SciRR 
Desk 


Class 

Book .   L  Q- 

Copyright  W.  


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


THE 


INGLENOOK 
COOK  BOOK 


New  and  Revised  Edition 


CHOICE  RECIPES 

Contributed  by  Sisters  of  the  Church 
of  the  Brethren,  Subscribers  and  Friends 
of  The  Inglenook  Magazine 


ELGIN,  ILLINOIS  : 

BRETHREN  PUBLISHING  HOUSE 

1911 


4 


Copyright,  1911. 
Brethren  Publishing  House,  Elgin,  111. 


(g,CU280530 


PREFACE. 


This  Cook  Book  originated  with  the  Inglenook  magazine  pub- 
lished by  the  Brethren  Publishing  House,  at  Eglin,  111.,  and  was 
first  issued  in  1901.  With  few  exceptions  the  recipes  were  con- 
tributed by  sisters  of  the  Brethren  Church  whose  names  and  ad- 
dresses are  given  in  every  instance.  From  the  time  the  first  copies 
were  distributed  nearly  ten  years  ago  the  book  has  been  exceedingly 
popular  with  cooks  and  has  enjoyed  a  wide  circulation.  Feeling 
that  the  popularity  as  well  as  the  helpfulness  of  the  book  might  be 
increased  it  has  been  revised,  the  work  again  being  done  by  the 
Inglenook  magazine.  Not  only  have  many  new  recipes  been  added, 
but  several  features  which  will  commend  it  to  the  practical  cook. 
While  many  of  the  recipes  and  suggestions  are  new,  not  having 
appeared  in  print  before,  no  special  claim  is  made  to  originality. 
The  chief  claim  made  is  that  the  recipes  have  been  tried  and  are 
recommended. 


INDEX  • 


PAGES 

Soups   7 

Fish,  Oysters  and  Game   19 

Poultry   19 

Meats    37 

Eggs   35 

Potpies,  Dumplings  and  Fritters   61 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  Dishes   79 

Breakfast  Dishes   •.   87 

Breads — Warm  and  Cold   97 

Vegetables   127 

Recipes  for  Fireless  Cooker  ,  160 

Salads  and  Sauces  167 

Shortcakes,  Custards  and  Puddings  187 

Pies   219 

Cakes   245 

Pickles   299 

Preserving  and  Canning  .-  321 

Ice  Cream  and  Drinks  339 

Candy   347 

Menus   355 

For  the  Sick   381 

Miscellaneous  407 


Soups  hold  an  important  place  in  our  bill  of  fare  and  when 
properly  made  are  appetizing,  nutritious,  easily  digested,  and  need 
not  be  expensive.  Soups  are  served  as  clear  and  thickened  soup. 
In  the  former  the  stock  is  served  plain  with  a  slight  flavoring  of 
some  vegetable  or  combination  of  vegetables.  In  the  latter  the  stock 
is  thickened  with  vegetables,  cereals,  or  some  form  of  paste  or 
dough,  such  as  noodles.  The  nature  of  the  rest  of  the  meal  should 
determine  the  kind  of  soup  to  be  served — clear  soup  with  dishes 
forming  a  heavy  meal  and  thickened  soup  with  accompaniments  of 
less  substance.  The  hock  or  shin  of  beef,  ends  of  rib  roasts  and 
portions  of  the  neck  or  shoulder  are  suitable  for  the  making  of  good 
stock  and  are  comparatively  inexpensive.  After  the  meat  and  bones 
are  put  in  a  kettle  and  cold  water  added,  they  should  be  put  over  a 
slow  fire,  so  they  will  not  come  to  a  boil  for  a  full  hour.  Then 
skim  carefully  and  after  boiling  a  few  minutes  the  fire  should  be 
further  reduced  or  the  kettle  pushed  back  so  that  the  contents  will 
simply  simmer.  They  should  cook  here  for  three  or  four  hours,  at 
least.  The  seasoning  should  not  be  added  till  after  the  meat  has 
cooked  two  hours.  When  clone  the  stock  should  be  strained  to  re- 
move small  pieces  of  bone,  etc.,  and  if  not  immediately  wanted 
should  be  cooled  and  the  cake  of  fat  left  on  top.  It  will  keep  better 
and  longer  if  left  in  this  way.  Of  course,  where  the  meat  is  of 
more  importance  than  the  stock  it  should  be  put  on  in  hot  water 
and  the  cooking  hastened  at  first.  Afterward  it  should  also  proceed 
with  a  slow  fire.  If  soup  is  oversalted  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and 
the  same  amount  of  sugar  will  aid  in  counteracting  the  taste.  The 
meat  from  the  soup  bones  may  be  used  for  hashes,  croquettes,  etc. 

7 


8 


SOUPS 


Asparagus  Soup. — Take  a  large  bunch  of  asparagus,  scrape 
it  nicely,  cut  off  one  inch  of  the  tops  and  lay  them  in  water.  Chop 
the  stalks  and  put  them  on  the  fire,  with  a  piece  of  bacon,  a  large 
onion  cut  up,  and  pepper  and  salt.  Add  two  quarts  of  water  and 
boil  till  stalks  are  quite  soft,  then  put  through  a  sieve,  strain  the  water 
to  it  and  put  back  into  the  pot.  Put  into  it  a  chicken,  cut  up  with 
the  tops  of  asparagus,  boil  until  done,  thicken  with  flour,  add  butter 
and  milk  and  serve. — Sister  Amy  V.  Furry,  Johnsville,  Md. 

Beef  Soup. — Take  8  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  enough  water 
to  dampen  the  flour;  rivel  with  the  hands  and  put  the  rivels  into 
fresh  beef  broth ;  add  a  little  salt.    Let  boil  five  minutes. — Sister 

H.  G.  Miller,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Bean  Soup. — Stew  1  pint  of  beans  until  tender.  Mash 
through  a  colander  to  remove  the  shells.  Add  to  \y2  quarts  of  ham 
broth,  and  let  boil  up.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smooth 
with  1  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Add  a  bit  of  parsley  and  season 
to  taste.  Serve  with  inch  squares  of  toasted  bread. — Sister  Ira 
Trostle,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Buttermilk  Soup. — Take  2  quarts  of  fresh  buttermilk ;  put 
it  in  a  3-quart  tin  pail.  Set  the  pail  in  a  kettle  with  1  quart  of 
water.  Keep  the  buttermilk  moving  to  prevent  "  cheesing."  Take 
a  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs,  J/2  cup  sugar,  and  smooth  with  about  a  pint 
of  cream.  Stir  this  into  the  hot  buttermilk,  stirring  carefully  till  well 
cooked ;  add  sugar  to  taste.  To  be  eaten  hot.  If  there  is  any  left 
over  try  eating  it  with  sweet  cream. — Sister  Maggie  E.  Harrison, 
Goneniaugh,  Pa. 

Carrot  Soup. — Scrape  and  slice  quite  thin  3  medium-sized 
carrots ;  boil  in  clear  water  20  minutes,  drain  carefully.  Then  add 
to  them  3  nicely  sliced  Irish  potatoes  and  1  finely-shredded  onion.  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  (red),  salt,  and  enough  water  to 
boil  all  tender ;  then  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk  and  a  small 
bunch  of  minced  parsley.  Serve  very  hot. — Sister  Jolm  E.  Mohler, 
Warrensburg,  Mo. 


SOUPS 


9 


Celery  Soup. — One  cup  of  diced  potato,  1  cup  of  chopped 
celery  and  one  small  onion.  Cook  until  very  tender,  almost  pulpy  and 
very  nearly  dry,  add  a  quart  of  rich  milk  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Salt 
added  to  the  vegetables  when  they  first  begin  cooking  improves  the 
flavor  of  a  soup  like  this. — Sister  Oma  Karn,  Covington,  Ohio. 

Celery  Soup. — Take  two  bunches  celery  cut  Jn  bits,  or 
chopped  fine,  cover  with  water  and  stew  until  tender.  Drain  off 
water,  add  1  quart  milk  (or  more,  as  desired),  salt  and  pepper  to 
suit  taste,  and  one  tablespoonful  butter  ;  also  add  a  scant  tablespoon- 
ful  flour  mixed  into  a  paste,  with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water.  Allow 
to  simmer  slowly  for  a  minute  then  serve  with  crackers  or  buttered 
toast. — Sister  Xannie  Byer  Xeivcomer,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Corn  Soup. — Put  on  a  little  water  in  pan  or  skillet  (so  your 
milk  will  not  burn  so  easily),  then  put  in  3  or  4  pints  of  good  sweet 
milk,  pepper  and  butter.  Add  one  can  of  corn  and  when  it  boils  once 
take  off  and  salt  to  taste.  Eat  with  crackers. — Sister  L.  Clanin, 
Hicksville,  Wash. 

Corn  Soup. — Boil  a  soup  bone ;  when  done  save  enough 
broth  for  the  soup  ;  put  in  a  pint  or  more  of  new  sweet  corn  which 
has  been  well  cooked ;  beat  1  egg,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
make  a  thin  batter ;  put  it  in  the  broth  and  corn ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  hot. — Sister  Eliza  Miller, 
Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Corn  Soup. — Take  1  quart  of  green  corn  and  put  it  on  the 
back  of  the  stove  with  2  quarts  of  hot  water.  Let  it  cook  gently 
one-half  hour,  then  put  it  where  it  will  cook  more  rapidly,  and  when 
the  corn  is  tender  put  in  1  pint  of  milk.  Season  to  taste.  Let  it  boil 
up,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  If  you  like,  after  removing  the  soup  from  the  fire,  you 
may  stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg,  beating  rapidly  to  prevent  curdling. 
—Sister  Alice  E.  Rigler,  New  Windsor,  Md. 


10 


SOUPS 


A  Good  Soup. — As  a  basis  a  piece  of  lean  meat  should  be 
procured,  the  larger  the  better.  Put  it  on  in  cold  water  and  allow  it 
to  simmer  with  plenty  of  wrater  till  it  is  done.  In  the  meantime  take 
equal  parts  of  thoroughly  well  cooked  potatoes,  beans  and  rice  so 
that  the  entire  bulk  of  the  vegetables  will  equal  one-half  the  amount 
of  broth.  Mash  these  vegetables  with  a  potato  masher  as  fine  as  they 
can  be  made.  Then  strain  .the  broth.  In  it  empty  your  mashed 
vegetables  and  set  on  the  stove  where  it  will  simply  simmer.  You 
must  stir  all  the  time.  No  cooking  is  required,  as  all  is  already 
cooked,  but  there  must  be  a  thorough  seasoning.  The  soup  may  now 
be  colored  to  suit  the  fancy,  salted  to  taste,  and  sufficient  catsup  or 
Worcestershire  sauce  put  in  to  give  it  a  pronounced  flavor.  The 
color  should  be  a  rich  brown,  and  the  flavoring  should  be  such  as  to 
make  it  a  very  savory  and  pleasant  compound. — Sister  Agnes  Mc- 
Dannel-Fahrney,  Elgin,  III. 

Soup  Without  Meat. — Take  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
fry  3  onions  in  this  till  soft,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
let  brown.  Add  next  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper,  2 
or  3  mashed  potatoes  and  lastly  1  quart  of  milk.  Let  come  to  a  boil 
and  pour  over  toasted  squares  of  bread. — Sister  Mollie  Zargcr, 
Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Chicken  with  Noodles. — Take  a  nice,  fat  chicken,  cut  in 
pieces,  and  cook  until  tender,  with  plenty  of  rich  broth.  About  nine 
o'clock  in  the  morning  make  a  dough  with  one  pint  of  rich,  sweet 
milk,  2  eggs,  a  little  salt.  Roll  thin  and  let  dry  until  dough  becomes 
brittle.  Cut  up  in  fine  strips  and  drop  into  the  broth  and  boil  only 
about  15  minutes. — Sister  Lydia  A.  Barnhart,  Ottawa,  Kans. 

Macaroni  Soup. — Break  into  small  pieces  2  ounces  of 
macaroni;  put  in  a  pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  let  cook  till 
tender.  Take  2  quarts  of  soup  stock  and  when  boiling  hot  add  the 
macaroni.  Cook  together  about  10  minutes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  very  hot. — Sister  Rose  E.  Smith,  Dunlap,  Kans. 

Noodles  with  Chicken. — Take  2  eggs  with  enough  flour  to 
mix ;  salt,  roll  thin  and  flour  both  sides ;  roll  up  and  cut  in  fine  slices, 


SOUPS  11 

then  shake  out  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them.  They  should  be 
made  at  least  an  hour  or  two  before  cooking.  Drop  in  with  chicken, 
and  cook  a  few  minutes. — Sister  Mary  Reddick,  Sheridan,  Mo. 

Noodles  Without  Meat. — Take  1  tablespoonful  of  water  to 
each  egg.  Add  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Use 
plenty  of  flour  in  rolling  and  cutting.  For  the  broth,  brown  well  a 
liberal  quantity  of  butter  in  the  kettle, — a  piece  about  the  size  of  an 
egg  for  an  ordinary  dish  full.  To  the  browned  butter  add  boiling 
water,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  the  finely-cut, 
dried  noodles  slowly  and  boil  slowly  about  20  or  30  minutes.  In  the 
winter,  especially,  it  will  be  found  convenient  to  make  a  large  amount 
of  noodles  at  one  time.  Dry  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  cool,  dry  place 
to  be  used  as  needed. — Sister  Nettie  C.  Weybright,  Syracuse,  Ind. 

Noodles. — Break  6  eggs  into  a  tin  cup  and  fill  the  cup  up 
with  water ;  add  a  little  salt  and  mix  flour  in  it  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
— Sister  D.  W .  Inman,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Noodles. — Beat  up  an  egg  and  add  about  the  eggshell  full 
of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  roll  out  as  thin 
as  possible ;  let  it  lie  an  hour  or  so  to  dry.  Then  dust  with  flour,  roll 
up  into  a  close  roll  and  cut  in  thin  strips.  Boil  in  meat  broth  for 
about  20  minutes. — Sister  I.  T.  Meyers,  Oaks,  Pa. 

After  you  have  your  noodles  mixed  ready  to  roll,  instead  of 
rolling  them,  run  them  through  your  meat  chopper. — Sister  Clara  E. 
Myers,  Waddams  Grove,  III. 

Another  Way  to  Make  Noodles. — Take  1  egg,  ^  of  a  cup 
of  sweet  cream  not  too  rich,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Make  a  stiff 
dough.  Cut  in  several  cakes.  Roll  very  thin  and  cover  with  flour. 
Cut  in  two  in  the  middle.  Turn  the  flour  sides  together.  Rub  it 
again  with  flour,  cutting  it  through  again,  making  it  as  small  as 
desired  for  the  length  of  the  noodle.  Now  cut  crosswise  ys  of  an 
inch  wide,  shaking  them  apart,  and  adding  a  little  more  flour  to  keep 
them  from  sticking  together.  Have  some  rich  broth  boiling  or  broth 
made  from  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Drop  them  in.  Boil  20  minutes. 
— Sister  Mary  V.  Ebersole,  Salem,  Oregon. 


12 


SOUPS 


Noodles. — Take  3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  y2 
teaspoonful  of  good  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  mix  a  stiff" 
dough  so  it  will  not  stick.  Roll  very  thin,  cut  in  long  strips  about 
\y2  inches  wide.  Lay  each  strip  on  top  of  the  other,  cut  down  the 
center,  lay  J/2  on  top  of  the  other,  the  square  ends  together ;  with  a 
sharp  knife  shave  very  thin  from  the  square  end  until  all  used  up. 
Any  good  fresh  meat  broth  will  do.  This  makes  enough  for  three 
persons. — Sister  A.  E.  Bonesteel,  Shcllsbnrg,  Iowa. 

Okra  Soup. — Take  y2  dozen  tender  okra  pods,  sliced  cross- 
wise, 1  onion  shredded,  3  good-sized  ripe  tomatoes ;  cut  into  small 
pieces ;  a  bit  of  red  pepper,  salt,  and  a  generous  piece  of  butter. 
Boil  all  together  until  very  tender,  in  fact  boil  all  to  pieces,  and  then 
add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk.  Serve  very  hot. — Sister  John  E, 
Mahler,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Onion  and  Potato  Soup. — Cut  up  1  pint  of  onions,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  let  cook  10  minutes. 
Then  pour  off  part  of  the  water  and  add  1  quart  of  diced  raw  pota- 
toes. Let  cook  till  well  done,  then  add  1  cup  of  cream  and  2  cups 
of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Let  boil  well  and 
serve.  It  will  need  no  thickening  if  it  is  well  cooked.  It  is  whole- 
some for  children  and  makes  a  good  supper  in  cold  weather. — Sister 
Alice  R.  Mohler,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Grandmother  Kline's  Potato  Soup. — Take  3  quarts  of  water, 
1  quart  of  potatoes,  1  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  the  rivels  made  of  two 
cups  of  flour  and  1  egg,  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  lard. 
Cut  the  potatoes  up  fine  and  cook  in  the  3  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Season  with  salt.  At  the  same  time  put  the  lard  and  butter  in  a 
skillet,  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  brown  well.  When  the  potatoes 
are  done,  stir  in  the  rivels,  cook,  and  lastly  stir  in  the  brown  bread. 
Cook  up,  then  take  off  the  fire  and  let  set  on  the  back  part  of  the 
stove  about  ten  minutes  before  serving. — Sister  Florence  Hays 
Kline,  Broadzvay,  Va. 

Potato  Soup. — Take  2  medium-sized  potatoes,  enough  water 
to  cover;  boil  until  tender;  do  not  drain.    While  cooking,  brown  1 


SOUPS 


13 


large  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  bit  of  milk.  When  the 
potatoes  are  done,  add  1  pint  of  milk;  salt,  pepper,  and  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  the  moistened  brown  flour  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.  Serve  with  bread  squares  toasted  in  butter. — Sister 
Charles  Schubert,  Alvada,  Ohio. 

Potato  Soup. — Put  1  gallon  of  sweet  milk  into  a  double 
boiler,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  Yi  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  1 
good-sized  onion  chopped  fine,  12  small  potatoes  cooked  done  and 
mashed  fine.  Serve  while  hot. — Sister  EfHe  I.  House,  Montserrat, 
Mo. 

Potato  Soup. — Take  2  small  teacupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes 
to  \y2  pints  of  water.  While  that  is  heating  mix  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  in  1  quart  of  rich  milk  (the  richer  the  better).  When  the 
potatoes  have  dissolved  stir  in  the  mixture.  Salt  to  taste.  Pepper 
if  liked.  Have  a  quick  fire  and  stir  constantly  to  keep  from  scorch- 
ing until  it  boils  well. — Sister  Fannie  Wampler,  Cerrogordo,  III. 

Potato  Soup. — Take  1  quart  of  sliced  potatoes,  1  gallon  of 
water,  1  pint  of  milk  or  cream — sour  cream  is  preferable — Yz  tea- 
cupful  of  butter.  Brown  flour  in  the  butter.  When  the  potatoes 
have  been  well  cooked  in  the  water,  add  the  cream  and  the  browned 
flour ;  season  to  taste  and  dip  on  thin  sliced  bread. — Sister  Mary 
Sanger,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Potato  Soup. — Take  4  large  potatoes,  pare  and  cut  into 
small  squares ;  boil  in  about  2  quarts  of  water  until  thoroughly  done ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  A  little  pars- 
ley added  greatly  improves  it.  Serve  with  crackers. — Sister  John 
S.  Smarts,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Sour  Potato  Soup. — Pare  and  sh.ce  potatoes,  put  in  a  stew 
kettle  with  water  enough  to  boil  them  quite  tender ;  add  butter  or 
meat  fryings ;  pour  in  a  little  good  vinegar ;  let  come  to  a  boil ;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Sister  Caroline  Nicholson,  Hillsdale,  Pa. 


14 


SOUPS 


Rice  Soup. — Boil  2y>  pounds  of  fresh  beef  and  bone  for  3 
hours  ;  lift  meat  and  skim  broth  well ;  add  to  the  broth  y2  cup  of  rice, 

1  grated  carrot,  1  cup  of  cabbage,  y2  cup  of  celery,  1  onion.  Chop 
cabbage,  celery  and  onion  up  fine,  cook  all  together  in  broth  until 
very  tender.  Make  a  batter  of  1  egg,  y>  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  this  slowly  into  the  stock,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  1  bay  leaf  and  2  sprigs  of  parsely. — Sister  Sadie  B. 
Swank,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Rivel  Soup  or  Farmer's  Rice. — Put  2  quarts  of  milk,  with 
a  pinch  of  salt,  on  the  stove  over  an  asbestos  mat  to  boil.  Take  2 
teacups  of  flour,  break  into  it  1  egg,  mix  with  the  hand  and  rub  into 
rivels ;  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.  Serve 
with  or  without  sugar. — Sister  Dessa  A.  Kreps,  Independence,  Ore- 
gon.— Best  in  spring  when  green  onions  are  in  use  to  eat  with  it 
and  pork. — Sister  David  H.  Frantz,  Bull's  Head,  Alberta,  Canada. 

Salmon  Soup. — Put  1  can  of  salmon  into  a  large  dish.  Take 
out  all  the  bones  and  mince  fine.  Then  take  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  2  quarts  of  good  rich  milk.  Heat 
to  the  boiling  point,  but  do  not  boil,  and  pour  over  the  salmon. 
Serve  hot  with  crackers. — Sister  Mary  Gish,  Rydal,  Kans. 

Sunday  Soup. — At  night  wash  a  pint  of  dried  beans,  place 
them  on  the  back  of  the  stove  in  a  porcelain  vessel,  with  2  quarts  of 
cold  water  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  In  the  morning,  when  they  have 
simmered  half  an  hour  or  until  breakfast,  pour  oft  the  water  through 
a  colander ;  return  beans  to  cooking  vessel ;  add  2  quarts  hot  water ; 
let  boil  until  nearly  done,  then  place  the  vessel  where  it  will  keep 
warm,  but  not  boil.  After  church,  visit  or  washing  (according  to 
the  day)  add  to  your  beans  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream ;  salt  to 
taste,  and  serve.  They  should  simmer  before  serving. — Sister 
Nancy  Under  hill,  Collar  an,  Colo. 

German  Tomato  Soup. — Chop  fine  1  medium-sized  onion, 

2  medium-sized  carrots,  1  small  head  of  celery,  and  add  to  1  quart  of 
tomatoes.  Stew  gently  for  one  hour.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
put  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds,  pressing  as  much  of  the  pulp 


SOUPS 


15 


through  as  possible.  Return  to  the  fire,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  and  a  generous  amount  of  butter.  When  boiling,  stir  in  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  moistened  with  water,  to  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Stir  till  boiling  and  serve  immediately.  This  is  excellent 
for  those  who  like  highly  seasoned  soup. — Sister  Grace  Hoi  singer 
Butterbaugh,  Elgin,  III. 

Grandmother  Strayer's  Tomato  Soup. — Take  1  quart  of  to- 
matoes, canned  will  do,  1  quart  of  hot  water,  1  quart  of  rich  new 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pound  of  oyster 
crackers.  Put  tomatoes  and  water  in  a  kettle  together;  heat  milk 
in  a  separate  vessel ;  when  all  are  very  hot  add  the  milk,  stirring  rap- 
idly ;  add  pepper,  butter  and  crackers,  and  last  of  all  season  just  right 
with  salt. — Sister  Nannie  H.  Strayer,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Tomato  Soup. — Place  over  the  fire  1  quart  of  peeled  to- 
matoes. Stew  them  soft,  with  a  pinch  of  soda.  Work  through  a 
sieve  so  no  seeds  remain.  Set  over  the  fire  again,  and  add  a  little 
sugar  to  suit  your  taste.  Then  add  a  pint  of  good  sweet  milk  with 
a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  it,  stirring  it  constantly  till  it 
boils.  Then  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Serve  hot  over  crackers.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used. — Sister 
S.  F.  Sanger,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Tomato  Soup. — Take  1  can  of  tomatoes  rubbed  through  a 
colander,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  few  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces, 
a  piece  of  celery  or  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  stew  slowly  in  a  crock  for  15  minutes,  then  add  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  moistened  with  ]/2  cup  of 
cream.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  immediately  with  crackers.  If  al- 
lowed to  boil  long  it  will  curdle. — Sister  Mary  E.  Tozvslee,  Colby, 
Kas. 

Tomato  Soup. — Put  in  a  skillet  1  quart  of  canned  tomatoes ; 
in  another  vessel,  2  or  3  quarts  of  milk.    Place  both  on  stove  and 
bring  to  a  boil.    Season  the  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
teaspoonful  soda,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk.  Eat 
with  crackers. — Sister  Annie  Bucher,  Astoria,  III. 


16 


SOUPS 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Take  1  calf's  head  ready  cleaned  and 
cracked ;  put  in  cold  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  let  boil  till 
soft,  then  take  the  meat  off  the  bones,  cut  fine,  strain  the  broth ;  add 
1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  marjoram,  1  teaspoonful  of  whole  allspice; 
let  all  come  to  a  boil ;  have  about  4  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  up  fine  in 
soup  tureen,  pour  soup  over  the  eggs.  If  there  is  not  enough  broth, 
add  boiling  water,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — Sister  Annie  E.  Evans, 
Lancaster,  Pa. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Boil  3  pounds  of  beef.  When  tender,  re- 
move from  the  broth ;  add  to  the  broth  one  small  head  of  cabbage  cut 
fine,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Let  boil  three-fourths  of  ah  hour, 
then  add  4  or  5  medium-sized  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  1  carrot,  2  medi- 
um-sized onions,  2  tomatoes,  and  1  or  2  ears  of  corn,  according  to 
size.  Let  cook  again  until  vegetables  are  tender. — Sister  Mandelia 
E.  Eaton,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Boil  a  beef  bone  or  any  kind  of  beef  to 
make  a  good  soup ;  when  done  take  it  out  of  the  broth  and  prepare 
by  scraping  and  paring  2  good-sized  carrots,  2  turnips,  2  onions,  2 
stalks  of  celery,  2  potatoes.  Put  all  in  a  chopping  bowl  and  chop 
fine,  then  add  it  all  to  the  broth  together  with  y2  cup  of  rice  and 
can  of  tomatoes. — Sister  Lucy  Magie,  Tropico,  Cat. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Boil  a  piece  of  beef  in  plenty  of  broth  un- 
til tender ;  when  done,  pour  off  the  broth  into  another  kettle ;  put 
to  soak  Yz  teacupful  of  navy  beans,  y'2  cup  of  rice,  or  change  the 
amount  according  to  the  size  of  the  family.  Then  take  equal  parts 
of  cabbage,  turnips,  and  potatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces ;  cook  till  ten- 
der, season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  all  together  into  the  broth  and 
cook.    Serve  hot. — Sister  Mary  Wallace,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Vegetable  Oyster  Soup. — Take  6  or  8  good-sized  salsify 
roots,  scrape  and  chip  off.  To  prevent  them  from  turning  dark, 
scrape  under  water.    Cook  in  just  enough  water  to  make  them  ten- 


SOUPS 


17 


der,  then  mash  with  potato  masher,  turn  y2  gallon  of  rich  sweet  milk 
in.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  as  for  the 
real  oyster.  $erve  hot  with  crackers.  This  is  a  splendid  substitute 
for  oysters. — Sister  Sarah  Minick,  Lyons,  Kans. 


18  soups 


In  all  ages  fish  has  been  considered  a  necessary  item  in  the  food 
supply  of  the  human  family.  It  furnishes  nitrogen,  mainly  in  the 
form  of  albumen  and  gelatine,  and  though  not  in  so  large  proportion 
as  meat,  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  a  nourishing  food.  As  a  rule 
very  large  fish  are  better  boiled  or  steamed ;  medium-sized  ones 
should  be  baked  or  split  and  broiled  and  small  ones  fried.  Dark- 
meated  fish,  being  richer  in  fat  and  higher  flavored,  should  not  be 
fried.  A  fish  is  in  good  condition  when  its  gills  are  a  bright,  clear 
red,  its  eyes  full  and  the  body  firm  and  stiff.  Soak  salt  fish  in  sour 
milk  to  freshen  them.  Pour  vinegar  over  fresh  fish  to  make  the 
scales  come  off  easily. 

Wild  meat  contains  a  much  greater  percentage  of  phosphates 
than  that  of  domesticated  animals,  and  much  more  lean  than  fat 
and  the  lean  is  of  greater  density.  It  is  therefore  a  strong  food  and 
if  well  digested  is  very  nutritious.  When  game  is  drawn,  prepara- 
tory to  cooking,  it  should  never  be  washed  on  the  inside,  but  merely 
well  wiped  with  a  clean  cloth.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  some  time  it  may 
be  rubbed  on  the  inside  with  salt  and  pepper  but  neither  should  be 
allowed  to  touch  the  outside  till  it  is  cooked. 

Creamed  Codfish. — Take  1  cup  of  codfish  after  it  is  freshened 
and  picked  fine  and  bones  removed.  Put  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little 
water  and  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  simmer 
gently  for  20  minutes,  then  add  1  pint  of  •rich  milk ;  let  come  to  a 
boil ;  thicken  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  .flour  moistened  with  a  little 
milk.    Serve  hot. — Sister  L.  H.  Funk,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

19 


20 


FISH,  OYSTERS  AND  GAME 


Codfish  Balls. — Take  2  quarts  of  potatoes  mashed  and  pre- 
pared as  for  the  table,  T/i  pound  of  codfish  boiled  and  freed  from 
bones ;  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Form  into  balls  and  fry  brown  in 
hot  lard  as  you  do  doughnuts. — Sister  C.  E.  Eckerle,  Chicago,  III. 

Deviled  Crabs. — To  the  meat  of  12  hard-shelled  crabs,  add  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  y2  wineglass  of  sweet  cream, 
yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  and  put  back  into  the  shells, 
sprinkle  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  small  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. — Sister  Agnes  E.  Snader,  New  Windsor,  Md. 

Fish  Balls. — Take  cold  fish  and  pick  into  small  pieces  or 
chop  fine ;  add  twice  as  much  mashed  potatoes  and  1  egg.  Mix, 
shape  into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  J  as.  F.  Thomas,  Ingle- 
wood,  Cat. 

Fish  Croquettes. — Take  1  pint  of  cold  flaked  fish,  1  pint  of 
hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  hot  milk, 
1  egg  well  beaten,  y$  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix 
the  fish  with  the  potatoes  and  then  add  all  the  other  ingredients. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cool,  make  into  balls 
and  dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Just 
before  serving  time,  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
at  once.  All  the  work  but  frying  can  be  done  the  day  before. — 
Sister  Myrtle  Holsinger  Julius,  Modesto,  Cal. 

Baked  Fish  with  Tomatoes. — Select  large  white  fish,  clean 
and  cut  in  pieces  suitable  for  serving,  season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Melt  a  little  butter  or  lard  in  a  dripping  pan,  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs,  then  lay  the  fish  in,  cover  with  more  cracker  crumbs, 
but  not  too  thick ;  put  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top,  then  pour 
over  the  whole  enough  canned  tomatoes  to  moisten  the  cracker 
crumbs.  Bake  1  hour. — Sister  Prudence  Miller,  New  Rock  ford,  N. 
Dak. 

Fried  Fish. — For  a  2  or  3  pound  fish,  split  lengthwise,  re- 
move backbone  and  cut  in  squares  of  convenient  size  for  serving; 


FISH,   OYSTERS   AND  GAME 


21 


wash  thoroughly  and  dry  with  a  towel;  salt  and  roll  in  flour;  fry 
briskly  in  very  hot  lard;  have  lard  at  least  y2  inch  deep  in  frying 
pan  to  prevent  burning ;  when  well  browned  on  both  sides,  serve  at  - 
once. — Sister  Susie  E.  Rush,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Boiled  Mackerel. — Select  good  mackerel,  one  that  the  brine 
has  not  been  allowed  to  get  strong  on  and  so  taint  the  fish,  soak  y2 
hour  in  cold  water,  then  put  on  the  stove  in  cold  water  and  allow  to 
come  to  a  boil  in  two  waters.  Let  boil  a  couple  of  minutes  in  the 
last  water,  then  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  drain  off  well.  Take  fresh 
butter,  brown  it  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Serve  hot. — Sister  Annie 
Rupert,  Maitland,  Pa. 

Breakfast  Mackerel. — Soak  mackerel  in  cold  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  put  on  the  stove  in  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  done.  Lift  from  the  pan  and  drain.  Make  a  dressing  of  y2  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  or  milk  and  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  parsley.  Boil  together 
and  pour  over  the  mackerel  and  serve  hot. — Sister  Susie  M.  Hout, 
Sharpsburg,  Md. 

Creamed  Oysters. — Rinse  one  pint  of  oysters  in  a  very 
little  water  and  drain.  Turn  them  into  the  oyster  liquor,  which 
has  been  strained  and  put  to  heat,  and  leave  till  edges  curl.  Remove 
and  keep  hot.  Sift  together  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and 
same  quantity  of  flour.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
brown.  Pour  in  gradually  one  cup  of  milk.  Cook  thoroughly  and 
add  oysters,  ^4  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cook  a 
moment  longer  and  serve  in  paste  patties. — Sister  W .  H.  Royer, 
Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Fried  Oysters. — Take  2  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
beat  together,  dip  the  oysters  into  the  batter,  roll  in  rolled  crackers, 
and  fry  in  hot  butter  until  brown.  Serve  hot. — Sister  Elisabeth 
Eckerle,  Flora,  Ind. 


22 


FISH,    OYSTERS   AND  GAME 


Oyster  Pie. — To  1  quart  of  flour  take  2  small  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  sift  two  or  three  times,  add  a  little  salt  and  1 
small  cup  of  butter,  mix  as  for  biscuit,  divide  into  2  parts  and  bake 
on  2  medium-sized  pie  plates ;  those  somewhat  shallow  are  the  best. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  bake  too  brown  or  they  will  be  too  crisp.  On 
1  of  these  put  the  oysters,  using  the  other  for  a  top.  Pick  over  the 
oysters  to  rid  of  any  shell  that  may  be  found,  drain  off  the  liquor, 
and  put  oysters  into  a  stewpan  with  barely  enough  of  the 
Kquor  to  keep  them  from  burning,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter ;  add  a  little  sweet  cream  or  milk  and  3  crackers  rolled 
fine.  Let  the  oysters  simmer,  but  not  boil,  or  they  will  shrivel.  Fill 
the  dish  with  the  oysters  and  gravy,  put  over  the  cover  and  serve 
hot. — Sister  J  as.  M.  Rowland,  Hagerstozvu,  Md. 

Oyster  Stew  in  Milk  or  Cream. — Drain  the  liquor  from  2 

quarts  of  oysters.  Mix  it  with  a  small  teacupful  of  hot  water ;  add 
a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  granite  saucepan ; 
let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  in  the  oysters  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil.  When  they  ruffle,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  when  melted 
and  well  stirred  in,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or  part  milk  and 
cream.  Take  from  the  fire  and  serve  with  oyster  crackers.  If  a 
plain  stew  is  liked,  add  boiling  water  instead  of  the  milk  and  more 
butter. — Sister  Martha  Smith,  Johnsville,  Md. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Prepare  a  quart  of  fine  cracker  crumbs ; 
butter  a  deep  pan,  put  first  a  layer  of  the  crumbs  on  the  bottom ; 
wet  this  with  some  of  the  oyster  liquor ;  next  have  a  layer  of  oysters 
sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  small  bits  of  butter,  then  an- 
other layer  of  crumbs  and  more  oyster  juice,  then  the  oysters,  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  and  so  on  till  the  pan  is  full,  the  top  layer  to  be 
crumbs.  Beat  an  egg  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over  all.  cover  the 
pan  and  bake  for  40  minutes  ;  when  done,  serve  very  hot.— Sister 
Rose  E.  Smith,  Dunlap,  Kans. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Have  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  well 
covered  with  butter,  then  cover  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and 
wet  them  with  cream  put  on  spoonful  by  spoonful,  add  pepper  and 


FISH,   OYSTERS   AND  GAME  23 

salt,  and  strew  with  small  bits  of  butter ;  next  put  in  the  oysters  with 
a  little  of  their  liquid,  pepper  them,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  among 
them  and  cover  with  dry  crumbs  until  the  oysters  are  entirely  hid- 
den; add  more  small  pieces  of  butter  very  thickly  on  top,  invert  a 
plate  over  the  oysters  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  ;  when  the  juice  bub- 
bles on  top  remove  the  plate  and  leave  on  upper  grate  for  2  or  3 
minutes  to  brown  on  top.  Serve  in  the  bake  dish. — Sister  Emma 
Newcomer,  Belleville,  Kans. 

Oysters  on  Toast. — Scald  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk  or  cream ;  add  1  pint  of  chopped  oysters ;  pour 
the  whole  over  toasted  bread  that  has  been  spread  on  a  platter  or  in 
a  shallow  dish. — Sister  Laura  Barklow}  Lordsburg,  Cat. 

Fried  Rabbit. — Skin  and  clean  rabbit  carefully,  cut  up  and 
let  lie  in  salt  water  over  night.  Drain  and  add  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  have  a  skillet  with  plenty  of  sweet  lard  hot,  roll 
the  rabbit  in  flour  and  fry  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides,  then  add  a 
teacupful  of  water ;  cover  and  let  cook  until  done. — Sister  Lora 
Roop,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Fried  Rabbit  (Free  from  the  strong  taste). — Cut  the  meat 
from  the  bones  in  slices  as  much  as  possible,  pound,  and  fry  like 
beef  and  your  friends  will  think  they  are  eating  veal.— Sister 
Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Baked  Salmon. — Take  y2  pound  can  of  best  salmon,  drain, 
remove  bones  and  skin,  mash  fine,  and  add  4  well-beaten  eggs,  12 
soda  crackers  broken  in  small  pieces,  \y2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  to- 
gether well  and  bake  in  well-greased  baking  dish  y2  hour  serve 
hot  with  sliced  lemon. — Sister  IV.  H.  Neher,  Inglewood,  Cal. 

Salmon  Croquettes. — Take  1  can  of  salmon,  remove  all 
bones  and  mash  fine.  Stir  into  this  2  eggs  and  five  rolled  crackers. 
If  it  seems  dry  add  some  water.  Put  in  also  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  make  into  small  cakes  and  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
butter. — Sister  Louie  Yiengst,  Division,  Kans. 


24 


FISH,    OYSTERS   AND  GAME 


Fried  Salmon. — Take  1  can  of  salmon,  2  cups  of  cracker 
crumbs,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk.  Mix  together  and  fry  in  a  little  butter 
and  lard. — Sister  Martha  Royer,  Dallas  Center,  la. 

Salmon  Roll. — Take  the  bones  out  of  1  can  of  salmon,  add 
1  cup  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  and  the 
juice  of  2  lemons.  Mix  all  together  and  make  into  two  rolls.  Roll 
them  in  a  piece  of  thin  cloth  and  steam  for  one  hour.  When  cool, 
slice  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  lemon.  This  is  very  nice  for 
lunches. — Sister  Myrtle  Holsinger  Jiriins,  Modesto,  Cat. 

Salmon  Loaf. — Take  one  can  of  salmon  mashed  fine,  1  egg, 
salt  and  pepper,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  and  1  cup  of 
rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  all  together,  form  in  a  loaf  and  steam. 
— Sister  Ethel  Mishler,  South  Whitley,  Ind. 

Scalloped  Salmon. — Take  canned  salmon  from  which  the 
bones  and  other  objectionable  parts  have  been  removed,  separate 
into  small  bits ;  put  into  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  dried  crushed  bread 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  salmon  with  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  little 
butter ;  fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  salmon  and  crumbs,  over 
which  turn  the  liquor  of  the  salmon.  Place  in  oven  and  bake, 
browning  a  little  on  the  top. — Sister  Maggie  Bolinger,  Rediield, 
Kans. 

Scalloped  Salmon. — Take  1  can  of  salmon ;  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  remove  all  bones.  Put  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  salmon  with  bits  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper;  then  another  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and  so  on 
until  the  salmon  is  all  used,  putting  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  on 
top ;  pour  milk  over  and  bake  a  nice  brown. — Sister  C.  E.  Eckerle, 
Chicago,  III. 

Salmon  Timbales. — Take  1  can  of  salmon,  remove  the  small 
pieces  of  bone  and  brown  skin  from  it  and  mash  fine,  adding  a  little 
salt.  Then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  rich  sweet  cream,  and  lastly  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of 


FISH,   OYSTERS  AND  GAME 


25 


the  eggs.  Place  in  well-greased  cups,  filling  each  about  half  full, 
and  put  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  until  they  are  a 
rich  brown,  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  When  done  shake  the  cups  vigor- 
ously for  a  few  moments  and  the  timbales  will  come  out  quite 
easily. — Sister  Hattie  Sellers  Frantz,  Beattie,  Kans. 

Baked  Shad. — Prepare  the  fish,  thoroughly  cleansing  the 
inside  from  as  small  an  opening  as  convenient ;  then  take  sufficient 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  butter  or  lard.  Mix  up  with 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  fill  the  fish  with  it ;  now  sew  it  up  or 
fasten  a  string  around  it;  put  it  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  over  it  a 
little  water,  some  butter  or  lard,  and  bake  same  as  a  fowl.  Bake 
from  1  hour  to  1%  hours.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  celery. — Sister 
Sarah  Guyton,  Burkittsville,  Md. 

Squirrel  Croquettes. — Dress  squirrel  ready  to  cook,  cook 
until  meat  will  fall  off  the  bones,  then  let  cool;  work  out  the  bones 
with  the  hands,  and  chop  meat  fine ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  sage ;  make  into  cakes ;  roll  in  corn  meal,  and  fry  in  butter. — 
Sister  Effie  I.  House,  Montserrat,  Mo. 

Salt  fish  are  best  and  quickest  freshened  by  soaking  in  sour 
milk. — Sister  Chas.  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 


FISH,    OYSTERS   AND  GAME 


Poultry  meat  is  not  as  nutritious  as  beef  and  mutton,  but  be- 
cause of  its  tenderness  and  flavor  it  furnishes  an  agreeable 
change  in  the  bill  of  fare.  All  kinds  of  poultry  and  meat  can  be 
cooked  quicker  by  adding  a  little  vinegar  or  a  piece  of  lemon  to  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled ;  a  piece  of  baking  soda  the  size  of  a 
pea  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  By  doing  this  a  tainted  fowl  will 
lose  the  bad  taste  or  odor  while  cooking.  One  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  will  usually  be  sufficient  for  desired  results.  Some  of  the 
oily  flavor  of  duck  may  be  removed  by  parboiling  it.  An  old  fowl 
should  be  steamed  or  parboiled  before  roasting  it,  the  stuffing  not 
being  added  till  it  is  ready  to  go  into  the  oven.  Giblets  of  a  fowl 
are  the  neck,  pinions,  gizzard,  heart  and  liver;  some  cooks  include 
also  the  head  and  feet. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Prepare  the  chickens  the  same  as  for  boil- 
ing, cut  in  two  through  the  back,  flatten  them,  place  on  a  cold  grid- 
iron over  a  nice  red  fire ;  after  a  little  time,  when  they  have  become 
thoroughly  hot,  set  them  on  a  plate  or  dish,  lard  them  well  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  chiefly  on  the  inside.  Then 
place  them  on  the  broiler  and  continue  turning  them  till  done.  They 
will  take  fully  20  minutes :  serve  hot  with  butter  and  plenty  of 
stewed  mushrooms. — Sister  Susie  M.  Brallier,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Creamed  Chicken. — Dress  and  joint  the  chicken,  if  it  is  an 
old  one,  boil  a  little  soft  and  then  take  out,  place  in  a  dripping  pan, 
cover  with  sweet  cream  and  a  little  of  the  broth  in  which  the  chick- 
en was  cooked;  add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter.  Set  it  in  the 
oven  to  cook,  and  by  the  time  the  cream  is  pretty  well  cooked  away 
the  chicken  is  done.  If  using  young  chickens  it  is  not  necessary  to 
boil  them. — Sister  Sadie  E.  Sollenberger,  Lemasters,  Pa. 

27 


28 


POULTRY 


Curried  Chicken. — Place  roasting  pan  on  the  stove  with  % 
cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed;  when  hot  put  in  the  chicken  pre- 
viously rolled  in  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  to  a  nice 
brown  quickly,  then  sprinkle  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  powder ; 
pour  in  boiling  water  until  the  chicken  is  almost  covered.  Put  on 
the  top  of  the  roasting  pan,  open  the  steam  escapes,  and  set  in  a 
hot  oven  until  the  chicken  is  browned  nicely.  It  should  be  turned 
once.  Make  gravy  and  serve  immediately. — Sister  Minnie  G.  Eby, 
Jacksonville,  Oregon. 

Chicken  Fricassee. — Cut  a  nice  fat  chicken  into  joints,  wash, 
and  put  in  a  pot,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  carefully  as  long  as  any  scum  arises.  Boil  until  well  done, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cook  y$  of  a  cup  of  flour  in  y2  cup  of 
butter,  stir  this  into  the  chicken  stock,  leaving  in  the  chicken. 
Toast  slices  of  bread,  cut  in  squares,  put  on  a  platter,  pour  the 
chicken  and  sauce  over  it,  and  serve. — Sister  Sarah  Trimmer,  Gosh- 
en, Ind. 

Chicken  Patties. — Stew  a  chicken  very  tender,  then  remove 
the  bones,  picking  the  meat  up  fine.  Save  about  half  of  the  broth, 
having  kept  the  chicken  covered  with  water  while  cooking.  Add 
the  meat  to  half  of  the  broth,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little 
flour  thickening,  so  it  will  not  be  too  thin.  Then  make  a  gravy 
with  the  other  half  of  the  broth  to  put  over  the  patties  when  served, 
or  they  may  be  a  little  dry.  To  make  the  shells,  make  a  rich  pie 
crust,  only  add  a  little  baking  powder,  say,  a  teaspoonful,  mould 
them  over  gem  tins  turned  upside  down  and  pick  with  a  fork. 
Make  covers,  cutting  with  a  cookie  cutter,  or  anything  the  size  of 
the  pattie.  Bake  a  light  brown,  fill  with  the  chicken  and  serve.  The 
patties  can  be  baked  any  time  and  set  to  the  stove  to  warm  when  de- 
sired to  use. — Sister  Emma  Newcomer,  Mount  Carroll,  III. 

Fried  Chicken, — Joint  the  chicken  and  soak  in  cold  water 
y2  hour ;  wash  and  drain  well ;  salt  and  immediately  roll  in  flour ; 
be  sure  to  make  all  the  flour  stick  to  it  that  will.    Have  the  skillet 


POULTRY 


29 


on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  butter  and  lard  {/  of  each),  having  it 
smoking  hot.  Put  in  the  chicken,  brown  it  a  nice  dark  brown,  turn 
over  each  piece  and  brown  well  on  the  other  side ;  when  all  is  well 
browned  pour  /2  pint  of  very  cold  water  in  and  keep  well  covered 
until  all  the  water  is  boiled  out.  The  steam  cooks  it  through  and 
makes  it  very  tender. — Sister  P.  G.  Feebler,  Jennings,  la. 

Fried  Chicken. — Take  young  chickens ;  split  them  open  on 
the  back  and  roll  in  flour ;  put  plenty  of  butter  and  lard  in  a  pan,  let 
it  get  hot,  put  in  the  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
slowly  until  done. — Sister  Jennie  Moore,  Duncansville,  Pa. 

Pressed  Chicken. — Carefully  dress  as  many  chickens  as  de- 
sired, cut  in  pieces  and  put  in  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  nicely.  Add  salt.  Watch  closely,  and  carefully  skim  off  all 
particles  of  scum  which  arise.  Boil  very  tender  and  until  broth  has 
been  reduced  to  about  one  pint.  Remove  bones  and  put  meat 
through  food  chopper.  Put  back  in  liquid,  season  with  pepper,  mix 
well  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  this  into  a  crock  and 
place  weight  on  top.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and  when  cold  it  is  ready 
for  use. — Sister  Lucy  F.  Lohman,  Turney,  Mo. 

Pressed  Chicken. — Stew  the  chicken  quite  soft,  also  let  it 
boil  almost  dry.  When  done,  pick  the  meat  off  the  bones  in  rather 
small  pieces.  Put  back  in  liquid ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.   Pour  all  in  a  mold,  under  press,  in  a  cool  place.    Eat  cold. — 

Sister  Lizzie  Warble,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Cold  Pressed  Chicken. — Take  2  chickens  (medium  fat  hens), 
boil  till  meat  is  very  tender ;  remove  bones,  hash  fine,  salt  to  taste ; 
hash  several  hard-boiled  eggs  with  the  chicken.  Soak  about  /  box 
of  gelatine,  add  it  to  the  broth,  which  should  be  reduced  to  1  pint. 
Stir  well  through  the  chicken ;  put  in  a  flat  crock  and  set  away  to 
cool.  If  made  right  it  can  be  cut  with  a  knife  in  several  hours.  It 
will  harden  much  quicker  on  ice.  The  gelatine  makes  it  firm. — 
Sister  Sarah  Witmore  Harnly,  McPherson,  Kans. 


30 


POULTRY 


Roasted  Chicken  with  Noodle  Soup. — Make  a  dressing  as 
follows :  Take  enough  stale  bread  without  crust  to  fill  the  chicken  ; 
grate  fine,  add  }i  cup  of  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley  to 
taste ;  beat  light  4  eggs,  add  y2  pint  sweet  milk,  mix  well  together ; 
fill  the  chicken;  cook  until  tender,  then  roast  it  to  a  nice  brown. 
Keep  out  enough  of  the  chicken  stock  to  cook  noodles  in. — Sister 
Kate  W .  Baughman,  York,  Pa, 

Roast  Chicken. — After  dressing  your  chicken  allow  it  to 
soak  in  cold  water  30  minutes.  Place  in  a  kettle  and  boil  until  ten- 
der, then  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
the  boiling  broth  of  the  chicken,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  cream,  and  a  little  parsley ;  place  in  the  roasting  pan,  put  in 
the  oven  and  bake  for  about  an  hour.— Sister  John  S.  Swariz,  Gosh- 
en, Ind. 

Stewed  Chicken. — Take  a  dressed  young  chicken,  cut  up 
into  parts ;  add  salt,  then  put  in  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover, 
boil  20  or  25  minutes  (if  an  older  one  boil  longer  or  until  the  wing  is 
tender).  Have  some  flour  mixed  with  water,  put  in  the  kettle  with 
chicken,  stir  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  serve.  Season  with 
pepper,  parsley  or  saffron  if  liked. — Sister  Katie  Geib,  Masterson- 
ville,  Pa. 

Butter  Dressing. — Cut  stale  bread  into  small  pieces  and  fry 
in  butter.  Keep  the  skillet  covered  and  fry  till  nicely  brown.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  on  hot  water  and  steam  a  few  minutes. — 
Sister  David  H.  Frantz,  Bulls  Head,  Alberta,  Can. 

Oyster  and  Cracker  Dressing  for  Fowl. — Break  the  crackers 
in  a  bowl,  pour  over  them  the  oysters,  and  the  liquor  from  them.  If 
not  moist  enough,  a  little  broth  from  the  fowl  may  be  used.  Stuff 
the  fowl  and  heap  the  remainder  around  it  in  the  roaster,  and  bake. 
— Sister  Mamie  Sink,  Lenox,  Iowa. 

Dressing  for  Turkey  or  Chicken. — Take  enough  bread  for 
10  persons ;  beat  light  4  eggs ;  brown  the  bread  crumbs  in  butter, 
just  a  light  brown,  put  in  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  and  sage  if  liked;  mois- 


POULTRY 


31 


ten  with  broth  from  turkey.  Have  plenty  of  broth  for  dressing  and 
gravy.  Put  dressing  in  broth  and  bake  Yi  hour  after  turkey  is 
roasted.  Make  the  gravy  after  the  dressing  has  been  taken  out. — 
Sister  Salima  Kimmel,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Dressing  for  Pair  of  Ducks. — Take  2  loaves  of  stale  bread, 
moisten  with  y2  cup  of  butter,  celery,  parsley,  or  sage  as  preferred ; 
add  salt,  pepper  to  taste ;  or  take  2  loaves  of  stale  bread,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  1  small  onion,  2  eggs ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  celery, 
parsley,  or  sage ;  or  let  a  cup  of  butter  get  hot,  add  the  stale  bread 
as  required ;  stir  until  quite  brown ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  the  dressing  in  the  fowl. — Sister  John  T.  Gray,  Baltimore, 
Md. 

Recipe  for  Dressing. — Take  3  pints  of  sweet  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  put  on  the  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  put 
in  bread  enough  to  thicken  the  milk ;  then  break  in  6  eggs.  Put  lard 
and  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  put  in  the  dressing  and  bake  a  light 
brown. — Sister  Kate  Howard,  Cambridge  City,  Ind. 

Roast  Duck  with  Dressing. — Clean  and  truss  a  duck  in  the 
usual  manner.  If  wild,  parboil  forabout  15  minutes  ;  if  a  tame  duck, 
this  is  not  necessary.  Rub  the  dressed  duck  thoroughly  inside  and 
out  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  place  in  a  roasting  pan.  Make  a 
dressing  of  Yz  cup  of  cold  boiled  mashed  potatoes  or  some  potatoes 
cut  into  small  pieces,  Yt.  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  medium-sized  onion 
shredded,  a  few  sprigs  of  sage  or  sweet  marjoram,  and  ]/i  cup 
finely-chopped  celery;  moisten  and  blend  all  together  with  thin 
cream,  adding  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stuff  the  duck  with  this, 
sew  up  the  vent  securely  and  roast,  frequently  basting,  until  well 
done.  If  5  minutes  before  removing  from  the  oven  you  dredge  the 
duck  lightly  with  flour  and  baste  thoroughly  with  butter  it  will  look 
better.  Some  people  like  chopped  English  walnuts  added  to  the 
dressing;  others  like  the  duck  filled  with  sauerkraut  that  has  been 
soaked  over  night. — Sister  John  E.  Mohler,  Warrensburg,  Mo, 


32 


POULTRY 


Roast  Goose. — Cut  the  head  off  the  fowl  and  slip  the  body 
into  a  narrow  vessel  to  keep  it  from  making  the  feathers  bloody. 
Next  cut  off  the  wings,  leaving  only  one  joint  on  the  body.  Have 
a  large  vessel  on  the  stove  in  which  are  at  least  5  gallons  of  water  at 
the  boiling  point ;  put  the  goose  in.  Hold  it  down  with  a  piece  of 
wood ;  turn  it  over  and  hold  it  down  a  short  time.  Try  the  feathers, 
and  if  they  come  out  easily,  take  it  out  and  wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  old 
carpet  or  heavy  cloth  to  steam,  as  the  heavy  coat  of  feathers  offers 
strong  resistance  to  water  or  steam.  After  awhile  try  whether  the 
feathers  will  come  off  clean  from  the  skin,  leaving  no  down.  If  so, 
pick  at  once.  If  the  scalding  is  not  complete,  put  it  in  the  water  as 
before.  After  it  is  picked,  singe  and  wash  it  in  soda  and  hot 
water ;  draw  and  lay  in  salt  water  over  night.  Next  morning  drain, 
and  fill  with  a  dressing,  made  the  same  as  turkey  dressing.  Put  in 
a  roasting  pan  half  filled  with  water  and  roast  at  least  4  hours,  un- 
less the  goose  is  known  to  be  very  young. — Sister  N.  J.  Roop,  War- 
rensburg,  Mo. 

Turkey  Fricassee. — Dress  a  fat  young  turkey  and  cut  in 
pieces ;  have  ready  in  a  kettle  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  have 
it  hot,  then  put  in  the  turkey,  and  let  fry  till  light  brown,  stirring 
occasionally  so  it  does  not  scorch.  When  brown  enough,  pour  on 
boiling  water  enough  nearly  to  cover;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  let  stew  till  tender,  then  have  ready  a  thickening  of  flour  and 
cream;  pour  in  and  let  just  come  to  a  boil;  serve  hot. — Sister  Katie 
Roesch,  Qiiinter,  Kans. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Dressing. — For  the  filling  take  2  quarts 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  4  eggs ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  parsley;  mix  all  together  with  1 
pint  of  milk.  Rub  1  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  the  turkey  and  put 
the  filling  in,  not  too  tight ;  sew  the  turkey  shut  and  place  in  roaster 
with  plenty  of  butter  and  lard.  Dressing:  Take  1  egg,  1  cup  of 
flour ;  stir  smooth  with  milk  or  water.  When  the  turkey  is  done  re- 
move from  roaster  and  put  water  in  the  pan ;  then  stir  in  the  thick- 


POULTRY 


33 


ening  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  in  a  separate  dish. — Sister  Car- 
rie Lang  ham,  Newry,-  Pa. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Dressing. — Dress  the  turkey ;  let  it  stand 
in  salt  water  y2  hour,  then  place  in  a  large  roaster ;  pour  4  pints 
of  boiling  water  in  roaster ;  salt  turkey  inside  and  out,  and  pepper 
if  desired ;  then  grease  a  clean  white  cloth  with  butter  and  place 
over  the  top  of  the  turkey,  lay  it  on  its  back  first  having  sewed  its 
legs  down,  and  tied  its  neck  shut.  The  strings  and  stitches  can  all 
be  taken  out  when  ready  to  put  dressing  in.  Place  in  a  slow  oven, 
let  bake  3  hours  if  a  large  turkey ;  add  more  water  if  needed,  then 
take  out  and  fill  with  the  following:  Take  5  pints  of  dry  bread 
crumbs,  add  \y2  pints  of  rich  milk,  4  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  water  off  the  turkey,  saving 
1  pint  for  gravy ;  add  the  chopped  giblets  (heart,  liver  and  gizzard) 
and  stir  well ;  fill  the  turkey,  placing  what  is  left  in  the  end  of  the 
pan ;  return  to  oven  and  let  stay  Yi  hour,  or  until  turkey  is  a  nice 
brown  and  dressing  done.  The  buttered  cloth  should  be  removed 
when  the  stitches  are  taken  out  and  another  spoonful  of  butter  put 
over  the  top  of  the  turkey. — Sister  Ida  W ampler  Mohler,  Leeton, 
Mo. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Oyster  Dressing. — Pick  and  draw  the 
turkey,  then  wash  in  3  waters,  adding  a  little  soda  to  the  last  water 
to  sweeten ;  dry  it  well  with  a  clean  cloth ;  then  tie  skin  over  neck, 
fold  the  wings  over  back,  tie  legs  down  tightly,  put  in  a  baker 
with  water  to  cover  and  bake  for  4  hours ;  sprinkle  with  flour  sev- 
eral times  while  baking;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Dressing: 
Take  1  gallon  of  bread  broken  in  small  pieces ;  first  cut  the  bread 
in  slices  and  let  dry  out  well,  then  put  it  in  a  crock,  pour  over  boil- 
ing water  enough  to  moisten,  cover,  let  steam  for  15  minutes;  then 
add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  quart  of  fresh  oysters,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  One  hour  before  the  turkey  is  ready  to  be  taken  from  oven, 
fill  turkey  with  the  dressing  and  let  bake  1  hour. — Sister  Mary  Ri- 
hard,  Altoona,  Iowa. 


34 


POULTRY 


Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey,  or  Chicken. — Take  1  pound  of 
veal  and  1  pound  of  lean  pork,  grind  fine,  put  into  a  frying  pan,  and 
cook,  stirring  so  that  it  will  not  burn.  Then  add  1  quart  of  bread 
crumbs.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  if  desired.  Moisten 
with  hot  water  or  milk.  Lastly,  add  2  or  3  eggs  and  stuff. — Sister 
Elmira  Bair,  Littleton,  Colo. 

Hot  Tamales. — Boil  a  chicken  until  tender ;  when  done  strip 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  chop  it  very  fine  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 
Have  ready  made  a  thick  paste  of  cor-nmeal  mush,  make  the  meat  into 
balls,  incase  each  one  of  them  in  the  corn  meal  paste  and  pack  into 
the  inner  husks  of  Indian  corn,  first  washing  these  in  very  hot  water. 
Tie  the  husk  securely  around  each  ball,  drop  into  the  boiling  liquor 
in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
very  hot, — Sister  Lydia  Stine,  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 


POULTRY  35 


36 


POULTRY 


Flesh  foods  contain,  in  condensed  form,  a  number  of  elements 
necessary  to  the  sustenance  of  the  human  body  and  are  much  used 
by  people  all  over  the  world,  though  these  same  essential  elements 
may  be  found  in  other  foods  outside  the  line  of  meats.  In  order  that 
one  may  derive  only  benefit  from  the  use  of  meat,  care  should  be 
taken  as  to  its  health,  freshness,  preparation,  etc. 

Few  people,  apparently,  know  that  the  parts  of  the  animal  that 
are  nourished  by  muscular  use  secrete  the  fla\*or  and  juices.  For 
example,  the  neck  and  forequarters  of  a  sheep  or  ox.  as  far  as  nu- 
tritious properties  are  concerned,  far  surpass  the  tenderloin  and 
other  more  expensive  cuts.  The  following  table  compiled  from  the 
"  Diaetetisches  Kochbuch  "  of  Dr.  YViel  will  give  the  cook  some  idea 
of  the  relative  value  of  certain  kinds  of  meat: 


Water 

Albumi- 

Fats 

Mineral 

-  noids. 

matter. 

76.5 

21.0 

1.5 

1.0 

72.5 

21.0 

5.5 

1.0 

Yerv  fat  beef  

 55.5 

17.0 

26.5 

1.0 

Medium  fat  mutton 

76.0 

17.0 

6.0 

1.0 

48.0 

15.0 

36.0 

1.0 

Lean  pork   

72.0 

20.0 

7.0 

1.0 

Fat  pork  

47.0 

14.5 

37.5 

1.0 

This  shows  that  there  is  no  economy  in  using  underfed  meat. 
Well  fattened  meats  are  not  only  the  most  economical,  but  they  are 
generally  the  best  flavored.    Much  of  the  value  of  meat  depends  on 

27 


38 


MEATS 


the  albumen  and  fibrine  contained  in  it,  and  since  both  of  these  be- 
come hard  and  indigestible  when  exposed  to  a  high  temperature  it 
follows  that  meat  should  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature  for  best 
results.  Apply  a  high  temperature  long  enough  to  sear  the  outside 
and  keep  in  the  juices,  then  finish  with  a  low  temperature,  allowing 
sufficient  time  to  thoroughly  soften  the  connective  tissues.  In  what- 
ever way  pork  is  cooked,  it  should  be  thoroughly  done. 

Beef  Balls. — Take  2  pounds  of  beef  well  ground,  add  1  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  1  cup  of  cracker  dust,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  a  lump 
of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste :  mix 
thoroughly,  mold  into  small  cakes  and  fry  slowly  in  butter. — Sister 
Ida  C.  Shunwker,  Mcycrsdalc ,  Pa. 

American  Chop  Suey   (For  one  dozen  people). — Take  4 

pounds  pork  cfliops,  15  cents'  worth  of  water  chestnuts  (Chinese  pota- 
toes), 1  can  Chinese  bamboo  ;  1  can  mushrooms,  5  cents'  worth  of 
onions,  10  cents'  worth  of  celery ;  season  with  Chinese  salt.  Chicken 
lobster  or  any  other  kind  of  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  pork 
chops.  Chop  all  up  into  small  bits.  Brown  the  bits  of  pork  in  hot 
lard  first,  then  add  the  rest,  stirring  constantly  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
— Brother  Moy  Wing,  Chicago,  III. 

Beef  Croquettes. — Take  1  cup  boiled  steak,  chopped  fine, 
Yz  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  teaspoonful  parsley  and  celery,  1  small 
onion  and  2  eggs.  Fry  in  hot  lard  in  ball. — Sister  Eldora  Thomas, 
Brighton,  Ind. 

Meat  Croquettes. — Take  2  cups  of  finely-chopped  meat,  1 
cup  of  boiled  bread  and  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Shape  croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  S.  S.  Bdrklow}  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

A  Breakfast  Dish. — Use  any  bits  of  cold  meat  chopped  fine, 
half  as  much  potatoes  boiled  with  the  skins  on,  the  same  amount  of 
bread,  broken  fine  ;  moisten  the  bread  with  hot  water.  To  1  pint  of 
the  mixture  add  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper ;  beat  all  together ;  fry 
brown  in  cakes. — Sister  Mary  Mineely,  Johnstozvn,  Pa. 


MEATS 


39 


Creamed  Dried  Beef. — Heat  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
pan  and  lay  thin  slices  of  the  beef  in  it,  adding  a  little  water ;  let  it 
steam  and  fry  until  nicely  browned;  a  sprinkle  of  sugar  over  the 
beef  helps  it  to  brown  better.  Then  stir  in  3  scant  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour ;  add  about  a  pint  of  rich,  creamy  milk ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  come  to  a  boil. — Sister  Anna  M.  Mitchet,  Newberg, 
Pa. 

Creamed  Dried  Beef. — Take  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  brown 
it  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  about  y2  pound  of  chipped  beef  and  let  get 
thoroughly  hot,  then  pour  in  1  cup  of  milk  and  thicken  with  1 
teaspoonful  of  flour.  Garnish  with  scrambled  eggs. — Sister  Kate 
M.  Markley,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Curried  Beef. — Take  2  or  3  pounds  of  moderately  lean  beef, 
cut  into  inch-square  pieces,  boil  in  clear  water  until  the  meat  is 
tender.  Cold  boiled  meat  will  also  do.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  a  skillet,  cut  into  this  very  finely  a  medium-sized  onion 
and  let  it  gently  simmer  without  browning  the  butter ;  then  add  to 
it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  enough  stock  to  make  a  thin  gravy, 
salt  to  taste  and  pour  over  the  cubes  of  meat ;  then  sprinkle  from 
Yz  of  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  to  as  much  as  desired  over  the 
whole  and  let  it  boil  up  thoroughly.  Serve  very  hot. — Sister  John 
E.  Mohler,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef. — Cut  into  fine  shavings  as  much  dried 
beef  as  desired,  fry  in  butter,  and  add  as  much  cream  as  may  be 
needed  to  thin  sufficiently.  Let  boil  a  moment.  Best  served  on 
toast. — Sister  Maud  O.  Fahrney,  Elgin,  III. 

Breakfast  Hash. — Take  scraps  of  beef  or  pork,  or  both  to- 
gether, cut  in  small  pieces ;  take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  small 
pieces ;  boil  meat  and  potatoes  together  in  just  enough  water  to  boil ; 
when  done  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. — Sister  Maggie 
Picking,  Buckeye,  Kans. 


40 


MEATS 


A  Good  Dish  for  Supper. — Take  scraps  of  cooked  meat  and 
chop  very  fine ;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  a  little  salt  and  enough  water  to  moisten.  Let  this 
stew  on  the  stove.  Then  take  pieces  of  stale  bread  and  toast  a 
light  brown,  placing  the  pieces  on  a  meat  platter  and  keeping  hot. 
Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  milk  until  quite- smooth,  and  pour 
in  the  stewing  meat,  mixing  thoroughly.  Drop  this  mixture  on 
each  piece  of  toast,  covering  it,  and  on  this  lay  a  second  layer  of 
toast,  covering  the  whole  with  the  mixture. — Sister  D.  L.  Miller, 
Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Hash  Balls. — Grind  2  parts  cold  beef  with  1  part  cold  po- 
tatoes to  a  hash;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  make  into  balls 
and  fry  in  hot  drippings. — Sister  Alice  Garber,  North  English.  Iowa. 

Mock  Duck.- — Take  a  round  beefsteak;  salt  and  pepper  both 
sides.  Make  a  bread  or  cracker  stuffing  as  for  turkey.  Place  the 
stuffing  on  the  meat,  roll  it  up  and  sew  together.  Put  in  a  pan  and 
roast  for  1  hour. — Sister  Josephine  Royer,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Baked  Beef  Heart. — Take  out  the  strings  from  the  inside. 
Some  cut  the  heart  open,  but  I  prefer  to  leave  it  whole.  Wash  it 
well;  rub  the  inside  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  it  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  bread  and  butter  moistened  with  a  little  water.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  liked  a  sprig  of  thyme  made  fine.  Sew 
up  the  opening  as  well  as  you  can  by  drawing  cords  across.  Rub 
the  outside  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  on  some  bits  of  butter,  then 
dredge  flour  over  it,  and  set  on  a  trivet  or  muffin  rings  in  a  drip- 
ping pan.  Put  a  pint  of  water  to  baste  with,  then  roast  in  a  hot 
oven.  Turn  and  baste  frequently.  The  time  to  roast  depends  on 
the  size  of  the  heart.  When  done  take  it  up.  Cut  a  lemon  in  thick 
slices,  put  in  the  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  dredged  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour.  Let  it  brown,  then  add  a  small  teacupful  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  it  smooth  and  serve  in  a  gravy  tureen. — Sister  Snsie  M.  Br  oilier, 
Johnstown,  Pa. 

Stewed  Kidney. — Take  1  or  2  kidneys  (the  amount  must 
depend  on  the  size  of  the  family),  chip  them  up  into  small  pieces, 


MEATS 


41 


being-  careful  to  take  out  all  the  insides,  soak  in  salt  water  a  few 
hours  or  over  night  if  suitable ;  drain  off  salt  water,  wash  well,  cook 
until  tender,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  if  needed,  and  a 
little  flour  dressing  made  the  same  as  for  chicken. — Sister  Susie  M. 
Brallier,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Baked  Liver. — Take  V/2  pounds  of  liver,  do  not  slice  but 
■use  in  one  piece;  cut  some  breakfast  bacon  in  thin  slices,  and  with 
a  clean  white  thread  tie  the  bacon  around  the  liver,  put  in  a  roast- 
ing pan,  cut  an  onion  over  it  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  ;  pour  in  water  and  roast  the  same  as  other  meat, 
about  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  S.  S.  B lough j  Batavia,  III. 

Fried  Liver. — Scald  liver  in  salt  water  for  about  15  minutes, 
then  slice  thin,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  a  nice  brown. — Sister  H.  Beaver, 
Burlington,  Wash. 

Liver  with  Bacon. — Have  ready  slices  of  bacon.  Take  thin 
slices  of  liver,  lay  on  a  platter,  pour  over  it  boiling  water ;  drain  off 
immediately,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour.  Put  the 
bacon  in  a  hot  frying  pan  and  fry  until  sufficient  fat  is"  fried  out  in 
which  to  fry  the  liver ;  then  add  liver  and  fry  both  together  until  well 
done  and  a  dark  brown.  Serve  immediately. — Sister  Mary  L.  Mil- 
ler, Cando,  N.  Dak. 

Liver  with  Onions. — Boil  a  dozen  medium-sized  onions  till 
done.  Fry  the  liver  till  done,  and  then  put  in  the  pan  with  the  liver 
the  boiled  onions,  and  fry  together  till  completely  cooked. — Sister 
Grace  Hileman  Miller,  Lordsburg,  Cat. 

Baked  Beef  Loaf. — To  2  pounds  of  chopped  beef  add  y2  cup 
of  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  cup  of  milk,  pepper  and 
salt,  also  cayenne  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Mix  well,  and  shape  into 
a  loaf.  Then  put  a  cup  of  fresh  sliced  tomatoes  in  the  baking  pan — 
place  the  beef  loaf  on  this  and  add  another  cup  of  tomatoes  on  the 
top  and  small  bits  butter  and  bake  Y\  of  an  hour. — Sister  Jos.  H. 
Johnson,  Royersford,  Pa. 


42 


MEATS 


Beef  Loaf. — Take  3  pounds  of  Hamburg  steak  and  1  onion 
chopped  fine;  add  1  large  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
egg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  thyme  (or  whatever 
flavor  is  desired)  ;  make  up  into  a  loaf  and  bake  1  hour;  baste  fre- 
quently.— Sister  Mary  S.  Geiger,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Beef  Loaf. — Take  2  pounds  of  finely-ground  beefsteak,  1  or 

2  beaten  eggs,  3  soda  or  6  small  crackers  rolled  fine,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  thoroughly,  form  into  a  loaf,  put  into  pan  with  a  little  hot 
water  and  small  bits  of  butter,  cover  and  bake  1  hour.  Before  quite 
done  remove  cover  and  let  brown. — Sister  G.  N.  Falkcnstcin,  Eliza- 
bethtown,  Pa. 

Beef  Loaf. — Take  2  pounds  of  raw  beef  and  J/2  pound  of 
pork  chopped  fine  and  thoroughly  mixed,  1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
(rolled),  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  add  salt  and  pepper.    Mix  and  bake  2  hours. — 

Sister  Naomi  Shaw,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Beef  or  Veal  Loaf. — Take  2  pounds  of  chopped  beef  or  veal, 
1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  2  eggs,  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk.  Mix  in  %  of  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  ]/\  cup  when 
it  is  in  the  pan  ready  to  bake.  Bake  \y2  hours. — Sister  P.  R.  Kelt- 
ner,  Rock  ford,  III. 

Beef  Roll. — Take  5  pounds  round  steak,  ground  fine.  Add 

3  cups  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  cracker  crumbs  rolled  very  fine,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  with  your  hand  (as  you  would  sausage). 
When  well  mixed  put  in  a  roaster  with  a  top  cover.  Put  bits  of  but- 
ter over  the  top,  and  bake  2]/2  hours. — Sister  Lucinda  Stutsman, 
Virginia,  Nebr. 

Roast  Beef. — Cut  beef  in  medium-sized  pieces,  put  in  roast- 
ing pan,  cover  with  cold  water;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  cover 
meat  with  flour ;  when  brown,  turn ;  baste  often.  When  it  is  soft  it 
is  ready  for  the  table. — Sister  Mary  Rozvland,  Astoria,  III. 

Swedish  Roast. — Take  about  2  or  3  pounds  of  round  steak 
\y2  to  2  inches  thick,  pound  as  much  flour  into  it  as  it  will  take, 


MEATS  43 

place  in  a  roaster  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  brown  on  both 
sides,  on  top  of  the  stove.  Chop  1  onion  fine  and  add  to  it  1  pint 
of  tomatoes  seasoned  to  suit  the  taste  and  pour  this  evenly  over  the 
top  of  the  meat.  Pour  1  pint  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  roaster, 
place  in  the  oven,  adding  more  water  as  needed,  and  roast  2^4 
hours. — Sister  Susie  McLellan,  Litchfield,  Nebr. 

Bread  Balls  with  Roast  Beef. — Take  scraps  of  bread,  crumb 
them  fine,  add  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  1  egg;  moisten  the  whole 
with  sweet  milk,  then  make  up  into  balls  and  lay  in  pan  with  beef 
roast,  with  rich  gravy. — Sister  Joseph  Amick,  Elgin,  III. 

Scrapple. — Boil  a  good-sized  soup  bone  until  the  meat  falls 
off  the  bone.  Remove  the  meat,  chop  fine  and  return  it  to  the 
liquor ;  season  it  with  1  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Let  boil  again  and  sift  in  corn  meal,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
is  the  consistency  of  soft  mush.  Cook  slowly  for  1  hour,  watching 
carefully,  as  it  scorches  easily.  When  cooked,  pour  into  a  greased 
oblong  tin,  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  brown, 
or  it  can  be  served  warm  without  frying. — Sister  Ida  Wagner  Hoif, 
May  wood,  III. 

Meat  Souffle. — Make  a  sauce  of  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  %  cup  of  milk,  V/2  teaspoons  salt 
and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper.  Add  ^4  CUP  of  cold  cooked  meat  (ham, 
beef  or  chicken),  chopped  finely  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Lastly 
fold  in  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm  and  nicely  browned. — Sister 
Myrtle  Blocher,  Greenville,  Ohio. 

Broiled  Steak. — Into  a  slightly-greased,  smoking-hot  pan 
put  the  steak,  which  has  been  pounded  and  trimmed  of  bone  and 
tough  tissue.  Salt  and  turn  from  side  to  side  as  it  browns.  When 
done  butter  well  and  serve  very  hot. — Sister  Lulu  N.  Miller,  Firth, 
Nebr. 


44 


MEATS 


Beefsteak. — Take  either  round  or  loin  steak,  having  it  at 
least  an  inch  thick.  Remove  the  bone,  and  cut  off  the  skin  on  the 
edge.  Remove  everything  that  cannot  be  eaten.  Then  if  thought 
necessary  give  it  a  good  beating  with  the  rear  edge  of  a  flat-iron. 
Turn  and  beat  and  cut  again  at  right  angles  till  the  entire  steak  is 
broken  in  fibre.  Cut  into  as  many  pieces  as  there  are  portions  to  be 
served.  Take  half  and  half  of  water  and  rich  milk  in  a  bowl.  Salt 
this  to  taste,  and  if  you  like  it  a  dash  of  catsup  or  Worcestershire 
sauce,  or  paprika,  to  taste.  Have  this  prepared  and  at  hand.  Some 
put  a  spoonful  of  flour  in  the  bowl  and  beat  it  in.  Now  put  the 
pan  on  the  stove,  in  it  put  some  of  the  fat  of  the  steak,  or  butter  will 
do,  and  let  this  pan  get  hot,  not  warm,  but  seething  hot.  Put  the 
plate  on  which  the  steak  is  to  be  served  in  the  oven  of  the  stove  to 
warm.  The  rest  of  the  meal  must  be  ready  and  all  other  things  pre- 
pared. Now  with  a  plate  of  butter  near  by  drop  the  pieces  of  steak 
in  the  smoking  hot  pan.  Turn  them  immediately,  and  keep  on  turn- 
ing them  throughout  the  whole  process.  After  turning  3  or  4  times 
put  thin  slices  of  butter  on  the  cooking  steak  as  you  turn  it  over. 
The  meat  must  be  so  cooked  that  it  is  a  crinkly  crusted  brown  on  the 
outside,,  and  juicy  within.  Then,  when  done,  whip  up  the  material 
in  the  bowl  with  a  fork,  and  pour  all  in  the  sizzling  hot  pan.  The 
moment  it  boils,  pour  into  a  clean  bowl  or  gravy  float  and  serve  all 
immediately.  Garnish  with  Saratoga  chips.  Each  guest  to  salt  the 
portion  served. — Sister  Agnes  McDamiel  Fahrney,  Elgin,  III. 

Breakfast  Steak. — Select  choice  steak.  Roll  cracker  crumbs 
to  dust,  beat  1  egg ;  dip  steak  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  cracker  dust ; 
fry  in  hot  suet. — Sister  L.  A.  Eshelman,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Take  1  pound  of  steak  from  the  round, 
or  1  pound  or  more  of  good  boiling  beef,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful. of  chopped  parsley,  or  finely-chopped  onion  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  mix  well  with  the  seasonings.  Melt  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan ;  cook  the  meat  until  a  nice 
brown,  then  pour  over  it  cupful  of  water  and  let  steam  for  a  short 
time.  This  is  more  healthful  than  when  simply  fried  in  round  cakes. 
—-Sister  Ida  Wagner  Hoif,  Maywood,  III. 


MEATS 


45 


Stewed  Beefsteak. — For  stewing  the  steak  should  weigh 
about  3  pounds  and  be  cut  V/2  inches  thick;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  lay  in  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of  butter  and  brown  on 
both  sides  over  a  brisk  fire ;  then  cover  with  brown  stock  or  water 
and  stew  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion  and  4  large  tomatoes 
cut  in  halves.  Cover  the  pan  closely  and  stew  gently  for  \y2  hours. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter. — Sister  Minnie  C.  Christopher,  Warrens- 
burg,  Mo. 

Swiss  Steak  (Delicious.) — Ask  your  butcher  for  V/2  pounds 
of  round  steak  cut  1  inch  thick.  Place  the  steak  on  your  meat  board, 
season  one  side  with  salt  and  pepper  to  your  liking  and  cover  thickly 
with  flour.  Then,  with  the  chopping  knife,  chop  lightly  all  over 
this  side  of  the  steak,  not  cutting  deeply.  When  chopped  sufficiently, 
turn  the  steak  over  and  treat  this  side  as  you  did  the  first.  Take 
part  butter  and  part  lard  and  place  in  frying  pan  and  make  very  hot. 
Into  this  place  your  beefsteak,  turning  it  once  a  minute  until  each 
side  is  a  golden  brown.  Then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  sim- 
mer one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove  to  a  platter  and  take  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  mix  with  milk  or  water,  and  pour  into  the  pan, 
stirring  briskly.  When  thick  enough,  place  in  a  gravy  bowl  and 
serve.  This  is  enough  for  a  family  of  five  or  six  persons. — Sister 
D.  L.  Miller,  Mount  Morris,  III. 

Brown  Beef  Stew. — Put  on  the  stove  a  rather  thick  piece 
of  beef  with  little  fat  (I  usually  use  a  piece  of  the  neck,  preferring 
the  second  cut)  4  hours  before  needed;  add  about  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  cover  with  close-fitting  lid  and  boil  gently,  adding  boiling 
water  as  needed  to  keep  from  burning,  so  that  when  the  meat  is  ten- 
der the  water  may  be  all  boiled  away ;  the  fat  will  allow  the  meat  to 
brown  without  burning ;  turn  and  brown  on  both  sides ;  take  up  and 
make  a  gravy  by  adding  flour  to  drippings  and  using  water  to  make 
it  the  consistency  of  thick  cream ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Salt 
should  be  added  to  the  meat  about  an  hour  before  it  is  done. — 
Sister  Minnie  C.  Christopher,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 


46 


MEATS 


Tender  Beefsteak. — Take  any  good  steak  and  chop  with  a 
knife  or  pound  it,  then  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in 
smoking  hot  lard  as  quickly  as  possible  without  burning.  That 
is  the  secret  of  tender  beefsteak.  When  fried  extra  well  so  no  water 
is  in  it  it  can  be  put  down  in  lard  and  kept  for  summer  use. — Sister 
L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Spanish  Stew. — Cut  1  pound  of  steak  into  small  pieces,  roll 
in  flour,  salt,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  with  1  chopped  onion.  When  done 
add  1  pint  of  water,  5  mashed  tomatoes,  2  Irish  potatoes  cut  fine  and 
3  seeded  green  peppers  finely  chopped.  Cook  slowly  until  done ;  salt 
and  thicken  with  a  little  brown  flour. — Sister  Mabel  Brenaman, 
Lordsburg,  Cal. 

Tripe. — Take  the  warm  beef  paunch,  cut  crosswise,  turn 
inside  out,  wash  thoroughly,  place  in  hot  water,  not  boiling,  and 
peel  out  the  inside  skin.  Then  cut  into  pieces  of  suitable  size,  soak 
in  salt  water  over  night  and  boil  eight  hours,  or  until  tender.  It  is 
then  ready  to  pickle  or  fry.  To  pickle :  Take  y  gallon  of  vinegar, 
1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  y2  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed.  To  fry :  Roll  the  pieces 
in  cornmeal  and  fry  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  lard  until  nicely 
brown.  Then  cover  with  sweet  milk  and  let  boil  until  a  nice  gravy 
is  made. — Sister  Nora  E.  Pctry,  Westminster,  Md. 

Boiled  Veal  Cutlets. — Take  six  even  veal  cutlets  from  a  good 
piece  of  the  lean  of  white  veal,  pare  and  flatten  slightly,  lay  on  a 
dish,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil ;  turn  the  cutlets  over  several  times,  then 
put  them  on  broilers  and  broil  8  minutes  on  each  side ;  remove  from 
fire,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  melted  butter  over  them,  garnish 
with  parslev  and  serve  very  hot. — Sister  Kate  Smith,  Charleston,  W. 
Va. 

Veal  Loaf. — Take  Sy2  pounds  of  minced  veal  (the  leg  is  best 
for  this  purpose),  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  grated  nutmeg,  4  rolled  crackers,  1  table- 


MEATS 


47 


spoonful  of  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  mix  these  together  and 
make  into  a  loaf,  roast  and  baste  like  other  meats. — Sister  G.  D. 
Z oilers,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Veal  Loaf. — Chop  very  fine  4  pounds  of  raw  veal  with  x/\ 
of  a  pound  of  ham ;  add  2  cups  of  cracker  crumbs,  4  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  enough  water  to  moisten.  Press  in  a  buttered  bread  pan 
and  butter  the  top ;  bake  1  hour. — Sister  Sarah  A.  France,  Hunting- 
ton, Ind. 

Lamb  Chops. — To  fry  lamb  chops  or  veal  steak,  beat  1  egg 
and  drop  meat  in,  then  roll  in  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — 
Sister  W .  G.  Lint,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Baked  Mutton. — Parboil  the  mutton  until  tender,  then  re- 
move from  kettle,  put  in  a  roasting  pan,  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 
— Sister  Annie  B.  Gaunt,  Crowson,  Tenn. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops. — Trim  off  all  superfluous  fat  and 
broil  on  a  gridiron  or  frying  pan  over  a  clear  fire ;  add  a  very  little 
pepper  and  salt  while  cooking;  butter  them  after  placing  them  on  a 
hot  dish. — Sister  Alice  Musselman,  Falls  City,  Nebr. 

Mutton  Stew. — To  1  pound  of  odds  and  ends  or  flanky  por- 
tions of  mutton,  chop  1  onion  very  fine,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
water  enough  to  boil  3  hours.  If  desired,  a  little  cream  and  flour 
may  be  added  when  ready  to  serve. — Sister  J.  D.  Teeter,  Rex,  Fla. 

Pot  Roast  Mutton. — To  a  medium-sized  roast  of  5  or  6 
pounds  put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  large  dinner  pot  and  drop 
in  the  mutton  early  in  the  morning  and  cook  slowly  without  cover ; 
when  almost  done,  remove  pot  to  back  of  stove  or  lower  the  heat 
and  brown  the  roast  in  its  own  juices ;  turn  over  as  it  browns  so  as  to 
get  a  nut-brown  all  over ;  add  salt  20  minutes  before  removing  from 
the  pot.  When  carefully  done,  remove  from  pot,  drain  off  all  grease, 
place  in  a  refrigerator  or  cool  place  and  serve  sliced  cold. — Sister 
Howard  H.  Keim,  Newbnrg,  Oregon. 


MEATS 


Bacon  and  Eggs. — Take  bits  of  either  boiled  or  fried  bacon, 
cut  fine  and  put  in  a  skillet ;  take  4  or  6  well-beaten  eggs,  pour  over 
bacon ;  when  heated  through,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper ;  stir 
together,  cook  till  done,  then  turn  without  stirring. — Sister  Lizzie 
Deardorff,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Fried  Bacon  and  Potatoes. — Cut  bacon  into  slices  of  an 
inch  thick  and  3  inches  long;  line  a  pan  with  the  slices.  Put  pared 
potatoes,  whole,  on  top  of  bacon,  pour  over  a  little  water,  set  on 
stove  and  fry  slowly;  then  when  fried  soft  and  brown,  pour  off  all 
the  fat,  and  add  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  The  bacon  usually  salts  the 
potatoes  enough;  add  a  little  pepper. — Sister  Barbara  Becker,  Mas- 
tersonville,  Pa. 

Head-Cheese. — Wash  as  many  hogs'  heads  as  you  wish, 
scrape  clean,  take  out  eyes,  put  in  kettle  with  sufficient  water  to 
cover  and  keep  water  over  the  top  till  the  meat  begins  to  drop 
from  the  bones ;  set  off  the  fire  and  let  cool.  When  cold  enough  to 
put  bare  hands  in  put  in  a  pan,  then  with  your  hands  take  out 
all  the  bones ;  to  each  gallon  of  meat  allow  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  sage,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  with  the  hands 
squeeze  all  up  together,  taking  out  all  the  lumps  that  will  not  mash 
up,  then  mold  in  dish  or  granite  pan  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  when 
cold  slice  in  thin  slices  and  serve. — Sister  Sarah  Hayes,  Rural, 
Oregon. 

Baked  Ham. — Cover  a  ham  with  cold  water  and  simmer 
gently  just  long  enough  to  loosen  the  skin  so  that  it  can  be  pulled 
off ;  this  will  probably  be  from  2  to  3  hours,  according  to  the  size 
of  the  ham ;  when  skinned  put  it  in  a  dripping  pan  in  the  oven ;  pour 
over  it  2  teacupfuls  of  hot  water,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  English  mustard;  bake  slowly,  basting  with  the  liquid 
for  2  hours;  then  cover  the  ham  all  over  to  the  depth  of  1  inch 
with  brown  sugar,  press  it  down  firmly,  and  do  not  baste  again  until 
the  sugar  has  formed  a  thick  crust,  which  it  will  soon  do  in  a  very 


MEATS 


49 


slow  oven.  Let  it  remain  in  the  oven  a  full  hour  after  covering  with 
the  sugar,  until  it  becomes  a  rich  golden  brown.  When  done,  drain 
from  the  liquor  in  the  pan  and  put  on  a  dish  to  cool ;  when  it  is  cool, 
but  not  cold,  press  by  turning  another  flat  dish  over  it  and  a  weight 
on  that.  The  pressing  makes  it  cut  firmly  for  sandwiches  or  slicing. 
Sister  C.  N.  Tombaugh,  Rodney,  Mich. 

Fresh  Boiled  Ham. — Soak  the  ham  in  very  salty  water  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  put  ham  on  to  boil  with  sufficient  cold  water 
to  cover ;  boil  it  until  tender,  remove  the  skin,  sprinkle  it  with  pep- 
per and  sugar;  place  in  slow  oven  till  a  nice  light  brown. — Sister 
Kittie  Forrer,  Stuarts  Draft,  Va. 

Fried  Ham. — Cut  ham  about  ]/2  inch  thick,  sawing  bone 
if  a  nice  large  slice  is  desired  ;  remove  the  rind  and  niche  the  edges 
of  fat  so  that  it  will  lie  flat  in  the  skillet ;  if  the  ham  is  very  lean  add 
a  little  butter  or  lard  when  frying  and  fry  quickly  but  thoroughly, 
turning  it  frequently  until  it  is  a  nice  brown ;  remove  to  a  hot  platter, 
pour  out  the  grease,  put  in  a  little  butter,  add  y2  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  1  cupful  of  rich  sweet  milk ;  stir,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour 
over  ham.  Some  prefer  parboiling  ham  a  few  minutes  before  fry- 
ing.— Sister  Emma  Spicklcr,  Polo,  III. 

Ham  and  Eggs. — Cut  ham  in  thin  slices  ;  put  2  or  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  have  very  hot  before  putting  in 
ham;  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Remove  ham  and  drop  in  eggs  while 
drippings  are  very  hot,  sprinkle  with  salt,  turn  quickly  or  shake  fry- 
ing pan  so  as  to  cook  whites  only ;  remove  quickly. — Sister  Mary  E. 
Needles,  Wayside,  Kans. 

Pork  and  Beans. — Remove  the  strings  of  ^  of  a  peck  of 
beans,  cut  into  pieces  about  1  inch  long,  put -them  into  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water ;  add  2  ounces  of  ham  and  boil  gently  1  hour ;  drain, 
remove  the  ham,  return  the  beans  to  the  saucepan ;  add  1  ounce  of 
butter,  1  gill  of  cream,  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper. 
— Sister  Ellie  M.  Zug,  Mastersonville,  Pa. 


50 


MEATS 


Potted  Ham. — Take  two  parts  of  boiled  lean  ham  to  one 
part  of  fat,  chop  very  fine,  then  season  as  you  desire.  Dissolve  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  gelatin  in  a  small  amount  of  water,  add  to 
the  meat,  put  into  a  pan  and  bake  in  an  oven  for  30  minutes.  Then 
press  and  set  away  to  cool. — Sister  /.  P.  Holsinger,  Mount  Morris, 
III. 

Fried  Pork  Steak. — To  1  pound  of  steak  take  1  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  half  as  much  lard ;  put  it  in  the  frying  pan 
and  heat ;  score  the  steak  until  perfectly  tender ;  have  2  eggs  beaten 
well,  into  which  drop  the  steak,  then  roll  it  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
then  put  it  into  the  hot  butter  which  has  been  slightly  browned ;  fry 
about  20  minutes,  or  until  it  is  a  crispy  brown  on  both  sides ;  keep 
the  pan  covered,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  or  two  of 
finely-ground  sage.  Take  the  steak  out  before  making  the  gravy. 
For  the  gravy  put  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into  the  pan,  stir- 
ring until  it  is  slightly  brown,  then  add  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  and 
1  cup  of  rich  sweet  cream;  season  to  taste. — Sister  E.  D.  Kendig, 
Stuarts  Draft,  Va. 

Pigs'  Feet  Souse. — Clean  the  feet,  put  on  to  boil,  season  with 
salt,  boil  until  tender ;  remove  all  the  bones  and  leave  the  meat  in  as 
large  pieces  as  possible ;  place  in  a  mold  and  pour  the  broth,  which 
should  be  boiled  down  so  that  it  just  covers  the  meat;  add  good 
sour  vinegar  enough  to  give  it  a  sour  taste,  season  with  black  pepper 
and  allspice ;  set  away  until  perfectly  cold. — Sister  C.  J.  Miller, 
Somerset,  Pa. 

Sausage  and  Dumplings. — Take  a  piece  of  sausage  and  1 
quart  of  thickly-sliced  potatoes,  put  in  a  kettle  with  about  3  pints  of 
water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  over  the  fire  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  drop  in  the  dumplings  which  are  made  as  follows: 
Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  egg,  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  little  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  enough  flour  to  make  the 
batter  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  stirred  with  a  big  spoon ;  drop  in  small 
spoonfuls  into  the  kettle,  sprinkle  parsley  all  through  them  and  over 


MEATS 


51 


it  all ;  cover  the  kettle  and  let  boil  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Have  a 
skillet  on  the  stove  with  some  browned  butter  in  it ;  dip  the  dump- 
lings out  in  the  butter  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. — Sister  Sarah  Mil- 
ler, Sabctha,  Kans. 

Roast  Spareribs. — Have  spareribs  washed  nicely,  lay  them 
on  a  steak  plate,  cover  with  filling,  then  lap  them  over  and  fasten 
with  wooden  pins ;  put  in  a  pan  to  roast ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  dredge  a  little  flour  or  cracker  dust  over  them  and  1  large  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  the  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Place  in  the  oven,  baste  fre- 
quently, and  when  a  nice  brown  turn  them  over  that  they  may  be 
an  equal  color  all  around.  Make  the  filling  with  2  ounces  of  onions 
(about  4  medium  sized),  and  1  ounce  of  green  sage  chopped  very 
fine ;  then  add  2  large  cupfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs  rubbed  up  fine, 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  and  2  eggs ;  mix  well  together. 
— Sister  Ida  C.  Shumaker,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Yetcamein  (A  Chinese  dish). — Stew  a  chicken  until  a  soup 
can  be  made :  add  noodles,  a  little  onion  cut  in  small  pieces  and  a 
little  shrimp.    Season  with  salt. — Brother  Moy  Wing,  Chicago,  III. 

Fresh  Meat  beginning  to  sour,  will  become  swreet  again  if 
placed  out  of  doors  over  night. — Sister  Chas.  H.  Broivn,  Omaja, 
Cuba. 


52-  MEATS 


MEATS 


53 


MEATS 


Because  of  their  palatableness,  wholesomeness  and  abundance, 
eggs  form  a  most  acceptable  and  considerable  item  in  our  list  of 
foods.  An  important  consideration  in  the  selection  of  eggs  is  their 
freshness.  Various  methods  are  used  to  determine  this.  In  appear- 
ance a  fresh  egg  is  rough  or  "  gritty  "  looking ;  if  shaken  it  will 
give  no  sound.  The  "  candling  "'  test  consists  in  looking  through  the 
egg  at  a  light,  or  holding  it  between  you  and  the  sun.  If  it  shows 
up  clear  and  spotless  so  that  the  yolk  can  be  perceived,  it  is  good; 
otherwise  not.  It  is  claimed  also  that  "  when  4  ounces  of  salt  are 
dissolved  in  40  ounces  of  water,  an  egg  a  day  old  will  sink  to  the 
bottom ;  one  two  days  old  will  nearly  reach  the  bottom ;  three  days 
old  will  float  near  the  top,  and  five  or  more  days  old  will  project 
above  the  surface  more  and  more  as  it  becomes  older." 

Baked  Eggs. — Take  a  dish  or  pan  in  which  you  serve  eggs 
on  table.  Put  butter  in  the  pan  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  melt  it. 
Then  break  in  the  pan  6  eggs,  and  pour  over  the  eggs  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  rich  sweet  cream.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  about 
5  minutes ;  longer  if  the  eggs  are  desired  harder,  and  less  if  softer. 
— Sister  H.  I.  Buechley,  Carlisle,  Ark. 

Battered  Eggs. — Beat  7  eggs  till  light;  take  8  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  make  into  a  batter  with  sweet  milk ; 
beat  both  together,  then  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  put  in  pans  and 
fry;  put  1  tablespoonful  of  grease  in  each  pan ;  put  enough  of  the 
batter  in  a  pan  so  as  to  be  y2  inch  thick  when  fried. — Sister  H. 
G.  Miller,  Bridge-water,  Va. 

55 


56 


EGGS 


Beauregard  Eggs. — Put  5  eggs  into  boiling  water  and  boil 
15  minutes.  While  these  are  boiling  make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  ;  S  pint  of  milk.  Mix 
flour  and  butter  then  add  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  some 
pepper.  Take  eggs  from  fire,  peel,  and  add  the  whites,  pressed 
fine  through  a  sieve  or  fruit  press,  to  the  sauce.  Then  put  sauce  over 
toasted  bread  on  a  plate :  but  yellow  through  press  and  put  over  the 
top.  Sprinkle  a  little  parsely  over  all  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — 
Sister  Mary  Hoerner,  Auburn,  III. 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs. — Take  clean,  fresh  eggs  :  place  them  in  a 
wire  egg  basket,  if  one  is  to  be  had  :  set  them  in  boiling  water  and 
allow  to  boil  about  4  minutes,  no  longer.  Serve  while  hot,  with 
buttered  toast. — Sister  E.  C.  Miller,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Creamed  Eggs. — Put  3  cups  of  morning  milk  in  a  bright  ves- 
sel, bring  to  boiling  point :  have  ready  and  add  broken  scraps  of 
light  bread,  crusts  preferred,  enough  to  absorb  about  half  of  the 
milk.  Then  break  6  fresh  eggs  into  the  mixture,  adding  a  small 
lump  of  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  all  together  and 
don't  cook  too  long. — Sister  Mary  H.  Ellenberger,  Turney,  Mo. 

Creamed  Eggs. — Take  one-half  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
cut  in  halves.  Make  a  white  sauce  as  follows :  Two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Melt  the  butter  and 
stir  in  the  flour,  then  add  slowly  y2  pint  of  milk.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  little  celery  and  vinegar,  if  desired.  Pour  over 
the  eggs  and  serve. — Sister  Clara  E.  Myers,  Wad  dams  Grove,  III. 

Fried  Eggs. — Break  eggs  separately  into  a  saucer,  and  put  all 
in  one  bowl.  In  a  hot  skillet  place  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  when  it 
is  slightly  brown,  pour  the  eggs  into  it.  Shift  the  yolks  if  neces- 
sary so  they  are  about  equally  distributed  in  the  skillet.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  cover  closely.  When  the  whites  are  firm  as  jelly  add 
a  spoonful  of  hot  water.  This  causes  the  steam  to  cook  all  white 
over  the  top. — Sister  Barbara  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Omelet. — Take  2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  2  eggs. 
1  small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  salt :  beat  together  the  flour,  milk  and 


EGGS 


57 


yolks  of  the  eggs ;  whip  the  whites  and  fold  into  the  mixture  just 
before  turning  it  into  a  hot  frying  pan  containing  enough 
butter  or  lard  to  cook  nicely.  "When  ready  to  turn,  cut  with  a 
knife  in  quarters,  turn  carefully  and  cover,  allowing  room  to  rise. 
Serve  immediately. — Sister  S.  Z.  Sharp,  Fruita,  Colo, 

Omelet. — Take  6  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  1  cup  of 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt :  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately ;  mix  the 
flour  with  the  milk  and  salt,  add  the  yolks,  then  the  beaten  whites  ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Annie  M.  Whitmore,  Quincy,  Pa. 

Omelet. — Take  6  well-beaten  eggs,  y2  pint  of  milk,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  turn  into  a  well-buttered  frying  pan  :  lift  edges  gently 
from  the  pan  while  cooking :  cut  like  a  pie  after  it  has  thickened ; 
turn  and  fry  a  minute  longer,  and  serve. — Sister  Mary  E.  Toi^'slee, 
Colby,  Kans. 

Omelet. — Take  S  eggs,  reserve  whites  of  5.  beat  light:  for 
each  egg  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  salt  to  taste ; 
pour  all  into  a  hot.  well-buttered  skillet:  fry  slowly  while  beating 
whites  of  reserved  eggs  very  light :  pour  the  latter  over  the  con- 
tents of  skillet  and  set  it  in  the  oven :  bake  to  a  delicate  brown ;  then 
turn  one-half  over  the  other  half  and  serve  immediately. — Sister 
Faiinie  Hershbergcr,  Waterloo,  Iowa. 

Omelet. — Take  2  eggs.  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  1 A  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well  with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk:  put 
into  a  skillet  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  when  hot  pour  in  the 
batter  :  as  it  browns  lift  from  bottom  with  knife  :  continue  this  proc- 
ess till  thoroughly  cooked. — Sister  Grandma  Johnson,  Redfield, 
Kans. 

Omelet. — Beat  6  eggs  together  until  very  light,  pour  half  the 
beaten  eggs  into  a  teacup  and  to  the  remainder  add  2  large  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour :  mix  until  a  smooth  batter,  then  return  the  eggs 
from  the  teacup  :  mix  again  and  add  2  cups  of  sweet  milk  and  a 
little  salt :  fry  half  at  a  time  in  a  skillet  with  a  little  butter  and  meat 
drippings  until  a  delicate  brown  on  the  underside. — Sister  Mary 
Snowberger,  Leeton,  Mo. 


58  *  EGGS 

Baked  Omelet. — Take  4  eggs ;  beat  the  yolks  and  add  2/$ 
of  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  add  them  last.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  a  few  minutes  till  a 
nice  brown. — Sister  Annie  R.  Stoner,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Pickled  or  Creamed  Eggs. — Boil  12  eggs  about  8  minutes, 
peel  and  cut  lengthwise ;  lay  on  the  platter,  yolks  up.  Then  boil 
y2  cup  of  sour  cream  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y  teaspoonful 
of  ground  mustard,  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  this  over  the  eggs.  Good 
hot  or  cold,  the  butter  may  be  omitted. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicks- 
ville,  Wash. 

Pickled  Eggs. — Boil  eggs  y2  hour,  then  place  them  in  cold 
water  so  that  the  shells  may  be  easily  removed.  Put  them  into  a 
jar  and  cover  with  vinegar  in  which  red  beets  have  been  previously 
pickled;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  After  allowing  them  to  re- 
main in  this  liquid  for  24  hours,  they  will  be  ready  for  use. — Sister 
J.  E.  Keeny,  Natchitoches,  La. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Cheese. — Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  frying  pan  and  when  melted  add  1  cupful  of  rich  milk;  when 
hot,  break  in  4  eggs,  sprinkle  generously  with  grated  cheese ;  lift 
on  buttered  toast,  pour  milk  over  them  and  serve  immediately. — 
Sister  Minnie  G.  Eby,  Jacksonville,  Oregon. 

Egg  Pudding. — Take  5  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt  \y2  pints  of  sweet  milk,  5  eggs.  Put  flour  and  salt  in  a 
large  bowl,  add  about  half  of  the  milk,  and  stir  it  into  a  batter,  then 
add  the  eggs  and  beat  well ;  put  in  the  balance  of  the  milk,  mix 
well.  Have  a  skillet  hot  with  butter  and  lard  melted  in  it,  pour  in 
the  batter;  as  it  bakes,  lift  the  edges  with  a  knife  until  all  of  it  is 
set;  then  place  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  finish  baking. — Sister  Susie  For- 
ney Puterbaugh,  Kidder,  Mo. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Take  6  eggs,  beat  well,  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk.  Stir  all  together  well, 
fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 


EGGS 


59 


Shirred  Eggs. — Put  butter  in  a  pan  as  for  frying  eggs,  but 
not  quite  as  much;  when  warm,  break  in  the  eggs,  and  to  each  egg 
take  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  put  in  the  oven  and  bake. — Sister  Emma  Newcomer,  Lanark, 
III 

Steamed  Eggs. — Heat  a  pan  not  hot  enough  to  brown  butter  ; 
grease  the  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  put  in  the  eggs,  pour  a 
little  boiling  water  around  the  edge  and  cover  with  a  hot  lid  for  a 
few  minutes.  Season  to  taste  when  served. — Sister  D.  F.  Kelley, 
North  Georgetozvn,  Ohio. 

Stuffed  Eggs. — Boil  the  eggs  hard  ;  when  cold,  take  off  the 
shell  and  cut  the  eggs  in  halves ;  remove  the  yolks,  then  put  in  a 
bowl  and  mix  very  fine,  adding  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  vinegar,  a 
little  mustard  may  be  added  if  desired;  when  all  are  well  mixed,  fill 
up  the  hollows  with  this  mixture,  and  stand  on  a  platter,  and  serve. 
— Sister  John  E.  Gnagey,  West  Milton,  Ohio. 

Eggs  on  Toast. — Toast  as  many  pieces  of  bread  as  there 
are  guests.  See  that  the  toasting  is  a  light  brown,  and  thoroughly 
well  done.  Then  butter  on  one  side.  Take  these  pieces  of  toast 
and  put  on  a  plate  with  hot  milk  in  it  and  allow  them  to  absorb 
what  they  will  without  turning,  while  the  eggs  are  being  poached. 
Salt  the  toast  slightly.  Take  twice  as  many  fresh  eggs  as  there  are 
pieces  of  toast,  and  poach  them  in  water  that  is  boiling  hot,  but  not 
boiling  when  the  eggs  are  dropped  in.  If  the  water  boils  it  will 
break  up  the  eggs,  and  if  only  kept  near  the  boiling  point  will  jelly 
the  eggs.  When  done  put  on  the  toast,  2  to  each  piece,  and  serve 
hot.  Garnish  if  desired. — Sister  Agnes  McDannel  Fahmey,  Elgin, 
III. 


60  EGGS 


These  are  all  rich  dishes  and  judgment  should  be  used  as  to 
when  and  to  whom  the  dishes  are  served.  In  each  case  one  runs 
more  or  less  risk  of  having  her  efforts  result  in  a  mess  of  indigest- 
ible dough  and  great  care  and  skill  are  therefore  needed  to  insure 
success.  Steamed  or  baked  dumplings  and  baked  potpies  are  as  a 
rule  more  wholesome  than  boiled.  Never  allow  the  water  or  broth 
to  stop  boiling  while  dumplings  or  potpies  are  in  the  kettle.  In 
making  fritters  do  not  have  the  batter  too  thick  or  they  will  be  too 
brown  on  the  outside  before  the  inside  is  done.  The  lard  should  be 
kept  at  boiling  heat.  While  frying,  handle  the  fritters  with  a  skim- 
mer or  split  spoon,  as  a  fork  stuck  into  them  would  cause  them  to 
absorb  grease.  Serve  immediately ;  they  become  heavy  after  stand- 
ing awhile.  Some  kinds  of  fritters  may  be  served  as  dessert  with 
a  suitable  pudding  sauce,  or  they  may  be  served  with  powdered 
sugar  or  syrup. 

Baked'  Noodles. — When  the  noodles  are  made,  cut  fine  as 
for  soup;  stew  and  drain.  Put  in  a  bake  dish,  one  in  which  they 
may  be  served;  add  milk  and  butter,  and  season  to  taste.  Bake 
until  nicely  browned  on  top.  Serve  hot.  Some  think  noodles  must 
be  dried  before  using,  but  that  is  not  necessary. — Sister  Grace 
Gnagey,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Potpie. — Make  a  short  pie  crust,  roll  in  sheets  and  bake  a 
crisp  brown,  break  in  pieces,  and  pour  chicken  or  beef  gravy  over 
it  and  serve.  The  beef  gravy  is  improved  by  adding  an  egg  to  the 
flour,  milk  or  water. — Sister  Alice  Garbcr,  North  English,  Iowa. 

61 


62 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Potpie  Dough. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  sour 
cream,  a  pinch  of  soda  and  salt  to  taste.  Do  not  mix  too  stiff  with 
flour. — Sister  Eveline  Skiles,  Rossville,  Ind. 

Baked  Potpie. — Take  V/2  pints  of  sour  milk,  y2  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teacupful  of  lard,  make  a  stiff 
dough  and  roll  y2  inch  thick,  put  in  a  pie  pan;  have  fresh  beef  or 
pork  cooked,  cut  it  in  small  pieces ;  put  one  layer  of  meat  on  the 
dough,  a  little  pepper  and  broth ;  cover  with  dough  y2  inch  thick ; 
bake  to  a  light  brown;  serve  with  broth. — Sister  H.  G.  Miller, 
Bridgewater,  Va. 

Beef  Pie. — Take  2  pounds  of  choice  beef,  cut  in  pieces  about 
as  large  as  an  egg,  1  pound  of  liver  cut  into  pieces  half  as  large. 
Soak  liver  well,  then  parboil  the  beef  and  liver  together,  drain  the 
liquor  off,  parboil  some  potatoes  in  it.  Then  make  a  rich  biscuit 
dough,  line  a  medium-sized  bread  pan,  put  in  the  beef,  liver,  potatoes 
and  6  hard-boiled  eggs  "  cut  half  in  two."  Then  drop  in  a  few 
dumplings  of  the  crust,  pour  on  the  liquor,  and  put  on  upper  crust. 
Pierce  the  crust  in  a  few  places  to  let  out  the  steam,  and  bake. — 
Sister  Lillic  G.  Ycaront,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Baked  Chicken  Potpie. — Cut  up  and  stew  slightly  a  couple 
of  young  and  tender  chickens,  but  don't  cook  them  soft.  Make 
a  crust  with  flour,  lard,  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder,  same  as  for 
pie  crust,  but  not  quite  so  short.  Roll  out  the  crust  and  line  a  bak- 
ing pan,  put  in  the  chicken  and  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter  (the  more  butter  the  better).  A  handful  of  thyme 
or  parsley  cut  fine  and  sprinkled  over  helps  it.  Cover  with  crust 
and  then  pour  the  chicken  broth  over  the  top  so  that  it  will  not  get 
too  dry  while  baking.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — Sister 
Anna  M.  Mitchel,  NewUirg,  Pa. 

Chicken  Potpie. — Boil  1  large  chicken  until  tender,  turn  it 
out,  have  a  few  potatoes  sliced,  and  put  in  the  bottom  for  boiling, 
lay  the  chicken  over  these.  Make  a  crust  as  follows :  Take  1  quart 
of  flour,  a  piece  of  lard  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


63 


baking  powder,  both  rubbed  well  into  the  flour ;  beat  1  egg  well,  add 
milk  to  egg  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  stir  into  the  flour  with  a  knife ; 
roll  out  ^2  inch  thick  and  cut  in  squares  or  rounds,  lay  these  on  top 
of  the  chicken,  pour  the  gravy  over  boiling  hot ;  cover  tight  and  do 
not  disturb  until  well  done ;  keep  boiling  fast  about  Yi  hour. — 
Sister  Agnes  E.  Snader,  Nezv  Windsor,  Md. 

Chicken  Potpie. — Boil  a  good  fat  chicken  quite  tender.  Then 
take  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  (the  richer  the  better)  and  y2  cup 
of  butter.  Make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  very  thin,  cut  in  small  squares. 
Drop  in  the  broth  and  let  boil  10  minutes.  You  may  think  this 
would  be  a  "  sad  "  mess,  but  try  it  and  you  will  be  surprised. — Sister 
Nannie  Neher,  Hudson,  III. 

Chicken  Pie. — Dress  and  cut  in  pieces  a  young  chicken  and 
pare  8  or  10  potatoes,  slice  J/2  an  inch  thick,  add  butter,  salt,  parsley, 
and  pepper  to  suit  taste ;  put  in  a  deep  dish  lined  with  a  dough 
made  same  as  pie  dough,  only  adding  some  baking  powder ;  bake  1 
hour. — Sister  Mahala  St  oner,  Aultman,  Ohio. 

Chicken  Pie. — Sauce :  Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  rubbed  together,  1  cup  of  milk  and  3  cups 
of  warm  broth.  Crust :  Two  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  2  teaspoonfuls  shortening,  1  egg  beaten  light  and  1  cup 
■  of  milk.  Put  all  together  and  beat  with  a  spoon.  Cook  the  chicken 
until  it  falls  off  the  bones,  then  put  it  in  a  pan,  pour  the  sauce  over 
it  and  spread  the  crust  on  top  with  a  spoon.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
— Sister  Efhe  Coif  mam,  South  English,  Ohio: 

Chicken  Potato  Pie. — Pare  potatoes,  cook  soft,  mash,  put 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  cream,  parsley,  1  egg  ;  stir  well.  Take  flour, 
1  egg,  salt,  lard,  baking  powder,  sweet  milk.  Make  dough,  like  pie 
dough,  not  so  short;  roll,  cut  in  pieces  7  inches  square;  put  2  spoon- 
fuls of  the  potatoes  on  one  half  of  the  dough ;  turn  the  other  half 
of  the  dough  over  and  make  moon  pies.  Take  the  broth  of  the 
cooked  chicken,  put  your  pies  in  and  boil  20  minutes.  This  is  one  of 
our  harvest  dinners. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa. 


64 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Dressing  Potpie. — Cook  a  nice  fat  chicken  till  tender  in 
plenty  of  broth.  For  the  dressing,  take  1)4  pints  of  bread  crumbs, 
put  in  a  pan  and  fry  till  brown  with  plenty  of  butter;  beat  2  eggs 
well,  pour  y2  pint  of  milk  over  the  eggs,  pour  this  over  the  crumbs, 
and  stir  well,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  parsley  also  if  you  have  it. 
For  the  dough  take  y2  pint  of  water,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  lard,  1 
teaspoonf ul  of  baking  powder,  make  stiff  enough  to  roll ;  make  it  in- 
to 4  cakes  and  roll  out  thin ;  fill  1  side  of  the  cake  with  the  dressing, 
cover  the  other  side  over  and  press  edges  together  firmly.  Remove 
chicken  from  pan ;  drop  the  half  moon  pies  in  and  let  boil  20  min- 
utes.— Sister  Anna  W]ampler,  Harrisonburg,  Va. 

Fruit  Potpie. — This  can  be  made  of  canned  or  fresh  fruit 
of  any  kind ;  if  apples,  pare  as  for  pies ;  cherries  should  be  pitted. 
For  the  dough  sift  together  1  quart  of  flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  add  lard  size  of  a  hulled  walnut,  pinch  of  salt,  1 
pint  of  lukewarm  water.  Roll,  cut  in  squares ;  butter  the  bottom  of 
your  cook  kettle,  put  in  some  fruit,  sprinkle  sugar  and  a  little  flour 
over  it,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter,  then  your  dough,  and  so  on  until  all 
is  in ;  then  put  on  stove  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  on  it  to 
cover  nicely  and  not  burn  it.  Boil  20  minutes  or  till  done.  Serve 
with  sweetened  milk  and  a  little  cream  mixed. — Sister  Sarah  A. 
Crozvl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 

A  Good  Potpie. — Boil  any  kind  of  meat,  and  when  done  lift 
out,  then  take  1  quart  of  flour  in  a  dish,  dip  boiling  broth  on  the 
flour,  just  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  then  roll  thin  and  cut  in 
squares ;  have  1  pint  of  thinly-sliced  potatoes,  some  finely-chopped 
parsley,  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste ;  put  potatoes  and  paste  in  lay- 
ers in  the  remaining  broth  and  boil  about  15  minutes. — Sister  Ida 
M.  Benner,  Duncansville,  Pa. 

Ham  or  Irish  Potpie. — Take  a  ham  bone  after  the  meat  is 
pretty  well  used,  then  boil  till  tender ;  slice  2  or  3  good-sized  pota- 
toes ;  take  out  the  ham  bone  and  put  in  the  potatoes,  let  cook  while 
making  dumplings.   Take  about  3  pints  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


65 


a  rounding  tablespoonful  of  shortening,  mix  together  with  water, 
roll  out  as  thin  as  pie  crust ;  cut  in  any  desired  shape  and  drop  into 
the  broth  with  a  sprinkle  of  black  pepper. — Sister  M.  C.  White- 
scl,  Wayside,  Wash. 

Healthful  Potpie. — Take  3  pints  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  have  1  quart  of  milk  boiling  hot ;  pour  the  milk  over  the  flour 
and  stir  it  to  a  smooth  batter ;  let  stand  until  cool,  then  use  plenty 
of  flour  to  roll  out  the  dough;  roll  just  a  little  thicker  than  pie 
crust,  cut  in  squares  ;  have  some  good  meat  broth  boiling  hot,  drop 
the  squares  into  the  boiling  broth,  boil  a  few  minutes. — Sister  S. 
D.  Royer,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Meat  Pie. — Use  any  left-over  meat ;  turkey,  steak,  roast 
meat,  or  even  some  pork  would  be  good.  Cut  the  meat  into  small 
oieces  and  make  a  rich,  plentiful  gravy  over  it.  The  pie  is  best 
made  in  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  in.  Fill  the  dish  half  full  of  meat 
and  gravy  and  cover  with  a  dough  made  with  flour,  salt,  baking 
powder  and  sweet  cream,  using  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  to  1 
pint  of  flour,  or  if  sour  cream  is  used,  use  about  T/\  teaspoonful  of 
soda  also.  Have  the  paste  Yz  inch  thick  when  rolled  out. — Sister 
Allie  Mohler,  Cando,  N.  Dak. 

Fresh  Pork  Pie. — Boil  fresh  pork  and  potatoes  until  quite 
tender.  Bone  the  pork ;  make  crust  not  as  short  as  usual  pie  dough. 
Put  in  large  pan  or  earthen  dish,  fill  in  with  meat  and  potatoes, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  cover  with  pie  dough.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
A  little  baking  powder  and  sweet  milk  added  to  shortening  and  flour 
make  the  crust  crisp  and  brown. — Sister  J.  G.  Royer,  Mt.  Morris, 
Til. 

Shepherd's  Pie. — For  using  left-over  mutton  this  is  excel- 
lent. Mince  cold  mutton,  season  with  chopped  parsley  or  onions  if 
preferred,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  moisten  with  gravy,  put  in  a 
pie  dish  and  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  mashed  potatoes.  Smooth 
the  top  over  with  a  knife  and  brush  with  milk.  Bake  one-half  hour 
and  serve  hot. — Sister  Amy  V.  Furry,  Johnsville,  Md. 


66 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Meat  Pie. — Thoroughly  boil  3  pounds  of  meat.  Lift  the 
meat  from  the  broth,  of  which  there  should  be  a  pint  or  more.  Slice 
an  onion,  brown  in  butter  a  golden  tint,  add  to  broth.  Throw  5 
medium-sized  potatoes,  sliced,  in  boiling  water,  when  nearly  done 
drain  and  set  aside.  Take  a  quart  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  lard  size  of  unhulled  walnut,  and  water.  Make  a  dough 
and  line  small  dripping  pan.  Take  half  the  meat,  cut  in  slices, 
place  in  pan  with  potatoes  and  bits  of  dough.  Add  the  broth ;  see 
all  is  properly  seasoned  and  cover  with  top  crust.  Bake  an  hour. 
Bits  of  cold  meat  may  be  used  if  you  have  the  broth. — Sister  Galen 
B.  Royer,  Elgin,  111. 

Rouzer  Potpie. — ;Dress  a  nice  fat  chicken  and  cook  till  nearly 
done  in  plenty  of  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  quart  of  sliced 
potatoes.  They  will  cook  enough  in  20  minutes.  Kave  ready  a 
nice  short  paste,  like  good  pie  crust,  about  as  much  as  would  make 
5  pies.  Lift  the  chicken  and  potatoes  out  in  a  dish.  Line  a  pan  or 
skillet  with  the  dough,  or  part  of  it.  Lay  in  a  few  pieces  of  chick- 
en and  some  of  the  potatoes,  then  some  strips  of  dough,  and  so 
on,  alternately,  until  full,  sprinkling  in  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
butter  y2  as  large  as  an  egg.  Pour  in  some  of  the  broth  and  cover 
with  top  crust,  cutting  a  few  places  to  let  out  steam.  Put  in  the 
heated  baker  to  cook,  still  filling  in  more  broth  to  keep  it  juicy. 
Bake  y2  hour. — Sister  Susan  Rouzer,  New  Paris,  Pa. 

Virginia  Potpie. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  salt, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  about  Y\  of  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  in  strips  about  an  inch  wide  and  3  inches  long. 
Bake  in  hot  lard  the  same  as  doughnuts.  Have  a  fat  chicken  boiled 
till  tender,  remove  and  roast  with  dressing.  Make  a  thin  gravy  as 
with  stewed  chicken.  Place  the  cakes  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  them,  and  they  are  ready  for  the  table. — Sister  Effie 
Wiggs,  Pyrmont,  Ind. 

Yankee  Potpie. — Stew  a  good,  fat  chicken  until  tender. 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


67 


Make  plenty  of  gravy  with  milk  thickened  with  enough  flour. 
Season  to  taste.  Bake  a  good  shortcake,  rolled  thin,  break  in  pieces 
and  drop  in  the  gravy  just  before  serving. — Sister  Eliza  J.  Englar, 
New  Windsor,  Md. 

Snitz  and  Knep. — Cook  1  pound  of  smoked  breakfast  bacon, 
in  1  piece,  2T/2  hours.  Put  a  quart  of  dried  szveet  apples,  with 
plenty  of  water,  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  they  will  simmer 
gently.  Sweet  apples  are  usually  dried  with  the  skin  left  on.  When 
the  meat  has  cooked  1  hour,  put  the  apples  in  with  it  and  let  them 
cook  together  another  hour.  For  the  knep :  Take  3  cups  of  flour, 
2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  break  into 
this  2  eggs,  and  use  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop 
the  batter  by  spoonfuls  upon  the  apples ;  when  apples  are  covered, 
replace  the  lid  and  let  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  drop  in  more  batter, 
and  so  on  until  all  the  batter  is  used.  Boil  for  20  or  30  minutes, 
and  be  sure  there  is  sufficient  water  in  the  boiler  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing.— Sister  R.  E.  Arnold,  Elgin,  III. 

Snitz  and  Knep. — For  a  small  family  take  T/2  pound  smoked 
bacon,  or  1  pound  smoked  ham,  wash,  put  on  the  fire  at  9  o'clock. 
Soak  y2  pint  dried  sweet  apple  snitz  with  or  without  paring.  At 
10  o'clock  put  the  snitz  in  with  the  meat,  when  soft,  take  \y2  pints 
of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Stir  well  together, 
using  enough  water  or  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  on 
top  of  snitz  and  meat  and  boil  15  minutes  without  uncovering. — 
Sister  Chloe  Goughnour,  Middlebranch,  Ohio. 

Snitz  and  Knep. — Put  on  a  piece  of  bacon  to  cook  about  9 
o'clock,  also  put  some  dried  sweet  apple  snitz,  with  the  paring  on, 
in  water  to  soak.  About  10  o'clock  put  the  snitz  in  with  the  bacon. 
Then  take  some  flour,  2  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  mix  with  sweet  milk,  stir  to  a  batter.  Take  out  the 
bacon,  put  a  small  handful  of  sugar  on  the  snitz  and  drop  the  batter 
in  by  the  spoonful.  When  done  take  out  and  serve  while  hot. — 
Sister  Fannie  Bucher,  Astoria,  III. 


68 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   ANW3  FRITTERS 


Snitz  and  Knep. — Take  3  handfuls  of  dried  sweet  apples  and 
soak  in  water  3  hours.  Then  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
hen's  egg.  For  the  knep :  Take  a  large  teacupful  of  buttermilk,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt;  thicken  with  flour  until 
a  little  stifter  than  cake  batter.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until 
thoroughly  done. — Sister  Joannah  Mason,  Clarksville,  Iozva. 

Snitz  and  Knep. — This  is  to  be  made  only  on  bread-baking 
day.  Soak  1  pint  of  dried  apples  for  2  hours,  then  place  in  a  kettle 
with  a  pound  of  smoked  ham,  or  shoulder,  not  too  old,  and  boil  for 
\y2  hours.  Take  from  your  raised  bread  dough  a  sufficient  quantity 
to  make  at  least  1  fair-sized  bun  for  each  of  your  family.  Work 
into  this  1  egg;  leave  it  rise  awhile,  then  work  out  in  tiny  cakes; 
leave  them  rise  until  quite  light,  then  gently  drop  them,  1  at  a  time 
into  the  kettle  with  the  meat  and  "  snitz."  Let  them  boil  for  20 
minutes,  when  all  will  be  ready  to  serve.  Do  not  lift  the  lid  before 
the  20  minutes,  unless  you  want  heavy  and  soggy  biscuits.  In  eat- 
ing them  they  are  good  when  covered  over  with  the  broth  they 
have  been  boiled  in,  or  spread  with  jelly,  preserves,  or  apple  butter. 
— Sister  Jennie  Kinsey,  Boyd,  Ohio. 

Snitz  and  Knep. — Take  1  quart  of  dried  apples  and  soak 
them  2  hours.  Then  take  meat  broth  and  boil  the  snitz  till  soft ; 
then  make  the  batter  as  given  here :  2  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  this  in 
when  the  broth  is  boiling.  Boil  15  minutes. — Sister  Eldora  Thomas, 
Warrensbnrg,  Mo. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Pare  and  quarter  apples,  place  in  ves- 
sel with  plenty  of  water,  when  boiling  make  a  biscuit  dough,  roll  out 
the  size  of  kettle. or  vessel,  lay  on  top  of  apples  and  let  boil  rapidly 
for  15  minutes;  keep  covered  tightly  and  do  not  remove  cover  till 
done ;  when  done,  cut  the  dumplings  in  quarters  and  remove ;  serve 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND   FRITTERS  69 

immediately  with  rich  milk,  sweetened. — Sister  Ella  Stutsman,  Clay- 
ton, Ohio. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  l/2  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  out,  cut  in 
squares ;  into  each  square  put  1  small-sized  quartered  apple,  pinch 
dough  all  around  it  tight,  drop  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  let  boil  ^4 
hour,  take  out,  serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister  Elizabeth 
Eckerle,  Flora,  Ind. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Take  1  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  lard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  roll  out  thin,  cut  in  pieces 
large  enough  to  cover  each  apple;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister 
Lottie  Taylor,  Spring  City,  Pa. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  dough  same  as  for  biscuit,  only 
a  little  shorter ;  roll  out  the  dough  and  cut  in  pieces  large  enough  to 
hold  1  pared  and  cored  tart  apple ;  wrap  the  apple  in  these  pieces 
and  fasten  the  edges  securely,  bake  1  hour  or  boil  %  of  an  hour.  If 
baked,  place  in  the  oven  and  after  baking  5  or  10  minutes  make  a 
syrup  of  1  pint  of  water  and  1  teacupful  of  sugar;  pour  this  over 
them  and  baste  while  baking.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister 
Katie  Moore  Strickler,  Ivester,  Iowa. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — Pare  and  halve  a  dozen  good  tart 
apples  of  'medium  size.  For  the  crust,  take  3  pints  of  flour,  Y\  of  a 
cup  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  When  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  add  sweet  milk 
to  make  it  the  consistency  of  pie  crust.  Roll  out  rather  thin,  cut 
in  squares,  place  the  apples  thereon  and  make  the  dumplings.  Grease 
a  pan  well  with  butter  and  place  the  dumplings  in.  A  few  bits  of 
butter  scattered  over  the  dumplings  will  improve  them.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  Serve  with  sugar  and  milk. — Sister  Anna  M. 
Mitchel,  Newburg,  Pa. 


70 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — Pare,  halve,  and  core  8  medium- 
sized  apples ;  make  enough  pie  crust  for  2  pies,  divide  into  8  parts, 
roll  out  thin,  set  1  apple  on  each  crust,  fill  center  full  of  sugar  with 
a  small  pinch  of  cinamon,  roll  crust  up  over  each  apple,  then  set 
dumplings  in  a  dripping  pan :  fill  the  pan  with  water  to  half  cover 
dumplings,  set  in  oven  and  bake  slowly  to  avoid  burning  till  apples 
are  soft  when  pierced  with  a  fork.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream. — 
Sister  Sarah  Hayes,  Rural,  Oregon. 

Rolled  Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  rich  baking  powder  bis- 
cuit dough,  roll  out  in  a  thin  sheet,  cover  thickly  with  chopped  apples, 
roll  up  compactly,  then  cut  in  slices  about  two  inches  thick.  Place 
in  a  well  greased  pan,  not  too  close  together,  and  pour  over  the 
following:  Mix  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  1  cupful  of  sugar, 
add  1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  stirring  until  it  boils  and  thickens 
smoothly.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Bake  and  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. — Sister  C.  D.  Bonsack,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Steamed  Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  nice  short  dough  as  for 
baking  powder  biscuit.  Roll  out  in  small  round  pieces  and  lay  upon 
each  piece  6  slices  of  apple,  or  halve  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores 
and  lay  a  half  upon  each  piece  of  dough,  fill  the  hollow  with  sugar : 
fold  over  the  dough,  pinching  the  edges  tightly  together  to  retain 
the  juice.  Put  them  into  a  steamer,  cover  tightly  and  steam  for  1 
hour.  To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Ada  Beeghly, 
Johnstown,  Pa. 

Bread  Dumplings. — Take  bread  dough,  work  in  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  work  thoroughly 
into  the  dough,  then  make  it  into  little  balls ;  let  rise  till  light ;  have 
enough  boiling  water  in  a  kettle  to  cook  them ;  drop  the  dumplings 
into  the  boiling  water,  cover  kettle  tight,  let  boil  J/2  hour:  do  not 
remove  cover  till  dumplings  are  done.  A  little  salt  added  to  the 
water  before  putting  in  the  dumplings  improves  them.  Serve  with 
sweetened  milk. — Sister  Mary  Wallace,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


71 


Bread  Dumplings. — Take  1  cup  of  bread  sponge,  2  cups  of 
water,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  mix  same  as  for  bread ;  let  rise 
until  light,  then  make  into  balls  as  large  as  a  teacup ;  when  very 
light  drop  into  boiling  water  and  cook  until  done.  Serve  with 
sweetened  cream. — Sister  Josie  Sloniker,  Burroak,  Kans. 

Cherry  Dumplings. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  1  quart  of  flour ;  this 
makes  a  stiff  batter ;  drop  small  spoonfuls  into  greased  cups,  then  a 
layer  of  cherries,  alternately,  until  the  cups  are  ^4  full;  place  cups 
in  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  steam  20  minutes.  Cover 
steamer  closely  to  keep  in  steam  and  do  not  uncover  until 
done ;  serve  immediately  with  rich  milk  sweetened.  This  requires 
about  1^2  pints  of  seeded  cherries. — Sister  Ella  Stutsman,  Clayton, 
Ohio. 

Dumplings  for  Chicken. — Take  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  lard 
the  size  of  an  egg,  1  pint  of  water,  thicken  with  flour  to  make  a 
dough  stiff  enough  to  roll ;  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  drop  in  the 
chicken  broth,  cook  quickly. — Sister  Ida  B.  Hamilton,  Springport, 
Ind. 

Drop  Dumplings. — Tage  2  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter 
stiffer  than  cake  batter,  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  all  together  very 
hard  and  drop  into  broth  which  has  been  previously  strained  and  is 
boiling  fast.  Cover  them  after  all  the  batter  has  been  used  and  do 
not  uncover  until  sure  they  have  cooked  long  enough.  Allow  15 
minutes  for  their  cooking.  Dish  out  with  the  broth  into  a  large 
vegetable  dish. — Sister  D.  L.  Miller,  Alt.  Morris,  III. 

Drop  Dumplings  with  Chicken. — Take  3  eggs  well  beaten,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  T/i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk  or  cream, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Drop 
with  a  spoon  into  the  broth  after  the  chicken  is  done;  cook  a  few 
minutes. — Sister  Mary  Reddick,  Sheridan,  Mo. 


72 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Drop  Dumplings  with  Fruit. — Boil  tender  1  quart  of  dried 

fruit, — apples,  peaches  or  any  kind  that  is  not  too  mushy.  At  meal- 
time add  1  quart  boiling  water  and  make  dumplings  as  follows :  1 
quart  sifted  flour,  1  scant  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  4  eggs,  and  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  to  drop 
with  a  spoon.  Boil  about  15  minutes,  serve  at  once  with  rich,  sweet- 
ened milk-dip.  These  dumplings  are  also  good  dropped  in  chicken 
broth. — Sister  Ida  Puterbaugh,  Cando,  N.  Dak. 

Dumplings  and  Snitz. — For  the  dumplings  take  1  pint  of 
bread  sponge,  1  pint  of  fresh  milk,  y2  teacup  of  lard  and  mix  well, 
then  let  rise  well  and  work  in  cakes  and  lay  on  dough  board,  well 
floured.  Let  rise  again.  Xow  have  a  piece  of  ham  well  boiled  and 
take  3/2  gallon  of  the  broth  and  a  quart  of  dried  apples  stewed,  2 
teacupfuls  of  sugar  and  stir  together  and  put  in  a  baking  pan.  Then 
put  in  the  dumplings  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  will  make  15 
dumplings. — Sister  Katie  Replogle,  Osceola,  Mo. 

French  Dumplings. — Take  1  quart  of  flour,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  salt,  and  lard  to  make  as  short  as  pie 
crust,  buttermilk  or  water  to  wet  flour ;  roll  T/i  inch  thick  and  bake  ; 
break  in  pieces  and  pour  chicken  gravy  over  it. — Sister  MaJiala 
Stoner,  Aidtman,  Ohio. 

Hot  Water  Dumplings. — Stir  quickly  1  cup  of  boiling  water 
into  flour,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  plenty  of  flour  on  board,  roll 
and  cut  into  inch  squares,  drop  into  boiling  broth  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible and  cook  about  15  minutes. — Sister  Alice  S.  Wallick,  Cerro 
Gordo,  III. 

Irish  Dumplings. — Cook  1  pint  of  sour  dried  apples  in  1 
quart  of  Avater ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
take  10  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  to  a  stiff  batter  with  part  sweet 
and  part  sour  milk,  add  a  little  salt;  drop  into  the  apples  with  a 
spoon;  cook  10  minutes;  serve  with  sweetened  cream. — Sister  H.  G. 
Miller,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Lemon  Dumplings. — Into  a  granite-lined  pan  put  half  the 
grated  rind  and  all  the  juice  of  1  lemon.   Add  a  large  tablespoonful 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


73 


of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Into  this 
place  rich  baking-powder  biscuits,  not  touching,  pour  in  boiling 
water  until  level  with  the  top  of  the  biscuits  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  The  lemon  mixture  is  sufficient  for  twelve  dumplings. — Sister 
Orvilla  C.  Ogle,  Adams,  Nebr. 

Light  Dumplings. — When  you  bake  bread  and  your  dough 
is  ready  to  put  into  pans,  take  as  much  of  it  as  you  wish  to  make 
into  dumplings  and  make  it  into  cakes  the  size  of  biscuits.  Set  them 
aside  to  rise  until  quite  light.  Have  ready  a  kettle  with  \y2  or  2 
pints  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  put  about  a  teacupful  of 
sugar  (brown  is  best),  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  butter  or  lard. 
When  boiling  briskly,  put  in  your  dumplings  and  cover  up  tightly. 
Boil  rapidly  for  15  or  20  minutes,  being  careful  to  stick  them  with  a 
fork  every  time  you  remove  the  lid  to  see  whether  they  are  done. 
This  prevents  them  from  "  dodging  down."  Let  .them  boil  until  the 
water  is  nearly  all  evaporated  and  then  remove  from  the  stove.  Eat 
while  warm,  with  sweetened  milk. — Sister  Susan  Ikenberry,  Mt. 
Morris,  III. 

Light  Drop  Dumplings. — Take  1  cup  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt ;  mix  with  sweet  milk 
not  too  stiff ;  drop  in  with  potatoes  and  meat  or  sauerkraut,  cover 
and  let  steam  for  10  or  15  minutes. — Sister  Esther  H.  Sell,  Roaring 
Spring,  Pa. — These  dumplings  may  also  be  dropped  in  soup  beans 
that  are  cooked  with  pork,  or  in  chicken  or  beef  broth. — Sister  C.  S. 
Colony,  York,  N.  Dak. 

Delicious  Meat  Dumplings. — T'ake  1  well-beaten  egg,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  soft  butter  and  2  large  teaspoonfuls  best  baking  powder,  sifted 
with  a  pint  of  flour,  adding  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Then  drop  in  small  tablespoonfuls  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  meats  eight 
minutes  before  ready  to  serve.  Do  not  allow  steam  to  escape  while 
cooking. — Sister  Emma  E.  Kindig,  Inglewood,  Cal. 


74 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Baked  Peach  Dumplings. — Take  1  quart  of  flour.  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  mix  well  together,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed  and  enough  sweet  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough ;  roll  out  into  half-inch  sheets ;  peel  peaches  and  halve,  re- 
moving seeds ;  put  2  halves  on  a  square  of  dough,  sprinkle  over  with 
sugar  and  press  edges  together  firmly;  put  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  sugar 
and  bits  of  butter  over  each  dumpling  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
— Sister  Agnes  E.  Snader,  New  Windsor,  Md. 

Boiled  Peach  Dumplings. — Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
raised  bread  dough,  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  4-inch  squares :  enclose  the 
fruit  with  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  in  the  squares.  Have  enough 
water  boiling  to  swim  them,  drop  in  the  dumplings  and  boil  briskly 
for  25  minutes,  lift  in  wire  basket  and  serve  at  once  with  sugar  and 
cream. — Sister  W.  H.  Shank,  Waynesboro,  Pa. 

Potato  Dumplings. — Boil  potatoes  in  plenty  of  water  as  for 
mashing.  When  done,  pour  the  water  into  another  kettle  and  save. 
Season  this  water  with  salt  and  butter.  Now  proceed  to  mash  the 
potatoes,  and  season  as  for  mashed  potatoes.  Then  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour  and  2  eggs,  and  beat  until  light.  Carefully  drop  this 
batter  with  a  spoon  into  the  boiling  water  already  seasoned.  Let 
boil  15  minutes  without  removing  the  lid.  If  properly  seasoned  they 
will  be  excellent.  Serve  at  once.  This  makes  enough  for  a  family 
of  three. — Sister  Hettie  C.  Hardman,  Polo,  Mo. 

Prune  Dumplings. — Take  1  pint  of  good^  sweet  prunes,  stew 
very  tender  in  a  granite  dish,  then  put  into  a  kettle,  add  water  until 
the  whole  makes  y2  gallon :  season  the  broth  with  butter,  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste  ;  or  better  still,  omit  the  butter  and  add  ham  drippings  ; 
then  drop  in  batter  made  as  follows :  Take  1  pint  of  flour,  1  egg, 
salt  to  taste,  sweet  milk  and  cream ;  make  a  thick  batter ;  drop  in 
the  boiling  broth  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  settle.  It  is  then  ready 
to  serve. — Sister  Mary  V.  Ebersole,  Salem,  Oregon. 

Rice  Dumplings. — Boil  the  rice  until  done,  then  season  with 
a  little  salt  and  butter.  Have  9-inch  squares  of  cheese  cloth ; 
spread  the  rice  on  those  until  about  the  size  of  an  ordinary  saucer 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


75 


and  about  Yz  of  an  inch  thick.  Take  good  cooking  apples,  pare,  cut 
in  halves  and  core.  If  very  large,  use  only  half  of  one  for  each 
dumpling.  Place  on  the  rice,  and  take  cloth  together,  forming  a 
ball,  tie  with  strong  thread.  Then  steam  them  for  Yz  hour  to  be 
well  done;  or  you  can  put  them  into  boiling  water  just  enough  to 
cover  them  and  boil  for  20  minutes.  .When  done  remove  the  cloth 
and  eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  They  are  better  steamed.  Other 
tartish  fruits  can  be  used  if  preferred. — Sister  J.  P.  Holsinger,  Mt. 
Morris,  III, 

Sauerkraut  and  Dumplings. — Put  the  kraut  on  to  boil  and 
let  cook  at  least  10  minutes,  while  you  make  a  batter  of  1  cup  of 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt  (unless  the 
kraut  is  too  salty),  and  water  enough  to*  make  a  very  stiff  batter,  so 
that  you  can  cut  it  off  by  teaspoonfuls  and  drop  it  on  the  boiling 
kraut.  Let  all  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Then  cover  and  let  boil  five 
or  ten  minutes  more.  Take  up,  pour  melted  butter,  lard  or  meat 
fryings  over  all  (about  three  tablespoonfuls)  and  serve. — Sister  W. 
J.  Haynes,  Moorefield,  Nebr. 

Apple  Fritters. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  2  cups  of  flour.  Beat  well.  Take  4  tart  apples,  pare,  core,  cut 
in  slices,  dip  in  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Sell, 
Newry,  Pa. 

Apple  Fritters. — Take  1  quart  buttermilk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  quite  stiff.  Pare  the  apples,  cut 
slices  around  the  apple  x/\  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  the  apples  in  the 
batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard  till  brown,  then  turn  and  brown  the  other 
side. — Sister  Eldora  Thomas,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Apple  Fritters. — Beat  well  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  y2  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and, 2  cups  of  sifted  flour;  beat  until 
smooth  and  light;  stir  in  1  pint  of  pared  and  sliced  apples  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  into  boiling  lard,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  and  take  out  with  a  skimmer;  serve  at  once  with 
syrup. — Sister  Annie  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 


76 


P0TPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


Apple  Cakes. — Take  10  to  12  sour  apples,  according  to  size. 
Pare,  cut  out  core,  and  then  cut  around  the  apple,  in  slices  J/£  inch  in 
thickness.  Now  take  1  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs  and  sweet  milk  to  make  this  amount 
into  a  batter  as  for  pancakes,  but  not  so  thin.  Then  take  lard  and 
fry  as  doughnuts,  dipping  the  apples  in  the  batter,  covering  them 
with  it.  Then  fry  in  hot  lard,  eating  maple  syrup  with  them.  Serve 
hot  or  cold;  best  hot. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Crawl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 

Asparagus  Fritters. — Take  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  level 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  ]/\  cup  of 
sweet  milk  and  enough  flour  to  make  drop  batter.  Add  cold  cooked 
asparagus  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  lard. — Sister  Phoebe  Foft,  Kingsley, 
Iozua. 

Banana  Fritters. — Sift  1  cup  of  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  into  a  bowl,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  rub  the 
butter  and  flour  together,  add  Yz  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  the  batter  gradually  to  the  whites.  Peel  6  bananas, 
cut  each  one  into  4  pieces,  dip  separately  into  the  batter  and  fry 
in  deep  hot  lard  to  a  golden  color ;  remove  and  lay  them  on  paper ; 
serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  sauce. — Sister  Annie  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 

Banana  Fritters. — Sift  together  1  cup  of  flour  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Mix  and 
add  3  bananas,  mashed  fine,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Drop  table- 
spoonfuls  in  deep  fat,  fry  golden  brown;  drain  and  serve  with 
syrup  or  clear  sauce. — Sister  L.  U.  Kr eider,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Cherry  Fritters. — Take  2  quarts  of  flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make 
a  batter  to  drop  from  a  spoon  nicely.  Add  a  pint  of  seeded  cheeries 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Fannie  Lichtenberger,  Carlisle,  Pa. 


POTPIES,   DUMPLINGS   AND  FRITTERS 


77 


Frogs. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  drop  into  boiling  lard.  Serve  hot  with 
syrup  or  sweetened  cream. — Sister  E.  M.  Cobb,  Elgin,  III. 

Orange  Fritters. — Peel  and  quarter  the  oranges,  remove  the 
seeds  and  all  the  extra  outside  skin.  Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoonful  of  olive  oil,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  y2 
cup  of  cold  water,  or  sufficient  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Roll  the 
quartered  oranges  in  powdered  sugar,  dip  them  immediately  into  the 
batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Annie  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 

Peach  Fritters. — Beat  2  eggs  light,  then  add  1  pint  of  but- 
termilk, in  which  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter.  Have 
ready  peaches,  peeled  and  sliced  thin;  stir  these  into  the  batter, 
then  drop  this  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard  and  fry  until  a  nice  golden 
brown.  Serve  hot  with  maple  or  other  syrup. — Sister  Evelyn  T. 
Keiser,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 


POTPIES,  DUMPLINGS  AND  FRITTERS 


Macaroni  combined  with  other  foods,  such  as  milk  and  cheese, 
makes  a  very  palatable  and  wholesome  dish  and  may  be  made  to 
take  the  place  of  meat  in  some  of  our  meals.  The  digestibility  of 
cheese  depends  much  on  its  physical  properties  and  degree  of  ripe- 
ness, fat  cheeses  or  well-ripened  cheeses  being  more  easily  digested 
than  others.  The  percentage  of  water  in  a  cheese,  or  whether  it  is 
hard  or  soft,  does  not  appear  to  affect  its  digestibility.  An  authority 
on  cooking  says  that  "  in  cooking  cheese  in  any  form  it  is  well  to 
add  bicarbonate  of  potash  in  the  proportion  of  one-fourth  saltspoon 
to  four  ounces  of  cheese.  This  restores  the  potash  salts  lost  from  the 
milk  in  the  process  of  cheese  making  and  renders  it  more  digestible.'" 
Another  authority  states  that  cheese  may  be  kept  from  moulding  by 
being  wrapped  in  a  cloth  wet  with  good  cider  vinegar. 

Macaroni. — Boil  y2  pound  of  macaroni  15  minutes ;  have 
y2  pound  of  cheese  grated  or  chipped  fine;  place  in  a  baking  dish  a 
layer  of  macaroni  and  then  one  of  cheese  alternately,  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter ;  then  pour  over  all  a  teacupful 
of  milk  or  cream;  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  30  minutes. — Sister 
B entice  Ashmore,  Mansfield,  III. 

Macaroni. — Take  about  y2  pound  of  macaroni,  cook  until 
tender  in  salted  water  and  drain.  Fry  a  medium-sized  onion  until 
a  nice  brown  in  plenty  of  drippings.  Have  a  pint  of  tomatoes  or 
more  cooking,  add  your  onion  to  the  tomatoes,  also  about  J/%  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  or  paprika,  or  a  little  green  pepper 
(hot).  Cook  a  long-  time.  Put  a  layer  of  the  tomatoes  into 
a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese,  having  the  tomatoes  as  a  top  layer.  Bake. — Sister  J.  F. 
Thomas,  Ingleieood,  Cal. 

79 


/ 


80 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


Macaroni. — Boil  about  pound  of  macaroni  in  slightly- 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  put  into  a  pan  with  alternate 
layers  of  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  cheese  until  all  the  macaroni  is 
used,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  with  butter.  Cover  with  sweet  milk  and 
bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. — 
Sister  Luverna  Sheets,  Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Baked  Macaroni. — Stew  macaroni  in  slightly  salted  water 
till  tender,  then  make  alternate  layers  of  the  macaroni  and  cooked 
hominy  in  a  deep  bake  dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of 
1  butter ;  nearly  cover  with  rich  milk,  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  on  top, 
and  bake. — Sister  Annie  R.  Stoner,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Creamed  Macaroni. — Drop  one  pint  of  broken  macaroni  into 
boiling  water.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  drain  off  most  of  the 
water.  Add  to  the  macaroni  y$  pint  of  condensed  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  ^/z  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  liberal  grating  of  nutmeg.  It 
is  then  ready  to  serve.  If  fresh  milk  is  used,  drain  the  macaroni 
dry,  as  it  is  not  so  rich  as  the  condensed  milk. — Bro.  H.  D.  Michael, 
,  Myrtle  Point,  Oreg. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — Take  1  package  of  macaroni,  break 
up  in  small  pieces.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  salt  to  taste,  and  let 
boil  until  soft.  Then  butter  a  pudding  or  bread  pan  well,  cover 
bottom  with  macaroni,  then  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  or  chopped 
cheese,  pepper  well  and  put  small  bits  of  butter  over  top,  then  an- 
other layer  of  macaroni,  then  cheese,  and  so  on  until  the  macaroni  is 
all  used,  having  cheese  cn  top.  Pour  over  this  a  cup  of  cream  or 
milk  and  bake  until  nicely  browned.  Can  be  prepared  the  same 
with  oysters,  using  oysters  same  as  the  cheese. — Sister  Pearl  Weim- 
ert,  Hcizer,  Kans. 

Egg  Macaroni. — Take  4  cups  of  raw  macaroni,  4  eggs,  iy2 
cups  of  cream,  1}4  cups  of  milk  and  salt.  Put  macaroni  in  four 
quarts  of  boiling  water  which  has  been  salted  a  little.  Cook  until 
just  tender,  drain,  rinse  off  thoroughly  with  hot  water  and  put  in  a 
well  buttered  baking  dish.    Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  stir  in  the 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


81 


cream  and  milk,  add  a  little  salt,  pour  over  the  macaroni  and  bake 
until  set. — Sister  Bertha  Butcher,  Sterling,  III. 

Macaroni  and  Oysters. — Break  3  ounces  (about  a  teacupful) 
of  macaroni  into  2-inch  pieces ;  throw  it  into  boiling  water,  and  boil 
rapidly  for  2  minutes.  Drain  and  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  few 
moments  to  blanch.  Use  25  oysters.  Put  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  the 
baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters  with  a  dusting  of  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  macaroni  and  oysters, 
and  so  on  until  you  have  the  dish  full.  Pour  over  the  top  y2  pint  of 
cream  or  milk.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  for  T/2  hour. — Sister  I.  T.  Meyers,  Oaks,  Pa. 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes. — Take  1  can  of  tomatoes,  put  in  a 
pinch  of  soda  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Have  prepared  one  cup  of 
macaroni  broken  in  small  pieces  and  cooked  until  tender.  Stir  this 
into  the  tomatoes,  then  add  a  little  thickening  made  of  flour  and  milk, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. — 
Sister  Louie  Yiengst,  Division,  Kans. 

Macaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce. — Break  half  a  pound  of  mac- 
aroni in  pieces,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  boiling,  salted 
water,  and  cook  until  tender.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  chop  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and 
stir  in  the  butter ;  let  simmer  until  the  onion  is  brown ;  add  a  pint 
,  of  chopped  tomatoes  and  boil  half  an  hour;  then  take  up,  strain 
through  a  wire  sieve,  put  in  a  clean  saucepan  and  set  over  the  fire  to 
boil  till  thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  the  macaroni, 
put  a  layer  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with 
the  tomato  sauce  and  then  more  macaroni  and  sauce  till  all  is  used, 
putting  butter  on  top.  Set  in  oven  to  brown,  and  serve  hot. — 
Sister  Esther  M.  H.  Brozvn,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Crackers  with  Cheese. — Spread  water  or  soda  crackers  with 
butter,  then  grate  cheese  over  them,  arrange  in  a  dripping  pan  and 
place  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted. — Sister  Catharine  Yundt, 
Lordsburg,  Cal. 


82 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


Cheese  Entree. — Place  over  the  fire  in"  a  saucepan  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  when  it  is  hot  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  y2  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  light  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  them  with 
a  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  remove  from  the  fire,  put  in  a  cool  place ; 
when  cold,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour 
into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  20  minutes,  taking  immediately  from 
the  stove  to  the  table. — Sister  Jas.  F.  Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cal. 

Eiscalloped  Cheese.— (A  good  way  to  use  the  bits  of  cheese.) 
Line  a  common-size  pudding  dish  with  cracker  crumbs ;  cut  over 
this  bits  of  cheese  in  the  thinnest  possible  slices,  then  another  thin 
layer  of  the  cracker  crumbs  and  another  layer  of  cheese,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Take  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  and  cut  in 
bits  over  the  top.  Pour  over  this  milk  enough  to  almost  cover 
crackers  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Serve 
while  hot. — Sister  Minnie  Replogle,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Cheese  Fondue. — Soak  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  2  cups  of 
milk,  add  3  eggs  beaten  lightly,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  lastly  2  cups  of  grated  cheese.  Mix 
all  together  and  bake  brown. — Sister  Ella  Eckerle,  Chicago,  III. 

French  Rarebit. — In  a  well-buttered  earthen  dish,  place  a 
layer  of  bread  buttered,  next  a  layer  of  cheese  cut  thin,  then  another 
layer  of  the  bread  and  butter,  then  cheese  till  the  dish  is  full,  leaving 
a  layer  of  cheese  on  top ;  turn  over  this  2  cups  of  milk,  to  which  2 
eggs  beaten  have  been  added.  Bake  20  minutes. — Sister  Perry 
Broadwater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — Cut  into  small  pieces  y2  pound  of 
good  cream  cheese,  together  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut,  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  pepper  if  you 
wish  it  right  hot.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  the  above  melt  well 
together.  Just  before  ready  to  use  it,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  good 
morning  milk.  Have  a  large  meat  dish  with  large  square  crackers 
(water  crackers  will  do)  placed  side  by  side  on  it.    Just  before 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


83 


you  are  ready  to  serve  supper,  dip  a  spoonful  of  the  above  mixture 
over  each  cracker.  They  are  to  be  served  hot. — Sister  Ora  Beach- 
ley,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

To  Make  Croquettes. — The  sauce  is  the  most  important  item 
in  making  croquettes.  It  should  be  made  in  the  proportion  of  1  cup 
of  milk  to  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
This  amount  is  sufficient  for  2  cups  of  minced  meat.  For  other 
fillings  the  amount  would  depend  on  the  nature  of  the  filling.  Rub 
the  flour  and  butter  to  a  paste  and  stir  it  into  the  scalded  milk. 
Continue  stirring  until  smooth  and  thick.  On  removing  from  the 
fire  a  well-beaten  egg  may  be  stirred  in,  but  this  is  not  really 
necessary.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  onion  juice — a  teaspoonful 
for  this  amount — a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg  may 
also  be  added.  Stir  the  minced  meat  into  this  sauce,  pour  into 
a  rather  flat  pan  and  set  away  for  two  or  more  hours.  It  will  then 
be  stiff  enough  to  mold  easily.  The  softer  the  mixture  the  better 
will  be  the  croquettes ;  simply  aim  to  have  it  stiff  enough  to  handle. 
To  mold  take  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  and  roll  it  lightly  be- 
tween the  hands  into  a  ball.  Have  a  plentiful  supply  of  bread- 
crumbs spread  evenly  on  a  board  and  roll  the  ball  lightly  on  the 
crumbs  into  the  shape  of  a  cylinder.  Have  ready  a  bowl  containing 
a  well-beaten  egg.  (If  the  egg  is  small  more  than  one  will  be 
needed.)  Add  to  the  egg  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoon- 
ful to  each  egg.  Immerse  the  cylinders  in  the  egg,  being  careful  that 
every  bit  of  the  surface  is  covered  so  the  grease  may  not  penetrate. 
Then  lift  out  on  a  knife  blade  and  roll  again  in  the  crumbs.  If  a 
light  yellow  color  is  desired,  use  fresh  white  breadcrumbs  on  the 
outside  of  the  croquettes  and  do  not  use  the  yolk  of  the  egg.  Coarse, 
fresh  crumbs  are  used  for  fish  croquettes  which  are  usually  made  in 
the  form  of  chops  or  half-heart  shaped.  Cracker  crumbs  are  used 
where  a  smooth  surface  is  wanted.  Have  all  the  croquettes  of  per- 
fectly uniform  size  and  shape  and  lay  them  aside  on  a  dish  so  that 
they  will  not  touch  one  another  for  an  hour  or  more  before  frying. 
This  will  make  the  crust  firm.  The  white  of  an  egg  alone  may  be 
used  for  egging  them,  but  not  the  yolk  alone.  Whip  the  egg  with  the 


84 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


water,  just  enough  to  break  it,  as  air  bubbles  in  the  egg  will  break  in 
frying  and  let  the  grease  penetrate.  To  fry  let  the  fat  become 
smoking  hot,  then  test  it  with  a  piece  of  bread.  If  the  bread  colors 
while  you  count  40  it  is  right.  After  dipping  the  frying  basket  in 
the  fat  to  grease  it,  lay  in  it  four  croquettes  so  that  they  do  not 
touch  one  another  and  immerse  them  in  the  fat.  Cook  only  long 
enough  to  give  them  a  delicate  color.  Let  them  drain  a  moment 
over  the  hot  fat,  then  lift  them  from  the  basket  with  the  hand,  very 
quickly,  so  as  not  to  burn  the  hand,  "and  place  on  a  brown  paper  on 
the  hot  shelf  or  in  the  open  oven  until  all  are  ready.  Do  not  fry 
more  than  four  at  one  time,  as  more  would  reduce  the  heat  of  the 
fat  too  much.  Let  the  fat  become  smoking  hot  before  each  immer- 
sion of  croquettes.  Hang  the  basket  on  a  long  iron  spoon  so  the 
hand  will  not  be  burned  by  the  spattering  fat.  Croquettes  may 
be  made  of  any  sort  of  meat,  though  chicken,  veal  and  sweetbread 
croquettes  are  the  most  delicate  and  popular  of  the  meat  croquettes. 
They  may  be  made  of  oysters,  lobsters,  fish  of  any  sort,  meat  and 
boiled  hominy  in  equal  proportions,  meat  and  rice,  macaroni  and  of 
many  other  things. 


MACARONI   AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE  DISHES 


Breakfast  foods  that  require  cooking  should  be  thoroughly 
cooked  over  a  slow  fire.  Thirty  minutes  is  none  too  long  for  the 
cooking  of  such  cereals  as  graham,  wheat  meals,  oatmeal,  etc.  A 
double  boiler  should  be  used  for  cooking  these  foods,  as  none  of 
the  food  is  wasted  by  sticking  to  the  vessel  and  less  attention  is 
necessary.  Oatmeal  is  improved  by  soaking  over  night  in  half 
the  water  required  for  cooking  it,  the  other  half  being  added  in  the 
morning  boiling  hot,  when  it  is  put  on  to  cook.  Let  the  inner  vessel 
of  the  boiler  sit  on  the  stove  until  the  meal  begins  to  boil  briskly,  then 
set  in  outer  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Griddle  cakes  and  the  like 
should  be  served  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  stove.  If  they  are  not 
served  immediately,  they  should  be  placed  in  a  warmed  dish  and 
closely  covered.  A  little  shortening  added  to  pancake  batter  makes 
them  more  tender.  A  soapstone  griddle  does  not  need  to  be  greased. 
As  a  substitute  for  the  bacon  rind  the  griddle  may  be  rubbed  with 
the  cut  side  of  a  white  turnip.  If  a  griddle  has  become  rough  from 
any  cause  smooth  it  by  rubbing  thoroughly  with  salt.  Always  have 
grease  hot  before  putting  potatoes  or  mush  to  fry  and  fry  briskly 
but  not  too  fast. 

Bread  Griddlecakes. — Soak  dry  bread  in  milk  until  soft,  add 
flour,  soda,  and  eggs ;  fry  the  same  as  other  griddle  cakes. — Sister 
M.  C.  W'hitesel,  Wayside,  Wash. 

Bread  Pancakes. — Take  bread  that  has  become  dry  and  cut 
it  in  small  pieces  in  a  dish  and  cover  with  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 
Let  stand  over  night,  and  mash  up  .fine  in  the  morning.  Put  in  1 
egg  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  cup  of  flour,  and  salt.  Don't 
have  too  thin,  and  bake  as  pancakes. — Sister  Libbie  Hall,  Batdorf, 
Ohio. 

87 


88 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


Buckwheat  Cakes. — Take  y2  of  a  yeast  cake,  1  quart  of  warm 
water,  and  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Let  set 
over  night  in  a  warm  place  and  in  the  morning  add  y2  teaspoonful 
of  soda  and  salt.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Some  add  to  the  buck- 
wheat flour  a  small  quantity  of  wheat  flour. — Sister  Galen  B.  Royer, 
Elgin,  III. 

Corn  Cakes. — Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  egg,  butter  the 
size  of  a  hulled  walnut,  T/2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  corn 
meal  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Bake  on  a  griddle  well  greased 
with  lard.  This  can  be  baked  in  one  pan,  and  makes  a  nice  pone. — 
Sister  Eleanor  Booth,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Corn  Cakes  and  Puddings. — Take  2  cups  of  buttermilk,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  large  teaspoonful  of  soda,  y2  cup  of  flour,  \y2 
cups  of  corn  meal.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle  as 
served.  Puddings  to  be  eaten  on  the  cakes :  Put  the  required 
amount  of  puddings  in  a  frying  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  melt. 
When  soft  break  in  an  egg  and  stir  well.  Cook  for  5  minutes, 
stirring  often.  Take  from  the  stove,  heap  the  puddings  in  one  side 
of  the  pan  and  hold  so  that  the  grease  will  run  to  the  other  side. 
Dip  out  the  grease  with  a  spoon.  Return  to  the  stove,  add  enough 
water  to  make  rather  thin  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Puddings 
prepared  in  this  way  are  much  more  healthful  than  when  the  grease 
is  left  in. — Sister  M.  Jane  Stauffer,  Polo,  III. 

Corn  Cakes. — Put  1,  cupful  of  bolted  corn  meal  into  a  large 
bowl,  pour  over  it  enough  boiling  water  thoroughly  to  moisten  the 
meal,  thin  with  cold  water  to  an  ordinary  thin  batter;  add  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  and  lightly  beaten 
into  the  batter.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. — Sister  Annie  Saylor,  Myers- 
dale,  Pa. 

Corn  Cakes. — Scald  1  pint  of  corn  meal  with  enough  boiling 
sweet  milk  to  stir,  let  it  cool,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder  and  y>  cup  of  flour.  Stir  all  together ;  if  not  thin 
enough  for  the  batter,  thin  with  sweet  milk.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. — 
Sister  Bernice  Ashmore,  Mansfield,  III. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


89 


Flannel  Cakes. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  buttermilk 
to  make  a  good  batter;  put  butter  the  size  of  a  hulled  walnut  in  a 
tin  cup  on  the  stove  to  get  hot,  then  add  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
a  little  boiling  water ;  add  this  to  the  batter,  and  bake  on  a  hot,  well- 
greased  griddle ;  heap  the  cakes  up  in  a  deep  dish  to  keep  warm  and 
serve. — Sister  Salina  Kimmel,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Graham  Pancakes. — For  a  family  of  four  or  five  persons 
take  2  cups  of  sour  buttermilk,  into  which  is  dissolved  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  little  salt ;  then  stir  in 
sifted  graham  flour  until  the  batter  is  a  little  thicker  than  usual  for 
cake  batter.  Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle  and  keep  warm  in  a 
tureen  or  other  covered  dish.  This  makes  a  good  breakfast  dish 
with  a  little  butter  and  hot  syrup.  The  syrup  may  be  made  of  Y 
cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  boiled  to  the  thickness  desired.  I 
prefer  thin  syrup. — Sister  Lillie  M.  Price,  Polo,  III. 

Hominy  Cakes. — Take  2  cups  of  cold,  boiled  hominy,  1  egg, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  Y$  CUP  eacn  °f  sweet  milk  and  flour.  Mix 
well,  and  form  into  cakes,  y2  inch  thick.  Fry  in  a  hot  frying  pan, 
with  a  spoon,  using  just  enough  grease  to  prevent  the  cakes  from 
sticking  to  the  pan.  Cover  while  frying  so  that  they  will  cook 
through. — Sister  M.  Jane  Stanffer,  Polo,  III. 

Pancakes. — Take  2  pints  of  buttermilk,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt,  then  add  enough  flour  (graham, 
buckwheat  or  wheat  flour)  to  make  a  batter. — Sister  Katie  Moore 
Strickler,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Pancakes. — Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  5  teacupfuls  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  the 
eggs,  and  add  them  to  the  milk,  sugar,  and  butter,  which  should  be 
melted ;  stir  the  mixture  into  the  flour ;  dissolve  the  soda  in  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water  and  add,  last  thing,  to  the  batter.  Have  a 
deep  pan  of  boiling  fat  and  drop  the  batter  into  it  in  small  spoonfuls, 
having  first  dipped  the  spoon  in  water  or  milk.  Cook  about  5 
minutes. — Sister  Nannie  H.  Stray er,  Johnstown,  Pa. 


90 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


Sour  Dough  Pancakes. — Take  1  pint  of  flour  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  graham  flour  and  stir  in  water  to  make  a  batter.  Set  in 
a  warm  place  to  sour.  Then  add  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  half  of  the  mixture  and  fry  on  a  hot  griddle,  add 
more  flour  and  water  to  the  rest  of  dough  for  the  next  morning. 
Always  stir  soda  and  other  things  in  of  evenings. — Sister  Chas.  H. 
Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Rice  Cakes.— To  2  cups  of  seasoned  left-over  rice,  add  two 
eggs,  1  cup  of  flour,  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  little  more 
salt  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  thin  like  batter  cakes.  Fry  in  hot 
lard.   Eat  with  syrup. — Sister  Florence  Hays  Kline,  Broadway,  Va. 

Rice  Pancakes. — Take  2  cups  of  cooked  rice,  1  cup  of  gra- 
ham flour,  1  cup  of  white  flour,  1  cup  of  sour  cream  with  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  or  2  cups  of  sour  milk  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  added, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  3  eggs  beaten  separately.  Bake  on  a  griddle. — Sister  Amanda 
Brozvn,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Waffles. — Take  V/z  pints  of  wheat  flour,  y2  pint  of  graham 
flour,  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Bake  on  waffle  irons. — Sister  Belle  Rihard, 
Altoona,  Iozva. 

Waffles. — Take  3  eggs,  1  quart  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter; 
beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  thoroughly,  stir  in  the  milk,  add  the  butter 
and  soda,  and  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Use  enough 
flour  to  make  it  drop  nicely  from  a  spoon ;  have  the  waffle  iron  well 
greased  (grease  it  every  time  you  remove  a  waffle).  Serve  the 
waffles  in  layers  with  butter  and  sugar  between  them.  This  propor- 
tion will  be  sufficient  for  6  persons. — Sister  Mary  Griffith,  Master- 
sonville,  Pa. 

A  Teaspoonful  of  sugar  added  to  pancake  batter,  will  make 
the  cakes  a  golden  brown. — Sister  Chas.  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


91 


Toast. — Take  4  slices  of  bread,  spread  lightly  with  butter, 
place  on  pie  pans  and  put  into  the  oven  till  nearly  brown.  Have 
ready  3  pints  of  sweet  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  put  over  the 
bread,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  is  a  very  healthful  dish. — Sister, 
Anna  Zimmerman,  Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Breakfast  Toast. — Mix  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  2  well-beaten  eggs  in  y2  pint  of  sweet 
milk.  In  this  mixture  dip  slices  of  bread  and  fry  them  on  a  buttered 
griddle  until  they  are  a  light  brown  on  each  side. — Sister  Emma  A. 
Miller,  Sharp  sbarg,  Md. 

Milk  Toast. — For  1  large  dish  of  toast,  take  2  slices  of  bread, 
toast  brown,  sprinkle  with  sugar ;  let  1  quart  of  milk  come  to  a  boil, 
then  pour  it  over  the  bread  and  serve. — Sister  Barbara  Johnson, 
Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 

Milk  Toast. — Take  3  slices  of  bread,  toast  to  a  light  brown ; 
take  3  pints  of  fresh  milk,  heat  it  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  put  the  bread  in  a  dish,  pour 
over  it  the  hot  milk.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  before  serving. — 
Sister  Ida  M.  Nelson,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Wholesome  Toast. — Save  all  your  bread  crumbs,  broken 
bits  of  bread  and  dry  crusts.  Put  them  on  pie  tins  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  until  thoroughly  dried  and  a  golden  brown.  Put  all  in  a  pan 
and  crush  fine  with  a  wooden  potato  masher.  Put  4  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  in  a  dessert  dish,  cover  with  hot  milk  in  which  a  little  salt 
has  been  sprinkled.  It  may  be  eaten  with  sugar,  but  is  more  whole- 
some without.  If  you  do  not  wish  to  use  at  once,  put  in  a  bag  in  a 
dry  place  until  wanted.  As  it  contains  no  moisture,  it  will  keep 
indefinitely.  This  makes  a  pleasant  change  from  oatmeal  and  other 
cereals. — Sister  Adaline  H.  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

Fried  Bread. — Slice  stale  bread.  Take  1  egg,  beat  it  well, 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  %  cup  of  cold  water;  dip  the  slices  in  the 
batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter. — Sister  Kate  Roysr,  Celina, 
Ohio. 


92 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


Fried  Bread. — Beat  1  egg  to  a  froth.  Pour  into  this  1  teacup- 
ful  of  sour  cream  or  milk  into  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has  been  stirred ; 
then  add  a  little  salt  and  stir  all  well  together.  Put  a  lump  of 
butter,  suet  or  drippings  in  the  frying  pan,  and  let  it  get  real  hot. 
Take  bread  scraps  or  slices  of  bread,  not  less  than  three  or  four  days 
old,  and  dip  in  the  batter.  Fry  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides  and  serve 
with  hot  sugar  syrup. — Sister  Martha  E.  Lear,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Fried  Bread. — Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard 
in  a  skillet.  Crumb  up  a  large  dish  of  bread  (scraps  can  be  used), 
put  into  the  skillet,  salt  and  pepper  the  same  as  for  potatoes,  and  fry 
nice  and  brown.  Stir  to  keep  from  burning.  Then  take  y2  cup  of 
sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  together,  adding  enough 
milk  to  fill  the  dish.  Stir  up  and  pour  over  the  fried  bread.  Rinse 
the  dish  with  another  cup  of  milk  and  pour  in.  Let  boil  up  and 
serve. — Sister  Almeda  Caskey,  Corning,  Iowa. 

Fried  Bread. — Slice  the  bread  about  1  inch  thick.  Take  1 
quart  of  hot  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  dip  the  bread  in  the 
hot  water,  put  in  a  hot  pan  with  melted  butter  and  fry  a  light  brown 
on  both  sides.  — Sister  Laura  Anglemyer,  Huntington,  Ind. 

Fried  Bread  Using  Eggs. — Slice  the  bread  about  1  inch 
thick.  Take  6  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream  1  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
beat  to  a  batter;  then  dip  the  slices  of  bread  in  the  batter,  and  fry  a 
light  brown  in  hot  butter. — Sister  Laura  Anglemyer,  Huntington, 
Ind. 

Breakfast  Mush. — Put  V/2  cups  of  water,  V/2  cups  of  sweet 
milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  salt  to  taste,  in  a  pan. 
Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  corn  meal  to  make  a  soft  mush  easily 
dropped  with  a  spoon ;  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  2  eggs,  beat 
well,  cook  a  minute  or  two  longer.  Have  the  pancake  griddle  hot, 
with  a  liberal  supply  of  butter  and  meat  fryings  melted.  Drop  the 
mush  in  by  the  spoonful  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot. — 
Sister  Susie  Forney  Puterbaugh,  Kidder,  Mo. 

Good  Fried  Mush. — Put  lard  or  suet  in  a  pot  kept  for  this 
purpose,  enough  to  cover  the  mush.    Have  a  wire  bucket  or  kettle. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


93 


Slice  your  mush,  place  it  in  your  wire  kettle,  not  too  much  at  a  time. 
Now  have  the  lard  very  hot ;  then  put  mush  in.  When  brown  enough 
lift  it  and  let  it  drip  a  moment.  Repeat  until  you  have  enough  for 
your  meal.  Be  sure  to  keep  your  lard  hot  enough.  This  is  quicker 
done  and  much  better  than  to  fry  in  a  pan. — Sister  Daniel  Vaniman, 
McPkerson,  Kans. 

Good  Fried  Mush. — In  the  morning  when  you  want  to  fry 
mush,  take  as  much  boiling  water  as  you  think  you  will  need,  salt 
and  stir  in  corn  meal  till  the' mush  will  not  run  when  put  in  the  pan. 
Have  the  pan  hot  with  enough  grease  to  fry.  When  brown,  turn 
and  brown  again.  Do  not  make  too  stiff,  or  it  will  break  in  the 
pan  and  will  not  be  good.  Put  it  into  the  pan  by  spoonfuls. — Sister 
M.  Catherine  Strickler,  Lanark,  III. 

Granula  (A  Hygienic  Dish). — Get  good  graham  flour,  take 
pure  spring  or  soft  water,  nothing  else,  and  knead  to  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  and  mould  as  for  biscuit  (not  as  thick).  Bake  thoroughly  in  a 
hot  oven.  When  well  done,  or  over  done,  remove  and  cool,  then  cut 
each  piece  in  halves  and  put  back  in  a  warm  baker  and  dry  to  a 
crisp,  not  brown  or  burnt.  A  yellow  brown  will  not  hurt.  Now 
crush  or  break  in  small  bits  and  grind  them  as  you  would  coffee. 
You  now  have  one  of  the  best  health  foods  known.  It  can  be  served 
in  various  ways.  Soaked  in  good,  rich  milk  is  the  best  way  to  eat 
it.  Some  like  to  add  a  little  sugar,  some  a  little  salt  (but  don't  add 
salt  when  you  bake  it,  it  spoils  the  flavor).  Some  eat  it  with  fruit. 
It  makes  a  nice  cold  Sunday  dish  and  is  always  ready.  It  can  be 
used  in  puddings  and  mixed  with  bread  for  dressings.  We  have 
made  and  used  this  hygienic  food  for  23  years,  and  know  its  merits. 
The  biscuits,  or  graham  crackers,  warm  from  the  oven,  well  baked, 
with  crispy  crust,  make  a  delightful  bread.  We  have  a  small  hand 
mill  to  grind  them.  If  you  cannot  get  good  graham  flour,  if  it  is 
too  rough  with  bran,  add  a  little  white  flour,  or  sift  the  coarsest  bran 
out.  Graham  made  of  white  wheat  is  best. — Sister  Amanda  Wit- 
more,  McPkerson,  Kans. 


94 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


Breakfast  Food. — Brown  stale  light  bread  (scraps  will  do) 
in  the  oven  till  golden-brown  and  crisp.  Pulverize  with  the  rolling- 
pin  on  a  cloth.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or  fruit  juice,  if 
desired. — Sister  L.  V.  Forehand,  Gerster,  Mo. 

Graham  Gruel. — Take  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  of 
graham  flour,  J/2  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  salt ;  stir  the  flour 
smooth  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  into  the  boiling  water  and 
cook  rapidly  about  30  minutes;  add  the  milk  or  cream  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire.  Serve  with  sugar. — Sister  S.  Z.  Sharp,  Fruit  a, 
Colo. 

Graham  Mush. — Sift  graham  meal  into  boiling  salted  water, 
stirring  briskly  until  quite  stiff.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  or 
with  butter  and  syrup.  This  mush  is  much  improved  by  removing 
from  kettle  and  steaming  from  1  to  3  hours ;  eat  cold  or  slice  and 
fry  like  corn  meal  mush. — Sister  Minnie  C.  Christopher,  Warrcns- 
bitrg,  Mo. 

Graham  Mush. — Take  2  quarts  of  water,  1  pint  of  graham 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Have  the  water  boiling  and  stir  in  the 
meal  briskly  with  an  egg  beater,  boil  15  minutes,  and  serve  with  rich 
milk  and  sugar  either  hot  or  cold. — Sister  Catharine  W ampler,  Day- 
ton, Va. 

Graham  Mush. — Take  boiling  water,  salt  to  taste,  make  a 
mush  by  stirring  in  good  graham  flour,  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  keep  from  sticking.  Serve  warm  or  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream. — Sister  Lizzie  Bagwell,  Bremen,  Ohio. 

Potato  and  Celery  Hash. — Take  3  cups  of  cold  boiled  po- 
tatoes, minced,  1  cup  cooked  celery,  minced,  and  salt.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, put  in  baking  pan  which  has  been  oiled,  sprinkle  butter  over 
hash  and  let  brown.  Stir  occasionally. — Sister  Bertha  Dntcher, 
Sterling,  III. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


Bread  may  truthfully  be  considered  the  "  staff  of  life."  Quot- 
ing from  a  chemist  and  authority  on  the  subject,  "White  bread 
is  more  nearly  a  perfect  ration,  and  will  maintain  life  longer  than 
any  other  single  food;  because  its  tissue-forming  constituents,  the 
proteids  (gluten,  and  its  energy-yielding  portion,  the  carbohydrates 
(starch),  are  nearly  in  the  proportions  demanded  by  the  system. 
The  human  body  demands  from  the  food  daily  about  a  hundred 
grains  of  protein,  50  grains  of  fat,  and  450  grains  carbohydrate.  In 
100  grains  of  bread  there  are  7.8  grains  of  assimilable  protein,  1.3 
grains  of  fat,  and  53.1  grains  of  carbohydrate,  so  that  to  get 
the  necessary  amount  of  protein  from  bread  a  man  would  have  to 
eat  about  1,300  grains — about  three  pounds — a  day.  This  would  give 
35  grains  too  little  fat,  and  240  grains  too  much  carbohydrate,  but 
since  fat  and  carbohydrate  are  both  energy  formers,  and  to  a  certain 
extent  interchangeable,  the  variation  from  a  standard  diet  is  not 
great.  We  have  instinctively  recognized  these  facts  by  eating  our 
bread  with  butter — a  fat — or  taking  it  with  milk,  which  contains  a 
large  amount  of  proteid  and  fat."  To  make  good  bread  one  should 
have  good  flour — always  sifted  before  using — fresh  yeast,  pure  water 
or  scalded  milk,  sweet  butter  or  lard  where  shortening  is  used,  and 
a  good  oven.  The  flour  and  milk  or  water  should  all  be  of  the  same 
temperature,  70°,  when  mixed.  While  rising  the  bread  should  be  kept 
at  an  even  temperature  of  not  less  than  60°  and  not  more  than 
80°.  One  cup  of  yeast  means  wet  yeast,  and  is  equal  to  1  cake  of 
compressed  yeast.  In  making  bread  an  earthen  vessel  is  better  than 
wood,  tin  or  granite.  If  the  bread  does  not  rise  fast  enough  set 
the  crock  in  warm  water  kept  warm  by  the  addition  at  intervals  of 

97 


98 


BREADS — WARM   AND  COLD 


warmer  water.  After  bread  is  moulded  into  loaves  it  should  double 
its  bulk  before  being  baked.  Test  the  oven  by  sprinkling  a  little  flour 
on  a  paper  and  placing  in  it.  The  flour  should  take  on  a  good  color  in 
five  minutes  to  be  just  right  for  loaf  bread,  and  should  become  quite 
brown  in  three  minutes  to  be  hot  enough  for  rolls.  To  prevent  bread 
from  hardening  on  top  after  it  is  moulded  into  loaves  cover  with  a 
thin  cloth  wrung  out  of  water ;  or  if  it  has  been  moulded  into  round 
pans,  turn  crocks  over  the  pans.  If  the  dough  is  too  cold  and  is 
slow  in  rising,  warm  these  crocks  a  little  before  turning  them  over 
the  pans  and  they  will  hasten  the  rising.  Biscuits  mide  with  baking 
powder  and  sweet  milk,  or  part  milk  and  part  water,  need  not  be 
hurried  into  the  oven ;  in  fact  after  they  are  cut  out  and  placed  in 
the  baking  pan  they  are  nicer  if  allowed  to  rise  awhile  before  baking. 
They  may  even  be  made  in  the  evening  and  allowed  to  stand  till 
morning  before  being  baked. 

Biscuit. — Take  1  cup  sweet  cream,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  baking 
powder  and  salt  first  in  flour.  Then  add  cream  and  milk  and  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  on  board.  Mix 
as  little  as  possible.  Cut  out  and  bake  at  once,  in  hot  oven,  to  a 
light  brown. — Sister  Mate  W.  KriegJibaum,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Biscuits  without  Shortening. — Take  1  quart  of  sifted  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  lj^  pints  of  sour  cream,  in  which  stir  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  E.  Hodgden,  Hunting- 
ton, Ind. 

Cream  Biscuits. — Sift  1  quart  of  flour  with  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cream  to 
make  a  soft  dough ;  mix  well,  roll  thin,  cut  in  biscuits,  bake  in  a  very 
hot  oven. — Sister  Mamie  Viney,  Bath,  Ind. 

Drop  Biscuits. — Take  1  pint  sour  milk,  lard  the  size  of  an 
egg,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  T/z  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  ^ 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  stir  as  thick  as  you  can  with  a 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


99 


spoon.  Grease  your  pan  or  muffin  rings  and  drop  1  tablespoonful 
at  a  place. — Sister  Ida  Wampler  Mohler,  Leeton,  Mo. 

Good  Biscuits. — To  1  quart  of  flour  add  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  the  same  of  salt ;  about  %  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Sift  together  and  add  one  large  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  the  hand.  Into  this  stir,  with  a  spoon,  about 
2  cups  of  sour  milk  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  to  less 
than  y2  inch  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  In  case  the  milk  is  very 
sour,  use  a  little  more  soda. — Sister  Mattie  Mohler,  Warrensburg, 
Mo. 

Graham  Biscuits. — Dissolve  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  a  pint  of  thick  milk,  stir  into  this  with  a  spoon  enough  sifted 
graham  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter,  just  so  that  the  biscuits 
can  be  easily  dropped  by  spoonfuls  on  the  tin  a  few  inches  apart; 
bake  about  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Sallie  G.  Kline,  Rich- 
land  Station,  Pa. 

Graham  Biscuit. — Take  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of 
white  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast,  T/2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  rise  very  light,  then 
work  in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda;  cut  out 
as  for  other  biscuits,  and  bake. — Sister  I.  E.  Price,  Dallas  Center, 
Iowa. 

Maryland  Biscuits. — Take  5  pints  flour,  1  teacupful  of  lard, 
a  reasonable  amount  of  salt,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  y2 
pint  milk,  1  pint  water,  and  beat  hard  with  a  rolling  pin  J/2  hour. 
Make  out  by  hand  in  small  biscuits,  and  stick  with  a  fork  several 
times.  Bake  in  hot  oven. — Sister  Mary  A.  Weybright,  Double  Pipe 
Creek,  Md. 

One,  Two,  Three,  Four  Biscuit. — Take  4  cups  of  flour,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  shortening  and 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk.  This 
makes  fine  biscuit,  shortcake  or  potpie.— Sister  Lidu  N.  Miller, 
Firth,  Nebr. 


100 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Sweet  Biscuit. — Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  V/2  cups 

ot  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard  or  butter,  and  4  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Jennie  Nicholson,  Hillsdale, 
Pa. 

Tea  Biscuits. — Sift  together  1  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  with  1  pint  of 
sweet  cream  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Sue  Sisler,  Dallas  Cen- 
ter, Iozva. 

Breakfast  Gems. — Take  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  iy2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
beat  together  5  minutes.  Bake  in  gem  pans  15  minutes. — Sister 
Josie  Slonikcr,  Burr  oak,  Kans. 

Corn  Gems. — Take  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  lard  or  butter,  J/2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  eggs,  sugar 
and  butter  together. — Sister  IV.  J.  Swigart,  Huntingdon,  Pa. 

Graham  Gems. — Take  1  egg  beaten  lightly,  1  tablespoonful 
of  shortening,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water  in  a  pint  cup ;  then  £11  the  cup 
with  sweet  milk,  stir  all  together,  then  add  2  cups  of  graham  and  T/2 
cup  of  white  flour;  bake  in  gem  pans. — Sister  Sadie  S.  Young, 
Beatrice,  Nebr. 

Graham  Gems. — Take  1  pint  of  graham  flour,  1  pint  of  white 
flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  (about  what  you 
can  hold  between  thumb  and  first  finger)  ;  sift  all  these  together; 
add  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of  shortening,  and  2  cups  of 
sweet  milk;  heat  the  gem  pans  and  keep  them  where  they  will  re- 
main very  hot  while  putting  the  batter  in  them.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Sister  Hattie  Yodcr  Gilbert,  Los  Angles,  Cal. 

Graham  Gems. — Take  iy2  cups  of  sour  milk,  y2  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoonful  of  lard,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  wheat  flour,  3  cups  of  graham 
flour  sifted,  or  if  sweet  milk  is  used  instead  of  sour,  take  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder  instead  of  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  Bake 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


101 


in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Annie  R.  Stoner,  Union  Bridge, 
Md. 

Graham  Gems. — Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cup  of 
cream,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  2  eggs,  stir  well ;  add  1  cup 
each  of  graham  and  white  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder ;  stir  this  into  a  smooth  batter  with  sweet  milk. 
Bake  in  well  greased  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Laura 
Sniucker,  Timberville,  Va. 

Graham  Gems. — Take  1  cup  of  white  flour,  1  cup  of  graham 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  1  cup  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  melted,  a  little  salt,  T/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg. 
Bake. — Sister  Mary  E.  Shafer,  Trotwood,  Ohio. 

Graham  Gems. — Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  egg,  T/o  cup 
of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven. — Sister  Esther  H.  Sell,  Roaring  Springs,  Pa. 

Oatmeal  Gems. — Take  1  pint  of  oatmeal  soaked  over  night 
in  sweet  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in 
hot  gem  pans  20  minutes. — Sister  Margaret  Bricker,  Doixmsville, 
Md. 

Whole  Wheat  Gems. — Mix  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder  in  1  pint  of  whole  wheat  flour ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  fresh  lard,  1  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  then  add  last  the  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs.  Bake 
at  once  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. — Sister  S.  Cassie  Hoover, 
Bradford,  Ohio. 

Whole  Wheat  Gems. — Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  y2  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1   teaspoonful  of  soda, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  shortening,  and  1 
cup  of  white  flour.  Then  add  enough  whole  wheat  flour 
to  make  a  rather  soft  batter.  Have  gem  pans  greased  and  hot, 
when  the  batter  is  put  in.  Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  until 
nicely  brown. — Sister  Jennie  Xeher,  Mountain  Grove,  Mo. 


102 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Muffins. — Take  2  cups  of  buttermilk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter. 
Pour  through  a  funnel  into  hot  lard  and  fry  in  rings.  Serve  with 
maple  syrup. — Sister  May  Hoover,  Webster,  Ohio. 

Muffins. — Take  1  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  1  egg,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem 
or  muffin  tins  and  serve  with  maple  or  sugar  molasses. — Sister 
Mary  E.  Towslee,  Colby,  Kan's. 

Muffins  or  Turnovers. — Take  1  tin  of  flour,  1  tin  of  boiling 
water  poured  on  flour  and  mixed ;  stir  in  4  or  5  eggs  according  to 
size,  salt.  The  batter  will  not  be  smooth.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in 
boiling  hot  lard,  eat  while  warm  with  molasses. — Sister  M attic  0. 
Weaver,  Hinkletown,  Pa. 

Breakfast  Muffins. — Beat  1  egg,  add  to  it;  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (granulated  is  best),  and  a  large  pinch  of 
salt.  Stir  well,  then  sift  into  it  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  mixed  with  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix,  and  if  batter  is  not  stiff, 
add  a  little  more  flour.  Lastly,  stir  into  it  a  lump  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  which  has  been  previously  melted.  Bake  in  hot  oven  15 
minutes.  This  quantity  will  make  12  muffins. — Sister  Lillie  B. 
Cass  ell,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. — Take  2  eggs,  1  quart  of  buttermilk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  of  hot  water,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  batter.  Beat  the 
eggs  well,  add  them  to  the  buttermilk,  then  add  the  flour,  salt,  and 
soda.  Pour  in  muffin  pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Sister  Fannie 
Michael,  Greenland,  W.  Va. 

Corn  Muffins. — Take  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  pint 
of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  y2  cup  of  wheat  flour  and  1 
scant  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Drop  into  hot  muffin  rings  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. — Sister  Emma  G.  Reitz,  Fricdens,  Pa. 

Dyspeptic  Muffins, — Take  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  X 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


103 


tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  1  pint 
of  flour.  Drop  in  gem  pans  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — 
Sister  Grace  M.  Hileman  Miller,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

Gondaliers. — Put  2  ounces  of  butter  into  a  pan,  add  a  half 
pint  of  hot  water,  then  add  hastily  a  half  pint  of  flour.  Stir  until 
smooth,  take  from  fire ;  and  when  cool,  add  4  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Then  turn  into  a  pastry  bag.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  min- 
utes in  gem  pans.  If  dough  is  left  standing  for  some  time  it  will 
be  much  lighter.  While  these  are  baking,  boil  together  2  ounces  of 
chocolate,  2  cups  sugar  and  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Boil  until  it  forms 
soft  balls  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Then  spread  on  the  gon- 
daliers.— Sister  Mary  H.  Hoerner,  Auburn,  III. 

Pop  Overs. — Take  1  scant  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  fry  in  hot 
lard. — Sister  Malinda  S.  Geib,  Mastersonville,  Pa. 

Raised  Biscuit. — Take  1  pint  of  new  milk  scalded,  let  cool, 
add  a  piece  of  lard  and  butter  together  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
y2  cup  of  tepid  water,  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  stiff  froth ;  mix 
into  a  hard  loaf  in  the  evening,  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning, 
or  when  light,  mould  into  biscuit;  let  rise,  and  bake. — Sister  Amanda 
Brown,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Buns. — Take  2  cups  of  bread  sponge,  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  mix  well  to- 
gether, adding  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise  until 
very  light.  Mix  stiff.  Let  it  rise  again.  Make  into  biscuits.  Let 
rise  again,  and  bake. — Sister  Ida  M.  Saylor,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Buns. — At  noon  soak  1  yeast  cake,  then  add  1  quart  warm 
water,  1  egg,  1  small  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter.  Mix  to  a  stiff  batter, 
and  let  it  rise  till  bedtime.  Then  mix  not  quite  as  stiff  as  bread 
dough.  In  the  morning  mould  out  in  tins  and  let  rise  3  or  4  hours. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. — Sister  Eliza  Slifer  Cakericc,  Conrad,  Iowa. 


104 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Buns. — Take  2  cups  of  bread  raising,  1  cup  of  warm  water, 
24  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  it 
stiff.  Let  rise,  then  work  it  down  and  let  rise  again ;  make  it  into 
buns  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — 
Sister  J.  E.  Price,  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Breakfast  Buns. — Take  1  cup  of  bread  sponge,  2  cups  of 
luke-warm  water,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  cup  lard.  Mix  flour  in  and 
make  stiff  as  for  bread,  let  rise  till  night  in  a  cool  place,  and  before 
going  to  bed  make  into  little  cakes  and  place  on  greased  pans. 
Put  them  far  enough  from  each  other  to  have  plenty  of  room  to 
rise ;  let  rise  till  morning  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  before  breakfast. 
— Sister  Susie  M.  Blocker,  Greenville,  Ohio. 

Cellar  Buns. — Take  1  pint  of  potato  beer,  the  same  as  you 
use  for  baking  bread,  y2  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  lard,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  all  together,  mix  the  same  as 
for  bread,  put  in  the  cellar  to  rise  and  then  work  out  into  small 
cakes.  Set  them  again  in  the  cellar  to  rise  and  when  very  light 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  nice  and  brown. — Sister  Emma  Fish- 
er, Baltic,  Ohio. 

Cinnamon  Buns. — Set  aside  2  cups  of  dough  after  it  has  had 
the  second  rising  on  baking  day.  Cream  y2  cup  of  butter  and  y2 
cup  of  sugar  ;  to  this  add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  work  these  into 
the  dough.  Add  y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  (scant) 
of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  y2  cup  of  currants  dredged  with 
flour.  Knead  diligently  for  five  minutes,  make  out  into  buns  and 
let  them  rise  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they  have  doubled  the  orig- 
inal bulk,  before  baking.  Cover  for  the  first  half  hour  they  are  in 
the  oven;  then  brown. — Sister  Emma  T.  Boone,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Currant  Buns. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of 
currents  and  a  little  salt.  Use  milk  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft 
as  for  biscuits.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister 
Sadie  Shank,  Downsville,  Md. 

Potato  Buns. — Take  1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  of 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


105 


sugar,  %  cup  of  lard,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  yeast  and  a  little  salt.  Mix 
the  above  ingredients  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  batter  as  for 
cake.  Set  this  sponge  after  dinner  and  about  bedtime  mix  as  stiff 
as  bread  dough.  Grease  thoroughly  and  let  rise  over  night.  Early 
in  the  morning  mould  and  let  rise  again ;  when  very  light,  bake. — 
Sister  Anna  Brown,  Winchester,  Va. 

Rice  Rolls,  or  Buns. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
cooked  rice,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,* and  4 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  Make  up  stiff  in  the  evening.  Next 
morning  knead  and  let  rise  again.  Then  make  out  in  rolls  and  put 
in  pans.  When  ready  for  the  oven,  beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  mix  with 
a  little  sugar,  and  spread  on  top.  These  are  fine  for  afternoon 
lunch,  and  if  directions  are  followed,  they  are  sure  to  be  good. — 
Sister  Alice  L.  Powell,  Polo,  III. 

Rowland  Buns, — Take  1  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  y2  cup  of 
lard,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  yeast,  a  little  salt.  In  warm  weather 
make  up  about  10  A.  M.,  work  until  smooth,  set  away  to  rise,  cover 
closely  to  avoid  heavy  crust.  In  the  evening  late  work  into  tiny 
rolls  and  place  in  pans  not  too  close  together,  set  away  until  morn- 
ing; then  as  soon  as  you  can  heat  your  oven,  bake  20  minutes. — 
Sister  Jas.  M.  Rowland,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

Sweet  Buns. — Take  2  cups  of  bread  sponge,  1  cup  of  warm 
milk  and  a  little  flour.  Stir  up  like  pancakes  and  set  to  rise.  When 
light  stir  in  }i  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  lard  and  a  little  salt.  Add 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff  like  bread  dough  and  let  get  very  light 
before  making  out  in  buns.  After  made  into  buns  let  get  very 
light  before  putting  in  oven.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
— Sister  Viola  Sheeler,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. — Take  a  portion  of  your  raised  dough,  roll 
out  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  spread  thickly  with  butter, 
sprinkle  over  this  a  generous  amount  of  sugar  and  cinnamon,  roll 
up  and  cut  crosswise  into  slices  }4  or  }i  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Place  in  a  well-greased  pan ;  let  rise  again,  and  bake. — Sister  Mamie 
Sink,  Lenox,  Iowa. 


106 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Cinnamon  Rolls. — When  baking  bread,  and  it  is  ready  to 
mould  in  the  pans,  take  out  dough  the  size  of  a  medium-sized  loaf ; 
mix  into  it  1  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  add  more  flour 
and  knead  smooth;  then  roll  down  to  about  1  inch  thick,  spread 
over  with  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon;  then  make  into  a  roll,  slice 
in  cakes  about  one  inch  thick,  and  place  them  in  a  baking  pan  close 
together ;  let  rise  very  light ;  again  spread  over  with  butter,  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Bake  quickly  as  light  buns. — Sister  M.  Lizzie 
Demmy,  Astoria,  III. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. — Sift  together  1  pint  of  flour,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Rub 
in  2  tablespoons  butter,  mix  with  milk  to  soft  dough.  Roll  out  y2 
inch  thick,  spread  with  soft  butter,  granulated  sugar  and  powdered 
cinnamon.  Roll  up  like  jelly  roll,  cut  in  inch  slices,  lay  close  to- 
gether in  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Sister  Anna  W. 
Frantz,  Raisin,  Cal. 

Astor  House  Rolls. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  boiled  and 
while  warm  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  y2  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  When 
light,  put  in  a  little  more  salt  and  knead  15  minutes;  let  rise  again, 
roll  out  and  cut  into  round  cakes,  spread  each  with  butter  and  fold 
one  half  over  the  other  half.  Put  into  pans  and  when  light  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Kate  Moore  Strickler,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Graham  Rolls. — Scald  graham  flour  with  boiling  salted 
water,  making  a  rather  soft  dough,  that  can  be  handled  after  it  is 
turned  onto  the  moulding  board.  While  pouring  the  water,  stir  the 
dough  briskly  with  a  pot  stick.  Have  the  moulding  board  well 
sprinkled  with  bolted  flour.  Knead  quickly  until  smooth,  putting  on 
more  flour  as  needed.  Roll  convenient  portions  of  the  dough  to  the 
thickness  of  iy2  inches,  flatten  slightly  with  the  hands,  prick  and  cut 
into  lengths  of  three  or  four  inches.  Be  sure  the  oven  is  hot  when 
put  in.  After  they  rise,  let  the  heat  be  a  little  less.  We  usually 
bake  them  on  the  grate  and  turn  them  as  soon  as  well  raised.  Bake 


\ 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


107 


from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  The  better  the  quality  of  the  flour, 
the  less  stiff  the  dough  will  need  to  be. — Sister  Phoebe  Zook,  Mat- 
tazvana,  Pa. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Take  1  cup  of  yeast,  1  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  and 
flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Put  the  milk  on  the  stove  to  scald 
and  put  the  butter  in  it.  Mix  the  salt,  sugar  and  yeast  into  the 
flour  and  add  the  milk,  being  careful  not  to  put  it  in  too  hot.  Mix 
up  at  night  and  knead  thoroughly  then.  Knead  only  lightly  in  the 
morning,  roll  to  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out  with  large  cookie 
cutter,  spread  with  butter  and  fold  one  half  over  the  other.  Let  rise 
again  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  very  fine. — Sister  Rachel 
Armey,  Big  Timber,  Mont. 

Rice  Rolls. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  pint  of  fresh  yeast, 
1  teacupful  of  sugar,  1  teacupful  of  boiled  rice,  2  eggs,  shortening 
the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt  and  flour  as  for  other  rolls.  Let  rise 
several  times  before  moulding,  then  let  rise  light  before  baking. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. — Sister  Emma  Newcomer,  Lanark,  III. 

Sweet  Potato  Rolls. — Take  2  pounds  of  boiled  sweet  po- 
tatoes, mashed  very  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  yeast, 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  pinch  of  salt.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Let  rise  till  light,  then  cut  into  any  shape  desired,  put 
into  pan  and  let  rise  one  hour  and  bake.  Irish  potatoes  can  be  used 
in  same  way. — Sister  Cassie  Martin,  Bloom,  Kans. 

Tea  Rolls. — Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough,  roll  out  an  inch 
thick,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  cover  thick  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon ;  commence  at  one  side  and  roll  up ;  then  cut  in  pieces  an 
inch  thick,  lay  in  a  well-buttered  pan  as  biscuits  and  bake  20  minutes. 
— Sister  Annie  G.  Falls,  Dayton,  Va. 

Bread  Dough  Cinnamon  Cake. — When  bread  is  ready  to  put 
into  the  pans,  take  a  small  piece  of  the  dough,  roll  it  a  little  thicker 
than  for  pie ;  lay  it  on  a  greased  pie  plate,  spread  over  it  a  little  but- 
ter,  sprinkle  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  over  it,  let  it  rise  a  little, 
then  bake  till  a  light  brown  color.  This  is  best  when  eaten  fresh. — 
Sister  G.  R.  Goughnour,  Middlebranch,  Ohio-. 


108 


BREADS — WARM   AND  COLD 


Coffee  Cake. — Take  1  pint  of  bread  sponge,  2/z  cup  of  A 
sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  raisins  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  mix  in 
flour  to  make  stiff  enough  so  as  not  to  stick  to  the  hands.  Let  rise 
till  very  light,  mould  out  on  pans,  and  put  melted  butter,  sugar  and 
cinnamon  on  top.  Let  rise  again  till  light  and  then  bake  slowly 
about  30  minutes,  or  according  to  size  of  your  cake. — Sister  Susie 
M.  Blocker,  Greenville,  Ohio. 

Coffee  Cake  (Hygienic). — On  bake  day  take  1  cup  of  the 
sponge,  add  ^2  cup  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Stir  with  a  strong  spoon,  adding  flour  until  a  stiff  dough  or 
batter  is  obtained.  (Do  not  mix  with  your  hands.)  When  light, 
stir  down,  and  when  light  again,  put  in  two  cake  pans.  (You  will 
find  it  a  little  difficult  to  spread,  as  it  is  rubber-like,  but  moisten  the 
spoon,  and  your  fingers,  to  prevent  sticking  then  you  can  readily 
spread  it  over  the  tins.)  When  light,  prepare  a  top  dressing  with 
flour,  sugar  and  butter,  as  for  crumb  pie,  and  put  on  top  with  a 
liberal  sprinkling  of  cinnamon.  Have  the  oven  medium  hot  and 
bake  quickly  but  not  overdone.  This  delicacy  can  be  attended  to 
when  you  attend  to  the  bread  and  will  not  make  much  extra  trouble. 
— Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

A  Dakota  Delicacy. — Take  light  bread  dough,  after  it  is 
ready  for  light  cakes,  a  piece  as  large  as  a  pint  cup.  Work  into 
the  dough  %  teacup  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Roll  the 
size  of  pie  pan.  Cover  the  top  neatly  with  butter.  Add  to 
butter  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Then  let  rise  till  perfectly  light.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Sister  Caroline  Culp,  Carrington,  N.  Dak. 

Cream  Rusks. — Take  1  pint  of  warm  water,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  rich  cream,  1  pint  of  yeast,  or  1  yeast  cake  previously  dis- 
solved in  warm  water,  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  If  wanted 
for  dinner,  set  to  rise  the  evening  before ;  if  desired  for  tea,  for 
which  no  bread  is  better,  set  early  in  the  morning.  After  it  has 
risen  sufficiently,  or  over  night,  work  it  down  several  times.  This 
gives  the  dough  a  very  light  and  fluffy  feeling  and  makes  the  rusks 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


109 


perfect  in  sponginess.  When  ready  to  bake,  roll  about  1  inch  in 
thickness,  cut  with  a  cake  cutter  like  biscuits,  put  in  a  buttered  pan, 
let  rise  and  bake  in  an  oven  heated  about  the  same  as  for  biscuits. 
If  desired,  sprinkle  with  sugar  when  taken  from  the  oven. — Sister 
Flora  Teague,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

Potato  Rusks. — Take  1  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  of 
yeast,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs.  Mix  potatoes, 
yeast  and  y2  of  the  sugar  in  the  evening  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs ; 
work  up  same  as  bread  dough ;  let  rise  till  light,  then  roll  out,  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  put  on  tins  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Sister  Sallie  E.  Keifer,  Palmyra,  Pa. 

Sweet  Rusks. — Take  1  quart  of  warm  milk  (new  is  best), 
1  cup  of  butter.  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  y2 
cake  of  yeast  foam ;  dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  very  little  warm  water 
and  stir  to  a  paste ;  make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  ;  let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place; 
in  the  morning  add  the  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  and  salt,  well  beaten 
together,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  let  it  rise  again, 
then  make  into  round  balls  and  let  rise  a  third  time ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Sister  Mary  Wallace,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Brown  Bread. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  2  cups  of 
graham  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  y2  cup  of  hot 
water.    Mix  and  steam  2  hours. — Sister  Lucy  Magie,  Tropico,  Cal. 

Brown  Bread. — Take  1  quart  of  corn  meal  after  it  is  sifted, 
1  pint  of  flour,  1  quart  of  sour  milk,  iy2  pints  of  molasses,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Steam  3  hours  and  then 
bake  just  enough  to  brown  the  top. — Sister  Nancy  Babcock,  Nora 
Springs,  Iowa. 

Brown  Bread. — Take  3  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour, 
1  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  4  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  4  or  5  hours. — Sister  Kate  Royer, 
Celina,  Ohio. 


110 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Brown  Bread. — Take  V/2  cups  of  sour  milk  and  y2  cup  of 
molasses ;  into  these  put  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  cups  of 
corn  meal,  1  cup  of  graham  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour 
into  a  covered  mold  and  steam  for  3  hours. — Sister  Laura  E.  Goetze, 
Saratoga,  Wyo. 

Brown  Bread. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  corn  meal, 

y2  cup  of  molasses,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  with  sour  milk 
so  it  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  Steam  3  hours. — Sister  Lizzie 
Mineely,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

A  Good  Brown  Bread. — Take  2  cups  of  sifted  graham  flour, 
1  cup  of  white  flour,  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  2/$  of  a  cup  of  sorghum  or 
New  Orleans  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
sour  milk  enough  to  mix  rather  stiff.  Place  in  a  well-greased  pan, 
filling  not  more  than  2/z  full,  place  over  pan  a  cover  also  greased — I 
use  an  inverted  pie  plate — and  set  in  a  steamer  ;  place  cover  on 
steamer  and  set  it  over  a  kettle  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  steam 
not  less  than  3  hours.  Boiling  water,  greased  pan,  steamer,  etc., 
should  all  be  in  readiness  before  mixing  is  done,  as  standing  after 
mixing  allows  the  meal  to  swell  and  spoils  the  loaf  more  or  less. 
Do  not  allow  the  water  to  stop  boiling  till  bread  is  done ;  set  in  an 
oven  to  dry  off  a  few  minutes ;  serve  hot.  Any  that  is  left  over 
may  be  made  as  palatable  as  the  fresh  by  returning  to  the  steamer 
till  heated  through. — Sister  Gallop,  Rediield,  Kans. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  1  pint  sour  cream,  1  pint  sweet  milk, 
4  eggs,  y2  cup  of  lard  or  melted  suet,  y2  pint  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  corn  meal  to  make  a  not  too 
stiff  batter.  Bake  in  gem  irons  or  in  a  cake  dish  with  tube  in  the 
center. — Sister  Maggie  E.  Harrison,  Coneniaugh,  Pa. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  of  melted  butter  or  3  of  sweet 
cream,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  with  sweet  milk,  not  too  stiff,  and 
bake. — Sister  Lizzie  Lichty,  Morrill,  Kans. 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


111 


Corn  Bread. — Take  1  pint  of  bolted  corn  meal,  1  pint  wheat 
flour,  1  pint  thick  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Stir  all  together,  then  add  1  teaspoonful  soda  stirred  in 
a  little  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Mell  E.  Wenger, 
South  Bend,  Ind. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  1 
cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
molasses,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda ; 
shortening  the  size  of  an  egg. — Sister  Ida  M.  Eshelman,  Elgin,  III. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  3  eggs,  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  y>  cup  of 
sugar,  24  cup  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
beat  sugar  and  eggs  well  together  and  stir  in  the  lard ;  thoroughly 
dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Make  a  batter  about  the  thickness 
of  soft  gingerbread  with  y2  flour  and  V2  corn  meal ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  y2  hour. — Sister  Rachel  Myers,  Ore  Hill,  Pa. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  y>  pint  of  corn  meal,  y2  pint  of  wheat 
flour,  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  egg,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
y>  teacupful  of  sugar,  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  beat  egg, 
sugar  and  butter  together .  light ;  add  all  the  flour,  salt  and  soda, 
dry.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Annie  R. 
Stoner,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  2  cups  of  buttermilk,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sorghum  molasses,  %  of  a  cup  of  sifted  graham  flour,  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  and  \y2  cups  of  corn  meal. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Rachel  C.  Merchant,  Laporte,  Ind. 

Fine  Corn  Bread. — Take  3  heaping  teacupfuls  of  corn  meal, 
1  teacupful  of  wheat  flour,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  24  teacupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  \y2  pints  of  sour  milk.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
the  milk.  The  cream  of  tartar  should  be  mixed  with  the  flour  while 
dry.  Pour  the  batter  into  pans  to  the  depth  of  \y2  inches.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven;  serve  while  warm. — Sister  W.  P.  Englar,  Uniontozvn, 
Md. 

I 


112 


BREADS— WARM   AND  COLD 


A  Nice  Corn  Bread. — Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 

sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  butter,  \]/2  cups  of  corn  meal,  y2  cup  of  wheat 
flour,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  the  sugar  and 
butter  into  a  cream,  then  add  eggs,  mixing  well.  Mix  the  baking 
powder  in  the  flour,  put  all  together,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
stir  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Anna  Bolender,  Day- 
ton, Ohio. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of 
flour,  2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  2y2  hours  and  dry 
in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour. — Sister  Mary  E.  Towslee,  Colby,  Kans. 

Johnny  Cake. — Sift  a  quart  of  corn  meal  into  a  pan,  make 
a  hole  in  the  middle  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  3  of  sugar ; 
stir  about  in  some  of  the  meal  and  then  add  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter or  lard.  Then  pour  in  hot  or  scalding  water  (not  lukewarm), 
make  very  stiff  and  pat  out  smoothly  with  hands.  Bake  in  hot  oven, 
or  in  spider  on  top  of  stove,  or  upright  on  the  hearth  before  a  clear 
fire.  When  well  done  split  open  and  butter  the  halves  while  hot. 
Most  excellent  with  honey  and  milk. — Sister  Mary  Gibson,  Des 
Moines,  Iozva. 

Mush  Bread. — Put  1  pint  of  milk  into  a  pan ;  when  it  is  hot 
put  in  34  cup  of  corn  meal,  just  as  if  you  were  making  mush.  Add 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  cock  it  well.  Take  from  fire  and  add  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  carefully.  Beat  whites  and  add  to 
mixture.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot  and  do  not  remove  from  pan. — Sister 
Mary  H.  Hoerner,  Auburn,  III. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
3  eggs,  %  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  y,  of  wheat  flour  and  Yz  of  corn  meal  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Lizzie  Warble,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  wrheat  flour, 
1  pint  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.    If  butter- 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


113 


milk  or  part  cream  is#used,  not  much  butter  is  needed. — Sister  Ida 
A.  Bonsack,  Westminster,  Aid. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  1  cup  of  white  flour,  1  cup  of  corn  meal, 
y2  cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  lard  size  of  a 
walnut,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  meal  and 
sugar  together;  rub  in  the  lard  cold,  add  salt  and  mix  with  a  cup 
of  cold  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Sallie  E.  Kiefer, 
Palmyra,  Pa. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  y2 
cup  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of  melted  lard,  1  egg,  1  even  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Take  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.    Then  bake  till  done. — Sister  Ida  E„  Gibble,  Lykens,  Pa. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  J/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of 
wheat  flour,  and  1  pint  of  corn  meal.  Stir  well  together  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. — Sister  Anna  G.  Reitz, 
Friedens,  Pa. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  2  cupfuls  of  corn  meal,  2  cupfuls  of 
wheat  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  melted  butter.  Add  1  beaten 
egg,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda;  mix  with 
enough  fresh  buttermilk  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  butter. — Sister  Alice  Smith,  Rock- 
ton,  Pa. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  sour,  or 
buttermilk,  *4  cup  of  lard,  2  eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and  corn  meal 
enough  to  make  a  batter,  not  too  stiff,  and  a  little  salt  and  1  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Mix  and  bake  brown. — Sister  Lizzie  G.  Arnold, 
Albert  City,  Iozva. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
y2  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well 
together,  then  add  2  eggs  and  \y2  cups  of  good  sour  cream  with  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Have  the  batter  about  the  thickness 
of  loaf  cake  and  bake  20  or  30  minutes. — Sister  Daniel  Hoover, 
Washburn,  Iowa. 


114  BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 

Corn  Pone. — Take  2  cups  of  corn  mqal,  1  cup  of  flour,  1 

cup  each  of  sweet  and  sour  milk,  y2  cup  of  sorghum  molasses,  1 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  egg,  salt  to  taste,  and  y2  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  not  too  shallow  pan  for 
about  40  minutes. — Sister  Lydia  Backer,  Astoria,  III. 

Corn  Pone. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  V/2  pints  of  sweet 
milk,  2  pints  of  corn  meal,  y2  pint  of  wheat  flour,  3  eggs,  and  1 
tablespoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  or  season  to  suit  taste,  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. — Sister  E.  S.  Moore,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Old-Fashioned  Corn  Pone. — Make  3  pints  of  corn  meal  mush. 
Cool  this  with  y2  gallon  of  water ;  thicken  this  with  meal  until  it  is 
as  stiff  as  dough.  Put  in  a  pint  of  flour,  and  salt  to  taste.  Make 
this  up  in  the  morning,  and  let  rise  until  the  afternoon.  Thicken 
a  little  more  with  corn  meal  and  put  in  a  greased  pan.  Place  in  a 
hot  oven  and  bake  a  little  longer  than  common  corn  bread. — Sister 
Eliza  Weaver,  Sinking  Spring,  Ohio. 

Soft  Corn  Bread. — Take  ^4  of  a  quart  of  corn  meal,  ^4  quart 
of  wheat  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  1  level  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
Pour  over  this  enough  boiling  water  to  make  into  a  stiff  paste,  add 
2  eggs  and  thin  with  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Lastly,  add  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  about  forty  minutes.  This 
will  be  of  fine  grain  and  will  stay  soft.  Eat  with  butter  or  syrup. 
If  any  is  left  over,  it  can  be  sliced  out  and  fried. — Sister  W .  E. 
Prigel,  Gittings,  Md. 

Graham  Bread. — Make  a  beer  and  sponge  it  with  white  flour 
as  you  would  for  white  bread.  When  it  is  light  add  graham  flour 
till  it  is  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir  with  a  spoon.  Let  this  rise.  When 
light  mix  stiff  with  white  flour  or  graham  flour  whichever  you  pre- 
fer. Let  rise  again  and  mold  into  loaves.  Make  small  loaves  and 
put  them  into  round  pans ;  let  rise  again  and  bake  one  hour. — Sister 
Maggie  Waggoner,  Celina,  Ohio. 

Nut  Bread. — Take  1  cup  of  nuts,  either  rolled  or  ground,  2 
cups  of  sour  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  white  flour,  1  tablespoonful 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


115 


of  melted  shortening,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-  powder,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water. — Sister 
Emma  T.  Boone,  Pasadena,  Col. 

Nut  Bread. — Sift  3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
5  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  together,  then  add  y2  cup  of  sugar. 
1  scant  cup  of  milk,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and  lastly  1  cup  of  floured 
nuts. — Sister  Edna  Crowe,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Economical  Way  to  Use  Dry  Bread. — Soak  dry  bread  in 
water  for  several  hours,  or  until  it  becomes  soft,  then  with  the  hands 
work  it  into  a  pulpy  mass ;  stir  in  more  flour  and  water  with  a  cup 
of  yeast ;  let  rise,  and  it  will  be  a  good  bread  sponge  for  light  bread. 
— Sister  M.  C.  White  set,  Wayside,  Wash. 

Bread. — Take  6  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  fine,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  boiling  water  enough  to  make  3  quarts 
of  sponge;  stir  in  flour  until  thick;  when  cold  add  yeast;  let  it  rise 
till  morning,  then  add  flour  to  stiffen,  work  smooth,  let  rise,  work 
down,  then  mold  into  pans,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Sister  Perry  Broadzvater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Bread. — For  the  yeast  take  1  handful  of  good  rivels,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  handful  of  flour,  stir 
in  about  1  pint  of  lukewarm  water.  Leave  it  a  day  or  so  in  a  cool 
place ;  then  in  the  evening  before  you  want  to  bake,  take  3  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  pare  and  boil  till  soft ;  take  out  the  potatoes,  put  a 
small  handful  of  hops  in  the  potato  water.  Let  the  hops  boil  a 
short  time ;  mash  the  potatoes,  add  1  big  spoonful  of  flour,  salt,  and 
sugar ;  strain  the  hops  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  flour  and 
potatoes;  then  put  in  water  until  the  whole  is  lukewarm  (it  will  take 
about  a  quart  of  water),  then  pour  it  in  your  yeast  can,  stir  well 
together.  Let  it  sit  over  night.  In  the  morning  take  out  about  1 
pint  of  potato  beer  for  the  next  baking;  take  the  rest  of  the  beer, 
strain,  stir  in  flour  till  it  stirs  nicely ;  let  it  stand  till  it  is  light,  then 
put  in  flour,  knead  it  stiff ;  let  it  rise,  then  put  it  in  pans ;  let  rise 
till  light,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. — Sister  G.  R. 
Goiighnour,  Middlebranch,  Ohio. 


116 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Bread. — Put  the  flour  in  a  warm,  dry  place  in  an  open  pan 
to  dry  thoroughly  before  using.  Take  1  quart  of  warm  water,  1 
small  teacupful  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter  ;  let  rise 
over  night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  wannest  weather  let  rise  about 
3  hours ;  then  add  flour  enough  to  knead  without  sticking  to  the  pan, 
knead  y2  hour ;  set  to  rise  again,  when  risen  sufficiently,  knead  10 
minutes  without  using  more  flour ;  mold  into  loaves ;  set  to  rise,  and 
bake  1  hour. — Sister  Amy  Roop  Shaw,  Westminster,  Md. 

Good  Bread. — At  night  take  1  pint  of  potato  water,  some- 
times the  potatoes,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  1  of  yeast  dis- 
solved in  lukewarm  water.  Pour  into  a  crock  potato  water,  yeast, 
sugar  and  one  sifter  of  flour.  Next  morning  take  three  sifters  of 
flour  (warm  flour  always),  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Pour  in  the 
yeast  and  1  pint  of  water.  Mix  stiff,  let  rise,  knead  and  let  rise  again 
and  make  into  loaves.  Then  let  rise  until  when  dented  it  stays 
dented.    It  is  then  ready  to  bake. — Sister  Edna  Shearer,  Girard,  III. 

Good  Light  Bread. — To  make  a  good  light  bread,  boil  6 
good-sized  potatoes  till  tender,  pour  all  into  a  vessel  containing  2 
large  spoonfuls  of  flour,  mash  all  together  until  smooth,  then  add 
cold  water  till  milk  warm.  Add  about  iy2  pints  of  good  fresh  hop 
yeast ;  set  it  to  rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  warm  it  slightly  and 
strain  through  a  colander  into  the  flour  in  the  tray,  making  a  thin 
sponge;  let  it  rise  till  light;  then  salt  to  taste  and  put  in  a  large 
handful  of  sugar,  knead  moderately  stiff,  and  when  light,  mold  into 
loaves. — Sister  L.  Schock,  Huntington,  Ind. 

Good  Light  Bread. — Take  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  1  yeast  cake  that  has  been  previously  soaked  in  warm  water, 
1  quart  of  lukewarm  whey;  stir  in  iy2  pints  of  sifted  flour;  let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  1  quart  more  of  whey,  stir  in  flour 
until  it  is  the  consistency  of  pancake  batter ;  let  rise  till  very  light, 
then  knead  to  a  stiff  dough ;  after  standing  an  hour,  work  down, 
then  when  it  is  nicely  risen  knead  into  loaves ;  let  rise  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  40  minutes.    After  removing  from 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


117 


the  oven,  rub  a  little  lard  over  eadh  loaf. — Sister  Jennie  Neher, 
Mountain  Grove,  Mo. 

Good  Light  Bread. — Soak  1  cake  of  yeast  in  a  cup  of  luke- 
warm water  for  2  hours  in  summer ;  then  stir  in  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter  and  let  stand  until  light,  say  about  2  hours.  In  the 
evening  when  getting  supper  peel  and  cook  2  or  3  medium-sized 
potatoes  in  plenty  of  water.  When  done  mash  in  the  water  they 
were  cooked  in ;  if  too  thick  put  some  more  water  in  to  make  thin. 
Before  going  to  bed  stir  the  yeast  in  this.  In  the  morning  put  what 
flour  you  need  in  the  bake  pan,  then  pour  this  potato  and  yeast  in 
and  stir  a  batter  tolerably  thick.  Let  this  rise  until  very  light,  make 
up  stiff,  let  rise  again,  work  down  and  let  rise  again.  Then  mould 
out  in  pans,  let  rise  again  and  when  light  bake. — Sister  Delia  Smith, 
Eldora,  Iowa. 

Light  Bread. — Use  good  home-made  rivels.  To  two  parts 
water  use  one  part  whey  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  salt,  sugar  and 
lard  to  each  half  gallon  of  liquid.  Mix  to  a  stiff  batter  in  the  even- 
ing. In  the  morning  work  stiff  and  knead  well.  Let  rise,  then 
work  in  loaves,  let  rise  light,  and  bake  34  to  1  hour,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  loaves.  In  cold  weather  leave  part  of  the  water  until 
morning  to  stir  in  hot.  Stir  briskly  so  you  won't  scald  the  sponge. — 
Sister  Florence  Hays  Kline,  Broadway,  Va. 

Perfect  White  Bread. — Take  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast, — 
if  this  cannot  be  had,  use  dry  yeast, — break  up  fine  and  dissolve  in 
a  cup  of  lukewarm  water.  Take  3  pints  of  milk  and  water  (half 
of  each)  and  put. into  a  large  pan,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt 
and  same  amount  of  sugar.  Now  stir  in  the  dissolved  yeast 
and  add  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Knead  until  it  will  not 
stick  to  bread  board.  Set  to  rise.  As  soon  as  light  knead  again  for 
about  T/2  hour,  then  make  into  loaves  and  put  into  pans  and  let  rise. 
After  it  is  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  a  small 
baking  and  requires  no  work  in  the  evening  previous  to  baking. — 
Sister  Minnie  Mae  Cripe,  Delphi,  Ind. 


118 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Light  Bread  without  Potatoes. — Soak  y2  cup  of  yeast  in  a 
little  warm  water  at  supper  time.  Then  before  bedtime  take  3 
pints  of  lukewarm  water.  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  two  pounds 
of  flour ;  stir  all*  together.  It  should  be  a  little  thicker  than  pancake 
dough.  When  the  yeast  is  soaked  and  light  add  to  above  batter  and 
let  it  rise  until  morning,  or  until  it  is  light.  Then  add  1  pint  of 
warm  water  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar,  salt  and  lard.  Sift 
about  3  pounds  of  flour  into  a  pan  or  dough  tray,  pour  the  sponge 
into  the  flour  and  knead  it  stiff,  or  about  15  minutes  kneading.  Set 
in  a  warm  place,  let  rise  until  it  is  light,  then  knead  down.  Let 
rise  again,  mold  into  loaves  and  put  into  pans.  Let  rise  until  light, 
then  bake  about  one  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Then  take  out 
of  pans  and  put  on  a  table  or  board  and  grease  the  loaves  slightly 
while  hot,  with  butter  or  lard. — Sister  Mary  E.  Ritter,  Crescent, 
Okld. 

Quickly  Made  Salt-Rising  Bread. — Pour  boiling  sweet  milk 
on  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  meal  and  stir  to  a  smooth  pa^te. 
Then  set  this  snugly  covered  in  a  real  warm  place  over  night.  The 
next  morning  this  should  be  swelled  up  light.  Heat  half  a  cupful 
of  sweet  milk  and  cool  to  a  good  warm  temperature,  not  scalding, 
with  a  cupful  of  water.  Into  this  stir  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of 
soda,  a  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  the  light  corn  meal  and  flour  for 
a  smooth  batter.  Set  this  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water  snugly  covered 
till  it  foams  up  twice  the  size  of  first  quantity.  Next  take  a  deep 
pan  or  bowl  and  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  pint  of  warm  water,  the 
light  sponge  and  flour  to  make  a  smooth,  stiff  batter.  Sift  over  this 
one  inch  of  flour,  set  contents  in  warm  water  snugly  covered,  and 
when  the  sponge  breaks  through  all  over  and  at  the  edges,  sift  a 
pile  of  flour  on  the  moulding-board  and  pour  out  on  it  the  light 
sponge,  catching  it  up  and  kneading  it  up  into  a  soft  mass.  Pinch 
into  three  loaves  and  put  into  greased  pan.  allowing  an  inch  for 
rising;  grease  top  of  loaves  with  butter.  When  risen  to  top  of  pan 
bake  forty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  31.  31.  Cooney,  Nebr. 

To  Make  Light  Bread. — Take  4  good-sized  potatoes,  boil 
until  done  and  mash  in  another  dish ;  pour  potato  water  over  pota- 


BREADS — WARM   AND  COLD 


119 


toes  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  still  slightly  warm  add  1  yeast 
cake,  j/2  cup  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  and  let  foam,  it  should  foam  within  twenty-four  hours.  Take 
potato  water  and  a  few  potatoes  the  evening  before  you  want  to 
bake  and  add  above  to  it.  Let  sit  over  night.  The  first  thing  in  the 
morning  stir  mixture  and  take  out  a  pint  and  a  half  of  liquid  and 
place  in  quart  fruit  jar,  adding  y2  yeast  cake  and  place  in  cool  cellar 
to  use  next  baking  day.  Xow  add  sufficient  water  to  remaining 
liquid  to  make  baking  as  large  as  desired  and  mix  stiff.  Let  rise 
till  light  and  make  into  loaves.  Let  rise  again  and  bake. — Sister 
Zehna  Bosscrman,  Bitrkcy,  X.  Dak. 

To  Make  Bread  with  Spook  Yeast. — Spook  yeast  is  a  liquid, 
and  what  we  like  about  it  is  that  it  takes  less  time  and  trouble  than 
other  kinds  of  bread.  After  the  yeast  is  started  some  should  be 
saved  from  one  baking,  to  bake  with  the  next  time,  by  sealing  it  up 
in  a  fruit  jar.  To  make  it,  take  1  cake  of  yeast  foam  and  soak  in 
1  cup  of  warm,  unsalted  potato  beer ;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  set  in  a  very  warm  place,  just  warm  enough  that  it  does  not 
scald.  Stir  now  and  then,  and  if  it  does  not  foam  inside  of  5 
hours,  it  is  very  likely  no  good,  and  should  be  started  again  with 
new  yeast.  In  about  24  hours  it  will  be  ready  to  use.  Strain  out 
the  corn  meal,  and  at  noon  add  3  cups  of  potato  beer,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  beer  that  is  added.  Stir  off  and  on, 
and  see  that  it  foams.  Let  it  stand  till  evening,  and  just  before 
going  to  bed,  mix  up  the  bread.  Take  3  cups  of  water,  or  less  if 
less  bread  is  wanted  and  more  for  more  bread,  1  tablespoonful  each 
of  lard  and  salt,  3  cups  of  the  yeast  (seal  up  the  remaining  cup  and 
set  in  the  cellar,  or  some  other  cool  place)  and  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff,  but  not  quite  as  stiff  as  other  bread  dough.  Put  all  together 
and  knead  well.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  Make  into  loaves  the  first 
thing  in  the  morning  the  earlier  the  better.  Let  it  rise  3  or  4  hours, 
or  until  very  light,  and  bake  1  hour.  This  makes  5  loaves  of  bread. 
This  kind  of  bread  will  stand  more  rising  than  other  bread.  The 
second  time  you  bake,  open  the  jar  of  yeast,  and  put  in  potato  beer 
as  before. — Sister  Olive  M.  Heckman,  Polo,  III. 


120 


BREADS — WARM   AND  COLD 


White  Bread. — Pare  and  cook  3  medium-sized  potatoes  in 
1  quart  of  water ;  when  soft  scald  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  with 
the  potato  water;  mash  the  potatoes  fine  and  mix  with  the  scalded 
flour;  when  cool,  add  1  quart  of  warm  water  and  1  cup  of  home- 
made yeast  (which  has  been  soaked)  or  %  ca^e  of  yeast  foam,  let 
stand  over  night  and  add  1  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  let  rise  and  stir 
down  2  or  3  times ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  mix  with  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  y2  hour, 
mix  down  and  let  rise  again ;  shape  into  loaves  and  bake  1  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Graham  bread :  Make  same  as  for  white  bread 
except  use  %  graham  flour  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar. — Sister  Minnie 
M.  Whisler,  Udell,  Iowa, 

When  mixing  bread  try  standing  on  a  footstool  instead  of 
setting  pan  on  a  chair. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Yeast. — Take  12  good-sized  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  fine ; 
save  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  and  have  a  small  handful  of 
hops,  boiled  in  a  separate  pan ;  strain  the  hop  water ;  add  1  teacup- 
ful  of  sugar  and  the  same  of  salt ;  put  all  together  to  make  1  gallon. 
Always  save  a  pint  of  the  yeast  to  start  with  when  you  make  again. 
Keep  corked  in  a  jug  in  a  cool  place. — Sister  Amy  Roop  SJiaw, 
Westminster,  Md. 

Yeast. — Grate  2  large  potatoes,  add  3  pints  of  boiling  water, 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Stir  all  to- 
gether; when  cold  add  1  cup  of  baker's  yeast.  Let  it  rise,  then 
set  away. — Sister  Perry  Broadwater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Beer  Yeast. — Take  4  large  potatoes,  1  double  handful  of 
hops,  put  in  a  sack  and  boil  with  the  potatoes ;  dip  the  potatoes  out 
of  the  water  when  done  into  a  gallon  crock  and  mash  them  fine,  then 
pour  the  water  over  gradually ;  mix  well,  then  fill  the  crock  with 
cold  water  and  stir  in  y2  cup  of  sart,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  good 
yeast ;  then  set  in  a  warm  place  to  ferment.  Eight  hours  will 
suffice,  and  then  tie  up  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — Sister  Eliza  A. 
Wenger,  Long  Glade,  Va. 


BREADS — WARM   AND  COLD 


121 


Good  Dry  Yeast. — Take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt;  then  pour 
over  boiling  water  until  well  mixed ;  when  cold,  add  a  cupful  of 
good  yeast,  then  set  in  another  vessel  containing  warm  water ;  when 
it  rises,  stir  down ;  let  it  rise  again,  then  stir  in  corn  meal  to  make 
it  just  stiff  enough  to  handle ;  break  in  small  pieces  and  dry  in  the 
air. — Sister  Eliza  A.  Wenger,  Long  Glade,  Va. 

Homemade  Yeast. — First  make  a  hop  tea,  using  1  handful 
of  hops;  scald  1  quart  of  water  thoroughly,  using  the  hop  tea  and 
sufficient  boiling  water  thoroughly  to  scald  the  flour;  when  this  is 
cool,  add  1  cup  of  dry  yeast  previously  soaked  in  lukewarm  water, 
place  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  stirring  often  lightly ;  when  perfectly 
light,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum  dissolved  in 
warm  water ;  make  into  a  loaf  with  corn  meal.  Let  rise  over  night, 
then  pinch  off  and  spread  to  dry  in  a  cool,  airy  place. — Sister  Cath- 
arine Snyder,  Robins,  Iowa. 

Jug  Yeast. — Take  6  large  potatoes,  1  handful  of  hops,  y2 
cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  quart  of  water.  Boil  the  potatoes 
and  hops  together  (hops  in  a  bag).  When  done,  mash  the  potatoes, 
squeeze  out  the  hops,  pour  over  the  sugar  and  flour.  When  cool, 
add  1  cup  of  yeast  or  3  yeast  cakes.  Keep  warm  24  hours,  then 
put  in  a  jug,  but  do  not  seal  until  it  has  risen. — Sister  J.  E.  Price, 
Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Sponge  for  Light  Yeast. — Take  12  good-sized  potatoes  and 
boil  in  1  gallon  of  water ;  have  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  flour 
mixed  in  a  2-gallon  jar;  pour  over  this  the  potato  water  boiling  hot, 
then  whip  the  potatoes  and  put  them  in  when  lukewarm,  put  in  1 
cup  of  yeast  and  let  it  rise  till  next  day.  For  bread :  To  3  pints  of 
flour,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  egg,  enough  of  the  sponge  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  work  20  minutes  and  make  into  rolls  or  loaves.  Let  rise 
\y2  hours,  and  bake. — Sister  D.  S.  Thomas,  Bridgewater,  Va. 


122 


BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


Light  Bread  Yeast. — In  the  morning  when  you  make  light 
bread  save  a  cupful  of  the  sponge,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and 
cornmeal  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  pinch  off  into  small  pieces,  or 
to  press  into  a  roll  and  cut  into  slices,  and  dry  in  the  air. — Sister 
Mary  E.  Ritter,  Crescent,  Okla. 

Potato  Yeast. — Take  2  medium-sized  potatoes  and  grate 
them;  take  a  small  pinch  of  hops — peachtree  leaves  will  do — and 
boil  in  a  quart  of  water;  strain,  and  add  1  tablespoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the  grated  pota- 
toes. When  cool,  add  a  little  good  yeast ;  set  it  away  until  it  rises, 
then  it  is  ready  for  use.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  One  teacupful  of 
the  yeast  is  enough  to  make  10  or  12  loaves  of  bread. — Sister  Rachel 
E,  Gillett,  Camp  Verde,  Ariz. 

Communion  Bread. — Take  V/i  pints  of  sweet  cream,  butter 
the  size  of  two  eggs,  y2  cup  of  white  sugar,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  about  like  pie  dough.  Bake  in  sheets,  marking  each  sheet 
into  strips  and  piercing  the  strips  with  a  fork  before  baking.  Flat 
sheets  of  tin  kept  for  the  purpose  are  nice  for  baking  it  on. — 
Sister  E.  S.  Moore,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Communion  Bread. — Take  3  pints  of  milk  and  1  pound  of 
butter,  and  as  much  flour  as  to  give  it  a  body  similar  to  pie  dough. 
Divide  it  into  4  parts  and  work  each  part  until  it  blisters ;  then  roll 
out  till  about  the  thickness  of  pie  dough.  Lay  it  off  with  a  ruler  an 
inch  broad  into  inch  strips,  at  the  same  time  cutting  the  creases  or 
divisions  about  half  the  thickness  of  the  cake.  Perforate  each 
strip  with  2  rows  of  holes  from  end  to  end  and  then  bake.  This 
will  make  enough  for  250  members. — Sister  Sadie  K.  Iniler,  Ridgely, 
Md. 

Unleavened  Bread  or  Communion  Bread. — Sift  for  2  or  3 
times  3  parts  of  graham  flour  and  1  part  of  bolted  flour;  stir  into 
it  with  a  spoon  1  pint  of  sweet  cream.    When  as  stiff  as  can  be 


BREADS  WARM  AND   COLD  123 

stirred,  remove  to  kneading  board  and  knead  well ;  bake  in  a 

moderate  oven.  This  is  sufficient  for  50  communicants. — Sister 
Emma  Click,  Tekoa,  Wash. 


124  BREADS  WARM    AND  COLD 


BREADS  WARM   AND   COLD  125 


126  BREADS — WARM  AND  COLD 


We  should  cultivate  the  habit  of  eating  plenty  of  vegetables, 
and  to  do  this  easily  we  must  know  what  particular  food  elements  the 
various  vegetables  afford  and  then  learn  to  prepare  each  vegetable 
in  the  most  appetizing  and  wholesome  ways.  Much  of  the  value  of 
vegetables  depends  on  the  cooking ;  their  nutritive  elements  may  be 
wasted  by  soaking,  burning,  cooking  too  long  or  not  long  enough. 
Since  all  vegetables  are  compounds  of  cells  surrounded  by  a  woody 
fiber,  rapid  boiling  tends  to  toughen  this  fibre  and  break  up  the 
cells,  allowing  many  of  their  principles  to  be  lost  that  should  be  re- 
tained as  food.  When  vegetables  are  put  on  to  cook  the  water 
should  be  kept  steadily  boiling  until  they  are  done.  No  arbitrary 
rules  can  be  laid  down  as  to  the  length  of  time  vegetables  should 
be  cooked,  since  the  time  varies  with  the  age  of  vegetables,  their 
manner  of  growth,  degree  of  freshness,  nature  of  water  used  for 
cooking  and  degree  of  heat  applied.  The  skillful  cook  will  consider 
these  influences  and  soon  control  them  successfully.  Green  vege- 
tables should  be  cooked  with  cover  partly  withdrawn,  as  this  method 
gives  them  a  better  color  and  more  delicious  flavor.  All  delicately 
flavored  vegetables,  such  as  asparagus,  peas  and  potatoes,  should  be 
cooked  in  only  enough  water  to  cover  them,  while  those  with  strong 
flavor,  as  dandelions,  cabbage,  carrots,  onions  and  turnips,  should  be 
cooked  in  a  generous  quantity  of  water.  Vegetables  specially  lack- 
ing in  fatty  substances,  as  peas  and  beans,  should  have  butter  or 
some  substitute  in  their  dressing.  In  fact  almost  all  vegetables 
are  improved  by  a  seasoning  of  this  kind.  Beets,  turnips,  squash, 
peas  and  generally  beans  require  some  sugar  as  seasoning  to  make 
up  for  the  sweetness  lost  in  boiling.  Cabbage  and  lettuce  contain 
alkalies  and  should  therefore  be  served  with  an  acid  condiment  or 

1Z7 


128  VEGETABLES 

seasoning-.  Onions  are  not  only  a  wholesome  food  in  themselves, 
being  almost  the  best  nervine  known,  but  they  are  excellent  used 
as  seasoning  for  many  other  dishes. 

Baked  Apples. — Take  18  apples,  pare  and  quarter;  put  1 
layer  of  apples  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  over  them.  Put  in 
5  layers  of  the  apples,  then  pour  over  them  Y\  teacupful  of  water. 
Flavor  with  lemon  to  suit  the  taste ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  serve 
while  warm. — Sister  H.  G.  Miller,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Baked  Apples. — Select  as  many  good  baking  apples  of  same 
size  as  wanted  for  use,  halve  them,  but  do  not  pare ;  take  out  the 
core  and  in  each  half  put  a  large  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  and  bake.  Serve  with  cream  or 
not,  as  desired. — Sister  Jennie  B.  Miller,  Robins,  Iowa. 

Baked  Apples. — Peel  and  cut  in  halves  five  or  six  good  tart 
apples.  Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  several  hours.  Then 
put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  a  dish  ;  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it  and 
stir  until  all  is  dissolved.  Put  your  tapioca  in  this  and  pour  it  over 
the  apples ;  put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  until  apples  are  done. — Sister 
Tada  Haines,  North  Manchester,  hid. 

Baked  Apples. — Cut  apples  into  halves  (do  not  peel),  put 
in  a  bread  pan,  sprinkle  over  them  sugar,  nutmeg  and  flour,  pour 
over  them  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk  and  lay  bits  of  butter  on  top 
and  bake. — Sister  Elizabeth  Piper,  Ossian,  hid. 

Fried  Apples. — Pare  the  apples  and  slice  them  a  little  thicker 
than  potaioes  for  frying,  put  them  into  a  pan  in  which  there  is 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  to  season  to  taste,  put  in  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  sprinkle  cinnamon  over  them.  Fry  slowly  until 
brown. — Sister  Lizzie  Harnish,  Mt.  Carroll,  III. 

Fried  Apples. — Use  rather  tart  apples.  Do  not  pare  but 
cut  them  in  halves  and  core.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  open  side  up ; 
then  season  with  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  salt,  butter,  flour,  ground 
cinnamon,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.   Then  pour  on  a  little  water,  cover 


VEGETABLES 


129 


the  pan  and  let  them  cook  soft  and  dry  after  which  remove  the  lid 
and  brown  nicely. — Sister  Katie  Moore  Strickler,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Riced  Apples. — Boil  ^  of  a  cup  of  rice  in  sweet  milk,  put  in 
a  little  salt  and  some  butter.  Have  ready  some  good  cooking  apples ; 
that  is,  have  them  pared  and  cored ;  put  in  a  pan  and  pour  the 
cooked  rice  over  them.  Bake  till  the  apples  are  thoroughly  done. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Hattie  Yoder  Gilbert,  Los 
Angeles,  Gal. 

Roasted  Apples. — Pare  and  core  12  large  apples,  put  them 
in  a  pan  and  then  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast.  When  roasted,  put  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  1  teacupful  of  cream  over  them.  Serve 
while  warm. — Sister  H.  G.  Miller,  Bridgezuater,  Va. 

Asparagus  with  White  Sauce. — Cook  1  bunch  of  asparagus 
1  hour  or  less,  according  to  age,  then  drain  off  all  the  water,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  dressing 
made  of  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast. — Sister  Katie  E.  Keller,  Enterprise,  Mont. 

To  Cook  Asparagus. — Cut  the  asparagus  into  small  pieces, 
boil  until  tender;  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  add  1  teacupful  of  cream  into  which  has  been 
mixed  1  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Toast 
brown  pieces  of  bread,  put  in  a  dish,  then  pour  the  asparagus  over 
them  and  serve  while  hot. — Sister  Bernice  Ashmore,  Mansfield,  III. 

Baked  Bananas. — Allow  1  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  each  banana.  Bake 
till  the  fruit  is  red  and  the  syrup  thick. — Sister  Pearl  Weimer,  St. 
Elmo,  Va. 

Baked  Beans. — Cook  dried  beans  until  soft,  then  put  in  a 
pan,  season  with  salt  and  y2  cup  of  sugar  or  molasses ;  put  in  oven 
and  bake  until  brown. — Sister  Mary  Rowland,  Astoria,  III. 


130 


VEGETABLES 


Baked  Beans. — Take  3  pints  dry  Lima  beans  soaked  in  plenty 
of  fresh  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  the  water  oft  and 
put  the  beans  on  to  cook  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender,  then  drain 
again,  and  set  aside.  In  the  meantime  boil  a  3  or  4  pound  piece 
of  beef  until  done,  then  remove  the  beef  from  the  broth  and  add 
to  the  broth  1  teaspoonful  oi  prepared  mustard,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  catsup  or  Chili  sauce,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  Yz  teaspoonful 
of  pepper.  Strain  this  mixture  over  the  beans  in  a  baking  pan  and 
then  lay  6  thin  strips  of  bacon  over  the  top.  and  then  place  the  pan 
wTith  contents  in  a  hot  oven.  Bake  until  thoroughly  done  and  the 
top  nicely  browned  over. — Sister  Viola  Mohler,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Baked  Beans. — Take  iy2  pints  of  navy  beans,  soaked  in 
clear  water  over  night.  Put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  boil  till 
thoroughly  done.  About  8  o'clock  put  in  the  oven  a  2  or  3  pound 
pork  roast.  When  done  remove  from  pan,  make  a  thickened  gravy 
in  the  pan  where  the  meat  has  been  roasted,  then  put  'in  the  beans, 
Salt  and  pepper  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister 
Winnie  E.  Duncan,  Denbigh,  N.  Dak. 

Baked  Beans, — Look  over  and  wash  3  cupfuls  of  beans  and 
put  to  soak  over  night,  in  plenty  of  water.  As  soon  as  fire  is  kindled 
in  the  morning  put  them  in  a  pan,  pot.  or  closely-sealed  kettle,  add  1 
pound  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  (salt  pork  is  best),  1  teaspoonful  of 
ground  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cooking  molasses,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  water.  Bake  from  four  to 
six  hours,  adding  more  water  if  necessary.  They  should  be  a  rich 
brown  and  moist  when  done. — Sister  M.  M.  Cooncy,  Endcrs,  Xebr. 

Baked  Beans. — Take  1  quart  of  small  white  beans.  1  onion, 
y2  cup  of  white  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  slice  of  salt 
pork.  Boil  all  together  on  top  of  the  stove  for  a  half  hour.  Cover 
the  kettle  tightly  and  set  in  the  oven  with  water  not  quite  covering, 
stir  two  or  three  times,  when  brown  enough  cover  with  water  again 
and  bake  until  tender.  Serve  cold  or  warm. — Sister  Sadie  Hays, 
Le  Grand,  Cat. 


VEGETABLES 


131 


Boston  Baked  Beans. — Boil  soup  beans  until  soft.  Put  in 
a  pan  a  layer  of  beans,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes  cut  in  pieces. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  syrup.  Continue  until  you 
have  the  pan  full,  ending  with  beans  on  top.  Slice  breakfast  bacon 
in  thin  slices,  cut  into  small  pieces,  fry  and  stick  these  pieces  down 
into  the  beans.  Pour  the  grease  that  fried  out  of  the  meat  over  all. 
Bake  until  brown. — Sister  W.  E.  Prigel,  Gittings,  Md. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. — Take  1  quart  of  white  navy  beans, 
wash  and  let  soak  in  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  with 
plenty  of  water  till  beans  begin  to  break,  then  pour  off  water  and 
put  into  baking  jar,  adding  bits  of  salt  pork,  as  the  beans  are  put 
in,  using  as  much  pork  as  you  wish  for  seasoning.  When  the  beans 
are  all  in  put  on  top  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  molasses,  pepper, 
and  salt  and  cover  with  fresh  water.  Bake  from  6  to  8  hours,  add- 
ing water  to  keep  beans  covered.— Sister  Chas.  H.  Brown,  Omaja, 
Cuba. 

Creamed  Beans. — String  and  break  green  beans  in  small 
pieces,  cook  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  pour  off  the  water  in  which 
they  were  cooked.  To  ]/2  gallon  of  beans  add  1  teacupful  of  sweet 
cream  or  rich  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  hulled  walnut.  Canned  beans 
are  as  nice  cooked  in  this  way  as  green  beans. — Sister  Lula  O. 
Trout,  Hollins,  Va. 

Fried  Beans. — Put  butter,  meat  fryings,  or  any  grease  pre- 
ferred into  a  flat-bottomed  kettle,  let  get  smoking  hot,  then  drop  in 
string  beans  that  have  been  washed  and  prepared  for  cooking.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  cover.  Stir  often,  and  as  they  begin  to  dry, 
add  a  little  hot  water  each  time.  Cook  one  hour  and  they  will  be 
fine. — Sister  Sadie  Finch,  Portersville,  Cat. 

Green  Beans. — For  2  quarts  of  green  beans,  put  T/2  cup  of 
butter  and  lard  into  a  kettle;  when  very  hot,  add  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour.  Brown  well,  then  add  1  cup  of  water,  and  then  the  beans. 
Stir  well,  cover  with  water,  and  when  tender,  cook  dry. — Sister  H. 
P.  Albaugh,  Chicago,  III. 


132 


VEGETABLES 


Green  Beans. — Prepare  the  beans  for  cooking,  scald  them 
in  boiling  water,  let  them  remain  in  the  water  until  it  becomes  luke- 
warm ;  then  put  them  on  to  cook  with  meat.  Add  salt  and  a  little 
sugar. — Sister  Margaret  A.  Cawly,  Sidney ,  Nebr. 

Lima  Beans. — Remove  the  unripe  ones  from  Lima  beans, 
cook  the  beans  in  water  until  they  are  tender,  then  when  about  dry, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  pour  over 
them  about  73  of  a  cup  of  cream,  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil. 
Dried  Lima  beans  are  cooked  in  the  same  way. — Sister  Grace  Gafhn 
Price,  Oregon,  III. 

String  Beans. — Cook  the  beans  until  tender  in  salted  water 
and  drain.  Have  some  onions  and  chillies  sliced,  mix  with  the  beans 
and  fry.  A  few  tomatoes  added  before  removing  from  the  fire, 
makes  a  good  dish. — Sister  J.  F.  Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cal. 

Boiled  String  Beans. — Slice  a  half  pound  of  bacon  as  for 
frying,  place  it  in  the  kettle  and  fry  it  slowly  until  done.  Add  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  spoonful  of  sugar  and  water,  the  amount  de- 
pending on  quantity  of  beans ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  string 
beans  and  cook  about  three  hours. — Sister  Jos.  H.  Johnson,  Roycrs- 
ford,  Pa. 

Baked  Red  Beets. — After  you  have  washed  the  beets,  place 
them  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water.  Cover  them  and  as  soon 
as  soft  pickle  them  the  usual  way.  They  are  delicious. — Sister  Jos. 
H.  Johnson,  Royersford,  Pa. 

Fried  Young  beets. — Take  young  and  tender  red  beets,  boil 
until  quite  tender,  then  peel,  hash  fine,  then  fry  in  butter,  add  salt 
to  taste,  fry  lightly  until  seasoned  through.  In  taste  this  is  a  sub- 
stitute for  green  corn. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Beet  Hash. — Take  2/z  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  ]/z  cold  boiled 
beets ;  chop  these  together  until  fine  as  mince  meat ;  have  your 
skillet  hot  with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  it  browned,  scrape 


VEGETABLES 


133 


your  hash  into  it.  salt  and  pepper  it,  and  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of 
sweet  cream,  that  is,  that  much  cream  for  a  skillet  full  of  hash,  if 
you  have  less  hash  use  less  cream ;  stir  it  slightly  and  serve  hot  or 
cold. — Sister  Bessie  Miller,  North  English,  Iowa. 

Italian  Beets. — Take  T<  dozen  beets,  y2  cup  butter,  6  table- 
spoons of  flour,  2/z  cup  of  lemon  juice,  3  cups  of  water  and  3  tea- 
spoons of  salt.  Method. — Cream  two-thirds  of  butter  and  flour, 
add  water  and  salt  and  stir  constantly.  Just  before  serving  add  re- 
mainder of  butter  and  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  over  the  cooked 
beets  which  have  been  sliced,  and  serve. — Sister  Bertha  Dutcher, 
Sterling,  III. 

Beet  Sauce. — Take  1  cup  of  vinegar  and  water  mixed,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  then  salt,  and  pepper,  add  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut ;  thicken  with  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  ;  let  come  to  a 
boil,  then  pour  over  beets  which  have  been  cooked  soft  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.    Serve  hot. — Sister  Joseph  Amick,  Elgin,  111. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Boil  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  and  when  almost 
done  add  cabbage  which  has  been  washed  and  cut  in  large  pieces ; 
boil  with  the  meat  until  tender ;  salt  to  taste  and  add  1  large  table- 
spoonful of  sugar.  At  the  table  add  vinegar  and  pepper. — Sister 
Ella  V.  Roller,  Carrington.  X.  Dak. 

Cabbage  with  Celery. — Cut  1  gallon  of  cabbage,  add  4 
bunches  of  celery  cut  fine.  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard  seed ;  mix  all 
together,  put  in  a  porcelain  or  granite  kettle  with  y2  pint  of  water,  1 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  y2  pint  of  sugar ;  boil  till  tender,  not  too  done. 
It  can  be  canned  if  sealed  while  hot. — Sister  D.  E.  Kcllcy,  North 
Georgetown,  Ohio. 

Creamed  Cabbage. — Cut  fine  a  head  of  cabbage  that  is 
tender  and  crisp :  put  1  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  pan  and  brown  it,  put  in  the  cabbage,  season  with  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper ;  fry  it  5  minutes,  then  pour 
y2  cup  of  cream  over  it  and  serve. — Sister  Fannie  Zug  Hostetler, 
Mt.  Joy,  Pa. 


134 


VEGETABLES 


Creamed  Cabbage. — Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  */2 
cup  each  of  sugar  and  vinegar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  cup  of  cream.  Add  all  together  in  a 
saucepan,  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Pour  over  finely-cut  cabbage. — Sister 
Amanda  Nicholson,  Hillsdale,  Pa. 

Creamed  Cabbage. — Cut  cabbage  into  4  or  more  pieces,  ac- 
cording to  size  of  head,  and  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender ;  remove 
carefully  with  a  fork  and  place  in  a  colander  to  drain  for  a  few 
minutes.  Put  into  a  large  pan  enough  butter  to  oil  well ;  when 
slightly  brown,  dust  each  piece  of  cabbage  with  seasoned  flour  and 
put  in  the  pan,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  overlap  each  other ;  place 
the  pan  in  a  slow  oven  and  turn  carefully  until  each  piece  is  light 
brown,  then  pour  over  it  T/2  cup  of  rich  sweet  cream  and  remove 
from  fire  when  cream  is  heated.  The  secret  of  having  this  dish  just 
right  is  in  being  careful  that  no  portion  of  the  tender  cabbage  is 
allowed  to  become  too  brown.  If  some  parts  are  too  brown,  remove 
the  brown  portion  before  adding  cream. — Sister  Emma  Click, 
Tekoa,  Wash. 

Creamed  Cabbage  Slaw. — Take  1  head  of  solid  cabbage, 
chopped  very  fine  or  cut  on  the  slaw  cutter,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  y2 
cup  of  vinegar,  T/2  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  y2  pint  of  thick 
sweet  cream ;  put  sugar  in  cream  and  whip  stiff ;  put  vinegar  over 
cabbage  first  then  the  whipped  cream,  and  serve. — Sister  R.  L. 
Powers,  Grant  City,  Mo. 

Fried  Cabbage. — Cut  the  cabbage  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  work  until  juicy,  then  put  into  hot  grease  to  fry;  stir  often 
to  prevent  browning,  and  when  done  add  a  little  sweet  cream.  Put 
no  water  about  the  cabbage,  as  it  destroys  the  sweetness. — Sister 
Charity  White,  Ari,  Ind. 

Fried  Cabbage. — To  1  medium-sized  cabbage  head,  cut  with 
a  slaw  cutter,  take  a  scant  J/2  pint  of  water.  Fry  with  1  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Sister  M.  L.  Fel- 
lers, Roanoke,  Va, 


VEGETABLES 


135 


Cabbage  Slaw. — Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  cook 
in  a  double  boiler ;  thin  with  water  if  too  thick ;  when  cold  pour  over 
chopped  cabbage. — Sister  Flora  Doughty,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Cold  Slaw. — Take  1  quart  of  sliced  cabbage,  y2  pint  of  sour 
cream,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  good  vinegar,  mix  well  together.  If  you  can  get  it  cold 
enough  to  froth,  froth  it,  which  is  much  nicer  than  when  left  plain. — 
Sister  Mary  Wampler,  Dayton,  Va. 

Cold  Slaw. — Cut  cabbage  very  fine;  to  1  quart  of  cabbage 
take  1  cup  of  rich  sour  cream,  and  T/2  cup  of  sugar ;  mix  well.  If 
you  do  not  have  the  cream,  use  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  and  a  little  vinegar. — Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney, 
Nebr. 

Cold  Slaw. — Sprinkle  with  salt  1  quart  of  finely-cut  cabbage. 
Mix  together  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  y  cup  of  good  sour  vinegar, 
and  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  add  pepper.  Pour  over  the  cabbage  and 
mix  well. — Sister  Lura  Flickinger,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Cold  Slaw. — Cut  cabbage  very  fine,  salt,  and  let  sit  a  few 
minutes,  then  press  with  your  hands.  Take  y2  cup  of  thick  sweet 
cream,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste. 
Pour  over  cabbage  and  mix  thoroughly. — Sister  Cassie  Bowser, 
Lineboro,  Md. 

Hot  Slaw. — Boil  the  slaw  tender,  with  just  enough  salted 
water  to  keep  from  burning.  For  dressing  take  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sour  cream,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  pepper,  and  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar.  Pour  over  cabbage,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and  serve  at 
once. — Sister  Sarah  Hohf,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Pickled  Cabbages. — Slice  1  head  of  cabbage  fine,  then  salt 
and  pepper  it  and  press  it  down  firmly  with  the  hands  or  a  potato 
masher.  Then  pour  over  it  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover,  adding  a 
little  sugar  and  mustard  seed  if  liked,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — 
Sister  Mary  McDannel,  Elgin,  III. 


136 


VEGETABLES 


Scalloped  Cabbage. — Take  y2  head  of  cabbage,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  4  eggs,  2  ounces  of  butter,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Wash  and  chop  the  cabbage  coarsely, 
throw  it  into  boiling  salted  water,  boil  20  minutes,  drain.  Have 
ready  4  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  put  the  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan ;  when  melted  add  the  flour  and  milk,  stirring  it  constantly  until  it 
boils,  add  the  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  cabbage  in  a  dish, 
pour  over  it  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  15  minutes. — Sister  Sarah  Reese  Eby,  West  Elk  ton, 
Ohio. 

Stewed  Cabbage. — Take  tender  fresh  cabbage,  about  1 
pound,  cut  pretty  coarsely,  put  on  to  boil  in  boiling  water  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Then  drain,  put  on  sweet  milk  to  cover  and  then  stew 
until  tender.  Take  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  mixed  to  a 
paste  with  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up 
and  serve. — Sister  Nancy  Bahr,  Damascus,  Oregon. 

Warm  Slaw. — Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  all  together  and  pour  over  finely  cut  cabbage. 
Sister  Myra  Troyer,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Warm  Slaw. — Cut  1  head  of  cabbage  up  fine.  Take  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  the  same  amount  of  lard  (meat  fryings  are  nice), 
put  in  a  kettle,  let  get  hot,  then  put  in  the  cabbage;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  enough  water  to  boil  cabbage  tender.  When 
cooked  tender  and  dry,  make  a  dressing  of  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  1  egg.  Just  before  lifting  the  cabbage, 
put  over  it  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  then  add  the  dressing,  stir- 
ring it  through  the  cabbage.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  take  up  and 
serve  hot. — Sister  Sarah  C.  Myers,  Syracuse,  hid. 

Warm  Slaw. — Put  into  a  well-heated  skillet  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard,  add  1  quart  of  finely-chopped  cabbage,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  1  of  sugar,  and  1  small  cup  of  vinegar.  Stir  until  heated 
through,  then  serve  immediately. — Sister  C.  H.  Diehl,  Jonesboro, 
Tenn. 


VEGETABLES 


137 


Dressing  for  Warm  Slaw. — Prepare  cabbage  in  the  usual 
way,  make  a  dressing  as  follows :  Take  1  egg  well  beaten,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  sweet  cream,  y2  cup  of  vinegar.  Pour 
over  slaw,  boil  a  few  minutes,  serve  hot. — Sister  Cassie  Bowser, 
Lineboro,  Md. 

Mustard  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. — Chop  cabbage  fine  in 
chopping  bowl,  then  salt  and  let  stand  while  you  fix  dressing  as 
follows :  1  cup  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Cook 
all  together.  Then  squeeze  cabbage  out,  put  in  a  dish  and. add  dress- 
ing.  This  is  excellent. — Sister  J.  N.  Brumbaugh,  Sabetha,  Kans. 

For  Cooking  Cabbage. — Have  the  water  at  the  boiling  point. 
Put  the  cabbage  in  and  then  cook  rapidly  for  %  to  1  hour,  adding 
a  little  sugar. — Sister  I.  C.  Myers,  Greenmount,  Va. 

Boiled  Sauerkraut. — Wash  fresh  spare  ribs  or  backbone  and 
add  kraut  with  sufficient  water  to  prevent  boiling  dry.  Boil  until 
done. — Sister  Catharine  Snyder,  Robins,  Iowa. 

Fried  Sauerkraut. — Place  in  frying  pan  butter  and  lard  in 
equal  parts,  when  hot  add  kraut  and  fry  until  done ;  not  too  brown. 
Sister  Catharine  Snyder,  Robins,  Iowa. 

Sauerkraut  and  Knep. — Boil  1  quart  of  kraut  for  20  or  30 
minutes,  after  which  add  a  batter  made  as  follows:  Take  1  well- 
beaten  egg,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  V2  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, a  pinch  of  salt,  add  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  batter  just  stiff 
enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Add  this  to  the  boiling  kraut,  by 
spoonfuls,  and  boil  all  together  for  20  minutes. — Sister  Catharine 
Snyder,  Robins,  Iowa. 

Fried  Carrots. — Scrape  and  slice  carrots  inch  thick,  cover 
with  salted  water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain,  roll  each  slice  in 
flour  and  fry  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  in  a  hot  skillet,  browning 
on  both  sides.  Place  in  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  each  layer  well  with 
sugar. — Sister  Nora  E.  Retry,  Westminster,  Md. 


138 


VEGETABLES 


Carrots, — Scrape  6  nice-sized  carrots  and  cut  crosswise  into 
thin  slices.  Put  on  in  cold  water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Drain  care- 
fully, then  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  them,  also  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  1  very  finely 
minced  onion.  Add  a  pint  or  a  little  more  of  thin  meat  broth,  and 
boil  slowly  nearly  an  hour.  About  5  minutes  before  serving,  add 
a  small  bunch  of  finely-minced  parsley. — Sister  John  E.  Mohler, 
Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Stewed  Carrots. — Pare  and  slice  carrots,  put  them  on  the 
stove  with  enough  water  to  cook  them  tender,  drain,  and  cover  with 
milk  sweetened  to  suit  taste,  and  cook  5  or  10  minutes  longer. — Sis- 
ter M.  C.  Whitesel,  Wayside,  Wash. 

Corn  on  Cob. — Select  ears  of  corn  not  too  far  advanced  in 
milk  stage,  thoroughly  clean  off  all  silk.  Then  place  in  a  porcelain 
or  agate  cooking  vessel  previously  filled  with  boiling  water  to  which 
enough  salt  has  been  added  to  season  well.  Cook  30  minutes  or 
until  done.  Serve  hot  with  salt  and  plenty  of  fresh  butter. — Sister 
Jane  Thomas,  Carrington,  N.  Dak. 

Fried  Corn. — Take  6  juicy  ears  of  corn  and  shave  it  off  the 
cob;  heat  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg;  when  hot  put 
the  corn  in  and  fry  not  too  hard ;  when  done,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
break  3  eggs  over  the  corn,  and  scramble. — Sister  Mary  Taylor, 
Spring  City,  Pa. 

Corn  Fritters. — Take  12  ears  of  sweet  corn,  score  through 
the  center  of  each  row,  press  out  the  pulp  with  a  fork,  add  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  flour  to  make  a  batter  not  too 
stiff ;  fry  in  deep,  hot,  lard ;  serve  hot. — Sister  Margaret  Bricker, 
Dozunsville,  Md. 

Stewed  Green  Corn. — To  1  quart  of  corn  add  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  enough  water  to  cook  well  done ;  then  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  If  butter  is 
plenty,  more  butter  will  improve  the  corn. — Sister  Sadie  Boyer, 
Lena,  III. 


VEGETABLES 


139 


Corn  Oysters. — Mix  into  one  pint  of  corn,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  1  cup  of  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg", 
Drop  by  dessertspoonfuls  into  a  little  hot  grease  and  fry  on  both 
sides. — Sister  Edna  Crowe,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Corn  or  Sham  Oysters. — -Take  8  large  ears  of  field  corn,  well 
filled,  score  and  scrape  or  press  out  the  pulp,  leaving  all  hulls  on 
cob.  To  this  pulp  add  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  and  when  hot  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  it.  When 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  the  other.  Serve  very  hot. — 
Sister  Gertrude  F.  Finnell  Seese,  Uniontown,  Pa. 

Scalloped  Corn. — Take  1  can  of  corn  or  the  same  amount 
of  fresh  sweet  corn,  put  a  layer  of  the  corn  in  a  pudding  dish, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then  a  layer  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs ;  con- 
tinue in  this  order  till  the  corn  is  all  used,  finishing  with  a  layer 
of  cracker  crumbs  and  butter ;  pour  over  milk  until  it  appears  above 
the  top  layer,  put  in  oven  and  bake  ]/i  hour  or  until  a  nice  brown. 
— Sister  Addie  Blocker,  Pearl  City,  III. 

Corn  Souffle. — Heat  one  pint  of  milk  with  y2  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Stir  into  the  milk  24  CUP  of  cornmeal.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  thick.  Add  4  eggs,  beaten  separately,  the  whites  last.  Bake  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  about  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Serve  at 
once. — Sister  Myrtle  Blocker,  Greenville,  Ohio. 

Baked  Hominy. — Take  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  cold 
cooked  hominy  flakes,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little 
salt;  bring  the  milk  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  the  hominy  and  salt.  Let 
cool  and  then  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  the  sugar  ■  bake  30  or  40 
minutes.  The  top  may  be  meringued  with  the  beaten  whites  of  a 
couple  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  or  not,  as  preferred 
Serve  with  any  pudding  sauce  or  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  D 
H.  Ikenberry,  Quint er,  Kans. 


140 


VEGETABLES 


Hominy  Croquettes. — To  each  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy, 
necessary  for  the  family,  put  1  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  or 
drippings,  stirring  well  together ;  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  paste ; 
beat  1  egg  with  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  hominy  used ; 
mix  in,  and  with  floured  hands  roll  into  balls  (croquettes)  and  fry 
in  butter  or  drippings.  If  made  rather  stiff,  they  may  be  dipped  in 
beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs  before  frying. — Sister  D.  H. 
Ikenberry,  Quintcr,  Kans. 

Flake  Hominy. — Place  the  required  amount  of  hominy  flakes 
in  a  thick  vessel,  porcelain  or  crockery,  with  sufficient  salt  to  season, 
and  pour  on  boiling  water.  Stir  frequently  and  add  more  water  as 
needed ;  cook  about  20  minutes  and  serve  with  butter  or  cream  and 
sugar,  as  desired. — Sister  D.  H.  Ikenberry,  Qninter  Kans. 

Fried  Hominy. — Boil  hominy  until  done,  season  with  butter 
and  salt ;  put  some  meat  fryings  into  a  skillet,  put  in  hominy,  stir- 
ring often ;  fry  till  a  good  brown. — Sister  Elisabeth  Rogers,  Hang- 
ing Rock,  W .  Va. 

Succotash. — Cook  the  beans  with  a  piece  of  bacon  for  two 
hours.  Then  add  to  each  half  gallon  of  beans,  one  quart  of  green 
corn  cut  from  the  cob.  They  should  be  boiled  dry. — Sister  Florence 
Hays  Kline,  Broadway,  Va. 

Succotash. — Use  double  the  quantity  of  corn  to  that  of  string 
beans.  Cook  the  beans  until  very  tender,  then  add  the  corn  (if  new 
corn,  cut  very  fine)  and  cook  15  minutes. — Sister  L.  N.  Moomaw, 
Roanoke,  Va. 

Succotash. — Take  a  piece  of  boiling  beef  and  cook  with  it 
about  an  equal  quantity  of  beans  and  sweet  corn ;  then  make  rivels 
of  1  egg  and  enough  flour  to  work  it  into  small  crumbs  or  pieces ; 
put  these  rivels  into  the  soup  and  boil  15  or  20  minutes ;  serve  while 
hot.  Fresh  green  beans  (no  pods)  and  fresh  sweet  corn  are  best, 
but  soup  beans  and  salted,  canned,  or  even  dried  corn  is  very  nice. 
The  amount  of  beans,  corn,  and  rivels  may  be  proportioned  to  suit. 
— Sister  Katie  Moore  S  trickier,  Eld  or  a,  Iowa. 


VEGETABLES 


141 


Cucumbers  Fried  in  Batter. — Pare  2  or  3  large  cucumbers, 
cut  them  in  slices  y\  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  press 
with  a  light  weight  for  an  hour  or  two,  drain  on  a  napkin ;  dip  each 
slice  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  butter  until  a 
light  brown. — Sister  S.  E.  Neff,  Huntington,  Ind. 

Fried  Cucumbers. — Slice  nice,  large  cucumbers,  salt  and  let 
stand  for  about  J/2  hour,  press  as  for  salad ;  have  ready  2  beaten  eggs 
and  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers,  dip  cucumbers  into  eggs  and 
crumbs  and  fry  in  cottosuet  or  lard  and  a  little  butter. — Sister  D. 
Buckwalter,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

Stewed  Cucumbers. — Pare  6  cucumbers,  cut  into  quarters, 
remove  the  seeds ;  put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan 
with  1  small  onion  sliced,  fry  until  brown,  then  add  the  cucumbers, 
shake  them  carefully  until  they  are  a  light  brown,  then  lift 
them  out  carefully  with  an  egg-slice;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 
to  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan,  mix  until  smooth,  then  add  }4 
pint  of  stock.  Stir  constantly  until  it  boils,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  return  the  cucumbers,  cover  and  stew  gently  20  minutes. 
Serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast. — Sister  F.  Mae  Zug,  Master- 
sonville.  Pa. 

Dandelion  Dressing. — To  y2  pint  of  sweet  cream  and  milk 
take  1 

e&&'  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  salt, 
vinegar  to  taste ;  mix  all  together ;  put  lard  in  pan,  heat,  then  pour 
in  the  dressing :  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the  dandelion ;  heat 
just  enough  to  scald  it.  Let  stand  about  10  or  15  minutes  and 
serve. — Sister  Esther  H.  Sell,  Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 

Fried  Eggplant. — Pare  the  eggplant  and  cut  in  slices  y±  inch 
thick ;  place  slices  in  a  vessel  and  cover  with  water,  adding  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt ;  let  it  stand  2  hours.  When  ready,  prepare  a  bat- 
ter of  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  milk,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  dip  each 
slice  into  this  batter  and  roll  in  cracker  dust  on  both  sides  :  fry 
in  hot  butter  a  golden  brown  on  both  sides. — Sister  Lizzie  Hack- 
man,  Mastersonville,  Pa. 


142 


VEGETABLES 


Baked  Eggplant. — Take  2  medium-sized  eggplants,  1  pound 
of  ham,  2  or  3  onions,  and  3  medium-sized  slices  of  bread.  Grind 
these,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  well.  Bake  1  hour. — Sister 
Esther  M.  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Kohl  Rabi. — Take  1  quart  of  pared  and  sliced  kohl  rabi ; 
boil  in  salt  water  until  tender/  drain,  and  dress  with  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y2  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  little  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Let  boil  up  once 
and  serve. — Sister  Nora  E.  Petty,  Westminster,  Md. 

Baked  Onions. — Onions  are  delicate  and  delicious  cooked 
thus:  Cover  6  large  ones  with  boiling  water;  boil  10  minutes,  drain 
and  cover  again  with  boiling  water ;  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
boil  till  tender  but  firm.  Drain,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  and  cover  with  rich  milk;  give  a 
heavy  sprinkling  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  till  a  light  brown. 
The  milk  can  be  heated  before  put  in  the  baker,  requiring  less  heat 
in  the  baker  than  if  put  in  cold. — Sistet  Mary  Wampler,  Dayton, 
Va. 

Creamed  Onions. — Prepare  as  many  onions  as  are  wanted, 
slice  them,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender  and  drain. 
Then  make  a  white  sauce  of  1  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  butter  and 
flour  together,  stir  into  the  milk  and  cook  till  thick ;  then  add  onions. 
— Sistet  Pearl  Weimet,  St.  Elmo,  Va. 

Fried  Onions. — Heat  1  rounding  tablespoonful  of  lard ;  pour 
into  it  y2  gallon  of  sliced  onions  and  a  scant  y2  cup  of  hot  water ; 
add  salt  and  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  cover  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Re- 
move the  cover  and  let  fry  a  rich  brown,  taking  care  that  they  do 
not  burn. — Sistet  hula  Goshotn,  Ladoga,  Ind. 

Delicious  Fried  Onions. — Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  into 
a  pan  and  let  it  become  hot.  Then  put  in  1  quart  of  sliced  onions, 
stir  frequently  until  tender  and  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour 


VEGETABLES 


143 


and  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Stir  and  cook  until  done.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  hot. — Sister  Susie  M.  Hout,  Sharps- 
burg,  Md. 

Escalloped  Onions. — Take  2  quarts  steamed  onions,  ^  quart 
cream  sauce,  J/2  quart  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  2/z 
tablespoonful  salt.  Place  one  quart  of  the  onions  in  the  bottom  of  a 
well-oiled  baking  dish,  then  one-half  the  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  then  one-half  the  bread  crumbs,  then  one-half  the  cream 
sauce,  now  add  the  remainder  of  the  onions  and  other  ingredients 
accordingly.  Finish  with  three-fourths  cup  of  finely-rolled  cracker 
crumbs.  Bake  until  a  nice  brown. — Sister  Bertha  Butcher,  Ster- 
ling, III. 

Hygienic  Way  of  Preparing  Onions. — Take  onions  of  about 
equal  size,  peel,  leave  whole,  parboil  once,  pouring  the  water  off, 
then  boil  until  very  tender,  which  will  take  two  to  three  hours.  Boil 
dry  or  drain  well,  put  in  a  veg'etable  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  with 
salt.  Have  ready  rich,  sweet  milk,  brought  to  a  boiling  heat,  and 
pour  over  the  onions.  A  little  butter  added  to  the  milk  will  improve 
them  but  is  not  as  hygienic.  Cooking  the  onions  without  salt  will 
render  them  very  sweet  and  palatable.  Try  it. — Sister  Amanda 
Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Scalloped  Onions. — Parboil  12  sliced  onions.  Prepare  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs  enough  to  make  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  of  onions, 
putting  crumbs  first,  and  on  the  top  adding  butter,  salt,  and  pepper 
to  season.  And  last  pour  over  1  pint  of  milk  and  bake. — Sister  W . 
J.  Szvigart,  Huntingdon,  Pa. 

Stewed  Onions  (Excellent). — For  a  small  family,  prepare 
about  one  dozen  small  onions  (mature  ones),  parboil  them  a  few 
minutes,  drain  and  add  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them,  also 
add  T/i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  sprinkling  of  red  pepper  and  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Boil  until  tender.  Then  add 
half  a  cup  of  cream  and  let  boil  a  minute  or  two  longer.  Serve  hot. 
— Sister  N.  D.  Under  hill,  Collbran,  Colo. 


144 


VEGETABLES 


Stewed  Onions. — Take  about  12  large  onions,  slice,  and  cook 
in  salt  water  until  done ;  then  put  in  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
about  a  cup  of  cream,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it 
boil,  as  it  will  curdle,  only  let  it  get  good  and  hot. — Sister  Nettie 
Smith,  Red  Cloud,  Nebr. 

Parsnip  Balls. — Take  a'bout  1  quart  of  parsnips  cooked  well 
done  and  mash  fine,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  a  little  good  cream ; 
add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  2  small  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  mix  well, 
form  into  balls,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  butter. — Sister  Clara  Alstadt, 
Carrington,  N .  Dak. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Pare  parsnips  and  cut  lengthwise ;  boil  in 
salt  water  until  tender,  take  out,  and  drain ;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in 
hot  butter  until  nicely  browned. — Sister  Mary  E.  Shafer,  Trot- 
wood,  Ohio. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Pare  and  slice  parsnips  and  fry  in  lard 
just  the  same  as  raw  potatoes. — Sister  M.  C.  Whitesel,  Wayside, 
Wash. 

Stewed  Parsnips. — Prepare  and  put  the  parsnips  to  cook  in 
a  porcelain  kettle  in  1  quart  of  water,  stew  for  15  minutes,  drain, 
pour  over  them  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  cook  from  45  to  60  min- 
utes, drain  again,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  or  fresh  beef 
stock  if  you  have  it. — Sister  E.  E.  Scroggs,  Centerview,  Mo. 

Baked  Pears. — Halve  and  core  your  pears  and  make  the  fol- 
lowing mixture :  To  one  cup  of  sugar  add  1  cup  of  flour  and  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  butter.  Mix  well  and  fill  each  half  with  this 
mixture  and  put  enough  water  in  pan  so  as  not  to  burn.  Bake 
until  well  done.  Apples  can  be  baked  in  the  same  way. — Sister 
Grace  Moats,  Polo,  Mo. 

Dried  Peas. — Wash  well  in  warm  water  a  good-sized  cup  of 
peas,  then  put  them  into  the  kettle  in  which  they  are  to  be  boiled 
with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  let  them  soak  for  twelve  or  fourteen 
hours.  When  they  are  swelled  up  nicely,  season  with  salt  to  suit 
taste  and  put  in  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  boil  slowly  until 


VEGETABLES 


145 


done,  being  careful  to  add  water,  if  necessary,  to  prevent  them  from 
burning.  When  cooked,  mix  to  a  cream  a  small  teaspoonful  of  flour 
and  add  to  Y>  cup  of  cream  (not  milk),  then  pour  it  into  the  kettle 
and  stir  a  few  minutes  while  boiling.  The  water  should  not  be 
drained  off  the  peas  before  adding  the  dressing,  neither  should 
there  be  too  much  water,  or  the)''  will  lack  flavor. — Sister  Lovena  S. 
Andes,  Elgin,  III. 

Green  Peas. — Shell  peas  and  put  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes ; 
take  out  and  put  in  boiling  salt  water  and  cook  till  tender;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  ;  take  up,  drain,  put  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  them.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  at  once. — Sister  Perry  Broadwater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Green  Peas, — To  1  quart  of  green  peas  shelled,  put  y2  cup 
of  butter  in  a  stew  pan;  when  very  hot,  turn  in  the  peas,  stir  quick- 
ly, add  boiling  water  to  cook,  salt  to  taste ;  when  ready  to  serve, 
add  j/2  cup  of  sweet  cream. — Sister  J.  D.  Teeter,  Rex,  Fla. 

Garden  Peppers  Stuffed  With  Meat. — The  sweet  peppers 
form  one  of  the  nicest  receptacles  for  the  use  of  cold  meats — beef, 
mutton,  chicken,  or  turkey.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  cold  boiled  rice  or  bread  crumbs,  add  a  few  tomatoes 
(with  the  seeds  removed)  chopped  fine,  and  also  1  chopped  onion 
and  a  little  salt.  Remove  the  tops  and  seeds  from  the  peppers, 
scald  and  wash  them,  fill  with  the  meat  mixture,  stand  in  a  baking 
dish,  add  y2  cup  of  stock,  or  water  and  a  little  butter,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  one  hour,  basting  frequently. — Sister  J.  F.  Thomas, 
Inglewood,  Cal. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Wash  nice  and  clean,  cut  in  thick  slices, 
lengthwise,  a  common-sized  potato.  Cut  in  about  4  slices,  lay  them 
in  the  oven.  Bake  until  well  done,  nice  and  brown,  when  they  will 
be  crisp  and  palatable  and  good  enough  for  a  guest.  To  pare  them 
makes  them  nicer,  but  it  is  not  considered  as  healthful. — Sister 
Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 


146 


VEGETABLES 


Baked  Potatoes, — Pare  medium-sized  potatoes,  roll  in  flour 
and  put  in  dripping  pan,  with  a  generous  quantity  of  butter  and 
lard ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  bake  till  done.  Serve  with 
cream  gravy  made  by  adding  flour  to  the  grease  that  is  left  in  the 
pan.  After  the  potatoes  have  been  taken  up,  brown  slightly,  add 
milk  or  cream,  and  let  boil  up. — Sister  Alice  Garber,  North  English, 
Iowa. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Scoop  out  the  inside  of  a  well-baked  po- 
tato, add  salt,  butter  and  hot  cream.  Beat  until  white  and  light. 
Put  this  back  into  the  shell  and  return  to  the  oven  until  the  exposed 
filling  is  a  golden  brown.  This  is  an  attractive,  appetizing  dish  for 
an  invalid's  tray. — Sister  Oina  Karn,  Covington,  Ohio. 

Browned  Potatoes. — Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  them  in  halves, 
put  in  the  dripping  pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  add  y2  pint  of  water.  Let  them  bake  until  done ;  then 
take  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  y2  pint  of  cream  and  make  a  dressing 
and  put  over  the  potatoes.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil,  then  dish  and 
serve  hot. — Sister  Lizzie  E.  Smith,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Potato  Cakes. — Take  any  cold  pork  that  may  be  left  over, 
chop  fine,  add  3  times  as  much  cold  mashed  potatoes  as  you  have 
meat,  enough  eggs  to  make  a  thin  batter,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; beat  well  and  fry  the  same  as  griddle  cakes. — Sister  S.  E.  Ren- 
tier, Payette,  Idaho. 

Potato  Chips. — Have  potatoes  clean,  pare  them,  wipe  dry 
with  clean  cloth.  Slice  thin  on  slaw  cutter,  only  slicing  several 
potatoes  at  a  time,  as  they  color  if  sliced  long  before  frying.  Have 
1%  pints  of  lard  real  hot.  Drop  the  sliced  potatoes  into  this.  Stir 
carefully  once  or  twice  while  frying,  only  allow  them  to  become  a 
light-brown.  Lift  into  a  sieve  or  colander  to  drain,  afterward  put- 
ting them  into  an  earthen  or  porcelain  vessel,  sprinkling  a  little  salt 
over  them  as  you  put  them  into  this.  When  cold,  cover  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place,  where  they  can  be  kept  for  a  few  weeks.  The  lard 
can  be  used  a  number  of  times  if  covered  and  kept  in  a  cool  place. 
Use  a  wire  spoon  or  wide  fork  for  stirring  and  lifting  the  potatoes. 


VEGETABLES 


147 


They  are  to  be  kept  dry  in  order  to  retain  the  crispness,  which 
makes  them  more  palatable. — Sister  J.  P.  Holsinger,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Potato  Chowder. — Pare  6  good-sized  potatoes,  dice  them 
and  put  on  to  boil  in  clear  water  with  a  medium-sized  finely-shredded 
onion.  Dice  about  ^  of  a  pound  of  nice  bacon  and  put  it  into  a 
skillet  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  then  add  the  bacon  to  the  potatoes, 
first  pouring  off  most  of  the  grease.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
into  the  skillet,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about  j£  pint  of 
rich  milk,  more  if  you  like  it  thin ;  after  this  boils  up,  pour  it  into 
the  potatoes  and  bacon,  add  salt,  red  pepper,  and  a  small  bunch  of 
minced  parsley ;  let  it  boil  up  well  and  serve  hot. — Sister  John  E. 
Mohler,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Creamed  Potatoes. — Pare  and  cut  potatoes  into  dice-shaped 
pieces ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter ;  add  water  to  cook 
them.  Cook  until  soft,  but  not  mushy.  Then  make  a  thickening  of 
flour  and  milk  and  stir  it  into  the  potatoes.  Let  boil  up  and  serve. — 
Sister  L.  H.  Funk,  Kansas  City,  M o. 

Dewey  Potato  Cakes, — Take  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes, 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very 
little  nutmeg.  Mix  well  together,  make  into  round  cakes,  roll  in 
flour,  fry  in  butter,  turning  carefully  ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  spread  on  top  of  each  cake.  Bake  a  delicate 
brown. — Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Potatoes  With  Dressing. — Pare  as  many  potatoes  as  you 
wish  and  put  into  a  kettle  to  cook  with  plenty  of  water  to  prevent 
burning.  Boil  a  few  minutes  while  you  prepare  a  dressing,1  the 
same  as  for  chicken.  Make  in  balls  and  drop  into  the  kettle  with 
the  potatoes  and  cook  briskly  for  one-half  hour.  Prepare  a  cream 
gravy  and  pour  over  all  when  done.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 
— Anna  Zimmerman,  Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Fried  Potatoes. — Chop  potatoes  very  fine,  put  them  into  a 
frying  pan  with  a  little  hot  fat ;  when  they  have  slightly  browned  on 
the  bottom,  turn  and  fry  until  thoroughly  cooked. — Sister  Mary  E. 
Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 


148 


VEGETABLES 


French  Fried  Potatoes. — Pare  potatoes  and  slice  lengthwise 
about  34  inch  thick,  cutting  the  slices  in  strips  the  same  thickness, 
lay  on  a  dry  cloth.  Have  a  skillet  half  full  of  hot  lard,  drop  the 
potatoes  in  this,  stirring  once  or  twice  while  frying.  Let  them  fry 
until  a  light  brown,  lift  into  a  colander  with  a  wire  spoon  to  drain, 
salt  and  turn  them  in  a  dish  ;  serve  hot. — Sister  Lillie  Wagner,  Vir- 
den,  III. — If  the  fat  is  too  hot  they  will  not  be  cooked  well  on  the 
inside  when  they  are  brown  enough  on  the  outside. — Sister  Pearl 
W cimer,  St.  Elmo,  Va. 

Fried  Potatoes  and  Onions. — Pare  ]/2  gallon  of  potatoes, 
cook  in  salt  water,  slice  6  large  onions  and  fry  in  grease  till  soft ; 
slice  the  potatoes  with  the  onions  and  let  fry  10  minutes.  Salt  to 
suit  the  taste. — Sister  H.  G.  Miller,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Potato  Fritters. — Take  4  small  potatoes,  mash  till  smooth, 
add  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  thicken.  Drop  in  hot  lard  and  fry  in 
small  cakes.    Serve  hot. — Sister  Ella  Miller,  Darlow,  Kans. 

Potato  Hash. — Peel  1  quart  of  onions  and  1  of  potatoes.  Slice 
them  together  and  boil  them  tender  in  y2  gallon  of  water.  Then  add 
1  pint  sweet  cream,  a  lump  of  butter  the. size  of  an  egg.  A  good 
supper  dish. — Sister  Charlotte  Roberts,  Artemas,  Pa. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Pare  the  potatoes,  wash  and  put  on  to 
cook  in  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning,  put  some  salt 
in  while  cooking,  stick  with  a  fork  and  see  when  done.  Mash  fine, 
add  butter  and  cream  to  make  as  thin  as  you  want  them. — Sister 
Sadie  A.  Good,  New  Market,  Va. — When  the  potatoes  are  ready 
to  mash  put  the  cream  on  the  stove  in  a  vessel  and  when  hot  add  to 
the  mashed  potatoes. — Sister  Florence  Hays  Cline,  Broadway,  Va. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Mash  and  beat  your  potatoes  until  quite 
light  and  white.  Season  with  salt,  butter,  and  rich  milk.  Then 
make  a  division  through  the  center  of  the  potatoes,  have  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separate.  Stir  the  whites  in  one  half, 
yolks  in  the  other.  Now  take  a  large  spoonful  alternate,  stack  on 
a  pie  pan,  smooth  a  little,  set  in  hot  oven  for  15  minutes  to  brown. 


VEGETABLES 


149 


With  a  broad  knife  blade  place  on  potato  tureen. — Sister  Mary  B. 
Peck,  Manvel,  Texas. 

Baked  Mashed  Potatoes. — Boil,  cook  and  mash  potatoes,  add 
milk  and  cream  with  2  well-beaten  eggs,  stir  until  light  and  drop  in 
well-buttered  pan  by  spoonfuls,  bake  in  oven  till  nicely  brown. — 
Sister  Anna  Zimmerman,  Mt.  Solon,  V a. 

New  Potatoes. — Select  potatoes  of  the  same  size,  about  the 
size  of  a  large  egg,  boil  until  just  tender  in  salt  water  and  drain. 
Have  a  frying  pan  with  a  generous  amount  of  hot  lard  and  a  lump 
of  butter  in  it,  and  carefully  lift  the  potatoes  with  a  fork  or  spoon 
into  the  hot  grease.  Fry  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  They  should 
not  break  but  remain  whole.  They  are  a  nice  dish  for  company  or 
any  one. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

To  Cook  New  Potatoes. — Cook  potatoes  in  salt  wrater  until 
tender,  cut  in  halves,  then  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter  until  a  nice 
brown,  the  same  as  you  would  fry  chicken. — Sister  Clara  Ringer, 
Oregon,  III. 

Potato  Puffs. — Take  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Stir  well  together,  bake  in  gem  pans,  and  serve  while  hot. 
— Sister  Laura  Barkloiv,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

To  Roast  Potatoes. — Half  boil  large  potatoes,  drain,  put 
them  into  a  small  pan  under  meat  that  is  roasting,  baste  them  with 
some  of  the  drippings ;  when  they  are  browned  on  one  side  then 
turn  and  brown  the  other.  Serve  with  the  meat. — Sister  Amy  V. 
Furry,  Jolmsville,  Aid. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Take  3  pints  of  thinly-sliced  potatoes, 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  put  in  a  deep  dish,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  add  sweet  milk  to  cover  the  potatoes,  then  put  in  the  oven 
and  bake. — Sister  Charity  White,  Ari,  Ind. 


150 


VEGETABLES 


Scalloped  Potatoes. — Take  about  1  quart  of  bread  crumbs, 
put  in  oven  and  brown  a  light  brown ;  then  pare  and  slice  potatoes ; 
take  a  pan  3  inches  deep  or  any  size  that  will  suit  the  family ;  first 
put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  bread  crumbs,  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter  till  the  amount  is  all  used ;  then  cover  with  milk  and  set 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  y2  hour. — Sister  M.  C.  Whitesel,  Wayside, 
Wash 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Pare  as  many  potatoes  as  you  wish. 
Slice  them.  Then  take  a  bread  pan  and  put  in  enough  potatoes  to 
cover  the  bottom.  Sprinkle  salt  and  bits  of  butter  over  them,  and 
then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  salt  and  butter,  and  so  on  until  the 
potatoes  are  all  in  the  pan.  Then  pour  in  rich  milk,  enough  to  cover 
the  potatoes.  Set  in  oven  to  bake.  Bake  until  the  potatoes  are  soft 
and  a  little  brown  on  top.  Serve  while  warm. — Sister  Ella  Heck- 
man,  Ccrro  Gordo,  III. 

Scalloped  Potatoes, — Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  the  same 
as  for  frying,  place  half  of  them  in  a  baking  pan,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  bits  of  butter ;  then  add  the  other  half  of  the  potatoes  and 
season  again  the  same  as  before.  Pour  in  enough  sweet  milk  to 
cover  the  potatoes.  Bake  in  the  oven  about  1  hour,  or  until  the  pota- 
toes are  soft.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  used  the  same  way  and 
do  not  require  more  than  y2  hour  for  baking. — Sister  Mary  Snow- 
berger,  Leeton,  Mo. 

Cold  Scalloped  Potatoes. — Hash  fine  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
put  in  a  pudding  dish  or  skillet,  pour  over  boiling  milk  with  a  little 
butter  and  salt  to  season.  Bake  1  hour  or  more,  until  the  milk  is 
all  taken  up  by  the  potatoes.  Quite  palatable  if  just  right.  Raw 
potatoes  can  be  scalloped  the  same,  only  slice  instead  of  hash  the 
potatoes. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Sour  Potatoes. — Take  about  1  quart  of  pared  potatoes,  cut 
them  in  thick  slices,  put  in  a  stew  kettle  with  1  pint  of  water  and 
cook  until  done.  Let  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  get  hot  in  a  frying 
pan,  then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  have  ready  y2  teacupful 
of  vinegar  and  1  teacupful  of  good  sour  cream;  pour  it  into  the 


VEGETABLES 


151 


lard  and  flour,  stir,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  when  it  boils, 
pour  it  over  the  potatoes  and  serve. — Sister  Sarah  Miller,  Sabetha, 
Kans. 

For  Cooking  Potatoes. — Have  the  water  boiling  hot  when 
the  potatoes  are  put  into  the  pot,  either  pared  or  with  the  skins  on. 
— Sister  I.  C.  Myers,  Greenmount,  Va. 

In  frying  sliced  potatoes,  especially  the  last  old  ones  or  the 
first  new  ones,  just  sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  over  them  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  mix  thoroughly  when  first  put  on  and 
see  how  much  quicker  and  better  they  brown,  do  not  use  any  water 
on  fried  potatoes,  but  have  the  lard  smoking  hot  before  they  are 
put  in.  A  cast  iron  skillet  is  best  for  good  results. — Sister  L. 
Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

To  Cook  Sweet  Potatoes. — Pare  potatoes  and  cut  length- 
wise, put  in  a  vessel,  cover  with  beef  or  chicken  broth,  cook  quick- 
ly.-— Sister  Ida  B.  Hamilton,  Springport,  Ind. 

To  Cook  Sweet  Potatoes. — For  y2  gallon  of  potatoes.,  take  1 
cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  a  little  salt.  Put  all  in  a  kettle  and  let  brown  just  a  little,  then 
add  about  a  quart  of  water  and  boil  until  almost  dry,  and  there  will 
be  a  good,  rich  syrup  over  the  potatoes. — Sister  Lizzie  Warble,  Mt. 
Morris,  III. 

Sweet  Potatoes  Baked  with  Apples. — Take  4  large  sweet 
potatoes  or  6  medium-sized  ones,  the  same  number  of  apples,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter  and  pint  of  hot  water.  Scrub  potatoes 
clean ;  boil  until  tender,  slice,  after  having  peeled  them,  in  slices  Y\ 
of  an  inch  thick.  Pare  the  apples,  slice  them  in  the  same  way  and 
put  in  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  on  top 
and  scatter  the  butter  over  the  top ;  pour  over  the  water  and  bake 
one  hour  slowly.  Serve  hot,  as  a  vegetable. — Sister  Pearl  Weimer, 
St.  Elmo,  Va. 


152 


VEGETABLES 


Creamed  Sweet  Potatoes. — Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  in  pieces?, 
and  boil  in  salt  water  till  nearly  done,  then  season  with  butter  and 
a  little  sugar,  and  add  1  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Put  the  seasoned 
potatoes  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  slowly  until  done. — Sister 
John  E.  Metsger,  Rossville,  Ind. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. — Pare  and  cut  lengthwise  in  rather 
thin  slices.  Roll  in  flour.  Lay  in  a  large  pan.  in  which  are  lard 
and  butter  melted.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar.  Add  some  water. 
When  baked  on  the  underside,  turn.  Bake  slowly. — Sister  Xettie 
C.  JVeybright,  Syracuse,  Ind. — We  add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the 
flour  in  which  the  potatoes  are  rolled,  but  do  not  use  any  water  in 
baking  them.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  prepare  sweet  potatoes. — 
Sister  Blanche  Lentz,  Elgin,  III. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. — Take  Yi  gallon  of  sweet  potatoes, 
wash  and  pare;  put  them  into  a  stew  pan  with  enough  water  to 
cook  them  half  done ;  then  take  a  dripping  pan  and  melt  in  it  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  put  the  potatoes  in  the  melted 
butter  and  turn  them  so  they  will  be  buttered  all  over;  sprinkle  a 
little  sugar  over  them,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  they 
are  brown.  They  are  then  ready  to  serve. — Sister  Sarah  Shirk, 
Plattsburg,  Mo. 

Boiled  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. — Pare  and  cut  potatoes  length- 
wise in  rather  thin  slices ;  place  them  in  a  skillet  with  water  enough 
to  cook  them  tender.  Add  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and 
enough  butter  or  lard  to  fry  them  a  nice  brown  when  boiled  dry. — 
Sister  Susie  Peters,  Emporia,  Kans. 

Pumpkin  Fritters. — Take  1  quart  of  pie  pumpkin,  mash,  add  1 
to  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough  flour  stir-red  in  to  make 
them  into  a  batter.  Fry  like  pancakes  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Daisy 
Evans,  Los  Angeles.  Cal. 

Radish  Slaw. — When  radishes  get  too  strong  for  table  use, 
pare  and  slice  thin,  sprinkle  salt  over  them  and  let  stand  about  20  or 
30  minutes  ;  pour  off  the  water  and  dress  with  cream  and  vinegar. — 
Sister  Maggie  Picking,  Buckeye,  Kans. 


VEGETABLES 


153 


To  Cook  Rice. — Boil  1  cup  of  rice  till  done,  then  drain  and 
add  sugar,  a  little  milk  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Beat  the  white  of 
the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  it  the  rice  while  boiling  hot. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. — Sister  I.  T.  Myers,  Lena,  III. 

Baked  Rice. — Take  1  pint  of  rice,  cook  it,  then  add  1  cup  of 
currants,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  3  eggs  well  beaten ; 
put  all  together  in  a  baking  dish,  then  pour  over  it  rich  sweet 
milk  till  the  rice  is  covered.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Lydia 
Hoover,  Bevansville,  Md. 

To  Prepare  Rice. — Take  J/2  cup  of  rice  to  about  1  quart  of 
cold  water,  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  pour  off  the  hot  water 
and  add  cold  Water  which  should  again  come  to  a  boil,  and  boil  a 
short  time,  pouring  off  the  hot  water  a  second  time ;  then  add  cold 
water  a  third  time.  Let  boil  5  minutes,  then  put  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  and  cook  slowly ;  season  and  stir  only  sufficiently  to  keep  from 
sticking,  until  it  is  soft.  To  bake  it,  remove  the  rice  before  it  is 
cooked  soft,  put  in  a  pudding  dish,  season  with  salt  and  butter  and 
1  pint  of  rich  milk,-  after  which  bake  for  20  minutes  or  T/2  hour. — 
Sister  J.  I.  Keim,  Elklick,  Pa. 

Baked  Rice. — Take  T/2  cup  of  rice  to  1  quart  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon  to  suit  taste;  put 
in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  rice  is  done.  Serve  with  cream. — 
Sister  Sarah  Gates,  Beattie,  Kans. 

Baked  Rice. — Wash  1  cup  of  rice  and  1  cup  of  raisins.  Pour 
over  them  3  pints  of  rich  sweet  milk  and  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Pour  in  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  till  the  rice  is  tender.    Stir  occa- 
.   sionally  while  baking.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Minna 
Robinson,  Ellison,  N.  Dak. 

Rice  Balls. — Take  1  teacup  of  rice,  cook  until  well  done,  then 
add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  well-beaten  egg.  Make  in  balls  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Roll  in  cracker  dust  and  drop  in  hot  lard  until  a 
nice  brown.    Serve  warm.-  -Sister  Annie  Keim,  Elklick,  Pa. 


154 


VEGETABLES 


Cold  Creamed  Rice. — Take  cold  cream,  whip,  sweeten,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla,  mix  with  cold  cooked  rice.  This  is  an  excellent 
way  to  use  left-over  rice. — Sister  Martha  Reiit  Tobias,  Camden, 
hid. 

Rice  and  Cheese. — Cook  1  cup  of  washed  rice  in  plain  boil- 
ing water,  to  which  salt  has  been  added.  When  done  put  in  a  pan 
enough  rice  to  cover  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  with 
a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  some  butter.  Then  put  in  more  rice,  and  so 
on  till  the  pan  is  filled  or  the  rice  is  all  used.  Moisten  with  good 
milk  or  cream,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  until  brown. — Sister 
Pearl  Plum,  Polo,  III. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Take  1  quart  of  cold  cooked  rice,  1  egg  and 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  mold  into  croquettes,  put 
into  well-oiled  pan.  sprinkle  finely  rolled  or  sifted  cracker  crumbs 
on  top,  then  a  little  butter,  and  put  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  a  tomato 
sauce  with  them.  Tomato  sauce:  Mix  together  \y2  cups  con- 
densed tomato,  Yz  cup  water  and  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Thicken  with  a  little  flour. — Sister  Bertha  Butcher,  Sterling,  III. 

Rice  and  Curry. — Cut  in  inch  pieces  1  pound  of  mutton  or 
beef  ,  place  in  a  kettle  with  2  cups  of  water,  let  stew  till  tender,  then 
thicken  with  flour  and  milk.  While  the  meat  is  stewing,  wash  thor- 
oughly 1  pound  of  good  rice,  place  in  a  kettle  with  2  inches  or  more 
of  water  to  cover  it.  cook  till  done.  Take  a  grain  of  the  rice  be- 
tween the  thumb  and  finger,  when  soft  enough  to  mash,  it  is  done; 
then  throw  into  the  rice  1  quart  of  cold  water,  turn  into  a  colander 
to  drain.  When  well  drained,  return  to  the  kettle  and  keep  in  a  hot 
place  on  the  stove  till  needed.  If  properly  cooked,  there  will  be  no 
gluey  substance  in  the  rice  and  every  grain  will  be  separate.  Into 
a  hot  frying  pan  put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  let  it  brown  but  not 
burn,  throw  into  the  hot  butter  a  finely-cut  onion,  stirring  briskly: 
when  done,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  stirring  all 
briskly  as  when  browning  flour.  Into  this  mixture  put  the  meat 
stew :  let  cook  a  few  minutes,  season  to  taste,  and  it  is  now  ready 
to  serve.    Serve  your  guests  with  rice,  dipping  over  it  a  spoonful  of 


VEGETABLES 


155 


the  curry  dressing,  mixing  it  thoroughly  with  the  rice.  This  is 
enough  for  8  persons. — Sister  D.  L.  Miller,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

French  Rice. — Put  1  cup  of  rice  in  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  tender.  Take  off  and  add  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  which  have 
previously  been  put  through  a  colander  to  get  rid  of  the  seeds  and 
lumps.  Slice  in  %  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  and  add  salt  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  well.  Then  bake  twenty  minutes.  Do  not 
have  this  too  dry.  To  be  extra  good  it  must  not  be  thick  enough 
to  stand  when  a  spoonful  is  dipped  out. — Sister  W.  J.  Haynes, 
Moored  eld,  Xebr. 

Fried  Rice. — Cook  1  cup  rice  till  soft,  add  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  all  together 
thoroughly.  Have  a  spider  ready  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or 
lard  melted,  drop  the  rice  in.  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  When  a  nice 
brown  turn  and  fry  on  the  other  side.  This  makes  a  fine  breakfast 
dish— Sister  Ella  Pratt,  Payette,  Idaho. 

Spanish  Rice. — Take  a  slice  of  bacon  cut  into  small  bits, 
a  small  onion  chopped  line,  4  medium-sized  tomatoes,  1  cup  of  cold 
boiled  rice  :  put  the  bacon  and  onion  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown,  add 
the  tomatoes,  then  the  rice.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
— Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Rice  Stew. — For  a  small  family  take  a  1-pound  veal  stewr, 
wash,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  allow  to  boil  rapidly  for  a  few 
minutes.  Then  skim,  turn  fire  low  and  allow  to  simmer  slowly  un- 
til tender.  Remove  from  liquid  and  add  J  2  cup  of  rice  which  has 
been  previously  soaked.  1  or  2  onions  cut  fine,  some  celery  chopped 
fine  and  1  pint  of  tomatoes  run  through  a  colander.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  suit  taste.  Cook  until  rice  is  done.  Rice  stew  made  with 
fresh  pork  is  also  very  wholesome,  omitting  onions,  celery  and  toma- 
toes.— Sister  Xannie  Byer  Xezccomer,  SoutJi  Bend,  Ind. 

Spinach. — Wash  the  spinach  thoroughly  and  cook  in  salted 
water  till  it  is  tender.  Then  drain  the  water  off  and  season  with 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  one  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Vinegar  may  also 
be  added,  if  desired. — Sister  Mary  C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 


156 


VEGETABLES 


Spinach.— Wash  spinach  carefully,  then  cook  in  salted  water 
until  soft,  which  may  require  10  or  20  minutes;  drain,  and  pour 
over  it  melted  butter  or  fry  slightly  in  ham  drippings.  Serve  with 
vinegar  if  liked. — Sister  Leah  Sell,  Sharpsburg,  Md. 

To  Cook  Summer  Squash. — Pare  squash,  remove  the  seeds, 
cook  till  dry  and  soft ;  mash  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and 
sugar.  A  little  cream  added  will  improve  it,  but  it  is  very  good 
without. — Sister  Hannah  Kreitzer,  Sabetha,  Kans. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Prepare  tomatoes  as  to  cook ;  put  in  a 
saucepan,  dredge  with  flour,  add  butter  and  sugar  to  taste;  put  in 
the  oven  and  bake. — Sister  Sarah  C.  Gates,  Beattie,  Kans. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Slice  1  layer  of  ripe  tomatoes  in  a  dish, 
put  over  it  one  layer  of  bread,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  continue  until  the 
dish  is  full.   Bake  to  a  light  brown.    Serve  while  warm. — Sister  H. 

G.  Miller,  Bridgcwater,  Va. 

French  Fried  Tomatoes. — Cut  firm  ripe  tomatoes  in  thick 
slices,  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
brown  in  butter. — Sister  Efhe  Eugenia  Reese,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Take  tomatoes  not  too  ripe,  cut  into 
slices  y2  inch  thick,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  butter; 
after  they  are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  pour  in  cream  for 
dressing  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. — Sister  J.  G.  Royer,  Mt. 
Morris,  III. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Peel  some  ripe  tomatoes  and  cut  them  in 
slices  y2  inch  thick ;  put  2  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying  pan ;  when 
hot,  put  a  layer  of  the  slices  of  tomato  into  the  pan  and  fry  brown 
on  both  sides.  Remove  to  a  warm  vegetable  dish;  put  y2  cupful 
of  hot  water  into  the  frying  pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 


VEGETABLES 


157 


a  little  sugar,  thicken  with  browned  flour;  pour  the  gravy  over  the 
fried  tomatoes  and  serve. — Sister  S.  E.  Neft,  Huntington,  hid. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Peel  solid  tomatoes,  cut  in  halves,  dip 
in  flour  and  fry  in  butter  on  a  very  hot  stove;  when  fried  on  one 
side,  slice  onion  into  them,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar ;  after  being 
fried  brown  add  sweet  cream  and  bake  in  oven  until  well  done. — 
Sister  J.  D.  Buckwalter,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes. — Take  nice,  firm,  green  tomatoes; 
slice  very  thin,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard  until  nicely 
browned  on  both  sides.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  while  frying. 
Serve  while  hot. — Sister  Luvema  Sheets,  Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Tomato  Mush. — Take  as  many  tomatoes  as  you  desire  for  a 
meal,  peel  and  slice  them  in  a  dish,  then  crumb  up  as  much  bread 
as  you  have  tomatoes ;  put  in  a  skillet  a  large  piece  of  butter,  put  it 
on  the  stove  and  let  brown ;  then  stir  the  crumbed  bread  into  it, 
then  the  tomatoes ;  stir  until  the  tomatoes  are  done ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sugar;  when  done,  pour  over  them  y2  cupful  of 
sweet  cream ;  take  up  and  serve. — Sister  Sarah  Miller,  Sabetha, 
Kans. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  put  it  in  the  frying  pan ;  cut  1  onion  in  small  pieces  and  let  stew 
in  the  butter  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  until  a  light  brown ;  pour 
in  1  can  of  tomatoes  or  1  quart  of  fresh  ones,  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cook  until  as  thick  as  desired. — Sister 
Luanna  Smith,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Stew  your  tomatoes,  add  a  pinch  of 
soda,  stir  and  let  boil  up,  then  add  butter,  sugar  and  pepper.  To 
this  add  a  thickening  made  of  sweet  milk  and  flour.  Let  come  to  a 
boil  and  then  add  salt.  Pour  into  a  dish  of  broken  bread  crusts  or 
crackers. — Sister  F.  E.  Miller,  Chanute,  Kans. — Toasting  the  bread 
before  using  it  with  the  tomatoes  in  this  way  improves  the  dish.— 
Sister  Blanche  Lentz,  Elgin,  III. 


158 


VEGETABLES 


Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Select  smooth,  medium-sized  tomatoes. 
Cut  out  the  smooth  end  carefully,  remove  the  seeds  and  fill  with 
the  following  dressing:  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  ground 
meat,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  milk  to  soften.  Add  the  tomato 
seeds  and  fill  each  tomato.  Then  replace  the  ends  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  pan.  Onions  may  be  added  to  the  dressing  if  liked.  Serve 
whole. — Sister  Martha  E.  Lear,  Ccrro  Gordo,  III. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Take  12  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a  baking  pan,  cut  a  thin  slice 
from  the  smooth  end  of  each ;  with  a  small  spoon,  scoop  out  as  much 
of  the  pulp  and  juice  as  possible  without  injuring  their  shape.  When 
all  have  been  treated  in  this  way.  mix  the  pulp  with  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Put  on  the  tops, 
and  bake  slowly  ^4  of  an  hour.  Slide  the  cake  turner  under  the 
tomatoes  and  lift  gently  on  a  flat  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and 
serve. — Sister  Kate  C.  Hershberger,  Vinton,  Va. 

Turkish  Poulette.— Cook  ]A  cup  of  rice  as  usual.  When 
done  add  T/2  pint  of  tomatoes,  either  canned  or  fresh  cooked,  and 
3  large  onions,  which  have  been  previously  cooked  in  salt  water 
and  drained.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.— Sister  Pearl 
Plum,  Polo,  III 

Boiled  Turnips. — Peel  and  slice  the  turnips.  Have  water 
boiling  hot,  put  the  turnips  in  and  boil  about  five  minutes.  Then 
drain  the  water  off.  Put  the  turnips  back  over  to  cook  done  with  a 
third  the  amount  of  potatoes  as  turnips.  Season  with  salt,  butter 
and  lard,  or  beef  broth.— Sister  Florence  Hays  Kline,  Broadway, 
Va, 

Mashed  Turnips— Boil  the  turnips  quite  tender,  drain  them 
as  dry  as  possible,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and  mash  with  a  spoon. 


VEGETABLES 


159 


Add  a  little  butter  and  keep  stirring  them  till  the  butter  is  melted. 
Season  also  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. — Sister  Amy  V.  Furry, 
Johnsville,  Md. 

Turnip  Sauce. — Take  of  turnips  y$  and  potatoes  Ys  ;  pare, 
and  cook  until  done.  Then  mash  or  put  through  a  potato  ricer. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve.  Unlike  mashed 
potatoes  alone,  this  is  good  cold  or  can  be  reheated. — Sister  Joseph 
Amick,  Elgin,  III. 

Turnip  Slaw. — Slice  the  turnips  on  a  slaw  cutter.  Cook  in 
salt  water  until  very  tender ;  then  pour  off  water  and  make  a  dress- 
ing of  vinegar,  sugar,  sour  cream  and  a  little  flour.  Serve  hot. — 
Sister  Guy  E.  Foresman,  Lafayette,  Ind. 

Turnip  Slaw. — Pare  the  turnips  and  slice  thin.  Put  a  little 
lard,  about  a  teaspoonful,  in  a  skillet,  put  the  turnips  in,  and  when 
wilted  pour  water  on  and  cook  until  done  and  dry.  Season  with 
salt.  Then  make  a  dressing  with  sugar,  sweet  cream,  1  egg,  and  a 
little  vinegar,  if  desired,  pour  this  over  the  turnips  and  let  come  to  a 
boil. — Sister  R.  F.  Brubaker,  San  Dimas,  Cat. 

A  Substitute  for  Meat. — When  boiling  beans,  cabbage  or 
turnips,  brown  some  flour  in  lard  and  put  in  with  the  vegetables  in- 
stead of  meat,  and  it  will  taste  just  as  good. — Sister  Cora  Sell  Bru- 
baker, Hollidaysburg,  Pa. 

When  Corn  or  Rice  Is  Left  Over,  add  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  scant  T/2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  enough  flour  to 
thicken  like  pancake  batter.  Eat  with  warm  or  cold  syrup. — Sister 
Lillus  E.  Mohan,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Salt  will  Curd  New  Milk;  hence  in  preparing  dishes  contain- 
ing milk,  the  salt  should  not  be  added  until  they  are  cooked. — Sister 
Chas.  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 


160 


VEGETABLES 


RECIPES  FOR  FIRELESS  COOKER. 

Cereals. 

It  is  supposed  that  most  cereals  can  be  cooked  sufficiently  within 
a  few  minutes,  but  they  really  require  considerably  more  time  in  the 
cooking  to  make  them  thoroughly  digestible.  These  can  be  cooked 
in  the  tireless  cooker  for  several  hours  with  the  least  amount  of  gas 
or  other  fuel,  to  say  nothing  of  the  need  of  watching  to  prevent 
burning  or  boiling  over.  If  your  cereal  is  for  breakfast  it  can  be 
prepared  at  night  and  allowed  to  stand  in  the  cooker  until  morning, 
when  it  will  be  found  perfectly  cooked. 

Corn  Meal  Mush. — To  4  cups  of  boiling  water  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  sift  slowly,  in  between  the  fingers  1  cup  of  corn 
meal,  stirring  all  the  time.   Leave  in  the  cooker  5  hours  or  longer. 

Rolled  Oats. — One  part  oatmeal,  two  and  one-quarter  parts 
of  water.  Salt  the  water  and  have  it  boiling.  Stir  in  oatmeal 
slowly,  and  cook  for  5  minutes,  in  upper  part  of  double  cooker. 
Fill  lower  with  boiling  water  and  put  both  in  the  fireless  cooker. 
The  oatmeal  will  cook  in  2  hours,  or  may  be  allowed  to  stand  over 
night.  Rolled  wheat,  Vitos,  Wheatena,  etc.,  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  manner. 

Rice. — One  cup  of  rice,  three  cups  of  water,  a  little  salt. 
Boil  rice  in  water  5  minutes,  then  put  in  the  cooker  for  an  hour  or 
two. 

Hulled  Wheat. — Hulled  wdieat  for  breakfast  can  be  pre- 
pared the  same  as  rice,  boilings  perhaps  10  minutes  instead  of  5,  and 
placed  in  cooker  the  night  before  wanted. 

— Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Asparagus. — Wash,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  put  in  cooker 
for  1  hour.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  mayonnaise  dressing  or  pour 
melted  butter  over  it. — Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Baked  Beans. — Wash  1  quart  of  beans  and  soak  over  night, 
In  the  morning  drain  and  cover  with  more  cold  water.   When  this 


VEGETABLES 


161 


comes  to  a  boil,  drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water,  adding-  small 
pieces  of  salt  pork,  salt  and  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses. 
Cook  for  15  minutes  on  the  stove,  then  put  in  cooker  for  3  hours; 
then  reheat  and  put  in  cooker  for  3  hours  longer.  Brown  in  oven. — 
Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

To  Boil  Green  Snap  Beans. — Break  and  wash  beans,  place 
on  fire  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Make  dressing  with  1  tablepoonful 
of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  salt  to 
taste.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  place  in  fireless  cooker  3  hours. — 
Sister  A.  C.  Thompson,  Adena,  Ohio. 

Dried  Lima  Beans. — Wash  a  pint  of  beans,  soak  for  a  few 
hours  in  warm  water  and  place  on  fire  and  boil  10  or  15  minutes. 
Drain  and  season  with  y2  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  piece  of  butter. 
Let  come  to  boil  and  place  in  cooker  3  hours. — Sister  A.  C.  Thomp- 
son, Adena,  Ohio. 

String  Beans. — Break  the  beans  into  small  pieces  of  about 
one-half  inch,  add  salt,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  Boil  5 
minutes,  then  put  in  cooker  for  3  hours.  If  they  are  to  be  creamed, 
use  milk  instead  of  water,  and  thicken  before  serving.  Season  well. 
Serve  in  warm  dish. — Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Carrots  and  Peas. — Are  delicious  served  together.  Cut  car- 
rot into  very  tiny  dice.  To  a  cup  of  these  add  \y2  cups  of  green 
peas.  Boil  in  salted  water  for  5  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  3 
hours.  Serve  with  cream  sauce. — Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley, 
Elgin,  III. 

Celery  Soup. — Three  cups  of  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces,  4  cups 
of  boiling  water,  1  sliced  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  2  cups  of  milk,  and  seasoning.  Boil  celery  5 
minutes,  then  put  in  cooker  for  2  hours.  Scald  onion  in  milk,  re- 
move onion,  put  celery  through  sieve,  add  to  milk,  put  butter  and 
flour  together,  add  to  soup,  season  and  serve  hot. — Sister  Barbara 
Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 


162 


VEGETABLES 


Codfish  Croquettes. — Shred  one  pfnt  of  codfish,  pare  and 
quarter  one  quart  of  potatoes.  .  Put  fish  and  potatoes  in  kettle, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  place  in  cooker  for 
3  hours.  Drain  well,  mash  and  beat  until  light.  Add  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  butter  and,  when  slightly  cool,  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Drop  by 
tablespoonfuls  in  hot  fat.— Sister  Barbara  Mohler  CnUey,  Elgin,  III. 

Macaroni. — Pour  boiling  salted  water  over  broken  macaroni, 
and  cook  for  5  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  3  to  4  hours.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce  and  grated  cheese. — Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Culley, 
Elgin,  III. 

Dried  Peaches. — Wash  peaches  in  cold  water,  drain  and 
cover  with  fresh  water,  soak  over  night  and  boil  slowly  for  ten 
minutes  in  water  in  which  they  soaked.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and 
place  in  cooker  for  4  hours. — Sister  Harry  Fahrney,  Elgin,  III. 

Peas. — Shell  peas  and  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  boil- 
ing point  and  allow  to  boil,  slowly  for  5  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  2 
hours  if  peas  are  small  and  very  tender,  but  allow  the  larger  peas 
to  remain  3  hours.  Add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  cream  and  reheat 
when  ready  to  serve. — Sister  Harry  Fahrney,  Elgin,  III. 

Rice. — Wash  1  pint  of  rice  through  six  waters,  drain,  add 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  3  pints  of  boiling  water.  Set  on  the  stove 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  3^  pint  of  sweet  cream  and  sugar  to 
suit  the  taste,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  place  in  tireless  cooker  3  hours 
or  until  ready  to  serve  next  meal.  When  dished  sprinkle  with 
grated  nutmeg. — Sister  A.  C.  Thompson,  Adena,  Ohio. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Mix  3  cups  of  rice,  cooked  in  fireless  cook- 
er, with  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Mould  into  croquettes,  dip  into 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  roll  in  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  like  doughnuts,  in  deep  fat.  Arrange  on  a  platter,  and  when 
ready  to  serve  pour  over  all  the  peanut  sauce  which  follows.  This 
dish  easily  fills  the  place  of  meat.    Served  with  stewed  tomatoes, 


VEGETABLES 


163 


followed  by  a  pie  or  pudding,  or  simply  by  fruit  sauce,  it  makes  a 
satisfying  vegetarian  meal.  Peanut  Sauce. — In  a  shallow  stewpan 
heat  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  oil  and  butter,  or  olive  oil.  Grate 
into  it  1  small  onion  and  fry  until  well  browned.  Add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  peanut  butter  rubbed  smooth  in  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  warm  water  (added  a  little  at  a  time  until  the  peanut  butter  is 
smooth).  Cook  all  together  gently,  for  15  minutes  or  so,  stirring 
frequently.  See  that  more  water  is  added  if  necessary  to  give 
proper  consistency.  Pour  very  hot  over  rice  or  other  croquettes 
and  serve  instantly. — Sister  Barbara  Mohler  Cidley,  Elgin,  III. 


164  VEGETABLES 


s 


VEGETABLES  165 


VEGETABLES 


It  is  possible  that  many  do*  not  value  the  salad  as  they  should 
and  recognize  its  importance  in  the  bill  of  fare.  Mrs.  Rorer,  a  well- 
known  authority  on  cookery,  says  that  salad  is  "  nature's  lubricant 
for  the  animal  machine."  Nearly  all  vegetables,  as  well  as  meats, 
may  be  used  in  salads.  The  "  making  "  of  a  salad  is  the  dressing. 
High-class  cooks  and  chefs  almost  invariably  make  use  of  mayon- 
naise or  French  dressing  in  the  preparation  of  their  salads,  using 
the  former  for  all  meat  salads  and  with  asparagus,  cauliflower  and 
tomatoes,  and  the  latter  with  cabbage,  cucumbers,  dandelions,  let- 
tuce and  cooked  green  beans.  Boiled  dressings  and  cream  dressings, 
however,  combine  well  with  most  salad  material  and  are  in  favor 
with  many  people,  especially  those  who  do  not  relish  the  salad  oil 
which  is  the  main  ingredient  in  the  mayonnaise  and  French  dress- 
ings. Noting  that  no  one  has  contributed  directions  for  making 
these  two  salad  dressings  we  give  them  here.  Mayonnaise:  The 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  salad  oil,  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  about 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Use  a  soup  plate  or 
flat-bottomed  dish  in  making  the  mayonnaise  and  stir  it  with  a 
silver  fork.  Have  all  the  ingredients  and  also  the  plate  and 
fork  as  cold  as  possible.  Put  the  egg  yolks  in  the  soup  plate,  add 
salt  and  several  drops  of  oil,  and  stir  slowly  with  the  fork,  always 
stirring  in  the  one  direction  throughout  the  process.  Continue 
adding  the  oil,  a  little  at  a  time,  alternating  with  several  drops  of  the 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice  when  the  mixture  becomes  too  thick.  As  the 
process  continues,  a  greater  amount  of  oil  or  lemon  juice  may  be 
added  each  time.  The  dressing  when  done — when  all  ingredients 
have  been  incorporated — should  have  the  appearance  of  custard  and 
be  jelly-like  in  nature.    If  not  wanted  for  immediate  use  the  dress- 

167 


168 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


ing  may  be  put  in  a  jar  and  will  keep  for  several  days  on  ice  or  in 
a  cool,  dark  place.  Other  seasoning,  as  mustard  or  a  dash  of 
cayenne,  may  be  added  when  the  salad  is  to  be  made  at  which  time 
the  dressing  may  also  be  thinned,  if  thought  necessary,  by  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  vinegar.  French  dressing  is  made  of  vinegar  and 
oil  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  the  proportions  being  two-thirds 
oil  to  one  of  vinegar.  For  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and  1  of  vinegar 
take  1  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  y2  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Dissolve 
the  salt  and  pepper  in  1  tablespoonful  of  the  oil  and  pour  over 
salad  material  in  bowl.  Then  add  remainder  of  oil  and  toss  up 
thoroughly.  Lastly  pour  the  vinegar  over  all  and  toss  together 
again.    The  salad  is  then  ready  to  serve. 

Apple  Salad. — Take  1  bunch  of  celery  cut  fine,  3  large 
apples  cut  fine  with  the  celery ;  pour  over  them  the  following  dress- 
ing: Take  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
butter  and  pepper,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
if  liked;  boil  a  few  minutes  and  pour  over  hot. — Sister  James  J. 
Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cat. 

Apple  Salad. — Take  4  medium-sized  apples,  pare,  core,  and 
chop  not  too  fine ;  of  chopped  celery  T/2  the  bulk  of  the  apples ;  1 
cupful  of  fresh  English  walnut  kernels,  broken  in  pieces,  not  cut. 
Mix  all  together.  For  dressing  take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour,  mustard 
and  salt.  Mix  this  with  1  well-beaten  egg.  Turn  on  this  a  cup  of 
boiling  milk.  Stir  briskly  and  add  y2  cup  of  vinegar.  Make  the 
dressing  several  hours  ahead  of  using,  so  that  it  will  be  cool,  and  do 
not  chop  the  apples  long  before  using,  or  they  will  discolor. — Sister 
W.  R.  Miller,  Chicago,  III. 

Apple  Salad. — Prepare  apples  enough  to  make  a  quart  when 
chopped.  Add  1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts.  Then  prepare 
the  following  dressing:  One  egg,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  prepared  mustard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  6  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  ^3  cup  of  sour  milk. 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


169 


Cook  these  thoroughly,  then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
When  this  is  cold  pour  over  the  nuts  and  apples. — Sister  Martha  E. 
Lear,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Bean  Salad. — Cook  the  beans  (string)  tender,  slice  a  small 
onion  with  them  after  removing  from  the  stove  and  cover  with  the 
following  dressing:  Two  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  and  1  cup  of  vinegar.  (A  little  mus- 
tard may  be  added,  if  liked.)  Cook  until  it  thickens.  It  may  be 
used  cold  or  hot. — Sister  L  F.  Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cat. 

.  Cold  Bean  Salad. — Take  1  can  of  kidney  beans,  4  hard 
boiled  eggs,  1  large  sour  pickle,  1  large  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  eggs  (reserve  one  to 
garnish),  pickle  and  onions  separately,  and  add  to  the  beans.  Place 
in  salad  bowl  and  garnish.  Eggs  to  be  used  in  salads  are  much 
nicer  if  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  boiled  twenty  minutes  and 
allowed  to  cool  in  the  same  water. — Sister  Grace  Holsinger  Butter- 
baugh,  Elgin,  III. 

Beet  Salad. — Boil  6  medium-sized  beets  till  quite  tender, 
peel  and  chop  fine.  Put  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  brown  nicely.  Beat  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  with  y  cup  of  vinegar  and  %  cup  of  water. 
Add  this  to  the  browned  butter.  When  boiling,  add  to  the  chopped 
beets.  If  the  vinegar  is  not  very  sour,  do  not  use  so  much  water. — 
Sister  C.  S.  Colony,  York,  N.  Dak. 

Red  Beet  Salad. — Wash  and  cook  3  or  4  red  beets  tender, 
pierce  with  a  fork ;  peel  and  hash  not  too  fine ;  have  some  nice  ham 
gravy  in  a  hot  skillet,  turn  the  hashed  beets  into  it  and  fry  slightly, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Have  a  dressing  ready  made  of  cup  of 
cream,  1  egg,  with  good  sour  vinegar  enough  to  suit  the  taste,  add 
salt  and  pepper;  pour  over  the  beets,  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
briskly;  turn  out  in  a  dish  at  once. — Sister  Sarah  Minick,  Lyons, 
Kans. 


170 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


Cabbage  Salad. — Take  1  large  red  pepper,  12  ears  of  sweet 
corn,  1  head  of  cabbage,  3  onions,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mus- 
tard, 2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to 
season.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  corn  is  tender.  Be  sure 
not  to  have  corn  too  old.  This  makes  three  quarts.  Can  while  hot. 
This  is  excellent. — Sister  Cora  H.  Root,  Sabetha,  Kans. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Take  a  good-sized  head  of  cabbage  cut  in 
slaw  and  three  medium-sized  onions  cut  fine;  mix  together.  Then 
mix  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  stir  into  y2  CUP  of 
vinegar  previously  brought  to  boiling  point.  (If  vinegar  is  too 
strong  weaken  with  a  little  water.)  Stir  in  also  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Let  boil  up,  then  cool  and 
pour  over  cabbage  and  onions.  It  is  very  fine. — Sister  Jennie  Shee- 
ler,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Take  4  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  small  cup 
of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard,  y>  teaspoonful  of 
celery  seeds,  a  lump  of  butter.  Salt  to  taste,  stir  briskly  until  thor- 
oughly cooked.  When  cool,  stir  together  with  1  small  head  of  cab- 
bage, 2  cucumber  pickles,  2  apples,  and  1  stalk  of  celery,  all  chopped 
fine. — Sister  Lida  A.  Duncan,  Denbigh,  N.  Dak. 

Cabbage  Slaw. — Chop  fine  1  medium-sized  head  of  cab- 
bage, and  salt.  Put  into  a  hot  skillet  1  cup  of  good  vinegar,  and  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Break  1  egg  into  a  dish,  then 
pour  in  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  this  well,  then  pour  it  into  the  hot 
vinegar.  Stir  until  all  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add  your 
chopped  cabbage  and  some  black  pepper.  Stir  until  all  comes  to  a 
boil  again.  This  is  excellent  either  cold  or  hot. — Sister  Effte  E. 
Miller,  Jonesboro,  Term, 

Cold  Slaw. — To  y2  gallon  of  cabbage  cut  fine  add  salt,  pep- 
per, y2  cup  of  vinegar  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  dissolved  in 
the  vinegar;  mix  well.  A  few  bleached  celery  leaves  cut  fine  and 
added,  give  a  good  flavor,  if  desired. — Sister  Martha  Ross,  Sidney, 
Ind. 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


171 


Celery  Salad. — Take  3  bunches  of  celery,  cut  into  bits 
inch  long,  boil  in  water  until  tender,  drain,  and  dress  with  y2  cup  of 
sour  cream,  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut; season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Sister  Annie  Mineely,  Johns- 
town, Pa. 

Chicken  Salad. — Boil  the  chicken  tender,  cut  the  meat  up 
into  small  pieces,  or  put  it  through  a  food  grinder.  Take  one-half 
as  much  celery  as  chicken,  2  cups  of  hickory  or  walnut  kernels  and 
4  hard  boiled  eggs.  Then  make  the  following  dressing:  Take  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  mustard,  4  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  2  cups  of  sweet  cream  and  1  cup  of  vinegar  (hot). 
Boil  all  together,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  chicken,  Celery,  nuts, 
and  eggs,  mixing  thoroughly.  Set  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to 
serve. — Sister  Bertha  L.  Yoder,  Belief ontaine,  Ohio. 

Chicken  Salad. — Boil  the  fowls  tender,  remove  all  fat,  gristle 
and  skin,  mince  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  but  do  not  hash  it.  To  1 
chicken  put  twice  its  weight  in  celery,  cut  in  pieces  }i  inch  in  length, 
mix  thoroughly  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  when  ready  for  the  table  pour  this  dressing 
over  the  chicken  and  celery,  tossing  and  mixing  thoroughly.  Set  in 
a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve.  Garnish  with  celery  tips,  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  cut  fine,  and  a  little  green  parsley. — Sister  Rose  E. 
Smith,  Ditnlap,  Kans. 

Chicken  Salad. — Boil  1  chicken  until  tender,  chop  moderate- 
ly fine,  add  the  chopped  whites  of  12  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  equal 
quantities  of  chopped  celery  and  cabbage ;  mix  all  together.  Make 
a  dressing  as  follows  and  pour  over  the  mixture:  Mash  the  yolks 
of  the  12  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  ^2  cup  of  good  cider  vinegar;  mix  all  thoroughly.  If 
celery  cannot  be  obtained,  cucumbers  and  celery  seed  may  be  used. 
— Sister  Mattie  A.  Lear,  Hudson,  III. 


172 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


Chicken  Salad. — Boil  the  chicken  until  it  is  tender  and  chop 
it  in  small  pieces,  chop  also  the  whites  of  12  hard-boiled  eggs ;  add 
chopped  celery  and  cabbage  in  equal  quantities.  Pound  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  fine  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  of  mustard,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  last  add  a 
teacupful  of  cider  vinegar;  mix  thoroughly. — Sister  Lizzie  Harnish 
Mt.  Carroll,  III. 

Chicken  Salad. — Take  3  boiled  chickens  chopped  fine,  10 
eggs  boiled  hard,  the  whites  chopped  and  added  to  the  chicken. 
Mash  the  yolks  and  moisten  with  6  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  olive  oil,  to  which  add  1  tablespoonful  each  of  mustard,  pepper, 
salt,  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  last  add  6  bunches  of 
celery  chopped  fine,  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  moisten  the  whole. — 
Sister  Lona  Cripe,  Battle  Creek,  Iowa. 

Corn  Salad. — Take  1  can  of  corn,  1  pound  of  ground  cab- 
bage, Y?  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  and  y>  cup  of  vinegar.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Ella  B.  Price,  Lanark,  III. 

Dandelion  Salad. — After  dandelion  is  cleaned,  cut  it  in 
shreds,  wash  it,  drain,  and  boil  about  ten  minutes.  This  removes 
the  bitterness.  Drain  again.  For  the  dressing:  Add  salt  to  an 
egg,  beat,  add  pepper,  mustard,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Thick- 
en y2  cup  of  milk  with  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  pour  into  the  egg,  add 
vinegar  till  sour  enough,  then  set  on  the  stove  and  stir  till  it  boils. 
Mix  with  the  dandelion  and  serve.  Prepared  in  this  way  it  can  be 
used  late  in  the  season. — Sister  Adaline  H.  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

Egg  Salad. — Chop  6  hard-boiled  eggs  and  add  to  1  cup  of 
chopped  almonds  or  English  walnuts.    Mix  with  salad  dressing. — 

Sister  Stella  A.  P  arret,  Lordsburg,  Cat. 

Fruit  Salad. —  (For  fourteen  people).  Take  the  yolks  of  -4 
eggs  and  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  each  yolk.  Stir  this  together 
in  a  double  boiler  and  add  y  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.    When  cold  add  grated  rind  and  juice 


SALADS   AND  SAUCES 


173 


of  1  lemon  and  Yi  cup  of  cream.  Then  add  ]/2  dozen  oranges,  cut 
up  2  apples  cut  in  dice,  y2  pound  malaga  grapes  cut  in  half  and 
seeded.  4  bananas,  and  )/2  pound  English  walnuts  blanched.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. — Sister  Myrtle  Branson,  Nappanee,  Ind. 

Fruit  Salad. — Take  4  oranges,  4  bananas,  and  ]/2  pound  of 
English  walnuts.  Peel  the  oranges  and  bananas  and  crack  the  nuts. 
Slice  the  fruit  and  put  in  a  dish  in  layers  with  nut  meats  sprinkled 
over  it.  Take  a  ten-cent  package  of  Advo  Jell  (or  any  kind  of  jell 
preparation)  and  dissolve  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Pour  this 
over  the  fruit  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Then  serve. — Sister  Martha 
Priebe,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Fruit  Salad. — Take  1  package  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  pint 
of  cold  water  for  y2  hour,  then  pour  1  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it, 
add  1  can  of  pineapple,  6  oranges  in  small  pieces,  6  bananas  in  thin 
slices.  ;3  cup  of  grated  cocoanut.  Stir  all  together  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  to  harden  ;  or  if  it  is  warm,  put  on  ice  and  stir  occasion- 
ally until  it  begins  to  set,  so  that  the  fruit  will  be  all  through  the 
gelatine. — Sister  Sue  Sisler,  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Fruit  Salad. — Soak  l/2  box  of  good  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  cold 
water  for  1  hour,  and  prepare  the  fruit  as  follows  :  2  oranges  and 
2  bananas,  cut  fine,  1  can  of  pineapple,  the  sliced  pineapple  pre- 
ferred, juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  and  iy2  cups  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Mix  fruit  and  sugar  together.  Add  \y2  cups  of  boil- 
ing water  to  gelatine.  Pour  over  fruit  and  mix  well.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  until  it  hardens.  If  allowed  to  stand  over  night  the  most  sat- 
isfactory results  will  be  obtained. — Sister  Delia  Kessler,  Red  Cloud, 
Nebr. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Make  a  dressing  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar  to  taste,  and  enough  water  so  as  not 
to  be  too  thick.  Boil,  add  the  lettuce,  stir  well  until  lettuce  is  wilted. 
Slice  1  hard-boiled  egg  and  stir  into  the  lettuce.  Then  put  into 
dish  and  slice  1  hard-boiled  egg  over  the  top.  Serve  warm. — Sister 
Ettie  Holler,  Hagerstoien,  Ind. 


174 


SALADS   AND  SAUCES 


Lettuce  Salad.  (With  Cold  Dressing). — Over  a  good-sized 
dish  of  lettuce  washed  and  well  drained  sprinkle  a  good  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  cooking  spoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Melt  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  pour  it  over  the  lettuce  and  mix  well. 
Then  add  y2  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  vinegar  enough  to  give  it  a 
good  taste. — Sister  Esther  Horner  Baker,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Take  y2  pint  of  sour  cream,  6  tablespoon- 

fuls  of  vinegar,  1  egg  well  beaten ;  put  on  the  stove  and  let  come  to 
a  boil ;  then  make  a  thin  batter  of  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  water, 
add  this  to  the  cream;  when  this  boils,  remove  from  the  fire,  add 
enough  sugar  to  suit  the  taste  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  let  this  dressing 
partly  cool,  then  pour  it  over  the  lettuce.  Slice  a  hard-boiled  egg 
over  the  top,  and  serve. — Sister  Anna  M.  Lichty,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Onion  Salad. — Peel  and  slice  6  good-sized  onions  and  fry 
to  a  nice  light  brown  in  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard,  then  beat  1 
egg  well  and  add  y  pint  of  rich  milk ;  stir  and  pour  over  the  onions  ; 
let  boil  up,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  and  serve  hot. — Sister  Hannah  M.  Neher,  Hollyn'ood,  Ala. 

Onion  Salad— Take  six  or  eight  good-sized  onions,  peel, 
slice  thin  and  cook  tender  in  salt  water  to  season.  Then  put  over 
them  a  dressing  of  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  teacupful  of  cream,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar  and  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Florence 
Hays  Kline,  Broadzcay,  Va. 

Onion  Salad. — Take  6  large  onions  chopped  fine  (do  not 
use  fruit  chopper,  as  it  bruises  them  too  much)  ;  let  stand  in  cold 
water  ten  minutes  and  drain  oft.  Then  take  y  of  a  cup  of  vinegar, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  cinnamon  and 
allspice.  Mix  and  pour  over  the  onions.  Let  stand  thirty  minutes 
before  serving.  Stir  them  several  times,  so  that  the  spices  will  be 
evenly  distributed. — Sister  W.  J.  Haynes,  Moore-field,  Nebr. 

Oyster  Salad. — Take  1  can  of  cove  oysters,  3  hard-boiled 
eggs,  3  or  4  stalks  of  celery,  same  quantity  of  broken  crackers  as 
oysters,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  oysters, 
and  celery  separately,  season  and  toss  together  lightly  with  a  fork. 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


175 


Mash  yolks  very  fine  with  the  butter,  add  2/z  pint  of  vinegar,  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  prepared  mustard.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  constant- 
ly, and  pour  over  the  mixture. — Sister  Sara  Reese  Eby,  West  Elk- 
ton,  Ohio. 

Peanut  and  Cabbage  Salad. — Take  1  quart  of  chopped  cab- 
bage, y  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  cup  of  ground  peanuts.  Dressing : 
Two  eggs  beaten,  y  cup  of  vinegar  and  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
Cook  and  when  cold  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  y  cup 
of  sugar. — Sister  Phoebe  Foft,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Pimento  Salad. — Take  y2  package  of  gelatine,  1  cup  of 
boiling  water,  1  cup  of  chopped  cabbage  or  celery,  %  can  of  pimen- 
toes  (chopped),  y  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Mix  gelatine  and  water  then  salt,  vinegar  and  sugar.  When 
solid,  add  pimentoes  and  cabbage  or  celery.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. — Sister  Mary  Christner,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  6  boiled  potatoes,  butter  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  1  good-sized  onion  chipped  up  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to 
suit  taste.  Add  4  boiled  eggs,  2  sliced  in  the  salad  and  2  on  top. 
Garnish  with  celery,  parsley,  or  lettuce,  also  add  vinegar  to  suit  the 
taste. — Sister  Carrie  L.  Arnold,  North  Manchester,  Ind. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  6  large  boiled  potatoes,  3  good-sized 
onions,  4  hard-boiled  eggs.  Chop  fine,  with  the  exception  of  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  which  save  for  the  dressing.  Dressing:  A  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melt  in  a  frying  pan,  then  add  1  tea- 
spoonful of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  pul- 
verized, y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  y$  cup  of  strong  vinegar,  salt  to 
taste.  Boil  up  as  for  gravy  and  pour  over  salad,  with  1  teaspoonful 
of  prepared  mustard.  When  cool  it  is  ready  to  serve. — Sister  La- 
vina  Brower,  North  Manchester,  Ind. 

Potato  Salad. — Slice  boiled  potatoes  and  hard-boiled  eggs 
alternately  in  a  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  a  dressing 
with  1  cup  of  good  sour  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  vinegar 
to  suit  the  taste ;  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  eggs,  and  serve  cold. — 
Sister  Hannah  Kreitzer,  Sabetha,  Kans. 


176 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


Potato  Salad. — Take  7  eggs,  boil  hard  and  cut  up  into 
squares,  boil  7  potatoes  size  of  eggs,  let  cool,  then  cut  in  squares,  1 
onion  cut  fine.  Mix  all  together,  salt,  make  a  dressing  of  1  cup  of 
sour  cream,  1  egg,  y2  cup  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. — Sister  Jinia  Stark,  Centerview,  Mo. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  12  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  3  or  4 
eggs,  when  cool  cut  into  dice,  then  make  the  following  dressing: 
Take  1  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  vinegar  and  water ;  boil 
all  together ;  let  cool,  then  mix  with  the  potatoes  and  eggs. — Sister 
Minnie  M.  Uhl,  Brooklyn,  Ioiva. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  1  medium-sized  dish  of  left-over 
mashed  potatoes,  7  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  medium-sized  onion,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  sugar;  chop  the  onion  and  5  eggs  fine,  add  the 
sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Slice  the  2  remaining  eggs 
on  top  of  salad. — Sister  Anna  Sniteman,  Keota,  Iowa. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  8  large  boiled  potatoes,  3  good-sized 
onions,  3  hard-boiled  eggs ;  chop  all  together.  Dressing :  Take  1 
egg,  3  spoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  1  spoonful  of  sugar,  1  spoonful  of 
salt ;  beat  this  together,  add  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Myra 
Troyer,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  1  quart  of  potatoes  chopped  fine,  put 
in  stew  pan  with  enough  water  to  cover,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
let  boil  until  tender,  then  put  in  3/4  teacupful  of  good  vinegar,  y2 
cup  of  sour  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  meat  gravy.  Boil 
2  or  more  eggs  hard  and  slice  over  when  taken  up. — Sister  C.  N. 
Huff,  Amsterdam,  Va. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  eggs  hard,  mash  or  grate  the  yolks  and 
cut  the  whites  fine ;  take  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  blocks  not  too  fine ; 
put  in  a  dish  first  a  layer  of  potatoes  then  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs 
and  pour  over  the  following  dressing :   Put  butter  into  a  pan,  brown 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


177 


flour  in  it,  pour  in  sweet  milk,  boil  until  it  thickens,  put  in  vinegar 
to  season,  and  if  liked  cut  a  few  onions  quite  fine  and  mix  with  the 
dressing. — Sister  Eliza  Miller,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  10  medium-sized  potatoes  and  cook 
them  with  the  peeling  on.  Be  careful  not  to  let  them  cook  too  soft ; 
peel  and  cut  in  small  squares ;  take  1  or  2  medium-sized  onions,  1 
stalk  of  celery,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  and  mix  with  the  potatoes ; 
then  season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  and  mustard  seeds.  Dressing: 
Take  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoonful  of  yellow  mustard, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  %  cup  of  vinegar  diluted  with  water  (1  egg  can 
be  used  if  liked)  ;  boil  together  until  it  thickens,  pour  over  the  pota- 
toes, and  serve  cold. — Sister  Ora  Beachley,  Hagerstozvn,  Md. 

Potato  Salad. — Pare  and  boil  in  salt  water  as  many  potatoes 
as  desired,  when  done,  take  out,  let  cool,  then  slice  in  a  dish  to  serve 
from,  and  slice  3  hard-boiled  eggs  over  the  potatoes.  Brown  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  ^2  tablespoonful  of  flour;  beat  1  egg 
with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  pour  this  to  the  flour  and  butter, 
add  1  cup  of  water  and  stir  until  it  thickens ;  pour  over  the  potatoes 
and  serve  cold. — Sister  Pinkie  E.  Vetter,  Pyrmont,  Ind. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  boil  tender, 
and  as  many  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  onion,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut,  chop  together,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  celery 
seed  (mustard  seed  will  do),  then  add  some  vinegar.  Mix  together, 
then  slice  2  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top. — Sister  Hannah  F.  Dunning, 
Denbigh,  N.  Dak. 

Potato  Salad. — Cut  in  fine  pieces  6  cold  boiled  potatoes,  2 
onions,  and  3  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  make  a  mustard  dressing  for  same  as 
follows :  The  yolks  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  mus- 
tard, 3  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  1 
dessertspoonful  of  flour,  1  teacupful  of  very  sour  vinegar.  Let 
boil,  stirring  it  until  it  is  thick. — Sister  Sue  Sisler,  Dallas  Center, 
Iowa. 


178 


SALADS  AXD  SAUCES 


Potato  Salad. — Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  a  dish,  add  a 
couple  of  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped.  Mayonnaise  dressing  is  best, 
but  a  dressing  may  be  made  cold  which  is  made  much  quicker. 
Take  cream,  sugar,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  amount  of 
mustard.  Use  your  judgment  as  to  amount  of  each.  Onions,  if 
liked,  are  a  nice  addition :  celery,  too.  is  good  in  it. — Sister  Eliza 
J.  Englar,  New  Windsor,  Md. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  sufficient  to  make 
about  1  quart  when  chopped  fine :  slice  1  small  onion  with  the  pota- 
toes, enough  to  flavor.  Make  a  dressing  of  1  large  cup  of  sour 
cream,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  and  nearly  y2  cup  of  vinegar :  pour  over 
the  potatoes  and  set  over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  take 
off  and  mix  in  4  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  same  as  potatoes ; 
put  in  a  salad  dish  and  garnish  the  top  with  slices  of  hard-boiled 
eggs :  sprinkle  with  pepper. — Sister  Lillie  Calvert,  Red  field,  Kans. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  5  or  6  good-sized  potatoes,  mash,  add  1 
onion  chopped  fine.  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  mix  well  together. 
Dressing:  Take  1  egg.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper,  J/2  cup  of  vine- 
gar ;  beat  the  egg  and  cream  together,  then  add  the  rest :  put  on  the 
stove,  let  come  to  a  boil :  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  mix  well,  then 
slice  1  egg  and  lay  on  top. — Sister  Theodosia  Harris,  Ladoga,  Ind. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  several  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chop,  then 
mince  3  good-sized  onions :  slice  2  hard-boiled  eggs ;  mix  all  to- 
gether, season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  seed,  then  add  vinegar 
to  suit  the  taste.  Or  mix  the  potatoes  and  onions,  then  make  a 
dressing  of  2/z  cup  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut :  beat  2  eggs  lightly,  then  turn  into  the  vinegar,  and  stir  while 
pouring.  Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  and  then  pour  it  over 
the  potatoes. — Sister  Mary  Red  dick,  Sheridan,  Mo. 

Potato  Salad. — Take  12  good-sized  potatoes  boiled  and  salt- 
ed. 4  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  small  onions.  1  bunch  of  celery,  chop  all 
together.  Then  take  y2  cup  of  sour  cream,  y2  cup  of  vinegar,  2 
eggs,  and  y2  cup  of  sugar.    Beat  together,  then  let  come  to  a  boil; 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


179 


pottr  over  the  potatoes,  stir  well  and  serve  cold. — Sister  Elizabeth 
Eckerle,  Flora,  Ind. 

Salmon  Salad. — Cut  fine  a  head  of  cabbage  that  is  tender 
and  crisp.  To  this  add  y2  that  amount  of  salmon,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  and  pour  over  it  a  dressing  made  as 
follows:  One  cup  of  thick  cream  (sweet  or  sour),  r/2  cup  of  vine- 
gar, and  sugar  to  taste  ;  beat  well  and  pour  over  the  above. — Sister 
Delia  Kessler,  Red  Cloud,  N ebr. 

Salmon  Salad. — Remove  the  bones  from  1  can  of  salmon ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  2  eggs  20  minutes  so  that  the 
yolks  will  be  dry,  plunge  them  into  cold  water  immediately  after 
taking  them  from  the  boiling  water  to  prevent  the  whites  turning 
blue.  Cut  the  whites  into  small  pieces  and  either  mix  with  the 
salmon  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  the  top.  Mash  the  yolks  with  a  lump 
of  butter,  size  of  1  yolk,  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  a  little  mustard 
if  liked ;  then  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  the  dressing  is  like 
cream.  If  the  butter  and  vinegar  separate,  warm  the  dressing  be- 
fore mixing  with  the  salmon. — Sister  R.  E.  Arnold,  Elgin,  III. 

Salmon  Salad. — Take  1  can  of  salmon,  V/2  dozen  crackers 
broken  into  small  bits,  and  1  good-sized  cucumber  pickle  chopped 
into  small  pieces.  Mix  all  well  together.  Dressing:  Three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  floui,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1 
cup  of  sour  cream.  1  cup  of  vinegar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put 
in  a  sauce  pan  and  boil  till  thick.  When  cool,  stir  well  through  the 
salad  and  serve. — Sister  Fannie  Hollar,  Hardin,  Mo. 

Sweetbread  Salad. — Dash  the  sweetbreads  into  boiling  salt- 
ed water,  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  lay  in  ice  water  to  whiten 
them.  When  cold  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water :  Let 
cool  then  break  into  bits,  add  as  much  celery  as  sweetbreads,  a  few 
English  walnuts  and  olives  cut  fine.  Pour  on  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  in  tomato  cups. — Sister  Edna  Crowe,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 


180 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


Tomato  Salad. — Select  as  many  solid  tomatoes  as  you  wish 
to  serve  people.  Scald,  peel,  remove  the  core  and  seeds ;  fill  the  to- 
matoes with  finely-chopped  celery  and  cabbage,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper;  dress  the  whole  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. — Sister  Cora  A.  Keim,  Elklick,  Pa. 

Continent  Mustard  (French). — Beat  2  eggs,  add  1  cup  of 
thick  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  butter  and  sugar,  and 
y2  cup  of  ground  mustard.  Set  the  dish  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  thick,  then  add  slowly  one  cup  of  strong  vinegar. — Sister 
Lydia  Deal,  Brumbaugh,  N.  Dak. 

Salad  Dressing. — Take  4  eggs  beaten  separately,  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  mus- 
tard, y2  cup  of  vinegar,  lump  of  butter ;  put  all  into  beaten  yolks, 
add  whites  last.  Cook  until  thick  and  smooth,  stirring  all  the  time. 
If  too  thick,  add  cream  or  vinegar.  If  there  are  yolks  left  from  a 
cake,  they  can  be  used  alone  by  adding  cream  to  the  mixture  and 
boiling  with  it.  If  mustard  is  not  liked,  it  can  be  omitted.  This 
makes  a  good  dressing  for  either  potatoes  or  cabbage. — Sister  Katie 
R.  Trostle,  Stratford,  III. 

Salad  Dressing  (Will  Keep  for  Months). — To  the  beaten 
yolks  of  6  eggs,  add  1  teaspoonful  each  of  pepper,  salt  and  mustard, 
and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  till  very  light  and  add  y2  cup  of  butter. 
Pour  gradually  into  the  above  mixture  1  pint  of  boiling  vinegar. 
Add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  if  desired.  Let  cool  before  using. — Sister 
Katie  E.  Keller,  Enterprise,  Mont. 

Salad  Dressing. — Take  of  a  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoon- 
iful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  1  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  the  mustard, 
flour,  butter  and  yolk  of  the  egg  together.  Then  add  the  vinegar 
and  water.  Boil  until  it  is  a  smooth  dressing.  Stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  white  lightly,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  salad. — Sister 
Esther  Horner  Baker,  Baltic,  Ohio. 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


181 


Salad  Dressings — Take  the  yolks  of  4  raw  eggs,  4  mustard 
spoonfuls  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper;  mix  all  together  and 
stir  while  heating  in  a  double  boiler;  do  not  let  it  boil. — Sister 
Mary  S.  Geiger,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Salad  Dressing. — Break  1  egg  into  a  glass ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard. Mix  until  smooth;  then  fill  up  the  glass  with  sweet  cream 
(milk  will  do).  Let  come  to  a  boil  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of 
vinegar;  pour  in  the  above  ingredients  and  let  all  come  to  the  boil. 
Let  it  cool  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  may  be  used  on  lettuce, 
cold  slaw,  sliced  tomatoes,  potato  salad  or  any  vegetable  that  can 
be  eaten  with  a  salad  dressing. — Sister  Grace  C.  Beam,  Elgin,  III. 

Salad  Dressing. — Take  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  not  quite  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  butter  size  of  a  shellbark,  1  egg,  milk,  y2 
teaspoonful  mustard  mixed  with  the  vinegar,  boil,  and  let  cool  if 
you  do  not  wish  the  salad  wilted. — Sister  I.  T.  Myers,  Philadelphia, 
Pa, 

Dressing  for  Chicken  Salad. — Beat  together  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  4  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  hot  water;  boil,  stirring  until 
thick,  then  pour  over  prepared  chicken. — Sister  Mary  Rihard,  Al- 
toona,  Iowa. 

Mustard  Dressing. — Take  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  iy2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  egg  well  beaten,  ^4  cup  of 
vinegar  not  too  sour ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the  time ;  then  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hulled  walnut;  beat  well,  then  thin  with  sweet  cream. — Sister 
Mary  Taylor,  Spring  City,  Pa. 


1S2  SALADS  AND  SAUCES 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Take  1  quart  of  cranberries,  wash,  and 
pour  over  them  1  pint  of  water,  put  in  a  double  boiler  or  granite 
kettle;  boil  until  the  berries  break,  then  press  through  a  colander. 
Now  put  back  in  the  kettle  with  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  boil 
until  it  forms  a  jelly,  then  pour  in  molds  or  dishes  and  set  away 
in  the  cold  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Susan  M.  Gib- 
ble,  Manheim,  Pa. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Take  1  quart  of  cranberries  and  1  pint  of 
water ;  simmer  slowly  until  berries  burst ;  strain  through  a  colander, 
then  measure  liquid ;  to  every  pint  of  strained  juice  add  1  pound  of 
sugar;  cook  5  minutes  and  turn  into  wet  moulds. — Sister  Mary 
Taylor,  Spring  City,  Pa. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Pick  and  wash  1  quart  of  cranberries ; 
put  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  T/2  pint  of  water ;  add  a  pint  of 
sugar  on  top  of  berries ;  set  on  the  fire  and  stew  about  Yz  hour, 
stirring  frequently.  They  will  need  no  straining  and  will  preserve 
their  rich  color  cooked  in  this  way. — Sister  Nannie  H.  Strayer, 
Johnstown.  Pa. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Put  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  2  of  water 
in  a  kettle,  and  when  boiling  add  1  quart  of  cranberries,  and  3 
apples.  Boil  until  tender.  This  is  the  best  recipe  for  cooking  cran- 
berries I  have  found. — Sister  W.  J.  Szvigart,  Huntingdon,  Pa. 

Dainty  Rhubarb  Sauce. — Prepare  a  quart  of  rhubarb  sauce. 
Soak  y2  box  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  till  it  all  dissolves, 
then  add  the  red  coloring  that  comes  in  each  box  of  gelatine,  and 
stir  it  in  the  sauce.  Sweeten  the  whole  to  taste.  Set  away  several 
hours.  When  readv  for  use,  slice  oranges  on  top. — Sister  Sarah 
JVitmore  Harnly,  McPherson,  Kans, 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


186  SALADS  AND  SAUCES 


^fiorte&kc  „  , 


It  may  be  that  puddings  and  the  like  have  come  into  their 
present  disfavor  with  hygienists  not  so  much  because  they  are  bad 
in  themselves,  but  because  they  have  often  been  badly  made  and 
badly  handled.  Too  often  a  pudding  is  offered  toward  the  end  of 
a  meal  to  tempt  an  appetite  that  has  already  satisfied  the  needs  of 
the  body.  Sometimes,  too,  a  pudding  is  offered  that  naturally  wars 
with  the  dishes  that  have  preceded  it  and  consequently  the  eater 
suffers.  The  cook  should  watch  this  point.  Also  be  careful  not  to 
have  the  first  part  of  the  meal  so  ample  that  the  dessert  cannot  be 
considered  a  necessary  part.  Be  careful,  too,  to  have  meals  well 
balanced,  serving  the  lighter  desserts  at  meals  where  the  preceding 
dishes  are  somewhat  heavy  and  vice  versa.  The  art  of  using  flavor- 
ings in  custards,  etc.,  is  one  worthy  of  cultivation.  Nothing  so 
quickly  marks  the  amateur  or  careless  cook  as  ".loud  "  or  unsuit- 
able flavorings.  For  boiling  a  pudding  one  should  have  a  bag  made 
of  firm  white  goods  with  felled  seams  and  rounded  corners.  When 
preparing  to  use  turn  the  bag  with  seams  out,  dip  into  hot  water, 
squeeze  out  lightly  and  rub  the  inside  plentifully  with  flour.  When 
tying  the  bag  be  careful  to  allow  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Place  a 
saucer  upside  down  in  the  kettle  to  prevent  the  pudding  sticking,  lay 
in  the  pudding  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cover  the  kettle 
and  keep  the  water  boiling  constantly,  adding  boiling  water  from 
the  teakettle  to  keep  the  pudding  covered.  When  done  dip  the  bag 
hastily  into  cold  water,  turn  out  the  pudding  and  serve  immediately. 
Puddings  may  also  be  boiled  in  a  tin  mold  or  earthen  dish.  These 
should  be  well  greased  and  after  the  pudding  is  in,  a  well-floured 
cloth  should  be  tied  over  the  top  if  the  receptacle  has  no  well-fitted 


187 


188  SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 

cover.  Steamed  or  baked  puddings  are  to  be  preferred  to  boiled 
ones,  as  they  are  lighter  and  more  digestible.  Boiled  or  steamed 
puddings  take  about  twice  as  long  to  cook  as  baked  ones. 

Shortcake. — Take  1  pint  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  sifted  together,  a  little  salt,  soften  with  rich  sweet 
cream  to  the  consistency  of  biscuit  dough ;  roll  out  and  fit  in  a  pie 
pan ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  baked,  split  in  two  with  a  sharp 
knife  and  spread  the  inside  with  butter,  then  put  in  fruit  and  lay 
together.  Serve  warm  with  cream  over  it. — Sister  Sadie  S.  Young, 
Beatrice,  Nebr. 

Prune  Shortcake. — Take  the  pits  out  of  stewed  prunes,  mash 
smooth,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  allspice.  Bake  three  sheets  of  large 
shortcake ;  when  cool,  spread  the  prunes  between  the  sheets,  and  on 
top  dot  with  frosting.  Do  not  spread  the  prunes  on  till  ready  to 
serve. — Sister  Sadie  Hays,  Le  Grand,  Cat. 

Strawberry  Cake. — Work  y2  cup  of  butter  and  2  of  sugar 
to  a  cream.  Add  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour, 
and  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  flat  pans, 
thicker  than  for  jelly  cake.  Mash  strawberries  and  sweeten  them. 
Spread  them  thickly  between  the  layers.  Sift  sugar  over  the  top, 
and  serve  with  or  without  cream. — Sister  Jennie  Stonffer,  Benevola, 
Md. 

Strawberry  Roll. — Take  a  full  quart  of  strawberries,  chop 
or  mash  as  for  shortcake,  and  add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Make  a 
dough  of  1  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  butter 
or  lard  and  sweet  milk  to  make  up  the  flour.  Divide  the  dough  into 
two  parts.  Roll  out  round,  spread  butter  on  them  and  also  the  ber- 
ries and  roll  up.  Butter  a  bread  pan,  lay  in  the  layers,  put  some 
sugar  and  a  little  butter  between,  and  pour  a  little  water  on  the 
sugar.  Then  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  is  fine  made  with 
dried  apples.  Instead  of  strawberries,  substitute  the  apples;  stew 
and  mash  as  for  pies  and  spread  the  same  as  the  berries. — Sister 
Eliza  Replogle  Ulery,  Savage,  Mont. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


189 


Strawberry  Shortcake. — Take  y$  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  Y\ 
cup  of  butter  or  lard,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  x/2  pint  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder ;  do  not  roll ;  bake  in  a  round  cake  tin. 
This  makes  enough  for  a  family  of  2  or  3. — Sister  L.  A.  Pollock, 
Batavia,  III. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — For  a  shortcake,  2  hours  before 
wanted,  crush  a  large  quart  of  berries  with  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  For  the  crust,  take  2  cups  of 
flour  and  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  together, 
add  Yz  cup  of  butter  and  mix  like  meal.  Add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
mix  as  little  as  possible  and  have  the  dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be 
handled ;  roll  and  halve  the  dough ;  put  in  a  tin  and  butter  to  pre- 
vent the  layers  from  sticking  together ;  cover  with  the  other  half 
of  the  dough  and  bake ;  lift  off  top  layer  and  put  half  the  berries 
on ;  cover  with  top  and  put  on  the  remaining  berries.  Serve  with 
cream.  Peaches  or  apricots  can  be  used  if  desired  instead  of  ber- 
ries.— Sister  Emma  S.  Andes  Zobler,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Make  a  short  pie  crust,  roll  out 
same  as  for  pies ;  make  enough  for  4  pie  plates ;  bake ;  when  done 
take  1  quart  of.  strawberries,  put  a  quart  of  water  on  them  with 
sugar  to  taste,  boil  down  to  a  syrup ;  divide  into  the  3  crusts  and  set 
one  into  the  other  when  all  is  cold. — Sister  Lucy  Magie,  Tropico, 
Col. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Take  1  quart  of  flour,  3  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  quarts  of  berries. 
Sift  flour  in  a  bowl ;  add  salt  and  baking  powder,  mix  well ;  add 
melted  butter  and  milk;  mix  thoroughly.  Have  ready  4  greased 
pie  plates,  put  dough  in  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Have  berries 
crushed  and  sugared.  When  cakes  are  done,  put  on  a  plate,  butter 
and  put  the  berries  between  the  layers;  serve  immediately. — Sister 
Alice  Garman,  Lancaster,  Pa. 


19.0 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Strawberry  Shortcake. — Sift  together  1  quart  of  flour,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  add  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft  dough,  the 
same  as  for  biscuit.  Bake  in  two  layers  on  cake  pans ;  when  done, 
with  a  sharp  knife  divide  each  layer.  Then  take  a  layer  of  cake 
and  cover  with  sweetened  berries,  and  so  on  until  you  have  your 
cake  completed.  Serve  with  sweetened  milk. — Sister  Ira  G.  Blocker, 
Union  City,  Ind. 

Ambrosia. — Take  6  oranges,  6  bananas,  peel  and  slice,  then 
put  in  a  dish  a  layer  of  oranges,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  a  layer 
of  bananas,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full. 
Serve  with  cream  or  a  sauce. — Sister  Mary  Netzley,  Batavia,  III. 

Apple  Custard. — Take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk, 
1  cup  of  apple  sauce  sweetened  to -suit  the  taste,  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  cornstarch.  Bake  with  bottom  crust  only.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  stiff,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  when  pies  are 
done,  spread  the  whites  over  the  tops  and  return  to  the  oven-  to 
brown.  This  makes  2  pies. — Sister  Jennie  S.  Brengle,  Frederick, 
Md. 

Apple  Pudding. — Take  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  stiff  as  for  cake,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  grease  a  pudding  dish  with  butter  and 
cover  the  bottom  with  apples,  pared  and  cut  in  quarters ;  pour  over 
them  the  batter  and  bake  until  done.  Serve  with  rich  milk  sweet- 
ened.— Sister  Clara  Ringer,  Oregon,  III. 

Apple  Pudding. — Take  tart  apples,  pare,  and  punch  out  the 
cores,  put  in  an  earthen  pudding  dish,  fill  the  holes  with  sugar  and 
grate  over  them  some  nutmeg ;  mix  in  y2  pint  of  water  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  cornstarch ;  pour  over  the  apples  and  bake  until  the  apples  are 
soft.    Serve  hot. — Sister  Josiah  Clapper,  Salemvillc,  Pa. 

Apple  Pudding. — Fill  a  baking  dish  half  full  of  sliced  ap- 
ples, pour  over  them  a  batter  made  of  1  tablespoonful"  of  butter,  y2 
cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour  in  which 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


191 


have  been  sifted  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Serve  with 
cream. — Sister  Annie  G.  Falls,  Dayton,  Va. 

Apple  Pudding. — Slice  pudding  dish  half  full  of  apples  and 
pour  over  them  the  following  mixture:  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  a 
little  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  or  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  nutmeg  to  taste,  1  pint  of 
flour.  Sauce :  2  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
water,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  a 
little  nutmeg;  boil  about  15  minutes,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  cream. — Sister  J.  E.  Price,  Dallas  Center,  Iozva. 

Apple  Pudding. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  6  or  8  large  apples ; 
good  cooking  apples  are  the  best.  Grease  your  pan  and  put  your 
apples  in.  Then  make  a  dough  of  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cream,  1  cup 
milk  and  2%  cups  flour,  with  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
well  sifted  into  the  flour,  and  pour  over  the  apples.  Then  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  1  hour.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  while 
warm. — Sister  Lottie  E.  Shick  Perry,  Dodge  City,  Kans. 

Apple  Pudding. — Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  half  full  of 
sliced  apples,  sweeten,  add  a  few  drops  of  water  and  pour  over 
them  a  batter  made  of  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sugar, 
y>  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  brown.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 
— Sister  Eva  Miller,  Sidney,  Ind. 

Apple  Pudding. — Fill  a  pudding  dish  V2  full  of  apples,  add  1 
pint  of  hot  water  and  set  on  the  stove.  Take  y2  cup  of  sugar  and 
butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  mix  to- 
gether and  put  in  apples.  Let  that  cook  while  you  prepare  a  dough 
by  taking  1  pint  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder ;  wet  with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Roll  out ;  put  over  apples,  then  put  in  the  oven  and  bake. — 
Sister  Lillie  M.  Blickenstaff ,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 


192 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Apple  Pudding. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  y2  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Then  take  stewed 
apples,  sweeten  them,  mix  y,  of  the  batter  in  the  apples,  and  put 
in  a  pudding  dish  and  spread  the  remainder  of  the  batter  over  the 
apples.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
cream. — Sister  Vera  Rodabaugh,  Stet,  Mo. 

Apple  Pudding. — Almost  fill  2  pie  plates  or  deep  pans  with 
sliced  apples  or  peaches  and  pour  over  them  a  custard  made  of  3 
cups  of  milk,  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
little  salt  and  2  cups  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  all  together. — Sister 
Lizzie  Shirk,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Apple  Pudding. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  y>  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  1  cup  of  milk.  Roll  y2  inch  thick  and  spread  on  this  one  cup  of 
chopped  apples,  and  y2  cup  of  butter.  Roll,  and  then  pour  over  this 
1  cup  of  sugar,  and  $4  quart  of  boiling  water.  Bake  45  minutes. — 
Sister  Lena  M.  Long,  Elgin,  III. 

Apple  Butter  Roll. — Take  1  pint  of  bread  dough,  roll  it  out 
y2  inch  thick,  spread  with  apple  butter,  roll  up,  lay  it  on  a  plate ;  let 
rise  a  little,  then  place  plate  and  roll  in  a  steamer  and  steam  until 
done.  Serve  with  milk  and  sugar. — Sister  Belle  lordan,  Melbern, 
Ohio. 

Apple  Rolls. — Take  bread  dough,  a  little  shortening,  1  egg, 
and  flour  to  stiffen.  Take  a  lump  of  dough  size  of  a  walnut,  roll 
out  flat  and  roll  stewed  apples  in  the  dough.  Let  them  rise  in  the 
bake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Eat  with  sweet  dip, 
same  as  dumplings. — Sister  Amanda  Maust,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Apple  Tapioca. — Take  1  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked,  6  apples,  1 
quart  of  water  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Bake,  and  serve  cold  with  ice 
cold  cream. — Sister  Amy  Roop  Straw,  Westminster,  Md. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  y2  cup  of  tapioca  3  hours. 
Halve,  core,  but  do  not  peel  6  red  medium  or  small  apples.  (Jona- 
than or  Winesap  preferred.)  Put  in  a  bake  dish  with  1  pint  of 
water,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.    Pour  the 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


193 


tapioca  over  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  1 
hour.  To  be  eaten  warm. — Sister  Jennie  W ampler,  Falks  Store, 
Idaho. 

Baked  Custard. — Take  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  l1/^  cups  of 
sugar,  5  eggs,  well  beaten  with  good  egg  beater,  and  nutmeg  to 
taste.  Bake  in  pudding  pan,  or  custard  cups,  which  is  better,  in 
pan  of  hot  water  in  moderate  oven  until  firm  and  light  brown.  This 
is  a  fine  change  of  diet  for  a  convalescent. — Sister  Myrtle  Blocker, 
Greenville,  Ohio. 

Berry  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter  and  as  many  berries  (raspberries,  blackberries, 
or  cherries)  as  can  be  stirred  into  the  batter.  Bake  half  an  hour 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  milk. — Sister  Emma  G.  Reitz,  Friedens, 
Pa. 

Biscuit  Pudding. — Heat  to  the  boiling  point  1  quart  of 
water,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hulled  walnut,  stir  1  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  flour  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a 
grated  nutmeg  together  with  a  pinch  of  salt ;  add  to  the  water  to 
make  it  smooth ;  cut  cold  soda  biscuits  in  two  or  three  slices,  drop 
in,  let  boil  up,  and  serve. — Sister  Jessie  J.  Thomas,  Butler,  Ind. 

Blackberry  Flummery. — To  1  pint  of  blackberries  add  1 
pint  of  water,  boil  until  tender,  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  until  it  boils,  flavor  to 
taste;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Laura  Smucker,  Timber- 
ville,  Va. 

Black  Pudding. — One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  T/2  cup  molas- 
ses, y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  3  eggs,  J/2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Steam  1  hour.  Sauce : 
1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold 
water.  Stir  all  together.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  nutmeg. 
— Sister  Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 


194 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Blanc  Mange. — Place  over  the  fire  in  a  kettle  or  sauce  pan, 
2  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  which  must  be  stirred  frequently  to  prevent 
scorching.  Into  a  bowl  beat  2  eggs,  and  add  a  small  teacupful  of 
sugar.  Into  another  bowl  place  4 .  heaping  tablespoonfuls  corn- 
starch, which  moisten  with  cold  milk  until  it  is  about  the  consistencv 
of  cream.  Add  this  to  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  and  stir  the  whole 
into  the  milk  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Continue  stirring  a  few 
minutes,  until  the  starch  is  well  cooked.  Remove  from  stove,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  extract,  lemon  or  vanilla :  pour  into  cups  which  have 
previously  been  rinsed  with  cold  water.  Serve  cold,  with  stewed 
or  canned  fruit.  Cherries  are  suitable. — Sister  Nannie  B.  Under- 
bill, Collbran,  Colo. 

Bread  Dough  Pudding. — Take  enough  bread  dough  for  a 
small  loaf ;  work  in  it  1  egg ;  lay  it  in  a  thin  cloth,  fold  over  the 
dough ;  let  rise  until  light ;  then  have  boiling  water  in  a  pot.  drop  it 
in  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream  and  any  kind 
of  fruit  desired. — Sister  J.  M.  Kagey,  Dayton,  V a. 

Bread  Pudding. — Take  2  quarts  of  sweet  milk.  1  quart  of 
bread  crumbs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  5  eggs.  Put  in  the  oven 
and  let  brown  on  top ;  then  take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beat  to  a  froth, 
add  jelly  and  spread  over  top  of  pudding;  let  get  brown.  Serve 
with  sweet  cream. — Sister  Elsie  Huff,  Ft.  Definace,  Va. 

Bread  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  1 
quart  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  baked, 
remove  from  oven ;  cover  with  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg 
mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar :  put  back  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Serve  warm  with  cream. — Sister  Caleb  Long,  Boonsboro. 
Md. 

Bread  Pudding. — Take  bread  broken  fine  and  covered  with 
milk ;  set  it  on  the  stove,  where  it  is  not  too  hot.  to  soften :  remove 
and  stir  in  1  beaten  egg,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  raisins,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  Yz  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon ;  bake  1 
hour.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister  Lizzie  Culp,  Leeton, 


SHORTCAKES.    CUSTARDS   AXD  PUDDIXGS 


195 


A  Hasty  Bread  Pudding. — Take  5  or  6  slices  of  light  bread  ; 
lay  in  a  deep  pan  :  take  4  eggs,  1  teacupful  of  sugar ;  beat  well  to- 
gether, then  add  1  quart  of  sweet  milk ;  pour  over  the  bread ;  flavor 
with  any  flavoring  to  suit  taste — a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon 
sprinkled  over  the  top  is  good.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Rachel 
E.  Gillett,  Camp  Verde,  Ariz. — Butter  both  sides  of  the  slices  of 
bread.  A  few  well-washed  currants  may  be  sprinkled  between  the 
slices  of  bread,  if  desired. — Sister  Susie  Smith ,  Conzvay  Springs, 
Kans. 

Steamed  Bread  Pudding. — Take  1  quart  of  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  sweet  milk  :  when- soft  mash  with  a  spoon  ;  add  a  little 
salt.  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  3  eggs  beaten  well;  mix  and  steam 
\y2  hours.  Slice  and  serve  with  butter  and  sugar. — Sister  Cathar- 
ine Yundt,  Pomona,  Cat. 

Brown  Betty. — Roil  crackers  real  tine,  put  a  layer  in  a  but- 
tered pan.  then  a  layer  of  apple  sauce  and  a  little  butter,  alternately 
a  layer  of  crackers,  then  apple  sauce  and  butter :  have  the  last  a 
thick  layer  of  cracker  crumbs ;  pour  on  enough  to  bake  and  put  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  till  brown.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — 
Sister  Louisa  Plum,  Maryland,  III. 

Brcwn  Betty. — Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  into  a  pudding 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  apples  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  them, 
and  a  little  butter.  Continue  until  your  dish  is  full.  Then  add  a 
little  water  and  bake.  To  be  eaten  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister 
John  H.  Rinehart,  Union,  Ohio. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Take  2  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  gelatine ;  beat 
the  milk,  sugar  and  yolks  together,  then  add  the  gelatine  dissolved 
in  cold  water :  let  boil  until  creamy,  using  the  double  boiler :  let  cool 
until  it  begins  to  get  stiff,  then  add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream.  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  J/2  cup  of  chopped  and  blanched  alm- 
onds ;  poiir  in  molds  lined  with  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers  and 
set  on  ice  until  stiff. — Sister  Josie  Lohmiller,  Pueblo,  Colo. 


196 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Cherry  Cobbler. — Take  1  quart  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  lard 
the  size  of  an  egg,  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  mix  into  a 
stiff  batter ;  spread  a  layer  of  the  batter  in  a  pan,  then  a  layer  of 
fruit ;  sprinkle  fruit  with  sugar  and  ■  lay  over  it  bits  of  butter,  then 
another  layer  of  dough,  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is  almost  full ;  then 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  while  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister 
Elizabeth  Eckerle,  Flora,  hid. 

Cherry  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  thick  milk,  1  egg,  Yi  teaspoon- 
ful  baking  soda,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  large  cup  seeded  sour  cherries 
(fresh  are  best,  but  the  canned  will  do),  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff 
batter.  Mix  in  earthen  dish,  take  a  large  kettle,  put  cold  water  in  it 
and  set  the  earthen  dish  in,  cover  each,  let  steam  for  about  2  hours 
or  until  dry  when  picked  with  broom  splint.  Eat  while  warm  with 
good  milk  sweetened.  What  is  left  over  can  be  steamed  again  and 
is  good. — Sister  Mat  tie  O.  Weaver,  Hinkletoivn,  Pa. 

Corn  Pudding, — Take  IJ/2  cups  of  corn  meal,  iy2  cups  of 
flour,  1;4  cups  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  lard,  ^2  cup  of  sugar,  2 
eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Sister  Kate  Zug,  Master- 
sonville,  Pa. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. — Take  1  quart  of  corn,  1  pint  of  new 
milk,  1  egg,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  egg  and  mix  all 
together  in  a  pudding  dish  ;  bake  in  the  oven  about  30  minutes. 
The  corn  should  be  fresh  plucked  and  carefully  taken  from  the  cob, 
either  by  running  a  sharp  knife  through  the  center  of  the  rows  or 
by  shaving  the  tips  off  and  then  pressing  the  pulp  out  with  a  blunt 
knife.  — Sister  Nannie  H.  Stray er,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Cornstarch  Custard. — Take  1  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Heat  the 
milk  to  boiling  point,  mix  the  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water 
with  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs ;  stir  in  the  milk  and  let  thicken, 
stirring  constantly.  Pour  this  over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs ;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  stir  very  lightly,  so  that  the  whites 


.7 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


197 


of  eggs  can  be  distinctly  seen.  Serve  cold. — Sister  Ida  M.  Ellen- 
berger,  Polo,  Mo. 

Cornstarch  Pudding. — Take  1  pint  of  milk,  whites  of  3  eggs, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
salt.  Put  milk  in  double  cooker,  and  when  about  the  boiling  point 
add  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  wet  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  lastly  the 
eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  beat  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  put  in 
moulds  and  cool ;  serve  the  following  sauce :  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  1  pint  of  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  the  3  eggs  thinned  with  1  tablespoonful  of  milk ;  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens ;  flavor  sauce  and  pudding  to  suit  taste. — Sister  Martha  L.  Fits, 
Panora,  Iowa. 

Cornstarch  Pudding. — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  let  come  to  a 
boil,  3  large  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  wet  with  some  cold  milk, 
sugar  to  taste;  when  boiled  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  ;  turn  into  a  large  bowl  to  cool.  Sauce : 
Take  1  pint  of  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  sugar  to  taste ;  when 
boiled  flavor  with  .vanilla.  "When  cold,  turn  the  white  part  into  a 
large  glass  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  around  it. — Sister  Kate  Ren- 
neker,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Cottage  Pudding. — Take  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of 
milk  and  cream,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen.  Bake  in  a  loaf.  Serve  with 
the  following  sauce:  Take  \y2  tin  cups  of  water,  y2  cup  of  sugar; 
let  boil,  add  a  small  lump  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch ; 
flavor  to  taste. — Sister  Anna  Shoivalter,  Lattasburg,  Ohio. 

Cottage  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of 
butter  or  lard,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  2y>  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Mix  thoroughly;  bake 
in  a  long  pan  20  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  or  lemon  sauce. — Sis- 
ter Alice  Gar  man,  Lancaster,  Pa. 


198 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Cottage  Pudding. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  lard,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  well, 
pour  into  a  pan  and  bake.  Serve  warm  with  sweet  milk. — Sister 
Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa. 

Cottage  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of  butter,  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Dissolve  in  milk  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  ex- 
tract. Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  batter  just  before 
putting  it  into  the  oven.  Bake  in  a  bread  pan  and  serve  with  sauce 
made  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour.  Mix  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  till  like  cream; 
then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  After  it  is  taken  off  the  fire,  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
extract. — Sister  Martha  Roycr,  Dallas  Center,  la. 

Crow  Nest  Pudding. — Put  1  pint  of  raspberries  into  a  pan, 
sweeten  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  top,  and  cover  with  a 
batter  made  of  1  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  egg,  y2 
cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
and  flour  to  mix  a  little  stiffer  than  cake  batter.  Bake  and  serve 
with  the  following  sauce :  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  browned  in  a 
pan ;  to  this  add  1  pint  of  milk  and  water,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  flavor  with 
vanilla. — Sister  Eva  Miller,  Sidney,  Ind. 

Currant  Roll. — Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  using  a  small  amount 
of  baking  powder ;  roll  out  about  the  same  thickness  as  for  pies, 
only  much  larger,  then  sprinkle  with  currants,  then  sugar,  grate 
nutmeg  over  it,  drop  bits  of  butter  here  and  there ;  roll  up  and  put 
in  a  bread  pan,  sprinkle  sugar,  grated  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
over  it ;  then  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  bake.  A  few  raisins 
used  with  the  currants  improve  it. — Sister  Pearl  Weimert,  Lamed, 
Kans. 

Duchess  Cream. — Take  y2  cup  of  tapioca,  cover  with  water 
and  soak  over  night.  Drain  off  in  the  morning  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.   Simmer  until  clear,  stirring  frequently.   Then  add  1 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS    AND  PUDDINGS 


199 


cup  of  sugar,  y2  can  of  pineapple,  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  the 
white  of  1  egg  well  beaten.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Sister 
Edna  Eisenbise,  Lanark,  III. 

Date  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  seeded  dates  and  cook  in 
\y2  cups  of  boiling  water,  to  which  a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  added. 
Thicken  with  graham  or  whole  wheat  flour,  not  too  thick.  Cook 
well  and  mould.  To  be  eaten  with  whipped  cream  or  cold  cream 
and  sugar.  Enough  for  four  persons. — Sister  I.  F.  Thomas,  Ingle- 
wood,  Cal. 

Delicious  Pudding. — Take  a  piece  of  light  bread  dough  the 
size  of  a  small  bowl,  cut  it  up  fine  in  a  pan ;  add  1  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  cup  of  currants  or  raisins,  ]/2 
cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  or  3  eggs  well  beaten; 
mix  into  a  smooth  batter  and  steam  4  hours  in  a  buttered  dish. — 
Sister  Minnie  Rexroad,  Darlow,  Kans. 

Duff  Pudding. — Take  4  cups  of  flour,  2  pounds  of  suet 
chopped  fine ;  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  y2  pound  of 
•  raisins,  1  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder ;  mix  together  well,  then 
put  in  a  vessel ;  put  some  water  in  a  kettle ;  let  it  boil,  then  set  the 
vessel  in  the  water,  cover  a  cloth  over  it  and  put  a  lid  on  the  kettle 
so  it  will  be  tight.  Keep  the  duff  covered  with  water;  let  water 
boil  30  minutes,  then  take  out  and  serve  with  cream.  Duff  can  be 
put  in  a  cloth  in  the  kettle  instead  of  the  vessel. — Sister  Mary  Row- 
land, Astoria,  III. 

Economy  Pudding. — Save  bread  scraps  or  biscuit  until  you 
have  a  good  dish  full ;  have  a  skillet  hot  with  several  spoonfuls  of 
lard  and  a  bit  of  butter  in  it ;  pour  in  the  bread  well  chipped  up  ; 
let  fry  a  few  minutes ;  pour  over  milk  with  which  has  been  mixed 
1  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  flavored  with  small  celery  tops 
chipped  very  fine ;  stir  all  together  into  a  mass ;  place  in  the  oven 
and  bake  15  or  20  minutes. — Sister  Mary  B.  Ebersole,  Salem,  Ore- 
gon. 


200 


SHORTCAKES, 


CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


English  Pudding. — Take  1  coffee  cup  each  of  English  cur- 
rants, seeded  raisins,  suet  chopped  fine,  sugar,  sour  milk.  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  a  little  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  allspice,  2 
well-beaten  eggs ;  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  pour  the 
batter  in  a  thin  muslin  sack,  first  dipping  the  sack  in  boiling  water 
to  prevent  the  pudding  from  sticking  to  the  sack;  have  the  sack 
large  enough  so  the  batter  will  not  fill  it  full,  or  it  will  not  get  light ; 
drop  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  or  steam  2  hours.  Serve  hot 
with  cherry  juice  or  any  desired  dressing. — Sister  Sue  Sister,  Dallas 
Center,  Iowa. 

Float. — Take  1  quart  of  sweet  milk  sweetened  to  taste,  yolks 
of  3  eggs  beaten  light ;  let  milk  come  to  a  boil  then  stir  in  yolks 
with  enough  milk  to  stir  easily  ;  cook,  and  as  you  take  it  off  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Flavor  to  taste. — Sister 
Mary  Reddick,  Sheridan,  Mo. 

Float. — Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  6  eggs  :  have  ready  on  the 
fire  a  pint  of  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla ;  as  soon  as  it 
boils  drop  the  beaten  eggs  into  it  by  tablespoonfuls.  and  as  soon  as 
they  become  set,  dip  them  out  with  a  thin  slice  and  arrange  them 
according  to  fancy  upon  a  broad  dish ;  allow  the  milk  to  cool  a  little, 
then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  gradually  ;  when  thick  pour 
around  the  snowed  eggs,  and  serve  cold. — Sister  Sue  Wire,  Acton, 
Okla. 

Flummery. — Boil  together  1  pint  of  juice  of  any  kind  of 
fruit  and  water :  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch;  when  done,  stir  in  1  pint  of  the  fruit.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Sister  Martha  L.  Fitz,  Panora,  Iowa. 

Fruit  Pudding. — Make  a  batter  of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar.  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  lard.  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  3^4  cups  of  flour.  Put  a  layer  of  batter  into  a 
deep  pan,  then  one  of  berries  or  cherries,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND    PUDDINGS  201 

Then  put  in  another  layer  of  batter.  Bake  one  hour  and  serve  with 
cream  or  milk. — Sister  Irene  Stoner  Weybright,  Detour,  Md. 

Fruit  Pudding. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  add  1 
pint  fruit  last.  Any  kind  of  fruit  or  berries  that  may  suit  the  taste 
can  be  used. — Sister  Kate  H.  Zug,  M aster s onvill c ,  Pa. 

Galaway  Cream  Custard. — First  make  a  soft  custard,  using 
nearly  a  pint  of  milk ;  1  egg,  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 
and  flavoring  to  taste.  Cake  part:  1^2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
water.  Sift  the  baking  powder  through  the  flour,  then  add  sugar, 
eggs  (do  not  beat  the  eggs)  and  water,  and  with  a  strong  spoon 
stir  until  well  mixed.  If  the  eggs  are  small  it  will  require  a  little 
more  water.  It  should  be  just  a  little  stiff  so  as  to  spread  in  the 
tins  with  a  knife.  Make  four  layers,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  golden 
yellow,  not  overdone  or  it  will  get  too  dry,  remove  from  the  tins 
and  spread  the  custard  between  the  layers.  If  just  right  it  will  be 
light  and  moist,  and  almost  melt  in  the  mouth.  It  makes  a  nice  wed- 
ding cake. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Gooseberry  Cobbler. — For  the  crust  take  1  pint  of  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
lard,  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  roll  out  until  a  little  thick- 
er than  pie  crust.  Spread  over  the  dough  1  quart  of  gooseberries; 
sweeten  to  taste.  Roll  the  berries  and  crust  together,  place  in  a 
bread  pan,  pour  over  1  pint  of  water;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
of  an  hour. — Sister  Etta  Archer,  Lenox,  Iowa. 

Graham  Pudding. — Take  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  spice  to  taste.  Steam  3  hours ;  eat  with  sugar  and  cream  or 
sauce. — Sister  A,  W ,  Hawbaker,  Kenmarc,  N.  Dak. 


202  SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 

Graham  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses, 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  raisins  y2  (scant)  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  wheat  flour,  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
cinnamon.  Mix  thoroughly  in  a  pan  that  holds  at  least  %  of  a 
gallon ;  place  in  a  steamer  and  steam  for  2  hours.  This  pudding 
can  be  kept  for  weeks  in  winter,  can  be  resteamed  at  any  time  and  be 
just  as  good  as  when  first  made.  Serve  warm  with  cream  of  the 
following  dressing:  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  mixed  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour ;  pour  over  it  slowly  y2  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring constantly;  let  boil  till  clear;  add  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  pour  upon  slices  of  the  pudding. — Sister 
Felicia  E.  Shaffer,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Hard  Times  Charlotte. — Take  V/2  pints  of  sweet  milk,  set  on 
the  fire  to  boil.   Mix  together  the  following :    y2  large  cup  of  sugar, 

1  beaten  egg,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  y2  cup  of  milk, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  a  pinch  of  salt,  blend  smooth 
and  pour  gradually  into  the  boiling  milk ;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  all  Jhe  time.  Fill  a  large  fruit  dish  with  any  kind  of  stale  cake 
cut  in  small  pieces ;  when  the  cream  is  nearly  cold,  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla  and  pour  over  the  cake.  Serve  cold. — Sister  Jas.  F. 
Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cat. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs,  beat  the  whites  sepa- 
rate, 1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  pint  of  berries 
put  in  a  dish  and  floured  well,  mixing  up  with  the  hands.  Do  not 
have  berries  wet  when  using  the  flour.  Serve  with  sweetened  milk. 
— Sister  Sadie  K.  Imler,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  1  egg, 
J/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  2  cups  of 
flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  and  add  the 
huckleberries  or  strawberries.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve 
while  hot  with  sweet  milk. — Sister  Susan  Banner,  Abbottstozvn,  Pa. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


203 


Baked  Huckleberry  Pudding. — Mix  2  cups  of  light  brown 
sugar,  Y\  of  a  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  1  quart  of  huckleberries ;  make  a  dough  as  thick  as  for 
jelly  cake;  bake  y.  of  an  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce  or  milk. — Sister  Mahala  Stoner,  Aultnian,  Ohio. 

Indian  Pudding. — Take  ]/2  cup  of  corn  meal  sifted  in  1  quart 
of  boiling  milk ;  then  mix  together  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of 
sugar,  3  or  4  eggs,  1  pint  of  cold  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  mix 
thoroughly  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk  and  meal,  then  bake  2  or 
3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Mary  E.  Towslee,  Colby,  Kans. 

Kiss  Pudding. — Put  1  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  boil,  adding 
about  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  just  before  it  begins  to  boil. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  add  when  the 
starch  is  done.  After  adding  the  yolks  stir  constantly  and  remove 
from  fire ;  after  about  2  minutes  flavor.  Pour  into  a  pan  and  cover 
with  whites  beaten  very  stiff  with  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  just  a 
little  and  a  little  flavoring.  Put  in  the  stove  to  brown  lightly.  Eat 
cold  with  cream. — Sister  Mary  E.  Clapper,  Lamed,  Kans. 

La  Fiesta  Pudding. — Take  1  heaping  pint  of  flour,  y2  cup 
of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Sister  Lucy  Magic,  Tropico,  Cal. 

Lemon  Jelly. — Moisten  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  stir 
into  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  y,  cup 
of  sugar.  Grate  in  a  little  of  the  rind.  Put  in  molds  to  cool. — 
Sister  Martha  V.  Flory,  Sterling,  III. 

Lemon  Pudding. — Scald  1  pint  of  milk,  into  which  put  1  cup 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  let  boil  once, 
then  set  aside  to  cool  a  little,  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten 
with  l/2  cup  of  sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  ;  pour  in  pudding 
dish  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes ;  remove  from  the  oven,  spread  over 
the  top  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs  beaten  with  y>  cup  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  the  lemon;  set  in  oven  to  brown  slightly.  Serve  warm.— 
Sister  Laura  Smucker,  Timberville,  Va. 


204 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Excellent  Lemon  Pudding. — Take  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1 
lemon — grated  rind  and  extract  to  taste.  Frosting:  Take  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  pulp  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Set  in  oven  till  light  brown.  Serve  cold. — 
Sister  Gertrude  Sterner,  Hutsonville,  III. 

Marshmallow  Fluff. — Take  1  pound  of  marshmallows,  cut 
each  in  four  dice,  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff,  the  beaten  white 
of  one  egg  and  pulverized  sugar  to  taste.  Add  marshmallows  and 
Y\  pound  of  English  walnuts  broken  in  small  pieces  to  cream  and 
mix  all  together.  Will  serve  six  persons. — Sister  Edna  Crowe,  Des 
Moines,  Iowa. 

Marshmallow  Pudding. — Dissolve  1  rounding  tablespoon- 
ful  of  granulated  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water.  Place  over  the 
fire  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  J/2  cup  of  cold  water 
and  let  stand  to  cool.  Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  very  light 
and  stiff,  and  pour  over  the  gelatine  slowly,  beating  all  the  time 
while  pouring  in.  Sprinkle  in  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  beat 
while  adding.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract  and  beat  again. 
Take  ]A>  of  the  mixture  and  color  pink.  Then  spread  one  layer  of 
the  white  in  the  pan  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts ;  then  the  pink 
layer  and  chopped  nuts,  and  the  rest  of  the  white  for  the  top  layer. 
Let  get  cool  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Sister  Anna  B.  Wales, 
North  English,  Iowa. 

Molasses  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  ]/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  2  scant  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Bake  and  serve 
with  any  kind  of  sauce  desired. — Sister  Minnie  B.  Smith,  Berthoud, 
Colo. 

Mountain  Dew  Pudding. — Take  1  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  cocoanut,  J/2  cup  rolled  crackers,  1  teaspoon- 
ful lemon  extract,  and  a  little  sugar.  Bake  half  hour.  Make  a 
frosting  of  whites  of  2  eggs  and  y  CUP  granulated  sugar.  Brown  in 
oven. — Sister  Etta  Eckerle;  Lanark,  III. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


205 


Minute  Pudding. — Have  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  into  which 
stir  enough  flour  to  make  it  thick  like  mush.  Let  it  cook  thoroughly 
done,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  lumps.  Serve  while  hot  with 
cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Maggie  Moomaw,  Versailles,  Mo. 

Orange  Custard. — Take  the  juice  of  8  oranges,  6  eggs,  2 
cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  and  y2  cup  of  flour.  Mix  together  all 
except  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  boil  until  thick.  Beat  the  whites 
stiff  and  stir  into  the  custard  as  soon  as  you  take  it  off  the  stove. — 
Sister  R.  F.  Britbaker,  San  Dimas,  Cat. 

Orange  Float.— Take  1  quart  of  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of 
2  lemons,  1  coffeecup  of  sugar ;  boil  all  together ;  add  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  let  boil  15  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold,  pour  over  it  4  or  5  seeded  and 
sliced  oranges.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  with  a  little  sugar,  flavor 
with  vanilla ;  spread  over  the  top  of  the  float. — Sister  Mina  Col- 
clesser,  Huntington,  hid. 

Orange  Pudding. — Pare  and  slice  3  large  oranges,  cut  very 
fine,  lay  in  a  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Let 
stand  Yo  hour.  Then  take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  flour  and  1  quart  of  new  milk. 
When  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  or  cornstarch,  and 
boil  till  it  thickens.  Let  cool  a  little  and  pour  over  the  oranges. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  y2  cup  of  sugar  and 
spread  over  the  pudding  and  brown.  The  addition  of  2  bananas, 
sliced  thin,  improves  this  delicious  pudding. — Sister  Hazel  Brown, 
Winchester,  Va. 

Orange  Pudding. — Peel  and  cut  in  bits  4  oranges,  rejecting 
the  seeds.  Sprinkle  a  cup  of  sugar  over  them.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk, 
to  which  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  1  tablespoonful 
of  cornstarch.  When  it  thickens  pour  it  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  sugar.  Frost 
the  pudding  and  brown  it  in  the  oven.  You  can  substitute  straw- 
berries or  peaches  if  you  like. — Sister  Minnie  E.  Schultz,  Lancas- 
ter, Pa. 


206 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AXD  PUDDINGS 


Orange  Pudding. — Peel  and  cut  in  small  squares  6  oranges, 
sprinkle  with  sugar.  Let  stand  about  2  hours.  Boil  1  pint  of  milk, 
beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch.  Stir  into  the  milk  while  boiling.  Cook  un- 
til thick,  or  till  it  is  done.  When  nearly  cold,  pour  over  the  oranges. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  with  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Spread  over 
the  pudding.  Set  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  let  brown 
lightly.  The  reason  for  putting  it  in  a  pan  of  water  is  to  keep  the 
oranges  from  cooking. — Sister  Mary  A.  Rosenberger,  Covington, 
Ohio. 

Peach  Cobbler. — Make  a  crust  of  sweet  milk,  lard,  baking 
powder,  salt,  and  flour,  almost  but  not  quite  as  short  as  for  pie 
dough.  Line  a  bread  pan  or  baking  dish  with  the  dough,  put  in  a 
layer  of  peeled  and  stoned  peaches,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg.  Roll  out  a  piece  of  this  dough  and  cut  it  into  small 
squares  and  put  in  a  layer  of  these ;  finish  with  another  layer  of 
peaches,  over  which  sprinkle  sugar,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
flour.  Add  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  sufficient  water  to  make  plenty 
of  juice.  Put  on  a  cover  of  the  dough,  with  openings  in  the  center 
for  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in  the  oven  the  same  as  chicken  pie. 
To  be  served  warm  and  eaten  with  rich  milk  and  sugar.  Canned 
peaches  may  be  used  when  fresh  ones  cannot  be  obtained. — Sister 
Lizzie  D.  Mohler,  Falls  City,  Nebr. 

Peach  Float. — Take  1  quart  can  of  peaches  from  which  the 
syrup  has  been  drained,  mash  fine,  add  y2  cup  sugar.  Beat  the  whites 
of  2  or  3  eggs  stiff  and  beat  into  the  peaches.  Bake  5  or  10  minutes  ; 
when  cool  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Apples  are  very  good 
served  in  the  same  way. — Sister  Frances  Miller  Leiter,  Hade,  Pa. 

Peach  Pudding. — Two  or  three  hours  before  mealtime  pare, 
slice,  and  sugar  very  ripe  peaches.  Toast  nicely 'thin  slices  of  stale 
bread.  Put  alternate  layers  of  the  prepared  peaches  and  bread  into 
a  deep  dish.  Set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  cream  or  rich  whole 
milk. — Sister  Phoebe  Zook,  Mattawana,  Pa. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


207 


Peach  Pudding. — Peel  and  cut  about  1  quart  of  ripe  peaches, 
put  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  white  sugar;  let  a  pint 
of  milk  get  boiling  hot  by  setting  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  add 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  made 
smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  all  the  time.  As  soon  as  thick- 
ened, pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top  for  frosting,  set  in 
the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  harden.  Serve  cold  with  cream.  Berries 
or  oranges  can  be  substituted  for  the  peaches. — Sister  Lydia  Garber, 
Rcdiicld,  Kans. 

Persimmon  Pudding. — Scald  1  gallon  of  persimmons,  let 
stand  over  night  in  same  water,  then  drain  and  rub  them  through  -a 
perforated  sieve.  Peel  and  grind  or  grate  1  quart  of  sweet  pota- 
toes, add  1  cup  of  molasses,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs  well  beaten, 
1  quart  of  fresh  milk,  not  skimmed,  4  cups  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  in  granite  pan,  bake  in  a  medium 
oven  2y2  hours  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  This  pudding  will 
keep  as  fruit  cake,  if  kept  in  a  cool  place.- — Sister  Emmet  Moore, 
Moor  eland,  Ind. 

Pineapple  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over 
night,  V/2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  dissolved  in  water,  and  cook  al- 
most to  a  syrup,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  1  can  of  sliced  pine- 
apple chopped  in  pieces,  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  stirred  in  when 
cold. — Sister  Kate  Whitaker,  Red  Cloud,  Nebr. 

Pineapple  Pudding. — Use  1  can  of  pineapple,  or  1  fresh  pine. 
Run  through  the  grinder  to  make  fine.  If  a  fresh  pine  is  used,  cook 
it  a  few  minutes  and  sweeten  well ;  then  put  into  a  big  dish.  Over 
this  fruit,  pour  a  batter  made  of  the  yolk  of  1  egg-,  l/2  cup  of  sugar, 
y2  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  shortening,  and 
y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  mixed  in  Vy  cups  of  flour. 
When  it  is  baked,  cover  with  a  meringue,  made  of  the  white  of  the 
egg  and  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Brown  in  the  oven. — Sister  Lil- 
lus  E.  Mahan,  Omaja,  Cuba. 


208 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Baked  Pieplant. — Cut  2  pounds  of  pieplant  into  a  pudding 
dish,  sprinkle  over  it  T/2  cup  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  or  what  is  better,  T/2  cup  of  rolled  breadcrumbs.  Add  water 
until  the  pieplant  is  two-thirds  covered.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty 
or  forty  minutes.  This  method  of  preparing  pieplant  removes  the 
medicinal  tasfe  and  makes  an  acceptable  spring  dish. — Sister 
Martha  V.  Flory,  Sterling,  III 

Plum  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  egg,  a  little  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  as  stiff 
as  for  cake.  Boil  or  steam  two  or  three  hours. — Sister  L.  Clanin, 
Hicksville, .  Wash . 

Prune  Dessert. — Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  stiff,  add  gradual- 
ly 1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  y2  cup  of  chopped  En- 
glish walnuts  and  27  pitted  prunes  which  have  been  cooked  and 
hashed  fine.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish  a  short  time.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Sister  Kathryn  Wingert,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Prune  Dessert. — Cover  the  prunes  with  water  and  let  soak- 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  stew  slowly 
until  soft,  drain,  remove  the  seeds,  cut  up  fine.  Y\  nen  cold,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  grated  rind  also  if  desired.  Beat  the  whites 
of  2  or  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  prunes  and 
serve.  The  juice  of  the  prunes  may  be  used  for  another  dessert: 
Bring  the  juice  to  a  boil ;  dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in 
a  cup  of  milk,  add  this  to  the  juice,  stir  till  it  thickens,  remove  from 
the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  into  cups  to  cool.  Serve  in 
the  cups  with  milk  or  cream. — Sister  Adaline  Hohf  Beery,  Elgin,  111. 

Prune  Pudding. — Take  the  whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  1  cup  of  stewed  prunes  chopped  fine,  5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ; 
add  the  seed  kernels  chopped  fine,  and  mix  all  together ;  put  into  a 
pudding  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  40  minutes. — 
Sister  Clara  Ringer,  Oregon,  111. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND    PUDDINGS  209 

Prune  Whip. — Cook  y2  pound  of  choice  prunes  until  dry  and 
tender.  Remove  the  stones  and  mash  the  fruit.  Add  y2  'cup  of 
sugar,  Yz  teaspoonful  cream  oi  tartar,  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
5  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes.  Serve  either  warm 
or  cold  with  cream. — Sister  R.  E.  Arnold,  Elgin,  III. 

Raisin  Pudding. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  1  pound  of  raisins, 
2  eggs,  I3/2  cups  of  suet,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  iy  cups 
of  sugar  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Tie  loosely  in  a 
cloth  and  drop  in  boiling  water.  Boil  from  iy2  to  2  hours,  or  spread 
a  cloth  on  a  steamer,  and  pour  the  pudding  on  it. — Sister  Sue  Rank, 
Rockhill  Furnace,  Pa. 

Raspberry  Pudding. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda;  beat  well  together,  thicken  with 
flour  about  as  thick  as  cake  batter;  grease  a  baking  pan,  put  in  a 
layer  of  the  batter,  then  a  layer  of  the  fruit,  and  so  on ;  bake  in  a 
slow  Oven.  Serve  warm  with  cream. — Sister  Ida  B.  Hamilton, 
Springport,  Ind. 

Raspberry  Pyramid. — Wash  ]/2  pint  of  good  hard  rice,  put 
it  into  a  quart  of  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  till  the  rice  is 
quite  soft,  season  with  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  then  while  hot  spread 
on  a  large  plate  %.  of  an  inch  thick  and  cover  this  with  ripe  rasp- 
berries ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  another  layer  of  rice  and  berries, 
making  each  layer  smaller  than  the  preceding  one,  so  as  to  form  a 
pyramid ;  let  it  stand  until  quite  cold.  Serve  in  perpendicular  slices 
with  sweetened  cream  or  milk. — Sister  Hannah  Ziegler,  Royers- 
ford,  Pa. 

Rhubarb  Tapioca. — To  1  pint  of  chopped  rhubarb  add  2  dozen 
•  cooked  prunes,  %  cup  of  prune  juice  and  y2  cup  of  sugar  ;  boil  for 
5  or  10  minutes,  then  add  y>  cup  of  any  quick-cooking  tapioca  which 
has  first  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour  in  ^4  cup  of  cold  water ;  cook 
until  the  tapioca  looks  transparent.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with 
sugar  and  cream. — Sister  S.  S.  Blough,  Batavia,  III. 


210 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Ribbon  Pudding. — First  Part :  Take  1  pint  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  vanilla  and  sugar 
to  suit  the  taste.  [About  *4  CUP  of  sugar  should  be  sufficient. — Ed.] 
Stir  the  egg  yolks  and  cornstarch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  into 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  when  nearly  boiling.  Boil  a  few  minutes 
then  flavor  and  pour  into  one  large  mold  or  divide  into  individual 
molds.  While  this  is  cooling  and  becoming  set  proceed  with  Second 
Part:  Take  1  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  cocoa  mixed  with  a  little  milk.  Make  as  above, 
adding  vanilla  and  sugar ;  perhaps  a  little  more  than  above  of  latter. 
Pour  this  into  the  mold  or  molds  on  top  of  first  part.  Third  part: 
Take  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  and  sugar  to  sweeten.  Wet  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  stir  into  the  cup  of  wrater  when  boiling.  Take  from  the 
stove  and  immediately  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Then  pour 
this  on  top  of  second  part  in  the  mold. — Sister  Lizzie  Andes, 
Ephrata,  Pa. 

Rice  Custard. — Cook  done  y2  cup  rice  seasoned  with  a  lit- 
tle salt.  Then  add  2  cups  cream.  Beat  the  whites,  of  2  eggs,  and 
2/i  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again  and  when  the  rice  and  cream  begin 
to  boil,  add  the  eggs  and  sugar  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  then 
take  off  and  flavor. — Sister  Lillie  M.  Blickcnstait,  Ccrro  Gordo,  III. 

Rice  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  rice,  wash  and  scald,  but  do. 
not  boil ;  let  stand  V2  hour,  drain,  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  1  quart  of  sweet  milk ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  in  oven 
until  rice  is  done. — Sister  Mary  Netzley,  Batavia,  III. 

Rice  Pap  or  Pudding. — Take  2  quarts  water,  T/2  teacupful 
rice,  1  teacupful  flour,  1  egg,  2  quarts  rich  milk  and  y2  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Boil  rice  in  water  till  nearly  dry,  then  have  your  milk  boil- 
ing, and  pour  the  rice  into  the  milk.  Keep  back  1  teacupful  milk, 
and  make  a  batter  of  flour,  egg,  and  milk ;  add  salt  and  stir  in  batter. 
Stir  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  eat  with  sugar. 
Maple  sugar  is  fine  if  you  have  it. — Sister  Saaie  Lichty,  Waterloo, 
Iozva. 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


211 


Rice  Pudding. — To  a  cup  of  rice  boiled  until  dry  in  a  pint 
of  water,  seasoned  with  salt,  add  a  pint  of  milk  in  which  a  little  corn- 
starch has  been  dissolved ;  boil  again,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  stir  well  together  and  lastly  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Place  in  a  dish  and  bake  slowly 
in  the  oven.  When  done  spread  over  the  top  the  whites  beaten  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  A  cup 
of  raisins  may  be  added  just  before  baking,  if  liked. — Sister  Ella 
Suavely,  Scottville,  Mich. 

Steamed  Roly  Poly. — Take  iy2  cups  of  sour  cream,  or  sour 
milk  and  ]/2  cup  butter  and  lard,  a  little  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Add  flour  to  form  a  soft  dough  as  for  biscuit  and  roll  out 
into  one  large  sheet.  Spread  over  this  stewed,  fresh  or  dried, 
peaches,  apples  or  apricots,  without  juice,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Roll  up  like  roll  jell  cake  and  close  ends  by  pressing  dough  together. 
Place  in  a  well  greased  steamer  with  large  holes  in  bottom.  Set 
over  kettle  half  full  of  boiling  water  and  keep  boiling  for  \]/2  to  2 
hours,  depending  on  fruit.  Eat  with  sweetened  milk  or  plain. — 
Sister  Lizzie  Shirk,  J\It.  Morris,  III. 

Sago  Pudding. — To  2  cups  of  any  kind  of  cold  fruit  juice  add 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  and  cook  until  the  sago  is  well  swollen. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  whipped  cream. 
Enough  for  four  persons. — Sister  J.  F.  Thomas,  Inglewood,  Col. 

Sago  Pudding. — Take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  1  pineapple  chopped  fine.  Boil  together  or  steam  for 
two  hours.  A  lemon  may  be  added  to  it,  if  desired. — Sister  Mary 
C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Snow  Cream. — Heat  a  quart  of  thick,  sweet  cream ;  when 
ready  to  boil,  stir  into  it  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  blended  with 
some  cold  cream ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Allow  it  to  boil  gently,  stirring 
for  2  or  3  minutes ;  add  quickly  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth.  •  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil  up  more  than  once  after  adding  the 
eggs.  Flavor  with  any  desired  flavoring. — Sister  Sara  Reese  Eby, 
West  Ulkton,  Ohio: 


212 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Silver  Pudding  with  Gold  Dressing. — Take  4  tablespoon- 

fuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water,  pour  on  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  a  thick  starch ;  beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  in  the  starch  while  hot  so  as  to  cook  the  eggs.  Dress- 
ing: Take  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla ;  let  come  to  a  boil.,  then  put  in  a  separate  dish  and  let  cool. 
After  the  starch  is  dished  in  sauce  dishes,  serve  the  Gold  Dressing. 
Sister  Lizzie  E.  Smith,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Spanish  Cream. — To  1  quart  of  milk  add  ^4  of  a  box  of  gela- 
tin dissolved  slowly  over  the  fire ;  then  beat  light  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  vanilla  to  taste,  add  to  the  milk,  let  come 
to  a  boil ;  then  beat  the  whites  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  pour 
the  custard  into  the  whites,  stir  well  together  and  set  away  to  cool. 
— Sister  Annie  R.  Stoncr,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Steamed  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  and 
y2  nutmeg  grated.  Use  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam 
two  hours  and  eat  with  sweetened  cream. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Burger, 
Weiser,  Idaho. 

Strawberry  Custard. — To  1  pint  of  warm  water  add  enough 
biscuit  crumbs  to  thicken,  then  add  1  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Chop  fine  1  pint  of  straw- 
berries and  add  to  above  after  mixing.  Bake  until  brown.  Cover 
the  top  with  whole  strawberries.  Let  cool  and  serve  as  dessert. — 
Sister  Amy  V .  Furry,  Johnsville,  Md. 

Suet  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder ;  steam  3  hours.  Sauce :  Take  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, water  to  make  as  thin  as  desired. — Sister  M.  E.  Wise,  Myrtle- 
point,  Oregon. 

Suet  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  suet,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  teaspoonful 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS    AND  PUDDINGS 


213 


salt,  and  spice  to  suit  taste.  Steam  about  3  hours.  Sauce  for  same : 
Take  a  small  teacupful  of  water,  and  y2  pint  maple  sugar.  Let  sim- 
mer. Remove  the  scum.  Take  4  tablespoonfuls  butter,  mix  with  a 
level  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  a 
few  moments  and  serve  with  pudding  while  warm. — Sister  Susie  M. 
Brallier,  Johnstozvn,  Pa. 

Suet  Pudding. — Take  y2  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  y2 
cup  of  chopped  suet,  y2  cup  of  raisins  cut  fine,  J/2  cup  of  sour  milk, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  cup  of  flour ;  mix  and  steam.   Sauce :  Take 

1  pint  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  a  lump  of  butter,  vanilla  to  flavor, 
bring  to  a  boil,  then  let  slightly  cool.  Serve  pudding  warm  with 
sauce. — Sister  Agnes  K.  Landis,  Richland,  Pa. 

Suet  Pudding. — Take  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  y>  cup  of  New 
Orleans  molasses,  y>  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  3  small  cups  of  flour,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, nutmeg,  and  as  much  citron  and  raisins  as  you  like.  Steam 

2  hours.  Sauce :  V2  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  boiling 
water,  nutmeg  or  brandy  to  flavor.  Beat  well  together.  Serve  hot. 
— Sister  Mary  Kinsley,  Elkhart,  Ind. 

Suet  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  sor- 
ghum, 1  cup  raisins  seeded,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  cups  flour,  1  scant  tea- 
spoonful soda,  a  little  salt.  Put  pudding  in  bag,  steam  3  hours. 
Dressing :  1  pint  water,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  cup  sugar ;  flavor 
with  cinnamon;  thicken  with  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch. — Sister 
C.  S.  Eisenbise,  Sabetha,  Kans. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  4  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a 
little  water  over  night  or  2  hours ;  boil  1  quart  of  milk  and  pour 
over  the  tapioca  while  hot ;  when  cool  add  ]/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  whole 
egg  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten ;  bake ;  when  done,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  on 
top. — Sister  S.  M.  Romig,  Fostoria,  Ohio. 


214 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


Tapioca  Pudding. — Take  1  teacupful  of  tapioca  soaked  2 
hours  in  1  pint  of  milk.  Then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  sweeten  to  taste, 
and  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth.  Then  boil  till  tender.  Flavor  to  taste. 
It  may  be  served  warm  or  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. — Sister  Mary 
E.  H alderman,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  1 
quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste;  mix  tapioca  with  half  of 
the  milk,  cold,  put  on  fire  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  put  in 
baking  dish  and  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  butter,  eggs,  sugar  and 
flavoring;  bake  a  nice  brown. — Sister  C.  N.  Huff,  Amsterdam,  Va. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  over 
night  in  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  in  the  morning  boil  1  quart  of 
milk  with  the  soaked  tapioca  and  ^  of  a  cup  of  sugar ;  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  cook  for  10  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Remove  from 
the  fire ;  thoroughly  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  add  to  the  tapioca, 
stirring  rapidly  for  5  minutes  to  prevent  curdling.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  pour  over  the  top  of  the  pudding;  sift  sugar  over  it 
and  brown  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  Serve  cold. — Sister  H.  I. 
Buechley,  Carlisle,  Ark. 

Vanilla  Cream. — Take  y2  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together ;  add  to  the  boiling 
milk,  stir  till  thick ;  do  not  allow  it  to  boil ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Serve 
cold  on  sliced  oranges,  bananas,  peaches  or  apricots. — Sister  Emma 
S.  Andes,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Vanilla  Snow. — Cook  1  cup  of  rice  in  a  covered  dish  to  keep 
it  white.  When  nearly  done  add  1  cup  of  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  1  cupful  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pile  in  a  glass  dish  and  dot  with  jelly.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 
— Sister  Etta  Crumpacker,  Roanoke,  La. 

Velvet  Cream. — Dissolve  y2  package  of  gelatin  in  V/z  cups  of 
water.  Add  \y2  cups  of  sugar.  Set  over  the  fire  long  enough  to 
dissolve.   When  cool  add      P^t  of  cream  previously  whipped  and 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


215 


flavor  with  vanilla  to  suit  taste. — Sister  I.  M.Englar,  Union  Bridge, 
Md. 

Vinegar  Jelly. — Take  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and 
1  cup  of  water,  and  put  on  in  a  double  boiler.  When  it  boils  add 
to  it  1  cup  of  flour,  made  smooth  with  1  cup  of  water,  and  stir  until 
it  thickens.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste ;  J/2  teaspoonful  of  ground  cin- 
namon, teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves  mixed  with  the  flour  while 
dry,  makes  it  very  good.  One  cup  of  molasses  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  sugar. — Sister  Mary  L.  R.  Davis,  Dunn,  Tenn. 

Whipped  Cream. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  cream  well  beaten ; 
add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  ;  beat  very  hard ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste 
and  serve  in  dessert. — Sister  Mary  Rowland,  Astoria,  III. — If  cream 
to  be  whipped  is  first  scalded  and  then  cooled  again  it  will  swell 
more  when  whipped  and  keep  sweet  longer. — Sister  Blanche  Lents, 
Elgin,  III. 

The  Winter  Pudding. — An  excellent  winter  pudding  may  be 
made  as  follows :  A  cupful  of  finely-picked  or  chopped  suet,  kept 
cool,  or  it  will  not  work  right,  1  cup  of  any  kind  of  sugar,  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  *4  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cin- 
namon and  cloves,  2J/2  cupfuls  of  flour,  a  teacupful  of  raisins  and  1 
cupful  of  currants,  2  full  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  a  tea- 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  a  pan  the  suet,  the  sugar  and  the 
bread  crumbs,  pour  the  milk  over  this  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then 
stir  in  the  eggs  and  the  fruit  and  all  the  other  ingredients.  Lastly 
stir  in  the  baking  powder  with  a  half  teacupful  of  flour.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Put  in  a  well-greased  pan,  set  in  a  steamer,  over  boiling 
water,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  for  2y2  hours,  or  till  a  broom  splint 
will  come  out  clean  when  the  pudding  is  tested.  For  the  sauce  melt 
together  in  a  pan  a  cupful  of  sugar,  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  when  these  are  not  only  melted,  but  hot, 
pour  over  all  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 
nilla. The  pudding  left  over  Can  be  resteamed  as  long  as  it  lasts. 
This  has  been  thoroughly  tried  and  is  excellent  as  a  cold  weather 
dish.— Sister  Ada  L.  Early,  Macdoel,  Cal. 


216 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS  AND  PUDDINGS 


Woodford  Pudding.— Take  1  cup  of  jam,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2 

cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
34  of  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
Bake  slowly  and  serve  with  a  sauce.— Sister  Xora  B.  Huftord,  Ross- 
ville,  hid. 

Woodford  Pudding.— Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  jam  or  preserves 
(it  is  best  to  use  something  with  small  seeds,  such  as  gooseberries 
or  raspberries),  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  \y2  cups  flour.  1 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sour  milk.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  bake  slowly.  Sauce :  1  cup 
sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  tablespoonful  flour.  1  cup  boiling 
water.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  pudding  and 
serve  while  warm. — Sister  Sallie  Shirkey,  Rockingham,  Mo. 

Woodruff  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 

y2  cup  of  flour.  y2  cup  of  jelly.  3  eggs.  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  or 
sour  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  double  boiler  and  boil  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Sauce :  Take  2/z  cup  of  sugar.  1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
y±  cup  of  butter,  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Boil  until  clear  and 
flavor  to  taste. — Sister  Emma  Schiidknecht.  Re  a,  Mo. 

Where  any  recipe  calls  for  both  sugar  and  flour,  always  mix 
them  dry  before  adding  the  milk  or  cream,  and  the  mixture  will  be 
smooth, —  no  lumps,  as  is  usually  the  case  when  milk  and  flour  are 
mixed  alone. — Sister  Sadie  Finch,  Portersville,  Cal, 


SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


218  SHORTCAKES,    CUSTARDS   AND  PUDDINGS 


The  pie,  it  is  said,  is  a  strictly  American  invention  or  discovery. 
Some  people  think  this  is  to  be  counted  to  our  credit,  while  some 
think  otherwise,  each  side  being-  influenced  by  the  nature  of  his  ac- 
quaintance with  the  said  invention.  Those  who  have  been  favored 
'  with  careful,  skillful  cooks,  and  to  whose  portion  there  has  often 
fallen  a  generous  wedge  of  delectable  pie  fruit,  are  unanimous  in  the 
opinion,  that  the  discovery  of  pie  should  be  classed  with  the  other 
great  discoveries  of  the  world.  Given  a  well-prepared  pastry,  for 
the  making  of  which  we  have  several  recipes,  and  the  next  matter 
of  importance  is  the  baking.  Often  pies  are  either  overdone  or  un- 
derdone. If  you  cannot  trust  the  "  smell  "  of  the  oven,  test  it  with 
a  bit  of  pie  crust  or  a  sprinkle  of  flour  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven. 
If  it  browns  readily,  the  oven  is  in  proper  condition  ;  if  it  turns  black, 
it  is  too  hot  and  if  it  colors  slightly  it  is  too  slow.  After  the  pie 
has  been  in  for  a  few  minutes  the  heat  may  be  decreased  slightly ; 
especially  should  this  be  done  where  the  filling  is  of  raw  material,  so 
that  it  may  have  time  to  cook  through  before  the  crust  becomes  too 
brown.  If  stewed  fruit  is  used,  it  should  be  perfectly  cold  so  that  it 
will  not  soak  the  crust.  Brushing  the  lower  crust  with  white  of  egg 
before  putting  in  filling  will  also  prevent  soaking.  For  pies  baked 
in  the  crust,  such  as  cream,  custard  and  pumpkin,  it  is  well  to  partly 
bake  the  crust  before  putting  in  the  filling.  It  is  said  that  the  use  of 
cornmeal  in  pie  crust,  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  to  two-thirds  of 
flour,  makes  it  lighter  and  more  digestible.  The  best  way  to  pre- 
vent juicy  pies  from  boiling  over,  is  first  to  see  that  the  filling  does 
not  insure  a  greater  amount  of  juice  than  can  well  be  accommo- 
dated ;  then  see  that  there  is  ample  opening  in  the  top  crust  for  the 
escape  of  steam,  and  lastly  make  the  top  crust  large  enough  to  ex- 

219 


220 


PIES 


tend  a  little  beyond  the  edge  of  the  pie  plate  and  lower  crust  and 
double  the  extra  edge  under  the  edge  of  the  lower  crust.  This  when 
pressed  down  with  fork  or  thumb  will  make  a  well-nigh  unleakable 
seam. 

Pie  Crust. — Sift  together  3  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cut  into  this  1  cup  of  lard. 
Chop  and  mix  with  a  knife,  only  using  hands  to  toss  lightly  to- 
gether. (Do  not  knead  pie  dough  or  it  will  be  tough).  Moisten 
with  very  cold  water  only  just  enough  to  roll  out.  Use  as  little  dry 
flour  as  possible  in  the  process.  This  will  make  three  pies.  If  all  is 
not  wanted,  do  not  add  water  to  all  the  flour  and  lard,  but  set  it 
away  until  another  time. — Sister  W\  H.  Royer,  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Pie  Crust  (For  Two  Pies). — Take  1  cup  of  flour,  cup  of 
lard  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  this  with  the  hand,  add  enough  water  to 
make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  well. — Sister  Carrie  Martin, 
Mankato,  Kans. 

Pie  Crust. — Take  3  cups  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  shortening, 
salt  and  flour  to  stiffen.    This  will  make  10  or  more  pies. — Sister 

Florence  Hays  Kline,  Broadway,  Va. 

Good  Pie  Crust. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  lard,  }i  cup 
of  cold  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  level  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  rub  in  the 
lard  till  well  mixed,  make  into  a  dough  with  the  cold  water  and  roll 
quite  thin. — Sister  John  D.  Clear,  Rockford,  III. 

Healthful  Pastry. — Put  into  a  mixing  bowl  3  cups  of  flour, 
1  cup  of  melted  lard,  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
well  together  with  a  spoon.  This  makes  three  pies  with  covers. — 
Sister  Milo  H.  Geyer,  Syracuse,  Ind. 

Healthful  Pie  Crust. — Mix  salt  in  the  desired  amount  of 
flour.  Dissolve  a  very  little  soda  in  some  rich  sour  cream,  and  mix 
all  together  to  a  soft  dough.  Never  use  much  flour  in  rolling  pie 
dough.  This  is  more  hygienic  than  the  ordinary  lard-and-water 
kind  and  looks  much  richer  and  better.    Sweet  cream  and  baking 


PIES 


221 


powder  may  be  used  with  good  results. — Sister  Nettie  C.  Weybright, 
Syracuse,  Ind. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. — Take  3  pints  of  flour,  1  pint  of  lard,  and 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt :  rub  lard  and  salt  thoroughly  through  the 
flour,  then  take  as  much  cold  water  as  will  make  a  soft  dough,  mix 
with  as  little  kneading  as  possible.  This  will  make  crust  for  6  pies. 
■ — Sister  Ida  M.  Benner,  Duncansville,  Pa. 

Pie  Dough. — Take  flour,  mix  in  lard  and  salt,,  then  add  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread  sponge,  add  enough  water  to  wet  dough. 
Let  set  y2  hour  before  forming  into  pies. — Sister  G.  R.  Goughnour, 
Middlebranch,  Ohio. 

Amber  Pies. — Take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  1  level  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  2  cups  of  buttermilk, 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  small  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  and  let 
thicken  over  a  slow  fire  and  pour  into  2  baked  crusts.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  spread  on  the 
top  of  pies  and  place  in  the  oven  until  brown. — Sister  Laura  Crutch- 
ley,  Mulberry  Grove,  III. 

Apple  Custard. — Take  y2  cup  of  melted  butter,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  3  cups  of  stewed  apples,  and  4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately.  Bake  in  pie  plates  in  bottom  crust. — Sister  Cora  B. 
Ober,  Mastersoni'ille,  Pa. 

Apple  Butter  Pie. — Take  1  pint  of  good  sweet  apple  butter, 
4  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  4  pints 
of  milk,  and  flavor  with  cinnamon.  Bake  like  custard  pies.  This 
will  make  4  pies. — Sister  Finnic  A.  Weaver,  Mound  City,  Mo. 

Dried  Apple  Pie. — Make  pie  dough,  using  5  cups  of  flour,  2 
cups  of  lard,  salt,  and  water.  Roll  a  crust,  put  over  it  dried  apples, 
mashed  and  seasoned  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  to  suit  taste.  Grate 
orange  peeling  over  the  top. — Sister  Annie  Young,  Mount  Joy,  Pa, 


222 


PIES 


Family  Apple  Pie. — Make  dough  the  same  as  for  other  pies, 
using  about  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  for  a  good-sized  pie.  Have  ready 
3  quarts  of  thinly-sliced  baking  apples.  Line  a  bread  pan  with  the 
dough  and  fill  half  full  of  the  apples.  Sprinkle  it  with  sugar 
enough  to  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste ;  then  put  in  a  thin  layer  of  the 
dough  and  finish  filling  to  the  top  with  the  apples  and  sweeten, 
after  which  place  on  the  cover  and  bake  an  hour.  Serve  warm  with 
sweetened  cream  or  fresh  butter. — Sister  Alary  J.  Huffman, 
Chiirchville,  Va. 

Banana  Pie. — Bake  a  crust ;  let  it  cool ;  slice  2  bananas  into 
the  crust.  Boil  1  cupful  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  until  thick.  Let  it  cool  and  then  pour 
over  the  bananas.  Beat  the  whites  of  egg-s  and  spread  over  the  top. 
Put  in  a  quick  oven  to  brown,  but  do  not  let  pie  get  hot  through. — 
Sister  F.  J.  Weimer,  Greenville,  Ohio. 

Bob  Andy  Pie. — Take  }i  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  mix  together  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  of  cloves  and  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon.  Beat  and 
add  whites  of  eggs.  Then  add  3  small  cups  of  milk.  Bake  like 
pumpkin  pie.  This  will  make  two  pies. — Sister  Laura  Gibson,  Vir- 
den,  III. 

Boston  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  T/2  cup  of  sour 
cream,  J/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  small  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  in  the  flour.  Bake  in  2  jelly  pans.  When  done,  as  soon  as 
cool,  split  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  spread  with  a  custard  made  as 
follows :  Take  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
^  starch,  1  egg,  sweeten  well,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  For  the  top  take  1 
square  of  chocolate,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  cream ;  melt  gently  over  boiling  water.  When  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  cool.  This  will  make  2 
pies. — Sister  Jas.  M.  Rozdand,  Hagerstoivn,  Md. 

Buttermilk  Custard. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  2  cups  of  butter- 


PIES 


223 


milk.  Beat  all  together  and  boil  5  minutes ;  flavor  with  lemon,  pour 
into  baked  crusts.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  spread  on  top  of  custard  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. — Sister  Joannah  Keedy,  Darlow,  Kans. 

Buttermilk  Pie. — Take  4  cups  of  buttermilk,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
2  eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  the  same  as  custard. — Sister  Margaret 
Henrick,  Kidder,  Mo. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie. — Bake  a  crust  for  one  pie.  For  the  filling 
take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Mix  all  together  and  then 
stir  in  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Put  over  the  fire  and  cook  until  thick. 
Flavor  with  a  little  vanilla.  For  frosting  use  the  white  of  the  egg 
beaten  with  a  little  sugar.  Cover  the  pie  with  this  and  return  to 
the  oven  to  brown. — Sister  Amanda  Widdozvs,  Hagerstown,  hid. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter.  Let  boil  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  the  filling 
is  prepared.  Filling :  One  cup  of  boiling  water,  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  flour,  and  \y2  cups 
of  sweet  milk.  Mix  the  boiling  water,  cornstarch,  or  flour,  and 
eggs  together,  and  add  to  the  milk  which  has  been  brought  to  a 
boil.  Add  the  filling  to  the  wax  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  then  put 
into  the  shells,  which  have  been  previously  baked.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  stiff,  put  on  the  pies  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. — 
Sister  Mary  Christner,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter  and  y2  cup  of  hot  water.  Boil  this  until  it 
scorches.  (This  is  very  important  as  it  gives  it  the  butter-scotch 
flavor.)  Make  a  custard  with  3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
2y2  cups  of  milk  and  2  eggs.  Pour  the  butter-scotch  into  the  cus- 
tard, stirring  continually  until  well  mixed.  Then  pour  into  two 
baked  crusts.  If  desired  the  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  beaten,  a 
little  sugar  added,  and  spread  over  top  of  pies.  This  adds  to  the 
appearance  of  the  pie  but  not  to  the  flavor. — Sister  Eflie  F.  Gnagey, 
West  Milton,  Ohio. 


224 


PIES 


Caramel  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  into  a  frying  pan  and  stir  constantly  until 
melted,  then  add  1  quart  of  milk  and  melt  again.  Have  ready  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  into 
the  milk,  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  the  previously  baked 
crusts  and  cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  a  lit- 
tle granulated  sugar. — Sister  Milo  H.  Geyer,  Syracuse,  hid. 

Caramel  Pie. — Take  5  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  damson  preserves,  seeded,  or  blackberry  jelly,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  and  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  vanilla  to  taste ;  beat  whites  in  last ; 
bake  with  1  crust. — Sister  Lula  0.  Trout,  Hollius,  Va. 

Caramel  Pie. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
1  egg,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Stir  till  thick,  then  take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  pour  into  open  crust  that  has  been  baked.  Use  the  white  of  the 
egg  for  icing.  This  makes  one  pie. — Sister  Ida  Younce,  Goslicn, 
hid. 

Caramel  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  damson  preserves,  *4  CUP  ot" 
butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  2  or  4  eggs.  Beat  all  together,  then 
pour  over  mixture  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla.   This  makes  2  pies. — Sister  Luverna  Sheets,  Mt.  Solou,  Va. 

Carrot  Custard. — Cook  carrots  until  tender,  then  mash  and 
rub  through  a  fruit  sieve.  To  2  cupfuls  of  carrot  add  ^2  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  into  it  till  smooth  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  then  add  3  pints  of  new  milk  and  4  well-beaten  eggs ;  put  in 
a  baking  dish  and  set  in  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  light  brown.  If  spice  is  desired,  half  a  spoonful 
of  ginger  and  cinnamon  may  be  added.  This  can  be  used  for  pies 
also,  and  is  a  good  substitute  for  pumpkin. — Sister  Emma  Whisler 
Click,  Tekoa,  Wash. 

Chess  Pie. — Take  4  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  ^3  cup  of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Bake  in  a  pie. 
— Sister  J.  M.  Maugus,  Roanoke,  Va. 


PIES 


225 


Cheese  Cakes. — Take  1  cupful  of  cocoanut,  1  cupful  of  milk 
curd,  1  cupful  of  cream,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  extract  of  rose.  Place  cream,  curd,  eggs,  sugar,  and 
cocoanut  on  the  stove  in  a  thick  saucepan,  and  when  thick  remove 
from  fire ;  add  the  extract  when  cold ;  fill  pie  pans  lined  with  crust 
and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  10  minutes. — Sister  Annie  Sell,  McKee 
Gap,  Pa. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  a  rich  pie  crust 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Grate  y'2  cup  of  chocolate,  place  in  a 
sauce  pan  with  1  cup  of  hot  water,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  as  much  water.  Mix 
well  and  cook  till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  into  the  pie  crust 
and  let  cool.   Make  a  meringue  of  the  two  whites  beaten  stiff  with 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  top  of  the  pie  and 
brown  lightly  in  oven. — Sister  Emma  S.  Critchfield,  Friedens,  Pa. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Mix  together  T/2  cup  grated  chocolate,  6 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  of  flour,  with  a  little  sweet  milk.  Stir 
this  into  2  cups  of  boiling  milk  till  thick.    Add  the  beaten  yolks  of 

3  eggs  and  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Bake  the  crust  first,  then  fill,  put 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  on  top  and  slightly  brown.  This  makes 
2  pies. — Sister  E.  J.  Longanecker,  East  Lewistown,  Ohio. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Cover  the  outside  of  a  pie  tin  with  a  rich 
pie  dough  and  bake  with  the  pan  upside  down.  Let  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  stir  in  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  1  tablespoonful  of  cocoa  or 
chocolate,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  few 
drops  of  vanilla  stirred  all  together  with  a  little  sweet  milk.  Pour 
into  the  baked  crust.  Beat  light  the  white  of  1  egg,  add  1  table- 
spoonful of  sugar  and  several  drops  of  lemon  extract.  Put  on  top 
and  set  pie  in  the  oven  until  a  light  brown. — Sister  Jennie  W ampler, 
Falks  Store,  Idaho. 


226 


PIES 


Cinnamon  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  dough,  sprinkle  cinna- 
mon over  it,  sugar,  flour  and  a  little  butter,  add  water.  Bake  with- 
out top  crust.  Nutmeg  may  be  used  instead  of  cinnamon  if  desired. 
— Sister  Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  hid. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — Bake  two  crusts  and  let  them  cool.  Take  2 
pints  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  flour,  and  3  eggs,  reserving 
the  whites  of  2  for  frosting.  Boil  together  in  a  double  kettle  until 
thick ;  then  put  one  layer  of  this  into  the  crust  and  sprinkle  it  well 
with  cocoanut.  Fill  in  another  layer,  then  cocoanut  again.  Then 
spread  with  frosting. — Sister  Victoria  Stoneburner,  Magley,  Ind. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — Grate  one  cocoanut,  add  3  eggs,  2  cups  of 
sugar  and  one  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  This 
is  sufficient  for  4  pies. — Sister  Katie  B.  Blanch,  Annville,  Pa. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie. — Bake  crust  when  convenient.  Take 
1  cup  milk  and  bring  to  boil.  Stir  together  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
cup  of  cream,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Add  to  the  boiling 
milk  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor,  add  y2 
cup  of  shredded  cocoanut  and  pour  into  the  previously  baked  crusts. 
Sprinkle  the  top  liberally  with  shredded  cocoanut. — Sister  Florence 
Neff,  Clovis,  N.  M. 

Cocoanut  Custard  Pie. — Take  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  \y2  pints  of  sweet  milk  and  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon.  Bake  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
sprinkle  y2  cupful  of  cocoanut  over  top  and  bake  until  done. — Sister 
Gertrude  Stoner,  Hutsonville,  III. 

Cream  Pie. — Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  2 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  well, 
then  add  1  cupful  of  rich  milk.  Pour  into  a  shallow  crust,  grate 
nutmeg  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  M.  Jane  Stauf- 
fer,  Polo,  III. 

Cream  Pie. — To  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  take  2  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  for  frost- 
ing, and  to  the  yolks  add  1  large  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  enough 
milk  to  beat  up  smoothly,  and  pour  into  the  boiling  milk.    Bake  the 


PIES 


227 


crust,  then  put  the  filling  into  the  crust  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites 
well  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
After  putting  on  frosting,  return  the  pie  to  the  oven  again  to  brown 
a  little.  This  is  for  one  pie. — Sister  Leah  S.  Gauby,  Washington, 
Kans. 

Cream  Pie. — Take  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  and  one  large  spoonful  of  sugar.  Mix  the  above 
ingredients  in  a  little  cold  milk,  then  stir  into  milk  (enough  for  one 
pie)  which  has  been  previously  heated.  Boil  all  until  thick  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  white  of  egg  light,  sweeten  and  cover 
top  of  pie.  Set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. — Sister  Ida  Brn- 
baker,  Conway,  Kans. 

Cream  Pie. — Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  and  1  teacupful  of  very  rich  sweet  cream.  Bake  with 
lower  crust  only. — Sister  Laura  E.  Goetze,  Saratoga,  Wyo. 

Cream  Pie. — Take  y2  cup  of  butter,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten 
and  stirred  in  lightly. — Sister  Esther  M.  Brown,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Fruit  Cream  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  crust.  Now 
put  in  good,  ripe  blackberries  or  peaches,  then  a -large  handful  of 
flour  (sprinkled  on  evenly  as  possible),  then  sugar  to  taste  and  pour 
over  it  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  wetting  the  flour  as  much  as  possible  so 
it  will  not  be  dry  when  done. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Raisin  Cream  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  good  sour  cream,  1  cup 
raisins,  without  seeds,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg.  Bake  with  2  crusts,  and 
this  will  make  2  pies. — Sister  Etta  Eckerle,  Lanark,  III. 

Crumb  Cake. — Sift  together  1  quart  of  flour  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls^of  baking  powder,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of  butter, 
rub  well  together.  Have  pie  tins  lined  with  pie  dough.  Stir  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  molasses  into  1  cup  of  cold  water,  dip  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  this  on  the  crust,  sprinkle  on  a  layer  of  crumbs,  alternating  with 
the  water  until  the  tin  is  full.  Bake  till  nicely  brown. — Sister  Sarah 
A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 


228 


PIES 


Grandma's  Crumb  Pie. — Take  y2  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  over 
y2  cup  of  flour,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Mix 
these  well  together,  then  take  out  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mixture  to 
put  on  top  of  the  pie ;  to  the  rest  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter,  and  put  them  into  the 
pie  crust,  sprinkling  the  2  tablespoonfuls  of  crumbs  on  top. — Sister 
Lucile  Royer,  Dallas  Center,  la. 

Old-fashioned  Crumb  Pie. — Take  }i  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  sugar ;  mix  sugar  and  butter  and  sufficient  flour  to  crumb  nicely ; 
after  it  is  crumbed  by  rubbing  together  with  the  hands,  take  about 
Yz  of  the  crumbs,  mix  the  remainder  with  a  cup  of  buttermilk  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon ;  mix  to  the  con- 
sistency of  a  thin  cake  dough  or  a  thick  batter ;  have  a  lower  crust 
prepared  in  2  pie  plates,  put  y2  of  the  dough  into  each  plate  and 
sprinkle  the  remaining  crumbs  on  top ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister 
F.  Alice  Davidson,  Centropolis,  Kans. 

Custard  Pie. — Take  8  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  5  eggs,  and  2y2  pints  of  milk,  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Mix  flour  and  sugar  together  before  adding  milk  and  eggs.  This 
will  make  two  pies. — Sister  Lydia  Flory,  South  English,  Iowa. 

Custard  Pie. — Beat  3  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
add  2  pints  of  sweet  milk,  and  sweeten  and  flavor  to  suit  taste.  Pour 
into  two  deep  crusts  and  bake. — Sister  LuTcrna  Sheets,  Mt.  Solon, 
Va. — In  making  custards  some  cooks  allow  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
to  each  egg  used.  But  where  flour  is  also  used  perhaps  more  sugar 
would  be  necessary. — Sister  Blanche  Lentz,  Elgin,  III. 

Boiled  Custard  Pie. — Take  the  yolks  of  4:  eggs,  4  pints  of 
sweet  milk  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Moisten  the  flour  with  a 
little  of  the  cold  milk,  add  the  eggs,  beat  well.  Let  the  milk  come  to 
a  boil  on  the  stove  then  stir  in  the  batter.  Boil,  stirring  to  keep 
from  burning,  remove  from  fire,  add  1  teaciipful  of  sugar,  and  flavor 
with  nutmeg.  Pour  custard  into  4  baked  crusts.  Beat  the  whites  to 
stiff  froth,  sweeten,  spread  over  the  tops  of  the  custards  and  put  in 


PIES 


229 


the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. — Sister  Eliza  A.  Weaver,  Hop- 
kins, Mo. 

Cheap  Custard  Pie. — Take  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
1  of  cornstarch  or  flour  and  1  pint  of  milk ;  flavor  to  taste.  This  is 
for  one  pie. — Sister  John  H.  Rinehart,  Union,  Ohio. 

A  Good  Milk  Pie. — Mix  well  2/z  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  the 
same  amount  of  flour.  Place  in  the  lower  pie  crust.  Add  1  pint 
good  creamery  milk,  but  do  not  stir,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
bake.  It  is  best  eaten  while  yet  warm. — Sister  Nettie  C.  Wey- 
bright,  Syracuse,  Ind. 

Cookie  Dough  Pie. — Take  1  lemon,  1  cupful  of  seeded  raisins 
chopped  and  mixed  with  the  lemon,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of 
water,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Boil  until  clear.  Dough 
part:  V2  cupful  of  sugar,  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  4  table 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  egg, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cookie  dough.  This  will 
make  2  pies.  Spread  out  on  plates  with  spoon ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  cold,  have  the  boiled  part  well  cooled  and  spread  on  top  of 
the  cookie. — Sister  J.  P.  Holsinger,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Date  Pie. — Take  3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  1  pint  of  milk.  Cook  1  pound  dates,  squeeze  through 
masher  and  mix  with  the  above.  Bake  with  one  crust. — Sister 
Edna  Eisenbise,  Lanark,  III. 

Elderberry  Pie. — Take  a  handful  of  elderberries,  put  in  a 
pie  crust,  then  take  1  teacupful  clabber  and  sour  cream,  \y2  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  flour  and  sugar  in 
cream,  put  on  top  lid  and  bake  till  done. — Sister  Luverna  Sheets, 
Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Foam  Pie. — Stir  (not  beat)  together  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1 
cup  of  butter,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Bake  with  lower  crust  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  beat  stiff  and  put  on 
top  of  the  pie.  This  makes  two  pies. — Sister  Grace  Roberts,  Fred- 
eric, la. 


230 


PIES 


Granger  Pie. — Make  a  pie  crust  and  line  4  pie  pans.  Put 
1  cupful  of  baking  syrup  in  a  bowl,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  1 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well  and  divide  in  the  4  pans.  Xow 
take  3  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  y2  cupful  of  lard,  rub  well 
and  put  over  the  top  of  the  syrup.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Sister  Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa. 

Fruit  Granger  Pie. — Stew  2  cups  of  raisins.  Thicken  with 
cornstarch  or  flour  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Xow  take  3  cups  of  flour, 
\y2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  shortening,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  mix  together.  Take  out  2/z  of  a  cup  of  crumbs  and  add 
enough  sweet  milk  to  roll.  Now  put  the  raisins  in  pie  crust.  Roll 
this  dough  the  size  of  the  pie,  put  on  top  of  raisins  and  sprinkle  re- 
maining crumbs  on  top.  This  makes  4  pies. — Sister  Minnie  Baker, 
Hollidaysburg,  Pa. 

Huckleberry  Pie. — Take  the  amount  of  huckleberries  de- 
sired for  1  pie,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  bake  between  2 
crusts. — Sister  Hattie  Kline,  Augusta,  W.  Va. 

Jam  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  jam,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  cream  and  5  eggs.  This  makes  3  pies. — Sister  Xora  B. 
Huff  or  d,  Rossville,  Ind. 

Jelly  Pie. — One  cup  of  any  kind  of  jelly,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
4  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter.  Cream,  sugar  and  butter,  beat  eggs  last 
and  mix  in  jelly  and  bake.  This  makes  3  pies. — Sister  Carrie  A. 
Smith,  St.  Peter,  Minn. 

Lemon  Custard. — Dough  part :  Take  y2  cup  of  sugar,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  walnut,  5  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  1  egg  and  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cookie  dough. 
Spread  this  in  pie  pans  with  a  knife  and  bake.  This  will  make  3 
pies.  Top  part:  Grate  the  rind  and  extract  juice  of  1  lemon.  Dis- 
solve 4  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  water,  add  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
and  last  the  grated  rind  of  lemon.    To  this  add  1  quart  of  boiling 


PIES 


231 


water,  and  cook.  Use  white  of  eggs  for  frosting. — Sister  Clara  Cus- 
ter, Windber,  Pa. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1 
cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  1  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  1  egg.  Cook  on  top  of  the  stove  and  pour  into  a  pie  tin  lined 
with  a  baked  crust.  Frost  with  the  white  of  the  egg  and  a  little 
sugar  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown  slightly. — Sister  Delia  Funderburg,  Surrey,  N.  Dak. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  6  eggs,  V/2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  4  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  flour,  3  cups  of  warm  water,  the 
graced  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  flour  and  sugar  together,  add  water, 
lemon  juice,  and  butter  (melted).  Mix  well  together  and  bake  in 
4  pie  plates  without  upper  crusts.  Add  6  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  to  a  froth,  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Spread  on  top  of  custards  and  brown. — Sister  J.  P. 
Bowman,  Jonesboro,  Tenn. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  1  large  lemon,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2/t,  cup  of 
flour,  2  cups  of  cold  water,  2  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Put  the  flour,  sugar  and  eggs  together,  then  add  the  juice, 
grated  rind  and  water,  and  butter  (melted).  Bake  in  a  deep  plate 
without  an  upper  crust. — Sister  D.  F.  Lepley,  Connellsville,  Pa. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  1  egg,  2  teacups  of  white  sugar,  2  tea- 
cups boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  small  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  and  2  lemons.  Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold 
water,  then  put  it  in  the  boiling  water.  Add  the  sugar  and  let  it 
boil  a  few  minutes.  Set  aside,  and  when  cool  add  the  butter,  egg, 
and  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons.  This  makes  3  small  pies. 
— Sister  Ella  Moore,  Chicago,  III. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  3  cups  of  water,  2]/2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs 
and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  together  and  let  cool. — Sister 
Anna  Showalter,  Lattasburg,  Ohio. 


232 


PIES 


Lemon  Pie. — Take  4  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  y2  cup  of  butter,  2  pints  of  water,  1  large  lemon,  grated 
(peel  before  grating)  ;  boil  the  custard  until  thick,  pour  into  2 
baked  crusts,  and  bake. — Sister  Dora  Studebaker,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1 
cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  2  cupfuls 
of  water.  Cover  with  a  crust.  This  makes  2  pies. — Sister  Hazel 
Fahmey  Fausnacht,  Twin  Falls,  Idaho. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  1  grated  lemon,  1  pint  water,  1  egg,  1 
cup  sugar,  1  cup  sugar  syrup,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  then  cook  2 
minutes.  Then  divide  in  5  ordinary-sized  pie  plates  lined  with  pas- 
try. Dough  for  top :  Take  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
soda,  ]/2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk,  flour  to  make  stiff,  roll  and 
cut  in  strips. — Sister  Anna  Martin,  Weaverland,  Pa. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
2  lemons,  2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
1  slice  of  bread  broken  fine  without  crust.  Mix  these  ingredients 
together,  put  in  4  pie  plates  lined  with  pastry  and  bake.  When  done, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  top  of  the  custards  and  return  to 
the  oven  to  brown  lightly. — Sister  Fannie  Wenger,  Mt.  Sidney,  Va. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs 
well  beaten,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons,  2y2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Let 
thicken  over  a  slow  fire,  pour  the  mixture  into  baked  crusts.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  4"  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Spread  on 
top  of  pies  and  place  in  the  oven  till  brown. — Sister  J.  E.  Price, 
Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Lemon  Tarts. — Take  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  good  sour  cream,  2 
cups  of  thick  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  \y2  cups 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  if  the  eggs  are  small.  Put  strips  of 
pie  crust  on  top  and  pie  crust  in  bottom. — Sister  Mattie  0.  Weaver, 
Hinkletown,  Pa. 


PIES 


233 


Lemon  Tarts.-— Line  dishes  with  dough  and  fill  with  1  cup 
of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful 
of  cornstarch,  and  1  lemon.  For  strips :  Take  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  ^4  cup  of  lard,  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
and  flour  enough  to  roll.  This  will  make  three  pies. — Sister  Hettie 
E.  Gibble,  Mechanicsburg,  Pa. 

Lemon  Tarts. — Top  part :  Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  cup  of  water,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix  these  ingredients 
together.  Lower  part:  Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon, 
or  1  tablespoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  soft  white  or 
light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1%  pints  of  water,  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Mix  these  ingredients  together.  Have  six 
pie  plates  lined  with  dough  and  put  the  lower  part  in  them.  Pour 
the  top  on  the  lower  part  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  will 
look  like  a  cake  when  done. — Sister  Harriet  Baugher,  Brodbecks, 
Pa. 

Mock  Lemon  or  Vinegar  Pie. — Stir  into  2  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and 
2  eggs.  Stir  until  all  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut  and  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Set  on  the 
stove  and  stir  to  prevent  lumps.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract,  remove  and  pour  into  two  baked  pie 
crusts.  This  is  enough  for  medium-sized  pie-tins. — Sister  Mary 
Sherfy,  Mont  Ida,  Kans. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  cranberries  and  1  cup  of 
raisins.  Chop  fine  and  add  ^4  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  water. — Sister 
Sarah  Deutschman,  Elwood,  III. 

Mince  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1 
cup  of  water,  J/2  cup  of  raisins,  T/2  cup  of  vinegar,  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  y2  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Cook  before  baking,  and  bake  with  2  crusts. — Sister  Sarah 
Blocker,  Pearl  City,  III. 


234 


PIES 


Countryside  Mince  Meat. — Take  5  pounds  of  lean  beef,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  salt  as  for  table  use,  boil  until  tender.  Have 
ready  2  gallons  of  pared  apples  (canned  ones  will  do),  2  pounds  of 
suet,  3  pounds  of  seedless  raisins  and  1  large  home-canned  citron. 
Chop  the  beef,  apples,  suet,  raisins  and  citron  very  fine.  Add  1 
quart  of  canned  cherries  or  seeded  grapes,  1  quart  of  dried  apples 
(stewed),  1  quart  of  sorghum,  1  quart  of  boiled  cider,  1  pint  of  cider 
vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  ground  cinnamon,  and  1  teaspoonful 
ground  cloves.  Mix  thoroughly,  sweeten  to  taste,  heat  until  scald- 
ing hot.  It  requires  great  care  to  prevent  scorching.  Seal  in  glass 
jars  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  make  pies,  thin  to  the 
proper  consistency  with  fruit  juices,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  fill- 
ing and  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each  pie.  Bake  between 
crusts. — Sister  Mary  P.  Ellenberger,  Turney,  Mo. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  1  cup  of 
chopped  apples,  T/2  cup  of  vinegar,  ^4  cup  .of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of 
broken  crackers  and  y2  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  cin- 
namon. Mix  the  above,  and  thin  with  water,  some  thinner  than 
mince  meat.  This  will  make  2  pies. — Sister  D.  M.  Miller,  Milledge- 
ville,  III. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  2  eggs, 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  For  2  pies;  bake  with  2  crusts. — 
Sister  N.  E.  Lilligh,  Mulberry  Grove,  III. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Take  1  large  cup  of  sugar,  1  of  sour 
cream,  J/2  cup  bread  crumbs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1 
of  cloves  (ground),  and  y2  cup  of  raisins  or  jam.  Bake  with  lower 
crust  only.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  and  spread  on  the  top  of  pie 
as  soon  as  taken,  from  oven.  This  makes  2  pies. — Sister  Mary  E. 
Teeter,  Bells,  Term. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  vinegar, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  table- 


PIES 


235 


spoonful  of  cornstarch,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  y>  teaspoonful 
of  cloves,  y2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  and  2  eggs.  Bake  with  2 
crusts. — Sister  Nettie  Stine,  Leaf  River,  III. 

Montgomery  Pies. — Top  Part :  Take  3  eggs,  2T/2  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  %  cup  of  lard  and  butter,  \y2  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
about  Zy2  cups  of  flour  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Lower  Part:  Grate  1  lemon  and  add  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  1  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  1  cup 
of  molasses ;  beat  again  and  add  1  pint  of  cold  water.  Divide  this 
in  5  large  crusts,  then  spread  top  part  over  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  They  are  fine. — Sister  Nora  E.  Zimmerman,  Big  Timber, 
Mont. 

Molasses  Pie. — Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3 
eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  1  lemon.  Beat  all  to- 
gether and  bake  in  pastry  with  a  lower  crust  and  strips  of  the  pastry 
over  the  top,  same  as  tarts.  In  the  absence  of  the  lemon  leave  out 
the  sugar  also. — Sister  J.  A.  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 

Orange  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  juice  of  2  oranges,  a 
little  salt,  and  2  cups  of  milk.  Put  on  stove  to  get  warm  before 
putting  into  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  spread  over 
pie  when  baked  and  put  back  in  oven  to  brown.  This  makes  2  pies. 
— Sister  Stella  A.  P arret,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

Orange  Pie. — Take  the  juice  and  y>  the  grated  rind  of  1 
orange,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
Heat  these  together,  then  add  1  cup  of  cream  that  has  been  boiled. 
Let  cool,  then  add  last  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
This  makes  1  pie. — Sister  Susan  C.  Ressler,  Altoona,  Pa. 

Peach  Pie. — Stew  the  peaches  before  placing  them  in  crusts. 
For  6  pies,  take  y2  gallon  of  peaches,  1  teacupful  of  sugar  and  2 
nutmegs  to  season.  Make  the  pie  crust  short,  put  in  fruit,  cover 
with  upper  crust  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Bettie  E.  French, 
Shanks,  W.  Va. 


236 


PIES 


Peach  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  puff  paste,  with  pared 
peaches  in  halves  or  quarters  well  covered  with  sugar.  Put  on  an 
upper  crust  and  bake,  or  leave  off  the  upper  crust  and  make  a  mer- 
ingue of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  on  pie  after  it  is  baked,  re- 
turn to  oven  and  brown, — Sister  Sallie  Brubaker,  Beryl,  Pa. 

Pineapple  Pie. — Take  1  grated  pineapple,  its  weight  in  sugar, 
y2  its  weight  in  butter,  1  cup  of  cream,  and  5  eggs.  Beat  butter  to 
a  creamy  froth,  add  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  and  continue  to  beat 
until  very  light.  Add  the  cream  and  pineapple,  and  last  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  with  an  under  crust.  Serve 
cold. — Sister  Emma-M.  Zug,  Lebanon,  Pa. 

Pineapple  Pie. — Take  1  large  pineapple,  and  grate  or  grind. 
Add  to  this  3  eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  sugar 
and  y2  cup  of  butter.  Bake  with  lower  crust.  This  makes  2  pies. 
— Sister  Esther  M.  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Pineapple  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust,  sprinkle  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  over  bottom,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  grated 
pineapple,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  water  if  necessary.  Cover  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. — Sister  L.  U.  Kr eider,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Plum  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  ordinary  pie  crust,  dust  with 
a  little  flour  and  about  half  the  amount  of  sugar  to  be  used.  Fill 
with  a  layer  of  plums,  flour  again  and  add  the  remainder  of  the 
sugar.  Then  cover  with  jelly-cake  batter,  spread  quite  thin,  and  it  is 
ready  to  bake.  This  makes  a  delicious  pie  and  is  best  served  cold. 
Other  sour  fruits  may  be  used  but  plums  or  cranberries  are  prefer- 
able.— Sister  Alice  Funderburg,  Gildford,  Mont. 

Potato  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust  same  as  for  other 
pies.  Slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  put  in  a  little  hot  water  and  bake  until 
done.  Serve  with  lamb  or  veal  stew  gravy. — Sister  L.  A.  Eshelman, 
Los  Angeles,  Cat. 

Potato  Pie. — Take  1  cup  of  well-mashed  potatoes,  V/2  cups 
of  sweet  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  3 


PIES 


237 


well-beaten  eggs,  season  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  to  taste.  Bake 
same  as  custard  pie.  Serve  hot  with  sweet  cream  flavored  with 
vanilla.  This  is  delicious.  This  will  make  1  pie. — Sister  Annie 
Bolender,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Potato  Pie. — Line  a  pudding  dish  with  good  pie  paste.  Pare 
about  four  potatoes,  slice  them  into  the  pudding  dish,  add  parsley, 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Bake  about  %  hour.  Then  heat  milk  and 
butter  to  pour  over  this  when  you  eat  it. — Sister  Jos.  H.  Johnson, 
Royersford,  Pa. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. — Stew  3  cupfuls  of  sliced  sweet  potatoes  in 
1  quart  of  water.  When  done,  add  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2/z  cup  of 
butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  For  the  dough  take  a 
scant  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  soda.  Sift,  work 
in  a  small  cup  of  lard  and  moisten  with  \2/$  cups  of  buttermilk. 
Knead  2  minutes.  Roll  out  2/z  of  it  to  line  a  deep  3-quart  pudding 
dish  or  baking  pan ;  put  in  the  potatoes  and  the  water  in  which  they 
were  stewed  with  the  seasoning.  Roll  out  remainder  of  dough  and 
cover,  being  careful  to  have  the  edges  pressed  together.  Bake  quick- 
ly to  light  brown  and  serve  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  baked. — Sister 
Annie  Pitzer,  Cordell,  Okla. 

Sliced  Sweet  Potato  Pie. — Boil  the  potatoes  until  done ;  peel, 
slice  and  place  in  a  deep  pan  lined  with  dough.  Fill  the  pan  with 
rich  milk  or  cream,  sugar  enough  to  make  it  good  and  sweet,  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake. 
Serve  while  hot. — Sister  Lizena  Hylton,  McComb,  Mo. 

Prune  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  puff  paste ;  fill  with  seeded 
prunes  well  covered  with  sugar ;  put  on  an  upper  crust  of  the  paste 
and  bake  quickly. — Sister  Sallie  Brubaker,  Beryl,  Pa. 

Kentucky  Pudding  Pie. — Take  4  eggs,  1  quart  of  sweet 
cream  and  milk,  1  teacupful  of  sugar,  J/2  teacupful  of  melted  butter, 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  bake  without  an 
upper  crust. — Sister  M.  Kate  Crist,  Timberville,  Va. 


238 


PIES 


Pumpkin  Pie. — Boil  a  quantity  of  pumpkin  until  quite  soft, 
and  press  through  a  sieve  to  make  it  fine  and  smooth.  Take  1  quart 
of  the  fine  pumpkin  to  make  4  large  custards.  Add  to  it  the  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  or  other 
spices  as  desired.  Add  to  this  4  pints  of  sweet  milk,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Pour  the  custard  into  4  pie 
pans  lined  with  the  pie  dough  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Mary 
Elisabeth  Reploglc,  Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 

Pumpkin  Pies  (Made  of  Canned  Pumpkin). — Take  1  can  of 
pumpkin,  and  5  eggs  well  beaten  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Put  all  to- 
gether and  add  nutmeg,  allspice,  or  any  preferred  seasoning.  Then 
add  enough  milk  to  make  five  pies. — Sister  Catharine  Allan,  York, 
N.  Dak. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — For  each  pie  wanted  take  2  eggs  and  beat ; 
then  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  as  much  sugar  as  is  liked  and 
mix  together.  Add  also  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  pumpkin  and  1 
pint  of  sweet  milk.  Flavor  with  ground  allspice. — Sister  L.  Clanin, 
Hicksville,  Wash. 

Grated  Pumpkin  Pie. — To  1  quart  of  grated  pumpkin  add  6 
eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  ginger 
and  cinnamon  to  suit  taste.  Mix  all  together  and  add  enough  sweet 
milk  to  fill  pie  crusts,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  nice  brown. 
This  will  make  two  large  pies,  or  three  small  ones. — Sister  Lizzie 
A.  D linger,  Mount  Carroll,  III. 

Raspberry  Pie. — Pick  1  pint  of  berries  clean,  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Line  a  greased  pie  tin  with  pie  paste,  put  in  prepared  berries, 
dredge  with  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  nearly  y2  cup  of  sugar  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  water.  Moisten  edges,  cover  pie  with  a  crust, 
press  edges  with  hands.    Bake. — Sister  Effie  Gnagey,  Fruita,  Colo. 

Rhubarb  Custard. — Pour  boiling  water  over  2  teacupfuls  of 
chopped  rhubarb,  drain  off  the  water  after  4  or  5  minutes.  Mix 
with  rhubarb,  1  teacupful  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  moistening  the  whole  with  3 


PIES 


239 


tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Bake  with  lower  crust  only.  Make  a  mer- 
ingue of  the  white  of  the  egg  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown. — 
Sister  Emma  Detweiler,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Rhubarb  Custard. — Take  1  cup  of  stewed  rhubarb,  1  cup  of 
white  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with 
lemon  extract.  Beat  this  mixture  thoroughly  and  bake  in  1  crust. 
Frost  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. — Sister  Sue  Sisler,  Dallas 
Center,  Iowa. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Peel  rhubarb  and  cut  very  fine,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  and  let  stand  awhile.  Take  1  teacupful  of  sugar  to  1 
pie.  Put  half  the  sugar  on  the  bottom  crust  with  some  flour,  put  in 
the  rhubarb  from  which  the  water  has  been  drained,  and  cover  with 
a  little  more  flour  and  the  remainder  of  the  sugar. — Sister  J.  W. 
Brooks,  Independence,  Oregon. 

Rich  Man's  Pie. — Take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
spread  on  a  crust,  spread  over  top  of  butter  y2  cup  of  sugar,  grate 
on  a  little  nutmeg,  then  spread  on  top  of  all  2  'heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour.  Now  set  the  pie  in  the  oven  and  pour  over  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  it  full  enough,  and  bake.  Bake  with  lower  crust  only. 
Put  the  ingredients  in  just  as  this  is  written,  beginning  with  butter 
and  ending  with  milk.  It  will  make  a  queer-looking  pie  to  those 
who  have  never  seen  it,  but  will  taste  far  better  than  it  looks.  Try 
it. — Sister  Mary  E.  Crofford,  Martinsburg,  Pa. 

Smearcase  Pie. — Work  your  smearcase  fine  and  salt  to  suit 
the  taste.  .  For  each  pie  take  1  cup  of  the  cheese,  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Thin  the  mixture  with 
sour  cream.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  and  bake  without 
upper  crust. — Sister  Anna  Wise,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Squash  Pie. — Take  1  pint  of  squash,  boiled  dry,  1  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  spices  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  1  pint  of  sweet  milk.  This  makes  2  pies. — Sister 
J.  J.  Stowe,  Girard,  III. 


240 


PIES 


Squash  for  Pies. — Cut  a  squash  in  pieces,  remove  the  seeds, 
pare  the  same  as  for  pumpkin,  put  in  a  kettle  on  the  stove  and  stew 
until  tender.  When  done,  rub  through  a  fruit  sieve.  For  each  pie, 
add  1  egg,  y2  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to  taste  ;  add  milk  to  make  as  thin  as  for 
pumpkin.  A  little  molasses  adds  very  much  to  the  flavor.  Beat  the 
eggs  before  mixing  with  the  squash. — Sister  Mary  Stutsman,  Mus- 
catine, Iowa. 

Syrup  Pie. — For  2  pies.  Beat  3  eggs  very  light,  add  2  cups 
of  syrup,  1  cup  of  milk  or  water  and  1  rounding  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Flavor  to  taste.  Bake  without  upper  crust. — Sister 
J.  D.  Teeter,  Rex,  Fla. 

Tailor  Pie. — Take  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  ]/2 
cup  of  butter,  1  large  cup  of  sweet  cream  seasoned  with  nutmeg. 
Beat  well  together  and  bake  in  crusts.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
very  light  and  add  ]/2  cup  of  sugar.  When  the  pies  are  done, 
spread  the  beaten  whites  over  the  top,  and  put  in  oven .  to  brown. 
This  makes  3  pies. — Sister  Elsie  Huff,  Ft.  Defiance,  Fa. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. — Peel  and  slice  9  pounds  of  green  to- 
matoes, add  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  1  sliced  lemon ;  cook  until  soft. 
Put  in  glass  cans  and  it  will  keep  until  wanted.  Make  pies  with 
upper  and  lower  crusts. — Sister  Lulu  O.  Trout,  Hollins,  Va. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. — Slice  green  tomatoes  very  thin  and  put 
into  a  crust.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  about  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  a  little  flour,  and  spice  to  taste.  Bake  with  2  crusts. — 
Sister  Laura  E.  Goetze,  Saratoga,  Wyo. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. — Take  1  pint  of  green  tomatoes  pared 
and  sliced ;  line  a  pie  pan  with  pie  paste  and  put  in  the  tomatoes. 
Then  sprinkle  over  them  5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour;  season  with  allspice,  cloves, 
and  cinnamon.  Put  on  top  crust  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
—Sister  Sue  Wire,  Acton,  Okla. 

Tart  Pies.— Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cap  of 
sour  cream,  1  cup  of  thick  milk,  2  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 


PIES 


241 


cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves  to  taste  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — 
Sister  Lottie  Wine,  Enders,  Nebr. 

Transparent  Pie. — Take  3  eggs,  y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the 
yolks.  Stir  all  together,  add  flavoring  and  milk.  Bake  in  2  crusts. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  put  on  top  and  brown  slightly. — Sister 
Sara  Reese  Eby,  West  Elkton,  Ohio. 

Transparent  Pie. — Take  3  eggs,  ]/2  glass  of  cream,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  essence,  1  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups  of  sugar. 
This  makes  2  pies. — Sister  Nora  B.  Hufford,  Rossville,  Ind. 

Vinegar  Pie. — Take  1  egg,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
1  teacupful  of  sugar.  Beat  all  well  together,  then  add  vinegar  to 
make  it  taste  real  sharp,  and  1  cup  of  cold  water ;  flavor  with  lemon 
essence  and  bake  with  2  crusts. — Sister  Cora  B.  Byer,  Albert  City, 
Iowa. 

Vinegar  Pie. — Take  1  cup  sorghum,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  and  4  cups  of  water.  Bake  with  under- 
crust  and  strips  of  crust  on  top.  This  makes  4  pies. — Sister  Stella 
G.  Turner,  Iliff,  Colo. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie. — Prepare  a  nice,  crisp  pie  crust,  prick 
well  with  a  fork  to  prevent  puffing,  bake  quickly  and  put  aside  to 
cool.  Mix  iy2  cups  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  at  least  24  hours  old, 
with  y2  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  all  of  which  has  been  previously 
thoroughly  chilled,  and  in  a  cold  place  beat  it  with  a  spoon,  egg  or 
cream  beater,  until  it  stands  up  stiff,  and  fine.  Then  add  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon  extract  and  pour  the  cream  into  the  cold  crust. — 
Sister  hula  Goshorn,  Ladoga,  Ind. 


242 

^  PIES 


PIES 


243 


244 


PIES 


A  good  many  things  enter  into  the  art  of  successful  cake  mak- 
ing and  one  can  hardly  hope  for  invariable  success  without  having 
spent  more  or %  less  time  in  the  school  of  experience.  All  ingredi- 
ents should  be  fresh  and  pure.  Flavorings  and  the  process  of  bak- 
ing will  not  be  able  to  destroy  the  natural  effects  of  rancid  butter, 
stale  eggs,  etc.  The  mixing  bowl,  measuring  cup,  spoon,  beater 
and  all  ingredients  should  be  collected  before  the  mixing  begins.  In 
cold  weather  it  will  aid  the  mixing  process  greatly  if  the  bowl  is 
warmed  and  the  spoon  scalded  with  boiling  water.  The  eggs,  how- 
ever, should  be  perfectly  cold.  Lay  them  in  the  refrigerator  some 
time  before  you  are  ready  to  make  the  cake,  or  drop  them  into  cold 
water.  The  whites  will  then  whip  up  much  more  readily  and  per- 
fectly. A  pinch  of  salt  will  also  aid  in  this.  The  general  order 
for  mixing  the  ordinary  cup  cake  is :  Cream  shortening  and  sugar 
together  (if  these  ingredients  are  cold  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water  will  hasten  the  creaming,  and  afterward  an  equal  amount  of 
liquid  may  be  deducted  from  that  called  for  in  the  recipe)  ;  add 
yolks  and  beat  well;  then  add  flour  and  milk  alternately  and  lastly 
the  beaten  whites  which  should  be  folded  in.  The  flour  should  be 
sifted  before  measuring  and  again  with  the  baking  powder,  it  the 
latter  is  used.  It  is  said  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  added  to  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar  before  any  liquid  is  added  will  prevent 
curdling.-  Line  the  pans  with  greased  paper,  using  two  or  three 
layers  for  pound  cakes  and  fruit  cakes.  If  you  are  not  an  adept  at 
judging  the  temperature  of  an  oven  with  the  hand,  test  it  with  a 
small  amount  of  the  prepared  batter.  Rich  loaf  cakes  and  thick  bat- 
ters should  be  baked  slowly;  layer  cakes,  sponge  cakes  and  most 
little  cakes  require  a  quick  oven.  A  cake  is  done  when  it  shrinks 
from  the  pan  and  stops  hissing.    When  taken  from  the  oven  the 

245 


246 


CAKES 


pan  should  be  set  for  a  few  minutes  on  the  stove  hearth  or  shelf 
where  you  can  barely  hold  your  hand.  A  very  light,  delicate  cake 
will  fall  if  cooled  too  quickly  or  shaken  while  hot. 

Bow  Knots. — Beat  2  eggs,  add  ^  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  cream  and  melted  butter,  }i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  y2 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  %  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
mace,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  into  pieces  the 
shape  of  a  pencil ;  tie  in  bow  knots.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  dust  with 
powdered  sugar. — Sister  Zura  L.  Peck,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Crulls. — Four  good-sized  potatoes  cooked  and  mashed  with- 
out cream,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1^  cups  of  sugar  and  1  tea- 
spoonful of  nutmeg.  Stir  this  together,  then  add  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  2  eggs  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Use  flour  enough 
for  a  soft  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Lizzie 
Angle,  Bringhurst,  Ind. 

Maryland  Crullers. — Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
lard,  iy2  pints  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar  and  enough  flour  to  roll  nicely.  Cut,  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard  to  which  has  been  added  1  teaspoonful  of  vinegar. — Sister 
A.  Roop  Shaw,  Westminster,  Md. 

Crullers. — Take  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk, 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  or  lard,  and  4  cups  of  flour. — Sister  Amanda  Brown, 
Whitewater,  Ind. 

Doughnuts. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  V/2  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
5  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  enough  flour  to  mix  soft.  Bake  in  hot  lard,  and  roll  in  soft 
"A"  sugar  when  taken  from  lard,  if  desired  to  give  snowy  appear- 
ance.— Sister  Charles  Schubert,  Alvada,  Ohio. 

Doughnuts. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Flour  to  roll. — Sister  Ina  Herbert,  Fostoria,  Ohio. 

Doughnuts. — Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar 
dissolved  in  the  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard,  3  pints  of 


CAKES 


247 


flour,  3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
nutmeg  to  flavor.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Annie  Sell,  McKee  Gap, 
Pa. 

Doughnuts. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  2/z  cup  of  milk,  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll,  salt  and  nut- 
meg.   Fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Lizzie  M.  Lichty,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Doughnuts. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  1  egg  well  beaten  together.  Grate  half  a  nutmeg  into  this,  and 
add  1  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  2  cups  of 
flour.  Add  as  much  more  flour  as  may  be  needed  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Do  not  roll,  but  pat  out  with  the  hands.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — 
Sister  Lillus  E.  Mahan,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

Doughnuts. — Take  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  and  3  cups  of  unsifted 
flour,  sifted  with  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  Yz  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  sufficient  flour  to  roll 
out.  Fry  in  lard,  and  roll  in  sugar  while  warm. — Sister  Allie  M. 
Jones,  Arcanum,  Ohio. 

Fried  Cakes  or  Doughnuts. — Take  ^  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
sweet  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  2  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  about  twice  as  thick  as  pie  dough  and  cut  in  any 
shape  desired.  Drop  the  cakes  one  by  one  into  boiling  lard  in  which 
put  several  dried  apple  snitz  to  keep  it  from  getting  too  brown. — 
Sister  Mary  Snively,  Lanark,  III. 

Corn  Meal  Doughnuts. — Take  2  cups  of  sifted  corn  meal,  1 
cup  of  white  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sour  or  buttermilk,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  milk.  Drop  from  a  spoon  into  hot  lard.  Fry  brown 
on  both  sides  and  serve  warm  with  molasses. — Sister  Mary  Hilder- 
brand,  Walkerton,  Lid. 


248 


CAKES 


Excellent  Doughnuts. — Mix,  by  sifting  2  or  3  times,  2  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  1  quart  of  flour.  Beat  2 
eggs  with  1  coffeecup  of  sugar,  adding  a  teacupful  of  new  milk  (or 
better  if  at  hand,  half  milk  and  half  cream),  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Mix  all  together,  reserving  a  little  flour  for  rolling  out.  Fry  in  hot 
lard,  and  when  cold  roll  in  powdered  sugar. — Sister  Flora  Weigle, 
Shannon,  III, 

Fastnacht  Cakes. — Take  1  egg,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
lard,  1}X2  pints  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  nicely.  Cut,  and  bake  in 
boiling  lard. — Sister  Amy  Roop  Shaw,  Westminster,  Md. 

Fat  Cakes. — Take  3  tincupfuls  of  sweet  cream,  1  tincupful 
of  sour  cream,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Use  8  tincupfuls  of  flour,  or 
enough  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  handle  without  sticking  to 
the  fingers.  Then  roll  out  in  squares  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Cut 
dough  with  cake  cutter,  using  something  round  to  cut  holes  in  the 
middle  of  the  round  cakes.  Make  diamond-shaped  holes  in  the 
square  cakes. — Sister  Alary  Murray,  Laurel  Hill,  Pa. 

Funnel  Cakes. — Take  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  3  pints  of  flour, 
2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat 
the  milk  in  a  granite  pan  until  a  skin  is  formed  on  it.  Then  stir  it 
into  the  sifted  flour,  which  you  have  in  a  gallon  crock  and  add  the 
eggs  and  the  soda.  Beat  until  very  light.  Have  3  pints  of  hot  lard 
in  a  round-bottomed  iron  kettle  on  the  stove.  Now  put  3  or  4  large 
spoonfuls  of  batter  into  a  funnel,  holding  the  front  finger  of  the 
left  hand  over  the  small  hole.  Then  remove  the  finger,  holding  the 
funnel  with  the  right  hand  over  the  hot  lard  and  move  the  funnel 
slowly  around  in  rings,  till  the  batter  has  all  run  out.  Be  careful 
not  to  let  the  rings  of  batter  cross  each  other.  When  the  rings  rise 
in  the  hot  grease,  turn  with  a  flesh  fork  to  brown  on  the  other  side. 
Use  your  judgment  as  to  when  to  remove  from  the  grease.  They 
are  fine  served  with  syrup.  If  you  do  not  get  them  coiled  just  right 
the  first  time,  try  again.   We  used  to  make  gallons  of  these  funnel 


CAKES 


249 


cakes  in  Pennsylvania  for  harvest  hands,  for  a  nine  o'clock  piece. 
The  batter  ought  to  be  just  a  little  thicker  than  for  pancake  batter ; 
just  so  it  runs  out  nicely.  Some  like  a  funnel  with  a  one-inch  hole, 
so  that  the  cakes  will  be  large  and  round. — Sister  Katie  E.  Keller, 
Enterprise,  Mont. 

Raised  Doughnuts. — Take  ll/2  cups  of  bread  sponge,  add  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  melted  lard,  melted  butter,  and  sugar,  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  with  less  flour  than  for  bread.  Roll  and  cut  in 
strips,  twist  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Sister  Grace  Hileman  Miller, 
Lordsburg,  Cal, 

Snow  Balls. — Take  1  cup  of  cream,  2  eggs  beaten  well  and 
stirred  in  with  the  cream,  and  lard  about  the  size  of  an  egg.  Rub 
the  lard  in  the  flour  as  for  pie  dough,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Make 
the  dough  about  as  stiff  as  pie  dough.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  in 
pieces  about  4  or  5  inches  square,  then  cut  with  a  dough  cutter,  and 
tangle.  Drop  into  hot  lard  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  while  warm. — Sister  D.  B.  Puterbaugh,  Lanark,  III. 

Snow  Ball. — Break  2  or  more  eggs  in  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough,  work  smooth  and  roll  out  a  portion  like  pie  dough, 
only  much  thinner.  Now  cut  in  strips,  about  a  finger's  width,  but  do 
not  cut  out  to  the  edge  within  an  inch.  Keep  the  whole  joined  to- 
gether, lay  aside  and  prepare  all  the  dough  the  same  way ;  let  dry  a 
little.  Have  ready  hot  lard  or  grease  in  a  shallow  frying  kettle. 
Now  with  both  hands  gather  up  one  piece  at  a  time  and  lay  in  the 
hot  grease.  Have  ready  two  forks,  one  in  each  hand,  and  stir  and 
shape  as  crinkled  as  you  can  without  breaking,  then  turn  quickly, 
fry  till  done,  or  light  yellow  (it  will  take  but  a  few  seconds  to  fry 
one  piece),  lift  out  and  lay  on  a  plate  and  sprinkle  each  piece  with 
powdered  sugar.  Proceed  with  all  in  the  same  way.  When  done  the 
mass  should  be  high  and  look  like  a  bunch  of  tangled  ribbons.  It  is 
good  to  the  taste,  and  also  for  a  novelty  on  special  occasions,  for 
instance,  a  wedding. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 


250 


CAKES 


Trifles. — Work  1  beaten  egg  and  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in- 
to as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  as  thin  as  a  silver 
dollar,  and  cut  into  small  cakes.  Drop  a  few  at  a  time  into  hot  lard, 
and  cook  till  they  rise  to  the  surface.  Turn  over,  remove  with  skim- 
mer and  drain. — Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Cheese  Straws. — A  dainty  dish  and  a  good  way  to  use  left- 
over pie  crust :  Roll  out  the  pastry  to  %  inch  in  thickness,  sprinkle 
thickly  y2  of  it  with  grated  cheese  and  a  dash  of  salt,  fold  over  the 
other  half,  press  the  edges  together,  roll  out,  and  sprinkle  with 
cheese  as  before.  Fold  again,  and  roll  inch  thick.  Cut  into  strips 
as  straw-like  as  possible  and  bake  about  8  minutes.  Make  some  of 
the  strips  in  rings  and  bake,  then  place  the  straws  through  them  and 
arrange  on  a  plate  to  serve. — Sister  Evelyn  T.  Keiser,  Lordsburg, 
Cal. 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches. — Spread  slices  of  thinly-cut 
graham  bread  with  peanut  butter,  and  then  with  chopped  dates  or 
figs.  Finely-minced  celery  is  excellent  used  in  the  same  manner. — 
Sister  Tuda  Haines,  North  Manchester,  Ind. 

Table  Dainties. — Take  1  quart  flour  mixed  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  an  even  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  cup  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed.  Wet  with  milk  and  roll  out  as  for  biscuit. 
Take  a  small  egg,  mix  with  brown  sugar  and  spread  over  dough  like 
jelly  roll.  Roll  and  slice  about  an  inch  thick.  Spread  more  of  the 
mixture  over  slices  and  sprinkle  currants  over  this.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Sister  C.  D.  Bonsack,  Union  Bridge,  Md\ 

Butter  Scotches. — Take  1  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  2 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  6  ounces  of  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda, 
1  grated  cocoanut  and  flour  to  make  stiff. — Sister  Mary  /.  Long, 
Mechanicsbu rg,  Pa. 

Cracker  Jacks. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  and  enough  water  to  cover  the  sugar.  Boil  till  it  will  roll 
in  a  ball  by  putting  it  in  water.  Have  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  into  which  beat  the  syrup.    Take  a  teacup  full  of 


CAKES 


251 


any  kind  of  nuts  desired  (black  walnuts  are  good),  roll  and  stir  into 
the  above.  Spread  on  the  top  of  crackers  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
brown  lightly. — Sister  I.  W.  Miller,  Hereford,  Tex. 

Cocoanut  Puffs. — Take  2  cups  of  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  of 
powdered  or  fine  granulated  sugar,  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  or  cornstarch.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  quickly. — Sister  Ella  Eckerle,  Chicago,  III. 

Cream  Puffs. — Take  6  ounces  of  flour,  34  pound  of  butter,  T/2 
pint  of  hot  water,  and  5  eggs.  Boil  butter  and  water  together  and 
stir  in  flour  while  boiling.  When  cool,  stir  the  well-beaten  eggs 
in  and  beat  all  well,  the  same  as  pound  cake.  Drop  on  tins  and  rub 
tops  of  cakes  with  1  egg  beaten.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Cream  part : 
y2  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  cup  flour.  Boil 
the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  eggs  and  flour,  stirring  all  till  boiled.  Fla- 
vor with  vanilla.  Open  the  puff  at  one  side  and  put  the  cream  in. 
— Sister  Amy  Roop  Shaw,  Westminster,  Md. 

Cream  Puffs.— Add  y2  cup  of  butter  to  1  of  hot  water,  and 
while  boiling  stir  in  1  cup  of  flour.  When  cool  stir  in  3  eggs,  1  at 
a  time,  without  previous  beating.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  buttered 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  till  a  light  brown.  When  done, 
each  one  will  be  hollow.  Fill  with^whipped  cream,  or  cornstarch 
filling  flavored  with  extract  or  grated  chocolate.  This  amount 
makes  18  puffs. — Sister  Mary  L.  Tannreuther,  Waterloo,  Iowa. 

Cream  Puffs. — Take  1  cup  of  hot  water  and  y2  cup  of  but- 
ter. Boil  water  and  butter  together  and  stir  in  1  cup  of  flour  while 
boiling.  When  cold  add  3  eggs  not  previously  beaten.  Mix  well 
and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty-five  minutes.  Don't  open  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes  at  the 
first.  You  can  use  whipped  cream  or  the  following  for  a  filling: 
One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  and  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Open 
the  puffs  and  insert  filling. — Sister  Viola  Sheeler,  Kingsley,  la. 


252 


CAKES 


Cookies. — Take  4  eggs,  iy2  cups  of  white  sugar,  1  cup  of  but- 
ter, 4  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  all  together  with  the  hand.-  Roll  out  as  soft  as  possible.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.    Flavor  to  taste. — Sister  Jennie  A.  Stephens,  Cor* 

vallis,  Oregon. 

Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
1  cup  of  half  butter  and  half  lard,  a  little  lemon  flavoring,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  out  thin.   Bake  in  a  hot  oven.   They  will  keep  good  for  weeks. 

— Sister  Mary  A.  Himes,  McCune,  Kans. 

Boston  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of  butter, 
y2  cup  of  lard,  2  eggs,  twelve  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
cup  of  raisins  and  2  cups  of  oatmeal  added  last  with  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  with  a  spoon  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  greased  pan  like 
cookies. — Sister  Geo.  Wrightsnian,  Virden,  III. 

Boston  Cookies. — Cream  together  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup 
of  lard,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  To  this  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  cups 
of  flour,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  and  last  of  all  2  cups  of  rolled 
oats.  This  makes  a  very  stiff  dough.  Take  a  small  spoon  and 
spread  in  small  cakes  in  a  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This 
does  not  make  very  pretty  cakes,  but  they  are  very  palatable  if  let 
set  a  couple  of  days  before  using. — Sister  D.  H.  Brubaker,  Here- 
ford, Tex. 

Cake  Squares. — Measure  2  cups  of  sifted  pastry  flour,  sift- 
ing well,  add  1  rounding  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  sift  three 
times  and  set  to  one  side.  Cream  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  >4 
cup  of  butter.  Then  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  y2 
cup  of  milk;  also  add  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  two-inch 
square  cake  pans  thirty  or  thirty-five  minutes.  Put  plain  icing  in  a 
bowl  over  the  teakettle  and  dip  the  squares  into  it. — Sister  Bertha 
Allan,  York,  N.  Dak. 


CAKES 


253 


Cream  Cookies  (Within  Everyone's  Reach). — Take  3  cups 
of  good  sour  cream,  3  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  cups  of  white  sugar,  3 
small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  and  any  kind  of  flavoring  desired  and 
flour  enough  for  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  and  sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar. — Sister  Mary  E.  McVicker,  Spencer,  Ohio. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  %  of  a 
pint  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  3  cups  of  light-brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
and  1  rounding  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  as  liked  and  mix  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled. — Sister  Amanda  Widdows,  Hagerstown,  Ind. 

Drop  Cakes. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard,  1  cup  of 
water,  4  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs  and  4  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Stir  lard  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
then  the  water,  flavor,  and  the  whites.  Put  the  baking  powder  in 
the  flour  and  add  last.  Bake  in  well-greased  gem  pans,  or  drop  the 
batter  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  in  rows,  on  flat  greased  tins. — Sister 
Pearle  F.  Benner,  Duncansville,  Pa. 

Drop  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  or  lard, 
4  eggs  well  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  4  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste  and  add  as  much 
flour  as  is  needed  to  make  like  cake  dough. — Sister  Susie  M.  Bere, 
Lanark,  III. 

Deacon  Cookies. — Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  but- 
ter and  lard  mixed  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  out,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Ada  M.  Gnagey,  West  Milton,  Ohio. 

Eggless  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  }4  cup  of  lard,  and  j4  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Use  flour  to 
make  a  dough  not  too  stiff. — Sister  Eveline  Skiles,  Rossville,  Ind. 

Eggless  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  soft  white  sugar,  or  iy2 
cups  of  granulated,  1  cup  of  butter  or  lard  not  melted,  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg,  if  desired,  and  sift  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
cut,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Put  a  raisin  in  the  center  of  each 
cookie. — Sister  G.  R.  Goughnour,  Canton,  Ohio*. 


254  CAKES 

Eggless  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  a  scant  cup  of  but- 
ter (or  other  good  shortening;  lard  and  butter  mixed  do  nicely),  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  as  you  like 
and  mix  with  flour  enough  for  a  soft  dough. — Sister  Elsie  Oliver, 
Kinross,  Iowa. 

Fig  Cookies. — Make  a  rich  fig  jam,  .hen  make  your  favorite 
plain  or  sugar  cookie  dough,  roll  thin,  spread  fig  jam  on  half,  fold 
the  other  half  over  this  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  sized  pieces 
desired.  Bake  as  any  other  cookies. — Sister  J.  I.  Miller,  Roanoke, 
La. 

Filled  Cookies. — Make  any  good  sugar  cookies,  roll  very 
thin  and  bake  quickly.  To  1  cup  of  chopped  dates  add  y2  cup  of 
chopped  nuts,  J/2  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Cook  all  together  till  smooth  and  use  as  filling 
between  the  cookies.  Another  to  be  used  in  the  same  way:  The 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  1  cup  of  seedless  or  seeded 
raisins,  y2  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Cook  the  same  as  above.  Fine  for  school  lunch. 
— Sister  C.  S.  Colony,  York,  N.  Dak. 

Frosted  Creams. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  and 
lard,  mixed  to  a  cream,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  cold  water,  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  soft  and 
roll.  Bake  on  under  side  of  dripping  pan.  Ice  while  warm  with  the 
following:  Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  dampen  with  water  and 
boil  until  it  threads.  Pour  it  over  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
Cut  the  creams  into  squares  with  a  sharp  knife. — Sister  Lizzie 
Chamberlain,  Yale,  Iowa. 

Frosted  Creams. — Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar. 
y2  pint  of  shortening,  y2  teacupful  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of 
soda,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  white 
of  1  egg.  Knead  in  flour  to  roll  out  easily,  and  cut  in  squares  the 
size  of  soda  crackers.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Frosting:  Take  lyi 
cups  of  white  sugar  dissolved  in  4  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  boil 
until  it  threads.    Pour  it  over  the  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  and 


CAKES 


255 


beat  until  smooth.  Season  with  vanilla,  and  spread  on  each  square 
with  a  knife. — Sister  Bertha  Brnnskill,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Frosted  Creams. — To  make  extra  good  cookies,  take  1  egg, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  7  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll.  Leave  dough  y>  inch  thick.  Bake  on  the  bottom  of 
a  large  bread  pan.  After  it  is  baked,  put  on  frosting  which  is  made 
as  follows :  1  cup  of  sugar  and  ]/\  cup  of  water.  Boil  till  it  hairs. 
Pour  in  beaten  white  of  egg  and  beat  till  it  hardens.  After  the 
frosting  is  on,  cut  in  squares  the  size  you  like. — Sister  M.  A.  Wolf, 
Libertyville,  Iowa. 

Fruit  Cookies. — Take  y  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3 
eggs,  \T/x  cups  of  lard,  10  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of 
raisins,  4  cups  of  rolled  oats,  <\y2  cups  of  flour,  sifted  beforehand,  1 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  milk.  Mix  very  stiff,  drop  in  a  pan  and  bake. — 
Sister  Eunice  Early,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Fruit  Cookies. — Take  ]/2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg, 
1  cup  of  chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  y2  cup  of  currants,  y2  cup  of 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Flour  the  fruits  and  add  spices,  then  mix  in  the  order  given.  Mix 
soft,  roll  thick,  cut  out  and  bake  quickly. — Sister  Annie  Taylor, 
Brazil,  N.  Dab. 

Fruit  Cookies  (Excellent).— Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y>  cup  each  of  raisins,  currants  and 
figs  chopped  fine,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  flour  to  make  dough  that  can  be  easily  handled. 
— Sister  John  D.  Clear,  Rock  ford,  III. 

Brighton  Rocks.— Take  4  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  2  cups  of  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  of  butter,  4 
eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  and  1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda ; 
put  together  in  order  as  given,  mould  with  your  hands  and  flatten. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Sarah  Cook,  Sabetha,  Kans. 


256 


CAKES 


Chocolate  Cookies. — Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  y2  cup  of  warm  water,  1  cup  of  grated 
chocolate,  y2  cup  of  butter  and  y2  cup  of  lard.  Melt  chocolate,  but- 
ter and  lard.  When  cool  add  to  sugar  and  eggs.  Flour  enough  to 
stiffen.  Roll  thin.  When  baked,  ice  with  white  icing. — Sister  Katie 
B.  Blonch,  Annville,  Pa. 

Chocolate  Jumbles. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoon* 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  3  cups  of  flour.  Roll  tnin  and  cut  in  any 
pattern  desired. — Sister  Katie  Geib,  Master  sonville,  Pa. 

Ginger  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups 
of  molasses,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  buttermilk.  Beat  well  together  the  sugar 
and  butter.  Then  put  in  molasses  and  ginger,  thoroughly  mixing 
them.  Then  put  in  the  eggs  after  they  have  been  well  beaten.  Put 
in  the  milk.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  you  can 
easily  work.  Roll  about  %  inch  thick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
The  softer  you  keep  the  dough,  the  better  the  cookies  will  be. — 
Sister  Mattie  Wertz,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Ginger  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1 

egg,  1  cup  of  baking  molasses,  y$  cup  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  each 
of  salt  and  soda,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Dissolve  soda  in 
the  vinegar,  then  add  to  the  molasses.  Use  flour  enough  for  soft 
dough. — Sister  E.  W.  Hollopeter,  Rockton,  Pa. 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes. — Take  y2  cup  each  of  butter  and  sugar, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
ginger,  y>  cup  of  boiling  water,  -1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt  mixed  in  3  cups  of  flour.  Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order 
named ;  drop  small  spoonfuls  2  inches  apart  in  a  well-greased  pan 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  M.  Jane  Stauffer,  Polo,  III. 

Grandmother's  Ginger  Cookies. — Take  1  quart  of  molasses, 
1  pint  of  buttermilk,  y2  pint  of  lard ;  have  all  warm,  and  mix  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  with  buttermilk,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger;  stir 


CAKES 


257 


in  6  pints  of  flour.  When  cold.  roll.  Wash  with  beaten  egg  before 
baking. — Sister  Laura  B.  Reift,  Idaville,  Lid. 

Good  Ginger  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
sugar.  1  cup  of  shortening.  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  y2  cup  of 
made  coffee.  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  coffee,  flour 
enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  medium  thick  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot 
oven. — Sister  Sarah  Witmore  Harnly,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies. — Take  1  pint  of  molasses.  1  cup  of  lard, 
1  cup  of  sour  or  buttermilk.  1  tablespoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful 
of  ginger.  Stir  the  soda  and  ginger  in  the  molasses,  add  the  other 
ingredients,  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  a  little 
thicker  than  sugar  cookies.  Cut  into  cakes,  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Sister  Lizzie  Bagwell,  Bremen,  Ohio. 

Ginger  Snaps. — Take  1  cups  flour.  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  butter,  1  egg.  1  tablespoonful  good  vinegar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  and  1  teaspoonful  ginger  If  the  ingredients  are  cold, 
it  may  seem  hard  to  mix  in  the  full  amount  of  flour,  but  it  should  be 
in  if  possible.  These,  if  properly  baked,  very  much  resemble  those 
in  the  bakeries. — Sister  Kittie  Xeher,  Ark. 

Ginger  Snaps. — Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  lard,  1  tablespoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  warm  water.  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  1  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 
and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. — Sister  Lizzie  AUbright,  North 
Manchester,  Ind. 

Ginger  Snaps. — Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  dark  sugar, 
1  egg,  J/2  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  4  cups  of  flour ;  dissolve  soda  in  1  table- 
spoonful of  boiling  water.  Pinch  off  small  bits  of  the  dough,  roll  in 
palm  of  the  hand,  flatten  a  little,  lay  in  pan  not  too  close  and  bake, 
— Sister  Katie  Shetter,  Morrill,  Kans. 


258 


CAKES 


Ginger  Snaps.— Of  all  the  cakes  one  loves  to  eat  perhaps 
none  charms  the  palate  like  good  ginger  snaps. 

And  if  to  make  the  best  you'd  wish  to  know, 

Why,  study  well  the  lines  you  find  below: 

Melt  of  butter  half  a  pound ;  also  of  lard ; 

Then  add  sugar  brown  a  half  a  pound. 

Stir  in  a  quart  of  'lasses,  not  too  hard, 

Four  tablespoons  of  ginger  nicely  ground. 

Into  this  mixture  sift  two  quarts  of  flour, 

Then,  to  insure  the  cake  shall  not  be  sour, 

Dissolve  in  milk  four  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ; 

(Saleratus  is  advised,  but  I  like  not  the  odor). 

Mix  either  with  milk ;  it  surely  makes  no  matter,  • 

So  that  you  pour  the  milk  into  the  batter. 

Add  more  flour  and  roll  out  thin  the  dough ; 

Then  cut  in  cakes,  but  this  you  surely  know. 

Bake  them  well  in  an  oven  cooks  call  "  slow," 

And  when  they  are  baked  they  will  not  last  long,  I  know. 

— Sister  Alice  F underbuy g,  Gillford,  Mo. 

Ginger  Snaps. — 1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
lard  or  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, 1  tablespoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  1 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt.  Add  the  vinegar  to  the 
dissolved  soda,  let  it  foam  well,  then  add  to  the  dough,  mix  hard, 
roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. — Sister  Geo.  Wriglitsman,  Virdcn,  III. 

Round  Ginger  Snaps. — Take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  yl  cup  of  water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff 
dough.  Do  not  roll  as  thin  as  sugar  cookies,  cut  with  a  small 
round  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Barbara  Wolf,  May- 
ville,  N.  Dak. 

Hermits. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  or 
lard,  1  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  3  eggs,  y2  nutmeg,  y2 
teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  cup  of  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  roll  without  sticking. 
Roll  y2  inch  thick  and  cut  with  round  cake  cutter ;  bake  in  a  rather 


CAKES 


259 


quick  oven.  These  will  keep  a  month. — Sister  Louella  Hitchings, 
Warriorsmark,  Pa. 

Hermits. — Take  2  cups  of  "  C  "  sugar,  2  eggs,  y  cup  of  but- 
ter, y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  of  chopped 
nuts,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves.  Mix  as  stiff  as  possible,  just  so  it  can  be  stirred 
with  a  spoon.  A  teaspoonful  of  dough  makes  1  good-sized  cake. 
Frost  with  boiled  icing. — Sister  Nettie  Stine,  Leaf  River,  III. 

Pepper  Nuts. — Mix  into  a  baking  pan  3  pounds  of  molasses. 
1  pound  of  sugar,  J/2  pound  of  lard  or  butter,  4  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  and  2  each  of  cloves  and  ginger.  Place  on  the  stove 
and  bring  to  a  sharp  heat,  then  take  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  ?>y2 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Lastly  stir  in  \y2 
pounds  of  flour,  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  In  the 
morning  work  out  into  half-inch  rolls,  cut  in  inch  lengths,  place  in 
pans  not  too  close  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Minnie 
Barkdoll,  Warrenville,  III. 

Rock  Cookies. — Take  2  beaten  eggs,  2  cups  of  sifted  flours 
1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  rolled  oats,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
of  seedless  or  seeded  raisins,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  the  same  of  cloves  if  liked. 
Mix  all  together  and  form  in  little  balls  as  large  as  a  hulled  walnut. 
Place  on  the  under  side  of  a  dripping  pan  with  plenty  of  room  to 
spread  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Remove  with  a  knife. — Sister  Ber- 
tie Cullen,  Beatrice,  Nebr. 

Lemon  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  or 
lard,  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  flour  to  mix 
stiff.  Flavor  'with  lemon.  Before  baking  brush  the  top  of  the  cook- 
ies with  this  mixture :  The  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet 
milk  and  3  of  water. — Sister  Mary  C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 

French  Lemon  Cakes. — Take  %  pound  of  butter,  4  eggs,  1 
pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  flour,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der. Flavor  with  lemon.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  with  a  cake  cutter, 
— Sister  Anna  Banner,  Knoxville,  Md. 


260 


CAKES 


Lemon  Hearts. — Take  y2  cup  of  butter,  cream  it,  and  mix 
gradually  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Mix  a  heaped 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  in  with  the  former  preparation,  add- 
ing enough  flour  to  enable  one  to  roll.  Roll  very  thin,  sprinkle 
granulated  sugar  on  top,  cut  with  a  heart-shaped  cutter  and  bake  to 
a  brownness  desired. — Sister  Kate  H.  Zug,  Elizabethtown,  Pa. 

Molasses  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
of  lard,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  and  flour 
enough  to  roll.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  Cora  Shaffer,  Odell, 
Nebr. 

Molasses  Cookies. — Put  into  a  bowl  1  cup  of  shortening 
(drippings  and  lard),  2  cups  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  stir  until 
"  bubbly."  Then  add  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  gin- 
ger, a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  beaten  egg,  and  flour  to  roll  as 
soft  as  possible.  Cut  out  perfectly  round  and  lift  carefully  with  a 
broad-bladed  knife  into  a  floured  dripping  pan,  being  careful  not  to 
crowd  them.  Bake  a  rich  brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  When 
done,  lift  out  carefully  and  lay  on  a  smooth  surface  till  cold. — Sister 
Grace  R.  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa, 

Cheap  Molasses  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  24  cup  of  lard  cold,  J/2  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cloves, 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Mix  all  together  and 
stir  until  very  light ;  then  add  y2  cup  of  cold  water,  and  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  soda.  Sift  soda  and  flour  together,  add  enough  flour 
to  mix  nicely  and  roll  out.  Mix  in  the  evening,  let  stand  in  a  cool 
place  over  night  and  bake  the  next  day.  Beat  the  white  of  the  same 
egg  and  brush  over  the  tops  of  the  cookies  before  baking. — Sister 
Emma  Fisher,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Good  Plain  Cookies. — Take  4  cups  of  white  sugar,  2  cups 
of  melted  butter  and  lard,  4  eggs,  12  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.   Roll  thin. 

Sister  .Florence  Jnman,  Bradford,  Ohio. 


CAKES 


261 


Oatmeal  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses, 
£4  cup  of  lard,  24  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  oatmeal,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  ginger,  or  if  you  like  flavor  with  other  spice,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Dissolve  with  y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Take  flour  enough  to 
make  stiff.  Roll  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Turn  pan  upside 
down  to  bake. — Sister  Maude  0.  Fahrney  Flora,  Twin  Falls,  Idaho. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — Take  2  eggs,  1  small  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  Yi  cup  of  sour  milk,  in  which  is  dissolved  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  cup  of  chopped 
raisins  (seeded  or  seedless).  Mix  into  a  soft  batter  and  drop  from 
a  spoon  on  buttered  pans. — Sister  Lora  Marsh,  Williston,  N.  Dak. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — Mix  as  for  pie  dough  3  cups  of  rolled 
oats,  2  cups  of  flour,  £4  of  a  cup  of  lard,  ^4  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  y2 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  %  of  a,  cup  of  raisins,  1 
teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  and  y2  cup  of 
sweet  milk.  Roll  thin  and  bake. — Sister  Lida  Hershberger,  Salem, 
III. 

Snowballs. — Take  the  whites  of  5  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  ^4 
cup  of  lard,  £4  CUP  °f  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem  pans.  Then  take  1  cup  of 
sugar,  enough  water  to  melt  it  and  boil  until  stringy.  Stir  this  into 
the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten  and  spread  over  gems,  and  sprinkle 
shredded  cocoanut  over  them.  Place  in  oven  a  few  minutes  for 
icing  to  harden. — Sister  Ella  Miller,  Versailles,  Ohio. 

Sugar  Cookies. — Take  1  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups  of  sugar 
creamed  together,  5  eggs  beaten  (to  make  extra  nice,  beat  whites 
and  yolks  separately),  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flavor  to 
suit  taste,  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Just  before  baking,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. — Sister 
Alice  S.  Wallick,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Sugar  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor,  roll  thin  and 
sprinkle  with  white  sugar  before  baking. — Sister  N.  E.  Lilligh,  Mul- 
berry Grove,  III. 


262  CAKES 

Sugar  Cookies. — Take  V-/2  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of 
butter  or  lard,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  and  flour  enough  to  allow  you  to  handle,  not 
stiff.  Roll  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Minerva  Kint- 
ner,  Bryan,  Ohio. 

Sugar  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter  or 
lard,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  6  cups  of 
flour.    Flavor  to  taste. — Sister  Dora  Stndebaker,  Whitewater,  hid. 

Sugar  Cookies. — Take  2  heaping  cups  of  light-brown  sugar, 

1  cup  of  lard,  and  2  eggs.  Cream  together  till  light,  then  add  .1  cup 
of  sour  cream,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  cream,  and 
flour  enough  to  roll.  Sprinkle  granulated  sugar  over  the  top,  cut 
out  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Martha  Ross,  Sidney,  Ind. 

Bakery  Sugar  Cookies. — Take  4  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  y  cup  of  melted  lard,  2  eggs  and  3  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder.    Bake  in  cookies. — Sister  Eldora  Thomas, 
Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Sugar  Cakes. — Take  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  y±  cup  of  lard,  1  cup 
of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  and  y2  nutmeg.  Add 
flour  enough  to  roll.  Sprinkle  granulated  sugar  over  the  top.  They 
are  best  if  the  batter  is  stirred  up  in  the  evening  and  allowed  to  set 
until  morning. — Sister  Alice  K.  Trimmer,  York,  Pa. 

Sugar  Drop  Cookies. — Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups 
of  shortening,  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Add  6]/2  cups  of  sifted  flour  and 
stir  well.  Drop  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  walnut  on  greased  tins, 
allowing  space  for  them  to  spread  as  they  bake.  Flavoring  of  any 
kind  liked  may  be  added. — Sister  Sallie  C.  Cline,  Castleton,  Kans. 

Plain  Sugar  Cookies. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  y2  cup  of  lard,  1  cup  of  cold  water,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

2  eggs,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  flour  to  the 
consistency  for  rolling.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  Delia  Lchmer,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 


CAKES 


263 


Scotch  Cookies. — Take  V/2  pounds  of  sugar,  1*4  pounds  of 
butter  or  part  lard,  4  eggs,  y2  pint  of  molasses,  \y2  ounces  of  soda, 
and  3^4  pounds  of  flour.  Flavor  with  allspice.  Mix  in  rotation. — 
Sister  Emma  I.  Weaver,  Mound  City,  Mo. 

Fruit  Crackers. — Required:  1  pound  of  dates,  1  pint  of  rich 
cream,  graham  flour.  Seed  the  dates.  Cut  them  in  small  pieces. 
Take  first-class  graham  flour,  sift  into  the  cream  till  it  forms  a  paste 
thick  enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  out  2  layers,  y  inch  thick.  Sprinkle 
the  cut  dates  over  one  of  these  pieces,  lay  the  other  thereon,  and 
then  roll  out  smooth.  Cut  into  squares,  about  3  inches  each  way, 
prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  and  bake  till  not  too  crisp. — Sister  I.  H. 
Moore,  Elgin,  III. 

Graham  Crackers. — Take  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  y2  cup  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  graham 
flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  so  that  it  can  be  rolled  and 
cut  the  same  as  sugar  cookies.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Sister  Mary 
Wampler,  Dayton,  Va. 

Lemon  Crackers. — Take  2y2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard,  2 
eggs,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  cents'  worth  of  oil  of  lemon,  and 
1  ounce  of  carbonate  of  ammonia.  Beat  the  sugar  and  lard  well  to- 
gether, then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Pulverize  the  ammonia  and 
dissolve  in  sweet  milk,  then  add  the  lemon  and  stir  in  flour  until  it 
is  real  stiff.  Knead  well,  roll  thin  as  pie  crust,  cut  in  squares,  stick 
with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Sister  M.  Kate  Crist,  Tim- 
berville,  Va. — Pound  the  dough  until  light. — Sister  Lizzie  M.  Blick^ 
enstaif,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 

Oatmeal  Crackers.— Take  2/3  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 
1  egg,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  cups  of 
wheat  flour,  and  3  cups  of  oatmeal.  The  dough  should  be  as  stiff  as 
it  can  be  rolled,  and  if  necessary  add  a  little  more  milk.  Roll  and 
cut  in  squares,  or  any  desired  shape  and  bake. — Sister  H.  Kurtz, 
Hebron,  Iowa. 


264 


CAKES 


Oatmeal  Wafers. — Take  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  3  cups  of  flour, 
V2  cup  of  shortening,  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  cold  water,  and  y2 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Roll  thin. — Sister  Laura  Hass,  Mechanics- 
burg,  Pa. 

Vanilla  Wafers. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  2/$  cup  of  butter,  4 
teaspoonfuls  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  1  egg,  \y2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  y$  teaspoon  of  soda  and  flour  to  roll 
very  thin. — Sister  Ethel  Mishler,  South  Whitley,  Ind. 

Vanilla  Wafers. — Take  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2/z  cup  of  but- 
ter and  lard  mixed,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  ^3  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  with  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk.  Stir  all  together  and  use  flour  enough  to  roll  very 
thin.  Cut  in  small  shapes  and  bake  on  slide  in  the  oven. — Sister 
Mazie  Clippinger,  Shippensburg,  Pa. 

Ginger  Bread. — Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  V2  cup  of  sugar, 
add  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  well  and  add  1  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  into  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Sift 
in  3  cups  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  large  pan.  If  desired,  put  in  a  cup  of  raisins. 
— Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman,  Elgin,  III. 

Ginger  Bread. — Take  1  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  % 
pint  of  melted  lard,  add  flour  to  thicken  and  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  alum  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful of  cold  water.  Dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls  of  soda  in  24  of 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  pour  it  over  the  mixture ;  then  add  flour 
enough  to  make  it  very  stiff.  Grease  pans  well  and  dredge  white 
with  flour  to  prevent  sticking.  Spread  batter  evenly  in  pans.  This 
will  make  2  cakes. — Sister  Jennie  A.  Crofford,  Martinsburg,  Pa. 

Ginger  Bread. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1 
cup  of  cream,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  ginger  to  taste.—  Sister  Barbara 
Wolf,  Mayville,  N.  Dak. 


CAKES 


265 


Gingerbread. — Take  y2  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar ; 
cream  together.  Add  1  cup  of  molasses,  beat  again.  Then  add  2 
eggs  and  beat  again,  lastly  add  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon.  Beat  thoroughly.  The  beating  is  what  makes  it  good. — 
Sister  Landonia  B.  Saul,  Octavia,  Nebr. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. — Take  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of 
shortening,  1  cup  of  sorghum  molasses,  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  3  teacupfuls  of  flour. 
This  will  make  2  small  loaves. — Sister  Ella  E.  Leedy,  Cerro  Gordo, 
III. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. — Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  egg,  5  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  shortening,  iy2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  with  the  molasses,  and  2/z  cup 
of  hot  water  added  last. — Sister  Emma  Carstensen,  Girard,  III. 

Ginger  Cake. — Take  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  %  pint  of  sugar,  y 
pint  of  molasses,  lard  or  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  and  1  pint  of  raisins  does  not 
spoil  it  but  can  be  left  out.  Bake  in  bread  pans  and  serve  with 
jelly. — Sister  Ida  Wampler  Mohler,  Leeton,  Mo. 

Ginger  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  baking  molasses,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  lard,  3  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
ginger.  Beat  this  well,  then  add  \y>  teaspoonfuls  of  soda.  On  the 
batter  now  pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  well.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa. 

Ginger  Cake  Without  Milk  or  Eggs. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  made  coffee,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  soda,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  good  batter. — Sister  Lizzie  D.  Mohler,  Miami,  N.  M. 

Angel  Food  Cake. — Whites  of  10  eggs,  iy  cups  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  flour  sifted  3  times,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Add  the  cream  of  tartar  to  the  eggs  when  half  beaten,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  beat  until  very  stiff,  put  in  the  sugar  and  flour,  stirring  light- 
ly. Put  in  an  ungreased  cake  pan  and  bake  from  35  to  50  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  E.  E.  Scroggs,  Centerview,  Mo. 


266 


CAKES 


Angel  Food  Cake. — Take  the  whites  of  11  eggs,  iy2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  pastry  flour  measured  after  sifting  4 
times  with  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  the  sugar  into  the  eggs, 
add  the  vanilla  and  flour,  stirring  quickly  and  lightly.  Beat  until 
ready  to  put  in  the  oven.  Bake  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Do 
not  grease  the  cake  pan. — Sister  Lillie  M.  Ulrcy,  Canton,  Kans. 

Angel  Food  Cake. — Take  the  whites  of  8  eggs,  V/2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  level  cup  of  flour  (sift  flour  before  measuring),  and  a  scant 
half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  before  whipping.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Sift, 
measure  and  set  aside  the  flour  and  sugar ;  whip  the  eggs  to  a  foam ; 
add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  till  very  stiff.  Add  the  sugar  and 
beat  in  with  a  spoon  ;  then  add  flavoring  and  beat  again.  Lastly, 
fold  in  the  flour  lightly.  Do  not  beat  after  adding  flour,  except  just 
enough  to  mix  it  in  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes. — 
Sister  Fannie  Hollar,  Hardin,  Mo. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. — Cut  in  small  pieces  dried  apples  enough 
to  fill  2  cups,  wash,  cover  with  water,  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  1  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  cook  until  tender,  let  cool. 
Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  2/z  cup  of  shortening  (butter  and  lard 
mixed),  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  cups  of  flour.  1  teaspoonful  each 
of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  other  spices  if  you  like.  Stir  all 
together  and  bake  in  a  loaf  1  hour.  Lay  a  greased  paper  in  the  bot- 
tom of  cake  pan,  as  it  will  separate  in  removing  if  baked  otherwise. 
— Sister  Sarah  J.  Johnsonbaiigh,  Hagerstoum,  Ind. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. — Boil  together  2  cups  of  molasses  and  3 
cups  of  dried  apples,  which  have  been  soaked  over  night.  When 
cool,  add  2  cups  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  nut-meats,  and  1  teaspoonful 
each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Add  this  to  a  batter  made  of 
2  cups  of  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs.  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  3y2  cups  of  flour.  Bake  one  and  one-half 
hour. — Sister  Edna  Eisenbise,  Lanark,  III. 


CAKES 


267 


Apple  Butter  Cake. — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar,  T/z  cup 
butter  and  4  eggs  well  beaten.  Then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon 
and  cloves.  Add  2  cups  of  flour.  Beat  this  well  together.  Then 
add  1  cup  of  good  apple  butter.  To  be  baked  as  layer  cake. — Sister 
Susie  Hee stand,  Smithville,  Ohio. 

Dried  Apple  Fruit  Cakes. — Soak  3  cups  of  dried  apples  over 
night,  in  the  morning  chop  them,  put  on  the  stove  with  3  cups  of 
molasses,  stew  almost  soft ;  add  1  cupful  of  raisins  and  stew  a  few 
minutes ;  when  cold,  add  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs  and 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  spice  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  steady  oven. — Sister 
I.  A.  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 

Applesauce  Cake. — Take  iy>  cups  of  sugar,  V/2  cups  of  ap- 
ple-sauce, y2  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  1 
scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  1  cup  of  raisins.  Add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter  and  bake  in  three  layers,  or  in  a  loaf.  The 
spices  may  be  left  out. — Sister  R.  F.  Brubaker,  San  Dimas,  Cal. 

Applesauce  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of  butter, 
1.^4  cups  of  apple  sauce,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cin- 
namon and  cloves,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  and  234  cups  of  flour. 
Bake  slowly  one  hour. — Sister  Mary  Butterbaugh,  Polo,  III. — Lard 
may  be  used  instead  of  butter.  The  apple  sauce  should  be  tart. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sauce. — Sister  Blanche  Lents,  Elgin,  III. 

"  Brownstone  Front"  Cake. — For  the  dark  part:  Add  ]/2 
cup  of  grated  chocolate  to  1  cup  of  sweet  milk;  boil  until  well  dis- 
solved and  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  in  a  little  milk.  Light  part: 
Take  y2  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
milk,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  baking  powder  and  soda,  2  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix  light  and  dark  parts 
together  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  This  baked  in  a  loaf  and 
covered  with  white  icing  is  excellent.— Sister  Rosa  May  Miller, 
Roanoke,  La. 


268 


CAKES 


Blackberry  Jam  Cakes. — Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2/z  cup 
of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  cup  of  blackberry  jam,  2  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  and  1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  white  icing.  Raspberry  or  strawberry 
jam  may  be  used  instead  of  the  blackberry  jam  if  preferred. — Sister 
Lizzie  D.  Mohler,  Miami,  N.  M. 

Bread  Dough  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  bread  dough  before  the 
bread  is  worked  stiff ;  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard,  1  cup  of 
seedless  raisins,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spices. — Sister  Anna  Miller,  Ver- 
sailles, Ohio. 

Buttercup  Cake. — Take  24  cup  of  butter,  iy2  cups  of  sugar, 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  1  whole  egg,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 
y2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon  essence.  Golden  frosting:  Beat  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  very  light  and  stir  in  powdered  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to 
spread.    Flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  M.  A.  Peacock,  Mt.  Morris, 

m 

Buttermilk  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  pint  of  mo- 
lasses, y2  cup  of  sugar,  2/$  pint  of  lard,  2  eggs,  2  scant  teaspoonfuls 
of  saleratus,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  a  little  stiffer  than 
common  cake  batter  if  it  is  baked  in  jelly  tins ;  if  baked  as  drop 
cakes,  mix  stiff  enough  so  they  will  not  run. — Sister  EMe  Hoover, 
Milford,  Ind. 

Caramel  Cake. — Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  y2  cup  of  shortening,  3  cups  of  flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Icing:  \y2  cups  of  brown  and  white  sugar  mixed, 
V2  cup  of  sweet  cream,  butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  all  together  until 
thick  enough  to  spread  between  the  layers  and  over  the  cake.  Just 
before  removing  the  icing  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
— Sister  Sue  C.  Foutz,  Waynesboro,  Pa. 

Caramel  Cake. — Cream  1  cup  of  butter  with  2  cups  of  sugar, 
add  slowly  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour  in  which  3  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder  have  been  well  sifted,  and  last  the  well  beaten 


CAKES 


269 


whites  of  8  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Filling:  Take  2  cups  of 
light-brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter;  boil  until  the  mixture  will  hold  together  in  cold  water: 
when  done,  add  1  or  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Spread  between  lay- 
ers and  on  outside  of  cake. — Sister  Orpha  Bolinger,  Lanark,  III. 

A  Cheap  Cake. — Take  l/2  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  mix  all  together, 
then  add  3  cups  of  flour  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  loaf  or  layer. — Sister  Mat  tie  E.  Hylton,  Troutville,  Va. 

A  Good  Cheap  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  (or 
granulated),  1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  2y2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  cup 
of  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  iy  cups  of  sour  milk,  preferably  butter- 
milk. Put  all  excepting  the  milk  into  the  mixing  bowl  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  hand.  Then  stir  in  the  milk  and  bake  in  four 
layers.  Put  together  with  caramel  filling.  This  is  excellent  when 
butter  and  eggs  are  expensive.— Sister  M.  A.  Snyder,  Bradford, 
Ohio. 

Very  Cheap  Cake. — Take  3  eggs  beaten  very  light,  add  1 
cup  of  sugar,  beat  again,  add  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  2/z  cup  of  almost  boiling  water.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
— Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. — Pour  in  the  water 
slowly  while  stirring.  Do  not  move  or  jar  while  baking. — Sister 
Mary  Strickler,  Octavia,  Nebr. 

Colorado  Chocolate  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
V2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  level  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs  beaten 
together,  3  squares  of  chocolate,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  y  tea- 
spoonful cloves,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  y2  nutmeg.  Mix  in  y2  cup  of  walnuts  and  bake  in  two  thick 
layers.  Add  1  cup  of  nuts  to  a  cream  filling.  Half  of  this  recipe 
makes  one  common-sized  cake.  A  nice  icing:  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar 
in  y  cup  of  water,  four  minutes.  Beat  until  cool,  and  spread  on 
cake  quickly.  Then  spread  over  that  butter  and  chocolate  melted 
together. — Sister  Sarah  Winger  Merrill,  The  Dalles,  Ore. 


270 


CAKES 


Checkerboard  Cake. — Light  part :  Take  iy2  cups  of  sugar, 
]/2  cup  of  butter,  J/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  4 
eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of.  baking  powder,  flavor  with  extract.  Dark 
part :  Take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der and  flavor  with  spices.  Mix  in  separate  tins.  Put  a  ring  of  the 
light,  then  a  ring  of  the  dark,  then  a  ring  of  light  in  2  jelly  tins; 
then  in  2  other  jelly  tins  put  a  ring  of  the  dark,  then  a  ring  of  the 
light  then  a  ring  of  the  dark.  This  makes  2  tins  each  with  a  light 
edge  and  center,  and  2  each  with  a  dark  edge  and  center.  Put  to- 
gether in  layers  alternately. — Sister  Mina  H.  Bosserman,  Dayton, 
Ohio. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Take  \y2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  butter,  y>  cup  of  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  1  square  of  chocolate ;  dissolve  choco- 
late in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and  add  to  cake.  Bake  in  lay- 
ers and  put  together  with  icing. — Sister  Lora  Roop,  Warrensburg, 
Mo. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Take  y2  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  y>  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Cook  until  smooth  and  when 
cool  mix  with  the  following:  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  but- 
ter, y2  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  warm  water.  Put  the  flour  in  last. — Sister  Edna 
Eisenbise,  Lanark,  III. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake. — Cream  2  cups  of  sugar  with  yi 
of  a  cup  of  butter  (lard  may  be  used  instead  of  butter).  Add  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  well  and  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs.'  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Cream  filling:  Scald  1  pint  of  milk  and 
stir  into  it  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  small  por- 
tion of  the  milk.  Add  y2  cup  of  sugar  beaten  light  with  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  be- 
tween the  layers  of  cake.    Ice  the  top  with  an  icing  made  by  boil- 


CAKES 


271 


•ing  1  cup  of  sugar  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  water  until  it  strings. 
Pour  this  over  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg  and  add  1  square  of 
melted  chocolate.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  Maud  M:  Click, 
Fairfax,  Va. 

Chocolate  Cake  or  Devil's  Food. — Take  2  cups  of  dark- 
brown  sugar,  Yz  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  of  butter,  Yz  cup  of 
chocolate,  y2  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  chocolate,  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff 
batter.  Bake  in  layers  in  a  slow  oven.  Spread  chocolate  icing  be- 
tween layers. — Sister  D.  W.  Inman,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Eggless  Chocolate  Cake. — Mix  1  cup  of  sugar  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  or  lard.  Add  y2  cup  of  milk  or  water,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Then  in  a  small  pan 
mix  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  or  grated  chocolate,  1  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and  Y*.  cup  of  milk  or  water,  and  cook 
until  it  thickens.  Add  this  to  the  first  mixture  while  hot.  Flavor 
with  Y*  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  sift  in  1^  cups  of  flour  with  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. — Caramel  Frosting :  1  cup  of  sugar 
and  5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Boil  until  when  a  little  is  dropped  in 
cold  water  it  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla  and  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Spread  quickly  between  layers  and  on  top. — Sister  Edith  Riley, 
Highland,  Ohio. 

Eggless  Devil's  Food  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  dark  brown 
sugar,  Y2  cup  of  butter,  Y  cup  °f  not  water,  Y  cup  °f  sour  milk,  6 
teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  flour  to  thicken. 
Bake  in  a  square  pan. — Sister  Nannie  Byer  Newcomer,  South  Bend, 
Ind. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake. — Take  2  eggs,  Y*  CUP  °f  butter,  1 
cup  df  sweet  milk,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der and  3  cups  of  flour.  Filling :  Take  ^2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  chocolate  and  ^2 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Boil  until  it  threads. — Sister  Jennie  Neher, 
Mountain  Grove,  Mo. 


272 


CAKES 


One-egg  Chocolate  Cake. — Take  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  y2 
cup  of  milk,  and  y2  cup  of  either  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa.  Beat 
well  and  put  on  the  stove  to  cook  slowly  until  a  little  thick.  Then 
take  off  and  add  y2  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  and  1^4  cups  of  flour,  sifted  twice.  Bake  in  two  lay- 
ers. For  filling  and  frosting :  White  of  the  egg  beaten  light  and  on 
it  pour  the  syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  water  boiled 
until  it  threads. — Sister  Verna  Cooney,  Enders,  Nebr. 

Layer  Chocolate  Cake. — Take  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  3  cups  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  a  little  salt.  When  done,  ice  with  the  fol- 
lowing: Take  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  1  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  chocolate  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Haines,  Hunt- 
ington, Ind. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix  all  well  together.  Put 
in  a  pan  y2  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  V2  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  y2 
cup  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  this  and  pour  into  the  cake  boiling  hot. 
Mix  well  and  bake  slowly.  Icing:  Take  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice.  Boil  together  8  minutes  and  pour  slowly  over  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Beat  until  cool,  and  flavor  to  taste. — 
Sister  Barbara  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake. — Put  1  ounce  of  chocolate  and  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  cup,  and  place  in  a  tin  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  to  a  cream  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat 
in  gradually  y>  cup  of  milk ;  next  add  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  \y2  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  flour.  Put  y$  of  the  batter  into 
a  bowl  and  stir  into  it  the  melted  chocolate.  Put  one  mixture  into 
a  pan,  then  the  other.  Bake  about  40  minutes. — Sister  Elmer  Snow- 
berger,  Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 


CAKES 


273 


Chocolate  Nut  Cake. — For  the  cake  part  take  1  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  and  y2  cup  of  butter.  Beat  to  cream,  then  put  in 
2  eggs,  1  at  a  time,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  putting 
1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  with  the  last  y2  cup  of  flour.  Bake 
in  2  layers.  For  the  filling,  take  \y2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of 
milk,  2  bars  of  grated  chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  put  in 
a  granite  pan  and  cook  to  the  soft  ball  state,  stirring  occasionally, 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Take 
about  y,  of  this  mixture  and  add  1  teacupful  chopped  nut  meats,  stir 
until  cool  enough  to  spread.  Put  this  between  the  layers,  and  spread 
the  remaining  icing  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Save  some  of  the 
whole  nut  meats  and  arrange  on  top  of  cake.  Use  English  walnuts 
or  hickory  nuts.  Grease  the  pan  that  the  icing  is  cooked  in  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  This  is  excellent  if  the  recipe  is  followed  closely. — 
Sister  Pearl  Jackson,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Solid  Chocolate  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  y2 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sour  milk  or  black  coffee,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  y2  cup  of  hot  water,  y,  cake  of  grated  choco- 
late, and  2  heaping  cups  of  flour. — Sister  Lydia  J  or  don,  Wiley, 
Ohio. 

Christmas  Cake. — Take  y^  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  1  cup  of  very  sour  cream,  Zy2  cups  of  pastry  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  1  pound  of  raisins. 
Bake  one  and  one-half  hours. — Sister  Ida  Talley,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Cinnamon  Layer  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y  cup  of 
butter,  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  y  cup  of  milk,  iy  cups  of  flour,  and 
iy  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Filling:  The  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon.  Beat 
until  light  and  foamy,  and  put  between  and  on  top  of  layers. — Sister 
Emma  Schildknecht,  Rea,  Mo. 

Clove  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  st»da 
and  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Mix  and  bake. — 
Sister  J.  A.  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 


274 


CAKES 


Cocoanut  Pound  Cake. — Take  1  pound  of  sugar,  y2  pound 
of  butter,  6  eggs,  ^  of  a  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  fresh  grated 
cocoanut.  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Sister  Anna  D mi- 
ner, Knoxville,  Md. 

Excellent  Cake  or  Cocoanut  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar, 
24  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  4  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  6 
eggs,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. — Sister 
Lora  Roop,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Coffee  Cake. — Take  1  cup  'of  light-brown  sugar,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  cup  of  cold  coffee,  1  cup  of  shortening  (lard  and  butter), 
a  big  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  1  of 
ground  cloves,  and  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
the  coffee.  Put  all  together  before  stirring.  Add  enough  flour  to 
make  stiff.  Bake.  This  cake  should  be  made  several  days  before 
using.  We  prefer  it  made  a  week  before  eating.  Keep  it  well 
wrapped  to  prevent  drying  out. — Sister  Hattie  Y.  Gilbert,  Dcdeville, 
Va. 

Cornstarch  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
of  butter,  y  of  a  cup  of  milk,  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  y  of  a  cup  of 
cornstarch,  2  full  cups  of  flour  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon.  This  makes  four  layers. — Sister  Ettie  Holler, 
Hagcrstowii,  Ind. 

Cream  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  J/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water,  2  rounding  cups  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoons 
rounding  full  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  jelly  pans. — Sister 
Mary  L.  Miller,  North  Manchester,  Ind. 

Cream  Cake  without  Eggs. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  %.  cup  of  lard  or 
butter,  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  to 
taste. — Sister  Leona  Shively,  Newville,  N.  Dak. 

*  French  Cream  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten 
together,  iy2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted 
with  the  flour  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water.    When  baked,  split 


CAKES 


275 


each  layer  and  spread  with  custard.  Custard :  Heat  1  pint  of  milk 
and  when  nearly  boiling  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  that  have 
been  mixed  with  cold  milk,  1  beaten  egg ;  cup  sugar,  and  butter 
size  of  an  egg.  Flavor  to  suit  taste. — Sister  Grace  Moats,  Polo, 
Mo. 

Plain  Cream  Cake. — Take  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  cream.  This  makes  a  small  three- 
layer  cake  and  is  delicious.  Frosting:  Take  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  until  it  threads  when  dropping  from 
spoon,  then  beat  until  it  will  spread  without  running.  Flavor  to 
suit  taste. — Sister  Zelma  Bosserman,  Burkey,  N.  Dak. 

Fig  Cake. — Light  part:  Take  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of 
butter,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  cornstarch,  whites  of  4  eggs, 

cups  of  flour,  and  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Dark 
part:  Take  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  of  butter, 
y2  cup  of  water,  y2  pound  of  seedless  raisins,  y2  teaspoonful  each  of 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  y2  pound  of  figs  split  the  broad  way,  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  I  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  2  cups  of 
flour.  Put  together  when  baked,  using  light  and  dark  layers  alter- 
nately, with  or  without  icing. — Sister  Sue  C.  Fonts,  Waynesboro, 
Pa. 

Fig  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  sifted  into  it,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs.  Fig  filling  for  cake : 
Put  y2  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine,  in  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  cold 
water  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  slowly  until  thick  enough  to  spread 
without  running,  then  let  cool ;  then  with  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  mix  powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  stiff, 
spread  on  cake  rather  thick,  then  a  layer  of  figs  and  on  top  of  figs 
spread  another  layer  of  eggs.  This  makes  a  filling  about  1  inch 
thick,  and  is  a  very  good,  rich  cake. — Sister  Emma  Kindig,  Ingle- 
wood,  Col. 


276 


CAKES 


Fig  Oake. — Take  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
sweet  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  y2  cup 
cornstarch  and  the  whites  of  6  eggs.  Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with 
fig  filling,  which  is  made  as  follows :  Chop  1  pound  of  figs,  add  l/2 
cupful  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water.  Stew  until  soft  and  smooth. 
Spread  between  layers  and  ice  the  whole  cake  with  boiled  icing. — 
Sister  Josie  Sloniker,  Burr  oak,  Kans. 

Fruit  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  4  eggs, 
1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  tablespoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  1  nutmeg,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  1 
pound  of  currants  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. — Sister 
A.  W.  Hawbaker,  Kenmare,  N.  Dak. — Instead  of  sugar  and  sour 
milk  use  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  baking  molasses,  and  sweet 
milk  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda. — Sister  Mandelia  E.  Eaton,  Bal- 
timore, Md. 

Fruit  Cake. — Take  1  large  cupful  of  sour  cream,  1%  cupfuls 
of  brown  sugar,  4  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  y2  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  %.  pound  of  citron,  2  cupfuls 
of  raisins  and  2  cupfuls  of  currants.  Mix  the  fruit  in  a  little  flour 
to  keep  it  from  settling,  and  put  as  much  flour  in  as  you  think  it  will 
take  to  mix  it  thick  enough  to  hold  the  fruit  up.  If  your  cream  is 
rich,  do  not  take  any  butter,  but  if  not,  you  will  have  to  take  a  little. 
— Sister  Lizzie  G.  Arnold,  Albert  City,  Iowa. 

Fruit  Cake. — Take  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  flour,  y2 
pound  of  butter,  7  eggs,  y2  pound  of  currants  well  washed  and  dried, 
1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  dates  seeded,  ^  pound  of  citron 
sliced,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  1  teacupful  of  buttermilk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  the  juice  and  grated  yellow  rind  of  1  lem- 
on. Dredge  the  fruit  with  flour,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  milk  and  soda,  then  the  spices,  and 
last  the  beaten  whites  alternately  with  the  flour,  fruit,  and  lemon 
juice.  This  amount  requires  a  7-pound  mould  and  2y2  hours  for 
baking  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  it  can  be  divided  into  parts  and  baked 
in  2  hours. — Sister  N.  E.  Shickel,  Roanoke,  Va. 


CAKES 


277 


Imitation  Fruit  Cake. — Take  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  of  buttermilk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  7  eggs,  1  cup  of 
lard  and  butter  and  1  level  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  allspice.  This  makes  3  large  cakes. — Sister  EMe  Hoover,  Mil- 
ford,  Ind. 

Gem  Cake. — Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup  and  fill  with  rich, 
sweet  cream.  Add  to  this  in  a  mixing  bowl,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  1  cup  of  white  sugau,  nearly  \y2  cups  of  flour  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem  pans  or  two  layers. — 
Sister  Anna  Miller,  Versailles,  Ohio. 

A  Good  Cake. — Take  9  eggs,  2  cups  of  soft  white  sugar.  Beat 
them  together  1  hour;  then  add  2  cups  of  flour  and  y2  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  1  hour. — Sister  Josiah  Clapper,  Salemville, 
Pa. 

Gold  and  Silver  Cake. — Gold  part :  The  yolks  of  4  eggs,  34 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  Y\  cup  of  milk  (sweet),  1)4  cups  of 
flour  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Silver  part:  The 
whites  of  4  eggs,  J4  CUP  °f  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  34  cup  of  milk 
(sweet),  cups  of  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. — Sister 
L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Hickorynut  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  1  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  rich  sweet  milk,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2>y2  cups  of  flour, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  4  cups  of  chopped  nut  meats. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers  or  loaf. — Sister  M.  Alice  Mum- 
ma,  Sharpsburg,  Md. 

Hurry  Cake. — Take  1  cup  quite  full  of  unsifted  flour,  the 
same  cup  three-fourths  full  of  granulated  sugar,  and  2  even  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder.  Stir  all  of  these  together  dry  in  a 
dish.  Take  the  same  cup,  break  into  it  2  eggs,  beat  well  with  tea- 
spoon and  fill  cup  with  thin  sweet  cream.  Pour  this  over  dry  mix- 
ture and  beat  rapidly  till  smooth.  Pour  into  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar  and  bake  quickly.  Very  nice  for  loaf  or 
layer  cake. — Sister  L.  M.  Funderburgh,  Morrill,  Kans. 


278 


CAKES 


Ice  Cream  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  ^4 
cup  of  butter,  whites  of  6  eggs,  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der.  Bake  in  4  layers. — Sister  Elmira  Shoemaker,  Eaton,  Ind. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — Take  V/2  cups  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  5  eggs  thoroughly  beaten  and 
3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  3  cups  of  flour.  Flavor 
with  lemon. — Sister  Mary  A.  Albright,  North  Manchester,  Ind. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — Cream  well  1  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  cup  of 
butter.  Add  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  whites  of  3  eggs  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in 
layers  in  a  hot  oven.  Frosting :  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
2/3  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  15  minutes.  Spread 
between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake,  wrap  a  greased  paper  around 
cake,  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  till  the  frosting  sets,  remove 
and  set  away  to  cool. — Sister  Anna  Sherfy,  Mont  Ida,  Kans. 

Jam  Cake. — Cream  ^4  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  yolks 
of  3  eggs  together.  Add  first  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  allspice,  y2  nutmeg  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream.  Next 
add  1  cup  jam  and  \y2  cups  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  1  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Add  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  layers  and  put 
together  with  soft  icing. — Sister  Kittle  Ke'un,  Rockingham,  Mo. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. — Cream  1^- cups  of  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  3  eggs.  Add  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2y2  cups  of 
flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  4  layers.  Fill- 
ing: Take  1  cup  of  boiling  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  moistened  with  cold  sweet  milk. 
Let  boil.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  spread  between  layers. — Sister 
Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. — Take  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  cf  sugar 
beaten  in  after  the  eggs  are  beaten,  sweet  milk  in  amount  to  equal 
one  egg  and  1  large  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Bake  in  one  large  pan,  spread  with  jelly  or  icing  and 
roll. — Sister  Lola  Fausnight,  Canton,  Ohio. 


CAKES 


279 


Roll  Jelly  Cake. — Beat  3  eggs  until  light  then  add  a  scant 
cup  of  sugar.  Beat  with  the  beater  until  well  mixed.  Add  1  cup 
of  flour  minus  1  tablespoonful,  and  when  mixed  add  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  water.  Lastly  add  the  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  large  greased  and  floured  pan  in  an  oven  a  little  hotter 
than  for  sponge  cake. — Sister  Carrie  A.  Smith,  St.  Peter,  Minn. 

Layer  Cake. — Take  V/z  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  3  eggs. — Sister  Lizzie  JJ7.  Kilhefner,  Ephrata,  Pa. 

Layer  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1 
cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  cream,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  sifted  in  2  large  cups  of  flour.  Flavor  to  taste.  Mix  up 
cake  in  evening  and  let  rise  over  night,  and  bake  in  the  morning. 
The  cake  will  seem  stiff  but  do  not  thin  or  beat.  Cakes  made  in 
this  way  will  be  light  and  feathery.  Any  cake  can  be  made  in  this 
way,  except  Angel  Food. — Sister  Cassie  Martin,  Bloom,  Kans. 

Layer  Cake. — Take  2  eggs,  y  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
34  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
2y2  scant  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers,  flavoring  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  Then  take  1  cup  of  milk.  Put  in  a  pan  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Then  mix  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1  of  sugar.  Put  in  a 
pan  and  boil,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Spread  between 
layers  and  sprinkle  with  shredded  cocoanut. — Sister  Florence  Myers, 
Goshen,  Ind. 

Layer  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  cream, 
2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  the  cream,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Put  together 
with  cream  filling. — Sister  Alice  Fausnight,  Canton,  Ohio. 

Leap  Year  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  but- 
ter, whites  of  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Frosting : 
Beat  the  yellow  of  the  eggs  with  at  least  15  teaspoonfuls  of  pul- 
verized sugar.  Ice  while  cake  is  hot. — Sister  J.  T.  Myers,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa. 


280 


CAKES 


Layer  Cake. — Take  y2  pound  figs  and  stew  quite  tender. 
Cream  together  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  then  add 
1  egg  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  3  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  with  the  last  cup  mix  2  teaspoonfuls 
cf  cream  of  tartar.  Make  your  frosting  with  the  white  of  1  egg  and 
sugar,  and  spread  on  the  cake.  Then  put  on  a  layer  of  figs  well 
mashed,  then  another  layer  of  cake,  frosting  and  figs,  until  all  are 
added.  The  last  layer  is  simply  frosted.  Raw  bananas  sliced  fine, 
and  used  instead  of  figs,  make  a  fine  cake. — Sister  Cassie  Bowser, 
Lineboro,  Md. 

New  England  Layer  Cake. — Place  on  the  stove  where  it  will 
not  burn,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  chocolate  grated  (stir  slowly  in 
the  milk  until  it  is  dissolved),  then  add  1  cup  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg 
beaten,  then  let  cool.  When  the  custard  is  cool,  add  1  cup  sugar,  y2 
cup  butter,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  water,  2]/2  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  a'mod- 
erate  oven. — Sister  Ella  Moore,  Chicago,  III. 

Lemon  Cake. — Take  3  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  5  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  and  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon.  Icing :  Take  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  large  cup  of  pulverized  sugar, 
1  egg  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  well  together  and  then 
boil  for  5  or  10  minutes. — Sister  Clara  A.  Midlendore,  Gapland,  Md. 

Loaf  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  raised  dough,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  }4 
spoonful  of  nutmeg  and  1  cup  of  raisins  or  currants.  Mix  well. 
Put  in  a  pan  to  bake.  Let  it  rise  like  bread,  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  1  hour. — Sister  Winnie  West,  Leesburg,  Ohio. 

Mahogany  Cake. — Take  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  coffee,  2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
y2  cup  of  chocolate  in  y2  cup  of  milk  or  coffee ;  cool  and  stir  in  last. 
Filling:  iy2  cups  of  sugar  cooked  in  y2  cup  of  milk;  beat  until  cool. 
— Sister  Sue  B.  Heiny,  Carleton,  Nebr. 


CAKES 


281 


Lunch  Cake. — Take  x/2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  2  cups  of  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Flavor  to  suit  taste. — Sister  L.  M.  Funderburgh 
Morrill,  Kans. 

Marble  Cake. — White  part:  Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  1 
cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  T/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  and 
2y2  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Dark  part:  Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  cooking  molasses,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup 
of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoonful  of  mace,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda 
(soda  to  be  dissolved  in  a  little  milk  and  added  after  a  part  of  the 
flour  has  been  stirred  in),  and  \y2  cups  of  flour.  Drop  a  spoonful 
of  each  kind  in  a  well-buttered  cake  dish,  first  the  light  part  then  the 
dark  part,  alternately. — Sister  Leila  E.  Sanger,  Bays,  W.  Va. 

Marble  Cake.— White  part :  Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  y>  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  butter  size  of  a  large  egg.  Dark  part :  Take  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  spices  to  taste,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  layers. — Sister  Lydia  Brubaker,  Argos, 
Ind. 

Marshmallow  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup 
of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  Zy>  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  6  eggs  and  3 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Filling:  Take  \y2  cups  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  10  cents'  worth  of  marshmallows  and  7  tablespoonfuls 
of  water.  Put  marshmallows  in  oven  to  melt  before  adding  to  the 
other  ingredients. — Sister  Lydia  Jordan,  Wiley,  Ohio. 

Molasses  Loaf  Cake  without  Eggs. — Take  1  cup  of  sorghum 
molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  lard,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Place  in  pan,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Sister  Lizzie  A.  Wagoner, 
Charles  City,  Iowa. 


282 


CAKES 


Molasses  Loaf  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  2y2  cups  of  flour,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  y2  cup 
of  shortening. — Sister  J.  T.  Myers,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Marie  Cake. — Take  1  scant  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  cup  of  sour  cream,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. — Sister 

Lizzie  Angle,  Bringhurst,  Ind. 

Mountain  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter  and 

2  eggs  beaten  together.  Add  T/2  cup  of  milk  or  water,  2  cups  of 
flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour. — Sister  W. 
J.  Swigart,  Huntingdon,  Pa. 

Old  Maid's  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter  and 
lard.  Mix  well  together,  then  add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of 
flour,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  J/2  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  and  add  last  the  well-beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Do  not 
stir  much  after  the  eggs  have  been  added.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Icing : 
Take  2/z  cup  of  sugar,  5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  flavor  with  lem- 
on.   Boil  till  thick. — Sister  Mary  A.  Diehl,  Polo,  III. 

New  Mexico  Cake. — 1  cup  of  sugar  creamed  with  J/2  cup  of 
Fairbank's  cottolene ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups 
of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  thoroughly. 
The  success  of  your  cake  lies  largely  in  the  beating.  Lastly  add 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs.  Use  the  same  cup  to  do  all  the 
measuring.  For  icing  pour  y2  cup  of  boiling  water  over  1  cup  of 
sugar,  let  boil  till  it  hairs,  remove  from  stove  and  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  stirring  briskly.  Beat  till  all  is  a  creamy  mass. 
— Sister  Florence  Neff,  Clovis,  N.  M. 

Nutmeg  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3 
eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  nutmeg,  4  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
cresjn  of  tartar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  half  of  the  flour  and 
half  of  the  milk,  then  the  beaten  eggs,  grated  nutmeg  and  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon.   Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  having  the 


CAKES 


283 


cream  of  tartar  mixed  in  it,  and  lastly,  add  the  remainder  of  the 
milk,  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Beat  all  together  and  bake 
in  buttered  bread  pans. — Sister  Ida  E.  Yoder,  Spencer,  Ohio. 

Oatmeal  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  shortening,  1  .cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  raisins,  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Icing:  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  in  a  little  water 
until  it  spins  a  hair.  Pour  over  a  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  until  it 
cools  and  begins  to  thicken,  then  spread  on  the  cake. — Sister  Mar- 
tha C.  Senger,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Orange  Cake. — Cream  2  cups  of  sugar  with  %  cup  of  butter 
and  add  3  eggs  beaten  separately.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  2  oranges 
into  a  cup  (use  only  cup  of  orange  juice)  and  add  cold  water  to 
fill  the  cup.  Add  this  to  above  and  lastly  Zy2  cups  of  flour,  a  little 
orange  grated,  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — 
Sister  Emma  E.  Kindig,  Inglewood,  Cat. 

Orange  Cake. — Cream  2  cups  of  sugar,  T/2  cup  of  butter  and 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs.   Add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.    Mix  by  sifting  twice 

2  heaping  cups  of  flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  stir 
into  the  milk  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs  last,  and 
flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Filling:  Take  the  juice  of  2 
oranges,  the  grated  peeling  of  1  orange,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Boil,  and  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed 
with  cold  water.  When  cool,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract. 
— Sister  Ida  M.  Feslcr,  Longmont,  Colo. 

Plain  Cake. — Take  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  lard 
or  butter,  2/$  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Adaline  Huston,  Mishawaka, 
Ind. 

Pound  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  T/2  cup  of  butter,  IJ4 
cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Beat 
them  together  for  10  minutes,  and  add  %  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder. — Sister  Clara  Ringer,  Oregon,  III. 


284 


CAKES 


Old-time  Pound  Cake. — Take  1  pound  each  of  butter,  sugar 
and  flour,  10  eggs,  and  1  small  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
one  and  one-half  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. — Sister  Anna  Zimmer- 
man, Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Peanut  Cake. — Remove  the  brown  hulls  from  2  cupfuls  of 
shelled  peanuts,  chop  them  fine  and  slightly  flour.  Cream  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  y2  cup  of  butter  together;  beat  the  white  of  1  egg  until 
it  will  pile  up,  beat  the  yolk,  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat. 
Add  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2y2  cups  of  flour,  and  2  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste,  and  add  the  nuts  last. — 
Sister  Grace  GafUn  Price,  Oregon,  III. 

Potato  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups 
of  flour,  2  cups  of  warm  mashed  potatoes,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
4  eggs,  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts.  y2  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nut- 
meg, and  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. — Sister  Myrtle  Blocker, 
Greenville,  Ohio. 

A  Quick  Cake. — Break  2  eggs  in  a  teacup,  then  fill  up  with 
rich  sour  cream ;  add  1  teacupful  of  sugar,  1  of  flour,  and  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  all  together  and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake 
in  layers  and  dress  it  with  y2  teacupful  of  sugar  wet  with  sweet 
cream,  put  in  a  pan  and  boiled  thick.  Stir  to  keep  it  from  burning, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  banana. — Sister  Almeda  Caskey,  Coming, 
Iowa. 

Raised  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  bread  sponge,  1  cup  of  short- 
ening, 2  cups  of  sugar,  ^3  cup  of  raisins  (chop  or  grind  them  fine), 
2  cups  of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  and  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon.  Mix  all  together  and  bake.  Do  not  let  it  rise.  Do  not 
have  the  oven  too  hot.  It  is  better  baked  slowly. — Sister  Lottie  E. 
Perry,  Dodge  City,  Kans. 

Prince  of  Wales  Cake. — White  part:  Take  1  cup  of  white 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  whites 
of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Dark  part :  Take  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  sour 


CAKES 


285 


milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  milk,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  spices,  1  pound  of  raisins, 
and  34  pound  of  citron.  A  small  amount  of  black  pepper  improves 
it.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  icing. — Sister  Barbara 
Cidley,  Elgin,  III. 

Raisin  Loaf  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  bread  sponge,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  1  cup  of  raisins.  Add 
flour  as  needed  and  bake  in  a  mould. — Sister  John  E.  Metzger, 
Rossville,  Ind. 

Rebel  Cake. — Take  3  eggs,  2  teacups  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake 
in  jelly  tins. — Sister  M.  Kate  Crist,  Timberville,  Va. 

Ribbon  Cake. — Cream  well  together  1  cup  of  butter  with  2 
cups  of  sugar;  add  5  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  milk,  4  cups 
of  flour  well  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Take  x/z  of  the  cake  batter  and  add  to  it  1  cup 
of  chopped  raisins  and  citron,  and  a  little  spice.  Bake  in  3  jelly  tins, 
and  place  the  fruit  layer  in  the  middle. — Sister  L.  H.  Funk,  Kansas 
City,  Mo. 

Delicate  Ribbon  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour  and  3  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Divide  in  5  parts ;  for  the  brown  put  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa ;  for  the  pink,  a  teaspoonful  of  red 
sugar ;  for  the  yellow,  the  yolk  of  1  egg ;  for  the  salmon,  the  yolk  of 
1  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  red  sugar.  The  white  leave  as  it  is 
without  any  addition. — Sister  Medora  Wright,  Cottage  Grove,  Ind. 

Rubber  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Sift  together  12  times.  Then  add 
1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  beat  quite  awhile.  Add  the  beaten  whites 
of  7  eggs,  stir  lightly  and  bake  in  layers.  Filling:  Take  Yz  cup  of 
cold  sweet  cream,  stir  in  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  stiff 
enough  to  spread,  and  spread  between  the  layers.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla.— Sister  Glennie  Williams,  Richland,  Iowa, 


286 


CAKES 


Ribbon  Cake. — Take  V/2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  or  2  cups 
of  soft  white,  and  %  cup  of  butter  and  lard ;  beat  well,  then  mix  in 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  followed  by  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  4  even 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat  all  together,  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  mix  in  after  the  other  ingredients  are 
all  mixed.  Take  out  5  spoonfuls  of  batter  and  put  in  separate 
dishes,  and  put  the  rest  in  a  long,  flat  pan  ay  ell  greased  and  sprinkled 
with  flour.  For  the  red  part,  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  red  sugar  on 
the  stove  in  a  very  little  water;  for  the  salmon,  take  a  little  melted 
red  sugar  in  one  dish  of  dough  and  put  part  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  it.  Mix  well.  For  yellow,  take  yolk  of  1  egg  and  mix  well  in 
one  part.  For  spiced  part,  mix  in  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
For  the  remaining  part  put  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  chocolate  or 
cocoa  on  the  stove  to  melt  in  a  little  water,  just  enough  so  it  will 
not  burn.  Mix  thoroughly.  To  each  colored  part,  except  the  spiced, 
add  a  little  more  flour.  I  put  red  in  the  center  lengthwise  on  top 
of  the  white  batter.  Next  beside  the  red  I  put  spiced,  and  chocolate 
color  lengthwise.  On  the  other  side  of  spiced  and  chocolate  I  put 
yellow  and  salmon.  Then  put  into  the  oven  and  bake.  When 
baked  cover  the  top  with  icing.  This  cake  is  nicest  cut  in  slices 
crosswise. — Sister  G.  R.  Goughnour,  Canton,  Ohio. 

Favorite  Snow  Cake. — Beat  T/2  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
1  cup  of  flour  and  stir  thoroughly  together.  Add  T/2  cup  of  corn- 
starch, and  Yz  cup  of  sweet  milk  in  which  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder  have  been  dissolved.  Last  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and 
1  cup  of  sugar  well  beaten  together.  Flavor  to  taste,  and  bake  in 
a  loaf  cake. — Sister  Lizzie  Chamberlain,  Yale,  Iowa. 

A  Simple  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg  beaten,  1  scant 
cup  of  milk,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  2  cups  of  flour 
sifted  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste.  I  often 
divide  this  into  three  parts  and  put  2  teaspoons  of  powdered  choco- 
late in  one,  a  little  red  fruit  coloring  in  another,  and  with  the  plain 
this  makes  a  very  pretty  cake  and  pleases  the  children  very  much 


CAKES 


287 


for  picnic.  A  nice  icing  for  this  is  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  scant 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  just  enough  milk  to  wet  the  sugar.  Put 
on  the  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Then  beat  till  it  begins  to  hard- 
en, and  spread  on  the  cake. — Sister  Lulu  H addon,  Bremerton,  Wash- 
ington. 

.  Snow  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of  butter,  J/2 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  \y2  cups  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon. — Sister 
Susie  C.  East,  South  English,  Iowa. 

Spice  Cake. — Take  4  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  2,  2 
cups  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  melted  butter,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  \y2  teaspoonfuls 
of  cloves,  y2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  sour  milk.  Bake  in  layers.  Make  an  icing,  using 
the  2  whites  of  the  2  eggs  and  spread  between  the  layers. — Sister 
Katie  Shetter,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Spice  Cake. — Take  of  the  sponge  of  bread  just  ready  to 
stiffen  \y2  cupfuls,  \y2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  \y>  cupfuls  of  flour,  y2 
cup  of  lard  and  butter,  and  2  eggs.  Put  sugar,  lard  and  eggs  in 
sponge  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves 
and  y2  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  cupful 
of  raisins,  1  cupful  of  currants,  and  the  flour  last.  This  make's  a 
large  loaf  and  should  be  baked  nearly  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Try  with  a  splint. — Sister  Maggie  E.  Harrison,  Conemaugh,  Pa. 

Spice  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard,  iy2  cups 
of  buttermilk,  1  big  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves  and  1  cup 
of  raisins.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk  and  add  3  cups  of  flour. 
This  cake  should  be  made  several  days  before  using.  Keep  it  well 
wrapped  to  prevent  drying  out. — Sister  Belle  Porter,  Abbyville, 
Kans. 


288 


CAKES 


Spice  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 
2%  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  2  teaspoonf  uls  of.  ground  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  y2  nutmeg  grated,  white  of  1  egg  and 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Bake  either  in  layers  or  in  a  loaf. — Sister  Sara 
Reese  Eby,  West  Elkton,  Ohio. 

Spice  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  thick  milk,  and  in  part  of  the 
milk  dissolve  1  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  take  2  cups  heaped  full  of  dark- 
brown  sugar  (if  you  do  not  have  brown  sugar  you  can  use  Y\  cup 
of  molasses  and  V/z.  cups  of  white  sugar,  but  brown  sugar  is  better), 
and  mix  with  the  milk,  then  stir  in  4  eggs,  keeping  out  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  to  make  the  icing,  and  add  1  cup  of  melted  butter  and  lard. 
(The  lard  should  not  be  hot.)  Now  take  4  even  cups  of  flour  and 
mix  in  it  2  teaspoonfuls  of  good  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Then  mix 
all  together  until  it  becomes  a  smooth,  thick  batter.  You  need  not 
grease  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked,  but  instead  place  into  the 
pan  some  nice  clean  paper,  sufficient  to  cover  both  bottom  and  sides 
of  the  pan,  after  which  pour  in  the  batter  and  place  in  a  good  oven 
until  thoroughly  baked.  When  taking  the  cake  out  of  the  pan,  lift 
it  out  with  the  paper.  This  will  make  a  large  cake  and  should  be 
very  light  and  moist  when  baked.  Mix  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs 
with  pulverized  or  confectioners'  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top  of 
the  cake  while  hot.  This  is  a  very  elegant  cake. — Sister  Lovena 
Andes,  Elgin,  III. 

Spice  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter, 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, 2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  2. — Sister  Dora  Studebaker,  Whitewater, 
Ind 

Spice  Cake. — Take  1  pint  of  maple  syrup,  1  cup  of  good  thick 
sour  cream,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1^4  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  nutmeg,  and  allspice.  Flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter. — Sister  Elta  Ross,  Sidney,  Ind. 


CAKES 


289 


My  Choice"  Spice  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  and  2/$  of  a 
cup  of  lard,  beaten  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and 
beat  these  well  together.  Next  add  1  cup  of  thick  milk  or  butter- 
milk with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it.  1  large  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  2  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Lastly,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Bake  a 
sample  so  as  to  get  the  correct  amount  of  flour. — Sister  Dora  Sny- 
der, Brooki'ille,  Ohio. 

Sponge  Cake. — Take  2  eggs,  beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  most 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  rest  of 
the  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  more.  Then  put  the  whites  and  yolks  to- 
gether and  beat.  Add  a  cup  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  sift  together.  Stir  into  the  eggs  until  smooth.  Add 
any  flavoring  that  is  liked,  and  y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  quick- 
ly and  pour  into  an  ungreased  pan.  Bake  20  minutes  and  when 
baked  turn  upside  down  to  cool. — Sister  Etta  Martin,  Laurens,  Iowa. 

Sponge  Cake. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  cream  to- 
gether, 2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  well  beaten  together,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  lemon  to  flavor.  Stir  in  necessary 
amount  of  flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together,  then  add  milk 
and  eggs. — Sister  Jennie  G.  Dugan,  Listie,  Pa. 

Sponge  Cake. — Take  3  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  beat  the  yolks.  Put  them  together  and  beat  again.  Add  V/z 
cups  of  sugar  and  beat  again.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
sifted  into  I1/?  cups  of  flour,  sift  3  times.  Lastly  add  y2  cup  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  Bake  either  in  sheet  or  layers. — Sister  Kate  Riley,  High- 
land. Ohio. 

Simple  Sponge  Cake. — Beat  long  and  well  6  eggs  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Then  slowly  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  in  the 
same  manner  1  cup  of  flour.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Nora 
M.  Gauby,  Washington,  Kaiis. 


290 


CAKES 


Cream  Sponge  Cake, — Take  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
2  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der.— Sister  Emma  A.  Miller,  Sharpsburg,  Md. 

Surprise  Cake. — Take  1  whole  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another. 

2  cups  of  sifted  sugar  {V/2  cups  of  granulated),  1  tablespoonful  of 
soft  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour  measured  after  sift- 
ing with  2  large  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  1  cup  of  hick- 
ory-nut kernels  chopped  fine  and  mixed  in  last.  Bake  in  three  layers. 
Filling:  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and 
the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Flavor  and  sweeten  to  suit  taste.  If  outside  of 
cake  is  covered  with  icing,  save  some  of  the  nuts  to  put  in  it. — 
Sister  G.  R.  Goughnour,  Canton,  Ohio-. 

Thanksgiving  Cake. — Take  8  eggs  (beaten  separately V  1 
pound  of  butter,  2  pounds  of  dark  sugar.  1  pound  of  raisins.  1 
pound  of  figs,  1  pound  of  currants,  y>  pound  of  citron,  y2  cup  of 
molasses,  /2  cup  of  coffee,  2  pounds  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda, 
\y2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  V/2  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg,  \y2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  This  will  keep  3  months  if  kept  in  a  proper  place. — Sister  Net- 
tie Stine,  Leaf  River,  III. 

Tilden  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  cornstarch,  4  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  flavoring. — Sister 
/.  T.  Myers,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Tried  and  True  Cake. — White  Part :  The  whites  of  12  eggs. 

3  cups  of  sugar,  */  of  a  cup  of  butter,  iy2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  4y 
cups  of  flour,  and  A1/  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Yellow  Part : 
The  yolks  of  12  eggs,  3  cups  of  sugar,  /\  of  a  cup  of  butter,  V/2 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  A-/2  cups  of  flour,  and  A/2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly  mixed  and  beat  again  until  light.  Flavor  to  suit  the 
taste.  This  will  make  two  large,  or  three-medium  sized  cakes. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together,  alternating  the  white  and  the  yel- 
low parts. — Sister  Esther  Horner  Baker,  Baltic,  Ohio. 


CAKES 


291 


Quick  Tea  Cake.— Break  2  eggs  into  a  large  teacup.  Put  in 
with  the  eggs  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  then  fill  up  the  cup  with 
sweet  milk.  Pour  into  a  vessel  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1%  cups 
of  flour  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Do  not  stir  until  all 
the  ingredients  have  been  added,  then  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  lay- 
ers and  put  jelly  or  other  filling  between  layers. — Sister  Dessa  A. 
Kreps,  Independence.  Oregon. 

Union  Cake.— Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  4  eggs, 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  V2  cup  of  cornstarch,  2y2  cups  of  flour,  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Fold  the  beaten  whites  in  last. — 
Sister  Mary  C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Velvet  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  T/2  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  Zy2  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. — 
Sister  Alice  Roberts,  Ligonier,  Pa. 

Cold  Water  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of 
a  duck  egg,  1  cup  of  cold  water,  whites  of  6  eggs,  and  3  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Use  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  for  loaf 
cake  and  flavor  to  suit  the  taste  —Sister  Ira  Miller,  North  English, 
Iowa. 

Whipped  Cream  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  softened  butter,  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Beat  all 
well  together,  then  add  a  cup  of  flour  in  which  1  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder  has  been  sifted.  Bake  in  a  small  square  dripping  pan. 
When  the  cake  is  cool,  have  ready  y  pint  of  sweet  cream  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste ;  spread  over  cake  and 
serve  while  fresh.  Or  bake  the  same  in  small  round  gem  pans,  and 
when  cool  split  open  and  put  in  each  a  few  slices  of  ripe  banana. 
Put  in  a  dessert  dish  and  put  the  whipped  cream  over.  A  little  more 
cream  will  have  to  be  used  in  the  latter  case. — Sister  Sarah  Wit- 
more  Harnly,  McPherson,  Kans. 


292 


CAKES 


White  Cake. — Take  iy2  cups  of  soft  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter 
as  big  as  a  duck  egg:  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  1  cup  of 
water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  batter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. — Sister  Xola  Graves,  Cottage  Grove,  Lid. 

White  Cake. — Take  V/2  cups  of  flour,  sifted  seven  times.  1 
cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  these  together  thor- 
oughly and  let  cool.  Then  add  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  While  the  above  cools  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  very 
stiff  and  then  just  fold  into  the  above  batter,  stirring  as  lightly  and 
little  as  possible.  Have  your  cake  tins  lined  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  is  much  like  angel  food  but  much 
cheaper. — Sister  Martha  E.  Lear,  Cerro  Gordo,  111. 

White  Cake. — Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs.  2  cups  of  sugar, 
y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  3  cups  of  flour,  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder.  Mix  well  sugar  and  butter,  and  the 
whites  well  beaten,  add  milk,  then  flour  with  baking  powder.  Can 
be  used  as  jelly  or  solid  cake. — Sister  Iva  C.  Metzger,  Rossi  ille, 
Lid. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  73  cup  of 
butter,  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix  in  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  1 
cup  of  cornstarch,  7^  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  last  put  in  the  whites 
of  7  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  on  icing  and  cocoa- 
nut. — Sister  Ida  E.  Gibble,  Lykens,  Pa. 

White  Layer  Cake. — Beat  V/z  cups  of  sugar  and  Yi  cup  of 
butter  together,  then  add  Y\  cup  of  milk.  After  adding  2  cups  of 
flour,  beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  put  in  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. — Sister  Etta  Fox  Kreider, 
Shannon,  111. 

Cream  for  Cake— Take  1  pint  of  sweet  cream,  1  cup  01 
sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  2 
eggs.    Boil  together. — Sister  F.  Alice  Davidson,  Centropolis,  Kans. 


CAKES 


293 


Burnt  Caramel. — Pour  1  cup  of  sugar  into  a  granite  sauce- 
pan and  stir  over  fire  until  sugar  melts  and  becomes  a  liquid  throw- 
ing off  a  smoke.  Have  ready  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Remove  the 
pan  from  fire  and  pour  in  water  and  then  place  it  on  the  fire  and 
stir  rapidly  until  it  becomes  like  a  syrup.  Put  in  glass  jar  for  future 
use.  This  is  enough  caramel  for  6  cakes. — Sister  Minerva  M.  Metz- 
ger,  Cerro  Gordo,  III.  . 

Made  Cream  for  Layer  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  milk,  y2  cup 
of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  First 
heat  the  milk  and  sugar  to  boiling,  then  moisten  the  flour  with  cold 
milk  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  When  partly  cold,  add  the  va- 
nilla and  spread  on  the  cake. — Sister  M.  C.  Whitesel,  Wayside, 
Wash. 

Boiled  Icing. — Take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  to  y2 
cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  till  it  threads,  beat  thoroughly  and 
spread  on  cake. — Sister  Mary  C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Boiled  Icing. — As  soon  as  the  cake  is  taken  from  the  oven, 
break  the  whites  of  2  large  fresh  eggs  into  a  medium-sized  meat 
platter.  When  beaten  stiff,  place  a  scant  teacupful  of  granulated 
sugar  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  on  the  stove,  and  boil 
quickly  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Then  pour  it  slowly  over 
the  beaten  whites,  beating  quickly  all  the  time  until  perfectly  mixed. 
Flavor  to  suit  taste,  and  spread  on  cake  immediately.  It  will  be  as 
smooth  as  satin  in  a  few  minutes. — Sister  Mary  P.  Ellenberger, 
Turney,  Mo. 

Caramel  Icing. — Take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
milk,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  boil  till  thick  and  flavor  with 
vanilla. — Sister  Mary  C.  Hoke,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Caramel  Filling. — Take  5  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  1  cup 
of  sugar ;  boil  till  thick. — Sister  Cora  Shaffer,  Odell,  Nebr. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Take  5  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cream,  1  egg,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  until  it 
bubbles,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  Lydia  Jordan,  Wiley,  Ohio. 


294 


CAKES 


Chocolate  Filling  for  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  soft  white  sugar. 
J4  cake  of  chocolate,  1  egg  unbeaten  and  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
cream.  Mix  all  together  and  put  on  to  cook  in  a  double  boiler  be- 
fore you  begin  your  cake.  If  it  gets  too  thick  add  more  cream. 
This  will  get  smooth  and  glossy  and  will  not  crumble  when  cake  is 
cut. — Sister  Anna  E.  Underzvood,  Fleming,  Pa. 

Cocoa  Filling. — Take  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cocoa,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  enough  coffee  to 
wet;  add  vanilla  and  spread  on  cake. — Sister  Sarah  Deutschman, 
Elwood,  III. 

Frosting  for  Burnt  Sugar  Cake. — Place  in  a  sauce  pan  1 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  burnt  sugar  syrup  (see  recipe  for  burnt  sugar 
cake).  Boil  until  it  forms  a  ball  of  wax  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Have  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
so  stiff  that  you  can  pile  it  up.  Xow  pour  the  syrup  over  the 
egg  very  slowly,  beating  briskly  all  the  while.  If  the  frost- 
ing appears  too  thin,  continue  beating  until  the  right  consistency,  or 
until  it  is  entirely  cold.  If  quite  stiff  to  begin  with,  it  should  not 
be  beaten  much.  Place  between  and  on  top  of  layers  with  a  silver 
knife  dipped  in  water. — Sister  Minnie  Replogle.  Mount  Morris,  III. 

Fruit  Filling  for  Cake. — Take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  citron  cut 
very  fine,  the  same  amount  of  raisins,  J/2  cup  of  nuts,  and  %  pound 
of  figs.  Have  all  cut  up  very  fine.  Put  just  enough  water  over  the 
fruit  to  soak  it.  Let  stand  for  an  hour,  then  simmer  slowly,  until  it 
seems  cooked  enough.  Beat  up  1  egg.  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  with 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  mixed  in  it.  Put  the  nuts.  egg. 
sugar  and  cornstarch  into  the  fruit  and  let  scald  well,  then  cool  and 
spread  on  the  cake.  It  is  fine. — Sister  I.  P.  Holsinger,  Mount  Mor- 
ris, III. 

Icing  for  Cake. — Take  the  white  of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
and  1  cup  of  berries.  Whip  to  a  cream.  One  cup  of  grated 
apple  may  be  used  instead  of  the  berries. — Sister  Sadie  Shank. 
NofuSj  Idaho. 


CAKES 


295 


Good  Cake  Filling. — Take  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  melted  chocolate.  Cream 
this  together  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  just  enough 
strong  coffee  to  make  it  the  right  consistency  to  spread. — Sister 
D.  E.  Yeager,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Hickorynut  Icing. — Take  1  cup  of  ground  nut  meats,  1  cup 
of  sweet  cream  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  slowly  until  it  thickens. 
Be  careful  not  to  scorch. — Sister  Mary  Bntterbaiigh,  Polo,  III. 

Icing  without  Eggs. — Take  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and 
dampen  with  %  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Stir  till  it  boils.  Let  it  boil  4 
minutes  without  stirring,  then  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  set  the 
dish  in  another  of  cold  water,  and  add  flavoring  while  cooling.  Stir 
or  beat  it  until  it  becomes  a  thick,  creamy  frosting. — Sister  Lizzie 
Chamberlain,  Yale,  Iowa. 

Lemon  Cake  Filling. — To  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 
lemon  add  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Boil  till  thick  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. — 
Sister  Stella  G.  Turner,  Iliff,  Colo. 

Malaga  Filling. — Seed  and  chop  fine  1  cup  of  raisins,  mix 
with  icing  and  place  between  the  layers  of  cake. — Sister  Edna 
Crowe,  Des  Moines,  Iozva. 

A  Nice  Cake  Filling. — Boil  together  V/2  cups  of  light  brown 
sugar  and  cup  of  sweet  cream.  '  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Sister  L. 
Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Nut  Filling  for  Cake. — Take  1  cup  of  nuts,  chopped  (not 
too  fine),  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  cream,  then  let  come  to  a  boil, 
stirring  constantly,  if  not  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  nuts  just  before 
removing  from  the  stove.  Let  cool  slightly  before  dressing  the 
cake. — Sister  Addie  Bales,  Ollie,  Iowa. 

Sea  Foam  Icing. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  the  white 
of  1  egg.  Add  a  little  water  to  sugar  and  let  boil  until  it  will  spin 
a  thread  in  cold  water.  Have  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  add  the 
boiled  sugar  to  the  egg  slowly  and  beat. — Sister  Mary  Christner, 
Cerro  Gordo,  III. 


296  CAKES 


CAKES  297 


298 


CAKES 


Pickles  possess  very  little  food  value,  their  chief  service  being 
that  of  a  stimulant  or  relish,  and  their  part  in  the  bill  of  fare 
should  therefore  not  be  large.  A  porcelain-lined  kettle  or  one  of  good 
granite  should  be  used  in  making  pickles.  Use  good  cider  vinegar, 
if  possible,  as  other  vinegar  frequently  softens  or  eats  the  pickles. 
Do  not  have  the  vinegar  too  strong;  it  is  injurious  to  the  lining  of 
the  stomach.  Mustard  seed,  used  in  seasoning  pickles,  helps  to  pre- 
vent mould.  Horseradish  also  has  the  same  effect  and  helps  to  pre- 
serve the  strength  of  the  vinegar.  Grape  leaves  assist  in  keeping 
the  pickles  green  and  also  tend  to  keep  them  firm.  Scalding  the 
vinegar  and  pouring  it  over  the  pickles  for  successive  days  also 
makes  them  firm  and  crisp.  If  one  does  not  wish  to  seal  pickles 
in  glass  jars  they  may  be  kept  in  earthen  jars.  After  the  pickles 
are  made  and  put  in  the  jars,  cover  with  a  layer  of  grape  leaves; 
then  cover  the  jar  with  a  layer  of  sheet  wadding  cut  large  enough 
to  extend  over  the  edge  and  tie  down  with  a  cloth  or  paper  over  the 
top  of  it.  The  jars  may  also  be  tied  up  with  a  cloth  spread  thickly 
with  mixed  mustard.  With  some  pickle  recipes  the  pickles  will 
keep  in  earthen  jars  indefinitely  without  these  precautions. 

Pickled  Artichokes. — Wash  and  scrape  about  J/2  gallon  of 
artichokes,  cutting  the  larger  in  two.  Cover  with  water,  drain  the 
water  and  measure  it.  Take  the  same  quantity  of  vinegar;  if  too 
sharp,  dilute  it;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  (  the  latter  may 
be  whole  or  ground),  and  pour  over  the  artichokes  in  a  granite  ket- 
tle. Boil  about  5  minutes.  If  wanted  for  immediate  use,  put  in  a 
crock  the  same  as  beet  pickles.  If  desired  to  be  kept  indefinitely, 
put  in  air-tight  jars. — Sister  Sarah  Hohf,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

299 


300 


PICKLES 


Apple  Pickles. — Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  2  cups 
of  sugar,  2  cups  of  vinegar,  and  1  cup  water.  Boil  your  apples  in 
this  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  fork.  Fill  jars  with  the 
apples,  cover  with  the  hot  vinegar,  and  seal.  Sweet  apples  make 
the  best  pickles. — Sister  E.  S.  Moore,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Spiced  Apples. — Select  perfect,  round  and  well-matured 
sweet  apples.  Take  j£  pint  of  vinegar,  1  pint  of  sugar,  1  pint  of 
water,  and  place  in  an  earthen  or  agate  vessel.  Boil  for  10  or  15 
miuutes,  then  add  3  drops  each  of  cinnamon  and  clove  oil,  and  drop 
in  the  apples.  Boil  until  the  apples  are  soft  through.  Cinnamon 
bark  and  whole  cloves  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  oil,  as  preferred. 
If  vinegar  or  oil  is  not  strong,  use  enough  to  season. — Sister  Lottie 
Replogle,  Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 

Pickled  String  Beans. — Boil  beans  in  water  to  which  has 
been  added  a  little  salt,  till  just  a  trifle  tender,  and  drain  very  care- 
fully. Put  into  glass  cans,  and  after  filling  them  stand  them  upside 
down,  to  be  sure  to  get  all  the  water  out.  Then  cover  with  hot 
vinegar  flavored  with  whole  spices.  Seal  up  while  hot. — Sister 
Laura  E.  Goetze,  Saratoga,  Wyo. 

Pickled  Beets. — Wash  and  trim  the  tops  from  as  many  beets 
as  desired ;  drop  them  into  hot  water  and  boil  rapidly  until  they  can 
easily  be  pierced  with  a  broom  straw ;  then  peel  and  quarter  or  slice 
as  preferred;  have  ready  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  place  on 
the  fire  and  heat  thoroughly ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each 
quart  of  vinegar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
pour  over  the  beets. — Sister  Clara  Kreighbaum,  South  Bend,  Ind. 

Beet  Pickles. — Cook  the  beets  till  tender.  To  one  quart  of 
water  take  3  cups  of  good  vinegar,  4  cups  of  sugar,  and  ground  all- 
spice and  cloves  to  taste.  Peel  and  slice  the  beets,  put  them  into 
the  boiling  vinegar,  let  them  heat  through,  then  put  them  into  hot 
jars,  cover  with  the  vinegar  and  seal.  When  cold  set  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  These  are  as  good  as  any  fruit. — Sister  R.  D.  Kirendall, 
Niotazc,  Kans. 


PICKLES 


301 


Beet  Pickles. — Take  1  quart  of  cabbage  chopped  or  ground, 
1  quart  of  beets  chopped  or  ground,  1  cup  of  horse-radish,  1  cup  of 
vinegar,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.  Red  cabbage  is  preferred  for  this.  Seal  up 
cold. — Sister  Orvilla  C.  Ogle,  Adams,  Nebr. 

To  Can  Red  Beets. — Cook  the  beets  first,  then  peel  and  slice 
in  slices  about  half  inch  thick,  more  or  less,  just  as  you  like.  Then 
heat  one  quart  vinegar,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
pepper  as  you  like.  Put  the  beets  in  this  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
put  in  glass  jars,  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  and  seal  up  as  fruit. 
This  amount  of  vinegar  and  seasoning  will  can  four  quarts  of  beets. 
— Sister  Delia  Smith,  El  dor  a,  Iowa. 

Canned  Young  Beets. — Cook  young  beets  till  tender,  peel 
and  fill  glass  jars,  sprinkling  with  a  little  salt.  Take  \y2  cups  of 
sugar  and  1  quart  of  vinegar ;  let  boil  and  pour  over  the  beets.  This 
is  for  2  quarts  of  pickles.  These  are  as  fine  as  fresh  beets. — Sister 
Jennie  Sheeler,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Beet  Ghow  Chow. — Cook  the  beets  until  tender,  then  chop 
real  fine  and  mix  with  finely-chopped  cabbage.  Take  equal  parts  of 
beets  and  cabbage  and  to  1  quart  of  the  mixture  add  1  cup  of  sugar ; 
1  tablespoon  of  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, put  in  glass  jars  and  then  fill  the  jars  with  cold  vinegar  and 
seal  tight.  This  will  keep  like  any  other  chow  chow. — Sister  L.  C. 
Beam,  Elgin,  III. 

Red  Beet  Relish. — Take  1  quart  of  chopped  red  beets,  1 
quart  of  chopped  cabbage,  1  cup  of  grated  horse-radish,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Pour 
on  vinegar  and  mix  thoroughly.  Can  cold.  None  of  the  ingredi- 
ents is  cooked  except  the  red  beets  which  should  be  cooked  before 
they  are  chopped. — Sister  John  D.  Clear,  Rockford,  III. 


302 


PICKLES 


Beet  Salad. — Take  2  quarts  of  cooked  beets  chopped  when 
cool,  2  quarts  of  raw  cabbage  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  ground  horse- 
radish, 3  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful 
of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves,  or  other  spices,  to  suit  the  taste ;  1 
cup  of  vinegar  to  each  quart  of  ingredients.  Mix  beets,  cabbage 
and  horse-radish  together  and  sprinkle  over  a  little  pepper.  Boil 
the  spices  and  sugar  in  the  vinegar  about  five  minutes.  Pour  over 
the  mixture  and  can.  This  is  extra  good. — Sister  Salome  Bailsman, 
Sabetha,  Kans. 

A  Good  Pickle. — Cut  a  head  of  cabbage  into  neat  pieces, 
plunge  into  briskly  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  until  tender. 
Drain  and  cover  with  sweetened  vinegar,  with  pepper  or  celery 
seed  as  flavoring.  Then  putting  into  boiling  water  and  rapid  boiling, 
will  prevent  the  cabbage  from  discoloration. — Sister  M.  A.  Snyder, 
Bradford,  Ohio-. 

Canteloupe  Pickle. — For  7  pounds  of  canteloupe  take  4 
pounds  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  vinegar.  Cut  the  canteloupe  in  pieces 
about  5  inches  long  and  2  inches  wide,  lay  in  weak  vinegar  over 
night,  and  drain  in  a  colander  for  ]/2  hour.  Boil  the  vinegar  and 
sugar  for  3  mornings.  The  third  morning  put  the  canteloupe  in 
the  vinegar  and  boil  until  tender.  Spice  to  taste  with  cinnamon. — 
Sister  W .  S.  Reichard,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

Celery  Pickle. — Chop  fine  enough  cabbage  to  fill  a  quart 
bowl,  after  it  is  salted  slightly  and  all  the  wTater  pressed  out.  Chop 
enough  celery  to  fill  a  quart  bowl,  but  do  not  press.  Now  put  the 
two  in  a  mixing  bowl  with  ]/2  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  a  dessert  spoon  of  Jamaica  ginger,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
mustard  seed.  Mix  well  and  add  a  pint  of  good  vinegar. — Sister  N. 
/.  Roop,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

To  Pickle  Celery. — Take  good  bleached  celery,  cut  in  pieces 
about  2  inches  long,  boil  in  water  till  tender.  Take  out  and  drain, 
then  pour  over  the  celery  boiling  vinegar  which  has  been  sweetened 


PICKLES 


303 


a  little.  Put  in  glass  jars  and  it  is  ready  for  use  any  time. — Sister 
Perry  Broadn'atcr,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Pickles. — Put  fresh  cucumbers  in  warm  brine  and  let  stand 
24  hours,  then  dry  them  with  a  towel  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar. 
Put  in  a  layer  of  the  cucumbers,  then  a  layer  of  horseradish  cut 
lengthwise,  with  a  few  grape  or  bay  leaves.  Take  vinegar  enough 
to  cover  the  pickles,  season  with  brown  sugar  and  mixed  spices  to 
taste ;  heat  to  boiling  point,  skim  and  pour  over  pickles.  Repeat 
heating  vinegar  3  mornings.  Cover  with  grape  or  bay  leaves  and 
tie  up  for  use.  Pickles  put  up  this  way  will  keep  all  winter. — Sister 
Amanda  Brown,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Pickles. — To  pickle  cucumbers  for  winter,  take  1  gallon 
of  vinegar,  3  gallons  of  water,  3  quarts  of  fine  salt,  and  y2  pound 
of  alum.  Wash  the  cucumbers  and  cover  with  this  pickle.  When 
wanted  for  use  wash  and  put  in  vinegar. — Sister  Cora  Sell  Brn- 
baker,  Hollidaysburg,  Pa. 

Best  Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  1  cup  of  salt,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  ground  mustard,  and  1  gallon  of  vinegar.  Wash  the  cu- 
cumbers and  put  in  cold.  Let  stand  a  couple  of  days,  and  they  are 
ready  for  use. — Sister  Lauren  T.  Miller,  Elgin,  III. 

Canning  Cucumbers. — Wash  the  cucumbers,  place  in  a  ket- 
tle and  cover  with  cider  vinegar.  Add  3  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  mixed  spices,  peppers,  and  to  each  can  of  cucumbers  add  8 
onion  sets.  Heat  gradually  till  hot  through.  Fill  the  cans  with  cu- 
cumbers, then  heat  the  vinegar  to  a  boil  and  fill  up  the  can.  Seal 
at  once. — Sister  Mollie  Conway,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

Canned  Pickles. — Take  vinegar  and  water  equal  parts,  add 
salt  according,  put  the  pickles  in  and  let  them  come  nearly  to  a  boil. 
Then  put  them  in  jars  and  take  proportions  of  1  pint  of  water  and  2 
of  vinegar.  Let  boil,  pour  over  pickles  and  seal. — Sister  D.  F. 
Kelly,  North  Georgetown,  Ohio. 


304 


PICKLES 


To  Can  Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  small  green  cucumbers, 
wash  and  place  in  salt  water,  over  night,  then  remove  from  the  salt 
water  and  put  into  boiling  vinegar.  Let  them  get  hot  through,  but 
not  boil.  Place  in  glass  cans  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  with  spices 
to  suit  taste  over  the  cucumbers,  and  seal. — Sister  Adaline  Huston, 
Mishawaka,  Ind. 

To  Can  Cucumber  Pickles. — Fill  a  jar  with  cucumbers  just 
from  the  vine,  cover  with  salt  water,  let  stand  over  night  and  in  the 
morning  drain.  Take  about  3  pints  of  vinegar,  about  }4  cup  of 
sugar  (use  sugar  according  to  taste),  and  some  horseradish.  Let 
vinegar  and  sugar  come  to  a  boil;  then  pour  over  pickles  and  seal 
while  hot. — Sister  F.  Alice  Davidson,  Centropolis,  Kans. 

To  Can  Cucumber  Pickles. — First  you  must  have  good,  sour 
vinegar,  or  the  pickles  will  not  keep.  Wash  cucumbers  as  soon  as 
possible  after  picking  and  put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  Take  two- 
thirds  vinegar  and  one-third  water,  pour  over  the  cucumbers  and 
add  sugar,  salt  and  spices  to  suit  the  taste.  We  like  them  sweet; 
also  celery  cut  up  fine  and  put  in.  Now  put  all  over  the  fire,  stir  the 
cucumbers  while  heating  all  the  time,  and  just  as  soon  as  they  begin 
to  change  color  from  green  to  yellow,  take  the  kettle  off  the  fire  and 
pack  the  pickles  in  cans  tightly.  Then  put  the  kettle  with  the  vine- 
gar back  on  the  fire,  let  boil  five  minutes  and  pour  over  pickles  and 
seal  up,  and  you  will  have  good,  crisp,  solid  pickles  that  will  keep. 
The  main  points  are  to  use  strong  vinegar  and  not  let  the  cucumbers 
get  too  hot  before  packing  in  cans.  The  large  cucumbers  we  peel 
and  slice  one-half  inch  thick  and  proceed  same  as  with  whole  cucum- 
bers. We  like  them  'most  better  than  die  whole  cucumbers. — Sister 
Martin  Moyer,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Cold  Pickles. — One  cup  of  yellow  mustard,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  salt.  Put  all  in  a  stone  jar  with  1  gallon  of  vinegar.  Wash 
the  pickles  and  put  in  the  jar,  stirring  them  every  day  for  a  week. 
Tie  a  cloth  over  them. — Sister  Bernice  Ashmore,  St.  Peter,  Minn. 


PICKLES  305 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  1  gallon  of  cold  vinegar,  1  cup  of 
salt,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  1  cup  of  ground  mustard.  Mix  the  mus- 
tard with  a  little  of  the  vinegar  and  work  it  to  a  smooth  paste  before 
stirring  it  in.  Wash  your  cucumbers  and  put  them  into  this  cold 
mixture.  Place  a  plate  on  top  to  hold  the  cucumbers  under  the  vine- 
gar. They  need  not  be  sealed  and  will  keep  a  long  time  if  the  in- 
gredients are  good. — Sister  Katie  Moore  Strickler,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  a  teacupful  of  salt  to  1  gallon  of 
cucumbers,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  enough  to  cover,  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Then  rinse  and  drain.  Heat  cider  vinegar  almost 
to  boiling,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  heat  through  and  put  in  glass  jars. 
If  wanted  quite  sour,  have  other  vinegar  heated  to  boiling  and  pour 
over  them.  Put  in  spices  and  also  horseradish  to  keep  from  mould- 
ing, then  seal. — Sister  Mary  Reddick,  Sheridan,  Mo. 

To  Pickle  Cucumbers. — To  every  gallon  of  vinegar  (strong) 
add  1  cup  of  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum.  Mix  these 
well  in  the  vinegar.  Wash  the  cucumbers  and  pack  in  stone  jars. 
Around  the  jar  and  between  each  layer  put  grape  leaves,  also  be- 
tween each  layer  put  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  horse-radish.  Then 
pour  on  the  vinegar  (not  heated). — Sister  C.  D.  Bonsack,  Union 
Bridge,  Md. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickle. — Take  ripe  cucumbers,  pare,  and  re- 
move the  seeds,  and  soak  over  night  in  salt  water  with  a  little  alum 
in  it.  Steam  till  tender,  not  soft.  Boil  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  2 
quarts  of  vinegar  15  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.— Sister 
Flora  Doughty,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Spiced  Ripe  Cucumbers. — Pare,  remove  seeds,  and  cut  in 
small  pieces  one-half  dozen  cucumbers.  Parboil  in  salt  water  and 
drain.  Prepare  syrup  of  2  pints  of  vinegar,  5  pints  of  sugar,  and 
1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Tie  the  spices 
in  a  bag.  Boil  the  cucumbers  in  the  syrup  till  they  can  be  pierced 
easily  with  a  fork,  leaving  spices  in  the  syrup.  Seal  in  fruit  jars 
while  hot. — Sister  Grace  Holsinger  Butterbaugh,  Elgin,  III. 


306 


PICKLES 


Cucumber  Sweet  Pickles. — Gather  small  cucumbers  iresh 
from  the  vines,  wash  them  and  put  into  gallon  jars.  To  each  gal- 
lon put  a  small  cup  of  salt,  then  cover  with  hot  water  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  to  each  gallon  take  2  quarts 
of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  spices,  or 
"  spice  to  suit  taste."  Put  this  over  the  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
put  in  the  cucumbers.  Let  them  heat  through,  not  boil.  Can  while 
hot. — Sister  Carrie  Martin,  Mankato,  Kans. 

Spiced  Currants. — To  1  gallon  of  prepared  currants  take  3 
pounds  of  white  sugar,  1  pint  of  good  vinegar  and  1  tablespoonful 
each  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  ginger.  Put  the  vine- 
gar in  a  porcelain  stewpan ;  add  the  sugar  and  melt.  Put  the  spices 
in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and  drop  into  the  syrup.  Bring  to  a  boil,  skim, 
and  put  in  the  ripe  fruit.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  skim  the  fruit 
out,  and  boil  syrup  thick.  Pour  over  the  fruit  and  put  spice  bag  on 
top. — Sister  M.  E.  Rothrock,  Hartland,  Wash. 

Pickled  Eggs. — Boil  12  eggs  20  minutes,  then  place  them 
into  cold  water  a  few  minutes  so  they  will  peel  easily.  After  they 
are  peeled  put  in  a  jar.  Take  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  yi  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Bring 
this  to  a  good  boil  and  pour  over  eggs  in  jar  and  seal. — Sister  L. 
Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Pickled  Grapes. — Take  ripe  grapes,  pick  off  carefully  so  as 
not  to  burst  them  if  possible.  Wash  them,  fill  glass  jars  and  put  3 
or  4  cloves  on  top  of  grapes.  Make  a  syrup  of  2  pints  of  vinegar, 
y2  pint  of  water  and  4  pints  of  sugar,  and  pour  into  filled  jars  while 
syrup  is  hot  and  seal.  This  will  make  4  to  6  jars  (quart).  To 
serve,  put  grapes  with  some  of  the  juice  into  side  dishes  and  eat 
with  meats. — Sister  W.  J.  Haynes,  MoorcHcld,  Nebr. 

Sweet  Pickled  Muskmelon. — Take  any  kind  of  good  ripe 
melon,  peel  and  slice,  not  too  thin.  Boil  together  five  or  ten  min- 
utes 1  quart  of  vinegar  and  1  quart  of  sugar.  Drop  in  the  sliced 
muskmelon  and  boil  till  tender.  Last  of  all,  drop  in  whole  cloves 
and  cinnamon  bark.    Let  all  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  then  put  in 


PICKLES 


307 


jars  ar;d  seal,  and  you  have  as  nice  a  pickle  as  peaches. — Sister 
Susie  Smith,  Conway  Springs,  Kans. 

Pickled  Onions. — Cook  onions  in  salt  water  till  tender,  and 
put  into  a  jar.  Take  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  to  taste.  Heat  the 
vinegar,  pour  over  the  onions  hot  until  they  are  covered,  then  seal 
up.  Vinegar  of  red  beets  gives  them  a  nice  color. — Sister  C.  B. 
Smith,  Red  Cloud,  Nebr. 

Peach  Mangoes. — Take  good,  firm  peaches,  wash  and  cut 
into  halves,  removing  the  pit.  Make  a  mixture  of  grated  horse- 
radish and  mustard  seed.  Fill  y2  the  peach  and  put  together  by 
sticking  a  toothpick  through,  or  tie  together.  Prepare  the  vinegar 
as  for  any  spiced  fruit. — Sister  Guy  E.  Foresman,  Lafayette,  Ind. 

Spiced  Peaches. — To  7  pounds  of  peaches  take  3  pounds  of 
sugar  and  1  quart  of  vinegar ;  spice  with  cinnamon  bark.  Boil  the 
sugar,  spice  and  vinegar  together.  After  these  are  well  boiled,  put 
in  the  peaches  and  leave  in  until  tender  enough,  then  pour  them  into 
either  a  jar  or  crock  as  desired.  When  cold  they  are  ready  for  use. 
— Sister  D.  A.  Thomas,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

Sweet  Peach  Pickle. — Take  J/2  gallon  of  peaches,  washed 
and  peeled,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  pound  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon  buds.  Put  vinegar,  sugar  and  peaches  over  the  fire 
and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil;  then  put  in  a  jar  and  seal. — Sister  Mary 
Gibbet,  Inavale,  Nebr. 

Spiced  Pears. — Pare  the  pears  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  To 
8  pounds  of  fruit  take  4  pounds  of  the  best  brown  sugar,  1  quart  of 
cider  vinegar  and  1  cupful  of  mixed  spices  (whole),  cassia  buds, 
cloves,  stick  cinnamon,  mace  and  allspice.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  bag,  and 
boil  with  the  vinegar  and  sugar  ;  skim.  Pack  the  fruit  in  a  jar,  and 
pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  it.  Repeat  this  for* 3  mornings,  unless 
pears  are  hard,  when  they  should  be  boiled  in  the  syrup  3  minutes. 
They  can  be  canned,  but  will  keep  in  a  jar.  Leave  the  bag  of  spices 
in  the  syrup. — Sister  S.  E.  Chafin,  Roanoke,  Va. 


308 


PICKLES 


Pickled  Pears. — Take  1  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  4  pounds 
of  sugar,  8  pounds  of  pears,  and  spices  to  taste.  Boil  the  pears  in 
the  mixture  until  soft,  then  take  them  out,  and  boil  the  syrup  until 
quite  thick,  then  pour  it  over  the  pears. — Sister  John  Barker,  Fair- 
view,  Oregon. 

Mango  Recipe. — Cut  fine  the  amount  of  cabbage  needed, 
salt  it  and  work  well  with  the  hands,  press  :he  water  out,  then  mix 
in  plenty  of  brown  mustard  seed.  Fill  the  mangoes  (which  should 
be  previously  salted  over  night  in  scalding  water).  Place  them  in 
a  jar  and  take  strong  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them.  For  a  gallon 
jar  take  a  pint  of  sugar  and  dissolve  in  a  little  hot  water,  then  add 
to  the  vinegar. — Sister  Kate  Royer,  Celina,  Ohio. 

Sweet  Pickle. — To  7  pounds  of  fruit  take  3  pounds  of  sugar 
and  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  1  ounce  of  cloves. 
Put  the  fruit  into  a  jar  and  make  a  syrup  of  the  vinegar  and  sugar. 
Strain,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  boiling  hot.  Let  them  stand  24 
hours,  then  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  and  pour  it  on  them  again  and 
let  stand  another  24  hours.  Then  pour  fruit  and  all  into  a  kettle 
and  simmer  slowly  until  done. — Sister  Hettie  Engel,  Darlow,  Kans. 

Sweet  Pickles. — Take  9  pounds  of  fruit,  3  pounds  of  sugar, 
1  pint  of  best  cider  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  cloves  and  1  ounce  of  cin- 
namon. Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar;  heat,  with  spices  tied 
in  a  loose  cloth ;  then  put  fruit  in  and  make  hot.  Can  up  for  future 
use.    Very  delicious. — Sister  Mary  Gibson,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Sweet  Pickles. — Take  25  small  cucumbers,  1  quart  of  small 
onions,  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes  (cut  fine),  1  quart  of  string  beans 
(cooked  tender),  2  heads  of  celery  and  2  heads  of  cauliflower. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  enough  to  make  a  weak  brine,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Let  come  to  a  boil  in  the  same  water 
and  drain  in  a  colander.  Let  3  quarts  of  vinegar  come  to  a  boil,  mix 
V2  ounce  of  tumeric  and  3  cups  of  sugar.  Let  boil  again,  and  while 
hot  pour  over  the  vegetables. — Sister  Martha  Reiff  Tobias,  Camden, 
Ind. 


PICKLES 


309 


Spiced  Plums. — Take  8  pounds  of  plums  (we  use  Miners), 
4  pounds  of  sugar,  2  quarts  of  good  cider  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  cloves, 
and  1  ounce  of  cinnamon.  Boil  the  syrup  thick,  then  put  in  the 
plums  and  boil  until  done. — Sister  E.  S.  Moore,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Chow  Chow. — Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  ]/2  peck  of 
onions,  3  heads  of  cabbage,  %  peck  of  carrots  and  10  heads  of  cel- 
ery. Chop  fine,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  carefully.  Take 
vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and  2  cups  of  sugar.  Mix  celery  and  mus- 
tard seed  with  ingredients  and  other  mixed  spices  tied  in  a  piece  of 
muslin.  Boil  all  together  until  tender.  Can  while  hot. — Sister 
Emma  Carstensen,  Girard,  III. 

English  Chow  Chow. — Take  1  quart  of  small  cucumbers  not 
over  2  inches  long,  2  quarts  of  small  white  onions,  2  quarts  of  ten- 
der string  beans  each  one  cut  in  halves,  3  quarts  of  green  tomatoes 
sliced  and  chopped  very  coarsely,  and  2  heads  of  cauliflower  cut  in 
small  pieces,  or  2  heads  of  cabbage.  Put  all  into  a  stone  jar.  Mix 
together  and  sprinkle  salt  between  sparingly  ;  let  stand  24  hours, 
then  drain  off  the  brine  and  put  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire.  Add  1 
ounce  of  tumeric,  6  red  peppers  chopped  coarsely,  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  celery  seed,  whole  cloves, 
and  whole  allspice,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2/z  cup  of  ground  mixed  mus- 
tard. Pour  on  enough  vinegar  to  cover  well,  cover  the  kettle  and 
simmer  until  all  is  tender,  stirring  often.  Seal  in  bottles  or  glass 
jars. — Sister  W.  S.  Reichard,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

French  Chow  Chow. — Take  1  quart  of  cucumbers  cut  not 
very  fine,  1  quart  each  of  small  cucumbers,  onions,  green  tomatoes 
and  4  sweet  peppers.  Put  all  together  and  cover  with  a  brine  made 
of  1  gallon  of  water  and  1  cup  of  salt.  Soak  4  hours,  then  scald 
them  in  the  same  brine  and  drain.  Dressing :  Take  6  tablespoon- 
fuls of  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of  tumeric,  1  cup  of  flour, 
2  quarts  of  vinegar  and  2  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Mix  this  all  to- 
gether with  a  little  vinegar  and  scald  until  smooth.  Now  put  in  the 
pickles,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Sister  Sadie  Stover,  Lanark,  III 


310 


PICKLES 


Sweet  Chow  Chow. — Take  1  gallon  of  cabbage,  2  quarts 
of  green  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  onions,  %  cup  of  green  peppers.  Chop 
all  fine,  and  add  \y2  pounds  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard, 
1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  and  \y>  quarts  of  vinegar. 
Boil  until  cabbage  is  tender. — Sister  Lisetta  Brown,  Whitewater, 
bid. 

Chop  Pickles. — Take  green  tomatoes  and  cabbage,  about 
equal  parts  ground  together.  Salt  well  and  let  stand  in  wooden  or 
earthen  vessel  24  hours,  then  press  out  all  juice,  add  weak  vinegar, 
and  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  cool.  After  it  is  cool,  press  out 
all  juice  again  and  put  in  enough  good  strong  vinegar  to  make  as 
thin  as  desired.  To  4  gallons  of  pickle  add  2  ounces  cinnamon,  2 
ounces  of' cloves,  2  ounces  of  celery  seed,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
pepper,  and  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Do  not  boil 
again,  but  pack  in  glass  or  earthen  vessels  cold. — Sister  Geo.  B.  Hol- 
singer,  Bridgewatcr,  Va. 

Chowder  Recipe  (For  Two  Gallons). — Take  3  heads  of  cab- 
bage, 1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  y2  cup  of  salt, 
6  onions,  8  mangoes,  and  2  red  peppers.  Chop  all  fine  and  boil 
]/2  hour.  Drain  in  a  colander.  Then  add  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  2 
pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  ground 
cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and  mustard  seed,  and  1  pint  of 
grated  horse-radish.  Boil  all  together  till  tender  and  seal  up  in 
fruit  jars. — Sister  Edith  Warstler,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  6 
onions,  sliced  together,  1  cup  of  salt  over  both.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  let  remain  over  night.  Then  pour  liquor  off  in  the  morning; 
throw  it  away.  Mix  2  quarts  of  water,  and  1  of  vinegar,  boil  20 
minutes,  drain,  and  throw  liquor  away.  Take  3  quarts  of  vinegar,  2 
pounds  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, and  3  green  peppers  chopped  fine.    Boil  from  1  to  2  hours. 


PICKLES 


311 


This  recipe,  will  make  1  gallon  of  pickles. — Sister  Hannah  F.  Dun- 
ning, Denbigh,  N.  Dak. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Take  1  peck  of  tomatoes,  1  quart  of 
vinegar,  1  pound  of  sugar,  3  large  onions,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  whole 
cloves  and  4  sweet  green  peppers.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  cloves 
and  peppers  together  10  minutes.  Slice  the  tomatoes,  onions  and 
peppers.  Put  in  enough  at  a  time  to  be  covered,  boil  till  pierced 
easily  with  a  fork;  take  out  and  put  in  more  until  all  are  cooked. 
Then  add  1  quart  of  vinegar  to  the  liquid  left  in  the  vessel  and  boil 
20  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes.  These  are  crisp  and 
light  in  color ;  if  cooked  too  long  they  get  soft  and  dark. — Sister  E. 
A.  Dunn,  Oaks,  Pa. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Take  only  firm  green  tomatoes, 
slice  thin  and  steam  them  until  soft,  drain  oft  all  the  water  and  make 
a  syrup  as  follows :  To  3  pints  of  good  vinegar  take  1  pint  of  sugar, 
and  boil"  20  minutes,  then  add  1  ounce  of  cloves,  1  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon bark,  and  y2  ounce  of  mustard  seed.  Pour  over  the  tomatoes. 
Sister  Eliza  A.  Wenger,  Long  Glade,  Va. 

Mixed  Pickles. — Take  y2  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  25  small 
cucumbers  whole,  15  large  onions,  2  large  heads  of  cabbage,  1  pint 
of  onion  sets,  1  pint  of  grated  horse-radish,  ]/2  pound  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  34  pound  box  of  mustard,  1  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  1 
ounce  of  celery  seed,  some  celery  stalks  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper.  Slice  tomatoes  not  too  thin,  cut 
the  cabbage  coarse,  and  if  cucumbers  are  large  cut  in  pieces  about 
1  inch  long.  Salt  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  drain  and  put  in 
weak  vinegar.  Let  stand  a  day  or  two,  then  press  out  and  pack  in  a 
jar  and  sprinkle  in  the  spices  excepting  the  mustard  while  packing. 
Heat  \y2  gallons  of  good  vinegar  and  pour  over.  Heat  the  vinegar 
for  3  mornings,  and  the  last  time  add  the  brown  sugar.  When  cold, 
stir  the  ground  mustard  through  and  pour  over  the  mixture. — 
Sister  Martha  L.  Fitz,  Pan  or  a,  Ioiva. 


312 


PICKLES 


Mixed  Pickles. — Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  1  peck  of 
onions,  1  large  head  of  cabbage  and  1  large  head  of  cauliflower. 
Cut  these  in  small  pieces,  stew  in  salt  water,  drain  over  night.  The 
same  evening  put  to  soak  in  salt  water  y2  peck  of  small  beans,  Yz 
peck  small  cucumbers.  In  the  morning  heat  1  gallon  of  vinegar  and 
add  1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  to  which  add  mustard,  cloves,  a  little 
red. pepper  and  horse-radish  to  taste.  Xow  mix  1  box  of  English 
mustard  with  a  little  vinegar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  tumeric.  Stir 
all  into  the  vinegar.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  pickle. — 
Sister  J.  A.  Sell,  McKee  Gap,  Pa. 

Mixed  Pickles. — Take  string  beans  and  cook  until  tender, 
salt  to  taste.  Take  green  tomatoes,  slice,  sprinkle  salt  over  them. 
Take  young  muskmelons  and  watermelons,  very  young  and  green ; 
slice  in  suitable  pieces,  for  pickles ;  cucumbers  size  for  pickles.  Let 
all  stand  in  salt  over  night  and  drain  well  next  morning.  Take  a 
barrel,  or  whatever  is  wanted  to  put  the  pickles  in.  First  cover  the 
bottom  with  large  cabbage  leaves,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  each  of  the 
above-named  vegetables ;  then  sprinkle  all  kinds  of  spices  over  them. 
Then  add  small  heads  of  cabbage  or  the  sprouts  that  gather  around 
where  the  head  has  been  cut  out.  Then  begin  over  again,  putting 
in  a  layer  of  the  vegetables,  then  the  spices  and  some  green  peppers^ 
When  all  are  in,  pour  good  vinegar  over  and  cover  with  cabbage 
leaves.  Put  on  a  weight  heavy  enough  to  keep  all  under  the  vine- 
gar. It  is  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days.  When  kept  in  a  cool  place 
it  will  keep  until  all  is  used  up. — Sister  Rachel  E.  Gillett,  Camp 
Verde,  Ariz. 

Mixed  Pickles. — Take  12  stalks  of  celery  cut  fine,  6  quarts  of 
very  small  pickles,  2  quarts  of  large  cucumbers  sliced.  5  quarts  of 
very  small  onions,  2  quarts  of  green  tomatoes  diced,  3  heads  of  cauli- 
flower, and  6  large  peppers  chopped  fine,  soak  all  separately  in  brine 
over  night.  In  the  morning  cook  all  separately  in  same  brine  until 
just  tender.   Dressing:   Take  1  gallon  of  vinegar,  24  tablespoonfuls 


PICKLES 


313 


of  ground  mustard,  2  cups  of  flour,  4  cups  of  light  "  C  "  sugar,  and 
5  cents'  worth  of  tumeric.  Heat  the  vinegar,  keeping  out  just 
enough  of  it  cold  to  mix  up  the  last  4  ingredients  smoothly,  and  add 
this  to  the  hot  vinegar.  When  it  has  boiled  up  well,  add  all  the 
prepared  vegetables  and  stir  thoroughly  until  all  are  heated  through. 
Use  a  pan  or  kettle  to  heat  them  in  large  enough  to  hold  all  with 
plenty  of  room  for  stirring. — Sister  Permelia  A.  Greenwood,  Gran- 
ger, Ind. 

Fancy  Mixed  Pickles. — Take  1  large  head  of  cauliflower,  2 
quarts  of  pickling  onions,  2  quarts  of  small  cucumbers  or  larger 
ones  cut  into  small  pieces  and  1  or  2  quarts  of  nice,  tender,  yellow- 
pod  beans.  Pick  the  cauliflower  into  small  pieces  and  soak  in  salt 
water  over  night ;  also  the  onions,  beans  and  cucumbers  should  be 
soaked  over  night  in  salt  water,  then  all  drained.  Cauliflower,  beans 
and  onions  should  be  boiled  until  just  tender,  but  firm.  Put  in  the 
colander  to  drain.  Then  mix  all  together.  Take  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  all  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1  ounce  of 
mixed  spices.  Pour  over  the  pickles,  and  they  will  soon  be  ready  for 
use. — Sister  Jno.  D.  Bonsack,  Rock  Lake,  K.  Dak. 

Mustard  Pickles.— Take  1  quart  of  small  cucumbers.  1  quart 
of  small  onions,  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers  and  1 
quart  of  chopped  cauliflower.  Put  all  in  salt  water  and  soak  for  24 
hours,  and  then  heat  in  the  same  water.  Dressing:  Take  6  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of  tumeric,  1  cup  of  flour,  y2 
cup  of  sugar  and  2  quarts  of  vinegar.  Stir  constantly  until  heated. 
Pour  over  pickles  and  seal. — Sister  E.  Hodgden,  Huntington,  Ind. 

Mustard  Pickles. — Take  2  quarts  each  of  cucumbers,  green 
tomatoes,  cabbage,  and  onions ;  chop  not  too  fine  and  mix  all  to- 
gether. Boil  in  weak  salt  water  until  tender,  then  drain  over  night. 
Dressing:  Take  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  2  pounds  of  sugar,  %  pound 
of  ground  mustard,  y2  cup  of  flour,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  tumeric. 
Boil,  and  pour  over  pickle. — Sister  Mary  Rowland,  Polo,  III. 


314 


PICKLES 


Piccalilli. — Take  y2  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  2  medium-sized 
heads  of  cabbage,  12  cucumbers,  12  large  sweet  peppers  and  1  quart 
of  celery.  Cut  all  very  fine,  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  and  drain. 
Then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard  seed,  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon  and  cloves,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  gallon  of  vinegar  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Heat  all  together  and  put  in  jars. — Sister  Alice 
Trimmer,  York,  Pa. 

Spanish  Pickle. — Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  4  good- 
sized  heads  of  cabbage,  1  dozen  onions,  3  ounces  of  mustard  seed, 
2V2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  2  good  bunches  of  green  celery,  y2 
ounce  of  tumeric,  and  y2  box  of  Coleman's  mustard.  Chop  the  to- 
matoes and  cabbage.  Mix  with  a  pint  of  salt  and  let  stand  a  few 
hours,  or  over  night,  then  drain  or  squeeze  out  and  add  the  onions 
and  celery  chopped.  Also  add  2  quarts  of  pickles,  when  they  are 
ready  for  use.  Cut  the  pickles  in  pieces  lengthwise.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  simmer  one  hour.  Put  in  vinegar  to  suit  taste,  as  you 
would  for  piccalilli.  Then  can  up. — Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshel- 
man.  Elgin,  III. 

Tomato  Soy. — Take  2  gallons  of  green  tomatoes  sliced  with- 
out peeling,  12  large  onions  sliced,  1  tablespoonful  each  of  salt, 
pepper,  allspice  and  ground  cloves,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mus- 
tard, 1  quart  of  sugar,  and  2  quarts  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  together 
and  cook  until  tender,  stirring  often  to  keep  from  burning. — Sister 
Sadie  Shank,  Notus,  Idaho. 

Watermelon  Pickle. — Boil  the  white  rind  of  the  melon  until 
it  is  soft  enough  to  run  a  broom  straw  through,  then  lay  it  on  a  plate 
to  drain  dry.  Boil  together  1  pint  of  vinegar  and  2  pints  of  sugar. 
Drop  into  this  the  melon  and  spice  to  suit  the  taste. — Sister  Levi 
Bear,  Hagerstoztm,  Md. 

Watermelon  Pickle. — Peel  and  cut  the  white  rind  of  the 
melon  into  pieces,  soak  in  strong  salt  water  twelve  hours  then  soak 
in  clear  water  another  twelve  hours.  Boil  in  fresh  water  until  ten- 
der and  easily  pierced  with  a  straw.  For  5  pounds  of  rind  make  a 
syrup  of  2  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  pint  of  water, 


PICKLES 


315 


cup  of  mixed  spices  (whole),  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice.  If  desired 
the  spice  may  be  tied  in  a  bag  boiled  in  the  syrup,  and  placed  in  jar 
with  the  pickle.  Pack  rinds  in  jar,  pour  boiling  syrup  over  them. 
Repeat  this  for  three  mornings.  Boil  syrup  down  the  last  time  un- 
til it  barely  covers  rinds.  May  be  canned,  but  will  keep  in  a  jar  if 
set  in  a  cool  place. — Sister  Katherine  Newsom,  Chicago,  III. 

Watermelon  Sweet  Pickle. — Prepare  the  rind  as  you  like. 
Weigh  the  rind  as  soon  as  you  cut  it,  then  leave  in  salt  water  over 
night.  The  next  day  soak  in  fresh  water,  changing  it  now  and  then 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Put  in  a  brass  kettle  one  layer  of  grape 
leaves  and  one  of  rind,  until  the  rind  is  all  in.  Add  alum  the  size 
of  an  egg,  cover  with  water  and  boil  y2  hour.  Then  take  out  rind 
and  soak  in  fresh  water  again,  changing  the  water  often  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  To  each  pound  of  rind  take  24  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  y2 
pint  of  strong  vinegar ;  spice  with  ginger,  mace,  cinnamon  and  a  few 
cloves.  Boil  the  rind  in  the  vinegar  and  sugar  till  it  is  clear,  then 
put  in  jar  and  boil  syrup  till  it  gets  the  least  thickened  and  add  to 
melon. — Sister  Luverna  Sheet's,  Mt.  Solon,  Va. 

Catsup. — To  1  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes,  take  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 
and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard.  Peel  the  tomatoes,  slice  and  cook 
soft,  then  strain  through  a  colander.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and 
boil  all  together  1  hour.  Can,  and  seal  tightly. — Sister  EMe  Hoover, 
Milford,  Ind. 

Cold  Catsup.— Take  y2  peck  of  tomatoes,  peel,  cut  fine,  and 
pour  off  the  juice.  Add  1  teacupful  of  grated  horseradish,  1  cup 
of  ground  mustard  seed,  1  cup  of  nasturtium  seed  cut  fine,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  celery  seed,  y2  cup  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  and  y2  gal- 
lon of  vinegar.  Put  it  in  a  jug  or  bottle,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Peel  the  tomatoes  cold,  and  do  not  put  anything  warm  about  it. — 
Sister  Alice  Trimmer,  York,  Pa. 

Grape  Catsup. — Take  1  quart  of  grape  juice,  1  pint  of  vine- 
gar, 1  pound  of  sugar,  and  ground  cloves  to  suit  your  taste.  Boil 
until  quite  thick. — Sister  Amy  Roop  Shaw,  Westminster,  Md. 


316 


PICKLES 


Cucumber  Catsup. — Pare  and  grate  24  medium-sized  cu- 
cumbers, also  3  onions.  Strain  all  through  cheese  cloth  and  add  to 
the  pulp  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Add  vinegar 
to  make  as  before  straining.  Seal  for  keeping  as  canned  fruit. 
Serve  with  meats  in  winter.  If  properly  made  it  has  the  flavor  of 
fresh  cucumbers. — Sister  Mary  C.  dine,  Stuarts  Draft,  V a. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Boil  1  gallon  of  tomatoes  until  soft,  strain 
through  a  sieve;  add  1  quart  of  vinegar,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  4 
teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cloves,  4  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mustard, 
and  4  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Boil  down  to  Y<\  of  its  bulk  and  add  4 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Bottle  and  seal. — Sister  Elmer  Snober- 
ger,  Roaring  Spring,  Pa. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Wash  the  tomatoes,  boil  a  few  minutes, 
and  when  cool  put  them  through  a  sieve.  To  4  quarts  of  pulp  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard,  1  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  1  quart  of  vinegar,  and  boil  down  one-half. — Sister 
Susan  Roazer,  New  Paris,  Pa. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. — Peel  and  remove  seeds  from  1  gal- 
lon of  ripe  tomatoes.  Mash  fine  and  add  1  teacup  of  salt,  1  teacup 
of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  of  celery  seed  and  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  well,  bot- 
tle and  seal. — Sister-  Mary  C.  Cline,  Stuarts  Draft,  Va. 

Chili  Sauce. — Take  y2  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  4  good-sized 
onions,  4  red  peppers  chopped  fine.  Add  10  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
5  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  9  teacupfuls  of  cider  vinegar.  Boil  1 
hour,  and  bottle. — Sister  Perry  Broadwater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Chili  Sauce. — Take  12  ripe  tomatoes,  3  onions,  3  bunches  of 
celery  cut  fine,  sweet  and  sharp  peppers,  1  cup  cider  vinegar,  a  little 
salt,  and  cinnamon  if  liked.    Boil  all  together  not  too  soft. — Sister 

Lizzie  Pehlman,  Miller -smile,  Pa. 


PICKLES 


317 


Chili  Sauce. — Take  36  large  ripe  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers, 
seeds  and  all,  5  large  onions,  3  tablespoonfuls  each  of  salt  and  sugar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon  and  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper,  and  7  cups  of  vinegar.  Scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes  ; 
then  boil  them  15  minutes.  Add  peppers  and  onions  chopped  fine 
and  your  seasoning,  and  boil  2  hours,  or  till  thick  enough  to  bottle.— 
Sister  Alverna  E.  Biitterbaugh,  Carthage,  Mo. 

Bordeaux  Sauce. — Take  2  gallons  of  chopped  cabbage,  1  gal- 
lon of  chopped  green  tomatoes,  1  gallon  of  vinegar,  1J4  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  y2  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  1  dozen  onions,  £4 
ounce  of  tumeric,  1  ounce  each  of  celery  seed,  cloves,  and  allspice, 
and  1  gill  of  salt. — Sister  Myra  Troyer,  Baltic,  Ohio. 

Peach  Sauce. — Take  1  peck  of  peaches,  wash  and  wipe  dry : 
put  y2  of  the  quantity  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  until  tender.  Take  them  out  and  cook  the  remaining  peaches. 
Add  to  the  syrup  1  pint  of  vinegar,  and  3  pints  of  white  sugar.  Let 
come  to  a  boil,  and  put  the  peaches  imagain  and  let  boil,  then  put 
in  jars  and  seal  tight. — Sister  S.  C.  S mucker,  Timberville,  Va. 

Tomato  Relish. — Take  1  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peel,  slice, 
and  drain  well;  chop  6  large  onions,  1  cup  of  celery,  and  4  small 
peppers ;  mix  all  together.  Add  1  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  2  pints 
of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  (more  if 
liked),  y2  ounce  of  celery  seed,  and  salt  to  taste.  Do  not  cook.  This 
will  make  about  6  quarts.  Can  and  seal,  and  it  will  keep  until  late 
in  the  spring. — Sister  Mary  Royer,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. — Take  8  pounds  of  green  tomatoes 
and  chop  fine  or  grind  on  a  sausage  grinder ;  add  4  pounds  of  sugar 
and  boil  down  3  hours.  Then  add  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  1  ounce 
each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  all  ground,  of  course,  and  boil 
about  15  minutes.  Let  cool  and  put  in  jars  or  other  vessels.  Try 
this  once  and  you  will  make  it  again. — Sister  Martha  Jane  Iken- 
berry}  Gowrie,  Iowa. 


318 


PICKLES 


Corn  Salad. — Take  2  dozen  ears  of  corn,  8  onions  chopped 
fine,  4  green  peppers,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cabbage  heads  chopped  fine, 
1  teaspoonful  each  white  and  black  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed. 
1  gallon  of  vinegar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard.  Scald 
and  can  hot.  We  like  it  fine  for  winter  use. — Sister  Clara  Clark, 
Palisade,  Colo. 

Corn  Salad. — Take  1  gallon  of  corn,  ^  gallon  of  cabbage,  2 
large  sweet  peppers,  1  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  or  more  if  desired,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  celery  seed,  2  cups  of  sugar,  \y2  quarts  of  vinegar,  and  1 
pint  of  water.  Boil  together  all  but  the  flour  and  mustard  for  thirty 
minutes.  Then  add  these  and  boil'  twenty  minutes.  Seal  hot. — 
— Sister  D.  E.  Y eager,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Good  Vinegar. — A  family  using  much  canned  fruit  and  ber- 
ries may  keep  themselves  provided  with  excellent  vinegar  by  rinsing 
each  jar  after  the  fruit  or  berries  have  been  removed  and  pouring  it 
into  another  jar,  crock,  or  demijohn  used  for  the  purpose.  The 
many  kinds  of  juices  cause  it  to  become  a  very  fine-flavored  vinegar. 
While  the  first  jar  made  is  being  used,  another  jar  can  be  filled. — 
Sister  Rachel  Michael,  Myrtle  Point,  Ore. 


PICKLES 


320  PICKLES 


With  the  present  knowledge  of  canning  and  preserving  open 
to  all,  no  family  need  be  without  wholesome  fruits  any  time  during 
the  year,  if  they  are  to  be  had  in  their  season.  The  two  essentials 
to  successful  canning  are  sterilizing  of  fruits,  jars,  etc.,  and  exclu- 
sion of  air.  Directions  are  given  in  the  recipes  that  follow.  Excel- 
lent jellies  may  be  made  from  parings,  cores,  etc.,  of  fruit  prepared 
for  canning.  Jellies  should  be  cooked  rapidly  and  preserves  slow- 
ly. Cream  of  tartar  added  to  preserves  and  jams  just  before  they 
are  quite  cooked,  in  the  proportion  of  one  teaspoonful  to  one  gallon 
of  fruit,  will  prevent  sugaring.  If  one  does  not  wish  to  seal  pre- 
serves, jams  and  jellies,  cover  them  when  cold  with  about  one-half 
inch  of  melted  paraffin.  Keep  preserves,  jams,  jellies  and  canned 
fruit  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place.  Paraffin  that  has  been  used  to  cover 
jellies,  etc.,  may  be  cleaned  by  boiling  it  rapidly  in  water,  then  setting 
it  aside  to  cool,  when  the  dust  will  settle  to  the  bottom  and  any 
fruit  juice  in  it  will  be  dissolved,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  use  again. 
A  good  sealing  wax  may  be  made  of  one  pound  of  resin  and  one 
ounce  each  of  lard,  tallow  and  beeswax.  Melt  together  and  apply 
hot. 

Apple  Butter. — Take  12  gallons  of  cider,  1  bushel  of  apple 
snitz,  and  20  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  the  apples  in  as  soon  as  the 
cider  has  been  skimmed,  and  boil  3  hours.  This  recipe  has  proved 
successful  and  produces  a  larger  quantity  and  better  quality  than 
when  made  the  old  way. — Sister  Sue  C.  Foutz,  Waynesboro,  Pa. 

Twentieth  Century  Apple  Butter. — For  10  gallons  take  20 
gallons  of  cider ;  20  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  3-hooped  tub  of  quartered 
apples.  Boil  and  skim  the  cider  and  put  in  the  apples  as  fast  as  the 
cider  boils  down  to  make  room.  When  the  apples  are  cooked  very 
soft,  add  the  sugar,  dipping  out  some  of  the  butter  to  dissolve  the 

.  ,  321 


322 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


sugar,  as  the  cold  sugar  would  fall  to  the  bottom  and  burn.  This 
butter  can  be  made  between  breakfast  and  supper,  and  no  hurry  or 
night  work. — Sister  N.  J.  Roop,  Warrembnrg,  Mo. 

Egg  Butter. — Put  a  cup  of  molasses  in  a  skillet  and  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Then  add  2  well-beaten  xeggs  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  stirring  briskly  all  the  time  or  the  eggs  will  cook  in  big 
pieces.  Take  up  as  soon  as  the  eggs  are  all  stirred  in.  Serve  the 
same  as  apple  butter. — Sister  Susie  Peters,  Emporia,  Kans. 

Lemon  Butter. — Take  3  lemons  grated  and  seeds  removed, 
3  eggs,  1  pint  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  y2  cup  of  water  ; 
boil  all  together  for  15  minutes.  Best  boiled  in  a  double  boiler.  This 
makes  an  excellent  butter. — Sister  J.  P.  Holsinger,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 

Lemon  Butter. — Take  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  y,  cup  of  butter, 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Grate  the  yellow  off  of  2 
medium-sized  lemons,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  and  mix  all  together. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  by  setting  the  pan  containing  the  mixture  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water. — Sister  Bertha  Kaitifman,  Williston,  N.  Dak. 

Pear  Butter. — Take  six  heaping  buckets  of  pear  snitz  (our 
bucket  holds  fourteen  quarts  even  full)  and  four  buckets  of  water. 
(This  is  the  way  we  make  it  of  harvest  pears.)  Boil  the  pears  till 
mushy,  then  put  in  forty  or  forty-five  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  The 
light  brown  is  best,  as  it  helps  to  give  the  butter  a  nice  color.  Nbw 
boil  till  it  gets  that  peculiar  bubble  which  apple  butter  also  gets  when 
it  is  done.  Of  course,  do  not  boil  it  too  hard.  A  little  experience  will 
tell  you  how  fast  to  cook  it. .  This  gives  a  nice  amount  and  it  is  good. 
We  boil  this  amount  in  about  five  hours. — Sister  Mattie  Weaver, 
Ephrata,  Pa. 

Sugar  Butter. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  good 
sweet  cream  and  \y>  teaspoonfuls  of  alum,  to  keep  it  from  sugar- 
ing. ,  Then  boil  till  the  right  consistency. — Sister  K.  Westrick, 
Belleville,  Kans. 

Tomato  Butter  with  Apples. — Steam  ripe  tomatoes  and  rub 
them  through  a  sieve.  Stew  apples  and  treat  them  the  same  way. 
Thicken  the  tomatoes  with  the  stewed  apples  and  sweeten  to  taste. 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


323 


Cook  until  quite  thick.  Spices  may  be  added  if  desired. — Sister  Perry 
Broadwater,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Honey  Recipe. — Put  Yz  ounce  of  alum  in  V/i  pints  of  water 
and  bring  to  a  boil;  then  add  4  pounds  of  white  sugar  and  boil 
about  3  minutes.  Strain  while  hot,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  fol- 
lowing :  5  drops  of  rose,  oil  into  1  pint  of  alcohol  (or  a  proportion- 
ate quantity  of  each).  This  makes  about  Yz  gallon. — Sister  W.  K. 
Conner,  Bridgewater,  Va. 

Homemade  Honey. — Boil  together  for  3  minutes  the  fol- 
lowing: Five  pounds  of  white  sugar,  \y2  pints  of  water,  and  alum 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Strain  through  a  white  cloth,  and  when 
partly  cool  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  rose  water. — Sister  Minnie 
Barkdoll,  Warrenville,  III. 

Pineapple  Honey. — Take  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of 
water  boiled  together  until  clear.  Then  add  1  pint  of  grated  pine- 
apple and  boil  seven  minutes.  It  can  be  made  of  quinces  or  apples, 
and  is  excellent  when  fruit  is  ground  through  a  food  chopper. — 
Sister  Amy  V.  Furry,  Johnsville,  Md. 

Pineapple  Honey. — Put  the  peeling  and  core  of  1  pineapple 
into  2  cups  of  water.  Let  stand  a  few  hours.  Then  bring  to  a  boil 
and  strain.  Add  3  cups  of  sugar  to  1  cup  of  pineapple.  Boil  again 
for  ten  minutes.  Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. — Sister  Cassie  Martin, 
Bloom,  Kans. 

Quince  Honey. — Take  4  large  or  6  small  quinces  and  grind 
in  a  small  grinder  or  food  chopper.  Put  in  a  kettle  4  pints  of  sugar 
and  1  quart  of  water  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
ground  quince  and  boil  20  minutes.  Put  in  jelly  cups. — Sister  Ber- 
nice  Ashmore,  St.  Peter,  Minn. 

Quince  Honey. — Take  fully  ripe,  juicy  quinces.  Pare,  halve, 
core  and  grate  them.  Weigh  the  grated  fruit,  and  to  the  half  pound 
take  three  cups  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
water  until  it  spins  a  thread ;  add  the  grated  quinces  and  continue 
boiling  until  thick  as  honey.  Bottle  and  seal  the  honey  while  hot 
and  it  will  keep  indefinitely. — Sister  Margaret  Fox,  Sidney,  hid. 


324 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


Quince  Honey. — Take  2  pints  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  water  and 
1  grated  quince.  If  a  bit  of  alum  is  put  in  it  will  not  sugar  so  read- 
ily.   Boil  to  a  syrup. — Sister  Katie  Moore  Strickler,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Seedless  Blackberry  Jam. — Run  through  a  sieve  1  gallon  of 
blackberries,  add  about  2  pounds  of  sugar,  or  enough  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  boil  to  a  thick  jam.  Then  put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. — 
Sister  Kate  Moomazv,  Versailles,  Mo. 

Grape  Jam. — Take  2  qts.  of  hulled  grapes,  8  cups  of  sugar, 
and  1  lb.  of  seeded  or  seedless  raisins.  Cook  20  minutes.  Stir  in 
1  cup  of  English  walnut  meats  just  before  taking  off. — Sister  Ber- 
nice  Ashmore,  St.  Peter,  Minn. 

Wild  Red  Plum  Jam. — Take  one  gallon  of  plums,  drop  into 
a  granite  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  bak- 
ing soda,  set  on  the  stove  and  let  boil  till  the  plums  crack  open. 
Then  drain  off  all  the  water,  take  out  the  seeds  and  replace  plums 
on  the  stove  with  a  little  water.  Let  boil  five  minutes,  then  add 
four  pints  of  sugar  and  boil  twenty  minutes  more.  If  you  would 
prefer  the  plums  whole,  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  drop  the 
plums  in  without  taking  out  the  seeds.  Let  simmer  till  done,  or  the 
syrup  will  jell. — Sister  Catharine  A.  Walker,  Lovejoy,  Pa. 

Raspberry  Jam. — Take  equal  parts  of  raspberries  and  sugar 
(white  sugar  preferred).  Put  a  little  water  on  the  sugar  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Mash  the  berries  well  and  put  them  in  the  syrup; 
let  boil  slowly  until  it  jells,  then  put  in  glass  jars  and  keep 
in  a  dry,  cool  place. — Sister  Maggie  Bosserman,  Carrington,  N.  Dak. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Take  1  quart  of  granulated  sugar  and 
y2  pint  of  water.  Let  it  boil,  then  add  2  quarts  of  mashed  straw- 
berries and  let  boil  30  minutes. — Sister  Emma  Amick,  Idaville,  Ind. 

Sunshine  Jam. — Take  1  pint  of  berries  or  any  kind  of  fruit 
you  wish,  mash  as  fine  as  you  can,  then  take  2  pints  of  granulated 
sugar,  mix  thoroughly  and  boil  5  minutes. — Sister  Emma  Fisher, 
Baltic,  Ohio. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Take  as  many  crab  apples  as  wanted,  put 
in  a  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  tender.   Put  in  a  colander 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


325 


or  jelly  bag,  let  stand  and  drain  over  night.  Take  1  pint  of  sugar  to 
1  pint  of  juice  and  boil  rapidly  until  it  jells. — Sister  J.  W .  Brooks, 
Independence,  Oregon. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Quarter  the  apples,  and  allow  sufficient 
water  to  cover  them;  cook  till  soft,  and  strain.  To  1  quart  of  juice 
add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Take  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  juice  and 
cook  until  it  jells.  Equal  parts  of  apple  and  plum  juice  make  a  good 
jelly. — Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Cherry  Jelly. — The  Morello  is  the  best  cherry  for  jelly.  Stone 
the  fruit,  put  it  into  a  stone  jar  in  a  kettle  of  water ;  cover  the  top  of 
the  jar  with  a  plate  and  place  on  the  stove,  where  the  fruit  will  grad- 
ually heat  through.  When  soft,  pour  it  into  small  jelly  bags  and 
hang  it  up  to  drain  out  the  juice;  do  not  squeeze  until  no  more  jelly 
will  run  out,  then  press  all  remaining  juice  out  by  squeezing  the  bag, 
but  use  this  juice  for  a  second  grade  of  jelly.  Measure  the  juice, 
and  to  each  pint  allow  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Do  not  cook 
more  than  2  quarts  of  juice  at  one  time;  let  the  juice  boil  rapidly  for 
10  minutes.  Have  the  sugar  heating  in  the  oven,  but  do  not  let  it 
brown;  skim  the  juice  as  it  boils  and  at  the  end  of  the  10  minutes 
add  the  heated  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved  and  let  it  boil  for  10 
minutes  longer.  After  adding  the  sugar  it  may  not  require  10  min- 
utes' boiling ;  if  the  fruit  is  in  prime  condition  for  jelly-making,  it  may 
jell  at  the  first  hard  boiling.  If  it  clings  in  drops  from  a  spoon  it 
is  done.  Have  glasses  heated  and  stand  them  on  a  folded  cloth. 
Fill  almost  to  overflowing  and  let  get  perfectly  cold  before  covering 
them. — Sister  Emma  R.  Armey,  Silver  Lake,  Ind. 

Currant  Jelly. — Take  any  desired  quantity  of  well-ripened 
currants,  wash  in  cold  water  and  mash  fine.  For  best  results  in 
pressing  out  the  juice,  put  about  1  pint  at  a  time  into  a  sack  or  cloth. 
Press  well,  so  as  to  get  all  the  juice,  then  add  1  pint  of  granulated 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Put  all  together  into  a  kettle  and  boil 
quickly  for  15  or  20  minutes.— Sister  Lizzie  F.  Miller,  Roanoke, 
Va. 


326 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


A  Good  Jelly. — When  canning  pears  add  a  liberal  quantity 
of  water  and  stew  a  good  while.  Save  the  juice  that  is  left  over. 
Now  take  some  crabapples,  stew  as  for  jelly,  also  stew  several 
quinces;  add  all  the  juices  together.  Make  as  other  jellies. — Sister 
Sarah  Early,  Salem,  Oregon. 

Loquat  Jelly. — Pit  the  loquats  and  cover  the  pulp  with  water, 
cook  until  soft,  and  strain  in  a  close  sack.  To  1  pint  of  juice  take  1 
pint  of  sugar.  It  is  best  to  make  it  in  small  quantities,  as  it  gets 
clearer.  Always  cook  in  a  granite  saucepan,  never  use  tin.  Cook  until 
a  little  tried  in  a  saucer  will  jell. — Sister  Barbara  Kindig,  Inglen'ood, 
Cal. 

Rhubarb  Jelly. — Cut  young  rhubarb  in  short  lengths,  and 
allow  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  1  pint  of  the  fruit ;  cook  till  soft, 
and  strain.  Combine  with  y$  currant  juice,  and  use  sugar  in  the 
ordinary  proportion. — Sister  Mary  E.  Whitney,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

Pie  Flant  Jelly. — Wash  the  rhubarb  and  cut  it  into  small 
pieces.  To  2  gallons  of  rhubarb  add  1  quart  of  water,  boil  until 
tender,  drain  through  a  cheese  cloth;  boil  this  juice  down  ^2  after 
which  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  then  boil  10  minutes  more. 
Dissolve  1  box  of  good  gelatine  and  add  to  the  jelly,  then  remove 
from  the  fire;  let  sit  10  minutes,  strain  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses, 
cover  with  paraffine  wax  when  cool;  keep  in  a  dark  place,  not  too 
damp. — Sister  Maggie  Stanibaugh,  Carrington,  N.  Dak. 

Pineapple  Jelly. — When  canning  pineapples,  after  removing 
the  outer,  rough  peeling,  punch  out  the  eyes  into  a  separate  vessel, 
cover  with  water  and  cook  slowly  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Then 
strain  and  can  up  and  later  use  with  currant  juice  or  other  fruit 
juices  that  jell  easily  to  make  jelly.  By  this  method  a  nice  lot  of 
finely  flavored  jelly  is  obtained  without  robbing  the  canned  pine- 
apple of  any  of  its  juice.  This  juice  may  also  be  used  with  gelatine 
in  making  dainty  dessert. — Sister  Blanche  Lents,  Elgin,  III. 

Rhubarb  Jelly.— To  9  cups  of  rhubarb,  take  9  cups  of  sugar, 
3  oranges  cut  up  fine  and  j/2  cup  of  almonds.  Crack  the  almonds 
and  scald  the  goodies  so  you  can  remove  the  brown  hull,  and  cut  up 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


327 


fine.  Put  sugar  on  the  rhubarb  which  has  been  cut  up  fine  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Put  all  together  in  the  morning  and  boil,  strain 
and  continue  to  cook  like  any  other  jelly  until  thick. — Sister  Stella 
Smith,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Marmalade. — Take  2  gallons  of  fresh  cider  and  boil  down  to 
1  gallon.  Then  take  1  gallon  of  stewed  apples  and  1  quart  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  put  them  into  the  boiling  cider.  Boil  until  it  be- 
comes very  thick.  Flavor  with  allspice  or  cinnamon. — Sister  Jas. 
Hatcher,  Fairview,  Oregon. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Take  equal  parts  of  sour  oranges  and 
sugar.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  34  of  the  oranges,  cut  all  the 
fruit  in  halves,  pick  out  all  the  pulp  and  free  it  from  seeds.  Drain 
off  all  the  juice  you  can  and  put  it  on  to  boil  with  the  sugar.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
pulp  and  grated  rind  and  boil  15  minutes  longer. — Sister  J  as.  F. 
Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cal. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Take  6  oranges,  4  peeled  and  2  with 
peeling.  For  every  pound  of  fruit  take  1  quart  of  cold  water  and 
let  stand  24  hours,  then  set  on  stove  and  let  boil  for  y2  hour.  Take 
off  and  weigh.  For  every  pound  of  fruit  add  1  pound  of  sugar; 
cook  until  done.  Test  by  putting  a  little  in  a  dish,  and  when  cool 
it  will  be  like  jelly. — Sister  E.  E.  Aschenbrenner,  Covina,  Cal. 

Pear  Marmalade. — Boil  pears  till  soft,  when  cold  rub  the 
pulp  through  a  sieve  and  boil  it  to  a  jelly,  allowing  1  pound  of  sugar 
to  2  pounds  of  pears. — Sister  Amy  V.  Furry,  Johnsville,  Md. 

Corncob  Molasses. — Take  about  a  dozen  corncobs  (sweet 
corn  preferred),  and  boil  about  ^4  hour  in  3  pints  of  water.  Take 
out  cobs;  strain,  add  a  pound  of  good  brown  sugar  to  the  juice 
and  boil  down  enough  to  make  a  syrup.  This  is  a  very  good  sub- 
stance for  maple  molasses,  the  cobs  giving  it  this  flavor. — Sister 
Maggie  Berkley  Bail,  Washington,  Pa. 


328 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


To  Preserve  Cherries. — Carefully  seed  wax  cherries.  Take 
equal  parts  of  cherries  and  sugar,  and  make  a  syrup  with  just 
enough  water  to  dissolve  sugar.  Let  syrup  come  to  a  boil,  then  put 
in  fruit  and  boil  slowly  until  the  syrup  is  ropy  and  fruit  well  pre- 
served.— Sister  Mary  C.  Cline,  Stuarts  Draft,  Va. 

Peach  Preserves. — After  preparing  the  peaches  for  preserv- 
ing, slice  the  fruit  in  thin  slices  or  cut  in  small  blocks  as  preferred. 
Then  take  pounds  of  the  fruit  to  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 
I  sugar  the  fruit  over  night ;  in  the  morning  I  take  the  syrup  that 
has  gathered  on  the  fruit  and  boil  that  until  it  commences  to  thick- 
en, then  put  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  until  it  foams  up  well.  Then  they 
are  ready  to  be  put  away  until  wanted  for  use. — Sister  Callie  Beach- 
ley,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

Pear  Preserves. — Boil  the  pears  soft  in  water,  then  add  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  Boil  until  the  jelly  thickens.  I  prefer  the 
Kiefer  pears  for  preserving. — Sister  Mary  Shinham,  Cearfoss,  Md. 

Tomato  Preserves. — To  7  pounds  of  tomatoes  use  4  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  about  2  dozen  whole  cloves. 
Cook  as  other  preserves. — Sister  Florence  Hays  Kline,  Broadway, 
Va. 

Watermelon  Preserves. — Pare  off  the  green  rind,  cut  the 
melon  or  white  rind  into  pieces  and  weigh  them.  Cook  in  clear 
water  until  partly  transparent,  but  not  until  likely  to  break.  Take 
out  the  melon  in  a  dish ;  there  will  be  nearly  enough  juice  that  drains 
from  the  melon ;  if  not,  add  a  little  water.  With  the  juice  add  sugar 
to  the  amount  of  y2  pound  to  1  pound  of  fruit  as  it  weighed  when 
raw.  When  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved,  put  in  the  melon  and  cook 
until  even  and  clear.  Flavor  as  desired,  and  can. — Sister  JVm. 
Lichty,  Darlozv,  N.  Dak. 

Watermelon  Preserves  (or  Butter). — Grate  white  part  of 
melon  rind  on  the  horse-radish  grater.  Then  take  same  amount  of 
sugar  and  boil  till  done.    Stir  frequently  or  it  will  settle  and  burn. 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


329 


Flavor  with  lemon  or  wintergreen. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville, 
Wash, 

To  Can  Fruit. — After  the  jars  are  cleaned,  pour  boiling 
water  from  the  tea-kettle  inside  and  out  at  the  same  time,  to  scald 
them  thoroughly,  then  scald  again  inside  with  boiling  water ;  have 
the  lid  filled  with  boiling  water  and  sitting  on  the  stove  while  filling 
the  jar  with  boiling  fruit;  then  empty  the  water  and  put  the  lid  on 
quickly.  If  the  lid  does  not  fit  down  smoothly,  put  on  another  rub- 
ber, as  the  fruit  is  of  more  value  than  the  extra  rubber. — Sister 
Almeda  Caskey,  Coming,  Iowa. 

To  Can  Fruit  in  Self-Sealers. — Have  the  can  lids  and  rib- 
bons perfectly  clean ;  have  a  little  syrup  in  the  kettle  made  of  sugar 
and  water;  drop  enough  fruit  in  to  fill  1  can;  let  boil  until  cooked 
through.  Skim  off  the  froth  and  put  into  the  can.  Clean  the  top 
of  the  can  with  a  cloth  that  has  not  been  used  for  dishwashing.  Let 
the  juice  cover  fruit  well,  but  not  come  near  the  top  of  the  can. 
Put  lid  on  tight  and  press  down  with  the  handle  of  a  case  knife, 
turn  jar  over  to  see  if  the  juice  will  run  out.  if  it  does,  turn  lid  a  little 
tighter  and  press  again  with  the  knife.  If  it  still  runs  out,  remove  the 
lid,  wipe  clean  and  ascertain  the  cause,  perhaps  can  was  too  full  or 
steam  wanted  to  get  out,  or  there  may  be  a  piece  of  glass  hindering 
the  lid  which  can  be  knocked  off ;  put  lid  on  again,  press  down,  and 
when  partly  cool  turn  upside  down  until  cold,  then  put  in  a  dark 
cool  place.  Aluminum  lids  are  soft  and  will  not  bear  turning  as 
tight  as  other  lids.— Sister  Sarah  C.  Goughnour,  Canton,  Ohio. 

To  Can  Green  Beans. — Prepare  ready  to  cook  1  gallon  of 
green  beans,  and  boil  in  clear  water  until  tender.  Add  1  teacupful 
of  good  sour  vinegar,  and  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  can  same  as 
fruit.  To  prepare  them  for  the  table:  About  3  hours  before  meal- 
time put  on  the  stove  to  boil  a  good-sized  piece  of  bacon,  enough  to 
season  beans  well ;  boil  1  hour.  Open  a  can  of  beans,  pour  off  all 
the  liquor  and  put  beans  in  the  kettle  with  meat  and  enough  water 
to  cover.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Sister  Harriet  E.  Menear, 
Post  oak,  Texas. 


330 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


Canned  Beans. — String  and  cut  beans  as  for  cooking.  Boil 
till  nearly  soft.  Then  put  in  jars  and  pour  over  boiling  salt  water, 
and  seal. — Sister  W.  G.  Lint,  Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Canned  Baked  Apples. — Cut  apples  in  halves  and  core,  place 
in  baking  pan,  sweeten  and  season  to  taste.  Put  enough  water  on 
them  to  make  a  syrup  to  cover  them  when  placed  in  jars.  Bake  until 
done  and  seal  while  hot. — Sister  Lottie  Miller,  South  English,  Iowa. 

To  Can  Beef. — Take  fresh  beef  that  has  not  been  frozen  or 
washed  in  water  and  cut  it  off  the  bones.  Then  take  half  gallon 
fruit  jars  that  are  fresh  and  clean,  with  good  lids  and  rubbers  (old 
rubbers  will  do).  Cut  the  meat  into  strips  small  enough  to  put  into 
these  jars,  and  salt  and  pepper  them  enough  to  season.  Fill  the 
jars  with  meat,  put  on  rubbers  and  lids,  and  screw  part  way  down. 
Leave  the  lids  loose  enough,  so  the  steam  can  escape.  Put  the  boil- 
er on  the  stove  with  the  bottom  covered  inside  with  boards.  Set  the 
jars  in,  fill  the  boiler  with  cold  water  until  it  reaches  nearly  to  the 
tops  of  the  cans.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  continue  hard  boiling  for  four 
hours.  If  the  water  boils  away,  refill  with  boiling  water.  When  the 
time  is  up,  take  out  the  jars,  wipe  clean,  put  on  new  rubbers  and 
screw  the  lids  down  tight.  Place  in  a  cool  cellar  and  it  will  keep 
all  summer.  To  prepare  it  for  the  table,  take  the  meat  out  of  the 
jars  and  put  it  in  a  little  water  and  heat  through.  It  is  then  ready 
to  eat.  It  is  also  good  cold. — Sister  Sovilla  Schwab,  Grundy  Cen- 
ter, Iozva. — Use  seasoning  in  the  proportion  of  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  2  of  sugar  and  1  of  pepper.  To  tell  when  the  meat  is  done,  re- 
move the  top  from  a  can  and  try  with  a  fork.  When  done  remove 
fire  or  remove  boiler  from  stove  with  the  can  in  it  and  let  cool  a  little 
to  prevent  jars  from  burning  when  taken  out  of  the  water.  In  pre- 
paring for  the  table  make  a  gravy  of  the  broth. — Sister  Carrie  Mar^ 
tin,  Mankato,  Kans. 

Canned  Cabbage. — Cut  the  cabbage  into  as  large  pieces  as 
can  be  put  into  the  jars,  cook  in  salty  water  till  tender,  put  in  jars, 
stand  the  jars  top  down  and  let  all  the  water  drain  out;  then  fill  the 
jars  with  boiling  vinegar,  containing  spices  (cloves  are  best),  and 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


331 


sweetened  to  suit  the  taste.  Seal  while  hot.  It  is  then  ready  for 
the  table  at  any  time. — Sister  L.  V.  Forehand,  Gerster,  Mo. 

To  Can  Cabbage. — Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine  on  the  slaw 
cutter,  and  steam  quickly  with  y2  pint  of  water  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  salt.  When  tender,  put  in  glass  cans.  Let  the  cabbage  contain  as 
little  of  the  water  as  possible.  Seal  up  tight  and  it  will  keep  fresh 
until  late  in  the  winter.  To  prepare  it  for  the  table :  Drain  all  the 
water  from  the  cabbage  that  has  been  contained  in  canning,  and  put 
over  to  heat.  Make  a  dressing  with  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  cream,  ]/2  cup  of  vinegar 
and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — Sister  Eliza  A. 
Wenger,  Long  glade,  Fa- 
Canned  Corn. — Gather  the  corn  early,  the  same  day  it  is  to 
be  used,  husk,  silk,  and  cut  from  the  cob  carefully.  Use  corn  not 
too  old,  cut  the  corn  in  a  shallow  pan ;  if  the  pan  is  held  on  the  lap, 
put  a  board  under  it  to  prevent  heat  from  the  body  reaching  the 
corn.  Fill  quart  or  half-gallon  jars  with  the  corn,  putting  in  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  pressing  it  firmly  with  some  blunt  instrument.  As 
soon  as  it  can  be  reached  with  the  fingers  press  down  until  the  can 
is  very  full.  Wipe  the  can,  put  on  new  rubbers,  screw  cover  as 
tight  as  you  can  with  thumb  and  fingers ;  it  must  not  be  too  tight, 
as  the  air  that  accumulates  must  escape.  Fill  only  as  many  cans  as 
your  boiler  or  kettle  will  hold,  wrap  each  can  in  a  cloth  to  prevent 
breaking;  place  the  cans  in  kettle  either  horizontally  or  upright, 
cover  entirely  with  cold  water,  place  cover  on  kettle ;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  boil  steadily  3  hours ;  if  half-gallon  jars,  boil  4  hours ;  keep  the 
water  boiling  steadily  and  the  jars  well  covered  with  water;  replen- 
ish with  hot  water  as  the  water  evaporates.  When  done,  let  the  fire 
go  out  or  remove  from  the  stove ;  leave  the  cans  in  the  water  till 
cool  enough  to  bear  the  hands  in  it,  then  with  a  can  screw,  screw  the 
covers  on  as  tight  as  possible.  Set  the  cans  in  a  cool  place,  tighten 
at  night  and  in  the  morning.  WVap  in  dark  papers  and  put  in  a 
cool,  dark,  airy  place. — Sister  Ella  Stutsman,  Clayton,  Ind. 


332 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


Canned  Cherries. — Prepare  the  cherries  by  picking  off  the 
stems ;  wash  them  well,  sort,  and  remove  the  seeds  with  the  thumb 
and  finger  so  as  not  to  mash  them  as  much  as  by  using  the  cherry 
seeder.  To  2y2  cups  of  seeded  cherries  take  Y<\  cup  of  sugar.  Let 
them  come  to  a  boil,  and  skim.  This  will  fill  1  quart  can.  Use  no 
water  only  the  juice  of  the  cherries  and  the  sugar.  Can  in  glass 
cans,  seal  with  sealing  wax.  It  is  best  not  to  cook  more  cherries  at 
one  time  than  enough  to  fill  2  quart  cans.  If  the  juice  will  not  all 
go  in  the  cans,  save  it  till  you  have  enough  to  fill  a  can  or  bottle. 
Strain  it.  then  let  come  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  can. — Sister  Nancy  Mar- 
tin, Covington,  Ohio. 

To  Can  Corn. — Take  10  cups  of  corn,  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
y2  cup  of  salt.  Mix  and  let  stand  over  night;  then  boil  15  minutes 
and  can  while  boiling  hot. — Sister  Mollie  Zarger,  Franklin  Grove, 
III. 

To  Can  Corn. — Take  12  cups  of  corn,  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
1  cup  of  salt.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Boil  5  minutes,  press  lightly  in 
glass  jars  and  seal.   This  corn  will  form  its  own  juice. — Sister  L.  E. 

Kindig,  Hohnesvillc,  Xebr. 

To  Can  Corn. — To  9  pints  of  corn  take  1  pint  of  salt,  1  pint 
of  sugar,  and  1  pint  of  water.  Cook  till  done,  stirring  often.  Do 
not  put  in  any  more  water  while  cooking.  Put  in  jars,  seal  tight, 
and  when  cool  wrap  in  paper  and  put  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  To  pre- 
pare it  for  the  table  take  the  corn  from  the  can,  drain  off  the  brine, 
soak  in  1  gallon  of  water  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night,  drain 
and  cook  a  few  minutes,  seasoning  with  butter  and  pepper  and  a  lit- 
tle sugar. — Sister  R.  D.  Kirkendall,  Niotasc,  Kans. 

To  Can  Corn  without  Acid. — After  cutting  corn  from  the 
cob,  put  it  into  a  granite  sauce  kettle,  with  enough  water  to  cover, 
and  boil  as  for  table.  When  nearly  done,  add  }i  pint  of  salt  for 
every  8  pints  of  corn  and  boil  10  minutes  longer.  Can  in  glass  cans. 
Be  sure  to  have  brine  enough  in  each  can  to  cover  corn :  if  this  is 
neglected  the  corn  will  spoil.  To  prepare  it  for  the  table :  Take  the 
corn  from  the  can,  drain  off  the  brine  and  cover  to  about  2  inches 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


333 


with  water.  Boil  10  minutes  and  drain  again ;  then  add  1  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  season  with  butter  and 
pepper. — Sister  D.  P.  Miller,  Emma,  Ind. 

Canned  Dandelion. — Boil  dandelion  until  tender.  While  hot 
pack  in  a  can,  disregarding  the  water.  Fill  the  can  with  boiling 
vinegar,  and  seal  the  same  as  fruit. — Sister  Catharine  W ampler, 
Dayton,  Va, 

Canned  Grapes. — Wash  your  grapes  and  fill  your  jars.  Stand 
the  jars  in  a  warm  place.  I  set  mine  on  the  back  of  the  range, 
where  they  gradually  get  quite  hot  and  form  some  juices  of  their 
own.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  2  cups  of  sugar  to  1  quart 
of  water.  Let  boil  and  pour  over  the  grapes.  Have  good  lids  and 
new  rubbers.  Seal  and  pack  away  as  you  do  your  fruit.  They  are 
like  fresh  grapes  and  are  fine  for  the  sick. — Sister  C.  S.  Colony, 
York,  N.  Dak. 

To  Can  Grapes  So  They  Will  Not  Harden. — To  every  gal- 
lon of  grapes  add  1  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  until  the  seed  and  pulp  have 
separated ;  the  seed  will  settle  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Seal  up 
in  glass  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place. — Sister  Eliza  A.  Wen- 
ger,  Long  Glade,  Va. 

Canned  Peaches. — Select  fine  freestone  peaches,  wash,  pare, 
cut  in  two  and  stone  them,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  fruit.  See 
that  the  peaches  are  not  over-ripe.  Put  in  a  kettle  1  quart  of  cold 
water  and  1  cup  of  sugar ;  put  in  this  2  quarts  of  the  cut  peaches ; 
bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  As  soon  as  they  are  easily  pierced  with  a 
fork,  put  them  in  the  can,  fill  up  with  the  juice,  and  seal. — Sister 
Mary  Gibbet,  Inavale,  Nebr. 

Excellent  Canned  Peaches. — Prepare  peaches  as  usual.  Put 
on  in  water  and  boil  until  about  half  done.  Have  ready  another 
kettle  containing  a  pint  of  water  and  Yz  cup  of  sugar.  Have  this 
boiling.  Dip  the  half-cooked  fruit  into  this,  let  boil  through  and  put 
in  jars  and  seal.  This  par  boiling  rids  the  fruit  of  the  red — next  the 
seed;  also  the  bitter  taste.  Peaches  canned  this  way  are  far  su- 
perior to  those  canned  in  the  ordinary  way. — Sister  Susie  M.  Hout, 
Sharpsburg,  Md. 


334 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


Canned  Plums. — To  every  pound  of  plums  allow  J4  pound 
of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  and  plums  alternately  into  the  preserving 
kettle,  first  pricking  the  plums  to  prevent  their  breaking.  Then  put 
them  over  a  moderate  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Skim  and  pour 
at  once  into  jars,  running  a  silver  spoon  handle  around  the  inside 
of  the  jar- to  break  the  air  bubbles.  Cover  and  screw  down  the  tops. 
— Sister  Pearle  F.  Benner,  Duncansville,  Pa. 

Canned  Plums. — Have  ready  plenty  of  boiling  water.  Put 
plums  into  earthen  or  porcelain  vessels.  Pour  over  boiling  water, 
set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  hearth  and  cover.  Let  stand  twenty 
minutes ;  then  pour  off  the  water  and  cover  again  with  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  twenty  minutes  longer.  Have  ready  a  vessel  with  syrup, 
allowing  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit,  or  more  sugar  if  de- 
sired very  sweet.  Dip  the  plums  into  jars,  being  careful  to  drain 
the  water  from  them.  Pour  over  the  boiling  syrup  and  seal.  Plums 
canned  this  way  will  keep  without  bursting  and  breaking  the  fruit, 
and  will  be  of  excellent  flavor,  all  the  undesirable  qualities  being 
taken  from  them.— Sister  Susie  M.  Hoxit,  Sharpsburg,  Md. 

Canned  Pineapple. — Take  6  pineapples,  peel  and  slice  into 
quite  thin  slices,  add  4  cups  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning,  put  on  and  boil  slowly  for  one  hour,  then  can  in  glass 
jars.  You  can  use  half  rhubarb  if  you  wish.  In  this 
case,  you  should  cook  the  rhubarb  separate  and,  when  done,  add  it  to 
the  cooked  pineapple  and  can. — Sister  Jennie  Sheeler,  Kingsley, 
Iowa. 

Canned  Pineapple. — Take  nice  sound  fruit — large  pineap- 
ples pay  better  than  small  ones — cut  in  thin  slices  and  pare  them. 
Be  sure  to  get  out  all  the  little  specks  of  skin.  After  paring  cut  in 
pieces  and  grind  through  the  meat  grinder,  or,  chip  it  in  small  pieces, 
or,  grate  fine.  Have  your  cans  clean  and  well  heated.  Use  one  cup 
of  sugar  to  every  quart  of  fruit,  cook  as  long  as  you  do  any  other 
kind  of  fruit,  fill  cans,  and  seal. — Sister  D.  L.  Miller,  Mt.  Morris, 
III. 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


335 


When  preparing  pineapple  for  canning  wash  the  hands  fre- 
quently in  soda  water  and  they  will  not  get  sore. — Sister  Mollie 
Zarger,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

To  Can  Raspberries. — Carefully  clean  the  raspberries  and 
wash.  To  1  quart  of  berries  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
enough  hot  water  nearly  to  cover  them.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil, 
fill  the  can  and  seal  at  once. — Sister  Mollie  Conway,  Bradford,  Ohio. 

To  Can  Raspberries  and  Grapes. — Have  the  fruit  picked, 
over,  washed,  and  drained.  Have  the  teakettle  full  of  fresh  water 
boiling.  Have  a  granite  pan,  as  wide  as  the  height  of  the  jar,  stand- 
ing on  the  stove,  with  hot  water  in.  Roll  the  jar  in  this  till  very  hot, 
then  stand  upright  in  the  water.  Lay  the  jar  cap  and  rubber  ring 
in  the  pan  until  wanted.  Now  fill  the  jar  one-fourth  full  of  berries, 
using  a  wide-necked  funnel ;  pour  boiling  water  from  the  teakettle 
to  the  level  of  the  berries.  Make  the  jar  half  full  of  berries,  and 
pour  boiling  water  to  their  level.  Shake  down  the  berries  as  you 
go.  Then  make  it  three-fourths  full,  and  pour  again.  Lastly  fill  the 
jar,  and  pour  until  the  water  overflows  freely.  With  a  fork  lift 
the  rubber  ring  and  cap,  adjust  quickly.  Lift  out  on  a  wet  cloth  or  a 
board  and  finish  the  screwing-up  process.  In  canning  this  way, 
have  everything  as  hot  as  possible.  You  wTill  be  pleased  with  the  re- 
sult.— Sister  Ad  aline  H.  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

To  Can  Rhubarb  without  Cooking. — Wash  but  do  not  re- 
move the  skin.  Cut  in  rather  small  pieces, .and  fill  a  clean  glass  jar, 
shaking  down  several  times  during  the  operation.  Press  in  the  top 
pieces  with  the  fingers.  Fill  with  freshly-drawn  cold  water,  allow- 
ing it  to  overflow  till  the  air-bubbles  have  disappeared.  Lift  the 
rubber  and  cap  out  of  clean  cold  water.  Screw  up  tightly  and  set 
away  in  the  cellar  at  once. — Sister  Judith  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

Canning  Sauerkraut. — Boil  kraut  till  done,  put  in  jars,  press 
down  solid,  and  seal  while  hot.  Season  when  opened. — Sister  D.  F. 
Kelley,  Horneworth,  Ohio. 


336 


PRESERVING    AND  CANNING 


To  Make  Sauerkraut. — Cut  cabbage  in  halves  or  quarters, 
according  to  size.  Then  wash  it  and  let  it  drain;  cut  with  kraut 
cutter  or  knife.  Have  ready  the  vessel:  put  4  gallons  of  cut  cab- 
bage in  the  vessel,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  then  stamp 
with  a  kraut  stamper.  Repeat  this  until  the  amount  of  kraut  desired 
is  in  the  vessel ;  then  put  clean  cabbage  leaves  over  the  top ;  have 
a  lid  to  fit  the  vessel,  then  put  on  a  heavy  press  and  let  it  ferment. — 
Sister  Lizzie  Kimmel,  Elklick,  Pa. 

Canned  Strawberries. — Take  4  pints  of  strawberries,  and  1 
pint  of  sugar ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  can  while  hot.  Let 
stand  a  few  days,  then  wrap  paper  around  the  can  and  keep  as  dark 
as  possible. — Sister  Nancy  Martin,  Covington,  Ohio. 

Canned  Strawberries. — Take  1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
with  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  3 
pints  of  strawberries.  Boil  2  minutes,  then  add  1  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  water.  This  will  fill  a  1-quart  jar.  If  there 
is  any  juice  left,  use  it  to  dissolve  the  sugar  for  the  next  3  pints  of 
berries,  instead  of  adding  water. — Sister  Emma  Amick,  ldaville, 
Ind. 

To  Dry  Green  Pod  Beans. — Gather  the  beans  in  the  evening, 
and  string  them.  In  the  morning  wash  them,  and  boil  them  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  well  heated  through.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire,  drain  all  the  water  off,  and  dry  in  the  sun.  When  cooked 
with  meat  they  are  nearly  as  good  as  fresh  green  beans. — Sister 
Mary  E.  Ritter,  Crescent,  Okla, 

To  Salt  Sweet  Corn.— Boil  the  corn  till  heated  through,  cut 
if  off  the  cob  and  let  get  cold ;  to  7  cups  of  corn  add  1  cup  of  salt ; 
mix  well  together  and  pack  in  an  earthen  jar;  put  cloth  and  weight 
on  top.    Freshen  when  used. — Sister  Flora  Doughty,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Mock  Mince. — Pare  green  tomatoes  and  when  you  have  2 
gallons,  slice  and  boil  them  in  salt  water.  When  done  drain  and 
add  1  quart  of  strong  vinegar,  1  quart  of  water,  4  pounds  of  raisins, 


PRESERVING   AND    CANNING  337 

2  pounds  of  English  currants,  which  were  previously  soaked  in  water 
or  boiled  a  little,  if  not  seeded  ones,  4  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar 
and  cinnamon  to  suit  the  taste.  Boil  all  together  10  minutes  and 
can.  Will  keep  same  as  fruit. — Sister  S.  E.  Fausnight,  Hartville, 
Ohio, 


PRESERVING    ANT  CANNING 


In  making  ice  cream,  the  finer  the  ice  is  broken  the  sooner  the 
cream  will  freeze.  Use  salt — "  Diamond  C  "  rock  salt  is  best — in 
the  proportion  of  three  pints  to  ten  quarts  of  fine  ice.  This  is  suffi- 
cient to  freeze  one  gallon  of  cream.  When  the  cream  is  frozen  re- 
move the  beater,  if  a  regulation  freezer  has  been  used,  and  pack  the 
cream  into  a  compact  mass.  If  it  is  to  stand  for  several  hours — and  it 
is  better  if  it  stands  awhile — repack  with  fresh  ice  and  salt  and  cover 
with  a  heavy  carpet  or  blanket.  If  ice  is  scarce,  use  many  thick- 
nesses of  newspaper  in  repacking,  wrapping  them  closely  about  the 
can.  When  through  with  the  freezer,  drain  the  water  from  the  salt 
dry  and  use  again.  The  ice  may  easily  be  reduced  to  proper  fine- 
ness by  placing  the  large  pieces  in  a  sack — a  good  gunny  sack  will 
do — and  pounding  with  a  large  hammer  or  the  side  of  an  ax. 

Ice  Cream. — To  make  1  gallon,  let  1  quart  of  milk  come  to 
a  boil,  and  thicken  with  cornstarch,  Let  cool,  then  add  1  quart 
of  milk,  1  quart  of  cream,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  1  pound  of  sugar. 
Favor  to  taste. — Sister  Malinda  S.  Geib,  Mastersonville,  Pa. 

Ice  Cream. — Take  3  pints  of  milk,  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  3  eggs  and  1  quart  of  cream.  Boil  milk,  sugar  and  eggs  to- 
gether until  the  custard  thickens  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon  mixed.  Do  not  add  the  flavoring  until 
cream  is  about  half  frozen,  as  it  retains  its  strength  better;  but  if 
chocolate  is  used,  boil  it  in  the  milk. — Sister  Rachel  Myers,  Ore 
Hill,  Pa. 

Ice  Cream. — To  1  quart  of  milk  just  coming  to  a  boil  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  dissolved  cornstarch.  Let  it  boil  20  minutes,  then 
strain  and  put  in  a  freezer.  When  cool,  add  1  quart  of  cream  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  flavoring  and  freeze. — Sister  A.  W .  Hawbaker,  Ken- 
mare,  N.  Dak.  339 


340 


ICE  CREAM   AND  DRINKS 


Ice  Cream. — Mix  thoroughly  V/2  pints  of  sugar  with  2/z 
pint  of  flour.  Add  a  little  cold  milk  and  6  eggs  beaten  very  light ; 
stir  the  whole  together.  Have  1  quart  of  sweet  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  let  come  to  the  boiling  heat,  and  stir  in  the  above  mixture, 
stirring  constantly  till  it  thickens.  Strain  and  add  2  quarts  of  cream, 
\y2  quarts  of  sweet  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon. 
Freeze,  and  let  it  stand  4  or  5  hours  before  using. — Sister  Sue 
Sister }  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Ice  Cream. — Take  6  or  8  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon- 
ful of  any  flavoring  liked.  Beat  well  together,  then  add  1  gallon 
of  rich  milk  and  freeze  hard. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Taylor,  Pier  son, 
Iowa, 

Ice  Cream. — Take  V/2  quarts  of  sweet  imlk,  2  quarts  of  sweet 
cream,  lJ/2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs  and  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Heat  to  a  scald  1  pint  of  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  yolks  of 
eggs.  Cool  and  flavor  to  taste.  Stir  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  just  before  freezing,  and  add  the  milk.  If  a  richer  cream 
is  desired  we  leave  out  all  or  a  part  of  the  milk,  just  to  suit  the 
taste  of  the  one  making  it.  I  like  a  rich  cream. — Sister  Ida  Sals- 
bury,  Barron,  Wis. 

Economical  Ice  Cream. — Take  3  quarts  of  milk,  3  pints  of 
cream,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  not  corn- 
starch. Beat  the  eggs  and  add  1  quart  of  milk.  Cook  in  double 
boiler ;  when  hot,  add  the  sugar  and  flour  well  mixed.  Cook  5  min- 
utes, stirring  often  so  it  will  be  smooth ;  cool,  add  the  remainder  of 
the  milk  and  cream,  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze.  This  will  make  6 
quarts  when  frozen,  and  will  not  melt  readily. — Sister  Ella  Stuts- 
man, Clayton,  Ohio. 

Frozen  Fruit. — Take  1  quart  of  peaches  or  apricots,  1  pint 
of  sugar,  \y2  pints  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  gelatin,  the  juice  of 
1  lemon,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs.  Put  the  fruit  through  a  sieve. 
Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  a  small  amount  of  water.  Have  the  remain- 
der of  the  water  boiling  and  pour  over  the  gelatin;  add  sugar,  stir 
and  let  come  to  the  boiling  point.  Cool,  add  the  fruit,  lemon  juice, 
and  y2  teaspoonful  each  of  vanilla  and  lemon  extract,  if  preferred, 


ICE  CREAM   AND  DRINKS 


341 


Put  into  a  freezer.  When  just  beginning  to  thicken,  add  the  two 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Churn  until  done.  Remove  the  flyers  from 
the  freezer  and  pack  the  fruit.  In  two  or  three  hours,  if  well  packed, 
it  will  be  nice  and  firm,  and  ready  to  serve. — Sister  J.  P.  Holsinger, 
Mount  Morris,  III. 

Orange  Cream. — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream,  2 
cups  of  sugar  and  4  oranges.  Grate  rind  and  squeeze  juice  of  or- 
anges— putting  sugar  with  them  and  let  stand  one  hour;  add  milk 
and  cream  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way. — Sister  Jos.  H.  Johnson, 
Royersford,  Pa. 

Orange  Ice. — Take  the  juice  of  6  oranges,  1  quart  of  water, 
1  tablespoonful  of  good  gelatine,  1  pint  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  3 
eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  %  of  the  water  for  5  minutes ;  boil  the 
remainder  of  the  water  and  add  the  gelatine,  sugar,  and  strained 
juice.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  when  very  cold  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  in  freezer  and  freeze  in  usual  manner. — 
Sister  F.  0.  Burket,  Topeka,  Kans. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. — Take  3  pints  of  cream,  3  pints  of  milk, 
6  eggs,  Zy2  cups  of  sugar,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  1  can  of  peaches.  Cook  cornstarch,  milk 
and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  together.  Let  cool,  then  add  the  cream, 
peaches  and  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  freeze. — Sister  Zura  L.  Peck, 
Meyersdale,  Pa. 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream, — To  2  quarts  of  rich  cream  add  1 
pound  of  pulverized  sugar  and  4  eggs  well  beaten ;  mix  together 
well,  then  place  on  the  fire,  stirring  constantly  until  brought  to  the 
boiling  point.  Remove  immediately  and  continue  to  stir  until  cold. 
Add  vanilla  to  taste,  place  in  a  freezer  and  when  about  half  frozen 
mix  thoroughly  into  it  1  pound  of  preserved  fruits  in  equal  parts  of 
peaches,  cherries,  pineapple,  orange,  banana,  etc.  All  these  fruits 
are  to  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  mixed  well  with  the  frozen  cream. 
If  you  desire  to  mold  this  cream,  sprinkle  with  a  little  carmine  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water  with  2  drops  of  spirits  of  ammonia.  Mix  a 
color  in  this,  so  it  will  be  in  veins  like  marble. — Sister  Rose  E. 
Smith,  Dunlap,  Kans. 


342 


ICE    CREAM    AND  DRINKS 


Lemon  Sherbet. — Take  the  juice  of  6  lemons,  5  pints  of 
water,  3  teacupfuls  of  sugar.  Squeeze  the  lemons  and  strain.  Add 
sugar  and  water,  and  freeze.  When  frozen  to  mushy  ice,  add  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  finish  freezing. — Sister  Emily 
Shirky,  Rockingham,  Mo. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — For  1  gallon  of  sherbet  grate  2  pine- 
apples, add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Sweeten  with  \y2  pints  of  sugar 
and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  a  gallon.  Leave  stand  in  freezer 
until  thoroughly  chilled,  then  turn  freezer  every  few  minutes.  When 
about  frozen,  remove  stirrer  from  can  and  leave  stand  for  1  hour. 
Serve  in  sherbet  glasses. — Sister  J.  J.  Keim,  Elklick,  Pa. 

Chocolate. — Take  1  pint  of  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
stir  in  ^4  cup  of  grated  chocolate.  Let  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  remove 
from  the  stove,  and  add  2  quarts  of  fresh  milk,  and  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste.  Put  back  on  the  stove,  let  get  scalding  hot,  but  be  careful  not 
to  let  it  boil,  as  boiling  spoils  it.  This  will  make  about  8  cups. — 
Sister  Jennie  A.  Crofford,  Martinsburg,  Pa. 

To  Make  Chocolate. — Take  the  amount  of  shaved  or  grated 
chocolate,  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  lie 
on  a  nickel  for  each  cup  to  be  made.  Mix  well.  Now  take  equal 
amounts  of  water  and  rich  milk  and  put  the  above-mentioned  in- 
gredients in  it  and  boil,  stirring  continuously.  In  the  countries 
where  the  chocolate  comes  from  they  use  a  pinch  of  ground  cinna- 
mon to  the  chocolate,  and  then  boil.  Enough  must  be  used  to  give 
it  a  cinnamon  flavor.  It  will  probably  suit  the  taste  of  our  readers 
better  if,  when  the  drink  is  made,  it  is  slightly  flavored  with  extract 
of  vanilla,  added  just  after  the  pot  is  taken  from  the  fire.  It  should 
be  stirred  in.  The  trick  of  putting  the  flour  in  should  not  be  for- 
gotten. Its  use  is  in  holding  the  chocolate  in  suspension. — Sister 
Bessie  Royer  Bates,  Elgin,  III. 

Buttermilk  Coffee. — Boil  together  1  quart  of  buttermilk  and 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Make  a  thin  batter,  using  1  egg,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  and  sweet  milk.  Add  to  the  boiling  milk,  sweeten,  and 
serve  as  coffee. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Nappanee,  Ind. 


ICE    CREAM    AND  DRINKS 


343 


Hygienic  Coffee. — Take  good  clean  wheat,  wash  and  dry  it 
and  put  it  in  a  large  dripping  pan  in  a  hot  oven ;  roast  until  a  golden 
brown,  stirring  often.  Then  to  every  quart  of  wheat  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  finish  roast- 
ing to  a  nice  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  It  must  be  watched  closely 
as  it  will  burn  easily  when  the  butter  and  molasses  are  added.  Do 
not  grind  but  use  the  whole  grain ;  the  boiling  will  burst  the  grain 
and  thus  the  nutriment  will  be  obtained  and  the  flavor  will  be  better 
and  the  coffee  clearer  than  if  ground.  Like  other  hygienic  coffee, 
the  longer  the  boiling  the  better. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  Mc- 
Pherson,  Kans. 

Making  Coffee. — No  person  c'an  make  a  cup  of  good  coffee 
out  of  an  inferior  grade  of  the  berry.  The  best  is  a  mixture  of  ^ 
Mocha  and  Java,  half  and  half,  ground  together.  The  coffeepot 
must  be  rinsed  clean,  and  a  cup  of  ground  coffee  put  in  it,  then  add 
either  6  or  8  cups  of  water  that  has  been  freshly  boiled.  Then  set 
where  it  is  as  near  the  boiling  point  as  possible  without  actually 
boiling.  It  should  remain  on  the  stove,  steeping,  for  20  minutes, 
and  an  hour  will  not  hurt  it.  The  secret  of  making  good  coffee  is 
not  allowing  it  to  boil.  Use  no  so-called  extract  of  coffee,  which  is 
nothing  but  burned  sugar  and  does  nothing  but  color  the  decoction. 
To  make  cafe  an  lait,  take  half  as  much  strong  coffee  as  may  be 
needed  and  pour  in  the  pot  as  much  more  rich,  sweet  milk.  Let  this 
just  come  to  the  boil  and  serve. — Sister  Bessie  Royer  Bates,  Elgin, 
III 

Lemonade. — Take  2  lemons,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
2  quarts  of  water.  If  you  have  no  lemon  squeezer,  slice  the  lemons 
in  round  slices,  put  the  sugar  on  and  press  out  the  juice  with  a 
potato  masher. — Sister  Mary  Wampler,  Dayton,  Va. 

Lemonade. — For  1  quart  of  lemonade  take  2  lemons.  Wash 
the  lemon,  slice  fine  into  a  pitcher,  add  2  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  stirring  in  with  the  lemon  well  before  putting  in  the  water. 
Fill  up  with  cold  water  to  make  1  quart. — Sister  Annie  Lint,  Quin- 
ter,  Kans. 


344 


ICE    CREAM    AND  DRINKS 


Lemonade  Syrup. — Take  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1 
ounce  of  citric  acid,  and  \y2  pints  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until 
thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  sixty  drops  of  oil  of  lemon.  Bottle. 
For  a  drink  put  about  3  tablespoonfuls  in  a  tumbler  and  fill  up  with 
fresh  water.  This  is  cheaper  than  lemons  and  a  very  good  sub- 
stitute.— Sister  Judith  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

Cream  Mead. — Take  3  pounds  of  soft  sugar  dissolved  in  1 
quart  of  water,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  \y2  ounces  of  tartaric 
acid,  dissolved  in  24  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  flavor  with  oil  of  lemon. 
— Sister  Jennie  Brown,  Whitewater,  Ind. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Mash  1  pound  of  berries  and  put  them 
into  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Put  the  same  amount  of  berries  into  this 
same  vinegar  for  3  successive  mornings,  then  drain  through  a  cloth 
and  add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  the  strained  juice.  Let 
simmer  and  skim ;  when  cold,  bottle.  Can  be  used  any  time  adul- 
terated with  2/z  water. — Sister  Annie  R.  Stoncr,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

A  Refreshing  Drink. — Take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  root  beer; 
add  1  lemon  sliced  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Place  in  a  gallon 
jar,  add  a  large  lump  of  ice  and  fill  the  jar  with  water. — Sister  Will- 
oughby  Felker,  Leaf  River,  III. 

Soda  Water. — Take  2  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  2  pounds  of  white  sugar,  3  pints  of  water;  boil  together  5 
minutes.  When  nearly  cold,  add,  after  beating  together,  the  whites 
of  3  eggs,  Yi  cup  of  flour  made  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  1 
ounce  of  wintergreen  essence.  Mix  well,  put  in  glass  jars  or  pint 
bottles  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  For  a  drink,  take  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  the  syrup  to  2/$  tumbler  of  cold  water,  and  34  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Stir  until  creamy  with  foam.  This  is  very  refreshing  in  hot 
weather. — Sister  Ad  aline  Hohf  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 

To  Boil  Water  for  Drinking. — Rinse  out  the  teakettle  clean ; 
fill  with  freshly-drawn  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  quickly,  and  as  soon 
as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  pour  out  into  cups  and  serve.  This 
is  more  palatable  than  water  that  has  been  boiling  a  long  time. — 
Sister  Ada-line  H.  Beery,  Elgin,  III. 


ICE    CREAM    AND  DRINKS 


345 


Unfermented  Wine. — Place  twenty  pounds  of  stemmed  and 
washed  grapes  into  a  four-gallon  jar,  scald  with  six  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  stir  thoroughly  and  let  stand  until  cool.  Strain  through 
a  jelly  bag,  bring  to  a  boil,  sweeten  to  suit  taste  and  can  in  mason 
jars. — Sister  Nora  E.  Petry,  Westminster,  Md. 


346 


ICE    CREAM    ASD  DRINKS 


In  the  making  of  candy  as  well  as  most  other  products  of  the 
kitchen,  book  knowledge  will  hardly  insure  success  unless  coupled 
with  more  or  less  actual  experience.  If  the  materials  used  in  candy 
are  pure,  it  possesses  no  little  food  value;  the  evils  resulting  from  its 
use  may  usually  be  traced  to  overeating  or  eating  at  ill-timed  hours. 
If  we  are  to  be  safe  on  the  point  of  purity  and  wholesomeness  in  the 
candy  we  eat  it  is  best  to  know  the  nature  of  all  ingredients  used 
and  then  learn  to  put  them  together  successfully  for  ourselves. 

Candy. — Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  stiff,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  and  mix  in  powdered  sugar  until  enough  to 
knead  like  dough.  Use  this  to  make  different  kinds  of  candy.  Dip 
balls  of  it  in  chocolate,  put  nuts  in  it  or  sprinkle  shredded  cocoanut 
through  it. — Sister  Orvilla  C.  Ogle,  Adams,  Nebr. 

Caramel  Candy. — Take  one  pound  of  glucose,  2  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  1  quart  of  milk.  Boil  until  thick,  then  add  1  more  quart 
of  milk  and  34  pound  of  butter,  and  boil  until  it  hardens  in  water. 
Then  put  in  chopped  nuts  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan.  Stir  all  the 
time  while  cooking. — Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman,  Elgin,  III. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2 
cup  of  water.  Boil  6  minutes  and  add  1  grated  cocoanut.  As  soon 
as  the  sugar  is  soft,  spread  on  white  greased  papers,  and  when  cold 
cut  in  squares. — Sister  S.  S.  Blough,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

Cream  Candy. — Take  J/2  pound  of  glucose  and  2yi  pounds 
of  sugar.  Moisten  the  sugar  with  water,  then  add  y2  pint  of  milk. 
Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  When  it  has  boiled  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  taffy,  set  the  cooking  vessel  in  cold  water  and  beat  until  it  is 
creamy;  then  flavor  to  taste. — Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman, 
Elgin,  III. 

347 


348 


ICE    CREAM    AND  DRINKS 


Christmas  Candy  Loaf. — Take  2  pounds  of  glucose,  4  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Boil  until  it  will 
form  a  soft  ball  when  dipped  in  cold  water.  Beat  until  cool 
enough  to  stir  in  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla  and  1  pound  of  shelled  almonds.  If  properly  stirred  and 
then  placed  in  a  deep  custard  tin  it  can  be  sliced  off  like  cake.  Should 
be  made  several  days  before  wanted. — Sister  Lauren  T.  Miller, 
Elgin,  III. 

Cream  Candy. — Take  1  pound  of  confectioner's  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla. Beat  egg,  add  cream  and  vanilla,  and  beat  in  sugar  until  you 
cannot  beat.  Then  mix  like  pie  dough.  Shape  with  the  hand  and 
put  nuts  on  for  nut  candy ;  for  chocolate  candy  dip  in  melted  choco- 
late ;  for  cocoanut  candy  mix  in  cocoanut. — Sister  Emma  H.  Snyder, 
Royersford,  Pa. 

Cream  Candy. — Take  4  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water,  ^4 
cups  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Boil  until  it 
hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  to 
cool,  and  when  cool  pull  until  white. — Sister  Nellie  Hostetlcr,  South 
English,  Iowa. 

Cream  Candy. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  2/t,  cup  of  water  and 
a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar ;  boil  till  it  hardens  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Set  pan  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  cool.  When  cool 
enough  to  bear  fingers  in  it,  stir  briskly  till  it  leaves  the  pen.  Put  on 
kneading  board  and  knead  thoroughly  with  a  knife.  Put  into  molds. 
Colorings  and  flavorings  may  be  used  as  desired. — Sister  Emma 
Carsteiisen,  Girard,  III. 

Divinity  Candy. — Take  3  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  molasses  (table  syrup)  and  y2  cup  of  water.  Mix  and  boil  until 
it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Stir  till  cooled  a  little,  then  pour  over  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  hard  till  thick,  then  pour  on  platter. 
Nuts  or  cocoanut  may  be  used,  if  desired. — Sister  MoUie  Zarger, 
Franklin  Grove,  III. 


CANDY 


349 


Divinity  Candy. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  syrup 
(lily  white  or  any  good  corn  syrup),  ^4  CUP  of  water,  and  y2  cup  of 
finely  chopped  nuts.  Boil  the  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  it  hairs, 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Then  stir  it  into  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  add  the  nuts. 
When  getting  stiff,  pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cut  into  squares  be- 
fore cold. — Sister  Katie  E.  Keller,  Enterprise,  Mont. — Chopped  figs 
or  raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  the  nuts  or  in  addition  to  them. — 
Sister  J.  E.  Peck,  Reserve,  Kans. 

Marshmallow  Candy. — Part  One :  Dissolve  1  box  of  gelatine 
in  12  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Part  Two  :  Take  4  cups  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  12  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  boil  until  it 
threads.  Pour  part  two  into  part  one  and  beat.  Beat  for  15 
minutes  with  Dover  egg-beater,  flavor  and  then  beat  20  minutes 
with  a  flat  beater.  When  it  gets  too  stiff  to  beat  any  more,  pour  out 
on  a  plate  which  has  been  lined  with  pulverized  sugar,  then  turn  it 
over  onto  the  bread  board  which  has  been  covered  with  pulverized 
sugar.  Pat  and  knead  slightly  then  flatten  out  and  cut  in  squares. — 
Sister  Thomas  Jordan,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

Real  Marshmallows. — Soak  ]/2  pound  of  gum  Arabic  in  z 
pint  of  water.  When  dissolved,  add  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Stir  in  a  double  boiler.  When  thick  and  white  try  in  water.  If  it  is 
soft  and  not  in  hard  lumps,  then  stir  in  gradually  the  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Pour  in  cornstarch  molds. — Sister  Maude  Fahrney  Flora, 
Tzvin  Falls,  Idaho. 

Molasses  Candy. — Take  1  cup  of  molasses,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  10  minutes ;  then  cool  it  enough  to  pull. 
— Sister  Susie  Peters,  Emporia,  Kans. 

Sea  Foam  Candy. — Put  in  a  kettle  2  cups  of  sugar  with  J/2 
cup  of  water,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Stir  constantly 
until  it  boils  enough  to  thread  slightly.  Take  from  the  stove,  and 
beat  briskly  until  cool.  Pour  on  a  buttered  plate  and  cut  in  squares. 
— Sister  Ada  P.  Huffman,  Chnrchville,  Va. 


350 


CANDY 


Plain  Homemade  Candy, — Take  2  cups  of  light  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  as  much  cream  of  tartar  as  will  lie  on  a 
nickel.  Boil  all  together,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  hardens  when  a 
few  drops  are  tried  in  cold  water.  Flavor,  remove  the  kettle  from 
the  fire  and  continue  stirring  until  somewhat  cool.  Pour  it  out  on  a 
buttered  plate  or  pan  and  when  it  begins  to  harden,  with  a  buttered 
knife  cut  into  squares  or  other  figures.  For  chocolate  candy  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  to  the  above.  To  make  cocoanut 
candy  add  cocoanut  to  the  above  after  removing  from  the  fire,  or 
add  1  cup  of  finely-chopped  nut  meats  and  you  will  have  nut  candy. 
— Sister  Rachel  Dyck,  Monndridge,  Kans. 

Sea  Foam  Candy. — Put  3  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
of  water  and  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  in  a  saucepan.  Heat  it 
slowly  until  it  boils,  stirring  it  only  until  the  sugar  dissolves ;  then 
boil  till  it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire  and  when  it 
stops  bubbling  pour  in  slowly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Keep  beating  until  it  will  hold  its  shape,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla and  a  cup  of  pecan,  walnut  or  hickory  nut  meats  and  drop  in 
rough  piles  on  buttered  paper. — Sister  Lina  Riddlesbarger,  Belle- 
ville, Kans. 

Vinegar  Candy. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  vinegar 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  20  minutes  or  till 
it  hardens  in  water;  then  pour  into  greased  plates  to  cool.  Flavor, 
but  do  not  pull. — Sister  Susie  Peters,  Emporia,  Kans. 

Caramels  (Mexican). — Put  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  into 
a  clean,  iron  skillet  and  stir  constantly  over  a  slow  fire  until  sugar  is 
melted.  Then  add  1  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Add  next  1  cup  each  of  granulated  sugar  and  light 
brown  sugar  and  boil  steadily  until  the  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  1  cup  of 
coarsely-chopped  nuts,  stir  to  creamy  consistency  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  dish. — Sister  J.  F.  Thomas,  Inglewood,  Cal. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Take  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
of  molasses,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  pound  of 
grated  chocolate,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.    Boil  the  molasses, 


CANDY 


351 


butter,  sugar  and  flour  for  15  minutes,  stir  the  chocolate  into  the 
cream,  pour  it  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  boil  till  it  hardens  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Before  pouring  it  out  on  buttered  plates  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  As  it  cools,  crease  it  in  small  squares, 
keep  in  a  cool  place. — Sister  J.  E.  Price,  Dallas  Center,  Iowa. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Take  1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  and  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Boil 
till  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  water.  Then  add  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  and  1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnut  meats. 
Pour  into  buttered  pan,  and  when  partly  cool  cut  into  squares. — 
Sister  Maggie  C.  Stanffer,  Polo,  III. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  and 
cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  boil  them  together  for  just  5  minutes 
from  the  time  they  begin  to  boil.  Remove  from  the  stove,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  stir  constantly  until  cool  enough  to  work 
with  the  hands.  Roll  into  little  balls  and  lay  on  buttered  papers  to 
cool.  Put  Y\  of  a  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  in  a  bowl  and  put  the 
bowl  in  hot  water.  Do  not  add  water.  When  the  chocolate  is 
melted,  roll  the  balls  in  the  melted  chocolate  with  a  fork,  and  re- 
place them  on  the  buttered  papers.  This  makes  a  most  rich  and  de- 
licious candy.  When  the  white  mixture  has  partly  cooled,  it  may 
be  dropped  on  buttered  papers,  and  nut  meats  put  on  top,  making  it 
a  pleasing  variety. — Sister  Rhoda  E.  Price,  Polo,  III. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Take  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 
\y2  cups  of  water  and  boil  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water;  pour  on  a  buttered  plate  to  cool.  When 
cool  enough  that  it  can  be  handled  without  burning  your  hands, 
knead  it  as  you  would  bread  dougti,  when  it  will  form  into  a  soft 
creamy  mass  somewhat  resembling  powdered  sugar  icing.  It  is  then 
ready  to  shape.  Form  into  cones,  oblong,  or  any  desired  shape. 
Now  prepare  by  scraping  some  chocolate  into  a  small  dish  and  set 
the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  until  melted.  Do  not  add  a  drop 
of  water  to  the  chocolate.  Dip  the  candy  into  the  chocolate,  using 
a  knitting  needle  or  hat  pin  to  handle  it  with ;  drop  on  buttered  or 
oiled  paper. — Sister  Katie  R.  Trostle,  San  Gabriel,  CaL 


352  •  CANDY 

Fudge. — Take  %  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  34  cup  of  molasses,  and  y2  cup  of  sweet  cream. 
Boil  for  three  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil.    Beat  till  cool. — Sister 

Mollie  Zarger,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Candy  Fudge. — Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cuo  of 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  Baker's  chocolate  to  suit  the 
taste.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Beat  and  put  in  buttered  tins. 
Cut  in  squares. — Sister  Gladie  Swartz,  Goshen,  hid. 

Chocolate  Fudges. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  3/3  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  and  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate;  boil  till  it 
hairs  from  the  tines  of  a  fork.  Stir  briskly  till  cool,  pour  into  a  pan 
and  cut  into  squares. — Sister  Emma  Carstcnsen,  Girard,  III. 

Delicious  Fudge. — Boil  together  two  cups  of  either  maple 
or  table  syrup,  1  cup  of  water,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  When 
it  will  thread  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
While  this  mixture  has  been  boiling,  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar 
should  have  been  put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  y2  cup  of  cold 
water  and  boiled  without  stirring  until  it  thickens.  This  should  then 
be  beaten  up  with  the  stiffly-whipped  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  then 
stirred  into  the  first  preparation.  Beat  it  hard  for  twenty  minutes 
and  add  two  cups  of  nuts,  or  in  place  of  nuts  one  may  use  shredded 
cocoanut. — Sister  Verna  Cooney,  Enders,  Nebr. 

Taffy  Candy. — Take  1  pound  of  glucose  and  2  pounds  of 
sugar.  Mix  with  water  and  boil  until  brittle.  Do  not  stir  while 
cooking.  Pour  into  pan  and  when  cool  enough  pull  like  other  taffy. 
— Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman,  Elgin,  III. 

French  Taffy. — Take  2  pounds  of  glucose  and  1  pound  of 
sugar.  Dissolve  1  ounce  of  gelatin  in  a  little  water  and  y  pint  of 
cream.  When  a  little  warm,  put  in  1  ounce  of  paraffine.  Stir  paraf- 
fine,  gelatin  and  cream  all  together  until  it  is  dissolved.  Then  put 
in  the  glucose  and  sugar  and  boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  pan,  and  pull  when  cold  enough.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla.— Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman,  Elgin,  III. 


CANDY 


353 


Taffy  Made  of  Lily-White  Syrup. — Take  1  quart  of  lily- 
white  syrup,  [Any  good  table  syrup  might  be  used. — Ed.]  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil 
until  it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Flavor  with  Yz  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla. Pour  out  and  let  get  cool  enough  to  pull.  When  pulled,  cut 
into  pieces,  after  twisting  or  braiding. — Sister  Katie  E.  Keller,  En- 
terprise, Mont. 

Pop  Corn. — Take  V/2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
molasses  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  the  above 
ingredients  together  until  they  harden  in  cold  water,  then  stir  into 
this  syrup  ^  gallon  ground  popped  corn.  Stir  well  together,  then 
put  in  an  earthen  dish,  press  well  with  the  hands,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  over  night.  Add  flavoring  to  the  syrup  before  taking  from 
the  stove. — Sister  Lottie  P.  Suavely,  Kearney,  Nebr. 

To  Sugar  or  Crystallize  Pop  Corn. — Put  into  an  iron  kettle 
1  tablespoonful  of  water  and  1  cup  of  white  sugar.  Boil  until  ready 
to  candy,  then  put  in  three  quarts  of  corn  nicely  popped.  Stir 
briskly  until  candy  is  evenly  distributed  over  the  corn.  Set  the 
kettle  away  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  a  little  cooled,  and  you  have 
each  grain  separate  and  crystallized.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to 
have  fire  too  hot  lest  the  corn  be  scorched.  Nuts  of  any  kind  pre- 
pared in  this  way  are  delicious. — Sister  Katie  B.  Blouch,  Annville, 
Pa. 


354  CANDY 


SUNDAY  MENUS. 

Breakfast 

Fruit 

Cornflakes  Omelet 
Coffee 

Dinner 

Roastbeef  cold  Gravy 

Potatoes  Cabbage 
Pickled  eggs  Olives 
Pie  Cake  Fruit 

Ice  tea  or  Cocoa 

Lunch 

Pie  Fruit  Cookies 

Milk 
Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Potato  cakes 

Gravy  Pie  Coffee 

Dinner 

Pressed  chicken  Gravy 
Mashed  potatoes  Tomatoes 
Salad 

Cocoanut-puffs  Pie 
Lemonade  or  Tea 

Lunch 

Egg  or  ham  sandwiches 
Fruit  Cake  Tea 


355 


356 


MENUS 


I  have  given  the  subject  of  Sunday  meals  more  study  than  those 
of  any  other  day,  for  the  reason  that  I  greatly  oppose  much  cooking 
on  the  Lord's  Day,  and  too,  company  at  our  home  is  a  very  common 
occurrence,  and  a  third  reason,  I  need  to  prepare  the  meals  so  as  to 
be  able  to  reach  Sunday-school  on  time  and  then  to  get  dinner  quick- 
ly after  our  return  from  church.  You  will  notice  that  the  Sunday 
dinner  can  be  very  largely  prepared  on  Saturday.  The  beef  or 
chicken  can  be  cooked  or  roasted,  the  pie  and  cake  will  of  course 
be  baked  beforehand,  the  eggs  pickled.  The  potatoes  can  be  pared 
before  going  to  Sunday-school,  and  I  have  known  some  of  our  best 
cooks  to  pare  them  on  Saturday  evening.  The  gravy  is  quickly 
made  and  with  our  family,  is  almost  indispensable,  and  in  my  experi- 
ence, when  carefully  made,  I  find  it  relished  by  company.  I  suppose 
most  housewives  know  the  little  details  that  go  to  make  it  appetiz- 
ing ;  viz., — thicken  the  grease  from  the  meat  with  flour,  not  too  stiff, 
pour  in  a  cup  or  two  of  cold  water,  then  milk  enough  to  make  it  the 
required  thickness.  Stir  constantly  and  be  sure  not  to  salt  until  after 
the  milk  in  it  has  boiled ;  otherwise  the  milk  will  curd  more  or  less 
and  spoil  a  good  flavor. 

— Sister  J.  Z.  Gilbert,  Los  Angeles,  Col. 


Dinner 

Delicious  pot-roast         Browned  potatoes         Green  string  beans 
Pickled  red-beets  or  salad 
Cake  Pie  Cheese 

Coffee  or  Tea 

(The  dessert  and  drink  may  be  left  to  choice  of  family.) 

Delicious  Pot-Roast. — On  Saturday  procure  a  five-pound 
rump-pot  roast.  Have  the  bone  taken  out  and  ask  butcher  to  use 
several  skewers  to  hold  meat  together  while  cooking.  Place  in 
refrigerator  till  Sunday  morning.  While  getting  breakfast  ready, 
start  the  meat  cooking,  and,  if  a  tender  piece,  you  will  be  surprised 
to  learn  in  what  a  short  time  it  will  be  done  ready  to  set  on  the 
back  part  of  the  stove.   Take  a  good-sized  iron  kettle  and  place  on 


MENUS 


357 


the  stove  where  it  may  become  very  hot.  Into  this  hot  kettle  cut  in 
small  pieces  of  either  suet  or  bacon,  or,  use  fryings,  not  much  of 
either;  let  fry  a  little  while.  After  the  meat  has  had  a  sufficient 
amount  of  salt  rubbed  over  it  place  into  the  hot  grease  and  let  cook 
rapidly.  Watch  closely  lest  it  burn.  Every  few  minutes  turn  the 
meat  until  the  surface  is  brown.  At  this  point  begin  to  add  water, 
just  a  small  quantity  as  it  boils  away.  The  object  is  to  cook  the  meat 
with  as  little  water  as  possible.  The  juice  from  the  meat  will  make 
quite  a  little  moisture  when  first  put  on  to  cook.  You  will  find 
that  by  the  time  breakfast  is  over  and  your  morning  work  done 
your  meat  has  cooked  enough  to  set  on  the  back  part  of  stove 
where  there  will  be  no  danger  of  burning.  Remove  lid  that  steam 
may  escape ;  otherwise  you  will  have  a  very  rusty  iron  pot  to  look  at. 
This  will  furnish  enough  meat  for  about  eight  persons. 

Browned  Potatoes. — After  your  return  from  church  start 
meat  to  cooking.  Take  the  potatoes  you  have  pared — they  must  be 
of  an  even  size — and  place  them  in  the  kettle,  under  the  meat.  If 
water  is  needed  put  a  little  in  so  that  potatoes  do  not  burn.  Cover 
and  cook  briskly.  By  the  time  your  table  is  set  you  will  find  pota- 
toes a  golden  brown,  almost  ready  to  be  eaten.  When  done,  place 
meat  on  platter,  potatoes  in  a  dish,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  till  ready 
for  use.  Be  very  sure  to  watch  closely  lest  you  have  a  burned  din- 
ner. 

Brown  Gravy. — Take  two  or  more  tablepoonfuls  of  flour 
and  mix  with  milk  or  water,  pour  into  the  kettle  where  your  meat 
and  potatoes  have  been  cooked  and  stir  until  you  have  the  desired 
thickness.  If  not  salty  enough  season  to  your  taste.  Use  pepper  if 
you  like.   Remove  from  the  fire  and  serve  while  hot. 

Green  Beans. — Gather  a  half  peck  of  beans  on  Saturday, 
string,  wash  and  cook  either  Saturday  or  Sunday  morning.  Cook 
in  salt  water,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  dress  with 
flour  and  milk  dressing,  or  use  a  small  piece  of  bacon  instead  of  but- 
ter.  Either  way  is  very  good. 


358 


MENUS 


Salad. — Take  six  small  beets  and  cook  tender.  When  cold  cut 
in  small  pieces  by  slashing  across  the  beet.  Take  three  fair-  sized 
solid  ripe  tomatoes,  squeeze  seeds  out  and  cut  in  small,  chunky  pieces. 
To  this  add  a  few  stalks  of  lettuce  also  cut  in  small  pieces.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  light  sprinkle  of  sugar.  Mix  together  very 
lightly  or  tomatoes  will  be  mushy.  Use  pure  cider  vinegar.  Put  in 
a  cool  place  till  ready  for  use.  Do  not  use  vinegar  until  ready  for 
use.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing  if  preferred  to  vinegar.  Pickled 
beets  may  be  used  instead  of  the  salad,  if  preferred. 

—Sister  D.  L.  Miller,  Mt.  Morris,  III. 


Summer — Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Well-cooked  cereal  Omelet  with  cracker  crumbs 

Sliced  tomatoes 
Graham  Gems  Cereal  coffee 

Dinner 

Casseroled  beef         Brown  gravy         Sweet  potatoes  Corn 

Cabbage  salad 
Chocolate  pie  Peaches 
Cake  Coffee 
The  beef  should  be  prepared  in  the  morning  and  can  be  left 
slowly  baking  while  the  family  is  at  church. 

Omelet  (with  cracker  crumbs). — Take  4  eggs  well  beaten, 
1  cup  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  2y2  cups  milk  and  salt.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  skillet  and  bake  slowly  till  brown  on  both  sides. 

Casseroled  Beef. — Select  a  nice  roast,  from  the  rump  pre- 
ferred. Into  an  iron  pan  put  sufficient  suet  to  brown  the  roast  on 
both  sides.  When  the  suet  is  very  hot  place  in  the  meat  and  sear 
it  well  on  both  sides.  Then  take  out  the  meat  and  put  it  into  the 
casserole;  season  with  salt  and  dredge  with  flour.  (A  little  tomato 
sauce,  celery  seed  and  onion  is  a  good  seasoning.)  Pour  water  into 
the  pan  in  which  the  meat  was  browned  and  when  it  has  boiled  up 


MENUS 


359 


pour  the  brown  gravy  into  the  casserole.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven 
for  three  or  four  hours.  A  casserole  is  a  glazed  earthenware  pan 
with  a  tight  cover  of  the  same  material.  This  method  of  cooking 
does  not  call  for  a  high  degree  of  heat,  but  is  slow  cooking  at  a 
moderate  heat,  which  does  not  destroy  flavors  of  the  food  that  are 
usually  lost  in  the  escaping  steam  where  other  methods  are  em- 
ployed. Various  and  delicious  combinations  of  meats  and  vegetables 
consisting  of  almost  an  entire  meal  may  be  cooked  and  served  to- 
gether, thus  making  the  casserole  an  every  day  friend  to  the  busy 
housewife. 

Winter — Breakfast 

Oranges  Cooked  cereal 

Crisped  bacon  Rice  pancakes  Maple  syrup 

Coffee 

Dinner  * 

Noodle  soup 

Sliced  cold  beef  Mashed  potatoes  Creamed  lima  beans 

Apple  salad  Spiced  pears 

Cake  Canned  fruit 

Pie  Coffee 

The  meat  should  be  cooked  on  Saturday  and  broth  saved  for  the 
noodle  soup. 

Rice  Pancakes. — Two  cups  of  well-cooked  rice  to  which  a 
little  butter  has  been  added  while  rice  was  warm.  To  the  rice  when 
cool,  add  2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs  well-beaten,  2y2  cups  of  milk,  salt 
and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  if  sweet  milk  is  used. 

To  Cook  Rice. — Take  four  parts  of  water  to  one  part  rice. 
Cook  slowly  till  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  water.  Then  place  in 
double  boiler  and  cook  half  hour  longer.  The  rice  will  be  white  and 
dry.   Then  prepare  as  desired  for  table. 

—Sister  R.  E.  Arnold,  Elgin,  III. 


360 


MENUS 


Summer — Breakfast 

Muskmelon  Cream  of  wheat 

Graham  gems  Maple  syrup 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Cold  sliced  beef  heart  or  tongue 
Mashed  potatoes  Green  beans 

Gravy  from  stock  Fruit  salad 

Tapioca  pudding  Lemonade 

Supper 

Sandwiches  Iced  tea 

Cake  Fruit 
The  greater  part  of  the  dinner  can  and  should  be  prepared  on 
Saturday.  The  meat  stock  can  be  saved  for  the  gravy  on  Sunday. 
The  beans  can  be  cooked  on  Sunday  morning  while  preparing  break- 
fast. Thus  much  Sunday  work  can  be  avoided.  The  sandwiches 
for  supper  can  be  made  of  finely-chopped  dinner  meats  left  over  and 
covered  with  a  mayonnaise.  Garnish  meat  platter  with  lettuce  leaves 
or  parsley. 

Winter — Breakfast 

Oranges  or  canned  fruit 
Buttered  toast  with  poached  eggs 
Oatmeal  porridge  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Roast  beef  or  chicken  with  dressing 
Baked  beans  with  tomatoes 
Stewed  apples  Cake 
Coffee 

Supper 

Bread  and  butter  and  jelly 
Chocolate  cake  Apples 
Tea 


MENUS 


361 


The  heavier  part  of  the  winter  menu  can  also  be  prepared  on 
Saturday.  Have  your  beef  or  chicken  prepared  then.  While  finish- 
ing up  your  early  morning  work,  put  your  roast  in  the  oven,  so  that 
it  may  be  about  baked  till  time  to  attend  church  services.  Leave  in 
the  oven  to  keep  warm  till  your  return.  Remove  meat,  reheat  stove, 
place  your  dressing  in  roasting  pan  and  let  it  bake  while  preparing 
other  parts  of  the  dinner.  Bake  beans  on  Saturday  and  reheat  for 
Sunday  dinner.  Stewed  apples  may  also  be  reheated.  Save  your- 
self all  unnecessary  Sunday  labor.  Have  meals  on  time  and  regular 
if  possible.    Avoid  elaborate  display  and  over-feeding. 

— Sister  Flora  E.  Teague,  Lordsburg,  Cal. 

WEEK-DAY  MENUS 
Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Cream 
Breakfast  bacon  Fried  potatoes  Scrambled  eggs 

Bread  Butter 
Coffee 

Dinner^ 

Cured  pork  Mashed  potatoes  Scalloped  corn 

Bread  Butter  Plum  preserves  Pickles 

Apple  Pie 

Supper 

Scalloped  potatoes  Rice 

Bread          Butter  Jelly 

Canned  peaches  Cake 
Tea 

Oatmeal  should  be  covered  with  hot  water  the  night  before 

SO  that  it  can  easily  be  well  cooked.  Stir  frequently  and  salt  to 
taste. 

— Sister  Olive  O.  Ball,  Belleville,  Kans. 


362 


MENUS 


Breakfast 

Rolled  oat  mush         Beefsteak         Fried  potatoes 
Cornmeal  pancakes  Butter  Syrup 

Dinner 

Boiled  beef  and  dumplings    Potatoes  boiled  and  fried  whole  Peas 

Mustard  salad 
Butter  Preserves  Jelly 

Supper 

Vegetable  soup  Scalloped  potatoes 

Tomato  salad 
Pie  Fruit 

Breakfast 

Graham  mush  Fried  bread  (using  eggs) 

Fried  potatoes  Ham 
Butter  Jam 

Dinner 

Chicken  potpie  Mashed  potatoes  Green  beans 

Stewed  tomatoes  Pickled  beets 

Butter  Jelly 
Cookies  Pie 

Supper 

Mush  and  milk  Potato  cakes  Celery 

Cottage  pudding 

In  preparing  the  fried  potatoes,  chop  them  finely  and  fry  nicely. 
Then  pour  in  a  little  water  and  cover  closely  to  steam  a  little. 

For  supper  I  usually  prepare  the  things  left  over  from  dinner 
in  as  appetizing  way  as  I  can.  Then  add  a  new  dish  or  two  such  as 
shortcake,  rice  custard,  cake,  and  sometimes  soup. 


MENUS 


363 


Green  Mustard  Salad. — Gather  tender  green  mustard,  pick  it 
over,  wash,  cut  quite  fine  and  place  in  a  dish.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  lard  or  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  Then  beat  an  egg  and  pour  into 
2/z  cup  of  vinegar,  stir  and  pour  into  frying  pan  which  is  hot.  Stir 
until  the  mixture  thickens,  then  pour  over  mustard.  Season  with 
salt.    This  is  very  good  in  the  spring  when  the  appetite  is  poor. 

— Sister  Mary  M.  Michael,  Myrtle  Point,  Oregon. 


Breakfast 

Breakfast  food  Fried  eggs 

Buns  Butter  Jelly 

Postum  and  cream 

Dinner 

Stewed  chicken  Gravy  Mashed  potatoes 

Rice  (cooked  in  chicken  broth) 
Pickles  Pie 

Supper 

Fried  potatoes  Sliced  tomatoes 

Peaches  Cake 

Breakfast 

Corn  cakes  Butter       .  Honey 

Postum 

Dinner 

Boiled  beef  Noodles  Potatoes 

Pickles 
Tapioca  pudding 

Supper 

Rice  soup  Potato  cakes 

Butter  Crackers 
— Sister  Gay  McDannel  Nill,  Hollister,  Okla. 


MENUS 


Breakfast 

Fruit 

Poached  eggs  Toast 
Cocoa  Cinnamon  cake 

Dinner 

Boiled  fish  Mashed  potatoes 

Baked  rice  Cabbage  slaw  Olives 

Lemon  custard 
Coffee 

Supper 

Soup  Crackers 
Cold  meat  Potatoes  with  brown  butter 

Apple  sauce 
Junket 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Cream 

Frizzled  beef 
Hot  cakes  Honey 
Postum 

Dinner 

Roast  meat  Dressing 
Potatoes  roasted  with  meat 
Macaroni  Tomato  sauce 

Lettuce  Pickles 
Chocolate  custard 

Supper 

Rice  boiled  in  meat  dressing 
Spice  cantaloupe 
Fried  potatoes  Peas 
Apple  tapioca         Whipped  cream 
Coffee 


MENUS 


365 


Breakfast 

Fruit 
Cereal  Cream 

Omelet 
Cocoa  Buns 
Dinner 

Boiled  Chicken  Dressing 
Bread  rilling  Fried  sweet  potatoes  Mashed  potatoes 

Corn  pudding  Sliced  tomatoes  celery 

Sliced  peaches  Cream 
Sponge  cake 
Supper 

Hot  biscuits  Maple  syrup 

Boston  baked  beans  Ketchup  Potato  salad 

Strawberry  tart 
Tea 
Breakfast 
Cantaloupe 
Milk  Toast 

Frankfurters 
Stewed  potatoes 
Postum 
Dinner 
Beefsteak  Dressing 
Corn  on  ear  Potatoes  in  jackets  Lima  beans 

Sliced  tomatoes  Apple  sauce 

Watermelon 

Supper 

Soup  Croutons 
Succotash  Stewed  sweet  potatoes 

Potato  salad 
Doughnuts 
Tea 


366 


MENUS 


Omelet. — Beat  6  eggs,  add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  beat  a  little  more.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  cottolene  in  a  skillet ;  when  hot  pour  in  eggs,  fry  a 
delicate  brown  and  turn.  Serve  immediately.  Bacon  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  fried  brown  will  give  a  fine  flavor  and  can  be  used  in- 
stead of  butter  and  cottolene.  Small  bits  of  dried  beef  spread  over 
the  eggs  as  soon  as  poured  in  pan  will  make  a  driedbeef  omelet.  A 
ham  omelet  is  made  in  the  same  way  with  left-over  ham  chopped  fine 
and  spread  on  eggs.  If  you  have  stale  cheese  grate  it  and  put  on 
eggs  and  you  have  a  cheese  omelet. 

Christ  said  gather  up  the  fragments  that  nothing  be  lost.  We  as 
Christian  sisters  should  make  use  of  the  fragments  as  we  all  have 
some  at  times.  By  using  common  sense  and  a  little  judgment  we 
will  often  be  able  to  get  a  good  meal  from  fragments.  Save  all  the 
bits  of  vegetables  from  today's  dinner  and  use  them  for  tomorrow's 
vegetable  soup.  If  you  made  too  much  biscuit  dough,  cover  and  put 
in  cellar,  then  drop  little  bits  in  .your  soup  tomorrow  and  see  how 
good  it  is.  Keep  the  bits  of  stewed  crackers,  mashed  potatoes,  rice, 
macaroni  and  use  them  for  your  batter  cakes  next  morning. 

— Sister  Emma  Andes  Zoblcr,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

Breakfast 

Fried  ham  Poached  eggs  Fruit 

Home-made  bread  Butter 
Coffee 
Dinner 

Boiled  beef  Potatoes  (cooked  in  beef  broth) 

Cabbage  salad 
Pie  Fruit 

Supper 

Rice  soup  (made  of  broth  left  over  from  dinner) 
Mixed  pickles  Fruit 
If  the  broth  is  not  rich  enough  for  soup  add  butter  to  make  it  as 
rich  as  desired. 


MENUS 


367 


Breakfast 

Fried  mush  Fish  Fruit 

Home-made  bread  Butter 
Cocoa 
Dinner 

Sausage  Beans  Fried  potatoes 

Fruit  Pie 
Supper 

Roast  potatoes  Lettuce  salad 

Fruit 

If  green  beans  are  wanted  for  dinner,  put  the  kettle  on  the  fire, 
let  it  get  hot  and  then  put  in  1  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter 
mixed  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Let  brown  a  little,  add  cold 
water,  a  pint  or  more,  the  prepared  beans  and  salt  according  to 
amount  of  beans.  Boil  slowly  for  one  and  a  half  or  two  hours. 
Never  boil  beans  fast  as  they  will  not  have  as  good  flavor  as  when 
boiled  slowly.    Before  serving  add  1  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

If  soup  or  lima  beans  are  wanted,  parboil  and  drain ;  then  cook  till 
tender  and  dress  with  butter  and  cream. 

You  will  notice  I  have  fruit  with  each  meal.  I  consider  it  so  im- 
portant to  the  health  of  most  people  that  it  should  not  be  omitted. 
People  who  must  buy  everything  they  eat  often  consider  fruit  too 
expensive,  but  I  would  do  without  meat  before  I  would  do  without 
fruit.  It  does  not  need  to  be  the  most  expensive  kind;  apples  are 
very  good — even  dried  apples  when  they  cannot  be  had  otherwise. 

— Sister  J.  B.  Miller,  Curry ville,  Pa. 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal  with  cream  and  sugar 
Bacon  Cornbread  Honey  or  syrup 

Dinner 

Baked  beans  Hot  cabbage  slaw 

Plain  boiled  potatoes  Pork  (baked  with  beans) 

Pie 


368 


MENUS 


Supper 

Fresh  fried  potatoes  Shirred  eggs 

Fruit  or  tapioca  cream  Cookies 

Hot  Slaw. — Cook  the  cabbage  in  salt  water.  When  tender 
drain  and  add  dressing  made  of  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  cream  and  vinegar  to 
suit  the  taste.  Do  not  add  dressing  till  nearly  time  to  serve  and 
merely  let  come  to  a  boiling  heat. 

Shirred  Eggs. — Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
break  in  the  eggs  and  to  each  egg  add  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
cream,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  the  oven  or  cover  closely  and 
let  cook  slowly  on  top  of  stove. 

— Sister  Emma  Newcomer,  Lanark,  III. 


A  MENU  FOR  THE  "  SIMPLE  LIFE." 
Sunday — Breakfast 

Poached  eggs  on  toast  Cream  of  wheat 

Grain-o  or  postum 
Bread  and  butter 

Dinner 

Mashed  potatoes  Sausage 
Cold  slaw- 
Bread  Butter  Lemon  butter 
Strawberries  Cake 

Supper 

Cold  cream  of  wheat 
Bread  Butter  Preserves 

Bananas 

Monday — Breakfast 

Hominy  Oatflake 
Bread  Butter 
Grain-o 


MENUS 


Dinner 

Potatoes  boiled  and  fried  whole  Stewed  onions 

Lettuce 

Graham  gems  Butter  Syrup 

Apple  sauce  Cookies 
Supper 

Boiled  rice  Prunes  Shredded  wheat  biscuit 

Bread  Butter  Jam 

Chocolate 

Tuesday — Breakfast 

Fried  mush  Wheat  flake 

Bread  Butter  Syrup 

Grain-o 

Dinner 

Soup  beans  Stewed  tomatoes 

Radishes  Bread  Butter  Apple  butter 

Raspberries  Graham  wafers 

Supper 

Boiled  macaroni  Cold  wheat  flake 

Bread  Butter  Jelly 

Bananas  Peppermint  tea 

Wednesday — Breakfast 

Fried  bread  Cream  of  wheat 

Syrup  Bread  Butter 

Grain-o 
Dinner 

Ouirled  potatoes  Dandelion  Frizzled  dried  beef 

Bread  Butter  Apple  butter 

Cranberries  Molasses  cake 

Supper 

Potato  cakes  Cold  cream  of  wheat 

Milk  Cheese  Crackers 

Bread  Butter  Preserves 


MENUS 


Thursday — Breakfast 

Scrapple  Grape-nuts 
Bread  Butter  Syrup 

Grain-o 

Dinner 

Potatoes  baked  in  their  skins  Green  beans 

Corn  bread  Butter  Watermelon  pickle 

Cherries  Cinnamon  rolls 

Supper 

Fried  eggplant  Pumpkin  sauce 

Bread  Butter  Jelly 

Bananas  Sage  tea  Crackers 

Friday — B  reakf ast 

Omelet  Graham  mush 

Bread  Butter  Syrup 

Grain-o 

Dinner 

Fish  Quirled  potatoes  Peas 

Bread  Butter  Apple  butter 

Rhubarb  sauce  Little  sponge  cakes 

Supper 

Boiled  rice  Celery  Toasted  corn  flakes 

Bread  Butter  Jelly 

Chocolate 

Saturday — Breakfast 

Hominy  Wheat  flake 

Bread  Butter 
Grain-o 

Dinner 

Noodles  Beet  sauce 

Bread  Butter  Apple  butter  Chow  chow 

Peaches  Oatmeal  crackers 


MENUS 


371 


Supper 

Stewed  oysters  Cold  wheat  flake 

Bread  Butter  Jelly 

Bananas  Milk 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Cook  the  potatoes  till  thoroughly  done, 
drain,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  the  oven  uncovered  till 
the  moisture  is  all  evaporated.  Squeeze  them  through  a  vegetable 
press  into  a  warm  vessel,  add  sufficient  milk  which  has  been  heated 
in  a  tin  cup,  and  with  a  four-tined  fork  beat  vigorously  until  the 
mass  grows  white  and  light.  Turn  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and 
serve  immediately. 

Tomato  Salad. — Cook  the  tomatoes  to  pieces,  and  press 
through  a  wire  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds.  To  the  liquid 
add,  to  taste,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  ground  cloves.  When 
reheated  to  the  boiling  point,  add  one  envelope  of  Plymouth  Rock 
gelatine,  which  has  previously  been  dissolved  according  to  direc- 
tions. Pour  into  cups  to  congeal.  Turn  into  pretty  dessert  dishes 
and  serve  with  any  good  salad  dressing. 

Patronize  the  green  grocery  and  the  milkman  rather  than  the 
meat  shop.  Raisins  are  nourishing  and  palatable.  Keep  them  on 
the  table  all  the  time.  Eat  two  or  three  dates  at  supper.  Two  vege- 
tables are  usually  sufficient  for  dinner.  Do  not  worry  about  pie, 
but  serve  the  fruit  in  dessert  dishes.  Be  sure  and  have  some  kind 
of  fruit  for  dinner  every  day,  especially  apples,  if  they  are  plentiful. 
Fruit  is  not  so  wholesome  for  supper.  Be  sparing  of  pickles.  Eat 
a  few  nuts  at  the  end  of  dinner,  and  a  peppermint  lozenge.  Avoid 
concoctions  that  involve  much  time,  trouble,  and  expense.  You  may 
save  broiling  yourself  and  burning  extra  fuel  on  a  hot  day  by  buying 
a  few  things  at  the  bakery.  Waste  nothing.  Some  delectable  sup- 
per dishes  can  be  contrived  from  "  left  overs."  Extravagance  is  the 
sin  of  the  poor  as  well  as  the  rich.  At  table  be  calm  and  courteous, 
eat  slowly,  chew  thoroughly,  and  impart  to  the  meal  the  dignity  that 
you  would  to  any  other  social  function,  and  the  family  board  will  be 
the  scene  and  source  of  the  simple  joys  of  normal  man. 

— Sister  Adaline  H.  Beery. 


MENUS 


MENUS  FOR  A  WEEK. 
Sunday — Breakfast 

Toast  Boiled  eggs  Stewed  prunes 

Coffee  Cream 

Dinner 

Roast  chicken  Sweet  potatoes 

Potato  salad  Currant  jelly 

Chocolate  pudding  Pie 
Coffee 
Supper 

Thin-sliced  ham  Stewed  fruit 

Cake  Tea 

Monday — Breakfast 

Shirred  eggs  Bacon 
Biscuit  Coffee 
Dinner 

Noodle  soup  (from  left-over  chicken) 
Boiled  beef  Macaroni  Baked  potatoes 

Apple  tart 
Supper 

Sliced  cold  beef         Cottage  cheese 
Corn  bread 
Tea 

Tuesday — Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Stewed  dried  peaches         Graham  gems 

Coffee 
Dinner 
Vegetable  soup 
Baked  beans  Cold  slaw 

Tapioca  pudding 

Supper 

Creamed  dried  beef  Tomatoes 
Cinnamon  rolls  Tea 


MENUS 


373 


Wednesday — Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Baked  eggs 

Biscuits  Coffee 

Dinner 

Fried  steak         Stewed  cabbage         Baked  potatoes 
Canned  fruit  Cookies 

Supper 

Beef  and  potatoes  hashed 
Strawberry  shortcake  Cream 

Thursday — Breakfast 

Hot  corn  mush  Omelet 
Fruit  Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled  ham  Dandelion  greens  Mashed  potatoes 

Fruit  pie  Coffee 

Supper 

Boiled  rice  with  raisins  Cream 
Brown  bread  Fruit 

Friday — Breakfast 

Oatmeal         Cream  Omelet 
Biscuits  Coffee 

Dinner 

Vegetable  soup 
Canned  peas  Escalloped  potatoes 

Cold  slaw 
Jelly  Tarts 

Supper 

Cottage  cheese  Stewed  fruit 

Rolls  Tea 


374 


MENUS 


Saturday — Breakfast 

Fried  mush  Scrambled  eggs 

Fruit  Coffee 

Dinner 

Stewed  chicken  Dumplings  and  gravy  Mashed  potatoes 

Rice  Fruit  salad  Cake 

Supper 

Salmon  salad  Lettuce  sandwiches 

Cocoa  Cake 
Picnic  Dinner 
Fried  chicken  Baked  beans  Potato  chips 

Lettuce  sandwiches 
Potato  salad  Pickled  eggs 

Burnt  sugar  cake 
— Sister  Minerva  Metzger,  Cerro  Gordo,  III. 


[Meals  of  office  girls  who  board  themselves.  Lunch  on  week 
days  was  taken  at  the  office.] 

Sunday — Breakfast 

Stewed  prunes  Post  toasties 

Poached  eggs  on  toast 

Dinner 

Veal  chops  Mashed  potatoes  Gravy 

Stewed  squash  Cold  slaw 

Snow  pudding  Fig  bars 

Monday — Breakfast 

Cream  of  wheat  Stewed  prunes 

Potato  cakes  Gravy 

Dinner 

Plain  boiled  potatoes  Stewed  tomatoes  Fried  noodles 

Peach  tapioca 


MENUS  375 

Tuesday — Breakfast 

Graham  mush  Sliced  bananas 

Pancakes  Cocoa 
Dinner 

Noodle  soup  Hot  slaw  Fried  potatoes 

Pumpkin  pie 

Wednesday — B  reakf  ast 

Rolled  oats  Cranberry  sauce 

Chipped  beef  gravy  Fried  potatoes 

Dinner 

Tomato  soup  Potatoes  boiled  in  jackets 

Beet  salad  Tapioca  pudding 

Thursday — Breakfast 

Post  toasties  Apple  sauce 

Omelet  Cocoa 
Dinner 

Green  beans  Browned  sweet  potatoes 

Celery 

Grape  gelatine  with  whipped  cream  Cake 
Friday — B  reakf  ast 

Post  toasties  with  bananas  sliced  in  same  dish 
Pancakes  Fried  potatoes 

Dinner 

Boiled  cabbage  and  potatoes  Macaroni  and  tomatoes 

Stewed  rhubarb. 
Saturday — Breakfast 
Graham  gems  Syrup  Potatoes  boiled  in  jackets 

Stewed  apples  Cocoa 
Dinner 

Fried  sweet  potatoes  Stewed  celery 

Rice  pudding 

— Sisters  Maude  Newcomer  and  Blanche  Lents,  Elgin,  III. 


MENUS 


[Boarding  Club  Bethany  Bible  School,  Chicago.] 

Sunday — Breakfast 

Rice  and  raisins 
Dry  toast 
Fried  potatoes  Beet  pickles 

Bananas 

Dinner 

Roast  beef  with  brown  gravy 
Mashed  potatoes  Peas 
Apricots  Cake 

Monday — Breakfast 

Cream  of  wheat 
Baked  potatoes  Gravy 
Pickles 
Oranges 

Dinner 

Creamed  potatoes  Stewed  turnips 

Corn  bread  Onion  salad 

Blueberry  pie 

Tuesday — Breakfast 

Cornflakes 
Creamed  dried  beef  Hominy  grits 

Baked  apples 

Dinner 

Tomato  soup 
Kidney  beans  Scalloped  potatoes 

Creamed  cold  slaw 
Apple  butter 


MENUS 

Wednesday — Breakfast 

Oatmeal 
Fried  mush  Syrup 
Stewed  prunes 

Dinner 

Potpie  Baked  dumplings 

Hot  beet  salad 
Tapioca  custard 

Th  ur  sday — B  r  eakf  as  t 

Browned  rice 
French  toast  Syrup 
Cottage  cheese  Apple  butter 

Dinner 

Noodles  Whole  fried  potatoes 

Sliced  onions 
Brown  Betty 

Friday — B  reakf as  t 

Rice  patties  Tomato  sauce 

Baked  potatoes 
Stewed  raisins 

Dinner 

Halibut  steak  Mashed  potatoes 

Stewed  tomatoes 
Lemon  pie 

Saturday — Breakfast 

Creamed  toast  Baked  potatoes 

Pickles 
Grapes 


378 


MENUS 


Dinner 

Potato  soup 
Corn  fritters  Syrup 
Pickled  celery 
Apple  dumplings 
Browned  Rice  (Cereal). — Take  1  cup  of  rice,  2  cups  of  cold 
water  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Brown  the  dry  rice  in  oven  until 
golden  yellow ;  then  put  rice,  water  and  salt  into  a  tightly-covered 
granite  pan  or  cooking  crock  and  set  in  oven  until  soft  and  dry, — 
about  y2  hour.    Do  not  stir. 

— Sister  Sarah  Rothrock,  McPherson,  Kans. 

THANKSGIVING  AND  CHRISTMAS  MENUS. 

Roast  turkey  and  dressing 
Cranberry  sauce  (or  baked  apples) 
Escalloped  corn 
Mashed  potatoes  and  gravy 
Cabbage  salad  Mixed  pickles 

Brown  and  white  bread 
Celery 
Mince  pie 

Sliced  oranges  and  bananas  Devil's  food  cake. 

Nuts 

The  dressing  for  the  turkey  is  greatly  improved  if  the  bread  is 
first  browned.  Have  ready,  in  a  large  baking  pan  or  a  deep  dinner 
kettle,  some  hot  drippings  of  lard  and  butter.  Put  in  the  diced 
bread  and  stir  until  all  is  nicely  browned.  Add  to  this  sufficient 
broth  or  sufficient  rich  milk  to  make  quite  soft.  Add  a  beaten  egg 
if  you  wish  a  rich  dressing.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  bit  of 
sweet  marjoram. 

Baked  Apples. — Fill  a  baking  dish  with  pared  and  halved 
apples.  Bake  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  toothpick.  Have 
ready  a  syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water  and 
a  small  piece  of  butter.  Pour  this  over  the  half  baked  apples  and 
bake  until  done. 


MENUS 


379 


Escalloped  Corn. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  add  a  layer  of 
canned  corn.  Then  use  more  cracker  crumbs  and  so  on  until  the 
ingredients  are  used.  Pour  over  all  sufficient  hot  milk  to  cover  well. 
Bake  until  it  browns  on  the  top.  Dried  corn  can  be  used  in  place  of 
the  canned.  It  should  be  stewed  and  seasoned  the  same  as  if  pre- 
pared for  the  table  in  that  form. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Chop  together  one-half  head  of  cabbage 
and  twelve  stalks  of  celery.  Salt  to  suit  taste.  Have  ready  a  dress- 
ing made  of  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  vinegar. 
Put  this  over  the  fire  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point.  It  must  be 
constantly  stirred  or  it  will  curdle.  When  cold  add  to  the  chopped" 
cabbage  and  stir  thoroughly. 

— Sister  Oma  Karn,  Covington,  Ohio. 


The  dining  room  and  table  can  be  decorated  as  the  hostess  sees 
best.   I  like  some  holly  and  ferns. 

Roast  duck  or  turkey  {we  will  have  duck) 
Dressing  and  gravy 
Cranberry  sauce 
Mashed  potatoes  Sweet  potatoes 

Dried  or  canned  corn  and  celery 
Scalloped  oysters  Apple  salad 

Pickles  Coffee 
Mince  pie  Pumpkin  pie 

Nut  cake  Peaches  and  cream 

A  dish  of  homemade  candies 

Nut  Cake. — Take  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  butter, 
creamed  together,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  sifted  flour,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  and 
added  after  rest  are  mixed  and  lastly  stir  in  carefully  1  cup  of  any 
preferred  nut  kernels  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


380 


MENUS 


Apple  Salad. — Take  4  medium-sized  apples,  chopped  not  too 
fine,  ^2  the  amount  of  chopped  celery,  and  1  cup  of  English  walnut 
kernels  broken  in  pieces.  Mix  all  this  together  and  make  a  dressing 
of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  flour,  salt  and  mustard.  Mix  in  this  1  well-beaten  egg. 
Turn  on  all  1  cup  of  boiling  milk,  stir  briskly  and  add  Yz  cup  of 
vinegar,  not  too  sour.  Pour  dressing  over  other  ingredients  and 
serve. 

Nearly  all  remaining  dishes  in  menu  are  found  in  the  cook  book. 

-Sister  I.  Bruce  Book,  North  Manchester,  hid. 


Turkey  with  dressing  Mashed  potatoes 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  Lima  beans  with  white  cream  sauce 

Apple  and  banana  salad 
Mince  pie  Coffee 
Oranges  Nuts 
Apple  and  Banana  Salad. — Slice  three  apples  and  two  ba- 
nanas rather  fine.   Have  a  dressing  made  the  day  before  of  34  cup 
of  vinegar  and  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  mustard 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter.    Place  this  over  the  fire  and  pour  in  1 
well-beaten  egg.    Add  cream  to  thin  when  put  in  the  fruit.  Serve 
individually  on  lettuce  leaf. — Sister  Harry  Fahrney,  Elgin,  III 


Before  serving  food  bathe  the  patient's  hands  and  face  with  a 
cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Arrange  the  food  as  daintily  as  pos- 
sible,' having  the  dishes,  napkins  and  tray  perfectly  clean.  Serve  at 
one  time  only  as  much  food  as  comes  well  within  the  limit  of  amount 
allowed.  Often  the  sight  of  a  large  amount  of  food  will  cause 
nausea  and  make  it  impossible  for  any  to  be  taken.  Do  not  leave 
food  standing  by  patient  in  order  to  arouse  an  appetite ;  that  end  is 
seldom  accomplished  in  that  way.  Remove  at  once  when  not  wanted 
and  serve  again,  in  fresh  dishes,  if  necessary.  Dishes  should  be 
heated  if  the  food  is  to  be  served  hot  and  kept  cold  if  it  is  to  be 
served  cold. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding  for  the  Convalescent. — Take  a  small 
teacupful  of  tapioca,  soak  it  in  water  over  night.  Then  take  3  ripe 
cooking  apples,  pare,  cut  in  halves,  and  put  in  a  pudding  dish  with  a 
little  butter  and  sugar,  then  pour  over  them  the  tapioca  and  bake 
34  hour.  Serve  with  sugar  and  milk. — Sister  C.  Harlcy,  Ephrata, 
Pa. 

Beef. — Get  a  small  round  steak  and  lay  it  on  a  plate.  Take 
a  table  knife  and  scrape  the  tender  meat  out  of  it.  Place  it  in  a 
saucer  and  form  it  into  a  cake.  Broil  it  in  a  hot  buttered  pan  quick- 
ly,, on  both  sides,  and  serve  on  a  hot  plate.  The  fibers  which  you 
cannot  scrape,  put  in  a  stew  dish  with  cold  water  and  boil  well.  It 
will  make  a  nice  cup  of  broth  for  the  sick. — Sister  Fannie  E.  Light, 
Pasadena,  Cal. 

Rennet  Custard. — Take  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  made  lukewarm, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rennet  liquid,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Mix 
and  let  set  1  hour  to  thicken.  Eat  with  sugar  and  milk. — Sister 
Fannie  E.  Light,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

381 


382 


FOR    THE  SICK 


Prepared  Beef  (For  Weak  Stomach). — Take  good  beefsteak, 
cut  about  again  as  thick  as  for  an  ordinary  fry,  broil  both  sides 
lightly,  then  cut  in  small  bits  and  press  the  juice  out  with  a  good 
lemon  squeezer.  The  fluid  will  look  like  blood  and  is  very  nutritious. 
Cool,  add  a  little  salt,  and  it  will  be  quite  palatable.  Given  in  small 
portions  at  a  time,  this  will  remain  on  the  stomach  when  all  other 
foods  fail. — Sister  Amanda  Witrnore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Broth. — Take  a  whole  chicken,  clean,  and  pick  the  meat  off" 
the  bones  in  small  pieces.  Put  it  in  a  glass  jar  without  water,  cover 
tight,  put  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  boil  for  1  day.  Take  the 
broth  for  the  sick,  and  the  meat  can  be  used  for  chicken  salad  for 
the  other  members  of  the  family. — Sister  Fannie  E.  Light,  Pasadena, 
Cal 

Broth  for  the  Sick  (Chicken,  beef  or  squirrel). — Put  the 
meat  into  a  glass  jar,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste  and  seal  air- 
tight. Put  the  jar  into  a  vessel  of  cold  water,  put  on  the  stove  and  let 
boil  till  thoroughly  tender,  drain  the  broth  from  the  meat  and  give  to 
the  sick.  No  water  is  added  to  the  meat  in  the  can. — Sister  L.  V. 
Forehand,  Gerster,  Mo. 

Eggnog. — To  Yz  glass  of  milk  add  the  yolk  of  1  fresh  egg; 
beat  well  together,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  and  then  stir  through 
the  mixture  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  The  result 
will  be  a  pleasant  and  nourishing  food  for  invalids.  To  add  to  its 
strengthening  qualities,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  wine  or  brandy  may  be 
added  if  desired. — Sister  Hannah  White,  Altoona,  Pa. 

Eggnog. — Take  1  egg,  put  it  in  a  glass,  beat  well,  then  fill 
the  glass  with  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  good  wine  and  sugar 
to  taste,  stir  well  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Give  from  1  to  2  table- 
spoonfuls  at  one  time. — Sister  Susan  Coblentz,  Peru,  Ind. 

Boiled  White  of  Egg. — When  the  yolk  of  egg  disagrees  with 
the  patient,  the  white  may  be  prepared,  viz. :  Beat  the  white  of  an 
egg  until  stiff  and  boil  for  15  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water.  Some 
prefer  flavoring  and  a  little  sugar  rather  than  salt. — Sister  Ida  Wag- 
ner Hoit,  Maywood,  III. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


383 


Milk  and  Eggs. — Bring  a  bowl  of  milk  to  a  scalding  heat 
(not  boil).  Break  an  egg  into  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the  scalding  milk, 
stir  with  a  fork,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Break  in  a  few  crackers  or  a 
slice  of  well  toasted  bread.  This  is  nourishing  and  quite  palatable. 
— Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Poached  Eggs  in  Shell. — Place  the  eggs  in  a  pan  or  kettle, 
pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  set  on  back  of  the  stove  8  or  10 
minutes,  according  to  the  amount  and  size.  Do  not  let  them 
boil.  When  just  right  they  will  drop  out  (when  broken)  like  a  lump 
of  jelly. — Sister  Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Soft  Boiled  Egg. — The  only  way  to  prepare  an  egg  that  the 
sick  will  not  tire  of  it.  Place  an  egg  in  a  tin  cup,  cover  over  with 
boiling  water,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  from  5  to  10  minutes ;  do 
not  let  it  boil.  When  the  egg  is  just  right,  it  will  drop  from  the 
shell  when  broken.  Have  a  hot  dessert  dish  to  serve  it  in. — Sister 
Lizzie  McNelly,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Fruit  Pudding. — Take  the  juice  of  any  kind  of  berries,  heat 
on  the  stove.  Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
juice  and  boil  until  it  thickens.  Sweeten  to  taste,  let  cool,  and  eat 
with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Fannie  E.  Light,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Gruel. — Gruel  can  be  made  with  oatmeal,  corn  meal,  or 
farina.  These  should  be  mixed  first  with  cold  water,  then  add  hot 
water.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  meal  is  enough  to  make  1  pint  when 
boiled. — Sister  Fannie  E.  Light,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Corn  Meal  Gruel. — Take  ]/2  cup  of  corn  meal  moistened  with 
cold  water ;  then  stir  into  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  the  boil- 
ing continue  for  30  minutes  or  1  hour ;  season  with  salt  and  butter. 
Cinnamon  or  nutmeg  may  be  added  if  liked. — Sister  Ida  Wagner 
Hoff,  Maywood,  III. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. — Mix  T/2  cup  of  Indian  meal  with  a  very 
little  water  until  perfectly  smooth.  Add  the  meal  to  3  cups  of  boil- 
ing water,  salted,  stirring  it  in  slowly,  let  it  boil  J/2  hour.  This  can 
be  retained  in  the  stomach  when  almost  everything  else  is  rejected. 
— Sister  Elizabeth  Rainer,  Beatrice,  Nebr. 


384 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Irish  Moss. — Buy  10  cents'  worth  of  Irish  sea  moss  in  the 
drug  store,  then  take  a  piece  the  size  of  a  dollar  and  wash  it  in  cold 
water,  and  put  it  in  y2  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  boil  it  till  it  thickens 
like  cream.  Stir  all  the  time.  Then  strain,  and  season  with  a  little 
sugar.  Serve  while  warm.  As  soon  as  it  cools  it  gets  stiff,  but  it 
can  also  be  eaten  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. — Sister  Fannie  E. 
Light,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

Panada. — Break  in  a  bowl  a  piece  of  toast  bread,  add  a  little 
salt,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  the  bread.  Cover  it  up  a  few  min- 
utes, then  add  4  or  5  spoonfuls  of  cream. — Sister  A.  N.  Renseyer, 
Halstead,  Kans. 

Panada. — Take  the  white  part  of  the  breast  and  wings,  freed 
from  skin,  of  either  roasted  or  boiled  chicken,  or  the  under  side  of 
cold  sirloin  or  roasted  beef,  or  cold  roasted  leg  of  mutton,  and 
pound  in  a  mortar  with  an  equal  quantity  of  stale  bread.  Add 
either  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  has  been  boiled,  or  beef  tea, 
until  the  whole  forms  a  fluid  paste,  and  then  boil  for  10  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  time. — Sister  Gertrude  E.  Rowland,  Reid,  Md. 

Another  Mode  of  Panada. — Take  of  pearl  barley  or  rice  2 
ounces,  wash  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  V2  pound  of  veal  or  mutton 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  J/2  pint  of  water.  Simmer  gently  for  2 
hours,  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add 
a  little  cream  to  make  it  as  thin  as  desired,  with  seasoning  to  taste, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold. — Sister  Gertrude  E.  Rowland,  Reid,  Md. 

Potato  Soup. — Pare  a-  few  good-sized  potatoes,  cut  in 
squares,  boil  them  in  1^  pints  of  water  until  tender,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Before  removing 
from  the  fire,  add  1  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Pour  them  into  a  dish  into  which  have  been  broken  some  bread 
crumbs,  serve  hot. — Sister  Lizzie  McNelly,  Cincinnati,  Ohio: 

Cracker  Soup. — Place  a  dozen  crackers  in  a  bowl,  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  them,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Pour  over  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  the  crackers ;  cover  and  let  steam  a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot. — 
Sister  Lizzie  McNelly,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


385 


Sour  Cream  Soup. — Break  a  slice  of  stale  bread  toast  or 
some  tea  crackers  into  a  bowl.  Add  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  rich 
sour  cream  and  a  sprinkling  of  salt.  Fill  up  with  boiling  water,  give 
it  a  stir  and  cover  closely,  and  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes. — Sister 
Nannie  H.  Strayer,  Johnstown,  Pa. 

Tomato  Soup. — Pare  1  tomato  the  size  of  a  small  teacup, 
cut  and  boil  in  a  teacupful  of  water  until  very  tender.  While  boiling 
add  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  1  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
let  come  to  a  boil  only,  and  serve  with  broken  crackers. — Sister 
Lizzie  McNelly,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

For  a  Weak  Stomach. — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  thoroughly, 
gradually  pour  on  it  a  cup  of  hot  tea,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  sweet- 
en to  taste.  This  will  often  ease  the  stomach  and  be  retained  when 
nothing  else  will. — Sister  Mary  E.  W .  Martin,  Lamed,  Kans. — 
Break  a  fresh  egg  in  scalded — not  boiled — milk  and  beat  with  a  fork. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Sister  Mary  B.  Peck,  Manvel,  Texas. 

Corn  Meal  Tea. — Parch  common  corn  until  browned  through, 
grind;  pour  on  boiling  water.  Excellent  for  nausea,  vomiting,  and 
diarrhoea. — Sister  Ida  Wagner  Hoff,  Maywood,  III. 

Toast. — Take  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  or  grape  jelly,  beat 
up  the  white  of  1  egg  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  a  little  sugar, 
and  a  slice  of  toast  bread. — Sister  Fannie  E.  Light,  J^asadena,  Cal. 

Egg  Toast. — Brown  a  slice  of  bread,  dip  in  hot  water  slight- 
ly salted,  butter  it  and  lay  on  top  of  the  toast  an  egg  that  has  been 
broken  into  hot  water  and  cooked  until  the  white  is  hardened.  Sea- 
son egg  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt. — Sister  Chas.  Haw- 
baker,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Good,  Rich  Toast. — Toast  a  piece  of  bread  to  a  light  brown, 
butter  it  well  on  both  sides  while  it  is  still  hot,  and  break  it  into 
a  bowl.  Make  a  good  tea,  sweetened  and  with  good  cream  in  it, 
pour  over  the  toast,  and  serve  while  hot.  For  the  tea  I  prefer  a  mix- 
ture of  Ceylon,  Black,  and  Imperial. — Sister  Lizzie  McNelly,  Cin- 
cinnati, Ohio. 


386 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Toast  Water  or  Crust  Coffee. — Toast  a  slice  of  bread  a  nice 
brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  burn  it.  Put  it  into  a  bowl 'and  pour 
over  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Cover  bowl  and  let  stand ; 
then  add  a  piece  of  ice,  and  when  cool  give  to  the  patient  by  tea- 
spoonful. — Sister  Chas.  Hazvbaker,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — To  1  gallon  of  fruit  add  l/2  gallon  of 
water.  Mash  fruit  well  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  to  sour ;  stir  the 
fruit  once  or  twice  daily.  Let  fruit  set  about  4  days,  then  strain 
juice  off  the  fruit,  put  in  a  kettle  and  cook.  Skim  off  carefully  what 
comes  to  the  top.  Then  add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  it,  let  it  boil  for  ^4 
hour,  and  put  in  bottles.  A  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  the  juice  in  a 
glass  of  ice  water  is  a  cooling  drink. — Sister  A.  N.  Ramsey er,  Hal- 
stead,  Kans. 

Barley  Water  for  Fever. — Take  J/2  cup  of  pearl  barley  and 
wash  well.  Take  ]/2  gallon  of  cold  water,  put  it  over  the  barley,  set 
it  on  the  stove  and  let  cook  for  1  hour,  then  strain  the  liquid  of  the 
barley  and  put  it  to  cool.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  sugar 
to  taste  in  the  barley  water,  and  add  a  piece  of  ice.  This  is  cooling 
and  nourishing. — Sister  A.  N.  Ramsey  er,  Halstead,  Kans. 

LIQUID  DIET. 

Egg  Albumin  (plain). — Put  the  white  of  one  egg  in  a 
tumbler,  with  half  a  glass  of  cold  water  and  a  little  crushed  ice. 
Cover  tumbler  and  shake  well,  or  use  an  egg  beater  or  milk  shaker, 
until  the  egg  and  water  are  fully  blended. 

Albuminized  Milk. — This  is  made  the  same  way  as  the  above, 
using  milk  instead  of  water,  and  shaking  or  beating  until  egg  and 
milk  are  blended.  Salt,  sugar  or  flavor  may  be  added.  Serve  very 
cold. 

Albuminized  Fruit  Juice. — Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  light; 
then  add  equal  parts  cold  water,  and  any  preferred  fruit  juice, — 
orange,  grape,  lemon  or  pineapple,  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste,  and 
blend  well  together.  Should  the  froth  disagree  with  the  patient, 
strain  through  a  fine  strainer.   Serve  very  cold. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


387 


Beef  Broth. — Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  beef  into  small  pieces 
and  cover  with  three  pints  cold  water.  Let  simmer  for  three  hours. 
Strain,  cool  and  remove  all  fat.  Salt  to  taste.  Veal  broth  can  be 
made  the  same  way. 

Beef  Juice. — See  page  382. 

Chicken  Broth.— See  page  382. 

Chicken  Brcth. — Clean  and  cut  into  small  pieces  the  fowl 
(a  nice,  fat  hen  about  one  year  old  is  best).  Cover  it  with  about 
two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  rice.  Simmer  gently  for  three  hours,  after  it  comes  to 
the  boiling  point.    Strain,  cool,  and  remove  all  fat. 

Egg  Nog.— Sister  Hannah  White's,  page  382. 

Egg  Nog. — Sister  Susan  Coblentz's,  page  382. 

Oatmeal  Gruel. — Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal  and 
three  cups  of  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  set  back  on 
stove  and  let  it  simmer  for  one  hour.  Strain  and  add  salt  and  sugar 
to  taste,  or  the  sugar  can  be  omitted.  Should  be  made  about  half 
rich  milk  or  cream.    Serve  either  warm  or  cold. 

Toast  Jelly. — Take  three  slices  of  well-browned  toast  and 
put  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Let  simmer  for 
two  hours.  Then  strain  through  a  fine  strainer,  add  sugar  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.    Put  in  a  cool  place  until  it  has  set. 

Lemonade. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  (strained), 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  crushed  ice. 
Stir  well,  and  fill  up  glass  with  cold  water. 

Milk. — Milk,  either  hot  or  cold  should  be  sipped  slowly  to 
prevent  an  indigestible  curd  from  forming  in  the  stomach.  Hot 
milk  should  be  hot  but  not  boiled.  A  pinch  of  salt  in  it  may  make 
it  more  palatable  for  some  people.  For  a  very  delicate  digestion,  di- 
luting the  milk  with  water  will  sometimes  render  it  more  digestible. 

Milk  Shake. — Take  a  glass  two-thirds  full  of  rich  milk  or 
cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  ^  Fill  up  glass  with  crushed  ice, 
and  shake  well,   Serve  at  once. 


388 


FOR    THE  SICK 


Orangeade. — This  can  be  made  the  same  as  the  above,  using 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice,  to  one  of  lemon. 

Orange  Flip. — Beat  one  egg  very  light  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  :  add  one-third  of  a  glass  of  orange  juice.  Fill  up 
glass  with  crushed  ice  and  cold  water.    Stir  well  and  serve. 

Corn  Meal  Tea. — See  page  35. 

Barley  Water. — Sec  page  3  So. 

Rice  Water. — Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  three  cups 
of  water  and  boil  gently  for  one  hour.  Strain  and  cool,  salt  or 
sweeten,  as  preferred.  A  little  lemon  juice  in  it  is  relished  by  some. 
A  few  raisins  can  be  boiled  along  with  the  rice  if  desired. 

Toast  Water. — See  page  B86. 

—Sister  Anna  Mitchel,  Xeu-burg,  Pa. 

For  the  Convalescent. 

An  Appetizer. — For  the  invalid  who  likes  something  tart, 
the  following  might  be  relished:  Chip  into  small,  thin  bits,  a  good, 
ripe  apple,  or  part  of  one.  into  a  dessert  dish,  also  a  portion  of 
orange,  pineapple,  peach,  plum  or  grapes,  removing  all  skins  and 
seeds.  Squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  it,  and  cover  with  sugar. 
Let  stand  a  while  until  some  juice  is  extracted.  The  patient  can 
then  be  given  the  juice  in  small  quantities,  or  if  not  restricted  in 
diet,  some  of  the. fruit  also. 

Oatmeal  Mush. — One  cup  of  oatmeal,  two  cups  of  cold 
water,  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  back  on  stove 
and  let  boil  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  It  is  best  well  covered  while 
cooking. 

Toast  Cream  Soup. — Butter  a  slice  of  well-browned  toast, 
break  into  a  bowl,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  for  a  couple 
minutes,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  cream. 

— Sister  Anna  Mitchel,  Newburg,  Pa. 

Diet  List  for  Obstetrical  Patients. 

This  list  is  suitable  for  patients  having  normal  temperature 
and  normal  digestion.    Where  fever  is  present  the  diet  should  be 


FOR    THE  SICK 


389 


restricted  to  liquid  nourishments,  such  as  milk,  strained  gruels,  fruit 
juices,  soups  and  broths,  tea  and  coffee,  the  latter  two  well  diluted 
with  milk  and  cream.  Also  plenty  of  pure  water  should  be  given, 
preferably  between  the  other  nourishments,  rather  than  with  them. 

First  Twenty-four  Hours. — One  cup  full  of  any  of  the  liquids 
given  under  Liquid  Diet  should  be  taken  every  three  of  four  hours. 

Second  Day. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  gruel  (strained),  but- 
tered toast.  Dinner:  Bowl  of  toast  cream  soup,  orange  juice. 
Supper  :    Milk  toast,  stewed  prunes. 

Third  Day. — Breakfast :  Corn  meal  mush  with  cream,  toast, 
prunes,  coffee.  Dinner :  Poached  egg  on  toast,  stewed  peaches 
(dried),  tea.  Supper:  Oyster  soup  (strained)  with  crackers,  or 
toast  cream  soup,  orange  juice. 

Fourth  Day. — Breakfast :  Oatmeal  mush  with  cream,  soft- 
boiled  egg,  toast,  prunes,  coffee.  Dinner:  Beef  or  chicken-broth 
with  rice  and  crackers,  baked  apple,  tea.  Supper:  Milk  toast. 
Stewed  fruit,  cocoa. 

Fifth  Day. — Breakfast:  Orange  or  grape  fruit,  cream  of 
wheat  with  cream,  poached  egg  on  toast,  coffee.  Dinner:  Small 
piece  rare  beefsteak,  vegetable  soup  (strained)  with  crackers,  baked 
potato,  bread,  currant  jelly,  tea.  Supper:  Soft  boiled  egg,  toast, 
prunes,  cocoa. 

Sixth  Day. — Breakfast :  Shredded  wheat  biscuit  with  cream, 
bacon,  toast,  fruit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Broiled  beefsteak  or  chicken, 
beef  or  chicken  broth  with  potato  and  crackers,  boiled  beets,  bread, 
jelly,  tea.  Supper:  Poached  egg,  toast,  graham  crackers,  fresh  or 
stewed  fruit,  cocoa. 

Seventh  Day. — Breakfast:  Oatmeal  mush  with  cream,  ome- 
let, toast,  fruit,  coffee.  Dinner:  Rare  roast  beef,  mashed  potato, 
baked  apple,  bread  and  butter,  tea.  Supper:  Cracker  soup,  bread, 
jelly,  fresh  or  stewed  fruit,  chipped  dried  beef,  chocolate. 


390 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Eighth  Day. — Breakfast:  Corn  meal  mush  (or  any  pre- 
ferred breakfast  cereal)  with  cream,  broiled  Hamburg  steak,  fruit, 
toast,  coffee.  Dinner :  Stewed  chicken,  broth  with  rice  and  crack- 
ers, baked  potato,  fresh  or  stewed  tomato,  gelatine  pudding,  tea. 
Supper :   Oyster  stew,  or  chicken  broth,  toast,  fruit,  milk  or  cocoa. 

Ninth  Day. — Breakfast:  Shredded  wheat  biscuit  with  cream, 
broiled  beefsteak  or  fish,  fruit,  toast,  coffee.  Dinner:  Rare  roast- 
beef,  cream  tomato  soup,  baked  potato,  baked  apple,  tapioca  pud- 
ding, bread,  tea.  Supper :  Soft  boiled  egg,  toast,  fruit,  chocolate 
custard,  milk. 

Tenth  Day. — Breakfast :  Oatmeal  mush  with  cream,  ome- 
let, bacon,  fruit,  toast,  coffee.  Dinner:  Roast  beef  or  mutton,  vege- 
table soup,  mashed  potato,  lettuce,  ice  cream.  Supper:  Egg  on 
toast,  graham  crackers,  fruit,  chocolate,  puffed  rice  with  cream. 

— Sister  Anna  Mifchel,  Newburg,  Pa. 


HOME  REMEDIES 

(Some  of  these  have  been  contributed  to  this  work,  but  most  have 
been  taken  from  the  Inglenook  Doctor  Book.) 

INFANTILE  DISEASES. 
Rules  for  the  Baby. —  (1)  Keep  the  baby  sweet  and  clean. 
(2)  Have  a  regular  time  for  the  bath.  (3)  Begin  early  putting 
baby  into  the  water.  An  earthen  wash-bowl  will  answer  the  purpose 
when  you  have  not  a  bath  tub,  but  by  all  means,  have  the  body  in 
direct  contact  with  the  water.  It  is  so  much  more  effective  than  the 
"  smear  "  most  babies  get  which  is  called  a  bath.  (4)  Whenever 
possible  to  give  it,  do  not  omit  the  daily  outing.  Baby  needs  fresh 
air  as  much  as  grown  people.  (5)  Do  not  feed  the  baby  every  time 
it  cries.  Over-feeding  may  often  be  the  cause  of  the  cry.  (6)  Re- 
member to  give  baby  water  to  drink  several  times  daily.  (7)  do 
not  allow  people  to  kiss  baby  in  the  mouth.  (8)  Do  not  allow  your 
baby  to  be  picked  up  by  the  arms.  (9)  Never  allow  any  sort  of  un- 
necessary handling.   The  little  body  may  become  sore  from  careless 


FOR   THE  SICK 


391 


or  too  frequent  handling.  (10)  Never  cover  the  baby's  face  to  a 
smothering  closeness.  (11)  Never  resort  to  artificial  or  prepared 
feeding  unless  absolutely  necessary.  You  may  try  six  kinds  with- 
out success.  (12)  In  warm  weather  a  bath  in  tepid  soda  water,  at 
baby's  bed  time,  may  do  more  toward  a  night's  sleep  than  hours  of 
"  walking  the  floor." 

To  Prevent  Bowel  Trouble  in  Small  Children. — Never  al- 
low a  child's  stomach  and  abdomen  to  get  cold  but  take  care  that 
that  part  of  its  body  is  always  properly  clothed  and  it  will  not  have 
the  usual  bowel  troubles  of  babyhood. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Thomas,  Butler, 
Ind. 

Summer  Complaint. — A  child  usually  begins  with  vomiting, 
purging  and  fever.  After  each  action,  cleanse  the  bowels  with  ene- 
mas, using  warm  water  and  sweet  milk.  Feed  warm  boiled  milk, 
thickened  milk,  toast  and  the  like,  avoiding  all  green  foods.  For 
fever  bathe  the  body,  especially  the  spinal  column,  with  tepid  water. 
The  spine  should  be  sponged  often,  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes 
at  a  time,  until  the  fever  is  reduced.  Put  a  cool,  wet  compress  of 
several  folds  of  linen  across  the  stomach  and  bowels  and  cover  with 
flannel  and  a  snug  bandage  to  hold  in  place.  Renew  when  warm. 
Keep  the  head  cool  and  the  feet  and  limbs  warm.  This  treatment  is 
good  in  any  case  of  fever. — Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans. 

Croup. — Give  equal  parts  of  butter  and  honey  melted  to- 
gether, or  lard  and  sugar,  or  onion  juice  and  sugar,  or  equal  parts 
of  alum  and  sugar.  If  choking  is  bad  give  the  white  of  an  egg  or 
something  to  cause  vomiting,  that  the  phlegm  may  be  thrown  up. 
Always  grease  the  breast  well  with  lard,  and  keep  covered  with 
flannel.  Melt  the  lard  and  put  it  on  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  If 
nothing  else  helps,  wrap  the  child  in  blankets  and  give  hot  drinks 
until  sweating  is  induced,  but  after  this  treatment  great  care  must 
be  taken  as  the  patient  will  take  cold  very  easily. — Sara  Reese  Eby, 
West  Elkton,  Ohio. 

— Slice  raw  onions  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Allow 
to  dissolve  and  give  the  juice  in  teaspoonful  doses  frequently.  This 
often  relieves  instantly. — 5\  /.  Bowman,  Harrisonburg,  Va. 


392 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Give  Onion  Juice. — To  extract  the  juice  so  as  to  give  it  in 
the  most  concentrated  form  remove  the  outer  shells  and  roll  the  onion 
in  dough  made  of  flour  and  water,  just  as  you  would  roll  a  dumpling, 
cover  in  hot  ashes  in  your  cook  stove  or  any  wood  heater,  place 
plenty  of  hot  coals  around  it  and  roast  one-half  hour  or  more  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  onion.  Squeeze  through  a  piece  of  coarse 
muslin.  Sweeten  if  preferred.  One  large  onion  will  make  almost 
a  half-teacupful  of  juice. — Mrs.  H.  Kurtz,  Hebron,  III. 

Hives. — Rub  the  irritated  skin  or  postules  with  castor  oil, 
applied  with  the  tip  of  the  finger.  Baby  will  pass  from  fretting  to 
slumber  while  the  process  is  going  on,  the  relief  will  be  so  quick. — 
£\  Gnagey,  Pasadena,  Cal. 

THE  THROAT— Colds. 

— Diink  hot  lemonade,  and  soak  the  feet  in  hot  water 
just  before  going  to  bed  at  night. — Flora  L.  Moore  Dougherty, 
Eldora,  Iowa. 

— For  a  sudden  cold  on  the  lungs,  and  hoarseness,  a  cold  com- 
press applied  at  night  and  carefully  covered  with  heavy  woolen 
cloth  will  often  relieve  in  one  night.  When  a  severe  cold  refuses  to 
yield  to  all  ordinary  remedies,  a  Turkish  bath  taken  within  forty- 
eight  hours  after  cold  is  contracted  is  certain  relief.  Persons  suf- 
fering from  cold  should  keep  the  bowels  in  good  condition,  and  drink 
much  water,  hot  water  if  troubled  with  chilly  sensations. — Lydia  E. 
Taylor,  Trained  Nurse,  1014  Randolph  St.,  Waterloo,  Iowa. 

— For  hoarseness,  whip  the  white  of  a  fresh  egg  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Take  frequently  in 
small  doses. — Barbara  Mohler  Citlley,  Elgin,  III. 

Pneumonia. — Wring  flannel  out  of  hot  strong  salt  water  to 
which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  added,  and  lay  on  the  lungs  or  af- 
fected part.  Be  very  careful  not  to  chill  while  using  this,  and  have 
the  flannel  wrung  so  dry  as  not  to  wet  the  clothes  badly.  Cover 
with  a  dry  cloth.  This  is  good  in  lung  fever,  or  rheumatism. — 
Grandma  Johnson,  Red-field,  Kans. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


393 


Sore  Throat. — Slice  a  thin  piece  of  old  smoked  bacon,  the 
older  the  better.  Stitch  this  to  a  piece  of  flannel  and  make  it  black 
with  pepper.  Warm  it  and  fasten  closely  around  the  throat.  Do  not 
remove  until  the  inflammation  has  been  drawn  to  the  outside.  When 
the  meat  is  taken  off  anoint  the  throat  with  a  good  vaseline  and  bind 
up  in  flannel  which  must  be  left  on  until  the  throat  is  entirely  well. 
— Mrs.  Lulu  Goshorn,  Ladoga,  Ind. 

— Take  vinegar  and  make  it  strong  with  salt  and  red  pepper 
(black  may  be  used),  and  gargle  often. — Mary  Reddick,  Sheridan, 
Mo. 

— Gargle  with  diluted  listerine.  Swallow  a  little  occasionally. — 
Flora  L.  Moore  Dougherty,  Eld  or  a,  Iowa, 

Tonsilitis. — Apply  kerosene  freely  on  the  outside  of  the 
neck.  Also  apply  it  inside  with  a  small  syringe,  or  a  swab  made 
by  tying  a  soft  bit  of  cloth  on  the  end  of  a  stick.  A  piece  of  smoked 
bacon  tied  on  the  neck  when  retiring  for  the  night  is  a  good  remedy 
when  applied  in  time. — Emma  C.  Newcomer,  Lanark,  III. 

Remedy  for  Consumption. — One  tablespoonful  of  tar  and  the 
yolks  of  3  hen's  eggs  beaten  well  together.  Dose,  1  tablespoonful 
morning,  noon  and  night. — Sister  Mary  Gibson,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Pneumonia. — Some  time  ago  the  health  board  of  Washing- 
ton, N.  J.,  published  the  following  remedy  and  some  other  health 
boards  are  looking  into  the  matter  with  a  view  of  having  the  same 
thing  published  for  the  good  of  the  general  public :  "  Take  six  or 
ten  onions,  according  to  the  size,  and  chop  fine,  put  in  a  large  spider 
over  a  hot  fire,  then  add  the  same  quantity  of  rye  meal,  and  vinegar 
enough  to  thicken  to  a  paste.  Stir  it  thoroughly,  letting  it  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Then  put  it  in  a  cotton  bag  large  enough  to  cover  the 
lungs  and  apply  to  the  chest  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear.  In  about 
ten  minutes  apply  another ;  and  thus  continue,  by  reheating  the  poul- 
tices, and  in  a  few  hours  the  patient  will  be  out  of  danger.  Continue 
always  till  the  perspiration  starts  freely  from  the  chest.  This  rem- 
edy was  formulated  years  ago  by  one  of  New  England's  best  physi- 
cians, who  never  lost  a  patient  by  the  disease,  and  won  his  renown 
by  simple  remedies." — Ezra  Flory,  Sterling,  III. 


394 


FOR   THE  SICK 


ERUPTIVE  DISEASES. 

Measles. — Give  the  patient  all  the  cold  lemonade  he  can 
drink.  This  will  drive  out  the  measles,  check  the  fever  and  loosen 
the  cough. — Mary  Netzley,  Batavia,  III. 

— In  an  eruptive  disease,  as  measles  or  scarlet  fever,  where 
the  eruption  fails  to  come  to  the  surface  give  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  sulphur  and  a  cup  of  warm  tea. — Mrs.  L.  N.  Moomaw,  Roanoke, 
Va. 

Hives. — Epsom  salts  will  check  bold  hives.  Dose,  two  table- 
spoonfuls.  Continue  taking  one  teaspoonful  a  day  until  no  more 
hives  appear. — Flora  L.  Moore  Dougherty,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

— Take  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  a  glass  of  water.  This  is  one 
dose.  Repeat  several  times  a  day  until  relief  is  obtained.  Hives  are 
caused  by  too  much  acid  in  the  blood  and  the  flour  counteracts  this. 
— Sara  Reese  Eby,  West  Elkton,  Ohio. 

Mumps. — Eat  sparingly,  drink  freely,  use  a  gentle  laxative  if 
necessary  to  keep  the  bowels  in  order,  carefully  avoid  drafts,  cold 
and  dampness.  Hot  flannels  or  other  warm  applications  to  the 
swollen  glands  add  to  the  comfort  of  the  patient. 

FELONS,  BOILS. 

Felon. — When  the  finger  begins  to  pain,  dip  it  in  and  out  of 
scalding  water  quite  frequently  till  the  water  gets  cool.  The  second 
application  may  be  necessary. — Annie  Highbarger,  Lydia,  Md. 

— Poultice  felons  and  other  swellings  with  stewed  pumpkin, 
cold.— Elisabeth  Calvert,  Russellville,  III. 

Boils. — To  draw  any  gathering,  as  a  boil  or  carbuncle,  ap- 
ply scraped  raw  beets  as  a  poultice.  Change  as  often  as  necessary 
until  the  swelling  opens. — Eliza  Englar,  New  Windsor,  Md. 

STOMACH  AND  BOWEL  TROUBLES. 

— For  a  heavy,  distressed  feeling  in  the  stomach  before  going 
to  bed,  caused  by  eating  something  that  is  hard  to  digest,  drink  a 
pint  of  hot  water  as  hot  as  you  can  take  it. — A.  C.  Goetze,  Saratoga, 
Wyo. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


395 


Indigestion. — Drink  a  cup  of  hot  water,  not  too  hot,  an 
hour  before  each  meal. — Emma  Katherine  Spickler,  Polo,  III. 

Vomiting. — Put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  glass  of  water  and 
drink.  Repeat  this  even  if  it  requires  six  doses,  as  it  is  safe. — N.  I. 
Roop,  Warrensburg,  Mo. 

Constipation. — Take  a  cup  of  hot  water,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  added,  before  going  to  bed  at  night  and  before  breakfast. — 
Emma  Katherine  Spickler,  Polo,  III. 

— Chop  fine  one-half  pound  of  the  best  prunes  and  one-half 
pound  of  figs.  Add  one-half  ounce  of  pure  senna  and  enough  mo- 
lasses to  make  a  thick  paste.  Simmer  on  the  stove  about  twenty 
minutes.  Take  a  piece  of  this  paste  about  the  size  of  a  hickorynut. 
Repeat  in  four  hours  if  necessary. — Mary  Lininger,  Inman,  Nebr. 

Cramp  Colic. — For  severe  pain,  as  in  cramp  colic  or  rheuma- 
tism, wring  towels  out  of  hot  water  and  apply  to  the  seat  of  pain 
as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  covering  with  dry  flannel.  Take  a  hot  lid 
from  the  stove,  wrap  well  in  paper  and  place  over  the  towel.  This 
will  start  sweating  and  ease  the  pain  immediately. — H.  J.  Mumah, 
Union  City,  Ind. 

— Take  one  quart  of  warm  water  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  oil  and  use  as  an  enema. — Fannie  E.  Light,  Nurse,  Pasadena, 
Cal. 

Bowel  Complaints. — Boiled  sweet  oil  is  serviceable  in  all 
sorts  of  bowel  complaints  and  colics  and  internal  injury,  as  from 
falls,  as  it  allays  pain,  scatters  coagulated  blood,  prevents  inflamma- 
tion and  heals  gently. — Sarah  A.  Crowl,  Goshen,  Ind. 

Summer  Complaint. — Stir  together  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
Repeat  as  a  dose  as  often  as  necessary. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Jones,  Carroll- 
ton,  Mo. 


396 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Diarrhoea  or  Dysentery. — Take  several  blackberry  or  rasp- 
berry roots,  wash  clean,  cut  fine  with  a  knife,  cover  with  water  and 
boil  till  a  strong-  tea  is  made,  drain  off  and  strain.  Now,  add  sugar 
to  make  a  syrup.  When  finished,  bottle,  cork  and  seal  to  keep  sweet. 
Dose,  one  teaspoonful  one  to  three  hours. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Whisler,  La- 
ton,  Cal. 

— For  violent  pain  in  the  stomach  with  diarrhoea,  take  one 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  in  a  glass  of  water.  Don't  try  the 
"  spice  mill  "  pepper  as  that  is  half  adulterants. — N.  J.  Roop,  War- 
rensburg,  Mo. 

— For  an  adult  give  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed 
with  pure  cold  water  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  every  few  hours. 
For  children  give  less. — Amanda  Witmore,  McPherson,  Kans.; 
Annie  E.  Evans,  Lancaster,  Pa. 

HEADACHE. 

— Put  a  cold  cloth  to  the  head  and  a  bottle  of  hot  water  to  the 
feet. — Mrs.  L.  N.  Moomaw,  Roanoke,  Va. 

Sick  Headache. — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard 
in  a  teacup,  fill  the  cup  with  hot  water  and  drink.  This  either  settles 
the  stomach  or  causes  vomiting,  either  of  which  gives  relief. — Lena 
B.  Fleshman,  Lindside,  W.  Va. 

Biliousness. — Take  the  juice  of  one,  two  or  three  lemons, 
according  to  appetite,  in  as  much  ice  water  as  is  pleasant  to  drink, 
without  sugar,  before  going  to  bed  at  night.  In  the  morning,  on 
rising,  or  at  least  one-half  hour  before  breakfast,  take  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  in  a  glass  of  water  without  sugar.  The  stomach  should 
not  be  irritated  by  eating  lemons  clear,  but  they  should  be  properly 
diluted  so  as  not  to  burn  or  draw  the  throat. — Alice  C.  Garman,  Lan- 
caster, Pa. 

BLEEDING  AT  THE  NOSE. 

— Bathe  the  face  and  neck  with  cold  water. — Gertrude  Row- 
land, Reid,  Md. 


FOR    THE  SICK 


397 


— Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  into  one-half  cup  of  water, 
pour  a  small  quantity  of  this  at  a  time  into  the  hollow  of  the  hand 
and  draw  up,  by  sniffs  into  the  nostrils. — Lydia  E.  Taylor,  Trained 
Nurse,  Waterloo,  Iowa, 

— Pi  ess  your  thumb  or  finger  down  along  the  edge  of  your  jaw- 
bone on  the  same  side  the  nostril  is  bleeding  till  you  feel  the  beating 
of  the  artery,  then  press  on  it  firmly  for  about  five  minutes  and  even 
the  worst  cases  will  stop. — /.  H.  Croft ord,  Martinsburg,  Pa. 

TOOTHACHE. 

— Equal  parts  of  oil  of  cloves  and  chloroform  applied  on  a  piece 
of  cotton  will  relieve  quickly  and  applied  a  few  times  will  destroy 
the  nerve. — Clifford  Ellis,  Dixie,  Wash. 

EARACHE. 

— Dip  cotton  in  molasses  and  put  in  the  ear  and  the  pain  will 
cease. — E.  B.  Lefever,  Ephrata,  Pa, 

— Put  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter  in  the  ear. — Hannah  M. 
Felthouse,  Elkhart,  Ind. 

POULTICES,  SALVES,  LINIMENTS. 

Mustard  Poultice. — To  make  a  mustard  draft,  beat  up  the 
white  of  an  egg,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  enough  vinegar 
to  make  a  paste.  Spread  on  a  cloth  and  sprinkle  with  ground  mus- 
tard. Cover  with  mosquito  bar  or  a  thin  cloth.  Warm  before  ap- 
plying.— Laura  M.  Shuey. 

Bread  and  Butter  Poultice. — For  bruises  and  sores,  take 
equal  quantities  of  butter  and  bread  crumbs,  mix  thoroughly,  adding 
a  little  water,  and  apply  as  a  poultice.  This  reduces  pain  and  swell- 
ing and  prevents  discoloration. — Ada  L.  Early,  Elgin,  III. 

Drawing  Salve. — Take  one  tablespoonful  each  of  rosin, 
sheep's  tallow,  hard  soap  and  brown  sugar,  and  mix  thoroughly  with 
a  knife  till  they  form  a  salve. — Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa, 

White  Liniment. — Good  for  sprains,  bruises,  sores,  sore 
throat,  etc.  Take  one  quart  of  sharp  apple  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of 
turpentine,  and  three  eggs,  and  shake  well  together.  This  is  equally 
good  for  man  or  beast. — Leona  Shively,  Newville,  N.  Dak. 


398 


FOR   THE  SICK 


ACCIDENTS. 

Cuts  and  Bleeding. — If  an  artery  is  severed,  tie  a  small  cord 
or  handkerchief  tightly  above  it,  and  inserting  a  round  stick,  im- 
provise a  tourniquet  to  hold  the  flow  in  check  until  the  surgeon  ar- 
rives. 

— Bind  plenty  of  dry  flour  on  the  cut. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Swab, 
Chelan,  IV ash. 

— Apply  dry  ashes  immediately  to  stop  bleeding  and  prevent 
soreness. — Fannie  L.  Mason,  Baker's  Mill,  Va. 

— A  good  remedy  for  painful  scratches  and  small  cuts  is  one 
ounce  of  rainwater  with  one  teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  camphor  and 
four  drops  of  carbolic  acid  added. — Ida  W ampler  Mohler,  Leeton, 
Mo. 

— Nothing  is  better  than  turpentine  if  immediately  applied, 
as  it  is  painless  and  will  heal  without  inflammation. — Annie  Pitzer, 
Cordell,  Okla.;  Sarah  A.  Sell,  Newry,  Pa.;  Clifford  Ellis,  Dixie, 
Wash.;  Mrs.  I.  H.  Kimmel,  Morrill,  Kans. 

— To  remove  old  scars,  rub  them  every  day  with  pure  olive  oil. 
To  prevent  the  foiming  of  scars  keep  the  parts  wet  with  pure  olive 
oil. — M.  E.  Rothrock,  Hartland,  Wash. 

Sprains. — A  sprain  or  an  unbroken  bruise  should  be  treated 
at  once  to  an  application  of  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  This  may 
be  done  by  showering  hot  water  upon  it.  or  by  hot  cloths  applied 
frequently. — Dora  M.  Ellis,  Dixie,  Wash.;  B.  F.  Kintner,  Ney, 
Ohio. 

— Cut  several  mullein  stalks  into  small  pieces  and  boil  in  one 
quart  of  rider  vinegar.  Apply  to  the  sprain  while  warm. — Maud 
A.  Kline,  Gmghanisburg,  Ohio. 

Burns. — To  draw  the  fire  out,  apply  cider  applebutter  im- 
mediately.— Sophia  Voorhis,  W overly,  Ind. 

— Scrape  a  raw  potato  and  bind  on  with  a  white  cloth. — Lu- 
cinda  Bailey,  Mi.  Etna,  Iowa. 


FOR    THE  SICK 


399 


— If  the  burn  is  not  so  dangerous  as  to  require  the  services 
of  a  physician,  apply  kerosene  to  it  and  wrap  with  a  cloth  saturated 
with  kerosene. — Nora  Brown,  Navarre,  Kans. 

— Apply  the  white  of  an  egg  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lard. 
— Vina  E.  Rcnch,  Harrison,  Okla. 

— Take  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  ten  parts  linseed  oil  and  bind 
on  with  cotton. — Elizabeth  H.  Calvert,  Russellville,  III. 

Lye  Burns. — For  burns  from  lye,  wash  with  strong  vinegar. 
Drink  vinegar  in  case  lye  has  been  swallowed. — Pearl  Weimert, 
Lamed,  Kans. 

Excellent  for  Burns. — Take  white  of  egg,  beat  until  stiff, 
then  add  scant  tablespoonful  of  lard  (to  white  of  each  egg).  Mix 
well,  spread  on  white  cloth  *4  inch  thick  and  put  on  burns  with  egg 
and  lard  next  to  burns.  Change  whenever  it  begins  to  dry,  or  burn 
begms  to  smart.  This  will  ease  burns  immediately  and  draw  all 
fire  out. — Sister  W .  J.  Haynes,  Mooreiield,  Nebr. 

Rusty  Nail  and  Similar  Wounds. — For  a  wound  caused  by 
stepping  on  glass  or  a  nail,  bathe  the  part  at  once  in  baking  soda 
in  very  hot  water.  Then  grease  the  part  with  vaseline  or  lard. — 
Lizzie  A.  Bitzer,  Ephrata,  Pa. 

— Apply  grated  or  scraped  raw  beets  as  poultice.  Renew  as 
fast  as  it  becomes  dry. — Anna  Sniteman,  Keota,  Iowa;  D.  C.  Sum- 
my.  Alt.  Pleasant,  Pa.  ;  Porter  Kimmel,  Morrill,  Kans. 

.  Ivy  Poison. — The  active  principle  in  ivy  is  a  vegetable  acid, 
and  to  counteract  its  effect  upon  the  human  system  we  must  treat 
it  to  a  counter-irritant.  A  proper  alkali  will  neutralize  the  acid  if 
correctly  applied.  Dissolve  soda  in  your  hand  and  apply  to  the 
affected  parts  as  soon  as  the  first  symptom  is  manifested,  or  as 
soon  as  possible.  If  once  in  the  blood  the  best  way  to  reach  it  is  to 
apply  a  strong  solution  of  epsom  salts,  externally  and  internally. — 
D.  A.  Liehty,  Morrill,  Kans. 


400 


FOR   THE  SICK 


Poisons  and  Antidotes. — First,  get  rid  of  as  much  of  the 
poison  as  possible  by  vomiting.  This  should  be  produced  bv  the 
simplest  means,  when  they  are  sufficient,  such  as  tickling  the  throat 
with  a  feather,  drinking  lukewarm  water  and  salt,  or  mustard  and 
water.  If  these  fail,  try  a  powerful  emetic,  such  as  tartar-emetic, 
sulphate  of  copper,  or  the  white  of  an  egg.  If  vomiting  cannot  be 
excited,  the  stomach  pump  must  be  used  by  skillful  hands,  especially 
in  arsenical  or  narcotic  poisons.  After  getting  rid  of  as  much  of  the 
poison  as  possible,  use  some  of  the  following  simple  and  reliable 
antidotes:  Acids  are  neutralized  by  alkalies,  such  as  a  thick  soap- 
suds of  soap  and  milk,  chalk,  soda,  lime  water,  magnesia,  or  salera- 
tus.  In  cases  of  poisoning  from  sulphuric  acid,  do  not  use  soapsuds 
or  limewater.  For  nitric  or  oxalic  acid,  use  magnesia  and  lime, 
and  for  prussic  acid  use  dilute  ammonia,  and  electricity.  Alkalies 
are  neutralized  by  acids,  the  vegetable  acids,  vinegar,  or  oils  in  large 
quantities.  Opiums  and  narcotics  are  neutralized  by  strong  coffee 
and  frequent  doses  of  aqua  ammonia.  For  arsenic — probably  the 
most  difficult  of  all  poisons  to  antidote — give  peroxide  of  iron  in 
tablespoonful  doses  every  ten  minutes  until  relief  is  obtained.  When 
poisoned  by  bismuth,  copper  and  their  compounds,  mercury,  tin, 
zinc,  and  their  salts,  and  creosote,  use  albumen  in  some  form ;  as  the 
white  of  egg,  sweet  milk,  strong  coffee,  and  mucilaginous  drinks. 
For  lead  and  its  salts,  use  epsom  salts,  glauber  salts,  dilute  sulphuric 
acid,  or  even  lemonade  in  mild  cases.  For  iodine,  use  starch,  wheat 
flour,  or  arrowroot,  beaten  up  in  warm  water.  For  gases,  use  di- 
lute ammonia,  electricity  and  friction.  In  poisoning  from  animals, 
but  little  or  no  benefit  is  derived  from  vomiting,  but  we  should  re- 
sort to  antidotes  at  once,  and  often  to  the  actual  cautery.  For  the 
bite  of  a  mad  dog,  apply  the  actual  cautery  to  the  wound  instantly, 
and  give  large  doses  of  zinc  or  muriate  or  iron  for  several  days. 
For  serpents'  bites,  apply  the  cautery  and  give  sufficient  whisky  or 
brandy  to  produce  intoxication.  For  insect  poison,  apply  iodine, 
hartshorn  and  oil  to  the  part  and  give  stimulants  for  a  day  or  two. 
— Sara  Reese  Eby,  West  Elkion,  Ohio. 


FOR   THE  SICK 


401 


Poison  Oak. — Apply  spirits  of  camphor  to  poison  from  poison 
oak.  Copperas  dissolved  in  water  is  also  a  very  good  remedy. — ■ 
L.  C.  Klepper,  Cliff,  Tenn, 

Mad  Dog  Bite. — Wash  the  bitten  part  with  vinegar  and 
water  two  or  three  times  a  day.  Give  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar, 
in  half  a  glass  of  water,  every  morning  for  three  or  four  days.  I 
have  never  had  a  fatal  case  in  thirty  years  of  jungle  life. — Mission- 
ary Haegert,  Bethel  Santhal  Mission,  Jamtara,  Bengal,  India. 

Rattlesnake  Bite. — Beat  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg  and  mix  with 
salt  to  the  consistency  of  a  good  salve.  Apply  to  the  bite  as  a  poul- 
tice and  change  frequently  till  the  poison  is  all  out. — Susan  Eckard, 
Martinville,  Mo. 

— Take  vinegar  and  stir  in  salt  enough  to  dip  up  with  the 
hand,  lay  the  salt  on  the  bite  and  keep  it  on  until  all  the  swelling 
or  poison  is  drawn  out.  Do  not  give  the  patient  anything  in  his 
stomach.  This  is  good  for  man  or  beast. — Lucinda  Bailey,  Mt. 
Etna,  Iowa. 

— For  a  snake  bite,  or  any  poisonous  bite  or  sting,  pound  a  lot 
of  onions  till  soft,  salt  liberally  and  bind  on  as  a  poultice.  Renew 
often. — Nannie  E.  Neher,  Palestine,  Ark. 

Stings  and  Bites  of  Insects. — For  a  bee  sting,  cover  the 
affected  part  with  dampened  salt. — Fannie  L.  Mason,  Bakers  Mill, 
Va. 

— Apply  sweet  oil,  and  give  a  tablespoonful  of  it  internally. 

— Mix  baking  soda  with  water  to  the  consistency  of  molasses, 
apply  and  let  it  dry  on  the  wound. — D.  C.  Summy,  Mt.  Pleasant, 
Pa.  ' 

Chigger  Bites. — Rubbing  carbolic  acid  water — fifteen  drops 
of  carbolic  acid  and  one-half  cup  of  water — on  chigger  bites,  or 
hives  as  they  are  sometimes  called,  will  stop  the  itching. — Flora  L. 
Moore  Dougherty,  Eldora,  Iowa. 

Choking. — A  piece  of  food  lodged  in  the  throat  may  some- 
times be  pushed  down  with  the  finger  or  by  two  or  three  blows  on 
the  back  between  the  shoulders. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Swab,  Chelan,  Wash. 


402 


FOR    THE  SICK 


— To  dislodge  a  fishbone  from  the  throat,  swallow  the  white 
of  a  raw  egg. — Barbara  Mohler  Culley,  Elgin,  III. 

Sunstroke. — Give  the  patient  a  cup  of  coffee  as  hot  as  he 
can  drink.  Do  net  give  anything  cold.  Get  the  sweat  started  and 
the  patient  is  out  of  danger. — E.  P.  L.  Dow. 

Simplified  Method  for  the  Restoration  of  Drowning  Persons. 

— The  following  simplified  method  for  the  restoration  of  drowning 
persons,  and  of  those  who  have  lost  consciousness  through  asphyxia 
or  any  other  cause,  was  developed  by  Dr.  J.  V.  Laborde,  of  the 
School  of  Anthropology,  in  Paris.  It  has  proved  efficacious  in  many 
cases.  In  one  cited,  of  a  child  who  had  been  submerged  for  nearly 
fifteen  minutes,  the  return  of  breathing  was  accomplished  in  ten 
minutes.  The  translation  here  given  is  from  a  leaflet  which  Dr.  La- 
borde distributes  among  his  pupils: 

■  1,  As  soon  as  the  drowning  man  has  been  taken  from  the 
water,  force  open  his  mouth.  If  the  teeth  are  clinched,  separate 
them  with  the  fingers,  or  by  means  of  any  hard  object — e.  g.,  a  piece 
of  wood,  the  end  of  a  cane,  the  handle  of  a  knife,  of  a  spoon,  of  a 
fork. 

2.  Firmly  seize  between  the  thumb  and  the  first  finger  of  the 
right  hand  the  end  of  the  tongue,  using  your  handkerchief,  or  any 
piece  of  linen,  to  prevent  the  tongue  from  slipping ;  then  repeatedly, 
rhythmically,  and  with  decision,  pull  it  from  the  mouth,  and  relax  it 
alternately — at  the  rate  of  at  least  twenty  times  a  minute,  imitating 
the  cadenced  movements  of  expiration  and  inspiration. 

3.  At  the  same  time  introduce,  far  back  into  the  throat,  the 
first  finger  of  the  left  hand,  pressing  upon  the  base  of  the  tongue, 
so  as  to  induce  vomiting,  and  thus  free  the  stomach  of  the  water  or 
food  which  encumbers  it. 

4.  This  treatment,  the  most  efficacious  known  method  of 
bringing  back  the  respiration,  must  be  begun  without  the  slightest 
delay,  and  persistently  continued  for  a  half  hour,  an  hour,  or  more. 
At  the  same  time  all  the  usual  remedies  must  be  applied.  Most 


FOR   THE  SICK 


403 


important  are  the  removal  of  the  clothing,  friction  over  the  whole 
body,  pressure  upon  the  anterior  part  of  the  chest,  the  restoration 
of  the  bodily  heat,  and,  where  it  is  possible,  the  application  upon  the 
region  of  the  heart  of  compresses  of  very  hot  water. 

The  same  method  may  and  should  be  applied,  in  the  same  man- 
ner, in  all  cases  of  asphyxia  and  of  syncope  (loss  of  consciousness), 
from  whatever  cause. 

When  a  person  has  been  taken  from  the  water  in  an  unconscious 
condition,  the  old  Howard  system  of  resuscitation  should  be  used. 
It  consists  of  kneeling  over  the  lower  part  of  the  chest  and  relaxing 
the  pressure.  This  simple  operation  should  be  repeated  nine  or  ten 
times  during  a  minute.  The  treatment  should  not  be  applied  in  a 
harsh  manner.  The  Howard  system  is  in  vogue  in  most  of  the  navies 
of  the  world.  The  Sylvester  system  is  another  good  method.  To 
get  the  water  from  the  stomach  and  chest  the  patient  is  stripped 
to  the  waist  and  placed  face  downward  with  the  pit  of  the  stomach 
raised  above  the  level  of  the  mouth  by  a  roll  of  clothing  or  other 
material  placed  transversely  beneath  the  trunk.  The  tongue  must 
be  held  out,  the  larynx  kept  open,  and  the  mouth  and  throat  cleared 
of  mucus.  Efforts  to  resuscitate  should  be  continued  an  hour,  for 
apparently  inanimate  individuals  have  been  brought  to  life  at  the  end 
of  that  time,  after  having  been  in  the  water  half  an  hour  or  longer. 
Attempts  to  restore  respiration  should  be  accompanied  by  friction, 
such  as  the  administration  of  stimulants  and  the  application  of  heat 
to  the  abdomen  and  lower  extremities. 

THE  FEET. 

Frosted  Feet. — Dissolve  alum  in  water  till  very  strong,  dip 
the  frosted  part  in  the  alum  water,  then  hold  by  the  fire.  Repeat 
until  relieved. — Mrs.  S.  /.  Kester,  Chanute,  Kans. 

— When  the  feet  begin  to  pain  and  itch,  remove  shoes  or  boots 
and  pour  a  little  coal  oil  on  the  stocking  over  the  frosted  place,  just 
enough  to  dampen  the  stocking,  then  put  on  the  shoes  again  and 
that  is  the  last  of  the  frost.  It  is  very  seldom  that  a  second  applica- 
tion is  necessary. — M.  W.  Royer,  Cordova,  Md. 


404 


FOR  THE  SICK 


Corns. — Add  enough  fine  bread  crumbs  to  one-fourth  cup  of 
cider  vinegar  to  make  a  good  poultice  after  standing  about  one-half 
hour.  Apply  this  poultice  when  retiring  at  night.  In  the  morning 
the  soreness  will  be  gone  and  the  corn  can  be  picked  out.  If  a  very 
obstinate  corn  two  or  more  applications  may  be  required  to  effect  a 
cure. — Laura  B.  Reiff,  Idaville,  hid.;  D.  M.  Weybright,  New  Paris, 
Ind, 


FCX3.  THE  SICK.  405 


/ 


FOR  THE  SICK 


1 
1 

1/  \i 

■n 

1 
t 

1 

MISCELLANEOUS 

2K 

1 

To  Use  Stale  Bread. — Take  scraps  of  bread,  biscuit,  and 
graham  bread,  too,  put  them  in  the  oven  and  dry  thoroughly;  if 
thev  brown  a  little,  it  makes  no  difference ;  then  roll  fine  with  rolling 
pin  and  put  in  a  dry  place  for  future  use.  In  making  batter  cakes 
in  the  morning  use  half  flour  and  half  bread  crumbs.  Also  nice  to 
use  in  making  scalloped  tomatoes  or  potatoes  or  to  roll  veal  cutlets 
in. — Sister  Prudence  Miller,  New  Rockford,  N.  Dak. 

Corn  Bread  for  Young  Poultry. — Take  3  pints  of  sour  milk 
or  buttermilk,  2  large  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  T/i  cup  of 
hot  water  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Stir  well,  then  add  iy2  pints 
of  wheat  bran,  3  pints  of  fine  corn  meal  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  lard.  Mix  and  pour  into  a  dripping  pan,  bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Y\ lien  fed,  moisten  with  hot  sweet  milk  or  water 
and  sprinkle  with  black  pepper. — Sister  M.  Jane  Stauffer,  Polo,  III. 

Buttermilk  Delda. — Let  2  quarts  of  buttermilk  come  to  a 
boil,  sweeten,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  moistened  with  sweet 
milk,  and  stir  till  thick.  To  be  eaten  warm  or  cold. — Sister  Sarah  A. 
Crozi'l,  Nappanee,  Ind. 

Mulled  Buttermilk. — Take  2  quarts  of  fresh  buttermilk,  1 
scant  teacupful  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  pint  of  new  milk  and  1  teacupful 
of  sugar.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  flour  and  milk,  mixing  it  into  a 
smooth  batter,  then  put  the  buttermilk  into  a  kettle  over  a  hot  fire, 
and  stir  constantly  till  it  almost  boils.  Add  the  batter  and  continue 
to  stir  till  it  boils,  add  the  sugar  and  serve  warm.  Some  think  a 
little  nutmeg  improves  it. — Sister  Nannie  H.  Straxcr,  Johnstown, 
Pa. 

Cheese. — Take  2  gallons  of  thick  milk  and  1  gallon  of  sweet 
milk,  and  put  into  a  vessel.  Beat  6  eggs  light,  pour  in  the  milk, 
salt ;  place  on  the  stove,  stirring  it  until  it  curdles,  then  pour  it  into 

407 


4C8 


MISCELLANEOUS 


a  cloth  or  sack  and  place  between  two  lids  with  a  heavy  weight, 
press  24  hours.  Then  take  it  out,  and  slice  ready  for  the  table. — 
Sister  C.  J.  Senseman,  Covington,  Ohio. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Take  good  thick  milk,  place  it  on  the  stove. 
When  it  begins  to  draw  whey  around  the  outer  edge  pour  it  into  a 
colander  or  thin  sack  made  of  cheese  cloth.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  allow  the  cheese  to  scald  too  hard,  as  it  will  not  then  work  up 
smooth.  When  well  drained,  put  it  into  a  vessel,  work  it  smooth 
with  a  spoon  or  a  cheese  mixer.  Salt  to  taste  and  stir  in  sweet 
cream  to  make  as  thin  as  desired. — Sister  C.  J.  Senseman,  Coving- 
ton, Ohio. 

Egg  Cheese. — Put  4  quarts  of  fresh  milk  into  a  copper  ket- 
tle and  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  While  the  milk  is  being  heated 
beat  10  eggs  thoroughly,  and  into  the  eggs  stir  1  quart  of  thick  milk ; 
now  stir  this  slowly  into  the  hot  milk,  boil  and  stir  it  constantly  un- 
til it  curdles  just  enough  to  separate  the  cheese  from  the  whey. 
Line  a  tin  straining  dish  with  a  thin  white  cloth,  strain  off  the  whey 
and  allow  the  cheese  to  cool.  The  straining  dish  will  give  shape  to 
the  cheese.  Eat  by  cutting  off"  in  slices  about  y$  inch  thick,  lay  it  on 
a  piece  of  bread  and  spread  with  molasses. — Sister  Sadie  A.  Bam- 
berger, Palmyra,  Pa. 

German  Cheese. — Put  2  gallons  of  clabber  in  an  iron  pot  over 
a  moderate  fire  and  bring  to  180  degrees  Fahrenheit  in  ^4  hour; 
now  skim  it  out  of  the  pot  and  put  in  the  colander  to  drain.  As 
soon  as  cool  enough  to  work  with  the  hands,  press  out  most  of  the 
whey  by  handfuls  and  lay  in  another  vessel,  the  warmer  you  work 
it  the  better,  as  the  soda  will  have  more  effect.  Now  add  2  small 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and  1  of  salt,  mix  well  and  press  down  lightly 
in  the  vessel.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  an  hour,  although  it  can  be 
kept  several  days.  If  properly  made,  it  will  rise  and  be  light  and 
when  cut  in  slices  and  laid  on  a  plate  looks  well  on  the  table.  If  it 
is  dry  and  crummy,  it  may  have  been  scalded  too  hard  or  have  been 
pressed  too  hard.  If  soft  and  sticky,  not  enough  scalding  and  too 
much  whey. — Sister  Catharine  Wampler,  Dayton,  Va. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


409 


Homemade  Cheese. — Put  1  gallon  of  sweet  milk  on  the  stove; 
while  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  6  well-beaten  eggs  in  1  pint  of  thick 
milk,  salt  to  taste,  add  to  the  hot  milk  and  let  it  all  come  to  a  boil  till 
the  milk  and  eggs  separate,  then  pour  into  a  clean  flour  sack  and 
hang  up  to  drain.  Make  in  the  morning  and  it  will  be  ready  to  be 
used  by  suppertime. — Sister  Lizzie  E.  Smith,  Morrill,  Kans. 

Good  Homemade  Cheese. — Heat  4  gallons  of  fresh  milk  to 
eighty  degrees,  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  }i  of  a  rennet 
tablet,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  %  cup  of  water.  Let  sit  until  it 
is  a  thick  clabber.  Then  stir  and  dip  off  the  whey.  Return  to  the 
stove  and  stir  until  warm ;  then  remove  and  salt.  Now  spread  a 
cheese  cloth  in  a  ring,  which  can  be  made  by  taking  the  bottom  out 
of  a  syrup  bucket.  Place  the  ring  on  a  board  and  put  the  cheese 
in  and  spread  corners  of  cloth  as  smoothly  as  possible  over  the  top 
of  the  cheese.  Then  put  on  a  board  which  fits  into  a  ring,  and  put 
weight  enough  on  to  press  out  the  whey.  In  twelve  hours  turn  the 
cheese  and  lift  corners  of  cloth  out  and  press  again  twelve  hours. 
Then  remove  from  the  press  and  wash  every  day  in  salt  water  for 
two  weeks,  when  it  is  ready  to  use. — Sister  Kate  Moomaw,  Ver- 
sailles, Mo. 

To  Keep  Fresh  Fish. — Take  fresh  fish,  cut  in  slices  for 
frying,  salt  and  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown.  Lay  carefully  in  an 
open  jar  or  granite  pan  and  cover  with  melted  lard.  Will  be  like 
fresh  fish  when  opened.  Use  as  other  fried-down  meat. — Sister 
Jennie  S heeler,  Kingsley,  Iowa. 

Quick  Way  to  Hull  Corn  for  Hominy. — Take  1  quart  of 
shelled  corn,  1  quart  of  strong  lye,  made  of  wood  ashes,  the 
stronger  the  better ;  let  the  lye  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  corn,  let  it 
boil  20  or  30  minutes,  according  to  the  strength  of  the  lye ;  stir  y$ 
of  the  time  quite  hard,  With  a  knife ;  turn  the  corn  into  a  colander ; 
put  it  back  in  the  kettle  and  boil  and  stir,  draining  off  the  water  3 
times ;  then  fill  the  kettle  with  water  and  let  it  cook  all  day.  If  done 
properly,  you  will  have  some  very  nice  hulled  sweet  corn  with  a  little 
labor. — Sister  Nancy  Babcock,  Nora  Springs,  Iowa. 


1 


410 


MISCELLANEOUS 


To  Make  Graham  Flour. — Weigh  2r>  pounds  of  wheat  flour. 
5  pounds  of  bran,  and  2;^  pounds  of  shorts.    Mix  well  together. — 

Sister  Clare  Wells,  Ellison.  X.  Dak. 

Dried  Beef. — For  100  pounds  of  beef  take  the  following  in- 
gredients :  6  gallons  of  water.  3  ounces  of  saltpetre.  3  pounds  of 
sugar  and  9  pounds  of  salt :  mix  well,  then  boil  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  skim  when  boiling.  After  the  mixture  has  been  allowed  to  cool, 
put  the  beef  in  and  leave  10  days,  after  which  hang  the  beef  up, 
and  smoke  it  if  preferred. — Sister  I.  B.  Trout.  Lanark,  III. 

To  Corn  Beef. — For  100  pounds  of  beef  take  6  gallons  of 
water,  7  pounds  of  salt,  fine  and  coarse  mixed.  2  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.  2  ounces  of  saltpetre  and  1  ounce  of  soda :  boil  all  together, 
and  skim.  Then  pour  the  brine  on  the  meat  boiling  hot.  Keep  the 
meat  under  the  brine  with  a  weight.  After  the  blood  is  all  drawn 
out.  say  in  3  or  4  weeks,  take  the  meat  out  piece  by  piece  and  wash 
the  blood  off  in  pure,  cold  water.  Wash  out  the  jar.  put  the  meat 
back :  then  boil  the  brine,  adding  a  little  soda  to  bring  up  all  the 
blood.  Skim  carefully  and  let  the  brine  get  cold,  then  pour  it  on 
the  meat  again ;  add  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  meat.  Be  sure 
to  keep  the  meat  all  under  the  brine. — Sister  Minnie  Miller,  Kidder, 
Mo. 

Keeping  Meats. — Take  fresh  tenderloin  or  any  lean  pieces 

of  pork  or  beef,  cut  in  slices  for  frying.  Salt  and  pepper,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry  brown.  Lay  carefully  in  an  open  jar.  put  weight  on 
meat  and  cover  with  melted  lard.  When  cold  remove  weight  and 
put  on  more  lard.  The  larger  the  bulk  the  better. — Sister  Kate  How- 
ard. Cambridge  City,  Ind. 

Sausage,  to  Make. — Take  20  pounds  of  pork  (3<  lean  and 
34  fat),  6  ounces  of  salt.  1  ounce  of  pepper.  \y2  ounces  of  sage  or  1 
ounce  of  ground  cloves.  Put  the  meat  through  a  meat  grinder,  and 
mix  all  together  well. — Sister  I.  W.  Trostle,  Glendora,  Cal. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


411 


To  Keep  Sausage. — Fill  a  gallon  jar  within  2  inches  of  the 
top  with  fresh  sausage  meat,  press,  set  in  the  oven  and  roast  till 
there  is  no  more  water  boiling  out.  Remove  from  the  oven,  put 
on  a  small  weight,  and  after  it  is  cold  cover  with  lard  and  set  in  a 
cool  place. — Sister  Carrie  Walker,  Glade,  Pa. 

To  Keep  Sausage. — Take  fresh  sausage,  put  in  frying  pan 
and  pour  over  it  a  little  water.  Fry  slowly  until  thoroughly  done 
and  the  water  is  all  fried  out.  While  hot  put  in  2  or  3  gallon  jars, 
pour  on  the  grease  that  fries  out,  cover  with  a  plate,  and  press. 
Melt  fresh  lard,  cover  about  3  inches  thick.  When  cold,  remove 
plate  and  fill  jar  even  full  with  fresh  lard. — Sister  Sarah  A.  Crowl, 
Nappanee,  Ind. 

To  Keep  Sausage  for  Summer  Use. — Make  sausage  into 
cakes  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  nicely  browned.  Pack  in  jars  and 
cover  with  lard. — Sister  J.  W.  Trostle,  Glendora,  Col. 

Canned  Sausage. — After  the  sausage  has  been  put  into  cas- 
ings place  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  over  a  little  water  and  put  in  the 
oven.  Let  roast  till  the  water  is  all  out,  then  put  in  cans,  cover 
with  lard,  and  seal—  Sister  Carrie  Walker,  Glade,  Pa. 

To  Season  Sausage. — Take  ^4  of  a  pound  of  pepper  and 
24  of  a  pound  of  salt  to  40  pounds  of  meat. — Sister  Annie  R.  Stonery 
Union  Bridge,  Md. 

Sugar  Cure  for  Meat. — Take  y2  pound  of  best  saltpetre,  J/2 
pound  of  ground  black  pepper,  \y2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  5  quarts 
of  salt  and  hot  water  enough  to  dissolve  saltpeter.  Mix  all  together, 
and  rub  in  the  meat  well  on  all  sides  with  the  hands.  Keep  the 
meat  where  it  will  not  freeze  for  10  days  or  2  weeks,  and  then 
smoke.  These  directions  were  intended  for  500  pounds  of  meat,  but 
we  use  the  mixture  some  stronger. — Sister  Katie  Moore  Strickler, 
Eldora,  Iowa, 


412 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Sugar  Cure  for  Pork. — Take  ^  of  a  pound  of  salpeter,  24 
of  a  pound  of  black  pepper,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  5  quarts  of 
ground  rock  salt,  and  5  quarts  of  dairy  salt.  Dissolve  the  saltpeter 
in  a  quart  of  hot  water,  pour  over  the  other  ingredients  and  mix 
well.  After  the  animal  heat  is  well  out  of  the  meat,  rub  the  mix- 
ture in  well  with  the  hands  and  repeat  in  a  day.  Two  applications 
are  required  for  hams  and  shoulders ;  only  one  for  bacon.  This  pre- 
paration will  be  sufficient  for  five  good-sized  hogs.  Let  the  meat  lie 
on  the  table  with  the  flesh  side  up,  in  a  very  cool  place,  just  so  it 
does  not  freeze,  for  ten  days  or  two  weeks,  then  hang  up  and  smoke, 
not  allowing  the  meat  to  become  heated  while  smoking. — Sister 
Emma  Newcomer,  Mount  Carroll,  III. 

To  Cure  Hams,  Shoulders  or  Side  Meat. — For  100  pounds  of 
pork  take  5  pounds  of  salt,  2  ounces  of  black  pepper,  1  ounce  of 
saltpetre  and  1  quart  of  good  molasses.  All  the  ingredients  should 
be  well  mixed  except  the  molasses,  which  is  applied  first  and  only 
once.  Smear  well  all  over  the  meat,  then  rub  on  the  balance  of  the 
preparation.  A  second  or  third  application  may  be  necessary  to  get 
it  all  on.  Let  lie  on  the  bacon  side,  in  the  cellar  or  some  place 
where  it  will  not  freeze,  until  salt  is  taken  up,  generally  about  10 
days  or  2  weeks.  Then  it  is  ready  for  smoking.  It  does  not  matter 
if  it  freezes  after  it  is  ready  for  smoking. — Sister  Wm.  C.  Wolf, 
Plattsburg,  Mo. 

To  Cure  Hams  and  Shoulders. — Take  3  quarts  of  fine  salt, 
4  pounds  of  sugar  or  1  quart  of  molasses  and  1  ounce  of  saltpetre. 
Pulverize  and  mix  the  above,  reserving  2  quarts  of  the  salt.  Rub 
the  meat  well  all  over  with  the  mixture  and  lay  on  boards  in  the 
cellar  for  24  hours.  Then  place  clean  stones  in  the  bottom  of  a  bar- 
rel or  tub  and  lay  sticks  across  them  so  the  meat  will  not  soak  in 
the  liquor  that  drains  from  it.  Pack  the  meat  in  layers  sprinkling 
between  them  the  remaining  2  quarts  of  salt.  Let  it  lie  in  the 
cask  15  or  16  days,  every  day  during  this  time  tipping  the  cask  to 
drain  off  the  liquor,  or  draw  it  through  a  bunghole  near  the  bottom. 
Pour  this  back  in  cups  full  over  the  meat.   This  amount  will  cure 


MISCELLANEOUS 


413 


80  pounds.  Use  the  same  proportion  for  larger  quantity.  The 
above  directions  are  for  meat  that  is  to  be  smoked.  If  you  do  not 
care  to  smoke  the  meat,  you  can  pack  it  down  with  dry  salt,  using 

3  quarts  to  100  pounds. — Sister  Amanda  C.  Honff,  Fort  Defiance, 
Va. 

To  Keep  Hams  and  Shoulders  for  Summer  Use. — Cut  the 

pork  in  slices  large  enough  for  a  small  roast,  3  to  4  pounds  in  size. 
Season  and  bake  till  water  is  all  absorbed;  then  pack  in  jars  and 
cover  with  lard. — Sister  J.  W.  Trostle,  Glendora,  Cat. 

Pawn  Haas. — Take  1  quart  of  strong  broth  from  fresh  pork 
and  beef,  add  to  it  ^  cup  of  lard,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Set  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  stir  in 
buckwheat  flour  till  it  is  real  stiff.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  knead 
till  it  comes  off  the  ladle.  Put  it  in  a  mold,  let  it  get  cold,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.  Cut  it  in  slices  about  %  inch  thick  and  fry  the  same 
as  corn  meal  mush. — Sister  Jos.  Amick,  Elgin,  III. 

Mince  Meat. — Take  5  or  6  pounds  of  a  good  boiling  beef, 
cook  till  very  tender,  salting  when  getting  partly  done,  and  let  boil 
as  near  dry  as  possible.    Mince  3  pounds  of  beef  suet ;  seed  and  cut 

4  pounds  of  raisins ;  wash  and  dry  4  pounds  of  currants ;  cut  1 
pound  of  citron  into  small  thin  pieces ;  chop  very  fine  4  quarts  of 
good  cooking  apples.  (This  can  be  most  conveniently  done  if  a 
food  chopper  is  at  hand.)  Put  all  into  a  large  saucepan  and  add 
two  ounces  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  ginger,  4  grated  nut- 
megs, the  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  two  lemons,  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  2  pounds  sugar ;  put  into  a  saucepan 
1  quart  of  boiled  cider  or  1  quart  of  currant  or  grape  juice,  1  quart 
of  molasses  and  a  large  lump  of  butter.  Let  come  to  boiling  point, 
and  pour  over  the  other  ingredients.  Then  put  in  vinegar  to  make 
as  sharp  as  you  like.  Put  all  on  stove,  and  thoroughly  heat  through. 
It  is  ready  to  can  to  be  used  when  you  wish  it. — Sister  Esther  M.  H. 
Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba, 


414 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Mince  Meat. — Take  5  pounds  of  steak,  1  pound  of  suet,  2 
pounds  of  currants,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  each  of  salt,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  1  teaspoonful  cloves, 
1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  gallon  of  apples  and  1  lemon.  Boil  steak  and 
suet  together ;  when  done,  let  it  cool,  then  chop  fine.  Also  chop  ap- 
ples, mix  all  together,  sweeten  to  taste  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Then 
put  in  cans  like  any  other  fruit. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

Mustard. — Take  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  2]/2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Add  enough  vinegar  to  make  a  paste  and 
let  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours  before  using. — Sister  Elva  Deal,  Brum- 
baugh, N.  Dak. 

Prepared  Mustard  for  Table  Use. — Mix  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard ;  beat  in  1  egg  until 
perfectly  smooth  and  then  stir  in  1  cup  of  vinegar  very  slowly  to  pre- 
vent curdling.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.  After 
removing  from  fire  add  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  olive  oil  and  stir 
until  thoroughly  mixed. — Sister  Lucinda  Bailey,  Mt.  Ida,  Kans. 

A  Recipe  for  Mustard  as  a  Condiment,  Using  Home-Grown 
Seed. — Take  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  make  a  thin 
mustard,  allowing  it  to  stand  a  time  for  the  absorption  of  the  vine- 
gar, adding  more  vinegar,  if  needed.  Now  take  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  finely-grated,  fresh  horseradish,  and  with  a  fork  beat 
this  into  the  mustard  until  thoroughly  incorporated.  This  is  one  of 
the  best  and  most  expensive  condiments,  when  you  buy  it.  It 
should  be  made  in  small  quantities,  as  it  loses  its  horseradish  flavor 
in  time.  This  is  an  improvement  on  the  horseradish  or  the  mustard 
taken  separately,  and  a  little  of  it.  freshly  prepared,  goes  a  long  way. 
Useful  on  smoked  meats  in  early  spring. — Sister  Barbara  Culley, 
Elgin,  III. 

For  the  Laundry. — A  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  put  into  the 
boiler  with  white  clothes  will  aid  the  whitening. — Clear  boiling 
water  poured  through  tea  stains  will  remove  them. — Sister  Charles 
H.  Browvij  Omaja,  Cuba. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


415 


Laundry  Hints. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  added 
to  the  bluing  water  in  which  white  clothes  are  rinsed  will  prevent 
any  particles  of  blue  from  adhering  to  the  clothes  and  causing  a 
streak  or  spot  of  blue. — To  prevent  colors  from  fading,  put  an  ounce 
of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pail  of  water.  Soak  the  material  in  the  solu- 
tion for  two  hours  and  let  dry  before  washing  and  ironing. — Sister 
Edith  Riley,  Highland,  Ohio. 

To  Remove  grass  stains  wash  in  cold  water  before  putting 
in  the  wash. — Sister  Mollie  Zarger,  Franklin  Grove,  III. 

Home-Made  Soap. — To  2  boxes  of  Lewis  lye  take  1  pound 
of  resin,  y2  pound  of  borax,  15  quarts  of  rain  water,  and  8  pounds 
of  grease.  Boil  until  thick.- — Sister  Mary  C.  Beard  Eshelman,  Elgin, 
III 

To  Make  Hard  Soap. — Empty  the  contents  of  a  can  of  Lewis 
lye,  "  patent  perfumed,  '98"  (any  good  concentrated  lye  will  do), 
into  a  stone  jar  or  iron  vessel  with  2y2  pints  of  cold  water,  stir 
until  lye  dissolves  and  set  aside  until  temperature  by  your  ther- 
mometer is  not  over  80  degrees.  Melt  Sy2  pounds  of  strained 
grease,  tallow  or  lard  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  until  all  dissolves.  Then 
set  aside  until  temperature  is  120  degrees.  Now  slowly  pour  dis- 
solved lye  into  the  grease,  stirring  until  lye  and  grease  are  thorough- 
ly mixed  and  thick  like  honey ;  but  do  not  stir  too  fast  or  too  long, 
or  it  will  separate.  Then  set  in  a  warm  place  and  cover  up  with  a 
piece  of  old  carpet  for  two  days,  when  it  may  be  cut  into  cakes.  It 
is  as  fine  as  any  white  hard  soap. — Sister  Jennie  S heeler,  Kingsley, 
Iowa. 

When  Boiling  Apple  Butter  a  small  piece  of  butter  put  into 
the  kettle  when  it  is  rising  fast,  will  prevent  it  boiling  over.  Also 
a  small  piece  of  bread  put  into  the  kettle  when  rendering  lard  will 
prevent  it  boiling  over. — Sister  Mary  H.  Hoerner,  Auburn,  III. 

In  Mixing  Flour  Paste  for  starch  or  gravies,  just  take  enough 
water  or  milk  at  first  to  make  a  thick  batter  and  rub  or  beat  till 
smooth,  then  add  more  water  or  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  you  will 
avoid  all  lumps. — Sister  L.  Clanin,  Hicksville,  Wash. 


416 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Kerosene  will  soften  boots  and  shoes  that  have  become 
hardened  by  water. — Sister  Charles  H.  Brown,  Omaja,  Cuba. 

To  Preserve  smoked  meat  from  the  flies,  thoroughly  dust  it 
with  powdered  borax. — Sister  Annie  R.  S toner,  Union  Bridge,  Md. 

The  Best  Way  to  keep  nickel  on  steel  range  bright,  wipe  with 
a  cloth  wrung  out  of  clean  soapsuds,  then  rub  with  a  soft  dry  cloth 
and  it  will  shine  as  new,  but  must  be  repeated  once  or  twice  a  month 
at  least.    Do  not  scour  nickel. — Sister  L.  damn,  Hicksville,  Wash. 

A  TABLE  OF  MEASURES. 

Sixty  drops  make  a  tablespoon. 
Three  teaspoons  equal  one  tablespoon. 

Eight  rounded  tablespoons  of  dry  material  equal  one  cupful. 

Sixteen  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  equal  one  cupful. 

One  cup  of  liquid  is  half  a  pint. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  is  one  ounce. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  butter  is  two  ounces. 

One  cup  butter  or  sugar  is  half  a  pound. 

Two  cups  of  flour  is  a  pound. 

One  cup  of  rice  is  half  a  pound. 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal  is  six  ounces. 

One  cup  bread  crumbs  is  two  ounces. 

One  pint  of  ordinary  liquid  is  one  pound. 


m   t  ?8! 3 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


0  014  489  251  3  | 


