Historic,  archived  document 


Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


I  L  IB- 


CULTURAL  EXPERIM 

HONOLULU,  HAWAII 

Under  the  joint  super  vision  of  the 
UNIVERSITY  OP  HAWAII 
AND  THE 

UNITED  STATES   DEPARTMENT   OF  AGRICULTURE 


BULLETIN  NO.  68 


JAPANESE  FOODS  COMMONLY 
USED  IN  HAWAII 

By 

CAREY  D.  MILLER,  Specialist  in  Nutrition 


UNIVERSITY  OF  HAWAII 
Honolulu,  T.  H. 


HAWAII  AGRICULTURAL  EXPERIMENT  STATION 

HONOLULU,  HAWAII 

(Under  the  joint  supervision  of  the  University  of  Hawaii,  and  the  Office  of 
Experiment  Stations,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture.) 

D.  L.  Crawford, 
President,  University  of  Hawaii 

James  T.  Jardine, 
Chief ,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations 


STATION  STAFF 

J.  M.  Westgate,  Director. 

C.  P.  Wilsie,  Agronomist.  - 

L.  A.  Henke,  Annimal  Husbandman. 

J.  C.  Ripperton,  Chemist. 

Mrs.  Leonora  Neuffer  Bilger,  Collaborator  in  Chemist  Research. 

W.  T.  Pope,  Horticulturist. 

Carey  D.  Miller,  Specialist  in  Nutrition. 

C.  M.  Bice,  Poultry  Husbandman. 

H.  A.  Wadsworth,  Irrigation  Engineer  and  Collaborator  in  Soil  Physics. 
O.  N.  Allen,  Collaborator  in  Bacteriology  and  Plant  Pailwlogy. 
Mrs.  Ethel  K.  Allen,  Collaborator  in  Histology  and  Bacteriology. 

D.  W.  Edwards,  Junior  Chemist. 

Ruth  C.  Robins,  Assistant  in  Nutrition  Investigations. 

John  Castro,  Plant  Propagator. 

M.  Takahashi,  Assistant  in  Agronomy. 

G.  W.  H.  Goo,  Assistant  in  Animal  Husbandry. 
W.  B.  Storey,  Student  Assistant  in  Horticulture. 

haleakala  substation 

H.  F.  Willey,  Superintendent,  Makawao,  Island  of  Maui. 

KONA  SUBSTATION 

R.  K.  Pahau,  Superintendent,  Kealakekua,  Island  of  Hawaii. 

< 


HAWAII  AGRICULTURAL  EXPERIMENT  STATION 

HONOLULU,  HAWAII 


Under  the  joint  supervision  of  the 
UNITED   STATES  DEPARTMENT  OP  AGRICULTURE 
AND  THE   UNIVERSITY  OP  HAWAII 


BULLETIN  NO.  68 


Honolulu,  Hawaii  November,  1933 


JAPANESE  FOODS  COMMONLY 
USED  IN  HAWAII 

By 

CAREY  D.  MILLER,  Specialist  in  Nutrition 1 


INTRODUCTION 

The  purpose  of  this  bulletin  is  to  give  brief  scientific  and  practical 
information  regarding  some  Japanese  foods  commonly  used  in  Hawaii. 
It  is  hoped  that  these  data  may  be  of  value  to  teachers,  dietitians,  ex- 
tension workers,  and  others  who  are  interested  in  the  nutritive  value  of 
foods  used  in  the  islands.  The  bulletin  also  should  serve  the  younger 
Japanese  as  a  source  of  information  concerning  the  preparation  and  rel- 
ative dietary  importance  of  their  racial  foods. 

A  few  carefully  selected  recipes  with  caloric  values  are  included 
with  the  idea  that  they  may  be  of  use  especially  to  hospital  dietitians 
and  to  doctors  who  may  be  interested  in  the  composition  of  food  mix- 
tures. 


1  The  author  is  indebted  to  J.  C.  Ripperton,  chemist,  and  to  D.  W.  Edwards,  junior  chemist 
jf  the  Hawaii  Agricultural  Experiment  Station,  for  analyses  of  most  of  the  local  foods  reported  upon; 
to  Mr.  Ripperton  for  photographs  from  which  the  illustrations  were  made;  to  Ruth  Robbins,  assist- 
ant in  nutrition,  for  some  of  the  analyses;  to  Kiyo  Arita,  county  extension  agent,  for  the  Japanese 
names  and  characters  and  valuable  information  on  Japanese  food  customs;  to  Moto  Machida,  Hanaye 
Shimodao,  and  Kisako  Haida  for  their  excellent  cooperation;  and  to  members  of  the  agricultural  ex- 
tension service  of  the  University  of  Hawaii  for  statistics  on  imports.  Some  analyses  have  been  taken 
from  Dr.  T.  Saiki's  exhaustive  work,  "The  Chemical  Analysis  of  Food  in  Japan"  (12)  published 
in  Japan  after  this  work  was  started. 


2 


SOYBEAN  PRODUCTS 

EDAMAME  (GREEN  SOYBEANS)2 


Ficure  1. — Edamame  or  green  soybeans 


The  Japanese  use  several  varieties  of  fresh  green  soybeans.  In 
Honolulu  whole  plants  are  purchased  from  the  vegetable  market.  The 
pods  are  removed  from  the  plants,  placed  in  boiling  salted  water,  and 
boiled  for  about  25  minutes.  They  are  then  drained  and  cooled,  and 
the  beans  are  kept  in  the  pods  until  eaten.  Often  children  eat  them 
out  of  a  bag  as  they  would  candy. 


2  The  name  of  the  food  in  Japanese  is  given  in  each  illustration. 


3 


The  fresh  green  soybeans  appear  to  be  an  excellent  food.  They  are 
good  sources  of  calcium,  phosphorus,  and  iron,  yield  a  basic  ash,  and, 
as  compared  with  other  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits,  have  a  remarkably 
high  protein  content.  Vitamin  tests  in  progress  at  the  nutrition  labor- 
atory of  the  Hawaii  Agricultural  Experiment  Station  show  that  the 
cooked  beans  are  very  good  sources  of  vitamins  A,  B,  and  G.  The  more 
general  use  of  green  soybeans  should  be  encouraged  in  the  home,  and 
their  consumption  may  be  increased  by  selling  them  in  school  cafeterias. 

TOFU  (SOYBEAN  CURD) 

Tofu,  or  soybean  curd,  is  a  white  cheeselike  product  manufactured 
from  soybeans.  The  common  method  of  manufacture  in  Hawaii  is  as 
follows : 

The  soybeans  are  soaked  in  water  for  about  8  hours  and  then  crushed 
between  millstones  until  of  a  uniform  consistency,  the  mass  being  mixed 
with  about  3  times  its  volume  of  water  during  the  grinding.  The  mass 
is  placed  in  a  large  container  and  heated  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
being  gradually  brought  to  the  boiling  point.  After  boiling  for  about 
3  minutes,  it  is  strained  through  a  heavy  cloth  bag.  The  residue  con- 
stitutes kirazu.  The  liquid  is  white  and  opaque,  resembling  milk,  and 
contains  more  than  30  percent  of  the  total  protein  of  the  crushed  beans. 
To  the  liquid  is  added  either  pure  calcium  chloride  or,  more  often,  a 
solution  containing  magnesium  and  calcium  sulphates  obtained  in  the 
manufacture  of  salt  from  sea  water  in  Japan.  The  protein  material 
is  thus  precipitated  in  combination  with  calcium  and  magnesium  salts 
as  a  flocculent  curd,  and  is  molded  in  a  wooden  frame  lined  with  cloth, 
through  which  the  liquid  is  drained  off.  The  curd  is  subjected  to  pres- 
sure for  about  half  an  hour.  It  is  then  removed  from  the  frame,  usually 
cut  in  3  to        inch  cubes,  and  placed  in  large  receptacles  of  clear  water. 

About  350  pounds  of  bean  curd  are  obtained  from  100  pounds  of 
dried  beans,  but  the  amount  may  differ  somewhat  with  the  method  of 
manufacture.  The  amount  of  curd  obtained  depends  on  the  amount  of 
water  used,  the  quality  of  the  beans,  and  the  fineness  of  grinding. 

In  making  tofu  from  soybeans  the  oriental  people  have  evolved  a 
method  of  producing  a  food  of  relatively  high  protein  content,  9  percent, 
with  little  carbohydrate  and  no  crude  fiber,  which  increases  the  coeffi- 
cient of  digestibility  of  the  protein.  The  average  coefficient  of  digesti- 
bility of  protein  of  legumes  is  only  80  percent,  whereas  the  coefficient  of 
digestibility  of  the  protein  of  tofu  in  96  percent. 

Pian  (9) 3  in  China  recently  showed  that  the  biological  value  of  the 
protein  of  tofu  is  65  percent  as  compared  with  85  percent  for  milk,  52 
percent  for  white  flour,  and  38  percent  for  navy  beans.  Tofu  con- 
tains about  one  fourth  as  much  calcium,  more  than  half  as  much  phos- 
phorus, and  8  times  as  much  iron  as  does  milk.  Soybeans  have  a  high 
calcium  and  iron  content,  but  about  half  the  calcium  remains  in  the 
kirazu  residue  and  half  comes  out  with  the  bean  milk.  More  iron  and 
phosphorus  are  removed  in  the  bean  milk  than  remain  in  the  kirazu. 


3  Italic  numbers  in  parentheses  refer  to  Literature  Cited,  p.  40. 


Figure  2.— SOYBEAN  PRODUCTS 
Top:  Kirazu  or  tofu  residue.  Left  center:  Tofu  or  soybean  curd.  Right 
center:  Tonyu  or  soybean  milk.    Bottom:  Aburage  or  fried  soybean 
curd. 


5 


The  blocks  of  tofu,  as  ordinarily  sold,  weigh  about  1  pound  and 
retail  universally  for  5  cents  each.  At  this  price  100  calories  will  cost 
approximately  1.4  cents,  so  that  tofu  may  be  considered  a  relatively 
cheap  energy  food.  What  is  more  important,  it  is  a  cheap  source  ot 
protein  of  high  digestibility  and  comparatively  high  biological  value. 
Bread  at  10  cents  a  pound  is  twice  as  expensive  as  a  source  of  protein 
and  less  completely  digested.  The  relatively  cheap  cuts  of  meat  and 
fish  are  at  least  twice  as  expensive  sources  of  protein  as  is  tofu.  Only 
rice  and  legumes  are  as  cheap  sources  of  protein  as  is  tofu.  The  use  of 
tofu  should  be  encouraged  from  both  nutritional  and  economic  stand- 
points. 

Wan  (16,  p.  360),  in  recent  investigations  in  China,  found  that  bean 
milk  is  richer  in  vitamin  B,  but  lower  in  vitamin  A,  than  is  cow's  milk. 
Shimoda  and  his  coworkers  (14,  p.  350),  in  previous  experiments  in 
Japan,  however,  showed  that,  whereas  the  bean  milk  contains  some 
vitamin  B,  the  tofu  made  from  it  contains  very  little.  No  data  are 
available  on  the  vitamin  A  content  of  tofu. 

Tofu  is  prepared  every  day  and  is  sold  at  the  shop  where  it  is  made, 
or  is  delivered  to  small  food  shops  or  homes  by  push  cart  or  by  automo- 
bile. During  delivery  and  in  the  home  tofu  is  kept  in  cold  water  to  pre- 
vent the  cubes  from  breaking.  Since  tofu  cannot  be  kept  fresh  without 
refrigeration  for  more  than  a  day,  it  is  usually  consumed  on  the  day 
of  purchase.  Tofu  may  be  used  as  often  as  every  other  day  by  Japanese 
families  using  Japanese  foods.  It  may  be  eaten  in  the  fresh  state  with 
shoyu,  or  it  may  be  used  in  soup,  or  cooked  with  meat,  fish,  or  vegetables 
in  a  variety  of  dishes.  When  it  is  to  be  kept  without  refrigeration,  tofu 
may  be  placed  in  boiling  water  and  boiled  for  a  few!  minutes,  or  it  may 
be  cut  in  slices  about  one  half  inch  thick  and  fried  in  fat  for  use  in  any 
dish  desired  the  following  day. 

KIRAZU  (TOFU  RESIDUE) 

Kirazu,  or  the  residue  of  the  soybeans  left  when  tofu  is  made,  has 
a  crude  fiber  content  of  3  to  4  percent,  contains  4  to  5  percent  of  the 
protein  of  the  beans,  more  than  1  percent  of  fat,  and  5  to  6  percent  of 
carbohydrate. 

Only  a  small  part  of  kirazu  is  used  for  human  food  in  Hawaii,  by 
far  the  greater  part  being  used  as  hog  feed.  Kirazu,  however,  is  a 
utilizable,  inexpensive  food  and  might  be  more  generally  used  than  it  is. 
One  cup,  or  about  171  grams,  of  kirazu  will  yield  100  calories.  The 
calcium,  phosphorus,  and  iron  content  is  relatively  high,  but  the  vitamin 
content  is  undoubtedly  low.  Kirazu  is  used  in  combination  with  vege- 
tables, or  with  fish,  or  dried  shrimp,  and  seasonings. 

TONYU  (SOYBEAN  "MILK") 

The  milky  liquid  obtained  by  grinding  soybeans  with  water  and  heat- 
ing and  straining  off  the  insoluble  residue  has  the  appearance  of  skim 
milk.  Early  reports  from  China  and  from  Japan  stated  that  soybean 
milk  may  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  cow's  milk  for  children,  but  Wan 


6 


(16,  p.  360),  in  more  recent  scientific  reports  from  China,  indicated 
that,  whereas  soybean  milk  is  richer  in  vitamin  B  than  is  cow's  milk, 
soybean  milk  is  lower  in  vitamin  A  and  still  lower  in  calcium  content. 
The  biological  value  of  the  protein  of  the  soybean  milk  is  not  comparable 
with  that  of  the  protein  of  cow's  milk.  Chemical  analyses  of  local  soy- 
bean milk  obtained  from  the  tofu-manufacturing  shops  showed  it  to 
be  low  in  fat  and  in  carbohydrates.  Chang  and  Tso  (3,  p.  199)  demon- 
strated that,  When  properly  supplemented  with  the  necessary  minerals, 
vitamins,  fat,  and  carbohydrates,  soybean  milk  can  be  used  successfully 
for  infant  feeding  where  cow's  milk  is  not  available  or  where  the  infant 
is  anaphylatic  to  the  protein  of  cow's  milk.  In  Hawaii  there  is  no  need 
to  use  soybean  milk  as  a  substitute  for  cow's  milk  and,  considering  its 
dietary  qualities,  it  should  not  be  so  used  without  the  needed  supplements. 

ABURAGE  (FRIED  SOYBEAN  CURD) 

Aburage  is  prepared  in  Hawaii  as  follows:  Yellow  soybeans  are 
ground  with  water  as  in  making  tofu  (see  page  3).  Half  the  mass 
is  cooked  as  described  for  tofu  and  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
uncooked  ground  soybeans.  The  bean  milk  is  strained  off  and  the 
protein  precipitated  as  for  tofu.  This  precipitated  protein  has  the  ap- 
pearance of  tofu,  but  after  being  cooked  becomes  light  in  texture, 
whereas  tofu  would  not  be  light.  The  curd  is  cut  in  triangles  and  fried 
a  light  brown,  usually  in  rapeseed  oil. 

Aburage  is  made  at  tofu-manufacturing  shops,  and,  as  commonly 
prepared,  will  keep  without  refrigeration  for  2  days.  It  is  widely  used 
by  Japanese  usually  combined  with  konnyaku  and  fresh  vegetables  and 
cooked  in  shoyu.  Aburage  is  often  cut  to  form  a  small  cornucopia  and 
cooked  for  about  15  minutes  in  a  mixture  of  shoyu,  sugar,  and  dried 
shrimp  to  impart  flavor  to  the  aburage.  The  cornucopia  is  filled  with 
a  mixture  of  rice,  seasoned  with  salt  and  with  vinegar,  and  vegetables 
and  fish. 

When  it  is  cooked  in  oil  the  curd  loses  water  and  absorbs  the  oil, 
and  the  resulting  food  contains  more  than  20  percent  of  protein  and  fat. 
Only  34  grams,  or  1^  triangles  of  aburage,  are  necessary  to  yield  100 
calories.  This  food  is  not  so  highly  recommended  as  tofu,  because  the 
protein  is  greatly  toughened  by  frying,  and  digestibility  is  doubtless 
lessened.  The  product  is  somewhat  like  the  white  of  an  egg  which 
has  been  browned  in  deep  fat.  The  vitamin  content  is  probably 
negligible,  but  analyses  made  in  Japan  (see  Appendix)  indicate  a  high 
calcium,  phosphorus,  and  iron  content. 

MISO  (FERMENTED  RICE  AND  SOYBEANS) 

Miso,  a  favorite  food  of  the  Japanese,  is  made  from  koji  (see  page  9) 
and  soybeans.  In  1930,  some  308,104  pounds  of  miso,  valued  at  $20,- 
504,  were  imported  into  Honolulu  from  Japan.  Several  establishments 
in  Honolulu  manufacture  miso.  The  common  method  of  manufacture 
in  Hawaii  is  as  follows : 

Yellow  soybeans  are  soaked  overnight,  cooked  for  4  hours,  then 
cooled,  mixed  with  proper  amounts  of  koji  (fermented  rice)  and  salt. 


7 


and  ground.  The  resultant  sticky  mass  is  stored  in  huge  wooden  vats 
and  left  to  ferment  for*  about  2  months.  The  koji  contains  enzymes  of 
Aspergillus  orysae  which  convert  the  starch  and  the  protein  of  the  soy- 
beans into  such  soluble  substances  as  maltose  and  proteoses. 

In  the  commercial  preparation  of  miso  in  Hawaii  2,200  pounds  of 
koji,  700  pounds  of  dried  soybeans,  and  300  pounds  of  salt  are  used  with 
water  to  produce  about  4,000  pounds  of  the  finished  product. 

Barley  may  be  substituted  for  rice  in  making  koji,  but  so  far  as  is 
known  this  is  not  done  in  Hawaii.  Some  red  miso  imported  from 
Japan  contain  koji  made  from  barley. 

Miso  may  be  used  alone  or  in  a  variety  of  dishes.  It  is  widely  and 
commonly  used  in  the  pickling  of  such  vegetables  as  eggplant,  cucum- 
bers, daikon,  (Raphanus  sativus  longipimtatus)  and  the  oriental  pickling 


Figure  3. — Miso  or  fermented  rice  and- soybeans. 


melon  (Cucumis  melo  var.  conomon) .  Most  of  the  Japanese  families 
in  Hawaii  who  continue  to  eat  Japanese  foods  use  miso  every  day, 
usually  in  the  form  of  soup  for  breakfast. 

As  a  result  of  grinding  and  mixing,  and  of  enzymic  action  on  the 
carbohydrates  and  the  protein,  part  of  the  miso  is  soluble  in  water. 
Most  of  the  rest  readily  forms  a  suspension  so  that  when  it  is  ground 
in  a  suribachi,  mixed  with  water,  and  passed  through  a  sieve,  the  residue 
consists  only  of  a  few  coarse  particles. 

Miso  has  a  rather  high  nutritive  value,  only  65  grams,  or  3^4 
tablespoons,  of  the  local  product  being  required  to  yield  100  calories. 
Since  miso  costs  less  than  \y2  cents  per  100  calories,  it  may  be  con- 
sidered a  relatively  cheap  food.  It  is  not  so  good  a  source  of  calcium, 
phosphorus,  and  iron  as  are  the  soybeans,  because  koji  made  from 
polished  rice  constitutes  almost  half  the  mixture.  Nevertheless,  miso 
is  a  better  source  of  iron  per  unit  of  weight  than  are  many  green  veg- 
etables. Saiki  (11,  p.  294)  reports  that  miso  contains  no  appreciable 
amount  of  any  of  the  vitamins. 


8 


NATTO  (FERMENTED  SOYBEANS) 

In  Honolulu,  natto  is  made  as  follows :  Soybeans  are  washed  and 
cooked,  without  being  soaked,  in  a  large  iron  kettle  (kama)  for  about  8 
hours.  The  beans  are  thoroughly  drained  and  placed  on  paper  plates  cov- 
ered with  waxed  paper.  The  plates  are  stacked  one  above  another  in  large 
wooden  boxes,  covered  with  rice-straw  mats,  and  kept  at  a  temperature  of 
approximately  30°  C.  for  35  to  36  hours,  when  the  product  is  ready  for 
use.  By  this  time  the  soybeans  have  changed  from  yellow  to  dark  brown, 
and  have  shrunk  to  about  half  the  size  of  the  freshly  cooked  beans. 
The  fermented  product  is  covered  with  a  gray,  slimy  substance  that 
forms  strings  or  threads  when  the  beans  are  pulled  apart,  indicating 


Figure  4. — Natto  or  fermented  soybeans. 


good  quality.  Natto  has  a  peculiar  characteristic  odor,  probably  due  tc 
changes  in  the  protein  resutling  from  enzymic  action. 

Although  no  molds  or  yeasts  are  added  to  the  cooked  soybeans,  O.  N. 
Allen,  of  the  botany  department  of  the  University  of  Hawaii,  who  ex- 
amined several  samples  of  fresh  natto  from  Honolulu,  found  2  molds, 
4  bacteria,  and  an  aspergillus  present.  The  enzymes  of  some  of  these 
organisms  probably  cause  the  conversion  of  a  small  part  of  the  protein 
to  simpler  substances.  Piper  and  Morse  (10,  p.  244)  in  1923  reported 
finding  peptones  and  several  amino  acids  in  the  fermented  product. 

Natto  is  a  rather  concentrated  food,  only  58  grams,  or  one  third  cup, 
yielding  100  calories.  It  is  a  very  good  source  of  calcium,  phosphorus, 
and  iron.  Saiki  (11,  p.  291)  reported  natto  to  contain  only  a  small 
amount  of  vitamin  B. 

Japanese  coming  from  the  southern  part  of  Honshu  and  from  the 
western  part  of  Kiushu  consider  natto  to  be  extremely  unpalatable; 
hence  its  use  has  not  spread  to  these  regions.  Natto  is  frequently  used 
in  some  Japanese  homes,  being  usually  eaten  with  rice  by  mixing  the 
natto  with  some  salt  and  allowing  the  mixture  to  stand  for  30  minutes 
or  longer,  or  by  mixing  with  grated  vegetables  such  as  daikon  seasoned 
with  shoyu.  Natto  is  also  ground  and  made  into  soup  with  or  without 
the  addition  of  leafy  vegetables,  miso,  and  bonito. 


9 


SHOYU  (SOYBEAN  SAUCE) 

Shoyu,  or  soy  sauce,  is  a  clear,  brown  liquid  used  as  an  essential 
condiment  in  Japanese  cookery.  It  has  a  pleasant  aromatic  odor,  and 
a  peculiar  taste.  Shoyu  contains  considerable  sodium  chloride  and  dishes 
in  which  it  is  used  require  no  additional  salt. 

The  method  of  manufacture  is  given  in  detail  by  Piper  and  Morse 
(10,  p.  250)  and  by  Oshima  (8,  p.  31),  and  only  briefly  here.  In  Ha- 
waii soybeans  are  cooked  as  described  for  natto,  and  after  having  cooled 
are  added  to  wheat  or  to  barley  that  has  been  roasted  and  coarsely 
ground.  To  this  mixture  is  added  what  the  Hawaiian  manufacturers 
call  "shoyu  yeast,"  which  probably  consists  essentially  of  spores  of 
Aspergillus  oryzae,  but  does  not  resemble  in  appearance  the  product 
used  in  the  making  of  koji  from  rice.  (See  below.)  The  mass  is  then 
placed  on  small  trays  and  left  in  a  warm  room  for  2  days  to  promote 
the  growth  of  the  fungus,  the  enzymes  of  which  act  on  the  carbohydrate 
and  the  protein.  The  mass  is  then  transferred  to  large  vats,  mixed  with 
salted  water,  and  allowed  to  stand  for  6  months  or  longer,  being  stirred 
daily.  Usually  it  is  thought  that  the  longer  the  period  of  fermentation 
the  finer  the  quality  of  the  shoyu.  Oshima  (8,  p.  32)  reported  that  in 
Japan  shoyu  is  allowed  to  ferment  for  as  long  as  5  years,  but  in  Ha- 
waii the  process  is  usually  not  longer  than  6  months.  When  the  fer- 
mentation process  is  completed  the  mixture  is  taken  from  the  vats  and 
placed  in  bags,  and  the  liquid  is  expressed  under  pressure.  The  liquid 
constituting  the  shoyu  is  boiled  enough  to  sterilize  it  and  then  put  in 
barrels  or  in  bottles  for  the  market. 

KOJI  (FERMENTED  RICE) 

Koji,  or  fermented  rice,  is  one  of  the  principal  ingredients  of  miso, 
and  is  also  used  in  preparing  vinegar  and  shoyu,  in  pickling  vegetables, 
and  in  making  alcoholic  beverages.  Koji  is  usually  prepared  in  Hawaii 
as  follows : 

Several  hundred  pounds  of  rice  are  cooked  by  forcing  steam  into  a 
large  wooden  tub  containing  the  rice.  The  steamed  rice  is  not  sticky, 
the  mass  seems  to  be  only  slightly  moist,  and  each  grain  retains  its 
shape.  The  cooked  rice  is  spread  on  mats  and  cooled  to  approximately 
30°  C.  Dry  spores  of  Aspergillus  oryzae,  obtained  in  tins  from  Japan, 
are  then  mixed  with  the  rice.  It  is  placed  in  large  wooden  boxes,  each 
containing  several  hundred  pounds,  and.  kept  in  a  warm  room  for  15 
hours.  The  temperature  of  the  rice  varies  from  33°  to  42°.  The 
temperature  of  the  mixture  rises  as  the  enzymic  action  increases  so  that 
at  the  end  of  15  hours  it  is  necessary  to  shift  the  rice  on  to  small  trays, 
each  of  which  holds  about  5  pounds.  Here  it  is  left  for  another  15  hours. 
At  the  end  of  this  period  the  rice  is  spread  on  large  trays  made  by  placing 
mats  over  wire,  and  allowed  to  stand  until  it  is  dry  and  enzymic  action 
is  arrested.  Koji  is  sold  as  such  or  is  used  in  making  other  food  pro- 
ducts. 

Aspergillus  oryzae  contains  a  great  many  enzymes,  such  as  diastase, 
invertase,  lactase,  lipase,  maltase,  protease,  amidase,  and  less  common 


10 


Figure  5. — Koji  or  fermented  rice. 


enzymes.  As  a  result  of  the  action  of  some  of  these  enzymes  the 
koji  has  a  sweet  taste,  owing  to  the  formation  of  sugars  from  part  of  the 
starch. 

Inasmuch  as  koji  is  made  from  polished  rice,  its  food  value  is  prac- 
tically the  same  as  that  of  rice,  except  for  soluble  carbohydrates.  Koji 
is  low  in  minerals  and  in  vitamins. 

KONNYAKU 

Konnyaku  flour  is  made  from  the  tuber  of  Amor pho phallus  konjac 
and  is  imported  into  Hawaii  from  Japan.  Konnyaku  is  usually  made 
in  Hawaii  as  follows  : 

Into  2  pounds  of  konnyaku  flour  7  to  8  gallons  of  water  are  gradually 
stirred  until  the  mass  becomes  soft,  uniform,  and  gelatinous  and  has 
the  consistency  of  about  2  finger  poi.  After  15  minutes  the  mass  is 
stirred  again,  and  allowed  to  stand  until  limewater,  made  by  thoroughly 
mixing  approximately  1  to  \y2  cups  of  lime  with  about  2  quarts  of 
water,  is  added.  The  limewater  is  passed  through  a  bamboo  strainer  and 
added  slowly  with  thorough  mixing  to  the  gelatinous  mass  until  the 
latter  thickens.  The  mass  is  then  poured  out  on  trays  and  after  setting 
is  cut  in  4-inch  squares  about  three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick  and  boiled 
in  water  for  20  minutes.  It  is  allowed  to  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  was 
cooked,  and  if  left  in  this  water  will  keep  almost  indefinitely.  After  the 
limewater  is  added  konnyaku  may  be  pressed  through  sieves  to  form 
fine  strips  resembling  noodles.  It  is  then  boiled.  Usually  this  form  is 
used  for  hekka.4 

Konnyaku  is  commonly  eaten  by  Japanese  once  or  twice  a  week. 


4  Hekka  is  a  genera!  Japanese  term  for  dishes  made  of  meat,  such  as  beef  or  chicken,  with 
various  vegetables  seasoned  with  shoyu  and  sugar,  to  which  may  be  added  tofu,  konnyaku,  egg,  etc. 


II 


Figure  6. — Konnyaku. 


Usually,  it  is  cooked  with  shoyu,  sugar,  and  bonito,  or  With  dried  shrimp, 
and  often  it  is  combined  with  tofu  and  vegetables. 

Konnyaku  usually  contains  over  95  percent  of  water  and  therefore 
is  low  in  nutritive  value.  Oshima  (8,  p.  35)  reported  that  konnyaku 
contains  no  starch,  its  carbohydrates  (3  percent)  being  mannan.  Since 
mannans  are  not  well  utilized  by  the  body,  the  nutritive  value  of 
the  mannan  in  the  tuber  is  doubtful.  Because  of  the  lime  used  in  making 
it,  konnyaku  is  high  in  calcium.  So  far  as  it  is  known,  no  experiments 
have  been  made  to  show  how  well  the  calcium  is  utilized  by  the  body. 
Konnyaku  has  not  been  studied  for  its  vitamin  value,  and  is  not  a  likely 
source  of  any. 

In  Hawaii  three  cakes,  weighing  approximately  a  pound,  sell  for  5 
cents.  The  individual  cakes  range  in  weight  from  145  to  170  grams. 
Approximately  807  grams,  or  about  five  cakes,  will  yield  100  calories, 
assuming  that  all  the  carbohydrates  are  utilized. 

UMEBOSHI  (RED-PICKLED  PLUMS) 

Salt  pickled  plums  (Prunus  mwvne)  colored  red  are  always  found 
even  in  the  smallest  Japanese  food  stores  and  are  used  by  Japanese  espe- 
cially as  a  relish  with  rice.  Umeboshi  are  imported  from  Japan  in  rather 
large  quantities,  158,800  pounds,  valued  at  $5,460,  having  been  imported 
in  1932.  The  method  of  salting  and  curing  as  reported  from  Japan  5 
is  as  follows : 

The  green  plums  are  washed  and  placed  in  wooden  barrels  with 
water  to  cover  and  allowed  to  stand  overnight.  They  are  then  drained 
in  bamboo  baskets,  placed  in  wooden  barrels  in  alternate  layers  with 
salt  and  aka  shiso  or  perilla  (Perilla  frutescens  nankinensis) ,  and  allowed 
to  stand  for  about  3  weeks.  The  plums  and  the  perilla  are  then  re- 
moved from  the  barrel  and  spread  in  a  single  layer  on  bamboo  racks 


5  Personal  communication  from  Mrs.  Toshiyo  Kihara,  of  the  nutrition  department  of  the  home 
economics   laboratory,   Japan  Women's  University,  Tokyo. 


12 


to  dry  in  the  sun  for  2  days.  They  are  replaced  in  the  brine  for  2  days 
and  then  again  dried  in  the  sun  for  2  days.  The  drying  process  is  re- 
peated 6  or  7  times  or  until  the  surface  of  the  dried  product  becomes 
wrinkled  and  incrusted  with  fine  salt  particles.  The  plums  are  returned 
to  the  brine,  which  has  been  colored  red  by  the  perilla.  Umeboshi  are 
imported  into  Hawaii  in  this  brine  in  small  barrels.  Analyses  by  Saiki 
and  coworkers  (12,  p.  220,  221)  show  that  umeboshi  are  low  in 
nutritive  value  and  contain  a  large  amount  of  salt.  Vitamin  investi- 
gations by  Shimoda  and  coworkers  (14,  p.  354,  355)  showed  the  plums 
to  be  practically  devoid  of  vitamins  A,  B,  and  C. 


Figure  7. — Umeboshi  or  red-pickled  plums. 


A  traditional  Japanese  custom  is  to  serve,  as  a  good  omen, 
umeboshi  with  a  cup  of  tea  to  someone  about  to  make  a  journey. 
Umeboshi  and  tea  are  always  served  before  breakfast  at  the  Japanese 
New  Year.  Rice  water  or  very  soft-cooked  rice  and  umeboshi  are 
served  to  persons  who  are  not  well. 

HUKUSAI  (PICKLED  LEAF  CABBAGE) 

Chinese,  or  white-mustard  cabbage  (Brassica  chinensis) ,  is  one  of  the 
favorite  vegetables  of  the  Japanese.  It  may  be  wilted  with  a  little  hot 
oil,  and  shoyu,  vinegar,  and  sugar  may  be  used  for  seasoning,  with  or 
without  the  addition  of  a  small  quantity  of  fish,  pork,  or  shrimp. 
Chinese  cabbage  is  also  used  in  making  soup  with  pork  and  fish.  The 
cabbage  is  widely  used  in  the  pickled  state.  It  is  prepared  in  the  home 
as  follows : 

Bunches  of  cabbage  are  washed  and  placed  outdoors  to  wilt,  after 
which  layers  of  it  are  spread  in  a  shoyu  tub  or  other  container,  salt  is 
sprinkled  over  each  layer,  and  a  little  water  is  added ;  or  the  cabbage 
may  be  mixed  with  a  paste  made  of  rice  bran,  salt,  and  water,  and 
allowed  to  stand  for  2  to  7  days,  according  to  individual  taste.  Before 


13 


it  is  used  the  cabbage  should  be  washed  thoroughly  to  remove  excess 
salt  and  the  rice  bran.  It  is  then  seasoned  with  shoyu  and  eaten  with  rice. 

Results  of  investigations  in  the  nutrition  laboratory  of  the  Hawaii 
Agricultural  Experiment  Station  (18)  show  that  the  cabbage,  when 
pickled  with  salt  only,  loses  almost  50  percent  of  the  original  vitamin 
B  content,  whereas  cabbage  pickled  in  a  paste  of  salt  and  rice  bran  has 
its  vitamin  B  content  increased  to  almost  four  times  the  original  value, 


Figure  8. — Hukusai  or  pickled-leaf  cabbage. 


apparently  as  the  result  of  absorption  of  this  vitamin  by  the  plant  tissue. 
Rice  polish  or  rice  bran  therefore  should  always  be  used  in  salting  leaf 
cabbage. 

AJINOMOTO 

Ajinomoto  is  an  important  food  condiment  much  used  by  Japanese. 
According  to  Han  (6,  p.  984),  it  consists  largely  of  monosodium 
glutamate,  that  is,  the  sodium  salt  of  one  of  the  amino  acids. 

The  Japanese  chemists  Ikeda  and  Suzuki  first  patented  a  process 


14 


Figure  9. — Fresh  mustard  cabbage. 


for  making  this  product  in  Japan  in  190S.  Four  years  later  they  obtained 
a  patent  in  the  United  States.  Modifications  of  the  original  process  of 
manufacture  have  been  made  from  time  to  time  both  in  China  and  in 
Japan,  but  it  consists  essentially  in  the  hydrolysis  of  vegetable  or  of 
animal  protein  with  acid  or  alkali  to  form  amino  acids  and  salts  or 
esters  of  the  acids,  followed  by  purification  of  the  product.  In  very 
dilute  solutions  monosodium  glutamate  and  the  esters  of  the  amino  acids 
have  a  decided  meatlike  flavor. 

In  Hawaii  ajinomoto  is  sold  in  the  powdered  form  for  25  cents  an 
ounce,  and  actually  ranges  in  price  from  $3  to  $4  a  pound,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  package.  The  extent  of  the  manufacture  of  ajinomoto 
and  similar  products  is  indicated  by  the  report  by  Han  (6,  p.  984)  that 
in  1928  "the  Chinese  alone  used  $1,130,000  worth  of  this  chemical 
condiment." 


15 


Figure  10. — Katsuo-bushi  or  dried  bonito. 


KATSUO-BUSHI  (DRIED  BONITO) 

The  dried  flesh  of  bonito  (Sarda  chilensis) ,  which  may  be  bought 
in  the  form  of  either  paper  thin  flakes  or  "bonito  sticks,"  is  an  important 
food  adjunct  in  the  Japanese  dietary.  Part  of  the  product  used  locally 
is  imported  from  Japan,  and  some  "bonito  sticks"  are  made  in  Hono- 
lulu. The  product  is  prepared  by  boiling  the  fresh  bonito  in  water  and 
by  drying,  without  salt  and  with  or  without  smoking,  until  its  water 
content  is  so  low  that  it  can  be  kept  easily  without  spoiling.  Thin 
slices  are  cut  from  the  bonito  stick  as  needed,  and  like  the  flakes  may 
be  used  for  soup  stock  or  for  incorporation  into  the  food  as  such.  The 
flavor  imparted  by  bonito  to  the  various  food  mixtures  is  especially 
liked  by  Japanese.  The  food  value  is  similar  to  that  of  any  other  dried 
fish  low  in  fat,  and  supplies  protein  and  flavor  to  the  diet. 

The  price  of  bonito  varies  with  the  quality.  As  a  source  of  protein 
it  is  a  relatively  expensive  food.  The  bonito  stick  shown  in  figure 
13  cost  35  cents  and  weighed  192  grams.  Some  of  the  outside  of  the 
stick  would  have  to  be  discarded  before  it  is  used.  Only  small  quantities, 
however,  are  used  in  making  Japanese  dishes,  the  flavor  which  it  im- 
parts being  more  important  than  the  protein  it  supplies. 

IRIKO  (SMALL  DRIED  FISH) 

Three  kinds  of  small  dried  fish,  usually  called  iriko,  are  commonly 
used  by  the  Japanese  to  impart  flavor  to  food  and  to  make  soup  stock. 
The  smallest  fish,  called  chirimen-iriko,  are  approximately  three  fourths 
of  an  inch  long  and  of  creamy  white  color.    They  are  crisped  by  heat- 


16 


1 


4 


Figure  11. — Iriko  or  small  dried  fish. 

ing  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  or  softened  by  pouring  hot  water  over  them. 
They  are  eaten  with  shoyu  and  rice.  The  medium-sized  fish,  called 
chuba-iriko,  are  about  iy±  inches  long.  The  largest  fish,  called  oba- 
iriko,  are  2  to  2y2  inches  long.  The  last  two  kinds  are  of  a  silvery 
gray  color  and  are  used  for  soup  stock,  or  are  cooked  with  vegetables 
to  impart  flavor ;  the  fish  is  then  usually  discarded. 


KAISO-RUI  (SEAWEEDS) 

The  Japanese  use  many  algae  or  seaweeds  in  a  great  variety  of  pre- 
parations. .  The  seaweeds  most  commonly  used  in  Hawaii  are  kanten, 
wakame,  kombu,  and  nori,  all  of  which  are  imported  in  the  dry  state 
from  Japan.  The  percentage  composition  of  these  algae  does  not  give 
a  true  indication  of  their  nutritive  value  inasmuch  as  the  material  re- 
ported as  carbohydrate  is  not  starch  nor  any  of  the  common  food 
sugars,  nor  is  the  material  reported  as  protein  on  the  basis  of  nitrogen 
analyses,  material  that  can  be  utilized  by  the  body  to  any  extent. 

No  recent  work  on  the  digestibility  of  the  nitrogenous  and  carbohy- 
drate material  is  available,  but  Oshima  (8,  p.  199)  in  1905  reported  the 
average  coefficient  of  digestibility  for  the  carbohydrates  of  marine  algae 
used  by  the  Japanese  as  67.7  percent,  whereas  the  carbohydrates  of  rice 
have  a  digestibility  of  98  or  99  percent. 

Algae  are  largely  of  value  in  furnishing  flavor,  iodine,  and  inorganic 
salts  to  the  diet  and  in  acting  as  a  laxative.     Saiki  and  coworkers  4 
{12,  p.  224,  225)  recently  reported  that  the  commonly  used  algae  are 
excellent  sources  of  calcium,  phosphorus,  and  iron.    How  Well  these 
minerals  are  utilized  is  not  known.    In  view  of  the  poor  utilization  of 


17 


both  carbohydrates  and  nitrogen,  one  is  scarcely  justified  in  assuming 
that  the  minerals  are  well  utilized  until  they  are  proved  to  be.  Reports 
as  to  the  vitamin  content  of  seaweeds  vary  considerably.  Some  in- 
vestigators (5;  7 ;  14,  p.  350)  report  a  high  vitamin  A  content  for  green 
algae  and  a  fair  amount  of  vitamin  B.  Seaweeds  have  no  demonstrable 
quantity  of  vitamin  C. 

KOMBU. 

Kombu  is  the  general  Japanese  name  for  seaweed  preparations  made 
from  members  of  the  kelp  family  (Laminariaceae).  Twb  types  are 
commonly  used  in  Hawaii.  The  large  coarse  leaves  are  used  for  stock, 
which  is  made  by  soaking  the  leaves  in  water  and  boiling  them  tor 
several  hours.  This  stock  is  used  as  a  basis  for  soup  and  other  dishes, 
the  kombu  being  discarded.  The  smaller  fronds  are  soaked  and  cooked 
and  are  eaten  in  combination  with  vegetables,  meat,  or  fish. 

Kombu  roll  is  made  by  wrapping  kombu  around  fried  or  salted 
fish  and  cooking  the  whole  in  a  small  amount  of  water  to  which  shoyu 
is  added  before  the  cooking  is  complete.  The  kombu  is  eaten  with  the 
fish. 


Figure  12. — Kombu. 


IS 


WAKAME 

Wakame  (Undaria  pinnatifida)  is  one  of  the  favorite  algae  of  the 
Japanese  in  Hawaii.  It  is  used  in  soup  and  is  itself  eaten.  It  may  be 
soaked,  cut  in  pieces,  and  mixed  with  cucumber  and  miso-vinegar  sauce. 
Green  onions  cut  in  iy2  inch  lengths  may  be  boiled  for  a  few  minutes 
and  mixed  with  wakame  and  miso-vinegar  sauce. 


Figure  13. — Wakame. 


19 


KANTEN 

Kanten  is  prepared  from  several  kinds  of  seaweeds,  the  most  im- 
portant being  Gelidium  corneum,  from  which  the  best  grade  of  kanten 
is  made.  Kanten  is  found  on  the  market  in  the  form  of  kanten  sticks, 
1  by  1  by  10  inches,  and  is  usually  of  either  white  or  red  color.  Kanten 
is  nothing  more  than  agar-agar  in  a  relatively  pure  state.  It  is  used 
by  the  Japanese  in  preparing  a  variety  of  dishes,  including  confections, 
in  the  same  way  that  gelatin  is  used. 


Figure  14. — Kanten. 


20 


NORI 

Nori  is  a  common  general  term  for  seaweed  preparations  from 
several  species  of  Porphyra  or  laver.  The  dried  material  bought  on  the 
Hawaii  markets  is  shipped  in  from  Japan  in  bundles  of  flat  sheets 
which  are  about  7^2  by  8^4  inches  and  as  thin  and  flexible  as  tissue 
paper.  These  sheets  are  made  by  chopping  the  fronds  of  fresh  algae 
that  are  spread  upon  mats  to  dry.  The  sheets  are  then  made  into 
bundles  for  the  market.  The  purplish-red  nori  is  the  one  most  com- 
monly used  in  Hawaii,  the  green  nori  being  more  expensive. 

Nori  is  used  to  garnish  sushi,  salads,  noodles,  raw  fish,  and  eggs, 
and  is  always  eaten.  It  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  maki-sushi  by  wrap- 
ping it  around  a"  roll  of  rice  the  center  of  which  is  filled  with  thin 
strips  of  fried  eggs,  kampyo,  (p.  23)  roasted  eel,  green  vegetables, 
mushrooms,  and  the  like  (fig.  15).  Strips  of  green  nori  are  made 
crisp  by  passing  them  over  a  flame  or  over  hot  charcoal.  They  are 
eaten  with  shoyu  and  rice. 


Figure  IS. — Nori  used  for  maki-sushi. 


21 


UDON  AND  SOMEN  (JAPANESE  NOODLES) 

Japanese  noodles  are  made  of  wheat  flour  kneaded  with  salted 
water.  The  dough  is  mechanically  rolled  into  thin  sheets.  These  are 
cut  into  long,  narrow  strips,  and  dried.  The  strips  are  then  cut  in 
8-inch  lengths,  tied  in  small  bundles,  and  packed  in  boxes  for  the 
market. 

The  very  fine  noodles,  made  in  narrow  strips,  are  called  somen. 
Wide  noodles  like  those  shown  in  figure  16  are  called  udon.  The  word 
"saimen"  is  from  the  Chinese  and  is  used  by  the  Japanese  to  mean 
noodles  made  with  flour,  soda,  salt,  egg,  and  water.   The  word  "saimen" 


Figure  16. — Udon  or  Japanese  noodles. 


is  frequently  seen  on  the  signs  of  small  food  shops  and  on  wagons  from 
which  noodles  are  sold.  Noodles  made  with  water  only  have  a  food 
value  similar  to  that  of  white  flour.  About  31  grams  of  the  dry  noodles, 
or  130  grams  or  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  cooked  noodles,  will  yield  100 
calories. 

KAMABOKO  (FISH  CAKE) 

Kamaboko  is  a  general  name  for  a  food  product  made  of  fish  and 
some  other  ingredients.  Any  kind  of  fish  with  white  flesh  may  be  used 
for  the  purpose.  The  Hawaiian  swordfish,  a'u  (Xiphias  gladins),  is 
commonly  used  in  Hawaii  for  making  kamaboko,  but  the  shark  also  is 
used.  The  skin  and  the  bones  are  carefully  removed  from  the  fish. 
The  flesh  is  chopped  and  passed  through  a  meat  grinder.  After  it  is 
well  ground  a  mixture  of  cornstarch,  sugar,  salt,  and  ajinomoto  is  added 
with  enough  ice  water  to  give  the  consistency  of  thick  poi.  The  ice 
water  keeps  the  temperature  down  and  thus  prevents  the  mixture  from 
spoiling  rapidly.  It  is  then  molded  into  various  shapes  and  cooked 
by  steaming  or  by  broiling,  after  which  it  is  ready  for  the  market.  It 


may  be  molded  on  boards,  larger  pieces  on  boards  2  by  7  inches,  and 
smaller  pieces  on  boards  1*4  by  5  inches.  The  pieces  are  then  steamed 
or  broiled  for  about  15  to  20  minutes.  The  thick  mixture  is  sometimes 
pressed  around  a  small  bamboo  stick  and  cooked.  Both  this  type  and 
that  of  a  fish  cake  on  a  board  are  shown  in  figure  17.  The  surface 
of  kamaboko  often  is  artificially  colored,  especially  with  green  or  with 
pink  to  give  it  an  attractive  appearance. 

Three  establishments  in  Honolulu  manufacture  kamaboko.  One 
manufacturer  reported  that  about  4,000  pieces  of  fish  cake  are  made 
daily  in  Honolulu.    The  pieces  range  in  weight  from  3  to  8  ounces. 


Figure  17. — Kamaboko  or  fish  cake. 


Kamaboko  may  be  kept  without  refrigeration  for  3  days  and  with 
refrigeration  for  1  month.  It  may  be  eaten  either  in  the  fresh  state  or 
cooked  with  shoyu  and  sugar.  It  is  also  used:  in  salad,  soup,  Japanese 
custard,  and  vegetable  dishes.  Kamaboko,  made  in  fancy  shapes  of 
varied  colors,  is  always  used  on  such  festival  occasions  as  birthdays  and 
the  New  Year. 

In  Japan  many  persons  consider  kamaboko  to  be  a  luxury,  but  in 
Hawaii  it  is  generally  used  by  all  classes.  It  is  an  expensive  food, 
however,  109  grams  yielding  only  100  calories.  Each  of  the  two 
pieces  of  kamaboko  shown  in  figure  20  is  a  100-calorie  portion  and 
costs  10  cents.  The  food  value  is  due  largely  to  the  protein  of  the  fish 
used  in  making  it.  Obviously,  kamaboko  is  an  expensive  source  of 
protein.  Where  money  for  food  is  limited  it  would  be  unwise  to  buy 
kamaboko  when  for  the  same  expenditure  so  much  more  food  value 
could  be  obtained  from  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  and  fish. 


23 


KAMPYO  (STRIPS  OF  DRIED,  EDIBLE  GOURD) 

Kampyo  is  made  from  a  gourd  (Lagenaria  vulgaris)  by  discarding  the 
skin  and  the  seeds  and  by  cutting  the  edible  portion  into  long,  thin 
strips  that  are  dried  in  the  sun.  It  has  a  sweet  taste,  a  rather  distinctive 
flavor,  and  is  considered  essential  for  certain  favorite  dishes,  such  as 
maki-sushi.  The  composition  of  kampyo  indicates  a  high  protein  and 
carbohydrate  content,  but  the  small  quantity  ordinarily  used  makes  the 
food  value  of  slight  importance. 


Figure  18. — Kampyo  or  strips  of  dried  edible  gourd. 


24 


KINOKO  (MUSHROOMS) 

Dried  mushrooms  are  frequently  used  in  the  preparation  of  Japanese 
dishes,  but  perhaps  not  so  extensively  as  in  the  preparation  of  Chinese 
foods.  Large  quantities  of  dried  mushrooms  are  imported  from  Japan 
and  from  China,  103,518  pounds  having  been  imported  in  1930.  Several 
varieties  are  used  by  the  Japanese,  including  the  common  dried  shiitake 
(Cortinettus  shiitake),  and  matsutake  (Armittaria  matsutake)  which 
come  from  Japan  in  tins. 

•  Although  the  percentage  composition  of  dried  mushrooms  indicates 
a  high  nutritive  value,  they  are  high  in  water  and  relatively  low'  in  food 


Figure  19. — Kinoko  or  mushrooms. 


value  after  having  been  soaked  and  cooked.  Clark,  in  Atkinson's  book 
on  mushrooms  (2,  p.  292),  shows  that  the  protein  content  as  indicated 
by  multiplying  the  percentage  of  nitrogen  by  the  factor  6.25  is  mis- 
leading, because  probably  only  a  small  part  of  the  total  nitrogen  is 
utilized  by  the  body.  Smith  (15,  p.  9)  reports  vitamin  studies  by  sev- 
eral investigators  who  found  that  mushrooms  contain  some  vitamin  B, 
but  not  appreciable  amounts  of  the  other  vitamins. 

PU  (GLUTEN  CAKES) 

Fu  is  a  crackerlike  substance  of  very  light  and  delicate  texture  made 
from  wheat  gluten  and  varying  smaller  quantities  of  glutinous  rice 
flour  and  wheat  flour.  All  the  fu  used  in  Hawaii  comes  from  Japan, 
98,623  pounds,  valued  at  $17,259,  having  been  imported  in  1932. 

The  method  of  making  fu  as  reported  from  Japan  6  is  as  follows : 
Raw  fu  is  made  by  mixing  wheat  flour  with  a  weak  salt  solution  to 


6  Personal  communication  from  Mrs.  Toshiyo  Kihara,  of  the  nutrition  department  of  the  home 
economics  laboratory,  Japan  Women's  University,  Tokyo. 


25 


form  a  dough,  and  then  washing  out  the  starch,  leaving  a  sticky  mass 
of  wheat  protein.  To  100  parts  by  weight  of  raw  fu,  10  to  15  parts  of 
glutinous  rice  flour  and  30  to  100  parts  of  wheat  flour  are  mixed  ac- 
cording to  the  variety  of  fu  desired.  It  is  molded  into  a  variety  of 
shapes  characteristic  of  the  different  kinds  of  fu,  and  is  baked  in  an 
oven  for  15  minutes.  Sometimes  a  seaweed  like  nori  is  folded  into  the 
fu.  (figure  20) . 

Some  of  the  varieties  of  fu  are  kuruma  (wheat),  kiri  (sliced), 
giyanome  (dragon's  eye),  and  chiyomei  (longevity).  Kingyo  fu  is  a 
common  goldfish  food. 


Figure  20. — Fu  or  gluten  cakes. 


Fu  varies  in  composition  according  to  the  amount  of  other  flours 
added  to  the  wheat  gluten,  but  the  average  composition  given  in  table  1 
(Appendix)  shows  it  to  be  high  in  protein,  over  30  percent,  as  compared 
with  most  other  kinds  of  crackers  and  cakes.  Fu  is  low  in  minerals 
and  has  no  vitamins.  It  is  so  light  in  weight  as  to  require  the  use  of 
28  grams,  or  25  pieces  like  those  shown  in  figure  23,  to  yield  100  calories. 
Before  it  is  used,  fu  is  always  soaked  in  water  and  the  water  squeezed 
out  by  hand.  After  the  soaking  and  squeezing  process,  fu  may  be  added 
to  hot  miso  soup  or  to  cooked  vegetables. 

GrOMA  (SESAME  SEEDS) 

Sesame  seeds  are  much  prized  for  the  flavor  they  impart  to  food. 
Both  the  black  and  the  white  seeds,  called,  respectively,  kurogoma  and 
shirogoma,  are  used.  They  have  essentially  the  same  composition, 
random  samples  of  each  varying  in  their  carbohydrate  and  fat  content. 
Saiki  and  coworkers  (12,  p.  230,  231)  give  the  composition  of  four 
samples  that  range  from  43  to  54  percent  in  their  fat  content.  They 


26 


have  a  high  caloric  value,  but  ordinarily  are  used  in  such  small  quanti- 
ties as  not  to  add  greatly  to  the  energy  value  of  the  foods  with  which 
they  are  combined. 

Saiki's  analyses  (12)  of  whole  sesame  seeds  show  the  amounts 
of  calcium,  phosphorus,  and  iron  to  be  very  high  compared  with  other 
foods.  If  the  body  utilizes  well  the  minerals  of  sesame  seeds,  they 
should  be  excellent  sources  of  these  three  minerals,  especially  calcium. 


Figure  21. — Goma  or  sesame  seeds. 


Before  being  combined  with  food  the  seeds  are  always  roasted  by 
being  stirred  in  a  frying  pan  or  in  a  kettle  over  a  fire  for  a  few  minutes. 
Their  uses  are  many.  They  may  be  combined  with  salt  and  sprinkled 
over  rice ;  or  they  may  be  ground  with  sugar  and  shoyu  and  eaten  with 
pounded  rice  cake  (mochi).  They  are  added  to  miso  sauce,  fried 
miso,  pickled  vegetables,  candies,  shirai,  and  in  a  shoyu-vihegar  sauce  are 
added  to  vegetables. 

OILS  USED  IN  COOKING 

The  common  food  oils  used  by  the  Japanese  are  rapeseed  oil  and 
sesame-seed  oil.  Peanut  oil  is  used  less  extensively.  Rapeseed  oil  sells 
in  Honolulu  for  about  the  same  price  as  does  refined  cottonseed  oil. 
Sesame-seed  oil  is  somewhat  higher  in  price.  Like  all  highly  refined 
vegetable  oils,  they  are  practically,  if  not  completely,  devoid  of  vitamins. 


27 


RECIPES  7 

The  following  recipes  are  typical  of  those  used  by  the  Japanese  in 
Hawaii.  Included  also  are  recipes  for  miso  soup  made  with  milk  in 
the  hope  that  this  will  be  a  means  of  introducing  milk  into  the  dietary 
of  persons  who  do  not  take  milk  in  the  usual  forms.  The  flavor  of 
miso  soup  made  with  milk  is  similar  to  that  made  with  bonito  or  with 
kombu  stock. 

The  cooking  utensils  shown  in  figure  25  are  found  in  every  Japanese 
kitchen. 


Figure  25. — Japanese  kitchen  utensils;  1,  Suribachi  (bowl  with  corrugations  and 
wooden  pestle  for  grinding  miso)  ;  2,  su  (bamboo  mat  for  making 
maki-sushi)  ;  3,  hocho  (knife);  4,  shiyamoji  (wooden  paddle  used  for 
mixing);  5,  zaru  (bamboo  strainer);  6,  hashi  (chopsticks). 

7  For  information  regarding  some  of  the  vegetables  mentioned  in  the  following  recipes,  the 
reader  is  referred  to  the  bulletin  of  Chung  and  Ripperton  (4).  The  data  on  composition  of  foods 
used  for  calculating  the  caloric  value  of  the  ingredients  have  been  taken  from  table  1  and  from  the 
references  listed  under  Literature  Cited  (page  40),  with  the  exception  of  some  common  foods  as 
lemons,  carrots,  string  beans,  sugar,  and  fat,  which  have  been  taken  from  Sherman's  Food  Pro- 
ducts (13). 


28 


MISO  SOUP  WITH  TOFU 

The  ingredients  required  for  miso  soup  with  tofu  are  iriko,  water, 
miso,  tofu,  and  green  onions. 

Wash  the  iriko,  add  the  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  for  15  minutes.  Discard  the  iriko.  Put  the  miso  in  a  bamboo 
strainer,  add  iriko  stock  a  little  at  a  time,  and  stir  until  all  the  miso  is 
pressed  out.  Cut  tofu  in  half-inch  cubes  and  add  to  the  stock.  Grad- 
ually bring  to  the  boiling  point,  then  remove  from  the  fire.  Add  finely 
chopped  green  onions  and  serve.  Since  prolonged  heating  destroys  the 
mild  flavor  of  miso,  all  dishes  containing  it  should  be  cooked  only  long 
enough  to  bring  them  to  the  boiling  point. 


Table  2. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  miso  soup  with  tofu  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Distribution  of 

calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Curs 

Irikol  

1  cup 

6  cups 
%  cup 
%  cube 
%  cup 

7%  cups 

60 

2.1 

Water  

Miso  

210 

7.4 
13.7 
1.1 

325 
307 
7 

"N  55 
140 
2 

35 
142 
1 

235 
25 
4 

Tofu  

390 

30' 

Green  onions  ; 

Product  

715 

60.6 

639 

197 

178 

264 

270 

9.5 

IV* 

 1 

1  For  soup  stock  only. 


MISO  SOUP  WITH  WAKAME 

The  ingredients  required  for  miso  soup  with  wakame  are  iriko,  water, 
miso,  and  wakame. 

Prepare  stock  from  iriko  and  add  miso,  as  in  former  recipe.  Cover 
the  wakame  with  water,  soak  for  10  minutes,  remove  it  from  water 
and  cut  in  l-inch  lengths.  Add  the  wakame  to  the  stock,  bring  grad- 
ually to  the  boiling  point,  boil  for  3  to  5  minutes,  then  remove  from  the 
fire. 


Table  3. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  miso  soup  with  wakame  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Iriko  1  

Cups 
1 

6 

% 
% 
6% 

Grams 
60 

Ounces 
2.1 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Water  

Miso  

210 
12 
1,224 

7.4 
.4 
43.0 

325 
27 
352 

55 
5 
60 

35 
2 
37 

235 
20 
255 

Wakame  

Product  

346 

12.2 

1% 

1  For  soup  stock  only. 


29 


MISO  SOUP  WITH  DAIKON 

The  ingredients  required  for  miso  soup  with  daikon  are  iriko,  water, 
miso,  daikon,  and  green  onions. 

Prepare  soup  stock  from  iriko  and  add  miso  as  in  the  recipe  for 
miso  soup  with  tofu  (page  28).  Cut  the  daikon  in  very  thin  strips  2 
inches  long,  and  add  them  to  the  stock.  Bring  the  stock  gradually  to 
the  boiling  point  and  simmer  gently  until  the  daikon  is  tender.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  finely  cut  green  onions,  and  serve.  The  daikon  may 
be  grated  and  added  to  the  boiling  stock  and  the  whole  immediately 
removed  from  the  fire. 


Table  4. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  miso  soup  with  daikon  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 

yielding 

100 
calories 

Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Cups 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Iriko  1  

1  cup 
6  cups 

%  cups 

2  cups 

3  tablespoons 
5  x/z  cups 

Grams 
60 

Ounces 
2.1 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Water  

Miso  

210 
270 
21 
1,164 

7.4 
9.5 
.7 
41.0 

325 
30 
4 

359 

55 
6 
1 

62 

35 
7 
1 

43 

235 
17 
2 

254 

Daikon  

Green  onions 
Product  

324 

11.4 

1% 

1  For  soup  stock  only. 


MISO  SOUP  WITH  MILK 

The  ingredients  required  for  miso  soup  with  milk  are  miso,  milk, 
and  tender  tips  of  watercress. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  add  to  miso,  and  put  through  a 
strainer.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  watercress  and  let  it  stand  for 
1  minute ;  then  drain  and  add  to  the  milk  and  miso  mixture.  Serve. 

The  milk  and  miso  mixture  will  curdle  if  it  is  allowed  to  boil. 

Evaporated  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  fresh  milk,  in  which  case 
the  water  for  dilution  may  be  stock  made  with  bonito,  kombu,  or  iriko. 
Other  vegetables  such  as  daikon,  or  wakame,  may  be  used  instead  of 
watercress,  and  tofu  may  be  added  as  directed  for  miso  soup  with  tofu 
(page  28). 

Table  5. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  miso  soup  with  milk  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

) 

Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
orie' 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Miso  

1  cup 
5  cups 
20  tips 
6%  cups 

Grams 

280 
1,150 

50 
1,500 

Ounces 

9.2 
40.5 

1.8 
50.9 

431 

796 
7 

1,234 

74 
152 
4 

230 

47 
414 

461 

310 
230 
3 

543 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Milk  

122 

Product  

4.3 

y2 

30 


TOFU  SOUP  WITH  LEMON 

The  ingredients  required  for  tofu  soup  with  lemon  are  fish  (aku, 
opakapaka,  or  any  fresh  fish),  water,  watercress,  lemon  juice,  lemon 
rind,  salt,  and  tofu. 

Cut  the  fish  in  half -inch  cubes,  place  them  in  boiling  salted  water 
and  boil  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Add  finely  cut  watercress,  lemon  juice, 
lemon  rind,  and  tofu  cut  in  half-inch  cubes.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  serve. 


Table  6. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  tofu  soup  'with  lemon  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

Meas- 
ure 
tor 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Fish  

1  *4  cups 
5  *4  cups 
3  lA  cups 

1  y±  teaspoons 
J>4  lemon 

2  ^  teaspoons 
1  cube 

6y2  cups 

Grams 

178 

115 
12 
10 

425 
1,900 

Uunces 

6.3 

4.1 
.4 

.3 

216 

16 
5 

132 

9 

84 
1 

"is 

5 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Water  

Watercress  

Lemon  juice  

Lemon  rind  

Salt  

Tofu  

14.8 
67.0 

335 
572 

153 
294 

155 
240 

27 
38 

Product  

332 

11.7 

iy8 

TOFU  SHOYU  SOUP 
The  ingredients  required  for  tofu  shoyu  soup  are  bonito,  water,  tofu, 
shoyu,  salt,  and  green  onions. 

Add  water  to  the  bonito,  let  simmer  gently  for  15  minutes,  strain, 
and  discard  the  bonito.  Add  y2  inch  cubes  of  tofu,  and  shoyu  and  salt 
to  the  stock  .  Bring  it  to  the  boiling  point,  add  finely  cut  green  onions, 
and  serve  hot. 


Table  7. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  tofu  shoyu  soup  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 

Ingredients 

ure 

Measure 

Wt. 

for 

Weight 

Total 

Car- 

yielding 

100 

calor- 

Pro- 

bohy- 

100 

cal- 

ies 

tein 

Fat 

drate 

calories 

ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

1  cup 

16 

0.6 

Water  

6  ^4  cups 

Tofu  

1  cube 

425 

14.8 

334 

153 

155 

26 

%  cup 

140 

5.0 

71 

43 

28 

Salt  

teaspoon 

Green  onions  

1  %  cups 

100 

3.5 

23 

6 

4 

13 

Product  

7%  cups 

1,700 

59.9 

428 

202 

159 

67 

398 

14.1 

1% 

1  For  soup  stock  only. 


31 


STRING  BEAN  SHIRAI 

The  ingredients  required  for  string  bean  shirai  are  string  beans, 
water,  sugar,  salt,  miso,  and  tofu. 

Cut  the  string  beans  in  2-inch  lengths  and  cook  them  with  water, 
sugar,  and  salt  until  they  are  tender  and  the  water  evaporates.  Cool. 
Make  a  paste  of  miso  and  tofu  by  grinding  them  in  a  suribachi,  or  put 
them  through  a  wire  strainer  and  mix  with  the  string  beans.  The  Jap- 
anese always  serve  shirai  cold.  Some  may  prefer  to  add  the  miso  and 
tofu  paste  to  the  hot  vegetables  and  serve. 

Table  8. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  string  bean  shirai  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Cups 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

String  beans  

Water  

3  cups 

%  cup 
1  %  teaspoons 

%  teaspoon 
4^  tablespoons 

%  cube 
3  cups 

Grams 

330 

Ounces 
11.7 

137 

30 

9 

98 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Sugar..  

6 

.2 

24 

24 

Salt  

Miso  

81 
195 
498 

2.8 
6.9 
17.6 

125 
153 
439 

21 
70 
121 

13 
71 
93 

91 
12 

225 

Tofu  

113 

4.0 

Vi 

CARROT  SHIRAI 

The  ingredients  required  for  carrot  shirai  are  carrots,  water,  sugar, 
shoyu,  tofu,  and  miso. 

Cut  the  carrots  in,  long,  thin  strips,  add  water  and  sugar,  and  cook 
until  they  are  tender  and  the  water  evaporates.  Add  shoyu  and  cook 
the  whole  until  the  shoyu  is  absorbed.  Cool.  Make  a  paste  of  miso 
and  tofu  by  grinding  them  in  a  suribachi,  or  put  them  through  a  wire 
strainer  and  mix  with  the  carrots. 

The  Japanese  always  serve  shirai  cold.  Others  may  prefer  to  add 
the  miso  and  tofu  paste  to  the  hot  vegetables  and  serve. 


Table  9. — Kind,  measure,  and  iveight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  carrot  shirai  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of 

calories 

Meas- 

ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Wt. 

for 

Weight 

Total 

Car- 

yielding 

ion 

calor- 

Pro- 

bohy- 

100 

cal- 

ies 

tein 

Fat 

drate 

calories 

orics 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Ci.ps 

3  large 

342 

12.1 

154 

15 

12 

127 

Water  

%  cup 

2  tablespoons 

24 

.8 

96 

96 

3  tablespoons 

42 

1.5 

21 

13 

8 

Tofu  

%  cube 

195 

6.9 

153 

70 

71 

12 

Miso  

4%  tablespoons 

81 

2.8 

125 

21 

13 

91 

Product  

2%  cups 

555 

19.6 

549 

119 

96 

334 

100 

3.5 

32 


KONNYAKU  SHIRAI 

The  ingredients  required  for  konnyaku  shirai  are  konnyaku,  water, 
sugar,  shoyu,  tofu,  and  miso. 

Cut  the  konnyaku  in  small  strips  2  inches  long,  parboil  them  in 
water  for  5  minutes  and  drain.  Add  sugar  and  shoyu  to  the  konnyaku 
and  cook  without  covering  until  the  shoyu  is  absorbed.  Cool.  Make 
a  paste  of  miso  and  tofu  by  grinding  them  in  ja  suribachi,  or  put  them 
through  a  wire  strainer  and  mix  with  the  konnyaku.    Serve  cold. 


Table  10.- — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  konnyaku  shirai  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total  , 
calor- 
ies . 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 

yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

CU.5S 

Konnyaku  

3  cups 

570 

20.1 

71 

2 

69 

Water  

3  cups 

3  tablespoons 
3  tablespoons 

Sugar  

36 

1.3 

144 

144 

Shoyu  

42 

1.5 

21 

13 

8 

Tofu  

Miso  

%  cube 
4^2  tablespoons 
3  cups 

195 
81 

6.9 
2.8 

153 
125 

70 
21 

71 
13 

12 
91 

Product  

651 

23.0 

514 

106 

84 

324 

127 

4.5 

EGGPLANT  WITH  MISO 

The  ingredients  required  for  this  dish  are  eggplant,  fat,  water,  dried 
bonito,  miso,  and  sugar. 

Cut  the  eggplant  in  ^-inch  cubes,  add  fat  and  water,  and  cook 
with  little  or  no  stirring  until  the  vegetable  is  tender.  Press  miso 
through  a  wire  sieve,  or  rub  in  a  suribachi,  add  dried  bonito,  sugar,  and 
water  to  make  a  sauce ;  heat,  add  to  eggplant,  and  mix  lightly.  Serve 
hot  or  cold. 


Table  11. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  eggplant  with  miso  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 

yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Eggplant  

7%  cups 

645 

22.8 

144 

34 

12 

98 

1  tablespoon 

14 

.5 

126 

126 

%  cup 

.2 
7.7 

Dried  bonito  

%  cup 

%  cup 

6 
216 

18 

332 

18 
56 

36 

240 

1  y2  teaspoons 

6 

.2 

24 

24 

145 

5.1 

Product  

4  cups 

940 

33.2 

644 

108 

174 

362 

33 


GREEN  ONIONS  WITH  MISO 

The  ingredients  required  for  this  dish  are  green  onions,  miso, 
sugar,  and  vinegar. 

Put  the  onions  in  boiling  water  to  cover  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 
Drain  well.  Cut  them  in  1^-inch  lengths.  Put  miso  through  a  wire 
strainer,  or  rub  it  in  a  suribachi,  add  sugar  and  vinegar  to  form  a 
paste,  add  onions,  and  serve  cold. 


Table  12. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  green  onions  with  miso  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

wt. 
yielding 
100 
100 

for 
100 
cal- 
cal- 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Green  onions.. 

24  to  30  (with  tops) 
1  %  cups 

450 
321 

15.8 
11.4 

100 

500 

25 
85 

17 

54 

58 
361 
144 

Sugar  

3  tablespoons 

36 

1.3 

144 

Vinegar  

Product  

Vi  cup 
3  cups 

738 

26.0 

744 

110 

71 

563 

99 

3.5 

% 

FISH  CAKES  WITH  MISO 

The  ingredients  required  for  this  dish  are  fish  (aku,  opakapaka,  or 
any  other  fresh  fish),  green  onions,  miso,  and  fat. 

Chop  the  fish  with  a  knife  until  very  fine,  add  finely  cut  green 
onions,  and  chop  the  whole  again.  Add  miso  and  mix:  well.  Mold  into 
cakes  or  squares  with  the  knife  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  fat. 


Table  13. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 
calories  and  their  distribution  in  fish  cakes  with  miso  for  six  average  servngs 


Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

1 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cakes 

Fish  

1  %  cups 

327 

11.4 

268 

209 

59 

3 

181 

Green  onions.... 

Miso  

Fat  -■ 

42/£  tablespoons 

%  cup 
2  tablespoons 

23 
162 
24 

.8 
5.7 
.9 

5 

251 
216 

1 

43 

1 

27 
216 

60 

Product  

18  cakes 

441 

15.5 

740 

253 

303 

184 

2.1 

.  %  by  1  %  inches 

34 


SESAME-SEED  SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES 


Remove  foreign  matter  from  the  seeds  and  wash  and  dry  them. 
Put  them  in  a  frying  pan  or  in  a  kettle  j  heat,  and  stir  constantly  until 
the  seeds  crackle.  To  break  the  hulls  crush  the  seeds  in  a  suribachi, 
or  in  a  bowl  or  pan,  by  means  of  a  wooden  potato  masher.  Add  sugar, 
shoyu,  and  vinegar.    Mix  with  some  vegetable  and  serve. 

Some  of  the  favorite  vegetables  used  by  the  Japanese  are  boiled 
white-mustard  cabbage,  salted  white-mustard  cabbage,  cooked  bean 
sprouts,  cooked  string  beans,  fresh  diced  cucumber,  and  watercress 
that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Some  prefer  to  make  the  sauce 
as  suggested  above  but  without  vinegar,  or  of  sesame  seeds,  shoyu,  and 
salt.    A  sauce  of  miso  and  sesame  seeds  is  also  used  for  vegetables. 

Table  14. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number  of 


calories  an 

d  their  distribution 

in  sesame-seed  sauce. 

Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 

ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Wt. 

for 

Weight 

Total 

Car- 

yielding 

100 

calor- 

Pro- 

bohy- 

100 

cal- 

ies' 

tein 

Fat 

drate 

calories 

ories 

Vinegar  

Product  

4  tablespoons 
2  tablespoons 
2  tablespoons 
2  teaspoons 
y2  cup 

Grams 

28 
24 
28 
10 
90 

Ounces 

1.0 

.8 
1.0 
.4 

3.2 

146 

96 
15 

257 

22 
9 
31 

114 
114 

10 

96 
6 

112 

Grms. 

35 

Ounces 
1.2 

Cups 

y* 

NISHIME 

Wash  and  tie  the  kombu  in  knots ;  cut  between  the  knots  with  a 
pair  of  scissors  or  with  a  knife.  Add  water  and  cook  slowly  for  30 
minutes,  when  the  water  will  have  partly  evaporated.  To  this  add  the 
vegetables  cut  in  small,  irregular  pieces,  and  the  dried  bonito.  When 
the  vegetables  are  nearly  done,  add  sugar  and  shoyu  and  cook  until 
the  shoyu  is  absorbed.    Nishime  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 


Table  15. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number 
of  calories  and  their  distribution  in  nishime  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calorics 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

18  inches 

11 

0.4 

23 

10 

1 

12 

y2  cup 

Vi  cup 

46 

1.6 

33 

5 

1 

27 

Yi  cup 

40 

1.4 

18 

2 

1 

15 

2A  cup 

78 

2.7 

9 

2 

2 

5 

Dried  bonito  

1  cup 

3  tablespoons 

2  teaspoons 

161 

3 
9 

5.7 
.1 
.3 

109 

9 
37 

9 
9 

1 

99 

37 

3  tablespoons 

42 

1.5 

21 

13 

8 

IVi  cups 

414 

14.6 

259 

50 

6 

203 

160 

5.7 

% 

35 


NIGOME 

Cut  the  vegetables,  aburage,  and  konnyaku  in  >4-inch  cubes,  place 
them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  %  of  a  cup  of  water,  with  the  aburage  on 
top.  Let  simmer  for  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender;  add  seasonings  and  continue  the  cooking  for  5  to  10  minutes. 
Dried  shrimps  or  a  little  pork  may  be  added  for  flavor. 

The  Japanese  state  that  gobo  should  be  prepared  3  to  4  hours  be- 
fore it  is  used  and  be  allowed  to  stand  in  water.  The  water  should  be 
changed  several  times  during  this  period  to  prevent  discoloration  of  the 
food  with  which  it  is  cooked. 

Table  16. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number 
of  calories  and  their  distribution  in  nigome  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calories 

1 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Pat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
orics 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cupi> 

Aburage  

1  CUD 

22 

0.8 

65 

19 

44 

2 

Carrots  

V2  cup 

y2  cup 

Vz  cup 

V2  cup 

%  cup 

Yi  cup 

%  cup 
2  tablespoons 

Vi  cup 
2%  cups 

58 

2.0 

26 

2 

2 

22 

Konnyaku  

74 
68 
68 

2.6 

9 

9 

Daikon  

2.4 

2.4 

46 
1 1 

4 

3 

42 
8 

40 

1.4 

55 

2 

53 

Water  

Dried  bonito  

4 

.1 

12 

12 

Sugar  

24 

.8 

96 

96 

56 

2.0 

28 

16 

12 

Product  

452 

15.9 

348 

58 

46 

244 

130 

4.8 

KIRAZU  WITH  VEGETABLES 
Finely  shred  all  the  foods ;  add  water  and  cook  the  whole  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender.  Add  sugar  and  shoyu  and  let  simmer  for  5 
minutes.  Add  kirazu  and  green  onions,  heat  thoroughly,  and  occasion- 
ally stir  to  prevent  burning.  Dried  shrimps  or  pork  may  be  used  for 
flavoring  instead  of  bonito.  The  kirazu  may  be  heated  in  a  pan  with  fat 
and  then  added  to  the  vegetables. 

Table  17. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number 
of  calories  and  their  distribution  in  kirazu  with  vegetables  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 


Carrots  

Aburage  

Konnyaku  

Gobo  

Flaked  bonito. 

Water  

Sugar  

Shoyu  

Kirazu  

Green  onions.. 
Product  


Measure 


Yl  cup 
Yi  cup 
Y3  cup 
Ys  cup 
2  tablespoons 
Yz  cup 

1  tablespoon 

2  tablespoons 

2  cups 
Vs  cup 

3  cups 


Weight 


Grams  Ounces 


251 
14 
487 


1.2 

.3 
2.0 
1.2 

.1 


.4 
1.0 
8.9 
.5 
17.1 


Total 
calor- 
ies 


48 
14 
147 

2 

315 


Distribution  of  calorics 


Pro- 
tein 


72 


57 


Car- 
bohy- 
drate 


Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 


Grms.  Ounces 


155 


5.4 


Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Cups 


36 


NOODLES  (SOMEN  OR  UDON) 

The  ingredients  required  for  this  dish  are  noodles,  flaked  bonito, 
water,  green  onions,  aburage,  kamaboko,  mushrooms,  shoyu,  and  salt. 

Place  unbroken  noodles  in  boiling  water  and  boil  them  for  20 
minutes.  Drain  and  wash  them  under  cold  running  water  to  keep  them 
from  sticking  together.  Add  them  to  hot  or  to  cold  stock  made  as 
follows:  To  dried  bonito. add  4  cups  of  water  and  let  simmer  for  15 
minutes ;  strain,  and  then  discard  the  bonito.  Add  the  soaked  mush- 
rooms and  shredded  aburage  to  the  stock  and  let  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 
Season  the  stock  with  salt  and  shoyu  and  pour  the  whole  over  the 
drained  noodles.  Garnish  with  finely  cut  green  onions,  shredded  abur- 
age, and  thin  slices  of  mushroom  and  of  kamaboko.  If  they  are  to 
be  served  hot  the  noodles  should  be  immersed  in  boiling  water  and 
the  hot  stock  poured  over  them. 


Table  18. — Kind,  measure,  and  •weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number 
of  calories  and  their  distribution  in  noodles  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Distribution  of  calories 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

Meas- 
ure 
for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Cups 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Noodles  

3  packages 

1  cup 

4  cups 

2  tablespoons 
2  tablespoons 

12  thin  slices 

2  large 
%  cup 

1  tablespoon 
1 0  x/z  cups 

Grams 

246 
16 

Ounces 

8.7 
.6 

781 

104 

,17 

660 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Flaked  bonito  1— 
Water  

Green  onions  

6 
6 

36 
19 

168 

.2 
.2 
1.3 

6.9 

1 

18 

33 
63 

86 

1 
1 

17 
49 
34 

5 

16 
12 

52 

12 

Kamaboko  

Mushrooms  

2 

Shoyu  

Salt  

Product  

2,345 

82.6 

982 

189 

31 

762 

239 

8.4 

I 

1  For  stock 


VINEGAR  SAUCE  FOR  SUSHI 

Make  a  sauce  by  mixing  vinegar,  sugar,  and  bonito.  Let  it  stand 
for  at  least  30  minutes  and  then  strain  out  the  bonito. 


Table  19. — Kind,  measure,  and  vj eight  of  the  Ingredients  used,  and  the  distribution 
of  calories  in  vinegar  sauce  for  sushi  for  use  as  needed 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 

calories 

Distribution   of  calories 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohy- 
drate 

Vinegar  

%  cup 
2  tablespoons 
4  tablespoons 

Vi  cup 

Grams 

118 

40 
155 

Ounces 

4.2 

1.4 
5.5 

13 

160 
173 

8 

5 

160 

165 

Flaked  bonito  1. 
Sugar  

Product  

8 

1  For  flavoring  only 


37 


INARI-SUSHI 

The  ingredients  required  for  this  dish  are  rice,  water,  salt,  aburage, 
carrots,  mushrooms,  string  beans,  gobo,  flaked  bonito,  water,  sugar, 
shoyu,  and  vinegar  sauce.  Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  drain,  and  add 
cold  water.  Salt  may  be  added  at  this  point,  or  after  cooking  is  done.8 
Place  the  rice  over  a  hot  fire  and  when  the  steam  lifts  the  cover  reduce 
the  fire  and  let  the  rice  simmer  for  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  it  is  done. 
Rice  cooked  in  this  Way  tends  to  be  rather  dry  with  the  grains  well 
shaped  and  separate.  Cut  the  aburage  triangle  in  two  pieces  and  re- 
move the  soft  inside  portion,  forming  two  cornucopias.  Shred  the 
carrots,  mushrooms,  string  beans,  gobo,  and  inner  portion  of  the 
aburage,  add  the  bonito  and  water,  and  cook  until  almost  done;  add 
sugar  and  shoyu  and  finish  the  cooking.  Strain  off  the  juice,  add  it  to 
the  aburage  cornucopias,  and  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  Cool  the 
rice,  mix  it  with, one  third  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  sauce  and  cooled  vege- 
tables, and  place  in  the  aburage  cornucopias.  These  are  always  served 
cold,  and  are  a  favorite  dish  with  the  Japanese. 


8  Japanese  ordinarily  never  add  salt  to  rice  because  they  usually  eat  rice  with  salted 
vegetables  or   with  vegetables  seasoned   with  shoyu. 


Table  20. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  number 
of  calories  and  their  distribution  in  inari-sushi  for  six  average  servings 


Ingredients 

Measure 

Distribution  of  calories 

1 

Meas- 
ure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

wt. 

yielding 

100 
calories 

tor 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Rice  

1   %  cups 

Grams 
240 

Ounces 
8.5 

842 

77 

6 

759 

GKrms. 

Ounces 

Corn- 
ucopia 

Water  1  

1   %  cups 

Salt  

2  teaspoons 

3  triangles 

Aburage  

.48 

1.6 

141 

40 

96 

5 

Carrots  

3  tablespoons 

18 

.6 

8 

1 

7 

Mushrooms  

String  beans 
Gobo  

1%  medium 
3  tablespoons 
3  tablespoons 

5 
21 
15 

.2 
.7 
.5 

17 
9 
11 

3 
2 
2 

1 

1 

13 

6 
9 

Flaked  bonito.... 
Water  2  

1  y%  tablespoons 
%  cup 
1  y%  teaspoons 
1  teaspoons 
6  stuffed 

2 

.1 

6 

6 

Sugar  

"~6 

.2 

"24 

24 

21 

.7 

11 

7 

4 

Product  

Yz 

cornucopias 

726 

25.6 

1,069 

138 

104 

827 

68 

2.4 

1  For  rice. 

2  For  vegetables. 


38 


MAKI-SUSHI 

The  ingredients  required  for  maki-sushi  are  rice,  water,  salt,  kam- 
pyo,  mushrooms,  gobo,  watercress,  flaked  bonito,  sugar,  shoyu,  egg, 
salt,  kamaboko,  roast  eel,  and  nori. 

Make  a  sauce  by  mixing  the  vinegar,  the  sugar,  and  the  bonito. 
(See  p.  36).  Let  it  stand  for  at  least  30  minutes  and  then  strain 
out  the  bonito.  Cook  the  rice  as  directed  for  inari-sushi  (p.  37). 
Cut  the  mushrooms,  gobo,  kampyo,  and  watercress  in  narrow  strips,  and 
cook  everything  except  the  watercress  in  water  with  the  bonito  until 
almost  done.  Add  sugar  and  shoyu  and  complete  the  cooking.  Dip 
the  watercress  in  boiling  water  for  a  minute.  Beat  egg  and  salt  together 
and  cook  the  mixture  in  hot  fat.  Cut  the  cooked  egg  and  the  kamaboko 
in  strips  one-fourth  inch  wide.  Let  the  rice  cool  slightly  and  mix  it 
with  half  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  sauce.  Moisten  the  bamboo  mat  (fig. 
25)  with  vinegar  sauce,  cover  with  a  piece  of  nori,  and  spread  with 
\2/z  cups  of  cooked  rice.  Make  a  firm  even  layer  by  pressing  the 
mixture  down  with  the  fingers  moistened  with  vinegar  sauce.  Place 
the  strips  of  gobo,  mushrooms,  watercress,  kampyo,  cooked  egg,  and 
roasted  eel  crosswise  in  the  center  and  roll  by  means  of  the  bamboo 
mat  (fig.  25).  Press  firmly,  remove  the  mat,  and  serve  in  slices  (fig.  15). 


Table  21. — Kind,  measure,  and  weight  of  the  ingredients  used,  and  the  distribution 
of  calories  and  their  number  in  maki-sushi  for  six  average  servings 


Distribution  of  calories 

Meas- 
ure 

Ingredients 

Measure 

Weight 

Total 
calor- 
ies 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Car- 
bohy- 
drate 

Wt. 
yielding 

100 
calories 

for 
100 
cal- 
ories 

Grams 

Ounces 

Grms. 

Ounces 

Cups 

Rice  

2  cups 

375 

13.2 

1,315 

120 

10 

1,185 

Water  1  

2  cups 

Salt  

3  %  teaspoons 

Kampyo  

tablespoon 

""'is 

.2 

15 

2 

13 

Mushrooms  

1  y<z  medium 

5 

.2 

17 

3 

1 

13 

Gobo  

9  strips  6  by 

Watercress  

^4  inches 
4  tender  stalks 

18 

.6 

12 

2 

10 

Flaked  bonito  

9  inches 
1  %  tablespoons 
1  y%  teaspoons 
1  y%  tablespoons 

Vz  cup 

% 

35 
2 
6 

1.2 
.1 
.2 

5 
6 
24 

3 
6 

2 
24 

21 

.7 

11 

7 

4 

Water  2  

35 

1.2 

52 

19 

33 

Salt  

9  strips  6  by 
*4  inches 
%  cup 
3  sheets 
3  rolls 

Roast  eel  

24 
50 

.9 
1.8 

22 
120 

11 

56 

64 

11 

Product  

9 

1,034 

.3 
36.5 

1,599 

229 

107 

1,262 

65 

2.3 

y5  of 

1  roll 

1  For  rice. 

2  For  vegetables. 


39 


MENU 

The  following  two  menus  are  representative  of  the  meals  of  Jap- 
anese with  low  incomes.  Japanese  of  higher  incomes  would  probably 
supplement  their  diet  with  cooked  beans  for  breakfast  and  with  meat 
or  fish  for  lunch  and  for  dinner.  Many  Japanese  in  Hawaii  eat  a 
combination  of  Japanese  and  American  foods. 

BREAKFAST 

( 1 )  Miso  soup  with  wakame ;  rice ;  pickled  daikon  ;  tea. 

(2)  Miso  soup  with  daikon;  rice;  pickled  cabbage;  fried  egg  sea- 
soned with  shoyu  and  sugar ;  tea. 


LUNCH 

( 1 )  Rice ;  kirazu  with  vegetables ;  boiled  watercress  with  shoyu  and 
sesame  seeds ;  tea. 

(2)  Rice;  eggplant  with  miso;  pickled  daikon;  tea. 


SUPPER 

(1)  Rice;  fish  cake  with  miso;  cucumber  and  grated  ginger  in 
vinegar-sugar  sauce;  tofu  shoyu  soup;  tea. 

(2)  Rice ;  tofu  soup  with  lemon  ;  raw  fish  with  cucumber  and  lettuce 
served  with  shoyu  and  grated  ginger  sauce;  tea. 


LITERATURE  CITED 


Association  of  Official  Agricultural  Chemists. 

1930.  official  and  tentative  methods  of  analysis,  com- 
piled BY  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  EDITING  METHODS  OF  ANALY- 
SIS, revised  to  july  19,  1929.  Ed.  3,  593  p.,  illus.  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. 

Atkinson,  G.  F. 
1903.    mushrooms,  edible,  poisonous,  etc.    Ed.  2,  323  p., 
illus.    New  York. 

Chang,  K.  C;  and  Tso,  E. 

1931.  a  soluble  soybean  milk  powder  and  its  adapta- 
tion to  infant  feeding.  Chinese  Jour.  Physiol.  5  : 199-204, 
illus.   (In  English.  Summary  in  Chinese  p.  204.) 

Chung,  H.  L.,  and  Ripperton,  J.  C. 
1929.  utilization   and   composition   of   oriental  vege- 
tables in  Hawaii.    Hawaii  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.  Bui.  60,  64 
p.,  illus. 

Collado,  E.  G. 

1926.  studies  on  the  nutritive  properties  of  sea  weeds. 
Philippine  Agr.  15:  129-148,  illus. 

Han,  J.  E.  S. 

1929.  MONOSODIUM  GLUTAMATE  AS  A  CHEMICAL  CONDIMENT. 

Indus,  and  Engin.  Chem.  21 :984-987,  illus. 
Miller,  C.  D. 

1927.  food  value  of  poi,  taro,  and  limu.  Bernice  P. 
Bishop  Mus.  Bui.  37,  25  p.,  illus.  (Abstract  in  Expt.  Sta. 
Rec.  58:  83-84.) 

OSHIMA,  K. 

1905.     A     DIGEST     OF     JAPANESE     INVESTIGATIONS     ON  THE 

nutrition  of  man.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Off.  Expt.  Stas.  Bui. 
159,  224  p. 

Pian,  J.  H.  C. 

1930.  BIOLOGICAL  value  of  the  proteins  of  mung  bean, 
peanut,  and  bean  curd.  Chinese  Jour.  Physiol.  4 : 
431-436. 

Piper,  C.  V.,  and  Morse,  W.  J. 

1923.    the  soybean.    329   p.,  illus.    New  York. 

Saiki,  T. 

1925.  nutrition.  313  p.,  illus.  Tokyo,  Japan.  (Printed 
only  in  Japanese.) 


41 


Saiki;  Higuchi,  T. ;  Kondo,  M;  and  Matsuzawa,  K. 

1931.     THE  CHEMICAL  ANALYSIS  OF  FOOD  IN  JAPAN.     286  p. 

Tokyo,  Japan. 

Sherman,  H.  C. 
1924.  food  products.  Ed.  2,  rev.  and  enl.,  687  p.,  llus. 
New  York. 

Shimodo,  Y. ;  Fujimaki,  Y. ;  Matsumuro,  H.;  and  Saiki,  S. 

1926.     VITAMIN  CONTENT  OF  JAPANESE,  FOOD  MATERIAL.  In 

Progress  of  the  Science  of  Nutrition  in  Japan,  p.  343-359. 
(League  of  Nations  Pubs.  3.  With  an  introduction  by 
Tadasu  Saiki.) 

Smith,  S.  L. 

1929.  vitamins  in  food  materials.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Circ. 
84,  55  p.,  illus. 

Wan,  S. 

1931.  A  comparison  of  the  dietry  properties  of  "soybean 
milk"  and  cow's  milk.  Chinese  Jour.  Physiol.  5 :  353- 
362,  illus.     (In  English.    Summary  in  Chinese,  p.  362.) 

Winter,  O.  B. 

1931.  report  on  plants.  Jour.  Assoc.  Off.  Agr.  Chem. 
14:  216-221,  illus. 

Miller,  C.  D.,  and  Abel,  M.  G. 
1933.    adsorption  of  vitamin  b  (b2)  by  plant  tissue,  i. 
adsorption  of  vitamin  b  (bx)  by  brassica  chinensis 
when  pickled  with  salt  and  rice  bran.   Jr.  Biol.  Chem. 
100:731-735. 


APPENDIX 


COMPOSITION  OF  SOME  JAPANESE  FOODS  USED  IN  HAWAII 

At  the  Hawaii  station  the  nutritive  constituents  of  some  Japanese 
foods  were  determined  by  methods  outlined  by  the  Association  of  Offi- 
cial Agricultural  Chemists  (1),  the  calcium  and  the  phosphorus  being 
determined  volumetrically.  Iron  was  determined  by  the  ferric  thiocy- 
anate  colorimetric  method  (17,  p.  £16).  The  food  samples  were 
bought  direct  from  the  shops  manufacturing  the  products,  with  the 
exception  of  hukusai,  which  was  prepared  in  the  laboratory.  The 
edamame  were  bought  on  the  open  market  at  the  stage  of  maturity 
usually  desired  by  the  Japanese  for  this  product.  The  beans,  which 
were  tender  and  of  a  fresh  green  color,  similar  in  appearance  to  young 
lima  beans  were  boiled  in  the  pods  for  20  minutes,  removed  from  the 
pods,  and  dried  for  analysis. 

The  figures  given  for  kirazu,  konnyaku,  natto,  and  tofu  are  averages 
of  the  analyses  of  two  separate  samples  obtained  from  different  sources. 
The  figures  for  kogi,  miso,  tonyu,  and  edamame  are  averages  of  dupli- 
cate analyses  on  single  samples.  The  figures  for  hukusai  represent  the 
average  of  analyses  on  two  separately  prepared  lots  of  cabbage. 

The  figure  for  carbohydrates  for  foods  analyzed  in  Honolulu  are 
calculated  by  difference.  Dr.  Saiki  states  that  carbohydrates  given  in 
their  analyses  were  determined  by  Bertrand's  method. 

The  figures  given  by  Saiki  and  coworkers  for  CaO,  P2Os,  and 
Fe2  03,  have  been  recalculated  as  Ca,  P,  and  Fe,  to  conform  to  the 
more  general  American  usage.    All  other  figures  are  quoted  exactly. 

Table  1  gives  the  nutritive  constituents  and  mineral  elements  and 
the  gram  weight  per  100  calories  of  some  Japanese  foods. 


4»        _  C-J 

to  o 


cm 

O  O 


■*  O  ■*  cm  c^,  "> 
O  5  © ©  ©o© 


vr>  —  o  »^  *r     1-.   :  oo  :»N 

o— ©oO°o  :©  :©S 
-  •  -»  O  §  ©  q  §   :  q   :  q  § 


o  «  o  c 

~i  P.  °.  q 


u      r~  CM 


o  o 


VO  t"*  *M  m 
—  ~  ,  cvl     "~  CM  I  - 


■MnhOOOm     :  «  o  O 

swoooOfM   :  —  ©  — - 


tj       ™  O  ^  *^ 

Si     ~  P.  © 


o  ^  * 


f>  O  VO  !M  CO 

©  ©  ©  o  © 


:  ■+  ?vi  vc  o 

.  o  —  —  -d* 
:  ©  ©  o  © 


OO  O  O  O  t*l 

Cl">  o  O  oo  r-»  o 
^<\)      \0  O 


c  O      -*  \0  CJ* 


ohy- 

>•  5 

rent 

O  ©  O  ^  t*i 

1^  OO  lti  OO 

0  o  o  o  o  o  : 

1  -.  r--  lo  exj      o  | 

o  O      C-  >— ■  — " 

O  OO  VO  O  3 

O  tTl  t^i  OJ  Qs 

Carb 
dra 

-a  C 
ta 

Per, 

(SI  *"*">  VO  CO  l/i 

— '  t--'  cn  r\j  —  \6  : 
(M       rj-     '  ^ 

vo      vo      r-i  c*-> 
vo      vo  eg 

^  « ^ 

SO 

g 

Q            f-i  C-J 

oo 

^  —  ;-n-vd^n 
— •       :     ©  — 

VO  —       CO  r*l 

;  ©  <t*j  t-- 

Per 

eg  -«*■ 

:  ^  — ;  *  « 

w  vO 
O  M 

ii5 


oo©^^. 


—  ©  ©c-J©o©0»n 

©1^  t*->      cm  <5  —  «or> 

©CC  CM  csi  — ^  —  f- •* 
tr,  CM  ^  —  t~~ 


CO        OO  CM  © 


©O^"*©"*©^  —  ooo 

^  ^  oo  ""t  ^  ^5-  ^  q  cm  a> 
r^r^<NJc->vot^<-5©-*^"*'-co 


feUOoiJ  c/j 


o 


2  I 


I2i 


o 


2  xi     «  o  o  i  •■ 


14  i£  ^ 


c  w  s 
'-  °  uw  1,1  X  O  OT3  C 


EH  a 


6  S 
<6h 


