JTX  813 
I.F5  F6 
(Copy   1 


«*cae 


i«-SSS 


■j/0^ 


(Soeic^ 


. 


The  J.  C.  Forkner 


m  iiiiiiiiiiiiii 


IG 


—gardens 
recipes 


How  to  Serve  Figs 
in  the  Home 


Fresno,  California 


B 


TX&/3 

\F5F6 


COPYRIGHT 
1919 

BY 

J.  C.  FORKNER 


©C1A533068 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG    GARDENS    RECIPES 


Fresno  County,  California,  Palms 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER  FIG  GARDENS   RECIPES 


FRUITAGE  SHOWN 
IN  PLANTINGS  OF 
THE  MISSION  FATHERS— 


The  dried  fig  of  commerce  is  one  of  the 
first  and  most  favored  of  the  fruits  spoken 
of  in  the  history  of  civilization,  the  fruit 
first  produced  around  Jerusalem  and 
Damascus. 

There  are  but  a  few  favored  sections 
along  the  Mediterranean  Ocean  where  the 
fig  of  commerce  can  thrive.  No  other 
section  in  all  the  world  has  been  dis- 
covered, for  thousands  of  years,  where 
this  fig  of  commerce  can  be  grown 
properly — except  in  the  San  Joaquin  and 
the  Sacramento  Valleys  of  Central  Cali- 
fornia. 

The  findings  of  forty  years,  years  of 
patient  endeavor  and  of  exhaustive  ex- 
periments, have  determined  that  this  west- 
coast  section,  in  soil  and  in  climate, 
peculiarly  favors  the  fig  that  has  made 
famous  the  far-away  Valley  of  Maeander, 
Asia  Minor. 

Moreover,  the  history  of  the  fig  in  Cali- 
fornia is  fraught  with  interest,  and  has  to 
do  with  the  sacrificial  wanderings  of  the 
Franciscan  Fathers,  who  traversed — dur- 
ing  the   pre-territorial   period — the   then 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS   RECIPES 

wastes  now  included  within  the  boun- 
daries of  the  Golden  State. 

Wherever  there  was  left  the  impress  of 
the  Mission  Father,  there  has  ever  been 
in  propagation  the  little  Black  Fig  of 
pleasant  fruitage. 

Aside  from  other  now  world-famous 
fig-tree  growths  of  the  San  Joaquin  (Cali- 
fornia) Valley,  the  six  thousand  acres  of 
Fig  Gardens,  comprising  the  J.  C.  Forkner 
Fig  Gardens,  just  north  of  the  city  of 
Fresno,  give  emphasis  to  the  claims  made 
for  the  Central  California  section. 

This  six-thousand-acre  tract  of  fig  gar- 
dens has  been  and  is  being  divided  into 
the  smaller,  individual  holdings,  bringing 
into  being  a  community  of  prosperous 
homes — the  beginning  of  the  larger  de- 
velopment now  in  the  planning. 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 

FOOD   VALUE 

OF  THE  COMMON  FIG— 

The  Picus  Carica,  or  common  fig,  is  but 
one  of  more  than  an  hundred  species  of  a 
most  interesting  fruit  which,  from  the 
earliest  of  ancient  times  has,  in  its  varying 
forms,  been  accorded  not  only  a  place  of 
importance  but  of  honor  and  of  reverence. 

Biblical  records  mention  the  fig  as  cloth- 
ing, as  food,  as  medicine,  and,  in  the 
matter  of  clothing,  were  it  still  "the 
fashion  to  wear  'em"  the  Fig  Leaf  would 
be  particularly  enhanced  in  value — a  fact 
due  to  the  infinite  variety  of  its  pattern, 
two  leaves,  even  on  the  same  tree,  never 
being  found  exactly  alike — featuring  "ex- 
clusive designs.' ' 

In  the  matter  of  food  values,  according 
to  scientific  analysis,  the  fig  has  no  equal. 
In  its  component  parts,  there  is  nothing 
of  refuse ;  the  fig  carries  the  minimum  of 
water;  in  protein  the  fig  is  rated  at  4.3; 
in  fat,  .3 ;  in  carbo-hydrates,  74.2 ;  in  ash, 
2.4,  approximating  in  fuel,  flesh-sustain- 
ing value  per  pound  in  calories  1475. 

The  only  other  fruits  approaching  the 
fig  in  these  vital  essentials  are  the  date 
and  the  prune — all  others  carrying  but 
370,  and  less,  of  calories. 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


HEALTHFULNESS 

A  FIG  CHARACTERISTIC— 

Either  green  or  dried,  the  fig  has  no 
superior  in  healthfulness  among  the  fruits 
of  common  usage,  and  in  food  values  holds 
a  place  entirely  its  own. 

The  large  amount  of  sugar  carried  by 
the  fig  is  most  nourishing,  and,  being  one 
of  nature's  best  laxatives,  pleasant  to  the 
taste,  mild  yet  positive  in  effect,  easily 
displaces  the  decidedly  acid  fruits. 

In  addition  to  the  wholesome  qualities 
of  the  fig,  there  is  no  fruit  which,  dried 
or  preserved  by  some  method  of  cooking, 
so  retains  or  so  transforms  its  charms 
into  equal  attractiveness. 

The  fg  is  quite  unique  in  being  as 
agreeable  dried  as  in  its  original,  fresh 
juciness — and  its  saccharine  quality  is 
greater. 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FACTS  ABOUT  FIGS 

AND  HOW  TO  USE  THEM— 

TO  EAT  FRESH  FIGS— 

When  figs  are  served  at  the  table  un- 
cooked, hold  them  by  the  stem  and,  with 
a  small  knife,  cut  the  fruit  across  twice, 
at  right  angles,  downward  as  far  as  the 
stem.  Thus  quartered,  the  pulp  will  open 
and  hang  slightly  outward  but  will  not 
become  entirely  detached.  Then  with  the 
knife  separate  the  pulp  from  the  skin, 
gently  scraping  it  toward  you,  from  the 
center,  or  stem-heart,  downward.  By  this 
method  one  secures  the  entire  pulp  with- 
out the  skin,  and  in  convenient  bits  for 
eating. 

TO  FRESHEN  FIGS— 

Place  dried  figs  in  an  enamelled  colan- 
der and  steam  until  soft  and  filled  out  in 
appearance.  Remove  and  prepare  further 
for  cooking  as  desired,  or  roll  in  con- 
fectioners '  sugar  and  set  aside  to  partially 
dry  before  serving.  A  drop  of  tart  fruit 
juice  and  a  little  sugar  may  be  placed 
inside  the  fig. 

TO  SERVE  FIGS— 

If  the  figs  are  of  the  dried  order,  they 
should  be  washed,  drained  and  chilled. 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


DAINTY  DELIGHTS 


TOASTY  TEASERS— 

Wash  carefully  and  in  boiling-  water  cook  until 
tender  a  half-pound  of  pulled  fig's,  add  one-fourth 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Cook  until  the  syrup  is  well  reduced. 
Cut  the  crust  from  a  thick  slice  of  bread  and  saute 
to  a  golden  brown,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on 
the  other,  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  butter. 
Drain  the  bread  on  soft  paper;  then  heap  the  figs 
upon  it,  cover  with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  thick 
cream,  and  a  scant  fourth  cup  of  sugar,  beaten 
until  stiff.  Serve  at  once.  Sponge  cake  may  be 
used  in  the  place  of  bread. 

FIG    FLUFF-DUFF— 

Stew  one  cap  of  dried  figs  until  tender,  then  put- 
through  a  colander  and  mix  with  one  cup  of  sugar 
in  which  has  been  sifted  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Beat  thoroughly  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  when  perfectly  stiff  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  whip  again.  Now  mix 
lightly,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  the  figs  and  sugar 
and  place  in  a  buttererd  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  over 
the  top  one-half  cup  of  fine- chopped  nuts  and  bake 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  this  with  cream,  plain 
or  whipped. 

FIG    FOAM— 

Make  an  orange  or  lemon  gelatine  jelly.  (With 
a  plain  gelatine  it  is  best  to  follow  directions  given 
by  the  manufacturers  of  the  particular  brand  one 
uses,  as  they  know  best  the  strength  of  their 
gelatine,  using,  however,  in  a  warm  climate  one 
cup  less  of  water  than  that  recommended:)  With 
this  as  a  foundation,  when  the  gelatine  begins  to 
harden  slightly  on  being  removed  from  the  stove 
and  whipped  in  process  of  cooling,  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  chopped 
figs.     Place  in  a  mould  and  set  on  ice  to  chill. 


Page  One- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


MIDWINTER    MACEDOINE— 

Five  or  six  cooked  fig's,  one  banana,  one  grape- 
fruit or  two  oranges. 

Cut  the  fig's  in  smooth  slices,  scrape  the  banana 
and  cut  in  thin  slices;  remove  the  grapefruit  or 
orange  pulp  in  neat  pieces  from  the  respective 
fruits,  cut  in  halves.  Save  all  of  the  juice.  Dis- 
pose the  fruit  in  glass  or  china  saucers,  reserving 
a  slice  of  banana  and  five  or  six  slices  of  the  fig 
for  each  saucer;  divide  the  fruit  juice  among  the 
dishes;  set  the  slices  of  banana  in  the  center  and 
arrange  the  slices  of  figs  from  the  banana  to  the 
edge,  like  the  spokes  of  a  wheel.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  before  finishing  the  dishes,  or  pass 
the  sugar  at  time  of  serving. 

ANGELS'    DELIGHT— 

Use  one  pound  dried  figs.  Soak  in  cold  water 
until  soft,  then  stew  slowly  until  tender.  Add  sugar 
enough  to  make  a  rich,  heavy  syrup,  and  flavor 
with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Cool  and  turn  into 
a  glass  dish.  Just  before  serving,  cover  the  figs 
with  whipped  cream  which  has  been  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla.  Serve  small  plain  cakes  or 
wafers  with  it. 

DORA  CHRISTY  WHIP— 

Five  cooked  figs,  four  whites  of  eggs,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boiled 
custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  one- fourth  teaspoonful 
of  salt. 

Cut  the  figs  in  tiny  bits;  beat  the  whites  dry; 
gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  salt,  then  fold  in 
the  figs.  Turn  into  a  buttered-and-sugared  dish. 
Bake  on  many  folds  of  paper  and  surrounded  with 
boiling  water.  The  water  should  not  boil  during 
the  cooking.  The  whip  or  souffle,  is  done  when 
firm  in  the  center.  Serve  hot  with  boiled  custard, 
or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

FIGS,    BANANAS  AND   NUTS— 

Four  figs,  four  bananas,  two  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar,  one-fourth  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

Peel,  scrape  and  slice  bananas;  wash,  dry  and 
chop  the  figs;  spread  figs  over  the  bananas;  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  nut-meats,  and  serve  with  cream. 

Grape-nuts  may  be  used  instead  of  nut-meats. 

WARD  WH IP- 
Peel  fresh  figs,  sprinkle  with  enough  sugar  to 
sweeten  them,  chop  very  fine;  let  stand  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved;  then  to  one  cup  of  the  mixture 
whip  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  thoroughly  whipped 
and  scalded.     Set  away  to  cool.     Serve  with  cake, 


— Page  Two 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A    BEHEN    TEMPTATION— 

Take  large  white  figrs,  as  many  as  are  desired, 
for  five  minutes  steam  them  over  hot  water;  re- 
move from  the  steamer  and  while  yet  warm  press 
each  fig-  down  flat  and  round,  and  place  the  half 
of  a  walnut  in  the  center  of  each. 

DAINTY   BETTY   ROLLS— 

Chop  soft  figs  fine,  putting-  flour  on  the  chopping 
knife  to  keep  the  figs  from  sticking  to  the  knife; 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  pecan  meats;  mix  with 
cream  until  it  will  spread  readily.  Use  brown- 
bread,  free  from  crusts,  and  cut  very  thin.  Roll 
each  sandwich  and  hold  with  a  wooden  toothpick. 

MARA   ELLA   TOAST— 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately;  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  butter;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one -half  pound 
of  chopped  walnuts;  one  pound  of  chopped  figs;  six 
tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  the  sugar^  add  the  egg- 
yolks  well  beaten;  add  the  figs  and  the  nuts  which 
have  been  chopped  or  cut  into  small  pieces.  Mix 
in  the  baking  powder  and  crumbs  and  add  to  the 
mixture;  lastly,  add  the  well-beaten  egg-whites. 

Bake  in  rather  a  thin  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  as  a  frosting. 

ELLETA    S.    MACAROONS— 

One  cup  of  sugar;  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter; 
two  eggs;  stir  until  light  and  creamy;  two  cups  of 
sifted  flour;  two-thirds  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda;  one 
teaspoon  of  salt;  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 

Sift  the  flour,  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon  together; 
add  to  the  sugar,  butter  and  egg  mixture;  then 
add  two  cups  of  rolled  oatmeal,  put  through  a, 
grinder;  one  cup  of  shredded  raisins;  one  cup  of 
chopped  nuts;  one  cup  of  shredded  figs.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  greased  pan; 
bake  rather  slowly. 

FIG   FOLLIES— 

Use  any  good  sponge  cake.  To  make  the  "fol- 
lies," or  balls,  cut  the  sponge  cake  into  one- inch 
squares,  or  a  little  larger,  niping  off  the  corners 
with  a  knife;  dip  into  "Boiled  Frosting,"  then  roll 
in  a  mixture  of  chopped  figs  and  nuts. 


Page  Three- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  SPECIALS 


APPLES  STUFFED  WITH    FIGS— 

Select  plump,  juicy  dried  figs,  wash  them,  care- 
fully pinching  them  into  their  natural  shape;  select 
good,  firm  apples,  wash  them,  scoop  out  the  cores, 
and  into  these  holes  press  two  or  three  whole  figs; 
place  them  in  a  baking-pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven;  while  baking  baste  them  with  a  syrup  made 
from  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  a  half- cup  of  water. 

The  secret  of  making  good  baked  apples  is  to 
have  them  thoroughly  baked,  but  not  baked  in 
pieces.  If  when  they  look  done  they  are  soft  to 
the  core,  cover  the  baking  dish  and  let  them  steam 
for  a  few  minutes;  remove  the  cover  and  brown 
the  fruit  slightly.  These  apples  may  be  served 
either   alone   or  with   Hamburg   cream. 

FIG   AND    NUT  SOUFFLE— 

Press  one  cup  stewed  figs  through  a  colander, 
add  one-half  cup  sugar  mixed  with  one  teaspoon 
cornstarch,  or  cool  and  add  two  beaten  egg  yolks 
and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  five  eggs,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish, 
sprinkle  with  minced  nuts  and  bake  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
made  of  the  remaining  egg  yolks. 

FIG  CONSERVE— 

Two  pounds  of  fresh  figs,  or  one  quart  of  plain 
canned  figs;  one  orange,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  pecans  (shelled),  one-half 
pound  of  raisins.  Cut  all,  except  nuts,  into  small 
pieces  and  cook  until  thick  and  transparent  (about 
one  hour).  Add  nuts  five  minutes  before  removing 
from  stove.  Pack  and  seal  hot.  Process  pint  jars 
for  thirty  minutes  at  180  degrees  Fahrenheit  in 
a  water  bath. 


— Page  Four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


A "LELL" CHARTREUSE— 

Wash  one-half  pound  of  figs  in  warm  water  and 
drain.  Barely  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over 
night.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  very 
slowly  until  tender,  then  pour  off  the  juice.  Wash 
one  cupful  of  rice  and  drop  into  a  kettle  of  slightly 
salted  water  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  and 
place  in  a  double  boiler,  and  from  time  to  time  add 
a  little  milk  until  very  soft  and  the  milk  is  all 
absorbed,  then  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Have  ready  a  buttered  mold.  Line  bottom  and 
sides  with  the  rice,  place  the  figs  in  the  center  and 
cover  with  the  rest  of  the  rice.  Measure  the  fig 
juice,  add  water  if  necessary,  to  make  one  pint, 
add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Bake  the  chartreuse  for  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven,  then  turn  out.  Serve  with  the  fig 
syrup,  to  which  is  added  a  little  vanilla. 

FIG-APPLE   SHORTCAKE— 

One-half  pound  figs,  four  tart  apples,  one-half 
cup  of  water,  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  nutmeg.  Wash  and  chop  the  figs; 
pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples;  simmer  with  the 
figs,  water,  sugar  and  nutmeg  until  thick  enough  to 
spread.     Spread  between  and  on  top  of  shortcake. 

COMPOTE   OF    FIGS— 

One  pound  of  pulled  figs,  two  cups  of  water,  one- 
fourth  cup  of  sugar,  four  teaspoons  of  lemon-juice, 
one  cup  of  cream,  one-fourth  cup  of  powdered 
sugar. 

Soak  figs  in  water,  then  press  into  shape.  Mix 
sugar  and  water,  boil  until  syrupy,  add  lemon- 
juice.  Arrange  figs  on  serving  dish;  cover  with 
syrup;  garnish  with  sweetened  cream,  beaten  until 
stiff,   pressed  through  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

RAYBOURNE   COMPOTE— 

One  pound  of  figs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  thick 
slice  of  a  lemon;  simmer  the  figs,  covered  with 
water,  for  an  hour;  when  cool,  remove  the  figs, 
press  into  natural  shape  and  pile  on  a  glass  dish. 
Take  the  water  in  which  the  figs  were  cooked, 
add  the  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  the  slice  of  lemon; 
boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Pour  the  syrup  over  the 
figs.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

FIG   CROQUETS— 

When  making  rice  croquets,  have  ready  some  figs 
which  have  been  plumped  in  hot  water.  Dust  each 
fig  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  and  place  in 
the  center  of  the  croquet.     Cook  as  usual. 


Page  Five — 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG    SQUARES— 

Cook  ripe,  peeled  fig's  slowly  in  double  boiler 
with  a  little  sugar  and  flavoring-  (if  desired;,  till 
smooth  and  thick.  Almonds  may  be  added  while 
cooking.  Pour  into  shallow  moulds  or  pans  and 
dry  slowly  in  sun,  oven  or  dryer;  when  perfectly 
dry,  cut  in  squares  or  strips  and  wrapping-  in  oiled 
paper  store  in  dry  place.  These  may  be  used  for 
cookery  as  are  the  commercial  figs. 


FIGS  AND   MACARONI,  OR 

FIGS  AND  DRIED-APPLE  SAUCE— 

Cook  two  cups  of  dried  figs  with  enough  water 
to  well- cover;  when  nearly  done  put  about  a  cup 
of  sug-ar  over  them.  Be  sure  that  there  is  about 
a  cup  of  juice  when  the  figs  are  done.  In  another 
pan,  cook  about  two  cups  of  macaroni  in  boiling 
salt  water  until  done;  put  figs  and  macaroni  in 
separate  dishes,  but  when  served  combine  them. 
Dried  apples,  instead  of  the  macaroni,  is  used  with 
pleasing  results. 

MAY-IRENE   CREAMS— 

Wash  the  figs  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them  and  with  a  half- 
cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Simmer  until  the  figs 
are  tender  when  pierced  with  a  fork.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Add  a  cup 
of  sug-ar  to  the  liquid  and  boil  to  a  rather  thick 
syrup.  Take  from  the  fire  and  pour  over  the  figs. 
When  very  cold  put  into  a  glass  dish  and  just 
before  sending"  to  the  table,  heap  whipped  cream 
on  top.     Eat  with   light   cake. 

PARISIENE    COMPOTE— 

Five  oranges  cut  fine;  four  bananas  cut  thin; 
one  cup  of  Malaga  grapes,  cut;  one  cup  of  fresh 
fig's,  cut;  one  cup  of  walnut  meats;  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  one -half  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon;  cover  with  whipper  cream. 


FIG    LAXATIVE— 

One  pound  of  dried  figs,  or  one-half  pound  of 
dried  figs  and  one-half  pound  of  raisins,  to  one 
ounce  of  Senna  leaves.  Chop  fine  and  put  into  a 
stew-pan  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  pour  out  on  oiled  paper  in  long 
baking  tin  to  cool.  A  piece  about  an  inch  square 
at  bedtime  may  prove  sufficient,  if  not  take  more 
as  conditions  may  determine. 


— Page  Six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 

BAKED    FIGS 

Place  fresh  figs  in  a  small  crock  or  earthen 
dish,  with  a  little  sugar  and  lemon  juice  or  that 
of  other  fruit.  Cover  and  bake  slowly  and  no 
water   will   be   required. 

A   BURT  COMPOTE— 

Take  one  dozen  large  figs,  cut  in  halves  or  quar- 
ters, put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  package  of 
gelatine,  two  ounces  of  fine  sugar  and  enough 
water  to  cover  them;  let  them  simmer  slowly  for 
two  hours,  then  pour  into  a  wet  mould.  When 
quite  set,  turn  out;  serve  with  a  surrounding  of 
whipped  cream. 


Page  Seven — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  CONFECTIONS 


CANDIED   OR  CRYSTALLIZED   FIGS— 

Place  fully-ripe,  perfect  figs  in  a  wire  basket  and 
dip  them  into  a  deep  kettle  of  hot  lye  made  from 
wood  ashes.  Let  them  remain  in  the  lye  a  minute 
or  two  to  remove  the  gum  and  milk  and  until  the 
fig's  begin  to  shrivel  slightly.  Let  all  the  lye  drip 
off  the  figs,  place  them  in  a  kettle  or  vat  of  boil- 
ing syrup,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  three  or  four 
minutes.  On  removing  them  from  the  boiling  syrup 
drain  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  granulated  sugar, 
then  place  on  thin  wooden  slabs  or  "hurdles"  of 
galvanized  iron  and  dry  very  slowly  in  fruit  dryer, 
or  slow  oven,  turning  the  figs  frequently.  When 
thoroughly  dried  and  sugared,  these  may  be  packed 
in  layers,  with  oiled  paper  between,  and  kept  in  a 
dry  place. 

CANDIED   FIGS— 

Are  made  only  from  young  green  figs  not  yet 
fully  ripe.  Place  in  glass  jars,  pour  on  salt  water, 
and  steam  until  soft.  Pour  off  the  salt  water  and 
pour  over  a  syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  to 
three  of  water.  After  a  day,  take  out,  place  on 
wire  screens,  and  allow  to  drip  for  one  or  two 
days  in  a  warm  place.  Place  again  in  jars  or 
earthenware;  cover  with  a  syrup  made  of  one  cup 
of  sugar  to  one  and  one -half  cups  of  water.  After 
a  day,  take  out  and  allow  to  drip.  The  third  soak- 
ing should  be  in  a  syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar 
to  one-half  cup  of  water.  In  this  syrup  the  figs 
are  allowed  to  remain  as  long  as  possible,  or  until 
required.  Take  out,  drip  and  roll  in  confectioners' 
powdered  white  sugar  in  a  pan  made  lukewarm. 
When  the  figs  have  absorbed  all  the  sugar  they 
can  they  are  taken  out  and  packed  in  large  boxes 
with  powdered  sugar.  The  preserved  fruit  is  after- 
wards  re-packed  in   small  boxes   for  the  market. 


— Page  Eight 


THE   J.    C.    PORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


JEANIE    F.   S.   CRYSTALS — 

The  figs  must  be  picked  when  fully  ripe,  but 
before  they  are  shriveled.  Take  figs  of  as  even 
a  size  as  possible  in  order  to  save  assorting-  after- 
wards. Simmer  in  a  kettle  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  When  ready, 
the  fig's  will  have  become  clear  and  semi-trans- 
parent. Drain  off  the  water.  Prepare  a  strong 
syrup  of  best  white  sugar  and  drop  the  figs  in. 
Keep  this  in  a  cool  place.  In  from  twenty-four 
to  thirty-six  hours,  the  figs  will  have  absorbed  most 
of  the  sugar  and  the  syrup  become  very  weak. 
Draw  off  the  syrup,  add  more  white  sugar,  and 
thus  make  the  syrup  stronger.  Simmer  but  do  not 
boil.  Drop  the  figs  in  and  test  again  in  twenty- 
four  hours.  If  the  syrup  is.  weak  renew  the  process. 
When  the  syrup  retains  its  strength,  the  process 
is  discontinued.  Prepare  a  very  strong  syrup  of 
best  white  sugar;  simmer,  but  do  not  boil.  Previous 
to  this  the  figs  are  dried  in  the  sun  or  in  dryer 
until  they  slightly  ring  when  dropped  on  a  stone 
floor.  The  figs,  however,  should  not  be  so  dry 
that  they  cannot  be  readily  squeezed  when  pressed 
between  the  fingers.  Now  immerse  these  dried 
figs  for  a  few  seconds  in  the  strong,  hot  syrup, 
then  drain  off  and  place  on  wire  trays  in  a  hot- 
air  dryer  or  in  the  hot  sun,  if  on  a  warm  day. 
The  syrup  dries  quickly  and  leaves  the  figs  glaced. 
If  crystallized  figs  are  wanted,  the  figs  are  slowly 
dried  in  the  shade,  in  which  case  the  syrup  crystal- 
lizes instead  of  producing  a  glace. 

BEILING   SWEETS— 

One  cup  of  figs,  one  cup  of  dates,  one  cup  of 
nut-meats.  Put  these  through  a  meat-grinder,  and 
make  into  small  balls.  These  may  be  dipped  in 
chocolate  if  desired.  Any  kind  of  nuts  may  be 
used.  If  these  ingredients  fail  to  stick  together 
in  the  making  of  the  balls,  several  drops  of 
molasses  may  be  added. 

A  JENNEY   FUDGE— 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  pinch  of  cream 
of  tartar,  one-fourth  pound  of  chopped  figs,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
water,   one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan;  add 
the  butter  and  the .  cream  of  tartar;  when  this 
boils,  add  the  figs,  and  boil  to  a  soft  ball  when 
tried  in  cold  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  lemon  extract  and  salt,  cool  for 
five  minutes,  then  stir  until  it  begins  to  grain, 
and  quickly  pour  into  buttered  tins.  When  half- 
cooled,   mark  into  squares. 


Page  Nine — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


h.  o.  p.  dainties- 
two   pounds   of   figs,    one   pound   of  raisins,    one 
pound  of  dates,  one  pound  of  nut-meats  (any  kind), 
one  tablespoon  of  vanilla. 

Grind  the  fruit  and  the  nuts  in  a  fod-chopper; 
add  the  flavoring,  and  knead  well.  Dredge  a  board 
with  powdered  sugar,  roll  out  the  mixture  to  a 
thickness  of  from  one-quarter  to  a  half-inch  thick- 
ness; cut  in  any  desired  shape;  roll  in  powdered 
sugar. 

BLACKSTONE   BRITTLE— 

Melt  one  pound  of  white  sugar  in  granite  sauce- 
pan; stir  in  one-half  pound  of  chopped  figs,  and 
pour  in  a  pan  to  the  depth  of  one  inch.  Cut  in 
strips  and  serve. 

RITCHEY    RICHNESS— 

One  pound  of  figs,  one  pound  of  dates,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  one  pound  of  English  walnut  meats; 
grind  all  in  a  meat-chopper;  work  in  as  much 
powdered  sugar  as  the  mixture  will  take;  roll  out 
about  one-half  an  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  into 
squares. 

dean  fudge- 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  of  chocolate;  cook, 
stirring  constantly,  until  bubbles  break  slowly;  add 
one-half  pound  of  walnuts  chopped  fine,  and  one- 
half  pound  of  Fresno  dried  figs  run  through  a 
meat-grinder;  stew  until  the  mass  begins  to 
harden,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  plate.  When 
cool  cut  into  squares. 

DUDE  TAFT  TOFFE— 

One  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  one  cup  of  water;  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  until  hard  when 
tried  in  water.  For  the  fruit,  use  figs,  grapes, 
dates,  pieces  of  orange,  or  any  other  fruit,  and 
dip  into  the  toffe  while  hot.  They  harden  very 
quickly. 

FIG    KISSES— 

Whites  of  four  eggs;  two  cups  of  brown  sugar; 
one  pound  of  chopped  figs;  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
ground  nuts ;  vanilla  flavoring.  Beat  the  egg  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  sugar,  add  the  figs  which 
have  been  cut  very  fine  or  ground  and  weighed, 
then  add  the  nuts  and  the  vanilla.  Drop  from  a 
teaspoon  on  lightly  buttered  baking  sheets;  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  until  slightly  brown. 


— Page  Ten 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


CONSERVATION   SWEETMEATS— 

Ten  ounces  of  fig's,  one-eig"hth  spoonful  of  ground 
cinnamon,  one-half  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one- 
half  pound  dripping"  chocolate,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  vanilla. 

Put  the  figs  and  the  raisins  through  the  food 
chopper;  add  the  flavoring;  form  into  small  balls. 
Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler;  drop  the 
sweetmeats  into  the  melted  chocolate,  one  at  a 
time;  remove  with  a  silver  fork  and  place  on  waxed 
paper  to  cool  and  to  harden. 

To  retain  the  glace  on  chocolate-covered  candies, 
add  one  teaspoon  of  olive  oil  or  one-half  ounce  of 
cocoa  butter  to  the  chocolate. 

LANE  FIG  CANDY- 
TWO  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one- 
half  cup  of  white  Karo  syrup.  Cook  until  the 
mixture  threads;  beat  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff; 
pour  on  the  hot  syrup,  slowly  stirring*  until  all 
of  the  syrup  is  added-;  beat  hard,  or  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  then  add  two  cups  of  chopped  fig's; 
beat  until  it  is  thick  enough  to  put  on  buttered 
plates.  When  cool,  cut  in  slices.  Splendid  for 
children. 

VOGEL  STRIPS— 

One  pound  of  any  kind  of  figs,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  one  pound  of  walnuts  of  any  variety;  grind 
them  all  tog-ether  in  a  vegetable  grinder;  roll  the 
mixture  into  a  nice  round  roll;  lay  them  to  one 
side  to  dry — will  dry  in  about  five  days.  When 
dry,  slice  thin  or  thick,  according*  to  fancy,  drop 
the  slices  into  dry  sug-ar.     A  real  dainty. 

noble  sweets- 
two  cups  of  figs,  two  cups  of  dates,  two  cups 
of  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon- 
juice,  four  tablespoons  of  sug-ar.  Put  the  whole 
throug-h  a  food- chopper  and  mix  well.  Roll  in 
powdered  sug-ar,  and  cut  into  any  shape  that  may 
please  fancy. 

COALING  A    CRYSTALS— 

Make  a  strong*,  thick  syrup,  put  in  a  little  vineg*ar 
and  powdered  ginger;  pare  the  fig's,  which  must 
not  be  too  ripe;  boil  until  clear;  spread  on  plates; 
change  and  turn  often  until  drained;  after  the 
drying*  process  is  well  begun,  roll  in  granulated 
sugar;  press  flat  with  knife;  turn  every  day  until 
perfectly  dry;  roll  in  sugar  once  more  and  pack  in 
boxes  or  jars. 


Page  Eleven — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


ROGER   S.    BONBONS— 

One  cup  of  figs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of 
walnut  meats,  one-half  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut; 
grind  all  together  in  a  meat-choper,  then  roll  into 
balls;  mix  in  a  little  powdered  sugrar  if  necessary 
to  keep  the  balls  smooth  in,  shape. 

Melt  unsweetened  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler; 
keep  the  chocolate  just  warm  enough  to  prevent 
solidifying.  With  a  silver  fork  or  hatpin  drop  the 
balls  into  the  chocolate.  See  that  each  piece  is 
completely  coated,  then  remove  to  wax  paper  to 
harden. 

FRUIT    ROLL— 

Boil  two  cups  of  white  sug*ar  with  one-half  cup 
of  water,  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire;  let  it  cool  and  beat  it  until 
it  creams.  Be  careful  not  to  have  it  too  stiff. 
Add  one  cup  each  of  finely- chopped  figs  and  dates, 
and  beat  as  long  as  possible.  Roll  in  a  wet  cloth, 
and  leave  in  a  cool  place  over  night. 

Slice  in  thin  strips,   or  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

fig  fudge- 
to  two  cups  of  granulated  sug-ar  add  two -thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one -third  cup  of  butter. 
Add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  when  the  syrup  has 
begun  to  simmer.  Stir  this  until  just  after  the 
vanilla  has  been  added,  then  let  it  cook  for  twenty- 
five  minutes  without  stirring,  watching  carefully, 
however,  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  a  light 
brown  in  color  pour  out  on  plates  on  which  are 
spread  chopped  fig's — and  let  cool. 

HOLIDAY  HASH- 
TWO  cups  of  granulated  sug-ar;  one-half  cup  of 
maple  or  brown  sugar;  one -half  cup  of  g-olden 
corn  syrup;  one  cup  of  water  and  a  pinch  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Boil  to  the  hard  "soft  ball"  stag-e;  add 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  pour  over  the  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Have  ready  one-fourth 
cup  of  chopped  figs,  candied  cherries,  citron  and 
orange  rind,  and  one-half  cup  of  chopped  or 
shredded   cocoanut. 

Beat  the  syrup  until  light  and  foamy,  then  stir 
in  the  fruit.  Pour  into  a  buttered  tin,  and  mark 
off  the   squares. 

FIG  CARAMELS— 

Take  any  dry  fig  and  run  through  a  grinder. 
Press  into  a  cake  and  cut  in  squares  about  the 
size  of  a  caramel.  Dip  in  confectioners'  melted 
chocolate,   sweetened  to  taste. 


— Page  Twelve 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


DAINTY  BARNETT  BITS- 
Two  pounds  of  black  or  white  fig's  (black  pre- 
ferred) dried;  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  two 
cups  of  black  walnut  meats.  Put  all  through  a 
meat-grinder  twice.  Knead  into  brick  form;  cut 
into  slices  about  one  inch  thick;  dip  in  powdered 
sugar;  wrap  in  oiled  paper.  The  longer  these  "bits" 
are  kept  the  more  delicious  they  become. 

FIG    FAVORS 

Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar;  one  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar;  one  cup  of  milk;  one  cup  of  chopped 
figs;  one  tablespoon  of  butter;  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.  Boil  the  sugar  and  the  milk  a  few  min- 
utes, add  the  butter;  boil  until  a  soft  ball  will  form 
in  water. 

Add  the  vanilla  and  the  figs,  beat  until  creamy, 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan.     Cut  in  squares. 

LOVERTIE   FANCIES— 

Three  cupfuls  white  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful 
Karo  corn  syrup  (Red  Label),  one-half  cupful  of 
water,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
baking-powder,  one  cupful  chopped  figs,  one-half 
teaspoonful  vanilla   extract. 

Put  sugar,  syrup  and  water  in  saucepan,  and 
boil  until  syrup  forms  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold 
water.  Add  the  baking-powder  to  the  egg  whites 
and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth;  take  syrup  from  fire,  add 
egg-froth,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  until  all  has  been 
added,  beating  constantly.  When  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  add  the  chopped  figs  and  the 
extract,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered pan  and  allow  to  cool.  Cut  into  tubes,  or 
cut  with  fancy  cutter.  Any  favorite  flavoring  may 
be  used.  This  candy  is  best  when  allowed  to  stand 
for  two  or  three  days. 

PERSIAN    SWEETS— 

One  pound  of  figs;  one  pound  of  dates;  one  pound 
of  English  walnut  meats;  confectioners'  sugar. 

Remove  the  stems  from  the  figs  and  the  stones 
from  the  dates;  mix  the  fruit  with  the  nut-meats 
and  force  through  a  meat-chopper.  Work  with  the 
hands  on  a  board  dredged  with  confectioners'  sugar, 
until  well-blended.  Roll  to  one-quarter  of  an  inch 
in  thickness,  shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  or 
cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  squares.  Roll  each  piece  in  confectioners' 
sugar.  Pack  in  layers  in  a  tin  box,  putting  waxed 
paper  between  each  layer.  These  confections  may 
be  used  at  dinner  in  place  of  bonbons  or  ginger 
chips. 


Page  Thirteen- 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


CHOCOLATE    DOMINOES— 

One-half  cup  of  pecan  meats;  one-half  cup  of 
English  walnut  meats;  one-half  cup  of  figs;  one- 
half  cup  of  dates;  the  grated  rind  of  one  orang-e; 
one  tablespoon  of  orang-e- juice;  one  square  of 
chocolate. 

Mix  the  nuts  and  fruit  and  put  through  a  food- 
chopper;  wet  with  the  orang-e- juice,  mix  in  the 
grated  rind,  and  roll  in  a  ball.  Lay  out  on  a 
baking-board  which  has  been  covered  with  con- 
fectioners' sugar,  sifted;  roll  to  one-half  inch  in 
thickness.  Cut  in  shapes  the  size  of  a  domino, 
and  spread  with  melted  chocolate.  On  the  top  lay- 
little  discs  cut  from  blanched  almonds  to  imitate 
dominoes. 


GLACE   FIGS— 

Put  figs  (fresh)  in  pan.  Make  syrup  to  cover  in 
proportion  of  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sug-ar  to  one 
cup  of  water.  Cook  until  fig-s  are  a  little  yellow 
and  keep  in  syrup  over  nig-ht.  Next  day,  cook  in 
same  syrup  half  an  hour  and  ag-ain  leave  over 
night,  then  cook  until  stem  is  transparent,  and 
leave  until  cold.  Then  drain  on  plate,  spread  on 
mosquito  netting-  stretched  over  pan  or  tray,  and 
dry  thoroughly.  Wet  the  netting-  before  placing 
the  fruit  upon  it.  The  Kadota  fig-  is  recommended 
for  this  purpose. 


FIG   CANDY— 

Boil  over  a  slow  fire  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
a  half- pint  of  water,  until  the  syrup  hardens  when 
dropped  into  cold  water.  Add  half  a  teaspoon  of 
vinegar  and  remove  from  the  fire,  stirring-  once 
or  twice  before  pouring-  over  a  layer  of  fig-s  placed 
in  a  deep  dish.  Dried  fig-s  may  be  used  either 
previously  soaked  an  hour  in  cold  water,  or  those 
perfectly  dry.  The  dried  fig-  is  more  apt  to  give 
g-ood  results  than  the  fresh  fig-. 


ALVERSON    ANGELICS— 

Two  cups  of  sug-ar;  one-half  cup  of  water;  one- 
half  cup  of  corn  syrup;  boil  until  the  mixture  spins 
a  thread.  Three  cups  of  ground  dried  fig's;  two 
cups  of  ground  raisins;  one  cup  of  ground  English 
walnuts;  one  teaspoon  of  extract  of  nutmeg".  Have 
a  pan  greased  and  thickly  dusted  with  cocoanut; 
have  the  fig-s,  raisins,  nuts  and  extract  mixed.  As 
soon  as  the  syrup  threads,  take  from  the  stove  and 
beat  until  the  mixture  is  cloudy.  Fold  in  the  fruit 
mixture,  turn  out  in  the  prepared  pan,  and  dust 
the  top  with  cocoanut. 


— Page  Fourteen 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


CANDIED    CAUMYRNAS— 

Take  the  ripe  Calimyrna  figs  before  they  begin 
to  dry  on  the  tree,  those  just  right  for  canning; 
dry  them  in  the  sun  for  four  or  five  days;  don't 
let  them  sour.  When  well- dried,  pack  them  down 
in  sugar,  layer  upon  layer,  the  sugar  between  each 
layer.  In  five  days  they  will  be  ready  for  eating. 
The  result  of  this  simple  treatment  will  be  found 
most  pleasing. 


Page  Fifteen— 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


TARTS  AND  WAFERS 


ELLETA   TARTLETS— 

One-half  pound  of  dried  fig's;  three  tablespoon  - 
fuls  of  sugar;  two  eggs;  three- fourths  pint  of 
water;  one-half  cupful  chopped  English  walnut- 
meats;   a   few   drops   of   lemon- juice;   some   pastry. 

Line  some  tartlet  tins  with  pastry;  cut  the  figs 
into  small  pieces  and  simmer  in  the  water  for  a 
half  hour,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  the  sugar. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  cool,  then  add  the  nut- 
meats,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well-beaten. 
Divide  the  mixture  into  the  prepared  tins  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  ready.  Make  a  meringue  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  remainder  of  the  sugar, 
and  the  lemon-juice.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the 
tartlets  and  brown  slightly. 

FRESNO    FIG   TART— 

Select  a  dozen  choice  dried  figs  and  stew  them 
in  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Add  two  cloves, 
a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  a  piece  of 
preserved  gingrer,  chopped  fine.  When  tender  take 
out  the  figs  and  remove  the  spices.  Add  enough 
sugar  to  the  water  to  make  a  g"ood  syrup  and  a 
couple  of  spoonfuls  of  ginger  syrup.  Then  boil  fof 
five  minutes,  and  add  a  little  hot  water  if  it  gets 
too  thick.  Next  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice 
and  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Return  the  figs  to  the 
syrup  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Put  one  or  two  figs 
and  a  spoonful  of  the  syrup  in  each  tart  shell 
before  serving. 

No.  2. — Whip  one -half  cup  of  rich  cream  until 
stiff,  and  sweeten  lightly.  Add  one -half  cup  of 
dried  figs,  cut  fine,  preferably  into  minute  dices 
by  aid  of  a  sharp  knife.  Stir  these  very  lightly 
into  the  cream  and  sugar  a  few  at  a  time.  Fill 
puff-paste  shells  with  the  mixture  and  sprinkle 
with  maple  syrup  or  dust  with  cinnamon,  accord- 
ing to  taste. 


-Page  Sixteen 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG-PECAN    WAFERS— 

Beat  two  egg  whites  quite  stiff,  adding  two  cups 
brown  sugar,  add  one  cup  broken  pecans,  dusted 
with  salt,  and  one  cup  fig's  cut  in  bits.  Drop  from 
teaspoon  on  buttered  tin  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

BERT  R.   DELIGHTS— 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  shortening" — mix 
thoroughly;  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  tea- 
spoons of  baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff;  roll  thin,  cut  with  a 
cookie  cutter  and  bake  two  together  with  fig  jam 
between. 

A   FRESNO   FAVORITE— 

One  cup  of  sugar;  one -half  cup  of  butter;  three 
eggs;  one-fourth  cup  of  milk;  one  cup  of  figs; 
three-fourths  cup  of  English  walnut-meats;  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  milk  and  figs,  which  have  been  cooked  in  a 
little  water  until  tender. 

Line  gem  pans  with  pie  paste,  put  in  mixture, 
and  bake.  Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  powdered 
sugar  and  vanilla  for  meringue.  Brown  if  liked. 
This  makes  twelve  tarts. 


m 


<5M 


Page  Seventeen — 


THE    J.    C.    PORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  ICES 


A   FROSTY  FAVORITE— 

One  quart  of  thin  cream,  one- fourth  cup  of 
sugar;  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  vanilla;  two 
cups  of  figs.  Grind  the  figs,  let  them  soak  a  few 
hours  in  the  cream,  then  add  sugar  and  flavoring 
and  freeze  in  the  usual  way. 


TUTTI-FRUTTI    ICE   CREAM— 

Two  cups  of  milk;  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  thin  cream;  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  sugar;  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt;  one 
tablespoon  of  vanilla;  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of 
fruit  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  first  four  ingredients, 
strain  and  cool;  add  the  cream  and  the  flavoring, 
then  freeze  to  the  consistency  of  mush;  add  the 
fruit   and   continue  freezing. 

It  may  be  served  this  way,  or  put  into  a  mold, 
packed  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  two  hours, 
then  slice. 

For  the  fruit,  use  candied  cherries,  dates,  pine- 
apples, figs,  Sultana  raisins  and  citron,  all  or  a 
part  of  them. 

CHILLED   CHEER— 

One  pint  of  cream,  white  of  one  egg,  sugar  to 
taste,  one-half  cupful  of  ground  walnuts,  twelve 
figs,  six  dates.  Beat  up  the  cream  until  stiff  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  which  adds  to  the  stiffness 
and  bulk.  Sweeten  the  cream  to  taste,  add  the 
ground  walnuts,  the  figs  and  the  dates  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Mix  carefully  and  put  into  a  wet 
mold;  cover  tightly  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Allow 
it  to  so  remain  for  four  hours.  This  quantity  will 
serve  eight  persons. 


— Page  Eighteen 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


STARR    FIG    PARFAIT— 

One  pint  of  whipping  cream;  four  eggs;  one- 
fourth  cup  of  sugar;  three  tablespoons  of  water; 
one-half  pound  of  figs  after  grinding. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  the  water  in  a  small  dish 
until  it  just  begins  to  "spin  a  thread,"  then  pour 
over  the  well-beaten  eggs,  beating  continually.  Let 
cool.  Whip  the  cream,  add  the  figs,  and  with  a 
fork  mix  them  well  through  the  cream;  add  the 
egg  and  the  syrup,   and  pour  into  a  mold. 

Pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  freeze  about  four  hours. 

If  small  molds  are  used  (baking-powder  cans  are 
good;  not  as  much  time  is  required  for  freezing. 
Dip  a  narrow  strip  of  muslin  in  melted  gauze  and 
stretch  tightly  around  where  the  can  and  the  lid 
join  to  insure  keeping  out  the  salty  water. 

PAYNE  WH IP- 
One  pound  of  figs;  one  pint  of  whipping  cream; 
one  cup  of  English  walnut-meats;  one-half  cup  of 
powdered  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Chop 
the  figs;  cut  the  nuts  into  small  pieces;  whip  the 
cream  until  stiff;  add  the  nuts,  sugar  and  figs. 
Flavor,  chill  and  serve. 


HAWAIIAN    FRAPPED   FIGS— 

Ripe  figs,  one  quart;  cream,  one  quart;  sugar, 
one  cup;  sherry,  one-half  cup.  Whip  the  cream 
until  very  stiff;  add  the  sugar  and  the  sherry.  Cut 
the  figs  in  pieces,  and  place  in  a  freezer  in  alter- 
nate layers  of  fruit  and  cream.  Let  it  stand  until 
frozen. 


FIG    ICE   CREAM— 

For  two  quarts  of  fig  ice  cream,  mix  one  quart 
of  cream  with  two  cups  of  sugar  and  freeze  par- 
tially. Then  add  to  the  mixture  two  cups  of  fig 
marmalade,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract,  and  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  with  which  has  been  whipped  a  pinch  of  salt 
— and  finish  freezing. 

FIG    ICE   CREAM,  2— 

Stir  together  one  pint  of  cream,  one  pint  of  new 
milk,  and  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar.  Place  on 
stove  and  bring  to  a  boil.  In  a  separate  vessel 
should  have  been  stewed  one  cup  of  chopped  dried 
figs  or  two  cups  of  fresh  figs  in  one- half  cup  of 
water.  Add  to  the  hot  milk  and  let  cool.  Then 
freeze,  adding  at  the  last  moment  either  pineapple 
or  lemon  extract  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
This  will  make  nearly  two  quarts. 


Page  Nineteen- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG   ICE— 

Peel  two  quarts  of  fresh  figs  and  stir  well  with 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  its  grated  peel,  or 
one  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  some  fruit  acid  and 
two  cups  of  sugar.  Add  two  cups  of  water  and 
freeze. 

FIG   ICE— 

Make  a  lemonade  or  orangeade  and  to  each 
quart  of  liquid  add  one  pound  of  chopped  figs  and 
a  half- cupful  of  fine  chopped  nuts.  A  little  lemon 
extract  may  be  added.     Freeze. 

FIG    ICE   CREAM— 

Make  the  usual  foundation  ice  cream,  adding  to 
it  for  each  quart  a  cupful  or  more  of  shredded 
figs,  then  freeze.     Flavor  to  suit  taste. 


5&V 


Iff 


(AIA) 


-Page  Twenty 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


BREAKFAST  SPECIALS 


WHEATENA  WITH    FIGS— 

Three-fourths  cup  of  Wheatena,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  three-fourths  cup  of  cold  water,  two  and 
one-fourths  cups  of  boiling-  water,  one-half  pound 
(one  cup;   chopped  figs. 

Mix  the  Wheatena,  salt  and  cold  water.  Add  to 
this  a  little  of  the  boiling  water,  then  pour  the 
paste  into  the  remainder  of  the  boiling  water  and 
let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Put  it  into  a  double  boiler 
and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  the  chopped  figs, 
washed  very  thoroughly,  when  the  Wheatena  is 
put  into  the  double  boiler.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold,  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar.  It  may  be 
molded  in   cups  and  chilled  before   serving. 

SOUTHERN   WAFFLES— 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  corn-meal  mush;  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  milk;  one-half  cup  of  ground 
or  chopped  figs;  three  teaspoons  of  baking-powder; 
one-half  teaspon  of  salt;  two  eggs;  three  table- 
spoons of  shortening;  three  cups   of  flour. 

Add  milk  to  mush;  add  the  dry  ingredients, 
mixed;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  the  shortening  and 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cook  in  waffle 
irons. 

POTATOES  AND  FIGS— 

One  cup  of  coarsely- chopped  figs;  two  cups  of 
mashed  sweet  potatoes  (boiled  in  skin  until  done)  ; 
one-half  cup  of  cream;  a  little  salt  and  cinnamon; 
two  eggs  well- beaten. 

Mix,  folding  in  the  eggs  at  the  last.  Drop  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  on  well-greased  pie-pans;  bake 
one-half  hour,  or  until  brown. 


Page  Twenty- one — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIGS  AND  CORN-FLAKES— 

There  cannot  be  found  a  more  delicious  breakfast 
dish  than  fresh  fig-s  peeled  and  sliced  into  corn- 
flakes,  and  served  with  cream. 

HOME    JOURNAL  CRACKERS— 

Put  one  pound  of  chopped  figs,  one  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  cold  water 
together  and  boil  the  mixture  until  soft.  Allow  to 
cool.  Cream  one  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cup 
of  butter,  or  other  shortening,-  add  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  rolled  oats,  and  two  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour.  Mix  well  with  the  hands.  Add  one-half 
cup  of  warm  water  in  which  disolve  one  teaspoon 
of  soda. 

Divide  the  doug-h  into  two  equal  parts,  roll  very 
thin,  spread  the  fig  mixture  on  one  layer,  cover 
with  the  second  layer  and  cut  in  squares.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven  to  a  light  brown.  These  are  fine  with 
coffee,   or  to  be  used  as  a  regnlar  cookie. 


6\IA> 


•Page  Twenty-two 


THE    J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


STUFFED  FIGS 


A    MARIE   CONCEIT— 

Select  natural  or  pressed  figs,  remove  the  stems, 
and  wash  in  hot  water.  Put  into  a  steamer  or 
colander  over  a  dish  of  hot  water,  cover  closely 
and  steam  until  thoroughly  softened,  then  remove 
from  the  heat.  When  cool,  stuff  each  fig-  with  a 
walnut-meat  by  making  an  opening  in  the  side  of 
the  fig  and  enclosing  the  nut.  Sprinkle  the  figs 
with  granulated  sugar. 

STUFFED    FIGS— 

One  pound  of  pulled  figs,  one -half  pound  of 
mixed  nuts.  The  nut  mixture  may  consist  of 
almonds,  pecans,  English  walnuts  and  pinon.  Chop 
them  very  fine.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until 
partly  light;  then  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  beat  until  stiff.  Stir  the  nuts 
into  this  paste,  add  a  half  of  the  grated  yellow 
rind  of  an  orange  or  a  little  vanilla;  mix  thor- 
oughly. Split  the  figs  carefully  on  one  side;  scoop 
out  a  portion  of  the  inside  flesh;  mix  it  with  the 
nuts;  then  stuff  the  figs  until  they  are  quite  dis- 
tended, putting  the  skin  together  so  that  the  split 
may  not  be  seen.  Arrange  on  a  paper  mat  in  a 
pretty  glass  dish,  and  serve  as  dessert. 

SUGARED    ROLLS— 

Remove  the  inside  of  steamed  or  fresh  figs  and 
mix  the  part  removed  with  chopped  nuts  moistened 
with  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  tart  fruit-juice  (cooked 
or  uncooked).     Roll  in  sugar  and  serve. 


Page  Twenty-three — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  PASTES 


A   PICNIC   DELIGHT— 

Treat  the  figs  with  a  soda  bath  as  for  pre- 
serves, rinse  and  cook  until  tender,  in  fresh  clear 
boiling  water.  Drain  well  and  put  the  fig's  through 
a  food-chopper  or  rub  pulp  through  a  colander. 
Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  pulp. 
Mix  and  cook  until  it  is  rather  a  solid  mass.  Spread 
with  an  oiled  spatula  on  the  oiled  surface  of  a 
flat  dish,  marble  or  glass  slab,  and  finish  drying 
in  the  sun.  Three  or  four  days  will  be  required 
for  drying.  The  trays  should  be  brought  into  the 
house  each  night,  and  they  should  be  protected 
from  both  flying  and  crawling  insects.  When  thor- 
oughly dry,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  roll  it 
up  and  wrap  tightly  in  a  cloth.  It  will  keep  for  a 
long  period  of  time. 

FIG    BUTTER— 

Chop  together  equal  parts  of  figs,  seeded  raisins 
and  stoned  dates,  and  add  (after  weighing)  nuts 
equal  in  weight  to  the  whole.  The  nuts  may  be 
mixed  according  to  convenience  or  taste,  as  one 
part  each  of  black  and  white  walnuts,  pecans, 
almonds,  peanuts,  hazel  or  Brazil  nuts.  Mix  thor- 
oughly together  and   pack  in  a  mould   for  slicing. 

FIG-PASTE    LAXATIVE— 

One-half  pound  of  figs,  one  pound  of  prunes,  one 
ounce  of  Senna  leaves,  cold  water. 

Soak  the  prunes  over-night  in  cold  water  to 
cover,  add  the  Senna  leaves  tied  in  cheesecloth, 
and  cook  slowly  until  prunes  are  tender.  Stone 
the  prunes  and  chop  fine;  add  the  figs,  chopped 
fine;  put  in  top  of  double  boiler,  remove  Senna, 
add  prune-juice,  and  cook  until  thick. 


-Page  Twenty- four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


TOWNEY   PASTE— 

1. — Pick  the  figs  fully  ripe,  split  and  scrape  off 
the  pulp,  mash  and  strain  and  let  come  to  a  boil, 
constantly  stirring1.  To  ten  pounds  of  fig-pulp  add 
one  pound  grated  cocoanut  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  After  boiling  a  half-hour  spread  on  plates 
and  dry  in  the  sun.  When  fully  dried  keep  in  an 
air-tight  place  if  possible.  When  ready  to  use, 
soak  in  warm  water  over  night  and  boil  in  the 
same  water. 

2. — Figs  must  be  very  ripe.  Wash  in  water, 
steam  in  colander  for  a  few  minutes,  then  rub 
through  a  sieve,  using  best  rubber  gloves  on  the 
hands.  The  rubber  gloves  must  have  been  pre- 
viously washed  several  times  in  hot  water  in  order 
to  remove  the  taste  of  the  rubber.  The  mushy 
pulp  is  then  placed  in  jars  and  steamed  for  forty- 
five  minutes  or  more.  If  not  sweet,  add  sugar  to 
taste.  Spread  the  mush  on  glass  or  marble  to  dry 
in  the  sun  or  in  heated  air.  Fig  sauce  is  made 
in  the  same  manner,  except  that  it  is  preserved 
in  jars  while  yet  mushy  instead  of  drying  in  the 
sun. 

3. — Pick  the  figs  when  well  ripened,  but  not  so 
soft  as  to  be  difficult  to  handle.  Peel  them,  weigh, 
and  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  best  gran- 
ulated sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Mix  sugar  and 
fruit  thoroughly  with  your  hands,  or  by  mashing 
together  with  a  large  potato  masher,  and  let  the 
mixture  stand  over  night.  Prepare  the  afternoon 
before,  if  the  weather  is  very  hot,  but  if  it  is  not 
they  can  stand  from  one  forenoon  to  the  next.  In 
the  morning  put  them  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
let  the  paste  heat  slowly,  stirring  occasionally. 
Then,  when  ready  to  give  it  your  whole  attention, 
pull  forward  and  "cook  down"  over  a  rather  slow 
fire,  stirring  and  mashing  almost  constantly.  There 
must  not  be  a  single  lump  left  in  the  mass.  If 
desired,  some  of  the  seeds'  which  rise  and  accumu- 
late on  the  sides  of  the  preserving  kettle  may  be 
skimmed  out.  The  amount  of  cooking  down  done 
is  according  to  taste.  The  paste  is  better  when 
well  cooked  down,  but  if  this  is  done,  great  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  burn  the  paste  at  the  last, 
when  it  is  quite  thick.  It  is  so  rich  that  for  small 
families  it  should  be  put  into  pint  or  half- pint  jars. 


Page  Twenty- five- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  MARMALADES 


A    FREDA    FAVORITE— 

One  pound  of  figs,  three  pounds  of  rhubarb,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  lemon,  one  teaspoon  of  ginger, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
of   salt. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  unpeeled  into  inch  pieces;  wash 
the  figs  and  put  them  through  a  food- chopper;  put 
in  preserving  kettle  with  half  of  sugar  and  let 
stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  boil  until  clear, 
then  add  remaining  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  lemon,  and  seasoning.  Cook  slowly  until 
thickened. 

WHITE-FIG    MARMALADE— 

A  delicious  marmalade  is  made  from  white  figs. 
Take  perfectly  ripe  and  fresh  figs,  peel  off  the  thin 
soft  skin,  and  to  every  two  pounds  of  figs  use  one 
and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  grated  peel 
of  a  large  orange  or  lemon;  cut  up  the  figs  and 
mash  them  with  sugar,  adding  the  grated  yellow 
rind  and  juice  of  the  orange  or  lemon;  boil  all 
together  until  the  whole  is  reduced  to  a  thick, 
clear,  smooth  mass,  stirring  frequently  from  the 
bottom.  When  done  put  into  jars  while  hot  and 
cover  closely. 

Those  who  Jike  less  sugar  can  use  one-half 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  it  will 
keep  perfectly,  provided  it  be  boiled  very  clear 
and  smooth. 

J.   W.  T.   MARMALADE— 

Ten  pounds  of  ripe,  peeled  figs,  ten  pounds  of 
sugar;  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir 
the  figs  and  the  sugar  until  all  are  dissolved;  cook 
for  two  or  three  hours  slowly.  May  add  orange, 
lemon  and  walnuts,  or  pineapple  well  cooked  and 
chopped  fine. 


— Page  Twenty- six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


TRIXSE    MARMALADE— 

Use  only  fully-ripe  figs.  When  they  are  con- 
siderably wilted  they  are  cut.  Cut  in  halves  and 
scrape  out  the  inside  pulp;  mash  and  strain 
through  a  very  coarse  sieve.  Put  into  a  glazed 
dish  and  place  the  latter  in  boiling-  water.  Boil 
constantly  for  one-half  hour  and  place  in  sealed 
glass  jars,  like  canned  fruit.  This  marmalade  is 
very  fine;  can  be  eaten  with  meat  or  alone  with 
cream.  It  is  a  fine  relish  if  made  from  good,  sweet 
figs. 


Page  Twenty- seven — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  PRESERVES 


FIG  AND  GRAPE   PRESERVES— 

White  figs  and  Muscat  grapes  are  sometimes 
preserved  together,  the  second  crop  of  figs  coming 
in  season  to  can  with  the  grapes.  Pick  the  figs 
when  their  skins  begin  to  crack,  peel,  weigh,  and 
allow  one- half  pound  of  best  granulated  sugar  to 
one  pound  of  fruit.  Mix  the  fruit  and  sugar  care- 
fully (not  breaking  the  figs>,  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  cook  slowly  on  the 
back  of  your  stove,  stirring  carefully  at  intervals. 
In  the  morning,  also  prepare  your  Muscat  grapes 
by  picking  them  from  their  stems,  washing,  weigh- 
ing, and  allowing  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit  (and  as  many  grapes  by  weight  as 
figs;.  Cook  in  another  kettle,  using  only  a  very 
little  water — just  enough  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing. They  will  cook  after  starting  to  boil,  in  about 
ten  minutes.  The  figs  will  need  cooking  nearly  an 
hour.  When  both  fruits  are  done,  mix  carefully 
together,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  can. 

GOLDEN   WEST   PRESERVES— 

Take  three-fourths  pound  sugar  and  half  cup  of 
water  to  each  pound  of  figs.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar  and  water,  skim,  add  the  figs,  carefully} 
washed  and  dried,  and  let  simmer  until  the  skin 
of  the  figs  is  tender,  then  store  as  any  preserves. 
For  a  less  sweet  dish,  use  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a 
cup  of  water  to  enough  figs  to  fill  a  quart  jar; 
make  the  syrup  and  let  cook  as  before,  but  store 
as  canned  fruit  in  sterile  jars,  filled  to  overflow 
and  sealed  with  rubbers  and  sterile  covers.  Lemon 
or  orange  rind  and  juice,  or  sherry  wine,  all  in 
quantity  according  to  taste,  may  be  added. 

TEEL   PRESERVES— 

Ten  pounds  of  well-washed  ripe  figs,  ten  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  water  to  make  a  syrup;  boil  half  an 
hour,  place  figs  in  syrup,  and  boil  slowly  about 
two  hours. 


-Page  Twenty- eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


SIMPLICITY    PRESERVES— 

Gather  the  fruit  when  fully  ripe,  but  not  cracked 
open;  place  in  a  perforated  tin  bucket  or  wire 
basket  and  dip  for  one  moment  into  a  deep  kettle 
of  hot  and  moderately  strong-  lye  (some  prefer 
letting-  them  lie  an  hour  in  limewater,  and  after- 
wards drain ) ;  make  a  syrup  in  proportion  of  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  and  when 
the  figs  are  well- drained  put  them  in  the  syrup  and 
boil  them  until  well-cooked;  removing,  boil  the 
syrup  down  until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover  the 
fruit;  put  the  fruit  back  in  the  syrup,  let  all  boil, 
and  seal  while  hot  in  glass  or  porcelain  jars. 


BERGEN    PRESERVES— 

Take  figs  as  soon  as  they  are  sufficiently  ripe 
to  peel  well,  peel  and  place  in  sun  for  a  couple  of 
days,  turning  them  several  times;  take  in,  wash 
in  hot  water,  draining  at  once;  put  the  figs,  a  few 
at  a  time,  in  a  rich  syrup  and  let  cook  for  several 
hours,  until  thoroughly  preserved.  In  this  process 
the  figs  remain  whole  and  are  a  most  dainty 
offering. 


FARNUM    PRESERVES— 

Split  the  figs  twice,  crosswise,  from  blossom  and 
about  half-way.  Put  them  in  a  dish  and  cover 
with  cold  water  in  which  a  full  tablespoonful  of 
medium-strong  lye  has  been  dissolved.  Leave  the 
figs  in  this  solution  for  thirty- six  hours,  stirring 
every  two  or  three  hours.  Take  them  out  and  rinse 
well,  first  in  cold  water,  then  in  warm  (not  boil- 
ing) water,  then  in  cold  water,  then  in  hot  water, 
and  again  in  cold  water.  In  the  meantime,  have 
your  syrup  boiled — with  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves 
in  a  bag  for  seasoning.  Boil  the  figs  slowly  in  the 
syrup  for  four  hours,  or  until  the  figs  are  trans- 
parent. 


T.   B.   W.    PRESERVES— 

Soak  the  figs  over  night  in  moderately  strong- 
alum -water.  Next  morning,  to  one  pound  of  figs 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  (preferably 
brown) ;  let  stand  until  the  sugar  becomes  moist, 
then  put  in  to  cook.  When  the  figs  turn  a  light 
brown,  put  them  on  a  platter  in  the  sun  for 
twenty  minutes  (allowing  the  syrup  to  still  boil, 
but  slowly) ;  then  put  the  figs  back  in  the  kettle 
and  cook  until  they  take  on  a  dark  brown  color. 
Some  like  the  flavor  of  ginger  or  orange  peel,  but 
the  preserve  is  delicious  with  but  the  flavor  given 
by  the  fig. 


Page  Twenty- nine — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


MICHAELI    PRESERVES— 

Peel  enough  fig's  to  make  a  gallon  of  preserves; 
let  stand  over  night,  with  sugar,  to  form  their 
own  juice.  Next  morning,  cook  the  figs  until  nearly 
done;  add  a  little  more  than  a  cupful  of  chopped 
walnuts,  and  a  thinly- sliced  lemon.  This  makes 
a  fine  filling  for  cakes,  or  a  tasty  spread  for  bread. 

PRESERVED    FIGS  WITH    GINGER— 

Ten  pounds  of  fresh,  ripe  figs,  not  shriveled,  are 
peeled  of  the  thick,  outside  skin.  As  all  figs  are 
not  peeled  readily,  a  variety  which  peels  must  be 
selected.  Take  the  peel  of  one  orange  or  lemon, 
pare  well,  and  use  none  of  the  inner  white  part 
or  rag.  Take  one  ginger  root  and  shave  it  very 
thinly  with  a  sharp  knife.  Boil  the  peel  and  the 
ginger  until  very  tender  in  a  separate  kettle.  In 
another  kettle  make  a  syrup  of  six  pounds  of  best 
white  sugar,  enough  of  water  to  dissolve;  add  the 
juice  of  four  oranges  and  one  lemon  or  four 
lemons.  When  ready,  add  the  decoction  of  the 
orange  peel  and  ginger,  but  take  care  to  first 
strain.  Bring  the  syrup  to  a  simmer,  drop  in  the 
peeled  figs  and  simmer  under  cover  until  clear 
and  tender,  which  requires  more  or  less  time,  ac- 
cording to  the  variety  of  figs  used  and  their  state 
of  ripeness. 

No.  2. — Pick  before  quite  ripe,  peel  and  put  into 
dishes,  with  sugar,  for  twelve  hours,  usually  over 
night;  drain  off  juice  into  preserving  kettle,  and 
after  coming  to  a  boil  put  in  figs  for  a  short  time; 
take  up  in  dishes  again  and  expose  to  sun  while 
syrup  is  boiling  down;  then  return  the  figs,  and 
when  they  begin  to  look  clear  take  up  and  ex- 
pose to  the  sun  again  while  reducing  the  syrup  to 
desired  thickness;  then  return  figs  to  syrup  and 
let  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  being  careful  not 
to  have  too  hot  a  fire  and  thus  burst  the  figs;  use 
a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit. 

No.  3. — Pick  figs  fully  ripe,  but  not  shriveled. 
Scald  first  in  hot  water,  change  water  several  times 
in  order  to  draw  out  the  milky  juice.  Pack  figs 
in  glass  jars  in  rows  and  handsomely.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one  cup  of  sugar  to  two  of  water.  Pour 
over  figs  and  steam  for  twenty  minutes  without 
rubber  band.  Then  place  on  the  rubber  bands; 
steam  for  twenty-five  minutes  more  with  the  cover 
lightly  pressed  down.  A  very  superior  article  is 
made  if  the  figs  are  first  steamed  in  a  colander 
until  tender,  then  packed  in  glass  and  steamed 
with  the  syrup.  An  apricot  kernel  or  a  bitter 
almond  may  be  added  to  each  jar,  or,  better,  grated 
and  boiled  with  the  syrup  before  pouring  over  the 
figs.  No  more  than  one  kernel  is  needed  for  each 
jar. 


-Page  Thirty 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A   DRIED-FIG    DAINTY— 

Take  three  pounds  of  dried  fig's  and  wash  them; 
cover  with  hot  water  and  sop.k  over  night;  next 
morning-  drain  oft"  the  juice;  add  one  pound  of 
sugar  and  heat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  add 
the  figs,  and  boil  slowly  until  the  juice  has  thick- 
ened to  a  syrup.  If  the  figs  have  taken  up  the 
juice,  add  enough  hot  water  to  provide  a  sufficient 
syrup  for  the  figs.  Put  in  jars  while  hot.  This 
will  keep  indefinitely. 

FIG  TRANSPARENCIES- 
SIX  quarts  of  figs,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  baking  soda,  six  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
three  quarts  of  water.  Select  firm,  sound  fruit, 
discard  all  over- ripe  or  broken  figs.  Sprinkle  one 
cupful  of  baking  soda  over  the  selected  figs  and 
cover  with  about  six  quarts  of  boiling*  water.  Allow 
them  to  stand  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  this 
soda  solution,  and  rinse  the  figs  well  in  clear,  cold 
water.  Let  the  figs  drain  while  syrup  is  being 
prepared.  Mix  sugar  and  the  three  quarts  of  water, 
boil  for  ten  minutes  and  skim.  Add  well- drained 
figs  gradually  so  as  not  to  cool  the  syrup.  Cook 
rapidly  until  the  figs  are  clear  and  tender — about 
two  hours.  When  the  figs  are  transparent,  lift 
them  out  carefully  and  place  in  shallow  pans.  If 
the  syrup  is  not  heavy  enough  (testing  to  about  SO 
to  55  degrees  with  a  saccharometer),  continue  boil- 
ing until  it  reaches  the  desired  density,  then  pour 
it  over  the  figs,  being  careful  to  see  that  the  fruit 
is  entirely  covered.  Let  stand  over  night.  Next 
morning  pack  the  figs  cold  in  sterilized  jars,  having 
stems  all  the  same  length  and  placing  the  figs  so 
that  all  stems  will  be  upward.  Fill  each  jar  to 
overflowing  with  the  syrup  of  55  degrees  density. 
Cap,  clamp,  process  and  seal  immediately. 

SAN    JOAQUIN    SWEETS— 

Heat  fresh  figs  through  thoroughly  in  a  steamer, 
double  boiler  or  slow  oven  without  water,  then 
drop  them  into  a  heavy,  boiling  syrup;  remove  and 
let  stand  in  it  over  night.  In  the  morning  bring 
to  a  boil,  remove;  let  stand  till  cold;  re-heat ;j 
drain;  pack  figs  close  together  in  jars;  cook  down 
the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  Figs  may  be 
preserved  in  lemon  syrup,  in  grape -juice,  or  other 
tart  fruit  juices,  or  have  added  to  them  lemon 
peel  and  juice  or  lemon  and  ginger   root. 

Dried  figs  may  be  steamed  and  then  so  pre- 
served or  by  the  simpler  process.  Many  people 
hold  that  preserved  figs  must  first  be  dipped  in 
boiling  lye,  repeating  several  times,  a  minute  at  a 
time. 


Page  Thirty- one- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


VROOMAN    PRESERVES— 

Gather  the  fig's  with  the  stems  on  just  before 
they  are  ripe  enough  to  be  eaten.  Scrape  off  the 
skin  carefully  and  drop  the  figs  into  a  kettle  of 
clear,  boiling  water,  and  leave  half  an  hour.  Then 
take  out  and  allow  to  cool  with  the  stems  up. 
Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sug-ar  and 
a  half- pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Boil 
the  syrup  till  nearly  roping;  put  in  the  fig's  care- 
fully and  keep  them  under  the  water  while  cooking. 
If  other  than  the  natural  flavor  is  desired,  put  a 
clove  in  the  blossom  end  of  each  fig  or  cook  them 
with  a  sliced  lemon  from  which  the  seeds  have 
been  removed,  adding  a  little  ginger.  The  pre- 
serves keep  well  if  made  with  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  and  fig's. 


-Page  Thirty-two 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  SALAD 


RUTH    SALAD— 

One -half  pound  of  cooked  figs,  three  oranges, 
one  head  of  lettuce,  three  or  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
oil,  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonfui  of  salt. 

Dispose  the  heart  leaves  of  the  lettuce,  care- 
fully washed  and  dried,  to  form  a  bed;  on  this 
turn  the  pulp  of  the  oranges,  freed  from  skin  mem- 
brane and  seeds;  above  dispose  the  figs,  cut  in  nar- 
row slices.  Dissolve  the  salt  in  the  lemon-juice, 
add  the  oil,  mix  thoroughly  and  pour  over  the 
whole;  turn  the  fruit  over  and  over,  and  serve  at 
once. 

MIXED-FRUIT   SALAD— 

One  package  of  Jiffy  Jell;  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts;  one  small  can  of  pineapple;  one -fourth  cup 
of  chopped  figs;  one  individual  bottle  of  Welch's 
or  Armour's  grape-juice.  Dissolve  the  Jiffy  Jell 
in  the  grape-juice  to  make  one  pint.  Pick  the 
pineapple  apart,  and  put  into  small  molds  with  the 
chopped  mixture.  Pour  over  the  liquid,  and  put 
on  ice  to  chill.  When  cool  place  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Serve  with   boiled  mayonnaise  or  whipped   cream. 

SALAD   DE    LUXE— 

Combine  marshmallows,  figs,  apples,  nuts  and 
green  grapes.  Cut  the  marshmalows  in  four 
pieces;  cut  the  figs  in  pieces,  dice  the  apples,  seed 
the  grapes.  Have  equal  parts  of  each,  and  mix 
with  a  fruit  salad  dressing.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves, 
and  put  the  dressing  on  top. 

FIG   AND    DATE   SALAD— 

Use  large,  fresh  figs  and  dates;  slice,  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  either  cream  or 
French  dressing. 


Page  Thirty-three- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG   AND    NUT  SALAD— 

Slice  pulled  figs,  cooked  and  cooled,  and  mix 
with  them  a  few  slices  of  walnuts  or  blanched 
almonds.  Serve  with  French  dressing-  made  of 
claret  and  lemon-juice  instead  of  vinegar,  or  with 
a  cream  dressing.  In  using  the  cream  dressing, 
mix  the  ingredients  with  a  little  of  the  dressing 
and  dispose  of  additional  dressing  here  and  there, 
using  the  forcing  bag  and  tube.  When  available, 
fresh  figs  are  preferable  to  those  that  have  been 
cooked. 


CHEESE-FIG   SALAD— 

Place  lettuce  on  salad  plates,  then  a  slice  of 
pineapple;  cut  the  figs  lengthwise,  laying,  them  over 
the  pineapple;  put  Neufchatel  cheese  over  the  figs, 
then  a   good,    creamy  salad   dressing. 


PEANUT   SALAD— 

One  cupful  of  thinly- sliced  apple;  one  cupful 
chopped  celery;  one-half  cupful  chopped  figs;  one- 
half  cupful  of  roasted  peanuts;  lettuce  and  mayon- 
naise. 


FRUIT  SALAD— 

Three  apples;  two  oranges;  one  small  can  of 
pineapple;  two  bananas;  one  scant  cup  of  figs. 
Walnuts  and  maarshmallows  to  be  added;  cut  all 
into  small  pieces.  Heap  this  over  lettuce  leaves, 
and,  just  before  serving,  add  a  good  creamy  salad 
dressing. 

MIXED  SALAD— 

One  cup  of  chopped  figs;  one-third  cup  of  grated 
cheese;  one  cup  of  celery;  one  cup  of  diced  apples; 
one  cup  of  mayonnaise;  three  tablespoons  of  nut- 
meats;  one  head  of  lettuce.  Mix  the  ingredients 
with  the  mayonnaise,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. 

FIG-BANANA  SALAD— 

Peel  as  many  chilled  bananas  as  there  are  per- 
sons to  be  served.  Split  lengthwise,  and  put  the 
halves  together  with  a  filling  of  figs,  English  wal- 
nuts, and  preserved  ginger,  chopped  fine  and 
moistened  with  lemon-juice. 

Arrange  on  individual  salad  plates.  Garnish 
with  lemon  and  watercress.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  mayonnaise.  The  ginger  may  be  omitted  if 
preferred. 


-Page  Thirty- four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 

CHERRY  SALAD— 

Use  the  white  canned  cherries.  Remove  the 
pits,  and  slip  into  each  cherry  a  small  piece  of 
nut.  Pack  in  a  dish  and  cover  with  the  juice  from 
the  cherries;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  ready 
to  serve.  Serve  five  or  six  cherries  and  two  or 
three  fig's  cut  in  halves  or  quarters  on  lettuce. 
Cover  with   salad  dressing-. 

FIG-CELERY  SALAD— 

One  cup  of  celery  cut  in  pieces;  one-half  cup 
of  chopped  figs;  one-third  cup  of  walnut  meats. 
Mix  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise 
or   cream   dressing-. 


^&^ 


Page  Thirty- five — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  PICKLES 


"LITTLE    MOTHER"   PICKLES— 

Two  dozen  figs;  one  quart  of  vinegar;  two  cup- 
fuls  of  sugar;  one  teaspoonful  of  mace;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves;   one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Select  firm,  ripe  fruit  and  put  it  in  brine  over 
night.  In  the  morning  take  out  and  soak  in  fresh 
water  for  two  hours;  remove  and  pour  over  them 
boiling  water  to  cover;  let  stand  until  cold,  and 
then  drain.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  the  sugar  in  a 
kettle,  add  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag;  skim  thor- 
oughly and  drop  in  the  figs.  Again  bring  the  mix- 
ture to  a  boiling  point,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
let  stand  in  the  kettle  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing, re-heat  to  boiling  and  seal  in  glass  jars. 

SPICED   FIGS— 

Peel  ripe,  white  figs,  and  to  ten  pounds  of  the 
figs  add  five  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce 
of  allspice,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  the  spices  to  be 
tied  in  bags  and  boiled  with  sugar  and  vinegar. 
When  the  vinegar  and  spices  have  come  to  a  boil 
add  the  figs,  a  few  at  a  time,  to  prevent  mashing, 
and  boil  until  they  look  clear.  When  all  are  done 
put  into  jars  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  hot. 

SWEET    PICKLED    FIGS— 

The  figs  are  picked  when  ripe,  but  must  not  be 
soft.  Steam  first  until  slightly  soft,  then  place  in 
a  liquor  made  as  follows:  A  syrup  is  made  of  a 
cup  of  sugar;  to  every  cup  of  water  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cider  vinegar,  one  stick  of  cinnamon, 
crushed  in  small  pieces.  Boil  the  liquor.  Insert  a 
clove  in  the  eye  of  each  fig  and  pack  in  a  glass 
jar.  Pour  the  filtered  liquor  over  the  figs.  Steam 
the  jars  first,  with  the  cover  on  loosely,  for 
twenty  minutes.  Then  place  on  the  rubber  bands, 
screw  down  cover  lightly,  and  steam  for  twenty 
minutes  more. 


-Page  Thirty- six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


PASADENA    PICKLES— 

Seven  pounds  of  figs  packed  just  before  shrivel- 
ing, three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cassia  buds. 
Boil  together  for  four  hours,  put  spices  in  a  thin 
bag  to  keep  pickles  clear,  and  more  vinegar  if  too 
much  evaporates  and  add  the  sugar  when  nearly 
ready.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  the  figs. 
Simmer  until  tender. 


FRESNO    FAVORITES— 

To  ten  pounds  of  figs  take  four  pounds  brown 
sugar,  one  quart  strong  vinegar,  one  large  cup  of 
whole  spices,  including  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice, 
and  cassia  buds.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices 
first,  and  when  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved  add  the 
figs  and  boil  until  tender.  The  figs  should  be 
picked  before  they  become  shriveled.  Put  all  in 
jars;  pour  out  the  liquid  for  three  mornings,  and 
let  come  to  a  boil  and  return  to  the  figs;  then 
close  the  jars. 

sunnyside  sweets- 
two  quarts  of  figs,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  level 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cloves.  Mix  the  spices,  and  tie  them  into  two 
small  pieces  of  cheesecloth.  Put  a  layer  of  figs 
into  a  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of  salt,  another  layer 
of  figs,  and  so  continue  until  they  are  all  covered; 
pour  over  one  quart  of  water,  cover,  and  stand 
aside  over  night.  Next  morning,  wash  the  figs  and 
put  them  into  clear  water  for  two  hours.  Drain, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  until 
they  are  thoroughly  cooled.  Put  the  spices,  vinegar 
and  sugar  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  skim.  Add  the  figs,  bring  quickly 
to  just  scalding  point,  and  stand  them  aside.  Next 
day  re-heat,   put   them  at   once  into  jars,    seal. 

PARKER   PICKLES— 

Five  quarts  of  fresh  figs  with  stems.  They  must 
be  half-ripe.  Put  them  in  salt  water  for  twelve 
hours.  Dry  and  parboil  in  alum  water,  using  alum 
the  size  of  half  a  nutmeg,  or  put  them  in  lime 
water.  Do  not  break  them.  Wash  in  clear  water 
and  dry.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  strong  vin- 
egar and  a  very  little  water  and  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Flavor  with  mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 
When  the  syrup  has  boiled,  put  in  the  figs.  Use 
glass  jars.  • 


Page  Thirty- seven — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


PICKWICK    PICKLES— 

Eight  pounds  of  white  fig's  (fresh),  two  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of  water, 
cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste.  Bcil  all  together 
until  a  silver  fork  will  pierce  the  figs.  Can  hot 
in  glass  jars. 

PICKLED  FORGET-ME-NOTS— 

Four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  two 
ounces  of  stick  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
whole  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  peppers 
(whole).  Put  all  of  the  ingredients  into  a  por- 
celain-lined kettle,  bring  to  boiling  point,  then  add 
seven  pounds  of  figs  that  have  been  washed  and 
drained.  Simmer  gently.  When  the  figs  are  tender, 
take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  put  them  into 
glass  jars.  Boil  down  the  syrup,  pour  it  over  the 
figs  and  seal. 

PARADISE    PICKLES— 

Pick  figs  which  are  barely  ripe,  though  fully 
swollen  out,  and  leave  stems  on  fruit.  Place  in  a 
jar  of  fairly  strong  brine  and  let  stand  over  night 
when  rinse  well  in  fresh  cold  water,  drain,  pack 
close  together  in  jars,  and  pour  over  them  hot 
spiced  vinegar  (sweetened  if  desired)  as  for  apples, 
cherries,  grapes,  etc. 

COLLIER   PICKLES— 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  vinegar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, one  gallon  of  figs;  cook  until  figs  are 
tender. 

BENNETT   SPICES— 

One-half  gallon  of  medium -sized  Smyrna  (Cali- 
myrna)  figs;  make  a  syrup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  to 
three  cups  of  sugar;  add  spices  of  a  mixed  variety 
as  desired;  boil  this  and  drop  in  the  figs  whole; 
let  boil  gently  for  a  few  minutes;  then  let  remain 
in  syrup  twenty-four  hours;  repeat  and  seal. 


-Page  Thirty- eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  JAMS  AND  JELLIES 


SEYMOUR   JAM— 

Take  large,  firm  figs,  remove  hard  stems,  cut 
into  quarters.  For  each  pound  of  figs  use  one-half 
pound  of  granulated  sugar;  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
a  little  water  before  adding  to  the  figs.  Let  the 
water  and  sugar  boil  up  once  or  twice,  then  add 
the  figs,  and  boil  steadily  until  the  jam  coats  the 
spoon  and  drops  from  it  in  heads;  then  pour  into 
hot  jelly  glasses. 

A   DOROTHY  JAM— 

Take  very  ripe  figs,  peel  and  place  in  a  granite 
kettle;  to  two  parts  of  figs  add  one  part  of  sugar 
and  mash  thoroughly  together  with  a  potato 
masher;  place  over  a  slow  fire;  cook  gently  for  a 
long  period,  stirring  frequently.  An  asbestos  mat 
under  the  kettle  is  a  satisfactory  safeguard. 

THOMPSON  JAM- 
TO  five  pounds  of  figs,  peeled  and  cut  into  small 
pieces,  add  three  and  three-quarters  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
take  a  lemon,  remove  the  seeds,  cut  in  thin  slices, 
put  in  boiling  water  to  remove  the  bitter  taste, 
then  add  the  lemon  to  the  figs  and  boil  until  the 
ingredients   drop  from  the  spoon   like  jelly. 

JEANETTE  JAM— 

Boil  sweet,  dried  figs  with  some  syrup  till  all 
the  juice  is  thick  and  sirupy,  then  run  figs,  syrup 
and  all,  through  some  kind  of  a  mill  that  will  grind 
it  into  a  paste.  A  small  sausage  grinder  is  best 
— one  that  grinds  fine.  This  paste  is  fine  for  use 
wherever  a  jam  can  be  used,  and  can  be  made 
more  easily  than  any  other  jam  or  jelly. 


Page  Thirty- nine— 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


One  of  the  Wonder  Fig  Gardens 


— Page  Forty 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


of  Fresno  County,  California 


Page  Forty- one — 


THE   J.    G.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


GELATINED   FIGS— 

Prepare  the  figs  by  stewing-.  Chop  very  fine. 
Have  ready  a  half -box  of  gelatine;  put  this  over 
the  lire  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  the  sweet- 
ened fig  syrup,  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  wineglassful 
of  sherry  and  stir  in  the  minced  figs.  Turn  into 
a  mould  wet  with  cold  water  to  form. 

EASY-ENOUGH    JAM— 

Six  pounds  of  purple  figs  (fresh),  peeled  and  cut 
in  half;  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Cook  until  thick 
and    seal   hot. 

JUBILEE   FIG  JAM— 

Select  ripe  figs,  remove  all  stems,  treat  them 
with  a  scalding  soda  solution  and  rinse  thoroughly 
in  clear,  cold  water.  Cook  in  quantities  not  larger 
than  three  pounds  at  one  time.  Allow  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  three  pounds  of 
figs.  Add  barely  enough  water  to  start  the  cook- 
ing (about  one-half  cupful),  crush  the  figs,  heat 
to  boiling  and  add  the  sugar.  Cook  rapidly  to  220 
degrees  Fahrenheit.  To  seal  properly  and  to  insure 
safety  from  mold,  it  is  necessary  to  process  all 
preserves  after  packing  them  into  the  sterilized 
jars.  This  processing  may  be  done  in  a  water-bath 
by  heat  below  or  at  the  boiling  temperature,  de- 
pending upon  the  kind  of  products  packed  and 
upon  the  length  of  time  the  heat  is  applied.  Since 
preserves  contain  so  much  of  sugar  which  acts  as 
a  preservative,  it  is  only  necessary  to  process 
against  molds.  This  may  be  accomplished  by 
placing  the  filled  jars  in  a  water-bath,  heating  it 
to  a  temperature  of  180  to  190  degrees  Fahrenheit, 
and  holding  that  temperature  for  about  thirty 
minutes. 

Process  preserves  or  jams  in  twelve -ounce  or  pint 
jars  for  twenty  minutes  at  180  degrees  Fahrenheit 
(temperature  of  simmering  water).  When  jars 
with  glass  tops  and  screw  caps  or  wire  clamps 
(lightning  seal)  are  used,  leave  the  pressure  of  the 
clamp  on  the  top  of  cap  until  the  jars  are  entirely 
cold. 

FIG    JELLY— 

Slice  the  fresh  figs  into  the  preserving  kettle, 
covering  bottom  of  kettle  with  cold  water.  Add 
slices  of  unpeeled  lemon,  one  lemon  to  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  uncooked  figs.  Place  on  back  of 
stove  to  cook  slowly  an  hour;  then  strain  and  boil 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  (according  to  the 
state  of  the  syrup),  adding  three-fourths  quantity 
of  sugar  to  that   of  the  fruit. 


— Page  Forty- two 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


LITTLE  GEM  JAM— 

If  the  fig's  are  dried,  first  steam  till  very  soft. 
If  fresh  and  ripe,  place  them  in  a  double  boiler, 
heating-  through  perfectly  but  adding  no  water. 
They  may  be  steamed  instead.  Add  about  one-half 
their  weight  of  sugar  and  cook  down  carefully  till 
thick.  Lemon-juice  and  peel,  pineapple  or  other 
decided  upon  fruit  may  be  added  for  flavoring-. 
This  if  preferred  may  be  rubbed  through  a  coarse 
sieve  and  heated  ag-ain  before  sealing  in  little  pots 
or  jars. 


I 


II 


Page  Forty-three — • 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  PUDDINGS 


THE   PUDDING   SUPREME— 

Chopped  suet,  one  cup;  chopped  figs,  one  pound; 
three  eggs;  bread  crumbs,  two  cups;  sugar,  one 
cup;  milk,  two  cups.  Sauce — Tart  wine,  or  sherry, 
one  cup;  butter,  one-half  cup;  powdered  sugar,  one 
cup. 

"Wash,  pick  over  the  figs  and  chop  them.  Chop 
the  suet,  beat  the  eggs  light,  without  separation, 
and  mix  all  these  thoroughly,  and  turn  it  into  a 
well-greased  mold.  Cover  and  boil  for  three  hours 
and  serve  it  hot. 

The  sauce  for  the  pudding  would  be  a  wine-sauce, 
made  as  follows; 

Beat  a  half-cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  cup 
of  sugar,  gradually,  and  when  light,  add,  a  little 
at  a  time,  the  wine,  which  has  been  made  hot;  stir 
the  sauce  for  two  or  three  minutes,  till  it  becomes 
smooth  and  foamy. 

A   CLARKE    SPECIAL— 

Grind  one  cup  of  dried  figs  and  one  cup  of  kidney 
suet  fine;  mix  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  of  spices,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Lastly 
add  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk.  Turn  into  a  greased  mold  that  holds  about 
thrr^e  quarts  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

A   SIMPSON    SPECIAL— 

One-half  cup  of  figs,  and  one-half  cup  of  raisins, 
chopped  in  coarse  food-chopper;  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  and  one-half  cups 
boiling  water;   let   all   simmer  ten   minutes. 

Take  one-third  cup  of  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  add  to  the  above  mixture. 
Cook  all  five  minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
or  juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  and  chopped  nuts. 


— Page  Forty- four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A    BREEZE    BEATITUDE— 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  chopped 
figs  (about  one  dozen;,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  three  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,   one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk;  add  the  chopped  figs,  crumbs  and 
sugar;  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  and  add  the  three 
well-beaten  egg-yolks;  fold  in  and  bake  until  set. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  remaining  egg-whites  and 
sugar.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  meringue  is 
browned.     Serve  hot  with  cream. 


edna  c.  pudding- 
two    and    one-half    cups    of    bread-crumbs,    two 
eggs,    one-half   cup    of    beef    suet,    one-half   cup    of 
sugar,    one-half  pound  of  finely  chopped  figs,   one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  milk. 

Work  the  suet  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  of  a 
creamy  consistency,  then  add  the  figs;  soak  the 
bread-crumbs  in  milk,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
the  sugar  and  the  salt;  combine  the  mixtures,  turn 
into  a  buttered  mold.  Steam  three  hours.  Serve 
with  molasses  sauce,  which  is  made  by  boiling  two 
cups  of  molasses  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter  for 
three  minutes;  remove  from  fire,  and  add  two  tea- 
spoons of  lemon-juice.     Serve  hot. 

LINDSAY    FIG    PUDDING— 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar  syrup,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of 
chopped  figs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  of 
chopped  walnut  meats,  two  and  one -half  cups  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon;  put  in 
baking-powder  cans;  place  in  boiling  water  for  two 
hours.  This  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  is  ready  to 
steam  and  use  at  any  time.     Use  any  sauce  desired. 

A  Favorite  Sauce. — Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
spoons  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  to  taste;  mix  all  well  together;  pour  on 
boiling  water,  stirring  while  pouring  in  the  water 
and  while  cooking.  Let  cook  for  several  minutes, 
add  a  good- sized  piece  of  butter,  and,  if  desired, 
a  few  chopped  walnuts. 

LOUIS    PIERCE    PUDDING— 

Mix  and  sift  thoroughly  together  one  pint  of 
flour,  a  half-teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  teaspoons  of 
baking-powder;  add  one  cup  of  chopped  figs,  such 
as  can  be  bought  in  bags,  moisten  with  a  scant 
cup  of  milk,  beat  thoroughly;  half -fill  buttered  cups 
with  the  mixture,  and  steam  forty-five  minutes. 
Serve  with  any  sauce  desired. 


Page  Forty-five- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


ISABEL'S    INSPIRATION— 

Three  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  egg;  one  pound  of  dried 
fig's,  floured;  steam  in  a  buttered  mold.  Serve  with 
any  sauce. 

A    HENSON    RELIABLE— 

Moisten  two  heaping  cupfuls  of  whole -wheat 
bread-crumbs  with  three-fourths  cup  of  milk;  add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  honey,  one  beaten 
egg,  and  one -fourth  pound  of  ground  dried  figs. 
Mash  well  with  a  spoon  or  a  potato  masher  until 
the  ingredients  are  well-blended.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes.  Serve  hot  with  apricot  sauce — or  any  de- 
sired sauce. 

STEAMED   FIG    PUDDING— 

One  cup  chopped  figs,  one-half  cup  suet,  three 
eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  soft  bread-crumbs, 
one-third  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  salt. 

Cover  bread-crumbs  with  milk.  Chop  figs  and 
suet  together,  add  other  ingredients,  pour  into  but- 
tered melon-mold  and  steam  for  three  and  one-half 
to   four   hours.      Serve   with    Stirling   Sauce. 

Stirling  Sauce. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  milk,  two 
tablespoons  of  wine. 

Mix  sugar,  wine  and  milk,  and  warm  in  double 
boiler  or  over  hot  water.  Add  to  creamed  butter 
slowly.  Do  not  permit  the  sugar  mixture  to  be- 
come hot,   only  warm. 

STEAMED    FIG    PUDDING— 

One-half  cup  shortening,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
egg  well-beaten,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
molasses,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  five  tea- 
spoons of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  pound  figs,  chopped;  one-fourth  cup  of 
currants,   one-half  cup  of  flour. 

Mix  the  shortening  and  the  sugar,  and  beat 
until  creamy;  add  egg,  milk  and  molasses;  add  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  baking- 
powder,  spices  and  salt;  beat  well;  add  figs  and 
currants  mixed  with  one- half  cup  of  flour.  Pour 
into  a  greased  mold,  and  steam  three  hours,  or 
pour  into  greased  one-pound  baking-powder  cans, 
and  steam  an  hour  and  three-quarters.  Serve  with 
Cranberry  Sauce  or  Currant  Jelly  Sauce.  This 
pudding  keeps  well  and  can  be  re-heated  in  the 
top  of  the  double  boiler. 


-Page  Forty- six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A    MADGE    MASTERPIECE— 

One  cup  of  figs  chopped  fine;  one  cup  of  bread- 
crumbs; one  cup  of  hot  milk;  one-fourth  cup  of 
sugar;  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins;  one-half  cup  of 
currants;  one-fourth  cup  of  almonds;  one-fourth 
cup  of  chopped  citron;  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon; 
one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg;  one -fourth  teaspoon  of 
cloves;  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt;  one-fourth  cup 
of  chopped  suet;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  the 
whites  of  three  eggs;  one-fourth  cup  of  fruit- juice. 
Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  hot  milk;  mix  the  in- 
gredients in  the  order  given;  turn  into  buttered 
molds  and  steam  for  two  hours. 


AN    ELLETA  OFFERING— 

One  pound  of  figs  , one-half  cup  of  nuts,  one- 
half  pound  of  suet,  two  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  two 
cups  of  milk,  three -fourths-  cup  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mace,  one-third  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,   four  yolks  of  eggs,   four  whites  of  eggs. 

Chop  the  figs,  nuts  and  suet  together  (cook  the 
figs  a  few  moments  and  they  can  be  chopped  more 
easily^,  mix  the  sugar,  salt  and  spices  and  add  to 
the  beaten  yolks;  mix  the  bread-crumbs  through 
the  fig-suet  mixture,  then  mix  in  the  yolks  and 
sugar,  and,  lastly,  add  the  whites,  beaten  dry. 
Steam  in  a  well-buttered  mould  four  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  or  liquid  sauce — or  both. 

FIG-SUET    PUDDING— 

Mix  together  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  salt, 
mace,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Put  through  a  fine  sieve,  then 
add  one-half  cupful  of  finely-chopped  suet,  one 
pound  of  figs  cut  fine,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  milk.  Turn  into  well-buttered  pound  baking- 
powder  cans  or  molds  of  the  same  size  and  steam 
for  two  and  one-haif  hours.  Serve  with  any  good 
liquid  sauce  flavored  with  vanilla. 

FIG    PUDDING    OR    PIE— SIMPLE— 

Cut  one -half  pound  of  fresh  or  dried  figs  and 
simmer  half  an  hour  in  three-fourths  pint  of  water, 
a  dessert  spoonful  of  sugar  being  added  when 
nearly  done.  Remove  and  cool,  when  add  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Place  in  a  pudding*  or 
pie  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  the 
yolks  are  set  sufficiently,  then  on  the  top  place  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Let  this  brown  and  re- 
move to  cool. 


Page  Forty- seven- 


the  j.  c.  forkner  fig  gardens  recipes 

fig  pudding  bouquet- 
two  pounds  of  dried  figs,  one  pound  of  suet,  one- 
half  pound  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  bread- 
crumbs, two  eggs,  spices  to  taste,  one-fourth  pound 
of  candied  lemon  peel,  one -fourth  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  milk. 

Mode. — Cut  the  figs  into  small  pieces,  also  the 
lemon-peel,  grate  the  bread  finely,  and  chop  the 
suet  very  small;  mix  these  well  together;  add  the 
sugar,  spice  and  flour;  the  eggs  should  be  well- 
beaten,  and  sufficient  milk  to  form  the  whole  into 
a  stiff  paste;  butter  a  mold,  press  the  pudding  into 
it  very  closely  and  tie  it  down  with  a  cloth,  and 
boil  four  hours  or  rather  longer;  turn  it  out  of  the 
mold  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce,  wine  sauce  or 
cream.  Sufficient  for  seven  or  eight  persons.  Suit- 
able for  a  winter  pudding,  as  it  should  be  made 
with  the  dried,  white  fig. 

No.  2. — Beat  one-half,  pound  of  sugar  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  butter  to  a  foam.  Add  yolk  of 
three  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  finely- chopped  figs, 
one-half  pound  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  white  of  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Boil  all  for  three  hours.  Serve  with 
white  wine  or  hard  sauce. 

No.  3. — Chop  one-half  pound  of  figs  very  fine. 
Mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  one- 
third  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten 
lightly  without  separating  yolks  from  the  whites, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one-fourth  cup  of  cake-crumbs. 
Mix  well  and  turn  into  a  well-pressed  mold  and 
boil  for  three  hours. 

FIG-SUET   ENGLISH    PUDDING— 

Chop  fine  six  ounces  of  suet  in  three-fourths 
pound  of  flour,  adding  a  well-beaten  egg,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  and  sufficient  milk  to  form  a 
smooth  dough.  Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick  and 
sprinkle  on  it  one  pound  fine-chopped  figs.  Roll 
this  up  and  tie  in  a  pudding  cloth,  place  in  boiling 
water,  and  boil  for  two  hours.  A  little  nutmeg 
may  be  used  for  flavoring. 

FIG-BREAD   PUDDING— 

Soak  three  cups  of  bread-crumbs  in  one  and  one- 
fourth  pints  of  water  and  beat  into  this  four  eggs, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  one 
and  one-third  cups  of  chopped  figs.  (The  figs 
should  be  first  dredged  in  flour.)  Flavor  with 
lemon  or  nutmeg.  Beat  well  and  place  in  a 
pudding- dish  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a 
half;  or  place  the  pudding  in  a  tightly- covered 
vessel,  which  is  to  be  placed  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  and  kept  at  a  boil  for  two  and  a  half  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

— Page  Forty- eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG    ROLY-POLY— 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  pound  of  figs,  cut  into 
bits  and  place  in  a  double  boiler  with  one  cupful 
of  water.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  they  can 
be  beaten  to  a  pulp  with  a  spoon.  Cool  and  flavor 
with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Sift  tog-ether  one  pint 
of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  then  rub  into  it 
two  heaping  spoonfuls  of  butter.  Mix  to  a  soft 
dough  with  cold  milk,  turn  out  on  a  floured  board 
and  roll  out  in  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Spread 
with  the  fig  paste  and  roll  up  tightly,  pinching  the 
ends  well  together.  Place  on  a  buttered  pan,  steam 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  stand  in  a  hot 
oven  for  five  minutes  to  dry  off.  Serve  with  milk 
or  vanilla  sauce. 

FIG  BLANC  MANGE— 

Make  as  for  Banana  Blanc  Mange;  using  one  cup 
of  fig-pulp  and  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  a  little 
lemon  tincture.  Prepare  a  sauce  witn  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
stirred  in  with  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Add  one 
teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  wet  with  a  little  water, 
and  remove  from  the  fire.  Nutmeg  may  be  added, 
or  a  dash  of  lemon  extract.     Serve  cold. 

FIG  AND    RAISIN    PUDDING— 

Soak  a  large  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  a  cupful 
of  milk  for  an  hour;  stir  into  them  three  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
suet,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  sifted  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Have  ready  a 
half- cupful  of  minced  figs  and  the  same  quantity 
of  seeded  and  quartered  raisins.  Mix  the  fruit 
together,  dredge  thoroughly  with  flour,  and  stir  it 
into  the  pudding  batter.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
large  pudding  mould  with  a  closely-fitting  top, 
leaving  an  abundance  of  room  in  the  mould  for 
the  pudding  to  swell.  Steam  for  fully  three  hours. 
Turn  from  the  mould,  set  the  pudding  in  the  oven 
for  five  minutes,  and  serve  with  a  liquid  sauce. 

PICADILLY  FIG   PUDDING— 

Soak  a  cupful  of  crumbs  in  two  cupfuls  of  milk 
for  fifteen  minutes,  and  stir  into  them  a  half- 
cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten  light, 
a  quarter- cupful  of  powdered  suet,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  saltspoonful  each  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg and  a  cupful  of  washed  and  dried  figs,  chopped 
coarsely.  Grease  a  plain  pudding  mold  with  a 
tightly-fitting  top,  put  in  the  pudding,  set  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  and  cook  for  three  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


Page  Forty-nine — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG    GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG    PUDDING— No.    1— 

Soak  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  a  cupful  of 
milk  for  a  half-hour.  Chop  enough  suet  to  make 
a  Quarter  of  a  cupful;  beat  three  eggs  lig-ht;  cut 
into  tiny  bits  a  sufficient  number  of  soaked  fig's  to 
make  a  cupful  of  the  minced  fruit. 

Turn  the  soaked  crumbs  into  a  bowl,  and  stir 
into  them  a  half- cupful  of  granulated  sug-ar,  the 
whipped  eggs,  the  powdered  suet,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  dash,  each,  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg".  Last 
of  all,  stir  in  the  minced  fig-s  thickly  dredg-ed  with 
flour,  beat  well  and  turn  into  a  greased  pudding" 
mold  with  a  closely-fitting-  top.  Boil  for  about 
three  hours.     Turn  out  and  eat  with  a  hard  sauce. 


FIG   PUDDING— No.  2— 

Use  only  the  best  figs,  soak  one  hour  in  a  little 
warm  water,  and  chop  enoug-h  to  make  a  grenerous 
cupful  when  minced.  Soak  two  cupfuls  of  fine 
bread-crumbs  in  two  cupfuls  of  milk  until  very 
soft.  Into  the  crumbs  stir  five  eg-g-s,  beaten  lig-ht; 
a  half- cupful  of  sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
the  cupful  of  minced  figs  thoroughly  dredgred  with 
flour.  Beat  hard  for  several  minutes,  and  turn 
into  a  greased  pudding-  mold  with  a  close  top.  Set 
in  boiling-  water  and  cook  three  hours.  Dip  the 
mold  into  cold  water  for  an  instant,  then  turn  the 
pudding-  out  upon  a  hot  platter.  Set  in  the  oven 
long-  enoug-h  for  the  moisture  to  dry  from  the  out- 
side of  the  pudding-.  Three  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
should  suffice.  Send  to  the  table  and  eat  with  a 
hard  sauce  flavored  with  a  little  nutmeg:. 


BREAD   AND    FIG    PUDDING— 

Cut  fig-s  into  small  dices.  Make  a  custard  by 
heating*  a  cupful  of  milk  and  pouring"  it  upon  four 
eg-gs,  beaten  light,  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sug-ar, 
then  cooking-  it  until  it  is  just  thick  enoug-h  to  coat 
the  spoon.  Dip  crustless  slices  of  bread  for  a 
second  in  milk;  put  a  layer  of  them  into  a  pudding*  - 
dish,  cover  with  the  fig--dice,  and  pour  over  all  the 
hot  custard.  Then  put  in  more  bread,  more  fig-s 
and  custard,  and  proceed  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Wait  a  moment  for  the  bread  to  absorb  some  of 
the  custard,  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  hot  liquid 
into  the  dish  until  it  is  full  to  the  brim.  Cover 
the  dish  and  bake  until  the  custard  is  set;  uncover 
and  brown.  Serve  as  soon  as  baked.  Eat  with  a 
hard   sauce. 


-Page  Fifty 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A  JEANIE  JOY— 

Mix  one  cup  figs  chopped  fine  with  one  cup 
bread-crumbs  soaked  in  hot  milk,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  Sultanas,  one-half  cup  each  seeded 
raisins  and  currants,  one-fourth  cup  each  chopped 
almonds  and  sliced  citron,  five  drops  cinnamon  oil, 
three  of  nutmeg  and  two  of  cloves,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  cup  suet  chopped  fine, 
and  three  beaten  egg  yolks.  Fold  in  egg-  whites 
beaten  stiff  and  add  one-fourth  cup  brandy.  Turn 
into  buttered  molds  and  steam  two  hours  well 
covered.     Serve  with  rum  or  brandy  sauce. 


Page  Fifty-one- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS 


CRANBERRY   SAUCE— 

One -fourth  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugur,  two  tablespoons  boiling-  water,  one-half  cup 
of  strained  cranberry  sauce. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  water  grad- 
ually and  alternately;  beat  well,  and  add  the  cran- 
berry sauce.  The  stiffly- beaten  white  of  an  egg 
may  be  added. 

Serve  with  Cottage  or  Steamed  puddings. 

CURRANT  JELLY   SAUCE— 

One  tablespoon  cornstarch,  one-fourth  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  boiling'  water,  two  tablespoons 
of  currant  jelly,  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  the  juice 
of  one-half  lemon. 

Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add 
water  gradually,  when  thickened  add  jelly,  simmer 
ten  minutes;  add  butter  and  lemon- juice  just  be- 
fore serving. 

C.   C.   B.  SAUCE— 

Good  for  puddings   or  for  stale   cake: — 
To    one    cup    of    boiling   water    add    one    cup    of 
brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour;  nutmeg;  one 
cup  of  chopped  figs,     Let  all  boil  together  for  a  few 
minutes. 


— Page  Fifty-two 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  CAKES 


A    DOROTHY-ARLINE    DREAM— 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
egg"  yolks,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  egg  whites,  one 
tablespoon  of  orange  extract. 

Cream  the  butter,  that  is,  beat  it  with  a  spoon 
until  it  is  of  a  creamy  consistency;  then  add  the 
sugar  very  gradually;  when  well  blended,  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  with  a  Dover 
beater  until  lemon- colored  and  thick. 

When  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incor- 
porated, add  the  sifted,  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  the  milk.  When  all  the  milk  and  flour  have 
been  used,  beat  well;  then  cut  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  layers.  Fill 
with  Fig  Filling,  and  sprinkle  with  confectioners' 
sugar. 

Fig  Filling. — Two  cups  of  chopped  figs,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  boiling  water,  two 
tablespoons  of  lemon-juice,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, few  grains  of  salt.  Cook  the  ingredients  in  a 
double  boiler  until  of  a  consistency  to  spread. 

BLINDBURY    LADY-FINGERS— 

One  pound  of  Fresno  dried  figs,  one-half  pound 
of  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  or 
cornstarch,   water  to  cook,   pinch  of  salt. 

Stew  until  tender,  adding  the  flour  dissolved  in 
water;  when  thick,  put  aside  to  cool.  Roll  a  deli- 
cate pie-crust  as  thin  as  used  for  a  pie.  Cut  in 
strips  eight  inches  long  and  two  inches  wide; 
moisten  the  edges,  then  spread  the  fig  paste  over 
one-half  of  the  surface  of  the  strips;  fold  over 
the  other  half  and  press  firmly  together.  Use  a 
fork  to  finish  the  edges.  Cut  a  few  tiny  openings 
in  the  tops.     Bake  to  a  delicate  brown. 


Page  Fifty -three- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A   FORT  SILL   FAVORITE— 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  one-half  cup  of 
butter;  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk;  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour;  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt; 
one  teaspoon  of  baking-powder;  one-half  cup  of 
cornstarch;  the  whites  of  six  eggs.  Bake  in  two 
shallow,  oblong*  pans,  in  a  quick  oven,  and  put 
tog-ether  with  Fig  Filling. 

Fig  Filling. — One- half  pound  of  chopped  figs;  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar;  three  tablespoons  of  boiling 
water;  one  tablespoon  of  lemon- juice.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  of  a  sufficient  thickness. 

A  SOUTHLAND   FAVORITE— 

One-fourth  pound  of  chopped  figs;  one  cupful  of 
chopped  raisins;  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  with 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  added;  pour  over  the  figs  and 
raisins  and  let  stand. 

In  another  dish  mix  one  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar,  a  scant  half -cupful  of  butter,  four  eggs, 
(reserving  two  of  the  whites  for  frosting),  one  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls 
of  flour.  Add  the  figs  and  the  raisins  and  bake 
in  layers. 

BELL'S   BEST-EVER   FRUIT   CAKE— 

One  pound  of  butter  creamed;  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons  of  nut- 
meg, two  teaspoons  of  mace,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking-powder,  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
two  .pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  figs,  one 
pound  of  dates,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  walnut -meats,  one  glass  of 
Madeira  wine,  one  glass  of  Sherry  wine,  one  pint 
of  strawberry  preserves.  Wash  the  fruit  and  let 
it  stand  over  night.  Bake  very  slowly  for  three 
hours.     This  makes  six  medium-sized  cakes. 

WHITE    FIG    FRUIT  CAKE— 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  of 
sugar;  add  one-half  glass  white  wine  and  then  the 
stiff-whipped  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Add  gradually 
three  cups  of  flour,  in  which  two  teaspoons  of 
baking-powder  have  been  sifted,  and  at  the  last, 
one-quarter  pound  fine-cut  citron,  one-half  pound 
chopped  almonds,  one  teacup  of  light-colored  cur- 
rants and  one-half  cup  grated  cocoanut.  Bake 
in  layers  slowly  about  two  hours,  until  it  does  not 
stick  to  the  slenderest  straw.  For  filling,  use  the 
real  Fig  Jelly,  or  the  Fig  Filling  Jelly,  or  the  Fig 
Snow. 


-Page  Fifty -four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


VERA  VANITY— 

One  cup  of  chopped  figs,  one -half  cup  of  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  of  flour;  boil  the  mixture  until 
thick,  watching  closely  as  it  burns  easily.  While 
this  is  cooking,  make  a  cooky  dough  of  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  shortening,  one  egg,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  three  and  one- half  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.  Cream  the  shortening  and  the  sugar,  add 
the  salt,  the  egg  well-beaten,  the  milk,  the  vanilla 
and  flour,  the  latter  sifted  with  the  baking-powder 
and  soda.  Mix  the  dough  soft;  roll  thin.  Spread 
one-half  of  the  cookies  with  the  filling,  placing 
other  of  the  cookies  on  top.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 


KATIE    DROP    CAKES— 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  one- 
half  cup  of  dried  figs,  one-half  cup  of  chopped 
walnut-meats,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  four  teaspoons  baking-powder. 

Clean  the  figs  and  cut  into  one-fourth-inch  pieces 
and  dredge  in  flour.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the 
sugar,  beat  the  egg-yolks  until  light  and  lemon- 
colored  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  the 
dry  ingredients  together  and  chop  the  walnut -meats 
fine.  Beat  the  egg-whites  stiff  and  fold  into  the 
mixture;  then  fold  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  fruit 
and  the  nuts.  Drop  on  buttered  squares  of  tin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  rich  brown  color. 


H.   F.   L.   FRUIT  CAKE— 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  apple  sauce,  two  cups  of  flour  before  being  sifted, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  chopped  or 
dried  figs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of 
spices,  two  teaspoons  of  baking-powder. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together;  add  the 
apple  sauce,  raisins  and  figs;  dissolve  the  soda  in 
hot  water;  add  the  spices  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  sift 
the  flour  and  the  baking-powder  together  and  beat 
in  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Bake  in  two  layers 
with  Fig  Filling. 

Fig  Filling.— One-half  cup  of  ground  figs,  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  just 
enough  cream  or  milk  to  make  smooth. 


Page  Fifty- five- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG  GARDENS   RECIPES 


RUTH-M.   CAKE— 

One  cupful  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  milk, 
two  teaspoons  powdered  cinnamon,  three  cupfuls 
flour,  one-half  cupful  of  Crisco,  three  teaspoons 
baking-powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla,  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one 
cupful  of  shredded  figs. 

Wash  and  dry  the  figs,  then  shred  them;  cream 
together  the  Crisco  and  sugar;  add  the  eggs  well- 
beaten,  and  beat  the  whole  for  five  minutes.  Sift 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  figs  and  flavor- 
ings, and  turn  into  greased  and  floured  cake  tins. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


FIG    LOAF   CAKE— NO.   1— 

Cream  two  cups  of  brown  sugar  with  one  of 
butter.  Add  one  cup  of  water,  four  eggs,  three 
and  three -fourths  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  each 
of  soda  and  grated  nutmeg  and  two  of  cinnamon. 
Have  ready,  chopped  and  floured,  one  pound  of 
dried  figs  cut  in  fine  strips  lengthwise,  and  three 
cups  of  chopped  raisins,  adding  these  just  before 
baking. 


FIG    LOAF   CAKE— NO.   2— 

To  two  cups  of  sugar  add  a  generous  half- cup 
of  butter,  one  of  milk,  four  (scant)  of  flour  (in 
which  two  teaspoons  of  baking-powder  have  been 
sifted),  and  four  eggs.  Flour  two  cups  of  chopped 
figs  and  add  to  batter  just  before  placing  in  pans 
to  bake. 


LITTLE   FIG  CAKES— 

Beat  together  five  eggs.  Add  to  this  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  cup  each  of  sugar  and  chopped  nuts,  and 
a  half  cup  of  raisins,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs  in 
which  has  been  well-mixed  a  rounded  teaspoon  of 
baking-powder,  and  one-half  pound  figs  chopped 
fine.  Bake  in  one  rather  thin  sheet  and  when  the 
cake  is  cold  cut  in  small  squares.  This  may  be 
iced  with  a  plain  boiled  icing  into  which  has  been 
stirred  one  cup  of  chopped  figs  and  nuts. 

And  the  icing — To  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  add 
one-half  cup  water  and  let  it  boil  until  it  strings 
from  spoon,  or  hardens  slightly  in  cold  water. 
Have  ready  the  whipped  white  of  an  egg  (or  two) 
and  on  this  pour  the  boiling  syrup,  beating  with 
silver  fork.  Add  flavoring,  and  when  the  icing  has 
thickened  a  little  spread  on  the  cake. 


-Page  Fifty- six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 

FIG   LAYER  CAKE— 

One  cup  each  of  butter  and  milk;  two  scant  cups 
sugar;  three  cups  flour;  four  eggs;  two  small  tea- 
spoons baking-- powder.  For  icing:  To  a  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  add  one-half  cup  water  and  let  it 
boil  till  it  strings  from  spoon  or  hardens  slightly 
in  cold  water.  Have  ready  the  whipped  white  of 
an  egg  (or  two)  and  on  this  pour  the  boiling  syrup, 
beating  with  silver  fork.  Add  flavoring,  and  as 
the  icing  cools,  in  it  should  be  stirred  one  cup  of 
chopped  figs.  When  the  icing  has  thickened  a 
little  spread  it  on  the  cake. 

FIG    LOAF   CAKE— 

Mix  one-half  pound  figs  (dried)  with  one-half 
pound  of  pecans,  add  one  cup  flour,  three  teaspoons 
baking-powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
cup  sugar  and  two  egg  yolks  beaten  until  thick, 
add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  the  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff.  Bake  in  one  deep  loaf  pan  an  hour  in  slow 
oven. 

A   CRACKER-JACK— 

Six  egg-yolks  creamed;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one 
cup  of  chopped  figs;  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts;  four 
tablespoons  of  cracker-crumbs;  one  teaspoon  of 
baking-powder;  lastly,  add  the  slightly  beaten  egg- 
whites.     Bake  slowly. 

A  SPOERLEIN    SPECIAL— 

Light  part — Take  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  cornstarch,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one 
and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour;  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  of  baking-powder. 

Dark  part — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  three-fourths  cups  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  water,  one-half  pound  of  seedless  raisins, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
one-half  pound  of  figs  split  the  broad  way,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of 
tartar,  two  cups  of  flour. 

When  baked,  put  together,  using  the  light  and 
dark  layers  alternately,  with  or  without  icing. 

Filling  For  Cake. — Put  one-half  pound  of  figs, 
chopped  fine,  in  a  saucepan  with  one  pint  of  cold 
water  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  cook  slowly,  until 
thick  enough  to  spread  without  running,  then  let 
cool.  Then,  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and 
two  tablespoons  of  water  mix  powdered  sugar 
enough  to  make  stiff;  spread  on  the  cake  rather 
thickly,  then  a  layer  of  the  figs,  and  on  top  of  the 
figs  spread  another  layer  of  the  eggs  and  sugar 
mixture.  This  makes  a  filling  of  about  an  inch  in 
thickness.     The  whole,  just  Angels'  food. 


Page  Fifty- seven- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


SAVON    APPLE    CAKE— 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  warm  apple- 
sauce, two  cups  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  nutmeg-,  one- half  cup  of  chopped  nuts, 
one  cup  of  chopped  fig's.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  warm  apple-sauce,  soda  and  flour; 
roll  fruit  and  nuts  in  flour  and  add  last.  Bake 
slowly,  taking  care  that  the  mixture  don't  fall. 


S.   H.    N.   FRUIT  CAKE— 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  dark  brown 
sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  "browned";  two  nut- 
megs, two  teaspoons  of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of 
cinnamon,  ten  eggs,  two  pounds  of  figs  chopped 
fine,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants, 
one-half  pound  of  citron,  two  pounds  of  English 
walnut-meats,  one  pint  of  black  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  rose-water.  Bake 
three  or  four  hours. 


BAYLEY  LOAF- 
TWO  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  both 
beaten  to  a  cream;  three  eggs,  the  whites  beaten 
separately;  three  cups  of  flour,  with  one  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar  stirred  in;  stir  well  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  and  the  butter;  add 
two  cups  more  of  flour,  with  one  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  and  stir  well  together.  Add  one  nutmeg, 
one  pound  of  dried  figs  (ground),  one-half  pound  of 
raisins  (dredged  with  flour),  one  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  of  water.  This  makes 
two  goodly  loaves. 


A   JOHNSON    BROWNIE— 

One-half  pound  of  ground  dried  figs,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one 
cup  of  boiling  water  poured  over  the  figs  and 
raisins.  Let  stand  while  mixing  the  cake  part. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter;  cream 
the  butter  and  add  four  eggs,  reserving-  two  whites 
for  the  icing.  Do  not  beat  the  eggs,  but  stir  them 
into  the  cake;  add  chopped  nuts  to  suit  the  in- 
dividual taste;  add  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one - 
half  teaspoon  of  allspice  and  a  part  of  a  grated 
nutmeg;  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  three  layers 
and  then  ice. 


" — Page  Fifty- eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


J.  A.  S.   FIG    LOAF— 

One  cap  of  sugar,  a  half- cup  of  shortening-,  one 
cup  of  figs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  two  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  vanilla.  Chop  the  figs  and 
the  raisins  fine,  pour  over  them  one  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Cool, 
before  mixing  in  the  other  ingredients.  Place  in 
a  well- greased  pan,  and  bake  slowly. 

A  LULU  C.   LAYER— 

One- third  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  figs, 
two  cups,  of  flour,  one-third  teaspoon  of  salt,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  until  creamy;  add  the  beaten  egg  and  milk; 
add  the  figs;  stir  in  the  flour,  salt  and  baking- 
powder  sifted  together.  Bake  in  layers  for  about 
twenty  minutes  and  fill  with  the  "Belmont  Ave." 
Filling. 


Page  Fifty-nine- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


FILLING  FOR  CAKES 


BELMONT   AVE.   FILLING— 

One  pound  of  figs,  one  cup  of  water,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Put  the 
figs  through  a  medium  meat-chopper;  add  the 
water  and  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  a  thick  pulp 
is  formed;  add  the  lemon- juice,  beat  well,  and 
when  cool,  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake.  This 
is  fine  as  a  filling  for  any  plain  cake. 

FIG   FILLING-JELLY   FOR   CAKE— 

Chop  or  shred  one  pound  of  figs  and  boil  until 
tender  in  one  coffee- cupful  of  water,  in  double 
boiler.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  and 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Boil  down  until  smooth 
and  thick.     Spread  while  warm. 

FIG  SNOW   FOR   FILLING— 

Mix  fig  pulp  (fresh,  or  steamed,  or  stewed)  with 
whipped  cream  or  meringue  as  for  Banana  Filling 
for  Banana  Layer  Cake. 

FIG    FILLING— 

Scald,  dry  and  chop  one-half  pound  figs  (dried), 
add  to  one-half  cup  cream  whipped  stiff  with  one 
teaspoon  lemon-juice.  Fill  cakes  and  cover  with 
frosting. 

FIG  AND   DATE   FILLING— 

One  cup  of  figs,  one  cup  of  dates,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  the  juice 
of  one-half  lemon. 

Wash,  dry  and  chop  the  figs;  wash,  dry,  stone 
and  chop  the  dates;  mix  fruit  with  sugar,  water 
and  lemon-juice,  and  cook  over  hot  water  until 
thick  enough  to  spread. 


— Page  Sixty 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    PIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG   FILLING— 

Put  one  cupful  of  water  into  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  and  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  one 
pint  of  figs,  finely  chopped,  to  the  syrup  and  cook 
tog-ether  until  soft  and  smooth.  When  cold,  spread 
between  the  layers  of  the  cake. 

FIG    FROSTING— 

One  cup  of  confectioners'  sugar,  one  egg  white, 
one  teaspoon  flavoring  extract,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  lemon-juice.  Mix  ingredients  and  mix  until 
thick.  Add  one  cup  of  figs  which  have  been  boiled 
in  one-half  cup  of  water  until  tender,  and  chopped 
until  fine. 


Page  Sixty-one — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  PIE 


THOMPSON    PIE— 

Put  crust  in  pan,  peel  and  slice  fresh  figs  in 
pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon, 
add  a  little  water,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake  in 
a  rather  slow  oven. 

A   POLLY   PASTRY— 

For  two  pies  use  a  pound  of  dried  fig's.  Wash 
them  and  place  in  a  crock  with  a  quart  of  milk 
to  heat  slowly.  When  soft,  crush  them  or  put 
through  a  colander.  Add  an  egg  or  a  teaspoon  of 
dissolved  cornstarch  to  thicken,  then  place  in  a 
baked  pastry  shell.  Whipped  cream  or  a  meringue 
may  be  used  with  this  or  thin  lattice  strips  of 
paste  laced  over  it. 

FIG-NUT    PIE— 

One  cup  of  ground  figs;  one-half  cup  of  nut- 
meats;  one-third  cup  of  sugar;  one  cup  of  milk; 
two  cups  of  water;  yolks  of  three  eggs;  whites  of 
eggs   for   frosting;    four   tablespoons    of   cornstarch. 

Grind  the  figs  and  the  nuts,  add  to  milk  and 
water  and  heat;  add  the  sugar,  and  when  all  is 
mixed,  stir  in  the  cornstarch  which  has  been  made 
smooth  with  a  little  milk;  add  the  egg-yolks,  cook 
a  little  longer,  then  put  into  the  previously-baked 
crusts.     Sufficient   for  two  large  pies. 

COTTAGE    CHEESE    PIE— 

One-half  cup  of  finely-chopped  figs  soaked  in 
one  cup  of  milk  for  about  two  hours;  one  cup  of 
very  fine,  smooth  cottage  cheese — add  to  this  two 
well-beaten  eggs.  Add  gradually  one-fourth  cup 
of  sugar,  then  add  the  milk  and  the  figs;  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon- 
juice.     Bake  in  one  crust. 


— Page  Sixty- two 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


SOUR   CREAM    PIE— 

One  cup  of  sour  cream;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one 
cup  of  dates;  one  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon;  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves. 
Line  a  pan  with  the  crust,  bake  a  little,  add  the 
filling,   and  bake  until  the  filling-  is  set. 

SWEET   CREAM    PIE— 

Make  and  bake  a  crust  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 
One  cup  of  whipped  cream;  two  teaspoons  of 
sugar;  one-half  cup  of  finely-ground  figs;  flavor- 
ing to  taste.  Whip  the  cream  until  stiff,  then  add 
the  figs,  sugar  and  flavoring.  When  the  crust  is 
cool,  fill  in  with  the  cream,  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
until  used.  Must  be  eaten  the  same  day  it  is 
made. 


FIG    CREAM    PIE— 

Four  tablespoons  of  Crisco;  four  tablespoons  of 
flour;  three-quarters  teaspoonful  of  salt;  two  cups 
of  milk;  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  one  cup  of  chopped 
figs;  two  eggs  well-beaten;  plain  pastry. 

Melt  the  Crisco  and  in  it  cook  the  flour  and  salt 
till  frothy;  add  the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling;  add 
the  sugar  and  the  figs,  and  stir  until  the  figs  are 
softened  a  little.  Beat  in  the  eggs;  turn  into  pie- 
plate  lined  with  pastry.  Bake  until  the  crust  is 
brown  and  the  custard  set. 

BUTTERMILK    PIE— 

One  cup  of  buttermilk;  one -fourth  cup  of  sugar; 
one  cup  of  chopped  figs;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour; 
one -half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  two 
crusts. 

COMBINATION    PIE— 

Two  cups  of  chopped  figs;  one  cup  of  raw 
apples;  one  egg;  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar;  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  milk.  Put  the  figs  and  apples 
through  a  meat-chopper;  add  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients, and  bake  in  one  crust,  with  twisted 
straps  across  the  top. 

CHRJSTMAS   PIE— 

Three  large  lemons;  two  dozen  apples;  two 
pounds  of  seedless  raisins;  one  pound  of  currants; 
four  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  one  ounce  each  of 
candied  orange,  lemon  and  citron  peel;  one  small 
pot  of  marmalade;  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
suet;  one  pint  of  boiled  cider.  Bake  in  the  same 
manner  as  a  mince  pie. 


Page  Sixty- three — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


A   JENNEY  JOY— 

Cut  fine  three -fourths  of  a  pound  of  fresh  or 
dried  figs;  add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  boiling 
water  and  let  it  cook  about  a  half-hour,  or  until 
the  skins  of  the  figs  are  tender;  beat  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  add  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and  beat 
again,  with  a  few  grains  of  salt;  stir  this  into  the 
figs  and  let  cook  until  the  egg  is  set,  stirring  mean- 
while. Turn  into  a  plate  lined  with  cooked  pastry. 
Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  very  light;  gradually  beat 
in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  over  the 
pie.  Dredge  with  granulated  sugar;  let  cook  in  a 
very  slow  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

CLAYTON  PIE- 
Two  cups  of  figs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  make  paste  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
water.  Use  seedless  raisins  whole,  chop  the  figs, 
add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  well-done;  cool,  and 
bake  between  two  crusts  for  twenty  minutes.  This 
recipe  is  delicious  with  but  the  figs,  adding  the 
juice  of  one-half  of  a  lemon. 


— Page  Sixty-four 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  STEWS  &  STEAMS 


STEWED    FIG    FAVORITES— 

Figs  may  be  stewed  in  three  different  ways,  if 
the  dried  fruit  is  used: — 

1 — Wash  figs  and  place  in  cold  water  over  night, 
using  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  figs.  Next 
morning  bring  the  figs  (in  same  water)  slowly  to 
a  boil  and  when  tender  add  half  the  quantity  of 
sugar  that  there  is  juice,  cooking  down  until  the 
syrup  is  thick.     Serve  cold  with  cream. 

2 — Stem  the  figs  till  soft,  then  place  them  in  boil- 
ing syrup  for  a  moment,  setting  them  back  where 
they  .will  not  even  simmer,  for  twenty  minutes  or 
more,  when  remove  the  figs,  cook  down  syrup  till 
thick  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

3 — Wash  and  cover  the  figs  with  wine,  letting 
stand  over  night.  Then  barely  simmer  till  tender, 
treating  the   syrup  as  above. 

Fresh  figs  require  simply  to  simmer  for  a  few 
moments  in  a  very  little  water  before  adding  sugar, 
when  let  a  syrup  form  before  removing.  Pineapple, 
ginger,  lemon,  rhubarb  or  other  fruits  may  be  used 
to  flavor. 

STEAMED   TASTIES— 

One-third  cup  finely-chopped  figs,  one-half  table- 
spoon sugar,  one-fourth  cup  water,  one  teaspoon 
lemon-juice,  few  grains  of  salt.  Cook  figs,  sugar 
and  water  two  hours  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add 
lemon-juice  and  salt.  Chill  before  serving.  One- 
half  tablespoon  Sherry  wine  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 

A   SAXON    SUGGESTION— 

One-half  pound  of  figs,  one  pound  of  prunes,  one- 
half  pound  of  raisins.  Cook  prunes  until  soft,  stone 
them,  add  the  raisins  and  figs  (which  may  be  cut), 
boil  a  few  minutes  until  soft.  Can  be  used  with 
nuts  and  rice  as  a  pudding,  or  when  cold  as  a 
spread  for  bread. 


Page  Sixty-five 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


STEAMED    FIGS— 

This  should  be  done  always  in  closed  but  not 
tightened  jars.  Families  may  use  a  common  wash- 
boiler,  furnished  with  a  loose  inner  perforated  bot- 
tom of  tin  or  galvanized  iron,  kept  from  the  bot- 
tom by  four  stout  legs  soldered  to  the  loose 
bottom.  The  space  below  the  bottom  is  nearly 
filled  with  water.  The  jars,  with  fresh  figs,  are 
placed  above,  and  finally  over  the  boiler  is  put  its 
regular  cover.  This  is  a  much  better  way  than 
boiling  the  figs  in  kettles  of  any  kind  over  direct 
fire,  as  it  prevents  burning  or  mashing  of  the  figs, 
saves  handling,  preserves  the  flavor,  etc. 

CREAMED    FIG    STEWS— 

Use  the  large,  whole  figs,  usually  seen  in  bags. 
Wash  them  in  lukewarm  water,  then  add  fresh, 
cold  water  and  let  them  soak  until  plump.  Heat 
gradually  and  let  them  simmer  until  very  tender 
Skim  them  out  and  boil  down  the  syrup  until 
thick,  adding  lemon- juice  to  remove  the  excess  of 
sweet.  Strain  it  over  the  figs  and  serve  cold,  with 
plain  cream,  or  surrounded  with  whipped  cream. 

A    LOWNEY    FAVORITE— 

Wash  the  figs;  cut  in  pieces;  for  each  cup  of  figs 
add  one-quarter  cup  of  cold  water;  simmer  one 
hour;  add  sugar  and  lemon- juice  if  desired. 

HUFFMAN    HOUSE   STEAMS— 

Wash  the  figs  in  hot  water,  cut  off  the  stems 
and  blossom  ends;  place  in  a  steamer  or  in  a 
colander  over  hot  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  or 
without  cream.  This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious 
ways  of  serving  figs. 


— Page  Sixty- six 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


SANDWICHES 


HENSON   SANDWICHES— 

Six  ounces  of  chopped  fig's;  half  a  glass  of  water; 
one  tablespoon  of  orange-flower  water;  whipped 
cream,   violets   and  Angelica. 

Stew  the  figs  until  the  water  is  absorbed;  add 
the  orange-flower  water;  cool  and  spread  on 
wafers.  Decorate  with  the  cream,  violets  (and 
Angelica. 

PEANUT-FIG   SANDWICHES— 

Chop  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  figs;  add  to 
them  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  water,  and  cook  to  a 
smooth  paste;  add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  peanuts, 
ground  and  mixed  to  a  paste,  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  When  cold,  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread 
or  cake. 

FIG-NUT   SANDWICHES— 

Chop  one-fourth  pound  of  figs  very  fine,  add 
one-fourth  cup  of  water,  and  cook  to  a  smooth 
paste;  add,  also,  one-third  cup  of  almonds, 
blanched,  chopped  very  fine  and  pounded  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  rose-water,  also  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  When  cold,  spread  the  mixture  upon 
lady- fingers  or  cakelets,  white  or  yellow,  press  an- 
other above  the  mixture  and  serve  upon  a  hand- 
some doyle- covered  plate.  Bread  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  cake. 

HURRY-UP   SANDWICHES— 

Chop  dried  figs  until  soft  enough  to  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  If  good  butter 
and  wholesome  white  or  brown  bread  are  used  one 
has  a  most  satisfying  luncheon,  one  that  contains 
all  the  requirements  of  fat,  sugar,  nitrogen,  etc. 
One  may  substitute  finely-chopped  nuts  for  the 
butter,    for  variety,    if   one  wishes. 


Page  Sixty- seven — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


CREAMED-FiG    SANDWICHES— 

Chop  figs  fine.  Add  half  as  much  finely- chopped 
English  walnut  or  pecan-meats;  moisten  with 
creamed  butter,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  spread 
between  two  thin  slices  of  bread. 

SUPREME   SANDWICHES— 

Stew  the  figs,  season  with  wine  and  lemon- 
juice,  and  use  for  a  filling  with  white  of  graham 
bread    sandwiches. 

ONE-MINUTE  SANDWICHES— 

Fill  thinly- sliced  bread  and  butter  sandwiches 
with  stewed  figs. 

FIG-CHEESE  SANDWICHES— 

Wash  one-half  pound  of  pitted  prunes;  mix  with 
one-half  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one-half  pound 
of  stoned  dates,  one-half  pound  of  washed  dried 
figs,  one-fourth  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one- 
fourth  pound  of  Brazil  nuts,  and  one -fourth  pound 
of  pecan  nuts.  Put  all  through  a  meat-chopper; 
first  a  little  of  the  fruit,  then  a  few  of  the  nuts. 
Continue  this  until  all  of  the  fruit  and  nuts  are 
chopped  and  mixed.  Add  the  juice  of  two  oranges, 
and  knead  with  the  hands.  Pack  down  in  baking- 
powder  cans  and  stand  aside  in  a  cool  place. 

When  wanted  for  use,  set  the  pan  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  loosen  the  sides  and  pull  out.  Slice 
thin. 

This  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner  as  cold 
meat  for  either  luncheon  or  supper. 


--Page  Sixty-eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  TURNOVERS 


A    HENSON    SPECIAL— 

Mix  and  sift  three  cups  of  flour,  three-quarters 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-- powder.  Rub  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls 
of  butter  into  the  flour;  beat  one  egg;  add  to  the 
egg*  one  cup  of  milk,  and  add  gradually  to  the 
flour.  The  dough  should  be  soft  but  not  wet.  Turn 
out  on  flour-board  and  roll  to  a  half-inch  thick- 
ness; cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  dip  a  silver  knife- 
handle  into  flour  and  bend  the  cakes  in  the  middle 
by  pressing  the  knife  on  them.  Have  ready  eight 
or  ten  figs  chopped  fine;  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  figs  on  half  of  the  cake,  brush  over  lightly 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  fold  over  the  figs  and 
press  the  edges  together.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. 


CHRISTY  TURNOVERS— 

One  quart  of  whole-wheat  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder.  Add  the  salt  and  baking-- powder 
to  the  flour,  and  sift.  Rub  in  the  butter;  beat  the 
egg,  add  to  it  the  milk,  and  add  this  gradually  to 
the  flour.  The  dough  must  be  soft,  but  not  too 
wet.  Turn  it  out  quickly,  roll  into  a  sheet  a  half- 
inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  a  large  round  cutter. 
Dip  a  knife-handle  into  flour,  press  down  in  the 
center  of  each  biscuit,  making  a  sort  of  hinge. 
Have  ready  eight  or  ten  pulled  figs  chopped  fine. 
After  making  the  hinge,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
fig  mixture  on  half  the  roll,  brush  inside  the  edg-e 
with  white  of  egg,  fold  over  the  other  half,  press 
the  two  together,  brush  with  milk  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  Stand  in  a  greased 
shallow  pan  sufficiently  far  apart  not  to  touch  in 
the  cooking.  Serve  warm  with  a  pitcher  of  cream 
or  milk. 


Page  Sixty- nine — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


H.   A.    R.   TURNOVERS— 

One  cup  chopped  fig's,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one 
heaping-  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
orange  juice,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Mix  all  together.  Roll  a  rich  pie-crust  thin, 
cut  into  four-inch  lengths  or  squares;  on  one-half 
of  these  squares  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mix- 
ture, and  cover  the  other  half  of  pie-crust  square, 
press  the  edges  tightly  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  i 


-Page  Seventy 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


CANNED  FIGS 


CANNED    FIG    DROPS— 

To  three  quarts  boiling-  water  add  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  soda;  now  dip  your  figs  in  the  water 
for  one  minute  and  skim  them  out;  then  wash 
them  thoroughly  in  two  or  three  waters,  or  until 
there  is  no  color  left  in  the  water.  To  ten  pounds 
of  figs  allow  eight  pounds  of  sugar;  add  just  enough 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar;  when  boiling  hot  drop 
in  the  figs,  having  first  selected  them  with  care  so 
as  to  avoid  any  that  are  broken  or  over-ripe;  let 
them  simmer  slowly  two  hours;  now  remove  the 
figs  and  boil  down  the  syrup  quite  thick;  replace 
the  figs;  bring  all  to  a  boiling  heat,  after  which 
they  are  ready  for  canning  after  the  usual  method. 
A  few  slices  of  lemon  with  its  juice  will  improve 
it^  flavor. 

a  winter  delight— 

Figs  for  canning  should  be  sound  and  firm.  Treat 
them  for  a  soda  bath,  as  for  preserving.  Rinse 
through  two  cold-water  baths,  drain  and  cook  for 
forty  to  sixty  minutes  in  the  syrup  (two  cupfuls 
of  sugar,  four  cupfuls  of  water;.  Cool,  pack  and 
cover  with  the  syrup  and  process  for  thirty  min- 
utes in  quart  jars.  When  canning  in  tin,  the  figs 
retain  a  better  color  and  flavor  if  canned  in 
enamel-lined   cans. 


Page  Seventv-one — 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  BREAD  &  BISCUITS 


STEAMED   INDIAN    BREAD— 

One  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  rye 
meal,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons soda,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two -thirds  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  chopped  figs. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses, 
liquid  and  figs.  Pour  into  greased  one-pound 
baking-powder  boxes,  and  steam  steadily  for  one 
and  three-quarter  hours.  Or  pour  into  a  large 
greased  mold  and  steam  for  three  hours. 

CAMBRIDGE    MUFFINS— 

One-quarter  cup  shortening,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking-powder,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt,   one  cup  chopped  figs. 

Cream  the  shortening;  add  the  sugar  and  egg 
well-beaten;  beat  well,  add  the  milk,  flour,  baking- 
powder  and  salt,  which  have  been  sifted  together; 
add  the  figs;  beat  again,  and  bake  in  hot,  greased 
muffin  pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

fig  rolls- 
two   cups   flour,    four   teaspoons   baking-powder, 
one    teaspoon     salt,     two    tablespoons    shortening, 
three-fourths   cup   of  milk. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  shortening 
until  fine  and  crumbly,  and  add  milk  to  form  a 
soft  dough;  a  little  more  or  less  may  be  required, 
according  to  the  brand  of  flour  used.  Roll  out 
one-half,  and  cut  in  rounds,  with  three-inch  cutter; 
spread  with  soft  butter,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon 
and  sugar  and  put  sliced  figs  on  half  of  each  roll; 
fold  over,  press  edges  firmly  together,  brush  with 
milk,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Allow 
one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon  to  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar. 


— Page  Seventy-two 


THE  J.  C.  FORKNER  FIG  GARDENS  RECIPES 


MARY  GREEN  BREAD— 

One  cup  corn  meal,  one  cup  entire  wheat  flour, 
one  cup  white  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  five  teaspoons 
baking-powder,  one-fourth  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
chopped  figs,  one-half  cup  chopped  nut-meats,  one 
egg  well-beaten,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  other  in- 
gredients in  order  given;  mix  well,  turn  into  a 
greased  bread-pan,  cover  with  a  cloth,  let  stand 
fifteen  minutes;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty 
minutes. 

BREAD   OF   LIFE— 

One  cup  scalded  milk;  one  cup  boiling  water; 
one-fourth  cup  molasses,  two  tablespoons  of 
shortening,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one-half  yeast 
cake,  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm  water,  four  cups 
entire  wheat  flour,  one  cup  chopped  figs. 

Mix  milk,  water,  molasses,  shortening  and  salt; 
when  lukewarm,  add  yeast,  dissolved  in  lukewarm 
water,  and  flour;  mix  and  beat  well;  let  rise  until 
double  in  bulk;  add  figs,  beat  well,  turn  into  two 
greased  bread-pans;  let  rise  until  light,  and  bake 
one  hour.  The  oven  should  be  hot  for  the  first 
fifteen  minutes,  and .  then  the  heat  should  be  re- 
duced. 


FIG  GEMS— 

To  half  a  cup  of  chopped  figs  add  the  well-beaten 
yolk  of  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  two  scant  cups  of  flour  in  which  two 
teaspoons  of  baking-powder  have  been  sifted,  add- 
ing a  tablespoon  of  oil  or  butter  before  beating 
in  the  whipped  white  of  the  egg.  Bake  for  twenty 
minutes  rather  briskly. 

GRAHAM    BISCUIT    DREAMS— 

Scald  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk;  add  one-fourth 
cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  heaping-tablespoon  of  butter;  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  butter  is  melted, 
then  set  aside  to  cool. 

In  another  dish  mix  one  and  one -half  cupfuls 
of  graham  flour,  one  cupful  of  white  flour,  and 
two  and  one-half  rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.  When  the  milk  is  cold  add  to  the  dry 
ingredients  with  one  well-beaten  egg.  Beat  the 
whole  vigorously  for  a  few  minutes,  stir  in  one- 
half  cupful  of  figs,  chopped  very  fine  and  dredged 
with  flour.  Fill  hot,  greased  gem -pans  half  full 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  golden  brown. 

These  are  delicious  with  jam  or  marmalade. 


Page  Seventy-three 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER    FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


MERIHEW   WHITE    LOAF— 

Three  cups  of  flour;  three  cups  of  chopped  fig1?; 
one  cup  of  chopped  nuts;  two  cups  of  milk;  one 
teaspoon  of  salt;  three  tablespoons  of  baking- 
powder;  one  tablespoon  of  shortening-.  Mix  well, 
put  into  a  bread-pan  and  bake  one  hour. 


M.    M.    A.    FIG-COFFEE    BREAD— 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  level 
teaspoons  of  baking-powder.  Beat  together  three 
level  tablespoons  of  Crisco,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  egg.  Beat  well  and  add  one- 
half  cup  of  chopped  dried  figs  (either  black  or 
white) ;  add  nuts  if  desired.  Add  more  milk  if 
batter  seems  too  stiff.  Pour* into  a  greased  baking- 
pan  and  cover  with  the  following  mixture: 

Fig-Coffee  Bread  Mixture. — Two  tablespoons  of 
flour;  one  tablespoon,  level  full,  of  cinnamon;  four- 
tablespoons  level-full  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons 
level-full  of  butter.  Mix  in  a  bowl  and  set  in  a 
pan  of  warm  water.  Cover  the  pan  of  dough  and 
let  stand  ten  minutes  in  a  warm  place  before 
baking. 

This  bread  is  delicious,   either  warm  or  cold. 


ROBINSON    BROWN    BREAD— 

Two  cups  each  of  graham  flour,  rye  meal  and 
white  corn  meal,  three  and  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
fresh,  or  condensed  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking-powder,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  corn  syrup,  one  cup  of  figs,  ground 
or   cut  up  fine. 

Mix  meal,  flour,  salt  and  baking-powder;  add 
syrup  and  milk;  after  mixing  thoroughly  add  the 
figs.  This  will  fill  three  baking-powder  cans 
(25 -oz.)  two-thirds  full;  cover  tightly;  steam  three 
and  one-half  hours,  or  till  it  stands  the  straw  test; 
remove  from  cans,  brown  slightly  in  oven.  Slice 
thin  while  hot  and  serve  with  butter,  peanut  butter 
or  honey.  It  is  also  delicious  for  cold-lunch  sand- 
wiches. 

PEARL   FIG    BREAD- 
TWO   cups    of    chopped   figs;    four   cups    of   flour; 
one  egg;  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  two  cups  of  milk; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  four  teaspoons  of  baking1  - 
powder. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  eg-g  well-beaten; 
add  the  figs  and  milk.  Mix  well  together;  let  stand 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes;  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven   for  forty-five  minutes. 


-Page  Seventy- four 


THE   J. 


C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG   MUFFINS— 

jssjss^x  aa  s?«ks 

for   twenty-flve   minutes    in   hot    oven. 

BISCUITS  O'   BENT— 

Put  two  cups  of  flour  into  a  pan,  work  into  it 
^fourth    cup   of    shortening,    one   teaspoonful   of 

it  two  teasSoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one- 
fiS  clp   f|opped   fig.     Wet   with   one^of 

uSll  STrtS  enough  £  handle.     Roll  to  the  usual 
thickness,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

FIG-YEAST   BREAD— 

One  cup  of  warm,   left-over  cereal;  three  table- 

""cereal,  the  sugar,  the  salt  and  the 
shortening  add  the  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  water, 
and  sufficient  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  over  night 
Tn  the  morning  when  kneading,  work  in  one-half 
cup  of  Enghsh  walnut-meats,  chopped,  and  one- 
hWcup  of  chopped  figs.  Shape  into  a  loaf  let 
rise;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  bread  is  very 
good  for  sandwiches. 

HAYWARD   BROWN    BREAD— 

Two  cups  of  yellow  corn  meal;  one  cup  of  rye 
or  graham  flour!  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one  tea- 
^oonfurof  soda;  one  cup  of  very  dark  molasses; 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  water;  one  cup  of  raisins, 
™t  ™n  of  chopped  figs.  Put  into  a  greased  mold, 
and  steam  two^or  three  hours,  either  on  a  stove 
or  in  a  fireless  cooker. 


^§# 


i* 


Page  Seventy-five- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG   GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  COOKIES  AND 
CRULLERS 


CHRISTMAS   CAKES— 

Six  eggs;  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar;  one 
cupful  of  sifted  bread-crumbs;  one  tablespoonful  of 
lemon- juice;  one  cup  of  almonds  chopped  fine;  one 
cup  of  figs  chopped  fine;  one-half  pound  of  dates 
chopped  fine;  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Beat  the  egg-yolks  and  sugar  well,  and,  grad- 
ually, in  succession,  beating  well  all  the  time,  the 
lemon-juice,  nuts,  dates,  figs,  bread-crumbs  and 
baking-powder  mixed;  add  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff.  Bake  in  a  single  sheet  about 
one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Cover  with  plain  boiled 
icing,  and  sprinkle  generously  with  a  mixture  of 
chopped  figs,  dates  and  nuts.  Cut  into  small 
diamond  shapes. 

DOROTHY   ARLINE   COOKEYETTES— 

One  cup  of  sugar;  one  cup  of  butter;  two  eggs; 
one  pound  of  chopped  figs;  one-fourth  pound  of 
chopped  walnut-meats;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted 
into  two  cups  of  flour.  Drop  in  small  balls  three 
inches  apart  on  greased  cookie  tins. 

C.    E.    L.   COOKIES— 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  shortening, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking-powder;  flavoring  if  desired.  Roll 
cookies  very  thin;  cut  out  and  spread  one  teaspoon 
of  the  jam  in  the  center  of  a  cookies,  placing  an- 
other cookie  over  it — and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cookey  Filling. — One  cup  of  fig  jam,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour;  boil  until 
thick. 


-Page  Seventy-six 


THE  J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


FIG  CRULLERS— 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  three  eggs.  Beat  all  to  a  cream.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  a  cupful  of 
walnut-meats  in  rather  large  bits;  one  pound  of 
dried  figs  chopped  fine;  three  and  a  half  cupfuls 
of  flour.  Mix  well,  roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into 
shapes.  Set  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour  and  fry- 
in  a  deep  fat. 


Page  Seventy- seven- 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   PIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


ENGLISH  CHUTNEY 
SAUCE 


ENGLISH  CHUTNEY  SAUCE— 

One-half  pound  of  fig's;  one-half  pound  of  raisins; 
one  pound  of  apples;  one  dozen  ripe  tomatoes  (the 
canned  fruit  may  be  used);  two  red  peppers;  one- 
fourth  cup  of  mint  leaves  (fresh  or  dried) ;  six 
small  onions;  one  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed; 
one  and  one-half  quarts  of  vinegur,  boiled  and 
cooled  (do  not  have  too  strong-);  one  pound  of  gran- 
ulated sugar. 

This  requires  no  cooking.  Put  everything  through 
the  meat-grinder.  Heat  the  salt  and  the  sugar 
with  the  vinegar,  and  let  cool  before  pouring  over 
the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 

Pour  all  into  a  crock  or  jar,  and  let  stand  ten 
days,  stirring  each  day — then  it  can  be  bottled. 
Fine  with   meats. 

TAMARIND  CHUTNEY— 

Two  pounds  of  figs;  one-half  pound  of  green 
ginger-root;  one  pound  of  layer  raisins;  two  table- 
spoons of  salt;  one  pound  of  onions;  one-fourth 
pound  of  chillies;  one-fourth  pound  of  brown  sugar; 
one-half  pint  of  vinegar;  a  one-half  pound  jar  or 
bottle  of  tamarinds. 

Remove  the  stones  from  the  tamarinds  and  chop 
fine;  c^op  the  figs  fine;  stone  and  cut  the  raisins 
in  quarters;  chop  the  onion  fine;  pound  the  chillies, 
and  scrape  and  slice  the  ginger.  Mix  all  of  the 
ingredients  together,  bottle  and  seal. 


— Page  Seventy- eight 


THE   J.    C.    FORKNER   FIG  GARDENS    RECIPES 


INDEX 


Pages 

Dainty  Delights 1-3 

Fig  Specials 4-7 

Fig  Confections  8-15 

Fig  Tarts  and  Wafers 16-17 

Fig  Ices 18-20 

Breakfast  Specials 21-22 

Stuffed  Figs  23 

Fig  Pastes  24-25 

Fig  Marmalade 26-27 

Fig  Preserves 28-32 

Fig  Salad 33-35 

Fig  Pickles 36-38 

Fig  Jams  and  Jellies  39-43 

Fig  Puddings 44-51 

Sauces  for  Puddings  52 

Fig  Cakes 53-59 

Filling  for  Cakes 60-61 

Fig  Pie 62-64 

Stewed  and  Steamed  Figs  65  ^6 

Fig  Sandwiches 67-68 

Fig  Turnovers    r „  69-70 

Canned  Figs ....„.„__        71 

Fig  Bread  and  Biscuit 72-75 

Fig  Cookies  and  Crullers 76-77 

Fig  Sauces  ,.„ 78 


CROWN    PRINTING   AND    ENGRAVING   CO. 
FRESNO,  CALIFORNIA 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  524  466  3     $ 


.J- 


