BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07713  210  6 


l«9|^ 


2iii»^)Jk<i 


^M 


^i^^j*- 


Accessions 


Helflio. 


jj^in^- 


-^4 


/ 


Mtii 


oni 


^^ 


\S^ 


n  .  ,  /-    .  / 


TO  THE  READER. 

This  book  is  not  in 
good  condition.  Please 
use  it  carefully. 

B.F.L.    FORM    NO.    403:   7.6.26:   20M. 


%   i^ 


JUN    7    C 


J^i?2& 


T^ 


Copyright,  1878,  by 
THE  AMERICAN  NEWS  COMPANY. 


JENNIE  JUNE'S 


AMERICAN    COOKERY    BOOK, 


CONTAINING     UPWARDS     OF   TWFLVE     HUNDRED     CHOICE    AND    CAREFCTLLY 
TESTED    RKCKirXS;     EMBRACING    ALL    THE   POPULAR    DISHES, 
AND   THE  BKST   RESULTS    OF    MODERN    SCIENCE,  RE- 
DUCED TO  A  SIMPLE  AND  PRACTICAL  FORM^ 

ALSO, 

A  CHAPTER    FOR    INVALIDS,    FOR    INFANTS,    ONE     ON     JEWISH     COOKERS ; 

AND   A    VARIETY    OF    MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS    OF    SPECIAL 

VALUE  TO    HOUSEKEEPERS    GENERALLY. 


By  Mrs.  J.  C.  CROLY,  (Jennie  June.) 

AUTHOR  OF    "TALK*  ON    WOMEN'S  T0PIC8,"  ETC. 


••  What  doef»  cookery  mean  ?  '* 

"It  means  the  k.no\vle<1ge  of  Medea,  and  of  Ciree,  and  ofCJalypso,  aod  of  Ileleii, 
and  of  Rebekah,  aiid  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba.  It  means  the  knowledge  of  all 
fruits,  and  herbs,  and  balms,  and  spices — and  of  all  that  is  healinj,',  and  sweet  m 
fields,  and  troves,  and  savory  in  meats — it  means  carefulness,  and  inventiveness, 
and  watchful  11  ess,  and  willingness,  and  readiness  of  ap|»liance  It  means  the 
economy  of  your  {rreat-grandmothers,  and  the  science  of  jjiodem  chemists — r4 
means  much  tastings,  and  no  wasting — it  means  Knglish  thoroughness,  and 
French  art,  and  Arabian  hospitality,  and  it  means  in  tine,  that  you  are  to  be  per- 
fectly, afld  always  'ladies,' — '  loaf  givers,'  and  as  you  i.re  to  see  imperatively  thai 
everybody  has  something  pretty  to  put  on, — so  you  are  to  see,  even  yet  owht^  im- 
perativolv,  that  everybody  has  lomething  nice  to  eat." — Subblik. 


NEW  YORK : 

THE  AMERICAN  NEWS  COMPANY. 

39  AND  41  Chambeks  Street. 


Otbkutttr 


TO  THE  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS  OF  AMERICA. 


INTEODUCTION. 


"  Why  another  cook-book,  when  there  are  already  so 
many  ?  " 

Well,  for  several  reasons,  one  of  which  is,  that  when  an 
inquiry  was  made  for  a  good,  practical  cook-book,  we 
knew  not  which  to  recommend.  We  examined  a  great 
many,  and  found  some  good  for  one  thing,  and  some  for 
another;  but  few  containing  just  what  young,  middle  class 
houseke^Ders  want  to  know — arranged  in  a  clear,  avail- 
able form,  unencumbered  with  unnecessary  and  wordy 
details. 

A  very  small  number  of  the  printed  cookery  and  house- 
keeping books  have  been  written  by  women,  and  still  less 
by  persons  possessing  any  practical  knowledge  of  the  sub- 
ject of  which  they  were  treating.  The  majority  are 
clumsy  compilations  of  all  kinds  of  receipts — good,  bad, 
and  indifferent,  collected  from  various  sources,  and  put 
together  with  an  ignorance  as  profound,  of  their  results, 
as  if  they  had  been  written  in  an  unknown  language. 

There  are  certain  "  high  art "  cookery  books  that  are 
very  good  and  complete,  in  their  way ;  but  they  are  too 
elaborate  and  pretentious  for  the  class  for  whom  this  was 
written.  They  go  into  the  mysteries  of  French  dishes, 
and  tell  how  to  get  up  grand  dinners,  but  they  leave  the 
poor  young  wife,  who  wants  to  cook  a  chop  or  a  chicken, 


VI  I  NTRODUCTI  ON  . 

stuff  a  piece  of  veal,  and  make  a  pudding,  or  a  loaf  of 
bread  for  the  first  time  in  her  life,  quite  in  the  dark. 

It  is  not  claimed  for  the  present  volume,  by  the  author, 
that  it  fully  meets  the  necessities  of  the  case,  or  has  satis- 
factorily accomplished  its  task,  even  within  the  modest 
limits  assigned  to  it.  It  is  one  thing  to  think  how  some- 
thing may  be  done,  and  another  thing  to  do  it ;  but  it  is 
claimed  that  the  object  of  the  work  has  been  constantly 
kept  in  view,  that  it  has  been  executed  lovingly,  with  a 
strong  appreciation  of  the  benefit  and  pleasure  to  be  de- 
rived from  good  cooking,  from  the  intermingling  of  the 
finer  with  the  grosser  elements,  with  a  pleasant  remem- 
brance of  good  times  spent  in  the  kitchen,  and  with  an 
earnest  wish  to  make  these  duties  seem  attractive  to  the 
conscientious  young  wives  w^io  would  willingly  perform 
their  part,  if  they  but  knew  how. 

Dear  friends, — for  it  is  you,  for  whom  this  book  is  writ* 
ten,  and  to  whom  it  is  dedicated, — I  believe  in  you,  I  sym- 
pathize with  you,  because  I  am  one  of  you.  I  see  you  in 
your  lovely  young  wife-hood,  so  happy  in  your  treasures 
of  pantry  and  closet,  so  proud  of  your  first  culinary  suc- 
cess, and  of  your  lord  and  master's  high  appreciation  of 
it ;  and  I  would,  if  it  were  possible,  extend  the  loving 
halo  which  glorifies  every  act  of  affection  during  these 
first  happy  months,  to  all  your  future ;  so  that  no  weari- 
ness, no  pain,  no  distrust,  no  loss  of  anything  that  now 
makes  life  beautiful,  might  ever  come  near  you.  But 
this  IS  out  of  my  power.  I  can  only  wish  for  every  one  no 
more  clouds  than  is  necessary,  to  vary  and  make  beautifui 
the  matrimonial  sky,  and  sr  dear  friends, 

Farewell. 


TO    THE    READEE. 


A  NETV  edition  gives  me  the  opportunity  to  add  a 
chapter  to  tliis  little  work,  which,  I  hope,  will  give  it 
additional  interest  and  value,  and  also  to  oiler  a  word 
of  apology  and  explanation  to  my  readers. 

A  longer  experience  has  demonstrated  one  error, 
which  is  of  such  importance  to  young  mothers  that  I 
desire  to  correct  it  here.  This  is  in  regard  to  diluting 
milk,  in  the  chapter  upon  Food  for  Infants.  If  cow's 
milk  is  used  as  a  substitute  for  mother's  milk,  I  be- 
lieve now,  from  experience  and  observation,  that  it  is 
best  to  get  the  best  from  one  cow,  and  use  it  pure.  The 
child  is  better  nourished  on  a  much  smaller  quantity 
than  when  it  is  diluted,  and  is  much  less  liable  to  flatu- 
lence and  colic.  Sweeten  the  milk  slightly  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  warm  it  by  putting  the  bottle  in  water, 
which  should  be  gradually  heated.  I  may  remark,  how- 
ever, that  my  faith  in  prepared  barley,  as  food  for  in- 
fants, has  been  strengthened,  and  I  am  very  glad  it  is 
rapidly  being  brought  into  general  use. 

All  that  I  have  to  say  in  regard  to  the  receipts  con- 
tained in  the  additional  chapter  is,  that  they  are  genuine, 
and  were  obtained  directly,  excepting  in  one  instance, 
(where  it  was  furnished  by  a  friend,)  from  the  parties 
themselves.  All  that  I  have  to  beg  of  young  house- 
keepers is,  that  they  will  try  them  with  their  own  hands, 
and  not  turn  them  over  to  the  tender  mercies  of  Bridget. 
It  is  not  the  personal  extravagance  of  American  women 
that  is  sapping  the  foundation  of  American  homes.  It 
is  the  disintegrating  quality  of  our  domestic  service. 

Jennie  June  Croi.y. 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING. 


1.  The  object  of  cooking  is  to  make  food  healthful,  and  palata- 
ble ;  the  secret  is  therefore,  how  to  combine  elements  and  flavois, 
%o  as  to  produce  the  best  results. 

2.  The  best  meat  requires  the  simplest  preparation. 

3.  A  cardinal  principle  in  cooking  is  cleanliness  ;  a  dirty  cook 
cannot  be  a  good  cook,  because  all  her  dishes,  no  matter  how  dis- 
tinct in  quality,  or  costly  in  material,  will  taste  as  if,  to  use  a  com- 
mon expression,  they  were  **  cooked  in  one  pot." 

4.  As  a  general  rule,  to  which  there  are  very  few  exceptions, 
cook  long  and  slowly,  to  cook  well,  and  let  the  heat  reach  every 
part  as  evenly  as  possible. 

5.  Fresh  meats,  and  fish  are  better  than  corned,  pickled,  or 
smoked  provisions;  and  the  flesh  of  grown  animals, (beef  or  mut- 
ton) is  to  be  preferred  to  young  beasts,  such  as  veal  or  lamb. 

6.  The  natural  order  in  cooking  meats  or  fish,  excepting  oys- 
ters, is  first  to  broil,  second  to  boil,  third  to  roast,  fourth  to  stew, 
fifth  to  bake,  and  sixth  to  fry ;  and  never  to  fry,  as  long  as  there  is 
another  method  left. 

7.  To  retain  the  jucies  in  boiled  meat,  keep  it  in  mass  and  plunge 
it  in  boiling  water ;  this  coagulates  the  outer  coating  and  prevents 
t"lie  escape  of  the  jucies,  or  soluable  matter.  To  extract  the  ju- 
cies for  soup,  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  it  in  cold  water ; 
this  draws  out  all  the  strength,  making  good  soup,  but  poor  meat, 

8.  Air  shouki  have  access  to  roasting  meat,  hence  spit  roasting 
before  a  fire,  is  found  much  better  than  roasting  in  a  closed  oven. 

9.  Always  retain  as  much  as  possible  of  the  distinct  flavor  of 
every  article  of  food  used  ;  mixtures  which  make  all  dishes  taste 
alike,  are  dyspepsia  breeding,  as  well  as  appetite  killing. 

10.  Carefully  avoid  placing  articles  in  contact,  which  have  no 

1 


2  GENERAL   PRINCIPLES    OF    COOKING. 

affinity,  such  as  fish  and  meat,  etc.     It  is  sufficient  for  people  to 
do  that  in  their  stomachs. 

11.  A  light  hand  in  making,  a  quick  step  in  baking,  niaketh  a 
good  conscience  for  eating  bread,  puddings,  and  pies. 

12,  Food  for  the  well,  is  better  than  physic  for  the  sick.  Bad 
cooking  is  a  crime  ;  it  is  the  cause  of  dyspepsia,  and  a  host  of 
other  evils.  A  woman  convicted  of  it  ought  to  be  arrainged  for 
manslaughter. 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


The  great  question  when  a  young  couple  are  going  to  be  mar- 
ried is,  whether  they  shall  keep  house  or  board.  The  gentleman, 
as  a  general  rule,  wishes  to  keep  house,  he  is  tired  of  boarding, 
moreover,  he  had  anticipated  so  much  enjoyment  in  a  snug  little 
house  of  their  own,  and  so  much  pride  and  pleasure  in  seeing  his 
pretty  Nellie  at  the  head  of  his  table,  doing  the  honors  to  the 
choicest  of  his  friends. 

But  Nellie  has  quite  different  ideas ;  in  the  first  place,  she 
knows  nothing  about  cooking.  She  has,  with  the  help  of  hei 
mother,  or  the  cook,  made  cake  once  or  twice,  or  possibly  blanc- 
mange, which  was  very  much  praised ;  but  of  the  practical  details 
required  in  the  getting  up  of  the  most  ordinary  breakfast,  dinner, 
or  supper,  she  knows  nothing,  and  has  not  the  remotest  intention 
or  inclination  to  become  acquainted  with  them. 

The  final  result  is,  that  they  go  to  **  board"  in  some  highly  gen- 
teel establishment,  where  the  prices  are  high  in  proportion  to  the 
gentility  and  lack  of  real  comfort,  and  some  fine  morning  the 
young  gentleman  wakes  up  to  the  knowledge  that  he  is  tied  to  a  wife 
who  doubles  his  expenses,  but  has  added  nothing  to  his  happiness, 
or  at  any  rate,  nothing  to  the  real  value  and  usefulness  of  his  life. 

This  is  a  matrimonial  swindle.  Girls  ought  not  to  marry  until 
they  are  ready  and  willing  to  accept  the  position  of  head  of  a 
household,  and  capable  of  making  a  home  what  it  should  be  to 
husband  and  children. 

If  a  man  can  find  a  woman  to  act  as  his  mistress  for  her  board 
and  clothes,  well  and  good  —  there  is  no  law  to  prevent  it ;  but  for 
a  woman  bearing  the  honored  name  of  wife  to  hold  so  depeuJent 
and  humilating  a  position,  is  fearful  degradation. 

The  marriage  relation  is  one  of  reciprocal  interests,  duties,  and 
responsibilities ;  and  no  young  lady  ought  to  marry  until  she  is 


4  HOUSEKEEPING. 

willing  to  assume  her  share  of  them.  True  affection  on  the  part 
of  the  husband  will  lighten,  and  make  duties  pleasures,  but  what- 
ever aspect  they  bear,  she  must  not  slirink  from  them.  If  she  has 
not  received  the  training  necessary  to  fit  her  for  the  position,  it  is 
her  misfortune  ;  but  it  will  be  her  fault,  if  she  does  not  try  as  far  as 
possible  to  remedy  the  evil. 

Want  of  means  constitutes  no  sort  of  reason  why  young  married 
people  should  not  go  to  housekeeping.  What  we  spend  on  fool- 
ish and  useless  gewgaws  and  presents  would,  in  nine  cases  out  of 
ten,  if  usefully  applied,  set  them  up  in  a  style  quite  in  accordance 
with  their  means,  if  not  their  inclination. 

But  it  is  not  for  themselves  they  fear.  They  are  willing,  or  at 
least  they  think  so,  to  live  together  in  an  attic  ;  but  society  !  Well, 
what  has  society  got  to  do  with  it  ?  Society  will  not  pay  your 
butcher'^s  and  grocer^s  bills,  nor  care  a  copper  whether  they  are 
paid  or  not.  Society  will  eat  Ice-cream,  oysters,  and  cake  of  your 
providing,  but  that  is  not  what  you  are  marrying  for. 

You  have  chosen  a  comparatively  poor  man,  your  business  is  to 
adapt  yourself  to  his  circumstances,  to  p"vake  the  most  of  his  means 
in  providing  a  pleasant  home,  and  bringing  up  carefully  and  con- 
scientiously the  children  which  may  be  given  you.  If  society  find 
you  out,  or  if  you  find  it  worth  while  to  fill  up  any  of  the  chinks 
or  interstices  with  occasional  glimpses  of  the  false,  glittering,  out- 
side world  —  good!  you  will  come  back  to  your  sweet  home  with 
so  much  the  more  relish  ;  but  do  not  marry  it,  do  not  sacrifice  your 
own  sense  of  duty,  and  the  happiness  and  welfare  of  husband  and 
family  to  it. 

Talk  of  happiness, — there  is  none  like  that  of  an  intelligent,  af- 
fectionate family  circle.  There  is  no  pleasure,  no  enjoyment 
equal  to  that  of  a  mother  ministering  to  the  wants,  or  gratifying 
the  natural  and  innocent  tastes  of  her  children.  The  pleasure  is  all 
the  greater,  because  it  is  a  surprise. 

Young  women  very  often  dread  the  exacting  care  of  a  family,  and 
expect  to  find  wifely  and  maternal  duties  irksome  and  wearisome ; 
that  is  the  reason  why  they  would  so  willingly  escape  them, 
as  they  fancy,  by  boarding,  and  not  having  children. 

But  unfortunately,  or  fortunately,  God  has  managed  It  so  that 
we  cannot  take  the  pleasures  of  fife  without  bearing  its  pains ;  we 


HOUSEKEEPING.  O 

cannot  sliirk  a  plain  line  of  duty,  without  incurring  the  penalty. 
But  we  can,  and  do,  by  taking  upon  ourselves  bravely,  its  bur- 
dens, find  an  exaltation  of  womanhood,  and  a  hight  and  depth  of 
happiness,  such  as  we  never  before  dreamed  of. 

Exceptions  are  said  to  exist  to  every  general  rule  ;  but  there  are 
very  few  to  this,  that  when  people  marry,  they  ought  to  set  right 
about  making  a  home  of  their  own.  If  you  can  only  afford  two 
rooms,  live  in  two  rooms.  If  your  means  will  compass  a  small 
house,  but  not  a  large  one,  then  take  the  small  one,  and  be  happy 
and  thankful. 

I  would  not  give  a  wisp  of  straw  for  a  young  woman  who  does 
not  want,  on  her  marriage,  to  occupy  her  own  little  domain  ;  who 
does  not  revel  in  anticipation  over  the  contents  of  kitchen  and 
closet,  if  there  is  only  a  small  cook  stove  in  one,  and  a  set  of 
delf  in  the  other.     But  this  suggests  a  matter  of  some  importance. 


KITCHEN  FURNISHING. 

In  selecting  a  house  to  live  in,  particularly  if  it  is  a  small  one, 
give  the  preference  to  a  pleasant,  sunny  kitchen,  which  will  at 
least  look  clean  when  it  is  clean,  and  into  which  it  will  not  be  disa- 
greeable to  enter. 

As  a  general  rule,  buy  as  little  as  possible  on  first  going  to 
housekeeping ;  it  is  easy  to  add  more  when  experience  has  dis- 
covered to  you  precisely  what  you  want ;  but  If  you  should  indulge 
in  any  extravagance,  let  it  be  in  the  kitchen  furnishing. 

It  is  a  real  pleasure  to  get  a  glimpse  of  an  orderly  kitchen  ,and 
neat  closets,  newly  fitted  up  with  all  the  useful  modern  contriv- 
ances for  saving  labor,  and  making  it  agreeable,  and  as  the  whole 
cost  would  not  amount  to  more  than  one  expensive  carpet,  it  is 
not  worth  while  to  do  without  them. 

It  is  economical,  moreover,  to  have  all  kitchen  utensils  of  tha 
best  quality ;  cheap  pans,  brushes,  pails,  earthenware  and  the  like, 
are  not  only  an  '*  eyesore  "in  a  house,  and  bad  or  disagreeable  to 
use,  but  they  are  good  for  nothing :  they  eternally  want  replacing; 


6  HOUSEKEEPING. 

while  a  really  good  article  is  not  only  taken  better  c  are  of,  but 
will  stand  infinitely  more  of  hard  usage. 

Oil  cloth  is  the  best  material  for  covering  a  kitchen  floor ;  it  is 
easily  kept  clean,  and  does  not  absorb  the  dirt  and  grease. 

Short,  white  muslin  curtains  to  kitchen  windows  are  considered 
**  nonsense  "  by  some  people,  but  they  are  tidy,  and  the  cost  and 
washing  are  not  much. 

Of  course  the  kitchen  will  be  supplied  with  dresser,  table  with 
drawer,  and  ironing  table.  As  to  chairs,  three  and  a  common 
rocker  are  suflicient;  but  I  would  enliven  the  walls  with  a  picture 
or  two,  if  possible,  and  encourage  the  cook,  or  maid  of  all  work, 
to  have  her  monthly  rose  or  pot  of  geranium  in  the  window. 

Under  the  shelves  of  the  kitchen  closets,  it  is  a  good  plan  to 
have  narrow  strips  of  board,  in  which  nails  or  tacks  can  be  in- 
serted, for  the  purpose  of  hanging  .up  all  sorts  of  small  articles, 
such  as  iron  and  wooden  spoons,  sugar  and  flour  sifters,  tin  strain- 
ers, lemon  squeezer,  lemon  grater,  egg  beater,  skewers,  small 
sauce  pans,  cake  turner,  rolling  pin,  and  such  things  as  one  is  most 
likely  to  want,  and  which  it  is  convenient  to  have  in  sight. 

The  floors  of  all  closets  should  be  covered  with  oil-cloth,  so  that 
they  can  be  easily  washed  up,  and  kept  neat  and  clean. 


HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT. 

Women  are  sometimes  accused  of  managing  too  much,  and 
sometimes  of  not  managing  at  all ;  but  the  most  perfect  system  of 
management  is,  undoubtedly,  that  which  outwardly  betrays  itself 
least,  and  in  the  results  of  which,  there  is  not  suspected  tc  have 
been  any  management  at  all. 

Kegularity  is  the  pivot  upon  which  all  household  management 
turns ;  where  there  is  a  lack  of  system  there  is  a  lack  of  comfort, 
that  no  amount  of  individual  effort  can  supply.  Forethought  also 
is  necessary,  so  that  the  work  may  be  all  arranged  beforehand ; 
done  in  its  proper  order,  and  at  the  right  time.  Never,  except 
in  cases  of  extreme  emergency,  allow  Monday's  washing  to  be  put 


HOUSEKEEPING.  7 

off  till  Tuesday ;  Tuesday's  ironing  till  Wednesday,  or  Wednes* 
day's  finishing  up  and  **  setting  to  rights,"  till  Thursday.  Leave 
Thursday  for  extra  work  ;  or  when  that  is  not  required,  for  rest- 
ing day,  or  half  holiday,  and  as  a  preparation  for  the  up  stairs' 
sweeping  and  dusting  of  Friday,  and  the  downstairs'  baking  and 
scrubbing  of  Saturday. 

Arrange  work  so  as  to  save  fuel  as  much  as  possible.  Mix 
bread  at  night,  so  that  it  will  be  ready  to  bake  with  that  **  first 
fire  "  Avhich  always  makes  the  oven  hot  in  the  morning.  Prepare 
fruit  over  night,  so  that  pies  or  other  things  can  be  quicklv  made 
and  baked  immediately  after.  Prepare  hashes  for  breakfast,  over 
night.  Have  the  kitchen  and  dining  room  put  in  order  before  re- 
tiring to  rest.  Have  kindlings  and  whatever  Is  needed  for  build- 
ing fires  laid  ready,  and  the  fire  m  the  kitchen  raked  down,  so 
that  it  can  be  built  up  in  the  shortest  possible  space  of  time.  This 
is  not  only  a  saving  in  the  morning,  but  will  be  found  useful  in 
case  of  illness  in  the  night,  when  a  fire  is  often  required  at  a  mo- 
ment's notice. 

Try  to  buy  in  as  large  quantities  as  possible,  so  as  to  save  the 
perpetual  running  out  to  the  grocery.  Supplies  on  hand  also  en- 
able the  housekeeper  to  provide  a  more  varied  table,  with  far 
greater  economy  than  is  possible  where  every  thing  is  bought  by 
the  half  a  pound,  more  or  less. 

Every  family  that  can  possibly  find  means  to  do  it,  or  a  place 
to  properly  keep  the  articles,  should  commence  winter  with  fuel, 
potatoes,  apples,  flour,  and  butter,  enough  to  last  till  Spring.  A 
good  supply  of  hominy,  rice,  farina,  Indian  meal,  preserved  fish, 
and  other  staples,  including  sugar,  should  also  be  laid  in,  not  for- 
getting a  box  of  raisins,  one  of  currants,  a  third  of  soap,  and  a 
fourth  of  starch. 

There  is  such  an  immense  saving  in  soap  well  dried,  that  it  ia 
surprising  so  many  housekeepers  content  themselves  with  buy- 
ing it  in  damp  bars.  Starch  also  is  frightfully  wasted  by  quarter, 
and  half  pound  purchases,  which  are  frequently  all  absorbed  atone 
time,  by  careless  girls,  in  doing  the  washing  for  a  small  family. 

But  in  most  American  families,  the  largest  amount  of  waste, 
probably,  takes  place  in  the  use  of  fuel.  Heretofore,  fuel  of  all 
kinds  has  been  comparatively  chexp,  and  very  little  supervision  ha8 


8  nOUSEKEEriNG. 

been  exercised  over  Its  use.  At  present  rates  however,  it  is  an 
item  of  considerable  importance  ;  and  it  is  quite  time  that  servants 
were  taught  how  to  employ  it  to  the  best  advantage. 

In  nine  out  of  ten  kitchens,  when  there  is  any  cooking  to  be  done 
the  range  is  made  red  hot ;  when  the  cooking  is  done,  the  fire  is 
left  to  go  down  to  ashes,  and  Is  then  raised  by  means  of  a  wasteful 
pile  of  kindlmg  wood.  When  no  cooking  is  going  on,  and  a  large 
fire  is  not  needed,  the  dampers  will  frequently  be  left  open,  and 
the  fuel  allowed  to  blaze  itself  out  up  the  chimney  instead  of  being 
kept  in  reserve  for  actual  service. 

The  general  principle  of  construction  upon  which  American 
kitchen  stoves  and  ranges  is  based,  renders  them  either  very  eco- 
nomical, or  very  much  otherwise,  according  to  the  way  they  are  man- 
aged. After  the  fire  is  first  built  in  an  ordinary  stove,  or  range,  the 
dampers  ought  all  to  be  closed  up  and  not  opened  again  dunng  the 
day,  except  while  broiling,  or  something  of  that  sort.  If  the  grate 
is  kept  clear,  and  the  fire  replenished  with  a  small  quantity  of  coal, 
before  it  begins  to  get  low,  both  the  oven,  and  the  top  of  the  range 
will  be  kept  sufficiently  hot  for  any  kind  of  cooking,  and  it  will  be 
done  all  the  better  for  being  done  somewhat  more  slowly,  than  is 
customary  with  the  well  meaning,  but  terribly  blundering,  and 
irresponsible  race  of  wild  Irish  girls,  who  officiate  as  the  high 
priestesses  of  our  domestic  altars. 

The  strictest  attention  on  the  part  of  a  house-keeper,  is  necessa- 
ry, to  see  that  certain  articles  are  kept  for  their  proper  use  ;  for 
instance,  that  the  dish  cloth  is  not  used  for  a  floor  cloth,  that  the 
napkins  are  not  used  to  wipe  up  the  dishes,  the  dish  towels  as 
dusters,  a  new  broom  to  sweep  out  the  back  yard,  and  the  best  new 
enamelled  sauce  pan,  for  melting  down  grease. 

Where  the  lady  of  the  house  attends  partly  to  her  own  work, 
she  will  naturally  see  to  all  these  things  :  but  where  it  is  left  wholly 
to  servants,  there  are  always  complaints  of  missing  articles,  and  an 
inspection  of  the  kitchen,  or  ironing  table  drawer,  would  generally 
bring  them  all  to  light,  although  in  a  state  almost  unrecognizable, 
from  dirt,  and  their  contiguity  to  whitening,  hair  oil,  candle  grease, 
combs  and  brushes,  and  other  articles,  all  of  which  it  is  found 
•*  handy  "  to  keep  in  a  drawer  in  the  kitchen,  with  mats,  table  cloths, 
towels,  and  other  things  destined  for  family  use. 


HOUSEKEEPING.  U 

It  is  hardly  necessary  after  this  to  say  that  a  kitchen  being  once 
provided  with  necessary  and  convenient  articles  for  cleaning  and 
cooking,  the  presiding  genius  should  be  held  to  a  strict  accounta- 
bility for  them.  Pudding  cloths  should  be  forthcoming  whenever 
wanted,  —  dry,  clean,  and  free  from  stains  ;  towels,  napkins,  pans, 
bowls,  and  cooking  utensils,  should  be  kept  strictly  to  their  uses, 
and  not  put  away  till  perfectly  clean  and  dry. 

Ironing  sheets,  blankets,  skirt  board,  bosom  board,  Iron  holder, 
rubber,  and  the  like,  should  be  kept  smoothly  folded  in  the  drawer 
of  the  ironing  table,  when  not  in  use. 

The  shelves  of  kitchen,  dining-room,  and  other  closets,  should 
be  covered  with  fresh  paper,  neatly  cut  out  on  the  edges,  once  in 
two  weeks,  and  dusted  down  twice  a  week. 

Pot  closets,  safes,  and  refrigerators,  should  be  thoroughly  scrub- 
bed out  every  week,  and  the  latter  aired  every  day. 

Good  brooms  and  brushes  will  last  a  long  time  if  care  is  taken 
of  them.  AVhen  first  bought  they  should  be  allowed  to  stand  in 
cold  water  tor  twelve  hours,  and  then  thoroughly  dried  before  using 
When  not  in  use,  they  should  be  hung  up  by  a  loop  of  twine,  or 
cord,  so  that  the  weight  may  not  rest  on  the  edge  of  the  splinters, 
and  break  them.  Four  large  brooms  should  be  provided,  one  for 
the  kitchen,  one  for  the  parlor,  one  for  the  sleeping  rooms,  and  one 
for  the  family,  or  ''living"  room.  A  **  whisk"  will  be  required 
for  every  room  in  the  house,  besides  one  for  the  hall. 

As  soon  as  the  kitchen  broom  is  worn  down  so  as  to  render  it 
unfit  to  sweep  the  floor  with  ease  and  comfort,  take  it  for  the  cel- 
lar, door  steps,  and  back  yard ;  take  the  one  from  the  sitting  room 
for  the  kitchen,  the  one  from  the  parlor  to  the  sitting  room,  and 
get  a  new  one  for  the  parlor. 

Exact  punctuality  in  serving  the  meals,  and  punctual  attendance 
at  them  ;  It  Is  oflener  the  fault  of  the  family,  than  the  servants,  that 
meals  are  served  at  irregular  hours.  Where  the  members  make  a 
practice  of  sitting  down  any  time,  and  food  Is  kept  waiting  until 
it  suits  their  pleasure  or  convenience  to  partake  of  it,  irrespect- 
ive of  household  necessities,  servants,  or  any  one  else,  will  nat- 
urally become  careless  and  neglectful. 

HOUSEHOLD   MEMORANDA. 

Dried  herbs  should  be  tied  each  separately  in  a  paper  bag,  and 


10    •  TlOUSLKLEPINd. 

hung  against  tlio  wall  in  tho  sloro-rooui.  Mint,  pennyroyal,  cat- 
nip, sage,  thyme,  summer-savory  and  parsley,  are  all  good  to 
have  in  the  house. 

Parsley  should  be  bunched  before  it  goes  to  seed,  and  hung  up 
to  dry.  In  a  week,  or  two,  it  may  be  put  in  paper  bags,  and  is 
ready  for  use,  for  soup,  stuffing,  or  fricassee. 

riECE  BAGS. 

Out  of  an  old  calico  dress  make  three  piece  bags,  and  label  each 
one  of  them  with  its  written  name  upon  a  small  square  piece  of 
white  muslin,  which  must  be  sewn  upon  the  side  of  the  bag.  One 
should  be  the  ^'  rag-bag,"  another  the  '^  white  piece-bag,"  a  third 
the  ^^  colored  piece-bag," — they  will  be  found  very  useful. 

DUSTERS. 

Provide  a  duster,  as  well  as  a  feather  brush,  and  a  whisk  broom, 
for  every  room  in  the  house,  and  see  that  they  are  kept  in  their 
place,  when  not  in  use. 

KITCHEN    HOLDERS. 

Make  three  kitchen  holders,  one  to  put  away  with  the  ironing 
apiDaratus,  two  others,  to  be  hung  ux3,  one  each  side,  under  the 
kitchen  mantle  piece,  so  as  to  be  ready  tor  lifting  pots  and  kettles 
off  the  fire,  or  taking  hold  of  the  hot  handle  of  a  sauce  pan,  or 
skillet.  Small  squares  of  old,  or  new  carpet,  are  best,  with  an. 
inner  lining  of  old  cloth,  and  an  outer  one  of  dark  twilled  cotton, 
which  may  either  be  sewed  to  the  edge  of  the  carpet,  or  the  whole 
may  be  bound  with  worsted  binding.    Add  a  loop  to  hang  it  up  by. 

PAPER   AND   STRING. 

When  parcels  are  brought  to  the  house,  take  the  nice  white,  or 
brown  tissue  paper,  in  which  the  goods  have  been  wrapped,  fold  it 
and  put  it  away  in  a  drawer,  with  the  string  tied  round  it,  to  be 
ready  for  use  in  case  of  emergency. 

MENDING. 

When  you  put  the  clean  clothes  away  for  the  family,  examine 
every  piece,  and  see  if  a  string,  or  a  button  needs  replacing,  or  a 


HousnKccpiNa.  11 

fracture  requires  mending.    Pile  ill  together,  and  repair  them  at 
once,  remembering  that  a  stitch  in  time  saves  nine. 

MENDING  STOCKINGS. 

Mending  stockings  for  a  large  family  is  a  somewhat  onerous, 
and  not  altogether  agreeable  duty.  As  soon  as  the  daughters  are 
old  enough  they  should  beset  to  mending  their  own;  but  even 
then, there  is  sometimes  a  large  pile  for  ^'mother's"  work  basket. 
Do  not  hurry  them;  however,  mend  them  conscientiously,  if  it  is 
only  one  pair  at  a  time.  Have  needle  and  darning  cotton  of  the 
proper  size,  take  a  large  area  in  every  direction  beyond  the  hole, 
leave  loops  at  each  end  of  the  thread,  as  it  is  drawn  out,  for  shrink- 
age— and  darn  carefully  and  extensively  over  all  the  thin  places. 
Hose  mended  in  this  way  will  not  require  the  process  more  than 
twice,  during  their  existence,  provided  the  quality  in  the  first 
place  was  the  best.     Cheap  hose  are  not  worth  buying  at  all. 

RAINY  DAYS. 

Make  the  house  look  as  bright  as  possible  inside,  have  some- 
thing good  for  tea,  pat  on  a  pretty  dress,  light  up  early,  romp 
with  the  children,  tell  them  stories,  and  determine  at  least  to 
have  sunshine  in  the  house,  if  you  cannot  have  it  outside. 

PACKING  AWAY  SUMMER  OR  WINTER  CLOTHES. 

Before  packing  away  summer  or  winter  clothes,  devoteQj  day  to 
an  examination  of  them;  mend,  and  clean  any  spots  off  that  may 
require  it,  brush,  and  shake  them  well,  fold  up  smoothly,  and 
sprinkle  between  every  fold  a  little  gum  camphor,  unless  you  are 
80  fortunate  as  to  have  cedar  chests,  and  then  you  will  not  need 
it.  Sprinkle  a  little  gum  camphor  also  on  the  bottom  of  common 
trunks  or  chests,  pack  closely,  filling  up  all  the  crevices  with  small 
articles,  such  as  stockings,  gloves,  scarfs,  hoods  and  the  like,  re- 
serving the  body  part  of  the  box  for  the  larger  garments. 

Nice  dresses,  velvet  cloaks,  opera  cloaks,  furs,  and  the  like, 
should  be  folded  in  sheets,  or  towels,  pinned  tightly  doAvn,  and 
be  placed  in  the  trays,  or  hollow  parts  of  trunks,  by  themselves, 
if  possible. 


12  HOUSEKEEPING. 

CAKE   BOX. 

Have  a  japanned  box,  or  large  jar,  for  cake,  wliich  will  shut 
down  tight  Cover  it  with  a  linen  cloth,  which  should  be  put  in 
the  wash  once  in  two  weeks.  Empty  the  box,  scald  it  out,  and 
let  it  dry  in  the  sun,  or  before  the  fire,  every  week. 

CHAMBER,  MANTEL,  AND  TOILET  COVERS. 

White  Marseilles,  thin  pique  or  Allendale  quilting,  edged  with 
white  ball,  or  twisted  fringe,  makes  nice  covers  for  toilet  stands, 
or  chamber  mantels,  especially  where  cottage  furniture  is  used. 
If  the  furniture  is  very  handsome  black  walnut,  or  rosewood, 
elegant  mantel  covers  may  be  made  by  tacking  patent  maroon 
velvet  on  a  thin  board,  and  edging  it  with  bullion  fringe. 

TO  CLEAN    LOOKING  GLASSES. 

Divide  a  newspaper  in  two  halves,  fold  up  one  in  a  small  square 
and  dip  it  in  cold  water.  Rub  the  glass  first  with  the  wet  half  of 
the  paper,  and  dry  with  the  other.  Fly  specks,  and  all  other 
dirty  marks  will  disappear  as  if  by  magic. 

TO  TAKE   OUT  SCORCH. 

If  a  shirt  bosom,  or  any  other  article  has  unfortunately  been 
scorched  in  ironing,  lay  it  where  bright  sunshine  will  fall  straight 
upon  it.  It  will  take  it  entirely  out,  leaving  it  clean  and  white 
as  snow. 

LABEL  CHILDREN. 

Into  the  crowns  of  the  hats  or  bonnets  of  little  children,  sew  a 
square  of  writing  paper,  stating  age,  and  residence.  This  will 
save  them  from  any  danger  of  being  lost. 

WASH  RAGS. 

Small  squares  of  crash  hemmed,  make  very  nice  wash  rags,  or 
small,  coarse  tea  napkins,  fringed  on  the  sides ;  very  good  ones 
may  also  be  made  out  of  the  best  part  of  old  dinner  napkins,  or 
tablecloths.  Be  careful  always  to  supply  them  to  every  sleeping- 
room  with  the  towels,  and  see  that  they  are  changed  once  a  week. 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


NIGHT  CLOTHES. 


13 


Neyer  wear  anything  at  night  that  you  have  worn  dnring  tlie 
day,  nor  during  the  day,  that  you  have  worn  at  night. 

TO  PUT  OUT  FIRE. 

In  all  such  cases,  great  promptitude  and  quickness  is  neces- 
sary. The  thing  to  be  done  is,  to  crush  it  out ;  either  with  rugs, 
mats,  blankets,  or  whatever  else  is  handy. 

If  the  fire  is  in  a  chimney,  fire  a  pistol  into  it,  or  put  salt  on  it, 
and  close  up  the  draft  of  the  fire-place  by  pinning  a  quilt  up  over 
it.  This  last  precaution  alone  will  generally  prevent  danger,  un- 
less there  should  happen  to  be  a  high  wind. 

SHEETS. 

When  sheets  are  beginning  to  wear  in  the  middle,  sew  the  sel- 
vage sides  together,  tear  them  in  two,  and  hem  down  the  sides ; 
they  will  last  enough  longer  to  pay  for  the  trouble,  especially  at 
present  price  of  muslin. 

PAY  AS  YOU  GO. 

Keep  no  books,  and  never  run  accounts  with  stores ;  pay  far 
what  you  buy  when  you  buy  it,  and  so  save  much  money  and  trouble 
and  prevent  many  disagreeable  mistakes. 

HOW  TO   CLEAR  A  TABLE. 

Collect  all  the  food  together  first,  and  dispose  of  it,  neatly  and 
carefully.  Put  all  the  spoons  together,  all  the  forks  together,  and 
all  the  knives  together.  If  you  have  a  small  pitcher  partly  full 
of  warm  water  on  the  table,  put  the  knives  into  that,  blades 
down.  Scrape  the  plates  clean,  and  empty  all  the  slops  from  the 
tea  and  coffee  cups  into  the  slop  bowl.  Have  ready  your  clean 
light  wooden  tub,  two  thirds  full  of  hot  water,  little  mop,  piece 
of  soap,  and  tin  pan  of  warm  water  for  rinsing.  Wash  the  glasses 
first,  with  a  little  soap,  and  rinse  them,  then  the  spoons,  then  the 
cups  and  saucers,  then  the  silver  forks,  then  the  plates,  lastly,  the 
larger  dishes.  Dry  quickly  with  nice  large  fine  linen  crash  towels. 
Be  careful  not  to  put  the  handle  of  knives  into  hot  water,  or 


14 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


Bilver  knives  where  they  can  touch  the  forks,  as  that  will  scratch 
thorn.  The  quicker  the  whole  operation  is  performed,  the 
brighter  and  nicer  the  ware  will  be. 


MATTRESSES. 

Mattresses  are  used  universally  now  in  preference  to  feather 
beds ;  and  to  save  trouble,  some  peoi)le  straighten  the  clothes 
over  them  just  as  they  rise.  This  is  very  bad,  they  ought  to  be 
turned  every  day,  and  exposed  to  the  air  some  time  before  the 
bed  is  made  up. 


HINTS  ON  ECONOMY. 

Provide  on  Saturday  for  Monday,  so  as  not  to  take  up  the 
fire  with  cooking,  or  time  in  running  errands,  any  more  than  is 
possible  on  washing  day. 

Wait  till  articles,  fruit,  fish,  poultry  and  vegetables,  are  in 
full  season,  before  purchasing.  They  are  then  not  only  much 
lower  in  price  than  when  first  brought  to  market,  but  finer  in 
quality  and  flav^or. 

Outside  garments,  bonnets,  cloaks,  hats,  shawls,  scarfs  and 
the  like,  will  last  clean  and  fresh  much  longer,  if  the  dust  is  care- 
fully removed  from  them  by  brushing  and  shaking  after  return- 
ing from  a  ride  or  a  walk. 

When  your  apples  begin  to  rot,  pick  the  specked  ones  out 
carefully;  stew  them  up  with  cider  and  sugar,  and  fill  all  your 
empty  self-sealing  cans.  In  this  way  you  may  keep  in  nice  apple 
sauce  till  apples  come  again. 

Pickle  or  preserve  jars  should  be  washed  in  lukewarm  or 
cold  water,  and  dried  in  the  sun  or  near  the  fire.  Hot  water 
cracks  the  polished  surface  of  the  inside,  and  renders  them  unfit 
for  their  specific  use. 


HOUSEKEEPING.  15 

Never  allow  children  to  eal  butter  with  meat  or  gravy ;  it 
is  both  wasteful  and  injurious. 

Hot  buckwheat  cakes  will  go  farther  and  last  longer  than 
any  other  single  article  of  food.  A  celebrated  Judge  declared 
that  he  could  remain  in  court  all  day^  without  feeling  a  symptom 
of  hunger,  after  a  breakfast  of  buckwheat  cakes. 

A  STEW  is  not  a  bad  dish  for  a  family  dinner,  once  a  week; 
make  it  of  good  meat,  and  savory  with  sweet  herbs,  and  the  most 
fastidious  will  not  object  to  it. 

Rise  early  on  fine  summer  mornings,  and  throw  all  the  win- 
dows of  the  house  open,  so  that  it  may  exchange  its  close  atmos- 
phere for  the  cool,  fresh  air.  Have  the  work  done  before  the 
heat  of  the  day  comes  on,  and  save  it  as  much  as  possible  during 
the  warmest  weather. 

Take  care  of  the  food  that  is  brought  into  the  house,  and 
see  that  none  of  it  is  wasted ;  but  do  not  be  always  on  the  lookout 
for  eheaj)  things.  Beans  are  cheap,  and  very  good  sometimes ; 
corn  meal  is  cheap  too,  and  even  more  available,  because  it  can 
be  made  into  a  great  variety  of  dishes,  but  people  would  not  care 
to  live  on  beans  and  corn  meal  all  the  time,  because  they  are 
cheap.  Eating  is  intended  as  a  means  of  enjoyment,  as  well  as  of 
sustaining  life ;  and  it  is  right  to  avail  ourselves  of  the  abundant 
resources  provided,  as  far  as  we  can  consistently. 

Use  tea  leaves,  or  short,  freshly  cut  grass,  to  sprinkle  upon 
carpets  before  sweeping.  It  will  freshen  up  the  colors,  and  save 
the  usual  cloud  of  dust. 

Have  everything  clean,  on  Saturday  night,  something  nice 
for  tea,  and  also  for  Sunday  morning  breakfast.  Let  the  approach 
of  the  Sabbath  be  anticipated  in  all  things,  with  pleasure.  Stay 
at  home  with  the  childron  on  Sabbath  evening,  and  finish  the  day 
with  a  sacrod  concert. 


16 


IIOUSEKEKPING. 


Allow  no  holes,  or  corners  in  the  house,  in  drawers,  on 
shelves,  or  in  closets,  for  the  stowiug  away  of  dirty  rags,  old  bot- 
tles, grease-pots,  and  broken  crockery.  When  bottles  are  emptied, 
let  them  be  cleaned  and  put  down  in  the  cellar,  until  they  are 
wanted.  Harbor  no  dirty  grease-pots,  and  when  an  article  is 
broken  past  recovery,  throw  it  away  at  once ;  there  is  no  use  in 
keeping  it  to  collect  dust,  and  cobwebs. 

Make  a  point  of  examining  safe,  refrigerator,  closets,  drawers, 
and  all  receptacles  for  food,  and  kitchen  articles,  at  least  as  often 
as  once  a  week,  either  Saturday,  or  washing  day.  Look  into 
pickle  jars,  bread  jars,  cake  jars,  butter  tubs,  apple,  and  potato 
barrels,  everything  in  fact,  examine  their  condition,  see  if  they  are 
kept  covered  and  clean,  and  that  food  put  away  is  not  left  to 
spoil,  or  be  wasted. 

The  fewer  servants  the  better— two  requires  a  third  to 
wait  upon  them,  and  so  on  ad  wjinitnm.  Have  good  servants  how- 
ever, pay  good  wages,  and  make  them  resi)onsible  for  their  work. 

If  it  is  possible,  and  when  there  is  a  will  there  is  a  way,  call 
your  household  together,  after  breakfast  every  morning,  and  have 
domestic  worship,  be  it  ever  so  short.  A  verse  of  a  hymn,  a  pas- 
sage from  the  Bible,  and  just  a  few  words  of  heartfelt  prayer,  and 
praise,  sets  everything  right  for  the  day,  smooths  ruffled  tempers, 
and  puts  the  domestic  machine  in  nicely  running  order.  It  is  also 
no  bad  preparation  for  the  temptations  and  annoyances  of  busi- 
ness. 

Before  sweeping  a  room,  have  the  furniture,  and  especially 
all  the  small  articles,  dusted  and  removed.  This  keeps  them 
looking  fresh,  and  new. 

Wear  pretty  morning  dresses  ;  they  are  inexpensive,  and 
easily  preserved  from  injury,  by  a  large  calico  apron  enveloping 
the  skirt  of  the  dress,  and  sleeves  of  the  same  kind,  gathered  into 
a  band,  top,  and  bottom,  and  extending  over  the  elbows.  These 
can  be  slipped  on  and  off  in  a  minute,  and  with  a  bib  added  to 


HOUSEKEEPING.  17 

the  apron  in  front,  affords  complete  protection,  while  engaged  in 
dusting,  making  pastry,  and  the  like. 

Always  hav^.  your  table  served  neatly,  and  then  if  friends 
"  happen  in,"  you  will  not  be  ashamed  to  ask  them  to  share  your 
meal.  Be  hospitable,  if  it  is  only  a  crust,  and  a  cup  of  cold 
water ;  if  it  is  clean  and  good  of  its  kind,  there  is  no  reason  to 
blush  for  it ;  the  hearty  welcome  will  make  amends  for  the  ab- 
sence of  rich  viands. 

If  children  want  anything  between  meals,  which  they 
should  not,  give  them  a  cracker,  or  an  apple;  do  not  encourage 
an  irregular  and  unheal  thy  appetite,  by  giving  them  pie,  cake,  or 
gingerbread. 


RULES  FOR  EATING. 

1.  Eat  slowly  as  if  it  were  a  pleasure  you  desired  to  prolong, 
rather  than  a  duty  to  be  got  rid  of  as  quickly  as  x)ossible. 

2.  Don^t  bring  your  prejudices,  your  dislikes,  your  annoy- 
ances, your  past  misfortunes,  or  future  forebodings,  to  the  table 
— they  would  spoil  the  best  dinner. 

3.  Respect  the  hours  of  meals,  you  have  no  right  to  injure  the 
temper  of  the  cook,  destroy  the  flavor  of  the  viands,  and  the  com- 
fort of  the  family,  by  your  want  of  punctuality. 

4.  Have  as  much  variety  in  your  food  as  possible,  but  not 
many  dishes  served  at  one  time. 

5.  Find  as  little  fault  with  the  food  prepared  as  possible,  and 
praise  whenever  you  can. 

6.  Finally,  be  thankful  if  you  have  not  meat,  that  you  have 
at  least  an  appetite,  and  hope  for  something  more  and  better  in 
the  future. 


THE  USE   OF  FUEL. 

There  is  no  department  of  housekeeping  in  which  our  national 
spirit  of  waste  and  extravagance  is  more  clearly  exemplified,  than 


18  HOUSEKEEPING. 

in  oxir  use  of  fuel.  Even  the  enormous  advance  in  prices  has  led 
to  no  retrenchment  or  reform  in  this  respect.  Coal  and  wood  are 
just  as  recklessly  as  ever  shovelled  into  the  cellar.  Bridget  makes 
the  same  blazing  tires,  subject  to  no  supervision,  except  a  faint 
general  direction,  to  ^'  sift  the  cinders  every  morning ;"  and 
Bridget  says  '•  yes^m  "  as  usual,  but  there  being  nobody  to  see,  or 
know  whether  she  does  or  not,  in  nineteen  cases  out  of  twenty, 
she  does  not  do  it. 

Every  little  while  through  the  day,  the  fires  are  raked  down, 
and  fresh  coal  put  on,  the  dampers  of  stove  or  range  left  wide 
open,  and  for  so  much  cooking  as  a  cup  of  tea,  or  a  dish  of  pota- 
toes, a  fresh  fire  built  with  range  made  red  hot,  and  as  much  fuel 
wasted  as  would  have  cooked  a  thanksgiving  dinner. 

GRATE  FIRES. 

These  are  generally  considered  as  requiring  a  great  deal  of  coal, 
and  so  they  do,  under  the  usual  system  of  management  in  this 
country.  But  let  us  see  how  they  manage  grate  fires  in  England. 

The  grate  is  cleared,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  scattering 
cinders,  which  forms  a  sort  of  body,  for  the  paper,  which  is  torn 
up  in  small  pieces,  and  crushed  down,  and  the  wood,  which  is 
neatly  and  compactly  laid  "  across  and  across."  When  the  larg- 
est and  best  cinders  remaining  are  picked  out  and  thrown  on,  a 
match  is  applied,  cinders  are  still  put  on  wherever  they  are  needed 
to  catch  the  blaze,  and  when  the  wood  is  burnt  down,  and  the 
cinders  are  all  a-glow,  fresh  coal  is  used  to  fill  up  the  grate.  The 
ashes  are  then  sifted,  the  cinders,  which  are  fine  and  small, 
damped,  and  when  the  fire  has  burned  red  through,  ivithoiU  the 
use  of  the  blower,  the  wet  cinders  are  thrown  on  the  top.  In  this 
way  a  grate  fire  will  last  through  a  whole  day  with  once  replen- 
ishing, and  keep  a  room  warmer  than  we  do,  without  blaze,  our 
fiequent  uce  of  the  blower,  and  reckless  waste  of  fuel. 

KITCHEN  RANGES. 

Nearly  all  of  these  are  built  on  the  air  tight  principle,  and 
should  be  kept  closed  up  tight  all  the  time.  The  fire  will  be  found 
to  burn  equally  well,  though  more  moderately ;  the  oven  will  be 
always  hot,  and  cooking  can  be  done  slowly,  as  it  ought,  on  the 


HOUSEKEEPING.  19 

top  of  the  range,  with  much  less  trouble,  and  infinitely  better 
than  if  ^'  rushed  through,"  at  a  red  heat. 

PARLOR  HEATERS. 

These  new  heaters  are  very  good  for  small  houses ;  we  used  one 
for  years,  with  great  satisfaction,  and  found  it  quite  as  efficient, 
and  much  safer,  more  convenient  and  more  economical  than  a 
furnace. 

Parlor  heaters  are  fitted  into  the  wall,  and  take  up  no  more 
room  than  a  grate  ;  they  should  be  attended  to  with  regularity, 
and  then  the  tire  will  hardly  ever  need  to  go  out;  once  in  two 
months  is  quite  as  often  as  it  requires  to  be  made  up  fresh.  At 
night,  wetted  cinders  should  be  thrown  on  the  fire  so  as  to  thickly 
cover  it  while  it  is  good,  and  the  dampers  shut  up  close ;  these 
will  keep  the  fire  almost  intact  till  the  next  morning,  when  a 
thorough  raking  down  will  be  needed.  A  parlor  heater  properly 
managed,  burns  out  about  as  much  coal  as  one  large  grate  or  two 
small  stoves;  but  excepting  in  the  very  coldest  weather,  it  will 
comfortably  heat  the  whole  house. 

SPRING  FUEL. 

Coke  is  excellent  fuel  for  spring  and  fall,  if  it  is  carefully  and 
rightly  used  ;  but  if  it  is  mixed  with  hard  coal  and  thrown  on  a 
kitchen  fire  by  a  reckless  servant,  at  discretion,  it  becomes  equally 
extravagant  and  useless.  Coke  makes  a  bright,  hot  fire,  kindles 
easily,  and  goes  out  easily  ;  but  it  can  also  be  made  to  last  a  long 
while,  by  packing  it  a  little  on  top,  and  neglecting  to  rake  it  down. 
This  is  the  method  for  early  spring,  when  fires  are  required  in  the 
morning  and  evening,  but  not  much  through  the  sunshiny  part  of 
the  day. 

A  great  saving  is  eifected  in  spring  fuel,  by  putting  the  ^^  slack'' 
from  coal,  in  a  heap  by  itself,  and  Avith  it,  ashes  from  which  the 
cinders  have  not  been  taken.  Dampen  the  heap  occasionally  with 
a  little  water,  and  add  to  it,  whenever  there  is  material.  Doing 
this  through  the  coldest  weather  will  form  a  sort  of  compost, 
hard  and  insoluble,  which  can  be  broken  apart,  and  furnishes 
si^lendid  fuel  for  spring  grate  fires,  or  for  parlor  heaters. 


SOUPS. 


STOCKS. 

Stock  is  tbe  foundation  of  soups,  and  also  of  good  gravies, 
sauces,  and  the  like.  A  Frencli  cook  can  do  notliing  without  the 
stock  pot,  and  keeps  it  supplied  in  a  way  that  is  both  useful,  and 
economical. 

Stock  can  be  made  to  keep  for  a  considerable  time,  and  be  used 
for  many  purposes,  if  occasional  additions  are  made,  and  the  whole 
of  the  liquor  re-scalded.  It  may  hd  made  from  meat,  or  from  bones, 
or  from  both,  or  it  may  be  made  from  bones  with  the  addition  of 
refuse  meat,  the  trimmings  of  regular  joints.  Chicken  and  tur- 
key bones  may  be  thrown  in,  and  will  help  to  enrich,  and  give 
flavor  to  the  preparation.  Any  kind  of  bones  w^ith  a  little  meat 
upon  them,  will  make  good  stock,  if  they  are  simmered,  not  boiled, 
long  enough,  and  beef,  mutton,  veal,  poultry,  and  other  bones 
may  be  stewed  together.  In  stewing  them  down,  use  the  liquor 
if  you  have  it,  in  which  other  meat  has  been  boiled,  so  that  no- 
thing may  be  wasted.  Shank  bones,  trimmings  from  chops,  any 
thing  of  this  sort  may  be  thrown  in,  simmered  all  day,  then  pour- 
ed into  a  jar,  and  the  fat  removed  the  next  morning.  It  is  then 
frequently  a  jelly,  and  ready  to  convert  into  soup,  with  the  aid 
of  herbs  and  vegetables— or  kept  for  other  uses.  Stock  sours  very 
soon  after  the  vegetables  have  been  boiled  in  it,  so  it  is  best  not 
to  put  the  vegetables  in  till  needed  for  soup. 

If  your  stock  is  made  of  meat,  or  partly  of  meat,  cut  it  up  fine, 
and  always  put  it  on  in  cold  water,  if  the  water  is  hard,  put  a 
pinch  of  soda  in  it.  This  will  extract  all  the  pieces  of  the  bones 
and  meat.  If  on  the  contrary,  you  want  to  boil  meat,  and  retain 
its  pieces,  put  it  on  in  boiling  water.  [See  the  Principles  of 
Cooking.] 


SOUPS.  21 

STOCK  FROM  BONES. 

Take  the  bones  of  a  sirloin  of  beef,  break  them  into  half  a 
dozen  pieces  or  more,  pnt  them  in  the  stock  pot  with  a  gallon  of 
cold  water ;  and  let  tliem  simmer  gently  for  five  or  six  hours. 
Then  take  it  oif,  strain  it — it  ought  to  make  about  two  quarts — 
and  set  it  aside  for  several  hours,  or  over  night.  When  cold, 
skim  off  the  fat.  Then  return  it  to  the  pot  with  a  turnip^  and  a 
large  carrot  cut  up  in  two  or  three  pieces,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  and  a  head  of  celery  if  it 
can  be  obtained,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  celery-seed  tied  in  a  piece  of 
muslin.  Let  these  simmer  together  gently  for  two  hours,  adding 
boiling  water  to  keep  the  quantity  two  quarts,  and  putting  in 
also  while  boiling  a  little  salt  and  a  large  lump  of  sugar  ;  when 
done,  strain  it  off  into  ajar,  and  you  have  a  good  stock,  which 
can  be  kept  several  days,  in  a  cool  place  in  winter,  or  by  being 
boiled  over  each  day,  in  summer. 

STOCK  WITHOUT   MEAT. 

Put  into  a  stew  pan  ten  carrots,  as  many  turnips  and  onions 
cut  in  small  pieces,  two  lettuces,  two  sticks  of  celery,  a  handful 
of  chervil,  half  a  cabbage  and  a  parsnip  cut  in  slices ;  add  to 
these  three  ounces  of  butter  and  a  quart  of  water ;  stew  them  till 
the  liquid  is  nearly  dried  up,  and  then  fill  the  stew  pan  with 
water;  add  a  quart  of  peas,  green  or  dried,  according  to  the  sea- 
son, two  chives,  some  pepper  and  salt ;  stew  slowly  three  or  four 
hours  and  strain  through  a  colander  for  use. 

BRAN  STOCK. 

Put  a  largo  handful  of  bran  into  a  quart  of  water,  boil  and 
leave  to  simmer  till  the  quantity  is  reduced  to  half.  This  will  do 
excellently  tor  the  thickening  of  meat  soup.  It  will  make  very 
good  soup  of  itself,  if  onions,  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  few  vege- 
table«,  are  mixed  in  it.  It  will  also  be  good  sweetened  with 
molasses  or  honey. 

COW  HEEL  STOCK. 

A  cow  heel  in  two  quarts  of  water  will  make  first  rate  stock, 


22 


SOUPS. 


but  do  not  get  boiled  cow  heels.    The  others  take  more  boiling, 
but  make  much  richer  stock,  and  may  be  used  more  than  once. 

FOUR   QUARTS   OF   BROWN  STOCK. 

Heat  an  iron  pot  and  rub  the  bottom  with  garlic.  Put  in  ten 
pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  fresh  killed,  and  a  pint  of  water;  let  it 
stand  by  the  fire  for  an  hour,  then  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  lean  ham,  three  onions,  three  carrots,  a  small  head  of  celery, 
four  cloves,  six  allspice,  ten  peppercorns,  a  table-spoonful  of 
brown  sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a 
large  black  onion,  and  six  quarts  of  w^ater.  Simmer  and  skim 
frequently  for  six  hours.  Strain  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  when 
cold,  remove  the  fat;  a  fine  hair  sieve  dipped  in  cold  water  is 
good  to  strain  it  with. 

FOUR  QUARTS  OF  WHITE  STOCK. 

Put  into  an  iron  pot  a  knuckle  of  veal,  about  seven  pounds,  a 
cow  heel,  and  an  old  fowl ;  add  a  turnip,  two  onions,  a  lettuce,  a 
blade  of  mace,  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  six  quarts 
of  water.  Simmer  gently,  and  skim  frequently,  for  six  hours. 
Strain  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  when  cold,  take  off  the  fat. 

COMMON  SOUP. 

Take  the  neck,  shanks,  scraps  of  fresh  meat,  or  old  fowls.  Let 
your  meat,  beef,  mutton,  fowls,  or  game,  be  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  the  bones  cracked  up  well.  Put  the  pieces  into  a  pot  and 
cover  them  with  as  much  water  as  will  stew  them  into  rags ;  stew 
them  very  slowly,  then  pour  in  some  boiling  water,  and  keep  the 
soup  boiling  to  within  a  few  minutes  of  serving.  Skim  it  entirely 
free  from  grease.  Take  out  whatever  you  wish  to  set  away  for 
the  next  day  before  you  pnt  in  the  vegetables.  Now  cut  up  vege- 
tables (previously  cooked  by  themselves),  in  it  slice  potatoes, 
okra,  turnips,  carrots,  any  vegetables  you  like,  or  rice  or  barley. 
If  there  is  any  vegetable, — for  instance,  onions,  cabbages,  or  to- 
matoes,— which  you  wish  to  give  distinctive  character  to  your 
soup,  use  that  vegetable  entirely,  in  connection  with  potatoes 
and  okra,  which  give  consistency  without  any  very  discernible 


SOUPS. 


23 


taste.  If  your  soup  lacks  richness,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  drawn 
butter  will  help  ;  if  consistency,  some  gelatine  may  be  dissolved 
in  it.  A  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs  is  indispensable.  A  rich  soup  is 
sometimes  flavored  with,  wine  or  catsup.  It  is  as  well  to  offer 
these  articles  to  each  person,  as  also  the  castor  at  the  table.  Ver- 
micelli or  macaroni  may  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  okra. 

SOUP  OR  STOCK  FROM  ONE   POUND  OF  BEEF. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  free  from  fafc,  mince  it  finely  and 
add  to  it  its  own  weight  of  cold  water  ;  heat  it  very  slowly 
to  boiling,  two  or  three  hours  is  not  too  much,  let  it  boil  briskly 
a  minute  or  two,  strain  it  through  a  towel.  Mix  the  liquid  with 
salt  and  other  seasoning,  tinge  it  darker  with  roast  onions  or 
burnt  sugar.  Dr.  Liebig  says  this  forms  the  best  soup  that  can 
be  prepared  from  one  pound  of  flesh. 

FI6H  SOUPS. 

A  variety  of  good  soups  can  be  made  of  fish  by  stewing  them 
down  in  the  same  manner  as  meat,  with  the  same  addition  of  vege- 
tables and  herbs.  Jf  the  skin  is  coarse,  strip  it  off  before  using 
the  fish,  and  when  stewing  skim  off  the  oily  particles. 

WINTER  SOUP. 

Take  a  shin  of  beef,  boil  it  in  two  gallons  of  water  down  to  one 
gallon  ;  pour  it  out  after  removing  the  bones,  and  let  it  cool. 
This  will  be  one  mass  of  jelly,  from  which  as  much  can  be  taken 
daily  as  may  be  needed  iu  the  quantity  of  soup  desired.  Stew  the 
vegetables  or  cook  the  rice,  split  peas,  beans,  and  add  all  together 
with  as  much  water  as  may  be  necessary,  and  let  it  boil  well. 

SORREL  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Wash  a  handful  of  sorrel,  add  some  chervil,  lettuce,  and  leeks; 
chop  all  very  fine,  and  stew  with  salt  and  butter ;  when  the  vege- 
tables are  done  enough,  add  some  stock  without  meat  or  water. 
Let  it  stew  again,  and  before  you  serve,  add  the  yolks  of  three  or 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  with  some  cream  or  good  milk,  taking  care 
it  does  not  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added.  Season  to  taste.  Sorrel 
is  prepared  for  winter  in  jars,  first  chopped,  then  pounded  and 
seasoned.    It  mu^t  b©  cloaely  co^er^d. 


24 


SOUPS. 


RABBIT  SOUP. 


Cut  up  your  rabbit  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot,  with  a  ham  bone, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bay  leaf,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves, 
soi\ie  whole  pepper,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  meat  is  tender,  then 
cut  off  the  meat  into  neat  squares,  return  the  bones  and  trimmings 
into  the  soup,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  meat  is  in  rags;  then 
strain  it,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  mixed  on  the  fire, 
without  being  browned;  add  a  pint  of  highly  seasoned  stock,  or 
if  desired  a  pint  of  red  wine — port  is  best — season  to  taste  and  let 
all  simmer  together  with  the  meat  that  vras  cut  off.    Serve  hot. 

SPRING  SOUP. 

Cut  an  equal  quantity  of  carrots,  turnips,  onions  and  leeks; 
stew  them  in  some  good  stock ;  then  add  some  French  beans, 
j)eafl,  bean  cucumbers,  asparagus  tops,  lettuces,  sorrel  and  chervil ; 
add  a  little  bit  of  white  sugar ;  let  these  reduce  to  nearly  a  glaze; 
then  add  them  to  some  stock  thickened  with  green  peas  rubbed 
through  a  tammy.  The  soup  might  be  thickened,  to  vary  it,  with 
asparagus  rubbed  through  a  tammy  ;  in  this  case  all  the  vegetables 
should  be  strained  off,  and  some  asparagus  tops  served  only  in 
the  soup. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl 
barley  in  a  quart  of  water  very  slowly,  until  it  becomes  of  the 
consistency  of  cream.  Pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve  and  salt  it  to 
taste.  Flavor  it  with  celery-seed,  if  the  taste  be  liked,  or  use 
fresh  celery,  if  in  season, — a  very  small  quantity  would  suffice. 
It  should  simmer  very  slowly.     This  soup  is  very  nourishing. 

GUMBO. 

Take  a  large  fowl,  cut  in  pieces,  beat  up  and  fry  very  brown, 
and  make  with  it  a  highly  seasoned  and  rich  gravy.  Cut  into  it  a 
half  gallon  of  tender  green  okra,  as  many  ripe  tomatoes,  and 
pour  on  three  pints  of  boiling  water ;  boil  until  the  vegetables  are 
of  the  softest  consistency,  and  chicken  in  rags.  Stir  in  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  young  sassafras  leaves,  dried  and  reduced  to  a 


SOUPS.  25 

powder.  Strain  into  your  dish  hot.  When  well  made  this  will 
almost  rope  like  candy.  Pepper,  onions,  and  sweet  herbs  are 
used  profusely  in  this  soup,  with  salt  to  savor  it. 

WHITE  SOUP. 

Put  four  or  five  turnips,  four  leeks,  two  heads  of  celery,  wash- 
ed and  sliced,  into  the  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a 
knuckle  of  ham  ;  add  a  quart  of  stock,  and  let  all  stew  together  till 
t*jnder.  When  nearly  done,  put  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  some  small 
pieces  of  bread ;  boil  up  two  or  three  times,  strain  it  and  serve  it 
hot. 

MOCK   TURTLE    SOUP. 

Parboil  a  calf 's  head  divided,  and  cut  all  the  meat  in  small  pieces ; 
then  break  the  bones  and  boil  them  in  some  beef  broth ;  fry  some 
shalots  in  butter,  add  flour  to  thicken,  and  stir  it  in ;  skim  it  care- 
fully while  it  boils  up,  and  add  a  pint  of  white  wine ;  let  it  simmer 
till  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender,  then  put  in  some  chives,  parsley, 
basil,  salt,  cayenne,  soy,  and  mushroom  catsup  to  your  taste,  ana 
boil  it  in  for  ten  minutes  ;  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  into  your 
tureen,  pour  your  soup  on  it,  and  serve  with  force  meat  balls. 

sheep's-head  soup. 

Cut  the  liver  and  lights  into  pieces,  and  stew  them  in  four  quarts 
of  water,  with  some  onions,  carrots,  and  turnips,  half  pound  of 
pearl  barley,  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  and  a  little  marjoram,  parsley 
and  thyme.  Stew  all  these  until  nearly  done  enough,  then  put  in 
the  head  and  boil  it  until  quite  tender,  then  it  should  be  taken 
out  and  everything  strained  from  the  liqupr.  Let  this  stand  till 
cool,  then  take  off  the  fat,  and  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour 
in  the  same  way  as  mock  turtle.  A  glass  of  wine  may  be  put  into 
the  tureen  if  desired,  before  pouring  in  the  soup. 

CONCORD   SOUP. 

Three  pounds  of  neck  of  beef,  one  cowheel,  one  pennyworth  of 
carrots  and  turnips,  part  of  ahead  of  celery,  one  bunch  of  tied  up 
sweet  herbs,  four  onions  browned,  one   pint   of  peas,  ail  put  to- 
2 


26  HOUSEKEEPING. 

getlior  into  tliree  quarts  of  water.     After  boiling  for  some  hours, 
to  be  well  strained  before  serving  up 

calf's  head  soup  browned. 

Strain  the  liquor  the  head  was  boiled  in,  and  set  it  away  unt?i 
next  day ;  take  off  all  the  fat ;  fry  an  onion  in  a  little  butter  in 
the  )0up  pot,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  stir  until  brown ;  cut  up  two 
carrots  two  onions,  two  turnips,  and  whatever  is  left  of  the  head, 
in  inch  pieces,  put  them  in  with  the  stock,  a  dozen  cloves,  peppei 
and  salt ;  boil  it  about  two  hours ;  braid  up  a  little  flour  and  but- 
ter, stir  it  into  the  soup,  and  boil  about  ten  minutes ;  add,  if  de- 
sired, half  a  tumbler  of  red  wine  ;  serve  hot. 

BROWN   GRAVY   SOUP. 

Cut  a  few  onions  in  pieces,  fry  them  in  dripping  brown ;  cut 
three  pounds  of  beef  in  pieces,  brown  this  also,  stirring  and  turn- 
ing both  meat  and  onions  as  they  fry,  then  put  them  in  the  sauce- 
pan with  a  carrot,  a  turnip  cut  small,  and  a  little  celery  if  you 
have  it,  or  two  seeds  of  celery,  add  three  quarts  of  water  to  this, 
stir  all  together  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  very  slowly 
and  skim  off  what  rises  ;  in  three  or  four  hours  the  soup  will  be 
clear.  When  served,  add  a  little  vermicelli,  which  should  have 
previously  been  boiled  in  water ;  the  liquor  j^hould  be  carefully 
poured  off  through  a  sieve. 

CHICKEN   SOUP. 

Take  two  large  old  fat  chickens  ;  chop  up  thep^Vces  and  mash  the 
bones.  Put  in  a  few  slices  of  boiled  ham  if  not  too  strong.  Stew 
slowly  until  in  rags.  Then  pour  on  three  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  it  down  to  half  a  gallon.  Chop  up  the  chicls^ins'  hearts, 
the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  stir,  with  a  tea  ohd  half  full 
of  grated  bread  crumbs,  into  a  cup  of  rich  sweet  cream  ;  strain  the 
soup,  return  it  to  the  kettle  with  a  bouquet  of  herbs,  boil  Ave  min- 
utes, stir  in  the  cream,  etc.,  and  take  it  off  quickly.  Any  ?puo  oi 
fowl  or  game  may  be  made  in  the  same  way.  Instead  oi  ihe 
thickening  prepared  as  above,  you  may  boil  in  it  some  rice,  or 
use  vermicelli,  or  macaroni,  previously  simmered  until  soft. 


SOUPS.  27 


OYSTER   SOUP. — 1. 

Take  a  shin  of  veal,  put  It  In  a  pot  with  three  quarts  of  water, 
and  a  liead  of  celery,  pepper,  and  salt ;  boil  it  three  hours ;  then 
strain  It  all  through  a  sieve ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  braided 
in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour;  stir  It  In  ai:d  give  it  one  boil;  have 
ready,  washed  out  of  the  liquor,  one  gallon  of  oysters ;  strain  the 
li(iu()r  Into  the  soup,  let  It  boil  up,  then  put  in  the  oysters  with  a 
spoonful  of  mushroon  sauce ;  give  it  one  boll  and  send  it  to  the 
table  very  hot. 

OYSTER  SOUP.  —  2. 

Slice  some  onions,  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  then  put  them  on  the  fire  to  stew  in  some  stock, 
as  much  as  required  for  your  soup, — about  half  an  hour  is  suf- 
ficient; before  you  serve,  add  two  or  three  dozen  of  oysters,  with 
their  liquor  strained.  Thicken  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and 
season  It  with  white  pepper,  mace,  and  salt ;  It  must  not  boil 
after  the  eggs  are  put  in,  but  thicken  like  custard.  Any  kind  of 
good  broth  or  stock  makes  the  foundation.  Some  add  to  this  be- 
fore the  eggs  are  put  in,  a  glass  of  wlilte  wine. 

OYSTER  SOUP.— 3. 

Mix  one  pint  of  water  with  whatever  liquor  you  can  drain  from 
two  quarts  of  fresh  oysters.  When  this  liquor  comes  to  a  full 
boil,  put  the  oysters  in,  and  boil  until  nearly  done ;  then  pour  in 
a  quart  of  fresh  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  blade  of 
mace.  If  you  prefer  the  soup  a  little  thick,  powder  a  half  dozen 
crackers  fine,  and  sift  them  into  it. 

OYSTER  MOUTH  SOUP. 

First  make  a  rich  mutton  broth,  pour  It  on  the  oysters.  Add 
a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  llour,  let  It  simmer  gently  for  about 
quarter  of  an  hour,  then  serve  it  in  a  dish  with  crackers  in  the  bo<« 
tom, 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Afler  cutting  the  greenest  part  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces 


28  S0UP8. 

about  an  Inch  or  two  long,  blanch  them  in  boiling  water  until 
quite  done ;  add  some  good  stock  to  it  and  strain  it  Boil  the 
pieces  separately,  add  them  to  the  soup  and  serve  toasted  bread 
with  it,  if  desired. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

Take  some  young  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  and  cabbage 
lettuces ;  cut  them  in  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  witli  a 
little  butter,  and  some  lean  ham  cut  in  pieces.  Cover  them  close- 
ly and  let  them  stew  for  a  short  time.  Fill  up  with  stock  sufficient 
for  the  soup  required,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  vegetables  are  quite 
soft,  adding  a  few  leaves  of  mint  and  the  crust  of  a  roll ;  pound 
all,  and  having  boiled  a  quart  of  peas,  as  green  as  you  can,  strain 
them  off  and  pound  them  also ;  mix  them  with  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients and  pass  through  a  sieve.  Heat  it,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sugar;  add  a  few  young  boiled  peas,  and  use  the 
spinach  to  restore  it. 

PEA  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Boil  a  pint  of  split  peas  in  two  quarts  of  water  for  four  or  five 
hours,  or  until  quite  tender.  Then  add  two  turnips,  two  carrots,  a 
stick  of  celery,  and  some  potatoes  all  cut  in  pieces.  When  tender, 
pulp  it  through  a  sieve.  Cut  a  large  onion  in  slices  and  fry  it  in 
butter  and  flour,  to  thicken  the  soup.  Season  to  taste.  If  desired, 
a  ham  bone  or  a  piece  of  beef  can  be  stewed  with  the  peas,  to  be 
taken  out  when  the  soup  is  pulped  through  the  sieve.  Serve  with 
the  soup  pieces  of  bread  fried  crisp  in  butter. 

ENGLISH  PEA  SOUP. 

Take  a  half  of  a  shin  of  beef,  some  beef  and  ham  bones,  and, 
if  possible,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  boil  all  together,  in  a  gal- 
lon of  water,  with  a  little  salt.  Clear  it  of  the  scum,  as  it  rises, 
and  have  ready  a  quart  of  split  peas,  which  have  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  over  night.  Boil  the  meat  very  slowly,  for  two  hours, 
then  put  in  the  peas,  which  will  have  absorbed  the  water,  with  a 
root  of  celery,  and  two  oi  three  carrots  scraped,  and  cut  in  pieces. 
Sift  in,  also,  a  littk  dried  mint,  and  season  to  taste.  Cook  slow- 
ly, stirring  often  with  a  wooden  spoon,  for  four  hours. 


SOUPS.  29 


AUTICHOKE  SOUP. 

Have  a  knuckle  of  veal  (weighing  about  five  pounds)  for  din 
ner.  When  all  have  dined,  return  the  bones  into  the  stewpan, 
with  the  li(iuor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  a  nice,  white  onion,  and 
two  turnips.  Boil  some  Jerusalem  artichokes  in  milk,  (skim  milk 
will  do,)  then  beat  up  all  with  the  liquor,  which,  of  course,  must 
be  first  strained,  then  thickened  with  a  small  quantity  of  flour  rub- 
bed smooth  in  a  tea  cup,  with  a  little  milk.  Use  white  pepper  for 
the  seasoning,  to  keep  the  color  pure. 

PARSNIP  SOUP. 

Cut  in  pieces  half  a  dozen  parsnips,  a  head  of  celery,  and  two 
onions ;  stew  them  in  two  quarts  of  stock  until  they  are  tender, 
take  them  out  and  pulp  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  pour  the 
pulp  back  into  the  soup,  flavor  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  before 
serving  pour  in  a  little  milk. 

CARROT  SOUP. 

Take  half  a  gallon  of  stock  ;  add  three  turnips,  six  carrots,  three 
or  four  onions,  and  let  them  stew  till  tender.  Take  out  the  vege- 
tables, strain  the  soup ;  take  off  the  red  part  of  the  carrots,  and 
rub  it  through  a  colander,  make  the  soup  about  as  th'ck  as  cream, 
with  the  pulped  carrot.     Heat  it  well  through  and  serve. 

COLAXDERED  SOUP. 

Boil  in  water  some  peas  with  salt,  pepper,  and  any  vegf^tables. 
When  quite  soft  mash  the  whole  and  bray  through  a  sieve  or  col- 
ander. Instead  of  split  peas  you  may  use  carrots,  turnips,  aspar- 
agus, or  green  peas,  etc.,  as  the  staple.  Put  your  colandered  veg- 
etables back  into  the  pot,  and  if  you  have  any  stock,  thin  the  soup 
with  it;  if  you  have  no  stock,  thin  with  water,  or  milk  and  water. 
Boil  up,  and  your  dish  is  fit  for  table. 

BARLEY  SOUP. 

In  four  quarts  of  water  put  two  pounds  of  trimmings  or  odd 
pieces  of  meat,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl  barley,  four  sliced 
onions,  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  parsley,  if  you  have  it.  Sim- 
mer for  three  hours  or  more. 


30  SOUPS. 


FRENCH    SOUP. 

P\!t  first  a  gallon  of  water  to  a  sheep's  head  nicely  cleaned,  ther 
reduce  it  to  half  the  quantity,  and  add  a  teacupful  of  pearl  bar- 
ley, half  a  dozen  large  onions,  a  turnip,  a  carrot,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  and  a  little  mushroom  or  walnut  cat- 
sup. Strain  all  off,  cut  part  of  the  head  in  pieces  and  serve  it  in 
the  soup,  with  a  small  quantity  of  white  wine. 

PUMPKIN   SOUP. 

Take  three  pounds  of  ripe  pumpkin,  peel  and  remove  the  seeds, 
cut  into  pieces  of  moderate  size,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  over  the 
fire  with  a  pint  of  water;  let  it  boil  slowly  till  soft,  strain  off  all 
the  water,  and  pass  the  pumpkin  through  a  colander ;  return  the 
pulp  into  the  stew  pan  adding  nearly  three  pints  of  milk,  one  ounce 
or  more  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  lumps  of 
loaf  sugar;  boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  often.  Pour  it  boiling 
into  the  dish,  on  very  thin  slices  of  bread.  The  sugar  improves 
the  flavor,  but  may  be  omitted.  It  can  be  seasoned  with  a  blade 
of  mace  or  a  little  nutmeg. 

GOURD   SOUP. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  the  gourd  into  large  slices,  put  it  Into  a  pan 
with  three  ounces  of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  two  of  moist 
sugar,  a  little  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  water ;  set  on  the  fire  and 
stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  When  reduced  to  a  pulp,  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  and  moisten  with  three  pints  of 
new  milk ;  boil  with  care  ten  minutes  longer,  and  serve  with  toast 
in  slices.  Vegetable  marrow  is  equally  good,  made  into  soup  ac- 
cording to  this  receipt. 

ONION   SOUP  WITH   MILK. 

Slice  some  onions  into  a  stew  pan,  with  a  piece  of  dripping, 
or  lard,  and  a  little  flour.  When  brown  add  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk;  pepper,  salt,  and  any  cold  cooked  vegetables  at  hand.  Boll 
up  once  or  twice,  and  you  have  a  delicious  food,  without  meat  or 
stock. 


sours.  31 


ONION   SOUP  WITH   AViTER. 

Slice  some  onions  into  a  stewpan,  with  any  grease  at  hand, 
and  keep  them  moving  about  till  half  brown,  then  sift  in  a  little 
flour  or  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  brown  well.  Now  add  a  quart  of 
boiling  hot  water,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  some  cold  cooked  vege- 
tables. This  would  be  greatly  improved  if  you  could  contrive  to 
fry  in  grease  a  few  bits  of  bread  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  add 
tliem  to  the  soup  when  brown. 

TOMATO    SOUP. 

Boil  a  shin  of  veal  three  hours,  or  take  some  soup  stock.  Cut 
up  two  onions,  two  carrots,  and  two  turnips,  and  put  with  it ;  also 
pepper,  salt  and  one  dozen  tomatoes.  Boil  this  two  hours,  and 
strain  it  through  a  sieve.  Toast  some  pieces  of  bread  a  light 
brown ;  cut  them  in  dice  form,  and  put  them  into  the  dish.  The 
soup  should  be  turned  on  to  the  toast  just  before  it  is  taken  to  the 
table,  as  soaking  long  spoils  it. 

BREAD    SOUP. 

Set  the  stock  on  the  fire  to  boil ;  let  it  simmer  three  or  four 
hours.  Place  in  a  bowl  bits  of  bread,  no  matter  how  hard  and 
stale.  Pour  over  them  enough  hot  broth  to  soak  them  well ;  mash 
fine,  and  put  the  whole  into  the  stock.  Let  it  continue  to  simmer 
a  few  minutes  more  after  the  bread  mash  has  been  added. 

VERMICELLI     SOUP. 

Put  a  shin  of  ¥eal,  one  onion,  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  and  a 
little  salt,  into  four  quarts  of  water.  Boil  this  three  hours  ;  add 
two  cups  of  vermicelli,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half  longer.  Be- 
fore serving  take  out  the  bone  and  vegetable. 

JENNY  LINDAS   SOUP. 

The  following  soup  is  stated  by  Miss  Bremer,  to  be  the  soup 
constantly  served  to  Mademoiselle  Jenny  Lind,  as  prepared  by 
her  own  cook.  The  sago  and  eggs  were  found  by  her  soothing  to 
the  chest,  and  beneficial  to  the  voice.  Wash  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  best  pearl  sago  thoroughly,  then  stew  it  quite  tender  and  very 


32  sours. 

thick  in  water  or  thick  broth ;  (It  will  require  nearly  or  quite  a 
quart  of  liquid,  which  should  be  poured  to  it  cold  and  heattd  slow- 
ly ;  )  then  mix  gradually  with  it  a  pint  of  good  boiling  cream  or 
milk,  and  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  eggs,  and  mingle  the  whole  care- 
fully with  two  quarts  of  strong  veal  or  beef  stock,  which  should 
always  be  kept  ready  boiling.     Serve  immediately. 

GERMAN  PANCAKE  SOUP. 

Make  a  batter  with  a  pound  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  half  a  pint  of 
milk  ;  stir  well,  and  add  two  eggs  beaten  ;  it  should  be  of  the  con- 
sistency of  cream.  Make  this  into  pancakes,  fried  very  pale  yel- 
low. As  each  one  is  fried,  lay  it  on  a  board  and  double  over 
once.  Roll  each  slightly,  and  cut  into  strips  half  an  inch  wide» 
and  put  them  into  the  soup  tureen  and  pour  good  stock,  well  sea- 
soned and  strained,  over  them.     Serve  hot. 

SOUP   JARDINIERE. 

Put  a  bouquet  of  finely  cut  vegetables,  consisting  of  celery,  a 
carrot,  an  onion,  tomatoes, — two  if  fresh,  two  table -spoonfuls  if 
canned, — a  leek,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley,  in  a  stew  pan,  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  cover  down  for  nearly  an  hour; 
when  cooked  soft  in  the  butter  add  a  quart  or  more  of  broth,  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  cold  jelly  gravy,  and  leave  the  whole  to 
simmer  together  an  hour  longer,  or  until  dinner  time.  During  the 
process  of  coming  to  a  boil,  the  butter  or  grease  rising  to  the  top 
should  be  skimmed  off  and  preserved,  to  be  clarified  for  further 
use. 

AN     INEXPENSIVE    SOUP. 

Take  three  pounds  of  the  neck  of  beef,  one  cow  heel,  carrots  and 
turnips,  half  a  head  of  celery,  one  bunch  of  tied  up  sweet  herbs, 
four  onions  browned,  one  pint  of  peas;  put  together  into  three 
quarts  of  water  and,  after  boiling  some  hours,  strain  through  a 
sieve.  The  best  part  of  the  cow  heel  may  be  cut  in  square  pieties 
and  served  up  in  the  soup. 

BAKED  SOUP. 

When  baking  is  more  convenient,  in  four  quarts  of  water  put 


SOUPS.  33 

one  pound  of  trimmings  or  odd  pieces  of  meat,  two  onions,  and 
two  sliced  carrots,  two  ounces  of  rice  or  bits  of  bread,  one  pint 
of  split  peas,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  the  whole  into  a  close  jar,  and 
bake  slowly  for  four  hours.  This  will  make  a  good,  wholesome 
food  for  a  large  family. 

HOTCII  POTCH. 

Put  a  pint  of  peas  into  a  quart  of  water;  boil  them  until  they 
are  so  tender  as  easily  to  be  pulped  through  a  sieve.  Take  of  the 
leanest  end  of  a  loin  of  mutton  three  pounds,  cut  it  into  chops, 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  gallon  of  water,  four  carrots,  four 
turnips,  cut  In  small  pieces ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
until  all  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender ;  put  in  the  pulped  peas  a 
head  of  celery  and  a  sliced  onion.     Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve. 

SCOTCH  MUTTON  BROTH. 

Take  the  scrag  end  of  a  large  sized  neck  of  mutton,  reserving 
the  best  half  for  cutlets,  put  It  Into  a  stewpan  and  boil  it  with  three 
quarts  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  Scotch  barley,  three  leeks,  three 
onions,  a  httle  parsley  and  thyme.  Skim  It,  and  after  It  has  boiled 
up,  let  It  stand  on  the  top  of  the  stove  and  simmer  for  two  hours, 
then  skim  again,  and  if  it  Is  too  thick  with  barley  add  half  a  pint 
'of  boiling  water,  three  or  four  turnips,  a  head  of  celery,  and  two 
carrots  cut  in  pieces ;  after  which,  let  it  simmer  slowly  an  hour  and 
a  half  more ;  the  barley  should  be  almost  wholly  dissolved.  Tne 
meat  may  be  cut  In  pieces  and  served  with  the  broth  or  served  sep- 
arately. 

BKOTH  FOR  AN  INVALID. 

Cut  the  chicken,  veal,  mutton  or  beef,  up  into  pieces,  and  put 
into  a  jar  with  a  cover ;  fill  with  water,  adding  a  little  salt ;  close 
down  tight,  and  let  It  simmer  all  day  on  the  stove  or  range  ;  strain, 
and  season  to  taste.  This  method  extracts  all  the  juices  and 
Glrength  of  the  meat   and  Is  Infinltelj^  better  than  boiling. 


MEATS. 


TO   BOIL  BEEF. 


If  the  beef  Is  very  salt  put  it  in  cold  water ;  if  it  is  only  slightly 
corned  put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  let  it  cook  very  slowly.  This 
will  render  it  quite  as  tender  as  if  put  into  cold  water,  and  at  tbe 
same  time  all  the  juices  of  the  meat  will  be  retained.  Boil  until 
tender,  but  not  until  ragged,  so  that  the  meat  will  cut  clean  and 
clear,  when  cold. 

Never  buy  poor,  cheap  pieces  of  corned  beef,  they  are  full  of 
bone  and  gristle  ;  there  is  no  satisfaction  in  eating  from  them,  and 
they  prove  the  most  costly  in  the  end. 

Fresh  beef  should  never  be  boiled  plain,  unless  it  is  boiled  down 
for  soup ;  it  may  be  stewed,  or  cooked  alamode,  or  stuffed  and 
baked,  provided  the  piece  is  not  suitable  for  roasting. 

STEWED    BEEF. 

Take  six  pounds  of  round  of  beef,  place  it  in  a  deep  kettle, 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  broth,  a  gill  of  good  vin- 
egar, a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  few  cloves,  a  sprig  of  sweet  marjoram, 
and  some  salt,  and  pepper.  Let  it  lay  in  this  over  night,  turning  it 
several  times,  if  it  Is  warm  weather ;  it  is  best  to  give  the  mixture 
a  boil  up,  putting  the  meat  to  it  cold.  The  next  day  simmer  four 
or  five  hours,  adding  two  onions  chopped  small ;  take  up  the  meat, 
add  a  tea  spoonful  of  butter  braided  in  flour  to  the  strained  liquor, 
with  a  dash  of  mushroom  catsup.  Pour  it  over  the  meat,  and 
serve.  If  more  liquid  is  required  while  stewing,  put  in  broth  or 
gravy,  if  you  have  it, — if  not,  water. 

CURED    BRISKET    OF    BEEF   FOR   CIIRISTMA3. 

At  night  rub  fourteen  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef,  with  one  ounce 
of  saltpetre  poimdedvery  fine;  the  next  morning  mix  together 


MEATS.  35 

half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  four  handfuls  of  common  salt,  and  rub 
the  beef  well  over  with  it.  Let  it  remain  in  the  pickle  two  weeks, 
turning  and  rubbing  it  every  day ;  then  take  it  out,  and  put  it  into 
an  earthen  pan,  with  some  suet  chopped  fine  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pan,  and  the  same  on  the  top  of  the  beef,  with  a  little  watei 
to  keep  the  pan  from  burning.  Bake  it  slowly  for  six  hours 
Eaten  cold. 

CURED  BEEF,  TO  EAT  COLD. 

Put  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  one  pound  of  bay 
salt,  nearly  an  ounce  of  allspice,  a  tea-spoonful  or  less  of  cloves,  a 
small  piece  of  saltpetre,  and  three  cents  worth  of  cochineal,  into  four 
quarts  of  water ;  let  these  all  boil  slowly  together  fully  twenty  min- 
utes ;  then  take  from  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  till  quite  cool.  Take 
a  round  of  beef,  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds,  and  pour  this 
pickle  over  it,  turning  it  once  or  twice  a  day,  continuing  this  for 
two  or  three  weeks.  At  the  end  of  this  time  it  will  be  ready  for 
use. 

BOILED     BEEF    STEAKS. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  beat  them ;  cut  them  half  an  inch  thick 
and  place  them  on  the  gridiron.  The  fire  should  be  clear  and 
brisk,  the  gridiron  should  be  hot,  the  bars  rubbed  with  suet. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the  fire.  Turn  the  steaks  often,  keeping 
a  dish  close  to  the  fire,  in  which  to  drain  the  gravy  from  the  top 
of  the  steak  as  you  lift  it.  The  gridiron  is  best  set  in  a  slanting 
direction,  so  that  fat  will  not  fall  on  the  coals  and  make  a  smoke. 
If  there  is  a  smoke,  take  the  steak  off  for  a  moment.  Over  a  brisk 
fire  of  coals  steaks  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes.  Then  lay  them 
on  a  hot  plate  with  a  small  slice  of  butter  on  each  piece,  pouring 
over  them  the  gravy,  and  sprinkling  on  a  very  little  salt. 

BEEF   ALAMODE. 

Lard  a  round  of  beef  with  slices  of  fat  bacon  dipped  In  vinegar ; 
roll  it  up  with  chopped  seasoning,  cloves,  sage,  parsley,  thyme, 
pepper  and  green  onions ;  bind  it  close  and  put  it  in  a  sauce  pan. 
Tnrn  it  when  half  done,  and  let  it  stand  for  twelve  hours  on  a 
fitove.     It  can  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 


36  MEATS. 


BRAISED   BEEF. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  rump,  and  cover  down  close  in  a  pan, 
with  enough  butter  or  clarified  dripping  to  prevent  burning  or 
sticking  to  the  pan ;  let  it  cook  slowly  for  an  hour,  then  pour  off 
the  grease  and  put  in  a  little  broth,  half  a  cup  of  rich  gravy,  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar,  and  ahttle  calf's-foot  jelly,  if  convenient ;  cover 
down  closely  again  and  let  it  cook,  with  the  heat  all  about  it,  for 
two  hours  longer,  basting  frequently ;  when  it  is  quite  tender, 
take  it  up,  and  mix  half  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cream, 
and  put  into  the  gravy,  which  season  to  taste,  and  then  pour  over 
the  meat,  that  is  to  say,  a  part  of  it,  for  an  economical  cook  will 
reserve  part  to  assist  in  the  preparation  of  next  day's  dinner. 

BRISKET    OF    BEEF    STUFFED. 

A  piece  weighing  eight  pounds  requires  about  five  or  six  hours 
to  boil.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  sweet 
herbs,  a  little  mace,  and  one  onion  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with 
an  egg.  Put  the  dressing  in  between  the  fat  and  the  lean  of  the 
beef  and  sew  it  up  tight ;  flour  the  cloth  ;  pin  the  beef  up  very 
tight  in  it;  boil  it  fivt  or  six  hours.  When  it  is  done  take  the 
cloth  off,  and  press  it  until  it  is  cold.  This  is  to  be  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  eaten  cold. 

MOCK  DUCK. 

Procure  a  steak  cut  from  the  rump  of  beef,  and  fill  it  with  a 
dressing  made  of  chopped  bread,  pork,  sage,  onions  and  sweet 
marjoram,  and  well  seasoned  ;  sew  it  up,  put  a  slice  or  two  of  pork, 
or  some  of  the  dressing,  on  the  top,  and  set  it  in  a  pan,  mto  which 
pour  a  pint  of  water ;  cover  down  tight,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  in 
the  oven  three  hours ;  then  take  off  the  lid,  brown  quickly.  And 
serve  hot. 

ox  CHEEK  STUFFED  AND  BAKED. 

Mash  and  soak  thoroughly  an  ox  cheek ;  put  it  into  plenty  of 
warm  water  and  boil  gently  an  hour,  throwing  in  a  large  tea  spoon- 
ful of  salt  and  skimming  occasionally.  Lift  it  out,  and  when  cool 
take  out  the  bones.     Put  in  a  good  roll  of  forcemeat ;  bind  up  the 


MEATS, 


S7 


cheek  securely,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  an  hour  or  an  hour 
and  a  half,  until  it  is  quite  tender  clear  through.  Drain  it  from 
fat,  unbind  it,  and  serve  it  with  a  good  brown  gravy,  or  any  sauce 
preferred,  or  with  melted  butter  in  a  tureen,  a  cut  lemon  and 
cayenne. 

SPICED   BEEF. 

This  can  be  madt  from  either  the  round,  brisket  or  rump  of 
beef,  but  ribs  are  the  most  tender  eating.  Procure  from  eight  to 
ten  pounds  of  the  ribs  of  beef;  those  which  have  a  good  amount 
of  fat  upon  them  are  the  best ;  remove  the  bone,  rub  the  meat  well 
with  one  ounce  of  saltpetre  pounded  very  finely,  and  three  hours 
after  this  has  been  applied,  rub  on  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar; 
let  the  meat  lay  in  this  for  two  days,  then  take  one  ounce  of  ground 
pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  mace,  a  few  cloves  well  pound- 
ed, and  a  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  all  these  ingredi- 
ents well,  and  rub  them  well  into  the  beef,  particularly  into  the 
holes,  adding  occasionally  a  little  salt.  Roll  up  the  meat  as  a 
round,  and  bind  it  with  a  strong  fillet.  Chop  some  suet  very 
finely,  cover  the  beef  with  it,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven,  from  five  to  six  hours.  While  baking,  it  may  be  placed 
either  upon  a  meat  tin,  or  in  an  earthen  jar  as  nearly  of  its  size 
as  possible.  In  both  cases  there  should  be  a  cup  full  of  gravy  or 
water  under  the  meat,  to  prevent  it  from  burning  ;  if  a  jar  is  used 
there  should  be  a  cover  to  it. 

FILLETS  OF  BEEF. 

Take  two  pounds  of  steak  from  a  round  of  beef,  cut  thin,  divide 
it  into  strips  about  three  inches  broad ;  beat  them  with  a  chopper 
till  flat  and  tender,  then  chop  finely  some  fresh  gathered  mush- 
rooms, and  add  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  fresh  butter  in  small  pieces. 
Lay  the  mushrooms  and  seasoning  half  over  the  strips  of  steak ; 
roll  them  up,  fasten  them  with  a  coarse  needle  and  thread,  (or  with 
very  tiny  skewers,)  and  lay  the  fillets  in  a  pie  dish  to  bake.  The 
baking  dish  should  be  covered  with  another  dish  of  the  same 
size,  to  prevent  the  steam  from  evaporating,  otherwise  the  outside 
of  the  meat  will  be  dry.  Thicken  the  gravy  which  is  in  the  baking 
dish  with  flour  and  butter,  and  add  mushroom  catsup  as  a  seasoning, 


38  "  MEATS. 

The  fillets  will  require  turning  whilst  baking.  But  a  less  trouble- 
some plan  of  cooking  a  steak  in  this  mode,  is  to  have  it  dressed  in 
one  piece.  The  steak  should  be  cut  thin  and  rolled  as  described, 
but  instead  of  mushrooms  add  a  fine  forcemeat  or  plain  veal 
stuffing. 

FILLETS    OF   BEEF   WITH   ANCHOVY. 

Soak  five  or  six  anchovies  in  water  for  about  two  hours,  split 
them  and  put  the  fillet  with  them,  mixed  with  some  bacon ;  boil 
it  on  a  slow  fire  with  a  small  quantity  of  broth,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two  cloves,  and  a  bunch  of  herbs.  When 
sufficiently  done,  strain  the  sauce,  add  to  it  a  piece  of  butter  roll- 
ed in  flour,  two  spoonsful  of  cream,  and  a  few  capers ;  mix  in  a 
little  yolk  of  egg,  and  pour  It  over  the  fillet. 

FILLETS  OF  BEEF  WITH  FORCEMEAT. 

Make  forcemeat  with  fowls^  livers,  grated  bacon,  a  little  butter, 
parsley,  shallots,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  spices.  Cut  a  fillet  of 
beef  in  two,  flatten  it  with  a  cleaver,  lard  it  through,  then  lay  the 
forcemeat  between  it,  and  also  about  a  pint  of  small  mushrooms 
which  have  been  previously  stewed  In  a  little  butter ;  tie  the  meat 
up  in  a  cloth,  boil  it  in  broth,  with  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs. 

HUNTERS    BEEF. 

Take  a  round  of  beef  weighing  fifteen  pounds,  and  let  it  hang 
two  or  three  days.  Reduce  to  a  very  fine  powder  two  ounces  of 
saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  the  same  of  nutmeg,  one  third  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  two 
handsful  of  common  salt.  Bone  the  beef,  and  rub  the  spices  well 
into  it,  and  do  so  every  day  for  two  or  three  weeks.  When  you 
wish  to  dress  the  meat,  wash  the  spices  off  the  outside  with  cold 
•water,  bind  it  up  tightly  with  tape,  and  place  it  in  a  pan  with  a 
tea-cupful  of  water  at  the  bottom  ;  cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with 
chopped  suet;  cover  the  pan  with  a  coarse  paste,  and  brown  pa- 
per over  that.  Let  it  bake  five  hours,  and  when  it  is  cold  remove 
the  paste  and  the  tape.  Some  persons  stuff  the  hole  left  by  taking 
out  the  bone,  with  chopped  parsley  and  sweet  herbs. 


MEATS  39 


HUNG   BEEF. 

Make  a  strong  brine  of  bay  salt,  saltpetre  and  pump  water. 
Place  in  It  a  piece  of  ribs  of  beef,  and  let  it  lie  for  nine  days. 
Then  hang  it  in  a  chimney  in  the  smoke  of  wood  or  sawdust 
When  it  is  nearly  dry,  wash  the  outside  with  bullock's  blood,  and 
when  this  is  dry,  boil  it  and  serve  it  with  vegetables. 

HAMBURGH    PICKLE    FOR    BEEF,    HAMS    AND    TONGUE. 

Take  two  gallons  of  water,  three  pounds  of  bay  salt,  or  If  that 
cannot  be  got,  five  pounds  of  common  salt,  two  pounds  of  coarse 
sugar,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  two  ounces  of  black  pepper 
bruised  and  tied  in  a  fold  of  muslin  ;  boil  all  together  twenty  min- 
utes, removing  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Pour  the  pickle  into  a  deep 
earthen  jar,  and  when  it  is  cold  lay  in  the  meat  so  that  every  part 
is  covered.  Turn  the  meat  occasionally.  A  middling  sized  round 
of  beef  will  be  ready  for  the  table  in  a  fortnight. 

MEAT    PIE    FOR    LUNCH. 

Place  a  thick  rump  steak  well  larded  and  rubbed  with  shallot  in 
the  bottom  of  a  saucepan,  cut  up  some  game  into  small  pieces 
without  bones,  and  lay  over  the  steak,  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  some  pieces  of  bacon  ;  stew  them  all  well,  and  add  chopped 
mushrooms  and  a  rich  gravy,  before  maknig  them  into  the  pie. 
The  pie  should  have  a  thick  ornamental  crust  round  the  sides  and 
on  the  bottom.  Let  the  top  erust  be  loose,  so  that  additional 
gravy  can  be  poured  in ;    and  bake  until  it  Is  a  light  brown. 

BEEF   BALLS. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  boiled  tender,  chop  it  very  finely  with  an 
onion,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  parsley,  bread  crumbs, 
lemon  peel,  and  grated  nutmeg ;  moisten  it  with  an  egg,  mix  wel 
together,  and  roll  it  into  balls.  Then  dip  them  in  flour  and  fry 
them  in  boiling  lard  or  fresh  dripping.  Serve  them  with  thickened 
brown  gravy,  oi  fried  bread  crumbs. 

BEEP   CROQUETTES. 

Mince  some  dressed  beef  very  fine,  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 


40  MEATS. 

stow  pan,  add  three  or  four  onions,  chopped  fine,  and  fried  a  palo 
brown ;  add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  moisten  with  a  little  good 
stock,  or  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
parsley  chopped  fine.  When  the  sauce  is  done  enough,  put  in  the 
minced  beef;  let  it  stew  a  short  time  till  the  sauce  is  dry,  then 
form  the  meat  into  either  balls  or  rolls  ;  dip  eaoh  into  the  beaten 
white  of  eggs ;  have  some  butter,  or  lard,  hot ;  put  each  ball 
very  gently  into  the  frying  pan,  shaking  a  little  flour  over  them, 
roll  them  about  gently  in  the  pan  to  brown  them  alike,  and  when 
a  good  color,  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  and  serve  on  dressed  parsley. 

HASHED    BEEF. 

Take  cold  roast  beef,  cut  In  slices,  and  remove  skin  and  gristle. 
Place  in  a  stewpan  a  small  piece  of  butter,  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  a  table-spoonful  of  flour ;  put  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  it  till  it 
browns,  but  be  careful  it  does  not  burn.  Then  stir  In  gradually 
half  a  pint  of  stock,  flavored  with  herbs,  with  a  little  salt,  and  let 
it  boil  up  thick.  Put  in  tAvo  table-spoonsful  of  hot  green  pickles 
chopped  small,  and  the  slices  of  beef.  Heat  them  through  and 
serve  with  sippets  of  toast. 

COLD    MINCED    BEEF. 

Having  removed  the  fat  and  skin,  mince  the  beef  nearly  to  a 
paste :  stew  gently — if  possible  over  night,  so  that  the  fat  may 
be  skimmed  off.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  with 
oat-meal ;  chop  a  half  handful  of  parsley  and  thyme  and  throw  in  ; 
boil  a  large  onion  nearly  tender,  chop  It  and  mix  it  in  ;  add  sufficent 
broth  or  skim-milk  and  water  to  cover  the  beef;  let  it  simmer  two 
hours ;  then  thicken  with  a  little  oatmeal,  and  add  a  dessert  spoon- 
ful of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup  ;  stir  well,  boil  a  minute  and  serve 
with  pieces  of  bread  toasted.  The  bones  from  which  th*^  meat  is 
cut  will  do  for  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  is  stewed,  if  broth  is 
used.  Even  then,  however,  a  tea-cupful  of  milk  may  be  added 
with  the  thickening. 

DRIED    BEEF   COOKED. 

After  being  thinly  sliced,  as  usual,  freshen  It  In  water;  stew  it  in 
a  little  water  until  tender;  then  beat  an  egg  with  a  little  flour,  put 


MEATS.  41 

a  lump  of  butter  to  the  beef,  stir  in  the   egg  and  flour,  and  serve 
on  toast  bread  with  the  gravy  over  it. 

KEEPING    BEEE. 

Cut  up  the  meat  in  pieces  as  large  as  you  wish,  and  pack  it  in 
a  barrel  or  cask.  Then  make  a  brine  as  follows  :  one  pound  ani 
a  half  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  one 
hundred  pounds  of  beef,  one  table-spoonful  of  ground  pepper  to 
one  hundred  pounds  of  beef.  Put  in  the  salt  and  saltpetre,  heat 
it  boiling  hot,  skim  it,  then  add  the  pepper.  Pour  it  on  the  beef 
boiling  hot  and  cover  closely. 

TOUGH   BEEF. 

Carbonate  of  soda  will  remedy  tough  beef.  Cut  the  steaks  the 
day  before  using  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick ;  rub  over 
them  a  small  quantity  of  soda;  wash  off  next  morning,  cut  it  into 
suitable  thickness,  and  cook.  The  same  process  will  answer  for 
fowls,  legs  of  mutton,  etc. 

A  LEG  OF  MUTTON  IN  FOUR  MEALS. 

For  the  first  meal,  cut  off  a  handsome  knuckle  and  boil  It ;  for  the 
second  meal,  take  as  many  cutlets  as  required  for  the  family  from 
the  joint ;  for  the  third  meal,  roast  the  remainder  of  the  joint.  The 
remains  of  both  the  boiled  and  roasted  meat,  may  then  be  hashed 
for  a  fourth  meal. 

BOILED   LEG   OF  MUTTON. 

Cut  off  the    shank  bone  and  trim  the  knuckle.     Boll  with  salt 

in  the  water,   skimming.     If  it  weighs  nine  or  ten  pounds  it  will 

need  to  cook  three  hours.     It  may  be  served  with  parsley  or  celery 

and  "butter,  or  caper  sauce,  or  pickled  kidney   beans  and  onion 

auce  ;  mashed  turnips,  spinach  and  potatoes  are  good  with  it. 

KOAST    LEG   OF   MUTTON. 

A  leg  of  mutton  weighing  ten  pounds  should  be  roasted  two 
hours.  When  half  done,  turn  the  fat  out  of  the  roaster;  then 
baste  the  meat  with  the  dripping.  Make  the  gravy  the  same  as  for 
roast  beef,  or  add  a  few  spoonsful  of  current  jelly  and  a  cup  of 


42  MEATS. 

red  wine.     Ten  minutes  more  should  be  allowed  for  every   extra 
pound  of  mutton. 

LEG   OF   MUTTON   WITH   OYSTERS. 

Parboil  flit  oysters  and  mix  with  them  some  parsley,  minced 
onions,  and  sweet  herbs,  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Cut  five  or  six  holes  in  the  fleshy  part  of  a  leg 
of  mutton,  and  put  in  the  mixture ;  dress  It  as  follows :  Tie  it 
up  in  a  cloth  and  let  it  boil  gently  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours, 
according  to  the  size. 

ROAST    SHOULDER   OF   LAMB. 

A  nice  way  to  cook  a  shoulder  of  lamb  Is  to  bone  it,  and  fill  the 
space  with  a  stuffing  made  of  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  salt 
pork,  cracker  crumbs,  some  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
raw  egg.  Braise  it  with  some  good  stock  gravy,  and  send  it  to 
table  surrounded  by  spinach,  garnished  with  slices  of  egg, 

ROAST    QUARTER    OF    LAMB.  . 

To  roast  a  quarter  of  lamb,  lard  it  slightly  with  salt  pork,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs  and  finely-chopped  parsley.  Make 
a  sauce  of ''ome  stock  gravy,  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  chopped 
mint,  a  little  yolk  of  egg,  and  mushroom  catsup ;  pour  over  the 
joint,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  oven  a  few  moments.  Serve  with 
green  peas,  with  which  a  little  bunch  of  mint  has  been  boiled 

ROAST  JOINT   OF    MUTTON. 

Koast  the  joint  of  a  leg  of  mutton  in  the  usual  way;  rub  on  a 
little  salt,  and  also  sprinkle  on  flour  as  the  fit  comes  out.  Have  it 
nicely  and  evenly  browned  on  every  side,  baste  it  well,  and  when 
ready,  to  take  out,  pour  off  the  dripping  and  have  ready  a  little 
boiling  water,  but  do  not  drown  the  real  juices  of  the  meat. 
Serve  with  currant  jelly  if  convenient. 

BROILED   MUTTON   CHOPS. 

Trim  them :  remove  what  fat  is  not  required  to  cook  with  them  , 
season  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  often  until  done.  Serva 
with  small  pieces  of  butter  on  them. 


MEATS.  43 


FRIED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

Trim  them,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  them  m  their  own 
fat  or  pork  fat,  turn  thttm  often.  Serve  them  hot.  Brown  a  little 
butter  and  flour,  add  a  little  water,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 

MUTTON   CHOPS   WITH    CUCUMBERS. 

L 

Slice  cucumbers  and  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,,  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  wet  with  vinegar.  Fry  the  chops  a  nice  brown,  lay  them 
in  a  stewpan,  and  put  the  cucumbers,  drained,  over  them  ;  add  some 
chopped  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  cover  them  with  weak  broth  and 
stew  them,  skimming  occasionally. 

SAVORY   MUTTON   CHOPS. 

Cut  up  the  chops  and  beat  them  with  the  edge  of  a  knife.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  a  few  eggs  and  dip  the  cutlets  in  them ;  season  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  bread  crumbs.  Roll  them  in  but- 
tered papers  and  boil  them.  Use  for  sauce  some  good  gravy,  a 
piece  of  butter,  crumbs  of  bread,  capers,  anchovies,  with  some 
nutmeg  and  a  little  vinegar.  As  soon  as  they  are  dressed,  tear  off 
the  papers,  and  set  them  on  the  dish  with  the  sauce. 

COLD   MUTTON   BROILED. 

Cut  in  thick  slices  cold  boiled  leg  of  mutton  ;  it  should  not  be 
cooked  too  much  or  it  will  fall  into  pieces  ;  put  on  it  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  then  broil  it.  Let  it  be  very  hot,  and  add  a  thick  sauce 
flavored  with  fresh  tomatoes,  or  tomato  sauce,  and  serve. 

MUTTON   PUDDING. 

Take  cold  boiled  mutton,  or  roast  mutton  if  that  is  on  hand,  cut 
it  into  small  slices,  and  slice  a  few  potatoes.  Dip  the  slices  of 
meat  into  a  mixture  of  salt,  pepper,  flour,  and  finely  chopped  onion 
butter  the  basin,  line  it  with  suet  crust,  fill  it  with  alternate  layei'S 
of  mutton  and  potatoes,  pour  in  a  tea-cupful  of  gravy,  or  stock, 
cover  with  crust  and  cook  it. 

FIRST   RATE   WESTERN   STEW. 

Part  of  a  breast  of  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  in  bits,  as  many  pota- 


44  MEATS. 

toes,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste :  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Stew  all  together  in  barely  sullicient  water 
to  cover  them,  for  two  hours,  gently.  Then  put  in  a  tea-cup  of 
tomato  catsup,  and  boil  up  again.     Serve  hot. 

MUTTON  CROQUETTES. 

Cut  the  meat  from  a  neck  of  mutton  mto  pieces  about  as  large 
as  your  finger,  lard  them  through  with  ham  bacon ;  let  them  sim- 
mer in  some  stock  with  sweet  herbs  ;  when  done,  take  the  pieces  of 
meat  out,  reduce  the  gravy  and  strain  it  over  them ;  cover  each 
piece  with  good  fowl  seasoning,  wrap  it  in  a  slice  of  bacon,  wash 
them  over  with  egg,  strew  them  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
them. 

HASHED  MUTTON. 

At  night  cut  cold  boiled  or  roast  mutton  into  slices,  remove  the 
solid  fat,  break  the  bones,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  large 
onion  sliced  thin  ;  pour  in  broth  or  stock  to  just  cover  over  it,  and 
let  it  simmer  until  at  boiling  heat,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  it 
into  an  earthen  dish  and  cover  it  for  the  night.  In  the  morning, 
or  sometime  before  dinner,  skim  off  the  fat,  return  it  to  the  pot 
with  seasoning  and  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  simmer,  but  not  boil,  a 
long  time.  As  the  meat  gets  dry,  pour  in  milk.  A  quarter  of  an 
hour  before  serving,  take  away  the  bones  and  skin,  add  a  dessert 
spoonful  or  more  of  w^alnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  thicken  smooth- 
ly with  flour,  oat  meal  or  Indian  meal,  wet  with  milk  and  liquor 
from  the  hash ;  boil  a  minute  longer,  add  more  seasoning  if  re- 
quired, and  serve  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

UNCOOKED    MUTTON    MINCED. 

Cut  oif  two  pounds  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  remove  the  fat,  and 
chop  it  up  finely,  with  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  tea-cupful  of  gravy, 
six  ounces  of  butter.  Chop  three  young  lettuces  ;  add  a  quart  of 
young  peas,  an  onion  chopped  small.  Stir  all  together  over  a 
gentle  fire  until  quite  hot,  then  place  the  saucepan  closely  cover- 
ed at  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  three  hours. 
Serve  in  a  hot  dish,  and  place  round  it  a  wall  of  well-cooked  rice. 


MEATS.  45 

HASHED  MUTTON   WITH   MUSHROOMS. 

Take  nice  slices  of  mutton,  without  skin  or  fat,  and  sprinkle 
each  piece  with  flour  on  both  sides.  Put  six  large  mushrooms, 
afler  having  been  trimmed  and  cut  in  four  pieces,  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  to  stew  ;  add  a  little  gravy,  souie  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  when  sufliciently  done,  put  in  the  meat;  let  it 
heat  through,  slowly,  stirring  it  the  while  that  it  may  not  burn, 
but  not  let  it  boil,  or  the  meat  will  be  hard.  As  soon  as  the  hash 
thickens  and  the  flour  is  all  heat  through  and  changed  color,  the 
hash  is  done.  Serve  immediately  with  sippets  of  neatly  cut,  thin 
toast,  of  fried  bread,  round  the  dish. 

MINCED   MUTTON. 

Prepare  a  sauce  by  taking  finely  chopped  onions,  parsley,  and 
sweet  herbs  ;  fry  in  butter,  and  add  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  mixed 
in  water  or  stock,  and  as  much  stock  as  required.  Mince  cold 
boiled  or  roast  mutton,  taking  only  the  good  parts,  place  it  in  the 
sauce  and  warm  it  through  without  boiling.  This  should  be 
served  with  poached  eggs  on  the  top. 

MINCED   MUTTON   WITH   CUCUMBERS. 

To  prepare  minced  mutton  and  cucumber,  the  mutton  should  be 
minced  as  before,  then  a  large  cucumber  should  be  pared,  the 
seeds  taken  out,  and  cut  up  in  small,  square  pieces  about  the  size 
of  a  nutmeg.  Stew  till  tender  in  savory  brovvn  sauce,  and  put  in 
the  minced  mutton  and  some  thickening,  if  necessary.  Mix  the 
mutton  and  cucumber  well  together,  let  it  heat  through,  and  serve 
it  piled  high  on  a  dish,  with  sippets  of  fried  bread  round  it. 

THE   EPICURE^S    HASH. 

Cut  in  slices  about  one  pound  of  cold  mutton ;  then  put  two 
sliced  onions  ink)  a  stew  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  fry 
brown ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  good  flavored  broth,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  Harvey  sauce,  the  same  spoon  three  times  full  of  tara- 
gon  vinegar,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  curry  paste,  a  small  lump  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  let  this  sauce  just  boil 
up  once  and  ther>  simmer  slowly  by  the  fire  for  half  an  hour ;  stir 


46  MEATS. 

it  oflen,  and  thicken  it  with  a  table  spoonful  of  flour,  mixed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water ;  or  you  can  use  corn  starch,  half  the  quantity 
will  do.  When  the  thickening  has  boiled  thoroughly,  and  the 
sauce  ready,  put  in  the  meat,  let  it  heat  through  but  not  boil.  Servo 
hot,  with  pieces  of  toast  round  the  dish. 

QUARTER   OF   LAMB   AS   A   SAVORY   DISH. 

Procure  a  hind  quarter  of  lamb,  and  cut  off  the  shank  from  it. 
Raise  the  thick  part  of  the  flesh  from  the  bone  with  a  knife.  Pre- 
pare some  forcemeat,  the  same  as  for  veal  or  any  other  white  meat, 
and  place  it  between  the  bone  and  flesh,  and  all  underneath  the 
kidney.  Roast  the  lamb  partially,  then  place  it  on  a  saucepan 
with  a  quart  of  mutton  gravy ;  cover  it  up  and  let  it  stew  gently. 
When  it  is  sufficiently  cooked,  take  it  up  and  lay  it  upon  a  hot 
dish.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  strain  it;  add  a  wine  glass 
full  of  sherry  or  Maderia  wine,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  walnut  catsup, 
two  of  browning,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  cayenne  pepper* 
and  half  a  pint  of  bearded  oysters.  Thicken  with  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour;  pour  the  gravy  hot  over  the  lamb,  and  serve  it  up. 

SHOULDER    OF   VEAL. 

Put  into  an  earthen  pan  a  glass  of  water,  two  or  three  spoonsful 
of  vinegar,  three  onions,  sliced  parsley,  chives,  two  shallots,  a  bay 
leaf,  a  bit  of  thyme,  two  cloves,  and  about  two  ounces  of  butter ; 
cover  the  pan  close,  and  put  a  paste  of  coarse  flour  and  water 
round  the  edges,  to  keep  In  the  steam;  let  it  bake  three  hours, 
strain  the  sauce  and  pour  over  the  meat,  after  seasoning  it  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Another  way  is  to  stuff  it  with  bread  crumbs, 
suet,  or  butter,  parsley,  a  little  thyme  and  lemon  peel,  pepper,  salt 
and  nutmeg ;  then  lard  it,  and  roast  until  brown,  serving  it  with 
rich  brown  gra\y. 

STEWED   LOIN   OF   VEAL. 

Take  part  of  a  loin  of  veal,  the  chump  end  will  do ;  put  it  into 
a  large,  thick,  well  tinned  iron  saucepan,  or  into  a  stewpan,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  and  shake  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  until  it  begins 
to  brown ;  flour  the  veal  well  all  over,  lay  it  into  the  saucepan, 
and  when  it  is  of  a  light  brown,  pour  in  gradually  veal  broth 


MEATS.  47 

gi*avy,  or  boiling  water,  to  nearly  half  its  Jepth  ;  add  a  little  salt, 
one  or  two  sliced  carrots,  a  small  onion  or, more,  and  a  bunch  of 
parsley  ;  stew  the  veal  very  gently  for  an  hour  or  more  ;  then  turii 
and  let  it  stew  another  hour  until  it  is  perfectly  done.  Dish  the 
joint;  skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  strain  it  over  the  meat, 
or  keep  the  joint  hot  while  it  is  rapidly  reduced  to  a  richer  consis- 
tency. 

Br^EAST   OF   VEAL   STUFFED. 

Cut  off  the  gristle,  raise  the  meat  off  the  bones,  then  lay  a  good 
forcemeat,  made  of  pounded  veal,  some  sausage  meat,  parsley,  and 
a  few  shallots  chopped  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg ;  then  roll  the  veal  tightly,  and  sew  it  with  the  twine ;  lay 
some  slices  of  fat  bacon  in  a  stewpan,  and  put  the  veal  roll  on  it ; 
add  some  stock,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs ;  let  it 
stew  three  hours ;  then  cut  out  the  twine,  strain  the  sauce  after 
skimming  it,  thicken  it  with  brown  flour;  let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
pour  it  over  the  veal ;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  each  cut  in 
four.  A  fillet  of  veal,  first  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  can  be  dressed 
in  the  same  manner,  but  it  must  first  be  roasted,  so  as  to  brown  it 
a  good  color;  and  forcemeat  balls,  highly  seasoned,  should  be 
served  round  the  veal. 

BREAST   OF   VEAL   STEWED. 

Brown  the  veal  first,  by  half  roasting  it;  remove  as  many  of  the 
bones  as  possible,  and  then  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  stock,  a 
glass  of  wine,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
ham  bone,  and  a  carrot ;  let  it  simmer  slowly  in  the  oven  about 
half  an  hour  before  it  is  served ;  strain  off  the  sauce  and  remove 
the  herbs,  etc.,  put  it  then  back  with  the  veal,  first  thickening  it 
with  some  flour  browned  with  butter ;  let  it  boil  up  to  take  off  the 
raw  taste  of  the  flour ;  then  add  some  pickled  mushrooms  with  their 
juice,  and  serve. 

ROAST   FILIET   OF   VEAL. 

Take  out  or  ask  the  butcher  to  do  so,  the  bene  from  the  center, 
and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  nice  salt  pork, 
an  onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  all  chopped 


48  MEATS. 

up  together  until  thoroughly  blended ;  with  the  remainder  i\\\  up 
all  the  interstices  and  fasten  with  skewers ;  cover  down  in  a  bake- 
pan  with  a  teacupful  of  water,  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  oc- 
casionally ;  then  remove  the  cover  and  roast  until  it  becomes  a  rich 
brown.     This  dish  is  a  universal  favorite. 

LOIN    OF    VEAL 

This  is  best  larded.  Have  every  joint  thoroughly  cut,  and  be- 
tween each  one  lay  a  slice  of  salt  pork;  roast  a  fine  brown,  and 
so  that  the  upper  sides  of  the  pork  will  be  criep ;  baste  oflen ; 
season  with  pepper ;   the  pork  will  make  it  sufficiently  salt. 

KNUCKLE    OF    VEAL. 

The  knuckle,  which  is  left  after  cutting  off  the  fillet,  makes  excel- 
lent soup,  or  is  very  good  boiled  with  rice.  It  should  cook  slowly 
on  the  top  of  the  range,  so  that  the  rice  will  not  burn,  and  be 
aished  up  with  the  meat  in  the  center,  and  small  pieces  of  butter 
placed  at  intervals  round  it,  in  the  rice. 

KNUCKLE    OF    VEAL   WITH    RICE. 

Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal,  two  turnips,  one  onion,  six  pepper-cornSi, 
a  head  of  celery,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  rice,  together,  very  gently  on 
the  top  of  the  stove  for  about  three  hours,  skimming  occasionally, 
and  mixing  in  a  little  salt.  When  done,  send  it  to  the  table  with 
rice  around  the  veal.  The  stock  in  which  the  veal  has  boiled,  will 
help  to  make  good  soup. 

VEAL   CUTLETS. 

Take  six  neck  cutlets  of  veal,  trim  them  neatly,  and  cut  off  the 
bone ;  lard  the  cutlets,  put  them  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  little 
butter,  and  let  them  brown  ;  shake  a  little  flour  over  them,  and  then 
moisten  them  with  a  httle  stock ;  add  a  bunch  of  fine  herbs,  some 
carrots  cut  in  forms,  or  scalloped,  some  small  onions,  mushrooms, 
salt,  two  cloves ;  when  the  cutlets  are  done  enough,  dish  them  and 
put  the  vegetables  in  the  middle;  skim  the  sauce,  strain  it,  and 
pour  it  over  the  cutlets.     They  must  be  well  seasoned. 

MINCED    VEAL  WITH    MACARONI. 

Mince  up  cold  veal  with  a  slice  of  ham,  a  little  grated  rind  of 


MEATS.  49 

lemon,  a  little  salt,  and  a  few  spoonsful  of  broth  or  gravy.  Sim- 
mer gently,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  boil.  Serve  it  upon  small 
squares  of  buttered  toast,  and  surround  it  with  a  border  of  maca- 
roni, cooked  without  cheese. 

VEAL    FRITTERS. 

Cut  cold  boiled  veal  into  small  pieces,  dip  each  in  butter,  fry 
them  a  light  brown  color,  drain  them  well  from  the  fat,  pile  then", 
high  in  a  dish  and  pour  round  them  a  thick,  brown  sauce,  strongly 
flavored  with  fresh  tomatoes  when  in  season — when  not  in  season, 
use  tomato  sauce. 

BLANQUETTE    OF    VEAL. 

Cut  cold  roast  veal  in  small  pieces,  put  half  a  pint  of  white 
sauce,  and  a  little  mushroom  catsup  in  a  sauce-pan  ;  when  it  boils, 
put  in  the  meat  and  let  it  remain  until  it  is  well  heated ;  break  in 
an  egg  slightly  beaten ;  when  the  sauce  thickens  put  in  a  little  juice 
of  lemon,  and  send  to  table. 

VEAL   ROLLS. 

Cut  some  slices  of  veal  very  thin  and  divide  them  into  neat 
pieces.  Lay  on  each  some  good  forcemeat,  seasoned  high ;  roll 
each  up  tight,  and  tie  them  with  coarse  thread ;  put  them  on  a  bird 
spit;  after  dipping  each  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  flour 
them  over,  and  baste  them  with  butter;  half  an  hour  will  do  them. 
Have  a  good  gravy  ready,  with  truffles  and  mushrooms  chopped , 
and  after  dishing  the  rolls,  pour  the  gravy  round  them. 

MOCK   BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  a  leg  of  veal  and  corn  it  slightly,  by  sprinkling  salt  over 
it ;  let  it  lay  a  week,  then  cut  from  it  steaks,  which  fry  in  the  fat 
from  a  few  thin  slices  of  browned  salt  pork,  or  broil  and  serve 
with  butter  and  pepper ;  no  salt  will  be  needed. 

LOUIS'  FAVORITE   DISH. 

Take  two  pounds  of  veal  from  the  leg  or  the  neck,  and  cut  into 
nice  pieces,  which  fry  a  light   brown,  with  a  slice  of  ham  or  sail 
pork,  which  may  afterward  be  cut  in  pieces ;  have  ready  a  sauce, 
3 


50  MEATS. 

made  by  mixing  cold  gravy  or  soup  stock  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  a  little  thyme,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  button  mushrooms ; 
pour  this  over  the  veal  and  ham,  and  let  the  whole  simmer  together 
for  half  an  hour.  Of  course,  the  veal  and  ham  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  grease  in  which  they  were  fried,  and  placed  in  a 
clean  pan  before  the  sauce  is  poured  over  them. 

MINCED  VEAL. 

Take  the  part  that  is  rare  done,  of  either  roasted  or  boiled  veal, 
and  chop  it  very  fine.  Take  beef  gravy  sufficient  for  the  veal  to 
be  cooked  in,  dissolve  cavear,  of  the  quantity  of  an  acorn,  to  one 
pound  of  meat ;  put  into  the  gravy  the  minced  veal,  and  let  it  boil 
one  minute.  Pour  it  into  a  soup  dish,  upon  sippets  of  toasted 
bread.     Garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  bacon  broiled. 

VEAL    OMELETS. 

Three  pounds  of  finelv  chopped  veal,  three  eggs,  six  cracker 
rolls,  one  table-spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  thyme,  one  of  sage,  and 
half  a  table-spoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teacup  of  milk,  mix  well, 
form  into  a  loaf,  baste  with  milk  and  butter  while  baking.  Bake 
two  hours. 

VEAL  OLIVES. 

Cut  two  thin  steaks  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  beat  them  and  rub  them 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  then  cut  them  in  strips  from  four 
to  five  inches  in  length ;  lay  over  every  strip  a  very  thin  piece  of 
fat  bacon,  and  strew  them  over  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  lemon 
peel,  and  parsley,  chopped  small ;  season  with  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt.  Roll  them  up  separately,  and  fasten  them  with  a  little  wood- 
en skewer  in  each.  Dip  them  into  egg,  bread  crumbs  and  parsley, 
chopped  small.  Put  some  clarified  beef  dripping  into  a  frying  pan, 
hit  it  boil  up,  then  throw  in  the  veal  olives  and  fry  them  a  light 
brown  color.  Take  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  add  to  it  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  lemon  pickle,  and  same  of  walnut  catsup,  and  one 
of  browning ;  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  thicken  this  with 
flour  and  butter.  Place  the  veal  olives  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the 
gravy  hot  upon  them,  garnish  with  lemon  pickle  and  forcemeat 
balls,  and  strew  over  them  a  few  pickled  mushrooms. 


MEATS,  51 


VEAL     CHEESE. 

Take  the  hind  quarter  of  veal,  add  three  eggs,  one  pound  of 
pork,  half  a  loaf  of  bread;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  \ 
chop,  and  wet  the  whole  with  milk.  Bake  two  hours,  then  turn  it 
cut  and  eat  it  cold. 

A   ROAST   PIG. 

B  About  three  or  four  weeks  is  the  right  age,  to  roast  whole  ;  cut 
off  the  toes,  leaving  the  skin  long  to  wrap  around  the  ends  of  the 
legs,  and  put  it  in  cold  water.  Make  a  stuffing,  with  about  six 
powdered  crackers,  one  table-spoonful  of  sage,  two  of  summer- 
savory,  one  chopped  onion,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two  eggs,  with 
pepper,  and  salt.  Mix  these  together,  and  stew  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. Take  the  pig  from  the  water,  fill  it  with  the  stuffing,  and 
sew  it  up.  Boil  the  liver,  and  heart,  with  five  pepper-corns,  chop 
fine  for  the  gravy.  Put  the  pig  to  roast,  with  a  pint  of  water,  and 
a  table-spoonful  of  salt.  When  it  begins  to  roast,  flour  it  well 
and  baste  it  with  the  drippings.     Bake  three  hours. 

ROAST   PORK. 

For  roast  pork,  make  a  stuffing  of  crackers  powdered  fine,  with 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  two  eggs,  a  small  quantity  of  summer- 
savory,  pepper,  and  salt ;  cook  about  ten  minutes.  Take  the  leg 
of  pork,  of  seven  or  eight  pounds  in  weight,  and  raise  the  skin 
off  the  knuckle,  and  put  in  the  stuffing,  then  make  deep  cuts  in 
the  thick  part  of  the  leg,  and  fill  them  also.  It  must  be  floured 
over,  and  a  pint  of  water  put  in  the  pan.  While  roasting,  baste 
it  often  with  the  drippings.  Cook  about  three  hours  ami  a  half. 
Skim  some  of  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  a  little  flour,  and  boil  it 
well  a  few  minutes.  Serve  with  apple  sauce,  or  any  other  that 
may  be  preferred. 

SPARE   RIB   OF   PORK. 

Joint  it  down  the  middle ;  sprinkle  it  with  fine  sage,  salt,  and  a 
little  flour;  put  it  in  the  oven  and  baste  it  well.  Serve  it  with 
apple  sauce,  egg  sauce,  or  white  sauce. 


52  MEATS. 


PORK   CUTLETS. 

To  broil  or  fry  these,  cut  them  half  an  Inch  thick,  trim  them  into 
neat  form,  take  off  part  of  the  fat.  To  broil  them,  sprinkle  a  little 
pepper  on  them,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  and  moderate  fire  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  or  a  few  minutes  more ;  and  just  before  taking 
them  off,  sprinkle  over  a  little  fine  salt.  For  frying,  flour  thera 
well  and  season  with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  sage.  They  may  also 
be  dipped  into  an  egg,  and  then  into  bread  crumbs  mixed  with 
minced  sage  ;  if  for  broiling,  add  a  little  clarified  butter  to  the  egg, 
or  sprinkle  it  on  the  cutlets. 

BOSTON   PORK   AND   APPLE   PIE. 

Boil  one  pound  of  nice,  sweet,  salt  pork,  and  when  it  is  cold 
chop  it  up  fine.  Peel  half  a  peck  of  greening  apples,  chop  them 
up  also,  and  mix  with  the  pork.  Sweeten  with  sugar,  and  spice 
with  cinnamon  and  ground  cloves,  or  allspice,  and  bake  in  deep 
soup  plates,  slowly  and  thoroughly,  with  a  crust  on  both  sides. 

ENGLISH    PORK   OR  RAISED   PIE. 

These  constitute  a  favorite  luncheon  dish  in  England.  Take  a 
pound  of  nice  lard,  and  heat  it  until  melted,  in  a  little  water. 
Use  this  hot  melted  lard  to  mix  the  flour  into  a  paste,  with  a  little 
salt.  Work  the  paste  very  smooth,  divide  it,  and  form  each  piece 
into  a  round  ball,  gradually  working  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  and 
raising  a  wall,  two,  three,  or  four  inches  high  all  round,  according 
to  the  size  required.  Have  ready  the  pork,  fat  and  lean,  cut  into 
small  square  pieces ;  fill  each  pie,  season  highly,  fit  a  lid  neatly  to 
the  top,  egg  over,  and  bake  a  light  brown,  in  a  steady  but  not  a 
quick  oven. 

PORK   AND    POTATO   PIE. 

Take  some  pork  bones  from  which  the  meat  has  been  removed 
for  sausages  or  other  use.  Put  them  into  a  deep  dish  and  place 
amid  them  slices  of  apples  and  potatoes,  with  chopped  onions, 
salt  and  j)epper ;  add  a  little  water ;  cover  it  with  a  crust  and  bake 
slowly. 


MEATS.    -  53 


BACON    OMELET. 

Beat  up  some  eggs  (according  to  the  quantity  required,)  then 
add  salt,  pepper,  some  finely  cut  parsely  and  green  onions,  and  a 
slice  or  two  of  bacon  cut  into  very  fine  mince  meat;  mix  all  well 
together,  fry  and  scorch  the  top  with  a  red  hot  poker. 

^  BACON  EGG- CAP. 

Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  into  thin  slices  and  stew  them 
slowly,  turning  them  over  and  over.  Take  out  the  slices  and  put 
to  the  grease  two  spoonsful  of  any  stock  you  happen  to  have,  and 
break  over  it  six  or  seven  eggs.  Now  add  your  slices  of  bacon 
again,  pepper  and  salt,  cook  over  a  slow  fire,  and  scorch  the  top 
with  a  red  hot  poker. 

PORK  RELISH. 

Fry  some  slices  of  salt  pork  till  crisp,  take  them  out,  pour  a 
little  water  to  the  fat  and  season  it  with  pepper ;  sprinkle  in  a 
little  flour,  then  cut  up  the  pork  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  into 
this  thickened  gravy. 

TO   CURE   HAMS. — 1 

Weigh  your  hams,  and  make  a  brine  of  one  ounce  of  salt  to  every 
pound  of  meat,  and  one  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  every  twenty  pounds. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  the  tub  with  salt;  pack  the  hams  close,  and 
fill  the  chinks  with  stones.  Let  the  brine  cover  them  well.  After 
they  have  lain  three  or  four  weeks,  take  them  up,  dry  and  smoke 
them.  Then  wrap  them  in  papers  and  lay  them  in  ashes  in  a  cool, 
dry  cellar.  This  keeps  the  flies  from  them,  and  prevents  them 
from  getting  dry  and  hard.  Hams  cured  in  this  way,  keep  the 
year  round. 

TO   CURE   HAMS. — 2. 

For  every  one  hundred  lbs.  of  ham,  take  seven  lbs.  of  salt,  three 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  pearlash,  one  quart  of  molasses, 
five  gallons  of  water.  Re-pack  the  hams  at  the  end  of  the  first 
week,  and  put  the  same  pickle  on  them  again. 


54  MEATS. 


BOILED    HAM. 


A  ham,  if  dry,  may  be  soaked  over  night ;  if  moist,  this  may  be 
omitted.  Put  it  in  warm  water,  and  boil  it  for  five  or  six  hours. 
If  it  is  salt,  the  water  may  be  changed  once,  though  it  should  not 
be  put  into  cold  water.  Soft  water  is  best ;  if  the  water  is  hard, 
a  little  soda  may  be  added  to  it.  If  it  is  desired  to  give  the  flavor 
of  ham  to  vegetables,  they  may  be  boiled  in  some  of  the  liquor  the 
ham  was  boiled  in,  but  the  vegetables  should  not  be  put  in  with 
the  ham.  When  done  take  off  the  skin,  which  should  be  kept  as 
whole  as  possible,  (to  put  over  the  ham  when  cold,  which  will  pre- 
vent its  drying,)  and  grate  toasted  bread  over  it.  Boiled  ham  is 
best  eaten  cold.  When  served,  remove  the  skin,  stick  cloves  at 
intervals  with  a  ring  of  pepper  around  them,  and  garnish  with 
parsley^  or  put  fringed  paper  around  the  small  end. 

SUGARED    HAM. 

A^oi  bulling  the  ham  three  hours,  remove  the  skin,  sprinkle 
sugar  over  it  and  bake  one  hour.     It  will  be  delicious. 

POTTED    HAM. 

Take  th.**,  remains  of  a  boiled  ham,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
pound  it,  little  by  little,  in  a  mortar;  softening  it  during  the  pro- 
cess, with  a  hftie  melted  butter.  Add  Cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 
and  put  it  in  small  bowls,  glasses,  or  potting  jars,  pressing  it  down 
very  smooth.  Over  the  surface  pour  a  little  more  melted  butter ; 
cover  tight,  and  set  away.  It  will  kcfep  for  weeks.  This  is  a 
nice  supper  dish. 

BllOILED    HAM. 

Cut  the  ham  m  thin  slices,  and  broil  quick,  on  a  gridiron  set 
over  lively  hot  coals.  If  the  ham  is  too  salt,  soak  it  in  hot  water 
before  broiling,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth  before  putting  it  on  the 
fire.  Fry  some  eggs  in  an  equal  quantity  of  lard  and  butter,  put 
RFi  egg  on  each  slice  of  ham,  and  serve. 

WESTPHALIA  LOAVES. 

Mix  \    parter  of  a  pound  of  grated  ham,  with  one  pound  of 


MEATS.  55 

mealy  potatoes,  weil  beaten  until  quite  light,  and  add  a  little  butter, 
cream,  and  two  eggs ;  but  do  not  get  it  too  moist.  Make  into 
small  balls,  and  fry  with  a  little  lard,  a  light  brown.  Serve  with 
a  brown  thick  gravy.     Garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

HAM  OR  TONGUE  TOAST. 

Toast  a  thick  slice  of  bread,  and  butter  it  on  both  sides.  Take 
a  small  quantity  of  remains  of  ham,  or  tongue,  and  grate  it,  and 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  mixed 
with  a  little  butter,  salt,  and  cayenne ;  make  it  quite  hot,  then 
spread  thickly  upon  the  buttered  toast.     Serve  while  hot. 


SECONDARY  MEATS. 


YALE   BOAT   PIE. 


Iaj  three  or  four  pounds  of  steak  from  the  undercut  of  a  round 
of  beef,  in  a  middling  sized  dish,  having  seasoned  it  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Have  a  couple  of  chickens  at  hand,  cut  in  pieces  and 
seasoned ;  place  them  upon  the  steak,  and  over  them  one  dozen 
.and  a  half  of  fresh  fat  oysters.,  without  the  liquor.  Add  half  a 
dozen  fresh,  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  after  damping  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  with  half  a  pint  of  strong  ale,  cover  the  whole  with  fresh 
mushrooms,  adding  to  these  half  a  pound  of  glaze  or  plam  neats- 
foot-jelly ;  lay  over  the  dish  a  substantial  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
brisk  oven.     This  pie  is  excellent  for  a  picnic  or  water  excursion. 

IRISH    STEW. — 1. 

Take  off  the  under  bone  from  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mut- 
ton, and  cut  it  into  chops  ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  some 
mushroom  powder,  and  beaten  mace.  Put  the  meat  into  a  stew- 
pan,  slice  a  large  onion,  and  tie  up  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme, 
and  add  these  and  a  pint  of  veal  broth  to  the  meat.  Let  this  sim- 
mer until  the  chops  are  about  three  parts  done,  then  add  some  on- 
ions, and. whole  potatoes  peeled,  and  let  all  stew  together  until 
thoroughly  cooked.  Take  out  the  parsley  and  thyme,  and  serve 
up  in  a  deep  dish. 

IRISH    STEW. — 2. 

Take  as  much  of  mutton  as  is  required ;  the  scrag  end  is  tlie 
best  for  the  purpose.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  chops,  pare  all  *;he 
fat  off  the  piece,  chop  it  fine,  and  set  it  aside  for  dumplings ;  let 
tlr':*  meat  stew  till  perfectly  tender,  strain  the  liquor,  and  set  the 
meat  aside.  The  following  day  remove  the  fat,  put  the  liquor  in  a 
sauce  pan,  roll  each  piece  of  mutton  in  flour,  add  the  meat  to  the 


SECONDARY    MEATS.  57 

liquor,  and  sufficient  potatoes  and  onions  to  thicken  it.  Before 
serving,  add  a  layer  of  potatoes,  boiled  in  a  separate  sauce-pan, 
also  dumplings,  aKout  the  size  of  an  egg.  The  dumplings  will  take 
about  twenty  minutes  to  boil.  No  seasoning  is  required  except 
pepper  and  salt. 

BAKED   IRISH   STEW. 

Fill  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  mutton  or  beef,  sliced  pota- 
toes and' onions  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  in  plenty  of 
water  for  gravy,  and  cover  the  top  closely  with  potatoes ;  cook  in 
a  moderate  oven,  and  let  the  potatoes  on  top  be  browned  before  it 
is  served ;   the  onion  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 

BOILED   TONGUE. 

Saltpetered  tongue  requires  five  or  six  hours  to  boil.  When 
done,  lay  it  in  cold  water  three  minutes,  peel  off  the  skin,  beginning 
at  the  tip  of  the  tongue,  as  it  comes  off  much  easier. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Add  to  a  pint  of  water,  or  veal  stock,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
mace,  and  pepper  and  salt;  in  this  put  your  sweetbreads, — two 
good  sized  ones  ;  stew  them  an  hour  or  more  ;  then  take  them  out, 
mix  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  milk,  mushrooms,  and  cat- 
sup, and  add  to  the  liquor  when  it  boils ;  put  in  the  sweetbread  for 
a  moment.     Serve  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 

TO   FRY   SWEETBREAD. 

Scald  them  first ;  fry  them  in  butter,  with  a  little  sweet  marjoram 
and  parsley  chopped  fine,  and  served  with  a  gravy,  flavored  with 
mushroom  catsup. 

MEAT   OMNIUM. 

Take  all  the  pieces  of  cooked  meat  you  have,  no  matter  whether 
boiled  or  roast,  butcher's  meat,  poultry  or  game,  and  mince  very 
fine.  Put  the  whole  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  parsley,  a  few 
green  onions,  and  mushrooms,  if  you  can  get  them,  one  or  two 
eggs  beaten  up,  and  a  little  gravy  or  stock.  Simmer  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour ;  then  take  a  meat  dish,  pour  upon  it  a  iay<3r  of  yout 


58  SECONDARY   MEATS. 

Stew,  a  layer  of  bread  in  slices,  another  layer  of  stew,  and  so  on, 
and  heat  in  an  oven.  When  hot,  pour  it  over  the  rest  of  the  stew 
hot,  and  serve. 

SAUSAGE   MEAT. 

Take  one  pound  of  fresh  pork,  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  an  1 
chop  them  very  fine ;  mix  this  with  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  the  same  quantity  of  salt,  five  of  powdered  sage,  and  five 
of  summer  savory  ;  make  this  into  small  cakes  and  place  them  upon 
a  plate.     When  needed,  fry  them  in  the  same  manner  as  sausages. 

GOOD    SAUSAGES. 

First  chop  separately,  and  then  together,  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  veal,  free  from  fat,  skin,  and  sinew,  and  an  equal  weight  of  lean 
pork,  and  of  the  inside  fat  of  the  pig.  Mix  them  well,  and  sprin- 
kle on  an  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  pepper, 
one  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  pounded  mace. 
Turn  and  chop  all  together  until  equally  seasoned  throughout; 
press  the  sausages  into  a  clean  pan,  and  keep  them  in  a  very  cool 
place.  When  wanted,  form  them  into  cakes  an  inch  thick  or  less 
flour  and  fry  them  about  ten  minutes,  in  a  little  butter, 

RISSABLES. 

Chop  veal  and  ham  together  finely,  add  a  few  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  parsley  and  lemon  peel,  or  shallot ; 
mix  all  together  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten ;  either  roll 
them  into  shape  like  a  flat  sausage,  or  into  the  shape  of  pears, 
sticking  a  bit  of  horseradish  in  the  ends,  to  resemble  the  stalks ; 
egg  each  over,  and  grate  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  brown  and  serve 
on  crisp  fried  parsley. 

grandmother's   BREAKFAST   BALLS. 

A  little  cold  beef,  or  mutton,  or  both ;  a  slice  of  ham,  or  salt 
pork ;  a  small  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  parsley,  a  little 
sage,  or  thyme,  all  chopped  together,  and  mixed  with  an  egg,  a 
little  melted  butter,  and  seasoning.  Take  a  table  spoonful  of  the 
mixture,  dredge  it  with  the  flour,  and  make  into  a  ball,  which  fry 
a  quick  brown. 


SECONDARY   MEATS.  59 

This  constitutes  an  elegant  breakfast  dish,  and  Is  a  good  way  o! 
getting  rid  of  cold  meat,  particularly  if  hash  is  not  liked. 

TURKISH   DALMA. 

Chop  the  lean  of  any  cold  meat,  with  a  quarter  pound  of  beef 
wet,  very  fine ;  mix  with  quarter  pound  of  scalded  rice ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Take  cabbage 
leaves,  dip  them  in  water,  make  the  meat  into  shape  of  cucumbers, 
and  fold  the  leaves  round  them,  tying  each  with  a  thread ;  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  gravy,  an  anchovy,  and  an  onion :  stew  a  long 
time  gently.  The  thread  is  taken  ofif  when  served,  and  the  gravy 
browned  with  flour  and  a  little  butter. 

TO  COOK  COLD  MEATS. 

Put  the  cold  meat  into  a  chopping  bowl,  cut  them  fine,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion  or  else  tomato  catsup.  Fill  a  tin 
bread  pan  two  thirds  full;  cover  it  over  with  mashed  potato 
which  has  been  salted  and  has  milk  in  it ;  lay  bits  of  butter  over 
the  top,  and  set  it  into  an  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

SAVORY  WINTER  HASH. 

Any  kind  of  cold  meat,  a  few  cold  potatoes,  an  onion,  pepper 
and  salt,  a  little  dried  parsley,  sage,  and  summer  savory.  Chop 
all  together.  Put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  little  gravy,  or  hot  wa- 
ter, and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Turn  out  over  thin  slices  of  toast.  It  is  palatable  to 
persons  who  do  not  usually  like  hash. 

TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE. 

Make  a  batter  of  six  ounces  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  or" 
three  eggs,  a  little  lard,  salt  and  pepper ;  put  into  it  a  pound  of 
beef  sausages,  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Instead  of  beef  sausages, 
slices  of  any  meat  you  have,  or  half  a  pound  of  pork  sausages,  or 
a  few  oysters  with  meat  trimmings,  may  be  used. 

cow  HEEL. 

Boil  in  water  a  split  cow  heel  (one  already  used  for  stock  will 
do)  four  or  five  hours ;  then  add  a  pint  of  milk,  and  boil  for  two 


60  SECONDARY    MEATS. 

hours  more,  adding  an  onion  or  two,  and  if  you  like,  a  little  chop- 
ped parsley. 

FRIED   cow   HEEL. 

Cut  a  stewed  cow  heel  into  pieces  about  two  inches  long,  and  put 
the  pieces  into  a  frying  pan  with  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  little  minced  parsley.  You  will  require  to  have  grease  in  the 
pan,  and  it  should  be  boiling  before  you  put  your  cow  heel  in. 
About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  suffice  for  frying.  It  would  be  a 
great  improvement  if  you  were  to  beat  up  an  egg  and  dip  each 
piece  into  it,  before  you  put  it  into  the  hot  frying  pan. 

sheep's  trotters. 

Into  a  stewpan  put  a  little  suet  with  sliced  onions  and  carrots, 
thyme,  salt  and  pepper ;  let  these  simmer  for  about  five  minutes. 
Next  add  two  spoonsful  of  flour  and  water,  and  keep  stirring  till  it 
boils ;  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  trotters  and  simmer  for  three 
hours  or  more.  Now  mix  in  two  eggs,  beaten  up  in  milk,  but  do 
not  let  your  stewpan  boil  again.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish,  and  gar- 
itish  with  toasted  bread. 

SWEET   BREAD,    LIVER  AND  HEART. 

Parboil  the  sweet  bread,  and  let  them  get  cold.  Cut  them  in 
pieces  about  an  inch  thick ;  put  on  salt,  and  pepper  and  sage ; 
then  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  them  a  light  brown.  Another  way  is,  to  fry  slices  of  salt  pork 
until  brown,  take  out  the  pork  and  fry  the  sweet  bread  in  the  fat. 
When  done,  make  a  gravy  by  stirring  a  little  flour  and  water  mix- 
ed smooth,  into  the  fat ;  add  spices,  and  wine,  if  you  like.  The 
liver  and  heart  are  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  or  broiled. 

calf's   HEAD   CAKE. 

Parboil  half  a  calf's  head,  with  a  little  sage ;  cut  off  the  meat, 
put  the  bones  back  into  the  broth,  and  boil  them  until  the  broth  is 
much  reduced.  Cut  up  the  meat  and  put  it  into  the  jar  with  the 
tongue,  mace,  pepper,  &c.,  add  a  few  small  slices  of  ham ;  put  the 
jar  into  the  oven  covered,  and  let  it  stand  some  hours  until  the  con- 
tents are  thoroughly  done ;  then  mix  it  with  the  brains  beaten  up 


SECONDARY    MEATS.  '     61 

with  an  egg.  Put  pieces  of  hard  boiled  egg  in  a  mold,  pour  the 
mixture  from  the  jar  into  it,  and  let  it  get  entirely  cold,  then  turn 
it  out.  This  dish  can  be  made  also  with  sheep's  head,  carefully 
scalded  and  soaked. 

calf's  head  hash. 

Take  a  calf's  head  or  half  a  one,  as  you  desire ;  parboil  it,  cut 
off  the  best  parts  in  slices,  and  set  these  aside  for  the  hash.  Put 
the  rest,  bones  and  all,  with  any  other  bones  you  may  have,  es- 
pecially a  ham  bone,  each  into  the  liquor  with  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  fried  onion,  half  head  of  celery,  mace, 
salt,  and  peppercorns,  according  to  taste.  Let  these  ingredients 
stew  gently  together,  until  the  liquor  is  so  strong  that,  when  it  is 
cold,  it  will  form  a  jelly.  Strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  after- 
wards through  a  cloth,  and  when  cold,  remove  all  the  fat  which 
may  rise  to  the  top.  Take  of  this  jelly  the  quantity  that  may  be 
required  for  gravy,  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  add  to  it  mushroom 
catsup,  Worcester  sauce,  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  Chili  wine.  Now 
put  In  the  slices  of  meat,  and  let  them  warm  gently,  but  do  not  let 
them  boil.  Before  serving  to  table  add,  If  you  desire,  a  wine-glass 
of  sherry,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy,  and  garnish  with  brain 
cakes  and  slices  of  lemon.  Butter  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  to 
make  it  thicker. 

lamb's  head  and  hinge. 

Soak  the  head  well  in  cold  water  and  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Parboil  the  heart,  liver,  and  if  desired,  the  lights ;  mince  them 
quite  small,  mix  them  with  gravy,  season  them,  pour  them  on  sip- 
pets of  toasted  bread  in  a  soup  dish,  broil  the  bread  and  lay  it 
upon  the  mince.  It  can  be  garnished  with  shced  pickled  cucum- 
bers and  slices  of  bacon. 

BRAIN   CAKES. 

Wash  the  brains  thoroughly,  first  in  cold  and  afterwards  in  hot 
water;  remove  the  skin  and  fibers,  and  then  boil  the  brains  in 
water  with  a  little  salt,  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Take  them  up 
and  beat  them  in  a  basin  with  some  very  finely  chopped  parsley, 
sifted  sage,  salt,  mace,  cavenne  pepper,  the  well-beaten  yolk  of 


62  SECONDARY   MEATS. 

an  egg,  and  a  gill  of  cream.  Drop  tliem  in  small  cakes  into  the 
frying  pan,  and  fry  them  in  butter  a  light  brown  color.  A  little 
flour  and  grated  lemon  peel  are  sometimes  added. 

TRIPE. 

The  tripe,  after  being  corned,  should  be  soaked  in  salt  and  watei 
five  or  six  days,  changing  the  water  every  day;  then  cut  it  in 
pieces,  scrape  it  and  rinse  it.  Boil  it  until  quite  tender,  which 
will  take  half  a  day  or  more,  and  it  will  then  be  fit  for  broiling, 
frying  or  pickling.     Drop  it  into  a  jar  of  spiced  vinegar. 

FRIED   TRIPE. 

After  being  boiled,  let  it  be  quite  cold ;  cut  it  in  pieces,  roll 
them  cornerwise,  tie  them  with  a  thread,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and 
mace  over  them,  roll  them  in  eggs  and  crumbs,  fry  in  fat  a  nice 
brown ;  serve  with  onion  sauce,  with  a  little  lemon  and  tomato 
catsup  boiled  in. 

STEWED   TRIPE. 

Choose  the  thickest  and  whitest  tripe,  cut  the  white  part  into  thin 
slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  white  gravy,  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  httle  lemon  juice,  and  a  httle  grated  lemon 
peel.  Add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  with  a  little  cream  and 
chopped  parsley^  and  two  or  three  chives.  Shake  them  together 
over  a  slow  fire  until  the  gravy  is  as  thick  as  cream,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  Serve  it  with  sippets,  and  garnish,  if  desired,  with  sliced 
lemon. 

BRAWN. 

Take  the  lower  half  of  a  pig's  face,  the  feet  and  ears,  rub  then 
well  with  salt,  let  them  remain  so  a  week  or  ten  days.  Salt 
beef  tongue  the  same  way,  for  the  same  time.  Then  let  the  face 
ears,  and  feet  boil  half  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover  them ; 
take  them  out  and  clean  them  thoroughly,  then  put  them  back  with 
the  tongue  also,  and  boil  for  three  hours,  or  until  the  meat  will  slip 
from  the  bones.  Then  take  it  off,  remove  the  bone,  cut  the  meat  in 
small  pieces,  the  tongue  into  thin  slices  ;  mix  all  together  and  sea- 
son with  plenty  of  pepper,  a  little  ground  allspice,  &c.     Then  put 


SECONDARY    MEATS.  63 

it  into  a  mold  in  layers  of  fat  and  lean,  press  it  down  with  a  spoon, 
add  a  little  liquor  from  the  saucepan,  put  a  heavy  weight  on  the 
top,  and  let  it  stand  till  next  morning,  when  it  is  ready  to  turn  out 
and  send  to  table.  It  can  be  sent  with  a  piece  of  white  paper 
fastened  round  and  served,  if  desired,  with  a  little  sauce  of  mustard 
vinegar,  and  brown  sugar.  The  beef  tongue  makes  it  much 
nicer,  though  some  omit  it  merely  chopping  the  pig^s  tongue  with 
the  face,  ears  and  feet. 


FISH, 


TO   BOIL  FISH. 


Clean  and  rinse  the  fish,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth,  and  place  it  in  the 
kr,ttle  with  cold  water,  adding  a  little  salt;  boil  slowly  but  constant- 
ly ;  let  the  water  always  cover  the  fish,  remove  the  scum  that  rises, 
add  a  little  vinegar  when  nearly  done.  The  fish  is  done  when  the 
flesh  can  be  separated  from  the  back  bone  by  running  a  thin  sharp 
knife  in  ;  be  careful  not  to  let  the  fish  be  overdone.  Drain  it  dry 
on  a  sieve,  keeping  it  hot ;  lay  it  on  the  fish  platter  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  it.  Serve  with  sauces  composed  of  drawn  butter. 
If  a  fish  kettle  with  strainer  is  used,  the  fish  need  not  be  wrapped 
in  cloth. 

Fresh  cod,  haddock,  whiting  and  shad,  are  better  for  being  salt- 
ed the  night  before  cooking  them.  The  muddy  smell  that  is  some- 
times noticed  in  Ir-esh  water  fish,  is  obviated  by  soaking  it,  after 
cleaning,  in  strong  salt  and  water ;  after  which,  dry  it  on  a  napkin, 
and  dress  it. 

TO   FRY   FISH. 

Cleanse  them  thoroughly,  dry  them  well,  dip  them  in  flour,  or 
first  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs ; 
fry  in  lard  or  beef  drippings,  or  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter. 
Butter  alone  takes  out  the  sweetness,  and  gives  a  bad  color.  Turn 
on  both  sides,  and  cook  a  rich  yellow  brown.  Fried  parsley,  grated 
horse-radish,  or  slices  of  lemon  are  used  as  garnish.  The  fat  fried 
from  salt  pork  is  good  to  fry  fish  in.  Some  fish  can  be  dipped  in 
Indian  meal  instead  of  flour,  if  preferred.  Trout  and  perch  should 
not  be  dipped  in  Indian  meal. 


FISH.  65 

WHITE  FISH  BROII.ED.     {Lake  Superior  style,) 

This  IS  one  of  the  most  delicious  of  lake  fish.  Cut  it  in  two  pieces 
down  through  the  centre  of  the  back,  lay  in  a  pan,  and  cover  with 
cold  water,  into  which  you  have  put  a  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Let 
t  lay  for  two  hours,  this  makes  *t  "iiir.  Then  take  it  out,  wrap  it 
in  a  dry  cloth,  and  let  it  remain  until  ready  for  cooking.  Have  a  nice 
bed  of  coals,  grease  your  gridiron  well,  put  on  a  little  salt,  and 
some  pepper.  Broil  for  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an  hour,  accord- 
ing to  size,  turning  it  to  brown  on  both  sides.  It  will  not  break  in 
pieces.     Serve  with  white  sauce. 

WHITE  FISH  BOILED.     {Lake  Superior  style,) 

This  is  a  very  delicate,  and  highly  esteemed  dish.  Place  the 
fish  ivJiole,  in  a  fish  kettle ;  cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  or  more  of  salt,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Ten  minutes 
after  it  boils,  will  cook  it.  Take  it  out  carefully,  serve  with  egg 
sauce,  which  is  white  sauce,  with  a  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  up 
in  it. 

BOILED   SALMON. 

Draw  the  fish  into  the  form  of  the  letter  S,  by  running  a  thread 
through  the  tail,  centre  of  the  body  and  head ;  or  if  it  is  part  of  a 
fish,  fold  it  in  a  clean  cloth.  When  bent,  cut  two  or  three  slant- 
ing gashes  on  each  side,  to  prevent  the  skin  breaking  and  disfigur- 
ing the  fish.  Plunge  it  in  boiling  water  in  which  a  handful  of  salt 
to  four  quarts  of  water  has  been  mixed,  and  the  scum  arising  from- 
it  skimmed  oflT.  Put  in  with  the  fish,  a  little  horse  radish.  Boil 
until  very  well  done,  about  quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound  of 
fish ;  and  serve  with  lobster,  or  white  parsley  sauce ;  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon.  For  vegetables,  mashed  potatoes,  and  cucumbers 
sliced  in  vinugar,  can  be  served.  A  salmon  should  be  chosen  for 
its  brightness  of  color,  complete  covering  of  scales,  firmness  of 
fiesh,  whitncss  of  the  belly,  brightness  of  the  eye,  and  redness  ot 
the  scales.  Artificial  means,  it  is  said,  are  sometimes  adopted  to 
give  redness  to  the  gills  of  salmon  and  other  fish,  to  deceive  in- 
experienced buyers. 


66  FISH. 


BROILED   SALMON. 

About  an  inch,  is  the  proper  thickness  to  cut  the  slices ;  dry 
them  with  a  cloth,  put  salt  on  them,  and  lay  them  skin  side  down, 
on  a  gridiron  over  hot  coals.  Before  laying  on  the  fish,  rub  the 
bars  with  lard,  to  prevent  them  sticking.  When  broiled  suffici- 
ently on  one  side,  turn  the  fish,  by  laying  a  plate  upon  it  and 
turning  the  gridiron  over ;  then  slip  the  salmon  from  the  plate  on 
to  the  gridiron.     This  prevents  its  breaking. 

SALMON   AND   SALAD. 

The  remains  of  boiled  salmon,  instead  of  being  pickled,  as  is 
usually  done ;  are  very  good  sent  to  table  cold,  to  be  eaten  with 
salad.  Trim  the  fish  neatly,  ornament  it  with  sprigs  of  parsley, 
and  serve  with  a  bowl  of  salad,  made  as  follows :  Boil  a  cauli- 
flower till  about  two  thirds  done ;  let  it  get  cold,  break  it  in  bunch- 
es, lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  put  to  it  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar. 
This  is  an  excellent  dish  in  hot  weather. 

TO   KIPPER   SALMON. 

Lay  the  fish  on  its  side  and  cut  it  from  tail  to  head,  taking  care 
not  to  injure  the  belly  by  inserting  the  knife  too  far ;  wash  the  fish 
well,  take  out  the  eyes,  and  put  a  pinch  of  salt  in  their  place ;  then 
sprinkle  a  handful  or  two  of  brown  sugar  over  the  inside,  and 
above  the  sugar  the  same  quantity,  or  rather  more,  of  common 
salt ;  lay  the  salmon  on  a  flat  board,  the  inside  up ;  cover  with  a 
cloth  and  let  it  remain  twenty-four  hours  (or  if  wished  saltish, 
thirty-six)  in  a  dry  place,  neither  too  hot  nor  too  cold.  If  the  weath- 
er is  fine,  an  hour  or  two  of  exposure  to  the  sun  and  air  will  accel- 
erate the  curing  process.  The  kipper  is  in  perfection  after  it  has 
been  dried  twenty-four  hours,  but  it  will  keep  a  considerable  time. 
To  cook  it,  cut  it  in  slices,  wrap  each  in  a  piece  of  paper  and  fry 
it ;  send  it  to  the  table  in  paper. 

PICKLED   SALMON. 

Scald,  clean,  and  split  the  salmon ;  then  cut  into  pieces  and  lajr 
them  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water 
and  vinegar,  enough  to  cover  them ;  put  in  salt,  pepper,  six  blades 


FISH.  67 

of  mace,  twelve  bay  leaves.  When  the  salmon  has  boiled  enough, 
drain  and  lay  it  on  a  cloth,  put  more  salmon  into  the  kettle  and 
boil ;  continue  doing  this  till  all  is  done.  When  all  is  cold,  pack 
the  fish,  and  cover  with  pickle;  place  something  heavy  upon  the 
fish  to  keep  it  down,  that  it  may  be  covered  entinily  with  the  pickle, 
which  must  be  occasionally  poured  off  and  scalded.  Cover  it  close- 
ly to  keep  it  from  the  air.  i 

BROILED   SHAD. 

Shad  should  be  baked,  fried  or  broiled.  For  broiling,  remove 
the  roes,  clean  and  dry  thoroughly,  cut  into  straight  halves,  and 
lay  with  the  roes  on  a  well-heated  and  well-greased  gridiron,  over 
a  moderate  fire  ;  put  the  cover  on  so  that  it  will  cook  through  while  it 
is  browning,  and  only  turn  once ;  when  it  is  done  remove  it  to  a 
warm  dish,  spread  over  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it,  for  a  moment,  in  the  oven ;  gar- 
nish with  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley  before  serving. 

FRIED   SHAD. 

Divide  the  two  halves  in  pieces  two  or  three  inches  wide,  salt  and 
pepper  them  and  put  them  in  a  pan,  in  which  the  fat,  to  keep  them 
from  sticking,  has  already  been  made  boiling  hot ;  fry  a  rich  brown 
on  both  sides,  cooking  the  inside  first,  and  serve  hot.  The  roes 
may  be  fried  in  the  same  way. 

BAKED   SHAD 

Baked  shad  does  not  require  to  be  cut  down  the  back ;  only 
cleaned,  the  roes  removed,  and  the  inside  filled  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  pork,  an  onion,  sage,  thyme,  parsley, 
and  pepper  and  salt ;  chop  all  together  fine,  fill  and  sew  up  the 
shad,  and  place  in  a  pan  with  three  or  four  slices  of  the  pork  over 
it,  and  the  roes  at  the  side ;  bake  one  hour,  and  you  will  have  a 
dish  fit  for  an  editor. 

SHAD  MAITRE   D'hOTEL. 

Butter  a  pan  and  lay  the  shad  in  it,  with  an  onion  sliced,  a  bay 
leaf,  five  cloves,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar, 
and  two  of  gravy ;  make  four  or  five  incisions  on  both  sides  of  tbo 


68  MEATS. 

shad,  cutting  down  to  the  bone,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
put  into  a  rather  slow  oven  ;  let  it  bake  twenty  minutes,  then  take 
it  out,  remove  the  paper,  baste  thoroughly  and  put  it  back ;  let  it 
remain  in  the  oven  altogether  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or 
an  hour  if  the  fish  is  a  large  one,  basting  frequently  with  the  liquor 
in  the  pan ;  then  take  it  out,  fill  the  incisions  with  chopped  parsley 
and  butter,  and  put  back,  while  making  a  sauce  of  a  little  butter, 
flour,  broth,  and  lemon  juice,  into  which  pour  all  the  liquid  sur- 
rounding the  shad ;  boil  up  once,  dish  the  fish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

FRESH   MACKEREL. 

This  is  a  Spring  luxury.  Purchased  in  the  city  they  are  already 
cleaned,  and  require  only  to  be  rolled  in  a  clean  cloth,  put  in  cold 
water,  and  cooked  for  five  minutes,  after  coming  to  a  boil ;  serve 
with  parsley  sauce,  made  with  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  mixed 
smooth  with  cold  milk,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
egg]  garnish  with  green  parsley,  and  eat  with  stewed  gooseberries. 

SOUSED   MACKEREL. 

Take  fresh  mackerel,  well  cleaned,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  mm* 
utes,  or  until  tender,  in  salt  and  water.  Take  of  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  half  as  much  as  will  cover  them ;  add  the  same 
amount  of  good  vinegar,  some  whole  pepper,  cloves,  and  a  blade 
or  two  of  mace.  Pour  over  hot.  In  twelve  hours  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.     Shad  is  very  nice  soused  in  the  same  way. 

BOILED   BASS,    ROCK   FISH,    ETC. 

These  should  be  boiled  plain,  leaving  on  the  head  and  tail.  Le* 
them  boil  steadily  half  an  hour,  serve  with  drawn  butter  nuxeH 
with  finely  chopped  eggs,  which  have  been  boiled  three  quarters  of 
an  hour. 

PICKED   UP  CODFISH   AND   POTATOES. 

This  is  as  old  and  esteemed  a  dish  as  pork  and  beans.  Put 
your  salted  codfish  in  soak  the  night  before ;  pick  it  off  in  shredj* 
the  next  morning,  and  scald  it  in  a  saucepan,  pouring  off  the  wa- 
ter just  before  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  this  will  freshen  it  sufficiently. 


Fisn.  09 

Put  in  then  a  little  more  water,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  a 
few  shakes  of  pepper,  and  let  it  cook  till  it  is  tender.  When  it  is 
done,  thicken  it  with  a  beaten  egg  but  don't  allow  it  to  boil ;  and 
mix  it  with  double  its  bulk  in  potatoes,  mashed  finely  with  milk, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Pile  up  as  near  like  a 
haystack  as  possible,  pour  over  the  whole  some  good  egg  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  parsley  and  egg  rings. 

BAKED   COD,    BLACK   FISH,    HADDOCK,    ETC. 

Spread  little  slices  of  bread  with  butter ;  pepper  and  salt  them 
and  lay  them  inside  the  fish.  Then  take  a  needle  and  thread  and 
sew  it  up.  Put  a  small  skewer  through  the  lip  and  tail,  and  fasten 
them  together  with  a  piece  of  twine.  Lay  it  into  a  dish,  in  which  it 
it  may  be  served ;  put  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  upon  it, 
sprinkle  salt  over  it,  and  flour  it  well.  Baste  it  several  times  with  the 
liquor  which  cooks  out  of  it.  A  fish  weighing  four  pounds  will  cook 
m  an  hour. 

BROILED   WHITINGS. 

Make  a  brine  with  salt  and  witer,  sprigs  of  parsley,  shallots  and 
O'nions,  and  let  the  whole  boil  together  for  half  an  hour ;  strain  it 
and  boil  the  whitings  in  it,  adding  a  third  part  of  inilk.  Drain  them 
when  done,  and  make  the  following  sauce  for  them  :  A  piece  of 
butter,  some  flour,  two  whole  green  shallots,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Thicken  this  with  cream ;  take  out  the  shallots,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  whitings. 

WATER    SOUCIIY,    OR   SQODJEE. 

This  mode  of  dressing  fish  may  be  used  for  soles,  flounders,  and 
also  fresh  water  fish  of  almost  any  description.  The  fish  should  be 
thoroughly  cleansed  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  sufi[iclent  cold 
water  for  broth,  a  very  small  quantity  of  white  wine  vinegar,  and 
some  salt.  While  boiling  they  must  be  carefully  skimmed ;  and 
when  thoroughly  done,  served  In  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled ;  to  which  should  be  added  some  roots  of  parsley,  cut, 
trimmed,  and  boiled.  A  few  parsley  leaves,  boiled  to  a  nice 
green,  should  be  strewed  over  the  fish,  and  bread  and  butter  sent 
up  to  eat  with  the  souchy. 


70  FISH. 


FRIED   COD  AND  HADDOCK. 

Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  about  the  size  as  to  help  at  table ;  wash  and 
wipe  them  dry,  roll  them  in  Indian  meal.  Fry  some  pieces  of  salt 
^ork ;  take  out  the  pork,  and  put  into  the  frying-pan  some  lard ; 
w^hen  it  is  quite  hot  put  in  the  fish  and  fry  it  a  light  brown ;  dish  it 
jvith  the  fried  pork,  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

COD   OR   SALMON   CUTLETS. 

To  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  cold  boiled  fish,  put  half  a  pound 
of  cold  potatoes,  half  a  pound  of  butter;  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
mace,  and  some  anchovy  sauce.  Pound  all  these  together  in  a 
mortar,  thoroughly.  When  well  beaten,  make  the  mixture  into 
the  shape  of  small  cutlets,  dip  them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fi-y  them  until  they  are  of  a  light  brown  color.  They  are  excellent 
as  a  side  dish  or  entree, 

FISH  ROES   IN   CASES. 

Put  the  sofl  roes  from  half  a  dozen  broiled  mackerel  or  shad 
into  paper  cases,  with  shred  parsley,  a  little  rasped  bread,  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Bake  them,  and  serve  them  up  with  lemon  juice 
squeezed  over  them. 

SMALL   FISH   FRICASSEED. 

Fry  the  fish  a  nice  brown  color,  and  drain  them.  Take  another 
small  fish,  remove  all  the  meat  from  it,  and  chop  it  fine,  mixing 
with  it  a  little  grated  bread,  some  lemon  peel,  chopped  parsley, 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  the  yolks  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  butter ; 
make  this  up  into  small  balls  and  fry  them.  Into  some  good  gravy 
thickened  with  flour,  put  some  red  wine,  and  boil  it  up  adding 
cayenne  pepper,  catsup,  and  lemon  juice ;  place  the  fish  and  balls 
in  it,  simmer  them  a  few  moments,  and  serve,  garnished  with 
lemon. 

TRENTON   FALLS   FRY. 

Let  some  small  fish  soak  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  chopped  sweet  herbs.  After  taking  them  out,  drain 
them,  and  stuff  them  with  crumbs   of  bread,  boiled  in  milk,  and 


FISH.  71 

teat  up  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  then  sprinkle  them  with  flour, 
and  fry  them  of  a  good  color.  Serve  them  up  on  fried  parsley. 
They  should  be  very  dry  and  crisp. 

FISH  AND   MACARONI 

Rub  the  inside  of  a  mold  with  fresh  butter,  and  strew  grated 
cheese  at  the  bottom  of  it  to  the  thickness  of  about  an  inch ;  then 
put  in  a  layer  of  macaroni  of  about  the  same  thickness.  Upon 
this  lay  some  fish  of  whatever  kind  preferred,  boned,  cut  in  pieces, 
and  strewed  with  parsley,  thyme,  and  shallots  finely  chopped ;  also 
some  pounded  spices  and  cayenne  pepper,  adding  another  layer  of 
macaroni  and  cheese.  Bake  it  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 
carefully  turn  it  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  it  up  with  a  little  good 
stock  gravy  round  it. 

FISH   AND   MACARONI. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  water  until  tender,  drain  it,  and  cut  it  into 
short  pieces.  Remove  the  bones  and  skin  from  any  kind  of  white 
boiled  fish,  tear  it  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  it  with  the  macaroni. 
Then  make  a  sauce  of  two  ounces  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  one  or 
two  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Heat  this  in  a 
sauce-pan,  pouring  m  half  a  pint  of  good  melted  butter,  stir  it,  and 
put  in  the  fish  and  macaroni.  When  hot,  pour  it  out  in  a  dish, 
heaping  it  in  the  centre;  sprinkle  fine  bread  crumbs  over  it  and 
bake  the  top  a  light  brown  color  in  the  oven. 

FRIED    SMELTS. 

Split  them  just  far  enough  to  clean  them ;  lay  them  in  salt  and 
water,  and  let  them  remain  an  hour ;  then  wash  and  wipe  them, 
have  ready  two  eggs  beat  up  in  a  plate,  and  some  cracker  crumbs 
in  another  plate ;  put  about  two  pounds  of  lard  into  the  frying 
pan ;  set  it  on  the  fire  until  it  is  very  hot ;  dip  the  smelts  into  the 
eggs,  roll  them  in  the  crumbs,  and  put  them  into  the  boiling  fat; 
fry  them  a  light  brown ;  serve  them  hot,  with  drawn  butter. 

FRESH    HERRINGS 

These  can  be  broiled  or  fried.  After  scaling  and  cleaning  them 
nicely,  split  them  quite  open,  wash  the  insides  with  care,  dry  thera 


72  FISH. 

in  a  cloth,  remove  the  head,  tail  and  back  lones,  rub  the  insldes 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  pounded  mace ;  stick  small  bits  of 
butter  on  them ;  skewer  two  of  the  fish  together  as  flat  as  possible, 
the  skin  of  both  outside ;  flour  and  boil  them  in  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  mi«utes,  or  fry  them  about  ten  minutes,  until  brown  ;  and  serve 
with  melted  butter  mixed  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  some  salt, 
and  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

TO   DRESS   FISH   A   SECOND   TIME. 

Put  four  table  spoonsful  of  bread  crumbs  to  a  small  quantity  of 
fish  ;  add  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  essence  of  ancho- 
vy, and  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne.  Mix  these  all  well  with 
the  fish,  which  should  previously  be  taken  from  the  bones,  and  steam 
it  until  it  is  heated  through.  Any  cold  boiled  fish  may  be  dressed 
this  way. 

FISH   PUDDING. 

Take  cold  boiled  fish,  the  part  that  is  white,  and  mashed  pota- 
toes, an  equal  quantity ;  mix  well  together,  breaking  the  fish  very 
fine ;  add  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  or  cream  instead  of  the 
butter ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put 
the  mixture  in,  keeping  the  top  rough,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  till 
heated  through,  and  the  top  nicely  browned. 

CHOWDER. 

For  a  capital  Spring  chowder,  put  a  layer  of  fresh  fish,  cod,  or 
haddock ;  then  a  layer  of  split  crackers,  sliced  onions,  and  raw 
potatoes  sliced  very  thin ;  strew  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  this 
layer;  then  put  in  more  pork  and  fish,  crackers,  onions,  and  pota- 
toes, and  so  on,  until  the  ingredients  are  exhausted ;  over  this 
mixture  pcur  a  bowl  of  liquid,  composed  of  two  table-spoons  of 
flour,  mixed  smooth  with  milk  and  water ;  add  milk  and  water  to 
the  flour  until  there  is  sufficient  to  just  cover  the  contents  of  the 
pot ;  cover  down  tight,  and  cook  slowly  two  or  three  hours. 

FISH   CHOWDER. 

Pare,  and  cut  Into  slices,  seven  or  eight  potatoes,  and  put  them 
m  a  basin  of  cold  water;  cut  a  fresh  cod  into  slices,  then  fry  a 


FISH.  73 

few  slices  of  fat  salt  pork ;  lay  the  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  stew 
kettle ;  place  two  or  three  slices  of  fish  on  it,  then  a  layer  of  split 
crackers,  then  some  potatoes,  and  so  on,  with  alternate  layers, 
antJl  the  kettle  is  full ;  put  in  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  a 
quart  of  water ;  mix  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  pour  in,  after  it  begins  to  stew.  Cover  very  tight,  and 
stew  three  hours. 

FISH   CAKES. 

Mix  together  a  pound  and  a  half  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  pound 
of  cold  boiled  fish,  either  salt  or  fresh  ;  add  a  little  milk  and  butter, 
one  egg  if  desired ;  pepper,  onions,  and  a  httle  chopped  thyme, 
and  salt  if  the  fish  requires  it ;  sprinkle  on  a  little  flour,  and  fry 
them  a  light  brown  in  small,  thick  cakes. 

STEWED   SALT   COD. 

Soak  and  scald  the  fish  until  sufficiently  freshened ;  pick  it  into 
tfhreds,  and  stew  it  with  milk  to  moisten  it,  a  little  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  gently  a  few  minutes,  and  servo 
hot. 

CAPE  COD   CHOWDER. 

Fry  some  slices  of  sweet,  salt  pork  till  they  are  crisp ;  pour  oflT 
part  of  the  fat ;  take  out  the  rashers  and  set  them  aside,  where 
they  will  keep  hot.  Put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes  first,  with  a  little 
onion,  then  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  butter  crackers,  then  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  a  little  more  fat,  more  potatoes,  more  onion,  more 
pepper,  more  butter  crackers,  more  fish,  and  so  on  until  the  ket- 
tle is  two  thirds  full ;  then  put  on  top  whatever  fat  may  be  left ; 
fill  up  with  water,  cover  close,  and  let  it  cook  an  hour  or  an  hour 
and  a  half,  according  to  quantity.  A  little  salt  may  be  required. 
Serve  with  the  rashers  placed  round  the  dish  on  toast  and  pickle. 

CLAM   CHOWDER. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  they  require  a  great  deal 
of  pork,  and  be  careful  to  get  soft  shell  clams. 

SALT   CODFISH    AND   POTATOES. 

8oak  a  thick  piece  of  fish  over  night,  pour  out  the  water  and 
4 


74  FISH. 

cover  it  with  fresh,  lukewarm  water,  and  let  it  stand  a  shovt  fime, 
then  put  it  in  lukewarm  water  over  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer,  but 
not  boil,  for  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours,  until  it  is  done ;  re- 
move the  skin ;  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  egg  sauce,  with  whole 
boiled  potatoes  to  be  mashed  or  cut  by  each  person  with  the  fish, 
on  their  own  plate.  Serve  also,  if  convenient,  cucumbers  in  vin- 
egar, pickles  or  nasturtiums.  The  fish  can  be  garnished  with  hard 
boiled  eggs.  The  cold  fish  left,  will  make  a  fine  hash,  or  may  be 
prepared  in  fish  cakes. 


SHELL  FISH,  EELS,  Etc. 


OYSTERS   ETIQUETTE. 


Procure  two  dozen  oysters.  Have  them  opened,  and  throw 
them  into  a  clean  basin  or  soup  plate.  Take  a  small  bunch  of 
parsley,  chopped  quite  small,  a  little  raw  lemon  rind  ditto,  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  and  the  crumb  of  a  stale  French  roll,  also  grated. 
Let  the  latter  be  well  mixed  together,  adding  one  drachm  of  cay- 
enne pepper.  Plave  at  hand  the  yolks  of  three  fresh  eggs,  beaten 
up  into  a  fluid ;  dip  the  oysters  separately  into  the  eggs,  and  roll 
them  in  the  crumb  of  the  loaf  until  they  are  all  encased  in  a  bread 
coating  or  covering.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter  into 
the  oven,  with  a  brisk  fire,  until  the  former  is  fully  melted,  arranging 
your  oysters  on  the  tray  of  the  oven  at  your  convenience.  Keep 
the  oysters  continually  turned  until  they  assume  a  perfectly  brown, 
crusty  appearance.  When  fully  baked,  serve  them  up  with  a 
plate  of  bread  and  butter,  cut  thin,  and  use  salt  at  discretion.  A 
stick  of  celery  ea£en  with  them,  adds  greatly  to  the  relish  which  the 
fish  impart  when  served  in  this  way. 

STEWED    OYSTERS. 

Boil  up  the  oysters  In  their  own  liquor,  with  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  a 
pint  or  more  of  rich  boiled  milk ,  the  quantity  according  to  the 
number  of  oysters.  Pour  it  hot  into  the  soup  tureen,  and  as  the 
oysters  come  to  a  boil,  skim  them,  let  them  boil  up  once,  and  then 
.pour  them  into  the  milk. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Wash  out  of  the  liquor  two  quarts  of  oysters ;  pound  very  fine 
eight  soft  crackers,  or  grate  a  stale  loaf  of  bread ;  butter  a  deep 


76  SHELL   FISH,   EELS,   EXd 

dish,  sprinkle  in  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  a  little 
mace,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter ;  another  layer  of  crumbs,  an- 
other of  oysters,  then  seasoning  as  before,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  filled ;  cover  the  dish  over  with  bread  crumbs,  seasoning  as 
before  ;  turn  over  it  a  cup  of  the  oyster  liquor.  Set  It  in  the  oven 
for  thirty  or  forty  minutes  to  brown.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to 
prepare  oysters  for  a  family  dinner. 

FRIED    OYSTERS. 

Select  fine,  large  oysters,  dry  them  out  of  their  own  liquor. 
Have  ready  a  plate  of  egg,  and  a  plate  of  bread  crumbs.  Let 
them  lay  in  the  egg  a  few  minutes,  and  then  roll  them  in  the 
bread  crumbs,  allowing  them  to  remain  in  these  also,  for  a  minute 
or  two ;  this  will  make  them  adhere,  and  not  come  off  as  a  skin, 
when  in  the  pan.  Fry  in  half  butter  and  half  lard,  in  order  to 
give  them  a  rich  brown.  Make  it  very  hot  before  putting  the  oys- 
ters in. 

OYSTER   PIES. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  cover  it  with  pulf  paste,  lay  an  extra  layer 
around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  nicely. 
When  done,  fill  the  pie  with  oysters ;  season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust 
of  puff  paste  ;  bake  quickly ;  when  the  top  crust  is  done,  the  oys- 
ters should  be.      Serve  immediately. 

OYSTER   PATTIES. 

Beard  the  oysters,  and,  If  large,  halve  them;  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  finely  shred 
lemon  rind,  and  a  little  white  pepper,  and  milk,  and  a  portion  of 
the  liquor  from  the  fish ;  stir  all  well  together,  let  It  simmer  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  put  it  in  your  patty  pans,  which  should  be  al- 
ready prepared  with  a  puff  paste  in  the  usual  way.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

OYSTER   LOAVES. 

Cut  out  a  piece  of  the  size  of  a  quarter  of  a  dollar  from  the  top 
of  half  a  dozen  buns,  scoop  out  most  of  the  crumb,  put  a  portion 
of  the  latter  with  a  good  bit  of  butter,  and  about  two  dozen  fresh 


SHELL   FISH,    EELS,   ETC.  77 

oysters  into  a  frying  pan  and  fry  all  together  for  five  minutes,  add 
a  little  cream  or  milk  and  seasoning.  Then  fill  the  loaves,  allow** 
ing  four  oysters  to  each  ;  replace  the  pieces  of  crust  on  the  tops, 
butter  the  outsides,  and  place  them  for  a  short  time  in  an  oven  to 
get  crisp.     Serve  them  hot  or  cold. 

OYSTERS   AND   MACARONI. 

Slowly  stew  some  macaroni  in  good  gravy  till  quite  tender; 
then  lay  it  in  a  pie  dish,  put  in  a  good  layer  of  fresh  oysters,  beard- 
ed ;  add  pepper,  salt,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  cream,  or  olive  oil  if  preferred.  Strew  bread  crumbs  over, 
and  just  brown  it  in  a  tolerably  brisk  oven.  Serve  with  plenty  of 
lemon  juice,  or  a  sauce  piquante, 

OYSTERS  FOR   LUNCH. 

Take  a  fine  oyster,  wrap  it  thinly  with  bacon,  fastening  it  with 
a  little  skewer.  Lay  it  on  a  piece  of  toast,  and  put  into  a  Dutch 
oven  or  a  hot  stove  oven,  a  very  little  time.  Prepare  as  many  in 
this  way  as  desired. 

PICKLED   OYSTERS. — No  1. 

Wash  fifty  large  oysters  in  their  own  liquor ;  wipe  them  dry, 
strain  the  liquor  off,  add  to  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  pepper,  the 
same  of  mace,  the  same  of  salt,  the  same  of  whole  cloves,  and  a 
pint  of  vinegar.  Let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in  the  liquor,  then 
drain  them  off  with  a  skimmer ;  put  them  into  a  jar ;  boil  the  pickle 
up,  skim  it,  and  when  it  is  cold,  pour  over  the  oysters.  They  will 
be  ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours. 

PICKLED    OYSTERS. — No.  2. 

Put  the  oysters,  say  two  hundred,  with  their  juice,  into  a  large 
saucepan  on  the  fire ;  let  them  simmer,  but  not  boil,  until  the  edges 
curl,  and  they  become  solid,  but  not  shriveled.  Be  careful  about 
this.  Strain  off  the  juice,  and  wipe  the  oysters  with  a  nice,  clean 
cloth.  Let  the  juice  settle,  then  pour  off  about  a  quart,  leaving 
the  sediment  undisturbed ;  to  this  clear  juice  add  one  pint  white 
wine,  or  other  vinegar,  a  little  mace,  two  dozen  cloves,  and  a 
handful  of  black  peppers.     Heat  it  over  the  fire,  but  don't  let  it 


78  '        SHELL    FISH,    EELS,    ETC. 

boil;   pour  it  while  hot,  over  the  oy^-ters.     Put  them  in  a  stone 
jar,  and  in  two  days  they  will  be  very  nice  for  use. 

STEWED   MUSCLES, 

Open  the  muscles  in  their  own  li(iuor.  When  ready  for  use 
drain  off  the  liquor  and  wasli  them  in  clear  water.  Then  add  *o 
the  liquor,  or  as  much  of  it  as  is  needed,  an  equal  amount  of  water 
and  of  white  wine,  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  little  whole  pepper ;  boil 
them,  and  after  awhile  drop  in  the  muscles,  letting  them  just  boil 
up,  and  thicken  them  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour.  They  can 
be  served  with  sippets  of  bread  and  the  liquor. 

FRIED  EELS. 

After  the  eels  have  been  skinned  and  cleaned,  split  them  open 
and  cut  them  in  short  pieces.  Then  make  a  pickle  of  vinegar, 
lemon  juice,  sliced  onion,  salt  and  pepper ;  place  the  eels  in  it  and 
let  them  lie  two  or  three  hours.  Roll  them  in  flour  and  fry  in  lard 
or  clarified  butter.  Place  them  on  the  table  dry,  with  fried  pars- 
ley, using  plain  butter  for  saore. 

SPATCHED    EELS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  eels,  scour  their  skins  with  sand  and  salt, 
wipe  them  dry  with  flannel,  gut  them,  cut  them  into  short  pieces, 
saturate  them  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  eggy  and  then  roll  into  a 
plate  containing  crumbs  of  the  inside  of  stale  bread,  chopped 
parsley,  a  sprig  of  sweet  marjoram,  a  sprig  of  bruised  anchovy,  half 
a  nutmeg  grated,  and  some  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  all  mixed. 
When  well  rubbed  in  these,  baste  them  before  a  clear  bright  fire, 
with  plenty  of  butter,  until  they  are  covered  with  a  brown  crust. 
Serve  them  with  plain  or  melted  butter  for  sauce. 

COLLARED    EELS. 

Select  a  large  eel,  gut  it  and  bone  it  without  skinning  it,  and 
rub  the  inside  with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  allspice,  powdered  cloves, 
chopped  sage.  Parsley,  thyme,  savory  and  knotted  marjoram 
also  improve  the  taste.  Roll  it  tight,  tie  it,  and  boil  it  well  in  salt 
water.     Then  add  vinegar,  and  when  cold  keep  it  in  pickle. 


SHELL   FISH,   EELS,   ETC.  79 


STEWED   EELS. 

Wash  the  eels  well,  and  cut  into  pieces  two  or  three  Inches  long. 
Place  them  in  the  pan  with  an  onion,  cloves,  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  some  whole  pepper  in  a  muslin  rag,  and 
add  enough  water  for  sauce.  Let  them  stew  softly,  and  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  When 
they  are  tender,  take  out  the  onion,  cloves,  herbs,  mace,  and  pep- 
per, put  in  sufficient  salt  to  season,  and  serve  it  with  the  sauce. 

BOILED   EELS. 

Boil  them  in  a  little  water  with  some  parsley  until  tender,  sea- 
son them  properly,  and  serve  them  with  the  liquor  and  the  parsley. 
Use  chopped  parsley  and  butter  for  sauce. 

EEL  PIE. 

Cut  up  the  eels  in  one  or  two  inch  lengths,  line  the  dish  with 
potato  paste,  such  as  used  for  meat  pies ;  put  in  the  eels,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and  a  little  butter.  Pour  over  a  little 
stock,  or  a  few  spoonsful  of  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Cover  with  potato  paste,  and  bake  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  This  is  for  family  use  ;  if  company  is  expect- 
ed, a  richer  paste  may  be  used. 

LOBSTERS. 

To  choose  lobsters  that  are  boiled,  select  those  that  are  heaviest, 
and  of  a  middling  size  ;  if  they  are  fresh  the  tail  will  flap  back  with 
a  springy  motion,  when  raised  up. 

TO   BOIL  A   FRESH   LOBSTER. 

Put  it  into  a  fish  kettle  of  boiling  water,  into  which  a  handful 
of  salt  has  been  thrown ;  boil  it  briskly  for  half  an  hour,  then  wipe 
off  the  skum,  and  rub  over  it  a  little  sweet  oil.  When  cold,  break 
off  the  claws,  and  crack  the  shell,  but  do  not  disturb  the  meat; 
set  the  body  upright  in  the  dish,  with  the  claws  and  tail  around  it 

MRS.    MAJOR   D.'s   LOBSTER   SALAD. 

Boil  the  lobster  about  half  an  hour.     When  it  is  cold,  take  it 


80  SHELL    FISH,    EELS,    ETC. 

from  the  shell,  being  careful  to  take  out  the  vein  in  the  back.  To 
six  lbs  of  lobster,  take  two  heads  of  salad,  one  cup  of  melted 
butter ;  tvvo  tabk-spoons  of  mustard,  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  these  together,  and  spread  on  a 
flat  dish.  Then  beat  six  eggs,  and  mix  with  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar. Put  this  on  the  stove  to  thicken,  stirring  constantly ;  when 
cold  spread  it  over  the  lobster. 
For  another  receipt,  see  **  Salads.'' 

CRABS   AND   CRAYFISH. 

These  are  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  lobsters. 

LOBSTER   SAUCE. 

INIash  the  fresh  eggs  of  a  hen  lobster ;  strain,  and  reserve ;  di- 
vide the  flesh  into  small  pieces,  dust  it  with  flour  to  prevent  it  ad- 
hering together,  and  put  it  into  a  white  sauce,  allowing  it  to  simmer 
for  a  minute,  before  putting  in  the  eggs ;  when  these  have  been 
added,  it  will  assume  a  brilliant  red,  and  should  be  removed  from 
the  fire  instantly,  before  it  has  time  to  darken.  Such  flavor  as 
anchovy,  or  lemon,  may  be  added  at  the  table. 

CRAB  AND  LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 

Take  out  the  meat  of  either  a  large  lobster,  or  crab,  mince  it, 
and  add  two  ounces  of  butter  browned  with  two  spoonfiils  of  flour, 
and  seasoned  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne ;  add  again 
about  half  a  pint  of  strong  stock,  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire 
until  quite  hot,  lay  it  in  separate  table-spoonsful  on  a  large  dish. 
When  they  are  cold,  form  them  into  the  shape  of  cutlets,  brush 
them  over  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  dip  them  into  grated 
bread  crumbs,  fry  them  of  a  light  brown  color  in  clarified  beef  drip- 
ping, and  place  them  round  a  dish,  with  a  little  fried  parsley  in  the 
centre. 

LOBSTER  BALLS. 

Mince  the  meat  with  the  coral,  season,  make  it  in  balls  mixed 
with  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  dip  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
and  flour  if  desired,  and  fry  them  brown  in  hot  lard;  for  lobster 
patties,  place  minced  lobster  in  the  shell  in  puff*  paste,  and  bake. 


SHELL    FISH,   EELS,    ETC.  81 


LOBSTER   CURRY. 

Put  the  meat  of  a  large  lobster  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  large  cup  of  veal  stock  or  gravy,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
corn  starch,  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  milk,  or  cream.  Add  salt, 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  curry  powder,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  simmer  for  an  hour,  and  serve. 


MUSH1100M8. 


HOW   TO   KNOW   MUSHROOMS. 

To  know  tlie  mushroom  from  the  poisonous  toadstool,  observe 
the  mushroom  has  no  bad  smell,  that  its  top  skin  will  readily  peel 
off;  there  is  a  thick  meat  between  the  skin  and  the  red  gills  or 
plates ;  the  gills  are  of  a  pinkish  or  rosy  hue,  though  turning 
brownish  by  age,  but  are  never  of  the  lurid  brown  of  the  toad- 
stool ;  when  sprinkled  with  salt  and  allowed  to  stand,  the  mush- 
room gives  out  juice,  the  toadstool  becomes  dry  and  leathery. 

MUSHROOM   FRICASSEE. 

Put  a  quart  of  fresh  mushrooms,  cleaned,  into  a  saucepan,  with 
three  spoonsful  of  water,  three  of  milk,  and  a  little  salt,  and  set 
them  on  a  quick  fire.  Let  them  boil  up  three  times,  after  which 
take  them  off  and  mix  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Put  them  into  the 
saucepan,  shaking  it  well  occasionally,  and  when  the  liquor  is  thick, 
stirring  them  carefully  in  the  saucepan  with  a  spoon,  all  the  time, 
and  seeing  that  they  do  not  curdle. 

MUSHROOM   POWDER. 

Wash  half  a  peck  of  large  mushrooms  quite  clean  from  grit, 
and  cut  off  the  stalks.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  without  water, 
containing  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  two  spoonsful  of  pound- 
ed pepper,  two  onions  stuck  with  cloves,  a  handful  of  salt,  some 
allspice  and  nutmeg,  if  liked,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 
Let  this  stew  till  the  liquor  is  dried  up,  then  place  them  on  sieves 
until  they  are  sufficiently  dry  to  be  beaten  to  a  powder.  Bottle 
this  and  closely  cork  it.     To  give  a  good  flavor  to  soup  or  gravy, 


MUSH7.00MS.  83 

a  tea-spoonful  of  the  powder  must  be  added  a  minute  or  two  before 
it  IS  taken  from  the  fire. 

MUSHROOM   POWDER. — 2. 

Wipe  the  mushrooms  clean  and  pare  the  skin  from  the  large 
ones.  Put  them  on  paper,  and  place  them  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry. 
Lay  them  before  the  fire  until  crisp,  then  grind  and  sill  them 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  the  powder  in  small  closely  corked 
bottles. 

MUSHROOM   LOAVES. 

Well  wash  some  small  button  mushrooms,  such  as  are  generally 
used  for  pickling,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  very  little 
water.  Add  to  them  a  small  quantity  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  some  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  then  boil  up  all  together 
again.  Cut  oiF  a  piece  from  the  end  of  some  rolls,  scoop  out  the 
crumb ;  in  its  place  put  the  prepared  mushrooms,  and  replace  the 
end  of  each  roll. 

MUSHROOM   TOAST. 

Kemove  the  stems,  and  red  inside,  and  skins,  from  a  pint  of 
freshly  gathered  mushrooms.  Dissolve  a  little  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  throw  in  the  mushrooms,  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  and 
toss  them  over  the  fire  for  about  ten  minutes ;  add  a  tea-spoonful 
of  flour,  and  stir  until  all  is  slightly  browned.  Cut  a  crust  about 
an  inch  thick  from  the  under  part  of  a  loaf:  scoop  it  out  in  the 
centre ;  butter  it,  and  boil  it  over  a  brisk  fire ;  then  place  it  upon 
a  hot  dish  before  the  fire.  Pour  in  by  degrees  a  tea-cupful  of 
cream  or  new  milk  to  the  mushrooms ;  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of 
catsup  ;  stew  gently  for  two  minutes,  and  pour  them  into  the  crust. 
Servo  hot. 

STEWED   MUSHROOMS. 

Choose  large  button  mushrooms,  wipe  them  with  a  wet  flannel, 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water.  Let  them  stew 
gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  work 
a  little  flour  and  butter  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream.  Let  it  boil 
for  five  minutes,  and  before  dishing  it  up,  add  two  large  table- 


84  MUSHROOMS. 

spoonsful  of  cream  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg.  Shake  the 
sauce-pan  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  so,  to  warm  the  contents, 
but  do  not  allow  them  to  boil,  for  fear  they  might  curdle.  Put 
some  sippets  around  the  inside  of  the  dish,  and  serve  hot.  fFor 
pickled  mushrooms,  see  Pickles.^ 


FOWLS  AND  GAME. 


ROAST  TURKEY. 

Have  a  stuffing  prepared  of  bread  crumbs,  sausage  meat,  or 
sweet  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  thyme,  summer  savory,  and  one 
onion ;  with  pepper,  and  salt  in  about  equal  proportions.  If  the 
liver  and  heart  are  not  used  with  the  gizzard,  to  make  the  gravy, 
they  also  may  be  chopped,  and  mixed  with  the  stuffing.  Fill  the 
body,  sew  up  the  opening,  truss  it,  and  if  you  choose,  place  a  ring 
of  sausages  round  the  neck  of  the  turkey.  Put  in  the  pan  with  a 
cup  of  hot  water;  roast  slowly  at  first,  and  baste  frequently;  if 
there  is  danger  of  scorching,  cover  the  breast  with  white  paper. 
It  will  require,  if  of  good  size,  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  to 
roast ;  and  should  be  served  with  a  rich  brown  gravy,  and  with  the 
sausages  browned  and  lying  on  the  breast.  If  sausages  are  not 
liked,  thin  slices  of  sweet  salt  pork  should  be  laid  over  the  breast, 
and  round  the  neck. 

BOILED   FOWL. 

Boil  the  liver,  gizzard,  heart  and  lower  part  of  the  legs,  in  a  very 
little  water,  chop  them  fine,  mix  them  with  drawn  butter  and 
bread  crumbs,  and  season  with  salt,  summer  savory,  and  a  little 
pepper.  Stuff  the  fowl  with  this ;  put  it  in  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it  well,  and  stew  it  gently  until  tender ;   serve  with  drawn  butter. 

ROAST    DUCKS. 

Clean  and  truss  them  nicely,  and  fill  their  bodies  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  half  mashed  potatoes,  and  half  sage,  and  onions,  well 


86  FOWLS    AND    GAME. 

seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Baste  them  with  slices  of  sweet 
lat  pork  in  the  pan,  and  baste  frequently.  Make  a  rich  gravy, 
into  which  put  a  table-spoonsful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce. 

For  a  change  one  of  a  pair  of  ducks  may  be  stuffed  with  prunes. 

ROAST   FOWL. 

The  fowl  being  drawn,  and  prepared,  fill  the  body  with  a  dress- 
ing of  bread  and  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  summer 
savory ;  sew  up  the  opening,  truss  it,  oil  it  with  butter,  roast  it 
rather  fast  without  scorching,  the  first  half  hour,  heating  all  sides 
evenly ;  baste  it  all  over  every  five  minutes,  and  after  that,  roast 
rather  slowly  three  quarters  of  an  hour  or  more,  until  the  fowl  is 
done  through.  If  not  sufficiently  browned,  wet  it  over  with  a  little 
yolk  of  egg,  sprinkle  it  with  flour,  and  let  it  stand  a  little  longer, 
till  browned  evenly. 

BOILED   FOWL. 

Divide  the  fowl  at  the  back,  lay  the  sides  open,  and  skewer  the 
wings  as  for  roasting.  Boil  over  a  clear  fire,  seasoning  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  butter.     Serve  them  immediately,  on  a  hot  dish. 

MR.    DEMOREST^S   CHICKEN   FRICASSEE. 

Prepare  a  couple  of  nice  plump  chickens;  joint  them,  dividing 
the  wings,  side,  breast,  and  backbones,  and  let  them  lie  in  clear 
water  half  an  hour ;  remove  them  then  to  a  stew-pan,  with  half  a 
pound  of  good,  sweet  salt  pork  cut  up  in  pieces  ;  barely  cover  with 
water,  and  simmer  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  range  for  three 
hours ;  when  sufficiently  tender,  take  out  the  chicken,  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  smoothly  v/itli  cold  milk,  and  add  a  little  fine 
dried  or  chopped  parsley,  sage,  and  thyme,  or  sunnner  savory,  and 
stir  gradually  into  the  li(j[uor ;  keep  stirring  till  it  boils ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  and  then  put  back  the  chicken  and 
let  it  boil  up  for  a  few  moments  in  the  gravy ;  garnish  with  the 
green  tops  of  celery. 

BOILED   G008E. 

Dress  and  singe  it,  put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  it  with  boiling 


FOWLS    AND    GAME.  87 

milk  and  leave  It  all  night.  In  the  morning  wash  off  the  milk  and 
put  the  goose  into  cold  water  on  the  fire ;  when  boIHng  hot  take  it 
off,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth.  This  process 
takes  out  the  taste  of  oil.  Fill  the  body  with  a  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  two  chopped  onions 
if  relished,  and  a  little  sage,  and  close  it.  Put  it  into  cold  watei 
and  boil  gently  until  tender,  about  an  hour.  Serve  with  giblet 
sauce,  and  with  pickles,  or  acid  jellies.  For  vegetables  have  beets, 
turnips  and  cauliflower. 

ROAST   GOOSE. 

Make  a  dressing  of  two  ounces  of  onion,  an  ounce  of  green 
sage  chopped  fine,  a  coffee  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  pepper, 
and  salt;  do  not  quite  fill  the  goose,  but  leave  room  to  swell. 
The  yolks  of  two  eggs  can  be  added  to  the  dressing,  if  desired. 
Roast  two  hours  or  less,  and  serve  with  gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

DUCK,  WITH   GREEN   PEAS. 

Roast  a  duck  until  about  half  done.  Place  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and  a  very  little  sage ;  cover  it  close, 
and  let  the  duck  continue  to  simmer  in  the  pan,  for  half  an  hour; 
then  put  in  a  pint  of  boiled  green  peas ;  the  peas  are  put  in  the 
pan  to  thicken  the  gravy.  Place  the  duck  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
gravy  and  peas  over  it. 

NEW  YORK   MOCK   DUCK. 

Procure  a  good  rump  steak,  fill  it  with  duck  stuffing,  bread,  a 
little  sweet  salt  pork,  sage,  chopped  onions,  and  pepper,  and  salt ; 
roll  it  up,  skewer  the  ends  tight ;  tie  a  string  round  the  middle,  and 
simmer  with  a  little  stock,  in  a  covered  pan,  for  two  hours  ;  take  it 
out,  put  in  the  oven,  and  bake  for  another  hour  without  cover. 

TURKEY   STEWED   WITH    CELERY. 

Choose  a  fine  hen-turkey,  and  stuff  it  with  some  force  meat  aa 
for  veal,  viz :  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  the  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  savory  herbs,  minced  fine, 
salt  and  pepper,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
All  these  ingredients  to  be  well  mixed  together.     Skewer  the 


88  FOWLS    AND    GAME. 

turke}  as  for  boiling,  and  put  it  into  a  large  sauce-pan  filled  with 
water,  and  let  it  boil  until  tender.  Take  up  the  turkey  and  put  it 
into  another  sauce-pan,  with  sufficient  of  the  water  in  which  it  has 
been  boiled,  to  keep  it  hot.  Wash  well  about  four  good  sized 
heads  of  celery,  put  these  into  the  sauce-pan  with  the  rest  of  the 
water  in  which  the  turkey  has  been  boiled,  and  stew  them  until 
tender.  Take  them  out  and  put  in  the  turkey,  breast  downward, 
and  let  it  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  place  it  on  a  hot  dish  be- 
fore the  fire,  thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  and  flour,  and  a  break- 
fast-cup of  cream ;  put  it  in  the  celery  to  warm,  and  pour  the 
sauce  and  celery  hot  over  the  turkey. 

STEWED   CHICKEN. 

Divide  a  chicken  into  pieces  by  the  joints,  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  salt,  pepper,  some  parsley,  and  thyme ;  pour  in  a  quart 
of  water,  with  a  piece  of  butter ;  and  when  it  has  stewed  an  hour 
and  a  half,  take  the  chicken  out  of  the  pan.  If  there  is  no  gravy, 
put  in  another  piece  of  butter,  add  some  water,  and  fiour,  and  let 
it  boil  a  few  minutes.  When  done,  it  should  be  not  quite  as  thick 
as  drawn  butter. 

COLD   CHICKEN   FRI^D. 

Place  the  cold  chicken,  divided  into  small  joints,  into  a  deep 
dish,  and  cover  then  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  melted  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  chopped  parsley  and  onion.  Let  the 
meat  soak  three  or  four  hours  in  this,  turning  it  once  in  a  while. 
Then  take  them  out,  sprinkle  flour  over  them,  and  fry  them. 
When  done,  pile  them  high  on  a  dish,  and  pour  a  good  gravy  sauce, 
seasoned  and  flavored  with  sweet  herbs ,  round  them. 

VOL-AU-VENT   OF   CHICKEN. 

Make  a  case  of  pufF  paste,  and  fill  it,  when  baked,  with  minced 
chicken,  prepared  as  follows.  Take  the  meat  of  a  cold  chicken, 
and  mince  it  small.  Take  half  a  pint  of  stock,  thicken  it  with  a 
little  flour,  flavor  with  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  let  it  boil  well ;  then 
add  two  or  three  mushrooms  chopped  small,  a  teacupful  of  milk, 
and  the  minced  chicken.  As  soon  as  the  mushrooms  are  cooked 
the  mince  is  done.     This  may  be  served  on  a  dish  alone.     Or  put 


FOMTLS    AND    GAME.  89 

into  vol-au-vent  cases,  and  ornamented   with  a  few  button  mush- 
rooms, stewed  in  white  sauce,  on  the  top. 

CHICKEN  WITH  CHEESE.   (A  French  dish). 

Braise  a  couple  of  chickens,  and  wh^n  nearly  done,  add  to 
them  some  good  stock,  vegetables,  white  wine  and  butter,  season- 
ing according  to  taste.  When  done,  strain  some  of  the  liquor  into 
a  dish,  and  grate  into  it  some  parmesan  cheese  ;  place  the  chickens 
in  this,  pour  over  them  the  remainder  of  the  gravy,  grate  mor« 
parmesan  over  them,  and  bake  the  whole. 

CHICKEN     PUFFS. 

Mince  up  together  the  breast  of  a  chicken,  some  lean  ham,  hall 
an  anchovy,  a  little  parsley,  some  shallot  and  lemon  peel,  and  sea- 
son these  with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  beaten  mace.  Let  this 
be  on  the  fire  for  a  few  moments,  in  a  little  good  white  sauce. 
Cut  some  thinly  rolled  out  puff  paste  into  squares,  putting  on  each 
some  of  the  mince ;  turn  the  paste  over,  fry  them  in  boiling  lard, 
and  serve  them.     These  puffs  are  very  good  cold. 

CHICKEN    LOAF. 

Bone  a  chicken  carefully,  and  fill  it  with  chopped  sweetbread 
well  seasoned ;  make  it  as  nearly  as  possible  into  its  original  form, 
tie  it  up  in  bacon,  and  having  wrapped  a  cloth  round  it,  boil  it  in 
some  white  wine,  good  stock,  and  sweet  herbs.  When  done,  untie 
it,  use  the  bacon  as  garnish,  cut  in  nan*ow  strips,  and  serve  up  with 
some  rich  sauce. 

CHICKEN   POT   PIE. 

Divide  the  chicken  into  pieces  at  the  joints  ;  boil  until  part  done, 
or  about  twenty  minutes,  then  take  it  out.  Fry  two  or  three  slices 
of  fat  salt  pork,  and  put  in  the  bottom,  then  place  the  chicken  on 
it  with  three  pints  of  water,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  pepper,  and  cover  over  the  top  with  a  light  crust,  made  tho 
saiae  as  for  biscuit.     Cook  one  hour. 

MRS.  MAJOR  D.'S  CHICKEN  PIE,  FLAVORED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Cut  up  a  good  sized  chicken  and  stew  until  tender ;  meanwhile 


90  •        FOWLS    AND    GAME. 

seasoning  it.  After  lining  the  sides  of  your  pan  with  paste,  put 
in  it  a  quart  of  oysters,  seasoning  them.  Then  throw  in  the 
cliicken.  Take  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was  stewed,  and 
thicken  it  with  flour.  Fill  tlie  pan  with  the  thickened  liquor,  cover 
it  all  with  paste ;  ornament  with  pastry,  and  bake  till  the  crust  is 
a  nice  browri;  or  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

PLAIN   CHICKEN   PIE. 

Take  a  chicken  and  cut  it  in  pieces.  Stew  it  in  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  When  tender,  line  a  deep  dish  with  pie  crust,  take  the 
chicken  out  of  the  liquor,  put  it  in  the  dish  with  three  or  four  slices 
of  pork,  and  two  ounces  of  butter,  the  latter  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
add  some  of  the  liquor,  flavor  with  mushroom  catsup,  and  thicken 
with  flour.  Cover  it  with  pie  crust,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven 
about  an  hour. 

THANKSGIVING   CHICKEN   PIE. 

Cut  two  chickens  into  small  members  as  for  fricassee ;  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pie-dish  with  layers  of  veal  and  ham  placed  alter- 
nately ;  season  with  chopped  mushrooms  and  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt,  then  add  a  little  gravy ;  next  place  in  the  dish  the  pieces  of 
chicken  in  neat  order,  and  round  these  put  slices  of  hard  boiled 
egg  in  each  cavity ;  repeat  the  seasoning  and  the  sauce,  lay  a  few 
thin  slices  of  dressed  ham  neatly  trimmed,  on  the  top ;  cover  the 
pie  with  puff-paste,  ornament  this  with  pieces  of  the  same  cut  into 
the  form  of  leaves,  &c. ;  egg  the  pie  over  with  a  paste-brush,  and 
bake  it  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

AUNT   ABBY'S   CHICKEN  PIE. 

Joint  two  plump,  tender  chickens,  stew  them  half  an  hour  m 
barely  enough  water  to  cover  them,  take  them  from  the  liquor,  and 
lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  with  some  thin  slices  of  very  sweet,  nice 
salt  pork,  and  a  few  halves  of  small  butter  crackers.  Season  tlie 
liquor  highly,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Have  ready  a  nice  top 
crust,  and  put  a  rim  of  it  first  round  the  edge  of  the  dith,  wet  i 
Blight!/,  so  that  the  other  edge  will  stick  close,  and  ornament  the 
top  with  pastry. 

For  family  use,  or  to  eat  cold,  for  breakfast,  or  for  lunch,  put  a 


FOWLS    AND    GAME.  91 

layer  of  cooked  potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish.     The  gravy 
will  form  a  thick  jelly  round  them.     Omit  the  crackers. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKENS. 

Skin  the  chickens,  which  makes  them  sweeter;  cut  them  open 
on  the  back  and  through  the  breast.  Fry  them  in  butter,  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Cook  them  to  a  nice  brown. 

ROAST   PRAIRIE   CHICKENS. 

When  they  are  nicely  prepared,  fill  them  with  a  stuffing  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  slice  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine ;  sage  and  onion 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  season  sufficiently.  Roast  slowly  for  the 
first  half  hour,  briskly  the  last  half  hour.  Serve  with  mushroom 
sauce. 

STEWED    PRAIRIE    CHICKENS. 

Prepare  the  chickens  the  same  as  for  roasting.  Put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  some  stock  or  water,  and  a  cup  of  cold  gravy,  a  lit- 
tle lemon,  a  clove  or  two,  and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Add  after 
awhile  a  few  spoonsful  of  tomato  sauce.  Stew  slowly  for  a  couple 
of  hours,  serve  with  a  little  tomato  catsup  added  to  the  sauce,  and 
a  light  thickening  of  butter  and  flour. 

DEVILLED   turkey's   LEGS. 

Score  the  legs  of  a  roasted  turkey;  sprinkle  them  with  cayenne, 
black  pepper  and  salt;  boil  them  well,  and  pour  over  them  the 
following  sauce,  quite  hot:  Three  spoonsful  of  gravy,  one  of  but- 
ter rubbed  in  a  little  flour,  one  of  lemon  juice,  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  a  spoonful  of  mus4:ard,  some  vinegar,  two  or  three  chopped 
green  chillis,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  Harvey  sauce. 

ALICE  Carey's  minced   chicken. 

Mince  all  that  is  left  of  cold  roast,  or  boiled  chickens.  Warm 
it  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  gravy  and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom 
sauce.  Pile  it  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  and  place  round  it  alternate- 
ly small  and  very  thin  slices  of  broiled  ham,  and  Doached  eggs  OD 
toast. 


92  FOWLS    AND    GAME. 


HASHED   FOWL. 

Take  tlie  meat  from  a  cold  fowl,  and  cut  it  in  small  pieceflt. 
Put  half  a  pint  of  well-flavored  stock  into  a  stew-pan,  add  a  little 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  and  thicken  with  some  flour  and  butter; 
let  it  boil,  then  put  in  the  pieces  of  fowl  to  warm  ;  after  stewing 
sufficiently,  serve  with  some  poached  eggs  laid  on  the  hash,  with 
a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  centre,  and  garnish  round  the  plate  with 
pieces  of  fried  bread. 

BROILED   PARTRIDGE. 

Split  the  partridge,  wipe  it  inside  and  out,  but  do  not  wash  it ; 
broil  it  delicately  over  a  clear  fire,  sprinkling  it  with  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne ;  rub  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  over  it  the  moment  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire.  Serve  immediately  with  a  sauce  made  of  a 
slice  of  butter,  browned  with  flour ;  a  little  water,  cayenne,  salt, 
and  mushroom  catsup  poured  over  it.  Another  way  is  to  dip  it, 
after  being  dressed,  flattened  and  seasoned,  into  clarified  butter, 
and  then  into  bread  crumbs  ;  broil  gently  twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
and  serve  with  brown  mushroom  sauce. 

PARTRIDGE    SALAD. 

Place  the  remains  of  roast  partridge  in  a  deep  dish,  with  oil, 
tarragon  vinegar,  shallot  minced,  salt  and  pepper.  At  the  time  of 
serving,  place  the  partridge  in  a  dish,  surround  it  with  the  hearts 
of  lettuce  cut  in  halves  or  in  quarters  according  to  the  size ;  garnish 
the  partridge  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  quarters,  minced  gher- 
kins, pickled  onions  and  capers,  and  stir  it  in  thoroughly  with  the 
mixture  remaining  in  the  deep  dish. 

PARTRIDGE   PIE. 

Take  two  brace  of  partridges,  pluck  and  draw  them ;  carve  three 
of  them  into  six  pieces  each,  viz.,  wings,  legs,  breast,  neck  and 
head,  and  back.  One  of  the  birds  should  be  kept  whole,  trussed 
in  the  usual  form.  Let  the  pieces  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  ground  mace,  and  laid  in  a  deep  dish.  Stuff  the  body 
of  the  bird  left  entire,  and  put  it  into  the  middle  of  the  dish,  breast 
upwards.     Pour  over  the  game  half  a  pint  of  cold  strong  beef  gravy 


FOWLS    AND    GAME.  93 

well  strained,  in  which  two  well  roasted  shallots  and  a  few  corns 
of  allspice  have  been  boiled ;  add  the  yolk  of  six  hard  bciled 
eggs,  and  half  a  gill  of  good  catsup.  Cover  your  dish  with  a 
light  puff  paste,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Make  a  fine  puff  paste,  lay  a  border  of  it  around  a  large  dish, 
and  70ver  the  bottom  with  a  veal  cutlet,  or  a  tender  rump  steak 
free  from  fat  and  bone,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  nut- 
meg or  pounded  mace ;  then  prepare  as  many  freshly  killed  young 
pigeons  as  the  dish  will  contain  in  one  layer ;  put  into  each  a  slice  of 
butter  seasoned  with  a  little  cayenne  and  mace  ;  lay  them  into  the 
dish  breast  downwards,  and  between  and  over  them  put  the  yolks  of 
half  dozen  or  more  boiled  eggs  ;  stick  plenty  of  butter  on  them,  sea- 
son the  whole  with  salt  and  spice  ;  pour  in  cold  water  or  veal  broth  for 
the  gravy,  roll  out  the  cover  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  secure 
it  round  the  edge,  ornament  it  and  bake  the  pie  an  hour  or  more. 
The  livers  of  the  birds  may  be  put  in  them,  or  they  may  be  filled 
with  small  mushrooms. 

CROQUETTES    OF   FOWL. 

Mince  very  fine  some  meat  from  a  cold  fowl ;  put  jt  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  stock,  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  a  little  salt,  and  nut- 
meg, and  make  it  of  the  right  thickness  with  flour;  let  \t  boii 
well,  then  pour  it  out  on  a  deep  dish,  and  put  it  aside  to  get  cold 
and  set ;  then  divide  it  into  parts,  form  them  into  small  balls,  or 
egg  shapes ;  roll  each  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  egg  over  with  the 
yolk  of  egg  beaten ;  roll  again  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry,  not  too 
brown.     Serve,  ornamented  with  parsley. 

GAME   PATTIES. 

Make  as  many  patties  of  a  small  size  as  you  require,  of  good 
light  puff  paste  ;  egg  them  over,  and  bake  them  a  nice  light  brown. 
Fill  the  centre  with  minced  venison,  or  hare,  or  a  mince  of  any 
kind  of  game ;  dish  them  on  a  nappy,  and  send  them  to  table 
quite  hot. 

IMITATION   CRAB. 

Mince  the  white  nteat  of  a  roast  or  boiled  fowl  very  fine  with 


94  FOWLS    AND    GAxME. 

the  liver  so  as  to  make  about  six  table-spoonsful  in  all.  To  this 
put  two  table-spoonsful  of  pounded  cheese,  two  moderate  sized 
onions,  four  or  five  green  chillies  (or  if  these  cannot  be  procured, 
some  cayenne  peppers,)  chopped  very  small.  Mix  these  thorough- 
ly together,  and  afterwards  add  one  spoonful  of  anchovy,  and  one 
of  Harvey  sauce,  a  large  spoonful  of  mustard,  two  of  mushroom 
catsup,  black  pepper,  and  salt,  and  three  spoonsful  of  sweet  oil. 
\V(j\\  mix  the  whole.  This  makes  a  nice  relish  to  eat  with  bread 
and  butter. 

SMALL   BIRDS. 

Dress  them  nicely,  split  them  down  the  back  and  open  them  out 
fiat,  cleaning  them  well.  Broil  them  gently  over  a  clear  fire,  sea- 
son them  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  serve  them  on  buttered 
toast  with  pickles. 

ROAST   GROUSE. 

Dress  and  singe  them.  Fill  the  bodies  with  a  stuffing  of  bread 
crumbs,  seasoned  only  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Put  some 
cold  stock  or  gravy  into  the  pan,  and  baste  frequently;  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  will  cook  them.  Serve  with  gravy,  enriched 
with  Harvey,  or  some  other  good  game  sauce,  with  mashed  po- 
tatoes and  jelly. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  ROAST  VEAL,  TURKEY,  ETC. 

Mix  thoroughly  four  ounces  of  the  crumb  of  stale  bread  very 
finely  grated ;  the  grated  rind,  pared  thin,  of  half  a  fresh  lemon ; 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  minced  parsley  and  thyme,  one  part  thyme, 
two  parts  parsley  ;  pepper  or  cayenne  sufficient  to  season.  Add  to 
these  the  unbeaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  two  ounces  of  butter  in 
small  bits ;  work  all  smoothly  together  with  the  fingers.  Other 
savory  herbs  than  parsley  or  thyme  may  be  used  if  preferred,  and 
a  little  minced  onion  may  ht)  added,  if  desired.  The  proportions 
given  here  may  be  increased  vhen  more  is  required.  The  above 
•w'l]].  be  sufficient  for  a  middling  sized  turkey.  Forcemeat  fo? 
Ducks  or  Geese.  Two  parts  of  chopped  onions,  two  parts  of 
bread  crumbs,  two  of  butter,  one  of  pounded  sage,  and  a  seasoning 
of  pepper  and  salt. 


FOWLS    AND    GAME.  95 


VENISON    PASTRY. 

Cut  the  venison  into  pieces ;  line  a  dish  with  pie  crust,  place  a 
layer  of  beef  suet  cut  up  finely,  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then 
put  in  the  venison.  Season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  on  butter, 
cover  it  with  crust  and  bake  it. 

VENISON   PUFFS. 

Shave  some  cold  venison  very  thin,  and  cut  into  small  pieces ;  to 
to  this  add  a  little  currant  jelly  and  some  rich  brown  gravy  well 
mixed.  Roll  out  some  light  puff  paste  very  thin,  cut  it  in  pieces 
and  in  each  piece  put  some  of  the  meat,  and  make  them  into  pujBTs. 
Place  them  all  ready  to  bake,  and  brush  them  over  with  white  of 
egg.     Put  them  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  a  nice  brown  color 

VENISON    STEAK. 

Broil  rare,  and  prepare  a  gravy  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  tea- 
spoon of  flour,  and  some  mushroom  catsup.  Cut  the  steak  up  into 
small  pieces,  and  when  the  gravy  is  hot  put  it  in,  and  cover  tight. 
Set  it  back  from  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
with  toast,  and  jelly. 

STEWED   HARE    OR   RABBIT.  , 

Wash  and  soak  it  thoroughly,  wipe  it  quite  dry,  cut  it  Into  joints, 
flour  and  brown  it  slightly  in  four  or  five  ounces  of  butter,  with 
some  bits  of  lean  ham,  then  pour  on  by  degrees  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  gravy,  and  stew  the  meat  very  gently  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  two 
hours ;  add  salt  if  needed.  When  it  has  stewed  a  half  hour  or 
more,  put  in  half  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  cut  thin ,  and  ten  minutes  before 
serving  stir  in  a  large  dessert-spoonful  of  rice  flour,  mixed  smooth- 
ly with  two  table-spoonsful  of  mushroon  catsup,  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mace  and  less  of  cayenne. 

RABBIT   IN    SLICES. 

Take  a  fresh  rabbit,  cut  it  In  slices,  and  fry  it  brown  with  some 
slices  of  pickled  pork  and  some  onions  chopped  fine.  When  nice 
and  orown,  take  it  out  of  the  frying  pan  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  water  suflacient  to  cover  it ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  thicken 


96  FOWLS    AND    GAME. 

with  some  flour  and  butter ;  and  add  force-meat  balls,  but  be  sure 
not  to  put  the  fat  out  of  the  frying  pan.  Let  the  gravy  be  the 
thickness  of  a  very  rich  cream. 

ROAST   RABBIT. 

Dress  the  rabbit,  parboil  the  liver  with  a  slice  of  fat  ham,  or 
sweet  salt  pork,  and  chop  it  up  fine  with  bread  crumbs,  thyme,  a 
email  onion,  and  pepper  and  salt.  Fill  the  body,  and  sew  it  up. 
Rub  it  over  with  sweet  oil,  or  a  little  butter,  and  put  a  little  butter 
in  the  pan  with  the  water  to  baste  it.  Baste  frequently,  roast  an 
hour  and  a  half,  and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes,  and  black,  or 
red  currant  jelly. 

Hare  is  prepared,  and  roasted  in  precisely  the  same  way. 


MEAT    SAUCES. 


WHITE    SAUCE. 

Boil  well  over  the  fire  half  a  pint  of  milk,  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
stock  of  a  light  color,  season  with  salt,  and  thicken  with  some 
flour  and  butter.  Mix  the  flour  with  milk  instead  of  water,  for 
white  sauce. 

PREAD   SAUCE. — 1. 

Boil  thin  slices  of  white  bread  without  the  crust,  in  milk,  with 
some  whole  white  oepper,  and  a  sUced  onion ;  rub  all  through  a 
coarse  colander,  put  it  back  into  the  stewpan  with  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  a  cup  of  veal  stock  or  gt  avy,  salt  and  a  little  cream,  if  you 
have  it ;  warm,  and  serve  it. 

BREAD    SAUCE. — 2. 

Pour  quite  boiling,  on  half  a  pint  of  the  finest  bread  crumbs,  an 
equal  measure  of  new  milk ;  cover  them  closely  with  a  plate,  and 
let  the  sauce  remain  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes ;  put  it  then  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  small  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  half  as  much  pound- 
ed mace,  a  little  cayenne,  and  about  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter; 
keep  it  stirred  constantly  over  a  clear  fire,  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
mix  it  with  a  cup  of  milk,  give  it  a  boil,  and  serve  it  immediately. 

RICE    SAUCE. 

/*  Soak  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with  onion, 
pepper  etc.,  as  for  bread  sauce.  When  it  is  quite  tender,  remove 
the  spice,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  stewpan,  and  boil  it.  If 
too  thick,  add  a  small  quantity  of  cream  or  milk.  This  is  good 
for  game  or  chicken,  as  a  change  from  bn^ad  sauce. 
5 


98  MEAT   SAUCES. 


WHITE   SAUCE. 

Knead  a  large  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  little  flour,  melt  it  yi 
a  tea-cupful  of  milk ;  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  milk  or  cream,  stir  it  ip.to  the  butter,  and  place  it  over  the  i&re» 
stirring  it  constantly.     Chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

EGG    SAUCE. 

Mince  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  mix  in  white  sauce, 

CAPER   SAUCE. 

Add  one  or  two  spoonsful  of  capers  to  white  sauce. 

OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Boil  up  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  then  beard  them ;  mix  soma 
butter  with  flour,  and  put  into  the  strained  liquor ;  when  it  is  hot, 
stir  the  oysters  into  it ;  add  some  melted  butter,  and  a  little  cay- 
enne pepper;  let  it  boil  up  once;  put  in  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
it  is  ready  for  serving. 

BROWN   ONIOX   SAUCE. — 1. 

Brown  some  sliced  onions,  in  a  stew  pan,  in  a  little  batte^: ;  add 
a  little  good  gravy,  and  stew  them  till  quite  tender.  With  the 
round  steak  of  beef,  this  sauce  is  much  admired. 

TOMATO   SAUCE. — 1. 

Take  about  one  hundred  and  fifty  good  tomatoes,  cut  them  into 
thin  slices,  place  them  in  a  dish  with  a  pound  of  salt  strewn  over 
them,  let  them  remain  in  the  salt  two  days.  Boil  a  quart  of  dis- 
tilled vinegar  with  half  ounce  of  mace,  half  ounce  of  cloves,  half 
ounce  of  ginger  and  mustard  seed,  and  twenty-five  ripe  capsicums, 
or  long  pepper  pods,  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add  the  tomatoes,  hav- 
ing first  poured  away  all  the  water  and  juice  extracted  by  the  salt 
from  them,  and  boil  all  together  for  half  hour  ;  rub  them  through 
a  clean,  fine  sieve,  and  when  cold,  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  If  the 
tomatoes  are  gathered  in  dry  weather,  and  carefully  done,  thi* 
sauce  will  keep  for  two  years. 


MEAT    SAUCBS.  99 


TOMATO    SAUCE. — 2. 

Put  tomatoes  perfectly  ripe,  into  an  earthen  jar,  and  set  into  an 
oven  till  they  are  quite  soft ;  then  separate  the  skins  from  the  pulp, 
and  mix  this  with  capsicum  vinegar  and  a  few  shalots  finely  chop- 
ped, which  will  be  proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  fruit.  Add  pow- 
dered ginger  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Some  white  wine  vinegar  and 
cayenne  may  be  used  instead  of  capsicum  vinegar.  Keep  the 
mixture  in  small  wide-mouth  ed  bottles,  well  corked,  and  in  a  dry, 
Cool  place. 

TOMATO   SAUCE. — 3. 

Remove  the  skin  and  seeds  from  about  a  dozen  tomatoes,  slice 
them  and  put  them  in  the  stew  pan  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
three  pounded  crackers.     Stew  slowly  one  hour. 

HORSERADISH    SAUCE. — 1. 

Wash  a  good  stick  of  horseradish,  scrape  off  the  outside,  then 
grate  to  a  powder.  Then  take  one  table -spoonful  of  the  grated 
horseradisli,  one  salt  spoonful  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  four 
table-spoonsful  of  cream,  and  two  table-spoonsful  of  vinegar,  and 
mix  them  well  together.  Add  the  vinegar  last,  stirring  rapidly  as 
it  is  added. 

HORSERADISH    SAUCE. — 2. 

Stir  together  until  well  mixed  one  dessert  spoon  of  sweet  cream, 
the  same  quantity  of  powdered  mustard,  a  table-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, and  two  table-spoonsful  of  scraped  horseradish,  with  a  little 
salt  to  taste.  Serve  the  sauce  separately  in  a  sauce  tureen.  It 
will  keep  for  two  or  three  days  or  longer  if  olive  oil  is  used  instead 
of  cream, 

CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Wash,  and  pick  over  one  quart  of  cranberries,  put  them  to  stew 
with  a  little  water,  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  in  a  porcelain-lined  sauce- 
pan. Let  them  stew  slowly,  and  closely  covered  for  an  hour,  or 
more.  They  can  then  be  set  away  ready  for  use,  or  they  can  be 
put  into  a  mould  and  turned  out  in  form  the  next  day. 


100  •  MEAT    SAUCES. 

Another,  and  nicer  way  is  to  stew  them  soft,  then  strain  off  the 
skins,  add  pound  of  sugar  to  quart  of  fruit,  and  boil  all  up  togeth- 
er again  for  fifteen  minutes.  This  will  make  a  fine  jelly  for  game, 
if  put  into  a  mould. 

MINT    SAUCE. 

Choose  fresh  and  young  mint,  strip  the  leaves  from  the  stems, 
wash  and  drain,  chop  them  finely,  and  add  two  table-spoonsful 
of  pounded  sugar  to  three  heaped  table-spoonsful  of  mint.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  pour  in  gradually,  six  table-spoonsful  of  good  vin- 
egar.    The  proportions  can  be  varied  according  to  taste. 

CELERY   SAUCE. 

Cut  the  celery  into  inch  lengths,  fry  it  in  butter  until  it  begins  to 
be  tender,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  which  may  be  allowed  to  brown 
a  little,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  broth  or  beef  gravy,  with  a  season- 
ing of  pepper  or  cayenne. 

ASPARAGUS    SAUCE. 

Wash  and  drain  half  inch  lengths  of  asparagus  tops,  about  a  half 
pint  of  them,  throw  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  salt  and  water,  and 
boil  quarter  of  an  hour  or  less  until  tender,  then  turn  them  into  a 
strainer  to  drain.  When  ready  to  serve  put  them  into  thickened 
veal  gravy,  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with  seasoning  of 
salt  and  cayenne ;  or  into  melted  butter  into  which  a  little  lemon 
juice  has  been  squeezed. 

SAUCE   OF   turkey's   EGGS. 

Turkey ''s  eggs  are  superior  to  others  for  sauce.  Boil  three  eggs 
gently  in  plenty  of  water  twenty  minutes.  Break  the  shells  by 
rolling  them  on  the  table ;  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks,  di- 
vide all  the  yolks  into  quarter  inch  dice  pieces,  mince  one  and  a 
half  of  the  whites  rather  small,  mix  them  lightly  and  stir  them  into 
a  pint  of  white  sauce,  and  serve  hot.  The  eggs  of  common  fowl 
may  be  prepared  for  sauce  according  to  these  directions,  using 
four  yolks  and  two  wlutes,  and  boiling  four  or  five  minutes  less. 
The  eggs  of  guinea  fowl  also  make  a  good  sauce  after  ten  minutes 
boilinnr. 


MEAT     SAUCES.  101 


MILD    MUSTARD. 

For  immediate  use  mustard  may  be  mixed  with  milk  to  which  a 
spoonful  of  very  thin  cream  may  be  added. 

FRENCH    BATTER. 

For  frying  vegetables  and  fur  apple,  peach,  or  orange  fritters, 
pour  a  gill  of  boiling  water  on  a  couple  of  ounces  of  bits  of  butter. 
When  dissolved,  add  three  gills  of  cold  water  to  make  it  lukewarm  ; 
mix  in  smoothly  twelve  ounces  of  dry  flour  and  a  small  pinch  of 
salt  if  for  fruit  fritters,  but  more  salt  if  for  meat.  If  it  is  too  thick, 
add  more  water.  Just  before  using,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  solid  froth. 

BERKSHIRE    SAUCE. 

One  full  pint  of  nasturtium  flowers  must  be  placed  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  five  shallots  bruised,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  salt,  and  the 
same  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper.  Upon  these,  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing vinegar  should  be  poured,  and  the  jar  closely  stopped  down 
for  a  month  or  more.  At  the  end  of  this  time  the  licpiid  must  be 
strained,  and  three  ounces  of  soy  added  for  each  pint,  after  which 
the  sauce  may  be  bottled,  and  is  fit  for  use.  This  is  excellent  for 
either  hot  or  cold  meat,  and  easily  made  when  nasturtium  flowers 
are  plentiful. 

A    SAUCE    FOR    MADE    DISHES. 

One  quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  six  table- 
spoonsful  of  walnut  catsup,  two  table-spoonsful  of  soy,  two  cloves 
of  garlic,  and  the  same  quantity  of  shallots  (both  the  garlic  and 
shallots  must  be  well  bruised).  Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  togeth- 
er, bottle  them,  and  keep  the  bottles  closely  corked.  It  will  be  fit 
or  use  in  six  weeks. 

SAUCE   FOR    BOILED    TURKEY    OR   CAPON. 

When  the  turkey  is  plucked  clean,  singed  and  neatly  trussed, 
stutf  it  inside  with  raw  oysters,  adding  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  and 
some  stale  bread  crumbs.  Place  the  turkey  or  capon  in  a  clean 
cloth,  fold  it  up  carefully,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and 


102  MEAT     SAUCES. 

let  it  boll  over  a  moderately  heated  fire  until  it  is  done.  Have  a 
stick  of  white  blanched  celery  at  hand,  and  chop  it  up  very  small, 
place  it  in  a  quart  of  new  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it  boil,  gen- 
tly, with  a  few  black  pepper  corns,  till  the  quantity  is  reduced  to 
one  pint;  keep  stirring  the  esculent  up  with  the  milk  until  it  as- 
sumes the  character  of  a  consistent  pulp.  Thicken  the  whole 
with  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg^  well  beaten  up,  with  half  a  tea-cup 
of  fresh  cream.  Have  upon  the  table  a  sauce  boat  of  strong  veal 
gravy. 

SAUCE   FOR   ROASTED   CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  some  carrots  and  parsnips  into  any  shape  preferred,  and 
let  them  boil  with  some  little  onions  in  a  small  quantity  of  stock. 
Add  mushroom  catsup,  a  little  ham  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  let 
all  stew  in  butter,  with  sweet  herbs,  adding  two  cloves,  some 
thyme  and  a  bay  leaf.  When  these  are  colored,  put  in  some  veal 
gravy.  Let  the  whole  boil  slowly  until  sufficiently  done.  Skim 
it  and  add  it  with  a  little  good  veal  broth  to  the  carrots  and  pars- 
nips. Roast  two  chickens  (nicely  stulfed)  rolled  in  bacon  and 
wrapped  in  pepper,  and  pour  the  mixture  upon  them. 

SAUCE   FOR    BOILED    FISH. 

^  Pick  and  wash  some  fennel,  parsley,  mint,  thyme  and  small 
green  onions,  using  only  a  small  quantity  of  each.  Boil  them 
until  tender  in  a  little  veal  stock ;  after  which  chop  them  up,  add 
to  them  some  fresh  butter,  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  some 
grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt.  Let  it  boil ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  send  it  up  in  a 
sauce  boat. 

FISH    SAUCE   TO   KEEP  A   YEAR. 

Chop  up  forty  anchovies,  bones  and  all,  put  to  tbem  ten  shallots 
cut  small,  a  handful  of  scraped  horseradish,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace,  a  quart  of  white  wine,  a  pint  of  water,  one  lemon  cut  in 
slices,  half  a  pint  of  anchovy  liquor,  a  pint  of  red  wine,  twelve 
cloves,  and  twelve  peppercorns.  Boil  together  until  reduced  to  a 
quart;  strain  it,  put  it  into  a  bottle  and  cork  it  closely.  It  must 
be  kept  in  a  cold,  dry  place.     When  required  for  use,  one  tea- 


MEAT    SAUCES.  103 

spoonful  should  be  heated  and  put  to  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  a 
little  flour. 

SAUCE   FOR    VENISON. 

Two  spoons  of  currant  jelly,  one  stick  of  cinnamon,  one  blade 
of  mace,  grated  white  bread,  ten  table-spoons  of  water,  let  it  stew 
with  a  little  water,  serve  in  the  dish  with  venison  steaks. 

DRAWN   BUTTER.^ 

Rub  two  tea-spoonsful  of  flour  into  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  add  five  table-spoons  of  cold  water ;  set  it  into  boiling  wa- 
ter and  heat  till  it  begins  to  simmer,  then  it  is  done.  For  fish, 
chopped  boiled  eggs  and  capers  can  be  put  in.  For  boiled  fowl, 
oysters  can  be  put  in  while  it  is  melting,  and  cooked  through 
while  it  is  simmering. 

BROWNING  FOR  SAUCES. 

•  Put  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  into  an  iron  saucepan,  melt  it 
over  a  moderate  fire  for  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  it  contin- 
ually until  quite  black ;  but  it  must  become  so  by  degrees,  or  too 
sudden  a  heat  will  make  it  bitter ;  then  add  two  quarts  of  water, 
and  in  ten  minutes  the  sugar  will  be  dissolved.     Bottle  for  use. 

SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  BEAF. 

One  quart  of  grated  horseradish,  two  tea-spoons  black  pepper, 
two  of  mustard,  one  of  allspice,  two  of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  best 
vinegar.     Mix  well,  and  bottle  immediately. 

MUSHROOM   CATSUP. — 1. 

Break  up  the  mushrooms  and  add  to  them  a  little  salt,  a  handful 
to  a  peck,  let  them  lie  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  strain  them 
through  a  coarse  cloth ;  add  to  the  liquor  an  ounce  each  of  cloves, 
black  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper,  and  ginger ;  two  or  three  anchovies, 
and  a  glass  of  port  wine  for  each  quart,  or  in  that  proportion. 
Boil  it  gently  then  until  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  one  half;  take  it 
off,  let  it  cool,  and  bottle  it  air  tight. 

MUSHROOM   CATSUP. — 2. 

Put  in  an  earthen  vessel  layers  of  mushrooms,  and  thin  layers 


104  MEAT     SAUCES. 

of  salt,  and  allow  them  remain  half  a  day,  or  until  the  salt  has  pene- 
trated them  somewhat.  Then  mash  them,  and  keep  them  standing 
another  whole  day,  frequently  stirring  them  up  from  the  bottom. 
To  each  gallon  of  mushrooms  add  an  ounce  of  peppercorns,  an 
ounce  of  cloves,  and  one  of  allspice.  Set  the  jar  in  cold  water, 
and  let  it  come  to  boiling  heat.  Simmer  gently  for  two  hours, 
then  strain,  and  reduce  one  half,  skimming  carefully  as  it  comes 
to  a  boil ;  strain  it  off.  when  it  has  settled,  into  small  bottles  for  use, 
adding  a  teaspoon  of  brandy  to  each  bottle,  and  seal.  Keep  in 
a  dry  place. 

TOMATO    CATSUP. 

One  gallon  skinned  tomatoes,  three  heaping  table-spoonsful  of 
salt,  same  of  black  pepper,  two  of  allspice,  three  of  ground  mus- 
tard, half  a  dozen  pods  of  red  pepper.  Stew  all  slowly  together 
in  a  quart  of  vinegar  for  three  hours ;  strain  the  liquor,  simmer 
down  to  half  a  gallon.     Bottle  hot,  and  cork  tight. 

WALNUT    CATSUP. 

Boil  or  simmer  a  gallon  of  the  expressed  juice  of  walnuts  when 
they  are  tender,  and  skim  it  well ;  then  put  in  two  pounds  of  an- 
chovies, bones  and  liquor,  two  pounds  of  shallots,  one  ounce  each 
of  cloves,  mace,  and  pepper,  and  one  clove  of  garlic.  Let  all 
simmer  till  the  shallots  sink ;  then  put  the  liquor  into  a  pan  till 
cold ;  bottle  and  divide  the  spice  to  each.  Cork  closely,  tie  the 
bladder  over,  and  put  it  in  small  bottles.  It  will  keep  twenty 
years  in  the  greatest  perfection,  but  is  not  fit  for  use  the  first  year. 

VINEGAK    PLANT. 

To  make  vinegar  from  the  vinegar  plant,  pour  one  gallon  of 
boiling  water  on  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  strong,  clean,  brown 
sugar,  keep  stirring  it  until  it  is  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  then  put 
it  into  a  large  pickle  jar,  or  any  other  convenient  vehicle,  and 
place  the  plant  on  it.  If  at  the  end  of  two  or  three  days  the 
plant  does  not  float,  take  it  out,  put  in  a  cork,  and  lay  the  plant 
on  it.  The  vinegar  will  take  making  from  six  weeks  to  three 
months,  and  the  above  will  make  about  three  quarts.  The  jar 
must  be  placed  in  a  warm — not  a  hot  place. 


MEAT     SAUCES.  10£ 


EASY   CIDER    VINEGAR. 


Take  the  water  in  which  dried  apples  have  been  soaked  and 
washed,  strain  it  well  and  add  a  pound  of  sugar. 

VINEGAR   OF   MARJORAM. 

Pick  sweet  marjoram  leaves  before  the  plant  flowers,  wilt  them 
a  little  and  steep  in  strong  vinegar  two  weeks ;  bottle  and  cork 
tightly. 

VINEGAR    FOR   SOUSE. 

Steep  black  peppercorns  and  mustard  seed  in  strong  vinegar 
for  four  weeks,  strain  and  pour  it  over  the  souse  after  it  is  boiled 
tender. 

VINEGAR   FOR   SOUSED   FISH. 

Steep  in  strong  vinegar  a  few  cloves,  some  peppercorns,  mustard 
seed,  and  young  walnuts  bruised,  until  the  vinegaris  thoroughly 
spiced  ;  strain,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  The  fish  must  be  boiled 
before  it  is  soused. 

CLOVE   VINEGAR. 

Steep  two  ounces  of  bruised  cloves  in  one  pint  of  strong  vine- 
gar, for  six  weeks ;  then  filter  it  until  it  is  clear,  bottle  and  cork 
closely,  in  half  pint  bottles. 

TARRAGON   VINEGAR. 

Pick  tarragon  leaves  from  the  stalk  before  the  plant  flowers,  fill 
a  large,  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  them,  steep  them  in  strong  vine- 
gar for  two  weeks  or  longer,  strain  clear;  bottle  and  cork  closely, 
in  half  pint  bottles.     This  is  used  to  flavor  mustards  and  salads. 

SAVORY   VINEGAR. 

Steep  summer  savory  in  strong  vinegar  until  it  is  thoroughly 
flavored     strain,  and  bottle  it  tightly. 

CELERY   VINEGAR. 

Into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  vinegar,  throw  a  pint  of  fresh 
celer}  roots  and  stems,  sliced  fine,  a  large  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a 


106  MEAT    SAUCES. 

few  grain  of  cayenne,  and  half  an  ounce  of  peppercorns ;  let  i 
boil  two  or  three  minutes,  turn  iV  into  a  stone  jar,  and  secure  it 
from  the  air  when  it  is  cold.     It  will  keep  two  or  three  months  in 
the  jar,  or  it  may  be  strained  off  and  bottled  in  three  or  four  weeks 

GREEN   MINT   VINEGAR. 

Put  freshly  gathered  mint,. chopped  or  bruised,  into  bottles  un- 
til they  are  nearly  full ;  pour  in  pale  vinegar,  and  in  six  weeks  strain 
it  off  and  bottle  it  for  use.  Young  leaves  of  mint  stripped  from 
the  stalk  and  minced  for  sauce  will  keep  in  vinegar,  though  the  coK 
or  may  not  be  very  good. 

RASPBERRY   VINEGAR. 

Put  three  or  four  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  and  cover 
them  with  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then 
strain  this  juice  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  pour  it  on  fresh  berries, 
letting  this  stand  another  day.  Repeat  this  process  until  you  have 
the  quantity  you  desire.  Add  to  each  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Put  it  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  allow  it  to  heat  suf- 
ficiently to  melt  the  sugar.  When  it  is  cold,  put  it  into  sealed  bot- 
tles.    It  will  keep  two  years. 

BLACK    CURRANT   VINEGAR. 

Well  bruise  the  currants,  pour  the  vinegar  over  them,  putting  in 
a  little  sugar  to  draw  the  juice.  Let  it  stand  three  or  four  days, 
stirring  it  well  each  day.  Strain  the  juice  from  the  fruit,  and  put- 
ting one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice  ;  boil  it  gently  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  skim,  and  when  cold,  bottle  it. 

CHILI   VINEGAR. 

Let  fifty  small,  ripe  cayenne  peppers  chopped  fine,  remain  in 
strong  vinegar  for  a  fortnight,  then  strani  and  bottle. 


RELISHES. 


SANDWICHES. 

Make  some  nice  biscuit  which  will  be  three-  juarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  when  baked.  Split  them,  butter  them  lightly,  and  lay  in  a 
slice  of  tongue,  or  ham,  touched  with  French  mustard  or  anchovy 
sauce. 

DRESSING   FOR    SANDWICHES. 

^Take  three  spoonsful  of  sweet  oil,  three  table-spoonsful  of  mixed 
mustard,  half-a-pound  of  good  butter,  a  little  red  pepper,  a  Httlc 
salt,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  beat  them  together  smoothly,  and  keep 
them  cool ;  then  chop  together  finely  some  tongue  and  ham,  and  if 
convenient,  a  little  cold  chicken.  Spread  the  sliced  bread  with  the 
dressing,  then  with  the  meat ;  add  the  second  slice,  press  closely 
together  and  trim  off  the  edges. 

A   COLD  RELISH. 

Cut  odd  scraps  of  meat  into  small  pieces.  If  there  is  veal  and 
ham  among  it,  so  much  the  better.  Add  three  table-spoonsful  of 
farina,  some  parsley,  green  or  dried,  a  little  sage,  a  little  celery, 
parsnip,  or  carrot,  or  all  three,  chopped  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt. 
Cover  with  water,  and  stew  for  two  hours,  very  gently.  Pour  into 
a  dish,  and  when  cold  it  will  be  solid ;  and  should  be  cut  in  thin 
slices,  for  the  table. 

A    GERMAN   ENTREMEl. 

Boil  eight  eggs  quite  hard,  and  when  cold  cut  them  in  two  length* 
wise.  Take  the  yolks  out  very  carefully,  pass  them  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  mix  them  well  with  half  a  pint  of  cream  (or  more  if  re- 
quired) and  then  add  pepper,  salt,  and  herbs.     Pour  this  sauce 


108  RELISHES. 

into  a  very  flat  pie  di^h  that  will  stand  heat,  and  place  the  white 
half  eggs  carefully  in  it,  arranging  them  in  the  form  of  a  star,  or 
any  pattern  preferred.  Fill  up  the  vacancy  left  in  them  by  the 
yolks  having  been  removed,  with  the  same  mixture,  and  strew  a 
few  bread  crumbs  over  them.  Bake  this  very  slightly,  just  enough 
to  give  it  a  bright  yellow  color,  and  serve  it  up  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  has  been  baked. 

SAVORY  CUSTARD. 

Beat  two  eggs  into  one  and  a  half  gills  of  cream ;  season  to 
taste  with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  chopped  parsley,  sweet  herbs 
and  shallot ;  add  to  these  some  chopped  ham  and  tongue.  Pour  it 
into  small  round  cups  and  steam  ten  minutes. 

TOMATO     TOAST. 

Pare,  slice,  and  cook  green  tomatoes  until  very  tender.  Add 
sweet  cream,  sweet  milk  will  do,  but  it  will  need  more  butter  to 
make  plenty  of  gravy  ;  season  with  peper,  salt,  and  butter.  Have 
the  bread  nicely  toasted  and  placed  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the 
contents  of  the  fr}'ing-pan  over  it.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to 
use  up  dry  slices  of  bread. 

TOMATO    OMELET. 

Peel  and  chop  a  quart  of  tomatoes,  simmer  them  for  twenty 
minutes  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them  ;  chop  a  few  onions 
very  fine,  throw  them  in  with  crumbled  bread  and  a  lump  of  but- 
ier ;  when  nearly  done  beat  up  four  eggs,  :a.nd  stir  them  in  a  few 
minutes  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste. 

SAVORY   TOAST. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  a  saucepan,  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  mustard,  a  wine  glass  of  vlpe-q^ar  (that  in  which 
walnuts  have  been  pickled  Is  superior  to  all  others),  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  anchovy  sauce,  some  pepper  and  caveno-",,  quarter 
pound  of  cheese  broken  into  pieces.  Stir  it  well  until  dissolved, 
then  spread  on  toasted  bread  and  serve. 

TOASTED   CTiEESE. — 1. 

Grate  three  ounces  of  fat  chees^.   mix  it  with  the  volk  oC  onQ 


RELISHES.  109 

eggt  four  ounces  of  grated  bread  and  three  ounces  of  butter,  beat 
the  whole  well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  dessert -spoonful  of  mustard, 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Toast  some  slices  of  bread,  lay  the 
paste  thick  upon  it,  put  it  for  a  minute  before  the  fire  and  send  to 
table  very  hot. 

TOASTED    CHEESE. — 2. 

Put  into  a  clean  sauce-pan  a  table-spoonful  of  either  ale  (not 
bitter)  or  cold  water ;  add  some  slices  of  toasting  cheese,  and  let 
it  simmer  until  it  is  melted,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Have  ready 
in  a  bowl  some  good  ale,  sweeten  it  to  the  taste  with  moist  sugar 
and  add  some  grated  nutmeg,  loast  slices  of  bread  without 
either  burn  or  crust,  put  them  hot  into  the  bowl,  to  take  the  chill 
off  the  ale,  then  put  a  slice  of  the  toast  on  a  hot  plate  for  each  per- 
son, and  pour  upon  it  as  much  of  the  cooked  cheese  as  may  be 
agreeable.  Take  out  of  the  bowl  any  remaining  toast  there  may 
be  left ;  stir  well  the  sugar  from  the  bottom,  and  drink  the  ale  af- 
ter eating  the  cheese. 

ANCHOVY   CHEESE. 

Put  a  piece  of  cheese  into  a  stewpan,  and,  when  soft,  mash  it 
with  butter  or  any  other  grease.  Now  add  half  a  pint  of  water, 
hot  or  cold,  a  little  salt,  and  an  anchovy  cut  small.  Boil  the  whole 
together,  adding  as  much  flour  from  time  to  time  as  the  liquid  will 
absorb.  When  you  have  got  a  thick  paste,  pour  over  it  some  eggs 
beaten  up,  and  mix  the  whole  well  together.  Lastly,  pull  your 
paste  into  small  lumps,  and  bake  in  an  oven. 

CHEESE   OMELET. 

Butter  the  sides  of  a  deep  dish,  cover  the  bottom  with  thin  slices 
of  cheese,  place  upon  this  very  thin  slices  of  bread,  well  buttered, 
a  Httle  red  pepper  and  mustard,  another  layer  of  cheese,  and, 
just  before  putting  in'  the  oven,  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  cup  of 
cream  and  pour  into  the  dish.  Bake  half  an  hour  or  until  nicely 
browned. 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one   ounce   and  half  of  flour 


110  RELISHES. 

four  eggs,  three  ounces  cheese  grated,  not  quite  half  a  pint  of  milk. 
Place  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  on  the  hot  plate,  stir  to- 
gether :  next  add  the  grated  cheese ;  stir  on  for  twenty  minutes, 
when  remove  it,  and  let  it  get  cold.  Beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  separately,  add  the  yolks  to  the  mixture  cold,  but  the  whites 
must  be  beaten  and  added  just  before  baking.  Bake  in  a  brisk 
oven  on  a  silver  fondu  dish,  or  a  round  cake  tin  concealed  with  a 
frilled  paper,  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot,  as  it 
will  fall  in  cooling. 

FONDU   STRAWS. 

Quarter  of  a  pound  of  puff  paste  and  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
good  cheese  grated  very  fine,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
mixed ;  sprinkle  the  cheese,  salt,  and  pepper  over  the  paste,  and 
roll  it  two  or  three  times  ;  cut  it  into  narrow  strips  about  five  inches 
long ;  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven  and  serve  very  hot. 

POTTED    CHEESE. 

One  pound  of  cheese  beaten  in  a  mortar ;  two  ounces  of  liquid 
butter,  one  glass  of  sherry,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  cayenne 
pepper,  mace,  and  salt.  All  should  be  well  beaten  together  and 
put  into  a  pretty  shaped  glass  potting-jar,  with  a  layer  of  butter  at 
the  top.     It  makes  a  delicious  relish  for  bread  or  toast. 

POT    CUEESK. 

Scald  a  pint  of  sour  milk  till  it  curdles,  strain  off  the  whey  and 
form  the  curd  into  round  cakes  an  inch  thick,  adding  salt  to  taste. 
The  milk  should  not  be  old ;  if  very  sour,  a  little  sweet  milk  scalded 
with  it  improves  the  flavor. 

MACARONI. 

Put  four  or  five  ounces  of  macaroni  in  water,  and  boil  for  twen 
ty  minutes,  until  tender.  Mix  into  half  a  pint  of  milk  a  little 
flour,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  half  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and  four  ounces 
of  good  fat  cheese  grated  very  fine ;  stir  all  together  and  boil  for 
ten  minutes.  Pour  this  over  the  macaroni,  after  draining  it  from 
the  water    boil  five  or  six  minutes  and  serve. 


RELISHES.  Ill 


TIMBALL   OF   MACARONI. 


Roll  some  pufF  paste  very  thin,  and  cut  it  into  narrow  bands, 
and  twist  each  into  a  kind  of  cord,  which  coil  around  the  insides 
of  small  butter  moulds.  Tiien  fill  each  mould  with  macaroni 
cover  the  top  with  equal  quantities  of  grated  bread  and  good  fa 
cheese;  put  them  into  a  warm  oven,  and  let  them  bake  three  quar 
ters  of  an  hour,  turn  tnem  out  on  a  dish  ana  serve  them. 


PICKLES. 


CUCUMBERS. — 1. 

To  pickle  cucumbers  for  market  cut  them  from  the  vines  without 
bruising  the  stems,  take  them  carefully  to  the  cellar,  pack  in  barrels 
putting  different  sizes  in  separate  barrels ;  spread  a  layer  of  salt 
between  each  layer  of  cucumbers,  sufficient  to  entirely  cover  the 
pickles.  Pack  the  cucumbers  daily  as  they  are  picked,  discarding 
the  crooked  or  those  of  slow  growth.  The  brine  will  be  formed 
without  the  addition  of  water,  by  the  juice  extracted  by  the  salt. 
Keep  boards  over  the  pickles,  with  weights  to  press  them  under 
the  brine.  Pickles  packed  in  this  way  can  be  preserved  for  years 
with  pure  salt ;  but  if  the  salt  is  mixed  with  lime  they  will  soflen 
and  spoil.  In  two  months  after  the  barrel  is  filled,  take  them  from 
the  brine,  freshen  and  green.  To  green  them,  prepare  alum  water, 
put  the  pickles  in  a  vat  or  boiler  lined  with  tinned  copper ;  heat 
the  alum  water,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Pickle  makers  usually 
employ  this  process  except  that  they  throw  steam  into  the  vats  to 
heat  the  alum  water,  and  if  managed  properly  the  pickles  may  be 
greened  with  less  action  of  copper  than  when  scalded  in  the  usual 
method  in  bright  brass  kettles.  Take  the  pickles  from  the  vat  when 
a  little  green,  and  pour  over  them  water  boiling  hot.  If  not 
greened  sufficiently,  repeat  the  hot  water  until  they  are  the  desired 
color,  and  when  cold  put  them  in  good  vinegar.  Let  them  remain 
until  quite  soured ;  then  change  to  pretty  strong  vinegar,  which  will 
keep  the  pickles  hard  and  sour.  Add  six  large  peppers,  without 
bruising,  to  each  barrel,  and  keep  the  pickles  under  the  vinegar 
witn  weights. 

CUCUMBERS. — 2. 

A  simpler  method  is,  pick  the  cucumbers  with  a  bit  of  the  stem 


PICKLES.  113 

on,  wipe  them  clean  and  put  them  into  tlie  following  pickle,  at  the 
rate  of  one  part  vinegar,  two  parts  water,  and  three  salt,  with  a 
good  sized  root  of  horseradish.  When  the  tub  is  full,  put  a  cloth 
over  the  cucumbers  and  a  clean  fiat  stuuii  over  the  cloth,  cover  the 
tub  and  set  it  in  the  cellar  In  the  spring  soak  them  and  pickle 
^  them  in  vmegar. 

TOMATOES. 

AVipe  the  tomatoes  clean;  slice  them,  if  large,  twice  in  two;  if 
small,  only  once.  Sprinkle  a  thin  layer  of  sugar  on  the  bottom  of 
a  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  then  a  sprinkling  of 
sugar,  and  so  on.  When  the  jar  is  full,  add  vmegar  and  set  it  in 
a  warm  place.  In  a  few  weeks  they  will  be  good  pickles.  The 
tomatoes  must  be  kept  under  the  vinegar,  and  the  jar  tightly  cov- 
ered. 

bp:ets 

Boil  the  beets  till  tender,  tlien  drop  them  whole  or  sliced  into 
spiced  vinegar. 

GREEN    tomatoes. 

Let  green  tomatoes  stand  in  salt  and  water  for  twelve  hours. 
Then  stick  four  or  five  cloves  in  each  one,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar 
over  them.     Place  them  in  a  jar  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place. 

MUSTARD    pickle. 

Half  peck  of  small  cucunibers,  half  peck  of  green  string  beans, 
one  quart  of  green  peppers,  two  quarts  of  small  onions.  Cut  all 
in  small  piec^is  ;  put  cucumbers  and  beans  in  a  strong  brine  for 
twenty -four  hours.  Remove  from  brine  and  pour  on  two  pounds 
of  ground  mustard  mixed  with  one  pint  of  sweet  oil,  and  three 
quarts  of  vinegar. 

green   nCKLE. 

In  two  quarts  of  good  vinegar,  boil  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  two 
ounces  of  shallots,  two  large  tea-spoonsful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one 
ounce  of  ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  white  pepper  ;  when  well  boiled, 
cool  and  pour  it  in  a  jar  upon  any  freshly  gathered  green  fruits  and 
vegetables  desired  to  be  pickled. 


114  PICKLES. 


OXIOXS.- 


Peel  small  onions  and  lay  them  for  one  day  in  salt  and  Tvater, 
changiiig  tlieir  position  once  during  the  time.  Boil  together  good 
vinegar,  cloves,  mace,  and  a  little  pepper,  dry  the  onions,  pour  the 
pickle  over  them  in  a  jar,  and  cover  them  closely. 

ONIONS— 2. 

To  prevent  watery  eyes  while  peeling,  put  them  in  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water.  Let  them  stand  a  few  moments  to  drain,  then  peel  them, 
put  them  into  milk  and  water,  with  a  little  salt ;  when  it  boils, 
strain  off  the  onions,  wipe  dry,  and  put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bot- 
tles. Have  very  old  white  wine  vinegar,  in  which  whole  white 
pepper,  ginger,  mace,  and  horseradish  have  been  boiled.  Pour  it 
over  the  onions,  and  cover  down  close  with  bladders. 

PORTUGAL   ONIONS. 

The  Portugal  onion  makes  an  excellent  pickle  prepared  in  the 
following  way :  one  large  onion  and  one  large  baking  apple,  cut 
up  into  small  pieces,  mixed  well  together,  and  put  into  a  pickle 
jar,  into  which  enough  boiling  vinegar  must  be  poured  to  cover 
the  mixture  and  fill  up  the  jar. 

FRENCH  BEANS. 

Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  gather  the  beans  before 
they  have  strings,  lay  them  in  the  brine  till  yellow,  drain  them  dry 
and  put  boiling  hot  vinegar  over  them.  Close  them  tightly  for  a 
day  and  night.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  it  on  again  for  several 
days  till  they  turn  green.  To  one  peck  of  beans  put  half  an 
ounce  each  of  pepper,  mace  and  cloves. 

CABBAGE. 

Cut  a  firm  cabbage  into  thin  slices,  spread  it  on  an  open  dish, 
sprinkle  it  over  with  salt  for  two  or  three  days,  then  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  or  colander,  so  as  to  take  all  water  from  it ;  place 
it  in  your  jar,  and  pour  as  much  boiling  vinegar  as  will  cover  it; 
lay  over  the  jar  a  cloth  to  keep  in  all  the  steam  until  quite  cold, 
then  tie  it  down  air  tight.  It  will  keep  for  a  very  long  time.  A 
few  slices  of  beet  root  gives  a  good  color. 


PICKLES.  115 


CABBAGE   WITH    SWEET   PICKLE. 

Cut  the  heads  into  quarters,  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  a  short 
time.  Chop  them  fine,  together  with  nice  fine  celery  sufficient  to 
season  it.  Fill  small  jars  or  cans,  make  a  sweet  pickle  of  molasses 
and  vinegar,  season  with  plenty  of  red  pepper  and  cinnamon,  and 
other  spices  to  the  taste  ;  boil  altcgether  a  few  moments  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage  while  hot.  Cork  the  cans  and  place  in  the  cellar. 
This  should  not  be  eaten  under  three  or  four  weeks.  It  is  a  nice 
relish  with  cold  meats,  etc. 

RED    CABBAGE. 

Put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cochineal  into  a  small  bag,  and  boil 
it  with  the  quantity  of  vinegar  considered  sufficient  for  the  cabbage 
yea  wish  to  pickle,  adding  a  little  salt,  and  bay  salt.  When  it 
boils,  scald  the  cabbage  with  it,  having  previously  cut  it  into  slices; 
boil  the  vinegar  up  again,  this  time  adding  ginger  and  pepper. 
Let  it  cool,  and  when  quite  cold,  having  put  the  cabbage  into  jars, 
pour  the  pickle  upon  it,  and  tie  it  down  closely.  The  cochineal 
preserves  the  color ;  beet  root  may  be  used  instead.  Both  are 
quite  harmless. 

MELONS,    MANGOES   AND   CUCUIVIBERS. 

Melons  should  not  be  much  more  than  half  grown,  but  cucum- 
bers full  grown.  Cut  off  the  top,  but  leave  it  hanging  by  a  bit  of 
rind,  which  is  to  serve  as  a  hinge  to  a  box  lid ;  scoop  out  all  the 
seeds  with  a  spoon,  and  fill  the  fruit  with  equal  parts  of  mustard 
seed,  ground  pepper  and  ginger,  or  fiour  of  mustard  instead  of  the 
seed,  and  two  or  three  cloves  of  garlic.  The  lid  which  incloses 
the  spice  may  be  sewed  down  or  tied,  by  running  a  white  thread 
through  the  ends.  The  pickle  may  be  prepared  with  the  spices,  or, 
if  preferred,  with  the  following  ingredients:  To  each  quart  of 
vinegar  put  salt,  flour  of  mustard,  curry  powder,  bruised  ginger, 
tumeric,  half  ounce  of  each ;  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  drachm ; 
lub  all  these  together  with  a  large  glassful  of  salad  oil ;  eschalots, 
two  ounces,  garlic,  half  ounce,  sliced.  Steep  the  spice  in  the  vin- 
egar as  before  directed,  and  put  the  vegetables  into  it  hot. 


116  PICKLES. 


GHERKINS. 


A  quick  mode  of  pickling  gherkins,  or  prickly  cucumbers,  Is  to 
prick  them  with  a  needle  in  several  places,  and  put  them  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  adding  as  much  salt  as  will  make  a  strong  brine. 
Let  them  soak  for  three  hours.  Take  them  out,  wipe  them  dry  !n  a 
clean  cloth  ;  put  in  a  saucepan,  over  a  gentle  fire,  add  some  strong, 
brown  pickling  vinegar,  with  allspice,  half  the  quantity  of  whole 
black  pepper,  a  little  brown  ginger  and  some  cayenne  pepper. 
Let  them  simmer  quarter  of  an  hour ;  take  them  up,  and  when  cold, 
pour  them  over  the  gherkins  in  a  jar,  and  stop  them  tightly  down. 
They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  the  course  of  three  or  four  days.  One 
or  two  eschalots  will  be  found  an  improvement. 

PICCALILLI. 

Use  all  kinds  of  vegetables  that  may  be  pickled.  Slice  cabbages, 
and  pull  cauliflowers  in  bunches,  put  them  on  earthen  dishes, 
sprinkled  over  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  three  days  to  dry. 
Sliced  cucumbers,  green  tomatoes,  gherkins,  radish  pods,  onions, 
beans,  nasturtiums  and  anything  you  like  that  may  be  pickled, 
put  it  into  salt  and  water  one  day.  The  next  day  dry  them  ;  take 
a  few  at  a  time  and  scald  in  brown  vinegar,  and  when  all  are 
scalded,  set  the  vinegar  away.  To  four  quarts  of  brown  vinegar, 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  quart- 
er of  a  pound  of  shallots,  two  ounces  of  tumeric,  and  boil  slowly- 
half  an  hour.  Take  some  boiling  vinegar,  and  mix  eight  ounces 
of  flour  of  mustard  and  pour  it  into  the  vinegar  and  spices  ;  it 
must  not  boil  after  the  mustard  is  put  in.  Put  the  prepared  veg- 
etables and  spices  in  a  large  jar,  scatter  some  brown  mustard 
seed  among  the  mixture,  and  stir  it  up  well  in  the  jar.  If  at  any 
time  it  should  become  too  dry,  add  cold  boiled  vinegar;  for  the 
vegetable  must  be  kept  covered  with  vinegar  mixture.  Cover  the 
jar  air  tight  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

LEMON   PICKLE. 

The  fruit  should  be  small  with  thick  rinds.  Rub  them  with  a 
piece  of  flannel ;  then  slit  them  down  in  quarters,  but  not  quite 
through  the  pulp,  fill  the  slits  with  salt  hard  pressed  in ;  set  them 


PICKLES.  117 

upright  in  a  pan  for  four  or  five  days  until  the  salt  melts ;  turn 
them  three  days  until  they  become  tender  in  their  liquor.  Then 
make  enough  pickle  to  cover  them,  of  ripe  vinegar,  the  brine  of  the 
lemons,  Jamaica  pepper  and  ginger ;  boil  and  skim  it.  When 
cold,  put  it  over  the  lemons. 

TO    PICKLE    ROOTS. 

Roots,  such  as  carrots,  salsify,  and  beet  roots,  may  be  pickled  by 
being  sliced,  or  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  slightly  boiled  in  vine- 
gar without  destroying  their  crispness,  and  adding  the  common 
spices  ;  with  beet  roots  put  button  onions,  or  cut  some  Spanish  on- 
ions in  slices,  lay  them  alternately  in  a  jar ;  boil  one  quart  of  vin- 
egar, vvrith  one  ounce  of  mixed  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  ginger, 
some  salt,  and  pour  it  cold  over  the  beet  root  and  onions. 

BARBERRIES. — 1. 

Gather  when  not  over  ripe,  pick  off  the  leaves  and  dead  stalks. 
Place  them  in  jars,  pour  over  them  cold  boiled  salt  and  water,  and 
close  them  tightly.  They  must  be  looked  at  occasionally,  and  as 
soon  as  a  scum  is  seen  to  rise  on  them,  they  should  be  put  into 
fresh  salt  and  water. 

BARBERRIES. — 2. 

Another  method  is  to  place  them  in  a  wide-^mouthed  bottle  and 
pour  over  them  cold  distilled  vinegar  that  has  been  previous- 
ly boiled  with  a  little  spice,  and  keep  them  well  corked.  They  are 
delicious  when  eaten  with  fish,  and  look  very  pretty  round  the 
dish. 

BARBERRIES,   (Sweet.) 1. 

Add  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  molasses  to  each 
pound  of  the  berries,  sinimer  them  together  half  an  hour  cv  more, 
until  they  become  soft. 

BARBERRIES,   (Siveet.) — 2 

With  every  half  pound  of  moist  sugar  mix  one  pint  of  water, 
and  one  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar :  put  the  worst  of  the  barber- 
ries in  this  and  boil  ]till  the  liquor  is  a  bright  deep  color.     Put  the 


118  PICKLES. 

rest  of  the  berries  in  glasses,  let  the  liquor  stand  till  cold,  then 
strain  it,  wringing  the  cloth  to  get  all  the  color  from  the  barberries. 
Let  it  settle,  then  pour  it  into  the  glasses.  Cover  tightly  with  a 
bladder  and  leather. 

WALNUTS. 

Put  them  into  strong  salt,  and  water,  for  nine  days ;  stir  them 
frequently,  and  change  the  salt  and  water,  every  three  days.  Let 
them  stand  in  a  hair  sieve  till  they  turn  black.  Put  them  into 
strong  stone  jars,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them.  Cover 
them,  and  let  them  stand  till  they  are  cold.  Scald  the  vinegar 
three  times  more,  pour  It  each  time  upon  the  walnuts,  and  let  them 
stand  till  cold  between  each  boiling ;  cover  them  closely,  and  let 
them  stand  two  months.  Make  for  them  a  pickle  of  two  quarts  of 
vinegar,  half  an  ounce  of  olives,  the  same  of  mace,  one  ounce  of 
ginger,  the  same  of  long-pepper,  and  two  ounces  of  salt.  Boil  it 
ten  minutes,  pour  it  hot  on  the  walnuts,  and  cover  them  tight. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Fill  a  stone  pot  with  asparagus,  make  a  pickle  of  water  and 
have  it  salt  enough  to  bear  an  egg ;  pour  it  on  hot  and  keep  it 
covered  tight.  Before  using,  put  the  asparagus  In  cold  water  for 
two  hours.  Then  boil  and  butter  and  send  to  table.  If  they  are 
used  for  pickles  take  them  out  of  the  brine,  boil  them  and  cover 
them  with  vinegar. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

To  six  wooden  quarts  of  blackberries  add  three  pounds  of  sugar 
and  one  quart  of  good  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  covered  until  a 
syrup  is  formed,  then  pour  it  off,  boil,  and  skim  it  off  clear;  put 
in  the  fruit  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil.  Take  it  out  carefully. 
Let  the  syrup  boil  up  once  more,  then  pour  over  and  seal  or  tie 
down. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Button  mushrooms,  to  preserve  their  flavor,  should  be  rubbed 
with  a  piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  salt.  To  preserve  their  color, 
keep  them  in  spring  water  both  before  and  after  rubbing.     From 


PICKLES.  119 

the  larger  mushrooms  remove  the  red  inside ;  when  this  is  turned 
black  they  are  too  old.  Throw  a  little  salt  over  them  and  put 
them  into  a  stevvpan  with  some  mice  and  red  pepper;  as  the  li- 
quor comes  out,  shake  them  well  and  simmer  them  over  a  gentle 
fire  till  all  of  it  is  dried  into  them  agfsin.  Put  as  much  vinegar 
into  the  pan  as  will  cover  thc.r  ;  mi\fi  .t  warm,  and  then  pour  all 
into  glass  jars  or  bottles,  and  tie  down  tightly,  with  a  bladder 
They  will  keep  two  years. 


SALADS. 


SPRING    SALADS. 


Use  salads  on  the  table  as  early  as  possible  in  the  Spring ;  they 
are  pleasant  and  very  healthful.  Water-cresses  should  be  a  stand- 
ing dish  upon  the  breakfast  table  ;  and  lettuce,  with  chives,  pepper- 
grass,  and  whatever  else  is  available,  at  dinner.  Never  mind  the 
rc^gular  salad  mixture  of  sweet  oil  and  the  like,  if  it  is  not  conven- 
ient or  agreeable.  Pepper,  salt  and  vinegar,  are  very  good  condi- 
ments alone,  and  we  must  even  confess  a  weakness  for  an  old- 
fashioned  sprinkling  of  white  sugar  and  vinegar  on  our  lettuce, 
occasionally ;  but  eat  it  at  any  rate,  if  only  with  salt. 

CHICKEN    SALAD. 

Mince  all  the  tender  meat,  white  and  dark,  of  a  pair  of  chick- 
ens, fine.  They  should  have  been  previously  boiled  or  roasted. 
Chop  all  the  white  part  of  a  large  head  of  celery,  with  one  or  two 
young  heads  of  lettuce,  if  they  can  be  had,  and  mix  with  the  chick- 
en. Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  eggs,  boiled  twenty  minutes, 
and  rubbed  smooth  with  a  spoon,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  made  Eng- 
lish mustard,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  table-spoonsful  of  salad 
oil,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  strong 
vinegar.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken  and  celery,  in  a  salad 
buwl,  and  garnish  with  rings  cut  from  the  boiled  whites  of  the 
eggs. 

CARROT    SALAD. 

Boil  your  carrots  tender,  chop  them  fine,  with  the  whites  of 
hard  boiled  eggs.  Pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  of  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  beaten  smooth,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  little  pep- 


SALADS.  121 

per  and  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made  mustard. 

FISH    SALAD. 

Cold  fish  may  be  made  Into  a  very  excellent  salad  in  this  way : 
Cut  it  as  neatly  as  possible  into  pieces  about  one  or  two  inches 
square ;  put  them  Into  a  deep  dish,  add  a  little  salt,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  very  finely  chopped  onions ;  squeeze  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  over  It ;  cover  the  dish  with  a  plate,  and  set  it  away  for  two 
hours.  Then  take  fresh  lettuce,  well  drained  from  the  water,  cut 
it  into  pieces  and  pile  it  up  high  in  the  centre  of  a  dish ;  drain  the 
fish  from  the  lemon  juice,  and  place  in  a  circle  round  the  pile  of 
lettuce  as  you  would  cutlets ;  pour  some  salad  sauce  over  the  let- 
tuce, only  keeping  the  fish  white.  Place  parsley  leaves  between 
the  pieces  of  fish,  or  a  small  piece  of  red  beet-root,  to  garnish. 

LOBSTER    SALAD. 

Mince  the  meat  from  the  body  and  claws  fine,  mash  the  coral, 
and  mix  it  with  scalded  lettuce  chopped  fine.  Make  a  sauce  of  a 
little  pepper,  a  very  little  cayenne,  a  tea-spoonful  of  French  mus- 
tard, four  table-spoonsful  of  salad  oil,  and  four  table-spoonsful  of 
strong  vinegar.  Mash  the  yolks  of.  three  boiled  eggs,  mix  them 
with  the  coral  and  the  sauce,  and  add  it  before  serving.  [For 
another  receipt,  see  Lobsters.] 

AN    EAST    INDIAN    SALAD. 

Take  a  large  boiled  crab,  pick  the  meat  clean  from  the  shell,  and 
chop  it  up  finely.  Place  it  in  a  deep  salad  dish,  adding  one  gill  of 
tarragon,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  Chili  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  pure  Lucca  or  Florence  oil,  with  an  anchovy  bruised  in  a  mor- 
tar. Let  these  be  well  mixed  together.  Chop  one  blanched 
endive,  one  stick  of  celery,  and  a  small  bunch  of  green  chives, 
with  salt  to  taste,  and  arrange  the  ingredients  with  a  spoon  in 
your  salid  dish.  This  is  a  good  relish  eaten  with  toasted  cheese, 
or  cold  fowl,  and  other  choice  meats. 

SALAD    FOR    COLD    LAMB. 

Wash  and  chop  finely  three  large  lettuces.     Have  ready  a  bunch 
6 


122  SALADS. 

of  barhe  de  capuchin  a  bunch  of  water  cresses,  half  a  dozen  young 
radishes,  a  little  punnet  and  cress,  two  or  there  sprigs  of  tarragon 
leaves,  a  handful  of  corn-salad,  twelve  young  chives,  and  a  boiled 
beet  root.  Pour  into  a  salad  bowl  two  table-spoonsful  of  Lucca  or 
Florence  oil,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sweet  anchovy  sauce,  ateaspoonful  of 
Chili  vinegar,  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  beaten  up  with 
cream,  with  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  adding  a  gill  of  vine- 
gar. Cut  up  the  roots  and  esculents,  and  stir  them  in  till  the 
salad  13  3vanl/  mixed. 

TOMATO    SALAD. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices ;  sprinkle  over 
them  a  small  quantity  of  finely  chopped  green  onions,  add  salt, 
pepper,  vinegar,  and  oil  if  liked.  The  oil  should  be  in  the  propor- 
tion of  three  table-spoonsful  to  one  of  vinegar.  Serve  with  any 
roast  meats. 

POTATO   SALAD. 

When  materials  for  a  salad  are  scarce,  this  is  a  good  way  of  dis- 
posing of  cold  potatoes.  Slice  them,  and  dress  them  with  oil,  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  pepper,  precisely  like  any  other  salad  ;  adding  a  little 
chives,  or  an  onion,  and  parsley  chopped  fine.  If  oil  is  not  agree- 
able, use  cream  or  a  little  melted  butter. 

THE   poet's    salad. 

Pass  two  well  boiled  potatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  mustard,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  salt,  one  of  essence  of  ancho- 
vy, quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  very  finely  chopped  onions,  well- 
bruised  into  the  mixture,  three  table-spoonsful  of  oil,  one  of  vine- 
gar, the  pounded  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Stir  it  up  thor- 
oughly before  serving. 

LETTUCE   SALAD. 

Chop  lettuces  small  and  mix  in  a  little  of  young  onions  if  liked, 
make  a  sauce  for  liiem  in  the  proportion  of  a  table- spoonful  of 
sugar  to  two  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  black  pepper. 

nOTCH    POTCH. 

Green  tomatoes,   cabbage,  and  cucumbers,   one  pint  of  each. 


SALADS.  123 

half-a-pint  of  onions ;  chop  all  very  fine,  salt  well,  let  them  stand 
one  night,  after  which  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  pepper, 
horseradish,  white  mustard  seed,  and  half  pint  of  sugar ;  mix 
well,  lightly,  fill  your  jar,  and  cover  with  good  vinegar. 

CHOW   CHOW. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  onions,  four  green  peppers ; 
chop  fine,  mix  salt  with  them,  let  them  stand  one  night,  then 
S({ueeze  through  a  cloth  all  moisture;  after  which  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  black  pepper,  four 
table-spoonsful  of  horseradish,  one  half  pound  of  white  mustard 
seed,  mix  it  well,  pack  it  in  your  jar,  and  cover  with  good  vine- 
gar. 

CABBAGE   AND    VINEGAR. 

Take  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  buttei  heated 
well.  Beat  an  egg  and  stir  into  it,  but  after  it  is  cool  enough,  so 
as  not  to  cook  the  egg.  Then  cut  up  your  cabbage,  add  salt  and 
pepper ;  pour  the  mixture  warm  over  it  and  set  aside  for  dinner. 

COLE    SLAAV. 

Take  the  small  head  of  a  cabbage  after  removing  six  or  seven 
outside  leaves  and  cutting  off  the  stalk  as  close  as  possible,  chop 
fine,  and  mix  with  plenty  of  vinegar,  salting  it  to  taste. 

AN    EXCELLENT   CHOW    CHOW    PICKLE. 

Take  one  large  head  of  slaw  cabbage,  two  large  bunches  of 
celery,  and  twelve  onions ;  slice  all  fine  and  salt  well.  After 
twenty-four  hours,  drain  well  and  cover  with  vinegar,  to  remain 
twelve  hours  ;  then  drain  from  the  vinegar ;  add  four  red  peppers 
and  two  green  ones,  finely  cut  up ;  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  mustard-seed,  two  table-spoonsful  of  mixed  mus- 
tard, one  spoonful  of  allspice,  half  the  quantity  of  cloves,  one 
table-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  oil,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar ;  mix  all  together  and  cover  with  vinegar.  More  cele- 
ry may  be  used  if  desired. 

TOMATO    SOY. 

To  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes   put  a  tea-cup  of  fine   salt  and  a 


124  SALADS. 

dozen  green  peppers.  Chop  tomatoes  and  peppers  fine,  work  tho 
salt  well  through  the  whole.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours ;  then 
drain  the  brine  off,  spice  to  taste  with  cinnamon  and  cloves,  pack 
down  in  a  jar,  and  just  cover  with  vinegar,  in  which  the  spice  has 
been  boiled,  while  it  is  hot. 

HANDY   CHOW   CHOW. 

Chop  together  very  finely  a  head  of  cabbage,  six  green  peppers, 
six  green  tomatoes,  add  two  tea-spoonsful  of  mustard,  sufficient 
salt,  vinegar  to  wet  it,  an  1  if  desired  a  little  cloves  and  allspice. 
It  is  ready  then  for  use  and  will  keep  a  long  time.  No  better 
appetizer  can  be  made. 


EGGS. 


BOILED. 

Put  the  required  number  of  eggs  into  a  saucepan  containing  boil- 
ing  water  sufficient  to  cover  them,  and  put  it  in  a  place  on  the  range 
where  it  will  keep  boiling  hot,  but  not  boil.  Let  them  stand  seven 
minutes.  When  taken  up,  they  will  be  found  thickly  and  delicious- 
ly  jellied  throughout,  and  perfectly  digestible.  It  is  a  much  better 
and  more  certain  way,  than  boiling  them. 

Another  method  is  to  let  them  boil  gently  for  thirty  minutes. 
This  is  an  excellent  plan  for  persons  who  like  hard  boiled  eggs,  or 
for  invalids,  as  eggs  cooked  for  this  length  of  time  can  be  easily 
digested,  oy  the  most  delicate  stomach. 

SCRAMBLED. 

Beat  up  a  dozen  eggs  and  turn  them  into  a  pan  in  which  a  little 
butter  has  been  allowed  to  melt ;  throw  in  finely  chopped  boiled 
Lam  or  parsley,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  toss  about  rapid- 
ly, to  prevent  sticking.     Serve  upon  buttered  toast. 

POACHED. 

Carefully  break  fresh  eggs  into  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water; 
have  ready  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  when  the  white  part  haa 
set  round  the  yolks,  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  each  one 
upon  a  slice  of  bread.     They  are  seasoned  at  table. 

BUTTERED  EGGS. 

Warm  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  pepper  and  salt,  or 
other  seasoning.  Break  in  the  eggs,  stirring  them  very  quickly 
with  a  fork  over  the  fire,  and  take  them  off  instantly  they  begin  to 
set.  Continue  the  stirring  for  a  minute,  and  serve  on  buttered 
toast. 


126  EGGS. 


FRIED  (with  ham.) 

Break  eggs  one  by  one,  into  a  saucer,  and  slip  them  into  a  pan 
in  which  ham  has  been  lightly  and  quickly  browned,  (not  dried  up,) 
and  fry  them  a  light  brown  on  the  underside ;  by  this  time  they 
will  have  assumed  consistency  on  the  top,  and  must  be  taken  up 
carefully  with  a  fish-slice  or  skimmer,  without  turning,  and  placed 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  the  ham  occupying  the  centre 

OMELET. 

The  proper  way  to  make  an  omelet  is  to  take  three  tea-spoons- 
ful of  milk  for  each  Qgg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  to  each  one  also  ;  beat 
the  eggs  lightly  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  pour  them  into  a 
hot  pan  in  which  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  has  been 
melted  a  moment  before ;  the  mass  will  begin  to  bubble  and  rise 
immediately,  and  the  bottom  must  be  lifted  incessantly  with  a  clean 
knife  so  that  the  softer  parts  run  in.  An  omelet  should  be  cooked 
three  or  fbur  minutes,  and,  made  in  this  way,  will  melt  in  the 
mouth.  If  desired,  beat  with  the  eggs  finely  chopped  ham  or 
parsley.  In  sliding  the  omelet  from  the  pan  to  the  dish,  fold  it 
double. 

PUFF   OMELET. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  light,  mix  with  a  small  tea-cup  of 
milk,  and  little  salt.  Beat  together  of  sweet  butter  and  flour  each 
a  table-spoonful  until  smooth ;  add  the  mixture  to  the  custard,  and 
beat  the  whole  well  together.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  when 
it  appears  to  thicken  add  the  whites,  well  beaten  ;  dust  over  a  trifle 
of  salt,  and  when  the  whole  is  stiff,  remove  carefully  to  the  dish. 

OMELET   WITH   KIDNEYS. 

Take  a  calf's  kidney  roasted,  chop  it  finely  and  beat  it  with  the 
eggs ;  cook  them  as  directed  for  plain  omelet. 

OMELET    WITH    HERBS. 

Beat  half  a  dozen  eggs  as  for  plain  omelet,  chop  fine  parsley 
and  cives,  take  two  table-spoonsful  of  parsley ;  and  one  of  cives 
beat  with  the  eggs,  and  put  all  in  a  pan  in  which  three  or  four 


E(JGS.  127 

ounces  of  butter  are  melted ;  fry,  dropping  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg  under  it  when  half  done,  so  that  it  will  not  adhere 
to  the  pan,  and  serve  hot. 

ASPARAGUS    AND   EGGS. 

/  Boil  the  good  part  of  the  asparagus  in  water  and  a  little  salt, 
drain  it  and  chop  it  fine,  beat  it  with  the  eggs  as  for  omelet ;  put 
it  in  a  pan  with  hot  butter  in  it,  fry  and  serve  hot.     Sorrel  may  be 


EGGS    AND    APPLES. 

y  Beat  up  the  eggs  as  for  omelet,  pare  and  slice  the  apples,  fry 
them  in  a  little  butter,  take  them  out,  and  stir  them  in  with  the 
eggs.  Melt  a  little  butter  in  the  pan,  put  in  the  eggs  and  apples ; 
fry,  turning  over  once  and  serve  it  hot. 

EGGS    AND    MUSHROOMS. 

Dress  and  chop  the  mushrooms,  beat  them  with  the  eggs  as  for 
omelets,  melt  a  little  butter  in  the  pan,  and  put  them  in  ;  fry  them, 
and  serve  hot. 

FANCY    OMELET. 

/  Make  four  omelets  of  three  or  four  eggs  each,  one  plain,  one 
'  with  herbs,  one  with  apples,  one   with  asparagus  or  sorrel.     Serve 
on  the  same  dish,  one  lapping  over  the  other. 

EGGS    AND    HERRINGS. 

Beat  up  three  or  four  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  required, 
with  pepper,  a  little  parsley,  a  green  onion  cut  very  fine.  Also 
open  a  red  herring  at  the  back,  broil  it  and  mince  it  fine.  Add  all 
together,  and  fry  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  grease.  No  salt  is 
required,  as  the  herring  is  salt  enough. 

EGGS    AND   CHEESE. 

,  Into  a  pie  dish  put  four  or  five  spoonsful  of  cream,  or  milk 
/thickened  with  flour;  break  into  it  some  six  or  eight  eggs  without 
breaking  the  yolks;  sprinkle  over  the  whole  some  grated  cheese, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Bake  in  an  oven,  without  allowing  the  yolks 
to  harden. 


128  EGGS. 


PICKLED   EGGS. 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish  to  pickle,  cover  them  with  cold 
water,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  boil  Jive  minutes.  Take 
off  and  put  into  cold  water ;  remove  the  shells  carefully,  and  put 
the  eggs  in  a  jar.  Take  as  much  strong  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them,  with  cloves,  allspice,  black  pepper,  and  a  little  red  pepper; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  it  upon  the  eggs,  with  a  little  salt. 
Cover  down  when  cold.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  three  days, 
but  are  best  when  about  a  week  old. 

TO   PRESERVE   EGGS. —  1. 

Make  a  pickle  of  quick  lime  and  salt  strong  enough  to  bear  up 
an  Qgg.  Put  in  your  eggs  point  downward,  and  they  will  keep 
perfectly  for  a  year.  Another  method  is  to  rub  the  outside  of  each 
^g,g  with  a  piece  of  fried  fat,  and  then  put  them  in  a  jar,  small  end 
downward,  in  which  has  been  placed  a  layer  of  coarse  salt.  Al- 
ternate a  layer  of  salt  with  a  layer  of  eggs  until  the  jar  is  filled, 
rubbing  each  Qgg  with  grease,  and  placing  always  the  small  end 
down.  Cover  down  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  they 
will  keep  from  June  to  June  again. 


TO   PRESERVE   EGGS 


9 


Store  them  away  before  they  are  twenty-four  hours  old.  Pack 
them  in  a  cask  with  plenty  of  bran,  taking  care  that  they  do  not 
touch  each  other.  Another  method  is  to  place  them  in  a  box,  small 
end  downwards,  in  salt  which  entirely  covers  them. 


VEGETABLES. 


BOILED   POTATOES. 

New  potatoes  are  scraped  instead  of  peeled.  In  peeling,  the 
thinner  the  portion  taken  otf,  the  better.  The  nutriment  of  a  po- 
tato is  contained  within  half  an  inch  of  its  surface,~and  careless 
hacking  with  a  large  knife  will  waste  half  of  it.  Late  in  the  sea- 
son, when  potatoes  are  old,  they  may  be  pared  and  put  to  soak  in 
cold  water  four  or  five  hours  before  cooking.  In  boihng  put  a 
small  handful  of  salt  in  the  water,  and  let  it  boil  before  putting  in 
the  potatoes.  Pour  the  water  off,  and  let  them  stand  uncovered 
near  the  fire  to  dry.  To  steam  them,  the  pot  may  be  returned  to 
the  fire  covered  with  a  coarse  cloth.  The  water  should  be  poured 
oIT  the  moment  they  show  a  tendency  to  crack,  or  a  fork  will  pass 
easily  through  them.  The  potatoes  for  each  mess  should  be  of  as 
equal  size  as  possible. 

MASHED    POTATOES. 

After  being  boiled  break  them  to  a  paste  and  season  with  a  lit- 
tle butter,  salt  and  cream  or  milk.  If  any  are  left  over  press  them 
down  in  a  dish,  and  the  next  morning  cut  m  slices  and  fry  brown, 
with  butter  and  pepper  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

FRIED     POTATOES. 

Peel  half  a  dozen  medium  potatoes,  cut  them  up  small,  and  put 
them  into  cold  water  for  about  half  an  hour ;  take  them  out,  dr) 
with  a  towel,  and  put  them  in  a  frying-pan,  with  two  ounces  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt;  cover  down,  and  every  little  while,  shake 
and  turn  them ;  when  they  are  tender,  and  of  a  clear,  light,  rich 
brown,  thty  are  done  ;  the  grease  should  be  drained  off  from  them, 
and  thc}  are  ready  to  send  to  table. 
6* 


130  '  VEGETABLES. 


POTATO   SHAVINGS. 

Wasli  and  peel  three  or  four  large  potatoes,  then  continue  cut- 
ting them  into  thin  wide  ribbons,  as  evenly  as  possible.  Have 
ready  boiling  fat,  drop  ihem  into  it ;  when  they  are  done  a  ligh* 
brown  drain  them  well  over  the  stove  and  send  them  to  table  im- 
mediately, before  they  lose  their  crispness 

STEWED    POTATOES. 

Pare  the  potatoes,  cut  them  in  slices,  throw  them  into  hot  water 
to  rinse,  then  put  them  in  the  sauce  pan  with  boilmg  water  enough 
for  gravy.  AVhen  nearly  done  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  butter ;  and  thicken  with  flour  batter.  Let  it  boil  up  two  or 
three  times,  and  send  to  the  table. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

The  most  wholesome  method  of  preparing  potatoes  is  to  bake 
them  in  hot  ashes,  and  eat  them  with  butter.  To  bake  them  in  a 
stove,  wash  and  rinse  them,  place  them  on  a  tin,  and  let  them  re* 
main  in  the  oven  about  two  hours.  Send  them  to  the  table  with 
the  skins  on,  or  mash  them  with  a  little  salt  and  gravy  or  cream. 
They  are  very  good  served  with  cold  meat. 

POTATO    PIE. 

Make  a  thin  pie-crust  in  the  usual  way,  and  line  with  it  a  basin 
or  deep  pie-dish.  Fill  to  the  top  with  finely-shred  potatoes,  among 
which  mix  an  onion  or  two,  sliced  very  thin,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
a  little  butter,  dripping,  or  lard.  Pour  overall  as  much  good  milk 
or  CI  cam  as  the  dish  or  basin  will  hold.  Either  cover  with  a  crust 
or  not,  according  to  option,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Take  two  pounds  of  very  mealy  boiled  potatoes,  mash  them 
very  fine  with  a  little  salt,  mix  them  with  two  pounds  of  flour,  add 
milk  enough  to  beat  this  into  dough,  beating  it  up  with  a  spoon, 
and  put  in  a  little  yeast.  Set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise,  and  when 
It  has  risen,  divide  it  into  cakes  the  size  of  a  muffin,  and  bake  them. 
These  may  be  cut  open  and  buttered  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  131 


POTATO   PUDDING. 

Mash  up  well  all  your  cold  potatoes  with  a  fork,  moisten  with 
milk,  add  two  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  two  table-spoonsful  of 
minced  onions,  and  one  ounce  of  grease  to  every  pound  of  mashed 
potatoes.  Put  into  a  basin,  bake  till  brown,  which  will  be  about 
half  an  hour,  and  serve  hot. 

POTATOES   A    LA   CREME. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  dessert  spoonful 
of  flour,  some  parsley  and  scallions,  both  chopped  small,  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  these  up  together,  add  a  wine  glass  of  cream,  an<i  set 
it  on  the  fire,  stirring  continually  until  it  boils.  Cut  some  boiled 
potatoes  into  slices,  and  put  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  mix- 
ture, boil  all  together,  and  serve  them  very  hot. 

SCOLLOPED    POTATOES. 

Beat  boiled  potatoes  fine  with  cream,  a  large  piece  of  butter  and 
some  salt.  Put  it  in  scollop  shells,  smooth  them  on  the  top, 
score  with  a  knife,  lay  thin  slices  of  butter  on  them  and  brown 
them  quickly  before  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven. 

TO    BOIL   VEGETABLES    GREEN. 

Dress  them,  and  throw  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water  which 
has  been  salted  and  well  skimmed ;  boil  them  fast  until  well  done, 
keeping  them  uncovered,  but  being  careful  that  they  are  not  smok- 
ed. If  the  water  is  hard,  a  third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate 
of  soda  may  be  added  with  the  salt  to  improve  the  color,  but  too 
much  will  injure  them,  and  if  green  peas  are  being  boiled,  will  re- 
duce them  to  a  mush. 

GREEN   CORN. 

Tak3  two  dozen  ears  of  green  corn  well  cleaned  from  the  silk, 
slightly  cut  off  the  edge  of  the  kernels  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 
scrape  the  remainder  off.  Place  in  a  pot  with  two  tea-cupsful  of 
water.  When  cooked  out  so  there  is  danger  of  burning,  thin  with 
sweet  milk;  when  done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  butter 
to  your  taste. 


132  VEGETABLES. 


GREEN  CORN  ON  THE  EAR. 

Select  a  dozen  more  or  less,  of  nice,  young  ears,  free  them  from 
every  particle  of  silk,  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  with  a 
table-spoonful  of  salt.  If  very  young,  fifteen  minutes  will  cook 
them.  As  the  corn  grows  older,  it  will  require  more  time.  Serve 
hot,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

CORN    OYSTERS. 

Take  six  ears  of  boiled  corn,  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoonsful  of  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  very  thick ;  cut  the  corn  off  the 
cob,  season  it  with  popper  and  salt ;  mix  it  with  the  yolks,  and  add 
the  flour.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them  in  with  the 
corn  and  yolks ;  put  a  dessert-spoonful  at  a  time  in  a  pan  of  hot 
butter,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

SPRING    GREENS. 

Young  beet  and  turnips  tops  make  nice  greens  in  the  early 
spring.  Pick,  and  wash  them  carefully  from  dust  and  insects,  and 
boil  with  then)  a  small  j)iece  of  salt  pork,  bacon,  ham  or  corned 
beef.  Drain  free  from  water,  and  serve  with  vinegar.  They  may 
be  boiled  plain,  and  served  with  gravy  sauce. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Strip  off  the  kernels  from  a  dozen  ears  of  nice  sweet  corn,  very 
close  to  the  ear,  with  a  sharp,  thin  knife.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  quart  of  Lima  beans,  a  little  veal  stock  or  gravy  or  plain 
water,  and  let  them  simmer  steadily,  till  the  moisture  is  absorbed, 
and  the  corn  and  beans  tender.  Add  then,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  let  all  simmer  to- 
gether  until  thoroughly  amalgamated.  Serve  in  covered  dish. 
Succotash  is  very  good  made  with  string  beans,  cut  small,  and 
boiled  with  a  slice  of  sweet  salt  pork ;  it  then  requires  neither  milk 
nor  butter. 

SQUASH   FRITTERS. 

One  pint  of  cooked  squash,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs  and  a 
little  salt,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  them  turn  easily  on  the  grid- 
dle. 


VEGETABLES.  133 


BOILED   SQUASH. 

Peel  a  nice  spring  squash,  take  out  the  seeds  and  coarse  part 
from  the  centre,  cut  it  up  in  slices,  and  put  it  to  stew  with  a  little 
water,  in  a  small  covered  saucepan.  When  it  is  quite  tender, 
mash  it,  put  to  it  a  spoonful  of  cream  or  a  little  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  keep  hot,  till  wanted  for  the  table. 

SEA    KALE. 

This  should  be  boiled  quite  white,  in  milk,  and  may  be  served 
on  toast  like  asparagus. 

STEWED   CUCUMBERS. 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  peel  and  remove  the  seeds,  boil  until  ten* 
der,  and  serve  with  toasted  bread  and  sweet  cream. 

SALSIFY    OK   VEGETABLE    OYSTER. 

The  roots  look  like  horseradish ;  they  must  be  well  scraped,  cut 
in  two,  and  parboiled.  The  water  is  then  drained  off,  the  plant 
cut  up  fine  and  boiled  up  in  milk,  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
sak.  Some  persons  think  it  acquires  more  the  taste  of  the  oyster, 
by  having  a  little  cod-fish  stirred  among  it,  but  we  prefer  it  with- 
out. 

JERUSALEM    ARTICHOKES. 

They  should  be  boiled,  putting  them  at  first  into  cold  water,  and 
must  be  taken  up  the  moment  they  are  done,  or  they  will  be  too 
soft.  They  may  be  boiled  plain,  .or  served  with  white  fricassee 
sauce.  When  boiled,  if  rubbed  through  a  sieve  with  some  fresh 
butter  and  cream,  they  form  a  splendid  purre  as  a  sauce  for  cutlets, 
or  as  a  thickening  for  some  sorts  of  white  soup,  or  they  may  be 
sliced  and  fried. 

ARTICHOKE  FRACIS. 

Having  parboiled  the  artichokes,  remove  the  middle  leaves,  pare 
it,  stuff  the  centre  with  forcemeat  vand  bake  them  until  the  meat  is 
done.     Serve  with  melted  butter. 


134  VEGETABLES 


MASHED   TURNIPS. 

Pare  the  turnips,  cut  them  in  half  a^nd  boil  in  a  pot  with  either 
beef,  mutton,  or  lamb.  When  they  become  tender,  press  the  li- 
quor from  them  and  mash  them  with  pepper  and  salt.  They  may 
be  served  in  this  way,  or  they  may  be  sent  to  the  table  whole, 
with  white  sauce. 

EGG  PLANT. 

This  is  a  delicious  vegetable.  Select  a  medium  sized  one.  Peel, 
and  cut  it  in  round,  thin  slices.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  betweeT> 
each  slice,  and  then  cover  them  down  with  a  bowl,  and  let  them 
stand  for  an  hour.  Then  rinse  off  the  salt  with  clear,  cold  water ; 
throw  away  the  liquid  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  which  will  be  dark 
colored ;  wipe  each  slice  dry,  dip  it  in  egg,  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  it  in  half  lard,  and  half  butter,  a  fine  brown. 

SPINACH. 

Pick  apart  and  wash  carefully  in  three  or  four  waters ;  put  into 
the  saucepan  with  a  Httle  salt.  Press  it  down  with  a  spoon  and  let 
it  boil  quickly  about  fifteen  minutes.  When  tender  turn  it  into  a 
colander,  and  press  out  the  water.  Place  it  in  the  dish,  raising 
it  with  a  fork  so  that  it  may  lie  hollow  ;  serve  with  melted  butter  or 
egg  sauce,  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings.  It  re- 
quires no  water  in  boiling,  the  expressed  juice  being  quite  suffi- 
cient to  keep  it  moist,  and  the  spinach  being  much  finer  without, 
than  with  it. 

DANDELIONS. 

These  are  relished  by  many  as  well  as  spinach  cooked  in  the 
fivne  way.  Take  the  young  leaves  before  the  plant  blossoms  or 
while  in  the  bud,  mash  quite  clean,  boil  tender  in  salted  water, 
drain  well  and  press  them  dry.  They  can  be  served  plain  with 
melted  butter,  or  can  be  chopped  and  heated  afresh  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
gravy  or  cream.  A  large  quantity  should  be  boiled,  as  they  dirink 
very  much.  The  dandelion  is  considered  very  healthy,  and  the 
slight  bitterness  is  relished  by  most  persons. 


VEGETABLES.  135 


FRENCH    BEANS. — 1. 

Well  drain  the  beans  ;  after  scalding  them,  color  some  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  toss  up  the  beans  in  it  over  the  fire,  season  them  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  when  dishing  up  add  a  very  little  vinegar. 

FRENCH  BEANS. — 2. 

String  the  beans,  cut  them  in  two  and  then  across,  sprinkle  them 
with  salt,  put  them  in  boiling  water  and  boil  them  up  quickly. 

YOUNG   BEETS   BOILED. 

Beets  are  sweeter,  and  better  when  young,  than  when  they 
have  attained  full  size.  Wash,  and  boil  them,  take  off  the  skins 
after  they  are  boiled,  and  put  over  them  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
butter.  When  they  have  grown  older,  they  require  vinegar,  and 
are  indeed  only  fit  for  a  pickle.  Be  careful  never  to  prick  beets 
in  putting  them  in  the  pot,  or  while  they  are  cooking,  as  that 
spoils  the  color,  and  injures  the  flavor. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  off  the  white  ends,  removing  most  of  that  which  is  hard ; 
scrape  the  hard  ends  a  little.  Put  them  in  cold  water  for  a  short 
time,  then  tie  them  up  in  small  bundles.  When  the  water  boils, 
put  them  in  with  a  little  salt ;  boil  until  tender,  about  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Toast  a  slice  of  bread  brown  on  both  sides. 
Take  them  up  carefully,  dip  the  toast  in  the  asparagus  water,  and 
lay  the  heads  on  it  with  the  white  ends  outwards.  Pour  melted 
butter  over  them,  and  if  desired  garnish  with  quarters  of  an 
orange. 

STEWED   TOMATOES. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  ripe  tomatoes  to  crack  the  skin,  so  that 
it  can  be  removed;  then  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  squeeze  out 
some  of  the  seeds  without  losing  too  much  of  the  juice,  then  stew 
them  without  water,  seasoning  them  with  butter  and  salt.  An 
onion,  chopped  fine  may  be  stewed  with  them.  Pepper  may  be 
added  while  stewing,  or  added  at  the  table  to  each  person's  taste. 


136  VEGETABLES. 


GREEN    PEAS. 

These  should  be  fresh  and  newly  shelled.  Wash  thtm  and  put 
them  into  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  with  a  few  leaves 
of  mint,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Stir  them  occasionally  and 
when  tender  drain  the  water  from  them,  sprinkle  on  a  little  saU 
and  serve  them  with  melted  butter. 

ONIONS,  BOILED. 

Put  them,  after  being  peeled,  in  boiling  water.  Then  when  they 
are  tender  pour  the  water  off,  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
milk,  stew  them  up  again  and  send  them  to  the  table  hot. 

FRICASSEED    PARSNIPS. 

Boil  them  in  water  until  they  are  tender,  then  cut  them  into 
pieces  two  or  three  inches  long,  slice  them  and  stew  them  in  half  a 
cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  broth,  a  piece  of  floured 
butter,  and  pepper  and  salt. 

FRIED   PARSNIPS. 

Boil  them  tender ;  when  they  are  cool,  slice  them  lengthwise, 
and  fry  them  with  some  thin  slices  of  boiled  salt  pork.  Put  in  the 
parsnips  when  the  fat  is  hot,  pepper  them,  brown  them  on  both 
sides ;  crisp  the  pork,  and  serve  with  them. 

BOILED   PARSNIPS. 

Wash,  scrape,  cut  out  every  speck  or  discoloration,  and  if  large 
divide  them.  Put  them  in  boiling  water,  skim  it  occasionally  and 
let  them  boil  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Servt>  *hem  mashed 
or  plain,  with  melted  butter. 

PORTUGAL  O^^ONS   STEWED. 

Boil  in  water  until  they  begin  to  soften,  let  them  drain,  put  in  a 
Btewpan,  cover  with  good  thick  brown  gravy ;  let  them  remain 
until  they  are  perfectly  tender,  and  send  them  to  table. 

PORTUGAL  ONIONS   FRIED. 

Peel  and  cut  them  in  slices ;  fry  in  butter  or  lard,  or  fat  from 


VEGETABLES.  137 

cooking  meat ;   stir  constantly  while  frying,  and  let  them  be  of  a 
dark  brown  color. 

MM  A    BEANS. 

Shell  the  beans,  put  them  in  a  considerable  water,  boiling  with 
pickled  parsley  and  siifHcient  salt ;  ])oil  them  quickly,  and  when 
done  strain  off  the  water  .  take  them  out,  and  season  them  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  garnish  with  boiled  parsley. 

BEST    PORK    AND    BEANS. 

Pick  over  a  quart  of  small  white  beans,  put  them  to  soak  over 
night.  Set  them  to  boil  the  next  mornmg,  throwing  off  the  water, 
just  before  they  reach  boihng  point.  Cover  with  cold  water 
again,  put  in  a  square  pound  of  nice  sweet  salt  pork  and  let  both 
boil  together  till  the  beans  are  tender.  When  the  beans  are  done, 
the  water  should  have  all  become  absorbed ;  they  are  then  put  in 
one  pan  to  brown,  and  the  pork  in  another,  scoring  the  latter 
first,  through  the  skin.  Before  serving  set  the  pork  in  the  centre 
of  the  beans.     Serve  with  pickles  and  horseradish. 

BOILED   CARROTS. 

To  boil  carrots  in  their  own  juice,  wash  clean  and  scrape  them, 
cutting  out  discolored  spots ;  cut  them  in  rather  thick  slices  and 
throw  them  into  as  much  boiling  salted  water  as  will  cover  or  barely 
float  them,  and  no  more.  Boil  gently  till  they  are  tolerably  ten- 
der, then  boil  very  quickly  to  evaporate  the  water,  of  which  only  a 
spoonful  or  so  should  be  left  in  the  saucepan.  Sprinkle  on  them  a 
little  pepper,  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  turn  and 
toss  them  gently  till  their  juice  is  thickened  by  them,  and  adheres 
to  them  ;  serve  immediately.  They  are  improved  by  adding  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  with  the  butter  and  a  little  thick 
cream  mixed  with  a  very  little  flour  to  prevent  its  curdling.  Gra- 
vy may  be  used  instead  of  cream. 

CARROTS   WITH   PARSLEY. 

Take  boiled  carrots,  and  divide  them  down  the  length  once,  if 
very  large  divide  again ;  then  cut  them  in  slices  the  thickness  of  a 
silver  quarter  of  a  dollar.     Take  some  sprigs   of  parsley,  parboil 


135  VEGKTxVBLES. 

and  chop  them  small ;  then  put  the  sliced  carrots  into  a  stewpan 
with  the  chopped  parsley,  a  little  bit  of  butter,  some  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  little  cold  gravy ;  toss  them  over  the  fire  till  hot,  and 
serve. 

BOILED    CABBAGE. 

l^ake  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  the  head  in  halves  oi  quarters,  and 
boil  quickly  in  a  large  quantity  of  water,  until  done  Drain  and 
press  out  the  water,  chop  fine  and  season.  Boil  from  half  an  hour 
to  an  hour.  The  water  can  be  drained  off  when  the}  sre  half 
done,  and  fresh  water  added  if  desired. 

BROCCOLI. 

Cut  the  heads  with  short  btalks,  peel  off  the  hard  outside  skin, 
which  is  on  the  stalk  and  small  branches,  wash  them,  boil  them  fif- 
teen minutes,  tie  the  shoots  into  branches,  add  a  little  milk  or  cream, 
and  stew  gently  for  ten  minutes  more  until  the  stalks  are  tender. 
It  should  be  eaten,  like  asparagus,  on  toast  with  drawn  butter. 

BUTTERED    CABBAGE. 

Boil  cabbage  with  a  quanity  of  onions,  then  chop  them  together, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them  in  butter.  It  is  a  rather 
homely  but  savory  dish,  and  is  frequently  used  with  fried  sausages 
laid  over  it,  or  as  an  accompaniment  to  roast  beef 

A   CABBAGE   RELISH. 

Take  the  stalks  of  cabbage,  scrape  them,  leave  them  in  the  wa- 
ter all  night,  and  the  next  day  cook  them  like  vegetable  marrow, 
and  they  will  be  found  very  good. 

A    RED   CABBAGE    RELISH. 

Put  the  cabbage  sliced  into  a  stewpan,  with  sliced  onion  accord- 
ing to  taste ;  add  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  and  let  it  simmer  four 
or  five  hours,  stirring  frequently.  When  dished,  add  a  little  flour 
and  butter. 

RED   CABBAGE     STEWED. 

Afler  slicing  a  small  red  cabbage,  and  well  washing  it,  put  it 


VEGETABLES.  139 

into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  but  no  more  water 
than  will  hang  about  it  after  the  washing.  Cover  it  closely,  and  let 
it  stew  two  or  three  hours  or  until  very  tender,  and  shortly  before 
serving  add  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  vinegar,  and  give  it  one  boil 
over  the  fire.  It  may  be  served  with  cold  meat,  or  with  sausages 
on  it. 

FRENCH    CABBAGE 

Boil  together  as  many  different  vegetables  as  are  convenient,  but 
with  them  must  be  a  pint  of  split  peas,  and  a  cabbage  cut  into 
quarters,  and  tied  with  thread.  Add  two  spoonsful  of  nice  olive  oil, 
melted  butter,  or  cream,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  cooked  enough, 
pour  off  the  liquid,  (which  save  for  another  time,)  and  leave  the 
rest  to  stew. 

VEGETABLE   MARROWS. 

Peel  the  marrow,  then  divide  down  the  centre,  and  take  the 
seeds  out;  cut  the  marrow  in  pieces,  boil  until  quite  soft,  then 
drain  in  a  colander  until  all  the  water  is  out ;  beat  well  with  a  fork 
and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  sugar.  They  are  also 
very  nice  sliced  and  boiled,  then  laid  upon  toast,  with  melted  but- 
ter poured  over,  like  asparagus. 

VEGETABLE   MARROW   TART. 

Peel  and  core  the  marrow,  cut  into  small  pieces,  boil  until  quite 
soft,  drain  the  water  well  from  it,  and  beat  with  a  fork  until  all  the 
lumps  are  out.  Have  ready  three  eggs,  well  beaten  with  a  little 
milk,  mix  with  the  marrow  until  it  is  in  the  consistency  of  custard ; 
sweeten  it,  and  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  pour  into  shallow  dishes, 
lined  with  short  paste,  similar  to  baked  custards. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Break  off  the  green  leaves,  cut  the  flower  close  at  the  bottom, 
from  the  stalk  ;  if  large,  divide  into  four  quarters.  Put  into  cold 
water,  let  it  lie  not  over  an  hour,  then  put  into  boiling  milk  and 
water,  or  water  only — milk  makes  it  white — skim  while  boiling. 
When  the  stalks  are  tender,  take  it  up,  which  must  be  done  before 
it  loses  its  crispness.  Lay  it  on  a  cloth  or  colander  to  drain,  and 
serve  with  melted  butter. 


140  VEGETABLES. 


RAREBIT    CAULIFLOWER 

Put  into  a  frying  pan,  amidst  boiling  grease,  a  few  small  mush- 
rooms or  mushroom  buttons,  and  the  flower  part  of  a  cauliflower 
or  broccoli,  broken  into  sprigs.  Sprinkle  over  them  some  grated 
cheese,  and  baste  the  whole  well  from  time  to  time  with  the  hot 
grease.     This  is  a  delicious  food,  and  very  nutritious. 


PASTRY. 


PUDDINGS   AND   PIES. 


A  great  deal  has  been  said  lately  against  puddings  and  pies, 
and  desserts  generally.  People  have  been  warned  against  them 
as  unwholesome;  long  catalogues  of  diseases, —  in  fact,  all  the  ills 
that  flesh  is  heir  to,  have  been  laid  to  their  charge;  and  all,  we 
verily  believe,  without  any  more  reason  than  could  be  given  for 
stopping  the  use  of  fuel,  because  some  people  are  careless  enough 
to  set  fire  to  their  dresses,  or  their  houses. 

The  dessert  is  to  many  people  the  most  important  part  of  the 
dinner;  it  is  always  so  to  children,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  it 
should  not  be  just  as  healthy,  just  as  digestible  as  the  dinner.  In 
fact,  there  are  many  persons,  who  neither  eat  puddings  nor 
pies  themselves,  nor  allow  their  children  to  eat  them,  who  will  yet 
compel  them  to  swallow  tough,  ill-cooked  meat,  soggy  potatoes, 
and  bread,  heavy,  sour,  and  indigestible,  as  so  much  lead. 

Eating  is  not  merely  a  duty,  it  is  one  of  the  pleasures  of  life ; 
and  pains  should  be  taken  by  every  housekeeper  to  make  it  a 
source  of  as  much  enjoyment  as  possible.  The  dessert  is  the  holi- 
day part  of  the  dinner ;  it  is  a  subject  of  expectation  and  antici- 
pation— it  affords  an  opportunity  of  making  up  for  a  rather  slim 
6rst  course,  and  often  drives  away  the  unpleasant  remembrance  of 
a  cold  leg  of  mutton,  or  impenetrable  beef-steak. 

Of  course,  it  requires  a  little  time  and  judgment  —  every  detail 
of  housekeeping  does,  and  should  be  adapted  to  the  dinner  which 
has  preceded  it. 

When  the  meal  is  hot, —  and  hearty,  a  light,  simple  dessert  is 
sufficient,  but  when  it  consists  of  cold  meat,  or  some  make-shifl 
warmed  up  from  the  previous  day,  nice  fruit  puddings,  and  home- 
made pies,  deep  and  good,  are  very  welcome. 


142  PASTRY. 

We  always  suspect  a  man  who  does  not  like  pie  or  pudding,  just 
as  we  would  a  woman  that  did  not  love  children ;  he  is  sure  to  be 
cross,  and  hard  to  manage,  difficult  to  please,  and  never  feels  good 
natured,  not  even  after  his  dinner. 

Solid  flour  puddings  are  al.v ays  douoiful.  They  are  too  heavy 
fyjf  this  climate,  unless  made  a  very  important  part  of  the  dinner, 
Desserts  require  to  be  fruity, — fruity  in  substance,  fruity  in  flavor. 
We  do  not  condemn  all  pastry,  but  in  puddings  and  pies,  the  more 
fruit  and  less  paste,  the  better. 

Fruit  alone  makes  a  very  good  dessert ;  and  when  in  the  season, 
and  plentiful,  a  very  cheap  one.  Apples,  grapes,  melons,  pears, 
and  peaches,  are  all  fine  for  dessert,  and  can  be  used  singly,  or 
combined,  according  to  means,  and  occasion. 

Nuts,  with  apples,  are  excellent  in  winter  ;  but  nuts  should  never 
be  put  on  the  table  alone, — they  are  not  only  indigestible,  but  with- 
out juicy  fruit  as  an  accompaniment,  unpalatable.  A  dish  of  ap- 
ples, or  oranges,  will  be  found  a  very  welcome  addition  to  a  des- 
sert composed  of  any  kind  of  pie  or  pudding  in  which  fresh  fruit 
is  not  an  ingredient,  such  as  plain  rice,  corn  starch,  custard,  and 
the  like. 

Bread  and  butter,  apple-sauce,  and  a  cup  of  tea,  winds  up  a 
family  dinner  very  nicely,  on  washing  or  any  other  day,  when  it  Is 
not  convenient  to  have  anything  else. 

But  whatever  your  dessert  is  composed  of,  be  careful  to  have  it 
put  upon  the  table  with  due  ceremony.  Children  are  great  observ- 
ers of  small  matters  of  etiquette,  and  quickly  notice  the  difference 
between  company,  and  family  manners.  Do  not,  because  **  there 
is  no  one  present,"  allow  it  to  be  huddled  upon  the  table,  amidst  a 
confusion  of  meat  and  vegetables,  without  changing  the  plates,  or 
the  knives  and  forks,  and  brushing  off  the  table  cloth.  Go  through 
**  all  the  motions."  A  httle  ceremony  In  families  is  a  good  thing ; 
it  preserves  the  respect  of  the  members  for  themselves  and  each 
other ;  It  prevents  the  familiarity  which  breeds  contempt,  and  teaches 
children  how  to  behave  away  from  home.  If  circumstances  require 
a  degree  of  hurry  which  compels  you  to  waive  ceremony,  apologise 
as  you  would  to  fr\  nds,  were  they  present,  and  request  the  other 
members  of  the  famn'y  to  proceed  as  usual. 

But  be  sure,   young  housekeepers  and  young  mothers,  not  to 


PASTRY.  14S 

relinquish  your  pies  and  puddings,  it  is  one  way  of  appealing  to, 
and  winning  the  hearts  of  husbands,  and  children.  Moreover 
acquire  the  practice,  and  as  a  general  rule  make  them  yourself 
There  are  very  few  servants  that  can  be  trusted  with  the  use  of 
the  materials  required,  or  who  can  make  the  same  article  twice  alike 
It  is  also  a  privilege  which  a  good  wife  and  mother  will  not  like 
to  forego,  to  compound  the  particular  dish  of  which  husband  and 
children  are  so  fond,  and  which  they  will  always  remember  in  con- 
nection with  her  kind  heart,  and  skillful  hand,  as  long  as  they  live 
Who  that  has  lived  to  man's  or  womar's  estate,  but  remembers 
something  which  **  mother  "  used  to  make,  the  like  of  which  no  one 
could  make  or  e\er  will  again,  and  in  nineteen  cases  out  of  twenty 
it  is  some  especial  pie  or  pudding. 

POTATO   PIE   CRUST. 

Put  a  tea-cupful  of  rich  sweet  cream,  to  six  good  sized  potatoes 
after  they  have  been  well  boiled,  and  mash  fine.  Add  salt  to 
taste,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out  the  crust.  Handle  it  as  little  as 
possible.  It  is  better  not  to  put  crust  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  if 
the  fruit  is  very  moist,  for  it  will  be  clammy  from  the  moisture,  but 
let  the  under  crust  only  cover  the  rim  of  the  plate.  Prick  the  up- 
per crust  to  let  out  the  steam,  else  the  juiee  will  run  over.  This 
paste  is  excellent  for  apple  dumplings,  or  meat  pies,  and  may  be 
eaten  by  the  most  fastidious  dyspeptic. 

PUFF    PASTE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  the  best  wheat  flour,  four  ounces  of  sweet 
butter ;  divide  the  butter  into  three  parts ;  take  one  of  the  three 
pieces  and  rub  it  into  the  flour  with  the  hand,  till  well  mixed; 
then  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  water,  and  form  with  a  spoon  into 
a  very  stiff  paste  ;  put  it  on  a  marble  table  or  a  very  smooth  board, 
and  roll  it  out  once  each  way;  fold  the  four  ends  inwards,  and  roll 
first  lengthways,  and  then  sideways  ;  spread  on  half  the  remaining 
butter  in  little  pieces,  sprinkle  with  flour,  fold  and  roll  as  before ; 
spread  on  the  rest  of  the  butter  and  repeat  the  process ;  now  fold 
and  roll  twice,  and  put  it  away  to  cool  for  ten  minutes.  Roll  out 
the  paste  very  thin,  and  it  is  ready  for  whatever  use  required. 


144  PASTRY. 


CRUST  FOR   RAISED  PIES. 

Take  two  ounces  of  lard,  two  ounces  of  butter;  put  both  togeth- 
er into  a  stewpan  with  a  tea-cupful  of  water  to  boil ;  mix  it  with 
one  found  of  sifted  flour  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  first  with  a  spoon 
and  then  with  (he  hand.     Roll  out  as  other  crust  for  pies. 

SUET   CRUST    FOR   MEAT   PIES. 

Take  the  fibre  from  eight  ounces  of  soft  beef  suet,  and  pound  it 
to  a  soft  mash  ;  mix  it  with  one  pound  of  fine  flour ;  then  make  the 
crust  in  the  same  way  as  for  pufF  paste,  using  the  pounded  suet  in- 
stead of  butter.  It  may  be  used  for  a  pie  at  once,  without  setting 
it  aside  to  cool. 

MINCE   PIES. 

Mince  pies  are  not  healthful,  and  one  batch  in  a  season  is  quite 
sufl^icient.  A  shin  of  beef  boiled  down  till  very  tender,  one  pound 
of  nice  clear  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  . 
six  pounds  of  greening  apples  peeled,  cored  and  chopped,  three 
pounds  of  raisins  stoned,  three  of  currants  carefully  cleaned,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  cup  of  maple  syrup,  half  a  pound  of  cit- 
ron, shredded,  half  a  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel,  a  quart  of  the 
best  cider.  This  mixture  makes  rich  pies,  but  mince  pies  are  noth- 
ing if  not  rich.  These  are  also  particularly  fine  in  flavor.  In- 
stead of  cider,  some  persons  put  in  a  quart  of  Madeira  wine,  and 
a  little  brandy ;  but  it  is  better  not  to  use  alcohol  in  food  when  it 
can  be  avoided. 

ENGLISH    MINCE    PIES. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  good  chopped  beef,  three  and  a  half 
pounds  of  suet,  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  three  and  a 
half  pounds  of  currants,  seven  pounds  of  apples  chopped,  one 
pound  of  candied  citron,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  nut- 
megs, four  quarts  of  good  cider,  one  pint  best  vinegar,  salt,  a  pint 
of  golden  syrup.  Half  the  raisins  should  be  stoned  and  chopped, 
the  other  half  left  whole. 

The  quantity,  of  course,  may  be  reduced  or  increased ;  for  ex- 
ample, by  giving  five,  or  seven  pounds  of  beef,  to  fourteen  pounds! 


PASTRY.  14:5 

of  apples.  Fven  this  proportion  added  to  the  others  makes  splen- 
did pies.  To  our  taste,  the  proportion  of  suet  is  altogether  too 
large,  one  pound,  especially  if  a  shin  of  beef  is  used,  being  am- 
ple to  secure  rich  pies.  No  common  spices,  such  as  cloves,  or  all- 
spice, should  be  employed. 

MRS.    D.'s    MINCE    PIES. 

Five  pounds  of  beef,  three  of  apples,  one  of  suet,  two  of  raisins, 
two  of  currants,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  cloves,  two  of 
mace,  two  of  cinnamon,  two  of  allspice,  one  tumbler  of  brandy, 
one  cup  of  wine,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  molasses. 

SQUASH     PIE. 

Having  pared  the  squash  and  removed  the  seeds,  stew  it  till  soft 
and  dry,  then  pulp  it  through  a  colander.  Stir  into  the  pulp 
enough  sweet  milk  to  make  it  thick  as  batter;  spice  with  ginger, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg,  or  whatever  is  liked  ;  sweeten  with  sugar,  and 
add  four  well-beaten  eggs  for  each  (juart  of  milk  used.  Fill  a 
pie-plate  lined  with  crust  and  bake  for  about  an  hour. 

CUSTARD    PIES. 

Very  nice  custard  pies  are  made  with  two  eggs,  and  two  largo 
table-spoonsful  of  corn  starch  to  a  quart  of  milk ;  sweeten  and 
spice  to  taste ;  add  also  salt ;  the  corn  starch  should  be  mixed 
smooth  with  milk  anrl  the  eggs  beaten  up  in  it,  then  thin  out  with 
more  milk  ;  sweeten,  season,  pour  into  pans  lined  with  paste,  and 
grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

APPLE    CUSTARD    PIES 

Grate,  or  stew  to  a  pulp,  twelve  large  apples ;  to  this  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  sugar,  nutmeg,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pint  of 
cream  or  milk,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  the  grated 
rind  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one ;  pour  the  mixture  into 
plates  lii'ed  with  rich  paste,  and  arrange  strips  in  a  network  ovei 
the  top;  bake  a  light  brown,  and  sift  over  them  powdered  sugar. 

LEMON   PIE. — 1. 

One  lemon,  one  orange,  one  sour  apple,  all  peeled,  seeds  taken 
7 


146  PASTRY. 

out,  and  sliced  thin ;  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one  teacupful 
of  Water,  and  stew  till  soft;  set  aside  to  cool,  and  add  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar,  same  of  molasses,  and  a  table-spoon  heaping  full 
of  flour;  this  makes  one  pie  the  size  of  a  large  dinner  plate. 

LEMON    PIE. — 2. 

One  cup  of  hot  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch,  one  e  ip 
of  white  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  one  eggy  bake  with  a 
top  and  bottom  crust.     This  Is  for  one  pie. 

KITTY   may's   lemon   CREAM   PIE. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  white  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three  table-spoonsful  of  sifted  flour,  milk  to 
fill  the  plate.  This  makes  a  large  pie,  and  should  be  made  with 
an  under  crust,  but  not  any  top  crust.  Bake  until  nearly  done, 
then  take  from  the  oven,  and  pour  over  it  a  frosting  made  of  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  and  two  table-snoonsful  of  powder- 
ed sugar,  then  set  back  in  the  oven,  and  brown  hghtly.  One  of 
the  best  pies  ever  eaten. 

SWEET  APPLE  PIE. 

Pies  made  of  sweet  apples  used  in  precisely  the  same  way  as 
pumpkins,  omitting  the  ginger  and  adding  a  little  lemon.  If  liked, 
for  seasoning,  are  better  to  the  taste  of  some  than  pumpkin  pie 
itself.  Pare  cut,  and  stew  the  apples.  If  cooked  in  a  covered 
deep  earthen  or  other  dish  In  the  oven,  they  are  better.  Strain 
through  a  colander,  add  a  little  milk,  cream  Is  better.  If  there  be 
no  eggs  to  spare,  stir  In  a  handful  of  flour,  or  about  a  spoonful  to 
a  pie.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

GREEN    APPLE   PIE. — 1. 

Crate  raw,  six  good  apples,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  melted  butter,  four  eggs,  a  little  l«mon  juice,  a  few 
dried  currants,  and  a  little  spice ;  line  plates  uith  a  paste,  fill  and 
bake  without  an  upper  crust.  One  or  two  tea  -spoonsful  of  brandy 
may  be  iscd  in  the  pie  if  desired. 


PASTRY.  147 


GREEN    AVPLE    PIE. — 2.  ^ 

Take  ripe  and  rather  tart  apples  such  as  pippins,  ru?sets  or 
greenings  ;  pare,  core,  and  cut  them  into  very  thin  slices,  fill  the  un- 
der crust,  throw  over  them  slices  of  fresh  lemon,  cinnamon,  and 
plenty  of  white  sugar ;  lay  on  the  upper  crust  and  bake  in  a  mild 
(  ven. 

ENGLISH    APPLE    PIE. 

Lay  some  paste  crust  round  the  sides  of  a  deep  dish,  quarter 
the  apples  and  take  out  the  cores.  Put  in  a  thick  layer  of  apples, 
cover  with  half  the  sugar  you  intend  for  your  pie,  sorne  lemon 
peel  grated  fine  and  a  few  cloves ;  then  put  in  the  rest  of  the  ap- 
ples and  sugar,  and  add  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  boil  the  cores  and 
peelings  of  the  apples  in  water  with  a  blade  of  mace,  until  they 
are  soft,  then  press  it  through  a  colander ;  boil  it  with  sugar,  and 
pour  it  in  the  pie  with  a  little  quince  or  marmalade.  Put  on  the 
upper  crust  and  bake. 

FPvUIT     PIES. 

Fruit  pies  should  be  eaten  fresh  and  baked  in  tolerably  deep 
earthen  platters.  Their  excellence  consists  in  a  small  quantity 
of  pastry  and  a  large  amount  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Line  the  dish 
with  good  paste,  leaving  half  an  inch  to  project  over  the  edge. 
Fill  with  fruit,  and  cover  thickly  with  sugar ;  no  spice  is  needed 
for  fresh  small  fruit  pies.  Put  on  a  lid  of  pufF  paste,  and  bring 
the  outer  edge  of  the  under  paste  up  and  over  it,  moistening 
slightly  with  cold  water,  so  that  it  will  fasten  down  tight.  This 
prevents  the  juice  from  boiling  out.     Notch  the  edge  and  center. 

CHERRY,  PLUM,  OR  GOOSEBERRY  PIE.   {English  method.) 

Make  a  good  crust  and  lay  a  little  around  the  sides  of  a  deep 
dish.  Cover  the  bottom  with  sugar,  and  lay  in  the  cherries, 
plums,  or  gooseberries  whole,  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

WHORTLEBERRY   PIE. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries,  place  them  an  inch  thick  on  the 


148  '      '  PASTRY. 

under  crust,  cover  them  thickly  with  sugar,  put  on  the  upper  crust 
and  bake  half  an  hour.  Other  berry  pies,  such  as  blackberry  and 
raspberry,  are  made  in  the  sanie  way.  They  require  no  spice  ;  but 
we  think  whortleberries  are  greatly  improved  by  having  a  few  red 
currants,  or  the  juice  of  a  lemon  sprinkled  among  them.  Sift 
powdered  sugar  over  all  fruit  pies  before  serving. 

PUMPKIN    PIES. 

Take  a  small  pumpkin,  or  half  of  a  large  one,  stew  long  and 
slowly,  then  strain  it,  after  peeling,  and  cutting  it  in  small  pieces. 
Mix  with  this  quantity  of  pulp,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs, 
and  two  table-spoonsful  of  corn  starch  mixed  first  smooth  with  a 
little  of  the  milk.  Salt,  sugar,  and  ginger  must  be  put  in  to  taste. 
A  large  cup  of  sugar  is  about  right ;  one  nutmeg.  The  ginger  is 
indispensable  to  a  genuine  pumpkin  pie.  If  part  cream  can  be 
used  the  pie  is  much  richer,  as  well  as  more  delicate  in  flavor. 
Bake  with  an  under  crust  only, 

COCOANUT   PIE. 

For  three  pies  one  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  grated  cocoa- 
nut.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  to  sweeten,  and  stir  into 
the  milk  when  hot ;  then  add  the  cocoanut  and  spice.  Put  it  in  a 
rich  paste,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

GRAPE    PIE. 

Pop  the  pulps  out  of  the  skins  into  one  vessel,  and  put  the  skins 
into  another.  Then  simmer  the  pulp  a  little  and  run  it  through  a 
colander  to  separate  the  seeds.  Then  put  the  skins  and  pulp  to- 
gether and  they  are  ready  for  jugging,  or  for  pies.  Pies  prepared 
in  this  way  can  hardly  be  distinguished  from  plum  pies. 

RHUBARB    PIE. 

Take  off  the  thin  skin,  cut  the  stalks  in  small  pieces,  add  a  little 
flour,  place  it  in  the  pie.  When  the  paste  is  done  remove  the  top 
crust  and  add  sugar  and  butter,  mixing  it  thoroughly  with  the  rhu- 
barb. Put  the  top  crust  on  and  serve  warm.  A  little  nutmeg  may 
be  grated  over  the  top  of  the  fruit  before  patting  on  the  crust,  if 
it  is  relished. 


PASTRY.  149 


MOCK    APPLE   PIE. 

Two  soda  crackers,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  of 
water,  the  juice  and  yellow  rind  grated  of  a  lemon.  This  a  good 
recipe  for  Spring  use. 

DRIED    APPIJ^:   PTES, 

Wash  the  apples  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  put  them  to  soak 
in  rather  more  water  than  will  cover  them,  as  they  absorb  a  great 
deal.  After  soaking  an  hour  or  two,  put  them  into  a  preserving 
kettle  with  the  same  water,  and  with  the  thin  peel  of  one  or  two 
lemons,  chopped  fine.  Boil  tender ;  when  they  rise,  press  tlu^m 
down,  but  do  not  stir  them.  When  tender,  add  sugar,  and  boil 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  longer.  Dried  apples,  soaked  over  night, 
are  made  tasteless,  and  are  mashed  up  by  being  stirred.  When 
cooked,  stir  in  a  little  melted  butter,  some  cinnamon,  and  powdered 
cloves.     It  is  important  that  the  apples  should  be  of  a  tart  kind. 

DRIED    PLUM    PIES. 

Soak  the  plums,  and  stew  them  gently  ;  season  them  with  spice 
and  sugar  to  taste ;  put  a  puff  paste  on  to  the  plate ;  then  put  a 
layer  of  the  plums,  stewed ;  roll  out  a  piece  of  paste  thin,  cover 
them,  add  another  layer  of  plums,  and  cover  for  the  last  time. 
You  may  have  as  many  stories  to  your  pie  as  you  choose. 

CORN    MEAL   PIES. 

Stir  a  small  tea-cupful  of  very  fine  ground  Indian  meal  into  two 
quarts  of  boiling  milk;  when  nearly  cool  add  four  beaten  eggs, 
and  sweeten  to  taste,  like  a  custard,  adding  spice  and  orange  peel, 
if  desired.     J3ake  with  a  crust  like  custard  pie. 


PUDDINGS. 


BUFFALO    PUDDING. 


A  quart  of  flour,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  maizena,  a  salt  spoon  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  small  egg,  and  cold  water ;  mix  the  baking  powder  with  the 
flour  thoroughly,  put  in  the  salt  and  maizena,  and  mix  to  the  con- 
sistency of  drop  cake.  Have  the  butter  melted  and  stir  into  the 
mass.  In  berry  time,  drop  a  part  of  this  mixture  in  a  tin  pail,  or  a 
steamer  if  you  have  one,  which  has  been  buttered,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  berries  doing  up  with  batter.  In  the  winter,  chopped 
apples,  dried  currants,  or  any  kind  of  dried  fruit  are  an  excellent 
substitute.  Zante  currants  will  not  require  previous  soaking,  but 
common  garden  fruits  will.  Steam  the  pudding  for  one  hour  and 
a  half,  and  serve  with  liquid  sauce.  A  pudding  can  be  steamed  in 
a  tin  pail,  by  inverting  and  old  tin  cup,  and  setting  the  pail  upon 
it  in  the  pot.  Be  sure  that  the  water  boils  and  keeps  boiling,  and 
that  the  pail  is  covered  tight  by  its  lid.  This  pudding  contains  nei- 
ther milk  nor  eggs,  yet,  if  properly  made,  it  will  be  thought  by  the 
Lest  judges  to  possess  both.  When  mixed  with  milk  however,  it 
is  whiter  than  when  mixed  with  water. 

ENGLISH    AJ»PLE    PUDDING. 

Make  a  paste  of  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
finely  chopped  beef  suet,  a  little  salt,  and  cold  water.  Line  a 
pudding  bowl,  fill  with  tart  apples  cut  in  quarters.  Sprinkle  a  lit- 
tle sugar  on  the  top,  cover  with  paste,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  quar- 
ter. Turn  out,  and  serve  with  a  sweet  liquid  pudding  sauce,  spiced 
with  lemon,  and  ginger. 


PUDDINGS.  151 


APPLE   PUDDING. — 1. 

Stew  six  large  apples,  pared  and  cored,  in  six  table-spoonsful  of 
water  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  When  they  are  tender,  beat  them 
to  a  pulp  and  stir  with  them  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  a  cup  of 
tieam,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
Put  It  In  a  dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  bake  It,  and  when  done  stick 
chips  of  candied  tutron  and  lemon  peel  in  the  top. 

APPLE   PUDDING. — 2. 

Peel  six  apples,  take  out  the  core,  leaving  the  apple  whole,  fill 
them  with  sugar,  place  them  in  a  pudding-dish,  pour  over  them  a 
batter,  prepared  as  for  a  batter  pudding.  Bake  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

APPLE   PUDDING. — 3. 

Prepare  six  apples  as  for  sauce,  and  mix  with  them  two  ounces 
of  melted  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  bread  crumbs,  a  little 
cream,  nutmeg,  sugar.  Bake  In  small  cups,  turn  them  out  and 
serve  with  sifted  sugar. 

APPLE    PUDDING. — 4. 

Pare  and  chop  half  a  dozen  good  sour  apples.  Butter  a  puddlng- 
dlsh  and  put  In  a  layer  of  grated  bread  half  an  Inch  thick,  add 
small  bits  of  butter ;  put  In  a  layer  of  chopped  apples,  with  sugar 
and  nutmeg,  and  repeat  till  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  the  whole 
a  tea-cup  of  cold  water,  and  bake  thirty  minutes.     No  sauce. 

POOR  man's  pudding. 

Take  some  stale  pieces  of  bread,  pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
and  cover  down  tight.  When  they  have  absorbed  the  water,  and 
become  soft,  mash  them  to  a  pulp.  Mix  in  one  table-spoonful  of 
corn-starch,  one  egg,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  some  sugar,  and  a 
few  currants  cleaned  by  rubbing  in  a  colander  with  some  flour. 
Bake  in  a  dish  with  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  a 
little  nutmeg  grated  over.  It  Is  good  hot  or  cold,  and  when  cold, 
will  turn  out,  and  cut  like  an  English  cheese-cake.  It  is  also  inex 
pensive. 


152  PUDDINGS. 


VICTOKLA.   PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  mashed  potatoes,  half  a  pound  of  grated 
carrots,  half  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  half  a  pound  of  currants  or  raisins, 
three  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  lemon  peel  ani 
salt.  Stir  all  well  together ;  boil  four  hours  and  serve  them  with 
sauce. 

SARATOGA    PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  two  eggs,  and  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  tlour ;  mix  the  flour  with  cold  milk  to  the  consistence 
of  thick  cream  ;  boil  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  pour,  boiling  hot, 
upon  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time ;  add  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
sugar  to  your  taste,  and,  when  cool,  two  eggs  well  beaten;  have 
ready  a  buttered  dish,  pour  the  whole  into  it,  grate  lemon-peel  or 
nutmeg  over  it,  and  bake  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes.  It  should 
be  out  of  the  oven  fifteen  minutes  before  serving.  It  is  delicious 
to  eat  cold  with  fruit. 

INDIAN  FRUIT   PUDDING. 

IVIake  a  batter  of  a  pint  of  hot  milk  and  enough  corn  meal  to 
make  it  stiff,  add  a  little  molasses  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  then 
mix  in  a  pint  of  sweet  apples  chopped,  or  a  pint  of  huckleberries. 
Tie  it  in  a  wet  cloth,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell,  put  it  in  boiling 
water,  boil  three  hours  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

SNOW   PUDDING. — 1. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  roasted  apples,  carefully  sep- 
arated from  the  skin  and  core,  half  a  pound  of  powdered  lump 
sugar,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  First  beat  the  eggs  to  a  very 
stilf  (roth,  theri  add  by  dttgrees  first  the  sugar  and  then  the  ap- 
ples;  beat  all  together  for  an  hour,  until,  when  taken  up  in  the 
spoon,  it  stands  quite  stilf.  With  the  yolks  of  the  two  eggs  make 
a  sweet  custard  (or  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  build  the  snow  up 
by  spoonsful  to  any  height  you  please.  Savoy  cakes  and  sweet- 
meat likewise  laid  in  the  dish  are  an  improvement. 


PUDDINGS.  153 


SNOW   PUDDING. — 2. 

The  juice  of  three  lemons,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  whites  dF 
Ujreeeggs,  half  package  gelatine.  Let  the  gelatine  stand  half  an 
hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  then  throw  off  that,  and  add  a  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well,  then  add  the 
1 'inon-juice  and  gelatine,  and  beat  till  it  looks  like  snow. 

bird's  nest  pudding 

y  Peel  and  core  eight  tart  apples ;  in  each  hollow  stuff  sugar  and 
a  blade  of  mace,  or  a  little  cinnamon ;  make  a  batter  of  a  pint  of 
flour,  a  spoonful  of  corn-starch,  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  baking 
powder,  milk,  or  water,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter. 
Mix  almost  as  thick  as  drop  cake,  pour  over  the  apples,  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.     Eat  with  sauce. 

To  make  a  richer  pudding,  stew  the  apples  first,  but  gently,  and 
hot  so  as  to  break  them,  stuff  them  with  sugar,  and  citron,  pour 
over  a  sweet  custard,  and  bake.  Boil  it  two  or  three  hours  and 
serve  with  wine  sauce. 

WASHINGTON     PUDDING. 

/  Scald  and  pulp  the  apples,  add  well-beaten  eggs,  one  egg  for 
each  large-sized  apple,  an  ounce  of  butter  in  pieces,  a  little  cream, 
candied  or  grated  lemon  peel,  sugar,  and  a  table-spoonful  or  mo^^e 
of  brandy ;  bake  in  a  thin  paste,  in  a  mild  oven. 

FRUIT   PUDDINGS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  good  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  to  the  consistency  of  drop  biscuit,  with  coM 
milk  or  water,  add  two  table-spoonsful  of  melted  butter.  Butter  a 
mould  or  a  small  tin  pail,  and  lay  it  in  a  layer  of  the  batter,  then 
a  layer  of  any  kind  of  fresh  small  fruit,  alternating  them  until  the 
vessel  is  filled.  Cover  tight  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half.  Eat 
with  sweet  liquid  sauce.  This  is  excellent  without  either  milk  or 
e^gs. 

FIG     PUDDING. 

Haifa  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound    of  figs,  six  ounces  . 


154  '  PUDDINGS. 

of  moist  sugar,  four  ounces  of  suet,  two  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  a  tea-cupful  of  milk ;  the  figs  and  suet  to  be  chopped  very 
fine,  and  all  well  mixed  together ;  to  be  boiled  In  a  mould  for  four 
hours,  and  served  with  sweet  sauce ;  it  Is  good  fried  In  slices  next 
day,  with  pounded  sugar  sifted  over  It. 

ENGLISH    ROLL   PUDDING. 

Roll  out  half  an  Inch  thick  a  paste  made  of  suet  chopped  fme, 
flour,  water,  and  a  little  salt.  Spread  over  it  preserves  of  any 
small  kind — damsons,  currants,  berries,  or  the  like.  Dust  a  little 
flour  over  it,  roll  up,  wet  and  pinch  the  ends  tight,  and  tie  in  a  cloth 
which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water  and  well  floured.  Boil  or 
steam  one  or  two  hours,  according  to  size,  and  eat  hot  with  rich 
liquid  sauce. 

CITRON    PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  pound  of  sugar,  well  beaten  to- 
gether, half  pound  of  citron  cut  fine,  five  eggs,  and  grated  orange 
peel  to  taste.     Bake  in  puff  paste  half  an  hour. 

Minnie's  fruit  pudding. 

Mix  a  pound  of  red  currants,  stemmed,  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  raspberries,  have  ready  bread  and  butter  In  slices  ;  place  a  layer 
of  bread  and  butter  In  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish ;  then 
a  layer  of  fruit,  covered  thickly  with  sugar,  then  another  layer  of 
bread  and  butter,  and  so  on  till  the  fruit  is  used  up,  and  the  dish  ia 
full.  A  thick  layer  of  fruit  and  sugar  should  complete  the  top. 
Bake  slowly  for  an  hour,  and  serve  In  the  same  dish.  It  is  de- 
licious and  wholesome. 

LITTLE  BREAD  PUDDINGS.     {Birthday^, 

Steep  the  crumb  part  of  a  baker's  six  cent  loaf.  In  a  pint  of  milk, 
until  it  is  soft  and  warm.  Beat  up  two  eggs  with  some  sugar,  an 
ounce  of  butter  warmed,  a  little  essence  of  lemon,  and  a  little 
cream,  or  table-spoonful  of  condensed  milk.  Add  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  Zante  currants,  well  cleaned  and  floured.  Pour  into 
buttered  cups,  grate  nutmeg  over  them,  and  bake  half  or  three 
quarers  of  an  hour.     Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  155 


CHERRY   PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  quart 
milk,  grated  lemon  rind,  a  little  powdered  cinnamon,  and  salt. 
Mix  tliorougbly,  butter  a  mould,  and  spread  in  a  tbick  layer  of  the 
preparation,  and  then  a  layer  of  cherries,  then  another  layer  of 
bread,  etc.,  and  one  of  cherries,  alternately  until  it  is  filled.  Close 
tight,  and  steam  for  two  hours.  Eat  with  sweet  liquid  sauce. 
Blackberries  may  be  used  instead  of  cherries. 

INDIAN    HUCKLEBERRY    PUDDING. 

Take  a. quart  of  boding  milk  and  water,  stir  into  it  Indian  meal 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Add  a  little  salt,  a  small  cup  of 
chopped  suet,  a  little  molasses,  and  a  pint  of  huckleberries.  Boil 
one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  bag,  leaving  room  to  swell.  E'at  with 
sweet  liquid  sauce. 

Two  eggs  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  may  be  used  instead 
of  suet,  and  the  butter,  in  that  case  made  a  little  thinner.  This 
makes  a  more  delicate  pudding. 

LITTLE   BATTER   PUDDINGS. 

Make  a  smooth  batter  with  four  fresh  eggs,  four  table-spoonsful 
of  flour,  and  a  quart  of  new  milk.  Fill  little  buttered  cups,  and 
stick  in  chips  of  candied  citron,  or  lemon  peel.  Bake,  and  serve 
with  wine  saiace. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Soak  together  the  juice  and  peel  of  two  lemons,  the  peel  to  be 
rubbed  off  with  lumps  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  pounded, 
except  what  has  been  used  for  the  lemon  peel,  a  good  sized  tea-cup 
ful  of  grated  bread  crumbs ;  beat  up  four  eggs  leaving  out  two  of 
the  whites,  melt  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  mix  all  together. 
Edge,  and  trim  a  dish  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
bakein  a  quick  oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

ORANGE    PUDDING. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  four  ounces 
of  lump  sugar ;  grate  in  the  rinds  of  two  Seville  oranges,  also  the 


156  '  PUDDINGS. 

whole  of  a  large,  or  two  small  apples.  When  thoroughly  mixed 
add  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Spread  it  to  the  thickness  of  half  an 
inch  on  puff  paste.    Bake  quickly. 

ARROWROOT   PUDDING. 

Mix  four  spoonsful  of  arrow  root  with  a  teacup  of  new  milk, 
then  boil  nearly  a  quart  of  milk  and  stir  in  the  arrowroot.  When 
almost  cold  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  ounces  of  good  butter 
in  pieces,  two  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  and  a  Httle  grated  nutmeg, 
stir  all  together  and  bake  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  in  a 
buttered  dish. 

linnie's  apple  pudding. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  six  tart-apples  chopped  fine,  a  little 
finely  chopped  suet,  one  egg,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  a 
little  salt  mixed  to  the  consistency  of  drop  cake,  with  milk  or  milk 
and  water.  Boil  in  a  buttered  bowl  or  well  floured  bag  an  hour 
and  a  quarter,  and  serve  with  sweet  liquid  sauce  flavored  with  nut- 
meg. ^ 

AUNT    MARY^S    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  half  a  pound  fresh 
beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound  of  apples  chopped  fine,  half 
a  pound  of  currants,  same  of  chopped  raisins,  four  eggs,  one  pint 
of  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy,  another  of  sherry,  a  small  cup 
of  sugar,  a  salt-spoon  of  salt.  Boil  in  a  bag  four  hours,  eat  with 
rich  sweet  sauce. 

APPLE    AND    SAGO    PUDDING. 

Peel  and  core  as  many  apples  as  will  set  into  the  dish  in  which 
the  pudding  is  to  be  baked  ;  fill  the  cavity  in  the  cored  apples  with 
ground  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Take  as  many  dessert  spoonsful  of 
sago  as  you  liave  apples ;  mix  it  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will  be  required  to  fill  the  pudding  dish ; 
stir  it  all  the  time  till  itbegms  to  thicken  ;  then  cover  it  up  and  let 
it  stand  about  two  hours,  until  the  sago  swells.  Turn  it  into  the 
dish,  set  it  into  a  rather  hot  oven,  and  bake  it  one  hour.  Servo 
with  su<?ar  and  cream. 


PUDDINGS.  157 


BAKED   INDIAN   PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk  scalding  hot,  one  cup  of  Indian  mea  ,  one 
lialf  cup  of  molasses,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  small 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Wet  the  meal  with  cold  water,  and  pour 
the  boiling  milk  on  it  to  scald  it.  Add  one  egg  when  cold,  before 
baking.     Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

BOILED   RICE   PUDDING 

Pick  and  wash  very  clean  in  cold  water,  four  ounces  of  rice; 
add  six  ounces  of  raisins  and  mix  them  equally  through  the  rice ; 
place  them  in  a  pudding  bag,  leaving  sufficient  room  for  the  rice 
to  swell ;  boil  two  hours,  and  serve  it  with  melted  butter,  sugar, 
and  grated  nutmeg  upon  it. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

To  one  quart  of  milk  put  a  cup  of  rice,  and  simmer  slowly  until 
it  is  thick  and  the  rice  perfectly  tender.  Then  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  and  three  yolks  of  eggs  while 
it  is  hot,  with  salt  to  tase.  Pour  it  in  a  shallow  pudding  dish  lin- 
ed with  rich  paste,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  To  the  whites  of  the 
three  eggs  add  six  table-spoonsful  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice 
of  a  lenion,  (the  rind  should  have  been  grated  Into  the  rice  before 
baking,)  beat  it  up,  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  put  it  back 
in  the  oven  five  minutes. 

PORTUGUESE   RICE   PUDDING 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  In  water  until  It  begins  to  open,  then 
strain  it  from  the  water,  and  boil  it  slowly  with  a  quart  of  boiled 
milk,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  ;  when 
the  rice  is  sufficiently  boiled,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  take  out 
all  the  lemon  peel ;  stir  it  until  it  becomes  cool,  then  add  four  eggs 
that  have  been  well-beaten  (stirring  it  all  the  while)  and  a  wine- 
glassful  of  orange-flower  water;  when  these  ingredients  have  beeh 
properly  mixed,  pour  the  whole  into  a  flat  dish,  and,  when  cold 
cover  it  with  cinnamon  powder.  This  is  a  birthday  dish  in  Portu 
gal :  as  famous  there  as  plum-pudding  is  in  England. 


158  PUDDINGS. 


FRENCH    RICE   PUDDING. 

Put  a  pound  of  rice  into  a  pint  of  milk  and  let  them  simmei 
over  the  fire  until  the  milk  is  soaked  up  and  the  rice  soft.  Take 
it  from  the  fire,  and  when  somewhat  cooled  put  into  it  two  eggs,  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  loaf  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon,  and  stir  them  well  together;  then  butter  a  pudding 
mould,  sprinkle  in  a  layer  of  grated  bread  crust,  pour  in  the  rice 
and  bake  about  an  hour. 

APPLE   AND   RICE   PUDDING. 

Add  to  some  clean  rice,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  milk  to  boil  it 
soft;  with  a  little  sugar,  lemon-peel,  and  cinnamon.  Fill  a  large 
high  mould  with  the  rice ;  put  in  a  sauce  pan  of  water  and  let  it 
stand  in  the  oven  thirty  minutes.  Have  ready  some  fresh  apple 
sauce  sweetened,  and  of  lemon  peel  flavor.  When  the  rice  is 
done,  turn  it  out  of  the  mould  upon  a  dish,  and  fill  in  the  hollow 
centre  with  the  apple  sauce ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a 
froth  and  put  it  upon  the  apples  so  as  to  make  a  top  to  the  mould 
of  rice ;  sift  pounded  sugar  over  the  whole.  Brown  it  a  little  over 
the  top  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

RICE    FLOUR    PUDDING. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  pint  of  the  flour ;  boil  them  to  a 
pulp ;  beat  up  four  eggs,  to  which  add  six  spoonsful  of  sugar  and 
one  spoonful  of  butter,  which,  well  beaten  together,  add  to  the 
milk  and  flour;  grate  nutmeg  over  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a 
well-greased  dish. 

BADEN    PUDDING. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  milk,  a  teacupful  of  rice,  when  it  is  swelled  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  two  ounces  of  chopped  suet,  two 
eggs ;  stir  well  together  and  boil  in  a  buttered  mould.  Serve  with 
sweet  sauce,  flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

SEVILLE    PUDDING. 

Boil  in  a  quart  of  milk  a  teacupful  of  Carolina  rice.  When  the 
rice  is  swelled  and  soft,  mix  in  enough  grated  marmalade  to  color 


PUDDINGS.  lt^9 

and  flavor  it ;   pour  it  in  a  buttered  mould  and  boil  it  again  to 
make  it  turn  out;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

SAGO    PUDDING. 

Wash  and  pick  five  table-spoonsful  of  sago,  and  boil  it  in 
quart  of  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  until  soft.  Mix  in  six 
table-spoonsful  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter; when  cold  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Stir 
well  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 

TAPIOCA    PUDDING. 

Put  a  teacup  of  tapioca  and  a  tea-spoon  of  salt  into  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  where  it  will  be 
quite  warm,  but  not  cook.  Peel  six  tart  apples,  take  out  the  cores, 
fill  them  with  sugar,  in  which  is  grated  a  litttle  nutmeg  and  lemon- 
peel,  and  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish  ;  over  these  pour  the  tapioca, 
first  mixing  with  it  a  table-spoon  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  cold 
milk.     Bake  one  hour.     Eat  with  sauce. 

ICE   CORN   STARCH    PUDDING. 

Take  the  cream  from  a  quart  and  a  pint  of  milk  after  it  has 
stood  a  few  hours,  or  long  enough  to  '*  raise."  Set  it  away  in  a 
cool  place,  and  mix  with  a  little  of  the  cold  skimmed  milk  four 
heaping  table-spoonsful  of  corn  starch,  and  two  beaten  eggs. 
Place  on  the  fire  meantime  a  quart  of  the  skimmed  milk,  in  a  thick, 
lined  saucepan,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  mix  rapidly  and 
smoothly  with  it  the  eggs  and  corn  starch,  allowing  it  to  boil  up 
once.  Pour  into  a  mould  or  small  oval  dishes  which  have  been 
wet  with  cold  water  to  prevent  sticking,  A  little  salt  is  an  im- 
provement. Set  away  in  a  cool  place,  and  it  will  turn  out  clear 
and  quivering.  Eat  with  the  cream  taken  from  the  milk  and  pow- 
dered sugar.  This  is  a  cheap,  easily  made,  and  delicious  summer 
dessert. 

BOILED    YANKEE    PLUM   PUDDING 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  an  egg-size 
of  lard,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a 


160  PTIDDINGS. 

cofFee-cup  of  niilk,  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Boil  in  a  form 
or  a  bag  made  of  thick  cloth,  or  steam  three  hours.  To  be  eaten 
hot  with  a  liquid  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

MRS.    CROLY'S   CHRISTMAS   PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  one  of  currants,  one  of  bread-crumbs, 
half-pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  eight  eggs,  one  quart  milk,  one 
tea-cup  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  quarter  pound  candied  citron,  quarter 
candied  lemon  cut  in  strips,  salt,  and  other  spice  to  taste.  Boil 
slowly  four  hours,  and  eat  with  rich  sauce.     This  is  delicious. 

BAKED    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Take  two  quarts  of  milk,  ten  soda  crackers,  eight  eggs,  one 
pound  of  stoned  rasins,  spice  to  suit,  and  sweeten  with  sugar ;  a 
little  butter.     Bake  from  two  to  three  hours. 

PRUNE  OR  DAMSON  PUDDING. 

Take  two  well  beaten  eggs,  a  quart  of  milk,  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  batter,  a  little  salt,  and  three  spoonsful  of  ginger.  Mix 
the  milk  in  gradually  with  a  pound  of  prunes ;  put  it  in  a  pudding 
bag  and  boil  it  an  hour  or  more.  Serve  with  melted  butter  poured 
over  it. 

ENGLISH    PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  the  best  raisins  stoned,  and  chopped  a  little  on  a 
paste  board  ;  one  pound  of  currants  washed  and  picked,  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied 
citron,  cut  up  in  strips;  quarter  pound  of  the  best  Jordan  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  ;  one  pound  of  beef  suet  picked  and  chopped 
fine;  half  pound  of  flour,  and  quarter  pound  of  biscuit  powder; 
half  pound  of  moist  sugar ;  nutmeg  and  mixed  spices  to  taste ; 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  eight  eggs,  well  beaten,  yolks  and  whites  separately ;  and  a 
gill  of  old  ale.  Then  take  a  little  milk  in  a  saucepan,  and  put 
into  it  half  a  pod  of  vanilla.  Let  it  simmer  on  the  hob,  with  the 
lid  closed  until  the  pod  is  quite  soft.  Take  out  the  pod  and  mince 
it  small,  put  it  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  bray  it 
until  it  is  reduced  to  a  paste  ;  return  it  to  the  milk  and  pour  all 


PUDDINGS.  IGl 

into  tLe  pudding.  Jus/  before  putting  the  pudding  into  the  basin 
or  mould,  give  it  a  ver}  good  stir  and  mix  in  a  gill  of  good  brandy. 
It  will  take  eight  hours  to  boil. 

PLUM    PUDDING    WITH    SNOW. 

Mix  together  a  pound  and  a  (juarter  of  flour,  half  a  [)int  of 
sweet  cream,  a  pound  of  stoned  rasins,  four  ounces  of  currants, 
four  ounces  of  mashed  potatoes,  five  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  and  a 
gill  of  milk.  Work  thoroughly  together,  season  it,  mix  eight 
table-spoonsful  of  clear  snow  Yt^ry  quickly  throughout  the  mass  ; 
put  the  pudding  in  a  bag  and  boil  four  hours.  Two  table-spoonsful 
of  snow  are  equal  to  an  egg  in  any  pudding. 

SUET   PUDDING. — 1. 

One  small  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  tea-spoonful  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Stir 
this  thick  with  flour ;  put  in  a  pudding  bag,  leaving  room  for  it  to 
rise,  and  boil  three  hours.     It  will  be  quite  light. 

SUET   PUDDING. — 2. 

Mix  half  a  pound  of  finely  chopped  suet,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
salt,  and  half  a  pound  ofZante  currants  in  one  pint  of  milk;  make 
it  a  thick  batter  with  flour,  then  mix  in  another  pint  of  milk  and 
boil  it  two  hours.     Serve  with  wine    sauce. 

EXHIBITION    PUDDING. 

Mix  together  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  chopped  suet,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  two  table-spoonsful  of  flour, 
two  table-spoousfid  of  sugar,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  the  grated 
peel  of  a  whole  lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg.     Boil  three  hours. 

LE1CESTEH8H1RE    HUNTING    PUDDING. 

^lix  together  half  a  pound  of  chopped  suet,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and 
chopped,  a  pound  of  flour,  a  tumbler  of  milk,  two  gills  of  brandy, 
four  beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  somp  grated  lemon  peel.  Boil 
it  two  or  three  hours,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 


1C2  PUDDINGS. 


BREAD    PUDDING. — 1 

Take  the  crumbs  of  stale  bread,  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boil- 
in;:^  milk,  and  set  it  by  to  cool.  When  quite  cold,  beat  it  up  very 
fine  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  sifted  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten 
it,  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  and  add  half  a  pound  of  well  washed  cur- 
rants ;  beat  up  three  eggs  separately  and  mix  them  up  with  the  rest, 
adding,  if  desired,  a  few  strips  of  candied  orange  peel.  All  the 
ingredients  must  be  beaten  up  together  for  about  half  an  hour,  as 
the  lightness  of  the  pudding  depends  upon  that.  Boil  it  an  hour. 
Serve  with  wine  sau<^e. 

BREAD    PUDDING. — ^Z, 

One  pint  of  nice  fine  bread  crumbs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  Q^g.  Bake  until  done, 
but  not  watery.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  and  beat  in  a 
tea-cupful  of  sugar  in  which  has  been  stirred  the  juice  of  the  lemon. 
Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly,  or  any  sweetmeat  you  * 
prefer.  Pour  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this,  and  replace  in  the 
oven  and  bake  lightly.     Eat  cold  with  cream. 

CHESTER   PUDDLNG. 

Two  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  white  sugar,  one  and  a 
half  ounces  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  (six  bitter,  twelve 
sweet)  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  the  peel  grated,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Put  all  this  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till 
it  nearly  boils,  then  pour  it  into  a  pie  dish  lined  with  light  pastry, 
and  bake  it.  The  whites  of  the  eggs  to  be  beaten  up  into  snow, 
and  put  over  the  pudding.  Just  before  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven, 
strew  a  little  pounded  sugar  over  it. 

MRS.  STOWE'S    bread    AND   FRUIT   PUDDING. 

Take  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  nearly  fill  a  buttered  mould 
with  layers  of  bread  and  layers  of  fruit  alternately  ;  beat  four  eggs 
mix  them  in  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  and 
fruit.     Boil  it  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  163 


AN   editor's   favorite   PUDDING. 

Butter  thinly  sliced  bread,  and  place  it  in  a  deep  disli ;  between 
every  layer  sprinkle  Zante  currants,  well  cleaned,  and,  if  you 
please,  chipped  citron.  Beat  three  eggs  well,  add  them  to  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  pour  over  the  bread,  and 
bake  slowly,  with  a  cover  on,  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  then  take 
the  cover  off  and  brown.  Eat  with  sauce.  Instead  of  the  currantslt^ 
and  citron,  marmalade  may  be  spread  thickly  upon  the  bread,  and 
the  bread  cut  into  small  oblong  pieces,  to  make  marmalade  bread 
and  butter  pudding.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

SALLY    LUNN    PUDDING. 

Scoop  out  a  piece  from  the  under  side  of  a  Sally  Lunn  cake 
without  injuring  the  upper  crust,  and  replace  it.  Put  the  cake  in- 
to a  basin  that  will  just  hold  it,  pour  boiling  milk  over  it,  let  it 
soak  for  three  hours,  and  turn  it  out ;  mix  one  egg,  well  beaten, 
with  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  a  little  spice  and  sugar,  and  having 
'removed  the  piece  previously  cut  out,  stir  in  these  ingredients,  still 
taking  care  not  to  break  the  crust,  and  replace  the  piece.  Butter 
the  basin  you  boil  it  in,  and  If  not  full,  fill  It  with  bread  and  crumbs, 
and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

NURSERY   PUDDING. 

Stew  four  pounds  of  rhubarb  with  one  poimd  of  brown  sugar, 
moisten  quarter  of  a  pound  of  arrowroot  with  cold  water,  then  stir 
it  Into  the  boiling  rhubarb.  It  is  best  eaten  cold,  with  milk  or 
cream.     The  children  like  this  pudding. 

DANDY    PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  four  eg2:s,  three  table-spoonsful  of 
corn-starchy  sweeten  to  taste ;  scald  the  milk,  and  when  very  hot, 
stir  In  the  starch,  previously  dissolved  In  cold  milk.  Add  the  eggs 
with  the  starch  ;  stir  until  It  thickens  well.  To  be  boiled  in  a  pail, 
set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Pour,  when  done.  Into  a  pudding- 
dish.  When  quite  cold,  pour  over  it  a  frosting,  made  of  the  beat- 
en whites,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar  to  each  egg. 
Blavor  both  the   frosting   and   pudding  with  extract  of  lemon  or 


164  PUDDTXGS. 

vanilla.     Sut  the  pudding  in  the  oven,  and  brown  the  frosting  a 
delicate  color.     The  colder  when  eaten,  the  better. 

ICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk  with  one  tea-spoonful  of 
isinglass.  Beat  five  eggs  and  mix  thein  with  the  milk  as  you  would 
for  custards.  Take  a  tin  mould  with  a  cover,  oiled,  not  buttered, 
and  line  it  with  candied  fruits,  such  as  plums,  green  gages,  etc. 
Then  pour  the  custard  in  very  gradually,  so  that  the  fruit  will  re- 
main at  the  bottom.  Put  on  the  cover  and  bury  the  mould  in  ice 
for  the  whole  day,  only  turning  out  the  pudding  at  the  moment  it 
is  wanted. 

THE  deacon's   apple   INDIAN   PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  scalded  milk,  one-half  pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  tea 
cup  of  molasses,  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  six  sweet  apples  cut  in  thin 
elices  ;  bake  three  hours. 

CORN   PUDDING. 

Twelve  ears  of  corn,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  table-spoon- 
ful of  sugar,  one  of  flour,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  salt.  Bake  four 
Lours ;  serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

LITTLE   CURRANT    DUMPLINGS. 

A  pint  of  flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  beef  suet  chopped 
fine,  a  salt  spoon  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  picked  and  clean  Zante 
currants,  one  eggy  and  milk,  or  water  enough  to  mix  to  the  con- 
sistency of  drop  biscuit.  Boil  in  dumpling  cloths,  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  a  table-spoonful  to  a  dumpling.    Serve  with  sauce. 

SINIALL  AND   LIGHT   PLUM  PUDDING. 

Soak  three  ounces  of  the  grated  crumb  of  a  stale  loaf  in  a  gill 
of  boiling  milk,  and  mix  in  four  ounces  of  finely  minced  suet,  an 
ounce  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  ten  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  a  littlo 
salt,  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange  and  three  eggs,  leaving  out  one 
white ;  put  no  sugar  in  it.  Boil  the  pudding  two  hours  or  more, 
and  serve  with  very  sweet  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  1G5 


THE    POETS    PUDDING. 

Well  sugar  any  summer  fruit,  and  fill  a  deep  tart  dish  with  layerj 
of  it  alternated  with  thin  slices  of  the  inside  of  a  light  stale  loaf; 
let  the  upper  layer  be  of  fruit,  and  if  it  is  a  dry  kind,  sprinkle 
over  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  water  or  a  little  lemon  juice.  Rasp- 
berries, currants,  or  cherries  will  not  require  this.  The  sugar  must 
be  used  according  to  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit.  For  a  quart  of 
ripe  green  gages,  split  and  stoned,  five  ounces  will  be  sufficient. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  half  an  hour. 

THE   pastor's   pudding. 

Wash  and  pare  some  rhubarb  stalks,  cut  them  into  short  lengths 
and  put  a  layer  of  them  in  a  deep  dish,  with  one  or  two  spoonsful 
of  sugar;  cover  evenly  with  thin  slices  of  a  roll,  then  add  a  thick 
layer  of  fruit  and  sugar,  then  one  of  bread,  then  one  of  rhubarb, 
and  then  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  mixed  with 
a  table-spoonful  of  sugar.  Pour  over  a  little  clarified  butter,  and 
bake  thirty  or  forty  minutes.  Good  apples  sliced,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  nutmeg  and  lemon  rind,  and  covered  with  well  but- 
tered slices  of  bread,  make  an  excellent  pudding  of  this  kind. 
Black  currants  may  also  be  used,  leaving  out  the  butter. 

BOILED   INDIAN    PUDDING. 

A  quart  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  cup  of  raisins,  a 
cup  of  chopped  suet,  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  and  meal  enough 
to  make  it  stiff. 

PLAIN   INDIAN   PUDDING. 

Seven  table-spoonsful  of  sifted  Indian  meal,  scalded  with  boil- 
ing water  until  the  quantity  is  thoroughly  wet;  add  three  pints  of 
new  or  skimmed  milk,  cold,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  little 
salt,  four  eggs.  Some  persons  think  a  little  chopped  suet  improves 
it.  Place  it  in  the  oven,  with  a  moderate  heat,  and  bake  it  slowly 
three  hours.  After  being  in  the  oven  a  half  hour  stir  it  from  the 
bottom,  as  that  is  apt  to  thicken  at  first.     Eat  with  butter. 

NANTUCKET    CORN   PUDDING. 

Take  two  dozen  ears  of  young  corn,  husk,  and  grate  or  pound 


166  PUDDINGS. 

it  fine ;  add  three  pints  of  new  milk,  cold,  one  half  tea-cup  of 
brown  sugar,  a  little  salt,  two  soda  crackers  pounded  fine,  six 
eggs ;  put  it  in  the  oven,  with  a  moderate  heat  and  bake  three 
hours.     Eat  with  butter. 

MRS.    HOWITT'S   pudding. 

Butter  lightly  on  both  sides,  some  evenly  cut  slices  of  roll,  or 
of  light  bread  freed  from  crust,  and  spread  the  tops  thickly  and 
evenly  with  orange  marmalade.  Prepare  as  much  in  this  way  as 
will  cover  the  surface  of  the  pudding  without  the  edges  of  the 
bread  overlaying  each  other,  as  this  would  make  it  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  dish.  Pour  in  a  custard  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  new 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  sugar.  Flavor  with 
French  brandy  only.  Let  it  stand  an  hour,  then  place  it  carefully 
in  an  oven  and  bake  it  until  it  is  set,  and  no  longer.  Too  fierce  a 
heat  will  spoil  it.  The  bread  should  be  a  light,  clear  brown,  and 
the  custard  under  it  smooth  and  firm. 

BOILED    APPLE   DUMPLINGS. 

Select  apples  that  will  cook  quickly,  pare  and  core  them,  leav- 
ing the  apple  whole.  Prepare  a  plain  paste,  roll  the  crust  about 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cover  each  apple  with  it,  and  then  steam 
them  about  an  hour;  if  you  boil  them  instead  of  steaming  them, 
make  the  paste  of  suet,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  an  hour 

BAKED   APPLE    DUMPLINGS. 

Select  smooth,  even-sized  apples ;  peel,  core  them,  and  fill  the 
cavities  with  sugar,  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Divide  your  paste  into 
as  many  parts  as  you  have  apples.  Roll  each  one  out  square,  and 
inclose  the  apple  in  it,  slightly  wetting  the  edge,  to  make  it  stick. 
Bake  them  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  eat  with  a  dry  sauce  made  of 
butter  and  sugar  beaten  together. 

APPLE    FRITTERS. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  then  stir  in  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  table- spoonful  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and 
the  juice,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  half  pound  of  chopped  apples,  one 
half  pound  of  sifted  flour;  stir  it  well  together,  and  fry  in  lard, 
or  can  be  baked  on  a  griddle  as  pancakes. 


PUDDINGS.  167 


LEMON   DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  with  ten  ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  beef 
Buet,  chopped  fine,  9  large  table-spoonful  of  flour,  the  grated  rinds 
of  two  small  lemons,  or  one  very  large  one,  four  ounces  of  pound- 
ed sugar,  or  if  wished  very  sweet,  more  ;  three  large  or  four  f.mall 
eggs  beaten  and  strained.  Divide  these  into  four  equal  pcrri'/ji8 
tie  in  well-floured  cloths,  and  boil  an  hour. 


PUDDING   SALCES. 


MAPLE    SUGAR    SAUCE. 


Take  half  maple  sugar  and  half  light  brown  sugar,  boll  them 
together  with  a  little  water,  clarify  the  syrup  with  an  egg,  strain  it 
and  melt  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  it.  All  maple  sugar,  or  all 
common  sugar  can  be  used.     It  is  very  good  on  puddings. 


CHERRY    SAUCE. 

Take  ripe  cherries,  mash  them  with  the  meat  of  the  pits  In  their 
own  juice  until  tender,  pulp  through  a  sieve  all  that  will  pass,  add 
wine  and  sugar,  and  spice  if  desired,  and  boil  until  it  is  of  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream. 

HARD    SAUCE. 

y^  This  is  made  simply  by  stirring  together  to  a  light  cream  two 
'cups  of  pounded  loaf  sugar  to  half  of  a  large  cup  of  sweet  butter. 
It  may  be  flavored  according  to  taste.  For  cream  and  plain  bat- 
ter pudding  it  may  be  thinned  with  a  few  spoonsful  of  boiling  wa- 
ter and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Nutmeg  is  the  best  flavor  for  apple 
puddings.  For  rice  puddings  a  little  lemon  juice  or  wine  may  be 
added. 

SWEET    LIQUID    SAUCE. 

.  One  table-spoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  cold  water,  a  pinch 
/  of  salt,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  little  maple  or  other  syrup.  Stir  into  this  mixture  hot  wa- 
ter enough  to  make  a  pint  bowl  of  sauce ;  boil  all  up,  and  grate  in 
lastly  a  little  nutmeg. 

^  AN    EXCELLENT   PUDDING   SAUCE. 

Beat  up,  as  for  hard  sauce,  white  sugar  with  butter,  until  very 


PUDDING   SAUCES.  1^9 

light,  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  one  of  sugar; 
flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  or  bitter  almonds.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  serving,  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  range, 
and  stir  it  till  hot.  It  will  raise  in  a  white  foam  to  the  top  of 
the  bowl. 

WINE   SAUCE. 

/  Take  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar,  beat  them  to- 
gether and  mix  in  slowly  a  cup  of  wine  :  melt  all  over  steam  but 
do  not  stir  it  while  melting. 

BKANDY  SAUCE. 

This  can  be  made  the  same  as  wine  sauce,  or  as  follows  :  Heat 
over  steam  in  a  covered  saucepan  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  beat  two 
eggs,  and  beat  together  to  a  cream  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  half  a 
large  cup  of  butter;  stir  the  eggs  into  it,  add  also  the  brandy, 
mixing  quickly  and  thoroughly.  Keep  it  in  hot  water  until 
needed. 

ROSE   HIP   SAUCE. 

Take  rose  hips,  open  them  and  take  out  the  seeds,  soak 
them  and  boil  them  to  a  paste,  pulp  them  through  a  sieve  and 
stir  them  in  boiling  wine  with  sufficient  sugar,  until  of  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream. 

LEMON  BRANDY. 

/  This  is  used  for  flavoring  sweet  dishes.  Fill  a  wide-necked  bot- 
tle with  very  thin  rinds  of  fresh  lemons,  cover  with  good  brandy, 
and  after  two  or  three  weeks  strain  off  the  spirit  and  cork  it  for 
use.  A  few  apricot  kernels  are  sometimes  blanched  and  added 
with  the  lemon  peel  to  give  a  good  flavor. 


DESSERT  DISHES. 


CREAM   PUFFS. 


For  shells  :  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  melt  in  it  half  a  pound  of 
lard,  and  stir,  while  boiling,  into  this,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  flour.  Boil  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  The  best  way  to  boil 
it,  is  to  set  one  kettle  in  another,  or  a  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boihng 
water  with  the  ingredients  in  the  pail,  as  in  boiling  a  custard.  When 
thick,  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  ten  eggs,  and  a  little 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  m  a  quick  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes ;  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  pies.  This  makes  five  dozen 
cakes.  Drop  with  a  spoon,  on  buttered  tins,  some  distance  apart. 
When  cool  open  carefully  with  a  knife,  and  fill  with  mock  cream, 
which  is  made  as  follows : 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar,  five  ounces  of  flour,  extract  of  vanilla  to  taste.  Make  a 
smooth  paste  of  flour,  in  some  of  the  cold  milk ;  put  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  with  all  the  milk ;  when  thickened  a  little,  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten  with  the  sugar.  When  creamy  it  is  done.  Take 
from  the  fire,  and  add  a  little  extract  of  vanilla.  Do  not  use  until 
cold. 

This  is  the  only  receipt  for  making  cream  puffs  that  we  have 
used   with   success.     But  this   never   fails,  if  the    directions   are 
followed ;  and  when  done  they  are  nice  enough   to   set  before 
king. 

PASTIES. 

Rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  into  two  pounds  of  flour; 
beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  light,  and  mix  in  two  half-pints  of 
water;  wet  the  flour,  leaving  out  some  to  work  the  crust  with; 
take  one  pound  of  butter ;  roll  out  the  crust  four  times,  each  time 
putting  in  with  a  knife  a  quarter  of  the  butter  ;  use  flour  freely,  when 


DESSERT    DISHES.  171 

rolling  out ;  cut  it  round,  lay  In  your  preserve  or  apple,  which  must 
be  dry ;  turn  over  the  paste,  to  join  a  half  circle ;  nip  the  edge 
with  the  thumb  and  finger,  to  confine  the  preserve ;  dip  the  hand 
in  water,  pass  it  lightly  over  the  paste,  then  sift  sugar  thick  upon 
them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CUSTARD. 

Use  about  four  eggs  to  a  pint  of  new  rich  milk.  Flavor  the  milk 
d;  putting  six  young  laurel  leaves,  or  grated  lemon  peel  into  it, 
before  beginning  to  make  the  custard,  and  leaving  them  in  until  It 
is  done  ;  sweeten  the  milk  with  an  ounce  or  more  of  sugar  accord- 
ing to  taste.  Beat  up  the  eggs  thoroughly  with  sugar  and  add  the 
milk  to  it  boiling  hot.  Place  all  in  the  saucepan,  and  stir  it  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  remove  it  from  the  fire 
and  continue  stirring  it  until  it  is  of  exactly  the  right  thickness 
Turn  it  out  immediately  and  keep  stirring  it  until  it  is  cool. 

BOILED    CUSTARD. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  over  the  fire ;  when  It  steams  up,  add  the 
yolks  of  nine  eggs  and  four  table-spoons  of  sugar,  well  beaten 
together.  Stir  the  mixture  well  till  it  thickens.  Remove  it  from 
the  fire,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Add  flavor  and  salt  to  taste.  To 
make  it  extra  nice,  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  some  ex- 
tract of  lemon  and  sufficient  powdered  sugar  to  make  it  stiff.  Di- 
vide it  over  the  custard  cups. 

APPLE     CHARLOTTE. 

Make  a  nice  syrup  ;  cut  up  your  apples  very  fine,  and  boil  them 
in  the  syrup  with  a  peel  of  a  lemon,  till  perfectly  transparent; 
when  done,  put  it  Into  a  large  tumbler,  or  a  mould,  and  the  next 
day  it  will  be  solid ;  turn  it  Into  a  glass  dish  and  pour  over  it  a 
rich  sofl  custard  ;  if  you  choose,  put  a  whip  and  some  bits  of  cur- 
rant jelly  on  the  top. 

CHOCOLATE    KISSES. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  pounded  together 
and  finely  sifted ;  then  mix,  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten 
to  a  froth.     Drop  this  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  slowly. 


172  DESSERT    DISHES. 


LEMON    SPONGE. 

Soak  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  water  for  an  hour, 
then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  ol 
a  large  lemon ;  put  in  a  pan  and  simmer  on  the  fire  until  the  ge- 
latine is  dissolved ;  strain  it  into  a  large  pitcher,  let  it  remain  until 
it  is  quite  a  jelly,  when  the  white  of  an  egg  must  be  added,  and 
the  whole  whisked  thoroughly  well  for  an  hour ;  put  into  moulds 
previously  rinsed  in  cold  water.  When  turned  out  it  should  look 
like  snow 

CHOCOLATE    CREAM    CUSTARDS. 

.  Scrape  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  chocolate,  pour  on  it  a 
aea-cupful  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  by  the  fire  until  entire- 
ly dissolved.  Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  light,  leaving  out  the  whites 
of  one  or  two ;  stir  them  by  degrees  into  a  quart  of  sweet  milk 
alternately  with  the  chocolate,  and  three  table-spoonsful  of  white 
sugar.     Put  the  mixture  into  cups,  and  bake  ten  minutes. 


/. 


APPLE    CUSTARD. 

Select  half  a  dozen  sour  apples,  peel  and  core  them,  and  cook 
them  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  water.  When  they  become  a  little  ten- 
der, take  them  out,  place  them  in  the  pudding  dish,  sugar  them 
and  pour  over  them  a  mixture  of  six  or  eight  eggs,  well-beaten 
with  four  spoonsful  of  sugar  and  three  pints  of  milk.  Bake  them 
for  about  half  an  hour. 

RASPBERRY    CUSTARD. 

/Take  three  gills  of  raspberry  juice,  and  dissolve  in  it  a  pound  of 
white  sugar,  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  boihng  cream,  stir  until  Quite 
thick^  and  serve  in  custard  glasses. 

RICE   CUSTARDS. 

,  In  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk,  boil  two  ounces  of  ground 
-tdce ;  mix  with  it  four  ounces  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  cream,  an 
ounce  of  grated  cocoanut,  and  bake  in  a  mild  oven. 


DESSERT   DISHES.  17o 

STRAWBERRY,    OR   APPLE    SOUFFLE. 

^  Stew  the  apples  with  a  little  lemon  peel ;  sweeten  tliem,  and  lay 
them  pretty  high  round  the  inside  of  a  dish.  Make  a  custard  of 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little  cinnamon,  sugar  and  milk.  Let  it 
thicken  over  a  slow  fire,  but  not  boil ;  when  ready,  pour  it  in  the 
inside  of  the  apple.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  light  froth, 
and  cover  the  whole ;  throw  over  it  a  quantity  of  pounded  sugar, 
and  brown  it  of  a  fine  brown.  Any  fruit  made  of  a  proper  con- 
sistency will  do  for  the  walls.  Strawberries  when  ripe,  are  delicious. 

SWEET    SOUFFLE. 

/  Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  as  much  flour  as  will  come  to  a  thick 
paste,  over  the  stove ;  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time ;  add  six  yolks 
of  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  as  much  sugar  as  you  like.  Beat  six 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  stir  them  altogether.  Put  it  into  a  quick 
oven  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  wanted.  Glaze  it  v/ith 
white  sugar,  and  send  quickly  to  table.  It  may  be  made  with 
ground  rice.  The  rind  of  a  lemon,  grated,  or  lemon  juice,  gives  it 
a  nice  flavor. 

SUPERIOR    OMELETTE    SOUFFLE. 

/  Twelve  eggs,  four  heaping  table-spoonsful  of  sugar,  six  of 
^  flour,  one  quart  of  milk.     Bo  1  the  milk,  stir  the  yolks  of  eggs, 

sugar,  and  flour  together,  add  them  to  the  milk,  and  let  it  stand 
.   hot  but  not  boil.      One  hour  before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  beat  the 

whites   to  a  stiflf  froth,  stir  them  into   the  mixture  and  bake  in  a 

quick  oven.     Flavor  to  taste. 


/ 


ORANGE   CREAM. 

Pare  and  squeeze  two  oranges  on  a  cup  of  finely  powdered 
sugar,  with  half  a  cup  of  water.  Add  four  well  beaten  eggs  and 
beat  all  together  some  time.  Strain  the  whole  through  flannel  in- 
to a  saucepan ;  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  one  way  until 
thick  and  scalding  hot,  not  boiling,  or  it  will  curdle.  If  lumps  of 
sugar  ar*e  rubbed  on  the  oranges  before  they  are  pared,  the  flavor 
may  be  extracted :  or  they  may  be  grated.  Serve  as  custard  in 
jelh  glasses. 


174  •  DESSERT    DISHES. 


LEMON   CKEAM. 

Take  a  pint  of  thick  cream ;  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well- beaten; 
a  cup  of  white  sugar,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin ;  boil  it 
up ;  then  stir  it  until  almost  cold ;  put  the  juice  of  a  lemon  In  a 
dish  and  pour  the  cream  upon  it  stirring  well  until  cold.  Serve 
ir  a  large  glass  dish,  or  in  custard  cups,  either  alone  or  with  sweet- 
neats. 

VANILLA    CREAM. — 1. 

Boil  a  stick  of  vanilla  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  new  milk,  un« 
til  it  is  highly  flavored,  take  out  the  vanilla  and  sweeten  the  milk 
to  taste.  Beat  up  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  the  white 
of  one,  and  gradually  mix  in  the  milk,  stirring  them  all  the  while. 
Then  cook  the  cream  until  it  Is  thick  enough.  If  the  vanilla  be 
carefully  dried  it  will  serve  several  times  provided  it  is  good. 

VANILLA   CREAM. — 2. 

Make  a  jelly  of  isinglass  with  the  proportion  of  one  ounce  to  a 
pint  of  water.  Get  a  strong  flavor  of  the  vanilla  in  a  little  milk, 
with  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  one  quart  to  taste  ;  mix  the  isinglass 
jelly,  the  flavored  milk,  and  one  pint  of  good  cream,  and  pour 
them  into  a  mould  to  set.  The  isinglass  jelly  should  be  made  in 
time  to  get  cold  before  it  is  wanted  for  the  cream,  in  case  there 
should  be  any  sediment  to  cut  from  it. 

ITALIAN   CREAM. 

Take  one  pint  of  cream,  and  half  pint  of  milk ;  make  it  hot, 
sweetening  it  to  taste,  and  flavoring  it  with  lemon  peel.  Beat  up 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  beat  up  all  together,  and  set  it  over  a 
slow  fire  to  thicken.  Have  ready  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  melted 
and  strained,  which  add  to  the  cream ;  whip  it  well,  and  pour  '.t 
into  the  mould. 

TEA     CREAM. 

Boil  two  drachms  or  more  of  green  tea  In  a  quart  of  milk,  afler 
several  minutes  strain  it,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powered  sugar ;  boil  it  to  reduce  it  to  one 
half,  strain  it  again  and  serve  when  cold. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  175 


ROCK  CREAM. 

Boll  a  tea-cupful  of  good  rice  in  sweet  milk  till  soft,  sweeten  it 
with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  pile  it  up  high  on  a  dish.  Lay  on 
it,  here  and  there,  square  pieces  of  currant  jelly,  or  any  kind  of 
preserved  fruits  ;  beat  up  very  stiff  the  whites  of  four  or  five  eggs, 
and  a  little  powdered  sugar,  flavored  with  orange  flower  water  or 
vanilla,  then  add  to  it  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream,  and  drop  it  over 
the  rice,  giving  it  the  appearance  of  a  rock  of  snow. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. — 1. 

Make  first  a  pint  of  custard — two  eggs  to  the  pint  of  milk- 
then  dissolve  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it 
boil  as  in  making  jelly.  Strain  each  into  the  same  vessel — a  tin 
pan  is  the  best — and  stir  it  gently  all  the  while,  until  it  gets  cold. 
In  the  meantime,  take  a  quart  of  cream,  season  with  vanilla, 
sweeten  with  a  pound  of  sugar  and  churn  it  to  a  froth.  Skim  the 
froth   and  stir  it  into  the  mixture  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. — 2. 

Boil  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  two  tumblers  of  milk,  and  boil 
bard.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  of  six  eggs,  adding  to 
the  yolks  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  them  into  the  boil- 
ing milk  long  enough  for  them  to  thicken  like  a  rich  custard ;  then 
stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stifiP  froth.  Season  with  vanilla. 
Whip  a  pint  of  rich  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  the  cus- 
tard. When  cold,  arrange  your  cake  in  the  mould  and  pour  in  the 
mixture.     Set  it  on  ice. 


4 


EUGENIE    RUSSE. 


Whip  a  pint  of  cream  to  a  sponge  froth.  Pound  half  a  stick  of 
"vanilla  with  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  it ;  melt  half  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  and  add  all  together  to  the  cream.  Plums  and  strawber- 
ries, or  other  fruit  are  then  laid  round  a  plain  mould,  the  vanilla 
cream  poured  into  the  middle,  and  when  cold  the  whole  turned  out. 

MERINGUES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  strong  froth,  mix  in  by  degrees 


176  DESSEKT    DISHES. 

a  table-spoon  and  a  half  of  sifted  su^ar,  then  drop  the  mixture 
with  a  spoon  on  floured  or  sugared  writing  paper,  put  them  into  a 
very  cool  oven  and  let  them  remain  until  the  outside  is  firm  to  the 
touch ;  when  cold  scrape  out  any  remaining  moist  part'  from  the 
inside,  fill  them  with  whipped  and  flavored  cream  or  with  preserve, 
and  join  two  together  putting  the  flat  sides  upon  each  other. 

LUCY   STONE^S    BEEAD    MERINGUE. 

To  a  pint  of  nice,  fine  bread  crumbs  put  a  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten,  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake 
until  stiff,  then  take  it  out  and  pour  over  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  froth,  with  a  tea-cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice 
of  the  lemon.  Return  to  the  oven,  brown  it  lightly,  and  you  will 
have  a  delicious  **  company,"  pudding,  which  may  be  eaten  cold, 
'with  or  without  fruit  or  cream. 

ALMOND    BLANC   MANGE. 

Break  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  small  pieces,  wash  well,  pour  on 
a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  the  next  morning  add  a  quart  of  milk ; 
boil  till  the  isinglass  is  dissolved,  and  strain.  Put  in  two  ounces 
of  blanched  almonds  powdered ;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  turn 
into  a  mould,  and  stick  thin  slips  of  almonds  all  over  it.  Dress  it 
with  whipped  cream. 

TAPIOCA    BLANC    MANGE. 

In  a  pint  of  milk  soak  half  a  poimd  of  tapioca  for  an  hour. 
Boil  till  tender,  sweeten,  and  pour  it  into  a  mould.  When  cold 
turn  it  out,  serve  it  in  a  dish  with  jam  round  it  and  a  little  cream, 
or  flavored  with  lemon  or  bitter  almond  without  jam  or  cream. 

ARROWROOT    BLANC    MANGE. 

Mix  three  well  filled  up  table-spoonsful  of  arrowroot  with  a  little 
milk.  Boil  one  i)int  and  a  half  of  rich,  new  milk,  sweeten  and 
flavor  to  taste ;  pour  it  on  the  arrowroot,  mixing  them  well,  and 
stir  the  mixture  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  is  thoroughly  cooked  and 
thickened,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Pour  it  into  a  jelly 
shape,  and  do  not  turn  it  out  until  the  next  day. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  177 


RICE    FLOUR    BLANC    MANGE. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  season  it  to  your  taste  with  sugar  and 
rose-water,  take  a  table -spoonful  of  the  rice  flour,  mix  it  very 
smooth  with  cold  milk ;  add  this  to  the  other  milk  while  it  is  boil- 
ing, stirring  it  well.  Let  all  boil  together  about  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  it  ocmsionally ;  then  pour  it  into  moulds,  and  put  it  by  to 
'jool 

WHOLE   RICE   BLANC   MANGE. 

Put  four  ources  of  whole  rice  in  one  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Boil 
it  slowly  for  a  long  time,  and  flavor  with  lemon  peel,  cinnamon, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  it  into  a  mould,  tie  it  down  close,  and 
boil  half  an  hour  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  taking  care  that  the  wa- 
ter does  not  get  into  the  mould.  When  cold,  turn  it  out  of  the 
mould  on  to  a  dish  ;  place  any  kind  of  jam  you  like  around  it,  and 
serve  with  custards  or  cream. 

GROUND  RICE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  ground  rice  into  two  quarts  of  new  milk, 
with  a  little  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel,  and  boil  all  together  till 
quite  thick,  stirring  it  well.  When  it  is  thoroughly  boiled,  take 
out  the  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel,  and  pour  into  a  wetted  mould ; 
when  quite  cold,  turn  out  of  tie  mould,  pour  some  fruit  syrup 
round  it  in  the  dish.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

RED    ROBIN. 

Put  a  pint  of  water  into  a  stewpan,  throw  in  one  pound  of  lump 
sugar,  and  boil  till  it  becomes  thick,  then  add  two  pounds  of  tart 
apples  peeled  and  cored,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin,  boil  all 
together  till  it  is  quite  stiff;  stir  it  often.  Pour  it  into  a  mould, 
and  when  cold  turn  out.  Serve  w^ith  a  custard,  or  it  is  very  good 
itithout. 

LOVE   APPLES. 

Make  sume  blanc  mange  of  maizena,  in  the  proportion  of  four 
table-spoonsful  of  maizena,  to  two  eggs  and  a  quart  of  milk. 
While  still  warm,  pour  it  into  semi-circular  moulds,  the  size  of 

8* 


178  DESSERT   DISHES. 

half  an  egg,  taking  care  first  to  dip  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  to 
prevent  sticking.  When  cold,  turn  out,  stick  the  halves  together 
with  a  little  gum  and  sugar  water,  so  as  to  form  shining  balls. 
With  a  little  brush  and  extract  of  cochineal  then  tinge  one  side 
carefully,  and  arrange  on  a  dish,  in  a  pyramid,  with  apple,  quince, 
or  currant  jelly  in  the  interstice,  and  white  sugar  sifted  over  the 
whole.  Nicely  managed,  this  makes  a  very  pretty  and  inexpen- 
fiive  dish. 

MASKED   TARTS. 

Line  small  tart-pans  with  puff-paste,  and  place  in  each  half  an 
apple  which  has  been  boiled  tender,  in  a  rich  syrup.  Bake  a  light 
brown  and,  when  done,  dilute  quince  jelly,  or  jam,  with  a  little  of 
the  syrup,  and  mask  the  apple  with  a  spoonful  of  it.  Sift  over 
white  sugar. 

FRUIT   TARTS. 

Line  your  pans  as  for  masked  tarts  ;  fill  with  any  kind  of  jelly, 
preserve,  or  jam,  and  cover  with  a  lattice  of  pastry.  Glaze  with 
white  of  egg,  bake  a  light  brown,  and  sift  over  powdered  sugar. 

APPLE   TART. 

Scald  eight  or  ten  large  apples  ;  let  them  stand  till  they  are  cold, 
and  th«^;n  take  off  the  skins.  Beat  the  pulp  as  fine  as  possible, 
with  a  spoon ;  then  mix  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  the  whites  of 
four;  beat  all  together  very  fine,  put  in  some  grated  nutmeg, 
and  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Melt  some  good  fresh  butter,  and  beat 
it  till  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  fine  thick  cream ;  then  make  a 
puff-paste,  and  cover  a  tin  palty-pan  with  it;  pour  in  the  ingredi- 
ents, but  do  not  cover  it  with  the  paste.  When  it  has  baked  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  slip  it  out  of  the  patty-pan,  on  a  dish,  and 
Btrew  over  it  some  sugar,  finely  beaten. 

APPLE   xMERlNGUE. — L 

Prepare  six  large,  tart  apples,  as  for  sauce.     While  hot,  put  in 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.     When  cold,  add  a  cup  of  fine 
cracker  crumbs,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk  or  cream,  a  little  salt,  and  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste.     Bake 


DESSERT   DISHES.  179 

in  a  large  plate,  with  an  under  crust  of  rich  paste  and  a  rim  of 
puff  paste.  When  done,  take  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  half  a  large 
tea-cup  of  white  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon ;  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  over,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  to  brown 
lightly. 

APPLE    MERINGUES. 2. 

Scoop  out  the  core  from  six  apples,  and  fill  them  with  quince 
Dfiarmalade ;  stew  them  until  tender  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  with 
some  sugar,  some  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  more  marmalade.  Lay 
the  apples  in  a  dish  with  the  liquor.  Beat  up  to  a  strong  froth  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  flavoring  them  with  orange  flower  water  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Cover  the  apples  with  this  whip,  and  bake  them  half 
an  hour. 

APPLE   SNOW. 

Peel,  core,  and  quarter  a  dozen  Spitzenberg  apples,  and  stew 
them  gently,  with  a  cup  of  water,  white  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten, 
and  a  little  cinnamon  ;  when  reduced  nearly  to  a  pulp,  turn  into  a 
dish.  Make  a  soft  custard  of  a  quart- of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and  extract  of  lemon ;  when  it  is  cold,  lay  it 
over  the  apples,  and  whip  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  heap  lightly  on  the  top. 

APPLE    MARMALADE. 

Pare  twenty  pounds  of  pippin  apples,  make  a  syrup  of  ten 
pounds  of  sugar,  boil  the  apples  sufficiently  in  it  to  mash,  take 
them  out,  heat  them  fine,  put  them  back,  cut  six  oranges  into  small 
pieces,  and  boil  all  together,  stirring  it  till  done. 

BAKED   APPLES. 

There  is  nothing  better  for  a  simple  ordinary  dessert  than  plain 
baked  apples.  Wash  the  apples,  and  place  them  whole  without 
peeling  in  the  baking  dish  sprinkled  with  sugar,  with  a  little  water 
added  for  sauce  and  bake  until  quite  soft.  A  good  way  is  to  cut 
out  the  stem,  leaving  a  little  cavity;  fill  this  with  sugar  and  place 
three  layers  In  the  dish,  the  stem  end  up.  Sprinkle  over  some 
more  sugar,  add  a  little  water  and  put  a  slice  of  lemon  over  each 


180  DESSERT    DISHES. 

apple  in  the  top  layer ;  first,  slightly  squeezing  the  juice  over  the 
ap])les.  Water  enough  may  be  used  to  supply  a  sauce,  although 
they  are  delicious  with  cream  if  that  can  be  obtained.  Sweet  ap- 
ples are  usually  much  preferred  for  baking  Instead  of  tart  ones, 
though  this  is  in  some  degree  a  matter  of  taste. 

STEWED    APPLES. 

Make  a  clear  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  wa- 
ter. Skim  it;  peel  and  core  the  apples  without  injuring  the 
shape.  Let  them  be  in  cold  water  till  the  syrup  is  ready,  to  which 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  peel  cut  very  fine.  Quarters  of 
oranges  may  be  boiled  In  the  syrup  instead  of  apples. 

APPLE   CREAM. 

Boil  rich,  well-flavored  apples  till  soft,  rub  the  pulp  through  a 
hair  sieve,  mix  in  sugar;  when  cold  stir  in  sweet  cream  and  serve 
cold. 

DRIED    APPLES    STEWED. 

Wash  the  pieces,  soak  several  hours,  boil  in  sufllcient  water  to 
cover  them,  over  a  slow  fire  ;  when  nearly  done  add  sugar.  They 
are  better  flavored  with  a  few  dried  quinces  or  peaches.  Orange 
peel  or  lemon  is  excellent  for  flavor. 

STEWED    PIPPINS. 

Pare  and  quarter  gohlen  pippins,  remove  the  core,  stew  thenr. 
over  a  slow  fire  with  sufiicient  sugar  to  sweeten,  the  juice  and 
rind  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  water,  let  them  cook  till  very  tender. 

GINGER   APPLES. 

Take  Newtown  pippins,  pare,  core,  and  throw  them  Into  cold  wa- 
ter to  preserve  their  color.  Take  a  pint  of  water,  and  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Place  It  on  the  fire  in  a 
stew  pan  and  bring  It  to  a  boil  before  the  fruit  Is  put  in.  Now 
take  the  apples  out  of  the  cold  water  and  put  them  In  the  syrup ; 
and  add  one  ounce  and  three  quarters  of  cleaned  ginger,  for  each 
pound  of  fruit.  Let  them  boil  till  they  become  clear,  an  hour  or 
less  If  not  used  immediately,  put  them  in  a  jar  closely  covered 
down   and  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place.     They  will  keep  some  time. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  181 


FLOATING  ISLAND   OF   APPLES. 


r  Bake  or  scald  eight  or  nine  large  apples  ;  when  cold,  pare  them 
and  pulp  them  through  a  sieve.  Beat  this  pulp  with  sugar,  and 
add  to  the  white?  of  four  or  five  eggs  previously  beaten,  with  a 
small  quantity  of  rose  water,  or  essence  of  lemon  ;  mix  this  into 
the  pulp  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  it  until  quite  light.  Heap  it 
up  on  a  dish   with  Savoy  cakes,  and  jelly  under,  and  around  it. 

APPLE    SNOW    BALLS. 

/  Take  six  apples  pare  and  quarter  them  and  cut  out  the  cores 
completely.  Place  the  quarters  together  in  the  shape  of  the  ap- 
ple before,  and  in  the  cavity  made  by  removing  the  core  put  a 
clove  and  a  slice  of  lemon  peel.  Have  six  small  pudding-cloths 
at  hand,  and  half  pound  of  rice,  and  cover  the  api)les  severally, 
one  after  the  other  in  an  upright  position,  with  rice,  tying  them  up 
tight.  Then  place  them  in  a  large  saucepan  of  scalding  water, 
and  let  them  boil  for  one  whole  hour.  On  taking  then  up,  open 
the  tops,  and  intermix  with  the  fruit  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  with 
butter  and  sugar  to  your  taste. 

COMPOTE    OF    APPLES. 

Boil  a  sauce  pan  of  clarified  sugar,  half  sugar  and  half  water  on 
the  fire;  skim  it,  have  ready  the  apples  pared,  cut  in  halves,  and 
cored,  drop  them  in  tlie  syrup  and  let  them  boil  very  slowly.  Take 
them  off  when  done,  and  let  them  cool ;  if  the  syrup  is  too  thin, 
give  them  another  boil. 

Nina's  apple  cream. 

Take  two  pounds  of  apples,  pare  and  core  them,  slice  them  i:>to 
a  pan,  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one.  Let  these  boil  about  two  hours.  Turn  it 
in  the  mould  and  serve  it  with  boiled  custard,  or  cream. 

mother's  *'  surprise." 

Take  a  square  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  into  thin  slices,  (crust 
and  all,)  and  butter  them.  Peel,  core,  and  cut  up  sufficient  ol 
nice  baking  apples  in  proportion.     Take  a  pie   dish,  line  it  with 


l82  DESSERT    DISHES. 

bread  and  butter.  Next  make  a  layer  of  apples  at  the  bottom,  then 
of  sugar,  then  of  bread  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  filled.  Bake 
until  the  apple  is  perfectly  soft,  then  before  serving,  turn  it  out 
into  a  dish.  It  ought  to  keep  its  shape,  and  eat  almost  like  a 
sweetmeat,  all  the  ingredients  being  thoroughly  blended  in  baking. 

APPLE   CHEESE. 

Take  equal  weights  of  apple  and  sugar;  boil  the  sugar  in  water, 
take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  when  it  is  clear,  put  in  the  apples 
with  some  lemon  juice  and  peel,  and  boil  until  it  is  all  of  a  proper 
thickness. 

A  cream  for  this  cheese  may  be  made  by  putting  to  a  pint  of 
cream  or  new  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  a 
spoonful  of  rose  water,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon ;  let  it  quite  boil, 
and  when  it  is  cool,  sweeten  it  to  taste,  and  pour  it  over  or  around 
the  cheese. 

SARATOGA    APPLE    SAUCE. 

/  Take  two  pounds  of  apples,  boil  them  with  as  little  water  as 
possible,  and  make  them  into  apple  sauce,  then  add  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  boil  all  together  till  quite 
firm,  and  put  it  into  a  mould.  Garnish  it  with  almonds  stuck  over 
it.  It  will  keep  for  many  months,  if  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
mould. 

BAKED    PEARS. 

Take  any  kind  of  pears,  wash  them,  and  place  them  whole  and 
without  peeling,  in  the  baking  tin,  with  merely  the  water  that  will 
hang  on  them  after  washing.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  them,  and  bake 
until  quite  soft.  A  syrup  will  be  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
which  may  be  poured  over  them.  They  are  better  and  more 
wholesome  than  any  complicated  pastry. 

SCALDED    PEARS. 

Wash  the  pears,  wnole,  and  without  pealing ;  boil  th(mi  in  'ust 
enough  water  to  cover  them,  until  they  are  soft,  then  pour  in  molas- 
ses, sufficient  for  a  sauce,  boil  up  until  it  is  thick,  and  serve  the 
pears  in  a  dish,  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  183 


TO    MAKE    A    TRIFLE. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  not  very  tliick  and  let  it  cool.  Break  in 
pieces  some  Naples  biscuits,  some  macaroons  in  halves,  add  ratifia 
cakes,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  them,  and  wet  with  white 
wine ;  pour  the  custard  over  them,  and  put  a  syllabub  over  it.  I 
can  be  garnished  with  currant  jelly,  and  if  convenient  with  flowers. 

GOOSEBERRY    OR   APPLE    TRIFLE. 

Scald  the  fruit,  pulp  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  sugar  to  taste. 
Make  a  thick  layer  of  this  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Mix  a  pint 
of  milk,  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  scald  it  over 
the  fire,  stirring  it  well ;  add  a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  and  let  it 
get  cold.  Then  lay  it  over  the  apples,  or  gooseberries,  with  a 
spoon,  and  put  on  the  whole  a  whip  made  the  day  before.  If  you 
use  apples,  add  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated. 

RHUBARB    TART. 

Pare  off  the  thin  skin,  and  cut  it  in  small  lengths,  stew  them  an 
hour  very  slowly ;  to  one  pint  of  rhubarb  add,  while  simmering, 
a  syrup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  water ;  when  done  let  it  cool,  then 
make  it  into  tarts. 

ICING   FOR    TARTS. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powder- 
ed sugar,  and  flavor  with  two  spoonsful  of  almond,  or  lemon  ex- 
tract, stir  them  together  one  way  till  the  mixture  is  quite  thick,  and 
then  lay  it  on  the  tarts  with  a  feather  or  a  bunch  of  feathers,  then 
let  the  tarts  stand  in  a  mild  oven  until  hard,  but  not  long  enough 
to  become  discolored. 

COMPOTE    OF   RHUBARB. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  stalks  after  they  are  pared,  and  cut  them 
in  short  lengths,  have  ready  a  quarter  of  a  pmt  of  water  boiled 
gently  for  ten  minutes,  with  five  ounces  of  good  lump  sugar,  or  six 
ounces  if  the  fruit  is  very  tart ;  put  it  in  and  let  it  simmer  for 
about  ten  minutes. 


184  DESSERT    DISHES. 


COMPOTE    OF    RED     CURRANTS. 

Make  a  sjrup  of  a  pint  of  water  and  five  or  six  ounces  of  lump 
sugar,  boiled  ten  minutes.  Simmer  a  pint  of  currants,  freed  from 
the  stalks,  from  five  to  seven  minutes.  They  are  an  excellent  ac- 
companiment to  a  pudding  of  batter,  custard,  bread  or  rice,  or  to 
boiled  rice.  A  compote  of  raspberries  may  be  made  in  this  way, 
or  raspberries  may  be  mixed  with  the  currants. 

COMPOTE  OF  GREEN  CURRANTS. 

Make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pint  of  spring  water  and  five  ounces  of 
lump  sugar  boiled  together  ten  minutes.  Strip  a  pint  of  green 
currants  ftom  the  stalks,  and  simmer  them  in  the  syrup  five  min- 
utes, 

COMPOTE   OF   GREEN   GOOSEBERRIES. 

Make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  five  ounces  of  good 
lump  sugar  broken  fine,  boiled  together  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and 
skimmed.  Simmer  gently  in  this  syrup  for  eight  or  ten  minutes  a 
pint  of  gooseberries  freed  from  tops  and  stalks  and  well  washed 
and  drained  ;  these  compotes  will  only  keep  good  two  or  three  days  ; 
transparency  of  the  fruit  will  be  iniireased  by  using  more  sugar  in 
the  syrup. 

COMPOTE    OF    PEACHES. 

Pare  them,  and  remove  the  stone,  boil  gently  until  tender,  take 
them  off  and  put  them  in  cold  water.  Then  put  them  in  clarified 
sugar,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  set  them  again  over  the  fire,  and 
when  done  enough,  pour  them  out  into  dishes. 

CHERRY   CHEESE. 

Take  the  stones  from  twelve  pounds  of  cherries,  break  the  stones 
of  part  of  the  cherries  and  blanch  the  kernels ;  take  these  with  the 
fruit  and  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  put  into  a  kettle,  and  boil  all 
gently  till  the  jam  becomes  quite  clear ;  pour  into  small  and  rather 
eballow  pots,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  185 


(ioosp:berry  fool. 

Put  Into  a  deep  dish  some  green  gooseberries,  a  quart  or  more 
if  desired,  after  baking  them  in  the  ovi'n  until  (juite  soft,  pulp 
them  through  a  colander  and  add  pounded  sugar  to  taste.  AV^hen 
it  is  cold,  mix  in  a  gill  of  cream  to  each  quart  of  berries,  and  serve 
in  a  glass  dish. 

PINEAPPLE    FRITTERS. 

/  Take  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
new  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  eggs,  and  make  the  same  into  a 
h'ght  battter,  adding  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  first  beaten  into  a 
light  froth.  Bruise  half  a  dozen  slices  of  a  round  ripe  pineapple 
into  a  pulp  and  stir  it  well  up  with  the  batter,  adding  at  the  same 
time  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  grated  fine.  Put  the  pan  over 
a  brisk  fire,  and  ladle  out  the  batter  into  the  pan  as  it  may  be  re- 
quired, according  to  the  size  of  the  fritters.  Fry  them  in  fresh 
butter  turning  them  only  once,  when  they  will  assume  a  brown, 
crisp  complexion.  When  quite  done  remove  them  into  a  dish, 
sprinkling  over  them  a  dessert-spoonful  of  powdered  loaf  sugar. 
Apple  and  currant  fritters  can  be  prepared  after  a  like  manner. 
The  cinnamon  can  be  dispensed  with  if  objected  to. 

ORANGE   FRITTERS. 

/  Take  three  oranges,  or  more  if  desired,  peel  them,  and  pick  off 
the  white  part  without  breaking  the  thin  inner  skin ;  then  tea? 
them  into  the  natural  divisions  of  the  orange ;  each  one  will  make 
from  seven  to  eight  pieces.  Dip  each  into  a  light  batter ;  fry 
them  in  hot  fat,  not  too  brown.  Serve  as  soon  as  convenient  with 
sifted  sugar  over  them. 

STEWED   PRL^NES. 

Soak  the  prunes  in   cold   water,  if  not  very  dry,  for   one  hour 
but  if  they  are  old  a  longer  time  is  necessary.     Stew  them,  closely 
covered  with  a  thin  syrup,  with  lemon  peel  chopped  finely,  for  three 
iiours. 

GOOD   COMMON   PRESERVE. 

Boil  together  in  equal  or  unequal  portions  any  kinds  of  early 


186  DESSEKT    DISHES. 

fruit  until  they  can  be  pressed  through  a  sieve,  weigh  the  pulp  and 
and  boil  it  over  a  brisk  fire  half  an  hour,  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  each  pound  of  fruit,  again  boil  it  quickly,  stirring  and  skim- 
ming, from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes ;  cherries  if  used,  should  be 
stewed  tender  apart,  as  they  require  a  longer  time  than  other  sum- 
mer fruits. 

A   NICE   AND    CHEAP   DESSERT. 

Cook  a  teacup  of  rice  very  thoroughly,  putting  In  water  first, 
afterwards  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  When  it  is  done  to  a  jelly,  add 
a  table-spoonful  of  currant-jelly,  or  half  a  teacup  of  any  fruit- 
juice,  that  is  of  a  bright  color ;  and  put  it  over  the  fire  a  few  min- 
utes. Turn  It  Into  a  mould,  to  cool ;  and  eat  with  sweetened 
cream,  or  cream  and  dry  white  sugar. 

ANOTHER. 

Tie  a  cup  and  a  half  of  rice,  which  has  been  well  washed,  in  a 
bag  with  a  few  raisins.  Allow  plenty  of  room  to  swell,  and  boil 
an  hour  or  more.  Turn  out,  and  pour  over  It  some  boilling  syrup, 
in  which  a  small  piece  of  butter  has  been  melted. 

LOPPERED   MILK. 

A  delicious  summer  dessert  consists  simply  of  milk  which  has 
thickened,  take  it  out  quivering,  like  custard,  and  eat  with  cream 
and  white  sugar.  It  must  not  be  allowed  to  whei/,  as  it  is  then  not 
loppered  but  sour  milk.     It  is  a  favorite  dish  in  Germany. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

It  Is  not  necessary  to  urge  upon  any  one  the  eating  of  this  de- 
b'clous  fruit ;  everybody,  man,  woman,  and  child,  anticipates  the 
season  with  pleasure.  But  we  should  like  to  urge  upon  all  who 
possess  a  few  feet  of  ground  the  wisdom  of  cultivating  a  **  straw- 
berry patch."  So  great  a  gift,  so  profusely  bestowed  in  return  for 
a  little  labor,  ought  to  be  shared  by  the  poorest.  We  hope  the 
time  will  come  when  fruit  will  be  so  plentiful  and  so  cheap  that  it 
can  be  picked  by  the  weary,  thirsty  traveller  on  the  roadside 
Why  should  not  apple-trees,  cherry-trees,  plum-trees,  peach-trees, 
and  pear-trees  be  planted  along  the  unsightly  fences,  hiding  them, 


DESSERT    DISHES.  187 

and  supplying  God's  good  gifts,  without  money  or  price,  to  those 
who  need  them  ?  The  man  who  shall  first  endow  his  farm  in  this 
way  will,  at  small  cost,  become  a  public  benefactor,  and  establish 
a  claim  to  immortality.  But  to  return  to  strawberries  :  this  is  so 
perfect  a  fruit,  so  exquisite  in  flavor,  so  excellent  in  quality,  that 
cooking,  or  manipulation  of  any  kind,  rather  impairs  than  improves 
it  A  little  white  sugar  and  cream  is  the  only  addition  that  can 
be  made,  and  even  this  is  a  concession  to  our  unnaturally  sweeten- 
ed and  perverted  palates,  rather  than  to  the  necessities  of  the  case. 
As  for  strawberry  pie,  strawberry  dumpling,  strawberry  pudding, 
and  the  whole  range  of  disTies  in  which  strawberries  are  cool'pd^ 
they  should  be  stricken  out  of  every  housekeeper's  list,  with  a  s^^i- 
gle  reservation  in  favor  of  '*  strawberry  cake,"  in  which,  however, 
the  strawberries  are  not  cooked,  and  which  is  so  great  a  pet  wiJb 
the  male  as  well  as  female  part  of  every  household,  that  we  dare 
not  say  a  word  against  it,  even  if  it  was  not  one  of  our  own  special 
weaknesses. 

STRAWBERRY    SHORTCAKE. 

Mix  dough  as  for  soda  buscuit ;  that  is  to  say,  one  quart  of  sift- 
ed flour,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  tea-spoonsful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sweet  milk  to 
form  a  soft  dough.  Put  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  soda  in 
dry  also,  and,  when  thoroughly  mixed,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick 
and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  have  ready 
two  quarts  of  fresh,  fine  strawberries;  split  the  cake,  place  half 
the  strawberries  between  and  cover  thickly  with  white  sugar  and 
cream ;  put  the  other  half  on  the  top  and  cover  in  the  same  way ; 
send  to  the  table  immediately.  This  is  the  method  of  making  at 
the  finest  city  restaurants. 

FRUIT   FOR   DESSERT. 

Add  a  little  water  to  the  white  of  an  eg^,  and  beat  it  well ;  dip 
the  fruit  in  and  immediately  sprinkle  it  all  over  with  powdered 
sugar.  Then  leave  it  for  four  or  five  hours,  and  serve  with  cus- 
tard, loppered  milk,  or  ice  corn-starch  pudding.  Large  and  fair 
bunches  of  red  and  white  currants  make  a  charming  dish  in  this 
way.  Strawberries,  blackberries,  cherries  or  raspberries,  are  ei- 
ther of  them  suitable. 


188  DESSERT    DISHES 


SUMMER  FRUITS    MIXED. 

Take  fino,  fresh  strawberries,  white  and  red  currants,  and 
white  or  red  strawberries ;  strip  thein  carefully  from  the  stalks, 
and  heap  them  high  on  a  dessert  dish  in  layers,  strewing  each  la}- 
er  v/ith  sifted  sugar.  Before  serving  lay  thick  cream  entirely  ovei- 
the  fruit,  and  gently  stir  them  with  a  spoon  when  served.  Some 
use  instead  of  cream  two  wine-glasses  full  of  Sherry,  Madeira  or 
any  other  good  white  wine.  Either  currants  or  strawberries  by 
theniselves,  are  good,  prepared  in  this  way. 

RHUBARB,    OR    PIE    PLANT. 

This  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  spring  luxuries,  though  the  quan- 
tity of  sugar  required  to  be  used  with  it  renders  it  rather  expen- 
sive. Remove  the  stringy  part, and  cut  up  into  small  slices  either 
for  stewing  or  pies,  no  spice  is  required,  but  sugar  may  be  put  in 
as  long  as  your  conscience  will  let  you,  and  a  handful  afterwards. 

QULNCES    FOR    THE    TABLE. 

Bake  them ;  remove  the  skin,  slice  them  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

APPLE   PIQUE. 

Peel  and  stew  some  apples,  but  do  not  let  them  break.  Place 
them  in  a  glass  dish  half  full  of  syrup,  and  put  a  piece  of  currant 
jelly  on  the  top  of  each  apple. 

TOMATOES. 

These  can  be  eaten  raw,  when  ripe,  with  salt,  pepper  and  vine- 
gar or  sugar.  By  pouring  boiling  water  on  them,  the  skin  can  be 
taken  off,  then  cut  them  in  pieces  and  cover  them  with  powdered 
sugar. 

A   DESSERT   OF   CHESTNUTS 

vt  Boil  Spanish  chestnuts  very  soft  and  pulp  them  through  a  sieve. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  pounded  white  sugar,  to  a  thick  froth 
pile  the  chesnuts  in  a  dish,  and  cover  thickly  with  the  whip,  just 
before  stirrinoj. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  189 


LEMON   PASTE    TO    KEEP. 

To  one  pound  of  butter,  put  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  six  eggs 
(loaving  out  the  whites  of  two,)  the  rind  grated,  and  the  juice  of 
tliree  lemons.  Put  all  in  a  pan,  and  let  simmer  till  the  sugar  ia 
dissolved,  and  it  thickens  to  the  consistency  of  honey.  Put  it  into 
pots,  and  close  them  air  tight. 

LEMON   FLAVOR. 

/  When  lemons  are  plenty  procure  a  quantity,  cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  and  lay  them  on  the  plates  to  dry  in  the  oven ;  when  dry 
put  them  into  a  tight  bag  or  close  vessel,  in  the  store  room,  -ivh^'re 
they  are  both  handy  and  agreeable  for  almost  anything. 

TINCTURE    OF    LEMON    OR    ORANGE   PEEL. 

'  A  fine  flavor  for  cake,  sauces,  and  the  like,  may  be  easily,  and 
cheaply  obtained,  by  taking  a  thin  rind  off  any  lemons,  or  oranges, 
that  may  be  used,  and  putting  it  into  a  bottle  half  full  of  brandy, 
or  proof  spirit.  A  few  weeks  will  suffice  to  impregnate  it  very 
strongly  with  the  flavor. 

COUNTRY    ICE   CRPLVM. 

Any  family  having  ice  and  milk,  can  make  ice  cream  without  a 
freezer  as  follows:  Scald  two  quarts  of  fresh  milk, — if  a  little 
err  ^im  be  added  all  the  better, — stirring  in  three  table-spoonsful  of 
com  starch  or  arrow  root,  to  give  it  body.  These  may  be  omitted 
if  net  at  hand.  Stir  well  to  keep  from  burning.  Beat  up  four  to 
eight  eggs,  according  to  convenience,  and  pour  the  scalding  milk 
on  the  eggs,  stirring  well.  When  cold  add  sugar  and  essence  of 
lemon,  or  extract  of  vanilla,  to  suit  the  taste,  and  a  very  little  salt. 
Pour  the  cold  contents  into  a  deep  tm  pail,  or  can,  holding  about 
three  quarts ;  put  on  the  cover,  and  set  in  an  ordinary  water  pail. 
Pound  up  ice  to  the  size  of  hens'  eggs  and  less,  some,  of  course, 
will  be  quite  fine  ;  paqk  it  around  the  tin  can,  mixing  in  about  one 
pint  of  either  medium  or  fine  salt ;  pack  this  till  it  reaches  nearly 
to  the  top  of  the  can  containing  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  but  be 
careful  none  enters  it.  Now  move  the  tin  can  or  pail  around  by 
means   of  its  bail,  lifting  the  cover  occasionally  to  scrape  olF  the 


X 


190  DESSERT    DISHES. 

frozen  cream  on  the  inside,  so  that  other  portions  may  come  in 
contact  with  the  freezing  surface.  From  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes 
will  be  sufficient,  and  the  dish  may  be  served  up  at  once  or  set 
away,  without  removing  from  the  wooden  pail,  in  a  cool  place  for 
several  hours,  covered  with  a  flannel  cloth. 

STRAWBERRY   ICE    CREAM. 

Take  two  pounds  of  fresh  strawberries,  carefully  picked,  and 
with  a  wooden  spoon  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  about  half 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  color  with 
a  few  drops  of  prepared  cochineal ;  cream,  one  pint.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  ascertain  that  the  sweetness  is  correct;  then 
freeze.  This  will  make  a  quart.  When  fresh  strawberries  are  not 
in  season,  take  strawberry  jam,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  cream,  to 
one  quart.     Color,  strain,  and  freeze. 

APPLE    ICE. 

Take  nice  apples,  grate  them,  make  them  very  sweet  and  freeze 
them.     Pears,  peaches,  and  quinces  can  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

MOLASSES    CANDY. 

Boil  slowly  a  quart  of  molasses,  stirring  occasionally.  To  find 
when  it  is  done,  drop  a  spoonful  of  it  into  some  cold  water ;  if  it 
breaks  brittle,  take  it  off.  Have  some  flat  pans  well  buttered,  pour 
the  candy  hot  into  them,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  When  nearly 
cool,  take  it  from  the  pans  and  stretch  it  for  a  long  time  until  it  be- 
comes a  clear  light  color.  While  boiling,  it  can  be  flavored  accord 
ing  to  taste,  or  mixed  with  nuts  or  pop  corn.  A  small  piece  of 
alum  put  in  will  make  it  more  brittle. 

SUGAR   TAFFY. 

Dissolve  three  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,  in  which  half 
a  teaspoon  of  citric  acid  has  been  dissolved  ;  boil  it,  and  remove  the 
scum.  When  it  will  crack  after  being  dropped  in  cold  water  take 
off,  and  squeeze  and  mix  in  the  juice  of  three  lemons  or  oranges. 
Boil  again  until  thick  as  before,  then  pour  into  buttered  pans,  in  a 
Ihin  layer.  Mark  it  off  into  square  blocks  before  it  cools,  so  that 
it  will  break  regularly. 


DESSERT    DISHES.  191 


LEMON   DROPS. 

Boil  clarified  syrup  until  It  will  crack  when  dropped  In  water ; 
flavor  it  with  lemon,  then  pour  it  in  small  drops  on  buttered  paper, 
and  set  aside  to  get  cold 

CFOCOLATE    I>ROPS. 

Throw  Into  a  well-heated  metal  mortar,  from  two  to  four  ounces 
of  the  best  quality  of  cake  chocolate,  broken  small,  and  pound  it 
with  a  warm  pestle  until  it  resembles  a  smooth  paste  or  very  thick 
batter ;  then  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  in  the  finest  powder, 
and  beat  them  until  they  are  thoroughly  blended.  Roll  the  mixture 
into  small  balls,  lay  them  on  sheets  of  writing  paper,  or  upon 
clean  dishes,  and  take  them  off  when  nearly  cold.  While  soft,  the 
tops  may  be  encrusted  with  white  nonpareil  comfits. 

SYRUPS   FOR    CANDIES. 

To  a  pint  of  cold  water  put  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  let  It  dis- 
solve, add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  beat  the  mixture  well.  Put 
it  on  the  fire,  when  it  boils  up  take  it  off  and  remove  the  scum. 
Put  it  on  the  fire  again,  let  it  boil  up  and  throw  in  a  few  drops  of 
cold  water ;  take  It  off  again  and  remove  the  scum,  and  so  contin- 
ue until  no  scum  rises. 

BARLEY  SUGAR,   (fov  Children,) 

Soak  a  quart  of  barley  over  night,  in  the  morning  boll  It  gently 
in  more  water,  until  it  becomes  a  clear  and  rather  thin  jelly.  Add 
to  this  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil 
agfain,  until  clear  and  stiff,  so  that  when  poured  out  in  buttered 
plafjs  or  saucers,  it  will  set  hard.  The  white  of  an  egg  improve! 
it. 


SWEET  CAKES. 


POUND    CAKE. 


Peat  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  then  add  a  pound  of  sugar  and  Lalf  a 
pound  uf  butter,  beat  all  well  together;  dissolve  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Take  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  and 
rub  a  ttja-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar  through  it  with  your  hands ; 
add  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  butter ;  stir  all  thoroughly  together,  flavor 
it  to  your  taste,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SP^)XGE    CAKE. — 1. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cu[>  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
both  put  in  one  cup  with  two  tea-spoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  and  dis- 
solved. Beat  the  cake  very  thoroughly,  then  add  a  half  tea-spoon- 
ful of  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  (juick  oven.  This  is  good  enough 
for  a  party,  yet  not  expensive. 

SrOXGE   CAKE.— 2. 

Four,  six.  eight,  or  ten  eggs,  weight  of  eggs  in  powdered  sugar, 
half  that  weight  in  flour.  Beat  the  yolks  ten  minutes,  mix  th**w 
well  with  sugar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon.  Beat 
whites  separate,  and  stir  in  last. 

ALMOND    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound  of  flour,, a  few  drops 
of  lemon.  When  these  ingredients  are  well  beaten,  add  half-pound 
of  sweet  almonds,  blanched,  and  pounded  in  a  white  mortar  or 
stout  bowl.     To   blanch  them — that  is,  skin  them — pour   boiling 


SWEET    CAKES.  193 

water  upon  them.     Add  a  little  peach  extract,  and  bake  in  a  brisk 
oven.     This  is  very  rich. 

RICE   FLOUR    SPONGE   CAKE. 

Make  like  sponge  cake,  except  that  you  use  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  rice  flour,  thirteen  eggs,  leaving  out  four  whites,  and  add 
a  little  salt. 

MRS.  V.  S   SrONGE   CAKE. 

One  tumbler  of  flour,  one  of  fine  white  sugar,  five  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  one  half  tea-spoon  soda.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks,  and  lastly,  the 
flour;  flavor  with  lemon,  and  bake  to  cut  in  squares. 

A    NICE   TEA    DISH. 

This  cake  is  very  nice  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  layers  of  canned 
peaches,  or  canned  strawberries  laid  between,  sift  over  the  whole 
powdered  sugar.     The  same  receipt  makes  delicious  jelly  cake. 

A    MAGNIFICENT    CHRISTMAS    CAKE. 1. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  rai- 
sins, stoned  and  chopped,  two  pounds  of  currants  cleaned,  one 
pound  of  citron,  cut  in  strips,  one  pound  of  butter,  ten  eggs  well- 
beaten,  four  tea-spoonsful  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  flour,  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  allspice  to  taste,  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  and  beat  thoroughly.  Put  in  plenty  of  spice. 
Bake  four  or  five  hours,  and  then  ice.  Trim  it  with  holly  wreath, 
and  branch. 

CII RISTMAS   CAKE.  — 2. 

Foul  eggs,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  molaeses, 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  shortening,  (half  butter  and  half  lard),  one 
cup  of  milk,  either  sweet  or  sour,  five  cups  of  flour,  two  large 
tea-spoonsful  of  soda,  two  large  tea-spoonsful  of  grouiid  cloves 
one  grated  nutmeg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  pound  of 
chopped  raisins,  citron.  A  table-spoonful  of  brandy  in: proves  this. 
Eggs  not  to  be  beaten. 


19i  SWEET   CAKES. 


FINE   FRUIT   CAKE. 

Soak  three  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night  In  cold  water  enough 
to  swell  them,  chop  them  in  the  morning,  and  put  them  on  the  fire 
with  three  cups  of  molasses.  Stew  until  soft,  but  not  pulpy. 
When  cold,  mix  with  them  three  cups  of  flour,  a  cup  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  and  a  tea-spoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  a  steady  oven. 
This  will  make  two  good-sized  pans  full  of  splendid  cake.  The 
iipph'S  will  cook  like  citron,  and  taste  deliciously.  Raisins  may  be 
added  if  desired,  and  salt  and  plenty  of  spice — allspice  if  liked. 

PORK   FRUIT   CAKE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  flit  corned  pork,  chop  it  very  fine.  Mix 
it  with  one  pound  of  raisins  chopped,  five  cups  of  flour;  one 
cup  of  molasess,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk  or 
wine,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus.  Spice  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  and  half  a  table-spoonful  of  cin- 
namon. This  will  keep  all  winter  and  is  better  after  being  kept  a 
considerable  time. 

A  FINE   BRIDE   CAKE. 

Three  pounds  of  fine  flour  well  dried,  three  pounds  of  pounded 
sugar,  three  pounds  of  fresh  butter,  six  pounds  of  currants  well 
washed  and  dried,  two  pounds  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  one  pound 
of  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  thin,  one  pound  of  citron,  one 
pound  of  lemon  peel,  one  pound  of  orange  peel,  quarter  ounce  of 
mace  powdered  and  sifted  fine,  quarter  ounce  of  nutmeg  grated, 
twenty-four  eggs,  and  half  pint  of  fruit  syrup.  First  work  the 
butter  to  a  cream  with  the  hand,  then  beat  in  the  sugar  for  quartei 
of  an  hour.  Let  the  whites  of  the  eggs  be  beaten  to  a  strong  froth, 
then  mix  with  the  sugar  and  butter ;  beat  the  yolk  half  an  hour  at 
least,  and  add  them  ;  next  dust  in  the  flour,  beating  the  cake  the 
whole  time  ;  and  the  other  ingredients  by  degrees,  and  keep  beating 
until  the  oven  is  ready  ;  butter  the  hoop,  and  line  it  also  with  a  but- 
tered paper  before  putting  in  the  cake.  It  will  take  four  hours 
ill  a  moderate  oven. 

The  Almond  Icing. — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  strong  frotb, 
beat  two  pounds  of  almonds  (which  have  been  pounded  in  a  mortal ) 


SWEET    CAKES.  195 

with  a  little  rose-water ;  mix  the  almonds  and  eggs  lightly  together, 
and  add  by  degrees  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  pounded.  When  the 
cake  Is  done,  lay  this  icing  upon  it,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Sitgar  Iciiig. — Two  pounds  of  sugar  sifted,  two  ounces  of  fine 
srarch ;  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  strong  froth ;  sift  in  the 
sugar  and  starch,  and  beat  for  half  an  hour  ;  lay  this  on  the  almond 
icing,  and  spread  smooth  with  a  knife.  If  put  on  when  the  cake 
comes  out  of  the  oven,  it  will  be  hard  by  the  time  it  is  cold.  The 
cake  must  be  kept  in  a  dry  place  until  wanted  for  use. 

CONNECTICUT    ELECTION   CAKE. 

Ten  pounds  of  flour,  five  pounds  of  shortening,  equal  parts  but- 
ter and  lard  salted.  Work  shortening  into  flour  very  fine,  no 
knobs,  then  add  a  quart  of  brewer's  yeast.  Take  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  it  a  little  softer  than  biscuit.  Work  it  a  long  time, 
until  it  begins  to  grow  light.  If  you  see  the  butter  round  the  dish 
while  rising  do  not  be  frightened.  Let  it  stand  and  rise  until  it 
cracks  open.  While  it  Is  rising,  weigh  five  and  a  half  pounds  of 
white  sugar,  break  ten  eggs  in  a  large  dish,  work  the  sugar  and  eggs 
together ;  five  pounds  of  raisins,  either  seeded  or  chopped ;  soak 
them  in  two  gills  of  the  best  sweet  cider;  two  table-spoonsful  of 
powdered  mace,  two  nutmegs,  the  rind  of  two  oranges,  chopped 
fine.  Add  citron  if  you  choose.  After  the  cake  Is  raised  enough, 
work  in  all  the  above  ingredients,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  It  rises  again.     Then  bake.     This  makes  twenty  large  loaves. 

INDEPENDENCE   CAKE. 

Twenty  pounds  of  flour,  fifteen  pounds  of  sugar,  ten  pounds  of 
butter,  four  dozen  of  eggs,  one  quart  of  wme,  one  quart  of  brandy, 
one  ounce  of  nutmegs,  three  ounces  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and 
mace,  two  pounds  of  citron,  five  pounds  each  of  currants  and  rai- 
sins, and  one  quart  of  yeast.  Frost  it,  and  dress  it  with  box  and 
rose  leaf. 

NEW   HAVEN   COMMENCEMENT    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  yeast,  three  nutmegs,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  cinnamon,  and 
five  eggs.     Set  to  rise  over  night.     In  the  morning  add  a  tea-spooD 


196  SWEET    CAKES. 

of  soda,  and  as  much  chopped  raisins  and  chipped  citron  as  you 
choose,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  before  baking.  A  little  raspber- 
ry vinegar  or  melted  currant  jelly  will  improve  it.     Ice  it 

PLUM    CAKE. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk  or 
butter-milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  or  volatile  salts,  a  gill  of 
brandy,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon  and  suflicient  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  this  well  together,  add  half  a  pound  of 
raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  washed  and 
dried  by  the  fire,  and  one  quarter  of  citron,  and  bake  In  a  brisk 
oven. 

NEW   year's    IIICKORY-NUT   CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  pound 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  two  tea-spoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda, 
half-cup  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  the  cake  thoroughly,  and  then  stir 
in  a  small  measure  of  hickory-nuts,  first,  of  course,  taking  them 
from  the  shell.  Bake  in  a  steady  but  not  quick  oven.  This  is  a 
very  fine  cake. 

HUCKLEBERRY   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  eg^^,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  any  preferred  essence,  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Put  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  soda  In  the  milk, 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  last  a  pint  of  dried  huckleberries,  and 
bake  In  a  quick  oven.     This  is  cheap  and  good. 

LOAF    CAKE. 

Stir  into  two  quarts  of  flour  a  pint  of  milk,  slightly  warmed, 
and  a  sm  11  tea-cup  of  yeast.  Place  it  near  the  fire,  where  it  will 
rise  quickly.  When  perfectly  light,  work  In  with  the  hand  four 
beaten  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  cinnamon,  a  wine  glass 
of  currant  jelly,  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  some  chipped  citron.  Stir 
a  pound  of  sugar  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter;  when 
white  work  it  into  cake;  add  another  quart  of  sifted  flour,  and 
beat  the   whole   with  the  hand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  set  it 


SWEET    CAKES.  197 

where  it  will  rise  again.  AVhen  of  a  spongy  lightness,  put  it  into 
buttered  cake  pans  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
before  baking.  Add  if  you  like,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  raisins 
just  before  putting  the  cake  into  pans. 

NEW    year's   cake. 

Three  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  and  a  half 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tea-spoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  caraway  seeds. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  two  pounds  of  apples  pared 
and  cut  thin,  and  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon  ;  put  a  pint  of  water  to 
the  sugar  and  boil  it  to  a  syrup ;  put  the  apples  to  it  and  boil  it 
quite  thick.  Put  it  into  a  mould  to  cool,  and  send  it  cold  to  table, 
with  a  custard  or  cream  poured  round  it. 

CURRANT   CAKE. 

Beat  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  to  a  cream  ;  take  one  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  sugar,  and  one  and  a  quarter  of  currants  washed  and 
picked,  and  beat  up  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  put  in 
the  sugar  by  degrees,  then  a  pound  of  flour  and  currants ;  add  a 
giU  of  brandy,  some  candied  orange  and  citron ;  beat  the  nn'xture 
till  very  light;  and  bake  it  in  pans. 

FINE   ALMOND   CAKE. 

Boil  a  pound  and  quarter  of  finely  sifted  loaf  sugar  to  a  candy ; 
have  ready  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  well  blanched  and  pounded, 
adding  a  little  orange-flower  water  while  pounding  to  keep  'them 
from  oiling ;  put  them  in  the  sugar  with  the  rind  of  two  lemons 
grated  very  thin  and  as  much  juice  as  to  make  it  of  a  sharp  taste. 
Place  this  in  glasses  in  the  oven  ;  stir  them  often  to  keep  them 
from  candying;  when  a  little  dry  put  the  mijiture  upon  jDaper  in 
small  cakes  to  harden. 

LEMON   CA KE .  —  1 . 

Rub  one  tea-cup  of  butter  and  three  tea-citps  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar  to  a  cream ;   beat  and   stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  a 


198  SWEET    CAKES. 

tea-cup  of  milk,  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs;  then  sift  in  four  tea-cups  of  prepared  flour, 
and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour  in  two  long  tins.  It  can  be  iced 
to  advantage, 

LEMON    CAKE. — 2. 

Beat  well  together  one  egg^  a  small  piece  of  butter,  flour,  and 
lbs  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  with  sufficient  lump  sugar  to  sweeten 
it.  Roll  them  very  thin,  cut  them  into  such  shapes  as  desired,  and 
bake  on  a  tin  in  a  brisk  oven. 

PICNIC   CAKES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  half  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Mix  with  sifted  flour  to  the  consistency  of 
cookies,  cut  in  strips,  which  roll  in  powdered  sugar  and  twist  into 
round  cakes.     Bake  a  very  light  brown. 

MRS.  Bristol's  bread  cake. 

Four  cups  of  light  dough,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  nutmeg,  raisins.  This 
makes  two  large  loaves,  and  constitutes  a  fine,  cheap  and  healthy 
fruit  cake. 

*' portage  falls"  cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separate;  two 
tea-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Put 
the  cream  of  tartar  in  the  milk  and  the  soda  in  the  flour.  Beat 
long  and  well ;  bake  in  a  mould,  in  each  section  of  which  drop 
several  strips  of  citron.     It  should  be  iced. 

poverty  cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
saleratus,  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  spice  to  your  taste, 
mix  to  a  batter. 

snow  cake. 
Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  pounded  loaf  su- 


SWEET    CAKES.  199 

gar,  whites  only  of  six  eggs,  and  one  pound  of  arrowroot.  Beat 
the  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  arrowroot  and  sugar  gradually, 
boating  all  the  time ;  beat  the  six  whites  separately,  in  a  basin, 
and  when  a'*stiff  froth,  add  to  the  mixture;  put  a  few  drops  of  any 
sort  of  essence  either  lemon,  almond,  or  vanilla,  and  beat  all  for 
twenty  minutes.  Then  put  into  a  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  ov- 
en, great  care  being  taken  that  the  outside  is  not  burnt  before  the 
inside  is  done.  Some  persons  cut  snow  cake  into  slices  before 
sending  it  to  table,  having  previously  cut  off  the  outside  and  sifted 
powdered  sugar  over  each  slice. 

SMALL   SEED    CAKES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  half  a  cup 
of  seeds,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  very  thin, 
with  sugar  instead  instead  of  flour,  on  the  board,  and  cut  it  in 
round  shapes.     Bake  it  about  fifteen  minutes. 

CREAM    CAKE. — 1. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  sour  cream,  two  of  sifted  flour,  two 
eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  of  soda,  half  of 
salt.  Flavor  with  essence  of  ahnond.  It  is  quickly  made,  and 
deUcious  eaten  fresh. 

CREAM    CAKE.— 2. 

Mix  a  quart  of  flour,  a  pint  or  more  of  sweet  cream,  to  wet  it 
well,  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  sour  cream 
and  bake. 

CREAM    CAKES. 

(^Outside.)  Two  cups  of  flour,  half-cup  of  butter,  half-pint  cold 
water.  Boil  the  butter  and  water  together,  and  stir  the  flour  in 
gradually  vvhile  boiling.  Let  it  cool ;  then  add  five  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  saleratus,  and  a  little  salt.  Drop  the  mixture  on  tins,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

{Inside.)  One  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  white  sugar,  half-cup  uf 
flour,  two  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  flour  together,  and 
stir  them  in  the  milk  while  boiling.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  each  cake,  and  put  in  the  filling  after  the 
«jakes  cool. 


200  SWEET    CAKES. 


CORNETS    A    CREME. 

These  are  little  cakes,  made  of  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  three 
ounces  of  white  sugar  melted  in  a  few  drops  of  water  upon  the 
f  re,  two  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  and  a  little  essence  of  lemon ; 
this  mixture  is  baked  very  thin  upon  buttered  pans,  and  then  roll- 
ed round  Into  small  cornucopias,  and  filled  with  a  whip  of  cream 
and  a  little  powdered  sugar. 

PORTUGAL   CAKE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  and 
four  eggs,  beat  the  mixture  well  till  it  Is  light  and  looks  curdling; 
flavor  It  with  mace,  add  half  a  pound  of  currants  and  a  pound  of 
flour;  mix  all  together,  put  it  In  pans  and  bake  In  a  mild  oven. 

GLEN    VIS   CAKE. 

Take  one  large  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  spice,  and  a  proportionate  quantity  of  flour. 
By  using  the  whites  only  of  three  eggs  the  cake  Is  made  finer  and 
whiter. 

WARSAW   WHITE   CAKE. 

Take  one  and  a  half  large  cups  of  flour,  mix  half  of  it  with  two 
table-spoonsful  of  melted  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
ter, and  some  milk  ;  mix  the  other  half  with  some  milk  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Add  to  these  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  beat  all 
together  and  bake.  The  milk  for  cake  should  always  be  divided, 
and  the  soda  dissolved  In  one  portion  and  the  cream  of  tartar  in 
the  other. 

SOUTH    CAROLINA   CAKE. 

One  small  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  half  a  tea-spoonsful  of  soda,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  milk,  a 
little  brandy,  and  a  cup  of  raisins. 

CIDER   CAKE 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  mix  them  together, 


SWEET    CAKES.  201 

and  break  In  two  or  three  eggs ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  flour,  one 
nutmeg,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus ;  put  into  it  one  cupful 
of  cider,  or  pour  the  cider  foaming  over  it ;  then  add  two  cups  full 
of  flour;  mix  the  whole  well  together,  and  bake  it  three  quarters 
of  an  hour. 

CONNECTICUT   COFFEE   CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  coffee  (liquid),  three 
fourths  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  each  of 
CaOVCS,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  one  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

FRIED   CAKES    WITHOUT    EGGS    OR   MILK. 

Melt  a  small  table-spoonful  of  lard  in  a  pint  of  hot  water;  add  a 
heaping  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  in  smoothly  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  sufficient  sifted 
flour  to  make  a  batter ;  add  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
nutmeg  if  desired,  and  work  the  dough  quickly,  but  thoroughly. 
Roll  it  out  thin,  cut  into  round  cakes  and  fry  immediately. 

FRIED    CAKES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  half- cup  butter,  two  eggs, 
two  tea-spoonsful  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  spice.  Add  flour  in  sufficient  quantity  to  roll  in  shape,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

GINGER   POUND   CAKE   WITH   FRUIT. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  two  pounds  of  flour,  six  eggs,  one  quart  of  molasses, 
half  a  pound  of  currants,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  three 
table-spoonsful  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  cinnamon,  three  tea-spoonsful  of  baking  powder  dis- 
solved in  a  few  spoonsful  of  milk.     Bake  one  hour. 

CRULLERS. 

Three  t'ggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  tea-spoonsful  of  baking  powder,  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 


202  SWEET    CAKES. 

and  lemon  juice  to  taste,  flour  sufficient  to  stiffen.     Cut  in  stripes 
and  fry  in  lard. 

CUP   CAKE. — 1. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  suirar,  four 
eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  nutmeg,  and  essence  of  lemon, 

CUP  CAKE. — 2. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter,  with  three  cups  of  sugar,  by  beating; 
stir  in  five  eggs  ;  dissolve  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of 
gweet  milk ;  add  six  cups  of  sifted  flour ;  stir  all  well  together, 
and  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  milk,  without  any  more  soda. 
Flavor  with  essence  of  lemon,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Stir 
all  well  together,  and  bake  in  three  pans. 

MOLASSES    CUP   CAKE. 

Butter  one  half  cup,  molasses  one  cup,  sugar  one  cup,  sweet 
milk  one  cup,  three  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  half  tea- spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  molasses.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  together  well 
first,  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  eggs  well-beaten  being  the 
last.     This  is  very  good. 

CAKE   WITHOUT    EGGS. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  a  pint  and  a  half  or  two  pints  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  a 
spoonful  of  saleratus,  and  spice  to  taste.  Mix  together  and  bake 
an  hour. 

HARD    TIMES    MOLASSES   CAKE. 

One  large  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  but- 
termilk, half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  four  cups  of  flour.  Good  sweet  dripping,  or 
part  lard,  and  part  butter  may  be  used.  When  lard  is  used  in^ 
gtead  of  butter,  it  should  have  a  little  salt  worked  into  it.  This  is 
very  good. 

jenny's   CAKES. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  two  spoonsful 


SWEET    CAKES.  203 

of  cream  of  tartar,  one  spoonful  of  soda,  a  very  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg ;  mix  very  thin  with  sifted  flour,  and  bake  thin  and  quick. 

MARY^S    TEA-CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  beaten  well,  with  one  cup  of  sugar  then  add  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  or  pork  drippings,  one 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  half  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  a 
little  salt ;  mix  about  as  stiff  as  pound  cake,  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

BIRTHDAY     CAKES. 

Into  a  pound  of  dried  flour,  put  four  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces 
of  sugar,  one  egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  sufficient 
milk  to  wet  to  a  paste.  Put  in  currants,  and  cut  in  cakes.  Sprin- 
kle colored  caraway  seeds  on  top,  and  bake  them  a   light  brown. 

SOCIETY   CAKES. 

One  quart  of  sponge,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  saleratus,  half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  spice  it  and 
bake  slowly. 

SALLY    LUNX. 

Six  cups  of  light  dough,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  and  two  spoonsful  of  white  sugar;  add  floui 
enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  batter,  mix  well,  and 
pour  in  greased  cake-pans ;  let  them  set  in  a  warm  place  one-half 
hour,  and  bake  by  a  slow  fire. 

SALLY   LUNX   THREAD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  a  little  soda,  three  eggs,  one  tea  cup  of  sugar, 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  Ggg,  yeast  sufficient  for  two  loaves 
of  bread.     Make  a  stiff"  batter.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

CHRISTMAS   CAKES   FOR    GOOD    CHILDREN. 

Three  heaping  table-spoonsful  of  sugar,  two  heaping  table- 
spoonsful  of  butter,  one  eggj  two  table-spoonsful  of  corn-starch 
or  maizena,  put  into  three  cups  of  flour,  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  of  soda,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  few  Zante  currants.     Roll  out  in  powdered  sugar, 


204  SWEET    CAKES. 

cut  in  strips,  and  twist  tliem  round  like  champagne  cakes.   Sprinkle 
over  them  colored  caraway  comfits.     Bake  quick,  a  light  brown. 

JUMBLES. 

Sifl  four  cups  of  flour;  cream  two  cups  of  nice  brown  sugar,  and 
lialf  a  pound — a  small  tea-cup — of  butter  is  near  enough;  beat 
two  eggs  very  light,  grate  a  little  nutmeg,  add  one-half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  add  flour  enough 
to  roll  into  cakes  ;  handle  as  little  as  possible  ;  bake  in  a  long  tin 
pan,  in  a  quick  oven. 

WONDERS. 

Table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  egg,  a  little  spice. 
Mix  stiff,  with  flour,  and  boil  in  lard. 

ROCK    CAKES. 

With  a  pound  of  dried  flour  mix  a  third  of  a  pound  of  powder- 
ed sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
three  well-beaten  eggs  and  half  a  pound  of  dried  currants,  wash- 
ed ;  beat  them  all  well  together,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  lem- 
on peel  grated,  pounded  mace  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Prepare 
the  baking  plates  by  sprinkling  a  little  flour  on  them,  and  drop  the 
batter  on  them  with  a  spoon,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  The  batter 
should  be  stiff,  so  that  the  top  of  the  cakes  will  remain  rough. 
Stick  them  with  blanched  almonds  sliced,  and  bake  them  in  a  slack 
oven  until  of  a  light  color. 

SHREWSBURY    CAKE. 

Si^t  three  pounds  of  flour,  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  flavor  it  with 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg ;  beat  three  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  melt- 
ed butter,  so  that  it  will  be  of  a  proper  consistency  to  roll  into 
paste ;  knead  it  well,  roll  it  out  and  cut  in  small  cakes,  prick  them, 
and  bake  them  in  a  brisk  oven. 

NEW    ENGLAND    DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  of 
baker's  yeast.     JNIix  into  a  dough,  with  warm  milk,  and  set  it  to 


SWEET    CAKES.  205 

rise.  Wlien  light,  roll  out  half  an  Inch  thick,  and  cut  into  diamonds. 
Boil  in  a  small  Iron  kettle,  in  lard  which  Is  boiling  hot,  but  must 
not  be  allowed  to  burn.  Turn  when  brown  on  one  side,  and  take 
them  up  with  a  fish  slice. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  and  one  quarter  pounds  of 
Bugar,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter;  add  ginger,  nutmeg, 
and  a  small  cup  of  yeast. 


\- 


COOKIES. 


Two  c'ups  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking  powder,  caraway  seeds,  flour 
enough  to  roll.     These  are  deliciously  light  and  tender. 

PARTY    PUFFS. 

Make  a  rich  paste,  roll  out  thin,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter. 
Lay  them  on  a  shallow  tin  pan,  which  has  been  buttered,  and  roll 
out  a  puff-paste,  which  cut  of  the  same  size.  In  the  centre  of 
each  of  the  pieces  of  puff  paste  cut  a  hole  with  a  suiall  wine  glass, 
leaving  a  rim,  which  place  on  the  top  of  your  first  pieces  of  paste, 
and  bake  all  together  a  light  brown.  Before  putting  in  the  oven, 
brush  them  over  with  sweetened  white  of  ^i^'g ;  it  greatly  Improves 
the  appearance.     Fill  with  jelly  or  sweetmeats  of  any  kind. 

ENGLISH    BUNS. 

Rub  well  together  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  and  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  mix  it  with  sweet  milk  heated,  half 
a  pint  of  ale  yeast,  spice,  and  caraway  seeds ;  knead  it  into  a  hght 
paste,  and  put  It  before  the  fire  to  rise.  Then  work  in  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  roll  it  rather  thin,  cut  into  buns, 
place  them  before  the  fire  to  rise  again,  then  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

BUNS. 

Half  a  cupful  of  yeast,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk, 
or  water,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  to  a  thick  batter ;  let  it  rise 
over  night,  in  the  morning  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful 


206  SWEET    CAKES. 

of  butter,-a  small  tea-spoonful  of  salaratus;  stir  as  stiff  as  biscuit; 
let  it  stand  until  light,  mould,  raise  and  bake.  They  are  excel- 
lent warm,  for  tea. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed, 
two  even  tea-spoonsful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  two  thirds  of  a  tea- 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  table-spoonsful  of  ginger;  mix  as 
quickly  as  possible,  with  flour  enough  to  roll  out  thin,  and  bake 
quickly  to  a  light  brown.  Sorghum  molasses  is  preferred.  They 
will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

GINGER  NUTS. 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  pint  of  molasses, 
and  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Melt  them  together,  and  when  cold 
mix  with  it  three  pounds  of  flour,  half  an  ounce  of  finger,  and  a 
little  lemon  juice. 

SPONGE   GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  or  two  eggs,  one  and  a  half  tea-spoonsful  of  soda,  one  large 
spoonful  of  ginger,  and  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  pound  cake; 
put  the  butter,  molasses  and  ginger  together,  and  make  them 
quite  warm;  then  add  the  flour,  milk,  and  soda  together,  and 
bake  as  soon  as  possible. 

HARD   TIMES   GINGERBREAD. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  parts  of  a  cup 
of  butter,  or  sweet  dripping,  a  coffee-cup  of  water,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salaratus,  a  table  or  tea-spoonful  of  ginger.  Knead  soft, 
roll  half  an  inch  thick.     Bake  quick. 

RICE   CHEESE   CAKES. — 1. 

Beat  threeeggs,  the  whites  separately,  and  four  ounces  of  white 
Bugar  together ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  finely  sifted  ground  rice,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  mix  all  together,  with  a  small  blade 
of  mace  finely  pounded,  and  the  peel  of  two  lemons,  rubbed  on 
sugar.     The  cheese  cakes  to  be  light  must  be  made  ver}^  quick. 


SWEET    CAKES.  207 

Pour  the  batter  into  little  tins  not  quite  full,  and  bake  in  a  brisk 
oven.     Eaten  cold. 

RICE    CHEESE   CAKES. — 2. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  till  tender  in  three  pints  of 
m'lk,  put  in  four  eggs,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  lemon  extract,  nutmeg.  Beat 
well,  and  put  in  paste  in  small  saucers,  or  patty-pans,  and  bake. 

ENGLISH    CHEESE   CAKES. 

Take  six  ounces  of  potatoes,  ard  the  peel  of  four  lemons;  boil 
them  together  until  tender,  and  then  beat  thoroughly  the  lemon- 
peel,  v/ith  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  and  the  potatoes  with 
the  same  quantity  of  butter,  and  a  little  cream  or  milk,  into  which 
an  egg  has  been  beaten.  Mix  all  well  together,  with  a  few  nicely 
cleaned  Zante  currants,  and  bake  in  patty-pans,  lined  with  rich 
paste,  half  an  hour.     Sift  sugar  over  them. 

APPLE    CHEESE    CAKES.  —  1. 

Pare,  core,  and  boil  twelve  apples,  with  enough  water  to  mash 
them ;  beat  them  up  very  smooth,  then  add  three  eggs,  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  and  some  grated  peel,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  beaten  into  a  cream  and  sweetened  with  pounded  loaf  su- 
gar; beat  all  well  in  with  the  apples,  bake  it  in  a  puff  paste,  and 
send  it  up  like  an  open  tart. 

APPLE   CHEESE    CAKE. — 2. 

Pare,  core,  and  boil  twelve  apples,  with  enough  water  to  mash 
them  ;  beat  them  up  very  smooth,  and  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  some  grated  peel,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  beaten  into  a  cream,  and  sweetened  with 
pounded  loaf  sugar ;  beat  all  well  in  with  the  apples.  Bake  it  in 
a  puff  paste,  and  send  it  up  like  open  tarts.  It  is  well  to  make  a 
Bilver  cake  with  these  apple  cheese  cakes,  as  it  makes  a  fine  addi- 
tion to  the  table,  and  uses  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

BREAD    CHEESE    CAKES. 

Slice  up  a  large  French  roll  very  thin,  pour  on  it  some  boiling 


208  '  SWEET    CAKES. 

milk ;  when  cold,  add  four  eg<rs,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
melted,  some  nutmeg,  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  a  little  su- 
gar, and  half  a  pound  of  currants ;  when  mixed  together,  pour  the 
mixture  Into  puff  paste  as  other  cheese-cakes. 

COCOANUT   CHEESE   CAKES. 

Half  a  cocoanut,  three  ounces  of  lump  sugar  in  half  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  water,  the  sugar  being  first  dissolved  in  the  water,  and 
then  the  cocoanut,  grated,  to  be  added ;  let  this  boil  for  a  few 
minutes  over  a  slow  fire,  and,  when  cold,  add  to  it  the  beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one ;  put  the  mixture  into 
tins  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. 

ALMOND  CHEESE    CAKES. 

/  The  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
bitter  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  quarter 
pound  of  sifted  sugar.  The  almonds  must  be  pounded,  but  not 
very  finely.  The  eggs  should  be  beaten  to  a  cream,  and  the  su- 
gar mixed  with  them,  and  then  the  almonds'  added.  To  be  put 
into  tartlet  tins  lined  with  puff  paste. 

NEW    year's    biscuits. 

Boil  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  lump  sugar,  upon  which  you  have 
rubbed  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  in  half  a  pint  of  milk ;  when  cold, 
rub  half  a  pound  of  1)utter  with  two  pounds  of  flour,  make  a  hole 
in  the  centre,  pour  in  the  milk,  with  as  much  carbonate  of  soda  as 
would  lie  upon  a  sixpence,  and  a  couple  of  eggs ;  mix  tlie  whole 
into  a  smooth  paste,  lay  it  out  upon  your  baking-sheet  in  what- 
ever flat  shapes  you  please,  and  bake  them  in  a  very  warm  oven. 
The  proper  way  to  shape  these  biscuits  is  by  wooden  blocks  hav- 
ing pineapples,  leaves,  and  other  devices  carved  on  them. 

CREAM    biscuit. 

Rub  one  pound  of  fresh  butter  into  one  pound  of  flour,  make  a 
Iiole  in  the  centre  into  which  put  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
upon  which  the  rind  of  a  lemon  was  rubbed  previously  to  pound- 
ing, and  three  eggs;  mix  the  eggs  well  with  sugar,  and  then  mix 
all  together,  forming  a  flexible  paste ;  cut  it  into  round  pieces  each 


SWEET    CAKES.  209 

nearly   as  large  as  a  walnut ;  stamp  them  flat  with  a  small  stamp, 
and  bake  them  in  a  slack  oven. 

APPLE  luscriT. 

Boil  apples  in  water  until  soft,  then  take  them  out  and  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve;  flavor  with  a  drop  or  two  of  essence  or  of 
of  lemon,  and,  if  you  like  the  taste,  a  drop  of  the  oil  of  cloves. 
Add  lump  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  tlie  p  ilp,  and  grind  it  with  it; 
roil  the  sugared  pulp  into  flat  cakes  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  them  into  shapes.  Finally  dry  them  in  a  very  slow 
oven,  the  heat  not  being  strong  enough  to  bake  them  or  melt  the 
sugar;  they  may  be  dried  also  by  the  suinmer's  sun.  They  oflen 
require  to  be  partially  dried  before  they  can  be  rolled  out.  They 
may,  instead  of  rolling,  be  dropped  on  to  paper,  or  put  in  a  ring 
of  paper  upon  a  slightly  greased  iron  plate. 


-^. 


ORANGE    BISCUITS. 


•  Grate  the  rind  from  five  oranges,  and  put  into  a  mortar  with 
'  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
pounded  lump  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  one  or  two  eggs,  and  mix  it 
well  together  with  the  pestle  until  it  is  very  light.  I)ro[)  the  mix- 
ture, when  ready,  in  small  lumps  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  on 
doubled  paper,  laid  on  a  baking  tin,  and  put  them  into  moderately 
hot  oven.  Do  not  drop  them  too  near  together  on  the  paper,  as 
they  spread  while  baking.  When  they  are  baked  take  them  out, 
and  take  them  off  the  paper  when  they  are  cold. 

MOSS     BISCUITS. 

Weigh  half  a  pound  of  flour,  to  which  add  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  butter  and  five  ounces  of  sugar,  rub  them  well  together,  and 
mix  with  one  whole  and  one  white  of  i^gg,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
milk;  then  add  two  ounces  of  ground  aluionds,  which  rub  well 
into  the  paste ;  afterwards  rub  the  whole  through  a  gauze  wire 
siev<i,  taking  it  off  in  small  pieces,  which  lay  upon  a  lightly  butter 
ed  baking  sheet,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGER    BISCUITS. 

One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  turned  to  a  creara, 


210  SWEET    CAKES. 

balf-a-pound  of  white  sni^ar  sifted.  These  to  be  well  mixed; 
then  add  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
with  two  ounees  of  powdered  ginger.  These  last  mix  gradually 
with  the  rest.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  it  into  biscuits ;  bake  them 
on  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

judge's  biscuits. 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  basin,  whisk  them  well  for  five  minutes ; 
put  in  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  whisk  again  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  some  cararway  seeds,  if  liked,  and  half  a  pound 
of  dry  sifted  flour,  mixing  all  thoroughly.  Drop  the  mixture  on 
paper,  each  being  the  size  of  about  a  silver  quarter  dollar  and 
high  in  the  middle.  Sift  sugar  over  them  and  bake  them.  Remove 
them  from  the  paper  while  they  are  hot.  A  wooden  spoon  is  the 
best  to  stir  with. 

king's   biscuits. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  basin  and  turn  it  about  well. 
Whisk  six  eggs  well,  add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  whisk 
another  ten  minutes,  and  then  mix  with  the  butter,  after  which 
stir  in  six  ounces  of  currants,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  dried 
flour.  After  mixing  these  all  well  together,  drop  the  mixture  on 
paper  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  taking  the  biscuits  oflf  the  paper 
while  hot. 

GRAHAM   FIG   BISCUIT. 

Wash  and  scahl  figs  and  mix  with  enough  Graham  flour  to  make 
a  good  dough  by  much  kneading;  roll  and  cut  into  biscuits  half  an 
inch  thick,  bake  quickly. 

MACAROONS. 

Scald  a  pound  of  almonds,  let  them  lie  awhile  in  cold  water, 
then  dry  them,  and  mash  them  together.  Moisten  them  in  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  prevent  them  turning  into  oil,  and  then  take 
an  equal  quantity  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Mix  the  whole  well  together,  shape  them  on  wafer-paper  and  bake 
on  thin  plates  in  a  mild  oven. 


SWEET    CAKES.  211 


COCOANUT   CAKES. 


Scrape  off  the  rind  and  grate  the  nut  quite  fine,  and  mix  it  with 
half  its  weight  of  finely  pounded  white  sugar,  and  the  white  of  an 
egg.  Drop  the  mixture  on  wafer  paper  in  rough  pieces,  the  size 
of  a  nutmec:,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven, 

ICIXG. 

To  ice  a  good  sized  cake,  put  eight  ounces  of  powdered  sugar 
into  a  mortar  with  four  spoons fuls  of  rose  water,  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beating  and  straining  it.  Then  whisk  it  well,  and  when 
the  cake  is  almost  cold  cover  it  with  the  iceing  evenly,  using  a 
feather  or  knife.  Put  it  in  the  oven  to  harden,  but  not  long  enough 
to  discolor  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  very  dry  place. 

CHOCOLATE    ICIXG. 

A  cup  of  milk,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  chocolate,  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Scald  the  milk 
and  chocolate,  then  add  the  sugar,  and  pour  it  on  the  well-beaten 
white  of  an  egg.  This  will  ice  a  good  sized  cake  or  pudd.ng.  An 
lilmond  iceing  is  given  in  the  receipt  for  a  bride  cake. 


PRESERVED  FRUITS  AND  SWEETMEATS. 


CA^^NING    FRUIT. 


This  new  method  recommends  itself,  not  only  on  account  of  it3 
health,  but  its  economy,  especially  since  the  price  of  sugar  has 
become  so  enormous  as  to  be  almost  prohibitory.  Properly  put  up 
in  the  right  kind  of  cans,  there  are  many  fruits  which  require  no 
sugar,  and  even  the  most  acid  only  a  very  little,  say,  one  fourth  of 
the  weight ;  it  should,  however,  be  of  the  finest  quality. 

blackbp:rries. 

Use  the  zinc-covered,  self-sealing  jars,  as  the  covers  of  these 
can  be  screwed  down  without  difficulty,  while  the  jars  are  in  the 
water,  and  we  have  never  known  fruit  to  spoil  in  them. 

Fill  the  jars  with  fruit  and  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  pound 
of  crushed  sugar  to  four  pounds  of  fruit.  Set  them  in  cold  water 
(a  wash  boiler  is  as  good  as  any  thing  for  the  purpose),  which  heat 
to  boilmg.  The  jars,  by  the  way,  should  not  be  filled  to  within  an 
inch  of  the  top,  and  when  the  boiling  process,  by  expelling  the  air, 
has  forced  the  fruit  up  to  the  top  of  the  jar,  it  is  exactly  the  time 
to  put  on  the  cover,  and  with  a  small  holder  in  the  left  hand,  to 
keep  the  fingers  from  being  burnt,  screw  it  tight  down,  before 
taking  the  jar  from  the  water. 

Cherries,  raspberries  and  plums,  may  be  preserved  in  precisely 
the  same  way ;  peaches  and  pears  also,  omitting  the  sugar,  which 
they  do  not  require,  as  they  keep  just  as  well  without. 

STRAWBERRY   JAM. 

Separate  the  hulls  from  the  berries,  for  each  pound  of  berriei 
weigh  out  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  pounded  sugar ;  put  tUo 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  213 

berries  in  a  deep  dish  sprinkling  the  sugar  among  it,  and  let  them 
remain  ten  or  twelve  hours,  then  boil  them  together  half  an  hour 
very  slowly. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

This  should  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  strawberry  jam. 
Let  it  boil,  after  it  commences  to  do  so,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ; 
another  way  is  to  bruise  together  a  quart  of  raspberries,  and  a 
pint  of  currant  jelly  ;  boil  them  slowly  six  or  seven  minutes,  stirring 
them  ;  then  put  into  close  pots.     This  will  keep  two  years. 

STRAWBERRIES   IN   CAXS. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  berries ;  scald  them 
together,  fill  the  cans  while  hot,  and  seal  at  once. 

DRIED   STRAWBERRIES 

Put  ten  pounds  of  strawberries  into  a  jar.  and  sprinkle  among 
them  four  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Let  them  stand  until  the  next 
day,  then  scald  them  and  put  them  back  into  the  jar.  On  the  third 
day,  put  another  pound  of  sugar  over  them  and  scald  them  again, 
pour  out  on  plates,  or  dishes,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven,  or  the 
back  part  of  the  range.  They  must  be  kept  in  tin  canisters,  and 
will  make  a  very  good  dessert  dish  in  whiter. 

STRAWBERRY   JAM. 

Boil  the  strawberries  gently  until  thick,  and  very  much  reduced.* 
add  loaf  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and 
stir  constantly,  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  paste.  Put  in  small  jars, 
and  cover  with  egg  paper — that  is  paper  covered  on  the  under 
side  with  white  of  eggy — and  tie  down  a  second  paper  over  them. 

PRESERVED    RASPBERRIES. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  red,  but  not  too  ripe  raspberries , 
pick  and  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan,  with  an  equal  weight  of 
clarified  sugar ;  when  they  have  boiled  up  about  a  dozen  times, 
skim  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  pan,  till  the  next  day  ;  then  drain  the 
fruit  and  put  it  into  jars ;  put  to  the  syrup  about  two  glasses  of 
cherry  juice,  previousjy  strained ;  boil  the  sugar  again,  and  pour  it 


214  PRESERVED    FRUITS. 

over  the  raspberries ;  add  afterwards  about  a  spoonful  of  currant 
juice  to  each  pot,  and  when  cold,  lay  on  brandy  paper,  and  tie 
them  down. 

CURRANT   AND   RASPBERRIES    SWEETMEAT. 

\  Take  equal  weight  of  red  currants  and  raspberries,  and  of 
sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  best  loaf,  to  each  pound  of 
fruit.  Cover  the  fruit  with  the  sugar  over  night,  and  the  next  day 
boil  all  together  slowly  for  an  hour,  skimming  if  necessary.  Put  in 
small  jars,  and  fasten  down  while  hot,  with  egg,  or  brandy  paper. 
It  will  keep  well,  and  makes  a  delicious  sweetmeat. 

CHERRY   JAM. 

Stone  four  pounds  of  Kentish  cherries,  add  to  them  half  a  pint 
red  currant  juice  and  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  and  boil  all  together 
briskly  till  the  mixture  becomes  stiff. 

GREEN    GRAPE    JAM. 

Put  the  grapes  in  a  jar,  and  let  them  cook  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  until  they  are   soft,  and  can  be  separated   from  the  seeds. 
Strain  through  a  fine  colander,  and  to  every  pound  of  grape,  put  a. 
pound  of  crushed  sugar.     Boil  all  together  very  gently,  until  a  thick 
jam  is  formed,  and  then  put  in  small  moulds,  or  glasses,  and  cover 


PLUM   JAM. 

Prepare  the  plums  by  skinning  and  stoning  them,  allow  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  finely  pounded  loaf  sugar  to  one  pound  of 
fruit ;  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  over  night  with  the  sugar  sprinkled 
among  them,  and  in  the  morning  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes, 
after  they  have  become  sufl[iciently  hot  to  bubble  over  their  whoio 
suiface. 

PINEAPPLE   JAM. 

/  Cut  tlie  pineapple  into  small  slices  and  then  into  square  pieces, 
removing  all  the  skin  and  eyes.  Allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pound  of  pineapple,  and  boil  them  very  slowly 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  215 


BLACK    CURRANT   JAM. 

Boil  together  for  quarter  of  an  hour  after  it  commences  to  bub- 
ble, stirring  well  a  mixture  composed  of  a  pint  of  juice  of  red  cur- 
rants, and  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  to  each 
pound  of  currants. 

-     PRESERVED    CHERRIES. 

Stone  the  fruit,  weigh  it,  and  for  every  pound,  take  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  First  dissolve  the  sugar  in  water, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar. 
Then  add  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  as  fast  as  possible  for  half  an 
hour,  till  it  begins  to  jelly,  as  it  soon  thickens  by  keeping.  Put  it 
in  pots,  cover  with  brandy  paper  next  the  fruit,  and  then  closely 
from  the  air. 

PICKLED    CHERRIES. 

Procure  white  **  ox-heart"  cherries,  leave  the  stems  on,  and 
prepare  for  eight  pounds  of  fruit,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts 
very  best  vinegar,  a  little  cloves  and  double  the  bulk  in  cinnamon, 
mace  and  ginger  root.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  skim- 
\ning  thoroughly.  Put  the  fruit  in  bottles,  strain  the  syrup  over 
it,  screw  them  down,  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  for 
ten  minutes.     When  they  look  like  cracking  they  are  done. 

PINE    APPLE   MARMALADE. 

Boil  together  for  each  pound  of  grated  pineapple  a  pound  of 
double  refined  loaf  sugar.  When  it  is  boiled  thick,  which  will  be 
in  about  fifteen  minutes,  if  the  quantity  is  small,  or  more  if  large, 
put  it  in  tumblers,  and  paste  over  them  papers  wet  with  the  beatea 
whites  of  eggs.     Keep  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

PRESERVED    QUINCES. 

Pfcl  and  core  them,  put  in  the  kettle,  and  cover  them  with  the 
parings,  cores,  and  considerable  water.  Cover  close  and  boil  till 
tender;  then  take  out  the  quinces,  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  to 
every  pint  add  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  it  a  few  minutes, 
skim,  put  in  the  quinces,  and  bcil  slowly  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
they  are  clear. 


216  PRESERVED    FRUITS. 


CRAB    APPLES    PRESERVED. 

Weigh  the  a})ples,  and  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  make  a 
fvriip  with  apple  jelly,  and  after  this  is  well  boiled,  prick  the  crab- 
apples  and  put  them  into  it.  When  they  have  boiled  a  few  min- 
utes take  th^^m  out,  and  let  them  drain  on  a  sieve.  Put  them 
again  into  the?  syrnp,  when  they  are  nearly  cold,  and  after  boiling 
a  few  minutes  more,  drain  them  as  before.  Repeat  this  process  a 
ihird  time,  and  afterwards  place  them  in  glasses  or  jars,  pouri)ig 
the  boiling  jelly  over  them. 

BRANDY    GAGES. 

Take  green  gages,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry,  prick  them  on  opposite 
sides  and  pack  them  in  bottles  or  jars,  with  mouths  large  enough 
to  let  the  fruit  in  without  pressing.  Prepare  a  very  rich  syrup, 
let  it  cool  to  blood  heat,  mix  in  the  proportion  of  one  third  syrup 
to  two  of  brandy,  mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  bottles,  cork,  and  seal 
perfectly  air  tight.  If  syrup  is  left,  bottle  it  for  future  use.  If 
the  skins  are  tough  remove  them. 

PRESEIIV^ED    PINEAPPLES. 

Peel  the  pineapples,  cut  out  the  eyes,  slice  them  and  cut  out  the 
hard  centre.  Then  boil  them  till  tender;  skim  the  liquid  and  add 
to  it  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  pine  apple. 
Boil  it,  skim  it  again  and  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  till  clear  of 
soft,  or  put  in  lemons  and  one  pound  of  sugar. 

GREEN   FIGS    PRESERVED. 

Take  half  ripe  figs,  and  prick  them  near  the  stalk,  scald  them  and 
when  half  cold  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  let  them  drain. 
P>oil  clarified  sugar  in  a  covered  preserving  pan,  put  In  the  figs,  let 
them  boil  three  or  four  times ;  then  take  them  from  the  fire,  skim 
them  well  and  put  them  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  up  a  dozen  times,  and  when  luke- 
warm pour  it  on  the  figs.  Let  it  stand  till  the  next  day,  drain  it 
off  and  boil  it  up  again,  then  add  the  figs  to  it,  boil  them  together 
once  in  the  covered  preserving  pan,  skim  again,  and  put  in  jars 
for  use. 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  217 


TO  PRESERVE  PLUMS   OR   DAMSONS  WHOLE. 

Weigh  your  fruit,  and  to  every  pound  allow  three  quarters  of 
crushed  sugar.  Put  into  stone  jars  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and 
sugar,  tie  down  with  cloth,  and  let  them  stand  in  an  oven  after 
bread  has  been  baked  in  it,  until  it  is  cold.  The  next  day  strain 
off  the  syrup,  boil  and  clarify  it,  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  which  in 
the  mean  time  has  been  carefully  removed  to  glass  jars  or  china 
pots.  Place  over  them  egg  tissue-paper,  and  over  that  thick  white 
paper  pasted,  or  l)lad(ler  tied  strongly  down. 

Another  method  is  to  put  the  plums  into  water  over  a  slow  fire 
until  they  begin  to  peel,  keeping  them  under  the  water,  then  take 
the  skins  off  carefully  and  put  them  into  a  jar  with  enough  thin 
syrup  to  cover  them  completely.  Boil  the  syrup  next  day,  put  the 
plums  in,  boil  gently,  allow  them  to  stand  till  cold ;  repeat  the  pro- 
cess, turning  them  in  the  syru[)  till  nearly  cold.  Take  the  plums 
out,  strain  the  syrup,  add  more  sugar,  skim  it,  put  the  plums  in 
again  and  boil  them  till  they  become  quite  clear,  then  put  them  in 
jars  and  tie  them  down  with  paper. 

CURRANTS   PRESERVED. 

Scald  a  few  of  the  currants  at  a  time  until  all  are  done,  put  su- 
gar into  the  juice  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  currants,  and  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  put  the  currants  back 
into  the  syrup,  and  boil  them  up  once. 

RHUBARB    PRESERVED. 

Pare  half  a  dozen  oranges,  remove  the  seeds  and  white  rind, 
slice  the  pulp  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  peel  cut  very  small.  Then 
add  a  quart  of  rhubarb  cut  fine,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf 
sugar ;  boil  the  whole  down  as  for  other  preserves.  This  is  almost 
equal  to  Scotch  marmalade. 

ORANGES    PRESERVED. 

To  preserve  oranges  whole,  grate  the  rinds  slightly,  and  score 

them  round  with  a  knife,  or  cut  the  rinds  into  scollops  or  any  other 

pattern,  not  cutting  deep ;   then  put  them  into  cold  water  for  three 

days,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times  a  day ;  afterwards  tip 

10 


218  PRESERVED    FRUITS. 

them  up  in  a  bag,  and  boll  them  in  water  until  a  pln''s  head  will 
penetrate  their  skins  easily.  Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  white 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  oranges,  and  while  they  are  boiling,  put 
the  sugar  on  the  fire  with  rather  more  than  half  a  pint  of  water 
to  each  pound.  Let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  strain  it 
through  nuaslin.  Then  put  the  oranges  into  the  syrup,  and  boil 
antil  the  syrup  will  jelly  and  is  of  a  nice  yellow  color;  it  cannot 
be  too  stiff.  The  syrup  need  not  cover  the  oranges,  but  they  mu3t 
be  turned  so  that  each  part  gets  thoroughly  done. 

PICKLING    PEARS   AND    PEACHES. 

This  is  a  very  nice  way  of  preserving  these  fruits,  particularly 
for  those  who  like  such  a  relish  with  cold  meats.  Select  smooth 
freestone  peaches,  and  medium  sized  juicy  pears,  and  stick  them 
full  of  cloves,  that  is  to  say,  like  pins  upon  a  pincushion,  heads  up; 
and  perhaps  half  an  inch  apart.  Boil  together,  either  the  syrup 
left  from  dried  fruit,  and  vinegar,  in  the  proportions  mentioned  in 
the  receipt  for  drying  plums  and  small  Iruit,  or  seven  pounds  of 
good  Orleans  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  good  vinegar,  an  ounce  of 
mace,  and  an  ounce  of  allspice.  When  it  boils,  put  in  the  fruit, 
and  let  it  all  boil  gently  together,  until  a  pin  will  slip  in  and  out 
easily.  Then  take  the  fruit  out  in  jars,  boil  the  spiced  and  sweet- 
ened vinegar  for  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  then  pour  over  fruit 
and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  fasten  thick  paper  over  the 
lids  with  paste  or  mucilage. 

DAMSON  PLUMS,  {To  picEe.) 

To  two  pounds  of  plums,  take  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  vinegar,  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  one  of  cinnamon ;  boil 
them  well,  and  pour  it  on  the  fruit  hot ;  when  cold,  drain  it  off, 
boil  it  and  pour  it  on  again,  repeating  it  six  times. 

PEACHES   DRIED   WITH   SUGAR. 

Peel  yellow  peaches,  cut  them  from  the  stone  in  one  piece,  allow 
two  pounds  of  sugar  for  six  pounds  of  the  fruit,  make  a  syrup  of 
three  quarters  pound  of  sugar  and  a  little  water,  put  in  the  peaches 
and  let  them  stay  till  they  are  quite  clear,  take  them  up  carefully 
on  a  dish  and  set  them  in  the  sun  to  dry.     Strew  powdered  sugar 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  219 

over  them  on  all  sides,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  If  any  syrup  is  left  re- 
move them  to  fresh  dishes.  When  they  are  quite  dry  lay  them 
lightly  in  a  jar  with  a  little  sugar  between  each  layer. 

TO    DRY   PLUMS    AND    SMALL   FRUITS. 

A  very  good  method  Is  to  pit  them,  and  put  in  jars,  a  layer  of 
fruit  to  a  layer  of  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  and  then 
boil  them,  taking  the  scum  off,  as  It  rises  to  the  surface.  When 
they  have  boiled  ten  minutes,  take  them  out  of  the  syrup,  drain 
them,  and  spread  them  thin  on  dishes,  or  hair  sieves,  to  dry  in  the 
sun;  they  will  need  turning  every  few  hours,  until  dry. 

The  syrup  that  is  left  can  be  used,  in  the  proportion  of  a  large 
pint  to  a  small  quart  of  good  vinegar,  for  pickling  pears  or  peach- 
es,— the  method  for  doing  which  is  explained  in  the  receipt  under 
that  head. 

Another  method  for  drying  plums,  peaches  and  apples,  is  to 
prepare  them  nicely,  by  pitting  or  peeling  and  cutting,  dry  them 
partly,  and  then  lay  them  in  jars,  strewing  sugar  between  each  lay- 
er. Tie  them  down,  and  they  will  keep  well,  and  be  delicious  for 
pies,  or  stewing. 

Some  people  are  troubled  with  insects  among  fruit,  when  it  is 
kept  a  long  time.  A  handful  of  sassafras  bark  thrown  among  it 
will  keep  it  free  from  worms. 

PRESERVED   CITRON. 

Pare  ripe  citron  melons,  and  cut  them  into  half-moon  shaped 
pieces,  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness.  Boil  in  soda  water  until 
tender,  when  a  straw  will  pass  through  them ;  skim  them  out  and 
lay  them  in  weak  alum  water ;  let  them  remain  three  hours ;  then 
put  them  in  cold  water  for  another  hour.  Then  take  on^  quart 
of  water,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and  the  same  weight  of  citron ; 
boil  this  syrup  and  remove  the  scum  ;  when  clear  put  in  the  citron^ 
let  it  remain  till  the  sugar  has  penetrated  it  thoroughly ;  then  pack 
it  in  jars.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  ropy,  and  pour  it  in  the  jars. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  ginger.  Add  to  each  quart  jar  a  table* 
spoonful  of  extract  of  lemon  peel,  and  seal  them  as  soon  as  filled, 
with  paper  wet  in  egg 


220  PRESERVED    FRUITS. 


APPLE    SWEETMEATS. 


Procure  fresh  gathered  ripe  apples,  of  a  fine  sort ;  peel  them, 
take  out  the  cores,  and  cut  them  in  quarters ;  place  them  in  a  pre* 
serving  pan  with  a  glass  of  water,  a  little  lemon  or  orange  peel, 
and  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fruit.  Let  it  boil 
thoroughly,  and  then  put  it  into  preserve  pots. 

APPLE    PRESERVE. 

Peel  and  weigh  ten  pounds  of  apples  ;  stew  them  in  a  pan,  with 
one  pint  of  water ;  when  they  are  quite  tender  put  in  eight  pounds 
of  pounded  suger,  two  ounces  of  ground  ginger,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  four  or  five  lemons  ;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour  or  more, 
stirring  it  all  the  time,  then  put  it  in  small  jars  or  moulds. 

APPLE   BUTTER. 

Take  ten  gallons  of  new  sweet  cider,  before  it  has  fermented ; 
put  it  into  a  brass  kettle ;  if  the  kettle  will  not  hold  all  of  the  ci- 
der, put  in  a  part,  and  set  it  a-boiling ;  skim  it,  and  as  it  boils 
away  keep  adding,  until  you  have  put  in  all  the  cider ;  boil  down 
to  about  five  gallons.  For  the  ten  gallons  of  cider,  take  half  a 
bushel  of  quarters  of  apples ;  part  quince  gives  it  a  fine  flavor. 
Now  wash  and  drain  the  apples,  put  them  into  the  boiled  cider, 
and  when  they  are  soft,  it  must  be  stirred  constantly  until  finished. 
It  requires  a  stick  formed  in  such  a  way  as  to  keep  moving  on  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle,  to  prevent  the  apple  from  sticking  and  burn- 
ing. Have  a  slow  fire,  and  attend  carefully  to  the  stirring  at  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle.  If  for  winter  use,  from  one  to  two  hours' 
boiling,  after  the  apples  first  begin  to  boil,  is  sufficient ;  or  a  long- 
er time  if  thought  proper.  Before  taking  it  from  the  fire,  season 
with  spice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  to  suit  the  taste.  Remove  the 
kettle  from  the  fire,  dip  the  apple  butter  while  hot  into  well  glazed 
crocks,  or  stone  jars ;  then  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  cut  pa- 
per covers  for  each  crock ;  soak  it  in  apple-jack,  lay  it  inside  of 
the  vessel,  on  the  apple  butter,  and  cover  it  close.  A  barrel  of 
cider  may  be  boiled  down  to  about  ten  gallons,  observing  the  same 
proportions  as  given  above. 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  221 


TO   PREVENT   WASTE    IN   APPLES. 

An  excellent  way  to  prevent  waste  In  apples,  is  to  pick  out  all 
that  are  beginning  to  speck,  peel,  cut  up  and  stew  as  for  sauce, 
and  fill  into  air-tight  cans.  As  canned  fruit  Is  used  through  the 
fall  and  winter,  the  cans  can  be  re-filled  in  this  way  with  apples, 
and  in  that  way  they  will  be  preserved  for  pies  or  sauce  till  summer. 

PRESERVED    PIPPINS. 

Pippins  and  bell-flowers  make  a  delicious  preserve.  Take  half 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  make  a  syrup  in  which 
boil  the  fruit  till  clear,  take  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup  till 
thick  ;  add  extract  of  lemon  to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  to 
prevent  the  necessity  of  long  boiling,  which  injures  the  taste  and 
looks  of  preserves  ;  they  can  be  put  while  boiling  into  tin  cans  and 
sealed. 

PRESERVED   CUCUMBERS. 

Split  the  cucumbers  and  extract  the  seeds.  Let  them  remain 
for  three  days  In  salt  and  water.  Put  them  now  into  cold  water, 
with  a  small  quantity  of  alum,  and  boil  them  till  tender.  Drain 
them  and  allow  them  to  lie  in  a  thin  syrup  for  two  days  ;  then  take 
them  out,  boilmg  the  syrup  again,  and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers, 
repeating  this  operation  twice  more.  Now  boil  some  clarified  su- 
gar until,  when  a  spoonful  of  it  is  taken  up  and  blown  through,, 
small  sparks  of  sugar  will  fly  from  It ;  put  the  cucumbers  into  thlg 
and  let  them  simmer  five  minutes.  Leave  them  until  the  next  day, 
when  the  whole  must  be  boiled  up  again,  and  afterwards  put  by 
for  use. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  PRESERVED. 

Soak  the  vegetable  marrow  twelve  hours  In  salt  and  water,  then 
pare  it,  remove  the  seeds  and  soft  part,  cut  It  into  small,  thick, 
square  pieces.  Boil  it  in  water  until  tender,  put  in  a  little  prepared 
cochineal  to  color  it;  then  strain  It.  Make  a  syrup  of  powdered 
sugar,  boil  in  it  two  sliced  lemons  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
whole  ginger ;  when  cold,  put  in  the  vegetable  marrow  and  let  il 
stand  two  days.     Pour  off  the  syrup,  add  more  sugar  to  it,  boil  it 


222  PRESERVED    FRUITS. 

again  and  add  it  to  the  vegetable  marrow  ;  remove  the  vegetable 
marrow,  boil  it  up  several  times  till  the  syrup  is  strong  and  trans- 
parent, and  the  last  time  you  do  so  boil  the  vegetable  marrow  in 
the  syrup.  An  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  vegetable  marrow  ia 
used  in  making  the  syrup. 

TOMATO   FIGS. 

/  Take  pear  shaped,  or  small  single  tomatoes,  scald  and  skin  thera, 
then  to  half  a  peck  or  eight  pounds  of  them,  take  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Cook  them  with  sugar  over  a  fire  without  water, 
until  the  sugar  penetrates  and  they  are  clarified.  Take  them  out, 
spread  on  dishes,  flatten  them  and  dry  in  the- sun.  Sprinkle  on  a 
little  syrup  while  drying,  after  which  pack  dow^n  in  boxes  treating 
each  layer  with  powdered  sugar ;  the  syrup  that  is  left  can  be  boil- 
ed down  and  bottled  for  use.  They  will  keep  from  year  to  year, 
retaining  their  flavor,  which  is  nearly  like  that  of  fresh  figs. 

PRESERVED   ARTICHOKES. 

Cook  them  half  done,  then  separate  the  leaves  from  the  fur  and 
preserve  the  fleshy  part  called  *'the  bottom,"  and  turn  them  still 
■warm  into  cold  water  to  make  them  firm.  Afterwards  put  them  in- 
to the  oven  four  different  times,  when  they  will  become  thin,  hard 
and  transparent.     They  may  be  eaten  raw  with  salad  sauce. 

CANDIED    ORANGE   PEEL   RINGS. 

Cut  some  Seville  oranges  in  half,  remove  the  pulp,  and  let  the 
peel  soak  for  three  days  in  strong  salt  and  spring  water.  This 
must  be  repeated  three  times,  after  which  the  peel  sliould  be  plac- 
ed on  a  sieve  to  dry.  Put  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  one  quart 
of  water,  boil  it,  and  skim  it  until  quite  clear.  Double  the  orange 
peel,  and  cut  it  across  in  narrow  strips  which,  when  opened,  will, 
of  course,  form  rings.  Let  these  simmer  in  the  sugar  until  quite 
transparent,  and  then  dry  them  before  the  fire.  Make  a  syrup  of 
the  best  loaf  sugar  usmg  only  enough  water  to  dissolve  it;  and 
while  it  is  boiling  put  in  the  rings,  stirring  continually  until  the 
sugar  is  candied  round  them,  then  put  them  to  dry  before  the  fire 
or  in  a  cool  oven. 


PRESERVED    FRUITS.  223 


PREPARING   CITRON   FOR    CAKE. 


Boil  the  citron  in  soda  water  until  it  is  clear  or  tender,  have 
ready  a  nice  syrup  of  sugar ;  put  in  the  citron,  and  boil  until  the 
sugar  has  struck  through  it ;  take  it  out  on  plates  to  dry  slowly, 
sprinkle  pulverized  sugar  on  both  sides,  two  or  three  tiraes  until  it 
is  dried  enough.  Then  pack  it  in  wooden  boxes,  with  sugar  be- 
tween the  layers.     It  is  nearly  as  nice  as  bought  citron. 

FRIED   PUMPKIN. 

Select  the  ripest  and  largest.  Peel  and  stew  them  dry,  then 
spread  out  on  plates  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven  until  all  the  moisture 
is  extracted.  It  will  then  be  a  dry,  hard,  thin  layer,  which  may 
be  packed  away  in  tin  cans,  or  boxes,  in  a  dry  place  until  re- 
quired for  use.  Be  careful  to  dry,  and  not  to  cook  or  bake  it  while 
in  the  oven.  When  required  for  use,  soak  it  over  night  in  sweet 
milk. 

TOMATO    SWEETMEATS. 

J  Scald  and  remove  the  skin,  slice  them  thinly  and  stew  them  in 
sugar  like  other  preserves,  using  the  best  kind  of  sugar, —  three 
quarters  of  a  pound,  for  a  pound  of  tomatoes. 


JELLIES.     HOW  TO  MAKE  THEM. 


APPLE  JELLY. 

Take  one  dozen  of  the  largest  apples,  pare  and  slice  them  into 
three  quarts  and  one  pint  of  water.  Put  them  into  a  tin  pan,  and 
boil  thorn  until  they  become  a  pulp  and  one  half  of  the  water  ia 
consumed.  Pour  it  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  after  it  has  done  running, 
press  what  juice  you  can  from  the  bag.  To  every  pint  of  juice 
add  one  pound  of  white  sugar ;  set  the  juice  and  sugar  on  the  fire 
and  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes  skimming  it  all  the  time.  Add 
lemon  juice  and  peel  to  taste.  Pour  it  into  tea-cups  or  jelly-glasses 
at  hand,  and  turn  it  out  entire.  The  above  quantity  ot  apples  will 
make  about  three  pints  of  juice.  Remember,  after  you  have 
pared  one  apple,  slice  it  immediately  into  the  water,  and  do  not 
pare  them  all  together;  moreover,  let  them  lie,  or  it  will  render 
them  red,  and  you  will  lose  a  great  quantity  of  the  a[)ple  juice. 
Golden  pippin  apples  make  the  finest  jelly.  It  is  necessary  to  be 
very  careful  about  over-boiling  all  fruit  jellies,  else  they  soon 
spoil ;  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  after  the  sugar  has  been  added  is 
generally  suflScient.  It  is  also  important  to  put  jellies  and  jams 
into  the  moulds  or  jars,  the  moment  they  are  taken  from  the  fire. 

Another  method  from  the  French  is  as  follows : — Choose  fine- 
flavored,  jucy,  ripe  apples,  peel  them,  and  cut  them  into  quarters, 
putting  them  into  water  as  they  are  cut,  to  prevent  their  turning 
black.  When  they  are  all  cut,  place  them  in  the  preserving-pan 
and  put  to  them  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Let  them  cook 
until  they  are  quite  soft;  take  them  out  of  the  ])reserving-pan, 
place  them  in  a  seive,  and  let  the  juice  drain  from  them.  Boil  the 
juice  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  until  it  will  jelly,  (when  test- 
ed by  placing  a  little  on  a  cold  plate,)  and  pour  it  into  the  jelly 


JELLIES.  225 

jars.  Quince  jelly  maybe  made  in  the  same  manner.  If  it  is 
desired  to  have  the  apple  jelly  of  a  full  pink  tinge,  let  a  ittle 
cochineal  be  put  into  it,  and  that  will  give  it  color. 

MRS.  Webster's  wine  jelly. 

Take  of  Cooper's  gelatine  four  ounces ;  dissolve  it  in  three 
qi  arts  of  hot  water;  add  one  half  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  the 
juice  or  two,  and  the  peel  of  one  lemon,  one  and  one  half  pounds 
of  pure  white  sugar ;  let  it  all  come  to  a  boil  slowly,  then  add  a 
gill  of  Maderia  wine  and  let  it  simmer  a  while  longer;  then  strani 
it  twice  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  set  it  to  cool ;  the  extract  of  saf- 
fron colors  it  beautifully. 

CRAB  APPLE   JELLY. 

'  Fill  your  preserving  kettle  with  apples ;  then  cover  with  water. 
Boil  until  they  are  very  soft.  Drain  the  water  oif  through  a  cloth, 
and  add  to  each  pint  of  the  water,  one  pound  of  white  sugar. 
Let  the  water  come  to  a  boil,  before  adding  the  sugar.  Then  boil 
five  minutes.  Turn  off  into  glasses,  or  small  jars,  and  when  cold 
cover  with  thick  paper. 

cider  jelly. 

/  Boil  new  cider  to  the  consistency  of  syrup,  adding  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  cider.  Skim  it.  Let  it  cool,  and  it  will 
be  a  beautiful  clear  jelly,  very  nice  to  make  drink  for  the  sick  or 
well. 

CURRANT   JELLY. 

f  Fill  a  jar  with  currants,  and  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
When  the  juice  is  expelled,  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every 
pint  add  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Boil  ten  minutes,  skimming  till 
it  is  quite  clear.  Black  currant  or  grape  jelly  can  be  made  in  the 
same  way. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

If  quinces  are  high  a  jelly  may  be  made  of  the  peels  and  cores, 
but  if  the  fruit  is  plenty,  boil  the  whole.  Allow  one  quart  of 
water  to  ten  pounds  of  quince.     Cover  the  fruit  and  boil  until  ten 


9  9r 


JELLIES. 


der ;  then  pour  them  into  a  jelly  bag  without  pressing,  and  let 
them  drain  into  an  earthen  dish,  no  matter  if  until  the  next  morn- 
ing. Allow  a  pound  of  the  best  white  sugar  for  every  pint  of 
juice.  Place  the  syrup  on  the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle ;  as  soon 
as  it  ocLomes  hot,  stir  in  the  sugar,  boil  a  few  moments  ;  and  put 
it  in  moulds. 

BLACKBERRY     JELLY. 

Boil  th".  TL>%.rry  a  few  moments,  then  strain  it  and  add  one  pound 
of  sugar  to  o\te  quart  of  juice.     Boil  it  till  it  becomes  a  jelly. 

WINE    JELLY. 

To  one  pint  uf  wine  add  one  ounce  of  isinglass,  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  spice  to  your  taste. 

RICE    JELLY. 

Take  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf 
S'agar,  boil  them  in  a  quart  of  water ;  when  they  become  a  glutin- 
ous mass  strain  otF  the  jelly,  add  wine  or  lemon  juice  and  let  it 
cool. 

TAPIOCA   JELLY. 

Take  four  table-spoonsful  of  tapioca,  rinse  it  thoroughly,  then 
soak  it  five  hours  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Set  a  pint  of 
cold  water  on  the  fire,  when  it  boils,  mash  and  stir  up  the  tapioca 
that  is  in  the  water,  and  mix  it  with  the  boihng  water.  Let  the 
whole  simmer  gently,  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  or  mace.  When 
thick  and  clear,  mix  two  table-spoonsful  of  white  sugar  with  half 
a  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine — stir  it 
into  the  jelly ;  if  not  sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar,  and  turn  the 
jelly  into  cups. 

JELLY    FROM   GELATINE. 

To  make  two  quarts,  take  a  two  ounce  package  of  the  gelatine 
and  soak  for  one  hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water;  add  to  this  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  some  orange 
peel,  stick  cinnamon  or  other  flavoring ;  when  the  gelatine  is  thor- 
oughly soaked,  pour  on  three  pints  of  boihng  water  and  strain  im- 


JELLIES.  227 

mediately  through  a  jelly  bag  or  coarse  toweling ;  next  pour  into 
moulds  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  in  warm  weather  use  a  little  more 
gelatine. 

CRANBERRY  JELT-Y. 

This  Is  made  hke  currant  jelly,  but  it  is  hardly  worth  while  to 
make  it  to  keep,  when  it  is  so  easily  made  fresh  all  through  the 
winter. 

SAGO   JELLY. 

A  tea-cupful  of  sago,  boiled  In  three  pints  and  a  half  of  water 
till  ready.  When  cold,  add  half  a  pint  of  raspberry  syrup.  Pour 
it  into  a  shape  which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand 
until  it  is  sufficiently  set  to  turn  out  well.  When  dished,  pour  a 
little  cream  round  it,  if  preferred. 

MEDLAR   JELLY. 

Take  medlars  when  they  are  ripe  (I.  e.  when  eatable)  and  put 
them  into  a  preserving  pan  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them  ;  simmer  slowly  until  they  become  a  pulp,  then  strain  through 
a  thin  jelly  bag,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  a  qurrter  of  a 
pound  lump  sugar.  Boil  for  an  hour  and  pour  into  jars ;  when 
cold  It  will  be  a  stiff  jelly.  Medlar  jelly  made  from  this  recipe, 
in  some  degree  resembles  Guava  jelly.  It  makes  a  very  good  ad- 
dition to  a  winter  dessert. 

calf's   FEET  JELLY. 

Take  well  cleaned  calf's  feet,  put  one  quart  of  water  to  four  calf's 
feet,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  one  quart ;  then  strain,  and  when 
cold,  take  off  the  top.  In  taking  out  the  jelly,  avoid  the  settlings. 
To  the  quart,  put  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
and  clarify  this  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  boil  all  together  a  few 
moments  and  strain  it  through  a  cloth. 

GRAPE   JELLY. 

Take  garden  grapes  before  they  are  fully  ripe,  pick  them,  and 
boil  gently  with  a  little  water,  or  small  cupful,  until  the  piece  flows 
freely,  and  the  pulp  Is  dissolved.     Strain  throgh  a  thin  Swiss  mus- 


228  JELLIES. 

lin  bag,  pressing  tlie  pulp  ihrougli,  and  boil  again  for  fifteen  min- 
utes before  adding  the  sugar,  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  to  every  pint 
Boil  with  the  sugar  fifteen  minutes  longer,  taking  off  any  skuni  that 
may  rise.  Put  in  moulds  or  glasses,  and  cover  with  egg  paper. 
Wild  grapes  will  make  jelly,  but  not  so  lirm  as  the  cultivated  ones. 


FRESH  FRUITS. 


STRAWBERRIES   AND   CREAM. 

Pick  your  strawberries  over  carefully ;  if  they  are  dusty,  wash 
them,  by  pouring  water  over  them  through  a  colander.  Arrange 
them  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkhng  a  thick  layer  of  powdered  sugar 
over  them  when  it  is  half  full,  and  another  on  the  top  ;  sugar  them 
only  a  few  minutes  before  they  are  to  be  eaten,  and  cover  with 
cream  or  condensed  milk,  partially  diluted,  when  serving.  [See 
page  186,  187.] 

PEACHES. 

Peel  fine  juicy  rareripe  peaches,  cut  them  up,  cover  thickly  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  with  cream,  or  without. 

HUCKLEBERRIES. 

Some  people  like  these  without  sugar,  the  best  way  therefore  is 
to  pick  them  carefully,  and  put  them  on  the  table  in  a  glass  dish, 
flanked  by  a  bowl  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  pitcher  of  milk,  and 
let  exary  one  suit  his  or  her  taste.  They  are  delicious  eaten  in  a 
bowl  with  bread  and  milk,  and  in  this  way,  constitute  an  excellent 
summer  morning,  or  mid-day  meal. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

These  are  best  without  milk,  and  may  be  sugared  either  before 
or  after  putting  on  the  table.  Plenty  of  white  powdered  sugar  is 
necessary,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  dropped  upon  the  sugar  is  an 
improvement. 

WHITE   AND   RED   CURRANTS. 

Pick  them  large,  and  fresh  from  the  stems,  and  put  them  either 
together,  or  separate  into  glass  dishes  ;  cover  then  thickly  with  white 


230  '  FRESH    FRUIT. 

pondered  sugar  an  hour  before  they  are  wanted,  and  serve  with 
sugar  in  a  glass  bowl.  Mixed  white  and  red  eurrants  make  a  very 
pr»jtty  dish,  and  with  plenty  of  sugar  are  delicious  to  eat  with 
custard. 

CURRANTS    AND   HUCKLEBERRIES. 

Red  currants,  and  huckleberries  mixed,  make  a  delightful  and 
refreshing  dish,  the  sugar  should  be  sprinkled  through  them  half 
an  hour  before  they  are  eaten,  served  with  milk,  or  cream.  An 
excellent  breakfast  dish  ;  the  currants  just  imparting  to  the  huckle- 
berries the  piquant  taste  that  they  lack. 

CURRANTS   AND   RASPBERRIES. 

These  are  excellent  mixed,  and  eaten  in  the  same  way,  much 
finer  to  our  taste  than  raspberries  alone,  although  in  the  absence 
of  currants,  no  one  would  object  to  raspberries,  which  are  the 
most  delicate  of  all  fruit,  and  are  served  precisely  like  strawber- 
ries. 

CHERRIES. 

These  are  less  desirable  than  other  small  fruit,  uncooked^  an**!  ar« 
liable  to  be  infected  with  worms.  White  hearts,  fine  and  smooth, 
pitted,  or  only  sprinkled  whole,  with  powdered  sugar,  are  however, 
very  uice. 


YEAST,  BREAD,  BISCUITS,  Etc. 


YEAST. 

Takrt  twelve  large  potatoes,  pare  and  grate  them;  have  two 
single  nandsful  of -hops  boiled  in  one  quart  of  water;  strain  upon 
the  potatoes ;  set  the  pan  on  the  stove,  and  stir  till  it  scalds ;  take 
off,  ancr  add  one  table-spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  ginger ;  when  cool,  add  half  a  pint  of  good  brewer's  yeast  if  it 
can  be  got,  if  not,  take  hop  or  cake  yeast  to  start  with,  the  flour 
will  soon  work  out.  This  is  always  ready,  does  not  sour  quickly, 
and  will  keep  two  months  in  a  cool  place  without  needing  soda. 
It  should  be  put  into  a  half  gallon  jug,  corked,  and  tied  down  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place.  One  tea-cupful  will  raise  two  large  loaves 
of  bread. 

CONNECTICUT   YEAST. 

Put  a  handful  of  hops  in  a  bag,  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water  with 
live  pared  potatoes ;  when  done,  sift  the  potatoes,  put  with  them 
in  a  pan  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  half  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of 
salt ;  pour  on  this  the  boiling  hop  water.  AVhen  sufficiently  cool, 
add  yeast  enough  to  ferment  it  well,  then  put  it  in  a  jug,  cork  tight, 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 

AN   EXCELLENT   YEAST. 

Boil  four  good  sized  potatoes,  mash  or  sift  fine,  then  add  one 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  salt,  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  then  put  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  a  cup  of  old 
yeast ;  cover  and  rise  over  night ;  it  will  then  be  fit  to  use ;  one 
gill  is  sufficient  for  three  pints  of  flour. 

POTATO   YEAST. 

This  does  not  keep  long,  but  it  is  very  nice  to  use  for  anything 
which  requires  raising.     It  is  made  by  smoothly  mashing  a  dozen 


232  YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUITS,    ETC. 

large,  mealy,  boiled  potatoes,  into  which  mix  a  large  handful  of 
white  flour  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  in  a  tea-cup  of  baker's  yeast  to 
make  it  a  batter.  When  it  is  raised  up  light,  bottle  and  cork  it 
tight  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place.  It  may  be  used  without  any  fear 
of  making  bread  or  biscuit  bitter,  as  is  sometimes  the  case  with 
Lop  yeast. 

YEAST   CAKES. 

Stir  light  fresh  hop  yeast  into  Indian  meal  until  it  becomes  the 
consistency  of  dough.  Make  this  into  thin  cakes,  and  dry  on  a 
board  in  the  oven,  or  where  there  is  sun,  and  a  current  of  air. 
Turn  twice  a  day,  until  thoroughly  dried,  and  then  put  them  in  a 
bag  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place.     They  keep  good  a  long  time. 

BREAD. — 1. 

For  about  three  loaves  of  bread,  the  night  before  baking,  bake 
a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  put  it  into  a  pan,  sprinkle  on  two  tea-spoons- 
fuls  of  cold  water;  then  pour  on  it  very  gradually,  stirring  out  the 
lumps  carefully  as  the  Hour  becomes  wetted,  a  quart  of  boiling  wa- 
ter. Let  it  stand  and  get  nearly  c^old,  and  then  add  half  a  pint  of 
potato  yeast,  mixing  it  in  thoroughly.  Let  it  stand  in  the  room, 
not  where  it  is  too  warm,  over  night,  in  the  morning  have  ready 
sufficient  sifted  flour  in  the  tray,  then  make  a  pint  of  thin  corn- 
.  meal  mush,  clear  and  free  frosn  lumps,  set  it  away  till  it  cools,  then 
pour  it  in  a  hole  made  in  the  middle  of  the  flour.  Pour  in  also  the 
yeast  batter  instead  of  wetting,  and  mix  the  whole  into  dough. 
Knead  it  and  set  it  away  to  rise,  being  very  careful  to  keep  it  an 
equal  temperature  the  whole  time.  When  light  mold  it  into  loaves ; 
let  it  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  then  bake 
about  an  hour,  or  until  done.  It  should  not  be  underbaked,  and  it 
is  just  as  important  that  it  should  not  be  over-done.  It  is  a  com- 
mon error  that  over-done  bread  is  healthy.  If  the  crusts  are  thick 
and  hard  they  can  be  moistened  up,  covering  the  loaf  fresh  from 
the  oven  with  one  or  two  thicknesses  of  damp  cloth.  Several 
thicknesses  of  wet  cloth  wrapped  around  it  in  this  way  render  ic 
indigestible.  In  making  the  batter  over  night,  five  or  six  middling 
sized  potatoes,  boiled  to  a  mush,  and  pulped  through  a  colander, 
may  be  added  to  it. 


YKAST,    BREAL>,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  233 


BREAD. — 2. 

An  easier  way  of  makini^  bread,  is  to  heat  two  bricks  to  one 
hundred  degrees  or  more,  and  place  tlic  pan  you  make  the  bread  in, 
on  them.  Put  in  the  flour  and  salt ;  make  for  three  loaves,  a  pint 
of  corn  meal  mush,  [vea  from  lumps ;  set  it  awa}'  to  cool ;  mix  it 
in  the  flour  with  a  tea-cup  of  potato  yeast,  and  make  the  whole  in- 
to dough  with  lukewarm  water;  the  mixing  and  kneading  all 
being  done  on  the  hot  bricks.  Have  well-greased  tins,  divide  the 
dough  into  them,  set  them  to  rise  on  the  hot  bricks  by  the  stove, 
with  a  piece  of  carpet  over  the  bricks  to  moderate  the  heat,  and 
cover  them  well  with  woolens.  Let  it  rise  about  two  hours,  then 
bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

GENERAL   RULES. 

Generally  in  making  bread,  one  quart  of  wetting,  either  of  milk 
or  water,  is  sufficient  for  five  quarts  of  flour  or  meal.  Ten  quarts 
of  flour  or  meal  will  make  four  loaves  of  about  three  and  a  half 
pounds  each,  to  be  baked  in  quart  pans.  Water  mixed  with  flour 
or  meal  should  be  about  blood  warm.  When  yeast  is  used,  it 
should  be  well  stirred  and  diluted  with  lukewarm  Avater  before 
being  added  to  the  Hour. 

RYE    AND    INDIAN    BREAD 

The  proportions  of  rye  and  corn  meal  used,  may  be  varied  ac- 
cording to  the  taste.  If  the  largest  proportion  of  rye  is  used, 
make  the  dough  stiff;  if  the  largest  proportion  of  corn  meal,  make 
the  dough  softer.  The  greater  the  proportion  of  corn  meal,  the 
longer  the  bread  re(]uires  baking.  The  best  way  to  mix  the  dough 
is  to  put  the  I'orn  meal  into  a  glazed  earthen  pan  ;  sprinkle  salt  over 
it,  pour  on  boiling  water,  work  it  till  thoroughly  wet,  and  when 
about  milk-warm  add  the  rye  flour  with  the  yeast,  and  as  much 
more  warm,  but  not  hot  water,  as  is  required.  Work  the  dough 
until  stiff,  but  not  as  stiff  as  flour  dough.  Put  it  then  in  a  deep 
greased  pan,  put  your  hand  in  warm  water  and  pat  down  the  top, 
set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  by  the  stove  in  winter,  but  in  the  sun 
m  summer.  When  it  begins  to  crack  on  the  top,  which  will  be  in 
an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half,  put  in  a  well  heated  oven.     To 

V 


234  '    YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUITS,    ETC. 

make  the  bread  two  thirds  of  corn  meal,  take  four  quarts  ofsifted 
corn  meal,  sprinkle  a  table-spoonful  of  salt  over  it,  pour  over  it 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  as  directed  above ;  when  lukewarm 
add  two  (|uarts  of  rye  meal,  half  a  pint  of  lively  yeast  mixed  in  a 
pint  of  warm  water, — add  more  warm  water  if  necessary.  Bake 
two  or  three  hours.  This  makes  a  loaf  weighing  seven  or  eight 
pounds. 

GRAHAM    BREAD. 

Make  a  batter  of  Graham  flour  in  the  ordinary  way,  but  mix  it 
rather  thin.  Let  it  rise,  divide  the  loaves  into  tins  just  as  soon  as 
it  is  light,  for  it  becomes  sour  quicker  than  bolted  flour ;  bake  an 
hour  and  a  quarter,  or  an  hour  and  a  half,  according  to  the  size  of 
the  loaf.     A  little  molasses  can  be  added  to  the  batter  if  desired. 

SWEET   BROWN   BREAD. 

One  quart  of  rye  flour,  two  quarts  of  Indian  meal,  one  pint  of 
Graham  flour,  all  fresh,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  molasses  or  brown  su- 
gar, half  a  pint  of  potato  yeast,  and  salt.  Mix  into  as  stiff  a 
dough  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  using  warm  water  for  wet- 
ting. Let  it  rise  several  hours  or  over  night,  then  bake  five  or  six 
hours. 

RICE  FLOUR  BREAD. — 1. 

Boil  a  pint  of  rice  sofl,  add  a  pint  of  cream,  then  three  quarts 
of  nee  flour;  put  it  to  rise  in  a  tin  or  earthen  vessel  until  it  has 
risen  sufficient ;  divide  it  into  three  parts,  and  bake  it  as  other 
bread,  and  you  will  have  three  large  loaves ;  or  scald  the  flour, 
and  when  it  is  cold  mix  ^^.alf  wheat  flour  or  corn.  Raised  with 
leaven  in  the  usual  way. 

RICE   FLOUR   BREAD. 2. 

One  quart  of  rice  fiour  ;•  make  it  into  a  stiff  pap  by  wetting  with 
warm  water,  not  so  hot  as  to  make  it  lumpy ;  when  well  wet,  add 
boiling  hot  water,  as  much  as  two  or  three  quarts ;  stir  it  contin- 
ually until  it  boils;  when  it  cools,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  yeast  and  a 
little  salt ;  knead  in  as  much  wheat  flour  as  will  make  it  a  proper 
dough  for  bread ;  put  it  to  rise,  and  when  risen,  add  a  little  more 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUITS,   ETC.  235 

wheat  flour.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  Lalf  an  hour,  and  bake 
it.  This  same  mixture,  only  made  thinner,  and  baked  in  rings, 
makes  excellent  muffins. 

MOIST   RICE   BREAD. 

In  three  quarts  of  cold  milk  and  water,  mix  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  ground  rice.  It  will  be  a  tliin  gruel ;  boil  it  three  or  four  min- 
utes, and  then  stir  in  Graham  flour  until  it  is  too  stiff  to  stir  with 
a  spoon.  Let  it  become  lukewarm,  add  two  gills  of  yeast  and 
salt;  let  it  rise,  and  bake  it  an  hour. 

APPLE    BREAD 

Mix  the  pulp  from  a  dozen  good-flavored,  boiled  apples,  with 
twice  its  quantity  of  wheat  flour,  or  Graham  flour;  add  salt,  yeast, 
and  bake  as  usual. 

PULLED    BREAD. 

Take  the  crumb  out  of  a  hot  loaf  of  bread,  and  divide  it  into 
rocky  looking  pieces,  by  pulling  it  to  pieces  quickly  with  the  fin- 
gers of  both  hands;  place  these  pieces  on  a  baking  tin,  lined  with 
paper,  and  bake  them  over  again  to  a  light-brown  color.  Do  them 
in  a  quick  oven  to  ensure  their  being  very  crisp. 

PIECES    OF   BREAD. 

These  need  not  be  thrown  away.  Rich  bread  puddings  may  be 
made  of  them  ;  they  may  be  made  into  crumb  cakes,  or  dressing 
for  any  kind  of  meat  that  can  be  stuffed,  is  made  of  softened  crusts, 
butter,  herbs,  and  a  beaten  egg.  In  the  summer  when  bread  becomes 
mouldy  by  keeping,  the  pieces  that  cannot  be  used  immediately,  can 
be  dried  on  tins  in  the  oven  and  used  pounded  for  puddings,  or 
crumb  cakes,  or  to  dress  a  ham,  as  cracker  crumbs.  Some  have  a 
small  board  on  which  to  slice  bread,  and  brush  the  crumbs  from 
it  into  a  box.  It  is  easier  to  save  them  than  to  scatter  them  over 
the  table  or  floor.    . 

SHORT    CAKE. 

Put  into  a  basin  twelve  ounces  of  flour,  and  six  ounces  of  but 
tcr,  or  half  the  quantity  if  sufficient  for  your  purpose ;  take   off 


236  YEAST,    BRKxVD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 

little  bits  of  butter  with  your  finijers  and  rub  thoroughly  into  tho 
flour;  then  moisten  it  with  as  little  water  as  possible,  only  just 
enough  to  hold  the  paste  together,  as  the  less  water  used  the  short- 
er the  erust  will  be.  Roll  out  the  paste  upon  a  smooth  board,  of 
the  desired  thickness.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  the  co\er  of 
two  fruit  tarts.  While  making  pastry  always  endeavor  to  be  in  a 
cool  place  in  summer,  and  a  moderately  warm  one  in  winter;  uso 
cold  water  in  summer,  and  water  a  little  warm  in  winter. 

RUSKS. 

Tlw'ee  pints  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  rubbed  in  the  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  yeast,  one  pint  of 
warm  milk.  Set  a  sponge  and  put  all  in  Mix  soft.  Ihis  is 
good  for  doughnuts. 

BAKED   BATTER. 

Four  pints  of  cold  milk,  three  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  two 
crackers  pounded  fine,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  table-spoonful  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  a  fittle  salt  to  be  eaten  with  butter  and  white  su- 
gar.    Flavor  with  lemon. 

RYE   DROP   CAKES. 

Mix  togetner  one  quart  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter as  large  as  an  eg^^  two  tea-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda,  half  a  tea-cup  of  white  sugar,  and  sufficient 
rye  meal  to  make  a  thick  batter.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

RICE   BISCUIT. 

Mix  with  warm  water,  a  tea-cup  of  boiled  rice,  two  pounds  of 
flour,  two  spoonsful  of  yeast;  let  it  rise,  and  bake  it. 

HOE   CAKES. 

First  scald  a  quart  of  Indian  meal  in  enough  water  to  make  a 
thick  batter;  mix  in  two  spoonsful  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  and  two  tea-spoonsful  of  salt.     Bake  about  half  an  hour  in  a 

buttered  pan. 

fanny's  breakfast  cakes 

In  one  quart  of  thick  sour  milk,  stir  Graham  flour,  to  make  a 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  237 

fcbick  batter,  add  a  little  salt,  a  heaping  tea-spoon    of  soda,  and  a 
tea-spoon  of  melted  butter.     Make  it  into  drop  cakes,  and  bake. 

CORN   CREAM   CAKE. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  or  buttermilk,  and  put  a  sour  thick  cream 
mixed  with  sufficient  bi-carbonate  of  soda  to  sweeten  it,  add  corn 
meal  enough  to  the  milk  and  cream  to  thicken  it  to  the  consistency 
of  pound  cake,  stirring  It  in ;  put  it  an  inch  thick  in  floured  pans, 
and  bake  it  In  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.    D.'^S   TEA   BISCUIT. 

Six  tumblers  flour,  one  half  pound  butter,  three  tumblers  milk, 
two  tea-spoonsful  cream  tartar,  one  half  tea-spoonful  soda;  mix 
sofl,  bake  quick. 

CORN   BREAD. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  pint  of  white 
flour,  two  even  tea-spoonsful  of  soda,  one  tea^cupful  of  molasses 
or  brown  sugar,  one  large  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  bake  an  hour.  Tt 
is  nice  and  warm  for  dinner,  and  moist  and  toothsome  when  cold. 
Good  Indian  cake  is  made  with  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  with  a  little 
cream  or  butter  rubbed  on  the  meat,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  sal- 
eratus. 

BREAKFAST     JOHNNY    CAKE. 

Mix  over  night  six  or  eight  table-spoorsful  of  fine  yellow  Indian 
meal,  with  two  of  wheat  flour,  one  of  corn  starch,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  and  water  enough  to  wet  thoroughly  —  milk  is  better,  but 
is  not  essential.  In  the  morning  add  one  egg^  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  a  table-spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  another  of  melted  but- 
ter; beat  up  well,  and  bake  immediately.  This  is  good  enough 
for  **  company." 

BREAKFAST   CORN   CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  meal,  and  half  a  cup  of  flour,  mixed  with  butter- 
milk, or  sweet  milk,  and  water,  over  night,  and  left  standing.  In 
the  morning  add  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  a  table-spoonful  of 
sugar,  or  molasses,  and  as  much  melted  butter,  together  with  a  lit- 


238  YEAST,   BREAD,    BISCUIT,   ETC. 

the  salt.  Bake  an  hour.  It  is  very  nice.  A  little  cold  hominy,  or 
farina,  mixed  smoothly  with  the  meal,  improves  corn  cake  without 
eggs,  wonderfully. 

CORN  MEAL  WAFFLES. 

Two  eggs,  yolks  well  beaten,  one  table-spoon  of  butter,  one  of 
flour,  one  tea-spoon  of  salt,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of 
meal  twice  sifted ,  half  tea-spoon  of  soda  ;  add  last  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten. 

WESTERN   JOHNNY   CAKE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  halt  cup  of  sugar  or  molasses, 
tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  a  cup  of  wheat  flour,  thicken  with  In- 
dian meal  to  a  batter.     Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

BUTTERMILK  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

A  quart  of  Graham  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut,  a 
tea-spoon  of  salt,  a  tea-spoon  of  soda,  and  sufl[icient  good  butter. 
Add  enough  milk  to  mix  to  the  consistency  of  cup  cake.  Drop  the 
batter  by  the  large  spoonful  on  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  quick. 
They  will  puff  right  up,  and  be  ready  for  the  table  in  fifteen  min- 
utes. 

RICE   PUFFS. 

To  a  pint  of  flour  put  boiling  water  or  milk  suflicient  to  make  a 
batter.  AVhen  it  is  cold  beat  four  eggs  and  put  in,  together  with 
a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Drop  this  mixture  by  the  large  spoonful 
in-to  hot  fat. 

RICE  FLOUR   PUFFS. 

To  a  pint  of  the  flour,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water ;  beat  up  four  eggs,  stir  them  well  together,  put  from 
two  to  three  spoonsful  of  lard  in  a  pan,  make  it  boiling  hot,  and 
fry  as  you  do  common  fritters. 

RICE   FLOUR   CAKES. 

Take  a  pint  of  soft-boiled  rice,  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  water,  to 
which  add  twelve  spoonsful  of  rice  flour.  Divide  it  into  small 
cakes,  and  bake  In  a  brick  oven. 


YEAST,   BREAD,   BISCUIT,   ETC.  239 


OAT  CAKE. 

Melt  half  an  ounce  of  salt  butter  or  lard,  in  a  pint  of  bo  iling 
water,  and  having  put  a  pound  of  oat  meal  into  a  basin,  pour  the 
water,  quite  boiling,  upon  it.  Stir  it  as  quickly  as  possible  into 
a  dough.  Turn  this  out  on  a  baking  plate  and  roll  it  out  until  it 
js  as  thin  as  it  can  be  to  hold  together,  then  cut  it  out  into  shape 
of  small  round  cakes.  Make  these  firm  by  placing  them  over  the 
fire  on  a  griddle  (a  gridiron  of  fine  wire  bars)  for  a  very  short 
time,  and  afterwards  toast  them  on  each  side  alternately  before 
the  fire  until  they  become  quite  crisp.  A  simpler  way  is  to  make 
a  thick  paste  of  coarse  oat  meal  and  water,  knead  it,  spread  it  thin, 
lay  it  on  a  griddle  over  the  fire,  turn  and  brown  on  both  sides. 

LEIGHT   STREET   CRUMPETS. 

Mix  a  quart  of  warm  milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  gill 
of  potato  yeast,  with  sufficient  flour  or  meal  to  make  a  rather 
thick  batter.  When  light  add  a  tea-cnpful  of  sweet  cream,  let  it 
rise  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  it  as  muffins  or  in  cups. 

FLOUR  AND  POTATO  ROLLS. 

Roil  and  dry  one  pound  of  potatoes,  mix  them  with  two  ounces 
of  sweet  cream  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  .and  rub  them  through  a 
wire  sieve  into  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour.  Mix  a  gill  more  of 
warm  milk  with  a  little  yeast,  and  add  to  the  flour.  Make  into 
dough,  let  it  rise  before  the  fire,  form  into  rolls,  and  bake  quickly. 

RICE   WAFFLES. 

Take  a  large  coffee-cup  of  well-boiled  rice,  stir  in  two  eggs  and 
a  large  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a 
quart  of  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  **  self-raising  "^ 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  If  the  flour  is  not  *'  self* 
raising,"  put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  of 
soda.     See  that  your  waffle-irons  are  well  heated  and  greased. 

GREEN   CORN   CAKES. 

i\Iix  a  pint  of  grated  green  corn  with  a  tea-cup  of  flour,  half  a 
tea-cup  of  milk,  half  a  tea-cup  of  melted  butter,  one   egg,  a  tea- 


240  YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 

spoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  Drop  this  mixture  on  a  buttered 
pan  by  th(^  spoonful,  and  bake  or  fry  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
They  are  very  nice  for  breakfast. 

BUTTER   CAKES    FOR   TEA. 

To  half  a  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  tea-cup 
of  cream,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  cream, 
a  little  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  sufficient  sifted 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Drop  it  in  thin  round  cakes  on  a 
buttered  pan  or  griddle,  turn  them  while  baking,  and  bake  until 
browned.  Send  to  table  piled  on  a  plate  with  a  little  butter  on 
each. 

SODA    BISCUIT. 

Stir  into  one  quart  of  flour  two  tea-spoonsful  of  cream  tartar, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  dissolve  in  three  gills  of  new  milk  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda ;  stir  it  into  the  flour  quickly,  pour  all  on  the 
board,  roll  out,  cut  in  small  circular  cakes,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

ENGLISH  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

Warm  a  pint  of  milk  and  four  ounces  of  good  butter  till  luke- 
warm ;  add  two  beaten  eggs,  three  ounces  of  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  yeast ;  raise  the  flour,  work  the  dough,  using  more 
flour  if  necessary ;  divide  into  cakes,  and  let  them  rise  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  and  bake  them  in  buttered  tins.  When  done, 
cut  those  to  be  used  ijito  slices,  butter  on  each  side  and  warm  them 
a  minute,  serving  them  hot.  In  using  the  remainder  for  another 
meal,  they  may  be  warmed  and  buttered  in  the  same  way. 

FRENCH    ROLLS. 

Warm  a  pint  of  new  milk,  melt  two  large  spoonsful  of  butter, 
add  a  little  salt.  When  cool,  sift  in  one  pound  of  flour,  one  eg^ 
well  beaten,  one  spoonful  of  yeast.  Beat  these  well  together,  but 
avoid  kneading.  When  risen,  form  it  into  rolls,  handling  as  little 
as  possible.     Bake  on  tins,  and  serve. 

GRAHAM   BISCUIT. — 1. 

These  are  quickly  made,  and  very  nice  for  breakfast.     Take  3 


YEAST,    BREAD,   BISCUIT,    ETC.  241 

quart  of  Graham  or  unbolted  flour  and  mix  it  to  the  consistency 
of  drop  cake  with  butter-milk,  an  even  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  drop  the 
mixture  on  a  shallow  pan.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

GKAHAM   BISCUIT. — 2. 

Mix  together  as  for  bread  one  quart  of  Graham  meal,  two 
spoonsful  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  lard,  two  spoonsful  of 
wheat  flour,  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  and  salt.  Let  it  stand  all  night 
to  rise,  and  in  the  morning  put  it  in  muflin  rings ;  let  them  stand 
half  an  hour,  and  then  bake. 

sr>FT    WAFFLES. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  q-mrter  pound  of  butter, 
yeast ;  to  be  made  as  thin  as  pancakes. 

MUFFINS. — 1. 

Mix  a  quart  of  wheat  flour  with  half  a  tea-cupful  of  potato  yeast, 
two  beaten  eggs,  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  luke-wann  milk,  and  two  table-spoonsful  of  melted  butter ;  set 
to  rise,  and  when  very  light  turn  into  well-buttered  muffin  rings, 
and  bake  a  clear,  light  brown. 

MUFFINS. — 2. 

Two  coffee-cups  of  milk,  three  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  two  tea-spoonsful  cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda. 
Take  half  your  milk,  half  your  flour,  eggs,  salt,  butter,  and  cream 
of  tartar;  beat  well  until  smooth,  then  add  by  degrees  the  rest  of 
the  milk  and  flour,  and  lastly  the  soda,  mixed  with  a  little  flour. 

HOT   CROSS   BUNS.    (GOOD   FRIDAY.) 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour  well  dried,  rub  in  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  add  four  eggs,  four  spoonsful  of  yeast,  and  as  much  new 
milk  as  will  make  it  into  a  soft  dough.  Put  in  while  mixing,  half 
a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  caraway  seeds. 
Set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise,  and  when  it  is  light,  divide  it  into  the 
11 


242  YEAST,    BREAD,   BISCUIT,   ETC. 

proper  size  for  buns.     Make  a  cross  upon  each,  and  glaze  the  top 
with  white  of  egg,  and  sugar. 

DRY   TOAST. 

Dry  bread  well  and  evenly  toasted,  without  being  burned,  is 
tlie  best  food  that  can  be  taken  for  very  acid  and  irritable  stom- 
achs. Nice,  fresh-sliced  bread  toasted,  may  be  well  spread  with 
butter  and  served  immediately  as  a  good  breakfast  dish.  Bread 
a  little  soured  or  over  fermented  is  improved,  though  not  cured, 
by  toasting. 

DIP  TOAST. 

Toast  bread,  and  dip  it  auicklv  into  boiling  water ;  spread  it 
with  plenty  of  butter,  and  serve  immediately,  or  let  it  stand  in  the 
oven  if  required  to  wait. 

CREAM     TOAST. 

Toast  slices  of  stale  bread  on  both  sides,  and  pour  on  them 
while  hot,  sweet  cream  diluted  by  an  equal  quantity  of  scalded 
milk. 


THE  FAMILY  OF  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  buckwheat,  Indian  meal  and  Graham 
flour,  to  make  one  quart,  add  half  a  cup  of  new  yeast,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  saleratus,  a  little  salt  and  enough  good  milk,  or  luke  warm 
water  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Set  it  near  the  fire  to  rise,  and 
when  risen,  cook  them  in  a  well  buttered  griddle. 

COMMON   PANCAKES. 

y  Mix  together  three  spoonsful  of  flour,  two  beaten  eggs  and  a 
little  salt,  stir  in  good  milk  by  degrees,  and  fry  them  in  boiling 
lard  a  light  brown  color.  The  eggs  may  be  dispensed  with,  or 
veast  or  snow  used  in  their  stead. 


YEAST,   BKEAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  213 


SHROVE    TUESDAY   PANCAKES. 


Four  eggs,  four  table-spoonsful  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk  and 
pint  of  cream,  or  quart  of  milk,  and  table-spoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter;  salt  to  taste,  and  add  just  before  frymg  in  hot  lard,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  currants. 


BREAD   GRIDDLE   CAKES. 


Take  pieces  of  stale  bread,  soak  them  in  water  till  quite  soft, 
drain  them  and  rub  the  bread  to  a  pulp ;  then  add  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  cook 
them  in  the  griddle. 


SODA    GRIDDLE   CAKES 

Stir  together  in  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two 
tea-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick 
batter,  and  fry  them  on  the  griddle. 

RICE   CAKES. 

To  one  tea-cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  put  one  of  flour,  one  egg, 
one  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch,  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  sour 
milk,  or  buttermilk,  enough  to  make  a  batter ;  mix  smoothly,  and 
at  the  last  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  a  little  melted  butter ; 
bake  immediately.  If  sweet  milk  is  used,  put  in  rather  less  soda 
and  double  the  same  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar.  Cold  boiled 
hominy  can  be  used  In  the  same  way ;  these  are  an  excellent  Spring 
substitute  for  buckwheat  cakes. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

/  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  let  it  melt ; 
''  add  then  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  four  beaten  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  two  table-spoonsful  of  yeast,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place  three  hours  to  rise,  then  fry  on  the 
griddle. 

CREAM  PANCAKES. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  fry  them  on  the  griddle  thin,  and  serve  hot,  with 
grated  sugar  over  them 


244  YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 


ECONOMICAL   GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

A  capital  and  economical  way  of  making  griddle  cakes,  is  to  keep 
a  stone  jar  or  pitcher,  into  which  put  all  the  scraps,  cold  hominy, 
rice,  mashed  potato,  small  pieces  of  bread,  in  short  everything 
ealable  which  is  clean  and  good,  and  can  be  reduced  to  a  pulp. 
Into  the  mixture  also  put  any  stray  drops  of  milk  that  may  be  left, 
and  when  a  pint,  or  more,  or  less,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
family,  has  accumulated,  mix  it  with  flour  into  a  batter,  sweeten 
with  a  tea-spoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  or  refined  saleratus,  and 
reduce  still  further  if  necessary,  with  a  little  sweet  milk.  These 
cakes  will  be  found  delicious,  and  can  be  made  without  any  eggs, 
by  putting  in  one  or  two  table-spoonsful  of  maizena. 

INDIAN   GRIDDLE    CAKES. — 1. 

Mix  together  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  a  little-  salt  and 
ginger,  and  suflicient  sour  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  on 
the  griddle. 

INDIAN   GRIDDLE    CAKES. — 2. 

In  a  quart  of  warm  milk  mix  a  quart  of  Indian  meal,  a  handful 
of  wheat  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  two  tea-spoonsful  of 
yeast,  and  two  or  three  beaten  eggs.  Let  it  rise  and  bake  on  the 
griddle.  If  the  batter  should  sour,  dissolve  a  little  saleratus  in 
lukewarm  water,  stir  it  in  the  batter  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour 
before  using. 

INDIAN    GRIDDLE   CAKES. — 3. 

Scald  at  night  half  the  quantity  of  meal  to  be  used ;  mix  the 
other  half  with  cold  water  until  it  is  thick  batter;  add  a  little  salt 
and  set  it  to  rise  without  yeast.  This  will  make  light,  crisp  cakes 
in  the  morning.  The  skimmings  of  boiled  meat  is  the  best  to  fry 
them  with.     Fry  slowly. 

RYE   GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  one-half  tea-spoon  saleratus. 
Pinch  of  salt,  enough  rye  flour  to  make  batter. 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  245 


RICE   FLOUR   CAKES    LIKE    BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

Mix  one  quarter  of  wheat  Hour  to  three  quarters  of  superfine 
rice  flour,  and  raise  it  as  buckwheat  flour.  Bake  it  like  buckwheat 
cakes. 

TOMATO    GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

Cover  sliced  ripe  tomatoes  with  a  nice  batter,  and  fry  them  on 
the  griddle. 

SCOTCH    PANCAKES. 

Mix  together  four  table-spoonsful  of  sifted  flour  and  four  well 
beaten  eggs  ;  after  these  are  stirred  together  awhile,  add  gradually 
a  pint  of  milk,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Put  a  shallow 
frying  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  it,  on  the  fire,  and  pour 
into  it  half  a  tea-cup  of  batter.  Turn  the  pan  round  over  the 
fire  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  by  taking  it  oft'  the  fire  and  holding 
it  upright  in  front  of  the  bars  it  will  rise  immediately.  When  it 
is  done,  cut  the  edges,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  roll  up. 

THE   POUGHKEEPSIE   SEER'S   INDIAN    B\NNOCK. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  quart  of  nulk,  boil  one  pint  of  the 
milk,  and  scald  the  meal  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  tea-spoon  of  salt, 
a  table-spoon  of  melted  butter,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  thin 
batter  with  the  cold  milk.     Bake  brown  in  shallow  pans. 


BOILED  FARINACEOUS  DISHES. 

HOMINY   AND   FARINA. 

As  a  change  from  griddle  cakes,  housekeepers  will  find  a  dish 
of  boiled  hominy,  or  farina,  very  palatable,  and  especially  health- 
ful for  children.  Farina  should  be  mixed  thin,  about  like  meal 
mush,  and  boiled  as  long,  say  an  hour.  Hominy  should  be  soaked 
in  cold  water  over  night,  and  boiled  for  an  hour,  with  a  little  salt, 
in  the  morning.  It  is  eaten  with  sugar  and  milk,  or  butter  and 
sugar.     It  is  a  reliable  breakfast  dish  the  year  round. 


246  YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 


HOMINY   CAKES. 

Mix  with  cold  hominy  an  equal  quantity  of  white  flour  until  per* 
fectly  smooth ;  add  a  tea-spoon  of  salt,  and  thin  off  with  butter-milk, 
into  part  of  which  a  tea-spoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved ;  when 
of  the  consistency  of  griddle  cakes,  add  a  dessert-spoon  of  melted 
butter,  and  bake  as  usual ;  with  maple  syrup  they  are  delicious, 
and  the  absence  of  eggs  will  not  be  noticed. 

SAMP. 

Soak  a  quart  of  cracked  Indian  corn,  over  night,  and  put  it  on 
the  fire,  first  thing  after  breakfast,  with  three  pounds  of  beef,  not 
too  salt,  and  one  of  pork.  Cover  with  water,  and  let  it  cook  slow- 
ly five  hours,  being  very  careful  not  to  let  it  burn. 

HASTY    PUDDING 

Boil  water,  mix  in  a  little  salt,  and  then  stir  in  gradually  so  as 
to  prevent  lumping,  sufficient  corn  meal  to  thicken  it.  It  should 
boil  at  least  an  hour,  and  may  be  eaten  with  milk,  cream  and  su- 
gar, or  butter  and  syrup,  or  sugar. 

RYE   MEAL   MUSH. 

Stir  gradually  in  boiling  water  in  which  a  little  salt  has  been 
thrown,  fresh-ground  rye  meal.     Let  it  boil  about  an  hour. 

INDIAN   MEAL   GRUEL. 

Boil  a  quart  of  water  in  the  saucepan,  mix  in  cold  water  three 
table-spoonsful  of  Indian  meal  and  half  a  table-spoonful  of  flour, 
pour  in  the  boiling  water  gradually  stirring  all  the  time ;  boil 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Take  it  off 
and  season  sparingly  with  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  add  if  desired  a 
Tery  little  new  milk ;  for  a  very  sick  person,  the  nutmeg  and  milk, 
and  even  the  salt,  may  be  omitted.  Oat  meal  gruel  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  mix  a  large  spoonful  of  flour 
in  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  water  while  it  is  boiling,  and 


YEAST,   BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  247 

let  it  it  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  a  tea-cupful  of  milk,  a  littlo 
salt,  and  give  it  one  boil. 

ENGLISH  FRUMETY 

Soak  half  a  pint  of  wheat,  and  then  boil  it  gently  for  three  or 
four  hours.  Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  mix  with  it, 
also  a  tea-cupful  of  raisins  and  currants,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  or 
cinnamon,  and  grated  lemon  peel.  Boil  all  together  for  another 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve.  If  preferred  thinner,  more  milk 
can  be  added. 

OLD  FASHIONED   HULLED   CORN. 

Shell  a  dozen  years  of  ripe,  dry  corn,  put  it  in  an  iron  kettle 
and  cover  with  cold  water ;  put  in  the  corn  a  bag  of  two  tea-cups- 
ful  of  fresh  wood  ashes,  and  boil  until  the  corn  looks  yellow,  and 
tastes  strong  of  the  alkali,  then  take  out  the  bag  and  boil  the  corn 
in  the  lye  over  an  hour,  then  pour  off  the  lye,  add  fresh  water,  and 
simmer  until  the  corn  swells.  If  the  hulls  do  not  then  come  off 
by  stirring,  turn  off  the  water  and  rub  them  off  with  a  towel;  add 
more  water  and  sinnner  for  three  or  four  hours,  often  stirring  to 
keep  it  from  burning ;  when  it  swells  out  and  becomes  soft  and 
white,  add  salt  to  liking  and  let  all  the  water  simmer  away.  Eat 
warm  or  cold  with  cream  or  milk. 


BREAKFAST, 


BUKAKFAST. 


A  great  variety  of  dishes  are  unnecessary  for  breakfast,  but  see 
that  what  you  do  have,  is  nicely  cooked,  and  properly  served.  Un- 
less sickness  or  some  other  circumstance  prevents,  the  mistress  of 
the  house  should  always  add  the  finishing  touches  to  the  breakfast 
room,  and  the  breakfast  table.  The  most  experienced  servant  will 
fail  in  producing  just  the  right  degree  of  light  and  sunhght,  in 
getting  rid  of  the  last  speck  of  dust,  or  the  latest  evidence  of  ashes, 
and  never  thinks  at  all  of  transferring  a  branch  of  rosebuds,  and 
geranium  from  the  garden  to  the  mantel  piece ;  these  belong  to  the 
gentler  thought,  and  more  refined  instincts  of  the  cultivated  lady, 
and  such  duties  are  not  at  all  beneath  the  dignity  of  the  highest  in 
the  land. 

That  the  dishes  may  be  well-cooked,  and  well  served,  they  must 
be  adapted  to  the  other  services  required  on  that  day.  On  wash- 
ing and  ironing  days,  for  instance,  as  little  time,  and  as  little  of  the 
fire  should  be  used  as  possible,  and  care  should  be  taken  to  save 
interruption  to  the  important,  and  principal  business  of  the  day. 

Broiled  chicken,  or  warmed  over  chicken,  and  omeletts,  are 
always  nice  break  fast  dishes,  but  in  cities  the  prices  puts  them  out 
of  the  reach  of  ordinary  people,  except  on  extraordinary  occasions. 
The  regular  di.shes,  such  as  beefsteak,  mutton  chops,  fish,  broiled 
ham,  eggs,  and  warmed  over  potatoes,  are  all  understood,  and  in 
the  different  kinds  and  degrees,  constitute  the  daily  breakfast  proba- 
bly, of  half  the  world. 

There  is  a  very  important  point  however,  to  which  little  attention 
is  paid,  and  that  is  fruit.  '*  Fruit,"  saith  the  old  proverb,  *'  is  golden 
in  the  morning,  silver  at  noon,  and  lead  at  night, ^'  yet  it  is  only  at 
night,  that  in  this  country,  we  eat  it  at  all,  as  part  of  a  meal.  Thia 
is  wrong,  fruit  is  a  most  valuable  part  of  i^ood,  it   cannot  be  too 


BREAKFAST.  210 

hl;^hly  estimated ;  more  fruit,  with  less  saleratus,  and  rieh  greasy 
compounds,  such  as  butter  with  meats,  gravies,  and  the  h'ke.  would 
take  away  the  occupation  of  half  the  doctors,  and  reduce  wonder- 
fully the  sum  total  of  dyspepsia  and  liver  complaints. 

A  distinguished  physician  has  said  that  one  or  two  tart  Messina 
oranges  eaten  before  breakfast  during  the  three  spring  months, 
would  cure  the  worst  obstinate  bilious  disorder  ;  but  the  cure  would 
uudoubiedly  be  as  effectual  if  they  were  eaten  at  breakfast,  and  the 
usual  amount  of  pork  and  melted  butter  on  hot  cakes,  reduced 
during  that  time. 

The  rule  should  be  to  have  fresh  fruit  on  the  table  every  morning, 
as  long  as  it  lasts,  and  then  a  preparation  of  dried,  canned,  or 
preserved  fruits,  a  small  investment  in  Guava  jelly ;  and  that  India 
fruit,  for  breakfast,  will  not  be  thrown  away,  after  your  own  stock 
is  exhausted,  and  you  begin  to  tire  of  apples,  and  the  common 
dried  varieties. 

A  very  valuable  adjunct  to  the  breakfast  table  is  the  tomato ; 
highly  prized  as  it  is,  its  admirable  medicinal  qualities  are  only  just 
beginning  to  be  discovered.  Providentially,  it  is  so  cheap,  and 
grows  so  readily  and  profusely,  that  the  poorest  person  can  lux- 
uriate in  its  excellence,  as  well  as  the  richest,  and  derive  all  the 
more  benefit  from  not  being  able  to  destroy  its  virtue  with  butter, 
and  an  excess  of  condiments. 

Tomatoes  are  an  almost  soveriegn  cure  for  dyspepsia,  and  should 
be  on  the  table,  raw  or  cooked,  the  year  round.  Persons  habituated 
to  them,  soon  learn  to  love  them  in  any  form,  sliced  with  a  little 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  stewed,  baked,  or  even  fresh  from  the 
vines  ;  the  least  healthful  and  generally  the  least  palatable  mode  of 
serving  them,  is  sweetened,  or  cooked  with  sugar. 

Mush,  hominy,  wheaten  grits,  or  some  dish  of  that  sort,  should 
be  frequently  seen  upon  the  breakfast  table,  such  food  is  excellent 
for  children,  and  soon  becomes  very  palatable,  and  highly  esteem- 
ed by  grown  persons.  Moreover  if  it  is  not  eaten  when  first  boil- 
ed, it  is  not  wasted ;  it  is  just  as  good  fried,  or  used  as  a  basis  for 
griddle  cakes. 

h\  some  families,  warm  soda  biscuit  for  breakfast,  is  the  regular 
thing ;  this   is  very    hurtful.     Good  home-made  bread,  not  quite 
fresh,  is  best.     French   bread,   baked  the  day  before,  next   best; 
11* 


250  BREAKFAST. 

good  baker's  twist,  third  best.  For  a  change,  warm  corn  bread, 
or  johnny  cake  may  be  made  for  breakfast,  rice  cakes,  or  waffles, 
and  if  biscuits,  make  them  from  the  light  dough  mixed  over  night, 
shortened  with  a  little  butter. 

When  the  spring  water-cresses  come  in,  there  should  be  thank 
fulness,     rile  them  up  fresh,  green,  and  crisp,  upon  a  dish  in  the 
centre  of  the  table,  and  eat  them  with  new  laid  eggs  boiled  soft, 
gait,  nice  Graham  bread,  and  sweet  butter.     This  is  a  breakfast 
fiuitcd  to  Lent,  and  fit  for  a  Republican  queen. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

1.  Broiled  chicken,  toast,  omelette,  and  Guava  jelly, 

2.  Broiled  mutton  chops,  stewed  tomatoes,  fried  potatoes,  and 
Graham  drop  biscuit. 

3.  Broiled  ham,  corn  bread,  sliced  tomatoes,  and  toast,  or  bread. 

4.  Fried  ham  and  eggs,  stewed  apples,  hominy,  and  home-made 
bread. 

5    Broiled  lamb  chops,  rice  cakes,  warmed  over  potatoes,  and 
marmalade. 

^      6.  Boiled  No.  1  mackerel,  potatoes  warmed  up  with  butter  and 
milk,  sliced  tomatoes,  and  Johnny  cake. 

7.  Fresh   eggs   cooked   soft,  fried  potatoes,  bread,  and  stewed 
peaches. 

8.  (Lent.)  Soft  boiled  eggs,  water-cresses,  and  Graham  bread 

9.  Fried  halibut,  potatoes,  salad,  and  French  bread. 

10.  Beef  hash,  corn  bread,  stewed  tomatoes,  and  toast. 


BREAKFAST.  251 

11.  Minced  veal,  toast,  rice,  waffles,  and  sliced  oranges. 

12.  Cold  roast  veal,  fried  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  and  raised  bis- 
cuit. 

13.  Broiled  lamb  chops,  hominy  cakes,  tomatoes,  twist  bread. 

14.  Indian  slapjacks,   pork  chops  cut   thin,   and  fried  brown, 
fried  apples,  and  Graham  bread. 

15.  {Easier    Sunday  Morning.)      Fresh    eggs  boiled,  French 
bread,  and  Guava  jelly. 

16.  Broiled  salmon,  potatoes,   baker''s  twist,  and  stewed   cher- 
ries. 

17.  Broiled  shad,  fried  hominy,  potatoes,  and  salad  of  water- 
cresses. 

18.  Fried  Indian  mush,  ham  broiled  very  thin,  poached  eggs. 

19.  Broiled  partridge,  toast,  rice  cakes,  and  cranberry  jelly. 

20.  Soused  shad,  fried  potatoes,  boiled  hominy,  and  butter-milk 
Graham  biscuit. 

21.  Broiled  mackerel,  fried  mashed  potato,  and  hoe  cake.  Plain 
lettuce  or  radishes. 

22.  Sausage  cakes  seasoned  with  sage,  potatoes  boiled  in  their 
skins,  and  **  mixed"  griddle  cakes. 

23.  Minced  chicken,  rice  waffles,  boiled  eggs,  potatoes  warmed 
over  in  milk. 

24.  Veal  cutlets,  muffins,  and  fresh  strawberries. 

2o.  Fresh  mackerel,  stewed  gooseberries,  potatoes,  corn  bread. 


252  BREAKFAST. 

26.  Fried  blue-fish,  fried  hominy,  twist  bread,  huekleberrics. 

27.  Veal  sweet-bread,  toast,  tomatoes  sliced,  potatoes,  and 
fresh  peaches. 

28.  Fried  calves'  liver,  with  parsley,  and  thin  slices  of  bacon,  lit- 
ile  corn  cakes,  Graham  bread,  and  blackberries. 

29.  Cold  corned  beef,  cabbage  chopped  fine,  and  warmed  over 
with  vinegar  and  a  little  beef  fat.  French  bread,  and  boiled  Indian 
musb. 

Birthday  Breakfast, 

30.  Broiled  or  fricaseed  chicken,  and  cold  boiled  ham  garnished, 
or  chicken  pie  ornamented,  fried  potato  balls,  rice  currant  fritters, 
French  bread,  or  biscuit,  a  dish  of  fresh,  or  canned  fruit,  and  high 
glass  dish  of  fruit,  and  flowers  in  centre. 

31.  Nothing  in  the  shape  of  beverages  has  been  added,  because 
all  families  follow  their  habits  and  traditions  in  this  respect,  and 
also  with  regard  to  butter,  etc.,  and  the  addition  of  such  accus- 
tomed articles  in  every  instance,  would  be  entirely  superiiuous. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  Etc. 


COFFEE. 

It  is  better  to  buy  whole  coffee  and  grind  It  yourself.  Let  the 
coffee  pot  be  clean  and  free  from  the  smell  of  stale  coffee.  Grind 
sufficient  coffee  fresh  for  use  at  one  time,  then  stir  it  about  with 
the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg,  mixing  them  thoroughly.  Or  an  egg 
may  be  mixed  with  half  a  pound  of  ground  coffee,  which  is  to  be 
us^id  as  required,  and  the  egg  tends  to  preserve  the  aroma.  Take 
a  ^able-spoonful  of  coffee  or  less  for  each  person,  pour  upon  it  as 
much  boihng  water  as  will  be  required,  and  boil  it  up  as  quickly 
as  possible.  Pour  out  a  tea-cupful  and  put  it  back  again,  or  pour 
the  whole  backwards  and  forwards  several  times.  Take  it  from  the 
fire  and  pour  half  a  tea-cupful  of  quite  cold  water  into  it  and  let  it 
stand  five  minutes  by  the  fire ;  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again,  before 
you  transfer  it  to  the  coffee  pot  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Do  not 
shake  it  in  doing  this,  as  the  egg  shell  and  coffee  powder  will  have 
settled  at  the  bottom,  and  the  liquid  ought  to  be  perfectly  clear. 
A  little  isinglass  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  egg.  Many  insist 
that  It  Is  quite  unnecessary  to  use  the  egg  at  all.  Loaf  sugar  and 
boiled  milk  should  be  served  with  it,  allowing  each  person  to  suit 
their  own  taste. 

COFFEE   CREAM. 

Some  make  coffee  cream  by  boiling  three  cups  of  coffee  afler 
it  is  made,  with  a  pint  of  cream  and  sugar  to  taste,  until  they  are 
reduced  nearly  one  half,  and  so  serving  it. 

DINNER   COFFEE. 

Take  pure  Mocha  coffee,  one  table-spoonful  to  each  person, 
mix  with   egg  and  cold  water,  and  boil  perfectly  clear.     Serve 


254  COFFEE,    TEA,    ETC. 

without  milk,  but  with  loaf  sugar,  or  if  you  choose  with  burnt 
brandy,  and  sugar,  in  very  small  cups. 

COLD     COFFEE. 

Make  a  quart  of  good  coffee,  pour  it  off  clear,  and  add  to  it  a 
pint  of  new  milk,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  enough  loaf  sugar  to 
Bweeten  it.  Set  it  back  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  all  come  to  a  boil. 
This  will  be  delicious  cold,  or  it  is  good  warmed  up  next  day. 
Bottles  of  such  coffee  are  sometimes  useful  to  take  on  a  picnic. 
Use  the  best  lump,  or  coffee  crushed  sugar,  for  coffee,  coarse  brown 
tpoils  the  flavor. 

CHOCOLATE  (Americari) . 

Procure  the  best  chocolate,  grate  it,  allowing  two  heaping  table- 
spoonsful  to  a  quart  of  mixed  milk  and  water.  Boil  it  fifteen 
ininutes,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  serve  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE  (French), 

Break  the  chocolate  in  pieces,  boil  it  in  a  little  water,  stirring  all 
the  time,  then  add  double  the  quantity  of  milk,  and  allow  that  to 
boil  also,  stirring,  but  not  skimming,  until  it  has  boiled  up  thick 
for  several  minutes.  Add  loaf  sugar  to  taste,  and  serve  with  cream, 
or  new  milk  to  thin  it  off,  if  preferred. 

COCOA. 

To  make  good  cocoa  from  the  nibs,  it  should  be  boiled  for  three 
or  four  hours,  and  strained  when  it  is  taken  from  the  fire.  Should 
any  grease  rise  to  the  surface  after  this  it  must  be  removed  either 
■with  writing  paper,  or  by  skimmlug.  Sufficient  quantity  of  cocoa 
may  be  made  at  one  time  to  last  three  or  four  days,  as  it  will  re- 
main perfectly  good  for  that  time,  and  should  be  merely  boiled  up 
when  wanted  and  served  with  hot  milk.  In  boiling,  use  a  quart  of 
cold  water  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cocoa  nibs,  or  vary  according 
to  taste 

TEA. 

**  Tea,"  as  a  meal  is  a  lost  institution  m  most  of  our  large  cities. 


COFFEE,    TEA,    ETC.  255 

<* 
Morels  tlie  pity,  for  It  was  the  cosiest,  and  pleasantest  meal  of  the 
day.  Moreover,  with  it,  has  gone  out  early  hours,  and  thrifty 
habits,  attention  to  home  duties,  and  love  of  home  pleasures.  The 
late  breakfasts,  which  are  the  rule  now,  and  the  six  o'clock  dinners, 
not  only  destroy  health,  but  give  the  day  to  gossiping  and  visitmg 
to  shopping  and  the  promenade,  and  afford  an  excuse  for  daily  ex 
pensive  lunches  at  fashionable  restaurants,  which  make  simple  home 
fare  distasteful. 

**  Tea,"  in  the  old-fashioned  sense,  is  still  to  be  met  with  occas- 
ionally in  the  country,  and  who  that  has  ever  assisted  in  a  pleasant 
family  circle  at  that  most  enjoyable  of  all  meals,  but  remembers  it 
with  a  longing  to  experience  It  once  again.  The  cosy  table,  the 
light  delicate  food,  the  hot,  fragrant  beverage  in  small  cups,  han- 
dled tenderly,  as  if  with  a  due  appreciation  of  their  contents ;  the 
leisure  which  all  enjoy  after  the  principal  business  of  the  day  Is  over, 
and  the  stimulus  to  lively  and  agreeable  conversation,  which  the 
meal  affords. 

But  the  tea  itself  must  be  good;  no  luke  warm  Infusion,  no 
mere  slop,  by  quantity  of  which  you  seek  to  make  up  for  the  qual- 
ity. One  cup  of  really  good.  Inspiring  tea.  Is  worth  a  gallon  of 
the  liquid  which  well-intentioned  housewives  sometimes  pour  out, 
with  the  assurance  that  it  Is  not  strong,  and  will  not  hurt  you.  The 
truth  Is,  that  the  amount  of  liquid  is  a  positive  Injury,  while,  what- 
ever of  virtue  the  tea  possessed.  Is  drowned  In  it;  but  there  are 
persons  who  still  insist  upon  their  ancient  right  to  three  or  four 
cups,  and  perhaps  the  less  tea  there  is  in  these,  the  better. 

HOW   TO   MAKE   TEA. 

Scald  your  tea-pot  for  six  persons,  put  In  three  tea-spoonsful 
of  best  green  tea,  pour  a  little  boiling  water  upon  It,  and  set  It  to 
steep.  Put  four  tea-spoonsful  of  best  black  tea  in  a  tin  cup  with  a 
cover,  pour  cold  water  upon  it,  cover  it  tight,  and  bring  it  to  a  quick 
boil ;  let  it  boil  a  minute,  and  then  add  it  to  the  green,  which 
should  only  steep  in  boiling  water,  not  boil.  Fill  up  with  the  ne- 
cessar}  quantity  of  boiling  water,  and  It  is  ready  for  the  table. 

It  is  not  known  by  many  persons,  that  the  Oolong  and  other 
black  teas  require  boiling,  in  order  to  extract  their  strength  and 
virtue.  Those  who  mourn  over  poor,  weak,  modern  tea,  are  ad- 
vised to  try  this  method. 


PLAIN    BILLS  OF  FARE    FOR  DINNER  AIiL 
THE  YEAR  ROUND. 


JAmJARY. 

Roast  turkey,  celery,  cranberry  sauce,  boiled  onions,  m«ashed 
potatoes  browned,  mashed  turnips,  apples  and  nuts. 

Minced  turkey,  potatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets,  cranberry  sauce, 
currant  dumplings. 

Shank  end  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  boiled  with  rice,  mashed  pota- 
toes, pickled  beets,  and  mince  pie. 

Leg  of  mutton  boiled,  then  roasted,  with  caper  sauce,  mashed 
potatoes,  and  turnips,  stewed  tomatoes,  and  baked  apple  dump- 
lings. 

A  good  soup  made  from  leg  of  mutton  broth,  the  shank  bone, 
and  fresh  beef  bone,  with  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  vegetables ; 
mutton  sliced,  and  warmed  over,  roast  potatoes,  fried  parsnips, 
and  mince  pie. 

Fish  chowder,  plain  boiled  potatoes,  macaroni,  pickled  beets, 
and  boiled  apple  pudding. 

Company  Dinner, 

Vermicelli  soup,  boiled  turkey  stuffed  with  oysters,  roast  chick- 
en, boiled  ham,  cranberry  jelly,  celery,  fried  potatoes,  canned 
corn,  tomatoes,  stewed  parsnips,  cauliflower,  macaroni,  plum  pud- 
ding, nuts,  oranges,  and  raisins. 


BILLS    OF    FAKE    FOR    DINNER.  257 

FEBRUARY. 
Irish  stew,  fried  parsnips,  roast  potatoes,  pickles,  and  apple  pie. 

Boiled  corned  beef,  cabbage,  carrots,  mashed  turnips  and  pota- 
toes, rice,  and  raisins  with  sauce. 

Cold  corned  beef,  roast  potatoes,  macaroni,  fried  parsnips,  pick- 
led beets,  and  apple  pie. 

Broiled  mutton  chops,  potatoes  boiled  in  their  skins,  stewed  to- 
matoes, and  tapioca  pudding. 

Baked  pork,  and  beans,  and  boiled  codfish,  with  mashed  pota- 
toes, and  pickles,  apple  sauce.     Baked  apple  pudding. 

Roast  leg  of  mutton,  and  currant  jelly,  mashed  potatoes,  boiled 
onions,  fried  parsnips,  and  bread  currant  pudding. 

Stuffed  and  stewed  prairie  chickens,  stewed  tomatoes,  mashed 
canned  corn,  and  lemon  pie. 

Extra  Dinner, 

Tomato  soup,  boiled  sahnon  trout,  with  anchovy  sauce,  roast 
turkey,  cranberry  sauce,  canned  corn,  Lima  beans,  celery,  brown 
mashed  potatoes,  fried  oyster  plant  pickles,  bread  and  butter  pud- 
ding, apples,  oranges,  biscuits  and  French  coffee. 

Sunday  Dinner, 

Oyster  soup,  roast  ribs  of  beef,  cold  slaw,  succotash  of  corn 
and  Lima  beans,  mashed  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  and  apple  merin- 
gue pie. 

MARCH. 

Beef  a  la  mode,  from  the  upper  part  of  the  leg,  roast  potatoes 
bulled  parsnips,  stewed  cabbage  with  vinegar,  and  apple  fritters. 


258  BILLS    OF    FARE    FOK    DINNER. 

Soup  made  from   shin  of  beef,  and   split  peas,  bacon,  and  eab« 
bage,  boiled  potatoes,  pickles  and  apple  pie. 

Fillet  of  veal  larded,  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  apple  sauce  and 
'*  birdnest "  pudding. 

Knuckle  of  veal  stewed  with  rice,  fried  potatoes,  stewed  toma- 
toes and  mince  pie. 

Cold  beef,  roast  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  cold  slaw  and  **  Buf- 
falo "  pudding. 

Boiled  codfish  with  egg  sauce,  beef  hash,  mashed  potatoes,  cold 
slaw,  and  pumpkin  pie. 

Boiled  ham,  and  spinach,  lobster  salad,  plain  boiled  potatoes, 
and  rice  pudding. 

Sunday  Dinner. 

Baked  salmon  trout,  fricasseed  chickens,  mashed  potatoes,  salsi- 
fy, currant  jelly,  and  bread  and  butter  pudding. 

APRIL. 

Lamb  stew  with  potatoes  and  greens,  currant  dumplings. 

Veal  cutlets  with  bacon,  spinach,  mashed  potatoes,  sliced  fresh 
tomatoes,  and  Indian  pudding. 

Stuffed  and  baked  shad,  salad  of  early  lettuce,  boiled  rice  used 
as  a  vegetable  instead  of  potatoes,  lemon  pie. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce,  new  potatoes,  sliced  fresh  tomatoes, 
spinach  and  rhubarb  pie. 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton,  caper  sauce,  greens,  mashed  potatoes  an 
tapioca  pudding. 

Cold  leg  of  mutton,  with  salad  and  mashed  potatoes,  roly  poly 
pudding. 


BILLS    OF    FARE    FOR   DINNER.  259 

"Medley"  pie  made  of  a  few  scraps  of  cold  meat,  an  onion, 
apples,  sugar  and  spice,  fried  potatoes  and  rice  currant  fritters. 

Sunday  Dinner. 

Roast  chickens,  stewed  tomatoes,  new,  or  Bermuda  potatoes, 
spinach,  canned  corn,  and  lemon  meringue  pie. 

MAY. 

Roast  lamb,  green  peas,  mint  sauce,  spinach  and  potatoes,  rhu- 
barb batter  pudding. 

Boiled  blue  fish  with  parsley  sauce,  fried  potatoes,  lamb  cro^ 
quetteSf  or  balls  made  of  cold  meat,  done  up  with  an  egg,  etc.,  stew- 
ed tomatoes  and  bread  pudding. 

Irish  stew  of  mutton  with  greens,  and  baked  beans,  sliced  to- 
matoes and  currant  dumplings. 

Veal  pot  pie,  with  potatoes,  salad  and  rice,  and  raisins. 

Boiled  leg  of  lamb,  caper  sauce,  stewed  tomatoes,  mashed  po- 
tatoes, and  rhubarb  pie. 

Boiled  fresh  mackerel,  green  gooseberry  sauce,  hashed  lamb, 
mashed  potatoes,  and  rhubarb  dumplings. 

Stewed  pigeons,  with  thin  slices  of  fried  bacon,  spinach,  pota- 
toes, salad  and  lemon  pie 

Company  Dinner. 

White  soup,  olives,  baked  blue  fish,  salad,  fillet  of  veal  stuffed, 
and  roasted  Bermuda  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  spinach,  stewed  to- 
matoes, jelly,  and  kidney  beans,  custard  in  cups,  rhubarb  pie. 

JUa\E. 

Stewed  rabbit,  early  potatoes,  greens,  salad,  green  gooseberry 
pie. 


260  BILLS    OF    FARE    FOR    DINNER. 

Boiled  lamb  chops,  potatoes,  kidney  beans,  sliced  tomatoes,  and 
rhubarb  batter  pudding. 

Roast  leg  of  lamb,  potatoes,  asparagus,  and  sliced   tomatoes 
Blanc  mange  with  jelly. 

Stewed  mutton  with  rice,  early  potatoes,  salad,  gooseberry  pie. 

Veal  pot  pie,  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  and  rice  pudding. 

Roast  chickens,  jelly,  early  potatoes,  asparagus,  and  corn  starch 
pudding,  with  cream,  and  fresh  strawberries. 

Chowder  of  blue  fish,  with  potatoes,  shced  tomatoes,  cold  boiled 
ham,  and  fresh  currant  pio. 

JULY. 

Shoulder  of  veal  stuffed,  potatoes,  asparagus,  salad  and  straw- 
berry pie. 

Small  ribs  of  lamb  stewed  with  new  potatoes,  green  peas,  toma- 
toes, and  blackberry  batter  pudding. 

Boiled  ham,  with  potatoes,  spinach,   and  dessert  of  bread  and 
milk,  and  berries. 

Boiled  salmon  with  green  peas,  and  egg  sauce,  potatoes,  salad, 
and  strawberry  dumplings. 

Corned  beef,  early  cabbage  stewed  with  vinegar,  young  turnips, 
potatoes,  and  cherry  pie. 

Roast  beef,  potatoes,  asparagus,  Lima  beans,  Indian  corn,  toma- 
toes, and  green  apple  pie. 

Chops  cut  off  leg  of  mutton,  and  cooked  with  tomatoes,  pota- 
toes, kidney  beans,  and  cherry  batter  pudding. 


BILLS    OF    FARE    FOR    DINNER.  261 

Roast  leg  of  mutton,  green  peas,  stewed  tomatoes,  potatoes,  and 
huckleberry  pie. 

Extra  Dinner, 

Tomato  soup,  boiled  salmon,  with  anchovy  sauce,  salad,  roast 
lamb,  green  peas,  mint  sauce,  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  succo- 
tash of  Lima  beans  and  Indian  corn.  Ice  blanc  mange,  with 
pineapples,  and  open  currant  tart. 

AUGUST. 

Fillet  of  veal  larded,  new  potatoes,  stewed  tomatoes,  spinach, 
and  huckleberry  pudding. 

Cold  veal,  succotash  of  corn  and  string  beans,  potatoes,  salad, 
and  cherry  pie. 

Veal  pie,  stewed  tomatoes,  potatoes,  horseradish,  and  rice  dump, 
lings. 

Lamb  chops  with  tomato  sauce,  string  beans,  and  new  potatoes, 
huckleberry,  or  blackberry  pie. 

Cold  lamb,  potato  salad,  stewed  tomatoes,  green  corn  boiled, 
and  cherry  pudding 

Roast  leg  of  lamb,  mint  sauce,  new  potatoes,  new  mashed  turnips, 
salad,  green  peas,  and  currant,  or  gooseberry  pie. 

Dish  of  pickled  cod  with  melted  butter,  cold  boiled  ham,  potatoes, 
salad,  corn,  and  fresh  fruit  pie,  or  pudding. 

Stewed  pigeons,  lobster  salad,  potatoes,  asparagus,  currantjelly, 
Lima  beans,  currant,  and  custard  tarts. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Roast  prairie  chickens,  with  apple  sauce,  potatoes,  and  spinach ; 
corn  starch  pudding,  and  sliced  peaches. 


262  BILLS    OF   FARE    FOR   DINNER. 

Fillet  of  mutton  slightly  corned,  potatoes,  green  corn,  new  tur- 
nips, and  currant  jelly.     Bread  pudding. 

Cold  mutton,  mashed  potatoes  browned,  mashed  turnips,  salad, 
and  blackberry  puddmg,  *  *  Buffalo  "  style. 

Shank  end  of  leg  of  mutton  stewed  with  rice,  stewed  tomatoes, 
fiied  potatoes,  and  peach  pie. 

Sirloin  of  beef  roasted,  potatoes,  cauliflower,  succotash,  and 
tomato  salad.     Yorkshire  puddding. 

Cold  beef,  hot  potatoes,  salad,  or  pickles,  green  corn,  and  plum 
batter  pudding. 

Oyster  soup,  the  beef-bones  being  used  to  make  the  small 
amount  of  stock  necessary,  minced  beef  with  potatoes,  stewed  to- 
matoes, string  beans,  and  green  apple  pie. 

Birthday  Dinner, 

Oyster  pie,  roast  chicken  with  jelly,  potatoes,  corn,  Lima  beans, 
salad,  bread  and  butter,  puddmg,  and  dish  of  fresh  pears,  peaches, 
plums,  etc.,  arranged  with  leaves,  and  flowers. 


OCTOBER 

Mutton  chops,  with  mushroom  s^uce,  potatoes,  succotash,  and 
lemon  meringue  pie. 

Boiled  mutton,  caper  sauce,  mashed  turnips,  potatoes,  sliced  to- 
matoes, or  stewed  ;  any  rice  pudding. 

Broiled  beef  steak,  baked  potatoes,  tomatoes,  and  baked  apple 
dumplings. 

Irish  (mutton)  stew,  with  dish  of  rice,  as  vegetables,  tomafoe«, 
and  fresh  apple  pie 


BILLS    OF   FARE    FOR   DINNER.  263 

Vegetable  soup,  chowder  made  of  haddock,  potatoes,  salad,  and 
currant  dumplings. 

Corned  beef,  cabbage,  potatoes,  turnips,  carrot,  and  stewed  beets, 
Tapioca  apple  pudding. 

Tomato  soup,  alamode  beef,  stewed  cabbage,  potatoes,  Lima 
beans,  celery,  and  baked  rice  pudding,  with  fruit. 


NOVEMBER. 

Stewed  rabbit,  with  dish  of  pork  and  beans,  boiled  onions,  po- 
tatoes, and  pickles.     Apple  pie. 

Roast  haunch  of  mutton,  mashed  white  turnips,  potatoes,  and 
jelly.     Pancakes  with  jelly. 

Chicken  pot-pie,   mashed  potatoes,  celery,  pickled  cauliflower, 
and  squash  or  pumpkin  pie. 

Ox  tail  soup,  soused  fish,  cold  beans,  hot  potatoes,  pickles,  and 
English  roll  pudding. 

Beef  stew,  mashed  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  pickled  beets,  and 
baked  apple  pudding. 

Roast  chickens,  mashed  potatoes,  cold  slaw,  egg  plant,  fried  in 
butter,  stewed  tomatoes,  and  bread  pudding. 


Thanksgiving  Dinner, 

Oyster  soup,  cod,  with  egg  sauce,  lobster  salad,  roast  turkey, 
cranberry  sauce,  mixed  pickles,  mangoes,  pickled  peaches,  cold 
slaw,  and  celery ;  boiled  ham,  chicken  pie  ornamented,  jelly,  mash- 
ed potatoes  browned,  tomatoes,  boiled  onions,  canned  corn,  sweet 
potatoes,  roasted  broccoli.  Mince,  and  pumpkin  pie,  apple  tarts, 
Indian  pudding.     Apples,  nuts,  and  raisins. 


i!64  BILLS    OF    FARE    FOR    DINNER. 


DECEMBER. 

Spare  rib  of  pork,  mashed  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  and  baked 
apple  dumplings. 

llibs  of  beef,  boned  and  stuffed,  potatoes,  boiled  onions,  fried 
parsnips,  and  pickled  cabbage ;  pumpkin  pie. 

Soup,  broiled  chops,  mashed  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  and  boiled 
rice,  with  raisins. 

Soup  meat,  made  into  a  stew  with  vegetables,  and  stock  spice 
and  sweet  herbs,  Indian  dumplings,  potatoes,  and  apple  pie. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  jelly,  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  parsnips, 
salsify,  or  vegetable  oyster,  celery,  mince  pie,  and  apples. 

Young  goose,  with  onion  stuffing,  par-boiled,  then  roasted, 
mashed  potatoes,  apple  sauce,  broccoli,  and  apple  pie,  with  cheese. 

Cold  fowl,  cold  boiled  ham,  roast  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  mac- 
caroni,  cranberry  sauce,  or  pickles,  and  mince  pie  with  cheese. 

Christmas  Dinner. 

Mock  turtle  soup,  salmon,  or  baked  trout,  with  anchovy  sauce. 
Roast  turkey  with  necklace  of  sausages,  cranberry  sauce,  boilec 
fowls  stuffed,  with  mushrooms,  bread  sauce.  Boiled  ham,  apple 
sauce,  mashed  potatoes,  potato  balls,  boiled  onions,  egg  plant 
fried  in  batter,  Lima  beans,  and  stewed  tomatoes  ;  oyster  fritters, 
oysters  vol  a  vent,  celery  and  pickles. 

Dessert,  Christmas  plum  pudding,  lemon  cheese  cakes,  tipsy 
cake,  champagne  jelly,  apples,  nuts,  raisins,  and  grapes. 


WINES  AND  DRINKS- 


CURRANT  CHAMPAGNE. 

Ingredients  for  thirty  gallons  :  — Three  bushels,  or  one  hundred 
and  fifty  pounds  of  currants,  seventy-five  pounds  of  white  Havanna 
or  refined  crushed  sugar;  three  pints  white  brandy,  with  suffi- 
cient pure  soft  water.  The  fruit  should  be  gathered  in  dry 
weather,  when  ripe ;  inash  them  to  break  every  berry,  but  not 
bruise  the  stems ;  add  a  portion  of  the  water,  and  after  stirring 
well,  turn  the  mass  on  to  a  strainer,  over  a  grain  sieve,  or  riddle, 
rubbing  and  pressing  very  gently  with  the  hands.  The  usual 
practice  of  squeezing  and  wringing  through  the  strainer  forces 
through  too  much  pulp,  occasioning  too  great  a  degree  of  fermen- 
tation. The  sugar  should  be  put  into  a. tub  or  other  open  vesscL 
with  the  brandy,  and  the  liquor  strained  on  to  it.  When  the  su- 
gar is  dissolved,  strain  the  whole  through  a  fine  hair,  or  grass 
cloth,  into  a  strong,  sweet  cask  of  thirty-two  gallons,  and  fill  up 
to  within  two  gallons,  which  leaves  sufficient  room  for  the  fermen- 
tation to  proceed,  and  drive  in  the  bung  tight.  It  is  desirable 
that  all  parts  of  the  process  should  go  on  at  the  same  time,  and  be 
finished  with  all  possible  dispatch.  The  sooner  the  wine  is  bottled 
after  it  is  perfectly  fine,  the  more  briskness  it  will  exhibit.  In 
producing  champagne,  it  is  necessary  to  give  air  for  a  short  time, 
to  increase  the  fermentation  and  deprive  it  of  a  great  portion  of 
its  sweetness.  The  white  currant  is  sweeter,  and  pleasanter  fla- 
vored, when  ripe,  for  table  use,  than  the  red.  The  wine  made 
from  it  is  nearly  colorless,  of  sweet  and  pleasant  flavor.  Bottled 
before  the  fermentation  has  entirely  subsided,  it  makes  a  fine 
champagne. 

12 


266  WINES    AND    DRINKS. 


CURRANT   WINE. 

Bruise  ripe  currants  stripped  from  the  stem,  and  add  to  every 
gallon  of  pulp,  half  a  gallon  of  water,  first  boiled  and  cold ;  let  it 
remain  in  a  tub  twenty-four  hours  to  ferment;  strain  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  not  pressing  it  with  the  hand,  but  letting  it  take  its 
time  to  run.  Then  stir  well  in  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  white  su- 
gar to  every  gallon  of  liquor.  Add  a  quart  of  best  rectified  spirit 
of  wine  to  every  six  gallons.  After  it  has  stood  six  weeks,  bottle 
it.  If  it  is  not  very  fine  empty  it  into  other  bottles,  let  it  stand 
two  weeks  and  then  rack  it  off  into  smaller  bottles. 

BLACK   CURRANT   WINE. 

Put  the  currants,  after  picking  out  the  stems  and  leaves,  into  an 
open  vessel,  and  cover  them  with  water,  keeping  an  account  of  the 
amount ;  then  with  a  pestle  or  pounder  mash  every  berry  ;  let  them 
stand  for  twenty-four  hours  to  dissolve  the  pulp,  then  put  the  mass 
into  a  coarse  bag  and  submit  them  to  pressure,  when  the  juice  will 
run  freely.  After  deducting  the  amount  of  water,  the  remainder 
will  be  the  pure  juice ;  and  now,  to  every  gallon  of  the  juice  add 
two  of  water,  including  that  first  put  in,  and  to  every  gallon  of  the 
mixture,  add  four  pounds  of  crushed  sugar.  Put  it  into  a  cask, 
reserving  sufficient  to  fill  up  while  fermenting.  Put  the  cask  in  a 
moderately  cool  dry  room  to  ferment ;  as  the  refuse  works  at  the 
bung;  fill  up  with  the  liquor  reserved.  When  it  has  ceased  work- 
ing, bung  it  close  for  nine  months,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  bottling 
and  use.  This  will  have  much  of  the  flavor  of  Port  wine,  and 
make  an  excellent  article  for  sacramental  purposes.  By  reducing 
the  quantity  of  sugar  and  adding  water,  it  will  be  a  fair  imitation 
of  claret  wine,  for  a  summer  drink. 

GRAPE   SYRUP. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems,  and  to  every  four  pounds  of 
-grapes,  add  a  pint  of  water.  Set  them  over  a  moderate  fire  till 
the  grapes  are  well  boiled,  keeping  the  pan,  which  should  be  block 
tin  or  brass,  covered ;  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  gently  pressing: 
the  grapes ;  when  cool,  cover  it  with  a  plate  and  Int  it  remain  tlH 
the  next  day  in  either  wood,  or  an  earthen  vessel.     Then  carefuS 


WINES    AND    DRINKS.  267 

;j  clear  it  off,  and  to  each  pint  allow  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  brok- 
en, put  the  sugar  into  a  pan,  adding  a  pint  of  water  to  every  four 
pounds ;  stir  it  while  cold  till  the  sugar  is  partly  dissolved  ;  then 
put  it  on  a  moderately  brisk  fire  with  the  pan  covered,  stirring  it 
often  till  nearly  boiling ;  watch  it  carefully  that  it  may  not  rise 
too  much ;  let  it  boil  up  several  times,  skim  it  off  quite  clean, 
then  pour  in  the  juice,  cover  the  pan  until  it  nearly  boils  ;  remove 
the  cover  and  let  the  syrup  boil  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  it  well. 
Four  the  syrup  into  a  stone  jar,  with  a  little  grated  lemon,  or  a 
few  pieces  of  broken  cinnamon,  and  let  it  remain  one  day.  Then 
strain  it  into  bottles,  cork,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  This  is 
recommended  as  an  unalcoholic  wine. 

GRAPE    WINE. — 1. 

Crush  five  gallons  of  ripe  grapes,  and  let  them  soak  seven  days 
in  four  and  a  half  gallons  of  soft  water ;  add  to  it  seventeen  and 
a  half  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Strain  it,  put  it  into  a  clean  cask, 
leave  it  open  until  fermentation  ceases,  then  bung  tightly. 

GRAPE   WINE. — 2. 

Gather  the  grapes  when  they  are  just  turning  color,  or  about 
half  ripe.  Pound  them  in  a  tub  with  the  stalks,  and  to  every 
quart  of  pounded  fruit,  put  two  quarts  of  water.  Let  this  stan<3 
in  a  mash  tub  fourteen  days,  then  draw  it  off,  and  to  every  gallon 
of  liquor  put  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  when  this  is  dissolved, 
cask  the  wine.  After  it  has  worked,  bung  it  securely  down,  and 
keep  it  for  six  months ;  then  bottle  it,  and  tie  down  or  wire  the 
corks,  if  it  be  intended  to  be  kept  more  than  one  year. 

ELDER    WINE. 

Take  the  juice  of  three  gallons  of  elder  berries,  which  will 
about  equal  six  quarts.  Add  twenty-four  pounds  of  sugar,  and 
wash  the  husks  of  the  berries,  in  sixteen  quarts  of  water.  Boil 
six  ounces  of  ginger  in  water,  strain  and  boil  a  second  time.  Add 
this  and  the  juice  of  the  berries,  to  the  water  In  which  the  huskf 
have  been  washed.  Cask  it,  and  when  the  fermentation  is  ovor 
put  into  the  cask  some  well-dried  spices. 


268  WINES    AND   DRINKS, 


ELDER    FLOWER   WINE. 


Allow  a  gallon  of  water,  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  every 
quart  of  the  blossoms  stripped  from  the  stalks,  boil  and  skim  the 
sugar  and  water,  and  pour  it  over  the  flowers  boiling  hot.  To 
every  gallon  of  the  liquor  add  a  small  table-spoonful  of  home- 
brewed hop  yeast,  and  the  jui^e  of  a  lemon ;  stir  it  thoroughly  to- 
gether. Let  the  wliole  ferment  for  three  days  in  an  open  vessel 
of  wood  or  earthen,  the  top  entirely  covered  with  a  thick  woolen 
blanket.  At  the  end  of  three  days,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  and 
whisk  the  white  of  an  e^^  beaten  to  a  froth,  through  the  wine. 
Put  at  the  bottom  of  the  cask  chopped  raisins,  in  the  proportion 
of  three  or  four  pounds  to  every  six  gallons  of  wine,  pour  in  the 
wine,  and  close  the  bung.     In  six  months  it  will  be  fit  to  bottle. 

RLACKBERRY   WINE. 

First  pour  boiling  water  on  the  fruit  and  when  cool,  bruise  it. 
Let  it  stand  until  the  berries  rise  to  the  top :  then  drain  off  the 
clear  liquor,  measure  it  and  add  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  every 
gallon  of  liquor ;  stir  it  well  and  let  it  stand  open  a  week  or  ten 
days,  then  draw  off  the  wine  and  pan  it  through  a  jelly-bag.  Take 
half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  for  every  three  gallons,  dissolve  it  in  a 
little  of  the  wine  and  mix  it  through  the  whole. 

RHUBARB   WINE. 

Chop  the  stalks,  and  for  fifty  pounds  of  rhubarb,  allow  thirty 
pounds  of  sugar ;  press  the  juice,  add  the  sugar  and  enough  water 
Xor  nine  gallons  of  wine  ;  put  it  into  a  cask,  cover  It  with  a  cloth 
until  it  ceases  to  ferment ;  plug  the  barrel  for  three  months,  then 
bottle  the  wine,  or  if  this  is  not  convenient  draw  it  off  into  a  clean 
cask  that  it  will  fill  completely. 

GOOSEBERRY   WINE. 

Take  a  quantity  of  ripe,  white  or  yellow  gooseberries,  bruise 
them  with  a  pestle  in  a  tub,  and  to  every  eight  pounds  of  fruit  add  one 
gallon  of  cold  spring  water.  Stir  them  and  lot  them  stand  twenty- 
four  hours;  then  strain  the  mash  through  a  fine  sieve  or  a  grass 
cloth  strainer      To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  four  pounds  of  white 


WINES    ANI3    DRINKS.  2G9 

loaf  sugar.  When  all  is  dissolved,  stir  it  well,  and  when  settled  put 
it  into  a  cask  with  two  quarts  of  brandy  to  every  ten  gallons  of  juice 
and  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass.  Set  the  cask  in  a  cool  place,  leav- 
ing out  the  bung  until  the  feruientation  has  nearly  ceased.  Then 
draw  off  into  bottles,  and  cork  tight  immediately. 

GREEN    GOOSEBERRY    WINE. 

Having  thoroughly  bruised  eight  gallons  of  green  gooseberries, 
put  them  into  eight  gallons  of  cold  water,  and  allow  them  to  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours  ;  at  the  end  of  that  time  drain  the  liquor 
well  off  through  a  sieve,  and  for  each  gallon  add  three  pounds  and 
a  half  of  loaf  sugar;  pour  the  liquor  into  a  cask  and  put  to  it  one 
quart  of  the  best  gin.  After  standing  for  six  months  it  will  be 
ready  for  bottling. 

GINGER  WINE. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  nearly  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 
two  lemons,  and  two  ounces  of  ginger,  bruised.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  for  half  an  hour,  skimming  it,  then  pour  it  on  the  rinds 
of  the  lemons  and  the  ginger.  When  the  liquor  is  milk  warm, 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  and  put  in  it  a  little  yeast  at 
the  same  time.  Let  it  work  for  two  or  three  days,  then  put  it  in- 
to a  cask  closely  stopped  for  six  weeks.  Bottle  it  with  one  gallon 
of  brandy  to  twelve  gallons  of  wine.  The  pulp  of  the  ginger  and 
lemons  must  be  put  into  the  cask  with  a  little  isinglass,  to  refine  the 
wine ;  but  the  pips  and  white  part  of  the  lemons  should  be  remov- 
ed, as  they  make  it  bitter. 

BLACKBERRY   BRANDY. 

Bottle  equal  quantities  of  blackberry  juice  and  brandy,  allowing 
a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  every  gallon.  Or,  a  gallon  of  black- 
berries can  be  put  to  each  gallon  of  deodorized  pure  spirits,  and 
the  berries  dissolved  in  the  spirits.  These  are  very  good  for  bowel 
complaints. 

CHERRY   BRANDY. 

Crush  cherries,  and  allow  one  quart  to  eye7y  gallon  of  spirits. 
Wild  cherries  are  the  proper  ones  to  be  used.  Rum,  brandy,  oi 
deodorized  pure  spirits  can  be  used. 


270  WINES    AND    DRINKS. 


RASPBERRY   SYRUP. 

Add  one  quart  of  vinegar  to  three  quarts  of  berries,  let  it  stand 
one  day  then  squeeze  it  through  a  cloth.  Add  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  each  pint  of  juice  and  boil  it  twenty  minutes. 

HOP   BEER. 

To  make  fifteen  gallons,  take  twelve  ounces  of  hops,  six  quarta 
of  molasses,  ten  eggs.  Put  the  hops  in  a  bag,  and  boil  them  fifteen 
minutes  in  three  pails-full  of  water.  Put  in  the  molasses  while  hot, 
and  pour  immediately  into  a  strong  ale  cask  which  can  be  made 
perfectly  air  tight,  and  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  water  cold.  Let 
the  mixture  stand  until  cool,  and  then  add  the  eg^.  This  beer  will 
not  ferment  in  cold  weather  unless  put  in  quite  a  warm  place.  It 
will  keep  six  or  eight  months.  Three  months  after  it  is  fermented 
it  is  almost  equal  to  ale. 

GINGER   BEER 

Stir  up  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one 
ounce  and  a  half  of  the  best  ginger  bruised,  and  one  ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar,  or,  if  preferred,  a  lemon  sliced,  until  the  heat  falls 
to  that  of  new  milk.  Then  having  poured  one  table-spoonful  of 
good  yeast  upon  a  piece  of  bread,  put  it  in  the  middle  of  the  vessel 
letting  it  float  in  the  mixture.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  cloth,  and 
let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  after  which,  strain  it  and  put  it  into 
bottles,  filling  each  only  about  three  parts  full,  cork  them  tightly, 
and  tie  them  down.  In  warm  weather  this  ginger  beer  will  be 
ready  to  drink  in  two  days. 

TO   MAKE   A   CASK   OF    GINGER   BEER. 

Take  ten  gallons  of  soft  water,  and  fifteen  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 
clarified  with  the  whites  of  six  egg>'  ;  bruise  half  pound  of  white 
ginger;  boil  half  an  hour.  Pare  off  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  twelve 
lemons,  and  pour  the  liquor  when  it  is  boiling,  over  the  lemon 
peel.  As  soon  as  it  is  cool,  mix  a  gill  of  good  yeast  with  it,^  and 
put  it  in  a  cask.  Retain  two  quarts  of  the  liquor,  in  which  dissolve 
two  ounces  of  shred  isinglass ;  mix  it  with  the  wine,  and  shake 
well.     Let  the  cask  stand  open  all  night ;  then  close  the  bung, 


WINES    AND    DRINKS.  271 

and  in  three  weeks  bottle  it  off.     It  will  be   fit  to  drink  In  throe 
months. 

SPRUCE   BEER. — 1. 

Water  ten  gallons  ;  sugar  ten  pounds  ;  essence  of  spruce  quar 
ter  of  a  pound  ;  yeast  hall'  ^uit.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and  essence 
of  spruje  in  the  water,  previously  wanned ;  then  allow  it  to  cool 
a  little,  and  add  the  yeast  as  in  making  ginger  beer;  bottle  imme- 
diately in  half  pint  bottles. 

SPHUCE    BEER. — 2. 

To  a  gallon  of  water,  allow  an  ounce  of  hops  and  a  spoonfid  of 
ginger.  Boil  it  well,  strain  It,  and  add  a  pint  of  molasses  and  half 
an  ounce  of  the  essence  of  spruce ;  let  it  cool,  pour  in  a  tea-cup  of 
yeast  and  put  it  into  a  clean  cask.  After  it  has  fermented  a  day  or 
two,  bottle  it. 


To  six  gallons  of  water,  add  six  quarts  of  strained  honey,  the 
yellow  rind  of  two  large  lemons,  pared  very  thin,  and  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beat  to  strong  froth.  Mix  and  boll  all  together 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  skimming  it  well.  Pour  into  a  tub. 
When  lukewarm,  add  three  table-spoonsful  of  good  fresh  yeast, 
cover  and  leave  it  to  ferment.  When  it  Is  well  worked,  pour  it 
into  a  barrel  with  lemon  peel  in  the  bottom,  and  let  it  stand  six 
months.     It  will  then  be  ready  to  bottle. 

SHRUB. 

Take  three  quarts  of  red  currant  juice,  three  quarts  of  good  rum, 
dissolve  in  it  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  stir  together  and  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag.    When  it  is  entirely  clear,  bottle  it. 

QUICK    BEER. 

Fourteen  quarts  of  cold  water,  one  quart  of  molasses,  one  quart  ^ 
of  hop  yeast  and  four  table-spoonsful  of  ginger;  mix  it  well,  strain 
thi  Dugh  a  fine   sieve  and  bottle  it  immediately.     In  twenty-four 
Lours  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 


272  WINES    AND    DRINKS. 


GINGER   POP. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  ore  ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon,  one  ounce  of  gin- 
ger, put  the  whole  into  a  pan,  and  pour  over  it  four  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water;  let  it  stand  till  lukewarm,  and  then  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  yeast.  When  it  has  ceased  ])oiling,  bottle  it  off  in  small 
soda  water  bottles  or  jars.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  twenty-four 
hours. 

IMPERIAL. 

Put  into  a  jug  that  will  contain  three  pints,  half  an  ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  rind  pared  very  thin ; 
pour  boiling  water  over  these,  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  When 
cold,  it  is  fit  for  use.  It  is  refreshing  and  wholesome  for  persons 
heated  from  the  weather,  or  feverish  from  indisposition. 

BERRY   DRINK. 

Put  two  quarts  of  ripe,  fresh  raspberries  into  a  stone  or  glazed 
vessel,  whose  glazing  will  not  be  affected  by  acids,  and  pour  on 
them  a  quart  of  good  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
and  then  strain  out  the  juice  and  vinegar.  To  each  pint  of  this, 
add  a  pound  of  pulverized  white  sugar,  and  put  it  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  to  boil  smartly  for  about  half  an  hour,  removing  all  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  When  cold,  bottle  and  seal.  Half  a  gill  of  this,  stir- 
red in  a  tumblerful  of  cold  water,  makes  a  delicious  drink.  Straw- 
berries, dewberries,  or  blackberries  can  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner, only  using  just  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  the  fruit.  Add 
no  alcohol.     With  bottles  well  sealed,  it  will  keep  two  years. 

YANKEE    CORN    DRINK. 

To  five  gallons  of  cold  water,  add  one  quart  of  sound  corn,  and 
two  quarts  of  molasses,  l^ut  it  into  a  keg,  shake  well,  and  in  two 
or  three  days  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  Bung  tight.  It  may  be  fla- 
vored with  essence  of  spruce  or  lemon.  The  corn  will  last  to  make 
five  or  six  brewings ;  if  it  becomes  sour,  add  n)ore  molasses  and 
water.     It  is  a  cheap  and  sim^jle  beer,  and  is  called  very  good. 

A   QUICK   DRINK. 

Take  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  small  bit  of  mint,  and  some  sugar  to 


WINES    AXD    DRINKS.  273 

taste ;  mix  together  in  a  large  tumbler,  add  some  pounded  ice, 
and  then  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  cider ;  drink  it  when  it  effervesces. 
Half  the  quantity  will  generally  be  found  enough,  or  the  ingredients 
may  be  divided  into  two  glasses,  unless  you  have  a  soda  water 
glass. 

MILK    LEMONADE. 

Put  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  six  fine  lemons,  the 
peel  of  three,  pared  very  thin,  two  vvine  glasses  of  syrup,  and  half 
a  pint  of  Maderia  or  Sherry  into  a  covered  vessel  and  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours.  Then  boil  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  pour  it  on  the 
mixture,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  until  clear.  It  makes  a 
refreshing  drink. 

PORTABLE   LEMONADE. 

Mix  strained  lemon  juice  to  loaf  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of 
four  large  lemons  to  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  or  as  much  as  it  will 
hold  in  solution.  Grate  the  rinds,  which  add  to  this.  Preserve  in 
a  close  jar,  or  large  mouthed  bottles.  Use  a  table-spoonful  for  a 
tumbler  of  water. 

FOURTH  OF  JULY  SHERRY  COBBLER. 

A  large  tumbler  two  thirds  full  of  pounded  ice ;  half  a  dozen 
strawberries,  a  few  fine  chips  from  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  a 
table-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar;  fill  with  fine  Sherry,  shake 
and  take  in  the  usual  way. 

EGG    NOG. 

To  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  add  six  table-spoonsful  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  quart  of  new  milk,  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy,  and  a 
pint  of  Maderia.  Beat  the  whites  up  separately,  and  stir  them 
through  the  mixture,  just  before  pouring  into  cup  glasses. 

STATEN    ISLAND    LEMONADE. 

Take  half  a  dozen   fresh  lemons,  and  half  a  dozen  smooth  Se- 
Tille  oranges,  and  rub  loaf  sugar  on  the   outside,  until   the  flavor- 
ing oil  is  all  extracted  from  the  rind  ;  roll  theui  soft,  press  out  the 
juice,  add  the  sugar  to  the  juice,  strain  off  the  seeds,  a  bcw   of 
12* 


274  *  WINES    AND    DRINKS. 

pounded  Ice,  a  pint  of  Sherry,  and  a  quart  of  water.     Shake  all 
together  very  thoroughly.     It  is  a  delicious  summer  drink. 

CLARET   PUNCH. 

A  pint  bottle  of  claret,  a  gill  of  French  brandy,  four  table 
spoonsful  of  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  and  thinly  cut  rind  of  a 
lemon,  a  lump  of  ice,  and  a  pint  of  water. 

A   COOL    CUP. 

Weigh  six  ounces  of  sugar  in  lumps,  and  extract  the  essence 
from  the  rind  of  a  large,  fresh  lemon  by  rubbing  them  upon  it, 
then  put  them  into  a  deep  jug,  and  add  the  strained  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  a  half.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  in  a  bottle 
of  good  cider,  and  three  large  wine-glasses  full  of  Sherry ;  add 
nearly  half  a  small  nutmeg,  lightly  grated,  and  serve  the  cup  with, 
or  without  some  sprigs  of  fresh  balm  or  borage  in  it.  If  cfosely 
covered  down,  and  placed  on  ice  for  a  short  time,  it  will  be  more 
agreeable  as  a  summer  beverage. 

MAY  DRINK.   {Oerman.') 

Put  into  a  large,  deep  jug  one  pint  of  light  white  wine,  to  two 
of  red,  and  dissolve  in  it  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  it  agreeably. 
Wipe  a  sound  China  orange,  cut  it  in  rather  thick  slices  without 
paring  it,  and  add  it  to  the  wine  ;  then  throw  in  some  small  bunches 
of  the  fragrant  little  plant,  called  woodruff,  cover  the  jar  close- 
ly to  exclude  the  air,  and  leave  it  until  the  following  day.  Lemon 
rind  can  be  used  instead  of  oranges.  Serve  this  to  May-day 
visitors. 

OXFORD   SWIG 

Put  into  a  bowl  a  pound  of  sugar,  pour  on  It  a  pint  of  warm 
beer,  grated  nutmeg,  and  some  ginger,  also  grated;  add  four 
glasses  of  sherry  and  five  pints  of  beer,  stir  it  well,  and  if  not 
sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  covered  up  four 
hours,  and  it  is  fit  for  use.  Sometimes  add  a  few  lumps  of  sugar 
rubbed  on  a  lemon  to  extract  the  flavor,  and  some  lemon  juice.  If 
the  lemon  rind  is  pared  very  thin,  without  any  of  the  white  skin 
left,  it  answers  better,  bv  giving  a  stronger  flavor  of  the  lemon. 


WINES    AND    DRINKS.  275 

Bottle  this  mixture,  and  in  a  few  days  it  will  be  In  a  state  of  effer- 
vescence. When  served  in  a  bowl  fresh  made,  add  some  bread 
toasted  very  crisp,  cut  in  narrow  strips. 

SACK    POSSET. 

Four  ounces  of  fine  brown  sugar,  a  pint  of  sweet  wine  or  sack, 
and  a  nutmeg ;  let  them  simmer  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  beat 
ten  eggs,  and  put  them  on  the  fire  to  warm  with  a  quart  of  milk, 
stir  them  one  way  to  prevent  curdling ;  when  cold  mix  all  together 
aud  put  it  on  the  fire  to  warm,  but  not  boil ;  serve  hot. 

CHRISTMAS    EGG    NOG. 

Take  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  six  table-spoonsful  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  and  beat  them  to  the  consistency  of  cream ;  to  this 
add  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  beat  well  together,  then  mix  one 
third  of  a  pint  of  good  Jamaica  rum,  and  a  wine  glass  of  brandy 
or  Madeira  wine ;  have  ready  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  them  into  the  above  mixture ;  when  this  is 
done,  stir  in  three  pints  of  good  rich  milk.     No  heat  is  used. 

MILK   PUNCH. 

Beat  up  two  eggs,  well  mix  them  with  a  quart  of  milk,  adding 
sugar,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  peel,  to  taste.  Boil  this  gently,  and 
stir  it  all  the  time  until  sufficiently  thick.  Remove  it  from  the  fire 
for  a  very  few  minutes,  then  add  to  it  a  full  gill  of  rum,  stirring  it 
all  the  time  it  is  being  poured  in. 

MILK   PUNCH    TO   KEEP. 

Pare  six  oranges  and  six  lemons,  as  thin  as  possible,  and  grate 
them  afterwards  to  extract  the  flavor.  Soak  the  peel  for  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  bottle  of  rum  or  brandy,  closely  stopped.  Squeeze 
the  fruit  on  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  add  to  it  four  quarts  of  wa- 
ter and  one  of  new  milk,  boiling  hot.  Stir  in  the  rum,  and  run  it 
through  a  jelly  bag  until  quite  clear,  then  bottle  and  cork  it  closely 
immediately. 

COLD   PUNCH. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  full  pint  of  cold  water  and  one  pound  and 


Zib  WIXES    AND    DRINKS. 

a  half  of  wlilto  sugar ;  let  it  bo  on  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Add  three  bottles  of  white  wine,  some  lemon  syrup,  and 
a  little  ginger,  let  it  get  hot,  but  not  boiling.  When  quite  hot, 
pour  half  a  bottle  of  fine  rum  into  it  and  immediately  take  it  off 
the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  punch  begins  to  cool,  it  must  be  bottled 
uid  well  corked.     It  will  keep  good  for  some  time. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


KEEPING   GRAPES. 


Pick  the  grapes  before  they  are  dead-ripe  and  when  j>erfectly 
dry ;  remove  all  the  defective  ones ;  wrap  each  bunch  well  in  old 
paper  or  cotton,  and  not  allow  more  than  two  layers  in  a  box ; 
place  in  a  cold,  dry  room  where  they  will  not  freeze. 

The  French  preserve  grapes  the  year  round,  by  coating  the  clus- 
ters with  lime.  The  bunches  are  picked  just  before  they  are  thor- 
oughly ripe,  and  dipped  in  lime  water  of  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  They  are  then  hung  up  to  remain.  The  lime  coating 
keeps  out  the  air,  and  checks  any  tendency  to  decay.  When  want- 
ted  for  the  table,  dip  the  clusters  into  warm  water  to  remove  the 
lime. 

In  preserving  grapes,  with  cotton,  they  are  sometimes  placed 
gently  between  layers  of  cotton  in  a  glass  or  earthen  ware  jar. 
The  jar  is  then  corked  down  and  the  corks  dipped  in  melted  resin, 
or  otherwise  rendered  air  tight. 

KEEPING   APPLES. 

Apples,  potatoes,  etc.,  are  well  preserved  in  barrels  and  boxes 
in  a  dry  cellar,  with  light  and  air  excluded,  and  the  temperature 
quite  cold  without  freezing.  Apples  are  sometimes  kept  excellent- 
ly in  river  sand  dried  in  an  oven,  placing  in  a  large  box  a  layer  of 
sand  and  a  layer  of  apples,  taking  care  that  the  apples  do  not  touch 
each  other. 

KEEPING  PEAS  FOP  WINTER  USE. 

Shell  the  peas,  throw  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  in 
it,  allow  them  to  boil  five  or  six  minutes.  Then  drain  in  a  colan- 
der and  afterwards  on  a  cloth  until  complete^ ly  dried.     Then  place 


278  MISCELLANEOUS. 

them  in  air  tight  bottles.  Some  place  them  into  wide  mouthed 
bottles,  not  quite  filling  them,  and  pour  in  fried  mutton  fat  so  as  to 
cover  them.  Then  cork  tightly,  securing  the  cork  with  resin  or 
with  a  bladder.  When  used  boil  them  until  tender  with  some  but- 
ter and  a  very  little  mint.  Another  method  is  after  they  are  dried 
as  above,  place  them  on  a  tin  or  earthen  diili  in  a  mild  oven  once 
or  twice  until  they  harden,  and  then  place  them  in  paper  bags  hung 
in  the  kitchen. 

KEEPING   CABBAGES. 

When  the  weather  becomes  frosty,  cut  them  off  near  the  head, 
and  carry  them  with  the  leaves  on,  to  a  dry  cellar.  Break  off  su- 
perfluous leaves,  and  pick  into  a  light  cask  or  box,  stems  upward, 
and  when  nearly  full,  cover  with  leaves.  Secure  the  box  or  barrel 
with  a  lid  against  rats. 

KEEPING   CABBAGES   IN   THE  COUNTRY. 

Take  up  the  cabbages  by  the  roots,  set  them  closely  together  In 
rows  np  to  the  head  in  soil,  roots  down,  the  same  as  it  grows ; 
drive  in  posts  at  the  corners  of  the  bed,  and  intermediate  spaces, 
if  necessary,  higher  on  one  side  than  the  other;  nail  strips  of  board 
or  lath  on  these  posts  ;  lay  upon  these  old  boards,  doors,  or  if  you 
have  notning  else,  bean  poles  and  corn  fodder,  so  that  the  roof 
will  be  clear  of  the  cabbages,  and  allow  the  air  to  circulate;  close 
up  the  sides  with  yard  or  garden  offal  of  any  kind,  and  the  cab- 
bages will  keep  all  winter,  fresh  and  green,  and  be  accessible  at 
all  times,  or  nearly  so,  the  frast  not  being  so  severe  under  this 
protection  as  in  exposed  places.  Exclude  moisture,  but  never 
mind  the  frost. 

KEEPING   MUSTARD. 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and 
pour  it  hot  upon  two  ounces  of  scraped  horseradish.  Closely  cover 
the  jar,  and  let  it  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain  it,  and  by  de- 
grees mix  it  with  flour  of  mustard.  Beat  them  well  together  for  a 
long  time,  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  the  proper  thickness. 
Put  it  into  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  cork  it  down  closely,  when  it 
will  keep  good  for  many  months. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  279 


TO    PRESERVE     PAINT. 


"Wash  white  paint  with  warm  water,  soap,  a  soft  liannel ;  do  not 
scrub  it  with  a  brush,  and  wipe  it  dry  with  a  large,  old  linen  cloth. 
This  will  keep  it  nice  for  years. 

TO    KEEP   LEMONS. 

Keep  them  in  cold  water,  changed  every  week.  This  also  adtla 
to  the  juice. 

TO   PRESERVE    PARSLEY   FRESH    AND   GREEN. 

Put  it  into  a  strong  pickle  of  salt  and  water,  boiling  hot,  and 
keep  for  use.  Or  it  is  good  for  soup,  stuffing,  etc.,  hung  up  ia 
bunches,  in  a  dry  attic  or  store-  room. 

TO   PRESERVE   MUSHROOMS 

Put  your  mushrooms,  cut  as  for  stewing,  Into  a  saucepan ;  stew 
till  all  the  liquor  is  drawn,  and  then  till  all  again  is  absorbed ;  and 
when  quite  dry,  put  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt.  After  it  has  boiled,  pour  into  sweet-meat  pots  the  sizes  that 
will  be  sufficient  for  a  dish,  and  well  cover  them  with  butter ;  and 
they  will  be,  when  warmed  up  and  well  finished  off  with  a  little 
white  sauce,  as  good  as  when  fresh  gathered. 

TO    KEEP   MEAT,    GAME,    OR   POULTRY,    IN   HOT   WEATHER. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  meat  a  day  or  two  longer,  and  there  is  danger 
of  its  being  effected  by  the  hot  weather,  sprinkle  roughly  pounded 
charcoal  over  it,  and  put  the  same  under  it ;  for  birds,  put  a  lump 
of  charcoal  in  the  inside,  and  sprinkle  the  breast,  and  under  the 
wings,  with  the  pounded  charcoal. 

TO   REMOVE   TAINT  FROM   MEAT   OR  POULTRY. 

Waoh  the  part  affected,  with  chloride  of  soda  first,  and  then  in 
fresh  water.  It  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible  after  being 
wet.  Broiling,  or  roasting,  is  the  best  way  to  cook  meats  that 
have  been  kept  a  httle  too  long.  If  salted,  wash  it  and  throw  away 
the  brine,  then  leave  it,  for  a  few  days  in  the  following  composition  : 
F?'esh  burnt  charcoal  powdered,  twelve  parts ;  common  salt  eleveu 


280  MISCELLANEOUS. 

parts,  saltpetre  four  parts.     Mix  and  use  the  same  as  common  salt 
Before  cooking  remove  the  black  color  with  clear  water. 

SNOW  AS  A  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  EGGS. 

In  making  pancakes  or  puddings,  snow  is  an  excellent  substitute 
for  eggs ;  two  table-spoonsful  of  snow  stirred  in  quickly  are  equal 
to  an  egg  in  puddings  or  pancakes  for  making  them  light.  It  is 
explained  by  the  fact  that  snow  contains  in  its  Hakes  much  atmos- 
pheric air,  which  is  set  free  as  it  melts. 

CORN  STARCH  INSTEAD  OF  EGGS. 

For  most  cakes  and  puddings,  for  which  eggs  are  used,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  or  maizena  will  be  found  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  one  egg, 

EGG   PAPER. 

Soft,  tough  paper  cut  to  fit  jars,  and  dipped  in  a  saucer  of  white  of 
egg,  put  over  steamed  jars  of  fruit  or  preserves,  will  keep  them  bet- 
ter than  all  the  late  inventions.  When  the  jars  and  fruit  are  scalded 
hot  as  possible,  it  will  keep  them  nicely.  For  jellies  and  all  kinds 
of  pickles,  it  makes  a  cheap,  convenient  cover.  The  paper  must 
turn  over  the  rim  of  the  jar. 

FROZEN    POTATOES. 

Frozen  potatoes  give  more  starch  or  flour  than  fresh  ones. 

SIZE   OF   TURNIPS. 

Small  sized  turnips  have  double  the  nutritious  matter  that  larger 
ones  have,  but  the  largest  rut  i  bagas  are  the  most  nutritious, 

TO   WASH    FRUIT    STAINS    FROM    THE    HANDS. 

Rub  them  with  sorrel,  rhubarb  stalks,  lemon,  apple  or  tomato 
skins. 

DAMP   WOOLEN    CLOTHING. 

Before  putting  damp  woolen  clothing  to  the  fire,  rub  it  with  a 
moist  sponge,  the  way  of  the  nap,  until  the  smoothness  Js  restored ; 
brushing  will  not  remove  the  roughness,  unless  this  precaution  i? 
taken. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  281 


DIAMOND   CEMENT. 

This  is  the  best  ce:ne  it  (or  l)roken  glass,  or  china,  because  it  is 
colorless,  and  perfectly  resists  uDistin'e.  It  requires  to  be  licjiii- 
fied  by  placing  the  vial  in  l)oiling  water,  and  should  then  be  Ap- 
j)lied  with  a  camel's  hair  brush. 

now    TO    PREVENT    THE   INROADS    OF    VERMIN. 

On  entering  a  new  house,  have  it  thoroughly  clean,  and  every  hole 
and  crevice,  in  cupboard,  closet,  or  room,  stopped  up  with  a  cement 
made  of  putty,  and  chloride  of  lime.  Before  putting  carpets,  or 
oil-cloth  down,  (lust  the  edges  of  the  boards  with  Lyons'*  or  Per- 
sian powder,  which  will  prevent  the  attacks  of  moths,  and  cock- 
roaches. A  dollar  spent  in  this  way,  will  be  found  an  excellent 
investment.  Repeat  the  process,  when  general  (leaning  time 
comes,  and  with  ordinary  precaution  in  cleaning  bedsteads,  and 
taking  care  of  furs,  you  will  never  be  troubled  with  bugs,  moths, 
or  cockroaches. 

lobster's   EGGS. 

Lobster's  eggs  boiled,  and  pounded  in  a  mortar,  constitute  a  per- 
fectly safe,  harmless,  and  beautiful  rouge. 

TO    STRENGTHEN    THE    HAIR. 

Dilute  an  ounce  of  borax,  and  an  ounce  of  camphor  in  two 
quarts  of  water,  and  wash  the  hair  thoroughly  twice  a  week,  clip- 
ping the  ends  occasionally.  It  will  quickly  grow  long,  thick,  and 
even. 

TO   CLEAR,  AND   STRENGTHEN   THE   VOICE. 

The  best  method  is  in  vogue  among  all  distinguished  vocalists 
viz :  swallow  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  wliole,  every  morning  on  ris 
ing;  abo  avoid  pastry,  and  sponge  the  throat  and  chest  well  with 
cold  water  daily. 

BUTTER   COOLER. 

A  simple  mode  of  keeping  butter  in  warm  weather,  where  ice  is 
not  bandy,  is,  to  pour  about  a  pint  of  water,  in  a  round  dish,  and 


282  MISCELLANEOUS. 

place  half  a  brick,  or  stone  the  size  of  half  a  brick,  in  the  waten 
and  put  the  platen  of  butter  upon  it,  then  invert  a  common  flowei 
pot  over  the  butter,  so  that  the  pot  will  set  down  in  the  water. 
Tlie  porousness  of  the  earthen  ware  will  keep  the  butter  cool, 
it  will  be  better  still  if  the  pot  be  covered  with  a  wet  cloth,  the 
rapid  abstraction  of  heat  by  external  evaporation  causing  the  but- 
ter to  become  hard. 

KITCHEN   ODORS. 

Odors  from  boiling  ham,  cabbage,  etc.,  may  be  prevented  by 
throwing  red  pepper  pods,  or  a  few  pieces  of  charcoal  into  the  pot. 

FRUIT   SINKING. 

To  prevent  fruit  from  sinking  in  puddings  or  cake,  roll  it  in  flour 
before  putting  it  in. 

COCHINEAL.  * 

In  using  cochineal  to  give  color,  they  may  be  broken  and  tied  up 
in  fine  muslin,  which  obviates  the  difficulty  of  getting  them  out 
when  the  color  is  given. 

IMPROVING   CORN  MEAL. 

Indian  meal  is  improved  by  being  kiln  dried.  It  may  be  spread 
on  a  dripping  pan  and  heated  In  the  oven. 

TO   MAKE   HENS   LAY  IN  WINTER. 

Keep  them  warm,  keep  corn  by  them  constantly,  but  do  not  feed 
it  to  them ;  feed  them  with  meat  scraps,  where  lard  or  tallow  has 
been  tried,  or  fresh  meat.  Some  chop  up  green  peppers  finely, 
and  feed  them.  Let  them  have  a  frequent  taste  of  green  food,  a 
little  gravel  and  lime,  or  clam  shells. 

TO    FATTEN   TURKEYS 

Every  morning  for  a  month,  give  them  mashed  potatoes  mixed 
with  buckwheat  flour,  barley  or  beans  ;  take  away  what  remains 
in  the  evening.  After  a  month,  add  half  a  dozen  balls  made  of 
barley  flour,  when  they  go  to  roost.  Give  them  these  eight  days 
baccessively ;  turkeys  thus  fed  are  fat  and  good. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  283 

HATCHING. 

Chickens  are  hatched  in  twenty-one  days  ;  turkeys,  twenty-six ; 
ducks  and  geese,  thirty  ;  pigeons,  eighteen. 

TO   CLARIFY   DRIPPING. 

Place  the  dripping  in  a  large  pan,  pour  on  about  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  pass  the  whole  through  a  muslin  or  a  sieve.  Let  it 
get  cold,  and  the  dripping  can  be  taken  out  in  a  cake ;  the  refuse 
being  at  the  bottom,  will  be  easily  scraped  off.  If  it  be  not  suffi- 
ciently clarified,  the  process  must  be  repeated. 

TO    CLARIFY   MOLASSES. 

Common  molasses  may  be  clarified  and  rendered  much  more 
palatable  by  heating  it  over  the  fire  and  pouring  in  sweet  milk,  in 
the  proportion  of  one  pint  to  a  gallon  of  molasses.  When  the 
molasses  boils  up  once,  the  albumen  in  the  milk  collects  all  the  im- 
purities in  a  thick  scum  upon  the  top,  which  must  be  carefully  re- 
moved, and  the  molasses  is  then  fit  for  use.  Bullock's  blood  is 
also  used  for  this  purpose,  but  milk  is  more  agreeable  in  many 
ways  for  domestic  use. 

HOME   MADE   BREAD. 

The  quantity  of  bread  is  greatly  increased  by  using  bran  water 
for  mixing  the  dough.  A  quart  of  bran  should  be  boiled  for  an 
hour  in  water,  and  then  strained  through  a  sieve. 

IVORY   HANDLES. 

Ivory  handles  should  not  be  wet  in  washing.  It  is  hard  to  re- 
move stains  from  ivory,  without,  at  the  same  time,  removing  the 
polish.  Muriatic  acid  removes  the  polish.  If  the  stain  arises  from 
ordinary  wear,  it  may  be  soaked  in  strong  lime  water,  and  after- 
wards exposed  to  the  air,  repeating  the  operation  until  it  becomes 
white.  It  should  not  be  exposed  to  the  sun,  or  it  will  crack.  A 
solution  of  muriatic  acid  will  remove  ink  stains ;  to  restore  the 
polish,  rub  wil,h  fine  putty  powder,  or  gilder's  whiting  till  the  pol- 
ish returns.  Another  method  to  remove  stains  from  ivory  handles 
is  to  take  alum  water,  boil  it  and  let  it  grow  cold.     Then  soak  the 


284  MISCELLANEOUS. 

handles  in  it  for  an  hour,  take  them  out  and  brush  them  well  with 
a  tooth  brush.  Dip  a  clean  towel  in  pure  water,  squeeze  it  out, 
and  while  wet  wrap  it  around  the  handles,  soaked  and  bruslied  as 
above,  and  leave  all  to  dry  gradually.  If  dried  too  rapidly  out 
of  the  alum  water,  the  handles  will  be  injured;  if  dried  slowly, 
they  will  become  white. 

TO  FASTEN  ICNIFE  HANDLES. 

Handles  of  knives  or  forks  that  have  come  off  by  being  put  in 
hot  water,  by  mixing  powdered  resin  with  chopped  hair  or  tow, 
chalk,  whiting  or  quick-lime;  partly  fill  the  hole  with  it,  heat  the 
spike  of  the  knife  or  fork  and  force  it  in.  Melted  resin  or  brick- 
dust,  mixed,  is  also  used.  Or  put  a  small  portion  of  a  quill  pen 
into  the  handle,  heat  the  blade,  put  it  in  the  quill  in  the  handle, 
and  press  it  in  firmly. 

TO  TAKE  OFF  STARCH  OR  RUST  FROM  FLAT  IRONS. 

Tie  a  piece  of  yellow  beeswax  in  a  rag,  and  when  the  h-on  19 
nearly  hot  enough  to  use,  rub  it  quickly  with  the  wax  and  then 
with  a  coarse  cloth. 

RUST   ON   STEEL  IMPLEMENTS,  OR   KNIVES. 

Cover  the  steel  with  sweet  oil,  well  rubbing  it  on.  Let  it  remain 
for  forty-eight  hours  and  then,  using  unslacked  lime  finely  powder- 
ed, rub  the  steel  until  all  the  rust  has  disappeared. 

ROUGH   FLAT   IRONS. 

Rub  them  with  fine  salt,  and  it  will  make  them  smooth. 

CRACKS   IN   STOVES. 

Ashes  and  common  salt  wet  and  mixed,  will  stop  the  cracks  in  a 
fltove  and  prevent  smoke  escaping. 

CEMENT  FOR  METAL    AND   GLASS. 

The  following  cement  will  firmly  attach  any  metallc  substance  tc 
glass  o-r  porcelain.  Mix  two  ounces  of  a  thick  solutirn  of  glue 
with  one  ounce  of  hnseed  oil  varnish,  or  three  fourtlis  of  an  ounce 
of  Venice  turpentine.    Boil  them  together,  stirring  them  until  the)> 


MISCELLANEOUS.  285 

mix  as  thoroughly  as  possible.     The  pieces  cemented  should  be 
tied  together  for  two  or  three  days  and  nights. 

POLISHING   PASTE. 

Cut  hah  a  pound  of  mottled  soap  into  pieces,  mix  with  half  a 
pound  of  rotten  stone  in  powder;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  mixture, — about  three  pints  ;  boil 
slowly  till  dissolved  to  a  paste. 

VARNITH  TO    PREVENT  RUST. 

Make  a  composition  of  fat,  oil  and  varnish,  mixed  with  four 
fifths  of  highly  rectified  spirits  of  turpentine.  Put  this  varnish  on 
metal  with  a  sponge. 

TO   PRESERVE   LAMP    CUIMNEYS   FROM    BREAKING. 

Place  a  cloth  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  pan,  fill  the  pan  with  cold 
water,  and  place  the  glass  into  it.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  its  con- 
tents boil  one  hour.  Take  it  off  the  fire  and  leave  the  glass  in  the 
water  until  it  is  cold. 

SOFT    SOAP. 

Slice  up  four  pounds  of  white  bar  soap  into  four  gallons  of  wa- 
ter, and  add  a  pound  of  sal  soda.  Mix,  dissolve  it  thoroughly 
over  the  fire,  and  set  aside  for  use.  A  smaller  quantity  can  be 
made  in  the  same  proportions. 

CREAKING   HINGES. 

Rub  the  hinges  with  a  very  little  soft  soap. 

ICE   ON   WINDOWS. 

Windows  may  be  kept  free  from  ice,  and  polished,  by  rubbing 
the  glass  with  alcohol,  with  a  brush  or  sponge. 

WATER   AND   FIRE    PROOF    CEMENT. 

A  cement  which  is  a  good  protection  against  weather,  water  and 
fire  to  a  certain  extent,  is  made  by  mixing  a  gallon  of  water  with 
two  gallons  of  brine,  in  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and 
three  pounds  of  common  salt.  Put  it  on  with  a  brush,  like  paint. 
A  smaller  quantity  can  be  made  in  the  same  proportions. 


286  MISCELLANEOUS. 


RAYS   OF   THE    SUN. 


The  rays  of  the  sun  may  be  kept  from  penetrating  a  window,  by 
applying  to  it  an  ounce  of  powdered  gum  tragacanth  in  tfhe  whites 
of  six  eggs,  well  beaten. 


FIRE   PROOF    CEMENT. 


Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  three  pounds  of  fine  salt,  one 
pound  of  alum  ;  mix  thoroughly,  put  on  like  white-wash,  on  roofs 
of  houses,  fences,  around  fire-places,  etc. 


WATER   PROOF    PASTE. 


Mix  oil  or  lard  with  fine  pieces  of  India  rubber,  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  until  thick  as  paste. 


FIRE   IN   THE    CHIMNEY. 


Salt  put  on  the  fire  in  the  grate  below,  acts  chemically  on  the 
flaming  soot  above,  and  will  often  extinguish  the  fire  in  a  short 
time  ;   or  shoot  a  gun  loaded  with  powder,  up  the  chimney. 

TO    DRIVE   NAILS. 

Common  cut  nails,  or  screws,  are  easily  driven  into  hard  wood, 
if  rubbed  with  a  little  soap,  either  hard  or  soft. 

TO   REMOVE    GREASE   FOR   PAINTING. 

Before  painting  greasy  furniture  or  a  greasy  partition,  white- 
wash it  over  night,  and  wash  all  you  can  of  the  white-wash  oflf  in 
tlie  morning.     This  removes  the  grease  for  painting. 

TO   CLEAN   MARBLE. 

Pulverize  a  little  stone  blue  with  four  ounces  of  whiting,  mix 
them  with  an  ounce  of  soda  dissolved  in  very  little  water  and  four 
ounces  of  soft  soap,  boil  the  mixture  quarter  of  an  hour  over  a 
slow  fire,  stirring  constantly  ;  lay  it  on  the  marble  with  a  brush  while 
hot,  and  let  it  lie  half  an  hour;  wash  it  in  warm  water  with  flannel 
and  scrubbing  brush,  and  wipe  it  dry. 

MARKS    ON    A    TABLE. 

To  remove  a  whitish  mark  left  by  a  hot  dish  or  boiling   water, 


MISCELLANEOUS.  287 

pour  lamp  oil  on,  and  rub  hard  with  a  soft  cloth,  Then  pour  on  a 
little  spirits  of  wine  or  cologne  water,  and  rub  dry  with  another 
cloth. 

FURNITURE. 

Beeswax  and  strong  lye  will  clean  and  polish  furniture. 

TO    GIVE   A   FIXE   COLOR   TO   MAHOGANY. 

Let  the  tables  be  washed  perfectly  clean  with  vinegar,  having 
first  taken  out  any  ink  stains  there  may  be,  with  spirits  of  salts. 
Use  the  following  liquid  : — Into  a  pint  of  cold-drawn  linseed  oil, 
put  four  penny-worth  of  alkanet  root,  and  two  penny  worth  of  rose 
pink,  in  an  earthen  vessel ;  let  it  remain  all  night,  then  stirring 
well,  rub  some  of  it  all  over  the  tables  with  a  linen  rag ;  when  it 
has  lain  some  time,  rub  it  bright  with  linen  cloths. 

TO    CLEAN    PAINT. 

Smear  a  piece  of  flannel  with  common  whiting,  mixed  to  the  con- 
sistency of  common  paste  in  warm  water.  Rub  the  surface  to  be 
cleaned  quite  briskly  and  wash  off  with  pure  cold  water.  Grease 
spots  and  other  filth  will  be  removed. 

SOILED   CARPETS^. 

Sprinkle  the  carpet  with  dry  Indian  meal  or  wheat  bran  and 
sweep  it  hard. 

SCOURING  FLOUR. 

A  pound  of  sofl  soap,  half  a  pound  of  soda  and  four  quarts  of 
water.  Boil  two  hours  and  stir  in  a  quart  of  silver  sand.  Use  a 
small  quantity  at  a  time  on  the  scrubbing  brush. 

CHEAP   PAINT. 

A  cheap  paint  for  a  barn  or  rough  woodwork,  may  be  made  of 
six  pounds  of  melted  pitch,  one  pint  of  linseed  oil,  and  one  pound 
of  brick  dust  or  yellow  ochre. 

APERED    WALLS. 

Rub  the  walls  with  a  cloth  sprinkled  with  Indian  meal.  Or  gent- 
ly sweep  off  the  dust  and  rub  with  soft  muslin  cloth. 


288  MISCELLANEOUS. 


TO    IRON    RIBBONS. 


II(  at  an  iron  not  too  hot,  turn  It  on  the  side  and  draw  the  wrong 
side  of  the  ribbons  over  it  quickly,  holding  them  firmly  to  the  iron. 

TO    STIFFEN    CRAPE. 

Hold  it  over  potatoes  or  rice  while  boiling,  and  let  it  dry  bv 
tfie  tire. 

lO    REMOVE    BROKEN    SPOTS   FROM    VELVET. 

Hold  the  wrong  side  of  the  velvet  over  steam,  and  while  damp 
draw  the  wrong  side  across  a  quite  clean  stove  pipe,  or  a  warm 
iron  several  times. 

TO  CLEAN  BLACK  LACE  VAILS. 

These  are  cleansed  by  passing  them  through  a  warm  liquor  of 
ox-gall  and  water,  after  which  they  must  be  rinsed  in  cold  water, 
then  finished  as  follows :  Take  a  small  [)iece  of  glue  about  the  size 
of  a  bean,  pour  boiling  water  upon  it,  which  will  dissolve  it,  and 
when  dissolved,  pass  the  vad  through  it,  then  clap  It  between  your 
hands  and  frame  it  or  pin  it  out,  taking  care  to  keep  the  edge 
straight  and  even. 

WATER   SPOTS   IN   BLACK   CRAPE. 

Clap  it  while  wet  until  dry.  Spread  the  spot  on  the  hand  damp- 
ening it.  If  It  has  previously  dried,  and  slap  it  with  the  other  till 
the  spots  disappear.   * 

TO    RENOVATE    BLACK    SILK. 

Sponge  It  with  clear  strong  cold  tea,  shake  it  out,  and  hang  it  up 
to  dry,  or  iron  it  while  damp.  Another  way  is,  rip  out  the  seams, 
rub  It  with  a  piece  of  crape,  then  put  it  .n  cold  water  twenty-four 
hours,  iron  it  with  a  hot  iron  on  the  wrong  side ;  be  careful  not  to 
wring  the  silk. 

TO   TAKE   OUT  MILDEW. 

Take  your  cloth  when  dry,  wet  thoroughly  with  soft  soap  and  salt, 
mixed.  Let  it  lie  a  short  time,  then  wash  it  in  a  good  suds  and 
lay  out  to  bleach.  If  one  operation  does  not  answer  two  will, 
and  the  linen  will  be  clear  and  clean  as  ever. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  289 


TO   TAKE   INK   OUT   OF   LINEN. 

Dip  the  portion  that  is  stained  in  pure  melted  tallow ;  then  wash 
out  the  tallow  and  the  ink  will  come  out  with  it.  Lemon  juice,  or 
any  acid  will  generally  take  out  any  stain.  Or  dip  the  part  stained 
in  cold  water,  fill  a  basin  with  boiling  water,  place  a  pewter  plate  on 
the  top,  lay  the  muslin  on  the  plate,  put  salts  of  lemon  or  tartaric 
acid  on  the  ink  spots,  rubbing  it  with  the  bowl  of  a  spoon,  the  spots 
will  disappear. 

WASHING    PRINT   OR    LAWN    DRESSES. 

Boil  a  quart  of  bran,  in  a  bag,  in  a  gallon  of  water  for  an  hour; 
take  out  the  bran  and  divide  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  put- 
ting one-half  to  one  gallon  of  warm  water,  in  which  the  dresses 
are  to  be  washed  the  first  time,  and  the  other  half  to  a  second  gal- 
lon, in  which  they  are  to  be  rinsed  or  washed  a  second  time ;  this 
process  needs  neither  soap  nor  starch,  and  makes  the  colors  and 
consistency  of  the  goods  precisely  the  same  as  when  new ;  the  ex- 
tract of  bran  cleans,  sufficiently  stiffens,  and  preserves  the  colors; 
dry  in  the  shade  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

TO    RESTORE   LINEN     THAT   HAS   LOXG    BEEN   STAINED. 

Rub  the  stains  on  each  side  with  wet,  brown  soap.  Mix  some 
starch  to  a  thick  paste  with  cold  water,  and  spread  it  over  the 
soaped  places.  Then  expose  the  linen  to  the  sun  and  air,  and  if 
the  stains  have  not  disappeared  in  three  or  four  days,  rub  off  the 
mixture,  and  repeat  the  process  with  fresh  soap  and  starch.  After- 
wards dry  it ;  wet  it  with  cold  water  and  put  it  in  the  wash. 

PAINT   SPOTS   ON   CLOTH,    SILK,    ETC. 

When  the  stain  is  not  yet  dried,  lay  the  cloth  on  a  number  of 
thicknesses  of  sheet,  rub  on  soap  with  a  tooth  brush,  then  dip  the 
brush  in  warm  water  and  wash  the  paint  away,  the  sheet  beneath 
absorbing  the  water.  Then  wash  the  brush,  dip  it  in  the  water, 
and  with  it  wash  the  soap  away.  Then  rub  both  sides  of  the  ma- 
terial with  a  dry  towel  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  If  the  paint  is  dry 
dip  a  piece  of  flannel  in  spirits  of  turpentine,  rub  the  stain  till  re- 
moved, then  wash  out  the  turpentine  quickly  with  soap  and  water, 
13 


290  MISCELLANEOUS. 

or  if  the  color  is  very  delicate  with  warm  water  alone,  or  the  tur- 
pentine will  leave  a  stain  of  itself.  Spots  of  paint,  or  of  pitch  or 
tar  anywhere,  may  be  removed  with  spirits  of  turpentine. 

WASHING   COLORED   MUSLINS. 

To  set  the  color  of  muslin,  pour  boiling  water  on  the  dress  be- 
fore washing,  and  allow  it  to  remain  till  quite  cold.  For  washing 
^reen  or  blue  musHn,  take  a  little  sugar  of  lead,  dissolve  it  in  a 
gallon  of  cold  w*ater,  dip  the  dress  in  it,  let  it  remain  quarter  of 
an  hour,  then  wring  it  out  and  send  it  to  be  washed.  Have  no 
shears  or  scratches  on  your  hand,  and  throw  the  water  away  im- 
mediately, for  the  sugar  of  lead  is  a  rank  poison. 

TO   CLEAN   SILK. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  a  tea-spoonful  of  bran- 
dy, and  a  pint  of  gin ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  strain  through  a 
cloth.  With  a  sponge  or  flannel,  spread  the  mixture  on  each  side 
of  the  silk  without  creasing  it ;  wash  it  in  two  or  three  waters,  and 
iron  it  on  the  wrong  side.  It  will  look  as  good  as  new,  and  the 
process  will  not  injure  silks  of  even  the  most  delicate  color. 

TO   CLEAN   KID    GLOVES. 

First  see  that  your  hands  are  clean,  then  put  on  your  gloves, 
and  wash  them  as  though  you  were  washing  your  hands,  in  a  basin 
of  turpentine  until  quite  clean ;  hang  them  up  in  a  warm  place,  or 
where  there  is  a  current  of  air,  which  will  carry  off  the  smell  of 
the  turpentine. 

ANOTHER    METHOD. 

Put  the  gloves  on  your  hands,  and  rub  them  lightly,  but  thor- 
oughly, wherever  soiled,  with  apiece  of  flannel,  soaked  in  benzine. 
As  they  dry  off,  rub  them  over  v/ith  pearl  powder,  and  expose 
them  to  the  air  to  take  off  the  smell  of  benzine.  This  is  the  way 
they  are  cleaned  by  French  cleaners,  and  if  done,  before  they  are 
too  much  soiled,  they  can  be  made  to  look  very  nice  by  this 
method. 

IRON   STAINS. 

These  may  be  removed  with  juice  of  lemon,  or  of  sorrel  leaves, 


MISCELLANEOUS.  291 

but  jf  these  fail,  moisten  the  stam  spots  with  water  and  rub  on  a 
little  powdered  oxalic  acid.  Wash  the  acid  off  thoroughly  soon 
after  it  is  put  on,  or  it  will  eat  the  cloth.  Also  wash  it  from  your 
hands,  and  keep  it  away  from  children,  for  it  is  poisonous  in  the 
mouth.  Ink  stain  may  be  taken  out  in  this  way.  It  must  be  no- 
ticed however  that  acids  had  better  only  be  used  on  white  as  they 
vill  discharge  pink,  lilac,  and  some  other  colors. 

GREASE   SPOTS. 

An  ounce  of  pulverized  borax  put  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
and  bottled  for  use,  will  be  found  invaluable  for  removing  grease 
spots  from  woolen  goods. 

INK   SPOTS   IN   BOOKS. 

Ink  on  printed  leaves  of  books,  may  be  removed  by  a  solution 
of  oxalic  acid  in  water.  The  lamp-black  of  printers'  ink  is  not  affect- 
ed by  it. 

GREASE   ON   A   LEATHER   COVERED   BOOK. 

To  remove  this,  rub  the  leather  with  white  flannel  briskly,  and 
repeat  until  it  disappears.  This  will  remove  grease  from  anything 
that  will  bear  rubbing. 

TO   REMOVE   SPERMACETI   SPOTS. 

First  scrape  off  all  you  can,  then  place  a  piece  of  brown  paper 
on  the  garment,  or  floor,  covering  the  spots,  and  put  a  warm  iron 
on  the  paper  until  the  oil  shows  through,  continue  until  no  oil  is 
drawn  by  the  paper. 

MARKING   INK. 

Put  a  little  lunar  caustic  (nitrate  of  silver)  into  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  gin,  and  in  a  day  or  two  it  is  fit  for  use.  Wet  the  linen 
with  common  soda  and  dry  it  before  using  the  ink  on  it.  The  col- 
or will  be  faint  at  first,  but  will  become  durable  on  exposure  to 
the  sun  or  fire. 

GREEN   INK 

Mix  a  solution  of  the  neutral  sulphate  of  indigo,  with  n  sohition 


292  MISCELLANEOUS. 

of  bichromate  of  potash,  until  the  desired  shade  is  obtained,  then 
add  a  little  mucilage.  A  solution  of  verdigris  also  forms  green 
ink. 

BLUE   LNK. 

Mix  in  a  glass  bottle,  one  ounce  of  pare  powdered  Prussian 
blue,  and  an  ounce  and  arhalf  to  two  ounces  of  concentrated  muri- 
atic acid.  After  twenty-foui  hours,  dilute  the  mass  with  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  water. 

GOLD    AND   SILVER  INKS. 

Grind  gold  leaf  with  white  honey  upon  a  slab  of  porphyry,  with  a 
muller,  until  it  is  reduced  to  an  impalpable  powder  in  a  pasty  condi- 
tion ;  this  golden  honey-paste  is  then  diffused  in  water  which  dis- 
solves the  honey,  and  the  gold  falls  to  the  bottom  in  the  form  of  very 
fine  powder.  Wash  off  the  honey  carefully,  mix  the  gold  powder 
with  gum  arabic  mucilage.  When  used  allow  it  to  dry  on  the  pa- 
per, when  it  may  be  made  brilliant  by  burnishing  it  with  an  agate 
burnisher.  Silver  ink  is  prepared  in  the  same  way  by  using  silver 
leaf. 

COCKROACHES. 

It  is  said  that  red  wafers,  and  also  the  roots  of  black  hellebore 
will  destroy  them.  They  may  be  caught  in  vessels  partly  filled 
with  molasses. 

RATS   AND   MICE. 

You  can  have  a  little  sport,  by  placing  a  barrel  with  a  little  meal 
in  it  where  they  run,  two  or  three  nights,  and  then  fill  it  a  third 
full  of  water,  and  sprinkle  the  meal  two  or  three  inches  deep  on 
the  top  of  it.  You  may  find  eight  or  ten  in  the  barrel  in  the 
morning  if  they  are  plenty.  You  can  use  a  smooth  kettle,  filling 
it  to  within  five  or  six  inches  of  the  top  with  water  and  covering 
^le  surface  with  bran,  or  chaff. 

MOTHS. 

One  ounce  of  gum  camphor,  and  one  ounce  of  powdered  red 
pepper,  macerated  in  eight  ounces  of  strong  alcohol  for  several 


MISCELLANEOUS.  293 

days,  then  strained.  With  this  tincture,  the  furs  or  cloth  are 
sprinkled  over,  and  then  rolled  up  in  sheets.  Or  give  them  a 
good  beating,  and  do  them  up  tightly  in  several  thicknesses  of 
paper,  so  that  one  covers  the  cracks  of  the  other;  or  in  linen  oi 
cotton  so  that  the  moth  cannot  get  in. 

BED   BUGS. 

Wash  the  bedstead  with  salt  and  water,  filling  the  cracks  where 
they  frequent,  with  salt.     It  is  preferable  to  **  ointments." 

CRICKETS. 

Put  Sctoch  snufF  in  the  holes  where  they  come  out. 

NOSEGAYS. 

Flowers  should  not  be  cut  during  sunshine  or  kept  exposed  to 
the  sun,  or  tied  tightly  together  in  bundles.  When  putting  them 
in  water,  cut  the  stems  squarely  across  with  a  knife,  scissors  close 
the  tubes  through  which  the  water  ascends.  The  water  should  be 
changed  every  day  or  once  in  two  days,  and  a  thin  slice  cut  off  the 
end  of  the  stalk  every  time. 

TO   PRESERVE    THE   FLOWERS    OF   A    BOUQUET. 

Let  a  spoonful  of  charcoal  powder  be  added  to  the  water,  and 
the  flowers  will  last  as  long  as  they  would  on  the  plant,  without  any 
need  of  changing  the  water  or  taking  any  trouble  at  all. 

HOW   LADIES   CAN   MAKE   THEIR  OWN    PERFUMES. 

If  we  spread  fresh,  unsalted  butter  upon  the  inside  of  two 
dessert-plates,  and  then  idl  one  of  the  plates  with  gathered  fra- 
grant blossoms  of  clematis,  covering  them  over  with  the  second 
greased  plate,  we  shall  find  that  after  twenty-four  hours  the  grease 
has  become  fragrant.  The  blossoms,  though  separated  fr-om  the 
parent  stem,  do  not  die  for  some  time,  but  live  to  exhale  odor, 
which  is  absorbed  by  the  fat.  To  remove  the  odor  from  the  fat,  the 
f\it  must  be  scraped  off  the  plates  and  put  into  alcohol ;  the  odor  then 
leaves  the  grease  and  enters  into  the  spirit,  which  thus  becomes 
**  scent,*"  and  the  grease  again  becomes  colorless  The  flower 
farmers  of  the  Var,  follow  precisely  this  method,  on  a  very   large 


294  MISCELLANEOUS. 

scale,  making  but  a  little  practical  variation,  with  the  following 
flowers:  rose,  orange,  acacia,  violet,  jasmine,  tube- rose,  and 
jonquil. 

TINCTURE   OF   ROSES. 

Take  tlie  leaves  of  the  common  rose  (centifolio)  and  place,  with- 
out pressing  them,  in  a  common  bottle ;  pour  some  good  spirits  of 
wine  upon  them,  close  the  bottle,  and  let  it  stand  till  required  for 
use.  This  tincture  will  keep  for  years,  and  yield  a  perfume  little 
inferior  to  attar  of  roses ;  a  few  drops  of  it  will  suffice  to  impreg- 
nate the  atmosphere  of  a  room  with  a  delicious  odor.  Common 
vinegar  is  greatly  improved  by  a  very  small  quantity  being  added 
to  it. 

POT  POURRI 

Take  three  handfuls  of  orange  flowers,  three  of  cloves, 
carnations,  or  pinks,  three  of  damask  roses,  one  of  marjoram,  one 
of  lemon  thymes,  six  bay  leaves,  a  handful  of  rosemary,  one  of 
myrtle,  half  a  handful  of  mint,  one  of  lavender,  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves.  Chop  these  all  up,  and  plaoe 
them  in  layers,  with  bay  salt  between  the  layers,  until  the  jar  is  full. 
Do  not  forget  to  throw  in  the  bay  salt  with  each  new  ingredient  put 
in,  should  it  not  be  convenient  to  procure  at  once  all  the  required 
articles.     The  perfume  is  very  fine. 

EASTER   EGGS. — 1. 

Immerse  eggs  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes,  inscribe  names  or  dates 
etc.,  on  the  shell  with  the  end  of  a  tallow  candle  or  with  grease, 
then  place  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  saturated  with  cochineal  or 
other  dye-woods ;  the  parts  over  which  tiie  tallow  has  passed  being 
impervious  to  the  dye,  the  eggs  come  out  presenting  white  inscrip- 
tions on  colored  grounds.  Or  boil  the  eggs  hard  and  paint  subjects 
on  them  with  a  camePs  hair  brush,  or  etch  them  with  a  steel  pen  in 
India  ink.  Or  dye  the  shells  first,  then  scrape  off  the  dye  in  any 
design  desired. 

EASTER   EGGS. — 2. 

An  egg  boiled  in  the  coat  of  an  onion  will  turn  to  a  beautiful 


MISCELLAXEOUS.  295 

brown  color.  To  give  a  blue  color,  boil  the  eggs  In  powdered 
indigo  with  the  addition  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  dilute  sulpluric  acid. 
To  give  an  egg  a  mottled  appearance,  with  bright  colors  blended, 
and  contrasted,  obtain  pieces  of  silk  of  the  brightest  colors,  cut  them 
into  bits  an  inch  long,  half  an  inch  wide,  add  a  few  chips  of  log- 
wood and  a  little  tumeric ;  let  the  egg  be  well  inbedded  in  this  so 
Ihat  the  silk  ma^  lorai  a  thick  layer  round  it,  scw  it  up  iii  very 
coarse  brown  paper  and  boil  it  half  an  hour  or  more. 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS. 


The  diet  for  invalids  depends  so  much  upon  the  condition  oJ 
the  patient,  that  only  the  most  general  directions  can  be  given; 
the  special  application  must  be  left  in  every  case  to  the  judgment 
of  the  nurse. 

Neatness,  cleanliness,  and  promptitude  are  the  great  requisites 
in  a  sick  chamber.  The  best  prepared  food  is  spoiled  by  want  of 
care  and  punctuality  in  placing  it  before  the  patient. 

When  persons  are  ill,  their  senses  are  often  preternaturally  acute  ; 
slight  marks  of  neglect  which  would  not  be  noticed  at  another 
time,  become  extremely  offensive ;  and  a  few  minutes  delay,  not 
only  seems  unpardonable,  but  is  sometimes  really  injurious.  Pa- 
tience, tact,  and  natural  kindness  of  disposition  are  essential  qual- 
ities in  a  good  nurse,  and  when  to  these  are  added  firmness  and 
good  judgment,  the  sum  total  of  excellence  in  this  line  has  been 
reached.  As  a  general  rule  however,  one  half  the  nurses  injure 
their  patients  by  absurd  restrictions,  and  the  other  half  by  foolish 
indulgence. 

GRUEL. 

This  simple  refreshment  is  invaluable  in  sickness,  arid  is  made 
•with  Httle  trouble  and  less  expense,  yet  it  is  scarcely  ever  prepared 
exactly  right. 

One  table-spoonful  of  fine  Indian  or  oat-meal,  mixed  smooth 
with  cold  water  and  a  salt-spoon  of  salt;  pour  upon  this  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  turn  into  a  saucepan  to  boil  gently  for  half  an 
hour ;  thin  it  with  boiling  water  if  it  thickens  too  much,  and  stir 
frequently ;  when  it  is  done,  a  table-spoonful  of  cream  or  a  httle 
new  milk  may  be  put  in  to  cool  it,  after  straining,  but  if  the  patient's 


FOOD    FOR    INVALIDS.  297 

stomach  is  weak  it  is  best  without  either.  Some  persons  like  It 
sweetened  and  a  little  nutmeg  added,  but  to  many  it  is  more  palat- 
able plain. 

PANADA. 

Break  up  three  arrow-root  crackers  into  small  pieces ;  pour  up- 
on them  boiling  water  and  cover  close  for  a  minute,  then  add  a 
tea-spoon  of  white  sugar  and  a  little  pure  milk.  It  Is  an  excellent 
breakfast  or  supper  for  a  child  or  an  invalid.  Instead  of  the  milk, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  squeezed  in  and  another  tea-spoon  of 
sugar  added. 

**  SOFT  "   TOAST 

Some  invalids  like  this  very  much  indeed,  and  nearly  all  do 
when  it  is  nicely  made. 

Toast  well,  but  not  too  brown,  a  couple  of  thin  slices  of  bread ; 
put  them  on  a  warm  plate  and  pour  over  boiling  water ;  cover 
quickly  with  another  plate  of  the  same  size,  and  drain  the  water 
off;  remove  the  upper  plate,  butter  the  toast,  put  It  In  the  oven 
one  minute,  and  then  cover  again  with  a  hot  plate  and  serve  at 
once. 

EGG   TOAST. 

Make  a  sofl  toast,  and  have  ready  one  or  more  fresh  eggs  which 
have  been  boiled  hoenty  minutes;  remove  the  shells,  cut  them  in 
slices  and  place  upon  the  toast,  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt ;  without  the  butter  they  may  be  eaten  with  impunity  by  the 
most  delicate  Invalid,  as  an  ^gg  cooked  for  twenty  minutes  is  real- 
ly more  easy  of  digestion  than  one  that  is  technically  boiled  soft. 

CALVES-FOOT   JELLY. 

Boil  four  nicely  cleaned  calves-feet  in  three  quarts  of  water  un- 
til reduced  to  one,  very  slowly ;  strain  and  set  away  until  cold, 
then  take  off  the  fat  from  the  top  and  remove  the  jelly  Into  a  stew- 
pan,  avoiding  the  settlings ^  and  adding  half  a  pound  of  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs — 
the  latter  to'make  It  transparent.  Boil  all  together  a  few  moments' 
and  set  away  in  bowls  or  glasses  ;  it  is  excellent  in  a  sick  room. 
18* 


298  FOOD    FOR    INVALIDS. 


A   SICK    BREAKFAST. 

A  small  waiter,  covered  with  a  clean  .tea-napkin  ;  a  cup  of  nice 
warm  tea.  two  slices  of  thin,  lightly-browned  toast,  a  tiny  pat  of 
sweet  butter,  and  a  small  saucer  of  fruit  or  jelly  of  some  kind. 
Guava  is  very  nice,  if  strawberries  or  other  fresh  fruits  are  not  in 
season 

A   SICK   DINNER. 

The  thick,  tender  part  of  a  mutton  chop  broiled,  a  roast  mealy 
potato,  a  little  jelly,  a  slice  of  Graham  bread,  and  half  of  an  **  in- 
valid's cup  pudding." 

A   SICK  TEA. 

A  bowl  of  cracker  panada,  or  a  cup  of  weak  black  tea,  one  or 
two  slices  of  Graham  bread,  with  a  little  butter,  and  fruit  if  allow- 
ed. 

INVALID   CUP  PUDDING. 

One  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  egg ;  mix  with  cold  milk,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt  to  a  batter.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  in  a  buttered 
cup.     Eat  with  sauce,  fruit,  or  plain  sugar. 

BEEF    TEA. 

Cut  up  half  a  pound  rump  steak  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it 
into  a  bowl  of  lukewarm  water ;  cover  it,  and  set  it  where  it  will 
gradually  heat.  In  about  half  an  hour,  turn  it  into  a  lined  sauce- 
pan, and  cover  close,  and  set  It  on  the  range  to  boll ;  skim  It  well 
as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  and  after  boiling  up  once  or  twice, 
withdraw  it  from  the  fire  and  let  It  simmer  gently  in  a  cooler  place 
for  an  hour.  Strain,  and  season  as  preferred.  In  winter  this  will 
keep  good,  in  a  cellar,  several  days ;  but  in  summer  it  is  required 
fresh  every  day,  even  if  kept  in  a  refrigerator.  Mutton  broth  is 
made  in  the  same  way. 

SOFT   BOILED   EGGS. 

Fresh  eggs  for  invalids  who  like  them  cooked  soft,  should  be  put 
m  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  set  on  a  part  of  the  range  where 


FOOD   FOR   INVALIDS.  299 

they  will  not  boil,  for  several  minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
they  will  be  like  jelly,  perfectly  soft,  but  beautifully  done,  and 
quite  digestible  by  even  weak  stomachs. 

INVALID    APPLE    PIE. 

Slice  up  one  or  more  nice,  tart  apples  in  a  saucer,  sweeten  with 
white  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  moderately  thick  slice  of  bread  but- 
tered slightly  on  the  under  side.  When  the  bread  Is  browned, 
the  apples,  if  of  a  tender  kind,  and  thinly  sliced,  will  be  don 3. 

ROAST    APPLES. 

These  can  nearly  always  be  eaten  with  safety,  when  they  are  eat- 
en with  relish.  Choose  good  sized,  fair  apples  of  a  tart,  and  juicy, 
but  not  sour  kind.  Rub  them  off  clean,  and  put  them  in  rather  a 
slow  oven,  which  may  increase  in  warmth,  so  that  they  shall  be 
thoroughly  done  in  an  hour.  When  so  soft  that  the  savory  pulp 
breaks  through  the  browned  skin  in  every  direction,  take  them 
out,  sift  white  sugar  over  them,  and  carry  one  at  a  time  on  a  China 
saucer  to  the  patient. 

LEMONADE. 

This  is  Invaluable  In  fevers,  and  also  in  rheumatic  affections. 
Rub  the  lemons  soft,  cut  them  half  through  the  centre  and  squeeze 
out  the  juice,  take  out  the  seeds  with  a  tea-spoon.  Put  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  white  sugar  to  each  lemon,  and  fill  up  with  cold  or 
boiling  water,  according  as  you  desire  the  lemonade,  hot,  or  cold. 
Two  medium  sized  lemons  will  make  a  pint  or  more  of  lemonade. 

APPLE  WATER. 

Roast  two  tart  apples  until  they  are  soft,  put  them  in  a  pitcher, 
pour  upon  them  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
an  hour.  It  is  used  in  fevers  and  eruptive  diseases,  and  does  not 
require  sweetening. 

STEWED   PRUNES. 

These  are  extremely  good  In  small  pox,  measles,  scarlet  fever, 
and  the  like,  both  as  food  and  medicine.  Get  the  box  prunes,  as 
they  will  not  need  washing,  and  because  they  are  generally  of 


300  FOOD    FOR    INVALIDS. 

a  much  butter  quality  than  the  open  sort.  Soak  them  for  an  hour 
in  cold  water,  then  put  them  in  a  porcelain  lined  saucepan  with  a 
little  more  water  if  necessary,  and  a  little  coffee  crushed  sugar. 
(^over,  and  let  them  stew  slowly  an  hour,  or  until  they  are  swollen 
large  and  quite  soft.  Tliey  are  excellent  as  an  accompaniment  to 
breakfast  for  a  sick  woman. 

DRY   TOAST. 

Cut  your  slices  of  bread  even,  and  not  too  thick.  Toast  before 
a  clear  fire,  a  nice  light  brown.  Cover  with  a  napkin,  and  serve 
quickly  while  it  is  hot.  Dry  toast  is  not  always  good  for  invalids, 
especially  when  the  bowels  are  confined,  and  it  is  desirable  to  keep 
them  open.     In  this  case,  Graham  bread  not  toasted  is  much  better. 

TAPIOCA    CUP   PUDDING. 

This  is  very  light,  and  delicate  for  invalids.  An  even  table- 
spoonful  of  tapioca,  soaked  for  two  hours  in  nearly  a  cup  of  new 
milk.  Stir  into  this  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg,  a  little  sugar,  a  grain 
of  salt  and  bake  in  a  cup  for  fifteen  minutes.  A  little  jelly  may 
be  eaten  with  it,  if  allowed,  or  a  few  fresh  strawberries. 

MILK    TOAST. 

This  is  a  favorite  dish  with  nearly  all  sick  people  when  they  are 
getting  well.  Cut  stale  baker^s  bread  in  rather  thin  slices,  toast  a 
fine  brown,  and  lay  them  in  a  deej)  dish.  Meanwhile,  boil  a  quart 
of  new  milk,  in  a  lined  saucepan,  into  which  you  have  first  put  a 
very  little  cold  water  to  prevent  burning.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  pour 
itoverthe  toast,  cover,  and  serve  quick.  For  an  invalid,  no  butter 
should  be  put  in  the  milk.  Some  people  put  in  a  thickening  of 
Hour,  but  this  spoils  it  to  our  thinking. 

THICKENED   MILK. 

With  a  little  milk,  mix  smooth  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  when  it 
is  thoroughly  amalgamated  put  all  back  into  the  saucepan,  and  boil 
up  once,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  and  stirring  all  the  time,  to 
keep  it  perfectly  smooth,  and  free  from  lumps.  Serve  with  slices 
of  dry  toast.  It  is  excellent  in  diarrhea  and  becomes  a  specific  by 
scorching  the  flour  before  mixing  with  the  milk. 


FOOD    FOR   INVALIDS.  301 


OYSTER   SOUP. 


Make  a  little  broth  of  lean  veal,  or  mutton,  simmer  with  it  some 
root,  or  essence  of  celery.  Strain  It,  put  again  on  the  fire,  and 
when  It  bolls  throw  In  the  oysters  with  their  liquor,  and  a  trifle  of 
pepper,  and  salt.  Serve  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boll  on  little 
8(|uares,  or  sippets  of  toast. 

BROILED   TENDERLOIN. 

This  Is  a  choice  piece  from  a  sirloin  steak,  and  is  highly  enjoyed 
when  the  patient  is  becoming  convalescent.  Cut  out  the  round 
piece  from  the  Inside  of  a  sirloin  steak,  boil  it  quick  over  a  bright 
fire,  upon  a  small,  heated  gridiron,  turn  it,  with  Its  gravy,  upon  a 
piece  of  freshly  made  toast,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  pepper,  but  no 
butter,  place  between  two  hot  plates,  and  serve  directly.  A  ten- 
der mutton  chop,  or  half  of  the  breast  of  a  chicken  may  be  served 
the  same  way,  only  the  chicken  will  require  longer,  and  somewhat 
slower  cooking. 

MILK  AND   EGGS. 

Beat  up  a  fresh  egg,  with  a  grain  of  salt,  pour  upon  it  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.  Serve  hot,  with  or  without 
toast.  It  Is  good  in  case  of  weakness  for  an  early  breakfast,  or 
for  a  traveller  before  starting  on  a  journey. 


FOOD  FOR  INFANTS. 


FOOD   FOR   INFANTS. 


Il,  is  a  sad,  and  significant  fact,  that  at  least  half  the  children  at 
the  present  time,  are  deprived  of  their  proper  sustenance,  and 
left  to  the  tender  mercies  of  wet  nurses,  or  the  bottle.  Between 
the  two  evils,  it  is  difficult  to  say  which  is  the  least ;  but  unless  a 
superior  nurse  can  be  found — one  intelligent,  and  thoroughly  clean 
in  her  personal  habits — we  should  say,  choose  the  last,  and  bring 
it  up  by  hand. 

It  is  the  opinion  of  the  best  physicians,  and  the  conviction  is 
borne  out  by  every  mother''s  experience,  that  the  moral,  mental, 
and  spiritual,  as  well  as  physical  condition  of  a  child  is  greatly  in- 
fluenced during  its  nursing  period.  Mothers  who  nurse  their  own 
children  know  that  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  to  the  quiet  and 
healthful  condition  of  the  child,  that  they  should  be  free  from  all 
sources  of  agitation,  anxiety,  and  irritability.  Overwork,  giving 
Way  to  fretfulness,  or  being  subjected  to  the  unreasonable  temper 
ancf  caprices  of  others,  frequently  induces  a  state  of  mind  that  shows 
itsell  plainly  in  the  uneasiness  and  disquiet  it  produces  in  the  in- 
fant, And  would  be  seen  with  still  greater  distinctness  were  women 
accustomed  to  trace  results  more  strictly  to  their  causes. 

If  t&is  is  the  case  with  the  mother,  if  her  mental  and  spiritual 
condition  finds  itself  reflected  so  minutely  in  the  lights  and  shadows 
of  the  little  life  Avhich  is  dependent  upon  her,  why  should  it  not  re- 
ceive a  coloring  from  the  milk  which  it  derives  from  a  dull ,  coarse, 
appetite-loving  wet  nurse  of  the  ordinary  stamp  ?  Two  thirds  of 
these  nurses  make  a  necessity  of  strong  tea  and  coffee,  and  malt 
liquor,  two  or  three  times  a  day ;  they  are  often  anything  but 
scrupulous  in  their  personal  habits,  and  so  accustomed  to  the  ex- 


FOOD    FOR   INFANTS.  303 

ercise  of  a  violent  will  by  virtue  of  their  office,  as  to  be  unwilling 
to  bear  the  slightest  control  or  contradiction.  These  are  not  the 
influences  which  a  thoughtful  mother  would  like  to  have  her  child 
drink  in  with  its  milk. 

We  believe  it  to  be  a  misfortune,  the  extent  of  which  is  not  at 
all  realized,  when  the  mother  cannot  nurse  her  own  child.  The 
mother's  milk  contains  all  the  elements  necessary  for  its  propt  i 
growth  in  every  direction,  and  no  substitute  can  be  found  for  it ; 
but  where  this  is  impossible,  unless,  as  before  remarked,  a  very 
superior  nurse  can  be  obtained,  it  is  safer  to  trust  to  the  simple 
food,  which  at  least  sustain  life,  and  do  no  hurt  if  given  at  right 
times  and  in  proper  quantities,  leaving  the  mental  and  spiritual  ac- 
tivities unimpeded,  though  probably  subject  to  a  slower  growth 
than  if  aided  by  the  sympathetic  magnetism  of  the  mother's  na- 
ture. 

STARCHY  FOOD. 

Such  as  arrowroot,  sago,  corn-starch,  and  the  like,  is  commonly 
held  to  be  very  healthy  and  nutritious  for  infants,  yet  the  experi- 
ence of  every  physician,  furnishes  numerous  instances  of  feeble, 
sickly  children  that  are  so  fed,  while  the  number  is  small  that  sur- 
vive it.  The  reason  of  this  is,  that  the  digestive  organs  of  infants 
are  not  sufficiently  powerful  to  convert;  the  starchy  matter  into 
nourishment;  it  therefore  only  serves  to  clog,  and  impede  the  ac- 
tion of  the  system,  while  the  little  victim  is  gradually  being  starved 
on  the  trifle  of  sustenance  which  it  can  obtain,  from  whatever  su- 
gar and  milk  is  given  with  its  other  food. 

ENGLISH    *'  PAP. 

English  and  French  babies,  when  brought  up  by  hand,  are  fed 
almost  altogether  on  "  pap,"  which  is  made,  in  England,  in  the  fol- 
lowing way : 

Boiling  water  is  poured  on  a  small  p'ece  of  the  crumby  part  of 
white,  light  bread.  This  is  covered  up  for  a  moment,  and  then 
the  water  poured  off.  The  softened  bread  is  then  put  in  a  little 
porcelain  stewpan,  with  a  trifle  more  of  water,  and  allowed  to  boil 
up,  and  it  Is  then  a  pulp.  A  lump  of  white  sugar  and  a  little  cold 
milk,  added,  brings  it  precisely  up   to   the  ideas   of  most  young 


304  FOOD    FOR    INFANTS. 

Britishers,  who  grow  very  stout  and  healthy  upon  it.  This  is  ex- 
cellent food  where  the  mother  is  capable  of  partly  nursing  her 
child. 

French  pap  is  made  of  flour  instead  of  bread,  which  is  decided- 
ly objectionable,  as  it  is  not  only  less  agreeable,  but  much  less 
easily  digested. 

cow's   MILK. 

A  diet  of  cows'  milk  exclusively  is  not  good ;  it  is  too  rich  and 
very  provocative  of  eruptive  diseases.  But  if  the  bottle  is  pre- 
ferred to  spoon-feeding,  half  of  one  good  cow's  milk  may  be  given, 
diluted  with  half  of  boiling  water  and  sweetened  slightly  with 
white  sugar. 

An  excellent  change  from  this  consists  of  a  thin  strained  gruel 
from  the  best  prepared  barley,  with  a  little  milk  and  sugar  added. 

A  little  sugar  is  necessary  in  infants'  food,  but  be  particularly 
careful  not  to  make  it  sweet,  as  this  provokes  continual  thirst,  as 
well  as  disorders  the  child's  stomach. 

infant's  broth 

After  the  baby  is  three  months  old,  it  may  occasionally  be  treat- 
ed to  a  little  clear  chicken,  or  mutton  broth,  made  in  the  following 
way.  Cut  up  a  pound  of  lean  mutton  into  small  pieces,  and  put 
them  into  a  small  jar,  cover  them  with  cold  water,  set  the  jar  in  a 
kettle  of  warm  water,  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  and  simmer  the 
mutton  until  the  strength  is  extracted.  One  pound  of  meat  should 
make  a  quart  of  broth — simmer  at  least  six  hours — strain  and  put 
in  a  trifle  of  salt,  but  no  other  spice.  Treat  part  of  a  chicken 
in  the  same  way,  for  chicken  broth. 

BABY    PUDDING. 

Grate  a  little  stale  bread,  pour  some  boiling  milk  upon  it,  covei, 
and  when  it  becomes  a  pulp,  stir  into  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a 
grain  of  salt.  The  quantity  should  fill  a  tea-cup,  n\  which  boil  it 
fifteen  minutes. 

essentials. 

Warm,  sensible  clothing,  quiet,  with  food  and  sleep  at  regular 
intervals  are  the  essentials  to  health  and  comfort  of  babies. 


FOOD    FOR    CHILDREN.  305 

FOOD  FOR  YOUNG  ClilLDFvEN. 

The  great  danger  in  feeding  young  cliildren  lies  not  so  much  in 
the  food,  as  in  its  preparation,  or  want  of  preparation.  A  hard 
indigestible  potato  is  bad  (or  them,  and  a  little  tender,  stewed 
meat  is  good,  but  if  the  potato  were  mashed,  and  mealy,  and 
the  meat  hard,  and  tough,  the  ease  would  be  just  the  reverse. 

The  principal  danger  is  in  their  swallowing  indigestible  sub- 
stances, and  whether  these  are  hard  ap[)les,  or  lumpy  potatoes, 
tough  meat,  or  sour  bread,  rich  cake,  or  hickory  nuts,  makes  very 
little  difference,  the  irritation,  and  derangement  produced  is  the 
same. 

Meat  for  children  under  the  age  of  ten  years,  should  be  cooked 
very  tender,  and  cut  up  very  small,  or  given  in  the  form  of  soup. 
Potatoes  should  be  mashed,  apples  roasted,  or  stewed,  and  if 
bread  and  milk  could  form  their  breakfast,  and  some  kind  of 
mush, with  milk,  their  supper,  they  would  be  all  the  better  for  it, 
for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 

CHILDREN  S    PIE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter, 
cover  it  with  fresh  berries,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  or  with  stewed 
fruit,  fresh  or  dried.  Set  it  in  the  oven' fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Sift  a  little  sugar  over  it,  when  it  comes  out. 

BROWN   MUSH   FOR   SUPPER. 

Stir  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
Graham  tlour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  Indian  mush.  Let  it 
boil  gently  half  an  hour,  keeping  it  covered.  Eat  it  with  cream, 
or  milk,  and  sugar. 

BREAD   AND   MILK. 

Cut,  or  break  stale  bread  up  into  small  pieces,  and  let  them  come 
to  a  boil  in  milk.  It  makes  an  excellent  breakfast  for  children 
with  a  slii^e  of  toast,  or  without. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Should  be  stewed  soft,  strained  through  a  colander,  which  will 


306  ladies'  lunches. 

pass  every  thing  but  the  skin  ;  bolld  up  a  second  time  with  tLe 
sugar,  and  set  away  to  cool.  They  may  then  be  eaten  with  im- 
punity by  the  most  delicate  children. 


LADIES'  LUNCHES. 

These  are  not  at  all  difficult,  and  the  less  fuss  and  preparation 
there  is  for  them,  the  better;  they  may  of  course  be  made  very 
elaborate,  but  in  this  case,  it  has  become  the  fashion  for  ladies  to 
engage  a  private  room  and  lunch,  for  a  certain  number  of  guests, 
at  a  stylish  restaurant,  the  hour,  and  extensive  preparation,  inter- 
fering with  domestic  economies,  and  regulations  of  the  household, 
if  allowed  to  take  place  at  home. 

Ordinarily  however,  **  ladies'*  lunches,"  are  simple  affairs,  delicate, 
recherche,  and  more  famous  for  the  wit  they  evoke,  and  the  enjoy- 
ment they  create,  than  for  the  dishes,  which  are  not  unfrequently 
quite  incongruous.  *'  I  will  come,"  says  one,  **  if  you  will  have  some 
of  your  delicious  chicken  salad;"  '*  and  I,"  says  another,  **  if 
you  can  persuade  your  cook  to  make  an  omelette,"  **  and  I, — I 
w^ant  a  cup  of  your  chocolate,"  exclaims  a  third. 

But  whatever  be  the  bill  of  fare,  let  it  be  such,  that  the  presence 
of  the  hostess  will  not  be  required  in  the  kitchen,  nor  a  large  at- 
tendance of  servants  in  removing  dishes. 

Many  of  the  pleasantest  lunches  are  quite  impromptu ;  one  or 
more  ladies  call, — gentlemen  nearly  always  lunch  down  town,  in 
cities, — and  the  hostess  without  ceremony  invites  them  to  share  her 
mid-day  meal.  In  such  a  case,  no  apology  is  necessary  for  very 
simple  fare,  the  friendliness  of  the  invitation  being  worth  much 
more  than  variety,  and  costliness  of  dishes. 

A  dish  of  poached  eggs  and  boiled  ham,  will  answer  for  such  an 
occasion,  or  delicate  rice  cakes,  added  to  the  cold  ham,  and  chickens 
or  sliced  tomatoes  with  tender  broiled  lamb  chops  ;  all  dishes  easily 
and  cheaply  prepared,  anti  sure  to  be  appreciated.  A  box  of 
sardines  is  useful  to  have  on  hand,  but  we  do  not  consider  then 
healthful  eating,  and  recommend  them  only  in  case  of  emerg  mcy. 
To  a  ladies'  lunch,  not  more  than  six  or  eight  guests  should  be 


ladies'  lunches.  307 

invited,  and  tlie  food  should  be  all  placed  on  the  table  at  one  time 
tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate  being  served  from  a  side  table  by  a  ser 
vant. 

BILL   OF   FARE. 

Roast  chicken  garnished,  ham  sandwiches,  pancakes  with  jelly, 
French  rolls,  potato  balls,  or  croquettes^  wine  jelly,  lady  cake,  tart* 
lets,  and  oranges. 

Lobster  salad,  mixed  pickles,  French  bread,  cold  tongue,  mar- 
malade, meringues,  oranges,  and  claret  punch. 

Chicken  pie,  compote  apples,  or  apples  stewed  whole ;  cold  ham 
garnished  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley,  bread,  biscuits,  pickled 
cucumbers,  tartlets,  sponge  cake  with  a  custard  poured  over  it, 
and  whip  on  top  of  it,  making  floating  island ;  and  bottled 
peaches,  or  strawberries. 

Potted  salmon,  and  pigeon  pie,  currant  and  raspberry  jelly, 
delicate  biscuits,  celery  or  salad  of  lettuce,  cheese  cakes,  cocoa 
nut  cake,  and  fresh  fruit  in  season. 

Cold  roast  turkey,  pickled  oysters,  cranberry  jelly,  celery, 
French  rolls,  small  English  mince  pies,  (made  without  meat),  jel- 
ly cake,  and  grapes,  or  preserved  pineapple. 

Cold  pigeons  which  have  been  stuffed  and  roasted,  little  oystei 
patties,  or  vol  au  vente,  blackberry  jelly,  and  pickled  cauliflower, 
with  slices  of  red  beet  root ;  blanc  mange,  with  tarts,  and  cream, 
fruit  cake,  with  grapes,  and  wine. 


A  STAG  SUPPER. 

A  stag  supper  is  one  to  which  only  gentleman  are  invited,  and 
it  is  necessary,  therefore,  to  pay  particular  attention  to  the  dishes 
which  gentlemen  usually  prefer.  The  centre  of  the  table  should 
be  occupied  by  a  large  punch-bowl,  filled  with  claret  punch,  and 


308  A    STAG    SUPPER. 

set  in  a  deep  reservoir,  containing  blocks  of  clear  ice.  At  the  top 
of  the  table  shouM  be  a  cold  roast  turkey  with  a  string  of  sausages 
round  its  neck;  at  the  bottom,  a  boiled  turkey,  stuffed  with  oys- 
ters. On  one  side  of  the  table  should  be  a  large  chicken  pie,  or- 
namented with  pastry,  on  the  other,  a  pair  of  roast  ducks,  one 
stuffed  with  onions,  the  other  with  prunes.  At  opposite  corners, 
tureens  of  pickled  oysters,  a  cold  boiled  ham,  and  cold  tongue, 
garnished  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  green  parsley.  French  bread, 
pickles,  pineapple,  cheese,  sardines  and  champagne  jelly,  where- 
ever  it  is  possible  to  put  them ;  also  oval  dishes  of  lobster  salad, 
potted  meat  sandwiches,  and  pickled  salmon.  Celery,  grapes 
apples,  oranges,  ice  cream,  and  cream  cakes,  or  Charlotte  llusse 
Beverages,  according  to  taste  and  means. 


NEW  YEAR'S  TABLES,  PARTIES,  Etc. 


It  does  not  come  within  the  scope  of  this  work  to  give  direc- 
tions for  the  getting  up  of  elaborate  and  expensive  entertainments. 
People  who  do  these  things,  generally  have  a  professed  cook,  or 
have  their  table  suppHed  from  some  fashionable  restaurant.  We 
propose  only  to  furnish  useful  hints  to  plain  housekeepers  with 
limited  resources,  and  shall  therefore  not  go  beyond  those  simple 
means  of  entertainment  that  are  within  the  power  of  most  Ameri- 
can families. 

NEW   year's  table 

The  custom  of  receiving  calls  is  becoming  so  very  general  out 
of  New  York  city,  that  a  few  hints  on  the  method  of  setting  the 
table  for  the  occasion  may  not  come  amiss. 

What  is  called  a  substantial  table,  is  out  of  fashion  now,  except- 
ing among  old-fashioned  people,  but  it  must  still  be  remembered 
that  as  it  is  the  taste  of  gentlemen,  and  not  of  ladies  that  are  to  be 
consulted  on  this  day,  sweets,  cake  and  the  like,  should  be  subor- 
dinated to  chicken  salad,  pickled  oysters,  potted  salmon,  sardines, 
and  the  like,  which  gentlemen  generally  greatly  prefer. 

An  average  table  displays  one  handsomely  ornamented  cake, 
raised  high  on  a  china,  glass  or  sWwqv  plateau,  in  the  centre,  sup- 
ported by  bouquets  of  flowers.  All  the  dishes  are  cold,  of  course, 
and  may  be  decorated  with  little  bits  of  evergreen,  with  flowers  or 
with  lemon  in  slices.  Small  biscuit  sandwiches  made  of  tongue 
and  ham,  or  ham  and  potted  veal,  are  very  good.  Pickled  oys- 
ters, are  indispensable,  and  sardines,  and  chicken,  or  lobster  salad, 
will  be  found  very  popular.  Jellies,  fruit,  one  or  more  baskets  of 
mixed  cake,  and  whatever  is  thought  requisite  in  the  way  of  con- 
fectionery, should  be  arranged  tastefully  so  as  to  produce  the  best 


310     NEW  year's  tables,  parties,  etc. 

effect.     A  dish  of  oranges  ornamented  with  tufts  of  green  moss, 
and  sprigs  of  scarlet  geranium  looks  very  nice. 

It  would  be  much  better  if  no  wines  were  offered  New  Year''sday, 
-if  beverages  were  limited  to  coffee,  lemonade,  and  cold  water; 
but  as  most  persons  seem  to  think  otherwise,  it  would  be  Quixotic 
to  attempt  here  to  stem  the  tide  of  fashionable  opinion.  Cherry, 
old  Bourbon,  and  claret  punch  are  in  great  demand  where  they 
are  to  be  found.     Coffee  is  always  served  from  a  side  table. 

A   FAMILY    DINNER.       BILL   OF   FARE   FOR   TEN. 

Soup  is  not  considered  so  indispensable  to  even  elegant  dinners 
it  this  country,  as  in  England  and  France ;  though  it  is  generally, 
even  here,  the  first  course.  For  our  family  dinner  party  however, 
we  have  no  soups ;  but  we  have  two  kinds  of  fish, —  baked  salmon 
trout,  with  anchovy  sauce,  and  boiled  white  fish,  with  caper  sauce. 
We  have,  also,  small  side  dishes  of  lobster  and  chicken  salad  ;  pick- 
les, and  glass  dishes  of  white,  crimped  celery,  and  cranberry  jelly. 
The  fish  is  followed  by  a  roast  turkey  with  its  necklace  of  sau- 
sages, or  a  roast  fowl,  and  dish  of  stewed  pigeons, ;  and  these  are 
accompanied  by  an  army  of  vegetables,  sauces,  and  gravies.  A 
boiled  ham  makes  it  appearance,  but  it  is  chiefly  ornamental.  The 
next  course  is  plum  pudding,  and  then  comes  a  dessert  of  white, 
and  black  grapes,  oranges,  apples,  and  nuts,  Charlotte  Russe,  or 
cream  puffs,  and  finally,  coffee.  Sometimes  we  have  wine,  and 
sometimes  we  don't,  at  family  dinners. 

A   SMALL  SUPPER  PARTY.   BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  FIFTY  PERSONS. 

Have  at  one  end  of  the  table  a  tureen  of  pickled  oysters,  at  the 
other,  a  large  dish  of  chicken  salad.  Side  dishes  should  contain 
neat  slices  of  ham,  tongue,  cold  chicken,  and  sardines,  ornamented 
with  sprigs  of  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  red  beet  root,  cut  in  stars, 
or  the  curled  leaves  of  celery.  Chicken  salad  may  be  gari  ished 
with  Qgg  rings,  and  celery  hearts,  cut  in  shapes,  and  stuck  all 
over  the  surface.  Tv/o  pyramids  of  ice  cream  will  occupy  the 
spaces  next  to  the  top  and  bottom  dishes,  and  will  be  followed  by 
two  handsome  baskets  of  cake,  which  will  just  leave  room  for  a 
pyramid  of  confectionery,  or  a  high  glass  dish  of  fruit  in  the  cen- 
tre.    Filling  up  the  corners,  will  be  glass  dishes  of  jelly,  Charlotte 


NEW   year's    parties,    REFRESHMENTS,   ETC.        311 

Russe  in  forms,  and  little  dishes  of  pickles,  and  plates  of  biscuit 
everywhere ;  there  should  also  be  at  least  two  dishes  of  mottoes, 
and  two  of  almonds  and  raisins.  Care  should  be  taken  to  have 
abundance  of  plates,  saucers,  spoons,  and  napkins.  Hot  coffee 
should  be  served  round  at  the  beginning,  and  champagne  punch  at 
the  close  ;  or  if  not  that,  claret  punch.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  have 
an  immense  punch  bowl  of  iced  lemonade,  for  the  guests  to  go  to 
whenever  they  choose. 

REFRESHMENTS. 

For  sociables,  receptions,  and  small  evening  companies,  re- 
freshments are  generally  handed  round,  and  are  of  a  very  simple 
character.  A  variety  of  cake  with  jelly,  and  ice  cream,  are  per- 
haps the  most  frequently  employed,  with  or  without  wine.  Coffee, 
and  little  biscuit  sandwiches,  with  cake,  and  fruit,  are  sometimes 
substituted. 

At  simple  receptions,  a  cup  of  tea,  or  coffee,  and  a  little  cake, 
or  biscuit  is  all  that  is  required. 

Do  not,  however,  confine  yourself  to  lady-fingers,  or  any  of  the 
polite  forms  of  starvation.  If  you  have  only  tea  and  cake,  let  the 
tea  be  good,  and  the  cake  good ;  and  allow  your  visitors  the  priv- 
ilege of  having  their  cups  refilled. 

A  children's  party. 

Let  the  children  give  a  party  at  least  once  a  year,  and  make  out 
a  programme  of  amusements  for  them ;  a  magic  lantern  is  very 
useful,  in  addition  to  games  and  dancing.  Let  the  children  them- 
selves principally  do  the  honors.  It  will  teach  them  how  to  receive 
and  entertain  guests. 

It  Is  best  to  have  a  table  set  for  the  children,  and  make  the  re- 
freshments as  light  and  simple  as  possible.  Little  baked  custards 
in  cups,  apple  snow.  Ice  cream,  baskets  of  kisses,  lady-fingers, 
and  *' Christmas  cakes  for  good  children"  [see  Sweet  Cakes],  small 
apple  tarts,  oranges,  and  mottoes,  with  water  and  lemonade,  con- 
stitute a  sufficient,  and  to  juveniles,  a  most  attractive  variety.  It 
is  still  better  if  the  mottoes  are  not  given  them  to  eat,  but  are 
fewer  in  quality,  and  sufficiently  handsome  to  carry  home  as  a 
souvenir.     The  party  should  close  with  a  lively  game  before  twelve 


312  PARTIES,    REFUESriMENTS,    ETC. 

o'clock,  so  that  the  little  ones  may  be   at  home  by  midnight  at 
least.. 

A    CHRISTMAS    PARTY. 

A  Christmas  party,  which  includes  a  Christmas  tree,  is  the  most 
delightful  of  all  parties;  it  is  not  particularly  fashionable,  and  it  is 
particularly  unceremonious,  but  on  that  account  all  the  more  en- 
joyable. 

At  first  sight,  a  Christmas  tree,  with  a  gift  for  every  person  in 
vited,  would  seem  to  involve  great  expense,  but  it  need  not,  if 
people  will  content  themselves  with  furnishing  the  tree  with  such 
gifts  as  their  means  will  admit.  Twenty-five  dollars  will  purchase 
a  large  tree,  decorate  it  with  flowers  and  lights,  and  supply  pretty 
and  amusing  gifts  for  fifty  or  more  persons.  Fifteen  or  twenty 
dollars  more,  will  supply  all  the  refreshments,  in  the  shape  of  cake, 
and  ice  cream,  and  home  made  jellies,  or  fruits  needed.  An  im- 
provised Santa  Claus  distributes  the  gifts  by  lot  at  a  certain  hour, 
then  follows  refreshments,  and  the  evening  closes  with  dancing, 
and  perhaps  a  game  of  blind  mane's  buff. 

Of  course,  family  and  other  Christmas  trees,  may  be  made  as 
elaborate  and  expensive  in  their  furnishing,  as  means  will  allow ; 
we  hav»i  only  thrown  out  the  suggestion,  to  show  how  cheaply  it 
may  be  done. 


WASHING  DAY. 


WASHING    DAY. 


This  is  the  dreaded  event  of  every  household,  large,  and  small ; 
it  is  proverbially  associated  with  wretchedness  and  discomfort,  and 
many  have  been  the  plans,  methods,  and  receipts,  which  have  been 
imposed  upon  housekeepers,  through  their  desire  to  relieve  them- 
selves of  this  constantly  recurring  source  of  trouble  and  annoy- 
ance. 

Such  efforts,  are  mostly  vain,  and  useless  however,  sometimes 
worse — positively  injurious.  Clean  clothes  are  a  luxury,  that  must 
be  paid  for  in  some  shape  or  other — and  no  substances  have  been 
discovered,  and  few  machines  invented,  to  rival  the  stout  arm,  and 
strong  hand  of  the  professional  wash-woman. 

Never  use  soda  to  soften  water,  it  rots  the  clothes  in  proportion 
to  its  strength;  buy  crude  borax  by  the  pound,  and  put  in  half  an 
ounce  for  an  ordinary  washing ;  it  whitens,  and  cleanses,  and 
softens,  wonderfully,  and  injures  nothing.  The  women  of  Holland, 
whose  washing  is  proverbial,  use  borax. 

Use  a  really  good  brand  of  soap  well  dried — not  the  soft,  gela- 
tinous, yellow  bars,  which  melt  away  in  a  moment,  and  really 
stain  rather  than  cleanse  the  clothes,  and  ahvays  destroy  the  hands. 

Have  the  clothes  soaked  over  night  in  warm  water,  rubbing  all 
creased  and  soiled  places  with  soap,  and  they  will  require  only 
one  washing,  and  that  not  a  laborious  one,  before  boiling.  Boil 
quick,  rinse  thoroughly,  wring  through  a  first-rate  clothes  wringer, 
(the  barbarism  of  wringing  by  hand,  is  now  happily  at  an  end) 
and  bring  them  in,  and  fold  them  as  soon  as  they  are  dry.  Fine 
shirts,  ruffles,  and  linen,  and  cambric  under  clothing,  are  much 
injured  by  being  exposed  an  unnecessary  length  of  time  to  frost, 
"wind,  or  dust. 

14 


814  WASHING   DAY. 

TABLE-CLOTHS,    NAPKINS,    ETC. 

These  articles,  and  any  others  that  are  likely  to  be  disfigured 
with  fruit,  or  coffee  stains,  should  be  kept  back  from  the  general 
soaking,  in  order  to  undergo  special  treatment.  Put  these  in  a 
small  tub  by  themselves — and  pour  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  upon 
them — not  hot,  but  boiling,  hot  water  sets  stains,  boihng  water 
takes  them  out  clean.  When  the  water  has  cooled  a  little,  wash 
them  thoroughly,  and  boil  them,  the  stains  will  have  probably  all 
disappeared,  but  if  they  should  prove  very  obstinate,  lay  them  on 
the  grass  wet,  when  the  sun  is  hot,  and  they  will  vanish. 

WHITE   FLANNELS. 

White  flannel  garments,  such  as  petticoats,  underskirts  and 
drawers,  baby  flannels  and  the  like,  require  also  to  be  put  in  boil- 
ing water.  The  very  best  way  to  wash  white  flannels  is  by  ma- 
chine. Put  in  the  flannels,  pour  in  boiling  suds,  mild,  let  them 
stand  a  few  minutes,  then  grind  them  out.  Pour  the  suds  away, 
put  the  flannels  in  again,  and  pour  over  them  a  kettle  of  clear 
boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  crude  borax  in  it,  and  grind  them 
out  of  that.  This  finishes  the  process,  and  makes  them  beautiful- 
ly soft  and  clean,  with  little  labor,  and  no  danger  of  shrinkage. 

ZEPHYR  GOODS  AND  COLORED  FLANNELS. 

Colored  flannel  dresses,  sacks,  Garibaldis  and  other  articles  of 
knitted  wool,  such  as  baby  socks,  knitted  sacks  and  the  like,  should 
all  be  washed  in  cold  water,  in  which  a  little  cruie  borax  has  been  dis- 
solved, and  with  fine  white  soap,  white  Castile  is  best,  but  don't  take 
colored  Castile,  as  that  may  stain.  The  process  will  be  found  very 
easy,  and  perfectly  satisfactory ;  the  dirt  will  come  out  in  the  cold 
water  without  any  trouble  ;  there  will  be  no  shrinking,  and  the  col- 
or will  remain  bright  in  the  colored  woolens,  or  fancy  borderings. 

TO   WASH   LACES    AND   NEEDLEWORK. 

Fine  handkerchiefs,  collars,  undersleeves,  chemisettes  and  edg- 
ings should  never  be  put  into  the  large  **  wash,"  they  should  be  kept 
till  a  sufficient  number  has  accumulated,  and  then  on  a  rainy  day, 
when  visitors  are  not  expected,  collect  them,  mend  carefully  evt.ry 


WASHING   DAT.  315 

little  hole,  soap  them  and  put  them  in  a  clean,  bright  tin  pail  that 
will  cover  down  close,  and  fill  up  with  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of 
borax  in  it.  Let  them  come  to  a  slow  boil,  then  squeeze  them 
out ;  if  they  are  very  yellow,  and  very  dirty,  the  operation  may 
nave  to  be  repeated.  Rinse  and  dry ;  in  the  meantime  pour  a  little 
boiling  water  over  a  few  lumps  of  loaf  sugar,  and  if  you  wish  a 
yellow  tinge  add  a  table-spoonful  of  clear  liquid  coffee,  instead  of 
starch ;  lay  the  articles  straight  out  in  clean,  dry  towels,  and  by 
the  time  the  last  one  is  folded  up,  the  first  will  be  ready  to  iron. 
Point  lace  can  be  washed  in  this  way  to  look  like  new. 

BLONDE   LACE,    TO   WASH. 

Very  old  point,  or  blonde  lace,  can  be  washed  successfully  in  the 
following  way.  Wind  the  lace  smoothly  round  a  bottle,  and  a  strip 
of  old  linen  outside  of  it,  so  as  to  cover  it.  Let  it  lay  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  wash  tub  while  the  first  and  best  clothes  are  being  wash- 
ed, and  transfer  it  to  the  top  of  the  clothes  while  they  are  boiling. 
Thence  take  it  and  lay  it  in  boiling  water,  which  has  been  slightly 
colored  with  liquid  coffee,  and  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar.  Press 
out  the  moisture,  and  dry  near  a  fire,  or  in  the  sun,  and  iron  care- 
fully while  still  damp. 

MUSLIN,    LAWN,    OR   PRINT   DRESSES. 

An  excellent,  and  sure  way  to  wash  lawn,  print,  or  muslin  dress- 
es, is  to  put  one  or  two  quarts  of  bran  in  a  bag,  and  boil  it  in  two 
or  four  gallons  of  water.  When  the  strength  is  extracted,  take 
out  the  bag,  and  wash  the  dresses  in  the  bran  water.  It  will  act 
both  as  soap  and  starch,  cleansing  and  stiffening  them  perfectly, 
without  any  danger  to  their  color.  Once  rinsing  is  sufficient,  in 
water  into  which  some  of  the  bran  water  has  been  poured. 

COLORED   STARCH. 

Colored  starch  is  the  latest  and  greatest  novelty  in  the  laundry 
line.  It  is  made  in  pink,  buff,  the  new  mauve,  and  a  delicate 
green,  and  blue  will  soon  be  produced.  Any  article  starched  with 
the  new  preparation  is  completely  colored — dyed  we  should  have 
said,  but  as  it  washes  out,  and  the  garment  that  was  pink  to-day 
may  be  green  to-morrow,  and  buff  afterwards,  we  can  hardly  say 


316  WASHING    DAY. 

*'  dyed."  It  is  intended  especially  for  those  bright  but  treacherous- 
ly colored  muslins,  that  are  costly,  wash  out,  and  perplex  their 
owners.  If  the  pattern  has  been  mauve,  they  only  need  the  mauve 
starch ;  if  green,  green  starch ;  and  they  can  be  rendered  one 
even  and  pretty  shade,  thus  becoming  not  only  wearable  again, 
but  stylish. 

HOW   TO    STARCH    SHIRTS,    AND   OTHER   THINGS. 

Put  into  a  thin  muslin  bag,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  **  best" 
starch.  Soak  it  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  three  pints  of  pure, 
soft  water,  into  which  drop  a  minute  quantity  of  fine  French  "  blue.'' 
Squeeze  all  the  starch  out  of  the  bag,  and  dip  the  shirts,  and  those 
articles  that  require  to  be  very  stiff  first.  Afterwards  it  can  be 
thinned  for  children's  aprons,  and  such  things  as  only  require  to  go 
through  water  starch.  This  quantity  will  stiffen  three  or  four 
dozen  miscellaneous  articles,  which  will  be  ready  for  ironing  im- 
mediately. One  trial  will  convince  the  most  sceptical  that  this 
method  is  infinitely  better,  less  laborious,  and  more  economical  than 
boiled  starch. 

SAVING    SOAP. 

Pour  on  half  a  pound  of  washing  soda  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  take  half  a  pound  of  soap,  cut  up  fine  in  a  saucepan,  and 
pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  cold  water;  let  it  boil,  and  when  per- 
fectly dissolved,  add  it  to  the  other.  Mix  it  well  upon  the  fire, 
set  it  away  to  get  cold,  and  it  will  look  like  jelly.  Soak  your 
clothes  over  night,  rub  them  out  of  the  water,  put  half  a  pint  of 
your  savmg  soap  into  your  boiler,  with  cold  water,  and  put  your 
clothes  into  the  cold  water,  let  all  come  to  a  boil  together,  then 
take  out  the  linen,  and  rinse  thoroughly.  This  will  keep  clothes  a 
splendid  color,  with  half  the  usual  labor. 


THE  DAIRY. 


THE   COWS. 

Attend  very  particularly  to  the  food  and  drink  of  the  cows ; 
and  see  that  they  have  clean  pasture  of  timothy,  or  herds  grass, 
and  have  pure,  clean,  water  to  drink.  If  cows  are  suffered  to  run 
where  they  can  find  such  things  as  leaves,  garlic,  and  weeds,  they 
will  often  eat  them,  and  drink  stagnant  water;  all  of  which  tend 
to  give  a  bad  flavor  to  butter. 

THE   MILK    ROOM. 

The  milk  room  is  much  cooler  when  situated  on  the  north  side 
of  the  house,  where  it  is  not  exposed  to  the  hot  sun  through  the 
whole  day  ;  or  the  shade  of  large  tall  trees  is  very  beneficial.  The 
object  should  be  to  have  it  as  cool  as  possible,  without  being  damp. 
The  room  and  utensils  should  be  kept  as  clean  and  sweet,  as  hot 
and  cold  water  and  pure  air,  can  make  them.  Close  w.itchfulness 
of  the  milk  is  required;  if  it  stands  too  long,  it  will  make  bad 
flavored  butter,  less  of  it,  and  will  require  more  labor  to  churn 
and  work  it.  Strain  your  milk  into  shallow  pans ;  it  should  not 
stand  over  thirty-six  hours ;  if  your  pans  have  no  legs,  that  raise 
them  a  little  from  the  shelves,  place  small  blocks  of  marble  or 
wood,  under  them,  so  that  the  air  can  circulate  under  them.  When 
washing  dairy  pans,  and  pails,  always  put  cold  water  in  them  first 
and  wash  thoroughly;  add  a  little  warm  water  if  you  prefer  it. 

MAKIXCf    BUTTER. 

Cream  should  not  be  kept  more  than  two  days  in  summer,  and 
if  there  is  sufficient  cream  to  churn  daily,  it  is  better  to  do  so. 
Skim  the  milk  before  it  becomes  very  sour ;  pass  a  silver  dj: jon 


318  THE    DAIRY. 

handle  around  the  edge  of  the  pan,  lift  the  cream  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  put  it  immediately  into  the  cream  crock ;  stir  the 
cream  two  or  three  times  each  day  briskly  until  it  is  ready  to  churn, 
when  usually  it  will  come  quickly.  Churning  should  be  done,  dur- 
ing warm  weather,  early  in  the  morning  in  a  cool  place ;  the  dash- 
er ought  to  be  moved  slowly  and  regularly  at  first,  and  then  more 
brisk  until  the  butter  separates  from  the  milk ;  when  it  is  gather- 
ed, wet  the  bowl  and  ladle,  first  with  a  little  warm  water,  and 
then  put  plenty  of  cold  or  ice  water  to  them ;  pour  out  the  water 
and  take  up  the  butter ;  drain  off  as  much  of  the  butter-milk,  as 
possible,  pressing  the  butter  a  moment  gently  with  the  ladle. 

Scatter  a  handful  of  salt  in  the  bowl  before  putting  in  the  butter ; 
then  throw  a  little  salt  upon  the  butter,  and  mix  it  in ;  drain  off 
all  the  water,  and  make  indentations  in  the  butter  with  the  ladle, 
fill  them  with  nice  salt,  and  set  the  bowl  in  a  cool  place.  At  eve- 
ning, when  the  butter  is  hard,  work  it  gently,  without  breaking 
the  grain,  and  squeeze  out  all  the  milk  that  can  be  removed  with- 
out too  much  pressure.  Salt  to  the  taste,  and  let  it  stand  until 
morning,  then  finish  it,  making  it  into  rolls,  or  packing  it.  When 
it  is  finished  and  becomes  hard  or  set,  every  working  over  or 
changing  from  one  vessel  to  another  injures  it,  rendering  it  soft, 
and  pasty,  and  breaking  the  grain.  It  will  never  again  be  as  firm 
or  nice  in  flavor,  and  will  not  keep  sweet  as  long.  If  the  butter 
is  for  packing,  put  it  in  the  firkin  as  soon  as  possible,  from  the  air. 
Pack  close  until  nearly  full,  for  room  should  be  left  to  pour  on 
enough  nice  brine  to  cover  the  butter.  This  is  made  by  pouring 
boiling  water  upon  salt,  and  when  it  is  cold,  straining  it  through  a 
cloth.  Pour  enough  of  this  brine  upon  the  butter  to  cover  it,  say 
a  quarter  of  an  inch,  or  half  an  inch  in  thickness ;  this  kept  upon 
butter  entirely  excludes  the  air,  and  keeps  it  sweet  and  good  as 
when  first  packed.  If  it  is  to  be  sent  away,  pour  off  the  brine, 
saturate  a  cloth  in  it,  lay  it  on  the  top,  and  cover  it  with  a  thick 
laver  of  salt. 


JEWISH  RECEIPTS. 


These  are  all  original  and  reliable, — the  contribution  of  a  su 
perior  Jewish  housekeeper  in  New  York. 


WHITE    STEWED   FISH. 

Put  on  as  much  water  to  boil  as  is  required  to  cover  six  or  eight 
steaks  of  striped  bass,  boil  in  It  one  onion,  sliced  thin,  a  little  ground 
ginger,  salt,  black  pepper  and  a  small  quantity  of  whole  red  pepper. 
When  these  are  done  put  in  your  slices  of  fish ;  when  boiled  take 
them  up  carefully,  drain  them  and  lay  in  a  dish.  Beat  up  six  eggs,  to 
which  add  a  little  nutmeg,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  and. some  parsley 
chopped  fine.  In  a  separate  bowl  strain  the  juice  of  three  or  four 
lemons,  to  this  add  one  half  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  has 
been  boiled,  which  must  be  strained ;  when  this  is  done,  take  the 
liquor  which  is  mixed  with  the  lemons  and  throw  it  into  the  eggs, 
beating  them  all  the  time.  Take  a  china  or  iron  saucepan,  into  it 
put  the  sauce,  set  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  it 
thickens  a  little,  it  must  on  no  account  be  boiled  as  it  will  curdle ; 
then  throw  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  put  it  to  cool.  Chicken 
can  be  served  in  the  same  way. 

BROWN   FRICASSEE   CHICKEN. 

Take  a  chicken,  cut  it  up  in  pieces  and  fry  them  brown,  either  in 
the  best  sweet  oil  or  rendered  fat.  Then  take  six  onions,  slice 
them  and  cover  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  oil  or  fat  to  fry 
them ;  when  soft  take  the  cover  oflT,  so  as  to  let  them  brown,  then 
scald  and  peal  two  tomatoes,  cut  them  up  and  put  them  in  the  pan 
with  the  onions  to  simmer  a  little.  Put  the  fried  chicken  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  onions  etc.,  add  a  little  thyme,  pepper,  salt  and 


320  JEWISH    RECEIPTS. 

a  few  grains  of  allspice,  and  enouj^h  hot  water  to  make  a  rich  gra» 
vy ;  cover  it  up  and  let  it  cook  for  half  an  hour  or  an  hour,  according 
to  the  tenderness  of  the  chicken ;  a  very  small  piece  of  garlic  and 
mace  can  be  added  when  cooking,  if  liked. 

A   GOOD   PUDDING. 

Take  one  half  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  six  ounces  of  white  su- 
gar, pour  over  it  one  half  pint  of  boiling  milk,  let  it  stand  till 
nearly  cold,  then  work  into  it  one  fourth  pound  of  fresh  butter  un- 
til it  becomes  very  white.  Then  add  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
stirring ;  it  must  be  well  beaten  between  each  ;  then  add  the  rind 
grated,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  take  a  mould,  butter  and  paper 
it  well,  then  ornament  it  with  candied  peel  and  raisins,  according 
to  fancy.  Pour  into  it  the  ingredients,  put  a  paper  over  the  top, 
also  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  let  it  steam  gently  for  two  hours.  Serve 
it  with  arrow-root,  or  custard  sauce. 

PURIM   FRITTERS     ' 

Take  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  off  the  crust  and  cut  in  slices 
of  one  half  inch  thick ;  put  them  in  a  dish  and  soak  them  in  cold 
milk,  but  not  so  long  as  to  allow  them  to  mash ;  when  soaked, 
take  them  out  and  drain  them.  Beat  eight  eggs  very  thick,  and 
pour  a  little  of  the  egg  over  each  slice  of  bread,  so  as  to  penetrate 
them  ;  then  take  each  slice  of  bread  and  dip  it  into  the  eggs  that 
are  beaten,  and  fry  a  light  brown  color,  in  rendered  butter,  from 
which  the  salt  has  been  extracted ;  when  this  is  done  sprinkle 
over  the  fritters  a  little  powdered  cinnamon,  and  serve  with  a 
syrup  made  of  white  sugar. 

CODFISH    FRITTERS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  salt  codfish,  put  to  soak  in  water;  when 
fresh  enough,  boil  and  drain ;  pick  out  the  bones,  and  pound  the 
fish  fine  in  a  mortar;  to  this  add  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  a  table -£jpoon  of  butter.  Take  three  or  four  onions, 
chop  fine  and  fry  tnem  in  butter;  scald  and  peel  two  tomatoes, 
and  let  them  simmer  with  the  onions ;  mix  this  with  the  fish 
thoroughly,  add  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  fry  in  small  fritters  a 
light  brown  color 


JEWISH    RECEIPTS.  321 


LEMON  PUDDINGS. 

To  be  added  to  four  eggs,  well-beaten,  one  fourth  pound  of  loaf 
sugar  and  two  ounces  of  butter  which  have  been  previously  well 
mixed  together,  then  the  peel  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one, 
and  bake  either  in  cups  or  pie  dish. 

A    RICHER   LEMON   PUDDING. — 1. 

Six  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  to  be  well-beaten,  and  then 
added  to  three  oun.^es  of  butter  and  one  fourth  of  sugar,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  the  rind  of  two,  which  must  be  taken  by  rubbing 
a  lump  or  two  of  loaf  sugar  upon  it. 


LEMON   PUDDING. 


9 


One  fourth  pound  of  fine  boiled  bread  crumbs  added  to  the 
above,  and  a  little  more  sugar  to  taste,  and  boil  in  a  form. 


APPLE   PUDDING. 

Grate  one  half  pound  of  apples,  mix  with  four  eggs  well-beaten, 
and  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  bake  In  a  form  and  turn  oi.t. 

ALP>ERT    SANDWICHES. 

Take  one  half  pound  of  butter,  melt  it  to  an  oil  befb.'e  the  fire^ 
add  one  half  pound  light  weight  of  flour,  and  one  half  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar;  mix  well  together,  add  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  then 
beat  all  well  together,  either  flavor  with  a  few  pounded  almonds  or 
the  rind  of  lemon  rubbed  on  sugar ;  put  this  mixture  on  well  but- 
tered tins  about  a  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
it  must  be  taken  out  when  it  is  a  very  pale  color,  and  loosened 
whilst  it  is  hot,  from  the  tin,  the  edges  always  get  too  dark,  but  they 
are  cut  off.  When  nearly  baked,  sprinkle  pink  sugar  over  half  the 
quantity.  When  cold  cut  in  diamonds  and  put  svveatmeats  be- 
tween, like  sandwiches ;  arrange  them  nicely  in  the  dish  and 
put  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  the  least  bit  of  si 
gar,  in  the  middle.  The  vanilla  is  best  grated.  Perhaps  you  will 
find  it  easier  to  put  the  mixture  on  buttered  papers  laid  m  tins. 

MERINGUES. 

Take  the  whites  of  eigh^  eggs  quite  fresh  and  just  broken.,  beat 


0'i2  JEWISH    RECEIPTS. 

them  with  a  whisk  till  as  firm  as  possible.  Have  ready  prepared 
eight  table  spoons  of  ground  not  powdered  sugar,  which  mix  with 
the  ^gg  as  quickly  as  possible,  so  as  not  to  give  time  to  melt.  Have 
ready  a  piece  of  board  and  sixteen  pieces  of  white  paper ;  put  a 
tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  each  paper  in  the  shape  of  an  egg ; 
make  it  thick  but  not  too  spread  out,  smooth  them  off  nicely,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  hlow  off  what  sugar  falls  on  the  paper,  and 
then  put  board  and  all  into  the  oven  ;  loatchthem  well  and  take  them 
out  as  soon  as  firm.  Have  ready  another  piece  of  board  with  clean 
papers,  roll  off  the  meringues  on  to  them,  making  them  stand  on 
then  tops ;  take  out  a  little  of  the  inside  with  a  tea-spoon,  and  put 
them  back  in  the  oven  or  the  hoard  for  the  '^side  to  get  firm,  fill 
with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vani^'a  and  some  sugar,  and 
join  the  two  halves  together  to  for*^  an  Qgg, 

The  papers  must  neither  be  buttered  or  have  sugar  on  them,  and 
they  must  not  be  baked  without  boards. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

When  you  make  a  bread  and  butter  pudding,  put  only  the  yolks 
inside,  and  whip  the  whites ;  sweeten  and  flavor,  and  when  the 
pudding  is  baked,  put  this  on  the  top,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  again 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  crisp,  and  you  will  find  it  a  great  improv- 
ment. 

SALLY    LUNN 

Three  table-spoons  butter,  two  table-spoonsful  sugar,  two  cups 
milk,  scant  four  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  of  tartar.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Eat  hot, 
spread  with  butter. 

ANOTHER  METHOD   IS   AS   FOLLOWS. 

One  pint  of  flour,  piece  of  butter  half  as  large  as  an  egg,  one 
egg,  two  table-spoonsful  sugar,  one  tea-cup  milk,  one  tea-spoonful 
cream  of  tartar,  one  half  tea-spoonful  soda,  one  tea-spoon  salt. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

CUP     CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  on* 


JEWISH    RECEIPTS.  323 

teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  tea-cup  of  milk.     Two  tea-spoonsful 
cream  tartar,  flavor  to  fancy. 

HICKORY   NUT   CAKE. 

Three  cups  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  but- 
ter, one  pint  hickory  nuts,  one  half  cup  milk,  one  half  tea-spoon 
soda. 

MARMALADE. 

Twenty-four  yolks  of  eggs,  one  half  pound  white  sugar,  clarify, 
boil,  and  strain ;  add  one  table-spoonful  beaten  sweet  almonds  to 
the  syrup,  while  boiling.  When  the  syrup  cools,  pour  the  eggs, 
which  must  be  well  beaten,  with  a  spoon  gently.  Keep  stirring 
on  a  gentle  fire,  till  it  becomes  thick. 

ORGENT. 

Two  pounds  sugar ;  clarify  and  make  thick,  three  ounces  sweet 
almonds,  one  ounce  bitter  almonds,  well  beaten  fine,  one  quart 
water  to  the  almonds,  stir  up  well,  and  then  squeeze ;  add  them 
to  the  syrup,  and  boil ;  when  cold  add  orange  flower  and  rose 
water  according  to  taste. 

COCOA   NUT   PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  ground  cocoa  nut,  one  pound  of  crushed  sugar 
made  into  a  syrup,  one  half  pint  water,  six  eggs. 

Throw  the  cocoa  nut  in  the  syrup,  when  boiling,  and  let  it  cook 
say  ten  minutes,  stirring  it  occasionally  to  keep  from  burning ;  when 
'perfectly  cold  throw  in  your  eggs,  and  beat  them  well  in.  then 
bake  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

CUP   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  five  cups  flour,  jne  nutmeg,  four 
egg9   a  little  saleratus 

SWEET    CRACKERS. 

One  pint  flour,  three  fourths  cup  sugar,  two  spoonsful  of  cinna- 
mon, one  fourth  pound  butter,  a  little  salt. 

Roll  very  thin ;  bake  quick ;  mix  all  up  in  a  dough  with  sweet 
milk. 


324  JEWISH    RECEIPTS. 


ALMOND   PUDDING. 

Pound  together  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  six  or  seven 
bitter  almonds,  mix  with  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  a  little  fine 
orange  flower  water,  and  the  yolks  of  ten  and  the  whites  of  seY9n 
well-whisked  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half 
an  hour,  or  until  it  is  sufficently  firm  to  turn  out  of  the  dish ;  sift 
sugar  thickly  over  it  or  pour  round  it  a  rich  syrup  flavored  with 
orenge  flower  water;  serve  hot  or  cold. 

LEMON  DUMPLINGS. 

Three  fourths  pounds  of  flour,  one  half  pound  moist  sugar,  the 
juice  of  two  lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  one,  one  half  pound  of 
chopped  suet,  all  well  mixed  together  with  very  little  water  ;  make 
with  it  six  dumplings.  To  boil  without  ceasing,  for  one  hour,  and 
be  eaten  as  soon  as  served  with  melted  butter,  well  sweetened, 
and  the  rind  of  one  lemon  in  it,  or  any  other  sweet  sauce  will  do. 

LIGHT    PUDDING. 

Beat  five  yolks  with  sugar  to  suit,  add  two  tea-spoons  very  full 
of  flour,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon ;  lastly  add  the 
five  whites  beaten  well  to  frost,  and  bake  immediately ;  it  takes 
about  half  an  hour  to  cook ;  grease  the  dish,  serve  a  sauce 
with  it  if  liked. 

TOMATOES   FOR  WINTER   USE. 

See  that  your  tomatoes  are  quite  fresh,  else  they  will  break 
the  bottles  when  they  ferment.  Pour  scalding  water  over  them, 
and  take  off  the  skins.  It  is  usual  to  remove  all  the  green  parts, 
though  some  housekeepers  think  it  is  not  necessary.  Put  them 
over  the  fire  in  a  tin,  or  china  Hned  saucepan,  and  let  them  boil 
half  an  hour.  Have  your  cans  ready,  fill  them  full,  and  screw 
them  tight;  they  require  no  seasoning  till  you  are  ready  to  use 
them.  Then  add  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram  and  onion. 
Too  much  seasoning  spoils  the  taste  of  the  tomato,  but  a  little  of 
these  herbs  is  an  addition  ;  also  add  grated  bread  crumbs  and  but- 
ter; they  are  much  improved  by  putting  them  in  a  deep  dish; 
season  as  above,  and  spread  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  or 


JEWISH    RECEIPTS.  825 

grate  the  oread,  and  add  the  butter ;  put  them  In  the  oven  and  bake 
till  brown. 

PICKLED    CUCUMBERS. 

Put  them  in  a  wooden  or  stone  vessel,  pour  over  strong  salt  and 
water  boiling  hot,  put  a  weight  on  to  keep  them  under  the  pickle. 
Alter  three  days  pour  it  off,  boil  and  turn  it  over  them  again  ; 
stand  three  days  again  ;  then  take  them  out  and  let  them  lie  one 
night  in  plain  cold  water ;  next  day  put  them  over  the  fire,  but  do 
not  let  them  boil,  allowing  one  table-spoonful  of  alum  to  a  gallon 
of  vinegar;  mace,  cinnamon,  peppercorns,  white  and  black,  mus- 
tard seed  and  grated  horseradish.  One  table-spoonful  of  each  to 
every  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  tumeric.  Fold 
a  double  piece  of  linen  and  a  soft  thick  brown  paper,  and  tie  the 
jars  tight;  throw  in  the  vinegar,  keep  in  a  dry  place.  A  bladder 
and  linen  cloth  are  nice  to  be  over  the  pots. 


FAYOEITE    DISHES    OF    DISTINGUISHED 
PEKSONS. 


President  Grant  is  very  fond  of  scrambled  eggs  and  fried 
ham  ;  but  this  must  be  cut  thin  and  crisply  frizzled. 

Louis  Napoleon  has  an  inordinate  liking  for  chocolate.  He  has 
a  cup  of  chocolate  served  him  while  in  his  bath-tub  every  morning ; 
and  during  the  war  in  Italy,  before,  during,  and  after  the  battle 
of  Solferino — a  period  covering  three  days — he  ate  nothing  but 
common  cake  chocolate.  He  had  a  package  of  it  in  his  hol- 
sters. 

yictoria  relishes  boiled  mutton  caper  sauce.  Has  a  hearty 
meal  of  it  every  day  at  two,  when  she  sits  down  with  her  chil- 
dren. Never  eats  any  thing  at  state  banquets,  because  she  dines 
so  heartily  off  mutton,  at  two,  that  she  has  no  appetite  left.  Also 
very  fond  of  a  cup  of  tea.  During  one  of  her  visits  to  the  camp 
at  Aldershott,  she  went  and  peeped  in  at  the  tent  of  a  nameless 
young  officer,  and  asked  him  if  he  had  an}^  tea.  He  handed  her 
his  caddy,  and  she  went  in  and  drew  it  herself. 

Princess  of  Prussia — Yictoiia's  eldest  daughter—  is,  it  is  re- 
ported, so  extremely  fond  of  ice-cream  that  she  has  injured  her 
health  by  over-indulgence  in  her  favorite  dish. 

Eugenie,  French  empress,  of  all  things  relishes  an  omelet  with 
onions.  This  is  due  to  her  Spanish  taste,  which  often  shows 
itself  very  strongly  in  sometimes  not  very  admirable  w^ays. 

Patti  worships  boiled  macaroni,  with  tomato  sauce.  Rossini, 
the  composer,  first  gave  her  the  taste  for  this ;  being  himself  a 
superb  cook,  he  often  prepared  it  for  her  bird-like  palate. 

Louis  Xn.,  when  he  invaded  Italy,  made  many  cooks  prison 
ers;  many  of  their  good  dishes  we  still  enjoy.  Emperors  may 
perish — WiQ  fricassee  will  survive. 

From  the  days  of  Leo  X.,  we  have  the  fricandeau^  that  deli- 
cious dish  of  veal.  Larded,  spiced,  and  surrounded  bj^  vegetables, 


FAVORITE   DISHES    OF   DISTINGUISHED   PERSONS.     327 

carrots,  onions,  and  parsley,  it  was  slowly  steamed  and  served 
with  Macedonian  sauce. 

To  this  period  of  luxury  we  are  indebted  also  for  the  introduc- 
tion of  forks.  The  Romans  knew  them  not.  Mankind  required 
five  thousand  five  hundred  and  some  years  to  invent  the  frican 
deau  and  the  use  of  forks. 

Louis  XIV.  became  very  fastidious  about  his  table,  and  Ma- 
dame de  Maintenon  originated  her  celebrated  cutlets,  {Cotelettes  d 
la  Maintenon.)  She  steamed  them  first  for  an  hour  with  mush- 
rooms, shallots,  parsle}^  and  butter,  then  added  pepper  and  salt, 
and  small  pieces  of  bacon,  cut  in  the  form  of  a  heart ;  wrapped 
them  in  oiled  letter-paper,  and  broiled  them  on  a  very  slow  fire, 
so  that  the  paper  absorbed  all  the  fat ;  lastly  w^as  added  a  large 
spoonful  of  velontee  sauce,  composed  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
beaten  to  a  cream,  lemon-juice,  and  a  minute  portion  of  Spanish 
pepper.  What  a  tender  proof  of  loving  solicitude !  From  that 
time  also  dates  the  invention  of  liqueurs.  Distillation  and  the 
alchemist's  art  were  brought  to  Europe  by  the  Crusaders.  Brandy 
was  not  generally  used  before  Louis  XIV.'s  time. 

Under  Louis  XV.,  Madame  de  Pompadour  invented  the  "  ta 
hies  volantes^^^  (flying  tables,)  which  descended  and  ascende<i 
from  the  kitchen,  somewhat  similar  to  the  dumb-waiters  of  mod 
ern  invention. 

HENRY    WARD    BEECHEr's    FAVORITE. TURTLE    BEAN   SOUP. 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pints  of  turtle  beans,  in  cold  water,  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  ofif  the  water,  wash  the  beans  in 
fresh  water,  and  put  into  the  soup  digester,  wdth  four  quarts  of 
good  beef  stock,  from  w^hich  all  the  fat  has  been  removed.  Set  it 
where  it  will  boil  steadily  but  slowly,  till  dinner,  or  five  hours, 
at  the  least — six  is  better.  Two  hours  before  dinner  put  in  half 
a  can  of  tomatoes,  or  eight  fresh  ones,  and  a  large  coffee-cup  of 
tomato  catsup.  One  onion,  a  carrot,  and  a  few  of  the  outside 
stalks  of  celery,  cut  into  the  soup  with  the  tomatoes,  improves  it 
for  most  people.  Strain  through  a  fine  colander,  or  coarse  sieve, 
rubbing  through  enough  of  the  beans  to  thicken  the  soup,  and 
Bend  to  table  hot. 


328     FAVORITE    DISHES    OF    DISTINGUISHED    PERSONS. 

In  a  note  accompanying  this  receipt,  Mrs.  Beecher  says  : 

**  After  straining,  I  sometimes  return  the  soup  to  the  *  diges* 
ter,'  bring  to  a  boil,  and  break  in  four  or  five  eggs,  and  as  soon 
as  the  whites  have  *  set ' — a  very  little — dish  the  soup  and  bring 
to  the  table  with  the  slightly  cooked  eggs  floating  on  the  top. 
There  should  be  eggs  enough  to  take  one  out  for  every  person  at 
the  table." 

HENRY   WARD    BEECHEr's   BISCUITS. 

Peel  and  boil  two  large  potatoes  in  just  water  enough  to  cover. 
When  done,  mash  smoothly,  and  adding  a  half  a  pint  of  the  wa- 
ter in  which  they  were  boiled  while  hot,  rub  it  through  a  "  colan- 
der" or  coarse  sieve ;  add  half  a  pint  sweet  milk,  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful salt,  one  table-spoonful  sugar,  and  flour  t<>  make  a  stiif  bat- 
ter. When  cool,  add  half  a  penny's  worth  of  baker's  or  half  a 
cup  home-made  yeast,  which  is  better.  Let  it  rise  thoroughly  ; 
then  rub  a  tea-cup  of  butter  into  sufficient  flour  to  mou'd.  (If 
warm  weather,  it  is  well  to  dissolve  a  half  tea  spoonful  of  soda, 
and  stir  into  the  batter.)  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  stiff,  and 
stir  in  with  the  butter  and  flour,  being  careful  to  use  as  little 
flour  as  possible,  and  have  it  stiff  enough  for  moulding;  then 
knead  half  an  hour.  If  light  too  early  for  tea,  put  it  into  the 
cellar  or  refrigerator,  until  within  an  hour  of  tea-time — when  it 
should  be  kneaded  fifteen  minutes,  cut  into  small  biscuits,  and 
set  to  rise  till  as  light  as  possible  without  souring ;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  done,  cover  over  closely  with  a  clean  bread- 
cloth,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  pan  a  few  minutes  to  soften ; 
then  send  to  the  table.  Tiiey  should  be  light  as  a  puff,  and  very 
tender. 

ALICE    cart's    plum-pudding. 

{Original  Receipt,) 

To  eight  ounces  of  fine  bread-crumbs  add  six  of  beef-suet, 
fresh,  and  chopped  small ;  six  of  raisins,  weighed  after  they  are 
stoned ;  six  of  carefully  cleaned  currants,  four  ounces  of  chopped 
npples,   four  of  sugar,  two  of  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel 


FAVORITE    DISHES    OF    DISTINGUISHED   PERSONS.     329 

mixed,  two  of  candied  citron,  a  whole  nutmeg  grated,  four  eggs, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  small  wine-glass  of  brandy.  Soak  the 
bread-crumbs  in  a  small  pint  of  milk  half  an  hour;  add  the 
other  ingredients,  mix  well,  boil  three  hours  in  a  mould,  and 
serve  with  rich  wine  sauce. 

Herodotus'   pudding. 
(A   Genuine  Classical  Beceipt.) 

**  Prepare  and  mix  in  the  usual  manner  one  pound  of  fine 
raisins  stoned,  one  pound  of  minced  beef-suet,  half  a  pound  of 
bread-crumbs,  four  figs  chopped  small,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
moist  sugar,  {honey^  in  the  oiiginal,)  two  wine-glassfuls  of  sherry, 
and  the  rind  of  half  a  large  lemon,  (grated.)  Boil  the  pudding  for 
fourteen  hours ^ 

Ohs, — This  receipt  is  really  to  be  found  in  Herodotus.  The 
only  variations  made  in  it  are  the  substitution  of  sugar  for  honey, 
and  sherry  for  the  wine  of  ancient  Greece.  Half  the  quantity  of 
suet  would,  we  think,  be  an  inprovement,  and  half  the  time  for 
boiling. 

PHCEBE  Gary's  boiled  apple-dumplings. 

Peel  and  core  large  greening  apples,  of  a  uniform  size,  and  fill 
the  cavity  with  clear  lemon  marmalade.  Inclose  each  one  in  a 
nice  paste,  rolled  rather  thin,  and  draw  small  knitted  cloths 
over  them,  which  gives  them  a  very  pretty  effect.  Tie  them  close, 
and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  an  hour,  if  the  crust  is 
made  with  suet.     Serve  with  hard  sauce,  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

pn(EBE  cart's  compote  of  apples. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  a  pint  of  water 
into  which  squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  it  is  clear, 
and  boiling,  drop  into  it  a  dozen  or  more  fine,  sound,  tart  apples, 
p  eled  and  cored,  and  let  them  boil  gently  until  they  are  per- 
fectly tender.  AVhen  done,  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  throw 
into  the  syrup  a  few  thin  strips  of  lemon-rind,  lei.  them  boil  a  few 


330     FAVORITE    DISHES    OF    DISTINGUISHED   PERSONS. 

minutes,  and  then  pour  them,  with  the  syrup,  over  the  apples 
Set  away  to  cool. 

PH(EBE   Gary's  snow-balls. 

Peel,  and  take  out  the  cores  of  six  large  baking-apples,  equal 
size.  Fill  the  holes  with  quince  marmalade,  and  roll  the  apples  in 
pounded  loaf-sugar.  Then  cover  them  with  a  smooth,  good  paste, 
of  equal  thickness,  and  bake  them  a  light  brown  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Have  an  icing  prepared,  flavored  with  lemon,  with  which 
cover  them  thickly,  and  set  them  near  enough  to  the  fire  to  har- 
den, but  not  to  become  brown. 

ANNA  Dickinson's  tenderloin  of  beef  garnished  with  mush- 
rooms. 

An  intimate  friend  of  Miss  Anna  Dickinson's  says  of  her: 
**  Anna  detests  every  thing  fried — fried  potatoes,  fried  eggs,  or 
fried  mush,  while  fried  beefsteak,  such^  as  housekeepers  in  the 
West  are  often  heathen  enough  to  serve  strangers,  has  power  to 
drive  her  to  pull  her  hair  out  of  curl." 

Her  favorite  dish  is  prepared  in  the  following  way  : 
Take  one  pound  of  tenderloin  of  beef,  cut  thick,  and  broil 
it  over  a  clear  fire.  Turn  it  quickly  half  a  dozen  times,  and 
when  just  done,  remove  it  carefully  from  the  gridiron,  in  order 
to  preserve  the  gravy,  and  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  upon  which  a 
piece  of  butter  is  melting,  and  which  has  been  sprinkled  with 
pepper  and  salt.  In  the  mean  time  cook  a  dozen  button  mush- 
rooms, by  putting  them  in  a  wire  basket,  and  setting  them  on 
the  range.  Shake  into  their  cups  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
while  cooking,  they  will  fill  with  gravy.  Five  minutes  or  less 
will  do  them  sufficiently ;  then  lift  them  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
spill  the  gravy,  and  arrange  them  round  the  tenderloin,  which 
should  have  been  just  taken  from  the  fire. 


^ 


SUSAN   B.    ANTHONY  S   APPLE   TAPIOCA    PUDDING. 


Susan  B.  Anthony  is  an  excellent  cook  and  housekeeper,  and 
it  was  a  proverb  at  home  that,  when  Susan  did  the  housekeeping, 


FAVOEITOfi    DISHES    OF    DISTINGUISHED   PERSONS.     331 

the  meals  were  always  punctual  and  well  served.  She  believes 
in  a  plain,  simple  diet,  and  the  following  is  her  favorite  pudding : 
Peel  and  core  eight  apples,  fill  them  with  sugar  in  which  a 
little  nutmeg  has  been  grated.  Take  a  cupful  of  tapioca,  which 
has  all  night  been  soaking  in  water,  add  to  it  a  little  milk  or 
water  if  needed,  and  pour  it  round  the  apples,  which  have  been 
laid  in  a  buttered  dish.  Bake  slowly  one  hour,  and  serve  with 
cream  and  powdered  sugar.  It  is  good  hot  or  cold,  the  tapioca 
forming  a  jelly  round  the  apples. 

OLIVE  Logan's  veal  cutlets  in  papillottes,  (curl-papers.) 

Trim  the  cutlets  neatly,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  them  in  clarified  butter.  While  they  are  cooking,  chop  some 
mushrooms,  parsley,  and  three  shallots,  add  to  them  the  piece  of 
half  a  lemon,  a  table-spoonful  of  meat  jelly,  two  of  white  sauce, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Simmer  the  mixture  over  the  fire,  add  two 
yolks  of  eggs,  toss  all  together  till  thoroughly  mixed,  then  let  it 
become  cool.  Then  take  as  many  sheets  of  large-sized  note- 
paper  as  there  are  cutlets,  cut  each  somewhat  in  the  form  of  a 
heart,  and  then  let  them  be  oiled.  Next,  place  a  cutlet  with 
an  equal  proportion  of  the  sauce  in  one  of  these  papers,  and 
with  the  fore-finger  and  thumb  of  the  right  hand,  twist  the  edges 
of  the  paper  tightly  under  into  very  close  folds  ;  and  repeat  this 
with  the  remainder.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  sending  to 
table,  put  the  cutlets  in  the  oven  in  a  Sauta-pan,  to  get  warm 
through ;  then,  with  a  heated  iron  skewer,  mark  the  papers  so 
as  to  make  it  appear  that  they  have  been  broiled  ;  dish  them  Mp 
Q>^  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley  in  the  centre. 


SOEOSIS    RECEIPTS 


The  following  twenty  receipts  are  the  tried  methods  of  one  of 
the  best  cooks  and  housekeepers  in  the  country,  and  the  Chair- 
woman also  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Sorosis, 


VERY   NICE   BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  milk,  raised ;  when  light,  add  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  egg,  one  table-spoonful  white  sugar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda ;  raise  again  ;  roll  thin,  and  bake  quickly. 

INDIAN    MUFFINS. 

One  table-spoonful  of  yeast,  one  pint  of  water,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter  ;  let  them  rise  through  the  night.  In  the 
morning  add  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  a  coffee-cup  and  a  half  of 
milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  some  salt,  and  two  eggs.  Beat  the 
mixture  well  before  putting  it  into  the  rings  to  bake. 

CORN-CAKE 

Take  two  cups  corn-meal,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,, one  tea-spoonful 
soda,  three  eggs,  three  table-spoonfuls  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  milk,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Rub  meal,  flour,  salt, 
goda  and  cream  of  tartar  through  a  sieve,  which  will  mix  them 
thoroughly.  Then  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  adding  to 
them  the  butter  melted.  Next  add  the  milk,  and  last  of  all  stir 
in  the  previously  mixed  meal,  flour,  salt,  soda,  and  cream  of  tar- 
tar. Bake  immediately  and  rapidly  to  secure  the  escaping  gas. 
Twenty  minutes  will  finish  it  in  a  brisk  oven. 


SOROSIS   RECEIPTS.  333 

DROP    BISCUIT. 

Cup  of  rnilk,  one  egg,  cup  of  flour,  one  spoonful  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  and  eat  as  soon  as 
possible. 

BAKED    MUFFINS. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  (you  can  use  sweet  milk  and 
cream  of  tartar.)  Stir  a  stiff  batter,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings. 
They  are  best  made  with  one  cup  of  cream  and  one  cup  of  sour 
milk. 

CRUMPETS. 

Mix  a  gill  of  yeast  with  two  quarts  of  water,  just  lukewarm, 
to  which  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thinnish  batter,  and  let 
it  stand  six  hours  in  a  warm  place,  when  stir  it  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  let  it  remain  four  hours  longer.;  when  bake 
in  muffin-rings. 

RYE   DROP   CAKE. 

One  pint  of  milk  and  three  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar  and 
a  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  rye  flour  till  about  the  consis- 
tency of  pancakes.  Bake  in  buttered  cups  or  saucers  half  an 
hour. 

SALLY    LUNN. 

Seven  cups  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  tea-cup  of  butter,  warmed  in 
a  pint  of  milk,  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  three  well-beaten 
eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  brewer's  yeast.  If  the  yeast  is  home- 
made, use  twice  as  much.  Pour  this  into  square  pans  to  rise,  and 
then  bake  it  before  it  sours. 

PUDDINGS. 

MARLBOROUGH    PUDDING. 

Six  tart  apples,  six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  six  ounces  of  but- 
ter, or  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  six  eggs,  the  grated  peel  of  one 
lemon,  and  half  the  juice ;  grate  the  apples  after  paring  and 


334  SOROSIS   RECEIPTS. 

coring  them ;  stir  together  the  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake , 
then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  in  a  rich  paste. 

MARKOW    PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  ladies'  finger  cakes,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  beef  marrow,  chopped  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants 
well  cleaned,  half  an  ounce  of  candied  lemon-peel,  a  little  nut- 
meg, a  table-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  wine-glassful  of  wine  or  brandy  ;  put  these  on  a  dish 
and  fill  up  with  custard,  having  previously  put  a  border  of  paste 
on  the  rim  ;  about  half  an  hour  will  do  it. 

eve's   pudding. 

Half  a  pound  of  beef  suet  and  half  a  tea- spoonful  of  salt,  half 
a  pound  of  pared  and  chopped  apples,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins  dredged 
with  flour,  five  eggs,  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  glass  of  brandy  ;  chop 
and  mix  the  suet  and  apples  ;  beat  the  suet  into  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  ;  mix  all,  putting  in  the  whites ;  cut  to  a  stiff  froth  just  be- 
fore going  into  the  oven  ;  bake  two  hours. 

FLOUR   PUDDING. 

Five  eggs,  five  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
milk,  a  little  salt.  After  the  pudding  has  been  in  the  oven  ten 
minutes,  take  a  spoon  and  stir  it  around  well ;  to  be  eaten  with 
any  kind  of  sauce. 

COTTAGE    PUDDING. 

One  pint  bowl  of  flour,  one  tea-cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  half  tea- 
cup of  sugar,  one  tea-spoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk, 
two  tea-spoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  rubbed  in  the  flour  ;  bake 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.     Sauce. 

AGNES    noble's    PREMIUM    SPONGE   CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  ten  eggs.  Beat 
the  sugar  and  yolks  together.     Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 


SOROSIS   KECEIPTS.  335 

add  them  to  the  sugar,  then  stir  the  flour  in  gently,  and  tho 
juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  if  large. 

JELLY    CAKE, 

To  three  well-beaten  eggs  add  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
one  of  flour,  stir  well,  and  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  three  tea-spoonfuls  of 
water ;  bake  in  two  pie-pans  spread  as  evenly  as  possible  ;  have 
ready  a  towel,  and  as  soon  as  done  turn  the  cake  on  it,  bottom 
side  up ;  then  spread  evenly  with  jelly ;  roll  up  quickly  and 
wrap  in  the  towel. 

LEMON    CAKE. 

Four  tumblers  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  of  powdered  white 
sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  tumbler  of  butter,  one  tumbler  of  milk, 
two  lemons,  three  eggs,  and  one  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  soda — 
saleratus  will  do,  but  is  not  so  good  as  soda.  This  serves  for 
two  square  loaves.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk ;  beat  the 
yolks  and  strain  them  ;  cut  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  work  the 
butter  and  sugar  till  they  look  like  cream,  then  add  the  yolks, 
then  the  milk,  then  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  then  the  flour;  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  grate  in  the  peel  of  one  lemon,  and  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  two,  and  this  must  not  be  done  till  it  is  ready  to  set 
immediately  in  the  oven.  A  tumbler  and  a  half  of  currants  im- 
proves this  cake.     Put  them  in  with  the  lemon-juice. 

MOCK    TURTLE    SOUP. 

Get  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on,  (the  fresher  the  better, 
take  out  the  brains,  wash  the  head  several  times  in  cold  water, 
let  it  soak  in  water  for  about  an  hour,  then  lay  it  in  a  stew-pan, 
and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  half  a  gallon  over.  As  it 
becomes  warm,  a  great  deal  of  scum  will  rise,  which  must  be 
immediately  removed.  Let  it  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  take  it 
up,  and  when  almost  cold  cut  the  head  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
and  a  half  by  an  inch  and  a  quarter,  and  the  tongue  into  mouth- 
fuls  ;  or  rather,  make  a  side-dish  of  the  tongue  and  brains. 


33G  SOROSIS    RECEIPTS. 

When  the  head  is  taken  out,  put  in  the  stock-meat — about  five 
pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal  and  as  much  beef^ — add  to  the  stock 
all  the  triuimings  and  bones  of  the  head,  skim  it  well,  and  then 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  boil  five  hours  ;  then  strain  it  off,  and 
let  it  stand  till  the  next  morning.  Then  take  off  the  fat,  set  a 
large  stew-pan  on  the  fire  with  half  a  pound  of  good  fresh  but- 
ter, twelve  ounces  of  onions  shced,  and  four  ounces  of  green 
sage ;  chop  it  a  little ;  let  these  fry  one  hour,  then  rub  in  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  and  by  degrees  add  your  broth  till  it  is  the 
thickness  of  cream ;  season  it  with  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
ground  allspice,  and  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper ;  salt  to  your 
taste,  and  add  the  rind  of  one  lemon  peeled  very  thin ;  let  it  sim- 
mer very  gently  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  strain  it  through 
a  hair-sieve.  Do  not  rub  your  soup  to  get  it  through  the  sieve, 
or  it  will  make  it  grouty.  If  it  does  not  run  through  easily, 
knock  your  wooden  spoon  against  the  side  of  your  sieve ;  put  it 
in  a  clean  stew-pan  with  the  head,  and  season  it  by  adding  to 
each  gallon  of  soup  half  a  pint  of  wine — this  should  be  Madeira, 
or,  if  you  wish  to  darken  the  color  of  your  soup,  claret — and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  lemon-juice.  Let  it  simmer  gently  till 
the  meat  is  tender.  This  may  take  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
hour ;  take  care  it  is  not  over-done.  Stir  it  frequently,  to  pre- 
vent the  meat  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan ;  and  when 
the  meat  is  quite  tender,  the  soup  is  ready. 

While  the  soup  is  doing,  prepare  for  each  tureen  a  dozen  and 
a  half  of  force-meat  and  egg-balls,  and  put  them  into  the  tureen. 
Brain-balls  or  cakes  are  a  very  elegant  addition,  and  are  made 
b}'  boiling  the  brains  for  ten  minutes,  then  putting  them  in  cold 
water,  and  cutting  them  in  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  large  nut- 
meg ;  take  savory  or  lemon,  thyme  dried  and  finely  powdered, 
nutmeg  grated,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and  pound  them  all  tcgb- 
ther;  beat  up  an  egg  and  dip  the  brains  in  it;  and  then  roll 
them  in  this  mixture,  and  make  as  much  of  it  as  possible  stick 
to  them  ;  dip  them  in  the  egg  again,  and  then  in  finely-grated 
and  sifted  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  them  in  hot  fat,  and  send  them  up 
as  a  side-dish. 


SOROSIS    RECEIPTS  337 


FOKCE-MEAT    BALLS    FOR    TURTLE,    MOCK    TURTLE,    OR    MADE    DISHES. 

Pound  some  veal  in  a  marble  mortar ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
with  as  much  of  the  udder  as  you  have  veal,  or  about  a  third  of 
the  quantity  of  butter;  put  some  bread  crumbs  into  a  stew-pan ; 
moisten  them  with  milk  ;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  es- 
chalot ;  rub  them  well  together  in  a  mortar  till  they  form  a 
smooth  paste ;  put  it  through  a  sieve,  and,  when  cold,  pound, 
and  mix  all  together,  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard. 
Season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  curry-powder,  or  cayenne  ;  add 
to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  ;  rub  it  well  together,  and  make 
small  balls ;  ten  minutes  before  your  soup  is  ready,  put  them  in. 


EGCx-BAL'LS. 

Boil  four  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  them  into  cold  water ; 
w^hen  they  are  quite  cold,  put  the  yolks  into  a  mortar,  with  the 
yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  same  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on  a  shilling,  and  a  little  black  pep- 
per or  cayenne ;  rub  them  well  together ;  roll  them  into  small 
l>alls,  as  they  swell  in  boiling ;  boil  them  a  couple  of  minutes. 


BEIGNET   SOUFFLE. 

Put  in  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  milk  or  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  or 
any  flavor  you  please ;  give  it  a  boil ;  throw  in  some  flour ;  keep 
stirring  all  the  time  until  it  becomes  quite  thick,  and  no  longer 
tastes  of  the  flour,  and  detaches  itself  from  the  pan.  It  will  take 
about  half  an  hour,  as  the  better  it  is  done  the  lighter  it  is ; 
withdraw  it  from  the  fire ;  stir  in  six  eggs,  one  at  a  time ;  sift 
about  two  ounces  of  sugar  until  the  paste  is  of  the  stiffness  of 
puff'-paste ;  have  ready  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  into  which  drop  by  a 
spoon  small  pieces  of  paste — it  will  increase  their  size — and 
when  a  nice  color  take  them  out ;  drain  and  dish  on  a  napkin 
with  sifted  sugar  over. 


338  SOROSIS    RECEIPTS. 

MAYONNAISE    SAUCE    FOR    CHICKEN    OR    LOBSTER    SALAD —A    l.A    DEL- 
MONICO. 

Break  the  3^olks  of  three  eggs  into  a  salad-howl ;  add  a  little 
salt  and  white  pepper,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  with  the  riglit 
hand,  while  with  the  left  you  add  mry  gradually  about  half  a 
bottle  of  oil ;  add  about  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  (more  or  less 
according  to  its  strength,)  and  add  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
This  sauce  must  be  very  smoothly  blended ;  if  not  sufficiently  so, 
add  a  few  drops  of  fresh  w^ater ;  if  then  it  will  not  blend  smoothly, 
add  hy  degrees  the  yolk  of  another  egg.  Roast  or  boil  one  or 
more  chickens  ;  when  sufficiently  done,  remove  the  flesh  from 
the  wings  and  legs,  cut  in  slices,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar. 

AVhen  you  make  a  chicken  mayonnais,  place  the  fowl  on  a  dish, 
cut  in  ten  pieces,  garnished  with  leek  and  hard  eggs,  olives, 
capers,  etc. 

If  it  is  a  chicken  salad  mayonnais,  cut  the  chicken  in  dice, 
season  with  the  salad  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  mayonnaise,  and 
adorn  with  leeks,  eggs,  olives,  capers,  etc. 

SPANISH    SAUCE. 

Brown  some  flour  in  butter ;  moisten  with  water  or  stock ; 
add  vegetables,  such  as  carrots  and  tomatoes,  and  a  well-roasted 
knuckle  of  veal ;  cook  two  hours,  then  strain,  first  through  a 
colander,  then  through  muslin. 

VELVET   SAUCE. 

Make  the  sauce  as  above,  but  do  not  let  the  flour  and  butter 
hrown.  The  sauce  must  be  kept  white,  therefore  do  not  roast 
the  veal. 

LOBSTER — A    LA    CORDELAISB. 

(Delmonico' 8  Eeceipt.) 

Cut  onions  and  carrots  into  small  dice,  and  fry  lightly  in  beef- 
marrow  and  oil.  Divide  a  lobster  into  six,  each  claw  into  two 
pieces ;  add  these  to  the  vegetables  with  half  a  bottle  of  good 


SOROSIS    RECEIPTS.  339 

white  wine,  a  little  garlic,  and  some  parsley ;  boil  on  a  quick  lire 
until  reduced  to  a  sauce  ;  season  highly,  and  serve.  (This  may 
be  thickened  with  Spanish  sauce  or  'velonte,) 

AUBERGINE    FARCIS — EGG-PLANT    STUFFED. 

{DelmonMs  JReceipt.) 

V  Cut  an  egg-^lant  in  halves,  lengthwise,  pass  the  blade  of  a 
knife  through  it,  near  the  edge,  and  fry  lightly  a  few  moments 
in  oil  ;  take  it  out  of  the  oil  and  remove  the  interior. 
Cut  a  shallot  in  small  dice  and  fry  in  oil ;  add  three  or  foui 
fresh  mushrooms,  some  finely-chopped  herbs,  and  the  interior 
of  the  egg-plant ;  mix  it  with  your  force-meat ;  also  some  well- 
seasoned  bread-crumbs,  and  a  little  meat  jelly  or  Spanish  sauce, 
fill  the  egg-plant;  roll  it  in  bread-crumbs  and  moisten  with 
oil ;  leave  it  to  brown  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven. 

SOUP   A   LA    CONDE. 

(Belmonico's  Receipt.) 

Soak  a  pint  of  red  haricot  beans  over  night  in  water ;  the  next 
day  moisten  them  with  (bouillon)  stock  or  water ;  add  salt,  an 
onion,  a  few  cloves,  a  carrot,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  boil  all 
together  thoroughly  ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve ;  warm  and 
thicken  with  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter; 
blend  by  continual  stirring ;  season  with  salt  and  a  very  little 
nutmeg. 

POTATO  BOULETTES — A  LA  DELMONICO. 

Boil  a  dozen  dry,  mealy  potatoes,  mash  them  smoothly,  and  mix, 
while  still  warm,  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  small  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  four  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately.  Mould  the  mixture  into  small  oval  forms,  and 
drop  them  into  clear  boiling  butter.  Cook  them  until  they  are  a 
pale  brown,  take  them  up  quickly  with  a  skimmer,  and  dish  them 
on  a  hot  napkin. 


840  SOROSIS    RECEIPTS. 

POTATO    RIBBONS — A    LA    DELMONICO. 

Wash  and  peel  some  large  potatoes  of  good  quality,  cut  them 
into  very  thick  slices,  and  then  each  slice  round  and  round  into 
long  ribbons.  Put  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  let  thern 
lie  an  hour.  Then  drain,  and  fry  them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  but* 
ter,  until  they  are  lightly  browned,  and  quite  crisp.  Dry  them 
with  a  napkin,  pile  them  in  a  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a 
seasoning  of  salt  and  finely  powdered  parsley. 

The  following  five  receipts  are  from  Mrs.  Burleigh,  the  Cor- 
responding Secretary  of  Sorosis,  In  reference  to  the  "  tea,"  John 
Savage  wrote : 

**  Celia  makes  such  soul-inspiring  tea 

That  when  one's  ta'en  the  draught  celestial  up, 
He  feels  so  happy  that  it  oft  struck  me 
She  must  have  poured  her  heart  into  the  cup." 

TEA. 

Take  best  quality  Oolong  or  Japanese  tea,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  for  each  person  ;  put  in  an  earthen  pot  that  has  just 
been  rinsed  with  boiling  water ;  pour  over  it  a  small  quantity  of 
boiling  water,  and  set  it  on  a  moderately  hot  stove  or  range. 
Keep  at  the  boiling-point,  but  not  boiling,  for  ten  minutes,  add  as 
much  boiling  water  as  is  needed,  and  take  to  the  table.  Serve 
in  thin  China  cups,  with  best  lump-sugar  and  cream. 


Take  best  Mocha  coffee,  roast  to  a  rich  brown,  taking  care  to 
have  no  burnt  kernels.  Grind  immediately — not  too  fine  ;  break 
iiito  it  an  egg,  wet  the  mixture  with  cold  water,  cover  closely, . 
and  let  stand  till  morning.  Put  into  a  clean  coffee-pot,  add  as  much 
cold  water  as  is  needed,  and  set  over  a  moderate  fire.  Wheo 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  take  it  off  and  let  it  settle.  To  good  coffee 
white  sugar  and  cream  or  condensed  milk  are  indispensable. 


SOROSIS   KECEIPTS.  341 


MUFFINS. 


One  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  piece  of  butter 
two  thirds  the  size  of  an  egg,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter 
and  half  a  pint  of  yeast.     Let  it  stand  till  light,  and  bake  in 
Ings  about  half  the  usual  width. 

SALAD-DRESSING. 

Four  eggs  boiled  very  hard.  Let  them  get  entirely  cold  ;  re- 
move the  whites  and  rub  the  yolks  to  a  paste.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  powdered  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  French  mustard,  one 
salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Rub  all  together,  slowly  adding  best  olive 
oil  till  the  mixture  is  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Add  two 
table -spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  chopped 
not  too  fine. 

MINCE  PIES. 

Boil  a  large  tongue  until  it  is  perfectly  tender,  remove  the 
outside  and  gristly  parts,  chop  it  fine,  and  add  three  bowls  of 
peeled  and  minced  Spitzenberg  apples.  Add  to  these  one  pound 
of  well-cleaned  Zante  currants,  one  of  raisins  stoned  and  chop- 
ped, one  of  raisins  whole,  one  pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  of  suet  chopped,  a  little  salt,  an  ounce  each  of  mace,  nut- 
meg, cinnamon,  and  cloves,  half  a  pound  of  chipped  candied 
citron,  half  a  pound  of  orange  and  lemon  candied  peel  mixed,  a 
pint  of  golden  or  maple  syrup,  and  one  pint  each  of  Madeira 
and  best  brandy.  Mix  thoroughly.  Tie  it  down  in  ajar,  put  it 
in  a  cool  place,  and  it  will  keep  for  pies  all  winter. 

A.  T.  Stewart's  rice-pudding. 

Mr.  Stewart  is  very  simple  in  his  tastes.  He  generally  eats  a 
cup  of  Indian  meal  gruel  first  thing  in  the  morning ;  and  prefers 
chicken  fricasee  and  plain  rice-pudding  to  any  other  dinner,  the 
year  round. 

For  his  rice-pudding  take  half  a  cup  of  best  rice,  wash  in 
several  waters,  and  put  it  into  a  quart  of  new  milk,  with  sugar 


342  SOROSIS    RECEIPIS. 

to  taste ;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  broken 
up  into  small  bits ;  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  slack  oven 
for  two  hours. 

A.  T.  Stewart's  chicken  fricasee. 

Boil  a  pair  of  young  chickens,  'skin  them,  and  cut  them  up 
fine.  Take  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  boiled,  (there 
should  be  only  a  very  little ;)  mix  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter  with 
the  same  of  flour ;  add  three  spoonfuls  of  veal  gravy  and  three 
of  cream ;  mix  all  well  together,  add  it  to  the  broth,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Season  to  taste,  with  pepper  and  salt ;  then 
throw  in  the  chicken.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  serve 
with  the  accompaniments  of  jelly  and  plain  boiled  rice. 

MRS.  A.  T.  Stewart's  apple-pudding. 

Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
bread-crumbs  from  a  sfale  loaf,  and  tart,  juicy  apples,  peeled, 
cored,  and  cut  in  slices.  Sprinkle  the  apples  thickly  with  sugar, 
to  which  add  a  flavoring  of  nutmeg.  Over  each  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs strew  small  bits  of  sweet  butter.  The  under  layer  in 
the  dish  should  be  bread-crumbs,  the  top  layer  apples. 

Bake  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Just  before  it  is  done, 
whisk  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  with  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Spread  it 
lightly  over  the  top ;  return  to  the  oven  to  set,  but  do  not  allow 
it  to  color.     Serve  warm  or  cold. 

A   NEW    huckleberry    PUDDING. 

A  lady,  being  invited  by  a  wealthy  friend  to  stop  to  lunch, 
was  surprised  to  find  upon  the  table  only  one  dish,  and  that  a 
black  mass,  which  did  not  look  at  all  attractive.  She  was,  how- 
ever, helped  to  a  slice  of  it,  and  it  proved  to  be  the  best  huckle- 
berry pudding  she  ever  ate.     The  receipt  for  it  was  as  follows : 

One  quart  of  flour,  stirred  to  the  consistence  of  cup-cake,  with 
milk  and  water,  or  water  only ;  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  and 


SOROSIS   RECEIPTS.  343 

as  many  huckleberries  as  can  be  crowded  in.  Boil  in  a  bag 
clipped  first  in  boiling  water,  afterward  well  floured  four  hours, 
without  stopping.     Serve  with  a  rich  fruit  or  wine  sauce. 

MME.    DEMORESt's    FAVORITE   INDIAN    HUCKLEBERRY   PUDDING. 

Stii*  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  enough  meal  to  make  a  mo- 
derately stiff  batter.  Add  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
a  small  cup  of  finely-chopped  suet,  a  little  molasses,  and  a  quart 
of  huckleberries.  Boil  two  hours  in  a  bag,  leaving  room  to 
swell.     Serve  with  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 

MR.    DEMORESt's    FAVORITE   FRUIT-LUNCH. 

Poel  a  large  red  banana,  and  slice  it  into  a  quart  of  new  milk. 
Add  a  little  pulled  French  roll  and  a  pint  of  large  red  Antwerp 
raspberries. 

angie's  lemonade. 

Peel  a  juicy  pine-apple,  and  slice  it  into  a  large  bowl  or 
pitcher.  Add  to  it  a  lump  of  clear  ice,  the  juice  of  six  lemons, 
and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Let  this  stand 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  three  pints  of  water  gradually,  stirring 
all  the  time.     Serve  with  a  slice  of  pine-apple  in  each  tumbler. 


GENUINE  RECEIPTS  FROM  THE    ONEIDA 
COMMUNITY. 

(Contributed  by  a  Member.) 


CURRANT    JELLY. 


Put  the  currants  into  a  saucepan  ;  allow  them  to  just  boil. 
Press  out  the  juice,  and  to  six  quarts  add  eight  pounds  of  sugar. 
Boil  until  of  the  right  consistence. 

RASPBERRY    JELLY. 

Follow  the  above  directions  ;  using  five  pounds  of  sugar  to  six 
quarts  of  juice. 

Jellies  of  other  kinds  of  fruit  are  made  in  nearly  the  same 
manner.  We  differ  from  some  in  cooking  the  fruit  before  press- 
ing out  the  juice.  There  seems  to  be  a  certain  richness  retained 
otherwise  lost.  Sugar  must  be  varied  as  the  fruit  is  mild  or 
tart. 

PICKLING. 

One  gallon  vinegar,  ten  pounds  of  sugar  boiled  together,  and 
skimmed  for  a  syrup.  Use  whole  cloves,  mace,  or  spices  to  the 
taste.  One  pound  eight  ounces  of  fruit  (pears,  peaches,  crab- 
apples,  etc.)  to  a  quart  bottle ;  cover  the  fruit  with  the  syrup ; 
heat  eight  or  ten  minutes  after  the  water  in  which  the  bottles  are 
placed  boils  ;  cork  and  seal. 

We  have  a  method  of  corking,  the  bottles  before  cooking  the 
fruit,  which  retains  more  of  the  flavor ;  but  the  process  requires 
machinery  for  pressing  in  the  corks,  letting  out  the  gas  generated, 
etc.,  not  likely  to  be  found  in  a  private  family. 

I  am  sorry  I  can  not  give  the  weight  of  sugar  to  be  used  in 
preserving.  We  have  no  rule  for  the  weight  of  sugar ;  we  use 
instead    a    saccharometer,  for   determining  the   density   of  the 


RECEIPTS   FKOM    THE    ONEIDA    COMMUNITY.  345 

syrup ;   an   instrument  easily  procured,  and  much  more  con- 
venient than  the  process  of  weighing. 

FOR   PRESERVING   PINE-APPLE. 

One  pound  six  ounces  of  pine-apple  to  a  quart  bottle ;  syrup, 
8D'  density.  Cook  eight  minutes  after  the  water  in  which  the 
bottles  are  placed  boils.  Cork  and  seal.  Of  course  boil  and 
skim  the  syrup  before  covering  the  fruit. 

SWEET    CHERRIES. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  cherries  to  a  quart  bottle.  Syrup, 
19°  density.  Tart  cherries  require  stronger  syrup.  Follow  the 
above  directions  for  boiling,  etc. 

RASPBERRIES. 

One  pound  nine  ounces  of  berries  to  a  quart  bottle.  Syrup, 
24°  density. 

PLUMS. 

One  pound  eight  ounces  to  a  quart.  Syrup,  26**  density,  for 
green  and  yellow  gages  ;  28°  for  blue  plums. 

PEACHES. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  to  a  quart.  Syrup,  22°  density.  Pears 
the  same. 

CANNED    TOMATOES. 

Scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes  ;  drain  off  all  the  juice.  Fill  the 
can  till  it  weighs  two  pounds.  Add  one  large  table-spoonful  of 
syrup  made  in  the  following  manner:  To  one  gallon  of  water 
one  and  one  half  pound  of  salt ;  the  same  of  sugar  Seal  the 
cans  ;  boil  thirty  minutes.  Take  them  from  the  water  ;  open  the 
vent  for  the  escape  of  the  gas,  and  seal  again. 


540         RECEIPTS   FROM   THE   ONEIDA   COMMUNITY. 
ANOTHER    RECEIPT    FOR   COOKING   TOMATOES. 

Cook  the  tomatoes  in  an  enameled  kettle  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 
Take  the  bottles  from  hot  water ;  fill  them.  Use  the  same  allow 
ance  of  syrup  to  a  quart ;  cork  and  seal  while  the  bottles  are 
hot 

STRAWBERRY    SHORTCAKE. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  large  cofFee-cupful  of  milk.  "  Ilors- 
ford's  Self-Raising  Bread  Preparation,"  (a  measure  accompanies 
the  powder,)  the  large  measure  for  acid,  the  smaller  one  for  i:oda 
— one  of  each  ;  a  little  salt ;  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  The 
soda  and  acid  should  be  sifted  into  the  flour  and  thoroughly 
mixed.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  ;  add  the  milk  ;  mix  and 
spread  the  dough  three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick  on  tin  plates; 
put  immediately  into  a  quick  oven  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
One  quart  of  berries  to  shortcake,  well  mixed  with  sugar.  Cut 
the  shortcake  open,  butter  the  lower  half,  spread  on  half  the 
berries ;  the  upper  half  in  the  same  manner,  and  place  over  the 
lower. 

Any  other  preparation  besides  Hors ford's  will  do.  We  for- 
merly used  sour  cream  and  soda. 

BREAD. 

Soak  one  cake  of  "  Twin  Brothers  New  Vegetable  Dry  Hop 
Yeast"  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  until  dissolved.  Add 
a  pint  of  water  slightly  warm ;  stir  in  flour  until  very 
thick,  and  allow  it  to  remain  over  night.  Heat  a  quart  of  milk 
to  the  temperature  of  130°  F.  ;  stir  in  a  quart  of  flour  and 
the  yeast ;  mix  thoroughly.  When  done,  sprinkle  on  flour ; 
when  sufficiently  light,  the  flour  will  be  cracked  on  the  top  of  the 
dough.  When  light,  mix  in  flour  enough  to  mould  it  easily; 
eiould  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Let  it  rise,  and  mould  a^gaia 
When  risen  the  third  time,  send  to  the  oven.     Bake  one  hour. 


RICHFIELD  SPRINGS  RECEIPTS. 


Tbe  following  four  receipts  were  obtained  by  the  author  from 
the  Fuller  House,  Richfield  Springs.  We  can  vouch  for  their 
excellence. 

LEMON  PUDDING  MERINGUE. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  four  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  small  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  lemon. 
Put  bread  in  part  of  milk,  add  yolks,  butter,  and  sugar;  beat  to- 
gether with  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  After  it  is  baked,  beat 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  juice  of  lemon.     Cover,  and  brown  lightly. 


Six  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk.  Warm  the  milk  to  melt  the 
butter,  beat  the  eggs  separately,  to  the  yolks  put  the  milk,  then 
add  beaten  whites. 

CREAM   PIE. 

Crust :  One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs, 
one  tea-spoon  of  cream  tartar,  half  of  soda.  Dissolve  soda  in  one 
table-spoonful  of  water ;  put  the  flour  in  a  dish,  add  the  sugar  and 
cream  of  tartar,  mix  all  together ;  then  break  in  the  eggs,  stir, 
and  put  in  the  soda ;  if  not  quite  stiff  enough,  put  in  more 
flour. 

Cream  :  Half  a  pint  of  milk,  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  of 
flour,  one  egg.  Boil  the  milk  ;  beat  together  sugar,  Qgg,  and 
flour ;  stir  in  a  little  cold  milk  to  this,  and  when  the  other  milk 
boils,  add  the  mixture.  When  cake  and  cream  are  both  cold, 
split  the  cake  and  put  cream  between.     Enough  for  two  pies. 


348  RICHFIELD    SPRINGS    RECEIPIS. 

COKN-BUEAD. 

Two  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  handfuls  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  a  little  salt,  meal  to  thicken. 

AUNT    fanny's   buttermilk    BISCUIT. 

Into  one  quart  of  thick  buttermilk,  stir  Graham  flour  to  mako 
a  thick  batter,  add  a  little  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of 
soda  or  saleratus,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Beat  to 
the  consistency  of  drop-cake,  and  drop  a  table- spoonful  for  each 
biscuit  on  a  buttered  pan.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

ENGLISH   YULE   CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  well-cleaned  Zante 
currants,  same  of  raisins,  six  eggs,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied 
citron  and  lemon-peel,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds  chopped, 
or  hickory  nuts,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg,  one 
glass  of  wine,  one  glass  of  brandy.  Bake  in  square  pans,  cross 
with  a  knife  before  baking,  break  into  pieces,  and  keep  in  a  tin 
box. 

STRAWBERRIES  WHOLE A    FINE   RECEIPT. 

Take  an  equal  weight  of  powdered  loaf-sugar  and  fruit. 
Place  the  latter  in  a  deep  dish,  and  lay  half  the  sugar  over  it, 
shaking  gently  so  that  it  will  touch  the  under  side  of  the  fruit, 
which  must  have  been  picked  perfectly  dry.  Cover  the  dish, 
and  put  it  in  the  ice-box,  not  touching  the  ice.  Next  day  make 
a  thin  clear  syrup  of  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  put  in  one  pint 
of  red  currant  juice  to  every  three  pounds  of  berries,  and  in  this 
simmer  them  gently  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  sufficiently 
jellied.     Choose  the  largest  scarlet  berries,  and  not  too  ripe, 

LEICESTERSHIRE    HUNTING  BEEF. 

Take  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  rub  it 
well  over  a  fine  round  of  beef.     Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours, 


KICIIFIELD    SPRINGS    KECEIPTS.  349 

then  rub  in  as  much  common  salt  as  will  salt  it  sufficiently. 
Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  twelve  days,  turning  it  every  day,  then 
put  it  into  a  deep  pan,  and  cover  it  under  and  over  with  three 
pounds  of  beef  suet.  Cover  it  with  a  thick  paste,  and  baKe  it 
slowly  six  hours.  It  will  keep  for  two  months,  and  is  famous  for 
•ts  excellence, 

mother's  biscuits. 

These  biscuits,  which  are  very  nice  and  very  simple,  are  made 
of  fine  white  bread  dough,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  butter 
worked  in  by  hand.  Spread  out  the  dough,  break  the  butter 
small,  knead  it  in  well,  roll  it  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut 
out  the  biscuits,  prick  them,  and  let  them  stand  in  a  warm  place, 
covered  with  a  cloth  for  half  an  hour.  Then  bake  them  a  light 
brown. 

These,  with  stewed  potatoes,  cream-pie,  and  fruit,  used  to  form 
O'lr  summer  Sunday  morning  breakfast,  at  home. 


A  STRONG-MINDED  WOMAN'S  EECEIPTS 


WHIPPED    SYLLABUB. 


Take  good  sweet  cream,  to  each  pint  put  six  ounces  of  double- 
refined  sugar,  half  a  tumbler  of  white  wine,  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat  the  whole  well  together.  Put  jelly  in 
glasses,  and  cover  them  with  the  froth  as  fast  as  it  rises. 

ICE    CURRANTS. 

Take  large  bunches  of  ripe  currants,  wash  and  drain  them  dry, 
then  dip  them  into  the  whites  of  eggs,  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Lay  them  on  a  sieve,  at  such  a  distance  as  not  to  touch 
each  other.  Sift  white  sugar  over  them  thick,  and  set  them  in  a 
warm  j)lace  to  dry. 

LEMON    CREAM. 

Pare  four  fresh  lemons  very  thin,  so  as  to  get  none  of  the 
white  part.  Soak  the  rinds  twelve  hours  in  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  and  half  a  pint  more  of 
cold  water.  Beat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  the 
yolks  of  three.  Strain  the  lemon-juice  and  water,  mix  it  with 
the  eggs,  set  the  whole  in  a  few  ovals,  sweeten  it  with  powdered 
white  sugar,  and  stir  till  it  grows  thick,  then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  till  cold.     Serve  in  glasses. 

SNOW    CREAM. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  stir  in  two 
table-spoons  of  powdered  white  sugar,  a  table-spoon  of  sweet 
wine,  a  tea-spoon  of  rose  water.  Beat  the  whole  well  together. 
Then  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  This  is  a  nice  accompaniment 
to  a  dessert  of  sweetmeats. 


A   STRONG-MINDED    WOMAN  S    RECEIPTS.  351 

SPANISH     FRITTERS. 

Cut  the  soft  part  of  a  baker's  loaf  in  slices  of  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  of  any  form  you  please.  Take  a  pint  of  nnlk  or 
cream,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  toa-spoon  of  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon  mixed,  three  drops  of  the  essence  of  lemon,  sugar  to 
taste,  stir  well  together  and  pour  over  the  slices.  When  they  have 
absorbed  as  much  of  the  milk  as  they  will,  take  them  out  before 
they  get  too  soft,  and  fry  it  a  nice  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

They  may  be  served  with  or  without  sauce. 


CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Pick  and  wash  three  quarts  of  cranberries.  Put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  one  quart  of  water.  Cover  the  pan,  and  when 
they  are  stewed  under,  stir  in  two  quarts  of  sugar,  stir  until  all 
the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  take  the  sauce  from  the  fire,  dish,  and 
serve.  The  above  proportions  are  easily  remembered:  one 
quart  of  water,  two  of  sugar,  and  three  of  cranberries.  And 
they  will  always  make  an  excellent  sauce. 


POTATO  BALLS. 

Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg^  roll  them  into 
balls,  flour  them,  or  roll  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  a  light 
brown  in  good  drippings. 


CORN-BREAD   WITHOUT   MILK. 

For  one  quart  of  sifted  meal,  take  six  eggs  and  two  table-spoons 
of  butter.  Scald  half  the  meal  over  night  with  boiling  water  and 
a  little  salt.  In  the  morning  take  the  remaining  half,  together 
with  the  portion  scalded,  and  the  yolks  of  the  egg  well-ben  ten  and 
stirred  together.  Add  the  whites  after  having  beaten  them  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Butter  small  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This 
makes  a  superior  breakfast  bread. 


352  1   STKONG-MINDED    WOMAN's    RECEIPTS. 

POUND    GINGER-BREAD.      (EXCELLENT.) 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  tea-spoon  of  ginger,  and  half  a  one  of  cloves,  half 
tea- spoon  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour. 


ALMOND   PUDDING.      (VERY  RICH.) 

Blanch  and  pound  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and 
a  few  bitter  ones.  Put  in  rose-water — about  one  table-spoon ; 
a  wine-glass  of  wine,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  six  ounces  of  butter, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  the  peel  of  two  grated,  one  quart  of  cream. 
When  mixed,  bake  half  an  hour,  with  paste  round  the  dish. 

SAGO   PUDDING. 

Eight  spoonfuls  of  sago,  with  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  lemon- 
peel  in  a  quart  of  new  milk  ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  in  six  eggs, 
and  bake  with  paste. 

INDIAN   MEAL   DROPS. 

One  quart  Indian  meal,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water,  one  egg 
well  beaten ;  rub  a  small  piece  of  shortening  in  the  meal  over 
night ;  a  little  salt.     Should  not  stand  after  being  mixed  together. 

GINGER-NUTS. 

Ten  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  melted 
butter  or  pork  gravy,  (it  is  good  half  and  hnlf,)  one  cup  of  sour 
cream,  two  table-spoons  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  half  a  cup  of 
warm  water,  one  table-spoon  of  ginger ;  make  as  soft  as  can  be 
rolled,  and  bake  quick.     This  keeps  well. 

INVALUABLE    SALVE. 

Take  three  carrots,  and  grate  them,  place  in  a  vessel,  and  cover 
with  lard,  without  salt,  if  convenient.  Boil  thoroughly,  strain 
and  add  sufficient  beeswax  to  make  a  paste.  This  is  a  most  in* 
valuable  ointment  for  cuts,  burns,  scalds,  or  wounds  of  any  kind, 


A    STRONG-MINDED    WOMAn's    RECEIPTS.  353 

A  poultice  of  cranberries  is  a  certain  cure  for  erysipelas. 

For  the  bite  of  a  mad  dog,  wash  the  wound  immediately  with 
warm  vinegar  or  tepid  water.  After  washing  it  clean,  pour  in  a 
few  drops  of  muriatic  acid,  because  mineral  acids  destroy  the 
poison  of  the  saliva.      The  evil  effect  is  thus  neutralized. 

CREAM    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  one 
cup  of  flour,  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  of  soda.  Season 
with  lemon. 

SPICED    CURRANTS. 

Five  pounds  ripe  currants,  four  pounds  brown  sugar,  two 
table-spoons  cloves,  two  table-spoons  cinnamon,  one  pint  vinegar. 
Boil  two  hours  or  more,  till  quite  thick. 

MILK    GRUEL. 

Mix  together  half  a  tumblerful  each  of  warm  milk  and  tolera- 
bly thick  gruel.  This  makes  a  nutritious  and  perfectly  safe  be- 
verage for  the  sick,  and,  when  the  debility  is  extreme,  will  sus- 
tain the  powers  of  nature  when  noticing  else  can  with  safety  bo 
given. 

TO    KEEP   WORMS    FROM    DRIED    FRUIT. 

Place  your  fiuit  in  a  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
covered  tightly.  When  thoroughly  heated,  tie  them  immediate- 
ly in  a  clean  linen  or  cotton  bag,  and  hang  them  up.  This  me- 
thod is  preferable  to  heating  in  an  oven,  as  that  is  apt  to  render 
them  hard,  even  if  you  are  so  fortunate  as  not  to  burn  them. 

FRENCH    ROLLS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  piece  of  butter  ih^ 
Rize  of  an  egg  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  tea-cup  of  yeast,  a 
1  Ule  salt. 


354  A   STRONG-MINDED    WOMAn's    RECEIPTS. 


CARROT   PIE. 

Scrape  the  skin  v^fFthe  carrots,  boil  them  soft,  and  strain  them 
through  a  sieve.  To  a  pint  of  the  strained  pulp  put  three  pints 
of  milk,  six  beaten  eggs,  two  table-spoons  melted  butter,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  grated  rind  of  a  whole  one.  Sweeten  to  your  taste, 
and  bake  it  in  deep  pie-plates,  without  upper  crust. 

A    HINT    TO    HOUSEKEEPERS. 

A  few  drops  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  in  a  small  quantity  of 
warm  rain-water,  will  prove  a  safe  and  easy  anti-acid,  and  will 
change,  if  carefully  applied,  discolored  spots  upon  carpets,  and 
indeed,  all  spots,  whether  produced  by  acids  or  alkalies.  If  one 
has  the  misfortune  to  have  a  carpet  injured  by  whitewash,  this 
will  immediately  restore  it. 

PAINTED    PAILS. 

All  persons  should  avoid  using  painted  pails.  A  coat  of  var- 
nish on  the  outside  is  all  the  embellishment  we  should  desire  to 
see  on  a  water-pail.     Evils  involving  life  may  be  the  result 

CREAM-CAKES. A    CONFECTIONER'S    RECEIPT. 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter ;  bake  in  hearts  and  rounds.  This  is  the  out- 
side. For  the  filling  take  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two  eggs ;  boil 
like  soft  custard,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  A  little  nice  flour- 
paste  stirred  gradually  into  the  cream  while  boiling  greatly  im- 
proves it.  Cut  open  the  batter  when  baked  and  fill  with  the 
custard. 

SUGAR   GINGERBREAD. 

One  quart  molasses,  one  half  pound  sugar,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  butter  and  lard  mixed,  five  eggs,  sugar  and  butter 
creamed ;  then  add  the  eggs,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  ginger,  if 
strong,  one  tea-spoon  saleratus  dissolved  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  milk  , 
as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  the  stiffness  of  pound-cake  dough. 


A   STKOXG-MINDED    WOMAn's    RECEIPTS.  355 

Bake  it  in  a  slow  oven.     A  very  excellent  receipt,  and  keeps 
well. 

TROY    PUDDING. 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  suet,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  molasses, 
three  and  a  half  cups  flour,  one  tea-spoon  soda.  Boil  three  hours, 
and  eat  with  hot  wine  sauce. 

FRANCATELLl's   RECEIPT    FOR    RAISED    LEICESTERSHIRE    PORK-PIE. 

Cut  the  pork  up  in  square  pieces,  fat  and  lean,  about  the  size 
of  a  cob-nut,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  small  quantity 
of  sage  and  thyme  chopped  fine,  and  set  it  aside  on  a  dish  in  a 
cool  place.  Next,  make  some  hot-water  paste,  using  for  this 
purpose  (if  desired)  fresh-made  hog's  lard  instead  of  butter,  in 
the  proportion  of  eight  ounces  to  the  pound  of  flour.  These  pies 
must  be  raised  by  hand,  in  the  following  manner :  First,  mould 
the  paste  into  a  round  ball  upon  the  slab,  then  roll  it  out  to  the 
thickness  of  half  an  inch,  and  with  the  back  of  the  right  hand  in- 
dent the  centre  in  a  circle  reaching  to  within  three  inches  of  the 
edge  of  the  paste ;  next,  gather  up  the  edges  all  round,  pressing 
it  closely  with  the  fingers  and  thumbs,  so  as  to  give  to  it  the 
form  of  a  purse;  then  continue  to  work  it  upward,  until  the 
sides  are  raised  suflBciently  high ;  the  pie  should  now  be  placed 
on  a  baking-sheet,  with  a  round  of  buttered  paper  under  it,  and 
after  it  has  been  filled  with  the  pork,  previously  prepared  for 
the  purpose,  covered  in  with  some  of  the  paste  in  the  usual  man- 
ner. Trim  the  edges,  and  pinch  it  round  with  the  pincers,  deco- 
rate it,  egg  it  over,  and  bake  it  until  done ;  calculating  the  time 
it  should  remain  in  the  oven,  according  to  the  quantity  of  meat 
it  contains. 

VELVET    CREAM. 

To  a  pint  of  cream  put  a  very  little  sugar;  keep  stirring  it  over 
the  fire  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then  take  it  ofi*;  but  keep 
on  stirring  it  till  it  is  about  the  warmth  of  new  milk,  after  which 
pour  it  through  a  fine  colander  into  a  dish  containing  three 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  or  orange-juice,  a  little  grated  peel,  and  a  little 


356  A    STRONG-MINDED    WOMAN'S   RECEIPTS. 

marmalade,  chopped  small,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  white  wine. 
This  should  be  prepared  about  twenty-four  hours  before  it  ia 
wanted  for  use. 

GERMAN    SOUP. 

Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  any  veal  bones,  and  some  good 
itock ;  then  add  one  or  two  turnips,  one  carrot,  and  some  onion.s, 
a  little  lemon  and  thyme,  and  a  small  stick  of  celery.  Let  all 
boil  well,  strain  it  for  use,  then  thicken,  and  add  the  yolks  of  five 
or  six  eggs  to  about  three  quarts  of  soup,  and  one  gill  of  cream ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  An  excellent  soup. — From  a  German 
lady. 

WINE    FROM    ORANGES. 

To  ten  gallons  of  water  put  twenty-eight  pounds  of  loaf-sugar 
and  the  whites  of  six  eggs ;  boil  them  together  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  keeping  the  liquor  well  skimmed  all  the  time,  and 
pour  it  hot  into  a  tub  or  large  pan,  over  the  peels  of  fifty  Seville 
oranges.  W  hen  nearly  cool,  spread  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  yeast 
over  a  slice  of  toasted  bread,  and  put  it  into  the  liquor  to  make 
it  ferment ;  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  days ;  then  pour  from  the 
peels  into  a  cask,  with  a  gallon  of  orange-juice — (the  fruit  should 
be  large,  rough-rinded,  and  sour) — this  takes  about  one  hundred 
and  twenty  Seville  oranges;  let  it  remain  in  the  cask  until  fer- 
mentation ceases;  this  done,  draw  off  as  much  as  will  admit  one 
quart  of  brandy  to  every  five  gallons  of  wine.  When  kept  about 
four  or  five  years,  it  is  found  to  surpass  some  of  the  best  foreign 
wines  sold  in  this  country. 

PALM   WINE. 

Of  this  wine  Pliny  the  historian  has  said  thus  much :  "It  is 
made  by  taking  one  bushel  of  dates  of  the  palm-tree,  and  throw- 
ing them  into  three  gallons  of  water;  then  squeezing  out  the 
juice,  it  will  intoxicate  like  wine.''  When  drunk  new,  it  has  the 
taste  of  the  cocoa,  and  sweet  as  honey ;  when  kept  for  a  while,  it 
grows  strong,  and  intoxicates  if  drunk  freely.  After  long  expo- 
sure to  the  air,  it  becomes  vinegar.     Though  this  recipe  is  not  a 


A   STRONG-MINDED    WOMAN's    RECEIPTS.  oOY 

fery  convenient  one,  some  may  be  induced  to  try  it,  and  are  no* 
likely  to  be  disappointed. 

MOCK   TURKEY. 

(Author^s  Eeceiiot.) 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton  that  has  been  kept  for  several  days,  but 
IS  perfectly  sweet  and  good ;  take  out  the  bone,  (or  get  your 
butcher  to  do  it  for  you,)  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  dressing  as 
for  turkey.  Put  it  in  a  deep  pan  half  filled  with  water,  cover 
down  close  with  another,  and  cook  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
three  hours  at  least,  basting  frequently.  Then  remove  the  cover, 
pour  off  the  liquor,  let  it  stand  to  cool,  skim  the  fat  off,  and  put ' 
it  back  again.  Let  the  meat  brown,  basting  often,  and  add  to 
the  gravy  a  table- spoonful  of  tomato  catsuo.  before  serving. 


PEACH  PIE. 

{Author's  Receipt.) 

Select  medium-sized,  high-flavored  peaches,  peel  them,  and  lay 
the  peaches  whole  in  an  earthen  dish,  the  kind  for  making  oyster 
pie.  Lay  the  peaches  close,  and  cover  them  thickly  with  white 
or  light-brown  sugar.  Finish  with  a  rim  and  upper  crust  of 
puff,  or  good  flaky  paste.  Bake  in  a  modtrate  oven.  This  is  the 
only  way  to  make  peach  pie. 

CLARET  PUNCH. 

{Author's  Receipt,) 

Cut  up  in  a  bowl  half  a  dozen  fine  fresh  lemons,  in  thin  slices; 
add  to  them  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  set  away  for  two  hours, 
covering  down  close.  When  required  for  use,  put  in  a  large  lump 
of  clear  Ice,  a  bottle  of  good  claret,  a  half  bottle  of  sherry,  and 
three  pints  of  water.     Mix  thoroughly. 


358        MRS.    PARTINGTON  S    THANKSGIVING   TURKEY, 
MEATS    AND    THEIR   ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

With  roast-beef,  grated  horse-radish. 

Roast  pork,  apple  sauce. 

Roast  veal,  tomato  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Roast  mutton,  currant  jelly. 

Boiled  mutton,  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  chicken,  bread  sauce. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce. 

Boiled  turkey,  oyster  sauce. 

Venison  or  wild  ducks,  black  currant  jelly. 

Broiled  fresh  mackerel,  sauce  of  stewed  gooseberries. 

Boiled  bluefish,  white  "  cream"  sauce. 

Broiled  shad,  boiled  rice  and  salad. 

Compote  of  pigeons,  mushroom  sauce. 

Fresh  salmon,  green  peas,  "  cream"  sauce. 

Roast  goose,  apple  sauce. 

MRS.  Partington's  thanksgiving  turkey. 

My  Dear  Mrs.  Croly  :  I  sent  you,  a  day  or  two  since,  a 
brief  notice  of  your  book ;  that  deserves  much  more,  for  I  regard 
it,  as  far  it  suits  our  latitude,  the  best  cook-book  ever  published 
— all  the  mesdames  masculine  paling  before  it.  But  wife  and  I 
sitting  here  alone  the  night  before  Thanksgiving,  the  book  the 
theme,  she  has  indulged  some  queries  regarding  some  of  your  dishes. 
She  is  a  capital  plain  cook,  and  has  much  genius  in  tickling  the 
palate  in  a  fancy  way ;  and  queried  some  things,  excellent  in 
New-York,  doubtless,  but  Dot  reconcilable  with  New-Hampshire 
and  Massachusetts  notions.  For  instance,  the  "  stuffing"  of  a 
turkey,  a  work  she  has  just  accomplished,  and  which  we  regard 
marvelous — her  mode  is  so  different,  I  have  asked  her  receipt 
for  you,  that  you  may  introduce  it  in  your  next  edition  as  the 
Partingtonian  method.  The  "stuffing"  is  made  of  pounded 
bread-crumbs  or  cracker,  sweet-marjoram,  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter, mixed  as  hard  as  the  dough  of  hard  gingerbread.     This  is  for 


MRS,    PARTlNGTOi^  S   THANKSGIVING   TURKEY.        859 

the  cavity  of  the  crop  alone,  which  may  be  extended  by  breaking 
off  the  neck,  and  filling  the  skin  thereof.  This  stuffing,  with  a 
rich  gravy,  is  delicious.  The  body  of  the  turkey  is  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  the  amount  according  to  the  size  of  the  turkey — 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  each  for  a  small  one.  The  basting  must  be 
as  described  by  you,  minus  the  sausages.  Now  this,  my  dear 
Mrs.  C,  is  a  toothsome  thing,  as  I  could  convince  you,  were  you 
here  to-morrow.  Mrs.  S.  does  not  criticise — only  wonders.  She 
likes  the  book  very  much,  and  thinks  it  very  valuable  for  new 
housekeepers — your  specific  and  intelligent  directions  being,  she 
regards  admirable,  as  I  certainly  do.  I  have  never  seen  so  much 
wholesome  counsel  given  in  a  book  of  the  kind — indeed,  none 
that  is  possible  to  be  made  practicable.  I  think  I  shall  be  doing 
my  daughter  the  best  possible  service  by  giving  her  the  copy  that 
came  to  us  from  the  publishers  as  a  Christmas  present.  I  thank 
you  for  the  copy  you  sent  me.  That  Mrs.  S.  will  not  part  with 
Yours  ever  truly, 

B.  P.  Shillabeh, 

p.S. — Friday  30^A.     The  turkey  was  a  success. 


CAEVING. 


FISH  CARVING. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 

In  carving  fish,  cure  should  be  taken  to  help  it  in  perfect  flakes, 
as,  if  these  are  broken,  the  beauty  of  the  fish  is  lost.  The  carver 
should  be  acquainted,  too,  with  tlie  choicest  parts  and  morsels; 
and  to  give  each  guest  an  equal  share  of  those  titbits  should  be 
his  maxim.  Steel  knives  and  forks  should  on  no  account  be 
used  in  helping  fish,  as  these  are  liable  to  impart  to  it  a  very  dis- 
agreeable flavor  Where  silver  fish-carvers  are  considered  too 
dear  to  be  bought,  good  electro-plated  ones  answer  very  well, 
and  are  inexpensive.  Fish  knives  and  forks  are  now  usually 
placed  by  each  convive;  they  are  of  the  same  shape  as  the  fish- 
carvers. 

cod's  HEAD  AND   SHOULDERS. 

First  run  the  knife  along 
tlie  center  of  the  side  of 
the  fish,  namely,  from  d  to 
b,  down  to  the  bone;  then 
carve  it  in  unbroken  slices 
downward  from  d  to  e,  or 
upward  from  d  to  c,  as 
shown   in  the   engraving. 

The  carver  should  ask  the  guests  if  they  would  like  a  portion 

of  the  roe  and  liver. 

Note. — Of  this  fish,  the  parts  about  the  backbone  and  shoul- 
ders are  the  firmest,  and  most  esteemed  by  connoisseurs.^  The 
sound,  which  lines  the  fish  beneath  the  backbone,  is  considered 
a  delicacy,  as  are  also  the  gelatinous  parts  about  the  head  and 
neck. 


CARVING. 


3GI 


SALMON. 

First  run  the  knife  quite 
down  to  the  bone,  along  the 
side  of  the  fish,  from  a  to  h,  and 
also  from  c  to  d.  Then  help  the 
thick  part  lengthwise — that  is,  ^f 
in  the  direction  of  the  lines 

from  a  to  h;  and  the  thin  part  

breadthwise — that  is,  in  the  ^ 

direction  of  the  lines  from  e  to/,  as  shown  in  the  engraving.  A 
slice  of  the  thick  part  should  always  be  accompanied  by  a  smaller 
piece  of  the  thin  from  the  belly,  where  lies  the  fat  of  the  fish. 

Note, — Many  persons,  in  carving  salmon,  make  the  mistake  of 
slicing  the  thick  part  of  this  fish  in  the  opposite  direction  to 
that  we  have  stated  ;  and  thus,  by  the  breaking  of  the  flakes,  the 
beauty  of  its  appearance  is  destroyed. 

SOLE. 

Halibut  is  prepared  so  as  to  look  a  little  like  English  filet  of 
sole. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Other  fish,  when  of  a  sufficiently  large  size,  may  be  carved 
in  the  same  manner  as  salmon.  When  small,  they  may  be  cut 
through,  bone  and  all,  and  helped  in  nice  pieces,  a  middle-sized 
whiting  serving  for  two  slices. 

Note. — The  thick  part  of  the  eel  is  reckoned  the  best;  and  this 
holds  good  of  all  flat  fish. 

The  tail  of  the  lobster  is  the  prime  part,  and  next  to  that  the 
claws. 


BEEF  CAEYING. 

AITCHBONE   OF    BEEF. 

A  boiled  aitchbone  of  beef  is  not  a  difficult  joint  to  carve,  as 
will  be  seen  on  reference  to  the  ac- 
companying engraving.  By  follow- 
ing with  the  knife  the  direction  of 
the  line  from  1  to  2,  nice  slices  will 
be  easily  cut.  It  may  be  necessary, 
as  in  a  round  of  beef,  to  cut  a  thick 
slice  off  the  outside  before  commencing  to  serve. 


362 


CARVING. 


BRISKET   OF  BEEF. 

There  is  but  little  description  necessary  to  add,  to  show  the 
carving  of  a  boiled  brisket  of  beef, 
beyond  the  engraving  here  inserted. 
The  only  point  to  be  observed  is 
that  the  joint  should  be  cut  evenly 
and  firmly  quite  across  the  bones, 

so  that  on  its  reappearance  at  the  table  it  should  not  have_a 

jagged  and  untidy  look. 

RIBS  OF  BEEF. 

This  dish  resembles  the  sirloin,  except  that  it  has  no  fillet  or 
undercut.  As  explained  in  the  recipes,  the  end  piece  is  often 
cut  off,  salted  and  boiled.  The  mode  of  carving  is  similar  to  that  of 
the  sirloin,  viz. :  in  the  direction  of  the  dotted  line  from  1  to  2. 
This  joint  will  be  the  more  easily  cut  if 
the  plan  be  pursued  which  is  suggested  in 
carving  the  sirloin,  namely:  the  inserting 
of  the  knife  immediately  between  the 
bone  and  the  meat  before  commencing  to 
cut  it  into  slices.  All  joints  of  roast  beef  should  be  cut  in  even 
and  thin  slices.  Horse-radish,  finely  scraped,  may  be  served  as 
a  garnish;  but  horse-radish  sauce  is  preferable  for  eating  with 
the  beef. 

SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

This  dish  is  served  differently  at  various  tables,  some  prefer- 
ing  it  to  come  to  table  with  the  fillet,  or,  as  it  is  usually  called, 
the  undercut  uppermost.  The  reverse  way,  as  shown  in  the  cut, 
is  that  most  usually  adopted.  Still  the  undercut  is  best  eaten 
when  hot;  consequently,  the  carver 
himself  may  raise  the  joint,  and  cut 
some  slices  from  the  under  side,  in 
the  direction  of  from  1  to  2,  as  the 
fillet  is  very  much  preferred  by  some 
eaters.  The  upper  part  of  the  sirloin 
should  be  cut  in  the  direction  of  the 
line  from  5  to  6,  and  care  should  be  taken  to  carve  it  evenly  and 
in  thin  slices.     It  will  be  found  a  great  assistance,  in  carving 


CARVING. 


363 


this  joint  well,  if  the  knife  be  first  inserted  just  above  the  bone 
at  the  bottom,  and  run  sharply  along  between  the  bone  and 
meat,  and  also  to  divide  the  meat  from  the  bone  in  the  same  way 
at  the  side  of  the  joint.  The  slices  will  then  come  away  more 
readily.  Some  carvers  cut  the  upper  side  of  the  sirloin  across, 
as  shown  by  the  line  from  3  to  4;  but  this  is  a  wasteful  plan,  and 
one  not  to  be  recommended.  With  the  sirloin,  very  finely 
scraped  horse-radish  is  usually  served,  and  a  little  given,  when 
liked,  to  each  guest.  Horse-radish  sauce  is  preferable,  however, 
for  serving  on  the  plate,  although  the  scraped  horse-radish  may 
still  be  used  as  a  garnish. 

A  ROUND   OF   BEEF. 

A  round  of  beef  is  not  so  easily  carved  as  many  other  joints 
of  beef,  and  to  manage  it  properly,  a 
thin-bladed  and  very  sharp  knife  is 
necessary.  Off  the  outside  of  the 
joint,  at  its  top,  a  thick  slice  should 
first  be  cut,  so  as  to  leave  the  surface 
smooth;  then  thin  and  even  slices 
should  be  cleverly  carved  in  the  direction  of  the  line  1  to  2-  and 
with  each  slice  of  the  lean  a  delicate  morsel  of  the  fat  should 
be  served. 

BEEF   TONGUE. 

Passing  the  knife  down  in  the  direction  of  from  1  to  2,  a  not 
too  thin  slice  should  be  helped ;  and 
the  carving  of  a  tongue  may  be  con- 
tinued in  this  way  until  the  best  por- 
tions of  the  upper  side  are  served.  The 
fat  which  lies  about  the  root  of  the 
tongue  can  be  served  by  turning  the  tongue,  and  cutting  in  the 
direction  of  from  3  to  4. 


364 


CARVING, 


LEG  OP    MUTTON. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  CARVING. 

HAUNCH   OF   MUTTON. 

A  deep  cut  should,  in  the  first  place,  be  made  quite  down  to 
the  hone,  across  the  knuckle-end  of 
the  joint,  along  the  line  1  to  2.  This 
will  let  the  gravy  escape;  and  then 
it  should  he  carved,  in  not  too  thick 
HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON.  sllccs,  aloug  tlic  wholc  Icugth  of  the 

haunch,  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  4  to  3. 

LEG   OF  MUTTON. 

This  homely,  but  capital  English  joint,  is  almost  invariably 
served  at  table  as  shown  in  the  engraving.  The  carving  of  it  is 
not  very  difficult :  the  knife  should  be  car- 
ried sharply  down  in  the  direction  of  the  line 
from  1  to  2,  and  slices  taken  from  either  side, 
as  the  guests  may  desire,  some  liking  the 
knuckle-end,  as  well  done,  and  others  pre- 
ferring the  more  underdone  part.  The  fat  should  be  sought 
near  the  line  3  to  4.  Some  connoisseurs  are  fond  of  having  this 
joint  dished  with  the  under  side  uppermost,  so  as  to  get  at  the 
finely-grained  meat  lying  under  that  part  of  the  meat  known 
as  the  Pope's  eye ;  but  this  is  an  extravagant  fashion,  and  one 
that  will  hardly  find  favor  in  the  eyes  of  many  economical 
housewives  and  housekeepers. 

LOIN  OF  MUTTON. 

There  is  one  point  in  connection  with  carving  a  loin  of  mut- 
ton which  includes  every  other;  that  is,  that  the  joint  should  be 
thoroughly  well  jointed  by  the  butcher  be- 
fore it  is  cooked.  This  knack  of  jointing 
requires  practice  and  the  proper  tools;  and 
no  one  but  the  butcher  is  supposed  to  have 
LOIN  OP  MUTTON.  tlicsc.  If  thc  boucs  be  not  well  jointed, 
the  carving  of  a  loin  of  mutton  is  not  a  gracious  business ;  where- 
as, if  that  has  been  attended  to,  it  is  an  easy  and  untroublesome 
task^  The  knife  should  be  inserted  at  figure  1,  and  after  feeling 
your  way  between  the  bones,  it  should  be  carried  sharply  in  the 
direction  of  the  line  1  to  2.    As  there  are  some  people  who  pre- 


CARVING.  365 

f  er  the  outside  cut,  while  others  do  not  like  it,  the  question  as  to 
their  choice  of  this  should  be  asked. 

SADDLE    OF    MUTTON. 

Although   we  have  heard,    at  various  intervals,   complaints 
made  at  the   inevitable  '' saddle  of  mutton  "at  the  dinner-par- 
ties of  our  middle  classes,  yet  we  doubt 
whether  any  other  joint  is  belter  liked,  f^^ 

when  it  has  been  well   hung  and  artistic-  hk^ "  v  •  --^ 

ally  cooked.     There  is  a  diversity  of  opin-  ^kV  ,.,^  \    M^ 

ion  respecting  the  mode  of  sending  this  ^rf^n  '"""  '^ 

joint  to  table;  but  it  has  only  reference  saddle  of  mutton, 
to  whether  or  no  there  shall  be  any  portion  of  the  tail,  or,  if  so, 
how  many  joints  of  the  tail.  We  ourselves  prefer  the  mode  as 
shown  in  the  illustration  here  given;  but  others  may,  upon 
equally  good  grounds,  like  the  way  shown  in  the  engraving  on 
this  page.  Some  trim  the  tail  with  a  paper  frill.  The  carving 
is  not  difficult:  it  is  usually  cut  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from 
2  to  1,  quite  down  to  the  bones,  in  evenly-sliced  pieces.  A  fash- 
ion, however,  patronized  by  some,  is  to  carve  it  obliquely,  in  the 
direction  of  the  line  from  4  to  3;  in  that  case  the  joint  would  be 
turned  round  the  other  way,  having  the  thin  end  on  the  right  of 
the  carver. 

SHOULDER    OF    MUTTON. 

This  is  a  joint  not  difficult  to  carve.  The  knife  should  be 
drawn  from  the  outer  edge  of  the  shoulder  in  the  direction  of 
the  line  from  1  to  2,  until  the  bone  of  the  shoulder  is  reached. 
As  many  slices  as  can  be  carved  in  this  man- 
ner should  be  taken,  and  afterward  the  meat  ^j^r 
lyina:  on  either  side  of  the  blade-bone  should  ^^J     \ 

'^        ^  W        2  ^ — /* 

be  served,  by  carvins^  in  the  direction  of  3  to      ^',  M 

4  and  3  to  4.     The  uppermost  side  of  the 
shoulder  being  now  finished,  the  joint  should  bhoulder  op  mutton. 
be  turned,  and  slices  taken  off  along  its  whole  length.    There 
are  some  who  prefer  this  under-side  of  the  shoulder  for  its  juicy 
flesh,  although  the  grain  of  the  meat  is  not  so  fine  as  that  on  the 
other  side. 


366  CARVING. 

FORE-QUARTEll   OF    LAMB. 

We  always  think  that  a  good  and  practiced  carver  delights  in 
the  manipulation  of  this  joint,  for  there  is  a  little  field  for  his 
judgment  and  dexterity  which  does  not  always  occur.  The  sep- 
aration of  the  shoulder  from  the 
breast  is  the  first  point  to  be  at 
tended  to;  this  is  done  by  pass- 
ing the  knife  lightly  round  the 
dotted  line,  as  shown  by  the  fig- 
ures 1,  2,  3,  4,  and  5,  so  as  to  cut 
FORE-QUARTER  OF  LAMB.  tlirougli  tlic  sklu,  aud  tlicu,  by  rais- 
ing with  a  little  force  the  shoulder,  into  which  the  fork  should 
be  firmly  fixed,  it  will  come  away  with  just  a  little  more  exercise 
of  the  knife.  In  dividing  the  shoulder  and  breast,  the  carver 
should  take  care  not  to  cut  away  too  much  of  the  meat  from  the 
latter,  as  that  would  rather  spoil  its  appearance  when  the  shoul- 
der is  removed.  The  breast  and  shoulder  being  separated,  it  is 
usual  to  lay  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little  cayenne, 
lemon  juice,  and  salt  between  them;  and  when  this  is  melted 
and  incorporated  with  the  meat  and  gravy,  the  shoulder 
may,  as  more  convenient,  be  removed  into  another  dish. 
The  next  operation  is  to  separate  the  ribs  from  the  brisket 
by  cutting  through  the  meat  on  the  line  5  to  6.  The  joint  is  then 
ready  to  be  served  to  the  guests;  the  ribs  being  carved  in  the 
direction  of  the  lines  from  9  to  10,  and  the  brisket  from  7  to  8. 
The  carver  should  ask  those  at  the  table  what  parts  they  prefer — 
ribs,  brisket,  or  a  piece  of  the  shoulder. 

LEG  OF  LAMB,  LOIN  OF  LAMB,  SADDLE  OF  LAMB,  SHOULDER  OF 
LAMB, 

Are  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  the  corresponding  joints  of 
mutton. 


CARVING. 


367 


PORK  CxVRviisra 


SUCKING-PIG. 

A  sucking-pig  seems,  at  first  sight,  rather  an  elaborate  dish, 
or  ratlier  animal,  to  carve;  but  by  carefully  mastering  the  de- 
tails of  the  business  every  difficulty  will  vanish;  and  if  a  partial 
failure  be  at  first  made,  yet  all  em- 
barrassment will  quickly  disap- 
pear on  a  second  trial.  A  sucking- 
pig  is  usually  sent  to  table  in  the 
manner  sliown  in  the  engraving. 
The  first  point  to  be  attended  to  is 
to  separate  the  shoulder  from  the  carcase,  by  caiTying  the  knife 
quickly  and  neatly  round  the  circular  line,  as  shown  by  the  fig- 
ures 1,  2,  3;  the  shoulder  will  then  easily  come  away.  The  next 
step  is  to  take  off  the  leg;  and  this  is  done  in  the  same  way,  by 
cutting  round  this  joint  in  the  direction  shown  by  the  figures 
1,  2,  3,  in  the  same  way  as  the  shoulder.  The  ribs  then  stand 
fairly  open  to  the  knife,  which  should  be  carried  down  in  the 
direction  of  the  line  4  to  5;  and  two  or  three  helpings  will  dis- 
pose of  these.  The  other  half  of  the  pig  is  served,  of  course, 
in  the  same  manner.  Different  parts  of  tlie  pig  are  variously 
esteemed;  some  prefering  the  flesh  of  the  neck;  others,  the  ribs; 
and  others  again,  the  shoulders.  The  truth  is,  the  whole  of  a 
sucking-pig  is  delicious,  delicate  eating;  but,  in  carving  it,  the 
host  should  consult  the  various  tastes  and  fancies  of  his  guests, 
keeping  the  larger  joints  generally  for  the  gentlemen  of  the  party. 


HAM. 

In  cutting  a  ham,  the  carver  must  be  guided  according  accord- 
ing as  he  desires  to  practice  economy,  or  have,  at  once,  fine  slices 
out  of  the  prime  part.  Under  the  first 
supposition,  he  will  commence  at  the 
knuckle-end,  and  cut  off  thin  slices  to- 
ward the  thick  part  of  the  ham.  To 
reach  the  choicer  portion,  the  knife, 
which  niust  be  very  sharp  and  thin,  ham. 

should  be  carried  down  to  the  bone,  in  the  direction  of  the  line  1 
to  2.     The  slices  should  be  thin  and  even,  and  always  cut  down 


368 


CARVING. 


to  the  bone.  There  are  some  who  like  to  carve  a  ham  by  cutting 
a  hole  at  the  top,  and  then  slicing  pieces  off  inside  the  hole,  grad- 
ually enlarging  the  circle;  but  we  think  this  a  plan  not  to  be 
recommended.  A  ham,  when  hot,  is  usually  sent  to  table  with 
a  paper  ruffle,  round  the  knuckle. 

LEG   OF   PORK. 

This  joint,  which  is  such  a  favorite  one  with  many  people, 
is  easy  to  carve.  The  knife  should  be  carried  sharply  down  to 
the  bone,  clean  through  the  crackling,  in 
the  direction  of  the  line  1  to  2.  Sage  and 
onion  and  apple  sauce  are  usually  sent  to 
table  with  this  dish,  sometimes  a  leg  of 
pork  is  stuffed,  and  the  guests  should  be 
LKG  OF  poKK.  aslvcd  If  tlicy  will  have  either  or  both.    A 

frequent  plan,  and  we  think  a  good  one,  is  now  pursued,  of  send- 
ing sage  and  onion  to  table  separately  from  the  joint,  as  it  ia 
not  everybody  to  whom  the  flavor  of  this  stuffing  is  agreeable. 

Note, — The  other  dishes  of  pork  do  not  call  for  any  special  re* 
marks  as  to  their  carving  or  helping. 


YEAL  CARVING. 


BREAST     OF     VEAL. 

The  carving  of  a  breast  of  veal  is  not  dissimilar  to  that  of  a 
fore-quarter  of  lamb,  when  the  shoulder  has  been  taken  off. 
The  breast  of  veal  consists  of  two  parts — the  rib-bones  and  the 

gristley  brisket.  These  two  parta 
should  first  be  separated  by  sharply 
passing  the  knife  in  the  direction 
of  the  lines  1,  2;  when  they  are 
BRKAST  OF  VEAL.  cutircly     dlvldcd,    the    rib-bonea 

should  be  carved  in  the  direction  of  the  lines  5  to  6;  and  the 
brisket  can  be  helped  by  cutting  pieces  in  the  direction  3  to  4. 
The  carver  should  ask  the  guests  whether  they  have  a  preference 
for  the  brisket  or  ribs,  and  if  there  be  a  sweetbread  served  with 
the  dish,  as  it  often  is  with  roast  breast  of  veal,  each  person  should 
receive  a  piece. 


CARVING. 


369 


O  A  LP's   HEAD. 


CALF  S  HEAD. 

This  is  not  altogether  the  most  easy  looking  dish  to  cut  when 
it  is  put  before  a  carver  for  the  first  time ;  there  is  not  much  real 
difficulty  in  the  operation,  however,  when 
the  head  has  been  attentively  examined, 
and,  after  the  manner  of  a  phrenologist, 
you  get  to  know  its  bumps,  good  and  bad. 
In  the  first  place,  inserting  the  knife  quite 
down  to  the  bone,  cut  slices  in  the  direction  of  the  line  1  to  2; 
with  each  of  these  should  be  helped  a  piece  of  what  is  called 
the  throat  sweetbread,  cut  in  the  direction  of  from  3  to  4  The 
eye,  and  the  flesh  round  are  favorite  morsels  with  many,  and 
should  be  given  to  those  at  the  table  who  are  known  to  be  the 
greatest  connoisseurs.  The  jawbone  being  removed,  there  will 
then  be  found  some  nice  lean;  and  the  palate,  which  is  reckoned 
by  some  a  tit-bit,  lies  under  the  head.  On  a  separate  dish  tliere 
is  always  served  the  tongue  and  brains,  and  each  guest  should 
be  asked  to  take  some  of  these. 


FILLET   OF    VEAL. 

The  carving  of  this  joint  is  similar  to  that  of  a  round  of  beef. 
Slices,  not  too  thick,  in  the  direction  of  the 
line  1  to  2  are  cut,  and  the  only  point  to  be 
careful  about  is,  that  the  veal  be  evenly 
carved.  Between  the  flap  and  the  meat  the 
stuffing  is  inserted,  and  a  small  portion  of 
this  should  be  served  to  every  guest.  The  person  whom  the 
host  wishes  most  to  honor  should  be  asked  if  they  like  the  deli- 
cious brown  outside  slice,  as  this,  by  many,  is  exceedingly  rel- 
ished. 

KNUCKLE   OF  YEAL. 


FILLET   OP  VEAL. 


The  engraving,  showing  the  dotted  line 
from  1  to  2,  sufficiently  indicates  the  direc- 
tion which  should  be  given  to  the  knife  in 
carving  this  dish.  The  best  slices  are  those 
from  the  thickest  part  of  the  knuckle,  that 
is,  outside  the  line  1  to  2, 


KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL. 


370 


CARVING. 


LOIN   OF   VEAL. 

As  is  the  case  with  a  loin  of  mutton,  the  careful  jointing  of  a 
loin  of  veal  is  more  than  half  the  battle  in  carving  it.  If  the 
butcher  be  negligent  in  this  manner,  he 
should  be  admonished ;  for  there  is  nothmg 
more  annoying  or  irritating  to  an  inexperi- 
j^  enced  carver  than  to  be  obliged  to  turn  his 
knife  in  all  directions  to  find  the  exact  place 
LOIN  OF  VEAL.  wlicrc  It  should  be  inserted  in  order  divide 
the  bones.  When  the  jointing  is  properly  performed,  there  is 
little  difficulty  in  carrying  the  knife  down  in  the  direction  of  the 
line  1  to  3.  To  each  guest  should  be  given  a  piece  of  the  kid- 
ney and  kidney-fat,  which  lie  underneath,  and  are  considered 
great  delicacies. 


BOAST   DUCK. 


POULTRY  CARVma 

ROAST  DUCK. 

No  dishes  require  so  much  knowledge  and  skill  in  their  carv- 
ing as  do  game  and  poultry,  for  it  is  necessary  to  be  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  anatomy  of  the  bird 
and  animal  in  order  to  place  the  knife  at 
exactly  the  proper  point.  A  tough  fowl 
and  an  old  goose  are  sad  triers  of  a  carver's 
powers  and  temper,  and,  indeed,  some- 
times of  the  good  humor  of  those  in  the  neighborhood  of  the 
carver;  for  a  sudden  tilt  of  the  dish  may  eventuate  in  the  placing 
a  quantity  of  the  gravy  in  the  lap  of  the  right 
or  left-hand  supporter  of  the  host.  We  will 
endeavor  to  assist  those  who  are  unacquainted 
with  the  ''gentle  art  of  carving/'  and  also 
those  who  are  but  slightly  acquainted  with  it, 
by  simply  describing  the  rules  to  follow,  and 
referring  to  the  distincly  marked  illustra- 
tions of  each  dish,  which  will  further  help  to 
bring  light  to  the  minds  of  the  unitiated.  If 
the  bird  be  a  young  duckling,  it  may  be  carved 
like  a  boiled  fowl  (see  following  article),-  but 
in  cases  where  the  duckling  is  very  small  it 


LBG,  WING  AND  NECK 
SONE  OF  DUCK. 


CARVING.  371 

will  be  as  well  not  to  separate  the  leg  from  the  wing,  as  they 
will  not  then  form  too  large  a  portion  for  a  single  serving.  After 
the  legs  and  wings  are  disposed  of,  the  remainder  of  the  duck 
will  be  also  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl;  and  not  much 
difficulty  will  be  experienced,  as  ducklings  are  tender,  and  the 
joints  are  easily  broken  by  a  little  gentle  forcing,  or  penetrated 
by  the  knife.  In  cases  where  the  duck  is  a  large  bird,  the  better 
plan  to  pursue  is  then  to  carve  it  like  a  goose — that  is,  by  cutting 
pieces  from  the  breast  in  the  direction  indicated  by  the  lines 
marked  from  1  to  2,  commencing  to  carve  the  slices  close  to  the 
wing,  and  then  proceeding  upward  from  that  to  the  breastbone. 
If  more  should  be  wanted  than  can  be  obtained  from  both  sides 
of  the  breast,  then  the  legs  and  wings  must  be  attacked  in  the 
same  way  as  is  described  in  connection  with  carving  a  fowl.  It  may 
here  be  remarked  that,  as  the  legs  of  a  duck  are  placed  far  more 
backward  than  those  of  a  fowl,  their  position  causing  the  wad- 
dling motion  of  the  bird,  the  thigh  bones  will  be  found  consid- 
erably nearer  toward  the  backbone  than  in  a  chicken ;  this  is  the 
only  difference  worth  mentioning.  The  carver  should  ask  each 
guest  if  a  portion  of  stuffing  would  be  agreeable;  and  in  order  to 
get  at  this,  a  cut  should  be  made  below  the  breast,  as  shown  by 
the  line  from  3  to  4,  at  the  part  called  the  **  apron,"  and  the 
spoon  Inserted.  As  described  m  the  recipe,  it  is  an  excellent 
plan,  when  a  couple  of  ducks  are  served,  to  have  one  with  and 
the  other  without  stuffing.  As  to  the  prime  parts  of  a  duck, 
it  has  been  said  that  **the  wings  of  a  flyer  and  the  legs  of  a 
swimmer  "  are  severally  the  best  portions.  Some  persons  are 
fond  of  the  feet  of  the  duck ;  and,  in  trussing,  these  should  never 
be  taken  off.  The  ]eg,  wing,  and  neck  bone  are  here  shown;  so 
that  it  will  be  easy  to  see  the  shape  they  should  be  w^hen  cut  off. 

BOILED  FOWL. 

This  will  not  be  found  a  very  difficult  member  of  the  poultry 
family  to  carve,  unless,  as  may  happen,  a  very  old  farm-yard  oc- 
cupant, useless  for  egg-laying  purposes, 
has,  by  some  unlucky  mischance,  been  in 
troduced  into  the  kitchen  as  a  '*  fine  young 
chicken."  Skill,  however,  and  the  appli- 
cation of  a  small  amount  of  strength,  com  boiled  fowl. 


372  CAKVING. 

bincd  with  a  Hnc  iiccpin^;;  of  tlic  temper,  will  even  get  over  that 
difficulty.  Fixing  the  fork  firmly  in  the  breast,  let  the  knife 
be  sharply  passed  along  the  line  show^n  from  1  to  2 ;  then  cut 
downward  from  that  line  to  figure  3;  and  the  wing,  it  will  be 
found,  can  be  easily  withdrawn.  The  shape  of  the  wing  should 
be  like  the  accompanying  engraving.  Let  the  fork  be  placed  in- 
side the  leg,  which  should  be  gently  forced  away 
from  the  body  of  the  fowl;  and  the  joint,  being  thus 
discovered,  the  carver  can  readily  cut  through  it, 
and  the  leg  can  be  served.  When  the  leg  is  dis- 
placed, it  should  be  of  the  same  shape  as  that  shown 
in  the  annexed  woodcut.  The  legs  and  wings  on 
either  side  having  been  taken  off,  the  carver  should 
draw  his  knife  through  the  flesh  in  the  direction  of 
the  line  4  to  5:  by  this  means  the  knife  can  be 
slipped  underneath  the  merrythought,  which,  being 
lifted  up  and  pressed  backward,  will  immediately 

LKO,  VrjTin  AND  I'  1  >  J 

NECKiJoNK  OF  come  off.  The  collar  or  neck-bones  are  the  next  to 
consider;  these  lie  on  each  side  of  the  merrythought, 
close  under  the  upper  part  of  the  wings;  and,  in  order  to  free 
these  from  the  fowl,  they  must  also  be  raised  by  the  knife  at  their 
broad  end,  and  turned  from  the  body  toward  the  breastbone, 
until  the  shorter  piece  of  the  bone,  as  shown  in  the  cut,  breaks 
off.  There  will  now  be  left  only  the  breast,  with  the  ribs.  The 
breast  can  be,  without  difficulty,  disengaged  from  the  ribs,  by 
cutting  through  the  latter,  which  will  offer  little  impediment. 
The  side-bones  are  now  to  betaken  off;  and  to  do  this,  the  lower 
end  of  the  back  should  be  turned  from  the  carver,  who  should 
press  the  point  of  the  knife  through  the  top  of  the  backbone, 
near  the  center,  bringing  it  down  toward  the  end  of  the  back, 
completely  through  the  bone.  If  the  knife  is  now  turned  in  the 
opposite  direction,  the  joint  will  be  easily  separated  from  the 
vertebrae.  The  backbone  being  now  uppermost,  the  fork  should 
be  pressed  firmly  dow^n  on  it,  whilst  at  the  same  time  the  knife 
should  be  emploj'ed  in  raising  up  the  lower  small  end  of  the 
fowl  tow^ard  the  fork,  and  thus  the  back  will  be  dislocated  about 
its  middle.  The  wings,  breast,  and  merrythought  are  esteemed 
the  prime  parts  of  a  fowl,  and  are  usually  served  to  the  ladies 
of  the  company,  to  whom  legs,  except  as  a  matter  of  paramount 


CARVING. 


373 


necessity,  should  not  be  given.  Byron  gave  it  as  one  reason  why 
he  did  not  like  dining  with  ladies,  that  they  always  had  the 
wings  of  the  fowl,  which  he  himself  preferred.  We  hi^ard  a  gen- 
tleman who,  when  he  might  have  had  a  wing,  declared  his  par- 
taility  for  a  leg,  saying  that  he  had  been  obliged  to  eat  legs  for  so 
long  a  time,  that  he  had  at  last  come  to  like  them  better  than  the 
other  more  prized  parts.  If  the  fowl  is,  capon  like,  very  large, 
slices  may  be  carved  from  its  breast  in  the  same  manner  as  from 
a  turkey's. 

ROAST    FOWL. 

Generally  speaking,  it  is  not  necessary  so  completely  to  cut  up 
a  fowl  as  we  have  described  in  the  preceding  paragraphs,  unless, 
indeed,  a  large  family-party  is  assembled, 
and  there  are  a  number  of  ''little  mouths" 
to  be  filled,  or  some  other  such  cir- 
cumstances prevail.  A  roast  fowl  is 
carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a  boiled 
fowd,  by  cutting  along  the  line  from  1  to  2,  and  then  round 
the  leg  between  it  and  the  wing.  The  markings  and  de- 
tached pieces,  as  shown  in  the  engravings  under  the  heading  of 
''Boiled  Fowl,"  supersede  the  necessity  of  our  lengthily  again 
describing  the  operation.  It  may  be  added,  that  the  liver,  being 
considered  a  delicacy,  should  be  divided,  and  one  half  served 
with  each  wing.  In  the  case  of  a  fowl  being  stuffed,  it  will  be 
proper  to  give  each  guest  a  portion,  unless  it  be  not  agreeable  to 
some  one  of  the  party. 

ROAST   GOOSE. 


BOAST  FOWL. 


It  would  not  be  fair  to  say  that  this  dish  bodes  a  great  deal  of 
happiness  to  an  inexperienced  carver,  especially  if  there  is  a  large 
party  to  serve,  and  the  slices  off 
the  breast  should  not  suffice  to  sat- 
isfy the  desires  and  cravings  of 
many  wholesome  appetites,  pro- 
duced, may  be,  by  the  various 
sports  in  vogue    at   Thanksgiving  boast  goose. 

and  Christmas.     The  beginning  of  the  task,  however,  is  not  in  any 
way  difficult.     Evenly  cut  slices,  not  too  thick  or  too  thin,  should 


374 


CARVING. 


Leg,  \riNG  and  neck- 
bone  OF  GOOSE. 


be  carved  from  the  breast  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  2  to  8; 
after  the  first  slice  has  been  cut  a  hole  should 
be  made  in  the  part  called  the  apron,  passing 
it  round  the  line,  as  indicated  by  the  figures  1, 
1,  l;liere  the  stuffing  is  placed,  and  some  of 
this  should  be  served  on  each  plate,  unless  it  is 
discovered  that  it  is  not  agreeable  to  the  taste 
of  some  one  guest.  If  the  carver  manages 
clevcrl}^  he  will  be  able  to  cut  a  very  large 
number  of  fine  slices  off  the  breast,  and  the 
more  so  if  lie  commences  close  down  by  the 
wing,  and  carves  upward  toward  the  ridge  of 
the  breastbone.  As  many  slices  as  can  be 
taken  from  the  breast  being  carved,  the  wings 
should  be  cut  off ;  and  the  same  process  as  de- 
scribed in  carving  boiled  fowl  is  made  use  of  in  this  instance, 
only  more  dexterity  and  greater  force  will  most  probably  be  re- 
quired ;  the  shape  of  the  leg,  when  disengaged  from  the  body  of 
the  goose,  should  be  like  that  shown  in  the  accompanying  en- 
graving. It  will  be  necessary,  perhaps,  in  taking  off  the  leg,  to 
turn  the  goose  on  its  side,  and  then,  pressing  down  the  small  end 
of  the  leg,  the  knife  should  be  passed  under  it  from  the  top  quite 
down  to  the  joint;  the  leg  being  now  turned  back  by  the  fork, 
the  knife  must  cut  through  the  joint,  loosening  the  thighbone 
from  its  socket.  The  merrythought,  w^hicli  in  a  goose  is  not  so 
large  as  might  be  expected,  is  disengaged  in  the  same  way  as 
that  of  a  fowl — by  passing  the  knife  under  it,  and  pressing  it 
backward  toward  the  neck.  The  neck-bones,  of  which  we  give 
a  cut,  are  freed  by  the  same  process  as  those  of  a  fowl ;  and  the 
same  may  be  said  of  all  the  other  parts  of  this  bird.  The  breast 
of  a  goose  is  the  part  most  esteemed;  all  parts,  however,  are 
good,  and  full  of  juicy  flavor. 

PIGEON. 

A  very  straightforward  plan  is  adopted  in  carving  a  pigeon ;  the 
knife  is  carried  sharply  in  the  direction  of 
the  line  as  shown  from  1  to  2,  entirely 
through  the  bird,  cutting  it  into  two  pre- 
cisely equal  and  similar  parts.  If  it  is 
necessaiy  to  make  three  pieces  of   it,  a 


CARVING. 


375 


small  wing  should  be  cut  off  with  the  leg  on  either  side,  thus 
serving  two  guests;  and,  by  this  means,  there  will  be  sufficient 
meat  left  on  the  breast  to  send  to  the  third  guest. 

RABBITS. 

In  carving  a  boiled  rabbit,  let  the  knife  be  drawn  on  each  side 
of  the  backbone,  the  whole  length  of  the  rabbit,  as  shown  by  the 
dotted  line  3  to  4;  thus  the  rabbit  w^ill  be 
in  three  parts  in  the  direction  of  the  line 
from  1  to  2 ;  then  let  the  leg  be  taken  off, 
as  shown  by  the  line  5  to  G,  and  the  shoul- 
der, as  shown  by  the  line  7  to  8.  This,  boiled  rabbit. 
in  our  opinion,  is  the  best  plan  to  carve  a  rabbit,  although 
there  are  other  modes  wiiicli  are  preferred  by  some. 

A  roast  rabbit  is  rather  differently  trussed  from  one  that  is 
meant  to  be  boiled ;  but  the  carving  is  nearly  similar,  as  will  be 
seen  by  the  cut.  The  back  should  be 
divided  into  as  many  pieces  as  it  will 
give,  and  the  legs  and  shoulders  can 
then  be  disengaged  in  the  same  manner 
as  those  of  the  boiled  animal. 


BOAST  KABBIT. 


EOAST  TTJBKEY. 


ROAST  TURKEY. 

A  noble  dish  is  a  turkey,  roast  or  boiled.  A  Christmas  din- 
ner, with  the  middle  classes  of  this  country,  would  scarcely  be 
a  Christmas  dinner  without  its  turkey ; 
and  we  can  hardly  imagine  an  object  of 
greater  envy  than  is  presented  by  a  re- 
spected portly  paterfamilias  carving,  at 
the  season  devoted  to  good  cheer  and 
genial  charity,  his  ow^n  fat  turkey,  and 
carving  it  well.  The  only  art  consists,  as  in  the  carving  of  a 
goose,  in  getting  from  the  breast  as  many  fine  slices  as  possible; 
and  all  must  have  remarked  the  very  great  difference  in  the  large 
number  of  people  whom  a  good  carver  will  find  slices  for,  and 
the  comparatively  few  that  a  bad  carver  will  succeed  in  serving. 
As  w^e  have  stated  in  both  the  carving  of  a  duck  and  goose,  the 
carver  should  commence  cutting  slices  close  to  the  wing  from  2 
to  3,  and  then  proceed  upward  toward  the  ridge  of  the  breast- 
bone ;  this  is  not  th^  usual  plan,  but,  in  practice,  will  be  found 


376  CARVING. 

the  best.  The  breast  is  the  only  part  which  is  looked  on  as  fine 
in  a  turkey,  the  legs  being  very  seldom  cut  off  and  eaten  at  table ; 
they  are  usually  removed  to  the  kitchen,  where  they  are  taken 
off,  as  here  marked,  to  appear  only  in  a  form  which  seems  to 
have  a  special  attraction  at  a  bachelor's  supper-table—we  mean 
devilled :  served  in  this  way,  they  are  especially  liked  and  relished. 
A  boiled  turkey  is  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  when  roasted. 


GAME  CARVING. 

WILD   DUCK. 

As  game  is  almost  universally  served  as  a  dainty,  and  not  as  a 
dish  to  stand  the  assault  of  an  altogether  fresh  appetite,  these 
dishes  are  not  usually  cut  up  entirely,  but  only  those  parts  are 
_  served  of  each  which  are  considered 

^^;;n:r^^^^tf«*^      the  best-flavored  and  the  primest.     Of 
„|2^^^^g^J^^  wild-fowl,  the  breast  alone  is  consid- 

^  — ^^Yrr^'^"^^S^''ir==-       ered  by  epicures  worth  eating,   and 

WILD  DUCK.  slices  are  cut  from  this,  in  the  direction 

indicated  by  the  lines,  from  1  to  2;  if  necessary,  the  leg  and  wing 
can  be  taken  off  by  passing  the  knife  from  3  to  4,  and  by  gen- 
erally following  the  directions  described  for  carving  boiled  fowl. 

BOAST    HARE. 

The  *' Grand  Carver"  of  olden  times,  a  functionary  of  no  or- 
dinary dignity,  was  pleased  when  he  had  a  hare  to  manipulate, 
for  his  skill  and  grace  had  an  opportunity  of  display.     Diners  a 
la  Busse    may  possibly,    ere  while,    save 
modern  gentlemen  the  necessity  of  learn- 
ing the  art  which  was  in  auld  lang  syne 
one  of  the  necessary  accomplishments  of 
ROAST  HARE.  thc  youtliful  squire;  but,  until  side- ta- 

bles become  universal,  or  till  we  see  the  office  of  "grand 
carver  "  once  more  instituted,  it  will  be  well  for  all  to  learn  how 
to  assist  at  the  carving  of  this  dish,  which,  if  not  the  most  ele- 
gant in  appearance,  is  a  very  general  favorite.  The  hare,  hav- 
ing its  head  to  the  left,  as  shown  in  the  woodcut,  should  be 
first  served  by  cutting  slices  from  each  side  of  the  backbone,  in 


CARVING.  377 

the  direction  of  the  lines  from  3  to  4.  After  these  prime  parts 
are  disposed  of,  the  leg  should  next  be  disengaged  by  cutting 
round  the  line  indicated  by  the  figures  5  to  6.  The  shoulders 
will  then  be  taken  off  by  passing  the  knife  round  from  7  to  8. 
The  back  of  the  hare  should  now  be  divided  by  cutting  quite 
through  its  spine,  as  shown  by  the  line  t  to  2,  taking  care  to  feel 
with  the  point  of  the  knife  for  a  joint  where  the  back  may  be 
readily  penetrated.  It  is  the  usual  plan  not  to  serve  any  bone  in 
helping  hare;  and  thus  the  flesh  should  be  sliced  from  the  legs 
and  placed  alone  on  the  plate.  In  large  establishments,  and 
where  men-cooks  are  kept,  it  is  often  the  case  that  the  backbone 
of  the  hare,  especially  in  old  animals,  is  taken  out,  and  then  the 
process  of  carving  is,  of  course,  considerably  facilitated.  A 
great  point  to  be  remembered  in  connection  with  carving  hare  is, 
that  plenty  of  gravy  should  accompany  each  helping;  otherwise 
this  dish,  which  is  naturally  dry,  will  lose  half  its  flavor,  and  so 
become  a  failure.  Stufling  is  also  served  with  it ;  and  the  ears, 
which  should  be  nicely  crisp,  and  the  brains  of  the  hare,  are 
esteemed  as  delicacies  by  many  connoisseurs. 

PARTRIDGES. 

There  are  several  ways  of  carving  this  most  familiar  game 
bird.     The  more  usual  and  summary  mode  is  to  carry  the  knife 
sharply  along  the  top  of  the  breastbone 
of   the  bird,  and  cut  it  quite  through,  /^^^^ 

thus  dividing  it  into  two  precisely  equal     ^^J^.  ^s^^^^B^^ 
and  similar  parts,  in  the  same  manner  as        ~"^=-=— -:^=^^^^^ 
carving  a  pigeon.     Another  plan  is  to  cut 
it  into  three  pieces,  viz. :  by  severing  a  /F^' i^ 

small  wing  and  leg  on  either  side  from  it/l^i^  /^^ 

the  body,   by  following  the  line  1  to  2     "^j^^^S^^^^m-^ 
in    the    upper    woodcut,   thus    making  ^'    ^^^ 

two  helpings,  when  the  breast  will  re-  ^^'^st  partridges. 
main  for  a  third  plate.  The  most  elegant  manner  is  that  ol 
thrusting  back  the  body  from  the  legs,  and  then  cutting  through 
the  breast  in  the  direction  shown  by  the  line  1  to  2 ;  this  plan 
will  give  four  or  more  ^  small  helpings.  A  little  bread-sauce 
should  be  served  to  each  guest. 


378 


CARVING. 


TRAIRIE   HEN. 


the  finest  flavor. 


Grouse  may  be  carved  in  the  way  first  de- 
scribed in  carving  partridge.  The  backbone 
of  the  grouse  is  highly  esteemed  by  many, 
and  this  part  of  many  game  birds  is  considered 


PHEASANT. 


Fixing  the  fork  in  the  breast,  let  the  carver  cut  slices  from  it 
in  the  direction  of  the  lines  from  2  to  1;  these  are  the  prime 
pieces.  If  there  be  more  guests  to 
satisfy  than  these  slices  will  serve, 
then  let  the  legs  and  wings  be  disen- 
gaged in  the  same  manner  as  de- 
Ko AST  PHEASANT.  scnbcd  lu  carvlug  boiled  fowl;  the 

point  where  the  wing  joins  the  neckbone  being  carefully  found. 
The  merrythought  will  come  off  in  the  same  way  as  that  of  a 
fowl.  The  most  valued  parts  are  the  same  as  those  which  are 
most  considered  in  a  fowl. 


One  of  these  small  but  delicious  birds  may  be  given,  whole, 
to  a  gentleman ;  but  in  helping  a  lady,  it  will  be  better  to  cut 
them  quite  through  the  center,  from  1  to  2,  completely  dividing 
them  into  equal  and  like  portions,  and  put  only  one  half  on 
the  plate. 

HAUNCH   OF   VENISON. 

This  is  a  grand  dish  for  a  knight  of  the  carving-knife  to  exercise 
his  skill  upon,  and,  what  will  be  pleasant  for  many  to  know, 

there  is  but  little  difl^culty 
in  the  performance.  An 
incision  being  made  com- 
pletely down  to  the  bone, 
in  the  direction  of  the  line 
1  to  2,  the  gravy  will  then 
be  able  easily  to  flow ;  when  slices,  not  too  thick,  should  be  cut 
alone:  the  haunch,  as  indicated  bv  the  line  4  to  3 ;  that  end  of  the 


HAUNCH   OF  VENISON. 


CARVING.  379 

joint  marked  3  having  been  turned  toward  the  carver,  so  thai 
he  may  have  a  more  complete  command  over  the  joint.  Al- 
though some  epicures  affect  to  believe  that  some  parts  of  the 
haunch  are  superior  to  others,  yet  we  doubt  if  there  is  any  dif- 
ference between  the  slices  cut  above  and  below  the  line.  It 
should  be  borne  in  mind  to  serve  each  guest  with  a  portion  of 
fat;  and  the  most  expeditious  carver  be  the  best  carver,  as,  like 
mutton,  venison  soon  begins  to  chill,  when  it  loses  much  of  its 
charm. 

WOODCOCK. 

This  bird,  like  a  partridge,  may  be  carved  by  cutting  it  exactly 
into  two  like  portions,  or  made  into  three  helpings,  as  described 
in  carving  partridge.  The  backbone  is  considered  a  tit -bit  of  a 
v^oodcock,  and  by  many  the  thigh  is  also 
thought  a  great  delicacy.  This  bird  is  served 
in  the  manner  advised  by  Brillat  Savarin  in 
connection  with  the  pheasant,  viz. :  on  toast 
svhich  has  received  its  drippings  while  toast-  woodcock 

ing;  and  a  piece  of  this  toast  should  invariably  accompany  each 
plate. 

LANDRAIL. 

Landrail,  being  trussed  like  Snipe,  with  the  exception  of  its 
being  drawn,  may  be  carved  in  the  same  manner.     (See  Snipe.) 

Ortolans  are  usually  helped  whole,  but  may  be  divided  for 
ladies.     (See  Snipe.) 

PTARMIGAN. 

Ptarmigan,  being  of  much  the  same  size  and  trussed  in  the  same 
cnanner,  as  the  red-bird,  may  be  carved  in  the  same  manner  de- 
scribed in  Partridge  and  Grouse  Carving. 

QUAILS. 

Quails,  being  trussed  and  served  like  Woodcock,  may  be  simi- 
larly carved. 

PLOVERS. 

Plovers  may  be  carved  like  Quails  or  Woodcock,  being  trussed 
and  served  in  the  same  way  as  those  birds. 


380  CARVING. 


TEAL. 


Teal,  being  of  the  same  character  as  Widgeon  and  Wild  Duck, 
may  be  treated,  in  carving,  in  the  same  style. 


WIDGEON. 


Widgeon  may  be  carved  in  the  same  way  as  described  in  re- 
gard to  Wild  Duck. 


THE  END. 


INDEX. 


Page. 
«BNERAL    PRINCIPLES   OF 
COOKING. 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


Cake  Box,  12 

Children,  label  them,  12 
Chamber,  Mantel  and  Toilet 

Covers,  12 

Dusters,  10 

Fire,  to  put  out,  13 

Household  management,  6 

Household  memoranda,  9 

Kitchen  Furnishing,  6 

Kitchen  Holders,  10 

Looking  Glasses,  to  clean,  12 

Mattresses,  14 

Mending,  10 

Night  Clothes,  13 

Paper  and  String,  10 

Pay  as  you  go,  13 

Piece  Bags,  10 

Packing  away  clothes,  11 

Rainy  Days,  11 

Scorch,  to  take  out,  12 

Sheets,  13 

Table,  To  clean  a  13 

Wash  Rags,  12 

HINTS   ON   ECONOMY. 

Apples,  to  save  specked,  14 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  15 

Cheap  Dishes,  16 
Children  eating  between  meals,  17 

Children  eating  gravy,  15 


Paeob 

Corners  and  holes,  16 
Examine  Safes,  Refrigerators, 

&c.,  16 

Family  Worship,  16 

Morning  Dresses,  16 

Outside  Garments,  14 

Pickle  and  Preserve  Jars,  14 

Provide  for  Monday,  14 

Purchase  things  in  season,  14 

Rise  early,  15 

Saturday  Night,  15 

Servants,  fewer  the  better,  16 

Stew  for  family  dinner,  15 

Sweeping,  preparing  for,  16 

Table,  serve  neatly,  17 

Tea-leaves  on  carpets,  16 

THE   USE   OF   FUEL. 


Grate  Fires, 

18 

Kitchen  Ranges, 

18 

Parlor  Heaters, 

19 

Spring  Fuel, 

19 

SOUPS. 

Asparagus  Soup,  with  green 

peas,  27 

Artichoke  Soup,  27 

Barley  Soup  29 

Brown  Gravy  Soup,  26 

Bread  t^oup,  31 

Baked  Soup,  32 

Broth,  Scotch  Mutton  33 

Broth  for  an  Invalid,  33 

Carrot  Soup,  29 

Common  Soup,  22 


382 


INDEX. 


Page. 

Concord  Soup,  25 

OxWs  Head  Soup,  brown,  26 

Chicken  Soup,  26 

Colandered  Soup,  29 

English  Pea  Soup,  28 

Fish  Soups,  23 

French  Soup,  80 

Gumbo,  24 

Green  Pea  Soup,  28 

Gourd  Soup,  80 

German  Pancake  Soup,  32 

Hotch  Potch,  33 

Inexpensive,  32 

Jenny  Lind's  Soup,  31 

Jardiniere  Soup,  82 

Mock  Turtle  ^oup,  25 

Onion  Soup,  with  milk,  30 

Onion  Soup,  with  water,  31 

Oyster  Soup,  27 

Oyster  Mouth  Soup,  27 

Parsnip  Soup,  29 

Pea  Soup,  without  meat,  28 

Pea  Soup,  green,  28 

Pea  Soup,  English,  29 

Pumpkin  Soup,  30 

Rabbit  Soup,  24 

Stock  from  Bones,  21 

Stock  without  Meat,  21 

Stock,  Bran  21 

Stock,  Cowheel  21 
Stock,  four  quarts  of  Brown       22 

Stock,  four  quarts  of  White  22 
Soup  or  Stock  from  one  pound 

of  beef,  23 

Sorrel  Soup,  without  meat,  28 

Spring  Soup,  24 

Sheepshead  Soup,  25 

Soup,  Jardiniere  82 

Soup,  inexpensive,  32 

Soup  for  Invalids,  24 

Tomato  Soup,  81 

Vermicelli  Soup,  81 

Winter  Soup,  23 

White  Soup,  25 


MEATS. 


A-la-mode  Beef, 
Beef  Balls, 


35 

89 


Beef  Croquettes,  39 

Boiled  Beef,  ^  84 
Brisket  of  Beef  for  Christmas, 

cured,  84 

Broiled  Beef  steaks,  35 

Braised  Beef,  36 

Brisket  of  Beef  stuffed,  86 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  41 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops,  42 

Broiled  Cold  Mutton,  43 

Breast  of  Veal,  stutfed,  47 

Breast  of  Veal,  stewed,  47 

Blanquette  of  Veal,  49 

Beefsteak,  mock,  49 
Boston  Pork  and  Apple  pie,         62 

Bacon  Omelet,  53 

Bacon  Egg-cap,  58 

Boiled  Ham,  54 

Broiled  Ham,  54 
Beef  Tea,                                     298 

Cured  Beef  to  eat  cold,  85 

Cold  minced  Beef,  40 

Cold  Mutton  broiled,  43 

Croquettes,  mutton,  44 

Cutlets,  veal,  48 

Cheese,  veal,  61 

Cutlets,  pork,  52 

Curing  Hams,  63 

Dried  Beef  cooked,  40 

English  pork  or  raised  pie,  52 

Egg-cap,  bacon,  63 

Fillets  of  beef,  37 
Fillets  of  Beef  with  Anchovy,  38 
Fillets  of  Beef  with  Forcemeat^  88 

Fried  Mutton  Chops,  43 

Fritters,  veal,  4^ 

Hashed  Beef,  40 

Hamburgh  Pickle  for  Beef,  89 

Hunter's  Beef,  38 

Hung  Beef,  39 

Hashed  Mutton,  44 
Hashed  mutton  with  mushroom-    45 

Hash,  the  Epicure's  45 

Haras,  to  cure,  85 

Ham,  boiled,  54 

Ham,  sugared,  64 

Ham,  potted,  54 

Ham,  broiled,  64 

Ham  and  tongue  toast,  55 


INDEX. 

383 

Page. 

Page. 

Joint  of  Mutton  roasted. 

42 

Roast  quarter  cf  Lamb, 

42 

Keeping  Beef, 

41 

Roast  joint  of  mutton, 

42 

Knuckle  of  veal. 

48 

Roast  fillet  of  veal. 

47 

Knuckle  of  Veal  with  rice. 

48 

Roast  pig. 

51 

Leg  of  Mutton  in  four  meals. 

41 

Roast  pork, 

51 

Leg  of  Mutton,  broiled. 

41 

Stewed  beef. 

84 

Leg  of  Mutton,  roasted. 

41 

Spiced  beef. 

87 

Leg  of  Mutton  with  Oysters, 

42 

Shoulder  of  lamb,  roasted, 

42 

Loin  of  Veal, 

48 

Savory  mutton  chops, 

43 

Leonis  Favorite  dish. 

49 

Stew,  Western 

43 

Loaves,  Westphalia 

54 

Shoulder  of  veal. 

46 

Mock  Duck, 

86 

Stewed  loin  of  veal. 

46 

Meat  Pie  for  Lunch, 

39 

Stewed  breast  of  veal. 

47 

Minced  Beef,  cold. 

40 

Spare  rib  of  pork. 

51 

Mutton  chops  broiled. 

42 

Sugared  ham. 

64 

Mutton  chops  fried. 

43 

Tough  beef. 

41 

Glutton  chops  with  cucumbers,    43 

Veal,  shoulder  of 

46 

Mutton  chops,  savory. 

48 

Veal,  stewed  loin  of 

46 

Mutton  broiled,  cold. 

43 

Veal,  breast  of  stuffed 

47 

Mutton  Pudding, 

43 

Veal,  breast  of  stewed 

47 

Mutton  croquettes. 

44 

Veal,  roast  fillet  of 

47 

Mutton,  hashed, 

44 

Veal,  loin  of 

48 

Minced  uncooked  Mutton, 

44 

Veal,  knuckle  of 

48 

Mutton  hashed  with 

Veal  cutlets. 

48 

Mushrooms, 

46 

Veal  minced  with  maccaroni, 

48 

Minced  Mutton, 

45 

Veal  fritters. 

49 

Minced  Mutton  with 

Veal,  blanquette  of 

49 

Cucumbers, 

45 

Veal  rolls. 

49 

Minced  Veal  with  maccaroni, 

48 

Veal,  minced. 

60 

Mock  Beefsteak, 

49 

Veal  omelette. 

50 

Minced  Veal 

50 

Veal  olives. 

50 

Ox  cheek  stuffed  and  baked. 

86 

Veal  cheese. 

51 

Omelette,  veal, 

50 

Westphalia  loaves. 

54 

Olives,  veal. 

50 

Pudding,  mutton 

43 

SECONDARY     MEATS 

Pig,  roast, 

41 

Pork,  roast. 

41 

Baked  Irish  Stew, 

56 

Pork,  spare  rib  of 

62 

Boiled  Tongue, 

57 

Pork  cutlets. 

51 

Balls,  Grandmother's 

Pork  and  Apple  pie,  Boston 

51 

Breakfast, 

58 

Pork  pie,  English  or  raised 

62 

Brain  Cake, 

61 

Pork  and  potato  pie. 

52 

Brawn, 

62 

Pork  relish. 

53 

Cold  Meats,  to  cook. 

59 

Potted  Ham, 

54 

Cowheel, 

69 

Quarter  of  lamb,  roasted. 

42 

Co  wheel  fried. 

60 

Quarter  of  lamb  as  a  savory 

Calf's  Head  Cake, 

66 

dish. 

46 

Calf's  Head  Hash, 

61 

Roast  leg  of  mutton. 

41 

Dalma,  Turkish 

69 

Roast  shoulder  of  lamb, 

42 

Fried  Tripe, 

62 

384 


TND  EX. 


Grandmother's  Breakfast 

Bulls, 
Hash,  Savory  Winter 
Hash,  Calf's  Head 
Head  and  Hinge,  Lamb's 
Iiish  Stew, 

Lamb's  Head  and  Hinge, 
Meat  Omnium, 
Pie,  Yale  Boat, 
Risibles, 
Stew,  Irish 
Stew,  baked  Irish 
Sweet  Breads, 

Sausage  meat  and  Sausages, 
Savory  winter  hash. 
Sheep's  TrottersV 
Sweetbread,  Liver^x^d 

Heart,  / 

Stewed  Tripe,  ^ 

Tongue,  boiled 
Turkish  Dalma, 
Toad-in-the-hole, 
Trotters,  Sheep's 
Tripe, 

Tripe  Fried, 
Yale  Boat  Pie, 

FISH. 

Boiled  Fish, 

Boiled  White  fish. 

Broiled  White  fish, 

Boiled  Salmon, 

Broiled  Salmon, 

Broiled  Shad, 

Baked  Shad, 

Boiled  Bass,  Rock  fish,  etc. 

Baked  Cod,  Black  fish.  Haddock, 
69 
69 

68 

69 
70 
70 
72 
73 
73 


Page. 

68 
o9 
61 
61 
56 
61 
57 
66 
68 
66 
67 
57 
68 
59 
60 

60 
62 
67 
69 
69 
60 
62 
62 
66 


64 
65 

66 
65 
66 
67 
67 
68 


Boiled  Whitings, 

Codfish  and  potatoes  **  picked 

up," 
Cod,  Blackfish,  Haddock,  &c., 

baked. 
Cod,  Haddock,  etc.,  fried. 
Cod  or  Salmon  cutlets, 
Chowder,  Fish, 
Cakes.  Fish, 
Cod,  Salt  stewed, 


Pagii 

Cape  Cod  Chowder, 

73 

Cod  Fish  and  Potatoes, 

68 

Fried  Fish, 

64 

Fried  Shad, 

67 

Fried  Mackerel, 

68 

Fish  Roes,  in  cases. 

70 

Fricasseed  small  fish. 

70 

Fry,  Trenton  Falls, 

70 

Fish  and  Maccaroni, 

71 

Fried  Smelts, 

71 

Fresh  Herrings, 

71 

Fish,  to  dress  a  second  time, 

72 

Fish  Pudding, 

72 

Fish  Cakes, 

73 

Haddock  baked  and  fried. 

69 

Herrings,  fresh, 

71 

Kippered  Salmon, 

66 

Mackerel,  fried. 

68 

Mackerel,  soused. 

68 

Maccaroni,  Fish  and 

71 

Pudding,  Fish, 

72 

Roes,  fish  in  cases. 

70 

iLalmon,  boiled. 

65 

Salmon,  broiled. 

66 

Salmon  and  Salad, 

66 

Salmon,  to  kipper. 

66 

Salmon,  pickled. 

66 

Shad,  broiled 

67 

Shad,  fried 

67 

Shad,  baked 

67 

Shad  maitre  d'  hotel. 

67 

Soused  Mackerel, 

68 

Souchy  or  Soodjee,  water 

69 

Salmon  Cutlets,  or  Cod 

70 

Small  fish  fricasseed. 

70 

Smelts,  fried 

71 

Second  time.  To  dress  fish 

72 

Salt  Cod,  stewed 

73 

Salt  Cod  and  Potatoes, 

73 

Trenton  Falls  Fry, 

70 

White  fish  broiled. 

65 

White  fish  boiled. 

65 

Whitings  boiled. 

69 

Water  Souchy  or  Soodjee, 

69 

OYSTERS,   SHELLFISH, 


EELS,     ETC. 


Boiled  Eels, 


79 


INDEX, 


Boiled  Lobster, 

Balls,  Lobster 

Collared  Eels, 

Crabs  and  Crayfish, 

Crab  and  Lobstet  Outlets, 

Eels  Fried, 

Eels  Spatched, 

Eels  Collared, 

Eels  Stewed, 

Eels  Boiled, 

Eel  pie, 

Fried  Oysters, 

Fried  Eels, 

Loaves  Oyster 

Lobsters, 

Lobster,  to  boil 

Lobster  Salad, 

Lobster  Sauce, 

Lobster  and  Crab  Cutlets, 

Lobster  Balls, 

Lobster  Curry, 

Maccaroni,  Oysters  and 

Muscles,  stewed 

Oyster  Etiquette, 

Oysters  Stewed, 

Oysters  Scalloped, 

Oysters  Fried, 

Oyster  Pies, 

Oyster  Patties, 

Oyster  Loaves, 

Oysters  and  Maccaroni, 

Oysters  for  Lunch, 

Oysters  Pickled, 

Pie,  Oyster 

Patties,  Oysters 

Pickled  Oysters, 

Pie,  Eel 

Stewed  Oysters, 

Scalloped  Oysters, 

Stewed  Muscles, 

Sp'\tched  Eels 

Stewed  Eels, 


MUSHROOMS. 


Fricasseed, 
Loaves, 
Powder, 
Pickled, 


Page. 

79 
80 
78 
80 
80 
78 
78 
78 
79 
79 
79 
76 
78 
76 
79 
79 
80 
80 
80 
80 
81 
77 
78 
75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
76 
76 
77 
79 
75 
75 
78 
78 
79 


82 
83 
82 
82 


Stewed, 

Toast, 

To  know  them, 

FOWLS    AND    GAME. 


Page, 
8? 
83 
82 


Alice  Cary's  Minced  Chicken,     91 

Boiled  Fowl,  85 

Broiled  Fowl,  86 

Boiled  Goose,  86 

Broiled  Partridge  92 

Birds,  Small  94 

Chicken  Fricassee,  86 

Chicken  Stewed,  88 

Cold  Chicken  Fried,  88 

Chicken,  vol-au-vent  of,  88 

Chicken  with  Cheese,  89 

Chicken  Puffs,  89 

Chicken  Loaf,  89 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  89 

(  hicken  Pie,  89 

Chicken  Pie,  Thanksgiving,  90 

Chicken  Pie,  Aunt  Abby's  90 

Chickens,  Prairie,  91 
Chickens  Prairie,  Roast  and 

Stewed,  91 
Chicken,  Minced,  Alice  Cary's    91 

Crab,  Imitation,  93 

Croquettes  of  Fowl,  93 

Duck,  roast  85 

Duck  with  Green  Peas,  87 

Duck,  New  York  Mock  87 

Devilled  Turkey  Legs,  91 

Fricassee,  Chicken  86 

Fried  cold  Chicken,  88 
Forcemeat  for  Roast  Turkey, 

Veal,  &c.  94 

Goose  boiled,  86 

Goose,  Roast  87 

Game  Patties,  93 

Grouse,  Roast  94 

Hashed  Fowl,  92 

Hare  or  Rabbit,  Stewed  95 

Imitation  Crab,  93 

Pot  pie  Chicken,  89 

Pie,  Chicken,  89 
Prairie  Chickens,  Roast  and 

Stewed  91 

Partridge,  Broiled  92 


386 


INDEX. 


Partridge  Salad, 

92 

Partridge  Pie, 

92 

Pigeon  Pie, 

93 

Patties,  Game 

93 

Roast  Turkey, 

85 

Roast  Duck, 

85 

Roast  Fowl, 

86 

Roast  Goose, 

87 

Roast  Prairie  Chicken, 

91 

Ro.ist  Grouse, 

94 

Rabbit  Stewed, 

95 

Rabbit  in  Slices, 

95 

Roast  Rabbit, 

96 

Stewed  Turkey  with  Celery 

87 

Stewed  Chicken, 

88 

Stewed  Prairie  Chicken, 

91 

Small  Birds, 

94 

Stewed  Hare  or  Rabbit, 

95 

Turkey,  Roast 

85 

Turkey,  Stewed  with  Celery 

87 

Thanksgiving  Chicken  Pie, 

90 

Turkey's  Legs,  Devilled 

91 

Vol-au-\ent  of  Chicken, 

88 

Venison  Pasty, 

95 

Venison  Pufls, 

95 

Venison  Steak, 

95 

MEAT   SAUCES 

Asparagus  Sauce,  100 

B  ead  Sauce,  97 

Brown  Onion  Sauce,  98 

Batter,  French  101 

Berkshire  Sauce,  101 

Butter,  Drawn  103 

Browning  for  Sauces,  103 

Caper  Sauce,  98 

Cranberry  Sauce,  99 

Celery  Sauce,  100 

Catsup,  Tomato  104 

Catsup,  Mushroom  103 

Catsup,  Walnut  104 

Drawn  Butter,  103 

Egg  Sauce,  98 

French  Batter,  101 

Ho'seradish  Sauce,  99 

Mint  Sauce,  100 

Mild  Mustard,  101 

Made  Dishes,  sauce  for  101 


Pago. 

Mushroom  Catsup, 

103 

Oyster  Sauce, 

98 

Onion  Sauce,  brown 

98 

Rice  Sauce, 

97 

Sauce  for  made  dishes. 

101 

Sauce  for  boiled  Turkey,  or 

Capon, 

101 

Sauce  for  roast  Chicken, 

102 

Sauce  for  boiled  Fish, 

102 

Sauce,  Fish  to  keep  a  year 

102 

Sauce  for  Venison, 

103 

Sauce  for  roast  Beef, 

103 

Tomato  Sauce, 

98 

Turkey's  Egg  Sauce, 

100 

Tomato  Catsup, 

104 

Vinegar  Plant, 

104 

Vinegar,  easy  cider 

105 

Vinegar  of  Marjoram, 

105 

Vinegar  for  Souse, 

105 

Vinegar  for  Soused  Fish, 

105 

Vinegar,  clove 

105 

Vinegar,  tarragon 

105 

Vinegar,  savory 

105 

Vinegar,  celery 

105 

Vinegar,  green  mint 

106 

Vinegar,  raspberry 

106 

"Vinegar,  black  currant 

106 

Vinegar,  Chili 

106 

White  Sauce, 

97 

Walnut  Catsup, 

104 

RELISHES. 

Anchovy  cheese. 

109 

Custard,  savory 

108 

Cheese,  anchovy 

109 

Cheese,  omelet 

109 

Cheese,  fondu                     » 

109 

Cheese,  potted 

110 

Cheese,  pot 

110 

Entrement,  a  German 

107 

Fondu,  straw 

110 

Maccaroni, 

110 

Maccaroni,  timball  of 

111 

Pot  Cheese, 

110 

Relish,  a  cold 

107 

Sandwiches, 

107 

Sandwiches,  dressing  for 

107 

Tomato  Toast, 

108 

INDEX, 


387 


Page.  \ 

Tomato  Omelet,  108 

Toast,  savory  108 

Toasted  Cheese,  108 

PICKLES. 

Asparagus,  118 

Beets.  113 

Beans,  French  114 

Barberries,  117 

Barberries,  sweet  117 

Blackberries,  118 

Cucumbers,  112 

Cabbage,  114 
Cabbage  with  sweet  pickle,        115 

Cabbage,  red  115 

Cucumber,  112 

Green  tomatoes,  113 

Green  pickle,  113 

Gherkins,  IK) 

Lemon,  116 

Mustard,  113 

Mangoes,  115 

Mushrooms,  118 

Onions,  114 

Onions,  Portugal  114 

Oysters,  77 

Piccalilli,  116 

Roots,  117 

Salmon,  69 

Tomatoes,  113 

Tomatoes,  green  113 

Walnuts,  118 

SALADS. 

Chicken,  120 

Carrot,  120 

Chow-chow,  123 

Cabbage  and  Vinegar,  123 

Cold  Slaw,  123 

Chow-chow  Pickle,  123 

Chow-chow,  a  handy  124 

East  India  Salad,  121 

Fish,  121 

Hotch  Potch,  122 

Lobster,  121 

Lettuce,  122 

Potato,  122 


Page. 

Poet's  salad,  122 

Soring  Salads,  120 

Salad  for  Cold  Lamb,  121 

Suffolk  Salad,  122 

Tomato  Salad,  122 

Tomato  Soy,  123 

EGGS. 

Asparagus  and  Eggs,  127 

Apples  and  Eggs,  127 

Boiled,  126 

Buttered,  125 

Cheese  and  Eggs,  127 

Fried  with  Ham,  126 

Fancy  Omelet,  127 

Herring  and  Eggs,  127 

Mushrooms  and  Eggs,  127 

Omelet,  126 

Omelet,  Puff  126 

Omelet  with  Kidneys,  126 

Omelet  with  Herbs,  126 

Poached,  125 

Pickled  Eggs,  128 

Preserve  Eggs,  to  128 

Scrambled,  125 

VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes,  Jerusalem,  133 

Artichoke  Fracis,  133 

Asparagus,  135, 

Beans,  French  135 

Beets,  Young  Boiled  135 

Beans,  Lima,  137 

Beans,  Pork  and  137 

Broccoli,  138 

Corn,  Green,  131 

Corn,  green  on  the  Ear,  132 

Corn  Oysters,  132 

Cucumbers,  Stewed,  133 

Carrots,  Boiled,  137 

Carrots  with  Parsley,  137 

Cabbage,  Boiled,  138 

Cabbage,  Buttered  138 

Cabbage  llelish,  138 

Cabbage  red,  Relish,  138 

Cabbage,  red.  Stewed,  138 

Cabbage,  French  189 


388 

INDEX. 

Page. 

Pag(> 

Cauliflowers, 

134 

Apple,  sweet 

146 

Cauliflower,  Karebit, 

140 

Apple,  green 

140 

Dandelions, 

139 

Apple,  English 

147 

Egg  Plant, 

134 

Apple,  Dried 

149 

Green  Corn, 

131 

Apple,  mock 

149 

Greens,  Spring 

132 

Apple,  invalid 

299 

Onions,  Boiled 

136 

Custard, 

145 

Onions,  Portugal,  Stewed 

136 

Custard,  apple 

145 

Onions,  Portugal  Fried 

136 

Cherry,  Plum,  or  Goosebeiry 

147 

Odors  from  Boiling 

Cocoanut, 

148 

Vegetables, 

282 

Corn  Meal, 

149 

Potatoes,  Boiled 

129 

Fruit, 

147 

Potatoes,  Mashed 

129 

Gooseberry,  etc. 

147 

Potatoes,  Fried 

129 

Grape, 

148 

Potato  Shavings, 

130 

Huckleberry, 

147 

Potatoes,  Stewed 

130 

Lemon, 

145 

Potatoes,  Baked 

130 

Lemon  cream,  Kitty  May's, 

146 

Potato  Pie, 

130 

Mince, 

144 

Potato  Cakes, 

130 

Mince,  English 

144 

Potato  Pudding, 

131 

Mince,  Mrs.  D's. 

145 

Potatoes  a-la-creme, 

131 

Mock  apple  pie. 

149 

Potatoes  Scalloped, 

131 

Plum,  Cherry,  or  Gooseberry 

147 

Peas,  Green 

136 

Pumpkin, 

148 

Parsnips,  fricasseed 

136 

Plum,  dried 

149 

Parsnips,   Fried 

136 

Rhubarb, 

148 

Parsnips,   Boiled 

136 

Squash, 

145 

Succotash, 

132 

Squash  Fritters, 

132 

PUDDINGS. 

Squash,  Boiled 

133 

Sea  Cale, 

133 

Apple,  English, 

150 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster 

133 

Apples, 

151 

Spinach, 

139 

Arrowroot, 

156 

Turnips,  Mashed 

134 

Apple  Linnie's, 

156 

Tomatoes,  Stewed 

135 

Apple  and  Sago, 

156 

Vegetables  to  boil  green, 

131 

Apple  and  Rice, 

158 

Vegetable  Marrows, 

139 

Apple  Dumplings,  Boiled 

166 

Vegetable  Marrow  Tart, 

139 

Apple  Dumplings,  Baked 

166 

Apple  Fritters, 

166 

PASTRY,  (introductory. "i 

Buffilo, 

150 

'  \ 

f 

Bird's  Nest, 

153 

Puddings  and  Pies, 

141 

Bread,  little  Birthday, 

154 

Potato  Pie  Crust, 

143 

Batter,  Little, 

155 

Puff  Paste, 

143 

Baden, 

168 

Pies,  Crust  for  Ra  ised 

144 

Bread, 

162 

Pies,  Meat  Suet,  Crust  for 

144 

Bread  and  Fruit,  Mrs.  Stowe's 

162 

Citron, 

154 

PIES. 

Cherry, 

155 

Cornstarch,  Ice, 

159 

Apple  custard. 

145 

Chester, 

162 

Com, 

Currant  Dumpling,  Little 

Corn,  Nantucket 

Dandy, 

Deacon's  Apple  Indian 

Dumplings, 

English  Roll, 

Exhibition, 

Editor's  Favorite, 

Fruit, 

Fig, 

Fruit,  Minnie's 

Fritters,  Apple 

Huckleberry,  Indian 

Hunting,  Liecestershire 

Howitt's,  Mrs. 

Indian  Fruit, 

Indian  Huckleberry, 

Indian,  Baked 

Ice,  Cornstarch 

Ice, 

Indian,  Boiled 

Indian,  Plain 

Invalid  Cup, 

Lemon, 

Lemon  Dumplings, 

Minnie's  Fruit, 

Nursery,' 

Orange, 

Poor  Man's 

Plum,  Aunt  Mary's 

Plum,  Boiled  Yankee 

Plum,  Mrs.  Croly's  Christmas  160 

Plum,  Baked 

Prune  or  Damson, 

Plum,  English 

Plum  with  Snow, 

Plum,  Small  and  Light 

Poet's, 

Pastor's, 

Rice,  Boiled 

Rice, 

Rice,  Portuguese 

Rice,  French 

Rice    Apple  and 

Kice  Flour, 

Saratoga, 

Snow, 

Seville^ 


INDEX. 

389 

Page. 

Pagft 

164 

Sago, 

159 

164 

Suet, 

161 

165 

Sally  Lunn, 

163 

163 

Tapioca, 

169 

164 

Tapioca,  Cup,  Invalid 

159 

166 

Victoria, 

152 

154 

Washington, 

153 

191 

163 

PUDDING 

SAUCES. 

153 

lo3 

Brandy, 

169 

154 

Cherry, 

168 

166 

Excellent, 

168 

155 

Hard, 

168 

161 

Lemon  Brandy, 

169 

166 

Maple  Sugar, 

168 

152 

Rose  Hip, 

169 

155 

Sweet  Liquid, 

168 

157 

Wine, 

169 

159 

164 

DESSERT 

DISHES. 

165 

165 

Apple  Charlotte, 

171 

800 

Apple  Custard, 

172 

155 

Apple  Souffle, 

17S 

167 

Almond  Blanc  mange. 

176 

154 

Arrowroot  Blanc  mange. 

176 

163 

Apples,  Love 

177 

155 

Apple  Tart, 

178 

151 

Apple  Meringue, 

178 

156 

Apple,  Snow 

179 

159 

Apple  Marmalade 

9 

179 

.s  160 

Apples,  Bak^d 

179 

160 

Apples,  Stewed 

180 

160 

Apple  Cream, 

180 

160 

Apples,  Dried  Stewed 

180 

161 

Apples,  Pippin  Stewed 

180 

164 

Apples,  Ginger 

180 

165 

Apples,  Floating  Island  of 

181 

165 

Apple  Snowballs, 

181 

157 

Apples,  Compote 

of 

181 

157 

Apple  Cream,  Nina's 

181 

151 

Apples,  Mother's 

Surprise 

181 

158 

Apple  Cheese, 

182 

15b 

Apple  Sauce,  Saratoga 

18-2 

158 

Apple  or  Gooseberry  Trifle, 

183 

152 

Apple  Pique, 

186 

152 

Apple  loe. 

190 

158 

Blanc  Mange,  Almond 

176 

390 

IND  E  X. 

Page. 

P»«a 

Blanc  Mange,  Tapioca 

176 

Green  Gooseberries,  Compote 

Blanc   Mange,  Arrrowroot 

176 

of 

184 

BUnc  Mange,  Rice  Flour 

177 

Gooseberry  Fool, 

185 

Blanc  Mange,  Whole  Rice 

177 

Itilian  Cream, 

174 

Blanc  Mange,  Ground  liice 

177 

Icing  for  Tarts, 

183 

Barley  Sugar  for  Children, 

191 

Ice  Cream,  Country 

189 

Cream  Pulfs, 

170 

Ice  Cream,  Strawberry 

190 

Custard, 

171 

Ice  Apple, 

190 

Custard,  Boiled 

171 

Kisses,  Chocolate 

171 

Charlotte,  Apple 

171 

Lemon  Sponge, 

172 

Chocolate  Kisses, 

171 

Lemon  Cream, 

174 

Chocolate  Cream  Custard, 

172 

Love  Apples, 

177 

Custard,  Apple 

172 

Loppered  Milk, 

186 

Custard,  Raspberry 

172 

Lemon  Paste,  to  keep 

189 

Custard,  Rice 

172 

Lemon  Flavor, 

189 

Cream,  Orange 

173 

Lemon  or  Orange  Peel, 

Cream,  Lemon 

174 

Tincture  of 

189 

Cream,  Vanilla 

174 

Lemon  Drops, 

191 

Cream,  Italian 

174 

Meringues, 

175 

Cream,  Tea 

174 

Meringue,  Lucy  Stone's  bread  1 76 

Cream,  Rock 

175 

Mashed  Tarts, 

178 

Charlotte  Russe, 

175 

Marmalade,  Apple 

179 

Cream,  Apple 

180 

MeringueSj  Apple 

178 

(  ompote  of  Apples, 

181 

Mother's  Surprise, 

181 

Cream,  Nina's  Apple 

181 

Milk,  Loppered 

186 

Compute  of  Peaches, 

184 

Molasses  Candy, 

190 

Compote  of  Rhubarb, 

184 

Orange  Cream, 

173 

Compote  of  Red  Currants, 

184 

Orange  Fritters, 

185 

Compote  of  Green  Currants, 

184 

Pasties, 

170 

Compote  of  Green  Gooseber- 

Puifs, Cream 

170 

ries, 

184 

Pippins,  Stewed 

180 

CJherry  Cheese, 

184 

Pears,  Baked 

182 

Chestnuts,  a  Dessert  of 

188 

Pears,  Scalded 

182 

Candy,  Molasses 

190 

Peaches,  Compote  of 

184 

Chocolate  Drops, 

191 

Pineapple  Fritters, 

185 

Dessert,  a  nice  and  cheap 

186 

Prunes,  Stewed 

185 

Dessert,  Fruit  for 

187 

Preserve,  Good  Common 

185 

Dessert  of  Chestnuts, 

188 

Quinces  for  the  Table, 

188 

Eugene  Russe, 

175 

Rice  Custard, 

172 

Fruit  Tarts, 

178 

Raspberry  Custard, 

172 

Floating  Island  of  Apples, 

181 

Rock  Cream, 

175 

Fritters,  Pineapple 

185 

Rice  Flour  Blanc  Mange, 

177 

Fritters,  Apple 

175 

Rice,  Whole  Blanc  Mange, 

177 

Fritters,  Orange 

185 

Rice,  Ground,  Blanc  Mange 

177 

Fruit  for  Dessert, 

187 

Red  Robbin, 

177 

Fruits,  Summer  Mixed 

188 

Rhubarb  Tart, 

183 

Ginger  Apples, 

18) 

Rhubarb,  Compote  of 

183 

Gooseberry  or  Apple  Trifle, 

183 

Rhubarb, 

188 

INDEX, 


391 


Page. 
Souffle,  Strawberry  or  Apple     173 

Souffle,  Sweet  173 

Souffle,  Omelet  173 

Strawberries,  186 

Strawberry  Shortcake,  187 

Sugar  Talfy,  190 

Syruf  for  Candies,  191 

Sugar  Barley,  for  Children  191 

Tea,  Cream  174 

Tapioca  Blanc  Mange,  176 

Tarts,  Mashed  178 

Tarts,  Fruit  178 

Tart,  Apple  178 

Trifle,  183 

Trifle,  Gooseberry  or  Apple  183 

Tart,  Rhubarb  183 

Tarts,  Icing  for  183 

Tomatoes,  188 
Tincture  of  Lemon  or  Orange 

Peel,  189 

Taify,  Sugar  190 

Vanilla  Cream,  174 

SWEET    CAKES. 

Almond  Sponge,  192 

Apple,  197 

Almond,  fine  197 

Apple  cheese  cakes,  207 

Almond  cheese  cakes,  208 

Apple  biscuit,  209 

Bride,  194 

Bread,  Mrs.  Bristol's  198 

Birthday,  203 

Buns,  205 

Bread  cheese  cakes,  207 

Biscuits,  New  Years'  208 

Biscuits,  Cream  208 

Biscuits,  Apple  209 

Biscuits,  Orange  209 

Biscuits,  Moss  209 

Biscuits,  Ginger  209 

Biscuits,  Judge's  210 

Biscuits,  King's  210 

Biscuits.  Graha«i  Fig  210 

Christmas,  a  magnificent,  193 

Christmas,  193 

Connecticut  Election,  195 

Commencement,  New  Haven  195 


Page. 

Currant, 

197 

Cream, 

199 

Cornets  a  Creme, 

200 

Cider, 

200 

Connecticut  Coffee, 

201 

Crullers, 

201 

Cup, 

202 

Cup  Cake,  Molasses 

202 

Cake  without  eggs. 

202 

Christmas,  for  good  children 

203 

Cookies, 

205 

Cheese  Cakes,  Rice 

207 

Cheese  Cakes,  English 

207 

Cheese  Cakes,  Apple 

207 

Cheese  Cakes,  Bread 

207 

Cheese  Cakes,  Cocoanut 

208 

Cheese  Cakes,  Almond 

208 

Cocoanut, 

211 

Doughnuts, 

205 

Fruit,  a  fine 

194 

Fruit,  Pork 

194 

Fried,  without  eggs  or  milk 

201 

Fried, 

201 

Glen  Vis, 

200 

Ginger  Pound  with  fruit, 

201 

Ginger  Snaps, 

206 

Ginger  Nuts, 

206 

Gingerbread,  Sponge 

206 

Gingerbread,  Hard  times 

206 

Ginger  Biscuits, 

209 

Graham  Fig  Biscuits, 

210 

Hickory-nut,  New  Years 

196 

Huckleberry, 

196 

Hard  times,  molasses 

202 

Independence, 

195 

Icing,  Almond 

194 

Icing,  Sugar 

195 

Icing,  Chocolate 

211 

Icing, 

211 

Jenny's 

202 

Jumbles, 

204 

Loaf, 

176 

Lemon, 

197 

Molasses  Cup, 

202 

Molasses,  Hard  times 

202 

Mary's  Tea, 

203 

Macaroons, 

210 

New  Year's  Hickory-nut, 

196 

New  Years, 

197 

392 


INDEX, 


Page. 

New  Year's  Biscuit,  208 

Oi-ange  Biscuit,  209 

Pound,  192 

Pork,  Fruit  194 

Plum,  19() 

Picnic,  198 

*'  Portage  Falls,"  198 

Poverty,  198 

Portugal,  200 

Party  Puffs,  205 

Rock,  204 

Rice  Cheese  Cakes,  206 

Sponge,  192 

Sponge,  Almond  192 

Sponge,  Rice  flour,  193 

Sponge,  Mrs.  Vs.  193 

Snow,  198 

Small  Seed,  199 

South  Carolina,  200 

Society,  203 

Sally  Lunn,  203 

Shrewsbury,  204 

Tea  dish,  a  nice  193 

Tea,  Mary's  203 

Warsaw  White,  200 

Wonders,  204 

PRESERVED    FRUITS   AND 
SWEETMEATS. 

Apple  Sweetmeats,  220 
Apple  Preserve,  220 
Apple  Butter,  220 
Apples,  to  Prevent  Waste  in  221 
Artichokes,  Preserved,  222 
Blackberries,  212 
Brandy  Gages,  216 
Canning  Fruit,  212 
Currant  and  Raspberry  Sweet- 
meat, 214 
Cherry  Jam,  214 
Currant  Black,  Jam  215 
Cherries,  Preserved  215 
ChdVries,  Pickled  215 
Crab  apples,  Preserved  216 
Currants,  Preserved  217 
Citron,  Preserved  219 
Cucumbers,  Preserved  221 
Candied  Orange  Peel  Rings       222 


P-age 

Citron  Preparing,  for  Cake  223 

Figs,  Green  Preserved  216 

Green  Grape  Jam,  214 

Green  Figs  Preserved,  216 

Jam,  Strawberry  212 

Jam,  Raspberry  213 

Jam,  Cherry  214 

Jam,  Green  Grape  214 

Jam,  Plum  214 

Jam,  Pineapple  214 

Jam,  Black  Currant  215 

Oranges,  Preserved  217 

Plum  Jam,  214 

Pineapple  Jam,  214 

Pineapple  Marmalade,  215 

Pineapples  Preserved,  216 

Plums  or  Damsons  Preserved  217 

Pickling  Pears  and  Peaches,  218 

Pickling  Damson  Plums,  218 

Peaches  Dried  with  Sugar,  218 
Plums  and  Small  Fruits  Dried,  219 

Pippins,  Preserved  221 

Pumpkin,  Fried  223 

Quinces,  Preserved  215 

Raspberry  Jam,  213 

Raspberries,  Preserved  213 

Rhubarb,  Preserved  217 

Strawberry  Jam,  212 

Strawberries  in  Cans,  213 

Strawberries,  Dried  213 

Tomato  Figs,  222 

Tomato  Sweetmeats,  223 

Vegetable  Marrow,  Preserved  221 


JELLIES. 


Apple, 

Apple,  Crab 

Blackberry, 

Crab  Apple, 

Cider, 

Currant, 

Cranberry, 

Calf's  feet. 

Gelatine, 

Grape, 

Medlar, 

Quince, 

Rice, 


224 
225 
226 
225 
225 
225 
226 
226 
226 
227 
227 
225 
22e 


INDEX. 

393 

Page. 

Page, 

Sago, 

227 

Rusks, 

286 

Tapioca, 

22ti 

Rolls,  French 

240 

Wine,  Mrs.  Webster's 

225 

Rice  Biscuit, 

236 

Wine, 

226 

Rye  Drop  Cakes, 

236 

Kice  Putfs, 

238 

FRESH   FRUITS. 

Rice  Flour  Puffs, 

238 

Rice  Flour  Cake, 

23.8 

Blackberries, 

229 

Rolls,  Flour  and  Potato 

239 

Cherries, 

230 

Rice  Waffles, 

239 

Currants, 

229 

Shortcalie, 

235 

Currants  and  Huckleberries, 

230 

Soda  Biscuit, 

240 

Currants  and  Raspberries, 

230 

Soft  Waffles, 

241 

Huckleberries, 

230 

Toast,  Dry 

242 

Strawberries, 

229 

Toast,  Dip 

242 

Toast,  Cream 

242 

YEAST   BREAD,    BISCUIT, 

&c. 

Yeast, 

Yeast,  Connecticut 

231 
231 

Bread, 

232 

Yeast,  Excellent 

281 

Bread,  General  Rules, 

233 

Yeast,  Potato 

231 

Bread,  Rye  and  Indian 

233 

Yeast  Cakes, 

232 

Bread,  Graham 
Bread,  Sweet  Brown 

234 
234 

GRIDDLE    CAKES  AND    FARI- 

Bread, Rice  Flour 

234 

NACEOUS    DISHES. 

Bread,  Moist  Rice 

235 

Buckwheat, 

242 

Bread,  Apple 

235 

Bread, 

243 

Bread,  Pulled 

235 

Bannock,  Poughkeepsie  Seer' 

i  245 

Bread,  Pieces  of 

235 

Common, 

242 

Baked  Batter, 

236 

Cream, 

243 

Butter  Cakes  for  Tea, 

240 

Economical, 

244 

Breakfast  Cakes,  English 

240 

Frumety,  English 

247 

Biscuit,  Graham 

240 

Flannel, 

238 

Breakfast  Cakes,  Fanny's 

236 

Gruel,  Indian  Meal 

246 

Biscuit, 

240 

Hominy  and  Farina, 

245 

Biscuit,  Mrs.  D's  Tea 

237 

Hominy  Cakes, 

246 

Breakfjist  Johnny  Cake, 

237 

Hasty  Pudding, 

246 

Breakfast  Corncake, 

237 

Hulled  Corn, 

247 

Buttermilk  Breakfist  Cakes, 

238 

Porridge,  Milk 

246 

Buns,  Hot  Cross,  Good  Friday 

241 

Rice, 

248 

Corn  Cream  ("ake. 

237 

Rice  Flour, 

245 

Corn  Bread, 

237 

Rye  Meal  Mush, 

246 

Corn  Meal  Waffles, 

238 

Shrove  Tuesday, 

243 

Crumpets,  Laight  St. 

239 

Soda, 

243 

Green  Corn  Cakes, 

239 

Scotch, 

245 

Hoe  Cakes, 

236 

Samp, 
Tomato, 

246 

Johnny  Cake,  Breakfast 

237 

245 

Johnny  Cake,  Western 
Muffins, 

238 
241 

BREAKFAST. 

Oatcakes, 

239 

Bills  of  Fare  for  Breakfast 

250 

394 


TEA,  COFFEE,  ETC. 

Coffee, 

Cream  Coffee, 

Cold  Coffee, 

Chocolate,  American 

Chocolate,  French 

Cocoa, 

Dnner  Coffee, 

Tea, 

Tea,  to  make 

DINNER. 

Plain  Bills  of  Fare  for  Dinner 
all  the  year  round, 

January, 

February, 

March, 

April, 

May, 

June, 

July, 

August, 

September, 

October, 

November, 

December, 

Birthday  Dinner, 

Thanksgiving  Dinner, 

Christmas  Dinner, 

WINES  AND  DRINKS. 

Black  Currant, 
Blackberry, 
Blackberry  Brandy, 
Berry  Drink, 
Currant, 
Currant    Black 
Cherry  Brandy, 
Corn  Drink,  Yankee 
Claret  Punch, 
Cuol  Cup, 

Christmas  Egg  nog, 
Cold  Punch, 
Elder, 


INDEX. 

Page. 

rage. 

Elder  Flower, 

268 

Egg  Nog, 

278 

I'gg  Nog,  Christmas 

275 

253 

Grape, 

267 

253 

Grape  Syrup, 

266 

254 

Gooseberry, 

268 

254 

Green  Gooseberry, 

269 

254 

Ginger, 

269 

254 

Ginger  Beer, 

270 

253 

Ginger  i^eer.  Cask 

270 

254 

Ginger  Pop, 

272 

265 

Hop  Beer, 

270 

Imperial, 

272 

Lemonade,  Milk 

273 

Lemonade  Portable, 

273 

Mead, 

271 

256 

Milk  Lemonade, 

278 

May  Drink, 

274 

25G 

257 
257 
258 
259 
259 
260 
260 
261 
262 
263 
2(')4 

Milk  Punch, 

275 

Oxford  Swig, 

274 

Portable,  Lemonade 

273 

Quick  Beer, 

271 

Quick  Drink, 

272 

Rhubarb, 

268 

Raspberry  Syrup, 

270 

Spruce  Beer, 
Shrub, 

271 
271 

Sherry  Cobbler,  4th  .July 

273 

Staten  Island  Lemonade, 

278 

Sack  Posset, 

275 

262 

263 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

264 

Apples,  to  keep 

227 

Butter  Cooler, 

281 

Bread,  Homemade 

283 

Bed  Bugs, 

2.)3 

266 

Bouquet,  to  Preserve 

208 

268 

Cabbages,  to  Keep 

278 

269 

Cornstarch  instead  of  Eggs, 

280 

'y.1'1 

Cement,  Diamond 

281 

266 

Cochineal, 

282 

262 

Cornmeal,  Improving 

282 

'269 

Cement  for  Metal  and  Glass, 

284 

272 

Cracks  in  Stoves, 

284 

274 

Creaking  Hinges, 

285 

274 

Cement,  Water  and  Fire  Prooj 

285 

275 

Chimney,  Fire  in 

286 

275 

Carpet,  Soiled 

287 

267 

Crape,  to  Stiffen 

288 

Crape,  Water  Spots  in  Black 

Cockroaches, 

Crickets, 

Damp  Woolen  Clothing, 

Diamond  Cement, 

Drippings,  to  clarify 

Eggs,  Snow  Substitute  for 

Eggs,  Corn  Starch  instead  of 

Egg  paper, 

Easter  Eggs, 

Frozen   Potatv.es, 

Fruit  Stains,  to  Wash  From 

Hands 
Fruit  Sinking, 
Flatirons,  Rust  on 
Flatirons,  Rough 
Fire  in  Chimney, 
Furniture, 
Floors,  Scouring 
Grapes,   Keeping 
Grease,  to  Remove 
Grease  Spots, 
Grease   on  a  leather  covered 

Book, 
Hair,  to  Strengthen 
Hens,  to  make  lay 
Hatching, 

Handles,  Knife  to  Fasten 
Ivory  Handles, 
Ice  on  Windows, 
Iron  Stain, 
Ink  Spots  on  Linen, 
Ink  on  Books, 
Ink,  Marking 
Ink,  Green,   Blue,   Gold  and 

Silver 
Kitchen  Odors, 
Kid  Gloves,  to  Clean 
Lemons,  to  Keep 
Lobster's  Eggs, 
Linen,  To  take  Ink  out  of 
Linen.  Tu  Restore  Stained 
Mustard, 

Mushrooms,  To  Preserve 
^leat,  Game,  &;c.,  To  keep  in 

Hot  Weather 
Meat,  To  Remove  Taint  from 
Molasses,  To  ('hirify 
Mai-ble,  To  Clean 


INDEX. 

395 

rage. 

ra^ft. 

288 

Marks  on  Table, 

28tj 

21)2 

Mahogony,  To  give  fine  Color 

287 

21)3 

Mildew,  to  take  out 

288 

280 

Muslins,  Washing 

290 

281 

Marking  Ink, 

291 

283 

Moths, 

292 

280 

Nosegays, 

293 

280 

Peas,  To  keep  for  Winter  Use 

277 

280 

Parsley,  to  Keep 

279 

294 

Potatoes,  Frozen 

280 

280 

Polishing  Paste, 

285 

Paste,  Water  Proof 

286 

280 

Paint,  To  clean 

287 

282 

Paint,  Cheap 

287 

284 

Papered  Walls, 

287 

284 

Paint  Spots  on  Cloth,  Silk,  &c. 

289 

286 

Perfume,  Home  made 

293 

287 

Pot  Pourri, 

294 

287 

Rust  on  Knives, 

284 

277 

Rough  Flatirons, 

284 

286 

Rust,  Varnish  to  Prevent 

285 

291 

Rays  of  Sun, 

286 

Ribbons,  To  Iron 

228 

291 

Rats  and  Mice, 

292 

281 

Roses,  Tincture  of 

294 

282 

Snow  Substitute  for  Eggs, 

280 

283 

Soft  Soap, 

285 

284 

Silk,  To  Renovate  Black 

288 

283 

Silk,  To  Clean 

290 

285 

Spermaceti  Spots, 

291 

290 

To  keep  Grapes, 

277 

289 

To  keep  Apples, 

277 

291 

To  keep  Pears, 

277 

291 

To  keep  Cabbages, 

278 

To  keep  Mustard, 

278 

291 

To  keep  Lemons, 

279 

282 

To  keep  Parsley, 

279 

290 

To  preserve  Mushrooms, 

279 

279 

To   keep  Meat,  Game,  &c.  in 

281 

Hot  Weather, 

279 

289 

To  remove  taint  from  Meat, 

279 

289 

Turnips,  Size  of 

280 

278 

To    Wash  Fruit  Stains   from 

279 

Hands, 

280 

To  Make  Hens  lay  in  Winter, 

282 

279 

To  fatten  Turkeys, 

282 

279 

To  Clarify  Drippings, 

288 

293 

To  Clarify  Molasses, 

2«3 

286 

To  fasten  Knife  Handles. 

284 

396 


INDEX. 


Page. 
To  take  off  rust  from  Flatirons,  284 
To  prevent  Lamp    Chimneys 

Breakinor,  285 

To  drive  Nails,  286 

To  Remove  Grease,  280 

To  CK^an  Marble,  286 

Table,  Marks  on  286 

To  give  fine  color  to  Mahogany,  287 
To  Clean  Paint,  287 

To  Scour  Floors,  287 

To  Iron  Ribbons,  288 

To  Stiffen  Crape,  288 

To  remove  broken  Spots  from 

Velvet  288 

To  Clean  Black  Lace  Veils,  288 
To  Renovate  Black  Silk,  288 

To  take  out  Mildew,  288 

To  take  Ink  out  of  Linen,  289 

To  wash  print  or  lawn  Dresses,  289 
To  wash  Colored  Muslins,  290 

To  restore  Stained  Linen,  289 

To  Clean  Silk,  290 

To  clean  Kid  Gloves,  290 

To  remove  Spermaceti  Spots,  191 
To  Preserve  Bouquets,  293 

Tincture  of  Roses,  294 

Vermin,  281 

Voice,  to  Clear  and  Strengthen  281 
Varnish  to  prevent  Rust,  288 

Velvet,  to  remove  broken  spots  288 
Veils,  To  Clean  285 

Woolen  Clothing,  Damp  280 

Windows,  Ice  on  285 

Water  and  Fire  Proof  Cement,  285 
Water  Proof  Paste,  286 

Water  Spots  in  Black  Crape,     288 

FOOD    FOR    INVALIDS. 

Apple  water,  299 

Breakfast,  a  sick  208 

Beef  Tea,  298 

Broiled  Tenderloin,  301 

Dinner,  298 

Eggs,  soft  boiled,  298 

OrueU  296 

Jelly,  Calf's  foot  297 

Lemonade,  299 

Milk  and  Eggs,  801 


Paga 

Milk  thickened,  800 

Oyster  Soup,  301 

Panada,  297 

Pudding,  Invalid  298 

Pie,  Apple  299 

Prunes,  stewed  299 

Pudding,  Tapioca  cup  300 

Roast  Apples,  299 

Soup,  Oyster  301 

Toast,  Soft  297 

Toast,  Egg  297 

Tea,  a  sick  298 

Toast,  Dry  800 

Tapioca  Cup  pudding,  800 

Toast,  Milk  300 


FOOD    FOR   INFANTS 

AND 

CHILDREN. 

Bread  and  milk. 

805 

Baby  Pudding, 

804 

Brown  Mush  for  supper, 

895 

Cow's  milk, 

804 

Children's  Pie, 

805 

Cranberries, 

805 

English  Pap, 

803 

Essentials, 

804 

Infxnt's  Broth, 

804 

Pudding,  Baby 

804 

Pie,  Children's 

805 

Starchy  Food, 

803 

Young  Children,  Food  for 

805 

LADIES   LUNCHES. 
Bill  of  Fare,  307 

NEW   year's   TABLE,  EVE- 
NING   REFRBSHMENTg, 
PARTIES,    ETC. 

New  Year's  Table,  309 

A  Family  Dinner  Party,  310 

A  small  Supper  Party,  810 

Refreshments,  811 

A  Children's  Party,  311 

A  Christmas  Party,  812 


INDEX. 


397 


WASHING  DAT. 


Page. 


Wasliing  Day,  313 

Blonde  Lace,  to  wash  315 

Colored  Starch,  315 

Laces  and  Needlework,  314 
Muslin,     Lawn,     or     Print 

Dresses,  315 

Saving"  Soap,  316 

Shirts,  how  to  starch  316 

Starch,  (colored  315 

Table-Cloths,  Napkins,  etc.,  314 

White  Flannels,  314 
Zephyr  Goods   and  Colored 

Flannels,  314 


THE  DAIRY. 

Cows,  317 

Milk-Room,  317 

Making  Butter,  317 


JEWISH  RECEIPTS. 

Crackers,  Sweet  323 

Chicken,  Brown  Fricassee  319 

Cake,  Cup  322 

Cucumbers,  Pickled  325 

Dumplinor,  Lemon  824 

Fish,  White  stewed  319 

Fritters,  Purim  820 

Fish,  Codfish  Fritters  820 

Meringues,  321 

Marmalade,  .  323 

Orgeat,  328 

Pudding,  a  Good  320 

Pudding,  Lemon  821 

Pudding,  Rich  Lemon  821 

Pudding,  Apple  821 

Pudding,  Bread  and  Butter  822 

Pudding,  Sally  Lunn  822 

Pudding,  Light  324 

Pudding,  Cocoanut  828 

Pudding,  Almond  824 

Sandwiches,  Albert  821 

Tomatoes  for  Winter  Use,  324 


Paga 
FAVORITE  DISHES  OF  DIS 
TINGUISHED  PERSONS. 

Turtle  Bean  Soup — Henry 
Ward  Beech er's  favorite    327 

Biscuits,  Henry  Ward  Beech- 
er's  328 

Plum  Pudding,  Alice  Cary's  828 

Pudding,  Herodotus'  829 

Apple-Dumpling,  Phoebe 
Cary's  boiled  329 

Compote  of  Apples,  Phoebe 
Cary's  329 

Snow  Balls,  Phoebe  Cary's     330 

Tenderloin  of  Beef  garnished 
with  Mushrooms,  Anna 
Dickinson's  880 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding,  Su- 
san B.  Anthony's  330 

Veal  Cutlets  in  Papillottes, 
(curl  -  papers,)  Olive  Lo- 
gan's 331 


SOROSIS  RECEIPTS. 


Biscuit,  Very  Nice 

333 

Muffins,  Indian 

382 

Corn  Cake, 

382 

Biscuit,  Drop 

333 

Muffins,  Baked 

383 

Crumpets, 

333 

Cake,  Rye  Drop 

383 

Sally  Lunn, 

333 

PUDDINGS. 

Pudding,  Marlborough  383 
Pudding,  Marrow  384 
Pudding,  Eve's  384 
Pudding,  Flour  884 
Pudding,  Cottage  334 
Cake,  Agnes  Noble's  Pre- 
mium Sponge  334 
Cake.  Jelly  335 
Cake,  Lemon  335 
Soup,  Mock  Turtle  335 


3^8 


INPEX. 


Page. 
Force-meat  Balls  for  Turtle, 
M(x;k     Turtle,     or     Made 
Dishes,  337 

Egg-balls.  337 

Beio-net  Souffle,  337 

Mayonnaise  Sauce  for  Chick- 
en or  Lobster  Salad — a  la 
Delmonico,  338 

Sauce,  Spanish  338 

Sauce,  Velvet  ^         338 

Lobster — a  la  Cordelaise,       338 
Aubergine  Farcis — Egg-Plant 

stuffed,  ^  339 

Soup  a  ia  Conde,  339 

Potato  Boulettes — a  la  Del- 
monico, 339 
Potato    Ribbons — a   la   Del- 
monico, 340 
Tea,                                            340 
Coffee,  340 
Muffins,  341 
Salad  Dressing,  341 
Mince  Pies,  341 
Rice  Pudding, A.  T.  Stewart's  341 
Chicken  Fricassee,  A.  T.  Stew- 
art's                                     342 
Apple  Pudding,  Mrs.  A.   T. 

Stewart's  342 

Huckleberry  Pudding,  a  new  342 
Indian  Huckleberry  Pudding, 

Mme.  Demorest's  favorite  343 
Fruit  Lunch,  Mr.  Demorest's 

favorite  343 

Lemonade,  Angle's  343 


GENUINE  RECEIPTS  FROM 
THE  ONEIDA  COMMUNITY. 

(Contributed  by  a  Member.) 

Jelly,  Currant  344 

Jelly,  Raspberry  344 

Pickling,  344 
Pine-apj.<le,  for  Preserving     345 

(.'berries,  Sweet  345 

Raspberries,  345 

Plums,  345 


Peaches,  345 

Tomatoes,  (canned  345 

Cooking   Tomatoes,  another 

Receipt  tor  34b 

Shortcake,  Strawberry  346 

Bread,  340 


RICHFIELD     SPRINGS     RE- 
CEIPTS. 

Meringue,  Lemon  Pudding  347 
Omelet,  347 

Cream  Pie,  347 

Corn  Bread,  34S 

Buttermilk     Biscuit,     Aunt 

Fanny's  348 

Yule  Cake,  English  348 

Strawberries  whole — a    fine 

Receipt,  348 

Hunting  Beef,  Leicestershire  348 
Biscuits,  Mother's  349 


A    STRONG-MINDED    WO- 
MAN'S RECEIPTS. 


Syllabub,  Wliipped 

350 

Ice  Currants, 

350 

Cream,  Lemon 

350 

Cream,  Snow 

350 

Fritters,  Spanish 

351 

Sauce,  Cranberry 

351 

Potato  Balls, 

351 

Corn  Bread,  without  Milk.     351 
Gingerbread,    Pound.     (Ex- 
cellent.) 352 
Pudding,     Almond.       (Very 

rich.)  352 

Pudding,  Sago  352 

Indian-Meal  Drops,  852 

Ginger-nuts,  352 

Salve,  Invaluable  352 

Sponge  Cake,  Cream  353 

Currants,  Spiced  .    353 

Milk  Gruel,  3^^ 


INDEX. 


399 


Page. 
Dried  Fruit,  to  keep  Worms 

from  353 

Rolls,  French  353 

Carrot  Pie,  354 

A  Hint  to  Housekeepers,        354 
Pails,  painted  354 

Cream  C'akes — a  Confection- 
er's Receipt,  354 
Gingerbread,  Sugar  354 
Pudding,  Troy  355 
Cream,  Velvet  355 
Soup,  German                         356 


Page. 

Raised  Leicestersliire  Pork- 
pie,  Francatelli's  Receipt 
for  355 

Wine  from  Oranges,  350 

Palm  Wine,  856 

Mock  Turkey,  357 

Peach  Pie,  357 

Claret  Punch,  357 

Meats  and  their  Accompani- 
ments, 358 
Thanksgiving  Turkey,  Mrs. 
Partington's                        358 


CARVING. 


FISH. 
Carving,  general  directions,    360 
Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders,      360 

Eel,  3G1 

Halibut,  -  361 

Lobster,  361 

Salmon,  361 

Sole,  361 

MEATS. 

Beef,  Aitchbone,  361 

Beef,  Brisket,  362 

Beof,  Ribs,  362 

Beef,  Round,  363 

Beef,  Sirloin,  362 

Beef  Tongue,  363 

Calf's  Head,  369 

Ham,  367 

Lamb,  Fore-quarter,  366 

Lamb,  Leg,  366 

Lamb,  Loin,  366 

Lamb,  Saddle,  366 

Lamb,  Stioulder,  363 

Leg  of  Pork,  368 

liiutton,  Haunch,  364 

Mutton,  Leg,  364 

MuttonrLoin,  364 

Mutton,  Saddle,  365 

Mutton,  Shoulder,  865 

Sucking  Pig,  367 


Veal,  Breast, 

368 

Veal,  Fillet, 

369 

Vpal,  Knuckle, 

359 

Veal,  Loin, 

370 

POULTRY. 

Boiled  Fowl, 

371 

Rabbits, 

375 

Roast  Duck, 

370 

Roast  Fowl, 

873 

Roast  Goose, 

373 

Roiist  Turkey, 

375 

Pigeon, 

GAME.. 

375 

Haunch  of  Venison, 

378 

Landrail, 

379 

Ortolans, 

379 

Partridges, 

377 

Pheasant, 

378 

Plovers, 

379 

Prairie  Hen, 

378 

Ptarmigan, 

379 

Quails, 

379 

Roast  Hare, 

376 

Snipe, 

378 

Teal, 

380 

Wild  Duck, 

376 

Widgeon, 

380 

Woodcock, 

379 

J 


(Oct.,  1885,  20,000) 

BOSTON  PUBLIC    LIBRARY. 


ii"'^"^ime,  and  obtained  only  by  card ; 

^^  .    Bven  days  in.  the  case  of  fiction   and 

juvenile  boolcs'^^ljfished  within  one  year,)  without  fine;  not 
to  be  renewed;  to  be  reclaimed  by  messenger  after  21  days, 
who  will  collect  20  cents  besides  fine  of  2  cents  a  day,  includ- 
ing Sundays  and  holidays ;  not  -tq  be  lent  out  of  the  borrower's 
household,  and  not  to  be  transferred;  to  be  returned  ait  this  Hall. 
Borrowers  finding  this  book  liiutilated  or  unwarrantably 
defaced,  are  expected  to  report  it;  arid.also  any  undue  delay 
in  the  delivery  of  books. 

*:^*No  claim  can  be  established  because  of   the  failure  of   any 
notice,  to  or  from  the  Library,  through  the  mail. 


The  recopcl  below  must  not  be  made  op  altered  by  borrower. 


r 


C/      ^'  •'^^ 


y. 


R.  SEP  15  .. 

3       ■' 


^•i?f4// 


v„ 


