CT 


jy  0  o  -  o  „  <^ 


>  v^fV 


- 


VI 

\    *  - 

v^*'-/  v*^v  v^fv  % 

[•*         °<y^s&*\  jf\  °WwS 


o  0  "  °  -» 


THE 


KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


COLLECTION  OF  EECIPES 


FOB 


COOKING. 


by  y 
ZLvCIRS-  PETER  WHITE. 


0 


OCT  6  1885  : 

°^  WASHING^ 


Chicago  and  New  Yoek  : 
BELFORD, CLARKE  &  CO, 
1885, 


COPYItlGIIT, 

MRS.  PETER  A.  WHITE. 

1885. 


Ponohue  &  Henneberry,  Printers  and  Binders,  Chicago, 


PREFACE. 


~|  TAVINGr  always  regarded  a  cookery  book  as  a  book  for 
— the  kitchen,  I  have,  in  order  to  carry  out  my  idea, 
not  only  been  explicit  in  giving  proportions,  but  have 
endeavored  to  express  myself  so  simply  that  any  cook  who 
can  read  can  take  this  book  and  be  her  own  teacher. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  W. 


CONTENTS. 


Page 

Beef  and  Entrees   94 

Bread   13 

Breakfast   11 

Cakes   222 

Creams,  Ices,  etc   207 

Fish   75 

Fowls  and  Game   125 

Food  in  Season   295 

Household  Notes   306 

Meat  for  Breakfast   40 

Menus  for  the  Year   278 

Pickles  and  Catsups  /   260 

Preserves,  Syrups,  Cordials  and  Candies   245 

Puddings  and  Pies   172 

Salads     138 

Sauces  for  Meats   118 

Sauces  for  Puddings   204 

Soups   50 

Vegetables   142 


5 


BREAKFAST 


COFFEE. 

Some  think  that  mixing  coffee  improves  it.  To  those 
who  think  so,  I  would  suggest  one  third  Mocha  and  two 
thirds  Java.  The  coffee  must  be  carefully  roasted.  A 
few  grains  roasted  too  much  will  make  the  coffee  taste 
bitter;  and  if  not  enough  roasted,  will  give  the  whole  a 
very  raw  taste.  I  think  the  old  idea  of  roasting  coffee 
every  day  is  necessary  to  have  it  perfect,  has  in  a  great 
measure  been  given  up.  Twice  a  week,  or  even  once,  and 
it  will  be  just  as  good,  if  you  keep  it  air  tight.  To  make 
it,  allow  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  to  every  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  First,  scald  out  the  coffepot;  put  in  the  coffee, 
with  white  of  the  egg;  beat  well;  then  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water,  so  as  to  have  the  coffee  thoroughly  moistened; 
pour  on  the  boiling  water;  let  it  boil  twelve  minutes,  stir- 
ring the  grounds  down  once  when  it  boils  up  the  first 
time.  Pour  out  a  cupful  to  see  if  clear,  then  pour  it  back; 
throw  in  half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water;  let  it  stand  five 
minutes,  and  pour  off  the  grounds  immediately.  If  for 
strong  after-dinner  coffee,  put  two  tablespoonfuls  and  a 
half  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

TEA. 

Three  things  are  essential  in  order  to  have  good  tea. 
First,  the  water  must  be  boiling  when  it  is  poured  on  the 
leaves;  second,  the  water  must  be  boiled  for  the  "purpose; 

U 


12 


THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


third,  the  tea  must  be  freshly  drawn.  For  black  tea,  one 
teaspoonful  for  each  person  is  a  fair  allowance;  to  that, 
allow  a  large  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  and  after  pouring 
on  the  number  of  cupfuls  required,  allow  an  extra  cup,  and 
an  extra  teaspoonful  of  tea.  Oolong  tea  does  not  require 
so  long  to  draw  as  the  Souchong  tea — say  five  minutes  for 
the  former  and  ten  for  the  latter.  For  green  tea,  allow 
one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  to  each  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  don't  let  it  stand  over  three  minutes.  Always  scald 
out  the  pot,  which  should  be  of  earthen-ware.  First,  pour 
on  one  half  of  the  water,  and  after  allowing  the  time 
required  for  drawing  the  different  teas,  pour  on  the  other 
half  of  the  water. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Five  squares  of  chocolate, 
One  pint  of  new  milk, 
One  pint  of  rich  cream. 

Break  the  chocolate  into  very  small  pieces;  pour  on  it 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  half 
an  hour;  then  mash  perfectly  smooth;  boil  the  milk  and 
cream,  and  add  by  degrees  to  the  chocolate;  boil  hard  for 
ten  minutes,  beating  well,  with  an  egg-beater,  until  it 
becomes  light  and  frothy.  It  is  better  to  serve  it  immedi- 
ately, but  if  it  has  to  stand,  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  hot 
water  underneath,  the  object  being  to  keep  it  hot,  but  not 
to  allow  it  to  cook  any  more.  If  Maillard's  chocolate  is 
used,  do  not  add  anything  to  it;  but  if  it  should  be 
Baker's  chocolate,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  If 
cream  should  not  be  convenient,  all  new  milk  will  answer. 
Cocoa  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  only  flavor  and 
sweeten. 


BREADS,  ETC 


THE  FIRST  YEAST.' 

Two  yeast  cakes, 

Four  good-sized  potatoes, 

One  tablespoonful  of  hops, 

Four  tablespoon  fuls  of  flour, 

Two  {ablespoonf  uls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  potatoes  on,  without  peeling,  in  a  quart  of 
water,  and  when  almost  done,  add  the  hops;  when  the 
potatoes  are  done,  peel  them  and  mash  through  a  colan- 
der; then  strain  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  and  while 
boiling  hot,  mix  in  the  potatoes,  salt  and  the  two  yeast 
cakes,  which  have  been  previously  soaked  for  an  hour  in  a 
teacupful  of  warm  milk. 

THE  SECOND  YEAST. 

Four  peeled  potatoes, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Let  the  first  yeast  stand  all  day;  at  night,  boil  the  four 
potatoes  until  soft;  mash  them  through  a  colander,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  the 
flour,  sugar  and  salt;  when  cold,  mix  it  with  the  first  yeast, 
let  it  stand  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  make  fresh  every  two 
weeks. 

13 


14 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  MAKE  THE  BREAD. 

One  teacupful  of  yeast, 

One  quart  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  pint  of  water. 

Put  the  yeast,  lard,  salt  and  sugar  in  the  flour,  then 
the  water.  Work  until  it  blisters,  which  will  take  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Put  a  little  lard  on  top,  and 
put  into  a  wooden  bowl.  Let  it  rise  from  five  to  six  hours, 
then  make  out  into  rolls.  Let  them  rise  for  about  an 
hour  and  a  half,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  for  loaves, 
they  will  require  two  hours  for  the  second  rising,  and  a 
more  moderate  oven  for  baking. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Six  large  potatoes, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  with 
water  enough  to  cover  them  well.  Boil  until  perfectly 
soft,  take  them  out,  leaving  the  water  on  the  fire.  Mash 
them  smooth  with  the  flour  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  by  degrees 
a  quart  of  the  water.  Let  this  boil  and  strain  through  a 
colander.  When  luke  warm,  stir  in  a  cake  of  Fleisch- 
man's  yeast,  having  previously  dissolved  it  in  a  little 
water.  Let  it  rise,  and  when  light,  put  it  in  the  ice-chest 
or  a  cool  place.  Fresh  yeast  can  be  made  by  using  a  tea- 
cupful  of  this  instead  of  Fleischman's — or  a  teacupful  of 
brewer's  yeast.  Yeast  should  be  made  twice  a  week  in  the 
summer. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


15 


POTATO  ROLLS. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

One  teacupful  of  yeast, 

One  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 

Two  boiled  potatoes, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  them  smoothly  with 
the  flour,  adding  enough  of  the  water  the  potatoes  were 
boiled  in  to  make  the  consistency  of  thin  mush.  Then 
pour  in  the  melted  butter,  and  when  cold,  add  the  yeast. 
Put  it  away  until  morning  in  ra  moderately  warm  place. 
This  is  the  sponge,  and  will  be  risen  by  daylight.  Work 
into  this  sponge  a  quart  of  flour,  shape  as  rolls,  and  put 
away  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If 
in  the  winter,  the  kitchen  will  do  to  have  them  in;  if  in 
the  summer,  put  them  where  there  has  been  no  fire.  The 
second  rising  will  require  a  warmer  place  than  the  first 
rising. 

POTATO  BISCUIT. 

Three  pints  and  a  half  of  flour, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  baker's  yeast, 
One  pint  of  warm  sweet  milk, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Two  potatoes,  boiled, 
Two  eggs. 

Sift  the  flour  twice;  mix  through  it  the  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  put  in  the  yeast  and 
warm  milk.  Let  this  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
mash  the  potatoes  and  mix  in  the  yeast  and  milk  with  the 
butter  and  well  beaten  eggs.  Put  it  before  the  fire  for  an 
hour  and  a  half;  then  mix  all  together  and  let  it  rise  until 
light,  then  take  a  pint  of  flour  for  shaping.    Cut  off  small 


16 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


pieces  and  shape  lightly  into  cakes,  as  they  are  better  not 
rolled.  Let  them  rise  again  in  the  pan,  and  when  they  be- 
gin to  crack  open  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  minutes. 

LOAF  BREAD  WITHOUT  LARD. 

Two  quarts  of  flour, 
One  pint  of  potato  yeast, 
One  pint  of  cold  water, 
A  dessertspoonful  of  sugar, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  bowl  and  mix  in  the  water,  sugar, 
yeast  and  salt.  Work  for  fifteen  minutes,  make  into  loaves, 
put  them  in  greased  pans  and  let  them  rise  until  light. 
Bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  It  will 
take  nearly  two  hours  after  the  working  before  the  loaves 
will  be  ready  for  baking. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Two  quarts  of  brown  flour, 
One  teacupful  of  fresh  yeast, 
One  teacupful  of  molasses, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  lard, 
One  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  add  the 
molasses,  salt  and  yeast.  Work  well  and  set  it  to  rise.  Af- 
ter it  has  risen  make  into  loaves;  let  it  rise  for  the  second 
time;  grease  it  on  top  with  a  little  lard  to  prevent  it  from 
cracking.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LIGHT  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour, 

Three  pints  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  potato  yeast, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


17 


Put  the  flour  in  a  bowl  and  make  a  hole  in  the  center 
of  it.  Warm  the  milk,  pour  in  it  the  butter,  melted,  salt 
and  sugar,  lastly  the  yeast.  Set  this  to  rise  over  night. 
Early  in  the  morning  knead  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
When  it  blisters,  roll,  cut  and  put  into  pans,  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  again,  which  will  take  about  an  hour 
and  a  half,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  wanted  for 
supper  set  them  to  rise  early  in  the  morning. 

ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  yeast, 

One  pint  of  cold  water, 

A  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

A  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  flour,  water,  sugar  and  melted  lard  together, 
then  add  the  yeast  and  salt.  Work  for  fifteen  minutes 
and  let  it  rise  until  light,  then  shape  into  rolls  and  let 
them  rise  again  until  light,  then  bake  in  a  well  heated 
oven  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  It  takes  about  two 
hours  after  the  last  rising  before  the  rolls  will  be  ready  to 
bake. 

BREAD  OR  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  potato  yeast, 

One  pint  of  cold  water, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

One  desertspoonful  of  white  sugar, 

A  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  work  well  for 
fifteen  minutes.    Set  it  aside  to  rise.    If  in  the  summer, 
put  in  a  cool  place,  if  in  the  winter,  put  in  a  warm  place. 
When  light,  work  it  for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Don't 
2 


18 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


make  into  loaves  or  rolls,,  until  two  hours  and  a  half  before 
baking  in  the  winter,  and  two  hours  in  the  summer. 
This  will  allow  half  an  hour  for  baking  the  rolls,  and  an 
hour  for  the  loaves.  Have  a  quick  oven  for  the  rolls,  and 
a  more  moderate  one  for  the  loaves. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

One  pint  of  bread  dough, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar. 

Put  into  the  dough  the  butter  and  the  sugar;  work 
for  about  five  minutes,  then  put  it  in  a  cool  place  until  an 
hour  before  the  rolls  are  to  be  baked.  Roll,  cut,  butter 
one-half  of  each,  and  turn  over  the  other  half.  Put  in 
tins  to  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
One  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
One  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

Mix  the  salt  and  meal,  pour  on  the  boiling  milk,  and 
stir  until  it  thickens.  Put  it  on  the  table  about  nine  o'clock 
at  night  to  rise.  In  the  morning  add  hot  water  enough 
to  warm  it,  then  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  it  quite 
thick,  adding  the  sugar  and  melted  lard.  Make  into 
loaves,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light, 
bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

POTATO  CAKES  WITH  BAKING  POWDER. 

Three  pints  of  flour, 

One  cooking- spoonful  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed, 
Three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
Six  mashed  potatoes, 
A  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


19 


Sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  and  add  the  salt. 
Bub  the  butter  through  the  flour  with  the  hands,  then  the 
mashed  potatoes;  and  put  in  milk  enough  to  make  it  mix 
well,  but  don't  let  it  be  too  soft.  "Roll,  cut,  and  bake 
quickly.  Split,  and  butter  while  hot.  These  are  very 
nice  for  breakfast. 

LIGHT  BISCUITS. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  yeast, 

Three  well-mashed  potatoes, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter,  put  in  flour  enough  for  a 
soft  sponge,  then  put  in  the  yeast  and  salt.  Let  it  rise, 
work  in  the  potatoes,  an'd  add  more  flour,  until  a  nice 
dough  is  made,  but  don't  have  it  quite  as  thick  as  bread 
dough.  Let  this  rise  again,  and  one  hour  before  kneaded, 
roll,  cut,  put  into  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These 
are  for  tea;  but  if  wanted  for  breakfast,  make  them  up 
the  night  before,  and  work  the  first  thing  in  the  morning. 
Use  a  small  teacup  in  measuring  the  yeast. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

One  quart  of  flour, 

One  quart  of  milk, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 

Half  a  pint  of  yeast, 

Three  eggs. 

Stir  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  in  the  milk.  Add  the  flour, 
sugar,  melted  lard  and  butter,  then  the  yeast.  When 
risen,  add  a  little  more  flour,  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough, 


22 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


HOMINY  MEAL  MUFFINS. 

One  quart  of  hominy  meal, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Three  eggs. 

Scald  the  meal  well  and  stir  in  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten;  salt; 
lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Warm  and  grease  the 
molds,  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven  thirty  minutes. 

GOOD  EGG  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  corn  meal, 

One  tablespooonf  ul  of  lard  and  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Three  egs. 

Pour  a  little  boiling  water  over  the  meal  to  scald  it; 
add  the  salt;  stir  in  briskly  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the 
eggs,  then  the  milk  and  lard  and  butter  melted;  lastly, 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
nearly  an  hour. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour, 

Three  leaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
One  pint  of  milk. 

Sift  the  flour,  then  put  in  the  baking  powder,  salt  and 
butter;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  and  pour  in  the 
milk.  Eoll  only  once,  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit cutter,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
Begin  to  make  these  biscuits  just  half  an  hour  before 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


23 


they  are  to  be  eaten,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  mix  them. 
The  dough  should  only  be  stiff  enough  to  roll,  so  add  more 
milk  if  needed. 

POUNDED  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed; 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  bowl,  sprinkle  the  salt,  then  rub 
in  the  lard  and  butter.  Now  add  milk,  or  milk  and  water 
enough  for  a  stiff  dough.  Pound,  or  work,  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  If  the  dough  blisters,  and  snaps  when 
you  pull  it,  it  is  worked  enough.  Eoll,  cut,  and  stick  with 
a  fork.    Have  a  good  oven;  bake  and  brown  nicely. 

POUNDED  BISCUIT— NO.  2. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Ice  water  enough,  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  and  pound  or  work 
until  the  dough  blisters.  Roll  or  shape  with  the  hands, 
or  cut  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven,  but  don't  bake  too 
quickly.    Don't  forget  to  prick  nicely  with  a  small  fork. 

CREAM  BISCUITS. 

One  pound  of  flour, 
One  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Sprinkle  the  salt  over  the  flour,  mix  in  the  cream  with 
the  hands  thoroughly,  and  pound  or  work  until  the  dough 
blisters.  Shape  or  cut,  then  prick  as  for  pounded  bis- 
cuits, and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven, 


24 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal, 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sour  milk, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed, 

One  saltspoonful  of  soda, 

A  little  salt, 

One  egg. 

Beat  the  soda  in  the  milk  until  it  foams.  Put  the  salt 
in  the  meal,  add  the  milk,  and  beat  well,  then  the  lard 
and  butter  melted.  Lastly,  the  well-beaten  egg.  Bake 
quickly  in  molds.  If  sour  milk  cannot  be  had,  substi- 
tute sweet  milk,  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder. 


RICE  MUFFINS  WITH  CORN  MEAL. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal, 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  well-boiled  rice, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt, 

Two  eggs. 

Mix  the  meal  and  flour,  with  milk  enough  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  rice,  melted  butter, 
lard  and  salt.  Lastly,  the  baking  powder.  Bake  quickly 
in  molds,  in  a  well-heated  oven. 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teacupful  of  Graham  flour, 

One  teacupful  of  white  flour, 

One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

One  egg  and  a  little  salt, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Stir  the  flour  in  the  milk,  add  the  melted  butter,  salt, 
and  well-beaten  egg.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  lastly,  sift  in 
the  baking  powder.  Bake  quickly,  in  well-greased  muf- 
fin molds. 

POP  OVERS. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  flour, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  butter, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

The  yelks  of  two  eggs,  the  whites  of  three. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour,  then  add  the  well-beaten  yelks. 
Beat  well  for  five  minutes,  stir  in  the  melted  butter,  lastly 
beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  slowly  in.  Heat  and 
grease  the  molds  well,  fill  just  half  full  with  the  batter, 
bake  quickly  and  serve  immediately.  Use  the  largest  sized 
teacup  for  measuring. 

YEAST  MUFFINS. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  flour, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  yeast, 
Three  eggs. 

Mix  the  milk  with  the  flour,  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs, 
and,  with  the  butter  melted,  and  salt,  add  to  the  flour; 
lastly  the  yeast.  Put  this  to  rise  at  ten  o'clock  the  night 
before.  Just  before  baking  the  next  morning  beat  the 
whites  very  stiff,  and  stir  slowly  into  the  batter.  Grease 
and  heat  the  molds,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  If  these  muffins  should  be  wanted  for  supper  put 
them  to  rise  at  twelve  o'clock  that  day. 


26 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


BATTER  MUFFINS. 

Six  ounces  of  flour, 
Four  ounces  of  butter, 
Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Three  eggs. 

Put  the  butter  and  flour  together,  beat  the  yelks  of  the 
eggs  very  light,  and  with  the  milk  add  to  the  mixture  by 
degrees.  Lastly,  put  in  the  salt  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Put  into  well-greased  and  heated  molds 
and  bake  quickly. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

Three  pints  of  flour, 
One  pint  of  hot  milk, 
Half  a  pint  of  yeast, 
A  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Two  eggs. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  bowl,  pour  the  hot  milk  on  it,  mix 
well,  and  when  it  cools  slightly,  stir  in  the  yeast.  Let  this 
rise  and  when  light  work  over;  add  the  two  well-beaten 
eggs  and  salt.  When  thoroughly  mixed  bake  in  rings  on  a 
well-greased  and  well-heated  griddle,  and  turn  as  you  would 
flannel  cakes.  Split  and  butter.  If  for  breakfast,  and  po- 
tato yeast  is  used,  set  them  to  rise  at  10  o'clock  the  night 
before,  or  at  12  o'clock  in  the  day  if  for  tea.  If  quick 
yeast  is  used  they  will  rise  in  three  hours. 

MUFFINS  TO  BAKE  ON  A  GRIDDLE. 

One  pint  of  warmed  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast, 

Half  a  saltspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Flour  enough  for  a  thick  batter, 

Two  eggs. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


27 


Mix  with  the  warmed  milk  the  two  well  beaten  eggs, 
melted  butter,  salt  and  soda,  previously  dissolved  in  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  hot  water.  Beat  in  sufficient  flour  to  make 
a  thick  batter,  then  put  in  the  yeast.  Set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  for  three  hours,  if  in  the  summer;  if  in  the  winter 
it  will  take  an  hour  longer.  When  light,  heat  the  griddle, 
grease  it  well  with  butter,  then  grease  the  rings,  put  them 
on  the  griddle  and  half  fill  with  batter;  when  one  side  is 
done  turn  and  bake  both  sides  a  light  brown.  When  done, 
break  them  open,  butter  and  serve  very  hot;  never  cut 
them.  If  cold  they  can  be  toasted  lightly  on  each  side  and 
buttered. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

One  teacupful  of  well-boiled  rice, 
One  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
One  pint  of  flour, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
One  egg. 

Melt  the  butter  and  mix  with  the  rice,  add  the  well- 
beaten  egg,  flour  and  milk  enough,  in  alternation,  to  make 
a  batter  of  medium  thickness.  Bake  in  a  well-heated  oven 
in  molds.  A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  can  be  added 
if  desired. 

ROSETTES. 

Four  teacupfuls  of  flour, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  in  the 
milk.  Add  the  melted  butter,  and  sift  in  the  flour,  then 
the  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
mix  through  gradually.  Warm  and  grease  the  pans,  and 
bake  in  a  good  oven. 


28 


i 

THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CORN  MEAL  MUSH. 

One  teacupful  of  sifted  meal, 
One  quart  of  cold  water, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  water  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  meal,  by 
degrees,  then  add  the  salt.  If  after  boiling  for  a  while  it 
is  too  thin,  stir  in  a  little  more  meal.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  a  little  milk.  Stir  often,  and  boil  slowly  for  three 
hours. 

CORN  MEAL  BATTER  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal, 
Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  buttermilk, 
A  small  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
One  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Yelks  of  two  eggs,  the  white  of  one, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Sift  the  corn  meal  well;  beat  the  soda  in  the  buttermilk 
until  it  foams,  then  stir  in  the  meal.  Add  the  well-beaten 
yelks,  then  the  salt,  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  froth.  This  batter  should  be  thin  and  well  stirred  up 
from  the  bottom,  when  baking  each  cake.  Bake  on  a 
well-heated  and  well-greased  griddle.  If  buttermilk  or 
sour  milk  can  not  be  had,  use  sweet  milk  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder  sprinkled  in  just  before  the  whites 
of  the  eggs. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH  BATTER  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal  mush, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
Salt  to  the  taste, 
Two  eggs. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


29 


Beat  the  yelks  very  light,  and  stir  in  the  mush,  then 
add  the  flour,  beating  well  all  the  time.  Put  in  the  salt, 
and  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Lastly  the 
baking  powder.  Fry  on  a  quick  griddle,  and  have  it  well 
greased. 

OAT  MEAL  BATTER  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  cooked  oat-meal, 

One  teacupful  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder, 

Salt  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Beat  the  oat  meal  and  flour  in  the  milk,  alternately, 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  the  well-beaten  yelks,  and 
salt  to  the  taste.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in 
gradually.  Lastly  the  baking  powder.  Fry  on  a  quick 
and  well-greased  griddle. 

TO  COOK  OAT  FLAKES. 

One  coffeecupful  of  oat  flakes, 
One  quart  of  boiling  water, 
Half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Put  the  boiling  water  into  the  sauce  pan  with  the  salt, 
and  stir  in  the  oat  flakes.  Let  this  boil  steadily  for  half 
an  hour,  stirring  constantly,  then  add  a  little  boiled  milk 
to  keep  it  from  being  too  stiff.  Boil  half  an  hour  longer, 
continuing  to  stir,  then  serve. 

TO  COOK  CRUSHED  INDAIN. 

One  pint  of  Crushed  Indian, 
Three  pints  of  boiling  water, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  boiling  water  in  the  sauce  pan  with  tne  salt, 
then  stir  in  the  Crushed  Indian,  and  stir  constantly  until 


80 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


done;  half  an  hour  will  cook  it.  Just  before  it  is  done, 
add  a  little  boiled  milk. 

BREAD  CAKES. 

xlalf  a  pint  of  stale  bread, 
One  pint  of  flour, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed, 
One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
Two  eggs,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Take  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  to 
soak  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  the  well-beaten  yelks,  and 
flour,  alternately.  Should  the  latter  be  too  stiff,  add  a 
little  more  milk;  as  it  should  be  the  consistency  of  flannel 
cakes.  Beat  well  until  the  bread  and  flour  are  thoroughly 
mixed.  Melt  the  butter  and  lard,  and  stir  in,  adding  salt 
to  the  taste.  Sift  in  the  baking  powder;  lastly,  beat  the 
whites  very  stiff,  and  stir  in  slowly.  Have  the  griddle  hot 
and  well  greased. 

< 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  buckwheat, 

One  coffeecupful  of  corn  meal, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  yeast, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed 

One  tablespoonful  of  thick  molasses, 

One  quart  of  water, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  water  be  lukewarm,  and  beat  into  it  alternately, 
the  buckwheat  and  corn  meal;  then  the  lard  and  butter, 
melted,  the  molasses  and  salt,  and  lastly  the  yeast.  If 
wanted  for  breakfast,  put  to  rise  at  9  o'clock  the  night  be- 
fore. If  for  tea,  at  11  o'clock  in  the  morning — that  is  if 
potato-yeast  is  used.  Fleischman's  is  much  quicker.  Just 
before  baking  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  31 


BUCKWHEAT  CAKES.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  backwheat  flour, 

Two  cooking-spoonfuls  of  corn  meal, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  yeast, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  quart  and  a  half  of  milk  and  water, 

One  tablespoonf ul  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed. 

Mix  the  buckwheat  with  the  milk  and  water,  meal,  salt 
and  yeast.  Beat  well  with  a  large  spoon,  and  put  into  a 
stone  jar  to  rise  over  night.  The  first  thing  in  the  morn- 
ing stir  the  batter  down,  and  just  before  baking  stir  in 
two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  it  with  milk. 
Bake  on  a  quick  and  well-greased  griddle.  In  order  to 
make  them  brown  nicely,  a  tablespoonful  of  New  Orleans 
molasses  should  be  added  just  before  the  yeast. 


YEAST  FLANNEL  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  flour, 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
One  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  tablespoonful  of  yeast, 
One  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt, 
Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  milk  and  flour  together  until  thoroughly  mixed, 
then  add  the  lard  and  butter  melted,  and  the  yeast.  Let 
this  rise,  and  just  before  baking  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
stir  in  the  yelks,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake 
on  a  quick  and  well-greased  griddle.  If  you  wish  rice  in 
them,  when  you  put  in  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  you  can  add  a 
teacupful  of  rice  that  has  been  boiled  until  it  can  be  mashed 
with  a  spoon.    If  these  cakes  are  made  of  potato  yeast  nut 


82 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


them  to  rise  over  night  if  wanted  for  breakfast.  If  for 
supper  put  them  to  rise  at  twelve  o'clock.  If  quick  yeast 
is  used  they  will  be  light  in  three  hours.  If  the  batter 
should  taste  at  all  sour  add  a  saltspoonful  of  soda  just 
before  baking. 

RICE  FLANNEL  CAKES. 

One  teacupful  of  well  boiled  rice, 
One  even  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  butter  mixe_, 
One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
.Two  pints  of  flour, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Salt  to  the  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  milk, 
flour,  rice,  lard  and  butter,  melted,  and  the  salt.  Beat 
all  well  together,  then  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  powder.  Bake  on  a  well-heated 
and  well-greased  griddle.  The  rice  must  be  soft  enough 
to  mash  with  a  spoon. 

BAKING  POWDER  FLANNEL  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  well-sifted  flour, 

Three  well-beaten  eggs, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter  and  lard, 

Three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

Milk  enough  for  a  thick  batter, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  milk,  and  beat  hard,  then  add 
the  well-beaten  yelks,  and  lard  and  butter  melted.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  and  stir  in  slowly.  Lastly, 
sift  in  the  baking  powder. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


33 


RICE  WAFFLES. 

One  teacupful  of  well-boiled  rice, 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  flour 

One  teaspoonfu\  of  baking  powder, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  quart  of  milk, 

Three  eggs. 

Soak  the  rice  for  half  an  hour  in  the  milk;  stir  in  the 
flour,  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  lard  and  butter 
melted,  and  salt.  Beat  well,  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs;  lastly,  the  baking  powder.  The  irons  must 
be  well  greased  and  very  hot. 

YEAST  WAFFLES. 

One  pint  of  flour, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pint  of  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast, 

Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows,  stir  in  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  and 
butter  melted,  with  a  little  salt.  Add  the  yeast;  lastly, 
the  well -beaten  whites.  If  for  supper,  put  the  batter  to 
rise  three  hours  before.  If  for  breakfast,  make  the  batter 
over  night. 

WAFFLES.— NO.  i. 

One  pint  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  or  buttermilk, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

A  little  salt, 

One  egg. 


34 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Stir  the  soda  in  the  milk  until  it  foams,  then  add  the 
flour  and  lard  and  butter  melted,  beating  well  all  the  time. 
Beat  the  egg  separately,  adding  the  yellow  first,  then  the 
white.  The  salt  should  be  put  in  the  flour  dry.  Bake  in 
well-greased  and  well-heated  irons. 


WAFFLES.— NO.  2. 

Two  pints  and  a  half  of  flour, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed 

One  pint  of  milk, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Two  eggs. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour,  then  the  well-beaten  yelks  of 
the  eggs;  stir  in  the  butter  and  lard  melted,  and  salt. 
Beat  well,  and  add  slowly  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs;  lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  powder.  Waffle  batter 
should  always  be  thin.  Should  this  batter  be  too  thick, 
thin  with  equal  portions  of  milk  and  water.  Bake  quickly 
in  well-heated  and  well-greased  irons. 


WAFFLES.— NO.  3. 

Half  a  pound  or  flour, 
Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
Salt  to  the  taste, 
Six  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour;  add  the  milk  and  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs  in  alternation.  Should  this  be 
too  stiff,  add  more  milk,  as  waffle  batter  should  be  thin. 
Lastly,  stir  in  gently  the  well-beaten  whites.  Bake  quickly 
in  well-greased  and  well-heated    affle  irons. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


85 


GERMAN  WAFFLES. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  pound  of  flour, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  quick  yeast, 

Eight  eggs, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Warm  the  milk;  cut  the  butter  up,  and  with  the  salt, 
stir  in  the  milk  until  melted;  then  the  well-beaten  yelks 
and  flour  in  alternation.  Lastly,  put  in  the  yeast.  Cover 
the  pan  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
Just  before  baking,  beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  and  stir  in 
gently.  Half  this  quantity  can  be  made.  If  wanted  for 
breakfast,  it  would  be  better  to  set  the  batter  to  rise  the 
night  before,  and  use  potato  yeast.  Have  the  irons  well 
heated  and  well  greased. 

GOOD  RUSKS; 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  light  dough, 
Four  ounces  of  butter, 
Eight  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar, 
Four  eggs. 

The  dough  must  be  raised  with  yeast,  and  flour  enough 
must  be  mixed  with  it  until  it  ceases  to  stick  to  the  hand. 
Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  the  butter  melted,  lastly  the 
sugar.  Roll  out  and  shape  with  the  hands.  Put  on  tins 
to  rise,  and  when  very  light,  which  will  be  in  about  an 
hour,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  The  crust 
would  be  improved  by  sprinkling  a  little  pulverized  sugar 
and  ground  cinnamon  over  each  rusk,  about  ten  minutes 
before  taking  them  out  of  the  oven. 


36 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


'SPANISH  BUNS. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour, 

One  coffeecupful  of  cream, 

One  coffeecupful  of  dried  currants, 

Six  ounces  of  butter. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour.  Beat  the  yellows  of  the 
eggs  very  light  with  the  sugar,  and  add  to  the  flour.  Wash, 
pick  and  dry  the  currants;  flour  well,  and  mix  through. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in 
slowly.  Lastly  sift  in  the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  well- 
heated  oven. 

TO  COOK  CORN  GRITS. 

One  coffeecupful  of  grits, 

Three  coffeecupfuls  of  boiling  water, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

Put  the  grits  in  the  water  with  the  salt,  and  boil 
steadily  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  frequently  while  boil- 
ing.   Just  before  it  is  done  add  a  small  cupful  of  milk. 

OATMEAL  GRITS. 

One  coffeecupful  of  fine  oatmeal, 
One  quart  of  boiling  water, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  salt  in  the  boiling  water,  sprinkle  the  meal 
lightly  in  with  one  hand  while  stirring  it  with  the  other. 
When  thoroughly  mixed,  let  it  boil  steadily  for  one  hour 
without  stirring  it  more  than  necessary  to  keep  it  from 
sticking,  for  the  steam  swells  the  grains  and  makes  them 
light. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


OMELETTE. 

One  teaspoonf  ill  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

A  saltspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

A  tumbler  of  milk, 

A  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Eight  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  very  light,  add  the  milk  and  the 
flour.  Then  the  onion,  parsley,  salt  and  black  pepper  to 
the  taste,  and  melted  butter.  Have  ready  some  butter  in 
a  well-heated  pan.  Pour  in  one  half  of  the  mixture,  and 
shovel  to  the  middle  of  the  pan,  so  as  to  have  it  in  the 
shape  of  a  half  moon. ,  Let  it  brown  nicely,  and  turn  into 
a  heated  disk.  Make  another  omelette  out  of  the  remain- 
ing half. 

HAM  OMELETTE. 

One  teacupful  of  chopped  ham, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
Six  eggs. 

Cold  boiled  ham  must  be  used  for  chopping.  Put  in 
black  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yelks 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted.  Lastly,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  slowly  in.  Have 
ready  a  hot  pan  with  some  butter  in  it,  pour  in  the  mixt- 
ure, and  when  done,  fold  over  and  serve  in  a  well-heated 
dish. 

SMALL  OMELETTES. 

Half  a  teacupful  of  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

Five  eggs,  salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

A  saltspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 


38 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk,  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  beat  hard,  and  add  the  parsley, 
onion,  salt  and  black  pepper;  then  the  butter,  melted. 
When  ready  to  fry,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir 
in  slowly.  This  will  make  five  small  omelettes,  or  one 
large  omelette. 

TO  POACH  EGGS. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water, 
One  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt, 
As  many  eggs  as  required. 

Put  the  water  in  the  skillet  with  the  salt,  let  it  boil, 
then  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  it,  one  at  a  time,  and 
let  them  poach  for  three  minutes.  Take  them  out  care- 
fully, and  put  each  one  on  a  round,  thin  slice  of  buttered 
toast  and  then  on  a  well-heated  dish. 

TO  BOIL  EGGS. 

Wash  the  eggs  and  put  them  as  wanted  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water.  If  wanted  soft,  boil  three  minuter ;  if 
wanted  harder,  boil  five  minutes ;  if  wanted  for  salad,  boil 
fifteen  minutes  ;  then  put  them  in  cold  water,  so  as  they 
will  peel  easily.  Always  eat  soft-boiled  eggs  as  soon  as 
they  are  done. 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
Two  chopped  spring  onions, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine, 
One  ounce  of  butter, 
Six  eggs. 

Put  the  grated  cheese  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  chopped 
onion  and  sherry  wine,  stir  all  over  the  fire  until  the  cheese 
is  thoroughly  melted.  Beat  the  eggs,  put  them  into  the 
sauce-pan  with  the  cheese  and  stir  over  a  slo    fire  until 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


39 


done.  Have  some  nicely  cut  pieces  of  hot  fried  toast,  and 
pour  the  mixture  over  them.  A  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  would  be  a  pleasant  addition  stirred  in  the  cheese 
before  it  is  melted. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

A  piece  of  lime  the  size  of  a  quart  bowl, 
Half  a  pound  of  cream  of  tartar, 
Two  quarts  of  water, 
Salt  sufficient  to  float  an  egg. 

Slack  the  lime  by  degrees  with  a  little  boiling  water/ 
keeping  it  well  covered  during  the  process.  Add  the 
water,  cream  of  tartar  and  salt.  Let  this  preparation 
stand  for  a  week.  Place  the  eggs  in  a  wide  mouth  crock 
or  tub,  with  the  little  ends  down,  being  sure  that  each  end 
is  perfectly  sound.  Place  on  them  a  thick  cloth,  then  a 
plate  with  a  weight  on  it,  to  keep  the  eggs  in  place.  Lastly, 
pour  over  the  pickle,  taking  care  to  have  all  the  eggs  well 
covered.  Eggs  preserved  in  this  way  will  keep  fresh  for 
nearly  a  year. 

WELSH  RARE  BIT. 

Half  a  pound  of  new  cheese, 

The  yelk  of  one  raw  egg, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Melt  the  cheese  slowly,  and  add  by  degrees  dry  mus- 
tard to  the  taste,  then  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper;  thin 
with  beer.  Have  some  nicely-cut  pieces  of  buttered  toast 
and  spread  the  cheese  on  them. 

WELSH  RARE  BIT.— NO.  2. 

Half  a  pound  of  fresh  cheese, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  cream, 
One  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  teaspoonful  of  butter. 


40 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Put  the  cheese  in  the  dish  you  intend  serving  this  in, 
and  let  it  be  one  that  will  stand  the  heat.  While  it  is 
melting  mix  the  mustard  with  the  cream;  melt  the  butter 
and  add;  then  season  to  the  taste.  Let  it  come  to  one 
simmer,  stirring  all  the  time  to  have  the  ingredients  well 
mixed,  then  serve  immediately.  Let  it  stand  for  a  moment 
or  two  after  you  stop  stirring,  so  as  to  have  the  top  smooth. 

TONGUE  TOAST. 

One  boiled  tongue, 
A  teacupful  of  cream, 
Yelk  of  one  egg, 

A  half-teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard. 

After  the  tongue  has  been  well  boiled  and  is  perfectly 
cold,  either  grate  or  mince  very  fine.  Mix  with  it  the 
cream,  the  well-beaten  yelk  of  the  egg  and  the  mustard. 
Simmer  two  or  three  minutes.  Cut  off  the  crust  of  some 
slices  of  bread,  toast  nicely,  and  butter  well.  Heat  a  flat 
dish,  lay  the  slices  of  toast  on  it,  spread  the  mixed  tongue 
on  them,  and  send  to  the  table  hot  in  a  covered  dish.  This 
makes  a  nice  breakfast  or  supper  dish.  For  tongue,  sub- 
stitute cold  boiled  ham. 


MFATS  FOR  BREAKFAST 


ONE  WAY  TO  COOK  A  STEAK. 

A  nice,  tender  beefsteak, 
Butter,  black  pepper  and  salt. 

Wipe  the  steak  dry,  and  pepper  it  well  with  black  pep- 
per. Put  it  on  a  gridiron  before  a  bright  fire.  Broil  one 
side  until  half  done,  and  do  the  other  side  the  same  way. 
Have  ready  a  pan  over  hot  water,  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  black  pepper  and  salt.  Press  the  steak  well  on 
each  side,  return  to  the  fire,  and  broil  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Have  a  dish  heated,  put  the  steak  on  it,  and 
pour  over  the  butter  in  which  the  steak  was  pressed. 
Never  salt  a  steak  until  half  cooked. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  BROIL  A  STEAK. 

A  nice  tender  steak, 
Tomato  or  walnut  catsup, 
Black  pepper  and  butter. 

Put  a  little  butter  in  the  skillet  and  when  quite  hot 
put  in  the  steak.  Press,  and  turn  in  the  butter  until 
nearly  done,  then  take  it  out,  put  in  a  little  walnut  or 
tomato  catsup  and  let  it  stew  for  a  minute.  Eecurn  the 
steak  to  the  skillet,  press  it  for  a  few  minutes  longer,  then 
put  it  on  a  heated  dish  and  the  gravy  over  it. 

TO  DEVIL  HAM. 

A  few  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham, 
Mixed  mustard,  breau-crumbs,  and  black  pepper. 

41 


42 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Pepper  the  slices  of  ham,  spread  the  mustard  on  them, 
and  sprinkle  with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Eoll  each  piece 
and  tie  a  thread  loosely  around.  Put  them  in  the  oven, 
with  some  butter  in  the  pan,  for  about  ten  minutes,  bast- 
ing the  pieces  with  the  butter  as  they  are  cooking.  The 
thinner  the  slices  are  cut,  the  better. 

BEEF  STEW  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

One  quart  of  beef  cut  in  dice, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  flour. 

Put  the  beef  and  onion  into  a  skillet,  with  water  enough 
to  cover,  and  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  and  add  the 
potatoes  and  cook  five  minutes  longer.  Put  the  flour  and 
batter  together,  stir  in,  and  when  it  thickens,  season. 
Have  ready,  in  a  heated  dish,  some  nicely-cut  pieces  of 
buttered  toast,  and  pour  the  stew  over  them.  A  little 
summer  savory  can  be  added  if  desired.  Cold  roast  beef 
must  be  used. 

DRY  BEEF  HASH. 

One  pint  of  chopped  beef, 

One  pint  of  mashed  potato, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  cream, 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Have  the  beef,  that  has  either  been  boiled  or  roasted, 
free  from  all  fat;  mix  with  the  potato,  cream,  onion  and 
parsley,  add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Stir  in  a  skillet  or  bake  in  an  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  If 
baked,  put  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  some  bread  crumbs  on  top, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


43 


and  put  here  and  there  some  small  pieces  of  butter.  A 
tablespoonful  of  butter  can  be  added  when  mixing. 

LAMB  CHOPS. 

They  should  be  neatly  trimmed;  the  bone  scraped,  pep- 
pered and  rolled  in  butter;  then  broiled  with  great  care. 
When  done,  put  more  butter  on  them,  also  some  salt  and 
black  pepper.  Wrap  little  ruffles  of  white  paper  around 
the  ends  of  the  sticks;  place  the  chops  nicely  around  the 
dish,  and  have  a  center  of  tomatoes,  peas,  champignons  or 
mashed  potatoes.  Chops  are  also  nice  dipped  in  bread 
crumbs,  after  broiling,  and  browned  in  lard,  and  served  as 
above. 

MUTTON  OR  LAMB  STEW. 

One  pound  of  lamb  or  mutton, 

One  medium  sized  onion, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Half  a  pint  of  milk, 

Six  potatoes. 

Take  cooked  mutton  and  cut  into  dice.  Boil  the  pota- 
toes, and  cut  them  also  into  dice.  Have  the  milk  boiling 
in  the  skillet,  then  put  all  in,  and  stew  for  ten  minutes. 
Cream  the  butter  and  flour  and  stir  in  the  mutton  until  it 
thickens.  Have  in  the  dish  some  hot  buttered  toast,  and 
pour  the  stew  over  them.  The  onion  should  also  be 
boiled  before  putting  in  the  stew,  and  chopped  fine. 

TO  MAKE  VEAL  HASH. 

One  quart  of  chopped  veal, 
One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
Two  tablespoonf  uls  of  tomato  catsup, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 


44 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Cut  in  dice  a  quart  of  the  cold  fillet  of  veal,  cook  the 
onion  before  chopping,  put  it  with  the  veal,  a  pint  of  hot 
water,  salt  and  pepper  into  a  skillet.  While  it  is  simmer- 
ing, wet  the  flour  and  butter  together  and  stir  in  until 
it  thickens,  then  add  the  catsup.  Have  pieces  of  buttered 
toast  about  four  inches  square  in  a  heated  dish  and  pour 
the  hash  over  them.  The  stuffing  can  be  added  instead  of 
the  flour  if  preferred. 

COLD  MUTTON  HASH. 

One  pint  of  chopped  mutton, 

One  pint  of  chopped  potatoes, 

One  medium  sized  onion  chopped  fine, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

A  cooking-spoonf  ul  of  butter, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  potatoes  and  onion  in  a  skillet  with  enough 
water  to  cover.  Stew  for  half  an  hour,  and  add  the  but- 
ter, summer  savory,  mutton,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  for 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast. 
Should  the  hash  be  thin,  mix  with  the  butter  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  flour.    Cold  beef  hash  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

TURKEY  HASH. 

One  quart  of  chopped  turkey, 

One  pint  of  potatoes  cut  in  dice, 

One  cookingspoonful  of  chopped  celery, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  cream, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  potatoes  and  celery  in  a  skillet,  with  water 
enough  to  cover,  and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  in 
the  turkey,  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  all  come  to  a 
boil,    Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  liquid  of  the  hash 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


45 


and  stir  in  until  it  thickens.  If  cream  is  not  to  be  had 
substitute  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  if  celery 
is  not  convenient,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion 
and  summer  savory,  to  the  taste. 

TURKEY  HASH.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  chopped  turkey, 

One  pint  of  mashed  potatoes, 

A  half  teacupful  of  cream, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  celery, 

A  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  turkey,  potato  and  cream  well  together;  add 
the  celery,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper;  melt  the  butter  and 
stir  in.  Put  all  into  a  skillet  and  stir  for  five  minutes,  or 
put  into  a  dish,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and  pieces  of  butter 
on  top  and  bake  in  an  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  If  not 
baked,  when  putting  it  in  the  dish  have  ready  in  it  some 
pieces  of  hot  buttered  toast. 

TURKEY  HASH.— No.  3. 

Take  what  cold  turkey  you  have,  chop  very  fine,  add  the 
stuffing,  a  little  water  and  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter. 
Stir  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  on  nicely  cut  pieces  of  but- 
tered toast.  Should  there  be  no  stuffing  left,  put  in  as 
much  mashed  potatoes  as  you  have  chopped  turkey,  and 
cook  as  directed. 

SAUSAGE  MEAT. 

Eleven  pounds  of  tenderloins, 
Seven  pounds  of  leaf  fat, 

Four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sage, 
Three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  black  pepper, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper. 


46 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Chop  or  grind  the  meat  as  fine  as  possible.  Put  in  "the 
salt  and  pepper;  lastly,  the  sage.  Mix  well  with  the  hands, 
and  fry  in  little  cakes. 

SAUSAGE  MEAT.— No.  2. 

Five  pounds  of  tenderloins, 
Four  pounds  of  leaf  fat, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  sage, 
One  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper, 
One  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  salt, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Pick  out  the  strings  from  the  fat,  and  the  pieces  of  skin 
from  the  tenderloins  before  weighing.  Kun  through  the 
meat  grinder  twice;  put  in  the  seasoning,  and  mix  well 
with  the  hands.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.    Fry  in  small  cakes. 

SAUSAGE  MEAT.— No.  3. 

Three  pounds  of  tenderloins, 
Two  pounds  of  leaf  fat, 

Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sage, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  black  pepper, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Grind  the  tenderloins  and  fat  as  fine  as  possible;  add 
the  sage,  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
hands.  Then  put  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool 
place.  When  cooking,  make  into  small,  round  cakes,  and 
fry  a  very  dark  color. 


TO  COOK  SAUSAGES. 


Make  into  small  cakes  half  an  inch  thick,  dredge  with 
a  little  flour  and  fry  in  a  skillet  with  a  small  piece  of  lard 
until  a  dark  brown. 


ft*,  i 

THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  47 

TO  PREPARE  HOGS'  BRAINS. 

When  they  are  taken  from  the  heads  they  must  be 
picked,  skinned  and  washed,  changing  the  water  while 
washing  until  it  is  clear.  Put  them  into  a  bucket  of  cold 
water  with  some  salt,  soak  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  use.  Stew  or  fry.  They  can  be  kept  for 
ten  days  by  soaking  them  in  salt  and  water,  and  changing 
the  water  every  third  day. 

TO  FRY  HOGS'  BRAINS. 

One  quart  of  brains, 

One  large  cookiDg-spoonful  of  butter, 

Salt,  black  pepper  and  powdered  sage  to  taste, 

Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  and  mix  with  the  brains.  Heat 
the  skillet,  put  in  the  butter,  and  when  melted  add  the 
brains.  Stir  rapidly  all  the  time,  as  you  do  when  scramb- 
ling eggs.  When  half  done  add  the  salt,  black  pepper  and 
powdered  sage  ;  continue  to  stir,  and  when  they  cease  to 
stick  to  the  skillet  they  are  done.  This  makes  a  delicious 
dish  for  breakfast.  Be  sure  to  wash  all  the  blood  from  the 
brains  and  pick  out  all  the  pieces  of  bone,  and  the  strings. 

TO  STEW  HOGS'  BRAINS. 

One  quart  of  brains, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Salt,  black  pepper,  and  powdered  sage  to  the  taste. 

After  the  brains  have  been  well  washed  and  picked,  put 
them  into  hot  water  enough  to  cover  them  and  stew  ten 
minutes.  Pour  off  the  water,  stir  in  the  cream,  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sage.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  longer 
and  serve. 


48 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  PREPARE  TRIPE. 

Cold  water, 
Tripe, 
Vinegar, 
Salt. 

Scrape  and  wash  the  tripe  thoroughly.  Put  it  in  cold 
water  and  salt,  and  soak  for  ten  days.  Don't  put  much 
salt  in,  and  just  keep  it  covered  with  water,  and  change 
it  every  other  day.  Boil  it  for  nine  hours  steady,  and  it 
will  be  ready  to  fry,  stew  or  boil.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  any 
length  of  time,  it  should  be  put  in  brine  or  vinegar. 

TO  STEW  TRIPE. 

One  teacupful  of  cream, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  quantity  of  tripe  you  intend  stewing  into  small 
pieces,  about  two  inches  square.  Pat  it  into  a  sauce  pan, 
with  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water,  enough  to  cover 
well.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then  stir  in  the  cream.  Put 
the  flour  and  butter  together  and  add  to  it;  after  it  has 
boiled  five  minutes  longer,  chop  the  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
stir  them  in.  A  little  vinegar  and  mixed  mustard  is  an 
improvement.    This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

TO  BOIL  HOGS'  FEET. 

Two  dozen  pigs'  feet, 
A  good  deal  of  water, 
A  large  cooking-spoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  feet  into  a  large  pot,  and  cover  with  lukewarm 
water,  adding  the  salt.    Simmer  slowly  until  thoroughly 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


49 


done,  which  will  take  four  or  five  hours.  The  bones  must  be 
loose,  but  they  must  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water 
until  they  are  ready  to  fall  out.  When  done,  put  in  a 
large,  wide-mouthed  jar  and  cover  with  the  water  they 
were  boiled  in;  then  put  in  the  following  spices:  one  cof- 
feecupful  of  whole  allspice,  half  a  teacupful  of  whole 
cloves,  one  coffeecupful  of  whole  black  pepper  grains. 
Lastly,  add  a  third  as  much  vinegar  as  you  have  water. 
Watch  them  closely,  so  as  not  to  let  the  water  and  vinegar 
be  absorbed  entirely,  but  when  you  see  it  disappearing  add 
more  according  to  directions. 

TO  FRY  HOGS'  FEET. 

Three  pigs'  feet, 

Two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper, 

One  teacupful  of  bread-crumbs. 

Slice  the  feet  lengthwise;  dip  thoroughly  first  in  the 
egg,  then  in  the  bread-crumbs,  let  them  stand  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  so  as  the  egg  will  be  well  dried  upon  them. 
Have  a  good  deal  of  hot  lard  in  a  deep  skillet,  and  fry  as 
you  would  oysters.  The  salt  and  pepper,  to  the  taste, 
must  be  put  in  the  eggs,  which  should  be  well  beaten  be- 
fore dipping  the  feet  in  them. 

TO  STEW  HOGS'  FEET. 

Some  cold  boiled  hogs'  feet, 

Cream  according  to  the  quantity  of  feet 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 

A  little  sweet  marjory. 

Take  the  quantity  of  feet  you  wish  to  serve,  put  them 
into  a  sauce  pan  with  a  little  hot  water.  Cover,  and  steam 
until  perfectly  soft,  and  put  in  the  cream.  Let  it  boil  up 
once,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  to  the  feet, 
boil  up  once  more,  season,  and  put  in  a  little  sweet  mar- 
jory to  the  taste. 


I 


SOUPS. 


SOUP  STOCK  OF  BEEF. 

One  large  shin-bone, 

Four  quarts  of  water, 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef, 

Four  carrots,  three  onions, 

Four  turnips,  one  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  bone,  which  has  been  previously  cracked  in 
three  pieces,  into  the  soup-pot,  with  the  water,  and  beef 
cut  into  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  some  salt.  Boil 
slowly  for  an  hour,  skimming  well  until  all  of  the  grease 
is  taken  off.  Scrape  the  carrots,  peel  the  onions  and  tur- 
nips, then  quarter,  and,  with  the  celery  seed,  add  to  the 
soup.  Let  this  boil  slowly  for  four  hours;  take  off,  strain 
into  a  stone  jar,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Veal  stock  can 
be  made  in  the  same  way,  by  getting  a  large  knuckle  of 
veal  and  addmg  two  pounds  of  the  meat. 


TO  MAKE  A  SIMPLE  SOUP  STOCK. 

Make  it  either  of  beef  shin  or  a  knuckle  of  veal,  as  the 
vegetable  stock  is  made,  only  leave  out  the  vegetables,  and 
clear  it  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  allowing  one  white  to  each 
quart.    Skim  as  you  would  clear  soup. 

50 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


51 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  well-made  beef  stock, 

Three  large  carrots, 

Two  large  turnips, 

Two  large  onions, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Three  large  tomatoes, 

One  quart  of  clear  water, 

One  teacupful  of  milk, 

Two  large  potatoes, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

eel  and  cut  the  vegetables  in  small  pieces,  put  into 
the  stock,  and  add  the  clear  water,  boiling  for  one  hour. 
Take  out  the  parsley  and  rub  the  vegetables  through  a 
sieve;  return  to  the  stock,  add  the  milk,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Have  ready  some 
fried  toast  cut  in  dice,  put  them  in  a  well-heated  tureen 
and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  clear  soup, 
Two  good-sized  carrots, 
One  good-sized  turnip, 
Two  large  pieces  of  celery, 
One  small  onion, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  thin  small  squares.  Put  the  car- 
rots, turnips  and  onions  in  the  soup,  and  boil  steadily  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  put  in  the  celery,  and  boil 
half  an  hour  longer.  Poach  some  eggs,  say  one  for  each 
person,  trim  them  around  nicely,  drop  into  the  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  over  them  just  as  it  is  ready  to  send  to  the 
table.  This  soup  can  be  served  without  eggs,  accord- 
ing to  taste.    Add  the  salt  before  putting  in  the  eggs. 


52 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


BOUILLON,  OR  CLEAR  SOUP. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
Four  quarts  of  clear  water, 
One  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 
Four  large  onions, 
Six  large  carrots, 
One  bunch  of  parsley, 
Six  blades  of  mace, 
Sixteen  whole  cloves, 
The  whites  of  four  eggs, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  beef  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut,  taking 
care  not  to  leave  a  particle  of  fat  on  them.  Pour  on  the  four 
quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  up  three  times,  skimming 
well  each  time;  for  if  any  of  the  grease  is  allowed  to  go 
back  into  the  soup,  it  will  be  impossible  to  get  it  clear. 
Scrape  the  carrots,  stick  four  whole  cloves  firmly  into  each 
onion,  and  put  them  in  the  soup.  Then  add  the  celery 
seed,  parsley,  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  this  boil  until 
the  vegetables  are  tender,  then  strain  through  a  bag,  re- 
turn to  the  soup  pot,  and  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Boil  until  the  eggs  gather  to  one  side,  skim  off, 
and  color  a  delicate  amber  by  burning  a  dessertspoonful 
of  brown  sugar,  and  stirring  it  into  the  soup  until  suffi- 
ciently colored.  Wash  the  bag  in  warm  water,  pour  the 
soup  through  again,  and  serve. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli, 

Four  pounds  of  veal, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

Two  large  onions, 

Two  large  carrots, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

Eight  whole  cloves, 

One  blade  of  mace, 

Salt,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


53 


Put  the  meat  into  the  pot  with  cold  water;  let  it  boil 
up  three  times,  skimming  carefully  each  time.  Scrape 
and  divide  the  carrot;  peel  the  onions,  and  stick  four 
whole  cloves  firmly  in  each  onion;  then,  with  the  other 
ingredients,  put  into  the  soup,  and  boil  steadily  until  the 
veal  and  vegetables  are  tender.  Strain  through  a  sieve; 
put  back  into  the  pot;  beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
stir  in  and  let  it  boil  until  the  eggs  gather  to  one  side. 
Strain  off,  and  color  with  a  little  brown  sugar.  Now 
break  up  the  vermicelli  into  pieces  about  four  or  five  inches 
in  length,  put  it  in  the  soup,  and  boil  until  tender. 

CABBAGE  SOUP. 

One  large  head  of  cabbage, 

Two  quarts  of  clear  water, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Take  off  the  outside  leaves  of  the  cabbage,  cut  it  up  and 
fry  it  with  the  butter  until  it  commences  to  turn  yellow. 
Put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Boil  one  hour,  take  out  the  parsley,  pour  in  the 
milk,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer.    Serve  very  hot. 

LEEK  SOUP. 

Two  medium  sized  onions, 
Six  average  sized  potatoes, 
One  slice  of  bread. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 
Four  leeks. 

Out  the  leeks  and  onions  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  in 
butter  for  ten  minutes,  add  the  potatoes,  cut  in  two,  and 

the  slice  of  bread.   Cover  the  whole  with  water  and,  boil 


54 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


until  the  potatoes  are  very  tender,  then  mash.  Add  clear 
soup  until  the  proper  thickness,  and  boil  over  a  slow  fire 
for  forty-five  minutes.  The  onions  may  be  omitted  if 
objectionable. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Eight  large  potatoes, 
One  small  onion, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  c_opped  parsley, 
Two  quarts  of  stock, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Slice  the  potatoes  and  onion,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce 
pan  with  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter.  Stir  until  nicely 
colored,  then  put  in  the  soup  and  chopped  parsley.  Boil 
until  the  potatoes  are  perfectly  soft.  Put  through  a  col- 
ander, return  to  the  fire,  add  the  salt  and  a  little  black 
pepper ;  boil  five  minutes,  and  just  before  taking  off  the 
fire  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  three  eggs.  Don't  let 
the  soup  boil  after  adding  the  eggs,  but  stir  for  a  minute 
so  as  to  mix  well. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Three  pounds  of  veal, 

Three  bunches  of  asparagus, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

One  teacupful  of  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch, 

Salt  and  white  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  one-half  of  the  asparagus  in  the  water  with  the 
veal,  and  boil  in  a  closely  covered  pot  for  three  hours,  or 
until  the  meat  is  in  pieces,  or  the  asparagus  is  dissolved. 
Strain,  and  return  to  the  pot,  and  add  the  remaining  half 
of  the  asparagus.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and 
boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Just  before  you  take  it  off 
the  fire  add  the  cream,  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  table- 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


55 


spoonful  of  corn  starch.  Boil  ten  minutes  longer,  and 
serve  with  nicely  cut  squares  of  fried  toast.  In  the  winter 
use  celery  instead  of  asparagus.  Three  bunches  will  be 
the  quantity  required  for  this  soup. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Three  pints  of  hulled  peas, 
A  knuckle  of  veal, 
Four  quarts  of  water, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  onion. 

Put  the  water  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  veal,  onion, 
salt  and  pepper.  Boil  until  well  skimmed,  add  the  peas, 
and  boil  steadily  for  two  hours.  Strain  through  a  colan- 
der, then  through  the  seive,  pressing  while  straining. 
Eeturn  to  the  sauce  pan,  and  when  it  boils,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  mixed  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  let  it  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Have  ready  in  a  well- 
heated  screen  some  fried  toast,  cut  in  dice,  and  pour  the 
soup  over  them. 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  THE  YEAST. 

Have  the  slices  of  bread  the  ordinary  thickness,  fry  in 
butter  until  brown,  then  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  cut  in 
dice. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Three  pints  of  split  peas, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pickled  pork, 

Four  quarts  of  water, 

Three  large  onions, 

Two  large  carrots, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Soak  the  peas  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  them 
on  with  the  four  quarts  of  water  and  a  little  salt.  Peel 
the  onions,  scrape  the  carrots,  and  put  them  with  the  pork 


56 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


into  the  pot  with  the  peas.  Boil  steadily,  but  not  too 
rapidly,  ioi  five  hours,  then  take  out  the  pork  and  vege- 
tables, and  press  well  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the 
fire,  put  in  the  pepper,  and  more  salt  if  necessary,  and  let 
it  boil  up  once.  Have  ready  in  a  well-heated  tureen  some 
small  pieces  of  fried  toast,  and  pour  the  soup  on  them.  A 
teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  tied  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and 
put  in  at  the  same  time  with  the  vegetables,  is  quite  an 
improvement.  Soup  of  navy  beans  can  be  made  in  the 
same  way,  only  do  not  put  in  but  a  quart  of  beans. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  tomatoes, 
One  pint  of  clear  soup, 
One  pint  of  cream, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 
A  salt  spoonful  of  soda. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  for  about  half  an  hour  with  the  soda, 
then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  saucepan;  heat 
the  clear  soup  and  cream  and  stir  into  the  tomatoes;  rub 
the  flour  and  butter  together,  add  to  the  soup;  boil  ten 
minutes;  season  and  serve  in  a  heated  tureen  with  some 
pieces  of  fried  toast  cut  in  dice.  If  made  in  the  winter, 
canned  tomatoes  may  be  used. 

TOMATO  SOUP.— NO.  2. 

One  quart  of  tomatoes, 

One  pint  of  hot  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaspoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  carrot,  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Some  small  pieces  of  fried  toast. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


57 


Put  the  tomatoes  into  a  saucepan  to  boil,  with  the  carrot 
and  celery  seed  tied  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  the  soda.  When 
it  has  boiled  twenty  minutes  take  out  the  carrot  and  celery 
seed.  Put  into  another  saucepan  the  butter,  and  when  it 
bubbles  stir  in  the  flour;  then  stir  in  the  hot  milk,  salt 
and  pepper.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  tomatoes. 
Heat  well,  but  do  not  boil.  Have  the  small  pieces  of  fried 
toast  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them.  The 
tomatoes  must  be  thoroughly  cooked  and  strained  before 
putting  them  in  the  soup,  and  they  must  be  measured 
after  they  are  cooked. 

TOMATO  SOUP.— NO.  3. 

Two  cans  of  tomatoes, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Six  butter  crackers, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Kub  the  jomatoes  through  a  sieve,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  them  come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in  the  soda  until 
it  ceases  to  foam.  Add  the  milk,  let  it  boil  for  about  five 
minutes  and  stir  all  the  time.  Take  it  off,  and  put  in  the 
crackers,  which  have  been  previously  rolled  very  fine. 
Lastly,  the  salt  and  cayenne. 

CORN  SOUP. 

Two  dozen  ears  of  corn, 

Two  quarts  of  water, 

Two  quarts  of  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste. 

Grate  the  corn,  put  the  cobs  in  the  water  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  take  out  the  cobs.  Put  in  the  grated  corn 
and  when  it  boils  add  the  two  quarts  of  milk,   Mix  the 


58 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


flour  and  butter.  Put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  soup 
to  have  it  smooth  and  keep  it  from  curdling  the  soup,  then 
stir  it  in  the  same  pan  and  let  it  boil  until  it  thickens. 
Lastly,  put  in  the  pepper  and  salt. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

One  chicken,  or  a  small  knuckle  of  veal, 

Two  quarts  of  clear  water, 

Six  large  tomatoes, 

Four  large  onions, 

One  quart  of  okra, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  allspice. 

Put  on  the  chicken,  or  veal,  in  the  water  and  let  it  boil 
up  twice,  skimming  carefully  until  all  of  the  grease  is 
taken  off ;  add  the  tomatoes,  parsley,  onions,  summer  sav- 
ory, allspice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Put  this  on  at 
breakfast  time:  at  12  o'clock,  put  in  a  separate  saucepan 
the  quart  of  okra,  cut  up  in  thin  slices.  Boil  for  an  hour, 
or  until  perfectly  tender.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner 
strain  the  soup  and  add  the  okra.  This  is  for  a  2  o'clock 
dinner;  if  for  a  late  dinner  put  on  the  meat  and  vegetables 
at  1  o'clock  and  the  okra  at  5  o'clock. 

BLACK  SOUP. 

One  veal  shank, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

Two  large  carrots, 

One  large  onion, 

Three  medium- size  potatoes, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  bunch  of  summer  savory, 

Half  a  pint  of  browned  flour, 

One  pint  of  Madeira  wine, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


59 


Cut  up  the  shank  and  put  it  on  with  the  vegetables,  salt 
and  pepper,  to  boil  slowly  for  four  hours,  skimming  con- 
stantly while  boiling;  strain,  put  into  a  clean  pot  with  the 
parsley,  summer  savory  and  browned  flour.  Boil  for  one 
hour;  take  out  the  parsley  and  summer  savory,  and,  just 
before  serving,  heat  the  wine  and  put  it  in.  Put  in  the 
soup  as  many  yelks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  thin  slices  of  lemon 
and  force-meat  balls  as  you  have  guests  to  serve,  allowing 
one  yelk,  one  force-meat  ball  and  a  slice  of  lemon  for  each 
plate. 

CHEAP  BLACK  SOUP. 

The  bones  of  a  cold  roasted  turkey, 

One  slice  of  pickled  pork, 

A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  large  carrot, 

One  large  turnip, 

One  medium-sized  onion, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  teacupful  of  cooking  wine, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  browned  flour, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

Salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Crush  the  bones,  scrape  and  cut  the  carrot  into  four 
pieces,  peel  and  cut  the  onion  into  four  pieces,  and  do  the 
same  with  the  turnip.  Put  all  into  the  soup  pot  with  the 
butter  and  pickled  pork.  Fry  until  well  browned,  then 
pour  on  the  water,  and  put  in  the  parsley  and  summer 
savory.  Boil  slowly  for  four  hours,  skimming  carefully 
all  the  time.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  soup 
pot,  put  in  the  browned  flour,  and  boil  twenty  minutes 
longer,  then  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  allspice,  and  just  be- 
fore serving,  heat  the  wine  and  stir  in.  Crush  the  yelks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  put  them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour 
the  soup  in. 


60 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  BLACK  SOUP. 

One  three-pound  beefsteak, 
Two  carrots, 
One  onion, 
Three  potatoes, 
One  bunch  of  parsley, 
Half  a  pint  of  browned  flour, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  wine, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  beefsteak  up,  and  put  it  on  with  three  quarts 
of  water.  Boil  for  four  hours,  skimming  constantly.  Peel 
and  cut  up  the  vegetables  and  put  them  into  the  soup. 
Boil  one  hour  longer,  and  strain  through  a  colander,  then 
return  to  the  soup  pot.  Put  in  the  parsley  and  browned 
flour,  boil  slowly  an  hour  longer,  heat  the  wine  and  pour 
in.  Make  some  force-meat  balls  out  of  the  meat,  and  put 
in  the  soup,  with  some  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

A  SIMPLE  MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

A  knuckle  of  veal, 
Four  calves'  feet, 
One  bunch  of  parsley. 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

Three  blades  of  mace, 

Two  large  onions, 

Twelve  whole  cloves, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  veal  and  calves'  feet  into  a  pot  with  the  water, 
parsley,  summer  savory,  mace  and  onions,  having  pre- 
viously stuck  six  of  the  cloves  firmly  in  each  onion.  Boil 
for  four  hours,  skimming  off  carefully  all  the  grease.  At 
the  end  of  that  time,  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  let  it 
stand  over  wight,   The  next  morning  skim  off  any  grease 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


61 


which  may  have  risen  on  the  top,  put  the  stock  into  a  pot, 
mix  a  small  teacupful  of  browned  flour,  boil  half  an  hour, 
and  put  in  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  A  little  allspice 
and  wine  can  also  be  added. 

FORCE  MEAT  BALLS  FOR  A  SIMPLE  MOCK  TURTLE 

SOUP. 

Half  a  pound  of  veal, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  suet, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 

The  juice  of  one  lemon, 

The  yelks  of  three  raw  eggs, 

Mace,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Pick  enough  meat  off  the  knuckle  and  feet  to  make  the 
half  pound,  and  chop  as  for  croquettes.  Mix  with  the 
bread  crumbs  the  suet  and  yelks  of  the  eggs,  then  add  the 
lemon  juice,  mace,  salt  and  cayenne  to  the  taste.  Make  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  large  hickory  nut,  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard  for  about  five  minutes.  Mash  the  yelks  of 
four  hard-boiled  eggs  and  stir  in  the  soup.  When  serving 
allow  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  and  about  two  of  the  balls  to 
each  person.  This  will  make  soup  enough  for  two  dinners 
for  a  small  family. 

CANNED  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  beef  soup, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  desertspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Two  carrots  cut  in  dice, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  ham  cut  in  dice, 

One  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

Yelks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  wine  to  the  taste, 

One  can  of  turtle. 

Stir  the  ham,  butter,  onion,  parsley  and  carrots  together 


62 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


in  a  soup  pot  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  beef 
soup,  brown  flour,  turtle,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
fifteen  minutes  and  add  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  very 
fine,  with  the  wine.  Have  some  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and 
serve  two  with  each  plate.  Have  the  tureen  heated  with 
hot  water  before  pouring  in  the  soup. 

CANNED  TURTLE  SOUP.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  vegetable  soup, 

One  can  of  turtle, 

Four  hard-boiled  eggs, 

One  teacupful  of  Madeira  wine, 

Allspice,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  browned  flour. 

Put  the  soup  in  a  sauce-pan  with  hot  water  underneath 
and  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  put  in  the  turtle,  salt, 
cayenne  pepper,  allspice  and  yelks  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
mashed  smooth,  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  cream 
the  butter  and  flour  and  stir  in  the  soup  until  it  thickens. 
"Warm  the  wine,  and  just  before  serving  the  soup  pour  it  in. 
Serve  thin  slices  of  lemon,  with  the  seeds  taken  out,  in 
each  plate.  Have  the  tureen  verv  hot  before  pouring  in 
the  soup. 

TURTLE  BEAN  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  turtle  beans, 

Three  quarts  of  water, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pickled  pork, 

Yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

A  teacupful  of  Madeira  wine, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Soak  the  beans  all  night  in  one  quart  of  water,  and  in 
the  morning  add  the  other  three  quarts,  and  the  pork. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  63 

Boil  steadily,  but  not  too  hard,  until  the  beans  are  per- 
fectly soft,  which  will  take  about  four  hours.  Mash 
through  the  colander,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  taking 
care  to  get  all  the  beans  through,  except  the  hulls.  Re- 
turn to  the  pot,  thicken  with  the  flour  and  butter,  and  let 
it  boil  up  once.  Chop  the  yelks  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  as  many  thin  slices  of  lemon  as  may  be  required,  allow- 
ing one  slice  for  each  person.  Put  these  into  a  well-heated 
tureen,  and  just  before  taking  the  soup  off  the  fire,  pour 
in  the  wine,  and  add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the 
taste.  Be  sure  to  take  the  seeds  out  of  the  lemons,  and  the 
pork  out,  before  mashing  the  beans. 


TURTLE  BEAN  SOUP.— No.  c. 

A  knuckle  of  veal, 

One  medium-sized  onion, 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  beans, 

One  large  carrot, 

Three  quarts  of  water, 

Wine,  salt,  and  pepper,  to  the  taste, 

One  bunch  of  parsley. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night;  the  next  morning  put  them 
into  a  soup  pot  with  the  veal,  and  let  them  boil  one  hour. 
Peel  and  quarter  the  onions,  scrape  and  cut  up  the  carrot, 
which,  with  the  parsley,  put  into  the  soup.  Boil  two 
hours  longer,  pour  through  a  colander,  then  through  a 
sieve,  and  return  to  the  soup  pot.  Cream  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  flour  with  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter,  stir  in  the  soup, 
let  it  boil  ten  minutes;  then  add  the  wine,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Have  in  heated  tureen  some  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
and  yelks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  allowing  one  of  each  to  every 
plate,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 


64 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CALF'S-HEAD  SOUP. 

One  pelted  calf's  head, 
A  knuckle  of  veal, 
A  pint  of  turtle  beans, 
Three  gallons  of  water. 

Soak  the  head  in  water  over  night,  putting  in  a  cook- 
ing-spoonful of  salt  in  the  water.  Take  out  the  brains 
and  put  them  in  another  pan  of  salted  water,  changing  the 
water  until  the  blood  is  all  drawn  out.  The  next  morning, 
put  in  the  calf's  head  and  veal,  or  a  set  of  calf's  feet,  into 
the  three  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  six  or  seven  hours, 
until  the  head  is  perfectly  tender;  then  take  it  out  of  the 
water;  remove  the  bone,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  them  back  into  the  soup.  Season  with  black- 
pepper,  salt,  sweet  marjoram  and  summer  savory,  to  the 
taste.  Put  the  Mexican  beans  also  to  soak  over  night, 
and  boil  until  thoroughly  done.  Then  pass  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  the  soup.  Make  egg  balls  with  the  yelks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs;  one  raw  egg,  and  flour  enough  to 
mix  them  with.  Roll  out  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut.  Take 
two  pounds  of  cooked  fillet  of  veal ;  chop  very  fine,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  sweet  majoram,  and  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
one  egg.  Mix  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  make 
into  small  balls  with  a  little  flour.  Fry  in  boiling  lard, 
a  cinnamon  brown.  Put  this  in  the  ice-chest  with  the  soup, 
and  fry  the  balls  as  you  wish  each  day.  When  serving,  put 
some  slices  of  lemon  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over 
them,  adding  the  force  meat-balls,  egg-halls,  and  wine  to 
the  taste;  also,  the  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed 
fine.  If  you  do  not  use  the  black  beans,  brown  a  little 
flour  or  sugar  to  color  the  soup  with.  Put  the  brains  in  a 
cloth,  boil  till  tender.  Mash  the  yelks  of  two  hard-boilsd 
eggs,  and  mix  with  the  brains,  adding  black  pepper  and 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


65 


salt.  Boil  the  calf's  tongue  until  tender,  and  put  the 
brains  in  spoonfuls  around  the  tongue,  alternating  with 
a  slice  of  lemon.    This  will  make  a  nice  side  dish. 

CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP.— No.  2. 

One  calf's  head, 

Six  quarts  of  clear  water, 

Two  bunches  of  parsley, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  pint  of  sherry  wine, 

Salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  onion. 

Boil  the  head  until  the  meat  drops  off  of  the  bones, 
which  will  take  about  four  hours.  Take  out  the  bones  and 
chop  the  meat  very  fine.  Take  the  brains  for  the  force- 
meat balls.  Also,  chop  very  fine  the  onion  and  parsley, 
and  mix  with  the  meat,  adding  cayenne  and  black  pepper, 
salt,  spices,  summer  savory,  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter 
and  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  just 
before  serving  heat  the  wine  and  stir  it  in.  Serve  a  slice 
of  lemon,  yelk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  and  a  force  meat  ball 
in  each  plate;  or,  mash  the  yelks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs 
very  smooth  and  stir  in  the  soup. 

FORCE-MEAT  BALLS  FOR  CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP. 

Half  a  pound  of  well-cooked  veal, 
One  calf's  brains, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Chop  the  brains  and  veal  as  for  mince  meat;  mix  with 
the  eggs,  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg.     Flour  a 
board,  drop  a  small  piece  here  and  there,  roll  into  balls  in 
the  flour,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.    Throw  them 
5 


66 


UHE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a  dark  brown.  Drain,  an  when 
cool  put  into  the  soup.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  fine  bread 
crumbs  can  be  used  in  mixing  the  balls  if  desired. 

GUMBO  SOUP. 

Two  large  chickens, 

Two  quarts  of  okra, 

Three  large  onions, 

One  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Three  quarts  of  water, 

One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory. 

Skin  and  quarter  the  chickens,  cut  up  the  onions,  and 
put  all  into  a  saucepan  with  three  slices  of  pickled  pork 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Fry  until  the  chickens 
are  a  light  brown,  and  put  all  into  a  soup-pot,  adding  the 
allspice,  parsley,  summer  savory;  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 
the  taste.  Let  this  boil  slowly  from  ten  o'clock,  skimming 
frequently  0  At  twelve  o'clock  put  on  the  okra,  whole,  in 
a  separate  pot,  with  water  enough  to  cover  well;  boil  for  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner,  take  the 
chicken  out  of  the  soup;  pick  out  the  bones,  and  cut  the 
meat  in  small  pieces.  Put  back  into  the  pot,  and  add  the 
okra.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  This  soup  can  be 
made  in  the  winter  out  of  canned  okra  and  tomatoes.  To 
the  above  quantity  of  soup  two  cans  must  be  used.  This 
quantity  is  for  a  large  family.  Half  the  quantity  can  be 
mado  if  preferred. 

s:mple  chicken  soup. 

One  coffeecupful  of  cream, 

One  teacupful  of  well-boiled  rice. 

One  blade  of  mace, 

A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  corn  starch. 

When  boiling  a  pair  of  chickens  for  dinner,  put  in  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


water  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed. 
After  the  chickens  are  done,  take  out  two  quarts  of  the 
water;  skim  well,  and  add  the  cream,  or  rich  milk;  then 
the  rice  and  the  dessertspoonful  of  corn  starch;  season  to 
the  taste.  It  will  require  about  three  quarts  of  water  for 
a  pair  of  chickens. 

CRAB  GUMBO  SOUP. 

One  knuckle  of  veal, 
Three  good-sized  onions, 
A  quarter  of  a  peck  of  okra, 
Six  large  crabs, 
Two  gallons  of  boiling  water, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  up  the  onions,  slice  the  okra,  and  fry  them  in  butter 
with  pepper  and  salt.  When  browned,  put  all  into  a  pot 
with  the  boiling  water,  and  when  half  cooked,  divide  the 
crabs,  fry  them  in  butter  and  stir  them  in.  Let  this 
simmer  for  five  hours;  then  it  will  be  done.  If  wanted  in 
the  winter  use  the  canned  okra,  one  quart,  and  three  pints 
of  oysters  in  the  place  of  the  crabs.    Serve  quickly. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER  SOUP. 

Three  bunches  of  salsify, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

One  quart  of  rich  milk, 

Two  pounded  crackers, 

A  piece  of  codfish  the  size  of  a  cent. 

Scrape  the  salsify  and  cut  it  up  fine;  boil  it  three  hours 
in  four  quarts  of  water;  put  the  codfish  in  and  boil  an 
hour;  boil  the  other  ingredients  half  an  hour.  Eub 
the  flour  and  butter  together  very  smooth,  stir  in,  add  the 
crackers  and  serve. 


68 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


OYSTER  GUMBO. 

One  large  chicken, 

One  can  of  oysters, 

Half  a  pound  of  boiled  ham, 

Two  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

One  bunch  of  summer  savory, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  tablespoonful  of  filee  powder, 

Salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Divide  the  chicken,  skin  and  flour  each  piece  well;  cut 
the  ham  in  dice,  and,  with  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
fry  until  brown.  Then  pour  on  it  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  the  bunches  of  summer  savory  and  parsley  tied  to- 
gether, salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Let  this  boil  slowly  for 
four  hours.  Take  out  the  summer  savory  and  parsley,  pull 
the  chicken  to  pieces,  return  it  to  the  pot,  and  about  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving,  heat  the  oysters  and  their  liquor,  and 
add  to  the  soup.  While  they  are  simmering  very  slowly,  take 
out  a  tea  cupful  of  the  soup  and  mix  with  the  filee  powder. 
When  perfectly  smooth  put  it  in  the  soup;  let  it  boil  up 
once  and  it  will  be  done.  Pour  into  a  heated  tureen  and 
serve  with  some  nicely-boiled  rice  in  another  dish. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  oysters, 

One  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch, 

Mace,  salt,  and  white  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  pick  off  any 
pieces  of  shell  remaining  on  them.  If  cream  is  not  to  be 
had,  use  milk  and  two  cooking-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Put 
the  milk  into  one  sauce-pan  and  the  liquor  into  another. 
Let  each  boil,  and  skim  the  liquor  while  boiling;  after  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


69 


milk  has  boiled  about  five  minutes  stir  in  the  liquor;  then 
season  with  the  mace,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Put 
the  corn  starch  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  the  milk 
and  liquor  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Lastly, 
put  in  the  oysters;  stir  them  gently,  and  when  the  leaves 
curl,  they  will  be  cooked  enough.  If  crackers  are  preferred 
to  corn  starch,  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  powder. 
Some  do  not  like  mace,  in  that  case  leave  it  out. 

CREAM  SAGO  SOUP. 

One  large  old  chicken, 

Eight  whole  white  pepper  grains, 

One  large  blade  of  mace, 

One  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk, 

The  yelks  of  two  raw  eggs, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  chicken  on  with  about  three  quarts  of  water, 
the  pepper  grains,  mace  and  salt.  Boil  until  the  chicken 
falls  to  pieces;  strain  and  skim.  To  every  two  quarts  of 
stock,  take  three  ounces  of  sago;  wash  it  in  hot  water, 
and  boil  it  in  the  soup  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs  into  half  a  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk.  Pour 
it  gradually  into  the  soup,  taking  care  not  to  allow  the 
soup  to  boil  after  the  sago  is  put  in,  and  stir  all  the  time 
while  pouring  in. 

CREAM  CELERY  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  chicken  soup, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  corn  starch, 
Three  heads  of  celery, 
One  quart  of  milk  or  cream. 

Take  the  white  part  of  the  celery  and  chop  it  as  fine 
as  possible.  Put  it  to  boil  with  the  milk,  and  let  it  cook 
until  it  can  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve.    If  too  thick,  after 


70 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


it  has  been  rubbed  through,  add  a  little  more  milk.  Ee- 
turn  it  to  the  pot,  and  add  the  chicken  soup.  When  it 
has  boiled  about  ten  minutes,  rub  the  butter  and  corn 
starch  together,  and  stir  in  until  it  thickens;  then  season 
to  the  taste  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 

CHICKEN  SOUP  FOR  THE  SICK. 

One  large  chicken, 
Three  pints  of  cold  water, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice, 
One  bunch  of  parsley, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  four  parts,  and  wash  in  cold 
water;  put  the  pieces  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  three 
pints  of  water,  a  little  salt,  the  rice  and  parsley.  Let  it 
boil  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  skimming  constantly. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  parsley,  and  pour  the  soup  into  a 
bowl. 

WHITE  CONSOMME  OF  CHICKEN. 

Two  large,  fat  chickens, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

One  blade  of  rnace, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Salt,  and  white  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  each  chicken  into  four  parts;  put  them  into  cold 
water  to  cleanse  them  entirely  from  the  blood,  and  in 
fifteen  minutes  drain  and  put  them  into  the  pot.  Tie  the 
celery  seed  in  a  thin  piece  of  muslin;  add  the  mace  and 
parsley;  pour  on  three  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  gently  for 
two  hours,  if  young;  three,  if  old.  Skim  constantly,  and 
when  they  are  tender,  strain  through  a  sieve.  This  will 
answer  also  for  white  sauces,  and  should  be  used  instead  of 
water  for  filling  them  up. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


71 


PUREE  OF  CHICKEN. 

One  large  chicken, 

One  small  knuckle  of  veal, 

Three  quarts  of  water, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  blade  of  mace, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

A  coffeecupful  of  boiling  cream, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  chicken  and  veal  on  with  three  quarts  of  water, 
together  with  the  rice,  parsley,  mace  and  the  celery  seed, 
tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Boil  gently  until  the  chicken  is 
thoroughly  done,  taking  care  to  skim  well  all  the  time  it 
is  boiling.  Take  out  the  veal,  bone,  cut,  and  pound 
the  chicken  in  a  mortar;  moisten  it  with  a  little  of  the 
stock,  and  pass  it  through  the  colander.  Strain  the 
stock,  pressing  the  rice  through  the  sieve.  Keturn  the 
chicken  to  the  stock,  season,  and  just  before  serving,  pour 
in  the  cream.    Heat  thoroughly,  but  don't  boil. 

WHITE  SOUP. 

Two  large,  fat  chickens, 

Five  quarts  clear  water, 

One  teacupful  of  rice, 

Two  small  onions, 

Eight  whole  cloves, 

One  large  carrot, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

One  pint  chopped  celery, 

Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  chickens  until  thoroughly  done,  take  them  out 
and  use  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  for  the  stock.  Skim 


72 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


off  all  of  the  grease,  put  in  the  carrot,  celery,  parsley, 
salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  onions,  with  four  whole  cloves 
stuck  firmly  in  each  onion.  Boil  until  the  rice  is  soft 
enough  to  thicken  the  soup  without  using  flour.  Strain 
the  soup,  grind  the  chicken  very  fine,  mash  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs  until  smooth,  and  mix  with  the  chicken.  Put 
this  in  the  soup,  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes.  Just 
before  sending  the  soup  to  the  table,  boil  the  cream  and 
pour  in.  Fry  pieces  of  toast  in  butter,  put  in  the  tureen, 
and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Fifty  clams, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
One  pint  of  cream, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 
Two  quarts  of  hot  water. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  clams  and  put  it  in  the 
saucepan.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  skimming  well  while 
boiling.  Add  two  quarts  of  hot  water,  the  butter  and 
parsley;  then  the  clams,  chopped  quite  fine;  lastly  the 
cream,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste.  Boil  five 
minutes  longer,  and  serve.  When  adding  the  clams,  be 
careful  not  to  let  the  soup  curdle. 

TO  BURN  SUGAR  FOR  COLORING  SOUPS. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
A  tablespoonf  ul  of  water. 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  saucepan,  with  the  water.  Stir 
constantly  over  the  fire,  until  it  has  a  rich  dark-brown 
color,  taking  great  care  not  to  let  it  burn  or  get  black. 
Then  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  water.  Let  it  boil  five  min- 
utes longer;  cool,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  piece  of 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


73 


muslin.  Put  it  in  a  bottle,  cork  tightly,  and  use  a  little 
at  the  time  of  coloring  soups. 

SOUP  A  LA  REINE. 

Three  fat  chickens, 

One  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs, 

Four  hard-boiled  eggs, 

One  quart  of  cream, 

One  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

Three  quarts  of  clear  water, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  on  the  chickens  with  the  water,  celery  seed  and 
parsley.  Boil  about  two  hours.  Take  out  the  chickens 
and  strain  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  through  a  cloth. 
Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  water.  Take  away  the 
skin,  gristle,  bones  and  fat,  leaving  nothing  but  the  lean 
of  the  chicken.  Grind  it  and  make  a  paste  of  it  and  the 
yelks  of  the  four  hard  boiled  eggs.  Press  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  stir  into  the  stock,  and  let  it  simmer  for  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  well  all  the  time.  Then  pour  into  a  well 
heated  tureen,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  Spanish  chestnuts, 

Two  quarts  of  chicken  stock, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Salt,  nutmeg  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Shell  the  chestnuts,  put  them  in  a  pan  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Let  them  scald  until  the  inner  skin  can  be 
taken  off.  Put  them  on  a  sieve,  to  allow  the  hot  water  to 
drain  off,  and  while  draining,  pour  on  some  cold  water,  so 
as  the  skins  can  be  removed  with  the  hand.  When  they 
are  well  skinned,  put  them  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the 
chicken  stock,  and  let  them  simmer  until  perfectly  ten- 


74 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


der.  Then  mash  through  the  sieve  into  the  same  stock. 
Season  with  nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  underneath,  stirring 
all  the  time  until  it  begins  to  simmer ;  then  pour  in  the 
pint  of  cream,  and  after  stirring  five  minutes  longer, 
serve. 

LOBSTER  SOUP. 

Two  pounds  of  f reshf  lobster,  or  ono  can  of  preserved,  weighing 

two  pounds, 
One  quart  of  milk, 
One  quart  of  boiling  water, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 
One  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Mace  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  saucepan,  with  hot  water  underneath. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  corn  starch,  previously 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  In  the  meantime,  cut  the 
lobster  in  very  small  pieces;  put  it  in  the  pint  of  water 
with  the  seasoning  and  butter,  and  boil  until  the  lobster 
is  done.  Strain,  and  pour  into  the  thickened  milk. 
Pound  the  coral  very  fine,  and  add  to  the  soup,  which 
will  give  it  a  pretty  pink  color. 


FISH 


TO  BOIL  A  RED  SNAPPER. 

One  nice  fresh  red  snapper, 
The  juice  of  three  lemons, 
Salt  and  black  pepper. 

Wash  the  fish,  clean  and  wipe  dry,  then  rub  the  lemon 
uice  in  it,  and  sprinkle  over  that  some  salt  and  black 
Depper.  Put  into  a  cloth,  then  into  a  fish  kettle;  cover  it 
with  hot  water,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt;  let  it  boil 
gently,  skimming  carefully  while  boiling.  If  it  is  a  large 
fish,  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  if  a  medium  size, 
half  an  hour  will  do.  If  lemons  are  not  to  be  had,  a  half 
pint  of  vinegar  put  in  the  water,  when  the  fish  is  put  on 
to  boil,  will  do.  This  rule  can  be  observed  with  all  fish 
to  be  boiled.  Have  the  dish  hot,  and  garnish  the  fish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  thin  slices  of  lemon.  Serve 
with  either  a  hot  or  cold  sauce. 

TO  BOIL  PIKE. 

One  pike, 

Twelve  medium-sized  oysters, 
Half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  saltspoonful  of  summer  savory, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Take  out  the  gills  and  wash  thoroughly ;  chop  the 
oysters,  mix  with  them  the  bread  crumbs,  butter,  yelks  of 

75 


76  THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

the  eggs,  summer  savory,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon- 
peel,  salt,  and  black  pepper;  stuff  the  fish  with  this,  sew  it 
up,  then  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  and  put  it  into  a  fish  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  the 
water,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt.  If  the  fish  is  of 
medium  size,  it  will  be  done  in  half  an  hour;  if  a  large 
one,  it  will  take  an  hour.  Garnish  the  fish  alternately 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  small  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
serve  with  egg  sauce. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  DRESS  AND  BAKE  FISH. 

One  good-sized  white  fish  or  haddock, 
One  quart  of  milk, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
Two  teaspoon fuls  of  chopped  parsley, 
One  medium- sized  chopped  onion, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Boil  the  fish  until  done,  take  out  the  bones,  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Heat  the 
milk,  cream  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  to  the 
milk.  Boil  until  thick.  When  cool,  stir  in  the  eggs, 
parsley  and  onion.  Put  in  the  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish 
and  a  layer  of  the  sauce,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Cover  the  top  with  stale  bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of 
butter.    Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

CREAM  FISH. 

Six  pounds  of  fish, 

One  small  white  onion, 

One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Boil  the  fish  until  done,  then  bone  it.    Tie  in  a  thin 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  77 

muslin  bag,  the  summer  savory  and  chopped  onion.  Boil 
one  quart  of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  the 
bag  in  and  let  the  milk  boil  eight  minutes,  then  take  it 
out.  Put  the  flour  and  butter  together,  stir  in  the  milk 
and  boil  three  minutes.  Now  arrange  in  a  baking  dish  a 
layer  of  fish,  a  little  salt,  then  another  layer  of  fish  and 
some  salt;  lastly,  pour  the  milk  over,  cover  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  until  a 
i  nice  brown.    Cream  will  be  delicious  if  convenient. 

TO  BAKE  SHAD. 

One  large  shad, 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

The  yelk  of  one  raw  egg, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Clean  the  fish  nicely,  and  if  it  be  a  male  remove  the 
back  bone;  if  a  female  remove  the  roe.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  the  above  ingredients,  and  put  it  into  the  cavities  made 
by  removing  the  back  bone  or  roe;  put  some  egg  and  fine 
bread  crumbs  on  top  of  the  fish,  and  lay  it  full  length  in 
a  pan,  with  about  a  pint  of  hot  water;  baste  well  and  let  it 
bake  gently  for  about  an  hour.  Boil  the  roe,  and  garnish 
the  dish  alternately  with  slices  of  it,  small  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley, and  thin  slices  of  lemon.  This  can  be  eaten  without 
sauce,  or  with  a  tartare  sauce. 

FISH  IN  SHELLS. 

One  white  fish  weighing  three  pounds, 
One  pint  of  sweet  thick  cream, 
One  cooking- spoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Extract  of  celery, 
Salt  and  pepper. 


78 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Let  the  fish  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  skin  and 
bone  it,  and  pick  it  very  fine.  Put  the  cream  into  a  sauce- 
pan; rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  then  stir  into  the 
cream  until  it  thickens.  Add  extract  of  celery,  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste,  and  mix  with  the  fish.  Fill  the  shells, 
put  on  the  top  of  each  some  stale  bread-crumbs  and  small 
pieces  of  butter,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  for  about  ten 
minutes. 

TO  COOK  CODFISH. 

Two  pounds  of  codfish, 
Two  pounds  of  mashed  potatoes, 
Four  large  boiled  onions, 
One  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs, 
Half  a  pound  of  pickled  pork, 
One  tablespoonf  ul  of  mixed  mustard. 

Soak  the  fish  all  night,  and  wash  it  off  in  the  morning. 
Put  it  on  in  cold  water  to  simmer  for  about  a  half  or 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  as  it  must  be  very  tender.  Pick 
to  pieces,  chop  the  onions  very  fine,  and  mix  with  the 
potatoes ;  cut  the  pork  in  thin  slices,  fry  until  the  grease 
is  out,  then  take  pieces  out,  and  mix  the  grease  slowly 
with  the  potato  and  codfish,  adding  the  spoonf  ul  of  mixed 
mustard.  Lastly,  chop  the  eggs  and  add.  Shape  as  an 
omelette,  and  fry  in  butter  until  well  browned.  Serve 
with  a  rich  drawn  butter  with  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped 
in  it,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Worcestershire  sauce 
beaten  in  while  boiling. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

One  pound  of  codfish, 
One  pound  and  a  half  of  mashed  potato, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
The  yelks  of  two  raw  eggs. 

Skin  the  fish  ;  take  out  the  bones ;  weigh,  and  soak 
overnight.    In  the  morning  change  the  water,  and  pour 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


79 


over  it  enough  hot  water  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stand  on  the 
range  where  it  will  keep  warm  for  about  ten  minutes; 
then  change  the  water  again,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes. 
Pick  and  chop  the  fish  very  fine  ;  mash  the  potatoes  while 
hot,  and  mix  with  the  fish.  Add  the  butter  and  yelks  of 
the  eggs,  into  which  you  have  previously  stirred  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard.  Make  into  small  round 
cakes  or  balls,  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  in  lard  and  butter 
mixed. 

BAKED  SALMON  OR  LOBSTER. 

A  two-pound  can  of  salmon  or  lobster, 

Yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 

A  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  milk, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

First  make  a  thick  drawn  butter  of  the  milk,  butter 
and  flour.  If  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  should  not  make  it 
quite  thick,  add  a  little  more.  Pick  out  all  of  the  bones 
from  the  salmon,  and  skin.  Mash  the  hard-boiled  eggs 
very  smooth,  and  mix  with  the  drawn  butter.  Then  add 
the  fish,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder.  Put  into  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  it  cracker 
powder  enough  to  cover  well,  and  a  few  pieces  of  butter. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  This  is  delicious  for  supper,  or  is 
very  pretty  served  in  shells  for  luncheon.  Either  Califor- 
nia, or  Kennebec  salmon  will  answer. 

TO  FRY  SMELTS. 

Seven  smelts, 

One  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
The  yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Do  not  wash  the  gmelts  any  more  than  is  necessary. 


80 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Cut  off  the  fins,  wipe  them  with  a  towel,  and  sprinkle  a 
little  flour  overe  ach  one.  Melt  the  butter,  and  beat  it  in 
the  eggs.  Dip  each  smelt  into  the  eggs,  then  into  the 
bread  crumbs,  and  drop  them  in  boiling  lard.  Let  them 
fry  gently  until  a  light  brown,  and  when  done,  dish  them 
up  on  a  napkin  and  serve  with  tartare  sauce. 


A  NICE  WAY  TO  FRY  FILLETS  OF  FISH. 

The  juice  of  four  lemons, 

One  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  salad  oil, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Place  some  nice  fillets  of  any  kind  of  fish  in  a  crock; 
mix  the  above  ingredients  well  together,  and  pour  over  the 
fillets.  Turn  them  over  now  and  then,  and  when  wanted, 
drain,  wipe  well,  dip  each  piece  in  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  any  kind  of  fish  sauce.  If 
this  should  be  prepared  in  summer,  keep  the  crock  in  the 
ice-chest,  and  only  prepare  a  small  quantity  at  the  time. 

TO  BROIL  SPANISH  MACKEREL. 

One  Spanish  mackerel, 
The  juice  of  one  lemon, 
Butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Split  the  mackerel  down  the  back,  rub  it  over  with  a 
little  salad  oil;  then  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  black  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  it  on  the  gridiron  before  a  good  fire  and 
brown  both  sides  nicely.  When  done,  squeeze  the  lemon 
juice  on  it  and  garnish  tastefully  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Serve  as  it  is,  or  with  a  tartare  sauce. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


81 


TO  FRY  FISH. 

A  five  pound  fish, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 

Three  eggs. 

Take  a  five-pound  fish,  and  skin  it  with  a  very  sharp 
knife.  Take  out  the  bones,  and  cut  in  pieces  about  three 
inches  square.  Beat  the  eggs;  season  to  the  taste,  with 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Dip 
each  piece  of  fish  in  the  eggs;  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

HOW  TO  SERVE  IT. 

Put  potato  croquettes  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  and 
arrange  the  squares  of  the  fish  around  them.  Garnish  the 
dish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  small  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Serve  with  tartare  sauce,  in  a  gravy  boat.  This  makes  a 
delicious  dish  for  breakfast,  or  luncheon. 

TO  STEW  OYSTERS. 

One  can  of  oysters, 

One  pint  of  cream, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

Black  pepper  and  salt,  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  into  a  sauce  pan,  on 
the  fire.  Heat,  but  do  not  boil.  Pour  off  the  liquor  into 
another  sauce  pan,  and,  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  the  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  the  cream,  the  flour,  and  then 
stir  it  into  the  liquor  until  it  thickens.  While  it  is  boil- 
ing, add  the  oysters,  and  let  them  remain  on  the  fire  for 
about  three  minutes,  then  serve.  Should  crackers  be  pre- 
ferred to  flour,  roll  some  very  fine,  and  put  in  a  dessert- 
spoonful and  a  half.  Milk  can  be  used,  if  cream  is  not  to 
be  had,  but  the  latter  is  much  more  delicious. 


82 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  BROIL  OYSTERS. 

Four  dozen  large  oysters, 
A  quarter  pound  of  butter, 
Salt,  and  black  pepper 

Drain,  and  wipe  the  oysters.  Place  them  carefully  on 
the  wire  broiler;  have  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  hot  water  underneath.  Broil  the  oysters  before 
the  fire,  turning  the  broiler  to  have  them  nicely  browned; 
and  as  you  broil  them,  put  them  in  the  butter,  until  all  are 
broiled,  and  serve  quickly  in  a  heated  dish.  This  quantity 
can  be  reduced,  or  increased,  according  to  the  number  to 
be  served. 

TO  GRIDDLE  OYSTERS. 

Select  the  largest  and  finest  oysters,  drain  the  liquor 
from  them.  Have  the  griddle  hot,  and  butter  it  well. 
Lay  the  oysters  on  it  in  single  layers,  and  when  browned 
on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other,  to  brown  too.  While  they 
are  cooking,  a  small  piece  of  butter  maybe  added  ;  this,  com- 
bined with  the  juice  given  out  by  the  oyster,  forms  a 
brown  skin.  When  done  to  a  nice  brown,  remove  both 
oysters  and  skin  with  a  tin  cake  turner  ;  put  them  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  over  them  some  plain  melted  butter,  sea- 
soned with  a  little  black  and  cayenne  pepper. 

TO  FRY  OYSTERS. 

The  oysters  should  always  be  handled  with  a  spoon  ;  a 
flat  spoon  is  preferable.  Some  prefer  olive  oil  to  lard,  but 
pure  sweet  lard  is  the  best. 

Drain  the  oysters  thoroughly  in  a  colander,  then  roll 
them  in  cracker  powder,  not  using  any  meal  or  flour. 
Let  the  oyster  be  rolled  gently  with  the  hand  until  it  will 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


83 


not  recieve  any  more  of  the  powder.  Have  the  very  best 
lard,  and  when  it  has  come  to  a  good  boil  in  the  frying 
pan,  and  is  in  sufficient  quantity  to  entirely  cover  the 
oysters,  put  them  in  with  the  spoon,  anc  cook  them  until 

a  nice  brown.    Serve  immediately. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  FRY  OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters  in  a  colander,  then  lay  them  between 
soft  towels  to  dry.  Beat  up  some  eggs,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  oysters  you  intend  frying  ;  first  roll  the  oyster 
gently  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  cracker  powder,  and  put  them 
on  a  board  to  dry  for  about  half  an  hour.  Heat  the  skillet 
well,  put  in  a  little  lard  and  a  few  oysters  at  the  time, 
turning  them  carefully,  as  you  would  cakes,  until  they  are 
a  nice  cinnamon  brown.    Serve  immediately. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Prepare  the  oysters  as  in  the  recipe  for  scalloped  oysters 
No.  2.  Make  the  patties  of  puff  paste;  bake  them  until 
the  pastry  begins  to  brown,  and  when  done,  put  three 
oysters  in  each  pattie,  with  a  little  of  the  sauce. 

LOBSTER  CHOPS. 

A  three-pound  lobster, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

One  large  teacupful  of  rich  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 

Two  raw  eggs. 

Take  out  the  lobster,  put  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
boil  for  about  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cool,  select  the 
meat  from  the  shell  and  chop  it  very  fine.  Mix  the  parsley 
and  onion  with  the  meat,  and  season  to  the  taste.  Put 


84 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


the  butter  into  the  frying-pan,  and  when  melted,  stir  in 
the  flour  until  it  is  slightly  browned,  then  add  the  cream, 
or  rich  milk,  and  the  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir  gently 
over  the  fire  until  smooth  and  the  consistency  of  rich 
cream.  Season  to  the  taste  with  salt,  and  put  in  the 
"Worcestershire  sauce;  then  add  the  lobster.  Let  this 
come  to  a  slow  boil  and  stir  gently  for  three  minutes. 
Pour  on  a  dish,  and  when  cold,  shape  as  chops,  and  stick 
in  the  claw  to  represent  the  bone.  Dip  them  in  raw  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs;  put  them  into  a  deep  pan  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard  until  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  with  a  sauce. 
Don't  put  the  claws  into  the  chops  until  they  have  been 
rolled  in  the  bread  crumbs. — Mr.  Morris  Hopkins,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

SAUCE  FOR  LOBSTER  CHOPS. 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

A  piece  of  onion  the  size  of  a  nutmeg, 

A  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

A  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  cream  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  piece  of  onion, 
and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  butter  and  flour.  Rub 
until  perfectly  smooth,  and  stir  slowly  for  five  minutes. 
Take  out  the  onion,  put  in  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt 
and  pepper;  then  serve  very  hot  with  the  chops. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

One  quart  of  large  oysters, 
One  coffeecupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
Mace,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Drain  and  dry  the  oysters  well.  First  put  in  a  layer  of 
oysters,  then  a  little  mace,  salt  and  pepper,  and  bread 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  85 

crumbs;  on  top  of  the  crumbs,  arrange  nicely  some  small 
pieces  of  butter.  Then  another  layer  of  oysters,  and  so 
on,  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  the  last  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  oysters, 
One  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
Mace,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  on  the  milk  or  cream,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
season  to  the  taste.  Put  in  the  cornstarch  and  butter,  and 
stir  in  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  oysters;  and  when 
they  curl,  pour  them  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  on  top,  and  cut  up  some  small  pieces  of  butter 
with  them.  Bake  ten  minutes.  If  not  thick  enough  be- 
fore pouring  in  the  dish,  add  a  teaspoonful  more  of  corn- 
starch. The  cream  after  it  is  cooked,  should  be  the 
consistency  of  boiled  custard.  These  will  be  very  nice 
baked  in  shells. 

A  NICE  WAY  OF  PREPARING  OYSTERS. 

One  hundred  o}Tsters, 
Two  teacupfuls  of  oyster  liquor, 
One  teacupful  of  cream, 
Two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste. 

Drain  the  oysters  well,  take  two  teacupfuls  of  the  liquor, 
boil  it,  and  skim  for  five  minutes;  then  put  in  the  oysters 
and  let  them  boil  up  once,  and  then  take  them  out  of  the 
liquor.    Cream  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  stir 


86 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


into  the  liquor  until  it  thickens.  Put  back  the  oysters 
and  let  them  come  to  another  boil,,  and  just  before  taking 
them  up  add  the  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

A  FRICASSE  OF  LOBSTER. 

Two  large  lobsters, 

One  pint  of  cream, 

The  juice  of  one  lemon, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Parboil  the  lobsters,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Take  out  all  of  the  meat,  and  the  coral;  cut  the  meat  into 
small  pieces,  and  with  the  coral,  put  into  a  sauce-pan,  and 
pour  on  the  cream.  Cover,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  the 
same  time  it  took  to  cook  the  lobster;  then  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  curry  powder  to  the  taste.  Simmer  for  five 
minutes  and  serve  very  hot. 

LOBSTER  BALLS. 

One  large  hen  lobster, 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

Curry  powder,  salt  and  cayenne  to  the  taste, 

Two  eges. 

Parboil  the  lobster,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  coral,  and  pound  well  in  a  mortar; 
mix  with  it  the  bread  crumbs,  curry,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  the  two  eggs.  Shape  into  balls  the  size  of  a 
small  potato;  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  a  nice  brown  in 
hot  lard,  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

TO  DEVIL  CRABS. 

One  dozen  crabs, 
Inside  of  a  baker's  loaf  of  bread, 
Yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
Parsley  and  Worcestershire  to  the  taste, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


87 


Boil  the  crabs  twenty  minutes,  then  dissect.  Chop  the 
parsley  very  fine,  mash  the  eggs  smooth,  and  mix  all  with 
the  meat,  sauce,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Wash  the  shells, 
fill  and  dip  each  one  in  egg,  roll  in  pounded  crackers,  and 
fry  a  nice  brown. 

TO  SELECT  CRABS. 

Select  the  thickest  and  heaviest  crabs,  which  are  gen- 
erally considered  the  best,  though  the  medium-sized  are 
the  most  delicate.  When  perfectly  fresh,  the  shell  should 
be  a  bright  red,  and  the  joints  of  the  legs  stiff.  Boil  them 
as  you  would  lobsters,  only  boil  them  longer. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  CRABS. 

Two  dozen  crabs, 

Three  pints  of  rich  milk, 

Three  shallow  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

A  salt-spoonful  of  curry  powder, 

Worcestershire  sauce, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Six  ounces  of  butter. 

Boil  the  crabs  twenty-five  minutes,  pour  off  the  water, 
and  when  cool  enough,  pick  the  meat  carefully  from  the 
shell.  Let  the  milk  boil  slowly,  mix  the  butter  and  flour 
together  until  perfectly  smooth,  put  it  in  the  boiling  milk, 
and  stir  gently  to  prevent  burning,  for  five  or  ten  minutes. 
Season  to  the  taste  with  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt, 
cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  the  curry  powder.  This 
dressing  must  be  made  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Put  the  crab  meat  into  a  bowl,  mix  the  dressing  with  it,  a 
little  at  a  time,  until  it  is  all  mixed.  Chop  the  parsley 
very  fine,  sprinkle  it  in  the  bowl,  and  stir  all  together. 
Wipe  each  shell  with  a  piece  of  onion,  fill  them  with  the 


88 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


w<5of ;,  put  bread-crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter  over 

each  shell,  and  bake  for  about  fifteen  minutes. 

TO  FRY  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS. 

Six  sof  t-sliell  crabs, 
One  teacupful  of  milk, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
One  egg, 
Salt  and  pepper. 

The  crabs  must  be  perfectly  fresh.  Wipe  them  dry; 
sprinkle  over  them  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  egg 
and  milk  together;  roll  the  crabs,  first  in  the  flour,  then 
in  the  egg  and  milk,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  up  til  well 
browned.  Another  way  is,  simply  to  sprinkle  them  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  roll  them  in  cracker  powder,  then 
drop  them  in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  as  you  would  croquettes. 

FRICASSEE  OF  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS. 

Six  large,  fat  crabs, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion, 

Two  teaspoonf  ills  of  chopped  parsley, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Put  the  butter  and  onion  into  a  pan,  and  stir  until  the 
onion  is  soft  and  well  browned;  then  add  the  browned 
flour  and  parsley:  stir  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  pour 
on  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  wash  the  crabs,  and  chop  off 
the  claws  while  they  are  alive;  put  them  into  the  gravy, 
and  let  them  simmer  for  half  an  hour;  then  put  them 
on  a  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them.  Serve  with 
nicely-boiled  rice.  They  should  be  alive  when  put  into 
the  gravy  to  cook, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


89 


TO  FRY  FROGS. 

As  much  cracker  crumbs  as  will  be  needed, 
Two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
One  teacupful  of  milk. 

First  boil  them  in  salt  and  water  for  about  three  min- 
utes; take  them  out  and  wipe  well;  beat  the  eggs,  and 
stir  in  the  milk,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste;  dip 
each  frog,  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  cracker  crumbs; 
when  they  have  all  been  dipped,  put  them  carefully  into  a 
wire  frying  basket,  and  put  it  into  a  skillet  of  boiling  lard; 
let  them  fry  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  at  once. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour, 

Fifty  well  chopped  clams, 

One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  well,  stir  in  gradually  the 
flour  and  milk  in  alternation,  then  the  clams  and  butter 
melted,  salt  and  black  pepper ;  lastly  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Drop  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  nice 
brown.    Measure  with  a  coffeecup. 

FOR  COOKING  AND  DRESSING  TERRAPINS. 

Place  the  terrapin  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes; 
then  take  it  out,  throw  that  water  away,  and  put  on  fresh 
water  to  boil.  Eemove  the  outside  skin,  which  is  on  the 
legs  and  flesh  between  the  upper  and  lower  shells.  This 
can  be  easily  done  at  this  stage  by  rubbing  with  a  towel. 
Put  the  terrapin  back  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  it  is  done,  which  will  take  from  three-quarters  of  an 


90  THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  according  to  the  size  and 
toughness  of  the  terrapin.  When  the  joints  of  the  leg 
break  under  a  slight  pressure  it  has  boiled  enough. 

To  Open. — Place  it  on  its  back  with  the  head  from  you. 
The  gall  bladder  is  then  in  the  left-hand  liver.  This  must 
be  removed  very  carefully.  The  other  liver,  and  all  that 
part  which  is  not  too  close  to  the  gall  should  be  cut  up 
and  put  in.  The  only  other  part  which  cannot  be  used  is 
the  sand-bag.  If  the  pipes  are  used,  they  should  be 
chopped  almost  to  a  hash,  and  will  serve  as  thickening. 
Be  sure  to  leave  out  the  nails  and  bones  of  the  head.  The 
eggs  should  have  the  slight  film  which  surrounds  them 
pulled  off,  and  then  put  them  in  cold  water  for  a  short 
time. 

TO  DRESS  THE  TERRAPIN. 

The  yelks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  cream. 

Mash  the  eggs,  and  add  the  butter;  but  if  they  do  not 
mix  nicely,  a  little  heat  can  be  applied.  Put  a  sauce-pan 
on  the  fire,  and  put  in  some  terrapin,  then  a  little  cream 
dressing,  and  so  on,  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated,  and  the 
dressing  is  all  dissolved.  Then  stir  in  the  small  eggs, 
wine,  cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
This  will  be  enough  for  one  large  terrapin,  or  three  small 
ones. 

ANOTHER  DRESSING  FOR  TERRAPINS. 

One  pint  of  clear  soup, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  teacupful  of  sherry  wine, 
Yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  soup  come  to  a  boil,  mash  the  yelks  of  the 
hard-boiled  eggs  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  with  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


91 


butter  stir  in;  then  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
for  five  minutes;  and  just  before  taking  it  off  the  fire, 
heat  the  wine,  put  it  in  the  dressing  and  pour  over  the 
terrapin  while  boiling  hot.  This  will  do  for  two  good 
sized  terrapins.  Garnish  the  dish  with  thin  slices  of 
lemon,  leaving  out  the  seeds. 

DRESSING  FOR  ONE  TERRAPIN. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  cream, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  Madeira  wine, 

Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  cream  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  butter.  Mash 
the  hard-boiled  yelks  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  stir  in. 
Lastly,  put  in  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  for  five 
minutes,  pour  in  the  wine,  and  while  boiling  hot,  pour 
over  the  terrapin.  The  terrapin  should  always  be  heated 
first. 

TO  DRESS  A  TERRAPIN.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  the  water  the  terrapin  was  boiled  in, 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  wineglass  and  a  half  of  Madeira  wine, 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt, 

One  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 

Cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  terrapin  liquor,  let  this  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  liquor.  Put  in  the  ter- 
rapin while  boiling,  color  with  a  teaspoonful  of  burnt 
brown  sugar.  Put  in  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before 
serving  add  the  wine.  This  should  be  prepared  in  a 
saucepan,  with  hot  water  underneath.  One  terrapin  is 
enough  for  four  persons.  Garnish  the  dish  with  thin 
slices  of  lemon. 


92 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TERRAPIN  DRESSING.— No.  3. 

One  good  sized  terrapin, 
One  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
Half  a  tumblerful  of  sweet  cream, 
A  large  wineglassf  ul  of  sherry  wine, 
The  yelks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs, 
The  eighth  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Put  the  terrapin  on  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  under- 
neath, and  let  it  steam.  Heat  the  cream  and  butter  and 
stir  in  the  terrapin  with  the  mustard,  and  hard-boiled 
eggs  rubbed  very  fine.  Let  this  boil  for  about  five  min- 
utes, put  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  just 
before  serving,  heat  the  wine  and  pour  in.  Serve  very  hot, 
with  the  dish  garnished  with  thin  slices  of  lemon.  Take 
out  the  seeds. 

EGG  BALLS  FOR  TERRAPINS. 

Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

The  white  of  one  raw  egg, 

A  saltspoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  ca}*enne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mash  the  yelks  smoothly  with  the  butter,  then  add  the 
white  of  the  egg.  Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 
After  mixing  thoroughly,  take  bits  of  the  mixture  and 
soil  the  size  of  terrapin's  eggs;  then  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
carefully  in  butter,  but  don't  let  them  change  color  in 
frying.  If  wanted  for  turtle  soup,  shape  the  eggs  as  large 
as  a  medium-sized  marble. 

TO  CAN  TERRAPINS. 

Terrapins  can  be  canned  as  tomatoes  or  peaches.  Par- 
boil them,  and  seal  very  hot.  As  they  are  so  delicate,  it 
would  be  better  to  put  them  up  in  glass  jars.    A  little 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


93 


salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper  should  be  put  in  while 
boiling. 

TO  FEED  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Wash  them  clean,  lay  the  bottom  downwards  and  pour 
over  them  salt  and  water;  allowing  six  ounces  of  salt,  one 
quart  of  corn  or  oatmeal  to  each  gallon  of  water.  Mix 
well  and  sprinkle  over  the  oysters.  Do  this  every  other 
day,  and  keep  them  in  a  cellar. 


BEEF  AND  ENTREES 


OBSERVATIONS     ON    ROASTING,     BOILING  AND 

FRYING. 

Also  Directions  for  Choosing  Meat. 

When  roasting,  let  the  piece  lie  in  water  one  hour, 
then  wash  it,  wipe  perfectly  dry  and  put  it  in  the  oven, 
or  on  the  spit.  Put  on  it  two  thin  slices  of  pickeled  pork, 
and  put  two  inches  of  water  in  the  pan;  pepper  and  salt 
it.  After  the  meat  is  about  half  cooked,  and  before  it 
begins  to  look  brown,  cover  it  with  white  paper  and  baste 
on  it.  When  it  is  nearly  done,  take  off  the  paper,  dredge 
with  flour,  baste  frequently  to  raise  a  froth,  then  serve. 
When  mutton  is  roasted,  after  you  take  off  the  paper, 
loosen  the  skin  and  take  it  off  carefully,  then  dredge  and 
froth  it  up.  Mutton,  veal,  lamb,  and  pork,  must  be  well 
roasted,  but  beef  must  be  rare.  The  two  last  must  be 
skinned  in  the  manner  directed  for  mutton.  Beef  may 
look  brown,  but  the  whiter  the  other  meats  are,  the  more 
genteel  are  they,  and  if  properly  roasted,  they  may  be 
perfectly  done  and  quite  white.  Whatever  meat  is  to  be 
boiled,  must  be  put  into  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt, 
which  will  cook  it  regularly.  When  the  meat  is  put  into 
boiling  water,  the  outside  is  cooked  too  much  before  the 
inside  gets  heated. 

Dredge  everything  with  flour,  and  be  sure  to  add  salt  to 
the  water.    Good  beef,  when  fresh,  has  a  fine  grain,  and 

94 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


95 


is  of  a  vermilion  color,  with  a  slight  tint  of  purple  on  the 
cut  surface;  it  is  firm  and  tender  to  the  touch,  and  is  so 
elastic,  that  no  mark  is  left  after  pressure  from  the  finger. 
The  fat  is  white  and  firm.  When  beef  is  lean,  coarse  and 
sinewy  looking,  it  is  old  and  tough.  When  hams  are 
cooked,  they  should  instantly  be  thrown  into  cold  water, 
as  the  ohange  from  the  boiling  water  they  were  cooked  in, 
to  the  cold  water,  instantly  loosens  the  skin  from  the 
flesh,  and  it  peels  off  without  trouble.  In  choosing  mut- 
ton or  veal  when  fresh,  the  quality  may  be  determined 
from  the  fat  inside  the  thigh.  If  there  be  a  plenty  of 
clear,  firm  fat,  the  meat  is  good.  Veal  should  be  six 
weeks  old  before  it  is  killed,  else  it  will  be  unwholesome. 
Too  young  veal,  may  be  detected  by  a  bluish  tint. 

Fish,  and  all  other  articles  for  frying,  after  being  nicely 
prepared,  should  be  laid  on  a  board,  and  dredged  with 
flour  or  meal,  mixed  with  salt.  When  it  becomes  dry  on 
one  side,  turn  it  and  dredge  it  on  the  other.  For  broiling, 
have  very  bright,  clear  coals.  If  wild  fowls,  poultry  or 
birds,  pepper  and  salt  well  before  broiling.  If  beef  steak 
or  mutton  chops,  only  pepper  at  first,  and  do  not  salt  until 
pressing  them;  then  have  butter,  salt  and  more  pepper  in 
a  pan  for  that.  To  have  viands  served  in  perfection,  the 
dishes  should  always  be  well  heated.  There  should  always 
be  a  supply  of  browned  flour  kept  in  readiness  to  thicken 
brown  gravies,  which  must  be  prepared  in  the  following 
manner:  Put  a  pint  of  flour  in  a  pan,  which  place  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  stir  until  it  is  uniformly  browned. 

TO  ROAST  RIBS  OF  BEEF. 

A  roast  of  two  or  three  ribs, 
Some  flour  for  dredging, 
Salt  and  black  pepper. 

Put  the  beef  into  a  pan,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 


96 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


and  pour  in  the  pan  a  pint  of  hot  water  to  baste  with. 
Keep  the  oven  well  heated,  and  closed  until  it  begins  to 
roast,  then  baste  well  every  fifteen  minutes  ;  add  more  hot 
water  as  it  begins  to  simmer  away,  so  as  the  gravy  will  not 
burn.  Allow  about  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  and 
half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  dredge  well  with  flour,  and 
baste  often,  so  as  to  brown  nicely.  Take  the  meat 
up,  dredge  in  more  flour,  and  add  seasoning  and  boiling 
water,  but  don't  let  the  gravy  be  too  thin.  Let  it  boil  up 
once,  and  strain  into  a  gravy  boat. 

TO  ROAST  A  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

Time  to  roast,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound, 

If  wanted  more  cooked,  roast  twenty  minutes  the  pound. 

Have  a  good  oven ;  put  a  little  clarified  beef  dripping 
in  the  pan,  and  baste  well  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  cook. 
Baste  again,  and  every  quarter  of  an  hour  after,  until 
twenty  minutes  before  it  is  done  ;  then  sprinkle  salt  and 
black  pepper,  and  dredge  flour  over  the  sirloin,  and  turn 
it.  When  nicely  browned,  take  it  off  the  fire  ;  make  a 
gravy  in  the  pan,  by  adding  a  little  more  hot  water,  and 
dredging  a  little  more  flour  ;  then  stir  until  it  thickens. 

TO  COOK  A  FILLET  OF  BEEF. 

Three  pounds  of  the  fillet, 
Half  a  pint  of  clear  soup, 
Salt  and  black  pepper. 

Put  the  fillet  into  a  pan,  sprinkle  some  salt  and  black 
pepper  over  it.  Heat  the  clear  soup,  and  pour  over  the 
fillet ;  then  have  a  good  oven  ;  baste  well  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  and  serve  either  with  a  tomato  sauce  or  cham- 
pignon sauce. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


97 


BEEF  BOUILLI. 

Five  pounds  of  the  round  of  the  beef, 
Three  medium-sized  onions, 
Four  large  carrots, 

A  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  grains, 

A  small  pod  of  red  pepper, 

A  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

Three  turnips. 

Put  the  beef  on  the  fire  with  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt.  When  it  boils,  remove, 
and  set  it  back  to  simmer  slowly.  Peel  and  chop  the 
onions;  cut  the  carrots  and  turnips  in  dice,  and  put  them 
in  with  the  beef.  Tie  the  parsley,  pepper  grains,  red  pep- 
per pod,  and  celery  seed,  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  put  it  in  the 
beef.  Sprinkle  the  summer  savory  over  all  and  boil 
slowly  three  hours.  Take  it  off,  and  a  few  minutes  before 
dishing,  beat  up  an  egg,  spread  it  on  top,  sprinkle  with 
bread-crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BEEF  WITH  PARSLEY. 

Seven  pounds  of  beef, 

Two  large  bunches  of  parsley, 

Three  small  slices  of  pickled  pork. 

Put  the  beef  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Boil  slowly  for  about  four  hours.  Take  out  the  beef, 
dredge  it  with  flour,  and  put  it  into  an  oven  to  brown. 
Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  water  the  beef  was  boiled  in, 
stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  white  flour  and  the  same  of  brown 
flour;  stir  this  until  it  thickens,  garnish  the  beef  with 
some  thin  slices  of  pickle,  pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  it 
and  put  the  rest  in  a  dish.    Serve  very  hot. 


98 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


BEEF  ROLL. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
One  pound  of  fat  bacon, 
One  lemon, 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
Nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Chop  the  beef  and  bacon  very  fine;  season  with  nutmeg, 
salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Add  the  onion,  parsley,  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon,  and  the  juice  of  one  half  of  it.  Then 
the  eggs,  and  mix  well  together  with  the  hand.  Shape 
into  a  roll,  surround  the  roll  with  buttered  paper,  and  tie 
a  cord  securely  around  it.  Then  cover  it  with  a  paste 
made  of  flour  and  water,  and  bake  two  hours.  Eemove 
the  paper  and  crust,  and  serve  with  a  tomato  sauce  or 
brown  gravy. 

ROLLED  STEAK. 

A  large  tender  steak, 

One  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  medium  sized  chopped  onion, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  allspice, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Get  either  a  surloin,  or  a  porter-house  steak.  If  the 
latter,  cut  out  the  bone,  and  pound  just  enough  to  flatten 
it  out  well,  so  it  will  roll  nicely.  Mix  the  above  ingre- 
dients thoroughly  together,  and  as  you  roll  the  steak, 
sprinkle  freely  with  the  preparation;  then  tie  firmly  with 
twine  and  put  it,  with  a  pint  of  hot  water,  into  a  skillet, 
on  the  fire,  two  hours  before  dinner.     Baste  well,  and 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


99 


turn  frequently,  for  one  hour;  pour  off  the  gravy,  put  a 
cover  on  the  skillet,  and  set  it  back  on  the  range  for  an 
hour,  so  as  the  steak  will  brown  nicely.  Before  taking  it 
off  the  fire,  put  the  gravy  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  then 
add  a  wineglassful  of  Madeira  wine,  and  pour  over  the 
steak.  Cut  the  twine  in  several  places,  so  as  not  to  dis- 
turb the  form  of  the  steak. 

TO  CORN  BEEF. 

Four  gallons  of  water, 

Five  pounds  of  salt, 

Two  ounces  of  saltpetre, 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar. 

Mix  the  above,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful 
to  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Let  it  stand  until  cold, 
then  having  packed  the  meat  you  wish  to  corn  in  a  vessel, 
pour  the  pickle  on  it,  taking  care  to  have  the  meat  well 
covered  with  it.  Before  putting  the  pickle  on  the  beef, 
it  will  be  better  to  rub  it  well  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  and 
let  it  stand  three  days.  Let  the  beef  remain  a  week  in 
the  pickle.    This  pickle  will  also  be  excellent  for  tongues. 

TO  BOIL  CORN  BEEF 

One  piece  of  corn  beef, 
Six  whole  cloves, 
Six  whole  allspice. 

Soak  it  for  about  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  then  pour 
off  that  water  and  cover  it  with  fresh  cold  water.  When 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  set  it  back  on  the  range,  put  in  the 
cloves  and  allspice,  and  if  to  be  eaten  hot,  add  two  good- 
sized  carrots;  let  it  simmer  steadily  for  four  or  five  hours, 
according  to  size;  skimming  frequently.  When  thoroughly 
done,  put  it  in  a  vessel  rather  small  for  it;  put  a  plate  on 


100 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


top,  and  a  heavy  flat-iron  on  top  of  that,  leaving  it  so  until 
the  next  day.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  hot,  garnish  the  dish 
with  the  carrots,  cut  in  dice,  or  some  nicely  boiled  cabbage. 

LAMB. 

The  best  pieces  of  lamb  for  roasting,  are  the  f orequarter 
and  hindquarter.  If  preferred  rare,  allow  fifteen  min- 
utes to  the  pound.  If  preferred  well  done,  allow  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound,  and  serve  either  with  a  mint  sauce 
or  brown  gravy  and  jelly. 

MUTTON. 

The  best  pieces  of  mutton  for  roasting,  are  the  saddle, 
the  leg,  and  shoulder.  It  improves  mutton  to  let  it  hang, 
but  it  is  a  great  mistake  to  allow  it  to  hang  too  long.  In 
the  summer,  if  surrounded  by  ice,  it  can  hang  a  week. 
In  the  winter,  three  weeks  at  the  utmost.  If  allowed  to 
hang  too  long  it  becomes  dark  and  dry.  For  boiling  a  leg 
of  mutton,  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound,  and 
serve  with  caper  sauce.  For  roasting  allow  the  same  time, 
baste  well,  and  serve  with  jelly. 

TONGUE  A  LA  MODE. 

One  fresh  beef  tongue, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  black  pepper, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 

One  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice, 

One  dozen  bay  leaves, 

Two  medium  sized  onions, 

One  pint  of  vinegar,  one  lemon, 

Water  enough  to  cover. 

Get  a  stone  crock,  one  foot  in  diameter  and  six  inches 
high.    Put  a  fresh  beef  tongue  in  it,  with  the  above  in- 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


101 


gredients,  and  boil  until  tender.  Cook  one  can  of  cham- 
pignons three  quarters  of  an  hour,  take  out  a  pint  of  the 
broth,  thicken  with  soft  gingerbread,  and  pour  over  the 
tongue.  The  onions  and  lemon  must  be  sliced,  and  be 
sure  to  take  the  seeds  from  the  lemon.  Add  salt  to  the 
taste,  when  boiling.  Add  also,  half  a  tumbler  of  sherry 
wine. 

A  DELICIOUS  WAY  TO  USE  UP  COLD  ROAST  BEEF. 

One  cupful  of  turnips,  cut  in  dice, 

One  cupful  of  carrots,  cut  in  dice, 

One  chopped  onion, 

Some  slices  of  cold  roast  beef, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  wine. 

Put  the  vegetables  into  a  skillet  with  a  quart  of  water, 
some  salt  and  some  pepper.  Let  them  boil  for  one  hour, 
then  put  in  the  beef  and  currant  jelly.  While  the  meat 
is  heating,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  stir  in 
until  it  thickens.  Then  heat  the  wine  and  add.  Use  a 
medium  sized  coffee  cup  for  measuring. 

BOILED  MARROW  BONES. 

Some  marrow  bones, 

Some  nicely  cut  squares  of  toast. 

Saw  the  bones  according  to  fancy,  make  a  little  paste  of 
flour  and  water,  and  cover  the  ends  with  it,  so  as  the  mar- 
row will  not  come  out  in  boiling.  Put  them  into  a  kettle 
and  cover  them  with  boiling  water.  Cook  for  two  hours, 
and  if  served  without  taking  the  marrow  out,  take  the 
paste  off;  wrap  each  end  with  white  fringed  paper,  and  ar- 
range nicely  on  the  dish.  In  this  case,  the  bones  ought  to 


102 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


be  four  inches  long.  If  served  with  the  toast,  have  the 
squares  nicely  cut,  buttered  while  hot,  and  spread  the 
marrow  on  the  squares. 

A  KENTUCKY  RECIPE  FOR  CURING  HAMS. 

Some  red  and  black  pepper, 
Some  saltpetre  and  brown  sugar. 

Make  a  strong  red  pepper  tea  of  the  pods,  moisten  the 
salt  with  it,  and  add  some  brown  sugar,  allowing  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  to  each  ham;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  rub  the  hams  thoroughly  with  it.  Put  a  teaspoonful 
of  saltpetre  on  the  fleshy  side  of  each  ham;  let  them 
stand  in  the  salt  three  weeks,  then  smoke  with  green 
hickory  or  red  oak  until  a  good  color.  Canvas  them  by 
mixing  red  and  black  peppers  together;  about  three- 
fourths  black  pepper.  Wrap  in  paper,  put  them  in  cotton 
bags,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM. 

One  ham, 

One  pint  of  vinegar, 
Enough  water  to  cover  well. 

If  the  ham  is  one  year  old,  soak  it  over  night.  If  two 
years  old,  soak  a  day  and  a  night.  If  three  years  old  soak 
two  days  and  two  nights.  Wash  well  and  put  it  on  in 
cold  water,  having  the  water  at  least  four  inches  above 
the  ham.  If  small,  let  it  simmer  six  or  seven  hours.  If 
large,  it  will  require  at  least  nine  hours  simmering,  and 
never  let  it  boil  hard.  After  it  has  been  on  the  fire  three 
hours,  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  fresh  boiling  water  with 
the  pint  of  vinegar.    Skin  while  the  ham  is  warm. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


103 


TO  BAKE  A  HAM. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
The  yelks  of  two  eggs, 
Some  grated  bread  crumbs. 

After  the  ham  has  been  well  boiled  and  skinned,  before 
allowing  it  to  get  cold,  mix  the  mustard  with  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs,  and  spread  nicely  over  the  ham,  then  sprinkle 
the  bread  crumbs  over,  put  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  half 
an  hour.  It  is  a  great  improvement  to  pour  over  the  ham 
half  a  tumblerful  of  sherry  or  port  wine,  just  about  ten 
minutes  before  taking  it  out  of  the  oven. 

TO  ROAST  A  PIG. 

Have  a  very  young  pig, 

Two  medium-sized  onions, 

A  coffeecupful  of  bread  crumbs, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  summer  savory, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt, 

One  egg,  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Clean  the  pig  well  and  chop  the  onions  very  fine.  Put 
the  butter  and  bread  crumbs  together;  add  the  egg, 
chopped  onion,  and  powdered  summer  savory,  salt  and 
black  pepper.  Stuff  the  pig  with  this  and  sew  it  up  with 
coarse  thread.  Truss  the  fore  legs  forward,  and  hind  legs 
backward.  Rub  the  pig  with  butter,  sprinkle-  with  black 
pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Just  before  put- 
ting it  in  the  pan,  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  the  skin  of 
the  body  in  squares,  but  don't  cut  any  deeper  than  the 
skin.  Put  hot  water  in  the  pan,  and  have  a  moderate 
oven.  Baste  very  often,  and  cook  for  three  hours  and  a 
half.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings,  by  adding  a  litt-le 
summer  savory  and  dredging  with  a  little  flour. 


104 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  ROAST  A  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

A  six-pound  fillet  of  veal, 
One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 
One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
One  saltspoonful  of  powdered  mace, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Take  the  bone  out  of  the  fillet;  mix  the  bread  crumbs 
with  the  other  ingredients,  and  put  them  in  where  the 
bone  was.  On  the  top  there  will  be  a  piece  of  skin; 
skewer  that  over  the  stuffing  Pepper  and  flour,  and  put 
three  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork  on  the  fillet;  then  put  it 
in  the  pan  with  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Put  another 
pan  on  top,  so  as  the  steam  will  assist  in  the  cooking. 
This  must  be  put  in  the  oven  five  hours  before  dinner. 
Keep  the  top  pan  on  for  three  hours,  basting  constantly; 
remove  it  then,  so  as  it  will  be  nicely  browned  About 
fifteen  minutes  before  dinner,  open  the  oven  door,  so  as  it 
will  not  cook  any  longer;  take  out  a  pint  of  the  gravy, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour,  a  dessertspoonful  of 
tomato  catsup;  stir  until  it  thickens;  put  into  a  gravy- 
boat  and  serve  with  the  veal. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Two  large  veal  cutlets, 

A  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs, 

A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

A  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  large  onion, 

One  egg. 

Rub  the  veal  cutlets  with  egg;  sprinkle  them  well  with 
bread   crumbs,   and  brown  them  in  butter  and  lard, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


105 


mixed,  for  about  ten  minutes.  Peel  and  chop  the  onion, 
and  brown  that  also;  add  to  the  gravy  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  the  parsley,  powdered  summer  savory,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  the  cutlets  back,  and  let  them  simmer  for  an 
hour.  Take  them  up;  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato 
catsup  in  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  over  the  cutlets.  If  the 
gravy  should  be  thin,  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour 
should  be  put  in  before  the  catsup. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal. 

Two  pounds  of  fresh  pork. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper, 

A  small  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 

One  tablespoonful  of  summer  savory, 

Ten  pulverized  crackers, 

Six  eggs. 

Chop  the  veal  and  pork  as  fine  as  possible;  mix  the  salt 
and  pepper  together  and  put  into  the  meat;  then  the 
crackers,  eggs;  lastly  the  summer  savory — rubbed  very 
fine.  Mix  well  with  the  hands;  mold  into  a  loaf,  and 
put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  Add  occasionally 
a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top,  which  will  assist 
in  basting,  cooking  and  browning  nicely.  Bake  carefully 
in  a  good  oven  for  two  hours,  but  don't  let  it  be  too  hot. 

VEAL  LOAF.— No.  2. 

Three  pounds  of  veal  cutlets, 

A  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  salt, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 


106  THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

Chop  the  cutlets  a3  fine  as  possible  ;  add  the  bread 
crumbs,  milk  and  butter  melted ;  mix  thoroughly  ;  then 
put  in  the  summer  savory,  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Put  into  a  nice  shaped  bowl,  and  bake  for  three  hours, 
basting  occasionally  with  a  little  hot  water.    It  would  be 

o  J 

a  great  improvement  to  put  a  teacupful  of  Madeira  wine 
in  the  water  when  basting  it.    Serve  cold. 

VEAL  LOAF.— No.  3. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veaJ, 

Two  pounds  of  fresh  pork, 

Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper, 

Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  summer  savory, 

One  teaspoonful  of  thyme, 

Ten  pulverized  crackers, 

Yelks  of  sis  raw  eggs. 

Chop  the  veal  and  pork  as  fine  as  possible  ;  rub  the 
thyme  and  summer  savory  to  a  powder,  and  mix  with  the 
meat,  then  add  the  well  beaten  yelks.  Lastly,  put  in  the 
pulverized  crackers,  and,  when  thoroughly  mixed,  season 
with  the  salt  and  black  pepper.  Mold  into  a  loaf  and 
bake  two  hours,  basting  constantly  with  butter  and  hot 
water.  Just  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  wine,  and  finish  basting. 

TO  STUFF  A  CALF'S  HEART. 

One  calf's  heart, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  soaked  bread, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Yelk  of  one  raw  egg, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thorousfhlv  :  make  a  little  hole  in 
th/  heart,  and  put  the  ingredients  in  with  a  piece  of  fat 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


107 


bacon,  skewered  over  the  end.  Put  on  in  water  enough  to 
keep  it  well  covered,  and  boil  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  a 
gravy,  as  given  in  the  recipe  below. 

FOR  THE  GRAVY. 

Take  a  coffeecupful  of  water  the  heart  has  boiled  in, 
mix  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Stir  in  the  gravy  until  it  thickens,  and  add 
a  cooking-spoonful  of  wine.    Pour  this  over  the  heart. 

TO  STUFF  A  CALF'S  LIVER. 

One  calf's  liver, 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  chopped  onion, 

One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Salt,  black  pepper,  and  mace  to  the  taste. 

Take  out  all  the  veins  of  the  under  side,  and  make 
deep  incisions  on  the  other  side.  Mix  the  stuffing  well 
together,  and  put  carefully  in  the  incisions,  and  skewer 
each  tightly.  Pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour,  not  forget- 
ting to  put  two  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork  on  top.  Put 
into  a  pan,  with  a  pint  of  water.  Baste  well  for  an  hour 
and  a  quarter;  then  take  out  of  the  pan,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  little  browned  flour,  adding  allspice  and  wine  to 
the  taste.    Pour  over  the  liver,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CALF'S  HEAD  A  LA  TERRAPIN. 

One  calf's  head, 

One  pint  of  the  water  the  head  has  boiled  in, 

One  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 

One  tablespoonful  of  white  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 

Two  large  cooking-spoonfuls  of  butter, 

Half  a  tumblerful  of  Madeira  wine, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  mace  to  the  taste. 


108 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Boil  the  calf's  head  until  perfectly  done.  Chop  up  the 
meat  with  the  brains,  taking  out  the  bones  and  gristle. 
Put  into  a  saucepan,  with  the  pint  of  water  it  has  boiled 
in.  Let  it  simmer.  Mix  perfectly  smooth  the  butter  and 
flour,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  liquor.  Stir  into 
the  calf's  head.  Add  the  allspice,  mace,  salt  and  cayenne. 
Let  it  simmer  until  it  thickens,  and  just  before  taking  it 
off  the  fire,  pour  in  the  wine.  Garnish  the  dish  with  thin 
slices  of  lemon.    This  is  just  as  delicious  baked. 


Take  out  the  brains  and  parboil.  Put  the  head  in  a 
pot  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  the  onions 
whole,  with  a  little  salt.  Boil  until  tender  enough  to  take 
out  all  the  bones.  Then  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt, 
cloves,  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Dredge  with  flour,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.  Season  the  brains  also  with  salt,  nut- 
meg, cayenne  pepper,  to  the  taste.  Add  the  butter,  yelk 
of  the  egg,  and  two  rolled  crackers.  Mix  well  with  the 
hands,  shape  into  little  cakes,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

TO  MAKE  THE  GRAVY  FOR  FRIED  CALF'S  HEAD. 


Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  water  the  head  has  boiled  in, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

A  wine  glass  of  wine, 

Salt,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 


CALF'S  HEAD  FRIED. 


One  calf's  head, 

Yelk  of  one  egg, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Two  rolled  crackers, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 

Ground  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  taste, 

Two  large  onions. 


Mix  the  flour  and  butter  perfectly  smooth,  and  stir  in  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


109 


two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  the  water  the  head  has  boiled  in. 
Then  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste.  Boil  until  it 
thickens,  and  just  before  taking  it  off,  add  the  wine  glass  of 
wine.  Put  the  calf's  head  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  pour 
the  gravy  over  it,  and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
and  sprigs  of  parsley,  in  alternation,  until  the  head  is  cov- 
ered. Put  the  little  cakes,  made  of  the  brains,  around  the 
dish. 

TO  BAKE  SWEETBREADS. 

Three  sets  of  sweetbreads, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  lard, 
One  coffeecupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
Two  eggs. 

After  the  sweetbreads  have  been  well  boiled  and  are 
cold,  roll  them  carefully  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the 
crumbs.  Let  them  stand,  so  as  the  egg  and  crumbs 
will  dry  on  them  ;  then  have  the  lard  and  butter,  half  and 
half,  in  a  hot  skillet ;  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  and  baste 
constantly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  either  with  a  tomato 
or  champignon  sauce. 

TO  STEW  SWEETBREADS  WITH  CREAM. 

One  set  of  sweetbreads, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

Cook  the  sweetbreads  thoroughly,  pick  off  the  gristle 
and  fat.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  cream.  Boil  five  minutes,  and  add  the  butter 
and  flour  well  creamed.  Lastly  the  salt,  cayenne  pepper, 
and  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  This  quantity  can  be  increased 
according  to  the  number  to  be  served. 


110 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  FRY  SWEETBREADS. 

Three  sets  of  sweetbreads, 

One  large  coffeecupful  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  well-beaten  ea;g. 

Three  sets  means  six  sweetbreads.  Wash  them  clean; 
put  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Boil  slowly  for  twenty  minutes,  then  throw  them 
into  cold  water.  After  five  minutes,  take  them  out  and  set 
them  away  to  get  cold.  Have  ready  the  batter  made  of  the 
above  ingredients;  split  the  sweetbreads,  dip  each  piece 
into  the  batter,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  hot  lard. 

TO  FRY  SWEETBREADS.— No.  2. 

Three  sets  of  sweetbreads, 
One  large  coffeecupful  of  sour  milk, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
One  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
One  well -beaten  egg, 
A  saltspoonful  of  soda, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Wash  the  sweetbreads  clean,  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  boiling  water,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salf.  Let 
them  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  put  them  into  cold 
water  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  and  put  them  aside  to  get 
cold.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  flour,  then  the  butter  melted. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water,  and  beat  into  the  sour 
milk  until  it  foams,  then  stir  in  the  egg.  Season  to  the 
taste;  split  the  sweetbreads,  dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  a  cinnamon  brown. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Ill 


TO  COOK  CHAMPIGNONS  WITH  SWEETBREADS. 

Two  cans  of  champignons, 

Two  sets  of  sweetbreads, 

Three  teaspoonfuls  of  white  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  brown  flour, 

One  pint  of  clear  soup, 

One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Two  wineglassfuls  of  wine, 

Mace,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cook  the  sweetbreads  thoroughly,  and  break  into  small 
pieces,  taking  care  to  get  off  all  the  skin  and  gristle.  Cut 
up  the  champignons  and  put  them,  with  their  liquor,  into 
a  saucepan  with  the  clear  soup.  Boil  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  then  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  mace,  also  the 
sweetbreads.  Mix  the  butter  with  the  flour,  put  into  the 
sweetbreads  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Just  before  taking 
the  saucepan  off  the  fire  add  the  wine.    Serve  very  hot. 

CROQUETTES.— No.  i. 

Half  a  pound  of  the  breast  of  chicken  or  turkey, 

Half  a  pound  of  sweetbreads, 

Half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Three  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 

One  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 

Four  eggs, 

Nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  bread  crumbs  into  a  saucepan  and  pour  over 
them  hot  water  enough  to  mash  perfectly  smooth.  Add. 
the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  stir  over  the  fire  until  a  moderately 
stiff  panada  is  made,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Chop  the 
meat  and  sweetbreads  as  fine  as  possible,  add  the  panada, 
butter,  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  When  thor- 
oughly mixed,  add  the  other  two  eggs,  both  whites  and 


112 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


yelks,  and  shape  as  pears.  Break  into  a  pan  two  more 
eggs,  and  have  ready  some  stale  bread  crumbs.  Roll  each 
croquette  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  crumbs,  and  let  them 
stand  for  a  while  to  dry.  Drop  in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a 
cinnamon  brown.  Be  sure  to  cook  the  sweetbreads  before 
chopping,  and  if  they  are  not  to  be  had,  substitute  for 
them  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  cream.  The  more  creamy 
the  croquettes  are,  the  more  delicious  they  will  be. 

CROQUETTES.— No.  2. 

One  set  of  sweetbreads, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  chopped  turkey  breast, 
Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  boiling  cream, 
One  small  teacupf  ul  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
One  small  onion, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  celery, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
Salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Pour  the  boiling  cream  over  the  bread  crumbs  and 
mash  smooth.  Parboil  the  sweetbreads,  and  chop  very 
fine;  grate  the  onion  and  mix  all  well  together  with  the 
hands  and  shape  as  pears;  roll  in  egg,  then  in  stale  bread 
crumbs;  drop  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  cinnamon  brown. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

One  hundred  large  oysters, 

A  small  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion. 

Twelve  sprigs  of  parsley, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream. 

Put  the  oysters  into  a  sauce-pan,  over  a  moderate  fire, 
and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  the  leaves  are  well  opened, 
then  drai-n  well  through  a  colander.     Take   out  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


113 


muscles,  and  chop  the  oysters,  but  don't  chop  them  too 
fine.  Season  to  the  taste  with  salt,  black  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Chop  the  onion  and  parsley  very  fine,  and  mix 
well  with  the  oysters.  Put  the  butter  into  a  large  frying 
pan;  add  the  flour,  and  rub  with  a  spoon  until  perfectly 
smooth;  then  add  slowly  the  cream,  stirring  over  a  brisk 
fire  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste.  If  this  should  be 
too  thick,  add  a  little  more  cream,  or  some  of  the  juice 
strained  from  the  oysters;  for  the  paste  must  be  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  custard.  Put  the  oysters  into  the  paste, 
and  let  all  cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes;  stirring 
gently  every  minute  or  two.  Now  spread  the  mixture  on 
a  dish  and  let  it  get  cold.  Shape  the  croquettes  ;  roll  in 
stale  bread  crumbs  and  egg  ;  put  them  in  a  frying  basket, 
and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  hot  lard.  Should  the  mixture  be 
too  soft  to  shape  the  croquettes,  take  out  a  spoonful  at  the 
time  ;  roll  first  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  and  again 
in  crumbs,  and  let  them  stand  awhile  before  putting  them 
in  the  frying  basket.  Should  the  weather  be  at  all  warm, 
it  would  be  well  to  put  the  mixture  in  the  ice-chest  for 
an  hour  or  two  before  shaping  them. — Mr.  Morris  Hopkins, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

One  pound  of  cooked  salmon, 
One  pound  of  mashed  potatoes, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Take  all  of  the  bones  out  of  the  salmon  and  skin. 
Chop  very  fine,  and  mix  all  well  together.  If  too  stiff,  add 
a  little  more  cream.  Shape  as  croquettes,  and  fry  quickly 
in  boiling  lard. 


114 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


QUENELLES. 

One  pound  of  ground  chicken  or  turkey  breast, 
Siz  ounces  of  panada, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  beef  suet, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  tablespoonf  ul  of  scraped  pork, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  sauce, 
One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
Nutmeg  and  grated  lemon  rind  to  the  taste, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  panada  and  meat  well  together  with  the  hand  ; 
add  the  butter,  salt,  pork,  and  cream  sauce,  and  work  for 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  put  in  the  onion,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  salt,  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Let  the  seasoning  be 
so  delicate,  that  the  taste  of  no  one  ingredient  can  be  de- 
tected above  the  other.  Shape  about  three  inches  long, 
two  inches  wide  and  two  inches  thick  ;  roll  in  flour,  and 
cook  as  croquettes.  Serve  with  a  white  champignon  sauce 
poured  over  them. 

BOUDINS  A  LA  RICHELIEU. 

Some  raw  turkey  breast, 
One  half  as  much  butter, 
Three  eggs, 

Salt,  nutmeg  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Take  as  much  turkey  breast  as  you  wish,  say  a  heavy 
pound;  grate  and  pound  in  a  mortar  until  it  can  be  passed 
through  a  fine  sieve;  add  half  as  much  butter  as  there  is 
turkey  breast,  and  one-third  as  much  paste,  made  as 
follows:  Take  the  inside  of  a  loaf  of  bread,  soak  it  in 
milk,  and  dry  on  the  range,  but  don't  let  it  get  in  the 
least  hard,  then  add  the  butter  until  it  becomes  a  stiff 
paste,  lastly  the  eggs,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pepper  to  the 
taste.    Fry  a  small  piece  in  boiling  water,  to  see  that  it  is 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


115 


not  too  stiff  or  too  soft.  If  too  stiff  add  more  yelks.  The 
above  should  be  a  light-yellow  in  color. 

TO  MAKE  THE  SAUCE  FOR  THE  BOUDINS. 

One  fourth  of  a  box  of  truffles, 

One  large  wineglassful  of  sherry  wine, 

One  aschalot. 

Chop  and  cook  the  aschalot;  put  into  a  pan  with  the 
sherry  wine,  then  add  the  chopped  truffles.  Let  all  cook 
again  until  nearly  dry,  then  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
brown  sauce.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  put  into  a  dish 
to  cool.  The  boudin  should  be  the  shape  and  size  of  a 
wafer  cake,  and  rolled  in  heavy  white  paper,  wet  with 
sweet  oil  inside  and  outside.  Then  boil  in  clear  soup  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

ASPEC  JELLY. 

Three  pints  of  clear  soup, 
One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
Half  a  pint  of  wine, 
One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
Whites  and  shells  of  three  eggs, 
Six  whole  cloves, 
Salt  to  the  taste, 
One  Lemon. 

Put  the  soup  in  a  saucepan  with  the  wine,  gelatine, 
vinegar,  cloves,  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and  egg 
shells.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  let  it  settle  for  five  minutes  and 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag. 

HOW  TO  MOLD  ASPEC  JELLY. 

Put  the  mold  on  ice,  pour  in  until  about  one-third 
full;  let  the  jelly  get  stiff,  then  cut  some  thin  slices  of 
cooked  sweetbreads,  champignons  and  truffles,  which  place 


116 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


tastefully  on  the  jelly,  with  some  cooked  peas  here  and 
there.  Pour  on  some  more  jelly,  let  it  get  stiff,  put  some 
more  champignons,  etc.,  and  so  on,  uutil  the  mold  is  full. 
This  is  a  delightful  dish  to  be  served  as  a  course  at  a  din- 
ner, lunch^,  or  supper. 

RISSOLES. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  breast  of  chicken  or  turkey, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweetbreads, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  pint  of  rich  cream, 

A  teaspoonful  of  parsley, 

Yelks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 

Nutmeg,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Chop  the  chicken,  sweetbreads  and  parsley,  very  fine, 
and  mix  with  the  butter;  then  stir  in  the  cream,  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs  rubbed  very  fine;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  put 
in  the  nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper;  put  all  into  a 
saucepan,  and  stir  until  it  boils,  then  put  it  in  the  ice 
chest  to  get  cold.  Make  some  nice  pastry,  roll  very  thin, 
and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter ;  roll  an  oblong  shape,  put 
in  a  large  spoonful  of  the  mixture,  turn  the  pastry,  which 
will  make  it  a  half-moon  shape;  grease  the  ends  inside 
with  a  little  butter,  and  press  them  gently  together;  dip  in 
egg,  then  in  vermicelli,  which  must  be  broken  in  small 
pieces.  Let  them  stand  a  little  while,  then  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard  like  croquettes. 

BRAINS  IN  SHELLS. 

One  quart  of  brains, 
One  tumblerful  of  sweet  cream, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  teaspoonful  of  nour. 

Soak  the  brains  until  the  blood  has  disappeared  entirely 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


117 


from  them;  pick  the  gristle  and  bone  from  them,  and  par- 
boil until  white  and  tender;  then  add  the  cream,  butter, 
flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  until  done;  break  up  the 
brains  with  a  spoon  until  fine,  put  them  in  shells  with 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top, 
and  put  them  into  the  oven  to  brown.  This  recipe 
applies  to  hogs'  brains.  Calves'  brains  can  be  cooked  the 
same  way,  and  a  little  of  the  extract  of  celery  put  in  just 
before  filling  the  shells  is  a  great  improvement. 

CREME  DE  VOLAISLE. 

Half  a  pound  of  chicken  breast, 

Half  a  pound  of  beef  suet, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,, 

Two  cans  of  champignons, 

One  teacupful  of  boiled  chopped  beef  tongue, 

One  teacupful  of  truffles, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 

Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  mace  to  the  taste, 

Five  eggs. 

Grind  the  meat  and  suet,  then  pound  through  a  col- 
ander, so  as  to  get  out  all  the  sinews  and  threads;  add  the 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  as  for  cake;  then  the  salt, 
cayenne  pepper,  mace,  and  liquor  of  the  champignons; 
mix  well,  and  line  a  mold  made  for  the  purpose,  leaving  a 
hollow  in  the  center  for  the  sauce,  which  make  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  Cut  up  the  champignons  and  mix  with 
the  tongue;  then  add  the  cream,  butter,  and  a  little  more 
cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  the  taste;  fill  the  hollow,  leav- 
ing out  some  to  go  around  the  mold  when  it  is  served; 
cover  over  with  a  little  of  the  chicken  mixture,  put  the 
tin  top  tightly  on,  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Decorate 
the  dish  with  cut-up  truffles  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  accord- 
ing to  taste.    Serve  hot, 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS. 


TO  MAKE  A  SAUCE  FOR  BOUILLI. 

One  pint  of  water  the  bouilli  was  cooked  in, 
One  saltspoonful  of  gound  allspice, 
One  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  Madeira  wine, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste. 

Take  the  pint  of  water  the  bouilli  has  cooked  in  ;  skim 
off  all  of  the  grease,  and  if  very  thick,  add  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  hot  water.  Stir  in  the  allspice  and  the  browned 
flour,  moistened  with  a  little  cold  water  to  mix  it.  Let 
this  boil  five  minutes,  and  just  before  putting  it  in  the 
sauce-boat  heat  the  wine  and  stir  it  in.  Put  the  bouilli 
on  a  heated  dish,  garnish  tastefully  with  the  vegetables, 
and  small  sprigs  of  parsley. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  pint  of  boiling  water, 

A  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  to  the  taste, 

A  tablespoonful  of  capers. 

Ci  am  the  butter  and  flour,  and  mix  slowly  with  the 
boiling  water  and  salt.  Let  it  boil  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
cream,  then  put  in  the  capers  ;  should  capers  not  be  conven- 
ient, put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  cucumber  pickle, 
or  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar. 

118 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


119 


TO  MAKE  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

One  pint  of  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  milk  on  in  a  saucepan.  While  it  is  boiling,  rub 
the  corn  starch  and  butter  well  together,  and  stir  in  until 
it  thickens  ;  then  put  in  salt  to  the  taste.  This  can  be 
served  either  with  a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  or  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped,  and  stirred  in.  If  capers  are  used, 
have  them  in  the  sauce-boat,  and  pour  the  drawn  butter 
over  them.  The  sauce-boat  must  be  heated.  Flour  can 
be  used  for  thickening  if  preferred. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  mint, 
One  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  vinegar, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  water. 

Put  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  water  in  a  gravy-boat. 
Chop  the  mint  very  fine  and  stir  in.  Let  this  stand  for 
half  an  hour  before  using  it.  This  quantity  can  be  in- 
creased according  to  the  number  of  guests  to  be  served. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  STEAKS  AND  CHOPS. 

One  pint  of  tomatoes, 

One  small  carrot, 

Two  whole  cloves, 

A  small  piece  of  a  blade  of  mace, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Qne  onion. 


120 


THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


The  tomatoes  must  be  measured  after  they  have  been 
peeled  and  cut  up.  Peel  and  quarter  the  onion;  scrape 
and  divide  the  carrot.  Put  the  tomatoes  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  other  ingredients,  and  stew  until  the  carrot  and 
onion  are  tender.  Pour  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the 
saucepan,  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  a 
dessertspoonful  of  butter.    Serve  very  hot. 


BROWN  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS. 

One  pint  of  clear  soup, 

One  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  soup  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  under- 
neath, with  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  While  it  is  boil- 
ing, rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  the 
sauce  until  it  thickens,  then  serve.  A  small  wmeglassful 
of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine  can  be  added  just  before  serving 
if  preferred. 

TO    MAKE    THE    OYSTER    SAUCE    FOR  BOILED 

TURKEY. 

One  quart  of  oysters, 
One  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  to  boil;  add  the  cream,  then  the  flour  moistened 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Let  this  boil  until  it  thickens, 
then  season,  and  drop  in  the  oysters.  When  they  curl, 
take  them  off;  serve  in  a  sauce  boat.    If  cream  is  not  to 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


121 


be  had,  put  into  the  milk  a  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour0 

SAUCE  FOR  QUENELLES. 

Two  cans  of  champignons, 

One  pint  of  cream, 

A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

Nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  champignons  up  in  small  pieces,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  their  own  liquor,  to  cook  gently  for 
half  an  hour.  Stir  in  the  cream,  and  while  boiling,  mix 
the  butter  and  flour  well  together,  and  add  to  the  cham- 
pignons by  degrees.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  then  season 
with  the  nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Use  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  this  sauce  for  the  quenelles,  leaving  out 
the  champignons. 

TRUFFLE  SAUCE. 

One  pound  can  of  truffles, 
One  pint  of  clear  soup, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  white  flour, 
One  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine, 
'  Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Chop  the  truffles,  and  put  them  with  their  liquor  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  clear  soup.  Boil  steadily  for  half  an 
hour.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  stir  in  the 
truffles,  and  simmer  until  thick,  then  add  the  wine,  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper.  This  sauce  is  delicious  in  an 
omelette,  only  don't  put  as  much  of  the  sauce  as  of  the 
truffles.    This  is  also  delicious  for  meats  and  entrees. 


122 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


A  SAUCE  FOR  EITHER  BAKED  OR  BOILED  FISH. 

One  teaspoon ful  of  mixed  mustard, 

One  tablespoonful  of  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil, 

Two  medium-sized  cucumber  pickles, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  large  onion. 

Chop  the  onion  very  fine,  sprinkle  with  a  little  browned 
flour,  and  fry  until  well  browned.  Mix  the  onion  and  cat- 
sup together,  and  boil  five  minutes,  then  stir  in  the  oil, 
butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Lastly,  the  cucumber 
pickles,  chopped  very  fine. 


SAUCE  A  LA  HOLLAND AISE  FOR  FISH. 

One  pint  of  boiled  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  Madeira  wine, 

One  tablespoonful  of  capers, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per, also  extract  of  celery,  to  the  taste.  Cream  the  butter 
and  flour  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  stir  into  the  milk 
until  it  thickens.  Have  the  capers  in  the  sauce  boat,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  serve  very  hot. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Make  a  sauce  a  la  Hollandaise;  heat  the  lobster  and 
stir  in.  Shrimp  and  salmon  sauce  can  be  made  in  the 
same  way.    Do  not  cut  up  the  shrimps,  and  simply  take 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


123 


out  the  bones,  and  remove  the  skin  of  the  lobster  and 
salmon.    Always  serve  these  sauces  hot,  with  fish. 


CHAMPIGNON  SAUCE. 

Two  cans  of  champignons, 

One  quart  of  clear  soup, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Two  tablespoon fuls  of  wine, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  champignons  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  in 
their  own  liquor  for  half  an  hour.  Let  the  clear  soup 
come  to  a  boil,  and  add  to  the  champignons,  with  the 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter,  and 
stir  in  the  champignons  until  quite  thick,  say  the  thick- 
ness of  rich  cream.  Heat  the  wine  and  pour  in  just  be- 
fore serving. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  TURKEY. 

One  pint  of  the  water  the  turkey  was  boiled  in, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  boiled  milk, 

Three  stalks  of  celery, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  pint  of  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire;  put 
in  the  boiled  milk,  cream  the  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  in. 
Add  the  salt;  cut  the  celery  about  four  inches  long;  boil  it 
twenty  minutes  and  drop  into  the  sauce.  Slice  some 
pieces  of  the  breast  of  boiled  turkey,  enough  for  a  nice 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  This  is  delicious, 
and  can  be  served  as  a  course,  after  fish. 


124  THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

ft 


TARTARE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

The  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
The  yelks  of  two  raw  eggs, 
Eight  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil, 
Three  dessertspoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
One  tablespoonf  ul  of  capers, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  to  the  taste. 

Mash  the  hard-boiled  eggs;  add  the  raw  eggs  to  them, 
and  beat  until  perfectly  smooth  and  light.  Then  beat  in 
well,  the  oil  and  vinegar,  in  alternation.  Add  the  onion 
and  capers;  lastly  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Serve  cold 
in  a  sauce-boat. 


WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES. 

One  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
Two  pieces  of  celery, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  cream  with  the  celery  until  it  tastes  well  of  it, 
then  take  it  out  and  put  in  the  salt  and  black  pepper  to 
the  taste  ;  rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in 
until  it  thickens.  If  celery  is  out  of  season,  tie  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  celery  seed  in  a  piece  of  fine  muslin,  and  boil 
in  the  cream ;  or  the  celery  can  be  left  out  altogether. 


* 

FOWLS  AND  GAME. 


TO  BOIL  A  TURKEY. 

Sprinkle  a  cloth  with  flour,  tie  the  turkey  up  in  it.  put 
it  in  a  pot  and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  let  it  boil  slowly  for 
half  an  hour,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  ;  set  the  pot 
back  ;  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  two  and  a  half, 
according  to  the  size.    Serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

THE  SAUCE. 

One  pint  of  the  water  the  turkey  has  boiled  in, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  cream. 

Put  the  water  into  a  saucepan  ;  add  the  cream  and  salt 
to  the  taste  ;  let  it  boil,  and  while  boiling  mix  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour  with  cold  water;  stir  in,  and  let  it  boil  until  it 
thickens  ;  have  ready  in  the  sauce-boat,  the  chopped  yelks 
of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them ; 
garnish  the  turkey  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
a  little  of  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 

TO  ROAST  A  TURKEY. 

Tie  the  legs  and  wings  together,  or  fasten  with  skewers. 
Put  in  the  stuffing,  salt  and  pepper  well ;  dredge  with 
flour,  lay  three  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork  across  the  breast 
bone,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  pint  of  hot  water; 
increasing  it  as  you  think  necessary  to  make  a  suf- 

125 


126 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ficient  quantity  of  gravy.  Baste  it  frequently,  and 
roast  from  two  hours  and  a  half  to  three  hours,  according 
to  its  size.  When  it  is  done,  take  some  of  the  gravy,  say  a 
pint,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Chop  up  the  gizzards  and  liver,  which  have  been  previously 
well  cooked,  and  mix  with  the  gravy.  It  is  always  well, 
when  putting  the  turkey  to  roast,  to  put  a  pan  over  it, 
until  half  done,  then  remove  the  pan  so  as  to  let  it  brown 
nicely.  This  will  keep  the  turkey  from  roasting  too 
quickly,  or  drying  up. 

STUFFING  FOR  A  TURKEY. 

One  loaf  of  stale  bread, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 
One  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
The  yelks  of  three  eggs. 

Cat  off  all  the  crust  of  the  bread,  and  pour  on  it  enough 
hot  water  to  soak  it  thoroughly;  then  squeeze  all  of  the 
water  out  of  it.  Put  the  pepper  and  salt  in  the  bread, 
mix  with  the  eggs  and  summer  savory;  then  put  all  into 
the  turkey,  and  sew  it  up  carefully. 

TO  STUFF  A  TURKEY  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Twenty -five  large  oysters, 
Half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  tablespoonful  of  chopped  celery, 
Two  tablespoonful s  of  cream, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
The  yelk  of  one  egg. 

Chop  the  oysters  fine,  mix  with  the  celery,  cream  and 
bread  crumbs;  add  the  yelk  of  the  egg,  then  the  salt  and 
pepper.    Mix  thoroughly,  and  put  in  the  turkey.  Boil, 
as  in  the  recipe  for  boiling  a  turkey,  and  serve  with  oyster 
auce. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  *  127 


ANOTHER  WAY  TO  ROAST  AND  STUFF  A  TURKEY. 

One  turkey,  weighing  ten  or  twelve  pounds, 

One  dozen  chopped  oysters, 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  large  cooking- spoonful  of  butter, 

Black  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Truss  the  turkey;  put  the  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and 
summer  savory  in  the  bread  crumbs;  rub  in  the  butter, 
then  moisten  with  the  eggs;  add  the  chopped  oysters,  and 
stuff  the  turkey,  sewing  it  up  very  carefully,  so  as  the 
stuffing  will  not  come  out;  cut  three  thin  slices  of  pickled 
pork,  lay  them  across  the  breast  bone,  dredge  the  turkey 
with  flour,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  one  inch  of  water  in 
it.  Roast  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  basting  frequently. 
Make  a  sauce  of  the  drippings,  into  which  stir  in  the 
giblets,  which  have  been  previously  cooked  and  chopped 
fine.    Thicken  this  sauce  with  a  little  brown  flour. 

CHESTNUT  STUFFING  FOR  A  TURKEY. 

One  teacupful  of  boiled  mashed  chestnuts, 

One  teacupful  of  mashed  sweet  potato, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

One  wineglassful  of  cream, 

Salt  to  the  taste, 

Black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  potato,  chestnut  and  cream  well  together, 
then  add  the  salt  and  black  pepper.  When  the  turkey  is 
half  roasted,  put  in  the  stuffing,  and  continue  to  baste  well 
until  done.  Get  the  Spanish  chestnuts.  This  makes  a 
delicious  stuffing  for  quails  also. 


128 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  ROAST  A  GOOSE. 

One  young  goose, 

Three  large  onions, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  heaping  tablespoonf ul  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  chopped  pork, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste;  one  egg. 

As  you  truss  the  goose,  cut  out  the  neck  and  put  back 
the  piece  of  flesh  that  surrounded  it.  Sprinkle  pepper 
and  salt  over  the  goose  and  dredge  with  flour.  Keep  the 
giblets  for  the  gravy.  Lay  on  the  breast  bone  three  thin 
slices  of  pickled  pork,  put  it  in  the  pan  with  a  quart  of 
hot  water,  and  baste  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  it  is 
a  green  goose  cook  two  hours,  if  an  older  goose,  cook  nearly 
three  hours.  Make  a  nice  brown  gravy,  put  the  chopped 
giblets  in  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Have  some  nice  apple 
sauce  in  a  dish  to  serve  also  with  the  goose. 

TO  ROAST  A  CHICKEN. 

One  tender,  fat  chicken, 
Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Wash  the  chicken  and  wipe  dry.  Rub  the  butter  with 
the  bread  crumbs  and  the  powdered  summer  savory,  then 
the  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  the  inside  of  this  and  skewer 
well.  Put  two  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork  across  the  breast 
bone,  and  a  pint  of  hot  water  in  the  pan.  Have  a  good 
oven;  baste  frequently  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Put  the 
giblets  on  to  cook  at  the  same  time  you  put  the  chicken  to 
roast;  chop  very  fine,  dredge  some  flour  in  the  pan,  and 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


129 


when  the  gravy  thickens  stir,  in  the  giblets,  adding  salt 
and  pepper.    Serve  the  gravy  in  a  boat. 

TO  BOIL  A  CHICKEN. 

One  fat,  tender  chicken, 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

Salt,  black  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

Wash  the  chicken  and  wipe  dry;  rub  the  butter  and 
bread  crumbs  together,  and  if  too  dry,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  water  ;  then  put  in  the  powdered  majoram,  salt,  black 
pepper,  and  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg;  stuff  the  chicken  with 
this,  and  skewer  tightly  ;  wrap  a  cloth  around  the  chicken 
and  boil  until  tender,  which  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a 
quarter,  to  an  hour  and  a  half;  make  a  rich  drawn  butter, 
and  stir  in  two  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs;  pour  some  over 
the  chicken  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  boat. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN. 

One  tender  chicken, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

One  bunch  of  parsley, 

A  saltspoonful  of  celery  seed. 

Wash  the  chicken  and  cut  it  up  as  for  frying  ;  put  into 
a  stewpan,  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover  it,  the  celery 
seed  and  salt;  let  it  boil  gently,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises,  until  it  is  tender,  which  will  take  about  one  hour ; 
then  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  put  into  the  stew- 
pan  with  the  well  chopped  parsley;  let  it  stew  fifteen 
minutes  ;  add  the  yelks  of  two  raw  eggs;  stir  as  you 
would  for  custard,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Serve  on 
a  dish  with  boiled  rice  arranged  nicely  around  it.  When 


130 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


putting  the  celery  into  the  stewpan,  put  it  in  a  thin  piece 
of  muslin. 

BROWN  FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN. 

One  chicken, 

One  cupful  of  suet  dripping  or  lard, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

A  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory  tied  in  a  bag, 

Cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  joints,  dividing  the  back  and 
breast  into  two  pieces  each;  lay  these  into  cold  water, 
slightly  salted,  for  half  an  hour,  and  wipe  dry;  roll  each 
piece  in  flour;  heat  a  cupful  of  dripping  or  lard ;  add  the  salt 
and  pepper,  and  when  the  fat  is  at  boiling  point,  lay  in 
the  pieces  of  chicken,  frying  brown  on  both  sides;  when 
all  the  pieces  are  fried,  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  and  cover 
with  boiling  water,  lettiug  the  water  be  an  inch  above  the 
chicken;  it  will  be  well  to  pour  this  water  into  the  frying 
pan  first,  to  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  so  as  to  secure  a 
little  of  the  gravy:  cover  closely,  and  if  the  chicken  is 
tender,  it  will  be  done  in  an  hour  and  a  half.  For  the 
gravy,  take  a  pint  of  what  the  chicken  was  boiled  in,  cream, 
flour  and  butter;  stir  into  the  broth,  and  simmer  until 
it  thickens.  Put  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over 
some  of  the  gravy,  and  put  the  rest  in  a  boat.  Put  the 
summer  savory  in  the  chicken,  when  put  to  boil,  and  take 
it  out  before  making  the  gravy. 

TO  FRY  CHICKEN. 

One  fat,  tender  chicken, 

Two  thin  slices  of  pork, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 

One  teacupful  of  pure  lard. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


131 


Divide  the  chicken  nicely  ;  salt  and  pepper  each  piece, 
using  black  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flower;  then  lay  them 
aside  on  a  board  until  you  get  the  pork  fried  and  the  lard  boil- 
ing. Drop  in  a  few  pieces  at  the  time,  allowing  room  in 
the  pan  for  each  piece  to  be  nicely  turned;  as  fast  as  the 
pieces  are  fried,  put  them  on  a  dish  over  hot  water  to  keep 
them  hot  while  the  gravy  is  being  made;  pour  off  some  of 
the  grease,  dredge  in  flour,  and  let  it  brown;  have  the 
parsley  in  the  cream;  pour  in  a  little  at  the  time,  and  let 
it  get  thoroughly  mixed;  put  the  chicken  back  in  the 
gravy  for  three  or  four  minutes;  then  arrange  on  a  dish 
and  pour  the  gravy  over. 

JAMBALAYA  OF  CHICKEN  AND  RICE. 

One  good  sized  chicken, 

Two  large  tomatoes, 

One  thin  slice  of  pickled  pork, 

One  teacupful  of  rice, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  large  onion. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  gumbo;  peel  and  cut  up  the 
tomatoes  and  onions,  and  fry  all  together;  while  frying, 
slowly,  have  the  rice  boiling,  and  boil  until  it  swells;  add 
it  to  the  chicken,  etc.,  and  fry  until  a  light  brown. 

CURRY. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  curry, 
One  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
One  quart  of  clear  water. 

Prepare  the  meat  as  for  a  stew;  mash  the  yelks  well; 
add  to  them  the  curry,  ginger  and  salt;  mix  well  with  the 
water;  then  put  in  the  flour;  stew  the  meat  in  this  mixture 


132 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


until  done;  serve  with  rice.  Put  the  meat  in  the  center 
of  the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  put  the  rice  around 
it.    By  the  sauce  is  meant  what  the  meat  was  stewed  in. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

One  tender  chicken, 
Two  pints  of  sweet  milk, 
Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
Two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  quart  of  water. 

Divide  the  chicken  as  for  frying,  and  put  it  on  with 
the  quart  of  water,  which  should  be  freshly  boiled.  When 
it  is  done,  take  it  out  of  the  pot;  then  simmer  the  water 
until  reduced  to  a  pint;  then  add  the  salt,  pepper,  milk, 
butter  and  flour.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and  line  a  dish  with 
pie  crust;  fill  it  with  the  chicken;  cover  with  a  top  crust, 
and  bake  slowly  one  hour.  A  little  celery  can  be  boiled 
with  the  chicken  or  a  bunch  of  parsley.  Just  keep  the 
chicken  covered  with  water,  while  it  is  cooking. 

TO  ROAST  DUCKS. 

One  medium  sized  onion, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  summer  savory, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

The  above  ingredients  are  for  stuffing  one  duck. 
Select  a  young  duck,  and  fill  it  with  the  stuffing;  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  and  black  pepper  on  top,  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Lay  two  thin  pieces  of  pickled  pork  across  the  breast 
bone,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  little  hot  water.  Baste 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


133 


frequently,  and  cook  for  an  hour.  Serve  with  brown 
gravy,  made  of  the  giblets  and  currant  jelly. 

TO  ROAST  WILD  DUCKS. 

Some  currant  jelly, 
A  few  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
One  thin  slice  of  pickled  pork, 
Salt,  pepper  and  flour. 

Do  not  stuff,  but  put  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper 
inside  of  the  duck;  sprinkle  flour  and  salt  on  the  outside, 
and  lay  the  slice  of  pork  across  the  breast  bone.  Put  it 
in  the  pan  with  a  pint  of  hot  water;  have  a  hot  fire,  and 
baste  frequently  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  the  size.  Make  a  brown  gravy;  stir  in  currant  jelly 
to  the  taste,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon  and  small  sprigs  of  parsley. 

TO  COOK  CANVAS  BACK  DUCKS. 

One  canvas  back  duck, 
Some  currant  jelly, 
Salt  and  black  pepper. 

Wipe  out  the  inside  of  the  duck,  and  if  at  all  strong, 
wash  out  with  a  little  saleratus  water;  sprinkle  the  inside 
with  black  pepper,  also  sprinkle  a  little  on  the  outside, 
with  some  salt  and  flour;  lay  a  thin  slice  of  pickled  pork 
across  the  breast  bone;  have  a  very  hot  fire,  baste  every  five 
minutes,  and  let  the  duck  cook  just  eighteen  minutes; 
When  putting  the  duck  in  the  pan,  a  pint  of  hot  water 
could  be  put  in  to  baste  with.  Make  a  brown  gravy  of 
clear  soup,  currant  jelly,  and  wine  to  the  taste.  Serve 
quickly,  as  a  canvas-back  should  never  be  overdone,  or  al- 
lowed to  stand;  some  like  it  just  red  hot  through.  The 
gravy  can  be  omitted  if  objected  to. 


134 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  BROIL  PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

One  fat  young  prairie  chicken, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Pepper  the  chicken,  and  rub  with  a  little  butter;  have 
a  hot  fire;  broil  a  little  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other; 
have  some  more  butter  in  a  pan,  with  pepper  and  salt; 
press  the  chicken  well  in  it,  then  broil  until  done.  Put  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  melted  butter  in  which  it 
was  pressed;  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

TO  BOIL  GROUSE. 

One  good -sized  grouse, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

Salt  and  black  pepper. 

Split  the  grouse  down  the  back;  have  ready  one  half  of 
the  butter  in  a  hot  skillet;  pepper  the  grouse  well;  put  it 
in  the  skillet;  keep  pressing  and  turning  it  all  the  time  it 
is  cooking,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  butter  by  degrees.  Put 
it  on  a  heated  dish;  pour  over  the  gravy  that  is  in  the 
skillet,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley;  roast  a  grouse 
as  you  would  a  canvas-back,  only  cook  it  fifteen  minutes 
longer.    Serve  it  with  wine  and  jelly  in  a  brown  sauce. 

TO  ROAST  QUAILS. 

A  few  oysters. 

Some  bread  crumbs, 

Butter,  salt  and  black  pepper. 

Put  over  each  breast  bone  a  thin  slice  of  pickled  pork, 
and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  For  each  quail  chop  the  soft 
parts  of  two  oysters.  Mix  a  little  butter,  some  of  the 
oyster  liquor,  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  salt,  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste.    Put  this 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


135 


quantity  in  each  bird;  put  them  into  a  pan  with  a  little 
hot  water,  baste  well,  roast  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
quickly;  garnish  the  birds  and  around  the  dish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Another  way  to  roast  quails  is  simply  to  put 
a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  inside  of  each  bird,  with 
the  pork,  etc.,  on  the  outside;  and  baste  well,  or  make  a 
chestnut  stuffing,  as  for  turkey,  and  fill  each  bird  with 
some  of  it. 

TO  BROIL  QUAILS. 

Have  a  quick  fire;  put  the  quails  on  the  broiler,  and 
have  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt  in  a  pan  near  by;  when 
each  side  of  the  quail  has  been  partly  broiled,  press  well 
in  the  pan  holding  the  butter,  etc. ;  drain  each  bird  well, 
return  to  the  broiler,  and  cook  until  done.  Serve  on  some 
nicely  cut  squares  of  toast. 

A  NICE  DISH  OF  QUAILS  AND  TRUFFLES. 

Eight  fat  young  quails, 
One  wineglassful  of  wine, 
Half  a  pound  of  truffles, 
One  pint  of  clear  soup, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  out  the  breasts  of  eight  quails;  divide  them  and 
broil  very  delicately;  cook  the  truffles  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  the  pint  of  clear  soup;  thicken  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
then  add  the  wine;  arrange  the  quails'  breasts  nicely  on  a 
dish;  sprinkle  the  truffles  over  them;  then  pour  over  the 
sauce. 

TO  ROAST  REED  BIRDS. 

Some  nice,  fat  reed  birds, 
Black  pepper,  butter  and  salt. 

Kub  them  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  black  pepper* 
Have  a  good  fire;  put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  little  butter, 


136 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


and  baste  well  for  fifteen  minutes.  These  little  birds  are 
so  delicate  that  you  can  eat  bones  and  all.  They  can  be 
fried  also  in  the  following  manner:  Split  them  down  the 
back;  place  each  bird  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast  to  catch 
the  juices;  sprinkle  them  with  pepper,  and  have  butter  in 
the  pan;  baste  well,  and  allow  about  twelve  minutes,  as 
they  will  cook  quicker  when  split  open. 

TO  ROAST  SNIPE  AND  WOODCOCK. 

Some  snipe  or  woodcock. 

Some  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork, 

Butter,  black  pepper  and  salt. 

First  pluck  them  and  take  the  skin  off  the  heads  and 
necks.  Put  the  heads  under  the  wings,  pepper  each  one 
well,  lay  one  thin  slice  of  pickled  pork  across  the  breast 
bone  of  each  bird  and  skewer  it.  Have  a  bright  fire;  put 
each  bird  over  a  slice  of  buttered  toast,  to  catch  the  trail. 
Put  a  little  butter  in  the  pan  to  start  the  basting,  and 
baste  each  bird  well  every  five  minutes,  cook  twenty  min- 
utes; sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  each  bird,  and  serve 
quickly  on  the  pieces  of  toast  they  were  cooked  on;  gar- 
nish with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  slices  of  lemon. 

TO  ROAST  VENISON. 

A  haunch  of  venison, 
Some  wine  and  currant  jelly, 
Brown  gravy  as  required. 

Sprinkle  the  Venison  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover 
the  whole  with  white  paper  greased  with  butter.  Put  it 
in  the  oven  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  two  or  three  thin 
slices  of  pickled  pork  on  top.  Baste  well  for  about  two 
hours,  then  remove  the  paper,  and  baste  well  for  nearly  an 
hour  longer,  so  as  to  brown  nicely.  Make  a  brown  gravy, 
by  dredging  the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  both  white  and 


THE  KEJNTUt^y  HOUSEWIFE. 


137 


browned  flour,  then  add  wine  and  currant  jelly  to  the 
taste.    Serve  very  hot  in  a  boat. 

TO  BROIL  VENISON  STEAKS. 

Some  nicely  cut  venison  steaks, 

A  few  thin  slices  of  lemon, 

Some  currant  jelly,  and  sherry  wine. 

Have  a  good  fire,  pepper  the  steaks  well,  broil  partly  on 
one  side,  then  on  the  other.  Take  them  off,  rub  with 
butter,  return  to  the  gridiron,  broil  a  few  minutes  longer, 
and  put  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Melt  some  currant  jelly, 
and  while  hot,  add  wine  to  the  taste.  Put  a  few  small 
pieces  of  butter  on  each  steak,  then  pour  the  wine  and 
jelly  over,  which  must  be  very  hot.  If  wine  and  jelly  are 
objected  to,  then  broil  as  you  would  a  beef  steak.  Arrange 
some  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  around  the 
dish. 


SALADS. 


SALAD  DRESSING.— No.  I. 

The  yelks  of  sixteen  eggs, 
Twenty  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 
Fifteen  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
Nine  tablespoonfuls  of  water, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  oil,  vinegar  and  water  in  alter- 
nation, beating  well  all  the  time,  then  the  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper;  put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  under- 
neath, and  stir  constantly  and  rapidly  until  the  consistency 
of  very  thick  custard;  put  it  away  to  get  perfectly  cold. 
This  will  be  sufficient  for  one  large  turkey.  Always  cut 
up  as  much  celery  as  you  have  turkey,  which  must  never 
be  chopped,  but  cut  in  dice.  The  advantage  of  this  dress- 
ing is,  the  proportions  are  so  perfect  that  enough  for  six 
turkeys  can  be  made  in  less  than  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  The  water  is  put  in  to  keep  the  vinegar  from  tast- 
ing too  strong,  or  it  would  destroy  the  taste  of  the  oil  and 
make  the  salad  too  acid.  I  always  use  this  dressing  when 
making  a  large  quantity  of  salad. 

SALAD  DRESSING.— No.  2. 

One  well- boiled  chicken, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  celery  cut  in  dice, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 

Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

Vinegar,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

The  yelks  of  four  eggs. 

138 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


139 


Put  the  cream  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil  stir  in  the  butter,  vinegar,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper, 
lastly  the  well-beaten  eggs;  stir  well  until  it  becomes  like 
thick  boiled  custard;  then  take  it  off  of  the  fire,  put  the 
saucepan  in  cold  water,  and  stir  until  it  cools,  so  as  to 
keep  it  from  curdling;  take  off  the  skin  and  fat  of  the 
chicken,  cut  it  in  dice,  and  with  the  celery,  mix  carefully 
with  the  dressing. 

SALAD  DRESSING. — No.  3. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  ©f  butter, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Five  eggs. 

Scald  the  cream,  stir  the  vinegar  in  the  yelks  of  the 
eggs,  add  the  cream  and  butter,  stirring  well  to  keep  from 
curdling,  until  it  thickens;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  when 
cold,  beat  in  the  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  The 
whites  of  the  eggs  can  be  beaten  very  light  and  added  to 
the  mixture  when  it  is  cold,  but  it  will  be  found  good 
enough  without  them.  A  little  of  the  extract  of  celery  is 
a  great  improvement.  This  will  keep  for  a  week  on  the 
ice. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD. 

The  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

The  yelks  of  two  raw  eggs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard, 

Two  cruets  of  the  best  oil, 

One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mash  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  smoothly  together,  then 
sprinkle  in  the  mustard,  and  beat  in  by  degrees  the  oil  and 


140  THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

vinegar.  Season  to  the  taste,  and  beat  hard  for  a  few  min- 
utes. If  it  is  too  stiff,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Have 
the  sweetbreads  well  cooked  and  picked  to  pieces,  taking 
off  all  of  the  skin.  Put  the  dressing  on  in  alternate  lay- 
ers with  the  sweetbreads,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  small 
heads  of  crisped  lettuce. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Two  cans  of  shrimps, 
Yelks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs, 
Yelks  of  two  raw  eggs, 
Twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 
Salt,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  the  eggs  perfectly  smooth,  then  beat  in  the  oil 
slowly,  alternating  every  third  tablespoonful  with  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and  three  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
When  very  light  add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the 
taste.  Don't  put  this  over  the  shrimps  until  they  are  to  be 
served.  In  the  winter,  cut  up  as  much  celery  as  you  have 
shrimps,  and  mix  in.  In  the  summer,  put  the  shrimps  in 
the  center  of  the  dish,  pour  the  dressing  over  them,  and 
put  delicate  pieces  of  lettuce  around.  Always  put  the 
dressing  on  the  ice  for  a  while  before  serving.  If  this 
quantity  should  not  be  enough,  more  oil,  vinegar  and 
lemon  juice  can  be  beaten  in. 

A  SALAD  OF  CABBAGE  AND  CELERY. 

One  pint  of  cabbage, 

One  pint  of  celery, 

One  teacupful  of  vinegar, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

A  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 

A  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste, 

Yelks  of  two  eggs. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


141 


Beat  the  eggs,  stir  in  the  vinegar,  mustard,  melted  but- 
ter, salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Put  all  into  a  saucepan 
with  boiling  water  underneath,  and  stir  steadily  until  it 
thickens.  When  cold,  add  the  cream.  Cut  the  cabbage 
and  celery  in  small  pieces  ;  mix  well,  and  pour  the  dressing 
over. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

Yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

Yelks  of  two  raw  eggs, 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 

Three  dessertspoonfuls  of  vinegar, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Shave  the  cabbage  with  a  sharp  knife  until  you  have  a 
quart.  Put  it  in  a  dish  and  set  it  on  the  ice  for  an  hour. 
Mash  the  hard-boiled  eggs  smoothly,  then  mix  the  raw 
ones  with  them.  Beat  the  oil  and  vinegar  in  the  eggs, 
alternately,  and  carefully,  to  prevent  curdling.  Lastly, 
add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Have  the  dressing  in  a 
small  bowl,  and  pour  it  over  the  cabbage  as  you  serve  it. 
The  above  quantity  will  be  sufficient  for  six  persons. 


VEGETABLES. 


TO  BOIL  POTATOES. 

When  putting  potatoes  on  to  boil,  always  choose  them 
of  equal  size,  or  the  small  ones  will  cook  too  quickly,  and 
the  large  ones  will  not  be  sufficiently  cooked.  Let  the 
water  be  boiling,  and  put  in  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Either  peel  the  potatoes  or  boil  them  without  peeling. 
Put  them  in  the  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  thoroughly 
done,  which  will  take  about  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  the 
water,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  shake  them  around 
gently,  remove  the  lid,  and  let  them  remain  about  five 
minutes  over  the  fire  to  steam.  They  should  be  dry  and 
flaky.  Never  let  them  remain  in  the  water  a  moment 
after  they  are  done,  and  serve  immediately. 

TO  BAKE  POTATOES  WITH  THEIR  JACKETS  ON. 

Choose  them  of  equal  size.  Have  your  oven  well 
heated,  and  bake  until  tender.  A  large  potato  will  take 
an  hour,  a  medium-sized  one  about  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Serve  as  soon  as  done.  If  underdone,  they  will  be 
very  indigestible  ;  neither  should  they  be  overdone. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

One  quart  of  mashed  potatoes, 
Half  a  teacupf  ul  of  cream, 
One  table^poonl'ul  of  butter, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

142 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


143 


Boil  them  properly,  then  throw  them  into  a  colander 
and  mash  them  well  through  it.  After  they  are  thor- 
oughly mashed,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water 
underneath,  and  add  the  butter,  cream  and  salt.  Beat  well 
for  five  or  ten  minutes  and  serve.  If  cream  is  not  to  be 
had,  use  milk  and  increase  the  quantity  of  butter.  If 
preferred  to  be  baked,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  and  brown 
in  the  oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 

TO  BAKE  POTATOES  WITH  BEEF. 

Mash  and  peel  as  many  potatoes  as  you  have  guests  to 
serve,  and  have  them  all  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible. 
Put  them  in  the  pan  with  the  beef.  If  medium  sized,  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  for  baking  them;  if 
large,  it  will  require  one  hour.  As  often  as  you  bas^e  the 
beef  baste  the  potatoes,  and  when  done  and  nicely  browned, 
serve  them  on  the  same  dish,  arranged  nicely  around  the 
beef. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Eight  good  sized  Irish  potatoes, 
A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Flour,  salt  and  black  pepper. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  slice  them  thin.  Have  ready  a 
deep  dish  that  will  hold  two  quarts.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
potatoes,  dredge  well  with  flour,  then  a  second  layer  of 
potatoes,  which  dredge  again  with  flour,  and  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  and  black  pepper.  On  the  third  layer,  cut  the 
butter  in  small  pieces,  and  arrange  nicely  over  the  potatoes, 
then  fill  up  with  rich  milk  or  cream,  leaving  room  enough 
in  the  dish  to  cook  slowly  for  two  hours.  If  the  potatoes 
should  soak  up  the  milk  or  cream,  add  more,  so  as  to  have 
the  potatoes  creamy,  when  they  go  to  the  table.  Be  sure 
not  to  cook  too  rapidly.  This  Quantity  will  be  sufficient  for 
a  family  of  eight. 


144 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


TO  STEW  POTATOES. 

One  quart  of  boiled  potatoes, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  large  cooking  spoonful  of  butter, 

One  heaping  teaspoonf  ul  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper,  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  and  while  hot,  cut  them  in  dice, 
then  measure  a  quart.  Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan,  and 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  potatoes  and  let  them 
simmer.  While  simmering,  cream  the  butter  and  flour,  put 
into  the  potatoes  and  stir  until  the  milk  is  the  consistency 
of  thick  custard,  then  add  salt  and  a  very  little  black 
pepper.  A  teaspoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley  is  sometimes  a 
pleasant  addition.  Be  sure,  after  putting  the  potatoes  in 
the  milk,  not  to  let  them  cook  long  or  hard  enough  to 
break,  and  get  mushy.  One  pint  of  cream  can  be  used, 
and  in  that  case  leave  out  the  butter. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Three  large  potatoes, 
Half  a  pint  of  fresh  lard, 
A  little  salt. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  cut  them  with  a  potato  cutter 
into  slices  as  thin  as  a  wafer.  Put  them  into  a  pan  of  ice- 
water  for  half  an  hour.  Have  the  collander  in  a  pan  in 
the  oven  with  the  door  open.  Put  a  few  slices  at  the 
time  in  the  boiling  lard,  and  when  a  delicate  yellow, 
take  them  out,  and  put  them  in  the  collander  to  dry, 
sprinkling  a  little  salt  over  them  as  you  put  them  in. 
When  all  are  fried,  put  them  in  a  heated  dish  and  serve. 
A  frying  basket  made  of  fine  wire  is  exceedingly  nice  for 
frying  the  potatoes  in,  as  you  can  take  them  out  of  the  lard 
without  any  trouble,  by  merely  lifting  the  basket  and  pour- 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


145 


ing  them  into  the  collander  to  drain.  The  pan  underneath 
the  collander  is  intended  to  catch  the  grease. 

FRIED  POTATOES. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  slices  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  some  boiling  lard 
and  butter  mixed.  Then  throw  in  the  potatoes,  and  stir 
until  they  are  a  light  yellow.  Put  into  a  sieve  before  the 
fire  for  a  moment;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  and 
serve  in  a  very  hot  dish. 

POTATOES  A  LA  LYONNAISE. 

One  pound  of  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  minced  onion, 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 
One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Slice  the  potatoes.  Put  the  butter  into  a  skillet;  when 
hot,  throw  in  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  fry  until  a  light 
brown;  then  put  in  the  chopped  parsley,  and  when 
thoroughly  mixed  put  into  a  heated  napkin,  which  must 
be  in  a  heated  dish.  Don't  put  the  cover  on  the  dish, 
simply  close  the  napkin  over  the  potatoes. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PARISIENNE. 

Have  a  little  round  potato  cutter  about  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  in  diameter.  Peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  as 
many  small  ones  from  each  potato  as  you  have  guests  to 
serve.  Have  the  lard  boiling,  put  the  little  balls  into  a 
frying  basket,  and  hold  it  in  the  lard  until  the  potatoes 
are  done  and  nicely  browned,  which  will  take  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Take  them  out  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them. 
They  are  nice  to  garnish  a  dish  of  broiled  fish  with,  or  to 
garnish  a  beaf steak  or  game  with.    The  pieces  of  potatoes 


146 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


left  from  the  cutting  can  be  boiled  or  mashed.  Potatoes 
cut  this  way,  boiled  about  fifteen  minutes,  and  dressed 
with  a  nice  white  sauce,  are  very  pretty  with  boiled  fish. 

POTATOES  A  LA  NEIGE. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  for  mashed  potatoes.  Place  the 
dish  they  are  to  be  served  in  over  hot  water,  and  press  the 
potatoes  through  the  colander  into  the  dish,  having  pre- 
viously heated  the  colander.  They  will  look  like  rice  or 
vermicelli,  and  will  be  very  oretty  served  with  venison, 
roast  beef,  or  beef  tongue. 

SHOE-FLY  POTATOES. 

There  is  a  machine  that  comes  expressly  for  cutting 
shoe-fly  potatoes.  The  potatoes  are  cut  in  strips  like 
macaroni.  Have  the  boiling  lard  in  the  skillet,  put  the 
potatoes  in  a  frying  basket,  then  put  the  basket  into  the 
hot  lard,  fry  a  nice  brown  and  they  will  be  done.  Then 
sprinkle  salt  through  them.  Serve  in  a  heated  dish  with 
the  top  off. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.— No.  I. 

Twelve  large  potatoes, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

Salt,  black  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Six  eggs. 

Boil,  peel  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and  let  them  get 
cold;  then  put  them  into  a  bowl  with  the  butter  and  beat 
until  thoroughly  mixed;  then  put  in  the  yelks  of  four  of 
.  the  eggs  and  two  whole  ones;  continue  to  beat  until  very 
light;  add  the  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper  and  parsley;  shape  as 
croquettes,  dip  them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
light  brown.  Serve  immediately.  These  are  particularly 
nice  with  fish. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  147 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.— No.  2. 

Six  large  potatoes, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  wineglassful  of  cream, 

Yelks  of  two  eggs, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Peel,  boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  until  perfectly  smooth; 
add  the  salt,  then  the  butter,  cream,  and  lastly  the  eggs; 
shape  as  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard  a  nice  brown.  It  would  be  well,  after  mix- 
ing, to  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour,  so  as  to 
handle  easily. 

TO  BAKE  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Six  large  sweet  potatoes, 
Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
A  little  salt. 

Boil  the  potatoes ;  when  done,  peel  and  slice  length- 
wise, in  two  or  three  pieces;  first  put  in  a  deep  baking 
dish  a  layer  of  potatoes,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  arranged 
over  the  potatoes;  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  sugar 
and  butter;  lastly  some  thin  slices  of  butter,  and  sugar 
sprinkled  freely  over  them.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot.  Before  sprinkling  sugar  on  top,  sprinkle  about 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  then  the  sugar. 

TO  FRY  TOMATOES. 

Six  large  ripe  tomatoes, 
Half  a  tumblerful  of  cream, 
Some  brown  sugar, 
Salt  and  black  pepper. 


Slice  the 


tomatoes  half  an  inch  thick,  but  don't  peel 


148 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


them.  Put  a  few  slices  at  a  time  into  a  hot  skillet  with  a 
cookings-poonful  of  butter.  Fry  a  good  brown;  take  them 
out  carefully,  place  them  in  a  dish  which  you  must  have 
over  hot  water;  and  over  each  layer,  sprinkle  about  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper. 
When  all  are  fried,  pour  the  cream  into  the  skillet  and 
dredge  in  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  a  drawn 
butter;  stir  until  smooth,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  If 
cream  is  not  convenient,  they  will  be  just  as  good  with- 
out it. 

TO  STEW  TOMATOES. 

Three  pints  of  tomatoes, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  saltspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  brown  sugar, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Peel  and  cut  enough  tomatoes  to  make  three  pints.  Put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  chopped  onion,  salt  and 
pepper.  Let  them  stew  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  the 
bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  butter;  stew  for  an  hour  longer, 
chopping  the  tomatoes  frequently  while  stewing,  then 
serve. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

One  dozen  large  tomatoes, 

One  teacupful  of  chopped  tenderloin, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  ham, 

One  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper, 

Four  pounded  crackers, 

One  large  chopped  onion. 

Cut  off  the  stem  of  each  tomato  and  take  out  the  seed 
and  the  pulp,  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  the  ham,  parsley 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


149 


and  onions,  then  put  in  the  salt  and  pepper,  lastly  the 
crackers.  If  too  stiff,  thin  with  a  little  water  or  soup 
stock.  Fill  the  tomatoes  well  with  this,  put  cracker  pow- 
der and  small  pieces  of  butter  on  each,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  an  hour.  Use  the  tenderloin  of 
beef. 

TO  STUFF  TOMATOES.— No.  2. 

Eiglit  firm,  ripe  tomatoes, 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 

Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  a  little;  mix  with  the  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper.  Out  off  a  slice  from  the  stem  side 
of  the  tomato,  take  out  the  cores  and  seeds;  chop  the 
cores,  and  mix  with  the  stuffing.  Brown  the  onion  slightly 
in  the  skillet  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  put  the  stuff- 
ing in  and  brown  that  a  little  also.  Then  add  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  butter  and  the  egg.  Stir  quickly  to  prevent 
it  from  curdling.  Cook  ten  minutes,  and  stuff  the  toma- 
toes with  it.  Place  them  close  together  in  a  pan;  put 
some  grated  Cheshire  cheese  over  each  tomato;  cover 
closely,  baste  frequently,  and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour. 
Eemove  the  cover  and  brown  nicely. 

TO  BAKE  TOMATOES  WITHOUT  STUFFING. 

Six  good  ripe  tomatoes, 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Half  the  quantity  of  black  pepper, 

One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter. 

Wash  the  tomatoes  nicely,  cut  out  a  little  piece  from 
under  each  stem,  and  put  in  the  little  hollow  a  little  salt, 
black  pepper  and  a  small  pinch  of  butter.    Put  them  in  a 


150 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


baking  dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water;  bake 
and  baste  for  one  hour,  and  after  basting,  brown,  for 
ten  minutes. 

TO  SCALLOP  TOMATOES. 

Eight  large,  full  ripe  tomatoes, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
One  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Pour  scalding  water  over  the  tomatoes,  and  when  well 
skinned,  get  out  the  seeds  and  cut  up  the  tomatoes  fine. 
First,  put  in  one-half  of  the  tomatoes,  then  one-half  of 
the  bread  crumbs;  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  sugar.  Sprinkle 
all  well  over  the  tomatoes  in  layers.  Then  put  in  the 
rest  of  the  tomatoes  and  other  things  with  the  bread 
crumbs  last  and  small  pieces  of  butter  scattered  here  and 
there  on  top.    Bake  one  hour  and  serve. 

TO  BOIL  CABBAGE. 

Two  heads  of  early  York  cabbage, 
One  pint  of  drawn  butter. 

Take  the  medium-sized  heads  of  cabbage,  pull  off  the 
outside  leaves,  cut  through  the  heads  to  the  stalks,  then 
cut  across  the  other  way  to  the  stalks,  but  don't  cut 
through.  Put  them  on  in  a  pot  two  hours  before  dinner, 
in  hot  water  enough  to  cover  well,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  in  the  water.  Boil  steadily  for  one  hour,  pour  off  this 
water,  pour  on  some  more  hot  water,  leaving  out  the  salt, 
and  boil  one  hour  longer.  Put  the  heads  in  a  hot  dish, 
make  a  rich  drawn  butter  and  pour  over  the  heads.  After 
cutting  the  heads,  tie  them  loosely  together  with  a  strong 
cord  and  clip  it  before  putting  the  heads  in  the  dish. 
This  is  delicious  and  perfectly  digestible. 


THE  KENTUCKY 


HOUSEWIFE. 


151 


TO  FRY  CABBAGE. 

Two  quarts  of  cut  up  cabbage, 
Two  thick  slices  of  pickled  pork, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  chopped  cabbage  with  the  pork  into  a  skillet, 
and  cover  with  hot  water.  Keep  it  steadily  frying  for  two 
hours,  add  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  fry  half  an 
hour  longer.  Should  the  water  boil  down,  add  a  little 
more,  but  not  during  the  last  half  hour.  Have  a  heated 
dish  ready,  put  the  pork  in  the  center,  and  the  cabbage 
around  it.    The  cabbage  must  be  freshly  cut. 

HOW  TO  COOK  BEETS. 

Some  sugar  beets, 
Butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  the  beets,  but  don't  trim  the  roots  too  close,  or 
they  will  bleed,  and  lose  their  sweetness.  If  they  are 
young,  cook  three  hours;  if  old,  cook  four  hours.  When 
done,  slice  them,  put  into  a  hot  dish;  add  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  If  any  should  be  left,  pour  vinegar  over  them, 
and  they  will  be  nice  the  next  day. 

SPINACH. 

Wash  and  pick  well;  put  it  in  a  sauce  pan  with  hot 
water  underneath,  with  a  little  salt,  and  no  more  water 
than  remains  on  the  leaves  after  washing.  Keep  the 
water  boiling  underneath  for  an  hour,  taking  care  to  chop 
it  well  with  a  spoon  while  cooking.  Before  serving,  put 
in  a  little  cream,  salt  and  black  pepper.  After  mixing 
well,  steam  for  about  five  minutes,  then  put  into  a  heated 
dish,  and  garnish  the  top  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


152 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape  the  outside  of  the  stalks,  and  cut  off  about  an 
inch  of  the  end.  Tie  them  evenly  in  bundles,  keeping  the 
heads  one  way.  Put  them  in  well  salted  boiling  water, 
and  cook  for  a  half  an  hour,  or  three  quarters,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  stalks.  Drain;  have  some  nicely  cut 
pieces  of  buttered  toast  at  the  bottom  of  a  heated  dish; 
lay  the  stalks  in  regularly,  and  pour  over  them  some  melted 
butter,  or  asparagus  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  SAUCE. 

One  pint  of  water  the  asparagus  has  cooked  in, 
One  cookingspoonful  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste, 
Yelk  of  one  egg. 

Take  the  pint  of  water  the  asparagus  was  cooked  in,  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  underneath  ;  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  add  the  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  the  butter  and 
flour  well  together,  and  stir  in  until  the  sauce  is  the  con- 
sistency of  boiled  custard.  When  putting  in  the  egg  first, 
stir  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  the  boiling  asparagus  water, 
then  put  in  the  saucepan.  This  precaution  is  to  keep  it 
from  curdling. 

TO  COOK  SUMMER  SQUASH. 

One  large  summer  squash, 
Two  tablespoonf uls  of  cream, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Have  the  squash  young  and  tender;  peel,  cut  up,  and 
take  out  the  seeds.  Put  it  on  in  hot  water,  and  cook 
steadily  until  perfectly  done.  Drain  well  and  mash  with 
a  wooden  spoon.    Put  into  a  saucepan,  with  the  butter, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


153 


cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer,  and  stir  constantly,  until 
the  squash  looks  dry,  then  serve  very  hot. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER. 

One  fine  fresh  cauliflower, 

One  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 

One  ounce  of  cracker  powder, 

A  tablespoonf ul  of  butter, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

White  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  cauliflower,  top  down,  in  cold  salt  and  water 
for  an  hour,  then  put  it  in  a  pot  of  well-salted  boiling 
water,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  While  it  is  boiling, 
mix  smoothly  the  butter  and  flour,  let  it  simmer  for  a 
moment,  and  add  to  the  boiling  water,  stirring  until  it 
thickens,  not  forgetting  to  put  in  the  white  pepper  and 
salt  to  the  taste.  Lay  the  cauliflower  in  a  baking  dish, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  then  sprinkle  with  the  Parmesan 
cheese  and  cracker  powder.  Brown  slightly  and  serve 
hot  at  once. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Two  nice  heads  of  cauliflower, 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk  of  cream, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Salt  and  white  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Take  off  the  outside  leaves  of  the  cauliflower  and  cut 
off  the  ends  of  the  stalks.  Put  them,  with  the  heads 
downward,  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Then  put 
them  into  a  pot,  with  plenty  of  fast  boiling  water,  and 
cook  thirty-five  minutes  if  large,  and  twenty-five  if  small. 
In  the  meantime,  put  on  the  cream  to  boil,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  let  it  simmer  until  it  thickens. 
Season  to  the  taste  and  pour  over  the  cauliflower.  If 


154 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


milk  is  used,  rub  the  flour  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  simmer  until  the  milk  thickens. 

CAULIFLOWER   SERVED  WITH   FRIED  CHICKEN. 

One  quart  of  sweet  cream, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  cream  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  under- 
neath; cream  the  butter  and  flour,  and  when  the  cream 
boils,  stir  in  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  salt.  Put  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  just  before  taking  it  off 
the  fire.  Place  the  heads  of  cauliflower  in  the  center  of 
the  dish,  and  pour  some  of  the  dressing  over  them.  Ar- 
range the  pieces  of  fried  chicken  around  them,  pour  the 
rest  of  the  dressing  over,  and  serve  very  hot. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Gather  them  just  before  being  cooked;  shell  and  put 
them  on  in  boiling  water,  just  enough  to  keep  them  well 
covered,  and  when  fresh,  they  will  only  take  twenty  min- 
utes boiling.  If  young  and  tender,  wash  some  of  the  pods 
and  put  them  with  the  peas,  always  keeping  the  water  a 
little  above  them.  Do  not  let  them  boil  too  hard,  or  they 
will  be  mushy.  If  the  water  is  allowed  to  boil  down,  they 
will  be  tough.  If  old,  they  will  require  longer  cooking 
than  twenty  minutes.  Put  in  the  water,  when  putting  the 
peas  to  cook,  about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Some  persons 
like  a  little  sugar;  in  that  case  a  dessertspoonful  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  can  be  put  into  a  quart  of  peas. 

TO  COOK  MARROWFAT  PEAS. 

Three  pints  of  hulled  peas, 

Hot  water  enough  to  cover  them, 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt, 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


155 


These  peas  are  later,  somewhat  richer  in  flavor,  but  not 
quite  so  delicate  as  the  earlier  ones.  Put  the  peas  into  a 
saucepan,  with  the  salt  and  hot  water,  and  keep  them 
covered  while  they  are  cooking.  If  very  young,  let  them 
boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Throw  off  that  water,  and  cover 
them  with  fresh  hot  water,  giving  them  ten  minutes  more 
boiling.  Now  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  butter,  and  stir  in  until  the  water  thickens, 
then  serve.  Don't  allow  them  to  boil  too  hard,  or  they 
will  be  mushy. 

TO  BOIL  GREEN  CORN. 

Trim  off  the  husks  and  silk;  put  the  corn  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes. 

Another  way:  Leave  on  the  silk  and  husks;  put  into  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil 
twenty-five  minutes;  and  take  off  the  husks  and  silk  as 
quickly  as  possible  and  serve. 

TO  STEW  GREEN  CORN. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn, 

One  quart  of  cold  water, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  pint  cupful  of  boiled  milk, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  put  it  on  with  the  quart  of 
water,  and  let  it  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  off  the 
water;  mix  the  butter  and  flour  with  the  milk,  and  add  to 
the  corn.  Let  it  simmer  about  five  minutes,  season  and 
serve. 


156 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CORN  PUDDING.— No.  I. 

Twelve  ears  of  corn, 

Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Grate  the  corn;  then  scrape  the  cob  so  as  to  get  out  the 
milk;  then  add  the  sweet  milk  to  it,  salt,  pepper,  melted 
butter  and  flour,  lastly,  stir  in  slowly  the  well-beaten  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour. 

CORN  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Two  dozen  ears  of  corn, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  pint  of  milk, 

Four  eggs, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
A  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Grate  the  corn,  stir  in  the  milk  and  eggs,  beaten 
together;  then  add  the  butter  (melted)  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour  mixed  with  it;  lastly,  the  salt  and  black 
pepper.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  well-heated  oven.  Should 
this  quantity  be  too  much  for  the  number  of  persons  to  be 
served,  one-half  the  quantity  can  be  made. 

CORN  PUDDING.— No.  3. 

Eight  ears  of  corn, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Three  eggs. 

First  grate  the  corn,  then,  with  a  knife,  scrape  the  cob 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


157 


to  get  out  all  of  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  and  stir 
in;  cream  the  butter  and  flour;  mix  with  the  milk,  then 
add  the  corn;  season  to  the  taste,  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Six  ears  of  corn, 
A  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  egg. 

Grate  the  corn,  beat  the  egg  very  light  and  mix  with 
the  corn;  add  the  cream,  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
quickly  in  hot  lard,  as  fritters. 

GUMBO. 

One  large  chicken, 

Three  large  tomatoes, 

One  large  onion, 

A  quart  of  young  okra, 

Two  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Skin  and  divide  the  chicken.  Peel  and  cut  up  the 
tomatoes  and  onion,  and  with  the  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
and  pickled  pork  fry  until  the  chicken  is  two-thirds  done. 
Boil  the  okra  in  water  enough  to  keep  it  covered  for  one 
hour;  mix  with  the  chicken,  etc.,  and  fry  until  thick, 
stirring  quite  often  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 

TO  FRY  EGG-PLANT. 

fTut  the  egg-plant  into  slices  a  half  an  inch  thick, 
leaving  the  skin  on.  Put  them  in  salt  and  water  and 
keep  them  well  covered,  so  as  to  keep  each  slice  under  the 
water,  and  let  them  remain  one  hour.  Make  a  batter, 
dip  each  slice  in  the  batter  separately,  then  into  the  bread 


158 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


crumbs.  Have  ready  in  a  skillet  some  boiling  lard;  fry 
each  slice  a  nice  brown;  drain,  and  serve  in  a  heated  dish. 
Another  way  is  to  pare  and  cut  each  slice  a  little  less  than 
a  half  an  inch  thick;  drop  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a 
good  brown,  and  salt  and  pepper  them  as  you  take 
them  up. 

EGG-PLANT  PUDDING. 

Two  egg-plants, 
Telks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
A  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram, 
Three  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley, 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  raw  egg. 

Split  the  egg-plants  and  soak  them  in  cold  salt  and 
water  for  two  hours.  Parboil  them,  peel  and  press  out  all 
the  water.  Chop  very  fine,  mash  the  yelks  of  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  very  smooth,  and  mix  with  the  above.  Add  the 
onion,  parsley  and  sweet  marjoram,  rubbed  and  sifted.  Beat 
the  raw  egg  and  mix  well,  adding  lastly,  the  butter 
melted,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Put  into  a  baking-dish 
Tzith  some  grated  cracker  on  top,  and  bake  slowly  for 
half  an  hour. 

TO  FRY  OKRA  AND  CORN. 

One  pint  of  sliced  okra, 

One  pint  of  cut  up  corn, 

Half  a  teacup  ful  of  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  slice  of  pickled  pork, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

First  fry  the  pork,  then  take  it  out,  leaving  only  the 
grease  in  the  pan.  Put  in  the  okra  and  let  it  fry  ten 
minutes \  then  add  the  corn  and  fry  until  thoroughly 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


159 


cooked.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  milk,  pour  it  in  the  okra 
and  corn,  fry  for  five  minutes  longer,  season,  and  serve. 
A  teacupful  of  chopped  tomatoes  fried  with  the  above  in- 
stead of  the  milk,  is  an  improvement,  though  it  is  very 
good  without. 

LIMA  OR  BUTTER  BEANS. 

Shell  them  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  (or  a 
little  longer,  but  not  less)  before  cooking,  as  this  makes 
them  more  delicate.  When  ready  for  cooking,  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them, 
and  a  little  salt.  Let  them  boil  steadily  for  an  hour,  and 
if  young,  they  will  be  done  and  tender;  if  old,  they  will 
take  half  an  hour  longer.  When  done,  pour  off  nearly  all 
the  water,  rub  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour;  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  add  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  the  taste  and  serve. 

TO  COOK  SNAP  BEANS. 

Two  quarts  of  snap  beans, 
One  coffeecupful  of  rich  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste . 

Snap  the  beans,  and  take  every  particle  of  string  from 
them.  Put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  boil  steadily  for  two  hours,  if  young;  if  old,  boil  three 
hours.  Boil  the  milk,  rub  the  flour  and  butter  together, 
and  stir  in  the  milk  until  it  thickens.  Pour  the  milk 
into  the  beans.  Season,  and  simmer  for  five  minutes 
longer,  then  serve. 

TO  BOIL  RICE. 

One  teacupful  of  rice, 
Four  teacupfuls  of  water, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


160 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Pick  and  wash  the  rice,  rubbing  it  hard  with  the  hands, 
and  changing  the  water  until  it  ceases  to  be  milky.  Put 
it  in  the  saucepan  with  the  salt,  and  pour  over  it  the  four 
teacupf uls  of  clear  water.  Let  it  boil  steadily  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  colander,  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan, and,  with  the  top  off,  let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the 
range  for  half  an  hour  to  dry. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

One  teacupful  of  rice, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
One  teacupful  of  milk, 
One  pint  of  water, 
Grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  and 
pour  over  the  milk  and  water  hot.  Let  it  boil  until  the 
rice  is  soft,  say  half  an  hour;  add  the  butter,  sugar, 
and  grated  lemon  rind;  mix  well  and  spread  on  a  large 
dish  until  it  dries.  Shape  as  pears,  roll  each  in  egg,  then 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  let  them  stand  for  twenty  minutes; 
fry  in  boiling  lard  a  cinnamon  brown,  and  serve  hot.  If 
necessary,  drain  the  milk  and  water  from  the  rice  before 
putting  in  the  other  ingredients. 

RICE  CROQUETTES.— No.  2. 

One  large  coffeecupf ul  of  cold  boiled  rice, 

Half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  dessertspoonfuls  of  sugar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Grated  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  salt,  sugar  and  nutmeg;  stir  in 
the  egg  smoothly,  boil  a  minute  and  take  off  to  cool;  add 
the  rice,  boil  two  minutes  longer,  and  set  on  the  ice  to  get 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


161 


stiff.  Shape  as  pears,  dip  into  the  yellow  of  the  eggs, 
then  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  cinnamon  brown  in 
boiling  lard.  When  preferred  without  sugar,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  or  celery  can  be  added. 

TO  STEW  CELERY. 

Four  heads  of  celery, 
Four  tablespoon fuls  of  cream, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  teaspoonf ul  of  flour. 

Wash  the  celery  and  take  off  the  discolored  parts;  if 
there  should  be  much  cut  off,  have  five  heads.  Cut  them 
in  pieces  about  two  inches  long,  cover  with  water  and  boil 
steadily  for  half  an  hour.  Now  add  the  cream,  and  stew 
half  an  hour  longer;  cream  the  flour  and  butter,  put  into 
the  celery,  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  season.  If 
cream  is  not  to  be  had,  substitute  milk,  and  in  that  case, 
add  anowiw;  dessertspoonful  of  butter. 

TO  FRY  CELERY. 

Four  heads  of  celery, 
Two  well-beaten  eggs, 
Four  teaspoonf  uls  of  wine, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  lard, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Cut  the  green  tops  of  the  four  heads  of  celery,  remove 
the  outside  stalks,  and  clean  the  lower  parts  well.  Then 
cut  each  head  in  half,  make  a  batter  of  the  eggs,  wine  and 
salt.  Have  ready  the  lard  and  b  itter  in  a  hot  skillet;  dip 
each  head  in  the  batter,  and  fry  nicely  in  the  lard  and  but- 
ter; put  them  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  melted  butter  over 
them. 


162 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


MACARONI. 

Six  ounces  of  macaroni, 

One  quart  of  tomatoes, 

One  pint  of  clear  soup, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  sugar, 

Two  tablespoonf uls  of  flour, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Don't  break  the  macaroni  up,  but  put  it  in  broken  pieces 
of  suitable  size  into  hot  water,  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt;  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  take  it  off;  have 
ready  the  sauce,  made  in  the  following  manner:  Cook  the 
tomatoes  one  hour,  then  strain;  add  the  clear  soup,  ■ 
sugar,  pepper  and  salt;  let  it  boil,  and  while  boiling, 
cream  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  in,  and  let  it  boil  until  it 
thickens.    Mix  all  together. 

MACARONI.— No.  2. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 

A  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

Half  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  macaroni  until  it  is  tender,  but  not  broken; 
drain  the  water  off,  and  cover  the  saucepan  to  let  it  dry; 
boil  the  milk  and  cream  together;  mix  the  butter  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  and  put  into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring 
in  one  direction  until  it  thickens;  add  the  mustard;  put 
in  a  dish  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  of  cheese,  and  of  sauce, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled;  put  in  the  salt  and  pepper 
just  before  taking  the  sauce  off  the  fire.  Bake  half  an 
hour. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


163 


MACARONI— No.  3. 

Six  ounces  of  macaroni, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

A  coffeecupful  of  cream, 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Boil  the  macaroni  until  perfectly  tender;  boil  the  cream 
and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  the  eggs  until  the  mixture 
thickens;  then  add  the  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper; 
put  the  dish  that  this  is  to  be  served  in  over  hot  water, 
and  arrange  in  the  following  manner:  A  layer  of  the 
macaroni,  then  of  the  sauce,  and  one  of  cheese,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  filled;  serve  very  hot.  This  can  be  put 
in  a  baking  dish,  and  browned  in  the  oven  for  twenty  min- 
utes. If  baked,  sprinkle  cheese  generously  over  the  top, 
and  put  small  pieces  of  butter  with  it. 

MACARONI  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Four  ounces  of  macaroni, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  macaroni  as  in  No.  1,  or  use  spigetti,  which  is 
more  delicate.  Have  the  sauce  made  in  the  following 
manner.  Boil  the  cream,  put  in  the  salt,  pepper  and 
extract  of  celery  to  the  taste.  Let  this  continue  to  boil, 
and  while  boiling,  rub  the  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  in  the 
cream  until  it  thickens.  Arrange  the  macaroni  and  cheese 
in  layers  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over.  Serve 


164 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


immediately.  This  quantity  will  make  enough  for  twice, 
so  only  serve  half  of  it  at  the  time. 

MACARONI  SAUCE.— No  2. 

One  pound  of  veal, 
Half  a  pound  of  chopped  ham, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  whole  allspice, 
One  teaspoonf  ul  of  whole  cloves, 
One  small  carrot,  one  small  onion, 
Six  bay  leaves,  one  can  of  tomatoes, 
One  fourth  of  a  pint  of  sherry  wine, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Have  cold  boiled  ham,  scrape  the  carrot,  peel  the 
onion,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  allspice,  cloves,  bay 
leaves,  tomatoes,  salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  a 
little  mace.  Let  all  boil  until  done,  stirring  carefully  all 
the  time.  Strain,  thicken  the  sauce  by  rubbing  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour  with  the  butter;  stir  in,  and  let  it  simmer 
until  the  consistency  of  custard.  Heat  the  wine  and  pour 
into  the  sauce.  Boil  the  macaroni  twenty  minutes, 
arrange  in  the  dish  a  layer  of  macaroni,  one  of  grated 
parmesan  cheese,  then  pour  over  some  of  the  sauce.  Now 
another  layer  of  macaroni,  etc.,  having  the  last  a  layer  of 
cheese.    Serve  while  hot. 

TO  STEW  ONIONS  WITH  CREAM. 

Six  Spanish  onions, 

Three  teaspoonf uls  of  butter, 

One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 

Half  a  pint  of  cream, 

Salt  and  black  p-pper  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  onions  steadily,  but  not  too  rapidly,  for  two 
hours  and  a  half,  changing  the  water  three  times.  Drain, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  cream,  and  let  them 
simmer  very  gently.    Rub  the  flour  and  butter,  stir  in  the 


THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


165 


onions,  until  the  cream  is  quite  thick;  add  salt  and  black 
pepper,  and  serve  immediately.  Put  the  onions  in  the 
dish  first,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

Time  for  young  onions,  sixty  minutes, 
For  old  onions,  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Take  off  the  outer  layers  until  you  get  to  the  crisp  skin. 
Put  them  on  in  a  plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  a  little  salt. 
Let  them  cook  steadily,  but  not  too  rapidly,  according  to 
the  above  directions.  Pour  off  the  water,  add  a  teacupf  ul 
of  milk  to  a  medium-sized  dish  of  onions,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Simmer  for  five  min- 
utes, and  serve. 

TO  COOK  BURR  ARTICHOKES. 

Get  them  young  or  they  will  not  be  tender.  Wash  them 
in  salted  water;  then  put  them  on  in  boiling  water.  Boil 
until  you  can  pull  off  each  leaf  easily.  Sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over  them;  serve  with  drawn  butter  flavored  with  a 
little  vinegar;  or  with  a  tartare  sauce.  Eat  by  dipping 
each  leaf  in  the  sauce. 

TO  BOIL  TURNIPS. 

Eight  large  white  turnips, 
One  cookingspoonful  of  butter, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  the  turnips;  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  steadily  until 
they  are  tender  enough  to  be  pressed  through  a  sieve, 
which  will  take  over  an  hour.  Return  to  the  saucepan, 
put  in  the  butter,  cream,  salt  and  black  pepper;  stir 


166 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


well  over  a  bright  fire  for  twelve  minutes,  and  serve  very 
hot  with  boiled  mutton. 

TURNIPS  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Four  large  turnips, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Peel  the  turnips,  cut  first  in  strips,  then  in  dice. 
Cover  with  hot  water  and  let  them  cook  until  tender, 
which  will  take  about  an  hour.  Have  ready  the  boiled 
milk ;  drain  the  turnips,  and  pour  the  boiled  milk  over 
them,  and  return  to  the  fire.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together,  and  stir  in  the  turnips,  until  the  milk  thickens; 
add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

TURNIPS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Four  good  sized  turnips, 
One  coffeecupful  of  clear  soup, 
One  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

Peel  the  turnips,  then  cut  into  strips,  and  afterwards  in 
dice.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  simmer  until  half  done,  which  will  take  about  half  an 
hour.  Drain,  and  put  them  into  a  skillet  with  the  cook- 
ing-spoonful of  butter,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Heat  the 
clear  soup,  pour  over  the  turnips,  and  simmer  five  minutes. 
"While  simmering,  rub  the  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  the 
dessertspoonful  of  butter,  stir  in,  and  when  the  soup  is  the 
consistency  of  custard,  pour  into  a  heated  dish  with  a 
cover  to  it,  and  serve. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


167 


TO  STEW  SALSIFY. 

Several  bunches  of  salsify, 

Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Scrape  the  salsify  and  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  long.  Let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes,  then  put 
into  a  pot  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover  well.  Cook  until  tender,  which  will  take 
about  two  hours.  Drain  off  the  water,  except  a  teacupf  ul, 
which  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  milk  ;  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  stir 
in  until  it  thickens.  Season  to  the  taste,  pour  over  the 
salsify,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  This  sauce  will  do  for 
about  a  quart  of  cut  up  salsify. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS. 

One  quart  of  well  boiled  salsify, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour. 

Mash  the  salsify  as  smooth  as  you  can  mash  it.  Add 
the  flour  and  butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper, 
make  into  small  cakes;  dip  into  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs, 
then  drop  in  boiling  lard,  frying  a  nice  brown  as  you 
would  fritters,  or  simply  dredge  the  cakes  with  flour,  and 
fry  as  you  would  a  flannel  cake,  only  using  more  lard. 

TO  BAKE  SALSIFY. 

One  quart  of  well-boiled  salsify, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

A  half  a  teacupful  of  cream, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 

Salt  and  black  pepper  to  the  taste. 


168 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


The  salsify  must  be  boiled  so  as  it  will  mash  perfectly- 
smooth,  then  measure.  Mix  the  bread  crumbs  with  it, 
add  the  butter  and  cream,  then  the  salt  and  pepper.  Bake 
twenty  minutes.  The  bread  crumbs  must  be  grated,  and 
sifted.  Put  some  on  the  top,  with  a  few  small  pieces  of 
butter. 

TO  BOIL  PARSNIPS. 

Eight  large  parsnips, 
One  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
One  gallon  of  water. 

If  the  parsnips  are  young,  and  not  very  large,  scrape 
them  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  water  boil- 
ing, and  salt  in  it.  Boil  until  tender,  which  will  take 
about  an  hour.  If  they  are  old  and  large,  peel  thinly 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Drain, 
put  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  and  serve  with  butter,  black 
pepper  and  salt  put  on  them.  If  to  be  fried,  boil  as  above, 
slice  lengthwise,  fry  in  boiling  lard  and  butter;  brown 
each  side;  drain,  put  in  a  hot  dish,  and  put  butter  and 
black  pepper  on  them.  They  are  very  nice  served  with 
roast  beef  or  mutton. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Five  large  parsnips, 
One  large  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
One  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Black  pepper,  salt  to  the  taste, 
Two  eggs. 

Scrape  and  cut  the  carrots,  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  until  perfectly  tender,  then  mash  smooth;  add  the 
other  ingredients,  lastly  the  eggs.  Make  into  round  cakes 
and  fry  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


169 


PARSNIP  FRITTERS.— No.  2. 

Six  good  sized  parsnips, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  egg. 

Boil  the  parsnips  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  skin  and  mash 
very  fine,  add  the  flour,  the  well  beaten  egg,  and  salt  to 
the  taste;  shape  into  small  round  cakes,  sprinkling  a 
pinch  of  sugar  over  each  cake.  Put  some  lard  and  butter 
into  a  hot  skillet,  put  in  the  cakes,  and  when  nicely  fried 
on  each  side,  serve. 

TO  BAKE  PUMPKINS. 

Three  pints  of  stewed  pumpkin, 
One  teacup ful  of  cream, 
One  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 

Drain  the  pumpkin  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  it  the 
cream,  cornstarch  and  salt.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  and 
bake  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  In  place 
of  the  cream  and  cornstarch  a  coffeecupful  of  mashed 
sweet  potatoes,  mixed  well  with  the  pumpkin,  and  baked 
half  an  hour,  is  very  nice. 

TO  STEW  PUMPKIN. 

Peel  the  pumpkin,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces;  put  into  a  pot,  with  water  enough  to  keep  it 
from  sticking;  simmer  for  three  hours,  and  when  nearly 
done,  take  off  the  cover  to  allow  some  of  the  water  to 
evaporate.  This  is  delicious  either  as  a  vegetable,  for 
puddings,  or  for  corn  bread.  It  will  keep  in  a  cool  place 
for  several  days.  When  perfectly  done  drain  through  a 
sieve. 


170 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


HOMINY  FRITTERS. 

Two  teacupf  uls  of  boiled  hominy, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Four  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Salt  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 

The  hominy  must  be  well  boiled  and  cold;  mash  well 
with  a  spoon;  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk  alternately,  with 
the  well  beaten  yelk  of  the  egg,  then  put  in  salt  to  the 
taste;  sprinkle  the  baking  powder  lightly  through,  lastly 
the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  to  a  froth;  fry  in  boiling  lard, 
as  you  would  fritters. 


TO  BOIL  HOMINY. 

One  quart  of  hominy, 
Two  quarts  of  water, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

TVash  well  in  two  or  three  waters,  rubbing  the  grains 
well  with  the  hands,  so  as  to  whiten  them.  Soak  over 
night,  and  boil  in  the  same  water,  from  four  to  six  hours, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  grains.  Put  the  salt  in  the 
water  in  the  morning,  and  add  boiling  water  continually, 
so  as  to  keep  it  an  inch  above  the  hominy  while  boiling. 
After  boiling  the  time  required,  press  a  grain  with  the 
fingers,  and  if  it  is  soft  it  is  done.  Drain  through  a 
colander,  and  keep  where  it  will  not  get  musty.  This 
quantity  will  do  for  two  or  three  times.  When  heating  it 
over,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  milk,  and  after  it 
has  simmered  about  twentv  minutes,  rub  a  little  butter 
and  flour  together,  which  must  be  according  to  the 
quantity  of  milk,  and  stir  in  until  it  thickens. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


171 


HOMINY  PUFFS. 

One  quart  of  cold  boiled  hominy, 
Four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
Three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
One  coffeecupful  of  sweet  milk, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
Four  eggs. 

The  hominy  must  be  thoroughly  cooked,  and  when 
cold  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  then  the 
flour,  milk  and  salt  in  alternation  with  the  baking  pow- 
der, lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  and 
stirred  slowly  in;  have  the  lard  boiling,  and  drop  in  with 
a  spoon  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Cold  boiled  corn  grits  can 
be  used  in  the  place  of  hominy. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PIES, 


TO  PREPARE  APPLES  FOR  PIES. 

One  quart  of  stewed  apples, 
Yelks  of  four  eggs, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Measure  the  apples  after  being  stewed  and  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.  Add  the  eggs,  butter  melted  and  sugar; 
lastly,  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan over  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  quite  thick.  When 
cold  put  into  the  pies. 


TO  PREPARE  APPLES  FOR  PIES.— No.  2. 

Three  pints  of  stewed  apples, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 
Yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Mash  the  apples,  and  add  the  well-beaten  eggs;  then 
put  in  the  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Cook  in  a  saucepan,  placed 
over  hot  water.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  and  when  cold  put 
in  the  pie  plates,  lined  with  well  made  pastry.  Lemon 
juice  can  be  used  to  flavor,  instead  of  nutmeg. 

173 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


173 


TO  PREPARE  APPLES  FOR  PIES.— No.  3. 

One  quart  of  stewed  apples, 
Yellows  of  four  eggs, 
Two  lemons, 

A  large  cooking- spoonful  of  butter, 
Sugar  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  stir  into  the  apples.  Add  the 
melted  butter,  and  sugar  to  the  taste  ;  lastly,  the  juice 
of  one  of  the  lemons,  and  grated  rind  of  two.  Put  into 
a  saucepan,  with  hot  water  underneath,  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  Let  it  get  cool,  then  put  into  plates  lined  with 
nice  pastry,  and  bake  quickly.  The  whites  can  be  beaten 
and  put  over  the  tops  of  the  pies,  and  browned  in  the 
oven.    The  above  quantity  will  make  three  large  pies. 

A  CHARLOTTE  OF  APPLES. 

Three  pounds  of  apples, 
Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
Six  ounces  of  butter, 
Essence  of  lemon  or  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

The  apples  should  be  pared,  cored,  and  quartered,  be- 
fore weighed.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  above 
ingredients,  except  the  essence,  and  let  them  simmer  until 
perfectly  smooth,  stirring  well  all  the  time  to  keep  from 
burning.  When  cool,  add  the  essence,  and  pour  into  the 
crust. 

TO  MAKE  THE  CRUST. 

Butter  a  plain  mold,  and  line  it  with  slices  of  stale 
bread,  having  previously  trimmed  off  the  crust  and  dip- 
ped them  in  melted  butter.  Out  the  slices  so  as  to  fit 
with  great  exactness  in  the  mold.  Pour  in  the  apples, 
cover  the  top  with  breadcrumbs,  small  pieces  of  butter,  and 


174  THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 

a  little  sugar.  If  a  small  mold,  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  If  a  large  mold,  bake  an 
hour. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE.— No.  2. 

One  dozen  and  a  half  pippin  apples, 
Two  large  cooking-spoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 
The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
Half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  grated  nutmeg, 
Pulverized  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Peel,  core  and  chop  the  apples,  put  them  with  the  above 
ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  with  hot  water  underneath, 
and  stew  until  smooth.  Butter  some  slices  of  bread,  and 
line  a  mold  with  them,  as  you  would  for  Charlotte  russe.  1 
Fill  it  with  the  apples,  and  cover  the  top  with  more  slices 
of  buttered  bread.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  rich 
brown,  and  eat  with  or  without  sauce.  It  will  be  better 
to  butter  both  sides  of  the  slices  of  bread  for  the  top  of 
the  Charlotte. 

« 

A  DELICIOUS  WAY  TO  BAKE  APPLES. 

A  quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine, 
A  few  small  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon 
Some  apples, 
Sugar  to  the  taste. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  put  them  into  a  baking  dish, 
and  fill  each  apple  with  granulated  sugar.  Cover  them  with 
hot  water,  and  let  them  stew  gently;  and,  while  stewmg, 
lay  a  few  small  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon  on  top.  When 
the  apples  are  half  done,  sprinkle  over  them  the  quarter  of 
a  box  of  gelatine,  and  let  them  stew  until  done.  Put  them 
in  a  dish  and  pour  the  juice  over  them.  Let  them  get 
cold.  They  can  be  eaten  with  or  without  cream.  A  few 
pieces  of  lemon  peel  put  in  with  the  cinnamon  is  a  great 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


175 


improvement.  Take  them  out,  also  the  pieces  of  cinnamon, 
before  pouring  the  juice  over  the  apples. 

TO  FRY  APPLES. 

Two  pints  of  apples, 

One  teacupful  of  brown  sugar, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  butter. 

Peel  and  seed  the  apples,  and  slice  as  you  would  for 
preserves.  Have  the  skillet  hot;  put  in  a  dessertspoonful 
of  lard,  and  when  melted  add  one-half  of  the  butter.  Now 
put  in  one-half  of  the  apples;  in  a  few  minutes  turn,  and 
when  nearly  done,  put  in  one-half  of  the  sugar.  When 
they  look  clear  and  like  a  peach  preserve,  take  off,  and  put 
in  a  dish  over  hot  water.  Do  the  rest  the  same  way.  Turn 
them  carefully,  but  do  not  stir  them. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Six  large  apples, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  lemon, 

One  egg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  mix  with 
them  the  well-beaten  yelks,  then  the  apples  that  have 
been  peeled  and  grated;  juice,  and  half  the  grated  rind  of 
the  lemon;  nutmeg  to  the  taste;  lastly,  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  half  an  hour,  and  serve 
either  with  a  hot  sauce  or  cream. 

APPLE  PUDDING— No.  2. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
One  lemon, 
Six  eggs. 

Grate  as  many  apples  as  will  fill  an  ordinary  sized  pud- 
ding dish,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  the 


176 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


melted  butter,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  and 
sugar  to  the  taste.  Put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  not 
water  underneath,  and  stir  for  five  minutes,  after  it  be- 
gins to  simmer;  let  this  cool,  then  put  into  a  dish  lined 
with  nice  pastry,  and  cover  the  top  also  with  pastry.  Bake 
until  a  light  brown. 


TAPIOCA  AND  APPLES. 

Take  a  pint  of  tapioca,  pour  some  hot  water  over  it, 
and  continue  to  add  more  hot  water  to  it  until  it  swells; 
peel  and  core  some  juicy  apples,  fill  each  hole  with  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  sprinkle  sugar  freely  over  the  apples. 
When  the  tapioca  is  perfectly  soft,  put  in  extract  of  lemon 
and  sugar  to  the  taste,  with  a  little  salt.  Pour  it  over  the 
apples  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  The  tapioca  should 
be  put  to  soak  before  breakfast.  Serve  with  cream. 

MERANGUED  APPLES. 

Eight  large  pippin  apples, 
Some  granulated  sugar, 
Three  large  lemons. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples  and  put  them  into  a  deep 
baking  dish.  Fill  each  core  with  sugar;  strain  the  lemon 
juice  on,  put  half  a  pint  of  water  iu  the  dish  and  the 
thinly  shaved  rind  of  one  lemon,  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
scattered  through.  Put  the  dish  into  a  moderate  oven 
and  cook  the  apples  until  they  are  perfectly  tender;  then 
take  them  out  and  let  them  get  perfectly  cold.  Prepare 
some  icing,  adding  to  it  lemon  juice  to  the  taste;  spread 
some  thickly  on  each  apple,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  makes  a  very  nice  simple  dessert. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


vet 


PASTRY. 

One  pound  of  the  best  flour, 
Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  wine  glass  of  ice  water, 
The  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  flour  and  put  in 
a  bowl;  put  the  other  quarter  of  a  pound  in  a  plate.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  in  the  flour, 
with  the  wine  glass  of  ice  water,  so  as  to  make  a  stiff 
dough;  beat  well  with  a  rolling  pin  for  ten  minutes;  roll, 
adding  the  butter  in  four  rollings,  and  the  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  flour.  Put  the  pastry  on  the  ice  for  two  hours. 
This  quantity  will  make  three  large  pies. 


PUFF  PASTE. 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Half  a  pint  of  ice  water. 

Wash  the  butter  in  cold  water,  then  carefully  squeeze 
out  all  the  water.  Divide  in  about  six  parts;  separate  the 
flour,  leaving  half  a  pound  to  sprinkle  with.  Take  the 
pound  of  flour  and  one  piece  of  the  butter,  and  mix  with 
the  ice  water,  using  a  knife  for  mixing,  and  handle  as 
little  as  possible.  Roll  the  paste  from  you,  and  spread 
with  the  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  flour  in,  three  roll- 
ings; then  put  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  two.  In  the 
summer  put  it  in  the  ice  chest.  When  making  out  into 
pies,  cut  off  only  enough  to  make  one  pie  at  the  time,  so 
as  not  to  roll  more  than  once  after  taking  off  of  the  ice. 


178  THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


WASHINGTON  PIE. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  a  cup  of  butter, 
Half  a  cup  of  milk, 
One  egg, 

Two  cups  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  flour,  milk,  and 
well  beaten  egg,  cream  of  tartar  and  soda;  flavor  delicately 
with  vanilla.  Put  in  two  round  tins,  about  an  inch  deep, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

CREAM  FOR  WASHINGTON  PIE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  cornstarch, 
One-third  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  cup  of  milk, 
One  egg. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  add  the  sugar,  egg  and  corn 
starch;  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cut 
the  cake  in  two,  and  when  the  cream  is  cold,  not  stiff, 
spread  it  on  one-half  of  the  cake;  put  back  the  other  half, 
making  two  layers  for  each  cake.  A  little  grated  cocoanut 
can  be  sprinkled  over  the  cream  before  putting  the  cake 
on  it.    This  must  be  served  cold. 

LEMON  PIES. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  cream, 

One  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  three  lemons, 

Six  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  separately,  then  together;  add  the  sugar, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


179 


butter,  cream,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons;  lastly, 
the  cornstarch.  Stir  oyer  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  and 
when  perfectly  cold,  pour  into  pie  plates  lined  with  pastry. 


ORANGE  PIE. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  and  a  half  of  butter, 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  corn  starch, 
Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter,  then  the  well-beaten  yelks 
of  the  eggs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  orange,  nut- 
meg and  cornstarch.  Lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot 
water  underneath,  and  stir  until  thick  and  perfectly 
smooth.  Line  the  plates  with  pastry,  and  when  cool  pour 
into  the  plates  and  bake  quickly. 


BREAD  FRITTERS. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  teacupf uls  of  bread  crumbs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Two  teaspoonf uls  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Nutmeg  and  salt  to  the  taste, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

Two  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk,  and  soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  it  for  ten 
minutes,  in  a  covered  bowl.  Beat  until  smooth;  add  the 
well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  salt,  nutmeg,  soda, 
and  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Lastly 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Serve  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  maple  molasses. 


180 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


BELL  FRITTERS. 

One  pint  of  water, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  pint  of  flour, 

Six  eggs,  one  pint  of  lard. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  pint  of  water;  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  thicken  it  very  smoothly  with  a  pint  of  flour ; 
let  it  remain  a  short  time  on  the  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time, 
that  it  may  not  stick  to  the  pan.  Pour  it  into  a  wooden 
bowl;  add  six  eggs,  breaking  one  and  beating  it  in,  then 
another,  and  so  on,  until  they  are  all  in  and  the  dough  is 
quite  light.  Put  a  pint  of  lard  into  a  pan,  let  it  boil; 
drop  the  fritters  in,  have  them  round  like  bells,  and  fry  a 
light  brown.    Salt  to  the  taste. 

SPANISH  FRITTERS. 

One  loaf  of  bakers'  bread, 

A  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

One  teacupful  of  cream, 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste. 

One  egg. 

Take  off  the  crust,  and  cut  the  inside  of  the  loaf  in 
pieces  three  inches  square  and  one  inch  thick.  Put  the 
sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  well-beaten  egg  in  the 
cream.  Soak  the  bread  well  in  it,  and  fry  in  butter  a  nice 
brown.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

FRENCH  FRITTERS. 

One  quart  of  boiled  milk, 
Flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Salt  to  the  taste. 
Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  milk  and  flour  together  until  a  stiff  batter  is 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


181 


made;  add  the  salt,  melted  butter,  and  well-beaten  yelks  of 
the  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  very  light,  and  stir  in  gradu- 
ally. Have  the  lard  boiling,  and  drop  in  a  cooking-spoon- 
ful at  the  time;  which  is  enough  for  one  fritter.  Serve 
with  golden  syrup. 

BLANC  MANGE. 

Three  pints  of  new  milk, 
One  ounce  of  gelatine, 
Sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  the  saucepan  with  the  gela- 
tine, and  boil  until  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved;  add  the 
other  pint  with  the  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  once  more,  strain 
and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  congeal,  flavor 
with  vanilla  to  the  taste,  and  then  mold.  Any  other  ex- 
tract that  may  be  preferred  can  be  used. 

BLANC  MANGE.— No.  2. 

One  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Extract  of  vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Pour  enough  hot  water  over  the  gelatine  to  cover  it,  and 
when  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  let  it  boil  slowly  for  half 
an  hour,  sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream,  strain  the  gelatine 
into  it  and  let  it  boil  up  once  gently,  then  strain  again 
into  a  mold,  which  has  been  previously  dipped  in  cold 
water. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine, 
One  pint  of  cold  water, 
Whites  of  three  eggs, 
Sugar  to  the  taste, 
Three  lemons, 


182 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  underneath,  and  when 
thoroughly  dissolved  take  it  off  of  the  fire.  Let  it  cool, 
then  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  with  an  egg  beater;  sweeten  to  the 
taste,  and  add  the  juice  of  the  three  lemons,  pour  into  a 
mold  and  put  it  into  a  cool  place  to  get  stiff.  Serve  with 
a  custard  to  be  made  for  it. 


TO  MAKE  THE  CUSTARD  FOR  SNOW  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Three  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar, 
A  dessertspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
The  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
The  yelks  of  three  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  yelks  slowly,  stirring  all  the 
time  to  keep  from  curdling.  Then  put  in  the  sugar, 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  lastly  the  cornstarch.  Stir 
until  it  thickens,  and  when  perfectly  cold  serve  with  the 
pudding.  This  custard  should  be  boiled  in  a  saucepan 
with  hot  water  underneath. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  SNOW  PUDDING. 

Half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

One  pint  of  boiling  water, 

One  teacupful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

Whites  of  five  eggs, 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water,  add  the 
lemon  juice  after  straining  it,  then  the  sugar.  When  cool, 
stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  it 
gets  very  thick,  then  mold  and  serve  with  a  custard  made 
of  the  yelks  of  the  eggs,  and  flavored  with  lemon. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


183 


IRISH  POTATO  DUMPLING. 

One  pint  of  mashed  potatoes, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  ■ 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter, 

One  saltspoonful  of  salt, 

Flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough. 

Eub  the  potatoes  through  the  sieve,  so  as  to  have  it  en- 
tirely free  from  lumps.  Add  the  butter  and.  lard,  half 
and  half,  then  the  salt,  sift  the  baking  powder  into  half 
a  pint  of  flour,  and  with  some  milk  mix  with  the  potato, 
then  add  more  flour,  so  as  to  make  the  dough  quite 
stiff.  Roll  with  any  kind  of  fruit,  have  a  floured  cloth 
ready  and  tie  the  dumpling  in  it.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  two  hours.  Keep  the  pot  well 
filled  with  boiling  water,  and  serve  with  either  a  hot  or 
cold  sauce. 

IRISH  POTATO  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  mashed  potato, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  pint  of  cream, 
Granulated  sugar  to  the  taste, 
Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon, 
Four  eggs. 

Rub  the  potato  through  a  sieve  before  measuring;  stir 
in  the  cream  and  well  beaten  yellows  of  the  eggs,  with  the 
melted  butter,  sugar,  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  well  beaten  whites.  Bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  pudding  dish.  Serve  with  a  hot  or  cold  sauce. 
This  can  also  be  baked  in  pastry. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

Two  pounds  of  boiled,  mashed  sweet  potatoes, 
One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine,  two  of  brandy, 
One  tablespoonful  of  rose  water, 
One  pint  of  rich,  sweet  cream. 


184 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Boil  and  mash 
the  sweet  potatoes;  beat  them  by  degrees  into  the  sugar 
and  butter;  add  five  well  beaten  eggs;  then  the  wine, 
brandy  and  rose  water  mixed;  lastly  the  cream.  Line 
your  pie  plates  with  some  nice  well-made  pastry;  fill  them 
with  the  potato,  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  mashed  sweet  potato, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pint  of  cream, 

One  wineglassf  ul  of  wine, 

Half  a  wineglassful  of  brandy  or  whisky, 

Essence  of  lemon  to  the  taste, 

Granulated  sugar  to  the  taste, 

Three  eggs. 

Stir  the  cream,  in  the  potato  and  butter  melted.  Beat 
the  yellows  of  the  eggs  and  add,  with  the  wine,  brandy, 
lemon  and  sugar.  Stir  well,  and  mix  in  gradually  the 
well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  half  an  hour,  and 
serve  with  hot  or  cold  sauce.  This  will  be  nicer  put  in  a 
pudding  dish  lined  with  pastry,  and  a  layer  of  it  on  the 
top. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes, 

Half  a  coif eecupful  of  butter, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  sugar, 

Half  a  grated  nutmeg, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 

One  glass  of  brandy  or  sherry  wine, 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs, 
spice,  lemon,  and  wine  or  brandy.  Then  beat  in  the 
potato  slowly;  stir  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


185 


and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  half  an  hour.  Eat  with  a 
hot  sauce.  This  can  be  baked  with  an  under  crust  of  pas- 
try, if  preferred. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Two  cupfuls  of  chopped  apples, 
One  cupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
Half  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Have  a  deep  dish;  first  put  in  a  layer  of  chopped  apples, 
tart  ones;  then  some  of  the  brown  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
bread  crumbs,  and  small  pieces  of  butter;  then  another 
layer  of  apples,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the 
last  layer,  of  bread  crumbs,  and  small  pieces  of  butter. 
Steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  by  putting  the  dish  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  a  cover  over  it;  then  uncover  and 
bake  until  well  browned.  Eat  either  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  a  hot  sauce.  Use  a  coffeecup  for  measuring. 

PANCAKES. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
One  small  nutmeg, 
Half  a  pound  of  flour, 
One  pound  of  melted  butter, 
One  pound  of  sugar, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine, 
Sixteen  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  very  light,  add  to  them  the  quart  of  milk, 
grated  nutmeg,  flour  and  melted  butter;  beat  well  for  a 
while,  so  as  to  have  the  flour  free  from  lumps,  then  add 
the  sugar  and  wine,  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites.  Butter 
the  pan,  run  the  pancakes  as  thin  as  possible,  and  when 
colored,  they  are  done.  Do  not  turn  them,  but  lay  each 
one  carefully  in  the  dish,  sprinkling  powdered  sugar,  and 


186 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


spreading  a  little  butter  between  each  layer.  Have  about 
six  pancakes  in  each  plate.  Serve  hot.  Half  of  this  quan- 
tity will  do  for  a  family  of  six. 

SILVER  CAKE  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Half  a  cup  of  butter, 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Whites  of  six  eggs. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  milk  and 
flour  alternately.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth, 
and  stir  in  slowly.  Flavor  with  vanilla,,  and  just  before 
baking,,  put  in  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  with  milk 
enough  to  mix.  Have  the  oven  well  heated,  and  bake 
nearly  an  hour. 

SAUCE. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Yelks  of  two  eggs, 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon, 

One  wineglass  of  wine. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  egg,  juice  and  rind 
of  the  lemon,  lastly  the  wine.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
stir  over  the  fire  till  it  comes  to  a  good  boil. 

GINGER  CAKE  PUDDING. 

One  coffeecupful  of  molasses, 
One  coffeecupful  of  brown  sugar, 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger  and  cinnamon, 

One  teaeupful  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  vinegar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaeupful  of  butter, 

Four  eggs. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


187 


Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs.  Sift  in  the  flour  and  spices, 
mix  the  soda  and  vinegar  in  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  mixt- 
ure. Lastly,  add  by  degrees  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.    Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Two  coffeecupfuls  of  Indian  meal, 
One  coffeecupful  of  molasses, 
A  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
Milk  enough  for  a  batter. 

Scald  one  cupful  of  the  meal  with  a  little  hot  water, 
then  add  the  other  cupful  not  scalded,  the  molasses  and 
butter.  Lastly,  thin  with  the  milk,  and  bake  three  hours 
in  a  slow  oven. 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

o  coffeecupfuls  of  buttermilk, 
Half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda, 
One  egg. 

Beat  the  soda  in  the  buttermilk  and  stir  in  Indian 
meal  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Then  add  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  the  taste;  and  lastly,  the  well  beaten  eggs. 
Boil  in  a  bag  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  eat  with  a  hot  sauce. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice, 

One  quart  of  rich  milk, 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

Wash  the  rice  through  three  waters  and  pick  it  care- 
fully. Stir  in  the  milk,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Put  into 
a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours. 


188 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


RICE  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Two  quarts  of  milk, 

One  teacupful  of  raw  rice, 

One  teacupful  of  granulated  sugar, 

Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

A  dessertspoonful  of  butter. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  two  hours 
and  a  half.    To  be  eaten  hot. 


RICE  PUDDING.— No.  3. 

One  coffeecupful  of  raw  rice, 

Eight  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk, 

One  saltspoonf ul  of  salt. 
Wash  the  rice  through  several  waters,  rubbing  it  well  with 
the  hands  while  washing  it,  which  makes  it  much  whiter. 
Let  it  soak  in  a  pint  of  the  milk  for  one  hour,  then  pour 
over  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour. 
Add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  some  grated  nutmeg  to  the 
taste,  or  ground  cinnamon.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 


RICE  AND  CREAM  PUDDING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

Sugar  and  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  hot  water.  Boil  the 
rice  in  the  pint  of  milk  until  it  is  perfectly  soft,  then  stir 
in  the  gelatine ;  sweeten  to  the  taste  ;  add  the  vanilla. 
Lastly,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir 
slowly  in,    Serve  with  cream, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


189. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  the  best  flour, 
One  teacupful  of  pulverized  sugar, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  and  a  half  of  butter, 
Two  teaspoonf  uls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
One  teacupful  of  sweet  milk 
Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 
One  well-beaten  egg. 

Warm  the  butter  ;  stir  in  the  sugar  and  egg.  Put  the 
cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  after  dissolving  the  soda 
in  the  milk,  add  to  the  flour.  Lastly,  flavor  with  the  nut- 
meg, or  lemon,  to  the  taste.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  slow  oven.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

One  teacupful  of  chopped  suet, 

One  teacupful  of  molasses, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Three  teacupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

One  teacupful  of  raisins  and  currants  mixed. 

Chop  the  suet  as  fine  as  possible,  and  mix  well  with  the 
milk  and  molasses,  then  sift  in  the  flour  and  cloves. 
Dredge  the  currants  and  raisins  with  flour,  and  add. 
Lastly,  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  mixed  with  a  little 
milk.  Steam  three  hours,  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 
Butter  can  be  used  instead  of  suet;  in  that  case,  put  in 
two-thirds  of  a  teacupful. 


190 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


YANKEE  CAKE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  flour, 
One  coffeecupf ul  of  sweet  milk, 
Two  teacupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter 
One  egg. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  very  light; 
then  add  the  flour  and  milk  in  alternation,  with  the 
extract  of  lemon  or  vanilla  to  the  taste.  Lastly,  mix  the 
cream  of  tartar  and  soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk,  and 
stir  in  the  mixture;  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with  a 
hot  or  cold  sauce. 

ROLY  POLY  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk, 
Yelks  of  three  eggs, 
One  coffeecupful  of  sugar, 
A  dessertspoonful  of  butter, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  figs, 
A  piece  of  citron  three  inches  square, 
Vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and 
pour  the  milk  over  them.  Put  in  the  butter  and  vanilla, 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  Cut  the  fruit  and 
almonds  in  small  pieces,  and  put  into  the  custard.  Have 
ready  a  sponge  cake,  that  has  been  baked  in  a  large  stove- 
pan;  spread  the  mixture  over  the  cake  while  both  are  hot. 
Roll,  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 


V 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  191 


FEATHER  CAKE  PUDDING. 

One  coffeecupful  of  white  sugar, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  milk, 

One  tablespoonf ul  of  butter, 

One  coffeecupful  and  a  half  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  to  taste, 

One  egg. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  well-beaten  yelk 
of  the  egg,  then  the  flour  and  milk  alternately;  stir  in  the 
melted  butter,  then  the  flavoring  and  white  of  the  egg 
beaten  very  light;  lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 

The  yelks  of  four  eggs. 

Mix  the  bread  crumbs  and  milk  together;  then  the  well- 
beaten  yelks,  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon. 
Bake  half  an  hour.  When  cold,  spread  the  top  with  any 
kind  of  fruit  jelly.  Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  froth, 
adding  by  degrees  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Spread  this  over  the  pud- 
ding, put  it  in  the  oven  and  brown  nicely.  Bat  with 
cream. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  fresh  figs, 
Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
One  pound  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  pound  of  beef  suet, 
Four  eggs. 


192 


THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Soak  the  figs  for  about  ten  minutes  in  hot  water. 
Drain,  and  chop  very  fine,  and  mix  well  with  the  sugar 
and  suet.  Then  the  well-beaten  yelks  and  the  bread 
crumbs.  Lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Put 
into  a  mold  and  steam,  or  boil,  three  hours.  Eat  with  a 
hot  sauce. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

One  teacupful  of  desiccated  cocoanut, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 
Three  eggs. 

Boil  one  pint  of  the  milk,  and  soak  the  cocoanut  in  it 
for  half  an  hour.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan,  and  as  soon 
as  it  boils,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  yelks  of  the 
eggs,  sugar,  nutmeg;  lastly,  the  cornstarch.  Stir  until  it 
thickens,  then  put  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  quickly 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
stiff,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar,  cover  the 
top  of  the  pudding  with  it,  and  brown  nicely. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Yelks  of  three  eggs, 

One  cofleecupful  of  sugar, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 

Five  large  oranges, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons. 

Boil  the  milk  and,  while  boiling,  stir  in  the  well  beaten 
yelks  of  the  eggs  and  the  cornstarch,  previously  mixed 
with  a  little  water.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time  to  keep  from  curdling.  When  cool,  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  grated  rind.  Peel,  seed  and  slice  the  oranges; 
put  them  in  layers  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  custard  over 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


193 


them.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  to  them,  spread 
over  the  pudding,  and  serve  with  cream,  or  without  it. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Two  coffeecupfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
Three  coffeecupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 
The  juice,  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons, 
One  large  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
One  coffeecupful  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
Five  eggs. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  but- 
ter; let  it  boil,  take  off  the  fire,  and  put  it  away  to  cool 
for  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  yelks  very  light  and  stir  in 
the  mixture,  alternately  with  the  sugar.  Boil  for  five 
minutes,  and  when  cool  pour  into  the  plates  lined  with 
pastry.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  add  slowly 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  and  spread  over 
the  puddings  after  they  are  baked.  Then  put  in  the  oven 
and  brown. 

TARNSPARENT  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
Grated  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 
Six  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  well  beaten 
yelks.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  gently,  then 
the  nutmeg.  Lastly,  sift  in  the  cornstarch.  Put  into  a 
buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an 
hour.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 


194 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


A  SIMPLE  PUDDING. 

Half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
One  cupful  of  molasses, 
One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
Three  cupf  uls  and  a  half  of  flour, 
Two  teacupfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
A  cupful  of  seeded  raisins. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour,  then  the  molasses,  melted  but- 
ter and  raisins.  Lastly  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk.  Steam  for  three  hours,  and  serve 
with  a  hot  sauce.  Be  sure  to  flour  the  raisins  before  put- 
ting them  in  the  pudding.  Use  a  coffeecup  for  meas- 
uring. 

A  BOILED  BREAD  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
Half  a  pint  of  scalded  milk, 
Three  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar, 
Half  a  pound  of  dried  currants, 
One  ounce  of  blanched  almonds, 
Two  ounces  of  citron, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Orange  flower  water  to  the  taste, 
Five  eggs. 

Pour  the  scalded  milk  on  the  bread  crumbs,  and  cover 
for  an  hour;  beat  the  eggs  light,  and  add  to  the  bread; 
also  the  flour,  butter,  sugar,  currants,  and  almonds  that* 
have  been  pounded  as  well  as  blanched.  Lastly,  the 
orange  flower  water  to  the  taste.  Butter  a  covered  mold 
that  will  just  hold  it,  and  boil  steadily  one  hour.  Eat 
with  either  hot  or  cold  sauce. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


196 


BOILED  BREAD  PUDDING. — No.  2. 

Half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 

Half  a  pint  of  scalded  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 

One  ounce  of  butter, 

Two  ounces  of  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  currants, 

Flavor  with  extract  of  lemon  to  the  taste, 

Four  eggs. 

Pour  the  milk  over  the  bread  crumbs  and  cover  for  an 
hour.  Beat  up  the  eggs  until  light,  stir  in  the  flour,  then 
add  to  the  bread  crumbs.  Wash,  pick  and  dry  the  cur- 
rants, flour  them,  and  with  the  sugar,  stir  into  the  mixt- 
ure. Lastly,  add  the  extract.  Flour  a  cloth,  put  in  the 
pudding,  tie  it  tight,  and  boil  for  one  hour.  Serve  with 
a  hot  sauce. 


BAKED  BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Two  coffeecupfuls  of  stale  bread, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
Four  eggs. 

Soften  the  bread  crumbs  with  the  milk,  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  then  melted  butter,  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  mix  through.  Lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  pow- 
der. Have  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  bake  one  hour. 
If  preferred,  this  pudding  can  be  put  in  a  mold  or  bag, 
and  boiled  two  hours.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 


196 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


BAKED  BREAD  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 

Three  sticks  of  cinnamon, 

One  quart  of  milk, 

Grated  rind  of  a  half  of  a  lemon, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,. 

Sugar  to  the  taste, 

Eight  eggs. 

Break  the  cinnamon  into  the  milk,  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes. Strain,  and  when  cold,  stir  in  the  yellows  of  the 
eggs,  alternately  with  the  sugar,  and  bread  crumbs.  Add 
the  lemon,  and  if  desired,  a  little  rose  water,  and  lastly, 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
dish  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  the  top  when  done,  and  serve  either,  with  a  hot  or 
cold  sauce. 

A  SIMPLE  BAKED  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

Extract  of  lemon  to  the  taste, 

A  cooking  spoonful  of  butter, 

The  yelks  of  four  eggs, 

The  whites  of  two  eggs, 

Granulated  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  yelks  very  light  and  stir  in  the  flour ;  then 
the  milk,  melted  butter,  salt,  sugar  and  extract.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in  slowly  ;  lastly,  the  baking- 
powder.  Peel,  core  and  cut  up  six  apples;  put  them  in  a 
buttered  dish,  pour  the  batter  over,  and  bake  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Any  kind  of  fruit  can  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


197 


NONPAREIL  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
One  coffeecupf  ul  of  sugar, 
Grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
A  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 
The  yelks  of  four  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  light,  and  put  in  the  milk. 
Mix  gradually  with  this  the  bread  crumbs  and  butter 
melted  ;  then  the  rind  of  the  lemon.  Bake  in  a  good,  but 
not  too  quick,  oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very 
stiff,  and  add  the  pulverized  sugar  to  them,  beating  until 
a  froth.  Before  putting  in  the  sugar  stir  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  in  it.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly,  or 
any  other  sweetmeat,  and  pour  on  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Return  to  the  oven  to  brown.    Serve  cold  with  cream. 


TAPIOCA  PUDDING  WITH  COCOANUT. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cocoanut, 
One  teacupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  quart  of  milk, 
Four  eggs. 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night;  in  the  morning  pour  off 
the  water.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  tapi- 
oca and  cook  ten  minutes;  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  and 
sugar  together  until  light;  add  to  this  the  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  stir  into  the  tapioca;  boil  ten  minutes  and  pour 
into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  to 
them  three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  and  spread 
on  top  of  the  pudding.  On  top  of  all,  spread  a  thick  layer 
of  cocoanut,  and  brown  in  the  oven  five  minutes. 


198 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


PUMPKIN  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  stewed  pumpkin, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
One  wineglassful  of  wine, 
Nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  the  taste, 
Three  eggs. 

Mix  the  milk  and  pumpkin,  add  the  sugar,  well-beaten 
eggs  and  melted  butter.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot 
water  underneath,  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  When  cool 
add  the  wine,  and  put  into  plates  lined  with  pastry.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

CAKE  PUDDING. 

Two  cupf  uls  of  sugar, 

One  cupful  of  butter, 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  a  pound  cake, 

Two  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  the  eggs,  mix  with  them  the  sugar, 
sweet  milk,  and  butter  melted;  then  add  the  flour,  and 
lastly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  any  flavoring 
that  may  be  preferred.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
serve  with  either  a  hot  or  cold  sauce. 

CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
One  quart  of  rich  milk, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
Vanilla  or  lemon  to  the  taste, 
Two  eggs. 


Mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  milk  until  perfectly 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


199 


smooth,  put  it  in  the  quart  of  milk  and  beat;  then  add 
the  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  the 
sugar  by  degrees.  Lastly,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 
Pour  into  a  mold  to  get  cold.  Serve  with  a  custard 
sauce.  A  dessertspoonful  of  butter  stirred  in  after  the 
eggs  have  been  added,  would  be  an  improvement. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Twelve  tablespoonf uls  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  vanilla  chocolate, 
One  cookingspoonf  ul  of  butter, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Yelks  of  six  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  and  sweeten  to  the  taste  with  granulated 
sugar,  then  add  the  butter  to  it  while  boiling;  cool,  and 
add  the  well  beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  and  grated  choco- 
late. Bake  for  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding,  while  beating,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  pulverized  sugar,  then  spread  evenly  over  the 
pudding  and  brown  nicely.    Eat  with  cream. 

A  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  pound  of  currants, 

One  pound  of  raisins, 

One  pound  of  beef  suet, 

Juice  of  two  oranges, 

Juice  of  one  lemon, 

Six  eggs. 

Seed  the  raisins,  wash  and  pick  the  currants,  dry  them, 
and  flour  both  well;  put  in  the  flour,  sugar,  and  suet,  and 
add  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemon,  and  grated  rind 
of  one  orange.  Lastly,  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir 
in  by  degrees.    Flour  the  pudding  bag,  pour  in  the  pud- 


200 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ding,  and  tie  loosely,  to  allow  the  pudding  to  swell.  Boil 
five  hours.  Serve  with  hot  or  cold  sauce.  Butter  can  be 
used  instead  of  suet,  and  in  that  case  use  a  half  of  a 
pound. 

ICE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
Sugar  and  extract  to  the  taste, 
Five  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  isinglass;  beat  the  eggs  and  milk 
as  you  would  for  custard,  and  when  the  milk  comes  to 
another  boil,  take  it  off.  Have  a  tin  mold  with  a  cover 
to  it,  buttered  and  lined  with  candied  fruits.  Then  pour 
the  custard  in  gradually,  so  that  the  fruit  will  remain  at 
the  bottom.  Put  the  cover  on,  and  bury  the  mold  in  ice 
for  the  whole  day,  only  turning  out  the  pudding  at  the 
moment  it  is  wanted.  The  custard  can  be  sweetened  a 
little,  but  be  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much  sugar,  on  ac- 
count of  the  fruit  being  sweet. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pound  of  flour, 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  cream, 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 

Five  eggs. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  well- 
beaten  yelks,  milk  and  flour,  alternately  with  the  whites, 
which  have  been  previously  beaten  to  a  froth.  Lastly,  the 
raisins  well  dredged  with  flour.  Turn  into  a  well-buttered 
mold,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


201 


SAUCE  FOR  CABINET  PUDDING. 

Yelks  of  four  eggs, 

One  wineglass  of  wine, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  well- 
beaten  yelks,  lemon  and  spice,  lastly  the  wine.  Beat  ten 
minutes,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  under- 
neath, stir  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  a  thick  custard. 
Serve  hot,  with  the  pudding. 

DUTCH  PUFFS. 

Tw®  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  cupful  of  butter, 

Four  cupfuls  of  flour. 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 

Yelks  of  eight  eggs. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  the  flour, 
and  well  beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time, 
so  as  to  have  the  puffs  very  light.  Put  in  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  then  the  baking  powder.  Lastly, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  slowly 
in.  Bake  in  round  molds,  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 
Measure  with  a  large  teacup. 

A  SIMPLE  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  loaf  of  stale  bread, 

One  teacupful  of  stoned  raisins, 

One  teacupful  of  currants, 

One  teacupful  of  light  molasses, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  mixed, 

One  grated  nutmeg. 

Slice  the  bread  very  thin,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  boil- 


202 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ing  water;  cover  closely  until  thoroughly  softened;  mash 
smooth,  and  add  the  raisins  that  have  been  seeded  and 
divided,  and  the  currants  that  have  been  washed,  picked 
and  floured;  aLo  the  spices.  Mix  well  with  the  hands; 
flour  a  pudding  cloth,  or  mold;  pour  in  the  pudding,  and 
boil  one  hour.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

POOR  MAN'S  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  five-cent  loaf  of  baker's  stale  bread, 

One  coifeecupf  ul  of  stoned  raisins, 

One  coffeecupful  of  currants,  washed  and  picked, 

One  large  teacupful  of  molasses, 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves, 

One  grated  nutmeg. 

Slice  the  bread  very  thin;  pour  on  it  a  little  boiling 
water;  cover  it  closely,  and  let  it  stand  until  it  softens. 
Then  mash  very  smooth;  add  the  molasses,  fruit  and  but- 
ter. Mix  well,  and  boil  in  a  pudding  cloth  for  an  hour. 
Serve  with  an  old-fashioned  hot  brown  sugar  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  raisins  stoned,  and  cut  in  half, 
One  pound  of  currants  picked,  washed  and  dried, 
One  pound  of  butter;  eight  eggs, 

One  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  or  a  half  a  pound  of  flour, 
One  cup  of  sweet  milk;  half  a  tumbler  of  wine, 
One  pound  of  sugar;  half  a  tumbler  of  brandy, 
One  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  mace,  mixed, 
One  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Prepare  all  the  ingredients  the  day  before,  except  the 
eggs — beat  them  very  light,  and  add  half  the  milk,  flour 
(or  bread  crumbs  if  used),  and  the  butter.  Sprinkle  the 
fruit  with  flour,  and  mix  in  by  degrees;  then  the -spices  and 
liquor;  beat  very  hard,  and  stir  in  the  remainder  of  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


203 


milk.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  more  bread  crumbs.  Dip 
the  pudding  cloth  into  boiling  water;  shake  it  and  sprinkle 
the  inside  of  it  with  flour.  Lay  it  in  a  deep  pan,  pour  the 
mixture  in  the  cloth;  tie  so  as  to  allow  the  pudding  to 
swell,  and  boil  six  hours.  Turn  out  carefully,  and,  before 
sending  to  the  table,  have  ready  some  blanched  sweet 
almonds,  and  some  citron  cut  in  slices;  stick  tastefully  all 
over  the  pudding,  and  serve  with  a  hot  or  cold  sauce. 
This  pudding  will  be  much  improved  by  adding  somQ  rose 
water,  some  grated  orange,  and  some  lemon  rinds. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

a  wo  pounds  of  cooked  beef, 

One  pound  of  well-boiled  beef  tongue, 

One  peck  of  pippin  apples, 

Three  pounds  of  seeded  raisins, 

Two  pounds  of  citron, 

Three  peeled  and  seeded  oranges, 

Two  peeled  and  seeded  lemons, 

One  quart  of  brandy, 

One  dozen  nutmegs, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose  water, 

Two  ounces  of  powdered  cloves, 

One  pint  of  good  cider, 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Chop  the  meat,  and  fruit,  as  fine  as  possible;  add  the 
brandy,  sugar,  spices  and  rose  water.  Mix  thoroughly, 
then  stir  in  the  cider.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  and  tie  paper 
tightly  over  it. 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS 


WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar 
Six  ounces  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  wine, 
The  yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs.  Thicken  with  the  flour,  and 
put  the  mixture  on  the  fire.  Let  it  boil  until  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  custard,  taking  care  to  stir  well  all  the 
time  it  is  boiling.  Just  before  taking  it  off  the  fire,  heat 
the  wine  and  stir  in. 

PUDDING  SAUCE.— No.  i. 

One  cupful  of  boiling  water, 
Half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
Half  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
Two  wineglassf  uls  of  Madeira  wine, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
Nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  stir  in  the  hot  water,  then 
the  nutmeg;  lastly  the  corn  starch.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
with  hot  water  underneath,  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Just  before  taking  off  the  fire,  add  the  wine.  This  will 
make  sauce  enough  for  a  medium-size  pudding,  say  for  a 
family  of  six.    Should  the  pudding  be  a  large  one,  then 

204 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


205 


the  proportions  must  be  doubled.  Use  a  coffeecup  for 
measuring. 

PUDDING  SAUCE.— No.  2. 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  cupful  of  butter, 
Nutmeg  and  wine  to  the  taste, 
The  yelks  of  three  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  until  very  light;  add  the  sugar,  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  nutmeg.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot 
water  underneath,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  then  put  in 
the  wine.  Serve  very  hot.  Use  a  coffeecup  for  measur- 
ing.   This  will  be  sufficient  for  a  large  pudding. 

PUDDING  SAUCE.— No.  3. 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
Wine  or  brandy  to  the  taste, 
Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  wine  or  brandy  to 
the  taste,  and  lastly  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  boiling  water  underneath,  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.    Serve  very  hot. 

PUDDING  SAUCE.— No.  4. 

One  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
One  pint  of  boiling  water, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
Two  cookingspoonfuls  of  butter, 
Two  wineglassfuls  of  wine, 
Nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  water  and  sugar  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  butter.  Mix  the  flour  with 
a  little  cold  water  until  smooth,  and  stir  slowly  in  the 


206 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


boiling  sugar  until  it  thickens.  Grate  nutmeg  in  to  the 
taste ;  lastly,  heat  the  wine,  and  pour  in.  Use  a  coffee- 
cup  for  measuring  the  sugar. 

HARD  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDING.— No.  I 

Two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
Half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
A  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter,  and  beat  in  the  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  and  nutmeg,  for  about  ten  minutes.  A  wine- 
glass of  sherry  wine  might  be  added.  Pile  lightly  on  a 
pretty  dish  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 

HARD  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Six  ounces  of  butter, 

Six  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  wineglassful  of  wine, 

A  little  grated  nutmeg, 

The  white  of  one  egg. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  very  light,  add  the  well-beaten 
white  of  the  egg,  then  the  wine;  continue  to  beat  until 
it  is  frothy,  then  put  in  the  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Put  it 
in  the  dish  lightly ;  don't  press  it  down. 


CREAMS,  ICES,  ETC 


OMLETTE  SOUFFLE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
Six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Twelve  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk;  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  well,  and  mix 
in  alternately  the  flour  and  sugar;  then  stir  in  the  boiling 
milk,  and  let  it  stand  without  boiling,  after  the  ingredients 
have  been  added  to  the  milk.  One  hour  before  it  is  to  be 
eaten,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  them  into  the 
mixture,  and  flavor  with  any  extract  to  suit  the  taste. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Two  pints  and  a  half  of  rich  cream, 

One  teacupful  of  boiling  water, 

Half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

Half  of  a  vanilla  bean, 

Yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  beat  the  eggs  and  stir  in;  add 
the  sugar  and  vanilla  bean,  split  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the 
gelatine,  and  let  it  boil  up  once;  sweeten  the  cream  to  the 
taste,  beat  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  cus- 

207 


208 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


tard  is  cool,  not  cold,  mix  all  together.  Line  the  molds 
with  sponge  cake,  and  pour  the  mixture  in.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place.  Before  molding  take  out  the  pieces  of  vanilla 
bean. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  cream, 
Half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
Four  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry, 
Extract  of  vanilla  to  the  taste, 
Whites  of  four  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  teacup  of  milk,  then  scald, 
cool  and  strain.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  the  gelatine.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar,  wine 
and  vanilla,  whip  the  cream  and  add  slowly.  When  it 
gets  cold,  put  into  molds  that  have  been  previously  lined 
with  sponge  cake. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— No.  3. 

One  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine, 

One  pint  of  rich  cream, 

Three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

Extract  of  vanilla  to  the  taste, 

The  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Pour  on  the  gelatine  enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve 
it  thoroughly,  then  cool.  Beat  the  cream  and  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  stir  into  the  gelatine  alternately.  Add  the 
sugar  slowly,  and  when  well  mixed,  flavor  with  vanilla ; 
pour  into  a  mold  well  lined  on  each  side  with  sponge 
cake. 


THE    KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


209 


CREAM  FOR  PUFFS. 

One  ounce  of  butter, 
One  pint  of  water, 
Four  ounces  of  flour, 
Two  ounces  of  cornstarch, 
Two  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
Yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Put  the  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  with  the  but- 
ter, to  melt.  When  the  water  boils,  beat  in  the  flour,  and 
cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  to  keep  from 
burning.  Mix  together  cold  the  cornstarch,  sugar  and 
eggs;  add  the  milk,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  until  it 
boils  five  minutes.  When  cool,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla,  and  put  into  the  puffs. 

EGG  KISSES. 

Twelve  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar, 
The  whites  of  six  eggs, 
Vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  beat  the  sugar  in 
lightly,  and  add  the  vanilla  to  the  taste.  Drop  with  a 
tablespoon  on  a  paper  half  an  inch  apart,  and  bake  on  a 
board  one  inch  thick,  in  a  cool  oven  until  the  tops  are  a 
light  brown,  then  slip  a  knife  under,  and  put  two  of  each 
together. 

CREAM  MERINGUES. 

One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar, 

Whites  of  eight  eggs, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla, 

One  quart  of  rich  cream, 

A  small  pinch  of  alum. 

First  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  while  beat- 


210 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ing,  half  a  pound  of  the  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  the 
vanilla,  and  the  alum.  Allow  a  tablespoonful  of  this  for 
each  meringue,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Shape 
smoothly  and  handle  lightly.  Whip  the  cream,  and  add 
the  other  half  pound  of  the  sugar;  also  the  other  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla.  When  very  stiff,  fill  the  meringues.  This 
quantity  should  make  seven  full  meringues. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

Two  coffeecupfuls  of  the  pulp  of  baked  apples, 

One  coffeecupful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

The  whites  of  two  eggs, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 

Beat  the  apples  and  sugar  together;  add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  the  lemon;  lastly,  stir  in  slowly  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve  with  boiled  custard  or  whipped 
cream. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

One  pint  of  sweet,  rich  cream, 

Extract  of  vanilla,  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Pour  over  the  gelatine  enough  warm  water  to  dissolve 
it  thoroughly;  sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream  to  the  taste, 
then  whip  to  a  very  stiff  froth;  stir  in  the  gelatine  when 
it  is  lukewarm,  then  mold  and  put  in  a  cool  place  for 
a  while.    Eat  with  or  without  cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine, 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar 

Vanilla  to  the  taste, 

Three  eggs. 

Put  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  and  other  ingredients  in  a 


/ 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


211 


saucepan,  and  allow  them  to  boil  up  once;  then  add  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.    Mold  and  eat  cold. 

BAVAROISE. 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  quart  of  thick  cream, 
Half  a  pint  of  water, 
One-third  of  a  vanilla  bean. 

Put  the  water,  sugar,  and  bean,  in  a  saucepan;  boil 
until  dissolved;  sweeten  the  cream  to  the  taste,  beat  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  mix  with  the  gelatine  and  water.  When 
lukewarm,  take  out  the  vanilla  bean  and  mold.  Serve 
with  cream  or  a  rich  boiled  custard. 

FLORENCE  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk, 

Yelks  of  three  eggs, 

One  third  of  a  vanilla  bean, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  pint  of  rich  oream, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  cornstarch, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  Madeira  wine, 

Four  square  sponge  cakes. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  eggs  and  sugar;  split  the  va- 
nilla bean,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  the  custard 
while  boiling;  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  and  when  it  thickens, 
take  it  off  to  get  cool.  Beat  the  cream  as  for  charlotte 
russe,  add  the  wine.  Split  the  sponge  cakes  and  line  the 
bottom  of  the  dish;  first  pour  in  the  custard,  then  put  the 
cream  on  top. 

ICE  CREAM. 

Half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Four  pints  of  rich  cream, 

One  pint  of  boiling  water, 

Half  of  a  vanilla  bean. 


212 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Split  the  vanilla  bean,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  gelatine,  sugar,  and  boiling 
water.  Let  this  boil  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved. 
Strain,  and  let  it  get  cool,  but  not  cold.  Take  out  the 
pieces  of  bean,  scrape  the  inside  into  the  gelatine,  and 
stir  in  the  cream.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to  the 
taste.  Put  into  a  freezer,  and  stir  constantly  until  well 
frozen. 

MACAROON  ICE  CREAM. 

One  gallon  of  rich  cream 

One  dozen  macaroons, 

Three  large  oranges, 

One  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla. 

Sweeten  the  cream  to  the  taste,  put  it  into  the  freezer, 
and  when  partially  frozen,  roll  the  macaroons  very  fine 
and  stir  in;  grate  the  rind  of  one  of  the  oranges  and  add, 
with  the  juice  of  the  three;  then  the  vanilla.  Freeze 
hard;  pack  the  freezer  well  with  ice  broken  in  small 
pieces,  and  a  quantity  of  salt,  which  will  keep  the  cream 
until  wanted  to  serve. 

PINE  APPLE  CREAM. 

Two  quarts  of  rich  cream, 

Two  teacupf uls  of  granulated  sugar 

Two  cans  of  pine  apple, 

The  juice  of  two  lemons. 

Beat  the  cream  very  stiff  and  add  two  teacupf  uls  of  the 
sugar,  mixing  thoroughly;  grate  the  pine  apple  very  fine, 
and  put  in  it  the  other  two  teacupf  uls  of  sugar  and  lemon 
juice,  then  stir  in  the  cream.  Pour  two-thirds  of  it  into 
the  freezer,  and  when  partly  frozen  add  the  other  third. 
Freeze  well  and  pack  with  ice  and  salt  to  keep  from 
melting. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


213 


VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

Half  a  gallon  of  thick  cream, 
Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  a  vanilla  bean. 

Boil  the  vanilla  bean  in  a  half  a  teacupful  of  water; 
split  it,  and  scrape  well,  then  put  it  in  the  cream,  with 
the  sugar,  and  freeze,  hard.  Pack  well  as  in  recipe  for 
macaroon  ice  cream. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Two  ounces  of  candied  cherries, 

Two  ounces  of  seeded  raisins, 

Two  ounces  of  candied  apricots  or  peaches, 

Two  ounces  of  candied  citron, 

Four  wineglassfuls  of  Marasquino  cordial, 

One  dozen  waxy  meringues, 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  quart  of  rich  cream, 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Four  dozen  Spanish  chestnuts, 

Half  of  a  vanilla  bean, 

The  yelks  of  twelve  eggs. 

Blanch  the  chestnuts,  take  off  the  skins,  boil  until 
tender,  and  when  cold,  pound  with  the  vanilla  bean,  then 
mix  with  the  sugar  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Make  a  cus- 
tard of  the  eggs  and  milk,  and  mix  with  the  chestnuts 
and  vanilla  bean.  The  night  before  this  is  to  be  made, 
the  fruit  must  be  soaked  in  the  cordial.  Pound  the  mer- 
ingues, half  freeze  the  custard,  stir  in  the  fruit  and  mer- 
ingues; then  whip  the  cream  to  a  froth,  mix  well  with  the 
custard  and  fruit;  freeze  hard  and  mold, 


214 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


PINE  APPLE  ICE. 

Two  cans  of  pine  apple, 
Six  lemons, 
One  quart  of  water, 
Sugar  to  the  taste. 

Grate  the  pine  apple,  squeeze  the  lemons,  and  strain 
the  juice.  Stir  in  the  water  and  sweeten  to  the  taste. 
Put  into  a  freezer  well  packed  with  ice,  and  salt.  Beat 
well  while  freezing,  and  cover  with  salt,  and  ice  to  keep 
until  served. 

FROZEN  SHERBET. 

Three  pints  of  clear  water, 
One  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
The  whites  of  two  eggs, 
The  juice  of  four  lemons. 

Take  six  lumps  of  sugar,  and  rub  them  on  the  rinds  of 
the  lemons  until  the  sugar  is  perfectly  yellow.  This  is 
done  to  get  the  flavor  of  the  rind.  Put  them  in  the  water 
with  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  While  it  is  dissolving  squeeze, 
strain  the  juice,  and  stir  it  in  the  water.  Put  all  into  a 
freezer,  and  when  half  frozen,  add  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs,  and  finish  freezing.  Pack  well  with  salt,  and 
ice  to  keep  from  melting. 

ORANGE  WATER  ICE. 

Eight  large  oranges, 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar. 

Rub  and  squeeze  the  oranges,  as  you  do  lemons.  Pour 
the  juice  over  the  sugar;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  water 
until  it  measures  two  quarts;  then  freeze  well, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


215 


ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Three  pints  of  water, 
Six  lemons, 

A  teacupful  of  Jamaica  rum. 

Squeeze  the  lemons  and  strain  the  juice.  Sweeten  to 
the  taste,  put  into  the  freezer,  surrounded  by  cracked  ice, 
well  packed  with  salt.  When  well  frozen  stir  in  the  rum, 
just  before  you  send  it  to  the  table.  This  quantity  will 
be  sufficient  for  six  persons.  Of  course  it  can  be  increased 
according  to  the  number  to  be  served. 

FROZEN  CUSTARD  WITH  FRUIT. 

Two  quarts  of  new  milk, 
The  yelks  of  eight  eggs, 
One  quart  of  whipped  cream, 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  pint  of  strawberry  preserves, 
One  pint  of  seeded  raisins, 
Half  a  pint  of  finely  chopped  citron, 
One  pint  of  candied  cherries. 

Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  sugar,  and  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  stir  in  the  well  beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs. 
Dissolve  a  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  half  a  teacupful 
of  cold  milk ;  put  it  in  the  custard,  boil  once  and  let  it 
get  cold.  Put  this  in  the  freezer,  and  when  it  begins  to 
freeze,  add  the  fruit;  lastly,  stir  in  slowly  the  well  whipped 
cream.    Freeze  well. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  CUSTARD.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  rich  milk, 

One  pint  of  whipped  cream, 

Yelks  of  three  eggs, 

One  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of  sugar, 

One  pint  of  chopped  fresh  peaches. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together.    Heat  the  milk 


216 


THE    KEXirCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


almost  to  boiling  point  and  add  it  gradually  to  the  beaten 
eggs  and  sngar.  Keturn  it  to  the  kettle  and  stir  con- 
stantly nntil  it  has  thickened  a  little,  taking  care  that  it 
does  not  curdle.  When  the  custard  is  partly  frozen,  add 
the  whipped  cream,  beat  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  then 
stir  in  the  fruit.  Put  all  into  a  mold,  and  surround  it 
with  ice  and  salt.    TThen  stiff  turn  out  and  serve. 

JELLY. 

Two  boxes  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

Three  pints  of  clear  water, 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  teacupful  of  brandy  or  whisky, 

One  quart  of  sherry  wine, 

Juice  of  six  lemons  and  rinds  of  three, 

Two  tablespoonf  uls  of  stick  cinnamon, 

Six  whole  cloves, 

Eighteen  raisins, 

"Whites  of  three  eggs. 

Put  the  water  on  to  boil,  add  the  gelatine,  sugar,  juice 
of  lemons,  and  thinly  cut  rinds;  also  the  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  raisins.  Boil  until 
the  whites  gather  to  one  side,  then  pour  in  the  wine 
and  brandy.  Strain  through  a  bag  and  mold.  Be  careful 
not  to  stir  the  jelly  when  taking  it  up  to  pour  through 
the  bag. 

JELLY.— No.  2. 

One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

One  pint  of  Madeira  wine. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Three  pints  of  clear  water, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  stick  cinnamon, 

TThites  of  three  eggs, 

Four  lemons. 

Cut  the  rind  of  the  lemon  very  thin,  strain  the  juice 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


217 


and  put  it  in  with  the  rind,  water,  sugar,  and  cinnamon, 
broken  in  pieces.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff, 
and  stir  in  the  mixture,  adding  the  crushed  shells.  Let 
this  boil  until  the  eggs  gather  to  one  side.  Let  it  settle 
for  about  five  minutes;  strain  through  a  bag  and  mold. 
Never  leave  the  seeds  of  the  lemon  in.  _ 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Twelve  large  oranges, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Two  ounces  of  isinglass, 

A  teacupf  ul  of  hot  water, 

The  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  pieces  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice. 
If  this  should  not  make  a  pint,  squeeze  more  until  you  get 
a  pint  cup  full.  Put  in  the  sugar,  and  when  it  is  dis- 
solved put  it  on  the  fire.  Dissolve  the  isinglass  in  the  hot 
water  and  stir  into  the  juice;  then  add  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Boil  steadily  for  twenty  minutes; 
strain  slowly  through  a  bag  and  mold.  To  be  eaten 
with  cream. 

CREME  DIPLOMATE. 

One  pint  of  whipped  cream, 
Half  an  ounce  of  gelatine, 
One  teacupful  of  candied  cherries, 
Vanilla  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  water,  and  stir  in  the 
whipped  cream.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  the  taste,  and  beat 
well.  Then  add  sherry  wine  to  the  taste,  and  the  candied 
cherries.  Put  into  a  mold,  and  leave  it  in  a  cool  place 
until  it  gets  stiff. 


I 


218 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ANGEL'S  FOOD. 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
Yanilla  to  the  taste, 
Three  eggs. 

Put  the  milk  and  gelatine  on  the  fire.  Boil  until  the 
gelatine  is  entirely  dissolved,  add  the  well  beaten  yelks  of 
the  eggs,  with  the  sugar.  Let  it  boil  about  five  minutes; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  lightly  the  whites,  beaten 
to  a  froth.    Flavor  with  vanilla  and  mold. 

BIVAVONE. 

Three  pints  of  thick  cream, 
Three  ounces  of  isinglass, 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water, 
Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  of  a  vanilla  bean. 

Beat  the  cream  until  stiff,  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Put  in  the  water  the  isinglass,  sugar  and  vanilla  bean. 
Split  open  and  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  long.  Boil  until 
the  isinglass  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  strain  and  let 
it  cool,  but  don't  let  it  get  stiff;  stir  in  the  whipped  cream 
and  mold.  If  made  in  warm  weather  the  cream  must  be 
surrounded  by  ice,  or  it  will  not  rise.  This  can  be  eaten 
for  a  dessert,  either  with  or  without  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vanilla  chocolate, 
Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk. 
Yelks  of  twelve  eggs, 
Whites  of  five  eggs. 

Grate  the  chocolate  and  put  it  into  the  milk.  "When 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


219 


near  a  boil  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  twelve  eggs, 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  five,  and  sugar.  Boil  for  about 
five  minutes,  stirring  well  to  keep  from  curdling.  Serve 
cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla  chocolate, 

Sugar  to  the  taste, 

Four  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  grated  chocolate,  taking 
care  to  have  it  perfectly  smooth;  beat  the  eggs  lightly, 
sweeten  them,  and  put  them  into  the  boiling  chocolate, 
stirring  well  to  keep  from  curdling;  pour  through  a  sieve 
and  put  it  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  to  thicken.  It 
will  not  curdle  if  you  will  first  pour  in  enough  of  the  boil- 
ing milk  to  the  eggs  to  warm  them,  before  putting  them  in 
the  chocolate;  but  should  it  curdle,  let  it  get  cold,  then 
pour  it  through  the  sieve  again,  and  add  gradually  half  a 
teacupful  of  fresh  milk  while  pouring  through  the  sieve. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.— No.  3. 

Half  a  pound  of  vanilla  chocolate, 
One  tablespoonf  ul  of  cornstarch, 
One  coffeecupful  of  white  sugar, 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
Yelks  of  three  eggs. 

Grate  the  chocolate;  boil  the  milk  and  mix  well;  then 
add  the  sugar  and  eggs,  lastly  the  cornstarch.  Let  it 
boil  three  minutes,  and  when  cold,  cover  the  top  with  a 
little  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Half  a  gallon  of  milk, 
Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste  . 
Six  eggs. 


220 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  take  it  off,  and  let  it 
cool  a  little.  Beat  the  eggs,  pour  the  milk  over  them,  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Sweeten,  and  add  a  little  nutmeg;  then 
put  all  into  a  dish,  and  set  the  dish  in  hot  water  to  bake 
until  stiff  like  jelly. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  FOR  PIES. 

One  teacupf  ul  of  granulated  sugar, 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
Two  lemons, 
Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  well,  stir  in  the  sugar,  melted  butter, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons.  Add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs;  lastly,  the  cornstarch.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  hot  water  underneath.  Stir  until  it  thick- 
ens, and  when  cool,  not  cold,  put  into  the  pies,  and  bake 
quickly. 

VANILLA  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  ounce  of  isinglass, 

One  quart  of  cream, 

Half  a  pint  of  water, 

One  tablespoonful  of  rose  water, 

Vanilla  to  the  taste, 

The  yelks  of  three  eggs. 

Put  the  milk  on,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in 
the  yelks;  add  the  sugar  and  isinglass,  previously  dissolved 
in  the  half  pint  of  cold  water.  When  almost  cold,  whip 
the  quart  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  it;  then  add 
the  rosewater  and  a  little  vanilla.  Put  this  on  the  ice, 
and  half  an  hour  before  serving,  pour  it  into  a  mold 
lined  with  ladyfingers;  also  covering  the  top  with  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


221 


same.  Put  it  back  into  the  ice-chest,  and  when  wanted, 
it  will  turn  out  nicely. 

SPONGE  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  new  milk, 

Yelks  of  three  eggs, 

One  teacupful  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch, 

Vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil;  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs, 
sugar  and  cornstarch  together,  and  pour  the  boiling  milk 
over,  stirring  while  pouring.  Put  back  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  thick,  and  when  cool,  flavor  to  the  taste.  Dip 
some  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  in  wine,  and  line  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  them.  Pour  in  the  custard,  over  the  top 
put  a  meringue,  made  in  the  following  manner  :  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  them  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  After  spreading  this  nicely  over  the  custard, 
brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  cold. 

SPANISH  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
Three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine, 
Eight  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
The  yelks  of  eight  eggs, 
Vanilla  to  the  taste. 

When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  well-beaten 
yelks  of  the  eggs,  and  the  sugar.  Stir  until  it  cools  to 
keep  from  curdling.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  and  when  cool,  mix  it  with  the  custard. 
Flavor,  strain  and  stir  until  cold  to  keep  the  gelatine  from 
separating  from  the  custard.    Mold,  and  eat  with  cream. 


CAKES. 


DIRECTIONS  TO  THE  INEXPERIENCED  FOR  CAKE 

BAKING. 

The  flour  should  always  be  well-sifted  ;  the  sugar  well- 
rolled,  and  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  thoroughly  pul- 
verized before  measuring;  and  the  measurement  should  be 
exact,  in  order  that  an  excess  of  any  ingredient  should  not 
be  used.  Care  must  also  be  taken  in  baking.  An  oven 
too  hot  or  too  cool,  or  an  irregular  heat,  will  cause  clam- 
my streaks  through  the  cake.  If  the  heat  is  not  uniform 
in  all  parts  of  the  oven,  as  is  not  always  the  case,  the  cake 
should  be  turned  around  frequently. 

COOKIES. 

One  teacupful  of  butter, 

Three  teacupf  uls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  grated  nutmeg, 

Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  beat  with  the  sugar;  add 
the  nutmeg  and  soda,  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sour 
cream.  Then  work  in  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll. 
Eoll  very  thin;  cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  will 
make  a  large  number  if  rolled  thin,  as  directed,  and  are 
delicious. 

222 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


223 


TEA  CAKES. 

/■ 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  sugar, 

One  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg, 

Three  eggs. 

Wash  the  butter  well  in  cold  water,  cream  it  with  the 
sugar,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yelks.  Throw  in  the  flour 
lightly  with  the  spices.  Lastly,  beat  the  whites  very  light 
and  mix  in.  Roll  out,,  cut,  sprinkle  each  cake  with  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  bake  quickly  in  buttered  pans. 

TEA  CAKES  — No.  2. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  wineglass  of  brandy, 

One  wineglass  of  wine, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Four  eggs. 

Sift  the  flour,  and  mix  in  the  baking  powder.  Eub  the 
butter  in  and  add  the  cinnamon.  Stir  in  a  little  milk; 
then  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  wine  and  brandy.  Make 
the  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  and  cut.    Bake  quickly. 

TEA  CAKES. — No.  3. 

Three  coffeecupfuls  of  sugar, 

One  coffeecupful  of  butter, 

Three  teaspoonsfuls  of  carbonate  of  ammonia, 

Flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Six  eggs. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  break  in  the  eggs, 


224 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


three  at  the  time,  and  beat  all  well  for  five  minutes.  Put 
in  the  ammonia  and  nutmeg,  then  mix  with  flour  enough 
for  a  very  stiff  dough.    Roll,  cut,  and  bake  quickly. 

TEA  CAKES.— No.  4. 

Two  pounds  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour;  then  cream  with 
the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  well-beaten  eggs  and  nutmeg. 
Roll,  cut,  and  bake  quickly. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  TEA  CAKES. 

Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 

Two  pounds  of  flour, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 

Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  very  light,  mix  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  stir  in  the  eggs  alternately  with  the  flour. 
Lastly,  add  the  cinnamon.  Roll  thin  and  cut  with  a  cake 
cutter.  Bake  quickly.  An  extra  pint  of  flour  will  be  re- 
quired for  the  rolling. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

'Two  pounds  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  sugar, 

One  pint  of  milk, 

One  tablespoonful  of  rosewater, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  nutmeg, 

Four  eggs. 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour,  and  mix  well  with  the 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


225 


hands.  Add  the  sugar,  rosewater,  milk  and  soda.  Lastly, 
the  well-beaten  eggs.  Fry  a  nice  brown  in  boiling  lard. 
Sugar  each  doughnut  well  while  hot. 

CRULLERS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 

A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Six  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  well- 
beaten  yelks  with  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  the 
whites  very  light  and  stir  in  slowly.  Roll  out,  cut  into 
strips,  twist  into  shape  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  light 
brown. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  CRULLERS. 

One  coffeecupful  of  sugar, 
Half  a  coffeecupful  of  butter, 
One  coffeecupful  of  sweet  milk, 
One  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder, 
Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste, 
Flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough, 
Three  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  and  sugar  very  light;  add  the  butter  and 
milk,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough.  Then  the  nut- 
meg, cinnamon,  and  well-beaten  whites.  Lastly  the  bak- 
ing powder.    Roll,  shape  and  bake  as  in  No.  1. 

COCOANUT  CAKES.— No.  i. 

One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut, 
One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar, 
Rose  water  to  the  taste, 
The  whites  of  three  eggs. 


226 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Stir  the  cocoamit  and  sugar  together  over  the  fire  until 
it  begins  to  dry.  Add  the  eggs  without  beating,  and  while 
hot,  flavor  delicately  with  the  rosewater.  Drop  on  greased 
paper,  and  put  into  the  oven  to  brown. 


COCOANUT  CAKES.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  white  sugar, 
Half  a  pound  of  flour, 
Whites  of  ten  eggs, 
Two  cocoanuts, 
Rose  water  to  the  taste. 

Grate  the  cocoanuts,  and  add  to  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs;  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and  the  flour;  lastly, 
the  rosewater.  Have  buttered  white  paper,  drop  the 
cakes  with  a  spoon  on  it,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

COCOANUT  CAKE.— No.  3. 

Two  eggs, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

One  cup  of  sugar, 

Half  a  cup  of  milk, 

Two  cups  of  desiccated  cocoanut, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

A  little  rosewater. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yelks  well  beaten, 
then  the  flour ;  after  the  cocoanut  has  soaked  half  an 
hour  in  the  milk,  mix  it  with  the  above,  then  the  whites 
well  beaten,  rosewater,  lastly  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar, 
mixed  with  a  little  water.  Bake  in  a  good  oven  nearly  an 
hour.  Run  a  straw  through  the  center  of  the  cake,  and  if 
it  is  perfectly  dry,  it  can  be  taken  out  of  the  oven. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


227 


HORSE  MANDERS. 

One  pound  of  flour, 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  a  pound  of  butter, 
Cinnamon  and  mace  to  the  taste, 
Five  eggs. 

Wash  the  butter  well  in  a  little  cold  water,  or  rose- 
water.  Beat  it  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  eggs, 
leaving  out  the  whites  of  two.  Throw  all  into  the  flour, 
and  mix  lightly.  Take  out  small  pieces,  roll  in  sugar  as 
for  jumbles,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CINNAMON  JUMBLES. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 
One  pound  of  butter, 
One  pound  of  sugar, 

Two  tablespoonf  uls  of  ground  cinnamon, 
Three  eggs. 

Eub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  add  the  sugar  and 
eggs  beaten  well  together,  lastly  the  cinnamon.  Eoll,  cut, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Should  the  above  quantity  of 
flour  not  be  sufficient  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to 
roll  well,  add  more. 

CINNAMON  CAKES. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge, 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

One  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

One  coffeecupful  of  granulated  sugar, 

Some  powdered  cinnamon, 

Three  eggs. 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  put  in  it  the  lard,  butter 
and  salt.    Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  let  it  get  lukewarm. 


228 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Add  the  sugar,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  sponge.  Let  it  rise  until  it  gets  quite  light, 
then  roll  and  cut  as  you  do  biscuit.  Mix  up  a  little  butter, 
sugar,  and  powdered  cinnamon,  as  you  would  for  sauce. 
Just  before  baking,  make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  each 
cake,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

JUMBLES. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour, 
One  pound  of  butter, 
One  gill  of  rosewater, 
Five  eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs, 
well  beaten,  separately  ;  then  the  rosewater  ;  lastly,  the 
flour  mixed  lightly  through  the  other  ingredients.  Koll 
into  round  strips  the  thickness  of  your  little  finger,  and 
form  into  rings  the  size  of  half  a  dollar.  Bake  them  in 
tins  about  an  inch  apart,  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
partly  cold,  they  can  be  iced  if  preferred. 

JUMBLES.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  pound  of  flour, 

Half  a  wineglassful  of  rosewater, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Six  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour;  add  the  well  beaten  volks 
and  sugar  in  alternation,  and  beat  very  light;  then  put 
in  the  rosewater  and  nutmeg;  lastly,  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Koll,  shape,  and  bake  in  a  good, 
but  not  too  quick  an  oven. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


229 


JUMBLES.— No.  3. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour;  add  the  sugar,  well-beaten 
eggs  and  nutmeg.  Break  off  small  pieces  of  the  dough 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Shape  into  rings,  sugar  well,  and 
lay  on  well-buttered  tins,  an  inch  apart.    Bake  quickly. 


ANOTHER  RECIPE  FOR  JUMBLES. 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  ground  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  mace, 
One  wineglass  of  wine  and  brandy,  mixed, 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
Six  eggs. 

Cut  the  butter  up  in  the  flour,  add  the  spices,  sugar, 
wine,  and  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  Beat  in  the  eggs, 
and  stir  hard  until  the  whole  becomes  a  soft  dough. 
Shape  as  rings,  sugar  well,  and  put  into  well-greased  pans. 
Bake  quickly. 

MOLASSES  GINGER-BREAD. 

Four  teacupfuls  of  flour, 

Three  teacupfuls  of  molasses, 

One  teacupful  of  butter, 

One  tablespoonful  of  powdered  ginger, 

Two  eggs. 


230 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Mix  the  flour  and  molasses,  then  stir  in  the  well -beaten 
eggs  ;  add  the  melted  butter;  lastly,  the  ginger.  Should 
the  above  quantity  of  flour  not  be  enough  to  make  it  as 
thick  as  pound  cake,  add  more.  Bake  slowly  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

MRS.  DUFFRIES'  GINGER  NUTS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  molasses, 

Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

Two  ounces  of  ground  ginger, 

Extract  of  lemon  to  the  taste. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  the  molasses, 
and  with  the  hands  mix  in  the  flour ;  lastly,  the  ground 
ginger  and  extract.  Roll  out  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  a 
good  oven. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

Six  cupfuls  of  flour, 

Two  cupfuls  of  molasses, 

Two  cupfuls  of  lard  and  butter,  mixed, 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

One  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Four  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter,  lard  and  molasses  together.  Stir  in  the 
flour  and  sugar  alternately,  then  the  milk,  ginger,  and  well- 
beaten  yelks.  Beat  the  whites  very  light  and  mix  through 
slowly.  Lastly,  sift  in  the  baking  powder.  Divide  in  two 
or  three  pans,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  This  is  good  either 
warm  or  cold.    Use  a  coffee  cup  for  measuring. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


231 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD.— No  2. 

Six  cupfuls  of  flour, 

One  cupful  of  butter, 

One  cupful  of  lard, 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

Two  cupfuls  of  molasses, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Four  eggs. 

Put  the  butter  and  lard  on  the  fire,  and  when  melted, 
add  the  molasses.  Then  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk  bv 
degrees,  and  the  ginger.  Beat  in  the  mixture  the  yelks 
of  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  and  add  slowly  the  well-beaten 
whites,  and  lastly  sprinkle  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  Divide  in  two  or  three  square  pans,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Eat  either  cold  or  hot.  To  bake  this 
in  one  large  cake  mold  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce,  would 
make  a  delicious  pudding.    Measure  with  a  coffee  cup. 


GINGER  CAKE. 

Three  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

One  cupful  of  molasses, 

One  cupful  of  butter, 

Three  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

One  pint  of  milk, 

The  yellows  of  three  eggs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients and  the  milk;  lastly,  the  baking  powder.  Bake 
quickly. 


232 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


HARD  GINGER  CAKES. 

Half  a  pound  of  flour, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

One  pint  of  molasses. 

Mix  with  the  hand,  the  flour,  butter  and  sugar ;  then 
the  molasses,  adding  more  flour  to  make  the  dough  quite 
stiff.    Koll  and  cut,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

NEWTON  CAKE 

Four  teacupf  uls  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  pulverized  sugar, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  molasses, 

One  teacupful  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  sour  cream, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 

Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour  together,  then  add  the 
molasses,  melted  butter,  and  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the 
eggs.  Beat  the  soda  in  the  cream,  and  stir  in  the  mixture, 
then  the  cinnamon.  Lastly,  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


WHITE  CAKE. 

Two  cupf uls  of  flour, 

One  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar, 

Half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  cupful  of  butter, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  to  the  taste, 

The  whites  of  five  eggs. 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


233 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well- beaten  eggs; 
dissolve  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  in  a  little  milk,  and 
stir  in,  while  adding  the  flour;  then  the  milk,  and  lastly 
the  flavoring.  Bake  immediately,  in  a  moderately  warm 
oven.    Use  a  coffee  cup  in  measuring. 

WHITE  CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Vanilla  or  rose  water  to  the  taste, 

Whites  of  sixteen  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  sugar.  Beat 
well  for  about  five  minutes.  Stir  in  gradually  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  flavor  to  the  taste,  and  bake 
slowly  for  two  hours. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 

Two  pounds  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  mixed, 
One  wineglass  of  brandy, 
Yelks  of  two  eggs. 

Mix  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  the  flour,  butter  and 
spices,  lastly  the  brandy.  Pound  for  five  minutes.  Eoll, 
cut,  and  bake  quickly. 

BANNOCK. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

A  cooking-spoonful  of  butter, 

Cornmeal  enough  for  a  thin  batter, 

Three  eggs. 


234 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Stir  into  the  milk  enough  meal  to  make  a  thin  batter; 
then  add  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs,  sugar,  melted 
butter,  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Lastly,  the  whites 
beaten  very  light.  Bake  in  a  long  tin  pan,  in  a  good  oven. 
Cut  in  squares,  and  serve  hot. 

ANGEL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

One  tumblerful  of  flour, 

One  tumblerful  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  cream  of  tartar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs. 

Sift  the  flour  four  times;  add  the  cream  of  tartar,  and 
sift  again.  Sift  the  sugar  four  times.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth;  then  on  the  same  platter,  add  the  sugar  lightly 
to  them;  then  the  flour  slowly,  and  vanilla.  Do  not  stop 
beating  until  the  cake  is  put  in  the  pan  to  bake.  Bake 
forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Turn  the  pan  upside 
down  to  cool,  and  don't  grease  it  before  putting  in  the  cake. 
The  tumbler  for  measuring  should  hold  about  four  gills  and 
a  quarter. 

BISQUIT  SOUFFLE. 

Two  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  flour, 
One  pint  of  milk, 
Vanilla  to  the  taste, 
Six  eggs. 

Put  the  milk  into  the  saucepan  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  and  vanilla  to  the  taste.  Let  it  boil;  then  add  the 
flour,  and  stir  until  it  thickens  and  detaches  itself  from 
the  pan,  which  will  take  about  half  an  hour.  Remove  it 
from  the  fire;  stir  m  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  sift  m 
the  two  ounces  of  sugar.   Have  ready  in  a  skillet  some  hot 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


235 


lard,  in  which  drop  a  tablespoonful  at  the  time,  as  the 
boiling  will  increase  the  size.  When  a  nice  brown,  drain, 
and  sprinkle  sugar  on  each. 

CUP  CAKE. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  flour, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 

Two  teacupfuls  of  sugar, 

Vanilla  to  the  taste, 

Four  eggs. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  thoroughly  with  the  flour,  then 
with  the  butter.  Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  with  the 
sugar,  and  add  the  flour,  then  the  milk  and  whites  of  the 
eggs,  which  have  been  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Lastly,  the  vanilla  to  the  taste.    Bake  in  a  good  oven. 

CUP  CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  coffeecupful  of  butter, 

Three  coffeecupfuls  of  flour, 

Two  coffeecupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour  :  add  the  well-beaten  yelks 
of  the  eggs,  and  sugar,  in  alternation  with  the  milk.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  slowly.  Then  sift 
in  the  baking  powder,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Should 
this  be  used  for  jelly  cake,  put  in  five  eggs,  and  a  whole 
cupful  of  milk.    Flavor  with  any  extract  to  the  taste. 


236 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


CORNSTARCH  CAKE. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  flour, 

One  teacupf  ul  of  cornstarch, 

Two  teacupfuls  and  a  half  of  white  sugar, 

One  teacupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

One  teacupful  of  butter, 

Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs,  milk  and  flour  alternately;  then  the  cornstarch. 
Beat  the  whites  very  light,  and  stir  in  gently;  lastly,  put 
in  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  with  a  little  milk. 
Flavor  with  lemon,  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven.  Eat 
cold,  or  serve  as  a  pudding  with  sauce. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  ground  cinnamon, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  ground  cloves, 

One  tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice, 

One  wineglassful  of  brandy  or  sherry, 

One  teacupful  of  sour  cream, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  grated  nutmeg, 

Six  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour,  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs, 
well  beaten;  sugar,  spices  and  brandy.  Mix  the  soda  with 
the  cream,  and  stir  in.  Lastly  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  froth  and  mix  in  very  slowly.  Bake  slowly  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.  This  is  delicious  served  hot  as  a 
pudding  with  a  hot  sauce, 


THE  KENTUCKY   HOUSEWIFE.  &37 


SPICE  CAKE.— No.  2. 

Three  coffeecupfuls  of  flour, 
One  coffeecupful  of  butter, 
One  coffeecupful  of  milk, 
Two  coffeecupfuls  of  sugar, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  raisins  and  currants,  mixed, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

Two  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder  % 

One  grated  nutmeg, 

Flavor  to  the  taste, 

Two  eggs. 

Stone  the  raisins;  wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants; 
then  flour  well.  Beat  the  eggs  and  stir  in  the  milk,  then 
the  sugar  and  butter  melted.  Beat  well;  add  the  spices 
and  flavoring,  lastly  the  baking  powder.    Bake  slowly. 

A  ONE-EGG  CAKE. 

One  cupful  and  a  half  of  flour, 
One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar, 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
A  heaping  spoonful  of  baking  powder, 
Flavoring  to  the  taste, 
One  egg. 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together;  then  add  the  sugar, 
well-beaten  yelk  of  the  egg  and  flavoring.  Beat  the  white 
of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in;  lastly,  add  the  bak- 
ing powder,  or  you  can  substitute  for  it  a  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Bake 
in  a  well-heated  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  one 
hour;  as  so  much  depends  upon  the  regular  heat  of  the 
oven.    Measure  with  a  coffee  cup. 


238 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

/ ,     Two  cupfuls  of  flour, 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
*/  One  cup  and  a  half  of  grated  chocolate, 
Half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla, 
One  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 
One  cupful  of  butter, 
Four  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  and  add  in  alterna- 
tion the  well-beaten  yelks  and  the  flour.  Boil  the  milk, 
melt  the  chocolate  in  it,  then  mix  it  with  the  butter,  eggs 
and  flour,  and  the  well-beaten  whites.  Lastly,  sift  in  the 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  good  oven.  Measure  with  a 
coffee  cup. 

VANILLA  CAKE. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
Half  a  pound  of  flour, 
Half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
The  whites  of  four  eggs, 
Extract  of  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  alternately  the  flour 
and  well-beaten  eggs.  Lastly,  the  extract  to  the  taste. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

FILLING  FOR  VANILLA  CAKE. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk, 

Two  tablespoonf uls  of  cornstarch, 

The  yelks  of  two  eggs, 

One  vanilla  bean. 

Boil  in  the  milk,  the  vanilla  bean;  add  slowly  the  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  be  careful  not  to  let  the  mixture  curdle. 
Stir  in  the  cornstarch  until  it  thickens.    Take  out  the 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


239 


bean,  and  when  cool  spread  over  the  cake,  and  arrange  in 
layers  as  for  jelly-cake. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  eight  egg3, 

Two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of  flour, 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

Half  a  cupful  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 

Flavor  with  any  extract  to  the  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk  and  extract. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  lightly.  Sift 
in  the  baking  powder,  and  bake  quickly.  Use  a  coffee  cup 
in  measuring. 

GOLDEN  CAKE. 

Yelks  of  eight  eggs, 

Two  coffeecupfuls  of  flour, 

Half  a  coffeecupf  ul  of  butter, 

One  coffeecupful  of  sweet  milk, 

One  cofleecup  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar, 

A  heaping  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 

Extract  of  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
sugar,  and  milk  in  alternation.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Sift 
in  the  baking  powder,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

A  CHEAP  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour, 

One  cupful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Flavoring  to  the  taste, 

One  egg. 

Cream  the  batter  and  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  milk 


240 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


alternately,  then  the  well-beaten  yelk  of  the  egg.  Sift  in 
the  soda  and  the  cream  of  tartar  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 
Lastly,  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  very  light,  and  stir  in 
gradually.  Bake  in  square  tins  twenty  minutes.  Measure 
with  a  coffee  cup. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs, 

Yelks  of  four  eggs, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  flour, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar. 

Beat  the  yelks  separately  until  very  light,  then  together, 
and  add  the  sugar.  Sift  the  flour  three  times  and  stir  in 
slowly;  lastly,  put  in  the  vinegar.    Bake  slowly. 

SPONGE  CAKE.— No.  i. 

The  whites  of  twelve  eggs, 
The  yelks  of  four  eggs, 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
Half  a  pound  of  flour, 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  separately  until  very  light,  mix  the 
together,  add  the  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon 
lastly  the  flour,  through  a  sieve,  a  little  at  the  time. 

SPONGE  CAKE.— No.  2. 

Two  coff  eecupf uls  of  flour, 
Two  coff  eecupf  uls  of  granulated  sugar, 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
Vanilla  or  lemon  to  the  taste, 
Eight  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


241 


sift  the  flour  in  lightly,  then  the  baking  powder.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in  slowly.  Lastly, 
the  extract  to  the  taste.  Bake  slowly  in  a  good  oven,  but 
not  too  quick  a  one. 


COCOANUT  SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  grated  cocoanut, 

Half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon, 

Half  of  a  grated  nutmeg, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt, 

Six  eggs. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  then  add  the 
flour,  salt,  essence  of  lemon  and  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in.  Lastly,  put  in  the 
grated  cocoanut.  Line  square  tin  pans  with  well  greased 
paper,  put  the  mixture  in  an  inch  deep,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  a  half  an  hour.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve 
either  with  or  without  icing. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  thirteen  eggs, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  flour, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  and  add  the  sugar  slowly 
to  them.  Put  the  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour  and  cream 
it  with  the  butter;  then  add  the  eggs.    Bake  slowly. 


242 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


WAFER  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  flour, 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar, 

Two  tablespoonf uls  of  butter, 

Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste, 

Four  eggs. 

Beat  the  yellows  of  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  sugar 
and  flour,  then  the  butter,  melted.  Beat  the  whites  to  a 
froth  and  stir  in  lightly.  Lastly,  the  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg to  the  taste.    Roll  very  thin,  and  bake  in  wafer  irons. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

Whites  of  six  eggs, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  pound  of  sugar, 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  soda, 

One  cup  of  milk. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar;  add  the  flour  and  milk  alternately,  beating  well  all 
the  time.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir 
in;  lastly,  put  in  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  with 
a  little  milk.  Bake  the  cake  in  jelly-pans  in  a  well-heated 
oven. 

THE  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  of  milk, 

Four  ounces  of  sugar, 

Yelks  of  three  eggs, 

One  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch, 

Vanilla  or  lemon  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the 
sugar  and  extract;  lastly,  the  cornstarch.    Stir  until  very 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


243 


thick.  When  cool,  spread  over  the  cake  and  put  one  on 
top  of  the  other,  as  you  would  jelly-cake. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar, 

Four  pounds  of  seeded  raisins, 

Two  pounds  of  currants  that  have  been  washed 

and  dried, 
One  pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin  slices, 
Two  pounds  of  blanched  almonds, 
One  pint  of  cherry  preserves, 
One  pint  of  molasses, 
One  tumbler  of  whisky  or  brandy, 
Two  tablespoonf uls  of  rosewater, 
Half  an  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
Two  ounces  of  ground  cinnamon, 
Three  grated  nutmegs, 
One  dozen  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together.  After  beat- 
ing the  eggs  very  light,  mix  tern  into  the  sugar  alter- 
nately with  the  flour.  Let  the  spices  stand  over  night  in 
the  liquor,  and  add  to  the  above  in  the  morning.  Dredge 
the  fruit  well  with  the  flour,  and  put  in  last.  In  putting 
the  mixture  in  the  mold  to  bake,  distribute  the  almonds 
in  layers. 

CHOCOLATE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Maillard's  chocolate, 

One  pound  of  flour, 

One  pound  of  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  teacupful  of  sour  milk, 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 

Half  a  pound  of  dried  currants, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 

Six  eggs. 


244 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


Beat  the  eggs  separately,  then  together,  and  then  with 
the  sugar.  Sift  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  twice  to- 
gether, cream  with  the  butter,  and  mix  well  with  the  eggs. 
Beat  the  soda  •  in  the  milk.  Pour  enough  boiling  water 
on  the  chocolate  to  dissolve  it,  and  add  to  the  above. 
Seed  the  raisins,  wash,  pick  and  dry  the  currants,  dredge 
well  with  flour  and  stir  lightly  into  the  cake.  Grease  a 
cake-mold  well,  pour  in,  and  bake  slowly  until  thoroughly 
done. 

ICING  FOR  CAKES. 

Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  or  more, 
according  to  the  quantity  desired.  Add  the  extract  of 
vanilla  or  lemon  to  the  taste.  Stir  in  gradually  pulver- 
ized sugar,  until  it  will  spread  nicely  with  a  knife,  and 
always  dip  the  knife  in  cold  water  before  spreading  the 
icing.  As  eggs  vary  in  size,  no  rule  can  be  given  as  to 
the  quantity  of  sugar  required,  but  enough  must  be  added 
to  prevent  its  running,  or  it  will  not  be  hard  or  firm. 
Spread  while  the  cake  is  warm. 

ICING  FOR  CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar, 
Whites  of  four  eggs, 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Pour  over  the  sugar  cold  water  enough  to  dissolve  it. 
Beat  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  and  add  by  degrees  the 
sugar.  Pat  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  and  stir  well 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Put  this  on 
the  cake  with  a  knife,  and  when  smoothing  it  over  the 
cake  dip  the  knife  in  ice  water  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 


PRESERVES,  SYRUPS,  CORDIALS 
AND  CANDIES. 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Ten  pounds  of  full  ripe  strawberries, 
Ten  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Do  not  weigh  the  strawberries  until  they  have  been 
picked.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle,  with  one 
pint  of  water;  let  it  boil  until  perfectly  clear.  Put  in  the 
strawberries,  and  in  five  minutes  they  will  begin  to  boil; 
let  them  boil  twenty  minutes;  skim  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  all  the  scum  that  rises  from  them  while  boiling. 
When  it  ceases  to  rise,  take  out  the  strawberries  with  the 
skimmer,  a  few  at  a  time;  let  the  syrup  boil  five  minutes 
longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.   Seal  tightly  in  glass  jars. 

CHERRY  PRESERVES. 

Twelve  pounds  of  stoned  cherries, 
Twelve  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Stone  the  cherries,  and  save  the  juice  that  escapes 
while  stoning  them.  Pour  this  on  the  sugar,  and  when 
dissolved,  put  it  on  the  fire.  After  it  has  boiled  about 
fifteen  minutes,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  steadily  one 
hour.    Seal  in  glass  jars. 

345 


246 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Eight  pounds  of  peaches, 

Six  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Get  full  ripe  cling-stone  peaches,  either  white  or 
yellow.  Take  a  pen-knife  and  cut  closely  around  the 
stone  until  you  get  it  out,  then  weigh  the  peaches.  Put 
the  sugar  on  them,  and  let  them  stand  one  hour.  Drain 
the  juice  into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil  and  skim  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  put  in  the  peaches;  let  them  boil  steadily, 
skimming  frequently,  until  they  are  perfectly  done.  Take 
them  up  with  a  perforated  spoon,  put  into  glass  jars;  let 
the  syrup  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  pour  over  the 
peaches;  put  brandy  paper  over  each  jar,  and  seal  tight. 

CITRON  OR  WATERMELLON  PRESERVE. 

One  pound  of  pared  watermellon  rind, 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
The  thinly  cut  rind  of  one  lemon, 
Half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

The  rind  of  the  mellon  must  be  carefully  pared  and  cut 
in  pieces  before  weighing.  Cut  in  any  shape  you  choose. 
Soak  the  pieces  a  day  and  night  in  a  little  weak  alum  and 
salt  water.  Rinse  and  boil  in  clear  water  until  you  can 
pierce  them  with  a  fork.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar, 
adding  enough  vinegar  to  keep  from  turning  to  sugar,  and 
boil  the  lemon  rind  in  it  (cut  thin)  and  ginger  until  clear. 
Pour  over  the  fruit  while  hot.  These  proportions  can  be 
increased  as  required. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

To  every  pint  of  currant  juice 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 

Pick  as  many  currants  as  you  intend  preserving;  put 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


247 


them  in  stone  jars,  and  place  them  in  kettles  of  cold  water 
over  the  fire.  Let  the  water  boil  and  keep  it  boiling  as 
high  as  the  fruit;  in  order  to  do  that,  it  will  be  necessary 
to  replenish  with  hot  water  from  time  to  time.  When 
the  currants  are  soft,  press  out  the  juice,  strain  and  meas- 
ure; and  to  as  many  pints  of  juice,  allow  so  many  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  juice  in  the  kettle  to  boil, 
at  the  same  time  spreading  the  sugar  in  large  bread-pans, 
and  putting  it  in  the  oven  to  heat.  When  the  juice  has 
boiled  eight  minutes,  pour  in  the  sugar  and  boil  five 
minutes  longer.  Before  you  fill  the  tumblers,  put  in  a 
teaspoon,  and  by  allowing  the  jelly  to  fall  on  the  spoon 
first,  it  will  prevent  the  glass  from  cracking. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Pour  over  the  cores  and  peelings,  water  enough  to 
cover  them.  Boil  until  tender,  then  strain.  To  a  pint 
of  the  water  put  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  boil 
until  it  will  jelly,  which  you  can  see  by  trying  a  little  of 
it  in  a  saucer  and  placing  the  saucer  over  cold  water. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

Twelve  pounds  of  blackberries, 
Three  pounds  of  white  sugar, 
One  teaspconful  of  soda. 

Pick  the  fruit  and  mash  through  a  colander  with  a 
potato  masher,  throwing  away  the  white  seed,  or  inside  of 
the  berries.  After  it  has  been  mashed,  weigh  it  according 
to  the  above  proportions  and  put  it  on  the  fire.  When  it 
begins  to  boil,  stir  in  the  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  boil  it 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  skimming  carefully  all 
the  time.  Then  add  the  sugar  and  let  it  boil  until  it  gets 
thick,  and  looks  as  though  it  will  be  stiff  when  it  gets 
cold.    Seal  it  tightly  in  glass  jars. 


248 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


RED  RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Eight  pints  of  red  raspberries, 
Two  pints  of  currant  juice. 

Mash  the  raspberries  well,  and  mix  with  the  currant 
juice.  Weigh,  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  granulated 
sugar.  Boil  slowly  until  quite  thick,  then  seal  in  glass 
jars.  Old  currant  jelly  can  be  used,  ?i  the  juice  cannot 
be  had.  In  that  case  only  put  in  sugai^  m  proportion  to 
the  berries. 

TO  BRANDY  GREENGAGES. 

Take  the  quantity  of  greengages  you  wish  to  brandy; 
wipe  them  dry  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  ar^  boil 
only  until  they  are  tender,  but  don't  let  them  burst  open. 
Spread  them  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  when  cold  put  them 
into  jars,  and  fill  the  jars  with  equal  portions  of  syrup,  and 
white  brandy.  The  syrup  should  be  made  rich  and  strong, 
as  the  gages  are  very  acid.  The  proportions  for  a  rich 
syrup  are,  to  every  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  put  in  half 
a  pint  of  water.  Boil  slowly,  and  skim  carefully  until  it 
is  thick  and  clear.    The  gages  must  be  sealed  tightly. 

TOMATO  FIGS. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes, 

Six  pounds  of  brown  sugar. 

Scald  the  tomatoes,  remove  the  skin  in  the  usual  way, 
and  weigh  them.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  with  the  sugar, 
and  boil  them  until  the  sugar  penetrates,  and  they  are 
clarified.  Take  them  out,  spread  them  on  dishes,  flatten, 
and  dry  them  in  the  sun.  Sprinkle  small  quantities  of 
syrup  occasionally  over  them  until  dried.  Then  pack 
them  in  boxes  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  pow- 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


249 


dered  white  sugar.  They  will  keep  well  from  year  to  year, 
and  retain  surprisingly  their  flavor,  which  is  nearly  as  good 
as  the  best  quality  of  figs.  The  pear  shaped  or  single 
tomato  answers  the  purpose  best. 

FRESH  FIG  PRESERVES. 

Five  pounds  of  southern  figs, 
Five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 
Five  pints  of  clear  water, 
Extract  of  lemon  to  the  taste. 

Dip  the  figs  in  hot  lye,  as  for  brandy  peaches,  and 
wipe  each  one  with  a  coarse,  dry  cloth,  so  as  to  have  the 
skin  perfectly  smooth.  Put  into  a  kettle  the  water,  sugar 
and  extract,  boil  and  skim  until  clear.  Put  in  the  figs, 
and  let  them  simmer  until  transparent.  Put  into  preserve 
jars  and  seal. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Ten  pounds  of  soft  yellow  peaches, 
Six  pounds  of  brown  sugar. 

Get  the  full  ripe,  open  stone,  yellow  peach.  Peel, 
Bake  out  the  stone  and  weigh.  Then  chop  very  fine,  and 
/nix  the  sugar  thoroughly  with  them.  Put  into  a  preserv- 
ing kettle,  let  them  simmer  steadily  but  not  too  rapidly, 
for  two  hours,  stirring  constantly,  to  keep  them  from 
burning.  Put  into  glass  jars,  and  when  cooled,  cover  with 
paper  saturated  with  brandy,  and  seal  with  flour  paste. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

As  many  oranges  as  are  to  be  preserved, 
Granulated  sugar  according  to  the  quantity  of  fruit. 

Eemove  the  rind  and  seeds  from  the  oranges.  Cut 
the  rind  of  one  half  in  very  fine  strips,  and  parboil  in 
water  until  enough  of  the  bitter  has  been  removed,  and 


250 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


sufficient  taste  remains  to  flavor  the  pulp  nicely.  Cut  up 
the  pulp  as  fine  as  possible  and  mix  with  the  rind.  Add 
to  every  pound  of  the  fruit,  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 
Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  stir  slowly  all  the  time 
it  is  boiling.  When  it  is  a  clear  golden  color  it  is  done. 
This  is  delicious  with  ice  cream,  plain  cream,  or  on 
pastry  puffs. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Ten  pounds  of  ripe  quinces, 
Ten  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Boil  the  quinces  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  peel 
them,  cut  the  size  you  wish,  and  weigh.  Keep  the  cores 
and  peelings  for  jelly.  Wet  the  sugar  with  some  of  the 
water  the  fruit  was  boiled  in,  say  a  half  a  teacupful  to  the 
pound.  Skim  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  put  in 
the  fruit  and  cook  until  the  pieces  are  tender  enough  to  be 
pierced  with  a  straw.  Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal  tightly. 
To  make  the  jelly,  take  the  water  the  fruit  was  boiled  in  ; 
put  in  the  peelings,  seeds  and  sugar  to  the  taste.  Boil 
slowly  until  it  will  jelly  by  trying  it  on  ice  ;  then  strain 
and  put  in  tumblers. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Six  pounds  of  ripe  yellow  quinces, 
Four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Peel  the  quinces,  core  and  quarter  them.  Put  the  peel- 
ings and  cores  into  a  preserving  kettle,  with  water  enough 
to  cover  them.  Boil  until  very  soft,  and  strain.  Put  the 
quinces  and  sugar  into  the  kettle,  and  pour  over  them  the 
strained  liquor  from  the  peelings  and  cores.  Boil  the 
whole  until  a  smooth  mass,  skimming  well  all  the 
time,  and  stirring  from  the  bottom  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing.   Put  into  glass  jars  and  seal  tightly. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


251 


PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE 

Six  pounds  of  grated  pineapple, 
Six  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Peel  and  grate  the  pineapple;  mix  with  the  sugar,  and 
let  it  stand  one  hour.  Put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil 
until  smooth,  then  put  into  glass  jars  and  seal  tightly. 
Skim  and  stir  as  peach  marmalade. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Six  pounds  of  chopped  pippins, 
Six  pounds  of  white  sugar, 
Five  lemons. 

Peel  and  chop  the  apples  and  put  them  into  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  with  two  teacupf uls  of  clear  water,  and  the  thin 
rind  of  the  lemons.  Boil  until  very  soft,  and  mash  smooth 
with  a  spoon.  Take  out  the  rind;  add  the  sugar  and 
lemon  juice,  boil  until  quite  thick,  stirring  from  the 
bottom  and  skimming  frequently.  Put  into  glass  jars  and 
cover  tightly. 

TO  DRY  CHERRIES. 

Take  as  many  cherries  as  you  wish  to  put  up,  stone 
them  and  save  the  juice.  Weigh  the  cherries,  and  allow 
one  pound  of  good  brown  sugar  to  three  of  fruit.  Boil  the 
sugar  with  the  juice  for  ten  minutes,  put  in  the  cherries 
and  stew  them  twenty  minutes.  Take  them  out  to  drain, 
and  lay  them  on  dishes  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Keep  the 
syrup,  and  pour  a  little  at  the  time  over  the  cherries  to 
dry.  They  must  be  frequently  turned  over,  and  when  all 
the  syrup  is  used,  put  the  cherries  in  layers  in  jars, 
sprinkling  powdered  sugar  between  each  layer.  These 
will  be  nice  for  pies,  puddings,  rolled  dumplings  and 


252 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


charlottes.  Damsons  and  plums  can  be  dried  in  the 
same  way. 

TO  DRY  APPLES. 

Take  the  quantity  of  apples  you  wish  to  dry;  peel  and 
slice  them  ;  string  them  on  a  very  coarse  thread,  and 
hang  the ui  in  a  warm  place  until  thoroughly  dried. 
Peaches  can  be  dried  in  the  same  way. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

Take  as  much  new  sweet  cider  as  you  wish  to  use,  fresh 
from  the  press.  Boil  it  down  to  one  half  the  original 
quantity.  Have  ready  some  fine  juicy  apples,  pared,  cored 
and  quartered.  Put  as  many  in  the  kettle  as  can  be  kept 
moist  by  the  cider.  Stew  until  the  consistency  of  soft 
marmalade  and  a  dark  brown  color,  stirring  frequently. 
It  is  quite  an  improvement  to  have  one  fourth  as  many 
quinces  as  apples.    If  well  boiled,  it  will  keep  a  year. 

TO  PREPARE  HONEY  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

Pour  all  the  honey  to  be  prepared  in  a  clean  colander; 
support  the  ears  of  the  colander  by  two  rods  resting  on 
the  brim  of  the  bowl.  Cut  the  comb  transversely  and  re- 
peatedly, then  leave  it  to  drain.  This  will  take  a  day  or 
two,  the  honey  running  through  a  clear  liquid,  leaving  the 
wax  behind  clear  and  dry.  Bottle  the  strained  honey, 
cork  tight,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  at  any  time.  To 
make  assurance  doubly  sure,  some  housekeepers  let  their 
honey  boil  before  bottling,  and  say  thus  prepared  it  may 
be  kept  for  an  indefinite  length  of  time.  A  warm,  dry 
store  room  is  best  to  keep  it  in. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


253 


EGG  NOGG. 

Yelks  of  two  dozen  eggs, 

Three  quarts  of  rich  cream, 

One  tumblerful  of  brandy  and  whisky,  mixed, 

One  tumblerful  of  sherry  wine, 

Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  brandy 
and  whisky  to  cook  the  eggs.  Then  add  the  sherry  wine 
and  nutmeg.  Beat  the  cream  very  light,  and  stir  gradu- 
ally in  the  eggs. 

TO  MAKE  LEMON  SYRUP. 

Ten  fresh  lemons, 

Three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 

Two  pints  of  clear  water, 

The  thinly  cut  rind  of  four  lemons. 

First  cut  the  rind  of  four  lemons,  as  thinly  as  it  can  be 
cut.  Squeeze  the  lemons  and  strain  the  juice.  Put  on 
the  water  with  rind  and  sugar,  and  skim  until  perfectly 
clear.  Then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  boil  about  eight 
minutes  longer,  bottle  and  seal.  This  will  keep  well  in  a 
cool  place  for  months.  This  quantity  can,  of  course,  be 
increased  as  may  be  desired. 

LEMON  SYRUP.— No.  2. 

Two  large  fresh  lemons, 
Two  pounds  of  lump  sugar, 
Two  ounces  of  citric  acid, 
One  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Slice  the  lemons  very  thin,  taking  out  the  seeds.  Pour 
the  boiling  water  on  the  lemons,  sugar  and  citric  acid. 
Stir  constantly,  and  when  cold,  strain  through  a  fine 
strainer,  and  bottle. 


254 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


PEACH  CORDIAL. 

Three  dozen  yellow  peaches, 
One  gallon  of  peach  brandy, 
One  pound  and  three  quarters  of  loaf  sugar. 

Peal  and  cut  the  peaches  in  half;  crack  the  stones,  and 
take  out  enough  of  the  kernels  to  make  a  half  a  tumbler- 
ful, and  put  all  into  a  stone  jar.  Pour  about  a  teacupful 
of  water  over  the  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  until  a  rich  syrup, 
skimming  carefully  while  it  is  boiling.  Mix  it  with  the 
brandy  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  Let  this  stand  for  six 
weeks,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Two  quarts  of  blackberry  juice, 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

Half  an  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg, 

Half  an  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon, 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground  allspice, 

One  pint  of  the  best  brandy. 

Prepare  the  blackberries  as  you  would  currants,  by  put- 
ting them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  keeping  it  in  boiling  water 
until  the  quantity  of  juice  required  is  extracted  from 
them.  Put  in  the  sugar,  tie  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag, 
and  boil  all  for  one  hour.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag; 
add  the  brandy,  and  cork  tightly. 

RASPBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Six  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries, 
Six  quarts  of  the  best  brandy. 

Pour  the  brandy  over  the  berries;  cover,  and  let  them 
stand  for  one  week;  then  strain  through  a  bag,  pressing 
out  all  the  liquid.    When  you  have  got  out  all  you  want, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


255 


reduce  the  strength  to  your  taste  with  water,  and  allow 
a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  the  gallon,  and  let  it  stand 
until  clear,  then  bottle.  Don't  boil,  or  you  will  destroy 
the  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Make  strawberry  cordial  in  the 
same  way. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Four  quarts  of  raspberries. 
Two  quarts  of  vinegar. 

First,  get  the  red  raspberries,  and  have  them  fully  ripe. 
Pour  over  the  four  quarts  of  berries  two  quarts  of  vinegar. 
Let  this  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Strain  and  pour  the 
juice  over  four  quarts  of  fresh  berries.  Let  this  stand  an- 
other twenty-four  hours;  strain  again,  then  allow  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil 
and  skim  for  one  hour.    Seal  tight. 

PUNCH  A  LA  REGENT. 

One  quart  bottle  of  dry  champagne, 

One  pint  of  good  brandy, 

One  quart  of  well-drawn  green  tea, 

One  tumblerful  of  maraschino  cordial, 

One  wineglassful  of  good  rum, 

Eight  thin  slices  of  pineapple, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 

The  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 

The  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange. 

Mix  the  champagne,  brandy  and  rum  together.  Peel 
and  cut  in  thin,  small  pieces  the  pineapple,  also  the  rinds 
of  the  lemon  and  orange;  and,  with  the  strained  juice,  stir 
into  the  champagne,  etc.  Lastly,  add  the  maraschino  cor- 
dial and  green  tea.  This  can  be  put  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles  and  kept  for  weeks  on  the  ice.    When  drinking  it 


256 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


use  ice  freely.  Water  can  also  be  added,  should  it  prove 
too  strong  for  some  tastes. 

ORANGE  CORDIAL. 

A  quart  of  the  best  alcohol, 
Orange  peelings, 
Granulated  sugar. 

Put  into  a  large  jar  the  quart  of  alcohol.  Throw  into  it 
the  peelings  of  as  many  oranges  as  it  will  conveniently 
hold.  When  the  alcohol  is  highly  colored  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Make  the  syrup  in  the  following  manner:  Take 
two  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  clear  water.  Let  it  boil 
until  it  thickens,  skimming  carefully  all  the  time.  When 
perfectly  clear  it  is  done.  When  cool,  not  cold,  stir  in 
well  the  alcohol.  This  is  delicious  as  a  cordial,  or  for 
sauces  for  puddings. 

PUNCH  FOR  BOTTLING. 

One  pint  of  the  best  green  tea, 
One  quart  of  boiling  water, 
Two  quarts  of  Jamaica  rum, 
Two  lemons, 

One  cupful  of  currant  jelly, 
One  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar, 
One  bottle  of  Curacoa  cordial, 
Three  pints  of  brandy. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  tea;  let  it  draw,  then 
strain.  Slice  the  lemons,  take  out  the  seeds  and  put  them 
(the  lemons)  in  the  hot  tea.  Stir  in  the  jelly  and  sugar, 
and  after  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  add  the  rum  and  brandy. 
Let  this  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  a  close  stone  jar. 
Strain,  add  the  curacoa,  and  bottle.  To  be  used  in 
punch  glasses,  and  water  if  necessary.  Ice  also  can  be 
used  in  it. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


257 


WHISKY  PUNCH  FOR  BOTTLING. 

One  gallon  of  whisky. 
One  quart  of  Jamaica  rum, 
Three  pints  of  clear  water, 
Ten  lemons. 

Squeeze  the  lemons,  strain  and  stir  the  juice  in  the 
water;  add  the  rum  and  whisky,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste. 
Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  twenty  minutes,  cover  until  cold, 
then  bottle.  Drink  either  cold  or  hot,  and  add  water  if 
too  strong.    Use  Bourbon  whisky. 

CURRANT  WINE. 

One  gallon  of  currant  juice, 
Two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 
One  quart  of  clear  water, 
One  pint  of  Jamaica  rum. 

Put  the  juice,  sugar  and  water,  into  a  preserving  kettle; 
let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  taking  care  to  skim  it  well 
while  boiling.  Take  it  off  and  pour  into  a  stone  jar  to 
stand  for  a  week.  If  necessary,  skim  again,  then  add  the 
rum. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Fifteen  gallons  of  blackberries, 
Five  gallons  of  water. 

Mash  the  berries,  but  do  not  bruise  the  seed;  allow  them 
to  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain  and  add  three  pounds 
of  the  best  white  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice.  When  the 
sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  put  all  into  a  cask  with  the 
water.  Put  a  piece  of  muslin  over  the  hole,  and  allow  it 
to  stand  until  fermentation  ceases,  after  which  cork  tightly 
or  bottle. 


258 


THE  KEKTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CANDY. 

Three  pounds  of  white  or  brown  sugar, 

One  and  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  cold  water, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

One-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  soda  mixed, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water;  when  it  boils  add  the  butter, 
and  when  thoroughly  melted,  stir  in  the  vinegar,  soda  and 
salt.  Cook  until  done,  which  can  be  ascertained  by  put- 
ting a  little  in  cold  water:  if  it  hardens  in  the  water,  take 
it  off.    While  pulling,  drop  a  little  vanilla  on  it. 

TAFFY. 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

One-half  a  pound  of  butter, 

One  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla. 

Put  the  above  ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  melt  to- 
gether and  stir  over  a  bright  fire  for  twelve  minutes;  add 
the  vanilla  and  cook  three  minutes  longer.  Grease  a 
marble  slab,  pour  on  it  the  mixture,  and  when  cool  enough, 
cut  in  small  squares,  and  before  it  is  perfectly  cold,  grease 
a  knife  and  loosen  it  from  the  marble  to  keep  it  from 
sticking. 

CARAMELS. 

One  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  chocolate, 
One  cupful  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
One  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  butter  well  together,  then  add  the 
sweet  milk  and  chocolate.  Stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved, 
then  boil  half  an  hour,  and  just  before  it  is  ready  to  be 
taken  off  the  fire,  flavor  to  the  taste  with  the  extract  of 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


259 


vanilla.  Pour  into  pans,  and  when  nearly  cool  take  a 
sharp  knife  and  cut  it  in  squares.  Measure  with  a  coffee 
cup. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chocolate, 
One  pound  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar, 
One  teacupful  of  cream, 
Extract  of  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Grate  the  chocolate;  scald  the  cream  and  pour  it  over 
the  chocolate,  stirring  until  smooth.  Then  add  the  vanilla, 
put  into  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Grease  a 
pan,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  when  cool  cut  in  squares 
with  a  greased  knife.    Use  Baker's  chocolate. 

PHILADELPHIA  WALNUT  CANDY. 

One  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
One  pint  of  walnut  meats, 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
One  tablespoonful  of  soda. 

Boil  the  molasses  until  a  nice  candy  is  made  from  it, 
and  when  done,  stir  in  the  soda,  butter  and  walnut  meats. 
Beat  hard  until  it  gets  light;  then  pour  into  buttered 
pans. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 


TO  GREEN  PICKLES. 

One  gallon  of  cider  vinegar, 

One  gallon  of  water, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  alum. 

Put  the  water,  vinegar  and  alum  into  a  brass  preserving 
kettle,  and  boil  for  about  ten  minutes.  Put  the  pickles 
in  a  jar  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  boiling  hot.  Do 
this  every  morning  for  nine  mornings.  The  pickles  should 
be  put  previously  into  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg,  and  allowed  to  remain  in  it  for  one  week.  When 
packing  the  jars,  it  is  always  better  to  have  the  cucumbers 
as  near  the  same  size  as  possible. 

TO  PREPARE  VINEGAR  FOR  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Two  gallons  of  the  best  cider  vinegar, 
Half  a  pint  of  black  mustard  seed, 
Half  a  pint  of  white  mustard  seed, 
One  teacupful  of  horseradish, 
Eight  medium  sized  onions, 
Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
Two  ounces  of  celery  seed, 
Three  ounces  of  black  pepper  grains, 
Three  ounces  of  whole  allspice, 
Two  ounces  of  stick  cinnamon. 

Pound  the  allspice,  cinnamon  and  pepper  grains 
together  until  well  broken  up.    Scrape  and  cut  the  horse- 

260 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


261 


radish  into  thin  pieces ;  peel  and  quarter  the  onions,  and 
with  the  spices,  put  into  the  vinegar  to  boil  until  it  tastes 
well  of  the  spices.  Put  the  pickles  into  stone  jars,  with 
the  spices  sprinkled  through,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  alum  in 
each  jar.  Pour  the  vinegar  on  while  hot,  and  cover 
closely.  This  will  be  sufficient  for  four  hundred  small 
cucumbers. 

TO  GREEN  PICKLES  IN  THE  FALL. 

Two  quarts  of  vinegar, 

Two  quarts  of  water, 

Two  tablespoon fuls  of  alum. 

First,  put  into  a  brass  kettle  a  layer  of  pickles,  then  a 
layer  of  fresh  grape  leaves.  After  dissolving  the  alum  in 
the  vinegar  and  water,  pour  it  over  the  pickles,  and  let 
them  steam  until  well  greened. 

TO  STUFF  CUCUMBERS. 

Forty  large  cucumbers, 
Three  ounces  of  ground  mace, 
Half  a  pound  of  ground  ginger, 
Half  a  pound  of  grated  horseradish, 
One  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 
Half  a  pound  of  chopped  onions, 
Two  ounces  of  turmeric, 
One  ounce  of  ground  cloves, 
One  ounce  of  ground  allspice, 
Half  a  pint  of  mixed  English  mustard, 
Half  a  pint  of  salad  oil, 
Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Green  the  cucumbers;  take  out  the  seed,  sprinkle  them 
inside  and  out  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Drain,  and  make  a  stuffing  of  the  above 
ingredients;  fill  each  cucumber  and  sew  up  well  with 
strong  thread.    Put  them  in  jars  and  cover  with  good 


262 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


cold  cider  vinegar.  Put  sticks  to  keep  the  cucumbers 
under  the  vinegar.  Keep  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Don't 
forget  to  put  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  in 
each  jar. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  STUFF  CUCUMBERS. 

A  half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 

A  half  pound  of  black  mustard  seed, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric, 

One  tablespoonf  ul  of  ground  cloves, 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil, 

Four  finely  chopped  onions, 

Four  finely  chopped  green  bell  peppers, 

One  pint  of  chopped  cucumbers  that  have  been  in  brine, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed  or  chopped  celery, 

Two  ounces  of  ground  ginger. 

Let  the  cucumbers  remain  for  three  days  in  weak  salt 
and  water;  then  put  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and  a  layer  of 
grape  leaves,  until  the  kettle  is  nearly  full.  Put  in  equal 
quantities  of  water  and  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  alum; 
let  them  steam  until  the  cucumbers  are  green,  then  throw 
them  in  cold  water  and  let  them  drain  on  a  waiter  so  as 
to  make  them  crisp;  open  and  scrape  out  the  seeds  and 
put  them  in  fresh  vinegar  and  water,  and  add  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar  to  the  gallon  of  vinegar.  Scald  for  three 
consecutive  days,  and  make  the  filling  of  the  above  ingre- 
dients. Fill  the  cucumbers,  sew  them  up,  and  put  them 
into  stone  jars.  Pour  boiling  hot  vinegar  over  them,  into 
which  you  have  put  one  pound  of  brown  sugar  to  the 
gallon  of  vinegar.  Put  in  each  jar  three  red  pepper  pods, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  scraped  horseradish,  and  two  or  three 
bruised  pieces  of  ginger  root.  This  filling  will  also  answer 
for  melon  mangoes,    Cover  tightly. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


263 


OILED  CUCUMBERS. 

Fifty  large  cucumbers, 

Twelve  large  onions, 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 

Six  small  red  pepper  pods, 

Five  pints  of  good  cider  vinegar, 

A  quart  bottle  of  the  best  salad  oil. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  slice  quite  thin;  also  the 
onions.  Strew  salt  over  them,  then  cover  and  let  them 
stand  until  morning.  Put  them  into  a  colander  to  drain 
thoroughly,  cover  with  the  vinegar  and  let  them  stand 
four  hours.  Put  into  the  kettle  the  oil,  celery  seed, 
red  peppers,  and  add  the  vinegar  drained  from  the  cucum- 
bers and  onions.  Let  all  simmer  for  ten  minutes  and 
pour  back  on  the  cucumbers  and  onions  very  hot.  Put 
into  close  jars  and  in  a  week  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 
This  is  excellent  with  fish,  steaks,  or  as  a  relish  for  supper. 

TO  MAKE  YELLOW  PICKLE. 

One  pound  of  sliced  ginger, 
One  pound  of  scraped  horseradish, 
One  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  seed, 
One  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
One  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg, 
One  ounce  of  white  pepper  grains, 
Three  gallons  of  strong  cider  vinegar, 
Half  a  pound  of  turmeric. 

Put  all  of  the  articles  intended  for  the  yellow  picKle 
into  a  stone  jar,  pour  on  them  boiling  salt  and  water,  and 
let  them  stand  forty-eight  hours.  Then  press  out  the 
water  and  lay  them  on  a  table  covered  with  a  soft  cloth  in 
the  full  sunshine.    When  dried,  put  them  into  stone  jars 


264 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


with  cold  vinegar  and  a  little  turmeric  in  it;  let  them 
stand  about  twelve  days,  draw  off  the  water,  and  put  them 
into  clean  jars  and  cover  with  vinegar  prepared  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  Put  the  above  spices,  horseradish,  tur- 
meric, etc.,  with  the  three  gallons  of  vinegar  into  a  brass 
kettle,  boil  until  the  vinegar  tastes  strongly  of  the  ingre- 
dients, let  it  get  cold,  then  pour  over  the  pickles. 


FRENCH  PICKLE. 

A  half  a  bushel  of  green  tomatoes, 

One  dozen  white  onions, 

Three  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 

A  gallon  and  a  half  of  cider  vinegar, 

A  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  French  mustard, 

One  ounce  of  ground  cloves, 

One  ounce  of  ground  allspice, 

One  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon, 

One  ounce  of  turmeric, 

One  ounce  of  ground  black  pepper, 

One  ounce  celery  seed. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  through  a  colander, 
put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  cover  with  equal  por- 
tions of  vinegar  and  water.  Boil  slowly  one  hour,  then 
drain  through  a  colander  for  a  half  an  hour.  Put  on  the 
fire  the  gallon  and  a  half  of  vinegar,  and  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix 
the  turmeric,  spices  and  mustard  to  a  paste  with  a  little 
cold  water,  adding  the  ground  black  pepper.  Stir  this  in 
the  vinegar  while  boiling,  and  simmer  for  five  minutes. 
Use  stone  jars,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  tomatoes  and  a 
cupful  of  the  mixture  until  the  jars  are  filled.  It  will  be 
ready  for  immediate  use. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


265 


ROUGH  AND  READY  PICKLE. 

Six  dozen  cucumbers, 

Half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 

One  dozen  green  bull  nose  peppers, 

One  dozen  white  onions, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  ground  black  pepper, 

Half  a  teacupful  of  ground  cloves  and  allspice,  mixed, 

Half  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 

Two  ounces  of  celery  seed. 

Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers,  onions,  tomatoes  and 
peppers.  Salt  them  separately  and  let  them  stand  over 
night.  The  next  morning  press  them  dry  and  chop  very 
fine.  Then  add  the  spices,  ground  pepper,  celery  seed, 
and  to  every  gallon  of  mixture  put  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar.  Cover  with  good  vinegar,  stir  well  and  boil  five 
minutes.    Put  in  jars  and  cover  tightly. 

SWEET  CANTELOPE  PICKLE. 

One  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar, 
Five  pounds  of  white  sugar, 
Half  an  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
Two  ounces  of  ground  cloves, 
Two  ounces  of  ground  cinnamon, 
Two  ounces  of  ground  allspice, 
The  peelings  of  three  oranges. 

Take  cantelopes  that  are  just  beginning  to  ripen;  re- 
move the  rinds,  and  throw  away  the  seeds.  Cut  the  rinds 
into  narrow  slices  and  put  them  into  stone  jars.  Fill  a 
kettle  with  two  thirds  vinegar  and  one  third  water,  and 
add  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  partridge  egg.  Boil  it 
five  minutes,  and,  while  hot,  pour  it  over  the  melon.  Let 
this  stand  thirteen  or  fourteen  hours,  take  out  the  melon, 
and  throw  away  the  vinegar.    While  the  melon  is  drain- 


266 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


ing,  put  the  spices  and  vinegar  on  to  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
and,  while  hot,  pour  over  the  melon.  Every  morning  boil 
this  vinegar  over  for  three  mornings,  and  the  last  time  put 
the  melon  in  the  kettle  and  boil  until  tender.  Put  into 
jars,  and  seal  while  hot.  These  proportions  can  be  in- 
creased according  to  the  quantity  of  melon  to  be  pickled. 

TO  PICKLE  MUSHROOMS. 

Nine  quarts  of  mushrooms, 
One  tablespoonful  of  ground  mace, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  ground  allspice, 
One  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
One  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper, 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  and  peel  the  mushrooms,  then  put  them  in  the 
jars  in  which  they  are  to  be  kept.  As  you  put  them  in, 
say  in  layers,  sprinkle  spices  over  each  layer;  cover  them 
with  boiling  vinegar,  tie  them  up  tightly,  and  in  two 
weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard, 

One  ounce  of  yellow  mustard  seed, 

An  ounce  and  a  half  of  whole  black  pepper, 

One  ounce  of  whole  cloves, 

One  ounce  of  whole  allspice, 

One  dozen  white  onions, 

Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  thin,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and 
let  them  stand  over  night.  The  next  morning  drain  them 
through  a  colander,  peel  and  slice  the  onions,  and  put 
into  the  kettle  in  the  following  order:  First,  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  onions,  then  seed  and  spices,  and  so  on  until 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


267 


all  are  in  the  kettle.  Mix  the  mustard  with  a  quart  of 
vinegar  and  the  sugar,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  Add 
more  vinegar  until  they  are  covered.  Place  the  kettle 
over  the  fire,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Put  in  stone  jars, 
and  cover  tightly  with  paper. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE.— No.  2. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 

Six  large  white  onions, 

One  teacupful  of  salt, 

Four  quarts  of  cider  vinegar, 

Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 

Half  a  pound  of  ground  mustard, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cloves, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon, 

One  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed, 

Six  green  bull  nose  peppers. 

Slice  the  onions  and  tomatoes;  sprinkle  the  salt  over 
them  and  let  them  stand  over  night;  drain  well  in  the 
morning.  Take  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  of  vinegar; 
boil  the  tomatoes  and  onions  in  it  for  five  minutes,  and 
drain  again  through  a  colander.  Then  take  the  four 
quarts  of  vinegar  and  put  in  it  the  tomatoes,  onions,  spices 
and  chopped  pepper.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  put  in 
stone  jars.    This  will  keep  well  for  a  year. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two  large  heads  of  cauliflower, 
One  quart  of  sliced  cucumbers, 
Half  a  pint  of  mixed  English  mustard, 
One  tablespoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
One  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper, 
Three  ounces  of  turmeric. 

Cut  the  cauliflower  and  cucumbers  into  small,  nicely- 


268 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE, 


shaped  pieces,  and  put  them  into  brine  for  twenty-four 
hours.  Drain  through  a  colander  for  an  hour  or  two; 
then  put  them  in  a  kettle.  Cover  with  vinegar,  in  which 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  celery  seed  has  been  previously  boiled 
for  twenty  minutes  and  strained.  Let  the  vegetables  sim- 
mer  with  the  spices  in  the  vinegar  until  perfectly  tender, 
stirring  well  all  the  time.  Put  into  wide-mouthed  jars  and 
tie  up  closely.  It  would  be  well  to  put  a  piece  of  alum, 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  into  each  jar  to  keep  the  pickle 
from  getting  soft. 

CUCUMBER  CHOW-CHOW. 

One  gallon  of  peeled  chopped  cucumbers. 
Fire  chopped  green  peppers, 
Four  chopped  onions, 
One  tablespoonful  of  whole  black  pepper, 
One  tablespoonful  of  whole  allspice, 
One  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves, 
Four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mustard, 
Half  a  pound  of  grated  horseradish, 
Half  a  pint  of  black  mustard  seed, 
Two  teaspcKDnfuls  of  celery  seed. 

After  peeling  and  chopping  the  onions,  cucumbers  and 
green  peppers,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  let  them  stand! 
over  night.  In  the  morning  press  out  the  salt,  and  put 
into  stone  jars.  Take  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  put  in  all  the 
above  ingredients,  except  the  horseradish,  which  should  be 
mixed  with  the  cucumbers  in  the  jars.  Boil  ten  minutes, 
and  when  cold  pour  over  the  cucumbers. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

One  dozen  firm  heads  of  cabbage, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  ground  ginger, 
Two  tablespoonful  s  of  allspice, 
One  dozen  small  green  pepper  pods, 
One  teacupful  of  white  mustard  seed, 
Two  ounces  of  turmeric. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


269 


Quarter  the  cabbage  heads,  cover  them  with  brine,  and 
let  them  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  In  the  morning 
press  dry  and  let  them  stand  for  a  day.  Put  them  in  a 
kettle  with  the  spices,  cover  with  cider  vinegar,  and  boil 
until  tender.  Put  them  into  wide  mouth  jars  and  tie  up 
closely.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  the  next  day.  Be 
sure  to  cover  them  well  with  vinegar  after  putting  them 
in  the  jars. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

One  peck  of  peeled  peaches, 

Three  pounds  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar, 

Three  pints  of  cider  vinegar, 

Half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg, 

One  ounce  of  cloves, 

One  ounce  of  cinnamon. 

After  peeling  the  peaches,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar. 
Break  up  the  spices  and  strew  them  through  the  peaches. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  together  for  ten  minutes,  and 
pour  over  the  peaches  while  very  hot.  Repeat  this  for 
three  consecutive  days,  then  boil  all  together  for  ten  min- 
utes. Plums  can  be  done  the  same  way,  only  don't  put 
in  quite  so  much  vinegar. 

PEACH  MANGOES. 

One  peck  of  peaches, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  black  mustard  seed, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric, 

One  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil, 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed  or  chopped  celery, 

Two  chopped  red  peppers, 

Two  chopped  onions. 

Get  the  peaches  two-thirds  ripe,  and  throw  them  into 


270 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


strong  salt  and  water  for  twelve  hours.  Wipe  them  dry, 
cut  them  in  half,  take  out  the  stones,  and  put  in  the  filling 
made  of  the  above  ingredients.  Sew  them  up  and  pour 
cold  vinegar  over  them.  Put  them  in  stone  jars  and 
cover  tightly. 


STUFFING  FOR  FORTY  MELONS. 

Half  a  pound  of  ground  race  ginger, 

One  pound  of  scraped  horseradish, 

One  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 

One  pound  of  chopped  onion, 

One  ounce  of  ground  mace, 

One  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg, 

Half  a  coffeecupful  of  black  pepper  grains, 

One  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed, 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard, 

Two  ounces  of  turmeric. 

Select  the  melons  a  size  larger  than  a  goose  egg;  pour 
boiling  salt  and  water  on  them,  and  let  them  stand  one 
night.  The  next  morning  make  a  slit  from  the  stem  to 
the  blossom  end  and  take  out  all  the  seeds  with  great 
care ;  return  them  to  the  brine  and  let  them  remain 
six  days,  then  put  them  in  the  best  cider  vinegar  and  let 
them  remain  for  ten  days.  Wipe  out  the  insides  and  stuff 
in  the  following  manner:  Mix  the  above  ingredients  to  a 
paste,  with  a  pint  of  the  best  salad  oil;  fill  each  melon 
well  with  it,  putting  in  each  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  tie 
tightly,  pack  them  in  a  stone  jar,  and  put  a  little  of  the 
stuffing  over  each  layer;  also  a  piece  of  alum  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut,  and  keep  well  covered,  with  the  best 
cider  vinegar. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Two  bushels  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
Half  a  peck  of  onions, 
One  teacupful  of  salt, 
One  teacupful  of  whole  allspice, 
Half  a  teacupful  of  ground  cloves, 
One  teacupful  of  black  pepper  grains, 
One  tablespoonful  of  ground  mace, 
Two  tumblerfuls  of  Madeira  wine, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  celery  seed, 
Cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste, 
Three  grated  nutmegs. 

"Wash  the  tomatoes  well,  and  cut  in  slices  a  half  an  inch 
thick.  Peel  the  onions,  and  slice  thin.  Put  them  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  with  the  salt,  on  the  fire,  and  let  them 
boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  taking  care  to  stir  frequently. 
Mash  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  ladle,  and  pour  into 
a  stone  jar  to  stand  over  night.  The  next  morning,  return 
to  the  preserving  kettle,  with  the  spices  and  wine,  and 
simmer  until  thick,  then  mash  again  through  a  sieve  with 
the  wooden  ladle,  and  bottle  and  seal  well. 


TOMATO  CATSUP.— No.  2. 

One  bushel  of  full  ripe  tomatoes, 
Two  quarts  of  good  cider  vinegar, 
One  ounce  of  whole  allspice, 
One  ounce  of  whole  cloves, 
Half  a  pound  of  dry  mustard, 
Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
Three  teaspoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
One  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper, 
One  quart  of  salt. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  a  half  an  inch  thick,  and  salt  in 
layers  until  all  are  salted  down.  Let  them  stand  over 
night,  and  in  the  morning  press  them  through  a  colander. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Put  them  to  boil  with  the  spices,  vinegar,  sugar,  mustard, 
salt  and  celery  seed,  for  three  hours  and  a  half.  Press 
through  a  colander,  then  through  a  sieve,  and  seal  very 
tight  in  bottles.  Six  onions,  peeled  and  cut  up,  might  be 
added. 

GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Three  gallons  of  green  tomatoes, 
One  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar, 
Three  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  allspice. 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cloves, 
Four  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
Four  green  bull  nose  peppers, 
Black  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes  and  peppers;  pack  them 
with  layers  of  salt,  and  put  them  in  colanders  to  drain 
over  night.  Press  dry  the  next  morning  and  put  them  in 
the  kettle  with  the  above  ingredients.  Boil  all  together 
until  thick,  and  add  a  quart  of  cold  vinegar.  Cover 
tightly  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

One  peck  of  full-grown  cucumbers, 

Two  large  onions, 

Half  a  pint  of  salt, 

Six  blades  of  mace, 

A  gill  of  Madeira  wine, 

A  gill  of  sweet  oil, 

A  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper 

A  teaspoonful  of  ground  black  pepper. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices.  Cover 
them  with  the  half  pint  of  salt,  to  draw  out  the  water, 


THE  KEKTUCKT  HOUSEWIFE. 


273 


and  let  them  stand  six  hours.  Cut  the  onions  also  in  thin 
slices,  and  put  them  in  stone  jars,  in  alternate  layers  with 
the  cucumbers,  pepper,  and  blades  of  mace,  broken  very 
fine.  Stir  the  oil  and  wine  in  the  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
the  cucumbers  cold. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

One  dozen  large  ripe  tomatoes, 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

Four  teacupfuls  of  vinegar, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon, 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  ginger, 

One  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 

One  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 

One  red  pepper  pod, 

Four  large  white  onions, 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes;  chop  the  onions 
very  fine;  put  in  the  other  ingredients,  and  boil  slowly  for 
two  hours.  Eub  through  a  sifter,  and  seal  in  bottles  or 
glass  jars.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  in  the  summer,  but  not 
too  cold  a  place  in  the  winter.  This  is  delicious  on  cold 
meats  or  fried  oysters. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Two  pecks  of  full  ripe  tomatoes, 
One  quart  of  salt. 

Cut  each  tomato  in  two  or  three  slices,  but  do  not  peel 
them;  put  them  in  a  kettle  in  layers,  salting  each  layer 
well.  Let  them  simmer  slowly  three  hours;  strain  them 
through  a  colander,  then  return  to  the  kettle  to  simmer 
slowly  for  an  hour  longer.  When  scalding  hot,  pour  into 
bottles  and  seal  hermetically.  This  is  delicious  for  steaks, 
chops,  sweetbreads  or  soups. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIEE. 


VENETIAN  PICKLE. 

Four  quarts  of  cider  vinegar, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  white  mustard  seed, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  black  pepper 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  allspice, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  crushed  stick  cinnamon, 

Four  cloves  of  garlic. 

Take  anything  you  wish  to  pickle,  cabbage,  onions  and 
green  peppers;  cut  them  up  and  cover  with  salt,  vinegar, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric;  let  them  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  stirring  them  carefully  three  or  four  times; 
then  take  them  off,  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth,  and  put  them 
into  a  bowl.  Put  the  vinegar,  etc.,  into  a  kettle,  boil  all 
well  together,  and  when  cool  pour  over  the  pickles.  In 
two  days  they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
One  quart  of  vinegar. 

Pound  the  celery  seed  in  a  mortar,  and  put  it  into  a 
quart  bottle  with  the  vinegar  poured  over  it;  shake  it  well 
every  day  for  two  weeks,  then  strain,  and  keep  it  for  use, 
as  it  will  impart  a  pleasant  flavor  of  celery  to  everything 
in  which  it  is  used.  A  delicious  flavor  of  thyme  or  sum- 
mer savory  can  be  obtained  by  gathering  it  when  it  is  in 
full  perfection;  pick  enough  from  the  stalk  to  make  a  tea- 
cupful,  put  it  in  a  bottle  and  pour  on  it  a  quart  of  strong 
vinegar.  The  next  day  take  out  the  thyme  or  savory, 
put  in  another  teacupful;  do  this  three  times,  then  strain, 
bottle  and  seal  tightly.  This  will  be  much  more  pleas- 
ant than  the  dried  herb,  and  can  be  used  when  the  fresh 
is  out  of  season.    Mint  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


275 


Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow  the  herbs  to  remain 
in  the  liquor  longer  than  twenty  hours,  or  the  taste  will 
be  bitter  and  disagreeable. 

FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Coleman's  English  mustard, 

Half  a  pint  of  water, 

Half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 

A  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

A  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  sugar, 

A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  mustard  in  a  saucepan,  and  pour  over  it  the 
vinegar  and  water;  add  the  salt  and  a  pinch  of  calamus 
root  the  size  of  a  pea.  Put  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  is 
boiling  add  the  flour.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Just  before  taking  it  off  stir  in  the  sugar. 
When  cool,  put  it  in  small  wide-mouth  bottles  and  cork 
tightly. 

TO  PICKLE  OYSTERS. 

One  quart  of  vinegar, 
One  gallon  of  oysters, 
One  pint  of  sherry  wine, 
Two  quarts  of  oyster  liquor, 
Half  an  ounce  of  ground  cloves, 
Half  an  ounce  of  ground  allspice, 
Half  an  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
Six  small  red  pepper  pods, 
One  dessertspoonful  of  salt, 
Two  lemons. 

Put  the  oysters  into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  their  liquor 
and  let  them  simmer  slowly  until  the  edges  curl.  When 
done  take  them  out  of  their  liquor,  drop  them  in  cold 
water  and  let  them  remain  in  it  ten  minutes,  then  drain. 
Take  two  quarts  of  the  liquor,  the  vinegar,  spices,  salt 


276 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


and  pepper  pods;  let  this  boil  for  about  three  minutes, 
then  pour  into  a  bowl  to  get  cold.  Out  the  lemons  into 
thin  slices,  taking  care  to  throw  away  all  of  the  seeds. 
Put  them  with  the  wine  into  the  mixture,  then  put  the 
oysters  into  wide-mouth  bottles  and  pour  it  over.  Cork 
tightly. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.— No.  2. 

Three  hundred  large  oysters, 

One  pint  of  Madeira  wine, 

One  quart  of  vinegar, 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  black  pepper, 

Eight  bladas  of  mace. 

Strain  the  liquor  off  the  oysters,  boil  and  pour  it  over 
them  while  hot.  Let  them  stand  for  about  ten  minutes, 
pour  off  the  liquor,  and  cover  the  oysters.  Put  the  wine, 
vinegar,  pepper,  mace  and  salt,  in  the  liquor,  and  boil 
again  for  about  ten  minutes.  Put  the  oysters  in  close 
jars,  and  when  the  liquor  is  cold  pour  it  over  them. 
Cover  the  jars  tightly,  and  the  oysters  will  keep  a 
long  time. 

OYSTER  CATSUP. 

Four  pints  of  fresh  oysters, 

One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace, 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 

Four  ounces  of  salt, 

Three  pints  of  white  wine, 

Half  a  tumblerful  of  brandy. 

Wash  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  then  put  them 
into  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  mace,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  pound  all  well  together.  Now  put  the  mixt- 
ure into  a  saucepan  with  the  wine,  and  let  it  boil  ten 
minutes;  rub  through  a  sieve,  boil  five  minutes  longer, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


277 


skim  well,  and  when  cold,  add  the  brandy;  bottle,  cork 
and  seal  tightly.  This  gives  a  fine  flavor  to  meat  sauces, 
and  will  keep  for  some  time. 

TO  PREPARE  HORSERADISH. 

"Wash  the  horseradish  clean  and  let  it  lie  in  cold  water 
for  about  an  hour,  then  scrape  into  very  fine  shreds  with 
a  sharp  knife.  Put  into  a  wide-mouth  bottle,  cover  with 
vinegar,  and  cork  tightly. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Wash  and  prepare  as  above,  as  much  as  you  wish  to 
keep  for  awhile.  Grate  very  fine,  and  put  in  as  much 
vinegar  as  it  will  absorb.  Put  into  a  wide-mouth  bottle 
and  cork  tightly.  Every  three  or  four  days  add  a  little 
vinegar  to  it,  so  as  to  make  it  keep  fresh.  This  is  very 
nice  with  roast  beef,  beefsteaks,  and  any  kind  of  cold 
meat. 


MENUS 

FOR 

BREAKFASTS,  LUNCHES  &  DINNERS. 


SPRING  BREAKFAST  No.  I. 

Fruit 

Broiled  Shad — Tartare  Sauce, 
Saratoga  Potatoes. 
Broiled  Lamb  Chops  and  Peas, 
Hot  Rolls. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Sweetbreads  and  Champignons. 
Broiled  Snipe  on  Toast. 

SPRING  BREAKFAST.— No.  2. 

Fruit. 

Broiled  Salmon — Melted  Butter  Sauce, 
Stewed  Potatoes, 
Hot  Pounded  Biscuits. 
Broiled  Chickens — Champignons, 
Hot  Rolls. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops  and  Peas, 
Hot  Muffins. 
Dressed  Tomatoes. 


278 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


SUMMER  BREAKFAST.— No.  I. 

Fruit. 

Broiled  Trout — Tartare  Sauce, 
Saratoga  Potatoes, 

Hot  Rolls. 
Spring  Chickens, 
Broiled  Tomatoes. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Breaded  Chops  with  Peas, 
Hot  Pounded  Biscuits. 


SUMMER  BREAKFAST.— No.  2. 

Fruit. 
Broiled  Salmon, 
Potatoes  cut  in  dice  and  Fried. 
Small  Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef  with  Truffles, 
Hot  Rolls. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Sweetbreads  Stewed  with  Cream, 
Hot  Pounded  Biscuits. 


SUMMER  BREAKFAST.— No.  3. 

Cantelopes. 
Broiled  Chicken, 
Hot  Rolls, 
Corn  Fritters. 

Lamb  Chops — Hot  Biscuits, 
Boiled  Tomatoes. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Ham  Omelette. 
Peaches  and  Cream. 


280 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


FALL  BREAKFAST.— No.  I. 

FAMILY  BREAKFAST. 

Broiled  White  Fish, 
Plain  Omelette. 
Broiled  Doves,  or  Pheasants  on  Toast, 
Hot  Rolls. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Waffles, 
Golden  Syrup. 


FALL  BREAKFAST— No.  2. 

Fruit. 

Small  Fillets  of  Beef — Champignons, 

Broiled  Tomatoes.  — Rolls. 
Fried  Oysters. — Pounded  Biscuits. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Reed  Birds  on  Toast, 
Fried  Potatoes. 


WINTER  BREAKFAST.— No.  1. 

Fruit. 

Lamb  Chops  and  Peas, 
Hot  Rolls. 

Small  Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef — Champignons, 
Hot  Pounded  Biscuits. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Buckwheat  Cakes, 
Golden  Syrup. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


281 


WINTER  BREAKFAST.— No.  2. 

Fruit. 

Beefsteak  with  Champignons, 
Hot  Pounded  Biscuits, 
Omelette  with  Herbs. 
Quail  on  Toast. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Terrapins, 
Hot  Rolls. 


WINTER  BREAKFAST.— No.  3. 

Fruit. 

Broiled  Kennebec  Salmon  Steaks, 
*       Scalloped  Potatoes, 

Hot  Rolls. 
Fried  Oysters — Rolled  Bread. 

Coffee  and  English  Breakfast  Tea. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads, 
Tomato  Sauce, 
Biscuits. 
Omelet  with  Parmesan  Cheese. 


SPRING  LUNCH.— No.  1. 

Clear  Soup. 
Fish,  Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise, 
Scalloped  Potatoes. 
Baked  Sweetbreads, 
Green  Peas. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Quenelles  with  Truffles. 
Tomato  Salad — Mayonnaise  Dressing. 
Ice  Cream  and  Strawberries — Cakes. 
Coffee. 


282 


THE   KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


SPRING  LUNCH.— No.  2. 

Green  Pea  Soup  with  Small  Pieces  of  Toast. 
Baked  Fish — Tartare  Sauce, 
Stewed  Potatoes. 
Breaded  Lamb  Chops, 
Champignon  Sauce. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Snipe  on  Toast. 
Cr§me  de  Volaille. 
Lettuce  Salad. 
Macaroon  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

SUMMER  LUNCH.— No.  1. 

Clear  Soup — Parmesan  Cheese. 
Broiled  Salmon  Steaks — Tartare  Sauce. 
Chicken  a  la  Curry. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Sweetbreads  in  Shells. 
Tomato  Salad. 
Raspberry  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Chocolate. 

SUMMER  LUNCH.— No.  2. 

FOR  SMALL  LUNCH. 

White  Soup. 
Broiled  Chickens — Truffle  Sauce. 

Roman  Punch. 

Croquettes — Tomato  Sauce. 
Lettuce  Salad. 
Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Coffee. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


283 


FALL  LUNCH.— No.  i. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 

White  Soup. 
Boiled  Fish — Egg  Sauce, 
Potatoes. 
Fillet  of  Beef— Champignons. 

Roman  Punch. 

Reed  Birds. 
Chicken  Salad. 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

FALL  LUNCH.— No.  2. 

Lobster  Soup. 
Broiled  White  Fish — Tartare  Sauce. 
Broiled  Chickens, 
Fresh  Fall  Mushrooms. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Calf's  Head  a  la  Terrapin. 
Reed  Birds. 
Tomato  Salad. 
Neapolitan  Brick — Cakes. 
Candied  Fruits 
Chocolate. 

WINTER  LUNCH.— No.  1. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 
White  Soup. 
Quails  with  Truffles, 
Stewed  Potatoes. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Croquettes  and  Green  Peas. 
Salad. 

Neapolitan  Brick — Cakes. 
Coffee. 


\ 


284 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


WINTER  LUNCH.— No.  2. 

Clear  Soup. 
Fish — Tartare  Sauce, 
Potatoes  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Broiled  Venison  Steaks — Jelly, 
Baked  Salsify. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Baked  Grouse — Brown  Sauce. 
Salad. 
Orange  Ice — Cakes. 
Candied  Fruits. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  LUNCH.— No.  3. 

White  Soup,  Sliced  Almonds  in  it. 

Fish,  in  Shells. 
Quails  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts. 
Oyster  Patti. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Creme  de  Volaille. 

Salad. 
Ice  Cream — Cakes. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

SPRING  DINNER  — No.  1. 

Green  Pea  Soup,  small  pieces  of  Fried  Toast  in  it. 
Pompano  Fish,  Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise, 
Mashed  Potato. 
Croquettes—  Champignon  Sauce, 
Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Orange  Punch,  dashed  with  Maraschino  Cordial. 

Snipe  on  Toast. 
Dressed  Lettuce. 
Cocoanut  Pudding. 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Jelly. 
Coffee. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


SPRING  DINNER.— No.  2. 

White  Soup. 
Boiled  Lake  Fish — Tartare  Sauce, 
Potatoes  Stewed  in  Cream. 
Chickens  Dressed  with  Truffles, 
Asparagus. 

Roman  punch. 

Fillet  of  Beef — Champignons, 
Spinach. 
Salad. 
Pudding. 
Pine  Apple  Sherbet — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


SPRING  DINNER.— No.  3. 

Okra  Soup. 
Baked  Shad — Tartare  Sauce, 
Mashed  Potatoes. 
Roast  Lamb — Mint  Sauce, 
Green  Peas. 

Roman  Punch. 

Fillet  of  Veal — Brown  Sauce, 
Macaroni. 
Salad. 
Pudding— Cold  Sauce. 
Lemon  Sherbet. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


SPRING  DINNER.— No.  4. 

Julienne  Soup. 
Baked  Fish — Tartare  Sauce, 
Mashed  Potatoes. 
Broiled  Chicken — Champignon  Sauce, 
Spinach. 

Roman  Punch. 

Snipe  on  Toast. 
Salad. 
Cabinet  Pudding. 
Neapolitan  Brick — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

SUMMER  DINNER.— No.  1. 

Gumbo  Soup. 
Baked  Bass — Tartare  Sauce, 
Potatoes  Cut  in  Balls — Cream  Sauce. 

Boiled  Mutton — Caper  Sauce, 
Cauliflower  with  Parmesan  Cheese. 

Roman  Punch. 

Sweetbreads  in  Shells. 

Salad. 

Lemon  Pudding. 
Peach  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 

SUMMER  DINNER.— No.  2. 

Corn  Soup. 
Boiled  Salmon — Lobster  Sauce, 

Cucumbers. 
Fillet  of  Beef — Champignons, 
Macaroni. 

Roman  Punch. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Chicken  Croquettes  with  Truffles. 
Broiled  Woodcock — Saratoga  Potatoes. 
Shrimp  Salad. 
Pudding. 
Lemon  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

SUMMER  DINNER.— No.  3. 

Lobster  Soup. 
Boiled  Sheep's  Head — Egg  Sauce. 
Roast  Lamb — Mint  Sauce, 
Green  Peas. 

Roman  Punch. 

Fried  Chicken — Cream  Sauce, 
Egg — Plant  Pudding. 
Croquettes — Tomato  Sauce. 

Salad. 

Pudding — Cold  Sauce. 
Raspberry  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

SUMMER  DINNER.— No.  4. 

Okra  Soup. 
Boiled  Fish — Shrimp  Sauce. 
Fried  Chicken — Cream  Sauce, 
Cauliflower. 

Roman  Punch. 

Fillet  of  Beef  with  Truffles, 
Corn  Pudding. 
Creme  de  Volaille. 
Tomato  Salad. 
Pudding — Cold  Sauce. 
Lemon  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


SUMMER  DINNER.— No.  5. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 
Broiled  Salmon  Steaks — Tartare  Sauce, 
Potatoes. 
Sweet  Breads — Green  Peas. 

Roman  Punch. 

Prairie  Chickens. 
Salad. 
Pudding — Cold  Sauce. 
Nesselrode  Pudding — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


FALL  DINNER.— No.  1. 

Clear  Soup  with  Parmesan  Cheese. 
Boiled  Salmon — Hot  and  Cold  Sauce, 
Mashed  Potatoes. 

Bouilli  Beef, 
Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Roman  Punch. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 
Salad. 
Cabinet  Pudding. 
Neapolitan  Brick — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


FALL  DINNER.— No.  2. 

White  Soup. 
Boiled  Rock  Bass — Shrimp  Sauce. 
Roast  Chicken — Fresh  Fall  Mushrooms. 

Roman  Punch. 


THE  KEKTUCJKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Breaded  Lamb  Chops, 
Stewed  Tomatoes. 
Baked  Sweet  Breads — Champignons. 
Orange  Pudding. 
Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Jelly. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

FALL  DINNER.— No.  3. 

White  Soup. 
Baked  Bass — Tartare  Sauce, 

Mashed  Potatoes. 
Boiled  Mutton — Caper  Sauce. 

Pine  Apple  Punch. 

Sweet  Breads  in  Shells. 
Broiled  Grouse. 
Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Salad. 
Pudding — Hot  Sauce. 
Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

FALL  DINNER.— No.  4. 

Oyster  Gumbo. 
Boiled  Fish — Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise, 
Baked  Mashed  Potatoes. 
Reed  Birds, 
Macaroni. 

Roman  Punch. 

Croquettes — Champignon  Sauce. 
Celery  Salad. 
Pudding. 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


WINTER  DINNER.— No.  I. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 
Clear  Soup. 

Broiled  Kennebec  Salmon,  garnished  with  Fried  Oysti 

Tartare  Sauce. 
Saddle  of  Mutton — Wine  and  Jelly  Sauce. 

Pine  Apple  Punch  of  St.  Croix  Rum. 

Roasted  Pheasants, 
Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Mayonnaise. 
Plum  Pudding. 
Individual  Ices — Small  Cakes. 
Candied  Fruits. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  DINNER.— No.  2. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 
Calf's  Head  Soup. 
Fish.    Red  Snapper — Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise, 
Macaroni. 

Roman  Punch. 

Creme  de  Yolaille  with  Champignons. 
Salad. 
Cabinet  Pudding. 
Neapolitan  Brick — Cakes. 
Jelly. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  DINNER.— No.  3. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 
White  Soup. 
Boiled  Fish — Tartare  Sauce, 
Mashed  Potatoes.  . 
Roast  Turkey  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts, 
Stewed  Celery. 

Roman  Punch. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Terrapins. 
Roast  Quails  with  Champignons. 
Salad. 
Plum  Pudding. 
Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Charlotte  Russe. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  DINNER.— No.  4. 

Oysters  on  the  Half -shell. 
Clear  Soup. 
Boiled  Fish — Shrimp  Sauce, 
Baked  Mashed  Potatoes. 
Fillet  of  Beef  with  Champignons. 

Roman  Punch. 

Boudins  a  la  Richelieu  Truffle  Sauce. 
Pate  de  Fois  Gras  in  Aspec  Jelly. 
Salad. 
Pudding — Hot  Sauce. 
Macaroon  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Jelly. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  DINNER.— No.  5. 

Oyster  Soup. 
Boiled  Fish— Egg  Sauce, 
Mashed  Potatoes. 
Quails  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts, 
Macaroni. 

Roman  Punch. 

Quenelles  with  Sauce. 
Salad. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream — Cakes. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 


fHE  KEKfUCKY  EOUSEWlFE. 


WINTER  DINNER.— No.  6, 

Oysters  on  the  Half -shell. 
Clear  Soup — Cream  Celery  Soup. 
Kennebec  Salmon — Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise — Tartare  Sauce, 
Potatoes  cut  in  little  balls — Cream  Sauce. 
Fillet  of  Beef  with  Truffles. 

Roman  Punch. 

Creme  de  Volaille— Champignons. 
Terrapins. 
Quails  Stuffed  with  Chestnu^. 
Macaroni. 
Salad. 
Plum  Pudding. 
Charlotte  Russe. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  SUPPER.— No.  I. 

A  supper  of  twelve  persons  to  be  served  at  one  table,  and  in  courses. 

Oysters  in  the  Shell. 
Venison — Wine  Sauce. 
Sweet  Breads  and  Peas. 
Pheasant  Breasts — Truffle  Sauce,. 

Salad. 

Ice  Cream. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

WINTER  SUPPER.— No.  2. 

Is  to  be  served  as  No  1,  at  one  table. 

Oysters  in  the  Shell. 
Sweet  bread  Pattis. 
Tarrapins. 

Salad. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


293 


Ice  cream. 
Fruit. 
Coffee. 

No.  i. 

Winter  suppers  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  persons,  to  be  served  in 
courses,  at  small  tables. 

No.  i. 

Oyster  Pattis. 
Sweet  Breads  and  Champignons. 
Chicken  Croquettes  and  Peas. 

Salad. 

Ice  Cream. 
Coffee. 

No.  2. 

Is  to  be  served  as  No.  1,  at  small  tables. 
Terrapins. 
Creme  de  Volaille. 
Oyster  Croquettes. 

Salad. 

Ice  Cream. 
Coffee. 


FOOD  IN  SEASON- 


DECEMBER. 


FISH. 


Salmon,  codfish,  shrimps,  lobsters,  black  bass,  rockfish, 
hard-shell  crabs,  and  oysters. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton,  pork,  and  veal. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Turkeys,  geese,  ducks,  chickens,  wild  turkey,  canvas- 
back  ducks,  teal,  mallard,  quails,  pheasants,  venison, 
grouse,  and  terrapin. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  squashes,  turnips,  carrots, 
parsnips,  celery,  spinach,  cabbage,  onions,  and  salsify. 

FEUITS. 

Apples,  pears,  grapes,  cranberries,  oranges,  and  figs. 
Food  in  season  for  the  months  not  given,  are  the  same 
as  those  given. 

394 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


295 


FEBRUARY. 

FISH. 

Eock  fish,  perch,  smelts,  red  snapper,  lobsters,  and 
oysters. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton,  fresh  pork,  sausages  and  ham. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Turkeys,  ducks,  geese,  chickens,  canvas-back  ducks, 
terrapin,  teal. 

VEGETABLES. 

White  and  sweet  potatoes,  turnipSj  parsnips,  salsify, 
celery,  winter  spinach,  cabbages 

FRUITS. 

Apples,  grapes,  bananas,  lemons,  oranges,  and  figs. 

MARCH. 

FISH. 

Shad,  rock  fish,  black  bass,  salmon,  smelts,  white  fish, 
codfish,  lobsters,  red  snapper,  hard  shell  crabs,  and  oysters. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton  and  ham 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Capons,  ducks,  chickens,  canvas-back  ducks,  teal  and 
terrapin. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  southern  tomatoes,  spinach, 
salsify,  lettuce  and  radishes. 

FRUITS. 

Oranges,  apples,  figs,  and  southern  strawberries. 


296 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


APRIL. 

FISH. 

Shad,  black  bass,  fresh  mackerel,  white  fish  lobsters, 
red  snapper,  hard  shell  crabs  and  oysters. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton  and  spring  lamb. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Spring  chickens,  capons,  ducks,  chickens  and  snipe. 

VEGETABLES. 

New  potatoes,  asparagus,  southern  peas,  lettuce  south- 
ern cucumbers,  spinach,  southern  tomatoes,  spring  onions, 
leeks  and  radishes. 

FRUITS. 

Oranges,  southern  strawberries,  apples,  cranberries,  and 
figs. 


MAY. 

FISH. 

"White  fish,  shad,  white  perch,  fresh  mackerel,  salmon, 
pike,  lobsters,  red  snapper,  brook  trout,  and  hard  shell 
crabs. 

MEATS. 


Beef;  spring  lamb,  and  veal, 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


297 


POULTEY  AND  GAME. 

Spring  chickens,  capons,  and  snipe. 

VEGETABLES. 

New  potatoes,  asparagus,  peas,  lettuce,  cucumbers, 
southern  tomatoes,  cauliflowers,  spinach,  onions,  leeks, 
radishes,  and  mint. 

FRUITS. 

Apples,  oranges,  figs,  cherries,  and  southern  straw- 
berries. 


JUNE. 

FISH. 

Spanish  mackerel,  trout,  rock  fish,  salmon,  sea  bass, 
red  snapper,  white  fish,  blue  fish,  lobsters,  hard  and  soft 
shell  crabs. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  spring  lamb,  and  veal. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Spring  chickens  and  snipe. 

VEGETABLES. 

New  potatoes,  peas,  lettuce,  cucumbers,  southern  toma- 
toes, southern  squashes,  cauliflowers,  cabbage,  spinach, 
string  beans,  beets,  water  cresses,  carrots,  radishes,  leeks, 
and  mint. 

FRUITS. 


Oranges,  strawberries,  raspberries,  cherries  and  %s? 


298 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


JULY. 

FISH. 

Sheepshead,  blue  fish,  Spanish,  mackerel,  trout,  hali- 
but, salmon,  lobsters,  hard  and  soft  shell  crabs. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  spring  lamb,  and  veal. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Spring  chickens  and  woodcock. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  peas,  mushrooms,  green  corn,  tomatoes,  cu- 
cumbers, egg  plant,  squashes,  cauliflowers,  lima  beans, 
string  beans,  beets,  leeks,  water  cresses  and  mint. 

FOR  PICKLING. 

Cucumbers,  red  cabbages,  cauliflowers,  and  nasturtiums. 

FRUITS. 

Peaches,  raspberries,  blackberries,  cherries,  gooseber- 
ries, mulberries,  apricots,  plums,  nectarines,  greengages, 
damsons,  and  melons. 


AUGUST. 

FISH. 

Sheepshead,  Spanish  mackerel,  fresh  mackerel,  trout, 
perch,  sea  bass,  hard  and  soft  shell  crabs. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


299 


MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton,  lamb,  and  veal. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Spring  chicken,  woodcock,  plover,  and  prairie  chickens. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  mushrooms,  green-corn,  tomatoes,  squashes, 
egg  plant,  beets,  carrots,  celery,  spinach,  cabbage,  cauli- 
flowers, Lima  beans,  onions,  garlic,  mint,  and  water- 
cresses. 

FOR  PICKLING. 

Green  tomatoes,  cabbage,  bull-nose  peppers,  onions 
and  cauliflowers. 

FRUIT. 

Pears,  grapes,  peaches,  blackberries,  apricots,  plu 
nectarines,  greengages,  damsons,  quinces,  and  melons. 


SEPTEMBER. 

FISH. 

Spanish  mackerel,  bluefish,  sheepshead,  salmon,  hali- 
but, sea  bass,  clams,  lobsters,  hard  and  soft  shell  crabs, 
and  oysters. 

MEATS. 

Beef,  mutton,  lamb,  and  veal. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Chickens,  prairie  chickens,  reed  birds,  woodcock,  teal; 
terrapin  commences  its  season  the  latter  part  of  Sep- 
tember. 


300 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  green-corn,  mushrooms,  tomatoes,  squashes, 
carrots,  celery,  Lima  beans,  cabbage,  onions,  garlic,  mint, 
water-cresses  and  leeks. 

EOE  PICKLING. 

White  cabbage,  cucumbers,  white  onions,  green  toma- 
toes, and  string  beans. 

FKUITS. 

Apples,  pears,  grapes,  peaches,  plums,  nectarines,  dam- 
sons, oranges,  melons  and  quinces. 


HOUSEHOLD  NOTES 


A  COMPOUND  TO  WASH  WITH. 

Cut  six  pounds  of  soap  into  thin  pieces;  pour  on  a  gal- 
lon of  water,  and  boil  until  the  soap  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Then  add  one  ounce  of  powdered  borax,  a  half  a 
pint  of  ammonia,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer,  stirring 
well  all  the  time. 

HOW  TO  USE  THE  COMPOUND. 

To  one  ordinary  size  tubful  of  water,  add  a  small  tea- 
cupful  of  the  compound.  Soak  the  clothes  in  it  over 
night,  and  in  the  morning  wash  them  out.  Put  them  in 
the  boiler,  and  while  boiling,  add  another  teacupful  of 
the  compound.  Rinse  well,  and  dry.  This  will  take  out 
all  the  grease  and  dirt;  also  saves  labor,  as  well  as  the 
hard  rubbing  of  the  clothes.  Be  sure  not  to  wash  the 
clothes  in  the  compound;  only  soak  and  boil  them  in  it. 

SOAP. 

Boil  one  gallon  and  a  half  of  rain  water;  shave  into  it, 
as  fine  as  possible,  five  pounds  of  opadildoc  soap;  stir  until 
thoroughly  dissolved,  then  add  a  half  a  pound  of  sal  soda, 
one  tablespoonful  of  alcohol,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
ammonia.  Boil  five  minutes,  stirring  hard  all  the  time. 
Put  into  a  stone  jar. 

301 


302 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  MAKE  SOFT  SOAP. 

Put  to  soak  over  night  a  box  of  chemical  lye,  into  six 
quarts  of  water.  The  next  morning  put  it  on  to  boil, 
and  by  degrees,  add  five  pounds  of  grease.  Boil  two 
hours  and  a  half,  then  stir  in  two  quarts  at  the  time,  a 
gallon  and  a  half  of  hot  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
ammonia,  and  a  wine-glassful  of  salt.  Boil  twenty  min- 
utes longer,  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  myrrhbane, 
which  is  intended  to  give  to  the  soap  a  pleasant  perfume. 
Pour  into  large  wide  mouth  stone  jars,  and  if  too  stiff,  add 
cold  water  until  the  consistency  of  thick  honey. 

BORAX  SOAP  FOR  BLEACHING  CLOTHES. 

Put  one  ounce  of  pulverized  borax  into  eight  quarts  of 
water,  and  let  it  boil.  While  boiling,  cut  up  three  pounds 
of  soap  into  very  small  pieces,  and  boil  all  together  ten 
minutes.    Put  into  a  stone  jar  and  keep  for  use. 

TO  MAKE  A  WHITE  WASH. 

Slack  one  barrel  and  a  half  of  lime  in  hot  water,  and 
keep  it  covered  tightly  until  you  are  ready  to  mix  it. 
Then  fill  the  barrel  about  half  full  of  hot  water;  stir  in 
one  quart  of  dissolved  glue,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  melted 
tallow,  and  a  half  a  peck  of  salt;  mix  well.  To  color  it, 
take  lamp  black  and  alcohol,  and  stir  in  until  you  get  it 
the  right  color.  It  will  be  necessary  to  try  it  frequently, 
giving  it  time  to  dry,  so  as  not  to  have  it  too  dark.  After 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed,  it  should  be  strained  and  racked 
off  into  a  new  barrel,  then  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This 
will  be  found  equal  to  paint. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


303 


TO  CLEAN  BRASS. 

Brass,  when  corroded  and  blackened,  may  be  cleaned 
with  rottenstone,  moistened  with  oxalic  acid  and  a  little 
water.    Polish  with  whiting  or  silicon  powder. 

TO  CLEAN  OLD  MATTING. 

To  clean  and  freshen  old  matting,  rub  it  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  salt  and  water,  being  careful  not  to  allow  any 
drojps  of  water  to  dry  in  the  matting,  or  they  will  leave 
spots  difficult  to  remove. 

TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  TIN. 

A  few  drops  of  ammonia  will  be  effectual  in  removing 
grease  from  the  dishpan,  and  it  is  a  good  plan,  once  in  a 
while,  to  pursue  the  same  course  in  cleansing  the  sink. 

FOR  CLEANSING  SILK. 

Pare  and  slice  three  Irish  potatoes;  pour  on  them  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  add  the  same  quantity  of  pure 
alcohol.  Sponge  the  silk  on  the  right  side,  and  when  half 
dry  iron  on  the  wrong  side.  This  will  clean  light  colored 
silks  as  well  as  black  silks,  also  cloth  and  crape. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  CLEAN  BLACK  SILK. 

Eip  the  silk  apart,  sleeves  as  well  as  skirt.  To  one 
tumbler  of  beer,  put  two  tumblerfuls  of  water.  Sponge  the 
silk  well  on  each  side;  roll  together,  and  leave  it  so  for  an 
hour.    Then  iron  on  the  wrong  side,  until  perfectly  dry. 


304 


1HE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  CLEAN  OIL  CLOTH. 

A  dingy  old  oil  cloth,  can  be  brightened  up  by  putting 
into  a  gallon  of  clear  water,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  powdered  borax. 
After  it  is  dissolved,  wipe  it  with  a  flannel  cloth,  which  you 
have  previously  dipped  in  milk;  wring  it  as  dry  as  possible, 
and  wipe  well  again. 

• 

TO  CLEAN  CARPETS. 

Put  into  a  bucket  six  pints  of  very  hot  water;  make  a 
good  thick  soapsuds  of  it,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ammonia.  First  damj^en  the  carpet  by  dipping  a  sponge  in 
the  suds,  then  soap  it  well.  Scrub  with  a  brush  if  very 
dirty;  if  not,  wash  thoroughly  with  the  sponge,  and  wipe 
dry.  If  any  of  the  colors  should  be  doubtful,  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ox  gall  in,  at  the  same  time  you  put  in  the 
ammonia.    Use  aqua  ammonia. 

TO  STIFFEN  COLLARS  AND  CUFFS. 

Put  a  small  lump  of  borax  in  a  wineglassful  of  hot  water, 
mix  in  it  some  cold  white  starch;  have  the  things  dry  be- 
fore starching,  then  starch  well  only  once.  Place  the  col- 
lars and  cuffs  snugly  in  a  towel,  with  a  fold  of  it  beneath 
each  row.  Roll  up  each  shirt  tightly;  have  a  polishing- 
iron  ready,  and  iron  at  once  very  quickly.  It  should  be 
very  hot,  and  if  kept  moving  rapidly  will  not  scorch.  Each 
article,  as  finished,  must  be  placed  close  to  the  fire.  It  is 
best  to  lay  the  cuffs  and  collars  on  a  tray,  and  place  the 
shirts  close  to  the  fire,  so  as  to  stiffen  them.  The  borax 
gives  the  glaze. 


Mi)  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


305 


TO  REMOVE  INK  AND  FRUIT  STAINS. 

Ten  grains  of  oxalid  acid,  in  a  half  a  pint  of  water,  will 
remove  all  ink  and  fruit  stains.  Wet  the  article  in  hot 
water,  and  apply  it  to  the  top  of  the  bottle,  so  the  liquid 
will  reach  well,  then  rinse  it. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS. 

Fruit  stains  can  be  removed  by  putting  the  article 
stained  into  boiling  water,  and  leaving  it  there  for  ten 
minutes.    Then  wash  it  out  in  the  usual  way. 

TO  REMOVE  DRY  PAINT  FROM  ARTICLES. 

Dry  paint  is  removed  by  dipping  a  swab  with  a  handle 
in  a  strong  solution  of  oxalic  acid.    It  softens  at  once. 

A  common  ley  of  wood-ashes,  will  soften  hard  putty  in 
a  few  minutes. 

If  a  door  does  not  shut  well,  put  a  drop  of  sweet  oil  on 
the  catch,  or  on  the  hinge,  if  it  creaks.  Soap  will  also 
have  the  same  effect,  but  the  oil  is  better  in  case  there 
should  be  any  rust. 

If  there  is  rust  on  a  flat  iron,  or  other  roughness,  put 
some  fine  salt  on  a  board,  and  rub  the  iron  rapidly  on  it 
until  it  moves  smoothly. 

TO  SET  COLORS. 

Put  into  an  ordinary-size  bucketful  of  water,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar  of  lead,  and  let  it  dissolve  thoroughly.  Soak 
the  article  in  it  for  a  half  an  hour,  then  wash  it  out. 


306 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


TO  TEST  EGGS. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  salt  in  two  ounces  of  water,  and 
put  the  eggs  in  it.  The  good  eggs  will  sink,  and  the  bad 
ones  will  float. 

TO  REMOVE  A  STOPPER. 

If  a  glass  stopper  will  not  move,  hold  the  neck  of  the 
bottle  to  a  flame,  or  warm  it  by  taking  two  turns  of  a 
string,  and  see-saw  it;  the  heat  engendered  expands  the 
neck  of  the  bottle,  before  a  corresponding  expansion 
reaches  the  stopper. 

FOR  PLANTS. 

A  weak  solution  of  ammonia  scattered  over  the  leaves  of 
plants,  from  a  fine  limber  brush,  gives  new  life  to  plants. 
Even  if  a  little  is  sprinkled  over  the  ear.th  at  their  roots, 
their  growth  is  invigorated. 

TO  WASH  FURNITURE. 

First  wash  off  the  furniture  with  cold  water;  wipe  dry, 
then  have  ready  three  pints  of  boiling  soapsuds,  to  which 
add  a  wineglassful  of  sweet  oil;  apply  this,  as  you  would 
water,  with  a  soft  sponge,  and  let  it  dry  on  the  furniture. 
If  you  attempt  to  wipe  it  with  a  cloth,  it  will  make  it  dull. 
Just  dip  the  sponge  and  squeeze  it  out  after  applying  it. 

TOOTH  POWDER. 

A  half  an  ounce  of  cuttlefish  bone;  half  an  ounce  of 
the  finest  prepared  chalk;  two  drachms  of  Peruvian  bark; 
two  drachms  of  Florentine  orris  root.  Eeduce  the  whole 
to  a  fine  powder  and  mix. 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


307 


TO  MAKE  COLD  CREAM. 

Shave  one  tablespoonful  of  spermacetti,  and  one  of 
white  wax,  very  fine,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  hot 
water  underneath.  Keep  the  water  under  the  mixture 
steadily  boiling,  and  stir  gently  all  the  time,  until  the 
mixture  is  the  consistency  of  rich  cream;  then  add  the  oil, 
and  stir  a  few  minutes  longer.  Just  as  you  remove  this 
from  the  fire,  add  two  drops  of  genuine  ottar  of  roses,  and 
put  away  for  use  in  a  small  pot  covered  with  kid. 

A  WASH  FOR  THE  HAIR. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  oorax,  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  gum  camphor  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  ;  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  bottle.  When 
using  it,  shake  well  before  rubbing  on  the  hair. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  CLEANSE  THE  HAIR. 

A  half  teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax  in  a  teacupful  of 
water,  makes  a  mild  and  efficient  hair  and  scalp  cleanser. 
Eub  it  into  the  hair  and  scalp  with  the  balls  of  the  fingers, 
with  the  head  held  over  a  basin,  and  the  eyes  kept  shut, 
until  the  entire  scalp  is  in  a  foam,  then  rinse  with  warm 
water. 

A  HAIR  TONIC. 

Scald  two  ounces  of  black  tea  in  one  gallon  of  boiling 
water;  add  three  ounces  of  glycerine,  one  quart  of  bay 
rum  and  half  an  ounce  of  the  tincture  of  cantharides;  scald 
for  five  minutes  longer;  strain  and  bottle.  This  will  pre- 
vent the  hair  from  falling  out,  and  at  the  same  time  will 
stimulate  a  new  and  healthy  growth. 


308 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


CAMPHOR  ICE. 

Heat  two  ounces  of  almond  oil,  then  melt  one  ounce  of 
white  wax  and  two  ounces  of  the  best  spermaceti,  and  stir 
in;  lastly,  add  one  ounce  of  liquid  camphor;  stir  well, 
and  put  into  a  small  jar  with  kid  over  it. 


When  I  call  for  a  coffeecupful  in  measuring,  I  mean 
one  that  holds  thirteen  tablespoonfuls;  a  teacupful,  one 
that  holds  eleven  tablespoonfuls;  a  cooking-spoonful,  one 
that  holds  two  tablespoonfuls. 


INDEX 


Page. 

BEEP  AND  ENTREES. 


Aspec  Jelly,   115 

"  How  to  Mould. .  115 

Beef  Bouilli   97 

"    Rolled   98 

"    with  Parsley   97 

Brains  in  Shells   116 

Boudins  a  la  Richelieu  114 

Sauce  for  the  above  114 

Calf's  Head  a  la  Terrapin. . .  107 

"   Fried   108 

Gravy  for  above   108 

Corn  Beef   99 

Cream  de  Yolaisle   ...  117 

Croquettes   Ill 

No.  2   112 

Oyster   112 

Salmon  113 

Lamb  100 

Mutton   100 

Observations  on  Choosing, 
Roasting,  Boiling  and  Fry- 
ing Meat   94 

Quenelles   114 

Rissoles   116 

To  Bake  a  Ham   103 

Sweetbreads   109 

To  Boil  Corn  Beef   99 

"     Ham   102 

"     Marrow-Bones   101 

To  Cook  a  Fillet  of  Beef. . .  96 
Campignons  with 

Sweetbreads   Ill 

To  Cure  Hams   102 

To  Fry  Sweetbreads   110 

"     Sweetbreads  No.  2. .  110 


Page. 


To  Roast  a  Pig   103 

Ribs  of  Beef   95 

a  Sirloin  of  Beef. .  96 

a  Fillet  of  Veal. . .  104 

Rolled  Steak   98 

To  Stew  Sweetbreads  with 

Cream   109 

To  Stuff  a  Calf's  Heart   106 

"     Liver   107 

Gravy  for  above    107 

To  Use  up  Cold  Roast  Beef.  101 

Tongue  a  la  Mode   100 

Veal  Cutlets   104 

"  Loaf   105 

"    No.  2   105 

"   No.  3   106 

BREADS,  etc. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. . .  22 

"     Flan'ICake  32 

Bread  or  Rolls   17 

Bread  Cakes   30 

Buckwheat  Cakes   30 

"   No.  2   31 

Corn  Bread   21 

Cornmeal  Batter  Cakes   28 

Muffins   24 

Mush   28 

"  Batter  Cak's  28 

Cream  Biscuit   23 

Eggs  with  Cheese   38 

"    to  Boil   38 

"   to  Poach   38 

"   to  Preserve  for  Winter 

Use   39 

English  Muffins   26 

French  Rolls   13 


309 


310 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Page. 

Good  Egg  Bread   22 

Good  Rusks   35 

Graham  Bread   16 

"     Muffins   24 

Hominy  Meal  Muffins   22 

Loaf  Bread  without  Lard. . .  16 

Light  Biscuits   19 

Light  Rolls   16 

Muffins  to  Bake  on  Griddle . .  26 

Oatmeal  Batter  Cakes   29 

Oatmeal  Grits   36 

Omelette   37 

Omelette,  Ham.   3? 

Omelette,  Small   37 

Pop  Overs   25 

Potato  Biscuits   15 

Potato  Cakes  with  Baking 

Powder   18 

Potato  Rolls   15 

Potato  Yeast   15 

Pounded  Biscuits   23 

Pounded  Biscuits.    No.  2...  23 

Pudding  Bread  of  Corn  meal  21 

Rich  Flannel  Cakes   32 

Rich  Muffins  with  Corn  meal  24 

Rice  Muffins   27 

Rolls   17 

Rosettes   27 

Salt-rising  Bread   18 

Sally  Lunn   19 

Sally  Lunn.— No.  2   20 

Spanish  Buns   36 

Stoche  Cake   20 

To  Cook  Corn  Grits   36 

To  Cook  Crushed  Indian  ...  29 

To  Cook  Oat  Flakes   29 

To  Make  Bread   14 

Tongue  Roast   40 

Waffles.    No.  1    33 

Waffles.    No.  2   34 

Waffles    No.  3   34 

Waffles,  German   35 

Waffles,  Rice   33 

Waffles,  Yeast   33 

Welsh  Rare-Bit   39 

"  No.  2   39 

Yeast,  First   13 

"     Second   13 

"     Flannel  Cakes   31 


Page. 

Yeast,  Muffins   25 

CAKES. 

General  Directions   222 

Angel's  Food  Cake   234 

Bannock   233 

Biscuit  Souffle  . ..  234 

Cinnamon   227 

Chocolate   238 

Fruit   243 

Cocoanut   225 

No.  2   226 

No.  3   226 

Sponge   241 

Cookies   222 

Cornstarch   236 

Crullers   225 

No.  2   225 

Cup   235 

"  No.  2   235 

Custard   24 

Ginger   231 

Ginger,  Hard   232 

Golden  .   ,   23* 

Horse  Manders   227 

Icing  for  Cakes  .   24 

No.  2   24 

Jumbles  

No.  2   22£ 

"    3   22£ 

"    4   229 

"      Cinnamon   227 

Molasses  Gingerbread   229 

Mrs.  Duffrie's  Ginger  Nuts. .  230 

Newton   232 

One  Egg   23'J 

Scotch,   2SI 

Silver   23* 

Sponge  Ginger  Bread   230 

No.  2..  231 

Spice   236 

"   No.  2   237 

Sponge   240 

"     No.  2   24C 

"     Cheap   241 

Tea   221 

"  No.  2   223 

"    "  3   223 

"    "  4   223 


■ 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


311 


Page. 


Tea  No.  5   224 

Vanilla  236 

"     Filling  for   236 

Wafer  « .    242 

White  232 

"    No.  2  233 

CREAMS,  ICES,  ETC. 

Angel's  Food   218 

Bavaroise   211 

Bivavone   218 

Charlotte  Russe   207 

"    No.  2   208 

"  "     "    3  208 

Cream  for  Puffs   209 

"    Apple  210 

"    Florence   210 

"    Italian  210 

"    Pine  Apple   212 

"    Spanish  210 

"    Meringues   209 

Crerne  Diplomate  217 

Custard,  Baked   219 

Chocolate  218 

No.  2  219 

"3  219 

Lemon   220 

Spanish  221 

Sponge  221 

Vanilla   220 

FISH. 

Codfish  Balls   78 

Cream  Fish   76 

Fish  in  Shells   77 

Fricasse  of  Lobsters   86 

Soft-shell  Crabs.  88 

Lobster  Balls   86 

Chops   83 

Sauce  for  Lobster  Chops   84 

Baked  Shad   77 

"     Salmon  or  Lobster..  79 

Preparing  Oysters   85 

To  Boil  Oysters   82 

Pike   75 

"       Red  Snapper   75 

"        Spanish  Mackerel. .  80 

To  Can  Terrapins   92 


Page. 


To  Cook  Codfish   78 

Crabs   87 

To  Devil  Crabs   86 

To  Dress  and  Bake  Fish. ...  76 

"  Cook  Terrapin.  89 

"     "       "  No.  2  90 

it             <<       <t          <  c     < »     g  g-j^ 

ti  <«         f(  (C      it  ^ 

Egg  Balls  for  Terrapin   92 

To  Fry  Fish   81 

"     Smelts   79 

"     Fillets  of  Fish   80 

"     Frogs   89 

"     Oysters   82 

"     No.  2    83 

"     Soft-shell  Crabs   88 

To  Griddle  Oysters   82 

"  Scallop  Oysters   84 

"     No.  2....  85 

"  Stew  Oysters   81 

How  to  Serve  Fried  Fish ...  81 
"    "     "       "  Oysters 

in  shell   93 

FOWLS    AND  GAME. 

Chicken  Pie   132 

Curry   131 

Fricassee  of  Chicken   129 

Brown.  130 
Jambalaya  of  Chicken  and 

Rice    131 

Quails  and  Truffles   135 

Stuffing  for  Turkey   126 

"     with  Oys- 
ters  126 

Stuffing  for  Turkey  with 

Chestnuts   127 

To  Boil  Chicken    129 

Grouse   134 

Turkey   125 

Sauce  for  above   125 

To  Broil  Prairie  Chicken . . .  134 

Quail   135 

Venison  Steaks. .  .  137 

To  Cook  Canvas-back  Duaks.  133 

To  Fry  Chicken   130 

To  Roast  Chicken   128 

Ducks   132 

Wild  Ducks   133 


312 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE 


Page. 


To  roast  Goose   128 

Quails   134 

Reed  Birds   135 

Snipe,  "Woodcock.  136 
Yenison   136 

To  Roast  and  Stuff  a  Turkey  127 

MEATS  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Beef  Hash,  Dry   42 

"    Stew   42 

Lamb  Chops   43 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Stew   43 

Mutton  Hash,  Cold   44 

Sausage  Meat   45 

"  No.  2   46 

"  No.  3   46 

To  Broil  a  Steak   41 

"    No.  2   41 

To  Cook  Sausages   46 

To  Devil  Ham   43 

To  Fry  Hogs'  Brains   47 

*'  Boil    "    Feet   48 

t*    n      (t      u  49 

"  Stew  "      "  .  .  .  .  .  .  . '.  V.  49 

To  Make  Yeal  Hash   43 

To  Prepare  Hogs'  Brains. . .  47 

Tripe  * .  48 

"  Stew  Tripe   48 

Turkey  Hash   44 

"  No.  2   45 

"  No.  3   45 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS. 

Catsup,  Cucumber   272 

Oyster   276 

Tomato   271 

"   No.  2   271 

"   Green   272 

Celery  Yinegar   274 

Chow-Chow   267 

"    Cucumber   269 

French  Mustard   275 

Peach  Mangoes   269 

Pickles,  Cabbage   268 

"      French   264 

"      Mushroom   266 

Oyster   275 

"   No.  2   276 


Page. 


Pickels,  Rough  and  Ready. .  265 
Sweet  Cant  elope. . .  265 

Venetian   274 

Yellow  263 

Spiced  Peaches   269 

Stuffing  for  forty  Melons   270 

To  Green  Pickles  in  the  Fall .  261 
"  Prepare  Yinegar  for  Cu- 
cumber Pickles   260 

"  Prepare  Horse  Radish. ..  277 
"  No.  2.  277 

stuff  Cucumbers  261 

"    No.  2..  262 

Sauce,  Chili   273 

Tomato   273 

PRESERVES,    SYRUPS,  CORDIALS 
AND  CANDIES. 

Apple  Butter  252 

Candy   258 

"   Philadelphia  Walnut. .  259 

Caramels   258 

"     Chocolate   259 

Cordial,  Blackberry  254 

Orange  256 

Peach  254 

"       Raspberry   254 

EggNogg   253 

Jam,  Blackberry  247 

"    Red  Raspberry   208 

Jelly,  Currant  247 

"    Quince   247 

Lemon  Syrup   253 

"   No.  2  253 

Marmalade,  Apple   251 

Orange  249 

Peach  249 

Pine  Apple....  251 

Quince  250 

Preserves,   Cherry   254 

**        Citron  or  Water- 
melon 246 

Preserves,  Fresh  Figs  249 

Peach   246 

Strawberry  242 

Punch,  a  la  Regent  255 

for  Bottling  256 

Whisky  for  Bottling.  257 
Raspberry  Yinegar   258 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE.  313 


Page. 


Taffy   258 

Tomato  Figs   248 

To  Brandy  Green  Gages. . . .  248 

"  Dry  Apples   252 

"   "    Cherries  251 

"  Prepare  Honey  for  Win- 
ter Use  252 

Wine,  Blackberry   257 

"     Currant..   257 

PUDDINGS  AND  PIES. 

Apple  Charlotte   173 

No.  2   174 

To  Make  Crust  for   173 

Blanc  MaDge   181 

"     No.  2   181 

Brown  Betty   185 

Dutch  Puffs  201 

Fritters,  Bell   180 

Bread   179 

French   180 

Spanish   180 

Irish  Potato  Dumplings  183 

Lemon  Pies   178 

Mince  Meat   203 

Merangued  Apples   176 

Orange  Pie   179 

Pancakes   185 

Pastry   177 

Puff  Paste  177 

PUDDINGS. 

Baked  Apple   175 

"    Bread   196 

"    No.  2   196 

"    Simple   196 

"    Indian   187 

Boiled  Bread   194 

"   No.  2   195 

"    Indian   187 

Cabinet   200 

Sauce  for   201 

Cake   198 

Christmas   199 

Chocolate   199 

Cocoanut   192 

Cottage   189 

Corn-starch   198 

Feather  Cake   191 


Page. 


Fig   191 

Ginger  Cake   186 

Ice   200 

Irish  Potato   183 

Lemon   193 

Meringue   191 

Nonpariel   197 

Orange   192 

Plum,  Simple   201 

"     English  202 

"    Poor  Man's   202 

Pumpkin   198 

Rice   187 

"  No.  2   188 

"  No.  3   188 

"  and  Cream   188 

Roly-Poly   190 

Silver  Cake. . ,   186 

Sauce  for   186 

Silver  Cake,  Simple   194 

Suet   189 

Sweet  Potato   184 

"    No.  2   184 

Tapioca  with  Cocoanut. . .  .  198 

Transparent   193 

Yankee  Cake   190 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   183 

Tapioca  and  Apples   176 

To  Bake  Apples   174 

To  Fry  Apples   175 


To  Prepare  Apples  for  Pies..  172 
No.  2....  172 
No.  3....  173 


SALADS. 


Salad  Dressing,  No.  1   138 

No.  2   138 

No.  3   139 

"   of  Cabbage  and  Celery,  140 

"    of  Shrimps   140 

"   for  Sweetbread   139 

Dressings  for  Cold  Slaw   141 

SAUCE  FOR  MEATS. 

Brown  Sauce  for  Meats   120 

Caper  Sauce   118 

Campignon  Sauce   123 

Lobster  Sauce   122 


314 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Page. 


Mint  Sauce  119 

Oyster  Sauce  for  Boiled  Tur- 
key  120 

Sauce  a  la  Hollandaise,  for 
Fish   124 

Sauce  Tartare,  for  Fish   121 

"    for  Baked  or  Boiled 
Fish   122 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Turkey  123 

"    "   Bouilli   118 

"    "    Quenelles   121 

"    "    Truffles   121 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Steaks  and 
Chops   119 

White  Sauce  for  Vegetables.  124 

To  make  Drawn  Butter   119 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Hard  Sauce,  for  Puddings. .  206 

No.  2  206 

Pudding  Sauce  204 

"    No.  2   205 

"   No.  3    205 

"    No.  4   205 

Wine  Sauce  for  Puddings. . .  204 

SOUPS. 

Asparagus   54 

Beef,  Stock  of   50 

Black   58 

"    Cheap   59 

"    No.  2   60 

Bouillon,  or  Clear   52 

Cabbage     53 

Calf's  Head   64 

"    No.  2   65 

"    with  Force  Meat 

Balls   65 

Chestnut   65 

Chicken,  Puree  of   71 

"       White  Consomme  of  70 

"       Soup  for  the  Poor.  71 

Simple   66 

Corn   57 

Crab  Gumbo   67 

Cream  Celery   69 

"    Sago   69 

Green  Pea   53 


Page. 


Gumbo   66 

Julienne   51 

Leek  .....  53 

Lobster   74 

Mock  Turtle,  Simple    61 

with  Force 

Meat  Balls  ,  61 

Mock  Turtle,  Canned   61 

No.  2.  62 

Okra   58 

Oyster   68 

Oyster  Gumbo   68 

Soup  a  la  Reine   73 

Split  Pea  „   53 

Tomato   56 

"     No.  2   56 

"     No.  3   57 

Turtle  Bean  Soup   62 

"   No.  2   63 

Vegetable   51 

Oyster   67 

Vermicelli   52 

White   71 

How  to  Make: 

Simple  Soup  Stock   50 

The  Yeast   55 

Brown  sugar  for  coloring.  72 

VEGETABLES. 

Beans,  Lima  or  Butter   159 

"     Snap   159 

Cauliflower  served  with  Fried 

Chicken   154 

Cauliflower  withWhite  Sauce  153 

Corn  Fritters   157 

"    Pudding   156 

No.  2   156 

No.  3   156 

Egg  Plant  Pudding   158 

Gumbo   157 

Hominy  Fritters  , . .  170 

Puffs   171 

Maccaroni   162 

No.  2   162 

No.  3   163 

withWhite  Sauce  163 

Parsnip  Fritters   168 

No.  2   169 

Salsify  Fritters   167 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


315 


Page. 


Potatoes,  Croquettes  of   146 

"  No.  2  147 
"      a  la  Lyonnaise. . . .  145 

"      a  la  Neige   146 

"      a  la  Parisienne  ...  145 

"      Saratoga   144 

Scalloped   143 

Shoo-fly   146 

Rice  Croquettes   160 

No.  2   160 

Turnips  with  White  Sauce. .  166 
"    Brown    "    ..  166 
To  Bake  Potatoes  with  their 

jackets  on   142 

To  Bake  Potatoes  with  Beef  146 

Cauliflower   153 

"      Pumpkins  169 

Salsify   167 

Sweet  Potatoes  147 

Tomatoes  with  Stuff- 
ing  149 

To  Boil  Cabbage   150 

Green  Corn   155 

Hominy   170 

Onions   165 

Parsnips   168 

Potatoes   142 


Page. 

FOOD  IN  SEASON. 

February   295 

March   295 

April   296 

May   296 

June   297 

July   298 

August   298 

September...   299 


MENUS  FOR  BREAKFASTS,  LUNCH- 
ES AND  DINNERS. 

Spring  Breakfasts,  Nos.  1.  2.  278 
Summer  "  Nos.  1,  2,  3.  279 
Fall  "     Nos.  1,2...  280 


Page. 


To  Boil  Rice   159 

Turnips   165 

To  Cook  Asparagus   152 

Sauce....  152 

Beets   151 

"       Burr  Artichokes ... .  165 

"       Green  Peas   154 

:<       Marrowfat  Peas   154 

Spinach   151 

"       Summer  Squash. .. .  152 

To  Fry  Cabbage   151 

"     Celery   161 

"     Egg  Plant   157 

"     Okra  and  Corn   158 

"     Potatoes   145 

"     Tomatoes   147 

To  Mash  Potatoes   142 

To  Scallop  Tomatoes   150 

To  Stuff  Tomatoes   148 

"     No.  2  ....  149 

To  Stew  Celery   161 

"      Green  Corn   155 

Onions  with  Cream.  164 

Potatoes   144 

Pumpkins   169 

Salsisfy   167 

"      Tomatoes   148 


Page. 

r  Winter  Breakfasts,Nos.  1,2,  3  281 
Spring  Lunches,  Nos.  1,  2. .  281 
Summer  "  Nos.  1,  2. .  282 
Fall  "  Nos.  1,  2. .  283 
Winter  "  Nos.  1,  2,  3.  284 
Spring  Dinners,  Nos.  1,  2,  3, 

4   284 

Summer  Dinners,  Nos.  1,  2, 

3,  4,  5   286 

Fall  Dinners,  Nos.  1,  2,  3,  4.  288 
Winter    "     Nos.  1,  2,  3,  4, 

5,  6   290 

Winter  Suppers,  Nos.  1,  2. .  292 

HOUSEHOLD  NOTES. 

Ammonia  for  Plants   306 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


316 


THE  KENTUCKY  HOUSEWIFE. 


Page. 


A  Compound  to  wash  with. .  301 

A  Hair  Tonic   307 

A  Wash  for  the  Hair   307 

Camphor  Ice   308 

Soap   301 

"  Borax  for  Bleaching .. . .  302 

To  Clean  Black  Silk   303 

Brass   303 

Carpets   304 

Oil  Cloth   304 

Old  Matting   303 

Silk   303 

To  Make  a  Whitewash   302 


Page. 


To  make  Cold  Cream   307 

Soft  Soap   302 

To  Remove  a  Stopper   306 

"  Dry  Paint  from 

Articles   306 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains   305 

Grease  from  Tin.  303 
Ink  and  Fruit 

Stains   305 

To  Set  Collars   305 

To  Stiffen  Collars  and  Cuffs.  304 

To  Test  Eggs   306 

To  Wash  Furniture   306 


C74  891 


•        ^f>  *J 


•ffl^-     ^      "JOS'  -AWA* 


>6   *°  ^ 


ft 


.  «  • 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC. 


^    JAN  89 


N.  MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA  46962 


r      *  '0"'' 


