Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


>_  J 


Ladies'  Home 

Cook  Book 


A  Complete  Manual 

of  Household  Duties 


Well  tried  Recipes  compiled  from  famous  sources 


"Though  we  tat  little  flesh  and  drink  no  wlne^ 
Yet,  let's  be  meny;  we'll  have  tea  and  toasti 

Costards  for  supper,  and  an  endless  host 
Of  syllabubs  and  Jellies  and  mince  plei^ 

And  other  such  lady-Uke  luxuries.  \ 


I  t  OOUPBJD  BY   I   I 

JULIA  nacNAIR  WRIGHT,  et  al 


eC  MTHB  OOHPLETB  BOHB'* 


TOGETHER 

BILLS  OF  FARE  for  ALL  SEASONS 


BY 

MARION   HARLAND 


QBTKD  1896 

I*  M.  Paucbr 


(^.^A^CI— C.rlv-Y^ 


»  t 


FORE  WORD. 


»  '  * 

Th8  Bubjeot  of  eating  has  called  fcrth  many  remarks  both  witty  Mrf 
wise.  Popular  sayings  have  sometimes  a  world  of  philosophy  and  informa« 
tion  hidden  in  them, — their  choicer  pai\-^*fis  the  pearl  in  the  oyster. 

*^  A  man  is  as  what  he  eats  ** — is  o.ne  of  these  sayings,  and  science  rises 
up  to  explain. that  gross,  ill-prepared,  excessiye  food,  makes  the  brutali 
vicious  human,  just  as  limited,  watery  stale  diet  gi^es  us  an  ansBmio  human, 
dull  of  brain  and  inclined  to  low  vices. 

The  question  *^W}iat  is  man?**  has  been  answered— r*^ A  cooking 
animal."  Man  only  of  animals  cooks  his  food,  and  the  higher  the. scale  of 
civilization,  the  more  elaborate,  dainty  and  scientific  is  the  cooking.  Fable 
tells  us  that  Prometheus  stole  fire 'from  heaven  to  enable  man  to  cook  his 
food,  and  so  lifted  him  hearer  to  the  jealous  gods.  Only  ^^  civilized  and  en- 
lightened "  peoples  have  cookbooks.  The  mission  of  tho  cookbook  is  no 
despicable  one,  it  may  have  a  large  share  in  upbuilding  the  health,  the  for- 
tunes, the  morals,  and  consequently  the  happiness  of  households.  Health 
depends  largely  upon  clean,  digestible,  well  prepared,  agreeable  food.  The 
carefully  edited  cookbook  tells  us  how  to  secure  this,  but  it  does  moi^  it 
directs  us  how  to  gain  from  all  food  stufTs  their  full  dietic  values. 

Nearly  half  the  family  expenses  are  for  food  and  fuel.  The  book  that 
tells  us  how  to  avoid  waste,  how  to  get  the  best,  most  appetizing,  and  mosi 
nourishing  food  for  the  least  money ;  how  to  prepare  this  food  in  the  nicest 
way,  and  with  the  least  possible  cost  as  to  fuel,  has  certainly  a  mission,  that 
well  executed  will  tell  happily  upon  the  family  bank  account. 

The  well-fed  family,  especially  when  that  family  is  not  **  eating  up  ilp 
margins,**  is  usually  the  cheery,  comfortable,  amiable  family ;  and  any  phy* 
sioian  can  speedily  expound  the  close  connection  between  good  momls  and 
good  digestion.  It  is  Taine  who  remarks  that  he  who  is  placidly  iligestii^ 
a  well  oool:c^  fliiinei',  is  incapable  of  a  bad  aetion*  He  is  certainty  lik»fy  tm 
be  in  fva  optimistic  ft-Hino  of  mind. 

(3)      . 


^\  y .-' 


FOB£  WOB& 

tested  recipes,  biB  been  compiled  by  com> 
book  for  the  household  with  recipes  suited  to 
1  suggestions  for  the  healthy,  the  invalid,  the 
'  home  meals  and  the  more  elaborate  dinner, 
he  home-mother  can  find  upon  its  pages  direc- 
all:  the  purchase  money  will  be  as  the  "open 
I,  the  covers  will  open  as  the  door  in  the  cave, 
intly  appear. 

o'tempt  to  coarse  gluttony,  or  to  incite  appetite 
I  the  recipes  are  strictly  within  temperance 
ipprobntion  of  the  careful  mothers  of  the  land, 
vith  confidence  as  tried  and  proved,  the  com- 

weeta  I  know,  .tbe  ebanns  I  fed 
{ l&ceuM  and  my  ereulng  meal." 

',  that  the  fabled  nectar  and  ambrosia  of  the 

mes  for  coffee  and'salads  I    Here  we  have  tlie 

ready  coffee  and  salads,  cakes  and  confections, 

led,  broiled  and  stewed,  to  suit  the  household. 

requirements  for  each  meal  in  the  year.    If  it  is  true,  as  a  farmer's  wife  said 

''lately,  that  the  boys  could  be  kept  on  the  farm"if  their  meals  had  a  pleasing 

variety,  and  they  were  given  desert  at  least  three  times  a  week,"  this  book 

WiU  find  part  o£  its  mis^on  in  keeping  our  boys  on  the  farm.    Try  it. 

J.  Mo.  K.  W. 


CONTENm 


\    • 


OABVINO  »  m 

SOUPS  •  •         . 

FISH 

SHELLFISH       •  • 

POULTBY  AND  GAME 

HEATS 

SAUCES  AND  DBESSINQS 

SALADS 

VEGETABLES 

EGGS 

BBEAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC.     • 

PASTJIY  AND  PIES       • 

CAKES 

PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

HOT  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS 

ICE  CREAM  AND  ICES       . 

COFFEE,  TEA  AND  BEVERAGES 

OHAFING  DISH   RECIPES 

BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS 

CANNING   AND  PRESERVING 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS    • 

CANDIES 

HOME  REMEDIES 

LAUNDRY   RECIPES      •  • 

TOILET   RECIPES 

MARKETING        v      t 


.   7 

20 

.  81 

.  86 

.   89 

.  47 

.   64 

69 

.   75 

89 

.98 

104 
.  Ill 

181 
.  141 

145 
.  149 

163 
.  167 

ICO 
.164 

172 
.  179 

189 
.  181  ' 

193 
.  197 

20i. 


(i»^ 


2u. 
210 


316 
S18 
218 


CAHTING. 


BvBBT  one  should  learn  to  carve,  and  to  do  it  well  and  gracefolly. 

When  you  attempt  to  carve  do  the  best  you  can  every  time.  Never 
allow  yourself  to  be  careless  about  it,  even  should  the  only  spectators  be ' 
your  wife  and  children.  A  firm  steady  hand,  a  cool  collected  manner,  and 
confidence  in*  one's  ability  will  help  greatly.  One  must  learn  first  of  all  to 
carve  neatly,  without  scattering  crumbs  or  splashing  gravy  over  the  cloth  or 
platter ;  also  to  cut  straight,  uniform  slices. 

In  carving,  your  knife  should  not  be  too  heavy,  but  of  a  sufficient  size, 
and  keen  edge.  In  using  it,  no  great  personal  strength  is  required,  as  con* 
stant  practice  will  render  it  an  easy  task  to  carve  the  most  difficult  articles ; 
more  depending  on  address  than  force. 

The  dish  should  be  sufficiently  near  to  enabld  the  carver  to  reach  it 
without  rising,  and  the  seat  should  be  elevated  so  as  to  give  command  over 
the  joint. 

Steel  knives  and  forks  should  on  no  account  be  used  in  helping  fish,  as 
these  are  liable  to  impart  a  very  disagreeable  flavor.  A  fish-trowel  of  silver 
or  plated  silver  is  the  proper  article  to  use. 

When  serving  fowls,  or  meat,  accompanied  with  stuffing,  the  guests 
should  be  asked  if  they  would  have  a  portion,  as  it  is  not  every  one  to  whom 
the  flavor  of  stuffing  is  agreeable ;  in  filling  their  plates,  avoid  heaping  one 
thing  upon  another,  as  it  makes  a  bad  appearance. 

The  carver  should  acquaint  himself  with  the  choicest  parts  and  morsels^ 
and  to  give  each  guest  an  equal  share  of  those' tidbiti  should  be  his  maxim. 

Do  not  appear  to  make  hard  work  of  your  carving,  nor  scowl  or  contort 
your  mouth  if  a  difficult  spot  be  touched.  Work  slowly  and  skillfully,  and 
thus  avoid  the  danger  of  landing  the  joint  in  your  neighbor's  lap. 

An  essential  aid  to  easy  carving,  and  one  often  overlooked,  is  that  the 
platter  be  large  enough  to  hold  not  merely  the  joint  or  fowl  while  whole,  but 
also  the  several  portions  as  they  are  detached. 

To  preserve  the  temper  and  cutting  qualities  of  a  fine  steel  carving 
knife,  do  not  allow  it  to  come  in  contact  with  intense  heat.    A  carving 

C) 


iviNa 

jurpose  than  to  carve,  never  ft)r  cutting 

kitclien. 

it  for  shnrpening,  and  tlie  knife  cleaned 

11  of  which  is  quite  essential  to  8ucce»s- 

of  carving,  more  infonmition  will  he 
e  well  and  hy  a  little  practice,  than  by 


Q0ABTEB. 

stews  and  steaks. 
30t  roasts,  and  boiling  pieces, 
iteaks,  pot  roosts,  and  is  a  splendid  Doil 

ng  and  boiling. 

ihes. 

fat,  makes  e  nice  boiling  piece,  good  jbr 

and  corned  beef. 

beef  and  boiling  pieces.- 

td  sirloin  steaks. 

QnARTEB. 

is  considered  the  best  piece  for  roasting 

rtba,  nsed  for  masting. 

f,  stews,  soups  and  spiced  beef^ 

quality  of  roasts  and  steaks. 


CARYING*  9 

•  •  ^  ,         •       . 

N.  Shoulder  piece,  used  for  stews,  soups,  pot  roasts,  mince  meat  and 
hashes. 

O.  P.  Neck  or  sticking  pieces>  used  for  soups,  stocks,  mince  meat, 
bologna  sausage,  etc. 

R.  Shin  or  shank,  used  generally  for  soups  and  stewing. 

S.  Cheek. 

The  tongue  is  used  fresh,  salted  or  pickled.  The  tail  is  used  for  soup. 
The  heart  is  often  stuffed  and  roasted.  TUd  liver  b  usually  fried,  and  the 
kidneys  make  a  very  nice  dish  stewed. 


Veal. 
Hind  Qitabtbb. 

A.  Loin,  chump  end,  used  for  chops  and  roasts* 

B.  Loin,  the  choicest  cuts  used  for  roasts  and  chops* 

C.  Fillet,  used  for  roasts*and  cutlets. 

D.  The  hind-knuckle  or  hock,  used  for  stews,  potpies,  eto., 

Fobs  Quabtsb. 

•  * 

B.  Best  rib  cuts. 

F.  Breast,  best  end  for  chops,  roasting  and  st^ws. 

0.  K.  Neck,  scrag-end  used  for  stews,  broth,  etc. 

H.  Blade-bone,  used  for  pot  roasts  and  baked  dishes. 

1.  Fore-knuckle,  used  for  soups  and  stews. 

J.  Breast,  brisket-end  used  for  baking,  stews  and  potpies. 

In  veal  the  hind  quarter  is  divided  in  loin  and  leg,  and  the  fore  quarter 
into  breast,  neck  and  shoulder. 

The  best  veal  is  from  calves  a  month  to  six  weeks  old.  '  Younger  than 
that  it  is  not  wholesome,  whereas  when  about  a  month  old  the  character  of 
the  meat  changes  from  the  use  of  grass  and  strong  food. 


MlTTTOH. 


maat  piei. 

;,  baked  diBfaes,  filling  and  roasting. 

Dps,  rib  chops  ;  also  used  for  choice  stavB. 

ihai,  stewa,  chops  and  cheap  toasU. 

aata  and  chops. 

oasta  and  chops. 

«  pitxd  for  boiling. 

hree  yean  old.    For  mntton  roasts,  choose 

,oia  or  haanch.    The  leg  shoold  be  boiled. 

nsed.    A  saddle  of  mutton  is  the  middle 
one.    Almost  any  part  will  do  for  broth. 


POKK. 

s  and  roasts. 

1  shoulder,  pickling  and  is  good  for  boiliiig 

'  roasts  and  chops. 

loicest  roasts  and  ohops. 

>r  pickling  ia  salt,  and  smoked  baoou. 

la,  roasts,  and  corned  pork. 

ire  the  spareribs. 

eese,  etc.,  the  jowl  is  nice  for  smoking,  the 

The  feet  are  usually  uaad  for  aouse  and  jally. 


A.  N»ok  or  sorag,  ased  for  soups. 

B.  Shoulder,  used  for  roaating,  it  may  be  boned  and  stotttd. 

C.  Fore-loiu,  used  for  steaks  and  roasts. 

l>.  Breast,  used  for  stewiug  and  bakiug  dishes. 

E.  Loin  or  haunch,  used  for  stews,  steaks,  and  roasts.  The  ribs  oat 
close  maj  be  used  for  soups.  This  part  is  also  used  for  smoked  venisou  and 
for  pickling. 

The  desh  of  the  doe  when  about  four  years  old  is  the  sweetest  and  best  of  - 
venison.  The  buck  venison  is  in  season  from  June  to  October,  and  the  doe 
from  October  to  December.  Neither  should  be  killed  at  any  other  time  and 
DO  meat  requires  so  much  oare  in  killing,  presetving  and  dreesing  as  venison.  . 


SiBLOiK  or  Bbbv. 
TUb  ohoios  roasting  pieoe  should  be  out  with  one  good  firm  stroke 
ftom  end  to  end  of  the  joint,  at  the  upper  part  in  thin,  long,  even  slices  in 


igage  it  from  the  bone 
^  the  tip  of  the  knife, 
d  before  it  its  cooked, 
alice  is  carved  across 

rom  the  thick  end  to- 
la can  be  more  nenti/ 
meat  and  the  rib  and 
t  into  slices. 
I,  as  the  middle  is  the 
elicaojr  and  making  it 


b  taken  from  the  leg 
i  should  be  taken  out 
d  the  opening  tightly 

I  of  the  upper  part,  or 
some  of  the  dressing 

ed,  and  when  roaated 
flavor. 


rter  of  Ifirab  after  the 
parts — it  rightly  con- 


CARTINCL  18 

sUts  or  tvo— the  rib  bones  and  the  giistly  brisket.  This  is  done  by  cutting 
ill  tlie  direotioa  of  the  lines  A  und  B,  shown  by  cut.  Divide  the  gristly  part 
in  the  direotioa  of  O  and  D,  to  serve  to  thot>e  who  prefer  it.  This  part  of  a 
breast  of  veul  sten-ed  is  particularly  tender  and  inviting.  The  rib:^  are  to  be 
separated  id  the  direction  of  E  and  F. 

The  carver  should  ask  the  guests  whether  they  have  a  preference  for 
the  brisket  or  ribs ;  and  if  there  be  a  sweetbread  served  with  the  dish,  as  is 
fretjuoiitly  with  this  roast  of  veal>  eacli  person  should  receive  a  piece. 

Though  veal  and  Iamb  contain  less  nutrition  than  beef  and  mutton,  in 
proportion  to  their  weiglit,  they  are  often  preferred  to  these  meats  on  accouiit 
of  tlieir  delicacy  of  texture  and  flavor.  A  whole  breast  of  veal  weighs 
from  uine  to  twelve  pounds. 


Lbg  of  Motion. 

Sheep  from  three  to  eiz  years  old  furnish  the  best  and  most  nutritious 
mutton ;  at  this  age  the  animal  is  in  its  prime,  and  the  flesh  is  Sim,  full  of 
rich  juices,  and  dark  colored.  When  mutton  is  two  years  old,  the  meat  is 
flabby,  pale  and  savorless. 

In  carving  a  leg,  turn  the  knuckle  to  the  left,  plant  the  fork  firmly 
on  tlie  side  of  tlie  joint,  and  begin  by  cutting  across  Dear  the  middle  ta 
the  bone  in  the  direction  from  D  to  £,  and  slices  may  be  taken  from  either 
side. 

Some  very  good  outs  are  taken  from  the  broad  end  fti>Q)  C  to  B,  and 
the  fat  on  this  ridge  is  very  much  liked  by  many.  The  most  delicious  part 
is  obtained  by  cutting  to  the  bone  at  G ;  the  cutting  should  be  continued 
in  a  semicircle  in  the  direction  of  F  to  obtain  the  cramp-bone.  The  meat 
is  always  drier  near  the  knuckle,  but  the  most  finely  grained  part  is  oh 
tained  &om  the  under  side,  which  should  be  carved  lengthwise* 


CARTING.  18 

RamoTs  tlu  skin  after  the  bam  is  cooked  and  wnd  to  the  table  vitb 
dote  of  dry  pepper  or  dry  mustai-d  on  the  top  and  plenty  of  fresh  pariley 
aronnd  the  dish.  This  will  improve  the  appearanoe  and  make  the  ham  mote 
i&Titiiig. 

Bibb  or  Pobe. 

To  carve  a  sparerib  of  pork,  alioe  off  the  fleshy  parte;  then  dbjolnt  and 
separate  the  bones. 

A  leg  of  pork  jaaj  be  carved  in  the  same  manacr  as  bam. 


Hauhoh  op  VBKiaoN. 

A  baanoh  of  Teonsoo  ia  the  prime  joint,  and  is  carved  very  dmflar  to 
almOBt  any  roasted  or  boiled  leg.  First  cut  it  crosswise  down  to  the  bone,  fol- 
lowing the  line  from  A  to  C ;  then  turn  the  platter  with  the  knuckle  farthest 
from  you,  put  in  the  point  of  the  knife  and  cut  down  as  far  as  you  can  in 
the  direotiona  shown  by  the  dotted  lines  from  B  to  D  ;  cat  this  slice  from 
either  side  as  desired.  Slices  of  venison  should  be  cut  thin  and  served  with 
gravy  if  guests  please  it.  The  fat  is  very  apt  to  get  cool  soon,  and  become 
hard  and  disagreeable  to  the  palate ;  it  should,  therefore,  be  served  on  a 
waiter  dish,  if  possible. 

Ahaanoh  ofmattoalsoarvedin  the  same  way.  * 


A  turkey  baviagbem  relieved  from  stnngeandakowQrsqsffdliitniBu^ 


CABTnra  n 


Fowls. 

Poultry  should  be  young,  plump  and  fat ;  the  meat  is  not  savory  if  old 
and  tough.  This  is  especially  true  of  ducks  and  geese.  In  the  opinion  of 
many  persons  to  let  poultry  hang  a  day  or  two  to  make  it  ^^  high,"  improTOf 
the  flavor.  ^  • 

First  insert  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  and  cut  to  the  bone  j 
then  turn  the  leg  back  with  the  fork,  and  if  the  fowl  is  tender  the  joint  will 
give  away  easily.  The  wing  is  broken  off  the  same  way,  only  dividing  the 
joint  with  the  knife,  in.  the  direction  from  A  to  C.  The  four  quarters  hav«' 
ing  been  removed  in  thb  way,  take  off  the  merry-thought  and  the  neck-bones ; 
these  last  are  to  be  removed  by  putting  the  knife  in  at  D  and  B,  pressing  it 
hard,  when  they  will  break  off  from  the  part  that  sticks  to  the  breast.  To 
separate  the  breast  from  the  body  of  the  fowl,  cut  through  the  tender  ribs 
close  to  the  breast,  quite  down  to  the  tail.  Now  turn  the  fowl  over,  back 
upwards;  put  the  knife  into  the  bone  midway  between  the  neck  and  the 
rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  readily.  Turn  now  the 
rump  from  you,  and  take  off  very  neatly  the  two  side-bones  and  the  fowl- is 
carved.  In  separating  the  thigh  from  the  druni-stick,- the  knife  must  be  in- 
serted exactly  at  the  joint,  for  if  not  accurately  hit,  some  difficulty  w^l  be 
experienced  to  get  them  apart;  this  is  easily  acquired  by  practice.  There  is 
no  difference  in  carving  roast  and  boiled  fowls  if  full  grdwn ;  but  in  very 
young  fowlt,  the  breast  is  usually  served  whole ;  the  wings  and  breast  are 
considered  the  best  part,  but  in  young  ones  the  legs  are  the  most  juicyf  In 
the  case  of  a  capon  or  large  fowl,  slices  may  be  cut  off  at  the  breast,  the 
same  as  carving  a  pheasant. 

4 

Parteedgb.  * 

Roast  partridge  is  cut  up  in  the  same  way  as  a  fowl.  The  prime  parts 
of  this  bird  are  the  wings,  breast  and  merry-thought.  -When  the  bird  is 
small,  the  two  latter  parts  are  not  divided.  The  wing  is 'considered  the  best, 
and  the  tip  of  it  is  deemed  the  most  delicate  morsel  of  the  whole.  Par- 
tridges are  cleaned  and  dressed  in  the  same  manner  aii'a  pheasant,  but  the 
custom  of  tucking  the  ^gs  into  each  other  should  be  avoided,  as  it  makes 
t  *oublesome  carving. 


.,.,-.>.v-;-5i'      'V-^/. 


breaet  of  ths  bird  and  cot  deep 
ff  the  leg  ID  the  line  from  E  and 
I  saioe.  In  taking  off  the  wings, 
;  if  yon  do  you  will  hit  upon  the 
parated.  Paas  the  knife  through 
urard  the  neck,  which  will  detach 
breast,  wings,  and  merry-thought 
although'the  legs  are  considered 


nsert  the  knife  at  B,  and  cat  both 
be  divided  into  two  pieces,  then 
ut  in  halves,  either  acfoss  or  down 
rts  ;  if  young  and  small  they  may 
hould  be  cooked  as  soon  as  positi- 
16  their  flavor.  On  the  contrary 
cool  place  before  they  are  dressed. . 
luoh  as  squabs,  woodcock,  quailii, 
nail  birds  are  either servedwhole 


[ful  of  flsh,  being  known  by  their 
'  auvciy  wiiiusiivsa.  ±o  csrve  a  oaaea  mackerel,  first  remove  the  head  and 
tail  by  cutting  downward,  then  split  them  down  the  back,  so  as  to  serve  each 
irt  of  each  side  piece.  The  roe  should  he  .divided  in  amall  pieces 
with  each  piece  of  fish.  Other  whole  fish  may  b«  oarved  in  the 
ST.  The  fish  is  laid  upon  a  litUo  sauoa,  on  al  hot  cliih,  and  gari 
I  parsley. 


^    • 


CARVING. 

f 

Boiled  Salmon. 

This  fish  is  seldom  sent  to  the  table  whole,  being  too  large  for  any  ordi« 
nary  sized  family ;  the  middle  cub  is  considered  the  choicest  to  boil.  To 
carve  it,  first  run  the  knife  down  and  along  the  upper  side  of  the  fish  from 
A  to  B,  then  again  on  the  lower  side  from  C  to  D.  Serve  the  thick  part, 
cutting  it  lengthwise  in  slices  in  the  direction  of  the  line  from  A  to  B,  and 
the  thin  part  breadthwise,  or  in  the  direction  from  E  to  F.  A  slice  of  the 
thick  with  one  of  the  thin,  where  lies  the  fat,  should  be  served  to  each  guest. 
Care  should  be  taken  when  carving  not  to  break  the  flakes  of  the  flth,  as 
that  impairs  its  appearance.  The  flesh  of  the  salipon  is  rich  and  delicious  in 
flavor.    Salmon  is  in  season  from  the  first  of  February  to  the  end  of  August.' 


/ 


.\ 


SOUPS. 


poiot  !n  making  nutritious  and  palatable  soups  is  ^e 
ii.  Fresh  lean  uncooked  meat  with  the  cracked 
e  for  soups. 

t  granite  iron  kettle  is  best  as  the  meat  juices  are 
netallic  kettle  and  give  the  soup  a  bitter  taste, 
le  uncovered  more  frequently  than  is  necessary  for 
IT  should  be  used  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  prevent 

an  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat  and  a  tca- 
uld  not  be  added,  till  the  soup  is  done  as  it  liaidens 

he  albumen  on  the  surface  of  the  m«at  immediately 
he  gelatine  and  fat  from  dissolvingand  being  drawn 

ways  be  put  in  the  required  amount  of  cold  water 
>wly  for  several  horn's  in  order  that  the  juices  of  tlie 
drawn  out. 
^uii-e  nearly  double  the   seasoning  used  for  tliin 

is  that  which  is  made  up  of  the  smallest  quantities 
18,  and  care  should  be  taken  that  no  one  seasoning 

jp  that  requires  catsup  let  it  be  added  immediately 

rom  the  fire. 

.  yellow  with  grated  carrotH ;  red  with  tomato  juice ; 

powdered  spinach,  parsley,  or  the  green  leaves  of 
carefully  scorched  flour  kept  ready  for  the  purpose. 

excellent  addition  to  some  soups,  one  for  each  per 
ched  in  water  or  dropped  into  the  bolliiig  soup,  or 
lates  and  added  ju&t  before  ponring  into  the  tureeu 


SOUPS.  ,21 

Stock  should  never  be  left  in  the  kettle  in  which  it  was  cooked,  but 
turned  into  an  earthen  dish  or  shallow  pan*  Let  stand  uncovered  to  cool 
when  all  fat  should  be  removed. 

Soup  Stock. 

Cut  five  pounds  of  clear  beef  from  the  lower  part  of  the  round.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil  slowly  in  five  quarts  of  cold  water;  skim  carefully  and  set 
where  it  will  keep  just  at  the  boiling  point  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  Strain 
and  set  away  to  cool.  In  the  morning  skim  off  all  the  fat  and  turn  the  soup 
into  the  kettle.  Then  add  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery,  two  leaves  of 
sage,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  bay  leaves  and  six  whole  cloves.  Boil  gen- 
tly from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  After  straining 
through  a  iitie  sieve,  this  is  ready  for  serving  as  a  clear  soup,  or  for  the 
foundation  of  all  kinds  of  clear  soups. 

*  • 

Croutons. 

Have  the  depth  of  an  inch  of  boiling  fat  in  a  frying  pan.  Drop  into  it 
enough  slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  up  into  half-inch  squares,  to  cover  the  sur- 
face of  the  fat.  When  browned,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  drain ;  add  to 
the  hot  soup  and  serve. 

Another  method  is : 

Take  very  thin  slices  of  bread,  well  buttered ;  cut  them  up  into  squares 
three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  place  them  buttered  side  up,  in  a  baking  pan* 
and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Noodles. 

Beat  one  egg,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff 
dough ;  roll  out  thin,  like  pie  crust,  dredge  with  flour  to  keep  from  sticking. 
Let  it  remain  on  the  bread  board  to  dry  for  an  hour  o^  more ;  then  roll  it  up 
ill  a  tight  scroll  like  a  sheet  of  music.  Begin  at  the  end  and  slice  it  into 
strips  as  thin  as  straws.  After  all  are  cut,  mix  them  lightly  together  aiUl  to 
prevent  them  sticking,  keep  them  floured  a  little  until  you  are  ready  to  drop 
them  into  your  soup.    Do  not  boil  too  long  or  they  will  go  to  pieces. 

Egg  Dumplings. 

Add  two  well  beaten  eggs  to  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  as  much  wheat 
flour  as  will  make  a  smooth  thick  batter.  Drep  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  into 
boiling  soup. 


nt  Into  cold  water ;  mash  yolks  with  yolb  of  ona  raw 
ful  of  flour,  pepper,  salt  and  parsley ;  make  into  balls 

Force  Mba.t  Balls. 
'  fine  bread  crumbs  and  the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled 
:  cooked  yeal  cut  fine ;  rub  smooth  with  a  tablespoon- 
1th  salt  and  pepper,  and  bind  together  with  a  half  tea- 
ffo  beaten  e^a.  Make  it  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nut- 
B  soup  about  twenty  minutea  before  taking  it  up. 

CONBOMU& 
lan  beef,  two  pounds  of  veal,  one  onion,  one  bay  leaf, 
f  parsley,  small-sized  carrot,  two  quarts  of  cold  water, 
utter.    The  under  part  of  the  round  of  beef  and  the 
he  best  for  this  soup.    Cut  all  the  meat  into  pieces 
Put  the  butter  in  the  soup  kettle  and  let  it  brown  ; 
stir  over  the  fire  about  five  minutes,  or  until  the  meat 
)W  cover  the  kettle  and  let  simmer  for  thirty  minutes.' 
.nd  let  simmer  for  four  hours.    Now  add  the  vege- 
tables ana  bay  leai  and  simmer  one  hour  longer,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and 
put  ih.  a  oold  place  to  cool.    When  cold,  remove  the  fat  and  it  is  ready  to 
use. 

Bouillon. 

three  pounds  of  -raw  meat  chopped  fine,  add  three  quarts  of  cold 
Let  it  barely  warm  for  the  first  hour,  then  increase  the  heat,  and 
sntly  simmer  for  six  hours,  stirring  it  occasionally.  Turn  it  into  an 
vessel,  salt  to  taste  and  cover  till  cool.  Skim  off  all  the  fat,  squeeze 
the  meat  hard  as  you  remove  it  from  the  liquid ;  return  the  liquid  to  the  fire 
and  boil  rapidly  for  a  few  moments.    Strain,  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Clear  Vegbtablb  Soup. 
Two  quarts  of  stock,  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  one  small  carrot,  one 
turnip,  one  sweat  potato,  one  white  potato,  one  ear  of  com,  one  cupful  of 
peas,  one  capful  of  beans,  one  tomato,  one  tablespoon  fuV  of  rice  or  barley. 
Put  the  water  into  a  soup  kettle,  cut  the  vegetables  into  pieces  of  uniform 
size,  otherwise  the  smaller  ones  will  dissolve  and  impair  the  transparency  of 
the  soap.    Pat  the  carrot  and  turnip  on  to  boil ;  after  they  have  boiled  one 


hour,  add  all  the  other  vegetables  and  rice,  and  boil  until  tender.    Kott  add 
the  stock,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Let  it  boil  and  servA* 

Spbikg  Vegetable  Sodp. 
One  onion,  half-pint  green  peas,  two  shredded  lettoces,  a  email  bunch 
of  parsley,  two  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  water, 
one  and  a  half  quarts  of  soup  stock.  Put  in  a  stew-pau  the  onion,  lettuce, 
parsley,  and  butter,  with  one  pint  of  water,  and  let  tbem  simmer  till  tender. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  done  strain  off  the  vegetables,  put  twa< 
thirds  of  the  liquor  with  the  stock.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the 
other  third,  toss  it  over  the  fire,  and  at  the  moment  of  serving  add  this  with 
the  vegetables  to  the  strained-ofiF  soup. 

Clah  Soup.  No.  1. 
Wash  clams,  and  place  in  just  sufficient  water  for  the  soup ;  let  boil, 
and  sooii  as  tlioy  clear  from  the  shell,  take  out  and  place  in  a  jar  for  pick* 
ling;  throw  into  the  broth  a  pint  each,  of  sweet  milk  and  rolled  cracker ; 
add  a  little  salt,  boil  five  minutes,  and  just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add 
one  ounce  of  butter,  beaten  with  two  eggs.  SeiTe,  and  let  each  person  sea* 
son  to  taste. 

Cz^u  Soup.  No.  2. 
Put  your  clams  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to  make  tbem  open  easily  { 
take  them  from  the  shells  and  carefully  save  the  liquor.  Mix  three  quarts 
of  water  with  the  liquor  of  a  quart  of  opened  clams,  and  put  it  into  a  large 
pot  with  a  knuckle  of  veal,  the  bone  of  which  should  be  chopped  in  four 
places.  When  it  has  simmered  four  hours,  put  in  a  large  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonfnl  of  mace  and  a  tablespoouful  of  whole 
pepiier,  but  no  salt,  as  that  of  the  liquor  will  be  sufficient.  Stew  slowly  an 
hour  longer,  then  strain  it.  When  you  have  returned  the  liquor  to  the  pot, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  divided  in  four,  and  each  bit  rolled  in 
flour.  Then  put  In  the  clams  (having  cut  tbem  in  pieces),  and  let  them  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Send  to  table  with  toasted  bread  cut  in  dice.  This  soup 
will  be  greatly  improved  by  the  addition  of  small  force  meat  bolls.  Oystai 
soup  may  also  be  made  In  this  manner. 

CoBH  Soup. 
With  a  fork,  oat  the  grains  from  nine  ears  of  corn.    Throw  the  cobi 
ioto  a  kettle,  cover  with  two  quarts  of  water,  boil  ten  minutes  and  strain. 
Add  the  grains  to  the  water  and  return  to  the  fire.    Then  add  a  pint  of  ntw 


spoonful  of  good  batter  rubbed  up  with  two 
n  and  serve. 

Caebot  Sodp. 

dozen  large  carrots,  peel  off  the  red  outsiile 
hould  be  used  for  this  soup),  put  it  in  a  galloo 
elery  find  an  onion  cut  into  tliin  pieces ;  take 

I  have  any  cold  roast  beef  bones,  or  liquor  in 
een  boiled,  you  may  make  very  good  broth  for 
put  the  broth  to  the  roots  cover  the  etewpan 
'or  two  hours  and  a  half,  when  the  carrots  will 
3ut  in  a  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs).  Boil  for 
through  a  hair  sieve  with  a  wooden  epooii  and 
nake  it  the  proper  thickness;  this  is  almost  as 
ito  a  clean  stewpan,  make  it  hot,  season  with  a 
,  plate  aa  a  side  dish,  with  a  little  toasted  bread 

It  Soup  (Excellent.) 

into  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  with  a  small 

II  tablespoonful  of  uncooked  rice.  Let  it  sim- 
juor  should  be  reduced  to  half;  remove  from 

the  fire.  Into  the  tureen  put  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  stir  well  into  it  a 
teacupful  of  cream,  or,  in  hot  weather,  new  milk;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  hickory-nut;  on  this  strain  the  soup,  boiling  hot,  stirring  all  the 
time.    Just  at  the  last,  beat  it  well  for  a  minute. 

Spaghetti  Soup. 
eak  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  spaghetti  into  pieces  an  Inch  long,  and 
twenty  minutes  in  clear  water.     Melt  one  quart  of  stock,  bring  it  to  " 
point,  add  the  spaghetti,  and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes  ;  and  serve* 
red  a  pint  of  hot  milk  and  a  te&spoonful  of  Parmesan  cheese,  may 
ed. 

TDBTIA  SotTP  FBOU  BBANS- 
<ak  one  quart  of  black  beans  over  night.  Next  morning  boil  them  in 
four  quarts  of  water.  Then  dip  the  beans  out  of  the  pot  aud  press  tliem 
through  a  colander.  Return  them  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled. 
Put  some  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  and  sprig  of  parsley  in  a  thin  bag  and  boil 
ten  minutes  in  the  mixture.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  four  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  eggs  quartered,  a  few  force  meat  halls,  and  salt  and  pepper;  serve. 


soupa  2> 

This  approaches  so  near  in  flavor  to  the  real  turtle  soup  that  few  are  able  to 
distinguish  the  difTerence. 

Cream  of  Cblebt. 

Three  roots  of  celery,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  stocky  one  small 
onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Cut 
the  celery  into  small  pieces,  cover  with  stock .  and  boil  thirty  minutes, 
then  press  it  through  a  colander.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  then  add  the 
water  and  celery  that  was  pressed  through  the  colander,  also  the  o&k>n< 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  soup.  Saaion 
and  stir  until  it  thickens. 

/    Philadelphia  Peppbb  Pot.  '      ' 

* 

Wash  one  pound  of  plain  tripe  and  one  pound  of  honeycomb  tripe  In 
cold  water.  Put  it  in  a  kettle,  cover  it  with  cold  water  and  boil  eight 
hours ;  this  should  be  cooked  the  day  before  you  want  the  soup.  Wipe  one 
knuckle  of  veal  with  a  damp  towel,  put  it  in  a  soup  kettle,  cover  with  three 
quarts  of  water,  place  it  on  the  fire,  and  bring  slowly  to  a  simmer,  carefully 
skimming  off  the  scum.  Simmer  gently  for  three  hours,  then  strain  and  re* 
turn  soup  to  the  kettle.  Add  a  bunch  of  pot-herbs,  sprig  of  parsley,  one 
bay  leaf,  and  two  potatoes  cut  into  dice  to  the  soup.  Cut  the  tripe  into 
pieces  one  inch  square,  and  the  meat  from  the  knuckle  into  small  pieces; 
add  these  also  to  the  soup ;  place  it  on  the  fire  and  when  at  boiling  point 
season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  and  stir 
into  the  boiling  soup,  and  then  small  dumplings  made  as  follows:  Chop 
one-quarter-pound  of  suet  fine,  measure  it,  and  take  double  the  quantity 
of  flour,  one  quarter  of  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  well  together,  moisten  with 
ice  water  (about  a  quarter  of  a  cup).  Form  into  dumplings  about  the  size 
of  a  marble,  throw  into  the  soup,  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve.   ' 

Ox-tail  Soup. 

Cut  two  ox-tails  into  small  pieces,  wash  them,  and  put  them  in  a  stew* 
pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Stir  until  they  turn  brown,  then 
skim  them  out  and  put  them  into  a  stew  kettle  with  two  small  onions,  font 
cloves,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  bay  leaf,  and  two  quarts  of  cold  water  ot 
stock.  Skim  well,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  three  hours  or  until  the  tails 
are  tender.    Strain  the  soup,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Portable  Soup. 

Put  on,  in  four  gallons  of  water,  ten  pounds  of  a  shin  of  beef,  free  from 
fat  and  skin,  six  pounds  of  a  knuckle  of  veal^  and  two  fowls  s  break  the 


SOOTS. 

»  small  pieces ;  Beaaon  with  one  ounce  of  wliol* 
f  Jamacia  pepper,  and  the  same  of  mace ;  cover 
t  it  simmer  twelve  or  fourteen  hours,  and  tlien 
'  take  off  the  fat  and  elear  the  jelly  from  any 
it  gently  without  covering  the  sauce-pan,  and 
ck  and  ropy  when  it  is  done  enough.  Pour  it 
in  a  oool  oven.  When  it  will  take  the  impres- 
equal  squares.  Stand  it  in  a  aou^rh  window  or 
lak  it  at  the  scores.  Wrap  it  in  paper,  and  put 
bonld  always  he  a  large  supply  of  this  soup,  as 
1  ever  he  at  a  loss  for  dressed  dishes  and  soups. 

rBEEN  Pea  Sodp. 

Teen  peas  over  night,  .  Boil  till  very  soft,  mash 
re  the  meal  put  on  a  quai-t  of  milk  to  boil,  put 
ar,  pepper  and  salt.     Croutons  may  be  added. 

r  OP  Asparagus  Soup. 

,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of 

tter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Boil  the  aspara- 

an  hour.     Take  it  from  the  water  and  cut  ofl 

to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler.     Press  the  asparagus 

d  them  to  the  milk.     Rub  the  butter  and  flour 

X)  the  boiling  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it 

thickens.    Now  add  the  asparagus  tops,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve.    Canned 

asparagus  may  be  used  when  you  cannot  get  the  fresh.    One  quart  can  wilt 

be  sufBoient.    This  soup  may  he  varied  by  using  one  pint  of  veal  or  white 

stock,  and  one  pint  of  milk  instead  of  the  one  quart  of  milk. 

Cbeau  or  Potato  "Soup. 

Six  good  sized  potatoes  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Rub  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon ful  of  flour  together  and  stir  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens.  Now  pour  thin  over  the  potatoes, 
stir  until  emooth  and  serve  immediately.  This  soup  cannot  stand  or  be 
warmed  over. 

Tomato  Soup  without  Meat. 
One  can  tomatoes,  one  pint  hot  water,  salt,  pepper  and  a  lump  of  cut 
sugar,  four  cleves,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onions,  one  tablespooBful  of  chopped  parsley.    Fry  the  parsley  and  onion  a 


SOUPS.  '27 

few  minutes  in  tho  butter  before  adding  tliem.    Strain  all  through  a  colander 
before  sending  to  table.  '       ^ 

Tomato  Soup  with  Milk. 

One  quart  can^  or  about  the  same  quantity  of  ripe  tomatoes,  put  in  a 
soup  pot  with  a  pint  of  water.  Let  it  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  strain,  re* 
turn  to  the  lire,  and  se^ison  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  butter,  and  a  teaspoon* 
ful  of  sugar  ;  add  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  let  it  boil  about  twenty  minutes 
longer.    Stir  in  a  pinch  of  soda  just  before  serving.     Excellent. '  - 

Chicken  Cream  Soup.  *. 

An  old  chicken  for  soup  is  much  the  best.  Cut  it  up  into  quarters,  put  ^ 
it  into  a  soup  kettle  with  an  onion  ;  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring 
slowly  to  a  gentle  boil,  and  keep  this  up  until  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bones ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  rice.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bunch 
of  chopped  parsley.  Cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender,  then  the  meat 
should  be  taken  out  and  two  cups  of  rich  milk  added.  The  chicken  could 
be  fried  in  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  gravy  made,  reserving  some  of  the 
white  part  of  the  meat,  chopping  it  and  adding  it  to  the  soup. 

Plain  Economical  Soup.    ' 

a 

Take  a  cold  roast  beef  bone,  pieces  of  beef-steak,  the  rack  of  a  cold 
fowl,  put  into  a  pot  with  three  quarts  of  water,  two  carrots,  three  turnips, 
one  onion,  six  cloves,  and  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  four  hours ;  then  strain 
it  through  a  colander,  mashing  the  vegetables  so  that  they  will  alfpass 
through.  Skim  off  the  fat  and  return  to  the  pot.  Thicken  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  serve. 

Green  Turtlb  Soup. 

» 

One  turtle,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  ten  cloves,  parsley,  two 
bay  leaves,  juice  of  one  lemon,  five  quarts  of  water.  After  removing  the 
entrails,  cut  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle  meat  and  bones.  Add  four 
quarts  of  water,  and  stew  four  hours  with  the  herbs,  parsley,  cloves,  bay 
leaves,  onions,  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  very  slowly,  but  do  not  let  it  cease 
boiling  during  this  time.  Now  strain  the  soup,  and  ad^  the  finer  parts  of 
the  turtle  and  the  green  fat,  which  has  been  simmered  one  hour  in  two  . 
quarts  of  water.  Thicken  with  brown  flour ;  return  to  the  soup-pot,  and 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour  longer.  If  there  are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them 
in  a  separate  vessel  for  four  hours,  and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking 
up.    If  not,  put  in.forcemeat  balls ;  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  |  beat  up 


cs  add  the  finer  meat  before  straining 
on  Btrain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the  green 
riiis  makes  a  handsomer  soup  than  if  the 
now  be  purchased  preserved  in  air>tight 

ove. — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  tnrtle-meat 
e,  with  the  yolk  of  two  hard-boiled  egga 
tson  with  cayenne,  mace,  and  half  a  tea- 
ch of  salt.  Bind  all  with  a  well-beaten 
in  egg,  then  powdered  cracker ;  fry  in 
1  it  is  served. 

IB  Sonp. 

I  pieces  and  boil  in  three  qnarts  of  milk. 

powdered  mace.     Thicken  with  bwtler 

mixed  in  flour.     Cramble  into  the  soup  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  egga 

just  before  taking  from  the  fire.     Pour  into  a  tureeu  and  strew  on  the  tun 

the  heart  of  a  fresh  lettuce  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Fbenoh  Soup. 
Clean  nicely  a  sheep's  head  and  put  it  in  four  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
which  reduce  to  two  quarts;  add  one  small  cup  of  pearl  barley,  six  Inrge 
■  onions  cut  up  fine,  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  tuniip,  a  few  cloves,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  catsup  of  any  kind.  Cook  one  hour 
longer  after  adding  all  ingredients.  Strain  all  off,  out  the  hetd  into  the 
soup  and  serve  very  hot. 

Otbtee  Soup. 

'  Fifty  oysters,  one  pint  of  cold  water,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Drain  the  oysters  in  a  colander,  pour 
over  them  the  water  and  allow  it  to  drain  into  the  liquor.  liCt  it  boil  and  skini 
it  before  adding  the  milk.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  tiieni 
to  the  soup  when  it  boils.  Stir  until  it  boils  again  when  you  add  the  oysters. 
Season  to  taste  and  serv«  at  once.  The  oysters  should  not  boil  as  it  makes 
them  tough  and  destroys  their  flavor.  But  be  sure  that  the  oysters  are  heated 
through  as  few  things  are  more  objectionable  than  a  cold  oyster  in  a  hot  soup. 

Cbbah  of  Salsify  Sodp. 
Scrape  one  dozen  roots  of  salsify  and  throw  immediately  into  cold 
■r  to  prevent  them  &om  turning  dark.    Cut  into  thin  slices,  and  pat 


SOUPS.  S9 

into  ono  quart  of  cold  water.     Simmer  quietly  for  a  hall  1»^n,  Af^ti  v^d  a' 
pint  and  a  half  of  milk  thickened  with  two  tablespoon ttik/s  of  flour  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  two  of  butter.    Salt  and  pepper  to  tuale. 

fiBBT  Soup. 

Boil  five  beets.  Let  get  cold  and  grate  them.  Add  one  pint  of  stock 
and  one  pint  of  heated  milk.  Thicken  with  a  tabiedpoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Curry  Soup.  ' 

Season  two  quarts  of  strong  veal  broth  wifji  two  smalt  onions,  a  bunch 
of  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  salt  and  pep- 
per. A  little  before  serving  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  teacupful  of  boil- 
ing cream,  and  a  teacupful  of  boiled  rice.  Always  boil  cream  before  put- 
ting it  in  soup  or  gravy. 

GiBLET  Soup. 

Take  the  giblets  from  two  or  three  chickens,  and  if  thisre  are  remains 
of  roast  chickens,  use  these  ;  one  onion,  two  slices  of  carrot,  one  of  turnip, 
two  stalks  of  celery,  two  quarts  of  water,  one  of  stock,  two  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  salt,  and  pepper.  Put  the  giblets  on  to 
boil  in  the  two  quarts  of  water  and  boil  gently  until  reduced  to  one  quart 
(it  will  take  about  two  hours) ;  then  take  out  the  giblets.  Cut  all  the  hard, 
tough  parts  from  the  gizzards,  and  put  hearts,  livers,  and  gizzards  together 
and  chop  rather  coarse;  return  them  to  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  and  add  the  quart  of  stock.  Have  the  vegetables  cut  fine,  and  fry 
them  in  the  butter  until  they  are  very  tender  (about  fifteen  minutes),  but 
be  careful  they  do  not  burn ;  then  add  the  dry  flour  to  them  and  stir  until 
the  flour  browns ;  turn  this  mixture  into  the  soup,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  cook  gently  one-half  hour  and  serve  with  toasted  bread.  If  the 
chicken  bones  are  used,  put  them  on  to  boil  in  three  quarts  of  water,  an<i  > 
boil  the  giblets  with  them.  When  you  take  out  the  giblets,  strain  the  stock 
through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  pot ;  then  proceed  as  before* 

Southern  Gumbo  Soup. 

Out  up  one  chicken,  and  fry  it  to  a  light  brown,  also  two  slices  of 
baoon ;  pour  on  them  three  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  add  one  onion  and 
some  sweet  herbs  tied  in  a  bag;  simmer  them  gently  three  hours  und  a  half: 
strain  off  the  Uquor«  take  off  the  fat,  and  then  out  the  ham  sluA  chicken 


the  liquor ;  add  half  of  a  teacupful  of  rice, 
before  serving  add  a  dozea  chopped  oysters 

i*OT  AV  Feu. 

with  plenty  of  meat  on  it,  and  place  it  in  a 
covering  the  beef  with  three  or  four  quarts 
nd  allow  to  simmer  slowly  five  hours.  The 
re  the  cake  of  grease  from  the  top,  and  add 
}Ie  cloves,  tomatoes,  or  any  other  vegetables 
nay  be  added,  or  vermicelli  for  a  change, 
tie  brown  sugar  and  stir  through  it.  This 
solor  to  the  soup. 

ALMON  SotlP. 

J, n,  or  one  can  of  salmon,  one  pint  of  milk 

-  one  pint  of  veal  stock,  one  tahlespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Wash  the  salmon,  put  it  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  it  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes;  take 
from  the  water,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  and  mash  the  flesh  in  a  colander. 
Put  the  milk  and  stock  on  to  boil.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add 
them  to  the  stock  and  milk  when  boiling,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thiokens.    Now.  add  the  salmon,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve. 

Onion  Soup. 
One  lai^  or  three  small  onions,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
quarts  of  stock,  salt  and  pepper.  Peel  and  chop  the  onion  into  dice.  Put 
the  butter  in  a  frying-pan ;  when  hot,  add  the  onions  and  stir  until  a  nice 
brown. '  Put  the  stock  on  to  boil;  .when  it  boils,  skim  the  onions  out  of  the 
butter  attd  add  them  to  the  stock,  let  them  ummer  for  thirty  minutes,  add 
salt  and  pepper,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


T 


V 

t  ■    ." 


EKH. 


\     >K 


Select  fish  whiob  have  the  eyes  clear,  the  gills  red,  the  scales  bright  . 
and  the  flesh  firm.  '    /    ^ 

They  should  be  scaled  and  cleaned  as  soon. as  they  come  from  market; 
wash  quickly,  t^hen  sprinkle  salt  on  the  inside  and  put  them  In  a  coZc?  place 
until  wanted.  ,  .       ;       '  •  .    :    '. 

Fish  should  always  be  well  cooked,  being  both  unpalatable  and  un- 
wholesome when  underdone.    The  method  of  cooking  which  retains  most  • 
nourishment  is  broiling,  baking  is  the  next,  and  boiling  poorest  of  all. 

Codfish  A  LA  Mode. 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  codfisbt  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  two  cups  of  milk  or  cream,  two  well  beaten  ^ggs,  and  peppier  aiid ' 
salt.    Bake  twenty-five  minutes;  serve  in  the  same  dish,  placed'^ pn  a  small 
platter,  covered  with  a  napkin.  /    *  \ 

Scalloped  Fish. 

Pick  any  cold  fresh  fish  into  small  pieces,  removing  all  the  bones^ 
Take  one  pint  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  sprig  of  parsley  ^ 
minced  fine,  and  a  small  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard.. ,  Then  stir  in ;: 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.    Grease  a  baking-dish  with  butter,  put: first. a 
layer  of  the  minced  fish,  then  a  layer  of  the  dressing,  until  the  idish^s  fulL  , .' 
Spread  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  the  top  and  bake  until  nicely  browned*  v  . 


Salmon  Croquettes.  ^ 

I  .''•••■   ■'''-"-■'  -y\ 

One  can  of  salmon,  one  cup  of  milk, -two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  fiour,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  crumbs,*  pepper  and  salt 
Chop  the  salmon  fine,  let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  flour  andf 
butter,  salmon,  and  seasoning.    Stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg  alter  it  boils  V 
one  minute,  and  remove  from  the  fire^     Whei;  cold  make  into  croquettes, 
aip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  and  try,   ,  -^    •      ' 


SOBAUBLBD  CODFISB. 
9  beaten  in  one  cup  of  milk  and  half  a  cap  of  picked  cod- 
red   pan.    Stir  brisklj  and  cook  to  the  consiBtencj  of 

Baked  Shad. 
;ing  of  one  cup  ot  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespobnful 
me  tableepoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
he  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Stuff  the  body  of  the  fish  and 
ft  yarn.  Pour  over  it  some  water  and  butter  and  bake  as 
I.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound  of  fish,  basting 
Garuish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  water  cresses. 

Bboilbd  Shad.  No.  1. 
nd  dry  the  shad.  Season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Lay 
ot  well  greated  gridiron  the  flesh  side  down.  Cover  with 
broil  it  for  about  twenty  minutes  or  more  acoording  to 
Litter  it  well  and  serve  on  hot  platter.  Covering  it  wliile 
btoiling  {^ves  a  more  delicious  flavor, 

Bboilbd  Shad.    Ko.  2. 

Split  the  shad  down  the  back.  Wash  it  and  dry  Immediately.  Lay 
thick  piece  of  brown  paper,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  on  the  rack  in  the 
; .  have  a  pan  with  a  little  water  underneath  to  keep  the  fish  from  get- 
too  dry.  TA  tell  when  done,  pierce  it  with  a  fork.  If  the  flesh  be  flaky 
done.    Spread  with  butter. 

Shad  Rob. 

.'  Drop  into  boiling  t  water,  cook  gently  for  twenty  minutea  and  drain. 

Lay  the  roe  npon  a  buttered  tin  plate.    Dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and 

spread  butter  over  it ;  then  dredge  quickly  with  flour  and  cook  in  oven  for 

half  an  hour,  basting  frequently  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  flour  and  water. 

Halbut  Steak  a  la  Flamandb. 
Wipe  dry  a  Bte&.k  an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Butter  a  roasting  pan, 
sprinkle  it  with  chopped  onion,  pepper,  and  salt,  put  the  fish  on  top  of  this, 
*  brush  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
bake  in  a  modenite  oven  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  Bechamel  sauce  and 
gamiab  with  'jaraley  and  sltc«8  of  lemon. 


FISH.  33 

Fried  Halibut. 

Wash  and  dry  nice  firm  slices  from  this  delicate  looking  fish  and  remove 
the  skin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  aftei 
having  salted  and  peppered  the  fish,  and  put  them  in  a  frying  pan  half  full 
of  hot  boiling  lard,  to  wiiich  a  little  butter  has  been  added  to  make  the  fish 
brown  nicely ;  tui*n  and, brown  both  sides. 

Fried  Eels. 

Cut  the  eels  in  pieces  two  incl^s  long.  Wash  and  wipe  them  dry  { 
roll  them  in  flour  or  cracker  dust  and  fry  as  other  fish.  Brown  them  all 
over  and  be  sure  they  are  thoroughly  done.  Eels  are  sometimes  dipped  in 
batter  and  fried  or  into  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 

Baked  Turbot. 

Boil  five  or  six  pounds  of  haddock  or  cod.  Take  out  the  bones  and 
pick  fish  very  fine.  Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  one-quarter  of  an  onion,  and  a« 
piece  of  parsley  together.  Stir  in  one-half  cup  of  flour,  mixed  with  one 
cup  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  (a  little  more  flour  may  be  needed). 
Season  with  one-half  tcasgoonful  white  pepper,  same  quantity  tliyme,  one- 
half  cupful  butter,  and  plenty  of  salt.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  first  a 
layer  of  sauce,  then  one  of  fish  and  so  on,  finishing  with  sauce  on  top; 
sprinkle  over  it  cracker-crumbs  and  a  light  grating  of  cheese.  Bake  for  an. 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Fried  Frogs. 

Skin  the  hind  legs  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 
Then  put  them  in  cold  water  until  cold.  Wipe  dry  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  (lour  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce  and  garnish  the  dish  with  parsley. 

Pickled  Herring. 

Scale  and  clean  well  fifty  fresh  herring — cut  heads  and  tails  ofiF.  Plaoo 
in  four  small  crocks,  in  layers,  with  the  backs  up.  Sprinkle  each  layer  witH 
salt  and  i)epper  and  two  cloves  to  a  herring.  When  full,  place  a  plate  ovel 
the  top  and  fill  with  good  cider  vinegar.  l*ut  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook 
four  hours.  Set  away  in  cool  dark  place.  These  will  be  ready  for  use  in  8 
w^ek  and  will  keep  several  months. 

Salmon  with  Caper  Sauob. 

Lay  two  slices  of  salmon  in  a  baking  dish,  place  pieces  of  butter  over 
to,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parslej%  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  sah 
8  , 


«.     Pat  in  the  oven  and  baste  it  freqaently ;  when  done, 

in  for  a  minute  or  two ;  lay  it  in  a  dish,  ponr  caper  sauce 

Salmon  dressed  in  this  way,  with  tomato  saoee,  is  very 


Matomdaisb  Fioh. 
or  two  of  cold  boiled  fish  (halibut,  cod  or  rock)  cat  into 
ad  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Beat  the  mixture 
ist  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish,  stir  in  lightly  the 
raw  egg.  Serve  the  fish  in  a  glass  dish,  with  half  the 
with  it.  Spread  the  remainder  over  the  top,  and  lay  let- 
.the  core  of  the  bead  of  lettuce)  around  the  edges,  to  be 

Fbibd  Sublts. 

1,  make  a  slight  opening  at  the  gills,  then  draw  them  be- 

and  finger,  beginning  at  the  tail.     This  will  press  out  all 

the  insides.    Wash  and  wipe  them.    Now  sprinkle  them  with  salt ;  dip  them 

first  in  beaten  eggs,  and  then  in  bread-crombs,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.     Gar> 

nish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 

Bboilbd  Whitb-Fish. 
Wash  and  drain  the  fish ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  lay  with  the  Inside 
down  apon  the  gridiron,  and  broil  over  fresh  bright  coals.  When  a  nice 
6rown  turn  for  a  moment  on  the  other  side,  then  take  up  and  spread  with 
butter.  This  is  a  very  nice  way  of  broiling  all  kinds  of  fish,  fresh  or  salted. 
A  little  smoke  under  the  fish  adds  to  its  flavor.  This  may  be  made  by  put- 
'  ling  two  or  three  cobs  under  the  gridiron. 


/ 


SH  KTiTiFIiSJJL 


Otstebs  Sbbyed  ov  Iosl 


(J86  a  perfectly  clear  block  of  ice  weighing  ten  to  fifteen  ponnda.  Pat 
Hie  ice  in  a  pan»  heat  a  flatiron  or  a  brick  and  melt  a  space  in  the  centre 
of  the  ice-block,  leaving  a  wall  one  and  a  half  to  two  inches  thick.  Tip  the 
block  on  one  side  and  carefully  empty  all  the  water  out  and  fill  the  cavity 
with  freshly  opened  oysters  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon.  Lay  one  or 
two  folded  napkins  on  a  large  platter  to  prevent  the  block  from  slipping, 
cover  the  dish  with  parsley  or  smilax  with  pinks  or  nasturtiums  mixed  so 
that  only  the  ice  is  visible.  This  is  not  expensive  and  does  away  with  the 
unsighty  shells  in  which  raw  oysters  are  usually  served* 

OvsTBR  Stbsvt* 

Mix  a  half  pint  of  hot  water  with  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of 
oysters.  Let  it  boil  up  once  before  putting  in  the  oysters.  Wash  the 
oysters  by  letting  cold  water  run  over  them  in  a  colander.  Add  to  the 
liquor  and  when  they  curl  or  ^^  rufBe ''  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  The  instant  it  is  melted  and  well  stirred  in  put 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  take  from  the  fire.  Serve  with  cream  or 
oyster  crackers.  If  you  prefer  thickening,  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker 
crumbs,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  up  into  the  butter. 

Broiled  Oybteks. 

Wipe  twenty-five  fat  oysters  dry  with  a  towel,  season  with  salt  andi 
pepper  on  both  sides.  Have  your  gridiron  hot,  as  soon  as  the  oysters  brown 
on  one  side  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  Throw  them  in  a  brown  sauoe^ 
made  from  one  pint  of  the  liquor,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  As  soon  as  the  liquor  boils  skim  off  the  soum. 
Brown  the  butter  well  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  flour  and  brown  carefully, 
then  add  the  liquor  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Now  throw  the  oysters  in  the 
hot  sauce  and  serve. 


USD  OTgTBBB. 

1  *  ooland«r  and  ^pe  cirj.  Season  with  salt 
.dd  a  tablespooufu]  of  boiling  water  or  the 
It'to  a  well  beaten  egg.  Dip  the  oyster  into 
lied  fine,  preuing  it  lightly  with  the  hand, 
in  enough  lard  or  oil  to  cover  them,  take  out 
1  a  soft  pieoe  of  brown  paper,  and  serve  oriip 

Scalloped  Otstbbb. 
Batter  a  baldng  dish ;  pat  a  half  inch  layer  of  bread  orumba  on  the 
bottom,  then  b  layer  of  oyatere,  dot  this  over  with  pieces  of  butter, 
■alt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  orumba  and  bo  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  the 
top  layer  to  be  orambs  dotted  with  batter.  Boat  up  an  egg  in  a  half  cup 
of  milk,  and  a  half  cup  of  the  oyster  liquor,  and  pour  over  all.  Bake  half 
an  hour,  or  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve  in  the  baking-dish  or  they  oaa  b« 
prepared  and  lerved  in  the  oyster  shells. 

Otstsr  Frittbbs. 
Make  a  batter  of  one  coffee  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  oyster  Juice,  one 
heaping  teaapoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  well-beateu  egga,  a  little  salt, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  batter  like  griddle  cakes.    Dip  the  oysters  singly 
in  this  batter  and  try  in  hot  lard. 

Otsteb  Maoabohi. 

Boil  macaroni  in  a  cloth  to  keep  it  straight.  Put  a  layer  In  a  dish 
aeaioned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  oyston;  alternate 
nntil  the  dish'  is  full.  Mix  spme  grated  bread  with  a  beaten  e^,  spread 
over  the  top  and  bake. 

Otbtbb  Pattiss. 

Make  puff  paste  in  this  way :  To  every  pound  of  flour  add  three<[aarten 
'  of  a  pound  of  batter,  the  yolk  of  one  egg;  use  ioe-oold  water;  chop  half 
th»  butter  in  the  flour,  then  stir  in  the  egg ;  work  all  into  a  doagh ;  roll  out 
thin ;  spread  on  some  of  the  butter,  fold  oloaely  (butter  side  in)  and  roll 
again  i  do  this  until  the  butter  is  all  used  up ;  keep  the  paste  in  a  cold  plaoa 
while  yon  prepare  the  oysters.  Set  the  oysters  on  the  stove  in  a  saucepan, 
with  liquid  enough  to  cover  them ;  as  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil  skim 
them;  stir  in  a  little  butter  and  pepper;  also,  if  desired,  a  little. oream. 
IJne  yoor  small  tins  with  your  paste ;  put  three  or  four  .oysters  In  eaoh, 
aiA  a  UMla  of  the  liquor,  than  eowt  with  pastai  bake  In  a  ^niek  otm 


SHELLFISH.  37 

twenty  mtnates ;  while  hot  wash  over  the  top  with  a  beaten  egg,  using  a 
awab  or  brush,  and  set  in  the  oven  a  minute  or  two  to  glaze. 

Fried  Shrimps. 

Shell  and  heat  gently  in  a  pan  with  a  little  butter.  Season  with  pep- 
per.   The  canned  shrimps  put  up  by  Dunbar  &  Co.,  and  White  are  the  best. 

DsviLBD  Crabs  (Canned).  i 

Take  the  liquor  from  the  can  and  mix  the  meat  with  an  e<]iual  quantity  of 
fine  bread-crumbs;  beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  mix 
with  it  a  half-tablespoonful  of  mustard,  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste.  Stir  the  crabs  carefully  into  it.  Fill  some  shells  or  small  patty  pans 
with  the  mixture,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  cover  with  bread-crumbs  and 
brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven,  or  they  can  be  put  into  a  frying  ba^et,  and 
plunged  in  boiling  fat  till  brown. 

To  Boil  and  Opbk  a  Lobster. 

Put  a  lobster  head  downward  in  a  kettle  of  tvarm  water  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  cover  the  kettle  and  put  over  a  very  hot  fira*  Boil  from 
half  to  three-quarters '  of  an  hour  according  to  the  size.  If  cooked  too  long 
they  get  tough,  and  tho  meat  is  hard  to  get  from  the  shell.  When  cooked, 
separate  the  tail  from  the  bod^  and  twist  off  the  claws ;  shake  out  carefully 
the  coral,  also,  the  tom-alley  (this  may  be  known  by  its  greenish  color). 
Then  draw  the  body^  from  the  shell,  remove  the  stomach  w])ich  you  will  find 
directly  under  the  head  and  throw  this  away.  After  splitting  the  body 
through  the  centre,  pick  the  meat  from  the  cells.  Cut  the  undiir  side  of  the 
tail  shell  and  take  out  the  meat  in  one  piece.  Now  split  the  meat  of  the 
tail  open  and  carefully  take  out  a  little  vein  which  runs  its  entire  length, 
and  throw  it  away.  This  vein  is  sometimes  red,  sometimes  white,  and 
sometimes  black  but  it  must  be  carefully  removed  and  thrown  away. 
Crack  the  claws  and  tuke  out  the  meat.  The  stomach,  the  T*in  and  the 
spongy  fingers  between  the  body  and  shell  are  the  only  parts  cot  eatable. 
To  serve  plain  boiled  lobster  arrange  the  meat  on  a  cold  platat  garnished 
with  the  claws,  sprigs  of  parsley  and  hard  boiled  eggs.  Each  pei^on  season 
to  suit  his  own  taste* 

LOBSTBB  CrOQUBTTBS. 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  well-boiled  lobster  fine,  add  pepper,  talt,  and 
powdered  mace.  Mix  with  one-quarter  as  much  bread-crumbs  as  meat. 
Form  into  pyramids ;  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  bread-crumbs  rolled  fiatt  aud  fry 
in  half  lard  and  half  batter.    Serve  dry  and  hot  and  garnished  witir  patsi^* 


Soft-Shbix  Claus. 
ne  if  properly  prepared.    They  are  good  only  during 
Id  be  of  medium  size,  heavy  and  perfectly  fresh.    Be> 
illy ;  vash  the  mussels  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  ten 
a  drain. 

Stbtted  Ci^ub. 
'  Take  fifty  large  sand  clams  from  their  shells,  and  put  to  them  equal 
parts  of  their  own  liquor  and  vater,  nearly  to  cover  them ;  put  them  in  a 
stawpan  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour ;  take  off  any  scum  as  it  rises, 
then  add  to  them  a  teacup  of  butter  in  which  is  worked  a  tablespoouful  of  . 
.wheat  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste;  cover  the  stewpitn  and  let  them  siranier 
for  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  serve.  Substituting  milk  for  water  makes 
them  more  delicftte  and  white.  Any  other  than  sand  clams  require  three- 
qnartors  of  an  hour  to  stew  before  putting  in  the  seasoning. 

Roast  Clams. 
Wash  them  and  put  on  a  gridiron  over  tlie  hot  coals.    When  the  shells 
open,  remove  the  upper  one,  and  serve  in  the  under  shell  at  onoe  with  a  bit 
of  butter  and  u  little  pepper  on  euab. 


POULTRY  AND  GAMR 


Thb  surest  way  to  determine  whether  poultry  ift  y^ung,  is  to  try  the 
skin  under  the  leg  or  wing ;  if  it  is  easily  broken  it  is  young ;  or,  turn  the 
wing  backward,  if  the  joints  yield  readily  it  is  tender. 

Poultry  should  be  picked  and  drawn  as  soon  as  possible,  but  should 
never  be  cooked  until  six  or  eight  hours  after  it  has  been  killed.  Plunge  it 
into  a  pot  of  scalding-hot  water ;  then  pluck  off  the  feathers,  taking  care  not 
to  tear  the  skin  ;  when  it  is  picked  clean,  roll  up  a  piece  of  white  paper,  set 
fire  to  it  and  singe  off  all  the  hairs.  The  head,  neck,  and  feet  should  be  cut 
off,  and  the  ends  of  the  legs  tied  tightly  to  the  body  with  a  string. 

Poultry  may  be  baked  so  that  its  wings  and  legs  are  soft  and  tender,  by 
being  placed  in  a  deep  roasting-pan  with  close  cover,  thereby  retaining  the 
aroma  and  essences.  These  pans  are  quite  an  innovation,  and  are  made 
with  a  close  cover  with  a  small  opening  in  the  top  for  giving  vent  to  the  ac* 
cumulation  of  steam  when  required.  Roast  meats  of  any  kind  can  also  be 
oooked  in  the  same  manner,  and  it  is  a  great  improvement  on  the  old  plan. 

• 

To  Clean  a  Chicken. 

The  fowl  should  be  thoroughly  washed  before  it  is  drawn.  First  cut 
off  the  head,  then  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  split  the  skin  on  the  back  of  the 
neck,  Uien  detach  the  skin  from  it,  and  draw  it  down  over  the  breast,  taking 
out  the  crop  without  breaking  it.  Now  cut  the  neck  off  close  to  th^  body. 
The  skin  then  covers  the  place  where  the  neck  was  cut  off.  Next  make  a 
vent  under  the  rump  and  take  out  all  the  internal  organs — being  careful  not 
to  break  the  entrails  or  gall-bag.  If  you  should  be  so  unfortunate  as  to  do 
so,  wash  very  quickly  through  two  or  three  waters  in  which  you  have  dis- 
solved a  piece  of  soda.  After  drawing  properly  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a 
damp  towel,  remove  the  oil  sack  from  the  top  of  the  rump  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  Cut  the  liver  away  from  the  gall-bag,  being  cnreful  not  to  break  it. 
Cut  the  heart  open  and  remove  the  clotted  blood.  Cut  the  outer  coat  of 
the  gizzard  and  draw  it  off,  leaving  th#»  inner  lining  containing  the  sand 
unbroken*    Wash  thoroughly,  and  they  ^^  ready  to  use*  ^ 

C89) 


TOWtSt  AKD  GAUfi. 

eese,  ducks,  pigeons,  pheasants,  and  all  birds  are  (desbed  In 
ir. 

Yankee  Stewed  Ohiokek. 
loassee  of  chickens  and  just  before  ;ou  are  ready  to  serre  it 
baking  pans  of  rich  baking  powder  or  soda  biscuits.     Split 
[i  the  hands  while  still  hot  and  place  them  on  a  large  meat 
10  hot  chicken  stew  over  all  and  eerva. 

Chicken  Potpie, 
One  year-old  chicken,  the  rule  for  plain  paste,  one  pound  of  lean  ham, 
four  medium-sized  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper.     Make  the  paste  first  and 

\  stand  it  in  a  cool  place.  Cut  the  chicken  up  as  for  a  fricassee  ;  pare  and  cut 
the  ham  and  potatoes  into  small  pieces.  Now  roll  out  half  the  paste  into  a 
thin  sheet.  Butter  the  aides  and  bottom  of  a  rounding  pot,  line  it  with  the 
sheet  of  paste,  and  trim  the  top  ;  roll  out  these  trimmings  into  a  sheet,  and 
cut  them  Into  squares.  Kow  put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pot,  then  a  layer  oC  potatoes,  then  a  sprinkling  of  ham,  salt,  pepper,  and  the 
squares  of  paste,  then  the  remainder  of  the  chicken,  and  then  the  potatoes, 
etc.  ItoU  out  the  remainder  of  the  paste,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  it 
and  lay  it  on  the  top  which  should  be  potatoes.  Pour  through  this  hoU 
three  pints  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  continually  for  one  and  a  half  hours 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  into  bits  through  the  hole  tn  the  crust 

'  fifteen  minutes  before  serving.  When  done  turn  it  out  on  a  large  dish  so 
the  bottom  crust  will  be  uppermost.  If  the  chicken  is  old  parboil  it  be- 
forehand  and  cook  but  forty-five  minutes.  Some  prefer  to  cook  potpie  in 
the  oven,  as  it  is  less  likely  to  burn. 

Chicken  and  Cbeau. 
Put  some  finely  chopped  parsley  to  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  with  salt 
and  pepper.    Fry  the  chicken  in  butter ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  then  pour  the 
prepared  cream  slowly  into  the  frying-pan,  stirring  quickly }  when  all  in, 
and  well  done,  turn  the  cream  pver  the  chicken. 

Roast  Chiokek. 
Stuff  the  chicken  with  a  dressing  made  from  the  soft  part  of  bread ,  do 
not  wet  It,  but  rub  dry  and  fine,  and  mix  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  thyme  or  sweet  mar* 
joram.  Mix  well  and  moisten  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  beaten* 
»gg, .  Rub  the  obioken  well  Inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  fill) 


^tJLtBt  Ain>  OAltk  41 

rtBW  eaoli  split  with  strong  but  not  heavy  thread,  tie  the  legs  down  firmljr 
and  press  the  wings  closely  to  the  sides,  securing  them  with  a  string  tied 
around  the  body,  and  baste ;  as  one  side  browns,  turn  over  until  it  is  nicely 
done ;  cut  the  soft  part  of  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  and  put  into  the 
gravy ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  mixed. 

Shothsrsd  Chioxjev. 

Split  a  young  chicken  down  the  back.  Take  out  the  intestines.  Wipe 
it  with  a  damp  towel.  Lay  the  chicken,  with  inside  downward,  in  a  baking* 
pan,  breaking  the  breast-bone  to  make  it  lie  flat.  Spread  the  breast  with  a 
quarter  pound  of  butter,  dredge  with  pepper.  Put  a  half  cup  of  water  and 
a  little  salt  in  the  bottom  of  the  baking-pan,  place  it  in  a  hot  oven,  cover 
with  another  pan,  let  it  bake  for  half  an  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 
Turn  the  chicken,  baste  it  well  on  the  ioside,  and  bake  for  another  half 
hour.  When  done  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  put  the  pan  in  which  the  chicken 
was.  cooked  on  the  top  of  the  fire  to  brown,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  stir  until  smooth  and  brown,' then  add  a  half  pint  of  milk  or  cream  and 
stir  until  it  boils.  Taste  to  see  if  properly  seasoned ;  if  not,  add  salt  and 
pepper.    Serve  in  a  boat. 

CuBRT  CraoKiasr, 

Cut  up  a  chicken  weighing  from  a  pound  and  a  half  to  two  pounds,  as 
for  fricassee,  wash  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  su£5cient  water  to 
cover  it ;  let  it  simmer  until  tender ;  add  a  larjg^e  teaspoonful  of  ^alt,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  chicken, 
pour  the  liquor  into  a  bowl,  and  set  it  to  one  side.  Now  cut  up  into  the 
stew-pan  two  small  onions,  and  fry  them  with  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as 
^^  egg ;  as  soon  as  the  onions  are  brown,  skim  them  out  and  put  in  the 
chicken ;  fry  for  three  or  four  minutes ;  next  sprinkle  over  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  curry  powder.  Now  pour  over  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was 
stewed,  stir,  all  well  together,  and  stew  for  five  minutes  longer,  then  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water ;  lastly,  stir  in  a 
beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice  laid  round  on  the  edge  of  a 
platter,  with  chicken  curry  in  the  centre.  Beef,  veal,  mutton,  duck,  pigeons, 
partridges,  rabbits,  or  fresh  fish  may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken,  if  pre* 
furred,  and  sent  to  the  table  with  or  without  a  dish  of  rice. 

Chicken  Drbsssd  as  Tsrbapiks. 

Boil  a  fine,  large,  tender  chicken  ;  when  done,  and  while  yet  warm*  out 
it  from  tb*^  (Hines  into  small  pieces,  as  for  chicken  salad ;  put  it  ir^c  c  stew* 


POTTLTBT  AM)  GAME. 

[wiling  w»t«r;  then  stir  together,  ontB  perfectly 
1  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  the  yolk  of  one 
lioken  half  at  a  time,  stirring  all  well  together ;  then 
epper.  After  letting  it  aimmer  about  ten  minutca, 
rinegar  and  send  to  table  hot. 

Fbicassssd  Chicken. 
to  boil,  skin  side  down,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
',  and  slices  of  an  onion  if  liked  ;  stew  gently  until 
add  a  half  pint  orenm  or  milk  to  gravy,  and  tliickan 
,   intn  Duner  ana  noup  rubbed  smoothly  together  (ndding  a  little  of  the  gravy 
to  soften  and  help  mix  them),  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  add  a  little 
obopped  parsley  and  serve,  or,  first  fry  the  chicken  brown  in  a  little  hot  lard, 
'  take  out  chicken,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  let  cook  a  minute,  stin-ing 
constantly ;  add  a  pint  of  water  (or  stock  if  at  hand),  a  little  vinegar  or  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  season  with  salt  an^  pepper;  when  it  has  boiled,  remove 
'  from  Are,  strain,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  pour  over  the  chicken  and 
serve.     Or,  put  chicken  in  saucepan  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover, 
ttew  gently  until  tender;  have  a  frying-pan  prepared  with  a  few  slices  of 
salt  pork,  drain  chicken  and  fry  with  pork  until   it  is  a  fine,  rich  brown  ; 
take  chicken  and  bits  of  pork  from  the  pan,  pour  in  the  broth,  thicken  with 
brown  floor,  raixed  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  season  with  pepper ; 
now  put  chicken  and  pork  back  into  gravy,  let  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and 
Mrv«  very  l>ot. 

'         ^  Prbssed  Chickkh.    No.  1. 

,  Boil  one  chicken  until  thoroughly  done  in  water,  so  that  when  finished 
there  will  b*  about  one  and  one  half  pints  of  liquor.  Grind  the  chicken  and 
the  whites  -of  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  mash  the  yolks  and  add.  Also  add 
one  pint  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and 
celery  seed.  When  all  mixed  put  in  the  liquor.  Press  overnight  with  a 
small  weight  over  it.  Turn  out  when  hard  and  cold.  Garnish  with  parsley 
.  and  lervA.  Nioe  Cor  picnics  or  a  tea  dish  in  summer.  Excellent. — Mri.  H. 
■  4..  CT**. 

•    ,  Pressed  Chicken.    No.  2. 

An  old  chicken  may  be  used  for  this.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Simmer  gently  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  when  about  half  done.  When  done,  take  the  meat  from 
'the  ht^es  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces  not  over  a  half-inch  square.  Put  th« 
boaas  and  akin  back  into  the  kettle,  and  boil  until  the  liquor  is  nfeuced  to 


FOULTBT  AHm  GAMB.      .  4t 

0119  and  a  half  pints,  then  strain,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  this  with  the  chicken,  pour  the  whole  into  a  square  tin  mold  and  stand 
in  a  very  cold  place  overnight.  A  light  weight  may  be  placed  on  top  ta 
press  it  together,  a  fiatiron  on  a  small  board  is  best.  When  hard  and  cold, 
turn  out  of  the  mold,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve* 

Chicken  Patties. 

Mince  up  a  cold  chicken.  Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
minced  parsley  and  onion.  Moisten  it  with  chicken  gravy  or  cream  sauce, 
fill  scalloped  shells  that  are  lined  with  pastry  with  the  mixture,  and  sprinkle 
bread-crumbs  over  the  tops.  Puc.two  or  three  tiny  pieces  of  butter  over 
each,  and  bake  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Roast  Turkey  Dbessed  with  Oysters. 

For  a  ten-pound  turkey  take  a  quart  of  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of 
oysters ;  rub  the  bread  dry  and  fine — not  the  crust-*and  work  into  it  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  thyme,  and  mix  well  with  the  hands ;  strain  the  oyster  liquor  and 
moisten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  wanned.  Drain  the  oysters,  and  fill  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  bread,  then  one  of  oysters,  alternating  until  the  turkey 
is  filled.  Sew  the  slits,  boil  the  oyster  liquor  down  to  one  pint,  skim  it,  put 
it  in  the  pan  hot,  and  baste  often.  Rub  the  turkey  with  salt  and  pepper, 
lay  it  in  the  pan  on  its  back  and  lay  bits  of  butter  all  over,  and  dust  with 
flour.  Lay  the  giblets  close  to  the  turkey  to  keep  them  soft  when  done; 
when  it  browns  turn  on  the  other  side,  so  that  it  will  be  uniformly  browned. 
Chop  the  soft  parts  of  the  gizzard  and  liver,  and  mix  with  the  gravy.  Mix 
a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  flour  with  a  half  cupful  of  cream  or  milk  to 
thicken  it.    Roast  three  hours. 

Turkey  Scalm)p. 

Chop  fine  the  fragments  of  a  cold  turkey,  place  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  turkey,  adding  any  cold  dressing 
that  may  be  left.  Slice  three  hard  boiled  eggs  and  add  a  few  slices  to  each 
layer  of  the  turkey.  Alternate  the  layers  of  meat  and  crumbs,  adding  bits 
of  butter  and  seasoning  to  each.  .Dot  bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  which 
should  be  crumbs.  Tlun  with  hot  water  or  milk  what  gravy  may  be  left, 
and  pour  over  it.  Milk  alone,  or  even  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  may  be  used.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  plate  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
A  few  minutes  before  serving,  remove  the  cover  and  let  the  scallop 
brown*  *- 


Whd  Ddoe  Roastmd. 

imaU  carrot,  or  onion  pseled,  witbln  eaob  duck.    ThU 
aasant  taste.    Stuff  and  bales  in  a  hot  ovea  from  thirty 

EOABT  GOOBS. 
1  not  be  more  than  eight  months  old,  and  the  btter'ths 
^'the  meat.  Stuff  with  the  lollowi&g  mixture  i  Three 
3s,  BIX  ounces  of  butter,  or  part  butter  and  part  salt 
il  each  of  sage,  black  pepper,  and  salt,  one  chopped 
t'voty  full,  and  stitch  openings  firmly  together  to  keep 
;.  Place  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  baste 
and  water  (some  add  vinegar)  ;  turn  often  so  that  the 
le  nicely  browned.  Roast  twenty-five  minutes  to  every 
'ten  minutes;  after  the  goosa  has  been  roasting  one 
ind  roast  the  remainder  of  the  time  at  a  moderate  heat. 
lUce  made  the  same  as  for  roast  chicken.  Apple  sauce 
■ved  with  roast  gooaa.  Goslings  may  be  roasted  in  the 
»u.o  U..UUB.,  »uun..ig  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound. 

,  GnutEAFowM. 

A  most  delicious  fricaBsee  is  made  of  a  young  guinea  fowl.  Brown  one 
'quarter  of  a  pound  of  sliced  bacon,  add  the  fowl  and  brown  on  both  sides. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  fiour,  mix  thoroughly ;  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Cover  and  simmer  gently  until 
the  fowls  are  tender.  Potato  croquettes  art  a  nice  accompaniment  to  this 
dish. 

'  Roast  FiOBONa. 

Pigeons  slionld  be  dressed  while  fresh.  Prepare,  roast,  or  broil  the 
same  as  chiokene ;  they  will  require  from  twenty  to  thirty  miuutes*  cooking. 
.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  giblets,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  and  add  a  little 
flour  and  butter.    Dish  with  young  w&tet-c 


Bboilbd  Figbonb  or  Sqitabs. 

Toung  pigeons  or  "  squabs  "  are  esteemed  a  great  delicacy.    Prepare  as 

other  fowls ;  then  split  down  the  back,  and  broil  like  ohiokens.     Season 

with  pepper  and  salt,  and  butter  liberally  in  serving  them.    They  are  in 

tfTsat  request  In  au  invalid's  room,  being  peculiarly  savory  and  nonrishingi^ 


BfioiLSD  Pabtbidges,  Pheasants,  Quail,  Gbouib,  and  Pbaibis  Fowls. 

Split  down  the  back,  lard  the  breasts,  and  broil  the  same  as  pigeons. 
With  them  serve  currant  jelly. 

Quail  ok  Toast. 

Remove  the  feathers  without  scalding.  Put  In  salt  water  for  twenty 
Ininutes ;  then  split  down  the  back  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel.  Butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron.  Turn  frequently. 
Butter  the  fowl  well  when  done  and  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast^  placing  a 
|uail,  breast  up,  on  each  slice.    Garnish  with  currant  jelly. 

Fbibd  Rabbit. 

The  rabbit  must  be  very  tender  for  this  purpose.  After  it  has  been 
sleaned  and  washed,  put  it  into  boiling  witter,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes ; 
drain  it,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  into  joints,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  then  in 
cracker  crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  them  in  butter  and 
sweet  lard  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Take  them  out,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  add  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream  ;  let  all  boil  up,  and 
turn  over  the  rabbits.  Serve  hot  with  onion  sauce.  (See  Sauces.}  Garnish 
with  sliced  lemon. 

Bboileo  Rabbit* 

Cut  down  the  back  into  halves  only,  pound  them  flat,  and  broil  the  same 
as  a  spring  chicken.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish ;  dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
butter  liberally. 

Bbunswiok  Stew. 

Three  fine  gray  squirrels,  skinned  and  cleaned ;  out  as  yon  would 
chickens  for  a  fricasseo ;  one-half  pound  lean  ham ;  one  onion,  sliced;  corn, 
out  from  twelve  ears ;  six  large  tomatoes,  pared  and  sliced,  or  one  quart  can ; 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour ;  parsley ;  enough  water  to 
cover  the  squirrels;  put  squirrels,  pork — cut  up  small-— onion,  and 
parsley  in  the  water,  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  when  this  has  simmered  ten  min* 
utes,  put  in  the  corn,  and  stew  until  the  squirrels  are  tender }  then  add  the 
tomatoes  and  book  twenty  minutes ;  stir  in  the  butter  and  fiouri  stmmei' 
ten  minutes,  and  pour  into  a  large,  deep  dish. 

Squibbbls — Fbicassbed,  Stewed,  ob  Fbibd. 

lYepare  squirrels  for  these  dishes  by  the  recipes  for  rabbits.  Serro  with 
onrraiil  jam  or  jelly. 


FOULTBT  AND  GAME. 

Dktilvd  Chioebit. 

ay  pieces  of  cold  cooked  ohiotcen.  To  everjr  pint  ol 
la'f  a  pint  of  milk,  one  ttiblespoonful  of  butter,  on* 
ped  paiMle/,  three  htrd-boiled  egga,  two  tablespoon  fuld 
VI.  wmau-biuuiuB,  uuD^uarter  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  to  melt,  then  add  the  brDad-cnimbs,  cream, 
chicken,  and  sefuoning ;  stir  orer  the  fire  until  it  boils ;  then  add  the  hard- 
boiled  <egg8  chopped  very  fine.  Fill  indiridual  dishes  with  the  mixture, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  bread-orumbs,  and  brown  it  in  a  q^uick  oven. 

Chaud  Froid  of  Chickbh. 
One  cold  roast  cliioken,  one  tableapoonfut  of  flour,  one  tablespoon-, 
ful  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Strip  the  skin  carefully  from  the  chicken,  and  cut  the  meat 
into  pieces,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and  an  inch  wide.  Now 
put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  to  melt,  add  to  it  the  flour ;  mix  until  smooth ; 
add  the  milk,  stir  continually  until  it  boils  and  thickens;  add  salt  and  pep- 
per.  Into  this  sauce  dip  each'  piece  of  chicken,  and  place  the  pieces  on  a 
dish,  one  not  touching  the  other.  Stand  away  until  very  cold.  When  cold, 
arrange  the  pieces  nicely  on  a  dish,  e>prink1e  them  with  a  little  parsley 
chopped  very  fine,  garnish  with  aspio  jelly  and  parsley,  and  serve. 

FErBD  Tdekey. 
Cut  In  neat  pieces  the  remains  of  the  turkey,  make  a  batter  of  beaten 
eggs  and  fine  bread-crumba,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  add  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsley  j  dip  the  pieces  into  this  and  fry  them  a  light  brown. 
Take  a  good  gravy,  and  flavor  with  mushroom  or  other  catsup,  and  poux 
over  tkem.    A.  very  nice  break&st  dish. 


MEAT& 


BBBP. 

Roast  Bbev. 

It  is  Terj  necessary  when  roasting  beef  to  have  the  oven  well  heated 
when  the  beef  is  first  put  in  as  this  causes  the  pores  to  close  up  quickly,  and 
prevents  the  juices  from  escaping*  Wipe  it  thoroughly  with  a  clean  wet 
toweL  Lay  it  in  a  dripping-pau,  and  baste  it  well  with  butter.  Set  it  in 
the  oven.  Baste  it  frequently  with  its  own  drippings,  which  will  make  it 
brown  and  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  when  partly  done,  as  it 
hardens  any  meat  to  salt  it  when  raw,  and  draws  out  its  juices;  then  dredge 
with  sifted  flour  which  gives  it  a  frothy  appearance.  Roast  fifteen '  minutely 
to  every  pound  if  yon  like  your  meat  rare*  If  well  done,  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  the  beef  to  a  heated  dish,  set  where  it  will  keep  hot  i  then  skim  the 
drippings  from  all  fat,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  a  little  pepper  and 
a  teacupful  of  boiling  water.  Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot  in  a  gravy  boat. 
The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin,  ribs,  and  pin-bone* 

YORKSHIBB  PTDDIKO. 

This  is  a  very  nice  accompaniment  to  a  roast  of  beef  {  one  pint  of  milk, 
fdur  eggs,  white  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoonfiil  of  salt,  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  through  two  cups  of  flour.  Mix 
very  smooth,  about  the  consistency  of  cream.  Put  in  your  roast,  so  it  will 
be  done  half  an  hour  or  forty  minutes  before  dishing  up.  Take  it  from  the 
oven,  set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot.  In  the  meantime  have  this  pudding  pre< 
pared,  grease  two  common  biscuit  tins,  pour  half  of  the  pudding  into  each, 
set  them  into  the  hot  oven,  and  keep  them  in  until  the  dinner  is  dished  up ; 
take  these  puddingy  out  at  the  last  moment  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  This 
I  consider  much  better  than  the  old  way  of  baking  the  pudding  under  the 
meat. 


Beef  a  la  Mode. 
1  of  fresh  beef,  take  the  boae  and  cat  sway  the-fiit. 
in  pounds  make  k  seasoQiDg  or  Btufflug  in  the  follow- 
:  a  pound  of  beef  suet;  half  a  pound  of  grated 
nhled  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs;  a  large  bun- 
,  the  leaves  chopped  ;  four  onions,  minced  small ;  a 
nixed  mace,  powdered.  Season  lightly  with  salt  and 
xture  into  the  place  from  whence  you  took  out  the 
I  deep  cuts  about  the  meat,  and  staff  them  also, 

»>.«»  uuv  lUDBu  luvw  A  proper  shape,  and  secure  its  form  by  tying  it  round 
'  with  tape.    Put  it  into  a  clean  tin  oven  or  bake-pan,  and  pour  over  it  two 

tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.     Put  on   the  lid,  and  bake  the  beef  slowly  for 

At*  or  six  hours,  or  till  it  is  thoroughly  done  all  through.    If  the  meat  in  to 
.  be  eaten  hot,  skim  all  the  &t  from  the  gravy,  into  which,  after  it  is  taken 

off  the  fire,  stir  In  the  beaten  yolk  of  two  eggs.    If  onions  are  disliked,  yoa 

oan'  omit  them  and  sabstitute  minced  oysters. 

A  Pot  Roast. 
Plaoe  a  nloely  trimmed  brisket  of  beef  over  a  good  fire.  Brown  on  one 
side  then  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  Add  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
cover  the  pot  and  let  oook  slowly.  Add  salt  when  meat  is  half  done.  Cook 
fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound.  Add  no  more  water  as  there  shonld  be  enouj^h 
'  £it  to  finish  cooking  it.  Make  a  brown  sauce  from  the  fat  in  pot  after  r* 
'  moving  the  meat. 

To  Pah  a  Bbbfbteak. 
When  not  couni^ent  to  broil  a  steak,  heat  an  iron  pan  very  hot,  pat  tn 
the  ataak,  tarn  It  from  dd,e  to  aide  over  a  very  hot  fire  for  abont  flfleea 
minntas.    Serve  on  a  hot  plate,  seasoned  the  same  as  broiled  steak. 

Bboilkd  Bbsfsteak. 
'  To  oook  B  beefsteak,  have  a  nioe  bright  fire  and  bi-oU  as  quickly  as  pos- 
nble,  without  burning;  if  the  ooala  blaze  from  the  drippings,  sprinkle  on  ft 
Uttle'salt,  which  will  instantly  extinguish  the  fiames.  The  steak  should  be 
time  qaarten  of  an  inch  thick,  should  he  tamed  oonstantty  while  broUiof, 
and  ahoald  not  oook  over  three  minutes ;  butter  and  salt  after  taking  njf. 
This  ■honld  be  served  very  hot  on  a  hot  platter. 

Shothbbiid  Bbkfstbak. 
Take  ■  tUn  alioe  of  steak  three  inches  wide  and  five  Inohea  long  txvm 
Ihm  v^fmc  part  of  tb«  rouitii  and  wipe  it  di^.    Prepare  a  dieadng,  made 


BiBATS.  49 

firom  oupful  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Bait,  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjomm,  the  same  of  pow* 
dered  summer  savorj,  and  enough  milk  to  make  it  a  stiff  mixture.  Spread 
it  over  the  meat,  roll  it  up  carefully  and  tie  with  a  string.  Now  fry  a  few^ 
thin  slices  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  frying  pan,  and  into  the  fat  that 
has  fried  out  of  tliis  pork,  place  this  roll  or  rolls  of  beef,  and  brown  it  on 
all  sides,  turning  it  until  a  rich  color  all  over,  then  add  half  a  pint  of.  water, 
and  stew  until  tender.  A  slice  of  onion  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to 
the  dressing  if  liked.  When  cooked  sufficiently,  take  out  the  meat,  thicken 
the  gravy,  and  turn  over  it.  To  be  carved  by  cutting  crosswise,  in  slioest 
through  beef  and  stuffing.  '      ^ 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. 

« 

Broil  the  steak  in  the  usual  way,  fry  a  dozen  onions  cut  in  slices  nice  and 
brown  in  a  little  beef  drippings  or  butter.  Dish  the  steak  and  lay  the 
onions  thickly  over  the  top.  Cover  and  let  stand  five  minutes  before  send- 
ing to  the  table  very  hot. 

Beef  Cboqubttbs. 

Put  two  cups  of  cold  cooked  meat^  chopped  fine ;  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  lablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  quarter  of 
a  nutmeg,  grated;  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
into  a  frying-pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  hot,  turn  out 
to  cool,  and  when  cold,  form  into  small  balls  or  pyramids,  dip  first  in  beaten 
eggt  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil  or  fat. 

Hamburger  Steak. 

Take  a  pound  of  lean  round  steak,  chop  it  very  fine ;  It  cannot  be 
chopped  too  fine.  Also  chop  a  small  onion  quite  fine,  and  mix  well  with  the 
meat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  make  into  small  flat  oakes  or  into  one 
large  flat  cake.  Fry  brown  in  a  frying-pan,  with  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Garnish  with  celery  top  around  the  edge  of  the  platter  and  slices  of  lemon 
on  the  top  of  the  meat.  Or  they  may  be  broiled  same  as  a  plain  steak,  sea« 
soned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  with  bntter. 

Ha8K  on  Toast. 

To  every  pint  of  oold  meat  cut  in  dice  allow  one  tablespoonful  of  bot* 

ter,  one  tablespoonfol  of  flour  and  a  half-pint  of  boiling  water.   ^When  the 

batter  ie  a  nioe  brown  add  the  flour ;  mix  well ;  add  the  water  and  stir  until 

it  boiU ;  now  mM  ttif  neat,  salt  and  pepper.    Let  simmer  for  flfbeea  minntea 

•4 


id,  batter  tbem,  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.    Put  iha  meat 
ir  the  sauoe  around  it. 

PLA.IN  Hash. 
bopped  fine,  two  cupi  hot  mashed  potatoes,  salt,  pepper, 
g  vater,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  onion  juice.    Put  the 
•pan.    Spread  smootMy,  oover  and  set  baok  where  the 
'Ij.    Oook  about  one  half  hour.     Fold  like  an  omelet. 

Toad  nr  the  Hole. 
Cut  Into  dtee  one  pound  of  roand  steak  or  cold  cooked  ment.  Bent  one 
9gg  very  light  and  add  to  it  one  pint  of  milk ;  add  this  a  little  at  a  time  to 
one  cup  ,ot  flour  being  careful  to  rub  out  all  lumps.  Add  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Butter  a  dish,  put  in  the  meat,  season  it  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.-  Pour  the  batter  upon  it  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  hot. 

To  Roast  Bbbp  Heabt. 
Wash  oatefnlly  and  open  enotgi  to  take  out  the  Tentrioles  and  soak 
three  hours  nntil  ^verj  drop  of  blood  is  discharged.     Wipe  dry  and  stuff 
with  dressing,  as  for  chicken.    Roast  it  two  hours.    Serve  with  brown  sauce. 
It  is  nice  hashed,  served  with  currant  jelly. 

Stbwed  Kidneys. 
Be  sure  that  the  kidneys  are  perfectly  fresh.  Split  them  in  halves; 
trim  off  the  sinews  and  fat  that  are  inside  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife.  Now 
cut  the  kidneys  Into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  stewing-pan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  bring  slowly  almost  to  boiling  point.  Drain  this  water  off,  cover 
with  fresh  cold  water,  and  heat  again.  Do  this  three  times,  each  time  being 
careful  that  it  does  not  boil,  or  the  kidney  will  be  bard  and  tough.  Pat  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  stir  until  a  nice  brown  ;  then 
add  one  tablsepoonful  of  flour  and  a  half-pint  of  stook  or  boiling  water. 
Stir  constantly  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  boils.  Add  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  tablespoonful  of  walnut  oatsup,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  the  kidney.  Stir  again  until  the  kidney  is  thoroughly  heat«d, 
and  serve  immediately. 

KiDHBT  (Terrapin  Style). 
Prepare  the  kidney  the  same  as  for  stewing.    Pot  one  tableipoonfal  of 
Initter  in  the  fiymg-pac ;  vhen  melted,  add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  AoOb 


MEATS,  51 

mix,  n(1<1  a  half-pint  of  milk,  stir  constantlj'^  until  it  boils  ;  add  the  kidneys 
salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  witii  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  kidney  is 
thoroughly  heated.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  tlie  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Serve  immediately.  Liver  may  be  dressed 
in  the  same  way. 

Liver  akd  Baook. 

Gut-one  half  pound  liver  into  thin  slices,  and  scald  it;  >npe  It  dry 
Cut  one-fourth  pound  of  bacon  in  thin  slices,  put  it  in  a  frying-pan  and  fry 
until  brown.'  Remove  to  a  liot  plate.  Put  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  on  tlie 
slices  of  liver  and  cook  them  in  the  bacon  fat.  When  brown  put  them  on 
the  plate  with  the  bacon,  and  prepare  a  gravy  by  adding  the  flour  to  the  fat 
in  the  pan,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  wlien  seasoned,  pour  around  the  liver 
and  bacon,  and  serve. 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef. 

Wash  well  and  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water.  Let  it  simmer  thirty  min- 
utes to  each  pound.  If  served  cold,  allow  it  to  oool  in  the  water  in  which 
it  was  boiled. 

Beef  ScrapplBt 

Take  a  inece  of  neck  and  shin  bone;  cover  with  water:  boil  until  the 
meat  falls  entirely  from  the  bone ;  take  out  and  put  the  water  that  remains 
through  a  colander  to  remove  all  pieces  of  meat  and  bone.  While  picking 
the  meat  to  pieces  and  freeing  it  from  all  fat  and  gristle,  have  your  liquor 
boiling  and  let  boil  down  to  sufficient  quantity  to  barely  cover  the  sliredded 
boef.  Add  the  meat  and  let  boil  up  briskl}^  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  out  in  pans  and  set  away  to  cool.  To  prepare  it  for  the  table  cut  a 
portion  out  of  the  pan,  put  in  8killet%  or  spider,  with  a  half  teacupful  of 
water.  Put  on  the  back  of  stove  till  the  meat  is  melted  down.  Push  on 
front  and  let  boil  up.  Add  a  pijit  of  good  milk,  thickened  with  a  table 
spoonful  of  flour.     Let  boil  and  serve  very  hot. — ^jB.  B,  P- 

0 

To  Curb  Beef  Rounds. 

ft 

Make  a  brine  of  Liverpool  satt  and  water  to  bear  an  egg.  Then  add  one 
teaoupfol  of  b^own  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  to  every  twenty 
pounds  of  beef.  Have  enough  brine  to  cover  and  put  a  weight  on  the  meat 
Let  remain  in  the  pickle  two  weeks— take  out  and  drv. — 72,  -B.  P. 


Whitb  PiTDDnros. 
'  To  a  pint  of  grated  saet  add  one  quart  of  flour.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mnke  bags  out  of  cheese-cloth  three  inoheB  vide  and  aiglit 
inolies  long  and  fill  with  the  dry  mixture.  Tie  loosely,  leaving  room  for  tlie 
pudding  to  swell,  put  in  a  boiler  of  boiling  water  and  boil  three  hours. 
Hang  in  dry  cool  place  until  wanted  for  use,  when  you  boil  one  a  half  hour, 
'  It  is  a  safe  plan  when  ipaking  the  puddings  to  tie  a  little  of  the  mixture 
in  a  oloth  and  boil  a  little  while  to  tiiste  if  properly  seasoned,  btfore  bugging 
it  all.  One  of  these  makes  a  nice  breakfast  dish  if  served  very  liot  on  a  liot 
dish.— il.  B.  P. 

Rolled  Beefsteak. 
Take  a  round  of  beefsteak,  cut  thiu,  Uike  all  the  bone  and  fat  front  it. 
Make  a  stufBng  as  for  chicken  and  uproiid  all  over  it.  Uoll  tightly  and  tie 
with  a  string.  Koast  twenty-five  minutes  to  every  pound  in  a  baking-pan 
in  which  you  have  put  any  pieces  of  suet  trimmings  fram  the  steak  and  a 
half  oup  of  water.    Serve  with  Brown  Sauce. — M.  B.  P, 

Savoby  Beep  or  Veal. 
Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  uncooked  meat,  pounded  and  chopped.  Take 
out  all  the  strings  and  add  to  it  six  square  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  warmed  but  not  melted;  six  tablespooiifuls  of  sweet  cream, 
three  eggs  broken  over  the  meat,  one  whole  nutmeg  grated,  four  teaspoon- 
ftils  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
marjoram.  Knead  the  mixture  well  with  the  hands,  make  it  in  two  rol!s 
about  the  siee  of  a  beefs  tongue;  press  it  very  closely  into  the  rolls — and 
bake  them  one  and  one-half  hours,  basting  well  with  butler  and  water. 

Dbhsd  Beep  with  Crbam. 
Shave  the  dried  beef  very  thin.     Put  In  a  frying  pa.i  with  a  little  wnter. 
Let  the  water  boll  away  and  stir  while  the  meat  browns-     Pour  on  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cioam  thiekened  with  flour.     Add  a  little  peppor,  stir  until  it  boils, 
and  serve  immediately.     A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Frizzled  Beef. 

Shave  off  slices  of  dried  beef,  cover«with  cold  water,  put  them  in  a 

frying-piin,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  range,  and  let  it  come  to  a  very  slow 

heat :  allowinf;  it  time  to  Kwell  nut  to  its  natural  size,  but  not  to  boil.     Stir 

tt  ip,  and  if  very  salty  dntin  off  the  water.    Melt  one  tublespouiirul  of  sweet 


MEATS.  58 

butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and  add  the  wafers  of  beef.  When  they  begin  to 
frizzle  or  turn  up^  break  over  them  three  eggs;  stir  until  the  eggs  are 
cooked ;  add  a  little  pepper,  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Tripe. 

Tripe  is  tl)e  large  stomtich  of  the  ruminating  animals,  and  should  be 
scalded  in  boiling  water  suiBciently  to  loosen  the  inside  coating,  when  it  will  , 
easily  scrape  off.  Wash  it  well  through  several  boiling  waters,  then  put  it  ' 
into  cold  water  and  soak  overnight.  Scrape  again  until  white  and  clean. 
Place  it  in  a  stewpan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  one  onion,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  twelve  whole  cloves,  and  twelve  pepper-corns.  Simmer  gently  for 
six  hours,  and  it  is  ready  to  use  in  any  way.  It  is  usually  sold  in  cities 
cleaned,  but  not  boiled. 

Soused  Tripe. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  boiled  tripe  (honeycomb)  Into  pieces  about  two 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide.  Put  eighteen  cloves,  twelve  pepper-corns, 
one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  blade  of  mace,  eighteen  whole  allspice,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one  small  onion  in  a  porcelain  kettle  to  boil.  Put  the 
tripe  in  a  ghiss  or  stone  jar  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  it.  Stand 
away  for  a  couple  of  days  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  It  will  keep  for  two  or 
three  weeks. 

Mutton  and  Lamb. 

The  fat  on  good  mutton  is  white,  hard  and  clear ;  the  lean  bright  red, 
firm,  and  juicy,  and  the  leg  bones  nearly  white.  In  roasting  it  should  not 
he  salted  at  first  as  it  tends  to  draw  out  too  much  of  the  blood  or  juices. 
The  leg,  shoulder,  and  loin  make  nice  roasting  pieces ;  the  breast  and  neck  * 
are  used  for  soups  and  stews ;  the  loins  are  also  cut  into  loin  and  French 
chops. 

Roast  Quarter  of  Lamb. 

Take  a  nice  hind-quarter,  remove  some  of  the  fat  that  is  around  the 
kidney,  skewer  the  lower  joint  up  to  the  fillet.  Let  it  heat  through  slowly, 
in  a  moderate  oven,  then  dredge  it  with  salt  and  flour;  quicken  the  fire,  put  . 
a  pint  of  water  into  the  dripping-pan,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  With  thie 
liquor  baste  the  meat  occasionally.  Lettuce,  green  peas,  and  mint  sauce  are 
nice  served  with  this  roast.     Roast  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound. 

Stewed  Lamb  with  Green  Peas. 

Put  two  pounds  of  Iamb  into  a  stew-pan  and  cover  with  hot  watery 
after  fifteen  minutes  skim  and  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  then  let  the 


64  '.  MEATS. 

meat  stew  for  of  le  and  one-half  hours :  now  add  some  boiling  water  (to  roakb 
gravy)  \  add  yoiir  green  peas  ;  let  these  cook  about  twenty  minutes  ;  stir 
up  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  one-half  cupful  of  milk  and  mix  with  the 
stew  I  let  this  cook  two  minutes.    Serve  with  mint  sauce. 

Bbeast  of  Lamb  with  Asparagus  Tops. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  a  breast  of  lamb  after  removing  the  skin  and  part 
of  the  fat.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  brown  nicely  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter.  Cover  the  meat  with  warm  water,  add  one 
bunch  of  parsley,  two  button  onions,  simmer  until  the  meat  is  cooked ; 
skim  off  the  fat,  take  out  the  oniony  and  parsley,  and  mince  the  latter 
finely ;  return  it  to  the  gravy  with  one  pint  of  the  tops  of  boiled  asparagus, 
add  salt  aiid  pepper,  simmer  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  serve.  Canned  aspara- 
gus may  be  used  when  the  fresh  vegetable  is  out  of  season. 

Ragout  of  Mutton. 

Cut  cold  mutton  or  lamb  into  pieces  about  one  inch  square.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and,  when  very  brown,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  mix ;  add  a  half-pint  of  stock  or  water,  stir  constantly 
Until  it  boils,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Now  add 
one  pint  of  the  mutton,  and  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  until  the  mut* 
ton  is  thoroughly  heated.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  current  jelly  if  liked. 
Send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Irish  Stew. 

Put  two  pounds  of  mutton  cutlets  or  chops,  and  four  pounds  good  po- 
tatoes, peeled  and  sliced,  in  alternate  layers  in  a  large  saucepan  or  stewpan, 
season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt^  and  a  finely  shredded  onion,  if  liked  ; 
add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Serve  very 
hot.    Dumplings  may  be  used  if  liked. 

Scalloped  Mutton. 

Cut  cold  cooked  mutton  into  small  pieces.  Put  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs 
on  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  dish,  then  a  layer  of  mutton  then  gravy.  Mois- 
ten bread  crumbs  in  melted  butter  and  spread  over  the  top.  Bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  brown. 

Mutton  Stew. 

Two  pounds  neck  of  mutton,  two  quarts  cold  water,  one-quarter  cup 
«aeh  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion  and  celery,  two  tablespoouf uls  of  butter  or  drip- 


MEATa  65 

piags,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  one  tnliiespoonful  chopped 
parsley  and  one-lmlf  cup  pearl  barley.  Pick  over  the  barley.  Soak  it  in  cold 
water  several  hours  or  overnight.  Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Re 
move  fat  and  skin.  Scrape  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Cut  in  one-half  ii'ich 
dice.  Put  the  bones  on  to  boil  in  one  pint  cold  water  and  the  meat  in  three 
pints  cold  water.  When  the  latter  boils  add  the  barley.  Cut  the  vegetables 
into  one-quarter  inch  dice,  fry  them  five  minutes  in  one  tablespoonful  of  the 
drippings,  add  tlie  meat.  Simmer  tliree  or  four  Iiours  or  until  the  meat  and 
barley  are  tender.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  bones  have  been  simmered. 
Cook  one  tablespoonful  butter  or  drippings  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one  table- 
spoonful  flour,  and  the  strained  water  gradually,  and  stir  into  the  broth. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley.     Simmer  ten  minutes.    Serve  without  strain* 

Veal. 

When  veal  is  too  young  it  is  not  wholesome.  The  flesh  should  be  firm 
xnd  pink — but  if  too  young  it  will  have  a  bluish  tinge. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Vbal. 

Take  the  bone  fpom  a  nice  fillet  and  fill  up  the  space  with  stu£Bng,  and 
also  put  a  good  layer  under  the  fat.  Make  it  a  good  shape  by  drawing  the 
fat  round,  and  tie  it  up  with  tape.  It  should  have  careful  attention  and 
frequent  basting  with  butter  that  tiie  fat  may  not  burn.  After  taking 
it  up  pour  melted  butter  over  it;  serve  with  ham  or  bacon,  and  fresh  cu- 
cumbers, if  in  season.  Veal,  like  all  other  meat,  should  be  well  washed  in 
cold  water  before  cooking  and  wiped  thorouglily  dry  with  a  clean  cloth* 
Cold  fillet  of  veal  is  very  good  stewed  with  tomatoes  and  an  onion  or  so.  The 
fat  of  a  loin  should  be  covered  with  greased  paper  to  prevent  it  burning,  a 
fillet,  also,  should  have  on  the  caul  until  nearly  done.  Roast  from  three  to 
four  hours,  according  to  the  size. 

Frioassbed  Veal. 

Fry  the  veal  in  a  little  butter  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  enough 
water  to  cover  the  meat  and  simmer  till  done.  Thicken  the  liquor  same  as 
for  fricasseed  chicken. 

Roast  Loin  of  Veal. 

Wash,  wipe,  and  place  it  in  a  baking-pan,  and  dredge  it  with  pepper.  Put 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  cup  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  place  in  a  very  quick 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  cool  the  oven  son^ewhati  and  roast  slowly  for 


for  every  pound  of  veiil.  basting  frequently,  at  firiit  with  the 
water  in  t^e  pau,  and  afterward  with  its  own  giHvy.  Veal  iiiiiHt  be  well 
dona  to  be  cutable.i    When  donei  initke  a  giiivy  ihu  t^aiiie  as  fur  roast  beef. 

I  Vkal  Cutlets  Beeadbd. 

I'he  cutlets  should  be  as  thin  as  possible,  cover  with  bulling  water,  ntid  . 
let  stand  one  minute  ;  then  drain,  and  wipe  dry.  Cul  into  small  pitsces  and 
dip  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  which  have  been  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  two  tablespoon fn Is  of  drippings  in  a  frying-pau ; 
when  hot,  fry  wrll  the  cutlets  first  on  one  side  and  then  ou  the  other.  Dish, 
and  sarve  with  brown  gravy  as  with  roast  beef. 

Vbaij  Loap. 

To  three  pounds  of  lean  rare  veal,  take  one  pound  of  salt  pork  chopped 

fine  and  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  three  eggs  beaten  light,  pepper  and  ealt. 

Mix  well  and  make  into  a  loaf.    Ship  it  so  as  to  make  it  solid,  put  it  in  a 

covered  pan,  sprinkle  with  cracker  dust  over  the  top  and  dots  of  butter. 

'    ifo  water.     Bake  two  liours. 

Vkal  OrOQUK'I'TES. 

Mince  a  coffee  cup  of  cold  veal  in  a  chopping  bowl,  adding  a  little  cold 
nam,  and  two  or  three  slices  of  onion,  apindi  of  mace,  powdered  parsley  and 
pepper,  sonie  salt.  Let  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  come  to  the  boiling  point, 
then  add  a'  tablespoonful  of  cold  bnttor,  then  the  above  mixture.  Beat  up 
two  eggs  and  mix  with  a  teaspponfnl  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  and  add  to  the 
rest;  cook  it  all  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  with  care.  Remove  from  the 
Are,  and  spread  it  on  a  platter,  roll  it  into  balls,  when  cooled  flatten  each; 
dip  them  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  a  wire  basket,  dipped  in  hot 
lai'd. 

Veai,  Potpik. 

One  knuckle  of  veal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  half  cup  of  lavd, 
one  small  onion,  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  tw<i  teaspoonfuls  of  baking* 
powder,  one-lialf  pint  of  milk,  three  pints  of  water.  Put  the  water  in  a 
stewpan,  add  the  knuckle,  oiituii,  and  salt:  simmer  fur  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
There  must  be  at  least  two  thirds  of  a  quart  of  liquor  wheA  the  meat  is 
done ;  if  it  has  evaporated,  add  hot  water  to  make  that  quantity.  Put  the 
flour  into  a  bowl,  add  the  salt,  then  rub  in  the  lard;  add  the  biiklng 
powder,  mix,  and  moisten  with  the  milk.  Roll  out  on  a  board,  cnt  wiih  a 
round  cutter,  and  place  over  the  top  o£  the  meat ;  cover  the  stewpan  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes. 


MEATS.  57 

Calf's  Head  Chrksb. 

Boil  a  calf 8  head  in  ^ater  enough  to  cover  it,  until  the  meat  leaves  the 
bones,  then  take  it  with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray ;  take  from 
it  every  particle  of  bone ;  chop  fine ;  season  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  ol 
dalt,  a  teaspoon ful  of  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  fniel}'  chopped  sweet 
herbs ;  lay  a  cloth  in  a  colander,  put  the  minced  meat  into  it,  then  fold  the 
cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  plate  over,  and  on  it  a  gentle  weight.  When  cold 
it  may  be  sliced  thin  for  supper  or  sandwiches.  Spread  each  slice  with  made 
muslard. 

Sweetbreads. 

Soak  an  hour  in  cold  water  soon  as  you  buy  them ;  trim  off  all  fat 
and  parboil  fifteen  minutes  in  porcelain  or  granite  saucepan,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Then  put  in  cold  water  ;  draw  oif  any  skin  or  rough  pieces  and 
remove  the  link  pipes.  Cut  in  thin  slices.  Be  sure  and  use  a  silver  knife 
in  cutting. 

Sweetbreads  Fried. 

Prepare  them  as  above ;  dip  them  first  in  eggs,  then  in  bread-orumba 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat  or  broil. 

Sweetbreads  au  Jus. 

Two  pairs  of  sweetbreads,  one  bay  leaf,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  slice  of  onion,  one  clove,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  one  small  head  of  cauli- 
flower. Parboil  the  sweetbreads.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  add  the 
onion,  bay  leaf,  clove,  parsley,  and  sweetbreads;  cover  the  pan  and  stand  it 
in  a  hot  oven,  basting  with  the  butter,  and  baking  for  thirty  minutes.  Boil 
the  cauliflower,  break  it  apart  in  the  little  brunches,  and  put  it  around  a 
heated  dish.  Take  the  sweetbreads  from  the  oven,  add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  stock,  boil  up  once.  Dish  the  sweetbreads  in  the  centre  of  the  cauli^ 
flower,  turn  the  gravy  over  them  tlirough  a  strainer  and  serve. 

Pork. 

The  best  parts  and  those  usually  used  for  roasting  are  the  loin,  the  leg, 
the  shoulder,  the  sparerib,  and  the  chine.  The  hams,  shoulders  and  middlings 
are  usually  salted,  pickled  and  smoked.  Pork  requires  more  thoroug\  cook- 
ing than  most  meats ;  if  the  least  underdone  it  is  unwholesome,  fvnd  it 
should  never  be  eaten  by  persons  of  weak  digestion  or  by  children.  The 
flesh  should  b^  firm,  smooth  and  of  a  pale  red  color,  the  fat  firm  and  l^^^lte• 


/ 


58      ,  MEATa 

KoAST  Loin  of  Pobk. 

Soore  the  Bkin  with  a  sharp  knife  in  strips  aboat  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
apart ;  plaoe  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  very  little  water  under  it,  wid  a  tMi- 
dpoonful  of  salt.  Place  in  hot  oven  and  baste  frequently  foi  th:^  first 
twenty  minutes,  then  cook  more  slowly.    If  it  is  very  lean,  it  should  be 

i  rubbed  with  fresh  lard  or  butter  when  put  into  the  pan.  A  stuffing  might 
be  made  of  bread-crumbs,  chopped  sage  and  onions,  pepper,  r\nd  salt,  and 

•  baked  separately  on  a  pie  dish ;  this  method  is  better  than  putting  it  in  the 
meat,  as  many  persons  have. a  great  aversion  to  its  flavor.  A  loin  weighing 
about  six  pounds  will  roast  in  two  hours;  allow  more  time  if  it  should  be 
very  fat.  Make  a  gravy  with  flour  stirred  into  the  pork  drippings.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce,  pickles,  or  horseradish. 

Roast  Leg  and  Shottldkb  of  Pork. 

The  leg  and  shoulder  may  be  roasted  the  same  as  a  loin, — roastipg 
twenty-five  minutes  to  every  pound. 

Pork  Chofs. 

Dust  the  chops  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour;  fry  in  a  tablespoon ful  of 
hot  dripping  until  a  nice  brown,  and  thoroughly  done.  It  will  take  about 
twenty-five  minutes.  Dish.  Pour  nearly  all  the  fat  from  the  frying-pan 
into  your  dripping-pot,  and  to  that  remaining — which  should  be  about  a 
tablcspoonful — add  one  tablespoon  ful  of  flour,  and  brown.  Then  add  a 
half- pint  of  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  up  once,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  pour  over  the  chops,  or  they  may  be  served  with  fried  apples.  Steaks 
and  cutlets  may  be  fried  in  the  same  manner. 

Soused  Pig's  Feet. 

After  cleaning  the  feet  and  scraping  them  well,  soak  them  in  cold  water 
three  hours,  then  wash  and  scrub  well.  Split  the  feet  and  crack  in  two  or 
three  places.  Then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  and  just  cover  with  cold 
water ;  place  over  a  moderate  fire  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Put  a  half- 
pint  of  good  cider  vinegar,  three  blades  of  mace,  one  dozen  whole  cloves, 
and  two  bay  leaves  in  a  pan  and  boil  for  one  minute.  Season  the  feet  with 
salt  and  pepper,  put  into  an  earthen  basin,  and  pour  over  them  the  spiced 
vinegar  while  hot ;  then  stand  in  a  cold  place.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  the 
next  day* 

Roast  Ham. 
The  most  delicious  way  to  cook  ham  is  to  boil  a  small  pig  ham,  until 

tbe  skin  will  peel  off,  then  stick  in  q1ovq8  over  the  eurfage  of  tUo  h«im  • 


MEATa  59 

oorer  with  bread  orambs,  plaoe  in  a  drippiog-pan,  raising  it  a  little  from  the 
'an  by  sticks,  and  bak«  tweiity-flve  iniuutes  to  every  pound. 

BoiuoD  Ham. 

Soak  it  for  an  hour  in  oold  water,  then  wash  it  thoroughly  with  a 
small  brush.  Gut  with  a  sharp  knife  the  hardened  surface  &om  the  base  and 
butt  of  the  ham.  Plaoe  it  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  with  a  blade  of  nince, 
six  cloves  and  a  bay  leaf,  and  let  it  come  to  a  moderate  boil,  keeping  it 
steadily  at  this  point,  allowing  it  to  cook  twenty  minutes  for  every  pound  of 
meat.  When  the  ham  is  to  be  served  hot,  remove  the  skin  by  peeling  it  off, 
place  it  on  a  platter,  the  fat  side  up,  and  dot  the  surface  with  spots  of  black 
pepper.  Stick  in  also  some  whole  cloves.  If  the  ham  is  to  be  served  oold, 
allow  it  to  remain  in  the  pot  until  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  be* 
comes  cold.  This  makes  it  more  juicy.  Serve  it  in  the  same  manner  as 
when  served  hot.     Serve  with  asparagus,  peas  or  oauliflowtc 

Ham  Pattibs, 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  ham  chopped  fine,  mix  with  one  quart  of 
breiid-crumbs,  wet  with  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  the  batter  in  gem  pans, 
break  one  egg  over  each,  sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  cracker  orumbs  and 
bake  until  brown. 

Ham  Cboqubttbs. 

Take  two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  and  one  of  ham  chopped  line,  two 
eggs  and  a  little  pepper.  Make  in  the  shape  of  croquettes ;  dip  in  egg  and 
bread  orumbs.     Cook  in  boiling  fat  same  as  chicken  croquettes. 

Fbioatblli. 

Chop  raw  fresh  pork  very  fine,  add  a  little  salt,  plenty  of  pepper,  and 
two  small  onions  chopped  fine,  half  as  much  bread  as  there  is  meat,  soaked 
until  soft,  two  eggs;  mix  well  together,  make  into  oblong  patties,  and  fry 
like  oysters.  These  are  nice  for  breakfast ;  if  used  for  supper,  serve  with 
sliced  lemon* 

Pig's  Hsad  Chbbsbl 
Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  calf's  head.eheeso. 

Ham  Balls. 

Chop  one-half  oup  of  ham  very  fine ;  boil  one-half  a  cup  of  milk  and 
tbtokeo  with  two  tablespoon fuls  of  br^ad-cruraba.    Add  the  yolks  of, tWQ 


HEATS. 

eggs,  (t  quarter  of  a  tewpoonful  of  nutmeg,  sams  of  ult,  &  dash  of  p«pptr, 
aud  a  tablospoonful  of  parsley  oliopped  fiue.  Mix  wtU  tog«thtr  and  Mt  to 
cool.  Form  ioto  pyramids  or  balls  when  oold;  dip  in  eggaad  bread  orumbB 
and  ttj  in  boiling  hot  fat. 

MiNOBD  Hau  with  Eggs. 
Mix  cracker  orumbe  with  an  equal  quautity  of  finely  mlD0«d  lean  bam. 
Moisten  this  mixture  with  a  little  hot  water  aud  a  amall  piece  of  butter. 
Put  in  a  baking  dish.  Make  depressions  in  it.  Place  in  each  the  yolk  and 
white  of  one  egg.  Bake  a  delioate  brown.  Any  other  meat  hash  may  ha 
MTved  in  the  same  way. 

To  Curb  Pore. 
Take  seven  pounds  of  Liverpool  salt,  two  canoes  laltpetre,  three  pounds 
sugar,  four  gallons  water  to  every  liundred  pounds  of  pork.  Boil  the 
salt  and  water  and  skim  as  long  as  scum  appears.  Then  add  the  sugar  and 
saltpetre.  Put  in  a  vessel  to  oool.  Do  not  put  in  the  meat  till  oold.  Let 
it  remain  in  the  piokle  six  or  seven  weeks. 

Savbaoe. 
Chop  fifteen  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork  and  Ave  poonds  of  ohine  fat 
very  fine ;  use  a  meat  chopper  if  you  have  on*.  Mix  and  ndd  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sage,  two  of  summer  savory,  five  ounoes  of  salt,  two 
onnces  of  black  pepper  and  two  ounces  of  allspioe.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
the  hands.  Taste  to  see  that  it  has  the  right  flavor.  Make  into  cakes,  or  fill 
the  clean  intestines  of  the  hog.  If  you  wish  to  keep  them  for  two  or  three 
months  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  or  r  pan,  cover  with  melted  lard  and  stand 
away  to  oool.  Many  like  spices  and  herbs  added  to  the  seasoning — oloves, 
mace,  sage,  and  summer  savory.     This  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

Br'badbd  Sadsaqbs. 
Wipe  the  sanaagea  dry.     Dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread-orumbs. 
Cook  them  in  deep  hot  fat.    Drain.    Serve  with  a  garnish  of  toasted  bread 
and  parsley. 

Fried  Saosaobs. 
■■  If  in  skins,  prick  them  all  over  with  a  la^e  darning  needle  or  tork. 
Lay  them  iu  a  hot  frying-pan  ana  cook  until  brown.  Turn  often.  If  gravy 
is  wanted,  stir  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  the  fat  in  the  pan,  add  one 
cup  of  milk  and  season  to  taste.  Pour  the  sauce  round  the  sausages.  Serve 
not 


m 

Roast  Haunch  of  Venisoh .  .         . 

To  prepare  a  haunch  of  venison  for  roasting,  wash  it  slightlj  in  tepid 
water,  and  dry  it  tlioroughly  by  rubbing  it  with  a  clean  soft  cloth.  Laj 
over  the  fat  side  a  large  sheet  of  thickly  buttered  paper,  and  next  a  paste  ut 
flour  and  water  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ;  cover  tliis  again  with 
two  or  three  sheets  of  stout  paper,  secure  the  whole  well  with  twine,  and 
put  down  to  roast,  with  a  little  water,  in  tlie  dripping-pan.  Let  the  fire  be 
clear  and  strong;  baste  the  paper  immediately  with  butter  or  clarified  drip- 
l)ings,  and  roast  the  joint  from  three  to  four  hours,  according  to  its  weight 
and  quality.  Doe  venison  will  require  half  an  l)our  less  time  than  buck 
venison.  About  twenty  minutes  before  the  joint  is  done  remove  the  paste 
and  paper,  baste  the  meat  in  every  part  with  butter,  and  dredge  it  very 
lightly  with  flour;  let  it  take  a  pale  brown  color,  and  serve  hot  with  un- 
flavored  gravy  made  with  a  thickening,  in  a  tureen  and  good  currant  jelly. 
Venison  is  much  better  when  the  deer  has  been  killed  in  the  autumn,  when 
wild  berries  are  plentiful,  and  it  has  abundant  opportunities  to  fatten  upon 
this  and  other  fresh  food. —  Windsor  Hotels  MontreaL 

Venison  Stkaks. 

It  requires  but  a  short  time  to  broil  venison  steaks,  and  they  should  U 
served  very  hot.  Heat  the  dish  in  wliicli  they  are  to  be  served;  put  in  it  » 
piece  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  currant 
jelly.  If  the  steaks  are  half  an  inch  thick,  eight  minutes  will  broil  them. 
Put  them  in  the  heated  dish  and  turn  them  once  or  twice  in  the  mixture. 
Serve  hot  on  hot  plates. 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue. 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue  and  just  cover  it  with  water  in  the  pot;  add  more 
water  as  it  evaporates,  so  as  to  keep  the  tongue  nearly  covered  until  done— 
about  four  or  six  hours — when  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.;  take  it 
out,  and  if  wanted  soon,  take  off  tlie  skin  and  set  it  away  Co  cool.  li 
wanted  for  future  use,  let  cool  in  tlie  liquor.  A  cupful  of  sa/-  will  do  for 
three  tonguefe,  if  you  have  that  number  to  boil;  but  do  not  fail  to  keep 
water  enough  in  tlie  pot  to  keep  them  covered  while  boiling.  If  saU 
tongues  are  used,  soalc  them  over  night,  of  course  omitting  the  calt  whea 
boiling. 

Pressed  Lamb. 

Take  a  piece  of  lean  lamb,  season  and  let  cook  iiht*!  tender  and  thd 
water  has  nearly  cooked  off.     Chop  the  meat  to  a  fine  haph  and  put  into  a 


I 
\ 


•S  MBAT& 

dB«h;  pour  over  this  the  balance  of  the  juice  and  press  by  putting  a  plate 
OTer  tbe  top  and  a  flatiron  upon  this.    Serve  with  sliced  cucumbers. 

PoEX  Chops  and  Fribd  Apples. 

Season  the  chops  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  powdered  sage,  if 
liked;  dip  them  into  bread-crumbs.  Fry  and  put  them  on  a  hot  dish;  pour 
off  part  of  the  gravy  into  another  pan  to  make  a  gravy  to  serve  with  them, 
if  you  choose.  Then  fry  apples  which  you  have  sliced  crosswise  about  two- 
thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  having  the  core  in  the  centre  of  each  piece ;  then 
cut  out  the  core.  When  they  are  browned  on  one  side  and  partly  cooked, 
turn  them  carefully  with  a  pancake  turner,  and  finish  cooking. 

Spabbrib  Potpib. 

Out  the  spareribs  once  across  and  then  in  strips  three  inches  wide,  put 
on  in  a  kettle  with  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  stew  until  tender,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  out  of  kettle ;  replace  a  layer  of  spareribs  in  the 
bottom,  add  a  layer  of  pared  potatoes  (sliced  thick)  pieces  of  butter,  some 
small  squares  of  dough  rolled  quite  thin,  season  again,  then  another  layer 
of  bpareribs,  and  so  on  until  the  kettle  is  two-thirds  full,  leaving  the  squares 
of  crust  for  the  last  layer ;  then  add  the  liquor  in  which  the  spareribs  were 
boiled,  and  hot  water  if  needed,  cover,  boil  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
being  careful  to  add  hot  water  so  as  not  to  let  it  boil  dry.  If,  after  taking 
up,  there  is  not  sufficient  gravy,  add  hot  water  and  flour  and  butter  rubbed 
together ;  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

• 

S0ITABLB   AOCOMPANIHBNTS  TO  MSATS. 

With  roast  beef:  tomato  sauce,  grated  horse-radish,  mustard,  cranberry 
sauoe,  pickles. 

With  roast  pork :  apple  sauce. 

With  roast  veal :  tomato,  mushroom  and  onion  sauce* 

With  roast  mutton :  cdrrant  jelly,  caper  sauce. 

With  boiled  mutton :  onion  sauce,  caper  sauce. 

With  boiled  fowls :  bread  sauce,  onion  sauce,  lemon  sauce,  jellies.  Also 
cream  sauce. 

With  roast  lamb :  mint  sauce. 
.  With  roast  turkey :  cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly,  oj'ster  sauce* 

With  venison  or  wild  ducks:  cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly. 

With  roast  goose :  apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  grape  or  currant  Jelly* 

With  boiled  fresh  mackerel: -stewed  gooseberriea« 


MEATS. 


68 


With  boiled  blue  fish :  white  cream  sauce,  ]enion  sauce. 
With  broiled  shad;;  mushroom  sauce,  parsley  or  egg  sauce. 
With  fresh  salmon  :  green  peas,  cream  sauce. 

Pickles  are  good  with  all  roast  meats,  and  in  fact  are  suitable  aecom 
paniments  to  all  kinds  of  meats  in  general. 

Spinach  is  the  uroper  accompaniment  to  veal ;  green  peas  to  Iamb. 


/ 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGa 


To  Brown  Floub. 

Spread  flour  upon  a  tin  pie -plate,  set  it  upon  the  stove  or  in  a  very  hot 
OTen,  and  stir  continually  after  it  begins  to  color,  until  it  is  brown  all 
through.  Keep  it  always  on  hand ;  put  away  in  glass  jars  covered  closely. 
It  is  excellent  for  coloring  and  thickening  many  dishes. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauos. 

■ 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  mix  well  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  flour.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  one-half  pint  of  water  ;  cover  and  set  in  a 
larger  saucepan  filled  with  boiling  water.  Shake  it  till  thoroughly  melted  ; 
.  take  it  oif  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  If 
you  set  it  on  too  hot  a  fire,  it  will  be  oily.  If  the  butter  and  flour  are  not 
t^ell  mixed,  it  will  be  lumpy.    Serve  with  asparagus,  boiled  fish,  etc. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Mix  one  tablespoonrul  of  flour  in  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ; 
then  add  a  half-pint  of  cream  or  milk.  Stir  continually  until  it  boils.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  use  at  once.  This  is  nice  served  with  lobster  chops, 
sweetbreads,  etc. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Chop  two  hard-boiled  eggs  quite  fine,  the  white  and  yolks  separately, 
and  stir  them  into  a  cream  sauce  before  serving.  This  is  used  for  boiled  fowl& 
and  boiled  fish.  For  the  former,  you  can  add  some  minced  parsley  ;  for  the 
latter,  chopped  pickles,  capei*s,  or  nasturtium  seed.  For  boiled  beef,  a  small 
shallot  minced  fine. 

Mtnt  Sauce. 

Chop  the  mint  very  fine,  put  in  a  prravy  boat,  and  to  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  mint  put  two  Qf  white  sugar  ;  add  salt  e.nd  pepoer,  then  pour  ovat  U 
^64) 


aAtJC£S  ATHt)  DRRSStKOS  H 

six  tablespoottfula  of  good  cider,  little  by  little.  The  sauce  should  be  mndo 
some  time  before  it  is  to  be  used,  so  that  the  flavor  of  the  mint  may  be  well 
extracted.     Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

White  Sauob, 

Add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  then  add 
one-half  pint  of  white  stock  and  stir  continually  until  it  boils.  Season  to 
taste. 

Onion  Sauob* 

After  making  a  WhiuC  Sauce  or  Cream  Sauce  add  one  dosen  small 
onions  that  have  been  boiled  in  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  drained, 
and  put  through^a  sieve.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Fine 
with  boiled  fowl. 

Mushroom  Sauob. 

Wash  a  pint  of  small  button  mushrooms,  remove  the  stems  and  outside 
skins,  stew  them  slowly  in  veal  gravy  or  milk  or  cream,  adding  an  onion, 
and  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Their 
flavor  will  be  heightened  by  salting  a  few  the  night  before,  to  extract  the 
juice,  or  make  a  Cream  SaucCf  add  a  cup  of  canned  mushrooms  chopped 
fine.  Then  simply  heat  the  mixture.  Do  not  cook  it,  for  cooking  toughens 
the  mushrooms. 

Bbowk  Sauob. 

One  quarter  pound  of  bacon,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  pint  of  stock,  one  tablespoonful  of  ' 
mushroom  catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Slice  the  bacon,  put  it  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  fry  out  all  the  fat.  Take  out  the  bacon,  add  the  flour,  stir 
until  smooth  ;  add  the  stock,  stir  continually  until  it  boils  ;  add  the  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  mushroom  catsup,  salt  and  pepper ;  take  from  the  fire,  and 
serve. 

CURBANT  JbLLT  SaUOB. 

Make  Drown  sauce,  and  add  to  it  four  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  • 
let  it  boil  up  once,  and  it  is  ready  to  use.    This  is  served  with  game. 

Oyster  Sauob. 

Roil  a  pint  of  oysters  In  their  own  liquor  one  minute,  or  until  they  be- 
gin to  rufSe.    Skim  out  the  oysters  into  a  warm  dish,  put  into  the  liquor  a 
6 


1  . 

« 


66  SAUCES  AND  DRESStNCa 

toaaup  of  mtllc  or  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
pasta  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Boil  up  and  then  add  the  oysters, 
chopped  into  dice.  Season.  Oyster  sauce  is  used  for  fish,  roast,  turkey, 
chickens  and  boiled  white  meats  of  most  kinds. 

Shad  Rob  Sauob. 

,  After  washing  two  shad  roes  in  cold  water,  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  teaspooiiful  of  salt  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cover  and  sim- 
mer gently,  for  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  remove  the  outer  skin,  and 
mash  fine.  Make  a  white  sauce  and  add  the  roe,  quietly.  Boil  up  once  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.    Serve  with  baked  shad. 

Fish  Sauob. 

Make  one-half  pint  of  drawn  butter,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  tomato 
eatsap  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  little  salt,  and  three  hard-boiled  eggs 
ehopped  fine.    Very  nice  poure4  over  boiled  fish. 

ToHATO  Sauob. 

Pat  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  over  the  fire  in  a  stewpan,  with  one  slice 
of  onion,  a  bay  leaf^  and  two  cloves,  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  about 
twenty  minutes ;  them  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve. 
Now  melt  in  another  pan  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  as  it  melts,  sprinkle  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  stir  it  until  it  browns  and  froths  a  little.  Mix  the 
tomato  pulp  with  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Excellent  for  mutton 
chops,  roast  beef,  ete» 

OxTK&r  Sauob. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder,  one  large  slice  of  onion,  one  large  cupful  of  stock,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Cut  the  onion  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  the  butter.  Add  the  fiour 
and  curry  powder.  Stir  for  one  minute,  add  the  stock  and  season  with  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  five  minutes;  then  strain  and  serve.  This  sauce 
can  be  served  with  a  broil  or  sauti  of  meat  or  fish. 

HORSB-BADISH  SaUOB. 

One  tablespoonful  of  grated  horse-radish,  one  teaspoonful  of  prepared 
mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  serve  with  cold  roast  meat. 


8AUCES  AND  DRESSINGa  67 

Pabsley  Sauce. 

Pick  free  from  stems,  wash  and  dry  in  a  cloth,  a  handful  of  parsley  | 
throw  it  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  salt;  let  it  boil  one  minute,  then 
drain  it.  Chop  it  fine  and  add  to  drawn  butter  a  few  minutes  before  tak^ 
ing  up. 

LOBSTBB  SAXJOB. 

Chop  fine  one  cup  of  boiled  lobster,  and  if  there  be  any  eoral  rub  ft, to 
a  smooth  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Make  a  Drawn  Butter,  add 
the  lobster  and  coral ;  return  to  the  fire  and  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  eon* 
stantly.    Serve  with  fish. 

Olivb  Sauos. 

Pare  one  dozen  queen  olives  around  and  around  and  then  throw  them 
in  boiling  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Make  a  brown  sauce,  add  the  drained 
olives  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Salt  and  pepper.  This  is  nice  served 
with  beef  steak  or  roast  fowl. 

Capibb  Sauob. 

Chop  the  capers  a  little,  unless  quite  small ;  make  a  teacup  of  drawn 
butter,  add  the  capers,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  the  Juice  from  the  bottle  in 
which  they  are  sold;  let  it  Just  simmer,  and  serve  in  a  tureen.  Nasturtiums 
resemble  capers  in  taste,  though  larger,  and  may  be  used,  and,  in  fact,  are 
preferred  by  many.  When  used  as  capers  they  should  be  chopped  more. 
If  neither  capers  nor  nasturtiums  are  at  hand,  some  pickles  chopped  up 
form  a  very  good  substitute  in  the  sauce. 

« 

Pbepabed  Mustabd. 

Take  three  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  one  of  flour  (two  if  the 
mustard  seems  very  strong),  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  pour  boiling  water 
on  these  and  mix  into  a  smooth,  thick  paste ;  when  eold  add  vinegar  to 
make  thin  enough  for  use,  and  serve  with  salt. 

Celeby  Saugs. 

Scrape  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long,  let 
stand  in  cold  water  a  half  hour,  then  put  in  boiling  water  enough  to  ooTor, 
and  cook  untU  tender ;  drain  off  water  and  dress  with  butter,  salt»  and  milk 
or  cream*  thickened  with  a  little  flour :  Or,  make  a  dresedng  by  adding  io  a 
oup  of  milk«  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  batter,  and  a  lilfla 


Uro  DRESSINGS. 

bring  just  to  boiling  point,  and  ponroTW 
it  duck. 

iKEBx  Sauce. 

0  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water; 
Sre  witb  the  water  in  a  covered  saucepan, 
isionally  shake  the  ressel,  or  apply  a  gen* 
ir  burning.  If  attention  to  these  partiou- 
;aiii  their  shape  to  a  considerable  extent, 
ftuce  on  the  table.  Boil  from  live  to  seven 
ito  a  deep  dish  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Or,  • 
'  pounds  of  fruit  should  be  stewed  in  one 
in  strained  through  a  Sue  wire  sieve,  and 
ir  thoroughly  stirred  into  the  pulp  thus 
;  after  cooling  it  is  ready  for  use.  When 
ut  sealingi  more  sugar  may  be  added*  but 
r  oranberrv,  flavor. 


SALADS. 


.     ( 


It  is  almost  impossible  to  give  exact  quantities  in  making  salads  owing 
to  the  great  diversity  of  tastes.  Everything  used  in  the  making  of  a  salad 
should  be  of  the  freshest  material.  To  preserve  tlie  crispness  of  celery, 
lettuce,  and  cabbage  throw  them  in  cold  water — ice-water  is  best — ^for  an 
hour.  Never  mix  ant/  salad  with  the  dressing  until  ready  to  serve  it.  In 
preparing  these  dressings,  use  a  silver  or  wooden  fork,,  a  large  soup  plate, 
which  should  be  very  cold,  and  the  best  olive  oil,  cayenne  or  white  pepper^ 
and  good  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Cream  and  melted  butter  may  be  used  in 
the  place  of  oil,  and  is  a  fairly  good  substitute.  Use  very  cold  dishes  to 
serve  it  on  and  if  garnished  prettily  makes  a  very  attractive  as  well  as  one 
of  the  most  wholesome  dishes  on  the  table. 

Mayonnaise  Dbessing.  No.l. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  small  mustardspoonfuls  of  yelloiy 
mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  or  more,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
small  pinches  of  sugar  and  cayenne  pepper.  Rub  all  together  until  light. 
Add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  (sour  cream  is  better),  and  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar  (if  vinegar  is  very  strong  dilute  with  water).  Put  over  fire  until  it 
comes  to  It  boil,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  smooth.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
while  hot  add  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg.  Stir  until  n>elted,  and  when 
cool,. if  liked,  add  salad  oil  to  taste.  Thb  dressing,  if  covered  closely  in  a 
jar  or  tumbler,  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  one  week.  It  may  be  varied  by 
adding  tarragon  vinegar,  whipped  cream  or  onion  juice. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing.  No.  2. 

Yolk  of  one  hard  boiled  egg,  mash  smooth,  then  add  one  rawyclkl 
after  these  are  well  beaten  together  add  slowly  three  tablespooufuls  of  oliv« 
oil,  then  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  mixed  in  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  keep  stirring  slowly  until  it  thickens  to  a  jelly 
This  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  several  days.  Thin  with  cream  the  quantity 
to  be  used  at  a  meal. 

69 


SALADS, 

Plaiit  FniiNca'DiiEssiHo. 

ich  dressiDg  ia  made  of  three  tablespoouruls  of  oil  to  one  of 
ping  saltspoouful  of  salt,  one  even  saltspoonful  of  pepper, 
le  cayenne. 

JEissiMO  FOB  Cold  Slaw  (Cabbnge  Salad.) 

egga,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  add  n  piece  of  butter 
liiut,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
ir  cream,  a  little  pepper,  and  lastly  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
1  these  ingredients  into  a  dish  over  the  fire,  and  cook  like  a 
ioft  custard.    Tbia  is  sufficient  dressing  for  one  quart  of  cut  cabbage. 

Red  Vsoietablb  Salad. 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  beets,  one  pint 
of  uncooked  red  cabbage,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  eight  of  red  vinegar  (that 
in  which  beets  have  been  pickleJ),  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  (unless  the  veg- 
etables have  been  cooked  in  salted  water),  Imlf  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Cut  the  potatoes  in  thin  slices  and  the  beets  fine,  and  slice  the  cabbage  as 
thin  as  possible.  Mix  all  the  ingredients.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place  one 
.  hour  I  then  serve.    Red  cabbage  and  celery  may  be  used  togethon 

Celery  Salad. 

One  boiled  e^g,  one  raw  egg,  one  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  one  teaspoonful 
of  whitu  Hiigur,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  oi>e  saltspoonfulof  pepper,  four  table- 
aptHHit'iils  of  vinegar,  one  tenHpoonful  made  niuatard.  Prepare  a  French 
dresriiiig ;  cut  tlie  celery  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.  Eat  at 
once,  before  the  vinegar  uijnres  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable. 

Potato  Salad. 

One  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice.  Add  one  oupfol  of 
onions  chopped  fine,  one  cnpfnl  of  parsley,  and  one  cupful  of  celery. 

Dretiing  for  f^alad. — Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupfnl  of  vinegar  (If 
very  strong,  dilute  with  wnter),  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  blnck  pepper,  one-half  teaspuonfnl  mustard.  Put 
over  the  fire  and  bring  to  a  scald.  Add  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  table< 
spoonful  of  Butter.    When  cold  pout  oyer  and  mix  well  vtdth  salad. 


/ 


Lbititob  Salaix 

• 

Take  tha  crisp  leaves  of  two  heads  of  lettuce.  Tear  the  leaves  into 
tovavenient  pieces  with  a  silver  fork.  A  chopper  would  bruise  it.  Put  into 
a  bowl,  cover  with  a  French  dressing,  turn  the  whole  upside  down  to  mix  it 
welly  and  serve  immediately.  It  is  usual  to  serve  mayonnaise  with  lettuce 
salad,  but  the  simple  French  dressing,  after  one  has  had  a  hearty  meal^  is 
more  refreshing. 

Wateb  Cbess  Salad. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cress,  shake  off  the  moisture,  and  serve*  At 
table  pick  the  twigs  apart  and  season  with  sugar,  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  and 
oil.  This,  with  crackers  and  cheese,  is  sufficient  for  one  course.  Water 
cress,  dandelions,  and  nasturtium  blossoms  may  be  made  and  served  the 
same  as  lettuce  salad. 

AsPABAGus  Salad. 

Boil  one  pint  of  asparagus  tops  in  salted  boiling  water  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, drain,  throw  into  cold  water  then  dry.  carefully.  Pour  over  them  the 
Frencli  dressing  and  let  stand  ten  minutes  before  serving.  A  salad  of  string 
beans  may  be  made  the  same  way  except  they  should  be  boiled  tliirty  min- 
utes and  let  stand  one  hour. 

Egg  Salad. 

Boil  eight  eggs  twenty  minutes,  then  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Re- 
move the  shells,  cut  into  slices,  lay  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  so  that  one  over- 
laps the  other.  Pour  a  French  dressing,  to  which  you  have  added  one  table- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice  and  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley, 
over  them,  while  the  eggs  are  still  hot.  Stand  away  in  a  cold  pla<ie  for  two 
hours.     Garnish  with  pai*sley  and  serve. 

Cauliflowbb  Salad. 

4 

One  medium-sized  head  of  cauliflower,  half  pint  of  mayonnaise.  Boil 
the  cauliflower  as  directed,  throw  into  cold  water  until  wanted,  then  pick  it 
apart  carefully,  dry  with  a  soft  napkin,  put  in  the  salad  dish,  pour  over  the 
mayonnaise,  let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Salad. 

When  the  chicken  is  cooked  and  cool,  remove  the  skin  and  cut  the  meat 
into  dice.    If  you  want  it  very  nice,  use  only  the  white  meat,  save  the  dark 


SALAl)& 

!;  away  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted.  Wash  and 
into  pieces  a  half  inch  long,  throw  them  into  a 
stand  them  sway  until  wanted.  To  every  pint 
ilery,  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
dry  the  celery  and  mix  with  the  chicken,  dust 
ir,  or  cayenne,  then  mix  with  it  the  mayonnaiite. 
)hed  with  the  white  celery  tips.  One  cup  of 
1  to  every  half  pint  of  mayonnaiHet  when  ready 
sssing  lighter  with  less  of  the  oily  flavor.  The 
\iqaoT  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled  may  he  used  for  soup. 

Veal  Salad, 

Veal  salad  may  be  made  precisely  the  same  as  chicken  salad,  using  cold 
roasi  or  boiled  veal  instead  of  chicken.  ' 

Sabdihb  Salad. 

Mix  one  box  of  sardines  with  two  hard-hoiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  add  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  and  lay  over  the  top  a  few  slices  of  lemon.  Garnish 
with  parley. 

OrsTEB  Salad. 

Boil  twenty  oysters  In  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  drain,  wash  In  cold 
water,  then  dry  and  stand  away  until  very  cold.  When  cold,  mix  with  a 
half-cupful  of  mayonnaise,  and  serve  on  crisp  salad  leaves. 

Salad  of  Oysteb  Crabs. 

One  pint  of  oyster  crabs,  one-half  pint  of  mayonnaise,  one  head  of  let- 
tuce. Throw  the  oyster  crabs  into  boiling  salted  water  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  and  dry  carefully  on  a  soft  towel.  When  ready  to  use,  mix  them 
with  the  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  the  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Wlien  you  get 
the  crahs  iu  glass  jars  already  blanched,  simply  drain  and  wipe  and  they 
are  ready  to  use. 

Matonhaisb  of  Salmon. 

'ree  from  all  bones  and  skin,  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  or  canned  salmon. 
i  half  pint  of  mayonnaise,  mix  together,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  oriap 
leaves. 


SALADS.  Tl 

LoBSTEB  Salad. 

Put  a  lobster  in  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  let  boil  rapidly  toz 
twenty  minutes ;  when  done  it  will  be  a  bright  red  color,  and  should  be  re- 
moved. When  cold,  crack  the  claws  and  twist  off  the  head ;  split  the  body 
lengthwise,  pick  out  the  meat  in  bits,  saving  the  coral  separate.  Cut  up  a 
head  of  lettuce  and  cover  dish  with  it.  Mix  one-half  pint  of  mayonnaise 
and  lobster  together  and  place  on  lettuce.  If  there  is  any  coral,  mash  it 
fine  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  whole.  Garnish  with  white  rings  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Cut  five  small  cucumber  pickles  lengthwise  into  ten  pieces^ 
and  pass  through  these  rings. 

Cbab  Salad. 

Boil  three  dozen  hardshell  crabs  twenty-five  minutes;  drain  and  let 
them  cool  gradually ;  remove  the  upper  shell  and  the  tail,  break  the  re- 
maiuder  apart  and  pick  out  the  meat  carefully.  The  large  elaws  contain  a 
dainty  morsel,  and  the  creamy  fat  attached  to  the  upper  shell  should  not  be 
overlooked.  Line  a  salad-bowl  with  the  small  white  leaves  of  two  heads  of 
lettuce,  add  the  crab  meat,  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  garnish  with  crab 
claws  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Conrad's  Svitebt  Potato  Salad. 

Boil  three  large  sweet  potatoes.  Cut  into  half  inch  squares.  Cut  into 
very  small  pieces  two  stalks  of  celery.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  over  a  French  dressing  made  as  follows:  Three  tablespoonfuls  of 
salad  oil,  two  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  saltspoonful 
each  of  salt  and  pepper.  Let  salad  stand  in  refrigerator  two  hours.  Gar* 
nbh  with  pickles,  jutted  olives  and  parsley* 

Sabdins  Salad. 

For  one  large  box  of  sardines,  take  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  drain  off  the 
oil  from  the  fish,  remove  backbone,  tail  and  skin,  and  mix  thoroughly  with 
the  eggs,  minced  fine ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  plain,  with  vin* 
egar,  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

CuouMBBB  Salad. 

Two  fresh  cucumbers,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Pare  and  slice 
the  cucumbers  very  thin,  soak  them  in  cold  water  one  hour,  then  drain  and 
dry.  Put  them  in  your  salad  bowl,  sprinkle  them  with  the  salt  and  pepper- 
and  pour  over  the  vinegar.    Serve  at  once. 


SALADS. 
Hau  Salad. 
],  fat  and  lean  tt^ether,  chop  It  antll  tt  la  thrift 
ices  are  about  the  size  of  small  peas ;  then  add  to 
celery  cut  fine ;  if  oelery  is  out  of  season,  lettuce 
ah  thickly  with  lettuce-leaves  and  fill  with  tlie 
Make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  oold  slaw  and 

lAQE  AKD  Celery  Salad. 
cabhnge  and  chop  fine,  two  bunches  celery.  Mix 
D  teaspoonfula  of  sugar,  one  teaoiipful  of  cream, 
-d,  one  tablespooiifu]  of  butter  and  seasoning  of 
lilie  dressing  and  mix  with  cabbage  and  celeiy. 
led  eggs  chopped  fine< 

Tomato  Salad. 
Pare  and  slice  the  tomatoes.  Set  them  in  a  cool  place,  on  Ice  if  possi* 
ble.  One  e^  beaten  very  light,  two  teaspoonfula  of  sugar,  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfnls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  pinch  of  cay- 
'  enn*  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  adding  the  oil  last.  Pour  over  the  tomatoea 
and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 


VEGETABLES. 


When  it  Is  possible,  all  green  vegetable^  should  be  freshly  gathered, 
masiied  vreU  in  cold  water  and  cooked  in  freshly  boiled  water.  ! 

Do  not  cook  your  vegetables  too  long  as  it  is  injurious.  Let  them  be 
thoroughly  done  until  tender,  and  then  served  at  once.  When  vegetables 
are  not  entirely  fresh  soak  them  for  an  hour  in  cold  water ;  do  not  add  salt 
as  it  h&rdens  the  tissues. 

Peas  and  beans  are  the  most  nutritious  of  all  vegetable  substances. 
The  potato,  next  to  wheat  is  the  most  important  food  derived  from  the  vege- 
table kingdom.  In  the  spring  the  sprouts  should  be  rubbed  off  as  soon  as 
they  appear,  or  they  will  exhaust  the  starch  and  make  the  potato  less  mealy 
and  nutritious.  As  the  nutritious  part  of  the  potato  lies  near  the  skin,  pare 
it  very  sparingly  if  you  do  it  at  all. 

Asparagus  on  Toast. 

Scrape  the  stalks  till  they  are  clean ;  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  tie  them  up  in  small  bundles ;  cut  off  the  tough  white  ends,  leaving 
enough  to  serve  as  a  handle  for  the  green  part ;  put  them  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  after  it  boils  twenty  nlinutes. 
When  they  are  tender  at  the  stalk,  which  will  be  in  about  thirty  minutes, 
they  are  done  enough,  take  them  up  immediately  and  drain.  While  the 
asparagus  is  boiling,  toast  slices  of  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  brown 
delicately  on  both  sides;  dip  it  lightly  in  the  liquor  the  asparagus  was 
boiled  in,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  ;  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter^ 
add  one  of  flour.  After  mixing  well,  add  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which  th« 
asparagus  was  boiled,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  theasparagui 
which  has  been  placed  upon  the  toast,  heads  all  one  way» 

Stewed  Asparagus. 

Cut  the  asparagus  in  incli  long  pieces,  leaving  out  all  the  tough  pare. 
Boil  half  an  hour  aud  drain.  Now  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  boil  up  once  and  servs.. 


AsPABAQUs  Trrra  Eooa. 

isparagus  twenly  minutea ;  out  off  the  tender  topg  and 
I- plate,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  well.  Beat  up  four  eggs 
roth  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
I  Bait  to  taste.  Pour  evenly  over  the  asparagus  mix- 
lutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  set.    Very  good. 

-  ASFABAGUS  OUELBT. 

ie  asparagus  uutil  it  is  tender  i  ctiop  It  verjr  fine  >  mix 
wibu  lb  buo  JU1K.H  UL  live  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.    Fry  and  serve  hot. 

LntA  Beans. 

Cover  the  beans  with  freehly-boiled  soft  water,  and  boil  thirty  minutes 
or  until  tender;  drain,  and  add  a  half  oupful  of  boiling  cream,  salt  and 
pepper,  or  seasoning  and  a  little  butter.  A  sprig  of  mist  may  be  boiled 
with  tiie  beans,  and  removed  before  serving. 

Lima  Beanb  (Dried). 
Soak  the  beans  in  luke  warm  water  overnight.  Drain  off  this  water 
In  the  morning,  and  cover  with  fresh  luke  warm  water.  Two  hours  before 
dinner-time,  drain  again,  cover  them  with  boiling  soft  water,  and  boil  thirty 
minutes;  driUn  again,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  loft  water,  add  salt  and  boil 
until  tender.  When  done,  drain  them,  dredge  with  fiour ;  add  butter,  a 
half-pint  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  or,  they  may  be  served  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

BiTTTBR  Beaks. 
Cook  the  same  as  lima  Beans. 

STitma  Beaks. 
Break  off  tbe  end  that  grew  to  the  vine,  drawing  off  at  the  same  time 
the  string  cpon  the  edge ;  repeat  the  same  process  from  the  other  end ;  cut 
them  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long,  and  throw  in  cold 
water  for  half  an  hour,  and  boil  them  in  enough  water  to  eovrr  them. 
They  usually  require  one  hour's  boiling ;  but  this  depends  upon  their  age 
and  freshness.  Drain,  add  pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
a  half  a  cup  of  cream :  if  you  have  not  tbe  cream,  add  more  butter  to  milk. 


mstEtAdiftai 


77 


SxsiKa  BsAifrS)  Sautbi 

String  tender  beans  and  cut  them  into  inch  lengths ;  cool  In  slightlj 
salted  boiling  water  for  one-half  hour ;  drain  them  and  add  one  large  table* 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  cream  or  milk  with  a  little  thickening 
of  flour,  and  salt  and  pepper ;  toss  and  shake  five  minutes  over  a  hot  fire, 
sad  serve. 

POBK  AND  BbANS. 

Pick  over  a  quart  of  beans  and  soak  tl^em  overnight ;  in  the  morning 
wash  and  drain  in  another  water,  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a 
teaspoon  of  soda  ;  boil  about  thirty  minutes  or  until  done,  drain,  and  put 
in  an  earthen  pot,  salt,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.  When  the 
beans  are  in  the  pot,  put  in  the  centre  half  to  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
salt  pork  with  the  rind  sv^^ored  in  slices  or  squares,  and  uppermost ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  if  needed;  cover  all  over  with  hot  water,  and  bake 
six  hours  or  longer  in  a  moderate  oven,  adding  hot  water  as  needed  |  they 
cannot  be  baked  too  long.  Keep  covered  so  that  thej  will  not  bum  on  the 
top,  but  remove  cover  an  hour  or  two  before  serving,  to  brown  the  top  and 
crisp  the  pork. 

Gbbbns. 

A  peck  of  greens  is  8u£Scient  for  a  family  of  six,  such  as  dandelions, 
cowslips,  burdock,  chiccory  and  other  greens.  All  greens  should  be  care- 
fully examined  and  thoroughly  washed  through  several  waters  until  they 
are  entirely  free  from  sand.  The  addition  of  a  handful  of  salt  to  each  pan 
of  water  used  in  washing  the  greens  will  free  them  from  insects  and  worms, 
or  allow  them  to  stand  in  salted  water  for  half  hour  or  longer.  When 
ready  to  boil  the  greens,  put  them, into  a  large  pot  half  full  of  boiling  water, 
with  a  handful  of  salt,  and  boil  them  steadily  until  the  stalks  are  tender  ; 
this  will  be  in  from  five  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  maturity  of  the 
greens ;  but  remember  that  long- continued  boiling  wastes  the  tender  sub- 
stances of  the  leaves,  for  this  reason  it  is  best  to  cut  away  any  tough  stalks 
before  beginning  to  cook  the  greens.  As  soon  as  they  are  tender,  drain 
tliem  in  a  colander,  chop  them  a  little  and  return  them  to  the  fire  long 
enough  to  season  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  vinegar  may  be  added 
if  it  is  liked ;  the  greens  should  be  served  as  soon  as  they  are  hot.  All  kinds 
of  greens  can  be  cooked  in  this  nianne*' 

Beet  Greeks. 

Young  beets — loora  and  tops — make  choice  greens;  wash  carefully,  re- 
moving any  withered  leaves,  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  one  hour ;  drain 


der,  Bprlnkle  with  pspper,  place  lamps  of  buttet  od  top,  and 
set  in  a  hot  OTeo  one  minuta  hefore  servingt 

Baicbd  Beets. 
Beets  Tetain  their  sugary  delicate  flavor  to  perfection  if  tliey  are  batced  in- 
stead of  boiled.    Turn  them  frequently  while  hi  the  oven,  using  a  knife,  as  tiie 
fork  allows  the  juice  to  run  out.     When  doue,  remove  the  skin,  and  serve 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  on  the  slices. 

Stewhd  Bbgts. 
Boil  them  first,  and  then  scrape  and  slice  them.     Put  them  Into  a  stew* 
^n  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  boiled  onion  and  paruley 
chopped  fine,  and  a  little  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.     Set  the  pan  oa  the  firei 
and  let  the  beets  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

CUBAMBD  CaBBAOB. 
Cut  the  cabbage  In  two,  remove  the  hard  stock,  and  cut  the  remainder 
In  small  pieces,  let  stand  Id  cold  water  one  hour,  tie  in  thin  netting  or  piece 
of,  muslin,  and  boil  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  remove,  and 
serve  in  a  dish  with  drawn  butter  or  cream  dressing  poured  over  it.  If  the 
oabbf^e  has  not  been  frosted,  boil  two  hours. 

Fbihd  Cabbaqb. 
Out  the  cabbage  very  fine,  aa  for  slaw ;  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well,  and 
let  stand  five  minutes.  Have  an  iron  kettio  smoking  hot,  drop  one  tnble- 
spoonful  of  nice  lard  or  fat  into  it,  then  the  cabbage,  stirring  briskly  until 
quite  tender.  To  one  half  cup  sweet  cream  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vin- 
egar, after  the  cream  has  been  well  stirred,  and  taken  from  the  stove.  Pour 
over  the  cabbage  and  serve  immediately.  Wlien  properly  done  it  is  ex- 
'  oellent,  and  there  Is  no  offensive  odor  from  cooking. — Miat  Dora. 

HBiDBLBSitQ  Cabbage. 
Take  two  small,  solid  heads  of  hard  red  cabbage  ;  divide  tliem  In  halves 
fi-om  orowa  to  stem;  lay  the  split  side  down,  and  cut  downwards  In  thin 
slices,  making  narrow  strips  or  shreds.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  clean  drip- 
pings, butter  or  any  nice  fat  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  hot,  put  in  cabbage,  a 
t«aspoon  of  salt,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  one  onion,  in 
whioh  thru  or  four  whole  cloves  have  been  stuck,  buried  in  the  middit ;  boil 
'  two  hours  and  a  half  j  if  fosted,  less  time;  stirring  often  to  keep  from  burc 


VEGETABLES.  79 

Ing.    If  it  beoomea  too  dry  and  is  in  danger  of  soorching^  add  a  very  litUe 
water.     This  ia  good. — Mrs.  L.  IS.  Willistoti^  Heidelberg^  Oermany* 

Sauerkraut. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  small,  clean  keg  with  green  cabbage 
leaves.  Shred  your  cabbage  and  put  a  layer  of  three  inches  in  the  bottom 
of  keg,  then  sprinkle  four  ounces  of  good  salt  over  it  and  pound  down  well. 
Then  another  layer  of  cabbage  and  salt  and  so  on  until  keg  is  full.  Put  a 
a  board  on  top  and  on  this  a  heavy  weight  and  stand  in  a  moderately  warm 
place  to  ferment.  When  the  liquor  rises  over  the  cover,  skim  oflf  the  scum, 
and  stand  the  keg  in  a  cool,  dry  celhir,  and  it  is  ready  to  use.  When  yqu 
use  it,  wash  it  in  warm  water  and  boil  it  with  corned  beef  or  salt  pork. — 
Cousin  Estlieu 

Cold  Slaw. 

For  one  small  head  of  cabbage,  take  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  vinegaiv 
one  cup  of  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  mustard,  sugar,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this  dressing  over  the  cabbage  as  soon  as  it  boils,  but 
do  not  let  the  cabbage  cook ;  cover  the  dish  aiid  set  aside.  This  makes  a 
delicious  dressing  for  tomatoes  or  lettuce. — Miss  Dora. 

Scalloped  Cauliflowbr. 

Boil  until  tender,  clip  into  neat  clusters,  and  pack— *the  stems  down- 
ward — in  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Beat  up  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  to  a 
soft  paste  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  six  of  cream  or 
milk ;  season  with  pepper  and  «ilt,  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  with  this 
cover  the  cauliflower.  Cover  the  dish  doselyt  and  bake  six  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven ;  brown  in  five  more,  and  serve  very  hot  in  the  dish  in  which 
they  were  baked. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

Three  good  sized  carrots,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  miUc, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pare  and  quarter  the  carrots.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  them  with 
boiling  water ;  add  the  salt,  and  let  them  boil  one  hour  and  a  half.  When 
done,  drain,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  stand  over  boiling  water  to  keep 
warm.  Now  put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  let  it  melt ;  add  the  floury  and 
mix.  Do  not  brown.  Now  add  the  milk,  salt,  and  pepper.  Stir  until  H 
boils,  and  is  smooth*    Pour  over  the  carrots^  aud  eerve 


-TEGETABLE& 
Celert. 

■ape  the  Btallcs,  selecting  those  that  are  vhite  aod 
f  in  ice-cold  water  until  they  are  wanted  for  the 
a  celery  glass ;  pass  between  the  oyeterB  and  the 
that  are  not  attractive  on  the  table  may  be  used  for 

Gblbbt  ait  Jus. 

nt  in  picoea  one  inch  long  such  pieces  of  celery  aa 

e  table.    Fnt  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boil- 

[loonful  of  salt  and  boil  thirty  minutes.     Stir  one 

MuioapuuuLui  ui  uubbdi  in  a  frying-pan  until  a  dark  brown.     Then  add  to  it 

one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  rub  until  smooth.    Draio  the  celery,  and  add 

a  half  pint  of  the  liquor  to  the  browned  butter.    Stir  continually  until  it 

boils.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  celery  in  heated  dish,  and  pour  the 

Huoe  over  it.    Serve  hot. 

SteWbd  Cklbbt. 
-  Wash  and  scrape  the  celery  clean,  cut  in  one  inch  lengths  and  throw  fn 
cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Boil  thirty  minutes  in  salted  Vater,  drain  in 
a  colander,  throw  ia  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  to  whiten  the  celery. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  water  in  which  the 
celery  was  boiled ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  the  celery  to  this  sauce, 
stir  notfl  H  ts  thoroughly  hot  and  serve. 

Celerz  Root. 
Pare  tiie  roots,  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  soak  a  half  hour.    Put 
them,  with  a  UtUa  salt  in  boiling  water  and  boil  until  tender.    When  donsr 
dndn*  ud  eat  Into  slices.    Serve  with  cream  sauce  poured  over  them. 

CoBN  Boiled  on  tbe  Cob. 
Oom  ■boold  be  cooked  as  quickly  as  possible  after  picking,  as  It  soon 
loses  its  sweetness.  If  neoessary  to  keep  overnight,  spread  it  out  singly  on 
a  cold  otllar  floor.  When  ready  to  oook,  remove  the  husks  and  every  thread 
of  silk.'  Put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  rapidly,  after  it  begins  to 
boll,  five  minutes.  To  eat:  Score  every  row  of  grains  with  a  sharp  knife, 
spread  lightly  with  hotter,  dust  with  salt,  aod  with  the  teeth  press  out  the 
oentT*  of  the  grain,  leaving  the  hull  on  the  cob.  Thus  eaten  it  will  oanse  no 
IvoiiMe,  aa  Hm  hull  Is  the  only  indigestible  part. 


YE6ETABLE&  81 

COSN  PUDDIKG. 

One  doien  ears  of  oorn  grated,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  taUe- 
epoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  batter  and  a  little 
flour.  If  the  oorn  is  quite  young  a  little  less  milk  will  be  needed.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes. 

Obbbsh  Cobh  Fbittsbs. 

Grate  the  oorn  and  allow  to  evexy  cupful,  one  egg,  a  tablespoonfiiL  ot 
milk,  and  a  little  salt  and  butter ;  stir  all  together^  and  thioken  with  a  little 
flour.  They  may  be  fried  in  hot  lard  or  cooked  on  a  griddle  the  same  as 
batter  cakes. 

CoBN  Oysters  ob  Fbittebs. 

Score  and  press  the  corn,  and  to  every  pint  of  pulp  allow  two  eggs,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  dash  of  black  pepper. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately ;  add  first  the  yolks  to  the  corn,  and  then  the  whites, 
add  the  salt,  pepper  and  flour ;  mix  again.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard 
or  butter  in  a  frying-pan ;  when  hot,  drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  it, 
when  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  the  other.  Serve  very  hot  for 
breakfast  or  as  a  side  dish  for  dinner. 

Succotash. 

Take  one  pint  of  shelled  green  lima  beans,  wash,  cover  with  hot  water, 
let  stand  for  five  minutes,  pour  oS  water,  and  place  beans  in  hot  water  over 
fire ;  boll  fifteen  minutes.  Prepare  six  good-sized  ears  of  com,  by  cutting 
down  carefully,  add  to  beans ;  boil  half  an  hour,  add  pepper,  salt  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Watch  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Or,  to  oook  with 
meat,  boil  one  pound  of  salt  pork  two  hours,  add  beans,  cook  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  oorn,  omitting  butter. 

To  Can  Cobk. 

Cut  oorn  from  the  cob.  To  five  quarts  of  com  add  one  pint  of  fine 
salt.  Boil  one  half  hour  and  make  air  tight  in  tin  cans.  BeforlD  cooking 
when  going  to  use,  rinse  once  in  clear,  cold  water. — Oausin  Esther* 

WijLTBP  Dandelions. 

Use  the  first  shoots  of  the  dandelions.  They  are  not  fit  for  food  after 
they  blonom,  as  they  then  become  bitter  and  stringy.  Cut  off  the  ^oota, 
piek  tbem  over  oarefully,  and  wash  well  in  several  waters.    Take  a  handful 

f 


^ 


VEGETABLES. 

■  _„„_  -  ■"'  ^^'^  *  sharp  knife  Into  email  pieces,  and  so  oon. 

tiiiu*  until  you  liave  them  all  cut.  Beat  one  egg  until  light,  add  to  it  n 
,  hiUf  cupful  of  cream,  and  stir  over  the  Are  until  it  thickens ;  then  add  a  piece 

of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnat,  two  tableapooafula  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper 
'  to  tute.    Now  put  the  dandelions  into  this,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the/ 

ate  all  wilted  and  tender.    Serve  hot. 

Stupfbd  Eggplant. 
Wa«b  an  eggplant,  out  in  into  halves,  and  scoop  out  the  flesh,  leaving 
a  ButBciantlj  thick  rind  to  hold  It  in  shape.  Chop  fine  the  portion  scooped 
out,  and  mix  with  it  an  equal  amount  of  chopped  bread,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, and  a  dash  of  cajeone,  and  a  little  minced  ham  if  you  have  it.  StuS 
ea«h  half  of  the  hull  with  the  mixture ;  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each, 
and  bake  thirty  mioutes  or  until  done.  Minced  veal  or  chicken  in  the  place 
tt  ham,  is  equally  aa  good,  and  many  prefer  it. 

Fbied  Eogplant. 
Pare  the  eggplant,  and  cut  in  slices  an  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  each  slice  with 
■alt  and  pepper.  Beat  an  egg  lightly,  and  add  to  it  a  tnblespoooful  of  boil- 
,  log  water,  dip  each  slice  first  in  this,  and  then  in  bread-crumbs.  Put  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  dripping  in  a  frying-pan  ;  when  hot,  brown  the  slices 
00  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  the  other.  As  the  fat  ia  consumed,  add 
more,  traiting  each  time  for  it  to  heat  before  putting  in  the  eggplant.  Drain 
OQ  broVD  paper,  and  serve  vary  hot.  Tomato  catsup  should  be  served  with 
it. 

DUTOHBD  LbTTUOE. 
Wash  carefully  two  heads  of  lettuce,  separate  the  leaves,  and  tear  eaeh 
leaf  in  two  or  three  pieces.  Cut  a  quarter  pound  of  ham  or  baoon  Into  dice, 
and  fry  until  brown ;  while  hot,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat 
.  one  egg  until  light,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  oream,  then  add  it  to 
.the  bam,  stir  over  the  fire  one  minute  until  it  thickens,  and  pour,  boiling 
hot,over  the  lettuce;  mix  carefully  with  a  fork,  and  serve  immediately. 

MUBHBOOMS. 

The  skin  of  the  good  mushroom  peels  off  easily.  Those  with  yellow  or 
white  ^Its,  and  those  which  grow  in  low,  damp,  shady  places,  or  around  de- 
cayed stomps  of  old  trees,  or  any  other  decayed  matter,  are  to  be  avoided. 
The  good  mushrooms  have  invariably  an  agreeable  smell,  while  the  poison- 
OUB  have  a  rank  putrid  smell.    It  ia  always  safe  to  use  the  oaoned  mottle 


Y£GETABL£S.  88 


Bocms,  which  are  courenient  and  cheap,  but  tough  and  indigestible,  and  we 
caution  those  who  eat  them  to  masticate  diligently. 

Stewed  Mushrooms. 

Time,  twentj^-one  mmutes.  Button  mushrooms,  salt  to  taste,  a  little 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Choose  buttons  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  them  clean  and  peel  off  the  skin  ; 
put  them  in  a  stewpau  with  a  little  water,  and  let  them  stew  very  gently  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Add  salt  to  taste,  work  in  a  little  flour  and  butter,  to 
make  the  li([uor  about  as  thick  as  cream,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Wiien  you  are  ready  to  dish  it  up,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  the 
yolk  of  an  egg ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and 
serve.  Stewed  button  mushrooms  are  very  nice,  either  in  fish  stews  or  ra- 
gouts, or  served  apart  to  eat  with  fish.  Another  way  of  doing  them  is  to  stew 
them  in  milk  and  water  (after  they  are  rubbed  white),  add  to  them  a  little 
veal  gravy,  mace,  aud  salt,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  cream  or  the  yolks 
of  eggs. 

Canned  MusHnooMS. 

Canned  mushrooms  may  be  served  with  good  efiTect  with  gsjne  and  even 
with  beefsteak  if  prepared  in  this  way :  Open  the  can  and  pour  off  every 
drop  of  the  liquid  found  there ;  let  the  mushrooms  drain,  then  put  them  in  a 
granite  saucepan  with  a  little  cream  and  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  let  them 
simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes)  and  when  taken  from  fire  add  well  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  when  the  meat  is  on  the  platter  pour  the  mushrooms  over  it. 

Onions  Stewed. 

The  white  silver  skins  are  the  best  species.  To  boil  them  peel  off  the 
outside,  cut  off  the  ends,  cover  them  with  boiling  water.  Let  them  stand  two 
minutes ;  then  turn  off  that  water,  pour  on  more  boiling  water,  salted  a  little, 
and  boil  slowly  till  tender,  whioh  will  be  in  thirty  or  forty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  their  size  ;  when  done,  drain  them  quite  dry,  add  a  teacupful  cream« 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  tablospoonful  of  flour  stirred  to  a  cream.  An 
excellent  way  to  peel  onions  so  as  not  to  affect  the  eyes  is  to  take  a  pan  full 
of  wa^er,  and  hold  and  peel  them  under  vrater. 

■ 

FbIBD  OillONS. 

Cover  the  onions  with  cold  water  and  peel.  Slice  them  orosawlst, 
MTf  r  with  boiling  water  to  whi^  add  a  little  salt.    Boil  twenty  mhiutesi 


VEGETABLES. 

drain,   a(ld  a   lar^  (ablespoonful  of  butter  and  try  for  a  lialf-tioar,  stirring 
frequently.     Seasoo  and  serve. 

i  Salsttt  OB  Otsteb  Plant  Cakes. 

One  bunch  ojater  plant ;  boil  and  mash  ;  one  pint  aour  milk,  one-half 
laaapoouful  of  soda,  flour  to  make  a  batter;  add  two  eggs,  beaten,  and  the 
Mlaifj  i  drop  in  spoonfuls  iu  hot  lard  and  fry. 

Boiled  Paesnips  with  Ckeam  Sauce. 
If  the  parsnips  are  young,  scrape  and  throw  into  cold  vater;if  old,  pare 
sod  cut  ia  quarters.  Pat  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  boil  un- 
til tender  (if  young,  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  if  old,  one  and  a  quarter 
'  houis).  When  done,  drain  them,  lay  them  on  a  heated  dish,  heads  all 
one  way,  cover  with  cream  sauce  or  drawn  butter,  and  serve  with  corned 
beef  or  boiled  salt  fish. 

Grbeh  Feas. 

Shell  the  peas  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Put  in  boiling  water  just 
enough  to  cover  them  well,  and  keep  them  from  burning ;  boil  from  twenty 
minutea  to  half  an  .hour,  when  the  liquor  should  be  nearly  boiled  out ;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  good  allowance  of  butter  or  cream  ;  serve 
very  hot.  This  is  a  very  much  better  way  than  cooking  in  a  larger  quantity 
of  water,  and  dn^ning  o£F  the  liquor,  as  that  diminishes  the  sweetness,  and 
muoh  of  the  fine  flavor  of  the  peas  is  lost.  The  salt  should  never  be  put  in 
the  peas  before  they  are  tender,  unless  very  young,  as  it  tenda  to  harden 
them. 

;  Boiled  Potatoes. 

If  your  potatoes  are  wilted,  soak  them  a  couple  of  hours  in  cold  water 
before  'cooking,  and  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water.  If  not  wilted,  put  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  place  over  a  moderate  fire  to  boil 
slowly  till  almost  done,  then  throw  in  a  half  cap  of  cold  water  which  will 
chill  the  Burfaoe,  by  this  you  will  make  the  potato  mealy  throughout.  Cook 
until  you  can  pieroe  them  easily  with  a  fork.  When  done  drain  qff  aU  tfas 
water,  ancover  the  boiler,  sprinkle  the  potatoes  with  salt  to  absorb  the 
moisture,  and  stand  on  back  of  stove  to  dry,  shaking  them  occasionally  to 
expose  every  part  of  the  potato  to  the  air.  Bemove  the  skins  quickly  and 
iervfl  in  an  unoovered  dish.    Potatoes  an  Inor*  vboluome  baked  tluui 


TEGETABLES.  85 

Potato  Gboqitettbs. 

Take  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potato,  season  wtth  a  pinoh  of  salti 
pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
one  yolk,  and  work  all  together  thoroughly  with  some  minced  parsley,  make 
it  into  small  balls  slightly  flattened,  dip  them  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg, 
then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs ;  fry  them  a  light  brown  all  over,  turning  them 
gently  as  may  be  necessary.  When  they  are  donCf  lay  them  on  brown 
paper  or  a  hair  sieve*  to  drain  all  fat  oCF. 

Scalloped    Potatoes. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  or  cut  them  in  dice.  Melt  two  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  butter  in  a  spider,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  cupfuU 
of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until  ii  boils.  Put  a  layer  of  thit 
sauce  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layei 
of  sauce  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  breadcrumbs  over  the  top, 
and  put  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes  or  until  brown*  Serve  in  the  baking 
dislL 

Tomato  Toast. 

Run  a  quart  of  stewed  ripe  tomatoes  through  a  colander,  place  in  a 
porcelain  stewpan,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  and  sugar  to  taste } 
cut  slices  of  bread  thin,  brown  on  both  sides,  butter,  and  lay  on  a  platter, 
and  just  as  the  bell  rings  for  tea  add  a  pint  of  good  sweet  cream  to  the 
Uewed  tomatoes,  and  pour  them  over  toast. 

# 
Raw  Tomatoes. 

Do  not  loosen  the  skins  with  scalding  water.  It  impairs  the  flavor  and 
destroys  the  crispness.  Pare  with  a  keen  knife,  slice  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  stirring  a  piece  of  ice  rapidly  around 
in  tlie  dressing  before  pouring  it  over  the  tomatoes,  and  setting  the  dish  in 
the  refrigerator  until  wanted.  There  is  no  salad,  excepting  perhaps,  lettuce 
and  cucumbers,  that  is  more  improved  by  the  use  of  ice  than  tomatoes. 

Curried  Tomatoes. 

One  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes  or.  one  quart  can,  one  cup  of  rice,  one 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  salt  to  taste.  Wash  the  rice  through  several 
cold  waters.  Add  the  curry  powder  and  salt  to  the  tomatoes;  mix  well. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  tomatoes  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish,  then  a  layer  of 
ibe  incouked  rioe,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  so  ou  until  all  is  used,  iiav- 


VEGETABLES. 

ind  add  one  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  and  stir  until  it  bolb; 
ttj  and  add  carefully.    Let  boil  and  serre  at  once. 

Stbaubd  Crackers. 
Use  the  Trenton  or  old -fashioned  water  crackers.    Put  a  dozen  crackers 
in  an  agate  stewpan  with  a  half  teacup  of  cold  water.    Cover  and  set  on 
back  part  of  stove  till  crackers  swell  double  their  size  and  are  soft.     Make 
ft  cream  dressing  and  pour  over  them  when  i-ead/  to  serve  on  table. 


EGG& 


Egos  ara  highly  nutritious,  pleasing  to  the  palate,  and  easy  of  digestionf 
And  are  said  to  contain  all  that  which  is  required  for  the  sustenance  of  the 
human  body*  So  that  they  should  form  part  of  the  daily  bill  of  fare  of  every 
family. 

The  fresher  eggs  are,  the  more  wholesome,  though  new-laid  eggs  require 
to  be  cooked  longer  than  others.  Eggs  over  a  week  old  will  do  to  fry,  but 
not  to  boil.    Do  not  mix  eggs  in  a  tin ;  always  use  earthenware. 

To  preserve  eggs,  it  is  only  necessary  to  close  the  pores  of  the  shell. 
This  may  be  done  by  varnishing  or  by  dipping  in  melted  suet,  and  then 
packing  them  in  salt  with  the  small  end  down. 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs. 

The  fresher  laid  the  eggs  are,  the  better.  Put  them  in  bpiling  water ; 
if  you  only  wish  the  white  set,  about  two  minutes'  boiling  is  enough.  A  new* 
laid  egg  will  take  three  minutes,  *if  you  wish  the  yolk  set.  Another  method 
is  to  place  boiling  water  in  a  granite  kettle,  set  on  back  of  the  range 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil ;  put  into  it  carefully  as  many  eggs  as 
needed,  and  let  stand  ten  minutes ;  all  becomes  cooked,  but  not  hard.  This 
method  is  preferable  as  boiling  toughens  the  egg  and  therefore  makes  it 
harder  to  digest. 

Poached  ob  Dropped  Eggs. 

Strictly  fresh  eggs  only  are  fit  to  poach.  The  beauty  of  a  poached  egg 
Is  for  the  yolk  to  be  seen  blushing  through  the  white,  which  should  be  just 
sufficiently  hardened  to  form  a  veil  for  the  yolk.  Have  the  water  well 
salted,  and  not  let  it  boil  hard.  Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  saucer, 
and  slip  gently  into  the  water;  when  nicely  done,  remove  with  a  skimmer, 
and  lay  each  egg  upon  a  small  thin  square  of  buttered  toast ;  then  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Eggs  may  be  poached  round  like  balls  by  dropping 
them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Open  gem  rings  are  nice  placed  in  the 
water  and  an  egg  dropped  into  each  ring. 


s- 


60  SGGS. 

Fried  Eggs. 

Break  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  into  a  saucer,  and  then  slide  them  oare- 
fully  off  into  a  frying-pan  of  lard  or  drippings,  dipping  over  the  eggs  the  hot 
grease  in  spoonfuls,  or  turn  them  over,  frying  both  sides  \vithout  breakiiig 
them.    They  require  about  three  minutes'  cooking. 

Pickled  Eggs. 

After  boiling  hard  and  removing  shells,  place  in  a  jar  of  beet  pickles, 
and  the  white 'will  become  red ;  cut  in  two  in  serving. 

Shirbed  Eggs. 

Set  into  the  oven  until  quite  hot  a  common  white  dish,  large  enough  to 
hold  six  eggs,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  each.  Melt  in  it  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  breaking  the  eggs  carefully  in  a  saucer,  one  at  a  time,  slip  them  into 
the  hot  dish;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  allow  them  to  cook  five  minutes. 
Adding  a  tablespoonf ul  of  cream  for  every  two^  eggs,  when  the  eggs  are  first 
slipped  in,  is  a  great  improvement.  This  is  far  more  delicate  than  fried 
«ggs. 

Egg  sub  lb  Plat. 

Break  one  egg  into  each  basin,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks. 
Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the 
yolks  are  set.    Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

Egg  Toast. 

Beat  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  thoroughly ;  put  two  table* 
spoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  melt  slowly ;  then  pour  in  the  eggs 
and  heat,  without  boiling,  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly ;  add  a  little 
salt,  and  when  hot  pour  on  slices  of  nicely  browned  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Souffle. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  three  tablespoon fuls 
of  pounded  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour.  Milk  enough  to  make  a  batter ;  half  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow» 
der.    Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  quick  oven  and  serve  hot. 

Deviled  Eggs. 

Boil  eggs  hard ;  when  cold,  remove  shells,  and  divide  eggs  in  halves 
lengthwise,  take  out  the  yolks  and  rub  smooth  in  a  bowl,  adding  to  taste 
salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  a  little  melted  butter.    Cut  a  small  piece  off  ot 


EGGS.  91 

each  half  white,  thus  formiug  a  cup.  Into  these  cups  place  the  mixturOfand 
serve.  Or  the.  yolks  may  be  chopped  Hue  with  cold  chicken,  lamb,  veal, 
ham,  or  any  tender,  roasted  meat;  or  with  any  salad,  as  parsley,  onion, 
celery,  or  with  grated  cheese,  a  little  olive  oil,  drawn  butter,  flavored.  Fill 
the  cavity  in  the  egg  with  either  of  these  mixtures,  or  any  similar  prepara-* 
tion.  Press  the  halves  together,  roll  twice  in  beaten  egg  and  bread-crumbs, 
and  dip  into  boiling  lard.  When  the  color  rises  delicately,  drain  them  and 
they  are  ready  for  use. 

Plain  Omelet. 

Give  three  eggs  twelve  vigorous  beats  with  a  fork.  Put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  in  a  very  smooth  frying-pan  over  the  fire  and  when  melted,  turn 
in  the  eggs  and  shake  over  a  hot  fire.  When  "set "  season,  roll,  and  turn  out 
on  a  hot  dish. 

Bread  Omelet. 

Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  piece  ot 
butter  size  of  walnut,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  separately.  Add  to 
the  yolks  the  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  the  bread  crumbs.  Now  stir  into  this 
carefully  the  beaten  whites  and  mix  very  lightly.  Use  a  very  smooth  frying- 
pan;  as  soon  as  hot  turn  in  the  mixture  gently,  and  set  it  over  a  clear  fire, 
being  very  careful  not  to  burn ;  shake  occasionally  to  see  that  the  omelet 
does  not  stick.  Now  stand  your  frying-pan  in  the  oven  for  a  moment  to  set 
the  middle  of  the  omelet.  When  done,  toss  it  over  on  a  warm  platter  to 
bring  the  brown  side  of  the  omelet  uppermost ;  or  it  may  be  folded  in  half 
and  then  turned  out  in  the  centre  of  the  platter.  Serve  immediately  or  it 
will  fall. 

Ham,  Tongue,  Chicken  or  Jelly  Omelet. 

Make  precisely  as  above ;  but  before  folding  over  scatter  thickly  over 
the  surface  some  minced  ham,  tongue,  or  seasoned  chicken,  slip  your  broad 
knife  under  one  side  of  the  omelet  and  double  in  half,  enclosing  the  meat. 
Serve  upon  a  hot  dish. 

Rice  Omelet. 

Take  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  turn  over  it  a  cupful  of  warm  milk, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper;  mix  well,  then  add  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  a  tablespoonfuf  of 
butter  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  pour  in  the  omelet  and 
set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  cooked  through,  fold  it  double, 
turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once.     Very  good. 


Chbesb  Oueleit. 
e  eggs,  and  add  to  them  &  tablespoonful  of  milk  and  a 
-ated  cheeBe ;  add  a  little  more  ctieese  before  folding;  turn 
ii;  grate  a  little  cheese  over  it  before  serving. 

French  Omelet. 
One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  five  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  chopped  parsley,  season  with  pepper  and 
salti  have  butter  melted  in  a-  frying-pan ;  when  the  omelet  is  brown,  double 
it  tfver  and  serve. 

Spanish  Omelet. 
Six. eggs,  one  medium-sized  tomato,  one  smnll  onion,  one  dash  of  blaok 
pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  five  mimhrooms,  one-qiinrter  pound  of 
,  bacon,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cut  the  bacon  into  very  small  pieces 
and  fry  it  until  nicely  brovrn  ;  then  add  to  it  the  tomato,  onion,  and  mugb- 
room  chopped  fine  ;  stir  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Break  the  eggs  in  a 
bowl,  and  give  them  twelve  vigorous  beate  with  a  fork ;  salt  and  pepper. 
Now  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  a  smooth  frying-pan,  turn 
it  around  so  as  to  grease  the  bottom  and  sides.  When  the  butter  is  melted 
pour  in  the  eggs  and  shake  over  a  quick  fire  until  they  are  set.  Now  quickly 
pour  the  mixture  from  the  other  frying-pan  over  the  omelet,  double  once* 
and  turn  it  out  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 
Fry  the  eggs  in  a  little  salted  lard ;  drain  off  the  grease  well  and  lay 
them  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  neat  slices  of  fried  ham  out  in  medium  sized 
pieces.    Trim  off  the  rough  edges  of  the  eggs,  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
parsley. 

Baked  Eggs. 
Half  fill  a  baking  dish  with  a  filling  made  the  same  aa  for  chicken) 
break  six  or  eight  eggs  over  the  top,  not  to  crowd  too  much ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  until  the  eggs  are  nicely  set, 
SflTTfl  Ja  baking  dish. 


BREAD,  Biscurrs.  Era 


Ths  old  njiDg,  **  bread  is  the  staff  of  life,**  has  eoinid  reaaon  in  IL 
There  is  no  one  thing  on  which  the  health  and  comfort  of  a  family  so  mnch  de- 
pends, as  the  qnalitj  of  its  homemade  loaTes,  and  as  there  is  no  one  article  of 
food  that  enters  so  largely  into  oor  daily  f&re  as  bread,  so  no  degree  of  skill 
in  preparing  other  articles  can  compensate  for  lack  of  knowledge  in  the  art 
of  making  good,  palatable  and  nutritious  bread.  A  little  earnest  attention 
to  the  subject  will  enable  any  one  to  comprehend  the  theoiy,  and  then 
•rdinaiy  care  in  practice  will  make  one  familiar  with  the  process. 

Potato  Ybast. 

Pare  four  good-sized  potatoes,  and  let  them  He  in  cold  water  for  a  half 
hour.  Put  one  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan.  Now  grate  the 
potatoes  quickly  and  stir  them  into  the  boiling  water ;  stir  OTer  the  fire  for 
five  minutes,  then  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  Iialf  cupful  of  sugar  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  turn  into  a  stone  jar  or  bowl,  and  let  stand  until  luke- 
warm ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  good  yeast,  cover  and  ferment  three  or  four 
hours ;  stir  it  down  every  time  it  comes  to  the  top  of  the  Tessel ;  then  put  it 
into  a  jar  or  large  bottle,  or  something  you  can  cover  tightly,  and  stand  it  in 
a  place  where  it  will  keep  very  cold,  but  not  fineeze.  It  will  keep  two  weeks. 
Set  one  pint  of  this  aside  to  start  with  next  time,  as  what  will  be  left  in 
bottom  of  vessel  will  be  more  or  less  ^  dead,**  and  not  so  good  to  start  the 
fresh  yeast.     Thb  is  the  simplest  and  best  yeast  that  can  be  made. 

Hop  Yeast. 

Put  a  half  cupful  of  dried  hops  into  one  quart  of  water,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Put  one  pint  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  strain  over  it  the  boiling  hop 
water,  add  the  mashed  potato^  and  beat  until  smooth;  then  add  a  half 
cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  and  two  heaping  tablespoon- 
fcls  of  salt,  and  finish  the  same  as  potato  yeasL 

Whsat  Bbbad. 

Take  a  good-sized  bread  pan,  sift  into  it  your  flour.  If  winter,  and  the 
four  is  cold,  let  it  stand  a  litUe  while  near  the  stove,  then  make  a  hole  in  the 


ID,  BISCUITS,  ETa 

etting,  either  warm  water,  or  warm  milk  and 

g  it  well  and  beating  thoroughly.     Take  care 

lively,"  for,  without  this,  failure  is  certain. 

blanket  or  towel  and  in  winter  set  in  a  warm 

setting  the  sponge."     In  tlie  morning  add  tlie 

e  a  dongh.     Fii-st  work  the  dough  in  the  pan, 

iciness;  then  tlijckly  llonr  the  board,  Hour  the 

hands,  take  out  the  dough  and  knead  rapidly  and  continuously  by  drawing 

the  dough  farthest  from   you  over  to  the  centre  and  preiising  it  down  with 

a  ball  of  the  hand.    Repeat  this  several  times,  then  turn  the  dough  around 

d  knead  the  other  side,  and  so  on,  until  every  part  is  tliorouglily  and 

enly  kneaded.    This  will  take  about  twenty  minutes.    After  this,  you  set 

away  to  rise,  giving  it  time  to  tn\iff  expand,  but  exercising  care  that  tiie 

dough  does  not  fall,  as  it  is  then  sour,  and  nothing  can  be  done  to  restore 

its  original  sweetness.    Next  cornea  the  molding.    After  this  dough  is  very 

light,  divide  it  carefully  into  loaves;  knead  lightly  on  the  board  until 

.  formed ;  place  each  one  in  its  own  pan,  and  stand  back  in  a  warm  place 

until  double  its  bulk. 

Milk  Bread. 
Made  the  same  as  wheat  bread,  except  you  use  scalded  milk  instead  of 
water  to  mix  it  with. 

Steamed  Bostok  Brown  Bread. 
Two  cupfuU  of  rye  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  corn  meal,  a  teacupful  of 
.  molasses  or  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  all  together  thorovgldy,  and 
wet  up  with  about  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sour  milk ;  then  add  a  level  teaspoon- 
.  ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  The  same  can  be  made  of 
sweet  milk,  by  substituting  baking  powder  for  soda.  The  batter  to  be 
-  stirred  as  thick  as  can  be  with  a  spoon,  and  turned  into  a  well-greased  brown 
bread  mould,  put  the  lid  on  and  steam  five  hours,  take  olf  the  lid,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  a  half  boar. 

Boston  Bbown  Bread. 
'  Two  cups  of  rye  fiour,  one  quart  of  corn  meal,  one  teacupful  of  gmltam 
flour,  all  fresh;  half  a  teacupful  of  molasses  or  brown  sug^r,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  homemade  yeast.  Mix  into  as  stiff  a  ■ 
dough  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  using  warm  water  for  wetting.  Let  it  rise 
several  hours,  or  overnight ;  in  the  morning,  or  when  light,  add  a  teaspoon- 
fol  'of  soda  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  warm  water ;  beat  it  well  and  turn  -'t 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC-  M 

into  well-greased  deep,  bread  pans,  and  let  it  rise  again.    Bake  la  a  moderate 
oven  from  three  to  four  hours. 

Graham  Bread.    No.  1. 

Take  a  little  over  a  quart  of  warm  water,  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar  or 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  hop  yeast,  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  | 
thicken  tlie  water  with  graham  flour  to  a  thin  batter ;  add  sugar,  Si\lt  and 
yeast,' and  stir  in  more  flour  until  quite  stiff.  In  the  morning  add  a  small 
toaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  nnike  the  batter  stiff  as  can  be 
stirred  with  a  spoon  ;  put  it  into  pans  and  let  rise  again  ;  then  bake  in  even 
oven,  not  too  hot  at  first ;  keep  warm  while  rising;  smooth  over  the  loaves 
with  a  spoon  or  knife  dipped  in  water. 

Graham  Brbad.    No.  2. 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  milk  or  water  bread.    In  the  morniiig  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  suilicient  graham  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Work  well  with  the  hands,  mould  into  loaves,  put  into  well  greased  pans* 
let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.     Graham  bread  ' 
must  be  watched  more  carefully  than  white  bread,  as  it  sours  quickly. 

Corn  Bread. 

One  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir 
these  together ;  add  one  or  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  lard,  or  butter  size  of  walnut.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Southern  Rice  Bread. 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  boiled  rice,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  but* 
ter  and  lard  mixed,  two  tcacupfuls  of  white  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  ot 
baking  powder,  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  in  earthen  pans 
or  muffin  pans;  if  in  the  latter  the  batter  must  not  be  quite  so  thin. 

Parker  House  Rolls,  or  "  Pocketbooks.'* 

One  teacupful  of  yeast  or  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  a  little  salty 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  piece  of  lard  size  of  an  eggy  one  pint  of  milk, 
flour  suflicient  to  mix;  put  the  milk  on  the  stove  to  scald  with  the  lard  in 
it.  Prepare  the  flour  with  salt,  sugar,  and  yeast ;  then  add  the  milk,  not 
too  hot,  knead  thoroughly,  and  when  mixed  set  to  rise ;  when  light  knead 
again  slightly.  Then  roll  out,  spread  with  melted  butter,  cut  with  large 
biscuit  cutter,  and  lap  together;  let  them  rise  again  very  light,  and  baksiii 
a  ^uicx  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 


BREAD.  BISCDITS.  ETa 
Tba.  Bisonrr.    Ko.  1. 
[nt  of  milk,  tiro  outiceB  of  butter  or  lard,  one-halt  oop  of  yeast  or 
pressed  cake*  one  teaapoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonfol  of  sugar, 
quarts  of  good  fiour.    Scald  the  milk  and  stand  away  until  ]uke> 

,  J  add  the  salt,  sugar,  and  butter  or  lard,  stir  until  the  butter  ia 

dissolved,  then  add  the  floui  and  beat  vigorously  for  five  minutes ;  add  the  - 
yeast;  mix  well,  cover  with  a  towel,  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  four 
Iionrs,  or  until  very  light;  then  knead,  adding. sufBcient  flour  to  prevent 
■ticking.  It  must  not  he  as  stiff  as  bread.  Knead  continuously  for  teq 
minutes,  put  back  in  the  pan,  cover  again,  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  two 
hours,  or  until  double  its  bulk.  Now  turn  it  out  on  the  bread-board,  pinch 
off  a  small  piece  of  the  dough  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  knead  it  lightly 
with  the  Angers  into  a  little  ball,  place  in  a  greased  pan,  and  so  continue 
until  you  have  them  all  made.  Place  them  far  enough  apart  (two  inches) 
to  have  a  brown  crust  all  around.  When  you  have  them  all  molded,  cover 
again  and  let  stand  a  half  hour,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

TeI  BtscoiT.    No.  2. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping  tablespooufuls  of  lard,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Sift  flour  and  powder  first  together,  then  add  salt,  next  rnb  lard  quickly  in, 
uid  pour  in  the  milk ;  knead  well  and  out  out  in  small  biscuits.  Bake  iu 
(uick  oven. 

,    .  Johnnie  Cake. 

Sift  one  quart  of  Indian  meal  into  a  pan ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle 
aod  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  with  a 
spoon  mix  the  meal  and  water  gradually  into  a  soft  dough;  stir  it  very 
briskly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  till  it  becomes  light  and  spongy; 
then  spread  the  dough  smooth  and  evenly  on  a  straight,  flat  board  (a  piece  ' 
of  the  head  of  a  fiour-barrel  will  serve  for  this  purpose);  place  the  board 
nearly  upright  before  an  open  fire,  and  put  an  iron  against  the  back  to  sup- 

'  port  it ;  bake  it  well ;  when  done,  cut  it  in  squares ;  send  it  hot  to  tablet 

'  spKt  and  buttered. — Old  Plantation  Stj/le. 

Dixie  Biscurr. 
Three  pints  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  one  small 
cupful  of  yeast,  one  cupful  of  milk ;  mix  at  eleven  o'clock,  roll  out  at  four 
o'clock,  and  out  with  two  sizes  of  cutters,  put  the  small  ones  on  top  i  kt  riit 
ontil  luppw.    I»kt  twiDty  minntei. 


BKEAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC.  9t 

Beaten  Bisoutp. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoo&fol  ot 
•weet  lard,  one  egg ;  make  up  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or,  if  milk  is  not  to 
be  had,  plain  water  will  answer ;  beat  regularly,  but  not  hard,  until  tb« 
dough  blisters  and  pops ;  pull  ofif  some  of  the  dough ;  roll  it  into  a  ball  with 
the  hand;  flatten,  stick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  in 
not  beating  hard  that  makes  the  biscuit  nice,  but  the  regularity  of  tbo 
beating. 

Maryland  Biscuits. 

Five  pints  of  flour,  good  half  pound  of  lard,  one  pint  of  water,  two  ^6»» 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  baking  powder.  Mix  salt,  flour  and  lard 
together,  add  water  and  work  dough  good,  then  beat  it  one  thousand  times; 
make  out  into  small  biscuits,  stick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty 
minutes. 

Soda  Biscuit.  ' 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  pint  of  milk,  0D« 
large  spoonful  of  lard,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Put 
baking  powder  and  salt  in  the  flour  and  sift  it  over  again;  then  rub  into 
(his  the  lard,  (see  that  the  oven  is  very  hot,  grease  the  pans  and  get  the 
isutter  and  rolling  pin)  then  put  in  the  milk ;  knead  up  quickly.  Roll  out 
one  inch  thick ;  bake  twenty  minutes ;  handle  as  little  as  possible* 

Southern  Corn  Meal  Pone  ob  Corn  Dodgers. 

Mix  with  cold  water  or  milk  into  a  soft  dough  one  quart  of  southern 
corn  meal,  one  teacup  of  flour  sifted,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoouful  oi 
butter  or  lard  melted.  Mold  into  oviil  cakes  with  the  hands  and  bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  in  well-greased  pans.  To  be  eaten  hot.  The  crust  should 
be  brown. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins,  or  Ponbl 

Two  heaping  cupfuls  of  meal,  two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  sift  baking  powder 
in  meal  and  flour,  then  stir  this  into  lard' and  eggs;  beat  well  and  bak^ 
quickly. 
I 


BREAD.  BISCUITS,  ETC 

Graham  Gems. 
milk  or  buttermilk,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
lit,  a  tetioupful  of  wheat  flour,  and  graham  flour  to 
}  you  can  stir  with  a  8|>oon.     Have  the  gem-paua 
sry  quick  oven. 

Corn  Gbms. 
ow  corn  meal,  one  cupful  of  wheat  flour,  one  table- 
epoonful  o£  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  cold  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Put  the  meal  into  a  bowl,  pnt 
the  butter  into  the  centre  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  milk ;  stir,  then  add 
the  cold  milk,  the  eggs  beaten  separately,  salt  and  flour.  Beat  well,  add 
the  baking  powder  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  greased  gem-pans,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Plain  Gems. 
To  each  cupful  of  graham  flour  allow  one  tettspoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt.    Mix  with  enough  milk  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.    Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Sally  Ldnn. 
One  pint  of  milk,  three  e^s,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  gill  of  good 
yeast  or  a  quarter  of  a  compressed  cake,  one  and  one-lialf  pints  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  butter.  Scald  the  milk,  add  to 
it  the  butter,  and  stand  on  one  side  until  lukewaVm ;  then  add  the  yeast, 
salt,  sugar,  and  flour;  beat  continuously  for  Ave  minutes,  cover,  and  stnnd  in 
a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  or  until  very  light.  Then  beat  the  eggs  sepa* 
lately  until  very  light;  add  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites;  stir  them  in 
carefully ;  stand  again  in  a  warm  place  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  turn  into  a 
greased  Turk's  head,  and  hake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  for  forty  minutes. 

,  ■       ,  Quick  Sally  Lunn. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  half  cupful  of  butter;  stir  well  together,  and  then 
add  one  or  two  e^s ;  put  in  one  good  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  with  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  batter  about  as  stiff  as  cake  ;  put  in  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;  bake  and  eat  hot  with  butter,  for  tea  or  breakfast. 

Laplanders. 
One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  floiir,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately.    Bafr* 
ik  gem'pang. 


BREABp  BISCUITS,  EXa  99 

Rusk. 

V 

Two  teaoupfuls  of  raised  dough,  one -half  teacupful  of  sugar,  quarter  ot 
a  cupful  of  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifT dough; 
set  to  rise,  and  when  light,  mould  into  high  biscuit,  let  rise  again  twice  iba 
size ;  and  place  in  oven* 

Cinnamon  Rolls. 

Take  rusk  dough,  roll  to  about  one  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  spread 
with  butter,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  roll  up,  and  out  ar 
you  would  a  jelly  cake;  put  in  pans  like  biscuit,  not  to  touch;  set  to'^risc 
When  light,  put  in  a  little  lump  of  butter,  and  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  each* 
one,  and  bake* 

Vienna  Rolls. 

♦ 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Rub  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  cold 
lard,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  and  mix  in  a  bowl  to  a  smooth  dough  easily 
handled  without  sticking  to  hands.  Turn  out  dough  and  give  it  a  quick 
knead  or  two  to  equalize  it,  then  press  it  out  with  the  hand  without  rolling 
pin  to  tlie  thickness  of  one-half  inch.  Cut  out  with  a  large  round  cutter, 
fold  one-half  over  the  other  by  doubling  and  lay  them  on  greased  baking 
sheet,  without  touching.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 'fifteen  minutes.  .  Before  put- 
ting in  the  stove  they  may  be  washed  over  with  a  little  milk  to  glaze  them^ 
-^--Mrs.  H.  A.  Clark. 

Bebby  Tea  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  floar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  ol 
sugar,  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar, 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  stir  in  a  cupful  of  fruit.    To  be  eaten  with  butter. 

4 

Tea  Waffles  ob  Raised  Waffles. 

Take  one  quart  of  warm  milk  after  dinner;  put  in  two  eggs  beaten,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  small  cupful  of  yeast  or  half  a  compressed  cake. 
Mix  with  flour  a  little  thicker  than  wheat  pancakes.  Set  by  warm  stove 
and  they  will  be  light  for  tea.  Have  the  waffle  iron  gradually  and  thoroughly 
heated.  Dip  a  small  paint  brush  or  a  feather  in  molted  suet  and  grease  the 
iron  well  in  every  part.  Pour  the  batter  in  a  pitcher  so  you  can  fill  the 
iron  quickly.  Bake  two  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown,  tiien  remove  thm 
carefully,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 


BBEAD,  filSCUITS,  WtC 

Quick  Waffles. 
0  pints  of  sweet  milk,  otie  cup  of  butter  (melted),  sifted  flour  to  main  ■ 
«r ;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites, 
Ij  (just  before  bakiug)  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  beat 

iiig  very  hard  and  fast  for  a  few  minutes.    These  are  very  good  with  four  o« 

ftTfl  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more. 

Flannel  Cakes. 
One  pint;  and  a  quarter  of  milk,  one  tableapoonful  of  butter,  two  e^s^ 
three  Oupfuls  «f  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  yeast  or  half  a  compressed  cake,- 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Scald  the  milk,  add  to  it  the  butter,  and  let  stand 
until  lukewarm  ;  then  add  the  yeast,  or  the  cake  dissolved,  in  one-quai'tet 
cupful  of  warm  water,  and  salt  and  flour,  and  beat  well.  Cover  and  stand 
in  a  warm  place  until  morning.  In  the  morning  beat  the  eggs  separately  t 
add  first  the  yolks  and  tlien  the  whites ;  beat  well,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes, 
and  bake  on  a  hotgriddle,  in  greased  muflin  rings  on  the  griddle  on  top  of 
the  stove,  or  in  the  oven.  This  mixture  may  also  be  baked  in  gom-pans, 
and  is  then  Wheat  Qem»,  or  iti  mufliu  rings  using  a  gill  less  of  milk  and  is 
then  Plain  JftiJ^ni. 

QniCE  Flaknel  Cakes. 
One  quart  of  flour,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonfal  of  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk. 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  until  smooth,  then  add  the  salt,  beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  them  to  the  milk;  add  this  to  the  flour,  and  beat 
'  vigorously  until  smooth ;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  baking  powder, 
and  bake  quickly  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 
Put  one  quart  of  cold  water  Into  a  stone  jar  with  a  small  neck,  so  yoa 
«aa  pour  It  out  easily,  add  to  it  oue  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three  end  tliree- 
quarter  cups  of  buckwheat  flour;  beat  well  until  perfectly  smooth ;  then 
add  a  half  cupful  of  yeast  or  half  a  compressed  cake,  and  mix  well ;  cover  the 
top  of  the  jar  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  morning.  In  the  morn- 
ing, dissolve  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salemtus  or  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
•  boiling  water,  add  this  to  the  batter,  bent  thoroughly,  and  bake  on  a  liot 
griddle.  A  pint  of  this  batter  will  do  to  start  the  next  lot.  Add  two  table, 
spoonfuls  of  molasses,  that  the  cakes  may  brown  nicely.  Some  people  con* 
sidtnr  that  half  buckwheat  flour,  one-quarter  graham  flour,  and  one-quarter 
ladiaa  meal  make  the  best  and  most  healthy  griddle  cakes. 


BREAD,  BISCUITSp  ETC.  101 

SoxTB  Milk  Gbiddle  Cakes. 

Make  a  batter  of  a  quart  of  sour  milk, — or  buttermilk  is  better — and  ai 
i&uch  sifted  flour  as  is  needed  to  thicken  so  that  it  will  run  from  the  pitcher, 
add  ttfo  well-beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  itnd  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk  or  cold 
water,  added  last ;  then  bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  well  greased,  brown  on  both 
sides. 

POP-OVEES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tea 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  cups  in  a  quick  oven 
fifteen  minutes*    Serve  hot  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

PoMPTON  Puffs. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  oue  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of. 
salt,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  Cleveland's  baking  powder.  Sift  flour,  baking  pow« 
der,  and  salt  together  twice,  chop  in  the  butter.  Stir  the  beaten  yolks  into 
the  milk  and  add  the  flour,  then  the  frothed  whites.  Whip  high  and  light 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Gbiddle  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  level  tablespoon* 
ful  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  five  cupfuls  of  wheat  flour.  Cakes 
made  in  this  way  may  be  tender,  light  and  excellent.  The  buttermilk 
makes  them  light  and  puffy.     Beat  well. 

Buckwheat,  graham,  and  entire  wheat  flour  made  in  the  same  way. 
Five  cups  of  cither  to  one  cup  of  Indian  meal. 

Sauce  for  Pancakes. 

One  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one- half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Stir  sugar  and  butter  into  the  boiling  water,  and  add 
the  lemon  and  the  spice  after  taking  it  from  the  fire. 

Fritters. 

Make  fritters  quickly  and  beat  thoroughly.  A  good  rule  for  them  is 
iiwo  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour; 
have  the  lard  in  which  to  cook  them  nice  and  sweet  and  hot,  if  the  tempera- 
ture  is  right  the  batter  will  quickly  rise  in  a  light  ball  with  a  splutter,  and 


IMS  BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETa 

■oon'brown;  take  ap  carefullj  th^  moment  they  are  done,  with  a  wire  spoon  | 
drain  in  a  hot  colander,  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them ;  serve  hot. 
Batters  for  fritters  should  be  made  an  hour  before  using,  as  the  grains  of 
Sour  swell  by  standing  after  being  moistened,  and  thus  become  lighter.  Add 
the  whites  of  eggs  just  before  frying.  It  is  better  not  to  use  sugar  in  bat- 
ter, as  it  jtends  to  make  il  heavy.  Sprinkle  over  them  in  the  dish  when  just 
ready  to  serve.  Pork  fritters  are  made  by  dipping  thin  bits  of  breakfast- 
bacon  or  fiat  pork  in  the  batter :  fruit  fritters  by  chopping  any  kind  of  fresh 
or  canoed  fruit  fine  and  mixing  it  with  batter,  or  by  di^iping  quarters  ox 
halves  in  batter. 

Another  nice  fritter  batter  is  made  by  putting  in  a  basin  about  two 
ounces  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  teaspooufuls  of  melted  butter,  nnd  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  moistened  by  degrees  witit  water,  stirring  all  the  while  with 
a  spoon,  till  forming  a  smooth  consistency,  to  the  thickness  of  cream,  then 
beat  the  white  of  the  egg  till  firm,  mixing  it  witli  the  batter,  it  is  then 
ready  to  fry.     Use  any  fruitin  this  hatter. 

A  nice  fritter  sauce  is  made  by  boiling  a  teacupful  and  a  half  of  water 
and  one  cupful  of  sugar  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
a  teaspoonful  each  of  extract  of  mace,  cloves,  and  ginger. 

German  Feittebs. 
Take  slices  of  stale  bread  or  cake  cut  in  rounds,  fry  them  in  hot  lard 
.  to  a  light  brown.    Dip  each  slice  when  fried  in  boiling  milk,  to  remove  the 
grease ;  drain  quickly,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  or  spread  with  preserves 
or  jeliy.    Serve  on  a  hot  plate. 

Corn  Fbittbrs. 
One  can  of  corn,  pinch  o£  salt,  yolks  of  three  egga,  three  ^blespoonfnls 
it  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Meat  Fhitters. 
Any  cold  meat  or  chicken,  makes  excellent  fritters.  Chop  the  meat, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  the  juice  of  a  fresh  lemon  over  it. 
Prepare  the  meat  about  an  hour  before  making  the  fritters.  Stir  the  meat 
into  any  good  fritter  hatter;  then  drop  a  large  spoonful  into  boiling  hot  fat, 
«id  fry  to  a  light  brown.    Serve  very  hot. 

Oyster  Fkitters. 
Drain  one  pint  of  oysters  tlioroughly,  chop  flne,  season  with  pepper  and 
talt.    Stir  the'chopped  oysters  in  a  batter  made  of  eggs,  milk  and  floor*  and 


BREAD.  Biscuits,  ETC.  lOS 

fry  in  hot  butter  or  lard;  or  fry  them  whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in  each 
fritter.    In  this  case  the  batter  should  be  thicker  than  if  they  were  chopped 

Cream  Shortcakej. 

Rub  into  one  quart  of  fine  white  sifted  flour  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar.  Add  a 
beaten  egg  to  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  turn  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  dissolve 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  mix  all  together,  handling  as  little  as  possible;  roll 
lightly  into  two  round  sheets,  place  on  pie-tins,  and  bake  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  This  crust  is  delicious  for  fruit  shdrfr 
cakes* 


PASTRY  AND  PIES. 


To  make  a  ligbt  criiip,  and  flaky  crust,  the  best  of  flour  should  be  used) 
tbe  butter  and  lard  sbould  be  fiesh,  sweet  and  bard  ;  the  water  cold ;  and 
all  bandied  as  little  as  possible.  A  great  improvement  in  making  pie  crust 
ift  tbe  addition  o£  about  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  a  quart 
of  flour.  Pie  crust  can  be  kept  a  week,  so  tliat  it  is  a  good  plan  to  make 
two  or  three  extra  crusts  on  baking  day,  pricking  well,  to  be  used  for  cream 
custard,  or  lemou  pies  as  wanted. 

Plais  Pib  Crdst. 
Two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  cupful  of  shortening,  half 
butter  and  half  lard,  cold ;  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  sifted  through  tbe  flour.  Hub  thoroughly  the  shortening  hito  thv 
flour.  Mix  together  with  half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water,  or  enough  to  form 
a  rather  stiff  dough;  mix  as  little  as  possible,  just  enough  to  get  it  into 
shape  to  roll  out;  it  must  be  handled  very  lightly.  This  rule  is  for  two 
pies.  Great  care  must'  be  taken  in  addhig  the  water.  Wet  only  the  di'y 
flour,  never  stirring  twice  in  the  same  place,  and  taking  care  not  to  add  more 
than  is  needed  to  moisten.  When  you  have  a  liUle  pie  crust  left,  do  not 
throw  it  away  ;  roll  it  thin,  cut  it  in  small  squares  and  bake.  Just  before 
tea,  put  a  spooiiful  of  raspberry  jelly  on  each  square. 

Suet  Paste. 
One  cupful  of  beef  suet,  freed  of  skin,  and  chopped  very  fine,  added  to 
two  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  Add 
one  cupful  of  ice  water  and  mix  into  smooth  firm  dough.  This  paste  is  nice 
for  apple  dumplings  and  meat  pies.  All  the  ingredients  should  be  very  cold 
when  mixing,  and  the  suet  dredged  with  flour  after  it  is  chopped,  to  preveut 
the  particles  from  adhering  to  each  other. 

Sliced  Apple  Pie. 
Line  pie  pan  with  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  fill  with  tart  apples  sliced 
rery  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  and  a  very  little  cinnamon  over  them,  and  add  a 
(1041 


PASt&T  AKD  PIES.  105 

lew  small  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  the  top  crust,  and  bake  half  to  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  allow  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  one  pie. 
Or,  line  pans  with  crust,  fill  with  sliced  apples,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake ; 
take  off  top  crust,  put  in  sugar,  bits  of  butter  and  seasoning,  replace  crust 
and  serve  warm.     It  is  delicious  with  sweetened  cream. — R.  B.  P. 

Apple  Custakd  Pie,    No.  !• 

Lay  a  crust  in  your  plates ;  slice  then  enough  apples  to  half  fill  youi 
plates ;  pour  over  them  a  custard  made  of  two  eggs  and  one  quart  of  milk, 
sweetened  and  seasoned  to  your  taste.    Bake  until  set  in  the  middle. 

Apple  Custard  Pie.    No.  2. 

Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft,  then  rub  through  a  colander;  beat 
one  egg  for  each  pie  to  be  baked,  and  put  in  at  the  rate  of  one  teaspoonful 
of  batter  and  one  cupful  of  sugar  for  three  pies ;  season  with  nutmeg. 

APBidOT,  Apple  or  Peach  Meringue  Pie, 

Use  stewed  apples,  peaches  or  apricots,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Mash 
smooth  and  season  with  nutmeg  and  a  little  butter.  Fill  the  crusts  and 
bake,  without  top  crusts.  Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  sweeten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Fla< 
vor  with  vanilla.  Beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  then  spread  on  the  pie  one« 
half  to  one  inch  thick,  and  set  back  into  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  '^set.*' 
Eat  cold.     Dried  fruit  can  be  substituted. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Put  some  grated  chocolate  into  a  basin  and  place  this  in  another  basia 
of  hot  water ;  let  it  melt  (do  not  add  any  water  to  it);  beat  one  egg  light, 
and  add  a  little  sugar  to  it ;  when  melted  add  to  egg,  spread  this  on  the  top 
of  a  custard  pie.     Lovers  of  chocolate  will  like  this. 

Cherry  Pie. 

The  common  red  cherries  make  the  best  pies.  Stone  half  the  cherries. 
Line  deep  pie  dishes  with  good  plain  paste,  fill  them  nearly  full  of  the  cher* 
r}es,  sprinkle  over  four  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  dredge  this  lightly 
with  Hour ;  cover  with  the  upper  crust,  rolled  out  as  thin  as  possible,  trim 
the  edges  neatly  with  a  sharp  knife.  Make  a  vent  in  the  centre  ;  moisten 
the  edges  with  water  and  press  them  tightly  together  so  that  the  juices  of 
the  fruit  may  not  run  out  while  baking.  Serve  the  same  daF  as  they  ari 
bakedft  or  the  under  crust  will  be  heavy. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES. 

Blackberry,  raspberry,  huckleberry,  plum  and  strawberry  pica  are  madi 
the  sftine,  using  two  large  tablespoonfula  of  sugar  instead  of  four. 

Chocolate  Costard  Pib. 
One-quarter  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  giated ;  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  six  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  white  sugar,  two  tea< 
spoonfuls  of  Tanilla.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into 
the  boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly  cold,  beat  up  with 
this  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  milk,  season  and  pour  into  shells  of  good  paste.  When  the  custard 
ia  "aet  " — but  not  more  than  half  done — spread  over  it  the  whites  whipped 
to  a  froth,  with  two  tablespoon^uls  of  sugar.  You  may  bake  these  custards 
without  paste,  in  a  pudding-dish  or  cups  set  in  boiling  water. 

CocoAsuT  Custard. 
Beat  two  e^s  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar  together  until  light.    Add  one 
pint  of  milk,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut. 
Line  two  pie  dishes  with  plain  paste,  pour  in  tlie  custard,  and  bake  in  a 
.  quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes. — 21.  B.  P, 

Cbahbebrt  Pib, 
Take  a  heaping  cupful  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  split 
each  one ;  put  them  in  a  vegetable  dish ;  add  one  cupful  of  white  sugar, 
half  a  cupful  of  water,  a  tableepoonful  of  sifted  flour ;  stir  it  all  togetlier, 
and  put  into  your  crust.  Cover  with  crust,  and  hake  slowly  in  a  moderate 
oven.     You  will  find  this  the  beat  way  of  making  a  cranberry  pie. 

Cranberry  Tart  Fie. 
After  having  washed  and  picked  over  the  berries,  stew  them  well  In 
enough  water  to  cover  them  {  when  they  burst  open,  and  become  soft, 
sweeten  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  mash  them  smooth  (some  prefer  them  not 
mashed) ;  Hue  your  pie  plates  with  thin  pufif  paste,  fill  them,  and  lay  strips 
of  paste  across  the  top.  Bake  In  a  moderate  oven.  Or,  you  may  rub  tbam 
through  a  colander  to  free  them  from  the  skins. 

Cream  Pib. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  moisten  a  heaping  tablespoon' 

ful  of  cornstaroh  with  a  little  oold  milk  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk.    Stir 

constantly  until  it  thickens  ;  then  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  lump 

of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.    Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  &otb 


PASTRY  AND  PlfiS.  lOT 

and  add  just  before  taking  from  tbe  stove.  Flavor  the  custard  with  the 
juice  and  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Line  three  pie 
dishes  with  plain  paste ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
When  done*  fill  with  the  custard  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve  vorj 
cold. 

■ 

Cheese  Cake  Pies. 

Tliree  cupfuls  of  cottage  cheese,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  six  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Press  the  cheese  through  a  col- 
ander, beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  them  with  all  the  other  ingredients  to 
the  cheese ;  beat  until  smooth.  Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  plain  paste,  fill 
with  this  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Ripe  Currant  Pie. 

Stem  your  currants  and  wash  them;  line  your  pie  plates  with  paste ; 
fill  them  with  the  fruit  and  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  to 
one  of  currants,*  and  sprinkle  fiour  over  the  top,  cover  with  top  crust,  leave 
an  opening  in  the  centre  and  bake.     . 

Lemon  Custard. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  tliree  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Beat  the  cupful  of  sugcir  and  yolks  of  eggs  together,  add  the  juice  and  rind 
of  the  lemon.  Put  the  flour  into  a  cup  and  add  the  milk  very  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  while,  then  pour  it  through  a  sieve  into  the  eggs  and  sugar. 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  thirty  minutes.  Add  gradually  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beating  all  the  while  ;  when  it  is  all,  in,  beat 
until  stiff  and  glossy,  then  place  over  the  top  of  the  pie  by  spoonfuls,  and 
pat  back  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Lemon  Pib. 

One  large  lemon,  or  two  small  ones,  grated,  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water, 
one  cupful  of  new  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  one  egg,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  sugar  and  butter  ta 
the  grated  lemon.  Mix  cornstarch  with  the  egg,  and  add  all  the  ingredients 
to  tiie  milk  and  water.    Boil  in  a  farina  kettle. 


m 


iASikt  ASb  tat 


Pumpkin  fob  Pibs* 

Gut  up  in  several  pieces,  do  Dot  pare  it ;  place  them  on  baking-tins  and 
set  them  in  the  oven ;  bake  slowly  until  soft,  then  take  them  out,  scrape  all 
the  pumpkin  from  the  shell,  rub  it  through  a  colander.  It  will  be  fine  and 
light  and  free  from  lumps.  Or  it  may  be  steamed  and  strained  through  a 
sieve.    Squash  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Pumpkin  Pies. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk,  (a  little  cream  is  a  great  improvement),  three 
oupfuls  of  prepared  pumpkin,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  piece  of  butter, 
four  eggs,  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  same  of  cinnamon.  Beat  the 
yolks  thoroughly  before  added,  and  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  just  before 
putting  the  pie  in  the  oven.  Have  a  rich  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
This  recipe  is  a  sufiScient  quantity  for  three  pies. 

CUSTABD  PiB. 

/  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  thoroughly  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  sifted  flour  into  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  add  it  to  the  beaten 
yolks,  use  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg ;  next  the  well-beaten  white's  of  the  eggs  ;  and  histly,  a  pint  of  scalded 
milk  (not  boiled)  which  has  been  cooled  ;  mix  this  in  by  degrees,  and  turn 
all  into  a  deep  pie  pan,  lined  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes. 

Cream  Pbaoh  Pie. 

Pare  ripe  peaches  and  remove  the  stones  ;  have  your  pie  dishes  ready 
lined  with  a  good  paste,  fill  with  the  peaches ;  strew  these  with  sugar ;  lay 
the  upper  crust  on  lightly,  slightly  buttering  the  lower  at  the  point  of  con- 
tact. When  the  pie  is  done,  lift  the  cover  and  pour  in  a  cream  made  thus : 
one  small  cupful  of  rich  milk,  heated,  whites  of  two  eggs,  whipped  and 
stirred  into  the  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch  wet  up  in  milk;  boil  three  minutes.  The  cream  must  be  cold 
when  it  goes  into  the  hot  pie*  Replace  tlie  crust,  and  set  by  to  cool.  Eat 
fresh. 

Dried  Peach  Florendinbs. 

■ 

8tew  peaches  in  as  little  water  as  possible ;  put  them  through  the  col- 
ander and  thin  with  cream  or  good  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  lemon.  For  every  pie,  beat  up  one  egg  very  light  and  add  just 
before  turning  into  the  crust.    For  each  pie,  beat  to  a  froth  the  white  of  an 


^g ,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  lemon,  and  spread  ovar  flor'* 
endine.     Retarn  to  the  oven  and  brown. — iZ.  B.  P, 

Pie  Plant  or  Rhubabb  Pie. 

Mix  half  teacupful  of  white  sugar  aud  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  ^oux 
together,  sprinkle  over  the  bottom  crust,  then  cut  the  pie  plant  up  fine  and 
add ;  sprinkle  over  this  another  half  teacupful  of  sugar  and  heaping  tea* 
spoonful  of  flour ;  bake  three-quartei-s  of  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Or,  stew 
the  pie  plant,  sweeten,  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  and  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  bake  and  frost  like  lemon  pie. 

SwBBT  Potato  Pie. 

One  pound  of  steamed  sweet  potatoes  finely  mashed,  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  cream,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  flavor  with  lemon  or  nut* 
meg  and  bake  in  pastry  shelL  Fine.  In  lieu  of  cream  nse  milk  and  a  little 
butter. 

RlOB    CUSTABD. 

Thicken  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  with  about  one-third  of  a  cupful  of 
ground  rice ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  five  beaten  ^gs,  sugar  to  taste 
aud  flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Marlbobo  Pus. 

Press  one  cupful  of  stewed  apples  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  table* 
spoonful  of  butter  while  the  apples  are  hot ;  let  stand  until  cooL  When 
cold  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  juice  and  rind  of  one 
lemon,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  cujiful  of  cream  or  milk.  Bake  thirty 
minutes  in  quick  ove*^  in  two  deep  pie  dishes  lined  with  plain  paste.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  t*;  n  stiff  froth,  add  two  t^blesp^ionfuls  of  powdered 
sugar.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pies  and  return  them  to  the  oven  until  a 
nice  brown. 

Molasses  Piel 

Pat  in  a  pan  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  uf 
yinegar,  two  tablespoon fols  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water,  a  little  lensoo 
juice  and  grated  peel  or  nutmeg,  and  an  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  well  to- 
gether. Line  two  dishes  with  plain  paste  and  pour  mixture  in.  Cut  strips 
one-half  inch  wide  of  the  paste  and  cross  over  the  top  of  pie. — R.  B.  Pm 

Shoo  F»t  Pie. 

Line  four  dishes  with  crust.  Mix  in  a  pan  one  cupful  of  Kew  Orieans 
nolasses,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  aud  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sodar 


PAStRt  AND  PtES. 

:>he  boiling  water.  Divide  this  among  the  four  crusts.  Take 
three  scant  cupfuls  of  dour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  and  lard 
size  of  an  egg.  Mix  together  and  sprinkle  in  the  iiiolnsses  and  water.  Let 
stand  five  or  teii  minutes  or  until  molasses  has  soalied  through  flour.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrt.  Rodgen. 

GOOSEBEBBY  PlE. 

Pick  off  the  sterna  and  blossoms  of  your  gooseberries,  wash  them,  and 
pour  enough  boiling  water  over  them  to  cover  them.  Let  them  stand  until 
the  water  is  cold  and  then  drain  tliem.  Line  your  pie  plates  with  pastry, 
fill  them  with  the  fruit,  and  add  three-fourths  of  n  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  fruit ;  sprinkle  flour  over  the  top  and  cover  with  the  top  crust ;  leave  an 
opening  in  the  centre,  then  your  juice  will  not  boil  out. 

■  Mince  Meat. 
Two  pounds  of  beef,  (sticking  piece  best),  two  pounds  of  beefs  suet, 
two  poundi*  of  layer  nusins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  picked,  waslied,  and 
dried,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  nutmegs,  grated,  one-quarter  ounce  of  cloves, 
one-half  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel,  four  pounds  of  apples,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-quarter  ounce  of  mace,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  juice  and  rind  of  two  oranges,  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons. 
Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  until,  tender,  then 
stand  away  until  cold.  Shred  the  suet  and  chop  it  fine.  Pare,  core,  and 
chop  the  apples.  Stone  the  raisins.  Shred  the  citron.  When  the  meat  is 
cold,  chop  it  fine,  and  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  witli  it ;  then  add  the 
juice  and  .rinds  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  mix  well,  and  thin  with  good 
sweet  cider,  and  it  is  ready  fur  immediate  use.  If  for  future  use,  put  over 
the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  it  in  fruit  jars  and 
make' untight.    This  will  keep  for  montlis. 

Mock  Mincb  Meat. 
Roll  two  Boston  crackers  and  mix  them  with  one  cup  of  finely  chopped 
raisins,  one-half  cup  of  washed  currants;  nild  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  cider,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  ctip  of  cut 
citron,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  spice  to  taste.  Mix  all  together 
and  bake  with  two  crusts  in  a  quick  oven  for  a  half  hour. 

PoTrtE  Ckust. 
One  pint  of  buttermilk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  one  teaspoon' 
fill  of  soda  and  a  little  salt.    Mix  the  same  as  soda  biacuiC 


CAKESi 


When  making  cake  remember: 

To  use  an  earthen  bowl  and  a  wooden  spoon »  never  attempt  to  mix  the 
eggs  and  butter  in  a  tin  basin. 

Eggs  keep  fresher  and  beat  up  quicker  when  kept  in  a  cool  place  or  on 
ice;  never  melt  or  warm  the  butter  but  beat  it  to  a  cream. 

Baking  powder  should  be  well  mixed  with  the  sifted  flour. 

Powdered  sugar  makes  a  much  lighter,  finer  cake  tlian  granulated. 

To  use  cups  of  the  same  size  to  measure  all  materials. 

When  no  butter  is  used  in  the  cake  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven ;  when 
butter  is  used^  a  moderate  oven. 

It  is  better  to  grease  the  cake  pans  with  lard  as  butter  sticks  and  burns 
easily.     A  safe  plan  is  to  line  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  greased  paper. 

You  may  know  the  cake  is  done  when  it  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan; 
when  it  will  not  stick  to  bruom  splint  when  stuck  in  centre  of  cake  or  when 
you  no  longer  hear  it  sing  when  held  close  to  the  ear. 

When  looking  at  the  cake  while  it  is  baking  do  it  quickly  and  shut  the 
door  carefully.  Turn  out  as  lightly  as  possible  that  yoa  may  not  cause  it  to 
sadden.  * 

Exact  quantities  of  flour  can  hardly  be  given  as  it  differs  so  in  thickening 
qualities.     Judgment  must  be  exercised  in  this. 

In  tlie  recipes  for  boiled  icings,  boil  'til  it  hairs,  means  boil  until  when 
you  drop  a  little  from  the  spoon  little  hairs  or  threads  are  seen  to  blow  ofif 
from  it.  It  is  then  done.  If  taken  ojff  before  this,  your  icing  will  be  soft, 
if  allowed  to  cook  too  much,  it  will  be  hard  and  crack  on  3'our  cake.  Ex- 
perience  will  teach  you  wlien  it  is  done  just  enough,  and  you  will  make  no 
other  after  learning  this  method. 

Angel's  Food. 

After  sifting  flour  four  or  Ave  times,  measure  and  set  aside  one  cup. 
Sift  several  times  and  measure  one  and  one-fourtji  cups  of  granulated  sugar. 
Beat  whites  of  ten  eggs  about  half  and  add  one  level  teaspoonful  of  creavf 


1     \ 


112  CAKES. 

of.  tartar.    Beat  until  very,  very  stiff.     Flavor.    Stir  in  sugar,  then  flour 
very  lightly.    Put  in  pan  and  in  a  moderate  oven  at  once. 

Devil's  Food. 

Part  1.  Mix  together  one  oup  of  J^rown  sugar,  one  cup  of  shaved  choco- 
late, one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Put  over  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring 
ail  the  while.    When  thick,  take  from  stove  and  set  to  cool. 

Part  2.   Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of 

butter.     Add  yolks  t)f  three  eggs  and  beat  all  very  light ;  then  one-half  cup 

of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 

baking  powder.     Beat  whites  light  and  add  also  a  pinch  of  salt.     Mix  with 

^  ''•Part  1  and  bake  in  jelly  tins.     Put  white  icing  between  layers. — Lucie  B.  B. 

White  Cakb. 

Cream  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar. 
'  Add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  three  cups  of  flour,  mixing  three  level  tea« 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Just  before  putting  in  the  oyen 
flavor  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs.  Bake  in  jelly  tins  and  put 
chocolate  or  orange  icing  between.  If  chocolate  icing  is  used,  flavor  cake 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  if  orange  icing,  flavor  cake  with  same 
quantity  of  orange. 

9 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Dissolve  one  cup  of  sbaved  chocolate  in  flve  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water.  Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  an^l  a  half  cups  of  s^igar; 
add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  beat  light,  then  one-half  cup  of  milk,  the 
melted  chocolate,  and  one  and  three-fourth  cups  of  flour,  (save  a  little  of  the 
flour  to  mix  with  the  baking  powder.)  Beat  this  mixture  very  smooth  and 
then  ladd  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  lightly,  but  well,  and 
turn  into  a  greased  cake-pan  wbich  has  been  lined  with  paper,  and  bake 
iorty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

loE  Cream  Case. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla ;  bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Filling. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-balf 
pint  of  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  citric  acid,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  sugar,  boil  until  clear  and  will  candy  in  water,  pour 


CARES.  118 

« 

tne  boiling  syrup  over  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  beat  until  cold  and  a  stiff 
•ream ;  before  quite  cold  add  citric  acid  and  vanilla.  Place  about  one  inch 
thick  between  layers  ot  cake. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  xnolasses,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  three  level  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one-half 
pound  of  citron,  one  small  nutmeg,  grated,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  on« 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  same  of  an  orange.  Rub 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  molasses  and  milk  and  beat  well.  St^em 
and  seed  the  raisins;  clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  currants ;  cut  the  citron  into 
shreds  ;  mix  fruit  well  together.  Add  the  spices  and  baking  powder  to  the 
flour,  then  add  flour  to  the  fruit  mixing  well  to  prevent  fruit  from  sticking 
together,  then  add  to  the  cake.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  lemon  and  orange 
and  stir  all  well  together.  Line-  two  round  cake  pans  with  greased  paper, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  four  hours.  This 
will  make  two  four  pound  cakes. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  the  whites  of  five 
oggSf  one  scant  cupful  of  milk,  one-quarter  pound  of  citron,  cut  fine ;  one- 
half  pound  of  chopped  almonds,  one  cupful  of  prepared  cocoanut,  three 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream  ;  then  add  the  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  the 
fruit  and  eggs ;  sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour ;  mix  well.  Bake  in  two» 
loaves  for  forty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Spice  Cake. 

Rub  to  a  cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  brown 
sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  beat  very  light.  Then  one  half 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  grated  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  and 
three-fourtlis  of  a  teaspoonful  cloves,  mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
with  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  add.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  add  to  cake.  Beat  quickly  and  lightly,  and  pour  in  jelly  tins. 
Put  together  with  boiled  white  icing,  for  which  you  will  save  the  two  re- 
maining whites.    See  Icings. — JR.  B.  P. 

Railroad  Cake. 

liream  two  cupfula  of  soft  white  sugar,  and  one  cupful  of  butter.   Add 
Iho  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  beat  very  light ;  then  add  one  oupfol  of  sweet 
8 


i. 


Ui 


CAKES. 


milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour  to  which  has  been  added  three  leyel  teaspoon* 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  and  flavor.     Beat  very  lightly  the  whites  of  th9 

three  eggs  and  add  just  before  putting  in  pans.    Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

•  » 

Pound  Cake.  ' 

Beat  one-half  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  gradually  one  pound 
of  sugar,  beating  all  the  while.  Beat  seven  eggs  without  separating  until 
very^  very  light,  and  add  them  slowly  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  beat  the 
whole  vigorously.  Add  one  pound  of  sifted  flour  in  which  you  have  put 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  and  a 
quarter  hours. 

Delicate  Cake. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  just  the  last  thing  before  going  in 
tiie  oven.    Flavor  with  lemon.-^LiUe. 


White  Mountain  Cake. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  three  and  three-quarters  cupfuls  of  flour,  four  yolks  of  eggs  and 
one  white;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Use  the  other  three 
whites  for  the  icing.    Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Sponge  Cake.  No.  1. 

Three  egg^,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  on 
to  boil.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  vert/  slowly  over  the  beaten  eggs — 
be  careful  not  to  scald  them — beat  until  cold.  Add  the  flour  and  baking 
powder.    Flavor  to  taste. — B.  B.  P. 

Velvet  Sponge  Cakk 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  together  with  two  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  in 
slowly  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  theQ  a  cupful  of  sifted  flour  in  which  you  have  stirred  two  teaspoon* 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  and  lastly,  a  scant  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  stirred 
in  a  little  at  a  time.  Flavor,  add  salt,  and  however  thin  the  mixtuxe  majr 
8eem>  do  not  add  any  more  floor.    Bake  in  shallow  tins. 


«  CAKES.  lU 

Sponge  Cake.  No«  2. 

Four  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  three-fourths 
of  a  cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon. 
Beat  whites  until  very  light  then  add  the  yolks  one  whole  one  at  a  time, 
and  beat  light,  then  the  sugar  and  lemon.  Beat  this  until  very  light,  add 
the  powder  to  flour  and  stir  lightly  into  the  batter*  Pour  into  a  well-greased 
pan  and  bake  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  A.  Darlington. 

Sponqb  Cakb  Fob  Winter. 

One  cupful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonfu^  of 
baking  powder,  one-half  teacupful  of  water ;  beat  up  quickly  and  bake. 

Sponge  Cakb.  No.  8. 

Beat  to  a  cream  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  pulverized  8ug»*r.  mmmmm^  eggs 
(save  out  two  whites  for  icing).  Stir  into  this  two  cupfuig  of  8me<i  flour 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  also  one-half  cupful  of  hot  water. 
For  making  the  boiled  icing,  see  Icings. — Mn.  S.  A.  Clark. 

Feather  Cake. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfula 
of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
tablespoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar ;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  thin 
cream,  three  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  sifted  through  flour,  six  eggs  beaten  separately  and  one  pint  of 
chopped  hickory  nuts.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

« 

Egglbss  Cake. 

# 

One  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  three  ciipfula 
of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  onQ-half  of  a  nutmeg. 

Gold  and  Silver  Cake. 

The  Gold. — Rub  to  a  cream  one  cupful  of  soft  white  sugar  and  one* 
lialf  a  cupful  of  butter.  Add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  beat  light.  Add 
one-half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  mix,  add  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  two 
l«vel  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.    Flavor  and  bake  in  jelly  tins. 


116  >  CAKES. 

The  Silver.-^^re^.m  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  and  one  cupful  of  soft 
white  sugar*  To  this,  add  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  of 
flour,  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  to  a  stifif  froth  and  add  just  before  putting  in  jelly  tins.  Alter- 
nate the  lay^r  of  gold  and  silver,  and  put  together  with  white  icing.— i2.  JS.  P. 

'  Marble  Cake. 

White  Part. — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  ont 
of  batter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of  flour  sifted  and  heaping,  one  teaspoon* 
fiil  of  89da  -  flavor  m^  ««u»Ae. 

,  Dark  J^art,^^^^^tmm»  ••f  seven  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  of 
butter,  ono  of  vctnv  wnnr^  four  of  flour,  sifted  and  heaping,  one  tablespoon* 
ful  each  of  .cinnamim.  nngpice  and  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  put  in  a 
large  pan  a  spoomwi  lur  white  part  and  then  a  spoonful  of  dark,  and  so  on. 
Bake  an  Lour  (tiut  m  cmarter.  The  white  and  dark  parts  are  alternated  in 
the  layer. 

Ribbon  Caeb. 

This  cake  n  mthim  trom  the  same  recipe  as  marble  cake,  only  make 
doable  the  qanntnnr  at  the  white  part,  and  divide  it  in  one  half;  put  into 
it  a  very  little  ooonniAAi.  It  will  be  a  delicate  pink.  Lay  first  the  white, 
then  the  dark,  then  the  pink  one  on  top  of  the  others ;  bake  in  a  loaf.  It 
makes  quite  a^  fancy  cake.    Frost  the  top  when  cooL 

Lemon  Cake. 

ff 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  three-quarters  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
whites 'of  six  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Sauoefor  Lemon  Cake. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar ;  mix  all  together,  and  set  on 
store,  and  cook  till  thick  as  sponge,  stirring  all  the  time ;  then  use  like 
jelly  between  the  cakes. 

Cabakel  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  a  scant  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  flour,  cup  of  cornstarch,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  in  the  flour ;  bake  in  a  long  pan.  Take  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
soant  quarter  pound  of  chocolate,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla;  mix  thoroughly  and  cook  as  syrup  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread  ;  out  cake  in  the  middle  and  place  dressing  between  and 
•B  top,  and  eet  in  the  oven  to  dry. 


CAKE&  117 

Snow  Cake.  (Delioious). 

One  pound  of  arrowroot,  half  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  flavoring  to  taste  of  essence 
of  almonds  or  vanilla,  or  lemon ;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  stir  in  the 
sugar  and  arrowroot  gradually,  at  the  same  time  beating  the  mixture  ;  whisk 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients, 
and  beat  well  for  twent}'  minutes  ;  put  in  whichever  of  the  above  flavorings 
may  be  preferred;  pour  the  cake  into  a  buttered  mold  or  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours.  This  is  a  genuine  Scotch 
recipe. 

Cbeam  Cakb. 

Rub  to  a  mrmnm  nwo  cups  of  powdered  sugar  and  two-thir't"  ^^  •*  «»^p 
of  butter,  add  ^ahwi  iw  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  flavonntf.  «iuM^e 
scant  cups  of  tennr.  ana  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  JMd 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  just  before  putting  in  pans.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins. 

* 

MiXTUBB  FOB  Cake. 

Beat  one  egg  and  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar  until  egg  is  very  light. 
Moisten  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarcli  with  a  little  milk,  and  add 
to  pan.  Then  add  a  half  pint  of  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flavoring,  and 
boil,  or  make  as  a  cornstarch  pudding  using  these  proportions. 

4 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  add  first 
sugar  and  having  mixed  the  salt  and  powder  with  the  flour,  dust  that  in  and 
beat  up  light.  Bake  this  in  a  shallow  square  pan,  when  done,  turn  out, 
spread  on  jelly  and  roll  immediately      Wrap  in. — Mrs.  Clark. 

Cup  OB  1,  2,  3,  4  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour  and  four 
eggs.     Mix  up  the  same  as  layer  cake.     (See  recipe.) 

Cbeam  Puffs. 

Put  into  a  large  sized  saucepan  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of  hot 
water;  set  it  on  the  fire;  and  when  the  mixture  begins  to  boil,  turn  in  a 
pint  of  sifted  flour  at  once,  beat  and  stir  until  it  is  very  smooth,  and  leaves 
the  pan.     Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  enough  add  five  eggs  that 


118  CAKE& 

has^  been  well  beaten,  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites,  also  a  little  salt, 
stand  in  a  warm  plaoe  for  half  an  hour  stirring  frequently.  Drop  on  buttered 
tins  in  la^e  spoonfuls,  about  two  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
twenty  minutes.  When  done  they  will  be  quite  light.  When  cold,  open 
them  on  the  sids  with  a  knife  or  scissors,  and  put  in  as  much  of  the  custard 
as  possible. 

Cream  for  Filling. — Made  of  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  (lour 
(or  half  oup  of  cornstarch),  an- »  rm^  aim  at  sugar.  Put  two-thirds  of  a  pint 
of  milk  over  the  lire  in  a  donmn  nmmr,  stir  tlie  sugar,  flour  and  beaten 
6ggB  together,  and  as  soon  ar  ^m  mttk  looks  like  boiling,  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  stir  briskly  for  three  ■niniiMi.  nntil  it  thickens;  then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  when  cool,  flavor  vntn  vanuiaor  lemon,  and  fill  your  cakes.. 

CHOOnt.A-nG  lECLAIBS. 

Make  the  mixture  ezactlv  ma  m*  recipe  for  "  Cream  Puffs."  Spread 
it  on  buttered  pans  in  oblong  nuwtMi  anout  five  inches  long,  to  be  Inid  about 
two  inches  apart ;  they  must  b*  imkmi  in  a  rather  quick  oven,  about  twenty* 
five  minutes.  As  soon  aa  baVwf.  inn  wn.h  chocolate  icing,  and  when  this  is 
oold,  split  them  on  one'  side,  anil  fill  with  the  same  cream  as  "Cream  Puffs." 


Whit<!s  of  three  eggs  and  a  half  pound  of  pulverized  eugnr.  Beat  the 
whites  very  stiff,  then  sift  in  sugar  beating  all  the  time.  Drop  with  a 
spoon  (which  has  been  dipped  into  cold  water)  upon  well  buttered  paper  on 
pans.  Lift  quickly  and  lightly  into  powdered  sugar,  blow  off  all  that  won't 
stick  and  put  at  once  into  a  quick  oven.  Watch  cai-efully  or  they  will  burn. 
When  they  feel  firm  take  them  out  and  remove  carefully  from  the  paper. 

Shellbabk  Kisses. 
One  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one  pound  of  nuts  and  the  whites  of  five 
eggs.    Make  the  same  as  kisses,  adding  the  nuts  last. 

Molasses  Found  Caeb. 
Cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  brown  sugar.  To  this,  add 
the  yolks  of  four  or  five  eggs  and  beat  very  light.  Then  add  one  cup  (i 
thick  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  t&blespoonful  of  cloves,  one  of  cinna- 
mon, and  one  and  a  half  of  ginger.  Beat  well  together  and  add  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  four  cups  of  flour  and 
tha  wfaitM  of  the  four  eggs  well  beaten Mi»a  Barnard. 


CAtt£S.  lift 

Stbawbebky  Shobtcake. 

Rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a 
oream.  Add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  mix  in  flour.  Roll  out  about  one  and  a 
half  inches  in  thickness,  put  into  a  greased,  large  square  baking-pan,  and 
bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  take  from  the 
oven,  split  into  halves,  and  spread  each  half  lightly  with  butter.  Place  the 
lower  half  in  a  large  meat  phate.  Have  the  berries  stemmed,  sweetenedi  and 
slightly  mashed,  and  now  put  half  the  berries  on  this  lower  half.  Cover 
this  with  the  other  half  of  the  shortcake  and  place  on  this  the  remaining 
half  of  the  berries.  Pour  good  cream  over  this  and  serve  immediately. 
This  will  serve  six  persons  and  requires  all  of  two  quart  boxes  of  strawberries* 

• 

Variety  Cake. 

Rub  to  a  cream  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar. 
Add  yolks  of  three  eggs*  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two 
of  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants.  Mix  three  and 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  with  three  and  three-fourth  cups  of 
flour  and  add  to  mixture.  Just  before  putting  in  the  well-greased  pan  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  c>f  three  eggs. 

Romeo  and  Juliet  Cake. 

Dark  Part, — Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one-half  cup 
melted  chocolate,  and  one  cup  of  flour  to  which  has  been  added  one  tea< 
spoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Light  Part. — Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  together.  Tlicn  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  flour  to  which  has 
been  added  oJie  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake 
in  separate  tins  and  spread  this  custard  between  when  custard  gets  cold 
Bring  to  a  boiling  point  one  pint  of  milk.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  rub  smooth;  then  add  one-half  cup  ok 
sugar  and  after  beating  well  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  until  it  boils  well, 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  set  away  to  cool.    Fine. 

Minnehaha  Cake. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  pulveriztd 
sugar,  two  and  a  quarter  cups  of  flour,  three-fourtlis  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three* 


.   > 


124 


CAKES. 

Citron  Cake. 


Cream  three  cups  of  white  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter  together;  add 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
with  four  cups  and  .a  half  of  flour.  One  cup  and  a  half  of  citron,  sliced  very 
thin  and  dredged  with  flour.  Divida  into  two  cakes  and  bake  in  tins  lined 
with  paper. 

Loaf  Dutch  Cakb. 

One  cupful  of  light  bread  dough,  one  egg,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  and,  if  desired,  a  little, 
butter  and  nutmeg;  work  very  smooth,  let  it  rise  about  half  an  hour,  and 
bake  as  bread. 

Dominoes. 

Have  a  plain  cake  baked  in  rather  thin  sheets.  When  cold,  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  into  small  oblong  pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  a  domino,  only 
a  trifle  larger.  Frost  the  top  and  sides.  When  the  frosting  is  hard,  draw 
the  black  lines  and  make  the  dots,  with  a  small  brush  dipped  in  melted 
chocolate.    These  are  nice  for  children's  parties. 


Spice  Drop  Cakes. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  half-cup  of  lard,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-halt 
cup  of  sweet  jnilk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Spices  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Drop  on  buttered  paper  on  tins,  and 
bake  very  quickly* 

^  Walnut  Wafers. 

On3-half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  walnut  meats,  slightly 

broken  but  not  chopped,  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  one-fourth 

'  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs ; 

beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  flour,  and  lastly  meats.    Drop  small 

spoonfuls  on  buttered  pans,  aiid  bake  till  brown. 

^  Cocoanut  Cookies. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  grated  cocoa* 
nut,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  roll.  Roll  very  thin, 
bake  quickly  but  do  not  brown. 


Cabaway  Seed  Cakes.  • 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  one  tubIcsi)oonful  of  caraway  seed,  lialf  a  pint  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  saleratus ;  rub  the  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together  thoroughly, 
tlien  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  cut  with  a  round 
cutter,  place  tliem  on  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  seems  a  small 
quantity  of  milk,  but  after  kneading  it  a  little  while  it  will  be  found  quite 
suflicient;  to  add  more  would  spoil  them. 

Rochester  Ginger  Snaps. 

'  One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  cup  of  butter,  one 
toaspooiiful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Hiiil  this  together  from  Ave  to  eight  minutes;  let  it  cool;  then  mix  with 
flour  and  roll  very  thin.  Cut  into  strips  one  inch  wide,  and  three  inches 
long.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Hermits. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  seeded  chopped  raisins,  a  very  little  citron  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon ;  flour  enough  to  roll.  These  will  keep 
like  fruit  cake. 

Jumbles. 

One  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  tablespoon tulb 
of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  nutmeg  grated,  yanilla  ex* 
tnict  to  suit  taste.  Flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Sprinkle  over 
with  sugar  and  cut  into  cakes. 

CocoANUT  Jumbles. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs, 
one  cocoanut.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  eggs  till  light,  then 
add  your  cocoanut,  then  flour;  roll  on  a  board  lightly  with  your  hand,  and 
shape  into  rings ;  keep  about  a  half  cup  of  flour  to  roll  with. 

Shrewsbury  Cakes. 

One-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  and  a  ha^J 
of  flour,  one  egg.    Roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  small  cakes. 

Ginger  Snaps.    No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter  or  shortening,  heated  and 
added  to  molasses*  one-half  cup  of  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  three 


12a 


VAKkH. 


teaspooiifuls  of  ginger,  one  knd  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon*    Ploaf 
enough  to  roll  out  soft.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Ginger  Snaps.    No.  2. 

Boil  one  quart  of  molasses  twenty  minutes,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  cup  of  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  flour  to  roll  very  thin.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. 

COOKIBS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  lard,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  fifteen  minutes.  If  wished,  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  cakes 
and  pressed  gently  in  with  the  hand  just  before  cutting  out. 

Crullers. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
four  eggs,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flour  to  make  a  nice  dough. 
Roll  it  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
When  brown,  drain,  roll  in  powdered  sugar  and  stand  away  to  cool. 

Lemon  Wafers. 

One-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  juice 
and.  rind  of  two  lemons,  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  six  eggs. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  the  sugar  slowly.  Beat  the  eggs,  without 
separating,  until  creamy,  then  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  well ; 
then  add  the  juice  ^nd  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  the  flour.  Beat  all  until 
smooth  and  light.  Heat  the  wafer  tongs  over  a  clear  flre,  brush  them  lightly 
with*,  melted  butter,  put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture,  close  the 
tongs,  turn  them  over  a  clear  fire  until  the  cake  is  a  light  brown.  When 
done  take  out  carefully,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  roll  around  a  smooth 
stick,  which  remove  carefully  when  cold.  If  you  have  no  tongs,  line  flat 
pans  with  buttered  paper  and  drop  the  mixture  in  by  spoonfuls;  spread  it 
out  very  thin,  and  bake  until  a  light  brown. 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

Old-fashioned  *^ raised  doughnuts'^  are  seldom  seen  nowadays,  but  are 
easily  made.  Make  a  sponge  as  for  bread,  using  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  large 
half  cupful  of  yeast;  when  the  sponge  is  very  light  add  one-half  cupful  of 
butter  or  sweet  lard,  a  small  cupful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  ia 


CAKES.  127 

now  two  well-beaten  eggs,  add  sifted  flour  until  it  is  the  consistencjr  of  bis- 
cuit dough,  knead  it  well,  cover  and  let  rise ;  then  roll  the  dough  out  into  a 
sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  very  small  biscuit-cutter,  or  in  stripp 
half  an  inch  wide  and  three  inches  long,  nlace  them  on  greased  tins,  covei 
them  well,  and  let  them  rise  before  frying  them.  Drop  them  in  very  hot 
lard.  Raised  cakes  require  longer  time  than  cakes  made  with  baking  powder. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  as  fast  as  they  are  fried  while  warm. 

Breakfast  Doughnuts. 

These  doughnuts,  eaten  fresh  and  warm,  are  a  delicious  breakfast  dlili, 
and  are  quickly  made.  Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  piD««*«w  mmmmm 
milk,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  permit  tlie  spoon  to  stand  f«Kfinm«  n 
the  mixture;  add  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  to  «nHA  w>iNr« 
beat  all  until  very  light.    Drop  by  the  dessertspoonful  into  boilijAH^wNni. 

Ginger  Cakes   (Excellent). 

One  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  pint  of  buttermilh^''^9»  sonr 
milk — ^two  cups  of  lard  or  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  soda,  i«m^ 
spoonfuls  of  ginger  i  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Place  ntf) 
and  soda  in  a  large  bread  pan  and  pour  over  it  the  boiled  molass'v. 
emptying  the  molasses  put  the  buttermilk  in  the  same  skillet,  let  T>oU  and 
pour  it  over  the  molasses,  ginger,  and  soda ;  stir  in  all  the  flour  possible 
a  f tcr  which  stir  in  the  lard  or  butter ;  when  cold,  mold  with  flour  and  cut 
in  cakes. 

Dbop  Cake. 

One  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  three  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  flour.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  then  the  flour,  and  lastly  the  lemon.  Drop 
on  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Seed  Cake. 

Beat  together  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  one-third  cupful  of 
butter;  add  one-half  cupful  of  milk  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  caraway 
seed  and  season  with  nutmeg. 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  molasses, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
oream  of  tartar,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  ol 


V 


A 


powderea  oioves,  one  pound  of  seeded  raUins  chopped  fine,  one  cupful  e( 
oold  strong  coffee.     Makes  two  loaves. 

ClHNAMOM  COOKIEa. 
Two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  add  a  little  salt,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  sodit  dissolved  in  water,  two  small  cups 
our.  Mix  soft  and  roll  thin.  Sprinkle  su^nr  on  top  and  put  cinnaninu 
:hem  after  they  are  ciit  and  in  the  pan.  A  blanched  almond  in  centre 
aoh  makes  ihem  nicer  and  daintier.  To  hlnnch  almonde,  pour  boiling 
9r  over  them,  let  them  stand  a  minute,  then  dip  iii  oold  water,  when  the 
s  may  be  easily  slipped  off. — Mru.  Lilla  Palmt— 

ICIHQ3  AND  FlLLINQ  FOB  LaTER  CAEEB. 
When  making  custards  for  filing  it  is  a  good  nlaa  lo  place  the  pan  in 
another  pan  of  boiling  water  to  prevent  burning. 

Cream  Filling. 
Bring  one-half  pint  of  milk  to  boiling  ponit,  add  two  small  teaspoonfuls 
of  oornstarch,  mixed  with  one  well-beaten  egg,  ana  ona-nalf  cup  of  gran* 
ulated  sugar.     Add  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.     When  aimost  cold  spread 
between  layers. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling. 
Make  the  same  aa  cream  filling.     When  done  dissolve  five  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  grated  ohocolata  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.    Do  not  stir  it.  When 
melted  add  to  the  cream  filling  and  set  to  cool. 

Fia  Filling. 
Take  a  pound  of  figs,  chop  fine,  and  put  into  a  stewpan ;  pour  over 
them  a  teacupful  of  water,  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar.    Cook  together  unUI 
.  Boft'and  smooth.    When  cold,  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 

Nut  Filling. 
One  oup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water.  Boil  together 
nntil  sti^  Dot  brittle,  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Beat  the  whites  of  two 
e^s  to  a  froth.  Turn  on  the  boiling  sugar.  Beat  hard  until  a  cream.  Mix 
one  large  cupfat  of  chopped  walnut  kernels  with  two-thirds  of  this  cream, 
and  spread  between  the  layers.  Spread  the  remaining  third  over  the  top 
and  press  into  it,  while  moist,  whole  halves  of  the  walnut  kernels  for  orna- 
ment.   Hickory  nuts  may  be  used  instead  of  walnuts. 


CAREa  129 

Jelly  Pilling. 

Beat  jelly- up  smooth  and  spread  it  between  la3'era  before  they  are  quite 
•old. 

Plain  Icing. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
powdered  sugar  and  one  teaspuonful  of  flavoring.  Use  at  ouoe  or  sit  iu  a 
eool  place  until  wanted* 

Boiled  Icing. 

Put  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  anfl  three  tnblespoonfuls  of  cold  watex 
In  a  pan.  Stir  and  put  on  stove  where  it  will  dissolve  slowly.  After  it  has 
dissolved  put  over  a  moderate  fire  (do  not  stir)  and  boil  until  it  hairs.  (See 
introduction  to  cakes.)  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
the  boiled  sugar,  beating  all  the  while.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen  add  the 
flavoring,  (a  teaspoonful)  and  beat.  When  quite  thick  and  h^ore  cold  it  ii 
ready  for  use* 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Put  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  and 
one  whole  egg  together  in  a  dish.  Mix  well  together.  Do  p^ot  beat  egg  be- 
fore adding  to  sugar  and  chocolate.  Dip  a  broad  knife  in  baling  water  and 
spread  icing  over  cake.  Aucther  method  is  to  make  a  boiled  icing,  dissolve 
the  chocolate  in  a  dish  set  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  and  stir  into  the 
boiled  icing  when  melted.  Do  not  stir  chocolate  much  while  melting  or  it 
will  cake. 

Ouanqe  Icing. 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoon fuls  of  cold  water  as  directed 
in  recipe  for  boiled  icing,  and  when  it  hairs,  add  to  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
that  have  been  beaten  very  light.     Beat  until  quite  thick,  but  not  cold,  and 
add  one  tablespoonful  (»f  orange  extract,  or  a  little  of  the  juice  and  rind  of ' 
an  orange,  and  a  smaller  amount  of  tlie  juice  and  rind  of  %  lemon. 

Lemon  Icing. 

It  is  made  the  same  as  orange  icing,  using  a  larger  quantity  of  lemou 
{nice  and  grated  rin>i  and  a  smaller  amount  of  orange.  Or  make  a  plain 
loing  flavoring  with  ih^  lemon  extract,  or  juica  aud  rind,  adding  a  little  of 
the  orange. 


CAKES.      ' 
Lbuon  Jellt  Filuno. 
her  one  oup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon  fuls  ot  butter,  two 
of  two  lemons,  and  boil  until  tbe  consistency  of  jelly. 
Put  on  cake  when  cold.    For  orange  jelly,  use  oranges  instead  of  lemons. 

COCOANUT  loiNQ. 

Make  a  boiled  icing  as  directed,  adding  tbree-fourths  of  a  oup  of  grated 
,  oocoanut.  Stir  well  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Hare  another  half  oup  of 
ooooanut  ready  to  spread  over  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Press  gently  into  tbe 
loing  with  a  broad  knifo  that  it  will  not  &tll  off. 


^'    t 


I 


PUDDINGS  AKD  DESSERT& 


Gelatins  Ohablotte  Russb. 

One  pint  of  cream,  whipped  light,  one-half  ounce  gelatine,  dissolved 
in  one  gill  of  hot  milk,  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  small 
teacup  of  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  with  bitter  almond  or  vanilla.  Mix 
cream,  eggs,  sugar,  flavor  and  beat  in  the  gelatine  and  milk  last.  It  should 
be  quite  cold  before  it  is  added.  Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  sponge  cake 
or  lady  fingers  and  fill  with  the  mixture.    Set  upon  ice  to  oqoL 

Spanish  Cbbam. 

Dissolve  one-half  of  a  box  of  Cox*s  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  milk  for 
one  hour.  Add  one  more  pint  of  milk  and  let  just  come  to  boil  in  a  farina- 
boiler.  Beat  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  together  and 
add  to  pan.  Let  just  come  to  a  boil,  take  from  the  fire,  pour  in  pan  and  add 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  stirring  briskly.  Flavor  mixture  to  taste  in  paa 
This  should  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  served.  Eat  ice  cold  with  good 
cream.-^Jifrs.  Clark*  *  ^ 

French  Cbbah. 

Make  the  same  as  Charlotte  Russe,  turn  into  a  fancy  mould  that  has 
been  dipped  in  cold  water  and  stand  away  to  harden. 

Hamburg  Cbeam. 

Five  eggs,  two  lemons,  one-half  pound  of  sifted  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks 
with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons,  also  the  sugar;  put  it  on  in  a 
farina  kettle,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  hastily  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Stir  all  well  together ;  take  immediately  off  the  fire  and 
put  in'  eight  glasses. 

j  OoFsiBE  Bayabian  Cbeam. 

Onc(-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  pint  of  cream,  one^alf  pint  of  milk,  one  tea- 
q^on6]|i  off  vanilla,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  stro^ng  bdiling  coffee.     Cover 

(181> 


r 


y 


S  AND  DESSERTS. 

a  half  bour ;  then  pour  over  it  the  bofl!ng 
intil  it  is  dissolved ;  then  strain  into  a  tin 
hile'it  is  cooling,  whip  the  cream.  When 
in  the  whipped  cream  ;  stir  carefulljr  until 
luld,  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 

Chooolatb  Bavabian  Orbam. 
One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  creaib,  on&-haIf  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  box 
of  gelatine,  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one-half  cup 
of  oold  water.  Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  water  and  let  soak  half  an  hour. 
Whip  the  oream,  grate  and  melt  the  chocolate  over  n  steaming  kettle  put 
the  milk  on  to  boil ;  when  boiling,  add  the  chocolate  and  gelatine,  stii-  until 
dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire,'  add  the  sugar  and  vanilla,  then  turn  into  a 
tin  basin  to  cool ;  stir  continuallj  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the 
whipped . cream.  Stir  carefully, until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  turn  into  a 
mould  to  harden.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Raspbeery  Bavabian  Cbeah. 
Soak  one-half  I  box  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  for  one-half 
hour.  Stand  the  gelatine  over  boiling  water  till  dissolved  thoroughly,  then 
add  one-half  cup  of^  sugar  and  one  pint  of  raspberry  juice.  Strain  in  tie 
basin  and  place  on  ice ;  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  carefully  one  pint  of 
oream  which  has  been  whipped  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Put  in  mould 
and  stand  in  cold  place.  One  pint  of  canned  pinenppW  or  of  the  fresh  pine- 
apple grated  may  be  used  instead  of  ^raspberries 

Obanqb  Cbeau. 
Whip  one  pint  of  cream.  Soak  In  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  a  half 
]Mckage  of  gelatine,  and  then  grate  over  it  the  rind  of  two  oranges.  To 
'  the  juice  of  six  oranges,  add  a  cupful  of  sugar;  now  put  a  teacnpful  of 
-  cream  into  a  double  boiler,  pour  into  it  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  $ggs, 
stirring  nntil  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  gelatine.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  let  it  stand  for  two  minutes  and  add  the  oi-ange  juice  and  sugar;  beat 
all  together  until  about  the  consistency  of  soft  custard,  and  add  the  wliipped 
eream.    Mix  oare^ly  and  turn  into  moulds.    Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

Pbacb  Sponob. 

«4uilf  box  of  gelatine  In  oold  water  one-half  houK  iPare  and 
ind  of  peaohsa  Pot  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cap  6f  boUtog 
l|ie  fire  and  boil  until  clear,  skim,  and  add  the  slivel'pteobaa. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS. 


183 


Stew  until  tender  and  when  done  add  the  gelatine  and  press  all  through  a 
sieve.  Add  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  and  stir  until  cold  and  slightly 
thick.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  the 
peaches,  beat  until  stiff,  then  pour  into  a  mould  to  harden.  Serve  yviik 
peach  or  vanilla  sauce.  Apple  Sponge  is  very  nice  made  by  this  recipe.— « 
R.B.P. 

Cup  Custabds. 

Add  one-half  cup  of  sugar  to  four  eggs  that  have  been  well  beaten  all 
together.  Then  add  one  quart  of  milk  and  a  fourth  of  a  grated  nutmeg. 
Pour  into  custard  cups  and  put  cups  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  the  oven. 
Bake  until  the  custards  are  ^^  set "  in  center.  Take  out  of  the  water  when 
done,  and  serve  ice-cold  in  the  cups. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Put  a  quart  of  .milk  all  but  half  a  cupful  to  boil.  Mix  thred  .table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  two  of  cornstarch,  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the 
half  cup  of  milk ;  when  the  milk  boils  put  these  ingredients  into  it,  and  stir 
constantly  till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  in,  then 
pour  in  a  dish  and  put  on  top  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  two 
eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  flavor ;  put  in  the  oven  to  brown* 

Lemon  Custabd. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
one  pint  of  milk,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon.  After  the  custard  is  baked 
cover  with  icing  and  brown.  Orange  custard  may  be  made  the  same  as* 
lemon  custard. 

Blano  Makge. 

Put  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  on  the  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix 
together  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  cornstarch  to  a  smooth  paste.  Thin  with  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
boiling  milk,  and  add  to  the  remainder  of  milk  in  pan.  Boil  until  thick 
enough,  stirring  all  the  while.  Flavor.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
8tir  gently  into  the  custard.    Serve  very  cold  with  cream. — JB.  B.  P. 

FfiXHT  Blako  Mange. 

One  quart  of  stewed  or  one  can  of  fruit  (cherries,  raspberries,  and 
strawberries  are  best).  Strain  off  all  the  juice,  sweeten  it  to  taste,  and  put 
it  on  to  boil*    Moisten  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  a  little 

;  ■  -■     • 


.X 


^ 


riTDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS. 

it  into  the  boiling  juice.  Boil  and  continue  stirring  five 
the  fruit,  pour  it  into  a  mold  that  has  been  wet  with  ice* 
.way  to  cool.  Serve  cold,  with  sugar  and  cream.  This 
mold. 

Tapiooa  Cbeiah  Gcstabd. 
aping  tahlespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  tencupful  of  -water 
iTST  the  fire  a  quart  of  milk;  let  St  come  to  a  boil;  then 
a  good  pidch  of  salt ;  stir  until  it  thickens  ;  then  add  a 
d  the  beaten  yolks  of  tliree  eggs.  Stir  it  quickly  and 
1  and  stir  gently  into  the  mixture  the  whites  beaten  stiff, 
et  it  on  ice,  or  in  an  ice-chest. 

Chocolate  Custabd. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  with  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one-half  cupful  of  grated  vanilla  chocolate. 
Boil  until  thick  enough,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  nearly  cold,  flavor 
with  Tanilla.  Pour  into  caps  and  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  with 
some  powdered  sugar,  on  the  top. 

Peach  Leche  Cbeau. 
Twelve  ripe  peaches,  pared,  stoned,  and  cut  in  halves,  three  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  two  more,  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cornstarch,  wet  in  cold  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  anil 
one  pint  of  milk.     Scald  the  milk,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  and  beaten  yolks 
and  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  from  the  Are  and  put  in  the  butter. 
Put  the  peaches  in  a  dish,  strew  with  sugar,  and  pour  the  creamy  compound 
rer  them.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  minutes,  and  spread  with  a  meringue, 
ade  of  five  whites  whipped  stiff  with  a  little  powdered  sugar.    Shut  the 
rea  door  till  this  is  firm.    Eat  cold  with  cream. 

DaNDT  PtIDDINa. 

'  Pat  one  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil.    Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  light, 

_Jd  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  and  rub  smooth,  then  add  one-half 

cupful  of  sugar.     Beat  all  tt^ether,  thin  with  a  little  of  the  milk  and  add 

ilk.    Boil  up  once,  take  from  the  fire,  add  fiavoring,  and  poor 

dish.    Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  add  to 

blespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  heap  on  the  top,  of  the 

it  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  until  a  Hght  brown.  \  Serve 

S.P, 


PtJDDlNcifi  Alfb  Dfisslii&td.  13S 

Bbeab  and  Butteb  Pudding. 

Beat  four  eggs  all  together  light,  add  one  quart  of  milk  and  o;ie-hab 
teacupful  of  sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved  then  pour  in  baking  dish. 
Cut  rusks  in  halves  or  bread  in  slices  and  butter  well,  as  many  as  will  floal 
on  top  of  pudding.    Bake  until  set  in  center.    Serve  cold. 

Apple  Float. 

To  one  pint  of  sweetened  ice-cold  apple  sauce  take  the  whites  of  twf 
eggs.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuk  G4 
sugar,  and  add  to  the  apples.  Beat  all  together  lightly  and  serve  ice-cold 
with  cream. 

GOOSEBBBBY  FoOL. 

Stew  a  quart  of  ripe  gooseberries  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
when  done,  rub  them  through  a  colander ;  while  hot  stir  into  them  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  add  that ;  whip  all  together  until  light.  Fill  a  large  glass  fruit 
dish,  and  spread  on  the  top  the  beaten  whites  mixed  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar.    Apples  or  any  tart  fruits  are  nice  made  in  this  manner.  . 

Bibd's  Nest  Pudding. 

Pare  and  core  without  quartering  enough  quick-cooking  tart  apples  to 
fill  a  pudding-pan,  make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of 
six  eggs,  sweeten,  spice,  pour  over  the  apples,  and  bake;  when  done,  use 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  s'ugar; 
spread  on  the  custard,  brown  lightly,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  If  neces* 
sary,  the  apples  may  be  baked  a  short  time  before  adding  the  custard. 

Willow  Glen  Pudding. 

Press  one  pint  of  stewed  apples  tlurough  a  sieve.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  and  two  cups  of  sugar  together.  Then  add  one  quart  of  milk  and  Savor. 
Add  one-half  cup  of  butter  to  the  hot  apples,  then  mix  with  the  milk  and 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  the  top 
of  the  pudding,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Serve  cold  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

Apple  Tapioca. 

Pick,  wash,  and  cover  with  cold  water  one  cup  of  tapioca,  and  soak  over- 
night.    Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler^  add  the  tapioca  and  boil 


AA  as  much  sweetened  apple  sance  as  yoii 
ler.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  pat  in  the' 
sugar  and  cream. 

Peach  Tapioca. 

.  Wash  and  pick  one  cup  of  tapioca  and  soak  in  cold  water  overnight 
'n  the  morning  put  it  over  the  Bre  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
[ently  until  it  Is  perfectly  clear.  Stir  the  peaches,  wliicli  have  been  stoned 
Lud  cut  in  small  pieces  into  the  tapioca,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  boil  up 
>nce,  take  from  stove  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  ice-cold  with  sugar  and 
tream.  Sufficient  for  eight  persons.  By  using  &  quart  of  seeded  cherries, 
'aspberries,  or  strawberries  a  very  nice  dessert  is  made.  . 

Tapioca  PuDDnia. 

One-half  cupful  of  instantaneous  tapioca,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  little 
lalt;  mix  and  stir  into  one  quart'of  hot  milk,  then  add  thi-ee  beaten  eggs, 
)ne  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  flavoring ;  mix  well  and  bake  in 
>TeQ  slowly  until  brown  and  set.    Serve  hot  with  cream. 

QuAKnia  Cdstaed. 

.  Take  one-fourth  of  a  calfs  rennet,  wash  it  well,  cat  it  in  pieces  and  put 
it  into  a  decanter  with  one  pint  of  Lisbon  wine.  In  a  day  or  two  it  will  be 
St  for  use.  To  one  pint  of  milk  add  one  teaspoonful  of  the  wine ;  sweeten 
the  milk  and  Savor  it  with  vanilla,  rose-water  or  lemon ;  warm  it  a  little  and 
add  the  wine,  stirring  it  slightly;  pour  it  immediately  into  cups  or  glasses, 
and  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  become  a  custard.  It  makes  a  firmer  curd  to 
put  in  the  wine,  omitting  the  sugar.  It  may  be  eaten  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

Cbbah  for  Fbdit. 

Tiiie  recipe  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  jHire  cream,  to  be  eaten  on 
fresh  berries  and  fruit.  One  cupful  of  sweet  milk  ;  heat  it  until  boiling. 
Beat  together  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  white  eugar,  and  a 
pieoe  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Now  add  half  a  cupful  of  cold  milk 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch ;  stir  well  together  until  very  light  and 
smooth,  then  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk  ;  cook  it  until  it  thickens ;  it  must 
not  boil.  Set  it  aside  to  cool.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  real  fresh 
cream.    Serve  in  a  oieameT. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS.  /  187 

IcBD  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  one  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with  sugar  and  a  little  butter 
and  nutmeg;  bake,  and  when  done,  let  cool,  and  remove  to  another  plate, 
if  it  can  be  done  without  breaking  them  (if  not,  pour  off  the  juice).  Ice 
tops  and  sides  with  caking-ice,  and  brown  lighUy  ;  serve  with  cream* 

Iced  Cxtbrants. 

One-quarter  pint  of  water,  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  currants,  pounded 
sugar.  Select  very  fine  bunches  of  red  or  white  currants,  and  well  beat  the ' 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix  these  with  water  ;  then  take  the  currants,  a  bunch 
at  a  time,  and  dip  them  in ;  let  them  drain  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  roll 
them  in  very  finely-pounded  sugar.  Let  them  dry  on  paper,  when  the 
sugar  will  crystallize  round  each  currant,  and  have  a  very  pretty  effect.  AH 
fresh  fruit  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner;  and  a  mixture  of  various^ 
fruits  iced  in  this  manner,  and  arranged  on  one  dish,  looks  very  well  for  a 
summer  dessert. 

Baked  Apples. 

Pare  six  large,  smooth,  sweet  apples.  Dig  out  the  stems  and  blossom 
ends,  set  in  baking-pan  in  one-half  tcacupful  of  cold  water.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  tender.  Serve  cold  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

Boiled  Apples. 

Wipe  six  large  sweet  apples,  and  remove  the  cores  without  paring. 
Place  in  a  stewing-pan  with  one  teacupful  of  water.  Fill  the  center  with 
sugar,  cover  tightly  and  boil  until  tender.  Serve  cold  with  sugar  anil 
oream. 

Floating  Islands. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Scald 
the  milk,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  one  of  the  whites  together  with  the 
sugar.  First  stir  into  them  a  little  of  the  scalded  milk  to  prevent  curdling, 
then  all  of  the  milk.  Cook  it  the  proper  thickness  ;  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  flavor ;  when  cool  pour  it  into  a  glass  dish.  Beat  up  the  remaining  four 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  z,  stiff  froth,  and  beat  into  them  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar;  take  a  tablespoon  and  drop  spoonfuls  of  this  over  the  top  of  the*' 
custard,  far  enough  apart  so  that  the  '*  little  white  islands  '*  will  not  touch 
each  other.  By  dropping  a  teaspoonful  of  bright  jelly  on  the  top  or  center 
of  each  island,  a  pleasing  effect  is  produced* 


i 


PDSDIHGa  AND  DESSEBTS. 
PEA.OH  MeBTNGUX. 

quarter  (removing  Btoaes)  a  qaart  of  ripe  peaches ;  place  them 
itable  to  place  on  the  table.  Sprinkle  the  peaches  with  sugar, 
m  well  with  the  beaten  whites  of  three  e^s.  Stand  the  dish 
)til  a  delicate  brown,  then  remove,  and,  when  cool  enough,  set 
:,  or  in  a  very  cool  place.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,,add  to 
)f  milk,  sweeten  and  flavor,  and  boil  same  in  a  custard-kettle, 
o  keep  the  eggs  from  curdling.  When  cool,  pour  into  a  glasi 
rve  with  the  meringue  when  ready  to  use. 

Applb  Mebingub. 
B  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  pieces  of  stale  sponge-cake 
:.  Pare,  and  slice  four  tart  apples,  spread  them  over  tlie  cake, 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  grate  over  a  little  nut> 
i  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Then  make 
rom  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
ir  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  heap  them  over  the  top,  and  put  back 
brown.    Serve  cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

Oranqb  Pudding. 
Slice  five  good>sized  oranges  in  small  pieces,  sugar  each  layer.  Take 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar ;  pour  this  custard  over  the  oranges  while  hot.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  whites '  of  the  e^8  with  two  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar.  To  he  eaten 
cold.    Peaches  are  very  nice  made  in  this  way. 

Cat  five  sweet  oranges  in  a  dish  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  Take  one  pint 
of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  let  it 
oome  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  oranges.  Then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stifi 
froth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.     Spread  it  over  the  top  and  brown. 

Fbuit  Shortcake. 
One  quart  of  fiour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfult 
of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  piut  of  milk.  Sift  the 
four,  salt,  and  powder  together,  rub  in  the  butter  cold ;  add  the  milk,  and 
mix  to  a  smooth  dough,  just  soft  enough  to  handle  ;  divide  in  half,  roll  out. 
«nd  bake  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Separate  the  cakes  without  cutting  them, 
as  cutting  makes  them  heavy.  Cover  the  lower  half  of  cake  with  straw- 
bttrries,  blackberries,  raspberries,  sliced  peaches,  or  other  fruit ;  sugar  plenti' 
fully,  place  on  other  hol^  cover  with  fruit  and  sugar.    Serve  with  cream. 


PUDDmaS  AND  D£SSfi&tS.  Idd 

RiCB  PUDDIKG, 

Wash  one- third  cup  of  rice  and  put  with  one  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil, 
stirring  occasionally  to  keep  from  burning.  When  thick  as  cream,  pour  into 
pudding-pan,  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  put  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  oold^— 
B.B.P. 

DniBD  Currant  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  currants  cleaned  and  dried,  one  pound  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  half  a  pound  of  wheat  flour  or  bread-crumbs,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ginger,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  make  it  moist  with  milk, 
work  it  well  together,  tie  it  in  a  pudding  bag,  and  boU  for  two  hours  >  serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Plum  Pudding  without  Eggs. 

This  delicious  light  pudding  is  made  by  stirring  thoroughly  together  the 
following  ingredients :  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  one  of  chopped,  seeded  raisins,  one  of  well-washed  currants,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  small  spoonful  of  salt,  one  small  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon  and  soda,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  tliree  cups  of  fiour.  Put  into 
a  well-greased  pudding  mold  or  a  three-quart  pail,  and  cover  closely.  Set 
this  pail  into  a  larger  kettle,  close  covered,  and  half  full  of  boiling  water,  ad- 
ding boiling  water  as  it  boils  away..  Steam  not  less  than  four  hours.  This 
pudding  is  sure  to  be  a  success,  and  is  quite  rich  for  one  containing  neither 
eggs  nor  butter.  One-half  of  the  above  amount  is  more  than  eight  persons 
would  be  able  to  eat,  but  it  is  equally  good  some  days  hiter,  steamed  again 
for  an  hour,  if  kept  closely  covered  meantime.  Serve  with  any  hot  sweet 
sauce.    See  pudding  sauces.  ^ 

Plum  Pudding. 

Beat  six  yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs  very  light,  then  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk.  Stir  in  gradually  one-quarter  pound  of  bread -crumbs,  one 
pound  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  one  pound  each 
of  beef  suet,  grated,  currants,  nicely  washed  and  dried,  raisins,  seeded  and 
well  floured.  Stir  well,  then  add  two  nutmegs,  grated,  a  tablespoonful  of 
cinnamon,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  finally  another  cup  of  milk.  Boil  in 
mold  or  buckets  five  hours.  When  wanted  boil  one  hour.  One  pound  of 
citron  or  blanched  sweet  almonds  adds  much  to  the  richness  of  the  pudding. 
Serve  hot  with  a  hot  sauce.    See  pudding  sauces. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half 
oupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  large  teaspoon^ 


\:;^;-ia^'y'^f 


HD  DESSERTS. 

loQr ;  a  littlft  salt.  Rub  the  butter  and 
:;he  milk,  tb«  salt,  and  flour.  Beat  the 
:e  in  a  buttered  mold ;  turn  out  upon  a 
[id  eauce.    Tbis  is  a  simple  but  very 

Boiled  ob  Steam. 
il  of  Bweet  milk,  sifted  flour  enough  to 
ifuls  of  bilking  powder,  a  pincb  of  salt, 
ed  in.    Boil  one  hour,  or  steam,  and 

cherries,  or  any  tart  fruit  is  nice  used 
lUce. 

Pudding. 

cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one- 

ir  with  part  of  milk,  then  add  remainder 

sugar  while  hot ;  when  cool  add  yolks 

UL  cgga  wdi  ucuLDu,  Liinii  ucuLcu  wiiiies  and  stlr  thoroughly.     Bake  in  two 

quart  basin ;  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  one-half  hour.     Delicious.     Serve  with 

a  hot  sauce.    See  pudding  sauces. 

;  Beows  Bettt. 

^are, '  core,  and  slice  six  or  seven  tart  apples.  Put  a  layer  of  stale 
-crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  Imking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  apples, 
another  layer  of  bread-orumbs,  and  another  layer  of  apples,  and 
1  Qntil  all  is  used,  having  the  last  layer  crumbs.  Add  half  a  cupful 
iter  to  a  balf-cupful  of  molasses,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown 
';  pour  it  'over  the  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour, 
serve  hot,  with  sweetened  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

Sugarless'  Bread  Pudddtq. 
Soak  tvo  even  oops  of  crumbs  in  three  cups  of  milk,  while  beating  two 
eggs  long  and  light  (separately).  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter 
and  cinsamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste  to  the  crumbs ;  then  a  bit  of  soda  the  size 
of  a  pea  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  beat  to  a  smooth  pulp.  Lastly  stir  in 
the  e^B.  Beat  all  one  minute  and  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake 
until  a  light  brown  and  "set"  in  the  middle.  Eat  while  warm  with  hot 
lemoQ  saace. 


PUDDING  SAUCE& 


Crbaming  butter  and  sugar  for  sauces  should  always  be  done '  in  an 
earthen  dish  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon.    Tin  or  iron  discolors.       ^ 

Sweet  cream  used  as  a  puddhig  sauce  is  one  of  the  most  wholesome,  as 
well  as  most  convenient  dressings,  suitable  to  almost  every  pudding,  nour- 
ishing and  agreeable  to  the  invalid  as  well  as  the  epicure.  It  cannot  occupy 
too  large  a  place  in  the  culinary  department.  It  may  be  served  plain,  or 
white  sugar  may  be  sent  round  with  it.    Flavoring  is  sometimes  used.  . 

In  making  sauces  do  not  boil,  after  the  butter  is  added.  In  place  of 
wine  or  brandy,  the  juice  of  the  grape  or  any  other  fruit  will  be  found  most 
delicious.  In  flavoring  with  orange  and  lemon  juice,  use  half  and  half,  ex- 
ercising care  to  add  the  lemon  juice  just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  as  it 
is  apt  to  grow  bitter  with  long  cooking.  When  using  cornstarch,  stir  ii 
with  the  sugar  while  dry,  and  no  lumps  will  forpi.  Sauce  may  be  served 
either  poured  over  or  around  the  pudding,  and  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

Plain  Sauce. 

Beat  one  egg  very  light  and  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  sweetened  milk. 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon,  or  nutmeg.  Nice  for  cornstarch,  blano  mange 
or  rice  plain  boiled,  or  a  simple  rice  pudding. 

Sweet  Sauce. 

« 

One  coffee-ciipful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  all  together  until  it  becomes  the  consist- 
ency  of  syrup.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.,  A  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice  is  an  improvement.    Nice  with  cottage  pudding. 

•  r 

Lemon  Sauce. 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  butter,  one  egg  beaten 
light,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch  ;  put  in  a  tin  basin  and  thicken  over  the  fire,  stirr* 
all  the  while.    Serve  in  a  boat.  . 

(141> 


i  SAtrcea. 

If  Sauob,  Hot. 
the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  stir  into  H 
ounces  of  sugar  -and  the  well-beaten 
a  the  fire  and  b.dd  the  grated  rind  and 
nd  serve  hot  in  a  sauce  tureen. 


31  Sauce,  Hot. 

1  eauce,  substituting  two  oranges  for 
hese  sauces,  it  should  boil  in  milk  three 


Vanilla  Saucb. 

One  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  the  sugar  together  until  light,  then  add  them  to  the  boiling  milk,- 
stir  over  the  fire  for  two  minutes.  Take  off,  add  the  vanilla,  and  put  away 
tooool. 

Whipped  Cbeah  Sadob.   . 
Whip  8  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  e^s, 
ten  to  taste ;  place  pudding  in  center  of  dish,  and  surround  with  the 
) ;  or  pile.ap  ia  the  center  and  surround  with  moulded  blanc  mange,  or 
puddings. 

Caramel  SAtrcB. 

Put  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  an  iron  pan  over  a  quick  fire. 
Until  the  sugar  melts  and  turns  an  amber  color,  then  add  one  cupful  of 
rater,  let  boil  two  minutes,  and  turn  out  to  cool. 

Hard  Saccb. 

Beat  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  to  a 

eraam.    Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  a^ld  gradually  to 

tha  creamed  butter  and  sugar.    Beat  all  until  very  light  and  frothy,  than 

^  gradually  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  beat  again.    Heap  on  a  small 

-irinkle  lightiy  with  grated  nutmeg  and  stand  away  on  the  ice  to 


PUDDING   SAUCE&  148 

Saugb  for  Plum  Pudding. 

One-half  oupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  grated 
nutmeg,  one  pint  of  water,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Rub  butter  and 
sugar  together,  add  water,  nutmeg  and  lemon.  Stir  over  tlie  fire  until  it 
boils.    Serve  hot. 

*  » 

Maplb  Saugb. 

Cut  one-half  pound  of  maple  sugar  in  bits  and  dissolve  In  one-quarter 
oupful  of  boiling  water.  Set  over  a  fire  to  melt  quickly.  Stir  in  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  cut  in  bits.  One  cupful  of  maple  syrup  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  sugar.  Flavor,  if  liked,  with  grated  nutmeg.  Nice  for  dump* 
lings,  batter-puddings,  etc. 

Dominion  Sauob. 

'Bring  the  juice  poured  from  a  can  of  peaches  to  a  boil.  Dissolve  one 
tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water,  add  to  the 
juice,  boil  two  minutes  and  stir  in  one  small  cupful  of  sugar.  This  sauce 
is  served  with  peach  batter  pudding,  and  may  be  used  with  any  other.  The 
joioe  of  preserved  fruit  makes  nice  sauce. 

Pbach  Sauub. 

Four  large,  mellow  peaches,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
water,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  cup  of  cream,  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Pare  and  stone  the  peaches ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  witli  the 
water  and  sugar,  stew  until  tender,  then  press  them  through  a  colander. 
Put  the  cream  on  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler ;  moisten  the  cornstarch  in  a  lit- 
tle cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream ;  stir  until  it  thickens ;  then 
beat  into  it  the  peaches  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Stand  in  a  eold  place  until  very  cold.  Apricot  sauce  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner,  using  canned  apricots. 

GOOSBBBBBY  CBBAK. 

Stew  one  quart  of  gooseberries  with  two  cupfuls  of  white  sugar.  When 
donei  strain  through  a  sieve.  Make  a  boiled  custard  as  follows :  One  quart 
of  mlUc,  three  eggs,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and  stir  the  gooseberries 
thrcfugh  this.  Serve  in  a  deep  glass  dish.  One-half  cupful  of  creajB  may 
be  whipped  and  piled  over  the  top  if  the  dish  is  wished  efipeciallv  nice. 


JDDING   SAUCES.  "* 

Feute  Satjoe. 

of  raspberries,  strawberries  or  peaches,  a  table' 

I  a  cupful  of  water.     Boil  all  togetlier  ulowly, 

it  rises ;  then  Gtrain.     This  is  excellent  served 
;  in  &ct  ifi  good  with  many  puddings. 

EBANOB  FOAU  SaUOB. 

i,  white  sugar  with  butter,  until  very  light,  in 

ful  of  butter  to  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  flavor 

with  essence  of  lemon  or  bitter  almonds ;  fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  set 

the  howl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  atir  it  till  hot.    It  will  rise  in  a  wlittA 

foam  to  the  top  of  the  bowl. 

Jellt  ■  Sauob. 
Meltoneounce  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grape  jelly  over  the  fire 
'  in  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  into  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  half  cup  of  cold  water ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.    Any  other  fruit  jelly  may  be  used  instead  of  grape. 

ViNBGAB  Sauob. 

Brown  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  s&ucepan ;  add  one  tablespoon- 

ful  of  fiour  and  rub  smooth ;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  stir  . 

until  it  boils.    Add  one  half  cup  of,  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  caramel  and 

hnil  ^sin ;  then  add  one-half  cup  of  vinegar  and  serve.    See  caramel  sauce 

•  making  carameL 

Cbbau  Sauob. 
To  one  pint  of  cream,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and 
e  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.    Stir  until  tlie  sugar  is  dissolved.    Add  one 
itted  nutmeg  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  wasted. 

Rosbuont  Sauob. 
Soak  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water.^  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
together  until  light  and  add  to  one  pint  of  boiling  cream  or  milk.  Stir  un- 
til it  thicken^  add  the  gelatine  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved.  Add  flavoring 
after  you  take  it  from  the  fire.    Mix  well  and  stand  avray  to  cooU 


HOT  PUDDINGS  AOT)  DUMP- 
LINGS. 


Boiled  Apple  DiTHPLiijrGS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one-quarter  pound  of  suet  or  lard,  one  teaspoonful 
of  saU,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  the  flour»  cold  vfvJbQX 
enough  to  make  into  a  tolerably  stiff  paste.  Roll  out,  cut  into  squares,  put 
in  the  midde  of  each  a  fine,  juicy  apple,  pared  and  cored.  Close  the  paste, 
tie  up  in  the  cloths,  when  you  have  wet  them  with  hot  water  and  floured 
them,  and  boil  one  hour,  or  until  apples  are  done.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

A  pleasing  idea  for  dumpling  cloths  is  to  crochet  them  m  a  close  stitch 
with  stout  tidy  botton.    They  are  easily  done,  wash  and  wear  well,  and  leave  , 
a  very  pretty  pattern  upon  the  paste  when  they  are  opened*      Crochet  them 
round,  with  a  cord  for  drawing  run  into  the  outer  edge. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

Roll  out  the  paste  thin,  cut  it  into,  squares  of  four  inched,  lay  on  each 
a  good  tart  apple,  pared  and  cored ;  wet  the  four  corners  of  tfie  paste,  and 
bring  them  to  the  top  of  the  apple  and  fasten,  sift  sugar  over  thepi,  lay  on  a 
bilking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes  or  until  apples  are 
done.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream  while  hot.  Peach,  strawberry,  or  buckle- 
berry  dumplings  are  made  as  npple  dumplings.  When  done  they  may  be 
brushed  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  two 
or  three  minutes* 

Bread  Pudding. 

When  molding  wheat  bread  for  the  last  time,  reserve  a  piece  for  your 
pudding.  Lay  on  a  cloth  in  your  steamer  and  let  rise.  Two^ hours  before 
wanted  to  serve,  lap  the  cloth  gently  around  it  and  put  the  steamer 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  steam  two  hours,  or  a  delicious  boiled  pud- 
ding may  be  made  by  placing  the  bread  in  a  tight  kettle  and  after  letting 
rise,  tie  down  the  lid  very  tight  and  boil  two  hours  in  a  kettle  of  watcCi 
99rve  hot  with  any  kind  of  fruit  added  as  served.    Very  nice. — i2.  JS,  P. 

.10  '  C140 


res  AND  DUMPLINGS. 
'OPOVBRB. 

a  cup  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
of  baking  powder,  pinob  of  Bait.    Bake  in 

E^UDBINO  WITH  ChEBEIEB. 
s  of  flour,'  three  eggs,  one-balf  tehspoonful 
id  butter,  two  heaping  teaspooufuls  of  bak< 
cherries.  Beat  tho  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
the  milk,  then  the  Hour,  and  beat  until 
elted,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Drain  the 
,  stir  them  into  tho  pudding,  and  turn  into 
,  stand  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  boil 
the  water  evaporates  in  the  pot,  add  more 
Sauce.  Strawberry,  blackberry,  and  rasp- 
he  same  way. 

BOBO  Podding. 

louit,  using  one  quart  of  flour.    Divide  the 

}ut  to  the  thickness  of  a  half  inch.     Place 

one  on  cop  oi  me  oiner  ana  oaKe  about  a  half  hour.     When  done,  take  out, 

separate  the  two  layers,  and  put  canned  or  freshly  stewed  fruit  between  and 

■  on  top.    Very  nice. — B.  B.  P. 

Bied's  Nest  PtrDDmo.  (Hot.) 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  six  tart  apples  that  have 
been  pared  and  cored.  Mix  together  two  cups  of  thick  sour  cienm  with 
two  and  a  half  cups  of  Sour,  until  smooth  ;  then  add  one-half  tcaspoonful 
of  soda  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water ;  mix  v  ell  together 
'  and  pour  over  the  apples,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  one  houv. 
Serve  hot,  with  Hard  Sauce. 

Peach  Gobbleb. 
Mix  on«-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  heaping  teaspoonfal  of  baUt^ 
powder  with  one  pint  of  flour.    Rub  this  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.     Beat  one  egg  light  and  to  it  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk. 
Pour  this  into  the  flour  and  beat  thorouglily ;  then  ponr  Into  a  greased  bok- 
ge  enough  to  have  the  batter  about  one  inch  thick.     Have  the 
ned  and  out  into  halves,  put  them  over  the  batter  the  hollow 
II  the  hollow  places  with  sugar  aud  bake  in  a  quick  oven  one- 
Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  peach  sauce. 


HOT  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPUNOd.  147 

Apple  Bolby  Polet. 


*  Slice  tart  apples,  make  rioh  soda  bisouit  dough,  (or  raised  biscuit  do>igh 
may  be  used  if  rolled  thinner),  roll  to  half  au  inch  thick,  and  lay  the  apples 
on  the  prepared  paste  or  crust,  roll  up,  tuck  ends  in,  prick  deeply  with  a 
fork,  lay  in  a  steamer  and  place  oVer  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cook  an  hour 
and  three-quarters.  Cut  across,  and  eat  with  sweetened  cream  or  butter 
ftad  sugar.    Cherries,  dried  fruit  or  any  kind  of  berries  can  be  used. 

Rhubarb,  ob  Pie-Plant  Puddinq. 

Chop  rhubarb  pretty  fine,  put  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  sprinkle  sugar 
over  it ;  make  a  batter  of  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  lialf  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  enough  flour  to  make 
batter  about  as  thick  as  for  cake.  Spread  it  over  the  rhubarb,  and  bake 
till  done.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  upside-down,  so  that  the  rhubard  will  be 
on  top.    Serve  with  sugar  and  oream. 

Fruit  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  any  of  the  small  fruits,  one  pint  of  molasses,  oloi^is  and 
spices  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teacupful  of  warm 
water,  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  pound  cake.  Put  it  into  a  bag  and  boil 
three  hours. 

Baked  Lemon  Puddinq  (Queen  of  Puddings.) 

One  quart  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  breadcrumbs,  four  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  butter  the  sise  of  an  egg,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar, 
one  large  lemon — ^juice  and  grated  rind.  Heat  the  milk  and  pour  over  the 
bread-crumbs,  add  the  butter,  cover  and  let  it  get  soft.  When  cool,  beat 
the  sugar  and  yolks,  and  add  to  the  mixture,  also  the  grated  rind.  Rake  in 
a  buttered  dish  until  firm  and  slightly  brown,  from  half  to  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  When  done,  draw  it  to  the  door  of  the  oven,  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  whipped  to  a  froth  with  four 
tablespoon fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  lemon  juice ,  put  it  back  in  the 
oven  and  brown  a  light  straw  color.    Eat  warm,  with  lemon  sauce. 

Rauhv  Puddinq. 

One  cupful  of  raisins,  one  cupful  of  chopped  suet  or  butter,  one  cupful 
of  molasses  (some  like  one  cupful  of  sugar  with  two  spoonfuls  of  molasses 
better),  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  salti  flour  to  make 
A  stiff  batter ;  steam  three  or  four  hours.    Sauoe» 


/ 


148 


HOT  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGa 

Hasty  Pudding. 


Sei  a  sauoepan  or  deep  frying-pan  on  the  stove,  the  bottom  and  sides 
'^vrell  butteted,  put  into  it  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  as  large  as  half  an  egg ;  when  it  boils  have  ready  a  dish  of  sifted 
flour,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  sifting  it  through  your  fingers,  a  handful 
at  a  time,  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  quite  thick.  Turn  it  into  a  dish  that 
has  been  dipped  in  water.  Make  a  sauce  very  sweet  to  s«erve  with  it. 
Maple  iholasses  is  fine  with  it.  This  pudding  is  much  improve  by  adding 
oanned  berries  or  fresh  ones  just  before  taking  from  the  stove. 

P&AB,  Peach,  and  Apple  Pudding- 

Pare  some  nice,  ripe  pears  (to  weigh  about  three-quartera  oi  a  pound); 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  few  cloves,  some  lemon  or  oranj^e  peel,  and 
stew  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  two  cupfuls  of  water  ;  put  them  in  your 
pudding-dish,  and  make  the  following  custard;  one  pint  of  cream,  or 
milk,  four  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ; 
beat  eggs  and  sugar  well,  add  the  flour,  grate  some  nutmeg,  add  the  cream 
by  degrees,  stirring  all  the  time ;  pour  this  over  the  pears,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Apples  or  peaches  may  be  substituted.  Serve  cold  with 
sweetened  cream. 

Dbied  Peaoh  Pudding. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  and  while  hot  turn  it  over  a  pint  of  bread-crumbs. 
Stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  pint  of  dried  peaches  stewed  soft. 
When  all  is  obol,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  sugar^  and  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  flavor  to  taste.  Put  into  a  well-buttered  pudding^^b,  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 


.  \ 


■^  ■ »     « 


ICE  CREAM  AM)  ICE& 


I  Obakgb  Ics  Cbbam. 

One  quart  of  oream,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  juice  of  five 
oranges,  rind  of  one  orange.  Put  half  of  cream  in  double  boiler,  add  sugar 
and  stir  till  dissolved ;  add  remainder  of  cream,  and  when  cool  add  juice  and 
rind  of  oranges.    Turn  into  freezer,  and  freeze. 

Chocolate. 

One  quart  of  cream  and  one  quart  of  milk,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of  sweet  chocolate.  Put  the 
milk  on  to  heat  in  a  farina  boiler.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  to* 
gether  until  very  light.  Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then 
add  them  to  the  yolks  and  sugar  ;  stir  this  into  the  milk,  and  stir  and  cook 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  chocolate  grated,  and 
stir  into  the  cream.  When  cool,  freeze.  This  is  very  nice  with  whipped 
cream  served  around  it. 

Fbuit  Icb  Caeah. 

Fruit  ice  creams  of  all  kinds  can  be  made  by  allowing  one  quart  of  ber^ 
ries  to  one  pint  of  crenm,  one  pint  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Crush 
all  the  small  fruits  with  the  sugar,  being  guided  as  to  the  amount  of  sugai 
by  the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  If  large  fruits  are  used,  such  as  pears,  pine, 
apples,  peaches,  apples,  etc.,  grate  them,  add  cream  and  milk,  rub  through  a 
fine  strainer  into  the  freezer. 

TuTTi  Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

Two  quarts  of  cream,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  four  whole  eggs ;  mis 
well  together ;  place  on  the  fire,  stirring  constantly,  and  just  bring  to  boil* 
ing  point;  remove  immediately  and  continue  to  stir  until  nearly  cold ;  flavoc 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  orange ;  place  in  freezer  and  when  frozen 
hard  enough  to  pemove  the  dasher,  mix  thoroughly  into  it  one  pound  of  pre* 
served  fruits,  in  equal  parts  of  peaches,  apricots,  cherries,  pineapples,  eto^; 
all  of  these  fruits  are  to  be  cut  up  into  small  pieces,  and  benten  thoroughly 
with  the  froxon  cre^mx.    Cov^r  and  sf*  *'  '  "^ay  to  ripen  for  two  hours. 


KEAU  Am)  ICEa 

Vanilla  Ice  Cbeau. 
One  quart  of  cream,  oiio  pint  of  milk,  one  Tanilla  bean  or  two  table* 
spoonfuls  of  ttie  extract,  one-balf  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar,  half  the 
cream,  and  the  bean  split  in  halves  on  to  boil  in  a  farina  boiler ;  stir  con* 
stantly  for  ten  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  bean,  and  with  a 
blunt  knife  serape  out  the  seeds  and  the  soft  part  from  the  inside  of  the 
bean,  being  careful  not  to  waste  one  drop.  Mix  the  seeds  thoroughly  with 
the  oi'eam,  and  stand  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  remaining  cream* 
and  freeze. 

COPFEB  lOB  CbEAH. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  pound  of  Bugar,  four 
ounces  of  Mocha  or  three  ounces  of  Java.  Have  the  coffee  ground  coaraely ; 
put  it  in  a  farina  boiler  with  one  pint  of  the  cream  and  steep  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  strain  it  through  fine  muslin,  pressing  it  hard  to  get  all  the 
strength.  Add  the  sugar,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  add  the  remaining  pint 
of  cream,  cool,  and  freeze.  Remove  the  dasher,  repack,  covefi  and  stand 
away  for  two  hours  to  ripen.    This  will  serve  six  persons. 

''  Pistachio  Icb  Cbbah. 

Wash  two  quarts  of  spinach  and  throw  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  rapidly  for  three  minutes  and  drain  Id  a  colander,  pounding  the  spinach 
until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Then  squeese  the  juioe  out  through  a  fine  muslin 
bag,  and  set  to  cool.  Blanch  and  pound  one  pound  of  shelled  pistachio 
nuts.  Put  one  quart  of  cream  and  one  pound  of  sngar  on  to  boil,  stirring 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Tlien  add  one  quart  more  of  cream,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  extract  of  almonds,  two  of  vanilla,  the  nuts  and  sufficient  spin- 
aoh  to  make  it  a  light  green.    Freeze  and  pack. 

<■  Bisque  Tce  Cream. 

Pound  and  pnt  through  a  colander  one-quarter  of  a  pountt  of  maoaioons, 
three  lady  fingers  and  four  kisses.  Put  on  to  boil  one  pint  of  cream  and 
one  medium-sized  cup  of  sngar;  stir  until  dissolved.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  set  to  cool,  then  add  another  pint  of  cream  and  freeze.  When  frozen* 
add  the  pounded  cakes,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  one  teaspoonfnl  of 
oaramel,  and  beat  the  whole  until  perfectly  smooth,  when  it  is  ready  to  pock. 

Banana  Tck  Cream. 
-     Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  a  scald  and  add  slowly  to  U  the  yolks  of  ten 
eggs  and  one  pound  of  sugar  which  have  been  beaten  together  until  light. 
Oook  nntU  to  tblekans,  ■tirriugr  oonitantly^    Add  one  quart  of  or*"-—  aad  wt 


ICE  CREAM  AND  ICES.  151 


r 


to  cool.     When  cold  add  eight  bananas  which  have  been  mashed  through  a 
colander.    Freeze  and  pack. 

Poor  Man's  Ice  Cbeam. 

Mix  the  juice  from  three  lemons  with  one  pound  of  sugar  and  add  to  it 
one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  and  one  grated  nutmeg.  Freeze  and 
Pfick. 

Apricot  Water  Ice. 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Press  through  a  sieve  two  quarts  of  apricots  and  add  to  the  syrup. 
Add  t1>e  juice  from  three  lemons,  and  set  to  cool.  When  cold,  freeze  and 
then  pack. 

Strawberry  Water  Ice. 

Mash  one  quart  of  berries  and  strain  and  press  the  juice  through  a 
cloth.  Add  to  the  juice  one  quart  of  water,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and 
one  pound  of  sugari    Stir  until  dissolved  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice. 

The  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  three,  a  large  sweet 
orange,  juice  and  rind ;  squeeze  out  all  the  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rind  of 
orange  aud  lemons  a  couple  of  hours ;  then  squeeze  and  strain  through  a 
towel,  add  a  pint  of  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved, 
turn  into  a  freezert  then  proceed  as  for  ice  cream,  letting  it  stand  longer, 
two  or  three  boors.  Other  flavors  may  be  made  in  this  manner,  varying  the 
flavoring  to  taste. 

Cherry  Sherbet. 

Boil  for  five  minutes,  one  quart  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Seed 
one  quart  of  sour  cherries,  add  to  the  syrup  and  when  cold  press  through  a 
very  fine  sieve  and  freeze.  Stir  constantly  while  freezing.  Beat  the  white 
of  one  egg  until  frothy,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and 
beat  until  white  and  stiff.  Remove  the  dasher  when  sherbet  is  frozen  and 
stir  in  this  meringue.  Repack  and  stand  asida  until  wanted.  Serve  In 
small  tumblers  or  lemonade  glasses. 

Lemon  Sherbbx. 
Boil  one  and  one-fonrth  pounds  of  si^r,  one  quart  of  water,  and  the 
grated  yellow  rind  of  three  lemons  five  minutes  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold,  add  the  juice  of  four  or  five  juicy  lemons  and  strain  through  a 
elotb.    Freese  and  add  the  meringue  aa  lu  cherry  sherbet. 


152  ICE  CRfeAM  Aim  icea 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

Orate  two  larg^  yellow  pineapples  and  mix  with  two  quarts  of  watef, 
and  a  pint  of  sugar ;  add  the  juioe  of  two  lemons.  Place  in  a  freezer  and 
freeee. 

Raspberry  Sherbet. 

Two  quarts  of  raspberries,  one  pound  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  water, 
the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  gelatine.  Mash  the  berries  and 
sugar  together  and  let  them  stand  two  hours.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold 
water  to  cover.  Add  one  pint  of  the  water  to  the  berries,  and  strain.  Dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  tills  to  the  strained 
mixture  and  freeze. 

Frozen  Fruits. 

'    Frozen  fruits  are  mixed  and  frozen  the  same  as  water  ioe,  mashing  or 
cutting  the  fruits,  and  using  them  without  straining. 

If  canned  fruits  are  used,  only  half  the  quantity  of  sugar  given  in  the 
recipes  for  fresh  fruits  will  be  required. 

Frozbk  Cherries. 

Two  quarts  of  pie  or  morello  cherries,  or  one  quart-can,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  quarts  of  watefT  Stone  the  cherries,  mix  them  with  the  sugar, 
and  stand  aside  one  hour ;  then  stir  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  add 
the  water,  put  into  the  freezer,  and  turn  rapidly  until  frozen. 

Frozen  Strawberries. 

To  one  quart  of  berries  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  pound  of 
sugar,  and  set  aside  for  one  hour.  Then  mash  the  berries,  add  one  quart 
of  water  and  stir  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved  when  it  is  ready  to  freeze. 

Frozen  Custard. 

Bring  to  a  scald  one  quart  of  milk.  Wet  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  to  the  hot  milk  and  stir  constantly  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  four  eggs  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar  which 
have  been  beaten  light  together.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes  and  take  from  the 
fire.  Add  vanilla  to  taste  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  freeze  same 
as  ice  cream. 

Frozen  Chocolate  Cxtstard. 

Bring  to  a  scald  one  pint  of  milk.  Add  to  it  four  eggs  and  one  large 
cup  of  sugar  ,  which  have  been  beaten  very  light  together,  and  one  cup  of 
chocolate.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  set  to  cool.  Add  to  it  one  pint  of 
cream  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.    Freeze  when  cold* 


COFFEE.  TEA  AND  BEVERAGES. 


Bbkakvast  Is  often  a  failure  for  the  want  of  a  good  cup  off  oofbe. 
There  is  almost  as  much  in  the  making  as  in  the  coffee  itself. 

The  most  important  consideration  in  the  making  of  a  good  cup  of 
ooffee  or  tea  is  boiling  water,  but  many  housewives  are  apt  to  overlook  this 
£sct.  Never  boil  the  water  more  than  three  or  four  minutes,  for  longer 
boiling  will  cause  it  to  lose  most  of  its  natural  properties  bj  evaporation, 
leaving  a  liquid  composed  mostly  of  lime  and  iron,  which  becomes  flat  and 
hard.    This  will  spoil  the  best  coffee  and  tea. 

Water  left  in  the  tea-kettle  over  night  mu$t  never  be  used  in  preparing 
the  brealifaet  coffee;  no  matter  how  excellent  your  coffee  or  .tea  may  be,  it 
will  be  ruined  by  the  addition  of  water  that  has  been  boiled  more  than  once. 

To  avoid  adulteration,  buy  coffee  in  the  grain,  either  raw  or  in  small  , 
quantities  freshly  roasted.    The  best  kinds  are  the  Mocha  and  Java,  and 
some  prefer  to  mix  the  two,  having  roasted  them  separately  in  the  proper- 
tion  of  one-third  of  the  former  to  two-thirds  of  the  latter.    Keep  in  a 
closely-covered  tin  or  earthern  vessel. 

Do  not  buy  mucli  at  a  time  (unless  in  air-tight  packages),  a  week  or  ten 
days*  supply  is  enough,  and  if  you  can  buy  it  twice  a  week  it  is  all  the  better. 

Filtered  or  Drip  Coffee. 

For  each  person  allow  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  ground  coffee,  and  to  . 
every  tablespoonful  allow  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Have  a  small  iron  ring 
made  to  fit  the  top  of  the  coffee-pot  inside,  and  to  this  ring  sew  a  small 
muslin  bag  (the  muslin  for  the  purpose  must  not  be  too  thin).  Fit  the  i>ag 
in  the  pot,  pour  some  boiling  water  in  it,  and,  when  the  pot  is  well  warmed, 
put  the  ground  coffee  in  the  bag ;  pour  over  as  much  boiling  water  as  is  re^ 
quired,  close  the  lid  quickly,  and,  when  all  the  water  has  filtered  through, 
remove  the  bag,  and,  send  the  coffee  to  table.  Making  it  in  this  manner 
prevents  the  necessity  of  pouring  the  coffee  from  one  vessel  to  another, 
whioh  cools  and  spoils  it.  The  water  should  be  poured  on  the  coffee  grad- 
ually so  that  the  infusion  may  be  stronger ;  and  the  bag  must  be  well  made 
that  none  of  the  grounds  may  escape  through  the  seams  and  so  make  the 
coffee  thick  and  mudd)-. 


154  '    COFFEE,  TEA  AND  BEVERAGEa 

BoiLBD  Coffee. 

Equal  parts  of  Mooha  and  Jara  ooffee ;  allow  one  heaping  tablespoon* 
fol  of  coffee  to  each  person,  and  ^*  one  for  the  pot  *'  to  make  good  strength* 
Mix  one  egg  with  the  grounds ;  pour  on  the  coffee  half  as  much  boiling 
water  as  will  be  needed  r  let  coffee  froth,  tlien  stir  down  grounds,  and  let 
boil  fiTC' minutes;  then  let  coffee  stand  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil, 
for  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  add  rest  of  water. 

SXTBSTITUTB  FOB  CbBAM  IN  COFFEB. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg,  put  to  it  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  pour 
the  coffee  into  it  gradually,  stirring  it  so  that  it  will  not  curdle.  It  is  diffi- 
cult to  distinguish  this  from  fresh  cream. 

Tea. 

Use  a  brown  earthern  teapot,  and  dare  to  bring  it  to  the  table.  Put 
your  dry  tea  into  this  dry  pot;  cover  it  and  let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  tkf 
stove  till  pot  and  tea  are  hot :  this  releases  the  aromatic  oil  of  the  leavee 
Now  pour  on  the  boiling  water,  as  much  as  you  want  tea ;  cover  it  closely 
In  Scotland  they  use  a  close  wadded  bag  called  a  cosey  to  cover  the  pot,  and 
it  is  a  valuable  invention.  Never  boil  tea,  black  or  green ;  heat  the  leaves, 
steep  in  boiling  water,  and  keep  the  steam  in  the  pot  and  the  tea  will  be 
excellent.  Never  use  a  metal  teapot.  Russian  tea  is  made  by  putting  a 
slice  of  lemon  in  each  cup  and  pouring  over  it  the  boiling  tea. 

Iced  Tea. 

The  tea  should  be  made  in  the  morning,  very  strong,  and  not  allowed 
to  steep  long.  Keep  in  the  ice-box  till  the  meal  is  ready  and  then  pat  in  a 
small  quantity  of  cracked  ice.  Do  not  pour  the  scalding  hot  tea  on  a  gob- 
let of  ice  as  many  do,  for  the  ice  melts  the  tea  and  makes  it  weak,  insipid, 
and  '  libel  on  its  name.    Iced  coffee  is.  very  nice  made  in  the  same  way. 

Cocoa. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  farina  boiler  to  boil.  Moisten  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cocoa  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk  stir- 
xldjl  all  the  while.    Boil  five  minutes  and  serve  tiot  with  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate. 

AUow  half  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate  to  a  pint  of  water  and  a  pint 
of  milk.  Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  water.    Boil  three  minutes»  add  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes  raova^ 


COITEE,  TEA  AND  BEVERAGES.  166 

stirriug  it  often.  Sweeten  to  your  taste.  Or  put  half  a  cupful  of  choco- 
late into  a  farina  boiler,  stand  it  over  the  fire  to  melt  When  melted,  add 
one  quart  of  new  milk  or  half  water  if  preferred  slightly  warmed,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cover  the  farina-boiler  and  boil  three  minnteBt 
then,  with  an  egg-beater,  beat  the  chocolate  until  smooth  and  creamy. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Raspbbbby  Vinegar. 

Put  two  quarts  of  raspberries  into  a  suitable  dish,  pour  over  them  a 
quart  of  good  vinegar,  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain  mashing 
the  fruit  well  to  get  all  the  juice,  and  pour  this  liquor  on  another  quart  of 
berries ;  do  this  for  three  or  four  days  successively,  and  strain  it ;  the  last 
time  through  a  flannel  bag.  Now  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of 
this  liquid.  Boil  slowly  five  minutes,  skim,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  bottle, 
and  seal  Strawberry  and  blackberry  vinegars  are  made  in  precisely  the 
same  manner. 

Fob  a  Summeb  Dbaught. 

The  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  tumblerful  of  cold  water,  pounded  sugar  to 
taste,  half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda.  Squeeze  the  juice 
from  the  lemon ;  strain,  and  add  it  to  the  water,  with  sufficient  pounded 
sugar  to  sweeten  the  whole  nicely.  When  well  mixed,  put  in  the  soda,  stir 
well,  and  drink  while  the  mixture  is  in  an  efFervescing  state. 

Inexpensive  Dbink. 

A  very  nice,  cheap  drink  which  may  take  the  place  of  lemonade,  and  be 
found  fully  as  healthful,  is  madeAvith  one  cupful  of  pure  cider  vinegar,  half 
a  cupful  of  good  molasses,  put  into  one  quart  pitcher  of  ice-waten  A  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  ginger  added  makes  a  healthful  beverage. 

A  Good  Summeb  Dbink. 

Two  pounds  of  grapes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  oi 
•old  water.  Squeeze  the  grapes  hard  in  a  coarse  cloth,  when  you  have 
picked  them  from  the  stems.  Wring  out  every  drop  of  juice ;  add  the 
angar,  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  the  water,  set  on  ice  until  very  cold.  You 
oan  add  more  sugar  if  you  like,  or  if  the  grapes  are  not  quite  ripe. 

Iced  Buttbbmilk. 

There  is  no  healthier  drink  than  buttermilk,  but  it  must  be  the  creamy^ 
rieh  buttermilk  to  be  good.  Tt  should  stand  on  the  ice  to  eool,  though  if 
very  rieh  and  thiok  a  little  ice  in  it  is  an  improvement. 


s 


«     t 


EOGNOO. 

Whip  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  oream,  adding  a  half 
capful  of  sugar.  Pour  into  a  quart  of  milk,  adding  a  teaoup  of  good 
brandj,  and  a  little  flavoring  of  nutmeg.  Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly 
and  add  the  whites  of  three  additional  eggs  well  whipped  when  eggs  are 
plentifuL 

Strawberry  Syrup. 

Take  fine,  ripe  strawberries,  crush  them  in  a  cloth,  and  press  the  juioe 
from  them;  to  each* quart  of  it  put  a  quart  of  simple  syrup,  boil  gently  for 
one  hour,  then  let  it  become  cold,  and  bottle  it ;  cork  and  seal  it.  When 
served  reduce  it  to  taste  with  water,  set  it  on  ice,  and  serve  in  small  tumb- 
lers half  filled. 

Lemon  Syrup. 

Take  the  juice  of  six  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  three  in  it,  let  it  stand 
overnight,  then  take  three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  make  a  thick  syrup. 
When  it  is  quite  cool,  strain  the  juice  into  it,  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from 
the  grated  rind  as  will  suit  the  taste.  A  tablespoonful  in  a  glass  of  water 
will  make  a  delicious  drink  on  a  hot  day. 

Berry  Sherbet. 

Crush  one  pound  of  berries,  add  them  to  one  quart  of  water,  one  lemon 
sliced,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  flavor,  if  you  have  it.  Let  these  in- 
gredients stand  in  an  earthen  bowl  for  three  hours ;  then  strain,  squeezing 
all  the  juioe  out  of  the  fruit.  Dissolve  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  in  it, 
strain  again,  and  put  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Koumiss,  or  Milk  Beer. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  four  lumps  of  white  sugar,  one  gill  of  fresh 
buttermilk.  Mix  until  the  sugar  dissolves.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  ten 
hours,  when  it  will  have  thickened  ;  then  pour  from  one  vessel  into  another 
until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  Bottle  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  twenty-four 
hours— in  winter  it  may  take  thirty-six  hours.  Cork  the  bottles  tight;  tie 
the  corks  down.  Shake  for  a  few  minutes  before  using.  One  teaspoonful 
of  yeast  may  be  used  instead  of  the  buttermilk.  The  milk  should  be  un* 
skimmed.  This  agreeable  beverage  is  recommended  for  a  delicate  stomach, 
as  aiding  in  the  assimilation  of  food ;  it  is  also  healthful  for  young  children* 


CHAFING  DISH  RECIPES. 


m 


Always  use  a  long  handled  hardwood  spoon  so  as  to  enable  you  to 
work  quietly  and  easily. 

See  that  the  lamp  is  filled  and  the  matches  handy  before  you  are  seated. 
Butter  may  be  made  into  ounce  balls  (so  one  can  be  more  accurate  in  meas- 
urements) and  placed  in  a  pretty  dish  on  the  right.  Measure  the  cream  or 
milk  and  put  it  in  a  pitcher  on  the  left  along  with  the  bottles  containing 
sauces  and  catsups. 

When  butter  and  flour  are  to  be  rubbed  together,  do  it  before  hand  and 
so  save  time  and  confusion.  If  the  butter  is  to  be  browned  firs«  l  at  it  in 
the  chafing  dish^  then  have  the  flour  in  a  pretty  bowl,  to  be  added  later. 

Try  and  have  all  necessary  materials  on  the  table  when  the  chafing  dish 
is  placed  before  the  host  or  hostess. 

To  Makb  Toast. 

Place  an  asbestos  mat  over  the  lamp;  out  iti^  trusts  from  the  bread, 
and  toast  carefully.  Spread  with  butter  and  put  on  a  plate  which  has  been 
pre vio  usly  heated. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Grate  a  pound  of  good  old  English  dairy  cheese.  Rub  a  clove  of  garlic 
or  an  onion  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  put  in  the  cheese  with  a  gill  oi 
sweet  cream  or  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard.  Stir  constantly 
until  the  cheese  is  melted.     Serve  on  butter  toast. 

How  TO  Skrve  Lobster. 

Cut  the  lobster  into  rather  small  pieces,  and  stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter 
until  very  hot,  then  add  a  tablespoon ful  of  tomato  or  walnut  catsup,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  half  cup  of  good  stock  and  salt  to  taste. 

Oysters  Fricasseed. 

Have  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  rubbed  together,  and  in 
the  dish  along  with  a  teacupful  of  milk.     When  ready,  light  tlie  lamp  and 

(167) 


CHAFffiG  DISH  RECIPES. 

B^r  continually  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  sauce,  then  add  fifty  well  drained 
oyuters.  Let  boil.  Add  a  taaspoonful  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a 
dash  of  peppsT.  A  little  parsley  chopped  line  improves  the  appearance  at 
thi»  diah.    Stir  a  minute  and  serve  from  dish. 

CuEAMED  Potatoes. 
Have  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  same  of  flour  rubbed  together  in 
the  dish.    Stir  into  this  a  half  pint  of  milk.     When  Iiot,  add  about  oae  pint 
.  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Be 
careful  not  to  break  potatoes  while  Btiriiiig.     Serve  Jiot. 

Omelet. 
Have  four  eggs  beaten  only  until  well  mixed,  some  chopped  parsley, 
and  four  tablespoon fuls  of  warm  milk  in  a  bowl  at  your  left.  Melt  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  chafing  dish,  and  wlien  hot,  pour  in  the  egg 
mixture  and  season.  When  bottom  part  seta  Tift  the  edge  and  allow  the 
soft  portion  to  run  under.     When  done,  fold  and  serve. 

SCBAMBLED  EOQS. 
To  six  well-beatea  eggs,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pinch  of  salt, 
and  six  tablespoonfnis  of  cold  milk.    Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the  clialiiig 
dish,  and  when,  hot  stir  in  the  egg  and  stir  constantly  until  done.    Serve  im' 
mediately. 

SiBLOtN  StBAK. 
Melt  in  the  ohaflng  dish  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  when  hot  put 
in  the  steak  and  oook  ten  minutes,  turning  often ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  dot  over  with  small  bits  of  currant  jelly  and  serve  at  once. 

CBBAum)  Chicken. 
Cut  oold  roasted  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Put  one  tablespoonful  of 
bntter  and  one  of  flour  rubbed  togetlier  in  the  chafing  dish.  Add  a  half 
pint  of  milk,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  chicken  and  season.  Serve  when  hot. 
Mushroomt  may  be  added  if  liked.  They  should  be  chopped  and  added 
with  tho  meat. 

Oai^s  Liveb  and  Baoon. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  the  liver  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.    Hare 
three  thin  slioes  of  baoon  in  the  chaflng  dish.     Light  the  lamp  and  put  in 
th«  liver  when  the  baoon  is  oriap.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 


CIIAFIKG  DISH  EECIPES. 

Tomatoes  Fbied. 


168 


Cut  tomatoes  in  slices  one-half  inch  thick.  Put  one  tablespoonfiil  of 
butter  in  the  pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  tomatoes.  Brown  on  both  sides, 
frying  slowly.  Have  thickening  mixed  with  one  cup  of  milk,  pour  over  the 
tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

CUKRY  OP  OySTBB. 

Put  two  tablospoonf uls  of  butter  in  the  chafnig  dish  and  when  hot — not 
brown — add  twenty-five  oysters.  Sprinkle  over  them  one  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Rub  the  spoon  with  a  clove 
of  garlic  and  stir  until  boiling.     Serve  hot  at  once. 

Melted  Cheese. 

Put  in  the  chafing  dish  one-half  pound  of  good  rich  cheese  which  has 
been  grated.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  rich  cream.  Stir  until  melted  and  pour  over  crackers  which  have  been 
arranged  on  a  hot  dish.    Serve. 


d 


BUTTER  AM)  CHEESE 


To  Makb  Buttbb. 

Wurin  the  cream  to  a  temperature  of  66^  or  58^  Fahr.,  and  it  will  chum 
m  fiftsen  minutea.  After  the  butter  collects  in  the  churn,  take  it  out  and 
stand  it  for  a  minute  in  a  very  cold  place.  Do  not  wash  it,  as  in  this  way 
you  rob  it  of  certain  elements  necessary  for  its  preservation.  Work  it'con- 
tinuoQsiy  and  thoroughly  until  all  the  buttermilk  is  out,  adding  two  even 
teaspoon/uls  of  very  fine  salt  to  each  pound  of  butter,  after  you  have 
worked  it  about  five  minutes.  Make  it  at  once  into  prints,  and  stand  away 
in  a  cool  plaue. 

Tlia  ciiuru,  dasher,  tray  and  ladle,  should  be  well  scalded  before  using, 
so  that  the  butter  will  not  stick  to  them,  and  then  cooled  with  very 
cold  water.  When  you  skim  cream  into  your  cream  jar,  stir  it  well 
into  what  is  already  there,  so  that^t  may  all  sour  alike;  and  no  freih  eream 
ihotdd  be  put  with  it  within  twelve  hours  before  churning,  or  the  butter  will 
not  come  quickly  ;  and  perhaps,  not  at  all. 

A  fiRINB  TO  PbEBBRVE  BuTTBB. 

V  First  work  your  butler  into  small  rolls,  wrapping  each  one  carefully  in 
a  clean  muslJn  doth,  tying  them  up  with  a  string.  Make  a  brine,  say  three 
gallons,  having  it  strong  enough  of  salt  to  bear  up  an  egg ;  add  a  half  tea- 
cupful  of  pure,  white  sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  saltpeter;  boil  the 
^  brinef  and  when  cold,  straia  it  carefully.  Pour  it  over  the  rolls  so  as  to 
more  than  cover  them,  as  thihi  excludes  the  air.  Place  a  weight  over  all  to 
keep  the  rolls  under  the  surface^ 

SOALliOPBD  ChEBSE. 

Any  person  who  Is  fond  of  cheese  could  not  fail  to  favor  this  recipe. 
Take  three  slices  of  bread,  well  buttered,  first  cutting  off  the  brown  outside 
crust.  Grate  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  good  cheese  ;  lay  the 
bread  in  layers  in  a  bettered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  it  the  grated  cheese, 
soBde  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  four  well-beaten  eggs  with  three  cups 
of  milk ;  poo?  It  over  the  bread  and  cheese.    Bake  it  in  a  hot  oven  as  you 

ivoiM  oook  a  bwa4  puMnj^    '^^"^  tuakea  an  amj^  ^  to  ftmr  odoola. 


'-^ 


BUTTEB  AND  CHEESE.  161 

Cheese  Fondu. 

Melt  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  whisk  into  it  a  pint  of  boiled  milk.  Dis- 
solve two  tablespoon fuls  of  ilour  in  a  gill  of  oold  milk,  add  it  to  the  boiled 
milk  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  heaping  teaspoon* 
ful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  five  ounces  of  grated  cheese 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  add  them,  pour  the  mixture  into  a  deei;) 
tin  lined  with  buttered  paper.  It  should  be  only  half  filled,  as  the  fondu 
will  rise  very  high.  Pin  a  napkia  around  the  dish  iu  which  it  is  baked,  and 
aerve  the  moment  it  is  baked. 

Cheese  Straws. 

One  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  cupful  of  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tiny  pinch  cayenne  pepper. 
Work  the  butter  in  the  flour ;  add  cheese  and  seasoning ;  make  into  a  paste 
with  the  egg.  Roll  into  a  thin  sheet,  cut  in  strips  four  inches  long  and  oc^e 
fourth  of  an  inch  wide  and  bake  in  a  moderate  ov^a  until  a  light  brown.--* 
Lilla. 

Welsh  Rabedits. 

Put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  add  gradually 
four  ounces  of  mild  American  cheese.  Whisk  it  thoroughly  until  melted. 
Beat  together  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  two  eggs ;  whisk  into  the  cheese, 
add  a  little  salt,  pour  over  the  crisp  toast,  and  serve. 

Cheese  Souffl^ 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne.  Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
hot,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  the  milk  and  seasoning. 
Cook  two  minutes,  then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
•heeae.  Set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the  whit^a  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty* 
&n  minutes.    Serve  the  moment  it  comes  from  the  oven* 

Crisp  Cheese  Cbackbrs. 

Split  crackers  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Prepare  grated  cheese  by  sea- 
Mning  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  each  half  cracker  with  the  mixture 
and  return  to  the  oven.  When  the  oheese  baa  melted  they  are  zeady  to 
eerfe. 

u 


/    • 


162 


BUTTER  AND  CHEES& 

Slip, 


Slip  is  bonnyclabber  without  its  acidity,  and  very  delicate  in  its  flavor. 
Make  a  quart  of  milk  luke  warm ;  then  stir  into  it  one  large  spoonful  of  the 
preparation  called  rennet ;  set  it  by,  and  when  cool  again  it  will  be  as  stiff 
as  jelly.  It  should  be  made  only  a  few  houi^s  before  it  is  to  be  used,  or  it 
will  bQ  tough  and  watery ;  in  summer  set  the  dish  on  ice  after  it  has  jellied* 
Served  with  powdered  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream. 

Cheesb  Sakdwiohbs. 

These  are  extremely  nice,  and  are  very  easily  made.  Take  two  hard* 
boiled  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  common  cheese  grated,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  two  tablespoou- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  and  two  tablespoon fuls  of  vinegar  or  oold  water.  Take 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  put  them  into  a  small  bowl  and  crumble  it  down, 
put  into  the  butter  and  mix  it  smooth  with  a  spoon,  then  add  the  salt, 
pepper,  mustard  and  the  cheese,  mixing  each  well.  Then  put  in  the  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  which  will  make  it  the  proper  thickness.  If  vinegar  is 
not  oared  for,  then  use  oold  water  instead.  Spread  this  between  two  biscuits 
or  pieces  of  oat  cake,  and  you  will  find  it  a  very  nice  sandwich.  Some 
people  will  prefer  them  less  highly  seasoned,  so,  season  to  taste. 

COTTAQB  OhBESB. 

Put  a  pan  of  sour  or  loppered  milk  on  the  stove  or  range,  where  it  be 
warln  not  hot,  let  it  scald  until  it  becomes  thick,  then  pour  boiling  water 
over  it  to  the  proportion  of  one  quart  to  four  quarts  of  milk.  Stir  and  pour 
in  a  clean  bag  of  cheese  cloth  and  hang  where  the  whey  may  drain  out  bat 
do  not  squeeze.  When  dry  put  it  into  a  dish  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  spoon, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  enough  sweet 
cream  to  make  the  cheese  the  consistency  of  putty.  With  your  hands  make 
it  into  little  balls  flattened.  Kee][>  it  in  a  cool  place.  Many  like  it  made 
rather  thin  with  cream,  serving  it  in  a  deep  dish.  Tou  may  make  this 
cheese  of  sweet  milk  by  forming  the  curd  with  prepared  rennet. 

,  Toasted  Chebsb  ob  Scotch  Rabbbit. 

Ooe-half  pound  of  rich  cheese,  five  slices  of  bread,  salt  and  cayenne 
to  ta&te.  Cut  the  cheese  into  very  thin  pieces,  spread  it  on  a  heated  flat 
dish,  and  stand  it  over  boiling  water  to  melt.  Toast  the  bread,  and  butter 
it ;  plaee  it  on  a  hot  dish,  add  the  seasoning  to  the  cheese,  and  spread  it  ove* 
the  toast.    Serve  ver/  hot. 


BUTTEB  AND  CHEBSB.  163 

Pastry  Ra^iakiks. 

Soil  the  remains  of  any  light  pufif  paste  left  from  pies  oat  evenly,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  grated  cheese  of  a  nice  flavor.  Fold  the  paste  in  three,  roll 
it  out  again,  and  sprinkle  more  cheese  over ;  fold  the  paste,  roll  it  out,  and 
cut  in  any  shape  that  may  be  desired.  Bake  the  ramakins  in  a  quick  oven 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  dish  them  on  a  hot  napkin,  and  serve  quickly. 
The  appearance  of  this  dish  may  be  very  much  improved  by  brushing  the 
ramakins  over  with  yolk  of  egg  before  they  are  placed  in  the  oven.  Wheie 
expense  is  not  objected  to,  parmesan  is  the  best  kind  of  cheese  to  use  fol 
making  this  dish.    Very  nice  with  a  cup  of  coffee  for  a  lunch. 

BONKYOLilLBBEB. 

This  dish  is  best  in  the  summer,  when  milk  sours  and  thickens  very 
quickly.  It  should  be  served  very  cold.  A  nice  way  is  to  pour  the  milk 
before  it  has  thickened  into  a  glass  dish,  and  when  thick  set  on  ice  for  an 
hour  or  two,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve,  and  is  really  a  very  pretty  addition  to 
the  supper  table.  Serve  in  sauce  dishes  or  deep  dessert  plates,  sprinkle  witfa 
sugar  (maple  is  nice),  and  a  little  gratsd  nutmeg,  if  liked. 


-.   1      .^      #.\i<^ 


FOOD  FOR  INVALEDSw 


Datntt  servioe  and  delicate  ohina  will  often  tempt  an  Invalid  more  thai 
ike  food. 

Let  the  napkins  be  clean  and  the  tray  covered,  unless  a  fancy  trayi 
Never  let  the  patient  wait  too  long. 

The  invalid,  as  a  rule,  will  be  more  likely  to  enjoy  any  preparation  sent 
to  him  if  served  in  small  dainty  pieces. 

Never  send  more  than  a  supply  for  one  meal ;  the  same  dish  too  tt^- 
qnently  set  before  an  invalid  very  often  causes  a  distaste  when  a  change 
would  perhaps  tempt  the  appetite. 

Invalids  should  have  no  fried,  hard  or  greasy  food,  no  pastry,  no  rich 
oakes,  no  old-fashioned  rich  preserves. 

Buttered-toast,  either  dry  or  dipped,  though  so  generally  given,  is  rarely 
a  suitable  article  for  the  sick,  as  melted  oils  are  very  difficult  of  digestion. 

Roasted  potatoes,  very  mealy,  are  preferred  to  other  vegetables. 

Beef  Tea. 

One  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  glass  can- 
ning-jar  without  a  drop  of  water ;  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold 
water,  heat  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  or  four 
hours,  until  the  meat  Is  like  white  rags  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Season 
with  salt  to  taste,  and,  when  cold,  skim.  Do  not  use  pepper.  Another 
method  of  obtaining  the  juice  from  beef  is  to  cut  juicy  beef  into  small  pieces, 
put  it  into  a  bowl  with  small  pieces  of  ice.  .  When  the  meat  is  white  the 
beef  may  be  pressed  and  strained'  and  heated  (not  boiled),  seasoned  and 
served.    This  is  good,  after  severe  cases  of  typhoid  fever. 

Bkbf  Broth. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  one  pound  of  good  lean  beef ;  put  on  in  two  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  boil  slowly,  keeping  it  well  covered,  one  and  one-half 
hours }  then  add  a  half  teacup  of  tapioca,  which  has  been  soaked  three-quarters 
of  BM  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Some 
tM^  wMi  the  tapiooa,  a  small  bit  of  parsley,  and  a  slice  or  two  of  oaloa. 
CM*) 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS.  166 

Strain  before  serving,  seasoning  slightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  It  is  more 
strengthening  to  add,  just  before  serving,  a  soft  poached  egg.  Rice  may  be 
used  instead  of  tapioca,  straining  the  broth,  and  adding  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rioe  (soaked  for  a  short  time),  and  then  boiling  half  an  hour. 

ScBAPED  Beef. 

^  Take  a  good  piece  of  raw  steak,  lay  it  on  a  meat  board,  and  with  ^ 
knife  scrape  into  fine  bits;  after  removing  all  hard  and  gristly  parts  put  i( 
into  a  pan  over  the  fire  and  let  it  remain  just  long  enough  to  become 
thoroughly  heated  through,  stirring  it  up  from  the  bottom  occasionally; 
season  with  a  little  salt.     This  is  very  nutritious  and  quite  palatable. 

CoRNMEAL  Gruel. 

One  tablespoonful  of  fine  Indian  meal,  mixed  with  cold  water  and  a 
saltspoonf ul  of  salt ;  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
Stir  it  frequently,  and  if  it  becomes  too  thick  use  boiling  water  to  thin  it. 
If  the  stomach  is  not  too  weak  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  may  be  used  to 
oool  it.  Some  like  it  sweetened  and  others  like  it  plain.  It  should  be  very 
smooth,  and  should  not  have  the  faintest  suspicion  of  a  scorch  about  it.  For 
very  sick  persons  let  it  settle,  pour  off  the  top,  and  give  without  other  sea- 
soning. For  convalescents  toast  a  piece  of  bread  as  nicely  as  possible,  and 
put  it  in  the  gruel  with  a  tablespoonful  of  nice  sweet  cream,  and  a  little 
ginger  and  sugar.    Tliis  should  be  used  only  when  a  laxative  is  allowed. 

» 

Onion  Gruel. 

It  is  excellent  for  cold.  Slice  down  a  few  onions  and  boil  them  in  a 
pint  of  new  milk,  stir  in  a  sprinkle  of  oatmeal  and  a  very  little  salt,  boil  till 
the  onions  are  quite  lender,  then  sup  rapidly  and  go  to  bed. 

Cracker  Gruel. 

Pour  one  cnp  of  boiling  water  over  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
Qrackers  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  one  cup  of  milk,  and  return  it  to  tho 
fire.  Let  it  boil  until  it  thickens.  Season  with  salt  and  serve  imme* 
diately. 

Ego  Orubl. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  until  light  with  one  teaspoonfdl  of  sugar  and 
a  sprinkle  of  salt.  Add  a  little  flavoring  of  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Then 
stir  in  the  white  which  has  been  beaten  until  foaming.  Pour  over  it  the  hot 
milk,  and  senra  at  ono«» 


166 


POOD  FOR  INVALID& 

Oatmeal  Gruel. 


Put  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  a 
double  boiler,  and  sprinkle  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  oatmeal.  Cook  one 
hour,  strain  and  serve  with  milk  and  sugar,  if  ordered.  Farina  gruel  is 
made  in  the  same  way. 

Barley  Grubl. 

Boil  the  barley  three  or  four  hours  in  plenty  of  water,  then  when  the 
water  is  white  and  glutinous,  strain  it  off  and  add  a  little  loaf  sugar,  and  a 
very  little  salt.    This  is  exceedingly  nourishing,  and  is  good  for  infants. 

Prepared  Flour. 

Take  a  teacupful  of  flour,  tie  up  tightly  in  cloth  and  put  in  a  kettle  of 
water;  boil  from  three  to  six  hours,  take  out,  remove  the  cloth,  and  you  will 
have  a  hard,  round  ball.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  when  wanted  for 
use,  prepare  by  placing  some  sweet  milk  (new  always  preferred)  to  boil,  and 
grating  into  the  milk  from  the  ball  enough  to  make  it  ns  thick  as  you  desire, 
stirring  it  just  before  removing  from  the  stove  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon ;  this 
gives  it  a  pleasant  flavor ;  put  a  little  salt  into  the  milk.  Very  good  for 
children  having  summer  complaint. 

Graham  Gems  for  Invalids. 

Mix  graham  flour  with  half  milk  and  half  water,  add  a  little  salt,  beat, 
making  the  batter  thin  enough  to  pour ;  have  the  gem-pan  very  hot,  grease 
it,  fill  as  quickly  as  possible  and  return  immediately  to  a  hot  oven ;  bake 
about  thirty  roiuutes.  Practice  will  teach  just  the  proper  consistency  of  the 
batter^  and  the  best  temperature  of  the  oven.  It  wil.l  not  be  good  unless 
well  beaten. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Broths. 

A.f  ter  pouring  in  dish,  pass  clean  white  wrapping  paper  quickly  over  the 
top  of  broth,  using  several  pieces,  till  all  grease  is  removed. 

Clam  Broth. 

Select  twelve  small,  hardshell  clams,  drain  them,  and  chop  them  fine; 
add  half  a  pint  of  clam  juice  or  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut;  cook  slowly  for  one  half  hour.  Then  add  one  gill  of  hot 
milk,  let  boiU  strain,  and  serve.     An  excellent  broth  for  a  weak  stomach. 


POOD  ^Oft  INVALIDS.  161 

Veal  ok  Mutton  Bkoth. 

Take  a  scrag-end  of  mutton  (two  pounds),  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  with 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  an  ounce  of  pearl  barley  or  rice.  When  it  is 
coming  to  a  boil,  skim  it  well,  then  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  let  it 
boil  until  half  reduced,  then  strain  it,  and  take  off  all  the  fat,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  This  is  excellent  for  an  invalid.  If  vegetables  are  liked  in  this 
broth,  take  one  turnip,  one  carrot,  and  one  onion,  cut  them  in  shreds,  and 
boil  them  in  the  broth  half  an  hour.  In  that  case,  the  barley  may  be  served 
with  the  vegetables  in  broth. 

Chicken  Broth. 

Make  the  same  as  mutton  or  beef  broth.  Boil  the  chicken  slowly,  put- 
tinij  on  just  enough  water  to  cover  it  well,  watching  it  closely  that  it  does 
not  boil  down  too  much.  When  the  chicken  is  tender,  season  with  salt  and 
a  very  little  pepper.  The  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  light  and  added,  is  very 
nourishing. 

Oyster  Toast. 

Toast  a  nice  slice  of  dry  bread,  butter  it  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish.  Put 
in  a  tin  basin  six  oysters,  half  a  teacupful  of  their  own  liquor,  and  half  a 
cupful  of  milk,  and  boil  one  minute.  Season  with  a  little  butter,  pepped 
and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  toast  and  serve. 

Plain  Milk  Toast. 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  toast  it  quickly,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  it.  Pour  upon  it  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  milk  or 
cream.  Crackers  split  and  toasted  in  this  manner,  are  often  very  grateful 
to  an  invalid. 

Toast  Water,  or  Crust  Coffee. 

Take  stale  pieces  of  crusts  of  bread  or  the  end  pieces  of  the  loaf;  toast 
them  very  brown,  care  to  be  taken  that  they  do  not  burn  in  the  least,  as 
that  affects  the  flavor.  Put  the  browned  crusts  into  a  large  milk  pitcher, 
and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  to  cover  them ;  cover  the  pitcher  ' 
closely,  and  let  steep  until  cold.  Strain,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  A  piece  of 
ice  in  each  glass  adds  to  it.  This  is  also  good,  taken  warm  with  cream  and 
sugar,  the  same  as  coffee. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Boil  half  a  cupful  of  rice  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  with  half  a' 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  when  the  water  has  boiled  nearly  out  and  the  rice  be* 


168 


POOD  tOU  INVALIDS. 


I^ns  to  look  soft  and  dry,  turn  over  it  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  let  it  simmer 
intil  the  rice  is  done  and  nearly  dry;  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  in  a  well- 
>eaten  egg.     Eat  it  warm  wilh  cream  and  sugar.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Beep-Tea  Soup. 

To  one  pint  of  ^^beef  essence*'  (mside  in  a  bottle  as  directed  in  recipe 
on  a  preceding  page),  quite  hot,  add  a  teacup  of  the  best  cream,  well 
heated,  into  which  the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg  has  been  previously  stirred,  mix 
carefully  together,  and  season  slightly,  and  serve. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Two  tomatoes,  two  potatoes,  two  onions,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  rice ; 
boil  the  whole  in  one  quart  of  water  for  one  hour,  season  with  salt,  clip  dry 
toast  in  this  till  quite  soft,  and  eat ;  this  may  be  used  when  animal  food  is 
uct  allowed. 

SoPT-BoiLED  Eggs. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  a  fresh  egg  in  a  teacup,  cover  with  a  saucer,  and 
let  it  stand  for  five  minutes  or  more.  If  two  eggs  are  to  be  cooked  a  small 
bowl  may  be  used.  This  plan  prevents  the  coagulation  of  the  white,  and  is 
very  delicate. 

Chicken  Panada. 

Skin  the  chicken  and  cut  it  up  in  joints.  Take  all  the  meat  off  the 
bones,  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces ;  put  it  in  a  jar  with  a  little  salt,  tie  it 
down,  and  set  it  in\a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  It  should  boil  from  four 
to  six  hours ;  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve  with  a  little  of  the  broth.  It 
could  be  made  in  a  hurry  in  two  hours,  but  it  is  better  when  longer  time  is 
allowed.    Do  not  put  the  wings  in  the  panada. 

Egg  Toast. 

Toast  well,  but  not  too  brown,  two  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  ;  put  them 
on  a  warm  plate,  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  pour  upon  them  some 
boiling  water  and  quickly  cover  with  another  dish  of  the  same  size.  Put  a 
very  small  bit  of  butter  on  the  toast  and  serve  with  a  poached  or  soft-boiled 
egg  on  it. 

Oatmeal  Blanc  Mange. 

A  delicious  blanc-mange  is  made  by  stirring  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  oatmeal  into  a  little  cold  water,  then  stir  with  a  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
flavor  and  pour  into  molds  to  cool,  when  cream  or  jelly  may  be  eaten  withiti. 


tOOD  i'OR  tNVALIl)&  Idd 

RiOB  Cbsam. 

Oritid  rice  to  a  verj  fine  flour ;  stir  it  with  a  little  oold  milk  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Have  a  pint  of  milk  boiling  slowly,  and  stir  in  the  rioe 
smoothed  in  cold  milk ;  add  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste  ;  stir  all  the  time  un- 
til it  is  done  ;  turn  it  into  a  white  dish.  Now  take  the  white  of  one  egg 
and  wliip  it  to  a  froth  ;  add  pulverized  sugar  to  make  as  for  cake  frosting; 
spread  it  smoothly  over  your  rice,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  three  minuted. 
Thia  is  nice  cold  with  eream,  or  warm  served  with  currant  jelly. 

Panada. 

Sprinkle  large  soda  crackers  with  white  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  then  pour 
on  a  little  more  boiling  water  than  the  crackers  will  absorb.  This  is  a 
pleasant  dish  if  dressed  with  a  frosting  as  the  rice  cream,  or  oovered  with 
strawberries  and  sifted  sugar. 

Cbagkeb  Panada. 

Break  in  pieces  three  or  four  hard  crackers  that  are  baked  quite  brown, 
and  let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  one  quart  of  water  ;  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  let  them  stand  three  or  four  minutes,  strain  off  tlie  liquor  through 
a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  season  it  with  sugar.  This4s  a  nourishing  beverage 
for  infants  that  are  teething,  and,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  wine  and  nut- 
meg, is  often  prescribed  for  invalids  recovering  from  a  fever. 

Irish  Moss  Blano  Manqb. 

8oak  one-half  cup  of  Irish  moss  (to  be  found  at  any  drug  store)  in  cold 
water  until  soft,  pick  over,  wash  carefully,  and  put  into  a  double  boiler  with 
one  quart  of  milk.  Boil  until  it  thickens  when  dropped  on  a  cold  plate. 
Add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  strain  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Turn 
into  a  mold  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

Tapioca  Cup  PuDDiNa. 

This  is  very  light  and  delicate  for  invalids.  An  even  teaspoonful  of 
tapioca,  soaked  for  two  hours  in  nearly  a  cupful  of  new  milk ;  stir  into  this 
the  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg,  a  little  sugar,  a  grain  of  salt,  and  bake  it  in  a  cup 
for  fifteen  minutes.    A  little  jelly  may  be  eaten  with  it. 

Rice  Jelly. 

Mix  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  rice  flour  with  cold  water  until  it  is 
a  smooth  paste,  add  a  scant  pint  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  i 


I 


170        ^  FOOD  FOE  INTALIfiS. 

boil  until  quite  clear.  If  the  jelly  is  intended  for  a  patient  with  summer 
complaiixti  stir  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon ;  if  for  one  with  fever,  flavor  with 
lemon  juice,  and  mold..  Rice  water  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  by  using 
kwice  the  quantity  of  boiling  water. 

Toast  and  Water. 

« 

Toast  slowly  a  thin  piece  of  bread  till  extremely  brown  and  hard,  but 
not  the  least  black ;  then  plunge  it  into  a  jug  of  cold  water,  and  cover  it 
over  an  hour  before  used.  This  is  of  particular  use  in  weak  bowels.  It 
should  be  of  a  fine  brown  color  before  drinking  it. 

Dbikks  for  Invalids. 

Mash  any  kind  of  fruit,  currants,  tamarinds,  berries,  pour  hoUing  water 
on  them.  In  ten  minutes  strain  it  ofip,  sweeten,  cool ;  add  a  little  ice,  if 
possible.  Do  not  allow  this  drink  to  %tand  in  the  sick-chamber,  keep  it  in  a 
cool,  airy  place. 

Boiling  water  poured  over  browned  flour,  or  browned  wheat  or  corn,  or 
evenly  toasted  bread,  and  treated  as  above,  is  also  a  wholesome,  agreeable 
drink  for  the  sick.  Sage,  balm,  and  sorrel  mixed  and  put  with  half  a  sliced 
lemon,  and  treated  as  above,  is  a  valuable  drink  in  fevers. 

Barley  Water. 

Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  well-washed  pearl  barley  into  a  pitcher  t 
pour  over  it  boiling  water ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  remain  till  cold ;  then  drain 
off  the  water ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and,  if  liked,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

Jelly  Water. 

One  large  teaspoonful  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly,  one  gobletfid  of  ice 
water.  Beet  up  well  for  a  fever  patient.  Wild  cherry  or  blackberry  jelly 
lis  exoellent,  prepared  in  like  manner  for  those  suffering  with  summer  com- 
plaint. 

\  MxTLLBD  Jelly. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  currant  or  grape  jelly;  beat  with  it  the 
white  of  one  egg  ^d  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  pour  on  it  a  teaoupful  of  boiL 
ing  water,  and  break  in  a  slice  of  dry  toast  or  two  crackers. 

Fever  Drote. 

Pour  cold  wster  on  wheat  bran,  let  boil  half  an  hour,  strain,  and  add 
sugar  and  lemon^'^jbioe.  Pour  boiling  water  on  flaxseed,  let  stand  till  it  is 
ropy,  peur  into  hot  lemonade  and  drink* 


FOOD  poll  ENVAtflJS. 
Cbbam  of  Tabtab  Dbhtk. 


171 


Two  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  grated  riud  of  a  lemon,  half  a  ou| 
of  loaf  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water>»  is  a  good  summer  drink  for  iu 
yalids,  and  is  cleansing  to  the  blood. 

Flaxseed  Tea. 

Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  (soft  or  rain)  water  upon  an  ounce  of  unbruisei 
flaxseed  and  a  little  pulverized  liquorice  root  and  place  the  vessel  near,  but 
not  on,  the  fire  for  four  hours.  Strain  through  a  linen  cloth.  Make  it 
fresh  every  day.    An  excellent  drink  iu  fever  accompanied  by  a  cough. ' 

Flaxseed  Lemonade. 

To  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flaxseed,  allow  a  tumbler  and  a  half  of  cold 
water.  Boil  them  together  till  the  liquid  becomes  very  sticky.  Then  strain 
it  hot  over  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  pul. 
verized  gum  arable.  Stir  it  till  quite  dissolved,  and  squeeze  into  it  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  This  mixture  has  frequently  been  found  an  efficacious 
remedy  for  a  cold,  taking  a  wine-glassful  of  it  as  often  as  the  cough  is 
troublesome. 


CAiraiNG  AND  PRESERVING. 


Pbesebved  Chbbries. 

Take  large  ripe  morello  cherries;  to  each  pound  allow  a  pound  of  angar. 
As  you  stone  them  throw  them  into  a  large  pan  or  tureen,  and  strew  about 
half  the  sugar  over  them,  and  let  them  lie  in  it  an  hour  or  two  after  they  are 
all  stoned.  Then  put  them  into  a  preserving-kettle  with  the  remainder 
of  the  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim  them  till  the  fruit  is  clear  and  the  aynp 
thick- 

Cbab  Apple  Pbesebyeb. 

Core  the  orab  apples  with  a  sharp  penknife  through  the  blossom  end, 
leaving  the  stems  on.  Take  one  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each  pound  of 
prepared  fruit,  and  one  cupful  of  cold  water  to  the  pound.  Put  over  a 
moderate  fire,  let  dissolve  and  boil ;  skim  and  drop  the  apples  in.  Let  them 
boil  gently  until  clear  and  the  skins  begin  to  break.  Skim  out,  boil  syrup 
until  thick,  put  the  fruit  in  jars  and  pour  syrup  over  it.  Many  think  that 
slices  of  lemon  boiled  with  the  fruit  is  an  improvement.  One  lemon  is 
enough  for  several  pounds  of  fruit. 

Preserved  Green  Tomatoejs. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Slice  six  fresh  lemons  without  re- 
moving the  skins,  but  taking  out  the  seeds;  put  to  this  quantity  six  pounds  of 
sugar,  common  white,  and  boil  until  transparent  and  the  syrup  thick.  Ginger 
Toot  may  be  added,  if  liked. 

Pbesbbyed  Watermelon  Rinds  and  Citbof. 

Pare  off  the  outer  skins  and  all  the  red  part  and  cut  the  white  parts 
into  pieces  two  oir  three  inches  long.  Weigh  the  pieces  and  put  them  in  a 
porcelain -lined  kettle,  putting  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  also,  a  few 
bits  of  alum.  Boil  slowly  ten  minutes.  Then  take  them  out  and  spread  on 
a  dish  to  cool.  Melt  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  rinds, 
with  a  pint  of  water.  Boil  and  skim  the  sugar  and  when  quite  clear  put  in 
the  rinds  and  simmer  gently  until  you  can  pierce  them  with  a  straw.  When 
(172) 


Canning  and  pftESfiRViNO.  1T8 

tender  lift  tlie  pieces  carefully  with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  large  kettle  and 
put  in  the  sun  for  one  or  two  hours  to  harden.  Peal  the  yellow  rind  from 
one  lemon  and  add  to  the  syrup,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  a 
small  piece  of  green  ginger  root  cut  in  thin  slices.  Boil  gently  until  it  is  a 
thick  syrup  and  stand  aside  until  wanted.  When  the  rinds  have  hardened 
put  them  into  the  cans  cold,  bring  the  syrup  again  to  a  boil  and  strain  it 
over  them.     Citron  and  pumpkin  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner. 

Quinces. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces  and  cut  into  rings.  Finish  the  same  as 
peaches,  using  a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  quinces.  The  skin 
ujay  be  used  for  jelly. 

Pineapple. 

Pare  the  pineapple  and  take  out  the  eyes,  then  pick  it  into  pieces  with  a 
silver  fork.  Weigh  it  after  picking  it  apart,  and  to  every  pound  allow  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  P^^t  fruit  and  sugar  in  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  about  fifteen  minutes,  when  it  should 
be  canned  while  boiling  hot. 

Canned  Blackberries, 

• 

To  every  pound  of  berries  take  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the 
berries  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and  put  the  sugar  over  them.  Add  one* 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum  to  each  quart.  Let  them  cook  slowly* 
Cook  five  minutes  after  they  boil  and  can  while  boiling  hot. 

Currants  and  Raspberries. 

To  one  pint  of  large  red  raspberries  allow  a  half  pint  of  currant  juice 
and  a  half  pound  of  sugar.  Put  this  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  bpil  fiva  or 
ten  minutes.    Put  in  cans  while  boiling  hot. 

Canned  Peaches. 

Select  some  fine,  free-stone  peaches ;  pare,  cut  in  two  and  stone  them 
Immerse  in  cold  water,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  fruit.  When  you  have 
enough  to  fill  a  couple  of  jars  take  them  from  the  water,  put  them  in  a 
a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  stand  them  on  the  back 
part  of  the  stove  and  let  simmer  very  getvtly  until  you  can  pierce  them  with  a 
straw.  In  another  vessel  put  one  quart  of  water  and  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Lift 
the  peaches  carefully  with  a  skimmer  from  the  water  to  the  syrup,  bring  to 
a  boil,  skim,  and  can  at  once. 


174  OAimtltG  Alto  Pft]ESfiBVtlfQ> 

Peabs. 

Prepare  and  can  precisely  as  for  peaches.  They  will  require  longed 
cooking.    Bartlett  pears  are  best  for  canning. 

Canned  Strawberries. 

After  the  berries  are  pulled,  let  as  many  as  can  be  pu'  carefully  in  the 
preserving  kettle  at  once  be  placed  on  a  platter.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours,  till 
the  juice  is  drawn  from  them ;  pour  it  in  the  kettle  and  let  it  come  to  aboil, 
and  remove  the  scum  which  rises ;  then  put  in  the  berries  very  carefully. 
As  soon  as  tliey  come  thoroughly  to  a  boil  put  them  in  warm  jars,  and  seal 
while  boiling  hot.  A  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum  to  each 
quart  of  fruit  will  make  them  clear  and  keep  their  shape. 

Canned  Currants. 

Look  them  over  carefully,  stem  and  weigh  them,  allowing  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  every  one  of  fruit ;  put  them  in  a  kettle,  cover,  and  leave  them  to 
heat  slowly  and  stew  gently  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes;  then  add  tlie 
sugar,  and  shake  the  kettle  occasionally  to  make  it  mix  with  the  fiuit ;  do 
not  allow  it  to  boil,  but  keep  as  hot  as  possible  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  pcur.it  in  cans  and  secure  the  covers  at  once.  White  currants  are 
beautiful  preserved  in  this  way. 

Canned  Plums. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  for 
the  thin  syrup,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water.  Select 
fine  fruit,  and  prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting.  Simmer  gently  in  a 
syrup  made  with  the  above  pro[)ortion  of  sugar  and  water.  Let  them  boil 
not  longer  than  five  minutes.  Put  the  plums  in  a  jar,  pour  in  the  hot  syrup, 
ana  seal.    Greengages  are  also  delicious  done  in  this  manner. 

CuERRY  Jam. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cherries  and  put  in  the  preserving  kettle  on 
the  stove  where  they  will  heat  through  slowly.  When  heated  sufiiciently  t> 
prevent  spoiling,  push  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let  them  remain  ovei:- 
night  on  the  seeds.  In  the  morning,  cook  until  very  soft  and  then  put 
through  a  colander,  first  draining  off  the  juice.  Boil  the  juice  down  about 
one-half,  then  add  the,  pulp  and  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  pulp. 
Boil  until  thick  enough  and  can  while  hot.  A  positive  quantity  of  sugar 
eiMi  hardly  be  given,  and  more  may  be  added  if  the  cherries  are  sour. — IL 


CANNING  AND  PIIESERYIN6.  ^  176 

Gbape  Jam. 

Pick  the  grapes  over  carefully,  put  iu  preserving  kettle  and  set  on  the 
back  of  the  stove*  Let  them  cook  slowly  until  soft,  then  put  through  a 
sieve.  Pare,  core,  and  stew  enough  apples  to  have  the  same  amount  stewed 
apples  as  grape  pulp.  Put  through  a  sieve,  mix  apples  and  grapes  together 
and  to  every  quart  add  three  large  cups  of  sugar  and  cook  until  sufficiently 
thick.  Some  grapes  as  well  as  apples  require  more  than  others.  It  is 
always  well  to  sweeten  to  taste.  Clinton  grapes  make  most  excellent  jam 
when  prepared  in  this  manner. — IL  B.  P. 

Quince  Honey. 

One  cup  of  grated  quince,  one  cup  of  water,  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil . 
until  it  is  thick  as  honey  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.    Very  nice. — B.  B.  P. 

Appud  Butter. 

Boil  one  barrel  of  new  cider  down  to  one-third  the  quantity,  peel  and 
core  good  cooking  apples  until  you  have  three  bushels. ,  When  the  eider 
has  boiled  away  sufficiently,  add  the  apples  as  fast  as  you  can,  and  when 
soft,  stir  constantly  until  apple  butter  is  done.  Try  by  taking  a  small  quan- 
tity out  in  a  saucer  and  if  no  cider  appears  around  the  sauce  when  cool,  it  is 
done*  If  wanted  to  be  kept  over  year,  put  in  air-tight  jars,  if  not  put  away 
in  stone  jars,  covering  fii*st  with  writing-paper  cut  to  fit  the  jar  and  press 
down  closely  upon  the  apple  butter;  cover  the  whole  with  thick  brown 
paper  snugly  tied  down.  The  more  you  boil  the  cider  before  adding  apples 
the  less  stirring  will  have  to  be  done.  Allow  enough  cider  to  cover  apples, 
of  course. — B.  B.  P. 

Eqo  Butter. 

Boll  a  pint  of  molasses  slowly  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
to  prevent  burning ;  add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  stirring  them  in  as  feist  as 
possible,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  partially  cool,  and  flavor  to  taste  with 
lemon. 

Lemon  Butteb. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  together  until  very  light ;  then  add  the  whites  of  eggs  well 
beaten.  Put  into  a  farina  kettle  and  stir  over  the  fire  for  about  twenty 
minutes  or  tmttt  it  thickens  tben  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  and 
tOCQ  Into  eaitffien  dish  to  oooL 


/ . 


176 


OA27NING  AND  PRESERVlNa 

Tomato  Pbbseryes. 


Scald  and  peel  carefully  small  perfectly-formed  good  tomatoes,  not  too 
ripe  (yellow  pear-shaped  are  best),  prick  the  end  with  a  knife  and  gently 
Bqneez-e  the  seeds  and  water  out,  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  by  weight, 
let  lie  overnight,  then  pour  off  all  juice  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  boil 
until  it  is  a  thick  syrup,  clarifying  with  white  of  an  egg ;  add  tomatoes  and 
boil  carefully  until  they  look  transparent.  A  piece  or  two  of  root-ginger,  or 
one  lemon  to  a  pound  of  fruit  sliced  thin  and  cooked  with  the  fruit,  may  be 
added— ,8.  5.  P. 

Tomato  Sactob. 

Peel  and  seed  ripe  red  tomatoes,  cook  until  soft,  put  through  sieve. 
Take  equal  quantity  of  good  stewed  apples  and  put  through  sieve.  Add  to 
the  tomatoes  and  to  every  quart  put  three  cupfuls  of  sugar  or  to  taste.  Boil 
until  sufficiently  thick  not  to  run  on  plate.    Flavor  with  lemon. — B.  B.  P.. 

PlOKLED  CHERRTKS. 

Seleot  sound,  large  cherries,  as  large  as  you  can  get  them ;  to  every 
quart  of  cherries  allow  a  large  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  a  dozen  white  cloves,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace ;  put  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  on  to  heat  with  the  spices;  boil  five  minutes,  turn  into  a  covered 
stoneware  vessel ;  cover  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold ;  pack  the  cherries  into 
jars,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  when  cold ;  cork  tightly  and  set  away  ? 
they  are  fit  for  use  almost  immediately. 

SPIOSD  CUBBANTSk 

.  Seven  pounas  of  fruit,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  good  cider 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves. 
Put  into  a  kettle  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  soft ;  then  skim  out  the  fruit, 
patting  it  on  dishes  until  the  syrup  is  boiled  down  thick.  Turn  the  fruit 
back  into  the  syrup  again,  so  as  to  heat  it  all  through ;  then  seal  it  hot  in 
glass  jars,  and  set  it  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  If  you  do  not  like  the  spice 
through  the  fruit  tie  them  in  a  bag  and  boil  in  the  syrup.  Any  tart  fruit 
may  be  put  up  in  this  way,  and  is  considered  a  very  good  embellishment  for 
'3«ldmtaia. 

Spioed  Pbaohbs. 

Seven  pounds  of  whole  pared  peaches  (or  halved  and  seeded  if  liked) 
fOQads  of  sagUTi  one  pint  of  vinegar,  whole  cloves,  all^ice,  and  oinaa* 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING.  177 

mon  to  taste.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  (tie  these  in  a  cheese  cloth 
bag)  together.  Put  in  peaches  and  cook  until  soft.  Can  while  hot. — IL 
B.F. 

To  Cbystallizib  Fruit. 

Pick  out  the  finest  of  any  kind  of  fruit — leave  in  the  stones ;  beat  the 
irhites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  lay  the  fruit  in  the  beaten  egg,  with  the 
stems  upward;  drain  them  and  beat  the  part  that  drips  off  again ;  select , 
them  out,  one  by  one,  and  dig  them  into  a  cupful  of  finely  powdered  sugar ; 
cover  a  pan  with  a  sheet  of  fine  paper,  place  the  fruit  on  ?.t,  and  set  in  a  cool 
oven ;  when  the  icing  on  the  fruit  becomes  firm,  pile  them  on  a  dish,  and  set 
them  in  a  cold  plaoe. 

JSLLIES. 

Jellies  should  always  be  made  in  a  porcelaiii-lined  kettle.  Strain  the 
juice  which  has  been  extracted  from  the  fruit  through  a  coarse  flannel  bag 
wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Use  the  best  granulated  sugar  and  do  not  have 
the  fruit,  especially  currants  and  grapes,  overripe.  Make  not  over  two  or 
three  pints  of  jelly  at  a  time,  as  larger  quantities  require  longer  boiling.  As 
a  general  rule  allow  equal  measures  of  juice  and  sugar.  Boil  juice  rapidly 
ten  miautes  from  the  first  moment  of  boiling,  skim,  add  sugar,  and  boil,  ten 
minutes  longet.  Never  attempt  to  make  jelly  in  damp  or  cloudy  weather  if 
firmness  and  clearness  are  desired.  To  test  jelly,  drop  a  little  in  a  saucer, 
Mt  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  plaoe :  if  it  does  not  spread  but  remains  rounded  and 
^'jells'' it  it  finished. 

Applb  Jelly. 

Select  tart  apples;  slice  and  quarter  them  without  paring ;  plaoe  in  a 
porcelain  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  water,  and  let  them  cook  slowly  until 
the  apples  look  red.  Drain  off  the  juice  through  a  colander,  and  then 
through  a  jelly-bag;  return  to  the  kettle,  which  must  be  carefully  washed, 
and  boil  half  an  hour;  measure  it  and  allow  to  every  pint  of  juice  a  pound 
of  sugar  and  half  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes.  Three 
or  four  leaves  of  the  rose  geranium  washed  clean  and  drawn  tlirough  the 
jelly  gives  it  a  delightful  flavor. 

Cider  Jelly. 

Take  the  older  Just  as  it  is  made,  not  allowing  it  to  ferment  at  all,  and, 
if  possible,  l>oil  it  in  a  very  large,  flat,  shallow  pan  without  a  particle  of 
sugar  and  you  will  have  a  beautiful  jelly. 


178 


CANNu^G  AND  PBESERVDiUi. 

Cbakbbbby  Jelly. 


Wash  one  quart  of  cranberries  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  one-half  pint  of 
water^  then  mash  and  squeeze  through  a  bag,  return  to  kettle*  add  one  pound 
of  sugar  and  boil  rapidly  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  When  it  jellies 
turn  into  molds. 

Plum  Jbllt. 

Use  the  common  blue  plums.  Wash  one-half  peck  of  thtm  in  oold 
water  and  stew  slowly  in  a  pint  of  water  till  the  plums  fall  to  pieces,  then 
turn  into  a  flannel  bag  and  let  drip  slowly ;  do  not  squeeze  or  the  jelly  will 
not  be  clear.  Put  the  juice  into  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  and  bring  it  quickly 
to  a  boil,  add  the  sugar — one  pound  to  every  pint  of  juice — and  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  continuously  until  it  jellies,  skimming  the 
scum  as  faet  as  it  rises ;  twenty  minutes  is  generally  suflBcient  but  some- 
times more  is  needed  before  it  will  jelly  properly.  Test  it  afler  boiling 
fifteen  minutes. "  As  soon  as  it  jellies,  fill  the  tumblers  which  have  been 
stood  in  boiling  water  to  prevent  them  cracking.  Set  away  until  cold  and 
firm — ^then  put  on  the  lids  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place* 

*  ■ 

Orakob  Jbllt. 

OoTer  one  box  of  gelatine  with  one  pint  of  oold  water  and  let  soak  one 
honr,  then  add  one  pint  of  foiling  water,  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of 
orange  juice,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain,  pour  into  molds  and  set 
in  a  oold  place  to  harden. 

Lbmok  Jbllt. 

Made  the  same  as  orange  jelly,  but  use  three  laige  lemons  and  one 
|uart  of  boiling  water. 


PICKLES  AKD  CATSUP. 


Gebkn  Tomato  Pioelb. 

Slioe  one  peok  of  green  tomatoes^  six  green  peppers  and  four  cmions ; 
itrew  a  cup  of  salt  over  the  slices  in  layere  and  let  stand  one  night.  The 
next  day,  turn  the  water  ofiF  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  ground  cloves,  and  the  same  of  allspice  and  cinnamon ;  cover  with  vine* 
gar,  boil  soft  and  cover  tight.    This  will  be  readj  to  eat  in*  three  daja» 

Bordeaux  Saucb. 

One  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped,  two  gallons  of  cabbage,  one 
dozen  green  peppers,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one  dosen  of  onions  chopped,  one  ounce 
of  whole  cloves,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  one 
ounce  of  celery  seed,  one  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  salt  to  taste.  Let  simmer 
one-half  hour  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle.    Put  away  in  glass  or  stone  jais. 

.  Tomato  Chowchow. 

Cat  up  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes ;  take  them  through  a  small  meat  cut* 
ter,  add  one  dosen  of  green  and  red  peppers,  one  dosen  of  white  onions,  salt 
them  down,  and  press  them  until  next  morning ;  pour  off  the  juice,  then  mix 
two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard  seed, 
or  less  if  you  like  it,  pne  ounce  of  celery  seed,  and  cover  well  with  vinegar, 
Lfook  at  it  once  or  twice  a  week  to  see  if  it  is  well  covered  in  vinegar. 

PlOKLBD  GhBKKINS. 

One  basket  of  gherkins,  washed  thoroughly ;  make  a  brine  strong 
enough  to  float  an  egg.  Leave  gherkins  in  brine  for  about  three  days ;  take 
out,  and  wash  again.  For  spicing,  use  whole  allspice,  cloves,  mace  and  mtis« 
tard  seed  ,  into  a  stone  jar  place  first  a  layer  of  gherkins,  then  sprinkle  with 
the  spices,  and  alternate  gherkins  and  spices  until  the  jar  is  nearly  fulL 
Cover  with  boiling  vinegar  ;  a  root  of  horse-radish  placed  on  top  will  be  » 
sure  preventive  of  molding. 


180 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPa 


\ 


Chiu  Sauce. 

Nine  U?2[e  ripe  tomatoes,  two  onions,  one  green  pepper,  balf  cnp  of 
nugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoouful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonfal  of  all* 
4pice,  one  teaspoonfal  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Skin  tomatoesi 
•hop  all  together  and  simmer  one  hour. 

Pickled  Cherbibs. 

To  etLch  pint  of  cherries  allow  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  and  one  table* 
tfpoonful  of  white  sugar,  with  six  wliole  cloves,  three  blades  of  mace ;  boil 
.  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  for  five  minutes.     Put  cherries  into  a  covered 
stone  jar,  and  pour  hot  liquid  over  them ;  cover  and  let  get  perfectly  cold. 

Piccalilli.  No.  1. 

One  peek  of  green  tomatoes ;  (if  the  flavor  of  onions  is  desired,  take 
'  eight,  but  it  is  very  nice  without  any) ;  four  green  peppers ;  slice  all,  and 
put  in  layers,  sprinkle  on  one  cup  of  salt,  and  let  them  remain  overnight ;  in 
the  morning  press  dry  through  a  sieve,  put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover 
with  vinegar ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoouful  of  each  kind  of  spice ; 
stew  slowly  about  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  A  most  delicious  accompani- 
ment for  any  kind  of  meat  or  fish. 

PiCCALILLL     No.  2. 

Four  quarts  each  of  cut  cucumbers,  beans,  celery,  nasturtiums,  and 
oabbi^e  and  two  quarts  each  of  cut  peppers  and  onions.  Pour  on  boiling 
vinegari  flavored  strongly  with  mustard,  mustard  seed,  and  ground  cloves. 

Pickled  Onions. 

4 

*  Skin  small  white  button  onions ;  lay  in  salt  and  water  overnight.    Boil 

enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  with  mace,  and  whole  peppercorns,  half 

ounce  each  for  half  peck  of  onions.     When  the  vinegar  and  spices  boil  put 

onions  in  for  five  minutes ;  when  cold  put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bottles  and 

.  cork  them  dose. 

Shiblet  Sauob. 

One-half  peek  of  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  oiiopped  fine.  Chop  vety 
fine,  four  green  peppers  and,  if  desired,  four  onions.  Mix  and  add  six  table 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of  salt,  three  of  ground  oloves,  two  of  allspice  and 
one  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  on  back  of  stove  till  thick  enough— about  two 
boun* 


HCKLE3  AStD  CATSUPS.  181 

Pickled  Walnuxs. 

One  hundrtju  walnuts,  aalt  and  water.  To  each  quart  of  vinegar  allow 
Jwo  ounces  of  whole  Ijlaok  pepper,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of 
bruised  ginger.  ProciXTO  Ae  waluuts  while  young  ;  bo  careful  they  are  not 
woody,  and  prick  them  well  fidth  a  fork  ;  prepare  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and 
Krater  (four  pounds  of  salt  to  each  gallon  of  water),  into  which  put  the  wal- 
nuts, letting  them  remaTxi  nine  days,  and  changing  the  brine  every  third  day ^ 
drain  them  off,  put  thOBa  0&)  a  dish,  place  it  in  the  sun  until  they  become 
perfectly  black,  which  toU  Le  in  two  or  three  days ;  have  ready  dry  jars, 
into  which  place  the  \filniltB,  and  do  not  quite  fill  the  jars.  Boil  sufficient 
vinegar  to  cover  them,  for  ten'  minutes,  with  spices  in  the  above  proportion, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  walnuts,  which  must  be  quite  covered  with  the 
pickle  ;  tie  down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  dry  place.  They  will  be  fit  for 
use  in  a  month,  and  will  keep  good  two  or  three  years. 

Chowcuow. 

One-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes  cut  fine,  one  half  peck  of  small 
onions,  parboiled,  three  dozen  of  small  cucumbers,  one  pint  of  nasturtiums, 
nine  sweet  peppers,  cut  fine,  two  quarts  of  string  beans,  parboiled,  two 
quarts  of  lima  beans,  parboiled,  two  quarts  of  sweet  corn,  parboiled,  ohe 
large  head  oi  cabbage,  cut  fine,  one  head  caulifiower,  parboiled,  one-half 
teacupful  of  salt,  a  heaping  tablespoonf ul  of  turmeric,  half  a  pound  of  ground 
mustard,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  a  teacupful  of  cornstarch,  vinegar 
to  cover.  Put  over  fire  and  just  let  come  to  a  boil.  Bottle  and  cork  while* 
boiling  hot.~JS.  B.  P. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

Take  one  hundred  green  Wcilnuts  that  are  young  enough  to  be  pierced 
easily  with  a  pin.  Pierce  each  in  five  or  six  places,  put  in  an  earthern  ves- 
ael,  cover  with  a  half  pound  of  salt  and  two  quarts  of  vinegar.  Cover  and 
stand  aside  for  six  days,  mashing  and  stirring  eTery  day.  At  the  end  of 
that  time,  strain  and  squeeze  every  drop  of  liquor  from  the  walnuts.  *  Add 
a  half  pint  of  vinegar  to  the  remaining  husks,  beat  them  vnth  a  potato 
masher,  and  squeeze  again.  Turn  all  this  liquor  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add 
to  it  one  ounce  of  whole  peppercorns,  forty  cloves  slightly  biiiised,  a  quarter 
ounce  of  whole  mace,  a  quarter  ounce  of  nutmeg  cut  in  thin  slices,  a  small 
loot  of  horse-radish  cut  in  slices,  one  blade  of  garlic  chopped,  one  red  pep* 
per,  a  halt  pound  of  anchovies,  and  a  quarrer  ounce  of  green  ginger  root 
out  in  slices.    Bring  this  mixture  slowly  ^  ^  (^Q^^  cover  the  kettle  closelji^ 


182 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPa 


and  boil  slow/y  a  half  hour.  Then  straini  and  stand  aside  to  oool.  Whet 
cool,  add  one  pint  of  port  wine ;  bottle*  cork  tightly,  and  seal.  This  should 
stand  fhree  or  four  months  before  using. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

One  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  one-half  gallon  of  vinegar,  one-half  pound 
of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  salt,  one  and  one -half  ounces  of  black  pepper* 
one  aud  one-half  ounces  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  mustard,  one  ounce  of 
ginger,  one-half  ounce  of  doves,  one-eighth  of  an  ounce  of  cayenne.  Put 
the  tomatoes  on  to  boil,  boil  gently  half  an  hour,  then  press  them  through 
a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds  and  skins..  Return  this  liquid  to  a  procelain 
lined  kettle,  and  boil  down  to  one  and  one-half  gallons;  then  add  tlie 
vinegar  and  boil  down  to  one  and  three-quarter  gallons;  then  add  the 
sugar,  salt,  and  spices ;  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Let  boil  and  bottle 
while  hot — ^seal  tight. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. 

Scald,  peel,  seed,  cut  fine,  and  put  through  a  colander  a  half  peck  of 
ripe  tomatoes.  Drain  in  a  bag  six  hours,  then  add  a  scant  half  cupful  of 
f^ne  salt,  one-half  a  cupful  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  two  roots  of  celery  chopped  fine,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
one  cupful  of  nasturtiums  chopped  fine,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table* 
spoonful  of  ground  cloves,  and  vinegar  to  thin.  Mix  all  well  together* 
bottle  and  seaL-^ii.  B.  P. 

PioKLSD  Cabbage. 

Take  one  gallon  of  chopped  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Then  mix  with  two  gills  of  mustard  seed, 
one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves  and  one  pint  of  chopped  onions^ 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed.  Cover  with  good  cider  vinegar. — R,  B.  P 


CiJroiES. 


Candies  Without  Cooking. 

Very  many  caDdies  made  by  confectioners  are  made  without  boiling, 
which  makes  them  yery  desirable,  and  they  are  equal  to  the  best  ^^  French 
creams.*'  The  secret  lies  in  the  sugar  used,  which  is  the  XXX  powdered  or 
confectioners'  sugar.  Ordinary  powdered  sugar,  when  rubbed  betwjeen  the 
thumb  and  finger  has  a  decided  grain,  but  tlie  confectioners'  sugar  is  as  fine 
as  flour.    The  candies  made  after  this  process  are  better  the  day  after. 

Chocolate  Cabambls.    No.  1. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  pound 
of  butter,  one  bar  of  chocolate.  Put  molasses,  sugar,  and  part  of  milk  on 
to  boil.  Take  remainder  of  milk  and  chocolate  and  heat  until  melted, 
then  add  to  molasses.  Add  butter  last  and  boil  until  it  hardens  quickly, 
when  a  few  drops  are  put  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  It  is  then  done  and 
should  be  lifted  quickly.  Turn  into  a  greased  square  pan,  and,  when  partly 
cool,  mark  into  squares  with  a  dull  knife.  Stand  in  a  cool,  dry  place  to 
harden. 

Chocolate  Caramels.    No.  2. 

Put  into  a  granite  saucepan  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
one-half  bar  of  chocolate,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Let  it  heat  and 
stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  and  make  and  finish  as  in  the  preceding 
recipe. 

m 

Vanilla  Cabamels. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
and  one  cup  of  cream.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  until  it  creams,  add 
cream  and  molasses  and  boil  and  finish  as  the  preceding  recipes.  When 
done,  and  before  putting  in  pans  add  vanilla  to  taste. 

(188) 


/ 


/ 


■ 

/ 


.184  CANDIES. 

Cbbam  Chocolates.    No.  1. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cold 
water,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  a  little  boil« 
iiig  water.  Beat  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  dissolved.  Take 
spoon  out  and  set  over  fire.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  becomes  a  jelly 
(try  by  cooling  a  little  in  a  spoon.)  Take  from  stove,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  cold 
when  it  should  be  creamy.  (If  not  stifip  enough,  you  can  place  on  the  stove 
and  boil  a  little  longer,  though  they  will  not  be  so  nice.)  Turn  out  on  a 
marble  slab  or  large  platter  which  has  been  dusted  with  powdered  sugar. 
Knead  well,  then  begin  molding  the  pyramids  and  stand  on  greased  paper  to 
cool.  Let  stand  two  or  three  hours.  Then  grate  one-half  bar  of  chocolate 
in  a  bright  tin  basin,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  to  melt  and  keep  the  pan 
in  the  boiling  water  while  using  to  prevent  chocolate  from  hardening.  Sift 
a  molded  cream  drop,  hold  in  Angers,  and  with  a  knife  smooth  the  melted 
chocolate  over  it,  slide  back  on  greased  paper.  Tlie  syrup  may  be  separated 
and  different  flavor  added.  All  kinds  of  nuts  may  be  used  with  this  cream, 
and  a  great  variety  of  candies  made.  As  cream  walnuts,  dates,  figs,  al- 
monds, citron,  raisins,  etc. — R.  B.  P. 

f//*  Cream  Walnuts. 

'-.-J  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  adding  gradu« 
ally  one  pound  of  confectioners'  xxx  or  xxxx  sugar.  Flavor  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  flavoring,  knead  the  mass  to  the  consistency  of  dough,  mould 
into  balls  the  size  of  marbles,  press  a  walnut  on  either  side  and  lay  on 
greased  paper  to  harden. 

Cebam  Chocolates.  No.  2. 

< 

;   The  cream  m^y  be  made  as  for  cream  walnuts,  and  the  chocolates  fin> 

ished  as  in  preceding  recipe  for  cream  chocolates. 

I 
,     Mint  and  Vanilla  Drops. 

Make  the  cream  as  Cream  Chocolates  No.  1,  flavor  the  compound  witli 
peppermint  or  vanilla  extract  and  before  it  gets  cold  (do  not  knead)  drop  on 
battered  paper,  or  they  may  be  made  as  cream  walnuts  using  less  sugar  that 
they  may  be  dropped. 

CocoANUT  Candy.  No.  1. 

ft 

Make  the  cream  as  in  Chocolate  Candy  No.  1,  flavor  with  orange  and 
stir  in  two  cups  of  grated,  cocoanut  when  the  sugar  first  begins  to  get 


\ 

I 


I 
\ 


CANDIES.  18$ 

oreaniy.     Put  on  marble  Blab,  knead,  and  spread  out  to  the  thickness  of 
three-fourths  of  an  inch.    Cut  in  squares  and  plaoe  on  greased  paper  to  cooL 

CocoANUT  Candy  No.  2. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  sugar  in  one  cup  of  cocoanut  milk  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  whole  grated  cocoanut  and  then  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  in  pans 
and  cut  in  squares. 

Tafft. 

Stir  one-half  pint  of  water  and  three  cups  of  confectioners*  A  sugar  over 
the  fire  until  dissolved,  then  boil.  When  nearly  done  add  three  tablespodh- 
fuls  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonf ul  of  lemon  juice.  Boil  to  the  "  crack,"  that 
is  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water  it  hardens  quickly  and  when  bended 
will  **  crack  **  or  snap  and  not  stick  to  the  teeth.  Then  add  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  vanilla  and  turn  out  in  shallow  pans  to  cooL 

Shbllbark  Taffy. 

« 

Stir  well  together  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of 
water  until  dissolved,  set  over  the  fire  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vine* 
gar ;  do  not  stir  after  putting  on  the  stove.  Boil  to  the  crack,  and  then 
having  a  layer  of  nuts  in  a  pan,  pour  over  them  just  enough  syrup  to  cover 
them. 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  melted  butter.  Mix  all  together  and  boil, 
stirring  all  the  while  until  it  hardens  and  cracks  when  dropped  in  cold 
water;  then  add  if  liked  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  soda,  and  pour  into  buttered 
tins,  or,  when  cool,  pull  and  cut  in  sticks.  While  pulling,  brush  the 
hands  with  butter  or  moisten  them  with  ice  water.  The  longer  it  is  pulledy 
the  whiter  and  nicer  it  will  become,  both  in  color  and  taste.— JL  B.  P. 

Walnut  and  Peanut  Molasses  Candies. 

Make  a  plain  molasses  candy,  and  when  done,  grease  deep  square  pans 
with  butter,  put  the  kernels  in  the  bottom  of  pan  and  pour  the  candy  over 
(benu 


At 


,    t 


(86 


CANDIEa 

Lbmok  Dbops. 


Upon  a  onpful  of 'finely  powdered  sugar,  pour  juBt  enough  lemon  juice 
to  diflsolre  it,  and  boil  untU  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Drop  thia 
on  battered  plates  in  drops ;  set  away  to  cool  and  harden. 

BUTTHE-SOOTOH. 

Three  cnpfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  one-half  cupful  of  rine- 
gar.  Stir  before  putting  on  the  stove,  but  not  after.  When  partly  done 
add  three  large  teaspoonfuls  of  butter.  Just  before  taking  from  the  stOTe 
stir  in  one-half  teaepoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  few  drops  of  hot  water. 
When  oool  enough  to  handle,  pull  until  white. 

•  Nougat. 

^  Grease  a  square,  shallow  pan  well  with  butter.  Fill  with  hickory-nut 
kernels,  BraKilj|n  nuts  but  in  slices,  almonds,  cocoanut  cut  in  thin  strips, 
dates,  and  a  l(w  bits  of  candied  orange  peel  or  any  nuts  you  have  cut  up 
flue.  Boil  two"  pounds  of  gugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  together  without 
stirring  (after  the  sugar  melts)  until  it  hardens  and  becomes  brittle  when 
dropped  in  cold  water;  then  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice, and  pour 
into  the  pans  over  the  nuts,  mark  out  in  squares  with  a  knife  when  nearly 
•old. 


HOMEBEMEDIE& 


Ah  ** emergency  closet*'  is  something  each  home  should  possess  and  b 
an  inyalaable  auxiliary  to  a  sick  room.  It  can  be  furnished  with  the  follow- 
ing articles  at  a  moderate  expense :  A  hard-rubber  syringe,  fountain  syringe, 
bed*pan,  rubber  sheet,  rubber  water  bottle,  rubber  air  cushion/ rubber  ice 
cap,  a  large  and  small  paper  basin,  gas  or  kerosene  stove  on  same  floor,  but 
not  in  the  sick  room,  tin  kettle  for  poultices,  large  spoon,  minim  glass, 
sputa  cup,  teaspoons  and  drinking  glasses,  a  half-covered  drinking  cup, 
which  will  allow  feeding  the  patient  without  raising  the  head,  spatula  for 
spreading  plasters,  glass  graduate  for  measuring  fluids  of  the  body,  glass 
graduate  for  measuring  medicine.  A  bottle  of  pure  vaseline,  a  bottle  of 
brandy,  and  some  disinfectant  should  always  be  handy,  also  a  bottle  of  pre^ 
pared  mustard  plaster.  It  would  be  well  to  have  a  drawer  for  old  linen, 
cotton,  tape,  thimble,  needle,  thread,  scissors,  safety  pins,  common  pinsr 
bandages,  old  sheets,  and  nightgowns,  and  old  soft  linen. handkerchiefs. 

# 

A  Bread  and  Milk  Poultice. 

Put  a  ttiblespoonful  of  tlie  crumbs  of  stale  bread  into  a  gill  of  milk,  and 
give  the  whole  one  boil  up.  Or,  take  stale  bread-crumbs,  pour  over  them 
boiling  water,  and  boil  till  soft,  stirring  well ;  take  from  the  fire  and  gradu- 
ally stir  in  a  little  glycerine  or  sweet  oil,  so  as  to  render  the  poultice  pliable 
when  applied. 

A  Hop  Poultice. 

Boil  one  handful  of  dried  hops  in  half  a  pint  of  water  until  the  half 
jdnt  is  reduce^  to  a  gill,  then  stir  into  it  enough  Indian  meal  to  thicken  it. 

For  Sick  Headache. 

Lay  a  cold  wet  cloth  on  the  stomach  with  dry  flannel  over  it,  put  the 
feet  into  hot  mustard  water,  and  swallow  a  few  spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice. 

^87) 


188  BOME  REMEDIES. 

To  Pbbvent  Taking  Cold. 

If  out  in  cold  weather  with  insufficient  clothing  or  wrappings,  fold  a 
newspaper  and  spread  across  the  chest.  Persons  having  weak  lungs  can  ia 
this  way  make  for  themselves  a  very  cheap  and  perfect  lung  protector* 
liarge  papers  spread  between  quilts  at  night,  add  much  to  the  warmth. 

Fob  Cold  in  the  Head. 

As  soon  as  you  feel  that  you  have  a  cold  in  the  head,  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  in  a  goblet,  and  on  it  .put  six  drops  of  camphor,  stir  it,  and  fill  the 
glass  half-full  of  water ;  stir,  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  take  a  dessert- 
spoonful every  twenty  minutes.  This  is  sure  cure  if  taken  as  directed.  If 
you  have  a  cold  ^^  hanging  on,*'  which  is  not  very  bad,  a  liberal  drink  of  cold 
water  just  before  going  to  bed  and  extra  bedclothes  is  good  without  medi* 
oine.    What  you  do,  do  well. 

Cboup, 

Croup,  it  is  said,  can  be  cured  in  one  minute,  and  the  remedy  is  simply 
alum  and  sugar.  The  way  to  accomplish  the  deed  is  to  take  a  knife  or 
grater,  and  shave  oif  in  small  particle^  about  a  teaspoonful  of  alum;  then 
mix  it  with  twice  its  amount  of  sugar,  to  make  it  palatable,  and  administer 
it  as  quickly  as  possible.  Almost  instantaneous  relief  will  follow.  Turpen- 
tine as  also  a  sovereign  remedy  for  croup.  Saturate  a  piece  of  iSannel  with 
it,  and  place  the  flannel  on  the  throat  and  chest — and  in  very  severe  oases, 
three  to  five  drops  on  a  lump  6f  sugar  may  be  taken  internally,  or  warm  a 
teaspoon  with  a  little  lard  in  it  or  goose  grease ;  thicken  with  sugar,  and 
giV{9  it  to  the  child;  it  may  produce  vomiting,  which  is  always  desirable, 
thus  breaking  up  the  membrane  that  is  forming.  Apply  lard  or  goose  grease 
to  throat  and  chest,  with  raw  cotton  or  flannel.  Care  should  be  taken,  re* 
moving  only  a  small  piece  at  a  time  of  these  extra  wraps  to  prevent  taking 
cold. 

Gbowikg  Pains  Cubed. 

Wring  a  towel  from  salted  water,  wrap  the  limb  in  it  from  the  ankle 
to  knee,  without  taking  the  child  from  his  bed,  and  then  swathe  with  dry 
flannels,  thick  and  warm,  tucking  the  blankets  about  him  a  little  closer,  and 
relief  is  sure. 


HOMfi  &£M£Dt£S.  IB9 

Foreign  Body  in  Nostril. 

Children  often  push  foreign  bodies  up  the  nostril.  To  remove  it,  make 
the  cliild  draw  a  full  breath,  and  then,  closing  the  other  nostxil  with  the 
finger,  and  the  mouth  with  the  hand,  expel  the  air  from  the  lungs  by  a  sharp 
blow  on  the  back.  If  it  can  not  be  removed  in  this  way,  compress  the  nos- 
tril above  it  to  prevent  its  going  up  any  further,  and  hook  it  out  \pitb  the 
bent  end  of  a  wire  or  bodkin.    If  this  fails,  call  a  surgeon. 

Foreign  Bodies  in  the  Ear. 

Take  the  head  of  the  child  between  the  knees,  face  downward,  and  in- 
ject a  stream  of  warm  water  into  the  car,  holding  the  nozzle  of  the  syringe 
outside,  so  as  to  allow  the  foreign  body  to  come  out  with  the  water.  Prob- 
ing, with  any  substance  whatever,,  is  very  dangerous,  and  may  inflict  per- 
manent injury.  When  the  above  plan  does  not  succeed,  call  a  surgeon. 
Kill  insects  that  get  into  the  ear  by  pouring  in  sweet  oil  or  glycerine,  which 
drowns  and  brings  them  to  the  surface. 

Earache. 

Place  a  little  cotton-wool,  saturated  with  chloroform,  in  a  new  clay 
pipe ;  insert  the  stem  of  the  pipe  in  the  patient's  ear,  close  the  lips  over  the 
bowl  of  the  pipe,  and  blow  gently.  The  evaporating  chloroform  will  relieve 
the  pain  immediately.  Warm  poultices,  or  a  drop  of  warm  olive  oil,  mixed 
with  a  like  amount  of  laudanum,  dropped  into  the  ear,  may  also  be  used. 

Ringworm. 

A  very  simple,  yet  effective  manner  of  curing  ringworm  is  to  place  on 
the  affected  part,  for  a  short  time  every  night,  a  copper  coin  which  has  re* 
mained  for  some  time  in  vinegar,  and  is  still  wet  with  the  liquid.  It  is  also 
well  to  bathe  the  ringworm  with  a  solution  of  two  grains  of  iodide  of  potasb 
in  one  ounce  of  water. 

Burns  and  Scalds. 

A  piece  of  cotton  wadding,  spread  with  butter  or  sweet  oil,  and  bound 
on  the  burn  instantly,  will  draw  out  the  pain  without  leaving  a  scar ;  also  a 
handful  of  flour,  bound  on  instantly,  will  prevent  blistering.  The  object  is 
to  entirely  exclude  the  air  from  the  part  affected.  Some  use  common  baking 
soda,  dry  or  wet,  often  giving  instant  relief,  withdrawing  the  heat*  and  pain. 
Another  valuable  remedy  is  to  beat  the  yellow  of  an  egg  into  linseed  oil,  and 
apply  it  with  a  feather  on  the  injured  part  frequently.  It  will  afford  ready 
relief,  and  heals  with  great  rapidity.    Some  recommend  the  white  part  of 


190  HOME  REMEDIES. 

the  egg,  which  is  very  cooling  and  soothing,  and  soon  allays  the  smarting  • 
pain.     It  is  the  exposure  of  the  part  coming  in  contact  with  the  air  that 
gives  the  extreme  discomfort  experienced  from  ordinary  afflictions  of  this 
kind,  and  anything  which  excludes  air  and  prevents  inflammation  is  tht 
thing  to  be  at  once  applied. 

Boils. 

The  skin  of  a  boiled  egg  is  the  most  efficacious  remedy  that  can  be  ap* 
plied  to  a  boil.  Peel  it  carefully,  wet  and  apply  to  the  part  affected.  It 
will  draw  off  the  matter,  and  relieve  the  soreness  in  a  few  hours,  or  flaxseed 
meal  poultices  applied  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  are  very  good. 

Bleeding  at  the  Nobb. 

Roll  up  a  piece  of  paper  and  press  it  under  the  upper  lip.  In  obstinate 
cases,  blow  a  little  gum  arable  up  the  nostril  through  a  quill,  which  will  iin- 
mediately  stop  the  discharge ;  powdered  alum,  dissolved  in  water,  is  also 
good.  Pressure  by  the  flnger  over  the  small  artery  near  the  ala  (wing)  of 
the  nose,  on  the  side  where  the  blood  is  flowing,  is  said  to  ari'est  the  hemor- 
'rhage  immediately.  Sometimes  by  wringing  a  cloth  out  of  very  hot  water^ 
and  laying  it  on  the  back  of  the  neck,  gives  relief.  Napkins  wrung  out  of 
cold  water  must  be  laid  across  the  forehead  and  nose,  the  hands  dipped  id 
cold  water,  and  a  bottle  of  hot  water  applied  to  the  feet. 

I 

Choking. 

If  possible,  remove  the  offending  substance  at  once  with  the  fingers,  or 
with  blunt  scissors  used  as  forceps,  or  a  loop  of  small  wire  bent  like  a  hair- 
pin. It  may  be  possible  to  dislodge  it  by  blowing  strongly  in  the  ear,  or  by 
causing  the  patient  to  vomit  by  tickling  the  throat.  In  a  child  these  efforts 
may  be  aided  by  holding  it  up  by  the  legs.  If  pins,  needles,  or  fish  bones 
get  in  the  throat,  they  frequently  require  gre^tt  care  in  attempts  at  removal. 
A  surgeon  had  bettier  be  called  as  soon  as  possible  if  the  body  cannot  be  dis^ 
lodged  at  once,  and  especially  if  there  be  difficulty  in  breathing. 

Cholera  Morbus. 

This  affection  often  requires  that  something  be  done  at  once.  For  thi9 
.  purpose,  thirty  drops  of  laudanum  or  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  paregorio 
may  be  given  to  an  adult,  or  proportionate  doses  for  children.  Also  appl; 
over  th«  stomach  a  mustard  plaster  or  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and 
turpentine,  and  frequently  changed.  If  relief  is  not  soon  obtained,  seek  the 
advice  of  a  physician* 


.^^ 


HOME  REMEDIES  Ift 

Sleeplessness 

Caased  by  too  muoh  blood  in  the  head  may  be  overcome  by  applying  i(  x^l^H 
wet  with  cold  water  to  the  back  of  the  neck. 

Hemorbhages  of  the  Lungs  or  Stomach 

Are  promptly  checked  by  small  doses  of  salt.    The  patient  should  be  kep^ 
as  quiet  as  possible. 

Worms. 

A  nice  dish  of  boiled  onions  for  supper  once  a  week  is  one  of  the  best 
bI  medicines  for  keeping  children  free  from  worms. 

BLACKBIfiEBY   CORDIAL  FOB   DiABBHCEA   OB   DYSBNTEBT. 

Warm  aud  squeeze  the  berries  ;  add  to  one  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of 
white  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one-fourth  ounce  of 
mace,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  one-fourth  of  an 
hour ;  strain  the  syrup  and  to  each  pint  add  one  glass  of  French  brandy. 
Dose,  one  tablespoonful  for  an  adult  and  one  tcaspoonful  for  a  child.— JS. 
B.P. 

Ointment  fob  Tetter  ob  Ringwobms. 

One -fourth  of  a  pound  of  unsalted  butter,  one-half  of  an  ounce  oi  red 
presipit,  and  one  ounce  of  Venice  turpentine.  Put  all  together,  beat  wellf 
and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Luey  Wilson. 

Blaokbebby  Sybup. 

One  quart  of  blackberry  juice,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of 
grated  nutmeg,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-fourth  ounce  of  cloves  and 
one-fourth  ounce  of  allspice.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  bottle.  This  is  good 
for  children  in  case  of  diarrhoDa,  not  being  so  strong  as  the  Blackberry 
CordidL 

Fob  Sorb  Thboat, 

Out  slices  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon ;  simmer  a  few  moments  in  hot  vine- 
gar, and  apply  to  throat  as  hot  as  possible.  When  this  is  taken  olF,  as  the 
throat  is  relieved,  put  around  a  bandage  of  soft  flannel.  A  gargle  of  equal 
parts  of  borax  and  alum,  dissolved  in  water,  is  also  excellent.  To  be  used 
frequently,  or  use  as  a  remedy  one  ounce  of  camphorated  oil  and  five  cents 
worth  of  chlorate  of  potash.  Put  the  potash  ik\  hah  a  tumbler  of  water,  and 
witb  it  gargle  the  throat  thoroughly,  then  rub  the  neck  thoroughly  with  the 


t  ' 


192 


HOME  REMEDIE& 


oamphorated  oil  at  night  before  going  to  bed,  and  pin  around  the  throat  a 

smair  strip  of  woolen  flannel.     A   flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water,  and 

sprinkled  with  turpentine,  laid  on  the  chest  as  quickly  as  possible,  wiil  re- 

lieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarseness. 

* 

Ivy  Poisoning. 

A  simple  and  effectual  remedy  for  ivy  poisoning,  is  said  to  be  sweet 
spirits  of  nitre.     Bathe  the  affected  parts  two  or  three  times 'during  the  day 
and  the  next  morning  scarcely  any  trace  of  the  poison  will  remain. 

Antidotes  for  Poisons. 

If  any  poison  is  swallowed,  drink  at  once  a  half  glass  of  warm  water 
with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  each  of  common  salt  and  ground  mustard.  This 
causes  ^vomiting  as  soon  as  it  reaches  the  stomach,  then  swallow  tlie  white 
of  one  or  two  eggs  or  drink  a  cup  of  strong  coffee.  For  ammonia,  give 
vinegar  freely.  For  zinc,  give  white  of  eggs  and  sweet  milk.  For  lau- 
damun,  give  an  emetic  of  mustard  and  water.  For  alcohol,  give  common  salt, 
moderately.  For  arsenic,  give  magnesia  in  large  draughts.  For  insects 
taken  into  the  stomach,  give  small  quantities  of  salt  and  vinegar.  For  bite 
of  insects,  apply  ammonia  freely.  For  bite  of  serpent  or  mad-dog  bite  apply 
fire  in  some  form  to  the  wound,  thoroughly  and  immediately. 


\ 


LAUNDRY  RECIPE& 


Clotrbs  should  be  thoroughly  scalded  (not  boiled)  before  putting  thon& 
in  the  last  rinse  water  if  jou  wish  them  to  look  white  and  clear.  When 
suds  are  allowed  to  remain  in  them-  they  cannot  help  but  look  dingy,  \ 

To  preserve  washtubs,  do  not  put  water  inside  the  tub  when  the  wash- 
ing  is  done,  but  turn  it  bottom  side  up,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  water. 
It  will  be  found  that  it  prevents  the  staves  spreading  apart  at  the  top. 

As  soon  as  the  ironing  is  done  for  the  dAy  the  fiatirons  should  be  taken 
off  the  stove.  To  leave  tUbm  on  without  using,  takes  the  temper  out  of 
them.  '^ 

Ironing  boards  (which  no  one  should  be  without)  may  be  protected 
from  dust  by  taking  two  paper  flour  sacks,  cutting  the  bottom  from  one  and 
pasting  on  the  top  of  the  other  to  form  the  required  length.  Slip  this  ovejr 
the  board  when  putting  away. 

Recipe  for  Bluing. 

One  ounce  of  Prussian  blue ;  one-quarter  ounce  of  oxalic  acid.  Put  in 
a  bottle  and  add  one  gallon  of  rain  water.  ,  Be  sure  the  water  is  very  soft, 
or  the  ingredients  will  not  dissolve  entirely.  This  is  the  cheapest  and  best 
bluing  in  use.  It  can  be  filtered  through  blotting-paper  if  it  leaves  any  sedi- 
ment. 

To  Prevent  the  Iron  from  Stickin0. 

A  spoonful  of  kerosene  oil  put  into  cold  starch  will  prevent  the  iron 
from  sticking. 

Alum  in  Starch. 

For  starching  ginghams  and  calicoes  dissolve  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  o^  . 
a  hickory  uut,  for  each  pint  of  starch  and  add  to  it.    This  will  keep  the 
•olors  bright  for  a  long  time. 

To  Prevent  Lumps  in  Starch. 

To  keep  flour  starch  from  lumping  mix  the  flour  smooth  in  a  little  water, 
then  remove  the  boiling  water  from  the  fire  for  a  minute  before  stirring  in 
the  mixture,  or  it  will  cook  into  lumps  before  it  reaches  the  bottom. 

la  (198) 


I 


I     ■ 

194  LAUNDRY  RECIFEa 

To  Wabh  Flannels. 

The  first  thing  to  consider  in  washing  flannels  so  that  they  retain  their 
size  is,  that  the  article  be  washed  and  rinsed  in  water  of  the  same  tempera- 
ture— ^that  is,  about  as  warm  as  the  bands  can  bear,  and  not  allowed  to  cool 
between*  The  water  should  be  a  strong  suds.  Rub  through  two  soapy 
waters;  wring  them  out  and  put  into  plenty  of  clear,  clean,  warm  water  to 
rinse.  Then  into  another  of  the  same  temperature,  blued  a  little.  Wrings 
shake  them  well,  and  hang  up.  Do  not  take  out  of  this  warm  water  and 
hang  out  in  a  freezing  air,  as  that  certainly  tends  to  shrink  them.  It  is 
better  to  dry  them  in  the  house,  unless  the  sun  shines.  They  should  dry 
quickly.  Colored  flannels  should  never  be  washed  in  the  same  water  after 
white  clothes,  or  they  will  be  covered  with  lint,  when  dry ;  better  be  washed 
in  a  water  for  themselves.  In  washing  worsted,  such  as  merino  dress  goods, 
pursue  the  same  course,  only  do  not  wring  them  hard ;  shake,  hang  them  up 
and  let  drain.  *  While  a  little  damp,  bring  in  and  press  smoothly  on  the 
wrong  side  with  as  hot  an  iron  as  can  be  used  without  scorching  the  goods. 
Flannels  that  have  become  yellow  from  being  badly  washed,  may  be  tticely 
whitened  by  soaking  them  two  or  three  hours  in  a  lather  made  of  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  dissolved  in  five  or  six  gallons  of 
water. 

Javbllb  Water  for  Taking  OtTT  Stains. 

Javlle  water  will  take  out  stains  from  both  linen  and  cotton.  Take 
one. pound  of  sal-soda,  and  five  cents  worth  of  chloride  of  lime ;  put  them  in 
an  earthen  bowl,  and  turn  over  them  two  quarts  of  boiling  hot  soft  water, 
rain  water  is  the  best.  Let  it  settle,  then  pour  ofiF ;  bottle  and  keep  for  use. 
It  will  remove  fruit  stains,  and  even  take  out  indelible  ink  spots.  When 
used,  soak  the  stain  till  it  disappears.    Then  wash  it  in  water. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains. 

Procure  a  two-ounce  bottle,  and  put  into  it  five  cents*  worth  of  oxalic 
acid,  and  fill  it  with  warm  water.  Put  a  linen  rag  over  the  stain,  and  pour 
a  few  drops  of  it  upon  the  cloth.  It  ought  to  take  out  the  stain  at  once ; 
if  not,  rub  it  gently  with  the  dampened  cloth.  If  there  was  logwood  in  the 
ink  it  will,  however,  leave  a  reddish  stain,  but  rub  it  with  a  little  chloride 
of  lime  dissolved  in  water,  and  it  will  disappear,  or  dip  the  spots  in  pure 
melted  tallow ;  wash  out  the  tallow  and  the  ink  will  come  out.  If  articles 
are  rubbed  out  in  cold  water  while  the  stain  is  fresh,  the  stain  wiU  often  ba 
•QtbeUr  MiBoved. 


•y- 


LAUNDRY  RECIPES  195 

To  Extract  Grease  from  Cloth. 

For  removing  grease  from  cloth  the  following  is  infallible:  To  half  a 
pint  of  pure  alcohol  add  ten  grains  of  carbonate  of  potash,  half  an  ounce 
of  oil  of  bergamot,  and  one  ounce  cf  sulphuric  ether;  mix  and  keep  in  a 
glass  stopped  bottle.  Apply  with  a  piece  of  sponget  soaking  the  cloth 
thoroughly  when  the  grease  is  not  recent. 

To  Extract  Grease  Spots  from  Silk. 

Lay  the  grease  spot  upon  a  thick  sheet  of  blotting  or  brown  paper ; 
place  another  piece  of  the  same  paper  over  the  spot,  and  presis  a  moderately 
warm  flatiron  over  it  for  a  minute  or  so,  till  the  stain  disappears.  Rub' the 
stained  part  with  a  bit  of  soft  silk  or  flannel. 

How  TO  Wash  Blankets. 

Make  a  good  suds  with  bar  soap  and  water,  comfortably  warm  to  the 
hand,  and  then  pour  in  spirits  of  ammonia,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  until 
the  suds  smells  strongly  of  the  ammonia,  and  turn  in  two  ounces  of  powdered 
borax  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Shake  all  the  dust  out  of  the  blanketa, 
and  then  rinse  them  up  and  down  and  squeeze  lightly  in  the  hands,  but  do 
not  rub  them  ;  it  is  that  motion  which  fulls  the  wool  and  felts  it  together. 
Do  not  rub  any  soap  upon  them,  but  dip  them  well  in  the  water ;  then  rinse 
in  plain  water,  warm  to  the  hand,  not  hot.  By  folding  the  blankets  length- 
wise in  a  long,  narrow  strip,  they  can  be  drawn  through  a  wringer,  but 
should  never  be  wrung  through  the  hands.  Then  shake  thoroughly  and 
hang  out,  drawing  the  edges  and  corners  smoothly  together.  When 
thoroughly  dry,  fold  smoothly  and  place  the  bosom  board  over,  with  one  or 
two  flatirons  to  hold  it  down,  and  the  next  day  they  will  be  fre^h  and 
sweet.  Select  a  bright,  sunny  day  for  washing  blankets,  and  never  hang 
them  out  in  a  rain  or  a  drizzle. 

I 

To  Wash  Soiled  Ribbons  and  Ties, 

Rub  carefully  through  a  solution  of  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ammonia 
to  one  cupful  of  water.  If  much  soiled  put  through  a  second  water  witb 
less  ammonia.    Lay  between  clean  white  cloths  and  press  until  dtj. 

To  Restore  Vhlvhp. 

When  Telret  gets  crushed  from  pressure,  hold  the  parte  over  a  basin  at 
hot  water,  with  the  lining  of  the  dress  next  the  water.  The  pile  will  sooii 
rise  and  assume  ite  original  beauty. 


196  LAUNDRY  BECIPEa 

•  How  TO  Clean  Velvet. 

Invei-t  a  hot  flatiron,  place  over  it  a  single  thickness  of  wet  cotfcoa 
cloth,  lay  on  this  the  velvet,  wrong  side  next  the  wet  cloth,  rub  gently  with 
a  dry  cloth  until  the  pile  is  well  raised;  take  off  the  iron,  lay  on  a  tablti 
and  brush  with  a  soft  brush  or  cloth. 

To  Take  Out  Mildew. 

Wet  the  cloth  and  rub  on  soap  and  chalk,  mixed  together,  and  lay  in 
the  sun ;  or  lay  the  cloth  in  buttermilk  for  a  short  time,  take  out  and  place 
in  the  hot  sun ;  or  put  lemon  juice  on,  and  treat  in  the  same  way. 

To  Take  Out  Paint, 

Equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  spirits  of  turpentine  will  take  paint  out 
pf  clothing,  no  matter  how  dry  or  hard  it  may  be.  Saturate  the  spot  two 
or  three  times  and  then  wash  out  in  soap-suds. 

To  Take  Out  Machine  Oil*. 

Rub  with  a  little  lard  or  butter  and  wash  in  warm  water  and  soap,  or, 
rimply  rub  first  with  a  little  soap  and  wash  out  in  cold  water. 

To  Take  Out  Scoeoh. 

If  any  article  has  been  scorched  in  ironing,  lay  it  where  bright  sun- 
iUne  will  fall  directly  on  it.  Peel  and  slice  two  onions,  extract  the  juice 
by  pounding  and  squeezing ;  cut  up  a  half  an  ounce  of  fine  white  soap;  and 
add  to  the  juice,  also  two  ounces  of  FuUer^s  earth  and  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar. Boil  all  together.  When  cool  spread  over  the  scorched  linen,  and  let 
dry ;on ;  then  wash  and  boil  oat  the  linen,  and  the  spots  will  disappear  an* 
lees  burned  so  badly  as  to  break  the  threada. 

To  Remove  Ieon  Rum. 

LemoD  jidoe  and  salt  mixed  together  may  be  spread  npon  the  spots  and 
the  article  laid  in  the  sun.  Repeat  the  operation  if  necessary.  Starch  may 
be  spread  on  the  article  instead  of  salt.    When  dry  wash  oat  in  olear  water. 

Tellowbd  LiNEir« 

TtDowed  Unen  that  has  been  laid  away  ean  be  bleached  by  UtUng  ll 
ioak  in  battormllk  two  or  three  dmrs. 


TOILETT  RECIPE& 


To  keep  health  and  beauty,  or  to  restore  it  when  lost,  it  is  necessary  tt 
observe  the  laws  of  health. 

.    Pure  air  and  plenty  of  it,  free  sunshine  and  plenty  of  it,  are  better  re* 
storatives  than  all  the  patent  medicines  under  the  sun. 

One  secret  of  health  is  to  keep  the  feet  dry  and  warm  and  the  head 
cool.  If  the  feet  become  damp,  through  exposure,  they  should  be  bathed  at 
once  in  warm  water  and  rubbed  briskly*  Few  things  are  more  refreshing 
after  a  long  walk  or  getting  wet  feet  than  a  tepid  foot-bath,  clean  stockings 
and  a  pair  of  easy  shoes. 

Thb  Bath. 

The  bath  not  only  promotes  cleanliness,  but  is  a  tonic.  The  skin  does 
one-thircl  of  the  work  of  breathing,  and  if  the  myriad  of  pores  are  closed, 
the  lungs  are  overburdened,  or  else  the  work  is  left  undone.  The  tonic 
effect  is  caused  by  the  contraction  of  the  surface  blood  vessels,  driving  the 
blood  back  to  the  larger  blood  vessels  and  the  heart,  bringing  on  a  reaction 
which  rushes  the  blood  back  to  the  skin,  causing  a  glow,  freer  respiration 
and  more  vigorous  action  of  the  whole  muscular  system.  A  sponge  or  hand 
bath  are  the  simplest  forms,  and  should  be  taken  in  a  moderately  warm 
room.  As  a  rule,  the  more  rapidly  a  bath  is  taken  the  better,  and  it  should 
always  be  followed  by  friction  with  the  hand,  or  with  a  not  too  rough  toweL 

Thb  Cars  of  the  Hair. 

The  hair  should  be  well  brushed  every  day,  and  be  wet  at  the  roots  with 
jtrong  sage  tea.  One  ounce  of  borax  to  every  quart  of  the  tea.  Wet  the 
soalp,  and  then  brush  for  fully  ten  minutes.  This  will  make  harsh,  rough 
hair  smooth  and  glossy,  and  prevent  hair  from  turning  gray.  All  prepara- 
tions for  the  hair  are  more  or  less  injurious.  Healthy  hair  has  enough  oil  of 
its  own,  and  the  application  of  foreign  oil  destroys  its  vitality.  The  only 
time  when  oil  is  admissible  is  after  washing.  (The  best  preparation  is  one 
part  of  glycerine  to  three  of  rose  water.)  Powders  made  of  starch,  wiiea 
wed,  nnst  bt  washed  out  of  Mm  ktair  to  prevent  injury. 


Ids  TOILET  RECIPE& 

Bay  Rum. 

*  • 

Ten  cents  worth  of  magnesia,  two  quarts  each  of  soft  water  and  alM» 
hol»  one  ounce  oil  of  bay.  Dissolve  magnesia  in  rain  water,  then  add  othei 
ingredients.  Wrap  filtering  paper  in  form  of  a  funnel,  and  filter  carefully 
through  into  a  bottle  and  cork  tightly*  When  used,  dilute  with  rain  water 
to  whatever  strength  desired. 

Hatb  Lotion. 

Put  in  a  bottle  two  drachms  of  tincture  of  cantharides,  one  drachm  o| 
aqua  ammonia,  one  ounce  of  glycerine  and  fifteen  ounces  of  rose  water. 
Shake  well  together  and  it  is  ready  for  use.    Apply  with  a  sponge. 

Haib  Wash. 

One  part  of  bay  rum,  three  parts  of  olive  oil,  and  one  part  of  alcohol. 
Shake  well  together,  and  shake  each  time  before  using. — B.  B.  P. 

The  Care  of  the  Hands. 

Wash  the  hands  always  in  warm  water,  and  dp  not  be  sparing  with  the 
brush  or  the  soap.  If,  in  cold  weather,  your  hands  are  liable  to  chap,  keep 
a  small  pot  of  honey,  and  just  before  you  dry  your  hands  dip  in  a  finger  and 
well  rub  the  hands  round  and  round,  give  a  slight  rinse,  and  dry  carefully, 
dust  a  little  oatmeal  on  them  and  rub  off  with  a  dry  to^rel.  One  can  have 
the  hands  in  soapsuds  with  soft  soap  without  injury  to  the  skin  if  the  hands 
are  dipped  in  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  immediately  after.  The  acids  destroy 
the  corfosive  effects  of  tlie  alkali,  and  make  the  hands  soft  and  white.  In- 
di&n-meal  and  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice  used  on  hands  where  roughened  by 
cold  or  labor,  will  heal  and  soften  them.  Rub  the  hands  in  this,  then  wash 
off  thoroughly  and  rub  in  glycerine.  Those  who  suffer  from  chapped  hands 
will  find  this  comforting. 

Mutton  tallow  is  considered  excellent  to  soften  the  hands  and  should 
be  rubbed  on  when  the  hands  are  perfectly  dry. 

Four  parts  of  glycerine  and  five  parts  of  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly 
mixed,  and  applied  after  washing  the  hands,  is  also  considered  excellent,  or 
one  ounce  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  alcohol  mixed,  then  add  eight  ounces 
3f  rose  water. 

Another  good  rule  is  to  rub  well  in  dry  oatmeal  after  every  washing, 
and  be  particular  regarding  the  quality  of  soap.  Cheap  soap  and  hard  water 
are  the  cause  of  rough  skin  and  chapped  hands.  Castile  soap  and  rain  wmt«v 
will  sometimes  cure  without  any  other  assistance. 


Balm  of  Beauty. 

Equal  parts  of  cocoanut  oil,  wliito  wax,  and  glycerine,  with  one  drop 
or  two  of  attar  of  roses,  make  a  most  delightful  "  balm  of  beauty,"  and  i? 
splendid  for  chapped  hands  and  face.  It  will  also  smooth  out  the  wrinkles 
if  applied  nightly  during  tlio  winter  weather. 

To  Make  Cold  Cbbam. 

Heat  gently  togetlier  four  parts  of  olive  oil  and  one  part  of  white  wax, 
two  ounces  of  pure  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  one-half  ounce  of  pure  glycerine, 
and  six  drops  of  oil  of  roses.  Melt  the  first  four  i.^gredients  together  in  a 
sliallow  dish  over  hot  water.  As  it  begins  to  cool,  add  the  glycerine  and  oil 
of  roses.  Strain  through  muslin.  Beat  with  a  silver  spoon  until  snowy 
white.  It  is  excellent  for  chapped  face  and  hands,  and  makes  the  skin  fine 
and  soft 

Camphor  Ice. 

One  ounce  of  lard,  one  ounce  of  camphor,  one  ounce  of  spermaceti, 
one  ounce  of  almond  oil,  one- half  cake  of  white  wax;  melt  and  turn  into 
moulds.    Excellent  for  chapped  lips  or  hands. 

Oatmeal  Wash. 

Let  one  pound  of  fine  meal  stand  in  three  pints  of  cold  water  for  twelve 
hoars,  then  put  it  in  a  thin  bag  to  drip.  To  the  distilled  liquid  add  one 
ounce  of  glycerine  and  one  gill  of  alcohol.  This  is  a  pleasant  wash  for  the 
£BM3e  and  handS|  making  the  skin  soft  as  velvet. 

Teeth. 

Cracking  nuts,  biting  thread,  eating  hot  food,  especially  bread  and 
pastry  raised  with  soda,  very  cold  drinks,  alternate  contact  with  cold  and 
hot  substances,  highly  seasoned  food,  alcoholic  liquors  and  tobacco,  metal 
toothpicks,  and  want  of  cleanliness,  are  injurious  to  the  teeth.  After  eating, 
the  mouth  should  be  rinsed  with  lukewarm  water,  and  such  pieces  of  food 
as  are  not  thus  washed  away  removed  by  a  quill  toothpick.  Tooth  brushes 
should  bo  elastic,  and  moderately  hard.  Those  with  hairs  not  too  dose  to 
fether  are  best  and  most  durable.  A  brush  that  is  too  hard  may  be  per- 
manently softened  by  dipping  in  hot  water.  Bub  up  and  down  as  well  as 
serosa  the  teeth.    Teeth  should  de  often  examined  by  a  competent  dentists 


2G0  TOILET  BECIPE& 

Thb  Ear. 

■ 

The  outer  ear  should  be  well  cleansed  f.nd  tLe  passage  wiped  out  daily 
with  a  rag  on  the  end  of  the  little  finger,  but  nothing  should  be  inserted 
further.  The  insertion  of  a  pin,  or  any  hard  substance,  frequently  ruptures 
the  ear.  When  cleansing  is  necessary  on  account  of  'accumulation  of  wax 
by  cold,  or  other  cause,  it  should  be  done  by  syringing  with  warm  water, 
having  dropped  in  two  or  three  drops  of  glycerine  the  night  before  to  soften 
the  substance  to  be  removed.  This  often  cures  sudden  deafness.  Cotton* 
wool  stuffed  into  the  ear  is  injurious  and  is  seldom  necessary.  In  conversing 
with  deaf  persons,  it  is  important  to  remember  that  clearness,  distinctness, 
and  a  musical  tone  of  voice  is  understood  much  more  easily  than  a  loud 
tone. 

The  Face. 

To  wash  properly,  fill  basin  two-thirds  full  with  fresh,  soft  water,  dii* 
face  in  the  water  and  then  the  hands ;  soap  the  hands  well  and  rub  with  a 
gentle  friction  over  the  face ;  dip  the  face  in  water  the  second  time  and 
rinse  off  thoroughly^ wiping  with  a  thick  but  soft  towel.  Pure  soaps  do  not 
irritate  the  skin.  The  best  are  castile,  glycerine  and  other  neutral  soaps. 
Medicated  or  highly  colored  or  perfumed  soaps  should  never  be  used. 

To  Remove  Freckles. 

Stir  a  tablespoonful  of  freshly  grated  horse-radish  into  a  cupful  of  sour 
milk;  let  it  stand  for  twelve  hours,  then  strain  and  apply  often.  This 
bleaches  the  complexion  also,  and  takes  off  tan. 

To  Keep  the  Skin  Nice. 

Never  bathe  in  hard  water ;  soften  it  with  a  few  drops  of  ammonia  or  a 
little  borax. 
'     Don't  bathe  your  face  while  it  is  very  warm,  and  never  use  very  cold 
water  for  it. 

When  you  are  traveling,  wash  ad  little  as  possible,  and  then  with  a  little 
alcohol  and  water. 

Don't  attempt  to  remove  dust  with  cold  water ;  give  your  face  a  hot 
bath,  using  plenty  of  good  soap ;  then  give  it  a  thorough  rinsing  with  water 
that  has  the  chill  taken  off  it. 

Flesh  Worms. 

"  Black  heads  '^  on  the  nose  disfigure  the  face.  Remove  by  washing 
thoroughly  in  tepid  water,  rubbing  with  a  towel,  and  applying  with  a  sofk 


TOILET  RfiClPES.  SOI 

flannel  a  wash  made  of  three  ounces  of  cologne  and  half  an  on^^ce  of  liquor 
of  potash ;  or  place  over  the  black  spot  the  hollow  end  of  a  watch-key,  and 
press  firmlj.  This  forces  the  foreign  substance  out,  so  that  it  may  be  brushed 
off,  and  is  a  cure. 

Thb  Fbbt. 

The  largest  pores  of  the  body  are  located  in  the  bottom  of  the  feeti 
For  this  reason  feet  should  be  frequently  and  thoroughly  washed,  and  the 
stockings  changed  often.  If  great  cleanliness  is  not  observed,  these  great 
pores  become  absorbent,  and  the  poisons  given  off  are  taken  back  into  the 
system.  The  nails  ought  to  be  cut  squarely.  Blisters  may  be  prevented  by 
rubbing  the  feet  after  washing  with  glycerine. 

•  Ingrowing  Nails.  " 

Cut  a  notch  in  the  center  of  the  nail,  or  scrape  it  thin  in  the  middle. 
Put  a  small  piece  of  tallow  in  a  spoon  and  heat  it  over  a  lamp  until  it  be- 
, comes  very  hot.  Drop  two  or  three  drops  between  the  nail  and  granulation. 
The  pain  and  tenderness  will  soon  be  relieved,  and  in  a  few  days  the 
granulation  will  be  gone.  One  or  two  applications  will  cure  the  most  ob*^ 
stinate  case. 

A  Positive  Curb  for  Corns. 

The  strongest  acetic  acid,  applied  night  and  morning  with  a  camel's 
hair  brush.    In  one  week  the  corn,  whether  soft  or  hard,  will  disappear. 

Soft  Corns. 

« 

Soft  corns  between  the  toes  may  be  cured  by  a  weak  solution  of  carbolio 
acid.  Half  a  cranberry  or  a  piece  of  lemon  bound  on  the  corn  will  soon 
kill  it. 

Chilblains. 

Mix  one  ounce  of  sulphurous  acid,  one  ounce  of  glycerine,  and  two 
ounces  of  distilled  water,  and  apply  night  and  morning.  An  onion  cut  in 
two  and  bound  upon  the  sore  spot  will  effect  a  sure  cure.  Another  remedy 
is  to  hold  the  foot  with  the  sock  on,  as  near  the  fire  as  can  be  borne,  with- 
drawing it  when  too  hot,  and  returning  it  again  to  the  iSre  for  five  or  ten 
minutes. 

Bad  Brbath. 

Nothing  makes  one  so  disagreeable  to  others  as  a  bad  breath.  It  ih 
Mused  by  bad  teeth,  diseased  stomAch,  or  disease  of*  the  nostrils.    Neatnes£< 


fiOa  tOILEt  RECIPES. 

and  care  of  the  health  will  prevent  and  cure  it.  It  may  be  temporarily  rA* 
lieved  by  dilating  a  little  bromo  chloralum  with  eight  or  ten  parts  of  water, 
and  using  it  as  a  gargle*  and  swallowing  a  few  drops  before  going  out.  A 
pint  of  bromo  chloralum  costs  fifty  cents  but  a  small  viol  will  last  a  long 
time* 

To  Clean  Bbushes. 

The  best  way  in  which  to  clean  hairbrushes  is  with  spirits  of  ammoniar 
as  its  effect  is  immediate.  No  rubbing  is  required,  and  cold  water  can  be 
used  just  as  successfully  as  warm.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  a 
quart  of  water,  dip  the  hair  part  of  the  brush  without  wetting  the  ivory, 
and  in  a  moment  the  gprease  is  removed;  then  rinse  in  cold  water,  shake 
well,  and  dry  in  the  air,  but  not  in  the  sun.  Soda  and  soap  soften  the 
bristles  and  invariably  turn  the  ivory  yellow. 

Cleaning  Gloves. 

•  •  •  • 

Take  one  quart  of  deodorized  benzine,  one  drachm  of  sulphuric  ether, 
one  drachm  of  chloroform,  and  two  drachms  of  alcohol.  Cologne  water  can 
be  added  if  desired.  Pour  a  little  of  this  in  a  clean  bowl,  and  wash  the 
gloves  in  it  as  you  would  Wash  anything.  After  the  dirt  is  nearly  out,  rinse 
in  more  of  the  clean  fluid.  Usually  one  rinsing  is  enough,  but  if  the  gloves  are 
very  much  soiled,  rinse'  the  second  time.  If  the  gloves  are  of  cheap  kid  it  is 
best  to  dry  them  on  the  hands,  but  a  nice  glove,  after  having  been  rubbed 
with  a  soft  cloth  to  smooth  out  the  wrinkles,  may  be  hung  on  a  line  to  dry. 
This  preparation  is  an  excellent  thing  to  keep  in  the  house,  not  only  for 
cleaning  gloves,  but  for  taking  out  grease  spots  from  carpets  and  clothing, 
and  for  sponging  coat  collars  and  felt  hats. 

To  Cleanse  a  Sponge. 

.  By  rubbing  a  fresh  lemon  thoroughly  into  a  soured  sponge  and  rinsing 
it  several  times  in  lukewarm  water,  it  will  become  as  sweet  as  when  new. 

Castor  Oil  for  Shoes. 

Take  a  teaspoonfuU  of  it  and  rub  it  thoroughly  by  a  fire.  Do  this  when 
the  shoes  are  new,  and  several  times  afterwards,  and  they  will  last  twice  ae 
kmg. 


i 


i 


MAHKETING. 


Few  housekeepers  understand  how  to  select  meats  wisely  or  how  to  > 
buy  economically,  yet  a  moderate  amount  of  experience  and  a  little  knowl- 
edge of  facts  will  enable  everyone  to  buy  both  intelligently  and  economically. 
Whenever  possible  pay  cash,  for  tlien  you  can  command  the  best  in  the 
market  and  the  lowest  prices.  Meat  should  always  be  wiped  with  a  dry, 
clean  towel  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  market  and  placed  by  the  side  of, 
not  on,  ice.  Powdered  charcoal  is  excellent  to  keep  meat  from  tainting,  or 
pepper  sprinkled  over  it  is  also  good  and  can  easily  be  washed  off  when  ready 
for  cooking. 

In  Buying  Beef^  select  that  which  Is  of  a  clear  cherry -red  color  after  a. 
fresh  cut  has  been  for  a  few  moments  exposed  to  the  air.  The  fat  should  be 
of  a  light  straw  color,  and  the  meat  marbled  throughout  with  fat.  Inferior 
meat  from  old  or  ill-fed  animals  has  a  coarse,  skinny  fat  and  a  dark  red  lean. 
Ox-beef  is  the  sweetest  and  most  juicy,  and  the  most  economical.  When 
meat  pressed  by  the  finger  rises  up  quickly,  it  is  prime,  but  if  the  dent  dis- 
appears slowly,  or  remains,  it  is  inferior  in  quality.  Any  greenish  tints 
about  either  fat  or  lean,  or  slipperiness  of  surface,  indicates  that  the  meat 
has  been  kept  so  long  that  putrefiiction  has  begun,  consequently,  is  unfit  for  ' 
use,  except  by  those  persons  who  prefer  what  is  known  as  a  *'  high  flavor.'* 
Tastes  differ  as  to  the  choice  cuts  and  butchers  cut  meat  differently.  The 
small  porterhouse  steaks  are  the  most  economical,  but  in  large  steaks,  the 
coarse  and  tough  parts  may  be  used  for  soup,  or,  after  cooking,  for  hash.  A 
round  steak,  when  the  leg  is  not  cut  down  too  far,  is  sweet  and  juicy,  the  ob- 
jaction  being  its  toughness,  to  cancel  which  it  may  be  chopped  fine,  seasoned, 
and  made  into  breakfast  croquettes.  There  is  no  waste  in  it,  and  hence  it  is 
the  most  economical  to  buy.  The  interior  portion  of  the  round  is  the  tender- 
est  and  best.  Porterhouse  is  cheaper  than  sirloin,  having  less  bone.  Rump 
steak  and  round,  if  well  pounded  to  make  them  tender,  have  the  least. 
For  corned  beef,  the  round  is  also  the  best.  The  roasting  pieces  are  the 
sirloin  and  the  ribs,  the  latter  boing  most  economical  at  the  family  table,  the 
bones  forming  an  excellent  basis  for  soup,  and  the  meat,  when  boned  and 
rolled  up  (which  should  be  done  by  the  butcher),  and  roasted,  being  in  good 

1  C203) 


m 


MAfiKETrnfi. 


form  for  the  carver,  as  it  enables  him  to  distribute  equally  the  upper  part 
with  the  fatter  and  more  skinny  portions.  A  roast  served  in  this  way,  if 
cooked  rare,  may  be  cooked  a  second  or  even  a  third  time.  The  best  beef 
roast  is  (for  three)  about  two  and  a  half  or  three  pounds  of  porterhouse. 
Two  or  three  pounds  is  a  plenty  for  three.  There  are  roasts  and  other  meats 
equally  good  in  the  fore  quarter  of  beef,  but  the  projiortion-of  bone  to  meat 
is  greater. 

Veal  is  best  from  calves  not  less  than  four  nor  more  than  six  weeks  old. 
The  meat  should  be  clear  and  firm,  and  the  fat  white.  If  dark  and  thin, 
with,  tissues  hanging  loosely  about  the  bone,  it  is  not  good.  Veal  will  not 
keep  so  long  as  an  older  meat,  especially  in  hot  or  damp  weather.  The  hind 
'  quarter  is  the  choicest  joint.  From  the  leg  is  cut  the  ^*  fillet "  and  **  veal 
cutlets.'*  The  ''knuckle  of  veal*'  is  the  part  left  after  the  ''fillets"  and 
"  cutlets  **  are  removed.  Many  prefer  the  "  breast  of  veal "  for  roasting, 
stewing,  pies,  etc.  It  may  be  boned  so  as  to  roll,  or  a  large  hole  may  be  cut 
in  it  to  make  room  for  the  stuffing.    Veal  should  be  avoided  in  summer. 

Mutton  should  be  fat,  and  the  fat  clear,  hard  and  white.  Beware  of 
buying  mutton  with  flabby,  lean  and  yellow  fat.  An  abundance  of  fat  is  a 
source  of  waste,  but  as  the  lean  part  of  fat  mutton  is  much  more  juicy  and 
tender  than  any  other,  it  should  be  chosen.  The  longer  mutton  is  hung  be- 
fore being  cooked,  provided  it  does  not  become  tainted,  the  better  it  is. 
The  lean  of  mutton  is  quite  different  f^om  that  of  beef.  While  beef  is  a 
bright  carnation,  mutton  is  a  deep,  dark  red.  The  hind  quarter  of  mutton 
is  beat  for  roasting.  The  ribs  may  be  used  for  chops,  and  are  the  sweeter ; 
but  the  leg  chops  are  the  most  economical,  as  there  is  much  less  bone,  and 
no  hard  meat,  as  on  the  ribs.  For  mutton  roast,  choose  the  shoulder,  the 
saddle,  or  the  loin  or  haunch.  The  leg  should  be  boiled.  Small  rib  chops 
are  best  for  broiling ;  those  cut  out  from  the  leg  are  generally  tough.  Mutton 
outlets  to  bake  are  taken  from  the  neck.  Almost  any  part  will  do  for  broth. 
'«  Tongiu. — Calf  s  tongue  is  considered  best,  but  it  is  usually  sold  with  the 
liead ;  beeve's  tongues  are  what  is  referred  to  generally  when  "  tongue  '*  iK 
ipoken  of.  Lamb's  tongues  are  very  nice.  In  purchasing  tongues,  choose 
those  which  are  thick,  firm^  and  have  plenty  of  fat  on  the  under  side. 

To  Select  Hams, — The  best  hams,  whether  corned  or  cured  and  smoked, 
are  those  from  eight  to  fifteen  pounds  in  weight,  having  a  thin  skin,  solid 
fat,  and  a  small,  short,  tapering  leg  or  shank.  In  selecting  them,  run  a  knife 
along  the  bone  on  the  fleshy  side ;  if  it  comes  out  clean  the  ham  is  good,  but 
if  the  knife  is  smeared  it  is  spoiled. 

Pork, — Great  care  must  be  taken  in  selecting  pork.  If  ill-fed  or  dis- 
Msed,  no  meat  is  more  injurious  to  the  health.    The  leaa  must  be 


MARKETING. 


206 


grained,  and  both  fat  and  lean  very  white.  The  rind  should  be  smooi^h  and 
cool  to  the  touch.  If  clammy,  be  sure  the  pork  is  stale,  and  reject  it.  If 
the  fat  is  fuil  of  small  kernels,  it  is  an  indication  of  diseiise.  In  good  bacon 
the  rind  is  thin,  the  fat  firm,  and  the  lean  tender.  Rusty  bacon  has  yellow 
streaks  in  it.  Fresh  pork  should  seldom  be  eaten,  and  never  except  in  the 
fall  and  winter. 

Lamb  is  good  a«  a  year  old,  and  more  digestible  than  most  immature 
meats.  *^  Spring  Lamb '^  is  prized  because  unseasonable.  It  is  much  in* 
ferior  to  the  best  mutton.  The  meat  should  be  light  red  and  fat.  If  not 
too  warm  weatlier,  it  ought  to  bo  kept  a  day  or  two  before  cooking,  but  it 
does  not  keep  well.  It  is  stringy  and  indigestible  if  cooked  too  soon  after 
killing. 

Ohickens^  when  fresh,  are  known  by  full,  bright  eyes,  pliable  feet,  and 
soft,  moist  skin.  Young  fowls  have  a  tender  skin,  smooth  legs  and  comb, 
and  the  best  have  yellow  legs.  In  old  fowls,  the  legs  are  rough  and  hard. 
The  top  of  the  breast-bone  of  a  young  fowl  is  soft,  and  may  be  easily  bent 
with  the  fingers ;  and  the  feet  and  neck  are  large  in  proportion  to  the  body. 
Fowls  are  always  in  season. 

Fisn. 

When  fresh,  the  eyes  of  fish  are  full  and  bright,  and  the  gills  a  fin« 
clear  red,  the  body  stiff  and  the  smell  not  unpleasant.  The  flavor  and  ex- 
cellence of  salmon  depends  entirely  on  its  freshness.  Lobsters,  when  freshly 
caught,  have  some  muscular  action  in  their  claws  which  may  be  excited  by 
pressing  the  eyes.  The  heaviest  lobsters  as  the  best.  The  male  is  thought 
to  have  the  highest  flavor,  the  flesh  is  firmer,  and  the  shell  has  a  brighter 
red,  and  is  considered  best  during  the  fall  and  spring.  The  females  are 
prepared  for  sauces  on  account  of  their  coral,  and  are  preferred  during  the 
summer,  especially  in  June  and  July.  The  head  is  used  in  garnishing,  by 
twisting  it  off  after  the  lobster  has  been  boiled  and  become  cold.  Lobsters 
ranging  from  four  pounds  are  most  delicate.  If  crabs  are  fresh,  the  eyes  are 
briglit,  the  joints  of  the  legs  are  stiff,  and  the  inside  has  an  agreeable  smell 
The  heaviest  are  the  best,  the  light  ones  being  watery.  Soft-shell  clams  are 
good  only  in  cold  weather,  and  should  be  fresh.  Oysters,  if  alive  and 
healthy,  close  tight  upon  the  knife.  They  are  in  season  from  September  to 
May. 

Vegetables. 

All  vegetables  snap  crisply  when  fresh ;  if  the}*^  bend  and  present  a 
wilted  appearance,  they  are  stale.  If  wilted,  they  can  be  partly  restored  by 
being  sprinkled  with  water,  and  laid  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 


Tumip$  are  not  natritions,  being  ninetj  per  cent,  water,  but  an  «xod« 
lent  food  fur  those  who  are  disposed  to  eat  too  much,  as  they  correct  consti- 
pation. 

TomatoeM  are  generally  regarded  as  wholesome.  The  mediam-aixed 
amooth  ones  are  best. 

Cauliflaweri  are  best  when  large,  solid  and  creamy.  When  stale  the 
leaves  are  wilted  and  show  dark  spots. 

Celery  stalks  should  be  white,  solid  and  clean.  Celery  begins  in  August, 
but  it  is  better  and  sweeter  after  frost. 

Eggplant  should  be  firm  but  not  ripe.  The  large  purple  oval-shaped 
kind  I  is  best. 

Muihrooms  are  dangerous  things  for  the  inexperienced  to  buy,  and 
should  be  let  alone. 

Pease  should  be  bought  in  pods  and  should  feel  cool  and  dry.  If  pods 
are  rusty  or  spotted,  they  are  too  old  to  be  good. 

Potaloee. — Select  those  of  medium  size,  smooth,  with  small  eyes.  To 
test,  cut  off  a  piece  of  the  large  end ;  if  spotted,  they  are  unsound.  In  the 
spring,  when  potatoes  are  beginning  to  sprout,  it  is  best  to  first  rub  them 
o£^  as  this  take  the  starch  from  the  potatoes. 

GnOCEBIES. 

Cheese  which  ^  feels  soft  between  the  fingers  is  richest  and  best  and 
should  be  kept  in  a  box  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Vinegar  made  from  cider  is  best. 

Com  meal  does  not  keep  well  and  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities. 
«»Com  is  a  heat  producer  and  is  a  useful  winter  diet. 

Sard  Soap  should  be  bought  in  large  quantity,  and  laid  to  harden  in 
bars  piled  on  each  other.  Haid  soap  is  more  economical  than  soft,  as  it  is 
not  ao  easily  wasted. 

Lard. — The  best  lard  is  made  from  leaf  fat  which  adheres  to  the  ribs 
and  belly  of  the  hog.  This  is  known  as  leaf  lard.  Good  lard  should  be 
white,  solid,  and  have  not  an  unpleasant  stnell. 

Flour  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  and  the  best  is  cheapest. 
Flour  b  peculiarly  sensitive  to  atmospheric  influence,  hence  it  should  never 
be.  stored  in  a  room  with  sour  liquids  nor  where  onions  or  fish  are  kept. 
Any  smell  perceptible  to  the  sense  will  be  absorbed  by  flour.  Xeep  in  a 
cool,  dry,  airy  room,  and  not  exposed  to  a  freezing  temperature  nor  to  in* 
tense  summer  or  to  artificial  heat.  Flour  should  be  sifted  and  the  partieles 
tborougUy  disintegrated,  and  then  warmed  before  baking. 


FOODS  AND  THEIR  SEASONS; 


Apples  are  in  season  all  the  year ;  cheapest  from  August  until  sprinf^ 

Asparagus  from  the  first  of  May  uutil  middle  of  June. 

Bass,  of  wliich  there  are  a  dozen  varieties,  at  all  times  of  the  year.  ' 

Beans,  string,  June  to  November;    Lima,  from  July  throughout  the 
year. 

Beef  is  good  at  all  seasons  of  the  year. 

Beets  from  June  through  the  year. 

Blue  fish,  a  popular  fish  on  the  seacoast,  from  June  to  September* 

Broccoli,  a  kind  of  cabbage,  from  September  to  November. 

Buckwheat  cakes  in  cold  weather. 

Butternuts  ripen  in  September. 

Cabbage;  May  and  June,  and  lasts  through  the  winter. 

Carrots  from  the  South,  in  May,  and  last  until  November. 

Caulidower  from  June  until  spring. 

Celery  from  August  to  April,  but  it  b  better  after  being  touched  by 
frost. 

Cheese  all  the  year  round. 

Chestnuts  after  the  firat  severe  frost. 

Chocolate  is  best  in  cold  weather  on  account  of  its  richness. 

Ckub,  a  fresh  water  fish,  in  fall  and  winter. 

C^ams  from  May  until  September. 

Conger  eels  from  November  to  April.  ^     \ 

Crabs  from  June  to  January,  but  are  moxv.^  wholaso^o  in  the  ooM 
months. 

Cranberries  from  September  to  April. 

Currants,  green,  June  to  July;  ripe,  July  to  Aujfust. 

Damsons,  a  small  black  plum,  July  to  December. 

Doves,  the  turtle,  one  of  the  best  game  birds,  in  August  i^.'^u  C^ptember. 

Ducks,  domestic,  are  best  in  June  and  July.     Wild  in  spring  cud  falL 

Eels  from  April  till  November. 

Kggs  are  always  in  season,  but  are  cheap  in  spring,  and  high  in  winter. 

Wishf  as  a  rule,  are  in  best  condition  just  before  spawning. 

(2073 


FOOD  AND  THEIR  SEASONS. 

Ooese,  wild,  from  October  to  December ;  tame,  at  four  months  old. 

Guinea  fowl,  best  in  winter  when  thej  take.the  place  of  partridges. 

Haddock  from  November  till  December,  and  June  and  July. 

Halibut  in  season  all  the  year. 

Herring  from  February  to  May. 

Herbs  for  seasoning  should  be  gathered  just  as  they  begin  to  flower* 

Horse-radish  is  always  in  season. 

Lamb  in  March,  but  from  June  to  August  is  best  as  well  as  cheapest. 

Lemons  arrive  fresh  from  the  West  Indies  in  winter. 

Lobsters  are  plentiful  in  market,  except  in  winter  months. 

Mackerel  from  May  through  the  summer. 

Mushrooms  are  most  plentiful  in  August  and  September. 

Mutton  is  in  season  all  the  year,  but  is  not  so  good  in  the  fall,  the  meat 
being  drier  and  strong  flavored. 

.Oranges  from  Florida  and  West  Indies  are  in  market  from  October  until 
April ;  those  from  the  Mediterranean  from  January  until  May.  The  Florida 
#imnges  are  best  and  largest. 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May ;  May,  June  and  July 
being  the  spawning  months. 

Partridges,  pheasants  or  rufifed  grouse,  are  in  season  in  most  markets 
from  September  to  January,  but  are  best  in  October  and  November. 

Pickerel  is  best  from  September  to  March. 

Pigeons,  wild,  are  plentiful  in  September  and  October. 

Pork  should  never  be  eaten  in  warm  weather. 

Potatoes,  new,  arrive  from  the  Bermudas  about  April ;  from  the  South 
June  to  July,  and  are  plentiful  in  July  and  August. 

Potatoes,  sweet,  are  io  season  from  August  to  December,  after  which 
they  lose  their  flavor. 

Prairie  chickens  in  season' from  August  to  October. 

Prunes  arrive  fresh  from  December  to  May. 

Pumpkins  are  in  season  from  September  to  January. 

Quail  (often  called  partridge  in  the  South)  from  November  and  Decem- 
btr. 

Babbite  are  in  best  condition  in  November,  but  are  in  season  from  Sep- 
tember till  Jaixuary«  and  in  the  North  later,  until  the  breeding  season  beginp. 

Reed  birds  are  best  in  September  and  October. 

Rhubarb  from  April  to  September. 

Salmon  from  March  till  September. 

Ibad  appear  in  market  from  February  80  to  Jom* 
ar9  abundant  from  October  to  ApriL 


FOOD  AND  THEIR  SEASONS.  209 

Spinach  is  the  earliest  vegetable  used  for  greens,  and  b  continued 
through  the  season  by  providing  a  succession  of  crops. 

Sturgeon  from  April  to  September. 

Suckers  from  October  to  April. 

Trout,  brook,  are  in  season  from  March  till  August ;  lake  trout  from 
Ootober  to  March.     Mackinaw  trout  in  winter  mouths. 

Turkeys  are  best  in  fall  and  winter,  though  in  market  at  all  seasons. 

Turtles  are  in  market  from  May  to  winter. 

Veal  is  in  season  except  in  hot  weather,  when  it  keeps  badly. 

Venison  from  the  buck  is  best  from  August  to  November,  from  the  doei 
from  November  to  January. 

Woodoook  is  in  season  from  July  to  November,  but  is  best  in  October. 
U 


»    ' 


TABLE  SETTma 


Ik  every  house,  great  or  small,  the  dining-room  should  be  as  bright^ 
and  cheerful  as  possible.  The  plainest  room  may  be  made  beautiful  by 
taste,  and  the  homeliest  fare  appetizing  by  neatness  and  skill. 

The  mistress  of  the  house  may  be  troubled  about  many  things,  but  she 
should  wear  her  pleasaniest  smiles  at  the  table,  that  her  husband  and  chil- 
dren may  be  refreshed  in  spirit  as.  well  as  in  body.  The  conversation  should 
be  bright  and  cherry.  The  children  can  be  taught  very  young  many 
lessons  of  etiquette  that  will  serve  them  in  after  years.  These  lessons  will 
be  an  education  to  them  in  mind  and  manners,  and  the  influence  thus  felt 
does  not  cease  when  the  home,  is  broken  up. 

The  advisability  of  making  dishes  attractive  by  dainty  serving,  is  not 
enough  appreciated  by  the  busy  housewife.  It  seems  so  much  easier  to  dish 
the  meat  and  vegetables  ^^  anyhow,*'  than  to  use  the  extra  exertion  to  make 
them  pretty,  that  she  is  apt  to  grow  careless.  Habit  is  everything  in  such 
matters.  The  practice  once  acquired  of  arranging  the  food  to  please  the 
eye,  as  well  as  the  .palatOt  the  added  labor  is  taken  for  granted  and  seldom 
observed. 

•  The  ornamenting  or  final  finish  of  the  table  should  not  be  left  to  the 
servants ;  this  most  important  step  should  devolve  upon  the  hostess  herself. 

Nothing  imparts  such  an  inviting  appearance  to  a  table  as  (lowers ;  a 
center  piece  of  flowers  of  a  rare  or  delicate  variety,  is  most  attractive.  Grow- 
ing plants  in  bloom  are  also  desirable  for  center  pieces.  In  laying  the  table 
for  dinner  all  the  linen  should  be  a  spotless  white  throughout,  and  undei** 
neath  the  linen  tablecloth  should  be  spread  one  of  thick  cotton-flannel  or 
baize,  which  gives  the  linen  a  heavier  and  finer  appearance,  also  deadening 
the  sound  ot  moving  dishes.  Large  and  neatly  folded  napkins  (ironed  with- 
out starch),  with  pieces  of  bread  three  or  four  inches  long,  or  a  cold  roll 
placed  between  the  folds,  but  not  to  completely  conceal  it,  are  lain  on  e&ch 
plate.  Beside  each  plate  are  placed  as  many  knives,  forks  and  spoons  aa 
will  be  needed  in  all  the  courses  (unless  the  lady  prefers  to  have  them 
brought  with  each  new  plate,  which  makes  more  work  and  confusion)^  and 
a  glass,  to  be  filled  with  fresh  water  just  before  dinner  is  announced. 
C210> 


TABLE  SETTING.  -  211 

Dishes  that  need  to  be  warm,  not  hot,  are  left  on  the  top  shelf  of  the 
range  or  elsewhere,  where  they  will  be  kept  warm  until  needed. 

Soup  and  fish  being  the  fii-st  course,  plates  of  soup  are  usually  placed 
on  the  table  before  the  dinner  is  announced  ;  or,  if  the  hostess  wishes,  the 
soup  may  be  served  at  the  table ;  the  soup  tureen  (with  the  soup  at  the 
boiling  point)  und  the  soup  plates  should  be  placed  before  the  seat  of  the 
hostess  before  dinner  is  quietly  announced. 

The  host  leads  the  way  to  the  dining  room,  the  hostess  being  last  The 
guests  of  course  remain  standing  until  the  hostess  is  seated.  The  hostess 
serves  only  tlie  soup,  salad  and  dessert.  As  a  rule  the  lady  at  the  right  of  ' 
the  host,  or  the  oldest  lady,  should  be  served  first.  As  soon  as  any  one  has 
finished,  his  plate  is  promptly  removed,  but  the  next  course,  however, 
should  not  be  served  until  all  have  finished. 

Jellies  and  sauces,  when  not  to  be  eaten  as  a  dessert,  should  be  helped 
on  the  dinner  phite,  not  on  a  small  side  dish  ns  was  the  former  usage. 

If  a  dish  be  on  the  table,  some  parts  of  which  are  preferred  to  others, 
according  to  the  taste  of  the  individuals,  all  should  have  the  opportunity  of 
choice.  The  host  will  simply  ask  each  one  if  he  has  any  preference  for  a 
particular  part;  if  he  replies  in  the  negative,  you  are  not  to  repeat  the 
question,  nor  insist  that  he  must  have  a  preference. 

Do  not  attempt  to  eulogize  your  dishes,  or  apologize  that  your  cannot 
recommend  them — this  is  extremely  bad  taste. 

Do  not  insist  upon  your  guests  partaking  of  particular  dishes.  Do  not 
ask  persons  more  than  once,  and  never  force  a  supply  upon  their  plates.  It 
is  ill-bred,  though  common,  to  press  any  one  to  eat ;  and  moreover,  it  is  a 
great  annoyance  to  many. 

Finely  sifted  sugar  should  always  be  placed  upon  the  table  to  be  used 
with  puddings,  pies,  fruit,  etc.,  and  if  cream  is  required,  let  it  stand  by  the 
dish  it  is  to  be  served  with. 

The  crumb-brush  is  not  used,  until  the  preparation  for  brining  In  tke 
dessert;  then  all  the  glasses  are  removed,  except  the  flowers,  the  wat«tr- 
tomblers,  and  the  glass  of  wine  which  the  guest  wishes  to  retain  with  hil 
dessert.  The  dessert  plate  containing  the  finger-bowl,  also  a  dessert  knllt 
and  fork,  should  then  be  set  before  each  guest,  who  at  once  removed  thtr 
tiuger-bowl  and  its  doily,  and  the  knife  and  fork  to  the  table,  leaving  the 
plate  ready  to  be  used  for  any  dessert  chosen. 

Coffee  and  tea  are  served  lastly^  poured  into  tiny  cups  and  served  clear, 
passed  around  on  a  tray  to  each  guest,  then  the  sugar  and  cream  passed, 
that  each  person  may  be  allowed  to  season  his  black  coffee  or  ec{fi  noir  to 
euit  himself.    The  hostess  gives  the  signal  that  dinner  is  ended  by  pushing 


212 


TABLE  SETTING. 


back  her  chair,  and  the  ladies  repair  to  the  drawings-room,  the  oldest  leading 
and  the  youngest  following  last,  and  the  gentlemen  repairing  to  the  library 
or  smoking-room.  In  about  half  an  hour,  tea  is  served  in  the  drawing-room 
with  a  cake -basket  of  crackers  or  little  cakes,  the  gentlemen  join  the  ladiesi 
and  after  a  little  chat  over  their  cups,  all  are  at  liberty  to  take  leave. 

A  family  dinner^  even  with  a  few  friends,  can  be  made  quite  attractive 
and  satisfactory  without  much  display  or  expense;  consisting  first  of  good 
soup,  then  fish  garnished  with  suitable  additions,  followed  by  a  roast ;  then 
vegetables  and  some  made  dishes,  a  salad,  crackers,  cheese  and  olives,  then 
dissert.  This  sensible  meal,  well-cooked  and  neatly  served,  is  pleasing  to 
almost  any  one,  and  b  within  the  means  of  any  housekeeper  in  ordinary 
eiroamstanoee. 


r 


TABLE  EHQUEITR 


.The  source  of  all  good  manners  is  a  nice  perception  of,  and  kind  con* 
dideration  for,  not  only  the  rights,  but  the  feelings  of  others.  The  customs 
of  society  are  adopted  and  observed  to  enable  us  to  be  more  agreeable.  And 
nowhere  is  the  distinction  between  the  gentleman  and  the  boor  more  marked 
than  at  the  table. 

The  best  teachers  of  etiquette  are  the  fathers  and  mothers,  and  their 
lessons  should  be  given  chiefly  through  example.  The  best  company  in  the 
world  are  those  of  our  own  households ;  they  deserve  all  the  love  and  sweet* 
ness  which  we  can  bestow  upon  them,  and  the  gracious  mannera  of  the  home 
must  follow  them  through  life.  All  good  breeding  includes  kindness,  cour- 
tesy, unselfishness,  respect,  tact,  gentleness  and  modesty  of  deportment. 

If  children  are  carefully  taught  to  hold  the  knife  and  fork  properly,  to 
eat  without  the  slightest  sound  of  the  lips,  to  drink  quietly,  to  use  the  nap- 
kin rightly,  to  make  no  noise  with  any  of  the  implements  of  the  table,  and, 
last  but  not  least,  to  eat  slowly  and  masticate  the  food  properly,  then  they 
will  always  feel  at  their  ease  at  the  grandest  tables  in  the  land. 

Once  seated  at  table,  gloves  are  drawn  off  and  laid  in  the  lap  under  th« 
napkin,  which  is  spread  lightly,  not  tucked  in. 

Soup  is  always  served  for  the  first  course,  and  it  should  be  eaten  with 
dessert  spoons,  and  taken  from  tlie  sides,  not  the  tips  of  them,  without  any 
sound  of  the  lips,  and  not  sucked  into  the  mouth  audibly  from  the  ends  of 
the  spooii.  Bread  should  not  be  broken  into  soup  or  gravy.  Never  ask  to 
be  helped  to  soup  a  second  time.  Fish  chowder,  which  is  served  in  soup 
plates,  is  said  to  be  an  exception  which  proves  this  rule,  and  when  eating  of 
that  it  is  correct  to  take  a  second  plateful,  if  desired. 

Another  generally  neglected  obligation  is  that  of  spreading  butter  on 
one's  bread  as  it  lies  in  one's  plate,  or  but  slightly  lifted  at  one  end  of  the 
plate;  it  is  very  frequently  buttered  in  the  air^  bitten  in  gouges,  and  still 
held  in  the  face  and  eyes  of  the  table  with  the  marks  of  the  teeth  on  it. 
This  is  certainly  not  altogether  pleasant,  and  it  is  better  to  cut  it,  a  bit  at  a 
time,  after  buttering  it,  and  put  piece  by  piece  in  the  mouth  with  one's 
finger  and  thumb*  Never  help  yourself  to  butter,  or  any  other  food  with 
your  own  knife  or  fork.  It  ^s  not  considered  good  taste  to  mix  food  on  the 
Ifune  plate. 


214 


TABLE  ETIQUETTE. 


:> 


Drink  sparingly  while  eating,  as  it  is  far  better  for  digestion,  but  when  yon 
do  drink,  do  it  gently  and  easily  and  do  not  pour  the  liquid  down  your  throat. 
'  Do  not  talk  loud  or  boisterously  at  the  table,  but  aim  to  be  clieerful 
and  oompanionable  and  join  in  the  conversation,  but  do  not  monopolize  it, 
Do  not  twirl  your  goblet,  nor  soil  the  tablecloth  by  placing  bones  or  frag* 
ments  on  it.  Never  turn  tea  or  coffee  into  your  saucer  to  cool  it,  nor  blow 
your  soup.  If  you  do  not  like  any  dish  with  which  you  are  served,  allow  it 
to  regain  untouched  until  the  servant  removes  it. 

Sit  upright  at  the  table,  without  bending  over  or  lowering  your  head  to 
partake  of  your  food.  Do  not  sit  too  far  away  or  too  near  the  table,  and  do 
not  sit  with  one  arm  lying  on  the  table  with  your  back  half-turned  to  your 
left-hand  neighbor. 

The  one  who  serves  at  the  table  should  not  help  too  abundantly,  or 
flood  the  food  with  gravies,  as  many  do  not  like  them,  and  it  is  better  to  al- 
low each  guest  to  help  himself.  Water  should  be  poured  to  the  right  of  a 
person — everything  else  passed  to  the  left.  Do  not  watch  the  dishes  while 
being  uncovered  or  talk  with  your  mouth  full.  If  you  discover  anything 
objectionable  in  the  food,  do  not  attract  the  attention  of  others  to  it,  but 
quietly  deposit  it  under  the  edge  of  your  plate. 

If  boiled  eggs  are  brought  on  in  the  shell,  egg  cups  should  be  provided, 
the  small  end  of  the  egg  should  be  placed  in  the  cup,  and  an  opening  made 
at  the  top  of  the  egg  sufficiently  large  to  admit  a  teaspoon. 

Spoons  are  sometimes  used  with  firm  puddings,  but  forks  are  the  better 
style.    A  spoon  should  never  be  turned  over  in  the  mouth. 

Oiit?  ^.  teeth  are  not  to  be  picked  at  table ;  but  if  it  is  impossible  to  bin* 
Aer  it,  it  should  be  done  behind  the  napkin. 

Let  us  mention  a  few  things  concerning  the  eating  of  which  there  ia 
sometimes  doubt.  A  cream-cake  and  anything  of  similar  nature  should  b^ 
e&ten  with  knife  and  fork,  never  bitten.  Asparagus  may  be  taken  from  the 
finger  and  thumb.  Pastry  should  be  broken  and  eaten  with  a  fork,  never 
cut  with  a  knife.  Raw  oysters  should  be  eaten  with  a  fork,  also  fish.  IIow- 
Bver»  food  that  cannot  be  held  with  a  fork  should  be  eaten  with  a  spoon. 
Potatoes,  if  mashed,  should  be  mashed  with  a  fork.  Green  corn  should  be 
eaten  from  the  cob,  held  with  a  single  hand  only. 

Oranges  are  peeled  and  either  cut  or  separated,  or  they  may  be  out 
crosswise  and  eaten  with  a  spoon.  ; 

Celery,  cresses,  olives,  radishes  and  relishes  of  that  kind,  are,  oi  ooanMp 
to  be  eaten  with  the  fingers ;  the  salt  should  be  laid  upon  the  plate,  not 
upon  the  cloth.  Cut  with  the  knife,  but  never  put  it  in  the  mouth  i  the 
fork  must  convey  the  food*. 


TABLE  ETIQUETTE.  215 

Let  the  food  be  taken  to  the  mouth,  and  not  the  mouth  to  the  food. 

Fish  is  to  be  eaten  with  the  fork,  without  the  assistance  of  the  knife ;  a 
bit  of  bread  in  the  left  hand  sometimes  helps  one  to  master  a  refractory 
morsel.  Fresh  fruit  should  be  eaten  with  a  silver  bladed  knife,  especially 
pears,  apples,  etc. 

At  the  conclusion  of  a  course,  where  they  have  been  used,  knife  and 
fork  should  be  laid  side  by  side  across  the  middle  of  the  plate — never  crossed 
— with  handles  to  the  right.     The  servant  should  offer  everything  at  the  left « 
of  the  guest,  that  the  guest  may  be  at  liberty  to  use  the  right  hand,  except 
water,  which  should  be  poured  at  the  right  side.  , 

When  you  rise  from  your  chair,  leave  it  where  it  stands. 

**Dont's"  for  the  Dining-room. 

Don't  keep  other  people  waiting ;  be  there  in  time. 

Don't  lie  back  in  your  chair  or  place  your  elbows  on  the  table. 

Don't  sit  sideways,  but  straight  to  the  table. 

Don't  seat  yourself  until  all  the  ladies  are  seated. 

Don't  bend  your  head  for  each  mouthful.     Sit  erect. 

Don't  cut  your  bresid.     Break  it  off. 

Don't  use  your  knife  to  carry  food  to  your  mouth. 

Don't  use  your  fork  as  if  it  were  a  pitchfork. 

Don't  make  any  noise  with  your  mouth  when  eating. 

Don't  speak  with  your  mouth  full  or  even  half  full. 

Don't  begin  a  sentence  before  you  have  finished  swallowing. 

Don't  drink  a  glassful  at  a  gulp. 

Don't  have  your  elbows  away  from  your  body  when  eatmg  or  drinkuig. 

Don't  ever  spit  a  bone  or  seed  upon  your  plate  or  the  floor. 

Don't  wipe  your  face  with  your  napkin.  It  is  for  the  lips  and  beard 
only. 

Don't  forget  to  see  that  all  the  ladies  are  served  before  you. 

Don't  neglect  the  ladies  to  your  left  or  right. 
*  Don't  look  worried  if  any  small  accident  should  happen. 

Don't  leave  your  knife  and  fork  on  your  plate  when  sent  for  a  second 
supply. 

Don't  pile  up  all  the  side-dishes  upon  your  plate  when  it  is  to  be  r#* 
moved. 

Don't  come  to  the  table  half-dressed,  half- washed,  half-combed. 

Don't  overeat. 

Don't  leave  the  table  before  the  others  unless  unavoidable  and  then  al- 
ways ask  to  be  excused. 


TIME-TA.BLE  FOR  HOUSE- 
KEEPERS 


Apples,  sour^bard 

'Apples,  sweet  und  mellow.., 

Asparagus , 

Beans  (pod) 

Beans  with  green  «..prn 

Beef 

Beefsteak 

Beefsteak 

Beef,  salted .^ 

Bass,  fresh •'  

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old ,  , 

Bread,  com 

Bread,  wheat... 

Butter , 

Cabbage 

Cabbage  and  vinegar 

Cabbage  

Cauliflower 

Cake,  sponge 

Carrot,  orange , 

Cheese,  old , 

Chicken 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole 

Custard  (one  quart) 

Back,  tame 

Duck,  wild 

Dumpling,  apple 

Eggs,  hard 

Eggs,  soft 

Eggs 

Eggs 

Fowls,  domestic,  roasted  or. 

Gelatine 

GoosOy  wild 

Lamb 

(216) 


Mode  of 
Preparation. 


Raw 
Raw 

Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Broiled 
Fried 
Boiled 
Broiled 
'Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Baked 
Melted 
Raw 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Boiled 
Raw 

Fricasseed 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fried 
Raw 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Boiled 


Time  of 
Cooking. 


Time  of 
Digention. 


n.  Ma 


15  to  30 

00 

45 

25 

15 

15 

85 

20 

00 

30 

45 


1  00 

•••••••a 

1  00 

1-2  00 

45 

I  00 

1 
1 
1 


41 


00 
15 
30 
30 
00 
00 
10 
8 
6 


1  00 


20 
20 


H.  M. 

2  50 

1  50 

2  80 
2  80 
8  45 
8  00 
8  00 


4 
4 


00 
15 


8  00 
8  45 
4  00 
8  15 
8  80 
8  80 
2  80 
2  00 
4  80 
2  80 
2  80 
8  15 
8  80 
8  45 
2  00 
2  45 
00 
50 
8  00 
8  80 
8  00 
8  80 
2  00 
4  00 
2  80 
2  80 
2  80 


4 
4 


WMfi-TABLfi  t^OR  UOtJSEKfiEPEBS. 


217 


Meat  and  vegetables. 

Milk 

Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pigs*  feet 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork,  raw  or 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Rice , 


Salmon,  fresh « 

Sausage 

Sausage ••... 

Soup,  vegetable 

Soup,  chicken 

Soup,  oyster  or  mutton 

Spinacli « 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout,  salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or. 

Turkey,  boiled  or 

Turnips 

Veal 


Venison  steak. 


• 


Mode  of 
PrepaTation. 


Hashed 
llaw 
'  Boiled 
Roast 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Roasted 
Stewed 
Boiled 
Soused 
Roast 
Boiled 
Fried 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fried 
Broiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fresh 
Canned 
Fried 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Broiled 
Broiled 


Time  of 
Cooking. 


SO 


25 

• 

20 

1. 

-2 

00 

5 

1 

00 

4 

»••• 

80 
25 

.... 

1 

2 
3 


1 
1 


20 
80 
45 
45 
20 
8 
25 
20 
00 
00 
80 


1-2  00 


80 
00 
80 
80 
20 
45 
20 
20 


Time  of 
DiKcatioD. 


H.   K. 

2  80 
2  15 

2  00 
8  15 
8  00 
8  00 

3  15 
8  80 
8  00 


1 
5 
4 
4 


00 
15 
80 
15 


8  15 
8  80 
8  80 
2  30 


1 
1 
4 


00 
45 
00 


8  30 


4 
8 
8 


00 
00 
80 
2  30 
2  00 
2  80 
2  30 

1  30 

2  80 
8  30 

00 
85 


4 
1 


*  Minutes  to  the  pound. 

The  time  giren  is  the  general  average ,  the  time  will  vary  slightly  with  the  quality  of  th» 
article. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


The  following  table  of  weights  and  measures  will  be  usefuli  and  they 
have  the  merit  of  being  correct. 

One  tablespoonf ul  of  soft  butter,  well  rounded  8=s  1  oonce. 

One  full  cupful  of  butter  =  one-half  pound. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  =  2  ounces. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  a=  1  ounce. 

One  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat  =3  1  pound. 

Nine  eggs  =  1  pound* 

Four  teaspoonfuls  =s  1  tablespoonful  liquid. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  or  half  a  gill  ss  1  quarter  cup. 

Half  a  cup  s=s  1  gill. 

Two  gills  =  1  cupfuL 

Two  coffee  cupfuls  =3  1  pint. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  liquid  s=b  1  ounce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  salt  =  1  ounce. 

Sixteen  ounces  =  1  pound,  or  a  pint  of  liquid. 

One  rounded  tablespoonful  of  flour  =s  one-half  ounce. 
,       Three  cups  of  corn  meal  =  1  pound. 

Qne  and  one-half  pints  of  corn  meal  =  1  pound. 

Four  coffee  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  =  1  pound. 

One  quart  of  unsifted  flour  =  1  pound. 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  =  1  pound. 

}  Two  coffee  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  =  1  pound. 

TwD  and  a  half  cups  of  powdered  sugar  =  1  pound. 

A  set  of  tin  measures  (with  small  spout?  or  lips),  from  a  quart  down  !• 
balf  a  gill,  will  be  found  very  convenient  in  every  kitchen. 
(218) 


FRENCH  WORDS  USED  IN 

COOKING. 


Aspie  : — Savory  jelly  for  cold  dishes. 

Au  gratin  : — Dishes  prepared  with  sauce  and  crumbs  and  baked. 

Bouchie^ : — Very  thin  patties  or  cakes,  as  name  indicates — mouthfals. 

Baba : — A  peculiar,  sweet  French  yeast  cake. 

Bechamel: — A  rich,  white  sauce  made  with  stock. 

Bisque : — A  white  soup  made  of  shellfish. 

To  Blanch : — To  place  any  article  on  the  fire  till  it  boils,  then  plunge  it 
in  cold  water ;  to  whiten  poultry,  vegetables,  etc. 

Bouillon : — A  clear  soup,  stronger  than  broth,  yet  not  so  strong  as  con* 
Mwi?ne,  which  is  "reduced  "  soup.  , 

Braise: — ^Meat  cooked  in  a  closely  covered  stewpan,  so  that  it  retains 
its  own  flavor  and  those  of  the  vegetables  and  flavorings  put  with  it. 

Brioche : — A  very  rich,  unsweetened,  French  cake  made  with  yeast. 

Cannelon  : — Stuffed  rolled-up  meat. 

Consommi : — Clear  soup  or  bouillon  boiled  down  till  very  rich,  *.  e.,  con^ 
sfumed. 

Croquettes: — A  savory  mince  of  fish  or  fowl,  made  with  sauce  into 
shapes,  and  fried. 

Croustades: — Fried  forms  of  bread  to  serve  minces,  or  other  meats 
upon , 

Entree  : — A  small  dish,  usually  served  between  the  courses  at  dinner. 
*         Fondue : — A  light  preparation  of  melted  cheese. 

Fondant: — Sugar  boiled,  and  beaten  to  a  creamy  paste. 

Ildlandaise  Sauce: — A  rich  sauce,  something  like  hot  mayonnaise* 

Matelote : — A  rich  fish  stew,  with  wine. 

Mayonnaise : — A  rich  salad  dressing. 

Maringue: — Sugar  and  white  of  egg  beate«i  to  sauce. 

Marmade : — A  liquor  of  sx)ices,  vinegar,  etc.,  in  which  fish  or  meats  are 
steeped  before  cooking. 

(219) 


226  PftEUCH  WORDS  USED  m  C00K1N6. 

Mirotan: — Cold  meat  warmed  in  various  ways,  and  dished  In  circular 
form. 

Purse : — This  name  is  given  to  very  tliick  soups,  the  ingredients  for 
thickening  which  have  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

Poulette  Sauce : — A  bechamel  sauce,  to  which  white  wine,  and  some- 
times eggs  are  added. 

Ragout : — A  rich,  brown  stew,  with  mushrooms,  vegetables,  etc. 

Piquante : — A  sauce  of  several  flavors,  acid  predominating* 

Quenelles : — Forcemeat  with  bread  ;  yolk  of  eggs,  highly  seasoned,  and 
formed  with  a  spoon  to  an  oval  shape  ;  then  poached  and  used  either  as  a 
dish  by  themselves,  or  to  garnish. 

Hemoulade : — A  salad  dressing  dififering  from  mayonnaise,  in  that  the 
eggs  are  hard  boiled  and  rubbed  in  a  mortar  with  mustard,  herbs,  etc. 

Rissole : — Rich  mince  of  meat  or  fish,  rolled  in  thin  pastry  and  fried. 

Roux: — A  cooked  mixture  of  butter  and  flour,  for  thickening  soups 
a.nd  stews. 

/S'aZmt  .*-^A  rich  stew  of  game,  cut  up  and  dressed,  when  half  roasted. 

Sauter: — To  toss  meat,  etc.,  over  the  fire,  in  a  little  fat. 

Souffli : — A  very  light,  much  whipped-up  pudding  or  omelette." 

Timhale: — A  sort  of  pie  in  a  mold. 

Vol  au  vents : — Patties  of  very  light  pufip  paste,  made  without  a  dish  or 
mold,  and  filled  with  meat  or  preserves,  etc. — Catherine  Otoen^  in  Good  Houe^ 
hoping. 


KITCHEN  TTTENSILS. 


The  following  is  a  list  of  the  utensils  needed  in  every  well-furnished 
kitchen.  Of  course  an  ingenious  housewife  will  make  fewer  do  excellent 
service,  but  all  these  save  time  and  labor,  and  make  the  careful  preparation 
of  food  easier^ 


Two  dish-pans,  two  sizes. 

Two  cake  or  biscuit-cutters,  two  sizes. 

Two  graters,  one  large  and  one  small. 

One  coffee  canister. 

One  tea  canister. 

One  tin  or  granite-ware  teapot. 

One  tin  or  granite-ware  coffee-pot. 

One  griddle-cake  turner. 

Four  nulkpans,  one  milk  strainer. 

One  dozen  iron  gem-pans,  or  muflni- 
rings. 

One  coarse  gravy  strainer,  one  fine 
strainer. 

One  colander. 

One  flour  sifter. 

Two  sweeping  brooms  and  one  dust- 
pan. 

One  whisp  broom. 

One  wooden  butter  ladle. 

One  tin  skimmer. 

One  tin  steamer. 

Two  dippers,  two  sizes. 

Two  funnels,  two  sizes. 

One  nutmeg  grater. 

One  Dover  egg  beater. 

One  bread  board. 

One  set  of  jelly-cake  tins. 

Four  pie-pans. 


One  galvanized  garbage  bucket  with 
lid. 

Tacks. 

Two  wooden  chopping  bowls,  4 wo 
sizes. 

Two    granite-ware    stewpans,    two 
sizes. 

One  wire  toaster. 

One  double  kettle  for  cooking  cus« 
tards,  grains,  etc. 

Two  sugar  boxes,  one  for  coarse  and 
one  for  fine  sugar. 

One  waffle  iron. 

One  stepladder. 

One  stove,  one  coal  shoveL 

One  pair  of  scales. 

Two  coal  hods  or  buckets. 

One  kitchen  table,  two  kitchen  chair* 

One  large  clothes  basket. 

One  apple  corer. 

One  candlestick. 

Two  market  baskets,  two  sizeSi 

One  clock. 

One  ash  bucket. 

One  gridiron. 

One  liard  wood  rolling  pin. 

Dredging  boxes  for  salt,  sugar,  pep- 
per and  flour. 

(221). 


•  f 


222 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


Three  pudding  molds — one  for  boil- 
ing, two  for  baking — two  sizes. 

Two  scoops,  one  for  flour,  one  for 
sngar. 

Two  jelly  molds,  two  sizes. 

One  can  opener. 

One  corkscrew. 

One  chopping  knife*    * 

One  bread  box. 
;    Two  cake  boxes. 

One  large  flour  box. 

One  large-sized  tin  pepper  box. 

One  spice   box,  containing  smaller 
spice  boxes. 

Two  cake-pans,  two  sizes. 

Four  bread-pans. 

Two  square  biscuit-pans. 

One  dozen  patty-pans,  and  the  same 
number  of  tartlet-pans. 

One  large  tin  pail  and  one  wooden 
pail. 

Two  small  tin  pails. 

One  set  of  tin-basins. 

One  set  of  tin  measures. 

Two  lon^.  handled  spoons. 
•  One  refrigerator. 
One  Turk*s  head. 
'  One  wire  basket  for  boiling  eggs. 
Ond  large  grater. 
Twelve  dish  towels. 
Six  hand  towels. 
Two  flour  cloths. 
I'wo  dishcloths. 
One  cream  whipper. 
One  mortar  and  pestle. 
One  scrubbing  brush  for  floor. 
One  scrubbing  brush  for  tables. 
One  scrubbing  brush  for  sink*. 
One  scrubbing  brush  for  vegetables. 
One,  scrubbing  brush  for  glass  and 

china. 
One  pair  of  sardine  scissors. 
,  One  pair  of  bcIssoxb. 


Three  frying-pans  or  spiders,  differ 

ent  sizes. 
Two  dripping-pans,  two  sizes. 
Three  iron  kettles,  porcelain  lined  if 

possible. 
One  corn  beef  or  fish  kettle. 
One  teakettle. 
One  large  nail  hammer  and  one  small 

tack  hammer. 
One  bean  pot. 
One  ice  pick. 
One  lemon  squeezer. 
One  meat  cleaver. 
Tliree  kitchen  knives  and  forks. 
One   large    kitchen    fork   and   four 

kitchen  spoons,  two  sizes. 
Two  wooden  spoons  large  and  small. 
One  large  bread-knife. 
One  griddle-cake    turner,  also  one 

griddle. 

One  potato-masher. 

One  meat-board. 

One  meat-saw. 

Two  large  earthen  bowls. 

Four  stone  jars. 

One  coffee  mill. 

One  meat  chopper(Enterprise,  No.  10.) 

One  heavy  wire  broiler  for  steaks. 

One  wash  basin. 

Four  yellow  bowls,  assorted. 

One  flannel  jelly  bag. 

One  wire  spoon. 

One  hard  wood  mush  stick. 

One  set  of  skewers. 

Six  half  pint  kitchen  cups. 

Two  stone  jugs. 

One  butter  pot. 

Two  large  plates  for  meats  in  refirig* 

erator. 
Twelve  baking  cups  for  popovers. 
One  ball  of  twine. 
Two  pudding  cloths. 
Two  fine  strainer  dotha 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE 

HOUSEKEEPER. 


A  Grain  of  Salt  will  often  make  cream  whip. 

Sail  will  Remove  the  Stain  from  silver  caused  by  eggs,  when  applied  dry 
with  a  soft  cloth. 

Salt  Should  he  Eaten  with  nuts  to  aid  digestion. 

If  the  Water  in  which  Onions  are  Boiled  is  changed  once  or  twice^  the 
vegetable  is  much  more  healthful. 

Cflothespins  Boiled  a  Few  Minutes^  and  quickly  dried,  once  or  twice  a 
month,  become  more  durable. 

To  Set  a  Color. 

One  tablespoonful  of  ox-gall  i .  a  pint  of  water  is  sufficient,  it  is  imma- 
terial whether  cotton,  silk,  or  woolen  fabrics. 

To  Kelp  Lemons. 

Cover  with  cold  water,  changing  it  every  week.  Thb  makes  them 
ripe  and  juicy. 

To  PuiiiFY  Sinks  and  Drains. 

To  one  pound  of  common  copperas  add  one  gallon  of  boiling  water,  and 
use  when  dissolved.  The  copperas  is  deadly  poison,  and  should  always  be 
oarefully  labeled  if  kept  on  hand.  This  is  one  of  the  best  possible  cleansera 
of  pipes  and  drains.  All  pipes  leading  from  the  kitchen  should  have  boil 
ing  lye  turned  down  them  once  a  week  at  least,  in  sufficient  quantities  to 
eat  away  the  accumulation  of  grease  that  coats  the  interior  of  the  pipe.  A 
few  drops  of  carbolic  acid  should  be  poured  down  the  pipes  leading  from 
stationary  washstands. 

To  PuRTFY  Cisterns. 

To  purify  cisterns  Avliere  the  water  has  an  unpleasant  odor,  suspend  in 
the  water  a  muslin  cloth  containing  one  or  more  pounds  of  charcoal- 

C228)  _ 


224  HELFFUL  HIKTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEFilB. 

I 

Smoked  Ceilings. 

Smoked  ceilings  that  have  been  blackened  by  a  kerosene  lamp  may  be 
washed  off  with  soda  water. 

To  Remove  the  Odob  op  Onion 

koTsi  fish-kettle  and  saucepans  in  which  they  have  been  cooked,  put  wood* 
ashes  or  sal  soda,  potash  or  lye ;  fill  with  water  and  let  stand  on  the  stove 
«ntil  it  boils ;  then  wash  in  hot  suds,  and  rinse  well. 

To  Remove  Old  Putty  from  Window  Frames, 
pass  a  red-hot  poker  slowly  over  it  and  it  will  come  off  easily. 

To  Fill  Cracks  in  Plaster. 

Use  vinegar  instead  of  water  to  mix  your  plaster  of  Paris.  Tlie  result- 
ant mass  will  be  like  putty,  and  will  not  ^^  set "  for  twenty  or  thirty  min- 
utes ;  whereas  if  you  use  water  the  plaster  will  become  hard  almost  imme- 
diately before  you  have  time  to  use  it.  Push  it  into  the  cracks  and  smooth 
it  off  nicely  with  a  table-knife. 

Lamps  to  Trim. 

Do  not  cut  the  wick,  turn  it  just  above  the  tube,  take  a  match  and 
flhave  off  the  charred  end,  thus  insuring  an  even  flame.  Then  turn  the 
wick  down  below  the  edge  of  the  tube -that  it  may  not  draw  up  oil  to  soil 
the  outside  of  the  lamp.  Do  not  fill  too  full;  kerosene  kept  in  a  warm 
room  expands  considerably  and  the  result  will  be  oily  lamps,  disagreeable 
to  handle. 

To  Prevent  a  Lamp  from  Smokinci. 
,  Soak  the  wick  in  vinegar,  and  dry  it  well  before  using. 

To  Remove  Paint  from  Window-glass. 
fiub  it  well  with  hot  sharp  vinegar. 

To  Test  Nutmegs. 

Prick  them  with  a  pin ;  if  good,  the  oil  will  instantly  spread  around 
liv  puncture. 

Squeaking  Doors 


•aght  to  haye  the  hinges  oiled  by  putting  on  a  drop  from  the  sewing  m^ 
eM&e  oil-can. 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  TH£  HOUSEKEEPSIL  225 

To  Clean  Stoyspipb. 

A  piece  of  ano  put  on  the  live  coals  in  the  stove  will  dean  oat  tte 
■tovepipe. 

To  Take  Ink  Out  of  Linen. 

Dip  the  ink-spot  in  pure  melted  tallow,  then  wash  out  the  tallow  and 
the  ink  will  come  out  with  it.    This  is  said  to  be  unfailing*     Milk  will  re* 
move  ink  from  linen  or  colored  muslins,  when  acids  would  be  ruinous,  by  ' 
soaking  the  goods  until  the  spot  is  very  faint  and  then  rubbing  and  rinsing 
in  oold  water. 

To  Destroy  Grass  in  Gravel  Walks. 

Scatter  the  cheapest  coarse  salt  along  the  edges  and  wherever  the  grass 
is  springing  up.  Even  the  Canada  thistle  can  be  destroyed  by  cutting  the 
stalks  close  to  the  ground  and  putting  salt  on  them. 

Mosquito  Remedy. 

To  clear  a  sleeping-room  of  mosquitoes  take  a  piece  ot  paper  rolled 
around  a  lead-pencil  to  form  a  case,  and  fill  this  with  very  dry  Pyrethrum 
powder  (Persian  insect  powder),  putting  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and  pressing 
it  down  with  the  pencil.  This  cartridge,  or  cigarette,  may  be  set  in  a  cup 
of  sand  to  hold  it  erect.  An  hour  before  going  to  bed  the  room  is  to  be 
closed,  and  one  of  these  cartridges  burned.  A  single  cartridge  will  answer 
for  a  small  room,  but  for  a  large  one  two  are  required.  Those  who  have 
tried  this  find  that  it  eOectually  disposes  of  the  mosquitoes. 

To  Toughen  Lamp-chimnets  and  Glassware. 

Immerse  the  article  in  a  pot  filled  with  cold  water,  to  which  some  06m* 
mon  salt  has  been  added.  Boil  the  water  well  then  cool  slowly.  Glass 
treated  in  this  way,  will  resist  any  sudden  change  of  temperature. 

Food  for  Hens. 

Take  a  piece  of  iresh  meat,  coarse  beef  liver,  about  one  pound »  and 
boil  it  in  one-half  gallon  of  water  until  it  falls  to  pieces,  adding  more  water 
as  it  is  evaporated,  so  that  there  shall  be  this  quantity  when  it  is  sufficiently 
boiled.  While  boiling,  add  one-half  pint  of  soaked  beans,  the  same  of  rice, 
and  the  same  of  oil  cake  or  linseed  meal.  When  the  whole  is  cooked,  add 
a  little  salt,  and  thicken  with  two  parts  of  oatmeal,  one  of  bran,  one  of  mid* 
dlings,  and  one  of  corn  meal.  Make  it  of  the  constatency  of  stiff  dough. 
*  16 


226  HELPFUL  nnrrs  fob  the  housekeepkb. 

If  milk  be  plenty,  it  may  be  added  either  as  curds,  buttermilk,  or  in  an% 
other  shape.  When  boiling,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  common  bread  soda  to 
the  water.  This  food  may  be  cooked  in  the  form  of  cake,  and  crumbled  fur 
the  fowls,  or  it  may  be  fed  in  the  soft  state.  One  tablespoonful  b  a  suf. 
fioient  ration  for  a  hen. 

Faded  Goods. 

.  Plush  goods  and  all  articles  dyed  with  aniline  colors  which  have  fade4 
from  exposure  to  the  light  will  look  as  bright  as  new  after  sponging  witk 
chloroform. 

Papeb-Hakgbbs'  Paste. 

To  make  paper-hangers*  paste,  beat  up  four  pounds  of  good,  white, 
wheat  flour  (well  sifted  previously)  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  form  a  stifl 
batter.  Beat  it  well  in  order  to  take  out  all  lumps,  and  then  add  enough 
cold  water  to  make  the  mixture  of  the  consistency  of  pudding  batter.  To 
this  add  about  two  ounces  of  well-pounded  alum.  Pour  gently  and  quickly 
oyer  the  batter  boiling  water,  stirring  rapidly  at  the  same  time,  and  when  it 
is  seen  to  lose  the  white  color  of  the  flour,  it  is  cooked  and  ready.  Do  not 
use  it,  however,  while  hot,  but  allow  it  to  cool.  Pour  about  a  pint  of  cold 
water  over  the  top  to  prevent  a  skin  from  forming.  Before  using,  the  paste 
should  be  thinned  by  the  addition  of  cold  water. 

An  Ant  Teap. 

Procure  a  large  sponge,  wash  it  well,  and  press  it  dry,  which  will  leave 
the  cells  quite  open ;  then  sprinkle  over  it  some  fine  white  sugar,  and  place 
it  near  where  the  ants  are  the  most  troublesome.  They  will  soon  collect 
upon  the  sponge,  and  take  up  their  abode  in  the  cells.  It  is  then  only  neces- 
sary to  dip  the  sponge  in  scalding  water,  which  will  wash  them  out  *^  clean 
4ead ''  by  ten  thousands.  Put  on  more  sugar,  and  the  trap  for  a  new  haul. 
This  process  will  soon  clear  the  house  of  every  ant,  uncle,  and  progeny. 

To  Wash  Windows. 

To  wash  windows,  take  a  little  spirits  of  ammonia  on  a  sponge,  mil 
over  the  glass  touching  every  part  of  the  pane,  then  rub  briskly. 

To  Rbhovb  a  Glass  Stoppbb 

that  has  become  tightened,  heat  the  neck  of  the  bottle  with  a  lighted  matcA 
flvr  a  few  seconds,  and  it  can  easily  be  removed. 


HSLFFUL  HINTS  FOB  THE  HOUSEKEEPEB.  227 

To  Cleak  1'bon  Sikks. 
Rub  them  well  with  a  cloth  wet  with  kerosene  oiL 

Death  to  Buqgu 

Varnish  is  death  to  the  moat  persistent  bug.  It  is  cheap— ten  oenti* 
worth  will  do  for  one  bedstead — ^is  easily  used,  is  safe,  and  improves  the  looks 
of  the.  furniture  to  which  it  is  applied.  The  application  must,  however,  be 
thorough — the  slate,  sides,  and  every  crack  and  corner  receiving  attention. 

To  Dbivb  Away  Bed  Bugs.' 

Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  ten  cents*  worth  of  quicksilver,  and 
beat  together  until  a  stiff  froth.  Take  a  feather,  dip  in,  and  apply  to  the 
bedstead. 

Befobb  Beginning  to  Seed  Raisins 

cover  them  with  hot  water  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes.  The  seeds 
oan  then  be  removed  easily  without  a  particle  of  waste. 

Packing  Bottles. 
India-rubber  bands  slipped  over  them  will  prevent  breakage. 

Nothing  Takes  the  Sobeness 
firom  bruises  and  sprains  as  quickly  as  alcohol. 

To  Prevent  Flies  Injuring  Pioturb  Frames. 

Boll  three  or  four  onions  in  one  pint  of  water.  Brush  your  frames 
over  with  the  liquid.  No  fly  will  touch  them,  and  it  will  not  injure  the 
frames. 

Ammonia 

is  not  only  useful  for  cleaning,  but  as  a  household  medicine.  Half  a  tea- 
spoonful  taken  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water  is  far  better  for  faintness  thain 
alcoholic  stimulants.  In  the  Temperance  Hospital,  in  London,  it  is  used 
with  the  best  results.  It  was  used  freely  by  Lieutenant  Greely^s  Arctic  party 
for  keeping  up  circulation.  It  is  a  relief  in  nervousness,  headache,  and 
heart  disturbances. 

« 

To  Destroy  CATERPrUiARS. 

Hang  pieces  of  woolen  cloth  amongst  the  trees  and  shmbs ;  the  cater^ 
plUar  will,  during  the  night,  take  shelter  on  these  and  in  that  way  tiiousandi 
nay  be  deetioyed  every  n^oruing. 


228 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEEJSEFEB. 


To  Clean  Dishcloths  and  Towblb. 

Pat  a  teaspoonfal  of  ammonia  into  the  water  in  which  these  oloths  arey 
or  should  be  washed  every  day ;  rub  soap  on  the  towels.  Put  them  in  the 
water,  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  or  so ;  rub  them  out  thoroughly,  rinae 
faithfully,  and  dry  outdoors  in  dear  air  and  sun,  and  dishcloths  and  towels 
..need  never  look  gmy  and  dingy — a  perpetual  discomfort  to  all  housekeep- 
ers." . 


i.  •'. 


Canned  Fruit 

is  much  better  if  opened  an  hour  or  two  before  using,  to  restore  the  oxy- 
gen. 

« 

Bhubard 
scalded  a  few  minutes  before  cooking  will  require  much  less  sugar. 


Moths  in  Carpets. 

If  you  fear  that  they  are  at  work  at  the  edge  of  the  carpet,  it  will  some- 
times suffice  to  lay  a  wet  tOwel,  and  press  a  hot  flatiron  over  it ;  but  the 
best  way  is  to  take  the  carpet  up,  and  clean  it,  and  give  a  good  deal  of  at- 
tention to  the  iloor.  Look  in  the  cracks  and  if  you  discover  signs  of  moths, 
wash  the  floor  with  benzine  and  scatter  red  pepper  on  it  before  putting  the 
carpet  lining  down. 

Heavy  carpets  sometimes  do  not  require  taking  up  every  year,  unless 
in  constant  use.  Take  out  the  tacks  from  these,  fold  the  carpets  back,  wash 
the  floor  in  strong  suds  with  a  tablespoonful  of  borax  dissolved  in  them. 
Dash  with  insect  powder,  or  lay  with  tobacco  leaves  along  the  edge  and  re- 
tack.  Or  use  turpentine,  the  enemy  of  buflalo  moths,  carpet  worms  and  other 
insects  that  injure  and  destroy  carpets.  Mix  the  turpentine  with  pure  water 
in^the  proportion  of  three  tablospoonfuls  to  three  quarts  of  water,  and  then 
after  the  carpet  has  been  well  swept,  go  over  each  breadth  carefully  with  a 
sponge  dipped  in  the  solution  and  wrung  nearly  dry.  Change  the  water  as 
often  as  it  becomes  dirty.  The  carpet  will  be  nicely  cleaned  as  well  as  dis- 
infected. All  moths  can  be  kept  away  and  the  eggs  destroyed  by  this 
means.  Spots  may  be  renovated  by  the  use  of  ox-gall  or  ammonia  and  water- 
ed A  good  way  to  brighten  a  carpet  is  to  put  a  half  tumbler  of  spirits  of 
turpentine  in  a  basin  of  water,  and  dip  your  broom  in  it  and  sweep  over  the 
oarpet  once  or  twice,  and  it  will  restore  the  color  and  brighten  it  up  until 
you  would  think  it  new.  Another  good  way  to  clean  old  carpets  is  to  rub 
ihem  over  with  meal;  just  dampen  it  a  very  little  and  rub  the  carpet  with 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPEE.  229 

It*  and  when  perfectly  drj,  sweep  over  with  meal.  After  a  carpet  is  thor< 
oughly  swept,  rub  it  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  water  and  ammonia ;  it  will 
brighten  the  colors  and  make  it  look  like  new. 

To  Remove  Moths  From  Furniture. 

Moths  may  be  exterminated  or  driven  from  upholstered  work  bj 
sprinkling  this  with  benzine.  The  benzine  is  put  in  a  small  watering  pot| 
such  as  is  used  for  sprinkling  house-plants  it  does  not  spot  the  mofc^t  deli 
c«ite  silkf  and  the  unpleasant  odor  passes  off  in  an  hour  or  two  in  the  aii 
Care  must  be  used  not  to  carry  on  this  work  near  a  fire  or  flame,  as  the 
vapor  of  benzine  is  very  inflammable.  It  is  said  that  a  little  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine added  to  the  water  with  which  floors  are  washed  will  prevent  the 
ravages  of  moths. 

To  Clean  Mica. 

To  clean  mica  in  a  stove  that  has  become  blackened  with  smoke,  is  to 
take  it  out,  and  thoroughly  wash  it  with  vinegar.  If  the  black  does  not 
oome  off  at  once,  let  it  soak  a  little. 

To  Ventilate  a  Room. 

Place  a  pitcher  of  cold  water  on  a  table  in  your  room  and  it  will  absorb 
all  the  gases  with  which  the  room  is  filled  from  the  respiration  of  those  eat- 
ing or  sleeping  in  the  apartment.  Very  few  realize  how  important  such 
purification  is  for  the  health  of  the  family,  or,  indeed,  understand  or  realize 
that  there  can  be  any  impurity  in  the  rooms;  yet  in  a  few  hours  a  pitcher 
or  pail  of  cold  water — the  colder  the  more  effective — will  make  the  air  of  a 
room  pure»  but  the  water  will  be  entirely  unfit  for  use. 

Novel  Dress  Mending. 

A  novel  way  of  mending  a  woolen  or  silk  dress  in  which  a  round  hole 
has  been  torn,  and  where  only  a  patch  could  remedy  matters,  is  the  follow* 
ing:  The  frayed  portions  around  the  tear  should  be  carefully  smoothed, 
and  a  piece  of  the  material,  moistened  with  very  thin  mucilage,  placed  undec 
the  hole.  A  heavy  weight  should  be  put  upon  it  until  it  is  dry,  when  it  ig 
Mly  possible  to  discover  the  mended  place  by  careful  observation. 

Cement  fob  Broken  China  ob  Glass. 

Dissolve  one*half  ounce  of  gum  arabic  in  a  wineglassful  of  boiling 
water;  add  plaster  of  Paris  sufficient  to  form  a  thick  paste,  and  apply  it 
with  a  brash  to  the  broken  parts :  being  nearly  colorless,  it  is  better  than 
Hqotd  glue  or  other  cements. 


* 


r 

280  HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPER. 

Simple  DisnrrBorANT. 

The  following  is  a  refreshing  disinfectant  for  a  sick  room,  or  any  room 
that  has  an  unpleasant  aroma  pervading  it:  Put  some  fresh  ground  coffee 
in  a  saioer,  and  in  the  center  place  a  small  piece  of  camphor  gum,  which 
light  with  a  match.  As  the  gum  burns,  allow  sufficient  coffee  to  consume 
with  it.  The  perfume  is  very  pleasant  and  healthful,  being  far  superior  to 
pastiles,  and  very  much  cheaper. 

Watbbpboof  Shobs. 

To  make  shoes  waterproof  and  make  them  last  a  long  time,  dissoh 
beeswax  and  add  a  little  sweet-oil  to  thin  it.    Before  the  shoes  are  worn, 
warm  the  soles  and  pour  the  melted  wax  on  with  a  teaspoon  ;  and  then  hold 
it  close  to  the  fire  till  it  soaks  into  the  leather;  then  add  more  till  the 
leather  ceases  to  absorb  it. 

To  Soften  Boots  and  Shoes. 

Kerosene  will  ^of  ten  boots  and  shoes  which  have  been  hardened  by 
water,  and  render  them  as  pliable  as  new. 

jlAzoit  Straps 

are  kept  in  order  by  applying  a  few  drops  of  sweet-oil.  After  using  a  strap, 
the  razor  takes  a  keen  edge  by  passing  it  over  the  palm  of  the  warm 
banc  \  dipping  it  in  warm  water  also  makes  it  cut  more  keenly. 

To  Soften  Leather. 

The  best  oil  for  making  boots  and  harness  leather  soft  and  pliable,  is 
jastor-oil.     It  is  also  excellent  for  greasing  vehicles. 

X 

Limewateb  and  its  Uses.  ' 

Place  a  piece  of  unslacked  lime  (size  is  immaterial,  as  the  water  will 
cake  up  only  a  certain  quantity)  in  a  perfectly  clean  bottle,  and  fill  with 
cold  water;  keep  corked  in  a  cellar  or  cool  dark  place;  it  is  ready  for 
use  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  clear  limewater  may  be  used  whenever  it 
is  needed.  When  the  water  is  poured  off,  add  more;  this  may  be  done 
three  or  four  times,  after  which  some  new  lime  must  be  used  as  at  first. 
A  teaspoonful  in  a  cup  of  milk  is  a  remedy  for  children's  summer  complaint , 
also  for  acidity  of  the  stomach;  when  added  to  milk  it  has  no  unpleasant 
taste.  When  put  into  milk  that  wonld  otherwise  curdle  when  heated,  it 
prevents  its  curdling,  so  that  it  oan  then  be  used  for  puddings  and  pies. 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPEB.  231 

A  sniill  quantity  of  it  will  prevent  the  **  turning  **  of  cream  and  milk. 
It  also  sweetens  and  porifies  bottles  which  hava  contained  milk.  Soma 
add  a  capful  to  a  sponge  of  bread  to  prevent  it  from  souring. 

To  KxEP  A  Broom. 

If  a  broom  be  inserted  ererj  week  in  hoUing  nub^  H  will  be  tongb- 
•ned  and  last  mnch  longer,  will  not  cat  the  carpet,  and  wiU  remain  elastic 
aa  a  new  broom. 

To  Make  Carpets  Bright. 

Sprinkle  them  with  tea  leaves,  sweep  thoroughly,  bat  lightly.  Rub  all 
spots  with  a  clean  dry  cloth.  Grease  spots  may  be  drawn  oat  by  covering 
with  a  piece  of  coarse  brown  paper,  and  then  passing  over  them  a  warm  flat- 
iron.    The  paper,  if  soft,  will  absorb  the  grease. 

Cleaning  Oiijcloths. 

A  dingy  oilclotn  may  be  brightened  br  washing  it  with  clear  water  vrith 
a  little  borax  dissolved  in  it ;  wipe  it  with  a  flannel  cloth  that  yoa  have 
dipped  inta  milk«  and  then  wrang  as  dry  as  possible. 

To  Wash  Oilcloth  and  Linoleuil 

Oilcloth  shoald  never  be  scrubbed,  but  washed  with  a  scft  woolen  cloth 
and  lake  warm  water,  in  which  a  little  milk  has  been  dissolved.  Soap  and 
hot  water  destroy  the  pattern  and  color. 

To  Wash  ilAxxiNO. 

To  wash  matting,  vripe  off  with  a  cloth  wrung  &om  salt  and  water 
This  prevents  taming  yellow. 

DisooLOBED  Spots  ox  Caepet. 

Discolored  spots  on  carpet  can  be  freq nent'v  restored  by  niLLing  with 
a  sponge  dipped  in  ammonia  diluted  with  water ;  cloihlcg  the  same.  Ox- 
gall is  useful  for  same  purpose. 

Soot  aw  Cabpets. 

Soot  on  carpets^,  falling  frriui  an  open  clii.r.nev.  niir  le  s^?r4  cp  with- 
out the  8li;:htcst  trouble  by  s^^riuk^*      'I  lavi&LIy  wiJi  skl«  a«  drs;,  and  ih 
aweepiug. 


282  HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPER. 

To  Take  Rust  Out  of  STEEii. 

If  possible,  place  the  article  in  a  bowl  containing  kerosene  oil,  or  wrap 
the  steel  up  in  a  soft  cloth  well-saturated  with  kerosene ;  let  it  remain 
twenty-four  hours  or  longer ;  then  scour  the  rusty  spots  with  brick  dust ;  if 
badly  rusted,  use  salt  wet  with  hot  vinegar ;  after  scouring  rinse  every  par* 
tide  of  brick  dust  or  salt  off  with  boiling  water,  and  dry  thoroughly  with 
flannel  cloths. 

Staboh  Polish. 

-Take  one  ounce  of  spermaceti  and  one  ounoo  of  white  wax ;  melt  and 
run  into  a  thin  cake  on  a  plate.  A  piece  the  size  of  a  quarter  dollar  added 
to  a  quart  of  prepared  starch  gives  a  beautiful  lustre  to  the  olothes  and  pre- 
vents the  iron  from  sticking. 

Umbrellas,  to  Preserve. 

Put  umbrellas  in  the  rack  to  dry  with  the  handles  down,  that  water 
may  not  run  down  and  rust  the  wires. 

To  Keep  Paint  Bbushes. 

Turn  a  new  brush  bristles  up,  open,  pour  in  a  spoonful  of  good  vamishi 
and  keep  in  that  position  until  dry,  and  the  bristles  will  never  ^^shed"  in 
painting.  The  varnish  also  keeps  it  from  shrinking  and  falling  to  pieces. 
As  soon  as  a  job  is  finished,  wipe  brush  clean,  wrap  in  piece  of  paper,  and 
hang  it  in  a  small  deep  vessel  containing  oil,  letting  the  brush  descend  into 
the  oil  up  to  the  wrapping  cord.  This  will  keep  paint  and  varnish  brushes 
clean  and  ready  for  use. 

Washing  Fluid. 

One  gallon  of  water  and  four  pounds  of  ordinary  washing  soda,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  soda.  Heat  the  water  to  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  soda, 
boil  about  five  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  two  pounds  of  unslaked  lime,  let 
it  bubble  and  foam  until  it  settles,  turn  it  off  and  bottle  it  for  use.  A  table* 
spoonful  put  into  a  suds  of  three  gallons  makes  the  clothes  very  white  and 
clear.  Must  be  well  rinsed  afterwards.  This  preparation  will  remove  tea 
stains,  and  almost  all  ordinary  stains  of  fruit,  grass,  etc.  This  fluid  does  not 
rot  the  clothes,  but  should  not  be  left  long  in  any  water ;  the  boiling,  sudsing, 
rinsing  and  blueing,  should  be  done  in  quick  succession,  until  the  olothes  are 
ready  to  hang  on  the  line. 

Salt  or  beefs  gall  in  the  water  helps  to  set  black.    A  tablespoonful  ol 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  H0U8EKEEPEB.  238 

Bpiritfl  of  turpentine  to  a  gallon  of  waior  sets  most  blues,  and  alum  is  very 
TBfficadous  in  setting  green.  Black  or  very  dark  calicoes  should  be  stiffened 
with  gum  arable — five  cents  worth  is  enough  for  a  dress.  If,  however,  starch 
is  used,  the  garment  should  be  turned  wrong  side  out.  ^ 

A  simple  way  to  remove  grass  stains  is  to  spread  butter  on  them,  and. 
lay  the  article  in  hot  sunshine,  or  wash  in  alcohol.  Fruit  stains  upon  cloth 
or  the  hands  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  with  the  juice  of  ripe  tomatoea 
If  applied  immediately,  powdered  starch  will  also  take  fruit  stains  out  of 
table  linen.  Left  on  the  spot  for  a  few  hours,  it  absorbs  every  trace  of  the 
stain. 

There  are  several  effectual  methods  of  removing  grease  from  cloths. 
First,  wet  with  a  linen  cloth  dipped  in  chloroform.  Second,  mix  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  alcohol  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  shake  together  until  the 
salt  is  dissolved,  and  apply  with  a  sponge.  Third,  wet  with  weak  ammonia 
water;  then  lay  a  thin  white  blotting  or  tiisue  paper  over  it,  and  iron  lightly 
with  an  iron  not  too  hot.  Fourth,  apply  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  alcohol, 
gin  and  ammonia. 

Oandle  grease  yields  to  a  warm  iron.  Place  a  piece  of  blotting  or 
other  absorbing  paper  under  the  fabric ;  put  a  piece  of  the  paper  also  on 
the  spot,  apply  the  warm  iron  to  the  paper,  and  as  soon  as  a  spot  of  grease 
appears,  move  the  paper  and  press  until  the  spot  disappears.  Lard  will  re- 
move wagon  grease.  Bub  the  spot  with  the  lard  as  if  washing  it,  and  when 
it  is  well  out,  wash  in  the  ordinary  way  with  soap  and  water  until  tho- 
roughly cleansed. 

To  make  linen  beautifully  white,  prepare  the  water  for  washing  by  put- 
ting into  every  ten  gallons  a  large  handful  of  powdered  borax ;  or  boil  with 
the  clothes  one  teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Fruit  stains  may  be  taken  out  by  boiling  water.  Place  the  material 
over  a  basin  or  other  vessel,  and  pour  the  boiling  water  from  the  kettle  over 
the  stains.   ■ 

To  Kbep  Cider. 

Allow  three- fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  gallon,  the  whites  of  six 
eggs,  well  beaten,  a  handful  of  common  salt.  Leave  it  open  until  fermen- 
tation ceases,  then  bung  up.  This  proccBs  a  dealer  in  cider  has  used  for 
years,  and  always  succe^isfully. 

Another  recipe: — To  keep  cider  sweet  allow  it  to  work  until  it  has 
reached  the  state  most  desirable  to  the  tanto,  and  then  add  one  and  a  half 
tumblers  of  grated  horse- ra'lish  to  each  barrel,    and  siiakc  up  well.     This 


I 

I 


284  HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  HOUSEKEEPER. 

» 

arrests  further  fermentation.  After  remaining  a  few  weeks,  rack  off  and 
bung  up  closelj  in  clean  casks. 

\  A  Holland  recipe : — To  one  quart  of  new  milk,  fresh  from  the  cow  (not 
•irained),  add  one-half  pound  of  ground  I^laok  mustard  seed  and  six  eggs. 
Beat  the  whole  well  together,  and  pour  into  a  barrel  of  cider.  It  will  keep 
cidex  sweet  for  one  year  or  more. 

To  Clean  Black  Dbbbs  Silks* 

O.ie  of  the  things  **  not  generally  known,**  at  least  in  this  country,  is  the 
Parisi^AH  method  of  cleaning  black  silk  ;  the  mqdu9  operandi  is  very  simple, 
and  the  result  infinitely  superior  to  that  achieved  in  any  other  manner.  The 
silk  must  be  thoroughly  brushed  and  wiped  with  a  cloth,  then  laid  flat  on  a 
boatd  or  table,  and  well-sponged  with  hot  coffee,  thoroughly  freed  from  sedi- 
ment by  being  strained  through  muslin.  The  silk  is  sponged  on  the  side  in- 
tended to  show ;  it  is  allowed  to  become  partially  dry,  and  then  ironed  on 
the  wrong  side.  The  coffee  removes  every  particle  of  grease,  and  restores 
the  brilliancy  of  silk,  without  imparting  to  it  either  the  shiny  appearance  or 
oracikly  and  papery  stiffness  obtained  by  beer,  or,  indeed,  any  other  liquid. 
The  silk  really  appears  thickened  by  the  process,  and  this  good  effect  is  per^ 
manent.  Our  readers  who  will  experimentalize  on  an  apron  or  cravat,  will 
never  again  try  any  other  method. 

To  remove  Paint  from  Black  Silk: — Patient  rubbing  with  chloroform 
will  remove  paint  from  black  silk  or  any  other  goods,  and  will  not  hurt  the 
most  delicate  color  or  fabrlo. 

Oil  Stains  in  Silk  and  Other  Fabrics. 

Benzine  is  most  effectual,  not  only  for  silk,  but  for  any  other  material 
whatever.  It  can  be  procured  from  any  druggist.  By  simply  oovering  both 
sides  of  greased  silk  with  magnesia,  and  allowing  it  to  remain  for  a  few 
hours,  the  oil  is  absorbed  by  the  powder.  Should  the  first  application  be 
insufficient,  it  may  be  repeated,  and  even  rubbed  in  with  the  hand.  Should 
the  silk  be  Tussah  or  Indian  silk,  it  will  wash. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves. 

(' 

Take  a  fine,  clean,  soft  cloth,  dip  it  into  a  little  sweet  milk,  then  rab  It 
on  a  cake  of  soap,  and  rub  the  gloves  with  it;  they  will  look  like  new. 

Another  good  way  to  clean  any  color  of  kid  gloves  is  to  pour  a  litUe 
benzine  fnto  a  basin  and  wash  the  gloves  in  it,  rubbing  and  squeezing  them 
until  clean.  If  much  soiled,  they  must  be  washed  through  clean  bentinei 
and  rinsed  in  a  fresh  supply.    Hang  up  in  the  air  to  dry. 


.( 


INDEX. 


••••••  ••«••• —»»»■»»«■»»«««« 


A  ttMd  ttunmerMnk 

Apple  Butter...... ....... 

Aspangus  Omelet....-^^. 

on  TomsL.  .....••.-.^^.m 

OwO^v  OQ  ••••«•••••••■••  ••••••••4 

A  BmniDor  Dniiight««««««*«.««MM«M«*» 


#—•••♦»»■••••■♦•#*•»»••♦•■ 


•••»••••  •••••••••  •••••• 


I  •••••••••••«••«••••«•••• 


PAOB 

111 

176 

76 
76 
76 


.■•...•a 


.......<.......    Jvv 


B6ft111l|      BUttOr....M....MMa...».M.««M.*MM«.«.MMM.  ••.......  76 

B«aiis,  Lima •............•...^.....-»........ 76 

Beans,  Lima  (dried) 70 

Beef  Broth « 164 

Oornedf  to  Bol I ...... .»...>. m....>.  ...... .......m  .........  ol 

Groqnettet 49 

Scrapple 61 

Dried,  with  Cream 52 


Frizzled. 


>■»■■■■■>•#••••—••■•—•■•••••••■•••  • 


62 

Heart,  Roasted........................ 60 

a  la  Mode...... 48 

Pot  Roast.«*..*.«M....... ........ .........M« 48 

XvOBSv. ......  ..  '...#......«...»........♦■...■......>...•.♦.. .....     4/ 


Ronnds,  to  Cure 61 

BR  vOry  a......  ......  ....«..•«<.........«#..  .....................     o« 

SorapedM.....MM......M.....M...............a..M......M..  1G6 

Steak,  Broiled......... 48 

Steak,  on  Onions... 49 

Steak,  Panned  *... ....a.......................... ....   48 

Steak,  Rolled 62 

Steak,  Smothered 48 

Tea 104 

Tongiue,  Boiled 01 

Beets,  Baked 78 

Greens « 77 

Stewed ..« 78 

Beet  Soap.. 29 

Berry  Sherbet 150 

Beny  Tea  Cakes 99 

■toeolls.  Beaten 97 

Dixie 96 

Maryland 97 


Soda 

Tea.  No.  1 

Tea,  No.  2 

Blackberries,  Canned 

Bonnyolabber 

Bordeaux  Sauoe. 179 

Bread,  Boston  Brown. 94 

Boston  Brown  Steamed 94 


■«••••• ■•• 


97 

90 

90 

173 

163 


Com. 


••«••«••••«•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••«  •♦—»•••• 


96 


Bread,  Graham  Va.  1..—. 

Graham  Mo.  t.............^  ...... ............  « 

Milk M 

Soulhem  Rioe. 

Brine  to  Preeenre  Butter............ 100 

Buckwheat  Oakes IDO 

!«((••••••  •«•%••  ••■••«  «••••■  ••••••  ••••••  •••«••  •••••  — •••ee>—    A  f  O 

Lemon................. ...................^176 

Butter  Beans .........^   76 

BuUermllk,  Iced 166 


>■■■■  ••>•»*»■•  f  ••••♦»•••»•••♦— e    s^e 


•  *•••••«••••••*«•■•••••••         •••■  •••••«*»«M 


!••«•••••••••••••••••••••••»•••••• 


!••••••  ■•••••••••«•••••«««••  ••»••••••••• 


Cabbage,  Creamed......... 

Fried 

Heidelberg 

Pickled 

Cake  Fillings,  Chocolate  Cream 

Cream 

Jelly . 
Lemon  Jelly.. 

Nut 

Cake  Icings,  Boiled 

Chocolate ................ 

Cocoanut ......... ......... 

Lemon m.^../. 

Orange 

PUln 

Cakes,  Almond. 

Angers  Food. 

Black... 

Bride's 

Caramel 

Caraway  Seed 

Centennial 

Chocolate 

Chocolate  Eclairs 

Chocolate  Layer i. 

Cinnamon  Cook  Ie.s 

Citron 

Citron  Pound 

Cocoanut  Cookies 

Cocoanut  Liiypr .y 

CoITo#»  No.  1 

CofTop.  No  2 

Col(lw:it<M' , 

ConisUirch ^ 

(286) 


•••••••••••«••••«• 


•••     ••••« 


78 
78 
78 
182 
188 
128 
128 
129 
180 
128 
129 
129 
190 
128 
129 
129 
128 
111 
123 
120 
116 
12e 
12& 

lis 

118 
120 
128 
lU 
122 
TM 
121 
12r 
12Si 
123 
.  12S 


m 


INDEX 


PIGB 

Dream  ^uils ,, ^ 117 

Caj 117 

Dtv\V9  Food 112 

Dominoes l^il 

Drop 127 

•     Eggless 115 

Parmenk*  FruU  Loaf. 123 

Feather ....<^ 115 

Pig ^ ^ „ -  120 

■    '  '  Fruit ^ -  113 

Qold  and  Sllf  er 115 

Hickory  Nut- « 116 

lee  Cream  ....^ 112 

KiMes 118 

Layer « 130 

Lemoti..............^^.............. »..  116 

Lemon  Layer r........^ ....^ 121 

Lemon  Wafers ^......^ '. ^...  126 

Loaf  Dutoh.....^.......^..... 124 

Marble ^......j 116 

Mlnnebaha  .....^.....M 119 

Mixture  for «m..-.^.....~ 117 

Molasses  Ponnd -. «.............«»^......  118 

1,  Hi  8, 4 m 

Orange  Layer ...^.....«.« ^.  121 

Peach.^. ^..  ,....* 122 

'Pound  .....M » 114 

, '       Railroad 113 

'     .  Kibbon 116 

KoU  Jelly „ 117 

Remeo  and  Juliet..... 119 

'Seed.. ; 127 

'      Sbellbark  Kisses... 118 

Shrewsbury.................. 125 

' '       Snow ;.:....*^ 117 

;  ■      Spice..... „ lis 

Spice  Drop ...« «  124 

Sponge  for  Winter „  115 

Sponge  Ko.  1... 114 

Sponge  No.  2. .^.......,..««...... .....  115 

;  '    Sponge  No.  8........ ;............... .........  115 

;  ^   Strawberry  Sbort  Cake 119 

Variety ...« 119 

Velvet  Sponge .......  114 

^       Walnut  Wafers....... 124 

Whipped  Cream....................... 122 

White 112 

White  Prult 118 

White  UounUIn  No.  1 „ 114 

White  MonnUlh  No.  2 120 

Candy................................... 188 

Butter  Scotch...^ 186 

,        Candles  Without  Cooking 183 

Caramels,  Chocolate,  No.  1.. 183 

cairamels.  Chocolate,  No.  2 188 

Caramels,  Vanilla 183 

,       Chocolates,  Cream,  No.  1 184 

Cliooolates,  Cream,  No.  2...........  ..............  184 

wVvOailUbi  MO.  X«...................»»ti»>» ...... ........a  Aos 


PAoa 

Candy,  Oocoauut,  No.  2 186 

Lemon  Drops 186 

Mint  Drops 186 

MulasseH.. ^  i>h 

Af classes.  Peanut. „ 185 

Molasses,  Walnut 185 


Nuugat 


••«■•••■••••«•••••.•••«■••«  «•••«••«■•••■•»* 


••••  186 


Tally 185 

Taffy,  SUellbark .....  185 

Vanilla  Drops .:............  184 

Walnutsi,  Cream 184 

Canned  Blackberries .-.  178 

Currants 174 

Peaches 178 

Plums 174 

Raspberries l?f 

Strawberries 174 

Caraway  Seed  Cakes.., ; 121 

Carrot  Soup 24 

Carrots,  Stewed 79 

Carving T 

Catsup,  Tomato ..m............  188 

Tomato  (cold) 188 

Walnut 181 

Cauliflower,  Scalloped 79 

Celery  Au  Jus 80 

Stewed 80 

Root « 

Chafing  Dish  Recipes ; 157 

Calf's  IJver  and  Bacon •«m.«  168 

Cheese,  Melted 150 

Chicken,  Creamed. 158 

Eggs,  Scrambled,  m.. ^..^  188 

How  to  serve  Lobster 07 

Omelet 188 

Oyster,  Curry  of IM 

Oyster,  Fricasseed 157 

Potatoes,  Creamed.... IBS 

Sirloin  Steak 168 

To  Make  Toast .„ 157 

Tomatoes.  Fried ..;....» 169 

Welsh  Rarebit 157 

Cheese,  Calf's  Head 57 

Cottage 168 

Crackers,  Crisp 161 

Fondu — ....................  161 

OC&l  IO|JCll«»*«*««*««  ••••••••••••••*•••••••••••  ••••«•■•«••«  jwi 

noiiiiiw*«aa«« •••••■••••••  ••••«•••••••««»•••«•••■••••••••«*#«  IVL 

Toasted 168 

Uuernes,  frozen. ............... ................................  ism 

Pickled 176 

Pickled •  180 

Preserved 171 

Cherry  Jam ', ....I.... 174 

Chilli  Sauce . 180 

Chicken  and  Cream m....   40 

Chicken,  Chaud  Frold  of ......•.•m...«.m.«»....   46 

Curry 41 

Deviled............. 


■ ......—« 


INDBX 


237 


PAOB 

OblokeD,  Dressed  as  Terraplns......^^.-..............   41 

Frlcsuweed...........^ ...... .....................    42 

Totp\|^ .,.« -    40 

Pressed,  No.  1 42 

Pressed,  Ho.  2 42 

Boast 40 

Smothered 41 

Soup r. •   27 

Yankee  Stewed 40 

Chocolate    1&4 

Clitjcolate  Eclairs 119 

Chow  Chow .«  J8l 

Ohow  Chow  Toiimto 179 

C'lkiiaiuon  Cookies 129 

Itulls 98 

Citron,  PreHervcd 172 

ClaniDroth. 160 

Soup Zl 

Clams,  Roasted 88 

SoftShflL 38 

Stewed ,   38 

Cocoa.. 154 

Codfish,  a  La  Blode 81 

Scrambled 82 

\/Oiie0  ......  «•.«.•.•••......•..•...............•..........••..•...»•.•..  JiVj 

Boiled  154 

Filtered  or  Drip 353 

Cold  Slaw 79 

Cookies 12fl 

Cinnamon 128 

Cocoanut 124 

Corn,  Boiled  on  Cob 80 

Dodgers 97 

Fritters  (sreen) 83 

Gems 98 

Oyster  or  Fritter 81 

Pudding 81 

Soup 23 

To  Can 81 

Gornraeal  Gruel 1C5 

MuRlns 97 

Pone 97 

Cottage  Cheese 162 

Crab  Apples,  Preserved 172 

Crabs,  Deviled 37 

Crab  Soup 28 

Cracker  Gruel .« la's 

Crackers,  Steamed 88 

Cream  for  Fruit 136 

Cream  Puffs 117 

Cream  Short  Cake ; 193 

Cream,  Substitute  for IM 

Croquettes,  Sal nion Bi 

Lobster 37 

Beef 49 

Veal 56 

Ham ;. 59 

Potato 85 

Croutons 21 

Crullers........ laG 


Currants,  Canoed 
Spiced 


■»»>•—■■»— 


•••  •••••«  •••••••••  ••••••  m  ••••••••i 


PA«* 

.174 
...  176 


Dandelion,  Wilted ...... ...<... 8' 

Desserts,  Apple  Float lis 

Apple  Meringue IS; 

Apple  Tapioca '. ^r^ 

Apples,  Baked 13' 

Apples,  Boiled 13*1 

Apples.  Iced 131 

Blanc  Mange 183 

Blanc  Mange,  Fruit : .133 

Brown  Betty 140 

Charlotte  Russe 181 

Cream,  Chocolate  Bavarian 182 

Coffee  Bavarian  181 

French 181 

Hamburg..... 181 

Orange 182 

Peach  Leche 184 

Raspberry  Bavarian w.  182 

Spanish 181 

Custard,  Chocolate 134 

Cup 183 

Lemon ...^ 138 

Qnaklng 186 

Tapioca  Cream : 134 

Floating  Islands 137 

Fruit  Shortcake 188 

Gooseberry  Fool 185 

Peach  Meringue 188 

Peach  Sponge 182 

Tapioca,  Apple. 188 

DovirsFood 112 

Dominoes 124 

Doughnuts,  Breakfast ..;. 126 

Raised 126 

Drinks  for  Invalids  .......  170 

Barley  Water 170 

Cream  of  Tartar  Drink „  171 

Fever  Drink 170 

Flaxseed  Lemonade 171 

Tea »  171 

Jelly  Water 170 

Mulled  Jelly 170 

Duck  (wild)  Roasted 44 

Dutch  Ix>af  Cake 124 

Dumplings,  Apple  (Baked) «  I4f 

(Boiled) 145 

Egg, 21 

Eclairs,  Chocolate 118 

F^l8,  Fried ...    88 

Egg  Balls 22 

Kgg  Dumplings. 21 

Epg  Gruel 16fi 

Eggnog 156 

Ki^gplant,  Dutched 82 

Stuffed r 82 

1  jggS  ............  ......  .........  .m  ...  ...  w*  •>•  •••.••  .  ....  «.,«■»  •••  ,■»■■—      Q9 


288 


iNDEX» 


PAOB 


riektod 


•—»»«»—»  •««•  •••«•.•■•••• 


8hlffr«d 

*    Soft-Boiled. 


90 

•*«•  »♦»  ■  p  ■  —        ^nr 

» 


f  »<»«—»#—  •••*»•••••••••• 


iorUPlftt 


*••••«•••••••••••»•••••••••  «•« 


Vgg  TIOMt,  MOi  S^-.^^.. 


••.«•••«• 


FlmoiMl  Oakoi^  ^..•.^^... 
Foo4  «i4  tbolr  SoasoDi^ 
Food  lor  IttTftUds^.^.^..^ 

Boof  Broth  •.«>•.««•  ^ 

Boof  Bormpod.^ 

Boof  Tte. 

Boof  TnSoupi...^^. 

Blono  ICoof 0,  Irtsh  Mom. 

diiokon  Broth  ^-.^^..-^ 

Olam  Broth..^* 

CrMkorPoiuuU 


••••— ■■■■♦^^ 


*  >•»■■■>■••••' 


^  tl 
..100 

164 
IM 

164 


—  — ••  •■■»■■■ 


•*««•  •  ••  •  •••■■•  ••  •• 


»•• > •■ — > •••♦•   •«•••• 


••^•itfV  ••«•••  «•••••  ••  ••■  »•■••»»»♦•  •••••• 


»••••#••••• 


p»»«a  ••••••  •••#«■  •«•••••••■••••# 


»•••»••#••••••••»•••••••••••••«••• 


168 

IGO 
167 
166 
169 
167 
166 
168 
166 


Oruft  Ooffoo......M 

Xni,  Soft  Bollod 
Iff  Tooot..^..-^ 
Onham  Gomo*.. 
flfoooo  from  Brotho,  TO  BomoTO........ .........  166 

Oraelt  Barley.....^ 

Oommoal 

Craekor... 

Ootmool.. 
Ouloo 


•••*•••••  ••••« 


•••»• — •••••••  ■ 


««••#•••••   ••«•••    • m »•♦•• 


—•o— « 


166 
1» 
166 
lo5 
166 
165 

IMoh  Mow,  BUno  Mange. 160 

167 
167 
166 
167 
169 
169 
167 
160 


9  ••••••  ••••••  ••• 


»••#••  •«•■•■  •••••• 


■ooo •<■•■• 


••••••■»•••••••••••••  •■»••■  ••• 


••••«••••••»•••««••••••••  a^***  •••••••  • 


••*•••••••  ■•  — •>  ••••••■ 


MIlkTooat. 
Motton  Broth .. 
Oatmoal  Blano  Mango, 
Ojritor  TOast.... 

Panada^.. 

Faoada,  Craokor ...... 

\  Rlee,  Bollod..... 

Bleo  Croam... 

Bloo  Jelly ^  169 

Tiplooa  Pudding.. 169 

Toast  and  Water . 170 

Toaat  Water 167 

Voal  or  Matton  Broth  . .... ... 167 

Yogotablo  Soup 168 

Force  Meat  Balls.. ^ 22 

Foreword 8 

FroDoh  Words  Used  lu  Cooking 219 


•••«••••« ••■ 


FrloatolU 

Fritters.. 

Gom..... 

Oorman 

Moat.... 

Oyster 102 

Ftogs,  Fried 


fiO 
101 
102 
102 
102 


..•*•.....••• 


•... ..  ........•.«•...*.• 


Platai.. 
Oherklm.  Plekled 
Olngor  Cake.. 


lit 

U6 


Olngor  Boapo,  Rochootor...... 


■•••••••••« 


•  ••••••••  •  •«*••• 


»••>•—•■■« 


••••«••«■■■•  »■■■<■■ 


Graham  Ooros.. 

Qrapo  Jam ......  w..^........... 

Oroeua. .................. 

Ortddle  Cakea,  BatUrmllk 
Griddle  cakes.  Boor  Milk... 
Onlnea  Fowls.. 

Hallbttt.  Fried .... 

Halibut  Steak,  a  la  Flamando 

Ham  and  Bggs. 

Ham  Balls. .....■■. 

Croquettes  ...... ..... .. 

Mineed  with  Eggs........ 

Patties 

Boast...........*. 

Hamburger  Steak... 

Hash  on  Toast.................................... 

Uasb,  Flalu... — . . ..       ..... 

Helpful  Hints  for  the  Housekee|>ers........ . 

Ammonia ..... 

Ant  Trap,  An 

Bod  Bugs,  To  DrlTO  Away. ...... 

Boots  and  Shoes,  To  Soften  ... 

Bottles,  Packing.. 

Broom,  Tu  Keep  a....... .., 

Bruises  and  Sprains 

Bugs,  Death  to 

Carpet,  Discolored  Spots  on 

Soot  on 

*     Carpets  Bright,  To  Make......... 

Caterpillars,  Tu  Destroy. 

CeilliigM,  SinokPd 

Cement  for  Broken  China 

Cider,  To  Keep... 

Cisterns,  To  Purify ............ ....... 

Color,  To  Set  a. ....... 

Dishcloths,  To  Clean 

Disinfectant,  Simple 

Doors,  Squeaking 

Dress  Mending,  Novel 

Faded  G«>od8 

Flies  from  Injuring  Picture  Frames,  To 
Prevent 

Fruit.  Canned . 

Olass  8top|>er,  TH)  Remove  a.. 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Kid 

Grass  In  Gravel  Walk,  To  Destroy 

Ilcnn,  Koo<l  for 

Ink  Out  of  Linen,  To  Take 

Ijanip  Ciiiiiiiieys,  To  Tougiien 

Lamp  from  Smoking,  To  Prevent  a..... 


116 

7T 

161 

Itt 

44 


49 

40 
SO 


..  227 


227 


227 
231 
227 
227 


281 
281 
2Z7 
22t 


233 


223 
2ft 
230 
231 


22S 
234 
226 
226 
225 
221 
2M 


Lamps,  To  Trim 


••••••••«  ••#•••••••••••••••  •••••o  • 


INDEX. 


239 


PAdB 

liPiither.  To  Soften................. 230 

l<enioiis.  To  Keep.. .-. 223 

LiintfwaUir  and  Its  Uses. ».  230 

Matting,  To  Wash 231 

Mica,  To  «  lean 229 

MuAqiiito  Iteint'dy... 225 

.  Moths  rrtim  Furniture,  To  llemovc... 229 

Mot.h.s  in  CarpeUs .....;.............  228 

NutineK^.  To  Test... 224 

Oticlotlis.  Cleaning ^ 231 

Oilcloth,  To  Wash.- 231 

')ll  Stains  In  Silk 234 

Onions,  To  RemoTe  Odor  of 224 

faint  Brushes,  To  Keep 232 

Paint  from  Window  Glass,  To  Remove..  224 

Paste,  Paper  llnngers* 22A 

Plaster,  To  Fill  Cracks  in... 224 

Putty  from  Window   Pry-mes,  To  lie- 
move 224 

Raisins,  Before  Uegluulng  to  Seed ..^  227 

Razor  Straps...... 2S0 

Rhubarb .m.......... 228 

Rust  Out  of  Steel,  To  Take 232 

Shoes,  Waterproof. 280 

Bilks.  To  Clean  Black  Dress 234 

Sinks  and  Drains,  To  Purify 228 

Sinks,  To  Clean  Iron 227 

Starch  Polish 232 

Stove-pipes,  To  Clean. 225 

Umbrellas,  To  Preserve— 232 

Ventilate  a  Room,  To. » «  229 

Washing  Fluid 232 

Waterproof  Shoes............. 230 

Windows,  To  Wash 228 

Herring,  Pickled 83 

Hermlt.s. ^. 125 

Home  Remedies 187 

Antidotes  for  Poisons 192 

Blackberry  Cordial  for  Diarrhoea  or  Dys- 
entery  «..! 191 

Blackberry  Syrup .*......  191 

Bleeding  at  the  Mose 190 

Boils.. 190 

Bums  and  Scalds 189 

Clioking 190 

Cholera  Morbus. 190 

Cold  in  the  Head,  For 188 

Cold,  To  Prevent  Taking las 

Croup 188 

Baraohe 180 

Foreign  Body  In  Ear 180 

Foreign  Body  In  NoetrlL... 189 

Growing  Pains  Cared.. 186 

Headache,  For  Sick 187 

Ilemorrhages  of  the  Lungs  or  Stomach...  191 

Iry  Polfonlng.. 192 

PonlNee,  A.  Bread  and  Milk 187 

A  Rop.....M..».M...................M.......  187 

#HBS  worm .....  ^^...a  ^.... ......... ...... .. ......... .......  A9v 

OIiBeirteesneefl  .....MM............«iM«.................  191 

vore  AuroKvi  j?  or»... ...«». ...... ...........  .■■—».....,  191 


Tetter  or  Ringworm,  Ointment  for. 

Worms. 

Hominy. 


••■••••••< 


.191 

m 


Ice,  Apricot ISI 

Cherries,  Frozen m 

ClicicolHte  Cuxtard I6t 

Custjird,  Frozen ., „,  iw* 

Fruits,  Frozen 168 

Lemon :......... .151 

Strawberries^  Frozen KB 

Strawberry IH 

Ice  Cream,  Banana. I6t 

Cliocolate .«. 140 

CofTee 180 

Fruit «.... .' ,.  140 

Orange. 149 

Pistachio. 150 

Poor  Man's.......... 151 

Tutu,  Fnittl.. 149 

Vanilla............... 150 


Inexpensive  Drink  .. 


•••••••••  ■••••••••••••••••••••«•••••• 


155 


Jelly,  Appl^ 177 

Cider 177 

Lemon 178 

Orange 178 

Plum 178 

Jelly  Roll  Cake. 117 

Johnnie  Cake 91 

Jumbles 195 

Jumbles,  Ooooanut. 125 

Kidneys.  Stewed..............................................   50 

Kidney,  (Terrapin  Style) 50 

Kisses 118 

Kisses,  Shellbark. 118 

Kitchen  Utensils.. 221 

Koumiss,  or  Milk  Beer.............................»...  158 

ijAmo,  xresseo...... ............. .........•.•*........  ..............   ^i 

Roasts. 58 

tsteweci  iviin  reas...... .................... .........  ob 

With  Asparagus  Tops  ......... 54 

Laplanders.. m.m.m...m...   8B 

Laundry  Recipes,  Alum  in  Stareh 108 

Blankets,  To  Wa8h....................M..«..  105 

151  ueing.. ......... . ..... ...... ........................  Airo 

Flannels,  To  Wash.. 194. 

Grease  from  Cloth,  To  Bitnot...........  105 

Iron  from  Sticking,  To  Prevent  the, ..  198 
Iron  Rust,  To  Take  Out. ........ ..........  106 

^avelle  Water  for  Taking  out  Stains....  194 

Machine  Oil,  To  Take  out.......... 106 

Mildew,  To  Take  out........................  196 

Faint,  To  Take  out....... .....  196 

Rtb!>on8  and  Ties,  To  Wash  Sftiled....? »  106 
Sooreht  To  l^to  oat  ..—.....•..•«.•.«.•.•-«•  106 


240 


INDEX. 


Blvsh,  To  rr«Tent  LnmiM  In ^.^.^  19t 

VelT^t,  To  ClMB-^..... .-.....^..196 

TO  ]tMtoro^..-.^....«»M ...... .  195 

T#llow#d  Lliioii*..«.MM«.*..«MM...*.MM.....M.»  196 

I^OiOO  By*wy«»»  — — — « »»•—..« — » »«»..« ■»« »....« »»»—...» »« » .»»..«  AmO 

lAm%  Boans  (drled).^.-*^.. .m...   76 

LiTor  nnd  Baoon ............... — ..........;....  51 

liObStOr    Cf0Q110tt0SMM.M.MMMM.  MM..  M.MMM  ••.•.«».  M..M  87 

LotMtort,  To  Boil  and  Open  .....mm.....^.. S7 


Xataronit  with  Gbe69eMM......M.......MM.....M.......MM  87 

With  Tomato  8aneo^..MM.M.M. ...... ......  87 

jaasBVMii|  ••••......•.....•..•  .....«■»»■■.«■»■..».».•....«.........«  «U9 

_flU*yODIiaUv  J  WD  M.»....— ....»...........«■««..•  .....».«.....■»»»  94 

.■Moat  AooonipaDlnieutJiMMM..M........».«...M...M.... ......  62 

'KIZvUlV  IVi   wwlt  P.<  »...«»...  .........  ...  ...  ...  ...............  ......  Ikl 

Mothroomi....... mm ...... ......m....m  m.m....mmmm.m.  82 

\^inpdi».«i.. ...... ...«.......■■■  Ml. M*. »»»■..■■»..■..  V 

Pli^^y  Wm  ••  i  ..m.*.........  ...■■  ii..  ......  ..........  ■  ■  ■..  Wm 

ICnttont  Irtoh  8tow  oH  m.m....mmmm...mmm.mm........m«  5i 

J»a^Om  Ol  ... .».....»».....«..».... ........I  mi  I  ■»»  mm  01 

WOwlIOpOQ -p-j ^^ ,  p,. — Til  mm  04 

D%VWOIL.a..  ..................  «............«.»....».». ..tm  Oft 

&V  J*f  l™"T-Ttniiiiii  Tiimmm  nn»m«»«»Mt ■■««■■■»»■■■  09 


,Koo4lM 
MMgat 


...    21 


.•..«.  .....«»......»»««MM....i»«i.»»t»«>.«.»#nm«..... 

M.........*     .  .  ...».«  ..  ............MM  ...  »....».....■»■■  ■  I.  ......      lOO 


»»»M»mf»»f»»  »««>» .....................    100 

78 


Oatmeal  GraeI.M.M... 

.  *wwmi...«.«....»...». .........»».»». ........................  yx 

,  \/ll»wWw.^ >....♦♦..»».».......................■  ........  ..... .  mm 

X  1W1vI1m.........«i  Ml.  «».«.•....«»«.».....«........ .......  wc 

Ham,  ToDfue,  Chicken  or  Jolly;....^ 61 

Flaln«......MM....MM....M.  ..M.M.M...... 91 

.  JHOO>..».i  wi ».»»».  M.... »».....—»...•»».«« ■■ ». .....  1  .....  U 

Wyan  19  P..  ».#»....«»....«■■»  Ml  .•.»»«..»»MM.».....»........  89 

tFBlOO  VI  UO|iM •••.*•  »«f ..«••.... »f.«.« ...... ......  ..........CM*......  199 

CrBlwU  POWyM*.***** ■»»•«» »*»—•« »»»!... ».........«»».. ...............  otI 

,^            Jrn9Q«.....M.t  •••••••»  «■..•.*.*.....■•.............(•..•...•.  93 

J               _    _    A  10KlVCIr».«>....f.>.*...««aM.>». a....................... ......  19U 

'    8tewed....JM. M M M..  88 

Oyitarti  Broiled  .....MM .m.......»...mm....m«....m  35 

Fried  ...M..... 

Fritter.  M..M. 
Maoaroni....M...... 

Bonp...... M ■ta........MM.,.«M.  25 

Jn[^CMeB>aM»«a....ap......aMM.«.*»MM...*.M..>......M  36 

BOsWVl  vO  XO™. «.»... ..  ......  ...  M*  »»  »....«•  »»  »  ...... ...  9D 

Bealloped. m. .......m...mm 16 

Btewed 


■  ....•a.......       .....•..........•••..« 


...  ia  MM... ■  «■■■.!.. ......  .....a. It. ....... 


Panter  House  Rolls. .....m............ 

f^zsolps,  irith  Cream  Sauce 
faalry,  Bamakins.. 
F8B8|ies,  Canned 
fiaahee,  Spiced. 
Fears,  Canned 
UMi  •raea. 
Wseamu  Mo.  1..^ 


'.....a...........  ....... 

....••.  ...M»«».aaia  ......  ...... 

a.,  a.....  ......  a..  ...  ......  99  .  ......  ......  ... 

a.  a  «...•  a.  •.  .................  .a  ..•...•  a  a.  ■• 

»..•....«•■•........•  ......la  ••...•«.«.•....•..  a.. 


95 
84 

.m16S 

ITS 

a  176 

174 


a  a  .  ......  a.  •  a.....  a.  ....•••  .......aa......  .a....  ..' 

..............^.Ma  «......>.. .»>M.»  ......       Ol 

.«.  180 


PiccainU  Mo.  8....M.^M. 
Pickled  Cabhage.MM.M..M 

Oherries....M ...... 

Oherklns.M 

Dillons... 


a.ii  «!....■...« 


raoi 

186 

....  182 
180 


•••••••••«•••••••••••••••■•••• 


p— ••  •••••  •  •«  •  •••••• 


Walnuto 181 

Apple  Custard  No.  L. .  106 

Apple  Custard  No.  2... .......mm...... ......  »mm  105 

Apricot. MM M M........  106 

wllvvW   \>vUkv •«•••••••••••••••••■••••••••«•»••••■•««••■•••  •••■■•     llif 

^/llVa  rjT  •  ••••••••••••••••«••••  «••••••••••••••*•■•■•••••«•••••••••••    AUv 

\^UVflV*wMp  ••••••  ••••••  ••  •■«»••••••»••••••«•••••••••••«•••••••••■    JUw 

Chocolate  Custard.. M m...........*..  ...m ........  106 

Coooanut  Custard mm....mm.mmm 106 

Cranberry MMMa...M... . 106 

^/A JaD DOi  1^  XlvAv»»**«*»*«»»«**« •••••••••••••«•••  •«••••  •••••   JOB 

vrvw81l»*a  ••••»•■«••••••••••••«••«  ••••••••••••••••••  ••»••••••••«••«   a^^v 

OaVwIU  A  PKCili  »»>•♦—•*»«»—•»•■■>»—■■»—>♦♦  ••••••••••»«••   2IW 

^/Usu^ru  •••••••••«••••«••«••••••••••••••»••••*•••••  #•••  ••••••••  At^v 

Lemon.M.....MM.................MMM.........M...MM..M...  107 

Lemon  Custard mm...mm».....mm....mm....m.  107 

Halboro .....mmm 100 

HAlUCv   HftCttv*  •••—•»•>••— •••^••—•♦•♦•99— <■»»»—■»■«<— ♦   1  lU 

Mook  Mi  1106  MoAt •••••••  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••«••••«•  110 

Peaoh  (Dried)  PlorendlneSa...MMM.....M. I08 

Pie  Plant m... lOO 

aUIDP  Kl  D  .......  ....  ......  ......  ..a  ..a.aa  ...  ........  .  .aaa.a  ......     ll^v 

xKice  uuBM.ro  ■».. . ...... ». ................ ... ...... ... ...... ...  iisp 

ODOO"Iiy  ♦»•.•.*•*•  ......  ...  ......  ......  .................  »a  a  ......     XIAf 

sweei  X  o wnOa ............... ................— .....m.. .....  jw 

A  IC  \jrUSt»a............M.a.».».......a..M««...anaM....M..  »....M«a    lUS 

Pliseons  or  Squabs  Brolled......M......M..M.MMM...MMM  44 

Pigeons  RoastedM...M..«....M.tM...MM...........M.......M«    44 

Jrlff  S  feet  oOUSeCL... ......... .......«....aM.»..al«aaa...«a»......       09 

Pig's  Head  Oheete m.m.m.m.....m....mm..mm.   88 

Pine  Apple,  PreserTOd........  m..........mm......«....mmm  ITS 

PiuRiSf  caDneci*......a...MM  ...........  m...*.....m...*..*..m.«  i/v 

A  01 11 PVOO   A   UPS  ».»...»........«..  ............  .aa... ......... .......««     JIU 

Pork  Chops m M.a....MM.MMM.M...   66 

ChoiM  and  Fried  Apples.MM.....MMMMM.....M.M   66 
Roast  Leg  and  Sboulder.....MM....M......M.M.M.  96 

jtOaSt  lX)in  OIm. .........«..»■ ... ................aaaai ......       09 

1  o  \jure................—***.— —..»«•« .....  .......a.......    uu 

jrorK  ano  neaoe. ...... ...........».—»—......... .a  aaa. ...... ......   77 

jrOtaioeSi  Boiieo»...............».>..».«M..M..........a..a..>«a...   9( 

\jrOQ 09*190  ..  *  ........  .......  ..........  ........  ••.......     09 

pcaiiopeo .......... » .. ....... .......... . ... ............    00 

A  OHtvO  POUp.................... ....... .............. »aa»....aa»a ......       9l 

Potpie  Crust m..m...mm..m..m...mm....m.m  m.m  110 

jtOUKry,  1*0  oiean. ... .................. ..M....................... .  sv 

XO  MK I H  ...  .  »  ...».»  ...  ■§  M  i  ■  ......  ......  ......  .........  ......      Mf 

1  O  P9ieCfc...«.......................M»a..>.a.a.t.ia.«aaa.       W 

Pound  Cake m  ....  m..m.............mm.. 114 

jr reparcu  f lour ............. ...... .m... ....m ...m. m.... ..•••*  j^d 

irroservos,  (/iiori'y ......  a........... ...... ..»aM.«»ia.  ..a... ......  iiz 

x/lvrOn....... ........................ M.....     t—wmtimm    m%9 

Orabapple  ...^m*—.w..iM...MMM— 


ta 


PInMppto ITS 

Qulnoec 178 

Toinftlues  (Greeu) 172 

Tomatoes 176 

WaUrraeloii 172 

Faiilogt  Cold,  Br«ad  and  Butter 135 

Bread,  Sugarless UO 

Bird*s  Nest 185 

Clierrr 140 

Gbooolate 133 

OotUte 139 

Dandy 134 

Dried  Currant 139 

OraDge 13g 

Plum 139 

Pluin,  without  Eggs 139 

Rlee 189 

Sponge 140 

Taplooa 136 

Willow  Olen 134 

■6t,  Apple  Roley  Poley 147 

Batter.  Boiled 146 

Birds*  Nest 146 

Bread 146 

Fruit 146 

Hasty 148 

Lemon,  Baked 147 

Marlboro 

Peach  Cobbler 146 

Peach  (Dried) 148 

Peach,  Pear  and  Apple 148 

Popovers 146 

Balsln 147 

Rlmbarb 147 

PiimpklnPIe 106 

QoallOD  Toast 45 

Quince  Honey 175 

Oulnoee.  Preserved m 

Kabblt,  Broiled 45 

Fried 45 

Rarebit,  Scotch 162 

Welsh    161 

Raspberries  Canned 178 

Raspberry  Vinegar 155 

Rolu,  Cinnamon 99 

Vienna. 99 

Rusk 99 

Dressing,  Cold  Slaw 70 

Mayonnaise 60 

Plain  Freueh 70 

69 

Asparagus ,V. '..!*. ". '. \\V. \V,\\y/.\\',lV.V.\\\\  71 

Cabbage  and  Celery 74 

Oaullflower 71 

Celery 70 

Chicken 71 

Crab 73 

Ououmber. 78 

Bgg^ 71 

nam 74 

Lettnee 71 

Lobster 73 

Oyster  Crab 72 

Oyst«r 72 

Potato 70 

Red  Vegetable 70 

Salmon 72 

Sardine,  No.  1 72 

Sardine,  No.8 73 

Sweet  PoUto 73 

Tomato 74 

Veal 72 

Watercress 71 

Sally  Lnnn,  No.1 98 

Sally  Lann«No.2 US 

Salmon  Coquettes 32 

Soup 83 

With  Caper  Bance 38 

Salsify  Cakes SI 

Saooe  for  Pancakes 101 

SSBces  and  Dressings,  Meal  and  Fish. 

ficown*  ••••••••  ••••••••••• 


Bailees  and  Dressings,  Caper 

Celery 

Cranberry 

Cream 

Currant  Jelly. < 

Curry 

Drawu  Butter. 


^ 


Sauces,  Puddlns.. 


Flour,  Browned..... 

Horse-radish 

Lobster 

Mint 

Mushroom , 

Mustard,  Prepared 

Olive 

Onion 

Oysters 

Parsley 

Shad  Roe. , 

White 

Tomato 


FAOI 

..  67 

..  67 

..  68 

..  64 

..  66 

..  66 

..  64 

..  64 

..  66 

..  64 

..  66 

..  67 

..  64 

.  60 

.  m 

.  67 


Carame 

Cream 

Dominion 

Fruit 

Gooseberry 

Hani 

Jelly 

Lemon  Cream,  Hot 

Lemon. 

Maple 


Orange  Cream,  Hot. 

Peach 

Plain 

Plum  Pudding 

Roftemout 

Sweet 

Temperance  Foam.. 

Vanfiu 

Vinegar 

Whipped  Cream 

Sauerkraut. 

Sausages  breaded 

Sausage  Fried 

Scalloped  Fish 

Scotch  Kareblt 

Sliad,  Baked 

Broiled  No.  1 

Broiled  No.  2...^. 

Roe    •  .   .•  .r...  •♦ 

Sliellbarkkisses'.'.^.*!!!.*.'.'.! 
Sherbet,  Berry 

Cherry 

Lemon.. 

Pineapple 

liaspborry 

Shirley  Sauce 

Shrimps,  Fried 

Blip. 


66 
67 
66 
66 

66 
141 
142 
144 

la 

144 

la 

14S 
lU 
142 
141 
148 
14S 

la 

141 
148 

144 

141 

144 

142 

144 

148 

t9 

60 

60 

81 

162 


82 


Hnielts,  Fried 

8ou|>s 

Beef  Tea. 

Beet 

Bouillon 

Carrot 

Chinken  Cream 

Clam  No.  1 

Clam  No.  2 

rn^ar  VeRetable 

CoiiRoumi^ 

Corn 

CrAb 

Cream  of  Asparagus. 

Cream  of  Celery 

Cream  of  Pea 

Cream  of  Potato 

Cream  of  Salsify 

Curry.. 

Freneb 

Olbleu. 


168 


24 

S7 


22 

a 

28 
25 


242 


'~'«S3^::::::;:;::"~::::::;::::::::::::;::g 

OnMr....  !..  » 

FaB,Ar*»a  at 

miMlflphtk  rartwr  Pot is 

-     FWanouomlod TZ 

Fwubl*. 2& 

Pot  »D  Fan 10 

3» 

M 

li.",'.',' "."."! ^' !.'.'"""  u 

, » 

21 

M 

1U 

u 

\VJ.\\''.'.'.'.'.'.'.^'.'.'.'.'.'.'.  m 

\'^lT^"^'.'^'.'..',','.'.'.'.'.  im 
, w 

.....  T» 

SI 

IM 

w 

, B7 

67 

ns 

!"!^III!!l!ir.!!!M^!l  iM 

IM 

m 

: lOT 

»>\ 

IM 

19T 

IM 

/.*.l"'.*ir.".*.";;  ;;!!*.!;  i«e 

; sM 

i aoi 

•■■ir-- i» 

....V^.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.m 

W) 

, ano 

aoi 

»o 

• am 

aoj 


Hklr.  ThsCkraortbt Iff 

H&lr  Wuh m 

Hiiii<l*,TlwO>»oIUw IM 

N«lli,  iDiTuwIng M 

(Wrmeal  Wub I» 

HHIU  Nl0«,T(iKe«p  tb« Kt 

Spimss.TD  Cleaoaea an 

"mtb,  Tta* in 

Toinata  CtiMip. Ill 

C*t*iip  (eold) Ut 

ciiDiK  cbow in 

(QrMn)  Flckla m 

Sftusfl in 

—up tl 

Bnkad M 

n  In  OrMin M 

Curried If 

Fried M 

{QrMn}  PrM«rv«d in 

FTMcrved in 

Kaw ™ II 

Bcallapad.. M 

Tnn  sue.  Boiled. M 

Tripe If 

Trip*,  BouMd • 

Turlwt.  Baked t) 

Turkey.  Fried M 

Bneatt M 

acallnp a 

Tumlpt.  Dolled n 

With  Cream  Mum IT 

tJleuelle,  Ellehen St 

Veal  Crogaettes H 

CuUeU,  Breaded U 

Frloneteed tb 

Loaf M 

Pnlnie W 

Roiut,  Fillet U 

Ituaat  Lolnof U 

Bnup St 

TeoUoii,  Roait  Hauucb  ot M 

■Mak M 

TlenDkBolli • W 

Vinegar,  Raipben? lU 

Wafflet.Qalek 100 

wainatcaririip"";;;!*;;ir.;;mv.";""*"".'."  m 

WalDule,  Plekled in 

Water  Melon.  Preaarred in 

Welshteaiid  HeMurei US 

Walih  Rarehll 1« 

White  Plah,  Broiled H 

Vl*tille  Pnddlnn ■ BI 

^■■saiii:::::;;::;:::::;:::-::::;:;":"::;::? 


;^ 


1^  iua^  ^fi"  ^t"  A/^/m****- 


•\-*'    -^^v 


^tAAXhOi/yVUi 


■t 


•t 


.» 


iii. 


>:^.i'^-< . 


•»'-. 


■'1 


^■■'•v-.  ^ 


•»  ■^.' 


3L  »xtM>^ 


I 


I 


^«&rnBl 


•^ 


^^JP 


\ 


•^.y 


../ 


l* 


.'i-.' 


% 


« 


^ 


* 


JkketpiBiXS^     6aA^ 


•  » -» 


^^  1  .       1  *     '   ^  ** 


V 


■'-'*. 


— 


A*v6-   l&tAJi.  juJi^  -frTot/a^T-i. 


«/«.     ^UW     Mifi      M^^HsSb^^     4A^M^€4t,    jU^^JU. 

^yC-oM^    i-^XZst'    d/KAy^    ^fyt^  jdi^kjCtf 


\ 


*<    "  .'.  •. 


\fit4^^.aA 


•^/-jn^^  ^^"^^^ 


^  A 


\b<v 


t>KJLyX 


5^    c^i^r 


•ji 


J€iuO^BbL^JLo^yH/ui^  CclK^  ;fiimJu4, 


f^Cnf^    -      ^     -  ^- 


•  '« 


I 


^U^^t 


BILLS  . 


9    9    OF    •    • 


FARE 


FOR 


All  Seasons  of  ac  Year 


z^x 


...INCLUDING... 


T^hanksgivmg  and  Christmas  Dinners 


•  ••01  ••• 


Marion  Harland 


"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends ;  we  may  live  without  books ; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 
He  may  live  without  books — what  is  knowledge  but  jrievin|^? 
He  may  live  without  hope — what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love — what  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  l^^^**  without  dining?'' 


Copyrighted  1896 

BY 

L.  M.  Palmer 


INTRODUCTORY  TO  MENUS. 

IN  the  preparation  of  this  series  of  bill-of-fare  for  family  use  I 
have  sought  to  accomplish  three  things : 
First  and  chiefly — To  be  practical. 
Secondly — To  express  my  meaning  clearly  and  fully. 

Thirdly — To  adapt  menu  and  recipes  to  the  service  of  people  of 
moderate  means. 

"  How  do  you  make  your  delicious  chicken  salad?"  asked  one 
housekeeper  of  another,  in  the  day  when  the  dish  was  comparatively 
new. 

"  Oh,  I  put  iu  all  the  good  things  I  can  think  of,  and  when  it 
tastes  just  right,  I  stop,"  was  the  satisfactory  reply. 

Too  many  recipes,  furnished  by  practical  cooks,  and  printed  for 
the  use  of  the  inexperienced,  are  constructed  on  this  principle,  and 
presuppose  skill  and  judgment  In  the  tyro.  Almost  as  serious  is 
the  blunder  of  yielding  to  the  temptation  to  write  out  showy  lists 
of  dishes  as  model  meals,  for  the  reader  whose  income  is  not  above 
the  average  of  that  of  the  young  merchant,  or  professional  man. 
The  true  cook  has,  in  her  modest  sphere,  such  pleasure  in  recipe- 
making  as  the  musician  or  poet  has  in  composition.  All  three  fail 
of  popularity  when  they  discourage,  instead  of  animating  those  they 
would  instruct.  The  teacher's  province  is  not  to  display  his  own 
proficiency,  but  to  develop  the  pupil's  powers. 


prepared  for  milUcmaires*  wives.  Our  prudent  manager  knows  as 
well  as  does  her  woald-be  mentor,  that  few  families,  even  among 
her  wealthy  neighbors,  sit  down  daily  to  breakfast-tables  spread  as 
lavishly  as  the  imaginary  board  above  sketched.  To  discourage- 
ment is  added  contempt  for  the  printed  guide  that  would  assert  the 
'contrary  to  be  the  rule, 

A  clever  little  woman  who  has  a  positive  genius  for  cookery, 
threw  up  her  hands  tragically  when  I  recommended  as  easily-made 
and  cheap  the  oyster-bisque,  directions  for  which  will  be  found 
hereafter. 

"I  have  a  redpe  for  oyster-bisque,  thank  you!    It  calls  for 

sixteen  ingredients.    I  counted  them.     One  of  them  is  a  quart  of 

cream.    I  could  not  put  that  soup  into  my  tureen  for  less  than  f  1.50, 

at  computing  time  and  labor.     I  do  not  believe  in  fifty-cent  dinners 

ir  six  people,  but  we  can't  aflford  five-dollar  feasts  for  every  day." 

A  novice  brought  to  me  once,  an  article  clipped  from  a  favorite 

eekly,  in  which  minute  instructions  were  given,  dialogically,  for 

the,  manufacture  of  meat  dumplings.    The  tale — as  a  tale — hung 

well  together.    But  the  meat  never  went  into  the  pastry.    Why 

;  and  how  they  were  kept  apart  was  a  worse  quandary  than  the 

King's  enigma  as  to  how  the  apple  got  into  his  dumpling. 

With  this  prefatory,  and  I  trust,  not  tedious  laying  of  the  cloth, 
we  wUl  proceed  to  business. 


UNINVITBD  QUBST8. 


Spring  Bills  of  Fare. 

No.  I. 

BREAKFAST. 

Coarse  Hommy. 

Potato  Rolls.  Fried  Pigs'  Feet, 

Buttered  Toast  Cold  Bread. 

Frnit. 
Tea.  Cc 

COARSB  HomNT. 
This  is  otherwise  known  as  cracked  com.    Wash  it  well  and 
set  it  to  soak  over  night.    In  the  morning,  drain  and  cook  soft  in 
boiling  water,  salted.    Kat  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  cream  only. 

Potato  Roi,i^. 
One  cup  of  potato,  mashed  or  whipped,  until  smooth  and  light, 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  lukewarm  milk ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  one  scant  cup  of  flour ;  one-half  yeast 
cake — dissolved  in  warm  water;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt — an  even 
one ;  mix  these  together,  using  but  half  the  flour  over  night,  and 


nXS  OP  PAUL 

^e  momitig,  work  in  the  rest  of  ths 

t  it  rise  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  mold 

1  brisk,  hard  kneading,  set  in  a  pan 

,x  half  an  hoar  before  baking.    Send 


hot  to  the  table. 


Fried  Pigs'  Febt,  Breaded. 
Buy  the  pigs'  feet  ready  pickled  from  your  butcher.  If  they 
have  only  been  kept  in  brine,  soak  three  hours  and  boil  nntil 
tender.  While  hot,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  in  which  you  have 
pnt  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  half  a  dozen  whole  black  p^per- 
coms  for  each  cnpfiil  of  vinegar.  Do  this  the  day  before  yon  cook 
them  for  breakfast  Before  fiying,  wipe  each  piece  well,  roll  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  cook  in  plenty  of  cleared 
dripping  or  lard.    Drain  off  the  fat,  and  send  to  the  table  hot 

BDTTMtBD  Toast. 
Slice  the  bread  nearly  an  inch  thick,  pare  off  the  cnut,  and 
toast  quickly  over  a  clear  fire,  buttering  each  piece  lightly  as  you 
take  it  &om  the  toaster.  Lay  in  a  hot  dish  until  all  are  done.  As 
soon  as  the  last  slice  comes  from  the  fire,  send  all  to  the  table, 
Should  a  comer  scorch,  scrape  before  you  butter  it  The  whole 
sttriace  should  be  of  a  light  yellow  brown. 


LUNCHEON. 

Roe  Omelettet 
Browa  Bread.  Stewed  Potatoes. 

Crackers  and  Cheese. 
Coke  and  Marmalade.  Oiocoli^e, 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  H9 

RoK  Omelbttb. 

Boil  the  roe  of  the  shad  you  are  to  bake  for  dinner  in  hot  watei;  [ 
with  a  little  salt,  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  it  out  and  plunge  intt 
ice-cold  water  until  cold  and  firm.  Wipe,  and  break  into  a 
granulated  mass,  removing  all  the  skin  and  strings.  Mix  this  with 
,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and 
season  cautiously  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Have  ready  in  a 
saucepan  half  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter.  Beat  the  roe  into  it,  and 
set  in  boiling  water  while  you  make  an  omelette  of  six  eggs 
whipped  light,  whites  and  yolks  together.  Add  a  little  salt,  pour 
the  eggs  into  a  frying-pan  where  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  is 
simmering ;  shake  steadily  until  the  omelette  thickens,  spread  the 
roe  mixture  on  half  of  it,  double  the  other  part  over  it,  and  turn 
out  dexterously  on  a  hot  dish.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


Steamed  Brown  BrbaId. 

One  cup  of  rye  meal  (not  flour) ;  one  cup  of  Indian  meal ;  half 
a  cup  of  Graham  flour ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  half  a  cup  of  molasses, 
(syrup  will  not  do) ;  one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of 
soda.  Sift  flour,  meal,  salt  and  soda  twice  together  to  mix  all  well. 
Add  the  molasses  to  the  milk,  and  work  into  the  flour ;  knead  for 
five  minutes,  turn  into  a  greased  mold  and  steam  for  three  hours, 
'^t  hot ;  but  it  is  also  good  when  cold. 


Stewed  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  in  small  square  bits,  dropping  these  in  cold  water  us 
you  go  on.  Cook  tender  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Turn  off  half  of  this 
when  they  are  nearly  done,  and  replace  with  a  like  quantity  of  hot 


ING  BIIXS  OP  PARK 

a  dissolved  a  tablespoonfhl  of  Iratter  cnt  up 
e  Or  four  minutes,  pepper,  salt,  and  stir  in  0 
at  parsley.    Boil  up  and  dish. 


Chocowtb. 
Six  tablespoonfiils  of  chocolate  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold  watw. 
One  quart  of  milk.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  farina  kettle,  stir  in  the 
'  chocolate  paste  and  boil  five  minutes.  Draw  the  kettle  to  the  front 
of  the  range,  and  with  a  clean  Dover  egg-beater,  whip  the  hot 
diocolate  one  minute  before  pouring  into  the  pot  in  which  it  is  to 
go  to  th«  Uble.    Sweeten  in  the  cnps. 


Pnrfie  Mmgre. 

Baked  Shad  and  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Btefirteak  with  Sheiry  Sauce.  Spinach  au  natttnL 

Snet  and  Sago  Puddingy 

Neapolitan  Sauce. 

PlRDti  Co&e* 

POKBS  MaIGRB. 

tuniip ;  one  carrot ;  half  an  onion ;  one  tablespoonful  ol 
cabbage ;  half  a  can  of  tomatoes;  half  a  cup  of  raw  rice: 
cdety,  chopped ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  cut  up  iu 
prepared  flour ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley ; 
1  of  cold  water;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  one  teaspoonfol 
■ ;  one  cup  of  milk. 

and  grate  turnip  and  carrot.  Peel,  and  slice  the  onion,  and 
Lt  with  the  cabbage  tax  twenty  minutes,  throwing  the 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  a 5' 

Water  away.  Soak  the  rice  for  two  hours.  Put  all  the  vegetables 
except  the  tomatoes,  with  the  rice  and  cold  water,  into  the  soup 
kettle ;  cover  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour  after  the  boil  is  reached, 
Add  the  tomatoes,  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and  run  through  a 
colander.  Return  to  the  fire,  stir  to  a  boil,  add  the  floured  butter, 
boil  up  a  little  faster  and  stir  in  the  milk,  scalding  hot.  Season  r 
and  pour  out.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  pur6e  "  catch  "  in  cooking. 
(Put  a  tiny  bit  of  soda  in  the  milk.) 


Baked  Shad. 

Wash  and  wipe  a  fine  roe-shad,  inside  and  out.  Have  ready  a 
forcemeat  of  crumbs,  a  very  little  minced  fat  salt  pork,  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  and  one  of  minced  parsley,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Sew  this  up  in  the  fish,  lay  the  latter  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  over  it 
a  cup  of  boiling. water,  and  bake  for  one  hour,  at  least,  covered. 
Baste  five  times  with  butter-and-water,  while  baking.  Transfer  the 
shad  to  a  hot-water  dish ;  make  the  gravy  by  stirring  into  the 
liquor  left  in  the  pan  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tkblespoonful  of 
browned  flour  wet  up  with  cold  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Boil  up  sharply,  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  gravy-boat.  Garnish 
the  shad  with  slices  of  lemon,  on  each  of  which  is  laid  a  little  finely 
bruised  parsley.    Send  mashed  potato  around  with  it* 


Beefsteak  with  Sherry  Satcs. 

Broil  the  steak  in  the  usual  way,  lay  it  within  the  chafing  dish, 
and  cover  it  with  the  sauce,  after  which  put  on  the  top  of  the  dish 
and  let  the  steak  stand  five  minutes  before  it  is  senrod. 


pf 


>RiUG  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

Sauce. 

ny ;  juice  of  lialf  a  lemon ;  one  tablespoonfnl  of 
onsful  of  butter  cut  up  in  one  teaspoonful  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt :  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of 
r,  catsup,  and  lemon  juice  in  a  saucepan,  add 
boil  up  quickly,  and  pour  upon  the  steak. 


SnNACH  au  naturet. 

Wasb,  pick  off  the  leaves,  rqecting  the  stems,  and  put  over  the 
fire  in  just  enough  boiling,  salted,  water  to  cover  it  well.  Cook  fast 
for  twenty  minutes,  turn  into  a  hot  colander,  and  let  it  drain  into  a 
vessel  set  on  the  range  until  all  the  water  has  run  off.  Stir 
into  it  quickly  a  tablespoonfnl  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
press  firmly  to  get  the  shape  of  the, colander  on  the  under  ^ide  of 
the  mass,  and  invert  upon  a  hot  platter.  Lay  hard  boiled  eggs 
sliced  about  the  basew    Serve  veiy  hot 


SuBT  AND  Sago  Pcddino. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  soaked  for  four  hours  hi  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  it ;  a  generous  half  cup  of  powdered  suet ;  one  cup 
of  fine  dried  crumbs ;  one  cup  of  milk  and  a  tiny  bit  of  soda ;  one 
cup  of  sugar;  four  eggs ;  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with 
milk;  one  even  cup  of  Sultana,  raisins;  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
■alt 

When  the  sago  has  soaked  for  the  rajnired  time,  stir  it  into 
the  heated  milk,  and  bring  almost  to  a  boil  before  adding  the 
required  crumbs.  Pour  this  on  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  beat 
«ne  minute,  and  add  suet,  sago,  corn-starch  and  salt     Butter  a 


8I>R1NG  BILLS  OF  PARE.  t53 

straigHt-sided  mold|  and  strew  witli  raisins  carefully  washed,  dried 
and  rolled  in  flour.  Put  in  the  batter  carefullyi  a  little  at  a  time^ 
not  to  wash  the  raisins  to  the  top.  Steam  two  hours.  Dip  in  cold 
water  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platten 


Neapoutan  Saucb.  , 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  red  currant  jelly ;  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Warm  the  butter  slightly,  and  stir  with  the  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Divide  into  two  parts,  whip  the  lemon  juice  into  one,  the  jelly  into 
the  othen  Wet  a  bowl  and  fill  with  alternate  strata  of  white  and 
pink  sauce.  Let  it  cool  on  the  ice,  and  when  hard  pass  a  knife 
close  to  the  sides  of  the  bowl  to  loosen  it.  Send  to  table  on  a  cold 
salver* 


No.  8. 
BRBAiO'ASTi 

Wheat  Germ  Meal  Porridge.  Ragout  of  lavetM 

Egg  Biscuit.  Watercresses. 

Strawberries.  Tea.  Co£^ 


Wheat  Germ  Meal  Porridgb. 

This  excellent  breakfast  cereal  is  particularly  good  when  boiled 
in  milk-and-water  in  equal  quantifies.  Wet  up  a  cupful  of  the 
**  germ  meal "  in  cold  water  to  a  thick  mush,  thin  to  gruel-like 
consistency  with  hot  milk,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  farina 
kettle,  after  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  reaches  a  boil.  Salt  to 
laste  and  eat  with  cream. 


t 


:.LS  OF  FARB.  . 

OP  Liver. 

of  nice  drippiia;  in  a.  frying-pan,  sM. 

of  chopped  parsley,  and  thrice  as 

rhen  all  are  hissing  hot,  lay  in  the 

wide  as  your  middle  finger  and  fry 

It  the  liver  and  keep  warm  in  a, 

he  gravy,  rinse  out  the  fiying-pon, 

ravy,  and  an  even  tablespoonfiil  of 

of  browned  flour.    Stir  imtil.  yon 

Lin  gradually  with  half  a  cupful  of 

uuuiug  wiikci  »uu  LUC  JU1L.-C:  w  iialf  a  lemon;  add  a  teaspoonfnl  of 

minced  pickle  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  wet 

with  cold  water.    Boil  sharply,  pour  over  the  liver,  put  fresh  boiling 

water  in  the  pan  imder  the  dish,  and  let  all  stand  closely  covered 

iisr  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

Egg  fiiscTJiT. 
Vo'cups  of  warm  milk;  two  eggs;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
Met',  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  warm 
:;  one,quart  of  sifted  flour;  one  teaspoonfnl  of  salt, 
[ix  with  the  butter  (melted,  but  not  hot)  the  yeast,  salt  and 
:  cups  of  flour  together  over  night,  and  set  in  a  covered  bowl  to 
Early  in  the  morning,  add  the  ^eaten  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the 
,  and  set  for  a  second  rising  of  an  hour,  or  longer.  When 
,  roll  into  a  sheet  almost  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes, 
ay  in  a  floured  baking  pan.  At  the  end  of  half  an  hour,  bake 
good  oven.    They  are  delicious,  cold  or  hot. 


Watercresses.  ' 
Wash  well,  pick  off  decayed  leaves,  and  leave  in  Ice-wattr  until 
are  ready  to  eat  them.    They  should  then  be  shaken  '■a*  *^ 


8PRIN0  BIIXS'OP  PARE.  255 

wet,  and  piled  lightly  in  a  glass  dish.     Eat  -mih.  salt     l!liey  are  a 
piquant  appetizer  on  sultry  mornings,  and  very  wholesome. 


Strawberries. 

Do  not  ruin  the  flavor  by  washing  them,  nor  wither  them  and 
sap  their  sweetness  by  laying  them  in  sugar.  "  Cap  "  with  cool, 
light  fingers,  heap  in  a  bowl,  and  sprinkle  sugar  on  them  after  they 
are  served  in  the  saucers  to  waiting  eaters  expectant.  The  larger 
varieties  of  strawberries  are  best  served  with  caps  and  stems  on. 
The  eater  uses  the  latter  as  handles,  and  dips  the  berries  into  dry 
sugar,  one  by  one.  This  is  the  prettiest  way  of  eating  breakfast 
strawberries. 


LUNCHEON. 

Clam  Scallops.  Deviled  Tongue. 

Stewed  Potatoes. 

Radishes.  Crackers  and  Cheese.  Tea  and  Cake. 


Clam  Scalwps. 

Chop  50  clams  fine,  and  drain  off  through  a  colander  all  the 
liquor  that  will  come  away.  Mix  this  in  a  bowl  with  a  cupful  of 
crushed  crackers,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  mac^ 
and  the  same  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  into  this  the  chopped  dams, 
and  fill  with  the  mixture,  clam  shells,  or  the  silver  or  stone-china 
shell-shaped  dishes  sold  for  this  purpose.  Bake  to  a  light  brown 
in  a  qtiick  oven,  and  serve  in  the  shells,  ^tend  around  «lioed 
lemon  with  thesa. 


BnxS  OP  PAILB. 

TILBD  ToHomt 

lie  (fresh  or  smoked)  and  fry  the  slices 
qnicKiy  m  nice  oni^mg.  If  you  have  none,  use  butter.  Chop  a 
Tittle  onion  fine  and  stir  in  before  the  tongue  is  fried.  Take  up  the 
slices,  arrange  neatly,  overlapping  one  another,  in  a  hot-water  dish. 
Strain  the  fat,  return  to  the  fire,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  browned 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of 
cayenne,  ^d  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Stir,  and  boil  for 
one  minute,  and  poor  over  the  tongue. 

Radishbs. 
Cut  down  the  tops  to  within  an  inch  of  the  roots.     Wash, 
scnpe  off  the  fibers,  and  arrange  tastefully  on  a  dish  with  bits  of 
.  ibe  between  them. 

DINNER. 

Browned  Potato  Soup, 

Shad  Baked  with  Wine  Sauce.  Larded  tfig  of  Mutton. 

'  Green  Peaa. 

Stewed  Macaroni  Strawberry  Shortca^ 

Coffee. 

Brown  Potato  Sotjp. 

A  dozen  potatoes  of  fair  size ;  half  an  onion,  sliced ;  two  quarts 

sf  boiling  water ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley ;  two  eggs, 

beaten  light ;  half  a  cup  of  milk ;  pepper,  salt  and  cleared  dripping 

for  flying ;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  heat  the  dripping  in  a  round- 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  257 

bottomed  saucepan  and  fry  the  potatoes  (peeled  carefully  so  as  to 
leave  all  tht  staiTcH  in  them,  then  left  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour) 
and  onion  to  a  fine  brown ;  drain,  drop  them  in  the  boiling  water, 
and  cook  soft.  Rub  through  the  colander  back  into  the  kettle  with 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled ;  add  the  parsley,  stir  to  a  bub- 
bling boil,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Heat  the  milk  in 
another  saucepan,  melt  the  butter  in  it,  add  the  eggs,  stir  one 
minute;  take  the  soup-kettle  from  the  fire,  pour  in  the  milk  and 
eggs,  and  serve  At  once.  If  the  potatoes  do  not  thicken  the  water 
to  a  pur6e,  roll  the  butter  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  directly 
into  the  soup  kettle  instead  of  into  the  milk* 


Shad  Baked  with  Worn  Saucb. 

Clean,  without  splitting  the  fish,  leaving  on  the  head  and  tail 
Lay  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  a  small  cupful  of  boiling  witter  over  it, 
invert  another  dripping  pan  upon  the  lower,  and  bake  one  hour, 
basting  six  times  with  butter  and  water  from  the  dripping  pan. 
Transfer  the  fish  to  a  hot  platter ;  strain  the  gravy  into  a  saucepan  j 
thicken  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  at  the  last  a  glass  of  brown  sheny.  Pour 
over  the  fish,  and  send  to  table  covered. 


Lardbd  Lbg  op  Mutton. 

Cut  half-inch  wide  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  into  lengths  of  four 
inches.  With  a  narrow-bladed  knife,  make  horizontal  incisions  in 
the  meat  to  the  bone,  and,  where  this  does  not  oppose  the  bladej 
dear  through  the  joint.  Roll  these  "  lardoons  "  in  a  mixture  of 
pepper,  mace  and  vinegar,  and  insert  in  the  holes  made  by  the  knife. 
If  you  have  a  larding  needle,  the  task  is  easier.    Set  the  meat  in  • 


BILLS  OF  FARB. 

if  boiling  water  over  it,  and  ttMst  ten 
minutes  for  each  pound,  basting  often.  Ten  minntes  before  taking 
it  up,  rub  over  with  a  mixture  of  a  teaspoouful  of  butter  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  tart  jelly.  Strain  the  gravy,  pour  off  the  &t, 
•nd  thicken  what  is  left  with  browned  flour,  season  with  salt  and 
,  p^per,  boil  uj^  and  serve  in  a  boat  / 


Gkbbh  Pras. 
Bcnl  tibe  pods  fifteen  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water ;  strain 
them  out,  drop  in  the  peas,  and  cook  tender,  bat  not  nntH  they 
brealc.    Drain  diy ;  stir  in  salt,  pepper,  and  a  good  Inmp  of  batter. 
Serve  hot 

Stswsd  Macaronl 

Half  a  poond  of  "pipe"  or  "straw**  macaroni;  onecnp  of 

milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion;  one  tablespoonful  of  bnt< 

ter ;  half  a  cupful  of  4^eese ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  bit  of 

iioda  in  the  milk ;  break  the  macaroni  into  short  pieces,  and  cook 

nty  minutes  in  boiling  water,  salted.    Meanwhile,  heat 

[dropping  in  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda),  with  the  onion  to  the 

point    Strain  out  the  onion,  drain  the  water  from  the 

and  put  the  milk  into  a  sauce-pan.    Stir  in  the  butter, 

pper  and  salt,  finally,  Uie  macaroni    Cook  three  minutes, 

into  a  deep  dish. 

Strawberry  Shortcaks, 
One  cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  one  tablespoon^  of  batttr ,        ^ 
tggs ;  one  rounded  cup  of  prepared  flour ;  t*""  *\blespoonf^  ef 
cream  i  one  generous  quart  oC  berries. 


SPRING.  BILLS  OF  FARE.  259 

Rub  the  batter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  whip  in  the  beaten  yoIlBii 
(be  creanii  the  whites^  at  last,  the  flour.  Bake  in  three  jelly  cake 
dns  and  let  the  cakes  get  cold.  Cut  the  berries  into  halves,  and  lay 
between  thenii  sprinkling  the  strata  with  sugar.  Sift  sugar  on  ibm 
topmost  layer*    Slice  and  eat  with  creanu 


Ko.  3. 
BREAKFAST. 

Brewis.  Commeal  Dodgers. 

Deviled  Beef  in  Batter. 
Cold  Bread.  '  Browned  Potatoes 

Fruit.  Tea.  Coffee. 


t       Brewis. 

One  even  cnp'f  dried  bread  crumbs;  ajmitofipllk;  aquaster- 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ^butter. 

Save  crusts  and  broken  slices  from  day  to  day.  When  you  go 
to  bed|  the  night  before  you  wish  to  make  brewis,  spread  these  bits 
in  a  dripping-pan  and  set  in  the  cooling  oven  to  dry.  Take  them 
out  in  the  morning,  and  crush  with  the  rolling  pin  into  rather 

* 

coarse  crumbs.  Heat  the  milk,  salt  it,  and  when  it  boils,  stir  in 
the  crumbs  gradually  until  you  have  granulated  mush.  It  should 
not  get  sti£  Now,  put  in  the  butter,  stir  and  beat  until  hot,  and 
serve  in  an  open  dish.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cteanL 


OORNMBAL  DODGXES. 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal;  one  quart  of  boiHag  mHk; 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  half  a  veast  cake,  dissolved  in  warm  walmr} 


.  SPRING  BUXS  OF  FARE. 

ifal  of  Urd  and  the  same  of  bntter;   one  even 

salt 

jeal  with  the  milk,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  shortening, 

almost  cold,  beat  in  the  yeast.  Let  it  rise  all  night 
L  one  hour  before  breakfast,  and  set  it  for  a  second 
a.  dripping  pan,  grease  well,  and  drop  the  stiff  batter 
oonfiil.  Let  these  be  an  inch  or  two  apart,  that  they 
ito  one  another,  and  shut  up  in  a  guici  oven  to  bake, 
e  rough  on  top,  and  higher  in  the  middle  than  at 

the  batter  runs,  add  a  very  little  flour.    It  must  be 

stand  in  a  heap.    Eat  very  hot 

Dbvii,bd  Beef  in  Batter. 
>f  underdone  roast  beef,  and  lay  them  tot  an  hour  in 
lalf  a  cup  of  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonfiilj  each,  of  salt 
stard.  Turn  them  over  qnd  over,  several  times,  to 
ssing.  Lay  on  a  clean  cloth,  press  with  another  to 
luid,  and  dip  in  a  batter  made  in  the  proportion  of  one 
of  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour,  with 
ry  in  dripping  or  lard,  drain  off  the  grease,  and  serve. 

Browned  Potatoes. 
ir  skins,  dry  off  and  peel,  set  in  a  baking  pan  in  the 
they  heat,  biitter  three  times  at  intervals  of  five 
zethem.  ,    . 

LUNCHEON. 

iScalloped  Cod,  Halibut  or  Salmon. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  Browned. 

ildBMad.     .  Bnttnr.  Picklea 

Crackers  and  Cheese.         Lady  Calre.         Tea. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  afa 

Scalloped  Cod,  Halibut  or  Salmon. 

Two  pounds  of  cold  boiled  fish ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  one  ev«ii 
cup  of  bread  crumbs ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour ;  pepptr 
and  salt  to  taste;  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  minced  puiltf ; 
two  eggs. 

Pick  the  fish  fine  with  a  fork,  heat  the  salted  milk  in  a  saucepan/ 
rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  stir  into  the  milk,  with,  pepper 
and  parsley,  and  pour  this  on  the  beaten  eggs.  Strew  the  bottou 
of  a  baking  dish  with  crumbs,  put  in  a  layer  of  sauce,  then  one  of 
fish,  another  of  sauce,  and  so  on  until  the  ingredients  are  used  up. 
Cover  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs  and  bake,  covered,  uatil  it  bubbles 
all  over,  then  brown. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  Browned. 

Pare  and  cut  potatoes  into  small  dice ;  lay  these  in  cold  water 
for  half  an  hoiir ;  stew  tender,  but  not  soft,  in  hot,  salted  water ;  tutn 
this  ofi",  and  cover  the  potatoes  with  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  in  which 
you  have  melted  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  a  teaepoo&ful  ef 
prepared  flour.  Turn  all  into  a  greased  pudding,  or  pit  diali)  eaA 
brown  lightly  in  a  quick  oven. 


^im 


Lady  Oaks. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  powered  sugar ;  half  cup  of  butter ;  twe 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  whites  of  five  eggs ;  two  even  cups  of 
sifted  prepared  flour ;  One  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almond  flavorinf . 
Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk  and  flavorlfif,  then 
whites  and  flour  alternately.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  tint,  and  wluBft 
they  are  cold,  divide  by  layers  of  whipped  creMO,  eiftiag 
top. 


.„  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

DINNER. 

Catfish  Soup.  Larded  Liver. 

■    Cftrnmed  Com  Pudding.  Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Russian  Cream.  Light  Cake. 

Fruit.  CoflFee. 

Catfish  Soup. 
Three  pounds  of  fish  when  they  have  been  cleaned,  sldnned 
and  beheaded;  two  cups  of  milk,  heated,  with  a  tiny  bit  of  soda; 
two  tablcspoonfuls  of  prepared  flour  rubbed  up  with  three  of  but- 
ter ;  two  beaten  eggs ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley ;  three 
cups  of  cold  water ;  pepper  and  salt. 

Cover  the  fish  with  cold  water  and  stew  gently  until  the  flesh 
slips  easily  from  the  bones ;  take  from  the  fire,  pick  out  and  throw 
away  the  bones ;  chop  the  fish,  strain  the  liquor  in  which  it  was 
boiled,  and  return  all  to  the  fire ;  as  it  boils,  stir  in  floured  butter, 
seasoning  and  parsley ;  boil  two  minutes ;  pour  the  scalding  milk 
'  from  another  vessel  over  the  eggs,  turn  into  the  tureen,  add  the 
fish-soup  and  serve.  Line  the  tureen  with  Boston  crackers,  split, 
soaked  in  boiling  milk  and  well-buttered  before  pouring  the  soup 
upon  th«m.     Pass  sliced  lemon  with  it. 

Larded  Liver. 
Wash  a  fresh  calf's  liver,  and  soak  it  for  an  hour  in  cold  water 
slightly  salt.  Wipe  dry,  and  with  a  sharp  knife,  make  perpendicu- 
Tmt  incisions  dear  through  the  liver  about  an  inch  apart.  Into 
iiiMK  thmit  itripfi  of  fat  salt  pork  long  enough  to  projtct  on  botik 
aUm.  lato  the  bottom  of  a  pot  or  sauospan  put  a  tablecpooniul  of 
[  msha,  some  ckopped  panslsy  or  other  sweet  herivs,  poppar. 


SPRING  BILLS  Oif  'fKECE.  263 

and  a  half-cupful  of  strained  tomato  juice.  On  this  lay  the  liver, 
sprinkle  as  much  onion  on  top  as  there  is  below,  cover  very  tightly 
and  set  at  one  side  of  the  range,  where  it  will  not  reach  the  boiling 
point  under  an  hour.  Gradually  increase  the  heat,  but  never  let  it 
be  strong,  for  two  hours  more,  when  uncover  the  pot  for  the  first 
time,  to  test  with  a  fork  if  it  be  tender.  It  should  be  so  tender  that 
the  fork  enters  as  easily  as  into  the  crumby  heart  of  a  well-b'aked 
loaf.  Take  out  the  liver  and  keep  hot,  while  you  strain  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  a  great  spoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water, 
and  when  it  boils,  add  a  glass  of  sherry.  Pour  over  the  liver. 
Carve  the  latter  horizontally.    It  is  as  good  cold  as  hot. 


Canned  Corn  Pudding.  . 

Mince  the  com  fine.  Beat  up  three  eggs,  add  two  tablcspoonfuls 
of  sugar,  the  same  of  melted  butter,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  cupful  of  milk,  lastly  the  com.  Beat  hard  and  bake  covered 
in  a  greased  pudding  dish  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  te  browm 
delicately. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Cook  twenty  minutes,  before  seasoning  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  less  than  half  as  much  salt,  a 
dash  of  pepper,  and  the  merest  suspicion  of  minced  onion.  Stew 
five  minutes  longer,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  crumbs,  boil  up  aad 
serve. 

'  Russian  Cream. 

Half  a  package  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  four  hours  in  water 
enough  to  cover  it ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  four  eggs ;  two  cups  oi 
sugar ;  a  generous  glass  of  sherrv ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

[k,  take  from  the  fire,  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  ot 
light  with  the  sugar ;  also  the  gelatine.  Stir  all 
aixing  and  return  to  the  fire ;  hoil  five  minutes, 
lOve  to  the  table,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth, 
wine,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  pour  into  molds 
.ter.  Set  in  a  cold  place  to  form.  It  is  well  to 
before  it  is  to  be  eaten,  if  you  have  an  early  din- 
moniing,  if  you  dine  in  the  evening.  It  is  deli, 
cake. 

No.  4. 
BREAKFAST. 

iiiBJiam  i'orridge.        Fried  Tripe.         Rice  Muffins. 

Fried  Potatoes. 
Tea,  Coflfee. 

Graham  Porridge. 

One  cup  of  Graham  flour ;  one  cup  of  boiling  water — a  large 
one ;  one  cup  of  hot  milk ;  salt  to  your  liking. 

Wet  the  flour  with  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling,  which 
should  be  in  a  farina  kettle.  Salt  to  taste,  and  cook  half  an  hour, 
stirring  up  from  the  bottom,  now  and  then.  Pour  in  the  warm  milk 
a  little  at  a  time,  mixing  well,  and  cook  ten  minutes  after  it  is  all 
iiL.    Serve  in  an  open  dish,  and  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 


Fried  Tripe. 
Cut   pickled  tripe  into  squares    as  large  as  the  palm  of  the 
hand ;  wash  in  two  waters,  and  cover  with  boiling  water.     Simmer 
gently  for  twenty  minutes,  turn  off  the  water  and  put  in,  instead, 


y 


SPRIN©  BILLS  OF  FARE.,  265 

% 

an  equal  quantity  of  milk-and-water,  cold.  Bring  to  a  boil,  drain 
and  wipe  the  tripe,  rub  each  piece  with  butter  apd  pepper,  with 
salt,  if  needed ;  roll  in  flour  or  t,%%  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
dripping.  Drain  off  the  fat  and  serve  on  a  heated  dislu  Send 
lemon  and  Chili  sauce  around  with  the  tripe. 


Rice  Muffins, 

One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  half  a  yeast  cake^ 
dissolved  in  half  a  cupful  of  warm  water ;  one  full  tablespoonfiil  of 
lard,  melted ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  a^t ; 
three  cups  of  flour ;  bit  of  soda,  twice  the  size  of  a  pea,  dissolved  in 
boiling  water. 

Rub  the  lard  and  sugar  into  the  rice,  and  into  this,  the  milk^ 
working  out  the  lumps.  Add  the  yeast,  and  flour  enough  for  a 
good  batter.  Leave  it  to  rise  five  or  six  hours,  stir  in  soda  and 
salt,  bealiMg  hard,  half  fill  muffin  tins,  let  them  stand,  covered, 
twenty  minutes,  and  bake.  They  are  richer  if  you  add  two  eggs  in 
the  morning  after  the  "  long  rising."    Eat  hot. 


Fried  Potatoes. 

Pare  potatoes,  and  slice  thin,  or  cut  into  strips.  Lay  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour,  spread  on  a  dry.  towel,  and,  covering  ,with 
another,  gently  pat  them  to  dry  off  the  moisture.  Have  ready  hot 
dripping,  and  fry  quickly  to  a  light  brown,  not  too  many  at  once. 
Take  up  with  a  split  spoon,  and  shake  in  a  hot  colander  to  free 
them  from  grease.  Serve  in  a  dish  lined  with  a  hot  napkin. 
Mem. :  Do  not  let  them  get  warm  after  you  take  them  out  of  the 
ice-water,  before  cooking  them. 


}  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

LUNCHEON. 

jgs,  Welsh  RartHt 

Bread  and  Butter. 
Prudence's  Gingerbread.  Cocoa-theta. 

MERiNGtJED  Eggs. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff.  Lay  great  spoonfuls  erf 
the  standing  froth  on  a  platter  that  will  stand  the  oven  heat.  With 
the  back  of  a  tablespoon  make  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of  each  heap, 
and  put  a  raw  yolk  in  it.  Set  in  the  oveu  until  the  meringue 
begins  to  color  faintly,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  lay  a  bit  of 
butter  on  each  eg^,  and  serve  in  the  platter  in  which  they  were 
baked. 

Welsh  Rarsbit. 

Sii  rounds  of  toasted  bread;  two  beaten  eggs;  three  large 
spoonfuls  of  dry  grated  cheese ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine  crumbs ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cream ;  one 
saltspoonful  of  mustard ;  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt. 

Work  the  butter,  cheese,  salt,  pepper  and  cream  gradually  into 
a  smooth  paste,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  the  crumbs,  and  spread  half  an 
inch  thick  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  If  the  paste  is  not  laid  oa 
heavily,  it  will  be  absorbed  in  cooking.  Set  in  a  quick  oven  until 
they  begin  to  brown.    Eat  at  once. 

Prudence's  Gingerbread  {witkout  eggi). 
One  i;up  of  molasses ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  buttermilk, 
or  loppered  milk ;    half  a  cup  of  butter ;    one  tablespoonful  ol 


SPRING  BIIyLS  OP  FARE.  267 


ginger ;  one  teaspoonftl  of  dtitTmon,  or  nutxxiof ^  or  maoe ;  aboscrt 
four  cups  of  flour ;  one  rounded  toaspoouftil  of  soda,  sifted  twiee 
with  the  flotir. 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  molassM  and  spice  together ;  when  jou  haye 
warmed  them  slightly,  put  in  the  milk,  and  then  the  flour.  Beat 
until  the  batter  is  several  shades  lighter  than  when  you  began,  and 
bake  at  once  in  small  tins. 

C0CX)A-THaTA. 

Heat  four  cups  of  milk  in  a  farina  kettle;  stir  in,  when  it  is/ 
scalding  hot,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Wilbur's  cocoa-theta,  and  leave 
in  the  boiling  water,  covered,  for  five  or  six  minutes  before  pouring 
it  out.  This  is  a  most  delicious  preparation  of  the  chocolate  family. 
Many  who  cannot  drink  cocoa  as  usually  put  up,  may  take  this 
without  harm  to  head  or  stomach.  It  is  a  pleasing  aceompaniment 
to  gingerbread. 

mmmmmmmmtm 

DINNER. 

Com  fSoup  (maij^Ti).        Boiled  Cod  with  Bgg  Sauce. 

Baked  Mutton  C  )hops. 
Baked  Spaghetti  Fried  Bananas.  Orange  Pudding 

Fruit  Coflfee. 


Corn  Soup  {Ma^re). 

One  can  of  com;  two  cups  of  milk;  one  quart  of  water; 
three  ^gga ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  in  as  much  flour; 
one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Chop  the  com  fine,  and  put  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a 
farina  kettle.     Cook  for  an  hour«  rub  through  a  colander,  season 


8FRINO  BILLS  OP  FARE. 

whli  pepper  mnd  salt,  put  back  in  the  kettle,  lieat  to  a  boil,  and  stii 
in  the  flonied  tmtter.  Scald' the  milk  in  a  separate  vessel  (dropping 
in  a  tiny  bit  of  soda)  ponr  it  slowly  on  the  beaten  eggs,  keeping  th^ 
egg-beater  going  all  the  time,  add  to  the  sonp ;  stir  for  one  minnte; 
put  in  the  chopped  porsl^,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 


BoiutD  Coix 

Selact  a  firm,  thick  piece  of  fish ;  sew  up  in  mosquito  net  and 
pnt  over  the  fire  in  plenty  of  boiling,  salted  water.  Cook  one  hour 
for  a  piece  that  weighs  between  four  and  five  pounds.  Undo  the 
netting,  lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  rub  all  over  with  butter  and 
lemon  juice,  and  put  three  tablespoonfols  of  the  egg-sauce  on  it,  the 
rest  in  a  boat. 


Ego  Sauol 

Heat  a  cup  of  milk  and  water— equal  quantities  of  both ;  when  it 
boilSi  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  rubbed  togetlier  with 
as  much  flour.  Cook  three  minutes,  and  turn  it  out  upon  two  eggs 
beaten  light  Return  to  the  fire ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  a  hard  boiled  egg  minced  veiy  fiue.  Boil  one  minuti* 
more — and  pour  out. 


Mutton  Chops. 


Trim  them  neatly,  and  let  them  lie  in  a  mixture  of  melted 
butter,  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice  for  half  an  hour,  tuming  over 
.m^^gL  chops  faithfully  «ith  it  Arrange  the  mj  ta  , 
dripping  pan,  and,  as  it  heats,  baste  with  hot  water  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  a  little  butter.  Keep  covered  except  when 
basting  them.     When  the  chops  are  nicely  browned,  remove  to  a 


SPRING  BILtS  OP  FARE.  ^^ 

hot-water  dish  to  keep  warm.  Strain  tlie  gravy  left  in  tlie  pan,  put 
over  the  fire  with  half  a  cup  of  strained  tomato  juice,  season,  and,  \ 
as  it  boils,  stir  in  enough  browned  flour  to  thicken  it.  Cook  two 
minutes,  and  pour  upon  the  chops  when  you  have  sprinkled  them 
with  tiny  specks  of  currant  jelly.  Let  them  stand  covered  far 
ihree  minutes  before  serving. 

Baked  Spaghettl 

"Spaghetti"  is  otherwise  known  as  "small'*  or  " straw *• 
macaroni,  and  is  considered  more  delicate,  as  it  is  certainly  prettier 
than  the  "  large  "  or  "  pipe  macaroni."  Break  half  a  pound  into 
even  lengths,  perhaps  into  two-inch  pieces.  It  is  easier  to  serve 
and  eat  it  thus  than  when  long  coils  of  it  drip  over  dish  and  plate. 
Cook  it  gently  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  clear  and  tender,  but 
not  broken.  Twenty  minutes  should  suffice.  Drain  it,  and  fill  a 
buttered  bake-dish  with  layers  of  spaghetti  divided  by  layers  of 
grated  cheese  and  butter-bits,  seasoned  with  salt,  add  a  cupful  of  milk, 
raising  the  layers  to  let  it  sink  to  the  bottom ;  strain  grated  cheese 
thickly  on  the  top,  and  bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hottr.  Afterward 
brown  on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven.    . 


Fried  Bananas. 

Pare,  then  slice  sound,  ripe  bananas  lengthwise,  toll  in  flotiri^ 
fcmtil  thickly  coated,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  butter.    Line  a 
dish  with  white,  soft  paper^  lay  each  slice  on  it  as  you  take  it  up,  to 
absorb  the  grease  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 


Orange  Pudding. 

Three  eggs ;  One  cup  of  sugar ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
Juice  of  two  oranges,  pnd  half  the  grated  peel  of  one;  juice  of  a 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE. 

lemon ;  grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  con* 
starch  or  arrowroot — the  latter  is  the  better  of  the  two. 

Whip  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  whip  in,  by  degrees,  orange 

-  and  lemon-juice  and  grated  peel ;  lastly,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
the  arrowroot  wet  with  water ;  have  ready  a  pie-plate  lined  with  a 

'  nice  paste ;  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake ;  make  a  meringue  of 
the  beaten  whites,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar, 

'whipping  in  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  at  the  last;  when  the 
pudding  is  firm  and  begins  to  brown,  spread  this  on  the  top  and  leave 
in  the  oven  until  the  meringue  is  "  set "  and  incrusted  on  the  surface. 


No.  S. 

BREAKFAST. 

Wheaten  Grits. 
Fresh  Mackerel.  Farina  Cakes. 

Stewed  Potatoes.  Cold  Bread.  Berries. 

Tea.  Coffee. 

Fresh  Mackerel.  ■ 
Clean,  wash,  wipe  Inside  and  cut,  pepper,  salt  and  roll  in  Indian 
meal  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  good  dripping;  drain,  and  serve  hot.  If 
you  wish  a  sauce  for  them,  add  to  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  the 
;uice  of  a  lemon,  a  quarter-teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  table-  ■ 
spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  browned  flour;  salt  to  liking f 
boil  up  once  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Farina  Cakes. 
One  quart  of  milk ;  two  cups  of  boiling  water ;  half  a  cnp  oi 
farina :  three  eggs ;  one  scant  cup  of  prepared  flour ;  one  table' 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  ^yt 

spoonful  of  melted  lard ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonfnl 
of  molasses.  Mix  the  farina  with  the  boiling  water,  stir  in  salt  and 
lard,  beat  hard,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  all  night ;  then  beat 
in  the  eggs,  the  molasses,  the  milk — gradually— and,  lastly,  the 
flour,  stirring  all  hard;  bake  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle  They  are 
very  nice^  if  the  batter  is  not  too  sti£ 


am 


LUNCHEON. 

Galantine.  Minced  Potatoes.  Cress  Salad. 

Crackers  and  Cheese.  Cake  and  Cocoa-theta 


Galantine 

Cat  from  a  piece  of  fat,  fresh  pork  an  oblong  piece  of  skin,  five 
or  six  inches' wide,  and  eight  or  ten  long.  Leave  a  lining  of  fat  on 
the  inside.  Lay  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover  it  for  four  hours ;  then, 
spread  on  a  platter,  and  cover  the  fat-lining  with  minced  meat  of 
any  kind  and  all  kinds  (ham  holding  an  important  place)  veal, 
mutton,  beef,  liver,  poultry,  etc.,  seasoned  piquantly  with  pepper, 
salt,  herbs,  onion,  a  touch  of  spice,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon* 
peel.  Moisten  with  gravy,  and  put  in  a  bit  of  fat,  now  and  then. 
Fold  up  the  pork-rind  on  all,  bringing  the  edges  together,  and 
putting  in  a  stitch  or  two  to  hold  them  in  place.  Wrap  in  a  single 
thickness  of  stout  cloth,  sewing  it  closely  about  it,  and  put  on  to 
boil  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  in  which  is  mixed  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar  to  each  quart  of  water.  Boil  slowly  five  hours ;  let  the 
galantine  get  nearly  cold  in  the  water,  take  it  out  and  lay  under 
heavy  weights  all  night;  undo  and  remove  the  cloth,  clip  the 
threads  and  draw  them  out,  trim  off  the  edges,  and  it  is  ready  for 


SPRING  BILtS  OF  FARB. 

Uie  table.    Cnt  clear  throngh  skin  and  stuffing  in  earring  it  in  neat 
slices.    T^  "  relish  "  is  verjr  fine. 


MmcED  Potatoes. 
Mince  cold  boiled  potatoes  witli  a  sharp  knife ;  pnt  a  spoonfnl 
of  beef  dripping,  or  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  with  a  tablespoonful  o( 
finely  minced  parsley,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon  peel, 
pepper  and  salt  As  it  simmers  stir  in  the  potatoes,  and  continue 
to  stir  and  toss  until  very  hot  all  through  and  quite  dry.  Serve  in 
a  deep  dish,  hot. 

Cress  Salad. 
Wash  and  jnck  over  the  cresses,  shake  off  the  wet,  and  serve  in 
a^aladbowl.    At  table,  pick  the  twigs  to  pieces  and  season  with 
EUgar,  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  and  oil.    Mix  well,  and  pass  crackers 
with  it 


DINNER. 

A^>atagus  Sonp.  Boiled  Bass. 

Roast  Sweet  Breads  and  Green  Peas. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Young  Onions. 

Belle's  Bright  Thought 

.    Coffee. 


Asparagus  Soxjp. 
Three  jants  of  soup  stock ;  one  large  bunch  of  asparagus,  cut 
faito  ahf^rt  leng^s,  the  woody  parts  by  themselves ;  one  cup  of  milk ; 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARB.  aj$ 

« 

one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  tolled  in  one  of  prepared  flcmr ;  pepper 
and  salt. 

Put  the  stock  over  the  fire  with  all  the  stalks  and  one-third  of 
the  green  heads ;  cook  until  the  asparagus  can  be  rubbed  through 
a  colander,  leaving  the  wood  behind ;  rub  all  through  that  will  pass 
easily ;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire,  season,  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  drop 
in  the  reserved  heads  cut  into  inches ;  cook  until  these  are  tender. 
In  another  vessel  heat  the  milk,  stir  in  the  floured  butter,  and  add 
to  the  soup.  Line  a  tureen  with  dice  of  fried  bread,  and  pour  the 
soup  upon  them. 


Boiled  Bas& 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  but  do  not  split  it  or  remove  the  head 
and  tail ;  sew  up  in  a  piece  of  mosquito  netting  fitted  to  the  shape  of 
the  fish.  Have  in  the  fish-kettle  plenty  of  boiling  water,  in  which 
have  been  mixed  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  dozen  pepper^ 
corns,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt 
Cook  ten  minutes  for  each  pound,  and  ten  minutes  over.  Undo  the 
cloth,  lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  drawn 
butter,  seasoned  with  a  tablespoonful  of  capers  and  the  yolks  of  two 
hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine«    Pass  mashed  potatoes  with  it« 


Roast  Swkbtbrbads  and  Peas. 

Wash  the  sweetbreads,  drop  into  boiling  water,  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes ;  then  plunge  into  ice-cold  water,  and  leave  them  there  half 
an  hour.  Wipe  dry,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs. 
Lay  in  a  dripping  pan ;  pour  around  them  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water  in  which  you  have  melted  a  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  covers  aad 


RING  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

.  bake  them  lulf  an  hour,  basting  several  times.    Remove  tHe  cover, 
■  ind  brown.  Boil  tie  peas  as  directed  in  a  former  recipe,  drain,  butter 

pepper  and  salt  them,  heap  on  a  hot  dish  and  lay  the  sweetbreads 

aronndthem. 


Young  Onions. 
Cut  off  the  tops,  wash,  remove  the  outer  layer  of  sldn,  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes  in  fresh  hot  water.  Drain  this  off,  cover  the  onions 
with  milk  and  hot  water  in  equal  proportions,  salt  slightly,  and 
cook  ten  minutes  after  the  boil  recommences,  or  until  the  onions  are 
tender.  Drain,  barely  cover  with  hot  cream  or  rich  milk  in  which  a 
lump  of  butter  has  been  melted,  salt  and  pepper,  and  send  to  table. 
No  one  who  has  once  eaten  onions  cooked  in  this  way  will  ever  like 
those  prepared  (or  rained)  after  the  ordinary  mode. 


Bbuub's  Bright  Thought. 

One  package  of  Coxe's  gelatine,  soaked  for  four  hours  In  a  large 
cup  of  cold  water;  two  cups  of  boiling  water;  juice  of  a  lemon; 
one  cup  of  pale  sherry;  two  cups  of  sug^;  whites  of  six  eggs; 
three  pints  of  fine  strawberries. 

Put  soaked  gelatine,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  into  a  bowl,  pour  in  the 
boiling  water,  stir  uiiiil  dissolved,  and  let  it  cool,  but  not  congeal, 
before  adding  the  wine.  Whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat 
in  a  great  spoonful .  of  the  jelly  at  a  time,  setting  the  bowl  of 
meringue  in  ice-water  as  you  work.  When  all  the  jelly  is  in,  whip 
steadily  for  fifleen  minutes,  until  you  have  a  white  sponge  which 
will  just  drop  from  a  spoon.  Have  ready  a  melon-shaped  mold,  or 
a  round  bottomed  bowl  wet  with  cold  water,  and  lined  evenly  with 
Mnwberriei,  capped  and  rolled  in  sugar.    As  you  cover  the  bottom, 


SPRING  BILI^  OP  FARE.  275 

jour  in  enough  of  tlie  snowy  sponge  to  keep  them  in  place,  building 
np  the  lining  and  filling  thus  until  the  mold  is  full.  Set  on  ice  for 
fiye  or  six  hours.  Loosen  around  the  edges  with  persuasive  finger- 
tips, turn  out  on  a  cold  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  as  you 

•  '  ' 

senre,  cut  in  careful  perpendicular  slices,  and  send  around  cream 
with  it  For  cream  you  may  substitute  custard  if  you  like.  A 
beautiful  and  delicious  dessert,  and  easily  made. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheat  Germ  MeaL  Broiled  Shad.  MelisM^s  Shortcafeet 

Baked  Potatoes.        Bread  and  Butter.        Berries. 

Tea  and  Coffeee» 


Whsat  Germ  Mbal. 

This  breakfast  cereal  is  less  heating  than  oatmeal,  less  laxalive 
than  wheaten  grits,  and  more  palatable  than  either.  To  one  quart 
of  boiling  water,  add  one  small  cupful  of  wheat  germ  meal,  with  a 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir,  and  cook  in  the  farina-ketUe  £cft 
fifteen  minutes.    Bat  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  cream  alome. 


Broiled  Shad. 

Clean,  wash  and  split  the  fish  down  the  back.    Lay  on  a  wdl« 
buttered  gridiron,  skin  upward,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  lifting  a  * 
moment  should  it  drip  on  the  coals  or  brown  into  bum.    Turn  the 
fish  when  the  inside  is  browned.    When  it  is  done — ^from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  should  suffice  for  a  fair-sized  shad— lay  on  a 


276 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 


hot  platter,  and  rub  with  a  sauce  made  by  beating  a  tablcspoonftil 
of  butter  light  Vith  pepper,  salt  and  finely  minced  parsley,  adding, 
if  you  like,  a  little  lemon  juice.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


Melissa's  Shortcake. 

One  quart  of  Hecker's  prepared  flour ;  half  a  cupful  of  butter^^ 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  two  cups  of  milk. 

If  you  can  get  a  cup  of  cream,  put  half  the  quantity  of  milk  and 
less  butter.  Sift  the  salt  with  the  flour,  chop  in  the  butter  until 
you  have  a  yellow  dust,  wet  with  the  milk  and  roll  out  with  as 
little  handling  as  possible,  half-an-inch  thick.  Bake  in  broad, 
shallow  pans  well  greased.  When  done,  cut  into  squares,  split 
and  butter  while  hot,  and  send  at  once  to  table. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  Pish.  Baked  Pstatoes. 

Deviled  Biscuits. 


Pop  Overs. 


Chooolate. 


Sc^LOPBD  Fisa. 

One  heaping  cupful  of  cold,  boiled  fish,  picked  into  fine  flakes 
with  a  fork ;  one  cupful  of  drawn  butter ;  one  tablespoonftd  of 
minced  parsley ;  pepper  and  salt ;  half-cupful  of  fine  crumbs ;  one 
tablespponful  of  grated  cheese. 

Mix  all  well  together  except  the  crumbs,  turn  into  a  greased 
bake^sh,  strew  crumbs  on  top,  and  brswa  quickly  ia  the 
own. 


SPRING  BIIXS  OP  FAILS.  ay? 

Dbvilsd  Biscuits. 

Split  stale  rolls  or  biscuits,  and  toast  to  a  Uglit  brown  on  tiM 
Upper  grating  of  the  oven.  Prepare  a  mixture  of  one  cupful  of 
dry  cheese,  grated  fine  (Parmesan,  if  you  can  get  it),  one  table* 
spoonful  of  best  salad  oil,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  mere  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  the  yolks  of  thrM 
eggs  beaten  smooth.  Incorporate  faithfully ;  spread  on  the  inside 
of  the  biscuits ;  set  them  in  a  quick  oven  to  g«t  heAfcod  through^ 
and  serve,  covered  with  a  napkin. 


Pop  Ovbrs. 

One  quart  of  prepared  flour  (Keeker's  is  best) ;  one  quart  of 
xnilk;  four  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  mix  with  the  salted  milk ;  add  the 
Zmtter,  then  flour,  and  whipped  whites  alternately.  Do  all  this 
briskly ;  fill  one  dozen  stoneware  cups  with  the  batter,  and  baks  in 
a  quick  oven.  Serve  in  the  cups,  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce.  They 
should  not  stand  one  minute  when  you  have  taken  them  bam.  tke 
oven,  but  be  served  at  once. 

DINNER. 

Mulligatawney  Soup.  Imitation  l^ensfbL 

Mashed  Potatoes.       Succotash. 
Marmalade  Padding.        FrdL        Oofee. 


MULUGATAWNBY  SoUP. 

Two  quarts  of  the  liquor  in  which  a  calf's  head  has  been  boiled, 
down  to  three  pints;  half  an  onion;  a  blade  of  mace; 


ST*  SPRING  BUXS  OP  PAR& 

jvkt  of  a  Itaum;  lialf  a  capfnl  of  rav  rioey  soaked  in  a  cnpfiil  of 
cold  water  for  two  hours ;  one  tablespoonfnl  of  batter^  cot  up  m 
one  of  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  cuny  powder. 

Strain  the  liquor  througH  a  cloth,  put  in  the  macey  chopped 
onion  and  rice,  and  cook  until  the  latter  is  very  tender.  Wet  the 
cuny  powder  with  the  lemon-juice,  and  when  you  have  stirred  it  inJ 
add  the  floured  butter.    Boil  sharply  fiir  one  minute,  and  serve. 


IlOTATIOK  TbRRAFIN. 

BoSl  a  calf  ^8  head  the  day  before  you  wish  to  make  soup  and 
this  dish,  and  let  it  get  cold  in  the  liquor.  Slide  the  meat  from  the 
head,  and  cut  into  dice.  Mince  the  tongue  fine,  and  make  into 
forcemeat'balls  with  fine  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  raw  egg.  Roll 
in  beaten  cggj  then  in  flour,  and  leave  in  a  cold  place  until  you  are 
ready  for  them.  Season  a  large  cupful  of  liquor  sharply  with 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  salt,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
rolled  in  as  much  browned  flour,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Put  in  the 
meat,  and  stew  gently  ten  minutes  befpre  adding  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  a  glass  of  brown  sherry.  Lastly,  drop  in  the  forcemeat 
balls,  cover  the  saucepan  closely,  arid  set  in  boiling  water  for  ten 
minutes  before  dishing.  The  yolks  of  half  a  dozen  hard-boiled 
eggs  improve  this  dish. 

Succotash. 

Empty  a  can  of  com,  and  one  of  string  Wins,  several  hours 
before  you  wish  to  use  them,  draining  oflF  the  liq'^^or  from  both.  Put 
together  into  a  saucepan  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  and  barely 
cover  with  milk  and  water  in  equal  parts,  boiling  hot  and  slightly 
iahod.    Cook  gently  twenty  minutes,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE.  279 

butter  rolled  in  one  of  flour.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stew  ten 
minutes  more  and  dish.  You  may  substitute  Lima  for  string  beaur 
if  you 


Marmalade  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  four  eggs ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  slices  of  stale 
bread,  buttered. 

Fruit  marmalade, — ^peach  is  best  if  you  have  it,  but  apple^ 
quince  or  raspberry  will  do  if  you  have  not.  Scald  the  milk,  and 
pour  it  on  the  eggs,  which  should  have  been  beaten  light  with  the 
sugar.  Return  to  the  farina  kettle,  and  cook  five  minutes,  but  not 
until  the  custard  thickens.  Cut  the  bread  an  inch  thick,  pare  off 
the  crust,  butter  on  both  sides,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  a-  pudding- 
dish  with  slices  fitted  in  neatly.  Spread  the  marmalade  thickly  on 
this  layer,  and  wet  with  the  boiling  custard,  waiting  to  see  it 
absorbed  before  putting  another  layer  above  it.  Proceed  in  this 
order  until  all  the  materials  are  used  up.  Fit  a  plate,  or  other  lid, 
on  the  bake-dish  and  let  the  whole  stand  for  half  an  hour,  to 
absorb  the  custard  before  it  goes  into  the  oven.  Bake,  covered, 
until  the  pudding  is  heated  through,  then,  brown  nicely.  Eat 
cold  with  cream.  This  excellent  pudding  may  be  made  more 
elegant  by  whipping  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  meringue  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  spreading  it  over  the  top 
afler  it  begins  to  brown.  Shut  the  oven  door  until  the  meringue  is 
faintly  colored. 

Frutt* 

With  the  approach  of  the  warmer  weather,  the  prudent  housewife 
will  pay  more  attention  to  this  part  of  her  menu.     Make  the  dish  of 
^,  anti-bilious  fruits  attractive  by  selection  and  arrangement. 


s8o 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE. 


Nuts  belong  to  winter-time  when  fats  are  needed  to  produce  carbon. 
Raisins,  always  unwholesome,  clog  digestion  weakened  by  "  spring 
fever,"  and  irritate  morbid  livers.  "  Eating-apples  "  are  nearly  out 
of  season,  but  oranges  and  bananas  valiantly  relieve  guard  between 
them  and  the  grapes  and  late  pears  that  lasted  after  the  holidays, 
imd  the  coming  berries.  The  juice  of  a  lemon,  mixed  with  four 
times  as  much  water,  unsugared,  and  drunk  just  before  bedtime, 
will  do  more  to  counteract  malarial  influences  and  correct  a  surplus* 
age  of  bile  than  a  dozen  blue  pills. 


No,  r, 

BREAKFAST. 

Graham  Flakes.  Apples  and  Bacon. 

Baked  Potatoes.  Fruit  Coffee. 


Com  Bread 
Tea. 


Graham  Flakes. 

These  are  otherwise  known  as  **  Granulated  Graham,**  and  far- 
nish  a  pleasant  variety  in  the  list  of  breakfast  cereals.  They  can 
be  prepared  at  five  minutes*  notice.  Put  a  scant  cupful  in  a  deep 
dish ;  cover  with  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  water ;  put  on  the 
iish-top,  set  in  hot  water,  and  let  the  flakes  swell  until  you  are  refldy 
to  dish  them.    Add  salt  if  you  like.    Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 


Apples  and  Bacx)n. 


^ 


X  Core  and  slice  tart  apples,  but  do  not  peel  them.  Fry  thfai 
slices  of  breakfast  bacon  until  clear  and  "  ruffled."  Take  them  up 
and  keep  warm  while  you  fry  the  sliced  apples  in  the  bacon  fat  to  a 


SPRING  BIIyLS  OF  FARE.  281 

light  brown.  Lay  the  apples  in  the  middle  of  a  heated  platter,  aad 
dispose  the  bacon  about  them  as  a  garnish,  prain  both  meat  and 
apples  in  a  hot  colander  before  dishing  them. 


Corn  Bread. 

One-and-a-half  cups  of  white  Indian  meal,  and  half  as  much 
flour ;  four  eggs  whipped  light ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  two ,  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  sifted  twice  with  the  flour  and  meal ;  two  cups  of  milk ; 
one  even  teaspoonfuX  of  salt. 

Stir  sugar  and  butter  together  to  a  cream ;  add  the  beaten  eggs; 
beat  two  minutes,  and  put  in  the  milk  and  salt ;  last  of  all,  the  ^ 
meal  and  flour  mixed  together,  and  sifted  with  the  baking  powder; 
beat  up  one  minute  to  aerate  it  thoroughly,  and  pour  into  a  shallow 
pan.  Bake  steadily,  rather  than  fast,  and  eat  hot,  cutting  it  inte 
squares. 

LUNCHEON.  , 

Salmon  Fingers.  Dressed  Potatoes. 

*  k 

Crackers.  Cheese.  Olives 

Com  Starch  Hasty-Pudding. 
Hasty-Pudding  Sauce. 


Salmon  Fingers. 

Soak  a  pound  of  smoked  salmon  four  or  five  hours  in  tepid 
water,  when  you  have  scrubbed  off  the  incrusting  salt.  Lay  then  in 
cold  water,  and  bring  it  to  a  gentle  boil.    Take  out  the  salmon  and 


PRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

covei  mth  ice-cold  water,  leaving  it  thus  for  fifteen  minutes,  chang- 
ing tLe  water  once  for  colder.  Wipe  the  fish  dry,  and  cut  with  a 
keen  blade  into  strips  about  the  length  of  your  middle  finger,  and 
an  inch  wide.  Have  ready  in  a  dish  some  melted  butter  in  which 
have  been  mixed  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  of  Harvey's,  or 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Turn  the  strips  of  fish 
over  in  this,  until  well  coated,  then,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot 
dripping.  Arrange  symmetrically  on  a  hot  dish.  This  is  a  piquant 
refish  and  easily  prepared. 

Dressed  Potatoes. 
Bake  large  Irish  potatoes,  turning  them  several  times  to  keep 
the  skin  whole.  When  they,  yield  to  a  hard  pinch,  cut  a  piece  from 
the  top  of  each,  scrape  out  the  insides  carefully,  and  whip  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  milk,  butter,  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Work  the  potato  until  it  looks  like  cream,  fill  the  skins  with 
it  put  back  the  caps  on  the  cut  ends,  and  set  the  potatoes  upright  in  a 
hot  oven  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  napkin, 
and  send  the  potatoes  in  it  to  table. 

Corn  Starch  HASTY-PtmmNG. 
.  One  quart  of  boiling  milk ;    four  tablespoonfuls  of  cora  starch ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Wet  the  com  starch  with  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  boiling. 
Cook  in  a  farina  kettle  ten  minutes,  beat  in  the  butter  and,  this 
dissolved  and  incorporated,  turn  into  an  open  deep  dish. 


Hasty-Pudding  Sauce. 
One  cup  of  hot  milk ;   one  cup  of  sugar ;  two  eggs ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.   ■  .    , 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FAM5.  a«$ 

Stir  the  butter  into  the  boiling  milk,  add  the  sugar,  and  pour 
this  on  the  beaten  eggs.  Return  to  the  custard-kettle  and  stil 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  adding,  if  you  like, 
nutmeg,  and  set  in  hot,  not  boiling,  water  until  needed. 


DINNER. 

Fish  Bisque.  Roast  Sweetbreads. 

Imitation  Spaghetti. 
Rice  and  Tomato.  GrazieUa  Pudding. 

CofTee. 


Fish  Bisque* 

Stitiin  the  water  in  which  fresh  cod  or  halibut  has  been  boiled, 
through  K  cloth,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  away  in  a 
cold  place  for  next  day's  dinner.  Of  this  make  a  bisque  as  directed 
below. 

To  a  qudrt  of  the  liquor,  heated  to  boiling,  add  a  cupful  of  the 
cold  fish  left  over,  minced  very  fine ;  when  it  has  simmered  five 
minutes,  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  flour 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Have  ready  in  another 
vessel  a  cup  of  hot  milk  in  which  a  scant  cup  of  dry  crumbs  has 
been  stirred,  with  a  bit  of  soda  no  larger  than  a  pea.  Mix  these 
with  the  soup,  stirring  all  together  well,  simmer  one  minute,  and 
serve.  If  made  exactly  according  to  the  directions  given  and  well 
seasoned,  this  bisque  will  be  very  good.  Send  sliced  lemon  and 
crackers  around  with  it. 


Roast  Sweetbreads. 

Parboil  the  sweetbreads  by  cooking  them  for  ten  minutes  in 
ling  salted  water.    Drop  them  into  a  bowl  of  ice-water  and  leave 


NG  BlliS  OF  FARE. 

then)  stand  there  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the  water  as  it  warms. 
Wipe  dry,  roll  in  salted  and  peppered  flour,  and  arrange  in  dripping 
pan.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  on  each,  and  roast  forty-five 
minutes,  basting  often  with  butter-and-water. ,  Take  up,  and  keep 
hot  in  a  chafing-dish  while  you  strain  the  gravy  into  a  saucepan ; 
add  a  little  hot  water,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  one 
of  browned  flour.  Season  and  boil  up,  add  half  a  can  of  mush- 
rooms, cut  in  halves,  cook  three  minutes,  and  pour  over  the 
.  sweetbreads. 

Imitation  SpAGasTTi. 
Boil  and  mash  potatoes,  adding  salt  and  butter,  but  only  a  table 
spoonful  of  milk,  as  you  want  a  stiff  paste.  Rnb  this  through  a 
^  colander  into  a  buttered  pie  or  pudding  dish.  It  will  fall  in  small, 
pipe-like  shapes.  Leave  them  as  they  lie,  and,  when  all  the  potato 
has  passed  through,  set  the  dish  on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven 
to  brown  delicately. 

Rice  and  ToMATa 
BmI  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water  (plenty  of  it),  shaking  now 
and  then  until  each  grain  is  tender,  but  whole.  Have  ready  a 
cupful  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  well  seasoned  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  some  minute  atoms  of  onion.  Dish  the  rice,  stir  a 
■  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  through  it,  with  two  of  grated 
cheese.  Mix  well,  and  pour  the  tomato  sauce  over  all.  Set  in  hot 
water  for  five  minutes,  covered,  and  serve.  A  little  gravy  is  an 
improvement  to  the  sauce. 


Graziella  Pudding. 
Half  a  pound  of  figs ;  two  cups  of  fine  bread  crumbs ;  one  halt 
•up  of  powdered  suet;    two  cups  of  milk;    one  half-cup  of  sugar; 


SPRING  BII.LS  OF  FARE.  aSf 

four  eggs ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  a  good  pinch  of  cmnamoa; 
bit  of  soda,  the  size  of  a  pea,  in  the  milk ;  one  half-teaspoonful  ol 
salt. 

Cover  the  crumbs  with  the  milk,  and  let  them  soak  while  you 
prepare  the  rest  of  the  materials.  Mince  the  figs,  when  you  have 
washed  and  dried  them.  Beat  the  eggs  light  and  add  to  the  soaked 
crumbs,  next,  the  sugar  and  spice  and  salt,  and,  finally,  the  figs 
dredged  with  the  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  (All  the  flour  must 
go  in.)  Beat  very  hard  from  the  bottom  to  the  top,  pour  into  a 
buttered  mold,  fit  on  a  close  lid,  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Dip 
the  mold  into  cold  water  for  a  second,  turn  out,  and  eat  with  hard 
sauce. 


No.  8. 
BREAKFAST. 

Hominy.  Pop-oven. 

Hggs  in  Toast  Cups. 

Stewed  Potatoes.  Strawberries. 

Tea.  CofFee. 

POBOVERS. 

One  pint  of  Hecker's  prepared  flour,  sifted  with  half  a  teaspooniul 
of  salt ;  two  cups  of  rich  milk ;  two  eggs. 

Sift  flour  into  a  bowl ;  beat  the  yolks  light,  stir  the  milk  and 
flour  into  this.  Lastly,  add  the  whites  whipped  stiflF.  Bake 
immediately  in  heated  and  greased  '^  gem  "  or  muffin  tins.  Send  at 
once  to  the  table. 


Eggs  in  Toast-Cups. 

Slice  stale  bread  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a 
larjfe  cake-cutter,  or  tumbler,  into  rounds.     Press  a  small  cutter  on 


286  SPRING  BILLS  OF  PARE. 

these  about  half  the  way  through,  and  scrape  out  the  crumb  from 
the  inner  circles,  leaving  sides  and  bottoms  unbroken.  Set  in  the 
oven  to  dry  for  ten  minutes ;  take  them  out  and  let  them  cool. 
Have  ready  some  salted  lard  or  dripping  in  a  frying-pan ;  put  in 
the  bread-cups  when  it  is  hissing  hot,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 
Take  out,  drain  oflF  the  fat,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a  poached 
egg  in  the  cavity  of  each.  I  regret  that  I  do  not  now  recall  the  name 
of  the  maker  of  a  convenient  utensil  called,  "  an  egg  poacher."  It 
is  to  be  bought  at  house-furnishing  stores,  and  greatly  simplifies  the 
business  of  poaching  eggs  nicely,  and  with  smooth  edges. 


Strawberries. 

Serve  the  larger  varieties,  whole,  with  the  caps  on.  Send 
around  powdered  sugar  with  them,  and  let  each  person  help  him- 
self, dipping  the  berries,  one  by  one,  in  a  little  heap  of  sugar  on  his 
plate  and  eating  them  from  the  caps. 


LUNCHEON. 

Savory  Rice  and  Brains. 
,  Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad.  ^  Crackers  and  Cheese. 

Cold  Bread  and  Butter. 
Amjbrosia.  Light  Cakes. 


Savory  Rice  and  Brains. 

One  cup  of  rice ;  one  cup  of  skimmed  gravy  or  broth,  well 
seasoned ;  one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese ;  salt  and  pepper ;  one  egg ;  brains  of  a  calf. 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FAR&  287 

Soak  tlie  rice  tliree  liours  in  cold  water ;  draiii|  and  pnt  over  ib» 
fire  in  a  farina  kettle,  with  the  broth  and  hot  water.  Cook  nntS 
tender,  shaking  np  now  and  then,  bnt  do  not  put  a  spoon  into  IL 
When  done,  it  should  he  quite  diy.  Drain  in  a  fine-holed 
colander;  mound  on  a  platter;  sift  powdered  cheese  over  it^ 
and  let  it  brown  slightly  on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven^  To 
prepare  the  brains^  boil  them  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  hot  water, 
throw  them  into  cold,  and  leave  them  there  as  long ;  dry,  mash 
them  to  a  paste  with  a  beaten  egg ;  pepper  and  salt  them ;  stir  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  drop,  a  spoonful .  at  a  time,  into  hot  fat. 
Drain,  when  nicdy  browned^  and  ky  around  the  hillock  of  xioe. 


Tomato  and  Lettucb  Salad.  • 

Pick  out  the  crispest  leaves  of  lettuce ;  lay  a  raw  toimato,  peeled 
and  cut  in  half  (horizontally)  on  each ;  arrange  on  Ik  cold  dish ; 
scatter  cracked  ice  among  the  leaves,  and  send  to  table.  In  servingi 
pom  mayonnaise  dressing  over  the  tomata 


Ambrosia* 
P^re  and  cut  (or  pull)  a  ripe  pineapple  into  small  pieces.  Pot  a 
layer  in  a  dish ;  sugar  weU ;  cover  with  grated  cocoanut ;  lay  in 
more  sugared  pineapple,  and  so  on,  until  the  materials  are  used  up. 
covering  the  top  thickly  with  cocoanut  Pass  sponge,  or  other  light 
cake  with  it 


DINNER. 

Clam  Soup.  Leg  of  Mutton,  with  Caper  Sauce. 

Lobster  Salad,  with  Cream  Mayonnaise. 

flashed  Potatoes.  Green  PeaSe 

Crushed-Strawberry  Ice  Cream.       ^ 
White  Cake.  Coflfee. 


7"^ 


"^  »i»'  *■*  SPiONG  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Clau  Soup. 

One  quart  oS  dam  liquor ;    fifty  clams ;    one  cupful  of  boiling 
irotei ;   one  pint  of  milk ;    two  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  buttei 
rolled  in  flour;  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  minced  parsley  and  onion ; 
.  a  pinch  of  mace ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Put  the  liquor,  water,  onion,  and  the  hard  part  of  the  clams 
over  the  fire ;  stir  gently  for  twenty  minutes  after  the  boil  begins ; 
strain  and  season ;  return  to  to  the  fire  with  the  sofl  parts  of  the 
clams,  chopped  fine,  and  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes  longer.  Have 
ready  the  milk,  scalding  Hot,  in  another  vessel ;  stir  in  the  floured 
butter,  cook  two  minutes,  add  the  clam  soup  and  turn  into  the 
tureen,  which  should  be  lined  with  split  Boston  crackers,  dii^>ed  in 
hot  milk,  then  buttered. 

IjEO  OP  Mutton,  WITH  Caper  Saucr. 
Wash  with  vinegar,  peeling  off  as  much  of  the  tough  outer  skin 
as  will  come  away  easily;  boU,  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound,  in  a 
pot  of  hot  salted  water ;  take  out,  wipe  all  over  with  a  clean  cloth 
and  mb  with  butter.  For  the  sauce,  take  out  a  large  cupful  of  the 
liquor  half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done ;  set  the  vessd  contain- 
ing this  in  cold  water  to  throw  up  the  fat;  skim  carefully,  strain 
int6  a  saucepan,  bring  to  a  boil,  stir  in  a  great  spoonful  of  butter 
rubbed  in  as  much  flour.  When  it  has  cooked  three  minutes,  add 
two  tablespoonfhls  of  capers. 


LOBSTSR  SAIJU>— WITH   CRBAH  MATOimAISB. 

Meat  of  two  lobsters  picked  out  and  cut,  not  chopped,  up ;  one 
large  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing;  one  cup  of  whipped  cream; 
lettuce. 


-1 


^  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  289 

Make  tlie  mayonnaise  dressing  by  whipping  tHe  yolks  of  five 
eggs  thick,  then  adding  half  a  cnp  of  best  salad  oil,  drop  by  drop, 
nntil  you  have  a  smooth,  batter-like  mixture ;  beat  in,  then,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  gradually, — a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  keep  the  mixing-bowl  on  ice  while  pre- 
paring the  dressing,  and  leave  it  there  while  you  sprinkle  the 
lobster  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Heap  it  in  a  bowl  lined  with 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Do  this  just  before  serving  it;  beat  the 
whipped  cream  into  the  dressing,  cover  the  lobster  thickly  with  it| 
and  send  it  to  table. 


Crushed-Strawberry  Ice-Cream. 

Mash  a  quart  of  strawberries,  sweeten  very  liberally,  and  stir 
them  into  two  quarts  of  half-frozen  custard,  made  in  the  proportion 
of  six  eggs  and  a  heaping  half  pint  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of 
milk.  Beat  the  berries  in  thoroughly,  and  £neeze  quickly. 
Delicious  / 


White  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  one  half-cup  of  milk ; 
whites  of  nine  eggs ;  one  quart  of  Hecker's  prepared  flour ;  essence  of 
vanilla,  or  bitter  almond. 

FOR  ICING   AND  FILUNG. 

Whites  of  three  eggs;  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  jttioe 
and  grated  peel  of  a  lemon. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  whip  in  the  milk,  essence:,  the 
flour  and  stiffened  whites  by  turns ;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tias^,  e^ad 
when  cool,  spread  the  icing  between  and  on  topw 


290  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE 

No.  O. 

BREAKFAST. 

.     Milk  and  Rice  Porri^^ 

SkaA  amgrmttn.  Annt  Chloe's  Maffinfl. 

Fried  Potatoes.  Berries. 

Tea.  Coffee. 

Milk  and  Ricb  Poriudgb. 

One  scant  cap  of  rice,  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water;  one 
quart  of  milk :  one-half  teaspoonfal  of  salt. 

Put  salted  milk  and  rice  together  in  a  farina  kettle,  fit  on  a  close 
top,  and  keep  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  at  a  steady  boil  for  one 
hour,  shaking  up  vigorously,  now  and  then,  but  not  stirring. 
I^ina  oat  and  eat  with  cream,  and  if  you  like,  sugar. 

Shad  augratin. 
Clean,  split  and  cut  a  shad  into  eight  pieces,  four  for  each  side, 
'  6|Hinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  beaten  egg,  tiieu  in  fine 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping;  drain  off  the 
grease.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  sliced  lemon  and 
fprigs  of  parsley. 

Aunt  Chloe's  MuifFiNS. 

One  even  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  one  quart  of  buttermilk ;  two 
tablespoonfiils  of  Indian  meal ;  one  teaspoooful  of  soda,  and  one  of 
•alt,  sifted  three  times  with  the  meal  and  flour ;  two  well-beaten 
^gs;   one  even  tablespoouful  of  sugar. 

,Beat  the  eggSj  mix  with  the  sugar,  then  with  the  milk ;  add  th* 
flour  silted  with  soda  and  salt,  beat  hard  one  minute,  and  bake  at 
once  in  mufliu  rings  on  a  hot  griddle. 


SPRING  BIIXS  OP  FARB.  ^9i 

LUNCHEON. 

Chicken  Croqnettes. 

Home-made  Crackers.  Lettnoe  Salad. 

Bread.  Cheese.  Olivas. 

Cormneal  Clip  Caka 


I     •  I  (  U    4 


Ceocrbn  Croquuttisl 

Two  pounds  of  cold  chicken  without  boues,  or  one  oan  of 
chicken ;  one  cup  of  cold  mashed  potato-*-n[ude  soft  with  milk ; 
two  eggs ;  half  a  cup  of  gravy,  or  drawn  butter ;  salt  and  pdpper ; 
cracker  crumbs ;  dripping  for  frjdng. 

Chop  the  chicken  very  fine,  mix  with  the  gravyi  and  season. 
Beat  in  the  eggs,  then  the  potato,  and  stir  until  smoking  hot,  in  a 
buttered  frying  pan.  Let  the  mixture  cool  quickly.  Make  into 
croquettes,  roll  in  fine  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  plenty  of  ttica  £sit. 


Hom&Mads  Crackbrs. 

One  quart  of  prepared  flour;  three  good  tablespoonfnls  of 
butter ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  one  hall 
teaspoonful  of  salt 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  put  the  sugar  with  the  milk,  mix 
into  stiff  dough,  lay  on  the  floured  pastry  board,  and  beat  from  end 
to  end  with  the  rolling  pin,  stopping  every  five  minutes,  or  so,  to 
shift  the  mass,  and  double  it  over  upon  itself.  Keep  this  up  Ibi 
twenty  minutes ;  roll  into  a  sheet,  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  iiuch 
thick,  cut  into  round  pakes,  prick  these  deeply  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  They  are  better  the  second  day  than  tht 
first 


293  SPRING  BII.LS  OF  FARE. 

Lettuce  Salad, 

P!ck  over  the  lettuce^  selecting  tlie  crisp,  yonng  leaves,  wasli 
them  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  fifteen  minntes  before  sending  to  the 
table  in  a  glass  bowl«  Send  with  it  a  salad  dish  lined  with  a  napkin* 
Pick  the  larger  leaves  to  pieces,  and  fill  the  salad  bowl  with  them. 
Gather  up  the  comers  of  the  napkin,  shake  it  lightly,  and  turn  out 
the  lettuce  into  the  bowl.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  vinegar 
and  oil ;  toss  up  well  with  a  salad  fork  and  spoon,  and  send  around 
at  once.  Salad  left  three  minutes  in  the  dressing  begins  to  wilt 
aad  toughen. 

V 

CoRNMBAL  Cup  Cak& 

Two  even  cups  of  white  Indian  meal ;  half  a  cup  of  wheat  flour ; 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  four  beaten  eggs;  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  half  a  teaspopnful  of  soda ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  tartar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  sifted  with  meal  and  flour 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon ;  one  quart  of 
boiling  milk. 

Stir  flour,  meal,  salt,  soda,  cream  tartar  into  the  hot  milk ;  heat 
for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  farina  kettle  surrounded  with  boiling  water, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  add  the  butter,  turn  out  and  beat  hard ;  let 
th^  joixture  get  cold  before  beating  in  the  eggs,  whipped  light  with 
sugar  and  Sluice ;  stir  hard  and  bake  in  buttered  patty  pans ;  turn 
out  and  eat  warm  with  butter. 


DINNBR. 

White  SoQpw 

Veal  and  Ham  Cutlets.  Aspaiaguai 

Young  Beets.  Strawberry  Trifle* 

OoflEb? 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE.  293 

White  Soup. 

Three  pounds  of  a  "  knuckle  "  of  veal,  bones  broken^  and  meat 
minced ;  one  half-cup  of  raw  rice ;  three  quarts  of  water ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  rubbed  in  flour ;  half  an  onion  chopped ;  three 
eggs ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  water,  meat,  bones,  rice  and  onions  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
very  slowly  for  four  hours.  Strain,  pick  out  meat  and  bones  and 
rub  the  rice  through  a  fine  colander.  Season,  return  to  the  fire, 
boil  up,  skim  well,  and  put  in  parsley  and  butter.  Heat  the  milk 
in  a  saucepan,  pour  upon  the  beaten  eggs,  and  stir  into  the  soup, 
removing  the  latter  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  they  are  fairly  mixod 
together. 


Vbal  and  Ham  CinxBTEt 

Cut  generous  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  try  them  in  ihdr 
cfwn  fat,  remove  to  a  hot  chafing  dish,  and  in  the  same  fat,  adding  a 
little  lard,  cook  the  cutlets  when  you  have  beaten  them  flat  with 
the  broad  side  of  a  hatchet,  salted  and  peppered,  then  dipped  them  in 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  them  in  overlapping  altcunatiod 
the  ham  on  a  hot  dish. 


Asparagus. 

Cut  off  about  two  inches  of  the  woody  end  of  each  stalk,  tie  thm 
tender  "  bud  "  ends  into  bundles  of  six  stalks  each,  and  boil  tender- 
about  thirty  minutes,  if  large,  in  hot,  salted  water.  Have  ready 
slices  of  crustless  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  wet  with  the  water  in 
which  the  asparagus  was  cooked ;  lay  the  stalks  on  them,  and  poor 
drawn  butter  over  all. 


294  SPRING  BIIvLS  OF  FARK. 

Young  Bests. 

Cut  off  the  tops,  not  too  near  the  root,  wash,  without  scraping 
or  peeling,  and  cook  from  forty  minutes  to  an  hour  in  hot,  salted 
water.  Scrape  off  the  skins,  slice  and  dish,  then  cover  them  with 
a  dressing  made  by  heating  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  liking. 


Strawberry  Trifle. 

One  stale  sponge  cake,  sliced;  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately ;  four  cups  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  three  pints 
of  fresh  strawberries. 

Scald  the  milk,  beat  in  the  sugar  and  yolks,  and  cook,  until  it 
begins  to  thicken — about  ten  minutes.  Let  it  get  cold.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with  sliced  cake,  wet  with  cold  custard  and 
8trew  with  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  with  cake,  wet  this 
with  custard,  more  berries,  sugared,  and  so  on  until  the  cake  is  used 
up.  Pour  in  all  the  custard,  beat  the  whites  to  a  meringue  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  heap  on  the  top  of  the  dish, 
sticking  a  few  choice  berries  in  the  white  mound.  Set  on  ice  until 
needed.     It  should  be  eaten  soon  after  the  berries  go  in. 


No.  lO. 


BREAKFAST. 


Oatmeal  Gruel.  Curried  Eggs. 

Flapjacks.  Baked  Potatoes.  Cold  Bread* 

Fruit  Coffee.  Tea. 


^^ 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB.  35; 

Oathxai,  Gruex. 

One  even  cup  of  fresh  oatmeal;   one  {mttof  eold  wtter;   ana 
pint  of  milk ;  one  even  teaspoonfol  of  salt. 

Wet  the  oatmeal  with  the  water,  and  set  over  the  fire  in  a  farint 
kettle,  stirring  often,  and,  as  it  stiffens,  beating  in  a  cupful  of  milk  [ 
stir  steadily  five  minutes  after  it  reaches  the  baO|  adding  grada  ** 
the  rest  of  the  milk.    Cook,  in  all,  half  an  hour,  dating  fiom 
scalding  pmnt.    Tom  ont,  and  eat  with  sugar  and  cnam. 

Curried  Eggs. 
Put  a  teaspoonfal  of  minced  onion  into  a  cupful  of  weak  br{ 

let  it  boil,  straiu  out  the  onion,  put  the  broth  into  a  deep  fiying-^ , 

season  well,  and  poach  six  or  eight  eggs  in  it  until  the  whites  are 
firm  i  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  and  lay  on  rounds  of  buttered 
toast  in  a  heated  platter.  Pour  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  and  let  the  toast  soak  it  up  while  you  make  the 
sauce.  Do  this  by  stirring  into  the  broth  in  the  frying-pan  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and,  as  it  dissolves,  a  good  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder  wet  up  with  water.  Simmer  until  thick  and  pour  over  the 
eggs  in  the  dish. 


Flapjacks. 

One  cup  of  fine  white  meal ;  one  cup  of  flour ;  two  cups  of 
boiling  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar; -one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  the  same  of  baking  powder ;  two  eggs ;  three  cups  of  milk. 

Put  meal  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  and  scald  with  the  water;  when 
it  is  cold,  stir  in  the  milk;  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together; 
beat  for  one  minute  hard  up  from  the  bottom,  and  bake  on  a  hot 
-r  riddle. 


UNG  BILLS  OF  FARE, 

J 

LUNCHEON. 

Mock  Snipe. 

Thin  Bread  and  Bntter.  Rice  Pilau. 

OdU  Meat  Crackers.  Cheese.  OllvMi 

Oranges  cot  up  widi  Sugar. 

Cika. 

Mock  SmpB. 
Cnt  very  thin  slices  of  &t  salt  pork  about  the  length  of  yonr 
middle  finger  and  twice  as  wide ;  drain  every  drop  of  the  liquor 
from  large  oysters ;  bind  each  about  the  middle  with  a  slice  of  pork. 
skewer  together  with  a  wooden  toothpick,  or  stout  straw,  thrust 
through  both,  and  fry  in  butter  or  dripping  to  a  nice  brown  ;  drain 
off  the  fat,  and  serve,  without  withdrawing  the  toothpicks.  Lay 
within  an  edging  of  watercresses.  The  sharp  points  of  the  skewers 
give  the  dish  some  resemblance  to  broiled  snipe.    £at  hot 

Rica  PnAo. 

One  cnp  of  weak  broth,  and  the  same  of  stewed  tomatoes, 
3truned  through  a  fine  sieve ;  one  half-cup  of  raw  rice ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  minced  onion,  pepper  and  salt. 

Sinimex  broth,  tomatoes  and  onion  together  for  fifleen  minutes; 
Btrain  out  the  onion,  season  well,  and  put  over  the  fire  with  the 
rice,  which  should  have  soaked  one  hour  in  cold  water ;  cook  gently, 
until  the  rice  is  tender,  shaking  up  the  saucepan  now  and  then,  but 
never  stirring  it ;  add  the  butter,  working  it  in  lightly  with  a  fork, 
and  set  it  at  the  back  of  the  range  to  dry  off,  as  you  would  boiled 
potatoes.    Sem  in  a  heated,  deep  dish. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

Oranges  cut  up  with  Sugab. 
Peel,  without  tearing  the  fruit,  divide  deftly  into  eighths,  and  cot 
these  crusswise,  removing  the  seed  when  it  can  be  done  without 
manglittg  the  flesh.     The  beauty  of  the  dish  depends  upon  care  ia 
dividing,  and  seeding,  and  the  keenness  of  the  blade  used  for  cutting. 
Pile  in  a  glass  dish,  aud  sugar  each  portion  as  you  serve  it  ou 
tha  oranges  are  left  long  la  sugar,  they  wither,  and  bae  their 
flavor,    I^ss  cake  with  them. 

DINNER. 

Tomato  Biaqnei 

Chicken  FVicassee,  cache,        .  Bermuda  Onlona,  atoM 

Potato  Croquettea. 

Cbocdlate  Trifle.  Ltgbt  Oakt. 

Fruit  OofietL 

Tomato  Bisqdb. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes ;  one  quart  of  nulk,  with  a  t 
of  soda  stirred  in;  one  even  tablespoonfiil  of  corn-starch 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  rubbed  together;  aalt  and 
to  taste ;  one  half  teaspoouful  of  sugan 

Stew  the  tomatoes  for  half  an  hour  with  salt,  pepper  and  angatf 
nib  through  a  fine  colander  back  into  the  saucepan,  and  heat  to 
knling.  Scald  the  milk  in  another  vessel,  add  corn-starch  and 
butter,  and  stir  until  well  thickened.  Mix  with  the  tomato,  bring 
to  a  quick,  sharp  boil,  and  a  delicious  sonp  ia  ready  for  eatbg.  . 

Chicken  Fricassee,  CaeAt, 
Cat  up  the  fowl  and  stew  tender  in  enough  cold  water  to  ennr 
iL    Poor  oS*  the  liquor  to  cool,  that  you  may  skim  off  the  &t.    Cut 


'lONG  BILLS  OF  PARE. 

>nes  in  neat  pieces  with  a  sliaip  knife.     Witk 

}ake-di5h,  cover  and  set  asHc.    Fat  two  tablfr 

o^nwui.ius  w.  uu.i,»*  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  in  it,  when  hot,  half 

ftu  onion,  sliced,  until  it  is  of  a  light  brown.     Strain   the   hot 

butter  into  a  bowl,  add  two  tablespooufuls  of  flour,  and,  when  yoa 

batter,  the  liquor  (strained  and  skimmed)  in  which  tho 

stewed.     Season  well  and  pour  upon  the  chicken. 

i  be  enough  liquid  to  fill  the  dish.    Set  in  the  oven, 

t  yon  mix  quickly  a  pint  of  prepared  flour  into  a  soft 

with  cold  water  or  milk  and  shortening.    Roll  ont 

talf  an  inch  thick,  cnt  into  round  cakes,  and  lay  these, 

[  one  another,  on  xhe  surface  of  the  chicken-gravy. 

the  oven,  and  bake  until  the  cakes  are  delicately 

"pttffir."    Serve  in  the  bakfr^h. 


Bbruuda  Onions,  SrcvreaxK 
nind  hole  in  the  npper  end  of  each,  dig  out  at  least 
ents ;  set  in  a  dish  covered  with  warm,  slightly  salted 
ing  to  a  simmer.  Throw  away  the  water ;  carefully 
1  with  minced  poultry  or  veal,  put  a  bit  of  butter  ii 
«vent  burning,  scatter  fine  crumbs  thickly  over  thh 
oke,  covered,  half  aa  hour. 

Potato  Croqusttss. 

iSaah  mealy  potatoes  to  a  soft  paste  with  milk,  and  a  Httle 

LAtter;   work  in  a  raw  egg,  well  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 

I  »T»nui  flour.    Mold  into  rolls,  rounded  at  the  ends,  dip  in  beaten 

in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  good  dripping  or  salted 

quettes  are  best  when  kft  to  get  cold  and  firm  before  they 

1     Drain  all  the  fat  fi9m  them  before  dishing. 


SPRING  BnXS  OP  FARB.  C99 

Chocolatb  Tripls. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  four  tablesixx>nfuls  of  Baker^s  chocolatCj 
that  flavored  with  vanilla,  if  you  can  get  it ;  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  sugar ;  six  eggs ;  one  pint  of  whipped  cream ;  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla ;  bit  of  soda. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  farina-kettle  with  the  soda  and  salt,  wet  up 
the  chocolate  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  in,  keej[)ing  the 
spoon  going  until  the  chocolate  is  dissolved.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  • 
together  in  a  bowl,  pour  the  hot  milk  and  chocolate  on  them,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  return  to  the  fire,  stirring  industriously.  When  it 
has  thickened  nicely,  pour  it  out,  flavor,  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 
Just  before  dinner,  turn  into  a  glass  bowl,  and  heap  on  top  the 
whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened.  Or,  if  you  have  custard  cups, 
nearly  fill  them  with  the  chocolate,  and  top  them  with  the  snowy 
cream.  This  is  a  pretty  dessert  Send  around  fancy  cakes,  or 
arrange  an  attractive  basket  of  alternate  slices  of  sponge  and  angel 


No.U 

BREAKFAST. 

Milk  Porridge; 
Brown  Stew  of  Liver.  Hgg  Gem^ 

Baked  Potatoes.         Bread  Toast 


Milk  Porridgs. 

One  pint  of  oatmeal ;  one  pixit^  each,  of  boiling  water  mA  mi). 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt 


[LLS  OP  PARS. 

1  hot  water,  stir  ynHf  and  leave  It  lU 

I  the  moming,  surround  with  boiling 
at  stirring ;  add  the  hot  milk,  s 


raw  OF  LtvwL 

alf  an  hour  in  cold  salt-and-water; 
are  bits ;  fry  half  a  sliced  onion  to  a 
out  the  onion,  add  a  tablespoonfnl  olf 
ir  to  a  smooth  roux,  adding  a  capful 
turn  all  into  a  saucepan,  put  in  the 
rater,  cover,  and  stew  v^  slowly  one 
rith  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  a  teaspoon- 
;  In  a  deep  dish. 

or;  thnt  cnp*  of  mllkt  thrM  eggs 

Ik,  flour  and  salt ;  beat  ftat  upward 
hot,  greased  gem  pans ;  bake  in  a 
made  by  this  recipe,  substltatiug 

Lidous. 

NCHBON. 

Brcnled  Smoked  Salmon. 

Sweetbread  Salad.  Oatmeal  Sconat. 

Bread.  Butter.  Pickles. 

Crackers  and  Cheese. 

loft  Gingerbread.  Chooolatft. 


—^ 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARB. 

Broilbd  Suoesd  Salicok. 

One  pound  of  smoked  salmon ;  two  tablespoonfnls  aS  bnttet ;, 
jnice  of  a  lemon ;  cayenne  pepper. 

Wash  and  soak  the  salmon  for  one  hour ;  wipe,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  into  strips  three  inches  long  and  an  inch  wide 
parboil  in  hot  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonfiil  o 
vinegar  and  four  or  five  whole  cloves.  When  it  has  simmered  fo 
fifteen  minutes,  drain,  wipe  dry,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  to  a  nio 
brown ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  squeeze  the  lemon  over  thi 
strips,  pepper,  and  serve. 

SvSItTBRBAD  SaXJU); 

Paxbc^  three  eweetbrcads  for  ten  minutes  in  &esh  hot  water; 
drain,  and  throw  them  into  ice-water  to  blanch  them ;  when  quite 
cold,  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water,  take  out,  wipe, 
and  set  where  they  will  cool  suddenly.  This  will  make  them  firm 
and  crisp.  Cut  into  round  slices.  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuce, 
lay  the  sliced  sweetbreads  on  the  leaves,  and  pour  a  majronnuM 
dressing  over  them. 

Oatmbal  Sconbs, 
Three  cups  of  oatmeal ;  one  pint  of  white  flour,  prepuod ;  <me 
(nut  of  boiling  milk ;  two  tahlespcKminls  of  bntter ;  half  t  tear 

spoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  oatmeal,  flour  and  salt  twice  together  Into  a  bowl,  melt  the 
butter  in  the  niill^,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  meal,  8ul,  and 
pour  this  in.  Stir  into  a  soft  dough  as  quickly  as  possible,  roll  into 
a  sheet  less  than  au  eighth  o£  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes, 
and  bake  on  a  hot  griddl*.  Buttar  while  hat  and  aerv*.  Thay  am 
good  cold,  alao. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 
Soft  Gingbrbrsad. 
Two  heaping  cups  of  floor ;  a  scant  half-cup  of  bntter ;  half-*t 
cup  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  molasses,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ; 
two  eggs;  one  dessertspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a  half-teaspoonfuV 
[lamon ;  a  quarter-teaspoouful  of  soda,  sifted  with  the  floor.    * 
ib  sugar,  molasses  and  batter  to  a  yellow  cream,  add  the 
the  beaten  yolks,  the  milk,  whites  and  flour.     Bake  in  tv» 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

DINNER. 

ream  Soup.  Glazed  Cod.  Larded  Chlckca. 

Cauliflower  with  Cream  Sauce. 
led  Potatoes.  Stewed  Carrots.  Fatima's  Paddings. 

Frnit  Cofiise. 

Crbau  Soup. 

One  quart  of  veal,  or  chicken,  or  mutton  stock ;  half  cup  of  raw 
rice ;  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  one  cupful  of  hot  milk ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  corn-«tarch  wet  up  with  cold  milk ;  salt,  pepper  and  minced 
parsley. 

Simmer  rice  and  stock  together  until  the  grains  are  soft ;  rub 
through  a  colander  or  sieve,  and  put  back  into  the  soup  pot ;  sea- 
son, stir  in  the  com-starch,  and  simmer  gently  while  you  beat  the 
yolks  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  milk ;  add  to  the  soup,  cook  one 
minute,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  serve  in  a  hot  tureen. 

Glazed  Cod. 
.  Out  a  steak  from  the  most  solid  part  of  the  fish,  lay  in  salt  and 
water  for  two  hours,  wipe  dry,  wash  with  vinegar  and  put  into  a 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

dripping-pan,  with  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water ;  turn  a: 
over  it,  and  steam  for  half  an  hour ;  remove  the  upper  pa 
butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  baste  twice  in  the  next  ten 
minutes  with  the  butter  and  water  in  the  pan ;  drain  this  off  into  a 
sauce-pan ;  wash  the  fish  over  with  two  beaten  eggs,  and  shut  up 
in  the  oven  for  a  minute  to  glaze ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  brown 
flour;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  half  a  glass  of  wine;  boil  up, 
pour  a  few  spoonfuls  about  the  cod  when  dished,  the  rest  into  a 
boat 

Lardbd  Crickbns. 
Draw,  wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  the  chickens ;  truss  as  for 
roasting ;  lard  the  breasts  with  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  iu  regular 
Hues  an  inch  apart,  each  lardoon  being  a  half  inch  from  the  next  in 
its  row ;  lay  the  chickens,  breast  uppermost,  in  a  dripping-pan, 
with  a  half  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  roast,  basting  often ;  allow 
about  twelve  minutes  to  the  pound ;  keep  the  chickens  warm  while 
you  mince  the  boiled  giblets,  and  stir  them  into  the  gravy  with  a 
thickening  of  browned  flour. 

Caui.ifi.ower  with  Cheese  Sauce. 
Boil  in  the  usual  way  when  done,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  poor 
over  it  a  sauce  made  by  heating  a  cup  of  milk,  stirring  into  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  cut  up  iu  one  of  prepared  flour,  and,  when  this 
thickens,  adding  three  great  spoonfuls  of  dry,  grated  cheese.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  and  a  dash  c^  cayenne. 

Fatima's  Pttodiho. 
One  half  pound  of  "  lady  fingers,'*  stale  enough  to  crumble  eaiHy ; 
one  quart  of  hot  milk;  six  eggs  ;  one  cupful  of  sugar;  grated  peel 


OP  FARB. 

sf  a  lemon ;  juice  of  two  oranges; 
;;beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the 
the  milk  and  crumbs.  Before 
c  custard  cups  (buttered)  ready 
in-door ;  add  the  orange  juice 
pour  into  the  cups,  and  shut  up 
)ur,  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish ; 
ablespoonfuls  of  batter,  stirred 
;  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  two 
ice  and  a  teaspoonfiil  of  grated 

id  sugar,  better  and  com-otareh, 
and  peel;  finally,  the  beaten 


L8. 
AST. 

Balred  Hah  Cake. 
Com  Cakes. 

Caflht. 


H  CaKB. 

■esh  cod  or  halibut;    a  cup  <A 

mashed  potatoes ;   half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs ;  a  cupful  of  drawn 

bntter,  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  paste ;  a 

tabl«8t>oonfiil  of  finely  cut  parsley,  and  half  as  much  minced  onion ; 

,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.     Mix  the  fish,  "  picked  "  evenly, 

8,  potato  and .  drawn  butter ;  seaison ;  put  into  a  butto^ 

and  set  in  the  oven,  covered,  fifteen  minutes;  sift  the 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  S' 

emmbs  on  top ;  stick  bits  of  butter  in  tbem,  and  brown  quick] 
Wash  over  with  beaten  egg,  shut  the  oven  for  a  minute,  and  sei 
the  cake  in  the  bake-dish. 

SCRAMBLBD  BGGS. 
Put  a.  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  gfill  of  milk,  a  sa 
salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  min< 
a  fiying-pan.  When  the  mixture  boils,  break  and  stu 
or  ten  eggs.  Beat  aud  stir  until  they  are  well  mixed, 
run  over  the  pan.  Line  a  dish  with  crustless  toast  i 
milk,  salted,  peppered  and  buttered,  and  pour  the  <^;g! 


Corn  Cakes. 

Three  even  cupfuls  of  white  Indian  meal ;  two  cu] 
buttermilk ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard ;  one 
of  sugar ;  two  taMespooufuls  of  flour ;  one  teaspoo 
three  eggs  well  beaten ;  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Sift  meal,  flour,  salt  and  soda  together  three  times  into  a  bowl^ 
mix  sugar  and  lard  in  the  boiling  water,  add  the  milk;  make  a  hole 
in  the  meal  and  flour,  and  put  this  in,  stirring  down  quickly.  Now, 
add  the  beaten  e^s,  and  whip  upward  hard,  until  you  have  a 
amooth,  light  battw.    Bake  in  greased  pat6  pans  at  <mce.   Bat  hot 


LUNCHEON. 

9t«amed  Clams.  String  B«aa  Salad  ' 

Cold  Meat  garnished  with  Parsley. 
foead.  Butter,  Crackers.  Friad  2 

Cocatina  and  Macaroons. 


OF  FARE. 


Pat  the  clams,  without  removing  the  shells,  in  your  steamer, 
lnying  them  flat,  that  the  juice  may  uot  escape ;  set  the  steamer 
over  a  pot  of  hoUing  water  shut  up  tightly,  and  keep  this  at  a  bard 
boil,  but  not  touching  the  clams,  half  an  hour.  Peep  in  then  to  see 
if  the  shells  have  opened.  If  not,  close  down  the  top  for  ten  min- 
utes more ;  take  out  the  clams,  pry  off  the  upper  shells,  and  arrange 
the  lower  (holding  the  clams)  on  a  flat  dish.  Lay  on  each,  a  sauce 
made  by  whipping  a  tablespoooful  or  more  of  butter  to  a  cream 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt,  and  a  touch 
of  cayenne.     Eat  hot,  with  warmed  crackers. 


String  Bean  Salad.    • 

'ake  a  cup  of  cold,  boiled  string  beans,  and  if  they  have  not 
cut  into  inch-lengths  before  they  were  cooked,  do  it  now ;  heap 
flat  dish ;  encircle  with  a  row  of  cold  boiled  beet  slices ;  on 
one  of  these  lay  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg ;  garnish  with  crisp 
ce  leaves  as  a  frill  and  send  arouud  mayonnaise  dressing  with 
rhis  will  make  a  pretty  and  palatable  dish. 


Fried  Bananas. 

_*are  a  dozen  bananas  and  cut  each  lengthwise  into  three  slices ; 
have  ready  a  batter  made  by  beating  two  eggs  light  with  half  a 
cupful  of  milk  and  four  tablespooufuls  of  prepared  flour,  slightly 
salted ;  dip  the  banana  slices  into  this  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  to  a 

jrown.    Drain  ofi"  the  grease  aud  serve  on  a  hot  dish  lined 

ite  paper. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  307 

DINNER. 

Chicken  Bisque.  Brisket  of  Beef  a  la  mode. 

Stewed  Com.  I/ixna  Beans. 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes.  Batter  Pudding. 

Cream  Sauce. 


Chicken  Bisque. 

An  old  fowl ;  a  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs ;  a  quarter  pound  of 
almondSy  blanched  and  dried  to  crispness ;  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
minced  onion,  and  the  same  of  parsley ;  a  cup  of  hot  milk ;  four 
quarts  of  cold  water ;  pepper  and  salt ;  two  raw  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Clean  and  boil  the  fowl  slowly  in  the  water,  until  the  flesh  slips 
fix)m  the  bones  ;  salt  and  pepper  it,  and  set  away  in  the  liquor  until 
next  day.  Skim  it,  then,  and  taking  out  the  fowl,  bone  and  mince 
the  flesh  fine.  Shred  the  almonds  into  minute  shavings,  mix  with 
the  chopped  meat,  onions  and  parsley,  and  put  all  into  the  broth 
when  you  have  strained  it  into  a  pot.  Simmer  gently  half  an  hour, 
taking  care  it  does  not  scorch;  add  the  cracker  crumbs,  then,  the 
beaten  eggs  when  you  have  stirred  them  into  the  hot  milk.  Take 
from  the  fire,  and  set  in  boiling  water  five  minutes,  covered,  before 
turning  into  the  tureen. 

Brisket  op  Beef  a  la  mode. 

Take  out  the  bones  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bind  the  beef  into 
shape  with  broad  tapes.  Make  incisions  quite  through  the  meat 
perpendicularly,  and  thrust  into  them  lardoons  of  fat  salt  pork. 
The  holes  should  be  less  than  an  inch  apart.  Lay  in  a  broad  pot, 
put  in  two  cupfuls  of  warm — not  hot — :water,  fit  on  a  tight  lid,  and 
cook  slowly  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound.    Take  up  the  meat,  and 


3o8  SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE. 

lay  in  the  dnpfing  paxL  Cover  the  top  an  inch  thidc  with  a  force- 
meat of  cmmbsy  fat  salt  pork,  a  dozen  finely-minced  oysters,  a  lea- 
spoonfol  of  chopped  onion,  and  pepper  to  taste ;  set  in  the  oven  long 
enongh  to  brown  sicely.  Meanwhile,  cool  and  skim  and  strain  the 
gravy ;  letnm  to  the  fire  in  a  sancepan,  thicken  with  browned  floor ; 
add  a  glass  of  wine,  and  a  teaspoonftil  of  French  mustard,  boil  up 
once  and  serve  in  a  boat. 


Stbwsd  Corn* 

Open  and  tnm  ont  a  can  of  com  three  honrs  before  nsing,  drain 
off  the  liquor  and  set  the  com  in  a  cold  place.  Half  an  hour  before 
dinner,  put  a  cup  of  boiling  water  in  one  of  milk  in  a  saucepan ; 
drop  in  a  bit  of  soda;  add  the  com  and  cook  gently  half  an  hour. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  in  a  tablespoonfnl  of  butter,  rolled  in 
one  of  flour,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 


LoiA  Beans. 

Canned  lima  Beans  are  heated  in  the  same  way  as  com,  only 
leaving  out  the  milk  and  flour.  They  should  be  drained  also  before 
the  butter  is  stirred  in* 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes. 

They  are  getting  soft  and  watexy  at  this  season.  Boil  them  fifteen 
minutes,  peel,  and  lay  in  the  oven  to  boke^  basting  them  with  but* 
ter  until  th^  are  of  a  fine  brown. 


Batter  PuDDnia 

Two  cups  of  Hecker^s  prepared  flour ;  three  cups  of  milk ;  font 
^S^ ;  a  quarterspoonful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonftU  each  of  lard  and 


SPRING   BILL3  OF  FARE.  309 

butter.  Chop  Uie  shortening  into  the  floor  with  the  stlt  turtO 
thoroughly  mixed.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  milk  to  them^ 
beat  in  the  flour  by  the  handful ;  pour  into  a  cake-mold  with  a 
fonnel  in  the  middle  and  bake  in  a  quick  oveiu 


Crbam  Saucs. 

One  cup  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaito 
to  a  meringue ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  corn-starch ;  vanilla  seasoning.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling, 
stir  in  sugar  and  floured  butter.  Boil  up  sharply,  withdraw  horn 
the  fiia  aiid  beat  in  meringue  and  flavoring. 


No.  la. 

BREAKFAST. 

Mush  and  Milk.  Oyster  Omelette. 

Waffles.  Stewed  Potatoes. 

Fmit  Oofifee.  Tea. 


Mush  and  Milk. 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal,  scalded  with  two  cups  of  boiling  water; 
one  quart  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ; 
stir  the  scalded  meal  into  the  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  in  a 
farina  kettle  for  at  least  an  hour.  You  cannot  cook  much  too  long ; 
now  and  then  beat  up  from  the  bottom  and  work  out  the  dots.  Serve 
in  an  open  dish.    Bat  wit^  milk  and  cream. 


Oyster  Omelette 

Six  eggSy  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  cream :  a  half  teaspoonfu]  ^f  com-staxrh  wet  with  the  cream ;  a  sail 


pc  T/yT/Z  2rLL£  C?  FAxR 


ipciOL^^jaJt  aikf  a  *^^ig^  c<  paper;  a 
Uest  T'.Cii  -retl  asfrr^j  tre  ecu  ard 

with  a  ttcsfora  r-.'/i.c  fr-.^  si^  to  sid^  Tir.ti!  the  center  is  ai 
*^  «et^  Tie  ^/y\^j:r%  ir^^/zli  hare  been  brs-Zfd  bcfire  yoa  began  tlic 
omelette*  To  d"/  tils,  ro!!  them  ia  fine  cnu:kcr  dost,  salted  and 
ptpptrtd^  hrrrl  qnkk!j  orer  a  clear  fiie,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  pot  a 
bit  of  }/ntter  Km  eacli,  ower  and  keep  hot  wliHe  the  omelette  is  oook- 
tn;^.  Whea  this  is  done,  Hne  one  half  of  it,  as  it  lies  in  the  pan, 
with  the  oysteri^  tcAd  the  other  over  it  dexteionsly  and  icveise  the 
frytflf-paa  ooickly  upon  the  heated  dish  in 


Wapfus. 

Three  scant  cups  of  milk ;  two  eggs ;  three  cnps  of  prepared 
flonr ;  one  heaping  tablespoonfnl  of  Imtter,  just  melted ;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Beat  the  tggn  very  light^  cream  butter  and  sugar,  and  put  them 
tn«  Add  the  milk,  then  salted  fioun  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  in 
well  greased  waffle-irons.  Tty  a  spoonful  of  bttter  first  to  test  it 
Andthent« 


Stbwbd  Potatobs. 

Peel^  and  cut  in  square  bits,  dropping  these  in  cold  water  as  ycm 
go  on.  Cook  tender  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Turn  oflf  half  of  this 
wbeu  they  are  nearly  done,  and  replace  with  a  like  quantity  of  hot 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  PARE.  311 

milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  tablespoonfnl  of  bntter  cnt  up 
in  flour.  Simmer  three  or  four  minutes,  pepper,  salt,  and  stir  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  finely  cut  parsley.     Boil  up  and  dish. 


LUNCHEON. 

RechaufiF6  of  Fish.  Tomato  Toast 

Bread  and  Butter.  Crackers  and  Cheese.  Rusk. 

Jam  or  Marmalade. 


Rechauffe  of  Fish. 

Pick  cold  boiled  cod  or  halibut  into  even  small  flakes ;  piit  into  a 
frying-pan  a  cup  of  boiling  water  (for  a  heaping  cupful  of  fish), 
season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  in  a  tablespoonfnl  of  butter 
cut  up  in  a  great  spoonful  of  flour.  As  it  simmers,  add  the  fish, 
toss  and  turn  with  a  fork,  and  when  smoking  hot,  put  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream.  It  should  be  just  stiff  enough  to  be  mounded 
in  the  middle  of  a  platter.  Have  ready  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs ;  spread  quickly  on  the  mound  and  set  the  dish  in  a  hot  oven 
long  enough  to  cook  the  meringue.  Garnish  with  lemons,  cut 
lengthwise  into  eighths. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Stew  a  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes  ten  minutes,  and  run  through  a 
colander.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar,  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  and  simmer  to  a  smooth  soft  pulp.  Another  ten 
minutes  is  enough.  In  another  vessel  scald  half  a  cup  of  hot  milk 
with  a  bit  of  soda  half  the  size  of  a  pea  dissolved  in  it,  stir  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  add  to  the  tomatoes,  and  pour  at  once  over  slices 
of  crustless  toast  buttered  well,  and  laid  on  a  heated  platter.     Let 


3M  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

k  stand  lime  Miuutw  before  mtvuiii^.    It  will  be  a  pleasing^  com- 
panion  disb  to  the  fisb. 


:id<-»>m: 


Crackers  and 

ICake  an  intermediate  course  of  these,  heating  the  crackera 
dightlyy  and  aenring  in  a  basket  lined  with  a  napkin.  With  olives, 
they  make  an  afxeeable  entr^acU^  and  add  elegance  to  a  plain 
InnchaoQ* 


Rusk* 

Poor  cnpa  of  milk;  fenr  tablespoonfols  of  yeast;  about  three 
cups  of  flour;  one  cup  of  butter;  two  cups  of  sugar;  three  eggs; 
a  very  little  cinnamon. 

Make  flour,  milk  and  yeast  into  a  sponge,  and  let  it  rise  over 
nighL  In  the  morning,  work  in  more  flour  (if  needed  to  make  a 
soft  dough),  add  the  eggs,  spice  and  butter  and  sugar;  (creamed) 
knead  for  five  minutes,  and  let  it  rise  for  four  hours  longer.  Break 
off  bits,  and  round,  with  floured  hand,  into  small  biscuits ;  lay 
dosely  together  in  a  baking  pan  and  set  for  a  third  rising  of  half  an 
hour,  or  until  they  are  light  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  covering 
with  paper  should  they  brown  too  fast  When  quite  done,  wash  the 
tops  lightly  with  butter  and  sugar  to  glaze  them.  Serve  fresh,  but 
not  hot,  and  pass  jam  or  marmalade,  and  if  you  can  get  it,  iced  milk 
with  them. 


DINNBIt 

« 

Black  Bean  Soup.  Pried  Shad  with  Sauce  Piquanta. 

Beefsteak  and  Onions.  Beets. 

Spinadi  on  ToasL  Rice  Cream.  Bruidied  PeachMi 

light  CakM.  Fruit  CoCms. 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB.  313 

Black  Bban  Soup. 

Four  cups  of  black,  or  purple,  or  "  mock-turtle  soup ''  beams ; 
two  quarts  of  stock,  in  which  corned  ham,  or  fat  salt  pork,  or  corned 
beef  has  been  cooked ;  one  onion,  chopped ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  celery;  one  great  spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  in  one  of  flour ; 
pepper ;  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Soak  the  beans  twelve  hours.  Skim  and  strain  the  stock,  and 
put  it  cold  at  the  back  of  the  range,  with  the  beans,  onion  and 
celery.  Give  it  plenty  of  time  to  cook,  and  for  two  hours,  do  not 
let  it  boil.  After  that,  take  care  it  does  not  bum.  When  the  beans 
are  broken  to  pieces,  turn  the  contents  of  the  pot  into  a  colander^ 
set  over  a  kettle  and  rub  the  beans  through  into  the  liquor  below* 
Return  to  the  fire,  stir  in  the  pepper,  sugar  and  floured  butter,  and 
simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Have  ready  dice  of  bread,  fried  crisp, 
and  slices  of  peeled  lemon  to  lay  on  the  surface  of  the  soup  in  thi 
tureen.    A  little  tomato  juice  is  an  improvement. 


Fribd  Shad  with  Sauce  Piquantb.    {A  handsome  dish.) 

Split  the  fish  as  for  broiling,  and,  with  a  sharp  knife,  divide  it 
into  pieces  nearly  as  wide  as  your  hand.  Roll  these  in  beaten  yolk 
of  egg,  when  you  have  salted  and  peppered  each, — then,  in  finely* 
powdered  cracker,  also  salted  and  peppered, — and  set  them  on  tht 
ice  for  three  or  four  hours.  Fry  them  in  deep  fat  to  a  yellow-brown, 
drain  off  every  drop  of  grease,  and  lay  lengthwise  on  a  hot  fish-dish. 

To  make  the  sauce,  beat  up  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  (strained),  mix  in, 
at  the  last,  the  same  quantity  of  finely-minced  parsley,  beating  all 

co^ether  until  the  sauce  is  greeu.    Have  rea^y  eight  half  lemoasi 


3>4  S 

empdbd  of  pulp  ax 

the  fish  when  dishi 
You  can  garais 


Broil  the  steak 
'tion  to  a  steak  whil 
bntter  lightlyj  ani 
onion  three  minul 
scorch.  Strain  th 
a.  lemon,  and  a  sail 
cover  again,  and  k 


Boil  whole,  wit 
three  hours  of  coo! 
dish ;  pour  over  tb 
two  tablespoonfiils 


Wash  and  pick 
utes  in  hot,  salted 
sancepan ;  heat,  a 
spoonful  of  sugar, 
Beat  until  it  bub1 
heat  again,  and  he 
of  boiled  egg  on  a 


R  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE.  3^5 

One  cup  of  rice  boiled  soft,  but  not  to  a  paste ;  two  cups  oi 
^^v^.  milk;    four  eggs;   a  cup  of   sugar;    vanilla  extract;   a  cup  of 

whipped  cream. 

Make  the  eggs,  milk  and  sugar  into  a  custard,  season  with 

vanilla.    Scald  the  milk  first,  pour  this  upon  the  beaten  eggs  and 

if^\^  sugar,  and  cook  until  it  thickens  well.    While  still  hot,  beat  in  the 

_...  rice,    season   with  vanilla,  and  let  it  get  cold  before  you  beat 

p  ,  in  the  whipped  cream.    Set  it  to  form  iu  a  wet  mold  on  ice.    When 

you  are  ready  for  it,  turn  out  on  a  glass  dish.    Pass  brandied  peaches 
and  light  cake  with  it 


^ 


cor. 


f  ^ 


'  thtz 


r. 


No  14.* 
BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (cold).  Liver  and  Baooa. 

^^'^  Stewed  Potatoes.  Commeal  Muffins. 

^/'^  Fruit  Tea.  Coffee. 

(fr: 


Iff 
I 


Oatmeal  Porridge  (Cold). 

Soak  a  cupful  of  oatmeal  five  or  six  hours  in  cold  water.  Drain, 
and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a  quart  of  warm  water  salted 
slightly ;  cook,  stirring  often,  and  adding  boiling  water  if  it  stiffens 
unduly,  for  at  least  an  hour.  Turn  out  into  small  cups  or  tumblers, 
each  holding  a  "  help  "  for  a  single  person.  Next  morning,  empty 
these  carefully  upon  a  flat  dish;  serve  in  saucers  and  eat  with  sugar 
and  cream. 


3r6  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

LivXR  AND  Bacon. 

Slice  the  liver,  and  lay  it  in  cold  salt-and-water  for  half  an  honri 
while  you  fry  slices  of  breakfast-bacon  in  a  clean  frying-pan  until 
they  are  clear  and  somewhat  crisp.  Take  those  out  and  keep  hot 
over  boiling  water.  Wipe  the  liver  dry,  pepper  and  salt  each  piece, 
and  roll  in  flour,  then  fry  to  a  fine  brown  in  the  fat  left  by  the 
bacon.  Shake  off  the  grease  when  all  are  done,  lay  .in  neat  order 
on  a  hot  platter  and  dispose  the  bacon,  garnish-wise,  about  it.  Some 
like  the  flavor  imparted  by  frying  a  little  sliced  onion  in  the  fat 
with  the  liver. 


CoRNMSAL  Muffins* 

Two  cups  of  commeal ;  one  cup  of  flour ;  two  eggs ;  two  cup« 

of  milk,  and  three  of  boiling  water ;  half  a  yeast  cake,  or  three 

tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard ;  a  heaping 

teaspoonfiil  of  salt ;  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.     Scald  the  meal  with 

the  boiling  water,  and  let  it  cool,  before  mixing  in  the  melted  lard, 

milk,  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  yeast  and  flour.     Beat  up  hard,  and  set 

it  to  rise  over  night.     In  the  morning,  half-fill  mufl&n-tins  with  the 

batter,  let  them  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  bake 
in  a  steady  oven. 


LUNCHEON. 

Baked  Omelette  with  Herbs. 
OftbbAge  Salad,  with  Boiled  Dreasiag . 
BrMdt  Butter.  Cheese.  Oli^ei. 

iaa  BlaT!ic-MaiM(e»  ,.« 


SPRING  BILLS  OP  FARE  317 

Baked  Omelette,  with  Herbs. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  light,  stir  in  with  them  three  table- 
gjwonfuls  of  milk,  in  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth  a  quarter-tea- 
spoonful  of  arrowroot.  Have  an  assistant  prepare,  meanwhile,  a 
pudding  or  pie-dish  by  melting  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  tender  cdeiy- 
tops  and  a  slice  of  onion.  All  must  be  finely  chopped.  Pepper  and 
salt  them  lightly.  Froth  your  whites,  set  your  bake-dish  in  the 
oven  until  the  butter  hisses ;  mix  yolks  and  whites  with  a  swift 
whirl  of  the  "  Dover ;"  pour  the  omelette  into  the  dish,  and  shut  up 
promptly  in  a  brisk  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  high,  and  the  middle 
^'  set,"  pass  a  knife  around  the  edge,  and  turn  out  on  a  hot-water 
dish.    Serve  and  eat  at  once. 


Cabbage  Salad,  with  Boiled  Dressing. 

Shred  the  heart  of  a  white  cabbage  fine  with  a  sharp  knife — b. 
chopper  bruises  it.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  must- 
ard, a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  pepper.  In  a  second 
vessel,  heat  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk ;  stir  into  it  two  beaten 
eggs,  and  cook  until  they  begin  to  thicken.  When  the  vinegar 
bolis,  pour  it  upon  the  shred  cabbage ;  put  all  back  into  the  sauce- 
pan, stir  one  minute  with  a  silver  or  wooden  fork,  add  the  boiled 
milk  and  eggs,  toss  and  stir  well,  turn  into  a  covered  bowl,  and  S6t 
where  it  will  cool  suddenly.    Serve  in  a  glass  dislu 


Farina  Blanc  Mange. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  two  eggs  ;  half  a  cupful  of  sugar. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  soaked  for  two  hours  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  it.  Half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Two  teaspoon* 
fuls  of  vanilla  essence  or  rose  water. 


SX«  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

Heat  the  mUk,  salt  and  sugar  it,  and  add  the  soaked  fiujne. 
Stir  and  cook  for  half  an  hour,  pour  it  upon  the  beaten  eggs,  beat 
all  well,  return  to  the  farina  kettle  and  cook  five  minutes,  stirring 
faithfully  to  prevent  lumping.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  flavoring 
and  set  te  form  in  a  mold  wet  with  cold  water.  Bat  with  cream  at&d 
sugaTi  or  custard. 

DINNBit 

Canned  Pea  Soup.  Stuffed  Halibut 

Curried  Chicken.     Rice.    Bananas.    Kidney  Beaat. 
Coooanut  Custard  and  Sponge  Cake. 
Fruit       Coffee. 


Cannbd  Pba  Soup     {Without  Afeai^. 

Open  a  can  of  American  peas,  drain  and  lay  them  in  cold,  salt 
water  for  half  an  hour.  Boil  them  soft  in  three  pints  of  hot  salted 
water,  with  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  stalk  of  celery.  A  sprig  of 
green  mint  improves  the  flavor.  When  broken  to  pieces,  rub  them, 
with  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked,  through  a  colander ;  put 
over  the  fire  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  two  heaping  tablespoonfulsr 
of  butter  rolled  in  three  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste  (which  may 
not  be  mine  or  your  neighbor's).  Simmer  and  stir  for  five  minutes, 
and  turn  into  a  tureen  in  which  is  a  handful  of  fried  bread<lioe. 


Stuffed  Haubut. 

Buy  a  thick  piece  of  halibut,  weighing  five  or  six  pounds,  and 
let  it  lie  in  salt-and-water  for  two  hours.  Wipe  it,  pass  a  sharp 
knife  down  to  the  bone  in  several  places,  and  thrust  into  the  cuts  a 


SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARR  319 

forcemeat  of  crumbs,  pork  minced  fine,  pepper  and  salL  Iray  m  a 
dripping  pan  and  cook  in  a  good  oven,  basting  for  the  first  half-houx 
with  butter-and-water,  afterward  with  its  own  gravy.  Five  pounds 
should  be  baked  in  about  an  hour.  Take  up  the  fish,  and  keep  hot 
Add  to  the  strained  gravy  from  the  dripping  pan,  the  juice  of  a 
temon,  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  paste,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rubbed  into  two  of  browned  flour  (more  boiling  water  if  needed)— 
boil  up  once  and  pour  a  little  over  the  fish,  the  rest  into  a  sauce* 
boat 


Curried  Chicrbn. 

Clean  and  joint  as  for  fricassee,  cover  with  cold,  weak  broth,  and 
stew  slowly  until  tender.  If  you  have  no  broth,  chop  a  quarter 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork  fine  and  cook  with  a  little  onion  in  three  cups 
of  water,  until  you  have  a  pint  of  liquid.  Strain  and  cool,  before 
pouring  over  the  jointed  fowl.  Ten  minutes  before  taking  it  up, 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  good  curry-powder,  wet  in  cold  water,  and 
simmer  gently.  Lay  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  gravy 
upon  it 

RiCB. 

Cook  a  cupful  of  raw  rice  in  a  generous  quart  of  boiling  water« 
without  stirring,  until  tender,  shaking  up  the  saucepan  vigorously 
several  times.  Drain  off  the  water,  salt  the  rice,  and  let  it  dry 
at  the  back  of  the  range  before  dishing  it  Give  a  portion  of  rice 
with  each  "  help  "  of  chicken,  pouring  the  curry  gravy  on  it 


Bananas. 

The  Bast  Indian  fashion  of  passing  cool  bananas  with  curried 
mesA  is  pleasant,  if  it  seems  odd  to  us.  They  are  a  grateful  adjunct, 
especially  to  palates  unused  to  the  pun£:ent  condiment 


3»«  SPRING  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

EiDHBY  Beans. 
Soak  a  pint  of  beans  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  mornifl|; 
exchange  this  for  tepid,  and,  two  hours  and  a-half  before  dinner- 
time, put  them  over  the  fire  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  skins  begin  to  break.  Turn  o£F  all  the  water,  put  a  clean 
cloth  on  the  beans  left  in  the  saucepan,  and  set  at  the  side  of  the 
range  to  keep  hot  until  you  are  ready  to  serve  them.  Put  into  a 
deep  dish,  pepper  and  salt,  stir  in  a  tablespoonfiil  of  butter,  and 
send  to  table. 

COCOANUT  CnSTAKD, 
Heat  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  farina  kettle.  Beat  the  yolks  of  &n 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  light ;  add  five  tablespoonfiils  of  sugar, 
and  pour  upon  these  scalding  milk,  stirring  as  you  do  so.  Set  over 
the  fire  again,  and  stir  twelve  or  fifteen  minntes,  or  until  the  custard 
begins  to  thicken.  Have  ready  in  a  bowl,  one-half  of  a  grated 
cocoanut,  and  pour  the  thickening  custard  upon  it,  stirring  them  up 
together.  Flavor,  when  cold,  with  rose-water  or  bitter  almond :  put 
into  a  glass  dish  and  lay  carefully  on  it  the  other  half  of  the  grated 
cocoanut.  On  this  spread  a  meringue  of  the  frothed  whites  of  three 
eggs  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Bat  witk 
sponge  cake. 

\ 


Summer  Bills  of  Fare. 

No.  15. 

BRJKAKFA8T. 

OuswkI  Porridge.  Mince  of  Ham  and  Bggs. 

French  Rolls. 

Baked  Potatoes.  Berricfi. 

Tea.  Coffee. 

Mmcs  OP  Hau  akd  Eggs. 
Chop  the  remnants  of  a  ham  which  will  no  longer  fhmish  slices 
for  the  table,  put  into  a  frying-pan  a  tablespoonfitl  of  butter  rolled 
in  browned  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  pepper  and  a 
garter  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Let  it  boil,  and  put  in  the  minced 
ham.  Stir  until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  pie-dish,  set  in  the  oven,  and 
break  on  the  surface  five  or  six  raw  eggs.  Shut  up  in  the  ovi^n  and 
bake  for  five  minutes,  just  long  enough  to  "set"  the  eggs.  Serv» 
is  the  pie  dish. 

Fmcnch  Rolls. 
One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  with  a  saUspoonful  of  salt  and  a  taft> 
spoonful  of  sugar;   two  cups  of  milk;    half-cake  of  comprewsd 
yeast ;  two  eggs ;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  batter. 


34a  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  I^ARE 

Chop  th«  batter  into  the  flour,  whip  the  eggs  light,  mix  witb 
the  milk  and,  making  a  hole  in  the  flour,  pour  in  the  milk,  working 
down  the  flour  from  the  sides  until  you  have  dough.  Now,  add  the 
yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water,  work 
briskly  and  lightly,  put  in  the  butter,  transfer  from  the  bowl  to  a 
floured  pastry  board  and  knead  for  ten  minutes,  still  handling  it 
briskly.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  mold  with  your 
hands  into  round  or  oval  rolls,  set  in  a  floured  pan  just  near  enough 
together  to  touch,  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  let  them  rise  for 
half  an  hour.  Gash  each  across  the  top  with  a  knife  before  they  go 
into  the  oven.    Bake  from  forty  to  forty-five  minutes. 


LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  Crabs.  Cold  Welsh  Rarebit 

Bread.  Crackers.  Olives. 

A  Sweet  Omelette.  Iced  Tea. 


Deviled  Crabs. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells  of  cold  boiled  crabs,  cut  it  fine, 
mix  with  it  a  tablespoonful  of  cracker-crumbs  for  every  five  spoon- 
fuls of  the  meat,  the  juice  and  a  pinch  of  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  crab  mixture  and  toss  about  with  a 
silver  fork  until  very  hot.  Fill  the  back  shells  of  the  crab  with 
this,  .stick  tiny  bits  of  butter  on  top,  sift  fine  crumbs  over  all,  and 
cook  to  a  light-brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Pretty  and  inexpensive 
dishes  of  colored  china,  imitating  the  shells  and  claws  of  crabs,  is 


SUMlilER  BILLS  OP  FARE.  3^3 

whicli  deviled  and  scalloped  crabs  may  be  baked,  are  for  sale  by 
crockery  dealers.  Serve  hot.  Pass  lemon  and  crackers  with  tliis 
dish. 


Cold  Welsh  Rarebit. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  a  mixture  of  a  cupful  of  dry 
grated  cheese  worked  to  a  creamy  paste  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Cut  each  slice  in  half  and  fold  upon  itself,  the  mixture  inside.  Pare 
the  crust  from  the  bread  before  spreading  it. 


A  Sweet  Omelette. 

Beat  seven  eggs  to  a  froth,  whipping  in,  at  the  last,  a  table^ 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Heat  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  shake  with  an  easy,  regulai 
motion,  always  in  the  same  direction — from  side  to  side,  or  to,  and 
from  you — until  the  omelette  is  "  set,"  and  begfins  to  curl  over  at 
the  edges  in  the  line  of  the  motion.  Draw  to  the  side  of  the  stove, 
cover  quickly  with  currant  or  other  jelly,  and  roll  up  as  you  would 
a  sheet  of  paper,  inclosing  the  jelly.  Lay  on  a  hot  dish,  sift  pow- 
dered  sugar  over  the  roll,  and  serve  immediately. 


Iced  Tea. 

Make  in  the  usual  way;  do  not  let  it  get  cold  on  the  leaves,  but 
strain  it  oflf  at  the  end  of  ten  minutes  after  the  boiling  water  is 
potired  on,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  In  using  it,  put  twp  or  three 
lumps  of  sugar  in  a  glass ;  half  fill  it  with  broken  ice,  pour  in  the 
tea  and  stir  rapidly  until  the  sugar  melts.  It  is  a  delicious  am  1 
refreshing  beverage. 


324  •DIOIBR  BILLS  OF  PARB. 


DINNBR. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 
WhitefisK  Fresh  Beef's  Tongue  au  graim. 

String  Beans.         Potatoes  au  Geneve. 
Oan  Statch  Ciutaxd.  Pineapple  Sliced,  \rftli  Wine 


Mock  Turtlb  Souf. 

A  calf's  head  dressed  with  the  skin  on ;  four  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  twice  as  much  browned 
flour;  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  strained  through  a  sieve ;  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  one  sliced  lemon ;  a  teacupful  of  brown  sherry ;  peppei 
and  salt  to  taste ;  a  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  powdered ;  a  raw  egg. 
Boil  the  head  slowly  for  four  hours  and  let  it  get  cold  in  the  liquor. 
Take  it  out  and  cut  the  flesh  from  the  bones.  Set  aside  the  fleshy 
parts  of  the  cheek  with  the  tongue,  to  be  cut  into  dice,  and  divide 
the  rest  into  two  parts  when  you  have  chopped  it  fine.  Return 
one-half  to  the  skimmed  liquor  with  the  bones,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  heat  slowly.  Make  the  other  into  forcemeat  with  the  brain, 
binding  it  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  seasoning  well.  Roll  into  balls 
with  floured  hands  ;  set  in  a  quick  oven  to  harden,  and,  when  a  firm 
coat  forms  on  the  outside,  take  them  out  and  set  them  away  to 
cool.  Rub  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve.  When  the  soup  has 
cooked  for  one  hour,  strain  out  bones  and  meat ;  put  back  over  the 
fire  with  the  tomatoes,  and  while  it  heats,  make  a  "  roux ''  in  the 
frying-pan  of  the  butter  and  flour,  stirring  to  a  smooth,  brown,  oil* 
like  mixture,  then  thinning  with  a  few  spoonfuls  from  the  soup- 
kettle.  Add  the  spice,  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  all  into  the  soup 
Cook  a  few  minutes  at  a  sham  boil«  put  ^n  the  meat-dice  and  ItniML 


Sm/MKR  BILLS  OF  FARlt  32s 

Tea  minutes  later,  drop  in  the  balls,  after  which  the  aoup  shoiild 
rot  boil.  The  wine  goes  in  just  before  tliQ  sonp  is  poorad  into  tho 
tureen.     The  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  are  an  improvement. 

Much  of  the  excellence  of  this  most  popular  of  soups  dependB 
on  the  seasoning.  If  this  is  judiciously  done,  obedience  to  the 
directions  given  will  result  in  success — and  delight.  It  is  even 
better  the  second  day  than  the  first. 


Fried  Whitkfish. 

Clean,  without  splitting,  salt  and  pepper  them,  roll  in  commeal 
or  flour,  and  fry  in  cleared  dripping  or  in  sweet  lard.  Drain  oflF  the 
fat  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 


Fresh  Beef's  Tongue  augratin. 

Boil  for  ail  hour,  lay  on  a  dish  and  skin  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Rub,  while  hot,  with  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  with  a  little  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  j^epper ;  put  into  a  dripping  pan,  sift  fine  crumbs  all 
over  it  thickly,  pour  1.  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  soup-stock  into  the  pan  to 
prevent  burning,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  wetting  carefully, 
several  times  with  the  gravy  from  the  pan.  For  sauce  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed  up  with  the  liquor  In  wWch  the 
tongue  was  cooked,  to  that  left  in  the  dripping  pan,  pepper  and  salt 
to  ^aste ;  boil  one  minute,  and  pour  into  a  gravy  boat. 


String  Beans. 

String  them  on  both  sides  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  into  inch 
lengths,  and  cook  tender  in  hot  salted  water.   The  time  will  depend 
on  the  age  and  size :  drain  well,  stir  butter,  pepper  and  salt  throogb 
them,  and  dish. 


336  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Potatoes  au  Geneve. 

Boil  and  mash  a  dozen  potatoes,  making  them  soft   A'ith  milk 

4 

and  butter,  heap  on  a  pie-plate  in  a  smooth  mound,  scoop  out  a 
cupful  from  the  center  of  the  heap,  leaving  a  conical  cavity ;  glaze 
the  inside  of  this,  and  the  outside  of  the  mound  with  white  of  eggj 
and  set  in  a  quick  oven  to  harden  the  glaze.  Meanwhile,  beat  into 
a  small  cupful  of  melted  butter  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese, 
the  whipped  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  and 
Btir,  and  when  thick  and  hot,  pour  into  the  crater  of  the  mound. 
Sift  fine  crumbs  upon  the  sauce ;  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly 
and  send  to  table. 


Corn  Starch  Custard. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  four  eggs ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  com 
starch ;  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  a 
little  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Scald  the  milk,  wet  up  the  com  starch  with  cold  milk,  salt  it, 
and  stir  into  the  boiling,  until  it  is  thick  and  free  from  lumps. 
Take  it  oflF,  beat  in  the  butter  and  let  it  get  almost  cold  before 
whipping  in  the  frothed  eggs,  the  sugar  and  spice.  Beat  well*  and 
long,  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  bake  to  a  yellow-brown ; 
sift  sugar  over  it  when  perfectly  cold,  and  eat  with  cream,  or  with 
brandied  peaches. 

PiNBAPPLE  SUCED,  WITH  WiNE. 

Pare  and  cut  the  fruit  into  dice,  put  a  layer  in  a  glass  dish, 
sugar  well,  and  wet  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sherry ;  more  frait, 
more  sugar  and  wJne,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Strew  sugar  over  the 
top,  set  on  ice  and  eat  within  an  hour  after  the  dish  is  prepared,  as 
the  wine  toughens  the  fruit. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  3^7 

No.  16. 

BREAKFAST. 

Hominy.  Stewed  Eels  a  la  Franchise. 

Farina  Waffles.  Savory  Potatoes. 

Berries.  Cofiee.  Frothed  Choeolate. 


Stewed  Eels  a  la  Francazse. 

.  Clean,  skin  and  cut  the  eels  into  pieces  two  inches  long,  lay  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  minced  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  teaspoon* 
ful  of  minced  onion,  a  tablespoouful  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  pepper,  salt  and  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 
Cook  gently  until  tender ;  take  up  the  fish  with  a  perforated  spoon, 
keep  hot  on  a  chafing  dish  while  you  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  it 
with  flour  and  boil  it  three  minutes.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  stir  into 
the  sauce  quickly,  and  remove  from  the  fire  before  they  curdle. 
Pour  over  the  eels,  and  serve. 

Farina  Waffles. 

One  cup  cold,  boiled  farina ;  half-cup  of  prepared  flour ;  otte 
pint  of  milk ;  two  eggs ;  one  tablespoouful  of  lard ;  salt. 

Rub  the  farina  smooth  with  the  melted  lard,  work  in  milk  and 
salt,  beat  hard  before  adding  the  flour  and  eggs,  and  afterward.  The 
batter  should  be  light  and  lunipless.     Bake  in  greased  waffle-irons. 


Savory  Potatoes. 

Mince  a  quarter  pound  of  fat  salt  pork ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  onion,  and  a  tablespoouful  of  minced  parsley,  eight  pota- 
toes, peeled  and  quartered ;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  until 
the  potatoes  are  done.  Drain,  mash,  mound  on  a  pie  plate,  sift 
crumbs  over  them  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


328  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Frothed  Chocolate- 
Make    in  the  usual  way^   turn  into  a  hot  bowl,  and  with  a 
"  Dover "  egg-beater,  whisk  in  the  frothed  wliites  of   thiee  eggs. 
Pour  into  the  heated  chocolate  pot,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


LUNCHEON. 

Mince  of  Chicken  and  Eggs.  Shrimp  Salad. 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter.  Crackers. 

Cheose.  Olives.  Hucklebeny  Cake. 


MiNCB  OF  Chicken  and  Egos. 

Chop  cold  boiled  or  roasted  fowl ;  mix  up  with  a  cupful  of  drawn 
butter,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  pour  into  a 
bake-dish.  Set  in  the  oven  until  a  skin  forms  on  top,  and  the  sur- 
face shakes  with  the  ebullition  of  the  heated  heart.  Lay  as  many 
poached  eggs  on  top  as  will  lie  easily  in  the  dish,  and  serve. 


Shrimp  Sai.ad. 

Open  a  can  of  shrimps  some  hours  before  you  want  to  use  them, 
and  turn  upon  a  dish.  Set  on  ice  until  needed.  Line  a  salad  bowl 
or  a  broad  salver  with  leaves  of  cool,  crisp  lettuce  ;  lay  the  shrimps 
on  them,  and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  on  the  fish,  or  send  it 
around  with  the  salad.    A  popular  dish  in  hot  weather. 


Thin  Bread  and  Butter. 

Cut  fresh  Graham  bread  thin,  when  you  have  buttered  the  end 
of  Uie  loaf  before  cutting  each  slice ;  pare  oS  the  crust,  and  pile 
on  a  folded  napkin  in  a  plate. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OP  FARE*  389 

HUCKLEBBRRY  CakE. 

Two  cups  o£  sugar ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  three  cups  of  Hecker's 
prepared  flour ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  five  eggs ;  one  teaspoonfiil  of 
nutmeg,  and  one  of  cinnamon ;  one  quart  of  huckleberries. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  in  the  whipped  yolks,  the  spice, 
milk,  flour,  the  frothed  whites,  finally,  the  berries,  dredged  whitely 
with  flour,  breaking  them  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  in  shallow 
tins  or  in  pat6-pans.     It  is  better  the  second  day  after  it  is  baked. 


DINNER. 

Tomato  Soup.  Lobster  Pat6s. 

Beef  Roast  a  I  ^Orleans.        New  Potatoes.        Young  Onions. 

Banana  Ice  Cream.  Cake.  Coffee. 


Tomato  Soup. 

Two  quarts  of  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced ;  three  pints  of  broth- 
veal  or  chicken  is  best ;  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  minced  onion ;  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste ;  browned  flour  thickening ;  a  tablespoonful  of 
ibutter ;  fried  bread  dice. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  in  the  broth  until  they  are  broken  all  to  pieces, 
add  herbs  and  onion,  stew  twenty  minutes,  rub  through  a  colander, 
season,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  rubbed  in  one 
of  butter;  boil  two  minutes,  and  pour  upon  the  fried  bread  in  the 
tnxMii. 


Lobster  Pates. 

Meat  of  one  large  lobster,  or  two  small  ones  ;  two  cups  of  veal 
broth ;  two  tablespoonfuls   of  butter :  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 


,  » 


38©  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

juice  of  a  lemon ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
with  the  butter ;  salt  and  cayenne  to  liking  ;  puff  paste  for  shelL 

Heat  the  broth  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  stir  in  the  buttered  flour ; 
put  in  the  lemon-juice  and  seasoning,  the  beaten  yolks,  the  lobster , 
cut  up  small,  and  set  in  boiling  water  over  the  fire  ten  minutes, 
stirring  now  and  then*  Have  ready  pat6-pans  lined  with  pastry, 
baked  in  a  brisk  oven,  slip  out  the  "  shells,'*  fill  with  the  hot  lobster 
mixture,  set  in  the  oven  three  minutes,  and  serve.  If  you  do  not 
care  to  take  the  trouble  of  pastry-making  in  hot  weather,  buy 
empty  pat6^hells  from  a  pastiy  cook,  heat  and  fill  them  with  the 
kbster  miztuiie.     This  is  an  elegant  snpper-dish,  as  well  as  an 


BSBV  Roast  a  TOrUamt. 

K 

A  xoUed  rib  toast  is  best  for  this  purpose.  The  night  before  you 
mean  to  cook  it,  put  into  a  broad  pan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad 
oil,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  a  dozen  whole  pepper- 
corns, and  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon.  Lay  the  roast  in  this,  and  at 
the  end  of  two  hours,  turn  it  over,  anointing  the  edges  well  with  the 
sauce.  In  the  morning,  turn  it  again.  When  ready  to  cook  it,  put 
into  the  dripping-pan,  dash  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  over  the  top^ 
and  as  it  heats,  baste  with  the  sauce  in  which  it  has  lain  over  night, 
mingled  with  hot  water  and  strained.  Cook  ten  minutes  to  the 
pound,  and  just  before  taking  it  up,  baste  all  over  with  butter,  sifl 
flour  on  the  top,  and  as  soon  as  this  froths  and  browns,  transfer  the 
«eat  to  a  hot  dish.    Garnish  with  water-cressea 


New  PoTATOBS. 

Aire  so  indigestible  until  fully  grown  that  to  advise  cooking  them 
is  like  recommending  a  die(  of  boiled  h'tUets.    When  ripe — ^and 


— — ^ 


SUMMER  BILI^  OP  FARE.  331 

not  until  then — ^they  are  a  valuable  contribution  to  a  Summer  bill 
of  fare.  Rub  the  skins  oflf  with  a  coarse  towel,  wash  in  cold  water 
and  drop  into  boiling,  a  little  salted ;  cook  fast  for  twenty  minutes ; 
turn  o£f  the  water,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  set  at  the  back  of  the 
range  in  an  uncovered  pot  to  dry  off  into  mealiness. 


Banana  IcbX^rbam. 

One  quart  of  milk  and  the  same  of  rich,  sweet  cream ;  three 
cups  of  sugar ;  six  eggs ;  six  large,  ripe  bananas,  peeled  and  cut 
up  small ;  bit  of  soda  in  the  milk. 

Heat  the  milk  to  scalding ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and 
pour  the  hot  milk  over  them  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time ;  set 
over  the  fire  in  a  farina  kettie,  and  stir  until  well-thickened.  Let  it 
get  cold ;  mix  in  the  cream ;  put  it  into  an  ice-cream  chum,  and 
when  half  frozen,  put  in  the  minced  banana  and  freeee  haxA^ 


No.  17- 
BREAKFAST. 

mik  MusK  Tom  Thumb  Omdettet. 

Buttered  Potatoes.  Rye  Muffins. 

Fruit  Tea.  Cofiee 


Milk  Mush. 

Three  cups  of  hot  milk ;  one  cup  of  boiling  water ;  one  scant 
Cttp  of  white  Indian-meal ;  oue  even-teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Scald  the  salted  meal  with  the  boiling  water,  and  stir  into  the 
hot  milk ;  boil  in  a  farina-kettie  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time ;  beat  hard  at  the  last,  and  serve  in  an  uncovered  dish.  Bat 
^ith  sujB:ar  and  cream. 


3VB  SUMMER  BILLS  OP  FARE. 

Tom  Thumb  OMLSTTsa. 

Bight  eggs ;  half  cup  of  rich  milk ;  salt  and  pepper;  a  taU^ 
tpoonfdl  of  cheese. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  season,  stir  in  the  milk  and  grated  cheese. 
Half  fill  eight  pat6-pans,  buttered,  and  set  in  a  dripping  pan  with  half 
an  inch  of  boiling  water  in  it ;  shut  up  in  a  hot  oven,  and  as  soon 
as  they  are  "  set,"  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish.  You  may  vary  the  dish 
by  substituting  minced  parsley  and  th3rme  for  the  grated  cheese, 
and  when  dished,  pour  drawn  butter  over  the  omelettes.  They 
make  a  pretty  show  when  garnished  with  curled  parsley,  a  tiny 
sprig  being  stuck  in  the  middle  of  each  mold 


BUTTSRSD  POTATOSSL 

BoH  with  the  skins  on ;  peel  carefully ;  lay  in  a  heated  bake- 
dish;  butter  plentifully;  pepper  and  salt;  cover,  and  set  in  the 
oven  ten  minutes,  rolling  them  over  in  the  melted  butter  several 
times.  Remove  with  a  split  spoon  to  a  hot  deep  dish ;  add  half  a 
cup  of  hot  milk  to  the  butter  left  in  the  bake-dish,  stir  well  and 
pour  boiling  hot  over  the  potatoes. 


Ryb  Muppins. 

Three  cups  of  rye  flour ;  one  cup  of  Indian-meal ;  one  cup  of 
hot  water,  and  three  of  lukewarm  milk ;  an  even  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  full  one  of  lard ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  one  of  salt  sifted  three  times  with  flour  and  meal ;  three  eggs, 
ymll  beateiu 

Sifk  meal,  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  three  times  together  in 
a  bowl ;  dissolve  lard  and  sugar  in  the  boiling  water ;  add  the  milk 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  '         333 

•»d  wet  up  the  dry  mass ;  lastly,  beat  in  the  eggs,  whipped  to  a 
froth ;  stir  hard  for  one  minute  and  bake  in  small  tins  or  in  muffin 
tings  on  the  griddle. 

LUNCHEON. 

Curried  Lobster. 
Pickled  Lambs'  Tongues  with  Mayonnaise. 

Buttered  Brown  Bread. 
Oatmeal  Crackers  with  Roquefort  CheesCi 

Junket  and  Cake. 


Curried  Lobstbr. 

Meat  of  a  large  lobster,  or  of  two  small  ones,  or  the  contents  of 
a  can  of  preserved  lobster ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  half  a  cup 
of  strained  oyster-liquor ;  half  a  glass  of  wine ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder ;  half  a  cup  of  raw  rice ;  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  grated 
lemon-ped. 

Soak  the  rice  three  hours,  then  salt,  and  cook  it  in  enough  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  it  well,  shaking  up  from  time  to  time ;  when 
tender,  drain  oflF  all  the  water,  and  set  at  the  back  of  the  range  to 
dry  oflf  the  rice;  dish  hot;  heat  butter  and  oyster-juicfe  together, 
season  with  curry  and  lemon-peel ;  add  the  lobster,  cut  into  half-inch 
Wts,  toss  lightly  with  a  silver  fork  until  very  hot,  put  in  the  wine 
and  turn  upon  a  heated  dish  ;  in  helping,  put  a  spoonful  of  rice  on 
each  plate,  another  of  lobster  upon  iL 


Pickled  Lambs*  Tongues  with  Mayonnaise. 

Split  and  lay  the  tongues  in  the  center  of  a  broad,  cool,  china 
dish ;  about  them  set  thickly  crisp  lettuce  leaves ;  have  in  a  ^'fancy 


334  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

bowl  or  pitcher  plenty  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  In  helping,  lay  o« 
each  plate  first,  a  curled  leaf  of  lettuce,  within  it,  half  a  tongue,  aad 
pour  a  generous  spoonful  of  the  dressing  over  both. 


Oatmbal  Cracksrs. 

Two  cups  of  oatmeal,  and  one  of  prepared  flour ;  half  cup  of 
butter  chopped  up  with  the  meal  and  flour ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
two  cups  of  cold  water. 

Mix  into  a  pretty  stiff  paste,  roll  into  a  thtn  sheet,  cut  out  as 
you  would  biscuits,  and  bake  on  a  gfriddle,  turning  when  the  under* 
aide  is  brown ;  leave  them .  in  a  cooling  opeii  oven  all  night  to  dry. 


JUOTOPT. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  milk ;  one  tablespoonfal  of  liquid 
net ;  half  a  glass  of  sherry. 

Stir  all  well  together,  and  leave  in  the  kitchen,  covered  to  keep 
out  dust  and  flies,  until  it  is  like  freshly-loppered  milk,  then  set  on 
ice  until  you  are  ready  for  it.  If  left  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  too 
long,  it  will  break  into  curds  and  whey.  Bat  with  cream  and  sugar. 
Pass  cake  with  it. 


DINNBR. 

Calf's  Feet  Soup  with  Poached  Eggs. 

Potted  Ducks.  Potatoes  a  la  Napolilaine. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant  Shrimp  and  Cheese  Salad. 

Charlotte  a  la  Rqyale.  Brandied  Peaches. 

Coffiac* 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  l^ARE.  $$s 

Calf's  Fi^iet  Soup  with  Poached  Eggs. 

Two  pairs  of  calf's  feet;  lialf  an  onion,  two  sprigs  of  thyme, 
and  the  same  of  parsley  ;  a  blade  of  mace ;  salt  and  pepper ;  glass 
of  sherry ;  a  slice  of  lean,  corned  ham ;  three  quarts  of  cold  water ; 
six  eggs. 

Put  feet,  herbs,  ham,  onion  and  water  over  the  fire,  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Season,  and  set  away 
with  the  meat  in  it.  On  the  morrow,  skim,  take  out  the  fat  and 
strain  the  broth.  Put  on  the  range  in  a  soup-pot,  and  when  hot, 
throw  in  the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg.  Boil  slowly  five  minutes, 
strain  through  a  double  bag  without  pressing,  heat  again,  add  the 
wine,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Poach  six  eggs  neatly  and  lay  on 
the  surface. 


Potted  Ducks. 

4'm  ♦ 

m 

Clean,  wash  well,  and  truss  without  stuflSng,  tying  down  legs 
and  wings  with  tape.  Fry  half  a  dozen  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp  in  a 
broad-bottomed  pot,  with  half  an  onion,  sliced,  and  a  little  powdered 
sage.  Lay  in  the  ducks,  cover  with  warm — ^not  hot — ^water,  fit  on 
a  lid,  and  cook  very  slowly  and  steadily  three  hours.  Take  up  the 
ducks,  undo  the  tapes,  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish.  Strain  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  brown  flour ;  boil  up  sharply,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls 
over  the  fowls,  the  rest  into  a  gravy-boat.  Send  around  tart  jelly 
with  them. 

Potatoes  a  la  Napolitatne. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Cut  into 
quarters  lengthwise,  pack  in  a  bake-dish,  salt  and  pepper  them, 
pour  in  a  cup  of  milk  into  which  you  have  dropped  a  tiny  bit  of  soda ;. 
strew  among  the  quarters  a  tablespoon ful  of  butter  cut  into  bits  aod 


336  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  PARE. 

lolled  in  flour ;  aIm,  a  little  finely-cut  parsley.  Set  in  a  dripping 
pan  of  hot  water,  fit  a  tight  cover  on  the  bake-dish  and  cook  t«n 
der,  say  about  forty-five  minutes.    Serve  in  the  diah. 


Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Parboil  for  fifteen  minutes,  if  large ;  for  ten,  if  small.  Make  an 
incision  in  one  side,  and,  inserting  your  finger,  scrape  out  the 
seeds ;  prop  open  the  slit  with  a  stick  and  lay  in  ice  cold  salt  and 
water  for  an  hour,  then  stuflF  with  a  paste  of  bread  crumbs,  minced 
fat  pork,  a  little  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter ;  bind  with 
tape  and  lay  in  the  dripping  pan ;  pour  in  a  cupftil  of  boiling  water, 
and  as  it  bakes,  wash  over  with  butter-and-water.  When  a  straw 
will  penetrate  easily,  take  up  the  egg-plant,  remove  the  tape,  anoint 
well  with  butter,  strew  fine  crumbs  over  it,  and  set  in  a  tin  plate — 
the  cut  side  downward — on  the  top  grating  of  the  oven  to  brown 
lightly.    Slice  when  served,  cutting  clear  through  and  crosswise. 


Shrimp  and  Cheese  Salad. 

One  can  of  pickled  shrimps ;  one  cupful  of  dry,  grated  cheese ; 
^alt,  pepper  and  vinegar ;  mayonnaise  dressing ;  lettuce. 

Mince  the  shrimp  rather  coarsely,  mix  with  the  cheese,  wet  with 

a  little  vinegar— two  tablespoonfuls  should  do — ^in  which  have  been 

stirred  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  mound  in 

he  center  of  a  dish,  surround  with  crisp  lettuce,  and  send  around 

mayonnaise  dressing  with  it. 

Charlotte  a  la  Rqyale. 

One  package  of  gelatine ;  a  quart  of  milk — ^half  cream  if  you 
can  get  it;  six  eggs;  a  cup-and-a-half  of  sugar;  a  saltspoonful  cA 
salt ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract ;  a  sponge  cake  sliced,  oi 
a  pound  of  lady-fingers. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  337 

Soak  the  gelatine  three  hours  iu  a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  heat  the 
milk  (not  forgetting  the  bit  of  soda)  in  a  farina-kettle,  and  when 
hot,  stir  in  the  gelatine.  When  it  is  quite  dissolved,  pour  on  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  beaten  light ;  set  in  cold  water  until  cooL  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiflF  froth,  add  the  congealed  "  jaune  mange,^*  spoon- 
ful by  spoonful,  beating  steadily  until  you  have  a  light  yellow 
sponge,  flavoring  with  vanilla  as  you  work.  Line  a  glass  dish  with 
cake,  put  in  the  sponge,  cover  with  more  cake  and  set  on  ice  until 
needed.    Pass  brandied  peaches  with  it 


No.  18. 

■ 

BREAKFAST. 

Molded  Wheat  Germ  Meal  Porridge. 
Scalloped  Codfish,  with  Cheese.  Buttermilk  Biscnit. 

Chopped  Potatoes. 
Fruit  Tea.  Coffee. 


Molded  Wheat  Germ  Meal  Porridge. 

Make  the  porridge  as  before  directed,  but  over  night,  and  mold 
in  in  cups  wet  with  cold  water.  In  the  morning  turn  them  out,  and 
eat  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  cream  only. 


Scaixofbd  Codfish  with  Cheese. 

Soak  a  pound  of  salted  codfish  six  hours  in  tepid  water,  ther 
boil  it.  When  cold,  pick  into  flakes  with  a  fork  and  season  with 
pepper.  Heat  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  boil,  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  rolled  in  two  of  prepared  flour ;  mix  with  the  picked  fish,  aad 


338 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 


pour  into  a  bake  dish.  Strew  grated  cheese  thickly  on  top,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.  It  is  yet  nicer  if  you  add 
a  raw  ^g  to  the  mixture  before  cooking  it« 


Buttermilk  Biscuit. 

One  qnart  of  flour ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  three  times 
with  the  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  pint  of  really  sour 
buttermilk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

Sift  flour,  soda  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  stir  butter  and  milk 
together,  and  pour  into  a  hole  in  the  flour.  Mix  quickly,  and  with 
as  little  handling  as  possible.  Be  careful  on  this  point,  also,  not  to 
get  the  dough  too  stiff.  Have  your  oven  ready  and  hot.  As  soon 
as  the  biscuits  are  cut  out,  put  them  in  and  bake.  They  are  excel- 
lent if  mixed — as  the  successful  painter  did  his  colors — "  with 
brains.''  A  heavy  hand  and  heavy  wits  can  result  in  nothing  but 
soddm  solidity* 


Choppbd  Potatoes. 

Mince  cold  boiled  potatoes  coarsely  with  a  sharp  chop])er,  and 
stir  with  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  and  three  times  as 
much  parsley,  into  a  little  hot  dripping.  Toss  until  hot  all  through, 
and  dish  at  onoCt 


LUNCHEON. 


Pat£s  de  Veau. 
(^t^mmii%  Sandwiches. 


Tomato  Salad. 

Berries  and  Cream. 


Cocoanut  Cake.        Iced  Cofiee. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARB.  339 

Pates  de  Veau. 

Mince  one  pound  of  cold  roast,  or  boiled,  veal  with  half  as  much 
ham.  Season  sharply  with  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Wet  with 
enough  gravy,  or  soup  stock  to  make  a  soft  mince,  and  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  fine  crumbs.  Line  pat6-pans  with  pastry,  and 
bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Slip  from  the  tins  while  hot,  fill  with  the  hot 
"  mince,''  sift  crumbs  on  top,  stick  a  bit  of  butter  in  each,  and  brown 
lightly  on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven. 


Tomato  SaulD. 

Peel  ripe  tomatoes  with  a  sharp  knife,  slice  crosswise,  lay  in  a 

salad  bowl,  and  season  on  the  table  with  salt,  a  little  sugar,  pepper, 

oil  and  vinegar.     Keep  the  tomatoes  on  ice  until  actually  served. 

They  csmnot  be  too  cold.     Never  loosen  the  skins  by  pouring  boil- 
ing water  on  them,  and  refrain  as  scrupulously  from  serving  them 

with  the  skins  on. 

Chicken  Sandwiches. 

Pare  the  crust  from  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  cut  them  into  trian- 
gles of  uniform  size.  Mince  cold  chicken  freed  from  skin  and  fat, 
quite  fine,  rub  in  a  little  butter,  season  to  your  liking,  and  spread 
between  every  two  triangles,  pressing  the  pieces  of  bread  gently 
bat  firmly  on  the  mixture.    Pass  with  the  tomato  salad. 


CocoANUT  Caks. 

One  scant  cup  of  butter ;  two  full  cups  of  sugar ;  three  full  cups 
of  prepared  flour ;  one  scant  cup  of  milk ;  one  half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  sifted  three  times  with  the  flour ;  four  eggs ;  half  of  a  grated 
cocoanut ;  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  peel. 


.  ^ 


340  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Cream,  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  ^  in  the  lemon  juice  and  peel  natl! 
the  mixture  is  very  light.  Next,  go  in  the  beaten  egg-yolks*  then 
the  milk,  stifiFened  whites  and  flour  alternately ;  lastly,  the  cocoanut 
Bake  in  small  tins.     Eat  while  fresh,  but  not  warm. 


DINNER. 

Green  Pea  Soup.  Fried  Scallops. 

Roast  Fowl  a  ta  Guyot.         Young  Onions. 

Mashed  Potatoes,         Lettuce  Salad.         Queen  of  Puddings. 

Coffee. 


GmBSN  PsA  Soup. 

Two  quarto  of  Uquor  in  which  corned  beef  or  mutton  has  been 
boiled ;  two  quarts  of  green  peas ;  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  including 
a  shallot  or  young  onion ;  one  even  tablespoonfiil  of  prepared  flour, 
tubbed  up  with  one  of  butter ;  pepper  to  taste ;  dice  of  fried  bread. 

Boil,  skim  and  strain  the  liquor,  and  return  it  to  the  fire  with 
the  pea-pods.  Cook  them  twenty  minutes,  strain  them  out  and  put 
in  peas  and  onion.  Cook  until  the  peas  are  soft  and  broken ;  rub 
all  through  a  colander  back  into  the  pot,  stir  in  the  floured  butter ; 
season,  boil  two  minutes,  and  pour  upon  the  bread  in  the  tureen. 
The  advantage  of  using  flour  in  this  receipt  is  to  prevent  sepaxa^- 
tion  of  the  pea*pulp  and  the  liquor. 


FtoBD  Scallops. 

Wipe  each,  toll  in  beaten  egg,  then,  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  is 
hot  lard  or  dripping  to  a  fine  brown.  Shake  off  the  fat  in  a  split 
spoon,  and  lay  in  rows  on  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Pass 
hot  crackers,  mashed  potato  and  cut  lemon  with  them. 


■     SUMMER  BILI<S  OF  FARE.  34« 

Roast  Fowi.  a  la  Gnyot. 

One  tender,  full-grown  chicken  ;  a  sweetbread,  boiled,  blanchad 
and  minced ;  a  dozen  mushrooms  chopped ;  a  tablespoonful  of 
minced,  fat  salt  pork ;  half  a  cupful  of  fine  crumbs ;  slices  of  fkt 
salt  pork. 

Draw  and  truss  the  fowl  as  usual,  and  stuff  with  a  forcemeat, 
made  of  the  minced  sweetbread,  mushrooms,  pork,  bread  crumbs 
and  seasoning.  Bind  thin  slices  of  pork  over  the  breast,  lay  in  a 
dripping  pau,  with  a  little  boiling  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  wet  up  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  sharply,  and  senre 
in  a  boat. 


Queen  of  Puddings. 

One  and  a-half  cups  of  sugar ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  two  cups  of 
very  dry,  fine  crumbs ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one  quart  of 
red  raspberries. 

Rub  butter,  and  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  beat  in  the  yolks. 
The  crumbs  should,  all  this  time,  be  soaking  in  the  milk.  Beat 
them  into  eggs  and  buttered  sugar,  and,  when  light,  pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  buttered  bake-dish.  Bake,  until  the  middle  is  well-set ; 
draw  to  the  oven  door ;  cover  with  berries,  strew  sugar  thickly  among 
and  over  them,  and  spread  deftly  over  all  a  meringue  of  the  frothed 
whites  of  the  eggs,  stiffened  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar.  Shut  the  door,  and  brown  the  meringue  lightly.  Set  away 
where  it  will  cool  quickly,  then  leave  on  ice  until  wanted.  Eat  with 
cream.  This  is  not  a  new  receipt,  but  among  the  many  variations 
of  the  far-famed  "  Queen,"  I  regard  the  above  as  the  simplest  and 
best.  It  is  better  made  with  strawberries  than  with  any  other  fmiti 
but  is  always  delicious  and  popular. 


342  SUMMER   BILLS  OF  PARR 

No.  19l 

BRBAKPAar* 

Green  Com  Porridge,  Deviled  Kidneys. 

Mamma's  Muffins.         Stewed  Potatoes. 

Melons.  Tea.  Coffise. 


Grssn  Corn  Porridgb. 

Shave  the  grains  from  a  dozen  ears  of  green  com,  using  a  sharp 
knife  for  the  purpose,  and  leaving  no  grain  whole.  Put  into  a 
farina  kettle ;  barely  cover  with  milk,  fit  on  a  lid  and  steam,  rather 
than  stew,  for  half  an  hour  after  the  boil  is  reached.  Stir  in  then  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  corn-starch,  boil  five  minutes,  beat 
in  two  eggs  already  frothed,  cook  for  two  minutes  more  and  turn  out 
Eat  with  butter  or  with  cream,  or,  still  again,  with  sugar  and 
cream.    It  is  very  good. 

DsviLSD  Kidneys. 

Split  the  kidneys  (veal  or  lamb),  in  half,  taking  out  the  hard 
"  cores,'*  and  dip  in  a  mixture  of  butter  (a  teaspoonful  for  each 
kidney),  made-mustard,  lemon-juice  and  a  suspicion  of  cayenne. 
Lay  them  within  an  oyster-broiler  and  cook  gently  fifteen  minutes, 
turning  them,  over  a  clear  fire.  Rub  a  chafing  dish  (hot)  with 
half  an  onion,  lay  in  a  teaspoonful  of.  butter,  and  when  this  hu 
melted,  dish  the  kidneys. 

Mamma's  Muffins. 

Three  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  one  cup  (even)  of  white  commeal ; 
a  quart  of  lukewarm  milk ;  four  eggs  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  one  of  sugar,  stirred  with  the  warn 
milk. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  343 

Beat  tlie  eggs  light,  add  the  milk,  lard  and  sugar ;  sift  salt, 
ffleal  and  flour  together  twice,  and  put  in  last.  Beat  hard,  and  bake 
in  muffin  tins« 


Melons. 

All  varieties  of  the  cantelope  family,  musk,  and  nutmeg  melons^ 
are  welcome  to  the  summer  breakfast  table.  Cut  each  in  half,  length- 
wise, scoop  out  the  seeds,  put  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  hollows  thus 
made,  and  send  to  table.  They  are  eaten  by  Southerners  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  at  the  North  with  sugar.  Give  your  guests  their  choice 
of  condiments. 


LUNCHEON. 

Codfish  Scalloped,  with  Mushrooms. 

^w  Tomato  Salad.  Terhune  Com  Bread. 

Dried  Rusk  and  Milk.  Berries. 


Codfish  Scalloped,  with  Mushrooms. 

Two  cupfuls  of  cold,  boiled  codfish  (fresh),  "picked"  rather 
coarsely ;  one  cupful  of  good  drawn  butter ;  half  &  can  of  mushrooms ; 
half  a  cup  of  fine  crumbs  ;  pepper  and  salt. 

Mince  the  mushrooms,  and  strew  between  the  layers  of  the  fish  in 
a  buttered  dish,  moistening,  as  you  go  on,  with  the  drawn  butter, 
and  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the  topmost  layer  with 
the  drawn  butter,  then  with  the  crumbs,  stick  bits  of  butter  in  these, 
and  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour,  then  brown.  You  can  make  this 
dish  of  salt  cod,  soaked  before  it  is  cooked.  In  this  caae,  beat  up  a 
couple  of  ecfgs  in  the  drawn  buttei:. 


344  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE, 

Raw  Tomato  Sai^ad. 

Ped  very  cold  tomatoes,  cut  in  two,  crosswise,  and  serve  witli 
mayonnaise  or  plain  dressing. 


TsRHUNE  Corn  Bread. 

Two  cups  of  white  com  meal ;  one  cup  of  flour ;  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  white  sugar;  three  cups  of  sour  or  buttermilk.  (Half 
"  loppered  "  cream  makes  it  particularly  good.) 

One  rounded  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one  of  salt  sifted  thiee 
times  with  flour  and  meal ;  one  large  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

Sift  flour,  meal,  salt  and  soda  into  a  bowl ;  beat  lard  and  sugar 
together  and  stir  into  the  milk ;  pour  the  latter  into  a  hole  in  the 
middle  of  the  flour,  and  stir  all  gradually  to  a  good  batter ;  beat 
hard  with  upward  strokes,  raking  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  with  each 
sweep,  for  two  minutes ;  turn  into  a  greased  pudding  mold  set  in  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  steadily  four  hours,  keeping  the 
water  about  it  at  a  slow  boil  all  the  time.  Turn  out  and  eat  hot. 
It  will  be  found  very  nice. 

Dried  Rusk  and  Milk  (Excellent). 

Two  cups  of  milk ;  two  eggs ;  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  half  of  a 
yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  warm  water ;  one  quart  of  flour  ;  one  even 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  milk,  butter,  yeast  and  a  pint  of  flour 
into  a  sponge,  and  let  it  rise  five  or  six  hours,  or  until  light ;  beat 
in  the  eggs,  salt  and  the  rest  of  the  flour ;  roll  out  the  dough  into  a 
paste  more  than  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  round  biscuits,  se(i 
rows  of  them  in  a  baking  pan,  rub  the  tops  lightly  with  butter,  and 
put  another  row  on  these ;  let  them  rise  for  half  an  hour  before 
baking.    Remove  from  the  oven,  and  let  them  get  nearly  cold  before 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  345 

dividing  the  upper  from  the  lower  stratum ;  pile  lightly  in  pans, 
and  leave  in  a  cooking  oven  all  night  to  dry. .  They  should  not  be 
browned  at  all  in  drjning.  Hang  them  in  a  clean  bag  in  the  kitchen 
closet,  or  other  dry,  warm  place.  In  two  days  they  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Set  a  bowl  at  each  place ;  lay  a  rusk,  cracked  in  two  or 
three  places,  in  it,  a  bit  of  ice  on  this,  and  pour  enough  rich  milk  to 
cover  the  rusk  well.  In  three  minutes,  if  well  dried,  the  desiccated 
biscuits  will  be  soft  and  delicious.  Pass  sugar  and  berries  as  an 
accompaniment. 

DINNER. 

Lakewood  Chowder.  Chicken,  fried  whole. 

Potato  Fritters.         Summer  Squash.  Cucumber  Salad. 

Peaches  and  Whipped  Cream.         Sponge  Cake. 

Black    Coffee. 


Lakbwood    Chowdbr. 

Four  pounds  of  cod  or  halibut ;  half  a  pound  of  sliced  fat  salt 
pork ;  two  minced  onions ;  eighteen  Boston  crackers,  split,  toasted, 
and  well  buttered ;  a  glass  of  Sauterne  or  other  clear,  sour  wine ; 
pepper  and  salt ;  cold  water ;  pint  of  milk. 

Fry  pork  and  one  sliced  onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  chowder 
pot ;  take  out  the  pork  and  bits  of  onion  with  a  perforated  spoon 
and  lay  the  fish  in  the  fat ;  sprinkle  with  raw  onion  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  as  you  go  on ;  cover  with  cold  water  when  all 
the  fish  is  in  ;  put  over  the  fire,  bring  to  a  boil  and  then  cook  gently 
forty  minutes.  Soak  the  split,  toasted  and  buttered  crackers  ten 
minutes  in  boiling  hot  milk  ;  take  them  up  carefully,  as  you  must 
put  a  layer  in  the  bcttcin  of  the  tureen  when  the  chowder  is  done. 


•       V 


346  SUMMER  BILLS  OP  FARE. 

BrfoiTg  taking  the  pot  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  wine.  Put  several 
strained  spoonfuls  of. the  chowder  on  the  soaked  crackers  in  the 
tureen,  then  more  crackers,  and  more  fish,  until  all  are  used  up. 
Thicken  the  liquor  left  in  the  pot  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Boil  up  and  pour  on  top  of  fish  and  crackers.  Pass 
sliced  lemon  with  the  chowder. 


Chickens  Fried  Whols. 

A  well-grown  broiler.  It  must  be  young  and  tender.  Sweet, 
salted  lard,  or  clarified  dripping ;  flour,  salt  and  pepper ;  two  or 
three  slices  of  young  onions  dropped  in  the  hot  fat. 

Draw,  and  wash  out  the  chicken  with  soda  and  water,  rinse  well 
and  wipe  dry.  Steam  for  half  an  hour.  If  you  have  no  steamer, 
wrap  the  fowl  in  mosquito  netting  and  lay  in  a  colander ;  set  over 
ia  pot  of  boiling  water,  fit  a  close  cover  on  the  colander  and  keep  the 
water  at  a  hard  boil,  but  not  touching  the  chicken,  forty  minutes. 
Wipe  the  fowl,  roll  in  salted  and  peppered  flour  until  well  coated,  and 
lay  in  deep  salted  fat,  enough  to  cover  it  and  boiling  hot.  When 
well  browned,  transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve.    •  A  pretty  and  delightful  dish. 


Potato  Fritters. 

One  cupful  of  mashed  potato,  beaten  light  and  smooth  with  a 
fork ;  three  beaten  eggs ;  half-cup  of  milk ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
prepared  flour ;  salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  drop  by  the  large   spoonful  in  the^ 
hot  fat  left  from   cooking  the  chicken,  when  you  have  strained 
and  reheated  it.  Drain  in  a  split  spoon,  as  you  take  up  each  fritter. 


SUMMER  XUl^LS  OF  FARE-  ^47 

SUMMRR  vSqUASH. 

Pare,  take  out  the  seeds,  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  kn  hour ;  then 
pt4  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  salted,  cook  until  tender ;  drain  and 
mesh  smooth  with  a  little  butter,  salt  aud  pepper ;  whip  to  a  creamy 
pulp,  and  dish  hot 

Peaches  and  Whipped  Crisam. 

Peel  fine,  ripe,  freestone  peaches  just ,  before  dinner,  that  they 
may  not  change  color  with  standing.  Cover  tJie  dish  containing  them, 
and  set  on  the  ice  until  the  dessert  is  served.  As  j'^cu  help  them 
out,  pile  peaches  on  saucer,  stew  thickly  with  fruit  sugar,  and  cover 
with  whipped  cream — ^plenty  of  it.  Pass  sponge  cake  with  the 
peaches.    The  cream  should  be  ice  cold. 


No.  20« 
BREAKFAST. 

Wheat  Germ  Porridge.  Lobster  Croquettes. 

Bread  and  Milk  Muffins.  Fried  Cucumbers 

Fruit.  Meringued  CoflFee.  Tea. 


Wheat  Germ  Porridge. 

A  receipt  for  this  cereal  will  be  found  in  No.  2,  Spring. 


Lobster  Croquettes. 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  large  lobster  quite  fine,  stir  into  a  cupful  ct 
drawn  butter,  beat  up  an  egg  and  add  it,  with  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemou,  salt  to  taste,  half  a  cup  of  cracker  dust,  and  a  little  cayenne* 


34«  SUMMER   BILLS  OF  FARE. 

(The  drawn  butter  should  be  rather  stiflF.)  Set  the  paste  thus  made 
on  ice  until  stiff  and  cold.  Take  out  a  great  spoonful  at  a  time, 
make  into  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg,  again  in 
poxmded  cracker.  Fry  carefully  in  hot  lard,  drain  each  as  you  take 
it  up,   and  serve   on  a  hot  dish. 


Bread  and  Milk  Mufmns. 

Two  cups  of  fine,  dry  crumbs ;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
prepared  flour ;  two  cups  of  boiling  milk  ;  two  beaten  eggs  ;  one 
cup  of  boiling  water ;  half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter. 

Pour  the  boiling,  salted  water  on  the  crumbs,  let  them  stand, 
covered,  for  half  an  hour ;  drain  off  the  liquid  without  pressing  the 
crumbs,  and  beat  in  the  flour ;  add  the  butter  to  the  hot  milk,  and 
put  in  next;  beat  until  smooth  and  nearly  lukewarm  before  the 
eggs  go  in ;  bake  in  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle.  Send  to  the 
table  hot  and  tear, — ^not  cut, — open. 


Fried  Cucumbers. 

Cut  off  the  skin,  slice  lengthwise  into  thick  pieces,  and  lay  in 
cold  water  half  an  hour ;  wipe  dry,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then,  in  fine 
cracker-crumbs,  seasoned  pretty  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard ;  drain  dry  and  eat  hot.  They  are  far  more  palata- 
ble than  might  be  supposed.  Some  like  to  squeeze  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  on  each  slice  before  eating  it. 


Meringued  Coffee. 

Make  hot  and  strong ;  put  into  each  cup  one  or  two  lumps  of 
sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  scalding  milk  ;  fill  up  with  coffee 


SUMMER  BILLS  OP  FARE.  349 

and  lay  on  the  surface  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  a  meringue  made 
by  mixing  the  white  of  an  egg,  frothed  stiff,  with  a  half  pint  of 
whipped  cream. 

LUNCHEON. 

Ragout  of  Sweetbreads.  Potato  Scallc^ 

Lettuce    Salad  with    Plain    Dressing. 

■ 

Cousin  Melissa's  Sponge  Cake. 

Lemonade. 


Ragout  of  Sweetbreads. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  for  ten  minutes ;  leave  them  in  ice-cold 
water  for  half  an  hour;  wipe  dry,  cut  into  dice,  add  half  as  much 
mushroom  dice,  and  stew  in  enough  broth  to  cover  them,  for  ten 
minutes.  Season  well  with  pepper-and-salt ;  put  in  half  a  cupful 
of  stewed  tomatoes,  strained,  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  cut 
up  in  as  much  butter ;  boil  up  sharply,  and  serve. 


Potato  Scallops. 

Mash  potatoes  soft  with  butter  and  milk ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  whip  to  a  cream,  and  fill  scallop-shells  with  the  mixture, 
mounding  it  high  and  smoothly.  Bake  quickly,  and  as  they  brown, 
wash  over  lightly  with  beaten  egg.     Eat  hot  from  the  shells. 


Cousin  Melissa's  Sponge  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs;  four  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  four  cups  of 
Hecker's  prepared  flour ;  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  lemons. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  light,  add  the  sugar 
to  the  yolks,  then,  lemon-juice  and  rind,  the  whites,  at  last  the 


350 


SUMMER  BILLS  OP  PARS. 


flour,  stirred  in  quickly.  Too  mucli  stirring  toughens  this  cake. 
Bake  in  square  or  brick-shaped  pans,  lined  with  buttered  papen 
Be  very  careful  as  to  the  baking.  Lay  white  paper  over  the  pan/5 
when  the  cake  goes  into  the  oven,  for  the  door  should  not  be  opened 
in  less  than  twenty  minutes.  Turn  the  tins  then,  gently,  or  the 
batter  may  fall.  This  is  for  a  large  quantity  of  sponge  cake,  but 
it  will  be  so  good  that  it  will  disappear  rapidly. 


LSMONADB, 

Peel  six  lemons ;  tx)ll  and  slice  them,  and  pack  them  in  a  pitcher, 
vJtemately  with  sugar,  allowing  for  each  lemon  two  heaping  table* 
spoonfuls.  Cover,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
before  ad^ng  three  pints  of  water  and  a  lump  of  ice.  Stir  well  and 
long ;  fill  tumblers  one-third  the  way  to  the  top  with  cracked  ice, 
rad  ponr  in  the  li 


;j||[iiiK 


Salmon  Bisqne. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes. 


DINNBa 

Brown  Pricassee  of  Chicken. 
Green  Peas.  Mashed  Potatoes. 


^g  Salad  with  Sardine  Mayonnaise. 
Hnddebeny  Pudding.  Ccxfte* 


SaUI  ON  BiSQUB. 

Two  full  cups  of  minced  salmon ;  two  cups  of  fine  crumbs ; 
half  a  cup  of  butter ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  pepper  and  salt ; 
a  tablespoonfiil  of  minced  parsley;  two  raw  eggs  beaten  light 
(You  can  use  canned  salmon,  if  you  like.) 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.     '  351 

Rnb  the  wanned  butter  iuto  the  minced  salmon,  season,  and  put 
over  the  fire  with  the  boiling  waten  Cook  gently  half  an  hour,  stii 
in  the  crumbs  and  parsley,  simmer  five  minutes,  add  the  beaten 
eggs,  stir  well  and  pour  out.   Send  around  crackers  and  lemon  with  it. 


Brown  Fricassee  of  Chicken. 

Joint  a  fowl,  and  lay  in  a  dripping  pan  on  a  thin  stratum  of 
chopped  salt  pork,  and  a  little  minced  onion.  Pour  in  cold  water 
two  inches  deep,  cover  with  another  pan,  and  cook  slowly  until  ten- 
der ;  uncover,  increase  the  heat,  turning  the  chicken  often  as  one 
side  browns.  When  all  the  pieces  are  colored,  take  them  up  and  ar- 
range on  a  hot  dish.  Add  to  the  gravy  more  boiling  water,  a  spoon- 
ful of  butter  rolled  in  two  of  browned  flour,  some  minced  parsley, 
pepper,  and  if  needed,  salt ;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 


Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Cut  a  piece  from  the  smooth  top  of  each  fine,  ripe  tomato,  and 
take  out  the  inside.  Chop  the  pulp,  mix  with  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs 
and  butter,  season  with  salt,  sugar  and  pepper.  Fill  the  hollowed 
tomatoes  with  this  mixture,  fit  on  the  tops  and  bake  from  forty  to 
forty-five  minutes,  packed  neatly  in  a  bake-dish.  Fill  the  gaps  be- 
tween the  tomatoes  with  forcemeat  if  any  is  left  over  before  bakingr 


Egg-Salad  with  Sardine  Mayonnaise. 

Boil  eight  eggs  hard,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water,  to  lie  there 
while  you  make  the  mayonnaise.  Do  this  in  the  manner  already 
prescribed  in  this  series,  and,  when  thick  and  smooth,  rub  four  sar- 
dines to  a  pulp,  and  whip  them  in  gradually.     Cut  the  eggs  into 


35«  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

quarters,  lay  ^n  crisp  lettnce  leaves,  and,  as  you  serve  these  out,  pour 
the  dressing  f  ver  them.  At  this  season,  when  salad  is  more  than  a 
luxury — alm«  )St  a  necessity,  if  one  would  keep  well — study  such 
agreeable  noT"tlties  as  the  above.    It  will  be  found  delicious. 


HUCI^BBBRRY  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  ^f  milk ;  two  eggs ;  four  cups  of  flour ;  half  a  cup  of 
yeast,  or  half  ii  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  warm  water ;  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  buttttr ;  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  half  as  much  salt 
sifted  three  ti^es  with  the  flour ;  a  quart  of  berries. 

Whip  the  eggs,  butter  (warmed)  and  milk  together,  and  pour 
gradually  into  a  hole  in  the  sifted  flour.  Mix  well,  put  in  the  yeast, 
and  set  to  rise  in  a  bowl  for  four  or  five  hours,  or  until  light.  Then 
stir  in  She  berries,  dredged  thickly  with  flour,  pour  into  a  greased 
mold^  ajad  boil  steadily  for  two  hours.    Turn  out,  and  eat  warm 


No.  81 

BREAKFAST. 

Arrowroot  Porridge.  Broiled  Chickens  (deviled). 

Egg  Biscuits.  Potatoes  a  la  Parisienne. 

Fruit  Tea.  Coffee. 


Arrowroot  Porridge. 

One  quart  of  milk,  the  richer,  the  better ;  a  large  cupful  of  cold 
water ;  six  full  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot ;  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Scald  the  milk,  wet  the  arrowroot  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the 
water,  gradually ;  take  the  hot  milk  from  the  fire  and  pour  it,  a  few 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  353 

spoonfuls  at  a  time,  slowly,  on  the  arrowroot  paste ;  salt,  and, 
returning  it  to  the  fire  (of  course  in  a  farina  kettle),  stir  it  five 
minutes  after  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  boils.  You  can  eat  it 
hot  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  pour  into  cups  to  form,  and  when  cold, 
set  on  the  ice  until  next  morning.  Turn  out,  and  eat  with  cream 
and  sugar.  ' 

Broiled  Chickens  (deviled). 

Clean,  split  down  the  back,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  in  the 
usual  way  until  they  are  done  and  begin  to  brown.  Lay  in  a 
dripping-pan,  and  rub  all  over  with  a  sauce  made  by  whipping  light 
a  tablespoouful  of  made-mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne.  Sift  fine  crumbs  over  all,  and  set  on  the  upper 
grating  of  a  hot  oven  to  brown.  Transfer  to  a  hot  chafing  dish ; 
lay  a  little  of  the  sauce  on  each  leg  and  breast,  and  serve. 


Egg  Biscuits. 

One  quart  of  prepared  flour ;  a  tablespoouful  of  lard,  and  twice 
as  much  butter ;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  beaten  light. 

Salt  the  flour,  and  sift  it  twice  in  a  bowl,  rub  in  the  shortening 
thoroughly  and  lightly  ;  mix  yolks  and  milk  together,  pour  into  a 
hole  in  the  flour,  work  into  a  paste  with  as  little  handling  as  possv 
ble ;  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  round  cakes,  and 
bake  in  a  floured  pan.     Eat  hot. 


Potatoes  a  la  Paristenne. 

Cut  into  small,  round  marbles  with  a  potato-gouge,  and  throw 
into  ice  cold  water ;  leave  them  there  for  half  an  hour ;  dry  thmn 


354  SUMMER   BILLS  OP  FARE, 

well  between  two  clean  towels,  and  drop  into  a  kettle  of  t>oiling 
lard,  slightly  salted  and  peppered.  Cook — ^not  too  fast — to  a  yellow- 
brown  ;  drain,  and  serve  in  a  dish  lined  with  a  hot  napkin. 


LUNCHEON. 

Ham  Rarebit.  Com  Fritters. 

Bread,  Butter  and  Olives.  Radishes. 

Pink-and-White  Cake.  Lemonade. 


Ham  Rarebit. 

One  cupful  of  minced  corned  ham ;  one  cupful  of  dry,  g^ted 
cheese ;  two  eggs  ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  ;  cayenne 
to  taste ;  slices  of  toasted  bread,  buttered. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  mix  meat  and  cheese,  stir  the  eggs  into  the 
milk,  and  put  all  together  in  a  bowl ;  work  to  a  batter,  spread 
thickly  on  crustless  slices  of  kuttered  toast,  brown  quickly  on  the 
upper  grating  of  the  oven,  and  send  at  once  to  ta:ble. 


Corn  Fritters. 

Cut  the  com  from  the  cob,  and  mince  with  a  keen  chopper 
bruising  as  little  as  may  be ;  allow  two  eggs  to  a  heaping  cupful  of 
the  minced  grains,  a  half-cupful  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  pre- 
pared  flour,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teacupful  of  melted  butter. 
Beiit  the  eggs  light,  add  the  milk,  butter,  salt,  finally  the  flour. 
Bake  on  a  griddle  and  send  in  very  hot. 


PiNK-AND- White-Cake. 

Three  cups  of  prepared  flour;  two  cups  of  sugar;  whites  of  five 
eggs ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  one   cup  of  milk ,  one  teaspeonful  of 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARK.  355 

powdered  coclimeal ;  one  teaspoonfui  of  rose-water,  and  tli«  dame  of 
essence  of  bitter  almond ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar. 

Add  the  milk,  and  stir  in  alternately  the  frothed  whites  and  the 
flour,  beating  up  lightly.  Halve  the  batter,  and  mix  with  one  portion 
the  powdered  cochineal  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water^  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  rose  water,  then,  strain  through  double  muslin ;  to 
the  other  add  the  bitter  almond  flavoring.  Put  alternate  spoonfuls  ol 
pink  and  white  batter  into  a  buttered  cake-mold  and  bake  in  a 
steady  oven.  If  judiciously  mixed,  the  cake  will  be  prettily  mot- 
tled. 

DINNER. 

Baked  Soup*  ^         Oysters  au  Grattn. 

Stewed  Pigeons.  String  Beans  au  Maitre  d^ HoUi. 

Scallop  of  Com  and  Tomatoes. 
Apple  Meringue.  Peaches.  Pears. 

Co£fee. 


Barbd  Soup. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  chopped  small;  half  a  pound  of 
corned  ham,  also  minced;  one  onion;  one  carrot;  a  quarter  cab- 
bage ;  a  pint  of  string  beans  ;  a  pint  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob ;  six 
large  tomatoes,  sliced ;  one  turnip ;  four  potatoes  (parboiled) ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  one  tart  apple,  pared  and  quar* 
tered ;  four  quarts  of  cold  water ;  a  heaping  teaspoonfui  of  salt»  and 
half  as  much  pepper ;  one  teaspoonfui  of  sugar. 

Peel  and  cut  the  vegetables  small ;  pack  them,  alternately  with 
the  meat,  in  a  stone  jar ;  season,  cover  with  the  water ;  fit  a  top  on 
the  jar  and  cover  the  cracks  around  the  edgM  with  a  paste  of  flout 


I  • 


}S6  8UMMBR  BIIXS  OP  FARB. 

and  water ;  set  in  a  deep  pan  of  cold  water,  put  into  the  oven  ami 
cook  steadily  for  six  hours  ;  as  the  water  in  the  pan  boils  down, 
replenish  from  the  boiling  tea-kettle.  A  good  family  soup.  Serve 
without  straining. 

Oysters  au  Gratin. 

One  quart  of  oysters. 

One  cupful  of  thick,  drawn  butter,  in  which,  after  it  is  taken 
from  the  fire,  have  been  mixed  two  beaten  eggs  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  Durkee's  salad-dressing,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Drain  the 
oysters,  lay  them  on  a  soft  cloth,  and,  spreading  another  over  them, 
pat  it  to  absorb  all  the  moisture ;  on  a  layer  of  these,  arranged  in  a 
bake-dish,  salted  and  peppered,  put  one  of  drawn  butter,  more 
oysters,  more  drawn  butter,  etc.,  until  the  materials  are  used  up ; 
cover  with  fine  crumbs,  drop  bits  •f  butter  on  top,  and  bake,  covered, 
half  an  hour,  then  brown. 

Stewbd  Pigeons. 

Draw  and  wash  the  pigeons,  and  lay  them  whole  in  abroad  pot; 
scatter  a  little  minced  onion,  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley  on 
them,  and  cover  barely  with  weak  broth  or  soup-stock;  cover 
closely,  and  simmer,  never  boiling  hard,  until  tender ;  take  out  the 
birds  and  keep  hot,  while  you  strain  the  gravy ;  skim  off  the  fat, 
return  to  the  fire  and  boil  up  sharply ;  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
put  in  a  dozen  chopped  mushrooms,  cook  five  minutes,  add  a  glass 
of  sherry,  and  pour  over  the  pigeons. 


String  Bnk^s  au  Maztre  d^ Hotel. 

Stxing  witli    care ;  cut  into  inch  lengths  and  eook  tttadir  in 
9lenty  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted ;  drain  dry ;  have  ready  in 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  PARE.  353 

a  fiying-paii  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoon- 
fill  of  vinegar,  bot,  but  not  boiling ;  stir  in  the  beans,  tossing 
ligbtly  with  a  silver  fork;  and  serve  boL 


Scallop  ov  Corn  and  Tomatoes. 
'     Sbave  the  com  from  the  cob,  and  pack  in  alternate  layers  with 
tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  in  a  bake-dish ;  sprinkle  each  stratmn 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar  and  a  few  bits,  of  minced 
onion,  and,  if  you  like,  some  shreds  of  fat  salt  pork ;  cover  with 
fine  cnunbs,  peppered  and  salted,  with  bits  of  butter  here  and 
bake,  covered,  until    the    surface  is  bubbling  hot,  then 
Ughdy. 

Afplx  Msringub. 

Two  cups  of  strained  apple  sauce ;  four  ^;gs ;  four  table  _ 
fhls  of  sugar  for  the  sance,  one  for  the  meringue ;  one  tablespoonfdl 
of  butter  stirred  into  the  sauce  while  hot ;   some  good  pie  crust ;  ' 
grated  lemon-peel  for  seasoning. 

Beat  four  yolks  and  two  whites  light  with  the  sugar,  and  whip 
with  the  sauce ;  have  ready  a  pie  plate  lined  with  nice  crust,  baked ; 
fill  with  the  mixture ;  spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  remain- 
ing whites  and  sugar;  brown  lightly  and  i^uickly  in  a  hot  oven; 
eatoold. 

No.  S9. 
BREAKFAST. 

Farina  GmeL  Stewed  Sheeps'  Tongues. 

Oatmeal  Bannocks.  Qiopped  Potatoes. 

Fruit  Cofifce,  Taa, 


FARX. 


I  of  batter ;  one  quart  (^ 
milk ;  balf-teaspoooful  of  salt ;  bit  of  soda  in  the  milk. 

Scald  three  cupfuls  of  milk ;  wet  the  farina  with  the  remaining 
cup  of  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  hot.  Cook,  stirring  often,  half 
an  hour ;  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
Beat  up  well  and  pour  oat.  Eat  with,  or  without  sugar,  as  yon 
Hke. 

Stswbd  Shbbfs'  Tongues. 
Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water ;  drain,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water  until  you  can  peel  'off  the  skin.  Do  this  over  night,  and 
leave  on  ice  until  morning.  Then  split  lengthwise  into  four  pieces 
when  yon  have  trimmed  them  neatly.  Put  for  each  tongue  a  table* 
spoonful  of  chopped  pork  into  a  saucepan,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced 
parsley,  half  a  dozen  chopped  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
■■  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  for  the  whole  number.  Lay  the  split 
tongues  on  this  prepared  bed,  pour  in  a  cnpfiil  of  skinjmed  gravy 
or  weak  broth — cold  water,  if  you  have  neither — and  stew  gently 
until  tender.  Thicken  with  browned  flour ;  boil  up  and  pour  out 
Your  butcher  will  save  the  tongues  for  you  at  a  small  cost,  if  you 
give  him  timely  notice.  A  half-cup  of  stewed  and  strained  toma' 
toes  is  an  improvement  to  the  stew. 

Oatubai.  Bannocks. 

Three  cups  of  oatmeal ;  one  cup  of  white  flour,  prepared;  one 
pint  of  boiling  milk ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt. 

Sift  oatmeal,  flour  and  salt  twice  together  into  a  bowl,  melt  the 
butter'  in  the  milk,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  meal,  etc,  and 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  359 

pour  tUs  in.  Stir  into  a  soft  dough  as  quickly  as  possible^  roll  into 
a  sheet  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes^  and  bake 
on  a  hot  griddle.  Butter  while  hot,  and  serve.  They  are  gooji 
cold,  also. 

Chopped  Potatoes. 

Mince  some  fat  roast  beef  coarsely  and  put  into  a  £rying*paa 
with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  minced  parsley.  As  it  heats  throw  in 
chopped  potatoes,  pepper  and  salt,  and  toss  until  they  begin  to 
brown.    Turn  out  upon  a  hot  dish. 


Bread. 


LUNCHEON. 

. 

Rissoles. 

Cucumber  Salad. 

Ruak. 

Butter. 

Olives. 

Wftim  Gingerbread. 

Iced  Milk. 

» 

RiSSOLBS. 

Mince  cold  veal  or  chicken,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  roll  out 
a  good  pie  crust,  as  for  tarts,  cut  into  squares  or  oblongs,  as  for 
turn-overs,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  seasoned  meat  in  the  center  of 

each,  brush  the  edges  with  white  of  egg^  and  make  into  a  neat  roll 
enveloping  the  meat.  Pinch  the  edges  of  the  paste  firmly  together ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  brown,  wash  over  with  beaten  egg ; 
leave  in  the  oven  for  a  minute  to  glaze,  and  serve  hot.  These  are 
nice  made  of  cold  calfs  liver. 


Cucumber  Sauu>. 

Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers  and  leave  in  ice-water  tpr  an  hour, 
drain,  slice  an  onion,  and  lay  in  a  cold  dish  alternately  with  tbm 
cucumbers,  and  season  with  ^vinegar,  pepper  and  salt 


m  jeast  case,  aissoivea  in  muiu  water  j  one  teospooniui  oi  sajx.  -  tww 

°^^  4oar  and  salt  together,  pour  in  milk  and  yeast,  and  let  ife 
or  five  hours  before  adding  the  beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  but* 
Drk  these  in  well,  and  make  it  into  small  rolls ;  set  closely 
in  a  pan.  Throw  a  cloth  over  tbein  and  let  them  stand 
;ht  Bake  in  a  steady  oven.  Just  before  taking  them  up, 
i  top  with  white  of  egg  in  which  a  little  sugar  has  been 


Warm  Gingkrbksad. 

cap  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  molasses ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  one 
loppered "  milk  or  cream ;  four  and  a-half  cups  of  flour ; . 
poonfnl  of  soda,  sifted  twice  with  the  flour ;  one  tablespoonfttl 
r ;  one  teaspoonfnl  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon ;  three  eggs. 
together  molasses,  sugar,  butter  and  spices  until  they  are 
it :  imt  in  the  milk,  beaten  eggs,  and  finally,  flonr.  Stir  vigoc 
rflvemmtneB,  and  bake  in  a"card."  Break,  instcsd  of  «ttb 
ud  «ttt  with  iced  milk  ac  an  accompaniment 


DINNER. 

f  Rioe  SoiqBi,  Baked  Pickerd  and  Mashed  Potatoes 

Stenred  Chops.        Gieen  Peas.        String  Beans. 
Xitttuos  StUd,  Peach  Ice-cream.  Lemon  Coke;. 


SUMMBR  BILLS  OP  FA&B.  561 

t 

CuwiY  Rich  Soup* 

One  cup  of  rice ;  one  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder ;  two  quarts 
cif  soup-stock,  mutton,  chicken  or  veal ;  half  an  onion^  minced  fine ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley ;  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  the  rice  tender  in  the  stock  when  the  latter  has  cooked 
fifteen  minutes  with  the  minced  onion  in  it;  add  the  parsley i  salt 
and  curry ;  simmer  twenty  minutes,  and  turn  out  It  should  be 
quite  thick  with  the  rice. 

« 

Bakxd  Pickbrbu 

•  * 

Clean  a  fine  pickerel  without  removing  the  head,  lay  it  in  a 
dripping  pan,  and  pour  about  it  a  large  cupful  of  boiling  water,  in 
which  has  been  melted  a  great  spoonful  of  butter;  cover  with 
another  pan,  and  cook  half  an  hour ;  baste  plentifully  with  the  but* 
ter-«nd-water,  and  cook  uncovered,  basting  often,  at  intervals  of 
fifteen  minutes  or  longer,  until  tender ;  transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
rub  well  all  over  with  a  sauce  made  by  beating  together  a  tabl^ 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  finely  minced  parsley,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  anchovy  paste.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon,  and  send 
around  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 


Stbwad  Chops. 

Broil  the  chops,  and  let  them  get  cold.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  and  two  of  butter;  oover 
tightly,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to  the  boiL 
At  the  end  of  an  hour,  add  a  cupful  of  hot  broth  (made  from  tbe 
trimmings  of  the  chops),  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  cloves, 
and  chopped  parsley.  Cover  again,  set  the  saucepan  directly  pn  the 
range,  and  stew  gently  until  thej;:hops  are  tender.    Lay  them  on  a 


1 


OF  FA5LE. 

with  browned  flour,  stir  in  a 

^ ,^ J _,, one  minute  and  pour  over  tlie 

chops.    A  few  mushrooms  improve  this  dish.    Tough,  ungainly 
mutton  chops  m&y  be  made  tender  and  palatable  by  this  prucess. 


String  Beaks. 
Cut  the  strings  from  both  sides  of  the  beans,  top  and  tail  thun, 
,','i'  and  cut  into  two-inch  lengths.  Few  cooks  perform  this  task  prop- 
erly. If  it  were  always  well  done,  beans  would  be  a  favorite  dish 
with  many  who  now  "  do  not  care  for  it. "  Put  over  the  fire  in  boil- 
ing, salted  water,  and  cook  forty  minutes  if  the  beans  are  young 
and  tender,  longer,  if  they  are  not.  Drain,  stir  a  good  piece  of 
butter  through  them,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Send  around  vine- 
gar with  them  for  such  as  like  it. 

Pkach  Icb-Ckbau. 
quart  of  ridi  cream ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  two  and  a  half 
sugar ;  one  quart  of  peeled  and  minced  peaches, 
ten  the  cream  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  mix  with  the  milk, 
%.  When  half  frozen,  stir  in  the  peaches,  over  which  you 
nved  the  remaining  half  cup  of  sugar.  Turn  the  freezer 
atil  the  mixture  is  firm ;  pack  in  finely  pounded  ice,  and 
until  you  are  ready  for  it.  Wrap  a  towel  dipped  in  boiling 
waticr  around  the  freezer  and  turn  out. 


Lemon  Cake. 
Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  half  cupM 
«f  milk ;  four  eggs ;  three  cups  of  prepared  flour. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  363 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  in  the  whipped  yolks,  the 
milk,  then,  .flour,  and  frothed  whites  by  turns.  Bake  in  jelly-cake 
tins.     When  cold,  spread  between  the  cakes  this  filling : 

Whites  of  three  tggs  and  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  beaten  to 
a  meringue,  then  flavored  with  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  and 
the  juice  of  two.  Should  the  juice  thin  the  meringue  too  much, 
add  more  sugar.  Cover  the  top  of  the  cake  "tfHith  the  same  nii;ii:iurej 
let  it  stand  three  or  four  hours  to  harden  the  frosting^,,  an.^^  ^^Vf 
with  the  ice  cream. 

Mo.  28. 
BREAKFAST. 

Wheaten  Grits. 
Ham  fried  in  Batter.  Broirned  Potatoes. 

Rice  Waffles. 
Fnth.  Tea.  Cofiee. 


Ham  Fribd  in  Battsr. 

I 

Cut  even  slices  of  cold  cooked  ham,  and  pepper  them  lightly. 
Make  a  batter  of 'a  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  and  a  scant  cup  of  pre 
pared  flour ;  salt  slightly,  dip  the  ham-slices  in  it,  and  fry  them  iq 
boiling  lard,  or  dripping.  Drain  off  the  grease,  and  serve  on  a  hoi 
platter. 

Brownbd  Potatoss. 

Boil  with  the  skins  on ;  peel  quickly,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  potatoes.  Lay  in  a  pie-plate,  pour  half  a  cupAil  of  strained 
gravy  over  them,  coat  each  well  with  them  and  brown  on  the  upper 
gratinjf  of  the  oven.    Serve  in  the  pie-dish. 


3F  FAKS. 


Id  boiled  rice ;  three  caps  of 
•onr  or  battenniUc ;  tbree  eggs ;  &  teaapoonfal  of  soda,  and  one  of 
■alt,  sifted  twice  with  the  flour ;  a  tablespoonful  of  hud. 

Melt  the  kxd,  and  beat  it  well  into  the  rice ;  add  the  miUc,  the 
*ggs  whipped  light,  finally  the  flour.  The  batter  should  not  be 
ftiff,  so  have  "  a  light  hand "  with  flour.  Bake  in  well'gretMd 
wafflfr-irons.    i 

I  LUNCHEON. 

Beef  Balls.  Oocn  Calces.  Potato  Salsd. 

Bread  and  Butter.  Crackers  and  Cheese. 

I«inoD  Cream  Toast  Wilbur's  Cocoa-theta. 

BSBP  Baxjj. 
Chop  cold  corned  beef  evenly,  and  quite  fine ;  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan a  cup' of  dra#n-batter,  having  for  its  foundation  some  of  the 
liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  flavored  by  stewing  a  little 
chopped  onion  in  it,  then,  straining  it  out,  before  adding  a  great 
spoonful  of  butter,  rolled  in  one  of  browned  flour ;  while  hot,  stir 
in  two  beaten  eggs,  then  the  minced  beef  Season  with  pepper  only, 
if  the  beef  is  well-salted ;  stir  all  over  the  fire  (there  should  be  about 
two  cnpfhls  of  the  chopped  meat),  until  very  hot ;  set  away  to  get 
cold  and  stiflf;  make  into,  ronnd  balls  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in 
diameter ;  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then,  in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in 
boiling  tat.    Drain  and  ^K 

Corn  Caxs. 
Shred  the  grains  of  green  com  quite  fine ;  beat  into  them  a  table- 
qpooaidl  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoou^l  of  sugar,  three  e^gs,  a  cup  of 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  365 

mUk  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour,  half  a  teaspoonfol  of 
salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Mix  well,  and  fry  on  a  griddle  as  you  would 
buckwheat  or  flannel-cakes.  Send  in  relays  to  table,  as  they  should 
be  eaten  hot 


Potato  Saiad. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  potato,  mealy  and  white,  rubbed  through  a 
colander,  and  left  to  get  cold.  Half  a  cupful  of  white  cabbage, 
shredded  fine  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  criss-cross  with  the  same— ^ 
chopping  would  bruise  it  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  shred  in 
the  same  way.  Yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  powder ; 
toss  all  together  with  a  silver  fork,  and  pour  this  dressing  over  it : 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  smooth ;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter ;  one  tea^poonful  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  corn-starch ;  half- 
spoonful  each,  of  salt  and  mustard,  and  a  very  little  cayenne;  a 
liberal  half  cupful  of  vinegar. 

Heat  the  vinegar  and  pour  upon  the  yolks,  sugar,  butter  and 
seasomng,  well  beaten  together ;  wet  the  corn-starch  with  water,  and 
stir  into  the  mixture ;  cook  all,  stirring  constantly,  two  minutes,  or 
until  it  thickens,  then,  whip  with  a  silver  fork  into  the  potato  sakd. 
Set  aside  imdl  very  cold. 

* 

Lemon  Ciikam  Toast. 

'  Rounds  of  stale  baker's  bread,  crustless,  and  cut  with  the  top  of 
a  baking-powder  box  or  a  tin  cake-cutter ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  half 
a  cup  of  sugar ;  three  eggs ;  grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon ;  throe 
tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour. 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  the  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and  flour,  aMdca 
with  lemon^peel,  dfp  each  JXMind  of  b»ad  in  this,  ooatitig  both  sides, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard ;  hieap  ou  g.  h.o^  platter,  spreadia;^  each  pJMe 


BILLS  OF  PARE. 

ng  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  cream 
on  and  a  tablespoonful  of  warmed  but- 


DINNBR. 

Fisli  Bisque  Maigre.  Fricasseed  Rabbits. 

Potato  Croquettes.  Baked  Cauliflower. 

Peacli  Pudding.  Peacli  Sauce. 

Fruit.  Coffee. 


Fish  Bisqub  Majgrb. 

Three.pounds  of  black  bass,  Halibut  or  any  other  fine  white  fish ; 
half  an  onion ;  three  stalks  of  celery ;  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  one  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs ; 
a  cupful  of  milk ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  six 
Bdston  -crackers. 

Cut  the  fish  into  inch-square  pieces,  and  pnt  over  the  fire  with 
the  onion,  celery  uid  boning  water.  Cook  tmtil  the  fish  is  tender ; 
take  out  the  pieces  with  a  skimmer ;  remove  the  bones,  and  chop 
the  fish  fine.  Strain  the  liquor  left  in  the  pot,  and  return  to  the 
fire  with  the  minced  fish,  parsley  and  crumbs.  Season  judiciously ; 
stir,  to  a  gentle  boil ;  add  the  butter,  and  lastly  the  milk,  which 
should  have  been  scalding  hot  In  another  vessel.  Simmer  one 
minute,  and  pour  upon  the  split  crackers,  these  having  been  soake<£ 
in  hot  milk,  salted,  pei^>ered  and  buttered,  and  arranged  as  a  lining 
to  the  tureen.    This  soup  is  delicioos. 

PUCASSEED  BROIX.SKS. 

deaa  catrefhlly  and  joint  a  pair  of  broiling  chickens ;  roll  each 
^eee  in  Mltod  flenr,  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  in  which  are  simmering 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  J^ARE.  367 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  clarified  dripping,  aud  one  of  butter ;  add  a 
t^tspoonful  of  chopped  onion  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  the  meat 
is  browned  lightly ;  pour  in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  season  with 
parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cloves ;  cover  closely,  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender.  Take  up  the  meat  and  keep  in  a  hot  chafing- 
dish  ;  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  sharply, 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  glass  of  claret ;  pour  upon  the  chick- 
ens, and  let  all  stand  over  hot  water  five  minutes  before  sending  to 
table.  The  fricassee  is  improved  by  the  addition  to  the  gravy  of 
a  can  of  mushrooms. 

•  •  • 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Boil  a  dozen  potatoes,  rub  them  through  a  colander,  or  whip 
them  light  with  two  forks ;  work  in,  while  hot,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  stir  in  a 
saucepan  until  smoking  hot,  beat  in  two  eggs,  and  continue  to  beat 
until  you  have  a  smooth  mass,  boiling  hot ;  turn  out  on  a  dish,  and 
let  it  get  cold ;  flour  your  hands,  make  the  mixture  into  croquettes 
and  roll  in  beaten  tgg^  then  in  cracker-crumbes ;  fry  in  plenty  of 
hot  lard*     Drain  off  the  fat  and  serve. 


Baked  Cauuflower. 

Boil  tender,  but  not  until  it  breaks ;  split  down  the  middle  with 
a  sharp  knife ;  lay  the  cut  sides  downward  in  a  bake-dish ;  pour 

*        • 

over  and  about  it  a  large  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  sift  fine  crumbs 
on  top,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  until  it  begins  to  brown.  Serve  in 
the  bake-dish.    Pass  vinegar,  or  cut  lemon  with  it. 


Peach  Pudding.  ' 

i'eel  and  stone  a  doeen  fine  peaches  ;   strew  thickly  with  sugar, 
t  set  in  a  cold  place  for  an  Jiour.     Make  a  batter  of  a  quart  of 


ir  eggs,  a  table- 
Jt,  beat  tbe  eggs 

,.^ , , , , , ^  together  for  a 

minnte ;  drain  and  wipe  the  peaches  and  lay  them  in  a  buttcrtd 
padding-dish,  poor  the  batter  over  them,  and  bake,  covered,  forty- 
five  minutes  in  a  steady  oven,  then  brown  lightly. 


Pkach  Saucb. 
Strain  the  liqnor  dimiQed  ^m  the  peaches,  and  heat  it ; 
with  six  tableBpoonfnls  of  sugar ;   stir  imtil  hot  and  clear ;   add  a 
taUet poonfdl  of  butter,  a  glass  of  brandy  and  a  pinch  of  rinnimwi. 
Kmmer  one  minute,  and  pour  into  a  boat. 


No.  24. 
BREAKFAST. 

Boglish  Oatmeal  Porridge. 

Beef  Sausages.  Raised  Mnffins. 

Stowed  Potatoes.  Brown  and  White  Bread. 

Tea.  CofEee.  Fruit. 


Bngush  Oatubal  Porridgk. 
Wet  one  cup  of  oatmeal  and  a  teaspoonfnl  of  salt  into  a  paste 
witii  cold  water,  and  stir  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  put  into  a 
farina-kettle ;  fill  the  outer  vessel  with  boiling  water,  and  set  at  one 
side  of  the  range  when  you  go  to  bed,  and  the  fire  is  low ;  stir  wetU 
be£n«  leaving  it,  and  again  before  setting  it  over  the  fire  in  the 
morning.  Do  not  pntaspoon  in  it  again,  but  cook  for  more  than 
an  konr  befixe  dialing. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  369 

Bbbp  Sausagbs. 

Chop  a  tougli  or  coarse  "  steak-piece  "  fine,  or  get  your  butcher 
to  do  it  for  you  ;  season  with  a  little  powdered  thyme,  salt,  pepper, 
a  very  little  mustard,  ateaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  pinch  of 
grated  lemon  peel;  make  into  round,  flat  cakes,  roll  in  flour, 
and  fry  in  a  little  hot  dripping  or  butter,  turning  as  they  brown. 
Drain,  and  serve  hot. 

Raised  Muffins  (without  ^;gt). 

Two  cups  of  milk ;  a  teaspoonful  of  lard  or  butter ;  three  cup6 
of  flour ;  half  a  yeast  cake ;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  sifted  with  the 
flour. 

Heat  the  milk;  stir  in  the  shortening,  and  when  blood-waim 
add  half  the  flour,  and  beat  hard  for  three  minutes  ;  let  it  rise  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  all  night ;  in  the  morning,  work  in  the  rest 
of  the  flour  and  the  salt ;  make  into  balls  and  let  it  rise  in  greased 
muffin-rings,  set  on  a  floured  board.  When  light,  slip  a  cake-turner 
under  each  and  transfer  to  a  hot  griddle  well  greased.  Turn,  when 
the  under  side  is  done.  Bat  warm,  pulling  them  open  to  butter 
them. 


LUNCHEON. 

Scalloped  Bggs.  Pried  Sweet  Potatoes.  . 

Bread.  Butter.  Pickles. 

Cold  Meat  Warm  Jelly  Cake.  Tea. 


Scalloped  Bogs. 

eggs ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  a  tablespoonful  of  battv  ]  two  t&e^ 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch ;  pepper ;  salt ;  cmmbs, 


.  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

A  Umnr  them  into  coH  water;  pedoft 

1,  chop  the  whites  very  fine  and  nib  the 

milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  butter,  cut  up 

i\  they  begin  to  thicken,  then,  add  the 

minced  vhites  and  seasoning ;  drop  bits  of  butter  on  them,  pepper 

uid  salt,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  powdered  yolks ;  next,  comes 

a  stratum  of  the  whites  and  drawn  butter,  and  a  final  crust  of  tha 

crumbs,  salted,  peppered,  and  buttered.     Bake,  covered^  twenty 

minntes,  brown  slightly,  and  serve  in  a  |ne  dish. 

FkiKD  SWEBT.  PoTATOSa 

Ped  parlxHled  sweet  potatoes  while  hot,  slice,  and  let  them  get 
cdd ;  salt  and  pepper  them,  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in  hot  dripping, 
turning  as  the  under  side  browns ;  take  up  as  fast  as  th^  are  done, 
and,  shaking  off  the  fat,  lay  on  a  heated  dish ;  serve  hot  A  nice 
way  of  disposing  of  potatoes  left  over  from  yesterday's  dinner.  In 
tiiis  case,  slice  while  warm. 

Warm  Jei.lt  Cakhs. 
iree  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  three  eggs ;  three-quarters  of  a 
'  butter ;  two  cups  of  sugar ;  a  generous  half-cup  of  milk ; 
up  of  apple,  peach,  or  other  sweet  jelly ; '  cream,  butter  and 
;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  milk,  then,  the  flour  and  whites 
ately;  bake  ia  jelly  cake  tins,  and,  while  still  warm,  spread 
he  jelly,  and  serve.    Pftss  tea  or  chocolate  with  it. 

DINNEIt 
Beef  and  Sago  Sonpi  Cod  and  Macaroni 

Uver,  a  la  Jardiniere.  Stewed  Celery  (brownl. 

Potato  Croqnettes.  Hedgehog  Padding. 

Cofiee.  F^niib 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE-  371 

Beef  and  Sago  Soup. 

Three  pounds  of  coarse  beef  minced  fine ;  three  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion  ;  half  a  cup  of  German 
sago,  soaked  for  two  hours  in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Put  beef,  onion  and  water  on  together,  and  cook  gently  four 
hours,  and  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  two  quarts  ;  season,  and  set 
aside  until  next  day;  skim  oflF  the  fat,  strain  through  a  coarse 
cloth ;  put  the  stock  back  over  the  fire,  and,  when  it  boils,  throw  in 
the  white  and  shell  of  an  ^gg ;  boil  slowly  five  minutes ;  strain  again 
without  squeezing,  return  to  the  fire  with  the  soaked  sago,  and 
simmer  fifteen  minutes. 


Cod  and  Macaroni. 

Half-pound  of  macaroni ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese ; 
one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  cod  (fresh),  minced  fine;  one  cupful  of 
warm  milk ;  one  great  spoonful  of  butter,  cut  up  in  one  of  prepared 
flour ;  salt  and  dust  of  cayenne. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  and  boil  in  salted  water 
until  clear,  but  not  broken.  While  it  is  boiling,  heat  the  milk,  stir 
in  the  floured  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  cheese.  As  it  thickens,  add 
the  minced  fish,  lastly  the  macaroni,  drained,  and  turn  into  a  deep 
dish.  Let  it  stand  in  hot  water  five  minutes  before  sending  to  table. 
Make  a  separate  course  of  it. 

Liver  a  la  Jardiniere. 

Wash  the  liver,  and  lay  it  whole  in  cold  salt-and-water  for  one 
hour ;  lard  it  then,  diagonally,  with  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  project- 
ing on  each  side ;  slice,  and  cut  into  dice  one  carrot,  half  an  onion, 
two  roots  of  oyster  plant,  and  one  turnip.  Parboil  them  for  ten 
minutes,  drain,  and  throw  into  cold  water  until  cooled ;  drain  again. 


372  SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

cover  the  bottom  of  a  broad  pot  with  them,  and  lay  the  liver  on 
them ;  pour  in  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water,  cover  closely,  and  cook 
very  slowly— turning  the  liver  once — for  three  hours.  Take  up  the 
liver,  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter ;  then,  the  vegetables  with  a  skim- 
mer, shaking  off  the  grease,  and  put  about  the  base  of  the  liver. 
Strain  the  gravy  left  in  the  pot,  thicken  with  browned  flour ;  boill 
np,  season  with  lemon  juice  and  catsup,  and  pour  some  over  the 
Kver,  most  of  it  into  a  gravy-boat.   ' 

Stewkd  Crlkrt  (brown). 
Scrape  the  stalks  of  a  bunch  of  celery,  cut  Into  inch-lengths  and 
cook  tender  in  a  cup  of  soup-stock  or  gravy,  diluted  and  strained ; 
heat  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frjdng-pan,  and  stir  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  or  so  of  browned  flonr  until  you  have  a  smooth  tvitx. 
Drain  the  celery,  add  the  liquor  (strained)  to  that  in  the  frying-pan, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  celery  in  a 
deep  dish. 

Potato  Croqtjettks. 
,  Two  cups  of  smoothly  mashed  potatoes ;  one  egg  beaten  lls:ht  • 
half  cup  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Beat  all  together  until  light,  stir  in  a  saucepan  until  hot  and 
stiffened.  Turn  out  upon  a  flat  dish  to  get  cold.  Form  It  into  cro- 
quettes, roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
dripping.  Drain  from  the  fat  in  a  split  spoon  and  arrange  on  a  hot 
platter. 

Hbdgbhog  Puddiko. 
Two  cups  of  milk;  three  eggs;  half  cup  of  sugar;  qtuuter 
pound  of  dtron ;  one  cup  of  wine ;  one  glass  of  brandy ;  one  "  brici; " 
sponge  cake. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  373 

Cut  the  citron  into  strips  an  inch  long,  and  perhaps  a  sixteenth 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  stick  in  regular  rows  along  the  top  of  the 
cake.  Some  hours  before  dinner  pour  over  it,  as  it  lies  on  the 
platter,  or  in  a  long. glass  dish,  the  wine,  then  the  brandy ;  make  a 
custard  of  the  sugar,  yolks-and-milk ;  cook,  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  and  while  lukewarm,  pour  over  the  cake ;  when  quite  cold, 
heap  a  meringue,  made  by  whipping  the  whites  stiflF  with  a  little 
powdered  sugar,  on  the  custard,  leaving  the  bristly  back  of  the 
"  hedgehog  *'  in  sight. 

No.  26. 
BREAKFAST. 

Wheaten  Grits.         Breakfast  Bacoiu  Boiled  Bggs.    ^ 

Waffles.  Cold  Bread.  Fruit 

Tea.  Coffee. 


Wheaten  Grtts. 

A  redpe  for  the  preparation  of  this  cereal  tnay  be  found  in  No.  a 
Spring. 

Breakfast  Bacon. 

Boneless  breakfast  bacon,  usually  dubbed  "  English  "  by  cour- 
tesy, is  for  sale  at  every  grocer's.  It  is  an  inevitable  adjunct  of  the 
English  breakfast,  and  a  valuable  appetizer.  "Ferris*"  is  an 
excellent  brand. 

\  Slice  it  smooth  and  thin,  and  fiy  in  its  own  fat  until  clear  and 
•*  ruffled  "  at  the  edges.  What  some  people  call  "  crisp  bacon,"  is 
overdone  and  ruined.  Drain  off  the  fat,  and  serve  dry  on  a  hat 
dish. 


I  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Boiled  Eggs. 
Wash  and  lay  m  warm — not  liot — water  until  you  are  ready  to 
put  them  on  tlie  breakfast-table.  Have  then  ready  in  an  egg-boiler 
or  other  vessel,  water  that  is  actually  on  the  boil.  Change  the  eggs 
into  it,  and  instantly  extinguish  the  spirit-lamp  beneath,  or  take 
from  the  fire.  Cover  the  vessel"  closely,  and  wrap  a  thick  cloth 
about  it  to  keep  In  the  heat.  Leave  the  eggs  in  the  water  six  min- 
utes, then  transfer  to  cups  or  glasses.  Eggs  cooked  thus  are  of 
uniform  softness  throughout,  and  far  more  wholesome  than  when 
boiled  fast,  long  enough  to  cook  the  whites  into  indigestible  tough- 
ness, leaving  the  yolks  liquid.  Eat  from  the  shell  once,  and  you 
will  never  again  prefer  to  empty  them  into  glasses. 

Waffles. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  in  which  is  mixed 
one  even  teaspoonftil  of  fine  salt ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter ;  half  a  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  warm  water ;  two  eggs ;  one 
teasppouful  of  sugar. 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  sugar  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle, 
and  pour  in  the  milk  and  butter.  Work  down  the  flour  from  the 
sides  until,  all  is  smoothly  mixed  in,  then  add  the  yeast  beaten  in 
thoroughly.  Set  to  rise  over  night ;  early  in  the  morning  put  in 
&e  beaten  eggs,  whip  hard,  and  let  the  batter  rise  half  an  hour 
Vmger,  before  baking  it  in  well-greased  waffle-irons. 

LUNCHEON. 

Beef  Loaf.  Sardines  on  Toast. 

ColdBreftd.  Crackers.  Cheese. 

Cocoanut  Cake.  Tea. 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  375 

Beef  Loaf. 

Chop  very  fine,  or  have  your  butcher  mince  two  pounds  of 
coarse  lean  beef.  Season  spicily  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  sum- 
mer savory,  or  sweet  marjoram,  and  a  cautious  sprinkling  of  minced 
onion.  Beat  two  eggs  light  and  beat  up  with  the  mass.  Press 
hard  into  a  bowl ;  fit  a  saucer  or  plate  (inverted)  upon  the  meat  and 
set  in  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling  water  to  cook  slowly  for  an  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Lay  a  weight  on  the  surface  when  it  is  done,  and 
let  it  get  perfectly  cold  before  turning  out.  Cut  in  perpendicular 
slices. 

Sardines  on  Toast. 

Take  the  saidines  £rom  the  box,  lay  on  soft  paper  to  absorb  l^e 
fat,  pressing  another  sheet  of  paper  on  them.  Have  n  triangles  of 
delicately  browned  and  buttered  toast  on  a  dish ;  lay  a  sardine  on 
each,  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 


CocoANUT  Care. 

Two  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  one  heaping  cup  of  powdered 
sugar ;  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  half  a  cup  of  inilk ;  three  eggs  ; 
one  grated  cocoanut,  mixed  with  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  and 
left  to  stand  two  hours. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks, 
the  milk,  then  the  frothed  whites  and  the  flour.  Bake  in  jelly  cake 
tins ;  spread  the  cocoanut  and  sugar  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 


DINNBR. 

Lobster  Chowder.         Braised  VeaL        Potato  Hilloeks. 

Stewed  Tomato.  Indian  Meal  Puddiny. 

.  Fruit.  Coffee. 


OF  FARE. 

wdbr. 

it  from  the  shell,  and  cnt  into 

crackers,  split  and  buttered ; 
scant  quarter-teaspoonful  of 
it  rolled  in  one  of  prepared 

Scald  the  milk,  and  stir  in  seasoning,  butter  and  flour ;  cook 
Aue  minute ;  add  the  lobster,  and  simmer  five  minutes.  Line  a 
tureen  with  the  toasted  and  buttered  crackers,  dipping  each  quickly 
in  b(nling  water  before  putting  it  in  place,  and  pour  in  the  chowder. 
Send  axDond  sliced  lemon  with  it 

Brabbd  VBAt. 
Chop  a  hal^ponnd  of  fat  salt  pork  fine,  and  put  half  of  it  in 
the  bottom  of  a  broad  pot ;  sprinkle  it  with  minced  onion,  sweet 
herbs,  and  a  teaspoonfhl  of  chopped  carrot.  Lay  a  breast  of  veal 
on  this  bed,  and  cover  it  with  a  similar  layer.  Pour  in  carefully  a 
qnait  of  weak  .broth,  if  yon  have  it  If  not,  cold  water;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Fit  a  tight  lid  on  the  top  and  set  it  where  it 
«ook  slowly — ^very  slowly — for  two  hours  at  least.  Now  take  up 
the  meat,  rub  butter  all  oijer  it,  and  dredge  thickly  with  browned 
flour.  Put  it  into  a  dripping-pan,  strain  the  gravy  from  the  pot  into 
this,  not  pouring  it  on  the  meat,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  goodi 
rven,  basting,  every  five  minutes  with  the  gravy.  Transfer  the  veal 
to  a  hot  dish,  thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  browned  flour  wet 
with  cold  water;  boil  np,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Potato  Hillocks. 
Whip  hcXitA  potatoes  light  with  a  little  butter  and  milk,  and 
■nuKm  with  salt  and  pepper.    Beat  in  a  raw  egg  to  bind  the  mix> 


SUMMER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  377 

ture,  shape  iuto  small  conical  heaps;  set  in  a  greased  pan,  and  as 
they  brown  glaze  with  the  butter.  The  oven  must  be  very  hot. 
Slip  a  cake  turner  under  each  hillock,  and  transfer  to  a  hot  platter. 


Stewed  Tomato. 

One  dozen  ripe  tomatoes ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one  table- 
spoouful  of  sugar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  to  loosen  the  skins.  Peel, 
cut  iuto  quarters,  and  stew  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  butter,  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  leave  them  on  the  fire  for  twenty  minutes 
longer.     Turn  into  a  deep  vegetable  dish. 


Indian  Meal  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  yellow  Indian  meal ;  one  quart  and  a  cupful  of  milk ; 
three  eggs ;  half  a  cup  of  molasses  ;  one  generous  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  half 
teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  mace. 

Scald  the  salted  meal  with  the  water.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  farina 
kettle ;  stir  in  the  scalded  meal  and  boil,  stirring  often,  for  half  an 
hour.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  put  in  the  butter-and-molasses  stirred  . 
together  until  they  are  several  shades  lighter  than  at  first,  add  the 
spice,  lastly,  the  batter  from  the  farina  kettle,  beaten  in,  a  little  at 
a  time,  until  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incorporated. 
Grease  a  pudding-dish,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake,  covered,  in  a 
steady  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  lid  and  brown. 
This  is  the  genuine,  old-fashioned  New  England  "  Indian "  pud- 
ding.    Eat  with  sauce,  or  with  cream  and  sugar.     It  is  very  nice. 


The  Plague  of  Flies. 

IT  became  apparent  by  the  time  tie  last  month  of  our  nominal 
American  spring  was  half-gone,  that  the  year  of  which  I  write 
was  to  be  cursed  by  a  full  "  fly  season."  One  week  of  unsea- 
sonably warm  weather  brought  the  buzzing  horde  out  in  force 
from  the  mysterious  comers  into  which  the  dear  old  cleau-out-of- 
fashion-and-oiit-of-mind  "  Cobwebs  io  catch  flies  "  used  to  tell  us,  the 
harmless  little  fly  "  crept  to  sleep  all  winter."  In  our  home,  we  bum 
the  contents  of  our  dust-pans,  and,  as  winter  shows  signs  of  abdicating 
in  favor  of  beauteous  spring,  we  redouble  our  zeal  in  sweeping  rooms 
and  suspicious  examination  of  carpet  edges.  Rugs  are  shaken  harder 
and  oftener,  closets  inspected,  and  their  contents  sifted  rigorously. 
The  dogma  that  with  the  fluff  collected  by  the  broom  go  into  the 
fire  the  eggs  of  house-flies,  the  larvse  of  moths,  etc.,  is  held  in 
cheerful  sincerity  of  belief.  Not  that  we — or  any  of  our  acquaint- 
ances—ever saw  a  house-fly  egg  [genus  Mused),  But,  reasoning 
from  analogy,  we  assume  that  this  is  the  Muscan  method  of  repro- 
duction illimitable,  of  maddening  multiplication. 

In  this  fateful  year,  Tyndall's  fascinating  treatise  on  "  Dust  and 
Disease  "  had  been  read  in  our  home  circle,  and,  as  a  consequence, 
A  mild  craze  on  the  subject  of  bacteria  and  infusoria  possessed  most 
of  us.  Spontaneous  generation  was  demonstrated  by  onr  puthor  to 
be  an  exploded  myii. 


THE  PLAGUE  OF  FLIES.  379 

Upon  housewifely  fidelity  depended  the  health  and  comfort  of 
tile  family.  Where  no  dust  was,  disease-germs  were  niL  When 
our  round  of  exploration  was  ended,  we  hugged  ourselves  in  the 
conviction  that  not  a  loophole  remained-  unguarded. 

The  hot  spell  in  May  awoke  us  rudely  from  our  dream  of  secu- 
rity. If  frogs  had  hopped  into  our  kneading-troughs,  or  hailstones 
and  fire  that  ran  along  the  ground  swept  our  thoroughfares,  we 
could  hardly  have  been  more  confounded  than  by  ocular  proof  that 
Musca  ova  by  the  tens  of  thousands  had  lain  untouched  by  broom  or 
duster  in  more-than-ever  mysterious  "  comers,"  and  had  awakened 
at  the  call  of  the  south-wind  along  with  violets,  tulips  and  spring 
bonnets.  Disdainful  of  larvae  and  polywog  precedent,  each  of  the 
myriads,  for  all  we  could  see  to  the  contrary,  was  hatched  full 
grown,  with  more  than  the  regular  number  of  legs,  and  a  "  sta3dng 
power  "  of  voracity  that  would  have  done  credit  to  a  condor. 

They  descended  and  ascended  upon  us,  terrible  as  an  army 
with  banners  and  bagpipes.  Their  hum  above  our  tables,  their 
titillating  touch  upon  our  noses  and  lips  in  what  we  could  not  call 
*'sleeping-rooms"  after  daylight — ^were  tease  and  torment ;  the  foray 
of  legions  in  the  kitchen  was  disgust  and  desperation. 

Flies  and  dirt — seen  or  unseen — are  too  closely  joined  together 
in  the  housekeeper's^  mind  to  be  put  asunder  while  reason  endures. 
The  domestic  brigade  sprang  to  arms.  Fly-doors  were  hung  in  all 
the  portals  that  opened  into  the  outer  world ;  wire-screens  fitted 
into  every  window ;  rooms  that  always  have  been  clean,  were  sub* 
jected  to  such  scouring  and  brushing  and  burnishing  as  raised  them 
above  hypercritical  suspicion ;  cool  dusks  reigpaed  throughout  the 
house  while  the  sun  was  above  the  horizon.  Bach  morning,  the 
brigade,  armed  with  palm-leaf  fans  and  damp  towels,  charged  upon 
the  winged  battalions,  beat  out  all  that  could  be  exjpelled  from  the 
fort,  then  massacred  the  stragglers.     Each  day,  forgetful  of  post 


OF  FLIES. 

last  victory  had  percted  upon 
our  dusters.  In  half  an  hour,  into  library,  sewing-room,  most  of 
all,  kitchen  and  dining-room,  stole  the  shrill  droning  of  a  hundred 
tiny  bagpipes,  the  slogan  of  a  reconstructed  host.  We  had  met  the 
enemy  and  were,  as  usual,  theirs. 

The  balloon-shaped  fly-trap,  made  of  wire  netting,  set  above  a 
isaucer  containing  a  seductive  mixture  of  treacle  and  pepper,  slew 
its  thousands.  We  gave  them  the  benefit  of  no  probability  of  actual 
decease,  but  cremated  the  mass,  animate  and  inanimate,  *'  in  one 
red  burial  blent "  in  the  kitchen  grate.  Drowned  flies,  buried  flies, 
flies  that  have  been  stunned  and  crushed,  come  to  life.  The  tena- 
city with  which  they  hold  to  a  vampire-like  existence  is  as  mirac- 
t  ulons  as  their  incubation  in  "  comers  "  nobody  ever  finds.  '  They 
are  never  fairly  dead  except  in  the  shape  of  coal-ashes. 

The  clock-woi;k  fly-trap  revolved  by  day  and  by  night,  and  slew 
its  ten  thousands,  until  it  seemed  as  if  the  number  consumed  must 
make  an  appreciative  difference  in  the  quantity  of  fuel  used  per 
diem. 

And  still  the  buzz  and  tickling  and  swarming  went  on.  We 
'  inhaled  no  air  save  such  as  was  strained  through  reticulated  wire, 
but. the  mustering  of  the  Musca  myriad  was  as  if  the  filtered  ele- 
jnent  had  taken  visible  and  auricular  life.  The  plague  was  phenom- 
enal. Where  did  they  come  from  ?  What  did  their  appearance 
and  aojonm  portend  ?  We  were  ashamed  with  a  humiliation  every 
properly-trained  housewife  will  comprehend.  But  for  the  danger  to 
surrounding  buildings,  it  is  possible  that  we  might  have  lent  obe- 
dient heed  to  the  proposition  of  the  chief  of  our  clan,  and  burned 
down  the  house  to  get  rid  of  the  flies. 

To  us,  in  extremity,  drifted  a  newspaper-scrap  which  was  neither 
[  nor  judicial.  Somebody  picked  it  up  somewhere.  A  drown- 
an  wonld  have  caught  at  it,  as  we  did,  had  it  bobbed  at  him 


THB  PLAGUE  OF  FUES.  381 

■ 

fix>m  the  crest  of  the  wave.  It  was  not  quite  expKcit  in  the  direo^ 
tions  it  conveyed,  but  we  got  at  the  meaning  of  the  extract  and  put 
ft  into  practice  as  follows :  We  had  Persian  insect  powder  in  th« 
house,  also  the  implement,  in  shape  like  a  big  hunting-watch^  with 
a  small  pipe  let  into  one  side,  with  which  we  had  projected  the  yet 
low  dust  into  comers  where  might  lurk  the  eggs  or  pupae  of  moths. 
This  we  charged  to  the  nozzle.  That  night,  the  kitchen  and 
dining-room  were  cleared  of  such  small  articles  as  would  have  to  be 
washed  if  the  powder  fell  on  them ;  windows  and  doors  were  made 
fast,  and  an  operator,  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  floor,  worked 
the  spring-top  of  the  round  case  that  expelled  the  powder,  throwing 
it  upward  at  an  angle  of  forty-five  degrees,  toward  every  comer 
and  side  of  the  apartment.  We  used  a  boxful  in  each  room,  then 
half  as  much  on  each  succeeding  occasion.  The  rooms  were  not 
entered  again  until  morning. 

Cook  declared  that  she  swept  up  "a  full  pint  of  the  little  bastes.'' 
The  waitress  did  not  measure  her  trophies,  but  reported  that  floor 
and  furniture  were  strewed  with  bodies.  It  was  a  miniature  edition 
of  the  destruction  of  Sennacherib  by  an  unseen  agent.  To  make 
sure  that  our  foes  were  like  his  army,  all  dead  corpses,  we  con^ 
signed  them  without  delay  to  the  crematory. 

This  was  d(me  on  Saturday  night ;  an  ineffable  peace  reigned 
over  our  Sunday  breakfast 

"  It  is  too  good  to  be  true  I "  said  one.  "  I  am  reverently  thank« 
ful.  I  have  felt  for  weeks  as  if  the  shadow  of  Moses'  rod  rested  on 
our  house." 

Another : — "  The  marvel  is  that  Pharoah  hardened  his  heart 
again.    1  have  less  respect  for  his  common  sense  than  ever  before.'* 

* 

Still  another : — "  Our  text  runs  in  my  mind  continually :— * 
•  They  did  take  their  food  with  gladness  and  singleness  of  heart' " 


IE  PLAGUE  OF  FLIES. 

Toward  evening,  the  vanquished  leaders  sent  in  scouts,  few  in 
number,  and  wary,  to  reconnoiter  the  battlefield.  A  repetition  of 
the  experiment  of  the  preceding  evening  left  not  one  to  cany  the 
tale. 

If  I  have  told  it  lightly,  it  is  not  hecatise  the  infliction  was  not 
grkvons,  and  the  deliverance  welcome  beyond  expression.  Since 
theiif  we'have  held  our  own  successfully  in  the  height  of  "  fly- 
tiine."  In  very  hot  weather  the  powder  is  used  every  night  for  a 
week  or  two  at  a  time ;  in  ordinary  circumstances,  and  by  observing 
common  precaution  in  the  matter  of  screen-doors  and  darkened 
rooms,  twice  or  three  times  a  week  suffice  to  keep  the  premises 
clear.  While  the  remedy  leaves  no  trace  of  its  recent  presence  to 
sight  or  smell,  after  the  floor  is  swept  and  the  furniture  dusted,  we 
have  not  thought  it  prudent  to  use  it  in  bed-chambers.  But  we 
have  learned  that  kitchen  and  dining-room  are  the  enemy's  head- 
quarters, and  that  heroic  measures  here  cut  off  supplies  from  the 
upper  part  of  the  house. 

I  shall  esteem  myself  happy  if  this  humble  sketch  may  be  the 
"means  of  extending  the  knowledge  of  a  device  so  simple,  yet  so 
efficacious,  in  abating  one  of  the  most  annoying  of  minor  nuisances 
of  daily  life  in  summer  weather. 


The  Dinner-Pail. 

T  ¥  I  HILE  sitting  on  the  piazza  of  a  house  in  a  New  England 
III  town  two  or  three  years  ago,  a  mirthful  caprice  moved 
^^^^  me  to  count  what  the  young  people  about  me  named 
the  "  pail-brigade."  A  few  minutes  after  six  o'clock, 
the  pleasant  street  was  the  thoroughfare  to  the  upper  suburbs  for 
many  of  the  operatives  in  a  large  down-town  factory.  Out  of  150 
of  these,  140  carried  dinner-pails,  7,  baskets,  and  3  were  empty- 
handed.  The  questioh  was  then  suggested  and  discussed  as 
to  the  superior  convenience  of  the  close,  airless  pail  over  the  basket 
for  conveyance  of  a  cold  lunch. 

What  is  known  as  the  "  picnic  basket "  is  heavy  and  costly. 
Othenvise,  the  .  neat  service  of  plate  and  china  stowed  away  in 
sockets  made  fast  to  the  sides  and  top,  would  soon  drive  the 
unsightly  tin  vessel  from  the  field.  A  stout  willow  basket  of  con- 
venient size,  with  straight  sides  and  a  well-fitted  cover,  can  be  made 
as  commodious  by  the  exercise  of  a  little  feminine  ingenuity.  I^t 
inch-wide  strips  of  linen,  doubled  and  stiched  at  the  edges,  be 
tacked  in  loops  on  the  inside,  with  white  flax  thread  t^at  will 
be  scarcely  visible  on  the  exterior.  In  these  keep  knives,  forks, 
spoons,  pepper  and  salt  cruets,  and  napkins.  Lay  a  folded  napkin 
in  the  bottom,  another  over  all,  when  the  provisions  are  packed  in 
the  interior ;  tie  the  top  in  place  with  a  bright  ribbon  or  braid,  and 


^84  THB  DINNBR  PAH* 

you  Iiave  wlut^  while  it  is  really  a  paxmler  (from  tlie  Latin  pax 
bread),  might  be  a  pretty  hamper  of  fruit  and  flowers,  such  as  an 
opulent  householder  would  be  willing  to  carry  to  a  neighbor.  Dr. 
Holland's  celebrated  essay  on  The  Little  Tin  Pail^  may  do  much 
to  modify  thf  essential  commonness  of  the  utensil  to  those  who 
have  read  it  But  it  is  not  false  pride  that  makes  a  man  unwilling 
to  proclaim  2o  the  street-car  and  sidewalk  public :  ^'  I  am  taking  my 
dinner  wi\h  me  to  my  shop  or  factory."  The  editor  does  not  care  to 
wear  hi^  v^n  behind  his  ear  abroad,  nor  the  clerg}rman  his  gown  and 
bands.     Good  taste  avoids  the  ^^  shoppy  '*  flavor  in  places  of  general 


Tht;  actual  drawbacks  of  the  'kittle  tin  pail''  outweigh  the 
'  ttsthitic  objections. .  Fresh  bread  becomes  sodden,  pastry  heavy, 
ix&d  the  most  strongly  flavored  edible  wins  the  day  to  the  extent  of 
ll^eping  all  the  contents  of  the  vessel  in  its  own  odor  by  dinner- 
lime.  To  this  are  superadded  the  smell  and  taste  of  the  imventi* 
Vited  chamber,  large  or  small,  in  which  provisions  are  kept 

Before  offering  recipes  for  some  oif  the  scores  of  dainty  lunches^ 
neither  expensive  nor  difficult  oif  preparation,  with  which  the 
monotony  of  the  mid-day  meal  may  be  varied,  let  me  enter  a  plea 
for  the  stomach  of  a  tired  man  whose  appetite  has  been  dulled  by 
mechanical,  in-door  toiL  He  needs  a  more  cunning  caterer  than 
does  he  whom  fresh  air  and  the  fragrance  of  growing  things 
provide  with  sauce  for  his  daily  saleratus  biscuit  and  fat  saltj 
pork. 

You  cannot  tempt  the  artisan  with  the  revelation  of  hot  roast, 
fricassees,  and  warm  vegetables,  as  he  opens  pail  or  hamper,  but 
neither  need  you  give  him  every  day  slices  of  cold  meat,  packed 
,  between  bread  and  butter  "  hunks,"  with  pickles  and  pie  as  afler- 
oourses.  Keep  on  hand  tissue-paper  in  which  to  wrap  his  sand^ 
wichesi ;  save  up  candy  and  Chp^mas-boxes  for  cake ;  buy  fanciful 


THE  DINNER.PADU  383 

(and  cheap)  flasks  and  cruets  for  condiments.  See  that  lie  has  a 
clean  napkin  daily — not  a  cere-cloth  in  which  the  dead  smell  of 
yesterday's  lunch*  is  enfolded.  In  hot  weather,  tell  him  to  buy  . 
ice  at  noon  for  the  bottle  of  sugared  tea  or  caft  an  lait  you  hare 
put  in  cold,  lest  the  warmth  should  melt  butter  and  soften  meat 
The  sandwich  family  is  most  useful  and  popular  when  th« 
business  of  the  hour  is  the  preparation  of  a  |)ortable  lunch.  The 
general  directions  for  sandwich  manufacture  are  the  same*  in  all 
cases.  Butter  the  end  of  the  loaf  smoothly,  slice  thin  with  a  keen 
knife,  and  pare  off  the  crust.  Cut  in  triangles,  or  in  long,  narrow 
strips,  or  give  the  full  size  of  the  loaf-slice,  as  you  like.  Lay  the 
filling  thickly  on  the  butterod  side  of  one  piece,  and  press  the  fel^ 
low,  buttered  side  inward,  gently  upon  it.  Make  all  into  uni- 
form  shape  and  dimensions,  that  you  may  pile  them  into  a  neat  paiod. 


Ham  Sandwichb& 

Chop  the  meat,  lean  and  fat,  fine;  season  with  pepper,  and  if 
agreeable,  a  very  little  mustard.  The  yolks  of  two  or  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  minced  and  worked  in  with  the  meat,  make  a  pleasant 
change. 

Chbbss  and  Egg  Sandwichbs. 

Orate  the  cheese,  and  to  each  cupful  add  tlie  yolks  of  ihxee 
hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  fine ;  rub  to  a  paste  with  a  teaspooniul  of 
butter,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  between 
buttered  bread  or  crackers.    These  are  nice  made  of  graham  bread* 


Sardins  Sandwichbs. 

Wash  the  <nl  from  a  dozen  sardines,  wipe  them  dry,  talce  out 
the  back-bones,  and  scrape  with  a  knife  and  fork  to  a  paste ;  season 
with  pepper  and  lemon-juice,  and  lay  between  buttered  aliees  of  bmd. 


•    ■  'i".-.  <  ■        ■       ■  .     * 


■  <  .« 


'4 


386  THE  DINNER  PAIL. 

Bacon  and  Mutton  Sandwichbs. 

!fty  slices  of  breakfast-bacon  in  tbeir  own  fat,  and  let  them  get 
cold ;  slice  cold  mntton,  lamb  or  veal  thin,  pepper  lightly,  ancS  lay 
on  a  buttered  slice  of  bread ;  on  the  meat  one  or  two  bits  of  bacon, 
and  cover  with  the  fellow-slice  of  bread  and  butter.  Proceed  thus 
until  all  the  materials  are  used  up. 


Crackkr  and  Anchovy  Sandwichbs. 
These  are  rathet  an  "  appetizer,"  than  substantial  food.     Toast' 

* 

split  Boston  crackers  or  whole  "  snow-flakes  "  lightly ;  butter  while 
hot,  and  when  cool,  spread  with  anchovy  paste.  Put  together  of 
course,  with  the  butter  and  paste  inside. 


DsviLBD  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Divide  into 
halves  cut  crosswise,  take  out  the  yolks  and  rub  to  a  paste  with  a 
generous  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a 
suspicion  of  mustard. 

'  Mold  into  balls  the  size  and  shape  of  the  abstracted  yolks,  put 
back 'into  the  hollowed  whites,  fit  the  halves  neatly  together  and 
roll  ^each  egg  up  in  tissue  paper,  as  you  would  a  bon-bon,  twisting 
the  paper  at  the  ends.  If  you  wish  to  make  the  entree  ornamental, 
fringe  the  squares  of  paper  before. enveloping  the  eggs.  They  are 
yet  more  savory  if  you  have  some  minced  giblets  (boiled  and  cold) 
to  mix  with  the  yolks,  and  a  little  gravy  with  which  to  moist^i  the 
paste. 

CmcKittT  Salad. 

A.  can  of  boned  chicken  will  make  enough  for  two  daiys.    Misee 

coarsely,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pack  into  a  small  bowl 


THE  DINNER-PAIL.  ;j87 

or  cup.  In  dnother,  put  some  crisp  lettuce-leaves  with  a  small, 
lump  of  ice,  tie  a  piece  of  cloth  over  the  top,  paper  over  this,  and 
set  securely  in  the  bottom  of  the  basket.  Pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
Durkee's  incomparable  salad-dressing  into  a  wide-mouthed  phial, 
and  cork  it.  With  this,  send  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  and 
instruct  your  John  to  drain  the  lettuce  at  lunch-time,  and  after 
lining  the  bowl  with  the  leaves,  to  put  the  chicken  on  them,  and 
pour  the  dressing  upon  the  chicken. 


Oaulntinb. 

A  redpc  for  this  was  given  in  No.  5  Spring,    It  is  spicily 
tempting  to  a  hungry  man,  easily  made,  and  keeps  well. 


Fruit. 


Instead  of  the  blunt  triangle  of  leathery  pie  which  will  emerge 
from  nineteen  out  of  twenty  dinner  pails  opened  by  his  comrades, 
provide  John  with  fresh  fruit  in  its  season. 

Oranges,  bananas  and  grapes  cost  no  more  than  pie ;  apples, 
berries,  and,  in  summer,  peaches,  less,  when  the  original  price  is 
counted.  If  we  estimate  the  ruin  wrought  upon  digestion  by  pastry 
and  doughnuts,  we  are  ready  to  affirm  that  he  could  better  aflford 
hot-house  fruits  at  their  dearest,  than  to  satisfy  the  cravings  of 
nature  with  these  home-made  "  delicacies." 


Bread. 

Do  not  butter  bread  or  biscuits  while  hot,  for  John's  luadneott, 
or  put  then  in  his  pail  or  (basket)  until  they  are  quite  oald. 
Always  give  him  crackers  and  cheese  to  aid  digestion  and  '^  topH>ff '' 
the  repast* 


3S8  .  THE  DINNER  PAIL. 

Pickled  Oystbrs, 

in  their  seasonj  are  not  an  expensive  article  of  diet  A  C[uart  at 
forty  cents,  put  up  by  yourself  in  ten  minutes'  time,  at  a  cost  of 
perhaps  five  cents  for  vinegar  and  spices,  will  make  a  couple  of 
delightful  luncP-es,  with  what  the  French  call  "  bread  at  discretioc," 
and  for  desscf>^  >*.  couple  of  baked  apples,  with  or  withcat  si^pu-  and 
«ream. 


Autumn  Bills  of  Fare. 

Na  86. 

.     BREAKFAST. 

Wheaten  Grits. 

MnttoQ  Chops  and  Mashed  Potatoes.        Bgg-GemM, 

Cold  Bread.  Toast 

Oranges.  Oo£Ebe.  Chocsolate. 


MurroM  CBortL 

If  yoor  Imtdier  has  not  ttimmed  the  chops  Into  shape,  remonng 

the  skin  and  most  of  the  fat,  do  it  yonrself ;  then  flatten  them  vitb 
the  broad  side  of  a  hatchet.  Broil  quickly  and  caxefhlly  orer  a 
clear  fire,  lifting  the  gridiron  when  there  is  danger  of  bnminj^ 
Have  ready  the  block-tin  platter  of  a  chafing-dish,  heaped  in  ths 
middle  with  mashed  potatoes,  which  have  been  worked  light  with 
butter  and  milk.  About  this  mound  arrange  the  chops,  the  laxg« 
ends  downward,  the  small  ones  inclining  toward  tha  sumnut  of  the 
hillock.    Pass  currant-JMlly  with  tlwBk 


BILLS  OF  FARB. 
Egg-Gbus. 

Four  eggs ;  fimr  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  chopped  into  the  flour ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  sifted  with  the, flour.  Whip  the  yolks  thick  and  smooth,  add 
the  milk,  the  whites,  Anally  the  flour,  stirred  in  quickly  and  hard; 
half  fill  heated  gem-pans  with  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
'  Send  to  table  as  soon  as  they  are  done. 


LUNCHEON. 

Stewed  Lobster. 

Toasted  Crackers.  Saratoga  Potatoes, 

Bread  and  Batter.  Apple  I^rramid. 

Light  Cakes. 


Stewbd  Lobsteol 

One  can  of  lobster;  one  cup  of  good  broth,  cleared  of  fat,  and 
strained  through  a  cloth ;  half  a  cup  of  milk ;  juice  of  a  lemon ;  two 
tablespooniuls  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  flour;  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt       ^ 

Open  the  can  early  in  the  day,  emp^ng  the  contents  into 
■  a  bowl,  and  setting  this  in  a  cold  place.  Cut  the  meat  into  clean 
dice,  heat  the  broth,  seasoned  in  a  saucepan,  and,  as  it  boils,  lay  in 
the  lobster ;  cook  ten  minutes  gently,  add  the  lemon,  and  cover  at 
the  side  of  the  range  for  five  minutes.  Have  the  milk  hot  in  a 
farina-kettle,  stir  it  into  the  floured  butter,  and  cook  three  minutes. 
Pour  the  lobster  into  a  deep  dish,  then,  carefully,  mixing  in  well^ 
the  scalding  thickened  milk,  and  serve. 


Old 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  391 

Toasted  Crackers. 

Toast  split  Boston,  or  whole  snowflake  crackers  quickly  and 
lightly  on  both  sides,  butter  while  hot  and  pass  with  the  lobster* 
Also,  lemon  cut  into  eighths. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. 

If  you  have  not  time  to  fry  these  yourself,  buy  them  fresh  from 
your  grocer.    When  good,  they  are  really  nice.    When  bad,  few 
things  more  detestable  find  their  way  to  the  tables  of  civilized  peo- 
ple.    Heat  them  quickly  in  the  oven  and  take  them  out  before  they . 
are  brown.    Send  to  table  in  a  deep  dish  lined  with  a  hot  napkin* 


Apple  Pyramid. 

Pare,  halve  and  core  a  dozen  fine  tart  apples,  dropping  into  cold 
water  as  you  pare  them.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  the  strained 
juice  of  two  lemons  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Lay  the  apples  in  this, 
coating  each  piece  with  the  mixture.  Cover  closely  and  set  in  a 
vessel  of  hot  water,  which  bring  to  a  slow  boil.  Leave  the  apples 
on  until  they  are  tender  and  clear ;  take  out  with  care  not  to  break 
tliem  ;  pile  them  in  the  form  of  a  cone  on  a  stone  china  dish ;  co^rtt 
with  a  meringue  made  by  frothing  die  whites  of  four  eggs,  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  pour  the  syrup  around  the  base  and  se^  i» 
•  he  oven  to  color  lightly*    Bat  cold  with  light  cakes. 


DINNER. 

Turnip  Pur6e. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. 
Steamed  Onions.  Tomatoes  and  Conk 

Batter  Pudding.  Cream  Sauoe* 

Fruit.     Coffee. 


AUTUMN  BILI^  OF  FARB. 
TxjRNip  Puree. 

■ 

Wben  the  corned  beef  is  half  done  dip  ont  a  quart  of  the  liqnoTi 
cool  and  skim,  and  strain  it  through  a  thick  cloth.  Set  it  ovei  the 
fire  with  a  dozen  turnips  (white),  pared  and  sliced;  half  of  a  small 
onion,  chopped ;  a  stalk  of  celery,  and  boil  until  soft.  Rub  through 
a  colander  back  into  the  If quor ;  season  with  pepper  and  a  handful 
of.  minced  parsley,  and  return  to  the  fire  with  two  tablespoonfals  of 
butter  cut  up  in  as  much  flour.  Heat  in  another  vessel  half  a  cup- 
ful of  milk,  with  a  bit  of  soda  not  larger  than  a  pea.  When  the 
pur^e  has  cooked  three  minutes,  stir  in  the  milk  and  pour  into  th^ 
turceu* 


BOILBD  CORNBD  BBBP« 

Let  the  beef  lie  in  cold  water  for  two  hours  to  draw  out  the  salt 
CoYer  it.  then  with  plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  fast  for  fifteen 
minutes.  At  this  point,  arrest  the  boil  by  pouring  in  a  pint  of  cold  * 
water.  The  advantage  of  this  process  is  to  form  a  band  of  cooked 
flesh  about  the  piece  to  be  boiled  which  will  keep  in  the  juices. 
Henceforward,  let  the  boiling  be  steady  and  slow,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  for  each  pound.  When  done,  lift  the  pot  from  the  fire,  and 
even  if  the  beef  is  to  be  served  hot,  let  it  stand  in  the  liquor  for 
ten  minutes  before  dishing  it.  If  you  prefer  it  cold,  leave  it  still 
longer,  and  on  taking  it  out,  lay  a  large  dish  or  plate  on  top, 
with  a  couple  of  flat  irons  or  other  heavy  articles  to  press  it,  not 
removing  them  until  the  meat  is  cold  and  stiflF.  This  should  be 
done  after  dinner  when  it  is  served  hot.  Send  drawn  butter  in  with: 
hot  corned  beef;  ialso  horse-radish. 


Creamed  Onions. 

Boil  the  onions  in  two  waters — hot— putting  a  little  salt  in  the 
second.     If  they  are  fall  grown  they  will  require  at  least  an  hour 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  393 

aad  a  half  to  cook  them  tender.  Drain,  and  pack  them  in  a  bake- 
dish ;  pour  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  in  which  milk  is  used  instead 
of  water,  over  them,  sprinkle  with  fine  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt 
lightly,  and  bake,  covered,  fifteen  minutes,  then  brown.  There  is 
no  nicer  way  of  cooking  ripe  onions  than  tips* 


Tomatoes  and  Corn. 

Open  a  can  of  com  and  one  of  tomatoes  early  in  the  day,  and 
empty  half  the  contents  of  each  into  a  bowl,  and  leave  it,  uncovered| 
in  a  cold  place,  until  you  are  ready  to  cook  it.  Put  tomatoes  and 
com  into  a  saucepan,  and  stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  After  it 
boils,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  as  much  salt,  and  a  quarter 
OS  much  pepper,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  cook  five  minutes 
longeii  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 


Batter  Pudding. 

Two  even  cups  of  Hecker's  prepared  flour ;  two  cups  of  mUk ; 
four  eggs ;  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  add  thie  milk 
and  salt  to  the  yolks,  then  whites  and  flour  alternately,  pour  into  a 
buttered  mold,  and  boil  or  steam  for  two  hours.  Eat  with  cream 
sauce. 


Cream  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  sugar ;  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  one-half  cupful  of  milk ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  one  even  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot ; 
vanilla  flavoring. 


S  OF  FARE. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  arrowroot,  wet  up  with  ooM 
milk,  and  add  the  butter.  Pour  this  on  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  stir  one  minute,  just  long  enough  to  heat  the 
'  yolks,  not  to  curdle  them.  Pour  into  a  sauceboat,  flavor  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  vantUa  and  set  in  hot  water  (not  boiling)  uutil  you 
are  ready  for  it 

Frotp.  ' 
It  is  a  pretty  custom  in  some  families  to  have  a  dish  of  findt 
tastefully  arranged  on  the  table  at  every  meal.  Finger  bowls,  with 
ornamental  doilies  between  them  and  the  fruit  plates,  are  half  filled 
■with  water  and  a  silver  knife  laid  on  each  plate,  all  on  the  buffet,  in 
case  they  are  called  for  at  breakfast  and  lunch,  and  are  set  on  the 
table  after  the  dinner-sweets  are  removed.  Nobody  is  obliged  to 
partake  of  this  course,  but  nearly  everybody  likes  a  taste  of  grateful 
£mit  add  to  remove  the  cloyment  of  puddings,  pies,  etc.,  from  the 
tongue. 

No.  27. 

BREAKFAST. 

,  Oatmeal  Porridge.  Beef  Hash  au  gratin. 

Barbara's  Griddle  Cakes. 

Baked  PoUtoes.  Fruit. 

Tea.  ■  Coffee. 


BftEF  Hash  an  gratin. 

Chop  cold  boiled  or  roast  beef  quite  fine,  removing  all  the  string 
and  bits  of  tough  skin ;  salt  and  pepper  :t»  and  mix  with  one-half 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE-  395 

as  mucli  mashed  (lunipless)  potatoes  as  you  have'  meat  Put  a  cup 
©f  good  gravy  and  half  a  teaspoouful  of  mustard  into  a  frying-pan 
with  half  a  teaspoouful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  If  you  have  no 
gravy,  substitute  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  a  good  spoonful  of 
butter,  seasoned  as  above.  When  the  gravy  boils,  put  in  the  meat 
and  potatoes ;  toss  and  stir  until  it  is  very  hot,  and  bubbles  all  over. 
Turn  out  upon  a  stone-china  dish  or  the  block-tin  platter  of  your 
chafing-dish,  strew  thickly  with  fine  crumbs,  and  brown  lightly  on 
the  upper  grating  of  your  oven.    Serve  in  the  disk 


Barbara's  Griddlr  Cakes. 

Two  cups  of  Indian  meal ;  one  cup  of  flour ;  three  eggs ;  half  a 
teaspoouful  of  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  the  same  of 
molasses ;  three  cups  of  milk ;  half  a  teaspoouful  of  soda. 

Wet  the  meal  into  a  good  mush  with  boiling  wiater ;  cook  in  a 
farina-kettle  for  an  hour,  stirring  often ;  turn  out  atid  beat  it  smooth* 
Do  this  over  night  In  the  morning  beat  in  the  melted  lard,  the 
molasses,  the  eggs,  the  milk,  at  last  the  flour,  sifted  twice, with  the 
salt  and  soda.    Beat  up  well  and  bake  on  a  greased  griddle. 


Bakbd  Potatoes. 

Select  large,  fine  sweet,  or  Irish  potatoes ;  wash  them  kcA  bake 
in  their  skins  in  a  steady  oven  until  soft,  turning  them  often  hm 
they  cook.    Send  to  table  wrapped  in  a  napkixL 


LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  in  Bed.  Fried  Pigs'  Feet 

Deviled  Tomatoes. 

Bread  and  Butter.  Crackers  and  Cheese. 

fe  auLaii  Cake. 


HUTUMN   BILLS  OF  FARB. 

OVSTBRS  IH  BVD. 
Cut  off  the  top  crust  of  a  dozen  stale  rolls  or  biscuits,  and  scra{is 
eut  the  inside,  leaving  the  sides  and  bottoms  intact ;  set  them  with 
the  crusts  laid  beside  them  in  a  half-open  oven  to  dry  and  heat. 
Cut  four  dozen  oysters  in  halves ;  put  over  the  fire  in  their  liquor 
to  cook ;  when  they  boil  add  the  inside  of  the  rolls,  crumbed  fine, 
a  fall  tablespoonfnl  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  half  a  cupful  of 
hot  milk ;  cook  three  minutes  longer ;  butter  the  inside  of  the  dried 
rolls,  fill  with  the  oyster-mixture,  put  on  the  cnuts,  and  serve. 

PKISD  Pigs*  Fbst. 
BoQ  them  slowly  in  hot  water,  slightly  salted,  for  three  hours, 
or  until  tender.  Take  them  out  of  the  liquor  when  cold,  not  before, 
and  lay  in  enough  vinegar  and  water  (half  and  half),  to  cover  them 
for  half  a  day :  wipe ;  rub  with  French  mustard,  pepper,  and  if 
needed,  salt ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  thtn  in  crushed  cracker,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.    Drun  well  and  eat  hoL 

Dbvuad  Touatokb. 
Peel  ^ht  large,  &ir  tomatoes  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Put  into 
a  saucepan  four  tablespoonAils  of  vinegar,  two  of  be^t  salad  oil,  one 
tableepoonfiil  of  sugar,  a  quarter-tablespoonful  each,  of  pepper, 
made  mustard  and  salt.  Bring  quickly  to  a  boil,  and  pour  hot  over 
the  tomatoes.    Send  at  once  to  table. 

Caiv  au  Lait  Cakb. 
Three  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  two  cups  of  sugar ;  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  creamed  with  the  sugar ;  four  eggs ;  one  cup  of 
milk ;  rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  in  the  yolks,  the  milk, 
the  whipped  whites  and  flour  by  turns ;  -bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OP  FARE.  397 

FlI,UNG  FOR  CAKS. 

One  cup  of  milk  and  one  of  strong,  clear  coflFee,  strained ;  one  cup 
of  sugar ;  two  eggs :  two  tablespoonfuls  of  com-starch  wet  with  milk ; 
scald  the  inilk,  add  the  sugar  and  corn-starch,  and  when  these 
thicken  well,  the  beaten  eggs ;  cook  one  minute,  beat  in  the  coffee 
and  let  the  mixture  get  cold  before  spreading  it  between  the  cakes. 


DINNER. 

Turnip  Purde  {without  meai). 

Baked  Flounder  Cutlets.  Larded  Beef  *s  Tongue. 

Fried  Oyster-Plant         Celery  au  grattn. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Marie's  Pudding. 

Liquid  Sauce.  Coffee. 


Turnip  Purke. 

A  dozen  large,  white  turnips;  three  tablespoonfals  of  butter 
rolled  in  one  of  flour ;  a  cup  of  hot  milk ;  pepper ;  salt ;  a  stalk  of 
celery ;  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

Peel  and  slice  the  turnips ;  boil  with  the  celery  in  salted  water 
until  soft ;  rub  tlirough  a  colander  back  into  the  pot  with  the  water 
in  which  they  were  cooked ;  stir  in  seasoning  and  floured  butter ; 
iBimmer  ten  minutes,  add  the  hot  milk,  and  turn  into  the  tureen. 


Baked  Flounder  Cutuws. 

Lay  the  fish  flat  on  a  dish,  and  make  a  dec^  out  o^ar  tluB^  back- 
bone, which  extract  neatly ;  divide  the  flounden  uto  fisur  pieces 
each ;  have  ready  a  cupful  of  skimmed  and  strained  broth,  made  by 


398  AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE- 

boiling  a  pound  of  fish  in  a  pint  of  salted  water,  and  wlien  you  Iiav« 
strained  it,  stirring  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  lay 
the  cutlets  in  a  dripping  pan,  cover  with  this  liquor  and  bake,  cov- 
ered, half  an  hour ;  sprinkle  them  with  crumbs  and  brown  quickly ; 
remove  the  cutlets  to  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy,  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  boil  ..up  and  pour  into  a  boat. 


Larded  Beef's  Tongub. 

Boil  a  fresh,  fine  tongue  one  hour ;  lay  in  cold  water  at  once  to 
make  it  firm.  When  cold,  pare  off"  the  skin,  and  lard  it  diagonally 
from  side  to  side  with  strips  of  fat  salt  pork.  Lay  it,  thus  prepared, 
in  a  pan  with  half  an  onion,  four  or  five  cloves,  a  dozen  peppercorns, 
and  some  minced  parsley.  Dash  a  large  cupful  of  hot  water  over 
the  tongfue ;» cover  closely  and  cook  gently  two  hours,  turning  twice. 
Remove  the  cover,  rub  the  tongue  over  with  butter,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  brown.  Lay  on  a  dish,  add  a  Kttle*  hot  water  to  the 
gravy,  strain  it,  heat  again,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  capers,  boil  up  and  pour  into  a  boat. 


Fried  Oyster-Plant. 

,  Scrape  the  roots  and  cut  them  into  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half 
long,  dropping  them,  .as  you  do  so,  into  ice-water,  in  which  you  have 
mixed  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  This  will  prevent  discoloration. 
Now  boil  the  pieces  in  hot,  salted  water  for  nearly  an  hour.  Drain 
them  and  let  them  cool ;  dip  each  piece  in  a  batter  made  by  beating 
up  an  Qggj  putting  with  it  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  three  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  prepared  flour,  salted  and  peppered.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  a  few 
pieces  at  a  time,  drain  oflF  the  fat  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  lined  with 
tissue-paper,  fringed  at  the  ends.  This  vegetable  cooked  thus  tastes 
%ery  much  like  real  fried  oysters.     Txy  it. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  399 

Celery  au  Gratin. 

Scrape,  wash  and  cut  the  stalks  into  inch-lengths ;  stew  gently 
tintil  tender  in  salted  water ;  drain  this  off,  lay  the  celery  in  a  bake 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  rich  drawn  butter,  strew 
with  fine  crumbs,  and  brown  lightly. 


Marie's  Pudding* 

Two  cups  of  fine,  dry  crumbs ;  half  a  cup  of  currants,  washed 
and  dried ;  half  a  cup  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  a  quart  of 
milk ;  four  eggs ;  a  cup  of  sugar ;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  light  with  the  sugar, 
and  put  in  next  the  btttcr,  melted,  then  the  fruit  well  dredged  with 
flour;  boil  in  a  buttered  mold  two  hours  and  a  half;  dip  for  a 
moment  in  cold  water,  to  loosen  the  pudding,  and  turn  out ;  eat 
with  liquid  sauce. 


LiQTHD  Sauce. 

Pour  a  cupful  of  water  into  a  saucepan,  stir  in  a  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a  good  teaspoonfal  of 
arrowroot  wet  with  cold  water ;  season  with  nutmeg,  stir  for  two 
minutes  after  it  boils,  and  add  a  glass  of  sherry.  Send  to  table  hot 
in  a  sauce^ureen. 

No.  88. 
BRBAKFA8T. 

Imperial  Gxanum  Porriclge. 

Stewed  Eggs.  Risen  MufSns. 

Fried  Potatoes.  Otanges  and  Bananas. 

Tea.  Coffee. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 
ixRAMUM  Porridge. 
Une  cup  or   imperial  uranum;  three  cups  of  boiling  water; 
one  cnp  of  hot  milk ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Soak  the  granum  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  well  for  four 
or  five  hours,  or  all  night,  if  more  convenient ;  in  the  morning  put 
over  the  fire  in  the  boiling  water,  with  the  salt ;  cook  half  an  hour, 
stirring  often ;  add  the  warm  milk  and  stir  hard  and  long ;  cook 
ten  minutes  i  best  up  well  and  pour  out. 

Stswbd  Eggs. 
BoQ  eight  eggs  hard  and' leave  them  in  cold  water  untH  cold; 
take  off  the  shells,  slice  them,  and  lay  in  a  stone  china  or  block  tin 
dish;  pour  over  them  a  well-seasoned  gravy,  thickened  with 
browned  flour;  sift  fine  crumbs  over  all  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
They  are  very  savory  if  properly  seasoned. 

RiSBK  MuPFms. 

A  qnart  of  flour ;  two  tablespoonfiils  of  lard,  or  one  of  lard  and 
one  of  butter;  a  pint  of  milk  (a  generoos  one),  half  a  cup  of  yeast 
disaolved  in  half  a  cup  of  warm  water ;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Sift  the  salt  with  the  flour  and  rub  the  shortening  through  it, 
mix  the  egg  and  milk  together,  wet  up  the  flour,  add  the  yeast,  beat 
hard  and  set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  half-fill  muffin 
tills  vith  batter;  let  it  rise  for  half  an  houT)  and  bake. 

LUNCHEON. 

Olsten  soalloped  with  Mushrooms.  Pried  Apples. 

Mince  of  Potatoes  and  Com.  Btown  Bread  and  Buttec 

OnckexB.  Cheese.;.         Olives.  Jel^y  Roll. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  401 

* 

Oystbrs  Scalu)pbd  with  Mushrooms. 

A  quart  of  oysters;  half  a  can  of  muslirooms ;  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  pepper,  salt  and  cracker-crombs ;  a  cup  of 
rich  inilk ;  one  beaten  egg. 

Lay  a  stratum  of  oysters  in  a  buttered  bake-dish,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  with  chopped  mushrooms ;  cover  with 
crumbs  wet  with  milk  and  dotted  with  butter ;  proceed  in  this  order 
until  the  dish  is  full ;  the  topmost  layer  should  be  quite  moist  with 
milk,  in  which  an  egg  has  been  beaten,  and  seasoned  well  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Bake,  covered,  thirty  minutes,  then  brown. 
P&ss  crackers  and  lemon  with  it. 


Fried  Applbs. 

Peel  and  cut  into  eighths,  taking  out  the  seeds  and  core  care- 
fully from  each  piece ;  heat  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan ;  coat  the 
apples  lightly  with  flour,  and  fry  to  a  pale  brown ;  drain  off  the  £Eit 
from  each  slice,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pile  on  a  hot  dish ;  if  you 
like,  you  may  mix  a  little  cinnamon  with  the  sugar ;  use  only  tait 
apples  for  frying.  Send  around  slices  of  buttered  brown-bread  with 
them. 


Mmot  OF  POTATOSS  AND  CORK. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  drain  ofif  the  liqnor  from 
half  a  can  of  com,  boil  ten  minutes  in  salted  water,  and  let  the  com 
cool ;  mix  well  with  the  potatoes,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt 
Put  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  nice  dripping  in  a  frying-pan^ 
and  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  corn  and  potatoes  with  a  fork,  tossing 
about  until  they  are  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  in  a  hot,  coveted 
dish.  Cold  potatoes  and  stewed  com  ^^  left  oveTi*'  will  do  for  this 
dish. 


■I  BILLS  OF  FARE. 
Jeixt  Roll. 
One  and  aplialf  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar ;  four  eggs ;  halfcupofmilk;  one  tablespoonf ul  of  butter ; 

idly. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the  millc. 
then  wbipped  i^'hites  and  flour,  lightly  and  quickly.  Bake  in  a' 
large  buttered  pan ;  turn  out  on  a  clean,  damp  cloth,  spread  vith 
jelly,  and  roll  up  closely  upon  it 


DINNER. 

JJms.  Bean  Soup.  Curried  Chicken  Ke. 

Stewed  Cabbage.  .  Fried  Celeiy.  Potatbes  Boiled  Whole. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie.  Fruit  Coffee. 

Lima  Bean  Soup. 

Two  quarts  of  sonp  stock ;  one  quart  of  Lima  beans ;  if  dried^ 
soak  them  all  night,  putting  a  bit  of  soda  in  the  water ;  two  eggs ; 
half-cupful  of  com  meal  scalded  to  a  soft  mush ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  minced  parsley ;  pepper ;  salt ;  two  stalks  of  celery ;  half  an 
onion,  sliced  and  fried  to  a  nice  brown  in  the  butter  or  dripping. 

The  liquor  in  which  corned  beef  was  boiled  will  do  nicely  for 
the "  stock."  lu  that  case,  put  no  salt  in  the  soup.  Put  all  the 
ingredients  except  the  eggs  together  in  the  soup-kettle  and  cook 
slowly  until  the  beans  are  very  soft ;  rub  through  a  colander,  season 
to  taste,  return  to  the  soup  pot,  and  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs;  pour  into  the  tureen,  lay  on  the  surface  some  thin  slices  of 
lemon  from  which  the  peel  has-been  cut,  and  serve. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARIl  403 

Curried  Chicken  Pie. 

Joint  a  pair  of  tender  chickens  as  for  fricassee ;  roll  in  flour  and 
fiy  in  dripping  or  lard  until  they  begin  to  brown ;  jut  into  a  deep 
bake-disb  a  layer  of  tlie  fowl,  cover  with  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Have  ready  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice  in  which  have  been  worked  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  curry-powder  ; 
cover  the  chicken  with  some  of  this ;  put  in  more  fowl  and  pork, 
more  rice,  etc.  When  all  are  in,  pour  in  a  cupful  of  broth  made  by 
stewing  the  feet,  necks  and  pinions  of  the  chickens  in  a  pint  of 
water,  then  straining  and  seasoning  it.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  good 
crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle ;  bake,  covered,  forty  minutes,  and 
brown  nicely.    Wash  the  crust  with  beaten  white  of  egg. 


Stewed  Cabbage. 

^ 

Shred  a  cabbage  with  a  keen  knife ;  put  over  the  fire  in  plenty 
of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  with  a  bit  of  soda  in  it,  and  cook 
for  twenty  minutes ;  drain  off  the  water  and  put  in  just  enough 
fresh  and  boiling  to  cover  it.  Cook  ten  minutes  ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
pepper  and  salt.    Stew  ten  minutes  longer,  and  turn  out 


Fried  Celery. 

Cut  firm,  white  celery  into  pieces  two  inches  long ;  put  on  to 
boil  in  hot  salted  water,  and  cook  twenty  minutes ;  take  up  with  a 
split  spoon  and  drop  into  ice-water.  Leave  them  there  ten  minutes ; 
take  out,  lay  between  two  cloths  and  pat  dry ;  spread  on  a  dish  to 
cool ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  peppe!f ,  dip  each  piece  in  egg,  then  in 
fine  cracker  ciiimbs,  and  fry  in  clarified  dripping  or  salted  lard. 
Drain  well,  and  serve  hot. 


<o4  AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Svsvr  Potato  Pic 

Paiboil  firm  sweet  potatoes  and  let  them  get  cold  with  the  skins 
^m ;  pee!  ttiem,  then,  and  slice  crosswise.  Have  ready  a  pie-dish  lined 
whh  a  good  crost  fit  never  pays  to  make  any  other) ;  put  in  a  layer 
of  sliced  potatoes,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  and  drop  bits  of  butter 
here  and  there ;  allow  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy  and  five  cloves  to 
each  layer;  also,  a  dozen  or  so  drops  of  lemon  juice;  more  potatoes ; 
sugar,  butter,  brandy,  doves  and  lemon  juice  until  the  dish  is  folL 
Pot  in  two  tablespoonfhls  of  water  and  cover  all  with  pastry.  Cut 
a  slit  in  the  top,  and  bake.  Eat  cold  with  powdered  sugar  sprinkled 
over  the  top,  and  accompanied  with  good  old  cheese.  There  are 
not  many  more  delightful  pies  than  is  this  old  Virginia  dessert 
when  properly  made.  The  potatoes  should  be  dry  and  sweet,  the 
seasoning  judicious. 

I  have  heard  that  Irish  potato  pie  is  good  made  after  the  same 
receipt,  but  I  prefer  to  wait  for  something  more  than  hearsay 
evidence  before  recommending  it  It  would  certainly  require  much 
more  sujgar  than  sweet  'potatoes,  and  very  skillful  **  trimmings  '* 
altogether* 


Mo.  20. 

BRBAKPA8T. 

Rye  Porridge.  Eadneys  and  E[am 

IHannel  Cakes.  Toast  Boiled 

Tea.  Ftruit 


Rys  Porridcs. 

Que  cup  of  rye  meal ;  three  large  cups  of  boiling  wat«r,  ai|d  oclq 
of  hot  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARB.^'  405 

When  tlie  salted  water  reaches  the  bell,  stir  in  the  meal ;  book 
tme  hour  after  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  begins  to  biibhle  again, 
add  the  hot  milk,  and  simmer  five  minutes  before  turning  oat. 


KiDNKTS  AND  HaM. 

Split  each  kidney  lengthwise  and  cleanse  from  fat  and  strings. 
Have  as  many  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  fat  and  lean  together,  aa 
you  have  pieces  of  kidney,  cutting  them  into  pieces  of  .the  same 
breadth  and  length.  String  half  kidneys  and  bits  of  ham  alter^ 
nately  on. slender  skewers,  a  piece  of  ham  at  each  end.  When  the 
skewers  are  full,  broil  over  a  clear  fire  for  eight  minutes,  turning 
often ;  lay  the  skewers  in  a  row  on  a  hot  dish,  pepper,  salt,  and  baste 
with  butter  before  sending  to  table. 


Flannel  Cakes  (without  eggs).   ■ 
One  quart  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  commeal,  and  nearly  thi^ee  of 
flour ;  half  cake  of  yeast  stirred  in  a  half-cup  of  warm  water ;  one 
large  cup  of  boiHug   water;   one   teaspoouful    of  salt;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  molasses  ;  bit  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea  in  the  milk. 

Scald  the  meal  in  the  boiling  water,  stir  in  the  milk,  and  strain 
through  a  colander,  add  flour  and  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  until  mbm- 
ing ;  beat  in  salt  and  molasses,  and,  when  the  batter  is  smooth  and 
light,  bake  on  a  griddle.    They  are  very  nice. 

LUNCHEON.    , 

Beef  Scallop.  Cheese-Fingers. 

Fried  Potatoes.  Brown  Bread  and  Butter. 

Doughuuts.  Tea. 


rUMN  BILLS-  OF  FARE. 
Beef  Scallop. 

-Two  cups  of  cold,  underdone  roast  beef ;  one  cup  of  raw  pota- 
toes, cut  into  dice ;  two  beaten  eggs ;  mustard ;  pepper ;  salt ;  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  onion ,;  one  cupful  of  gravy  or  st^ick. 
Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes,  lay  them  in.  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour,  drain,  cover  them  with  boiling,  salted  water  and  stew  gently 
ten  minutes ;  drain  off  the  water,  add  the  gravy  and  the  beef 
chopped  fine,  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  turn  into  a  bowl,  beat  in 
the  eggs;  the  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  put  into  a  greased 
bake-dish,  strew  crumbs  on  top,  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour,  tlien 
brown. 

Cheese  Fingers. 
This  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  scraps  of  pastry  left  over  from 
baking  pies.  Cut  into  strips  as  long  as  your  middle  finger,  and 
twice  as  wide ;  strew  with  dry,  grated  cheese,  a  little  salt,  and  just 
a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  double  them  lengthwise ;  pinch  the  edges 
together  along  their  length,  sprinkle  more  cheese  upon  them  and 
bake  quickly ;  pile  within  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  Clips  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  sugar;  one  quart  of  flour ;  three 
eggs;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  one-half  of  a  yeast  ca?£e ;  one  full  table- 
'Spoonful  of  butter;  half  teaspoonful  of  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace; 
bit  of  soda  in  the  milk. 

Heat  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  sugar  and  btitter ;  while  it  is  cool- 
ifflg,  sift  the  salt  twice  in  the  flour  and  dissolve  the  yeast-<;ake  in  a 
Kttle  warm  water.  Mix  all  while  the  milk  is  blood-warm,  and  let 
the  dough  rise  till  morning.    Then  work  in  the  whipped  eggs ; 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  407 

knead  the  soft  dougli  for  one  minute,  and  set  for  tlie  second  rising; 
it  should  be  very  light  before  you  roll  it  out  into  a  sheet  and  cut  it 
into  shapes ;  after  cutting  them,  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  and 
fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard ;  in  frying  doughnuts,  always  put  them 
into  the  kettle  with  the  side  downward  that  was  uppermost  on  the 
dish  from  which  you  take  them ;  they  rise  better  thus ;  fish  out 
when  done  with  a  split  spoon,  and  put  in  a  hot  colauder,  sifting 
powdered  sugar  over  them  while  warm,  \ 


DINNER. 

Turnip  Soap.  Deviled  Oysters, 

Braised  Beef.  Spinacli  on  Toast.  Fried  Parsnips. 

Mashed  Potatoes.     _  Cup  Plum  Pudding. 

Fruit  Coffee. 


TuitNiP  Sotjp  (without  meat). 

Eight  or  ten  large  white  turnips ;  half  an  onion,  sliced  and  fried 
to  a  light  brown ;  one  stalk  of  celery ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rolled  in 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  two  quarts  of  water ;  bit  of  soda  in 
milk. 

Peel,  slice,  and  lay  the  turnips  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  drain 

.and  pn^  in  the  soup  kettle  with  the  fried  onion,  celery  and  parsley  ; 

add  th^  cold  water,  and  cook  all  tender;  rub  the  soup  through  a 

colander,  season,  and  return  to  the  fire ;  stir  in  the  buttered  flour, 

simmer  five  minuteS|  add  the  milk  and  pour  ouL 


DsviLED  Oystkrs. 

Wipe  large, "  frying  size  "  oysters  dry,  and  lay  in  a  mixture  macc 
by  allowing  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a 


/ 

/ 


ILLS  OF  FARB, 

le.    Turn  the  oysters  over  and  o>€a 
d  bfoil  on  a  wire  broiler  over  a  clear 
ire    Serve  hot 

Braised  Boep. 
Pnt  a  brisket  of  beef  into  a  broad-bottomed  pot  and  set  it  ovet 
the  fire.  At '  the  end  of  ten  minutes  turn  it,  and  again  in  ten 
minutes  more.  Repeat  this  once  more  for  each  side ;  then  pour  in 
two  cups  of  boiling  water,  fit  on  a  close  top  and  cook  slowly  one 
hour  before  turning  the  meat.  After  this,  cook  an  hour  longer  if 
the  meat  weighs  seven  or  eight  pounds — ^keeping  the  top  on.  Set 
the  beef  in  the  oven,  sift  flour  over  it,  baste  freely  with  the  gravy, 
and  brown  for  five  or  six  minutes  before  dishing.  Skim  and  season 
the  gravy,  thicken  witfi  browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  boat. 

Spinach  on  Toast. 
Pick  the  leaves  over  carefully,  rejecting  the  stems,  wash  and 
put  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  cup  of  water  to  a  half-peck  of  leaves. 
Cover,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  drain  and  chop  it  as  fine  as 
possible ;  put  back  over  the  fire,  and  beat  in  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  the 
juice  of  half-a-lemon.  Whip  smooth  and  press  hard  into  heated 
egg  or  custard  cups  to  mold  it.  Have  ready  crustless  rounds  of 
toast,  buttered  well,  on  a  keated  platter.  Turn  out  a  mold  of  spin- 
ach on  each,  and  put  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg  on  the  top  of  the  mold. 


Fried  Parsnips. 
Scrape,  and  leave  in  cold  water  for  au  hour,  then  cook  half  aa 
in  hot,  salted  water,  wipe,  slice  lengthwise,  dtp  in  melted' 
r,  then  in  flour  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fiy  in  boil- 
ripping.     Drain  free  of  fat^  and  dish. 


AUTUMN  BUJ^S  OP  FARB.  409 

Cup  Plum  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  fine,  dry  crumbs ;  one  cup  of  floor ;  one  cup  of 
milk ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  half  cup  of  molasses ;  one  cup  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped,  and  the  same  of  currants ;  half  cup  of  sliced 
citron;  half  cup  of  powdered  suet;  four  eggs;  one  teaspoonful 
mixed  cinnamon  and  allspice ;  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  ^fttd 
twice  with  the  flour. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  molasses,  milk,  suet,  crumbs,  sugar, 
spice,  fruit  (dredged  with  flour),  mix  well;  turn  into  a  buttered 
mold  and  boil  five  hours.    Eat  with  both  hard  and  liquid  sauce* 


No.  30. 
BREAKFAST* 

Oatmeal  Porridge.  Deviled  Rabbit 

Com  Bread.  Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Graham  Bread.  White  Bread  sliced  thin* 

Fruit  Tea.                 Coffee. 


Oatmbal  Porridge* 

Half  a  pint  of  oatmeal — ^full  measure ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water, 
salted  slightly. 

If  the  meal  is  not  steam-cooked,  soak  all  night  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  it.  In  the  morning  stir  into  the  boiling  water,  beat 
ing  up  well  for  a  whole  minute.  Cook  in  a  farina  kettle.  Do  not 
leave  the  spoon  in  or  stir  it  every  few  minutes,  as  the  manner  of 
some  is.  Four  good  stirs  are  sufficient,  but  they  must  be  thorough. 
Keep  covered,  and  boil  steadily  for  an  hour,  and  as  much  longer  as 
you  like.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish  and  eat  with  cream,  and,  if  desired| 
sugar. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 
usvnjBD  Rabbit. 

Skin  and  dress  the  rabbit,  taking  especial  care  to  clean  it  well. 
This  part  of  the  business  is  often  done  in  a  disgracefully  slovenly 
way.  Lay  it  on  the  side  in  a  dripping  pan,  pour  a  cupful  of .  boiling 
water  over  it,  cover  with  another  pan  and  bake,  basting  often 
with  the  hot  water  in  the  lower  pan  until  tender.  Uncover  then, 
and  lay  on  a  hot  dish  to  keep  warm  while  you  make  the  sauce. 
Mix  in  a  cup  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  rolled  in  one  of  browned  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard and  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne.  Salt  to  taste — about  half  a  tea- 
spoonful.  Strain  the  gravy  left  in  the  baking  pan  into  a 
.  saucepan,  add  the  vinegar,  etc.,  and  stir  to  a  sharp  boil.  Pour  over 
the  rabbit  gradually,  turning  and  lifting  it  that  the  sauce  may  soak 
in  well,  cover,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  very  hot  Five  minutes 
sliould  be  enough  if  the  oven  is  good.  Send  to  table  in  the  chaflng- 
dish  in  which  it  was    kept  hot. 


Corn  Bread. 

One  cup  of  white  commeal,  and  the  same  of  flour ;  one  cup  of 
fresh  milk ;  one-half  cup  of  sugar ;  half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  meal  and 
flour ;  two  eggs  beaten  light ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  eggs ;  when 
these  are  beaten  in,  add  the  milk,  the  salt,  and  lastly  the  flour,  which 
should  have  been  sifted  twice  with  the  meal,  soda  and  cream  of  tar 
tar.  Beat  hard  one  minute,  turn  into  a  shallow  baking  pan,  well 
greased,  and  set  at  once  in  a  steady  oven..  When  done  {test  with  a 
straw  run  into  the  thickest  part)  cut  into  squares  and  serve. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OP  PARE.  4U 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Slice  cold,  boiled  potatoes.  Have  ready  in  a  ficying-pan  a  great 
spoonful  of  nice  dripping  or  of  butter.  Into  tbis,  wben  bot,  put  a 
tablespoonful  of  finely  minced  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  ligbtly,  and 
fry  to  a  ligbt  brown.  Tben  add  potatoes,  and  stir  gently  witb  a 
fork,  not  to  break  them,  until  very  bot.  Lastly,  put  in  a  full  tea* 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  toss  together  witb  a  fork  and  senra 
very  bot. 

LUNCHEON. 

Veal  and  Ham  Croquettes.        Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Apple  Sauce.  Sponge  Cake.  Bread  and  Butten 

Crackers  and  Cbeese.  Tea. 


Veal  and  Ham  Croquettes. 

Mix  the  ™nnanu  of  cold  roast  or  fried  veal,  chopped.  «th 

one-tbird  as  mucb  cold  boiled  bam,  also  minced.  Leave  out  bits  of 
skin  and  gristle.  Season  witb  pepper  and  a  pincb  of  nutmeg.  Tbe 
bam  supplies  salt.  Work  in  one-fourtb  as  mucb  bread  crumbs  as 
tbere  is  meat ;  wet  sligbtly  witb  gravy  or  drawn  butter ;  add  a  beaten 
egg ;  make  into  rolls  tbe  lengtb  of  your  middle  finger  and  a  tbird 
as  tbick ;  roll  in  beaten  cggj  tben  in  cracker  dust,  and  set  in  a  very 
cold  place  for  balf  an  bour.  It  is  even  better  to  make  tbe  croquettes 
several  bours  before  cooking  tbem,  not  rolling  tbem  in  egg  and 
cracker  until  you  are  quite  ready  to  fry  tbem.  Have  dripping 
enougb  in  frying  pan  to  cover  tbem  entirely.  Tbis  is  wbat  is  called 
"frying  in  deep  fat."  Wben  it  is  bissing  bot,  put  in  a  few  at  a 
time   (first  testing  tbe  beat  with  one)  and  fry  to  a  ligbt  browat 


IILLS  OF  FARE. 

Tom  carefully  as  they  cook,  to  keep  them  round.  As  each  is  dona 
take  up  with  a  split  spoon  and  lay  in  a  hot  colander  to  drain  oflF  the 
ftt.   I^y  neatly  on  a  heated  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Bakbd  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash,  wipe,  and  lay  in  a  baWng- 
pan.    Set  in  a  good  oven  and  bake  nntil  the  largest  "  gires  "  when 
pinched.    Turn  several  times  while  baking,  that  the  lower  sides 
(Day  not  bum.    Wrap  in  a  napkin  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Apple  Sauce. 
Pan  and  slice  jnicyi  tart  apples  *,  put  into  a'  tinned  or  porcelain- 
Uned  vessel,  pour  in  half  a  cup  of  water  to  prevent  scorching,  and 
cook*  gently  until  tender  and  broken  to  pieces.  Turn  out  into  a 
bowl,  sweeten  abundantly,  and  rub  through  a  dean  colander.  Set 
away  to  cooL 

Sponge  Cake. 

Six  eggs ;  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  powdered  sugar ;  half  the 
weight  of  the  eggs  in  prepared  flour ;  one  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 

£(eat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  light  When  the 
yolks  are  smooth,  beat  in  the  sugar,  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  in 
which  the  grated  peel  has  stood  fifteen  minutes  or  more,  then  been 
strained  out  through  a  cloth.  Now  stir  in  the  whites,  and,  last  of 
all,  the  prepared  flour  as  quickly  and  lightly  as  will  suffice  to  mix 
all  into  a  light  batter.  Butter  a  mold  and  bake  it,  covering  with 
paper  as  soon  as  it  has  puffed  up  to  the  desired  height  and  is  crusted 
over.  Test  with  a  straw  to  see  if  it  is  done,  and  bake  steadily 
zather  than  &st.  There  is  no  better  receipt  than  this  simple  one 
£br  iipcage  cake    A  little  practice  will  soon  make  you  an  adept  ia 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARB.  413 

DINNER. 

'    Oear  Soup.  Creamed  Lobster, 

Stewed  Beefsteak.  Cauliflower.  Potatoes  in  Casas. 

Horse  Radish.        Burnt  Custard.        I^ght  Cakes. 
Fruit  Coffee. 

Clear  Soup. 
Ask  your  butcher  to  send  you  six  pounds  of  beef-shin  and  a 
knuckle  of  veal  weighing  half  as  much,  and  to  crack  the  bones  and 
joints  faithfully.    Put  these  over  the  fire  with  eight  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  cover  and  set  at  the  back  of  the  range  until  the  water  is  hot. 
■  Bring  forward  and  increase  the  heat.   When  the  scum  rises,  take  it 
off  and  keep  the  soup  at  a  slow  bubble  for  three  hours.    Throw  in . 
three  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  and  half  the  number  of  whole 
cloves  and  boil — always  slowly — for  three  hours  more.    Do  this  the 
day  before  the  soup  is  to  be  eaten.  Turn  out  the  contents  of  the  pot 
into  a  crock  or  bowl,  and  let  all  stand  together  until  next  day 
when  you  have  salted  to  taste.    The  fat  will  rise  to  the  top  over 
night  in  a  solid  cake.    Remove  every  particle  of  it  and  set  by  for 
dripping.     Return  bones  and  liquor  to  the  fire,  and  when  hot,  strain 
through  a  colander  into  a  crock.    This  is  *'  soup  stock,"  and  if  kept 
in  a  cool  place,  will  remain  good  for  days  in  winter.    For  the  clear 
soup  of  to-day,  dip  out  a  quart,  heat  slowly  to  a  boU,  droppit 
a  quarter-onion  as  it  heats,  and  when  it  simmers,  the  white  and ; 
of  an  ^%^y  stirred  in  until  it  coagulates.    Stir  again  and  again, 
it  may  not  "  catch  "  on  the  bottom,  and  boil  steadily — not  it 
for  five  minutes.    Strain  without  squeezing,  through  a  thick  ( 
into  a  clean  pot,  boil  up  again,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Worce 
shire  sauce  and. a  teaspoonful  of  celery  extract,  and  serve. 
"  stock  "  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for  many  varieties  of  soaps. 


414  AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Creamed  Lobster. 

Meat  of  one  lobster,  or  a  can  of  preserved  lobster  or  crab ;  one 
cnp  of  creamy  milk  (all-cream  is  best) ;  one  half-cup  of  cracker- 
crumbs  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  pepper,  cay- 
enne and  salt ;  Half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs. 

Strain  off  the  lobster-liquor,  if  you  use  the  canned  fish ;  cut 

the  meat  into  small  dice  with  a  sharp  knife,  season,  and  set  aside 

while  you  heat  the  milk,  or  cream  in  a  farina  kettle,  dropping  in  a 

tiny  bit  of  soda.    When  it  is  hot,  stir  in  the  butter  cut  up  in  a  table- 
• 

spoonful  of  flour  and,  as  this  begins  to  thicken,  the  lobster.  Have 
ready  buttered  silver,  or  china,  or  earthen  scallop-shells,  fill  with 
the  mixture,  strew  fine,  dry  crumbs  on  top,  and  brown  in  a  quick 
oven.    Send  around  sliced  lemon  with  the  shells,  and  crackers. 


Stewed  Beefsteak. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  then  strain  it  through 
toarse  musKn  into  a  dripping-pan.  Lay  the  steak  in  this,  turning 
It  over  twice  to  wet  both  sides.  If  there  is  not  enough  juice  to  cover 
It  well,  add  cold  water.  Invert  a  pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam, 
and  set  in  a  slow  oven. .  Cook-  tender,  turning  the  steak  over  twice 
'an  hour,  and,  should  the  liquor  leave  it  uncovered,  pour  in  a  little 
hot  water.  Stew  slowly  for  at  least  two  hours-and-a-half.  Transfer 
the  meat  to  a  hot  platter,  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  cover  closely,  and 
set  over  hot  water.  Skim  the  gravy  well.  Put  the  pan  containing 
it  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  browned  flour,  and  boil  up, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Then,  put  in  the  tomatoes  from  which  the 
juice  was  strained,  simmer  three  minutes  or  until  they  are  scalding 
hot '   Take  up  the  tomatoes  and  lay  around  the  steak ;  strain  th€ 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  4x5 

gravy  tluough  a  soup  sieve  into  a  bowl ;  pour  Tialf  over  the  steaV^ 
the  rest  into  a  boat.    This  is  a  eood  way  of  cookinfif  a  toufirb  steak 


Cauliflower. 

Cut  away  the  leaves  and  the  stalk  close  to  the  body  of  the  cauli- 
flower ;  lay  in  cold  water  half  an'  hour,  tie  in  coarse  mosquito 
netting  and  boil  in  hot,  salted  water,  changing  this  for  water  from 
the  kettle  at  the  end  of  fifteen  minutes.  Salt  this  also  and  slightly. 
In  twenty  minutes  more,  if  the  cauliflower  be  not  large  and  is  fresh, 
take  it  from  the  fire,  remove  the  netting,  lay  in  a  dish  and  pour  a 
good  drawn  butter  over  it  Some  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  the 
drawn  butten 

Potatoes  in  Cases. 

Bake  fine^  large  potatoes  until  soft.  Cut  a  cap  £rom  the  top 
of  each,  scoop  out  the  contents  without  breaking  the  skin ;  beat  the 
potato  light  with  butter  and  milk,  salting  to  your  liking,  return  to 
the  skins,  filling  each  so  full  that  the  creamed  potato  protrudes 
from  the  top ;  set  in  a  quick  oven  to  brown  lightly,  and  arrange, 
open  ends  up,  upon  a  flat  dish« 

Horse  Radish. 

Orate  and  keep  in  vinegar  as  a  condiment  for  bee£ 


Burnt  Custard. 

Five  eggs ;  pne  quart  of  milk,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
stirred  in;  fi ve ^^7^^ tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vanilla  extract.  ; 

Beat  the  eggs  light  with  the  sugar ;  heat  the  milk  to  scalding  in 
a  farina  kettle,  pour  on  the  eggs,  flavor  and  turn  into  a  biittered 


^ 


/ 


XLS  OF  FARE. 

bowl  or  mold;  set  tiils  In  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  this  in  the 
oven.  Nov  cover  the  top  of  the  mold  with  a  plate  or  a  tin  pan 
or  a  pot  lid,  and  bate  nntil  well-set,  even  in  the  middle.  Take  from 
the  oren,  dip  the  mold  in  cold  water,  taking  care  not  to  let  any  get 
into  the  custard ;  run  a  knife  around  the  edge  to  loosen  the  pudding, 
and  tnm  out  cautiously  upon  a  hot  plate.  Have  ready  to  pour  over  it 
half  a  cup  of  caramel  made  by  putting  half  a  cup  of  sugar  over  a  fire 
in  a  tin  cnp,  and  when  it  is  all  one  brown  bubble,  adding  a  table- 
spoottfbl  of  boiling  water,  and  stirring  it  on  the  range  until  it  boils 
again.    Strain  it  over  the  cnstard. 

Light  Cakbs.  i 

Pretty  foncy  calces  may  be  contrived  by  making  a  good  cap 
cake,  baking  it  in  square  pans,  and  when  cool,  cutting  it  into 
oUong  or  square  pieces,  and  icing  these  on  top  and  sides. 

No.  81 
BREAKFAST. 

Hominy.  Breaded  Scallops. 

Potato  Drop-Cakes.  Peach  Shortcake. 

Cold  Bread,  white  and  brown. 

Fruit  Tea.  Coffee. 


BrBADED  SCAIXOPS. 

Lay  the  fish  on  a  clean  cloth,  and  cover  with  another,  presstug 
g«aitly  on  the  upper  to  rid  them  of  moisture.  Dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  fine  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Take 
Qp  iil  ■*  split  spoon,  shake  off  the  fat,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with 
a  bonwr  of  watercresses. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OP  FARE.  417 

Potato  Drop  Cakes. 

Two  cupfuls  of  maslied  potatoes,  add  two  cupftils  of  warm  snitki 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  beaten  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of 
prepared  flour  and  lialf  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  whole  hard 
and  drop  iu  great  spooufuls  on  a  greased  griddle.  Serve  very  hot 
as  soon  as  they  are  baked. 

Peach  Shortcake. 

One  quart  of  prepared  flour ;  two  cups  of  milk,  blood  warm ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  one  of  butter ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
one  can  pf  peaches. 

Rub  or  chop  the  shortening  into  the  salted  flour,  wet  with  the 
milk,  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Line  a  broad,  shallow 
baking  pan  with  half  of  this ;  drain  the  liquor  from  the  peaches,  lay 
them  out  on  a  cloth  to  get  rid  of  all  the  juice  that  will  come  away ; 
put  them  in  a  thick  layer  on  the  paste  in  the  pan,  strew  with  sugar, 
cover  with  the  reserved  crust,  and  bake  in  a  good,  not  too  hot  oven. 
When  done,  cut  in  squares  and  pile  on  a  plate.  Split  and  eat  with 
butfc^r  and  sugar. 

LUNCHEON. 

Scotch  Herrings.  Hashed  Potatoes. 

Cold  Beefs  Heart.         Crackers.         Cheese.        Olives. 

Sponge,  or  Plain  Cake  Fritters.         Cocoa-theta. 


Scotch  Herrings. 

Lay  them  on  a  pie  plate,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
very  hot  Butter  each  lightly,  pepper,  and  squeeze  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  on  it  Serve  on  a  heated  platter,  and  pass  toasted  and 
buttered  crackers  with  them. 


UMN  BILLS  OF,  FARK 

Hashed  Potatoes. 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  pepper  and  salt  lightly,  and 
add  a  cupful  of  iriilk  for  each  pint  of  chopped  potatoes.  Turn  into 
a  farina-kettle,  and  cook  until  scalding  hot  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter  rolled  in  half  as  much  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced 
parsley.    Cook  until  the  milk  thickens,  and  dish. 

Cold  Beef's  Heart. 
.Wash  the  heart  well  and  soak  for  half  an  hour  in  cold,  salted 
water.  Wipe  and  stuff  the  orifices  well  with  a  forcemeat  of  bread- 
crumbs, fat  salt  pork,  minced  fine,  and  a  little  onion,  chopped  and 
seasoned  with  pepper.  Sew  up  in  coarse  muslin  fitted  to  the  shape 
of  the  heart,  put  on  to  boil  in  cold,  salted  water,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar  to  the  quart.  Boil  slowly  two  hours,  turning  several 
times.  Put  under  a  heavy  weight  when  done,  and  leave  it  for  twelve 
hours.  Take  off  thecloth  then,  and  your  cold  entrde  is  read}'.  Slice 
crosswise. 

Sponge  Cake  Fritters. 
Cat  inch-thick  slices  of  stale  sponge  or  very  plain  cake,  and  fry 
quickly  in  sweet  lard.  As  each  slice  browns,  take  it  up  and  dip  for 
a  hasty  second  in  boiling  milk,  spread  at  once  with  sauce  made  by 
rubbing  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  a  cream,  with  nearly  a  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Pile  the  slices  on  a 
hot  plate  and  keep  hot  in  the  oven  until  served. 

DINNER. 

ChlfScen  and  S^o  Broth.  Mutton  oi^  MacanmL 

Spinach.        Dundee  Ha^s.        Rice  Craam. 

Fruit  Co£Bse. 


AXJTUMN  BILLS  OP  FAIUt  4i« 

CmcKBN  A79D  Sago  Broth. 

Three  pints  of  liquor  in  which  a  chicken  has  been  boiled ;  halT 
cupful  of  German  sago ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  three  eggs ;  two  table* 
spoonfuls  of  minced  parsley ;  pepper  and  salt. 

Soak  the  sago  four  hours  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  then  add 
it  to  the  liquor,  which  should  have  been  strained  and  skimmed,  and 
put  over  the  fire  in  a  farina  kettle.  Heat  to  boiling,  by  which  time 
the  sago  should  be  dissolved.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  vessel 
and  pour,  scalding  hot,  on  the  heated  yolks ;  add  (with  a  pinch  of 
soda)  to  the  sago  broth ;  season,  stir  for  five  minutes ;  beat  in  the 
frothed  whites  and  parsleyi  and  turn  out 


Mutton  and  Macaroni 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  wide  kettle  with  chopped  salt  pork.  Lay 
on  this  a  breast  or  shoulder  of  mutton — not  too  fat.  Peel  a  lemon, 
slice  thin  and  lay  over  the  meat,  then,  more  sliced  pork,  a  little 
chopped  onion  and  parsley,  with  a  sprig  of  mint,  if  you  can  get  it. 
Pour  over  all  two  cups  of  boiling  water.  Cover  vniix  a  close  lid, 
and  cook  gently  for  two  hours,  turning  the  meat  once.  Have  ready 
half  a  pound  of  macaroni  broken  into  inch-long  pieces  which  has 
been  cooked  twenty  minutes  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Drain  it,  toss 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  through  it  with  a  fork,  pepper  and  salt  it, 
and  make  iuto  a  flat  mound  on  a  platter.  Strain  the  liquor  from 
the  mutton,  add  to  it  half  a  cup  of  stewed  and  strained  tomato, 
thicken  with  browned  flour  and  boil  up  sharply,  settle  the  meat  on 
the  macaroni,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  both. 


Spinach. 


Wash  and  pick  off  the  leaves ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  witlii 
out  water  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.     Cook  slowly  for 


\ 

\ 


4-v,  ^u.umx^   i^ii^LS  OF  FARE. 

fifteen  minutes,  then  boil  for  twenty  more.  Turn  into  a  colander, 
drain,  and  rub  tbrough  the  holes  into  a  bowl.  Return  to  the  sauce- 
pan and  outer  vessel  of  boiling  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  three 
tablespoonfuis  of  milk.  Heat  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Heap  on 
buttfted  rounds  of  toast,  with  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg  on  each.    '' 

Dundee  Haggis.  ' 

One  quart  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  oatmeal,  soaked  over  night  ia 
cold  water ;  one  heaping  cupful  of  cold  veal,  mutton  or  poultry ; 
one  cup  of  broth  from  your  stewed  mutton ;  half  a  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs ;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  three  beaten  eggs ; 
pepper  and  salt 

Stir  the  skimmed  and  strained  gravy  into  soaked  oatmeal,  season, 
and  cook  in  a  farina-kettle  for  an  hour  before  adding  the  milk  in 
which  the  bread-crumbs  must  have  been  soaked ;  cook  half  an  hour, 
stirring  often,  and  turn  the  mixture  into  a  bowl  to  get  perfectly 
cold ;  then  beat  in  the  butter,  melted,  the  chopped  meat,  the  beaten 
eggs,  and  mix  thoroughly ;  pour  into  a  buttered  mold,  and  boil  or 
steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  If  you  have  the  giblets  of  poultiy, 
or  part  of  a  calTs  or  lamb*s  liver,  you  may  substitute  these  for  the 
niincsd  meat    Turn  out  and  eat  hot 

Rice  Crbau. 

One  scant  cup  of  rice ;  one  heaping  cap  of  sugar ;  one  quart  of 
milk ;  one^hird  package  of  gelatine ;  one  pint  of  whipped  cream ; 
teaspogpftil  of  bitter  almond  or  vanilla  essence. 

6^  the  rice  tender,  drain  off  the  water  and  stir  the  rice  into 
the  scalding  milk  with  the  sugar ;  bring  to  a  boil,  and  put  in  the 
gelatine  soaked  soft  iu  «nough  cold  water  to  cover  il\     When  this 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  411 

has  ^ssolved)  strain  the  mixture  through  a  fine  colander^  and  beat 
for  Oiree  minutes  with  the  "  Dover."  Flavor,  and  set  aside  imtii 
cold,  when  whip  in  the  stiffened  cream.  Let  it  form  in  a  wet  tneJd; 
keep  it  on  ice  until  wanted.    It  is  very  good. 


No.  32. 
BREAKFAST. 

Oranges. 

Pbrk  Chops,  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes.  .       Maple  Syrupi 

Toast.  Brown  Bread. 

Meringued  Cafe  au  UdU 

Tea. 


Orangbs. 

As  a  preparatory  course  to  the  heavier  business  of  breakfast^ 
ripe,  fresh  oranges  are  held  in  high  esteem.  They  are  served  wholej 
and  eaten  as  individual  taste  dictates,  either  pared,  then  divided 
into  lobes,  which  are  eaten  with  or  without  sugar,  or  cut  in  half^ 
without  paring,  and  scooped  from  the  shells  with  a  spoon.  Finger 
bowls  and  doilies  are  set  on  with  them,  and  t:^^xy  vestige  of  this 
course  is  removed  before  the  next  is  brought  in. 


Pork  Chops  with  Tomato  Saucb. 

Trim  neatly,  and  beat  them  fiat  with  a  potato  beetle.  Heat  a 
iablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  drop  into  it  when  it 
hisses,  half  a  dozen  slices  of  onion.    Lay  in  the  chops  and  fiy 

alowly  for  five  minutes.    Then  innvase  th«  \^\  «otU  tiliey  ^t% 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

nicely  brqymed.  '  Take  them  up  and  lay  in  a  hot-water  dish ;  strain 
the  onion  out  of  the  gravy.  Return  the  latter  to  the  frying-pan, 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
cut  up  in  two  of  browned  flour,  pepper,  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  cup  of  strained  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes. 
Boil  up  sharply,  and  pour  over  the  chops,  ^ 


Crumb  Griddle  Cakbs. 

One  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  the  same  of  hot  water ;  two  heaping 
cups  of  fine,  dry  crumbs ;  half  a  cupful  of  prepared  flour ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  and  one  of  melted  butter ;  two  eggs ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  and  water,  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  they  are  smoking  hot,  when  set  them  aside  to  cool.  They 
should  be  just  lukewarm  when  you  beat  in  the  butter,  molasses 
and  salt,  the  eggs  whipped  light,  finally  the  flour.  Try  a  spoonful 
on  a  hot  griddle,  £md  should  it  stick,  add  a  little  more  flour.  But 
do  not  get  them  stiff.  They  should  be  so  tender  as  almost  to  melt 
in  the  mouth* 


» \ 


Meringuei}  Cafe  au  lait. 

Strain  a  quart  of  strong,  clear  coffee  through  a  cloth  into  the 
urn ;  add  three  cups  of  boiling  milk,  also  strained  to  get  rid  of  the 
"  skin."  Have  ready  in  a  pitcher  or  bowl  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
whipped  to  a  meringfue,  then  beaten  into  a  heaping  cu  j)ful  of  whipped 
tream  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Pour  the  coffee  into  hot  cups 
and  lay  a  dessertspoonful  of  the  meringued  cream  on  the  surface  of 
each  in  serving  it. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

LUNCHEON. 

Smoked  Salmon  auJeannoL 

Potato  Cakes  au  gratin.  Graham  Bread. 

Butter.  Hcklea. 

Thickened  Milk. 


Smokbd  Sauion  au  Jeamua, 

Cut  II  pound  of  smoked  salmon  into  strips  as  long  as  your  mid< 
die  finger  and  twice  as  wide.  Soak  them  in  cold  water  for  two  hours, 
then  put  over  the  fire  iu  a  saucepan.  Cover  with  more  cold  water, 
and  bring  to  a  gentle  boil.  Have  ready  in  another  saucepan  a  cup- 
ful of  beef  or  veal  broth,  in  which  half  an  onion  has  been  boiled 
tender,  then  strained  out.  Add  to  the  broth  while  hot,  a  table* 
spoonful  of  catsup,  walnut,  tomato  or  mushroom,  or  "  Chili  sauce," 
another  of  vinegar,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne.  Drain  the  water  irom  the  salmon,  wipe  eachpiece  and 
butter  it  well,  laying  it  on  a  hot  dish  as  you  do  so.  When  all  are 
buttered,  put  them  carefully  juto  the  hot  gravy,  cover,  and  set  the 
saucepan  where  it  will  simmer,  but  not  boil,  for  ten  minutes.  Lay 
the  salmon  Ju  rows  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  with  the  gravy,  and  serve.  . 
Send  around  heated  crackers  and  butter  with  it. 


'  Potato  Cakes  a«^fratf«. 

'  Rub  cold  mashed  potatoes  to  a  paste  with  a  little  milk  { 
yolk  of  an  t^.  Flour  your  hands  and  make  into  small  fla 
Let  thjcse  get  cold  and  stiff,  and  just  before  cooking  sift  dry 
all  over  them.    Set  in  a  quick  oven  to  brown  lightly.    Eat 


MN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

TmcxBMSD  Max. 

milk;  font tablespoonfiils of prqmed fetwr; 

J :er;  one  teaspoonftil  of  salt 

Sift  the  salt  into  the  flour,  wet  this  to  a  soft  dongh  with  cold 
water,  and  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook,  stirring  well,  for  ten. 
minnteSf  pnt  in  the  bntter,  cook  five  minutes  longer,  and  pour  into  a) 
deep  dish.  It  should  be  neither  gmel  ncnr  paste,  but  sometUi^ 
between  the  two.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

DINNER. 

RabUt  Soap. 

Oyster  Salad.  Steamed  Tnrkey. 

Otanbeny  Sauce.         Scalloped  Cabbage.         Stewed  Squash. 

Myrtle's  Charlotte.  Fmit.  Coffee. 

Rabbit  Soup. 
A  pair  of  wild  rabbits,  skinned,  cleaned  and  jointed,  as  for  frici 
aaaee ;  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  fine ;  a  small  onion, 
sliced;  two  tablespoonfhls  of  butter  cut  up  in  three  of  browned 
floor ;  juice  of  a  lemon ;  as  much  cayenne  as  will  lie  easily  put 
mi  a  silver  half-dime ;  dripping  for  ftying ;  four  quarts  of  cold 


Heat  the  dripping  to  hissing  in  the  fiying-pan ;  fry  the  onion 
Sn  it  until  it  colors  nicely,  then  the  jointed  rabbits ;  take  the  meat 
out  with  a  split  spoon ;  put  into  a  soup  kettle ;  cover  with  the 
chopped  pork ;  pour  in  the  water  and  cook  slowly  until  the  meat 
has  hSlca  from  the  bones ;  season  with  pepper,  and,  if  needed,  more 
4a]t,  and  s«t  away  until  n«xt  day.    Remove  the  &t  from  the  top  ^ 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  435 

the  liquor;  strain  the  latter,  rejecting  bones,  and  squeezing  the 
pourishmeni  out  of  the  meat ;  heat  to  boiling ;  skim  off  the  floating 
scum ;  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour ;  cook  five  minutes ;  add  the 
lemon-juice,  and  pour  out.  Some  think  this  game  soup  improved 
when  a  glass  of  wine  goes  in  at  the  last  It  is  an  excellent  use  to 
which  to  put  tough  rabbits. 

Oyster  Salad, 

Cut  a  quart  of  oysters  into  bits ;  mix  with  them  two-thirds  as 
much  blanched,  tender  celery  (also  cut,  not  chopped  to  pieces),  as 
you  have  oysters ;  put  into  a  glass  dish ;  pour  over  it  a  good  majr 
onnaise  dressing,  and  serve  immediately.  Until  the  oysters  and 
celery  are  mixed,  keep  both  in  a  vexy  cold  place.  This  salad  is 
ddiiciousi  if  eaten  as  soon  as  it  is  made. 


Steambd  Turkey. 

Many  a  tough  gobbler  and  hen-mother,  whose  coming-out  pr»> 
ceded  the  time  of  their  departure  by  several  seasons,  might  have 
won  toleration  on  their  last  exhibition-day  had  they  been  steamed, 
instead  of  roasted.  Pi:epare  the  fowl  by  stufling  in  the  usual  way 
with  a  good  dressing  of  forcemeat.  Bind  the  legs  and  wings  down 
to  the  body  with  tape,  put  the  turkey  in  the  steamer,  shut  up 
closely  and  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.  Test  then 
with  a  fork  to  make  sure  it  is  tender,  undo  the  tapes  and  cover  to 
keep  hot,  while  you  add  to  the  drippings  a  cup  of  hot  milk  in  which 
have  been  stirred  a  great  spoonful  of  flour  wet  with  milk,  salt  and. 
pepper,  and,  when  you  have  stirred  it  to  a  brisk  boil,  the  yolks  of  two 
imw  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  those  of  two  hard-boiled,  minced  fine. 
Cook  two  minutes,  stirrine  all  the  while,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  over 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 

the  breast  of  the  turkey,  the  rest  into  a  sauce-boat.  A  little  chopped 
parsley  improves  the  sauce ;  half  a  can  of  minced  mushrooms  makes 
'k  still  better. 


Cranbbrry  Saucb. 

Pick  over  and  wash  a  quart  of  cranberries ;  add  a  little  water, 
—about  haj''  a  cupful — to  keep  them  from  burning,  and  cook  until 
they  are  broken  to  pieces,  stirring  up  well  from  the  bottom  every 
few  minutes,  until  they  begin  to  burst.  When  they  are  done — not 
until  then — stir  in  two  even  cups  of  white  sugar ;  take  from  the 
fire  as  soon  as  it  is  dissolved;  and  strain  through  mosquito-netting 
into  a  wet  mold.    Put  on  ice  until  firm. 


SCALU>PED  CaBBAGB, 

Boil  a  firm  cabbage  in  two  waters.  Drain  and  press,  and  let  it 
get  perfectly  cold.  Then  mince  fine,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
or  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  iancy.  Put  into  a  buttered  bake- 
dish,  sift  fine  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour,  thea 
brown  delicately. 

Stewed  Squash. 

Cut  off  the  outer  shell,  seed,  cut  small  and  cook  tender  in  bcnl- 
ing  water,  slightly  salt.  Drain  and  rub  through  a  colander  into 
a  saucepan,  stir  in  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  in 
one  of  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  five  minutes, 
beating  well  at  the  last  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Serve  in  a  hot  deep 
dish. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  4a> 

MyRTLE^S    CHARI.OTTE. 

Soak  a  quarter  of  a  package  of  gelatine  two  hours  in  a  cup  ot 
milk ;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  farina-kettle,  and  let  it  get  scalding  hot. 
Strain  and  cool,  but  not  until  it  hardens.  To  a  quart  of  whipped 
cream  add  the  whipped  whites  of  four  eggs  with  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar. ;  Now,  mix  in  the  cooled  gelatine  with  your  egg-beater,  and 
flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almond  essence.  Line  a  glass 
dish  with  slices  of  sponge-cake  or  with  "  lady  fingers,"  fill  with  the 
frothed  mixture,  and  set  in  the  refrigerator  until  wanted.  A  simple 
and  popular  dessert. 

No,  33. 

BREAKFAST. 

Mush  and  Milk.  Sausages.  Baked  Potatoes. 

Pancakes  (sugared)*       Bread — ^Brown  and  Wliite. 

FtuiU  Tea.  Cofifee. 


Mush  and  Milk. 

Scald  a  heaping  cup  of  commeal  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  into  a 
farina-kettle  with  a  pint  of  fresh  milk ;  mash  out  the  lumps,  salt  to 
taste,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer,  after  it  reaches  the  boil. 

r 

Beat  hard,  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish.    Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 


Sausages. 

Make  the  sausage-meat  into  small  cakes,  patting  them  firmly 
into  shape.  Lay  in  a  frying-pan,  add  half  a  qup  of  cold  water,;  and 
W.  them  5;immer  until  iJie  water  i&  hoiled  awav  and  the  sausatres 


428      ^  AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

cooked  to  a  fine  Birown.  Tliis  is  a  great  improvement  npon  the 
isnal  method  of  fiying  sansages  in  their  own  fat.  Link-aatusages 
cooked  in  the  same  way  do  not  burst  or  crack. 


Pancakes  (sugared). 

Two  cups  of  prepared  flour;  two  cups  of  milk;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  two  eggs ;  lard  for  fiying;  powdered  sugar. 

Whip  the  eggs  Ught,  mix  with  the  milk,  add  the  flour  and  butter, 
and  beat  one  minute.  Heat  an  even  tablespoonful  of  lard  in  a  frying- 
pah,  and  when  it  hisses ,  pour  in  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom 
thinly,  cook  quickly,  and,  when  the  batter  is  "  set,"  turn  dexterously 
with  a  spatula,  unless  you  have  practice  in  tossing  pancakes. 
8prinkle  with  sugar,  roll  up  sxaoothly,  sift  more  sugar  on  the  roll, 
ind  send  to  the  table  hot 


). 


Luncheon. 

Italian  Rice  Pudding.       Tomato  Sauce.       Fried  BnacL 
Crackers.  Cheese.  Olives. 

Apple  Charlotte. 


Ii:^ALiAN  Rics  Pudding. 

\  To  two  cups  of  boiled  rice  add  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  in  which 
has  been  stirred  a  bit  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  and  a  dessertspoon* 
ful  of  corn-starch.  Mix  well,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  next  a  cupful  of  minced  veal, 
chicken,  turkey,  duck  or  mutton ;  moisten  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  highly  «^«^oned  gravy,  stir  all  thoroughly,  put  into  a 
buttered  mold,  and  bake,  covered,  in  a  baking-pan  of  hot  water  for 
an  hour.    Turn  out  on  a  hot  flat  dish,  and  pass  tomato  saiice 


AUTUMN  BII^LS  OF  FARB.  499 

Tomato  Sauce. 

To  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  allow  half  an  onion  sliced.  Stew  both 
together  for  half  an  hour,  rub  through  a  colander  and  return  to  the 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
com*starch,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  your 
fancy.    Boil  one  minute,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  dish. 


Pried  Brsad. 

Cut  the  crust  from  slices  of  stale  bread ;  dip  each  in  a  thin  bat* 
ter  made  of  a  cup  of  milk^  two  eggs  and  a  heaping  tablespoonfol  of 
flour  salted  slightly,  and  fry  in  lard  or  clarified  dripping  to  a  yel- 
low-brown. Drain  off  the  fat  from  each  piece  as  you  take  it  up. 
Serve  hot. 

ApPLS  CHAltLOTTB. 

Stew  a  dozen  pared,  cored  and  sliced  tart  apples  soft ;  sweeten 
well  and  rub  through  a  colander ;  set  again  over  the  fire  while  you 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  As  soon  as  it  is  hot  (it  must  not 
boil)  turn  into  a  bowl  to  cool.  When  cold,  beat  in  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Line  a  glass 
dish  with  sliced  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers,  pile  the  apple  within 
ft,  and  cover  with  macaroons  neatly  fitted  together.  Set  on  ice 
Until  wanted. 


DINNER. 

Barley  Broth.  Buttered  Lobster. 

PM-Roaat  of  Be«f.  Potato  Soufi36.  BeaOaktt 

Amber  Pudding.        Fruit.        Black  Co£fot. 


LLS  OF  FARE. 
Barley  Broth. 
Hiree  pounds  of  coarse  mutton,  or  veal,  or  a  "  scrag  "  of  muttoH 
and  a  knuckle  of  veal ;  three  quarts  of  water;  half  an  onion,  sliced 
'  and  fried  to  a  good  brown ;  one  carrot ;  pepper  and  salt ;  one  cupful 
of  pearl  barley,  soaked  three  hours  in  water. 

Put  ■  the  meat,  cut  up  small  and  the  bones  broken,  over  the  fire 
with  the  onion  and  cold  water ;  cook  slowly  for  five  hours,  season, 
and  set  away  until  next  day.  Skim  off  the  fat,  strain  out  bones  and 
meat,  put  the  liquor  into  a  pot  with  the  soaked  and  strained  barley 
and  the  carrot  cut  into  dice.    Simmer  one  hour,  and  serve. 


Buttered  Lobster. 

,   Empty  a  can  of  lobster  some  hours  before  you  wish  to  use  it,  and 

keep  in  a  cold  place.    To  prepare  it,  break  the  meat  into  coarse 

bits,  avoiding  the  mincemeat  or  "  stringy  "  look  that  disfigures  much 

salad  and  many  entrees.  ■  Put  a  clean  saucepan  on  the  range  with 

:e  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  as  much  cayenne  pepper  as  will 

an  the  point  of  a  pen-knife,  the  juice  and  a  quarter  of  the  grated 

I  of  a  lai^e  lemon.    When  the  mixture  simmers,  put  in  the  lob- 

■fwith  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  crumbs,  and  let  it  get  smoking 

,  stirring  it  cautiously  with  a  silver  fork  to  prevent  scorching. 

a  buttered  bake  dish  .or  scallop-shells  with  this,  strew  'fine 

crumbs  on  top,  stick  minute  bits  of  butter  in  them,  and  brown 

lightly  in  a  quick  oven.    Send  heated  crackers  and  sliced  lemon 

around  with  this  dish. 

PoT-RoAST  OF  Beep. 

I^y  a  fillet  or  rib-roast,  from  which  the  bones  have  been  taken, 
fmd  which  is  then  skewered  into  a  round,  in  a  broad,  deep  pot.   Pour 


AUTUMN  BILI<S  OF  FARE.  4$x 

4 

t 

in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water ;  add  two  slices  (no  more)  of  onion,  cover 
closely,  and  cook  gently  ten  minutes  to  the  pound.  Then  transfer 
to  a  dripping-pan,  rub  over  with  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown 
in  a  brisk  oven.  Fifteen  minutes  should  do  this.  Strain  and  cool 
the  gravy  left  in  the  pot ;  take  oflF  the  fat,  put  the  gravy  into  a 
frying-pan,  pepper,  salt,  and  thicken  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour.    Boil  up  well  and  serve  in  a  gravy-boat. 


Potato  Souffle. 

Add  to  a  cupful  of  cold  mashed  potato  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
worked  in'  gradually ;  mash  out  all  lumps  and  beat  very  smooth. 
Whip  three  eggs  and  beat  them  into  the  potato  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  nice  dripping  in  a  frying-pan, 
pour  in  the  potato,  shake,  as  it  cooks,  to  keep  it  clear  of  the  bottom^ 
and  when  "  set "  all  over,  turn  it  into  a  hot  dish  as  you  would  an 
omelette.    Serve  and  eat  at  once. 


Pea  Cak^. 

Empty  the  peas  from  the  can,  drain,  and  let  them  lie  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  salted  water.  Cook  tender  in  boiling  water,  slightly 
salt,  rub  while  hot  through  a  colander,  work  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  liking,  and  let  them  cool.  When 
ready  to  cook  them,  beat  up  two  eggs,  soften  the  peas  with  a  cupful 
of  milk,  worked  in  by  degrees,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  prepared  flour 
to  hold  the  batter  together,  and  fry  as  you  would  griddle-cakes. 
Send  to  table  hot 

Amber  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  butter ;  two  cups  of  sugar ;  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
the  whites  of  eight ;  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two^  lemons ;  half  a 
£lass  of  brandy ;  half  a  nutmoff* 


TUMN  BILLS  OF  FAHH 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  ia  tbe  yoVa,  the  lemon, 
autmeg  and  brandy,  lastly,  the  whites  of  fotfr  eggs.  Whip  very 
light  and  bake  in  bpen  shells  of  nice  pastry.  As  soon  as  the  mix* 
ture  has  set  and  a  skin  fonned  on  the  top,  spread  quiekly,  without 
taking  the  puddings  from  the  oven,  with  meringue  made  of  the 
frothed  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfiils  of  sugar,  and  juice 
of  half  a  lemcm.  Shut  up  again  until  the  meringue  begins  to 
color.    Cat  cold. 

No.    34. 

BRBAKPA8T. 

Bominy  Poiridge.  Fried  I4ver.         White  Scqum. 

Chopped  PoUtoes.  Boiled  Eggs. 

^»8t  Prait  Tea*  Oofifet. 

FKIBD  I4VBR. 
Wash  well;  slice, lay  in  cold  salted  water  to  draw  out  the  blood; 
.  wipe  dry,  salt,  pepper,  coat  each  piece  with  beaten  egg,  and  roll  In 
cracker-crumbs.  Try  out  slices  of  very  iat  salt  pork  in  a  frying^ 
pan  in  which  is  a  sliced  onion.  Strain  the  fat,  return  to  the  pan 
with  a  great  spoonful  of  lard  and  fry  the  liver,  a  few  pieces  at  a 
time,  and  not  too  &st.    Drain  off  the  grease  before  dishing. 

Whttk  Sconbs. 

One  quart  of  prepared  flour ;  a  pint  of  milk ;  two  liberal  table- 
ipoonfnls  of  lard  ;  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt  sifted  with  flour. 

Chop  the  lard  into  the  salted  flour,  wet  with  the  milk ;  roll  out 
t^ijti,  cut  into  biscuits,  and  roll  each  of  these  into  thinner  cokes 
twjoKaslu^.  Pxick  all  over  with  a  fi7rk,bak»  quickly,  buttar  and 
leave  in  the  ov«u  a  minute  l<»ig^r    ?^*  up  on  a  ^ate. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE  433 

Chopped  Potatoes. 

Chop  cold  Irish  and  sweet  potatoes  together.  Put  some  nice 
dripping  into  a  frying  pan,  heat,  pepper  and  salt  it,  put  in  the 
potatoes,  and  shake  and  toss  lightly,  not  to  break  them,  until 
smoking  hot. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

When  possible,  boil  them  on  the  table.  If  you  have  no  egg- 
boiler,  put  the  eggs  into  a  tin  pail  of  boiling  water  in  the  kitchen, 
fit  on  a  close  top,  wrap  in  a  napkin,  and  send  thus  to  the  dining- 
room.  In  six  minutes,  if  the  water  was  boiling  when  they  went  in, 
they  will  be  of  custardy  consistency  throughout,  and  far  more 
digestible  than  when  suffered  to  cook  on  the  fire. 


LUNCHEON. 

Home-Made  Sausage.  Celety  and  Saxdine  Salad, 

Pried  Bananas.  Bread  and  Butter.  Ciacken  aad  Cheese. 

Soft  Gingerbread.  Chocolatei 

Home-Madb  Sausagb. 

One-third  cold  roast  beef;  two-thirds  corned  ham  or  fresh  pork, 
roasted  or  boiled ;  a  little  powdered  sage  and  sweet  maijoram ;  pep^ 
and  salt  to  your  liking;  chop  all  together  fine;  make  into  flat 
cakes ;  roll  in  flouri  and  fry  in  peppered  and  salted  laid. 


Cblbry  and  Sardinb  Salad. 

Cut  the  celery  into  inch-lengths,  season  lightly  with  pepper, 
t  and  vinegar ;  heap  on  a  cold,  flat  dish,  and  lay  sardines  about 
base  of  the  pile.    Foiu:  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing  ov^  aU» 


Soft  Gingbrbrbad. 
One  cup  of  butter ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  one  cup  of  brown  sugar ; 
one  cup  of  molasses ;  five  cupfuls  of  Sifted  flour ;  a  teaspoouful  of 
mixed  cinnamon  and  mace ;  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground 
ginger ;  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  with  the  flour ;  four  eggs.  ' 
,  Warm  molasses,  butter,  sugar  and  spices  slightly  together,  and 
stir  them  to  a  yellow-brown  cream ;  add  the  milk,  the  beaten  eggs, 
the  flour ;  whip  up  well  and  bake  in  two  large,  shallow  pans.  Eat 
frrah,  with  cheese  and  chocolate. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Broiled  Blueflsh.    .    Veal  and  Ham  Fie.        Scalloped  Squash. 

Sweet  Potatoes  au  gratin.        Rice  and  Peach  Pudding. 

Cream  Sauce.  Coffee. 

Vegetable  Soup, 

Three  pounds  of  coarse  beef,  minced;   three  quarts  of  cold 

tvater ;  two  carrots ;  two  turnips ;  one  onion,  minced ;  three  stalks 

of  celery ;    can  of  tomatoes ;  quarter  of  a  cabbage ;  one  root  of 

salsify ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley  ;  pepper  and  salt ;  a 

■  leaspbonful  of  sugar. 

Put  beef  and  water  together  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  Simmer 
gently  for  four  hours.  Pepper  and  salt,  and  set  away  meat  and 
liquor  together  until  next  day.  Take  off  the  fat  and  strain  out  the 
meat.  Pare  and  cut  turnips,  carrots,  celery  and  salsify  into  dice  of 
uniform  size.  Shred  the  cabbage,  mince  the  onion.  Put  all  into  a 
pot,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  drop  in  a  bit  of  soda  no  larger 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  435 

than  a  Lima  bean,  and  cook  gently  twenty  minutes.  Drain  well, 
and  turn  the  vegetables  into  the  soup-stock.  Rub  the  tomatoes 
through  a  colander  and  add  them  with  the  parsley.  ■  Cook  half  an 
hour,  keeping  the  contents  of  the  pot  at  a  slow,  steady  boil  all  the 
time ;  put  in  the  sugar  and  pour  into  the  tureen* 


Broiled  Bluefish. 

Split  down  the  back,  clean,  and  wash  thoroughly  with  vinegar 
and  water.  Broil  over  a  clear,  hot  fire.  When  done,  rub  all  over 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot-water  dish.  For 
sauce,  whip  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  a  cream  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  anchovy-paste,  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  cut  parsley,  and  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon. 


VeaIt  and  Ham  Pie. 

Cut  cold  cooked  veal  and  half  as  much  corned  ham,  also  boiled 
and  cold,  into  neat  dice,  season  with  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  sweet 
herbs,  and  add  a  handful  of  chopped  mushrooms.  Heat  a  cupfiil  of 
gravy  in  a  saucepan,  season  well,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  add  a 
great  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  put  in  the  meat,  bring  to  a  boil,  stir 
in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Fill  a  deep 
bake-dish  with  this,  cover  the  surface  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs^ 
lay  a  good  crust  over  all ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  center  and  bake  to  a  fine 
yellow-brown.  Wash  over  with  white  of  egg,  shut  up  in  the  oven 
for  one  minute,  and  serve. 

Scalloped  Squash. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  squash,  run  through  a  colander,  and  then 
left  to  cool ;  two  eggs  ;  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ;  half  a  cup 
of  milk  ;  pepper  and  salt ;  half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs. 


^UMN  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Beat  eggs,  butter,  milk  and  squash  light,  season,  pour  into  a 
buttered  bake-dish,  sift  the  crumbs  over  it,  and  bate,  covered,  half 
an  hour  and  then  brown  lightly.  Send  to  table  in  the  pudding 
dish.  Never  throw  away  the  remnant  of  a  dish  of  squash  left  after 
dinner.  It  can  always  be  utilized  as  above.  Or,  if  you  have  only 
a  few  spoonfuls,  beat  in  an  egg,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  pepper,  salt' 
and  about  three  tablespooufuls  of  prepared  flour,  just  enough  for 
•oft  batter,  and  bake  As  you  would  griddle  cakes. 

SWBBT  PoTATOas  au  gratitt. 
Bdl^ped  and  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  I^ll  a  buttered 
padding-dish  with  layers  of  the  slices  buttered,  salted  and  peppered. 
Unless  the  potatoes  are  very  sweet,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over 
eadi  stratnm.  Sift  fine  crumbs  on  the  top,  stick  tiny  bits  of 
batter  in  them  and  bake>  covered,  nntil  hot  through,  then  brown 
4«UmteIy. 

Rxcs  AND  Pbach  Puddino. 
IkSi.  a  cupfiil  of  rice  in  plenty  of  salted  water,  until  the  grains 
axe  tender,  but  not  until  you  have  a  paste.  Shake  the  kettle  from 
time  to  time,  and  do  not  touch  the  rice  With  a  spoon.  Drain  off  all . 
the  water ;  set  the  inner  farina-kettle  on  the  side  of  the  range  until 
the  rice  is  dry.  Have  ready  in  a  bowl  three  eggs  beaten  light,  with 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  of  milk.  Mix  the  rice  up  well  with  this, 
nsing  a  silver  fork  for  the  purpose,  not  to  mash  or  break  the  grains. 
Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  peaches,  put  a  layer  of  rice  in  a 
buttered  mold ;  cover  with  peaches  laid  in  evenly ;  more  rice,  etc,' 
tmtil  the  materials  are  used  up.  Cover  the  mold,  and  boil  steadily 
iK  an  hour  and  a  half.  Turn  out,  and  eat  with  creant  sanc^*  Ypn 
can  make  this  of  evaporated  peaches  if  you  Mki^ 


AUTUMN  BII,LS  OF  FARE.  437 

Cream  Sauck. 

A  cup  of  milk  and  one  of  cream  (if  you  can  get  it,  if  not  two 
cups  of  milk) ;  a  cup  of  sugar ;  whites  of  two  eggs  (the  yolks  ol 
which  went  into  your  meat  pie) ;  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste ;  ont 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  wet  with  cold  milk ;  vanilla,  or  hit* 
ter  almond-essence* 

Scald  the  milk,  add  sugar  and  corn-starch,  stir  thtee  minutei, 
and  put  in  the  stiffened  whites,  spices  and  flavoring.  Keep  hot,  but 
not  boiling,  until  you  are  ready  for  it,  by  setting  it  in  a  vessel 
water* 

No.  36 

BREAKFAST. 

Brewis*  Clam  Fritters. 

Risen  Com  Bread.  Stewed  Sweet  Potatoesi. 

Toast  Boiled  ^ggs. 

Tea.  Cofibe.  Ftnit 


Brbwis* 

One  cupful  of  very  fine,  dry  crumbs — ^those  made  from  crusta 
and  old  slices  of  bread  dried  in  the  oven,  then  crushed  with  a  roll* 
ing-pin,  are  the  best ;  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  half  as  much 
boiling  water ;  one  full  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  scant  one  of 
salt;  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  light. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  boiling  water  ten  minutes,  and  stir  into 
the  salted  milk.  Simmer  together  five  minutes,  add  the  butter,  stit 
for  two  minutes,  cover,  and  leave  on  the  fire  three  minutes  longer. 
Take  from  the  stove,  beat  in  the  whipped  whites,  and  send  to  the 
(able  isL  a  deep  dish.    Eat  with  cre9.m  and  sugar. 


^  BILLS  OF  FARE. 
Clam  Fritters. 
,  Twenty-five  clams,  chopped  fine  j  one  cup  of  milk  witli  a  bit  of 
Boda  no  larger  than  a  pea,  stirred  in ;  one  heaping  cupful  of  prepared 
flour;  one  teaspoonful — even — of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper;  two  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  milk,  salt,  pepper,  flour,  lastly  the  clams. 
Wix  thoroughly;  have  plenty  of  fat  or  dripping  in  a  kettle,  an3 
drop  in  great  spoonfuls  of  the  batter.    When  done,  take  out  witli 
K  iplit  spoon,  shake  o£f  the  fat,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Risen  Corn  Bread. 

Two  cups  of  white  com  meal,  and  one  of  flour;  four  cups  of 
fliilk ;  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  a  cupful  of  freshly  mashed  potato, 
hot;  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  half  as  much  butter  or  lard;  a 
heajnng  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast ;  tiny 
bit  of  soda  in  the  milk. 

Rub  the  potatoes  through  a  colander.  While  hot,  work  in  but- 
ter, sugar,  salt,  and  a  cupful  of  flour  alternately  with  two  of  milk. 
Scald  the  meal  with  the  hot  water,  and  add  next  Beat  two  minutes, 
and  pnt  in  the  yeast  while  the  batter  is  blood-warm.  Let  it  stand 
all  night  in  a  covered  bowl.  In  the  morning  work  in  the  rest  of 
the  milk,  and  if  needed,  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  manageable 
dough.  Knead  lightly,  make  into  small  loaves  that  will  fitpatfe- 
pans,  let  them  rise  until  light,  perhaps  half  an  hour,  and  bake  in  a 
steady  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Keep  them  covered  tjntil  they  have 
risen  to  full  height,  then,  brown. 

Stewed  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Cut  cold,  boiled  potatoes  into  dice.    For  a  cupful  of  these  allow 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  nice  beet'  or  poultiy-dripping,  or  butter. 


•w^ 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  439 

Put  tliis  into  a  frying*pan,  and  when  hot,  stir  and  toss  the  dice  in  it 
nntil  slightly  browned  and  well  glazed.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan 
a  cupful  of  gravy  or  stock ;  season  well,  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
empty  the  frying-pan  into  it,  and  draw  to  one  side  of  the  range  where 
it  cannot  cook  at  all,  but  will  keep  warm.  Leave  it  thus  for  five 
minutes,  and  turn  out  into  deep  covered  dish. 


LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  Ham.  Potato  Pu£El 

Kread,  Butter  and  Pickles.  Baked  Apple  Charlotte. 

Chocolate.        Boiled  Chestnuts, 


Deviled  Ham. 

Cut  even  slices  of  corned  or  smoked  ham,  and  fry  in  a  pan  until 
the  edges  begin  jto  crisp.  Transfer  to  a  chafing-dish,  and  keep  hot 
Into  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  stir  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  tart  jelly,  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Bring  to  a  quick  boil,  add  a  great  spoonful  of  sherry,  and  pout 
over  the  ham.    Serve  hot. 

Potato  Puff. 

Allow  a  cupful  of  milk  to  two  of  finely  mashed  potatoes,  with 
two  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  dripping,  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per. Rub  the  butter  and  seasoning  into  the  potato,  then,  the  beaten 
eggs..  When  light  add  the  milk  gradually;  pour  into  a  greased 
bake-dish,  and  set  in  a  quick  oven,  covered,  until  it  has  puffed  up 
well,  then  brown  rapidly.  Serve  in  a  bake-dish  at  once  before 
JtfallB. 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF 

Baxbd  Apple  Chari 
Pare,  slice  and  chop  one  do^.en  tart  pip] 
the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish  wil 
thick  layer  of  apples ;  sprinkle  plentifiill; 
cinnamon ;  another  stratum  of  crumbs,  ai 
foil.  The  topmost  layer  should  be  cniml 
pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  water  in  which  a 
fols  of  sugar  and  one  of  brandy ;  .cover  \t 
deep  plate  over  it ;  bake,  covered,  half  ai 
vith  sweet  sauce. 

BoiLSo  CHBsrmr 

I^ck  out  those  which  are  free  from 

minutes  fast  in  hot  salted  water.    Drain 

and  stir  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 

Bat  hot 

DINNER. 

RabUt  Soup,  Blow 

Curry  of  Tomatoes  an 
Tundps  with  White  Sauce.  B< 

Froit 


Rabbit  Soup. 
'  One  large  rabbit;  one  small  onion, 
pound  of  salt  pork ;  four  tablespooufiili 
cold  water ;  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 

Joint  the  rabbit,  put  into  the  soup 
onion,  cover  with  the  water,  aud  cook  sla 
out  meat  and  bones,  put  back  ov^  tb<^  *^^ 


l&* 


AUTUMN  BILLS  OF  FARE.  441 


S^ttB^ 


simmer  until  the  rice  is  soft,  mince  the  meat  left  in  the  colander 
very  fine,  and  stir  into  the  soup.     Boil  up  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 
"<*  'A  rood  soup. 

cforead;  Browned  Beef's  Tongue. 

^  Boil  a  large  fresh  beefs  tongue  gently  until  a  skewer  passes  easily 

■ninte;  a  through  it ;  have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  pint  of  weak  stock,  or  some 

tt  Inn  of  the  pot-liquor,  strained  and  skimmed,  to  which  you  have  added  a 

tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  as  much  minced  parsley,  a  couple 

of  stewed  tomatoes  strained,  a  pinch  of  mace,  and  the  sainevof  cloves ; 

salt,  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  When  these  ingredients 
I  Mir  have  simmered  together  for  half  an  hour,  lay  the  tongue,  skinned 

n  jm :  and  trimmed  neatly,  in  a  dripping-pan,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  bake, 

I  ad  F  covered,  and  basting  often,  one  hour ;  take  the  tongue  up  and  keep 

warm  while  you  thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  adding  a 

little  made  mustard ;  pour  over  the  tongue. 


Curry  of  Tomatoes  and  Rice. 

^  One  can  of  tomatoes ;  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  rice ;  erne  even 

tablespoonful  of  curry  powder ;  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Stir  the  curry-powder  and  sugar  into  the  tomatoes ;  put  a  layer 
10  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish ;  cover  with  raw  rice;  salt,  and 

art  I  drop  bits  of  butter  over  the  rice;  more  tomatoes;  more  rice,  salt 

and  butter,  until  the  materials  are  all  in.    The  uppermost  layer 
[  i  must  be  tomatoes.     Let  all  stand  together  two  hours.     Bake  in  a 

^  steady,  not  quick  oven,  forty  minutes,  covered,  then  brown.     Send 

jUj  to  table  in  the  pudding  dislu 


44«  ^.uxumi-r  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

TuENiPs  WITH  White  Sauce. 
Peel  and  slice  white  turnips ;  lay  in  cold  w^ter  for  half  an  hour ; 
put  over  the  fire  in  boiling,  salted  water,  and  cook  tender ;  drain, 
pepper  and  salt,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  with  a  cupful  of 
drawn  butter,,  made  with  milk  instead  of  water.     Serve  very  hot 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  Indian  meal ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  four  eggs ;  half 
cup  of  powdered  suet ;  half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  one  cup  of 
molasses  ;  quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  with  the  meal,  twice. 

Heat  the  milk  to  scalding,  add  the  suet  and  the  meal.  When 
the  suet  i§  melted,  put  in  the  cinnamon  and  molasses,  and  let  all  get 
perfectly  cold.  Then  beat  in  the  eggs  hard,  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  mold  with  a  tight  top.  Boil  steadily  four  hours.  Dip  the 
■  mold  into  cold  water  for  a  minute  to  loosen  the  contents.  Turn  out 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  eat  with  butter  and.  sugar,  or  with  hard  sauce. 


The  Thanksgiving  Dinner. 

r\  THANKSGIVING  dinner  should  be  the  visible  s^sndering 
^^  of  thought  and  emotion.  In  clearing  away  the  idolatries 
I  ^  of  Paganism,  we  hacked  so  fiercely  that  some  pretty, 
'  clinging  vines  of  custom  and  affection  fell  with. the  obnox- 

ious trunks.  One  of  these  was  the  religious  feast  in  its  season- — 
the  tender  offerings  of  spring-time ;  the  grapes,  figs  and  mulberries, 
with  a  host  of  other  summer  delicacies ;  the  com,  wine  and  oil, 
which  were  sacrificed  with  song  and  dance  to  Ceres  in  the  bounteous 
autumn. 

It  is  meet  that  we  should  make  merty  and  be  glad  at  the 
Thrice-Blessed  Christmas-tide,  and  there  is  sweet  significance  in  the 
gathering  of  the  family,  young  and  old,  from  near  and  from  far, 
about  the  table  (or  altar),  laden  with  the  kindly  fruits  of  the  earth. 
."All  this  hath  GOD  given  us  !  " 

This  is  my  little  sermon-grace,  if  you  will  have  it — over  our 
Thanksgiving  table. 

The  table  is  not  furnished  as  our  grandams  loaded  theirs  in  the 
olden  time,  so  much  more  rude  than  ours.  The  board  no  longer 
groans,  literally  or  metaphoricall v.  under  its  burden  of  divers  meats, 
vegetables  and  sweets. 


TH©  THANKSGIVING  DINNER* 

^  Whatever  may  be  the  press  of  duties  tliat  on  other  days  drives 
the  business  of  eating  into  a  gobble  and  a  race,  dyspepsia  and^ 
apoplexy  hovering,  viewless,  but  very-present  ghosts  about  the 
dumb  devourers — ^take  time  on  Thanksgiving-day  to  dine.  If  I 
were  a  religious  and  civil  dictator  for  this  one  day,  I  would  ordain 
certain  ceremonies  in  cottage  as  in  palace,  as  hygienic  regulations 
and  means  of  grace. 

First,  then,  my  pale-faced  sister,  sorely  beaten  in  the  long  wrestle 
with  the  problem  how  to  make  fifty  cents  do  the  work  of  seventy- 
five,  resist  the  disposition  to  "  set  everything  on  at  once,  and  get  the 
bother  out  of  the  way."  Lay  what  our  ecclesiastical  forefathers  used 
to  call  quaintly  and  aptly,  "  a  fair  cloth,"  upon  the  table.  Adjust  a 
large  ^lapkin,  or  carving-cloth,  over  the  spot  where  the  chief  dish  of 
meat  is  to  stand. 

Grudge  not  your  best  belongings  of  crockery,  china,  glass  and 
silver.    To  each  plate  allot  a  glossy  (not  starched)  napkin,  a  soup- 
.  sppon  laid  in  front  of  the  plate  and  parallel  with  the  edge  of  the 
table,  at  the  left  side,  two  forks — at  the  right,  two  knives. 

If  you  use  "individual"  salts,  have  one,  newly  filled  and 
imprinted,  at  the  right,  hand ;  also  a  goblet  and  a  butter-plate.     If 

m 

you  have  larger  salt-stands,  assign  one  to  each  comer  of  the  table, 
and  one  midway  up  each  side,  if  the  party  be  large. 

*  As  a  central .  ornament,  have  a  bowl,  or,  if  you  have  no  better 
.  Yessel,  a  soup-plate  of  flowers.  Or — for  these  are  beginning  to  be  very 
^  expensive  now — make  a  beauty  of  economy,  and  fill  the  dish  with 
autumnal,  treasures,  the  hardy  ferns  that  can  still  be  found  under 
the  fallen  shrubs  and  leaves  in  the  woods  ;  bearded  grasses,  silver- 
gray  "  Life-Everlasting,"  the  flufiy  clusters  of  the  wing6d  seeds  of 
clematis,  and  bright  berries  from  wayside  hedges,  with  a  shining 
brown  cone  or  two.  Make  your  decoration  mean  something,  and 
blend  the  fancy  with  all  the  appointments  of  the  feasU 


THE  THANKSGIVING  DINNER-  445 

Witliin  the  napkins  slip  squares  or  thick  bars  of  bread,  and 
lay  on  the  outer  fold  of  each  a  delicate  spray  of  variegated  foliage^ 
€r  a  bit  of  fern  and  bunch  of  bitter-sweet,  or  blue-gray  cedar 
berries. 

Distribute  the  dishes  with  $in  eye  to  effect  of  color  and 
grouping,  rather  than  to  rectilinear  symmetry.  Avoid  rows 
and  "  match-dishes."  Motley  now-a-days  is  your  only  wear,  and  the 
zigzag  the  direction  of  artistic  beauty. 

On  a  side-board,  or  table,  arrange  methodically  relays  of  knives, 
forks,  plates,  etc.,  and  be  sure  the  order  is  comprehended  by  the 
cook  and  waiter  before  the  family  and  guests  sit  down. 

Begin  the  meal  with  a  good  soup. 

To  this  should  succeed  fish — ^if  you  live  near  the  seaboard,  bdled 
cod  with  drawn  butter,  boiled  halibut  with  egg-sauce  poured  over 
it — or  better  than  either,  a  pretty  thick  piece  of  baked  halibut  with 
sauce  tartare. 

None  of  these  are  costly,  and  all  are  good. 

Most  well-bred  people — ^I  may  hint  just  here — ^in  eating  fish, 
boiled  in  particular,  rarely  touch  it  with  their 'knives,  even  when 
these  are  silver.  The  fork  is  used  for  breaking  apart  the  flakes, 
for  separating  from  these  and  removing  the  bones,  and  for  conveying 
the  prepared  morsel  to  the  mouth.  No  vegetables,  unless  it  be  pota- 
toes in  some  form,  are  passed  with  fish. 

Still  leading  up  to  the  main  business  of  the  hour,  let  the  next 
offering  be  a  nice  entree^  or  made-dish,  chicken  pat6s  or  croquettes, 
in  memoriam  of  the  ponderous  chicken-pie  which  was  a  standing 
dish  with  our  gi;andmothers  on  the  fourth  Thursday  of  November. 
With  it  send  around  stewed  salsify  (oyster-plant)  and  pickles. 

Then — for  the  central  theme,  the  point  of  clustering  interests— 

the  Thanksgiving  Turkey  Y  . 

■  \ 


\ 


KSGIVING  DINNER* 

He  should  be  well  stuffed,  carefully  basted,  ju^dously  tnmod 
from  time  to  time,  be  a  constant  if  not  oppressive  solicitude,  never 
lifted  from  the  mind  of  the  cook,  be  she  amateur  or  professional, 
from  the  moment  he  is  put  down  to  roast  until  he  is  drawn — rich  in 
coloring,  done  to  a  turn  in  the  thickest  joint,  but  nowhere  scorched, 
a  goodly  type  of  plenty — from  temporary  seclusion. 
■  Is  it  not  Dickens  who  paints  a  family  of  poor  children  sitting 
aitnutd  the  spit  to  see  the  Christmas  goose  cooked,  and  almost 
dining  on  the  odor  ? 

Surround  our  Bird,  when  dished,  with  small  fried  sausages  not 
larger  than  a  dollar,  interspersed  with  blanched  celeiy-tops.  Ac- 
company him  by  a  sauce-boat  of  gravy  from  which  the  fat  was 
skimmed  before  the  chopped  giblets  were  stirred  in;  a  dish  of 
cranberry  sauce  or  jelly,  and  sweet  potatoes. 

When  the  savory  portion  laid  on  each  plate  has  been  duly  dis- 
cussed, pass  a  glass-stand  or  salver  of  crisp  celery,  both  as  an 
assistant  to  the  gastric  juices  and  a  tonic  (we  do  not  admit  the 
word  "  stimulant "  here)  to  the  palate,  that  shall  prepare  it  for  the 
reminder  of  the  banquet 

If  you ,  introduce  game,  let  it  succeed  the  turkey,  and  some 
lettuce  with  it.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  get  quails,  grouse  or 
venison,  content  yourself  with  a  salad  of  lettuce.  Break  apart  the 
heads  and  wash  each  leaf,  before  dinner,  rejecting  all  that  are  not 
sound  and  fresh.  Heap  these  upon  a  dish  or  plate,  and  leave  in  the 
refrigerator  until  called  for.  This  dish  should  be  brought  to  table, 
and  set  before  the  hostess,  with  a  salad-bowl. 

This  last  must  be  lined  with  a  small,  clean  napkin.  Piuntily, 
with  the  tips  of  your  fingers,  break  in  pieces  the  larger  leaves,  and 
lay.\rith  the  smaller,  upon  the  napkin.  /When  all  are  looked  and 
picked  over,  gather  up  the  four  con?!°rs  of  the  napkin  upon  the 


THE  THANKSGIVING  DINNER.  447 

heap ;  shake  ligHtly  to  get  rid  of  the  clingmg  moistore,  and  tnm 
out  into  the  salad-bowl. 

Lay  the  wet  napkin  npon  the  emptied  dish  in  which  the  lettuce 
was  brought,  and  send  away.  Dress  the  lettuce  with  salt,  white 
sugar,  pepper,  oil  and  vinegar,  allowing  to  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil  twice  the  quantity  of  vinegar,  toss  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  fork, 
until  the  seasoning  permeates  the  salad,  and  send  around  the-  table. 

Salad-dressing  at  table  is  a  graceful,  housewifely  accomplishment 
which  every  woman  should  practice. 

Eat  the  lettuce — and  indeed  all  salads — ^with  the  fork  alone.  If 
the  leaves  have  been  properly  selected,  there  is  no  excuse  for  touch- 
ing the  knife,  and  lettuce  is  unfit  for  table-use  which  cannot  be  cut 
with  a  fork-tine. 

Crackers  and  cheese  follow  this  course,  and,  if  you  like,  oliyesi 
This  is  the  breathing-space  in  a  ;"  course-dinner,"  a  season  of 
leisurely  and  luxurious  resting  on  the  gastronomic  oars  before  the 
next  long  pull. 

The  cheerful  chat,  that  has  been  the  best  sauce  bf  the  meal,  is 
here  especially  in  order — a  running  fire  of  jest  and  repartee  re-acting 
wholesomely  upon  appetite  and  digestion. 

To-day,  allow  the  children  a  modest  share  in  table-talk — an 
exercise  in  which,  by  the  way,  Americans  of  the  middle^lass  are 
usually  egregiously  unskilful.  As  with  other  fine  arts,  practice 
in  this  is  indispensable  to  perfection,  and  the  cultivation  of  it 
involves  what  our  utiUtarian  stigmatizes  as  "trifling  over  one's 
victuals." 

If  we  dallied  longer  over  the  family  meal,  we  would  pay  fewer 
serious  calls  to  the  doctor's  office  and  apothecary's  shop. 

The  pumpkin-pie  is  the  next  consideration.  Keep  the  mince  for 
Christmas.  The  pumpkin  is  the  homelier,  yet  luscious  domestic 
product,  the  representative  of  our  gsmtiered  harvest 


V 


\ 

\ 


\. 


[VING  DINNER* 

id  flaky — not  friable,  and  tasting 
kle  with  an  agreeable  sound,  like 
knife,  and  melt  upon  the  tongue, 
irown,  in  the  enjoyment  of  which 
us  elements  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar 
atisfied  with  the  combined  whole, 
ise,  and  in  indolent  contentment, 
■nd,  these  disposed  of,  send  black  coffee  after  the  withdrawing 
company  into  the  parlor,  as  a  grateful  stomachic  sequel. 

Eleaveu  pity  the  dish-washers  I "  cried  an  old  lady,  admitted  to 
ct  the  glories  of  the  Lord  Mayor's  banquet, 
trhaps  in  the  mind  of  my  fellow-housekeeper  who  can  afford  to 
mt  one  "  girl "  and  does  not  often  "  entertain,"  a  similar  ejacu- 
L  may  arise  in  reading  the  above  sketch  of  a  holiday  feast 
et  one  plume'  less  for  your  winter  bonnet,  and  lay  by  the 
y  thus  saved  to  pay  for  extra  help  on  Thanksgiving  Day. 
Or,  if  you  prefer,  let  the  soiled  dishes  of  the  later  courses  be 
rinsed  in  hot  water,  and  set  by  in  the  back  kitchen  until  next 
morning.  .There  will  be  no  violent  convulsion  of  Nature  should 
you  depart  once  in  a  great  while,  from  established  laws. 

Spare  no  pains  to  make  your  i^vt  feUs  landmarks  in  the  memory 
of  your  children.  The  stately  progress  of  a  dinner  such  as  we  have 
described  is  an  educational  step  to  them,  and  a  solemn  joy  in  the 
recollection.  It  is  worth  while — hmu  well  worth  while  many  are 
prone  to  leave  out  of  sight — to  make  for  ourselves  and  our  juniors 
golden  days  that  shall  never  lose  their  lustre. 

Who  thinks,  even  wice  a  year,  of  the  true  meaning  of  "  holy- 
day  ? "  The  dinner  here  -proposed  costs  no  'more  than  the  very 
prcaniscuous  "  spread  "  that  will  crowd  many  a  table  in  fermhouse 
and  unfashionable  street  upon  the  anniversary,  to  be  swallowed  in 
half  the  time  the  decoions  succf'-^'ffnnf  p4rs  will  require. 


Winter  Bills  of  Fare, 

No.  36. 

BREAKFAST. 

Browned  Rice  Porridge. 

Fricasseed  Eggs.  Crumpets.  Stewed  Potatoe& 

Fruit  Tea.  Coflfee. 

Browned  Rice  Porridge. 
Parch  a  cupful  of  dry  rice  in  the  oven  to  a.  light  brown,  as  you 
would  coffee,  stirring  it  to  prevent  scorching,  and  to  preserve  a 
Uniform  tint.  Put  over  the  fire  in  a  farina  kettle,  with  more  than 
a  quart  of  cold  water,  salt  slightly  and  cook  tender,  but  not  to 
breaking.  Shake  up  from  the  bottom  now  and  then,  but  do  not  stir 
it.  When  done,  drain  oflF  the  water ;  set  the  kettle  uncovered  at 
the  back  of  the  stove  to  dry  off  the  rice.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
cream.  This  is  especially  wholesome  diet  when  laxatives,  such  as 
wheateu  grits,  or  such  heatiug  cereals  as  oatmeal  are  to  be  avoided 
by  the  eater. 


Fricasseed  Eggs. 
Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  throw  at  once  into  cold  water,  and  lot 
them  lie  there  for  the  same  time.   Peel,  cut  each  in  half  lengthwise ; 


^*9p^- 


450  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  '7^ 

extract  the  yolks,  and  mb  smootli  vnth  a  teaspoonfiil  of  anchovy 
paste,  a  little  made  mustard  and  the  tiniest  suspicion  of  cayenne. 
Mould  this  pasty  mixture  into  balls  of  the  same  shape  and  size  as 
the  yolks,  put  them  into  the  cavities  left  in  the  halved  whites, 
fasten  them  in  place  by  tying  firmly  with  cotton  twine  when  you 
have  skewered  them  together  with  wooden  toothpicks,  one  through 
■  each  bisected  e^.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  good  cupful  o{ 
drawn  butter  {drawn  with  milk,  not  water),  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt  and  minced  parsley.  Lay  the  eggs  in  carefully;  set  the 
saucepan  covered  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  gently,  keeping  the 
water  outside  at  a  slow  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Arrange  the  eggs  in 
a  pile  on  a  heated  platter,'  and  pour  the  sauC|e  over  them. 


Crumpets. 

One  quart  of  milk ;  half  a  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  one  tablespoonfiil  of  lard,  and  the 
same  of  butter;  onehalfteaspoonfniof  salt;  one  quarter  teaspoonful 
.  of  so^a  sifted  twice  with  the  salt  in  a  quart  of  flour. 

Mix  well  over  night;  beat  up  hard  in  the  morning;  let  it  rise 
for  an  hour  longer ;  half  fill  heated  and  greased  muffin  tins,  on  a 
heated  and  greased  griddle  with  the  batter,  and  bake  on  the  top  of 
the  range,  turning  once.  Run  a  sharp  knife  around  the  inside  of 
each  'ring  to  loosen  the  crumpet.  Eat  hot  The  cold  ones  left  over 
aire  nice,  if  split,  toasted  and  buttered. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  on  Toast 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter.  Jellied  Tbngnet 

Hot  Crackers.  Cheese. 

An  Excellent  Cup  Cake. 

Cocoatheta, 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  451 

Oysters  on  Toast. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters ;  cut  each  into  foul 
pieces,  and  drain  again  in  a  colander  for  fifteen  minutes.  Heat  the 
liquor,  and  strain  through  coarse  muslin  back  into  the  sauce.  When 
it  boils  again,  dip  out  a  small  cupful  and  keep  it-hot.  Stir  into  that 
left  on  the  range  a  liberal  teaspoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  a  scant 
teaspoonful  of  corn-starch.  In  another  vessel,  heat  haff  a  cupfiil  of 
milk.  Stir  the  oysters  into  the  thickened  liquor ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  cook,  after  they  are  scalding  hot,  five  minutes 
before  adding  the  milk.  Line  a  hot  platter  with  net  slices  of  crust- 
less  toast,  buttered,  wet  with  the  reserved  Hqnor,  and  cover  with 
the  oysters. 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter. 
Cut  the  "kissing  slice  "from   the  end  of  a*  loaf;  butter  the, 
exposed  surface,  and  slice  very  thin.     Butter  again,  and  slice  until 
you  have  enougll  cut.     Draw  a  sharp  knife  across  tlie  middle  of 
each  slice  and  fold  it  over  upon  itself,  buttered  sides  inward. 


Jellied  Tongue. 
Clear  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which  a  smoked  tongue  wa 
by  heating  to  a  boil,  and  stirring  in  the  white  of  an  egg,  t 
iiig  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  thick  cloth 
squeezing,  and  pour  it  boiling-hot  on  half  a  package  of 
which  has  been  soaked  two  hours  in  enough  cold  water.to 
Add  to  this  a  blade  of  mace,  half  a  dozen  black  pepperct 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sharp,  clear  vinegar.  Stir  until  the 
is  dissolved,  and  strain,  without  pressing,  through  a  flan 
When  it  is  cold,  and  begins  to  congeal  at  the  edges,  fill  a 


:.LS  OF  FARE. 

,  slices  of  tongue  arranged  hi  pe^ 

pcnoicuiar  rows,  anu  jiuur  tuc  jclly  Over  tliem.     Set  in  a  cold  place 

until  firm ;  turn  out  on  a  cold  platter.     You  can  jelly  the  tongue 

whole,  if  you  like/by  cutting  oflf  the  root,  and  trimming  the  rest 

)  a  neat  shape,  paring  away  every  particle  of  skin,  and  omitting 

tough  tip  altogether.    Irfiy  it  in  an  oval  pan  or  mold,  and  covet 

h  the  semi-liquid  jelly.    It  will  be  a  handsome  dish  when  turned 


An  Excellent  Cup  Cake. 

Two  rounded  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  one  even  cup  of  butter; 
ene  cup  of  milk ;  three  cups  of  prepared  flour ;  four  eggs ;  one  lemon, 
juice  and  rind. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  in  the  lemon,  the  whipped 
^olks,  the  milk ;  then  frothed  whites  and  flour  by  turns.  Bake  in 
small  tins,  or  in  two  square  tins. 


DINNBR. 

Giblet  Soup. 

Roast  Beef,  with  Yorkshire  Pudding.  Sea  Kale. 

Mount  Blanc  Potato.        Creamed  Sponge  Cake, 

Brandied  Peaches.        Fruit        Coffee. 


Giblet  Soup. 

Ceolc  the  giblets  of  a  turkey,  or  those  from  a  pair  of  chickens, 

in  a  pint  of  cold  water  until  tender ;  salt,  und  set  away  in  the  liquor 

:old  and  stiff.    Take  them  out,  and  cfac^  fine,  when  yon  hscn 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  453 

•  * 

skimmed  the  fat  from  the  liquor,  aud  piit  it  over  the  fire  with  a  pinl 
of  soup  stock.  Boil  up  well,  skim,  strain  back  into  the  pot,  add  the 
minced  giblets,  and  season  to  taste.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  which  has  been  cut  up,  and  worked  into 
two  of  browned  flour.  Stir  steadily  until  it  melts  and  simmers, 
when  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Turn  intc^ 
the  soup,  rinsing  out  the  frying-pan  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot 
liquor  to  get  all  the  flour  and  butter.  Cook  gently  for  ten  minutes^ ' 
and  serve. 


Roast  Beep  with  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

When  a  roast  of  beef  is  within  half  an  hour  of  the  "  tarn,** 
drain  off"  the  gravy  in  a  bowl,  leaving  about  two  tablespoonfuls 
in  the  dripping  pan.  Lay  a  gridiron  over  the  pan,  if  you  have 
one  that  will  go  into  the  oven.  If  not,  prop  the  meat  on  clean  sticks 
of  oak  or  hickory  (not  pine)  laid  across  the  top  of  the  dripping 
pan.  Pour  in  the  pudding,  letting  the  fat  from  the  roast  drop  on  it 
as  it  cooks. 


Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Four  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  two  cups  of 
prepared  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  whites  and  yolks 
into  separate  howls;  into  the  latter  stir  the  milk,  then  frothed 
whites  and  salted  flour  by  turns ;  mix  quickly,  and  bake  at  once. 
Cut  the  pudding  into  strips  an  inch  wide  by  three  long,  and  lay 
about  the  beef  when  dished,  helping  one  or  two  pieces  with  each 
slice  of  meat. 


Sea  Kalb. 

This  is  a  vegetable  that  needs  only  to  be  better  known  to  become 
uridely  popular.     Lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  when  you 


I 


454  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

have  washed  and  picked  it  over  to  get  out  dead  leaves,  coarse  stems, 
bits  of  sand,  &c. ;  cook  twenty-five  minutes  in  boiling  Avater, 
salted ;  drain,  and  press  in  a  colander,  chop  fine,  return  to  the  fire 
in  a  saucepan  and  beat  into  it  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  a  great  spoonful  of  vinegar ;  stir  and  toss  until  very 
hot  and  dish. 


Mont  Blanc  Potato. 
Instead  of  mashing  boiled  potatoes,  whip  light  and  dry  with  a 
wooden  or  silver  fork.  At  this  point,  begin  to  whip  in  a  cupful  of 
hot  milk  for  a  quart  of  mashed  potatoes,  and  when  all  is  in,  beat 
in  the  frothed  white  of  two  eggs.  Heap  conically  in  a  deep  silver 
or  stoneware  dish ;  set  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  surface  hardens 
slightly.  Withdraw  before  it  catches  a  shade  of  brown,  wash  over 
lightly  with  butter,  and  send  to  table. 


Creamed  Sponge  Cake. 

Cut  the  top  from  a  stale  sponge  cake  loaf  in  one  piece,  half  an 
inch  thick.  Dig  and  scrape  the  crumbs  from  inside  of  loaf  and 
upper  slice,  leaving  enough  to  keep  the  outside  firm.  Spread  a 
thick  layer  of  fruit  jelly  on  the  inside.  Heat  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  boil ^ 
stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with  cold  milk,  and  the  cake 
crumbs  rubbed  fine.  Stir  until  thick,  take  from  the  fife,  beat  in  two 
whipped  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Make  all  into 
smooth  batter ; .  set  in  boiling  water  on  the  range  and  stir  for  five 
minutes  after  the  mixture  is.  really  hot  through.  Turn  into  a  bowl, 
flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almond  essence,  and  let  it  get  cold. 
Fill  the  cake  with  it^  fit  on  the  top,  wash  all  over  with  whipped 
white  of  ^gg ;  sift  powdered  sugar  evenly  over  it  until  no  more 
will  adhere  to  the  surface,  and  let  it  harden. 

Send  around  brandied  peaches  with  this. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  455 

No.  a7. 

BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  Boiled  with  Milk.  Creamed  Egf  s. 

Fried  Mush.  Brown  Muffins.  Maple  Syrup. 

Tea.  Cofiee.  Fruit 


Hominy  Boilkd  with  Milk. 

Oue  cupful  of  small  hominy ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  salted; 
one  cupful  of  milk ;  salt  to  taste. 

Wash  the  homiuy  in  two  waters  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water. 
Cook  half  an  hour  (in  a  farina  kettle,  of  course),  drain  oflF  all  the 
water  that  will  come  away,  add  the  milk,  already  heated,  and  cook 
half  an  hour  longer.     Eat  with  cream,  and,  if  you  like,  sugar. 


Creamed  Eggs. 

Break  as  many  eggs  in  a  buttered  pie-dish  as  it  will  hold  with* 
out  crowding  each  other.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  a 
bit  of  butter  on  each.  Have  ready  a  cup  of  hot  milk  in  which  has 
been  cooked  for  one  minute  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  or,  better 
yet,  of  arrowroot  wet  up  with  cold  water.  Pour  this,  a  spoonful  at 
a  time,  about  the  raw  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  eggs 
are  fairly  set  Five  minutes  should  do  it.  Send  to  table  at  once 
in  the  pie-plate. 

Fried  Mush. 

One  heaping  cup  of  Indian  meal ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and 
one  of  cold,  in  which  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  salt — a  full  one.  . 

Stir  the  meal,  wet  with  cold  water,  into  the  pot  of  boiling  water, 
ind  cook  one  hoar,  stirring  up  from  the  bottom  once  in  a  while. 


**ft  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE 

Wet  muffin  tins  in  cold  water,  and  fill  with  the  mush  over  night 
In  the  morning  slip  the  stiffened  shapes  out,  flour  them  well  and  fry 
is  hot  dripping. 

Brown  Muffins. 

Three  even  cups  of  Graham  flour ;  one  even  cup  of  white  flour ; 
four  cups  of  milk ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar ;  one  teaspoonfiil  of 

salt 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  milk,  sift  the  flour, 
white  and  brown,  with  the  salt ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  stir  in 
the  milk  and  then  the  yeast ;  beat  well,  set  to  rise  over  night,  and 
bake  in  small  tins  in  a  good  oven.  Let  the  batter  stand  in  the  tins 
in  a  warm  place  twenty  minutes  before  going  into  the  oven. 


LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  Butter.  Barbecued  Ham. 

Cream  Toast  Baked  Potatoes. 

Steamed  Potatoes.       Marmalade  Cake. 


Barbecued  Ham. 

Fry  slices  of  cold,  boiled  ham ;  keep  warm  while  you  stir  into 
the  gravy  left  in  the  pan  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  mixed  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  catsup,  or  Chili  sauce,  and  a  little  pepper.  Boil  up  once  and  pour 
on  the  fried  ham.  This  dish  is  sometimes  called  ^^  deviled  haiUi'* 
and  is  a  good  spur  to  appetite. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  457 

Crkam  Toast, 

lEKght  or  ten  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread.  Cut  oflF  the  crusts ; 
two  cups  of  hot  milk ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  whites  of  two 
^gS^  J  boiling  water,  salted. 

As  each  slice  of  bread  is  toasted,  dip  in  a  saucepan  of  salted 
boiling  water,  kept  on  the  range ;  pile  in  a  deep  covered  dish.  Put 
on  the  top  of  the  dish  when  all  the  dipped  toast  is  in,  and  make  the 
sauce.  Heat  the  milk  to  scalding,  add  the  butter,  and  when  it  is 
melted,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Pour  upon  the 
toast,  lifting  the  lower  slices  to  let  the  dressing  get  at  them,  cover 
and  keep  hot  for  five  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table. 


Baked  Potatoes. 

Select  fine,  fair  potatoes,  wash  and  wipe,  and  bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  largest  yields  to  a  vigorous  pinch  of  thumb 
and  finger.  Line  a  dish  with  a  napkin,  and  serve  them  without 
peeling. 

Steamed  Apples. 

Wash  and  wipe  sweet  apples ;  dig  out  the  blossom-end  and  the 
upper  part  of  the  core  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  lay  them 
close  together  in  a  baking-pan.  Half  submerge  in  cold  water; 
cover  closely  and  cook  tender.  Let  them  get  cold,  still  covered,  in 
a  glass  dish,  and  eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 


Marmalade  Cake. 

One  cup  of  prepared  flour ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter ;  one  tablespoonful  of  milk ;  three  eggs ;  marmalade 
or  jelly  (sweet)  for  filling. 


4S&  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  light  sauce,  beat  the  eggs  light 
Whip  the  beaten  yolks  into  the  creamed  sugar  and  butter,  add  the 
milk,  the  whites,  and  the  flour.  Bake  in  three  jelly  cake-tins,  and 
spread  marmalade,  sweet  jelly  or  jam  between. 


DINNER. 

Clam  Chowder.  Boiled  Chicken  in  Rice. 

Stewed  Celery.  Mashed  Potatoes.  Lettuce  Salad* 

Crackers  and  Roquefort  Cheese. 
Coffee,  Jelly  and  Cake.        Fruit        Coffee. 


Clam  Chowder.    (The  best  on  record.) 

Two  quarts  of  long  clains,  chopped ;  two  quarts  of  tomatoes  (or 
one  quart  can)  ;  a  dozen  potatoes  peeled,  or  cut  into  dice ;  one  large 
^onion,  sliced  thin ;  eight  pilot  biscuits ;  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork,  minced ;  twelve  whole  allspice,  and  the  same  of  cloves ;   as 

< 

much  cayenne  pepper  as  you  can  take  up  on  the  point  of  a  knife ; 
salt  to  taste ;  two  quarts  of  cold  water. 

Fry  the  chopped  pork  crisp  in  a  pot,  take  the  bits  out  with  ? 
skimmer,  and  fry  the  minced  onion  until  it  is  colored.  Now  put 
with  the  fat  and  onion  the  tomatoes  and  potatoes,  the  spices  tied  up 
in  a  bag,  the  water  and  the  pepper.  Cook  steadily  four  hours.  At 
the  end  of  three  hours  and  a  half,  add  the  clams  and  the  pilot  bread. 
This  last  should  be  broken  up  and  soaked  in  warm  milk.  Some 
consider  that  the  chowder  is  improved  by  stirring  iu,  five  minutes 
before  serving,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  browned  flour.  It 
is  delicious  with,  or  without,  this  final  touch* 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARB.  459 

BoiutD  Chicken  on  Rick. 

Prepare  the  fowl  as  for  roasting,  bind  in  a  piece  of  mnsliii  or 
aosquito  net ;  put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  twelve  min« 
utes  to  the  pound.  Half  an  hour  before  taking  it  up,  dip  out  a  cup- 
ful of  liquor  from  the  pot,  strain  it,  and  set  in  ice-cold  water  to  throw 
up  the  grease.  Skim  this  off,  and  season  the  cup  of  broth  well  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  two  cupfuls  of  rice  which  has  been 
boiled  ten  minutes,  and  then  drained.  Mix  this  with  the  skimmed 
broth|  and  cook  in  a  farina  kettle  until  the  rice  is  tender.  Shake 
the  kettle,  now  and  then,  but  do  not  put  a  spoon  into  the  rice. 
When  all  the  broth  is  absorbed,  stir  in  very  lightly  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  a  little  minced  parsley,  with  a  beaten  tgg.  Cook  one 
minute,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Spread  the  rice  two  inches  thick  in 
the  bottom  of  a  hot  platter,  and  settle  the  boiled  chicken  in  the  mid- 
dle. For  gravy,  heat  another  cupful  of  broth,  strain,  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  one  of  flour,  and  when  it  thickexis, 
salt  and  pepper,  a  beaten  egg  and  minced  parsley.    Cook  ten  min< 

utes,  and  send  to  table  in  a  boat 


Stswbd  CBuntY. 

Scrape  and  wash  the  celery,  cut  it  into  inch-lengths,  and  cook 
ten  minutes  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Turn  this  off,  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  As  this  reaches  the  boil,  drain  it  off  and  add  a  cup  of 
milk,  dropping  in  a  bit  of  soda  not  larger  than  a  grain  of  com ; 
aeat,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  stew  gently  five  minutes  longer.  As  you  scrape  and  cut 
the  celery,  drop  each  piece  into  cold  water  to  keep  it  white. 


46o  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Lbttucb  SALAa 

Wash  the  lettaoe  fidthfully,  and  pick  out  the  best  pieces,  i.  e^ 
the  whitest  and  crispest  leaves  for  the  table.  Do  this  just  before 
dinner  is  served,  and  leave  in  ice-water  until  it  is  wanted.  line  a 
salver  with  a  small  napkin,  and  pile  the  lettuce  on  it  Tear  the 
^  leaves  into  smaller  pieces  daintily,  and  lay  in  the  salad  bowl.  Scat- 
ter salt,  pepper,  and  white  sugar  over  and  among  them ;  when  they 
are  ready  for  seasoning,  pour  in  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad 
oil,  and  double  the  quantity  of  vinegar ;  toss  (still  daintily),  with  a 
salad  fork  and  spoon,until  the  dressing  is  impartially  distributed, 
and  pass  the  bowl  at  once.  Salad  dressed  in  this  way,  and  eaten 
before  the  crisp  succulence  of  the  lettuce  is  destroyed  by  the  vine- 
gar, is  quite  a  different  thing  from  the  wilted  greens  often  passed 
under  the  much-perverted  name.  It  should  never  be  touched  with 
the  knife  in  preparing  or  in  eating.  You  may  send  around 
tnckers  and  cheese  with  it 


OOVPBS  Jbext. 

One  package  of  Coxe's  gelatine  soaked  for  four  hours  in  enougli 
cold  water  to  cover  it  an  inch  deep  when  it  is  put  in. 

Two  cups  of  dear  black  coffee;  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
iugar ;  two  cups  of  boiling  water. 

When  the  gelatine  has  soaked  long  enough,  put  it  with  the 
sugar  into  a  large  bowl,  and  let  them  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Stir 
in,  then,  the  water,  actually  boiling,  and  when  the  gelatine  is 
dissolved,  strain.  Add  the  coffee,  strain  without  pressing  the 
flannel  bag,  and  set  in  a  wet  mold  to  form.  When  you  are  ready  to 
serve  it,  turn  out  carefully  on  a  fiat  dish,  and  serve  with  sugar  and 


W^        =^T- 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE-  #B: 

No.  38. 
BREAKFAST. 

Hominy  Porridge.  Fish  Balls. 

Risen  Muffins.  White  and  Graham  Bread. 

Chocolate,  Tea.  Fruit 


Hominy  Porridgb. 

One  cupful  of  small  hominy ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  salt  to  taste. 

Wash  the  hominy  in  two  waters,  leaving  it  in  the  second  for  ao 
hour  or  so ;  drain  in  colander  lined  with  coarse  cloth,  and  stir  into 
the  salted  water,  which  should  be  boiling  in  a  farina  kettle ;  cover, 
and  cook  half  an  hour ;  beat  up  from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden 

■ 

spoon,  and  boil,  uncovered,  fifteen  minutes ;  beat  in  the  butter,  and 
pour  into  a  deep  dish.  Bat  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  cream 
only. 


mmm 


Fish  Balls. 

Mince,  or  pick  into  fine  shi*eds  a  cupful  of  salt  cod,  soaked^ 
boiled  and  cold.  Put  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  freshly  mashed 
potato,  and  half  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter  in  which  a  raw  egg  has 
been  beaten.  Work  lightly  until  well  mixed  and  soft;  flour  a 
tolling-board,  and  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  on  it.  Roll  into 
a  ball,  and  lay  on  a  cold  platter.  When  all  the  balls  have  been 
made,  set  in  a  cold  place.  Do  this  over  night.  Heat  lard  or  drip- 
ping enough  to  cover  the  fish-balls  in  a  deep  frying-pan ;  try  one 
to  see  if  it  is  hot  enough  to  cook  it  quickly,  and  fry,  a  few  at  a  time, 
to  a  fine  golden  brown.  As  you  cook,  lay  them  in  a  hot  colander 
to  free  them  from  grease.  Heap  on  a  heated  platter,  slice  a  lemon 
Bun,  and  garnish  the  edges  ^^  ^he  dish  with  it. 


4^  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE, 

RiSBN  Muffins. 

Pour  cups  of  flour ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  two  eggs ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  or  sweet  lard ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  milk,  salt,  yeast,  shortening  (melted)| 
sugar,  at  last,  the  flour.  Let  the  batter  rise  all  night,  setting  it  at 
bed  time.  In  the  morning,  bake  in  muffin-rings  on  a  griddle,  or  in 
small  tins. 

LUNCHEON. 

Calf  8  Bndiui.  Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Steamed  Com  Bread. 
Mock  Bast  India  Preserves.  Cookies. 


Calf's  Brains. 

The  brains  of  a  calf;  two  beaten  eggs ;  one  tablespoonful  ai 
butter ;  !ialf  a  cup  of  g^avy ;  some  rounds  of  fried  bread,  or  of  toast. 

Wash  the  brains  in  cold  water,  and  take  out  fibres  and  skin. 
Drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  fast  fifteen  minutes.  Leave  in  ice 
water  imtil  perfectly  cold.  Mash  them,  then,  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  beat  in  the  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper  to  your  liking.  When 
you  have  a  smooth  paste,  heat  the  butter  to  hissing  in  a  frying-pan, 
«tir  the  brains  in,  and  cook,  keeping  the  spoon  busy,  two  minutes. 
Have  ready  some  rounds  of  fried  bread  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  on  each 
a  teaspoonful  or  so  of  scalding  broth  or  gravy,  and  heap  the  smok« 
hig  mass  of  soft  brains  on  them,  as  you  would  scrambled  eggs. 


Boiled  Corn  Brbad. 

Two  cups  of  white  *  commeal ;  one  cup  of  Graham  flour ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  two  and  a  half  cups  of  milk ;  two  tss^ 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  463 

spoonfuls  of  Bating   Powder;    one  great   spoonful   of  shortening 
(half  butter  and  half  lard)  and  a  spoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  baking-powder  with  the  flour,  add  the  meal,  and  sift 
again ;  rub  butter  and  sugar  together ;  salt,  and  stir  in  the 
milk ;  the  latter  should  be  slightly  warmed.  Pour  this  liquid  in  a 
hole  made  in  the  mingled  meal  and  flour,  gradually  stirring  down 
the  dry  flour  toward  the  center :  beat  all  hard,  two  minutes  at  least ; 
two  hours  will  be  better.  Dip  for  a  second  in  cold  water,  and  turn 
the'  bread  out  upon  a  warm  plate.    Eat  at  once.    It  is  very  good* 


Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Strain  most  of  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  butter  a  bake* 
dish,  spread  a  layer  of  tomatoes  in  the  bottom,  season  with  bits  of 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  a  few  shreds  of  onion.  Cover  this 
layer  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  put  over  it  another  of  tomatoes, 
seasoning,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  The  top  should  be  a 
stratum  of  seasoned  crumbs.  Set  in  the  oven,  covered,  and  bake, 
removing  the  lid  ten  minutes  before  taking  it  out,  that  it  may 
brown  delicately. 

Mock  East  India  Preserves. 

Six  pounds  of  pared  and  minced  pippins,  or  other  winter  apples ; 
six  pounds  of  sugar ;  three  lemons ;  three  roots  of  white  ginger 
feliced  thin. 

Put  the  sugar  over  the  fire  with  a  cup  of 'boiling  water  to  prevent 
burning ;  as  it  dissolves,  increase  the  heat  and  bring  to  a  brisk  boil. 
Cook  thus,  twenty  minutes  without  stirring,  but  watching  to  see 
that  it  does  not  scorch;  skim  and  add  the  apples,  the  lemons 
minced  (all  except  the  seed)  and  the  sliced  ginger ;  boil  to  a  clear 
yellow,  as  briskly  as  is  safe ;  pack  in  small  jars* 


^    t 


464  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Cookies. 

One  large  cup  of  sugar ;  one  scant  cup  of  butter ;  two  beatem 
eggs ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  i 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  each,  a  half  teaspoonful ;  nearly  three  cups 
of  prepared  flour,  enough  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  into  a  soft  dough. 

Rub  butter  aud  sugar,  beat  in  the  whipped  eggs,  the  spices,  salt, 
xoilk,  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  into 
shapes  with  a  cake-cutter.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


DINNER. 

Calfs  Head  Soup. 

Halibut  Steak.  BetPsTongn^  au^ra/m. 

Potato  Puff.  Stewed  Oyster  Plant 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling,  Brandy  Sauce. 

Coffee. 


Calf^s  Head  Soup. 

A  calfs  head  cleaned  with  the  skin  on ;  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  a  like  quantity  of  browned  flour ;  six  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  one  onion  sliced  and  fried,  and  one  grated  carrot ;  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs  ;  pepper  and  salt ;  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one  of  sugar ;  one  glass  of 
brown  sherry. 

Boil  the  head  tender,  and  set  it  aside  in  the  liquor.  Next  day, 
take  it  out  of  the  stock,  scrape  off  the  jelly,  and  cut  the  meat  neatly 
from  the  bones.  Reserve  that  from  the  top  of  the  head  and  cheeks 
to  cut  into  dice,  and  set,  for  this  purpose,  with  the  tongue,  in  a  cool 
place.   Set  the  stock  over  fire  and  add  to  it  the  bones,  the  refuse  meatf 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  465 

tlie  lierbs,  fried  oniou  aud  carrot,  aud  cook  one  liour ;  strain,  when 
you  have  picked  out  the  bones,  and  rub  the  vegetables  through  the 
colander.  Put  the  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  when  warm,  stir  in 
the  flour  to  a  brown  roux^  as  it  is  called ;  add  the  spice,  the  pepper 
and  the  salt,  and  turn  into  the  soup ;  boil  two  minutes,  drop  in  the 
dice  of  meat  cut  with  a  sharp  knife,  heat  to  a  quick  boil,  and  put  ic 
the  sauce.  The  wine  is  added  in  the  tureen.  Lay  thin  slices  oi 
peeled  lemon  on  the  surface  of  the  soup.  You  may,  if  you  like, 
make  forcemeat-balls  of  the  brains,  sstirred  up  with  raw  t!g%  and 
flour,  also  add  a  cup  of  tomato  juice.  There  is  no  better  soup  than 
this  when  it  is  properly  made,  nor  is  it  so  difficult  as  one  might 
imagine  from  the  length  of  the  recipe. 


Halibut  Steaks. 
Wash  and  wipe  the  steaks,  dip  in  beaten  t.%%y  then  roll  in 
cracker-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  hot  drip- 
ping ;  or,  you  may  broil  the  steaks  on  a  gridiron  as  yon  would 
beefsteak.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  rub  on  both  sides  with  a  mixture 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 


Beef's  Tongue  augratin. 

Wash,  trim  and  scrape  a  fine,  fresh  beefs  tongue,  and  cook  in 
boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  one  hour. 

Take  up,  wipe  off  the  liquor,  cover  with  beaten  ^%;gy  roll  it  in 
cracker-crumbs,  put  into  a  dripping-pan  and  brown,  brushing  it 
twice  with  melted  butter  while  it  is  in  the  oven.  Keep  hot  in  a 
chafing-dish,  while  you  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  a  cup 
ful  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  tongue  was  boiled,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  cut  up  in  browned  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  up,  and  strain  into 
a  j^vy-boat« 


466  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

,        Potato  Puff. 

Boil,  and  masli  the  potatoes  in  the  usual  way,  with  butter  aud 
milk;  beat  in  two  eggs,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bake  dish.  Brown 
on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  baked. 


Stswbd  Oyster  Plant. 

Scrape,  and  cut  into  inch-lengths  a  bunch  of  oyster  plant,  drop- 
ping it  into  cold  water,  as  you  cut  it,  to  keep  the  color.  Stew 
tender  and  white,  in  boiling  water,  a  little  salt.  Turn  oflF  the  water, 
and  supply  its  place  with  a  cup  of  hot  (not  boiled)  milk,  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  one  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to 

« 

taste,  stew  three  minutes,  stirring  once  or  twice  to  prevent  lumping, 
and  serve. 

Bakbd  Apple  Dumplings. 

Four  sifted  cups  of  prepared  flour  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
and  the  same  of  butter ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  eight  fine  tart  apples ; 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Chop  the  butter  and  lard  into  the  flour  (salted)  and  mix  with  milk 
to  a  soft  dough,  roll  Into  a  sheet  nearly  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into 
squares  about  five  inches  across ;  pare  and  core  the  apples,  and  put 
one  in  the  middle  of  each  square ;  fold  over  the  four  comers  of  the 
paste,  pinching  the  edges  together,  and  arrange  in  a  floured  baking- 
pan,  the  folded  part  downward ;  bake  to  a  light  brown  ;  rub  with 
butter  when  done,  and  sift  sugar  on  the  top. 


Brandy  Sauce. 

Two   tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;   two  cups  of  powdered  sugar ; 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy ;  quarter  of  a  pfrated  nutmeg. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  467 

The  butter  j^hould  be  rather  soft,  but  not  melted.  Cream  it 
light  with  the  sugar,  spice,  and  beat  in  the  brandy,  whip  hard,  heap 
on  a  glass  dish,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  it  is  wanted  on  the 
Uble. 


No.  39. 
BREAKFAST. 

Oatmeal  Porridge.  Codfish  Omelette. 

Southern  Batter  Bread.  Potato  Loaves. 

Cold  Bread.  Fruit 

Tea.  Coflfee. 


Codfish  Omelette. 

One  cup  of  ^^  picked  "  salt  cod  which  has  been  soaked,  boiled 
and  allowed  to  get  cold ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  but* 
ter  rubbed  in  one  of  flour ;  seven  eggs  beaten  light ;  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley ;  seven  rounds  of  crustless  toast,  dipped  in  boiling 
water,  then  buttered. 

Heat  the  milk,  stir  in  the  floured  butter,  pepper,  parsley  and 
minced  fish.  Take  from  the  fire  after  two  minutes  cooking,  add  the 
eggs  quickly  and  pour  into  a  frying-pan  in  which  is  hissing  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  shake  and  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  form 
at  the  edges,  when  heap  on  the  buttered  toast  spread  on  a  hot  dish. 
Serve  hot 


Southern  Batter  Bread. 

Three  cups  of  Indian-meal ;  half  cup  of  boiled  rice  (cold; ;  one 
pint  of  boiling  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  three  eggs ;  one  cup- 
ful of  buttermilk,  or  sour  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard ;  on* 
even  teaspoonful  <^  soda. 


468  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Sift  salt,  soda  and  meal  together  twice ;  wet  up  with  the  hot 
water,  and  beat  in  the  lard  and  rice.    Now,  whip  in  the  beaten  eggr, 
lastly,  the  sour  milk  and  lard.     Bake  in  a  shallow  tin,  or  pie-plate 
This  is  best  when  made  with  Southern  com-meaL 


Potato  Loavbs. 

Work  cold  masbed  potatoes  soft  with  a  little  butter  and  th« 
'  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs,  say,  one  yolk  to  each  cupful,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  make  into  neat  loaves,  flouring  your  bands  to 
enable  you  to  handle  the  paste.  Do  not  get  it  too  stiff.  Flour 
well,  lay  a  little  distance  apart  in  a  bot  dripping-pan,  and  brown 
quickly.  As  a  crust  forms  upon  them,  wash  with  beaten  white  of 
egg  to  glaze  the  tops.  Slip  a  spatula  under  them  and  transfer  to  a 
bot  diib. 

LUNCHEON. 

Ftied  Tripe.  Baked  Bggs. 

Bread  and  Butter.        Crackers  and  Cheese. 

Tea  Cakes.  Chocolate. 


pRiBD  Trips. 

Cut  cold  boiled  tripe  into  pieces  tbree  incbes  square,  and  lay 
tbem  for  half  an  bour  in  a  mixture  of  salad  oil  (a  tablespoonful), 
twice  as  much  vinegar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  roll  in  salted  flour 
or  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  dripping  or  lard.  Drain  off  the 
grease,  and 


Bakbd  Eggs. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  half  a  cupful  of  bot  milk  for 
twenty  minutes,  stir  in  a  teaspoonftil  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
a  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  savoiy  broth. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  4(69 

a  little  minced  onion,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Poor 
the  mixture  into  a  neat  pie-plate  and  set,  covered,  in  a  quick  oven. 
In  six  minutes  lift  the  cover,  break  as  many  eggs  on  the  bubbling 
surface  as  the  dish  will  hold,  sift  fiue  crumbs  on  top  and  leave  in 
the  oven  for  three  minutes  longer.     Serve  in  the  dish. 


Tea  Cakes. 

A  quart  of  prepared  flour;  an  even  cupful  of  butter;  four 
eggs  ;  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  or  mace  ,  half  cupful  of  raisins  ; 
one  heaping  cupful  of  sugar. 

Beat  eggs  light,  stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  put  with 
the  nutmeg.  Mix  well  together,  work  in  the  sifted  flour  lightly 
until  you  have  a  good  paste.  Roll  into  a  sheet  less  than  a  quarter  of. 
an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  bury  a  raisin  in  the  center  of 
each,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Eat  fresh.  Do  not  let  them  get 
too  brown  in  the  oven. 


DINNER, 

Potato  Pur6e.  Larded  Pike. 

Veal  and  Ham  Cutlets. 

Creamed  Turnips.  Potato  Souffi& 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  Baked  Roley-Poley. 

Hard  Sauce. 
Fruit.  Nuts.  Coffee. 


Potato  Puree. 

Three  cups  of  mashed  puLatocs ;  one  small  onion;  two  largr 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  cue  of  flour ;  two  quarts  of  boil 
ing  water ;  two  eggs  ;  two  stalks  of  celery  chopped ;  one  cup  of  hot 
milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  cut  parsley  ;  salt  and  pepptr« 


470 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 


Pat  potatoi  otdon  (chopped)  and  cdety  with  the  hot  water  over 
the  fire,  seasoiii  and  cook  gently  half  an  hour,  stirring  often  to 
prevent  scorching,  strain  and  rub  through  a  colander ;  return  to  the 
kettle  with  the  parsley  and  floured  butter,  and  stir  to  a  simmering 
boil,  heat  in  an  another  vessel  the  milk,  turn  upon  the  beaten  eggs, 
mix  well,  add  to  the  contents  of  the  soup-kettle ;  stir  over  the  fire 
for  one  minute,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 


Larded  Pike. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish ;  make  incisions,  crosswise,  in  the  sides 
and  put  into  each,  well  imbedded,  a  strip  of  solid  fat  salt  pork ;  lay 
in  a  dripping-pan,  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  bake, 
covered,  half  an  hour,  basting  often  with  the  liquor  in  the  pan ; 
repeat  this  at  intervals  of  five  minutes  until  the  fish  is  tender  and 
nicely  browned ;  lift  carefully  to  a  hot-water  dish ;  strain  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  browned  flour,  boil  up,  add  half  a  glass  of  claret,  and 
serve  in  a  boat.  Pass  the  potato  souffl6  with  the  fish.  Red 
snapper  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


Veal  and  Ham  Cutlets. 

Cut  enough  veal  cutlets  to  make  a  good  dish,  and  a  like  number 
of,  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham.  Corned  ham  i^  best.  Dip  both  in 
beaten  egg,  then,  in  fine  crumbs  mixed  with  salt,  pepper,  finely  cut 
parsley  and  a  dust  of  nutmeg.  Fry  in  boiling  dripping,  or  lard; 
drain,  and  arrange  in  alternate  slices  of  veal  and  ham  on  a  hot 
dish.    Garnish  with  cresses. 


Creamed  Turnips. 

Peel,  lay  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour  and  cook  tender  and 
fast  in  hot  salted  water,  drain,  pressing  well,  put  into  a  clean  ti&  or 


WINTER  BItLS  OF  FARE.  471 

porcelain  saucepan  and  beat  smooth  over  tlie  fire  witli  a  wooden 
spoon  (never  an  iron  one) ,  mixing,  as  you  go  on,  a  good  spoonful 
of  butter  and  three  spoonfuls  of  milk  or  oream  ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  The  lumps  should  be  rubbed  out  and  the  turnips  a 
smooth  pur6e. 

Potato  Souffle. 

Beat  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potato  light  and  soft  with  warm 
milk  and  a  little  butter,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  pepper  and 
salt,  &nd  turn  into  a  greased  pudding-dish ;  set  in  the  oven  until  it 
begins  to  brown,  spread  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  stiff 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  drop  tiny  bits  of  butter  on  the  top,  and 
when  this  has  colored  slightly,  take  from  the  oven.  Serve  at  once 
before  it  falls. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

To  a  can  of  tomatoes  add  a  t^aspoonful  of  minced  onion,  as 
much  white  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  crumbs ;  stew  fast  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  rub  through  a  hot  colander  into  a  deep  covered  dish. 
This  is  a  decided  improvement  on  the  usual  style  of  stewing 
tomatoes. 


Baked  Roley-Poley. 

One  quart  of  Hecker's  prepared  flour ;  two  full  tablespoonfuls  of 
lard ;  two  cups  of  milk ;  yolk  of  an  tgg ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  a 
large  cup  of  jam,  marmalade,  or  canned  (and  strained)  berries,,  well 
sweetened. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together,  beat  tne  yolk  light,  and  stir  into  the 
milk ;  chop  up  the  shortening  into  the  flour  until  well  incorporated ; 


47* 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 


wet  tbe  flour  with  the  mflk  into  a  good  dough ;  toll  out  half  an 
inch  thick,  spread  with  the  frvdu  and  roll  up  closely ;  pinch  the 
outer  edges  together  and  lay  the  roll,  the  joined  sides  downward,  in 
a  floured  baking*pan ;  bake  until  browned ,  wash  over  with  whipped 
white  of  egg,  and  send  to  table ;  eat  with  hard  sauce. 


Corn  Beef  Hash. 


No.  40. 
BRBAKPAST. 

Oranges. 


English  Muffias. 


Tea. 


Potatoes  Stewed  Whole. 


CofiM. 


CoRNBD   Beef   Hash. 

To  two  cupfuls  of  cold  corned  beef,  minced,  allow  one  and  one* 
half  of  mashed  potatoes.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  season  with 
pepper.  Put  a  cupful  of  broth  or  gravy  into  a  frying-pan,  heat  to  a 
boil  and  stir  in  the  meat  and  potato,  tossing  and  scraping  it 
toward  the  center  from  the  sides  and  bottom,  until  you  have  a  smok* 
iag  heap,  just  soft  enough  not  to  run  over  the  pan.  Stiff  hash  is 
a  culinary  abomination.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  triangles  of 
fried  bread  laid  about  the  base  of  the  heap,  points  upward.  If  you 
have  no  gravy,  put  boiling  water  into  the  pan,  mix  in  two  table^ 
spoonfuls  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of  tomato  catsup  or 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  when  it  simmers,  proceed  as  above. 


English  Muffins. 

On  baking-day,  take  a  pint  of  dough  from  the  batch  which  has 
risen  all  night ;  work  in  a  cupful  of  warm  water,  and  when  yon 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  473 

have  a  smooth,  stiffisli  batter,  beat  iu  a  couple  of  eggs.  Set  to  rise 
in  a  pitcher  near  the  fire  for  an  hour,  or  until  quite  light ;  have 
greased  niuffiu-riugs  ready  on  a  hot  griddle,  half-fill  them  with  the 
batter,  and  bake  on  both  sides,  as  you  would  griddle-cakes.  Send 
to  table  hot,  and  split  them  by  tearing  them  open.  You  can  make 
them  without  eggs,  but  they  are  not  quite  so  nice. 


Potatoes  Stewed  Whole. 

Boil,  with  the  skins  on,  the  small  potatoes  the  cook  thinks  not 
worth  the  trouble  of  peeling,  until  done  through.  Turn  oflf  the 
water,  and  dry  in  the  hot  pot  for  a  minute ;  peel  quickly,  and  drop 
in  a  saucepan  where  you  have  ready  the  sauce.  This  is  made  by 
scalding  a  cup  of  milk,  adding  one  of  boiling  water,  stirring  into  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  cut  up  in  flour,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley.  Pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  with  the  potatoes 
in  it  ten  minutes  before  pouring  out.  It  is  well  to  mellow  each 
potato,  before  putting  it  in  the  sauce,  by  pressing  it  hard  enough 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon  to  crack,  but  not  to  split  it 


LUNCHEON. 

Shrimp  Salad,  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Cheesecups. 

Crackers,  Bread,  Butter  and  Olives. 

Oatmeal  Gingerbread. 

Cocoa-theta. 


Shrimp  Salad. 
Open  a  can  of  shrimps  some  hours  before  you  want  to  use  them, 
and  keep  iu  a  cold  place.     An  hour  before  lunch-time,  cover  them 


t' 


474  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

with  vinegar  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  tablespoonfnl  of  salad  oil ; 
Wve  them  in  this  fifty  minutes,  then  arrange  in  a  broad,  cold, 
glass  dish,  saucers  or  cups  made  of  crisp  lettuce ;  put  a  tablespoon- 
fnl of  shrimps,  drained,  in  each,  scatter  pounded  ice  among  the 
leaves,  and,  as  you  serve,  pour  on  a  great  spoonful  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  for  each  person. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Yolk  of  six  eggs ;  one  cup  of  salad-oil ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar;  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  as  much  cayenne 
pepper. 

Keep  eggs,  vinegar  and  oil  on  ice  until  you  begin  to  mix  the 
dressing.  Set  a  bowl  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice ;  break  the  yolks  care- 
fully into  it,  that  not  a  drop  of  the  whites  may  mingle  with  them. 
Have  another  pan  of  ice  at  hand  in  which  the  bottles  of  vinegar  and 
oil  are  set.  .  Begin  to  beat  the  yolks  slowly  and  evenly,  and,  as  soon 
as  they  are  broken,  let  fall  one  drop  of  oil  upon  them,  each  minute, 
keeping  the  egg-beater  going  for  ten  minutes.  Then  put  in  three 
drops  each  minute,  until  the  mixture  is  a  smooth  yellow  batter,  when 
begin  to  mix  in  the  vinegar,  a  half-teaspoonful  every  two  minutes, 
alternating  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  oil,  beating  steadily  until  both 
are  used  up.  Now  go  in  salt  and  pepper.  Whip  vigorously  five 
minutes,  and  pour  into  a  glass  or  silver  pitcher.  Keep  this  on  ice 
until  the  salad  is  served. 


Oatmeal  Gingerbread. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  fine  oatmeal ;  one  tablespoonfnl  of 
butter ;  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  and  the  same  of  brown  sugar ;  one 
cup  of  sour  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  (an  even  one)  of  soda,  and  out 
of  salt,  sifted  twice  through  the  meal ;  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
and  twice  as  much  cinnamoiu 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  -  *    475 

Stir  molasses,  spice,  sugar,  and  melted  butter  until  they  are  a 
yellow-brown  cream,  add  the  milk  and  flour,  beat  hard,  and  balce  in 
small  buttered  tins.     Eat  warm. 


C0CX)A-THKTA. 

This  delicious  and  delicate  preparation  of  chocolate  can  be 
made  in  five  minutes,  and  will  be  found  a  peculiarly  agreeable 
accompaniment  to  the  wholesome  gingerbread  for  which  directions 
are  given  above. 

DINNER. 

Cod  Chowder.        Baked  Calf  ^s  Head. 

Canned  Com  Stew.  Mold  of  Potata 

Indian-Meal  Pudding. 
Fruit  CoflEee. 

Cob  Chowder. 

Three  pounds  of  fish ;  one  onion,  sliced  and  fried ;  twelve  Bos- 
ton crackers ;  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork ;  butter ;  com-starcl? ;  one 
pint  of  oysters,  chopped ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  chopped  parsley : 
pepper. 

Cut  the  cod  into  dice,  lay  a  double  handful  in  the  bottem  of  the 
Boup-pot,  on  this  strew  pork,  sliced  onion  and  pepper,  and  covei 
with  crackers.  Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  materials  are  all  in, 
cover  with  cold  water,  put  on  the  pot-lid,  and  stew  gently  until  the 
fish  IS  tender — perhaps  for  an  hour  after  the  boil  begins.  Take  out 
the  fish  and  crackers  with  a  split  spoon,  and  put  into  the  tureeu, 
setting  the  platter  in  hot  water.  Strain  the  liquot  through  a  col- 
ander  to  get  out  the  bones,  return  to  the  kettle,  and  this  to  the  fire. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  PARE-  477 

Mold  of  Potato. 

To  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potato,  allow  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  quarter  as  much  pepper.  .  Mix  up  well ;  butter  a  mold 
or  bowl  with  plain  sides,  strew  these  thickly  with  fine  crumbs,  put 
in  the  potato,  and  set  in  a  dripping-pan  of  hot  water  in  a  good  oven. 
Bake  half  an  hour  and  turn  out  carefully  on  a  heated  platter. 


Indian  Meal  Pudding. 

Three  cups  of  Indian  meal ;  one  quart  of  milk ;  three  eggs ;  fottr 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  suet ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  a  quarter-teaspoon* 
ful  of  soda,  stirred  into  the  milk. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  milk  heated  to  boiling,  stir  in  suet  and 
salt,  and  let  it  get  cold ;  then  add  the  eggs,  molasses  and  spice  and 
beat  faithfully ;  pour  iuto  a  tvell-buttered  mold,  and  steam,  or  boil, 
four  or  five  hours,  keeping  the  water  in  the  pot  or  steamer  at  a 
steady  boil  all  the  tim^.  Turn  out,  and  eat  at  once  with  hard  sauce* 


No.  41. 
BREAKFAST. 

B«ked  Sweet  Apples.  Brain  Fritters. 

Oatmeal  Griddle  Cflkc<;  witli  Maple  Syrup. 
Fruit  Coifce,         Tea. 


Baked  Sweet  Appt^es. 

Wash,  wipe  and  cut  out  the  blossom-end  of  pound  sweets,  of 
other  large  sweet  apples;  and  bake  them  until  soft,  turning^  them 
several  times  as  they  brown.  Sift  sugar  over  them  while  hot.  Tfit 
them  get  perfectly  cold,  and  eat  with  sugar  and  cream* 


47S  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FAREL 

Brain  Prittbrs. 

After  wasliing,  and  ridding  the  brains  of  fibres  and  sidn,  drop 
tbem  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
throw  into  ice-cold  water.  When  they  are  stiff"  and  white,  wipe  and 
mash  them  to  a  batter  with  a  wooden  spoon,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Beat  into  this  an  egg,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour.  Fry  a  little  in  the  boiling 
fat  before  venturing  more,  drop  in  by  the  tablespoonful,  fry  quickly, 
shake  in  a  heated  colander  to  free  them  of  fat,  and  serve  very  hot. 
They  are  nue. 

Oatmeal  Griddle  Cakes. 

One  cupfiil  of  cold  oatmeal  porridge ;  two  eggs ;  two  cupfals  of 
buttermilk,  or  sour  cream,  or  loppered  milk ;  one  tablespoonful  of 
molasses,  or  brown  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  with  half 
a  cupful  of  Graham  flour ;  one  teaspoonftil  of  salt ;  one  teaspoon- 
ftil  of  butter,  melted. 

If  you  use  cream,  you  do  not  need  this  last  ingredient.      Whip 
the  eggs,  and  beat  them  into  the  porridge,  then  salt,  sugar,  butter,  ' 
milk,  lastly,  the  Graham  flour.     Beat  and  stir  for  two  minutes  and 
bake  on  the  griddle. 

LUNCHEON. 

I 

Chicken  or  Veal  Fondu. 
Baked  Beans.  Brown  Bread. 

Walnut  Cake.  Chocolate. 


Chicken  or  Veal  Fondu. 

Two  cupfuls  of  finely  minced  meat ;  one  cupful  of  milk,  and 
the  9ame  of  dry  crumbs ;  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  three 
eggs ;  bit  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  in  the  milk ;  pepper  and  salt ; 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE-  479 

stir  the  crumbs  into  the  hot  milk,  and  cook  in  a  farina-kettle  to  a 
lumpless,  smoking  batter.  Add  the  butter,  turn  into  a  bowl,  and 
beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Set  where  it  will  cool 
fast.  When  nearly  cold,  add  the  seasoning,  whipped  eggs  and  minced 
meat.  Mix  thoroughly,  beating  high  and  fast,  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish.  Bake  in  a  good  oven,  keeping  it  covered  for 
half  an  hour.  Brown  on  the  upper  grating,  and  serve  before  it  falls. 
If  you  have  gravy  left  from  the  roast,  heat,  and  send  it  around 
with  the  fondu. 

Baked    Beans. 

Soak  a  quart  of  beans  all  night.  In  tne  morning,  cover  them 
with  boiling  water,  and  set  at  the  side  of  the  range  until  swollen 
and  soft,  but  not  broken.  If  you  have  no  bean-pot,  put  them  into 
a  deep  bake-dish ;  thrust  a  half  pound  "chunk"  of  salt  pork,  par- 
boiled, and  scored  on  top,  down  into  the  beans ;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  as  much  made-mustard  and  a  tablespoonful  of  molasses, 
to  them,  with  enough  hot  water  to  cover  them  nearly — fit  a  top  on 
dish,  or  pot,  and  set  in  a  slow  oven.  Bake  six  hours,  peeping  at 
them  three  or  four  times  to .  see  if  they  need  more  boiling  water. 
If  so,  supply  it.  For  the  last  half-hour,  cook  them  faster  and 
uncovered.  This  is  the  genuine  New  England  dish,  and  cannot  be 
improved  upon. 

Brown  Bread. 

One-half  cup  of  Graham  flour ;  one  cup,  each,  of  rye  flour  and 

Indian  meal ;  one  cup  of  milk ;  one-half  cup  of  molasses ;  one  even 

teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  three  times 

with  meal  and  flour ;  one  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

Put  the  flour  and  meal,  sifted  with  salt  and  soda,  into  a  bowl. 

Mix  milk,  lard  and  molasses  together,  warm  slightlyj  and  add  to 


WINTER   BILLS  OF  FARE.  48k 

tmttefy  cnt  up,  and  mbbed  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared 
flour.  Boil  two  minutes  more,  and  pour  out.  It  will  be  found 
deliglitful,  altliougli  "a  soup  niaigre."  The  excellence  of  such 
depends  much  upon  seasoning  aud  smoothness.  They  are  too  often 
watery,  insipid  and  lumpy. 

Steamed  Chicken,  Stuffed. 

Clean  and  dress  as  for  roasting.  Make  a  stuffing  of  crumbs 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  then,  mix  with  a  dosen 
oysters,  each  cut  into  three  pieces.  Bind  legs  and  wings  to  the 
body  with  tape,  and  put  into  a  steamer  with  a  closely-fitting  lid.  If 
you  have  no  steamer  (which  is  a  pity)  put  the  fowl  into  a  tin  pail 
with  a  good  top,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to 
a  boil,  and  if  the  fowl  be  full-grown,  cook  steadily  for  two  hours 
after  the  boil  begins.  Open  the  steamer  at  the  end  of  the  second 
hour  for  the  first  time,  and  try  the  breast  with  a  fork.  If  tender, 
remove  the  chicken  to  a  hot-water  dish,  and  keep  covered  while  you 
make  the  gravy.  Strain  the  gravy  from  the  steamer  or  pail  into  a 
saucepan ;  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  four  of  oyster-liquor 
(also  strained) ,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  up  in  three  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  cream,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  quickly  a  beaten  egg^  season  to  taste,  and  pour  some  of 
it  over  the  fowl,  the  rest  into  a  boat.  This  is  so  savory  a  dish  that 
it  should  be  better  known. 


Oyster  Plant  Fritters. 

Scrape  the  skin  carefully  from  the  roots,  and  grate  them  into  a 
oatter  made  of  one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  prepared  flour,  and 
one  beaten  egg.  Unless  the  roots  are  grated  directly  into  the  mi* 
ture,  they  darken  immediately.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  try 


4^3  WINTER  BILtS  Ot^  FARE. 

a  littleof  the  batter  in  the  hissing-hot  dripping  before  risking  mor6. 
If  too  thin,  add  flour  cautiously.  If  too  solid,  put  in  more  milk. 
Drain  off  the  fat  by  shaking  each  fritter  vigorously  in  the  split 
spoon  as  you  take  it  out  of  the  frying-pan.    Eat  while  very  hot 


ScAixopED  Squash. 

The  Hubbard,  or  green  winter  squashes,  are  best  for  this  dish 
Scrape  out  the  seeds,  pare  off  the  shell,  and  leave  in  cold  salt  and 
water  for  one  hour ;  cook  in  hot  water,  a  little  salt,  until  tender. 
Mash  well,  and  let  it  cool.  When  quite  cold,  whip  into  it  a  table 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  corn-starch  wet  up  in  half  a  cup  of  milk 
(for  a  large  cupful  of  squash),  three  whipped  eggs,  pepper  and  salt. 
.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish ;  strew  thickly  with 
fine  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Sponge  Cake  Custard. 

I  know  of  no  other  use  to  which  baker's  sponge  cake  can  be  put  that 
brings  such  satisfaction  to  the  consumer  as  to  make  it  into  this  pud- 
ding. Buy  a  stale  card  of  sponge  cake ;  lay  on  a  stone  china  platter ; 
pour  around — not  over — it  a  hot  custard  made  of  a  pint  of  milk,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  boiled  together 
until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Season  with  vanilla,  coat  the 
top  of  the  cake  thickly  with  jelly  or  jam,  and  on  this  spread  a 
meringue  of  the  whites,  beaten  stiff  with  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sujar.  Set  in  the  oven  over  a  dripping-pan  of  hot  water  until  the 
meringue  is  slightly  colored.     Eat  cold. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  4«i 

No.  42. 
BREAKFAST. 

Rice  Porridge.  Stewed  Eels. 

Gems.  Potato  Balls. 

Thl  Coffee. 


Rice  Porridge. 

One  cup  of  raw  rice ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  salted ;  one  cap 
of  milk ;  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  .; 

Soak  the  rice  in  cold  water  one  hour,  drain,  and  put  over  the  fire 
in  the  boiling  water,  cook  soft,  shake  up  from  the  bottom  now  and 
then,  pour  in  the  milk  heated  to  scalding,  simmer  ten  minutes,  add 
the  beaten  whites,  cook  just  one  minute,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dishr 
Bat  with  sugar  and  cream.     It  is  delicate  and  nourishing. 


Stewbd  Ebls. 

Two  pounds  of  eels ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley ; 
pepper  and  salt ;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Skin  and  clean  the  eels,  carefully  removing  all  the  fat,  cut 
neatly  through  the  backbone  into  pieces  two  inches  long.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  but  do  not  color  it  before  laying  the  pieces  of 
eel  in  it.  Sprinkle  with  onions  and  parsley,  cover  closely  and  set  in 
a  vessel  of  cold  water.  Cook  gently  over  a  steady  fire  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  after  the  boil  begins.  The  eels  should  be  tender,  but  not 
boiled  to  rags.  Remove  them  with  a  split  spoon  to  a  hot*water  dish, 
stir  into  the  liquor  left  in  the  saucepan,  peppo",  salt  smd  flour,  the 
latter  wet  up  with  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  quick  boil,  and  pour  ovet 
the  eels. 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  485 

Potato  Sai.ad. 
Rub  a  cupful  of  mashed  potato  through  a  colander ;  mix  with  it 
half  a  cupful  of  shred  white  cabbage,  prepared  as  for  cold  slaw  j 
i:wo  tablespooufuls  of  chopped  cucumber,  or  gherkin  pickle  (or  one 
tablespoouftd  of  minced  pickled  onion)  and  the  pounded  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Stir  and  incorporate  the  ingredients  faith- 
fully. Make  a  dressing  as  follows  :  Into  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
vinegar  stir  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonfol  of 
sugar,  one  beaten  raw  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet  with  cold 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  celery  essence ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ; 
one  half-teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Cook  and  stir  until  you  have  a 
smooth  cream,  and  mix  hot  with  the  salad.  Toss  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Set  in  a  cold  place,  or  on  the  ice  until  wanted.  It  will 
be  liked  by  all  who  eat  it.  Pass  crackers — ^slightly  warmed — with  it. 


\ 
* 


Crullers. 

Six  eggs ;  one  half  pound  of  butter ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar ;  flour  to  roll  out  in  a  good  dough  that  will  not  adhere  to 
board  and  fingers ;  mace  and  cinnamon,  half  teasiK>onful  of  each ; 
brown  sugar  and  butter. 

Mix,  and  work  in  flour,  roll  thin,  cut  into  shapes  and  drop  one 
into  a  deep  frying-pan  of  boiling  lard.  If  it  rises  quickly  and  doe$ 
not  brown  too  fast,  put  in  as  many  as  can  be  cooked  without  crowd- 
ing, taking  them  out  with  a  split  spoon  when  they  are  plump  aad 
of  a  golden-brown  color.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  while 
warm.    They  are  delicious. 

Cafe  au  latt. 
Strain  strong  hot  coflee  into  a  hot  urn  or  coffee-pot,  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  scalding  milk,  throw  a  thick  cloth  or  a  "  cozy  " 
over  the  urn  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes  before  filling  the  cops. 


4S(  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

DINNER. 

Farina  Sonp,  Baked  Halibut. 

Ragout  of  Mutton.  Cauliflower  au  gratin. 

Hominy  Croquettes.  Cocoanut  Custard.  Light  Cakes 

Fruit.  Coffee. 


Farina  Soup. 

Heat  and  strain  four  cups  of  soup-stock  of  any  kind,  and  bring 
it  to  a  boil.  Scald  two  cups  of  milk,  beat  three  eggs  light,  and  add 
to  them  gradually  the  hot  milk.  Heat  and  stir  until  the  sugarless 
custard  begins  to  thicken,  when  turn  into  a  tureen.  Add  the  scalding 
stock,  and  stir  in,  finally,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
grated.  Pass  grated  cheese  with  it  for  those  who  would  like  to  have 
more.  You  can  buy  real  Parmesan  cheese  ready  grated  iu  bottles 
from  the  best  p^Dcers. 


Bakbd  Haubut. 

Buy  the  tisn  in  a  thick,  solid  cut,  and  lay  in  strong  «alt-and- 

water  for  an  hour  at  least.     Wipe  all  over,  cut  the  skin  on  top  criss- 

prasi^  just  i^eAching  the  flesh  below,  and  lay  in  a  dripping-pan. 

JDaali  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  over  it,  and  cook  twelve  minutefi  for 
each  pound.  Have  ready  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  dissolved  iu 
hot  water,  mingled  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  baste  often. 
When  a  fork  penetrates  easily  the  thickest  part  of  the  fish,  take  it 
up  and  keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  gravy  a  teaspoonful  of  Han 
vey's  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  tablespoon ful  of  butter  rubbed 
in  two  great  spoonfuls  of  browned  flour.  Should  this  make  the 
gravy  too  thick,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  3oil,  and  stt^m  into 
sauce-boat 


/ 
\ 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  487 

Ragout  of  Mutton. 
Coarser  chops  than  those  sold  as  "French,"  will  do  for  this  dish. 

m 

Heat  half  a  ctipful  of  clarified  dripping,  or  as  much  butter,  in  a  frying^ 
pan  ;  put  in  half  of  an  onion  sliced,  cook  three  minutes,  and  lay  in 
the  chops  dredged  with  flour.  Fry  quickly  until  they  begin  to 
brown  nicely ;  take  up  with  a  split  spoon,  and  put  into  a  saucepan, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered 
thyme ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  put  a  close  lid  on  the  saucepan,  and 
cook  very  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  fall 
from  the  bones.  Lift  it,  piece  by  piece,  to  a  hot-water  dish  ;  skim 
the  gravy,  pepper  and  salt  it,  and  add  half  a  can  of  gpreen  peas  which 
have  been  drained  and  laid  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Stew  imtil 
soft,  rub  through  a  colander ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in 
browned  flour ;  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  meat. 


Cauliflower  au  gratin. 
Wash  carefully  ;  tie  up  in  mosquito-netting,  and  boil  thirty  min- 
utes  in  hot  salted  water.  Undo  the  netting,  and  lay  the  cauliflower, 
blossom  upward,  in  a  pudding-dish.  Pour  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter 
over  it,  strew  with  dry  crumbs,  and  brown  lightly  on  the  upper 
grating  of  the  oven.  Send  round  with  it  drawn  butter  in  which  has 
been  squeezed  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 


Hominy  Croquettes. 
Rub  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  "  small "  hominy  smooth  with  a  table- 
spoonful of  soft  butter.  Wlien  you  have  worked  them  well  together, 
add  a  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Beat 
up  well,  flour  your  hands  and  make  into  croquettes,  rolling  each 
over  and  over  on  a  thickly  floured  dish.  Set  aside  for  some  hours  in 
a  cold  place,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  grease  ia 
a  colander,  and  serve  the  croquettes  on  a  hot  flat  dish. 


r 


488  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARB. 

CocoANUT  Custard. 

Grate  a  cocoanut,  and  set  aside,  while  you  heat  a  quart  of  milk 
in  a  farina-kettle  (dropping  in  a  tiny  bit  of  soda).  Add  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  pour  the  sweetened  milk  upon  six  beaten  eggs,  and  leave  over 
the  fire  until  just  lukewarm.  Then  season  with  vanilla,  or  bitter 
almond,  stir  in  the  cocoanut,  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish, 
and  set  at  once  in  the  oven  to  bake  to  a  yellow-brown.  •  £at  cold 
with  light  cakes. 

No.  48. 
BRBAKPA8T. 

Golden  Mush. 
A  Winter  Hen's  Nest.  Gtaham  Biscuit 

Potatoes  au  Maitre  d'^ Hotel. 
Fruit  Tea.  Coflee. 


Golden  Mush. 

Scald  a  cup  of  granulated  yellow  meal  with  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  salted,  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  when  it  boils,  stir  in 
the  soaked  meal.  Cook,  stirring  often,  for  one  hour.  Bat  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

A  Winter  Hen^s  Nest. 

Boil  eight  eggs  hard,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  When 
cool,  take  off  the  shells  carefully,  divide  the  whites,  and  extract  the 
yolks.  Mash  them  to  powder,  and  mix  with  twice  as  much  minced 
chicken,  turkey,  duck,  veal,  lamb,  or  ham.  Make  into  egg-shaped 
.balls  when  yon  have  worked  a  spoonful  of  butter  into  the  paste, 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARB.  4^9 

season  it,  and  heap  on  a  hot-water  dish.  Cut  the  whites  into  fine 
shreds,  arrange  them  about  the  balls  to  simulate  straw,  and  pour  a 
cupful  of  good  gravy,  scalding  hot,  over  all.  The  dish  needs  no 
other  cooking,  if  there  is  boiling  water  under  the  platter.  If  not,  B%t 
in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

Graham  Biscuit. 

One  pint  of  Graham  flour,  and  half  as  much  rye ;  one  heaping 
teblespoonful  of  butter,  and  an  even  one  of  lard ;  two-and-a-half 
cups  of  lukewarm  milk,  as  fresh  as  possible ;  one .  tablespoonful  of 
sugai*. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  baking- 
powder,  sifted  twice  through  the  flour.  Rub  butter  and  lard  into  the 
salted  and  sifted  flour,  stir  the  sugar  into  the  milk,  and  wet  the  flour 
into  a  soft  dough.  Handle  lightly,  roll  out  with  a  few  strokes  into  a 
sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  cakes,  prick  them,  and  bake  in  a 
steady  oven.     They  are  good,  warm  or  cold. 


Potatoes  au  Maitre  d^ Hotel. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  dice,  pepper  and  salt  them, 
heat  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  boil,  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  When  it  thickens, 
put  in  the  potatoes,  and  simmer  until  they  are  hot  all  through ; 
remove  from  the  range,  stir  in  quickly  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  as  much  grated  lemon-peel  as  will  lie  on  a  silver  halj 
Sexrehot* 


LUNCHEON. 

How  to  use  the  last  of  "  That  Mutton." 

Cheese  Bars.  Bread  and  Butter.  Pickles, 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  Soft  Raisiu  Gingerbread* 


/ 


490  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

How  TO  UsB  THa  Last  of  "That  Mutton.'^ 

Cut  every  bit  from  the  bone,  and  mince  it  rather  finely. 
Have  ready  a  cupful  of  good  gravy.  You  can  cut  the  meat 
from  the  bones  early  in  the  day,  crack,  and  make  the  broth 
from  them  if  you  have  no  other.  If  you  have  half  a  can  of  mush- 
rooms in  the  pantry,  mince,  and  add  them  to  the  mutton  ;  also  a 
very  little  onion  pickle  chopped.  Season  the  gravy  highly,  and  wet 
the  mince  with  it.  Put  a  layer  of  fine  crumbs  in  a  greased  pudding- 
dish,  pour  in  the  chopped  meat,  sift  more  crumbs  over  it,  cover 
closely,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  gravy  bubbles  up  through  it. 
Draw  to  the  oven-door,  and  pour  on  the  surface  four  or  five  eggs, 
beaten  light,  then  mixed  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Drop 
minute  bits  of  butter  on  the  tgg^  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  shut  up 
until  the  omelette  crust  is  set.     Serve  at  once  in  the  pudding  dish. 


Chbbsh  Bars. 
Make  these  on  "  pastry  day  "  from  the  pieces  left  over  from  pies. 
Cut  strips,  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  wide.  Cover  the  upper 
side  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and  the  merest  dust  of  cayenne, 
fold  the  pastry  lengthwise  over  this,  sift  cheese  on  the  top,  and  bake 
quickly.     Bat  hot. 

SCAI.I/3PKD  Tomatoes. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pie-plate  with  fine  crumbs,  salted 
and  peppered;  drain  the  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  season  them 
with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion,  minced  very  finely.  Pour  this  into  the  pie-dish,  and  cover 
with  a  thick  coat  of  crumbs.  Stick  dots  of  butter  on  this, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  then 
brown. 


•^^    mH 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARB-  491 

Soft  Raisin  Gingbrbrbad. 

Ibf  One  cup,  each,  of  sugar,  butter,  molasses,  and  sour  cream,  01 

I  jj;  milk — cream  is  best ;  one  scant  cup  of  seeded  raisins  ;  one  teaspoon* 

:~  ful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon ;  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger ;  one 

rounded  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  twice  with  four  full  cups  of  flour ; 

■ 

two  eggs. 

Rub  butter  aud  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  the  molasses  and 
spice,  working  it  until  it  is  several  shades  lighter  than  when  you 
began.  Add  the  eggs  whipped  light,  the  milk,  at  last  the  flour. 
Stir  well,  put  in  the  misins  dredged  thickly,  and  beat  two  minutes 
upward.  Bake  in  shallow  '^  cards  "  or  in  patty-pans.  Eat  waroi 
with  cheese. 


DINNER. 

Vegetable  Family  Soup. 

Scalloped  Oysters.        Stewed  Duck.        Glazed  Potatoes. 

Canned  Peas. 
Suet  Pudding.  J^Uy  Sauce. 

Fruit  CoflFee. 

Vrgbtablk  Family  Soup. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  into  dice ;  one  onion ;  one  large 
carrot;  one  turnip;  quarter  of  a  cabbage  heart;  two  fair-sized 
potatoes ;  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  two  stalks  of  celery ; 
pepper  and  salt;  three  quarts  of  cold  water;  browned  flour. 

Put  the  *)eef  over  the  fire  in  the  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly 
three  hours  Au  hour  before  taking  it  from  the  fire,  prepare  the 
vegetables.  vShred  the  cabbage,  cut  turnips,  celery,  carrots  and 
potatoes  into  dice ;  slice  the  onion,  and  fry  it  brown.  Cook  half 
an  hour  in  boiling  salted  water,  all  except  the  onion.     Drain  the 


499  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

water  off,  and  throw  away.  By  this  time  the  meat  should  be 
tender^  but  not  in  shreds.  Add  the  parboiled  vegetables  and  onion 
to  it  and  the  broth,  put  in  the  parsley ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Cook  all  for  twenty  minutes,  slowly  stir  in  a  great  spoonful  of 
browned  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  boil  up,  and  pour  out. 


Scalloped  Oysters. 
Put  a  layer  of  cracker-crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish, pepper  and  salt,  and  cover  with  raw  oysters,  season  these 
with  bits  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  pour  on  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  milk  and  oyster  liquor ;  more  crumbs,  and  more  oysters,  until 
your  dish  is  full,  the  top-layer  being  crumbs,  dotted  with  butter, 
and  wet  with  milk.  Do  not  make  the  cracker  strata  too  thick ;  give 
the  oyster  honor  above  the  "  scallop ; "  bake,  covered,  until  the 
moisture  bubbles  to  the  surface,  then  brown  lightly.  Serve  with 
sliced  lemon,  bread  and  butter. 


Stewed  Duck. 

Joint  neatlyi  cover  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  with  thin  slices  of 
0alt  pork ;  pepper,  and  lay  in  pieces  of  duck,  another  layer  of  salt 
pork  on  the  top,  and  cover  with  sliced  onion ;  fit  on  a  close  lid,  set 
at  the  back  of  the  range,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  An  old 
duck  will  require  four  hours,  but  will  be  good  when  conquered.  Take 
up  the  meat,  and  keep  hot.  Strain  the  gravy ;  add  a  little  powdered 
sage,  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  currant-jelly  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour.     Boil  up  sharply,  and  pour  over  the  duck. 


Glazed  Potatoes. 

Peel,  then  boil  whole ;  dry  o£F  at  the  back  of  the  range,  lay  in 
a  dripping-pan,  salt,  butter  liberally,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven, 
boating  with  butter,  from  time  to  time. 


WINTER  BILLS  OP  PARB.  401 

Cannkd  Pbas. 

I  Get  tlie  best  Prench  peas.  Empty  the  can  two  hours  before  oook« 
ing  them,  drain  off,  and  throw  away  the  liquid,  and  lay  the  peoa  in 
ice-cold  water,  slightly  salted.  When  you  are  ready  .to  cook  them, 
put  them  over  the  fire  in  boiling  salted  water^  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.    Drain  well,  butter  and  season. 


SuwP  Pudding. 

Three  cups  of  flour ;  half  a  cup  of  powdered  suet ;  two  cups  of 
sour  milk ;  one  rounded  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  twice  with  the 
flour ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  half  a  cup  of  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped. 

Put  the  flour,  sifted  with  salt  and  soda,  into  a  bowl ;  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle,  and  pour  in  the  milk  gradually.  Lastly,  add 
suet  and  raisins,  mixed  together  and  dredged  with  flour.  Boil  or 
steam  in  a  buttered  mold  for  three  hours.    Eat  with  jelly  sauoe. 


JioxT  Saucb. 

Dilute  half  a  cup  of  currant  jelly  with  a  cup  of  boiling  water; 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  double  the  quantity  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Set  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  an  even  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  again,  and  set  in  hot  water  until 
lieeded. 


No.    44. 
BRBAKPA8T. 

Farina.         Salt  Mackerel  with  White  Sauce.         Stewed  Potatoei. 

Qnidc  BiBcoit  Cold  Bread. 

Butter.  Coflbe.  Tea.  FmiL 


494  WINTER  BILI^  OF  FARB. 

Fasima. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  and  the  same  of  boiling  water ;  four  heaping 
tmblespoonfdls  of  farina ;  half  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt ;  a  tiny  bit  of 
soda  in  the  milk. 

Heat  the  water  in  a  farina  kettle,  and  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the 
ftrina  wet  np  with  the  milk.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
and  beating  faithfully.  At  the  last,  put  into  a  clean  Dover  egg- 
beater  and  give  a  dozen  whirls  before  pouring  into  a  deep  dish. 
Bat  with  mUk  and  sugar. 


Salt  Macexkkl  wtth  WRim  Saijcs. 

Soak  the  fish  all  night  in  oold  water ;  wash  it  well  with  a  whisk 
broom  to  get  off  salt  and  loose  scales,  and  lay  in  boiling  water ;  cook 
gently  for  twenty-five  minutes  ;  drain,  and  lift  carefully  to  a  hot 
dish.  Have  ready  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  in  which  has  been  stirred 
atablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  flour.  Beat  into  this  the 
white  of  an  egg,  whipped  stiff,  boil  and  stir  for  one  minute,  seajon 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  fisK 


Quick  Biscuit. 

Sift  a  quart  of  Steven's  Imperoyal  Flour  into  a  bowl,  rub  in  a 
hciaping  tablespoonful  of  butter — ^mix  up  quickly  with  milk — or 
water,  if  more  convenient — into  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  with  few 
and  rapid  strokM,  into  a  sheet  nearly  half  an  inch  thiek,  cut  with 
a  bisouit  cutter  into  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Thqr 
ate  exceedingly  nice.  ^^^ 


WmXBR  BILLS  OP  FARJS.  495 

Stewed  Potatoes. 

Heat  a  cup  of  milk  to  scalding ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonfhl  of  but« 
tcr  cut  up  in  a  rounded  teaspooriful  of  com-starcli ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley ;  boil  one  minute, 
and  drop  in  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice.  Simmer  gently 
until  the  potatoes  are  hot  all  through  and  serve^  A  good  way  0/ 
using  "  left  over  "  boiled  or  baked  potatoes. 


LUNCHEON. 

Veal  and  Macaroni  Scallop. 
Cheese  Fondu.  Bread  and  Butten 

Baked  Sweet  Apples  and  Cake. 


Veal  and  Macaroni  Scallop. 

If  you  have  no  cold  boiled  or,  baked  macaroni  left  from  yesterday's 
dinner,  boil  a  quarter-pound  until  tender ;  drain,  and  cool  it  quickly  to 
make  it  the  more  crisp;  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  half-inch 
lengths.  In  another  vessel  chop  about  a  pound  of  cold  boiled, 
or  roast  veal ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  curryi 
a  pinch  of  lemon  peel.  Into  a  buttered  bake-dish  put  a  layer  of  mac- 
aroni, sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  wet  with  the  milk ;  cover 
this  with  a  stratum  of  the  chopped  meat,  dot  with  bits  of  butter, 
and  proceed  thus  until  your  materials  are  all  used  up.  When  all 
are  in,  smooth  the  top  layer,  which  should  be  of  meat ;  butter  well, 
cover  with  two  beaten  eggs  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  teaspoonful 
of  curry  wet  with  cream ;  strew  profusely  with  fine  crumbs,  cover, 
and  set  in  a  good  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  heated  through^ 
when  brown  quickly  on  the  upper  grating. 


4^6  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FAPIT. 

Chsksb  Fokdo. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  milk;  three  beaten  eggs ;  a  cuoful  of  dry,  grated 
cheese ;  one  rounded  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  very  fine  and  dry ;  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ;  half  a  teaspoouful  of  salt,  and  half 
as  much  pepper ;  bit  of  soda,  the  size  of  a  pea,  stirred  into  the  milk. 

Set  the  crumbs  to  soak  in  the  milk ;  mix  with  this,  when  it  is  a  soft 
paste,  the  eggs,  butter,  seasoning,  finally,  the  cheese ;  beat  hard  and 
fast, 
bake 


cayei 
mncl 


V 

knife 
into 
nntil 
sjrru; 
covei 
appl< 
•ym; 
hotc 
hour 
apph 
weU 


Gral 


"  WINTER  BILI^S  OP  PARE.  497 

Russian  Soup. 

Make  a  good  dear  soup  by  covering  two  pounds  of  lein  beef  and 
one  of  veal  (all  chopped)  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
slowly  boiling  it  down  to  half  the  quantity  of  liquor.  Salt  and  pep- 
per and  leave  the  meat  in  until  cold.  Skim  o£f  all  the  fat,  strain 
out  the  meat  without  pressing  it ;  color  with  a  tablespoonfol  of 
caramel  made  by  burning  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar  in  a  cup^  then 
adding  as  much  boiling  water.  Heat  slowly  to  the  boil,  and  pour 
into  the  tureen.  Lay  on  the  surface  six  or  eight  nicely-poached 
eggs,  and  senre  one  with  each  plateful  of  soup.  A  glass  of  wine 
improves  the  flavor. 

Salmon  Pudding  with  Lxmon  Saucs. 

One  can  of  salmon ;  three  eggs ;  a  scant  cup  of  fine  crumbs ; 
tliree  tablespoonfals  of  melted  butter ;  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper;  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  peel.  . 

Drain  the  fish  dry  (setting  aside  the  liquor)  and  mince  it  finely. 
Mix  with  butter,  crumbs,  seasoning,  and  beat  in  the  eggs.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  mold  with  a  tight  top,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  hot  water, 
which  keep  at  a  fast  boil  for  one  hour.  The  water  should  not  rise 
over  the  top  of  the  mold.  Dip  the  latter  into  cold  water  to  loosen 
the  contents  from  the  sides  and  turn  out  the  pudding  upon  a  hot 
platter.  The  sauce  must  be  ready  to  pour  over  it  when  this  is  done. 
Mix  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoonfals  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  pinch  of  grated  peel  and  the  same  of  powdered  mace,  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Heat  to  scalding  by  setting  it  in  hot  water  over 
the  fire,  then  pour  on  two  whipped  eggs,  beating  in  hard.  Pour 
upon  the  pudding. 

RoASTSD  Rabbits. 

Skin,  clean  carefully,  and  fill  with  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs  and  fat 
pork  chopped  very  fine,  with  seasoning  to  taste.     Some  insist  upon 


r 

/ 


I 

t 


498  WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

adding  minced  onion.  Sew  up  the  rabbits  and  cover  with  thin 
slices  of  fat  pork  bound  on  with  pack  thread.  Roast  longer  than 
you  would  fowls  of  the  same  weight — say  two  ininutes  more  for 
each  pound.  Baste  freely,  at  the  last,  mingling  a  little  vinegar 
with  the  dripping.  Unbind  the  strings,  remove  the  crisp  pork  and 
draw  out  the  thread  from  the  rabbits.  Lay  the  pork  around  them 
in  a  hot  dish.  Thicken  the  strained  gravy  with  browned  flour,  boil 
tip,  and  send  to  table  in  a  boat 


Potatoes  au  Milan. 

Whip  mealy  boiled  potatoes  to  powder  with  a  fork ;  add  enough 
butter  and  milk  to  make  a  creamy  paste,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  At  the  last  whip  in  the  stiffly-frothed  whites. 
Heap  on  a  well-buttered  pie-plate,  wash  over  with  melted  butter,  and 
brown  lightly  on  the  top  grating  of  a  quick  oven.  Slip  a  spatula 
milder  the  mound|  and  lift  carefully  to  a  heated  platter. 


Cold  Slaw. 

Shred  a  hard  white  cabbage  with  a  sharp  knife  (never  chop  it). 
Put  into  an  ice-bowl  just  before  dinner,  and  cover  with  this  dress- 
ing, stirring  and  tossing  with  a  silver  fork: — Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
raw  eggs  stiff,  adding  gradually  three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  and 
when  the  mixture  is  thick,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  of  salt, 
half  as  much  made  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  four  table* 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Mix  the  dressing  in  a  bowl  set  in  ice  or 
mow* 

OrAHAM  F&mT  PUDDXMTG. 

Onft  and  a  half  cups  of  Graham  flour ;  two  eggs ;  half  a  cup 
•f  aiilk;  half  a  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet;  a  cup  of  currants  (wdl 


WINTER  BILLS  OF  FARE.  499 

wm«hecl)  and  seeded  raisins,  mixed ;  lialf  a  cup  of  best  molasses ; 
a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  mace  mixed ;  a  teaspoonfnl  of  salt, 
ind  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  into  the  milk. 

Warm  molasses,  suet  and  spices  slightly  together,  and  stir  hard 
until  cool ;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  milk,  salt,  fionr,  and  lastly  the 
fruit  well  dredged  with  flour ;  beat  up  well,  poor  into  a  buttered 
mold  and  boil  or  steam  for  nearly  three  hoars.  Turn  ont  and  sat 
hot 

Hard  Saucb. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  eight  of  powdered  sugax ; 
fiothed  white  of  an  egg ;  nutmeg  ;  half  a  glass  of  wine. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  to  feathery  lightness  ;  add  wine,  spice, 
then  the  white  of  the  egg,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 

(Bnd  op  Mbkus.) 


The  Christmas  Dinner. 

IN  «nuunentmg  the  taUe,  the  march  of  scsthetic  taste  (or  &sliioti) 
has,  without  so  much  as  "  by-yonr-leave,"  swept  from  oar  fes- 
tive boards,  and  banished  to  attic  and  the  rubbish-shelves  of 
closets,  the  china  and  majolica  "flower-pieces"  which  were 
lately  our  innocent  pride.  Most  practical  housewives,  especially 
those  of  moderate  incomes,  deprecate  the  innovation  of  center-cloths 
of  linen  embroidered  with  bright  silks,  or  squares  and  ovals  of  vel- 
vet and  plush  on  which  the  flower-stand  is  set 

Better  than  this  is  the  simple  mode  of  arranging  ferns  and  blos- 
soms in  an  old-fashioned  china  bowl,  or  one  that  looks  as  if  it  had 
come  &om  a  great-graadmother*s  cupboard,  or  in  a  glass  dish  with- 
ont  feet  or  stem. 

The  flowers  should  have  long  and  real  stalks,  and  be  set  in  the 
water  loosely  with  due  regard  to  gracefully  careless  group- 
ings. The  day  of  rose-buds,  orange-blossoms  and  japonicas,  tied 
with  wire  and  bound  into  the  stumpy  formality  of  brooms,  has  gone 
by  together  with  the  close  rows  of  leafless  blooms  packed  into  banks 
and  pillows,  and  crowding  straight-sided  glass  shapes,  like  the  forms 
one  sees  in  an  undertaker's  window. 

A  low  dish  of  ferns,  scarlet  geraniums  and  white  carnations, 
cnpatoria,  or  other  snowy  flower,  having  for  a  base  a  round  mirror 


■    ai^ri a^^rv^VT^i^M^^^^^pav  ■■■  ■  ^— — -■••^^^ 


THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER.  901 

spon  wbich  some  stray  leaves  and  blossoms  liave  fallen,  as  by  acci- 
dent, is  all  elegant  ornament  for  a  Christmas  dinner. 

Evergreens,  snob  as  were  wreathed  about  pictures,  window  and 
ioor  frames,  are  not  amenable  to  the  requirements  of  the  occasion, 
being  hard  and  stijBf  in  form  and  in  color  too  uniform. 

For  it  should  be  remembered  that  Christmas  is  not  like  Thanloh 
pving.  a  national  feast  of  the  season.  The  emotions  that  recur 
with  its  coming  belong  to  the  whole  world  and  to  all  time.  To 
crown  the  day  aright  in  view  of  the  event  it  commemorates,  we 
should  bring  richer  gifts  than  those  which  symbolize  our  gratitude 
for  the  ingathering  of  the  harvest.  If  there  is  but  one  flower  in 
bloom  among  the  house-planta  on  this  glad  morning,  let  it  be  culled 
to  embellish  our  feast 

Let  raw  oysters  be  an  introductory  course.  Open  these  an  how 
before  they  are  to  be  eaten,  and  set  them  on  the  ice.  Wash  the 
shells,  and  put  them  likewise  in  the  ice-box.  « 

Unless  you  have  oyster*plates  with  cavities  prepared  for  the 
bivalves,  serve  them  upon  these  cooled  half-shells,  and  not  on  a  flat 
surface,  where  they  will  slide  about  and  leak  all  over  the  china. 
Arrange  six  shells,  an  oyster  within  each,  on  a  dessert  plate,  the 
narrow  part  of  the  shells  inward,  and  meeting  in  the  oenter  where  a 
quarter  of  lemon  is  laid. 

Pass  oyster  or  cream  crackers  in  addition  to  the  aqnaxes  or  strips 
of  bread  already  on  the  napkins. 

No  minor  table-fashion  is  more  sensible  than  the  custom  of 
keeping  pepper  in  small  silver  vessels  of  fanciful  shapes,  such  as 
owls,  monkeys,  etc.,  with  pierced  covers.  One  of  these  articles  is 
Iwithin  reach  of  every  hand. 

The  disappearance  of  the  clumsy  and  always  remote  ^^  castor^ 
is  a  joy  to  those  who  remember  the  insipidity  of  viands  fin:  which 


?oa  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 


salt,  vinegar  and  pepper  did  not  reach  him  until  the  meal  was  nearly 

concluded. 

Mock-turtle  soup  comes  with  grateful  piquancy  and  generous  | 

richness  to  the  lovers  of  good  living  on  a  mid-winter  gala-day  when 
there  is  plenty  of  time  for  digestion,  and  light  hearts  to  aid  in  the 
assimilation. 

Deviled  lobster,  made  comparatively  innocuous  by  the  use  of 
cayenne,  instead  of  black  pepper,  and  served  attractively  in  silver 
scallop-shells  if  you  have  them — ^in  clam-shells,  if  you  have  not — 
follows  harmoniously  in  line.  These  are  eaten  with  the  fork  alone, 
as  were  the  oysters. 

Withhold  vegetables  until  the  next  course — ^breaded  chops 
trimmed  a  la  francaise  by  your  butcher.  That  is,  the  skin,  gristly 
parts  and  most  of  the  fat  are  cut  away,  leaving  nearly  two  inches  of 
clean  bone  at  the  small  end. 

When  the  chops  are  done,  let  the  cook  wind  about  this  bone  a 
piece  cf  white  tissue  paper  four  inches  long  and  two  wide,  fringed 
on  the  outer  edge  for  more  than  half  the  width. 

With  the  chops  send  around  canned  French  peas.  Open  the 
cans  two  hours  at  least  before  cooking,  drain  off  all  the  liquid,  rinse 
the  peas  in  clean  water,  shake  them  in  a  colander,  and  leave  in  a 
cold  place  until  they  are  wanted  for  cooking.  Then  set  them  over 
the  fire  in  boiling  water,  slightly  salted.  Drop  in  a  very  small  lump 
of  loaf-sugar  and  cook  them  gently  twenty  minutes.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, stir  in  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  turn  into  a  hot,  deep  dish. 

Canned  peas  thus  treated  lose  the  close,  tmoky  flavor  that  too 
often  spoils  them  for  most  people,  and  taste  surprisingly  like  fresh 
green  ones.  Baked,  scalloped,  or  stewed  tomatoes  should  attend 
this  course. 


-^1 


THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER.  503 

A  mighty  turkey,  although  altogether  au  fait  at  Christmas,  is, 
to  the  minds  of  some  especially  punctilious  Thanksgiving  Day 
keepers,  less  a  "  must-be  "  than  at  the  November  anniversary. 

Should  your  culinary  conscience  or  the  family  appetite  demand 
the  sacrifice  of  the  Bird  of  Plenty,  garnish  him  with  fried  oysters, 
carefully  crumbed  and  cooked  to  a  nicety.  In  helping,  put  an  oys* 
ter  with  each  apportionment  of  meat.  Cranberry  sauce  is  always 
passed  with  roast  turkey. 

A  haunch  or  saddle  of  venison  is,  however,  a  noble  substitute 
for  the  provincial  piece  de  resistance.  Purchase  it  a  week  beforehand, 
hang  it  in  the  cold  cellar,  wash  it  oflF  every  day  with  vinegar,  and  on 
Christinas  morning  with  warm,  then  with  cold  water.    • 

Wipe  it  perfectly  dry  ;  encase  in  a  stiff  paste  of  flour  and  water^ 
and  this  in  two  layers  of  thick  white  wrapping  paper.  Fill  the 
dripping-pan  one-third  full  of  hot  water,  and  baste  often  with  this, 
adding  to  it  from  the  teakettle  should  it  evaporate  too  fast. 

Keep  the  paper  from  scorching  by  basting,  and  you  need  not  feat 
for  the  meat.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  dinner,  take  it  from 
the  pan,  strip  off  the  coverings,  test  with  a  fork  to  make  sure  that  it 
is  done;  return  to  the  oven,  rub  well  with  butter,  and  as  this  is 
absorbed,  dredge  with  flour.  Repeat  the  butter-baste  three  or  four 
times  while  the  meat  is  browning.    This  will  form  a  fine  "  glaze." 

For  gravy,  stir  into  that  in  the  dripping-pan  after  the  meat  is 
dished,  a  little  brown  flour  for  thickening,  a  teaspoonful  of  walnut 
catsup,  a  great  spoonful  of  currant  jelly  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Garnish  the  venison  with  alternate  slices  of  lemon  and 
pickled  beet-root  laid  on  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

For  vegetables  (which  are  always  passed  from  the  buffet  or  side 
table) ,  have  boiled  cauliflower  with  drawn  butter  poured  over  it,  and 
potatoes  augratin.  That  is,  mound  the  potatoes,  smoothly  mashed 
with  butter  and  milk,  upon  a  pie-plate,  butter  and  strew  thickly 


504  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

with  dry  bread-crumbs,  then  brown  lightly  in  the  oven.     Slip  care- 
ftiUy  to  a  heated  platter. 

Currant  jelly  or  g^ape  belongs  as  naturally  to  venison  as  does 
cranberry  to  turkey. 

Chicken-salad,  with  a  mayonnaise-dressing,   may  come  next. 
Sprinkle  the  top  with  pickled  capers,  and  garnish  around  the  sides! 
with  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into  quarters,  and  white  celery  tops. 

Next,  crackers,  cheese  and  olives,  and  having  lingered  a  reason- 
able time  (a  phrase  of  much  meaning  in  this  connection)  over  these, 
give  the  order  for  the  entrance  of  the  mincb-pieS. 

There  is  no  cross-cut  to  excellence  in  the  manufacture  of  this 
dainty.  Advertisements  of,  and  receipts  for  "Mince-meat  made 
easy,"  are  traps  for  the  unwary,  the  hard-pressed,  the  lazy. 

Meat  should  be  boiled  and  chopped,  suet  crumbed,  raisins 
stoned,  sultanas  and  currants  washed,  ritron  shred,  apples  pared  and 
tninced,  sugar  and  spices  weighed  and  measured,  and  liquor  poured 
out  with  deliberate  thought-taking,  and  the  ingredients  compounded 
at  least  a  week  before  the  crust  is  made,  that  the  mixture  may 
ripen  and  mellow. 

The  paste  must  be  the  best  of  the  year,  the  shells  be  liberally 
filled  and  the  contents  criss-crossed  with  serrated  or  twisted  bands 
0f  crust 

When  the  knife  enters  the  generous  bosom  of  the  Christmas- 
jic,  the  whiflF  of  fragrance  escaping  from  the  cut  should  set  every 
pulse  a-beating  to  the  lively  rhythm  of  old  "  Greenland ; "  the 
flower  bedight  table  should  become  a  "  Ceylon's  Isle  "  in  beauty  and 
balminess. 

Everybody,  except  hopelessly  confirmed  dyspeptics,  should  taste 
mince-pie  on  Christmas  day.  If  properly  made,  it  is  far  less  harm- 
fill  than  dietetic  (and  vegetarian)   pessimists  would  persu^e  as 


THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER.  505 

into  believing.  Grated,  or  powdered  old  cheese  is  a  jleasant 
adjunct  to  it.  and  to  some  extent,  a  corrective  of  possible  i  dl  con- 
sequences. 

Ices  and  jellies  cool  the  system  after  the  highly-seasoned 
pastries,  and  link  the  cooked  sweets  agreeably  with  fruits  au 
naturel. 

A  pretty  fancy-dish  is  made  by  filling  with  amber  orange-jelly 
the  skins  of  oranges,  emptied  and  scraped  through  a  small  hole  cut 
in  the  blossom-end. 

Insert  the  finger  cautiously  to  rid  the  inside  of  the  skin  of 
strings  and  pulp,  wash  with  cold  water,  and  pour  in  the  jelly. 
Leave  it  to  form  over-night,  and  set  on  ice  until  the  dessert  is  sent 
in.  Cut  lengthwise  into  halves  with  a  knife,  and  pile  on  a  glass 
dish  with  orange,  or  lemon  leaves  as  a  setting. 

Light  cakes  are  passed  with  ices. 

Fruits — ^bananas,  white  grapes,  oranges  and  late  pears — ^will 
probably  be  partaken  of  sparingly,  but  must  not  be  omitted.  Nor 
should  the  tiny  cup  of  black  coffee,  served  at  table,  or  sipped  later 
in  the  library  or  parlor. 

It  is  very  fashionable  to  take  coffee  "  clear,"  without  cream  or 
sugar,  but  offer  both  for  such  as  may  like  to  qualify  the  strength 
of  the  beverage.  It  should  be  very  strong  and  very  clear.  Well- 
bred  people,  and  sensible  ones,  do  not  affect  pale  or  watery  decoc* 
tions  after  a  hearty  dinner. 

Those  who  do  not  like  coffee,  or  who  fear  its  effect  upon  their 
nerves,  are  at  liberty  to  decline  it  now. 

All  ought  to  indulge,  on  this  day,  in  three  hours  of  pleasurable 
inaction — quiet  chat,  a  few  pages  of  a  sprightly  novel,  a  dreamy, 
not  sleepy  loll  in  a  favorite  chair — ^while  Nature  brings  forward  the 
forces  of  a  healthy  body  to  make  right  use  of  the  proyisio&s 
committed  to  her  care. 


5o6  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

It  is  not  the  hearty,  post-prandial  langh  that  helpeth  digestion, 
^ut  the  gentle,  smiling  content  of  a  heart  at  peaoe  with  itself  and 
all  of  good-will  to  men. 

MiNCE-PlE. 

A  standard  Christmas-joke  is  the  story  of  the  blunder  of  a 
French  cook  who  took  service  on  an  outward-bound  East  Indiaman. 
The  festival  fell  while  the  ship  was  hundreds  of  miles  from  land, 
and,  meditating  a  surprise  for  homesick  English  passengers,  he 
begged  a  recipe  for  plum-piidding  from  a  lady  on  board.  Three 
days  of  preparation  and  six  hours  of  execution  resulted  in  some 
gallons  of  brown  porridge,  streaked,  speckled  and  spotted,  compla- 
cently serv^  up  in  big  bowls.  His  confidante  and  ally  had  forgotten 
to  mention  the  pudding-bag— ^taking  it  for  granted,  as  do  many 
other  excellent  houswives,  that  "  everybody  knew  some  things." 

As  pudding,  the  Gallic  ckeps  exploit  was  a  failure.  The  product 
of  his  art,  jeered  at  by  those  he  strove  to  please,  might  have 
asserted  near  kinship  with,  and  greater  antiquity  than  the  National 
Noel  di5^h.  Walter  Scott  is  an  acknowledged  authority  on  gastro- 
«omic»1  archaeology. 

"And  well  our  Christian  sires  of  old 
I^oyedy  when  the  year  its  course  had  rolled, 
And  brought  blithe  Christmas  back  again, 
V^th  aU  his  hospitable  train. 

Then  was  brought  in  the  lusty  brawn^ 

By  old  blue-coated  serving  man ; 

Than  the  grim  boar's  head  frowned  on  Ugh* 

Crested  with  bays  and  rosemary. 

The  wassail  round  in  good  brown  bowls, 

Garnished  with  ribbons,  blithely  txowls. 

There  the  huge  sirloin  reeked ;  hard  by 

Plwm  porridge  stood  and  Christmas  pie ; 

Nor  failed  old  Scotland  to  produce 

At  audi  bigfa  tidc^  heraavory  goose.*^ 


THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER.  507 

I 

The  amorphous  "  plum  porridge "  was,  as  time  grew  toward 
ripeness,  crystallized  into  the  ultimate  texture  of  a  solid  by  incase- 
ment  within  a  stoiit  integument  (with  "  felled  "  seams).  At  a  still- 
later  epoch,  culinary  genius  as  daring  as  our  Frenchman's  and  more 
successful,  eliminated  the  flour  from  the  original  formation,  kn^ad- 
ed  it  into  a  concrete,  built  with  it  foundation  walls  and  reticulated 
roof,  and  presented  to  admiring  ages,  then  and  to  come — MiNCB* 
PiK. 

Genealogically  considered,  it  is  one  remove  from  plum  porridge, 
two  removes  from  plum-pudding,  and  has  no  consanguineous  con« 
nection  with  Scott's  Christmas  Pie.  The  latter  was  undoubtedly  a 
"  pastry  "  of  venison  and  other  game.  It  still  holds  a  place  of  honor 
in  the  British  cook  book.  It  contains  pheasants,  partridges  and 
woodcock,  sweet  herbs,  lemon-peel,  mushrooms,  fat  bacon,  egg- 
yolks,  butter,  gravy,  spices  and  bay  leaves,  and  is  surrounded  by  a 
raised  crust  of  surprising  thickness  and  solidity.  The  Puritan 
good  woman  ventured  a  timid  reminiscence  of  the  ancient  and  con- 
secrate structure  in  her  Thanksgiving  chicken-pie.  While  wiry 
fibres  all  along  the  tap-root  of  memory  hold  hard  to  anniversary- 
dishes  v/ith  love  that  has  no  affinity  with  fleshy  appetite,  we  cannot 
divorce  Cookery  and  Sentiment 

Those  of  us  who  can  buy  French  rolls  and  good  brown  bread ; 
who  care  for,  or  know  so  little  of  cake  as  to  tolerate  the  square 
inches  of  frosted  indigestion  supplied  at  famine-prices  by  mercenary 
confectioners ;  who  are  not  fastidious  as  to  rancid-butter-pastry  and 
ambiguous  filling — ^may  shirk  baking  for  fifty-one  weeks  in  the 
year.  If  Christmas  Mince-Pie  is  to  deserve  its  name  and  honorable 
estate,  it  must  be  made  at  home.  Nay,  more,  the  dogma  that  no  part 
of  the  process  can  be  slighted  without  endangering  the  fair  cen* 
struction  as  an  entirety,  must  be  etched,  and  the  lines  we?.i  bitten 
ki  upon  the  domestic  conscience. 


5o8  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

At  least  ten  days  before  the  World's  Festival,  clear  decent  space 
and  wide,  for  the  ceremony  of  mince-meat  making.  A  sort  of 
jocund  dignity  should  attend  preliminaries  and  manufacture.  The 
kitchen  must  be  clean  and  set  in  order ;  irrelevances  and  distractions 
of  ^  laundry-work  and  every-meal  cookery  must  be  shoved  out  of 
sight.  The  middle  distance  should  be  occupied  by  reserves  of 
material.  In  the  foreground,  let  mistress  and  assistants  seat  them- 
selves at  a  spacious  table,  and,  serenely  resolute,  engage  first  of  all 
the  currants, 

^^  Never  trust  hirelings  to  do  the  currants  I"  said  a  stately 
housekeeper  to  me,  confidentially,  thirty  years  ago.  ^^  Pour  wash** 
ings  are  my  rule." 

In  that  day,  the  Lady  enunciated  her  rules  with  calm  pride  that 
Beared  the  sublime.  My  chatelaine  checked  her's  o£f  with  a 
shapely  thumb  on  taper  fingers. 

"  First — ^A  rinsing  with  cold  water  in  a  colander  to  loosen  th^ 
lumpy  masses.  Second — ^I  rub  them  between  my  palms  as  I  would 
soiled  laces,  in  a  pan  of  tepid  water.  (You  would  not  believe,  my 
dear,  what  this  process  brings  to  light.)  Third — I  drain  them  in  a 
colander,  put  them  back  into  the  pan,  cover  them  with  cold  water 
and  give  them  another  rub.  Lastly — I  shake  them  briskly  in  the 
colander  while  I  pour  water  on  them — ^plenty  of  it  After  that,  I 
spread  them  on  a  clean  cloth  to  dry,  and  pick  them  over.  I  assure 
you  I  have  found  mummied — bugs—\n  currants,  and  once  took  out 
A  teaspoonful  of  gravel  from  three  pounds  of  fruit  I " 

Sultana  raisins  may  pass  with  two  washings.  They  need  no 
seeding,  but  are  prodigal  of  stems,  and  on  this  account  cannot  be 
slurred  over. 

Citron  is  made  flabby  by  washing.  Content  yourself  with  scraping 
it,  then  slice  it  into  thin  shavings  with  a  keen  knife,  and  clip  the 
shreds  into  dice. 


/ 

/ 


THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNEIL  509 

•  Free  the  large  raisins  from  stems,  cut  each  in  half,  and  take  out 
the  seed.  The  business  is  tedious  and  sticky.  To  enliven  the  task, 
two  or  three  may  work  together,  chatting  merrily,  or  as  was  the  way 
of  one  ingenious  family,  one  of  the  group  may  read  aloud  while  the 

the  others  are  busy.  Dickens'  Christmas  Chimes  and  The  Cricket 
on  the  Hearth^  have  always  for  the  ears  of  my  fancy  the  low  ac- 
companiment of  the  " snip-snap*'  of  raisin-scissors,  the  shrill 
sigh  of  the  December  wind  between  the  window  sashes,  the  sough 
of  the  draught  under  the  heated  plates  of  the  range,  the  bubble  and 
savoriness  of  the  beef  boiling  at  the  back  of  the  fire.  This  beef 
should  be  a  solid  chunk  of  the  round.  Cook  it  as  you  prepare 
raisins,  currants  and  citron,  the  day  before  the  ingredients  are  to  be 
compounded  into  a  whole  of  incomparable  deliciousness. 

On  the  eventful  morrow,  chop  the  meat,  clear  suet  of  strings 
and  membranes,  crumb  it  daintily  with  cool,  deft  fingers ;  select 
firm,  juicy  apples — ^pippins  or  greenings — ^pare,  slice  and  mince 
them  when  everything  else  is  ready.  Bare  your  arms,  and  mix  the 
accumulated  riches — from  North,  Bast,  South  and  West — ^iii  a 
mighty  bowl  or  pan.  First,  meat,  suet  and  apples,  then,  the  pre- 
pared  small  fruits  and  citron,  sugar  and  spices,  tossing  and  turning, 
but  not  bruising  or  crushing.  Finally,  add  wine  and  brandy  to  mel 
low  and  preserve  the  incorporate  mass. 

I  am  moved  to  insert  a  digressive  paragraph  heru 

In  my  own  household  the  place  of  ardent  spirits  is  in  the  medi 
fane -chest  and  among    flavoring  extracts  in  the  kitchen-closet 

They  are  never  used  as  beverages  on  the  table  or  elsewhere.    But 

our  eyes  are  not  yet  opened  to  see  death  in  wine-jelly,  or  certain 

destruction  in  brandy-sauce  for  occasional  puddings.    I  do  not  hesi- 

tate  to  say  that  mock-turtle  soup  is  not  at  its  princely  best  unless  a 

glass  of  wine  is  added  to  the  contents  of  the  tureen,  and  to  aver  yet 

mare  flatly  that  I  never  tasted  genuine  mince-meat  that  wa^  not 


5IO  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER- 

bzlgnteiied  by  an  infusion  of  excellent  brandy.  Not  content  with' 
others'  experiments,  I  have  made  up  huge  batches  of  it  upon  so< 
tailed  temperance  principles.  Like  all  imitations,  they  were  bur- 
lesques and  caricatures,  and  each  slice  had  more  dyspepsia  in  it 
than  conld  be  evolved  from  a  whole  real  Christmas  pie. 

Instead  of  imprisoning  the  harmful  volatiles  in  a  close  cmst» 
make  your  pie  more  wholesome  and  prettier  by  laying  strips  of 
pastry,  notched  with  a  jagging  iron,  on  the  full,  brown  breast  of  the 
Mince-Meat.  Then  let  none  of  the  household  partake  during  the 
holidays  and  year  of  anght  more  intoxicating  than  that  which  is 
bound  np  in  an  obtuse  angle  of  onr  American  Christmas  Pie,  and 
you  will  thank,  not  curse,  the  humble  biographer  of  this  daughter 
ti  high  degree  and  ancient  ancestry. 


Pickles. 

East  India  ;  or,  Mixed  Pickles. 

Have  ready  a  large  stone  jar,  or  perfectly  clean  wooden  firkin, 
and  drop  jnto  it,  from  day  to  day,  strewing  salt  thickly  between  each 
layer,  tiny  cucumbers — not  longer  than  your  little  finger,  and  even 
smaller — radish  pods,  minute  clusters  of  cauliflower,  small  string  , 
beans,  baby  onions,  nasturtium  seed — in  fact,  almost  any  small 
green  vegetable.  Add  cold  water  to  the  second  layer  of  salt  to  keep 
the  pickles  under  brine.  Lay  an  inverted  plate,  with  a  stone  upon 
it,  on  the  top  of  them  to  prevent  them  from  floating. 

At  the  end  of  two  or  three  weeks,  you  will  probably  have  enough 
collected.  Pour  off  the  brine,  pick  out  the  firm  pickles,  rejecting 
the  soft,  wash  well  and  cover  in  the  cold,  clear  water.  Change  this 
in  twenty-four  hours,  fill  up  with  fresh,  and  leave  until  next  day. 

Line  a  porcelain,  or  carefully  scrubbed  brass  kettle ;  or,  better 
than  either,  one  of  agate-iron  ware,  with  green  grape  leaves ;  put  in 
a  layer  of  the  mixed  pickles,  strew  powdered  alum  over  it;  another 
layer  of  green  things,  more  alum,  and  so  on  until  all  are  in.  An 
ounce  of  alum  to  a  gallon  of  pickles  should  suffice.  Cover  carefully 
with  very  cold  water*  and  this  with  three  thicknesses  of  grape  leavei, 


53£»  PICKLEa 

fit  a  close  lid  on  tlie  pot,  and  cook  very  slowly  for  four  hours  after 
the  water  becomes  scalding  hot,  which  should  not  be  within  an 
hour. 

Lift  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  pickles  and  drop  into  ice^coU 
nrater,  changing  this  In  half  an  hour  for  more  cold. 

In  your  kettle,  meanwhile,  put  for  each  gallon  of  vinegar,  one 
sven  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  whole  white  (or  black) 
peppers,  the  same  quantity  of  cloves,  one  dozen  allspice  and  one 
dozen  blades  of  mace  with  some  small  bits  of  red  peppers — only  a 
few, — ^also  a  tablespoonful  of  celery-seeds.  Boil  five  minutes,  drop 
the  pickles  into  a  jar — a  few  at  a  time,  not  to  break  them — and 
cover  with  the  boiling  spiced  vinegar.  Cover,  and  set  away  for  two 
days.  Drain  oflF  the  vinegar  then — every  drop — into  the  kettle,  heat 
to  scalding,  and  again  cover  the  pickles  with  it.  Do  this  a  third 
time,  after  three  days,  and  again  after  the  lapse  of  a  week.  Puc 
away  in  glass  jars,  sealing  hot  after  the  last  "  scald,"  and  keep  in  a 
'dark,  cool,  dry  place.  Inspect  them  every  month  until  their  integ- 
rity is  a  fixed  fact.  I  have  been  thus  explicit  ia  the  directions  for 
'  preparing  these,  because  the  same  general  rules  of  salting,  soakingi 
greening  and  scalding  are  applicable  to  all  green  pickles. 


Tiny  Tims. 

fcfelect  small  cucumbers  pf  uniform  size,  each  as  nearly  two 
inches  long  as  you  can  get,  prepare  as  directed  above,  and  when  the 
last  scalding  is  over,  take  up  each  with  a  pair  of  blunt  nippers  and 
pack  them  in  regular  layers,  perpendicularly,  in  glass  jars.  Strain 
the  spices  out  of  the  vinegar  and  pour  in  until  the  jar  is  full.  Cover 
closely  and  set  away.  A  little  care  in  selection  and  packing  will 
give  pretty  jarfuls,  better  in  flavor  and  as  pleasing  to  the  eye  as  the 
pickles  sold  under  the  name  of  ^^  Tiny  Timsr" 


1 


PICEtBSL  $13 

Cbow-Cbow  (Na  t). 

To  the  Bast  India  pickles,  a  recipe  for  which  has  been  given»  add 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  curry-powder  on  the  second  ^*  scald/'  and  mix 
in  well.  This  will  color  the  pickles  yellow,  and  impart  a  flaTor 
much  relished  by  the  lovers  of  piquante  condiments. 


'  Chow-Chow  (Na  s)« 

Mince  the  hearts  of  two  fine  cabbages  somewhat  coarsely.  Chop 
white  onions  fine.  Slice  four  cucumbers.  Pack  these  in  a  crock, 
sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt  (lightly)  and  leave  them  in  the 
cellar  until  next  day.  Prepare  the  seasoning  in  these  proportions  :-^ 
One  pint  of  vinegar;  one  even  cup  of  white  sugar;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper  (ground)  and  6ne  of  celery-seed ;  one  half- 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  mace  and  cloves;  que  tablespoonful  curry- 
powder.  Scald,  and  add  cabbage,  onions  and  cucumbers.  Cook 
gtuiily  half  au  hour,  and  seal  in  glass  jars.  It  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  a  week,  and  very  nice« 


CucuMBSR  Sor. 

Fifty  cucumbers,  sliced;  two  ounces  celery-seed;  one  ounce 
ground  white  (or  black)  pepper ;  six  onions ;  one  ounce  mixed  mace 
lud  cloves  (ground). 

Three  pods  red  pepper  chopped ;  four  cups  brown  sugar ;  three 
quails  of  vinegar ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  curry-powder ;  two  tablo- 
spooufuls  mustard  seed. 

The  cucumbers  should  be  peeled  and  sliced,  and  laid,  with  alter* 
««te  layecs  of  rfioed  onions,  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  five  or  six 


\ 


SH 


PICKLES. 


Iionni.  Drain  off  the  brine,  put  into  a  colander,  a  cupful  at  a  timt^ 
and  dash  very  cold  water  through  them  before  draining  again,  Ttnd 
stirring  into  the  scalding  vinegar  and  spices.  Cook  and  stir  tor 
half  an  hour  after  they  reach  the  boil.  Put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 
It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  tv;o  days. 


Grben  Tomato  Soy. 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes.  They  can  be  bought  cheap  if  you 
wait  until  the  first  frost  stops  the  ripening  of  the  fruit.  Slice  with- 
out peeling. 

One  quart  of  vinegar ;  one  pint  of  onions ;  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar ;  one  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  twc 
teaspoonful  of  cloves ;  one  tablespoonful  of  celery-seed  and  one  of 
ground  pepper. 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  and  pack  in  alternate  layers  in  youi 
kettle,  strewing  upon  each  the  sugar  and  spices.  Let  them  stand 
together  for  an  hour  before  adding  the  vinegar.  CooV  gently  for 
half  an  hour  after  they  really  boil.  Pack  while  hot  in  small  glass 
iars.     A  useful  and  good  sauce  and  pickle. 


■m         I 


Ripe  Tomato  Soy. 

Three  quarts  of  firm  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced ;  two 
anions,  minced  fine ;  six  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar ;  one  table- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  and  same  of  cloves;  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  pepper ;  one  pint  of  best  cider  vinegar ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt     Mix  up  well  and  cook  steadily  for  one  hoiin 


CiiiCRRv  Pickle. 

Two  pounds  of  cherries^-  -Morellas,  short  stems,  or  amber;  one 
full  cup  of  sugar ;  three  cups  of  best  cider  vinegar ;  one  otince  of 
'-5nnamon  in  broken  sticks. 

Heat  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  cinnamon  together.  Put  the 
cherries,  with  stems  on,  in  a  jar,  and  pour  the  vinegar,  boiling  hc^ 
upon  theni.  Do  this  every  morning  for  a  week,  when  they  will  lie 
fit  for  use. 


Pickled  Peaches. 

Choose  firm  ripe  peaches,  Morris  Whites,  or  Heaths,  if  you  can 
get  them.  Rub  free  of  down,  and  prick  each  twice  with  a  coarse 
needle.  Wash  well^  and  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  them.  Set  at  one  side  of  the  range,  and  bring  them  slowly 
to  scalding  point.     If  they  boil,  they  will  break. 

Then,  allow  for  ten  pounds  of  fruit : — ^Four  pounds  of  sugar ; 
two  quarts  of  vinegar ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  cloves,  mace 
and  pepper  corns  mixed ;  one  teaspoonful  of  celery-seed. 

Heat  all  together,  and  drop  in  gently  the  hot  peaches.  Cook 
slowly  fifteen  minutes,  but  not  until  they  break.  Take  the 
peaches  out,  and  spread  to  cool  quickly  in  large  platters.  Boil  the 
syrup  left  in  the  kettle  for  half  an  hour,  fast ;  put  tiie  peaches  intc 
iars,  strain  the  apices  out  of  the  syrup,  and  fill  up  the  jars  with  the 
'atter  wlile  hot. 


Pickled  Pears. 

Eight  pounds  of  pears,  carefully  peeled ;  four  pounds  of  white 
sugar ;  three  cups  of  vinegar ;    one  tablespoonful    each,  of  wholt 

i?-mce  and  stick  cinnamon. 


5x6  PICKUC8. 

Put  a  layer  of  pears  into  a  porcelain  or  agate*iron  kettla ;  ipiUikl* 
thickly  wiih.  sugar;  another  layer,  more  sugar,  and  so  on  nntll  all 
the  materials  are  in  except  the  spices.  Let  them  stand  for  an  hour, 
put  over  the  fire,  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  When  this  is  reached, 
add  vinegar  and  spices ;  cook  slowly  ten  minates  after  the  boil  ro- 
commences.  Take  out  the  pears  with  a  skimmer,  and  spread  to- 
cool  while  you  boil  down  the  syrup.  Strain  out  the  spices,  at  the 
end  of  an  hour's  cooking ;  fill  jars  with  th«  frnit,  and  cover  with  the 
boiling  liqnid.     Seal  whUe  hot 


PicKAixnxL 

Two  large  firm  cabbages ;  shred  fine  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 
criss-cross  into  bits  ;  one  pint  of  onions,  also  minced ;  one  head  of 
cauliflower  cut  up  in  the  same  way.  (Do  not  use  a  chopper ;  the 
thick  blade  will  bruise  and  crush).  Half-gallon  of  vinegar;  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  celexy-seed ;  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard; 
one  tablespoonful  pepper ;  one  tablespoonful  mace ;  one  tablespoonr 
fill  ground  cloves ;  two  cupfiila  brown  sugar ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
cnny-powder. 

Pack  cabbage,  cauliflower  and  onions  in  salt  (about  two  table> 
spoonfuls),  and  let  them  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  twelve  hours. 
Drain  off  the  liquor.  Heat  vinegar  and  spices  to  a  boil,  put  in  tha 
salted  mixture,  and  cook  slowly,  after  it  begins  to  simmer,  fiftee» 
minutes.     While  hot,  turn  into  small  jars  and  close  tightly. 

It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  days. 


FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Stem  and  pick  over  the  fruit ;  pack  it  bard  in  a  stoat  stone  jar 
and  set  in  a  kettle  of  lukewarm  water.  Bring  slowly  to  the  boil, 
and  keep  it  over  the  fire  until. the  currants  are  all  broken  to  pieces. 
If  you  have  no  fruit  press,  turn  the  currants  into  a  stout  coarse 
cloth,  fastened  at  each  comer  to  the  legs  of  an  inverted  chair,  and 
let  the  juice  drip  into  a  bowl  set  beneath.  When  all  has  come  away 
that  will,  without  squeezing — and  not  until  then — work  down  the 
contents  into  the  bag  with  a  wooden  spoon.  lastly,  untie  the 
corners  of  the  cloth  and  squeeze  hard  to  extract  every  drop  of 
liquid. 

Measure,  and  pour  into  a  preserving-kettle.  Heat  quickly  to  a 
rapid  boil.  Allow  a  pound  of  the  best  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
liquid,  and  when  the  latter  nears  the  boil,  put  the  sugar  into  broad 
pans  and  set  in  the  oven.  Stir  frequently  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
Let  the  juice  boil  fast  for  twenty  miuutes,  skimming  of  the  skum. 
If  it  cooks  too  long  it  will  darken.  Now  "  dump  "  in  the  heated 
sugar,  stir  fast  until  it  is  dissolved  and  the  syrup  begins  to  simmer 
at  the  edges ;  take  instantly  from  the  fire  and  fdl  the  glasses,  which 
should  first  be  rolled  in  hot  water  to  prevenL  cracking. 

When  cold,  press  upon  the  surface  of  the  j  illy,  tissue-paper,  cut 
to  fit  the  inside  of  the  glasses,  and  wet  with  bi-andy.  Fit  on  metal 
covers,  or  paste  stout  paper  over  the  glasses. 


5x8  JELLIRa 

C5HERRY  JEHY. 

Stone  the  cherries, but  crack  about  a  handful  and  add  the  "pit*-' 
to  tlie  fruit  when  it  goes  into  the  stone  jar  to  be  heated. 

Proceed  exactly  as  with  currants,  and,  should  the  jelly  not  form, 
readily,  leave  the  glasses,  uncovered,  upon  the  tin  roof  or  other  flat 
surface,  exposed  to  the  hottest  sun  several  days,  talcing  them  in  at 
uight  and  filling  one  tumbler  from  another,  as  the  contents  shrink, 
until  the  requisite  firmness  is  secured. 


Blackberry  and  Raspberry  Jelly, 

Are  made  in  the  same  way  as  currant,  but  are  greatly  Improved 
and  form  more  readily  if,  to  every  pint  of  blackberry  juice,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  strained  lemon  juice  be  added.  Raspberry  jelly  is  made 
delicious  by  mixing  one  cup  of  currants  with  every  quart  of  berries 
and  cooking  them  together. 

If  currants  are  not  procurable,  add  lemon  juice,  as  with  black- 
berries. 


Strawberry  Jelly. 

Nothing  is  more  delicious  for  making  layer-cake  than  this.  Buf 
unless  the  fruit  be  very  acid,  here,  again,  take  th^t  precaution  to  put 
in  a  dash  of  lemon  juice  to  ensure  the  needed  jellification. 


Peach  and  Pineappls  Jelly. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  treat  as  already  directed,  but  with  tu^ 
addition  of  a  dozen  "pits"  to  every  pound  of  the  fruit  They 
impart  a  piquancy  which  takes  off  the  "cloy"  of  the  cooked  peaches. 


JELLIEa  519 

To  every  pound  of  peaches  allow  two  large  slices  of  pineapple, 

minced  fine.    The  more  active  acid  of  the  pine  improves  this  jelly 
immeasurably. 

This,  also,  makes  delightful  layer-cake. 


Apple  Jelly. 

It  should  be  better  understood  that,  while  the  Siberian  crao 
makes  the  best  apple  jelly  known  to  the  oiok^yet  the  common  wild, 
or  seedling,  or  neglected  orchard  fruit,  can  be  made  into  a  delicious 
conserve.  Apples  which  we  consider  hardly  worth  picking  up,  so 
tart  and  crude  are  they,  may  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Cut  up  the  apples  without  peeling,  and  do  not  remove  the  cores. 
The  seeds  improve  the  taste.  Slice  small,  that  they  may  heat  the 
more  quickly,  and  pack  in  the  jar,  as  with  other  fruit.  Long  stand- 
ing injures  the  color.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  add  a  little 
water  to  Siberian  crabs  to  make  the  juice  flow  readily ;  this  is  seldom 
required  with  other  apples.  Stir  up  the  contents  of  the  jar  often 
while  heating.  Squeeze  out  the  liquid,  and  proceed  as  directed  in 
the  first  receipt  given  for  jellies. 


Quince  Jelly. 

Cut  up  without  paring.  Most  of  the  jellying  principle  is  in  the 
skins  and  seeds.  Put  over  the  fire,  with  just  enough  water  in  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  buniing,  and  heat  slowly  at  the  side 
of  the  range  until  soft.  Afterward,  boil  faster,  stirring  up  often, 
and  breaking  the  fruit  to  pieces  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon* 
Strain  the  pulp,  pressing  hard,  boil  twenty  minutes,  add  heated 
sugar,  boil  one  minute  and  (k  your  hot,  wet  glasses. 

Quince  jelly  is  healing  to  sore  throats  and  good  for  coughs. 


Preserves,  Jams  and  Marmalades. 

Preserved  Strawberries. 

The  most  delicious  and  beautiful  strawberry  preserve  I  ever  saw 
was  made  in  tlie  following  manner : — 

The  finest  and  firmest  berries  were  selected  and  picked  upon  a. 
clear  day.  They  were  weighed,  with  as  little  handling  as  possible, 
and  laid  upon  broad,  flat  stone  china  dishes.  To  each  pound  of  fruit 
was  allowed  the  sameweightof  best  white  sugar,  which  was  strewed 
over  and  among  the  berries.  About  a  pound  of  each  went  into  the 
largest  platter.  The  dishes  were  set  upon  the  tin  roof  of  a  southern 
piazza,  where  the  fierce  sun  poured  for  many  hours  of  each  day.  Over 
each  was  laid  a  large  pane  of  glass,  to  keep  off  dust  and  insects.  At 
night  the  dishes  were  taken  into  the  house.  In  ten  dajrs  there 
remained  in  them  the  thick, "  lucent  syrup,"  with  great  ruby  globes 
of  sweetness  set  in  it — and  warranted  to  keep. 

Of  course,  a  few  rainy  days  would  have  ruined  everything,  but 
the  accomplished  housewife  whose  table  bore  this  incomparable 
sweetmeat,  assured  me  that  she  had  never  lost  fruit  and  sag»r 
through  such  mischance. 

PiNBAPPLB  Preserves. 

Can  be  also  cooked  by  the  sun  in  July  or  August.  Allow 
pmud  for  ponnd ;  jwue  the  fruit;   cut  into  dice,  and  heat  as  yon 


PRESERVES.  5ai 

would  the  berries,  Wlieu  the  stiu  serves,  the  product  is  eminentlj 
satisfactory. 

In  cold  weather,  nice  preserves  may  be  made  by  preparing  th^ 
fruit  as  above ;  putting  it  and  the  sugar  together,  and  letting  them 
stand  for  four  hours.  Meantime,  boil  a  root  or  two  of  green  ginger 
in  a  pint  of  water,  first  slicing  it.  Cool  and  strain ;  pour  over  the 
sugared  pineapple  and  cook  steadily  to  a  gentle  boil.  Take  up  the 
pineapple  with  a  perforated  skimmer ;  spread  upon  platters  to  cool 
while  you  boil  down  the  syrup  until  thick  and  clear.  Put  in  the 
pineapple  again ;  cook  twenty  minutes,  gently  ;  fill  glass  jars  with 
it,  fill  up  with  syrup  and  seal  while  hot 


Preserved  Cherries. 

Stone  them,  weigh,  and  allow  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Add 
a  dozen  "  pits  "  chopped  fine,  to  each  pound.  Let  fruit  and  sugar 
stand  together  for  an  hour  in  a.  cool  place.  Put  over  the  fire  and 
cook  gently  fifteen  minutes  after  the  boil  begins.  As  with  other 
fruit,  remove  from  the  syrup  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  iaind  leave 
upon  dishes  to  cool  while  you  boil  down  the  syrup  thick.  Return^ 
the  cherries  to  this,  boil  five  minutes,  and  seal  while  hot. 


Imitation  East  India  Preserves. 

Six  pounds  of  fine  well-flavored  pippins ;  one  pineapple ;  tw> 
wnces  of  green  ginger-root ;  seven  and  one-half  pounds  of  white 
mgar;  juice  and  pulp  of  one  large  orange. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  the  apples.  Pare,  and  cut  up  the  pine- 
apple into  dice.    Scrape  and  mince  the  ginger,  and  put  over  the  fi^ 


•    T-.' 


52a  JAMS. 

In  cold  water ;  bring  to  a  boil ;  change  for  cold  and  bring  again  to  a 
boil.     This  shonld  be  done  before  you  prepare  the  other  fruit.    ' 

Put  into  a  large  farina-kettle,  or,  if  you  have  none  large  enough, 
into  an  ordinary  pail,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  tepid  water,  the  orange 
juice  and  pulp,  removing  seeds  and  fibres,  the  ginger,  sugar,  the 
pineapple  and  the  water  in  which  the  ginger  was  boiled  the  second 
time ;  there  should  be  about  a  pint.  Cook  fast  until  the  pineapple 
is  clear ;  let  it  get  almost  cold  ;  turn  into  a  preserve-kettle  and  drop 
in  the  quartered  apples— ;/«5/  peeled  and  cut.  Set  at  one  side  of  the 
range  where  they  will  not  boil  for  twenty  minutes  ;  increase  the  heat> 
but  stew  slowly  until  the  apples  are  clear  in  their  turn.  Remove 
with  care  to  platters,  boil  down  the  syrup  fast ;  pack  the  cooled 
amber  apples  into  wide-mouthed  jars,  strain  over  them  the  hot  syrup 
and  seal.  The  straining  removes  pmeapple  and  ginger,  but  leaves 
their  essence.     A  delicious  conserve  if  properly  made. 


Red  Raspberry  Jam. 

Allow  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  the  berries  over  the  fire  and  cook  until  they  break.  Turn  into 
a  colander,  and  let  all  the  juice  run  off  that  will  come  away  without 
pressing.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  for  half  an 
hour,  stirring  well.    Put  up  in  small  jars  or  tumblers. 


Blackcap  Jam. 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  as  is  also  blackberry  jam.     The  addi> 
tion  of  currant  or  lemon  juice  to  these  improves  the  flavor. 


NV4MA  M  .^M^^l^MHi 


MARMALADEa  523 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Fifty  quinces  ;  three  oranges,  juice  and  pulp — none  of  the  fibre* 
juice  of  one  lemon ;  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar. 

iPeel  and  core  the  quinces,  dropping  each  piece  when  thus  pre- 
pared, into  cold  water  to  preserve  the  color.  t*ut  parings  and  cores 
into  a  kettle  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  cook  until 
they  break ;  strain  and  press  out  all  the  water  through  a  piece  of 
cheese-cloth,  and  let  it  cool.  Then  put  over  the  fire  with  tiiC  quinces, 
the  oranges  and  lemon  juice,  and  cook  rapidly,  stirring  to  a  pulp. 
Add  sugar  to  this,  and  continue  to  stir  and  stir  for  half  au  hour. 

Put  up  in  glass  tumblers  with  brandied  papers  pressed  closely 
upon  them.  The  marmalade  should  be  of  a  fine  red  color,  and  firm 
enough  to  cut    It  is  very  fine. 


Orange  Marmalade 

Grate  away  three-quarters  of  the  yellow  and  thin  outer  rind  of 

Messina  oranges ;  the  Floridas  have  usually  too  much  skin.     Now, 

remove  the  whole  rind  in  quarters  or  eighths ;  put  over  the  fire  in 

enough  cold  water  to  cover  them  ;  cook  fifteen  minutes  after  the  bo? 

begins  ;  throw  off  the  water  and  replace  with  fresh  and  cold.     Ad 

soon  as  they  begin  to  boil  again,  drain  ofi"  this,  and  oovcr  a  third.  ^ 

time  with  cold  water.     Cook  again  for  fifteen  minutes  from  time  of 

boiling.     Throw  the  water  away,  lay  the  rinds  in  ice-cold  water  for 

ten  minutes,  then  spread  out  to  cool  quickly.  Prepare  the  orange 
pulp  by  removing  every  bit  of  the  inner  membrane,  the  seeds  and 

fibres.  Cut  into  bits  over  the  sugar  (pound  for  pound  of  the  fruit) 
not  to  lose  a  drop,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Stir  until  the  sugar  dis- 
solves, and  bring  to  a  speedy  boil.  Let  an  assistant  clip  the  boiled 
and  cooled  peel  into  bits  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  lend  a  hand  as 


5«4 


MARMALADES. 


you  have  time;  This  is  the  most  tedious  part  of  the  operation,  but 
a  chopper  would  not  do  as  well.  When  all  are  cut  up  add  to  tlie 
orange  syrup  on  the  fire ;  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and  fill  small  jars 
or  tumblers  with  the  marmalade.  It  should  be  clear  amber  in  color, 
and  much  less  bitter  than  most  of  the  imported  marmalades. 


Peach  Marmalade. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  take  out  the  stones.  Fruit  which  is  not 
dead-ripe  or  very  choice  can  be  used  to  advantage  in  this  way.  For 
every  pound  of  the  prepared  peaches  allow  one  dozen  "pits,"  cracked 
and  chopped,  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  fruit  and  "  pits  "  in  a 
kettle  and  heat  very  slowly,  breaking  it,  as  it  softens,  with  a  wooden 
ladle.  Increase  the  heat  when  they  are  hot  all  through  and  boil  to 
pieces,  quickly,  taking  care  to  stir  up  from  the  bottom  frequently. 
Drain  out  all  the  syrup  that  will  come  away  without  pressing, 
before  putting  in  the  sugar.  Cook  to  a  bright-colored  paste,  free 
from  hard  pieces  or  lumps,  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  glass  of 
brandy  for  every  four  pounds  of  fruit,  and  put  up  in  tumblers.  The 
brandy  serves  to  keep  it,  and  prevents  moulding. 


•  k 


A  Few  Dishes  for  the  Invalid, 

Beef-Tea,  or  Bouillon. 

Miuce  a  pound  of  fresh  lean  beef,  freed  of  strings,  and  put  into 
a  quart  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  one  hour ;  break  the  clotted 
meat  to  pieces  and  put  with  the  water,  near  the  fire.  That  is,  where 
it  will  reach  the  boil  in  an  hour.  Cook  slowly  then  for  two  hours 
longer,  take  from  the  fire,  salt  (and  pepper,  if  desired)  and  let  it  get 
told  with  the  meat  in.  Remove  all  the  fat,  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth, without  pressing;  put  back  over  the  fire,  and  when  luke- 
warm, drop  in  the  shell  and  white  of  an  egg.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and 
strain  through  double  cheese-cloth,  without  squeezing. 

Some  think  the  "tea"  more  nutritious  if  cleared  by  the  addition 
of  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  raw  beef — ^perfectly  lean — instead  of 
the  egg. 

Give  ice-cold,  or  very  hot. 

Jelubd  Toast. 

Cut  with  a  cake-cutter  rounds  out  of  thick  slices  of  stale 
baker's  bread.  Toast  lightly  and  quickly.  Butter  well^  sprinkle 
lavishly  with  salt,  lay  in  a  stout  china  or  silver  bowl,  and  cover 
deep  in  scalding  milk  a  little  salted,  cover  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
i^e  milk  is  all  soaked  up.    H&n  n  another  vessel  as  many  table- 


5a*  DISHES  FOR  THE  INVALID 

spoonfuls  of  cream  as  you  have  rounds  of  toast,  scalding  hot.  Lift 
the  edges  of  each  piece  of  toast  and  pour  in  the  cream  by  the  spoon- 
ful. Taste  to  see  if  it  is  salt  enough ;  cover  closely  and  leave  in 
the  oven  ten  minutes  longer.    Serve  in  the  bowl. 

It  is  savory  and  nourishing,  if  made  exactly  according  to  direc- 
tions. 


Custard  Toast, 

Prepare  as  above,  but  pour  over  the  toasted  and  buttered  rounds 
a  sttgarUss  custard — allowing  a  beaten  egg  to  a  cup  of  hot  milk, 
and  when  it  has  soaked  up  this,  add  the  cream,  as  with  the  jellied 
toast 

Arrowroot  Jelly. 

Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  best  Bermuda  arrowroot ;  two  cups  of  ■ 
boiling  water ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  half-teaspoonful  granulated  sugar ; 
juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Wet  the  arrowroot  with  cold  water ;  stir  the  sugar  and  salt  into 
the  boiling  water,  set  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  bubbles  hard,  stir 
in  the  arrowroot.  Stir  (still)  over  the  fire  until  clear.  If  the  arrow- 
root is  good,  this  should  be  in  three  or  four  minutes.  Add  the 
lemon  juice  (if  permissible)  aud  pour  into  wet  glasses. 

Bat  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 


Arrowroot  Blanc-mangb. 

Is  made  by  substituting  hot  milk  for  water  in  the  above  recipe 
and  omitting  the  lemou  juice. 


Index. 


AMbnd*    . 

aBj 

Beets,  Yoong     . 

a«.3U 

Apples  and  Bacon       . 

98a 

Biscmt,Egg 

353.353 

Apples,  Fried 

4o8 

Biscuit,  Buttermilk     . 

33« 

357 

Biscuit,  Deviled     . 

rn 

Apple  Pyramid 

391 

Biscuit,  Oiaham 

489 

Apples,  Steamed 

457 

Biscuit,  Quick 

494 

Apples,  Sweet,  Baked 

477.  496 

Bisque,  Chicken           . 

307 

Bacon,  Brealcfast 

J73 

Bisqne,  Fish 

a83 

Bananas 

3"9 

Bisque,  Fish  maigre     . 

366 

Bananas,  Fried 

>69.3o6 

Bisque,  Salmon      . 

3SO 

Bannocks     . 

3S8 

Bisqne,  Tomato           ,           . 

»97 

Bass,  Boileil      . 

'73 

Blanc  Mange 

3*7 

Beans,  Baked 

479 

Brains,  Calts  . 

463 

Beans,  au  Mailre  d'HoUt      . 

356 

Bread  and  Butter  (thin)    . 

i^ASi 

Beans,  Kidnej 

3» 

Bread  Batter,  Southern 

467 

Beans,  Lima     . 

30a 

Bread,  Brown 

479 

Beans,  String 

i'S.  36a 

Bread,  Brown,  Steamed 

a» 

Beef  Balls 

364 

Bread,  Com 

381, 410 

Beef,  Braised, 

40a 

Bread,  Com,  Boiled     . 

462 

Beef,  Brisket  of,  s  U  mode    . 

307 

Bread,  Risen 

438 

B<er,  Cornell,  Boiled 

39» 

Bread,  Corn,  Terhune 

334 

Beef,  Corned,  Hash  , 

47* 

Bread,  Fried 

4»9 

peef.  Deviled,  in  bnlter    . 

360 

Brewis              ... 

a59,  437 

Beef  Hash,  au  graiin  . 

394 

Cabbage,  Stewed     . 

404 

^ef  Heart,  cold    . 

418 

Cafe  au  Lait 

485.433 

Beef  Loaf 

375 

Cake,  An  Excellent  Cup 

45a 

Beef,  Tot-roasl  of  .            . 

430 

Cake,  Cafe  au  Lait 

396 

Beef,  Ro3st  a  1 'Orleans 

33° 

Cake,  Cbcoanut           .           . 

33^ 

Dcef  Roast,  ivitli  Yorkshire  Pud< 

ling     453 

Cakes,  Cora 

yn 

Beef  Sausagea  . 

369 

Cak«,  Com  meal  Cup  . 

391 

Beef  Scallop 

406 

Cake,  Creamed  SpongB    . 

454 

Bee&teak  aad  Onions 

314 

Cake,  Huckleberry     . 

33s 

Beefsteak,  Stewed 

414 

Cake,  Jelly  Roll     . 

40a 

beefsteak  with  Sherry  sauce  . 

asi 

Cake,  Jelly  (warm)      . 

37c 

teefs  Tongue,  fresb  ancralin 

335 

Cake,  l^y 

3«) 

S'28 


INDEX 


Cak^  Layer  CoocMuiot 
Cake,  Lemon 
Cake,  Light      • 
Cake,  Marmalade  • 
Cake,  Pink  and  White 
Cake,  Sponge        • 
Cakes,  Tea       •  • 

Cake,  Walnut 
Cake,  White     • 
CalPs  Head,  Baked 
Cauliflower  augTaiin 
Cauliflower,  Baked 
Cauliflower,  Cheese  Sauce 
Celery  augraUn    • 
Celery,  Fried   .  • 

Celery,  Stewed 
Celery,  Stewed  Brown 
Charlotte  alaBoyaU 
Charlotte,  Apple 
Charlotte,  Apple,  Baked 
Charlotte,  Myrtle's     • 
Cheese  Bars  • 

Cheese  Fingers  • 

Chestnuts,  Boiled  . 
Chicken,  Boiled,  on  Rice 
Chicken,  Broiled,  Deviled 
Chicken,  Broiling,  Fricasseed 
Chicken,  Brown  Fricassee  of 
Chicken,  Curried 
Chicken  Fricassee  Oaeh/  • 
Chicken,  Fried,  Whole 
Chicken,  Larded    • 
Chicken  Legs,  Mince  of 
Chicken  Steamed,  Stuffed 
Chocolate         •  • 

Chocolate,  Frothled  « 

Chowder,  Clam  • 

Chowder,  Cod        •  • 

Chowder,  Lakewood   • 
Chowder,  Lobster  •  , 

Clams,  Steamed  • 

Cocoa-theta  •  , 

Cod  and  Macaroni       • 
Cod,  Boiled  • 

Cod,  Glazed      •  • 

Coffee,  Meringue^ 
Cookies  •  • 

Oon^  Stewed        • 


375 
363 

416 

457 

354 

349>  413 
469 

480 

389 

476 

487 

367 

303.  415 

399 

403 

459 

372 

33* 
439 

440 

427 

490 

406 

440 

459 

353 
366 

351 

319 
397 

346 

303 

328 
481 

350 
328 
458 
475 
345 
376 
306 

a67,475 

371 

268 

303 

348 
464 
308 


Com,  Stew  of,  censed     o 
Crabs,  Deviled 
Crackers  and  Cheese        • 
Crackers,  Home-made 
Crackers,  Oatmeal  • 

Crackers,  Toasted       • 
Cream,  Rice  •  • 

Cream,  Russian  • 

Creases,  Water       •  • 

Croquettes,  Chicken   • 
Croquettes,  Hominy         • 
Croquettes,  Lobster     • 
Croquettes,  Potato  • 

Croquettes,  Veal  and  Ham 
Crullers       •  •  • 

Crumpets 

Cucumbers,  Pried  • 

Custard,  Burnt  •  • 

Custard,  Cocoanut 
Custard,  Corn  Starch  • 
Custard,  Sponge  Cake 
Dinner-Pail,  The 
Dinner,  The  Christmas 
Dinner,  The  Thanksgiving 
Dodgers,  Cornmeal 
Doughnuts       • 
Ducks,  Potted       •  • 

Ducks,  Stewed 
Dumplings,  Apple,  Baked 
Eels,  Stewed,  a  la  F^ancaisc 
'  Bels,  Stewed 
Bggs,  Baked 
Eggs,  Boiled 
Eggs,  Creamed  • 

Eggs,  Curried        • 
Eggs,  Deviled  • 

Eggs,  Fricasseed  • 

Eggs  in  Toast  Cups 
Eggs,  Meringued  • 

Egg  Sauce       •  • 

^gg9>  Scalloped  • 

Bggs,  Scrambled  « 

^ggSi  Stewed        •  • 

Kgg-Flant,  Stuffed 
Fish  Balls    • 
Fish,  Blue,  Broiled 
Fish  Cake,  Baked 
Fish,  Rechauffe  of 


» 


47« 
323 
312 
391 

334 

39X 
3i&4ao 

363 

354 
39X 

487 
347 
298,  367.  372 
4" 
485 
450 
348 

415 

320.448 

326 

483 

383.  388 
500,509 

443.  448 
359 

406 

335 

493 

466 

♦7 

483 
468 

374 
455 

39s 
386 

449 
385 

366 

368 

369 
305 
400 

336 

461 

435 
3<H 

an 


INDEX 


5*9 


PAOB. 

»AOB. 

Fisb,  White,  Pried 

32s 

Liver,  i  la  Jardiniere       •          « 

371 

Flonndeis,  Cutlets,  Baked     • 

397 

Liver  and  Bacon 

316 

Flapjacks    •           •           •           • 

255 

Liver,  Brown  Stew  of       •           • 

300 

Pondu,  Cheese            •           • 

496 

Liver,  Fried      •           •           • 

435 

Pondu,  Chicken  or  Veal  •           • 

478 

Liver,  Larded        •           •           • 

962 

Fowl  Roast  &  la  Guywi          • 

341 

Liver,  Ragout  of         •           • 

254 

Fritters,  Brain        •          •           • 

478 

Lobster,  Buttered  «           •           * 

430 

Fritters,  Clam  •          •           • 

438 

Lobster,  Creamed        •           • 

414 

Fritters,  Corn         •          •           • 

354 

Lobster,  Curried    •           •          • 

333 

Fritters,  Oyster-Plant  •           • 

481 

Lobster,  Stewed          •           • 

390 

Fritters,  Sponge  Cake      •          • 

418 

Macaroni,  Spaghetti.  Baked 

269 

Fruit      •           •           •           • 

279.  394 

Blacaroni,  Stewed       • 

258 

Galantine    •           •           •           • 

271   ' 

Mackerel,  Fresh    •                      • 

370 

Gems,  Bgg 

300,390 

Mackerel,  Salt  with  White  Sauce 

494 

Gems           •           •           •           • 

484 

Mayonnaise  Dressing       •           • 

474 

Gingerbread,  Oatmeal 

474 

Melons  •           •           •           • 

343 

Gingerbread,  Prudence's,  without  Bggs  266 

Milk,  Thickened    . 

424 

Gingerbread,  Soft 

302,434 

Mufitns,  Aunt  Chloe*8  •           • 

290 

Gingerbread,  Soft  Raisin  • 

491 

Muffins,  Bread  and  Milk  •           • 

348 

Gingerbread,  Warm    .           • 

360 

Muffins,  Brown.           •           • 

456 

Griddle  Cakes,  Barbara's  •           • 

395 

Muffins,  Corn  Meal           •           • 

316 

Griddle  Cakes,  Com    . 

364 

Muffins,  Bnglish 

472 

Griddle  Cakes,  Crumb      • 

422 

Muffins,  Mamma's            •           • 

342 

Griddle  Cakes,  Farina 

270 

Muffins,  Raised,  without  eggs 

'       369 

Griddle  Cakes,  Flannel,  without  Bggs    405 

Muffins,  Rice         •           •           • 

265 

Griddle  Cakes,  Oatmeal   • 

478 

Muffins,  Risen  •           •           • 

400,462 

Gruel,  Farina   •           •           • 

358 

Muffins,  Rye           • 

332 

Gruel,  Oatmeal      •           •           • 

255 

Mush,  Fried      •          •          • 

455 

Haggis,  Dundee 

420 

Mush,  Golden        •           •           • 

488 

Halibut,  Baked      •           •           • 

486 

Mutton  and  Macaroni            • 

4» 

Halibut,  Steaks 

465 

Mutton  Chopa       •          • 

^ 

Halibut,  Stufied     •           •           • 

318 

Mutton  Chops,  Baked 

Ham  and  Bggs,  Hinee  of 

321 

Mutton  Chops,  Stewed     •          • 

361 

Ham,  Barbecued    •           •           • 

456 

Mutton,  How  to  Use  the  Last  of  That  490 

Ham,  Deviled  . 

439 

Mutton,  Leg  of.  Larded    • 

257 

Ham,  Fried  in  Batter       •           » 

363  . 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  with  Caper  Sauce 

268 

Hen's  Neat,  Winter  A  • 

488 

Muttoo,  Ragout  of 

487 

Herrings,  Scotch   • 

417 

Omelette,  Baked  with  Herbs 

317 

Hominy,  Boiled  with  Milk     • 

455 

Omelette,  Codfish  •           4 

467 

Hominy,  Coarse     .           • 

247 

Omelette,  Oyster         •           % 

309 

loe  Cream,  Banana      «         /  • 

331 

Omelette,  Roe        •          ^          • 

249 

Ice  Cream,  Crushed  Strawberry  • 

289 

Omelette,  Sweet  A      • 

323 

Ice  Cream,  Peach 

36a 

Omelettes^  Tom  Thumb   •          • 

332 

Jelly,  Coffee. 

460 

Onions,  Bermudas,  Sttiffisd    • 

298 

Junket  •           •          •          • 

334 

Onions,  Creamed  •          • 

392 

Kidneys  and  Ham  •           • 

405 

Onions,  Young           •           • 

274 

Kidneys,  Deviled         ,           • 

34a 

Oranges            •                •           « 

421 

Lemonade  •           •          •          • 

350 

Oranges  and  Sugar    «           • 

W 

S30 


INDKX 


Oysten  au  fymHu             •          • 

356 

OjBfTBp  Deviled          •           , 

407 

Oysten  in  Bed        •           •           • 

396 

Oysten  on  Toast         •           • 

451 

Oy8ter-plant»  Pried           • 

39« 

Oyster-plant,  Steired  •           • 

466 

Oysters,  Scalloped  • 

493 

Oysters,  Scalloped,  with  Mushrooms      401 

Pan-cakes,  (sngared) 

428 

Parsnips,  Pried 

408 

Pates  devean         •           •           • 

339 

Pates,  Lobster  • 

329 

Peaches  and  Whipped  Cream 

347 

Peas,  Canned  •       •       •       • 

493 

Peas,  Green 

258 

Pea  Pancakes  •       •        •        • 

431 

Pickerel,  Baked    •        •       •        • 

361 

Pie,  Curried  Chicken      . 

403 

Pie,  Sweet  Potato        •        •        • 

404 

Pie,  Veal  and  Ham        •       • 

43S 

Pigeons  Stewed    •       •       •       • 

356 

Pigs*  Feet,  Breaded 

34S 

Pigs*  Peet,  Pried 

396 

Pike,  Larded           •       -        • 

470 

Pine-Apple,  Sliced,  with  Wine    . 

336 

Plague  of  Plies       •       • 

378, 3Ba 

Pop-overs 

977.285 

Pork  chops,  (with  tomato  sauce) 

421 

Porridge,  Arrowroot 

352 

Porridge,  Browned  Rice      •        • 

449 

Porridge,  English  Oatmeal     . 

368 

Porridge,  Farina           •       •        • 

494 

Porridge,  Graham           •       • 

264 

Porridge,  Graham  Flakes  • 

980 

Porridge,  Green  Com 

342 

Porridge,  Hominy 

461 

Porridge,  Imperial  Granum      253, 

275. 400 

Porridge,  Milk . 

299 

Porridge,  Milk  and  Rice  • 

290 

Porridge,  Molded 

337 

Porridge,  Mush  and  Milk 

309.427 

Porridge,  Mush-milk  .           » 

331 

Porridge,  Oatmeal .           • 

409 

Porridge,  Oatmeal  (cold)        • 

315 

Porridge,  Rice        .           ; 

483 

Porridge,  Rye  •           •           • 

404 

Porridge^  Wli  eat  Germ  Meal 

«53.275 

Potatoes  ^  la  Napolitaine      • 

33$ 

Potatoes  a  la  Jhtrtstenne 
Potatoes  and  Corn,  Minced 
Potatoes  iZM  Cenei>e 
Potatoes  au  Mai  Ire  tP  hotel 
Potatoes  au  Milan 
Potatoes,  Baked 
Potato  Balls 
Potatoes,  Browned      • 
Potatoes,  Buttered  . 
Potato  Cakes  au  graiin 
Potatoes  Chopped 
Potatoes,  Dressed 
Potato,  drop  cakes  of 
Potatoes,  Fried 
Potato  Fritters  « 

Potatoes,  Glazed 
Potatoes,  Hashed 
Potatoes,  Hashed,  Browned 
Potato  Hillocks  • 

Potatoes  in  Cases  • 
Potato  loaves    «  • 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise 
Potatoes,  Minced 
Potatoes,  Mold  of  • 
Potatoes,  IMont  Blanc 
Potatoes,  New        • 
Potato-Puflf 
Potato  Rolls 
Potatoes,  Saratoga       • 
Potatoes,  Savory    • 
Potato  Souffle 
Potatoes,  Stewed  • 
Potatoes,  Stewed  Whole 
Potatoes,  Sweet,  augratin 
Potatoes,  Sweet,  Baked 
Potatoes,  Sweet,  Browned 
Potatoes,  Sweet,  Fried 
Potatoes,  Sweet,  Stewed 
Preserves,  Mock  East  India 
Pudding,  Amber    • 
Pudding,  Batter 
Pudding,  Belle's  Bright  Thought 
Pudding,  Boiled  Indian        • 
Pudding,  Canned  Com     •  • 

Puddiuf^,  Corn  Starch,  Hasty 
Pudding,  Cup,  Plum         •  • 

Pudding,  FaUma*8       •  • 

Pudding,  Graham  Fruit  •  • 


INDEX 


531 


JN»cldlB|^>  Oraztetitt      ,           •  984 

Padding,  Hedf^og          •  •           372 

Pudding,  Huckleberry            •  353 

Padding,  Indiaa  Meal       .  •           377 

Pudding,  Italian,  Rice            i  428. 

Pudding,  Marie's   •           •  •            399 

Pudding,  Marmalade  •  279 

Pudding,  Orange   •           *  •           869 

Pudding,  Peach           •           •  367 

Paddings,  Queen  of           •  •           341 

Pudding,  Rice  and  Peach       •  456 

Pudding,  Suet         •            •  •           493 

Pudding,  Suet  and  Sago         •  953 

Rabbits,  Deviled    •           «  •           410 

Rabbits,  Roasted         •           •  497 

Radishes      •           •           •  •           356 

Rarebit,  Ham  •           •           •  354 

Rarebit,  Welsh       ...  966 

Rarebit,  Welsh  (cold)  •           .  393 

Rice  and  Brains      •           •  •           986 

^Uce  and  Tomato         •           «  984 

Rice,  Boiled            •           •  .           3x9 

Rice,  Pilau  of  .           •           •  996 

Rissoles       .           •           •  •           359 

Roley-poley,  Baked     •           •  471 

Rolls,  French         •           •  •           339 

Rusk      ....  319, 360 

Rusk,  Dried,  and  Milk      •  .           344 
Salad,  Cabbage  with  Boiled  Dressing     3.17 

Salad,  Celery  and  Sardine  •           433 

Sa^ad,  Chicken ...  386 

Salad,  CreBs            •           •  •           279 

Salad,  Cucumber         .           .  359 
Salady  Egg  and  Sardine  Mayonnaise     351 

Salad,  Lettuce .           •           •  999, 460 
Salad,  Lobster,  Cream  Mayonnaise        288 


Salad,  Oyster    . 
Salad,  Potato 
Salad,  Raw  lomato     . 
Salad,  Shrimp        • 
Salad,  Shrimp  and  Cheese 
Salad,  String  Bean 
Salad,  Sweetbread       • 
Salad,  Tomato        •  • 

Salad,  Tomato  and  Lettnce 
Salmon  an  Janot   •  • 

Salmon  Fingers 


495 
3^485 
344 
3a8.  473 
336 
306 
301 

339 
987 

493 

281 


Salmon  Pudding,  with  Lemon  Saace     497 


Salmon,  Smoked,  Brdled      • 

Sandwiches,  Bacon  and  Mutton  • 

Sandwiches,  Cheese  and  Egg 

Sandwiches,  Chicken       • 

Sandwiches,  Cracker  and  Anchovy 

Sandwiches,  Ham  • 

Sandwiches,  Sardine  •  • 

Saxdines  on  Toast  • 

Sauce,  Apple    •  • 

Sance^  Brandy       • 

Sance^  Cranbefiy        • 

Sauce,  Hard 

Sance,  Hasty  Podding 

Sance,  Jelly  • 

Sance,  Liquid  •  • 

Sauce,  Keapolitaine 

Sance,  Peach   •  • 

Sauce,  Tomato      • 

Sausages  • 

Sausages,  Home-made 

Scalloped  Cabbage      •  • 

Scalloped  Codfish,  with  Cheese 

Scalloped  Codfish,  with  Mushrooma 

Scalloped  Cod,  Salmon  or  Halihnt 

Scalloped  Com  and  Tomato  • 

Scalloped  Pish       • 

Scalloped  Potato         • 

Scallops,  Breaded  • 

Scallops,  Clam. 

Scallops,  Fried      • 

Scones,  Oatmeal         • 

Scones,  White 

Sea-H:ide 

Shada«^a//Vft       • 

Shad,  Baked     •  .  • 

Shad,  Baked,  with  Wine  Sauce. 

Shad,  Broiled   • 

Shad,  Pried,  with  Muce  PiqmanU 

Short  Cake,  Melissa*a  • 

Short  Cake,  Peach 

Short  Cake,  Strawberry 

Snipe,  Mock  • 

Soup,  Asparagus  . 

Soup,  Baked  • 

Soup,  Barley     •  • 

Soup,  Beef  and  Sago 

Soup,  Black  Bean         • 

Soup,  Brown  Potato 


301 
386 
385 

339 
386 

385 
385 

37S 
4xa 

499 
982 

493 
399 
353 
368 

439 
427 

433 

496 

337 

343 
261 

357 
976 

349 
4x6 

9SS 

340 
301 

433 

453 
990 

951 

257 

27s 

313 
976 

417 
«58 
S9d 

91% 

355 

43« 
37« 
3x3 


53a 


INDEX. 


TAQ9, 

Soup,  Calf '8  Head       .  •  464 

8oup,  Calf's  Feet  with  Poached  Eggt    335 
Soup,  Canned  Pea       •  •  318 

Soup,  Catfish  .  •  •  262 

Soup,  Chicken  and  Sago        •  419 

Soup.  Clam.  •  •  •  388 

Soup,  Clear       •  •  •  413 

Soup,  Com  •  •  •  •  267 

Soup,  Cream     •  «  •  303 

Soup,  Curry  Rice  •  ^  •  361 

Soup,  Farina    •  •  •  486 

Soup,  Giblet  •  •  •  452 

Soup,  Green  Pea         •  •*  340 

Soup,  Lima  Bean  •  •  •  4«2 

Soup,  Mock  Turtle     •  •  324 

Soup,  Mulligatawny         •  •  277 

Soup,  Potato    •  .  •  480 

Soup,  Potato,  purA  •  •  469 

SovLpt  pur/e  maigre  •  •  250 

Soup,  Rabbit    •  •  •  424, 440 

Soup,  Russian        •  -  •  497 

Soup,  Tomato  •  .  , 

Soup,  Turnip,  tnaigre       •.  ? 

Soup,  Turnip /ar^      .  * 

Soup^  Turnip />»r/tf  (without  Meat) 
Soup,  Vegetable 
Soup,  Vegetable,  Family  • 
Soup,  White     '.  •  • 

Spinach,  au  naturel  •  « 

Spinach,  on  Toast       . 
Squash,  Scalloped 
Squash,  Stewed  • 

Squash,  Sumiiier    .  • 

Stfawberriea     •  , 

Succotash,  •  •  • 

^T/eetbreods,  Ragout  of 


407 
39a 

397 
434 

491 
293 

253 

.  314,  408, 419 

.    435,482 

426 

347 
255.  a86 

278 

349 


Pickles,  Chow  Chow,  eto. 
Fruit  Jellies 

Preserves,  Jams  and  Marmalades 
A  Few  Dishes  for  the  Inralid 


Sweetbreads,  Roast  • 

Sweetbreads,  Roast,  w^'th  Peoa 
Tea,  Iced 

Terrapin,  Imitation  • 

Toast,  anchovy  with  Bgg  Sauoe 
Toast,  and  Rice,  Curry  of 
Toast,  Bread     •  • 

Toast,  Buttered      •  • 

Toast,  Cream    •  « 

Toast,  Lemon  Cream        • 
Toast,  Scalloped         • 
Toast,  Tomato       •  • 

Tomatoes  and  Com   • 
Tomatoes,  Deviled  • 

Tomatoes,  Scalloped  • 
Tomatoes,  Stewed  •       263, 

Tomatoes,  Staffed       • 
Tongue,  BeePti  augroHn 
Tongue^  Beefs,  Browned 
Tongue,  Laxded     •  • 

Tongue,  Deviled         • 
Tongue,  Jellied      •  • 

Tongues,  Lambs',  Pickled 
Tongues,  Sheeps',  Stewed 
rrifle,  Chocolate 
Trifle,  Strawberry  • 

Tripe,  Pried     •  • 

Turkey,  Steamed  • 
Turnips,  Creamed       • 
Turnips,  with  White  Sauoe 
Veal  and  Ham  Cutlets 
Veal  and  Maoeroni,  Scalloped 
Veal  Braised     . 
Waffles        •  •  • 

Waffles,  Pariiia  • 

Waffles,  Rloe         •         • 

•  •  •  gti 

•  •  $»7 

•  •  •  •  320 


383 

273 

323 

278 

484 
441 
30a 

457 

365 

490 
311 

393 

39« 

463 

377»  471 

351 

465 

441 

I9S 
•256 

451 
333 

-«99 

294 
264.468 

4^ 
470 
343 
470 
495 
37« 
3>«.374 
3«7 
3^ 


TME  MMk 


:} 


This  book  is  a  preservatiQii  photocopy. 

It  is  made  in  compliaiice  mth  copyright  law 

and  produced  on  add-free  archival 

60#  book  weight  p^r 

which  meets  the  requirements  of 

ANSl/NISO  Z39.48-1992  (permanence  ofpaper) 

Pteservation  photocopying  and 

by 

Acme  Boddnnding 
Chariestown,  Massacfausetts 

1999 


