Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


I 


Schlesinger  Library 
Radcliffe  College 


Culinary  Collection 
Schlesinger  General  Purpose 


o;Goo<^lc 


(5// 

7$> 


jvGooi^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


Eifi  Haurri  ^mttif  (Slaaktr^ 


A  COLLECTION  OF 


Pra<5tical  Suggestions  and  Recipes 

For  dw  PiqwratioD  <i  Non-Flesh  Foocli  in  Palatable 
and  Atbai^ive  Ways 


EVORA  BUCKNUM  PERKINS 

An  Instrudor  of  wide  experience  in  Vegetarian  Cookery  in  Variotu 

Hornet,  Chatauquat  and  Sanitaiiunu,  and  the  Pioneer  b 

Hygienic  Vegetarian  ReMaurant  WotIc 


THE  LAUREL  PUBUSHING  COMPANY 

MELROSE.  MASS..  U.  S.  A. 


ovGoo<^lc 


Copyright,  ign,  by  Evora  Bucknum  Fekkins. 


n,,m-b,G00i^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


4  THE    LAUREL 

This  collection  contains  the  choicest  of  those  of  my  recipes 
which  have  been  pubHshed  by  others  in  various  books  and  peri- 
odicals at  different  times. 

I  am  indebted  to  an  inaumerable  company  of  people  of  al 
classes  for  ideas,  for  which  I  would  be  glad  to  thank  each  one 
personally  if  it  were  possible. 

Though  there  is  hardly  any  choice,  the  recipes  marked  with  a 
star  are  especially  practical  and  desirable. 

All  unnamed  quotations  are  from  "The  Ministry  of  Healing" 
or  other  works  by  the  same  author. 

That  "The  Laurel  Health  Cookerj'"  may  bring  rich  blessings 
to  many  households  is  my  earnest  prayer. 


/0«-C^/M-*-***<_   N»  ■i'Z-lW****' 


'  Many  will  be  rescued  from  physical,  mental  and  moral  degen- 
eracy through  the  practical  influence  of  health  reform.  Health 
talks  will  be  given,  publications  will  be  niiiltiplied. 

"The  principles  of  health  reform  will  be  received  with  favor; 
and  many  will  t>e  enlightened." 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Introduction 3 

General g 

Cooking  Utensils,  their  Uses  and  Care 

Things  to  Do  Beforehand 

Economy 

Miscellaneous 

Measurements 

Flavorings 

Garnishings 
Fruits 3+ 

Fresh 

Cooked 

To  Can 

Jellies 

Jams 

To  Can  Vegetables 69 

To  Dry  Vegetables 7a 

Soups 74 

Suggestions 

Water  Soups 

Cream  and  Milk  Soups 

Bisques 

Chowders 

Purees 

Our  Famous  Soups 

Fruit  Soups 

Soup  Garnishes  and  Accompaniments 

Entrees 109 

True  Meats 139 

Nuts  and  Nut  Foods 

Trumese 

Trumese  Dishes 

Nutmese 

Nutmese  Dishes 

Trumese  and  Nutmese  Dishes 

Roasts 

Legumes 

Eggs 

(5) 


ovGoo<^lc 


THE    LAUREL 

PAGE 

Mushrooms 216 

Stuffings  and  Dressings 221 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Gravies  and  Sauces  ,    .    ,  233 

Vegetables 237 

Chestnuts 271 

Salads 273 

Secrets  of  Success 

Cooked  Dressings 

Uncooked  Dressings 

True  Meat  Salads 

Vegetable  Salads 

Fruit  Salads 

Puddings  Without  Eggs 294 

Puddings  With  Eggs 309 

Pudding  Sauces 324 

Gelatine — Vegetable 335 

P'Es 347 

Cakes 370 

Icings  and  Fillings 

Ice  Cream  and  Frdit   Ices 402 

Cereals 409 

Macaroni 419 

Breads—Leavened 434 

Breads—Unleaved,  Without  Chemicals 445 

Sandwiches 465 

Milk,  Cream,  Butter  and  Cheese 473 

Drinks 479 

Invalid  Foods 486 

Confections 488 

Meals   and   Menus 493 

Picnic  and  Travelling  Lunches 504 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


INTRODUCTION 


QEVERAL  years  ago  as  I  was  leaving  Washington  after  giving 
a  course  of  demonstration  lectures  in  hygienic  cookery,  I  was 
impressed  with  the  thought  that  a  cook  book  (which  my  friends 
had  been  ui^ing  me  to  write)giving  the  results  of  my  experience, 
would  be  the  means  of  reaching  the  greatest  number  of  people 
with  knowledge  on  health  subjects. 

As  a  result  of  that  thought,  this  book  comes  with  earnest, 
heartfelt  greeting  to  all  other  works  of  the  same  nature,  not  as 
a  rival  but  as  a  co-worker  in  the  great  plan  of  glorifying  our 
Creator.      I  Cor.  10:31, 

In  its  preparation,  I  have  purposed  to  make  the  book  practi- 
cal, avoiding  technicalities  and  to  some  extent  conventionalties, 
and  have  endeavered  to  "meet  the  people  where  they  are"  by 
not  being  extreme  or  radical;  and  at  the  same  time  to  make 
principles  of  truth  so  clear  that  many  will  be  won  from  "thein- 
dulgence  of  appetite,  which  places  them  in  such  a  condition  of 
health  that  there  is  a  constant  warring  against  the  soul's  highest 
interests." 

While  there  are  recipes  especially  for  those  who  entertain, 
there  is  an  abundant  variety  of  directions  for  carefully  prepared 
simple  dishes. 

The  explicit  general  directions  will  not  be  needed  by  all,  but 
from  my  twenty  years  of  experience  in  teaching,  I  know  that 
many  will  value  them. 

The  foods  richest  in  proteids  are  classed  as  "True  Meats"  and 
no  flesh  meat  names  are  used  in  the  book. 

(3) 


jvGooi^le 


EBBATA 

The  sauce  number  73  given  for  Peanut  and  Rice  Croquettes 
(page  152),  and  for  Mashed  Beans  (page  186},  should  be  75. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


GENERAX 

cooKnra  utensils,  thbib  tjses  and  cabe 

A  GOOD  housekeeper  without  perfected  kitchen  convenien- 
ces is  as  much  of  an  anomaly  as  a  carpenter  without  a 
plane,  a  dressmaker  without  a  sewing  machine." — Anonym. 

What  would  we  think  of  the  farmer  who  today  was  cutting 
his  hay  with  a  scythe  and  reaping  his  grain  with  a  cradle  because 
he  could  not  "afford"  a  reaper  and  mower? 

While  we  should  be  able  to  adapt  ourselves  to  circumstances, 
to  improvise  double  boilers,  steamers  and  ovens  when  necessary, 
it  is  at  the  same  time  true  economy  to  have  an  abundance  of 
cooking  utensils  if  possible.  A  half  dozen  saucepans  will  last  six 
times  as  long  as  one  used  for  everything  and  save  much  valuable 
time. 

"To  many  people,  anything  out  of  the  usual  custom  is  deemed 
extravagant."  This  I  suppose  accounts  for  the  fact  that  many 
housewives  who  have  beautifully  furnished  parlors  and  wear 
fine  clothing  cannot  afford  conveniences  for  the  kitchen. 

The  room  in  which  is  prepared  the  "food  to  sustain  life  and 
nourish  brain,  bone  and  muscle,"  should  be  the  most  attractive 
place  in  the  house,  and  it  will  be  when  arranged  and  furnished 
for  convenience.  I  can  think  of  nothing  more  interesting  than 
a  kitchen  with  the  frequently  used  utensils  decorating  the  walls 
where  they  can  be  reached  with  few  steps;  and  such  little  things 
as  spoons,  egg  beaters,  can  openers,  spatulas,  cork  screws,  po- 
tato mashers,  measuring  cups,  funnels,  soup  dippers,  wire  strain- 
ers, pinchers  and  skimmers,  not  forgetting  a  small  cushion  with 
pins,  hanging  just  over  the  table;  the  table  having  drawers  for 
knives,  vegetables  cutters  and  other  unhangable  articles. 

The  best  quality  of  aluminum  ware  is  the  cheapest  and  best 
for  fruits  and  for  general  cooking  purposes,  except  for  vegetables. 

w 


.b,CjOOi;lc 


lO  THE    LAUREL 

Never  put  lye  or  anything  alkaline  into  aluminum    vessels. 

Copper  and  re-tinned  vessels  are  unequaled  in  some  respects 
(if  they  may  not  be  used  for  acid  foods);  being  flat  bottomed, 
thick  and  heavy,  milk,  legumes,  cereals  and  foods  of  that  nature 
are  not  so  apt  to  stick  or  scorch  in  them,  and  they  are  almost 
everlasting.     They  can  be  re-tinned  when  the  lining   wears   off. 

Iron  kettles  and  frying  pans  are  excellent  for  many  things. 
Some  of  the  uses  of  a  nice  smooth  iron  frying  pan  are  to  bake  a  . 
round  cake  or  a  thick  pie  or  a  pudding  in,  to  scallop  corn  or  po- 
tatoes, or  to  scald  milk. 

Use  granite,  agate,  and  porcelain  lined  utensils  with  care. 
Never  dry  them  on  the  stove  as  that  causes  them  to  crack;  and 
do  not  knock  the  edges  of  the  kettles  and  saucepans  with  a 
spoon,  nor  strike  any  kind  of  a  vessel  with  an  agate  spoon,  as 
it  causes  the  little  particles  of  glazing  to  flake  off.  These 
flakes  from  ^ate  utensils  often  work  serious  injury  to  the  deli- 
cate membranes  of  the  digestive  tract. 

One  large  double  boiler  holding  from  8  to  i6  qts.  is  very  de- 
sirable as  it  furnishes  two  kettles  for  fruit  canning  and  other 
purposes  and  can  be  used  as  a  double  boiler  when  required. 
Several  smaller  ones  of  different  sizes  economize  time  and  food 
material. 

To  improvise  a  double  boiler,  set  a  close  covered  pan  over  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water;  or  set  a  covered  dish  into  a  pail  with 
water  in  it,  cover  and  put  into  the  oven;  or  put  a  pail  or  other 
covered  vessel  into  a  kettle  of  water  on  top  of  the  stove  with 
something  under  it  to  keep  it  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle; 
or  set  one  milk  crock  into  another,  with  water  in  the  lower 
one;  or  a  bowl  into  the  top  of  the  teakettle.  The  first  double 
boiler  I  ever  owned  was  a  gluepot. 

Use  wire  strainers  or  small  and  large  colanders,  well  covered, 
over  dishes  of  boiling  water,  for  steamers;  and  when  a  deeper  re- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ceptacte  is  required,  turn  a  basin  or  pan  that  just  fits,  over  the 
top. 

Two  sizes  of  flat  colanders  with  pin  head  holes  are  to  be  found 
at  the  5  and  lo  cent  stores,  which  are  just  as  useful  and  durable 
as  more  expensive  ones.  They  answer  the  purpose  of  both 
steamer  and  colander. 

Be  sure  to  have  deep  kettles  or  boilers  into  which  the  coland- 
ers fit  perfectly.  I  have  been  in  kitchens  where,  though  there 
was  a  sufRcient  variety  of  utensils,  they  were  of  little  use,  for  no 
two  things  fitted;  the  steamers  and  colanders  were  just  a  little 
too  large  or  a  little  too  small  for  all  the  kettles,  requiring  double 
the  expenditure  of  time  and  strength  in  using. 

Iron  rings  from  small  wooden  kegs  or  little  rings  melted  from 
the  tops  of  tin  cans  are  great  treasures  to  use  on  the  top  of  the 
stove,  in  kettles,  or  in  the  oven,  to  set  vessels  on  to  keep  the 
contents  from  sticking  and  burning. 

"Gunboats" — empty  tin  cans — of  all  sizes,  have  a  great  vari- 
ety of  uses, 

A  book  of  asbestos  sheets  costing  ten  cents  is  invaluable. 
Each  sheet  can  be  used  again  and  again  for  laying  over  bread, 
cake  and  other  foods  in  the  oven. 

After  using  an  aluminum  frying  or  omelet  pan  for  a  time,  one 
would  always  feel  it  to  be  a  necessity. 

The  uses  of  timbale  molds  and  custard  cups  are  almost  in- 
numerable, and  when  you  once  get  them  you  have  them. 

A  pastry  brush  saves  greasy  fingers  and  much  time,  in  oiling 
cold  or  warm  pans.     Never  use  it  on  a  hot  griddle. 

For  dispatch  and  thoroughness  in  oiling  round  bottomed  gem 
pans,  nothing  equals  a  piece  of  cloth  folded  in  several  thick- 
nesses  2  1-2  to  3  in.  square,  saturated  with  oil. 

A  spatula  (similar  to  a  palette  knife)  of  medium  size  will  soon 
pay  for  itself  in  the  material  it  saves  from  the  sides  of  the  pans, 
as  well  as  in  time. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


12  THK    LAfREL 

A  large  French  knife  chops  vegetables  on  a  board  more  rapidly 

*  than  they  can  be  done  in  a  chopping  bowl;  it  also  slices  onions, 

shaves  cabbage,  cuts  croutons  and  does  many  things  as  no  other 

knife  can,  while  smaller  ones  of  different  sizes  all  have  their  uses. 

For  stirring  dry  flour  and  meal  into  hot  liquid,  for  gravies, 
and  for  beating  all  batters,  nothing  \can  take  the  place  of  a 
strong  wire  batter  whip.  ^'^ 

The  "Surprise"  beater  with  fine  cross  wires  makes  the  whites 
of  eggs  for  meringues  and  cakes  lighter  than  any  other.  The 
smaller  the  wire  around  the  edge,  the  lighter  the  eggs  will  be. 
These  very  delicate  ones  are  for  sale  in  some  of  the  five  and  ten 
cent  stores  at  3  for  5c,  Next  to  the  "Surprise"  beater  for  beating 
whites  of  eggs  comes  the  silver  fork. 

The  "Dover"  revolving  beater  gives  a  fine  close  grain  when  that 
is  desired,  as  in  egg  creams,  the  "Holt"  coming  next  and  being 
more  rapid  in  its  work,  while  the  "Lyon"  gives  a  fine,  fluffy  re- 
sult.    A  large  sized  beater  is  more  useful. 

E^s  can  be  beaten  in  a  deep  bowl,  narrow  at  the  bottom  (the 
regular  cooking  bowl  shape)  in  half  the  time  that  it  takes  to  beat 
them  in  a  broad  bottomed  bowl.  The  nearer  the  sides  of  the 
bowl  are  to  the  beater,  the  quicker  the  work  will  be  done. 
The  same  is  true  of  whipping  cream,  and  as  cream  spatters  at 
first,  a  pitcher  or  a  tin  can,  not  so  deep  but  the  handle  of  the 
beater  can  be  operated,  is  best  for  the  purpose.  It  is  better  tQ 
set  the  dish  in  the  sink  while  whipping  cream. 

If  possible  have  a  good  scale,  as  much  more  accurate  results 
are  obtained  in  cooking  by  weight  than  by  measure.  It  will  be 
useful  in  weighing  articles  from  the  grocery  and  market,  for 
weighing  letters  and  papers  for  mailing  and  many  other  things. 

When  you  have  used  a  good  bread  mixer  for  a  time,  you  would 
not  go  back  to  the  old,  laborious  way  of  kneading  bread  for  dou- 
ble its  cost.  The  mixer  also  makes  better  bread  than  can  be  made 
by  hand. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SURPRISE  BEATER 


t,zcob,CjOO»^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


GENERAL  1 3 

One  of  the  greatest  labor  savers  is  a  food  cutter.  A  large  sized 
one,  even  for  a  small  family,  is  most  satisfactory.  Many  now 
have  a  nut  butter  attachment  which  is  desirable,  though  a  regu- 
lar nut  butter  mill  is  preferable  for  nut  preparations. 

Try  to  have  something  for  a  quick  fire.  If  you  are  out  of  the 
reach  of  gas,  a  well-cared-for  two  burner  oil  stove  will  do  good 
service. 

Eternal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  preventing  double  boilers  from 
going  dry.     Add  more  water  before  there  is  the  least  danger. 

Rinse  off  the  egg  beater  or  batter  whip  and  hang  it  in  its  place 
as  soon  as  you  finish  using  it,  before  going  on  with  what  you  are 
doing,  unless,  as  in  some  cakes,  it  needs  to  drain,  then  have 
ready  a  pitcher,  tin  can  or  quart  measure  containing  cold  water 
to  drop  it  into  after  draining. 

The  cogs  of  an  egg  beater  should  never  be  wet;  when  they  are 
wet  once,  its  usefulness  is  impaired. 

The  "Surprise"  beater  should  never  be  touched  with  a  cloth. 

Always  wipe  a  can  opener  after  using,  and  hang  it  in  its  place. 

Wire  strainers  should  always  be  rinsed  as  soon  as  used;  colan- 
ders also,  unless  they  require  soaking,  in  which  case  put  them 
immediately  into  water. 

Put  sticky  utensils  to  soaking  as  soon  as  emptied. 

Rinse  and  put  to  draining  everything  that  can  be  rinsed;  then 
it  will  be  ready  for  use  instead  of  rusting  in  the  sink. 

Never  put  knives,  spatulas,  egg  beaters  or  whips  in  the  sink; 
always  rinse  them  off  at  once. 

Professional  cooks  never  lay  a  knife  down  without  wiping  it 
off.  Clean,  dry  cloths  or  towels  should  be  at  hand  for  such  pur- 
poses. 

A  side  towel  fastened  to  the  waist  is  almost  a  necessity. 

Never  scrape  a  knife  or  spoon  on  the  edge  of  a  dish. 

It  is  just  as  necessary  and  as  satisfactory  to  keep  the  inside  of 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


14  THE    LACREL 

the  oven  blackened  as  the  top  of  the  stove,  and  it  is  very  little 
more  work. 

Boil  strong  lye  water  in  a  scorched  vessel  (except  aluminum), 
before  trying  to  clean  it. 

I  have  noticed  that  if  a  little  water  is  boiled  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  close  covered  vessel  in  which  some  pasty  food  has  been 
cooked,  the  particles  are  so  loosened  by  the  steam  that  the  ves- 
sel washes  easily. 

I  would  si^gest  that  instead  of  hanging  the  dish  cloth  on  the 
inside  of  the  sink  door,  you  put  it  on  A  line  near  the  stove  or 
out  of  doors,  where  it  will  dry  quickly. 

Wet  wooden  spoons,  chopping  bowls  and  all  wooden  utensils 
in  cold  water  before  using,  to  prevent  their  absorbing  the  flavors 
and  juices  of  foods. 

Put  new  bread  and  cake  tins  into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  them 
until  they  look  like  old  ones,  if  you  wish  your  bread  and  cake  to 
be  well  done  on  the  bottom  and  sides. 

Do  not  work  in  a  "mess,"  keep  your  tables  wiped  upas  you  go. 

Above  all,  pick  up  after  yourself .  It  is  often  more  work  to 
pick  up  after  people  than  to  do  the  work. 

THINGS  TO  DO  BEFOREHAND 

Wash  potatoes  and  keep  in  stone  crock  in  cool  place. 

Have  beans,  peas  and  lentils  looked  over. 

Have  English  currants  washed  and  dried,  in  jars. 

Have  seeded  raisins  stemmed. 

Have  peanuts  and  almonds  blanched. 

Have  herbs  and  flavorings  ground  and  bottled. 

Have  citron  cut,  wrapped  in  waxed  paper,  in  covered  jar. 

Have  flour  browned  in  three  shades. 

Have  dry  bread  ground. 

Have  tomatoes  strained. 

Have  lemon  juice  extracted,  standing  in  a  cool  place. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


GENERAL  I5 

ECOHOUY 

"Gather  up  the  fragments  that  remain  that  nothing  be  lost," 
John  6:13. 

True  economy  consists  in  using  all  of  a  good  material,  rather 
than  in  buying  an  inferior  quality. 

It  is  poor  economy  from  a  financial  standpoint  (saying  nothing 
of  health)  to  buy  small  or  specked  fruits  or  vegetables. 

It  takes  longer  to  pare,  quarter  and  core  a  specked  apple  than 
a  sound  one,  because  the  decayed  part  has  first  to  be  cut  out 
and  one  may  have  to  cut  again  and  again  before  it  is  all  removed 
and  when  it  is  finished  there  may  not  remain  a  quarter  of  an  apple, 

I  once  saw  two  barrels  of  apples  bought  at  a  great  "bargain." 
Four  or  five  people  whose  time  was  valuable  spent  an  afternoon 
in  preparing  those  apples  to  stew;  when  they  had  finished,  there 
was  just  a  bushel  left  and  they  were  so  flavorless  that  it  was 
necessary  to  add  lemon  juice  and  a  good  deal  of  sugar  to  make 
them  at  all  palatable. 

C.  F.  Langworthy,  Ph.  D.  in  speaking  of  overripe  and  partial- 
ly decayed  fruit  says:  "In  addition  to  a  deterioration  in  flavor, 
there  is  always  the  possibihty  of  digestive  disturbance  if  such 
fruit  is  eaten  raw, " — Farmers'  Bulletin  293.  U.  S.  Department 
of  Agriculture. 

Inferior,  immature  fruit,  dried,  requires  a  larger  proportion  of 
sugar  than  well  ripened  fruit,  and  then  it  is  neither  palatable 
nor  wholesome. 

Small  prunes  with  their  large  proportion  of  stone  and  skin  are 
expensive  besides  being  inferior  in  flavor. 

It  takes  as  long  to  pare,  quarter  and  core  a  small  apple  as  a 
large  one,  and  a  bushel  of  large  apples  will  yield  more  pulp  than  a 
bushel  of  small  ones,  notwithstanding  the  spaces,  there  being  a  so 
much  larger  proportion  of  skins  and  cores  in  the  small  ones. 

Small  pineapples  are  especially  expensive. 


ovGoo<^lc 


ID  THE   LAl'REI, 

"Cheap"  Hour  costs  more  than  the  best  because  it  takes  a 
larger  quantity  to  make  the  same  amount  of  bread. 

Corn  starch  that  costs  two  or  three  cents  less  per  package  than 
the  best  will  sometimes  require  double  the  quantity  for  thicken- 
ing, besides  imparting  a  strong,  disagreeable  flavor. 

Cotton  seed  oil  that  is  not  well  refined,  so  that  it  is  clear  and 
nearly  white  is  not  fit  for  food,  and  requires  more  for  shortening. 

Economy  in  all  things,  food,  clothing,  houses,  climate  is  that 
which  keeps  us  in  the  best  condition  physically  and  spiritually. 

MISCELI^NEOUS 

All  foods  that  are  suitable  should  be  used  uncooked.  They 
are  more  nourishing  and  consequently  more  satisfying. 

Foods  containing  starch  should  not  be  eaten  raw. 

Next  to  wholesomeness,  make  taste  and  palatability  first. 
There  is  nothing  more  disappointing  than  to  taste  of  a  daintily 
arranged  and  decorated  dish  and  find  it  fiat  and  insipid. 

Seek  to  develop  the  natural  flavors  of  foods,  of  which  there 
are  thousands,  rather  than  to  add  foreign  flavorings. 

To  stir  fruits,  legumes  and  many  foods  while  cooking  is  just 
the  way  to  make  them  stick  and  scorch.  Shake  the  vessels  in- 
stead of  stirring. 

To  brush  kettles  and  saucepans  on  the  inside  with  oil,  helps 
to  keep  milk  and  other  foods  from  sticking. 

Use  double  boilers  as  far  as  possible  for  reheating  gravies,  ce- 
reals and  legumes,  and  for  heating  milk. 

When,  in  spite  of  all  precautions,  something  burns  on,  plunge 
the  vessel  without  ceremony  into  a  pail  or  pan  of  cold  water  for 
a  moment,  empty  the  contents  immediately  into  another  kettle, 
add  boiling  water  and  return  to  the  fire  to  finish  cooking.  Badly 
scorched  foods  often  lose  all  the  scorched  flavor  by  this  treat- 
ment. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


GENERAL  J  J 

Remove  the  burnt  portion  from  bread  or  cake  with  a  grater, 
when  first  taken  from  the  oven. 

Dip  the  knife  into  hot  water  to  cut  butter,  warm  bread  or  cake. 

Two  forks  are  better  than  a  knife  for  separating  steamed  pud- 
dings, fresh  cake  and  many  things. 

Use  pastry  fiour  for  gravies,  sauces  and  all  thickenings. 

To  blend  flour  and  liquid  for  thickening,  add  only  a  little  liquid 
at  a  time,  stirring  with  a  fork  or  batter  whip  until  a  perfectly 
smooth  paste  is  formed,  then  add  liquid  to  make  of  the  consist- 
ency of  rather  thin  cream. 

Flour,  for  thickening,  gives  a  more  creamy  consistency  than 
corn  starch.  Use  corn  starch  for  fruit  juices,  as  it  leaves  them 
clearer. 

Never  mix  flour  or  corn  starch  with  eggs  to  stir  into  boiling 
liquid,  as  they  both  require  longer  cooking  than  ^gs  will  bear 
without  separating.  Stir  the  blended  flour  or  corn  starch  into 
the  liquid  first,  let  it  boil  well,  then  pour  the  hot  mixture  grad- 
ually, stirring,  into  the  beaten  eggs,  return  to  the  fire  and  cook 
a  moment  if  necessary,  but  do  not  boil. 

In  adding  yolks  of  e^s  to  hot  mixtures,  put  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  on  to  the  yolks,  stirring,  then  add  them, 
all  at  once,  to  the  whole. 

Eggs  must  be  added  all  at  once  to  hot  liquids  so  they  will  all 
be  cooked  alike  and  a  part  will  not  curdle  before  the  rest  is  done. 

To  prevent  a  raw  taste,  blended  flour  should  be  added  to  boil- 
ing liquid  so  slowly  as  not  to  stop  its  boiling. 

"  Rich  milk"  means  one-fourth  to  one-third  cream. 

Cream  judiciously  used  is  no  more  expensive  from  a  linancial 
stand  point  than  butter,  and  from  a  health  standpoint  it  is  cheaper. 

Being  in  the  form  of  an  emulsion,  cream  does  not  hinder  di- 
gestion as  does  the  free  fat  of  butter.  It  should  be  sterilized  be- 
fore using  in  uncooked  dishes. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


l8  THE   LAUREL 

In  the  recipes  in  this  book,  heavy  cream  is  meant  unless  thin 
is  specified. 

It  is  cheaper  to  buy  heavy  cream  than  light,  when  there  are 
two  qualities,  and  you  can  make  it  as  thin  as  you  wish. 

When  cream  is  scarce  do  not  use  it  where  oil  and  skimmed 
milk  will  do  just  as  well,  but  save  it  for  uses  where  nothing  else 
will  take  its  place. 

Cream  with  water  often  gives  a  better  flavor  to  foods  than 
milk,  and  is  just  as  cheap. 

For  farmers,  the  use  of  cream  saves  the  labor  of  making  butter. 

When  taking  cream,  use  fewer  nuts  and  less  butter  and  other 
oils. 

Nut  creams  and  butters  may  always  be  substituted  for  dairy 
cream  and  butter,  with  jut^ment  as  to  flavors. 

Peanut  butter  should  be  used  sparingly  and  judiciously.  No 
one  enjoys,  as  one  man  expressed  it,  "that  everlasting  peanut 
flavor  in  everything." 

Oil  and  melted  butter  may  be  combined  in  equal  quantities 
when  the  butter  flavor  is  desirable,  as  in  pilau  and  drawn  butter. 

Oil  makes  more  tender  pastry,  raised  cakes  and  universal  crust. 

"Stale"  bread  crumbs  are  those  of  a  two  or  three  days  old  loaf. 

Stale  bread  is  understood  for  crumbs  when  no  specification  is 
given. 

A  quick  and  easy  vray  to  prepare  stale  bread  crumbs  is  to  cut 
very  thin  slices  from  the  loaf,  lay  them  together  and  cut  as  thin 
as  possible  across  one  way  and  then  the  other  with  a  large  sharp 
knife  into  tiny  dice. 

"Dry"  crumbs  are  those  from  a  loaf  dry  enough  to  grate  or  grind. 

Save  all  pieces  of  bread  not  usable  for  croutons  or  other  things, 
dry  without  browning,  and  roll  or  grind,  for  dry  crumbs;  sift, 
leaving  two  sizes  of  crumbs. 


t,zcob,GoO<^lc 


GENERAL  I9 

When  bread  crumbs  are  used  for  puddings  or  molds  the  quan- 
tity will  vary  with  the  kind  of  bread.  Fewer  will  be  required 
with  home-made  bread  than  with  baker's  bread. 

Bread,  cracker  or  zwieback  crumbs,  corn  meal,  flour  or  browned 
flour  No.  1,  or  a  mixture  of  crumbs  and  brown  or  white  flour 
may  be  used  for  rolling  croquettes  or  cutlets,  or  for  sprinkling 
the  top  of  scallops  or  gratins. 

Nut  meal  is  suitable  for  the  outside  of  rice  croquettes  and  the 
top  of  many  dishes. 

Grated  or  chopped  onion  is  apt  to  become  bitter  if  prepared 
long  before  using. 

To  extract  the  juice  from  lemons  without  a  drill,  cut  them  in 
halves  without  rolling,  the  same  as  for  a  drill,  then  holding  each 
half  over  a  strainer  in  a  bowl,  work  the  point  of  a  spoon  from 
the  cut  surface  in  and  around  gradually  to  the  rind.  This  method 
removes  the  juice  cleaner  than  does  the  drill. 

Another  way  is  to  roil  the  lemon  and  puncture  it  at  one  end 
with  a  silver  fork,  then  squeeze  the  juice  out.  This  leaves  the 
seeds  inside. 

Dry  lemons  yield  more  juice  than  fresh  ones. 

Remove  the  pulp  from  lemons  for  pies  and  other  uses  by  cut- 
ting them  lengthwise  in  the  middle  of  the  sections  and  scraping 
each  side  of  the  membrane,  or  by  cutting  the  lemon  in  halves 
crosswise  and  taking  the  pulp  out  with  a  spoon. 

To  keep  lemons  and  oranges  from  molding,  spread  them  on  a 
shelf  in  a  dry  place  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other.  They 
may  be  covered  with  glass  tumblers  if  in  a  cool  as  well  as  dry 
place. 

To  core  apples,  insert  a  steel  fork  at  the  blossom  end  and  turn 
it  round  and  round,  then  repeat  from  the  stem  end. 

The  half  shell  of  an  e^  will  remove  bits  of  shell  from  broken 
e^^  much  better  than  a  spoon. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


20  THE   LAUREL 

My  mother  taught  me  to  use  too  little  rather  than  too  much 
salt  in  foods,  saying  it  was  easier  to  add  it  than    to   take  it  out. 

Salt  varies  so  much  in  saltness  that  it  is  impossible  to  give 
definite  rules  for  its  use. 

Have  a  shetf  over  the  stove  for  zwieback,  crackers  and  toasted 
cereals  to  keep  them  crisp. 

Keep  a  dish  of  oil  on  or  near  your  work  table. 

Have  a  small  tin  of  pastry  flour  on  the  table  to  use  for  thick- 
ening sauces;  also  a  small  bowl  or  tin  of  sugar,  and  one  of  corn 
starch  if  using  it  frequently,  and  a  box  of  salt,  of  course. 

If  a  thickened  mixture  is  allowed  to  any  more  than  boil  up 
well,  after  lemon  juice  is  added,  it  will  become  thin. 

Finely -si  iced,  tender,  raw  celery  is  much  to  be  preferred  to 
cooked,  in  timbales,  croquettes,  batters  and  sauces. 

Never  chop  celery;  slice  it  fine  Instead. 

The  word  "meat"  as  used  in  this  book  refers  to  true  meats, 
not  flesh  meats,  but  is  confined  to  such  foods  as  are  rich  in  pro- 
teids,  not  being  taken  in  its  broadest  sense. 

Use  soft  butter  for  oiling  molds  to  be  decorated,  as  that  holds 
the  decorations  better  than  oil. 

To  unmold,  dip  the  mold  in  hot  water  a  moment. 

Both  oil  and  crumb  molds  for  delicate  fillings. 

Dip  molds  in  cold  water,  invert  and  turn  quickly  right  side  up 
without  draining,  for  gelatine  and  other  fillings  to  be  served  cold. 

Many  foods  gain  in  richness  of  flavor  by  being  reheated;  and 
for  that  reason,  left  overs  often  make  more  appetizing  dishes 
than  fresh  cooked  foods. 

Reheat  foods,  legumes,  vegetables,  cereals,  or  fruits,  to  pre- 
serve them,  before  they  begin  to  show  signs  of  spoiling. 

Only  a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  proportionately,  should  be  ad- 
ded to  yolks  of  eggs,  or  they  will  gather  in  small,  hard  particles 
and  become  useless. 


ovGoo<^lc 


Ice  water  crisps  and  freshens  such  vegetables  as  lettuce,  pars- 
ley, cabbage  and  cucumbers  as  that  just  a  little  warmer  will  not. 

In  multiplying  a  recipe  to  make  a  larger  quantity  of  soup  or 
other  liquid  food,  use  a  smaller  proportion  of  liquid;  or  in  dishes 
containing  thickening  take  a  larger  proportion  of  flour,  as  the 
evaporation  is  not  so  great  in  [voportion  to  the  quantity. 

The  alcohol  of  yeast  or  of  flavoring  extracts  goes  oft  in  the 
steam  in  cooking. 

When  eggs  are  used  in  cakes,  breads,  puddings  or  other  dishes, 
fewer  nuts,  nut  foods,  legumes  or  other  proteid  foods  will  be  re- 
quired. 

Bake  souffles  and  dishes  made  light  with  eggs,  slowly,  as  when 
baked  rapidly  they  puff  up  quickly  and  fall  just  as  quickly;  while 
if  baked  slowly,  they  retain  their  lightness. 

Timbales,  puddings  and  all  molds  to  be  served  hot  should  stand 
5  or  ID  m.  in  a  warm  place  after  removing  from  the  fire,  before 
un  molding. 

Place  a  cold  wet  towel  over  pudding  molds  to  loosen,  if  in- 
clined to  stick. 

Do  not  chop  nut  meats  fine  for  roasts,  cakes  or  puddings. 
Sometimes  leaves  them  whole,  or  just  break  them  a  little. 

To  try  vegetables  for  tenderness,  use  a  sharp  pointed  knife 
rather  than  a  fork. 

Batter  and  plum  puddings  and  brown  bread  may  be  steamed  in 
the  oven  by  setting  the  mold  containing  them  into  a  vessel  of 
water  with  a  tight  fitting  cover. 

To  steam  in  glass,  set  dishes  or  jars  first  into  cold  water  and 
bring  to  boiling,  then  set  into  steamer. 

Honey  attracts  moisture,  consequently  it  should  be  kept  in  a 
warm  dry  place. 

In  discarding  unwholesome  foods  be  sure  to  put  something 
wholesome  in  their  place;  in  other  words,  employ  a  system  of 
substitution  rather  than  one  of  subtraction. 


ovGoo<^lc 


22  THE   LAUREL 

For  instance,  for  this  book  we  have  taken  pains  to  search  out 
a  variety  of  harmless  flavorings  to  be  used  in  place  of  the  irritat- 
ing condiments,  such  as  mustard,  pepper,  ginger,  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  cloves;  and  instead  of  the  acetic  acid  of  vinegar,  we  use 
lemon  juice — citric  acid. 

"Vinegar — acetic  acid,  is  about  ten  times  as  strong  as  alcohol 
and  makes  more  trouble  in  the  stomach  than  any   of   the   other 
acids  except  oxalic. " — Dr.  Rand. 
"Do  not  eat  largely  of  salt." 

"Very  hot  food  ought  not  to  betaken  into  the  stomach.  Soups, 
puddings  and  other  articles  of  the  kind  are  often  eaten  too  hot, 
and  as  a  consequence  the  stomach  is  debilitated." 

Many  people  can  digest  cream  better  when  accompanied  by  an 
acid  fruit. 

While  using  oil  enough  to  keep  the  machinery  of  the  body 
lubricated,  take  care  not  to  use  too  much.  People  with  dilated 
stomachs  can  take  very  little,  and  that  little  best  in  salad  dress- 
ings or  as  shortening  with  flour. 

Malt  gives  flesh  but  not  strength;  too  much  is  harmful. 

Flesh  is  more  often  a  sign  of  disease  than  of  health.  Good 
solid  firm  muscle  is  to  be  cultivated. 

Taste  is  a  matter  of  education.  Let  us  educate  ourselves  to 
like  the  things  that  are  good  for  us. 

"Perseverance  in  a  self-denying  course  of  eating  and  drinking 
will  soon  make  plain,  wholesome  food  palatable,  and  it  will  be 
eaten  with  greater  satisfaction  than  the  epicure  enjoys  over  his 
rich  dainties." 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


GENERAL  33 

UEA8UBEUSHT8 

Flour  is  always  sifted  once  before  measuring  and  is  laid  into 
the  measure  lightly  with  a  spoon  to  just  level,  without  being 
shaken  down;  when  measured  otherwise,  results  will  not  be  cor- 
rect. 

The  measurements  of  tablespoons  and  teaspoons  in  this  book 
are  for  slightly  rounded  spoons,  as  granulated  sugar  would  be 
when  the  spoon  is  shaken  sidewise.  This  seems  the  natural  way 
of  measuring.  When  level  spoons  are  specified,  the  spoon  is 
leveled  off  with  a  spatula  or  the  straight  edge  of  a  knife. 

The  half-pint  cup  is  the  standard  measuring  cup. 

A  cupful  is  all  the  cup  will  hold  without  running  over. 
A  speck equals  K  saltspn. 


1  saltspn 

2  teaspns 

i}4  dessert  spn 

3  teaspns 

I  tablespn.  sugar  or  corn  starch  . 
3  level  tablespns.  cracker  crumbs 
9K  tablespns.  granulated  sugar  . 
15/^  level  tablespns. 

3  tablespns.  liquid 

4  tablespns.  liquid  ....*... 
4.H  level  tablespns.  butter   .    .    , 

3  rounded  tablespns.  butter  .    .    . 

13  tablespns.  liquid 

I  wine  glass 

I  gill 

I  cup , 

1  tumbler 

4  gills— 3  cups 

2  pints 

4  quarts 

2  cups  (i  pint)  granulated  sugar   . 
i/4  cups  powdered  sugar  .... 


)^  teaspn. 

I  dessert  spn. 

I  tablespn. 

I  tablespn. 
1/^  level  tablespn. 
H  cup. 

I   cup. 

I  cup. 
H  cup. 

yi  cup. 

>i  cup. 
yi  cup. 
I  cup. 

a  cup. 

}4  cup. 
H  pint. 
/4  pint. 
I  pint. 
I  quart. 
I  gallon. 
I  pound. 
I  pound. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


34  1'HE   LAUREL 

ifi  cups  li^ht  or  medium  brown  sugar    . 

i  cups  butter 

4  cups  good  pastry  flour 

3/4 — 3?6  cups  good  bread  flour   .... 
3^4  plus,  cups  rice 

3  cups  seeded  raisins 

3^^  cups  currants 

4  cups  desiccated  cocoanut 

I  pint  milk  or  water 

1  rounded  tablespn.  butter 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

2  tablespns.  oil 

[  cup  of  oil 

3  rounded  tablespns.  flour 

I  rounded  tablespn.  sugar 

1/4  level  tablespn.  table  salt 

8  eggs  in  shell 

\o  eggs  out  of  shell 

13  ears  of  corn 

I  ear  of  corn 

iS  roots  of  oyster  plant 

I  bunch  of  oyster  plant 

I  bunch  of  oyster  plant 


5  [  pound 
1  pound 
I  pound 
1  pound 
I  pound 
I  pound 
I  pound 
I  pound 
I  pound 
I  ounce 

1  ounce 

2  ounces 
I'A  ounce 
6K  ounces 
I  ounce 

1  ounce 
I  ounce 
I  pound 
I  pound 

3  cups  grated  corn 
%  cup  grated  corn 

i}i  qt.  sliced 
yi  qt.  sliced 
I  pt.  aftercooking 


FLATOBZHOS 

If  we  heed  the  injunction  of  the  wise  man  to  eat  for  strength 
and  not  for  drunkenness,  we  will  exclude  the  burning,  irritating 
condiments  from  our  dietary,  since  they  by  causing  a  feverish 
state  of  the  system  and  creating  "a  thirst  which  water  cannot 
quench,"  are  among  the  greatest  causes  of  inebriety. 

When  our  sense  of  taste  is  not  benumbed  or  destroyed  by 
harmful  accompaniments  we  are  in  a  condition  to  keenly  enjoy 
the  thousands  of  fine,  delicate  flavors  that  our  loving  Father  has 
placed  in  wholesome  foods. 


ovGoo<^lc 


GENERAL  35 

Among  the  stronger  flavors  for  those  who  do  not  at  once  en- 
joy the  deHcate  ones,  we  have  sage,  savory,  thyme,  marjoram, 
rosemary,  bay  leaf,  garlic,  onion,  chives  and  leeks. 

Then  come  celery  salt  and  seed,  leaves  and  stalks;  lemon 
thyme,  shallots,  spearmint,  parsley,  basil  and  tarragon. 

The  flavors  of  carrots,  turnips,  cabbage  and  spinach  have 
their  place. 

The  small  leaf  buds  of  sassafras  may  be  dried  and  ground  for 
soaps  and  stews. 

Celery  leaves  dried  with  gentle  heat  make  excellent  flavorings. 
They  may  be  powdered  by  rubbing  through  a  wire  strainer  the 
same  as  leaf  sage. 

Crush  stalks  of  celery  and  let  them  stand  in  the  soup  or 
sauce  to  be  flavored  for  1 5  m.,  then  remove  them. 

For  a  fresh  positive  onion  flavor,  let  slices  of  onion  stand  in 
the  food  for  5  or  10  m. 

The  flavor  of  garlic  is  usually  obtained  by  rubbing  the  dish  in 
which  the  food  is  to  be  served  or  the  spoon  with  which  it  is  stir- 
red with  the  cut  surface  of  one  of  the  cloves  or  sections.  Slice 
it  and  crush  it  with  salt  when  using  it  in  cooked  foods.  One 
clove  will  flavor  a  large  quantity. 

Use  bay  leaf  in  the  proportion  of  one  large  leaf  to  a  quart  of 
liquid. 

As  far  as  possible  raise  your  own  herbs.  If  in  no  other  way, 
plant  them  in  pots  and  boxes  in  the  house.  Somewhere  I  have 
seen  the  suggestion  of  planting  parsley  in  holes  in  the  sides  of  a 
barrel  which  has  been  sawed  in  two,  and  such  plants  as  sage, 
thyme,  mint,  basil  and  tarragon  in  the  top. 

Gather  herbs  before  flowering,  dry  in  the  shade,  tie  in  paper 
sacks  and  hang  in  a  dry  place.  Powder  only  a  small  quantity  at 
a  tim^  and  keep  in  close  covered  small  jars.  Fresh  herbs,  es- 
pecially mint  and  tarr^on,  when  obtainable,  are  far  superior  to 
dry  ones. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


26  THE   LAUREL 

The  fact  that  raising  any  oil  to  a  temperature  high  enough  to 
brown  it,  decomposes  it  and  produces  a  poisonous  acid — a  power- 
ful irritant — is  one  of  the  best  known  to  science. 

Flour  is  rendered  more  digestible  by  browning  and  when  com- 
bined with  cream,  oil  or  butter,  gives  the  browned  oil  flavor 
without  the  poison. 

To  prepare  browned  flour,  sift  bread  flour  into  a  broad  flat 
pan,  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  oven,  stirring  occasionally,  until  thor- 
oughly dry,  then  gradually  increase  the  heat  of  the  oven,  stir- 
ring often,  until  the  desired  degree  of  brownness  is  reached. 

A  delicate  cream  color,  so  light  that  you  would  hardly  know 
there  was  any  color  except  by  comparing  it  with  flour  that  had 
not  been  in  the  oven,  gives  a  delightfully  meaty  flavor  to  some 
gravies  and  sauces.  A  light  or  medium  brown  is  convenient  to 
have  at  times,  but  the  one  most  useful  is  the  dark  chestnut 
brown.  The  darker  it  is  the  longer  it  will  last,  as  less  of  it  will 
be  required  for  flavoring. 

To  obtain  this  color  a  very  high  degree  of  heat  will  be  required 
at  the  last,  with  almost  constant  stirring.  As  this  dark  flour 
lasts  so  long  (I  seldom  make  it  more  than  once  in  a  year  for  a 
large  family),  it  pays  to  give  it  the  necessary  attention  at  every 
st^e.  Do  not  try  to  hurry  it.  If  you  begin  browning  it  before 
it  is  thoroughly  dry,  it  will  burn,  When  done,  sift  and  keep  in 
close  covered  can  or  jar. 

The  lightest  shade  (which  for  convenience  we  call  No.  i,  and 
the  others  No.  2  and  3)  should  be  prepared  oftener  as  it  becomes 
stale  by  standing.  No.  3  will  keep  indeflnitely.  It  is  used  for 
flavoring  only  as  it  will  not  thicken.  Where  consistency  is  de- 
sired, combine  it  with  unbrowned  flour.  No.  I  will  thicken  nearly 
as  much  as  though  it  had  not  been  in  the  oven,  and  No.  2  a  little. 

When  no  number  is  given  in  recipes  calling  for  browned  flour, 
No.  3  is  understood. 

Browned  flour,  onion  and  a  small   quantity   of  tomato  (not 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


GENERAL  27 

enough  to  give  a  tomato  taste)  combined,  form  the  basis  of  meaty 
flavors  in  foods. 

To  these,  add  sometimes  a  bay  leaf,  a  very  little  sage  and  a 
trifle  of  thyme.  Again,  add  bay  leaf,  grated  or  chopped  carrot 
and  a  very  few  celery  tops,  dried  or  fresh. 

Garlic  combines  well  with  either  of  these  combinations,  and 
powdered  or  soaked  dried  mushrooms  are  a  delightful  addition. 

Butter  (oil  or  part  oil)  and  a  little  onion  with  parsley  seem 
something  like  chicken. 

Juniper  berries  are  thought  to  give  the  flavor  of  game.  Not 
more  than  a  teaspoonful  of  crushed  berries  should  be  used  to  the 
quart  of  stew. 

Combine  flavors  so  that  no  one  is  prominent  but  the  whole 
combination  pleasing. 

Use  herbs  and  all  strong  flavorings  sparingly.  One  colored 
cook  of  experience  expressed  it  when  she  said,  "I  put  in  just  a 
trifle  of  sage,  not  enough  to  make  it  vulgar." 

Withal,  have  a  variety;  do  not  use  the  same  flavors  day  after 
day. 

Brown  Onion  Flavor 
For  sauces,  soups  and  croquettes. 

Cook  together  sliced  onions,  browned  flour  and  oil  with  salt 
and  water  until  onions  are  tender;  strain,  keep  in  cool  place. 

FOB  SWEETS 

Steep  peach' leaves  in  water  for  almond  flavor. 

Finely-ground  coriander  seed  is  a  dehghtful  and  not  unwhole- 
some flavoring.  It  is  cheaper  to  buy  the  seed  by  the  pound.  A 
half  pound  will  go  a  long  way.     Do  not  grind  too  much  at  a  time. 

Ground  anise  seed  in  minute  quantities  is  unequaled  for  some 
things,  but  is  disagreeable  when  used  too  liberally. 

For  sweet  dishes  to  be  flavored  with  lemon  or  orange,  score 
the  rind  of  the  fruit  lightly  with  a  sharp-tined  fork.     Drop  the 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


28  THE    LAUREL 

scored  fruit  into  the  measured  sugar  and  rub  it  well  with  the  sugar. 

Another  way  of  obtaining  the  flavor,  also  of  grape  fruit,  is  to 
pour  boiling  water  over  the  thinly-pared  yellow  rind  and  when 
cold,  strain.  For  salads,  let  that  thin  rind  stand  in  the  lemon 
or  other  fruit  juices  for  a  time  and  then  remove. 

When  obliged  to  use  lemon  or  orange  extracts,  use  only  a  few 
drops  instead  of  the  teaspoonful  of  the  average  recipe. 

Rose  is  another  of  the  delightful  flavors  to  be  used   sparingly. 

To  flavor  with  cocoanut,  when  the  fibre  is  not  desired,  steep 
(do  not  boil)  the  cocoanut  in  milk  for  1 5-20  m. ,  then  strain  it  out. 

SALAD  FLAvoBnras 

To  flavor  lemon  juice  for  cooked  or  uncooked  dressings,  take 
to  each  three  tablespns.  of  lemon  juice  and  one  of  water,  a  slice 
of  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  and  %  teaspn.  of  celery  seed  or  i  tablespn. 
of  chopped  celery  leaves.  Boil  a  moment,  then  coo!  and  strain. 
Tarr^on  and  chives  may  be  used  for  the  flavorings.  Onion, 
bay  leaf,  thyme,  a  trifle  of  garlic  if  liked,  and  a  few  thin  yellow 
slices  of  orange  peel  make  another  combination. 

The  salad  dish  is  sometimes  rubbed  with  the  cut  surface  of  a 
clove  of  garlic  or  a  slice  of  onion,  or  onion  may  be  chopped  or 
grated.  Crushed  celery  seed  is  liked  by  some  in  salad  dressings. 
Spearmint  is  very  refreshing.  Delicate  tender  sassafras  leaves 
may  be  used  in  fruit  and  nut  meat  salads. 

Shredded  fresh  mint  combines  well  with  orange  or  grape  fruit 
or  with  currant  juice;  tarragon  with  red  raspberries  and  currants, 
and  basil  with  peaches. 

In  closing  the  subject  of  flavorings,  I  quote  the  words  of  a 
lady  visitor  after  sampling  some  of  the  dishes  prepared  by  a  class 
in  cookery: 

"Any  one  can  give  a  taste  to  foods  by  adding  condiments  and 
flavorings,  but  to  develop  the  flavors  of  the  foods  themselves  is 
an  art.  " 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


GENERAL  20 

QABITISHZirQ 

The  saying  that  "some  people  eat  with  their  eyes"  is  true  to  a 
great  extent  of  all  of  us.  I  believe  that  the  veriest  savage 
would  better  enjoy  his  dinner,  however  rude,  if  somewhere  there 
were  tucked  into  it  a  bit  of  green.  The  busy  farmer's  wife  as 
she  goes  to  the  wood  pile  for  an  armful  of  wood  can  quickly  pick 
off  a  spray  of  May  weed,  dropping  it  into  a  tin  of  cold  water  as 
she  passes  the  water  pail,  and  her  platter  of  beans  for  dinner  is 
transformed,  in  the  eyes  of  those  children,  into  a  thing  of  beauty, 
and  what  effect  may  it  not  have  in  the  formation  of  their  char- 
acters? 

Of  variety  in  garnishing  there  need  be  no  lack  with  the  gar- 
den, wayside  and  woods  abounding  in  beautiful  leaves,  vines  and 
flowers. 

There  are  foliage  plant,  geranium,  and  autumn  leaves,  ferns 
in  variety,  with  lettuce,  endive,  spinach,  parsley,  chervil  and 
carrot  tops.  The  variegated  variety  of  beet  leaves,  as  also  the 
bright  blossoms  of  nasturtiums  make  a  brilliant  garnish. 

Put  parsley,  ferns,  and  all  of  the  green  leaves  and  vines  into 
very  cold  water  as  soon  as  gathered  and  leave  for  some  time, 
then  keep  in  paper  sacks  in  a  cold  place  away  from  the  wind. 
Repeat  the  cold  water  bath  at  intervals. 

Barberries  canned,  or  preserved  in  brine,  candied  cranberries 
or  cherries,  green  grapes  in  brine,  designs  cut  from  orange,  lemon 
grape  fruit  and  tangerine  rinds,  tomatoes  in  slices  or  in  length- 
wise pieces,  and  slices  of  lemon  or  orange  with  the  skin  on  are 
all  suitable  garnishes  at  times. 

Lemon  cups,  having  a  slice  cut  off  from  the  ends  so  that  they 
will  stand,  may  be  used  for  mayonnaise  or  small  servings  of  salad. 

Orange  and  grape  fruit  halves  with  tops  notched  or  scalloped 
or  sometimes  cut  in  deep  points  rolled  down,  and  orange  baskets 
make  a  change  of  service.     All  of  these  fruit  cups  should  be  kept 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


30  THE   LAUREL 

in  ice  water  or  chopped  ice  until  serving  time,  then  thoroughly 
dried  with  a  soft  towel. 

Blood  oranges  and  gelatine  oranges  are  novelties  for  garnishing. 

Sprays  of  maidenhair  fern  are  pretty  under  grape  fruit  and  or- 
ange cups." 

All  cups  or  glasses  containing  salads  or  creams  should  be 
served  on  doilies  on  small  plates. 

To  prepare  fringed  celery,  cut  the  stalks  into  two-  or  three-in. 
lengths,  then  slice  very  fine  from  each  end  to  within  ^-i  in.  of 
the  center  and  leave  in  ice  water  for  a  time.  Do  not  lay  in  ice 
water  before  preparing.  The  short  tender  stalks  may  have  the 
leaves  left  on  and  be  shredded  at  the  opposite  end.  Celery  leaves 
make  a  desirable  garnish. 

Cut  carrots,  beets  and  yellow  turnips  into  slices  or  sticks,  or 
into  round  pieces  with  an  open-top  thimble  or  a  round  pastry 
tube,  and  into  fancy  shapes  with  vegetable  cutters,  selecting  cut- 
ters which  have  not  sharp  points  or  slender  stems. 

Badisb  LUies 

Get  either  the  turnip  or  olive  shaped  radishes,  wash  them  well, 
trim  off  just  the  slender  tips  and  all  but  one  or  two  of  the  small- 
est leaves.  With  a  thin,  sharp  knife  cut  them  into  halves  from 
the  tip  end  almost  to  the  stem,  and  the  same  way  into  quarters 
and  eighths.  Then  carefully  loosen  the  rind  of  each  section  as 
far  down  as  it  is  cut  and  throw  the  radishes  into  ice  water,  leav- 
ing them  there  for  several  hours  or  overnight,  when  they  will 
have  bloomed  into  beautiful  lilies.  Pure  white  or  yellow  lilies 
may  be  made  from  yellow  or  white  radishes.  Serve  directly 
from  the  ice  water,  and  the  radishes  will  be  crisp  and  sweet  and 
easily  digested. 

Just  one  radish  sometimes,  in  a  spray  or  two  of  parsley  or 
chervil  is  better  than  a  more  elaborate  garnish;  a  red  radish  sliced 
or  cut  into  quarters  or  sixths  is  pretty  in  a  little  green. 


.b,Goo<^lc 


GENERAL  3 1 

Roll  Up  imperfect  leaves  of  lettuce  and  slice  in  thin  slices, 
then  pick  up  lightly  and  use  for  borders  or  nests  or  beds. 

Dry  parsley  thoroughly  in  a  towel  before  chopping.  For  roll- 
ing, spread  the  particles  out,  a  little  distance  apart,  so  as  to  just 
fleck  whatever  is  rolled  in  it. 

Use  nuts  choppied  or  in  halves  or  broken  pieces  for  borders  or 
nests  of  fruit  or  vegetable  salads;  never  put  them  into  the  dressing. 
Potato  Balls 

Potatoes  may  be  cut  into  balls  with  a  vegetable  scoop,  boiled 
until  just  tender,   not  broken,   drained,  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley  and  used  for  garnishing  a  true  meat  dish. 
Egg  Daisies 

Cut  the  hard  boiled  yolks  of  eggs  into  round  pieces  and  the 
whites  into  petal  shapes  for  daisies  for  decorating  the  tops  of 
small  spinach  or  other  timbales  or  molds. 

The  whites  and  yolks  are  better  poached  separately  for  gar- 
nishing.     Cut  whites  with  vegetable  cutters  sometimes, 
Oxeye  Daisies 

Use  the  end  of  a  small  black  olive  for  the  center  of  daisies,  and 
carrots  for  the  leaves. 

Toast  points  or  croutons  of  different  shapes  are  suitable  gar- 
nishes for  timbales,  eggs,  broiled  mushrooms  and  true  meat  or 
vegetable  stews,  or  we  may  use  pieces  of  bread  of  different  shapes 
that  have  been  dipped  in  egg  yolks  and  milk  and  baked.  Breaded 
triangles,  squares  or  circles,  of  corn  meal  porridge  may  be  used 
to  garnish  the  e<^e  of  a  platter  for  a  stew. 

Serve  some  creamed  dishes  or  stews  in  shells  of  pastry, 

Turk's  head  and  border  molds  may  be  decorated  with  truffles 
or  other  decorations,  and  used  for  meat  dishes  for  variety. 

Button  mushrooms  may  be  used  for  garnishing  individual  tim- 
bales. 

Cut  left  overs  of  pie  crust  or  cracker  dough  into  fancy  shapes, 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


32  THE    LAUREL 

for  scalloped  dishes,  salads  and  some  desserts,  and  into  squares, 
diamonds  or  strips  for  peas  and  other  vegetables. 

For  legumes  or  other  meat  dishes,  sometimes  use  carrots  in 
dice  or  slices,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley  or  interspersed 
with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Lemon  Points. — Cut  slices  of  lemon  into  four  or  six  parts. 

Pastry  Bag 

The  pastry  bag  gives  variety  in  garnishing  and  decorating.  The 
bag  itself  may  be  of  rubber,  paper  or  cloth.  Cloth  for  all  pur- 
poses is  the  most  practical.  To  make,  take  "Indian  Head"  or 
other  heavy  cloth,  cut  it  into  any  sized  square  desired;  fold  and 
sew  together  in  cornucopia  shape  (the  seam  is  better  felled),  trim 
the  top  evenly  and  hem;  then  cut  off  a  very  little  from  the  point 
and  hem  that,  leaving  the  opening  just  large  enough  to  insert 
the  tubes  one-third  to  one-half  their  length. 

Paper  bags  may  be  used  in  an  emergency,  and  rubber  for  some 
purposes,  but  not  for  anything  containing  oil. 

Mashed  peas  and  potatoes  should  not  be  too  dry  (or  decorating. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  and  whipped  cream  should  be  stiff,  as 
also  meringues. 

C0L0BIN06 
Pokeberry — Carmine 

Cover  berries  with  water,  boil  till  the  skins  break,  strain,  add 
I  cup  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice;  boil,  bottle,  seal. 

For  Red,  cook  strained  tomato  to  a  thick  pulp:  or  slice  a  bright 
red  raw  beet  into  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  on  the  stove  where 
it  will  heat  slowly  to  a  little  below  the  boiling  point  and  strain. 

For  Green,  bruise  parsley,  spinach,  chervil,  onion  tops,  chives, 
tarr^on  or  lettuce,  with  or  without  lemon,  and  press  out  the 
juice  for  coloring. 

For  YelloiVy  steep  saffron  in  boiling  water  for  ^-i  hour  and 
strain  when  cold. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


When  these  colorings  are  not  suitable,  the  so-called  "fruit 
colors"  for  sale  at  the  groceries  may  be  used.  Use  only  enough 
for  delicate  shades. 

ABBAiraEMEirT  AITD  GABITISHINa  OF  SAI.AD8 

The  arrangement  and  garnishing  of  salads  depends  largely 
upon  individual  taste  and  skill  in  the  use  of  things  at  hand,  and 
is  a  matter  of  importance. 

The  garnish  should  be  a  suitable  one  and  should  harmonize 
with  the  ingredients  of  the  salad.  For  example,  a  dainty  flower 
or  vine  with  a  delicate  fruit  salad,  and  slices  or  fancy  shapes  of 
vegetables  with  true  meat  salads. 

Red  apple,  or  tomato  cups  may  be  used  for  light  colored  salads, 
and  yellow  tomato,  or  green  and  white  apple  cups  for  bright  ones. 

Juicy  fruit  salads  should  be  served  in  dainty  glasses  or  cups; 
and  a  correspondingly  dainty  doily  on  the  plate  underneath  the 
glass  with  a  delicate  flower  or  leaf  by  its  side,  leaves  nothing  to 
be  desired. 


We  do  not  attain  perfection  by  striving  to  do  something  out 
of  the  common. 

Perfection  is  acquired  by  doing  the  common  things  uncom- 
monly well." — Mowry. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


FKUITS— PBESH 

"Man  has  always  thrived  as  he  has  eaten  freely  of  fruits." 
—H.  Irving  Hancock. 

"The  best  food  on  this  planet  is  ripe  fruit.  The  healthiest 
people  on  the  globe  are  the  fruit  eaters  of  tropical  countries. 
The  great  muscular  Maoris  of  New  Zealand  are  a  frugiverous  race. 
I  have  seen  a  boat  crew  of  these  great  chocolate  colored  giants 
that  would  outrow  the  'crack '  university  crews  were  they  prop- 
erly trained.  The  bread  fruit  of  the  Samoan  Islands  has  made  a 
race  of  giants.  I  have  examined  these  men  and  women  on  their 
native  soil  and  finer  human  specimens  never  lived." — Dr.  Paul 
Edwards. 

"The  more  we  depend  upon  the  fresh  fruit  just  as  it  is  plucked 
from  the  tree,  the  greater  will  be  the  blessing." 

"It  would  be  well  for  us  to  do  less  cooking  and  to  eat  more 
fruit  in  its  natural  state.  Eat  freely  of  fresh  grapes,  apples, 
peaches,  pears,  berries  and  all  other  kinds  of  fruit  that  can  be 
obtained." 

Fruits  supply  sugar,  acids,  mineral  matter  and  bulk.  The 
mineral  elements  of  fruits  are  more  readily  assimilated  than  those 
of  flesh  meat  and  vegetables.  Acid  fruits  aid  in  the  digestion  of 
nuts  and  other  nitrogenous  foods.  Acid,  juicy  fruits  keep  the 
system  clean  and  free  from  germs.  They  render  lime  and  soda 
salts  soluble,  enabling  the  system  to  throw  them  oft.  They  al- 
lay instead  of  creating  thirst.  Alcohol  and  tobacco  cannot  stay 
long  with  the  individual  who  uses  no  flesh  foods  and  partakes 
freely  of  ripe  juicy  fruits.  Use  more  fruit  and  fewer  vegetables 
if  you  would  not  experience  thirst. 

Cane  sugar  is  not  digested  in  the  stomach  but  causes   fermen- 

(34) 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


FRUITS  35 

tation  by  hindering  the  digestion  of  other  foods.  The  sugar  of 
fruits  (grape  and  fruit  sugar,  so-ca'.led),  and  that  of  honey  are  all 
ready  for  assimilation,  so  require  less  labor  on  the  part  of  the 
body  and  may  be  used  more  rapidly  for  the  repair  of  muscular 
fatigue. 

The  laxative  effect  of  fruit  rs  very  important.  Very  ripe  bana- 
nas taken  when  the  stomach  is  empty  often  produce  immediate 
effect.  Pineapples  after  nitrogenous  foods,  ripe  olives,  peaches, 
pears  and  nearly  all  fruits  are  helpful. 

It  is  better  to  use  the  juice  and  pulp  only,  of  seedy  fruits  like 
blackberries  and  black  raspberries.  With  many  people  the  seed* 
produce  hives. 

The  matter  of  bulk  in  the  diet  is  an  important  one.  The  w  hcle 
digestive  tract  suffers  if  there  is  not  a  fairly  good  bulk  of  food  to 
be  handled  by  it,  yet  serious  results  follow  when  a  large  quantity 
of  concentrated  food  is  consumed;  consequently,  fruits  and  green 
vegetables  being  composed  largely  of  water  supply  just  what  is 
needed. 

Fruit  must  be  thoroughly  ripened,  sound  and  well  matured. 
Many  unripe  fruits  contain  raw  starch  which  causes  trouble  when 
they  are  eaten. 

The  largest  fruit  of  its  kind  is  usually  the  cheapest.  It  is  poor 
economy  to  spend  money  and  (if  the  fruit  requires  paring)  time, 
for  seeds,  skins,  and  cores.  Besides,  as  a  rule  the  larger  fruit  is 
more  perfectly  matured,  so  more  wholesome  as  well  as  of  a  finer 
flavor. 

Do  not  use  the  skins  of  fruits  much.  They  are  composed 
lai^ely  of  woody  fibre  and  are  intended  only  for  a  covering  to  the 
fruit.  In  the  days  of  stomach  washes,  the  skins  of  fruits  were 
noticeably  abundant  in  the  "unswallowed"  food. 

For  the  best  effect,  fruits  should  be  used  without  sugar.  When 
one  has  accustomed  himself  to  the  use  of  grape  fruit  and  oranges 
without  sugar,  the  addition  of  it  will  make  them  positively  disa- 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


36  THE   LAUREL 

greeable  to  his  taste,  besides  causing  rebellion  in  the  stomach. 

Since  acids  hinder  the  digestion  of  starch,  it  is  better  to  take 
acid  fruits  at  the  close  of  a  meal  including  starchy  foods,  and  we 
should  especially  avoid  taking  starches  and  acids  into  the  mouth 
at  the  same  time,  before  the  starch  has  been  acted  upon  by  the 
saliva. 

There  is  great  opportunity  for  the  display  of  artistic  skill  in 
serving  fresh  fruits,  and  nothing  so  well  repays  a  little  effort  as 
the  combination  of  leaves,  ferns  and  vines  with  fruits.  One 
beautiful  dish  that  I  remember  was  of  plums,  grapes  and  peaches 
with  autumn  leaves;  another,  with  rich  branches  of  foliage  plants 
and  a  variety  of  fruits.  Grape  leaves  combine  beautifully  with 
fruits. 

One  person  with  whom  I  am  acquainted  can  use  no  starchy 
foods.  The  many  attempts  which  she  has  made  to  use  them  in- 
variably result  in  her  becoming  extremely  weak,  and  helpless 
with  rheumatism;  but  she  thrives  on  a  diet  composed  almost  ex- 
clusively of  acid  fruits  and  nuts.  She  writes — "On  my  fruit  and 
nut  diet  I  seldom  feel  thirst,  but  after  eating  even  starchless 
vegetables  I  suffer  exceedingly  from  it.  I  find  also  that  I  do  not 
require  so  much  sleep  as  when  living  on  another  diet."  Her 
chief  fruits  are  sour  apples,  grape  fruit,  oranges  and  mealy-ripe 
bananas  with  a  few  raisins,  dates  and  figs  occasionally  for  dessert. 
She  is  at  her  best  when  currants  are  ripe;  and  takes  them  every 
day  as  long  as  they  can  be  obtained. 
APPLES 

The  apple,  of  which  there  are  said  to  be  over  20OO  varieties, 
has  no  equal  as  an  "all-round"  fruit;  but  it  is  at  its  best  just 
pared  and  eaten  raw.  It  requires  thorough  mastication  both 
for  digestion  and  enjoyment. 

When  you  are  not  feeling  quite  at  par,  cut  an  apple  in  two 
from  stem  to  blossom  end  and  with  a  round  pointed  knife  scrape 
it  into  a  fine  pulp  from  either  side.     It  is  most  refreshing  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  37 

easily  digested  so.      Children  and  people  whose  teeth  are  defect- 
ive can  take  it  best  that  way. 

The  apple  is  the  choicest  salad  fruit. 
BANANAS 

The  fact  that  the  banana  is  a  serious  cause  of  indigestion  when 
just  turned  yellow  is  quite  generally  understood,  and  fruit  eaters 
now  buy  them  and  keep  them  until  they  become  not  just  soft, 
but  mellow  ripe,  which  will  be  after  the  skins  are  dark  or  covered 
with  dark  spots.  As  long  as  they  have  a  "pasty"  feeling  in  the 
mouth  they  are  unfit  for  food  because  the  starch  is  not  yet 
changed  to  sugar. 

Do  not  try  to  hurry  the  ripening  process  as  bananas  are  bet- 
ter when  ripened  slowly.  Keep  them  in  the  dark,  in  a  not  too 
cold  place  and  give  them  plenty  of  time.  Large,  plump  bananas 
are  farsuperior  to  small  slender  ones  in  wholesomeness  and  flavor, 
besides  being  cheaper. 

There  is  no  other  way  of  using  bananas  to  compare  with 
eating  them  "out  of  hand"  with  the  skin  and  fibres  removed; 
but  they  may  be  served  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice  for  luncheon 
or  with  whipped  cream  for  dessert. 

Almond  cream  is  very  harmonious  with  bananas.     Peeled  ba- 
nanas with  a  little  almond  butter  accompanying  each  mouthful 
make  a  complete  and  delightful  luncheon.     Brazil  nut  butter 
and  cream  are  also  excellent  with  bananas. 
BLACKBERRTES 

Wild  blackberries  are  sweeter  and  finer  flavored  than  culti- 
vated ones  and  eaten  in  small  quantities  from  the  bush  are  very 
enjoyable,  but  they  should  not  be  taken  in  large  quantities  with 
their  seeds.  They  may  be  served  with  nut,  or  whipped  dairy 
cream.  With  a  thin  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  they  are  delicious. 
CANTAIiOtrPE 

Wash,  drain,  chill,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  the  seeds  with  a 


.b,Coot^lc 


38  THE    LAL'REL 

round-pointed  spoon  (not  a  sharp  pointed  knife)  or  with  the  fin- 
gers. Do  not  put  ice  inside  as  it  destroys  the  flavor.  Serve  on 
mat  of  grape  leaves. 

CUBBANTS 
Wash,  drain,  serve  on  the  stems  plain  or  around  a  mold  of 
sugar  (made  by  pressing  not  too  dry  powdered  or  granulated 
sugar  into  a  small  glass,  and  unmolding  in  the  center  of  the  plate), 
or  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  on  a  dainty  dish.  Nice,  very  ripe  cur- 
rants are  especially  refreshing  and  reviving. 

FroBt«d  Currants 
Pick  fine  even  bunches  of  currants  and  dip  them,  one  at  a 
a  time,  into  a  mixture  of  frothed  white  of  egg  and  a  very  little 
cold  water.  Drain  them  until  nearly  dry  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar.  Repeat  the  dip  in  the  sugar  once  or  twice  and  lay  them 
on  white  paper  to  dry.      Use  as  a  garnish. 

DATES  AND  NUTS 
Serve  dates  piled  on  a  dessert  plate  with  halves  of  nuts  around, 
or  on  individual  dishes  with  a  spoonful  of  any  desired  nut  butter 
or  meal  in  the  center  of  the  dish. 

DATES  ASH  CBEAU 
Slice  dates  and  cover  with  nut  or  dairy  cream.      Dairy  cream 
may  be  whipped  and  piled  in  center  of  dish  with  fruit  around. 

DATES  OB  FIOS  AND  UILE 
One  writer  on  health  subjects  recommends  dates  and   milk  or 
figs  and  milk  as  an  improvement  upon  bread  and  milk.     They 
make  an  excellent  combination  and  a  satisfying  meal. 
Nut  milk  or  nut  cream  are  ideal  for  sweet  fruits. 

FIGS 
Serve  figs  with  nuts  and  with  cream,  the  same  as  dates. 
For  Stuffed  Dates  and  Figs,  see  Confections. 


o,Goo<^lc 


GOOSEBEBBIES 

Nice  large  ripe  gooseberries  are  most  enjoyable  right  from  the 
bushes. 

GBAPES 

There  is  perhaps  no  fruit  more  highly  recommended  than  the 
grape.  One  says;  "It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  juice  of  no  other 
fruit  or  vegetable  so  strikingly  resembles  blood  in  its  composition 
as  the  unfermented  juice  of  grapes." 

Another:  "Grapes  eaten  exclusively  for  several  days  bring 
about  wonderful  results  in  the  system.  From  one  to  two  pounds 
should  be  consumed  daily  at  first,  gradually  increasing  to  eight 
or  ten  pounds." 

The  "grape  cures"  in  Franceand  Germany  are  too  well  known 
to  require  mention.  There  is  said  to  be  "a  life  giving  principle 
in  grapes  which  builds  tissue  and  stimulates  the  sympathetic 
nervous  system." 

These  quotations  apply  particularly  to  fresh  grapes.     Cooked 
grapes  and  juice  do  not  agree  with  every  one, 
TO  PACK  QRAPES 

Take  the  late  grapes,  pick  them  carefully,  spread  them  in  a 
cool  place  in  layers  on  shelves,  let  them  remain  two  weeks,  then 
pack  in  barrels  with  dry  hard-wood  sawdust.  Bran  will  answer 
very  well.  Packed  in  this  manner  the  fruit  will  keep  good 
through  the  winter  it  is  said.  After  packing,  grapes  should  be 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

GBAPE  FBUIT 

Cut  in  halves  crosswise,  remove  seeds  with  sharp  pointed  knife, 
and  separate  the  pulp  from  the  bitter  membrane  between  the 
sections.  Serve  one  half  to  each  person  in  peel  or  small  glass, 
or  serve  halves  after  removing  seeds  without  separating  pulp. 
The  fruit  should  not  be  cut  long  before  serving  as  the  juice  and 
pulp  absorb  the  bitter  of  the  cut  membrane.  Taken  at  the  close 
of  the  meal,  grape  fruit  is  an  aid  to  digestion.   The  effect  will  be 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


40  THE   LAUREL 

better  without  sugar.    As  a  dessert,  it  is  sometimes  served  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  thick  maple  syrup  in  the  center. 

OBAPB  FBTTIT  WITH  HALAQA  OXtAPEB 

Prepare  grape  fruit  as  for  salad,  combine  with  halved,  seeded 
Mal^a  grapes  and  sugar;  refill  cups  which  have  been  wiped 
dry  after  standing  in  ice  water.  Garnish  with  candied  cherries 
or  blanched  almonds. 

QBAPZ  FBTTIT  AHBBOSIA 

Mix  grape  fruit  pulp  with  orange  pulp,  grated  cocoanut  and 
sugar.  Serve,  sprinkled  with  cocoanut,  in  its  own  cups  or  in 
glasses. 

OIJVE8 

"When  properly  prepared,  olives  like  nuts  supply  the  place  of 
butter  and  flesh  meats.  Oil  as  eaten  in  the  olive  is  far  prefer- 
able to  animal  oil  or  fat.  It  serves  as  a  laxative.  Its  use  will 
be  found  beneficial  to  consumptives  and  it  is  healing  to  an  in- 
flamed, irritated  stomach." 

The  oHve  contains  more  protein  than  any  of  the  other  com- 
mon fruits,  and  with  the  exception  of  the  alligator  pear  is  the 
only  one  containing  any  appreciable  amount  of  oil.  Until  within 
a  few  years  we  have  been  eating  this  valuable  fruit  in  its  un- 
ripe state,  but  now  we  get  it,  both  imported  and  home  grown, 
ripe.  There  is  just  as  much  difference  between  a  ripe  and  green 
olive  as  between  a  ripe  and  green  apple. 

The  ripe  olive  is  black  or  dark  brown  in  color  (according  to 
where  it  was  grown)  and  has  its  full  quota  of  oil.  After  one  has 
eaten  ripe  olives  for  a  time,  the  green  ones  will  have  a  harsh, 
rank  taste  to  him.  It  is  also  much  easier  to  acquire  a  taste  for 
the  ripe  olive.  The  large,  luscious  ones  with  meat  as  thick  as 
that  of  a  good  sized  plum  afe  truly  delightful. 

Those  hurried  on  to  the  eastern  market  from  California  before 
the  holidays  are  not  thoroughly  ripened,  but  there  are  some 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  41 

growers  who  hold  them  until  properly  matured  before  gathering. 
Olives  are  better  just  soaked  a  Httle  and  eaten  in  that  state  than 
to  be  used  in  cooked  dishes;  but  when  used  in  soups  or  sauces, 
add  without  cooking  just  before  serving. 

Ripe  ohves  are  a  valuable  substitute  for  butter  with  bread, 
giving  an  emulsified  oil  instead  of  a  free  fat,  with  no  germs  of 
tuberculosis  or  other  diseases. 

The  dried  olives  sold  by  Italian  grocers  require  a  long  soaking 
and  several  changes  of  water.  They,  too,  become  stronger 
flavored  by  cooking.  They  are  considerably  cheaper  than  the 
bottled  ones  but  much  less  delicate  in  flavor. 

OBANQES 

"The  one  thing  that  quickest  revives  a  human  being  is  orange 
juice." — Dr.  Paul  Edwards. 

"The  orange  is  a  fruit  that  is  distinctly  health-giving.  Orange 
juice  aids  greatly  in  reducing  the  amount  of  putrefaction  in  the 
intestines  of  nearly  all  persons  who  are  submitted  to  clinical 
laboratory  tests. " — H.  Irving  Hancock,  in  *' Good  Housekeeping." 

The  white  separating  membrane  of  the  orange  is  rather  indi- 
gestible, so  in  many  cases  it  is  better  to  use  the  juice  or  pulp  only. 

I  am  going  to  tell  you  how  to  "drink"  oranges.  First,  cut 
the  orange  in  halves  from  end  to  end,  then  cut  each  half  in  three 
or  four  pieces;  place  each  one  of  these  oblong  cups  to  the  lips 
and  extract  the  juice,  rejecting  the  seeds  and  leaving  all  the 
membrane.  This  method  is  most  refreshing,  if  not  elegant. 
Eaten  with  a  spoon  from  the  halves  cut  across  is,  next  to  this, 
most  satisfying,  but  takes  more  time. 

In  Jamaica  they  peel  oR  the  outer  yellow  skin  and  cut  the 
orange  across  into  two  unequal  portions.  They  extract  the  juice 
and  pulp  from  the  larger  stem  section  first,  and  reserve  the 
smaller,  sweeter  section  for  the  last. 

A^in,  theypeel  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  off  about  one-fourth 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


42  THE    LAUREL 

of  the  way  down,  run  the  knife  into  the  peeled  end  and  cutaway 
a  conical  portion  of  the  pulp,  thus  opening  all  of  the  sections  of 
the  orange.  They  then  suck  out  the  juice,  without  any  burned 
lips  as  the  result. 

One  nice  way  to  prepare  the  pulp  is  to  peel  the  fruit  as  you 
would  an  apple,  cutting  deep  enough  to  remove  all  the  white 
portion  of  the  covering;  then  to  cut  all  around  each  section  of 
pulp,  just  inside  the  separating  membrane,  when  you  can  remove 
the  pure  pulp.  Serve  in  glass  sauce-dish,  or  in  cups, — orange, 
glass  or  china. 

Another  dainty  and  satisfactory  way  of  preparing  an  orange  is 
to  "cut  two  circles  through  the  skin  around  the  fruit  about  J^  in. 
apart  and  half  way  between  the  two  ends.  Remove  all  the  rind 
except  the  half-inch  band.  Just  over  one  of  the  natural  separa- 
tions between  the  sections  of  the  orange,  cut  the  band  with  a 
sharp  knife.  All  the  divisions  may  then  be  carefully  separated 
one  from  another,  while  all  remain  attached  to  t\\e  girdle  of  yel- 
low rind.  ■  Oranges  may  be  laid  in  layers  on  a  fruit  plate,  out- 
stretched upon  the  narrow  piece  of  peeling,  or  they  may,  after 
the  several  divisions  heve  been  carefully  made,  be  closed  together 
again.  A  ribbon  tied  around  the  orange  over  the  rind  girdle  will 
preserve  the  spherical  form  and  be  very  pretty  and  ornamental. 
It  is  but  the  act  of  a  moment  to  untie  this  ribbon,  when  the 
sections  will  all  lie  before  one  in  perfect  readiness  to  be  eaten." 
—C/ipfii'ig. 

PEACHES 

Ripe  mellow  peaches  are  incomparable  both  for  health  and 
palatability.  They  are  equally  good  both  for  grown  people  and 
children,  though  one  writer  says  "the  ripe  mellow  peach  is  re- 
ally the  child's  fruit." 

A  friend  told  me  that  an  old  Indian  came  to  the  house  when 
her  little  brother  was  lying  at  the  point  of  death,  and  said, 
"peach  juice  will  keep  him  alive."     The   mother,   anxious  to 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  43 

leave  nothing  untried,  began  giving  him  the  juice  of  stewed 
peaches,  from  which  time  he  began  to  retain  his  food  (the  moth- 
er's milk)  and  to  improve  in  every  way.  When  he  came  to  be 
weaned,  peach  juice  and  gradually  the  soft  halves  of  peaches 
were  his  sole  diet  for  eight  months;  then  other  food*  were  intro- 
duced sparingly,  but  all  his  life  peaches  have  formed  a  large  part 
of  his  diet  and  he  is  an  unusually  well  man. 

Wash  and  carefully  rub  peaches  in  cold  water,  and  rub  them 
well  with  a  soft  cloth  in  wiping  to  remove  the  down,  which  is 
irritating. 

Peaches  should  ripen  on  the  trees;  the  shipped  ones  are  often 
suitable  for  cooking  only  as  they  are  gathered  before  they  are 
ripe.  Some  varieties  are  sour  and  disagreeable,  while  others  are 
sweet  and  luscious. 

Few  people  know  how  e.\ceedingly  delightful  rich  juicy  white 
peaches  are. 

PEACHES  AND  CBBAU 

Pare  peaches  just  as  short  a  time  before  they  are  to  be  served 
as  possible.     Cut  in  halves,   quarters  or  thick  slices.      Do  not 
sweeten  but  pass  sugar  and  unwhipped  cream  with  them.     Al- 
mond or  cocoanut  cream  are  especially  suitable  for  peaches. 
PEACH  SHOW 

Add  sweetened  cream  to  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  (J^  cup 
to  each  white)  and  pour  over  peaches  just  before  serving.  All 
must  be  cold. 

Peaches  combine  nicely  with  bananas  and  with  red  raspberries. 
The  juice  of  the  berries  may  be  served  over  the  peaches  instead 
of  cream. 

PINEAPPLES 

The  pineapple  is  another  of  the  universal  favorites  and  deser- 
vedly. Its  delightful  flavor  is  unequaled  and  the  fresh  juice 
contains  bromelin,  a  remarkably  active  principle  which  aids  di- 
gestion both  in  the  stomach  and  in  the  intestinal  tract.     A  slice 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


44  THE    LAUREL 

or  two  of  pineapple  taken  at  the  close  of  a  meal  gives  a  marked 
laxative  effect.  Th»  use  of  pineapple  in  diptheria  is  well  known. 
I  knew  a  very  successful  physician  in  one  of  our  large  cities  who 
always  had  quantities  of  pineapple  canned  each  year  for  use  in 
diphtheria  cases.  The  digestive  ferment  is  not  quite  so  active 
in  the  cooked  fruit  as  in  the  uncooked. 

SHREDDED  PINEAPPLE 

Use  only  choice  lai^e  well  ripened  sound  pineapples.  Wash 
and  drain;  give  the  crown  a  twist  with  the  hand,  when  it  will 
come  out  easily  if  the  fruit  is  ripe.  Set  the  pineapple  on  a  board 
and  with  a  large  sharp  knife  pare  it  by  cutting  slices  down  from 
the  top  all  around,  cut  thick  enough  to  remove  all  the  woody 
covering  (the  fruit  in  connection  with  that  has  very  little  flavor), 
leaving  only  the  deepest  eyes. 

After  removing  the  eyes,  take  the  pineapple  in  the  left  hand 
with  the  base  up  and  shred  it  by  picking  up  small  pieces  all  around 
with  the  tines  of  a  silver  fork.  It  will  come  of!  easily  from  that 
end,  leaving  the  core,  which  should  be  wrung  to  obtain  all  the 
juice. 

Let  the  fruit  stand  in  layers  with  sugar,  >^to  ]4  cup,  (or  % 
to  %  cup  sugar,  %  to  i  tablespn.  lemon  juice  and  X  cup  water) 
to  each  pint,  for  some  time  before  serving,  or,  serve  plain  and 
pass  sugar  with  it.  Pineapple  and  strawberries  or  raspberries  or 
oranges  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar  are  nice  alone,  or  with  cake, 
for  dessert. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  QBAPE  FRUIT 

Equal  quantities  of  prepared  pineapple  and  grape  fruit  with 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  either  poured  over. 

Peach,  orange  and  pineapple  is  another  nice  combination. 
PINEAPPLE  AND  WHIPPED  CREAM 

Drain  finely-shredded  pineapple  and  beat  with  whipped  cream, 
as  much  as  can  be  used  and  keep  the  combination  stiff.  Serve 
cold  in  glasses. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


FRUITS  45 

PnTSAPPLE  AND  STBAWBEBBY  ABfBBOSIA 

Equal  quantities  ri[>e  strawberries,  shredded  pineapple  and 
cream.  Whip  cream,  place  layer  of  pineapple  in  dish,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  cover  with  cream,  then  make  a  layer  of  strawberries, 
sugar  and  cream.  Continue.  Have  cream  on  top.  Serve  cold 
with  sponge  cake  or  cocoanut  crisps. 

FIITEAFPLE  AND  OBANQI!  AUBBOSIA 

Drained  shredded  pineapple,  orange  pulp  and  juice,  grated 
cocoanut  and  sugar,  in  layers. 

BAISINS 

Raisins  are  nutritious  and  valuable  foods,  containing  some- 
times as  high  as  6i  per  cent,  of  grape  sugar  and  a  considerable 
proportion  of  albuminoids.  They  are  suitably  combined  with  all 
kinds  of  bread  and  nuts.  One  thing  that  makes  them  so  satisfy- 
ing is  that  they  require  thorough  mastication. 
BASFBEBBIES"-ItED 

When  necessary  to  wash,  have  cold  water  in  a  deep  pan  and 
turn  the  berries  in,  not  more  than  a  quart  at  a  time.  (Do  not 
pour  the  water  over  the  berries  as  that  bruises  them.)  Rinse  up 
and  down  in  the  water  with  the  hands  and  remove  quickly  to  a 
colander.  Drain,  pile  in  dish  and  serve  at  once.  Lemon  or 
currant  juice  poured  over  makes  a  harmonious  combination.  J^ 
or  J4  very  ripe  currants  may  be  mixed  with  the  berries.  Serve 
Brazil  nuts  or  blanched  almonds  with  these  combinations. 
BASFBEBRIES— BI.ACE 

Black  raspberries  have  a  peculiar  spicy  flavor  not  found  in  any 
other  fruit  and  when  plump  and  thoroughly  ripened  may  be  used 
in  moderate  quantities  in  their  natural  state. 
STBAWBEBBIES 

The  perfect  way  to  serve  strawberries  is  the  French — with  the 
hulls  on,  without  washing.  Pass  sugar  with  them,  or  pile  the 
berriesaroundamoldof  sugar  on  individual  plates,  or,  setadainty 


o,CjOO»^Ic 


46  THE    LAUREL 

cup  or  glass  containing  sugar  in  the  center  of  the  plate  and  pile 
the  berries  around.  But  if  the  berries  are  very  sandy,  wash  the 
same  as  red  raspberries.  Wash  berries  always  before  hulling  un- 
less obliged  to  let  stand  after  hulling,  then  do  not  wash  until 
just  ready  to  serve.  The  little  strawberry  hullers  snip  the  hulls 
out  so  quickly  and  so  perfectly  without  staining  the  fingers  that 
they  seem  among  the  indispen sables  of  housekeeping, 

OBANQE  STBA.WBEBBIE8 

Put  sliced  berries  into  glasses  and  pour  sweetened  orange  juice 
over  to  more  than  cover.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  3  or  4  hrs. 
to  improve  the  color.  They  may  be  served  with  an  uncooked 
meringue  garnished  with  halves  or  quarters  of  berries  or  a  slice 
of  orange. 

WATEEMELON 

The  flavor  of  watermelon  is  better  if  cooled  in  water  instead 
of  on  ice.  To  serve  cut  the  melon  in  halves  across  and  cut  off 
pieces  from  the  ends  so  that  they  will  stand.  Serve  the  pulp  by 
spoonfuls,  scooped  out  with  a  tablespoon.  If  convenient  take 
the  pieces  out  before  sending  to  the  table,  remove  the  seeds  and 
return  the  pieces  to  the  shell,  then  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
serving  time. 

The  watermelon  furnishes  an  abundance  of  pure  distilled  water. 
Watermelons  that  are  not  very  sweet  maybe  served  with  almond 
cream  and  sugar. 

WHOBTZ.EBEBBIES 

The  most  desirable  of  this  family  is  the  large  purple  soft  pulpy 
sweet  juicy  berry  growing  in  the  swamps,  and  called  in  some 
parts  of  the  country  "blueberry. "  It  is  delightful  with  nut  or 
dairy  cream  or  with  sugar  or  in  bread  and  milk.  Its  juice  being 
so  sweet  it  is  one  of  the  most  suitable  berries  for  sauce  with 
cereals.     In  cakes  puddings  or  pies  it  is  equally  enjoyable. 

The  so-called  "huckleberry,"  though  more  seedy,  has  a  nice 
flavor  when  cooked. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


FRUITS  47 

FRUITS— COOKED 
APPLE  SAUCE 

Select  nice  tart  apples;  wash,  drain,  cut  out  the  blossom  end  of 
each  so  that  the  little  black  particles  will  not  get  on  to  the  fruit. 
Pare  as  thin  as  possible.  When  all  are  pared,  cut  into  quarters, 
and  core  by  cutting  from  both  stem  and  blossom  end  downward 
to  the  center,  just  below  the  core..,  After  coring,  throw 
enough  quarters  into  the  kettle  {granite,  porcelain  or  aluminum) 
to  about  cover  the  bottom,  and  turn  the  quarters  core  side  down. 
Then  arrange  another  layer  in  the  same  way  and  continue  until 
all  are  in.  Pour  boiling  water  over  to  half  cover  the  apples 
(more  or  less  according  to  the  juiciness  of  the  apples),  cover  ket- 
tle and  set  over  hot  fire.  Cook  without  removing  cover  until 
apples  are  perfectly  tender;  remove  from  fire  at  once,  stir  in  a 
little  sugar  if  desired  and  a  trifle  of  salt.  This  method  gives  a 
nice  white  well  cooked  sauce  with  a  fresh  apple  taste.  Placing 
the  apples  as  directed  causes  them  to  cook  tender  quickly  and 
evenly.  The  salt  improves  the  flavor  unless  too  much  is  used. 
STBAINED  APPLE  SAUCE 

When  apples  are  small  or  knotty,  cook  without  paring,  rub 
through  colander  and  add  a  little  sugar. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE 

Place  quartered  apples  in  pudding  dish  as  for  apple  sauce. 
Sprinkle  delicately  with  sugar  between  the  layers  and  over  the 
top.  Pour  water  in  at  the  side  of  the  dish  so  as  to  leave  the 
sugar  on  the  top.  Cover  and  bake  for  several  hours  until  the 
apples  assume  a  rich  red  color. 

BAKED  QUABTEBS  OF  APPLES 

Wash,  quarter  and  core  but  do  not  pare  apples:  lay  cut  side 
down  in  pudding  dish,  pour  very  little  if  any  water  over,  cover 
close,  bake  until  tender.  Remove  cover  and  dry  out  well.  Eat 
from  the  fingers,  rejecting  the  skins,  or  scrape  the  pulp  from  the 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


48  THE   LAUREL 

skin  with  a  teaspoon.  The  skin  imparts  such  richness  and  flavor 
to  the  pulp  that  it  seems  to  have  been  sweetened  with  sugar. 
BAKED  APPLES 
To  the  natural  taste,  the  apple  is  best  just  washed,  put  into  a 
baking  pan  with  little  if  any  water  (depending  upon  the  juici- 
ness of  the  apple),  covered  at  first  and  baked  until  tender  and 
dry.  Some  prefer  to  have  the  apples  cored  with  j4-i  teaspn.  of 
sugar  (brown  sugar  sometimes)  placed  in  the  core  space. 

LEMON  APPLES,  OBAHQE  APPLES,  AND  OTHEB8 

Core  and  pare  nice  lai^e  perfect  apples.  Place  in  the  core 
space  sugar  with  a  little  grated  lemon  or  orange  rind.  Sprinkle 
outside  of  apples  with  sugar  and  turn  a  little  lemon  juice  over 
for  "Lemon  Apples"  or  "Orange  Apples."  Bake  until  just  ten- 
der, with  or  without  a  little  water. 

Use  citron,  cocoanut,  raisins  or  nuts  with  sugar  for  other 
varieties.  Fill  core  space  with  jelly  for  "Jelly  Apples."  Serve 
plain  or  with  nut  cream  or  whipped  dairy  cream,  or  with  cocoa- 
nut  or  custard  sauce  or  with  wafers  or  nuts  for  dessert,  at  a  meal 
without  vegetables,  especially  starchy  vegetables. 

Lemon  and  jelly  apples  make  suitable  accompaniments  to 
meat  dishes. 

BAKED  8WEET  APPLES 

Bake  whole  with  plenty  of  water  at  first  (covered  part  of  the 
time)  until  perfectly  tender  and  all  the  water  is  evaporated. 
Serve  for  dessert,  or  for  breakfast  or  supper  with  nuts,  or  with 
nut  or  dairy  cream,  or  in  bread  and  milk,  than  which  nothing  is 
more  delicious. 

"MOTHSB"  OBANSON'S  STEWED  SWEET  APPLES 

Put  whole  apples  into  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  thin  syrup 
of  sugar  and  water  and  cook  until  tender  (carefully  changing  the 
apples  from  top  to  bottom  once  or  twice)  and  the  syrup  just  a 
little  thick.      Place  the  apples  on  plates  and  turn  the  syrup  over. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  49 

STEWED  BANANAS 
Slice  bananas,  stew  with  a  little  sugar  water  and  a  trifle  of 
ground  or  crushed  anise  seed  tied  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth. 
Prunes  may  be  flavored  the  same. 

BANAN.U  IN  BUTTEB 
Simmer  bananas  in  butter  in  an  aluminum  or  agate  frying  pan 
covered,  on  the  top  of  the  stove  where  it  is  not  too  hot.     They 
will  not  be  browned  but  simply  stewed. 

BANANAS  AND  BAI8INS 
Cook  raisins  in  a  broad  flat  pan  in  water  for  an  hour.     Slice 
bananas  over,  cover  and  cook  lo  m. 

BAEED  BANANAS 

The  simplest  way  to  bake  bananas  is  in  the  skins.     It  takes 

just  20  m.   in  a  moderate  oven.     To  eat,   strip  a  piece  of  skin 

about  an  inch  wide  from  the  top  side  and  partake  of  the  baked 

fruit  from  the  remaining  skin  in  teaspoonfuls. 

Bananas  may  be  baked  whole  with  a  little  water  after  peeling, 
and  served  with  orange  or  cream  sauce. 

A  little  melted  butter  may  be  poured  over  bananas  before  bak- 
ing or  they  may  be  rolled  in  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and  baked.  For 
a  richer  dish,  turn  mixed  melted  butter,  sugar  and  lemon  juice 
over  bananas  in  lengthwise  halves  in  agate  pan.  Bake  1 5-20  m, 
in  slow  oven.  Serve  with  meat  dishes  sometimes. 
BAKED  CBUUBED  BANANAS 
Roll  peeled  bananas  in  fine  granella,  cracker  or  zwieback 
crumbs  mixed  with  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  till  just  ten- 
der.    Serve  at  once. 

BANANAS  BAEED  WITH  TOUATOES 

Put  a  thin  layer  of  stewed  or  sliced  tomatoes  in  the  bottom  of 

a  baking  pan.     Cover  with  bananas  sliced  crosswise.     Bake. 

CBANBEBBIES 

Cranberries  are  said  to   "promote  digestion  and    purify  the 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


so  THE    LAUREL 

blood."     There  is  no  question  but  they  are  a  desirable  fruit  and 
should  be  used  freely  in  their  season. 

Stewed  Cranberriea 
I  qt.  berries,  H  cup  sugar,  i-ij^  cup  water. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  cranberries,   let  stand  2  m.,  or  until 
cold;  drain,  add  sugar  and  water,  cook  covered,  until  boiling  all 
through.      Rub  through  colander  if  the  skins  are  objectionable.. 
2-3  tablespns.  of  lemon  juice  and  more  sugar  may  be  added. 
Baked  Cranberries. 
Make  syrup  of  i  pt.  of  water  and  i  H  cup  of  sugar;  boil,  cool. 
Pour  over  i  qt.  of  cranberries  in  baking  dish.      Bake  until  clear. 
CranberrieH  Witb  Boisina 
I  qt.  berries  i  cup  sugar 

M-i  cup  seeded  raisins  i  pint  water 

Stew  raisins  in  water  until  nearly  tender;  pour  boiling  water 
over  cranberries  and  drain;  cook  all  together  until  berries  are 
done. 

A  lai^er  proportion  of  raisins  and  less  sugar  may  be  used. 

BAKED  PEACHES 
Whole,  pared,   cling-stone  peaches;  sugar,   butter  and  lemon 
juice.     Bake  40  m.       May  be  served  with  meat  dishes,   or  as 
dessert. 

BAKED  QUINCES— DeUcious 
Wash,   pare,   halve,   core.     (Save  skins  and  cores  for  jelly). 
Cover  with  a  large  quantity  of  thin  sugar  and  water  syrup.     Bake 
covered,  basting  often  and  turning  occasionally  until  tender  and 
the  syrup  rich.      Uncover  at  the  last  for  a  short  time. 
PLAIN  BAKED  QUINCES 
Pare  and  core  quinces,  bake  with  water  only,  basting.     Serve 
with  hard  or  creamy  sauce  or  with  nut  cream  and  sugar. 
BHUBABB 
Rhubarb  is  not  a  fruit  but  the  stalk  of  the  plant  and  as  its  acid 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  5 1 

is  oxalic,  it  is  a  somewhat  questionable  article  of  diet.     At  all 
events  it  should  not  be  used  freely. 

Stewed  Bliubarb 
I  qt.  rhubarb  %  cup  sugar 

Wash  rhubarb,  do  not  peel,  cut  into  Ji  in.  pieces;  cook   with 
sugar,  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  juicy;  then  stew  till  tender. 
Stewed  Bhubarb,  No.  2 
I  qt.  rhubarb  I  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

scant  ?3  cup  sugar  %  cup  water      • 

Cook  all  together. 

Baked  Bhubarb 

Put  rhubarb  in  baking  dish  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice  as  for 
stewing,  with  or  without  a  little  water.  Cover  and  bake  until 
tender. 

It  is  said  that  if  young  cherry  leaves  are  scalded  and  the  juice 
added  to  cooked  rhubarb,  it  will  impart  the  flavor  of  cherries  to 
the  rhubarb. 

STEWED  DBIED  FBUITS 

The  flavors  of  dried  fruits  are  more  natural  and  delicate  with 
prolonged  soaking  and  short  (if  any)  cooking.  Choice  dried  ap- 
ples and  apricots  are  especially  enjoyable  soaked  over  night  or 
longer  without  any  cooking.  The  juice  from  them  makes  an 
exceedingly  refreshing  drink. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  fruit  that  requires  washing  to  more 
perfectly  loosen  the  dirt,  then  quickly  add  cold  water.  Wash 
thoroughly,  cover  with  warm  water  and  let  stand  for  from  12  to 
48  hrs.  When  perfectly  swollen  and  soft,  add  sugar,  if  it  is  to 
be  used,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  quickly  and  remove  from  the 
fire.  These  directions  if  followed  will  cause  apples,  apricots  and 
peaches  to  seem  almost  like  fresh  stewed  fruit. 

A  few  fresh  grapes  stewed  with  peaches  give  them  a  nice  flavor. 

Raisins  also  (previously  cooked)  are  nice  with  dried  peaches. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


52  THE   LAUREL 

The  most  delightful  combination  with  dried  apples  is  ^  pru- 
nelles.     Raisins  are  also  nice  with  apples. 
Stewed  Dried  Apricots 
/4  lb.  apricots  3K  cups  water  J4  cup  sugar 

Follow  general  directions. 

PEUNES— SWEET  CALIFOBNIA 
These  require  no  sugar  but  will  bear  a  little  longer  cooking 
than  peaches  and  apricots, 

^   prunes  and   %   apricots   make  a  nice    combination,    also 
raisins  or  figs  and  prunes. 

Pmae  Marmalade 
Cook  prunes  with  a  small  amount  of  water  and  rub  through 
colander.  This  removes  the  skins  or  breaks  them  up  so  that 
many  can  take  them  who  otherwise  could  not.  Served  with 
almonds,  beaten  white  of  egg  or  almond  or  whipped  cream,  the 
marmalade  makes  a  nice  dessert. 

Steamed  Pmaes— par  exoellenoe 
Soak  large  prunes  in  a  very  little  water,   stirring  occasionally 
so  that  all  will  be  moistened.     Steam  ^  of  an  hour.     Cover  as 
soon  as  removed  from  the  steamer.     Serve  warm  for   breakfast. 
They  may  be  steamed  an  hour  without  soaking. 
Stewed  Figs 
Wash,  soak,    cook   until   tender,   reduce  liquor  to  syrup  and 
pour  over  fruit.      Serve  with  wafers   or   nuts   or   with    whipped 
cream  flavored  with  vanilla  or  almond. 

Steamed  Pigs — beet  of  all 
Wash  figs  and  steam  25-35   "i-   according  to  dryness.     Long 
steaming  gives  them  a  strong  flavor.      Cover,   and  serve  warm. 
The  figs  may  be  soaked  the  same  as  prunes  before  steaming. 
Fruit  Butter 
Stew  together  i}i  lb.  prunes  and  i   lb.   of  dried  apricots,  no 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


sugar.     Rub  through  colander  and  cook  to  the  consistency  of 
butter. 

TO  CAN  PBUITS 


The  best  quality  of  aluminum  is  the  ideal  material  for  the 
preserving  kettle;  but  granite,  porcelain  or  earthenware  may  be 
used. 

Thorough  sterilization  of  the  jars  or  cans  is  one  of  the  most 
important  parts  of  fruit  canning.  1  always  wash  and  sterilize 
mine  when  I  empty  them. 

After  washing  the  covers  of  Mason  jars,  bake  them  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  2  or  3  hours;  scrape  them  on  the  inside  if  neces- 
sary but  do  not  wet  them,  and  screw  them  on  to  the  jars,  which 
should  have  been  well  washed,  scalded,  wiped  with  a  clean 
towel  and  thoroughly  dried  by  standing  right  side  up  in  a  warm 
place. 

The  rubbers  should  be  put  on  when  the  covers  are,  so  that  the 
jars  will  be  all  ready  for  use. 

When  old  rubbers  are  in  good  condition  they  are  just  as  good 
as  new  ones.     Sometimes  two  thin  ones  may  be    used  together. 

There  is  a  certain  black  rubber  that  should  not  be  used  with 
delicate  flavored  fruits  as  it  injures  their  flavor.  It  does  not  im- 
prove the  flavor  of  any  fruit. 

New  rubbers  should  be  washed  and  rubbed  well  in  soapsuds 
and  rinsed  before,  using. 

Keep  the  jars  in  a  dry  place  and  when  you  come  to  use  them 
turn  them  over  once  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  scalding  the  cov- 
ers the  same. 

Do  not  waste  time,  strength,  jars  or  sugar  on  imperfect,  de- 
cayed or  unripe  fruit.  The  probabilities  are  that  it  will  not  keep; 
and  if  it  does  the  appearance  and  flavor  will  be  inferior. 

Put  the  fruit  into  the  jars  boiling  hot  and  seal  immediately.    Do 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


54  THE   LAUREL 

not  try  to  remove  the  froth  or  air  bubbles  (pure  air  will  do  no  harm 
in  cans,  and  it  will  be  pure  when  the  fruit  is  at  boiling  heat  all 
around  it  and  will  remain  so  if  the  can  is  well  sealed),  because 
while  you  are  trying  to  let  the  air  out  the  fruit  is  cooling  on  top 
and  the  germs  from  the  outside  air  are  settling  upon  it. 

If  the  fruit  gets  below  the  boiling  point  while  filling  the  jars, 
return  it  to  the  fire  and  reheat  it.  Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing. 
Fasten  the  covers  on  perfectly  tight,  press  the  edges  down  all 
around  into  the  rubber  of  Mason  jars,  if  inclined  to  leak.  Do 
not  tighten  the  covers  after  the  fruit  is  cold. 

With  Lightning  jars  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  slip  little 
splinters  of  wood  (bits  of  berry  boxes)  under  the  wires  to  make 
the  covers  tight  enough. 

When  the  covers  are  perfectly  adjusted,  invert  the  jars  and 
leave  them  until  cool.  This  not  only  shows  whether  any  are 
leaking  or  not  but  fills  any  spaces  there  may  be. 

Keep  canned  fruit  in  a  dark  place.  The  light  will  cause  it  to 
lose  its  flavor  as  well  as  color.     Wrap  jars  in  paper  if  necessary. 

The  simplest  way  to  fill  jars  is  to  set  them  in  a  row  on  a  towel 
wrung  out  of  cold  water  and  folded  so  that  it  is  thick.  The  jars 
must  be  cold  also.  Or,  the  towel  maybe  wrungout  of  hot  water 
and  the  jars  rinsed  in  hot  water  before  filling.  In  either  cast- 
have  the  covers  warm. 

Bear  in  mind  that  "sugar,  when  largely  used,  is  more  injurious 
than  meat," 

Some  fruits,  rich  fine-flavored  pears  and  peaches,  whortleber- 
ries and  others  are  excellent  canned  without  sugar.  They  taste 
more  like  fresh  fruit. 

I  always  can  whortleberries  without  water,  so  as  to  have  them 
for  pies.     For  sauce,  water  may  be  added  after  they  are  opened. 

Gooseberries  canned  without  water  or  sugar  make  delightful, 
fresh  tasting  pies  in  winter. 

Never  fail  to  secure  black  currants  if  possible  for  pies. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


FRUITS  55 

AKvays  label  fruit  before  putting  it  away,  giving  the  year  in 
which  it  was  put  up. 

Canned  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  opened  two  hours  or 
more  before  serving,  to  give  the  fresh  taste  which  comes  with 
the  restoration  of  oxygen. 

There  is  much  work  at  the  best  connected  with  fruit  canning, 
so  1  have  tried  to  simplify  it  as  much  as  possible.  The  methods 
given  here  are  those  which  I  have  used  for  years  with  good 
results. 

TO  CAN  SOLID  BEBBIBS 

Cherries,  whortleberries,  red  and  black  currants  and  all  ber- 
ries that  do  not  crush  easily  may  be  put  into  the  kettle  in  layers 
with  sugar  (never  more  than  }4  pt.  of  sugar  to  2  qts.  of  fresh 
fruit  and  usually  less),  brought  to  the  boiling  point  slowly  and 
put  into  jars  with  very  little  trouble.  The  following  is  an  aver- 
age proportion  of  sugar  and  water  to  use  with  this  class  of  berries: 

Blackl>erries — 2  qts.  berries,  H-H  cup  sugar,  2  cups  water. 
BIk.  Raspberries — 2  qts.  berries.  ^-H  cup  sugar,  2  cups  water. 
Gooseberrries,    green — 2  qts.   berries,    i-ij^   cup  sugar,  4   cups 

Gooseberries,   ripe — 2  qts.   berries,    i-i!^   cup  sugar,    i-ij^  cup 

Whortleberries, — 2  qts.  berries,  'A  cup  sugar  (if  any),  i  table- 
spn.  water. 

Rhubarb — i  qt.  rhubarb  in  H  in.  lengths.  'A  cup  sugar,  no  water. 

TO  CAN  PEACHES  AND  FBUITS  OF  THAT  GLASS 
Peaches 
Wash  peaches,  rubbing  well,  drain,  pare  as  thin  as  possible 
and  drop  into  cold  water  to  keep  them  from  turning  dark.  If 
the  peaches  are  very  ripe,  put  a  few  at  a  time  into  a  wire  basket 
and  plunge  into  boiling  water.  Hold  them  there  a  moment, 
then  quickly  turn  them  into  cold  water;  after  which  the  skins 
will  slip  off  easily. 


o;Goo<^lc 


56  THE    LAUREL 

This  is  a  quicker  method  and  does  not  waste  the  peaches,  but  I 
have  thought  they  were  more  apt  to  turn  dark. 

For  each  rounded  quart  of  peaches,  make  a  syrup  of  /4-/4  cup 
of  sugar  and  i-i  %  cup  of  water,  the  water  in  which  the  peaches 
were  standing.  Bring  the  syrup  to  the  boiling  point,  drop  the 
peaches  in"(if  in  halves  the  cut  side  down),  boil  until  thoroughly 
heated  through,  or  until  tender;  drop  the  peaches  into  the  jars, 
pour  boiling  syrup  over,  seal,  following  "Suggestions"  carefully. 
Fears 

I  rounded  qt.  (8  or  9)  pears  i  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

in  halves  i-ij^  cup  water 

J^-/^  cup  sugar 

Finish  the  same  as  peaches. 

The  lemon  juice  gives  character  to  the  pears. 

I  once  had  some  pears  that  were  so  flavorless  it  seemed  hardly 
worth  while  to  can  them,  but  I  tied  ground  anise  seed  in  small 
pieces  of  cheese  cloth  and  cooked  with  them,  besides  adding 
lemon  juice,  and  they  were  excellent.  Small  pears  and  those 
with  thin  skins  may  be  canned  without  paring.  They  are  richer 
but  the  skins  sometimes  cause  flatulence. 

Do  not  can  pears  while  they  are  hard. 
Plums 
I  qt.  plums  /^-/4  cup  sugar  H-}^  cup  water 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  prick  the  plums  on  all  sides  with  a  fork 
before  cooking. 

Qninoes  and  Sweet  Apples 

6  qts,  quinces  in  eighths  5  qls.  water 

6  qts-  sweet  apples  in  quarters  4-6  cups  sugar 

Cook  quinces  in  water  until  tender,  remove  with  skimmer; 
cook  apples  in  same  water,  remove  apples,  measure  water,  add- 
ing more  if  necessary;  dissolve  sugar  in  water,  heat  to  boiling,  add 
fruit,  simmer  a  few  minutes  and  put  into  jars. 

Quinces  are  much  improved  by  combining  with  sweet   apples. 


o,CjOO»^Ic 


FRUITS  57 

When  the  apples  are  cooked  with  them,   the  quinces  become 
more  tender. 

Quinces  and  citron  and  quinces  and  pears  may  also  be  com- 
bined. 

Cranberries  and  Sweet  Applea 
I  qt,  cranberries  fi  qt.  cold  water 

i^  qt.  sweet  apples  in  }i-i  cup  sugar 

quarters 

Cook  sugar,  water  and  cranberries  tt^ether,  until  the  cran- 
berries begin  to  crack;  add  the  apples  and  cook  all  slowly  until 
the  apples  are  soft.      Put  into  jars  and  seal. 

To  Can  Strawberriea 
Also  red  raspberries  and  all  delicate  berries. 

For  each  2  qts.  of  hulled  berries  (just  enough  to  fill  one  quart 
jar),  use  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  berries  into 
an  earthen  or  granite  ware  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  with 
another  layer  of  berries  and  so  on.  (Strawberries  are  so  juicy 
they  will  not  bear  any  water).  Let  berries  and  sugar  stand  to- 
gether in  the  ice  box  or  cellar  for  several  hours.  They  may  be 
prepared  late  in  the  afternoon  and  put  into  the  jars  the  first 
thing  the  next  morning. 

When  ready  to  can  the  fruit,  drain  off  the  juice,  heat  it  to 
boiling,  turn  the  berries  carefully  into  it  and  shake  and  turn  the. 
dish  once  in  a  while  to  keep  the  fruit  heating  evenly.  When 
just  boiling  all  through,  dip  carefully  into  cans  with  a  handled 
cup.  Put  the  covers  on  quickly,  no  matter  how  many  bubbles 
of  air  there  are  nor  how  much  froth  there  is  in  the  jars,  and  screw 
down  tight  with  a  can  opener.  After  pressing  the  edge  of  the 
covers  down  if  neccessary,  lay  the  jars  on  the  side  (instead  of 
inverting,  for  strawberries)  and  turn  over  occasionally  while 
cooling. 

When  perfectly  cold,  set  jars  upright  and  you  will  find  the 
berries  evenly  distributed  through  the  jars  and  they  will  never 
rise  to  the  top. 


ovGoo<^lc 


58  THE   LAUREL 

Allowing  the  berries  to  stand  in  sugar  and  afterwards  putting 
them  into  boiling  syrup  hardens  them  so  that  they  keep  their 
shape.  It  is  better  to  heat  just  enough  at  once  to  fill  each  jar.  You 
can  have  several  dishes(milk  crocks,  granite,  porcelain  and  alumi- 
num kettles)  on  the  stove  at  once  at  different  stages  of  heating 
so  that  you  can  fill  one  jar  after  another. 

This  was  my  auntie's  method  and  I  have  never  seen  it  excelled. 

Pineapple 

I  pt.  pineapple 

Prepare  pineapple  as  for  fresh  pineapple,  put  into  stone  jars  or 
earthen  vessels  with  layers  of  sugar;  stand  in  ice  box  a  few  hours 
(not  long  enough  to  ferment),  drain  off  the  juice,  add  lemon  juice 
and  water,  heat  to  boiling,  add  fruit.  Let  all  just  boil  up,  fill 
jars,  seal  as  other  fruits.  The  delicate  flavor  of  pineapple  is 
lost  by  long  cooking. 

Grated  pineapple  canned  with  yi  cup  of  sugar  to  the  quart  is 
suitable  for  ices  and  other  uses. 

Sbubarb--  -cooked 
Put  stewed  rhubarb  into  jars  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  well. 
Rhubarb  Without  Goofcing — for  pies 
A  reliable  method  which  gives  the  natural  flavor. 
Wash  rhubarb  and  cut  into  inch  pieces  without  peeling,    pour 
boiling  water  over,  drain  at  once,  cool,  pack  in  cans  and  fill  with 
boiled,  strained,  ice-cold  water.     Seal  cans,  invert  in  cold  place 
and  cover  from  the  light.     Set  upright  after  a   few   hours.     To 
use,  drain,  let  stand  in  fresh  cold  water  J^  hour  and  drain  again. 
Cranberries  may  be  canned  in  the  same  way. 
Watermelon  Rind  or  Citron 
Pare  off  the  thin  green  rind,  cut  into  pieces    i    in.    square,  or 
into  strips,  stand  in  cold  water  for  two  or  three  hours,   changing 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  59 

the  water  occasionally;  drain  thoroughly,  make  syrup  of  i  pt. 
water  to  J  or  ij^  pt.  sugar,  according  to  the  richness  desired. 
(3  or  4  tablespns.  of  lemon  juice  may  be  used  with  the  latter 
quantity  of  sugar).  When  syrup  is  boiling,  add  rind,  simmer 
until  pieces  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a  broom  straw,  or  until 
they  are  clear,  put  into  jars  and  seal. 

One  part  raisins  to  five  or  six  of  the  rind  gives  a  nice  flavor. 
Or,  orange  flowers,  rose  leaves  or  rose  water  may  be  used,  but 
the  fruit  is  nice  without  any  flavoring. 

Green  melons  which  did  not  have  time  to  ripen  before  the 
frost,  are  excellent  prepared  in  this  way. 

The  rind  may  be  steamed  before  putting  it  into  the  syrup, 
and  less  water  used  for  the  syrup. 

Concord  Grapes 
2  qts.  grapes  J^  cup  sugar  J^  cup  water 

Pulp  the  grapes,  run  skins  through  the  food  cutter  and  cook 
for  20  m.  in  the  water.  Boil  pulp  until  tender  and  rub  through 
colander  to  remove  the  seeds.  Add  pulp  and  sugar  to  skins,  heat 
to  boiling  and  put  into  jars.  The  juice  may  be  strained  from 
the  pulp  and  used  to  cook  the  skins  in. 

Barberriea 

I  qt.  berries  a  cups  sugar  '/i-i  cup  water 

Very  nice  for  garnishing   fruit   salads,   desserts  or  cakes. 

Tomatoes 
Select  only  perfectly  fresh,  well  ripened  tomatoes,  wash  and 
drop  into  kettle  of  boiling  water,  remove  with  skimmer,  drop 
into  cold  water,  peel,  leave  whole  or  slice.  Boil  well  and  put 
into  jars  the  same  as  other  fruit.  Long  boiling  frees  the  acid 
and  takes  away  the  fresh,  delicate  flavor.  When  tomatoes  are 
very  watery,  drain  off  some  of  the  liquid  and  can  it  separately 
for  use  in  soups  and  broths. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


J 


60  THE    LAUREL 

Tomatoes  tor  Soups  and  Sauces 
Wash  and  slice  tomatoes  without  peeling.      Heat  to  boiling, 
rub  through  fine  colander  or  sieve  to   remove   skins   and   seeds. 
Reheat  and  put  into  jars. 

Whole  Tomatoes 
Pack  peeled  or  unpeeted  tomatoes  in  wide-mouthed  jars. 
Cook  a  few  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  strain  and  pour  the  liquid, 
cold,  over  tomatoes  in  jars,  seal,  set  jars  in  cold  water  as  in  can- 
ning vegetables,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  boil  ^  hour. 
Remove  from  water,  tighten  covers  and  invert  jars  as  usual. 

FBurr  JUICES 

Begin  with  the  earliest  fruits  and  can  some  of  the  juice  of 
each  kind  through  the  summer  until  you  come  to  grapes  and 
apples  in  the  autumn.  When  diluted  with  water,  these  juices 
are  delightful  beverages  for  sick  or  well.  A  little  lemon  juice 
gives  character  to  the  drink.  Without  diluting,  they  make  nice 
flavorings  for  fruit  salads,  egg  creams  and  pudding  sauces.  Blue- 
berry, black  raspberry  and  other  sweet  juices  make  excellent 
dressings  for  grains  instead  of  milk  or  cream. 
Qrape  Juice 

Concords  or  some  of  the  dark  purple  grapes  are  the  richest 
and  most  satisfactory  for  juice.  Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems, 
wash  and  drain,  put  into  a  preserving  kettle  without  water,  cov- 
er and  put  on  back  of  stove  on  an  asbestos  pad  or  a  ring  so  they 
will  heat  slowly.  When  the  skins  are  broken  and  the  juice  is 
free,  bring  just  to  the  boiling  point,  put  into  jelly  b^:s  and  drain 
without  squeezing.  To  each  quart  of  juice  add  from  Ji  to  l  cup 
of  sugar.  Very  ripe  grapes  will  require  no  sugar.  Heat  to  boil- 
ing and  can  the  same  as  fruit. 

Add  more  water  to  the  pulp  that  is  left  in  the  jelly  bag,  reheat, 
strain,  boil  and  put  into  large  jars  for  a  drink,  or,  rub  the  pulp 
through  a  colander,  sweeten,  heat  and  can  for  marmalade. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


To  Bottle  Juices — Nearly  fill  bottles,  standing  on  cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water,  with  boiling  juice,  through  hot  funnel.  Press 
clean  cork  into  bottle,  cut  off  even  with  the  top  of  the  bottle 
and  cover  immediately  with  sealing  wax  made  by  melting  together 
resin  and  oil.  ,  Use  only  enough  oil  to  make  the  resin  soft  enough 
to  spread  over  the  cork  and  around  the  edges  of  the  bottle.  If 
too  soft,  the  wax  will  run  off. 

Condensed  Fruit  Juices 
Cook   apple  and   other  fruit  juices  rapidly  until  thick,   then 
simmer  slowly  over  the  fire  or  in  the    oven    until  as  thick  as  de- 
sired.     Seal  in  jars  or  put  into  glasses  or  cups  as  jelly.     Conven- 
ient for  travelling,  diluted. 

APPLES 
When  apples  are  plentiful  or  likely  to  spoil,  make  into  any  of 
the  apple  sauces,  put  hot  into  jars  and  seal. 

Baked  Apples 
Bake  unpared  apples,   sweet  or  sour,   in  halves  or  quarters, 
leaving  them  rather  juicy,  put  into  jars  and  seal.     On  opening, 
put  apples  into  oven  in  baking  dish  and  dry  out  a  little  more. 

Combiaations  of  Fniita  for  Canning 

Red  or  black  raspberries  with  currant  juice. 

Red  or  black  raspberries  with  cherries. 

Plums  with  sweet  apples. 

Currants  or  currant  juice  with  pineapple. 

Orange,  strawberry  and  pineapple  juices  with  sugar,  for  straw- 
berries and  pineapple  canned  together,   or    for   pineapple  alone. 

Strawberries  with  pineapple. 

Pears  and  barberries.  Cook  barberries  in  water,  rub  through 
colander,  add  sugar,  i-ij^  cup  to  the  pint  of  pulp.  Return  to 
the  fire  and  when  hot,  lay  in  halves  or  quarters  of  nice  ripe 
pears.     Cook  until  pears  are  tender.     If  the  pears  are  not  quite 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


02  THE   LAUREL 

soft,  steam,  or  cook  in  pulp  without  sugar  first.     Sweet  apples 
may  be  used  instead  of  pears. 

JELLIES 

Because  of  the  large  proportion  of  sugar  required  in  jellies  it 
is  not  best  to  use  them  freely. 

Fruit  for  jelly  should  always  be  a  little  underripe  and  should 
not  be  picked  just  after  a  rain.  Combine  the  juices  of  such  fruits 
as  do  not  jelly  easily,  or  of  the  more  expensive  fruits,  with  apple 
juice  which  jellies  the  easiest  of  all.  With  strong  flavored  fruits, 
apple  makes  the  jelly  more  agreeable.  Jellies  may  be  made  in 
the  winter  of  canned  fruit  juices  and  the  juice  from  apple  skins 
and  cores.  The  addition  of  lemon  juice  to  sweet  fruits  will  con- 
vert them  into  jelly-making  products.  A  few  pieces  of  rose 
geranium  leaves  dropped  into  apple  jelly  just  before  putting  it 
into  glasses  and  removed  in  a  minute,  give  the  jelly  a  nice  flavor. 

Always  boil  the  juice  the  required  length  of  time  before  add- 
ing the  sugar.     It  requires  longer  boiling  on  damp  days. 

Heat  sugar  in  flat  pan  in  oven  before  adding  to  jelly. 

Thorough  straining  is  necessary  to  make  clear  jelly.  For  the 
finest  jelly,  use  first  a  double  thickness  of  mosquito  netting;  then 
the  same  of  cheese  cloth,   and  lastly,  one  thickness  of  flannel. 

Wet  the  cloth  before  putting  the  fruit  in,  to  save  the  waste 
of  juice.      Hang  in  a  warm  place  to  drain. 

It  is  said  that  if  a  little  jelly  dropped  into  cold  water  falls  im- 
mediately to  the  bottom,  the  jelly  is  done;  or,  if  it  jellies  on  the 
spoon  it  is  done. 

Glasses  for  jelly  may  be  set  cold  on  a  cold  cloth,  or  warm  on 
a  warm  cloth.      Fill  to  the  brim,  as  the  jelly  shrinks. 

When  the  jelly  is  soft,  set  in  the  sun  for  a  day  or  two,  cov- 
ered with  panes  of  glass.  When  ready  to  set  away,  turn  hot 
melted  parafline  over  the  jelly.  The  heat  destroys  any  germs 
which  may  have  settled  on  the  top.     Cover   with  paper  or  with 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  63 

tin  covers  and  set  in  a  dark  place.  When  using  the  jelly,  wash 
and  save  the  parafline. 

H  jelly  is  to  be  moved  or  shipped,  use  a  covering  of  %  inch 
of  powdered  sugar  instead  of  the  paraSine. 

Or,  cut  rounds  of  toilet  paper,  two  for  each  glass,  large  enough 
to  overlap  an  inch ;  dip  one  at  a  time  into  a  saucer  of  cold  boiled 
milk,  cover  glass  and  press  down,  then  put  on  the  second  piece 
quickly. 

One  thickness  of  Manila  paper  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
toilet  paper.  When  dry,  a  thick  parchment-like  cover  will  be 
formed  and  the  jelly  will  keep  well.  Some  housewives  cover 
jelly  while  hot,  thinking  it  keeps  better. 

To  Make  Jelly  Tumblers 

Soak  a  cord  in  turpentine,  tie  it  tight  around  bottles  and 
set  fire  to  the  cord. 

Currant  Jelly 

Wash  and  drain  currants.  They  are  usually  left  on  the  stems 
but  strain  more  easily  if  stemmed.  Crush  the  berries,  a  few  at 
a  time  and  throw  into  the  preserving  kettle.  Do  not  add  any 
water.  Set  on  back  of  range  and  heat  slowly  to  nearly,  not 
quite,  boiling.  Strain,  measure  juice,  return  to  kettle  and  set 
over  fire.  At  the  same  time  put  into  a  moderate  oven  in  broad 
bottomed  pans,  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  ^-1  pt.  to  each  pint 
of  juice  {%  is  suBicient).  After  juice  begins  to  boil,  boil  20  m., 
skimming  as  the  scum  rises.  Add  hot  sugar,  stir  until  sugar  is 
dissolved,  remove  from  fire  and  put  at  once  into  glasses. 

5^  white  currants  may  be  used  with  red. 

A  thinner  jelly  to  be  used  with  meats  and  over  puddings  un- 
derneath the  meringue,  may  be  made  wit  yi  pt.  of  sugar  to  the 
pint  of  juice. 

A  little  celery  salt  may  be  added  when  jelly  is  to  be  used  with 
meats. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


64  THE    LAUREL 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly 

Yl  currant  juice  and  i^  raspberry  or  %  currant  and  ^  rasp- 
berry makes  a  delightful  combination. 

Black  Currant  Jelly 

Prepare  stemmed  currants  as  for  red  currant  jelly.  Use  %  to 
K  cup  of  water  to  each  quart  of  currants  and  %  pt.  of  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  juice.      lO  m.  boiling  is  sufficient. 

%  ox  Yi  apple  juice  will  make  a  more  delicate  flavored  jelly. 
Jelly  of  Apple  Faringa  and  Cores 

Measure  skins  and  cores  by  pressing  firmly  into  the  measure. 
Add  %  (no  more)  as  much  water  as  of  .fruit— vou  will  think  it 
is  not  enough.  Boil  20  m.,  stirring  often.  Strain,  Measure 
juice,  boil  20-30  m. ,  according  to  juiciness  of  apples,  skimming. 
Add  %  as  much  sugar,  hot,  as  of  juice,  boil  5-10  m.,  or  until 
foamy.      Put  at  once  into  glasses. 

If  apple  jelly  is  as  thick  as  desired  when  it  first  cools,  it  will 
be  too  thick  after  standing  a  few  days.  If  apples  are  very  juicy, 
use  only  one-half  as  much  water. 

Apple  Jelly 

Wash  apples  and  cut  into  quarters  or  eighths.  Do  not  pare  or 
core.  Add  %  as  much  water  as  of  apples  in  the  kettle.  Cook, 
stirring  occasionally  until  apples  are  tender,  not  too  soft.  Fin- 
ish as  in  jelly  of  parings.  It  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact  time 
for  cooking,  as  apples  vary  in  jellying  properties.  Use  less  water 
if  apples  are  very  juicy.  One  quince  to  every  10  or  12  apples 
gives  a  nice  flavor.  A  few  green  grapes  combined  with  apples 
or  crab  apples  make  a  nice  jelly. 

Crab  and  Baldwin  apples  may  be  combined. 

Apple  and  Cranberry  Jelly 
Stew  I   qt.  of  apple  parings  with   i   cup  of  cranberries  and  a 
pint  of  water  until  tender.     Strain.     There  should  be  about  % 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FRUITS  65 

of  a  pint  of  juice.  Boil  $  m;  add  ^  pt.  sugar,  boil  2-4  m.  Or, 
use  r  doz.  large  tart  apples  to  i  qt.  of  berries,  or  equal  parts  ap- 
ple and  cranberry  juice.      Proceed  as  in  other  jellies. 

Elder-berry  and  Apple  Jelly 

Cook  elder-berries  with  }4  cup  of  water  to  each  quart  of  berries. 
Strain  and  combine  with  apple  juice  in  the  proportion  of  J^  elder- 
berry juice  to  %  apple  juice.  Use  H~i  pt.  of  sugar  to  each  pint 
of  juice.  Finish  as  for  currant  jelly.  Elder-berries  alone  make 
a  strong  flavored  jelly,  but  this  combination  is  delightful. 

Strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  cherries,  wild  cherries, 
pineapple,  barberries,  peaches,  plums  and  some  other  fruits,  all 
make  better  jelly  by  combining  with  apple  juice  in  proportions 
according  to  flavor.  Use  no  water  with  any  of  the  fruits  but 
the  apple. 

Currant  juice  may  be  combined  with  these  fruits  instead  of 
apple  juice. 

Green  Gooseberry  Jelly 

2  qts.  berries,  ^  qt.  water;  stew,  mash,  strain;  boil  20  m, 
for  each  quart  of  juice,  add  i  qt.  of  hot  sugar,  boil  2-3  minutes. 

Quinoe  Jelly 

Wash  quinces,  cut  into  quarters  or  eighths,  remove  part  or  all 
of  the  seeds,  use  >^-J^  as  much  water  as  of  fruit  and  j4  as  much 
sugar  as  of  juice.     Cook  and  finish  as  apple  jelly. 

K-J^  apple  juice  with  quince  is  better. 
Cranberry  Jelly 

Use  one  cup  of  water  to  each  4  qts.  of  cranberries;  cook  until 
the  berries  are  tender,  strain  and  use  equal  quantities  of  sugar 
and  juice.  Boil  the  juice  10-12  m.,  add  the  sugar  hot,  stir  till  it 
is  dissolved  and  turn  the  jelly  into  glasses  or  a  mold.  The  jelly 
may  be  molded  in  a  shallow  pan  and  when  perfectly  cold  cut 
into  cubes. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


66  THE   LAUREL 

Jellied  Cranberry  Pulp 
Rub  stewed  cranberries  in  the  preceding  recipe  through  the 
colander,  boil  8  m.,  add  sugar,  stir  carefully  until  dissolved,  mold. 

Jellied  Cranberry  Sauce 
I  qt.  berries,    i   pt.  sugar,    )^-i   cup  water.      Pour  water  over 
berries  with  sugar,  in  kettle,  cover,  cook  lo  m.  without  stirring. 
Put  into  lar^e  or  individual  molds,      Unmold  at  serving  time. 

Blueberry  Jelly 
If  berries  are  very  dry,   add  a  little  water,   heat,   strain;   use 
/4-H  as  much  sugar  as  of  juice. 

Blueberry  Jelly  No.  2 
4  qts.  berries,  i  cup  water;  cook  and  strain,  add  2  tablespns. 
of  lemon  juice  to  each  pint  of  juice.    Cook  20  m, ,  add  %  as  much 
sugar,  hot,  as  of  juice,  boil  up  well,  pour  into  glasses. 

Grape  Jelly 

Wild  grapes  are  preferable,  but  underripe  Concords,  Catawbas, 
and  other  varieties  may  be  used. 

Proceed  as  for  currant  jelly,  using  only  ^  as  much  sugar  as  of 
juice.  If  necessary,  boil  5  m.  after  sugar  is  adde<l.  Use  no 
water  with  cultivated  grapes,  but  with  underripe  wild  grapes,  J^ 
cup  of  water  may  be  added  to  each  quart  of  stemmed  grapes. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jam 

Take   %   their  weight  of  sugar  to  berries.      Mash  berries  in 

kettle  over  fire,  add  i  pt.  currant  juice  to  each  2  qts.  of  berries, 

cook  until  thickened,  40-45  m.,  stirring  and  skimming,  add  sugar 

hot,  boil,  put  into  glasses  or  seal  in  jars. 

Strawberry  Jam 

Allow  ^  their  weight  of  sugar  to  berries;  cook  in  a  little  of 
the  sugar,  stirring,  20-30  m.  Add  remainder  of  sugar  hot,  cook 
10-20  m.,  if  necessary.     Small  berries  may  be  used  for  jam. 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


FRUITS  67 

Qooaeberry  Jam 
Press  the  juice  from  3  oranges  and  shave  off  the  rind,  being 
careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  white  part.  Remove  blossoms  and 
stems  from  5  lbs.  gooseberries,  seed  2  lbs.  of  raisins,  and  chop 
all  tt^ether  very  fine.  Add  3-4  lbs.  sugar  and  the  orange  juice 
and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour.  Turn  into  jars  or  tumblers  and 
when  cold  spread  a  layer  of  powdered  sugar  on  top  of  glass  and 
seal. 

Hrs.  Cluuiiller's  Bhubarb  Jam 

3  lbs.  (3J4  qts.)  of  rhubarb         H  lb.  of  figs  or  raisins,  chopped 
in  inch  lengths  juice  of  i  lemon 

iK  lb,  (3  cups)  sugar  i  cup  water 

Let  rhubarb  and  sugar  stand  together  over  night,   add  other 
ingredients  and  cook  slowly  for  about  3  hours. 
Bbabarb  imd  Pineapple  Jam 

6  lbs.  (7  qts.)  rhubarb  i  large  pineapple,  grated 

in  inch  lengths  3  lbs.  (3  pints)  sugar 

Cook  rhubarb  and  sugar  ^A-H  oi  an  hour,  add  pineapple,  boil 
up,  put  into  jars,  seal. 

Melroae  Apple  Butter 

7  lbs.  pared,  quartered  and  cored  apples,  3  lbs.  molasses  sugar 
if  obtainable,  if  not,  dark  brown  sugar.  Put  apples  and  sugar  in 
layers  in  a  kettle,  cover  tight,  let  stand  12  hours  or  over  night. 
Then  let  come  just  to  boiling  and  simmer  without  stirring,  or 
uncovering  for  5-12  hours. 

Apple  juice  made  by  boiling  the  skins  of  apples  in  %  their  bulk 
of  water,  as  for  jelly,  with  lemon  juice  to  taste,  is  a  valuable  ad- 
dition. Finely-^ound  coriander  seed  may  be  added,  A  little 
date  or  prune  marmalade  may  also  be  used. 

A  delightful  butter  may  be  made  by  combining  plums  and  apples. 
Elder-berry  and  Apple  Butter 

To  each  2  qts.  of  elder-berry  juice  prepared  as  for  jelly  take  2 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


68  THE   LAUREL 

lbs.  brown  sugar  and  %  peck  sour  apples.  Put  juice  and  sugar 
on  to  boil  and  add  the  apples  pared,  quartered  and  cored;  simmer 
slowly  until  thick.      May  be  put  into  jelly  glasses. 

Equal  quantities  tomato  and  apple  make  a  nice  butter. 

Grape  Harmalade 
Pulp  the  grapes  and  put  the  skins  through  the  food  cutter.    Cook 
the  pulp  and  rub  through  the  colander  to  remove  the  seeds. 
Take  %-'^  as  much  sugar  as  there  is  of  fruit,  cook  20  m.     The 
skins  improve  the  flavor. 

Lemon  Feaobes 
I  cup  lemon  juice  i  cup  brown  sugar 

I  cup  water  peaches  to  fill  3  pint  jars 

Wash  and  rub  the  peaches  well,  drop  into  boiling  syrup  of 
lemon  juice,  sugar  and  water,  cook  until  tender,  put  into  jars 
and  seal. 

Bipe  Cucumber  Fiokles 

Pare  and  seed  cucumbers  and  cut  into  eighths  if  large.  Soak 
over  night  in  lemon  juice  and  water;  in  the  morning  drain,  add 
to  hot  syrup  and  boil  until  soft;  skim  out  of  syrup  and  put  into 
jars  standing  in  hot  water.  Keep  hot.  Boil  syrup  10-15  m., 
pourcver  fruit  and  seal;  let  stand  three  or  four  weeks  before  using. 

Syriifi — 3  cups  brown  sugar  i  cup  water 

3  cups  lemon  juice  !4-i  tablespn.  salt 

Flavor  with  celery  salt  or  seed,  ground  coriander  or  anise  seed, 
and  raisins  to  taste.  (Use  anise  seed  sparingly).  The  cucum- 
bers may  be  steamed  tender,  put  into  jars  and  the  reduced  syrup 
poured  over. 

Watermelon  rind  may  be  prepared  the  same. 
To  Dry  Slueberriea 
For  buns,  puddings  and  cakes. 
I  qt.  berries  J^-J^  cup  sugar  i  teaspn.  water 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PRESERVING    VEGETABLES  69 

Mix,  heat  in  preserving  kettle  until  juice  begins  to  exude. 
Spread  on  buttered  plates,  dry  carefully,  stirring  often, 

I  prize  this  recipe  highly,  as  all  will,  I  am  sure,  after  trying  it. 
Cherries,  peaches  and  pears  are  better  with  sugar  sprinkled  over 
them  before  drying. 

Dried  fruits  make  a  pleasant  change  from  canned  ones,  besides 
not  requiring  jars.      Home-dried  fruit  far  excels  factory  products. 
TO  CAN  TEOETABLBS 

While  vegetables  require  a  little  more  care  than  fruit  in  can- 
ning, if  they  receive  that  care  one  will  be  rewarded  with  nice 
fresh  canned  vegetables,  free  from  harmful  preservatives,  all 
through  the  winter. 

In  the  first  place,  vegetables  must  be  fresh,  especially  corn 
and  peas.  Corn  gathered  early  in  the  morning  ought  to  be  in 
the  cans  and  on  the  fire  before  noon,  and  peas  the  same  day. 

If  one  is  alone  with  all  the  housework  to  do,  it  is  better  to  put 
up  a  few  jars  at  a  time. 

Always  use  new  rubbers  on  jars  in  canning  vegetables. 

"Blanching",  in  this  connection,  means  a  short  boiling  in  a 
weak  brine  {%  cup  of  salt  to  3  qts.  of  water)  and  is  used  with 
vegetables  to  eliminate  the  acids  which  they  contain. 

Place  the  vegetables  in  a  wire  basket  or  a  cloth  bag  and  dip 
into  the  boiling  brine,  then  into  cold  water. 

Prepare  nearly  all  vegetables  as  for  the  table,  before  blanching, 
(okra  and  corn  are  exceptions). 

After  blanching,  pack  as  close  as  possible  in  jars.  Fill  jars  to 
overflowing  with  water  with  or  without  salt,  according  to  special 
directions;  fasten  covers  on  tight  {do  not  be  afraid  the  jars  will 
burst),  and  set  into  a  kettle  or  boiler  with  a  board  containing 
holes  or  with  several  thicknesses  of  cloth  or  with  thin  tin  rings 
underneath.  Surround  jars  Kof  their  depth  with  water,  cover 
the  vessel  close  so  that  the  steam  will  be  retained,  bring  to  the 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


^0  THE    LAUKEl, 

boiling  point  and  boil  rapidly  and  continuously  the  required 
length  of  time. 

Use  wrench  for  tightening  covers  of  Mason  jars  during  the 
cooking.  If  Lightning  jars  do  not  seem  to  be  air-tight,  thin  bits 
of  wood  may  be  placed  under  the  wires.  With  corn  and  peas, 
it  is  better  to  have  the  water  deep  enough  to  cover  the  jars,  for 
boiling  after  tops  are  tightened. 

Invert  jars  after  removing  from  the  water,  cover  to  exclude 
light,  cool. 

Store  in  dark,  rather  cool  place. 

Use  cold  water  to  surround  jars  at  first  if  contents  are  cold 
and  warm  water  if  contents  are  warm. 

The  length  of  time  given  is  for  cooking  quart  jars.  K-i  hour 
less  will  be  required  for  pints  and  i  hour  more  for  2  quarts. 

Asparagus — Prepare  asparagus  as  for  the  table;  blanch  tips 
3  m.,  other  parts  5  m.,  dip  in  cold  water,  pack  in  jars — the  tips 
in  one,  the  middle  of  the  stalks  in  a  second,  and  the  inferior 
ends  for  soups,  in  a  third. 

Fill  jars  with  cold  water  to  which  salt  has  been  added  in  the 
proportion  of  i  teaspn.  to  the  quart. 

Fasten  covers  and  cook  according  to  general  directions  for 
two  hours,  tighten  covers  and  cook  for  one  hour  longer. 

Asparagus  in  Full  Lengths — Place  stalks  in  jars,  heads  up, 
and  pack  as  close  as  possible. 

To  Use — Open  jar,  add  )A  teaspn.  salt,  set  jar  in  cold  or  luke- 
warm water,  heat  to  boiling,  pour  water  of!  (save  for  soups),  and 
draw  stalks  out  carefully  on  to  slices  of  prepared  toast. 

Shelled  Beans — Follow  directions  for  canning  asparagus. 

String  Beans — Prepare  as  for  the  table  or  leave  whole,  blanch 
for  2  m.,  and  follow  directions  for  canning  asparagus,  using 
water  without  salt  to  fill  the  jars. 

Greens — Narrow  dock,  milkweed,  pigweed,  purslane  or  spinach. 
Wash  the  greens  thoroughly,  drop  into  boiling  salted  water  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PRESERVING    VEGETABLES  71 

leave  just  long  enough  to  wilt.  Remove  from  water  with  skim- 
mer, pack  into  jars,  cover  with  cold  salted  water  and  proceed  as 
with  other  vegetables. 

There  are  no  vegetables  that  we  enjoy  more  in  winter  than 
our  "greens.'.' 

Okra — Wash  young  tender  okra,  cut  off  stems  and  tops,  blanch 
lo  m.,  dip  in  cold  water,  cut  in  transverse  slices  or  leave  whole, 
and  finish  the  same  as  asparagus. 

Peas — Blanch  fresh^athered,  mature,  but  not  old  peas,  for  5 
m.  (old  for  8  m.),  dip  in  cold  water,  proceed  as  for  canning  as- 
paragus, using  sugar,  i  teaspn,  to  quart  of  water  if  peas  are  not 
sweet.  Boil  3-4  hrs,  in  all;  i  hr.  after  tightening  covers,  with 
water  covering  jars  if  possible. 

Corn — Prepare  fresh-gathered  corn  as  for  drying.  Pack  at 
once  (filling  all  spaces)  in  clean  jars  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top, 
cover  to  the  depth  of  a  half  inch  with  slightly  salted  water,  fas- 
ten covers  on  as  tight  as  possible,  cook  3  or  4  hours,  screw  cov- 
ers down  again,  cover  jars  with  boiling  water  and  boil  for  i  hour 
longer.      Remove  boiler  from  fire  and  let  jars  cool  in  the  water. 

Ears  of  corn  may  be  boiled  in  clear  water  5  m.  and  dropped  in 
cold  water  before  removing  kernels. 

Corn  No.  2 — Prepare  as  in  preceding  recipe  and  cook  for 
I  hr.  after  the  water  is  boiling;  tighten  covers,  invert  and  leave 
until  the  next  day.  Cook  for  i  hr.  the  second  day  and  again 
the  third  day,  that  is,  i  hr.  each  for  three  consecutive  days. 

Bcfts- — Boil  small  dark  red  beets  for  30  m.,  drop  into  cold 
water  and  rub  the  skins  off.  Place  in  jars,  cover  with  cold  water, 
fasten  covers,  boil  1  hr.,  tighten  covers  and  boil  for  1  hr.  longer. 

Mushrooms — Pour  boiling  salted  water  over  mushrooms  and 
allow  them  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  withered;  cool,  drain, 
jiack  close  in  jars  and  cover  with  the  water  in  which  they  were 
standing;  seal  and  cook  i  Yt  hr.  Tighten  covers  and  cook  j4  hr. 
longer.     Invert  jars  until  cool.  .       ■. 


ovGoo<^lc 


72  THE    LAUREL 

TO  DBY  VEGETABLES 

Corn — Boil  corn  2-5  m.,  score  down  the  center  of  each  row 
of  grains  with  a  sharp  knife.  With  a  large  sharp  knife  cut  off  the 
thinnest  possible  layer  from  each  two  rows,  then  with  a  dull  case- 
knife  scrape  out  the  pulp  from  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Mix  pulp 
with  that  which  was  cut  oft,  spread  on  plates  or  granite  pans 
and  dry  in  a  warm  oven,  stirring  often.  If  the  oven  is  too  warm, 
the  corn  will  turn  dark.  Corn  may  be  dried  in  the  sun  if  it  is 
hot,  but  must  be  brought  in  before  the  dew  begins  to  fall  and 
spread  out  in  the  house.  It  is  better  to  dry  a  little  at  a  time  in 
the  oven  and  have  it  out  of  the  way  in  a  few  hours.  With  proper 
care  it  can  be  done  in  an  afternoon. 

When  dry,  put  at  once  into  dry  clean  jars  and  seal,  or  into 
paper  sacks  tied  tight  so  that  no  insects  can  get  at  it. 

With  care  to  keep  it  from  souring,  the  corn  may  be  dried  with- 
out cooking. 

Any  dried  corn  has  a  richer  flavor  than  canned  corn,  but 
words  are  inadequate  to  express  how  rich  and  fine  flavored  the 
yellow  sweet  corn  is  when  dried. 

Corn  for  drying  should  be  nice  and  tender;  a  little  younger, 
if  anything,  than  for  cooking  green. 

Directions  for  cooking  dried  corn  are  among  the  vegetables. 

Shelled  Beans — Lima  and  all  green  beans  may  be  dried  after 
shelling  by  being  spread  out  in  a  dry,  airy  place  and  stirred  oc- 
casionally, and  are  quite  different  in  flavor  from  dry,  ripened 
beans. 

String  Beans — Cook  beans  until  half  done;  drain,  dry  in  sun, 
pack  in  paper  bags,  keep  in  cool  place.  To  cook — soak  over 
night,  cook  shorter  time  than  usual. 

Mushrooms — String  mushroom  caps,  also  stems,  on  a  cord 
the  same  as  apples,  for  drying,  hang  in  sun  and  wind  until  just 
before  the  dew  begins  to  fall  and  flnish  drying  over  the  stove,  or, 
dry  entirely  over  the  stove. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


PRESERVING    VEGETABLES  73 

Put  into  dry,  close  covered  jars  or  thick  paper  sacks.  (May 
wrap  in  waxed  paper  before  putting  into  sacks).  Keep  in  dry 
place. 

When  first  dried,  mushrooms  may  be  pulverized  in  a  mortar 
and  the  powder  put  into  clean,  dry  jars.  It  is  delightful  for 
flavoring  soups  and  sauces. 

String  Beans  in  Brine 

Put  layer  of  salt  i  in.  deep  in  bottom  of  stone  jar  or  cask;  then 
a'  layer  of  nice,  tender  string  beans  3  in.  deep;  continue  layers 
until  cask  is  full.  Cover  beans  with  a  board  a  little  smaller 
around  than  the  inside  of  the  cask  or  jar  and  put  a  heavy  stone 
on  it  so  that  the  beans  will  be  well  covered  with  the  brine.  The 
beans  may  be  put  in  at  different  times,  but  must  be  covered  with 
the  board  from  the  first. 

To  Cook — Soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water 
several  times  in  the  early  part  of  the  evening.  Cook  the  same 
as  fresh  beans,  changing  the  water  once  or  twice  while  cooking. 

They  are  as  nice  and  fresh  as  when  picked. 
Com  in  Brine 

Put  layers  of  fresh  picked  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  in  crock  the 
same  as  string  beans  except  that  (he  layers  of  corn  should  be  1 
to  3  in.  deep  only,  and  salt  J^  in.  deep.  Have  the  top  layer  of 
salt,  and  thicker  than  the  others  and  keep  the  corn  well  under 
the  brine  with  a  board  and  stone. 

Soak  over  night  (or  cooking,  changing  the  water  2  or  3  times. 
Cook  in  unsal'ted  water. 


ooooaoo 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SOUPS 

"The  more  liquid  there  is  taken  into  the  stomach  with  the 
meals,  the  more  difficult  it  is  for  the  food  to  digest,  for  the  liquid 
must  first  be  absorbed." 

Consequently,  the  most  perfect  hygiene  in  the  use  of  soups, 
would  call  for  a  few  sips  only,  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal, 
which  in  some  cases  stimulates  the  flow  of  the  digestive  juices. 

With  a  hearty  dinner  of  other  foods,  a  small  portion  of  some 
light  soup  or  broth  should  be  served,  while  a  legume  soup  a  chow- 
der or  a  pur4e  may  make  the  principal  dish  of  the  meal. 

We  seldom  make  a  soup  after  a  recipe.  When  we  serve  soups 
every  day,  we  purposely  cook  more  than  is  required  for  other 
dishes  of  such  things  as  will  make  good  ingredients  for  soups;  or. 
if  used  occasionally  only,  we  make  soup  at  a  time  when  there 
are  left-overs  that  are  suitable.  We  get  better  results  from  these 
combinations,  both  from  the  variety  of  flavors,  and  because, 
with  few  exceptions,  reheating  develops  richer  flavors  in  foods. 

"Our  Famous  Soups"  are  some  that  we  have  made,  at  differ- 
ent times,  after  this  plan. 

Under  the  head  of  soups  are  classed,  bouillons  or  consommes, 
bisques,  purees  and  chowders;  though  some  of  them  are  not  soups 
in  the  strictest  sense.  For  instance,  a  chowder  is  often  made 
of  the  consistency  of  a  stew,  with  a  small  proportion  of  liquid, 
and,  as  Francatelli  says,  "a  pur^e  is  a  kind  of  pulpy  maceration 
of  legumes,  vegetables,  etc.,  which  have  been  passed  through  a 
fine  colander, "  but  both  of  these  are  sometimes  made  with  a 
larger  proportion  of  liquid  and  served  as  thick  soups. 

The  word  "bisque"  means  rich  soup,  so  in  using  it  we  do  not 
say  '  'tomato  bisque  soup' '  because  the  word  soup  is  comprehended 
in  bisque. 

Bouillons  {boo-yon'  or  bool-yon")  or  consommes  are  broths- 

(74) 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


Snggestlonfl 

Do  not  put  everything  through  the  colander,  (celery  and  oyster 
plant,  never).  Mastication  in  connection  with  soiips  is  an  aid 
to  their  digestion  as  well  as  being  more  satisfying. 

Use  potatoes  seldom  in  any  but  potato  soups;  potato  water, 
not  at  all.  The  addition  of  potatoes  to  an  otherwise  wholesome 
soup  might  convert  it  into  a  fermentable  combination:  as  well  as 
to  remove  it  from  the  dietary  of  those  who  cannot  use  starchy 
foods. 

Cook  turnips  and  carrots  by  themselves  and  drain  before  add- 
ing to  soups.     The  flavor  of  turnip  in  soup  is  often  disagreeable. 

Utilize  the  food  cutter  in  preparing  vegetables  for  soups. 

As  a  rule,  use  oyster  plant  in  slices,  '/i  in.  thick  in  the  lai^est 
part  and  a  little  thicker  toward  the  end;  but  if  desired  fine,  grind 
it  before  cooking.      In  this  way  it  retains  its  characteristic  flavor. 

Often  the  best  way  to  thicken  a  soup  is  to  heat  the  flour  in 
oil  or  butter  (without  browning)  and  add  some  of  the  hot  soup 
to  it  as  for  gravy,  so  avoiding  a  scorched  taste. 

Dried  mushrooms  washed  well,  soaked  2  to  4  hours,  simmered 
5  m.,  cut  fine  and  added,  with  their  juice,  give  a  fine  flavor 
tomany  soups.  Three  or  four  small  pieces  are  sufficient  for 
1  !^  to  2  qts.  of  soup. 

Always  keep  a  quantity  of  consomm^  or  bouillon  on  hand,  for 
soups  or  sauces,  or  to  pour  over  hash,  or  chopped  potatoes,  or 
to  moisten  roasts. 

Serve  bouillon  or  consomm^  in  cups  with  or  without  the 
beaten  white  of  egg  in  teaspoonfuls  on  each. 

Whipped  cream  may  be  added  to  bouillon  just  before  serving 
or  dropped  by  teaspoonfuls  on  the  cups,  with  a  leaf  of  parsley 
laid  on  each. 

When  soups  are  lacking  in  character,  the  addition  of  water 
and  salt  will  develop  a  meaty  flavor,  relieving  the  "porridgy" 
taste. 


ovGoo<^lc 


76  THE    LAUREL 

Raw  nut  butter  may  be  added  to  any  of  the  combinations  of 
vegetables  in  the  proportion  of  i  or  i  ^  tablespns.  to  each  quart 
of  soup. 

The  water  drained  from  boiled  peanuts  may  be  used  in  place 
of  raw  nut  butter,  taking  care  not  to  use  too  much. 

If  you  should  have  the  thick  nut  stock,  use  not  more  than  2 
tablespns,  to  each  quart  of  soup. 

Use  herbs  sparingly,  some,  such  as  mint  and  thyme,  in  minute 
quantities. 

In  putting  corn  through  a  colander,  first  crush  the  kernels  in 
a  pan  or  grind  them  through  a  food  cutter,  and  put  a  very  little 
into  the  colander  at  a  time. 

Use  poor  or  top  parts  of  stalks  of  celery,  crushed,  for  flavor- 
ing soups. 

Okra  is  a  valuable  addition  to  some  soups,  tomato  soups  espe- 
cially. When  using  it,  take  about  %  less  water  for  the  soup, 
and  add  from  %-%  of  a  pint  can  to  each  pint  of  soup.  Heat 
carefully  and  serve  at  once. 

The  water  from  spinach  is  an  invaluable  addition  to  vegetable 
soups,  and  with  the  addition  of  a  little  cream  it  alone  makes  a 
delightful  broth.  The  water  from  nearly  all  greens  is  desirable 
in  soups. 

A  little  stewed  asparagus  adds  very  much  to  any  vegetable 
soup  or  chowder. 

If  soup  has  thickened  by  standing,  add  water  or  milk  before 
serving. 

WATER  SOUPS 

■*■    Nut  Bouillon 

I'/i  tablespn.  raw  nut  butter  2-3/^  teaspns.  browned  flour 

3-4  tablespns.  chopped  onion  i-iX  teaspn.  salt 

%  cup  strained  tomato  i  qt.  water 

Rub  the  nut  butter  smooth  with  part  of  the  water,  simmer  all 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


SOUPS  TJ 

ingredients  together  I J4-2  hrs.,  strain  vegetables  out,  add  water 
to  make  \%  qt.,  heat,  serve. 

To  Clear — Add  water  for  one  quart  only,  cool,  beat  with  the 
white  and  shell  of  one  e^.  set  over  a  slow  (ire  and  stir  often 
until  the  broth  boils  rapidly,  then  boil  without  stirring  until  it 
looks  dark  and  clear  below  the  scum.  Let  stand  off  the  fire 
about  lOm.,  strain  through  2  or  3  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth 
laid  over  a  colander;  pour  through  wire  strainer  on  to  the  cheese 
cloth.  Add  more  water  if  necessary  after  straining,  to  develop 
a  meaty  Havor.     Reheat,  serve. 

■^    Vegetable  Consommd 

With  or  without  2-3  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  or  soup  stock, 

1-2  large  onions,  sliced  %  level  teaspn.  thyme 

%  cup  dried  celery  tops  pressed  i  level  tablespn.   browned  flour 

down  2-3  cloves  garlic,  if  desired 

2  large  bay  leaves  2M-3  teaspns.  salt 

2  large  tomatoes  or  V^-Vi  cup  2  qts,  water 

stewed  tomato 

Cook  together  1-2  hours,  strain,  add  water  to  make  2  quarts, 
more  salt  if  necessary,  heat,  serve. 

■^    Vegetable  Consommd,  No.  S 
Omit  browned  flour  and  garhc  in  preceding   recipe,  substitute 
celery  salt  for  celery  tops,  and  add  a  trifle  of  sage. 

Wblte  Stock 

^A  cup  raw  nut  butter  or  meal  J^  level  teaspn.  thyme 

I  large  onion,  sliced  i  medium  bay  leaf 

ij4  level  teaspn.  celery  salt  \%-i  teaspns.  salt 

or  seed  2-3  qts.  water 
%  level  teaspn.  powdered  sage 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  nut  butter  which  has  been  stirred 
with  water,  simmer  all  together  i>^-2  hours,  strain,  and  add 
water  to  make  2%  pints,  heat,  serve. 


.b,Goo<^lc 


THE    LAUREL 


yi  cup  raw  nut  butter  or  meal  i  level  tablespn.  browned  flour 

1  mediuin  bay  leaf  i  cup  sliced  onion 

I  level  teaspn.  celery  salt  i  clove  garlic 

%  level  teaspn.  powdered  sage  2%  qts.  water 

yi  level  teaspn.  thyme  K  cup  strained  tomato 

I  level  tablespn.  salt 

Finish  the  same  as  white  stock,  leaving  2%  pts.  of  stock. 

Vegetable  Stock 

%  cup  each  beans  and  split  peas  1-2  tablespns.  chopped  parsley 

1  each  medium  onion  and  car-  ^  level  teaspn.  thyme 

rot,  sliced  *  J^  level  teaspn.  leaf  sage 

I  stalk  celery  or  K  cup  celery  or  %  powdered 

tops  or  %  teaspn.  celery  Salt 

seed  or  salt 

Simmer  all  together  3-4  hours;  strain,  serve.  Parsley  may  be 
added  after  straining  soup.  Savory,  marjoram  and  other  herbs 
may  be  used,  or  the  herbs  may  be  omitted  altogether. 

Other  legumes  may  be  substituted  for  the  ones  given.  Tomato 
or  browned  flour  or  both  may  be  added.  This  stock  is  excel- 
lent for  gravies  and  sauces.  A  thick  soup  may  be  made  by  rub- 
bing the  vegetables  through  the  colander  instead  of  straining 
them  out. 

•k    Cereal  Bouillon 
2%  pts.  nice  fresh  bran  pressed  down.     2}i  qts.  boiling  water 
Simmer  together  2  hours  or  more;  strain,  add 

I  pint  strained  tomato  i  large  onion,  sliced 

I  bunch  celery  stalks,  crushed         %  teaspn.  powdered  mint  in  a 
muslin  bag 

Simmer  together  >^~i  hour,  strain,  salt  to  taste,  heat,  serve. 
This  should  make  2j4  qts.  of  soup.  Other  flavorings  maybe  used. 

In  using  the  bran  put  up  in  packages,  sift  it  and  use  only  the 
coarse  part. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


Tomato  Broth 
I  qt.  stewed  tomato  salt 

I  onion,  sliced  i  pt.  water 

I  bay  leaf 

Simmer  all  together  about  20  m..  strain  and  add  water  for 
I  j4  qt.  of  broth.  Use  plenty  of  salt.  This  broth  may  be  cleared 
the  same  as  bouillon,  leaving  l  qt.  only.  3  or  4  teaspoons  of 
browned  flour  may  be  used 

Leg:ame  Broths 

Cook  beans,  lentils  or  whole  green  peas,  until  the  water  looks 
rich,  but  not  until  the  skins  begin  to  break.  Strain,  making  i  pt. 
of  broth  from  each  pint  of  legumes.  (The  legumes  remaining 
may  be  used  for  stews  and  soups).  Add  salt,  heat  and  serve. 
These  broths  are  very  satisfying.  They  may  be  varied  by  add- 
ing different  flavorings  to  legumes  while  cooking  or  to  broths 
after  straining.  Tomato,  celery,  onion  with  or  without  browned 
flour,  or"  thyme  are  suitable.  Brown  beans  with  onion  have 
quite  a  different  flavor  from  white  beans  with  onion- 

i(    Nut  French  Soup 
2  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  r  large  bay  leaf 

2  cups  stewed  tomato  H  teaspn.  powdered  sage 

6  cups  water  J^  teaspn.  thyme 

H  tablespn.  browned  flour  ■2H-S  feaspns.  salt 

H  large  onion,  sliced 
Simmer  J^-i  hour,  strain,  reheat,  serve.     An  English  woman 
in  sampling  this  soup  after  I    had   made   it  up,  remarked  that  it 
tasted  like  some  of  the  French  soups,  hence  its  name. 

Egg  Soup 
Add  salt  and  butter  to  water,  break  eggs  into  a  cup,  one  for 
each  cup  of  water,  leave  whole  and  turn  slowly  into  the  rapidly 
boiling  water,  beating  briskly  with  fork  or  wire  whip  until  the 
egg  is  in  white  and  yellow  shreds.  Boil  up  well  and  serve  with 
crackers  and  celery.  This  is  an  emergency  soup.  Cream  may 
be  added  to  the  water  instead  of  butter,  or  part  milk  may  be  used. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


So  THE    LAUREL 

ir    Nut  and  Barley  8onp 
4  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  2  small  sticks  celery,  or 

2  qts.  water  a  few  celery  tops 

2^  tablespns.  coarse  pearl  2K-3  teaspns.  salt 

barley 
H  bay  leaf 

Cook  barley  and  nut  butter  in  part  of  the  water  for  3-5  hours. 
Add  water  to  make  2  qts.,  with  celery  and  bay  leaf.  Simmer 
from  1 5-20  m, ,  no  longer.  Remove  celery  and  bay  leaf,  serve. 
Bay  leaf  may  be  omitted. 

it    Cabbage  and  Tomato  Soup 
Cook  chopped   or   hnely-shredded  cabbage  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender;  add  stewed  tomatoes,  simmer    15-20  m.,  add 
necessary  salt  and  water,  serve.      Excellent. 

ir    Celery  and  Tomato  Soup 
Use  stewed  celery  instead  of  cabbage   in    cabbage  and  tomato 
soup,     A  delightful  combination. 

It    Savory  Bice  Soup 
4  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  1  teaspn.  chopped  onion 

2  qts.  water  ^-H  teaspn.  sage 

2)^  tablespns.  rice  2^  teaspns.  salt 

Blend  nut  butter  and  water.  Heat  to  boiling,  add  rice,  onion 
sage  and  salt.     Boil  rapidly  until  rice  is  tender. 

It  may  be  necessary  to  add  1-2  cups  of  water  after  rice  is 
cooked. 

Omon  Soap 

Simmer  sliced  onions  in  butter  without  browning;  add  water, 
boiling,  cook  until  onions  are  tender,  thicken  slightly  with  flour, 
rub  through  colander,  add  salt  and  a  little  browned  flour,  more 
water  if  necessary,  and  chopped  parsley. 

May  cook  raw  nut  butter  with  onion  instead  of  using  dairy 
butter. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SOUPS  81 

Split  Feaa  and  Onion  Soap 
Split  peas,  water,  salt,  raw  nut  butter  and  onion,  a  little  to- 
mato sometimes.     Cook  all  ingredients  together  until  peas  and 
onion  are  tender.     Strain  or  not  as  preferred. 

Potato  Soup  with  Onion  or  Celery 

Simmer  chopped  onion  in  oil  or  butter,   add  boiling  water, 

potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  salt.     Cook  until    potatoes  are 

tender,  add  water  to  make  of  the  right  consistency,  salt,  and 

chopped  i^rsley. 

Serve  with  shelled  nuts  and  croutons. 

Finely-sliced  celery  may  be  cooked  with  the  potatoes,  and 
onions  omitted. 

Vegetable  Soap  No.  l 
I  cup  each  carrot,  turnip  and  2  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter 

parsnip  in  small  pieces  2  qts.  boiling  water 

3  cups  each  onion  and  celery  salt 

Cook  all  except  rice  for  %  hour,  add  rice  and  cook  until  it  is 
tender;  add  i  tablespn.  parsley,  more  salt  and  water  if  necessary. 

Vegetable  Soup  No.  2 
Equal  quantities  carrot   and   turnip   in  small  pieces,  twice  as 
much  onion  and  celery,  with  raw  nut  butter   and  water.     Cook 
until  vegetables  are  tender;  add  salt  and  necessary  water.      In 
their  season,  asparagus,  peas,  and  string  beans  may  he  added. 

Vegetable  Soup  No.  3 

Simmer  sliced  onions,  celery  or  carrots  and  cabbage  in  water, 
with  raw  nut  butter,  until  tender.  Add  browned  flour,  salt  and 
necessary  water;     heat. 

Mashed  legumes  may  be  used  in  place  of  nut  butter  in  these 
vegetable  soups.  Or  they  may  be  made  into  cream  soups  by 
using  milk  instead  of  nut  butter  and  water,  with  or  without 
thickening.     Chopped  parsley  may  be  used  in  any  of  them. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


82  THE    LAUREL 

Tomato  Soup 

1  tablespn.  oil  or  butter  i  pt.  boiling  water 

2  tablespns.  flour  i  qt.  stewed  tomatoes 
I  teaspn.  salt 

Add  flour  to  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  pour  boiling  water 
over,  stirring,  add  tomatoes  and  salt.     Boil  up  well. 

Chopped  onion  may  be  simmered  in  the  oil  before  adding  floor. 

Nut  Qumbo 
3-4  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  ?^  pt.  stewed  or  canned  okra 

iVi  qt,  water  fi  cup  finely-sliced  celery, 

ys  cup  nutmese  in  small  ob-  stewed 

long  pieces  I  tablespn.  rice,  cooked 

yi  cup  trumese  in  small  oblong         }i  tablespn.  chopped  parsley 

pieces  salt 

Cook  raw  nut  butter  in  part  of  the  water,  add  other  ingredi- 
ents, heat  well.     Cooked  noodles  may  be  used   instead  of  rice. 
it    Tsmpa  Bay  Soup 

I  tablespn.  oil  i-iii  qt.  water 

I  tablespn.  flour  /4  cup  sliced  okra 

}i  tablespn.  browned  flour  J4  cup  sliced  onion 

I  cup  boiling  water  ^  cup  trumese  in  dice 

I  cup  stewed  tomato  K  cup  nutmese  in  dice 

3  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  chopped  parsley 

Cook  tomato,  raw  nut  butter,  the  i  J^  qt.  of  water,  okra  and 
onion  all  together,  rub  through  colander  and  add  to  sauce  made 
with  oil,  browned  and  white  flour  and  the  i  cup  of  water.  Add  salt 
and  more  water  if  necessary,  and  when  boiling,  the  trumese  and 
nutmese,  with  chopped  jarsley.  Throw  egg  balls  into  the  soup 
just  before  serving,  or  serve  sepanitely  in  each  dish.  Or,  pass  a 
dish  of  boiled  rice  with  the  soup. 

ir    Mother's  Soup 

1  qt.  clean  wheat  bran  pressed  i  bay  leaf 

down  in  the  measure  i-3  tablespns.  browned  flour 

3  qts.  boiling  water  J4  cup  chopped  turnip 

2  large  onions,  sliced  or  H  teaspn.  thyme 
chopped  salt 

%  cup  grated  carrot 


ovGoo<^lc 


SOUPS  83 

Cook  all  except  turnip  and  thyme  together  iJ^-2  hours. 
About  20  m.  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  the  turnip,  and 
in  10  m.  the  thyme;  after  another  10  m.,  strain,  add  salt  and 
more  water  if  necessary,  heat. 

When  soup  is  boiling  rapidly,  turn  in  slowly,  in  a  slender  stream, 
batter  for  cream  noodles,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  up  well,  re- 
move from  fire,  serve  at  once. 

3-4  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  may  be  used  for  stock  instead  of 
bran,  and  i  J^  teaspn.  lemon  juice  added  when  soup  is  done. 

■A-    Bean  Soup 

Put  the  beans  into  boiling  water  and  cook  rapidly  until  the 
skins  begin  to  break,  then  simmer  until  tender  and  well  dried 
out.  The  longer  and  more  slowly  the  beans  are  cooked  the 
richer  the  soup  will  be.  Rub  beans  through  colander,  keeping 
them  where  they  wilt  remain  hot  during  the  process.  Return 
to  the  fire,  add  boiling  water  and  salt,  and  simmer  for  an  hour. 
Stir  well  and  serve. 

There  are  three  things  essential  to  the  perfection  of  bean  soup; 
1st.,  cook  the  beans  without  soaking  or  parboiling,  2nd.,  dry  out 
well  after  they  become  tender,  3rd.,  do  not  let  the  beans  or  soup 
get  cold  at  any  time  before  serving.  Warmed-over  bean  soup  is 
very  good,  but  there  is  a  certain  meaty  flavor  lost  by  cooling 
and  reheating.  Left-overs  of  bean  soup,  we  usually  combine 
with  other  ingredients.  Brown  beans  and  red  make  very  rich 
soups,  much  better  than  black.  One  pint  of  beans  will  make 
about  3  qts.  of  soup. 

^    Ctalok  Feaa  Soup 

Make  the  same  as  bean  soup  (except  that  peas  require  longer 
cooking),  or  cook  in  consomm6.     Very  rich  in  flavor. 
it    TTnatralned  Bean  Soup 

Cook  nice  tender  white  beans  until  partially  cooked  to  pieces. 
Add  salt,  and  water  to  make  of  the  right  consistency,  and  simmei 
slowly  yi  hour  or  longer. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


84  THE    LAUREL 

■ft    Swiss  Lantil  Soup 

t>  pint  lentils  2-4  tablespns.  browned 

I  large  onion  salt  [flour 

Cook  lentils  and  sliced  onion  together  until  lentils  are  tender 

and  well  dried  out,  rub  through  colander,  add  the  browned  flour 

and  salt,  with  water  to  make  of   the  right  consistency.     (There 

should   be   from    2^-$    qts.   of  soup).     Heat  J^-i  hour.     This 

makes  an  unusually  meaty-flavored  soup. 

The  idea  of  combining  onion  and  browned  flour  with  lentils 
was  given  me  by  one  who  had  spent  some  years  among  the 
French  in  Switzerland. 

Swiss  Peas  or  Swiss  Bean  Soup — May  be  made  the  same. 

ir    Canadian  Peas  Soup 
Cook   whole   ripe   peas   with   onion  and  a  little  garlic,    rub 
through  colander,  add  salt,   a  little  browned  flour  and  powdered 
s^e,  with  water  to  make  like  a  broth,      Unusually  good. 

ir    Qreen  Peas  Soup 

Cook  green  peas  until  tender,  put  %  of  them  through  the  col- 
ander, add  water  and  salt,  boil  up,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together,  add  the  whole  peas,  heat  to  boiling  and 
serve. 

CBEAH  AND  UXLE  SOUPS 

Cream  soups  do  not  necessarily  contain  cream,  though  the 
addition  of  a  little  improves  their  flavor. 

The  simplest  ones  consist  of  milk  thickened  to  the  consistency 
of  very  thin  cream,  salt,  and  a  vegetable  or  some  other  ingredient. 
If  the  vegetable  is  mashed,  or  is  one  that  does  not  break  to 
pieces  easily,  the  milk  may  be  added  to  it,  and  the  whole  brought 
to  the  boiling  point  and  thickened.  In  a  few  exceptional  cases 
the  ingredient  may  be  cooked  in  the  milk;  nice  tender  green  corn, 
for  instance. 

A  richer  sauce  is  made  by  making  a  roux  of  2  level  tablespns. 
of  butter,  and   l-ij^   level  tablespn.   flour,  with  a  pint  of  milk. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SOUPS  85 

put  together  in  the  regular  way  for  sauces;  but  you  will  be  sur- 
prised to  see  how  much  better  soups  (with  few  exceptions)  are 
without  thickening,  being  free  from  the  porridgy  taste  of  those 
thickened  a  trifle  too  much, 

A  little  cream  with  the  water  in  which  the  vegetable  was 
cooked  often  gives  a  finer  flavored  soup  than  milk  and  is  no  more 
expensive. 

Sour  cream  makes  a  delightful  as  well  as  wholesome  substitute 
for  sweet  cream  in  corn,  cabbage,  tomato,  in  fact,  nearly  all 
vegetable  soups. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  soups  in  which  the  general  direc- 
tions are  understood  when  no  exceptions  are  noted.  Salt  is  un- 
derstood in  all. 

•k  Cream  of  Asparagus — Cook  tougher  parts  and  rub  through 
colander.  Throw  cooked  tips  in  last  unless  desired  for  some 
other  dish.  The  very  toughest  parts  only  make  a  nice,  delicate 
flavored  soup.  This  is  one  which  favors  cream  and  water  instead 
of  milk. 

Cream  of  Bean — Lima,  common  white,  or  colored.  Cook 
as  for  water  bean  soup,  rub  through  colander  or  leave  in  bro- 
ken pieces.  Milk,  or  cream  and  water,  no  flour,  i  cup  beans  to 
1  J^-2  qts.  soup. 

Cream  of  BouiUon^  X-K  cup  cream  salted  and  whipped, 
to  each  quart  bouillon  just  before  serving,  either  stirred  in,  or 
laid  on  top  of  each  cup  in  spoonfuls  with  a  leaf  of  parsley, 

ic  Cream  of  Cabbage,  or  Celery  and  Tomato — Cabbage  or  cel- 
ery, and  tomato  soup,  with  a  little  heavy  cream  added. 

Cream  of  Carrot — i  cup  of  ground  or  grated  carrot,  cooked, 
3  pts.  milk  and  water,  iJ^-2  tablespns,  butter,  \%  tablespn, 
flour;  or,  i  cup  strained  tomato,  %-%  cup  cream,  with  water  to 
make  3  pts.,  and  no  butter. 

Without  the  tomato,  soup  may  be  flavored  with  onion  or  celery, 
and  bay  leaf,  with  chopped  parsley. 


ovGoo<^lc 


86  THE   LAUREL 

Cream  of  Celery — i  pt.  finely-sliced  celery,  stewed,  milk  and 
cream  added  to  make  3  pts.,  i-ij^  tablespn.  flour  with  or 
without  !  or  2  tablespns.  of  butter.  Do  not  strain.  When  soup 
is  thickened,  crushed  stalks  of  celery  may  be  steeped  in  it  for 
15m.,  then  removed. 

it  Cream  of  Celery  Ho.  3 — Steep  leaves  or  poor  stalks  of  cel- 
ery in  milk  for  15  m.,  add  cream  and  flour,  or  flour  and  but- 
ter, to  m&ke  of  the  consistency  of  thin  cream.  Strain.  May 
add  a  little  celery  salt. 

Cream  of  Cheetnut— Mashed  boiled  chestnuts,  milk  to  thin, 
cream,  plain. or  whipped,  or,  milk  and  butter.  May  be  fla- 
vored with  celery  or  onion  or  both. 

it  Cream  of  Com — i  pt.  canned  or  grated  corn  to  3  pts. 
rich  milk,  i  level  tablespn.  only,  of  flour,  a  very  little  salt.  Do 
not  let  soup  stand  long  before  serving.  A  little  onion  improves 
the  flavor.  If  fresh  corn  is  used,  the  milk  may  be  heated  in  a 
double  boiler,  the  corn  added  and  cooked  20-30  m.,  or  it  may 
be  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  6-10  m.  The  cobs  may 
be  boiled  in  the  water  for  10  m.  before  and  removed;  or  they 
may  stand  in  the  milk  while  it  is  heating  and  be  removed  before 
corn  is  added. 

Fine  fresh  cracker  meal  gives  a  nice  flavor  to  cream  of 
corn  soup  when  used  instead  of  flour  for  thickening. 

A  very  little  strained  tomato  im[Kirts  a  delightful  flavor  and 
makes  a  different  soup. 

Cream  of  Dried  Com — Soak  corn,  grind,  add  to  hot  milk,  or 
cream  and  water.  Heat  in  double  boiler  i  hour,  add  salt,  serve. 
If  necessary,  thicken  a  trifle. 

Cream  of  Dried  Com  and  Carrot — Add  cooked  grated  carrots 
to  corn  and  milk  in  above  recipe  and  heat.     Delicious. 

Cream  of  Leak — Boil  sliced  leeks  to  pulp  or  cook  only  until 
tender. 

Cream  of  Lentil — I  cup   lentils   cooked   and   rubbed  through 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SOUPS  87 

colander.      lJ^-2  qts,  soup.     No  flour.     May  flavor  with  celery 
and  onion. 

Cream  ol  Onion — Cook  sliced  onions  in  salted  water.  Do  not 
strain.     Nice  thickened  with  tapioca  instead  of  flour. 

Cream  of  Oyster  Plant— Cook  sliced  oyster  plant  in  water 
until  just  tender,  not  soft;  add  salt,  simmer  5  m.  Add  cream 
and  more  water  if  necessary.  Or,  grind  oyster  plant  before 
cooking.     May  thicken  a  trifle. 

Cream  of  Peas,  dry — Canadian,  dried  green,  split  or  chick; 
I  cup  to  ij4-2  qts.  of  soup.  Cook,  rub  through  colander;  milk, 
or  cream  and  water.     No  flour.     Celery  or  onion  flavor  or  not. 

Cream  of  Potato,  or  Sweet  Potato — 1^-2  qts.  of  milk,  or 
cream  and  water,  for  each  pint  of  mashed  potato.  Flavor  with 
onion,  celery  salt  or  bay  leaf. 

Cream  of  Spinach — Use  a  very  small  proportion  of  cooked 
spinach  rubbed  through  a  colander,  with  rich  milk,  or  with  cream 
and  the  water  in  which  the  spinach  was  boiled.  Whipped  cream 
may  be  added  just  before  serving.  Thicken  with  tapioca  some- 
times. 

Cream  of  String  Beans — Cook  beans  in  small  pieces,  add  rich 
milk,  thicken  with  flour  or  tapioca. 

Cream  of  Suoootaaii  Soup 

Use  I  part  of  beans  to  2  parts  of  corn;  put  either,  neither  or 
both  through  a  colander;  add  rich  milk  and  salt. 

For  variety,  flavor  the  soup  with  celery  or  onion  or  both,  and 
add  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley  just  before  serving. 
Cream  of  Com  and  Celery  Soup 

Equal  quantities  cooked  celery  and  corn,  rich  milk  thickened 
a  trifle  if  desired,  salt. 

Cream  of  Com  and  Peas  Soup 
I  cup  dried  green  peas  2  or  3  stalks  of  celery 

I  cup  canned  corn  milk 


ovGoo<^lc 


88  THE   LAUREL 

Cook  peas,  rub  through  colander,  corn  also  if  preferred.  Add 
milk  to  make  of  the  right  consistency.  Put  over  fire  in  double 
boiler  with  salt  and  the  stalks  of  celery  crushed.  Heat  for  15m., 
remove  the  celery  and  serve,  i  pint  of  canned  green  peas  may 
be  used  instead  of  dried  ones. 

Okra  Soup  with  Cream 
I  pt.  canned  okra,   vegetable   consomm^  to  make  of  the  right 
consistency.  J^-i  cup  cream,  salt.    If  the  okra  is  in  large  pieces, 
cut  smaller. 

Cream  of  Bice  Soup 

H  cup  rice  ^H  pt.  milk 

iH  teaspn.  salt  ]4  cup  cream 

ij4  pint  water 

Cook  rice  with  salt  and  water  in  a  double  boiler  or  in  a  pan  in 
the  oven  until  the  water  is  absorbed,  add  the  milk  hot,  and  cook 
stirring  often,  on  top  of  stove  or  in  double  boiler  till  rice  is  soft 
and  creamy.  Add  cream  and  more  salt  and  water  if  necessary. 
Soup  may  be  flavored  with  2  teaspns,  finely-chopped  onion,  a 
crushed  half  clove  of  garlic,  or  %-%  teaspn.  sage,  or  with  a  bay 
leaf,  or  crushed  stalks  of  celery.     All  milk  may  be  used. 

•k    Paris  Onlou  Soup 
Cook  sliced   onion    with    browned   flour  in  salted  water  until 
tender.     Rub  through  colander,    add  cream  or  butter,  milk  and 
salt.     Thicken  a  trifle,  heat  and  add  chopped  parsley. 

Soup  of  Feaa  Foda 
Wash  peas  pods,  stew  3  hours  with  a  small  sprig  of  mint.  Rub 
through  a  coarse  wire  sieve  (a  few  at  a  time)  until  nothing  is  left 
but  the  membrane.  Add  milk  and  butter,  or  cream  and  water, 
with  a  little  flour  to  thicken  if  desired,  then  a  few  whole  peas; 
season  with  salt. 

Split  Peas  Soup 
1  pt.  split  peas,  i  onion  sliced;   cook   in  water  till  soft.     Add 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


milk  to  make  of  the  right  consistency  and  salt  to  season.     Good 
without  onion. 

if    Feaa  and  Tomato  Soup 
I  cup  dried  green  peas  iH  qt.  water 

(2  cups  after  l>eiDg  2-4  cups  tomato 

cooked  and  mashed)  H  cup  cream 

Salt 

Cook  peas  and  rub  throi^h  coknder,  add  water,  tomato, 
cream  and  salt.     Heat.     Serve. 

Cream  of  Qreen  (or  oannedj  Peas  Soup 
1  pt.  stewed  or   canned,    well   matured  green  peas,  l-ij^  qt. 
rich  milk,  salt.     Heat  peas,  rub  through  colander,  add  hot  milk 
gradually,  stirring,    then   salt.     Heat   well,    serve.      If  peas  are 
not  sweet,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  may  be   added.     The  soup  may 
be  thickened  with  l  level  tablespn.  of  flour.    It   also  may  be  fla- 
vored with   stalks   of   celery   or  slices  of  onion,  for  variety;  but 
nice-flavored  peas  do  not  require  any  additional  flavoring. 
ir   Tomato  Cream  Soup 
1  qt.  rich  milk  I  cup  strained  tomato 

i-iK  tablespn.  flour  i  teaspn.  salt 

Heat  milk,  thicken  with  flour,  add  tomato,  then  salt ;  serve  hot. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 
Same  as  Tomato  Cream  Soup,  with  2%  cups  of  tomato  instead 
of  I  cup,  and  i}4-2  teaspns.  salt. 

ir  Another 
I  tablespn.  butter  i  cup  milk 

T  level  tablespn.  flour  i  cup  strained  tomato 

I  cup  water  5^  teaspn.  salt 

Heat  butter,  add  flour,  then  water,  milk,  tomato  and  salt. 
stirring  smooth. 

Cream  Broths 

Cauliflower,  cabbage  or  spinach  water,  with  a  Uttle  cream, 
make  delightful  broths;  also  barley  or  rice  water  or  juice  of 
tCMnato. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


go  THE    LAUREL 

BrasU  Hat  Soap 

%  lb.  (i  large  cup)  ground  i^  cup  finely-sliced  celery 

Brazil  nut  meats  (crushed  stalks  of  celery 

i-iJ4  pt.  water  may  be  used) 

I  cup  chopped  onion  2  cups  milk 

Salt 

Cook  ground  nuts  in  the  water  for  2  hrs.,  add  onion  and  celery, 
and  cook  15  m.,  to  %  hr.,,  add  the  milk,  heat,  strain,  add  salt 
and  more  milk  or  water  if  necessary,  reheat.  Other  flavorings 
may  be  used. 

This  may  be  used  as  a  white   stock  with  or  without  the  milk. 
Sister  Cooley's  Brown  Potato  Soap 

I  pt.  of  potato,  in  small  pieces,  cooked,  mashed  and  well 
beaten,  3  tablespns.  butter  and  oil  mixed,  4-6  tablespns.  chopped 
onion,  2  or  3  teaspn;.  browned  flour,  i]4  teaspn.  white 
tlour,  3  cups  milk,  salt.  Heat  onion  in  oil,  add  flour  and  mashed 
potato,  then  milk  and  salt  with  a  little  chopped  parsley.  If  too 
thick,  add  a  little  more  milk  or  water. 

Slioed  Potato  Soup 

1  pt.  of  potato  in  thick  slices,  i  medium  sized  onion  chopped, 
salt.  Cook  until  potatoesare  tender  but  not  soft;  add  i  tablespn. 
butter,  or  2-3  tablespns,  cream  with  milk  to  make  i%-i}4  qt. 
of  soup,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley.  Finely-sliced  celery  may  be 
used  in  place  of  onion. 

For  parsnip  soup  substitute  parsnip  for  half  or  all  of  the  potato. 

Vegetable  Soup — Hilk 
1/4  tablespn.  oil.  or  2  table-  scant  !4  cup  stale  bread 

spns.  melted  butter  crumbs 

4  tablespns.  finely. sliced  3  cups  boiling  water 

celery  i}i  cup  milk 

2/4  tablespns.  chopped  cabbage      salt 
2^4  tablespns.  chopped  carrot  i  tablespn.  parsley 

2  medium  sized  onions  sliced  thin 

Simmer,  but  do  not  brown,  vegetables  in  oil  10-20  m.,  add 
boiling  water  and  bread  crumbs  and  cook  till  vegetables  are  very 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


tender.  Rub  through  colander  or  not  as  preferred.  Add  milk, 
salt  and  parsley.  Reheat.  If  too  thick  add  more  milk  or  water. 
Soup  may  be  thickened  slightly  with  pastry  or  rice  flour  instead  of 
crumbs. 

Hayflower  Soup 
3  level  tablespns  (i^  cup)raw  i  tablespn.  butter 

nut  butter  or  meal  i-iH  tablespn.  flour 

1  cup  each  tomato,  onion  and  i  qt.  milk 
corn                                                                    salt 

2  cloves  garlic  f^  teaspn.  celery  salt 

Cook  nut  butter,  onion  and  garlic  in  salted  water;  when  tender 
add  tomato  and  corn;  heat.  Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  pour 
hot  milk  over  gradually,  stirring.  Boil  up  well,  combine  with 
vegetables,  add  salt  and  celery  salt,  and  if  necessary,  water  to  thin. 
A  little  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter,  but  the  soup  is 
excellent  without  either. 

ir    OTster  Bay  Soup 
I  qt.  sliced  oyster  plant  (about  H-J^  pt.  cream 

20  roots,  3  bunches  or  less)  i-ij^  tablespn.  flour 

i-iK  pt.  chopped  cabbage  2-2?^  teaspns.  salt 

I  pt.  milk  /4-1  teaspn.  olive  oil 

Cook  oyster  plant  in  i}4  pt.  water;  when  nearly  tender,  add 
salt.  Cook  cabbage  till  tender  (20-25  m.),  in  so  little  water  that 
it  will  be  nearly  dry  when  done.  Add  milk,  heat,  strain;  add 
liquid  from  oyster  plant.  There  should  be  3  pts.  of  liquid  in  all. 
Boil,  stir  in  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  the  oil  and  part  of  the 
cold  milk.  Boil  up  well.  Add  cooked  oyster  plant.  Heat. 
Do  not  make  too  thick.  The  flour  may  be  omitted  entirely. 
The  oil  may  be  cooked  with  the  oyster  plant. 

\^  Milk  Stow  of  Cabbage — White  or  Hed 

I  pt.  chopped  cabbage  2  level  tablespns.  butter 

I  tablespn.  chopped  onion  i  }4  level  tablespn,  flour 

I  pt.  water  i  pt.  boiling  milk 

chopped  parsley 

Cook  cabbage  and  onion  in  the  water  20-25  "i-  leaving  }4  pt. 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


92  THE    LAUREL 

of  liquid.     Blend  butter  and  flour  and  pour  hot  miik   over;  boil, 
add  cooked  cabbage  and  chopped  parsley.     Heat.     Serve. 
Milk  Stew  of  Oyster  Ftant 
Cook  I  qt.  of  sliced  oyster  plant  in  a  small  quantity  of  water. 
Add  salt  when  nearly  tender;   drain,    add   rich  milk  to  liquor  to 
make  i  qt.     Pour  over  oyster  plant,  heat,  add  salt.     Turn  into 
tureen  containing  %  cup  heavy  cream,  or  i  tablespn.  butter. 
Cream  Stew  of  Oyster  Plant 
Cook  oyster  plant  in  water  and  add  heavy  cream. 

Oyster  Plant  and  Celery  Soup 
Equal  quantities  sliced  oyster  plant  and  celery  cooked;  water, 
cream,  with  or  without  a  little  flour  to  thicken,  salt. 
Oyster  Plant  and  Com  Soup 
?3  qt.  (i  bunch)  sliced  3H  cups  water 

o.vster  plant  H-i  tablespn.  flour 

%  cup  corn  %  cup  cream,  salt 

Cook  oyster  plant,  drain,  add  water  to  liquor  to  make  3  J^  cups. 
when  boiling,  thicken  and  add  corn,  oyster  plant  and  cream, 
with  salt.     Heat,  serve. 


Bisque  of  Com 

1  pt.  corn  i-ij^  tablespn.  butter 

2  J^  pts.  water  %-%  cup  cream,  whipped 

1  tablespn.  flour 

Heat  butter,  add  flour,  then  hot  water;  stir  into  corn  with 
salt;  heat,  turn  over  whipped  cream  in  soup  tureen  and  send  to 
table  at  once. 

Butter  may  be  omitted,  and    the   water  thickened  with  flour: 

Bisque  of  Cuoumber 

2  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  i  pt.  rich  milk 

1  pt,  water,  salted  r  level  tablespn.  flour 

2  small  onions,  sliced  %-)^  cup  cream 
4  large  cucumbers,  grated                salt 

>^-i  teaspn,  celery  salt 


ovGoo<^lc 


SOUPS  93 

Cook  onion  in  nut  milk  (made  by  blending  raw  nut  butter  and 
water)  until  tender,  add  the  cucumbers  and  cook  5  m.,  add  celery 
salt  and  milk,  thicken  with  flour;  rub  through  colander,  add  salt, 
milk  or  water  to  thin  if  necessary,  and  cream,  whipped  or  plain. 
Serve  immediately. 

■A-    HUk  and  Tomato  Biaque 

I  pt.  chopped  cabbage  i  qt.  stewed  tomatoes,  strained 

1  pt.  milk  I  tablespn.  flour 

I  tablespn.  butter  yi  cup  cream 

a  teaspns.  flour  salt 

Cook  cabbage  20-25  m-.  '"  just  enough  water  to  cook  it  tender. 
-\dd  milk,  heat,  strain.  Heat  butter  and  the  2  teaspns.  of  flour 
and  add  cabbage  flavored  milk. 

Thicken  tomato  with  I  tablespn.  of  flour  and  add  thickened  milk 
just  before  serving.  Add  salt  the  last  thing.  Turn  overwhipped 
cream  in  soup  tureen  or  serve  the  cream  by  teaspoonfuls  on  each 
plate  of  soup.     Cream  may  be  omitted. 

Milk  may  be  Savored  with  onion  instead  of  cabbie,  or  not 
Savored  at  all,  but  the  cabbage  gives  an  exceptionally  line  flavor 
to  the  combination.  Equal  quantities  of  milk  and  tomato  may 
be  used,  or  twice  as  much  milk  as  tomato,  remembering  to  thicken 
both  milk  and  tomato  (if  all  the  flour  is  put  into  the  milk  it 
makes  it  too  thick  to  blend  well  with  the  tomato),  to  combine 
juit  before  serving,  and  to  add  the  salt  last. 

Milk  and  Tomato  Bisque,  with  Eggs—'Starohless 
1%  cup  rich  milk  2  eggs 

!^  cup  water  i  cup  strained  tomato 

%  tablespn.  oil  or  melted  butter     salt 

Cook  milk,  water,  oil  and  eggs  the  same  as  a  boiled  custard. 
Remove. from  fire,  add  the  hot  tomato  gradually,  stirring,  then 
salt.     Serve  at  once. 


■k    Nut  and  Tomato  Biaqne 
y^  cup  roasted  nut  butter  3  cups 

I  cup  rich  strained  tomato  salt 


t,zcob,GoO<^lc 


94  THE   LAUREL 

Stir  butter  smooth  with  tomato,  add  boiling  water,  heat  and 
add  plenty  of  salt.  This  Soup  requires  no  flavoring,  but  onion, 
garlic,  mint,  caraway,  or  a  delicate  flavoring  of  thyme,  are  all 
nice  with  it. 

ir    Hut  and  Tomato  Bisque  No.  2 
2  tablespns.  raw  nut   butter   cooked   in  water  }4  to  i  hr.,  in- 
stead of  the   roasted    nut  butter.     Flavor  with  onion,  garlic,  or 
delicately  with  thyme,  if  desired. 

Bisque  of  Spinach 
2  qts.  spinach  lj4  tablespn.  chopped  onion 

%  pts.  milk  1-3  stalks  celery 

;-i  J^  tablespn.  oil  or  melted  H  teaspn.  celery  salt 

butter  salt 

i/^  tablespn.  flour 

Heat  milk,  onion  and  celery  in  double  boiler,  for  20  m.,  strain, 
pour  liquid  over  oil  and  flour  heated  (without  browning)  in  sauce- 
pan; add  salt  and  celery  salt  and  turn  on  to  spinach  (which  has 
been  cooked  and  chopped  fine  or  rubbed  through  a  colander) 
gradually,  stirring.     Serve  hot. 

CHOWDEBS 

Many  of  the  chowders  are  almost  a  "full  meal"  in  themselves. 
I  can  think  of  no  luncheon  more  delightful  than  a  nut  chowder 
with  finger  croutons,  beaten  biscuit  or  whole  wheat  wafers,  with 
fruit  or  other  not  too  rich,  dessert. 

Raw  nut  butter  may  be  used  in  all  these  chowders  in  place  of 
butter  or  oil,  giving  a  meaty  flavor. 

A  smaller  proportion  of  liquid  may  be  used  when  desired.  The 
vegetable  straining  left  from  a  consomm^,  rubbed  through  the 
colander,  make  an  excellent  foundation  for  chowders. 

it    Seashore  Chowder — Com 
t  pt.  to  I  qt.  milk  5  small  onions  sliced 

I  pt.  water  i  qt.  potato  in  small  pieces 

I  pt.  corn  grated  or  chopped  (not  slices) 

2-3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SOUPS  95 

Heat  oil  (without  browning)  in  kettle,  add  onions,  simmer 
lo  m,,  then  add  the  water,  boiling,  with  salt  and  potatoes. 
Cook  until  potatoes  are  just  tender,  not  soft;  add  the  milk,  hot, 
and  then  the  corn.  Heat  to  boiling  and  serve  with  crackers. 
When  fresh  grated  corn  is  used,  of  course  it  should  be  cooked  in 
a  double  boiler  for  lo-i  5  m.  before  adding  to  chowder. 

The  chowder  may  be  thickened  a  trifle  if  the  larger  quantity 
of  milk  is  used,  but  the  smaller  is  the  usual  quantity.  Sometimes 
only  one-half  as  much  potato  as  of  corn  is  used. 

Dried   corn  chopped  after  soaking  makes  an  unusually  fine 
chowder. 
Water  and  cream  are  better  than  milk. 

A  little  browned  flour  is  thought  by  some  to  be  an  improvement. 
Fine  chopped  trumese  gives  the   chowder  a  little   more   of 
the  seashore  effect. 

Com  and  Carrot  Chowder— TTnusually  Fine 
l-i  J^  tablespn.  oil  or  melted  butter  ^-i  cup  corn 

I  medium  onion,  sliced  2j4-3  cups  rich  milk 

I  cup  carrot  in  small,  thin  pieces  salt 

I  pt.  water 

Heat  onion  and  carrot  in  oil,  add  water,  cook  tender,  add  hot 
milk,  and  corn  with  salt.     Heat. 

}4-H  cup  of  tomato  may  be  added  for  variety. 

ir    Nut  Chowder 

2-3  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  J4-i  cup  trumese,  shredded 

I  medium  onion,  sliced  fine  or  in  dice 

/4  cup  carrot  in  small  pieces  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  shredded 

(fancy  shapes  if  convenient)  parsley,  chopped  or  picked 
^  cup  finely-sliced  celery  into  small  pieces 

I  cup  stewed  tomato  }4-i  cup  cream 

I  cup  nutmese,  shredded  or  water 

in  dice  salt 

Rub  nut  butter  smooth  with  water,  add  the  tomato  and  more 
water;  cook  j4  hour.  Cook  together  carrots  and  onion  and  add 
without  draining  to  nut  butter  stock.      Cook  celery  till  perfectly 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


96  THE    LAUREL 

tender  and  add  with  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked;  add  salt, 
nutmese  and  trumese,  eggs,  parsley  and  cream,  with  more  water 
if  required.     Let  stand  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

One  cup  of  oyster  plant  with  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked 
is  a  great  improvement.  %  cup  of  turnip  in  dice,  cooked  by 
itself  and  drained,  and  a  few  pieces  of  cooked  red  beet,  in  fancy 
shapes,  may  be  added  just  as  the  chowder  goes  to  the  table. 

Potato  and  Onion  or  Celery  Chowder 
2  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  i  pt.  water 

I  pt.  potato  in  small  pieces  2  or  3  onions,  sliced 

Rub  nut  butter  smooth  with  water,  heat  to  boiling,  add  salt 
and  onions,  cook  10  m.,  add  potatoes  and  cook  until  tender. 
Finish  with  water  and  cream,  orwateralone.     i  cup  finely-sliced 
celery  may  be  cooked  with  the  potato  instead  of  the  onion,  and 
chopped  parsley  added  at  the  last. 

Nut  butter  may  be  omitted  and  cream  used. 

■A-   Tomato  Cream  Chowder 

2-3  tablespns.  oil  or  butter  i  pt.  stewed  tomato 

■2  large  onions,  sliced  i  pt.  thin  cream  sauce 

Salt 

Simmer  onion,  carefully,  in  oil  until  tender,  add  tomato,  heat 
and  add  cream  sauce  with  necessary  salt.  Onion  may  be  cooked 
in  a  small  quantity  of  salted  water  and  oil  omitted. 

Add  stewed  celery  for  Celery  and  Tomato  Chowder. 

i(    Oyster  Plant  Chowder 
I J4  tablespn.  oil  or  butter  i  J4  pt,  water  (including  that  in 

I  large  onion,  sliced  which  the  oyster  plant  was 

I  pt.  potato,  in  small  pieces  cooked) 

I  pt.  oyster  plant,  partly  i^  pt.  rich  milk  or  thin  cream 

cooked  salt,         crackers 

Simmer  onion  in  oil,  add  water,  potato  and  oyster  plant,  with 
salt;  cook;  add  hot  milk  and  more  salt  if  necessary.  Pour  over 
split  or  whole  crackers  in  tureen. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SOUPS  97 

ir    Another 
Leave  out  potato  and  use  more  oyster  plant  and  onion. 

String  Bean  and  Celery  Chowder 
I  part  cooked  celery  and  2  parts  string  beans  with  rich  milk, 
thickened  a  trifle.     Salt. 

Celery,  Onion  and  Com  Chovder 
Equal  parts  celery  and  corn.     Cook  onion  and  celery  in  butter 
(or  salted   water   only),    add   water,   then  milk  and  cream,  corn 
and  parsley.     Heat.    Serve. 

Bice  and  V^etable  Chowder  lof  things  on  hand) 
split  peas  soup  tomato  and  okra  soup 

string  beans  hard  boiled  eggs 

celery  in  tomato  boiled  rice 

Slice  hard  boiled  eggs,  mix  all  ingredients,  heat  and  serve. 

i(    Boyal  Vegetable  Chowder 
a  few  mashed  green  or  canned  asparagus  tips 

yellow  split  peas  tomato 

carrot  parsley 

onion  milk,  a  little 

canned  peas  cream,  a  little 

A  little  canned  okra  when  convenient. 


The  term  "pur^e,"  as  used  in  this  connection,  means  a  iiicA 
soup  of  ingredients  rubbed  through  a  fine  colander.  Thicker 
purees  of  cooked  nuts,  fruits,  legumes  or  vegetables  are  served 
as  true  meat  dishes,  entries,  side  dishes  or  relishes,  according  to 
their  nature. 

Almond  Pnr^e — small  quantity 
Very  nourishing  and  digestible  for  invalids. 

Rub  2  tablespns.  of  almond  butter  smooth  with  i-i  %  cup  of 
water.  Just  boil  up  over  the  fire  (or  cook  in  double  boiler  till 
thick),  add  salt,  serve.     The  proportion  of  water  may  be  varied 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


98  THE   LAUREL 

Split  Peaa  Purde 

I  cup  split  peas  I  small  onion,  sliced 

3-4  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  salt 

^  large  bay  leaf  water 

a  few  celery  tops  or  H  teaspn.  i  tablespn.  butter 

celery  seed  in  piece  of  muslin  J^  tablespn.  tlour 

a  pinch  of  sage  i  teaspn.  grated  onion 

Cook  peas,  raw  nut  butter,  bay  leaf,  celery  tops  and  onion  all 
together  in  salted  water,  rub  through  colander,  turn  on  to  butter 
and  flour  which  have  been  heated  together  (or  the  butter  and 
flour  may  be  rubbed  tc^ether  and  stirred  into  the  pur^e),  add 
necessary  water,  salt,  sage  and  the  teaspoon  of  fresh  grated  onion ; 
simmer  for  5  m.  Serve  with  strips  of  bread,  or  finger  croutons. 
The  teaspoon  of  onion  at  the  last  is  very  important. 

Pur6e  of  FotRtoes 
Boil  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  sliced  onion,  stalks  of  celery 
and  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  plenty  of  salted  water  till  potatoes  are 
tender.  Rub  through  colander,  reheat,  thicken  just  enough  to 
hold  the  ingredients  together,  turn  over  whipped  cream  in  the 
tureen  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  Raw  nut  butter  gives 
a  fine  flavor  to  this  pur^e,  cook  it  with  the  potatoes  and  use  less 
or  no  cream. 

Purde  of  Bago 
K  cup  sago  a  sprig  of  parsley 

I  pt.  water  iK-iH  pt.  milk 

^  small  bay  leaf  salt 

I  large  stalk  of  celery,  crushed,        yolk  of  i  small  egg 

or  a  few  celery  tops  X  cup  cream 

I  medium  onion,  sliced  chopped  parsley  if  desired 

Wash  sago  and  cook  with  bay  leaf,  celery,  parsley  and  onion 
in  the  vvater  until  clear;  add  hot  milk,  rub  through  colander,  add 
salt  and  keep  hot.  Just  before  serving,  beat  together  the  yoik 
of  the  e^  and  the  cream,  stir  several  spoonfuls  of  hot  soup  into 
the  mixture,  turn  all  into  the  soup,  stir  well,  but  do  not  boil, 
add  chopped  parsley,  serve  at  once. 


ovGoo^^lc 


SOUPS  99 

OUXl  FAHOUB  SOtrPS 

This  is  the  list  of  soups,  made  from  left-overs,  for  which  people 
most  often  ask  our  recipes. 

They  are  from  a  small  institution,  with  a  family  of  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  members. 

The  cream  is- usually  a  little  from  the  top  of  the  can,  but  it 
gives  the  tinishing  touch. 

The  ingredients  are  usually  heated  together  and  put  through 
the  colander. 

No.  I — Seashore  chowder  with  fine  trumese  and  nutmese, 
and  onion  and  tomato  stew. 

No.  2 — Nut  and  tomato  bisque,  with  remains  of  above,  put 
through  colander. 

No.  3 — Asparagus  on  toast  put  through  colander;  milk,  con- 
somm4,  a  trifle  of  tomato, — oyster  flavor. 

No.  4 — Consomm^,  strainings  from  consomm^,  chick  peas, 
trumese  and  gravy  from  trumese  pie. 

No.  5 — Cream  of  asparagus  soup,  dry  Lima  beans  and  dried 
corn  succotash,  consomm^,  baked  beans,  green  peas,  milk  and 
cream. 

No.  6 — Baked  beans,  Lima  beans,  cream  of  peas  soup,  milk. 

No.  7 — Strainings  from  consomm^,  put  through  colander, 
thin  cream,  tomato. 

No  8 — Left-overs  from  above,  string  beans,  lentils,  milk: 
thickened  a  little. 

No.  9 — Consomm^  of  nut  butter  instead  of  stock,  lentils, 
water,  cream. 

No.  lO — Left-over  from  above,  tomato,  creamed  onions. 

No.  II — Consomm^,  spinach  water,  carrots,  onions,  garlic, 
tomato,  chopped  parsley. 

No.  12 — Left-over  from  above,  baked  beans,  skimmed  milk. 

No.  13 — Carrot  water,  onions,  garlic,  tomato,  browned  flour. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


lOO  THE   LAUREL 

beans,   bay  leaf.      This  tasted  like  beans  with  tomato  sauce. 

No.  14 — Corn  chowder,  peas  and  tomato  soup,  pilau,  milk  and 
water. 

No.  15 — Baked  beans,  string  beans,  milk  and  cream. 

No.  16 — Cream  of  peas  soup,  lentil,  spinach  water,  tomato,  a 
little  consomm^. 

FBUIT  BOtrPS 

Served  with  nuts,  nut  wafers  or  popped  corn,  are  very  refresh- 
ing often,  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

And  when  something  must  be  served  in  the  evening,  those 
not  too  tart,  may  be  served  with  cocoanut  crisps,  pastry  in  fancy 
shapes,  cookies  or  sponge  cakes  and  nuts. 

Fruit  soups  are  served  hot,  in  cups,  and  cold  or  slightly  fro- 
zen, in  glasses. 

Sea  moss,  sago  or  tapioca  (^  to  J^cup  s^o  and  %  to  %  cup 
tapioca  to  each  3  pts.  of  soup)  make  the  most  suitable  foundations 
for  them. 

Honey  instead  of  cane  sugar  may  be  used  to  sweeten. 

The  white  of  egg  beaten,  sweetened  a  trifle  and  flavored  deli- 
cately with  rose,  lemon  or  orange  may  be  put  on  to  each  cup  in 
roses  with  a  pastry  tube  or  dropped  on  by  teaspoonfuls. 

Whipped  cream  may  be  used  with  some. 

Berries,  pieces  of  orange  or  slices  of  banana  are  sometimes 
served  in  the  soup. 

Odds  and  ends  of  sauces  can  be  utilized,  and  in  the  summer, 
all  sorts  of  fresh  fruits. 

Thin  slices  of  Brazil   nuts,  crisp  toasted  almonds,    English 
walnuts,  pecans  or  hickory  nuts  are  suitable  accompaniments. 
8trawb«ny  and  Pineapple  Soup 
^-K   cup  of  sago  I /^  cup  pineapple  juice 

or  %  cup  lemon  juice 

K-M  cup  of  tapioca  sugar,  if  necessary 

2/4  cups  strawberry  juice  salt 


o,Goo<^lc 


Put  sago  or  tapioca  iato  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler  with 
I  cup  of  warm  water.  Soak  s^o  i  hr.,  tapioca  lo  m.  to  2  hrs., 
according  to  the  kind.  When  soaked,  pour  i  cup  of  boiling 
water  over,  add  a  little  salt  and  cook  until  transparent.  Add 
strawberry,  pineapple  and  lemon  juice,  and  sugar  to  make  deli- 
cately sweet.  Heat  to  just  below  the  boiling  point  and  serve  at 
once,  or  cool. 

Small  pieces  of  pineapple  make  a  pleasant  addition. 

Cherry  or  currant  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  straw- 
berry. 

If  too  thick,  a  little  water  or  juice  may  be  added. 

Other  suitable  fruit  juices  may  be  substituted  for  the  ones 
given:  with  those  of  strong  and  positive  flavor  a  larger  propor- 
tion of  water  may  be  used.  Of  course,  with  some  tart  juices, 
no  lemon  juice  would  be  required. 

Cherry  Soup 

%  cup  tapioca,  3  cups  vrater,  i  pt.  juice  from  dark  red  canned 
or  stewed  cherries.  Flavor  with  oil  of  lemon  or  orange  rind  if 
desired. 

May  add  some  of  the  cherries  just  before  serving. 

8ea  Uoaa  Fruit  Soup 

2  cups  diluted  red  raspberry  juice  }^  cup  orange  juice 

■2  level  teaspns.  sea  moss  farine  if  3  or  +  teaspns.  lemon  juice 

soup  is  to  be  served  cold,  or  3  tablespns.  sugar  flavored 
5  if  warm  with  the  oil  of  the  orange 

Stir  moss  into  cold  fruit  juice,  heat  in  double  boiler  25-30  m., 
stirring  often;  add  lemon  and  orange  juice  and  sugar,  stir  till 
sugar  is  dissolved.     Serve  warm  or  cold. 

BoondinaTian  Fruit  Soup 

/^  cup  sago  %  cup  stewed  raisins 

5  cups  water  ^  cup  tart  fruit  juice 

I  cupcooked  prunes  in  pieces      )^-i  cup  sugar 

Soak  sago  in  i  cup  warm  water,  add  the  quart  of  water  boiling. 


.b,Coot^lc 


I02  THE   LAUREL 

with  salt,  and  cook  until  sago  is  transparent.     Add  other  ingre- 
dients, heat,  serve. 

Dried   peaches,    apricots  or  apples  may  be  used  sometimes. 
Grape,  currant  or  cranberry  are  suitable  juices. 
Grape  Jnioe  Cream  Soup 

1  pt.  water  3  tablespns.  finely-sliced  citron 

I  cup  Concord  grape  juice  2  tablespns.  sugar 

4.  tablespns.  raisins  yi  cup  cream 

4.  tablespns.  currants 

Stew  raisins,  currants  and  citron  together,  add  other  ingre- 
dients, heat,  serve. 

Excellent  without  cream. 

Baisin  and  Almond  Broth— small  quantity 

Stew  I  tablespn.  raisins  cut  fine,  in  i  cup  of  water  >^  to  l 
hour.  Add  2  teaspns.  almond  butter  stirred  smooth  with  2 
tablespns.  of  water,  a  trifle  of  salt  and  a  little  sugar  if  desired 
or  allowed. 

Blueberry  and  Coooanut  Soup 

Steep  grated  cocoanut  in  rich  blueberry  juice  in  a  not  too  hot 
place  for  20  m.  Strain.  Add  sugar  as  required  and  a  little 
lemon  juice  if  necessary,  with  or  without  dairy  cream.  Serve 
cold  with  sponge  cake  or  cookies.  Rich  cocoanut  milk  may  be 
used  instead  of  grated  cocoanut. 

Tomato  and  BaUin  Sonp 

1  cup  seeded  raisins;  stew  till  tender.  Drain  and  add  to  the 
liquid,  water  to  make  i^  cup,  \)4  cup  strained  tomato,  salt,  4 
tablespns.  cream  with  2  teaspns.  sugar. 

SOUP  GABNISHES  AND  ACCOHFAinHKETTS 

CrontoDB 
Of  all  the  accompaniments  to  soups,  croutons  (crusts  of  bread) 
are  perhaps  the  most  desirable  as  well  as  most  practical.    To  make 
them,  cut  slices  of  bread,  not  too  fresh,  into  any  desired  shapes. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SOUPS  103 

dry,  slowly  at  first,  in  a  warm  oven,  then  gradually  increase  the 
heat  until  they  are  of  a  delicate  cream  color,  for  such  soups  as 
bean,  Swiss  lentil  or  bouillon;  but  for  cream  soups,  dry  to  crisp- 
ness  without  browning. 

A  favorite  shape  is  made  by  cutting  rather  thin  loaves  of  bread 
into  half  inch  slices,  laying  3  or  4  together  and  cutting  them 
diagonally  across  the  narrow  way  of  the  slice.  This  gives  dainty 
strips,  convenient  and  attractive.  The  most  common  way  is  to 
cut  slices  straight  across  each  way,  leaving  the  bread  in  dice. 
MlBoellaneoUB 

Croutons,  however,  are  not  suitable  for  very  delicate  flavored 
soups,  such  as  cream  of  corn  or  cream  of  rice.  For  these,  there 
is  nothing  equal  to  dainty  cream  or  nut-shortened  sticks,  or  little 
soup  crackers. 

Cook  some  of  the  small  Italian  pastes  (you  can  be  sure  that 
they  are  Italian  only  by  buying  them  of  the  Italian  dealer  him- 
self), vermicelli,  soprafini,  ditalini,  acini  di  pepe,  or  others,  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender  (from  10  to  15  m.),  drain  and 
add  to  suitable  soups  in  the  proportion  of  one  ounce  to  ^-i  qt. 
of  soup. 

Add  a  few  kernels  of  popped  corn  to  each  plateful  of  corn  soup. 

Roll  lettuce  leaves  in  tight  rolls  and  cut  oR  in  slender  rings;  pick 
up  with  the  fingers  and  drop  into  hot  soup;  or  cut  lettuce  with 
v^etable  cutter,  round  or  in  any  not  too  fine  shapes  and  scatter 
into  plates  of  soup  as  served. 

Cut  left-overs  of  pie  crust  into  fancy  shapes.  Bake  and  drop 
into  each  plate  of  soup  in  serving.  They  must  not  stand  in  the 
soup  long  or  they  will  dissolve. 

Dice  Boyale 

Coat  ^  in.  dice  of  bread  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  just  before 
serving.  Serve  a  few  in  each  dish  of  soup,  or  throw  into  tureen 
just  before  sending  to  table.  May  roll  cubes  in  finely-chopped 
ooion  or  parsley. 


t,zcob,GoO<^lc 


I04  THE   LAUREL 

Cream  Soap  Balls 
I  large  tablespn.  oil  4  tablespns.  finely- si  iced  cel- 

H  cup  pastry  flour  ery,  or 

I  cup  boiling  water  }i  teaspn.  cetery  salt 

yi  teaspn.  salt  2  teaspns.  chopped  parsley 

(parsley  may  be  omitted) 

Heat*  oil  in  frying  pan  until  hot,  not  brown.  Add  half  the 
flour  and  rub  to  a  paste,  then  add  boiling  water  gradually,  stir- 
ring until  smooth,     Stir  in  remainder  of  flour  dry. 

When  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  creamy  and  well  cooked, 
remove  from  the  Are,  cool  a  little,  and  stir  in  celery,  parsley 
and  salt.       The  mixture  will  be  very  stiff. 

Stand  in  cool  place  until  perfectly  cold,  then  shape  into  balls 
\%  to  1%  in.  in  diameter,  or  cones  i %  in.  at  the  fiase,  or  cubes 
of  1%  in.,  or  sticks  3j4  to  4  in.  in  length  by  }i  of  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Roll  in  fine  zwieback  or  cracker  crumbs,  then  in 
beaten  egg  (add  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  water  to  each  egg),  then 
in  crumbs  ;^in. 

Place  on  oiled  tins  a  short  distance  apart,  and  set  in  cool  place 
till  IS  m.  before  serving,  then  put  into  a  quick  oven  and  bake 
until  a  delicate  brown  and  cracked  a  little.     Serve  immediately. 

If  baked  too  long  or  too  slowly,  they  will  not  keep  their  shape. 

This  makes  12  to  14  balls.  %  a  beaten  egg  may  be  added 
when  the  celery  is,  but  the  balls  are  more  creamy  without  it. 

The  balls  may  be  made  the  day  before  required,  kept  in  the 
ice  box  and  baked  at  serving  time. 

Variation  No.  i.  Use  2  tablespns.  of  small  pieces  of  hickory 
or  other  nut  meats  instead  of  the  celery. 

Variation  No.  2.  Use  2  tablespns.  of  black  walnut  meal  (made 
by  rubbing  meats  throi^h  a  fine  colander  with  a  potato  masher), 
and  a  little  onion. 

Variation  No.  3,  Use  %  to  ^  teaspn.  grated  lemon  rind,  in- 
stead of  other  flavorings. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SOUPS  lo; 

Variation  No.  4.  Use  chopped  trumese,  with  sage  and  onion 
in  place  of  the  celery. 

The  savory  balls  are  used  with  the  plainer  soups,  and  vice 
versa;  or  if  both  soups  and  balls  are  highly  seasoned,  use  con- 
trasting flavors;  for  instance,  the  balls  with  lemon  rind  in  Nut 
French  soup. 

The  ^g  balls  should  be  used  with  care  as  they  destroy  the 
flavor  of  many  soups.  They,  poached  eggs,  and  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  eggs  are  especially  suitable  for  some  cream  soups. 

ir    Soup  Balls — Choux  batter 

1  cup  water  i  cup  pastry  flour 

2  tablespns.  butter  or  oil  4.  eggs 

Heat  water  and  oil  to  boiling,  stir  flour  in  dry,  stirring  and 
beating  well  with  batter  whip.  When  nearly  cold,  add  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  mixing  well,  until  all  are  in.  Beat  for  5  m.,  stand 
in  icebox  for  from  i  to  12  or  more  hours.  Drop  small  quanti- 
ties from  point  of  spoon  into  boiling  soup,  or  bake  or  boil  in  tiny 
balls,  flattened. 

Excellent  baked,  but  unusually  fine  boiled,  so  delightfully  free 
from  stickiness  or  doughiness. 

Egg  BaUs 

Rub  4  poached  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  paste.  Beat  with  salt  and 
the  white  of  i  raw  e^.  Form  into  balls  5i  to  i  in.  In  diameter. 
Roll  in  browned  flour  No.  i,  bake  just  before  serving.  May 
beat  white  ot  e^  first. 

The  raw  yolk  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  the  white.  The 
balls  may  be  boiled  for  5  m.  in  the  soup,  instead  of  being  baked. 

ir    Boyal  Paste 

Beat  together  4  eggs,  j4  cup  thin  cream,  %  teaspn.  salt. 
Pour  into  oiled  tin,  place  in  pan  of  water;  bake  slowly  until  firm. 
Turn  from  molds  at  once. 

When  paste  is  to  be  cut  into  fancy  shapes  with  vegetable  cut- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


I06  THE    LAUREL 

ters  it  should  not  be  over  %  in.  deep  in  the  pans;  but  if  for  dice, 
it  may  be  any  depth. 

This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  6  qts.  of  soup. 

I  often  tint  parts  of  paste  with  vegetable  or  fruit  colors, 
spinach  green,  parsley,  carrots  or  cranberries. 

The  left-overs  fr  jm  cutting  may  be  chopped  for  another  soup 
or  a  roast. 

Use  1  %  tablespn.  of  cream  for  I  egg. 

Royal  may  be  flavored  with  onion  juice.  A  Jttle  very  fine 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  it  before  baking. 

Consomm^  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  cream. 

4  yolks  of  eggs  and  l   white   may   be   used  instead  of  4  whole 
eggs  with  the  same  quantity  of  liquid,  and  rich    milk  will  do  in- 
stead of  cream,  but  the  paste  will  not  be  as  tender. 
Spun  Eggs 

Break  eggs  into  cup  (2  for  each  quart  of  soup).  Leave  whole 
and  turn  slowly  into  rapidly  boiling  sf>up,  beating  briskly  with 
fork  or  wire  batter  whip,  until  egg  is  in  white  and  yellow  shreds. 
Boil  up  well  and  serve  soup  at  once.  Or,  beat  e^s  and  let  them 
stand  until  the  froth  subsides,  then  add  to  the  soup  in  the  same 
way. 

Thickening  for  Potato  Soap 
I  tablespn.  flour  ^  cup  cold  water  yolks  2  eggs 

Blend  Hour  and  water,  add  to  boiling  soup,  boil  up  well. 

Turn  some  of  the  hot  soup  slowly  on  to  the  beaten  yolks,  stir- 
ring, add  them  to  the  soup,  do  not  boil,  serve  at  once. 
Whipped  cream  may  be  added  to  potato  soup  just  before  serving. 
Bioe  Tlmbalea 
M  cup  rice  /^  teaspn.  salt 

I  cup  water  %  teaspn.  oil  or  melted  butter 

Soak  rice  in  water  for  half  an  hour,  add  salt  and  oil,  stir  well 
and  steam  without  stirring.  ^  to  i  hour.      Press  intosmall  oiled 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SOUPS  107 

molds.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  covered,  for  10  m.  Put  one 
in  the  center  of  eajh  plate  of  soup,  with  or  without  a  small  leaf 
of  parsley  on  top.      Rice  may  be  boiled. 

Dumplings 

Cut  bread  or  universal  dough  into  small  rounds  or  make  into 
very  small  balls;  let  rise  and  steam  20  m.  or  boil  10  to  15  m.  in 
rich  soup  just  before  serving,  or  boil  in  water  and  add  to  soup. 
Noodles 

I  have  had  equally  good  success  with  all  three  of  the  following 
combinations: — 

4  eggs,  salt,  iJ^-2  cups  bread  flour.     (Always  use  bread  flour.) 

3  eggs,  2  tablespns.  water,  salt,  i  teaspn.  melted  butter,  about  2 
cups  flour. 

Volks  4.  eggs,    2  tablespns.  water,    salt,  about  i}4  cup  flour. 

Beat  eggs  a  httle  with  salt,  add  water  if  used,  and  flour  for 
stiff  dough.     Knead  on  floured    board  until  dry  but  not  flakey. 

Then  cut  into  three  or  four  pieces  and  knead  each  piece,  with- 
out more  flour,  until  very  s.nooth.  Roll  each  piece  as  thin  and 
as  lai^e  as  possible,  some  say  to  the  thickness  of  a  fifty  cent 
piece,  hang  on  clothes  bars,  away  from  the  fire,  turning  often 
until  dry  but  not  brittle. 

Roll  up  without  flour  and  cut  into  fine  slices  from  the  end;  or 
fold  in  1%  in.  accordion  pleats  and  cut  fine,  or  cut  into  strips 
of  any  desired  width  and  cut  these  into  narrow  match-like  pieces; 
or  cut  into  rounds  or  fancy  shapes  with  vegetable  cutters.  If 
cut  in  the  first  two  ways,  shake  out  upon  a  cloth  or  board  and 
dry  >i  f o  I  hour. 

Add  noodles  to  boiling  consomm^  and  boil  rapidly,  stirring 
occasionally  with  a  fork,  for  10  to  20  m.,  or  until  tender. 

Serve  soup  at  once  or  noodles  will  become  pasty. 

Noodles  may  be  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water,  drained  and 
added  to  soup,  or  cooked  for  5  m.  in  water  and  finished  in  soup, 
giving  a  clearer  consomm^. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


I08  THE   LAUREL 

Noodles  may  be  cooked  in  Mother's  and  Nut  French  soup,  as 
well  as  in  bouillon  or  consomm^. 

Noodles  may  be  dried  thoroughly  and  stored  in  jars  or  close- 
covered  box,  almost  indefinitely;  but  will  require  a  much  longer 
cooking. 

^    Cream  Noodles 

Beat  I  egg  light,  add  i  tablespn.  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
then  beat  in  $-4%  tablespns.  flour. 

Turn  slowly  in  a  slender  stream  into  rapidly  boiling  soup, 
stirring  constantly;  boil  up  well  and  serve  at  once. 

When  the  mixture  is  poured  slowly  from  the  point  of  a  spoon, 
it  will  be  in  shreds,  and  when  cooked  will  be  firm  enough  to 
hold  its  shape,  but  not  hard. 


"  Cooking  is  not  drudgery — it  is  an  art,  .  .  .  No  one  who  stands 
by  a  hot  stove  ever  cooks.  That  party  only  waits.  The  cook  is 
always  on  the  ^ui  vive.  In  the  exaltation  and  exbileration  of  his 
artistic  services,  he  forgets  that  the  stove  is  hot." 

—Dr.  Harvey  W.    Wiley. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


ENTRIES  AND  BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON  AND 
SUFFER  DISHES 

"Entries  are  the  dishes  served  between  any  of  the  regular 
courses,"  one  writer  says.  Another, "Entries — a  conventional 
term  for  side  dishes."  Entries  proper  may  or  may  not  have  a 
large  proportion  of  strength  giving  elements;  but  in  this  book 
we  are  placing  the  foods  richest  in  proteids  under  the  head  of 
"true  meats." 

As  many  entries  make  good  breakfast,  luncheon  and  supper 
dishes  and  vice  versa,  it  seemed  best  to  group  these  all  together. 

CBOQUBTTE8 

Egg  for  dipping  croquettes  should  be  slightly  beaten  with  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  i  teaspn.  to  I  tablespn.  of  water  to  each  egg. 

The  whites  of  eggs  alone  (beaten  just  enough  to  mix  with  the 
water),  also  yolks  alone  or  crumbs  without  egg  may  be  used. 

Crumbs  may  be  cracker,  zwieback,  dry  bread  or  granella. 
Corn  meal,  flour,  or  a  mixture  of  crumbs  and  flour  are  used  for 
dipping.  For  vegetable  and  cereal  croquettes,  the  nut  meals 
are  excellent. 

Mix  fine  chopped  onion  and  parsley  with  egg  or  crumbs  some- 
times for  croquettes. 

Full  directions  for  shaping  and  baking  are  given  with  trumese 
croquettes. 

Suitable  croquettes  or  patties  may  be  served  on  beds  of  pilau, 
or  on  plain  boiled  rice  with  gravy,  or  with  macaroni  in  cream 
sauce,  and  some  are  used  as  garnishes  or  accompaniments  for 
true  meat  dishes. 

Croquette  Sanoe 
To  be  used  with  different  additions. 

1-2  tablespns.  butter  i  cup  hot  milk 

a-sH  tablespus.  flour  K-i  teaspn.  salt 


.b,Goo<^lc 


no  THE    LAUREL 

I  teaspn.  grated  onion  may  be  used  when  suitable  and  also  I 
egg,  but  croquettes  are  more  creamy  without  the  egg. 

Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  boiling  milk,  stirring; 
boil,  remove  from  fire,  add  whatever  is  to  be  used  for  croquettes, 
cool  thoroughly,  shape  into  cones  or  rolls,  set  in  cold  place  until 
ready  to  use. 

This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  the  equivalent  of  2  cups  of  fine 
chopped  meat. 

Com  Croquettes 
1  pt.  grated  corn,  (or  i  tablespns.  flour. 

I  can  of  com  well  drained)  i  egg 

I  pt.  stale  bread  crumbs  salt 

Mix,  shape,  bake.     These  croquettes  may  be  breaded  only. 

They  may  be  used  as  garnish  for  a  timbale  if  shaped  in  cones  or 

balls,  or  served  with  cream  sauce  as  a  separate  course. 

Celery  Croquettes 

I  cup  mashed  potato  2  tablespns.  chopped  nuts 

H  cup  finely-sliced  celery  (not  too  fine) 

i-ij^  teaspn.  butter  salt 

Do  not  cook  celery.  Mix  all  ingredients  while  potato  is  hot. 
Cool,  shape,  egg  and  crumb.  Stand  in  cold  place  until  ready 
to  bake. 

Bioe  Croquettea — oold  boiled  rioe 

Add  2  or  3  tablespns.  milk  to  2  cups  cold  boiled  rice.  Heat 
in  double  boiler  until  softened;  then  add  I  tablespn.  butter,  I 
beaten  egg  and  salt.  Cream  may  be  used  instead  of  milk  and 
butter.  Cool,  shape,  roll  in  nut  meal,  bake.  Serve  as  garnish 
for  a  ragout,  or  with  stewed  green  peas,  cream  or  lentil  gravy, 
or  maple  syrup  or  jelly. 

Bloe  Croquettes  Ko.  2 

Cook  1  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk  with  a  level  teaspn.  of  salt, 
in  a  double  boiler  until  rice  is  tender  and  milk  absorbed.  Add 
yolks  of  4  eggs  or  2  whole  eggs,  and  2-4  tablespns.  si^ar.     Cool, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  III 

shape,  e^,  crumb,  bake.  Serve  with  strawberry  or  fig  sauce, 
or  with  quince,  elderberry,  or  some  not  too  tart  jelly.  May 
cook  rice  in  half  milk  and  half  water,  and  if  desired  add  a  little 
butter.     Sugar  may  be  omitted. 

Bice  and  Fig  Croqaettes 
Add  I  cup  of  fine  cut  or  ground  fresh  figs  to  the  preceding 
recipe,  with  less  or  no  sugar:  l  teaspn.  of  vanilla  also  if  desired, 
and  serve  with  orange  or  cream  sauce  as  dessert  at  luncheon. 
Bread  Croquettes 

1  tablespn.  butter  i  egg 

2  tablespns.  flour  salt 

1  cup  milk  bread  crumbs 

Heat,  do  not  brown,  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  smooth;  pour 
milk  in  hot,  when  smooth,  remove  from  fire,  add  salt  and  egg 
and  enough  bread  crumbs  to  shape.  Cool,  shape  into  balls  or 
rolls,  bake.  Serve  as  a  garnish  or  as  a  separate  dish  with  or 
without  sauce.  The  mixture  may  be  flavored  with  some  of  the 
sweet  herbs  or  minced  onion. 

Oyster  Plant  Fatties 

1  pt.  cooked  pulp  of  oyster  plant        2  eggs,  or  about  K  cup 

2  tablespns.   cream,  with   oyster  cracker  crvimbs 
liquor  to  make  a  large  half-cup         salt 

(or  I  tablespn.  butter  with  milk 
and  the  liquor) 

Mix  all  ingredients;  sprinkle  buttered  shells  or  scallop  dishes 
with  crumbs,  put  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each  and  sprinkle 
tops  of  patties  with  crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  on  top 
grate  J-io  m.,  serve  at  once. 

Patties  may  be  served  as  a  second  course  at  dinner,  or  for  a 
luncheon  dish. 

For  pulp,  grind  about  three  bunches  of  oyster  plant  through 
the  medium  cutter  of  a  food  chopper.  Cook  in  a  small  amount 
of  water  until  just  tender,  adding  salt  about  5  m.  before  r 
ing  from  the  fire. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


112  THE   LAUREL 

ABparaguB  en  Croiutade 

Cut  the  top  crust  from  gems  baked  in  flat  oblong,  or  round 
gem  pans,  and  remove  the  soft  inside  part.     Warm  in  oven. 

Have  ready  one  cup  hot  cooked  asparagus  tips. 

Sauce — 3  tablespns.  butter  3  cups  hot  milk 

5-6  tablespns.  flour  salt 

I  egg 

Prepare  the  sauce  as  usual,  adding  beaten  e^  last,  heat  with- 
out boiling,  carefully  stir  in  the  asparagus  tips,  fill  the  crusts  and 
serve.  A  few  tips  may  be  reserved  and  pressed  into  the  sauce 
after  crusts  are  filled,  leaving  the  heads  sticking  up.  Green  peas 
or  stringless  beans  may  be  substituted  for  aspar^us.  Patty  pan 
pastry  crusts  may  be  used. 

Oyster  Plant  en  Croustade 

Remove  soft  inside  crumbs  (they  will  go  into  a  roast)  from 
gems.  Fill  with  oyster  plant  in  cream  sauce,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  chopped  parsley.  Heat  in  oven,  serve  with  celery 
plain  or  fringed. 

May  use  pastry  crusts. 

Vegetable  Cutlets 

Grate  or  grind  carrots;  cook,  salt,  drain.  Cut  young  tender 
string  beans  into  small  pieces  and  cook  in  salted  water.  Mix 
with  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potato,  add  grated  onion,  a  trifle 
of  crushed  garHc  if  liked,  chopped  parsley,  and  salt  if  neces- 
sary; shape  into  oblong  cakes,  egg,  crumb  or  dip  into  corn  meal 
or  flour.  Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them  in  the  pan  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  with  cream  sauce,  at  once. 

The  mixture  may  be  enclosed  in  pastry  crust  as  surprise  biscuit. 

•k    Squasli  Cutleta 

Cook  young,  tender  Fordhook  or  crook-neck  squash  in  %  in. 

shces.     Dip  in  egg  and  flour  or  crumbs.     Bake,  covered  at  first, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  113 

on  well  oiled  griddle  or  in  covered  pan  in  rather  hot  oven 
2  5-3  S  m.  or  until  squash  is  tender.  Serve  as  soon  as  done  as  an  en- 
tree or  as  a  garnish. 

May  soak  slices  in  ice  water  j4-l  hour;  drain  and  wipe  dry  be- 
fore dipping. 

Paonmber  Cutleta 

Slice  cucumbers  in  thick  slices  across,  or  if  small  cut  into 
halves  lengthwise.  Wipe  dry  with  a  towel  if  soaked  in  ice  water. 
Dip  in  e^  and  crumbs  or  cracker  dust.  Bake  covered  in  hot 
oven  until  tender,  20-30  m.  Serve  as  luncheon  dish  or  as  garn- 
ish for  a  meat  dish. 

A  little  fine  chopped  onion  may  be  sprinkled  over  before 
baking. 

ii  Cutlets  of  Com  Heal  Porridge,  or  Hasty  Padding 

Make  corn  meal  porridge  just  thick  enough  to  mold,  not  stiff. 
Cook  thoroughly  and  turn  into  bread  tins  or  other  molds  which 
have  been  wet  in  cold  water.  When  cold,  slice,  egg  and  crumb, 
or  dip  in  flour  (No.  i,  browned,  best).  Brown  in  hot  oven. 
Serve  plain  or  with  mushroom  sauce  or  maple  syrup  for  supper, 
breakfast  or  luncheon.  In  small  round  or  square  slices  it  may 
be  used  as  a  garnish  for  creamed  vegetables  or  true  meat  dishes. 

For  variety,  coarse  chopped  nuts  may  be  stirred  into  the 
porridge  before  molding. 

Porridge  may  be  molded  in  small  egg  cups  and  finished  the 
same  as  slices. 

Bioe  Cutlets 

Put  hot  boiled  rice  (cooked  in  water  or  part  milk)  into  square 
mold  or  brick  shaped  bread  tin  which  has  been  wet  in  cold  water, 
cover  close  and  stand  in  cold  place.  Slice,  dip  in  oil  or  melted 
butter  and  crumbs  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Serve  with  green 
peas,  mushroom  or  any  desired  sauce,  or  with  jelly,  honey  or 
maple  syrup. 

Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  or  in  French  toast  mixture  when  pre- 
ferred. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


114  'I'HE   LAUREL 

Com  Cakes 

I  can  corn,  chopped  (or  i  cup  milk 

1  pt.  fresh  grated)  7-7?^  level  tablespns.  cracker 
I  egg  crumbs  or  enough  to  thicken 

Bake  in  thick  cakes  on  griddle  on  top  of  stove  or  in  oven. 

Com  Oakea  No.  2 

2  cups  grated  corn  2  tablespns,  milk, 
(about  8  ears)  salt 

3  eggs  cracker  crumbs  to  thicken 

Bake  on  griddle  on  top   of  stove   or  set   in  oven  on  grate 
after  being  dropped  on  to  hot  griddle,  or  bake  in  shallow  gem  pans. 
it    Corn  Oysters 
2-2K  cups  (3  small  ears)  2  beaten  eggs 

grated  corn  not  too  young  salt 

Drop  batter  in  small  spoonfuls  on  hot  buttered  griddle.  Brown 
delicately  on  both  sides  and  serve  at  once.  Fine  cut  celery  may 
be  added  to  the  batter  before  baking.  Add  a  few  cracker  crumbs 
(not  bread  crumbs  or  flour)  if  corn  is  very  milky.  Canned  corn 
does  not  make  good  oysters. 

it    Oyster  Plant  Griddle  Calces 

1  cup  mixed  rich  milk  and  i  egg 
oyster  plant  broth                                    salt 

2  l°vel  tablespns.  flour  about  j4  cup  rolled 
I  /^  cup  oyster  plant  cooked  in  slices  cracker 

Bake  on  hot  buttered  griddle  on  stove  or  top  grate  of  oven. 

ir    Com  Custards 

J^  cup  grated  corn  H-i  teaspn.  salt 

1-2  teaspns.  sugar  2  eggs 

I  cup  milk 

Beat  eggs  and  mix  with  other  ingredients,  turn  into  oiled  cus- 
tard cups,  set  in  pan  of  water  in  oven  and  bake  until  firm  in  the 
center.  May  be  served  in  the  cups,  or  turned  out  carefully  after 
standing  a  few  minutes.  Serve  with  wafers  or  as  accompani- 
ment to  meat  dishes. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ir    Celery  Costards 
2  eggs  I  tablespn.  melted  butter 

1  cup  milk  /4  tablespn.  chopped  onion 
H  cup  fine  cut  celery  ^  teaspn.  salt 

Simmer  onion  and  celery  in  butter  without  browning.  Beat 
e^s  and  mix  all  ingredients.  Turn  into  custard  cups;  bake  in 
pan  of  water,  covered,  until  e^  is  set;  after  standing  a  few  min- 
utes, turn  out  of  cups  on  to  individual  dishes.  Serve  with  ripe 
olives  and  wafers  or  as  a  garnish  to  meat  dish.  May  turn  on  to 
broiled  rounds  of  trumese. 

if    Onion  Custards 

2  cups  fine  sliced  onion 
a  little  fine  sliced  celery 

salt 

Cook  onions  in  very  little  water  until  tender;  drain  slightly, 
add  celery  and  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  custard  cups  or  indi- 
vidual souffle  dishes  until  firm  in  center.  Unmold  on  to  platter 
or  chop  tray  and  surround  with  green  peas  in  cream  sauce.  On- 
ions may  be  rubbed  through  colander  after  cooking. 

Celery  and  HushroomB  &  la  Crfime 
1%  qt.  celery  in  inch  i  cup  mushrooms  in  quarters 

slices  or  eighths 

Cook,  celery  and  mushroons  separate  and  drain. 

Sauce — H  cup  oil  and  melted  H  cup  flour 

butter  I  egg  or  yolk  only 

%-/4  cup  chopped  onion  i  teaspn.  chopped  parsley 

salt 

Simmer  onion  in  oil  and  add  flour,  then  boiling  water  to  leave 
stiff  (perhaps  about  l  pt,);  when  smooth  remove  from  fire,  add 
salt,  parsley  and  beaten  e^.  Use  liquid  drained  from  celery 
and  mushrooms  with  water  in  the  sauce.  Put  layers  of  sauce, 
cooked  celery  and  mushrooms  in  baking  dish  with  sauce  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs  or  corn  meal,  heat  and  brown  in  oven.     A 


.b,Goo^^lc 


116  THE    LAUREL 

little  garlic  may  be  used  and  sometimes  a  small  quantity  of  cream 
with  a  very  little  strained  tomato  in  the  sauce. 

Tonng  IJma  Beans  &  la  Grdme 

Cook  young  tender  Lima  beans  and  use  in  place  of  celery  and 
mushrooms  in  above. 

Aaparagua  Tips  ft  Is  Crdme 
Use  cooked  asparagus  tips  with  the  heads  sticking  up  out  of  the 
cream  a  little,  instead  of  celery  and  mushrooms,  in  Celery  and 
Mushrooms  k  la  Cr^me. 

Oyater  Plant  and  Uuslirooms  ft  la  Crdme 
Cook  sliced  oyster  plant  (large  slices  cut  in  quarters)  not  too 
soft  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.      Drain  and  use  in  place  of 
trumese  in  Trumese  and  Mushrooms  i  la  Cr^me,   of  Trumese 
Dishes,  using  oyster  plant  liquor  instead  of  water  in  the  sauce. 
Maoaroni  and  Hushrooms  A  la  Crdme 
Use  one  of  the  smaller  varieties  of  macaroni,   one  that  will 
make  the  desired  size  when  cooked,  in  place  of  trumese  in  Tru- 
mese and  Mushrooms  4  la  Cr^me,  of  Trumese  Dishes. 
Ore«n  .Com  Pudding 
Accompaniment  to  roasts,  timbales  or  other  meat  dishes,  or  a 
luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

3  cups  (i3  ears)  grated  corn  2  tablespns.  butter  if  desired 

I  tablespn.  sugar  if  corn  is  i  qt.  milk 

not  sweet  i  teaspn.  salt 

4  eggs 
Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  yolks  of  eg^,  beat  a  little, 
add  corn  and  salt,  mix;  add  milk,  and  when  smooth  chop  in  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.    Bake  in  slow  oven  about  i  hour. 
Cover  until  near  the  last. 

CoTD  Pudding — no  milk 
3  cups  corn  pulp  i  tablespn.  sugar  if  necessary 

2-3  tablespns.  melted  butter  i  egg        salt 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  I  1 7 

If  corn  is  very  old  a  little  liquid  may  be  required,  or  if  very 
milky  a  few  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  pie  plates  or  pudding  dish 
to  a  nice  brown. 

Com  Pndding — no  eggs 
3  cups  corn  pulp  i  tablespn.  melted  butter 

1  pt.  milk  1  tablespn.  sugar  if  required 

I  teaspn.  salt. 

Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Canned  corn  may  be  used  in  winter.  Add  %  cup  of  sugar  and 
serve  as  a  dessert  sometimes. 

Oyster  Plant  Pudding — no  eegs 
8  large  roots  of  oyster  plant  l  tablespn.  cream 

(t  pt.  after  cooking)  i  tablespn.  oyster  liquor 

2  level  tablespns.  butter  i  tablespn.  milk 

salt 

Grind  scraped  oyster  plant  through  medium  cutter  of  food 
chopper,  cook  in  as  small  an  amount  of  water  as  possible  until 
tender,  not  soft;  add  salt,  drain  and  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Put  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs  or  granella 
and  chopped  parsley.  Turn  a  little  melted  butter  over  and 
brown  in  oven. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 
I  large  sweet  potato  i  tablespn.  butter 

I  qt.  milk  4  eggs 

salt 

Peel  and  grate  raw  potato.  Pour  hot  milk  over  and  let  it  boil 
up-  Remove  from  fire,  add  salt,  butter  and  beaten  eggs;  bake 
in  buttered  pudding  dish  in  moderate  oven  20  m.  or  until  firm  in 
center. 

This  dish  (with  the  eggs  and  milk)  may  serve  as  the  meat  dish 
of  a  meal. 

Squash  Padding 

To  each  pint  of  mashed  winter  squash  add  \-i%  tablespn. 
almond  or  dairy  cream  (and  if  squash  is  very  dry,  a  little  milk). 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


Il8  THE   LAUREL 

^-i  teaspn.  salt,    i   teaspn.   sugar  and   i   beaten  egg.     Bake  in 

pudding  dish  in  moderate  oven  about  20  m.     May  sprinkle  with 

breadcrumbs.     A  little  minced  onion  may  be  used  in  the  pudding. 

it    Carrot  Pudding 

I  cup  mashed  carrot  i  tablespn.  chopped  onion 

/4  cup  corn  a  eggs 

H  cup  stewed  tomato  from  which     salt 

the  juice  has  been  drained  chopped  parsley 

Mix  all  ingredients,  beating  eggs  slightly,  turn  into  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  parsley.  Bake  until  firm  in  the 
center, 

SosUoped  Asparagus 

Make  a  thin  cream  sauce  of  cream  and  the  water  in  which 
the  asparagus  was  cooked,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  serving  dish  with 
sauce,  put  in  a  layer  of  asparagus  cooked  in  short  pieces  (the  tips 
may  have  been  used  for  croustades)  and  sprinkle  with  cracker 
crumbs;  continue  layers,  cover  top  with  thin  or  split  crackers, 
pour  sauce  over,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  bake  ij-zom. 
Sister  Ford's  SoaJloped  Cabbage— Delicious 

Chop  a  nice  head  of  cabbage  or  shave  it  fine  and  put  it  into  a 
baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  or  zwieback  crumbs. 
Turn  over  it  enough  rich  milk,  to  which  a  little  salt  has  been 
added,  to  half  cover  it.  Let  it  boil  up  once  and  then  set  where 
it  will  stew  slowly  until  the  cabbage  is  tender,  but  no  longer. 
Scalloped  Egg  Plant 

Cut  eg^  plant  into  slices  l4-H  in.  thick.  Peel  and  put  into  a 
lai^e  quantity  of  cold  water  over  the  fire  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  boil  $  m.  and  drain.  Repeat  the  process,  add  salt  to  the 
third  water,  boil  to  m.  and  drain.  Put  into  scallop  dish  in 
layers  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs — just  a  few,  cover  with 
rich  milk  or  thin  cream  and  bake  covered  until  the  shces  are 
tender,  %  hr.  or  longer.  Uncover,  brown  and  Serve.  The  e^ 
plant  may  be  cut  into  lai^e  cubes. 


Armenian  Scollop  of  Egg  Plant 
I  large  egg  plant  chopped  parsley 

i>^-2  cups  strained  or  unstrained  tomato     salt 
yi  cup  sliced  or  chopped  onion  2tablespns.  butter  or  oil 

3  or  4  cloves  of  garlic,  fine  a  few  bread  crumbs 

Prepare  e^  plant  as  in  preceding  recipe;  mix  onion,  garlic, 
salt  and  a  part  of  the  crumbs.  Sprinkle  mixture  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  and  between  and  on  top  of  layers  of  egg  plant. 
Turn  the  tomato  over  all,  cover  with  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  pars- 
ley, dot  with  butter  or  pour  oil  over.  Cover  and  bake  ij^-z 
hours.     Brown  on  top  grate  of  oven. 

SoaJloped  Onions 

Stew  sliced  onions  until  tender,  drain  and  put  in  baking  dish 
with  layers  of  bread  crumbs  ;  add  salt  and  a  little  melted  butter 
to  each  layer,  nearly  cover  with  milk,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and 
bake  until  well  browned.  The  butter  may  be  omitted  and  a 
little  cream  added  to  the  milk. 

Scalloped  Baw  Potatoes 

Slice  potatoes  very  thin,  put  in  layers  into  scallop  i^ish, 
sprinkling  each  layer  lightly  with  flour  or  cracker  crumbs  and 
salt  until  dish  is  %  full.  Nearly  cover  with  milk,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  bake  i  hour  or  until  potatoes  are  tender.  Cover  at 
first  and  watch  that  milk  does  not  boil  over.  A  very  little 
chopped  onion  in  the  potatoes  improves  them.  When  flour  is 
used  it  is  better  to  mix  the  milk  and  6our  and  pour  over  the 
potatoes. 

A  quicker  way  is  to  cook  the  sliced  potatoes  in  boiling  salted 
water  for  lo  m, ,  before  putting  them  into  the  scallop  dish. 
Potatoes  Scolloped — raw  nut  butter  and  onions 

Cooked  sliced  potatoes  for  lo  m.  in  boiling,  salted  water, 
drain,  put  into  baking  dish  in  layers  with  fine  chopped  onion, 
and  pour  a  liberal  amount  of  nut  milk  (made  in  the  proportion 
of  4  tablespns.  of  raw  nut  butter,  with  salt,  to  each  qt.  of  water) 
over  them.     When  the  potatoes  are  tender  and  the  milk  just 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


I20  THE   LAUREL 

creamy,  sprinkle  the  top  with  browned  flour  No.  i.  pour  a  little 
oil  over,  and  brown  on  top  grate  of  oven.     Serve  at  once. 
Soalloped  Cooked  PotBtoes 

Potatoes  cooked  in  their  jackets  until  nearly  done  are  best  for 
this  purpose  and  it  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  small  and  irregular 
shaped  ones.  Slice  or  dice  the  potatoes,  put  into  dish  in 
layers  with  thin  cream  sauce,  chopped  parsley  and  onion,  have 
sauce  on  top,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  bake  20  m.  Without  the 
onion  they  are  called  Cottle  Potatoes. 

Soalloped  Sweet  Potatoes 

Prepare  and  cook  the  same  as  scalloped  Irish  potatoes,  with- 
out onion. 

Soalloped  Squash 

A  squash  that  is  not  as  good  cooked  in  other  ways  may  be  used 
for  this  dish.  Pare  and  cut  into  smalt  pieces,  boil  or  steam 
until  just  tender,  not  soft.  Arrange  in  layers  in  oiled  baking 
dish  with  salt,  a  little  sugar  and  if  used,  a  little  butter.  Pour 
over  a  very  little  milk  or  (if  no  butter  is  used)  thin  cream,  not 
more  than  }4-%  of  a  cup  for  a  good  sized  dish.  Bake  covered 
at  first,  then  brown.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  before 
serving.  A  trifle  of  ground  coriander  or  anise  seed  may  be  used, 
but  the  natural  flavor  of  the  squash  is  best. 
Soalloped  Oyster  Plant 

I  qt.  cooked  sliced  oyster  plant  i/i  cup  milk 

(i  J4qt.,  2  bunches, beforecooking)  2  tablespns.  melted 

?^  cup  cracker  crumbs  i  egg  [butter 

1%  cup  oyster  liquor  salt 

Mix  oyster  plant  liquor,  milk,  butter  and  salt.  Put  oyster 
plant  into  a  baking  dish  with  a  sprinkling  of  cracker  crumbs  be- 
tween layers,  pour  part  of  mixed  liquid  over.  Sprinkle  crumbs 
on  top  and  turn  the  last  cup  of  liquid  over,  after  beating  the 
egg  with  it.  Bake  covered  until  just  bubbling,  then  remove 
cover  and  brown  by  setting  on  top  grate  of  oven. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


Soallop  of  Oyster  Plant 
Cook  iji  qt.  sliced  oyster  plant  in  iK  qt,  water,  adding  salt 
before  draining.  To  the  water  drained  off  add  j4-i  cup  heavy 
cream.  Boil  and  thicken  with  flour  to  the  consistency  of  thin 
cream;  add  salt  and  pour  over  oyster  plant  which  has  been  ar- 
ranged in  baking  dish  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of  stale  bread 
crumbs  between  the  layers  and  on  top.  Be  careful  not  to  use 
too  many  crumbs.  Bake  a  half  hour  or  until  well  heated  through 
and  nicely  browned.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  before  or 
after  baking. 

Oyster  Plant  Scallop 

1  pt,  cooked  oyster  plant  pulp         i  cup  cream 

prepared  as  for  patties  (or  J^  cream  and  /4  oyster 

2  level  tablespns.  butter  salt  [liquor 
2  level  tablespns.  flour                      2  eggs 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together;  add  cream  hot.  Boil,  remove 
from  fire,  add  beaten  eggs,  salt  and  oyster  pulp.  Put  into  patty 
cases,  other  individual  dishes  or  baking  dish,  buttered.  Sprin- 
kle with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  heat  to  bubbling  Snd 
brown,  in  oven. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Place  equal  quantities  of  salted  stewed  tomatoes  and  deli- 
cately browned  croutons  in  dice  as  for  soup,  in  layers  in  baking 
dish  with  a  little  melted  butter  poured  over  each  layer.  Cover 
with  the  croutons  and  sprinkle  with  melted  butter.  Bake,  cov- 
ered part  of  the  time,  15-20  m.  Crumbs  or  thin  slices  of  zwie- 
back, or  granella  may  be  substituted  for  dice. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes— onion  flavor 
Thin  layers  of  bread  or  zwieback,  or  of  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  with  thick  slices  (or  double  layers)  of  peeled  tomatoes, 
salt  and  onion  juice.  Cover  with  crumbs,  turn  a  little  melted 
butter  over,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  Bake,  covered  most 
of  the  time. 

.    U.q,t,zc,b,CjOOt^lC 


122  THE   LAUREL 

SosUoped  Celery  and  Tomato 
1  Qt.  finely-sliced  celery  ^-K  cup  chopped  onion 

i>3qt.  stewed  tomatowithalittle      3-3  teaspns.  salt 
of  the  juice  drained  off 

Put  half  the  celery,  onion,  tomato,  and  salt  into  a  baking  dish 
in  the  order  given,  and  repeat  with  the  remaining  half.  Cover 
with  small  dice  or  coarse  crumbs  of  bread.  Turn  a  little  cream 
or  melted  butter  over  the  top.  cover  and  bake  \%-\%  hr.  in 
moderate  oven.     The  onion  may  be  omitted. 

Tomatoes  Scalloped  witb  Bioe  and  Onion 

Put  layers  of  boiled  rice  and  tomato  with  thin  sliced  onion, 

salt  and  a  little  butter  or  oil  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs 

and  parsley.     Bake,  covered,  in  moderate  oven,  brown  on  top 

grate  just  before  serving. 

Creamed  Sweet  Potatoes 
Cover  sliced,    cooked  sweet    potatoes   in  serving   dish    with 
cream  or  thin  cream  sauce.      Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  parsley 
if  desired.     Heat  gently  in  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 
ii    Baked  Creamed  Tomatoes 
I  pt.  strained  stewed  tomatoes  K-K  cup  sweet  cream 

1%  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  salt 

Let  crumbs  stand  in  tomato  until  well  softened,  rub  through 
a  colander,  add  cream  and  salt.  Bake  in  serving  dish  until  deli- 
cately browned  on  top  and  well  heated  through.  Let  stand  in 
warm  place  10-20  m.  before  serving, 

Spinaoh  Souffld 

%  peck  spinach  (2  cups  cooked).  Cook;  drain  very  dry  and 
rub  through  a  fine  colander.  Add  I  teaspn.  oil  or  melted  butter, 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  moder- 
ately stiff.  Fill  well  oiled  mold  about  %  full.  Set  in  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  (covered  until  nearly  done)  in  moderate  or 
slow  oven  until  firm  in  the  center,  45-60  m.  Do  not  bake  too 
rapidly  or  too  long.     When  done,  set  the  mold  out  of  the  water, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


let  it  stand  a  moment  to  settle,  and  invert  carefully  on  to  a  plat- 
ter or  chop  tray.  Serve  at  once  with  quarters  or  sixths  of 
lemon  or  with  one  of  the  cream  sauces,  or  with  Sauce  Am^i- 
caine. 

Baked  tomatoes  are  very  suitable  for  a  garnish  or  accompan- 
iment. 

IndlTidnal  Daisy  Soiiffl6§  make  pretty  garnishes  for  timbales 
and  molds.  Small  custard  cups,  or  the  imported  tin  molds,  be- 
ing suitable  for  them.  Oil  molds  well  with  cold  oil  or  softened 
(not  melted)  butter  and  leave  in  a  cool  place. 

Prepare  daisies  by  cutting  a  small  round  piece  from  a  slice  of 
hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  and  six  diamond  shaped  pieces  from  the 
poached  white,  for  each,  and  arrange  like  daisies  in  the  bottom 
of  the  mold,  the  oil  holding  them  in  place. 

Press  the  spinach  mixture  into  the  molds,  taking  care  not  to 
displace  the  daisies,  and  bake  the  same  as  the  large  mold,  only 
a  shorter  time,  30-35  m.,  or  until  puffed  in  the  center  and  firm 
to  the  touch.  Invert  on  to  rounds  of  toast  and  place  as  de- 
sired. 

Huhed  Potato  Loaf 

Add  grated  onion  to  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potato;  put 
into  a  long,  well  buttered  tin;  brown  in  hot  oven,  turn  out  on 
to  a  platter  and  serve  cut  in  slices  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

,  Tlmbale  of  Carrot— nnuaually  desirable 

2  cups  mashed  carrot  i  pint  rich  milk 

I  teaspn.  salt  whites  3  eggs 

a  teaspns.  chopped  parsley 

Add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  to  other  ingredients  which 
have  been  mixed.  Bake  in  buttered  mold  in  pan  of  water,  until 
firm  in  center,  about  %  hour.  Let  stand  a  moment  after  re- 
moving from  oven,  unmold  on  to  platter  or  chop  tray,  surround 
with  spinach  leaves  or  garnish  with  other  green  and  serve  with 
sour  sauce. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


124  THE    LAUREL 

Com  and  Egg  Timbftle 
i}4  qt.  milk  4  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs 

3  cups  flour  4  beaten  raw  eggs 

1  pt.  corn,  drained  dry  2  teaspns.  chopped  onion 

2  teaspns.  salt  2  teaspns.  chopped  parsley 

Blend  flour  with  i  pt.  of  the  milk,  heat  remainder  of  milk  in 
oiled  frying  pan,  stir  in  flour,  remove  from  fire,  add  other  in- 
gredients, bake  in  well  oiled  mold.  Serve  with  sauce  i6,  23, 
28,  or  31. 

Timbales  of  Com — indlTidnal 
i}4  cup  corn  (cut  from  cob)  put  salt 

through  fine  chopper  i  }i  tablespn.  melted  butter 

2  eggs  I  pt.  hot  milk 

Set  molds  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover,  bake. 
Vegetable  Pie 

Prepare  vegetables  (half  or  whole  quantity)  as  for  Trumese  en 
Casserole,  of  Trumese  Dishes,  use  a  little  more  liquid,  thick- 
ened a  trifle.  Cover  and  bake  until  vegetables  are  nearly  or 
quite  tender,  i-l  %  hours.  Remove  from  fire,  cool  to  just  warm 
(if  universal  crust  is  to  be  used),  cover  with  crust,  let  rise,  and 
bake;  or,  the  crust  may  be  baked  or  steamed  in  a  pie  plate  sepa- 
rately and  laid  over  the  baked  filling.  If  steamed,  it  will  be 
dumplings. 

A  combination  of  equal  quantities  potatoes,  turnips,  parsnips, 
carrots  and  onions  covered  with  consomm^,  or  very  fresh  milk, 
and  baked,  may  be  used  for  a  pie.  Sometimes,  when  no  pota- 
toes are  used,  lay  sliced  tomatoes  on  top  of  the  vegetables. 

Chopped  parsley  is  suitable  for  all  combinations.  Garlic,  if 
liked,  is  nearly  always  an  improvement. 

Cooked  instead  of  uncooked  vegetables  may  be  used. 

Sliced  hard  boiled  e^s  give  variety  and  add  to  the  nutritive 
value  of  pies. 

When  liquid  is  not  thickened,  sprinkle  a  little  fine  tapioca 
between  layers  of  vegetables. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  125 

OTster  Plant  Pie 
l-i)i  ql.  sliced  oyster  plant  i3^  qt.  boiling  water 

(2  large  bunches )  i  teaspn.  salt 

Cook  oyster  plant  until  nearly  tender,  add  the  salt,  boil  up 
well  and  drain. 

Sau^e— 

4  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  H  cup  cream 

6-Sj4  tablespns.  flour  }^  teaspn,  salt 

I  qt.  and  H  cup  of  oyster  plant  broth  and  water 

Heat  oil,  add  flour,  then  liquid,  and  when  smooth  and  well 
cooked,  the  cream  and  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley  if 
convenient. 

Crust — Universal  crust  of  ?^-l  cup  of  liquid,  or  one  cup  of  rice 
as  for  rice  and  trumese  pie,  or  dish  lined  and  covered  or  covered 
only,  with  pastry  crust.  Pour  part  of  the  sauce  into  the  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  the  cooked  oyster  plant  in  and  pour  the  remainder 
of  the  sauce  over.  Cover  with  the  crust.  Let  rise  until  very 
light  (if  universal  crust).     Bake  }4~H  hour. 

May  make  small  individual  pies. 

Sauce  without  Cream — %  cup  of  raw  nut  butter  may  be  rubbed 
smooth  and  boiled  up  with  the  oyster  broth  and  the  cream 
omitted.  With  this,  l  teaspn.  of  celery  salt  may  be  used,  or  3 
level  tablespns,  chopped  onion  and  I  level  teaspn.  sage. 
Chopped  parsley  with  either.  7  or  8  tablespns.  of  cracker  dust 
may  be  used  for  thickening  the  sauce  instead  of  flour. 
Oyster  Plant  Paatry  Pie 

Cook  oyster  plant  in  small  quantity  of  water,  add  salt  when 
nearly  tender,  boil  up  well  and  drain;  thicken  liquor  slightly,  add 
a  little  butter  and  the  cooked  oyster  plant.  When  cool,  put 
into  custard  pie  pan  lined  with  pastry,  cover,  bake.  Serve  hot 
with  celery  stewed  in  tomato  if  desired. 

Hnahroom  and  Celery  Pie — Bice  or  pastry  omst 
1%  qt.  celery  in  inch  lengths  chopped  parsley 

i-i  %  pt.  mushrooms  in  quarters  or  eighths 


.b,Gooi^lc 


126  THE   l-AUREL 

Cook  and  drain  celery.  Cook  mushrooms  10-15  tn.  in  salted 
water  and  drain.  Arrange  cooked  celery  and  mushrooms  in 
baking  dish  with  parsley  sprinkled  between  layers.  Pour  over 
the  following  sauce,  cover  with  rice  (as  for  rice  and  trumese  pie) 
or  pastry  crust,  bake. 

Sauce — 5  tablespns.  melted  butter,  5/4-6  tablespns.  flour,  the 
liquid  drained  from  the  mushrooms  and  celery  with  water  to 
make  i  qt.,  salt.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  pour  boil- 
ing liquid  over,  boil  up  well,  add  salt. 

Carrot  Fie.  Exoellent 
I  qt.  cooked  sliced  carrots  chopped  parsley 

5  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  5J4  tablespns.  flour 

2  tablespns.  chopped  onion  i  qt.  boiling  water 

Simmer,  not  brown,  onion  in  oil,  add  flour  and  water,  pour 
into  baking  dish  with  carrots  and  parsley  and  cover  with  any 
desired  crust — universal,  pastry,  rice,  mashed  potato,  dressing, 
or  mashed  dried  green  peas.  With  the  last,  one  would  have  a 
hearty  meat  dish. 

Potato  Fie 

Use  potatoes  instead  of  carrots  and  more  onion  in  preceding 
recipe.  Celery  may  be  used  (without  simmering  in  oil)  instead 
of  the  onion.  }i-yi  cup  of  raw  nut  butter,  instead  of  the  oil, 
rubbed  smooth  with  water  and  boiled  with  it  would  give  a  meaty 
flavor  with  the  potatoes  and  onions.  A  mashed  lentil  crust, 
when  desired,  adds  to  the  nutritive  value  of  the  pie. 

Stuffed  Winter  SquaBli 

J^-?i  of  a  medium  sized,  nice  shaped  sliced  onion 

winter  squash  garlic  if  desired 

3  cups  dry  bread  crumbs  chopped  parsley 

3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter        3-iH  tablespns.  flour 

3  cups  rich  consomme 


.b,Coot^lc 


ENTREES  127 

Heat  oil,  add  flour,  then  cansomm^,  andsalt  if  necessary.  Saw 
squash  in  two  in  the  middle,  or  a  little  above  the  middle  as  re- 
quired. Scrape  out  the  seeds  and  stringy  pulp  and  rub  with  salt. 
Let  stand  while  preparing  other  ingredients;  drain  before  stuff- 
ing. Mix  crumbs  and  flavorings,  leaving  out  a  little  parsley; 
pour  part  or  all  of  the  sauce  over  the  crumb  mixture.  (The 
quantity  of  the  sauce  will  depend  on  the  quality  of  the  squash. 
If  it  is  a  dry  one  it  will  probably  take  it  all,  and  if  it  is  quite  a 
large  one,  more  of  all  the  stuffing  will  be  required).  Fill  the 
squash,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  or  corn  meal,  and  chopped  parsley. 
Set  into  covered  baker  or  cover  with  waxed  paper  and  bake 
■until  squash  is  tender  which  will  be  in  2-3  hrs.  according  to  the 
squash.  Give  it  plenty  of  time.  Serve  on  chop  tray  and  send 
plain  onion  sauce  to   be   served  with  it. 

Coarse  chopped  nuts  may  be  put  into  the  dressingand  the  top 
of  the  squash  garnished  after  baking  with  halves  of  nuts.  This 
makes  a  beautiful  as  well  as  palatable  dish. 

Baked  Sgoaah  wlUi  Celery  Stuffing 

Make  a  thick  sauce  of  rich  milk  and  browned  flour  No.  1. 
Add  to  it  chopped  onion,  minced  garlic  if  liked,  a  few  coarse 
bread  crumbs  and  a  large  quantity  of  fine  sliced  celery.  Fill  the 
squash  which  has  been  prepared  as  in  the  preceding  recipe, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  cover  with  slices  of  tomato  from  which 
the  seeds  have  been  removed,  or  with  pieces  of  canned  tomato. 
Finish  with  chopped  parsley  :  bake  covered  until  time  to  brown 
over  the  top. 

Nuts  may  be  used  with  this  also,  and  unbrowned  flour  in  the 
sauce  if  preferred. 

A  simple  dressing  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  milk  with  a 
little    cream   or   butter   and  chopped  onion  is  nice  in  squash. 

With  such  Slimmer  squashes  as  are  of  the  right  shape  to  bake, 
the  greater  part  of  the  inside  may  be  scraped  out,  chopped  and 
put  in  with  the  dressing. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


128    .  THE   LAUREL 

Claudia's  Stuffed  Sg^  Plant 
/^  large  egg  plant  fi-i  tablespn.  browned  flour 

>i  cup  boiled  rice  %  cup  fine  cut  celery 

4  tablespns.  tomato  3-5  truffles  cut  fine 

4  tablespns.  grated  onion  2  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter 

(or  3  of  chopped)  salt 

I  dozen  chopped  ripe  olives  may  be  used  instead  of  truffles,  or 
3  or  4  soaked  dried  mushrooms  chopped,  or  all  may  be  omitted. 

Boil  whole  egg  plant  in  unsalted  water  20  m.  Cut  in  halves 
lengthwise,  or  if  only  one  piece  is  to  be  baked  cut  a  little  one 
side  of  the  middle,  using  the  larger  piece  for  stuffing.  The 
quantity  of  stuping  given  is  for  one  piece  only.  Scrape  out  the 
pulp  with  a  spoon,  leaving  a  wall  J^-K  in.  thick.  Chop  pulp 
and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients,  using  only  half  the  oil  or 
butter.  Rub  a  little  salt  over  the  inside  of  the  egg  plant,  press 
the  stuffing  in  firmly,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley 
and  pour  oil  over.  Bake  in  quick  oven  about  j4  hour,  covered 
when  sufficiently  browned. 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Cut  slices  off  the  sides  of  nicely  baked  potatoes  (if  large  they 
may  be  cut  into  halves,  or  they  may  be  cut  in  two  in  the  middle 
crosswise,  or  a  piece  may  be  cut  off  from  one  end),  scrape  out 
the  inside,  leaving  a  thin  coating  of  the  potato  so  that  the  skin 
will  not  be  broken.  Prepare  the  same  as  mashed  potato  and 
beat  very  light,  refill  the  skins,  brush  with  cream  or  sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  set  in  shallow  tin  and  brown  on 
top  grate  in  oven.  To  serve,  arrange  on  a  napkin  on  a  platter, 
with  sprays  of  parsley. 

Uerlngued  Stuffed  Potatoes 

Add   I   or  more  yolks  of  eggs  to  the  mashed  potato,  fill  skins 
and  heat  as  in  preceding  recipe,  then  pile  the  salted,  stiffly-beaten 
whites  of  eggs  on  the  tops  and  brown  delicately. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Select  large  firm  tomatoes,  cut  out  the  stem  end,  remove  the 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  129 

inside  with  a  teaspoon  and  turn  upside  down  on  a  drainer  (or  the 
liquid  to  drain  out. 

Stuffed  tomatoes  may  be  served  as  a  garnish  (or  meat  dishes 
or  on  rounds  o(  toast  as  a  separate  course,  o(ten  the  second 
course.  When  suitable,  they  may  be  served  on  rounds  or 
squares  of  broiled  trumese.  Sometimes  they  are  set  into  a  rich 
cream  sauce  on  a  platter,  or  in  ramekins,  and  sprinkled  with 
chopped  truffles.  Chopped  nuts  and  parsley  may  be  substituted 
for  truffles.  When  desired,  a  half  nut  meat  may  be  laid  on  top 
of  each  tomato  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Fillings  for  Staffed  Tomatoes 

Buttered  crumbs,  the  tomato  pulp  and  salt:  to  this  may  be 
added  grated  onion  or  onion  and  sage.  Cracker  crumbs  instead 
of  bread  are  sometimes  used. 

Crumbs,  chopped  nuts  or  trumese  or  nutmese,  garlic,  onion 
and  salt.  Or,  ripe  olives  and  celery  salt  with  chopped  parsley 
in  place  of  onion  and  garlic. 

Boiled  rice,  onion,  browned  flour,  melted  butter,  tomato 
pulp.  Salt  tomatoes  well  inside  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  pars- 
ley after  stuffing. 

Soaked  dried  mushrooms  chopped,  butter,  crumbs,  tomato 
pulp,  onion,  salt. 

Fresh  mushrooms  chopped,  crumbs,  cream  or  butter,  salt. 

Macaroni  or  spaghetti,  tomato  pulp,  onion,  butter,  crumbs  on 
top. 

Left-overs  of  macaroni  may  be  chopped  slightly  for  filling, 
with  small  rings  as  top  finish. 

Always  fill  tomatoes  to  the  top  and  finish  with  crumbs  or 
something  suitable. 

Bake  10-30  m.  (according  to  the  filling,  and  the  ripeness  of 
the  tomatoes)  on  oiled  pans  without  water. 
Fruit  and  Nut  Tomatoes 

Mix  equal  parts  chopped  nuts,   currants   and    flne   cut  citron 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


130  THE    LAUREL 

with  two  parts  raisins  cut  fine  and  a  little  sugar.  Fill  hollowed 
and  drained  tomatoes.  Bake,  serve  plain  or  with  cream  or 
whipped  cream.  Raisins  and  cocoanut  with  sugar,  may  be  used, 
or  either  one  alone. 

Stntled  Oreen  Tomatoes 

Mixture  of  onion,  garlic,  salt,  sage,  a  trifle  of  thyme  and  the 
chopped  pulp  of  tomato  in  bottom  of  hollowed  out  tomatoes; 
then  each  tomato  partly  filled  with  dice  of  nutmese,  covered  with 
some  of  the  mixture,  and  the  top  finished  with  a  slice  of  ripe 
tomato  or  pieces  of  canned  tomato.  Bake  covered  i  }4  hour  or 
until  tomatoes  are  tender.  Serve  on  crisped  large  crackers  with 
Tomato  Cream  sauce  or  Chili  sauce  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley.  Use  large  tomatoes  turned  a  little  white. 
Peeled  Tomatoes  Baked 

Set  whole  peeled  tomatoes  in  pudding  dish,  sprinklegenerously 
with  salt,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake:  or,  omit  crumbs 
and  when  tender,  pour  over  them  a  thin  cream  sauce;  sprinkle 
with  parsley  and  leave  in  oven  1015  m. 

Bioli  Baked  Sliced  Tomatoes 

Cut  tomatoes  that  are  not  too  ripe  into  thick  shces  (halves  if 
thin),  sprinkle  with  salt,  chopped  onion  and  garlic  if  liked,  and 
pour  a  little  melted  butter  over.  Bake.  After  laying  slices  of 
tomato  on  to  rounds  of  toast,  add  butter  and  flour  to  liquid  in 
pan,  then  a  little  cream;  boil  up  and  pour  around  tomatoes 
on  toast. 

Oil  and  nut  milk  or  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  butter  and 
dairy  cream. 

Broiled  or  Baked  Tomatoes 

Dip  thick  slices  of  not  too  ripe  tomatoes  in  Mayonnaise  or 
Improved  Mayonnaise  dressing,  then  in  fine  sifted  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs.  Brown  in  wire  broiler  or  lay  in  agate  pan  and 
bake  in  hot  oven. 

U.q,t,zc„b,COOQlC 


ENTREES  131 

Tomato  Short  Caks 
Cover  layers  of  split  hot  short  cake  crust  of  universal  dough 
with  Cream  of  Tomato  sauce  and  serve.     Or,  prepare  unstrained 
tomatoes  the  same  as  for  sauce  and  serve  over  the  crust. 
Filau — stewed  rice 
I  cup  rice  3-4  cups  tomato 

3-5  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  3-5  cups  water 

I  onion  ij^-2j4  teaspns.  salt 

Simmer  sliced  onion  in  oil  (without  browning),  add  salt,  boil- 
ing water  and  rice.  Cook  until  rice  is  about  half  done,  then 
add  tomato  hot,  and  finish  cooking  slowly  without  stirring.  If 
convenient,  set  into  the  oven  after  the  tomato  is  added.  When 
the  lai^er  quantity  of  tomato  is  used,  the  smaller  quantity  only 
of  water  will  be  required. 

i}4  cup  sliced  celery  may  be  substituted  for  the  onion. 

Spanish  rice  calls  for  2-3  cloves  of  garlic  in  addition  to  Pilau 
with  six  cups  of  water  and  one  only  of  tomato. 

Maoftroni  with  Onion  or  Celery,  and  Tomato 

Substitute  \%-i%  cup  of  macaroni  for  the  rice  in  pilau. 
Hominy  also  may  be  used  in  place  of  rice. 

Parsnip  and  Potato  Stew 

Cut  potatoes  in  quarters  lengthwise,  then  across  the  center, 
and  cut  parsnips  into  about  the  same  size;  cook  separately  or 
together  and  drain;  add  both  to  cream  sauce,  heat,  and  serve  on 
toast,  or  put  small  slices  of  toast  (zwieback)  in  the  stew.  This 
is  a  delightful  dish  though  simple. 

Suoootaali — Com  and  Beans 

In  the  summer  cook  shelled  Lima  or  other  beans  until  tender. 
Add  corn  which  has  been  cut  from  the  cob,  boil  ro-15  m.,  pour 
in  a  little  heavy  cream,  heat  but  do  not  boil;  add  more  salt 
if  necessary.  Succotash  is  one  of  the  dishes  which  calls  for 
cream,  just  a  few  spoonfuls  is  all  that  is  required  for  a  large 
quantity  of  succotash,  but  that  little  perfects  it. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


132  THE   LAUREL 

Corn  and  beans  may  be  cooked  separately,  combined  and 
seasoned.  AU  sorts  of  corn  and  all  sorts  of  beans  may  be  com- 
bined with  great  satisfaction,  but  the  richest  and  most  delight- 
ful of  all  is  nice  dried  corn  {the  yellow  sweet  corn  is  best)  and 
dry  common  white  beans.  Raw  nut  butter  cooked  to  a  cream 
is  good  with  the  dry  bean  succotash. 

Dried  and  Hailed  Com 

A  very  near  relative  (which  some  prefer)  to  succotash  is  the 
combination  of  dried  and  hulled  corn;  2  parts  dried  and   1   part 
hulled  corn,  finished  with  cream  the  same  as  succotash. 
Vegetable  Hashes 

My  first  experience  with  a  vegetable  hash  was  at  a  hotel  in 
one  of  the  new  towns  in  North  Dakota  where  the  landlady  her- 
self did  the  cooking.  The  hash  was  made  from  the  different 
vegetables  left  from  a  boiled  dinner  chopped  and  heated,  and 
was  one  of  the  happy  gastronomic  surprises. 

Just  such  a  surprise  is  in  store  for  the  vegetarian  who  utilizes 
the  remains  of  the  trumese  boiled  dinner. 

One  rule  with  few  exceptions  to  be  followed  in  hashes,  is  not 
to  chop  the  ingredients  too  fine;  they  should  be  distinguishable 
one  from  another. 

Always  finish  hashes  in  the  oven  when  possible,  either  in  frying 
pan  or  baking  dish. 

Cold  baked  potatoes  or  those  boiled  in  jackets  are  preferable 
for  hash,  but  steamed  or  plain  boiled  ones  will  do  if  not  too  soft. 
Rice  may  be  substituted  for  potato.  Do  not  be  skeptical  in 
regard  to  these  dishes;  try  them. 

Aoushnet  Haab 

Heat  chopped  onion  in  oil  or  butter,  add  2  parts  chopped 
potatoes  and  J^-i  part  coarse  zwieback  crumbs  or  granella,  with 
salt.  Pour  a  little  nut  milk  or  dairy  cream,  and  water  over. 
Cover  and  heat  well,  then  brown  in  oven  uncovered.  A  little 
sage  may  be  used  sometimes,  or  both  onion  and  sage  may  be 
omitted. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


ENTREES  133 

Cabbage  and  Potato  Hash 

I  or  2  parts  cold  boiled  or  steamed  cabbage  and  2  parts 
potato,  with  cream,  or  butter  and  water  makes  a  very  meaty 
flavored  combination.  Do  not  brown  this  hash.  Heat  slowly, 
covered. 

Use  parsnips  or  carrots  in  place  of  cabbage  for  other  varieties. 
Cream  is  used  to  advantage  in   these  dishes.     The  recipes  given 
are  merely  suggestive  of  the  many  combinations  possible. 
Hash  with  Poached  Egg 

Nicely  poached  e^s,  one  for  each  serving,  may  be  laid  on  to 
any  of  the  hashes  spread  on  a  platter. 


Equal  quantities  mashed  or  whole  stewed  lentils  and  rice  or 
chopped  potato,  with  s^e  and  onion,  cream,  or  butter  and 
water,  salt. 

Toasts 

We  learn  from  Dr.  Vaughn  of  the  Michigan  University,  and 
other  eminent  authorities,  that  yeast  bread  browned  on  the  two 
cut  surfaces  only,  is  as  unwholesome  as  when  fresh  baked,  the 
slice  being  soggy  and  indigestible  on  the  inside.  So,  for  all 
dishes  where  the  ordinary  toast  is  usually  used,  we  recommend 
the  following: 

Zwieback 

Cut  slices  of  light  yeast  bread  into  any  desired  shape  or  size. 
(Square  slices  cut  diagonally  across  are  convenient  and  attract- 
ive). Lay  in  a  flat  pan  or  wire  dish  drainer  and  put  into  a 
warm  oven.  Dry  well,  then  increase  the  heat  of  the  oven 
gradually  and  bake  to  a  cream  color  all  through.  This  process 
partially  digests  the  starch  and  renders  the  bread  crisp,  tender, 
and  nutty  in  flavor.  Keep  zwieback  in  a  paper  sack  hanging 
near  the  fire  and  it  will  not  loose  its  crispness.  Eaten  dry  with 
porridge  and  other  soft  foods  it  furnishes  material  for  mastication. 
It  is  also  a  suitable  and  delightful  accompaniment  to  fruits  and 
nuts,  and  may  be  used  when  toast  points  are  called  for  as  a 
garnish.     A  recipe  for  special   zwieback   bread   will   be   found 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


134  THE   LAUREL 

among   the   yeast   recipes.     Salt  rising  bread  makes  especially 
tender  zwieback. 

When  moist  toast  is  desired,  dip  the  crust  part  of  the  slice 
into  the  liquid  first,  then  drop  the  whole  sHce  in,  taking  it  out 
quickly  with  a  skimmer  so  that  it  will  not  be  miishy,  and  lay  it 
in  a  covered  dish  to  steam  for  a  few  minutes. 

Always  salt  the  water  for  dipping. 

When  cream  or  milk  are  the  liquids  for  dipping,  do  not  have 
them  quite  boiling  as  boiling  milk  toughens  the  toast.  Do  not 
moisten  toast  when  the  dressing  is  thin  enough  to  soften  it. 

Prepared  toast  and  dressing  may  be  sent  to  the  table  separate 
and  served  on  individual  dishes. 

With  many,  acid  or  sub-acid  fruit  dressings  served  over 
moistened  toast  cause  acidity  in  the  stomach. 

Never  use  milk  for  moistening  toast  for  fruit  dressings,  always 
water  or  cream. 

When  delicate  fruits  are  to  be  used,  strain  off  the  juice,  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point  and  thicken  it  a  very  little  with  cornstarch. 
When  perfectly  boiling  add  the  fruit,  heat  carefully  and  dip 
over  toast. 

Many  little  left-overs  of  foods  may  be  made  into  dainty  and 
satisfying  dishes  by  being  served  on  toast. 
Blueberry  Toaat 

The  blueberry  is  one  of  the  most  suitable  fruits  for   toasts. 

The  slightly  sweetened  stewed  fruit  may  be  thickened  without 

straining,  as  the  berries  do  not  break  easily.     Serve  with  Brazil 

nuts  or  dried  blanched  almonds,  or  with  chopped  or  ground  nuts. 

Prune  Toast 

Use   sweet    California   prunes   stewed   without   sugar,   whole 
stoned   with   juice,    or   in    marmalade.     Serve   with    halves  of 
English  walnuts  on  or  around  slices  when  required. 
ir  Sister  Betty  Saxby's  Toast 

Moisten  white   or  graham  zwieback  according  to  directions 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ENTREES  135 

and  put  in  layers  in  a  tureen  with  the  following  dressing.   Cover 
and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  10-15  ^-  before  serving. 

Dressing — To  a  pint  of  milk  take  about  i  J^  tablespn.  graham 
(not  white)  flour,  or  for  skimmed  milk,    i  J^  tablespn.  flour,  add 
salt  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  15  m.  to  >^  hour. 
Old-Fasbioned  Hilk  Toaat 
Lay  slices  of  zwieback  in  a  deep  dish  with  salt  and  bits  of 
butter.    (Butter  is  not  a  necessity  if  the  milk  is  rich).     Pour  hot 
milk  over  and  send  to  the  table  at  once, 
dream  Toast 
Use  hot  thin  cream  without  butter  or  salt  in  above  recipe. 
Creamed  Toast 
1-2  tablespns.  butter  i  pt.  milk 

1%  tablespn.  flour  salt 

Heat  butter,  stir  in  flour,  add  milk  hot,  and  when  smooth  a 
trifle  of  salt.  Dip  slices  of  zwieback  in  sauce,  lay  in  deep  dish 
and  pour  remaining  sauce  over.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few 
minutes  before  serving. 

Cream  of  Com  Toast 
Thicken  cream  of  corn  soup  a  little  more  if  necessary,  or, 
add  corn  to  thin  cream  sauce,  and  serve  on  toast.  Left-overs  of 
all  sorts  of  cream  soups  may  be  utilized  for  toast:  celery,  aspar- 
agus, string  bean,  oyster  plant  and  spinach,  also  succotash  and 
other  stewed  or  creamed  vegetables. 

Iientil  and  Otber  Legume  Toasts 
Use   any  lentil  gravy  or  thickened  lentil  soup,  cream  of  peas 
or  peas  and  tomato  soup  thickened,   red  kidney  beans  puree  or 
thickened  soup,  on  moistened  slices  of  zwieback. 
Toast  Boyal 
I  cup  drawn  butter  sauce  i  cup  minced  trumese  or  nutmese 

3  eggs  or  ]4  cup  chopped  nuts 

Add  meat  to  hot  sauce  and  pour  all  over  beaten  salted  eggs: 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


136  THE    LAUREL 

cook   as  scrambled   ^gs.      Serve   immediately   on    moistened 
slices  of  zwieback,  with  baked  tomatoes  when  convenient. 

The  following  toasts  are  of  a  different  nature  (though  slices 
of  zwieback  may  be  used  Instead  of  bread),  but  they  are  good 
emei^ency  dishes. 

Frenoh  Toast 

Add  %  cup  of  milk  with  salt  to  2  or  3  beaten  e^s.  Dip 
slices  of  stale  bread  or  moistened  zwieback  in  the  mixture  and 
brown  delicately  on  both  sides  on  moderately  hot  buttered  grid- 
dle or  in  quick  oven,  or  in  frying  pan  covered.  Serve  plain  or 
with  any  suitable  sauce. 

Drain  slices  after  dipping  in  egg  mixture;  crumb,  bake,  and 
serve  with  honey,  maple  syrup  or  jelly  for  Breaded  French 
Toast. 

German  Toast 

Add  grated  or  fine  chopped  onion  to  egg  mixture  and  finish 
the  same  as  French  toast. 

Spanish  Cakes 

Batter — 2  eggs,  2  tablespns.  flour,  l  teaspn.  of  oil,  milk  for 
smooth  thin  batter.     Nut  milk  may  be  used  and  oil  omitted. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  into  any  desired  shape  (round  with 
biscuit  cutter),  spread  each  one  of  half  the  pieces  with  jelly,  jam 
or  marmalade  and  press  another  on  to  it;  dip  in  the  batter,  lay 
on  oiled  baking  pan,  stand  1 5  m.  or  longer  in  a  cold  place.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven,  serve  with  a  bit  of  the  preserve  on  top  and 
half  of  a  nut  pressed  into  each,  or,  dusted  with  powdered  sugar. 
Mamie's  Surprise  Bisouit 

Inclose  small  cakes  of  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potato  in  pastry 
crust;  bake,  serve  with  milk  gravy,  drawn  butter  or  cream  sauce, 
or  with  celery  only.  This  is  the  original  recipe  which  leads  to 
the  following  variations: 

Mix  finely-sliced  celery  with  the  potato. 


ovGoo<^lc 


ENTREES  137 

Use  the  mixture  of  black  walnut  and  potato  stuffing,  or  mashed 
lentils  or  mashed  peas  for  filling. 

Serve  peas  biscuit  with  tomato  or  tomato  cream  sauce. 

Serve  lentil  biscuit  with  cream,  cream  of  tomato  or  mush- 
room sauce. 

Lentil  biscuit  with  fresh  mushroom  or  Boundary  Castle  sauce, 
with  or  without  celery,  might  constitute  one  course  at  a  dinner. 

Make  a  filling  of  minced  trumese,  salt,  oil,  chopped  parsley, 
onion  and  mushrooms  into  small  cakes  or  balls,  inclose  them  in 
universal  crust,  and  when  light,  steam  25-30  m.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter,  flavored  with  onion  and  parsley,  or  as  garnish  for 
a  meat  dish.     Make  balls  quite  small  for  garnish. 

Toriubire  Pudding 
yi  cup  flour  1/4  cup  milk 

salt  2  eggs 

I  teaspn.  oil 

Beat  e|^s,  add  milk  and  pour  gradually  into  flour  mixed  with 
salt;  add  oil,  beat  well,  turn  into  well  oiled,  or  oiled  and 
crumbed  gem  pans;  bake  in  moderate  (slow  at  first)  oven. 

Serve  as  garnish  or  accompaniment  to  ragout,  or  if  baked  in 
flat  cakes,  with  slices  of  broiled  or  4  la  mode  meats  laid  on  them, 
and  gravy  poured  around.  The  pudding  may  be  baked  in  a  flat 
pan  and  cut  into  any  desired  shape  for  serving.  Whites  and  yolks 
of  eggs  may  be  beaten  separately.  A  large  onion  chopped  may 
be  used  in  the  pudding. 

Bioe  Border 

Pack  hot  boiled  rice  into  well  oiled  border  mold  and  let  stand 
in  a  warm  place  (over  kettle  of  hot  water)  for  10  m.  Turn  on 
to  serving  dish  carefully. 

Or,  parboil  i  cup  of  rice  in  salted  water  5  m. ;  drain  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  with  2)^-3  cups  of  milk  and  salt,  until  the 
rice  is  tender  and  the  milk  absorbed,  then  pack  into  the  mold. 

I  tablespn.  of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  may  be  added  to 
the  rice  about  2  m.  before  it  is  taken  from  the  double  boiler. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


138  THE    LAUREL 

Oyster  Fl&nt  and  Potato  Omelet— without  eggs 
With  nicely  seasoned,  not  too  moist,  mashed  potato,  mix 
slices  of  cooked  oyster  plant  which  have  been  simmered  in  cream 
or  butter.  Spread  in  well  oiled  frying  or  omelet  pan.  When 
delicately  browned  on  the  bottom,  fold,  omelet  fashion,  turn  on 
to  a  hot  platter,  garnish.  Serve  plain  or  with  cream  sauce  or 
with  thin  drawn  butter.  Or,  grind  oyster  plant,  cook  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  add  cream  or  butter  and  mix  with  plain  potato. 
Finely-sliced  raw  celery  or  chopped  raw  onion  and  parsley  may 
be  used  in  the  potato  sometimes. 

Baked  Potatoes  and  Milk 

Wash   potatoes  well,   scrubbing  with   vegetable  brush.     Cut 

out  any  imperfect   spots.     Bake   until   just    done.     Break   up, 

skins  and  all,  into  nice  rich  milk  and  eat  like  bread  and  milk  for 

supper,     A  favorite  dish  of  some  of  the  early  settlers  in  Michigan. 

Bread  and  Milk  with  Sweet  Fruits 
Add  nice  ripe  blueberries  to  bread  and  milk  for  supper,  also 
ripe  black  raspberries  or  baked  sweet  apples.     They  are  all  de- 
licious. 

it  Apples  in  OU 

Simmer  finely-sliced  onion  in  oil  5-10  m.  without  browning; 
add  salt  and  a  little  water,  then  apples  which  have  been  washed, 
quartered,  cored  and  sliced  without  paring.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt.  Cover  and  cook  until  apples  are  just  tender,  not 
broken.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  supper,  or  with  a  meat  dish  in- 
stead of  a  vegetable,  for  luncheon  or  dinner. 

The  onion  may  be  omitted.  Use  a  little  sugar  when  apples 
are  very  sour. 

Onion  Apples 

Simmer  sliced  onions  in  oil,  with  salt,  in  baking  pan.  Place  ap- 
ples, pared  and  cored,  on  top  of  the  onions;  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  put  J^  teaspn.  in  each  cavity.  Cover,  bake;  uncover  and 
brown.     Serve  for  luncheon,  or  as  garnish  for  meat  dish. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE  MEATS 


„^^  "And  God  said.  Behold  I  have  given  you  every  herb  bearing 
— '  Seed,  which  is  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in 
the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed;  to  you  it  shall  be 
ioT  tneat."      Gen.  1:29. 
^      "The  food  which  God  gave  Adam  in  his  sinless  state  is  the 
best  for  man's  use  as  he  seeks  to  regain  that  sinless  state. 
^.-^■^  "The  intelligence  displayedby  many  dumb  animals  approaches 
so  closely  to  human  intelligence  that  it  is  a  mystery. 
^^.-i-'The  animals  see  and  hear  and  love  and  fear  and  suffer. 

V^hey  manifest  sympathy  and  tenderness  toward  their  com- 
..^-"^nions  in  suffering. 

"They  form  attachments  for  man  which  are  not  broken  with- 
^■"  out  great  suffering  to  them. 

"Think  of  the  cruelty  to  animals  that  meat  eating  involves 
and  its  effect  on  those  who  inflict  and  those  who  behold  it. 
How  it  destroys  the  tenderness  with  which  we  should  regard 
these  creatures  of  God  !  " 

The  high  price  of  flesh  foods,  the  knowledge  of  the  waste  mat- 
ter in  the  blood  of  even  healthy  animals  which  remains  in  their 
flesh  after  death,  and  the  well  authenticated  reports  of  the  in- 
creasing prevalence  of  most  loathsome  diseases  among  them, 
causes  a  growing  desire  among  thinking  people  to  take  their  food 
at  first  hand,  before  it  has  become  a  part  of  the  body  of  some 
lower  animal. 

So,  the  great  food  question  of  the  day  is — "What  shall  ivc 
use  in  the  place  of  meat  f" 

Nuts,  legumes  (peas,  beans,  lentils  and  peanuts)  and  eggs  con- 
tain as  do  flesh  meats,  an  excess  of  the  proteid  or  muscle-build- 

(139) 


.b,CjOOi;le 


I40  THE    LAUREL 

ing  elements  (nuts  and  legumes  a  much  larger  proportion  than 
flesh),  so  we  may  combine  these  with  fruits,  vegetables  and  some 
of  the  cereals  (rice,  for  instance)  and  have  a  perfect  proportion 
of  food  elements. 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind,  however,  that  proieid  foods  must 
■be  used  sparingly,  since  an  excess  of  these  foods  causes  some  of 
the  most  serious  diseases. 

The  du/k  of  our  foods  should  be  made  up  of  fruits  and  vegeta- 
bles and  some  of  the  less  hearty  cereals  and  breads. 

NUTS 

As  nuts  occupy  the  highest  round  of  the  true  meat  ladder,  we 
give  a  variety  of  recipes  for  their  use,  following  with  legumes 
and  eggs  in  their  order. 

With  nuts,  as  with  other  foods,  the  simplest  way  to  use  them 
is  the  best.  There  are  greater  objections  to  foods  than  that 
they  are  difficult  of  digestion,  and  in  the  caseof  nuts,  that  ob- 
jection is  overcome  by  thorough  mastication;  in  fact,  they  are 
an  aid  to  the  cultivation  of  that  important  function  in  eating. 

For  those  who  are  not  able  to  chew  their  food,  nuts  may  be 
ground  into  butter. 

Another  aid  to  the  digestion  of  nuts  is  the  use  with  them  of 
an  abundance  of  acid  fruits.  Fruits  and  nuts  seem  to  be  each 
the  complement  of  the  other,  the  nuts  as  well,  preventing  the 
unpleasant  effects  felt  by  some  in  the  free  use  of  fruits. 

"No  investigations  have  been  found  on  record  which  demon- 
strate any  actual  improvement  in  the  digestibility  of  nuts  due 
to  salt." — M.  E.  Jaffa,  M.  S.,  Professor  of  Nutrition,  Univer- 
sity of  California. 

Be  sure  that  nuts  are  fresh.  Rancid  nuts  are  no  better  than 
rancid  butter.  Shelled  nuts  do  not  keep  as  well  as  those  in 
the  shelU 

'  Almonds  stand  at  the  head  of  the  nut  family.  It  is  better  to 
buy  them  in  the  shell  as  shelled  almonds  are  apt  to  have  bitter 


TRUE   MEATS — NUTS  I4I 

ones  among  them.  Almonds  should  not  be  partaken  of  largely 
with  the  brown  covering  on,  but  are  better  to  be  blanched. 

To  Blanch  Almonds — Throw  them  into  perfectly  boiling  water, 
let  them  come  to  the  boiling  point  again,  drain,  pour  cold  water 
over  them  and  slip  the  skins  off  with  the  thumb  and  finger. 
Drop  the  meats  on  to  a  dry  towel,  and  when  they  are  all  done, 
roll  them  in  the  towel  for  a  moment,  then  spread  them  on  plates 
or  trays  to  dry.  They  must  be  dried  slowly  as  they  color  easily, 
and  the  sweet  almond  flavor  is  gone  when  a  delicate  color  only, 
is  developed.     For  butter  they  must  be  very  dry,   really  brittle. 

BrasUnuta — castanas — cream  nuts,  do  not  require  blanching, 
as  their  covering  does  not  seem  to  be  objectionable.  They  are 
rich  in  oil  and  are  most  valuable  nuts.  Slice  and  dry  them  for 
grinding. 

Filberts — hazelnuts — cobnuts — Barcelonas,  also  may  be  eaten 
without  blanching,  though  they  may  be  heated  in  the  oven 
(without  browning)  or  put  into  boiHng  water  and  much  of  the 
brown  covering  removed.  They  are  at  their  best  unground,  as 
as  they  do  not  give  an  especially  agreeable  flavor  to  cooked 
foods.     They  may  be  made  into  butter. 

Brazil  nuts  and  filberts  often  agree  with  those  who  cannot  use 
English  walnuts  and  peanuts. 

Eagluh  Walnuts — The  covering  of  the  English  walnut  is  ir- 
ritating and  would  better  be  removed  when  practicable.  This  is 
done  by  the  hot  water  method,  using  a  knife  instead  of  the 
thumb  and  finger.  The  unblanched  nuts  may  however,  be 
used  in  moderation  by  nearly  every  one. 

Butternuts  and  black  walnuts  blanch  more  easily  than  the 
English  walnut. 

When  whole  halves  of  such  nuts  as  hickory  nuts,  pecans  or 
English  walnuts  are  required,  throw  the  nuts  into  boiling  water 
for  two  or  three  minutes,  or  steam  them  for  three  or  four  min- 
utes, or  wrap  them  in  woolen  cloths  wrung  out  of  boiling  water. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


142  THE   LAfREL 

Crack,  and  remove  meats  at  once.    Do  not  leave  nuts  in  water 
long  enough  to  soak  the  meats. 

Finenuts  come  all  ready  blanched.  When  they  require  wash- 
ing, pour  boilingwater  over  them  first,  then  cold  water.  Drain, 
dry  in  towels,  then  on  plates  in  warm  oven. 

Peanuts — ground  nuts,  because  of  their  large  proportion  of 
oil,  and  similarity  in  other  respects  to  nuts  are  classed  with  them, 
though  they  are  truly  legumes. 

The  Spanish  peanut  contains  more  oil  than  the  Virginia,  but 
the  flavor  of  the  Virginia  is  finer  and  its  large  size  makes  it  eas- 
ier to  prepare.     The  "Jumbos"  are  the  cheapest. 

To  blanch  Spanish  peanuts  the  usual  way,  heat  for  some 
time,  without  browning,  in  a  slow  oven,  stirring  often.  When 
cool  rub  between  the  hands  or  in  a  bag  to  remove  the  skins. 
The  best  way  to  blow  the  hulls  away  after  they  are  removed  is 
to  turn  the  nuts  from  one  pan  to  another  in  the  wind, 

Spanish  peanuts  can  be  obtained  all  ready  blanched  from  the 
nut  food  factories. 

The  Virginias,  not  being  so  rich  in  oil  must  always  be  blanched 
the  same  as  almonds.  Be  sure  to  let  them  boil  well  before 
draining.  I  prefer  to  blanch  the  Spanish  ones  that  way,  too. 
the  results  are  so  much  more  satisfactory. 

When  peanuts  are  partly  dried,  break  them  apart  and  remove 
the  germ,  which  is  disagreeable  and  unwholesome:  then  finish 
drying. 

A  PEW  SUGGESTIVE  COMBINATIONS 
For  Using  Nuts  in  the  Simplest  Ways 

Brazil  nuts,  filberts  or  blanched  almonds  with:— 

Fresh  apples,  pears  or  peaches; 

Dried,  steamed  or  stewed  figs,  raisins,  dates,  prunes,  apple 
sauce,  baked  apples  or  baked  quinces: 

Celery,  lettuce,  cabbage,  tender  inside  leaves  of  spinach, 
grated  raw  carrot  or  turnip: 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS NUTS  I43 

Breakfast  cereals,  parched  or  popped  corn,  well  browned  gran- 
ella,  crackers,  gems,  zwieback,  Boston  brown  and  other  breads; 

Stewed  green  peas,  string  beans,  asparagus,  corn,  greens,  po- 
tatoes, squash,  cauliflower,  all  vegetables: 

Pies,  cakes  and  different  desserts  when  used. 

Hut  Butter 

A  good  nut  butter  mill  is  an  excellent  thing  to  have,  but  but- 
ter can  be  made  with  the  food  cutters  found  nowadays  in  almost 
every  home.  If  the  machine  has  a  nut  butter  attachment,  so 
much  the  better;  otherwise  the  nuts  will  need  to  be  ground  re- 
peatedly until  the  desired  fineness  is  reached. 

For  almond  butter,  blanch  and  dry  the  almonds  according  to 
directions,  adjust  the  nut  butter  cutter,  not  too  tight,  put  two 
or  three  nuts  into  the  mill  at  a  time,  and  grind.  When  the  al- 
monds are  thoroughly  dried  they  will  work  nicely  if  the  mill  is 
not  fed  too  fast, 

Brazil  nuts  and  filberts  need  to  be  very  dry  for  butter. 

Pine  nuts  are  usually  dry  enough  as  they  come  to  us. 

All  nuts  grind  better  when  first  dried. 

Raiu  peanut  butter  is  a  valuable  adjunct  to  cookery.  To  make, 
grind  blanched  dried  nuts;  pack  in  tins  or  jars  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place. 

For  steamed  butter,  put  raw  butter  without  water  into  a  double 
boiler  or  close  covered  tins  and  steam  3-5  hours.  Use  without 
further  cooking  in  recipes  calling  for  raw  nut  butter. 

Or,  grind  dried  boiled  nuts  the  same  as  raw  nuts.  For  imme- 
diate use,  boiled  nuts  may  be  ground  without  drying. 

When  roasted  nut  butter  is  used,  it  should  be  in  small  quanti- 
ties only,  for  flavoring  soups,  sauces  or  desserts. 

My  experience  is  that  the  best  way  to  roast  nuts  for  butter  is 
to  heat  them,  after  they  are  blanched  and  dried,  in  a  slow  oven, 
stirring  often,  until  of  a  cream  or  delicate  straw  color.  By  this 
method  they  are  more  evenly  colored  all  through.     Do  not  salt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


144  THE   LAUREL 

the  butter,  as  salt  spoils  it  for  use  with  sweet  dried  fruits  as  a 
confection,  and  many  prefer  it  without  salt  on  their  bread. 

The  objection  to  roasted  nuts  is  the  same  as  for  browning  any 
oil.  Raising  the  oil  of  the  nuts  to  a  temperature  high  enough 
to  brown  it,  decomposes  it  and  develops  a  poisonous  acid. 

Hardly  too  much  can  be  said  of  the  evil  effects  of  the  free  use 
of  roasted  nut  butter. 

"There  are  many  persons  who  find  that  roasted  peanuts  eaten 
in  any  quantity  are  indigestible  in  the  sense  of  bringing  on  pain 

and  distress Sometimes  this  distress  seems  to  be  due  to 

eating  peanuts  which  are  roasted  until  they  are  very  brown." 
— Mary  Hinman  Abel,  Farmers'  Bulletin,  No.  121,  U.  S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture. 

Nut  Keal 

Nut  meal  is  made  the  same  as  nut  butter  except  that  the  nuts 
are  ground  fewer  times  through  the  finest  cutter  of  the  mill,  or 
once  only  through  the  nut  butter  cutter  loosely  adjusted.  Either 
cooked  or  raw  peanuts  may  be  used,  but  a  cooked  peanut  meal  is 
very  desirable.  The  nuts  may  be  cooked,  dried  and  ground,  or 
cooked  without  water,  after  grinding,  the  same  as  steamed  nut 
butter. 

When  one  has  no  mill,  meal  of  many  kinds  of  nuts  may  be 
made  in  the  following  manner: 

Pound  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  small  strong  muslin  bag;  sift  them 
through  a  wire  strainer  and  return  the  coarse  pieces  to  the  bag 
again  with  the  next  portion.  Be  sure  that  not  the  smallest 
particle  of  shell  is  left  with  the  meats. 

A  dear  friend  of  mine  used  to  keep  jars  of  different  nut  meals 
prepared  in  this  way  on  hand  long  before  any  manufactured  ones 
were  on  the  market. 

One  writer  says: — "The  children  enjoy  cracking  the  nuts  and 
picking  out  the  meats,  and  it  is  ashort  task  to  prepare  a  cupful." 

Cooked  nuts  and  some  raw  ones  may  be  rubbed  through  the 
colander  for  meal. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — NUTS  I45 

Nut  meals  are  used  for  shortening  pie  crust,  crackers  and  sticks; 
and  all  except  peanut,  are  delightful  sprinkled  over  stewed  fruits 
or  breakfast  foods. 

Nut  Butter  for  Bread 

Nut  butters  (except  raw  peanut)  may  be  used  on  bread  as  they 
are  ground;  but  are  usually  stirred  up  with  water  to  an  agreeable 
butter-like  consistency,  and  salt  added. 

Strained  tomato  may  be  used  instead  of  water  for  a  change. 
This  is  especially  nice  for  sandwiches.  With  peanut  butter 
made  from  boiled  or  steamed  nutsithasa  flavor  similar  to  cheese. 

Nut  butter  is  more  attractive  for  the  table  when  pressed  through 
a  pastry  tube  in  roses  on  to  individual  dishes.  Use  a  cloth  (not 
rubber)  pastry  bag. 

While  pure  nut  butter,  if  kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  keep  almost 
indefinitely,  it  will  sour  as  quickly  as  milk  after  water  is  added 
to  it. 

Hut  Cream  and  Uilk 

Add  water  to  nut  butter  until  of  the  desired  consistency,  for 
cream;  then  still  more,  for  milk. 

Almond  milk  makes  a  delightful  drink  and  can  be  used  by 
many  who  cannot  take  dairy  milk.  It  may  be  heated  and  a  tri- 
fle of  salt  added. 

Coooanut  Hilk 

If  you  have  not  a  cocoanut  scraper,  grate  fresh  coooanut,  one 
with  milk  in  it,  or  grind  it  four  or  five  times  through  the  finest 
cutter  of  a  mill.  Pour  over  it  an  equal  bulk  or  twice  its  bulk,  of 
boiling  water,  according  to  the  richness  of  the  milk  desired  or 
the  quality  of  the  cocoanut.  Stir  and  mix  well  and  strain  throagh 
cheese  cloth  or  a  wire  strainer.  Add  a  second  quantity  of  hot 
water  and  strain  £^in,  wringir^  or  pressing  very  dry.  Throw 
the  fibre  away. 

Use  cocoanut  milk  or  cream  for  vegetable  or  pudding  saucesor 
in  almost  any  way  that  dairy  milk  and  cream  are  used.     Stir  be- 


t,zcob,CjOO»^lc 


146  THE   LAUREL 

fore  using.     To  break  the  nut  in  halves,  take  it  in  the  left  hand 
and  strike  it  with  a  hammer  in  a  straight  line  around  the  center. 
It  may  be  sawed  in  two  if  the  cups  are  desired  for  use. 
Coooanut  Butter 

Place  miik  on  ice  for  a  few  hours  when  the  butter  will  rise  to 
the  top  and  can  be  skimnned  off. 

Ground  or  Orated  Coooanut 

Is  delightful  on  breakfast  cereals,  or  eaten  with  bread  in  place 
of  butter.  The  brown  covering  of  the  meat  should  first  be 
taken  off. 

Shredded  Coooanut 

Put  any  left-overs  of  prepared  cocoanut  on  a  plate  and  set  in 
the  sun  or  near  the  stove  to  dry.  keep  in  glass  jars  in  a  dry 
place.  This  unsweetened  cocoanut  can  be  used  for  shortening 
and  in  many  places  where  sweet  is  not  desirable. 

Kilk  and  Bioh  Cream  of  Baw  Feonuta 

May  be  prepared  the  same  as  cocoanut  milk,  except  that  cold 
or  lukewarm  water  is  used  instead  of  hot. 

To  raw  nut  meal  (not  butter)  add  one  half  more  of  water  than 
you  have  of  meal.  Mix  and  beat  well,  strain  through  a  thin 
cloth,  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Let  milk  stand  in  a  cool  place 
and  a  very  rich  cream  will  rise  which  may  be  used  for  shorten- 
ing pie  crust,  crackers  and  sticks,  or  in  place  of  dairy  cream  in 
other  ways.  The  skimmed  milk  will  be  suitable  for  soups,  stews 
or  gravies.  It  may  be  cooked  before  using  if  more  convenient. 
The  pulp  also  may  be  used  in  soups.  It  should  be  thoroughly 
cooked. 

17ut  Belish 

Different  nut  butters  and  meals  may  be  combined  in  varying 
proportions.  For  instance,  2  parts  Brazil  nuts,  i  part  each  pine 
nuts  and  almonds;  or  i  part  each  Brazil  nuts,  almonds,  pecans, 
and  pine  nuts.     Dry  nuts  well  and  grind  all  together  or  combine 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS NUTS  147 

after  §;rinding.  Press  into  tumblers  or  small  tins  and  stand  in 
cool  place.  Unmold  to  serve.  The  relish  may  be  used  in  com- 
binations suggested  for  whole  nuts,  and  it  is  a  great  improve- 
ment over  cheese,  with  apple  pie. 

Toaated  Almonds 

When  blanched  almonds  are  thoroughly  dried,  put  them  into 
a  slow  oven  and  let  them  come  gradually  to  a  delicate  cream 
color,  not  brown.  These  may  be  served  in  place  of  salted 
almonds. 

Sweetmeats  of  fruits  and  nuts  will  be  found  among  confections. 

COOKED  NUT  DISHES 
Nut  Croquettes 

I  cup  chopped  nuts  (not  too  fine),  hickory,  pecan,  pine  or 
butternuts,  or  a  mixture  of  two  with  some  almonds  if  desired;  2 
cups  boiled  rice  or  hominy,  ij^  tablespn.  oil  or  melted  butter, 
salt,  sage.  Mi.\,  shape  into  rolls  about  i  in.  in  diameter  and 
2%  in.  in  length.  Egg  and  crumb;  bake  in  quick  oven  until 
just  heated  through  and  delicately  browned,  8  to  lo  m.  Serve 
plain  or  with  any  desired  sauce  or  vegetable. 
Hut  Croquettes  No.  3 

I  cup  chopped  nuts,  i  cup  cooked  rice,  any  desired  seasoning 
or  none,  salt;  mix. 

2  tablespns.  oil  i  egg  or  j'olk  only  or 


>4  cup  flour 


3  egg 


.■i}i  cup  milk  salt 

Heat  but  do  not  brown  the  oil,  add  half  the  flour,  then  the 
milk,  and  when  smooth,  the  salt  and  the  remainder  of  the 
flour,,  and  combine  with  mixed  nuts  and  rice.  Cool,  shape,  egg, 
crumb,  bake.  Crumb  also  before  dipping  in  egg  the  same  as 
Trumese  croquettes,  if  necessary.  Bake  only  until  beginning  to 
crack.     Serve  at  once. 

Bavoiy  Nut  Croquettes 
I  cup  stale,  quite  dry,  bread  crumbs,    %   cup  (scant)  milk  or 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


148  THE    LAUREL 

consomm^,  %-)^  level  teaspn.  powdered  leaf  sage  or  winter 
savory,  %  cup  black  walnut  or  butternut  meats,  salt.  Mix, 
shape,  egg,  crumb,  bake. 

I  cup  chopped  mixed  nuts  may  be  used  and  celery  salt  or  no 
flavoring.     Hickory  nut  meats  alone,  require  no  flavoring. 
Nut  fuid  Sweet  Potato  Cutlets 

1  cup  chopped  nut  meats  I  tablespn.  butter 

2  cups  chopped  boiled  sweet  1  egg 

potato  salt 

Mix  while  warm.      Pack  in  brick-shaped  tin  until  cold.      Un- 
mold,   slice,  egg,  crumb  or  flour.      Brown  in  quick  oven  or  on 
oiled  griddle.     Serve  plain  or  with  sauce  16  or  17. 
ic  Baked  Pine  Nuts 

After  picking  out  the  pieces  of  shell,  pour  boiling  water  over 
2  lbs.  of  pine  nuts  in  a  fine  colander.  Rinse  in  cold  water  and 
put  into  the  bean  pot,  with  2  large  onions  sliced  fine,  i-x]A,  cup 
strained  tomato  and  2-2^  teaspns.  salt.  Heat  quite  rapidly  at 
first;  boil  gently  for  a  half  hour,  then  simmer  slowly  in  the  oven 
10-12  hours  or  longer.  Leave  just  juicy  for  serving. 
Blaok  Walnut  and  Potato  Hound 

Mix  I  qt.  nicely  seasoned,  well  beaten  mashed  potato,  %-i 
cup  chopped  black  walnut  meats  and  2  or  3  tablespns.  grated 
onion.  Pile  in  rocky  mound  on  baking  pan  or  plate.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs  or  not.  Bake  in  quick  oven  until  delicately 
browned.  Garnish  and  serve  with  sauce  6  or  16. 
TSvA  and  Bioe  Boast  or  Timbole 
1-2  cups  chopped  nuts,  one  kind  or  mixed  (no  English  wal- 
nuts unless  blanched),  2  cups  boiled  or  steamed  rice,  I H-3  table- 
spns, oil  or  melted  butter,  salt. 

Mix  ingredients  and  put  into  well  oiled  timbale  mold  or  in- 
dividual molds  or  brick  shaped  tin.  Bake  covered,  in  pan  of 
water  ^-i  %   hr.   according  to   size   of   mold.      Uncover  large 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS NUTS  I49 

mold  a  short  time  at  the  last.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  after 
removing  from  oven,  unmold,  and  serve  with  creamed  celery 
or  peas  or  with  sauce  16  (cocoanut  cream  if  convenient)  or  34. 

Loaf  may  be  flavored,  and  served  with  any  suitable  sauce, 
IiOBt  of  Nuts 

a  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  butternuts  hazelnuts,    and 

ys  cup  whole  peanuts  cooked  hickory  nuts) 

almost  tender  2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs 

}4  cup  each  chopped  or  ground  pressed  firmly  into  the  cup 

pecans,  almonds  andfilberts  (or        salt 

M-i  cup  water  or  i  of  milk 

The  quantity  of  liquid  will  depend  upon  the  crumbs  and  other 
conditions.  Put  into  oiled  mold  or  can,  cover,  steam  3  hours. 
Or,  have  peanuts  cooked  tender,  form  into  oval  loaf,  bake  on 
tin  in  oven,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and  water  or  salted 
M^ater  only.  Serve  with  sauce  9,  10,  57.  59,  or  6g.  Loaf  may 
be  served  cold  in  slices,  or  dipped  in  egg,  and  crumbed, 
and  baked  as  cutlets. 

Other  nuts  may  be  substituted  for  peanuts. 

One-half   cup   black   walnuts   and    i  yi   cup  cooked  peanuts, 
chopped,    make   a  good   combination.     A  delicate  flavoring  of 
sage,  savory  or  onion  is  not  out  of  place  with  these. 
To  BoU  Peanuts 

Put  blanched,  shelled  peanuts  into  boiling  water  and  boil  con- 
tinuously, for  from  3-5  hrs. ,  or  until  tender.  {When  the  alti- 
tude is  not  great  it  takes  Virginias  4  or  5  hours  and  Spanish 
about  3  to  cook  tender). 

Drain,  saving  the  liquid  for  soup  stock,  and  use  when  boiled 
peanuts  are  called  for. 

Nut  Soup  Stock 

Use  the  liquid,  well  diluted,  poured  off  from  boiled  peanuts, 
for  soups.  Large  quantities  may  be  boiled  down  to  a  jelly  and 
kept  for  a  long  time  in  a  dry  place.  If  paraffine  is  poured  over 
the  jelly,  it  will  keep  still  better.  Use  i  tablespn.  only  of  this 
jelly  for  each  quart  of  soup. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


150  THE    LAUREL 

Peanuts  with  Green  Peaa 
Boil  1  cup  blanched  peanuts  1-2  hrs.,  drain  off  the  water  and 
save  for  soup.  Put  fresh  water  on  to  the  peanuts,  add  salt  and 
finish  cooking.  Just  before  serving  add  i  pt.  of  drained,  canned 
peas.  Heat  well.  Add  more  salt  if  necessary,  and  serve.  Or, 
I  pt.  of  fresh  green  peas  may  be  cooked  with  the  nuts  at  the  last. 
Small  new  potatoes  would  be  a  suitable  addition  also. 
it  Feanuta  Baked  like  Beans 

I  lb.  (H  qt, )  blanched  peanuts         J4-i  tabiespn.  browned  flour 
/4  cup  strained  tomato  i}i-iyi  teaspn.  salt 

Mix  browned  flour,*  tomato  and  salt,  put  into  bean  pot  with 
the  nuts  and  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  J^ 
hr.,  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven  8-14  hours.  Add  boiling  water 
without  stirring,  when  necessary.  When  done  the  peanuts 
should  be  slightly  juicy. 

Small  dumplings  steamed  separately,  may  be  served  with 
baked  peanuts  sometimes. 

Baked  FeanatS"I>emon  Apples 

Pile  peanuts  in  center  of  platter  or  chop  tray.  Surround 
with  lemon  apples,  garnish  with  grape  leaves  and  tendrils  or 
with  foliage  plant  leaves. 

Peanuts  witli  Noodles  or  Vermioelli 

Cook  peanuts  in  bouillon  with  bay  leaf  and  onions.     Just  be- 
fore serving,  add  cooked  noodles  or  vermicelli. 
Nut  Chinese  Stew 

Use  boiled  peanuts  instead  of  nutmese  and  raw  nut  butter, 
and  rice  (not  too  much)  in  place  of  potato,  in  Nut  Irish  Stew. 
Peanut  Gumbo 

Simmer  sliced  or  chopped  onion  in  butter;  add  I  pt.  stewed 
okra;  simmer  5-10  m.  Add  l  pt.  strained  tomato,  then  }i-\  qt. 
of  baked  or  boiled  peanuts.  Turn  into  a  double  boiler  and  add 
yi  cup  boiled  rice.     Heat  15-20  m. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS— NUTS 


Hot  Fot  of  Feanuta 


Put  layers  of  sliced  onion,  sliced  potatoes  and  boiled  peanuts 
into  baking  dish  with  salt  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  sage.  Cover 
the  top  with  halved  potatoes.  Stir  a  little  raw  nut  butter  with 
water  and  pour  over  all.  Cover  with  a  plate  or  close  fitting 
cover  and  bake  2  hours.  Remove  cover  and  brown. 
Feaaut  Hashea 

Cooked  peanuts,  chopped  very  little  if  any,  may  be  used  in 
place  of  trumese  with  potatoes  or  rice  for  hash. 

Bread,  cracker  or  zwieback  crumbs  may  be  substituted  forpo- 
toto  or  rice. 

Feanut  Gtorman  Cliowder 

1  pt.  cooked  peanuts  i  level  tablespn.  browned  flour 

1  large  ooion  2  level  tablespns.  white  flour 

2  tablespns,  chopped  parsley  i  pint  milk 

J4  medium  sized  bay  leaf  i  pt,  thin  nut  milk  or  broth 

J^  level  teaspn.  thyme  small  biscuit  of  universal  dough 

I  small  carrot  oil  or  melted  butter 

Split  biscuit  and  brown  slowly  in  the  oven.  Slice  or  chop 
carrots  and  onions  and  mi.\  together;  mix  thyme,  broken  pieces 
of  bay  leaf,  both  kinds  of  flour  and  salt,  and  pour  into  them 
gradually,  stirring,  the  milk  and  broth. 

Put  a  little  oil  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  layers  of 
the  vegetables,  peanuts  and  twice  baked  biscuit  and  pour  some 
of  the  liquid  over.  Repeat  layers,  leaving  biscuit  on  top.  Pour 
remaining  liquid  over  all.  Sprinkle  with  what  remains  of  the 
chopped  parsley.  Cover  and  bake  1H-2  hrs.  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Uncover  and  brown  on  top  at  last.  Serve  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  was  baked. 

With  care,  the  chowder  may  be  cooked  in  a  kettle  by  using 
more  oil  at  the  bottom,  standing  where  the  heat  is  not  too  in- 
tense, and  replenishing  with  water  when  necessary. 

Serve  on  a  platter  or  turn  into  a  tureen  with  a  cup  of  hot 
rich  milk  or  broth  added  if  more  liquid  is  desired. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


I  52  THE    LAUREL 

The  flavorings  may  be  varied;  savory  and  marjoram  are  some- 
times used,  garlic  for  some  tastes,  also  a  little  tomato.  The 
herbs  may  be  omitted  entirely.  Crackers  may  take  the  place  of 
biscuit.      Nut  milk  only,  may  be  used. 

Peanut  and  Bioe  Croquettea 

2  cups  boiled  or  baked  peanuts     i  j4  tablespn.  oil 
2  cups  boiled  rice  sage,  savory  or  chopped  onion 

salt 

Chop  nuts  very  little  if  at  all.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Shape, 
egg,  crumb,  bake.     Serve  plain  or  with  sauce  6,  44,    57,   or  72. 

Peanut  Fie 
Universal  crust  of  %-i  cup  of  liquid,  I  qt.  of  peanuts  boiled  with 
salt  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  drained  (liquid  saved  for  soups  and 
gravies).     Chopped  onion  and  parsley. 
Saiict — 

5  tablespns.  oil  and  melted  6  tablespns.  flour 

butter  or  all  butter  i  qt.  boiling  water 

salt 

Mix  butter  and  flour,  pouring  boiling  water  over,  boil  up,  add 
salt,  and  half  of  onion  and  parsley;  pour  into  oiled  baking  dish. 
put  peanuts  in,  sprinkle  remainder  of  onion  and  parsley  over, 
cool  to  lukewarm,  lay  crust  on,  let  rise,  bake. 

A  pastry,  rice  or  mashed  potato  crust  (without  eggs)  may  be 
used  :  if  pastry,  put  a  cup  in  the  center  of  the  pie  to  support 
the  crust ;  with  potato  crust  it  would  be  better  to  simmer  the 
onion  in  the  oil  of  the  sauce  first. 

Peanut  Pie  witli  Turnip  Cruat 

Bake  or  boil  peanuts  (leaving  quite  dry  when  done)  with 
sliced  onion  and  a  little  carrot,  browned  flour  and  a  little  tomato, 
parsley,  salt  and  celery  salt,  a  trifle  of  thyme  and  garlic  if  desired. 
Thicken  slightly,  turn  into  baking  dish,  cover  with  mashed  tur- 
nip, sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  dot  with  butter 
or  oil.     Bake  until  top  is  nicely  browned. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS NUTS  I  53 

Cups  or  pastry  shells  may  be  used  in  place  of  large  dish  for 
Nut  Scallops. 

ir  Peanut  Cheese 

yi  lb.  peanuts,  boiled,  ground;  5-S/4  tablespns.  Nut  French 
soup  or  consomm^  which  has  been  cooked  down  thick;  4  eggs,  I 
teaspn.  salt,  a  trifle  of  sage  if  desired.  Mix  all  ingredients  and 
put  into  well  oiled  porcelain  or  glass  jars  (if  glass,  follow  direc- 
tions for  cooking  trumese  in  glass),  cover  close  and  steam 
iK-2  hrs. 

Pine  Hut  Cheese 
K  lb.  coarse  pine  nul  butter  3-4.  tablespns.  water 

4  tablespns.  thick  tomato  pulp,  t-i^  teaspns.  salt 

either  red  or  yellow  tomatoes 

Steam  3-4  hrs. 

Pine  Nut  and  Banana  Cheese 
%  lb.  coarse  pine  nut  butter  1-2  tablespns.  water 

5  tablespns.  banana  pulp  1%  level  teaspn.  salt 

Steam  3-4  hrs. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Belish 
I   cup  fine  chopped  nuts — shell  barks,   almonds,    pine   nuts, 
cashews  and  English  walnuts  or  other  combinations;  i  cup  ba- 
nana pulp,  %  teaspn.  salt;  mix  all  together,  pack  in  mold,  steam 
3  hours.     Serve  cold  in  slices,   with  gems,   wafers,  sweet  fruits 
or  cakes.     Nice  for  travelling  lunches. 
Almond  Cheese 
%  lb.  blanched  almonds  2  et;i;5 

4  tablespns.  tomato  pulp  )^-}%  teaspns.  salt 

Cook  almonds  5  hours;  grind  through  nut  butter  cutter,  or 
press  through  fine  colander;  add  other  ingredients,  mix  well, 
steam  i%-2  hrs. 

Almond  Oonfeotion 
yi  lb.  almond  butter  3  tablespns.  water 

K  level  teaspn.  salt  fi  cup  fine  cut  citron 

5/^  tablespns.  banana  pulp      16  candied  cherries  cut  fine 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


154  THE   LAUREL 

Bake  1-2  hours  (according  to  size  of  loaves)  in  slow  oven. 
Cherries  and  citron  may  be  ground  through  food  cutter — finest 
knife. 

Yi  cup  very  finely-cut  raisins  and   ^   cup  hickory  nut  meats, 
in  pieces,  may  be  used  instead  of  citron  and  cherries.     ' 
i(  Nesselrode  Confection — Peanut 

J4  lb.  raw  Virginia  peanut  i/i  tablespn.  well  washed  and 

butter  dried  currants 

5,^  tablespns.  banana  pulp  i  J^  tablespn.  fine  cut  citron 

4  tablespns.  water  2  tablespns.  pieces  hickory  nut, 

%  teaspn.  salt  black  or  English  walnut  meats 

3  tablespns.  raisins  cut  fine  with  shears 

Mix.  Bake  \%~2  hours  in  very  slow,  just  warm,  oven,  on 
pad. 

TBUHESE 

Many  years  ago  when  experimenting  with  gluten  washed  from 
wheat,  the  thought  came  to  me  that  it  would  be  a  good  thing  if 
it  could  be  combined  with  nuts,  as  the  nuts  would  supply  the  oil 
lacking  in  the  gluten.  From  former  experiments  1  knew  it  would 
be  a  difficult  problem,  but  it  was  finally  solved  and  has  resulted 
in  giving  to  the  world  a  valuable  food  product,  which  gives  me 
great  joy. 

I  give  directions  (the  results  of  my  own  experimenting)  for 
making  this  food  as  perfectly  as  it  can  be  made  in  our  homes 
without  the  aid  of  special  machinery. 

Whether  it  pays  to  make  it  or  not  depends  on  the  value  of 
our  time  or  whether  we  can  procure  similar  foods  all  ready  pre- 
pared. (Similar  manufactured  foods  on  the  market  are  called 
"protose,"  "nutfoda"  and  "nut  cero",  according  to  where  they 
are  made). 

A  part  of  the  process  will  be  entirely  new  to  many  but  it  is 
not  at  ail  difficult,  and  if  directions  are  carefully  followed  the 
result  will  be  success  and  soon  the  making  of  aquantity  of  "tru- 
mese,"  as  I  have  called  it  for  convenience,  will  not  be  considered 
a  greater  task  than  baking  a  batch  of  bread. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


TRUE   MEATS— NUTS  155 

The  first  thing  of  importance  in  making  trumese  is  securing  a 
%oo&.  fresh  bread  flour  OTi^  that  is  called  a  heavy  flour,  not 
a  blended  or  a  light  flour. 

A  good  bread  flour  will  yield  about  two  pounds  of  gluten  to 
each  seven  pounds  of  flour:  but  in  trying  a  brand  with  which 
you  are  not  familiar,  take  J^-I  lb.  more  if  you  wish  to  have  two 
pounds  of  gluten. 

I  give  the  recipe  for  two  pounds  of  gluten,  but  if  you  are 
making  trumese  for  the  first  time  it  may  be  well  to  take  half 
that  quantity. 

The  following  suggestions  will  enable  you  to  substitute  meas- 
ures for  weights  if  you  have  no  scales,  and  to  calculate  the  rec- 
ipe for  trumese: 

I  scant  qt.  of  bread  flour,  laid  lightly  in  the  measure,  equals  i  lb. 

I  scant  qt,  of  washed  gluten  equals  2  lbs. 

I  scant  pt.  of  blanched,  dried,  Virginia  peanuts,  before  grind- 
ing, equals  K  'h. 

I  scant  half  pt.  of  Virginia  butter  equals  %  lb. 

I  good  ^  pt.  blanched,  dried,  Spanish  peanuts,  before  grind- 
ing, equals  %  lb. 

I  good  H  pt.  of  Spanish  butter  equals  %  lb. 

I  large  %  qt.  of  pine  nuts  equals  i  lb. 

Spanish  peanuts  require  3  hours  for  cooking. 

Vii^inia  peanuts  require  4-5  hours  for  cooking. 

In  mixing  flour  and  water,  calculate  a  little  over  I  cup  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  flour,  or  8K-9  cups  for  7  lbs. 

The  starch  from  the  first  one  or  two  washings  of  the  gluten 
dough  may  be  used  wherever  thickening  is  required;  and  for 
blanc  mange,  by  adding  it  to  boiling  (sweetened  or  unsweetened) 
milk  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  mold;  or,  for  starching 
clothes.  It  is  much  better  than  whole  flour  for  any  of  these 
purposes.      It  may  also  be  used  in  place  of  the  corn  starch  in 


.b,Gooi^lc 


156  THE    LAUREL 

Corn  Starch  Nutmese.  No  exact  rule  can  be  given  for  that, 
but  a  trial  or  two  will  enable  one  to  calculate  the  quantity,  and 
and  the  nutmese  is  superior  to  that  made  with  corn  starch. 

Make  consommes  double  strength  when  using  them  for  liquid 
in  trumese.  As  a  rule,  it  is  better  to  make  trumese  plain  and 
season  as  desired  when  preparing  for  the  table. 

If  cans  containing  trumese  do  not  leak,  cook  in  a  kettle  of 
water  with  something  beneath  the  cans,  otherwise  use  a  steamer. 
If  glass  jars  are  used,  start  in  cold  water  and  afterwards  put  into 
steamer,  if  preferring  not  to  leave  in  kettle. 

Trumese  from  peanuts  is  more  satisfactory  in  flavor  as  well  as 
cheaper,  but  to  meet  all  cases  I  give  recipes  for  making  it  of 
different  kinds  of  nuts.     The  general  directions  will  apply  to  all. 

Tminese 
2  lbs.  gluten  $%  teaspns.  salt 

J^  lb.  raw  Virginia  peanut  2-2/^  cups  very  strong  cereal 

butter  coffee 

/^  lb.  Virginia  peanuts  cooked  4.  hrs. 

If  not  sure  of  a  pure  cereal  coffee  use  4  teaspns.  browned  Hour 
with  2  cups  of  water. 

Steam  6-12  hrs.,  or  steam  5  hrs.  and  bake  I  hr,  in  aivryslow 
oven. 

The  cooked  peanuts  are  boiled  and  drained  and  the  liquid 
saved  for  soups. 

TO  PBEPABE  THE  GLUTEH 

when  sifted  flour  is  weighed  or  measured,  spread  about  J^  of 
it  on  the  molding  board  and  put  the  remainder  in  a  pan.  To 
this  add  cold  water,  stirring,  until  you  think  the  dough  when 
kneaded  with  the  flour  on  the  board  will  be  very  stiff.  Stir  the 
soft  dough  well,  turn  it  on  to  the  board  and  knead  in  the  remain- 
ing flour.  If  dough  is  too  soft  it  will  waste  in  washing,  and  if 
too  stiff  (of  which  there  is  not  much  danger)  it  will  be  more 
diflicult  to  wash. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS NUTS  157 

After  kneading  return  the  dough  to  the  pan,  cover  with  cold 
water  (or  with  several  thicknesses  of  towel  wrung  out  of  cold 
water)  and  let  it  stand  >4  hr.  only. 

Now,  set  the  pan  in  the  sink  with  a  lai^e  fine  colander  in  the 
dish  drainer  beside  it.  Let  water  run  from  the  faucet  to  nearly 
fill  the  pan  (if  the  water  from  the  faucet  is  very  cold,  have  a 
teakettle  of  hot  water  at  your  right  hand  to  take  off  the  chill) 
and  work  the  dough  with  the  hands  until  the  water  is  thick  with 
starch.  Pour  that  through  a  strainer  into  some  vessel  where  it 
can  settle,  to  be  used  for  any  of  the  purposes  mentioned.  Con- 
tinue to  wash  the  dough,  draining  the  water  through  the  colan- 
der (so  as  to  catch  any  particles  of  gluten)  into  the  sink,  until  no 
starch  remains  in  the  vrater.  You  now  have  the  part  of  the 
wheat  which  gives  strength,  the  proteid  element.  Put  the  mass 
of  gluten  into  a  bowl,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  about 
an  hour  (no  longer,)  draining  occasionally. 

Weigh  out  the  2  \hs.  of  gluten,  run  it  through  the  food  cutter 
with  the  finest  knife,  add  the  cooked  and  raw  nuts  which  have 
been  ground  into  butter  and  mixed  together  with  the  salt,  and 
put  all  through  the  machine  five  or  six  times.  If  desired  very 
fine,  use  the  nut  butter  cutter  the  last  time.  Now  mix  with  the 
cereal  coffee,  put  into  oiled  cans  with  close  fitting  covers  and 
steam.  Sealed  glass  jars  may  be  used  if  it  is  necessary  to  keep 
the  trumese  for  some  time,  but  it  cannot  be  taken  out  of  them 
in  as  good  shape. 

Another  way  to  fill  the  cans  is  to  divide  the  nut  and  gluten 
mixture  into  equal  parts,  put  equal  parts  of  the  liquid  into  as 
many  different  cans,  and  run  each  part  of  the  mixture  through 
the  mill  again  into  the  separate  cans,  or  drop  it  into  the  cans  in 
the  shreds  in  which  it  comes  from  the  mill.  This  may  give  a 
little  better  fibre. 

Another  way  of  preparing  the  whole.  Cut  the  gluten  into 
pieces  with  the  shears;  mix  the  cooked  and  uncooked  nuts  with- 
out grinding;  put  a  piece  of  gluten  into  the  mill,  then  a  few  nuts. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


IjS  THE    LAUREL 

grinding,  until  all  are  through.  Sprinkle  salt  over  the  mass  and 
put  it  through  the  mill  five  or  six  times  more,  the  last  time  with 
the  nut  butter  cutter.  This  gives  a  coarser  grained  trumese, 
but  is  an  easier  way. 

A  still  easier  way  is  to  use  all  cooked  nuts,  but  the  trumese  is 
a  little  tasteless  to  eat  as  it  comes  from  the  can.  In  making  it, 
use  4H  teaspns.  of  salt  and  2  cups  of  liquid  only. 

TmmeBe  No.  2 

Larger  proportion  of  nuts 
I  lb.  gluten  H  lb.  cooked  nuts  or  butter 

%  lb.  raw  nuts  or  butter  3  teaspns.  salt 

about  I  a  cup  cereal  coffee 

Steam  6-12  hrs.,  or  steam  5  hrs.  and  bake  i  hr.  When  baked 
I  hr.,  use  about  l%  cup  cereal  coffee. 

Bed  Kidney  Bean  TmmeM 
I  lb.  gluten  3^-4  teaspns.  salt 

}i  lb.  raw  nut  butter  7  tablespus.  (large  half  cup) 

/^  lb.  { 1 J^  cup)  red  kidney  beans  cereal  coffee 

Cook  beans  until  tender  and  dry,  riib  through  colander,  com- 
bine with  other  ingredients  and  finish  as  for  nut  trumese. 

Fine  Hut  Tnunese 
I  lb.  gluten  3-4  teaspns.  browned  flour 

I  lb.  pine  nuts,  raw      about  2H  cups  water 
3  teaspns.  salt  or  cereal  coffee  and  no  browned  flour 

Almond  TrumMe 
I  lb.  gluten  2H-3  teaspns.  salt 

I  lb,  almonds,  raw,  blanched  2  cups  water,  scant 

With  both  Almond  and  Pine  Nut  trumese  it  is  better  to  grind 
the  gluten  and  nuts  together  first. 

English  Walnut  Trumese 
I  lb.  gluten  2H  teaspns.  salt 

I  lb.  English  walnut  butter  ij^-iji  cup  water 


.b,Coo^^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — NUTS  159 

BtbeU  Nat  Tromeae 
I  lb.  gluten  2>4-3  teaspns.  salt 

I  lb.  Brazil  nut  butter  about  2  cups  cereal  coffee 

Cashew  Nat  Trumese 
I  lb.  gluten  3  teaspns.  salt 

I  lb.  cashew  nuts,  ground  about  2?^  cups  cereal  coffee 

A  little  sage  or  savory  ii  desired 

TBUHE8E  DISHES 

Trumese  may  be  cut  down  the  center,  if  loaf  is  round,  laid  on 

its  fiat  surface,  sliced  and  served  with  celery,  olives,  apples,  salt 

and  oil,  oil  and  lemon  juice;  Chili,  chutney,  apple  or  gooseberry 

sauce  or  jelly. 

When  serving  trumese  to  any  one  for  the  first  time,  prepare 
it  in  some  of  the  hot  ways,  either  broiled  with  a  nice  sauce,  or 
in  cutlets  or  pie  perhaps,  since  many  people  would  not  be  favor- 
ably impressed  with  it  cold,  until  their  taste  had  been  educated 
to  it. 

"Taste  is  a  matter  of  education."  We  naturally  like  what 
we  have  been  accustomed  to. 

Tmmeae  Salad  Entrde.    Better  than  Sardmea 
I  tablespn.  chopped  parsley  %-i  teaspn.  celery  salt 

^  tablespn.  chopped  onion  H  cup  olive  oil 

H-i  teaspn.  salt  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  oil,  then  lemon  juice  slowly,  stirring. 

Pour  this  over  i  lb.  of  trumese  which  has  been  cut  in  suitable 

shapes  and  laid  in  a  flat  pan.     Let  stand  2  hrs.  or  longer.     Serve 

on  lettuce  leaves  or  with  garnish  of  tomato  and  lemon. 

Broiled  Tromese 

Lay  slices  of  trumese  on  a  well  oiled  hot,  not  burned,  griddle 
and  brown  delicately  on  both  sides.  Or,  brush  lightly  with  oil, 
lay  in  a  shallow  pan  and  put  into  a  hot  oven.  Or,  broil  in  a 
wire  broiler  over  coals  or  over  or  under  a  gas  blaze.  Serve  with 
sauce  6.  12.  r6.  17.  51.  54.  57.  or73orwithalmost  anyof  themeat 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


l60  THE    LAUREL 

and  vegetable  sauces;  with  apple  sauce,  baked  apples,  lemon 
apples  or  jelly;  with  green  peas,  string  beans,  creamed  corn  or 
any  creamed  vegetables;  with  cabbage  or  celery  in  tomato  or 
with  stewed  onions.  It  may  also  be  served  on  or  around  a 
mound  of  boiled  rice  with  lentil  or  brown  gravy,  or  with  pilau 
or  mashed  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes. 

Trameae~JeUy  Saaoe 

Add  jelly  or  jelly  and  lemon  juice  to  melted  butter  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  when  hot  dip  slices  of  broiled  trumese  in  the  sauce,  lay 
them  on  a  platter  and  pour  sauce  over, 

Tmmese  and  Italian  Sauce  on  Biaoult  or  Doinplinga 

Lay  steamed  dumplings  or  split  biscuit  on  platter,   pour  hot 
sauce  over  and  cover  or  surround  with  slices  of  broiled  trumese. 
it  Trumese  with  Poached  Egx 

Broil  round  slices  of  trumese  and  serve  with  a  nicely  poached 
egg  on  each  slice.  Do  not  forget  the  parsley  garnish.  The  tru- 
mese and  soft  poached  egg  make  a  delightful  combination. 
Cream  sauce  poured  over  the  slices  of  trumese  before  the  eggs 
are  put  on  makes  a  very  rich  dish. 

■ff  Tmmese  and  Egga 

Mix  nut  butter  smooth  with  water  or  tomato,  add  chopped 

ripe  olives.     Spread  round  slices  of  broiled  trumese  with  the 

mixture,  just  warm  in  oven  and  sUde  a  nicely  poached  egg  on  to 

each. 

^  TrnmeBe  with  Uuehrooms 
Lay  slices  of  broiled  trumese  on  platter  with  crisp  toast  points 
surrounding.     Place  broiled  mushrooms  on  trumese,  pour  hot 
(not  browned)  melted  butter  over  and  serve. 

ir  Trumese  i.  la  Hode 

Cook  together  chopped  onion  and  carrot  and  tine  sliced  celery, 

drain  and  spread  over  shoes  of  broiled  trumese  which  have  been 


t,zcob,CoOt^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — NUTS  l6l 

laid  on  an  agate  baking  pan.  Add  a  little  fresh  or  stewed  tomato, 
a  trifle  of  fresh  or  powdered  thyme  and  a  very  little  chopped 
fresh  mint.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  Mix  salt,  a  little 
celery  salt,  browned  flour,  butter  or  oil  and  hot  water  and  pour 
over  all.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  covered  part  of  the  time.  In 
serving,  lay  trumese  carefully  on  platter,  cover  with  vegetables 
remaining  in  pan  and  pour  liquid,  if  any,  over. 

Parsley  and  sliced  carrots  make  an  appropriate  garnish,  but 
the  dish  is  well  garnished  of  itself. 

A  whole  brick-shaped  loaf,  or  halves  of  round  loaves  laid  the 
flat  side  down  in  a  pan,  may  be  used  instead  of  slices  of  trumese. 

Vegetables  may  be  put  under  as  well  as  over  the  trumese. 

The  following  combinations  may  be  substituted  for  the  one 
given: 

Chopped  raw  carrots  and  onion,  thyme,  bay  leaf,  browned 
flour,  butter  and  oil  and  consomm^.  Bake,  covered  most  of  the 
time,  when  the  raw  vegetables  are  used.  A  gravy  of  nut  butter, 
tomato  and  water,  thickened,  may  be  used  instead  of  the  con- 
somme. 

Celery,  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  bay  leaf,  parsley,  salt,  browned 
and  white  flour,  oil  or  butter,  water. 

Onion,  tomato,  garlic,  j)arsley,  butter  or  oil,  browned  flour, 
salt,  water.  This  sauce  may  be  thickened  a  little  and  the  whole 
served  on  boiled  rice,  the  Mexican  way. 

it  TrumeBe  in  Tomato 

This  is  one  of  the  most  satisfying  preparations  and  is  just  as 
good  cold  as  warm. 

Pour  enough  slightly  salted,  strained  or  unstrained  stewed  to- 
mato over  the  bottom  of  a  granite  pan  to  cover  it  well.  Lay 
Ji  in.  slices  of  trumese  in  the  tomato  and  heat  all  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  the  trumese  has  absorbed  the  tomato  and  is  well  dried. 
If  too  moist,  the  character  is  not  developed.  The  pulp  in  the 
pan  is  all  the  sauce  that  is  required.  Ripe  olives  are  an  excel- 
lent accompaniment. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


l62  THE   LAUREL 

Tnunese  with  Onions 

Lay  slices  of  broiled  trumese  in  baking  pan,  cover  with  sliced 
onions  and  sprinkle  with  salt  mixed  with  browned  flour.  Pour 
a  little  oil,  melted  butter  or  nut  cream  over.  Add  a  little  water 
when  necessary.  Cover  and  bake  until  onions  are  tender.  Re- 
move cover  at  the  last.  Make  gravy  of  the  remains  in  the  pan 
after  trumese  is  removed  by  adding  water  and  thickening.  Strain 
into  a  bowl  or  over  trumese.  May  serve  on  boiled  rice, 
Spanish  Trumese 

Cover  "Trumese  with  Onions"  with  stewed,  or  raw  sliced, 

tomatoes  about  J^  hour  before  it  is  done  and  make  gravy  the  same. 

Tramese  Smothered  with  Bananas 

Cover  slices  of  broiled  trumese  with  sliced  bananas,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt,  pour  a  little  lemon  juice  over  and  bake  until 
bananas  are  soft.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Tmmese  Baked  with  Onion  Dressing 

Place  layers  of  broiled  trumese  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water,  cover 
with  a  dressing  made  in  the  proportion  of  2  cups  bread  crumbs, 
2  chopped  onions,  i  level  tablespn.  butter  or  oil  and  2  beaten  e^s. 
Bake,  covered,  %  hour,  uncover  and  brown  on  top  grate.  Make 
gravy  in  pan  by  adding  consomm^  and  thickening,  after  the  tru- 
mese and  dressing  are  removed.  Or,  lay  slices  of  stale  bread 
over  trumese,  cover  with  sliced  onions  and  a  little  oil,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  bake  l  hour  covered. 

if  Tnimeae  Cutlets 

Dip  slices  of  trumese  in  egg  beaten  with  salt  and  water,  i 
teaspn.  of  water  to  each  egg.  Roll  in  fine  zwieback,  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs.  Brown  in  hot  oven.  Serve  at  once,  plain  or 
with  any  desired  sauce. 

The  yolk  or  white  of  e^  only  with  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  wa- 
ter may  be  used.  Sometimes,  substitute  lemon  juice  for  water 
with  the  yolk. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS NUTS  163 

Again,  stir  2  level  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter  with  1^-2 
tablespns.  of  water  and  add  to  i  e^  with  salt  and  chopped  onion 
or  any  desired  flavoring. 

I'l  %  tablespn.  cream  to  an  egg  makes  a  rich  dipping  mixture. 

Lemon  Bings- ••Parsley  Butter 
Cream  butter,  add  finely-chopped  parsley  and  place  paste  in 
pyramids  in  the  center  of  thick  slices  of  lemon;  serve  with  plain 
cutlets.  Paste  to  be  spread  on  hot  cutlet  and  lemon  squeezed 
over  by  each  individual.  Many  enjoy  a  mince  of  green  onions 
and  garlic  in  the  parsley  butter. 

Imperial  Cutleta 
Dip  trumese  in  batter  of  I  egg,  I  level  tablespn.  thick  tomato 
pulp,  a  little  grated  onion,  browned  fJourand  salt;  then  in  crumbs. 
Bake  and  serve  with  string  beans  or  greens. 

Savory  Cutlets— Mashed  Potato 
Use  salt,  a  trifle  of  sj^e  and   I    tablespn.    grated   or   chopped 
onion  (no  water)  with  the  e^.     Crumb;  bake,   and  serve  on  or 
around  mound  of  mashed  potato  with  drawn  butter. 
it  Batter  Cutlets 

Slitter —        2  tablespns.  oil  2  eggs 

3-4  tablespns.  flour  stale  bread  crumbs 

1%  cup  boiling  water  salt 

Heat  but  do  not  brown  oil  in  sauce  pan,  stir  in  flour,  add 
water,  stirring  smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  eggs  and  salt 
and  a  few  bread  crumbs. 

Broil  slices  of  trumese  on  one  side,  turn  and  drop  a  small 
spoonful  of  the  batter  on  each.  When  broiled  on  the  other  side, 
turn  again,  leaving  the  batter  next  to  the  griddle  and  drop  an- 
other spoonful  on  the  trumese,  turning  again  when  the  first  bat- 
ter is  delicately  browned.  Serve  (without  sauce)  as  soon  as 
second  side  is  browned. 

Or,  drop  spoonfuls  of  batter  on  a  hot,  well  oiled   baking  pan. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


164  THE    LAUREL 

lay  slices  of  broiled  trumese  on  each  and  spread  another  spoon- 
ful of  batter  on  top  of  each  slice;  bake  In  a  quick  oven. 

ir  Oreen  Cora  Cutlets 
Baltfr —  2  tahlespns.  oil  or  butter  i  teaspn.  sugar  if  corn   is 

3  tablespns.  flour  old 

'A  cup  boiling  water  3  tablespns.  dry  or  toasted 

%-yi  cup  grated  or  ground  bread  crumbs 

green  corn  i  egg 

Cook  batter  and  use  with  trumese  the  same  as  batter   cutlets. 
Batter  No.  2 

I  pt.  grated  corn  (if  canned,  grind  through  food  cutter),  2  e^s, 
with  dry  or  toasted  bread  crumbs  to  make  a  batter  thick  enough 
to  bake  well,  salt.  If  corn  is  dry,  add  a  little  milk  or  cream;  if 
very  moist,  add  oil  or  butter  only. 

Use  with  trumese  the  same  as  batter  cutlets. 
Ragout  fStev)  of  Tromeae 

Thicken  bouillon  or  consomm^  to  the  consistency  of  thin 
cream.  Add  trumese  cut  into  dice  and  simmer  for  20  m.  or 
longer.  Serve  plain  in  tureen,  or  on  toast,  or  in  rice  or  mashed 
potato  border. 

When  noodles,  or  macaroni  in  any  form  are  to  be  added  to  the 
stew,  simmer  a  bay  leaf  and  more  onion  in  the  bouillon  before 
thickening;  garlic  also  if  liked. 

One  day  we  added  some  water  drained  from  spinach  to  con- 
sommi,  thickened  it  and  added  a  little  cream  the  trumese   and 
some  nutmese,  and  we  had  a  choice  combination. 
Bagout  of  Trumese  Ho.  2 

Trumese;  onion,  garlic,  browned  flour,  tomato,  bay  leaf;  juni- 
per berries  crushed,  one  teaspoon  to  a  quart  of  stew. 
Stewed  Hashed  Trameae 

Simmer  hashed  trumese  in  bouillon  or  consomm^  until  just 
moist.     Serve  on  toast,  thin  crackers   or  rice:    or   put  trumese 


t,zcob,CoOt^lc 


TRUE    MEATS NUTS  lO? 

into  cream  sauce  and  serve  on  toast  with  or  without  a  poached 
e^  on  each  slice  of  toast. 

Tromeae  for  Luncheon  or  Seoonct  Coarse 

1  pt.  trumese  in  dice  >^  cup  cream 

2  level  tablespns.  butter  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

2  level  tablespns.  flour  i  tablespn.  orangejuiceflavored 

}i  cup  milk  with  rind  of  orange 

salt  J^-i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together  over  the  fire,  add  milk  and  salt. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  paste  with  the  cream  and  stir 
into  the  sauce,  then  add  trumese  and  sliced  whites  of  eggs. 
Heat  to  just  boiling,  remove  from  fire,  stir  in  quickly  the  flavored 
orange  juice  and  vanilla  and  serve  at  once.  %  cup  mush- 
rooms may  be  added  with  the  trumese.  In  that  case,  the  mush- 
room liquor  may  form  a  part  of  the  liquid  instead  of  the  whole 
half  cup  of  milk, 

Trumeae  witb  Truines  and  HnshroomB 

2  tablespns.  butter  2  mushrooms 

3  tablespns.  flour  yolks  of  2  eggs 

I  pt.  hut  milk  rings  of  green  onion  tops  or 

1  teaspn.  grated  onion  shreds  of  lettuce 

2  truffles  H-%  teaspn.  celery  salt 

salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour  and  milk,  stirring  until 
smooth.  Add  the  onion  and  yolks  of  e^s,  then  truffles  and 
mushrooms  which  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces  and  simmered 
(without  browning)  in  butter,  then  the  onion  tops  or  shreds  of 
lettuce  and  the  celery  salt.  Let  all  come  nearly  to  the  boilingpoint 
and  serve  over  broiled  trumese  without  delay, 

ir   Trumese  and  Hushrooma  k  la  Cr6me 

1  lb.  trumese  2  tablespns.  chopped  onion 

I  can  (r  cup)  mushrooms  4-g  tablespns.  flour 

zwieback,  cracker  crumbs  %  cup  water 

or  granella  }^  cup  cream 

3-4  tablespns.  oil  %  teaspn.  salt 


t,zcob,GoO<^lc 


l66  THE   LAUREL 

Simmer  onion  (without  browning)  in  oil,  add  flour,  water, 
cream  and  salt.  When  smooth,  remove  at  once  from  fire  and 
mix  in  lightly  the  mushrooms  in  halves  or  quarters  and  the  tru- 
mese  in  small  dice.  Put  into  scallop  dish,  or  pile  in  the  center 
of  shells.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  crumbs  or  granella  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  a  delicate  brown  and  just  heated  through. 
When  shells  are  used  they  should  be  set  in  a  dripping  pan  and 
baked  on  top  grate  of  oven.  They  must  not  bake  too  long.  If 
the  shells  are  the  lar^e  silver  ones,  they  can  be  prettily  garnished. 
Serve  on  small  plates,  with  delicate  unfermented  bread  and  cel- 
ery if  desired.     Small  patty  pan  shells  of  pie  paste  may  be  used. 

When  this  dish  was  served  at  a  diplomatic  dinner  in  Washing- 
ton, one  of  the  guests  pronounced  it  "sweetbreads"  and  could 
not  be  convinced  to  the  contrary. 

Trumese  and  Celery  A  la  Crdme — Substitute  i%  cup  (l^  pt- 
before  cooking)  stewed  celery  for  the  mushrooms;  or  for 

Tnuneae  and  Haoaroni  &  la  Crdme — Use  i  cup  small  maca- 
roni which  has  been  cooked  withalittlegarlicin  the  water; or  for 

Tramese  and  Oyster  Plant  &  la  CrSme — Take  i  /^  cup  cooked 
oyster  plant,  and  use  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked  in  place 
of  water  for  the  sauce. 

Tnuneae  en  Casserole 

I  qt.  onions,  sliced  or  quartered  iK  cup  water 

I  pt.  turnip  diced  i-2  teaspns.  browned  flour 

I  pt.  carrots,  quartered  and  sliced  7/4-$  teaspns.  salt 

^-i  pt.  celery,  sliced  i  bay  leaf  in  small  pieces 

3  tablespns.  rawnut  butteror  meal  slices   of   broiled 

/i  cup  tomatoes  trumese 

Put  vegetables  in  pudding  dish  in  order  given,  with  a  piece  of 
bay  leaf  occasionally.  Mix  butter,  browned  flour,  salt,  toma- 
toes and  hot  water  and  pour  over  them.  Lay  slices  of  broiled 
trumese  over  all;  cover  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  i-i  %  hour 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.     Set  dish  on  large  plate  or  tray, 


.b,Coo»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — NUTS  167 

pin  folded  napkin  around  and  send  to  table.  If  preferred, 
thicken  liquor  slightly  before  pouring  it  over  the  vegetables, 
and  bake  15  m.  longer. 

if  it  Tnunese  Fie 

Sprinkle  fine  chopped  onion  and  parsley  in  baking  dish  and 
lay  in  slices  of  trumese  (part  nutmese  if  desired).  Repeat  the 
same  until  about  I  lb.  of  trumese  has  been  used.  Sprinkle  last 
with  onion  and  parsley, 

Sattcf — Rub  together  5  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  and  5 
or  6  tablespns.  of  flour.  Add  i  qt.  of  boiling  water,  boil  up, 
add  salt  and  pour  over  trumese.  When  cool  enough,  cover  with 
biscuit  of  universal  crust.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  crust  is  very  light,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  K  of 
an  hour.  Cover  with  paper  or  asbestos  sheet  if  the  crust  be- 
comes brown  before  baking  is  finished.  It  is  well  to  have  some 
extra  sauce  to  serve  with  the  pie.  This  dish  is  a  general  favor- 
ite. Finely-sliced  celery  or  i  teaspn.  of  celery  salt  or  ^  teaspn. 
of  s^e  may  be  substituted  for  the  onion. 

ir  Bice  and  Tnunese  Pie 

Boil  I  cup  of  rice  in  salted  water.  When  done  add  %  cup 
of  milk;  spread  over  above  pie  instead  of  universal  crust  and 
bake  at  once,  covered  most  of  the  time.  Use  the  6  tablespns. 
of  flour  in  making  sauce  for  rice  crust. 

Nicely  seasoned,  not  too  moist  masked  potato^  without  egg, 
may  be  used  for  crust,  A  little  chopped  parsley  mixed  with  the 
potato  makes  it  more  attractive. 

A  pastry  crust  not  quite  SO  rich  as  for  fruit  pies  is  nice  also; 
put  a  small  cup  or  mold  in  the  center  of  the  dish  to  hold  it  up. 

Savory  Sauce  or  Vegetable  Gravy  may  be  poured  over 
chopped  or  sliced  trumese,  and  a  nicely  seasoned  stuffing  used 
for  the  crust,  for  a  difierent  pie.  Slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  may 
be  combined  with  trumese. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


l68  THE    LAUREL 

All  B«adr  Crusts 
When  keeping  house  I  nearly  always  have  on  hand  crusts, 
either  raised  or  pastry,  baked  on  tins  about  the  size  of  my  pud- 
ding dish,  so  that  I  can  lay  them  over  the  top  of  pie  fillings  or  a 
nicely  seasoned  stew  and  just  heat  them  through  in  the  oven. 
Small  pastry  crusts,  the  size  of  individual  dishes,  are  very  con- 
venient sometimes. 

Trumese  Shortcake—Italian  Sauce 

Add  trumese  in  small  dice  to  hot  Italian  sauce;  heat  to 
boiling  and  pour  over  split  hot  shortcake  crust,  in  two  layers. 

Serve  shortcake  on  chop  tray  or  platter,  suitably  garnished. 

Cream  of  mushroom  or  Boundary  Castle  sauce  may  be  used 
the  same. 

Tnuneee  Scallop  with  Cracker  Crumbs 

Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  in  bottom  of  dish  with  chopped  on- 
ion and  the  least  bit  of  powdered  s^e.  Pour  a  little  sauce 
No.  41  over  and  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  minced  trumese. 
Continue  these  layers,  pour  a  larger  quantity  of  sauce  over  the 
last  layer  of  trumese,  then  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  but- 
ter and  bake  till  well  heated  through  and  delicately  browned 
over  the  top. 

Onion  and  sage  may  be  omitted.  Zwieback  crumbs  may  be 
used  instead  of  cracker,  and  sauce  No.  8  or  46  in  place  of  41  for 
other  scalloped  dishes. 

Tmmeae  Pot  Fie 
Well  oil  the  inside  of  a  kettle.  Place  in  it  the  filling  and 
crust  for  trumese  pie,  making  the  sauce  with  i  or  2  tablespns. 
less  of  flour.  When  crust  is  light,  set  the  kettle  covered  tight, 
over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point  let 
it  just  simmer  for  30-35  m,  without  removingthe  cover.  It  may 
be  necessary  to  very  carefully  place  an  asbestos  pad  under  the 
kettle  during  the  latter  part  of  the  cooking.     Serve  with  dump- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — NUTS  I69 

lings  around  edge  of  platter,  and  trumese  with  gravy  in  center. 

The  dumplings  may  be  steamed  on  a  pie  pan  (perforated  if 
convenient)  and  laid  over  the  filling  which  has  been  baked  in  a 
pudding  dish  as  for  trumese  pie. 

A  nicely  seasoned  trumese  stew  may  be  served  with  a  border 
of  small  steamed  dumphngs,  and  other  varieties  of  pot  pie  may 
be  made  according  to  taste  and  convenience. 

ic  Trumese  Boiled  Dinner-New  England  Style 
Raw  nut  butter,  a  little  browned  flour  and  tomato,  salt,  car- 
rots in  1-2  in.  lengths,  according  to  thickness,  turnips  in  sections 
or  thick  slices,  cabbage  in  quarters  or  eighths  according  to  size,  i 
beet  (white  if  possible),  pared  and  cut  into  four  pieces,  onions, 
whole,  cut  at  right  angles  %  of  the  way  up  from  the  root  end, 
potatoes  pared  and  cut  into  equal  sizes,  winter  squash  in  larg;e 
pieces,  pared,  slices  of  broiled  trumese,  parsley. 

Oil  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Mix  in  it  the  nut  butter, 
browned  flour,  salt  and  tomato,  adding  as  much  boiling  water  as 
necessary  to  cook  the  dinner.  When  the  liquid  is  boiling  put 
in  the  cabbage,  carrots,  turnips  and  beet.  In  about  an  hour, 
add  the  onions;  then  in  H  of  an  hour  the  potatoes,  with  the 
squash  laid  inside  down  over  the  whole.  When  all  are  done, 
if  you  have  a  very  large  platter,  lay  pieces  of  squash  around  the 
edge  with  cabbage  overlapping  and  the  other  vegetables  in  the 
center,  with  slices  of  broiled  trumese  around  and  sprays  of  pars- 
ley for  garnish.  The  liquid  remaining  in  the  kettle,  with  a  lit- 
tle water  added  if  nece.ssary,  may  be  strained  and  served  as 
gravy  for  the  vegetables.  The  more  nearly  dry  the  vegetables 
can  cook  without  scorching  the  better,  dut  do  nol  lei  them  scorch. 
The  squash  need  not  be  used,  but  it  would  not  be  a  boiled  din- 
ner to  a  New  Englander  without  it. 

Steamed  dumphngs  may  be  served  with  the  dinner. 

Timbales  of  Bioe—Tmntese  Staffing 
Line  a  well  oiled  mold  %-\    inch  deep  (according  to  size  of 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


I/O  THE    LAUREL 

mold)  with  hot  cooked  rice.  Fill  nearly  to  top  with  mixture  of 
Elsa's  roll,  spread  rice  over  top.  Cover  with  oiled  lid  and 
steam  j4-^  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  sauce  8,  12,  36  or  48,  or 
any  desired  sauce. 

Hot  hominy  grits  (which  have  been  cooked  2-3  hrs.  in  double 
boiler  in  proportion  of  I  cup  of  grits  to  3  of  water)  may  be  used 
in  place  of  rice;  also  cold  boiled  macaroni  chopped  fine,  with  I 
egg  added  to  each  pint  of  macaroni. 

it  Trumead  Timbale— Bonndarr  Castle  Saua« 
1 H  cup  stale  (or  i  good  cup        ^  cup  raw  nut  butter 

dry)  bread  crumbs  %  teaspn.  powdered  bay  leaf 

1  cup  hot  water  J^  teaspn.  powdered  sage 

}4  lb.  trumese  yi-H  teaspn.  salt 

2  eggs 

The  nut  butter  may  be  omitted  and  2  cups  of  stale  {1%  dry) 
crumbs  used.  Use  the  crust  as  well  as  the  center  of  the  loaf  of 
bread.  Soak  crumbs  in  the  water  until  soft,  then  stir  over  the 
fire  until  smooth  and  dry  enough  to  leave  the  sides  of  the  pan. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  add  trumese  chopped  fine,  bay  leaf,  sage, 
salt,  nut  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat  until  well  mixed  and  if 
convenient  rub  through  a  fine  colander,  then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  a  little.  Press  into  a  well  oiled  mold,  which 
may  have  been  garnished  with  truffles,  and  steam  i  H  hour.  Let 
stand  a  moment  after  taking  from  the  steamer,  then  invert  upon 
the  center  of  the  platter.  Serve  with  Boundary  Castle  sauce, 
which  is  the  crowning  feature  of  the  dish. 

The  timbales  may  be  made  in  a  round  mold,  or  in  individual 
molds  and  served  on  a  chop  tray.  Omit  herbs  if  preferred.  If 
truffles  are  used  for  garnishing,  the  cuttings  may  chopped  and 
added  to  the  loaf. 

ir  Tnuuesd  and  Bioe  Timbole,  Boost  or  Loaf 
This   is  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  convenient    prepara- 
tions, and  is  as  delicious  as  it  is  convenient. 


TRUE    MEATS — NUTS  I7I 

2  cups  minced  tnimese  H-}^  cup  of  oil  or  melted  but- 

2  cups  boiled  or  steamed  rice       salt  [ter 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  timbale  mold 
or  brick  shaped  bread  tin,  a  covered  can,  or  individual  molds; 
steam,  or  bake  in  pan  of  water  (covered  until  the  last)  %~i/4 
hour  according  to  size  of  loaf.  Serve  with  creamed  celery,  peas, 
some  of  the  mushroom  sauces,  a  plain  cream  or  any  desired  sauce. 

Bioe  Timbale~T3nimese  and  Asparagus  Tips 
Partly  fill  buttered  timbale  mold,  round  or  oblong,  with  hot, 
nicely  cooked  rice.  Unmold  on  to  tray  or  platter,  surround  with 
slices  of  broiled  trumese  standing  gainst  the  sides  of  the  mold. 
Pour  a  little  drawn  butter  around  on  the  dish,  and  lay  clusters 
of  cooked  asf^ragus  tips  around  the  edge.  Serve  with  plenty  of 
the  sauce.  Sauce  may  be  flavored  with  onion  and  parsley. 
Elsa'a  Boll  of  TmineBe 

3  pts.  minced  trumese  i  cup  cracker  dust  or  gran- 
2  eggs                                            J4  cup  milk  [ella 

salt 

Shape  into  a  large  roll;  bake  J^  hour,  basting  occasionally 
with  oil  or  butter,  and  water.  Serve  with  any  desired  sauce  or 
accompaniment. 

Cannelon  of  Trumese 
I  pt,  minced  trumese  1-3  teaspns.  chopped  onion 

(or  part  nutmese)  i  teaspn.  chopped  parsley 

iH  tablespn.  butter  or  oil  salt 

Form  into  roll,  cover  with  pastry  crust,  fastening  well  at  the 
ends,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  20-30  m.  Serve  with  16,  34 
or  any  desired  sauce.  Shelled  whole  hard  boiled  eggs  may  be 
put  into  the  center  of  the  roll  for  a  novelty,  when  desired. 

Trumese  Bissoles,  Pasties  or  Turnovers 
Cut  pastry  crust  into  circles  the  size  of  a  large  saucer  or  small 
plate.     Lay  a  spoonful  of  the  filling  of  Cannelon  of  Trumese  on 
one  side   of  each;  fold  the  other  side  over  (after  moistening 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


172  THE    LAUREL 

edges)  like  a  turnover.      Bake.       Nice   for   travelling  lunches. 

it  TrameBe  Souffld 

I  pt.  chopped  or  ground  trumese  i  tablespn.  butter 

1  cup  milk  4  eggs 

2  tablespns.  flour  i  teaspu.  salt 

Stir  flour  smooth  with  part  of  the  milk,  heat  the  remainder  to 
boiling,  add  flour  and  cook  until  thickened.  Remove  from  fire  and 
add  butter,  trumese,  salt  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  then  chop  in 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Put  into  baking  dish,  custard  cups  or 
molds.  Set  into  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  (covered  part  of  the 
time  with  oiled  paper)  in  slow  oven  20-30  m.,  or  until  firm  in 
the  center.      J^  nutmese  may  be  used. 

ir  Trumese  Croquettes 
H  lb.  trumese  i  tablespn.  grated  onion 

H  teaspn.  celery  salt,  or  ^  teaspn.  powdered  sage 

1/4  tablespn.  fine  cut  celery         2  teaspns.  chopped  parsley 

Chop  trumese  fine,  mix  with  other  ingredients,  stand  in  cool 
place  until  sauce  is  made. 

Sauce — 2  tablespns.  oil  2  tablespns.  grated  onion 

^  cup  browned  flour  No.  I      i  teaspn.  browned  flour  No. 3 
%  cup  white  flour  %  cup  strained  tomato 

I  teaspn.  salt 
Mix  onion,  browned  flour  No.  3,  salt  and  tomato  in  pint  meas- 
ure, fill  the  measure  with  boiling  water.  Heat  the  oil,  rub  half 
the  flour  into  it,  add  the  boiling  liquid,  and  when  smooth,  add 
the  remainder  of  the  flour,  stirring  well;  cook  thoroughly  over  a 
slow  fire.  Remove  from  fire,  chop  in  lightly  the  trumese  mix- 
ture and  cool.  When  cold,  shape  into  rolls  about  three  inches 
long  and  i  inch  in  diameter,  roll  in  fine  toasted  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  e^  and  roll  ^ain  in  crumbs.  Bake  in 
quick  oven  10  m.,  or  until  croquettes  begin  to  crack  a  little  and 
are  a  delicate  brown.  If  baked  too  long,  or  if  they  stand  long 
after  baking  they  will  lose  their  shape.  Serve  plain,  or  with 
mushroom  sauce,  or  jelly,  or  jellied  cranberries,  or  with  peas 
creamed,  or  seasoned  with  butter  and  salt   only.     Well   made 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — NUTS  173 

croquettes  require  no  sauce,     I  sometimes  plan  to  have  creamed 
potatoes  with  trumese  croquettes. 

This  quantity  will  make  twelve  croquettes.  They  may  be 
shaped  into  cones  if  preferred. 

In  making  more  than  once  the  recipe,  use  a  little  extra  flour, 
as  the  evaporation  is  less  in  proportion.  One  secret  of  success 
with  croquettes  is  to  have  the  mixture  as  soft  as  possible  to  shape. 
In  shaping,  drop  the  soft  mixture  on  to  thecrum^sbyspoonfuls, 
lift  carefully  from  beneath  (so  as  not  to  get  any  of  the  crumbs 
inside  the  croquettes),  and  shape  deftly  with  the  fingers;  then 
roll  in  the  crumbs,  taking  care  that  the  ends  are  well  covered. 
Drop  from  one  hand  to  the  other  to  remove  the  loose  crumbs 
and  lay  croquettes  on  a  plate  or  board  until  all  are  crumbed  the 
first  time.  (With  some  mixtures,  the  fingers  may  be  dipped  in 
oil  and  the  croquettes  shaped  neatly  before  putting  into  the 
crumbs).  For  dipping,  have  eggs  beaten  slightly  with  salt  and 
water,  i  teaspn.  of  water  to  each  egg.  Dip  the  croquettes  into 
the  mixture  with  the  left  hand  only,  see  that  the  ends  are  mois- 
tened with  the  egg,  drop  on  to  a  flat  dish  of  crumbs,  with  the 
right  hand  roll  them  until  they  are  well  covered,  and  lay  on  to 
the  pans  in  which  they  are  to  be  baked. 

All  ready  croquettes  may  be  kept  in  a  cold  place  for  a  day  or 
two  before  baking  when  necessary. 

ir  Trumese  Croquettes  No.  2 

Chop  or  grind  trumese  to  make  ^-i  qt.  Add  i}^-2  teaspns. 
salt,  2  tablespns.  each  chopped  parsley  and  grated  onion.  Fine 
cut  celery  may  be  used  instead  of  onion. 

Sauce — Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  s}4  tablespns.  of  flour  and 
2-3  of  butter  or  oil.  Pour  i  pt.  of  boiling  milk  over  slowly, 
stirring.  Boil  well,  add  trumese,  mix,  cool.  When  cold,  form 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  bake. 

i(  Brother  Bamett's  Bavory  Trumese  and  Bice  Croquettes 

UserecipeforTrumeseandRiceTimbale,p.  170.  Flavor  with  sage 


t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


174  'THE    LAUREL 

or  winter  savory,  shape  into  croquettes,  bake.  Serve  with  sauce 
4,  9,  12,  44  or  54.  You  will  be  surprised  to  see  how  nice  these 
are.  Cooked  hominy  grits  or  chopped  boiled  macaroni  may  be 
used  in  place  of  rice. 

BuBsian  Croquettes 

Cover  small  rolls  of  Elsa's  roll,  p.171,  or  of  filling  for  cannelon 
of  trumese,  p.  171,  with  pastry  crust.  Bake.  Serve  with  eighths 
of  red  apples,  sections  of  orange  or  with  baked  bananas,  or  with 
any  suitable  sauce  or  vegetable. 

ir  Trumese  and  Potato  Hash 

Put  trumese  and  double  the  quantity  of  cold  potatoes  (those 
cooked  in  their  jackets  until  nearly  tender  being  ideal)  through 
food  cutter,  using  next  to  the  coarsest  cutter.  (If  chopping  by 
hand,  be  sure  not  to  chop  too  fine,  especially  the  potatoes.) 
Mix  carefully.  Simmer wi/Aoui  browning,  choppedonion  in  oil. 
Add  the  mixed  trumese  and  potato,  pour  consomm^  or  nicely 
seasoned  gravy  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat,  and  brown 
over  the  top.  If  obliged  to  finish  on  top  of  the  stove,  set  back, 
on  an  asbestos  pad,  and  heat  slowly,  covered. 

The  onion  may  be  mixed  with  the  trumese  and  potato,  all  put 
into  a  baking  dish,  nut  butter  stirred  to  a  cream  with  consomm^ 
poured  over  and  the  hash  baked  for  %-\  hour.  Finely-sliced 
celery,  celery  salt,  or  any  of  the  sweet  herbs,  powdered,  may  be 
substituted  for  the  onion.  Sage  may  be  used  occasionally  with 
the  onion. 

Trumese  and  Bioe  Hash 

Use  boiled  or  steamed  rice  in  place  of  potato  in  the  preceding 
recipe. 

NUTHEBE 
J4  lb.  Virginia  peanuts,  raw  2  teaspns.  salt 

I  lb.  Virginia  peanuts, cooked  ^i  cup  water 

Grind  both  cooked  and  raw  nuts  into  butter,  add  salt  and 
water,  mix  well,  put  into  oiled  tins.     Steam  5  hrs.  or  bake  i  hr. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS NUTS  175 

in  alow  oven  on  asbestos  pad.     May  cook  in  sealed  glass  jars, 
following  directions  p.  156,  for  trumese  in  glass  jars. 
Use  a  trifle  less  water  for  Spanish  peanuts. 
Cereal  coffee  or  consomm4  may  be  used  in  place  of  water. 
All  ready   prepared   foods   similar   to    nutmese   are  variously 
named  "nuttolene",  "nutmete"  "nutcysa"  and  "nut  loaf,"  ac- 
cording to  where  they  are  made. 

Tomato  Huttnese 
K  lb.  Virginia  peanuts,  raw  S-s!^  tablespns.  thick  tomato 

I  lb.  Virginia  peanuts,  cooked  pulp  (strained  tomato 

2teaspns.  salt  cooked  down) 

Cook  same  as  nutmese,  having  oven  very  slow  in  baking. 

Comstaroli  NntmeBe 
The  following  recipe  makes  a  very  palatable  preparation  for 
those  who  can  use  the  starch;  but  meat  substitutes  should  be 
made  without  starch. 

3  cups  raw  Spanish  nut  meal,  Z-3%  teaspns.  salt 

or  coarse  butter  i  cup  cold  water 

I  cup  cornstarch  3  cups  boiling  water 

Stir  dry  ingredients  with  the  cold  water,  then  add  the  boiling 
water  gradually,  stirring.  Cook  the  same  as  nutmese.  Use  a 
little  more  water  with  Virginia  nuts.  See  suggestion  p.  155, 
for  using  starch  washed  out  of  gluten  dough,  in  place  of  corn 
starch. 

NUTUESE  DISHES 

Nutmese  of  nuts  only,  is  suitable  to  serve  with  breads  of  all 
kinds  instead  of  butter.  It  takes  the  place  of  cheese  nicely  with 
apple  pie  and  may  be  served  sliced,  with  Chili,  apple,  grape  and 
different  fruit  sauces  or  with  jelly. 

NDbnese  Cottage  Cheese 

Take  the  broken  pieces  of  nutmese  left  from  slicing,   press 

them  through  a  wire  strainer,  add  salt  and  enough  lemon  juice 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


176  THE    LAUREL 

to  give  the  slight  tartness  of  cottage  cheese.  Use  plenty  of  salt 
and  not  too  much  lemon  juice.  Mix  well  and  press  through  the 
strainer  again.     Shape  into  balls  and  roll  in  chopped  parsley. 

Carefully    Broiled  Nutmeae  may  be  served  with  creamed  pars- 
nips or  celery  on  toast,  or  with  mint  sauce,   tomato  and  tomato 
cream  sauce,  and  nearly  all  the  sauces  and  vegetables  with  which 
trumese  is  served.     It  is  especially  nice  with  green  peas. 
Tomato  Nutmese  &Dd  Eggs 

Lay  %  inch  slices  of  broiled  tomato  nutmese  on  thin  pieces 
of  toast  of  the  same  shape  and  place  a  soft  poached  egg  on  each. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

Use  soft  scrambled  eggs  instead  of  poached  sometimes. 
HutmeBe  and  Bioe  witb  Peas  Sauoe 

Add  chopped  parsley  and  cooked  green  peas  to  tomato  cream 
sauce  which  has  been  flavored  with  onion,  and  pour  sauce  over 
a  low,  rocky  mound  of  rice  surrounded  by  broiled  nutmese. 

N'utmese  with  Baked  Beans 

Score  nutmese  of  the  desired  shape,  on  one  side.  Broil  the 
scored  side  carefully  and  set  in  the  oven  to  just  warm  through. 
Place  in  center  of  platter,  pile  baked  beans  around  and  garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon.  Nutmese  made  in  an  oblong,  square- 
cornered  tin  would  be  very  suitable  in  shape. 

String  beans  which  have  been  cooked  whole  with  raw  nut 
butter  in  the  water  may  be  used  in  place  of  baked  beans,  and 
French  dressing  or  Sauce  Am^ricaine  poured  over. 

ic  Hatmese  Outlets  are  made  the  same  as  trumese  cutlets, 
p.  162,  except  that  nutmese  cutlets  are  better  with  graneila 
than  with  bread  crumbs. 

if  Nut  iFiah  8tew~a  anivenat  favorite 

In  2  qts.  of  salted  water  to  which  have  been  added  4  or  5 
tablespns.  of  raw  nut  butter,  cook  from  4-6   large   onions  sliced 

U.q,t,zc,b,CjOO»^IC 


TRUE   MEATS — NUTS  177 

thin,  and  3  pts.  to  2  qts.  of  potato  cut  into  irregular  pieces  about 
an  inch  in  diameter. 

When  the  potatoes  have  cooked  enough  to  give  a  little  con- 
sistency to  the  stew,  drop  in  pieces  of  nutmese  in  strips  about 
ij4  in.  long  and  ^  in.  thick.     Heat  without  stirring.     Serve. 

Kotmese  in  Cream  of  Tomato  Saooe 
makes  a  delightful  stew.     It  may  be  served  alone,  on  toast,  in 
rice  border,  or  in  mashed  bean  border.     Cut  nutmese  into  dice 
and  add  to  sauce  just  long  enough  before  serving  to  heat  through. 
Do  not  stir. 

Add  nutmese  to  Cream  of  Spinach  soup  when  you  have  some 
left  over  and  you  have  an  enjoyable  meat  dish  with  very  little 
trouble. 

Nutmese  and  Qreen  Peas  witb  New  Potatoes 
Serve  in  cream  or  drawn  butter  sauce.     Old  potatoes  cut  in 
small  pieces  may  be  used. 

Nutmese  ft  la  Crdme 
^  lb.  nutmese  3  hard  boiled  eggs 

Break  nutmese  into  irregular  pieces  with  a  fork  and  mix  it  with 
the  eggs,  chopped  coarse  and  %  teaspn.  salt. 

Sau^e— 

}i  cup  oil  or  melted  butter  water  to  leave  stiff,  about  i  pt. 

ii-%  cup  chopped  onion  i  egg,  or  the  yolk  only 

}^  cup  flour  I  teaspn.  chopped  parsley 

salt 

Add  onion  to  hot  oil  and  simmer  slowly  without  browning,  for 
10  m.  Add  flour,  rub  smooth,  pour  on  hot  water,  stir  until 
smooth  and  well  cooked.  Remove  from  fire,  add  parsley,  salt 
and  beaten  egg.  Put  sauce,  and  nutmese  with  e^s,  into  pud- 
ding dish,  in  layers,  with  sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
corn  meal  or  browned  flour  No.  i.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
bubbling  all  through  and  delicately  browned  on  top. 

We  sometimes  use  a  little  garlic,  and  sometimes  a  tittle  cream 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


178  THE    LAUREL 

with  a  very  little  strained  tomato  in  the  sauce.  Another  is 
made  with  the  following  sauce  and  finished  the  same  as  the 
preceding : 

Sauce  No.  2 — Rub  %  cup  pastry  flour  smooth  with  water; 
pour  it  gradually  into  i  pt.  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  until  smooth. 
Pour  this  over  2  beaten  e^s  or  yolks  only.  Add  i  teaspn.  each 
chopped  onion  and  parsley,  and  %-\  teaspn.  salt. 

The  sauce  must  be  very  stiff  or  the  character  of  the  dish  is 
spoiled. 

A  tablespn.  of  butter  may  be  added  when  the  sauce  is  taken 
from  the  fire,  if  desired  richer. 

ITutmeBe  and  Oyster  Flant  in  Shells 

Use  nutmese  and  oyster  plant  in  place  of  trumese  and  mush- 
rooms, in  Trumese  and  Mushrooms  k  la  CrSme,  and  the  liquor 
in  which  the  oyster  plant  was  cooked  instead  of  water  in  the 
sauce. 

Soallop  of  Nutmese  and  Tomato 

Layers  of  crumbs,  thin  slices  of  nutmese  and  tomato  sauce  or 
tomato  cream  sauce,  or  slices  of  tomato  and  a  thick  cream  sauce; 
have  sauce  on  top,  sjH'inkle  with  crumbs,  bake. 

Use  chopped  or  grated  onion  with  tomato  if  desired.  Sauce 
Imperial  may  be  used. 

it  Nntmese  and  Com 

Place  nicely  seasoned,  canned  or  grated  fresh  corn  in  layers 
with  dice  or  small  pieces  of  nutmese.  Sprinkle  with  cracker 
dust  or  browned  flour  No.  i.  Heat  in  moderate  oven,  This 
simple  dish  is  very  pleasing. 

Nntmese  Pie  with  Potato  Crust 

Prepare  nutmese  pie  the  same  as  trumese  pie,  p.  167.  Cover 
with  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potato.  Pour  a  little  cream,  oil  or 
melted  butter  over  and  bake  until  top  is  delicately  browned. 

Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  or,  chopped  parsley  may  be 


TRUE    MEATS — NUTS  179 

mixed  with  the  potato.      Universal  or  rice  crust  may  be  used. 

Hasbed  Potato  Croat  for  Nutmese 
Use  sauce  No.  9  with  autmese  and  cover  with  well  seasoned 
hashed  or  hashed  creamed  potatoes  and  brown  in  oven. 

Natmese  and  Potato  Pie  with  Pastry  Gnut 
Use  sauce  43  or  14  with  or  without  sage  and  onion,  drop  into 
it  chunks  or  slices  of  fresh  boiled  potato,  lay  thin  slices  of  nut- 
mese  over,  cover  with  pastry  crust  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Apple  and  Nutmese  Fie 
Make  the  same  as  apple  pie,  using  enough  less  apple  to  make 
room  for  a  layer  of  nutmese,  and  only  about  half  as  much  sugar. 
Serve  for  luncheon  or  early  supper, 

Nutmese  Croquettes  or  Patttes 
Use  nutmese  in  recipe  of  trumese  croquettes,  No.  2,     Shape 
into  patties  if  preferred.     Serve  with  green  peas  or  on  a  bed  of 
mashed  turnip  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Nutmese  may  be  used  instead  of  trumese  in  many  dishes  not 
mentioned. 

TBUHESE  AND  NUTMESE  DISHES 
Hut  Fricassee 
Put  equal  quantities  of  trumese  and  nutmese  in  small  pieces 
into  baking  dish.      Pour  nut  and  tomato  bisque,  p.  93,  over  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

ir  Nut  Fricassee  with  Bigatoni 
i-iji  cup  rigatoni  2  or  3  inferior  stalks  of  celery 

1  lb.  nutmese  with  tops  on 

H-i  lb.  trumese  nut  butter,  flour 

Make  a  thin  nut  gravy,  simmer  in  it  the  stalks  of  celery, 
bruised  and  tied  together  (for  convenience),  and  the  cooked 
rigatoni.      When  the  sauce  is  well  flavored,   remove  the  celery 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


l80  THE   LAUREL 

and  add  the  nut  meats  cut  into  convenient  pieces;  and  lastly, 
a  little  cream. 

Rigatoni  is  macaroni  in  large,  round,  corrugated  pieces. 

A  few  green  peas  may  be  served  on  each  plate  with  the 
fricassee. 

ir  Nat  Com  Padding 

Put  layers  of  sliced  trumese  and  nutmese  in  baking  dish  and 
sprinkle  finely-sliced  celery  between.  Cover  with  green  corn 
pudding,  p.  ii6,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  20-30  m.  in 
moderate  oven.  If  canned  corn  is  used  bake  only  long  enough 
to  heat  through  and  brown  over  the  top.     Serve  at  once. 

Nat  Faatry  Pie 
Line  as  deep  a  pie  pan  as  you  have  with  a  rich  pastry  crust; 
cover  the  bottom  with  a  thin  layer  of  cold  drawn  butter,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  onion  and  parsley  and  lay  on  very  thin  slices  of  tru- 
mese andnutmese.  Fill  the  pan  in  this  way.  Coverwith  crustas 
for  fruit  pies  and  bake.  Slip  on  to  chop  tray  and  garnish  with 
parsley  or  spinach  leaves.  Cut  the  same  as  fruit  pies  and  serve 
with  drawn  butter.  The  pie  may  be  sent  to  the  table  in  the 
pan  in  which  it  was  baked.  It  may  be  served  as  a  complete 
course,  or  with  celery,  jelly,  or  small  boiled  onions.  It  may  also 
constitute  the  principal  dish  of  a  luncheon. 

•k  Cream  Timbales  of  Trumese  and  Nutmese 

i4  cup  each  minced  nutmese  J^  cup  milk 

and  trumese  5  tablespns.  heavy  cream 

1  cup  soft  white  bread  crumbs  whites  oi  five  eggs 

Put  the  bread  crumbs  and  milk  in  a  sauce  pan  or  double  boiler 
over  the  fire,  stir  until  smooth.  Remove  from  the  fire,  cool, 
add  trumese  and  nutmese  which  have  been  rubbed  to  a  cream 
tc^ether.-  Stir  all  very  smooth.  Add  salt  and  cream  and  rub 
through  a  fine  colander.  Chop  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Put  into  small  timbale  molds  which  have  rounds  of  but- 
tered paper  in  the  bottom,  decorated  with  truffles  or  not.     Set 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PROTOSE  TIMBALE  WITH  INDIVIDUAL  SPINACH  SOUFFLE! 


NL'T  PASTRY  T 


ovGoo<^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


TRUE   MEATS — ROASTS  iSl 

in  pan  of  hot  (not  boiling)  water.  Cover  with  oiled  paper  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  about  20  m.,  or  until  firm  in  the  center. 
Remove  molds  from  water,  carefully.  Let  stand  a  moment. 
Invert  on  to  thin  rounds  of  toast  and  place  in  center  of  chop 
tray  or  platter.  Surround  with  tiny  molds  of  jelly,  button 
mushrooms,  green  peas,  or  small  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream  sauce, 
according  to  the  sauce  to  be  served  with  them,  whether  a  cream 
or  creamed  mushroom  sauce. 

Trumese  alone  may  be  used  for  the  timbales. 

BOASTS 

Roasts  are  among  the  most  popular  of  vegetarian  dishes.  In 
the  home,  in  sanitariums  and  in  our  vegetarian  restaurants  they 
are  always  in  demand.  Except  soups  there  are  no  dishes  that 
we  are  so  often  asked  to  give  the  recipes  for  as  our  roasts.  We 
always  plan  to  have  left-overs  that  will  be  good  for  them,  as 
the  proper  combination  of  different  ingredients  is  very  satisfying, 
and  richer  flavors  are  often  developed  by  reheating  foods. 

When  we  start  to  make  a  roast,  we  gather  up  the  suitable 
ingredients:  for  instance,  a  few  baked  beans  or  mashed  lentils, 
a  little  cold  boiled  rice,  some  tomato  macaroni,  a  nut  cutlet  or 
two,  perhaps  one  or  two  croquettes,  a  spoonful  or  so  of  tomato, 
some  boiled  onions,  a  few  peas  or  string  beans  or  baked  peanuts, 
may  be  a  little  corn,  and  the  vegetables  strained  out  of  a  soup 
from  the  day  before;  throwing  them  one  after  another  into  a 
pan.  Then  we  often  add  a  handful  of  nut  meats,  chopped  or 
whole,  a  little  sage,  sometimes  sliced  celery  or  chopped  onion, 
occasionally  a  little  browned  flour;  never  potatoes  unless  an  in- 
finitesimal quantity.  Then  we  scatter  over  some  coarse  bread 
or  zwieback  crumbs  or  granella  and  pour  on  consomm6,  broth  or 
gravy,  some  soup  we  happen  to  have,  or  water,  and  add  one  or 
more  beaten  eggs,  according  to  the  number  and  size  of  the 
loaves;  just  enough  to  hold  the  ingredients  together.  The  e^s 
may  be  omitted,  but  we  are  more  sure  that  the  roast  will  turn 


zcob,CjOO»^lc 


I83  THE   LAUREL 

out  of  the  tin  well  without  being  too  solid,  by  using  them;  then, 
too,  they  add  to  the  nutritive  value  of  the  roast. 

Mix  well,  but  not  to  pastiness,  adding  more  crumbs  or  liquid 
as  required  to  make  a  rather  soft  mixture.  Allowance  must  be 
made  for  the  swelling  of  the  crumbs,  if  they  are  very  dry,  and 
the  thickening  of  the  eggs.  More  salt  may  be  necessary  but  not 
much  if  the  foods  were  seasoned  before.  The  roast  should 
not  be  as  salt  as  the  gravy  that  is  to  be  served  with  it. 

When  of  the  desired  consistency  put  the  mixture  into  well 
oiled  molds  or  brick  shaped  tins,  taking  care  that  the  corners 
are  well  filled.  Brush  the  tops  with  oil  or  melted  butter  or 
pour  a  little  thin  cream  over.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a 
dripping  pan  or  covered  baker  without  water  until  the  roast  is 
well  heated  through  and  the  eggs  set,  then  pour  boiling  water 
into  the  baker,  cover  and  bake  for  an  hour  or  so  longer.  Re- 
move from  oven,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  invert  on  platter, 
lifting  mold  carefully,  garnish,  and  send  to  table  with  a  suitable 
sauce.  Some  .of  the  meaty  flavored  sauces  are  most  appropriate. 
The  pieces  of  nut  meat  in  the  roast  add  much  to  the  pleasure  of 
masticating  it.  Roasts  may  be  warmed  over  by  setting  in  pan 
of  hot  water  in  the  oven. 

Outlets  of  Boast 

Cut  cold  roast  into  not  too  thin  slices.  Hgg  and  crumb,  or 
flour  only.  Bake  or  broil  and  serve  with  or  without  a  sauce. 
Some  such  accompaniment  as  stewed  onions  or  carrots  is  enjoy- 
able.    Cutlets  may  be  served  on  a  bed  of  pilau. 

Below   are   given    the    ingredients   of  a  few  roasts  that  were 
made  in  a  small  institution  at  different  times. 
No.  1 

Some  macaroni  strained  out  of  the  soup  from  the  day  before, 
a  little  nutmese  k  la  creme,  some  trumese  cutlets,  hard  boiled 
eggs,  a  little  nutmese,  s^e,  crumbs,  eggs,  consomm^.  The 
nutmese  was  put  in  the  center  of  the  loaf  in  a  layer. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — ROASTS  I  83 

No.  3 
Stewed  red   kidney  beans  ground,   e^    macaroni  ground,  dry 
zwieback   ground,    a   few   nuts,    eg^,    consomm^,    nutmese   in 
layers.     Served  with  Sauce  Imperial. 

No.  3 
Baked   peanuts,    rice,    garlic,    a   little  melted  butter,  savory 
tomato  gravy  (made  with  tomato.   Chili  sauce,  bay  leaf  and  a 
little  cream)  a  very  Uttle  sage,  eggs,  crumbs,  soup. 

No.  4 
Macaroni,  rice,  peas  pur6e,  trumese  cutlets,  some  trumese  in 
tomato,  and  nutmese,  laid   in   the   center  of   the    loaf.     Sage, 
eggs,  crumbs,  soup. 

Brazil  Nut  and  Lentil  Boaat 

3  cups  coarse,  dry  bread  crumbs  i  H  cup  chopped  Brazil  nut 

3  cups  mashed  lentils  { i  J4  cup  2  teaspns.  salt  [meats 

before  cooking)  a  cups  hot  water 

Mix  all  ingredients,  using  more  or  less  water  according  to 
dryness  of  crumbs.  Press  into  brick  shaped  tin  or  any  con- 
venient mold;  brush  with  oil  or  cover  with  thin  cream.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  well  heated  through,  then  set  in  pan  of 
hot  water,  cover  and  finish  baking.  Serve  with  sauce  6.  9.  10. 
16  or  17.  Flavorings  of  onion  and  browned  flour,  or  of  sage 
may  be  used  if  desired. 

Rice  and  stewed  lentils  are  good  ingredients  for  the  foundation 
of  a  roast. 

Blaok  Walnut  Boast 

5  cups  medium  dry  bread  i  %  teaspn.  sage  or  winter 

crumbs  savory 

2  cups  coarse  chopped  black  i  J4  teaspn.  salt 

walnut  meats  2/4  cups  hot  water 

Bake  as  Brazil  nut  and  lentil   roast.     Serve   with   sauce    16. 

17  or  45. 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


1 84  THE   LAUREL 

LBOUHES 

The  mature,  dry  seeds  only  are  considered  under  this  head. 

Legumes —  peas,  beans  and  lentils  form  an  important  part  of 
the  vegetarian  dietary,  containing  as  they  do  a  so  much  lai^er 
proportion  of  the  muscle-building  material  than  flesh  meats,  and 
being  at  the  same  time  inexpensive. 

Another  advantage  is  that  they  are  grown  in  considerable  va- 
riety in  nearly  all  countries. 

We  have  beans — white,  large  and  small;  colored,  of  all  shades 
and  sizes;  peas — dry,  green  and  yellow,  split  and  whole,  chick 
peas  and  other  varieties;  lentils — German  or  Austrian,  red  or 
Egyptian.     The  ground  nut  or  peanut  is  also  a  legume. 

Chick  peas  are  found  in  the  Italian  groceries  or  macaroni 
stores.     They  have  a  rich  flavor  peculiar  to  themselves. 

The  Soy  bean,  most  common  in  China  and  India,  has  almost 
no  starch  and  is  richer  in  oil  than  any  other  legume. 

The  legumes  require  a  prolonged,  slow  cooking  to  render  them 
digestible  and  to  develop  their  rich  flavors.  The  hulls  of  some 
are  difficult  of  digestion.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  surest 
rubbing  legumes  through  a  colander  in  so  many  recipes.  Exper- 
iments have  proven,  also,  that  a  larger  percentage  of  their  nu- 
tritive value  is  assimilated  when  the  hulls  are  excluded. 

Parboiling  causes  beans  to  be  flat  and  tasteless;  then  the  need 
is  felt  of  a  piece  of  pork  or  at  least  a  lump  of  butter;  while  if 
they  are  put  at  once,  without  soaking,  into  the  water  .in  which 
they  are  to  be  cooked,  their  own  rich,  characteristic  flavor 
(which  nothing  can  replace)  will  be  retained. 

The  large,  dark  flowering  beans  and  a  few  other  colored  ones 
are  exceptions,  and  should  be  parboiled,  as  their  flavor  is  so  rich 
that  it  may  be  denominated  "strong." 

Nearly  all  legumes  for  stewing  or  baking  should  be  put  into 
boiling  salted  water  (most  authorities  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing), to  keep  them  from  cooking  to  pieces  and  to  preserve 
their  color  and  flavor.     In  sections  where  the  altitude  is  great, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — LEGUMES  I85 

however,  legumes  must  be  soaked  for  several  hours  and  be  put 
to  cooking  in  cold,  soft  water;  even  then  a  longer  time  will  be 
required  for  cooking  than  nearer  the  sea  level. 

The  water  may  be  rendered  soft  by  boiling  and  settling,  if 
necessary,  Soft  or  distilled  water  will  cause  legumes  to  be  more 
digestible  at  any  altitude.  Rain  water  is  the  very  best.  Most 
legumes  about  double  in  bulk  in  cooking. 

ii  Mashed  Lentils 

"Rice  is  good,  but  lentils  are  my  life." — Hindu  proverb. 

Do  not  waste  time  by  looking  lentils  over  by  handfuts,  but 
put  them  into  a  large,  flat  colander,  give  them  a  shake  or  two  to 
remove  the  fine  dirt,  slide  them  to  one  side  of  the  colander, 
then  with  the  fingers  draw  a  few  at  a  time  toward  you,  looking 
for  particles  of  sand  or  gravel.  Pick  these  out  but  do  not  pay 
any  attention  to  the  wheat,  chaff  or  poor  lentils.  Those  will 
come  out  in  the  washing  in  much  less  time  than  it  takes  to  pick 
them  out  and  if  a  grain  or  two  of  wheat  is  left  it  will  do  no  harm. 

When  you  are  sure  all  the  gravel  is  out,  set  the  colander  into 
a  dish  pan  and  pour  cold  water  over  the  lentils.  Stir  with  the 
hand  until  all  but  the  waste  matter  has  settled  to  the  bottom; 
then  carefully  pour  the  water  off.  Repeat  the  process  until  all 
objectionable  substances  are  removed.  Rinse  the  colander  up 
and  down  in  water,  drain  the  lentils  and  put  immediately  into  a 
lai^e  quantity  of  boiHng  water  in  a  broad-bottomed  vessel.  (The 
shape  of  the  utensil  has  much  to  do  with  the  drying  out  without 
scorching.) 

I^t  the  lentils  boil  fast  for  a  short  time,  then  simmer  without 
stirring.  If  they  are  stirred  after  they  begin  to  soften  they  will 
scorch.  Now  keep  the  vessel  over  a  slow,  even  fire  until  the 
lentils  are  well  dried  out.  The  drying  may  be  finished  in  the 
oven  if  the  dish  is  covered  so  the  lentils  will  not  become  hard 
on  the  top.  This  drying  is  imperative.  It  develops  a  rich  flavor 
that  we  do  not  get  without  it. 


.b,Coot^lc 


1 86  THE   LAUREL 

When  well  dried,  add  a  little  water  and  rub  the  lentils,  a  few 
at  a  time,  through  a  fine  colander  with  a  potato  masher.  (Do 
not  deceive  yourself  by  thinking  that  you  can  get  along  faster  by 
putting  a  large  quantity  into  the  colander  at  once.) 

Throw  the  hulls  into  a  dish  of  boiling  water.  At  the  last, 
stir  the  hulls  well  and  rub  again  in  the  colander,  reserving  what 
goes  through  this  time  for  soups  and  gravies. 

When  all  the  lentils  are  through  the  colander  (of  course  care 
should  be  taken  to  keep  them  hot  during  the  process),  add  plenty  of 
salt  and  beat  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Keep  hot  in  a  double 
boiler,  covered,  till  serving  time.  Beat  again  just  before  serv- 
ing. Serve  piled  in  rocky  form  or  in  smooth  mound  on  hot  plat- 
ter (or  in  a  hot  covered  dish  if  to  be  long  on  the  table),  with  dif- 
ferent garnishes;  a  wreath  of  celery  tops,  sprays  of  parsley  or 
chervil,  spinach  leaves  or  cooked  vegetables.  Serve  with  sauce 
i6,  17.  53  or  54. 

Do  not  be  afraid  of  the  simple  dishes;  they  are  the  best. 
Hashed  LentUa— Bioe 

Make  well  in  center  of  lentil  mound  and  fill  with  sauce  8,  53 
or  54.    Surround  mound  with  hot  boiled  rice ;  garnish  with  green. 
it  Hashed  Peas 

Prepare  dried  green  peas  the  same  as  mashed  lentils.  Serve 
with  sauce  16,  17,  18,  21,  22,  57  or  59. 

Sauce  I,  flavored  or  not,  combines  nicely  with  peas.     Serve 
mashed  peas  and  rice  with  sauce  16  sometimes. 
Hashed  Beans 

Sauce  16,  r8,  19,  34,  57,  58  or  72,  or  Mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing  are  all  suitable  for  mashed  beans.  Some  beans  will  all 
go  through  the  colander  in  mashing. 

if  Tari^^ted  Heat 

Put  different  colored  mashed  legumes,  for  instance,  red  and 
white  beans,  or  red  and  white  beans  and  green  peas,  lentils  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — LEGUMES  1 87 

white  beans  (sometimes  red  beans  also),  green  peas  and  red 
beans,  yellow  peas  and  red  or  black  beans,  or  green  and  yellow 
peas,  red  and  and  white  kidney  beans  and  green  peas,  or  red  and 
black  beans  with  green  peas  into  a  mold  or  a  brick-shaped  tin 
dipped  in  cold  water,  in  straight  or  irregular  layers.  Press  down 
close,  cover  and  set  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Unmold  and 
shoe,  or,  send  loaf  to  table  whole  on  platter  garnished  with  let- 
tuce or  spinach  leaves.  Pass  Improved  Mayonnaise  (with 
chopped  parsley)  or  French  dressing,  olive  oil  or  Chili  sauce. 
This  makes  a  good  summer  Sabbath  dinner  dish. 

The  Salad  Entree  dressing  is  delightful  with  mashed  legumes. 

ic  Peaa  Fie— Com  Omat 

Cms/ — 2  cans  (i  qt.,  16 ears)  of  corn  2  or  3  eggs 

not  very  moist  I  cup  milk 

salt 

Beat  e^s,  add  corn,  milk  and  salt. 

Put  mashed  green  peas  in  oiled  baking  dish,  cover  with  crust, 
bake  only  till  the  eggs  in  the  crust  are  set;  serve  at  once.     No 


Lentil  Pie—Potato  Crust 
Cover   mashed   lentils  in  baking  dish   with   nicely  seasoned 
mashed  potato,  brown  in  oven;  serve  with  sauce  6,  16,  49,  51, 
53  or  54- 

Lentil  Pie-Universal  Crust 
Mashed  lentils,  not  too  drj-,  flavored  with  browned  flour  and 
chopped  onion,  a  little  sage  also  if  desired,  with  universal  crust. 
Serve  with  sauce  l,  l6,  43  or  53.,     A  rich  pastry  crust  may  be 
used. 

Mashed  Peas—Maoaronl  or  Termioelli 
Cook  macaroni  or  vermicelli  with  garlic,  or  onion  and  garlic. 
Put  into  thick  cream  sauce  and  serve  around  rocky  mound  of 
mashed  pens. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


THE    LAUREL 


Creamed  Beans 


I  pint  white  heans  I  large  cup  milk 

I  tablespn.  butter  i  teaspn.  salt 

I  tablespn.  flour  2  eggs 
crumbs 

Cook  and  mash  beans  according  to  directions  for  mashed  len- 
tils; add  salt,  and  cream  sauce  made  with  butter,  flour  and  milk; 
then  eggs  beaten.  Turn  into  oiled  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
with  crumbs,  bake  a  delicate  brown,  serve  at  once.  The  e^s 
maj'  be  omitted  but  the  beans  are  delightfully  light  with  them. 

Colored  beans,  peas  and  lentils  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

Iieiitila~Poaohed  Eggs 

Spread  a  half-inch  layer  of  mashed  lentils  on  slightly  mois- 
tened rounds  of  toast  and  place  a  nicely  poached  egg  on  each. 
Garnish. 

Bean  Croquettes 

Shape  dry  mashed  beans  into  thick  croquettes  (oiling  the  hands 
or  dipping  them  in  hot  water  occasionally),  coat  delicately  with 
oil  or  melted  butter,  heat  in  oven  till  beginning  to  crack  a  little, 
no  more.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  serve  with  Sauce 
Americaine,  Sauce  Imperial,  or  Mayonnaise  or  French  dressing, 
or  with  a  garnish  of  lemon  rings  with  parsley  butter,  p.  163. 
Any  seasoning  but  salt  in  the  croquettes  spoils  them. 

Lentil  Croquettes 

Prepare  the  same  as  bean  croquettes,  serve  with  any  sauce 
given  for  mashed  lentils,  or  with  small  boiled  onions  sometimes. 
A  little  browned  flour  and  chopped  onion  may  be  used  in  the 
croquettes.  Rice  and  lentil  croquettes  may  be  served  with  Bound- 
arj-  Castle  sauce. 

Peas  Croquettes 

Shape  the  same  as  bean  croquettes,  adding  a  little  finely- 
sliced  tender  celerj-  if  desired.  Serve  with  sauces  given  for 
mashed  peas.     The  croquettes  are  very  pretty  rolled  in  parsley 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — LEGUMES  1  89 

before  baking.  Chop  the  parsley,  not  too  fine,  and  spread  it 
out  thin  with  spaces  between  the  particles  on  a  vegetable  board. 
Roll  the  croquettes  over  it  once. 

Iiegume  Fatties 
Shape  mashed  peas,  beans  or  lentils  into  thick  fiat  cakes  in- 
stead of  into  croquettes,  and  serve  with  suitable  sauces. 
Peas  Timbales 
I  cup  mashed  peas  J^  tablespn.  melted  butter 

a  eggs  or  I  of  cream 

a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  }^  teaspn.  salt 

Mix  all  with  beaten  e^s,  bake  in  a  single  or  in  individual 
molds  well  oiled,  in  pan  of  hot  water  until  firm. 

(Very  finely  sliced  celery  may  be  used  instead  of  onion  juice. 
Peas  and  eggs  only  may  be  used  for  plain  timbales).  Serve  with 
cream  sauce.  Finely  sliced  celery,  a  few  whole  green  peas,  a 
little  stewed  corn  or  a  few  pieces  of  tomato  pulp  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce. 

The  individual  timbales  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  some 
vegetable  dish,  giving  meat  value  to  it.  Decorate  timbales  with 
e^  daisies,  carrots,  or  anything  desired. 

Bioe  and  Lentil  Timbales 

Line  a  well  oiled  mold  with  a  %  in.  layer  of  boiled  rice.   Nearly 

fill  the  center  with  mashed  lentils,  cover  with  rice,  steam  or  bake 

20  m.  to  Jii  hr.     Unmold  carefully,  garnish,  serve  with  cream, 

brown,  mushroom  or  any  suitable  sauce. 

Mashed  peas  may  take  the  place  of  lentils,  with  sauce  of  cel- 
ery, onion  or  tomato  cream. 

i  Iientll  Roast 

1  pt.'  lentils  salt 

}i  ctip  raw  nut  butter  sage 

a  lew  bread  crumbs,  or  i  egg 

H  cup  browned  flour  No.  i  ^-^  cup  water 

I  small  osion  chopped 

Cook  and  mash  lentils,  add  nut  butter  and  onion  which  have 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


190  .  THE   LAUREL 

been  cooked  with  sa]t  %  hour  in  the  water,  then  the  browned 
flour  or  the  crumbs,  sage  and  beaten  egg:  more  salt  and  water 
or  crumbs  if  necessary  for  right  consistency.  Press  into  well 
oiled  mold  or  brick-shaped  tin,  bake,  covered,  in  pan  of  water 
about  I  hour  or  until  firm.  Dry  in  oven  10  m.,  out  of  water  if 
necessar}'.  Let  stand  in  warm  place  5  m.  Unmold  on  to  platter, 
garnish.     Serve  with  sauce  6.  16.  18.  54  or  57. 

Flavorings  of  roast  may  be  varied  or  omitted. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  might  be  used  in  place  of  raw  nut  butter. 

1  cup  stewed  tomato  may  be  used  for  liquid. 

For  people  with  good  digestion,  the  lentils  may  be  ground 
through  a  food  cutter  instead  of  being  put  through  the  colander. 

Chlok  Peas  Boast 

Subtitute  chick  peas  for  lentils  in  lentil  roast. 
Peas  Boast 

1  pt.  mashed,  dry,  split  or  whole  green  peas,  1  to  2  eggs  or 
whites  of  eggs  only,  or  a  little  fresh  cracker  dust.  Bake  as 
lentil  roast  until  firm  only.  Serve  with  tomato  cream  sauce  or 
almond  cream,  tomato  or  celery  cream  sauce.  Peas  require  no 
flavoring,  but  celery  or  celerj'  salt  may  be  added,  serving  with 
plain  cream  sauce. 

Sister  Boulter's  Bed  Kidney  Bean  Loaf 

Cook  and  crush  or  grind  red  kidney  beans,  add  salt  and  sage, 
mold.  Serve  cold,  sliced,  with  or  without  oil,  or  use  for  sand- 
wiches. A  few  crumbs  may  be  added  if  necessary,  the  loaf  baked, 
and  served  hot  with  any  suitable  accompaniment. 

Purees  of  Legumes 
Add  sufficient  water,   nut  or  dairy  cream  or  milk  to  mashed 
beans,  peas   or  lentils  to   make  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick. 
batter.     No  sauce  is  required. 

if  Bioli  Baked  Beans 
Wash    beans    and    get    them    into   boiling   salted   water,    in 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS LEGUMES  IQI 

the  bean  pot,  as  quickly  as  possible.  For  each  pint  of  beans 
use  1%  to  1%  teaspn.  of  salt.  Add  plenty  of  water  at  first, 
perhaps  three  times  the  quantity  of  beans.  Put  into  a  hot  oven 
until  they  begin  to  boil,  then  reduce  the  temperature  to  such  a 
degree  as  will  keep  them  just  simmering  for  from  12  to  24  hours. 
The  old-fashioned  New  England  baked  beans  were  kept  in  a 
brick  oven  for  three  days,  and  each  day  they  were  better  than 
the  last. 

Do  not  stir  the  beans  after  the  skins  begin  to  break.  When 
necessary  to  add  more  water,  pour  it  boiling  over  the  top  and 
let  it  settle  in  gradually.  A  gentle  shaking  may  be  helpful. 
After  they  are  swollen  and  softened  they  should  not  have  too 
much  water  on  at  a  tiine,  nor  be  baked  too  fast;  if  so,  they  will 
be  "mushy." 

They  are  most  generally  liked  slightly  juicy  when  served — not 
too  wet  nor  too  dry,  but  just  "juicy."  They  may  be  served  with 
the  Salad  Entree  dressing,  Improved  Mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing,  with  oil  or  lemon  juice  or  with  Chili  sauce,  but  the\' 
all  spoil  that  delightful  bean  flavor  in  the  rich,  thick  juice. 
Beans  have  a  characteristic  flavor  which  is  destroyed  by  the 
addition  of  anything  but  salt  and  water,  \folasses,  cream,  nut 
butter  and  tomato  are  all  good  in  their  place,  but  that  is  not  in 
baked  beans  if  we  attain  to  the  keenest  enjoyment  of  the  bean 
flavor.  We  get  the  rich  red  color,  without  the  rank  molasses 
taste,  by  prolonged  baking.  Cream  and  milk  deaden  the  flavor, 
and  nut  butter  and  tomato  change  it. 

Those  who  taste  our  baked  beans  for  the  first  time  exclaim, 
"I  would  not  have  believed  it,"  and  it  is  hard  for  them  to  be- 
lieve that  there  is  no  meat  in  them. 

Bake  Red  Kidney  and  other  varieties  of  beans  the  same  as 
white  beans. 

For  those  who  think  they  must  have  the  molasses,  use  i  teaspn. 
molasses  (or  2  teaspns,  for  a  very  strong  molasses  flavor)  2  tea- 
spns.  oil  and  iJ^-iK  teaspn,  salt  to  each  pint  of  beans. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


192  THE    LAUREL 

ir  Western  Baked  Beans 
Boil  beans  in  salted  water  until  the  skins  are  broken.      Put  into 
a  pudding  dish  with  plenty  of  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  dry  and  mealy  and  delicately  browned  over  the  top. 
Bakod  SpUt  YeUow  Peas 
I  qt.  Ci  J4  lb.)  split  peas  j4  cup  strained  stewed  tomato 

1-2  tablespns.  browned  flour  3-3?^  teaspns.  salt 

Wash  peas,  put  into  bean  pot,  add  browned  flour,  tomato 
and  salt  which  have  been  mixed  together,  then  turn  over  them 
two  or  three  times  their  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Stir  well. 
When  boiling,  regulate  the  heat  of  the  oven  so  as  to  keep  them 
gently  simmering  for  from  5  to  7  hours.  Do  not  stir  after  they 
are  first  put  to  cooking.  They  require  greater  care  than  beans 
to  keep  them  from  breaking.  However,  if  they  do  not  keep 
their  shape  they  will  be  of  a  jelly-like  consistency  not  at  all 
objectionable.  May  add  2  large  onions  sliced  tine. 
Baked  SpUt  YeUow  Peas  No.  2 
I  qt.  peas  I  cup  tomato 

j^  cup  roasted  nut  butter  3-3^^  teaspns.  salt 

Rub  nut  butter  smooth  with  tomato  and  add  with  salt  and 
boiling  water  to  peas.  Raw  nut  butter  and  browned  flour  may 
be  substituted  for  the  roasted  nut  butter. 

if  Baked  Split  Green  Peas 

Wash  peas  and  put  into  a  baking  dish  with  i  teaspn.  of  salt 
to  each  pint  of  peas  and  2  to  2^  times  the  quantity  of  water. 
Cook  on  top  of  the  stove  until  tender  (about  i  hour),  then  put, 
covered,  into  a  slow  oven  and  bake  until  dry  and  mealy  all 
through,  which  will  not  be  long  if  there  was  not  too  much  water 
in  them.  Peas  lose  their  delicate  flavor  and  develop  a  strong 
taste  if  cooked  too  long.  If  this  amount  of  water  is  too  great, 
use  a  little  less.  Serve  if  desired  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were 
baked,  with  sauces  given  for  mashed  peas.  A  mint  and  celery 
flavored  raw  nut  butter  sauce  is  nice  with  them. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS LEGUMES  193 

When  desired  very  smooth  they  may  be  put  through  a  colan- 
der. They  may  be  used  in  soups  and  in  all  dishes  where  mashed 
peas  are  required. 

Baked  LentilB-great  favorites 

Stew  lentils  with  salt,  with  or  without  chopped  onion,  until 
nearly  tender. 

Add  a  little  cream,  turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  hnish  in  the 
oven.      Serve  juicy. 

A  little  thick  cream  poured  over  the  lentils  during  the  last  of 
the  baking  gives  a  nice  crusty  finish  to  the  top. 
Stewed  Beans 

Put  red  kidney  and  other  beans  with  tough  skins  into  boiling 
unsalted  water  and  cook  until  nearly  but  not  quite  tender  before 
adding  the  salt.  Common  white,  Lima  and  all  beans  with  ten- 
der skins  must  be  put  into  boiling  salted  water  at  first.  After  a 
short  time  of  rapid  boiling  let  beans  just  simmer  until  tender, 
then  add  a  little  heavy  cream  and  stand  back  where  they  will 
keep  hot  but  will  not  boil,  for  a  half  hour  or  longer.  A  little 
raw  nut  butter  may  be  cooked  with  them  sometimes,  or,  cocoa- 
nut  cream  may  be  substituted  for  dairy  cream. 

Red  kidney  and  some  of  the  richer  varieties  may  be  ser\ed 
with  boiled  rice  or  in  a  mashed  potato  border. 
Stewed  Split  Oreen  Peas 

Cook  peas  in  salted  water  ^  to  i  hour,  add  cream,  heat  and 
serve.  Two  parts  stewed  dried  or  green  sweet  corn  to  one  of 
peas,  may  be  added  sometimes. 

Flowering  Beans 
which    have    no   equal   in   flavor,    should   be   put  into  a  large 
quantity  of  cold  water,  brought  to  the  boiling  point,  boiled  for 
ID  m.,  drained   and    put    to   cooking   in  boiling  unsalted  water. 
Add  salt  when  nearly  tender.     Try  them. 

Stewed  Beans  in  Bean  Sauce 

Mash  a  few  of  the  stewed  beans,  add  cream,  or  milk  and  but 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


194  THE   LAUREL 

ter  with  the  water  from  the  beans,  more  salt  if  necessary;  blend 
well,  pour  over  remainder  of  beans,  heat.  Serve  on  toast  or  as 
preferred, 

Btew«d  Iientils—lor  people  vith  good  digestion 

Cook  lentils  with  raw  nut  butter,  onion,  garlic,  browned  flour 
and  salt,  until  tender,  rich  and  juicy.  Serve  without  mashing 
with  boiled  rice  or  with  some  of  the  large  sizes  of  macaroni. 
cooked. 

Lentils  may  be  cooked  plain  with  salt  and  seasoned  with  cream 
or  butter  at  the  last. 

Bagout  of  Chick  FeaB-especiallr  delicious 

Soak  the  peas  over  night.  Cook  and  cook  and  cook  in  the 
water  they  were  soaked  in.  When  about  half  done  add  garlic, 
onion,  a  very  little  browned  Hour,  tomato  and  salt.  Serve  with 
dressing,  rice,  dumplings — steamed  or  baked,  or  on  toast. 

Cabbage  Leaf  Bolls  of  Lentils 

I  cup  lentils  sage 

1  cup  rice  salt 

2  tablespns,  raw  nut  butter  i  loose  head  o(  cabbage 
onion  a  little  tomato  if  desired 

Boil  cabbage  leaves  in  salted  water  5-8  m.,  or  sprinkle  with 
salt,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  let  stand  20  m.  to  ^  hour. 
Refresh  with  cold  water,  drain. 

Cook  lentils  till  beginning  to  get  tender  but  not  until  broken. 
drain  and  save  water. 

Cook  rice  in  salted  water  until  swollen  but  not  soft  (about  15 
m.),  drain  if  necessary  and  save  the  water.  Mix  lentils,  rice, 
sage,  chopped  onion,  raw  nut  butter  and  salt  smooth  with  a  lit- 
tle of  the  lentil  water.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  this  mixture  in 
the  center  of  each  cabbage  leaf.  Fold  the  sides  of  the  leaf  over 
and  roll  into  croquette  shape.  Pack  close  in  layers  in  an  oiled 
baking  dish.  (A  flaring  granite  pan  would  do  nicely.)  Pour  the 
rice  water  and  lentil  water  over,  with  a  little  tomato  if  desired. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


POACHED  EGGS  A 


ARIEGATED  MEAT,  P. 


ovGoo<^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


TRUE    MEATS — EGGS  195 

and  add  enough  boiling,  slightly  salted  water  to  cover.  Press  a 
plate  over  the  rolls,  cover  and  bake  ^  to  i  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Drain,  save  liquid,  remove  plate,  invert  dish  on  to  chop  tray, 
leaving  rolls  in  a  mound.  Thicken  liquid  slightly  and  turn  over 
rolls  or  serve  separately.     Garnish  mound. 

Dairy  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  raw  nut  butter. 

SB.vory  Hash 

Equal  quantities  mashed  lentils  and  boiled  rice  or  chopped 
potato,  seasoned  with  sage  or  onion.  Add  water  or  cream  and 
salt.  A  few  soaked  and  chopped  dried  olives  may  be  added  to 
the  hash. 

' '  The  pea  and  the  lentil  are  roasted  in  the  Mediterranean  coun- 
tries and  form  there  a  regular  article  of  food.  In  India  peas  are 
parched  in  hot  sand.  The  chick-pea,  as  found  by  experiment, 
can  be  parched  over  coals  in  a  few  moments  and  thus  be  made 
edible.  The  taste  reminds  one  of  pop  corn  and  roasted  chest- 
nuts. A  slight  bitterness  is  present,  due,  probably,  to  the  skin 
which  does  not  slip  off  in  roasting  as  does  the  skin  of  the  pea- 
nut. When  this  skin  is  removed  before  roasting,  as  it  may  be 
by  a  half* hour's  soaking,  the  product  is  improved. 

Our  common  split  pea  is  also  palatable  when  parched.  Parched 
peas  are  too  hard  for  any  but  the  strongest  teeth,  and.  as  used 
in  India,  they  are  ground  and  cooked  after  parching.  The 
roasted  chick-pea  is  also  used  as  a  substitute  for  coffee." — .Uan- 
Hinmau  Abel,  Farmers'  Bvlletin  No.  12],  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Ag- 
riculturf. 

EQOS 

"Milk  and  eggs  should  not  be  classed  with  flesh  meat.  In 
some  cases  the  use  of  eggs  is  beneficial." 

"  While  their  use  will  become  more  and  more  unsafe  as  dis- 
ease in  animals  increases,  they  should  not  be  discarded  entirely, 
when  other  foods  to  supply  the  needed  elements  cannot  be  ob- 


t,zcob,CoOi^lc 


196  THE   LAUREL 

tained.  Great  care,  however,  should  be  taken  to  obtain  milk 
from  healthy  cows  and  eggs  from  healthy  fowls  that  are  well  fed 
and  well  cared  for. " 

Though  eggs  are,  to  some  extent,  stimulating,  they  do  not 
contain  the  poisonous,  excrementitious  matter  found  in  the  flesh 
of  dead  animals;  and  no  animal  life  is  destroyed  by  their  use. 

As  eggs,  at  present,  form  so  important  a  part  of  the  Vegeta- 
rian dietary,  care  should  be  taken  to  prepare  them  attractively 
and  palatably. 

SuggestioiiB 

Only  strictly  fresh  eggs  should  be  used  for  any  purpose.  There 
is  danger  in  stale  e^s. 

The  beaten  raw  egg  is  usually  considered  the  most  digestible, 
but  there  are  some  with  whom  lightly  cooked  eggs,  as  "Eggs  in 
the  Shell"  agree  best,  and  still  others  upon  whom  the  soft  yolk 
acts  almost  like  poison,  who  can  take  omelets  or  scrambled  e^s 
better,  where  the  whites  and  yolks  are  thoroughly  mingled 
(when  cooked  in  not  too  large  a  quantity  of  oil). 

Occasionally  we  find  a  person  with  whom  the  white  of  the  e^ 
disagrees;  but  very  seldom. 

Trj'  taking  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  when  you  have  a  sour 
stomach.  It  is  very  soothing,  also,  to  an  irritated,  sensitive 
stomach. 

The  white  of  an  egg  relieves  the  pain  and  prevents  inflam- 
mation when  applied  quickly  to  a  burn  or  scald. 

A  few  sliced  Brazil  nuts  or  filberts  or  broken  pieces  of  other 
nuts  added  to  omelets  or  scrambled  eggs  aid  mastication. 

Salt  should  not  be  put  into  the  water  for  poaching  eggs;  it 
renders  them  less  digestible. 

The  cooked  yolk  of  the  egg  is  most  digestible  when  cooked 
long  enough  to  be  dry  and  mealy,  and  the  white  when  just  jellied. 

Never  use  milk  in  scrambled  eggs  or  omelets.  The  casein  of 
the  milk  hardens  with  cooking  and  renders  the  eggs  toi^h;  be- 
sides, the  flavor  of  the  eggs  is  much  finer  with  water,  and  ome- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — EGGS  197 

lets  are  lighter.     Cream  spoils  the  flavor  though  it  does  not 
toughen  the  e^  as  does  milk. 

Always  bake  souffles,  puff  omelets,  cakes,  all  things  to  be 
made  light  with  egg,  slowly,  and  well  from  the  bottom,  so  that 
they  will  stay  up,  after  rising.  Serve  souffles  and  puff  omelets 
as  soon  as  done. 

For  custards  or  any  thickening,  beat  eggs  just  sufficiently  to 
mingle,  not  to  a  foam. 

Drop  yolks  of  e^s  in  cold  water  to  keep  them  from  drying  up 
when  whites  only  are  desired,  and  lift  carefully  from  the  water 
with  a  teaspoon  when  ready  to  use. 

Add  a  trifle  of  salt  to  whites  of  eggs  before  beating;  they  will 
be  lighter. 

Stand  yolks  of  eggs  in  half  the  shell  on  a  wrinkled  towel  while 
waiting  to  prepare  the  whites  for  egg  creams  and  other  dishes. 

When  eggs  are  used  freely  in  breads,  cakes  or  puddings,  other 
proteid  foods  will  not  be  required,  so  they  need  not  add  to  the 
expense  of  the  meal. 

Eggs  In  Che  Shell,  or  Curdled  Eggs 

The  objection  to  the  "soft  boiled"  egg  is  that  the  white  is 
hard  while  the  yolk  is  soft.  To  obviate  this  difficulty,  put  from 
I  to  4  eggs  into  boiling  water,  l  pint  for  each  e^  (cover  if  the 
dish  is  broad  and  shallow;  if  deep,  leave  uncovered),  and  let 
stand  off  from  the  fire  for  from  5  to  10  minutes  according  to  the 
age  of  the  eggs.  Fresh  laid  eggs  will  cook  in  a  shorter  time  than 
those  several  days  old. 

When  a  larger  number  of  e^s  is  required,  use  a  smaller  pro- 
portion of  water  and  let  them  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range 
where  the  water  will  be  below  the  boiling  point,  for  5  minutes. 

The  most  accurate  way  to  obtain  the  desired  result  is  to  keep 
the  water  at  the  temperature  (by  the  thermometer)  of  168  to  170 
degs.  for  10  minutes;  never  allowing  it  to  go  above  170  nor  below 
168.  The  flavor  of  eg^  cooked  in  this  way  is  as  much  more 
delicate  and  delightful  as  is  the  consistency. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


198  THE    LAUREL 

Boasted  Eggs 

Prick  the  shells  of  the  eggs  several  times  at  the  pointed  end  to 
prevent  their  bursting  during  cooking,  set  them  on  the  large  end 
in  the  hot  sand  or  ashes  under  the  camp  fire,  cover  with  leaves, 
hot  sand  and  embers  and  cook  for  lo  minutes.  When  opened 
they  will  be  smooth  and  of  a  velvety  consistency.  The  same  re- 
sult may  be  obtained  by  putting  eggs  in  the  hot  ashes  under  the 
grate  of  the  kitchen  range. 

Poached  Egga 

In  an  oiled,  shallow  pan  have  unsalted  boiling  water  deep 
enough  to  be  at  least  ]4  in.  above  the  eggs.  Slide  the  broken 
eggs  (only  fresh  laid  eggs  will  poach  nicely)  into  the  perfectly 
boiling  water,  singly,  or  all  from  one  large  dish.  Set  pan  on  as- 
bestos pad,  cover  and  leave  where  the  water  will  keep  hot  but  will 
not  boil,  until  the  e^s  are  jelly-like.  Remove  carefully  from 
the  water  with  a  small  oiled  skimmer  and  cut  ol!  the  ragged 
edges  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Nothing  is  more  offensive  to  the 
eye  than  a  rough  ragged  poached  egg. 

Besides  the  usual  toast,  poached  eggs  may  be  served  on  cream 
toast,  round  slices  of  broiled  trumese,  on  hash  or  creamed  vege- 
tables, or  in  shallow  nests  of  boiled  rice,  mashed  potato  or 
spinach.  Do  not  forget  the  garnish,  as  there  is  no  place  where 
a  spray  of  parsley  gives  a  better  effect  than  on  poached  eggs. 

Or,  place  oiled  muffin  rings  in  the  pan  of  water  and  break  an 
egg  into  each  ring;  take  up  with  griddle  cake  turner  and  remove 
the  ring. 

The  most  nearly  perfect  of  all,  however,  are  eggs  poached  in 
the  Buffalo  Steam  Poacher  after  the  following  method: 

Have  the  lower  part  of  the  poacher  Yi  full  of  boiling  w^tei; 
set  the  ivvll  oiled  poacher  cups,  each  containing  an  egg,  into 
their  places;  cover,  let  stand  over  the  hot  fire  just  a  moment  to 
allow  the  cover  to  become  filled  with  steam,  then  set  off  from 
the  fire.  Leave,  covered  tight,  for  6  m.,  when  you  will  have 
eggs  beautifully  jellied  all  through,  which  (if  the  cups  were  oiled 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — EGGS  199 

sufficiently  will  slide  out  on  to  whatever  you    wish    to   serve 
them  on. 

Sometimes  poach  eggs  in  thin  cream  or  in  milk  and  butter,  lay 
on  to  slices  of  toast,  halves  of  biscuit  or  large  thin  wafers,  and 
pour  the  cream  around. 

Poached  Tolka  of  Eggs 
Drop  yolks,   one  at  a  time,   into  rapidly  boiling  water;  keep 
them  rolling,   by  rapid  boiling,  for  at  least   lO  m. ;  then  stand 
where  they  will  boil  more  slowly  till  done,  20-25  m. 
Foaclied  WMtea  ol  Eggs 
To  be  cut  in  fancy  shapes  for  Kamishing, 
Break  whites  of  eggs  into  thoroughly  oiled  cup  or  bowl,  set  in 
pan  of  hot  water,  with  something  to  keep  the  dish  from  touch- 
ing the  bottom  of  the  pan,   and  leave  over  the  fire  until  the 
white  is  set. 

Poached  Beaten  EggB 
Beat  eggi  to  a  foam  with  water,  or  any  desired  addition,  and 
cook  in  steam  poacher. 

Creamed  Eggs 
Break  eggs  into  a  shallow  baking  dish,  cover  with  thin  cream 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  dot  with  pars- 
ley leaves  before  serving.     Or,  bake  or  steam  singly  in  ramekins 
or  custard  cups.   Ryebread  crumbs  may  be  sprinkled  in  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  and  over  the  eggs  for  variety,  also  ground  pine  nuts. 
Bice  with  Poached  Eggs 
Steam  rice  in  shallow  dish;  when  done,  make  depressions  for 
the  required  number  of  eggs;  break  one  into  each  hollow,  set 
dish  in  steamer  for  2  m.,   or  till  whites  are  set,   sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  and  send  to  table.     Creamed  potatoes  may  be 
substituted  for  rice  sometimes,  and  either  may  be  baked  in  the 
oven  by  covering  with  a  pan. 

Poached  Eggs—Creamed  Celery 
Put  nicely  poached  eggs  on  rounds  of  toast  and  arrange  in  a 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


200  THE    LAUREL 

circle  on  a  chop  tray;  fill  the  center  with  celery  in  cream  sauce. 
Garnish  with  leaves  of  spinach. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs 

Put  eggs  into  warm  water,  bring  to  just  below  the  boiling 
point,  200  degs.  and  keep  at  that  temperature  for  about  30  m. 
Drop  for  a  moment  into  cold  water  before  removing  the  shells. 
Or,  when  necessary,  boil  rapidly  for  10-20  m. 

Hard  eggs  agree  with  some  stomachs  better  than  soft  ones. 
Italian  Eggs 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,  lay  on  to  cutlets 
of  corn  meal  porridge  and  pour  Italian  sauce  around. 
Creamed  Eggs  on  Toast 

Serve  halves  or  quarters  or  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  on  toast 
with  cream  sauce,  plain,  or  flavored  with  celery  or  onion,  with 
chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over.  Plain  or  tomato  drawn  butter 
may  be  substituted  for  cream  sauce. 

Eggs  and  Macaroni 

Cook  macaroni  in  2-in.  lengths,  in  salted  water  with  onion 
and  garlic  or  garlic  only.  Drain  and  arrange  in  nest  fashion  on 
chop  tray.  Lay  whole,  shelled  eggs  in  center,  pour  cream  of  to- 
mato sauce  around  and  over  nest.  Sprinkle  with  parsley- 
Drawn  butter  or  cream  sauce  may  be  used. 

Or,  cut  eggs  in  halves,  crosswise,  remove  yolks  and  mix  to  a 
paste  with  melted  butter,  salt,  onion  juice  and  chopped  parsley. 
Fill  whites  with  the  mixture  and  arrange  on  bed  of  macaroni. 
Pour  sauce  over.  The  roast  gravy  or  some  of  the  mushroom 
sauces  may  be  used. 

Eggs  With  Sauce 

Hard  boiled  eggs,  whole  or  in  halves,   may  be  served  with 
cream,   cream  of  tomato  or  mint  sauce,  or  with  sauce  Imperial 
or  fruit  sauces  or  jellies;  with  mint  sauce  on  broiled  nutmese. 
Stuffed  Eggs 

Cut  hard  boiled  e^s  in  halves,  lengthwise,  remove  yolks  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — EGGS  20I 

add  to  them  bread  or  roll  crumbs  soaked  in  cream,  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  salt.  Rub  all  together  until  smooth,  add 
raw  e^  (or  yolk  only)  to  bind,  fill  spaces  in  the  whites  of  eggs 
and  press  the  halves  together.  Add  beaten  whole  e^  to  the 
mixture  remaining,  dip  eggs  into  it,  roll  in  crumbs  and  heat  in 
oven  or  steamer,  covered,  until  just  warmed  through.  Serve 
with  any  desired  sauce. 

A  little  onion  juice  may  be  added  to  the  yolk  mixture,  or  nut- 
mese  or  trumese  cut  very  fine,  with  or  without  chopped  mush- 
rooms.     Mashed  potato  may  be  substituted  for  bread  crumbs. 

The  e^s  may  be  served  as  a  garnish  for  green  peas  or  on  slices 
of  toast  with  or  without  sauce. 

Eggs  with  Bipe  Olives 
3  eggs  French  dressing 

13  (or  more)  olives,  chopped  coarse  chopped  parsley 

Cut  eggs  in  halves  crosswise,  remove  yolks  and  mix  with  olives 

and  dressing,   return  to  the  whites,   stand  on  leaves  of  lettuce 

and  sprinkle  with  parsley.      Pour  dressing  around.      Improved 

Mayonnaise  dressing  is  suitable  also.      May  garnish  with  whole 

olives. 

Pickled  Eggs 

Pickle — 2  parts  each  of  lemon  juice  and  water,  %  part  sugar, 

salt  and  a  little  celery  salt.      Heat  to  boiling,   pour  over  hard 

boiled  e^s  with  a  few  slices  of  red  beet.     Let  stand  24  hours. 

Eggs  A,  la  Solacte 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,  remove  yolks,  rub 
through  wire  strainer  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  Improved 
Mayonnaise  dressing  {flavored  with  onion  or  garlic  if  desired), 
fill  the  whites  and  press  the  halves  together.  Lay  in  nests  of 
shredded  lettuce  dotted  with  the  dressing. 

Or,  rub  whites  through  strainer,  place  around  the  inside  of 
nests  of  shredded  lettuce:  mix  yolks  with  dressing,  shape  into 
small  eggs  and  place  in  nests. 

Shirred  Eggs 

Butter  and  crumb  individual  dishes,   break   i   or  2  eggs  into 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


202  THE   LAUREL 

each,  set  over  pan  of  hot  water  in  oven  and  bake  until  e^s  are 
set.     The  dish  may  be  rubbed  with  a  cut  clove  of  garlic. 

If  preferred,  sprinkle  oiled  griddle  with  crumbs,  set  buttered 
muffin  rings  on  it,  pressing  them  down  firmly,  and  drop  an  egg 
into  each  ring.  Bake.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.serve  on 
toast  with  any  desired  sauce. 

Sorembled  Eggs. 

Put  oil  in  pan  and  heat  very  hot  but  not  smoking.  Turn  in 
eggs  which  have  been  broken  and  salted  but  not  beaten.  As 
they  set,  draw  carefully  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  spoon 
without  turning  over.  When  all  are  set  but  not  hard,  slide 
quickly  (leaving  the  shining  side  up)  on  to  a  plate  or  platter. 
The  dish  must  be  all  ready,  as  a  moment's  delay  will  overcook 
the  eggs. 

Another  Way—  Take  from  i  teaspn.  to  I  tablespn.  of  water 
(never  milk)  for  each  e^;  beat,  and  scramble  as  above. 

Do  not  stir,  just  draw  the  eggs  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Cream  may  be  used  but  the  flavor  is  inferior  to  the  water 
scramble.     Nut  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  water. 

To  Scramble  a  Large  Quantity  of  Eggs 

Break  3  or  4  dozens  of  eggs  into  an  oiled  agate  or  aluminum 

kettle,  add  salt  and  water,  beat  slightly  and  set  kettle  into  hot 

water.     Stir  occasionally  at  first,  then  more  often  as  eggs  begin 

to  set. 

Do  not  try  to  keep  warm  long,  but  make  fresh  lots  as  required. 

if  Tomato  Scrambled  Eggs 
Take   ^-T   teaspn.   thick  tomato  pulp  to  each  egg,  with  salt. 
May  flavor  with  onion, 

ic  Sour  Milk  Scrambled  Eggs 
I  tablespn.  thick  sour  milk  to  each  egg,  salt;  cook  till  just  done. 

Various  Scrambles 
Simmer  sliced  celery  or  onion  in  oil  a  few  minutes  before  add- 
ing e^s.     Or,  add  asparagus  tips,  green  peas,   mushrooms,    a 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE   MEATS EGGS  203 

little  boiled  rice  or  a  few  broken  nuts  or  bits  of  trumese  or  nut- 
mese  to  eggs  before  scrambling. 
The  yolks  only  may  be  scrambled. 

if  Oream  Sauoe  Scramble 
Add  3  eggs  to  each  half-cup  of  hot  cream  sauce;  mix  until 
done.-     Garnish  with  sliced  tomato.     Mushrooms  may  be  added 
to  the  cream  sauce  before  the  eggs.     Any  desired  sauce  may  be 
used. 

Florentine  Sorambled  Bggs 
Spread  nicely  scrambled  e|^s   on   rounds   of   moistened  toast 
and  place  a  broiled  or  baked  half  of  tomato  on  top.     Garnish 
with  parsley  or  spinach  leaves  or  with  lettuce  and  fringed  celery. 

Bgg  Croquettes 

.Vtftff^ — I  tablespn.  butter  i  teaspn.  onion  juice 

2-3^  tablespns.  flour  i  teaspn.  salt 

I  cup  milk  or  thin  cream        6  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped 

The  whites  of  eggs  may  be  rubbed  through  a  wire  strainer  or 
a  ricer.  Make  sauce  the  usual  way;  cool;  add  the  eggs  and  shape 
into  croquettes,  egg,  crumb  and  bake.  A  few  cooked  chopped 
fresh  or  dried  mushrooms  may  be  added  with  the  eggs. 

Egg  imd  Bioe  Croquettes 
a  cups  boiled  rice  grated  onion  or  finely-sliced  cel- 

)i  cup  cream  ery,  or  both 

oil  or  melted  butter         chopped  parsley 
3-4  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  or  the  whites  riced 

Shape,  heat  in  oven,  serve  with  cream  sauce,  with  or  without 
peas  or  celery. 

OMELETS  , 

The  making  of  an  omelet  is  very  simple,  requiring  just  a  little 
practice,  and  it  is  by  far  the  most  attractive  way  of  serving  eggs. 

It  is  better  to  make  several  small  omelets  of  3  or  4  eggs  each 
than  one  very  lai^e  one.  Six  eggs  is  the  most  that  can  be 
handled  at  all  properly. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


204  THE    LAUREL 

Use  I  teaspn.  to  i  tablespn.  of  water  to  each  egg.  The  water 
may  be  omitted  entirely. 

Eggs  may  be  beaten  a  very  httle,  or  until  light  and  foamy. 

Omelet  pans  should  not  be  used  for  anything  else.  To  keep 
them  smooth,  rub  with  soft  pieces  of  paper  or  a  cloth  after 
using,  and  occasionally  scour  them  with  salt.  Do  not  wash  them. 
Keep  in  warm,  dry  place. 

Omelets  should  be  served  immediately,  when  made. 

Plain  Prenoh  Omelet 
3  eggs  1-3  tablespns.  water  J4  teaspn.  salt 

Beat.  Have  butter  or  oil  in  pan  to  well  cover  the  bottom. 
Heat  hot,  but  not  to  smoking  or  brownness.  Turn  the  eggs  in 
and  with  a  spatula  (or  a  thin  bladed  knife)  lift  the  set  portions, 
allowing  the  hquid  part  to  run  underneath.  When  all  is  set, 
jelly-hke,  not  hard,  roll  quickly  from  one  side  into  the  form,  as 
one  writer  says,  of  an  "oval  cushion."  Hold  omelet  for  a 
moment  over  the  fire  to  take  a  dehcate  cream  color  underneath. 
Turn  on  to  a  hot  platter,  the  under  side  up,  garnish  and  serve. 

If  an  omelet  is  quite  thick  it  may  be  folded  over  just  double. 

It  should  be  a  little  soft  on  the  top  before  folding. 

The  perfect  shape  is  higher  in  the  center  and  pointed  at  the 
ends. 

Olive  oil,  in  the  pan,  gives  a  flavor  much  enjoyed  by  many. 

If  the  oven  is  just  right,  setting  the  pan  in  the  oven  a  moment 
before  or  after  folding  puffs  the  omelet  nicely. 

The  plain  omelet  may  be  varied  by  mixing  some  garnish  with 
the  eggs  and  spreading  it  over  the  top  before  folding,  or  serving 
it  around  the  omelet  on  the  platter. 

When  the  material  is  to  be  folded  in,  leave  the  center  of  the 
omelet  a  little  thinner. 

Accompaniments  to  omelets  must  be  well  seasonedand  flavored. 

Sweet  omelets  with  fruits  make  nice  desserts  or  luncheon 
dishes. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — EGGS  205 

Omelet  Variatibiu 

Apple  and  Onion — Garnish  omelet  with  apple  and  onion  sauce. 

Apricot — Stewed,  dried  apricots  folded  in  omelet. 

Aspar^Ofl — Season  asparagus  tips  with  butter  and  salt ;  lay  be- 
tween folds  of  omelet  and  on  the  top,  or,  pile  at  one  side  of  the 
omelet.  The  butter  may  be  omitted  and  a  rich  cream  or  egg 
cream  sauce  poured  over  the  tips  and  around  the  omelet. 

i(  Buiana  Cream — Heat,  do  not  boil  cream  and  sugar;  add  ba- 
nana cut  into  small  dice;  cover  omelet  (which  has  had  a  little 
sugar  beaten  with  the  eggs),  fold,  serve  with  wafers.  Do  not 
heat  the  cream  after  adding  the  banana. 

Com,  a  great  favorite — Use  l-lK  tablespn.  nicely  seasoned, 
rather  dry  stewed  corn  (no  water)  for  each  e^.  Mix  well  and 
cook  as  plain  omelet.  Use  I  tablespn.  grated  fresh  corn  for  each 
e^.      Creamed  dried  corn  may  be  used. 

Cramb — 2  eggs,  2  tablespns.  bread  crumbs,  J4  cup  milk,  salt. 
Beat  eggs  together  or  separately. 

Fine  HerlM — Finely-chopped  fresh  thyme,  tarragon  and  chives; 
or,  parsley,  thyme  and  marjoram,  beaten  with  the  eggs.  Lemon 
butter  sauce  may  be  spread  over  the  omelet  after  it  is  on  the 
platter. 

Gooseberry — Spread  omelet  with  not  too  sweet  stewed  goose- 
berries. 

Imperial — Serve  with  Sauce  Imperial. 

Jelly — Spread  with  jelly  before  folding;  or  garnish  with  spoon- 
fuls; or  unmold  a  small  flat  mold  of  jelly  beside  the  omelet  on 
the  platter  and  serve  with  it.  Garnish  with  geranium  or  spin- 
ach leaves. 

Mayonnaise — Spread  or  garnish  with  Improved  Mayonnaise 
dressing. 

ir  Hosbroom — Cook  mushrooms,  fresh,  in  their  own  juices, 
in  a  double  boiler  with  butter  and  salt.     Cover  half  the  omdbt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


306  THE   LAUREL 

before  folding  and  garnish  the  folded  omelet  with  some  of  the 
most  i>erfect  mushrooms.  Pour  the  liquid  around.  Chopped 
mushrooms  may  be  used  on  the  inside  if  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

■  -^  Another — Broil  the  mushrooms,  pour  melted  butter  over 
ahd  use  in  the  same  way  as  above. 

Nut — Add  a  few  broken  or  coarse  chopped  nuts  to  egg  mix- 
ture and  garnish  top  with  halves  of  nuts. 

Onion — Add  grated  or  finely-sliced  onion  and  chopped  parsley 
to  egg  mixture.  Cook  omelet  very  soft.  Or,  simmer  sliced  on- 
ions in  oil  till  tender  (not  brown),  add  e^  mixture  and  cook. 
Or,  simmer  onions  in  oil,  drain  oil  into  omelet  pan,  cook  omelet 
ahd  cover  with  onions  before  folding. 

Onion  and  Tomato — Simmer  onions  in  oil,  add  a  little  drained, 
stewed  tomato  and  salt,  heat  and  serve  around  omelet, 

OyHter  Flant — Cover  omelet  with  stewed  oyster  plant  in 
slices  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  seasoned  with  butter,  cream  or 
cream  sauce,  before  folding. 

Parsley — Chopped  parsley  in  omelet  mixture  and  omelet 
Served  with  parsley  butter. 

Feae-^reen — Same  as  oyster  plant  omelet.  The  dried  chick 
peas,  cooked  and  richly  seasoned  as  on  p.  194,  make  a  delightful 
accompaniment. 

Feaa—maslied — 1  tablespn.  of  mashed  peas  and  }4  tablespn.  of 
water  to  each  egg.     Salt. 

Prone — Prunes  stewed  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  so  that 
the  syrup  is  rich;  pitted,  quartered  and  folded  into  omelet. 

Bloe — Mix  boiled  rice  with  e^s,  cook  soft,  serve  with  tomato 
sauce  if  desired. 

Tomato — Drain  stewed  tomatoes,  season  well  with  butter 
and  salt,  or  salt  only.  Serve  in  and  around  omelet.  Or,  thick 
tomato  pulp  may  be  added  to  the  e^  mixture.  Serve  omelet 
plajn  or  with  cream  sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS-^EGGS  207 

TnuneBs  Sal&d  Bntrde — Lay  strips  of  trumese  salad  entree  on 
half  of  omelet;  fold,  turn  on  to  platter,  pour  dressing  arOund, 
garnish  with  parsley  or  spinach  leaves. 

Omelet  with  Okra  in  Almond  Cream  Sauoe— delicious 

^  tablespn.  almond  butter,  }4  cup  water,  salt,  mix,  boil;  add 
%  cup  drained  stewed  okra,  heat.  Serve  in  and  around  3-e^ 
omelet. 

Vegetable  Pudding  Omelet 

Put  hot  creamed  vegetables — -asparagus,  peas,  peas  and  carrot, 
or  any  preferred,  in  bottom  of  pudding  dish.  Cover  with  omelet 
mixture,  bake  in  moderate  oven  till  e^s  are  just  creamy  and 
delicately  browned;  serve  at  once. 

Puff  Omelet 
2  eggs  2  tablespns.  water  salt 

Mix  yolks,  salt  and  water;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
a  little  salt,  and  chop  into  them  the  yolk  mixture.  Turn  into  a 
hot  well  oiled  pan  and  set  on  an  asbestos  pad  back  from  the  di- 
rect heat  of  the  fire.  Cover  and  cook  until  the  top  will  not 
stick  when  lightly  touched  with  the  finger.  It  should  take  from 
15  to  20  m.  If  cooked  too  rapidly  the  omelet  will  fall.  Fold, 
or  slide  on  to  a  hot  dish  without  folding.  Serve  plain  or  with 
any  desired  accompaniment. 

Sauces  16,  18,44,  50  or  75  are  all  suitable  for  the  puff  omelet. 

If  the  oven  is  not  too  hot,  the    omelet    may   be  baked,  but  it  - 
should  be  set  on  something  to  keep  it  from  the  bottom  of  the 
oven  and  may  need  to  have  a  pan  turned  over  it.     May  score 
across  the  top  with  a  hot  iron  when  omelet  is  not  folded. 

One  egg  only,  makes  a  nice  little  omelet.  It  may  be  baked 
in  a  large  mufhn  ring  (or  two  small)  on  a  griddle  and  served  on  a 
thin  slice  of  toast,  with  or  without  cream  sauce. 

These  omelets  are  delightful  and  one  requires  but  little  prac- 
tice to  attain  perfection  in  them.  They  will  admit  of  the  same 
variations  as  the  French  omelet. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


208  THE    UURBL 

Fruit  juices  with  a  little  sugar  may  be  substituted  for  the 
water  sometimes.     The  water  may  be  omitted. 

Omelet  may  be  tinted  with  tomato,  spinach  or  other  colors 
for  variety. 

A  delightful  omelet  may  be  made  by  mixing  2  teaspns.  of  pine 
mit,  almond  or  steamed  nut  butter  with  the  water. 

Foam  Omelet 
Mix  beaten  yolks  with  }i  less  water  than  for  the  puff  omelet; 
cook  until  delicately  jellied,  spread  stiffly-beaten  whites  near  the 
edge  of  half  the  omelet;  set  on  top  grate  of  oven  to  warm.  Fold 
and  serve  at  once.  Omelet  may  be  dotted  with  jelly  before  put- 
ting the  whites  on.  Half  the  beaten  whites  may  be  mixed  with 
yolks  as  in  puf(  omelets. 

Savory  PuU  Omelet 

2  eggs  2-4tablespns.  chopped,  thor- 

3  tablespns.  cream  of  nut  oughly  soaked,  dried  olives 

butter  chopped  parsley 

Add  olives  and  parsley  to  yolk  mixture  and  fold  in  beaten 
whites. 

Orange  Omelet 

2  eggs  3  teaspns.  sugar 

3  tablespns.  orange  juice  salt 

bits  of  orange  pulp  with  sugar 

Beat  yolks,  add  2  teaspns.  of  sugar,   then  orange  juice  and 
■  then  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.     Cook,  spread  half  of  omelet  with 
orange  pulp  sprinkled  with  sugar,  fold,  serve. 

Another 
Add  orange  juice  and  grated  rind  with  a  little  vanilla  to  yolks, 
then  beaten  whites  as  usual.     When  baked,  fold  and  dust  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Qrape  Omelet 
Use  grape  juice  instead  of  water  in  puff  omelet.     Fold  and 
dust  with  powdered  sugar. 


TRUE   MEATS — EGGS  209 

TJnrouted  Nut  Butter  Omelet.   Oboioe 

2  teaspns.  steamed  nut  butter        i  }^  tablespn.  water        2  eggs 

Mix  nut  butter,  water,  yolks  and  a  little  salt;  add  stiffly-beaten 

whites  and  cook  as  puR  omelet,      i  %  tablespn.  of  cooked  cream 

of  raw  nut  butter  may  be  used  if  more  convenient. 

Almond  Butter  Omelet 
I  teaspn.  almond  butter  and  %  tablespn.   water  to  each  egg; 
combine  and  cook  as  above, 

BBEAD  AND  BAKED  OUSLETS 
Bread  and  baked  omelets  may  be  served  with  gravies,   sweet 
sauces  or  jelly,  or  with  green  peas  or  asparagus,   or  may  have 
corn,  peas,  etc.,  mixed  with  omelet  before  baking.     They  may 
be  made  of  milk,    cream   or   water.      Water   makes  the  lightest 
and  most  delicate  omelets.     Stale,  not  drj',  crumbs  are  used. 
Baked  Omelet 
2  eggs  2  tablespns.  water 

}^  teaspn.  Hour  i  teaspn.  oil 

salt 

Beat  all  tf^ether  or  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  separately,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  set.      Fold  or  serve  without  fold- 
ing.    A  few  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  when  desired. 
Bread  Omelet 

Pour  I  cup  boiling  water  over  i  cup  bread  crumbs;  let  stand 
until  soft.  Beat  6  eggs  just  enough  to  mix  them,  add  moistened 
bread  crumbs,  salt  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Turn  into  hot 
oiled  omelet  pan  and  bake  on  top  of  stove  or  in  oven.  This 
omelet  may  be  baked  in  muffin  rings  on  a  griddle  as  may  many 
omelets.     Try  molasses  sauce  with  it. 

Breed  vaA  Hilk  Omelet 

Soak  I  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  t  cup  of  sweet  milk;  add  yolks 
of  3  e^3  with  salt,  then  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Cook  as  puff 
omelet.      Serve  with  or  without  jelly  in  the  center. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 

I 


THE    LAUREL 


Oerman  Crumb  Omelet 


6  eggs  I  tablespn.  corn  starch 

1  cup  water  salt 

I  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  a  little  chopped  onion  and 

parsley 

Beat  yolks  of  e^s,  add  corn  starch  blended  with  water,  then 
crumbs,  salt,  onion  and  parsley.  Chop  in  stiffly-beaten  whites. 
Bake  in  oven. 

Hiss  Chaffee's  Cracker  Omelet 

%  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  fill  cup  with  milk;  when  crumbs  are 
soft,  add  well-beaten  yolks  of  3  e^p.   then  stiffly-beaten  whites. 

Cook  as  puff  omelet.     Fold  and  serve. 

Bread  Omelet  Pie 
Soak  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  in  i  cup  hot  milk  or  water,  add 
I  tablespoon  of  oil  or  butter,  I  teaspn.  each  chopped  onion  and 
parsley,  salt,  and  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Have  hot,  in  baking  dish, 
a  thin  layer  of  nicely  seasoned  drained  tomato,  or  trumese  sea- 
soned with  oil  and  temon  juice,  or  any  desired  filling:  cover  with 
the  omelet  and  bake  until  just  set. 

Breaded  Tomato  Omelet 
^  cup  of  crumbs  soaked  in  i  cup  strained  tomato.     Add  yolks 
of  3  eggs,   2  or  3  tablespns.   cream,   salt,   chopped  parsley  and 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.     Bake, 

Com  Staroh  Omelet.    Extra  Oood 
3  eggs  J^  teaspn.  salt 

ij^tablespn.  corn  starch  %  cup  milk 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  corn  starch  and  salt  tc^ether;  add  milk 
gradually;  beat  and  chop  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  e^^. 
Cook  as  puff  omelet. 

White  Sauoe  Omelet.   Uoequaled 
I  cup  rich  milk  2  tablespns.  fiour 

I  tablespn.  oil  or  butter  %  teaspn,  salt 

5  eggs  1  teaspn.  sugar 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — EGGS  211 

Heat  butter,  add  flour,  then  hot  milk  and  salt;  pour  over  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  fold  in  stiffly-beaten  whites;  turn  in  to 
well  oiled  omelet  pan  and  cook  as  puff  omelet. 

This  recipe  is  copied  almost  verbatim  from  "A  Book  for  a 
Cook,"  by  permission  of  the  Pillsbury  Flour  Mills  Company. 

Omelet  Soiiffl6 

6  ^gKS       3  tablespns.  pondered  sugar       i  tabtespn.  lemon  juice 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  add  the  lemon  juice, 
chop  in  stiffly-beaten  whites,  heap  in  buttered  baking  dish;  bake 
in  slow  oven  till  set.     The  yolks  of  4  e^s  only  may  be  used. 
Top  of  souffle  may  be  dusted  with  sugar  before  baking. 
i(  Omelet  SoMitl^  No.  2 
I  cup  flour  I  tablespn.  oil  or  butter 

I  pt.  milk  5  eggs 

I  tablespn.  sugar  H  teaspn.  salt 

Mix  flour,  butter  and  sugar,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  stirring. 
Boil  well. 

When  partially  cool  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites  with  salt;  bake  in  a  slow  oven;  serve  plain  or  with  maple 
syrup,  honey,  or  hard  sauce. 

Egg  Timbales 
4  eggs  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice 

K  teaspn.  salt  I  cup  water,  milk  or  thin  cream 

Beat  eggs,  salt  and  onion  juice  until  blended  only;  add  liquid 
gradually.  Divide  equally  among  6  well  buttered  timbale  molds 
(common  cups  will  serve  the  purpose).  Stand  in  a  pan  half  filled 
with  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  m.,  or  till 
firm  to  the  touch.  Turn  out  carefully  on  heated  platter  and 
pour  bread  or  tomato  sauce  around.  5  or  6  eggs  are  sometimes 
used. 

A  teaspn.  of  chopped  parsley  with  or  without  onion,  a  few 
peas  or  a  little  stewed  corn  may  be  added  to  e^s  before  putting 
into  cups. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


212  THE   LADREL 

The  timbales  may  be  served  on  rounds  of  toast  or  of  broiled 
trumese  or  nutmese. 

Bioe  and  Sgg  TimbaleB 
4.-6  hard  boiled  eggs  }4-i  cup  finely-sliced  celery 

2  cups  boiled  rice  i  tablespn.  chopped  parsley 

}i  cup  oil  salt 

Slice  eggs  and  chop  a  httle,  leaving  coarse;  mix  with  rice, 
celery,  parsley,  oil  and  salt  and  press  into  well  oiled  mold;  set  in 
pan  of  water  in  oven,  cover  and  bake  ^-i  hour.  Unmold  and 
serve  with  cream  sauce.  Celery  may  be  omitted  and  creamed 
celery  or  creamed  peas  served  with  the  loaf.  Individual  molds 
may  be  used. 

Soalloped  Eggs  and  Potatoes 
4  cold  boiled  potatoes  crumbs 

4  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  parsley 

I  pt.  white  sauce  salt 

Put  alternate  layers  of  sliced  potatoes  and  eggs  in  serving  dish, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  white  sauce  (with  parsley  stirred  through 
it)  over.  Cover  with  oiled  crumbs  and  bake.  Sage,  savory, 
onion  or  celery  salt  may  be  added. 

if  SoaUoped  Egga  and  Celery 
2  large  bunches  celery      5  hard  boiled  eggs       1  pt.  cream  sauce 
Slice  and  cook  celery  and  arrange  in  layers  with  the  cream 
sauce  and  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs,  in   oiled    baking  dish  with  the 
sauce  on  top.     Sprinkle  with  oiled  crumbs,  bake. 
Eggs  in  Perfection 
For  luncheon  or  for  an  invalid 
Poach  yolk  of  egg  and  rub  through  coarse  strainer;  beat  white 
stiff  with  a  trifle  of  salt  and  place  in  mound  on  a  gilt  edged  plate 
or  small  platter;  dot  with  riced  yolk,   sprinkle  with  salt,   press 
shghtly  salted,  green  tinted,  whipped  cream  through  pastry  tube 
in  small  roses  on  to  the  fop.     Serve  immediately  with  wafers  or 
long  strips  of  zwieback. 


ovGoo<^lc 


TRUE   MEATS — EGGS  213 

This  dish  gives  both  the  yolk  and  white  in  their  most  digesti- 
ble form.  A  little  thick  tomato  pulp  may  beaddedto  the  white. 
The  cream  may  be  dropped  on  with  a  teaspoon. 

ITNCOOEES  EQG  DISHES 

E^  creams,  in  their  great  variety,  are  the  most  delightful 
ways  of  serving  uncooked  eggs,  both  for  desserts  and  for  invalids. 

For  preparing  them,  the  ingredients  and  all  utensils  and  dishes 
should  be  as  nearly  ice  cold  as  possible. 

The  white  of  the  egg  should  be  beaten  very  stiff.  The  milk 
and  cream  should  have  been  sterilized. 

The  creams  must  be  prepared  just  at  the  time  of  serving  as 
they  become  liquid  and  lose  their  creamy  consistency  very  soon, 

Set  the  glass  or  dish  of  cream  on  toa  small  plate  with  a  doiley, 
and  if  possible  lay  a  delicate  flower  or  leaf  beside  it. 

The  recipei  are  given  for  one  egg  but  several  may  be  prepared 
at  once,  when  required,  by  using  a  cake  bowl  for  beating. 

Lemon  juice  added  to  the  white  renders  it  stiffer,  but  other 
juices  and  liquid.?  soften  it,  so  small  quantities  of  them  should  be 
used  and  they  should  be  mixed  in  very  lightly. 

High  colored  fruits  and  juices  should  be  poured  between  layers 
of  the  egg,  not  mixed  with  it. 

Lemon  Egg  Cream 

Sprinkle  a  trifle  of  salt  on  to  the  white  of  an  egg  in  a  bowl 
and  beat  with  a  revolving  e^  beater  to  a  very  stiff  froth;  then 
add  I  tablespn.  of  sugar  and  beat  until  smooth  and  creamy. 
Remove  the  e^  beater,  chop  in  lightly  2  teaspns.  of  lemon  juicu 
and  remove  ^  of  the  beaten  white  to  a  cold  plate.  Add  the 
yolk  and  another  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  to  the  white  remaining 
in  the  bowl.  Chop  them  in  lightly  and  quickly,  not  mixing 
very  thoroughly.  Drop  this  egg  mixture  into  a  cold  glass  and 
on  top  of  it  lay  the  white  which  was  taken  out.     Serve  at  once. 

All  of  the  white  may  be  beaten  with  the  yolk  if  preferred. 
The  whites  of  2  eggs  and  yolk  of  one  may  be  used. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


214  THE   LAUREL 

A  company  of  ladies  to  whom  I  once  served  this  cream  as  a 
dessert  pronounced  it  "the  most  delicate  boiled  custard"  they 
had  ever  tasted. 

Baspberry  Egg  Cream 

Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  with  I  teaspn,  of  su^r, 
chop  in  the  yolk  with  I  tablespn.  of  cream,  drop  a  spoonful  or 
two  into  a  gla55,  then  pour  over  a  little  rich  red  raspberry  juice 
or  drop  on  a  few  crushed  or  stewed  berries.  Continue  this  until 
all  the  egg  is  used.     Serve  at  once. 

A  little  lemon  juice  may  be  rfiixed  with  the  raspberry  if  de- 
sired. The  cream  may  be  omitted.  A  part  of  the  white  may 
be  left  for  the  top.  Strawberry,  grape,  currant  and  other  juices 
may  be  substituted  for  raspberrj".  Pineapple  and  orange  juices 
can  be  mixed  with  the  egg:  they  are  improved  by  combining  with 
lemon  juice. 

Banana  Egg  Cream 

Combine  i  or  2  tablespns.  of  fresh  banana  pulp  and  1  tablespn. 
of  cream  with  a  beaten  egg,  leaving  a  part  of  the  white  on  top 
if  desired. 

Vanilla  Egg  Cream 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  1-2  teaspns.  of  sugar,  reserving 
a  little  for  the  top:  chop  in  the  yolk  with  i  tablespn.  of  cream 
and  a  delicate  flavoring  of  vanilla:  serve  in  a  glass,  with  white 
on  top  of  yolk  mixture. 

Or,  for  a  change,  beat  the  white  and  yolk  separately,  add  half 

the  sugar  and  cream  to  each,  flavor  yolk  with  vanilla,  pile  white 

in  a  dainty  glass  dish  and  pour  yolk  mixture  over  it.     A  little  of 

the  white  may  be  chopped  with  the  yolk. 

Almond  Egg  Cream 

Use  1  teaspn.  almond  butter,  mixed  to  a  thick  cream  with 
water,  in  place  of  dairy  cream,  in  preceding  recipe.  Vanilla 
may  be  omitted. 

Haple  or  Honey  Egg  Cream 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg,  add   %-i   tablespn.  of  maple  syrup 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUE    MEATS — EGGS  2I5 

or  of  honey  {malt  extract  sometimes);  chop  in  yolk  and  if  desired, 
1  tablespn.  of  cream. 

Caramel  Egg 
Beat  white  of  l  egg,   add  2  teaspns.   of  sugar,   beat,  chop  in 
yolk;  pour  over,  stirring,  the  hot  liquid  made  from  boiling   lJ^-2 
tablespns.  of  cereal  coffee  in  %  cup  of  water  to  which  i  teaspn. 
of  melted  cocoa  butter  has  been  added.     Liquid  may  be  added 
cold,  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  instead  of  cocoa  butter. 
Egg  and  Milk 
Take  1-2  teaspns.  of  sugar  and  3  tablespns.  of  milk,  with  the 
beaten  e^  in  vanilla  cream. 

Egg  and  Hot  HilX 
Beat  whole  e^  with  1-2  teaspns.  of  sugar  until  creamy;  add  a 
few  drops  of  vanilla  and  pour  over  }4  cup  boiling  milk,  stirring. 
Carbonated  Egg 
Beat  an  egg,  all    together,    with    salt,    add    1-3    tablespns.  of 
cream  and  as  much  carbonated  water  as  desired. 

Fruit  juices  may  be  used,  with  or  without  dairy  or  nut  cream. 
The  carbonated  water  may  be  used  with  the  beaten  egg  only. 


EGG    P0.4CHER 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


MUSHROOMS 

The  delightful  flavors  of  mushrooms  make  them  a  valuable 
adjunct  to  the  vegetarian  dietary,  whether  or  not  they  are 
classed  with  meat  foods. 

No  one  need  to  be  in  ignorance  as  to  the  edible  ones  with  the 
many  reliable  books  now  published  in  regard  to  all  varieties. 
But  if  you  have  not  studied  the  subject,  consult  some  one  who  is 
a  judge  before  you  use  those  you  have  gathered.  Or,  use  only 
canned  ones  or  those  sold  in  the  markets.  Many  cases  of  sick- 
ness have  come  from  using  mushrooms  partially  decayed,  rather 
than  from  poisonous  varieties;  so  be  sure  to  reject  those  not  en- 
tirety sound. 

Mushrooms  will  not  admit  of  many  combinations  without  los- 
ing character.  The  simplest  ways  of  preparing  them  are  the  best. 
It  is  a  waste  of  time  to  peel  any  of  the  varieties  except  the 
puff  ball. 

Puff  ball  mushrooms  are  all  edible  when  gathered  at  the  white 
stage. 

Overcooking  toughens  mushrooms.  5 — 20  minutes  is  suffi- 
cient time  for  any,  except,  perhaps,  when  cooked  in  a  double 
boiler,  then  a  half  hour  may  not  be  too  long. 

Cream  with  water  develops  the  flavors  better  than  milk.  But- 
ter when  used  gives  the  same  result. 

When  necessarj-  to  wash  mushrooms,  rinse  up  and  down  in 
cold  water,  rub  the  caps  quickly,  shake  and  drain  in  a  colander. 
Often  they  will  require  rubbing  only,  with  a  soft  flannel.  Al- 
ways cut  off  a  thin  slice  from  the  end  of  the  stalk  and  throw  it 
away. 

When  the  caps  only  are  to  be  used  in  a  dish,  chop  the  stems 

and  imperfect  caps  and  cook  for  soups  and  sauces.     Mushrooms 

arS  not  expensive,  as  a  few  fresh  or  dried  ones  go  a  long  way  for 

flavoring.      Unless  plentiful,   do  not  use  mushrooms  in  timfales 

(216) 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


TRUMESE  PIE,  P.    167 


ovGoo<^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


MUSHROOMS  217 

or  roasts  but  in  the  sauces,  where  they  will  count.     In  the  rec- 
ipes, fresh  ones  are  meant  unless  canned  ones  are  mentioned. 

Broilsd  Htubrooms 

Remove  stems,  place  in  fine  wire  broiler,  turn  the  gills  first  to 
the  fire  for  5  m.,  then  the  other  side.  Put  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter in  the  center  of  each  mushroom,  sprinkle  with  salt,  broil 
5  m.  Lay  carefully  on  to  pieces  of  toast  or  thin  toasted  wafers 
or  slices  of  broiled  tnimese,  skin  side  up,  and  serve  at  once. 
Melted  butter  may  be  poured  over  mushrooms  on  toast  instead 
of  putting  butter  into  them  while  broiling.  Caps  are  some- 
times dipped  in  salt  and  olive  oil  and  broiled  after  standing  in  a 
cold  place  for  an  hour.  The  heat  should  not  be  too  intense  for 
broiling. 

Baked  HusbroomB 

Cut  off  part  of  stems,  lay  tops  down  in  shallow  baking  pan, 
dust  with  salt,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  each  mushroom, 
bake  20  m.  in  hot  oven.  Serve  in  pan,  or  on  toast  with  sauce 
from  pan  poured  over. 

Steamed  Muahrooms 

Put  mushroonis  in  saucepan  or  double  boiler  with  salt  and  no 
water.  Cover  close,  cook  20-30  m.  Add  hot  cream  or  butter 
mixed  with  a  Httle  flour,  heat.  Serve  on  toast,  cutlets  of  corn 
meal  porridge,  rice  cutlets  or  slices  of  broiled  trumese.  Butter, 
2  tablespns.  to  the  pound  of  mushrooms,  may  be  added  when 
put  to  cooking  and  no  milk  or  cream  used. 

Stewed  HnBhToomB 
Cut  mushrooms  into  sixths  or  eighths  or  slices.     Cook  in  small 
quantity  of  water  10-15  tn.,  add  cream,  or  milk  and  butter,  enough 
to  moisten  toast.     Heat,  serve  on  toast. 

ir  Creamed  Hnsbroomi 

Stew  mushrooms  in  a  larger  quantity  of  water,  add  cream,  and 

thicken  to  the  consistency  of  very  heavy  cream.    Serve  in  dainty 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


2t8  THE    LAUREL 

shells  of  pastry  crust,    or   on    toast  or  wafers,  surrounded  with 
green  peas  or  not. 

A  small  quantity  of  mushrooms  will  go  a  long  way  in  this  way. 

Hiuliroom  Stew 

Add  cooked  fresh  or  dried  mushrooms  to  thickened  consomm^. 

Serve  over  rice  or  macaroni  or  in  rice  border. 

Stewed  Canned  Hiuhrooins 

Drain  mushrooms,  if  lai^e  cut  into  quarters  and  put  into  rich 

egg  or  cream  sauce  without  further  cooking. 

Canned  mushrooms  (except  home  canned)  are  esteemed  more 
for  the  feeling  between  the  teeth  than  for  their  flavor  and  are 
at  their  best  in  pies,  scallops  and  creams. 
Dried  Miuhrooma 
Wash  dried  mushrooms  well,  soak  4-12  hours  in  water  or  milk, 
simmer  for  5  m.  only,  in  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  soaked. 
Use  in  soups,  sauces  or  stews,  in  small  quantities,  as  the  flavor 
is  very  rich. 

Fiokled  Miubrooms 
Soak  mushrooms  pickled  in  salt,  for  24  hours,   changing  the 
water  several  times;  drain,  and  if  to  be  cooked  in  batter  dr>-  be- 
tween the  folds  of  a  towel.      Use  cutlets  of  trumese  batter  with 
them,  or  with  soaked  dried  mushrooms. 
PoH  Balls 
Pare  and  cut  puff  ball  mushrooms  into  half-inch  slices.     Sim- 
mer in  butter  or  olive  oil,   with  or  without  dipping  in  egg,  and 
season  with  salt.     Or,  stew  and  serve  as  other  mushrooms. 
Mnahrooms  in  Bioe  Blngs 
Shape  cups  of  steamed  or  boiled  rice  in  muffin  rings,  fill  with 
creamed  mushrooms  or  Boundary  Castle  sauce,  protose  and  mush- 
rooms k  la  creme,  thin,  or  with  mushroom  stew. 
Sister  MoBumie's  Chop  Seuey 
shredded  cabbage  mushrooms  in  quarters  or 

shredded  celery  eighths 

chopped  onion  cream,     salt 


a  little  butter  if  used 


.b,Goo<^lc 


MUSHROOMS  2ig 

Put  into  close  covered  vessel  in  oven,  bake  25-35  "•■  Onion 
may  be  omitted. 

Kiuhroonu  &  la  CrAme 

Use  all  mushrooms  in  recipe  for  celery  and  musbrooms  k  la 
crSme  p.  IIS>  <^''  '''I  fresh  mushrooms  in  trumeseand  mushrooms 
&  la  crSme  p.  165. 

Tteeb  Husbrooms—Under  Qlaaa  Qlobe  with  Cream 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  porcelain  dish  with  toast.  On  the 
toast  pile  mushrooms,  gills  down,  several  rows  high,  sprinkling 
with  salt.  Pour  J^-K  cupof  cream  on  to  the  mushrooms,  cover 
with  the  globe  or  bell  and  simmer  on  the  top  of  the  stove  20-30  m. 

The  cover  is  removed  after  the  plate  is  placed  before  the  guest. 
This  quantity  is  served  for  luncheon  when  the  dish  is  the  prin- 
cipal one  of  the  meal.  For  a  single  course,  a  smaller  portion  of 
toast  would  be  required  and  not  more  than  4  or  5  mushroom  caps. 

The  dishes  may  be  baked  in  the  oven. 
Hasbroom  Timbales 

I  cup  stewed  mushrooms  in  pieces        2  level  tablespns.  flour 

t  tablespn.  butter  salt 

I  tablespn.  chopped  onion  H  cup  consomme  or  milk 

I  tablespn.  chopped  parsley  2  yolks  of  eggs 

I  tablespn.  milk 

Simmer  onion  in  butter,  add  parsley,  flour,  and  milk  or  con- 
somme. Remove  from  fire,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  the 
tablespn.  of  milk,  salt  and  mushrooms.  Fill  small  molds  which 
have  been  garnished  as  desired,  bake  in  pan  of  water  20  m.  or 
until  set.  Unmold  on  to  rounds  of  toast,  surround  with  thick 
mushroom  sauce. 

The  timbales  may  be  made  of  canned  mushrooms  and  served 
with  rich  cream  sauce. 

Hushroom  and  Oystdr  Plant  Pie 
Sauirt — 2%  tablespns.  melted  but-      r  J4  cup  water  (part  mushroom 
2^-3  tablespns.  flour       [ter      ^  cup  cream         [liquor  if  any 
salt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


320  THE   LAUREL 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter,  pourboiling  water  over,  stirring,  add 
cream  and  salt. 

Put  cooked  oyster  plant  and  mushrooms  in  pieces  (3i  oyster 
plant,  X  mushrooms),  I  pt.  in  all,  into  baking  dish.  Pour  sauce 
over,  cover  with  universal  or  pastry  crust  and  proceed  as  in  tru- 
mese  pie. 

Substitute  stewed  potatoes  for  oyster  plant  with  either  crust, 
or  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of  mashed  lentils,  or  use  celery  in 
place  of  oyster  plant  and  cover  with  a  rice  crust. 
ir  Cream  of  Fresb  Hnsbroom  Soup 

Cook  chopped  imperfect  caps  and  stems  of  mushrooms  in  water 
5-IO  m.  Add  more  water  if  necessary  and  heavy  cream;  thicken 
with  flour  to  the  consistency  of  heavy  cream.  Add  salt  and  a 
few  cooked  caps  if  desired,  or,  from  1-3  caps  may  be  placed  in 
each  dish  when  the  soup  is  served. 

This  soup  cannot  be  improved  upon. 

ir  Boundary  Castle  Soup 
Add  sufficient  water  with  salt  to  Boundary  Castle  sauce  to 
make  of  the  consistency  of  soup.     Very  delicious. 

Directions  for  canning  and  drying  mushrooms  pp.  71  and  72. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


8TUFFINOS  AND  DRESSINGS 


The  quantity  of  liquid,  if  any,  must  be  determined  by  the  pur- 
pose the  dressing  is  to  be  used  for  and  the  dryness  of  the  ingre- 
dients.    As  a  rule,  dressings  are  better  without  e^s. 

Dressings  may  sometimes  be  put  over  the  top  of  suitable  meat 
pies  for  the  crust. 

They  may  also  be  put  into  the  bottom  of  a  well  oiled  tin  or 
pudding  dish  with  slices  of  or  minced  nut  meat  or  mashed  leg- 
umes on  top,  baked  and  inverted  on  a  platter  or  chop  tray  for 
serving;  garnished  with  halves  of  nut  meats,  accompanied  of 
course  with  a  suitable  gravy. 

Whole  pine  nuts,  or  broken  nuts  of  different  kinds  may  some- 
times be  used  in  stuffings. 

Simple  Dreaslng 
Dip  slices  of  stale  bread  into  salted  hot  vk^ater  quickly.  Lay 
them  in  a  baking  tin  and  sprinkle  delicately  with  powdered  leaf 
S^e  or  savory.  When  a  sufficient  number  of  layers  is  prepared, 
sprinkle  with  crumt)s  and  a  little  more  u^ter  if  necessary.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  20  m.,  or  until  browned  over  the  top. 
Serve  on  a  platter  with  some  ragout  over  it. 

Or,  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  and  send  to  the  table  to  be  served 
with  the  meat  dish  with  gravy. 

Savory  Dressing 
Crumbs,  egg  or  not,  butter  or  oil,   parsley,  thyme,  sage,  sum- 
mer savory,  onion  juice  and  salt. 

Danish  Dressing 
3  large  tart  apples,  chopped  i  cup  English  currants 

I  cup  cooked  rice  a  very  little  thyme,  sage  or 

3  chopped  onions  salt  [savory 

i^  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  a  little  melted  butter 

hot  water  if  necessary 
(221) 


ovGoo<^lc 


222  THE   LAUREL 

Onion  and  Parsley  Stottiag 
^  cups  stale  bread  crumbs        2  tablespns.  chopped  parsley 
3  onions  chopped  fine  2  or  3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter 

A  few  sage  leaves  may  be  substituted  for  the  parsley  for  a  s^e 
and  onion  stuffing. 

Celery  Stnfling 
Equal  parts  bread  crumbs  and  finely-sliced  celery,  salt  and 
butter. 

Nut  and  Bafsin  Dressii^ 

To  bread  crumbs,  melted  butter,    thyme,    sa^e.    grated  onion 

and  salt,  add  a  few  seeded  raisins  and  chopped  English  walnuts. 

Vegetable  StoffiDg 

%,  cup  each  mashed  green  peas,  onions  in  oil,  stewed  celery, 

stewed  carrot  and  finely-sliced  raw  celery,  salt,  i  or  2  eggs. 

Cheetnut  Stofting 

Mashed  boiled  chestnuts,  salt,  butter  or  a  little  heavy  cream. 

Black  Walnut  and  Potato  Staffing 
I  qt.  mashed  potato  3-3  tablespns.  grated  onion 

yi-\  cup  chopped  black  wal-  lA  teaspn.  salt 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


HEAT  AND  VEGETABLE  GRAVIES  AND 

SAUCES 


"Perfection  in  the  art  o(  cookery  is  attainable  only  by  length- 
ened experience  and  careful  study  of  the  qualities  of  foods  and  the 
application  of  sauces  and  seasonings.  //  is  chiefly  in  knowing  hew 
to  makf  and  apply  sauces  Ihat  a  cook  shows  her  skill." 

—Old   Writer. 

SuggestionB 

Use  pastry  fiour  for  gravies  and  sauces. 

The  sauce  should  be  a  little  more  salt  than  the  food  with  which 
it  is  to  be  served. 

As  a  rule,  the  sauce  should  be  poured  around,  not  over  the 
food. 

No  positive  general  rule  can  be  given  for  thickening,  as  flour 
varies  and  different  kinds  of  liquid  require  different  proportions. 
Also  the  evaporation  of  liquids,  in  different  quantities,  varies. 

About  one  tablespoon  of  flour  may  be  calculated  for  each  cup 
of  water;  but  for  milk,  cream  or  tomato  that  amount  is  quite  too 
much. 

Do  not  make  sauces  too  thick.  A  sauce  should  not  be  a  paste. 
The  consistency  of  medium  cream  is  about  right  for  nearly  all; 
some  should  be  thinner,  and  a  few  slightly  thicker. 

As  they  thicken  by  standing,  make  sauces  thinner  at  first  than 
required. 

A  Roux  is  a  mixture  of  oil  or  butter,  and  flour,  heated  together 
for  thickening  sauces.     It  is  used  in  the  following  manner; 

Heat  the  oil,  without  browning,  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  flour, 
rab  smooth  with  wire  batter  whip,  then  add  liquid,  hot,  stirring 
until  smooth.  The  sauce  should  come  to  the  boiling  point  only 
and  be  removed  at  once  from  the  fire  as  otherwise  the  oil  will 
separate. 

[223] 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


224  "^f*^   LAUREL 

Adding  floor  to  hot  oil  cooks  it  more  perfectly  than  a  boiling 
liquid  and  obviates  the  raw  flour  taste. 
Directions  for  flavoring,  pp.  24—27. 

1  FlBin  Nat  Bauoe 

1  tablespn.  raw  nut  butter,  i  pt.  water.  Mix  butter  with 
water,  boi!  %  hr.,  add  salt  with  water  to  make  1% — 2  cups; 
thicken  slightly. 

Serve  with  nut  and  legume  dishes,  over  boiled  rice  and  with 
some  vegetables.     Steamed  nut  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  raw. 

2  Kut  Onion  Sauoe 
Cook  sliced  onions  with  plain  sauce. 

8    Nut  and  Tomato  Sauoe 
Use  %  tomato  instead  of   alt    water   in  plain  sauce.     A  little 
browned  flour  sometimes. 

4    Hut  Ghravy  tor  Boasts 
Cook  browned  flour,  onion,  garlic,  bayleaf  and  a  very  little  to- 
mato with  plain  sauce.     A  little  sage  occasionally. 

S    Hat  and  Tomato  Bisque  Sanoe 
Thicken  nut  and  tomato  bisque,  p.  93,  slightly. 

May  use  steamed  or  roasted  nut  butter,  nutmese,  or  the  water 
from  boiled  peanuts  with  a  little  lemon  juice,  for  nut  sauces. 

6    Simple  Brown  Sanoe 

2  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter         1-2  teaspns.  browned  flour 

3  tablespns.  flour  i  pt,  water 

salt 
Follow  directions  for  making  sauce  with  roux. 

7    Brown  Onion  Banee 
Simmer  without  browning  sliced  or  chopped  onion  in  oil,  be- 
fore adding  flour  to  brown  sauce. 

8    Savory  Sauoe 
Add  a  delicate  flavoring  of  leaf  sage  to  brown  or  brown  onion 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES  22$ 

9    Boast  Gravy-'par  exoelleooe 

A  little  tomato,  onion,  a  trifle  of  thyme  and  bay  leaf  with  nut 
cream  in  brown  sauce.     Simmer,  strain. 

10    ConaonmiA  Sanoe 

Consomm^  with  more  browned  flour  and  tomato  or  onion, 
thickened.     Roux  may  be  used. 

1 1    Oeler;  ConaommA  Sauce 

>4  cup  finely-sliced  celery  2  tablespns.  flour 

2  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  t  pt.  consomme 

Add  celery  to  hot  oil,  then  flour  and  hot  consomm^  with  more 
salt  if  necessary. 

it  12    STerTbody*8  Favorite 
?1  tablespn.  butter  iji-a  tablespns.  white  flour 

i/^  tablespn.  oil  iH  cup  boiling  water 

/^-t  clove  garlic  H  cup  milk 

t-2  teaspns.  browned  flour  salt 

H  tablespn.  chopped  parsley 

Throw  crushed  or  finely-chopped  garlic  into  oil  and  proceed 
as  for  sauce  with  roux,  adding  parsley  last,  of  course.  The  sauce 
is  nice  without  the  parsley.  Raw  or  steamed  nut  butter  may  be 
used. 

18   Almond  and  Tomato  Cream  Saooe-starohlem 

j4  tablespn.  almond  butter  i  cup  strained  tomato 

}4  teaspn.  salt 

Rub  butter  smooth  with  tomato,  heat  to  boiling,  add  salt  and 
serve. 

This  sauce  heated  with  stewed  okra  makes  a  delightful  omelet 
sauce,  or  side  dish,  or  dressing  for  trumese,  toast  or  rice. 

it  14    Old  Fashioned  Hilk  Gravy 

I  pt.  rich  milk  (part  cream)  2-2 >^  tablespns.  browned 

flour  No.  I 

Blend  the  flour  with  cold  water  or  milk,  stir  into  boiling  milk, 
boil  up  and  add  salt.     Or,  put  i-ij^  tablespn,  of  oil  in  a  sauce 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


226  THE   LAUREL 

pan;  when  just  hot  add  the  flour,  then  hot  milk,  stir  until  smooth 
and  add  salt. 

i(  16    Sour  Cream  Oravr 

J^  cup  sour  cream  >^-r  teaspn.  browned  flour 

1  tablespn,  flour  boiling  water 

salt 

Mix  cream  and  flour,  pour  boiling  water  over,  stirring  constantly^ 
to  make  of  the  desired  consistency;  boil  thoroughly,  add  salt. 
serve.     The  gravy  may  be  flavored. 

16    Cream  or  White  Bauoe 

2  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  i  J^  tablespn.  flour 
(or  I  tablespn.  solid  butter)                    i  pt.  milk 

salt 

Follow  directions  for  sauce  with  roux.  Or,  heat  milk,  with- 
out oil,  in  an  oiled  frying  pan,  to  just  boiling;  add  slowly,  stir- 
ring, flour  blended  with  water  or  milk.  Boil  up  well,  remove 
from  fire,  add  salt. 

%-H  cream  and  %  water  may  be  used  instead  of  milk. 

For  vegetables  the  sauce  should  be  thinner.  A  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  improves  the  flavor  with  carrots  and  turnips. 

ir  17    Tomato  Cream  Sauce 
Especially  suitable  for  mashed  peas  or  sweet  potatoes. 
Add  K  cup  rich  strained  tomato  and  more  salt  to  each  pint 
of  cream  sauce. 

16    Cream  of  Tomato  Sauce 
I  pt.  strained  tomato  K  cupcream  ( }4  cup  if  thin) 

I    tablespn.  our  i  teaspn.  salt 

Thicken  boiling  tomato,  add  cream,  remove  from  fire,  add  salt. 
Do  not  add  the  salt  before  the  cream. 

19    Cream  of  Tomato  Sauce-Sister  Howard's 

i-i^  tablespn.  butter  i  pt.  tomato 

finely-sliced  onion  2-3  tablespns.  cream 

i-ij«  tablespn.  flour  salt' 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


GRAVfES  AND  SAiyCES  52/ 

Simmer  onion  in  butter  without  browning,  add  fl^ur,  hot 
tomato,  cream  and  salt. 

CBEAU  SAUCE  VABIATIONS 

20  Hint  Cream — Add  chopped  mint  to  cream  sauce.  Use 
for  green  peas,  mashed  dry  green  peas,  poached  or  hard 
boiled  e^s  and  other  dishes. 

31  Cream  of  Celery — Use  water  in  which  celery  wascooked, 
with  cream,  or  milk  and  oil  or  butter,  for  cream  sauce,  and  add 
stewed  celery. 

32  Cream  of  Onion — Add  stewed,  crushed,  boiled  onions'  to 
cream  sauce.  Or,  add  cooked  onions  to  roux  in  pan,  then  add 
milk.  Or.  simmer  without  browning,  chopped  raw  onions  in  oil, 
before  adding  flour. 

23  Cream  of  Paraley^Chopped  parsley  in  cream  sauce. 

24  Cream  of  Spinach— Pour  cream  sauce  gradually  stirring, 
into  macerated,  cooked  spinach;  heat;  strain  through  wire 
strainer  if  necessary. 

25  Xjavender — Finely-chopped,  cooked  purple  cabbage  in 
cream  sauce. 

26  Gtolden — Mashed  or  grated  cooked  carrots  in  cream  sauce, 
with  or  without  onion  and  garlic. 

27  Brown  Cream — Use  i-i  ^  (according  to  brownness)  table- 
spn.  browned  flour  in  cream  sauce  recipe. 

28  Egg  Cream — ^Add  yoHcs  of  2  eggs  to  each  pint  of  cream 
sauce. 

39  Egg  Cream  Ho.  3 — I  tablespn.  butter,  i  teaspn.  flour,  i 
cup  milk,  2  beaten  eggs,  salt,  i-2  tablespns.  lemon  juice  if  de- 
sired, chopped  parsley. 

SO  Egg  Cream—non-starch — For  stewed  cucumbers,  oyster 
plant,  asparagus  and  carrots.  To  each  pint  of  vegetables,  yi  ta- 
blespn. butter,  Yi  cup  thin  cream  or  rich  milk,  yolk  of  i  egg, 
salt.  Richer  cream  may  be  used  and  butter  omitted.  Use  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  only  for  a  pint  of  cream. 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


228  THE    LAUREL 

81  SgB — Add  hard  boiled  e^s  in  dice  or  coarsely-chopped, 
to  cream  sauce. 

92    Bread  Smoe 
H  cup  fine  dry  bread  crumbs  i  pt.  dairy  or  nut  milk 

(or  >^-i  cup  stale  crumbs)  salt 

Soak  crumbs  in  half  the  milk  in  double  boiler  till  soft;  beat 
until  smooth;  add  salt  and  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  heat, 
strain  through  coarse  strainer,  if  necessary.  If  the  milk  is  not 
rich  a  little  butter  may  be  added  just  before  serving.  Browned 
coarse  crumbs  (tine  croutons)  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  dish 
with  which  the  sauce  is  served. 

Flavor  sauce  with  onion,  onion  and  sage,  chives,  celery  salt, 
or  onion  and  parsley,  sometimes. 

88    Bread  and  Bean  Sauce— Sister  Elale's 
I  cup  mashed  beans  i  %  cup  rich  milk 

H-}^  cup  bread  crumbs  (from  salt  i  teaspn.  flour 

rising  bread  if  you  have  it )  salt 

r  tablespn.  butter  if  desired 

Milk  from  raw  nut  butter  gives  another  sauce. 
84   Drawn  Batter 
t/^-3  tablespns.  butter  i  cup  boiling  water 

I  tablespn.  flour  salt 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  pour  boiling  water  over,  heat 
to  boiling,  remove  from  lire  and  add  salt;  or,  follow  directions 
for  sauce  with  roux. 

VABXATION8  OF  DRAWN  BUTTEE 
38    Cream — Use   l^  cup  milk  instead  of  water  in  preceding 
recipe, 

86    Tomato — Use  ^-j4  cup  of  strained  tomato,  and  water  to 
make  i%  cup,  in  drawn  butter.    Flavor  with  onion  if  desired. 
37  Egg  — Chopped  or  sliced  hard  boiled  e^s  in  drawn  butter. 
88    Sour — }^  to  I  tablespn.  lemon  juice  to  each  cup  of  liquid 
n  drawn  butter. 


;abyGoO<^lc 


GRAVIES   AND   SAUCES  229 

39  Onion — Add  crushed  boiled  onions  to  drawn  butter.  Use 
sometimes  i^-ij^  tablespn.  browned  flour 'No.  i,  instead  of 
white  flour.  May  simmer  (without  browning)  sliced  or  chopped 
raw  onion  in  butter  before  adding  flour. 

40    Drawn  Batter  Sanoe 

Add  %  cup  of  cream  to  plain  drawn  butter. 

41    Xmerald  Parsley  Sauce 

Add  3-4  tablespns.  chopped  parsley  to  drawn  butter  of  i  pt.  of 
water.  2  or  3  teaspns.  lemon  juice  may  be  added,  also  a  Httle 
mint  and  sugar  sometimes. 

A  nice  way  to  prepare  the  parsley  is  to  wash  it  well  and  boil 
10  m.  in  salted  water,  drain,   chop  and  bruise  to  a  pulp.     Milk 
with  less  flour  may  be  used  for  the  sauce. 
42    Tarragon  Sauce 

Substitute  finely-chopi>ed  fresh  tarragon  lor  parsley  in  preced- 
ing recipe.     Use  a  little  lemon  juice  if  desired. 

if    48    Sauoe  tor  Meat  and  Vegetable  Pies 

Rub  together  c;  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter  and  ^to6 
tablespns.  of  flour;  add  i  qt.  boiling  water,  boil  well,  add  salt. 
Or,  make  as  sauce  with  roux. 

Allow  a  few  slices  of  onion  to  stand  in  sauce  for  10  m,,  then 
strain  and  it  is  nice  for  the  table  for  any  use. 

44    Qrary  for  Bhode  Island  Johnny  Cakes 
corn  meal  porridge,  macaroni  and  rice. 
I  tablespn.  oil  i  level  teaspn.  white  flour 

I  teaspn.  butter  %  cup  water 

I  level  teaspn.  browned  flour  salt 

a  little  powdered  sage 

45    Cream  of  Z«entU  Gravy 
For  rice,  macaroni  or  cutlets  of  corn  meal  porridge. 

I  cup  mashed  lentils  i  teaspn.  flour 

I  cup  rich  milk  or  thin  cream  salt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


230  THE   LAUREL 

Thicken  milk  with  flour  blended  with  water  and  combine  with 
lentils;  heat.  Add  finely-sliced  celery  and  chopped  parsley  for 
some  dishes. 

46    Nut  and  Lentil  Gravy 

}i  cup  lentils  (larere  cup-'  H-V^  cup  strained  tomato 

ful  after  cooking)  'A  tablespn.  nut  butter 

I  cup  water 

Mix  nut  butter  with  water  and   add    with    tomato  to  mashed 

lentils.      Heat  to  boiling,  strain  through  fine  strainer,  add  salt. 

47    Swiss  Lentil  Gravy 

I  cup  mashed  lentils  slices  of  onion 

1-2  teaspns.  browned  flour  i  teaspn.  white  flour 

salt 

Heat  lentils,  browned  flour  and  onion  together  for  lo  m. 
Thicken  with  white  flour  stirred  smooth  with  water.  Add  salt, 
strain,  reheat. 

48    Vegetable  Gravy 

3  tablespns.  chopped  onion  5  tabiespns.  white  flour 

3  tabtespns.  finely-slice  celery        1-2  teaspns.  browned  flour 
2  tablespns.  urated  carrot  /4  cup  strained  tomato 

I  clove  garlic,  crushed  3?^  cups  boiling  water 

1  large  bay  leaf  a  trifle  of  thyme,     salt 

5  tablespns.  oil  i  tablespn.  chopped  parsley 

Simmer   vegetables  and  bay  leaf  in  oil  for  10  m.  Do  not  brown. 

Add  brown  and  white  flour,   tomato  and  water;  boil.     Remove 

bay  leaf;  add  salt,   thyme  and  parsley:  serve.     Celery  tops  may 

be  used  instead  of  sliced  stalks.     The  gravy  may  be  strained. 

49    Olive  Sauce 

2  tablespns.  olive  oil  i  pt.  water,  milk,  or  raw  nut  butter 
I  tablespn.  chopped  onion  milk  (i  tablespn.  raw  nut  butter 
i-iK  tablespn.  flour                    cooked  in  water  20  m.  to  J^hr.) 

I  teaspn.  browned  flour  lo-i^  ripe  olives 

1-2  tablespns.  lemon  juice  if  desired 

Prepare  sauce  in  the  usual  manner  and  add  shced  or  chopped 
olives  just  before  serving. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES  23I 

60    Olive  and  Hat  Batter  Sauce 
For  Rhode  Island  Johnny  cakes,   corn   meal  porridge,   macaroni 
and  potatoes. 

Make  thin  cream  of  roasted  nut  butter,  boil  up,  add  chopped 
or  sliced  ripe  olives  and  salt  if  necessary.  A  little  tomato  may 
be  used. 

For  a  cold  sauce,  stir  nut  butter  smooth  ■with  tomato  or  water 
and  add  chopped  olives. 

SI    Cream  ol  Freah  Uaabroom  Sauce 
Cook  chopped  stems  and  imprerfect  mushrooms  in  salted  water 

for  10  m.    Add  water.    Thicken  a  little  more  than  for  an  ordinary 

sauce.     Add  a  little  heavy  cream,  heat. 

Mushrooms  may  be  cooked  for  20  m.  in  milk  and  butter  in  a 

double  boiler  or  on  back  of  range. 

82    Hashroom  uid  AsparaguB  Sauce 
Use  asparagus  liquor  for  part  of  the  liquid  in  the  preceding 
recipe  and  add  a  few  cooked  asparagus  tips. 

53    Boundary  Castle  (Fresh  Uuahroom}  Sauce 
For  timbales,  mashed  lentils,  macaroni,  rice,  potatoes  or  toast. 
broiled  trumese,  croquettes,  patties  and  corn  meal  porridge. 

2  tablespns.  oil  2  tablespns.  tomato 

3  tablespns.  chopped  onion  H--1  teaspn.  salt 

34  tablespn.  browned  flour  H-i  cup  chopped  mushrooms 

2j4  tablespns.  white  flour  i  tablespn.  chopped  parsley 

Simmer  but  do  not  brown  onion  in  oil  for  10  m.,  add  browned 
and  white  flour  mixed,  then  tomato,  with  water  for  thick  sauce. 
Now  add  with  their  liquor,  the  mushrooms  which  have  been 
cooked  for  10  m,  and  water  to  make  of  the  right  consistency, 
with  the  salt  and  parsley. 

When  served  with  timbales  decorated  with  truffles,  use  juice 
of  truffles  in  sauce. 


.b,_CjOOt^lc 


232  THE    LAUREL 

64    Italian  (DriBd  Htubroom)  Sauce 

2  tablespns.  butter  and  oil  mushroom  liquor  with  hot 

2  tablespns.  chopped  onion  rich  milk  to  make  i  pt. 

I  clove  of  g;arlic,  crushed  )i  cup  dried  mushrooms 

1^-2  tablespns.  flour  salt 

Heat  oil,  add  onion  and  garlic,  simmer,  add  flour,  then  liquid, 
and  lastly  the  mushrooms  which  have  been  soaked  for  2  hours, 
chopped,  and  cooked  for  S  m.  tn  the  water  in  which  they  were 
soaked.  Serve  sometimes  over  split  biscuit,  on  a  platt«r,  with 
slices  of  broiled  trumese  on  top,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 
For  variety,  add  i  teaspn.  browned  flour  and  2  tablespns. 
tomato  to  the  sauce. 

For  Italian  Tomato  Sauce,  use  %  cup  tomato  instead  of  the 
mushrooms. 

SS    Caimed  Uushroom  Sauce 
2  tablespns.  oil  or  butter  a  trifle  of  thyme 

2  ta.b1espns.  onion,  chopped  a  very  little  sage 

1  clove  garlic,  crushed  H  cup  sliced,  canned  mushrooms 
1 H-2  tablespns.  flour  i  pt.  liquid — water  and 

2  teaspns.  browned  flour  mushroom  liquor 
)i  cup  tomato                                  salt 

Proceed  as  in  other  similar  recipes. 

if  66    Dried  Uushroom  Brown  Sauce 

3  level  tablespns.  butter  J4  cup  strong  dried  mushroom 
2  level  tablespns.  flour                  1%  cup  milk  [liquor 

2  level  teaspns.  browned  flour      salt 

May  add  a  few  chopped  dried  mushrooms  cooked  $  m.  after 
soaking  4-5  hours.     A  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  liked. 
it  S7    Sauce  Imperial 
I  qt.  stewed  tomatoes  i  tablespn.  chopped  onion 

1  or  2  large  bay  leaves  ^  of  a  lemon,  rind  and  all 

2  large  sprigs  thyme  2  tablespns.  oil 

(or  H  teaspn.  dry  thyme)         2)^  or  3  tablespns.  flour 

salt 

Cook  all  except  flour,    oil   and    parsley   together   for  20  m. 

Strain,  heat  oil,  add  flour  and  the  strained   tomato  mixture. 

Then  add  1  X  to  i  J4  teaspn.  salt  (or  enough  to  destroy  the  acid 

taste  of  the  tomato),  and  the  parsley. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


GRAVIES    AND    SAUCES  233 

it  S8    Chili  Bauoe 
4  qts.  B tewed  tcimatoes  1^-3^  tablespns.  salt 

2-3  pints  finely-sliced  onion  i  J^-a  tablespns.  celery  salt 

I  cup  sugar  4  large  bay  leaves 

iH  cup  lemon  juice  J^-jTteaspn.  thyme 

Cook  tomato,   onion  and  bay  leaf  together  until  onions  are 
tender;  then  add 'dry  ingredients  (which  have  been  mixed  to- 
gether),  and  the  lemon  juice.     Boil  up  well,  put  into  jars  and 
seal.     Thyme  and  bay  leaf  may  omitted. 
it  69    Tomato  Catsup 
a  qts.  strained,  stewed  tomato  4.  tablespns.  sugar 

I  large  head  of  celery  4  teaspns.  salt. 

Slice  celery  very  fine,  add  with  sugar  and  salt  to  the  boiling 
tomatoes;  cook  until  the  celery  is  tender  and  the  sauce  rather 
thick. 

60    Other  Catsups 
Very  delightful  sauces  may  be  made  by  cooking  a  consomm^, 
the  nut  French  soup  and  other  suitable  soups  down  thick. 
61    Peas  and  Carrot  Bauoe 
Add  cooked  carrots  cut  into  dice  or  fancy  shapes,  and  cooked 
green  peas,  to  thickened  white  soup  stock,  p.  77.     They  may  be 
added  to  cream  sauce  or  drawn  butter. 
62    Fink  Sanoe 
Fruit  color,  or  rich  red  beet  juice  in  drawn  butter  or  white 
sauce.     Sauce  may  be  flavored  with  onion,  garlic  and   lemon 
juice  or  with  celery. 

63    Apple  and  Onion  Sauce 
Simmer  chopped  onion  in  oil   5-10  m.     Add  thick  slices  of 
apple  with  salt  and  a  very  little  water.     Cover  close;  cook  until 
apples  are  tender.     Serve  with  broiled  trumese  or  nutmese,  or 
with  omelets  or  scrambled  eggs. 

64    Another 
Apples  in  quarters,  not  pared,  grated  onion,   a  little  tomato, 
sugar,  salt  and  celery  salt,   water  to  cook  apples  tender.     Rub 
through  colander. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


234  THE    LAUREL 

66  Currsat  Sauce 
t  qt.  currants  ^  teaspn.  salt 

I  large  onion,  sliced  2-3  tablespns.  sugar 

I  teaspn.  celery  salt  K  cup  water 

Cook  onion  in  water,  with  salt  and  sugar.  When  tender,  add 
currants  and  celery  salt;  cook  until  currants  are  broken  but  not 
till  the  seeds  are  hard.     Put  into  jars  boiling  hot.     Seal. 

ee    Curraat  Sauoe  No.  3 

I  qt.  currants  3  or  4  tablespns.  sugar 

I  small  head  celery —  ^  teaspn.  salt 

I  pt.  finely  sliced  i  cup  water 

Simmer  all  together  until  currants  are  broken.  Seal  in  jars. 
Or,  cook  celery  in  salted  water,  add  currants  and  sugar,  and  cook 
until  currants  are  broken  only. 

67    Baked  Gk>oseberry  Sauoe 
I  pt,  ripe  gooseberries  K  cup  water 

%  cup  sugar  a  little  salt 

Put  all  into  baking  dish,  cover  close,  bake  about  an  hour. 

68    Jellied  Chutney  Sauce 
I  pt.  currant  juice  1-1%  cup  ground  seeded  raisins 

1  pt.  red  raspberry  juice      particles  of  thin  yellow  shavings  of 
I  cup  orange  juice  half  an  orange 

1%  cups  granulated  sugar 

Make  jelly  and  add  a  little  at  a  time  to  raisins.  Stir  in  orange 
rind  and  put  into  tumblers.     Rind  may  be  omitted, 

69  Tomato  Chutney 
I  qt.  sliced  tomatoes  1  cup  water 

I  qt.  sliced  onions  i  cup  chopped  raisins 

^  cup  lemon  juice  salt 

Cook  all  together  i}i  hour. 

70    Kipe  Cucumber  Chutney 
I  qt.  pared  and  seeded  ripe  fi  teaspn.  ground 

cucumber  in  cubes  coriander  seed 

y'i  cup  lemon  juice  'A-%  teaspn.  celery  salt 

•yi  cup  sugar  J4  cup  seeded  raisins 


t,zcob,Cj00t^lc 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES  235 

Soak  cucumber  in  cold  water  over  night,  drain;  cook  with  the 
sugar,  raisins  and  part  of  the  lemon  juice  until  soft ;  add  the  other 
ingredients,  heat  well  and  seal  in  jars. 

71    Apple  Knd  Oreen  Tomato  Cbntney 

2  qts.  chopped  tart  apples  1-2  cups  water 

3  cups  (i  lb. )  seeded  raisins  2  qts.  chopped  green  tomatoes 
3-4  cups  brown  sugar  i  laree  onion  chopped 

3-4  cups  lemon  juice  J^-jf  cup  salt 

Grind  tomatoes  through  food  chopper,  drain,  pour  cold  water 
over  and  drain  after  i  hr.,  mix  all  ingredients,  let  stand  in  stone 
jar  over  night. 

In  the  morning  set  jar  in  kettle  of  cold  water  with  something 
underneath  to  keep  it  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  heat  to 
boiling,  cook  6  hrs.,  stirring  occasionally.  Seal  in  jars.  May 
cook  carefully  in  preserving  kettle  on  pad  or  ring. 

73    Brother  Coates'  mother's  Cbutaey 
H  pt.  lemon  juice  J4  cup  chopped  onion  and 

H  pt.  water  X  cup  shallots  or  H  cup  onion 

H  cup  brown  sugar  i  pt.  gooseberries  ( }4  pt.  canned) 

3-6  cloves  of  garlic  H-i  pt.  quartered  apples — K  as  many 

3  level  tablespns.  salt  dried  apples 

H  cup  raisins 

Chop  fruit  fine,  boil  in  J4  the  lemon  juice  and  water  with  the 
sugar.  Chop  onions,  shallots  and  garlic  fine,  mix  with  salt  and 
remaining  lemon  juice  and  water  and  add  to  boiling  fruit.  Cook 
well  together  and  put  into  jars. 

78    Hint  Sauce 
I  tablespn.  chopped  spearmint  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  tablespn.  brown  sugar  2  tablespns.  boiling  water 

Pour  boiling  water  over  mint,  add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and 
stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Do  not  heat  sauce.  Proportions 
of  mint,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  may  be  varied  and  water  may  be 
omitted. 

74    Carrant  Hint  Sauce 

Add  chopped  mint  to  melted  currant  jelly.     The  addition  of 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


236  THE   LAUREL 

particles   of   thin    yellow   rind   of   orange   makes   a   variation. 

7S    Ssuoe  Amdrioaine 

Suitable  for  Brussels  sprouts,  cauliflower,  breaded  carrots  or  bean 

croquettes. 

2  tablespns.  oil  or  oil  and  i  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

butter  a  teaspn.  salt 

yolks  of  2  eggs  K-^i  cup  of  hot  water 

Cook  in  double  boiler  like  custard,  adding  only  a  part  of  the 
water  at  first. 

A  little  less  water  may  be  used. 

For  variety  add  chopped  or  sliced  olives,  or  onion  juice  and 
parsley,  or  olives  and  onion. 

76    Saaoe  for  Breaded  Carrots 
Cream  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled  egg  with  a  tablespn.  of  butter; 
place  on  back  of  range  and  add    }4-t    tablespn.    of   lemon  juice 
with  water  to  make  2  tablespns.,  and  salt.     As  soon  as  the  mix- 
ture thickens,  pour  it  over  the  carrots. 

77    Sour  Saaoe  for  Carrot  Timbale 

1  tablespn.  butter  i  cup  boiling  water 
yolks  of  3  eggs  iH  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

2  tablespns.  cream  i^-H  teaspn.  salt 

Mix  creamed  butter  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  with  cream;  pour 
boiling  water  over;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Serve  at  once.  Excellent 
without  lemon  juice. 

78    Lemon  Batter  Ssaoe 

Cream  butter  and  work  into  it  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Add 
chopped  parsley,  1  tablespn.  to  each  half  cup  of  butter. 

A  few  chopped  nuts  may  also  be  added. 

79    Piokle  for  Beets,  String  Beans  and  Carrote 

2  parts  lemon  juice,  I  part  water,  i-f%  part  sugar,  a  trifle 
of  salt  or  none;  heat  to  boiling,  pour  over  vegetables,  drain  off. 
Repeat  twice. 

With  string  beans  a  little  celery  salt  or  finely-sliced  celery 
may  be  used. 


t,zcob,GoOi^lc 


"Upon  leaving  Eden  to  gain  his  livelihood  by  tilling  the 
earth  under  the  curse  of  sin,  man  received  permission  to  eat  also 
*the  herb  of  the  field.'  " 

While  vegetables  are  not,  as  some  suppose,  the  chief  article 
of  a  vegetarian  diet,  they  form  an  important  part  of  it,  supply- 
ing the  bulk  so  necessary  to  good  digestion,  as  well  as  the  min- 
eral elements.  One  writer  says,  "Nearly  all  vegetables  are  blood 
purifiers;  they  dissolve  other  food  and  greatly  assist  digestion. " 

Suggestiona 

Vegetables  should  be  used  soon  after  gathering,  as  they  begin 
to  ferment  and  lose  their  wholesomeness  as  well  as  flavors  very 
shortly. 

As  a  rule  put  vegetables  to  cooking  in  boiling  water,  and  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  again  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Cook  green  vegetables  in  salted  water  to  preserve  their  shape 
and  color.  A  lump  of  white  sugar  in  the  saucepan  is  said  to  pre- 
serve the  color  also,  or  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  or  charcoal 
tied  in  musHn. 

Onions  and  cabbage  should  be  cooked  in  salted  water. 

Cook  roots  and  tubers  in  unsalted,  and  if  possible  soft  water 
until  tender  or  nearly  so;  then  add  the  salt  and  let  them  boil  up 
well. 

If  roots  have  become  withered  soak  them  in  water  as  nearly 
ice  cold  as  possible,  for  three  or  four  hours  or  over  night,  before 
cooking. 

Soak  cauliflower  and  loose  heads  of  cabbage  in  cold  (not  salted) 
water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Drain  and  shake  gently  to  dislodge 
insects,  if  any. 

Pare  all  v^etables  except  turnips,  as  thin  as  possible. 

U37] 


■  b.Gooi^le 


238  THE   LAUREL 

Turnips  should  be  pared  inside  the  dark  line  encircling  them, 
or  they  will  have  a  strong  taste. 

Parboiling  leeks,  onions,  cabbage  and  old  carrots  renders  them 
more  digestible  and  more  agreeable  to  some. 

All  vegetables  will  require  longer  cooking  at   great  altitude. 

Milk  or  cream  of  raw  or  steamed  (not  roasted)  nut  butter  may 
be  substituted  for  dairy  milk  or  cream  with  nearly  all  vegetables. 

Many  vegetables  are  delightful  to  the  cultivated  taste  served 
plain  with  Brazil  or  other  nuts.  Thus  we  get  the  benefit  of  the 
fine  delicate  flavors  in  the  different  foods  instead  of  covering 
them  up  with  sauces  and  dressings. 

More  elatiorate  dishes  of  vegetables  are  given  among  entries. 

Articbokes— Globe 

Soak  artichokes  for  several  hours  or  over  night,  drain,  cut 
stalks  close,  trim  away  the  bottom  leaves,  clip  the  sharp  points 
from  the  leaves  or  cut  off  the  tops  straight  across.  Boil  in  salted 
water,  if  possible  with  charcoal  tied  in  piece  of  muslin,  until 
tender  enough  for  the  leaves  to  draw  out  easily,  ^-i  hour.  Re- 
move from  water  carefully  with  flat  wire  beater  or  small  skimmer. 
Drain  upside  down;  serve  whole  or  in  halves  or  quarters,  with 
cream  or  egg  cream  sauce,  drawn  butter  or  sauce  Am^ricaine 
poured  around;  or  on  a  napkin  on  hot  platter  or  chop  tray  and 
pass  sauce  with  them.     Serve  cold  with  French  dressing. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  tie  a  strip  of  muslin  around  each  artichoke 
before  boiling  to  hold  it  in  shape,  and  to  put  an  inverted  plate 
upon  them  while  cooking  to  keep  them  down, 

Artioliokea— JsruBalem 

Wash  and  boil  artichokes  with  the  skins  on  until  tender, 
30-40  m.  If  they  boil  too  long  they  may  become  tough.  Drain, 
peel,  and  serve  in  rich  cream  sauce.  They  may  be  peeled  before 
lx>iling. 

A  still  better  way  is  to  peel  artichokes  cut  them  into  thick  slices 
and  boil  15-20  m.,  then  drain  thoroughly  and  serve  in  cream, 
cream  of  tomato  or  onion  cream  sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  239 

Not  containing  any  starch,  Jerusalem  artichokes  are  suitable 
for  salads,  either  cooked  in  slices  and  dried  on  a  towel  after 
draining,  or  used  raw  in  thin  slices. 

AsparagnB 

Select  green  asparagus  for  the  table,  the  short  bleached  stalks 
are  tough  and  often  bitter.  Take  care  also  that  asparagus  is 
fresh.  The  tops  of  stale  asparagus  have  the  odor  of  spoiled 
flesh  meat  and  are  not  lit  to  use. 

If  not  just  from  the  garden,  asparagus  should  stand  in  cold 
water  J^-i  hour  before  cooking.  Wash  thoroughly,  dipping 
the  heads  up  and  down  in  a  large  quantity  of  water,  shaking 
well  to  dislodge  the  sand. 

As  the  difierent  parts  of  the  stalk  vary  in  tenderness,  the  best 
way  to  prepare  and  cook  asparagus  is  to  lay  a  handful  of  stalks 
on  a  vegetable  board  and  holding  it  with  the  left  hand,  with  a 
large  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  tips  about  t%  in.  from  the  end, 
and  if  the  next  part  is  very  tender,  cut  off  i  in.  more  to  go  with 
the  tips.  Then  cut  inch  lengths  of  the  next  that  is  of  about 
equal  tenderness,  and  lastly,  the  remaining  part  of  the  stalk  that 
is  not  tough.  The  tough  part  save  to  flavor  soups  or  sauces,  or, 
reject  entirely. 

To  cook,  throw  the  third  lot,  that  nearest  the  tough  part,  into 
boiling  salted  water,  boil  for  lo  m.,  add  the  second  lot,  boil 
10  m.,  throw  in  the  top  part  and  boil  10-15  >"■<  '^^  until  tips  are 
just  tender.  By  this  method  the  asparagus  is  all  nice  and  ten- 
der and  the  tips  are  whole. 

When  desiring  to  serve  in  longer  pieces,  lay  on  the  board  as 
before  and  cut  4  or  5  in.  from  the  top  (reserving  the  remaining 
part  for  soups  or  scallops).  Tie  into  neat  bundles  with  strips  of 
muslin.  Stand  these  bundles  in  rapidly  boiling,  salted  water 
with  the  heads  well  out.  Cook  from  20  to  30  m.,  when  the 
stalks  will  be  tender  and  not  decapitated. 

Asparagus  is  one  of  the  vegetables  that  will  not  admit  of  many 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


240  THE   LAUREL 

combinations;  such  only  as  develop  and  preserve  its  character- 
istic flavor  are  suitable. 

A8paragns"0reaia  or  Bntter 

Cook  in  short  pieces  as  directed;  drain  or  leave  the  water  on 
(there  should  be  but  little);  add  without  stirring  a  little  heavy 
cream;  bring  just  to  the  boiling  point,  remove  from  the  fire,  add 
more  salt  if  necessary,  shaking  gently  to  dissolve  it,  and  serve  in 
vegetable  dish  with  or  without  points  of  toast  around  the  e^e. 

Butter  may  be  substituted  for  cream. 

Asparagus— Egg  Cream  Sauoe 

Lay  cooked  asparagus  in  small  pieces  on  hot  moistened  toast 
of  any  desired  shape,  on  tray  or  platter,  and  pour  egg  cream 
sauce,  around.  It  may  also  be  served  the  same  with  a  nice  rich 
cream  sauce,  or  with  either  sauce  in  pastry  crusts  for  Asparagus 
en  Croustade. 

AsparaguS'-Drawn  Bntter 

On  large,  slightly  moistened  toast  points  on  a  platter,  pile 
long  pieces  of  asparagus  cooked  according  to  directions  (enough 
for  one  serving  on  each  piece  of  toast),  the  heads  all  one  way, 
and  put  a  generous  spoonful  of  drawn  butter  on  each.  Or  the 
sauce  may  be  put  on  when  serving. 

Asparagus—Banoe  Amdrioalne  and  Spinaoti  IieaTes 

Lay  asparagus  on  hot  platter  with  heads  toward  each  end  and 
stem  ends  just  meeting  in  center;  surround  with  border  of  salad 
leaves  of  spinach  and  place  same  across  the  asparagus  where  the 
stems  meet.  Serve  leaves  with  asparagus,  and  pass  sauce  Am^r- 
tcaine. 

String  Beans—Cream,  Nnt  or  Dairy 

String  beans  should  be  gathered  before  the  pods  begin  to  show 
the  shape  of  the  bean  much. 

To  prepare,  break  the  blossom  end  back  and  pull  off  the  string 
from  that  side,  then  break  the  stem  the  other  way  and  remove 
the  string  from  that  side.     Wash  beans  well  and  if  they  have 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  34I 

not  been  crisped  before  stringing,  let  them  lie  in  cold  (ice,  if 
possible)  water  a  half  hour  or  longer.  Drain,  take  in  handfuls 
on  to  the  vegetable  board  and  cut  into  ^  in.  lengths  (cut  di- 
agonally instead  of  straight  across  when  preferred).  Throw 
into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  until  tender,  1-3  hours.  Drain, 
saving  the  water  for  soups  or  to  make  drawn  butter  sometimes 
for  the  beans.  Cover  with  cream,  heat,  remove  from  fire,  add 
salt,  serve. 

Cream  from  raw  nut  butter  may  be  added  to  the  beans  about 
}4  hour  before  they  are  done  instead  of  using  dairy  cream. 

Cream  sauce  of  either  nut  or  dairy  milk  may  be  served  over 
beans  on  toast  if  desired. 

Wax  and  stringtess  beans  are  prepared  and  cooked  the  same 
except  that  >cw«^stringless  beans  have  no  strings.  Any  of  the 
varieties  may  be  cooked  in  whole  pods  when  desired  but  will  re- 
quire a  longer  time  for  cooking.  Flowering  or  scarlet  runner 
beans  are  used  for  string  beans  when  the  pods  are  very  young. 
String  Beons-Nnt  Bod  Tomato  Bisque  Sauoe 

Prepare  beans  as  above  and  cover  with  sauce  5,  made  of  either 
raw  or  roasted  nut  butter. 

Shelled  Ghreen  Beans 

Wash  beans  before  shelling  and  not  after,  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender,  the  time  varying  according  to  the  variety. 
Allow  plenty  of  time  as  beans  are  richer  in  flavor  if  simmered  or 
kept  hot  for  some  time  after  they  are  tender. 

They  may  be  served  with  different  sauces,  but  it  seems  too  bad 
to  spoil  their  delightful  flavors  with  anything  but  salt,  or  a  little 
cream  or  butter,  nut  or  dairy. 

Flowering  Beans-Qreen 

The  large  pole  beans  with  red  and  white  blossoms  have  the 
richest  flavor  of  all  shelled  beans.  After  shelling,  put  beans  into 
cold  water,  let  them  heat  slowly  to  the  boiUng  point  and  boil 
5-10  m.    Drain,  let  cold  water  run  over  them  in  the  colander. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


242  THE   LAUREL 

Return  to  the  fire  with  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until  ten- 
der, considerably  longer  than  other  shelled  beans.  Serve  plain, 
or  with  a  little  cream  poured  over  and  shaken  (not  stirred)  into 
them  a  few  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire.  If  one  has 
the  time  to  hull  these  and  Lima  beans,  it  may  be  done. 
To  Hull — Boil  beans  about  half  an  hour  (or  until  the  skins  are 
loosened)  in  unsalted  water.  Drain  and  slip  the  hulls  off  with 
the  thumb  and  finger. 

Cook  after  hulling  in  double  boiler  or  very  gently  on  back  of 
stove,  adding  seasoning  before  they  are  quite  tender  which  will 
be  in  a  much  shorter  time  than  with  the  hulls  on. 
Beet« 

Beets  should  be  fresh,  plump  and  firm.  If  slightly  withered, 
they  may  be  freshened  by  standing  in  cold  water  over  night. 
But  if  much  withered  do  not  waste  time  and  fuel  in  trying  to 
cook  them,  as  they  will  be  bitter  and  tough  with  any  amount  of 
cooking.  Use  care  in  handling  beets  before  cooking  so  as  not  to 
break  the  skins.  If  the  skins  are  broken  the  flavor  and  sweet- 
ness of  the  beet  will  be  lost  in  the  water.  Press  with  thumb 
and  finger  to  find  when  they  are  tender  rather  than  to  puncture 
with  a  knife  or  fork. 

Put  to  cooking  in  perfectly  boiling  water.  Boil  steadily  until 
tender,  when  remove  at  once  from  the  fire  as  over-cooking  tough- 
ens them,  throw  into  cold  water  a  moment  and  rub  off  the  skins. 
Serve  plain,  whole  if  small,  or  cut  into  quarters  if  lai^e;  or,  slice 
and  pour  over  a  hot  mixture  of  lemon  juice  and  sugar  (part  water 
and  a  trifle  of  salt  may  be  used),  or  hot  cream  with  salt,  or  salt 
and  olive  oil. 

Small  young  beets,   right  from  the  garden,  will  cook  in  from 

20  m.  to  I  hr.     Large,  old  ones  iii  winter  will  require  3-5  hours. 

FioUed  Beets 

Let  sliced  beets  stand  over  night  in  sauce  79, 
BrooooU 

This  is  a  vegetable  grown  in  -  cool  climates,  similar  to  cauli- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  243 

flower,  more  hardy  but  not  so  fine  in  quality.  Follow  directions 
for  cooking  and  serving  cauliflower,  except  that  broccoli  re- 
quires about  20  m.  only  for  cooking. 

Brussels  Sprouts 
Wash,  pick  off  outside  leaves,  lay  in  cold  water  yi-\  hour, 
drain.  Boil  in  salted  water  (in  cheese  cloth  if  convenient), 
15-30  m.  according  to  age;  do  not  cook  until  soft.  Drain  care- 
fully, pile  in  center  of  dish;  serve  with  hot  cream  poured  over, 
or  with  sauce  l6.  19,  34,  57,  olive  oil  or  French  dressing.  May 
add  I  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  to  each  %  cup  of  34. 

Cabbage-Plain  Boiled 

Trim  cabbage  and  if  not  very  crisp  let  stand  in  cold  or  ice 
water  i  hr.  or  over  night.  Drain,  cut  into  sixths,  eighths  or 
any  number  of  pieces  i-ij^  in.  across  the  broadest  part.  Lay 
in  sufficient  boiling  salted  water  to  cover;  let  come  to  the  boiling 
point  and  set  back  on  the  stove  where  it  will  simmer  gently  j4-}i 
of  an  hour,  until  tender  only,  and  still  perfectly  white.  Drain 
and  lay  on  to  hot  dish  with  pieces  overlapping.     Serve  at  once. 

Until  one  has  tried  it,  he  will  not  know  how  delightfully  sweet 
this  cabbie  is,  perfectly  plain,  eaten  slowly  with  Brazil  nuts,  fil- 
berts, almonds  or  English  walnuts.  It  may  be  served  with  olive 
oil  or  lemon  juice,  or  with  both  together  or  with  sauce  16,  34  or 
57,  or  with  the  sour  cream  or  sour  milk  salad  dressing  without 
cooling.     Use  two  eggs  in  dressing  when  serving  warm. 

If  cooked  until  it  begins  to  turn  dark,  cabbage  will  have  a  strong 
flavor  and  will  be  indigestible. 

To  Parboil — Put  at  first  into  a  large  quantity  of  unsalted  boiling 
water,  cook  15  m.,  drain  carefully,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  and  proceed  as  above. 

Hy  Mother's  Cabbage,  or  Cabbage  in  Cream 

Shave  crisp  cabbage  fine,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  20-30  m., 
until  just  tender  and  still  white.  Drain,  pour  in  cream,  heat  to 
almost  boihng,  serve. 


.b,Gooi^lc 


244  THE   LAUREL 

For  Sour  Cabbage — Add  a  little  lemon  juice  instead  of  or  with 
cream  and  more  salt  if  necessary. 

A  Cabbage  in  Tomato 
Prepare  cabbage  as  in  preceding  recipe,  cook  for  20  m.,  drain, 
add  stewed  tomatoes  (not  too  juicy,  they  may  be  strained  if  pre- 
ferred) with  salt  and  cook  until  cabbage  is  tender.  This  is  an 
unusually  fine  combination  and  very  suitable  to  accompany  a 
hearty  nut  meat  dish  such  as  broiled  trumese.  A  little  cream 
may  be  added  just  before  serving,  but  the  dish  is  complete 
without  it. 

Cabbage  and  Com 
Heat  together  2  parts  of  stewed  cabbage  and  1  part  of  corn 
with  cream,  nut  or  dairy. 

Sveet  Sour  Cabbage 

1  qt.  fine  shaved  i  level  teaspn.  salt 

cabbage  %  cup  sugar 

K  cup  water  'A  teaspn.  caraway  seeds 

2  tablespns.  oil  or  butter  %  cup  lemon  juice 

Cook  cabbage  in  water  15-20  m.,  then  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  simmer  slowly  until  the  cabbage  is  tender. 

Cabbage  with  Huts  and  Baialns 
Season   stewed   cabbage   with   cream — cocoanut,   almond  or 
dairy,  or  with  butter;  add  stewed  raisins  and  sprinkle  chopped  nuts 
over  just  before  serving.     May  garnish  with  halves  of  nuts. 

Carrots 

Carrots  being  among  the  most  healthful  vegetables  should  be 
used  freely,  and  with  a  little  care  they  may  be  made  exceed- 
ingly palatable. 

Unless  very  fresh,  let  carrots  stand  in  cold  water  for  some 
time  before  paring.  When  they  are  full  grown,  or  late  in  the 
season,  parboil  them  to  remove  the  strong  taste. 

It  will  require  from  20  m.  to  I  j4  hr.  to  cook  carrots  tender, 
according  to  the  age  and  the  sizes  into  which  they  are  cut.     A 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  245 

little  chopped  parsley  makes  a  pretty  combination  with  most  of 
the  dishes. 

CarTotB—Hinoed 

Scrape  or  pare  carrots,  cut  into  strips,  grind  in  food  cutter 
coarse  or  fine  as  preferred,  cook  in  water  until  tender,  add  salt, 
boil,  drain.  Add  a  little  cream,  cream  sauce,  butter  or  oil, 
reheat,  serve.  Add  a  trifle  of  sugar  to  cream  sauce  or  cream. 
Carrots  may  be  ground  or  rubbed  through  colander  after  boiling. 
Carrots-Stewed 

Cut  pared  carrots  into  quarters,  sixths  or  eighths,  lengthwise, 
then  across  in  quarter  inch  slices  in  the  largest  part  and  grad- 
ually thicker  toward  the  small  end;  or  if  carrots  are  small  and  of 
uniform  size  they  may  be  cut  in  whole  round  slices.  Cook  until 
tender,  drain,  and  reheat  with  cream,  or  sauce  i6  or  28,  to  each 
pint  of  which  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  has  been  added,  or  add  but- 
ter and  lemon  juice,  sauce  i,  2  or  34. 

Carrots  6  la  Washiagtoa 
I  qt.  sliced  or  diced  carrots  J^  tablespn.  browned  flour 

I  cup  to  r  pint  sliced  onions  H-l  teaspn.  salt 

H  cup  strained  tomato  i  tablespn.  raw  nut  butter  if 

desired 
Cook  all  together  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  carrots 
are  teader  and  well  dried  out. 

Fiokled  Carrots 
Pour  sauce  yg,  over  shced  cooked  carrots,  cover  and  let  stand 
for  several  hours. 

Carrots  and  Peas-Better  tlian  either  alone 
Mix  I  part  stewed  carrots  and  2  parts  cooked  green  peas.     Add 
cream  or  cream  sauce,  heat  and  serve. 

Or,  the  carrots  may  be  cooked  in  slices,  laid  overlapping 
around  edge  of  flat  dish,  with  peas  piled  in  center  and  sauce 
poured  around. 

CitTTOts  and  Btrlng  Beans—Bxoellent 
Equal  quantities  cooked  string  beans  and  carrots  with  cream 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


246  THE   LAUREL 

or  cream  sauce.      If  preferred,   the  beans   may  be  cooked  whole 
and  the  carrots  cut  into  strips. 

Carrots  and  Onioiu 
Pour  hot  cream  over  a  mixture  of  stewed  onions  and  carrots; 
heat  and  serve- 
Carrots  and  Beets 
Heat  mixture  for  pickled  carrots,    add    l    part    carrots   and2 
parts  beets;  serve  as  soon  as  hot.     Butter,   lemon  juice  and  salt 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  dressing. 

Carrots  and  Com~Delighttul 
To  equal  quantities  of  stewed  carrots  and  corn  add  cream  or 
thin  rich  cream  sauce;  heat,  serve.     If  the  corn  is  dried  corn, 
especially  dried  yellow  sweet  corn,  the  dish  is  most  delightful. 

Carrots  and  Suoootasb 
1  part  each  carrots  and  beans  with  2  parts  corn;  season  with 
cream  or  with  milk  and  butter. 

Cauliflover 

While  cauliflower  is  a  delightfully  delicate  vegetable  when 
properly  cooked,  it  is  easily  rendered  strong  and  disagreeable. 
It  should  be  cooked  until  tender  only,  15-25  m.  inconstantly 
boiling  liquid,  either  slightly  salted  water,  or  milk  and  water  (J^ 
milk),  salted.  Tie  loosely  in  cheese  cloth  or  muslin  to  prevent 
any  particles  of  scum  from  settling  on  it  and  to  keep  the  flower- 
ets whole,  then  drop  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  rapidly  boiling 
liquid  to  cover  it. 

It  should  not  lose  its  snowy  whiteness  in  cooking.  5  m.  of 
over-cooking  will  ruin  it.  The  milk  helps  to  keep  it  white  and 
gives  it  a  richer  flavor. 

To  serve  whole,  trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  leaving  the  inside 
green  leaves  on,  and  cut  the  stalk  close.  When  done,  lay  care- 
fully in  a  round  dish  and  pour  sauce  over  or  around  it.  If  the 
head  is  a  perfect  one,  do  not  cover  its  beauty  with  sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  247 

Sauce  i6,  i8  or  75  or  34  plain  or  with  lemon  juice,  are  all 
suitable  for  the  heads,  and  when  broken  into  Sowerets  it  is  de- 
lightful with  hot  rich  cream  poured  over  it.  Salt  and  oil,  with 
or  without  lemon  juice  may  also  be  used. 

Nice  perfect  flowerets  with  Sauce  Americaine  or  any  suitable 
sauce  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  timbales  and  other  true  meat 
dishes. 

For  salad,  let  cooked  cauliflower  stand  in  cold  water  until 
ready  to  serve. 

Celery~Eaw 

Trim  off  the  coarse  outside  stalks,  leaving  about  an  inch  of 
the  root  stalk;  then  cut  the  whole  stalk  into  quarters  or  sixths 
from  the  bottom  up,  and  throw  into  ice  water  until  well  crisped. 
If  there  should  be  dirt  between  the  stalks  it  will  be  necessary  to 
cut  them  off  and  brush  each  one  separately  with  a  vegetable 
brush.  Throw  the  tender  inside  stalks  into  water  to  be  served 
raw,  and  reserve  the  outside  ones  for  cooking. 

It  is  said  that  wilted  celery  may  be  restored  to  crispness  by 
dipping  into  hot  water  or  laying  a  few  minutes  in  warm  water, 
then  plunging  into  ice  water. 

Celery—Hint  Banoe 

Cut  tender  stalks  of  celery  across  as  fine  as  possible,  cover 
with  cold  fresh  mint  sauce  and  serve  in  dainty  cups  with  suitable 
true  meat  dishes. 

Celery— Stewed 

Cut  tender  stalks  of  celery  (not  those  that  are  fit  for  flavoring 
only)  into  half-inch  lengths,  by  handfuls  on  board  with  lai^e  knife. 
Put  into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  30-35  m.,  or  until  just 
tender.  Drain  (there  should  not  be  much  waterleft),  pour  cream 
or  sauce  over,  let  stand  over  hot  water  10-20  m.  Serve  by  itself 
or  on  toast.  Sauce  16,  plain,  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
in  it,  or  made  with  half  water  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked, 
or  34.  57  or  31  (when  using  31,  of  course  it  should  not  stand 
over  hot  water)  are  all  enjoyable  with  it. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


248  THE   LAUREL 

it  Celery  in  Tomato 

Stew  celerj'  as  above  in  just  enough  water  to  cook,  for  25  m. 
and  have  very  tittle  water,  if  any,  remaining;  then  add  enough 
strained  or  unstrained  stewed  tomato  to  nearly  cover,  and  sim- 
mer until  celery  is  tender  and  tomato  cooked  away  a  little.  The 
combination  of  the  flavors  of  celery  and  tomato  is  unusually 
fine.  The  addition  just  before  serving  of  a  little  heavy  cream 
makes  the  dish  still  more  delicious. 

Chard-Swiss 

Swiss  Chard  or  Spinach  Beet,  affords  two  distinct  dishes  from 
the  same  plant  at  one  time.  Strip  the  leafy  part  of  the  foliage 
from  the  stalk  and  cook  as  greens.  Cook  and  serve  the  stalks 
the  same  as  asparagus-  The  leaves  and  stalks  may  be  cooked 
together  as  greens. 

Young  shoots  of  poke  or  scoke  are  sometimes  served  as  "French 
Chard." 

Com— Green 

The  earliest  varieties  of  green  corn  are  never  very  sweet.  By 
far  the  richest  and  sweetest  are  the  yellow  kinds,  though  the 
dark  purple  or  black  almost  equals  them.  There  are  also  some 
medium  or  later  varieties  of  white  corn  that  are  excellent. 

Corn  is  at  its  best  the  day  it  is  gathered.     When  not  perfectly 

fresh,  cook  corn  in  almost   any  other  way  than  on  the  cob. 

Never  cook  it  in  salted  water  as  salt  hardens  it.     Corn  requires 

the  least  salt  for  seasoning  of  any  vegetable. 

Com-Oo  the  Cob 

Husk  nice  fresh  corn  and  put  it  over  the  fire  in  cold  water. 
When  just  at  the  boiling  point,  but  not  boiling,  remove  from  the 
(ire.  Let  it  stand  in  the  hot  water  where  it  will  not  boil  until 
ready  to  serve. 

Serve  in  a  dish  on  a  napkin  covered  with  another  napkin,  or 
in  a  close  covered  dish,  as  a  few  moments'  exposure  to  the  air 
toughens  it.  In  eating,  score  each  row  with  one  tine  of  the 
fork  so  that  the  hulls  will  be  left  on  the  cob,  unless  you  have  a 
corn  slitter. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VBGBTABtES  249 

Com— Boiled 

Put  husked  corn  into  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  5-15  m., 
usually  about  10  m.,  as  that  which  requires  12-15  m-  cooking  is 
really  too  old  to  cook  on  the  cob.  Young,  tender  corn  will  cook 
in  5  m.  Long  boiling  destroys  the  sweetness  of  corn  and  ren- 
ders it  tough. 

Com— Steamed 

Wrap  ears  of  com  in  cheese  cloth  and  steam  for  1 5-20  m. 


CORN  SLITTER — FOR  INDIVIDUAL  USE  AT  TABLE 

Hold  the  ear  of  corn  with  one  hand  and  draw  the  slitter  with 
slight  pressure.  Three  or  four  strokes  will  slit  every  grain  on 
the  cob.  It  does  not  remove  the  corn  from  the  cob  but  cuts  the 
hull  of  every  grain.  The  delicious  corn  is  obtained  with  the 
slightest  pressure  of  the  teeth,  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob. 

To  Prepare  Corn  for  Muffins,  Oysters,  etc. — Slit  the  grains  as 
described  above,  then,  holding  the  slitter  in  the  same  position 
but  elevating  the  hand  use  the  front  of  the  slitter  as  a  scoop  and 
push  the  corn  into  a  dish. 

Com—Baked,  Boiled  or  Steamed  in  Husks 
Select  nice  tender  ears  of  uniform  si/e.  Open  the  husks  and 
remove  the  silk,  then  tie  the  husks  close  in  place.  A  few  of 
the  heavy  outside  husks  should  be  removed.  Bake  the  ears  in 
a  hoi  oven,  separate  from  each  other,  15-20  m.,  remove  the 
husks  quickly  and  serve  covered. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


250  THE   LAUREL 

Or  prepare  in  the  same  way  and  after  tying,  cut  off  the  stalk 
and  point  of  the  ear  and  boil  rapidly  for  io-i3  m.  or  steam  for 
10-20  m.  Serve  in  the  husks  on  napkin.  The  husks  give  a 
sweet  flavor  to  the  corn  and  help  to  keep  it  warm  when  they 
are  not  removed  before  serving. 

Com"BoaBted~Be§t  of  All 
Place  husked  corn  in  wire  broiler  or  large  corn  popper  and  hold 
close  to  bed  of  hot  coals,  or  lay  on  gridiron  over  the  coals, 
turning  the  ears  as  necessary.  The  ears  may  be  laid  on  the 
coals  when  more  convenient  and  turned  often,  or  they  may  be 
roasted  in  a  I'ery  hot  oven. 

Com—  Stewed 

If  corn  is  quite  old,  grate  the  outside  of  each  ear  on  a  coarse 
grater  and  scrape  out  the  remaining  pulp  with  the  back  of  a 
knife.  Cook  carefully  in  oiled  saucepan  on  ring  or  asbestos  pad, 
in  a  small  quantity  of  water  8-12  m, ;  add  sugar,  to  give  the 
sweetness  of  young  corn,  salt  and  a  little  cream,  cream  sauce  or 
butter.     Heat,  serve. 

When  corn  is  not  too  old,  the  nicest  way  to  prepare  it  is  to 
draw  a  knife  down  each  row  of  kernels,  then  with  a  large  sharp 
knife  cut  a  thin  shaving  from  each  two  rows  and  scrape  the  pulp 
from  the  cob  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Cook  the  part  cut  off  in 
boiling  water  for  j  m.,  then  add  the  pulp  and  cook  carefully  5-8 
m.  longer.  Season  as  for  grated  corn,  omitting  the  sugar  if  com 
is  sweet. 

In  Hilfc — Cook  either  way  in  milk  in  double  boiler  20-30  m., 
and  season  as  desired. 

Com—Baked 

Prepare  corn  in  either  of  the  ways  given  for  stewed  corn;  add 
salt,  sugar  if  necessary,  and  enough  rich  milk  to  cover.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  15-20  m. 

Com— Dried 

Cover  dried  corn   %   in.  (or  more)  deep  with  warm  water,  let 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  2$  I 

stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  set  in  wann  place  and  shortly 
before  serving  time  increase  the  heat  gradually  until  it  is  about 
at  the  boiling  point,  but  not  boiling.  Season  with  a  little 
cream,  milk  or  butter,  or  with  cream  of  raw  or  steamed  nut  but- 
ter and  salt;  heat,  serve. 

Or,  cover  with  warm  water  1^-2  hours  before  meal  time  and 
keep  hot  (covered)  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Just  before  serv- 
ing, season  and  heat  just  to  boiling. 

Or,  best  of  all,  cover  quite  deep  with  cold  milk,  let  stand  in 
cold  place  over  night,  cook  in  double  boiler  I  hr.  or  longer, 
season,  serve. 

Cucumbers 

The  fruit  of  the  cucumber  vine  "serves  to  introduce  a  large 
quantity  of  water  into  the  system  and  is  a  refreshing  addition  to 
richer  foods,  especially  in  hot  weather,  when  its  crisp,  cool  suc- 
culence is  peculiarly  acceptable." — Church. 

One  unusually  successful  physician  used  to  recommend  cucum- 
bers because  they  were  '  'so  crisp  and  easily  digested, " 

Cucumbers  should  be  gathered  in  the  early  morning,  laid  in 
ice  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  kept  in  the  ice  box  or  on  the 
cellar  bottom  until  serving  time.  Or,  when  they  come  from  the 
market,  they  should  be  put  at  once  into  ice  water  and  kept  in  it 
until  thoroughly  refreshed.  Cucumbers  are  nearly  always  left 
on  the  vines  until  they  are  too  old.  Many  never  know  the 
delightful  flavor  of  cucumbers  in  which  the  seeds  are  just  formed 
but  not  developed. 

Cnomnbera  an  Mature! 

Pare  nice  crisp  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise  and  serve 
on  a  flat  dish,  to  be  eaten  with  or  without  salt  the  same  as  cel- 
ery.    This  is  by  far  the  most  enjoyable  way  to  ser\-e  cucumbers. 

SUodd  Cucumbers 
Pare  and  slice  cucumbers  in  not  too  thin  slices.      Pass  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  oil  with  them.     Some  prefer  them  with  salt  and 
oil  only;  others  with  lemon  juice  and  salt. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


252  THE   LAUREL 

If  not  thoroughly  crisp,  or  if  prepared  some  time  before  serv- 
ing, lay  in  ice  water  without  salt.     Salt  wilts  and  toughens  them, 
Steved  Caonmbers 

Pare  cucumbers,  cut  into  halves  lengthwise,  crosswise  also  if 
long.  If  seeds  are  lai^e.  remove  them,  but  younger  fruit  is 
better. 

Lay  the  pieces  cut  side  down  in  perfectly  boiling  unsalted 
water.  When  nearly  tender  15-20  m.,  add  a  little  salt  to  the 
water  and  finish  cooking.  They  should  be  just  tender,  not  soft 
when  done.  They  will  take  about  20-25  ^-  cooking  in  all, 
never  over  30  m.  Drain  thoroughly.  Serve  with  sauce^;,  34, 
28  or  29  or  with  16  made  of  cocoanut  or  dairy  milk.  On  toast, 
with  egg  cream  sauce  like  asparagus,  they  are  especially  nice. 
Sprinkle  chopped  parsley  in  the  sauce. 
Bgg  Plant 

E^  plant  belongs  to  the  family  of  the  deadly  night-shade, 
the  same  as  the  potato,  tomato,  peppers  and  tobacco,  and  con- 
tains an  irritating  principle  which  should  be  removed  by  thorough 
parboiling  when  used. 

Egg  Plant  in  Battsr 

Cut  e^-plant  into  %-%  in.  slices,  put  into  a  large  quantity 
of  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  and  boil  5  m;  drain,  repeat  the 
process,  add  salt  to  the  third  water  and  boil  until  just  tender; 
drain  thoroughly. 

Drop  spoonfuls  of  the  following  batter  on  well  oiled  griddle  or 
dripping  pan,  lay  on  slices  of  the  egg  plant  and  cover  with  the 
batter.     Brown  delicately  on  both  sides  on  the  griddle  or  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  at  once, 
Bal/ei — 

3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  but-     J^  teaspn.  salt 

3  tablespns.  flour  [ter       5  tablespns.  stale  graham  bread 

1  }i  cup  boiling  water  crumbs,  or  enough  to  make  a 

2  eggs  batter  of  the  right  consistency 

Heat  oil  (without  browning),  add  flour,  stir  smooth,  add  water, 

U.q,t,zc,b,CjOO»^IC 


VEGETABLES  253 

Stirring;  when  smooth,  remove  from  fire,   add  beaten  eggs,  salt 
and  crumbs. 

Oreena 

One  of  the  many  advantages  that  the  country  dweller  has 
over  those  who  live  in  the  city  is  the  great  variety  of  "greens," 
as  we  call  the  edible  weeds,  nearly  all  of  which  are  superior  in 
flavor  to  the  much  prized  spinach. 

There  is  narrow  or  sour  dock,  easily  distinguished  from  the 
broad-leaved  (which  is  not  edible)  by  its  long,  slender  leaf  curled 
on  the  ei^es;  the  dandelion,  which  should  be  gathered  before 
the  buds  appear  or  at  least  when  they  are  just  peeping  out,  as 
the  greens  are  bitter  when  the  buds  are  well  developed:  milk- 
zveed,  of  which  we  use  only  the  tips  unless  the  stalks  are  small 
and  tender:  pigweed,  red  root,  lamb's  quarters,  purslane  or 
"pusiey,"  with  poke  shoots,  the  garden  turnip  tops,  cabbage 
sprouts  young  beet  tops  and  endive. 

Some  are  better  in  combinations,  such  as  milkweed  and  nar- 
row dock,  narrow  dock  and  pigweed,  milkweed  and  purslane  and 
purslane  and  beet  tops. 

Do  not  try  to  wash  greens  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Put 
them  when  first  gathered  into  a  large  vessel,  a  wash  boiler,  a 
tub  or  a  deep  sink  in  which  the  water  will  be  deep  enough  to 
"swash"  them  up  and  down  with  the  hands.  When  they  are 
thoroughly  revived  lift  them  from  the  water  (do  not  drain  the 
water  off),  empty  the  vessel,  rinse  it  well  and  take  another 
quantity  of  water.  Continue  the  washing,  changing  the  water 
until  no  sand  is  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  vessel. 

Dandelion  and  some  other  greens  require  trimming  and  look- 
ing over  carefully  after  reviving  before  the  final  washing. 

When  ready  to  cook,  throw  greens  into  an  abundance  of  boil- 
ing salted  water  and  cook  until  tender. 

The  time  required  for  cooking  varies;  narrow  dock  requires  20 
m.,  purslane  a  little  longer,  pigweed  40  m.,  milkweed  2-3  hours, 
beet  greens  2j^-3  hours,  and  dandelions  3J4-4  hours.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  parboil  dandelions. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


254  "THE   LAUREL 

When  greens  are  perfectly  tender,  lift  them  carefully  with  a 
skimmer  from  the  water  into  a  colander  and  press  with  a  plate 
until  as  dry  as  possible. 

The  water  from  all  greens  (except  dandelion  if  at  all  bitter 
and  too  lai^e  a  quantity  of  narrow  dock)  is  invaluable  for  soup 
stock,  so  pour  it  off  carefully  from  the  sand  that  may  be  in  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle  even  after  the  most  careful  washing. 

When  the  leaves  are  long  and  stringy  it  is  well  to  cut  across 
the  mass  of  greens  a  few  times  before  serving,  but  the  flavor 
and  character  are  much  impaired  by  too  fine  chopping. 

Pass  oil,  lemon  juice  or  quarters  of  lemon,  French  or  Improved 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  or  Sauce  Am^ricaine  with  greens. 

Poke  Shoots — scoke — pigeon  berry  weed,  and  young,  tender 
milkweed  stalks  may  be  prepared  and  served  the  same  as  aspar- 
agus.    Do  not  use  poke  shoots  after  the  leaves  begin  to  unfold. 

Canned  greens  make  as  valuable  an  addition  to  the  winter 
supplies  as  canned  corn  or  peas. 

Kale — borecole,  should  not  be  used  until  after  heavy  frosts  in 
the  fall.  Cook  as  other  greens  in  boiling  salted  water  30-45  m. 
and  serve  the  same.  If  desired,  raw  nut  butter  may  be  added 
to  the  water  in  which  it  is  cooked;  then  lemon  juice  only  will  be 
required  with  it.  It  may  also  be  cooked  with  tomato,  the  same 
as  cabbage,  by  being  chopped  or  cut  fine  before  cooking.  Onion 
and  raw  nut  butter  may  be  added  to  the  tomato. 
Okra~St«wed  Whole 

Use  only  young,  tender  pods,  cut  off  the  stems,  wash  well  and 
cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  salted  water  (about  i  cup  to  each 
quart  of  okra)  for  30  m.  or  until  tender.  Season  with  cream, 
dairy  or  almond,  or  with  butter.  Or,  drain  ifany  water  remains, 
and  pour  over  it  a  hot  French  dressing.  Melted  butter  may  be 
used  in  the  dressing  instead  of  oil. 

Never  cook  okra  in  an  iron  vessel. 

OkTS-SUoed,  St«ired 

Slice  pods  of  okra  across  and  cook  with  i  cup  of  salted  water 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  255 

to  each  pint  of  okra  until  tender,  25-30 m.  Drain  or  not,  accord- 
ing to  what  is  to  be  added.  Stewed  tomatoes,  strained  or  un- 
strained, almond  or  dairy  cream,  sauce  16,  18,  19,  or  34,  or  hot 
French  dressing  may  be  poured  over  it.  When  strained  toma- 
toes are  used,  the  okra  and  tomato  should  simmer  together  about 
10  m.  Add  a  little  heavy  cream,  butter  or  oil  and  salt  just  before 
serving, 

Onions—Boiled 

Select  onions  of  about  equal  size.  Peel  them,  then  at  the 
root  end  cut  into  the  onion  about  K  °^  the  way  at  right  angles. 
This  causes  the  onion  to  cook  tender  at  the  heart.  Let  stand 
in  cold  water  20  m.  to  i  hour.  Put  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  cook  until  tender,  J^-i  J4  hour.  The  water  may  be  changed 
after  1 5  m.  boiling.  Drain,  add  cream,  cream  sauce  or  butter, 
heat  a  moment  (do  not  boil  with  cream),  serve.  Some  prefer 
onions  plain  with  a  little  of  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  boiled. 

Drain  young  onions  slightly  when  about  half  done,  pour  on 
milk  and  simmer  until  tender. 

OnioDS— Stewed 

Cut  peeled  onions  into  halves,  then  into  quarters,  and  slice 
across  in  thin  slices.  Put  into  just  enough  boiling  salted  water 
to  cook  tender;  dry  out  well  and  serve  plain  or  add  a  little  oil  or 
melted  butter,  hot  cream  or  cream  sauce.  Serve  sometimes 
over  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.  Raw  or  steamed  nut  but- 
ter may  be  cooked  with  the  onions. 

Oniona—Baked 

Select  large,  perfect  onions;  peel,  and  boil  until  about  half 
done:  drain,  put  into  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  crumbs, 
pour  a  little  oil  or  melted  butter  over  and  bake,  covered  part  of 
the  time,  until  tender. 

Onions  may  be  dried  after  boiling,  wrapped  in  oiled  paper, 
baked  and  served  with  melted  butter  or  cream  sauce. 

OnionB--&aw 

Slice  onions  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  (no  salt)  for  an 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


a$6  THE    LAUREL 

hour  or  more,  changing  the  water  occasionally.  Drain,  dry  and 
serve  with  salt,  salt  and  oil  or  lemon  juice  or  with  French  dress- 
ing. If  in  a  hurry  to  use  them,  dip  sliced  onions  quickly  into 
boiling  water,  then  into  cold  water  and  serve  as  before.  Sprigs 
of  parsley  are  sometimes  passed  after  dishes  containing  onions 
to  destroy  the  odor  in  the  breath. 

Oyster  Plant 

Oyster  plant — vegetable  oyster — salsify,  is  one  of  the  most  de- 
lightful vegetables.  It  should  not  be  used  until  after  heavy  frosts 
and  is  at  its  best  in  the  spring  after  being  in  the  ground  all  win- 
ter. Whatever  is  dug  more  than  is  to  be  used  each  time,  should 
be  kept  in  sand  in  a  cool  place. 

To  prepare  for  cooking,  soak  in  cold  water  3  or  4  hours,  or 
over  night.  Scrape  on  a  vegetable  board  with  a  knife  and  drop 
each  root  into  a  lai^e  quantity  of  cold  water  as  soon  as  scraped 
to  keep  it  from  turning  dark. 

When  very  fresh,  oyster  plant  will  cook  in  10  m.,  but  late  in 
the  season  it  often  requires  a  half  hour.  Cook  until  tender 
only,  not  soft. 

The  flavor  of  the  oyster  plant  is  in  the  water,  so  there  should 
always  be  some  liquid  left  to  form  part  of  the  sauce. 

A  little  cream  is  required  to  develop  the  flavor  of  oyster  plant. 

Water  and  cream  are  better  than  milk. 

Milk  and  a  little  butter  may  be  used  when  cream  is  not  ob- 
tainable. Raw  or  steamed  nut  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of 
either,  and  olive  oil  instead  of  butter  gives  an  appropriate  flavor. 

If  there  should  be  dark  spots  through  the  oyster  plant,  be 
sure  that  every  particle  is  removed,  as  one  little  piece  with  a 
dark  spot  in  it  will  flavor  the  whole  dish. 

The  carbohydrates  of  oyster  plant  do  not  include  starch. 

8t«wed  or  Creamed  Oyster  Plant 

Cut  scraped  roots  into  sHces  %-H  in.  thick  according  to  size, 
and  drop  into  the  water  in  which  they  are  to  be  cooked,  an  equal 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  257 

quantity,  usually.    Boil  without  salt  for  10-25  m.    When  nearly 
tender,  add  salt. 

To  the  oyster  plant  liquor,  add  a  little  heavy  cream,  and  when 
boiling,  add  flour  blended  with  water  to  make  of  a  creamy  con- 
sistency; salt  if  necessary.  Chopped  parsley  may  sometimes  be 
added,  and  a  little  celery  salt  occ^onally,  but  oyster  plant  will 
not  admit  of  the  addition  of  many  flavors.  If  to  be  served  on 
toast  or  rice,  or  in  a  rice  border,  a  little  onion  juice  may  be  added. 

Oyster  Plant  witb  Drawn  Batter  Bauoe 
Cook  oyster  plant  in  2-in.  lengths  in  a  small  quantity  of  water. 
Add  sauce  40,  heat,  serve  on  toast  or  rice. 

Oyster  Plant  with  Celery  or  Com 
Use  ii  or  }4  cooked  celery  or  corn  in  recipe  for  stewed  oys- 
ter plant. 

Any  of  these  dishes  may  be  served  as  a  second  course  at  din- 
ner with  beaten  biscuit  with  or  without  ripe  olives. 

Parsley 

When  parsley  is  fresh,  wash,  shake  and  keep  in  a  thick  paper 
sack  near  the  ice.  When  withered,  put  at  once  into  ice  water 
until  refreshed. 

To  dry,  pick  off  the  leaves  and  stand  in  a  warm  place.  It  is 
better  than  not  any  when  fresh  is  not  obtainable. 

Parsnips 

The  parsnip  is  another  vegetable  not  good  until  after  heavy 
frosts,  and  is  much  sweeter  and  richer  in  flavor  when  left  in  the 
ground  until  spring. 

Boiled  Parsnips 

Scrape  or  pare  parsnips,  cut  into  halves  or  thirds  in  flat  slices 
lengthwise;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  just  tender,  20  m. 
to  1  hour  according  to  age  and  size.  Serve  plain  or  with  hot 
cream  or  butter  poured  over. 

Parsnips  may  be  steamed  instead  of  boiled. 


ovGoo<^lc 


258  THE   LAUREL 

Stewed  FBTBiiips 

Cut  parsnips  into  slices  crosswise,  j4-H  ii^-  thick,  or  if  large, 
cut  into  quarters  first,  then  sUce.  Cook  in  small  quantity  of 
water  until  just  tender.  Serve  with  cream,  cream  sauce,  or  egg 
cream  or  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Browned  Farmips 

Lay  slices  of  boiled  or  steamed  parsnips  in  baking  pan,  pour 
over  a  little  cream,  oil  or  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Brown  delicately  in  oven.  Or,  dip  in  oil  or  butter  and  flour  and 
brown  in  quick  oven. 

Maahed  FBranips 

Rub  parsnips  through  the  colander;  season  with  salt  only,  or 
with  salt  and  cream.     Heat  and  serve. 

Frioaasee  of  Parsnips 

Boil  sliced  parsnips  in  milk  without  salt.  When  tender  add 
salt  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour  stirred  smooth  with  milk. 
Serve  on  toast. 

Peas 

Green  peas  should  be  neither  too  old  nor  too  young.  When 
they  are  small  and  soft  they  have  no  character,  but  if  too  old  they 
are  hard  and  flavorless.  To  be  at  their  best  they  should  be 
cooked  the  day  they  are  gathered. 

Green  Peas—Stewed 

For  fresh  tender  green  peas,  wash  the  [K)ds,  shell  and  put  at 
once  into  boiling  salted  water.  Washing  after  shelling  takes 
away  much  of  the  sweetness.  Cook  until  tender,  1 5-25  m.  There 
should  be  very  little  water  left  when  they  are  done.  When 
nice  and  sweet  they  require  no  seasoning  but  salt.  Serve  plain, 
with  just  enough  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked  to 
moisten  them.  A  little  sweet  cream,  butter  or  cream  sauce  may 
be  added. 

Peas  that  have  become  withered  should  be  shelled  and  allowed 
to  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  l>efore  cooking. 

When  peas  are  a  little  old  they  require  longer  cooking,  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  259 

should  have  a  little  sugar  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked. 
A  small  sprig  of  mint  improves  the  flavor  of  old  peas,  but  the 
positive  mint  flavor  should  not  be  distinguishable. 

Canned  peas  of  an  inferior  quality  drained  and  boiled  in  fresh 
water  with  sugar  and  mint  are  sometimes  hardly  distinguishable 
from  fresh  peas.  A  sprig  of  parsley  may  be  stewed  with  peas 
instead  of  mint. 

Feaa—FariBian  Style 

Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  with  parsley  and  onion;  add 
sugar,  and  thicken  the  liquid  a  trifle. 

Feaa— Qerman  Way 

Put  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  the  saucepan,  add  peas,  salt  apd  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  water,  cover  close  and  cook  until  tender, 
about  half  an  hour,  perhaps. 

Feas  With  Com 
Combine  green  peas  and  corn  as  beans  and  corn  in  succotash. 

Feaa  With  New  Potatoes 
Cook  peas  and  small  new  potatoes  together.    Cover  with  cream 
or  thin  cream  sauce. 

Melting  Sugar  Peaa 
This  is  the  name  of  one  variety  of  the  edible  podded  peas. 
They  have  a  delightful  flavor  peculiar  to  themselves.  Wash  and 
drain  the  pods  and  cut  like  string  beans.  Cook  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  about  30  m.  Add  cream, 
cream  sauce  or  a  little  butter.     Heat  and  serve. 

Fot&toes 
There  is  great  diversity  of  opinion  in  regard  to  the  value  of 
the  potato  as  a  food.  Some,  because  of  its  belonging  to  the 
family  of  the  deadly  night  shade,  the  same  family  as  tobacco, 
think  it  should  be  used  sparingly  if  at  all,  while  others  consider 
it  (when  baked,  at  least)  one  of  the  most  wholesome  foods.  Its 
use  is  often  prohibited  by  physicians  in  some  forms  of  indiges- 
tion and  for  those  rheumatically  inclined. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


aSp  THE   LAUREL 

The  solid  part  of  the  potato  is  almost  entirety  starch,  so  it 
serves  as  bulk  in  combination  with  nitrogenous  foods. 

"Potatoes  which  have  grown  on  the  surface  of  the  ground  or 
which  have  been  exposed  to  the  light  frequently  turn  green,  and 
such  tubers  contain  abnormal  amounts  of  solanin,  as  do  old  and 
shriveled  potatoes  which  have  sprouted.  It  is  best  not  to  use 
such  old  potatoes,  but  if  they  are  eaten  the  flesh  around  the 
sprouts  should  be  cut  away,  as  this  portion  is  particularly  liable 
to  contain  solanin." — C.  F.  Langivorthy,  Ph.  D.  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin, 295.    U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture. 

Solinine  is  a  vegetable  alkaloid  which  may  produce  serious  re- 
sults as  it  is  of  about  the  same  nature  as  belladonna  and  other 
poisons  of  that  class. 

Soak  new  potatoes  for  a  short  time  only  in  cold  water  before 
cooking,  but  old  ones  for  at  least  2-3  hours. 

In  paring  potatoes,  put  them  into  cold  water  so  that  the  dirt 
will  not  adhere  to  the  flesh.  Pare  not  too  thick  and  throw  at 
once  into  clear  cold  water. 

When  salt  is  sprinkled  over  potatoes  after  cooking  it  absorbs 
the  moisture  and  renders  them  more  mealy. 

Baked  Potatoes 

No  other  way  of  preparing  the  potato  renders  it  so  mealy  and 
digestible  as  proper  baking.  Wash  and  scrub  the  potatoes 
thoroughly  without  breaking  the  skins,  lay  them  on  the  grate  of 
a  moderately  hot  oven  without  touching  each  other,  so  that  there 
"^ill  be  a  free  circulation  of  heat  around  each  potato.  When  the 
oven  is  too  hot,  potatoes  will  be  soggy  and  indigestible.  Bake 
until  just  done;  do  not  try  with  a  fork  but  by  pressing  with  the 
thumb  and  finger.  When  done,  serve  at  once  in  an  uncovered 
dish,  or  lay  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish  and  fold  over  the  potatoes. 

The  most  perfect  way  to  serve  a  baked  potato  is  to  work  it  be- 
tween the  folds  of  a  towel  in  the  hand  without  breaking  the  skin 
until  soft  and  mealy  all  through.  Lay  each  potato  on  the  grate 
again  until  all  are  done.   Potatoes  may  be  broken  apart  in  the  cen- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  26 I 

ter  and  a  sprig  ot  parsley  laid  in  when  serving  on  an  invalid's  tray 
or  to  individuals,  but  all  must  be  done  quickly,  as  a  few  mo- 
ments' delay  after  the  potato  is  done  will  spoil  its  lightness. 

If  for  any  reason  baked  potatoes  must  be  kept  waiting,  wrap 
them  in  a  thick  towel  and  lay  in  a  warm  place. 
When  in  a  hurry  for  baked  potatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over  them 
just  before  laying  them  in  the  oven. 

Some  think  potatoes  are  whiter  and  more  mealy  if  boiled  until 
nearly  done  and  then  finished  in  the  ovep. 

Perhaps  the  most  perfect  way  of  baking  potatoes  is  to  lay  them 
on  a  wire  stand  in  a  close  covered  kettle  without  any  water, 
over  a  moderate  fire. 

Boiled  Sorly  FotBtoes 

Put  pared  potatoes  into  rapidly  boiling,  salted  water.  Do 
not  allow  water  to  stop  boiling.  When  nearly  done  add  J^-i 
cup  cold  water.  Drain  as  soon  as  done.  Shake  and  dry  un- 
covered, over  fire.  Serve  in  napkin.  When  obliged  to  stand 
for  a  few  minutes,  throw  a  clean  towel  over  the  uncovered  kettle 
to  absorb  the  steam. 

Boiled  Late  or  Winter  Potatoes 

Put  potatoes  into  cold,  slightly  salted  water.  Bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  as  quickly  as  possible.  When  half  done,  drain,  add  cold 
water  and  boil  again.  Drain  as  soon  as  done,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
shake  over  fire  until  dry.     Serve  in  napkin  or  uncovered  dish. 

The  Irfah  Way 
Put  potatoes  in, slightly  salted  cold  water;  when  the  water  boils 
add  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water;  repeat  this  process  2  or  3 
times;  when  done,  drain,   shake  until  dry  and  send  a  few  at  a 
time  to  the  table. 

Potatoes  In  Jaokets 
Wash  thoroughly,  peel  off  a  narrow  strip  around  the  potatoes 
the  long  way.     When  tender,   drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  shake, 
peel  and  serve,   or  serve  without  peeling.      Taking  off  the  str.ip 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


262  THE   LAUREL 

around  the  potatoes  causes  them  to  burst  and  become  mealy,  and 
makes  them  easier  to  peel  while  still  giving  the  flavor  so  much 
liked  by  many. 

Steamed  Fotatoei 

Cook,  without  paring  or  with  a  narrow  strip  only  taken  off, 
in  steamer  over  hot  water  with  a  few  sprigs  of  fresh  mint.  Dry 
in  the  oven. 

Allow  at  least  lo  m.  more  for  steaming  potatoes,   either  with 
or  without  their  "coats,"  than  for  boiling. 
Small  New  Potatoes 

Wash  small  new  potatoes,  boil  or  steam,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
shake  over  fire  until  skins  begin  to  crack,  serve  in  napkin. 

Or,  rub  the  skins  off  with  a  coarse  towel  (coarse  salt  in  the 
towel  helps)  or  scrape  the  jwtatoes.  After  cooking  and  drain- 
ing, crack  each  by  pressing  hghtly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
Lay  in  dish,  pour  hot  cream  or  milk  and  butter  over  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley. 

Creamed  Stewed  Potatoes 

Cut  potatoes  into  small  pieces  or  slice  not  too  thin;  cook  until 
almost  tender;  drain,  put  into  cream  sauce  in  double  boiler  and 
cook  %  hour  longer.  Whole  small  potatoes  or  targe  ones  in 
quarters  cooked  until  tender  may  be  served  in  cream  sauce  the 
same. 

Creamed  Warmed-Over  Potatoes 

Cold  baked  potatoes  are  much  the  best  for  warming  over. 
Slice  baked  or  boiled  potatoes  or  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put 
into  cream  sauce,  with  or  without  celery  salt  or  stalk  or  a  little 
chopped  onion,  and  simmer  slowly  15  m.  Sprinkle  with  parsley  in 
serving. 

Or,  pour  milk  over  potatoes,  cover  and  heat  slowly  1 5-20  m. 
If  raw  nut  milk  is  used  heat  a  half  hour.  A  little  onion  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

Water  Creamed  Potatoes 

Thicken  boiling  water  slightly  with  flour,  add  salt,  onion  or 
celery  if  desired,  and  sliced  potatoes.     Simmer  15-20  m. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


VEGETABLES  363 

Or,  put  a  little  oil  or  butter  into  the  saucepan,  add  flour,  then 
boiling  water  and  potatoes. 

Hashed  Creamed  Potatoes 
Chop  cold  potatoes,  mix  with  cream  sauce,  put  into  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven. 

Hashed  Browned  Potatoes 

Mix  cream,  oil  or  melted  butter  and  salt  with  chopped  potatoes. 
Spread  evenly  in  well  oiled  frying  pan,  pour  a  ver^-  little  water 
over  if  oil  or  butter  are  used,  cover  and  heat  slowly  without 
stirring.  When  delicately  browned  on  the  bottom,  fold  or  roll 
like  an  omelet  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  celery  tops  or  a 
sprig  of  parsley. 

Or,  pour  brown  sauce  over  potatoes  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
with  oil  and  heat  in  oven.  A  little  milk  or  consomm6  may  be 
added. 

Improved  Parisian  Potatoes 

Cut  balls  out  of  large  pared  potatoes  with  vegetable  scoop. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  just  or  hardly  tender.  Drain, 
roll  and  shake  in  thin  drawn  butter  or  cream  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  parsley,  serve  as  border  of  timbales  or  as  garnish  for  other 
meat  dishes. 

Hashed  Potatoes 

Very  large,  or  irregularly  shaped  potatoes  may  be  used  for 
mashing.  Have  kettle,  fine  colander  and  masher  hot,  with  hot 
milk  or  cream  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Rub  nicely  boiled 
potatoes,  a  few  at  a  time,  through  the  colander  into  the  kettle 
as  soon  as  done.  Beat  very  thoroughly  until  smooth  and  creamy. 
Add  more  hot  milk  if  necessary  but  do  not  make  too  soft  or  the 
flavor  of  the  potato  will  be  lost.  Mashed  potatoes  should  be 
served  at  once,  but  if  obliged  to  stand,  make  them  a  littlesofter, 
keep  hot  in  double  boiler  and  beat  occasionally  to  restore  the 
smoothness. 

Potato  Cakes 

Sha[>e  cold  mashed  potato  into  cakes,  brown  on  both  sides  on 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


264  THE   LAUREL 

oiled  griddle,  or  brush  with  cream,  oil  or  melted  butter  and 
brown  in  oven.  Serve  as  soon  as  done.  When  egg  is  added  to 
potato  cakes,  they  fall  soon  after  removing  from  the  fire  and 
become  solid  and  soggy;  also  the  characteristic  flavor  of  the 
potato  is  to  some  extent  destroyed. 

Brovned  Hashed  Potato  Slioes 

Cut  mashed  potato  (which  has  been  molded  in  a  brick  shaped 
or  small  round  tin  dipped  in  cold  water)  into  rather  thick  slices. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  brown  in  quick  oven. 
Serve  with  or  without  sauce.  Slices  may  be  served  with  a 
poached  egg  on  each. 

Potato  Pur6e 

Add  rich  milk  to  mashed  potatoes  to  make  like  thick  porridge, 
spread  on  hot  platter  as  a  foundation  for  cutlets,  croquettes, 
slices  of  broiled  nut  meat  or  nicely  poached  eggs.  Garnish  with 
parsley  or  other  green. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  large  sweet  potatoes  without  breaking  the  skins,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  will  yield  to  pressure  between  the 
thumb  and  finger. 

Or,  boil  until  nearly  tender  and  finish  in  the  oven.  Serve  at 
once.  Sweet  potatoes  will  bake  in  a  shorter  time  than  Irish 
potatoes. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

The  most  delightful  boiled  sweet  potatoes  I  ever  ate  were 
prepared  in  the  following  manner;  Cook  pared  potatoes  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water  until  nearly  tender,  drain  if  necessary 
(but  it  ought  not  to  be  necessary),  cover  with  a  towel  and  let 
stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  an  hour  or  longer,  shaking 
occasionally.  Potatoes  may  be  boiled  until  tender  and  laid  on 
a  tin  in  the  oven  a  few  moments  to  dry. 

Hashed  Sveet  Potatoes 
Prepare  and  season  the  same  as  mashed  Irish  potatoes.     Serve 
with  tomato  cream  sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  265 

Or,  put  into  oiled  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  heat 
in  oven. 

HaBhed  Pumpkin 

Select  a  nice,  rich,  fine  grained  pumpkin,  saw  into  halves, 
remove  the  seeds  and  fibre  with  a  spoon  and  cut  into  small  pieces 
without  paring.  Steam,  or  stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water. 
Drain  if  watery  in  cheese  cloth.  When  dry,  mash  and  season 
with  cream  or  butter  and  salt.  Heat  in  double  boiler  or  oven, 
stirring.  Serve  in  mound  on  hot  dish,  or  put  into  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven. 

Baked  Pumpkin 

Place  halves  of  pumpkin  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  re- 
moved, cut  side  down  upon  a  tin.     Bake  until  tender  and  dry. 
Scrape  from  the  shell,  mash,  season  and  serve. 
Baked  Pumpkin— Individiial 

Cut  pumpkin  into  not  too  small  pieces  and  lay  cut  side  down 
on  waxed  paper  in  baking  tin.     Serve  as  baked  potatoes. 
Badishes 

Wash  radishes  well  with  brush,  trim  off  all  but  the  small  green 
leaves,  stand  in  ice  water  }i-l  hour.  Serve  on  glass  dish  with 
cracked  ice,  or  in  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce  or  of  spinach  leaves, 
or  with  a  parsley  border. 

Pare  winter  radishes  and  cut  into  quarters.     Serve  sprinkled 
with  parsley,  or  as  other  radishes. 
Spluaoh 

Wash  spinach  the  same  as  other  greens,  p.  253.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  10-30  m.  Lift  from  the  water 
with  skimmer  into  a  colander.  (Save  water  for  soups  and  sauces. ) 
Press  dry  with  a  plate.  Lay  in  hot  pan  and  cut  across  a  few 
times  but  do  not  chop;  return  to  colander,  pressing  in  firmly,  to 
mold.  Turn  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  over  the  col- 
ander and  unmold.  Garnish  with  triangles  of  toast  and  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Pass  oil,  quarters  of  lemon  or  lemon  juice.  Sauce 
AmMcaine  or  French  or  Mayonnaise  dressing  with  it.      Many 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


266  THE   LAUREL 

prefer  it  with  salt  and  oil  alone.     It  may  also  be  served  with 
cream  sauce,  or  drawn  butter  with  lemon  juice. 

Overcooking  develops  a  strong  flavor  and  causes  spinach  to 
lose  its  bright  green  color. 

When  spinach  is  young  and  sweet,  it  may  be  cooked  without 
the  addition  of  vrater  by  covering  close  and  heating  slowly  at 
first ;  but  when  there  Is  danger  of  its  being  bitter  it  should  be 
cooked  in  plenty  of  water. 

Spinftoh  with  Cream-Delioioafl 

Pour  hot  cream  over  cooked  spinach  in  vegetable  dish. 

Spinach  is  sometimes  rubbed  through  a  colander  after  cooking 
arid  served  with  whipped  cream,  for  luncheon  or  supper. 
Sninmer  Squash 

Cut  squash  into  inch  thick  pieces,  steam,  or  stew  in  a  small 
quantityof  water;  drain incheesecloth.  Mash,  season,  heat  and 
serve. 

If  you  ever  use  butter  for  seasoning  in  cooking,  use  it  with 
summer  squash;  though  a  Httle  heavy  cream,  almond  or  dairy, 
is  very  nice.     Never  use  roasted  peanut  butter  with  squash. 

Only  those  squashes  which  are  young  enough  to  cook  with 
the  skins  and  seeds  are  suitable  for  stewing,  as  the  skins  and 
seeds  contain  the  flavor. 

Baked  Blpe  Summer  SquaBh 

Bake  whole;  open,  remove  seeds,  scrape  pulp  from  skin,  sea- 
son and  serve  as  above.  This  pulp  makes  very  delicate  squash 
cream  pies. 

Summer  Squash  vlfh  Cora 

Add  %  cup  stewed  green  corn  to  each  pint  of  cooked  summer 
squash.    Season  vrith  salt  and  cream. 

Winter  Squash 

Winter  squashes  vary  so  much  in  quality  that  no  one  way  of 
cooking  will  do  for  all.  There  are  some  varieties  from  which 
the  skin  may  be  peeled  like  a  tomato,  after  steaming;  others  are 
so  hard  that  it  is  impossible  to  pare  them;  from  these  scrape  out 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  267 

the  pulp  with  a  spoon  after  steaming;  others  still,  are  better  to 
be  pared  before  steaming.  When  soft  and  watery  after  cooking, 
dry  in  the  oven  before  mashing,  and  again  afterwards  if  neces- 
sarj'.  Some  watery  squashes  have  a  rich  flavor  when  well  dried 
out. 

Hashed  Winter  Sqnash 

Saw  squash  in  halves,  remove  the  seeds  and  fibre  with  a  spoon, 
cut  into  quarters  or  eighths,  pare  or  not  according  to  the  variety, 
lay  inside  down  in  the  steamer  and  cook  over  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Remove  from  the  shell  if  not  pared,  mash  through  a 
fine  colander,  season  if  soft  with  butter  or  cream  and  salt,  or 
with  salt  only;  if  dry  and  mealy  like  the  "Delicious,"  use  plenty 
of  milk  and  cream  with  salt.  Beat  well  and  serve. 
Hashed  Baked  Sqaaeh 

Bake  halves  of  squash  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  re- 
moved, cut  side  down  until  tender,  r-2  hours  or  longer.  Scrape 
pulp  clean  from  the  shell,  mash,  add  salt,  beat  well  and  serve. 
Baked  squash  is  so  sweet  that  it  requires  no  seasoning  but  salt, 
though  a  little  milk  or  cream  may  be  added  if  it  is  very  dry. 

Baked  Sqoaah—Virgliiia  Way 

Bake  pieces  of  desired  size,  the  shell  side  up,  on  waxed  paper 
in  baking  pan.     Serve  on  platter,  allowing  each  guest  to  sea- 
son to  taste,  and  eat  from  the  natural  dish. 
Tomatoes 

As  the  tomato,  though  a  fruit,  is  prepared  and  served  in  so  many 
ways  as  a  vegetable,  we  will  follow  custom  and  consider  it  un- 
der that  head;  but  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  it  should  not  be 
served  or  eaten  in  combinations  unsuitable  for  other  acid  fruits. 

The  most  desirable  way  to  serve  the  tomato  is  uncooked  when 
well  ripened.  When  perfectly  ripe  the  skin  will  peel  off  without 
any  preparation,  and  it  may  sometimes  be  loosened  by  rubbing 
the  tomato  all  over  firmly  with  the  back  of  a  silver  knife;  but 
when  more  convenient  to  use  the  hot  water  method,  the  tomatoes 
do  not  need  to  be  soft  nor  to  have  a  cooked  taste. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


268  THE   I-AUREL 

First — have  a  kettle  with  an  abundance  of  perfectly  boiling 
water,  also  a  pail  with  plenty  of  the  coldest  water  you  can  get, 
ice  water  if  possible.  Put  a  few  tomatoes  (not  enough  to  cool 
the  water  much)  into  a  wire  basket.  Plunge  into  the  boiling 
water,  let  rest  an  instant  if  very  ripe  and  a  second  longer  if  quite 
solid,  then  lift  the  basket  and  set  quickly  into  the  cold  water, 
then  turn  the  tomatoes  out  into  the  water  and  leave  them  there. 
Repeat  the  process,  take  care  each  time  that  the  water  is  boiling 
before  dipping  the  tomatoes  into  it  and  renew  the  cold  water 
when  necessary. 

Tomatoes  may  be  put  into  the  boiling  water  and  transferred 
quickly  to  the  cold  water  with  a  skimmer.  When  thoroughly 
cooled,  set  without  peeling  into  the  ice  box  until  ready  to  use. 

Baw  Tomatoes 
Peel,  slice  into  not  too  thin  slices,  or  cut  into  quarters  or 
sixths  from  the  blossom  end  just  deep  enough  for  the  pieces  to 
spread  apart  without  separating.  Serve  with  salt  or  with  some 
of  the  salad  dressings  as  a  garnish  for  meat  dishes,  or  as  fresh 
fruit  with  sugar  or  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  With  sugar  and 
heavy  cream  my  grandfather  used  to  think  tomatoes  were  more 
delicious  than  peaches  and  cream. 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Slice  tomatoes  into  sauce  pan  and  bring  to  boiling  point  slowly, 
boil  up  well,  only,  season  with  salt  and  serve.  Long  boiling 
frees  the  acid  of  tomatoes  and  renders  them  less  wholesome. 
Tomatoes  require  more  salt  forpalatability  than  any  other  article 
of  food. 

Steamed  Tomatoes 

Put  rather  small  tomatoes  on  pan  in  steamer,  steam  from  lo- 
15  m..  or  until  tender.  Serve  on  hot  toast  or  crackers  or  thin 
round  slices  of  broiled  nut  meat  with  a  dainty  spray  of  parsley 
or  chervil,  for  luncheon  or  supper;  allowing  each  guest  to  season 
to  taste.     If  desired,  drawn  butter,   cream  sauce  or  oil  may  be 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


VEGETABLES  269 

Broiled  Tomatoes 
Cut  tomatoes  in  halves  without  peeling,  dust  with  salt  and 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  broil  over  hot  coals,  skin  side  down,  15-20 
m.  Serve  plain  or  with  Sauce  Am^ricaine  or  any  desired  dress- 
ing with  wafers  or  toast.  Firm  tomatoes  may  be  cut  into  thick 
slices  and  broiled  on  both  sides.  They  may  be  just  browned 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  become  tender. 

Tomato  FnrAe 
I  qt.  stewed  tomatoes  A  few  slices  of  onion 

I  or  2  sticks  of  celery  i  tablespn.  flour 

I  teaspn.  sugar  chopped  parsley 

I  tablespn.  butter  salt 

Heat  tomatoes,  crushed  celery  and  sugar  for  1 5  m.  Simmer  on- 
ion in  butter  without  browning,  add  flour,  then  tomato,  boil  up 
well,  strain  and  add  chopped  parsley.  Serve  on  toast  or  with 
boiled  rice  or  with  some  meat  dish.  Very  nice  on  toast  with 
sliced  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Turnips 

The  later  varieties  of  turnip  are  by  far  the  best  though  some 
of  the  earlier  varieties  are  sweet  and  tender.  As  they  need  to 
be  grown  quickly  turnips  are  never  good  in  a  dry  .season  but  will 
be  pithy  and  strong.  Turnips  require  the  greatest  care  in  cook- 
ing. If  they  are  over-cooked  5  m.,  they  will  begin  to  turn  dark 
and  will  have  a  strong,  disagreeable  flavor.  For  that  reason  they 
are  better  to  be  cut  into  thin  slices.     They  must  be  boiled  rapidly. 

Boiled  Turnips 
Wash,  cut  into  quarters  or  sixths  if  large,  pare  verj'  thick,  cut 
into  %  in.  slices,  put  into  perfectly  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  for 
25  m..  or  until  just  tender.  Add  salt  at  the  end  of  20  m.  or 
when  nearly  tender,  if  at  all;  nice,  sweet  turnips  are  delicious 
without  salt.  Drain  thoroughly,  in  cheese  cloth  if  convenient. 
Serve  plain,  or  with  Chili  sauce.  Sauce  Imperial  or  Sauce  Amer- 
icaine;  or  pour  cream  sauce  over  after  draining;  or  pass  oil,  oil 
and  lemon  juice  or  French  dressing  with  them. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


370 


THE   LAUREL 


Bnta-Bagas 

There  are  white  and  yellow  nita-bagas  or  Swedish  turnips,  and 
both  are  richer  in  flavor  and  more  nutritious  than  common  tur- 
nips. The  yellow  ruta-bagas  are  especially  sweet  and  rich.  Pre- 
pare, cook  and  serve  the  same  as  turnips,  except  that  the  ruta- 
bagas require  a  little  longer  time  for  cooking.  They  are  delight- 
ful served  with  Chili  sauce,  but  are  so  rich  and  sweet  of  them- 
selves that  no  sauce  is  necessary. 

Hasbed  Tnmipa 

Mash  well  drained  boiled  turnips  with  potato  masher  in  hot 

pan.      Do  not  put  through  colander.     Season  with  salt  and  if 

not  sweet  a  little  sugar.     Serve  plain  or  with  sauce  57,  58  or  75. 

Vegetable  Stew 

Cook  separately  i  pt.  of  string  beans,  2  small  potatoes  and  2 
small  carrots  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  i  pt.  of  green  peas. 
When  tender,  drain,  put  all  together,  add  salt  and  cream  or  a 
thin  cream  sauce. 

This  makes  a  very  pretty  as  well  as  a  palatable  dish. 


STARCHLESS   VEGETABLES 

.\rti chokes.  Globe 

Artichokes,  Jerusalem 

Asparagus 

Beans,  young  string 

Beets 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Cucumbers 

Egg  Plant 

Endive 

Kohl-rabi 

Lettuce 

Okra 

Onions 

Oyster  Plant— Salsify 


Radishes 

Ruta-bagas 

Spinach  and  all  "greens" 

Squash,  summer 

Turnips 

STARCHLESS  AND  SUGARLESS 
VEGETABLES 

Asparagus 

Beans,  young  string 

Cabbage,  red  and  winter 

Cauliflower 

Egg  Plant 

Endive 

Lettuce 

Oyster  Plant— Salsify 

Radishes 

Spinach  and  all  "greens" 

The  proportion  of  sugar  in 
nearly  all  of  the  other  starchless 
vegetables  is  small. 


CH19TNT7T8 

Since  chestnuts  are  so  largely  composed  of  starch  though  they 
also  contain  a  large  proportion  of  albuminoids,  from  8.5  to  14.6 
according  to  different  authorities,  we  allow  them  to  follow  vege- 
tables while  not  classing  them  with  them.  One  writer  says 
"they  might  have  been  included  among  the  bread  stuffs."  Lon- 
don vegetarians  often  serve  a  tureen  of  plain  boiled  chestnuts 
in  place  of  potatoes. 

The  recipes  are  for  the  large  imported  chestnuts.  The  smaller 
native  ones  require  a  longer  time  for  cooking.  The  dried  chest- 
nuts which  we  sometimes  find  in  the  stores  require  3  hours  for 
boiling. 

To  Shell  and  Blanch  Chestnuts 

Boil  whole  chestnuts  rapidly  for  10  m.  Leave  in  the  hot 
water,  shell  and  remove  the  brown  covering  while  warm. 


Boiled  Chestnuts 
Cook  blanched   chestnuts   in   salted   water  until  just  tender, 
1020  m,  drain,  serve   plain  or   with   sauce    14,  16  or  17.     Or, 
boil  whole  for  25  m.  and  serve  in  the  shells. 

Chestnut  Purge 
Mash  boiled  chestnuts,  add  salt,  and  cream  or  milk  and  butter. 
Beat  well,  heat  in  double  boiler,  serve  in  center  of  platter  sur- 
rounded by  nut  meat  cutlets  or  croquettes  which  in  turn  are 
garnished  with  boiled  small  onions,  Brussels  sprouts  or  flowerets 
of  cauliflower  suitably  seasoned:  or  pur^e  may  be  served  with 
globe  artichokes,  green  peas,  stewed  cucumbers  or  mashed  dry 
green  peas. 

Boasted  Chestnuts 
Make  at  right  angles  small  incisions  at  the  point  of  the  chest- 
nut.    Bake   10-20  m.   in  a  rather  hot  oven,  stirring  occasion- 
[271] 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


272  THE   LAUREL 

ally,  or  put  into  a  corn  popper  and  shake  over  the  coals. 
Cheatnut  and  Banana  Salad  with  Cream  Dressing 
Prepare  bananas  as  suggested  for  salads,  and  cover  with  Cream 
Dressing — Sweet.  Cut  boiled  chestnuts  in  quarters  and  mix 
lightly  with  bananas  and  dressing.  Serve  in  cups  or  on  dainty 
china  plates  garnished  with  flowers  or  leaves. 

Chestnut  PnrAe- Whipped  Cream 

For  luncheon,  supper  or  dessert 

Add  sugar  or  honey  with  dairy  or  cocoanut  cream  and  vanilla, 

to  mashed  chestnuts;  heat,  pile  on  dish  with  spoon  in  rocky  form 

or  force  through  vegetable  press,  and  surround  with  whipped 

cream. 

Tanilla  or  Balsin  Chestnnte 
Boil  blanched,  fresh  or  dried  chestnuts  until  tender  (fresh  i  j 
m.,  dried,  3  hours).  When  almost  tender,  add  sugar  or  honey 
to  water  and  when  the  liquid  is  nearly  boiled  away,  flavor  with 
vanilla;  finish  in  slow  oven;  serve  as  confection.  Raisin  pulp 
instead  of  vanilla  is  delightful. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SALAira 

Since  experience  has  taught  us  that  the  delicate  machinery 
of  the  body  requires  oil '  to  keep  it  running  smoothly,  salads  as 
one  of  the  most  agreeable  means  of  supplying  this  need,  have 
been  growing  in  favor. 

In  our  recipes  for  salad  dressings,  we  have  endeavored  to  give 
sufficient  variety  in  oils  to  suit  all  tastes  and  circumstances. 

"Vinegar — acetic  acid,  is  about  ten  times  as  strong  as  alcohol, 
and  makes  more  trouble  in  tbe  stomach  than  any  other  acid 
except  oxalic." — Dr.  Rand. 

"No  acid  should  be  taken  into  the  mouth  with  starch  as  it 
will  prevent  tbe  action  of  the  saliva;  but  if  starches  have  been 
properly  masticated,  and  a  proper  amount  of  saHva  mingled  with 
them,  lemon  juice  will  not  interfere  with  the  digestion  of  starch 
in  the  stomach," — Dr.  Kress. 

For  the  above  reasons,  we  use  no  flour  or  cornstarch  in  dress- 
ings, use  lemon  juice  as  the  acid,  and  exclude  potato  salad. 
Cold  potatoes  of  themselves  are  difficult  of  digestion  and  com- 
bining them  with  an  acid  renders  them  still  more  so. 

Seorets  of  SnaoesB 

Use  nuts  as  a  garnish,  or  as  an  accompaniment  to  salads  in- 
stead of  mixed  with  them,  as  they  become  tough  quickly  after 
touching  the  dressing.  Coarse  chopped  nuts  may  be  sprinkled 
over  the  salad  just  as  it  goes  to  the  table. 

In  beans,  green  or  red  French,  Lima  or  California  are  best 
for  salads  since  they  do  not  cook  to  pieces  easily. 

The  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs  are  more  digestible  when  ground 
fine,  or  pressed  through  a  wire  strainer.  When  desired  for  fancy 
shapes  they  may  be  poached  separate  from  the  yolks,  p.  199. 

Vegetables  for  salads  must  be  crisp,  tender  and  dry. 

[=73] 


■  b.Gooi^le 


274  '['HE    LAUREL 

Gather  lettuce  early  in  the  morning,  put  it  into  a  closed  pail 
or  a  paper  sack  and  leave  in  the  refrigerator  for  a  few  hours;  or 
if  it  comes  from  the  market  slightly  wilted,  cover  it  at  once  with 
ice  water  until  revived.  Never  allow  the  wind  to  blow  upon 
lettuce.  Crisp,  by  allowing  it  to  stand  in  ice  water  after  wash- 
ing until  just  before  serving,  then  drain  and  shake  in  a  wire  bas- 
ket or  in  mosquito  netting,  cheese  cloth  or  a  netted  b^. 

Celery,  parsley,  spinach,  endive  and  dandelion  may  be  kept 
fresh  the  same  as  lettuce  and  crisped  in  ice  water  before  serving. 

Always  cut  celery,  never  chop  it.  wipe  it  dry  before  cutting 
and  if  possible,  roll  in  a  dry  towel  a  moment  after  cutting. 

Unless  cabbage  is  shaved  thread-like  it  is  better  to  be  chopped. 

In  cooking  carrots  for  salads,  drain  them  when  about  half 
done  and  add  boiling  water  to  finish  cooking. 

The  apple,  grape  fruit  and  tomato  are  the  only  fruits  with 
which  a  French  or  Mayonnaise  dressing  is  harmonious. 

Dip  ripe  tomatoes  quickly  into  perfectly  boiling  water,  lift 
them  out  and  drop  into  cold  water,  change  the  water  two  or 
three  times  if  ice  is  not  at  hand,  set  them  in  a  cold  place,  and 
peel  just  before  serving. 

Do  not  mix  cut,  colored  fruits  (like  strawberries)  with  cream 
dressings.  Lay  the  pieces  between  the  layers  and  on  top  of  the 
salad. 

It  is  seldom  suitable  to  serve  fruit  salads  with  lettuce;  some 
^ass  dish  with  decorations  of  leaves,  vines  and  flowers  is  pret- 
tiest. 

As  a  rule,  do  not  mix  many  kinds  of  fruit  in  one  salad.  One 
flavor  often  destroys  another. 

Many  of  the  fruit  salads  are  suitable  for  desserts. 

Cut  oranges  in  about  the  middle  of  the  section  or  just  each 
side  of  the  membrane,  leaving  that  out  if  convenient;  then  cut 
into  pieces  crosswise. 

Cut  grape  fruit  in  halves,  then  around  the  inside  next  to  the 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SALADS  375 

skin,  and  after  removing  the  pulp,  carefully  separate  it  from  the 
membrane. 

When  juicy  fruits  are  to  be  used  with  any  but  fruit  juice  dress- 
ings, they  should  be  drained.  The  juices  may  be  used  for  nec- 
tars, other  salad  dressings  or  for  pudding  sauces. 

Soak  currants  or  pitted  sour  cherries  in  syrup  made  of  one 
part  sugar  and  two  parts  water,  for  an  hour  or  longer,  then  drain. 

For  most  salads,  bananas  are  better  cut  into  quarters  length- 
wise, then  sliced  across. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  choice,  fine  flavored  apples,  one  at  a 
time,  cut  the  quarters  into  not  too  thin  lengthwise  shces,  place 
three  or  four  of  the  slices  together  and  cut  across  into  small 
wedge-shaped  pieces.  Never  chop  apples  for  salad.  Both  apples 
and  bananas  should  be  prepared  just  as  short  a  time  before  the 
meal  as  possible  and  should  be  cut  right  into  the  dressing.  After 
being  coated  with  the  dressing  they  will  not  turn  dark. 

Shred  fresh  pineapple  according  to  directions,  p.  44.  For 
nut  and  cream  dressings  cooked  pineapple  is  preferable.  After 
draining  and  drying  canned  sliced  pineapple,  lay  two  or  three  of 
the  round  slices  together  and  cut  into  wei%e-shaped  pieces  about 
%  inch  across  at  the  large  end. 

Keep  orange,  lemon,  grape  fruit  or  tangerine  cups  in  cracked 
ice  or  ice  water  until  just  before  serving,  then  drain  and  wipe  drj-. 

The  edges  of  the  cups  maybe  pointed  or  scalloped,  and  if  cups 
are  large  the  points  may  be  cut  deep,  and  then  rolled  down. 
Apple  cups  may  be  kept  in  the  same  way,  or  the  cut  surface  may 
be  coated  with  dressing. 

We  marinate  or  pickle  some  ingredients  by  mixing  them  with 
lemon  juice,  with  or  without  salt,  or  with  French  dressing,  a 
short  time  before  serving.  Drain  if  necessary,  before  adding 
the  dressing. 

A  wooden  spoon  which  is  used  for  nothing  else  is  best  for  stir- 
ring dressings  while  cooking.  Dip  in  cold  water  and  wipe  it  just 
before  using  and  wash  in  cold  water  immediately  after. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


37^  THE   LAUREL 

Sour  cream  may  be  substituted  for  sweet  cream  in  all  dress- 
ings; a  little  less  lemon  juice  is  required. 

One-third  water  may  be  used  with  lemon  juice  for  dressings  if 
too  sour. 

Use  plenty  of  salt  in  dressings  for  people  accustomed  to  mus- 
tard and  pepper. 

For  uncooked  dressings  all  the  ingredients  and  utensils  should 
be  as  nearly  ice  cold  as  possible.   . 

The  yolks  of  five  eg^  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  three  whole 
e^s  in  boiled  dressings. 

For  salads  with  eggs,  tomatoes  or  cabbage,  a  larger  proportion 
of  lemon  juice  and  salt  is  required,  and  with  tomatoes  a  little 
sugar  is  an  improvement. 

COOKED  SBESBIKGB 
it  ImproTed  Mayonnaise  SreBsing 
4  large  eggS  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

H  cup  oil  I  teaspn.  salt 

Beat  all  the  ingredients  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler 
just  enough  to  blend  well.  Put  into  the  outer  boiler  containing 
warm  (not  hot)  water,  set  over  fire,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon 
continuously,  taking  the  inner  boiler  out  occasionally  and  stir- 
ring well  if  there  is  danger  of  cooking  too  rapidly.  When  the 
dressing  begins  to  thicken,  remove  at  once  from  the  fire  and  set 
in  a  dish  of  cold  water  which  was  all  ready,  stirring  until  par- 
tially cooled.     Strain  through  a  wire  strainer. 

The  recipe  for  this  dressing  (with  some  unhygienic  adjuncts) 
was  given  to  me  in  the  early  days  of  my  work  by  a  lady  to  whom 
a  famous  chef  had  given  it  as  a  special  favor;  and  to  my  mind 
its  value  is  unequalled.  It  has  not  an  excess  of  oil  like  the  reg- 
ular mayonnaise,  is  easily  and  quickly  made  and  will  keep  well 
in  a  cool  place,  covered.  I  sometimes  use  j4  cup  of  oil  and  % 
cup  of  lemon  juice,  and  sometimes  just  the  reverse,  according 
to  what  I  am  using  it  over  and  the  tastes  of  the  people  for  whom 
I  am  preparing  it.     Three  eggs  will  do  very  well  if  one  needs  to 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


economize  in  eggs.     %  cup  of  cream,  whipped,  may  be  added 
just  before  serving  for  Cream  Improved  Mayonnaise. 

Butter  Dresaing 
Use  melted  butter   and   less   salt   in    improved   mayonnaise 
dressing. 

•k  Boiled  Salad  Dressing— Large  quantl^ 
8-10  eggs  I  cup  lemon  juice 

1%  cup  oil  a-3  teaspns.  salt 

Follow  directions  for  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 

TSq  Oil  Dressing 
yolks  of  3  eggs  i  tablespus.  lemon  juice 

I  level  teaspD.  salt  whites  of  2  eggs 

Beat  yolks,  add  salt  and  lemon  juice,  cook  over  hot  water, 
cool;  add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  when  ready  to  serve. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 
Especially   good    plain   on   lettuce,    and   with  fiavorings  for 
chopped  cabbage. 

I  egg  3  tabtespns.  lemon  juice 

yi  cup  sour  cream  i  tablespn.  water 

%-H  teaspn.  salt 

Beat  e^  slightly,  add  cream,  cook  the  same  as  boiled  custard, 
cool,  add  water,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  When  desired,  water 
and  lemon  juice  may  be  flavored  according  to  directions  p.  28. 

Sweet  or  Sour  Hilk  Dressing 
Substitute  sweet  or  sour  milk  and   i   tablespn.  of  oil  or  butter 
for  sour  cream  in  preceding  recipe.     Omit  water  and  use  2  eggs 
if  desired  very  stiff. 

it  Cream  DresBing—Sweet 
For  fruits  especially,  but  suitable  for  lettuce,  cabbage,  beets, 
celery  or  carrots, 

I  cup  heavy  cream  3  tablespns.  sugar 

or  yi  cup  light  cream  3  large  eggs 

3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 


.b,Goo<^lc 


278  THE   LAUREL 

Beat  cream,  sugar  and  e^s  in  inner  cup  of  double  boiler; 
cook  as  for  custard,  set  dish  in  cold  water;  add  the  lemon  juice 
gradually,  stirring,  then  a  trifle  of  salt,  strain. 

%  only  of  the  cream  may  be  cooked  and  the  remainder 
whipped  and  added  to  cold  dressing.  In  substituting  sour  cream 
for  sweet,  use  i-l  %  tablespn.  only  of  lemon  juice. 

*  Nut  Dreaaing-no  eggs 
2  slightly  rounded  tablespns.         J^-J^  cup  water 
Brazil,  almond,  pine  nut  or  ^  teaspn.  salt 

roasted  or  unroasted  peanut  I-I/4  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

butter 

Rub  butter  smooth  with  water,  cook  just  a  moment,  stirring. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  salt  and  lemon  juice,  cool. 

Some  flavoring  is  an  improvement  with  the  unroasted  peanut 
butter. 

Roasted  peanut  butter  dressing  and  improved  mayonnaise 
dressing  may  be  combined  with  a  very  pleasing  effect. 

Use  from  %-}i.  cup  strained  stewed  tomato  in  place  of  the 
water,  and  %  teaspn,  of  salt,  for  Nut  Tomato  Dressing. 

it  Almond  Butter  Dr«BBing 
Add  2  tabiespns.  of  sugar  to  the  nut  dressing  made  with  alm- 
ond butter  and  you  have  one  of  the  most  delightful  fruit  salad 
dressings. 

Hhubsrb  Salad  Dreuing 
While  the  liberal  use  of  rhubarb  is  not  to  be  recommended  on 
account  of  the  oxalic  acid  it  contains,  it  affords  variety  in  dress- 
ings  and   has   the   advantage   of   always   being  at  hand  in  the 
country  when  one  gets  out  of  lemons. 

3  large  or  4  small  eggs  %  cup  prepared  rhubarb 

%  cup  oil  %-yi  teaspn.  salt 

Stew  rhubarb  without  peehng,  with  not  more  than  one  table- 
spoon of  water  to  the  quart  of  rhubarb.  Rub  through  a  fine  col- 
ander or  sieve,  mix  in  the  proportions  given,  with  the  other  in- 
gredients and  cook  the  same  as  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


Green  gooseberries  prepared  in  the  same  way  may  be  used  in 
the  place  of  rhubarb. 

Olive  Dressing 
Make  "No  Oil"  dressing  with  i}^  only,  tablespn.  lemon  juice 
and  just  before  serving  sprinkle  over  it  two  tablespns.  coarse 
chopped  ripe  olives. 

Tomato  Dreuing 
Excellent  on  apples,  string  beans,  celery,  cabbageand  lettuce, 
on  peas  croquettes,  and  for  decorating.' 

3  large  eggs  X  cup  oil 

H  cup  thick  tomato  pulp         3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 
i-iH  teaspn.  salt 

Drain  juice  from  stewed  tomatoes,  rub  pulp  through  strainer 
or  fine  colander,  combine  with  other  ingredients  and  cook  as 
improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Orange  Dressing 

For  suitable  fruit  salads. 

i-ij4  cup  sugar  fi  cup  orange  juice 

1  cup  water  5-6  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  syrup;  cool,  add  orange  and  lemon 
juice,  strain.     If  desired,  flavor  with  oil  of  orange. 

Boiled  Dressing  with  Oomstaroh 

I  insert  this  dressing  with  many  apologies  for  the  corostarch, 

which  as  we  know,  is  entirely  out  of  place  in  a  salad  dressing, 

and  trust  that  it  will  be  used  in  emergencies  only  when  eggs  are 

very  scarce. 

2  cups  water  2  teaspns.  salt 
%  cup  com  starch                                 3  eggs  or  4  yolks 

5^  cup  lemon  juice 

Boil  salt  and  water,  add  the  cornstarch  which  has  been  stirred 
smooth  with  cold  water;  boil  up,  add  beaten  e^s  and  lemon 
jiiice;  beat  well,  cool. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


THE   LAUREL 


TTNCOOKED  DItEBSINGB 


Frenoli  Dreuiug 
Suitable  for  vegetables,  apples,  tomatoes,  eggs,  legumes  and  nut 
foods. 
The  proportions  of  lemon  juice  and  oil  in  this  dressing  vary 
from  I  part  of  lemon  juice  to  4  parts  of  oil,  to  equal  parts  of 
each,  and  in  extreme  cases  to  the  use  of  four  or  five  times  as 
much  lemon  juice  as  of  oil  according  to  the  ingredients  of  the 
salad  and  individual  taste,  but  the  proportions  most  generally 
used  are  the  following: 

}i-/4  teaspn.  salt     3  tablespns.  oil     1  tablespo.  lemon  juice 
Mix  salt  and  oil  well,  add  lemon  juice  slowly,  stirring,  pour  over 
salad,  serve  at  once.      If  flavorings  are  used,  mix  them  with  the 
salt  and  oil  before  adding  the  lemon  juice.     My  experience  is 
that  this  method  of  combining  the  ingredients  gives   the  best 
results.     A  bit  of  ice  may  be  added  while  stirring,  but  if  ingre- 
dients and  utensils  are  ice  cold  it  will  not  be  necessary. 
Orange  Frenoh  Dressing 
Let  orange  juice  stand  for  a  few  moments  with  thin  shavings 
from  the  outside  of  the  rind  in  it,  strain  and  combine  with  the 
salt  and  oil  as  above,   using  equal  quantities  of  oil  and  orange 
juice  or  only  }4  as  much  of  the  juice.     Serve  over  sliced  apples 
or  tomatoes. 

Orape  Frenob  Dressing 
Equal  quantities   of   grape    and    lemon   juice  with  salt  and  a 
small  proportion  of  oil.     Delightful  over  apples,  oranges,  grape 
fruit,  pears  or  peaches,  or  suitable  combinations  of  the  same. 
Honey  Frenoh  Dressing 
Use  equal  quantities  of  lemon  juice  and  honey  or  three  or 
four  times  as  much  lemon  juice  as  of  honey,  with  oil  and  a  trifle 
of  salt,  over  lettuce  or  suitable  fruits.     Honey  and  lemon  juice 
without  the  oil  may  be  used  by  those  who  prefer  it. 
Nut  French  Dressing 
Add  water  to  any  preferred  nut  butter  until  of  the  desired  con- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SALADS  281 

sistency;  then  salt  and  lemon  juice  according  to  the  ingredients 
of  the  salad.  Butter  from  either  Brazil,  almond  or  pine  nuts  is 
good.  Raw  pine  nuts  have  much  the  flavor  of  cheese.  If  un- 
roasted  peanut  butter  is  used,  the  flavor  of  onion  or  garlic  or 
both  is  an  improvement. 

Salad  Entrde  DresBiug 
I  tablespn.  chopped  parsley  H-i  teaspn,  celery  salt 

H  tablespn.  chopped  oQion  /4  cup  olive  oil 

Ji-i  teaspn.  salt  M  cup  lemon  juice 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  oil,  then  lemon  juice  slowly,  stirring. 

Bngliah  Salad  Dressing 
i5^-2  tablespns.  sugar  K  teaspn.  salt 

1  tablespn.  oil  i  tablespn.  shredded  fresh 

2  tablespns.  lemon  juice  mint,  or  }i  teaspn.  pow- 

dered dry  mint 
ir  Lemonade  Dressing 
For  lettuce  and  many  fruits. 
I  tablespn.   each  of  lemon  juice  and  water  to  each  slightly 
rounded  tablespn.  of  st^ar.     Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.     For 
juicy  fruits,  use  lemon  juice  and  sugar  only. 
Tarragon  Dressing 
For  fruits. 
I  teaspn.    chopped   tarr^on   to   each   half   cup  of  lemonade 
dressing. 

Orange  Dressing 
H  cup  orange  juice  3  tablespns.  sugar 

X  cup  lemon  juice  rind  of  M  of  an  orange 

Cut  thin  slices  from  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind;  let  stand 
with  the  other  ingredients  for  1 5  m.  Strain  and  pour  over  fruit. 
Omit  rind  for  strawberries,  pineapple  and  such  other  fruits  as  it 
will  not  harmonize  with. 

Baspberry  Jnioe  Dreesiug 

Add  sugar  flavored  with  oil  of  orange,  with  lemon  juice,  to 
rich  red  raspberry  juice,  the  proportions  depending  upon  the 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


282  THE    LAUREL 

sweetness  of  the  raspberry  juice.     Serve  over  apple  or  apple  and 
orange. 

ir  QuiolE  Crgam  DreBBing— Sweet 
5  tablespns.  cream  j4  teaspn.  salt 

iH  tablespn.  sugar  lemon  juice  to  thicken,  per- 

haps about  I  tablespn. 

Mix  cream,  sugar  and  salt,  add  lemon  juice  slowly,  stirring 
until  dressing  is  thick,  and  be  sure  to  stop  when  it  is  thick, 

ir  Whipped  Cream  Dressing 

For  shredded  lettuce,  chopped  cabbage  or  cooked  beets,  and  some 

fruits. 

3  tablespns.  lemon  juice  H  teaspn.  salt 

2  tablespns.  sugar  /i-H  cup  of  cream 

Whip  cream  sugarand  salt  together,  chop  lemon  juice  in  lightly. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

/4  cup  sour  cream  i  teaspn.  to  a  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

H-i  teaspn.  salt 

Whip  cream  until  just  thick,  add  lemon  juice  and  salt  which 
have  been  mixed.  For  lettuce  or  apples,  use  such  flavorings  as 
fresh  mint,  tarr^on.  onion,  chives,  celery  salt  or  seed  when 
desired. 

For  Sweet  DresBing  ol  Soup  Cream — Add  1  }4  tablespn.  of  sugar 
to  lemon  juice  in  above  recipe. 

Sour  Hilk  Dressing 
2  eggs  /3  cup  sour  milk 

K  teaspn,  salt  i-ij^  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

Beat  yolks  with  salt,   add  milk,   then  lemon  juice  gradually, 
stirring,  then  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.     For  a  sweet 
dressing  add  2  tablespns.  of  sugar  to  the  whites  of  the  e^s. 
Mayonnaise  Dressing 
yolk  of  I  egg  raw  i  cup  to  i  pt.  of  oil 

(some  use  2  or  3)  i-i  j4  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

J^-i  teaspn.  salt  to  each  cup  of  oil 

Use  only  i  cup  of  oil  unless  a  very  thick  dressing  is  required. 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


SALADS  283 

Have  all  utensils  and  ingredients  cold.  In  very  hot  weather 
only,  set  dish  in  which  dressing  is  made  on  chopped  ice  or  in  ice 
water.  Use  a  soup  plate  with  a  silver  or  wooden  fork,  or  a  bowl 
with  revolving  egg  beater.  Beat  yolk  of  egg  and  salt,  add  }4-i 
teaspn.  lemon  juice,  mix  well,  then  add  oil,  drop  by  drop  at  first, 
stirring  constantly  (one  way,  some  say).  After  a  little,  oil  may 
be  added  faster.  When  mixture  becomes  thick,  stir  in  a  little 
lemon  juice.  Do  not  allow  it  to  get  too  thick  before  adding 
lemon  juice.  When  done  the  dressing  should  drop,  not  pour, 
from  a  spoon. 

If  mixture  shows  signs  of  curdling,  set  dish  on  ice,  continuing 
to  stir,  and  if  it  does  not  become  smooth  then,  add  a  teaspoon 
of  cream  or  a  little  white  of  egg  or  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
beating  well.  Or,  take  another  yolk,  begin  again  more  carefully, 
and  when  well  started  add  the  curdled  portion  slowly. 

If  a  hard  boiled  yolk  is  crushed  and  worked  smooth  with  a 
spatula  and  mixed  thoroughly  with  the  raw  yolk,  the  dressing  is 
not  so  apt  to  curdle  and  the  oil  maybe  addeda  little  more  rapidly. 

The  tendency  to  curdling  is  very  much  lessened  by  adding  the 
lemon  juice  to  the  yolk  before  any  oil  is  added. 

Cream  Uayonnaise 
Add  }4  or  an  equal   quantity   of   whipped    cream,    or   J^  to  1 
stiffly-beaten  white  of  egg  to  mayonnaise  at  serving  time. 

Green  Hayonnaiee 
Macerate  with  a  spatula  or  in  a  mortar  spinach,   parsley  or 
chervil,  tarragon,  chives  or  green  tops  of  onions,  using  a  little 
lemon  juice  if  necessary.     Express  the  juice  andadd  to  dressing. 

Mayonnaise  Cream 

Whip  }i-}4  cup  of  heavy  cream,  chop  into  it  the  beaten  yolk 

of  an  e^,  add  salt  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.      Chopped  parsley 

may  be  sprinkled  through  the  dressing,   or  a  little  green  or  red 

vegetable  coloring  may  be  used  in  it. 


.b,Gooi^lc 


284  THE   LAUREL 

TBUE  MEAT  SALADS 
For  these  salads,  rich  in  prbteids,  the  nut  dressings  are  not  re- 
quired.    As  a  rule,   lemon  juice,   lemon  juice  and  salt,  or  the 
French  dressing  with  suitable  flavorings  will  be  most  appropri- 
ate.     Use  the  different  varieties  of  Mayonnaise  with  judgement. 

'*  -k  Trumese  and  Celery  Hayonuoise 

Take  equal  quantities  (or  any  proportion  desired)  of  diced  tru- 
mese and  slender  crescent  slices  of  celery  with  a  little  very  fine 
chopped  onion.  Mix  lightly  with  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Pile  in  center  of  lettuce  border.  Serve.  Trumese  may  have 
been  marinated.  Onion  maybe  omitted.  Nasturtiums,  parsley, 
fringed  celery  or  other  garnishes  may  be  used  with  or  without 
the  lettuce. 

Hot  Nut  U«at  Salad 

Make  a  custard  of  the  yolk  of  one  or  two  eggs  or  one  whole 
egg,  and  one  cup  of  rich  milk;  add  salt,  a  little  grated  or  chopped 
onion,  celery  salt  if  desired  and  two  cups  of  diced  trumese 
which  has  been  marinated  with  two  tablespns.  of  oil,  l  or  2 
tablespns.  of  lemon  juice  and  a  little  salt.  Heat  without  over- 
cooking the  egg.  Serve  on  toast  or  in  the  center  of  large  wafers 
with  stalks  of  fringed  celery  or  with  a  sprinkling  of  sliced  crisp 
celery. 

Green  French  Bean  and  Cuonmber  Salad 

In  the  center  of  a  lettuce  or  spinach  leaf  border  place  stewed 
green  French  beans  surrounded  by  a  row  of  sliced  cucumbers. 
Garnish  with  white,  green  or  yellow  mayonnaise. 

The  combination  of  the  different  shades  of  green  is  very  pretty. 
The  addition  of  nasturtiums  gives  a  different  effect. 

Novel  Legume  Salads 
Prepare  different  colored  legumes  according  to  directions  for 
mashed  lentils,  p.  185,  very  dry.  Mold  in  block  shaped  tins  and 
when  cold  cut  into  cubes  and  serve  in  any  desired  border  with 
improved  mayonnaise  dressing.  A  railfence  of  cucumbers  sliced 
lengthwise  may  constitute  the  border.     The  French  dressing 


SALADS  285 

may  be  used,  but  there  is  nothing  quite  equal  to  a  mayonnaise 
dressing  for  mashed  legumes. 

Legome  Boses 
While  warm,  press  mashed  green  peas  or  other  legumes  (a 
little  softer  than  for  molding)  through  pastry  tube  in  form  of 
roses.     Garnish  with  a  delicate  vine  and  lemon  points,  or  with 
the  yellow  mayonnaise. 

it  Hellauthiu  (Sunflower)  Hayonnaiae 
This  salad  is  to  be  served  on  individual  plates.     When  it  is 
the  principal  dish  for  luncheon,  use  one  e^  to  each  plate,  but 
with  a  variety  of  other  dishes  two  eggs  will  be  sufficient  for  three 
plates. 

Make  a  deep  border  of  shredded  tender  lettuce  leaves  around 
a  gilt  edged  plate.  In  the  center  of  the  plate,  pile  as  high  as 
possible  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled  egg  which  has  been  pressed 
through  a  wire  strainer.  Surround  this  with  a  border  of  the 
white  which  has  also  been  vermicellied.  Then  drop  with  a  tea- 
spoon improved  mayonnaise  dressing  at  frequent  regular  inter- 
vals on  the  lettuce  border.  This  salad  gratifies  the  senses  of 
both  sight  and  taste. 

Salad  Hargaerite 
Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise.  Lay  the  halves  on 
the  vegetable  board,  the  6at  side  down,  and  cut  each  half  care- 
fully into  four  pieces.  Remove  yolk  from  pieces,  rub  through 
wire  strainer,  place  in  center  of  individual  plates  and  surround 
with  a  wreath  of  shredded  lettuce  or  of  tender  spinach  leaves. 
^  Then  place  pieces  of  white  inside  down  over  the  wreath,  radi- 
ating from  the  center.  Serve  with  French  dressing,  or  with 
roses  of  yellow  or  green  mayonnaise  around  the  outside. 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Radish  Salad 
Surround  a  molded  border  of  cottage  cheese  with  radish  lilies 
n  lettuce,  endive,  parsley,  chervil  or  spinach  border  and  fill  the 
enter  with  green  mayonnaise. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


286  THE   LAUREL 

it  Cottage  Cheew  and  Fear  Salad 

Pour  French  dressing  in  which  drained  canned  pears  whole 
or  in  halves,  have  been  soaked  for  an  hour  or  two,  over  a  mound 
of  creamy  cottage  cheese.  Surround  with  the  pears  and  garnish 
with  geranium  leaves  or  ferns.  Serve  with  crackers  or  cocoa- 
nut  crisps. 

Additional  Combinations 
To  be  served  with  any  preferred  dressing. 

Baked  or  stewed  California  or  red  kidney  or  green  French 
beans  and  string  beans. 

Lima  beans  and  eggs. 

Baked  beans  and  chopped  cabbage. 

Beans  and  tomatoes. 

Halves  or  quarters  of  hard  boiled  eggs  on  lettuce — salad  en- 
tree or  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cottage  cheese  mixed  with  sliced  celery  in  balls  or  molds. 

Cottage  cheese  and  lettuce — salad  entree  dressing. 

Cottage  cheese,  apple  and  mint — English  dressing,  or  with 
lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Cottage  cheese  and  dried  or  fresh  apple  sauce  (quite  dry) — 
cream  dressing — sweet. 

Cottle  cheese  and  drained  stewed  or  canned  cherries — 
cream  dressing — sweet. 

Cottage  cheese  and  tomatoes. 

VEaETABI.E  8AXJLDS 

it  Snow  Salad.    Cabbage 
Add  just  as  it  is  going  to  the  table,  whi^qwd  cream  dressing,  to 
I  pt.  of  chopped  crisp  white  cabbage.    Some  of  the  whipped 
cream  may  be  left  out  of  the  dressing  and  dropped  by  spoonfuls 
on  top  of  the  salad. 

IrfiTendar  or  Pink  Salad 
Use  purple  or  red  cabbage  in  the  place  of  white  in  snow  salad. 
For  luncheon,  the  cream  mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  used. 


SALADS  287 

Pink  Salad  Ho.  3 

Coarse  chopped  red  beets  with  whipped  cream  dressing.  }4  fi"^ 
cut  celery  improves  the  flavor. 

Hot  Slaw 
2  eggs  2  level  tablespns.  sugar 

/6  cup  lemon  juice  i  level  teaspn.  salt 

I  tablespn.  oil  or  butter  i  good  pint  chopped  cabbage 

Beat  eggs  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler,  pour  slowly  over 
them  stirring,  a  boiling  mixture  of  all  the  remaining  ingredients 
except  the  cabbage;  add  the  cabbage  and  cook  until  just  creamy. 
Serve  at  once. 

Cold  Slaw 

Cool  hot  slaw,  and  just  before  serving,  add  %  cup  of  cream, 
whipped.    The  slaw  is  excellent  without  the  cream,  however. 
Cauliflower  Salad 

Serve  flowerets  of  cauliflower,  cooked  according  to  directions, 
p.  246,  masked  with  improved  mayonnaise  or  with  cream  im- 
proved mayonnaise  dressing  on  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce  in  a 
border  of  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  parsley  or  nasturtiums. 
Pass  dressing. 

A  Dominion  or  Frenoh  Sam's  Salad 

Skim  from  a  pan  of  thick  sour  milk,  equal  quantities  of  cream 
and  milk.  Beat  lightly  together  and  mix  with  nice  crisp  shred- 
ded lettuce  and  salt.  I  wish  I  could  tell  you  how  highly  I  prize 
this  recipe.    Try  it. 


Tear  in  pieces  with  the  fingers,  nice  crisp  Lettuce,  mix  with 
it  a  few  leaves  of  shredded  fresh  mint,  and  pour  English  salad 
dressing  over.    Serve  at  once. 

Bpinsoh  Iieaf  Salad 

Select  the  tender  inside  leaves  of  spinach,  wash  well  and 
serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  or  in  almost  any  way 
that  lettuce  is  used,  the  flavor  of  which  they  almost  excel. 

Salad  A  la  Bosm,  or  Bossian  Salad 
Combine  as  great  a  variety  of  starchless  vegetables  in  different 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


288  THE   LAUREL 

colors  as  convenient.  Celery,  onions,  carrots,  beets,  green  peas, 
red  and  green  French  beans  and  string  beans  make  a  good  com- 
bination. Turnips,  asparagus,  cauliflower,  chives  and  parsley 
may  be  used  also,  and  some  like  a  flavoring  of  celery  seed. 

Cut  the  larger  vegetables  into  small  pieces  or  dice,  or  into 
fancy  shapes  with  vegetable  cutters  (the  pieces  left  after  cut- 
ting out  the  shapes  with  vegetable  cutters  may  be  chopped  and 
used  as  the  base  of  the  salad,  or  for  another  salad  or  for  soup); 
cut  the  string  beans  into  diamond  shapes  and  chop  the  onion 
very  fine.  Pile  the  lightly  mixed  v^etables  in  the  center  of  a 
border  of  lettuce  or  spinach  leaves;  lay  some  of  the  brightest 
pieces  on  the  top  and  pour  French  dressing  over  all. 

Beet  and  Ollre  8»lad 

In  the  center  of  a  platter  with  a  lettuce  or  variegated  beet 
leaf  border,  place  marinated  sliced  or  chopped  beets.  Surround 
the  beets  with  roses  of  cream  mayonnaise  or  mayonnaise  cream 
with  stoned  ripe  olives  between. 

Onovmber  and  Onloo  Salad 

Cut  short  crisp  cucumbers  in  halves  lengthwise,  hollow  out 
the  center  to  within  a  half  inch  of  the  rind,  pare  shells  carefully 
and  drop  into  ice  water.  Slice  or  chop  the  centers,  mix  with 
fine  cut  raw  onion,  salt  and  French  or  improved  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Drain  and  thoroughly  dry  shells,  till  with  mixture,  lay 
on  leaves  of  lettuce,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 
Cut  long  cucumbers  into  two-inch  lengths,  remove  centers,  set 
rings  upright  on  lettuce  and  fill.  Pass  dressing  if  more  is  de- 
sired. 

Asparagiu  MayonnaiM 

Place  six-inch  stalks  of  cooked  asparagus  in  rail  fence  style 
just  inside  a  lettuce  or  endive  border  on  a  platter,  with  lemon 
cups  of  mayonnaise  (one  for  each  person  to  be  served)  in  the 
center. 

it  String  Bean  and  Celery  Salad 

Cut  tender  celery  into  eighth-inch  crescents,  pour  over  it  lem- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SALADS  289 

onade  dressing  without  the  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  cup 
of  dressing  to  each  half  cup  of  celery.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  for 
an  hour  or  longer,  then  serve  over  young  string  beans  which  have 
been  cooked  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Canned  stringless  or 
string  beans  may  be  used. 

Staffed  Tomato  Salad 

Fill  hollowed  out  tomatoes  with  a  mixture  of  drained,  salted, 
grated  cucmbers,  fine  chopped  onion  and  improved  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing.    Serve  in  nest  of  lettuce  with  dressing. 

Or,  use  celery  with  improved  mayonnaise  dressing,  in  place  of 
cucumber  and  onion,  with  border  of  nuts. 

Additional  Combinations 
Dressings  given  only  where  some  special  ones  are  required. 

Beets — sliced  or  chopped — lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Beets  and  celery — lemonade,  cream  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Brussels  sprouts,  whole  or  in  halves.  Garnish  with  halves  of 
nuts  sometimes. 

Cabbage  and  onion — nut  dressing  without  egg,  of  roasted  or  un- 
roasted  peanut  butter. 

Cabbage  and  pecan  nuts. 

Carrots — cooked,  sliced  or  chopped,  with  French,  nut  or  im- 
proved mayonnaise  dressing  in  green  border;  nasturtiums  some- 
times. 

Ring  of  fresh  grated  cocoanot  around  mound  of  grated  or  fine 
ground  raw  carrot  with  cooked  cream  or  whipped  cream  or  may- 
onnaise dressing  in  lettuce  border. 

Raw  carrot,  grated  or  chopped  fine,  and  celery  or  onion. 

Carrot  cups  of  the  large  end  of  boiled  carrots.  Filling  of  car- 
rot and  onion  or  celery — French  or  mayonnaise  dressing-— row 
of  green  peas  around  inside  edge  of  cup. 

Celery  and  tomato — cream,  almond,  cream  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

Celery  or  beet  and  cocoanut — cream  or  mayonnaise  dressing 
— lettuce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


390  THE   LAUREL 

Celery  and  green  peas — nut  meats  if  wished. 

Celery  and  chopped  lettuce — onion  if  desired. 

Celery  and  Brazil  nut  slices — sweet  or  sour  dressing. 

Cucumber  and  tomato — lettuce — improved  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

Cucumber  and  radish. 

Cucumber  and  onion— whipped  sour  cream  dressing. 

•k  Peas  and  onion — nut  dressing— no  eggs,  of  roasted  peanut 
butter.   May  be  served  in  lemon  cups  with  a  half  nut  meat  on  top. 

Peas  and  carrot— onion  if  liked. 

Molds  of  chopped  cooked  spinach  on  slices  of  nut  meat,  or 
cold  boiled  beets  or  turnips — mayonnaise,  improved  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing. 

Blanched  inside  leaves  of  raw  spinach  and  fine  chopped 
onion  or  chives. 

String  or  wax  beans  and  egg. 

Wax  beans,  nuts  or  stoned  ripe  olives,  lettuce. 

FBUIT  SALADS 
•k  Apple  and  Pineapple  Salad  with  Cream  Dressing 
Prepare  apples  and  pineapple,  equal  quantities,  or  J^  only  of 
pineapple,  according  to  directions  on  p.  275.  Just  at  serving 
time,  combine  with  cream  dressing — sweet,  and  serve  in  dainty 
glasses  or  cups  (individual),  each  on  a  small  plate  with  a  doily 
and  a  cut  flower  or  leaf  or  a  spray  of  some  delicate  vine.  This 
is  a  sample  of  what  may  be  done  with  any  of  the  followings 
combinations  and  many  others: 

Apple  with  orange  or  strawberries,  red  raspberries,  canned 
cherries,  cherries  and  celery,  or  celery. 

Banana  with  apple  or  strawberries,  red  raspberries,  pineapple, 
orange  or  celery. 

Pineapple  with  orange,  red  raspberries,  strawberries,  cherries 
or  celery. 

Orange  with  red  raspberries,   strawberries,  cherries  or  celery. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SALADS  -  291 

Fresh  ripe  peaches,  seeded  Sweet  grapes  with  solid  fiesh,  and 
sweet  apples  are  among  the  suitable  fruits  for  salads. 

The  almond  butter  dressing  is  asdesirable  as  the  cream  dressing. 

Pear  and  apple  or  apple  or  pineapple  alone  with  the  almond 
dressing  are  especially  delightful.  The  whipped  cream  dressing 
may  be  used  when  more  convenient., 

if  Currant  and  Bed  Raspberry  Balad 

I  pt.  each  red  raspberries  and  very  ripe  currants,  i  or  2  teaspns. 
of  Bne  chopped  tarragon,  basil  or  sassafras  leaves,  with  lemon- 
ade dressing  of  i}4  tablespn.  each  of  lemon  juice  and  water 
and  two  tablespns.  of  sugar.  Serve  in  glasses  or  cups  with  suit- 
able decoration.     The  flavorings  niay  be  omitted. 

Pineapple  with  either  the  currants  or  raspberries  without  the 
flavorings  is  excellent.  Orange  and  red  raspberries;  grape  fruit 
and  strawberries;  apple  and  strawberries;  apple,  grape  fruit  and 
strawberries  or  orange;  apple,  banana  and  strawberries  and  other 
combinations  of  juicy  fruits  will  surest  themselves  from  the 
preceding.  When  a  sweeter  fruit  than  currants  is  used  the  pro- 
portion of  sugar  in  the  regular  lemonade  dressing  is  sufficient. 
it  Hiot  Fmit  Salads 

Oranges  or  grape  fruit  or  apples  with  shredded  mint  and 
lemonade  dressing  (water  omitted  in  first  two)  are  the  most 
delightfully  refreshing  of  salads. 

Nut  and  Banana  Salad 

Roll  small  peeled   bananas    in    any    of    the  sweetened  cream 

dressings,  then   In    chopped    nuts.     Serve   on    individual  plates 

with  a  spoonful  of  dressing,    with  orange   points  and  candied 

cranberries  or  cherries,  or  frosted  currants  for  garnish. 

Apple  and  Cranberry  Salad 

Grind  ripe  cranberries  fine  and  mix  with  a  liberal  supply  of 
one  of  the  sweetened  cream  dressings.  Prepare  apple  also  with 
the  dressing  and  place  the  two  in  high  alternating  diagonal  rows 
on  a  platter  with  lettuce   border;  or  prepared  apples    may  be 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


292  THE   LAUREL 

placed  on  the  platter  and  spoonfuls  of  the  cranberry  dropped  on 
top.     Whole  berries  may  dot  the  lettuce  border. 
Sweflt  Fmit  and  Coooaont  Salads 
Fresh  grated  cocoanut  in  center  of  dish,   border  of  black  or 
red  raspberries,  blueberries,  sliced  or  halved  peaches  or  bananas, 
cream  dressing — sweet  or  whipped  cream  dressing.     No  lettuce. 

Oriental  Salad 
Grape  fruit  and  oranges — mayonnaise.     The  dressing  some- 
times tinted  delicately  with  pink  and  green  or  green  only. 

Feaoh  Salad 

Sprinkle  shredded  basil,  tarragon  or  sassafras  leaves  over  sliced 
or  halved  pared  peaches  and  cover  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
Garnish  or  serve,  with  blanched  almonds. 

Or,  serve  peaches  with  cream  dressing — sweet  or  whipped  cream 
dressing  in  cups,  with  nuts. 

Cooked  Apple  Balad 
Dry,  fresh  or  dried  apple  sauce,  or  baked  whole  or  quarters  of 
apples  (all  without  sugar)  cream  dressing — sweet,  nut,  whipped 
sweet  or  sour  cream,    French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.     Serve 
decorated  to  taste. 

LoTe  Apple  Salad 
Whole  peeled  tomatoes  in  nests  of  lettuce,  or  with  some  leaf 
or  flower  garnish,  with  a  cream,  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Or,  cut  tomatoes  into  quarters  or  sixths  from  the  blossom  end 
j-jst  deep  enough  for  the  pieces  to  spread  apart  without  separating. 
Orape  Fmlt  and  Celery 
Equal  quantitiesofgrapefruit  and  finesliced  celery  with  mayon- 
naise or  improved  mayonnaise  dressing  in  grape  fruit  cups  with 
edges  cut  in  deep  points  and  rolled  down.     Some  green  garnish. 
Additional  CombinationB 
Apples — salad  entree  dressing. 

Apple  and  onion — roasted  peanut,  improved  mayonnaise, 
French  or  whipped  sour  cream  dressing. 


SALADS  293 

Apples  and  cucumbers-^Dominion  salad  dressing. 

Apples,  celery  and  a  few  raisins — one  of  the  sweet  dressings, 
garnish  with  blanched  almonds. 

Celery  with  apples  or  tomatoes  or  pineapple  or  apple  and 
tomato,  A.  la  string  bean  and  celery  salad. 

Peach  and  tomato  with  or  without  basil  or  tarr^on. 

Sweet  apples  alone  and  in  combinations — almond  butter 
dressing. 

Tomato  and  banana — some  sweet  dressing. 

Grape  Fruit — French  dressing  on  lettuce. 

Tomato  and  grape  fruit — lemon  juice  and  sugar,  or  orange 
French  dressing. 

Red  raspberries  with  currant  juice. 

Canned  or  fresh  red  raspberries — lemon  juice  or  lemon  juice 
and  si^ar. 

Apples,  celery  and  butternut  meats — improved  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Tomato  and  apple — honey  French  dressing. 

Cumquots — Tom  Thumb  oranges,  and  Malaga  grapes — fruit 
juice  dressing. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINGS  WITHOnT  EGOS 


it  Apple  Ihunpling— Baked 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  nice  tart  apples,  lay  inside  down,  in 
flat  pudding  dish  or  pan,  cover  and  set  in  gentle  heat  so  that 
the  apples  will  become  just  warm  ail  through. 

Crust — Make  universal  crust  with  H  to  i  cup  of  liquid  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  required.  Roll  H-H  in.  thick,  cut  with  bis- 
cuit cutter,  lay  close  together  on  warm  apples.  Cover  with  a 
pan  that  will  allow  the  crust  to  rise  underneath  it,  set  in  wann 
place  and  let  crust  get  very  light. 

Start  the  dumplings  early  enoi^h  to  give  plenty  of  time  at 
each  stage.  When  crust  is  light,  bake  uncovered  at  first,  in 
moderate  oven  ^-l  hr,,  or  until  apples  are  well  cooked  and 
crust  thoroughly  baked.  Serve  with  creamy,  or  hard  sauce,  or 
with  st^r  and  nut  or  sterilized  dairy,  cream.  Do  not  put  any 
sugar,  butter,  salt  or  water  on  the  apples.  Leave  them  plain 
to  contrast  the  apple  flavor  with  the  sauce.  A  pastry  crust  may 
be  used  with  the  apples,  but  is  not  so  satisfying.  A  crust  of 
boiled  rice  laid  over  the  apples  and  baked  covered,  is  very  nice 
with  them. 

•ir  Apple  Dampling^-Steamed 

Place  the  apples  in  the  bottom  of  an  oiled  kettle  (aluminum 
preferably),  the  same  as  in  the  pudding  dish  for  baking.  Pour 
warm  water  over  to  one-third  or  one-half  cover,  or  just  enough 
to  cook  them  without  scorching.  Cover  apples  with  crust  as  in 
baked  dumpling.  Let  crust  rise  very  light,  cover  the  kettle 
close  (put  a  weight  on  the  cover),  and  set  in  moderately  hot 
place  over  the  fire.  When  boiling  well,  carefully  move  the 
kettle  back  where  it  will  boil  slowly  but  steadily.  Place  an  as- 
bestos pad  under  it  if  necessary.  Cook  without  removing  the 
[294] 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


PUDDINGS   WITHOUT   EGGS  295 

cover  25t30  m.  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.     Serve  with  any 
sauce  suitable  for  baked  dumplings. 

Feaoh  Dumplings 

Cut  universal  dough  intorounds  as  large  asasaucer,  pile  halves 
of  peaches  in  center,  press  edges  firmly  together  around  peaches, 
lay  in  deep  pan  and  bake  when  crust  is  light.  Serve  with  almond 
or  dairy  cream  or  any  suitable  sauce.  Or,  cut  rounds  smaller, 
lay  peaches  on  one  and  cover  with  another.  Wet  edges  and 
press  together, 

ir  Fmit  Tarts  or  DompUngs 

Put  blueberries,  blackberries,"  raspberries,  gooseberries,  cran- 
berries or  any  desired  fruit  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish;  mix 
si^r,  a  little  tlour  and  salt  together  and  add  to  berries.  (Blue- 
berries will  require  a  little  water.)  Warm,  and  cover  with  crust 
as  for  baked  apple  dumpling.  Bake  when  crust  is  light  and  serve 
without  sauce. 

Cranberries  and  gooseberries  may  be  baked  with  very  little  if 
any  sugar  and  served  with  hard  sauce. 

A  tart  of  unsweetened  peaches  is  nice  served  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

if  Blueberry  Pot  Pie~Delioloiu 
Universal  crust  of  Ji  cup  milk        H  cup  sugar 

3  pts.  berries  ^  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

%-i  cup  water 

Put  blueberries  with  sugar  in  bottom  of  preserving  kettle,  pour 
water  over,  cover  with  crust,  let  rise  and  cook  the  same  as 
steamed  apple  dumpling.     No  sauce. 

Cranberry  and  gooseberry  pot  pie    may    be  made  in  the  same 
way  and  served  with  hard  or  creamy  sauce. 
Orange  Boly-Foly 

4  oranges  !^-3^  teaspn.  grated  rind 
/^•i  cup  sugar                                 salt 

Peel  all  white  from  oranges.  Divide  into  unbroken  sections. 
Make  universal  crust  of  i  cup  of  milk  with  a  lai^e  measure  of  oil. 
When  light,  add  salt  with  flour  to  make  a  dough  stiB  enough  to 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


296  THE    LAUREL 

roll;  roll  in  oblong  sheet,  spread  with  orange  sections,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  roll  close  and  carefully,  moisten  the  edges  at  the 
ends  and  pinch  well  tt^ether.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  35-45  m., 
or  steam  1 J4  hour.  Serve  with  lemon,  hard,  or  foamy  white 
sauce,  or  with  cream. 

Dutob  Apple  Cake 

Spread  a  thin  layer  of  universal  crust  on  shallow  baking  pan: 
press  warm  eighths  of  apples,  sharp  edge  down,  into  crust, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  let  rise,  bake,  covered  part  of  the  time  if 
necessary  to  cook  the  apples;  serve  as  "tea-cake,"or  with  sauce 
as  pudding.  Let  dough  extend  up  the  sides  of  the  pan  a  little 
to  keep  the  juice  from  running  o&. 

Make  Feaoh  Cake  the  same  way,  with  halves  or  slices  of 
peaches. 

Short  CakeB 

Bake  universal  crust  in  flat  square  or  round  tins.  Split,  spread 
with  butter  or  not,  and  cover  lower  half  with  a  generous  layer 
of  fruit.  Turn  the  upper  half  over  so  that  the  cut  side  is  up, 
and  cover  that,  too,  with  fruit, 

A  meringue  or  fluff  may  be  used  sometimes  for  ornamentation, 
but  if  fruit  is  properly  prepared  and  freely  used,  cream  will  not 
be  required;  it  would  better  be  saved  for  some  more  necessary 
place. 

Two  very  thin  crusts  may  be  used,  but  the  fruit  flavor  does 
not  penetrate  them  as  it  does  the  split  crust.  Make  the  crust 
stiff  enough  to  give  a  fine  grain  but  not  so  stiff  as  to  be  hard. 
It  may  be  baked  in  not  too  thick  biscuit  for  individual  serving. 

Crusts  may  be  baked  several  days  beforehand  and  kept  closely 
covered.  To  serve,  dip  in  cold  water,  slip  in  paper  b;^,  set  in 
hot  oven  for  about  10  m.  and  use  as  fresh  baked  crust. 

Do  not  use  cake,  or  a  sweetened  crust,  and  call  it  "shortcake." 

One  in  writing  of  strawberry  short  cake  says:  "It  must  be 
remembered  that  the  fruit  must  be  served  on  a  genuine  short- 
cake not  the  sweet   cake   of   the   restaurant    and   of  too  many 

U.q,t,zc„b,COO»^IC 


PUDDINGS   WITHOUT   EGGS  397 

households,  but  the  plain,  unsweetened  cake  that  was  the  delight 
of  our  fathers,  and  which  is  still  the  joy  of  those  who  have  been 
so  fortunate  as  to  have  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  blessings 
of  the  tasty  and  nutritious  cookery  of  the  olden  times." 

Some  unsweetened,  flaked,  cereal  preparations,  crimed  in  the 
oven,  make  delightful  shortcakes  by  sprinkling  a  few  flakes  on  a 
plate,  covering  them  with  prepared  fruit,  then  sprinkling  the 
fruit  generously  with  flakes.  They  must  be  served  as  soon  as 
prepared. 

Shortoake  FiUinga 
StTEwberrieB — Leave  out  a  few  small  berries  or  cut  some  of 
the  smaller  ones  in  halves  or  quarters  and  set  one  side.  Save 
also  some  of  the  largest  and  cut  into  halves,  or  leave  whole  with 
the  stems  on.  Put  a  little  butter  into  a  granite  pan,  add  ber- 
ries with  not  too  much  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Crush  over  the 
fire  with  wire  potato  masher  just  enough  to  make  juicy.  Mix 
well  with  butter,  stir  carefully  until  just  warm.  Add  small  ber- 
ries, spread  crusts,  place  whole  berriesr  or  cut  halves  cut  side  up, 
on  top.  Serve  shortcake  at  once  on  dessert  tray  or  platter  with 
a  cluster  of  ferns  or  geranium  or  other  green  leaves  at  the  side. 

Or,  cut  berries  in  small  pieces  just  before  serving,  sprinkle 
crust  with  sugar  mixed  with  a  trifle  of  salt.  Cover  with  berries 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  lay  on  upper  crust  and  cover  the  same. 

Or,  chop  not  crush  berries  with  sugar  and  serve  with  sweet- 
ened juice  of  berries  or  with  crushed  strawberries  sweetened,  to 
be  dipped  over  each  slice  as  served. 

BupberriM — red  or  black — Prepare  and  serve  same  as  straw- 
berries. 

Blnabflrrtea — Stew  berries  with  sugar  and  water,  add  a  little 
lemon  juice,  a  trifle  of  salt  and  thicken  a  little,  hardly  enough 
to  know  they  are  thickened,  with  corn  starch. 

PttftohM — Cut  into  eighths  or  sHce,  fresh  ripe  peaches  just 
before  serving.  Lay  them  over  thin  crusts  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar.  Arrange  pieces  around  the  outside  et^e  of  the  top  crust 
and  ssrve  with  nut  or  dairy  cream. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


298  THE   LAUREL 

Or,  stew  halves  of  peaches  in  syrup,  thicken  syrup  a  little 
with  corn  starch  and  add  a  bit  of  butter,  lay  peaches  inside  up, 
on  crusts  and  pour  juice  over,  juice  may  be  delicately  flavored 
with  almond.     A  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added. 

Aprioota — fresh — Prepare  the  same  as  peaches. 

Aprioots — dried — Soak  over  night,  add  i-i  %  cup  sugar  to  i 
lb.  of  fruit,  heat  slowly,  just  boil,  remove  fruit  and  spread  over 
cakes,  leaving  i  qt.  of  juice.  To  this  add  %  cup  of  sugar  and 
thicken  with  4  level  tablespns.  com  starch.  Add  i  tablespn. 
lemon  juice  and  if  desired,  2  tablespns.  butter.  Pour  over  short- 
cake, or  preferably  serve  with  it. 

Pntues — Stew  prunes  with  a  little  sugar,  stone,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  spread  on  cnist ;  thicken  juice  a  trifle  and  turn  over 
all.  Prune  shortcake  is  delicious  served  with  almond  cream 
or  covered  with  whipped  cream.  A  little  lemon  juice  may  be 
added  to  the  prunes. 

Honey — Split  and  butter  crust;  spread  thick  with  honey, 
serve  hot. 

Uaple — Cook  maple  syrup  and  butter  or  cream  together  and 
serve  warm  over  crust. 

Canned  fruits  of  nearly  all  kinds  may  be  used  in  the  winter 
for  shortcakes  by  thickening  the  juice  a' little  with  corn  starch. 

Steamed  Blueberry  or  Other  Fntit  Padding 

Make  ingredients  for  universal  crust  into  stiff  batter  or  soft 
dough,  according  to  the  juiciness  of  the  fruit  to  be  used  with  it; 
mix  and  beat  well,  let  rise;  add  dried  or  fresh  blueberries  (huckle- 
berries), cranberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  fresh  or  dried  or 
drained  canned,  cherries,  or  any  convenient  fruit;  put  into  well 
oiled  mold,  cover  or  not  and  steam  i-i>i  hour.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  with  foamy,  hard  or  cocoanut  sauce. 

Or,  make  a  doi^h  stiff  enough  to  knead,  shape  into  biscuit, 
fold  and  press  berries  in  while  shaping,  lay  balls  on  pie  pan,  let 
rise  and  steam.  Or,  make  into  one  lai^e  loaf,  and  steam.  Figs 
or  dates  cut  with  shears  into  small  pieces  may  be  used  and  the 


PUDDINGS  WITHOUT  EGGS  ?,99 

pudding  served  with  orange  or  any  of  the  sauces  already  given. 

it  Plain  Steamed  Pnddiag 
Steam  sweetened  or  unsweetened  universal  crust  in  large  or 
individual  molds   %-l   hour;  serve  with  molasses,  maple,  berry, 
foamy  or  creamy  sauce. 

ir  Dutob  Boiled  or  Steamed  Padding 
Make  universal  crust  with  only  %  cup  of  oil  to  the  cup  of  liquid 
and  mix  as  stiR  as  bread  dough.  Put  into  a  well  buttered  double 
cheese  cloth,  let  rise,  drop  into  perfectly  boiling  water  and  boil 
30-40  m.  Remove  from  cloth,  split  and  lay  on  dessert  tray, 
spread  with  butter,  cover  with  nice  flavored  molasses  and  serve 
hot.  Try  it  before  you  condemn  it.  The  crust  may  be  steamed 
instead  of  boiled,  but  it  is  beautifully  light  when  boiled.  Molas- 
ses, or  maple  or  brown  sugar  syrup  may  be  heated  with  a  little 
butter  and  served  over  pudding  as  sauce. 

Cottage  Podding 
Bake  rather  stiff,  slightly  sweetened  universal  crust  and  serve 
with  Annie's  Strawberry  ("o  "  of  Hard  Sauce  Variations)  or  any 
preferred  sauce.  Add  fine  cut,  drained  stewed  prunes  to  pud- 
ding occasionally  before  baking  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  of 
the  juice. 

Pear  Cobbler 
3  rounded  qts.  halved  or  3^-3  tablespns.  flour 

quartered  j^ears  a  trifle  of  salt 

%  cup  sugar  i  J4  cup  water 

Sprinkle  mixed  sugar,  flour  and  salt  over  pears  in  pudding  dish, 
pour  water  over  and  cover  with  universal  crust.  Bake  when 
crust  is  well  risen.  1  %  cup  of  sugar  and  I  j4  tablespn.  of  lemon 
juice  give  character  to  the  filling. 

Hother'B  Peaoh  Cobbler--BiUy*B  Farorite 

Line  pudding  dish  with  pie  paste.  Fill  with  pared,  whole 
peaches.  Mix  sugar,  a  little  butter  and  flour  together;  pour 
boiling  water  over,  stirring.      Boil   up  well,    cool,  pour  over 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


30O  THE   LAUREL 

peaches,     cover    with    crust,     bake    in    moderate   oven    until 
peaches  are  soft. 

Apple  Scallop 

Mix  together  sugar,  flour  and  butter  in  the  proportion  of  I 
tablespoon  of  flour  and  2  of  butter  to  each  cup  of  sugar  with  a 
little  salt  and  sprinkle  between  layers  of  eighths  of  apples  in 
pudding  dish ;  cover  dish  and  bake  slowly  until  apples  are  tender, 
then  uncover  for  a  time.  If  apples  are  dry,  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
water  may  be  put  in  the  dish.  Bake  about  i  hour  in  all. 
Mary's  Scalloped  Apple  Podding 

Put  a  layer  of  quartered  apples,  sugar  and  a  trifle  of  salt*in  the 
bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  sprinkling  of  dry  bread  crumbs; 
continue  layers  to  fill  the  dish,  leave  crumbs  on  top,  pour  over 
all  water  to  cook  slowly  for  several  hours  until  apples  are  a  rich 
red  color.  Serve  with  or  without  cream  or  other  sauce.  If  pre- 
ferred the  pudding  may  be  baked  with  less  water  for  a  shorter 
time.  Use  cracker  crumbs  instead  of  bread  and  you  have  a 
different  pudding. 

Scalloped  Baspbeniee,  Blaeberries  or  Feaclies 

Put  fruit  and  crumbs  or  very  thin  slices  of  bread  in  layers  in 
pudding  dish,  sprinkle  each  layer  with  sugar  and  have  crumbs  on 
top.  Cover  and  bake  about  %  hr.,  uncover  to  brown,  serve 
hot  or  cold  with  cream — nut  or  dairy.  Leave  out  sugar  and  serve 
with  cream  sauce. 

Bread  aad  Carrant  Pudding 

Put  small  pieces  of  dry  bread  in  pudding  pan,  sprinkle  with 
English  currants,  pour  enough  hot,  slightly  salted  water  over  to 
moisten  well,  bake  in  moderate  oven  1-2  hours.  Serve  with  any 
desired  sauce  or  nut  or  dairy  cream. 

Or,  sprinkle  sugar  over  bread  before  adding  water  and  serve 
plain  or  with  unsweetened  sauce.  The  currants  give  the  pudding 
a  nice  flavor  if  it  is  otherwise  plain. 

Bread  and  Uilk  Pudding 

Use  hot  nut  or  dairy  milk  instead  of  water  in  preceding  recipe. 


.b,Coo»^lc 


PUDDINGS   WITHOUT   EGGS  3OI 

Steamed  F^  Podding 

1  pt.  stale  bread  crumbs  iH  cup  rich  milk 

1  large  cup  fine  ground  figs  salt 

Mix  all  together;  use  a  trifle  less  milk  if  crumbs  are  quite 
moist,  steam  2-3  hours;  serve  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  steamer, 
with  creamy,  orange  or  cream  sauce,  or  with  cream  whipped  or 
plain;  never  with  lemon  sauce. 

If  to  be  served  with  unsweetened  cream,  put  %  cup  of  sugar 
in  pudding. 

ir  Plum  Pudding  of  Crumbs 
I  rounding  pt.  of  dry  bread  crumbs  J^  cup  seeded  raisins 

I  small  cup  molasses  2j4-3  cups  milk 

^  cup  sugar  salt 

5team,  covered,  4-5  hours.  Stand  out  of  steamer  for  10-15 
m,  before  unmolding.  The  quantity  of  milk  will  depend  on  the 
kind  of  crumbs.  Serve  with  vanilla  flavored  orange  syrup  sauce, 
plain  pudding  sauce  or  almond  cream  sauce. 

The  combined  flavors  of  vanilla  and  orange  in  sauces  are 
especially  suitable  for  plum  puddings. 

Any  of  the  puddings  may  be  steamed  in  cups  or  small  molds. 

Raised  cake  with  fruit,  baked  or  steamed,  may  be  served  for 
plum  pudding.     Keep  wrapped  in  oiled  paper. 

American  Plum  Pudding 

5  cups  coarse  dry  bread  crumbs  i  lb.  each  raisins  and  figs 

■2J4  cups  grated  carrot  cut  fine  with  shears 

i/^  cup  molasses,  or  i/^  cupsugar      ^  lb.  currants 
2  teaspns.  salt  H  lb.  citron  sliced 

2-4.  cups  boiling  water 
Steam  4-6  hours.     Serve  with  sauces  given  for  plum  pudding 
of  crumbs. 

Plum  Pudding 
1  qt.  (pressed  down  a  little)  K  cup  citron,  ground 

stale  bread  crumbs  a  cups  chopped  apple 

2H  cups  water  (i  cup  grape  i  cup  chopped,  blanched  aim- 

juice  and  I  /4  cup  water  if  onds 

convenient  4  or  5  tablespns.  browned 


H  cup  English  currants  flour 

H  cup  raisins,  ground  2  teaspns.  salt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


302  THE   LAUREL 

Mix  crumbs,  almonds,  browned  flour  and  salt  and  add  apples. 
Pour  boiling  liquid  gradually  over  dried  fruits,  mixing,  until  they 
are  separated;  then  combine  all  ingredients.  Turn  into  well 
buttered  molds,  cover  and  steam  3-4  hours.  Serve  with  orange 
syrup  sauce  or  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  vanilla  and  oil  of 
orange,  or  with  e^  cream  sauce. 

J4  to  I  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  l  or  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
may  be  used  in  the  pudding.  The  quantity  of  Hquid  will  vary 
with  the  conditions,  but  a  moderately  soft  batter  is  required. 

if  Steamed  Whole  Wheat  Padding 
I  cup  milk  I  cup  raisins  or  currants 

1  cup  molasses  J4  cup  oil 

2  cups  whole  wheat  flour         salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  but  flour,  agitate  liquid  with  batter  whip 
until  full  of  bubbles,  sprinkle  flour  in  slowly  with  the  left  hand, 
keeping  up  the  agitating  motion  with  the  right.  When  the 
flour  is  all  in  and  the  batter  foamy,  put  into  well  oiledmold,  let 
stand  in  a  cold  place  J4  hour  or  longer,  then  set  in  steamer  and 
steam  3  or  4  hrs.  Serve  hot  with  creamy,  foamy,  hard  or  other 
sauce.     2%  cups  of  bread  flour  may  be  used. 

Tapioca  Puddlngs-'Orannlar  Tapfooa 
Any  of  the  granular  preparations — minute  tapioca,  cassava, 
manioc  or  manioca  may  be  used. 

5  tablespns.  tapioca      i  cup  warm  water      soak  10-30  m. 

Syrup — H-i  cup  sugar  J4  teaspn.  salt 

3  cups  water 

Stir  together  until  dissolved. 

•iLpple — Prepare  syrup  in  flat  bottomed  granite  or  porcelain 
lined  pan.  When  boiling,  drop  in,  inside  down,  quarters  of  6 
medium  sized,  juicy  apples.  Cook  until  nearly  tender,  add 
soaked  tapioca,  pressing  it  down  into  the  syrup,  cover  dish  and 
simmer  slowly  until  tapioca  is  transparent,  5-15  ^-  Serve  warm 
(not  hot)  or  cold,  plain  or  with  orange  e^  cream  or  custard 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITHOUT  EGGS  303 

sauce  if  cold;  or  orange  or  cocoanut  flavored  hard  sauce  if  warm; 
or  with  nut  or  whipped  dairy  cream. 

Peaota — Make  the  same  as  Apple  Tapioca,  using  twice  as  many 
peaches,  in  halves. 

Strawberry,  Bsspberry  and  Other  Berries — Cook  soaked  tapioca 
in  the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  berries;  mix  carefully  and  pour 
into  a  pudding  or  fancy  dish.  Serve  cold.  A  fluff  of  the  fruit 
may  be  used  for  the  sauce,  if  any. 

Stewed  or  Canned  Fruit — Cook  soaked  tapioca  in  the  syrup 
andpouroverdrained  canned  fruit.  Serve  warm,  with  the  juice  of 
the  fruit  (to  which  a  Httle  lemon  juice  and  sugar  have  been 
added  if  needed),  thickened  a  trifle  with  corn  starch  or  arrow- 
root; or,  cold  with  whipped  cream,  custard  or  other  sauce. 

Fig^ — Steam  figs  until  tender  (30-35  m.),  cut  in  pieces  with 
shears  and  stir  into  tapioca  cooked  in  the  syrup.  Ser\e  warm  or 
cold  with  orange  egg  cream  sauce. 

Prune — Cook  tapioca  in  syrup  with  a  little  lemon  juice  if  de- 
sired,  and  add  quartered,   slightly   sweetened   stewed    prunes. 
Serve  with  rich  juice  of  prunes,  cream  or  whipped  cream. 
Apple  Tapioca  Podding-Fearl  or  Flake  Tapiooa 

Soak  H  cup  pearl  or  flake  tapioca  in  5  cups  of  warm  water  for 
3  hours  or  over  night.  Pour  over  whole  pared  cored  apples  in 
pudding  dish.  Cover  dish  and  bake  until  apples  are  tender  and 
tapioca  transparent.  Serve  warm  with  hard,  foamy  or  creamy 
sauce,  or  cold  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

If  preferred,  %-\  cup  of  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  soaked 
tapioca  and  the  pudding  served  plain  or  with  unsweetened  cus- 
tard sauce  or  cream.  When  the  pudding  is  to  be  served  at  the 
table,  it  may  be  covered  with  a  meringue  while  hot  and  delicately 
browned  in  the  oven.  Use  with  other  fruits  the  same  as  gran- 
ular tapioca. 

ir  Sister  BramliaU'R  Tapiooa  Cream 
yi  cup  granular  (  H  cup  pearl  i  qt.  milk 

or  flake)  tapioca  I  teaspn.  vanilla,  or  no 

i4-H  cup  sugar  flavoring 

H  teaspn.  salt 


.b,Goo<^lc 


304  THE   LAUREL 

Put  all  together  in  pudding  dish,  soak  for  i  hour,  stirring; 
then  set  in  oven  and  bake  slowly,  stirring,  until  tapioca  is  trans- 
parent ;  brown  over  top  at  last ;  serve  warm  or  cold. 

May  bake  without  stirring  for  2  hrs.  The  pudding  may  be 
cooked  entirely  in  a  double  boiler,  i  cup  of  raisins  may  be  used 
for  variety. 

Sago  Cream— instead  of  loe  Cream 
M  cup  sago  a  cups  water  with  heavy  cream, 

H  cup  sugar  or  i  with  thinner 

3  cups  heavy  cream  or  4  nf  thinaer  cream       i  }^  teaspn.  vanilla 

Soak  sago  in  warm  water  I-3  hrs.,  add  to  cream  and  sugar  in 
double  boiler,  cook,  stirring,  till  sago  is  transparent;  remove 
from  fire,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  vanilla.  Serve  cold  in 
glasses  with  two  halves  of  a  candied  cherry  or  a  bit  of  bright 
jelly  on  top.  Strawberries  cut  in  quarters,  or  red  raspberries, 
may  be  placed  in  layers  with  the  cream  and  a  few  berries  laid 
on  top. 

ir  Cream  of  Bioe  Padding 
3?^  pis.  milk  I  cup  sugar 

yi  pt.  cream  J^  cup  rice 

Mix  all  together  in  pudding  dish,  set  on  top  of  stove  or  in 
oven  and  let  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  often. 
When  boiling,  set  in  oven  and  bake  slowly  until  rice  is  soft  (2 
hrs.  or  longer);  stir  occasionally  to  keep  the  top  stirred  in  and 
to  break  the  rice  so  that  it  will  be  smooth  and  creamy  when 
done.  If  pudding  becomes  too  thick  while  baking,  add  hot  water; 
it  should  be  quite  thin  when  warm  as  it  thickens  in  cooling. 
Brown  the  top  delicately  just  before  removing  from  the  oven. 
Serve  very  cold  the  next  day  after  making.  In  serving  be 
sure  to  dip  from  the  top  to  the  bottom  for  each  plate. 

If  you  are  ufeing  the  ordinary  polished  rice,  boil  it  for  5  m.  in 
a  pint  of  water,  drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water  before  adding  it  to 
the  milk.  When  more  convenient,  cook  the  pudding  in  a  double 
boiler  until  the  rice  is  smooth  and  creamy,   then  turn  into  pud- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITHOUT  EGGS  3O5 

ding  dish  and  brown  in  oven,  stirring  the  top  in  two  or  three  times. 

Bioe  Padding— Baisina 
Add  I  cup  of  raisins  to  preceding  recipe  before  or  during  cook- 
ing.    For  a  delicious   change   the   raisins   may  be  ground  and 
added  when  the  pudding  is  half  done.     English  currants,  fine 
cut  dates,   figs  or  citron  may  be  variously  added.     Servings  of 
pudding  may  be  garnished  with  blanched  almonds. 
Coooanut  Bioe  Pndding 
Add  I  to  15^  cup  cocoanut  to  cream  of  rice  pudding  and  use 
H  cup  sugar  only. 

ITnt  Cream  of  Bioe  Pudding 
3  tablespns.  rice  well  washed  3  tablespus.  almond  or  other  nut 

H  cup  sugar  butter  rubbed  smooth  with 

J^  teaspn.  salt  i  qt.  of  water 

Cook,  stirring  often,  in  oven  or  on  top  of  stove  until  creamy, 
then  brown.     May  flavor  just  before  it  is  done. 

"  Indian  "  Bioe  Padding 
2  tablespns.  rice  K  teaspn.  salt 

H  cup  molasses  2  qts.  milk 

Bake  in  slow  oven  4  or  5  hours,  stirring. 

ir  Emeline'8  Indian  Padding 
H  cup  Rhode  Island  meal  yi-H  cup  sugar 

(fi  granular)  i/4  teaspn.  salt 

/^  cup  molasses  2  qts.  skimmed  milk 

The  older  the  milk  without  being  sour,  the  better. 

Mix  salt,  sugar,  molasses  and  flour  together  in  pudding  dish 
and  pour  over  them  stirring  3  pts,  of  the  milk  boiling.  Set  dish  in 
oven,  pour  the  remaining  pint  of  milk,  cold,  into  the  pudding 
without  stirring;  cover  and  bake  very  slowly  for  3  or  4  hrs. 
Cool  pudding  before  dipping  into  it,  to  allow  the  jelly  to  set. 
Serve  another  day  warm  or  cold,  plain,  or  with  cream  whipped 
or  plain. 

The  pudding  may  be  l>aked  for  an  hour  before  the  cold  milk  is 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


306  THE   LAUREL 

poured  in.     Add  i  qt.  rich  sweet  apples,   in  eighths,  or  stoned 
dates  with  or  without  grated  cocoanut,  sometimes. 

Hre.  Hinsdale's  Indian  Padding 
3  qts.  water  i  J4  cup  raisins 

3)^-4.  cups  granular  meal  salt 

Stir  meal  gradually,  with  wire  batter  whip,  into  rapidly  boil- 
ing, salted  water,  add  the  raisins,  turn  into  well  oiled  mold, 
cover  and  steam  3-5  hrs;  serve  hot  with  maple  syrup,  cream  and 
sugar,  or  hard  sauce.      In  earlydays  it  was  served  with  molasses. 

The  pudding  may  be  sweetened  and  served  with  cream  only. 
It  should  be  stiff  enough  to  slice  well. 

Chopped  or  broken  nuts  may  be  added  for  variety. 

Qraham  Porridge  Pudding 
Take  '/i  or  5-4  milk  and   J^   or   J^   water,  add  sugar  and  salt, 
stir  in  gradually  graham  flour  till  thick,  cook  in  double  boiler  i 
hr,  or  longer;  serve  warm  with  cream,  nut  or  dairy,  or  mold  and 
serve  cold  with  sweet    fruit    sauce   or   cream.     Omit  sugar  and 
serve  with  honey,  maple  syrup  or  molasses  or  with  molasses  sauce. 
Blano  Uange 
I  qt.  milk  t  tablespn.  sugar 

/'Jcup  corn  starch  wet  with  salt 

another  cup  of  milk 

Heat  milk  to  boiling,  add  corn  starch,  boil  half  a  minute, 
mold,  serve  with  cold  cream  sauce,  sub-acid  fruit  sauce,  with 
custard  or  with  nut  or  dairy  cream,  Fine  cut  dates  may  be 
added  to  blanc  mange  sometimes. 

Bioe  Flour  Blono  Uange 
I  qt.  milk  g%  level  teaspns.  rice  flour 

)'i  Clip  sujjar  ,''3  teaspn.  salt 

Blend  flour  with  part  of  the  milk,  heat  remainder  of  milk  with 
sugar  and  salt  to  boiling,  stir  in  flour,  beat  smooth,  cook  15  m., 
pour  into  molds  which  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.  Serve 
with  sauces  for  blanc  mange. 


PUDDINGS  WITHOUT  EGGS  307 

if  Caramel  Jelly 
Tie  2  to  4  tablespns.  cereal  coffee  in  double  cheese  cloth  and 
steep  in  i  qt.  of  milk  in  double  boiler  for  20  m ;  squeeze  the  milk 
all  out  of  the  cloth,  add  enough  more  milk  to  make  a  full  quart 
and  proceed  as  in  blanc  mange.  Serve  with  custard  sauce  or 
sometimes  with  plain  or  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Pudding  may  be  flavored  and  the  cream  plain. 

'4  cup  of  strong  cereal  coffee  may  be  used  with  X  qt.  of  milk 
.when  more  convenient. 

Baepberr;  Jelly 

1  qt.  milk  /4  to  i  cup  sugar 

I  scant  cup  corn  starch  i  pt.  raspberries 

Blend  corn  starch  with  part  of  the  milk  and  stir  into  remainder 

of  milk  when  boiling;  add  sugar   and   mashed   berries,  turn  into 

mold,  cool.      Unmold  on    to   dessert   plate   and    surround  with 

whipped  cream  roses,  or  with  spoonfuls  of  cream  with  a  whole 

berry  here  and  there. 

ir  Farina  Banana  Cream 
3  cups  milk  3-4  tablespns.  sugar 

I  cup  cream  3  medium  sized,  very  ripe  ba- 

3^-4/^  level  tablespns.  farina  nanas 

Heat  milk  and  cream  with  sugar  in  double  boiler,  stir  in  dry 
farina,  cook  i  hr.  Spread  in  layers  with  sliced  bananas.  Serve 
cold  in  cups  or  glasses  the  day  it  is  made.  The  farina  will  be 
very  thin  when  done,  but  will  thicken  to  the  consistency  of 
cream  by  cooling,  and  if  it  is  thicker  than  that  it  is  not  good. 

Omit  bananas,  flavor  cream  with  vanilla  and  serve  cold  in 
glasses  for  Farina  Cream. 

Almond  "Ciutard" 

Rub  2  tablespns.  almond  butler  smooth  with  1  cup  of  water; 

add  1  or  2  tablespns.  sugar  and  %  level  teaspn.  salt;  boil  up  well; 

serTe  warm  or  cold  is  cups  or  glasses  with  cake,  wafers  or  buns. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  with  vanilla  and  almond  if  desired. 

ir  Imperial  Baspberry  Cream 

I  pt.  cream  i  cup  sugar  H  pt.  raspberry  juice 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


308  THE    LAUREL 

Dissolve  sugar  in  juice,  add  to  boiling  cream,  boil,  stirring, 
until  of  the  consistency  of  thin  cream.  It  will  be  much  thicker 
when  cold.  Serve  in  glasses  with  cookies,  sticks  or  wafers. 
May  be  used  as  a  sauce  for  cottage  or  other  puddings;  especially 
suitable  for  Irish  moss  or  gelatine  blanc  mange.  Grape  and 
other  fruit  juices  may  be  used. 

Steamed  Apples— Cream 
While  hot,  sprinkle  nicely  steamed  apples  with  sugar  in  indi- 
vidual dishes.     Serve  cold   with   suitable    nut  or  whipped  dairy 

Clabber— for  summer  only 
Put  fresh  warm  milk  into  an  individual  bowl  for  each  member 
of  the  family.     When  it  has  turned  and  become  a  smooth,  blanc 
mange-like  cake,  serve  in  the  bowls  with  sugar  sprinkled  over, 
for  dessert  or  supper. 

Qreen  Com  Podding 
3  cups  corn  (12  ears)  %  to  %  cup  sugar 

1  pt.  milk  yi  level  teaspn.  salt 

Grate  mature  corn;  mix  with  milk  and  sugar  in  pudding  dish; 
bake  in  moderate  oven  \-i%  hr.  Serve  plain  or  with  cream  or 
butter. 

Iristi  or  Sea  Moas  Blauo  Hauge 

Sea  or  Irish  moss  is  so  desirable  as  a  food  that  it  should  be 
used  more  generally.  It  can  be  bought  at  groceries  or  drug 
stores  at  from  25  cts.  per  lb.  upward,  according  to  where  it  is 
bought.     Do  not  confound  it  with  Iceland  moss. 

It  is  useless  to  try  to  follow  any  exact  rule  either  by  weight 
or  measure  for  the  propoi;fion  of  moss  to  the  milk,  yet  the  prep- 
aration is  simple.  Take  up  a  little  in  the  fingers,  what  might 
be  called  a  small  handful,  wash  it  in  several  cold  waters  until  all 
the  sand  is  removed.  Drop  it  into  the  milk  cold  or  warm.  (It 
is  very  convenient  to  have  it  tied  loose  in  2  or  3  thicknesses  of 
netting,  cheese  cloth  is  too  fine.)  Cook  in  the  inner  cup  of  a 
double  boiler,  or  in  a  pail  set  in   hot  water,    lifting  the  netting 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITH  EGGS  3O9 

up  and  down  occasionally,  until  the  milk  is  of  a  creamy  consist- 
ency; then  remove  moss  if  it  is  in  the  netting,  if  not,  strain 
through  a  fine  wire  or  hair  strainer.  Sweeten,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  rose,  or  leave  plain.  (Some  prefer  the  seaweed  fla- 
vor.) Turn  into  a  large  pudding  mold  or  individual  cups  or  molds 
which  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.  It  will  harden  very 
quickly  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  fruit  juice,  stewed  fruit 
or  cream.     Pineapple  sauce  is  very  suitable. 

DESSERTS  AND  PUDDINQS  WITH  EOOB 

"Far  too  much  sugar  is  used  in  food.  Cakes,  sweet  puddings, 
pastries,  jellies,  jams  areactivecausesof  indigestion.  Especially 
harmful  are  the  custards  and  puddings  in  which  milk,  eggs  and 
sugar  are  the  chief  ingredients. 

"The  free  use  of  milk  and  sugar  taken  together  should  be 
avoided." 

Desserts  made  of  tart  fruits  and  bread  should  be  avoided  by 
those  with  a  tendency  to  acid  stomach. 

Elieabeth'8  Indiao  Pudding— Superior 
2  qts.  milk  I  egg 

1  cup  corn  meal  }i  cup  molasses 

2  tablespns.  flour  J^  cup  sugar 
K'J^  cup  butter                                                   }i  teaspn.  salt 

Mix  meal  and  flour,  pour  I  qt.  boiling  milk  over,  stirring;  boil 
well,  add  butter;  combine  egg,  molasses,  sugar,  salt  and  the 
remaining  quart  of  milk  and  add  to  the  corn  meal  mixture;  bake 
for  2  hrs.,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  warm  or  cold,  plain  or 
with  cream,  nut  or  dairy. 

it  Com  Cake  Pudding 
Use  2  eggs  and  3  tablespns.  sugar  to  each  quart  rich  milk  and 
turn  over  crumbs,  dice  or  small  pieces  of  corn  cake;  sprinkle  top 
with  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  eggs  are  set.     May 
use  currants  and  raisins. 

if  Brown  Bread  Padding 
I  cup  brown  bread  crumbs  3  tablespns.  sugar 

I  pt.  milk  a  or  3  eggs  salt 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


3IO  THE    LAUREL 

Add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  last;  bake  in  pan  of  hot  water 
or  in  slow  oven,  covered  part  of  the  time;  serve  warm  with  hard 
sauce  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Tiotorla  Dessert—Impromptu 

1  cup  milk  I  tablespn.  sugar 

2  or  3  eggs  salt 

slices  of  stale  bread 

Cut  slices  of  bread  into  desired  shape  and  size;  soak  in  mix- 
ture of  milk,  eggs  and  sugar  until  moistened,  not  soft;  lay  in 
hot  buttered  pan  and  brown  delicately  in  quick  oven;  serve  at 
once  with  fresh  fruit,  jelly,  marmalade  or  suitable  fruit  or  pud- 
ding sauce. 

2  whites  of  the  3  eggs  may  be  left  out  and  beaten  stiff  with 
sugar  and  some  fruit  marmalade  or  jelly  and  used  as  a  sauce. 
Drained  canned  peaches  or  apricots,  rubbed  through  a  colander 
and  beaten  well  make  a  nice  sauce,  especially  with  a  little 
whipped  cream.      Even  nicely  stewed  apples  are  good. 

J^  Steamed  Crumb  Pudding 

I  pt,  hot  milk  J^-K  cup  sugar 

i-i/:i  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

Ji  teaspn.  vanilla 
If  bread  was  very  light,  the  larger  quantity  of  crumbs  will  be 
required.  Pour  milk  over  crumbs,  add  sugar,  cool;  add  beaten 
ej^s  and  vanilla.  Steam  in  large  or  small  molds  1-1 J^  hr.  Un- 
mold,  serve  with  orange,  hard,  jelly,  foamy,  plain  or  any  desired 
sauce.  Vanilla  may  be  omitted.  Fine  cut  raisins  or  citron, 
dried  blueberries,  English  currants  or  any  desired  fruit  (about  }4 
cup)  may  be  added  to  the  pudding  sometimes;  also  fresh  red  or 
black  raspberries,  blueberries  or  blackberries. 

Steamed  Cabinet  Padding 

3  eggs  I  cup  fruit  (currants,  raisins, 
3  tablespns.  sugar                    citron), chopped  liue 

3  cups  milk  3  pts.  stale  bread  or  cake  crumbs 


.b,Coot^lc 


PUDDINGS   WITH   EGGS  3 II 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  salt,  milk,  pour  over  crumbs,  let  stand 
I  hr.  Use  i  tablespn.  of  softened  butter  in  oiling  a  three-pint 
mold;  sprinkle  mold  with  fruit,  pour  in  batter,  steam  in  vessel 
of  hot  water  in  oven  for  2  hrs.     Serve  with  creamy  sauce. 

Plain  BoUed  or  Baked  Custard 

I  qt.  milk  3-4  eggs  3-4  tablespn s.  sugar 

Beat  eggs  with  sugar  just  enough  to  blend  whites  and  yolks, 
add  milk,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  cook,  stirring  over  hot 
water  until  the  custard  thinly  coats  the  spoon;  remove  quickly 
from  fire,  add  flavoringif  desired  and  strain  into  pitcher  or  glass 
sauce  dish;  serve  cold. 

Or,  pour  hot  milk  slowly  stirring,  over  beaten  eggs  and  sugar, 
strain  and  pour  into  buttered  custard  cups,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  bake  slowly  until  creamy  all  through,  or  till  a  silver  knife 
will  come  out  clean  when  run  into  custard.  Do  not  allow  the 
water  around  the  cups  to  boil  at  any  time.  Cool  as  rapidly  as 
possible.  The  straining  of  custards  has  much  to  do  with  their 
smoothness  and  lightness.  If  the  boiled  custard  should  curdle 
from  too  long  cooking,  beating  with  the  dish  in  cold  water  may 
restore  the  smoothness,  but  not  the  flavor. 

In  making  a  large  quantity  of  custard,  set  as  soon  as  creamy 
into  cold  water  and  stir  until  below  the  coagulating  point  or  the 
custard  will  become  curdled  by  its  own  heat. 

Castard  of  Tolks  of  Egge 

I  pt.  milk  atablespns.  sugar  yolks  of  3  eggs 

Follow  directions    for    boiled   custard.     The  custard  may  be 

served  with  an  uncooked  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 

sprinkled  with  chopped  candied  cherries  or  dotted  with  jelly. 

*  "White  Custard 

The  white  of  i  egg  with  %  to  1  tablespn.  of  sugar  and  a  trifle 

of  salt,  to  every  Yi  or  i  cup  of  milk.     (Good  with  either  quantity 

of  milk.)     Bake  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  very  slow  oven  for  40  m. 

to  I  hour,  according  to  heat  of  oven  and  shape  and  size  of  dish. 


t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


3»2  THE   LAUREL 

Com  starch  Ciutard 
1  qt.  milk  iH  tablespn.  corn  starch 

4  tablespns.  sugar  I  egg 

salt 

Blend  corn  starch  with  alittleof  thecoldmilkand  pour  slowly 
into  remainder  of  milk  heated  to  boiling  with  the  sugar;  boil  up 
well,  or  cook  in  double  boiler  lO  m.,  add  a  little  to  the  beaten 
e^,  and  when  smooth,  turn  egg  all  at  once  into  hot  mixture; 
stir  well,  remove  from  fire,  add  salt  and  flavoring  and  strain. 

Goooanat  Banana  Dessert 
Add  grated  cocoanut  to  corn  starch  custard.      Fill  deep  glass 
dish  with  layers  of  custard  and  bananas,  and  sprinkle  cocoanut 
over  the  top.     Serve  cold. 

Lemon  Water  Custard 

4  or  5  tablespns.  lemon  juice  J^  cup  sugar 

with  water  to  make  i  cup  2  whole  eggs  and  i  yolk 

salt 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  pour  hot  lemon  juice  over,  stir- 
ring; cook,  strain,  turn  into  dish  or  glasses.  Just  before  serving 
drop  on  sweetened  beaten  white  of  egg  and  dot  with  squares  or 
diamonds  of  jelly. 

Coffee  Custard 
I  cup  cereal  coffee  a  eggs 

I  level  tablespn.  sugar  J^  teaspn.  vanilla 

Steep  2  tablespns.  cocoanut  in  coffee  and  strain  out  if  con- 
venient.     Boil  or  bake.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

ii  Floating  Island 
1  qt.  milk  4  or  5  tablespns.  sugar 

3  eggs  flavoring 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  with  half  the  sugar,  flavor,  drop  by 
spoonsfuls  on  to  hot  (not  boiling)  milk;  when  pufled  a  little, 
turn  with  silver  fork  remove  with  skimmer  or  wire  spoon  when 
well  heated  through.  Turn  milk  into  double  boiler,  add  yolks 
and  sugar,  cook,  strain,  cool.     When  cold,  flavor  and  turn  into 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITH  EGGS  3 1 3 

large  dish  or  several  glasses;  lay  puffs  on  top  and  dot  with  jelly 
or  some  confection,  or  sprinkle  with  chopped  candied  cherries. 
A  few  fresh  rose  leaves  scattered  over  are  not  unsuitable. 

A  Floating  Island  No.  2 
1  pt.  milk  X  cup  sugar 

3  eggs  %  glass  jam  or  jelly 

Make  boiled  custard  of  yolks,  sugar  and  milk;  when  cold, 
flavor  or  not  and  turn  into  glass  dish.  Beat  whites  of  e^s  to 
stiff  froth  and  beat  in  any  desired  jam  or  jelly.  Beat  until  ver>' 
firm,  drop  on  to  custard.     Serve  with  cake  or  wafers. 

Raspberry  jelly  or  jam  with  i  tablespn.  currant  jelly  makes  a 
nice  combination  for  flavor.  The  dish  may  be  lined  with  lady 
fingers  or  slices  of  sponge  cake  before  custard  is  poured  in. 
Water  may  be  used  instead  of  milk  for  the  custard. 

r~~-CiiBtard  Apple  Podding—Oood  Sabbath  Dessert  ' 
Cook  without  paring  3  medium  sized  apples  in  as  little  water 
as  possible;  press  through  sieve,  add  2  tablespns.  butter,  %-}i 
cup  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  %  cup  sugar,  with 
I  pi.  of  milk  and  j4  teaspn.  of  vanilla  or  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
extract ;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  creamy,  cover  with  meringue 
of  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  I  tablespn.  of  sugar;  dust  with  pow- 
dered or  granulated  sugar  and  brown  delicately.     Serve  cold. 

Oriuige  Pudding 
I  qt.  milk  2  or  3  eggs 

I  cup  sugar  4.  large  oranges 

4  level  tablespns.  corn  starch  salt 

I  tablespn.  powdered  sugar 

Heat  %  of  milk  with  %  of  sugar  to  boiling  and  stir  in  slowly 
corn  starch  which  has  been  blended  with  the  remaining  cup  of 
milk,  boil  up  well  and  cook  in  double  boiler  for  10  m.,  then  add 
yolks  of  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  with  %  the  cup  of  sugar; 
when  well  heated  through,  remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Grate 
rind  from  one  orange  and  mix  with  a  little  of  the  remaining  sugar; 
prepare  orange  pulp  according   to   directions   on  p.  42,  and  put 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


314  THE    LAUREL 

into  glass  dish  or  individual  glasses  and  sprinkle  with  remaining 
sugar;  when  custard,  is  cold  turn  it  over  the  oranges,  and  just  the 
last  thing  before  serving  sprinkle  the  peel  over  the  custard  and 
pile  on  it  in  spoonfuls  (or  put  on  with  pastry  tube)  the  whites  of 
the  e^s  beaten  stiff  with  a  speck  of  salt  and  the  powdered  sugar; 
Serve  at  once. 

Sprinkle  meringue  with  cocoanut  sometimes,  or  decorate  with 
leaves  of  angelica  or  diamonds  of  citron.  The  custard  may  be 
delicately  flavored  with  vanilla.     Other  fruits  may  be  used. 

Banana  Pudding 
Same  as  orange  pudding,   using  3  tablespns.  cornstarch  only. 
Pour  unflavored  custard  over  sliced  bananas  warm,   so  that  the 
custard  will  be  flavored  with  the  banana. 

Hattie's  Prune  Dessert 
Stew  1  lb.  nice  large  California  prunes  in  as  little  water  as 
possible;  drain,  remove  the  stones  and  chop  the  prunes,  not  too 
fine.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  salt 
and  %  cup  of  sugar.  (Be  sure  to  use  the  sugar  in  the  eggs 
instead  of  in  the  prunes.)  Chop  prunes  in  lightly,  bake  in  pud- 
ding dish  or  brick  shaped  granite  pan  in  slow  oven  until  egg  is 
set,  about  20  m.  Serve  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 
Almond  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  is  nice. 

Prune  Souffld 

Stew  28   prunes   in   as   little  water   as   possible;   drain,    rub 

through  colander.     Add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  stiffly-beaten  with 

4  to  6  tablespns.  sugar,  set  in   pan   of   water,   bake  slowly  until 

set.     Serve  with  egg  cream  or  custard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Whips 

Dried  Apple— 2  cups  sifted,   stewed,  dried  apples  (stewed  in 

small    quantity   of   water),    %-i   cup  sugar,    i   tablespn.  lemon 

juice  if   I   cup  of  sugar  is  used,  whites  of  2-4  eggs.     Beat  all 

together  until  light  and   spongy,    heap   in   glass   dish.     Serve 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS   WITH   EGGS  315 

cold  with  or  without  custard  sauce  or  cream.      Dried  peaches, 
apricots  and  prunes  may  be  used  the  same. 

Use  only  2  tablespns.  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  prunes. 
BaDana — White  of  i  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  i  teaspn.  lemon  juice, 
I  cup  banana  pulp.     Nice  on  cake. 

Cranberry — J^  cup  thick,  sweetened,  cooked  pulp  to  white  of 
I  egg. 

Whips  must  be  beaten  until  they  hold  their  shape.  They  are 
nice  served  on  bread  puddings,  custards  and  other  desserts, 
instead  of  a  meringue  or  a  sauce. 

The  rule  for  fruit  whips  is,  i  cup  of  fresh  or  stewed  fruit  pulp 
to  the  white  of  each  e^,  sugar  to  suit  the  fruit,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice  with  sweet  fruits;  but  the  proportion  of  fruit  often 
needs  to  be  varied. 

Fresh  pears  and  peaches  may  be  used  by  rubbing  through  the 
colander  or  mashing  well. 

it  Jelly  Whips,  or  Mary's  Desserts 
Quince — 1  glass  of  quince  jelly,  whites  of  3  eggs;  beat  jelly  a 
little,  and  whites  very  stiff  and  dry;  combine  the  two  and  beat 
together  until  stiff.  Make  custard  of  i  pt.  of  milk,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  2  tablespns.  sugar;  when  cold  put  into  glasses  with  whip 
on  top.  Sterilized  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  custard,  or 
whip  may  be  put  into  glass  first  and  whipped  cream  piled  on  top 
of  that.  Serve  with  crackers  or  cake. 
Other  jellies  may  be  used  the  same. 

Brother  Fulton's  Strawberry  Fluff 
whites  2  eggs  H  cup  sugar  i  pt.  strawberries 

Mash  berries  with  sugar  and  add  to  unbeaten  whites  in  deep 
cake  bowl;  beat  with  egg  or  batter  whip  until  the  mixture  will 
stand  alone,  very  light  and  fluffy.  Serve  in  glasses  with  cake  or 
wafers,  or  as  meringue,  garnish,  or  sauce  for  other  desserts. 
Strawberry  fluff  makes  a  nice  garnish  for  strawberry  shortcake. 
Raspberries  and  other  fruits  may  be  used. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


3l6  THE   LAUREL 

Strawberriea  and  Cream  Wbip 

t  pt.  ice  cold  cream  j4  cup  sugar 

}i  cup  mashed  fresh  strawberries 

Add  suf!;ar  and  berries  to  cream,  whip  as  for  whipped  cream 
and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

Apple  Cream 
Pare,  quarter,  core  and  steam  1 2  tart  apples,  rub  through 
colander,  cool,  add  i  cup  sugar  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  beat  until 
white  and  foamy;  heap  in  cold  glass  dish.  Garnish  with  chopped 
candied  cherries,  bits  of  jelly  or  with  citron  or  angelica.  Serve 
very  cold. 

Bose  Apple  Cream 
Steam  red  skinned   apples   without    paring    for  above  recipe. 
Pile  on  glass  dessert    plate   and  surround  with  whipped  cream 
roses  flavored  delicately  with  extract  of  rose- 
Lemon  Snow  Pudding 
2-2^  tablespns.  lemon  juice  iK  tablespn.  corn  starch 

t  cup  water  >i  cup  sugar 

white  of  I  egg 

Heat  sugar  and  water  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  corn  starch  blended 
with  water,  boil  up,  add  lemonjuice  and  pour  gradually,  beating, 
over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  e^s.  Beat  well  and  pour  into 
molds  or  cups,  cool.     Serve  with  custard  or  red  sauce  or  cream. 

Pudding  may  be  garnished  with  halves  of  candied  cherries. 
Birds'  Nest  Pudding 

Pare  and  core  6  or  8  tart  apples.  Steam  until  nearly  tender. 
Set  in  oiled  pudding  dish  and  cover  with  the  following 

Cri/st — I  pt.  milk  4.  tablespns.  flour 

2  tablespns.  butter  or  oil  4.  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  flour,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  cook  5  m; 
remove  from  fire  and  add  yolks  of  e^s.  When  cold,  chop  in 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  e^s,  turn  over  apples  and  bake 
in  a  slow  or  moderate  oven  about  j4  hour  or  until  done.  The 
success  of  the  pudding  depends  upon  the  slow  baking.     Serve  at 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS   WITH   EGGS  317 

once  with  hard,  creamy  or  any  suitable  sauce,  or  with  sweetened 
sterilized  cream.  Do  not  sweeten  the  apples  or  batter.  With 
some  flours  and  some  measurements,  }4-'i  tablespn.  more  of  flour 
will  be  required. 

Sponge  Apple  Padding 
Fill  pudding  dish  half  full  of  quartered  sour  apples  that  have 
been  steamed  until  tender.  Fill  dish  with  a  sponge  cake  batter 
and  bake  until  well  done.  Serve  with  custard,  almond,  cream  or 
other  sauce.  May  use  peaches  sprinkled  with  sugar  instead  of 
apples,  with  thin  meringue  on  cake  and  no  sauce. 

Lemon  8oaftl6  Padding— Uneqaaled 
H  cup  butter  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

!4  cup  flour  3  eggs 

i^  cup  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

grated  rind  of  i  lemon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  flour  and  pour  the  boiling  milk  over;  cook 
until  thick;  add  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
with  the  sugar;  cool  a  little,  chop  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  salt;  bake  in  buttered  mold  in  pan  of  water  in 
moderate  oven  until  egg  is  set,  about  30  m.  Serve  with  foamy 
or  fruit  Sabayon  sauce,  fruit  syrup  or  egg  cream  sauce. — Boston 
Cooking  School  Magazine. 

Cream  Sponge  Pudding 
4.-5  tablespns.  corn  starch  2  eggs 

(according  to  quality)  K  cup  sugar  or  none 

I  qt.  milk  salt 

Thicken  boiling  milk  and  sugar  (if  used)  with  corn  starch  stirred 
smooth  with  some  of  the  cold  milk,  boil  3-5  m;  add  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  beat  well  and  pour  over  stiffly-beaten  whites,  turn 
into  wet  molds  or  cups.  Serve  with  fruit  or  other  sauce  if  not 
sweetened,  or  if  sweet  with  cream. 

Fruit  Juice  Hold 
I  cup  rich  fruit  juice  salt 

I  cup  water  4.  level  tablespns.  corn  starch 

sugar  whites  of  2-3  eggs 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


5l8  THE   LAUREL 

Heat  juice,  sugar,  salt  and  water  to  boiling;  stir  in  corn  starch 
blended  with  cold  water;  boil  well,  pour  over  stiff  whites  of  eggs, 
beating;  mold.  Serve  with  custard  or  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  strawberry,  orange,  lemon  or  vanilla  or  not  flavored  at  all, 
as  suitable. 

Snow  Blano  Hange—no  HUk 
1  pt.  boiling  water  whites  3  or  4  eggs 

6  level  tablespns.  corn  starch      }i-H  teaspn.  vanilla  with 
K  cup  cold  water  or  without  a  few  drops  alm- 

}i  cup  sugar  ond  extract 

Thicken  boiUng  water  and  sugar  with  corn  starch  blended  with 
cold  water;  boil  well,  pour  over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beating,  add  flavoring  and  turn  into  wet  mold.  Serve  with 
custard  of  yolks  of  eggs  flavored  with  vanilla  or  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  extract. 

Blanc  Mange  may  be  garnished  with  small  dice  or  diamonds 
of  citron. 

Flour  Blano  Mange 

1  pt.  milk  I  egg 

2  tablespns.  flour  salt 

Stir  flour  blended  with  part  of  the  milk  into  remainder  of  milk 
when  boiling;  cook  10-20  m.  in  double  boiler;  add  egg  slightly 
beaten,  heat  a  moment  and  turn  into  cups  dipped  in  cold  water; 
serve  cold  with  any  desired  dressing.  In  making  a  larger  quantity, 
use  a  slightly  larger  proportion  of  flour. 

Bioe  Floor  Pudding 

4.  tablespns.  rice  flour  3  eggs 

1  cup  cold  milk  H-i  cup  sugar 

t  qt.  trailing  milk  flavoring 

I  tablespn.  butter  salt 

Add  sugar  to  boiling  milk  and  stir  in  the  flour  blended  with 
the  cold  milk;  boil  ;  m;  add  butter,  beaten  eggs  and  salt;  bake 
20  m.  or  until  firm.  Serve  with  strawberry  or  blueberry  sauce 
or  with  cream.     Butter  may  be  omitted. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITH  EGGS  3I9 

Oom  Starch  Meringae 

1  qt.  milk  6  tablespns.  sugar 

2  tablespns.  corn  starch  3  eggs 

flavoring 
Heat  milk  and  4  tablespns.  of  sugar  to  boiling;  stir  in  corn 
starch  blended  with  cold  milk;  boil;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  flavor, 
turn  into  serving  dish;  cover  at  once  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
with  2  tablespns.  of  sugar;  tint  delicately  on  top  grate  of  oven. 
Serve  cold.  The  meringue  may  be  sprinkled  with  grated  cocoa- 
nut  while  warm.  May  use  i  tablespn.  more  of  corn  starch  and 
lay  drained  canned  peaches  on  top  of  pudding  before  putting  on 
meringue.     Other  fruits,  jellies  or  jams  maybe  used. 

Sea  Foam —Sea  Mobs 
Pour  hot  Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange,  p.  308,  over  stiffly-beaten 
whites  of  e^s.      Flavor  with   almond,    orange    flower   water  or 
other  flavoring.      Mold.     Serve  with  anything  suitable  for  Irish 
Moss  Blanc  Mange. 

Sva's  Tapiooa  Cream—none  better 
4  tablespns.  minute,  pearl  or  flake  tapioca  i  cup  sugar 

(3  only  of  cassava  or  manioca)  3  eggs 

I  scant  cup  of  warm  water  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

I  qt.  milk  salt 

Soak  tapioca  in  water  (pearl  or  flake  2  hrs. ,  minute  or  manioca 
10  m.)  and  cook  with  milk  and  sugar  in  double  boiler  until  trans- 
parent; add  beaten  yolks,  stir  for  a  moment,  remove  from  fire, 
add  vanilla  and  pour  into  serving  dish,  cover  with  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  with  i-i>^  tablespn.  sugar.  Tint  on  top  grate  of 
oven.     Serve  cold. 

Tapiooa  Oream~in  glasses 
2  tablespns.  tapioca  3  eggs 

scant  cup  water  ^-i  cup  sugar 

I  qt.  milk  flavoring 

salt 

Soak  tapioca  in  water,  cook  in  the  milk  with  half  the  sugar 
in  double  boiler  until  clear;  add  beaten  yolks  of  e^s,  remove 


o.CoQt^lc 


3*9  THE   LAUREL 

from  fire  and  while  hot  or  when  nearly  cold  pour  over  whites 
which  have  been  beaten  with  the  remaining  sugar;  flavor  and 
serve  in  glasses. 

Beaten  whites  may  be  chopped  into  cold  custard  just  before 
serving,  or,  they  may  be  served  on  top  of  it. 

Water  Taplooa  Padding—ExoeUent 
6  tablespns.  tapioca  4  eggs 

5  cups  water  i  cup  sugar 

flavoring 

Soak  tapioca  in  i  cup  of  the  water,  cook  in  remainder  with 
sugar  until  transparent,  add  beaten  yolks  (it  is  better  to  reserve 
a  spoonful  of  sugar  to  beat  with  the  yolks),  flavorand  pour  into 
pudding  dish.  Meringue  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  i-2 
tablespns.  of  sugar,  flavored  or  not.  Lemon  juice  or  other 
fruit  juices  may  replace  some  of  the  water  for  variety.  Stewed 
or  steamed  raisins  may  besprinkled  over  the  pudding  before  the 
meringue  is  put  on,  but  the  plain  pudding  is  good  enough. 

Molded  Tapioca  Pudding—Fine 

/^  cup  minute  tapioca  /4  cup  sugar 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

I — lyi  cup  water  a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract 

H  teaspn.  vanilla 

Pour  a  good  quantity  of  warm  water  over  tapioca,  soak  lo  m., 
drain  and  put  to  cooking  with  milk,  water  and  sugar;  cook  until 
perfectly  transparent,  stir  in  beaten  yolks  of  e^s,  remove  from 
fire,  add  flavoring,  chop  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  i 
tablespn.  of  sugar;  turn  into  wet  mold  or  cups.  Serve  plain, 
garnished  with  nuts  or  jelly,  or  with  nut  or  dairy  cream,  custard, 
or  some  fruit  whip  or  egg  cream. 

ir  Cottage  Pudding—Eggs 
Take  i  egg  and  }i  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  miik  in  universal 
crust.     Bake  in  any  desired  shape  and  serve  with  lemon  or  other 
sauce. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITH  EGGS  32I 

The  sugar  may  be  omitted  for  some  sauces.  A  different  pud- 
ding may  be  made  by  steaming  instead  of  baking. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding 

To  ingredients  for  universal  crust  add  i  or  2  tablespns.  of 
sugar  (white  or  brown)  and  i  or  2  eggs  for  each  cup  of  liquid — 
milk  or  water,  and  flour  for  a  thick  batter.  When  light,  mix  in 
carefully  floured  fresh  blueberries,  blackberries,  raspberries,  cran- 
berries, cherries  or  sliced  peaches;  dried  blueberries,  cherries, 
raisins  or  currants;  or  drained  canned  cherries.  Steam  in  well 
oiled  molds  or  cups — cups  %  hour,  mold  i  hour.  Serve  with 
sauce  suitable  for  the  fruit. 

The  batter  for  Washington  cake  may  be  used  sometimes. 

ir  Quaker  Pudding 
6  eggs  g  or  10  tablespDS.  pastry  flour  i  qt.  milk 

Beat  all  together.     Bakein  moderateoven.     Servewith  sauce. 

Batter  Padding 
4  eggs  salt 

i^cup  sifted  flour  i  pt.  milk 

Beat  eggs  for  3  m ;  add  the  milk  and  pour  on  to  flour  gradually, 
beating.  Turn  into  well  oiled  mold  with  cover  and  steam  or 
boil  1%  hr.     Serve  with  suitable  sauce. 

it  Oocoanat  Bioe  Pudding 
3  pts.  milk  4  eggs 

yi  cup  rice  i  J^  cup  grated  cocoanut 

I  cup  sugar  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

salt 

Cook  rice  in  milk  until  very  soft,  cool;  beat  2  whole  eggs  and 
the  yolks  of  the  other  2  with  the  sugar,  cocoanut  and  salt  and 
add  with  the  vanilla  to  the  rice.  Turn  into  pudding  dish  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  until  eggs  are  set.  Cover  with  a  meringue 
of  the  remaining  whites  of  eggs  and  r  or  2  tablespns.  of  sugar. 
Tint  delicately  in  oven.     Serve  warm  or  cold. 

Grind  desiccated  cocoanut  when  using  that  instead  of  fresh. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


322  THE   LAUREL 

1-1%  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice   may  be   used.     Vanilla  maybe 
omitted. 

Bice  Cnstard  Padding 
Same  as  above  with   cocoanut  omitted,     i    cup  of  raisins, 
whole  or  chopped,  may  be  cooked  with  the  rice  sometimes. 
Rioe  Fudding—Lemon  Uerlngue 
I  cup  boiled  rice  3  eggs 

1  good  pt.  of  milk  I  cup  sugar 

2 — 2j4  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

Pour  hot  milk  over  rice  in  pudding  dish.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs 
with  }^  of  the  sugar  flavored  with  oil  of  lemon,  as  on  p.  27,  and 
add  to  rice  and  milk.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until  creamy;  beat 
whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  drop  by  sjwonfuls 
on  pudding  and  brown  delicately. 

Sweet  Potato  Mold 

2  lbs.  potatoes  5  eggs 
/4  cup  butter                                         flavoring 

/4  cup  sugar  i  pt.  thin  cream 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes,  add  butter  while  warm,  beat  well; 
beat  eggs  with  sugar  and  add  to  mixture;  then  flavoring.  Vanilla 
or  lemon,  and  cream.  Bake  in  pudding  mold  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  sauce  or  cream.  . 

Dainty  Dessert 

Bake  rose  flavored  sponge  cake  in  flat  pan,  cut  in  squares  and 
serve  with  Imperial  Raspberry  Cream,  p.  307. 
Cottage  Cheese  and  Cake 

Spread  creamy,  unseasoned,  sweetened  cottage  cheese  over 
sponge  cake,  cut  into  squares  and  ser\-e  with  whipped  cream. 
Molasses  or  Washington  cake  may  be  used. 

HolMses  Oake  with  Whipped  Cream 
Serve  fresh,  warm,  molasses  cake  with   sweetened  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

molded  Apples 
Grind  (not  too  fine)  tart  apples,  put  at  once  into  boiling  syrup 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PUDDINGS  WITH  EGGS  32} 

of  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  water,  just  enough  to  cook  apples 
and  leave  dry.  Do  not  stir.  When  thick,  turn  into  mold  to 
cool;  unmold  and  serve  with  boiled  custard  or  with  unsweetened 
whipped  cream. 

Apple  Deasert 
Stew  nice,  tart  apples  in  quarters,  in  just  enough  water  with- 
out sugar  to  cook  them,  or,  steam  them;  serve  cold  with  plain 
sweetened  egg  cream  or  boiled  custard.     Apples  may  be  pared, 
cored  and  steamed. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


FUBDINO  SAUCES 


"The  pudding  is  nice  and  the  sauce  is  nice,  but  the  tart  of 
the  lemon  destroys  the  flavor  of  the  fig,"  was  the  kindly  criti- 
cism which  my  fig  pudding  with  lemon  sauce  received  from  one 
of  the  ladies  of  the  class  in  the  junior  days  of  my  public  work. 

To  combine  desserts  and  sauces  properly  requires  true  artistic 
skill.  As  a  rule,  a  rich  sauce  should  be  served  with  a  plain  pud- 
ding and  a  simpler  or  neutral  sauce  with  a  richer  pudding,  or 
with  one  having  a  characteristic  or  delicate  flavor.  Cream — 
almond,  Brazil  nut,  cocoanut  or  dairy  is  the  only  thing  that  will 
develop  the  flavor  of  some  desserts,  while  some  puddings  are  too 
good  to  be  spoiled  with  any  sauce. 

ir  Creamy  (Apple  Dumpling)  Sauce 
}4  cup  butter  J4  cup  milk 

I  cup  sugar  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  gradually,  stirring;  set  over 
hot  water  and  stir  until  just  smooth,  no  longer.  The  sauce  is 
not  intended  to  be  hot.     Add  vanilla  and  serve  at  once. 

If  the  sauce  should  stand  and  separate,  heat  carefully  again 
before  serving.  Water  may  be  used  in  place  of  milk,  or  lemon 
juice  and  water  in  equal  quantities,  with  lemon  flavor,  or  fruit 
juices  for  cottage  or  plain  steamed  puddings.  Orange  juice  with 
the  flavor  of  the  rind  and  vanilla  makes  a  pleasing  combination. 
The  sauce  is  sometimes  made  with  cream  and  sometimes  with 
%  cup  each  of  cream  and  fruit  juice. 

Strawberry  or  Baspberry  Ssuoe 

.-Xdd  I  cup  mashed,  drained,  canned  or  fresh  strawberries  or 
raspberries  to  above  sauce  just  before  serving. 

[324] 


jvGooi^le 


PUDDING   SAUCES  $25 

if  Foamy  Sanoe 
H  cup  butter  3  tablespns.  fruit  juice 

I  cup  sugar  %  cup  boiling  water 

I  teaspn.  vanilla  white  of  i  egg 

Cream  butter  and'sugar,  add  vanilla  and  fruit  juice.  Just  before 
serving,  addgradually  the  boiling  water,  and  pour  over  the  stiffly- 
beaten  white  of  egg;  beat  until  foamy.  Vanilla  may  be  omitted. 
Grape  juice  gives  a  lavender  color. 

Hard  Sanoe 
K  cup  butter  i  cup  sugar,  powdered  or  granulated         flavoring 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  When  sauce  is  smooth 
and  creamy,  add  flavoring.  Pile  on  glass  or  other  pretty  dish, 
set  in  cold  place  to  harden. 

Tariations  of  Hard  Sanoe 

a.  Flavor  with  fine  ground  coriander  seed,  or  very  delicately 
with  powdered  anise  seed. 

6.     Beat  i  tablespn.  cream  with  butter  and  sugar. 

<".     Add  unbeaten  white  of  i  egg  and  beat  ;  m.  more. 

d.     Add  unbeaten  yolk  of  egg  and  beat. 

c.     Add  I  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  separately. 

/.  Add  gradually  i  or  2  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beat  till 
frothy. 

g-.     Add  2  tablespns.  boiling  water. 

A.  Flavor  sugar  with  oil  of  lemon  and  add  i-i  %  tablespn. 
lemon  juice. 

/'.  Add  2  tablespns.  raspberry,  grape  or  any  desired  fruit  juice, 
sauce  or  jelly. 

J.     Add  2  tablespns.  any  fruit  juice  and  %  tablespn.  lemon  juice. 

k.  Flavor  sugar  with  oil  of  orange,  add  2  tablespns.  orange 
juice  and  >^-i  teaspn.  vanilla. 

/.  Add  2  tablespns.  very  strong  cereal  coffee  with  i  teaspn. 
vanilla. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


326  THE   LAUREL 

;n.  Add  I  cup  fine  grated  cocoanut  and  if  desired,  2  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

H.  Add  y^-%  tablespn.  lemon  juice,  and  one  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing well,  10  or  12  lai^e  ripe  strawberries. 

o.  Add  I  egg  and  beat;  beat  in  i  cup  fresh  crushed  ripe  straw- 
berries— Annie's  sauce. 

p.     Use  raspberries  in  place  of  strawberries  in  "o." 

q.     Add  %  cup  cream,  whipped  to  either  'V"  or  "^," 

r.     Add  Bne  ground  dates  or  steamed  figs. 

$.  Use  I  cup  fine  rolled  maple  sugar  instead  of  white,  with 
or  without  beaten  white  of  I  or  2  eggs. 

A  Variegated  Hard  Sauoe 
% — %  cup  butter  white  of  i  egg 

1  cup  sugar  yolk  of  i  »gg 

pink  fruit  color 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  white  of  egg,  divide  into 
3  parts,  flavor  one  part  with  vanilla,  add  yolk  of  e^  to  another 
with  2  or  3  drops  of  lemon  extract  and  put  the  fruit  color  with 
a  drop  or  two  of  rose  into  the  third  part ;  oil  a  brick  shaped  mold 
and  press  the  sauce  into  it  in  layers,  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 
When  firm,  dip  mold  quickly  into  hot  water,  turn  sauce  on  a 
platter  or  flat  dish  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  the  outside 
is  again  hardened.  Cut  in  slices  with  hot  knife  and  lay  a  slice 
on  each  serving  of  pudding. 

Saffron  may  be  used  to  color  yellow,  green  and  other  colors 
may  be  used,  and  strawberry  flavoring  instead  of  rose  sometimes. 
Maple  hard  sauce  might  be  used  for  one  layer. 

Hard  8a«oe  of  Cooking  Oil 

% — %  cup  oil  salt 

I  cup  sugar  i  white  of  egg 

flavoring 

Beat  oil  sugar  and  salt  together  until  light  and  creamy;  add 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


PUDDING   SAUCES  327 

flavoring  and  stiffly-beaten  white  of  egg,  set  in  cool  place  to 
harden. 

Soft  or  melted  cocoanut  butter  may  be  used  the  same. 

Plain  Lemoa  Sanoe 
I  cup  water  2j^-3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

H-i  cup  sugar  flavored  H-i  tablespn.  corn  starch 

with  oil  of  lemon 

Heat  sugar  and  water  to  boiling,  add  corn  starch  blended  with 
cold  water,  boil,  remove  from  fire,  add  lemon  juice  and  a  trifle 
of  salt. 

Ijemon  Saooe— Egg 
I  cup  water  ^-i  tablespn.  corn  starch 

J^-?'3  cup  sugar  flavored  yolk  of  i  egg 

with  oil  of  lemon  i3^-2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

a  trifle  of  sajt 

Boil  sugar  and  water,  thicken  with  corn  starch  blended  with 
water,  boil,  add  yolk,  stir  well  but  do  not  boil;  add  lemon  juice 
and  salt.     One  yolk  is  sufficient  for  twice  the  quantity  of  sauce. 

Starohleaa  Iiemon  Bauoe 

^  cup  sugar  flavored  with  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  white  of  i 

oil  of  lemon  2-3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water 

Beat  sugar,  eggs  and  lemon  juice  together;  add  hot,  not  boil- 
ing, water  gradually,  cook  stirring  in  double  boiler  till  creamy. 
Set  at  once  into  cold  water.     Add  a  trifle  of  salt. 

Cream  Lemon  Sauoe 

Add,  beating  well,  2-4  tablespns.  of  cream — sweet  or  sour,  to 
each  cup  of  liquid  in  any  of  the  recipes  for  lemon  sauce.  When 
sweet  cream  is  used  it  may  be  cooked  with  the  other  ingredients. 

Orange  Sanoe 
The  same  as  lemon  sauce  with  egg,  using  4  tablespns.  orange 
and  }4  tablespn.   lemon  juice  with  a  scant  cup  of  water.     Add 
cream  for  Cream  Orange  Sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


328  THE    LAUREL 

ii  Orange  Syrup  Banoe 
Flavor  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar  with  the  lightly  scored  rind 
of  4  or  5  oranges,  add  the  juice  of  the  oranges  (l  cupful)  and  let 
the  syrup  just  boil  up;  strain  and  add  a.  trifle  of  salt.     For  plum 
pudding  add  also  J4-I  teaspn.  vanilla. 

LemoD  Baisin  Sauce 
I  cup  molasses  i  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins 

I  cup  hot  water  2  tablespns.  butter 

3-2j4  tablespns.  lemon  i  tablespn.  corn  starch 

juice,  grated  rind  if  desired     a  little  milk 

Cook  raisins  20  m;  drain  and  measure  the  water  for  the  sauce. 
Mix  molasses,  water  and  raisins  and  heat  to  boiling;  stir  in  com 
starch  blended  with  milk;  boil  up  well,  add  butter  and  lemon 
juice  and  serve. 

Baialn  Sauce 
/^  cup  sugar  1  pound  seedless  raisins 

Stew  raisins  %  hr.  or  until  tender,  add  sugar  and  cook  to  a 
thin  syrup.     Serve  over  boiled  rice  with  cream.     If  desired,  nut 
or  dairy  cream  or  butter  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. 
Fig  Sauce 

Grind  figs  fine  through  food  cutter,  simmer  in  small  quantity 
of  water  }4  hr.  or  until  soft,  add  a  little  sugar  and  simmer  again, 
leave  just  a  little  liquid.  Nut  or  dairy  cream  or  butter  may  be 
added,  or  the  cereal  or  dessert  may  he  served  with  both  fig  sauce 
and  cream. 

Date  Sauoe 

Stew  dates  10  m.  in  small  quantity  of  water,  rub  through  col- 
ander; serve  rather  thick.  The  date  may  be  flavored  delicately 
with  anise. 

Cream,  with  vanilla,  lemon,  rose  or  almond  flavor,  coriander 
or  anise  may  be  added  to  the  date  pulp. 

Prune  Sauoe 
Rich  prune  juice  is  nice  with  blanc  mange,   cottage  pudding 
and  similar  desserts.     Stewed  prunes  may  be  rubbed  through  the 


oyGoo^^lc 


PUDDING  SAUCES  329 

colander  and  their  juice  added  for  sauce,  with  or  without  orange 
or  vanilla  flavoring.  The  thick  pulp  may  be  added  to  whipped 
cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating,  for  Prune  Whipped  Cream 
Sauce. 

Feaoli  Saaoe 

Mix  %  cup  sugar  and  a  level  tablespn.  corn  starch.  Pour  on 
gradually  l  cup  boiling  water;  boil  5  m.,  stirring;  add  i  tablespn. 
lemon  juice,  l  of  butter  and  a  cup  of  peaches  which  have  been 
pared,  mashed  and  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve;  bring  just  to 
boiling  point  and  serve. 

Nice  with  cottage  pudding  and  popovers.  Canned  or  dried 
peaches  may  be  used  with  the  thin  juice  of  the  peach  instead  of 
water;  then  no  additional  sugar  will  be  required. 

Pineapple  Sanoe 
Beat  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  powdered  sugar  till  creamy;  then 
add  3  tablespns.  cream  and  I  cup  grated  pineapple;  serve  with 
Irish  moss  or  gelatine  blanc  mange. 

CraDbeiT;  Ssaoe 
Boil  %-%  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  water  5  m,  add  i  cup  cran- 
berry juice  and  boil  again.     Thicken  with  1  teaspn.  corn  starch, 
add  a  few  drops  lemon  extract  and  i  teaspn.  melted  butter. 
Strawberry  or  rose  extract  may  be  used  instead  of  lemon. 
Fruit  Sabayon  Saaoe 
H  cup  grape,  black  raspberry  1  teaspn.  lemon  juice 

or  other  fruit  juice  i  ege 

%-%  cup  sugar  yi-%  cup  sugar 

Heat  juice,  the  first  sugar  and  lemon  juice  nearly  to  boiling;  pour, 
stirring,  over  e^(in  double  boiler)  which  has  been  beaten  with 
the  last  sugar.  Cook,  stirring,  a  moment  or  two,  to  just  thicken 
but  not  to  curdle  the  egg;  serve  hot  or  beat  until  cold.  %  cup 
cream — whipped,  may  be  added. 

it  Jelly  Ueringue  Ssuoe 

Beat  white  of  egg  stiff,  then  beat  in  gradually  any  desired  jelly. 

\-i%  tablespn.  powdered  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  egg  before 

U.q,t,zc,b,COOQlC 


330  THE   LAUREL 

the  jelly,  and  2  tablespns.  cream,  plain  or  whipped.     This  sauce 
will  keep  on  ice  for  several  hours. 

Oream,  White,  and  Foamy  White  Sanoea 
Cream — i  J^  cup  water  i  tablespn.  flour 

K  cup  sugar  I  teaspn.  vanilla 

%  cup  cream  salt 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  pour  boiling  water  over  stirring,  boil  up 
well,  add  cream  and  a  trifle  of  salt,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in 
vanilla.'  For  pineapple  s^o  or  tapioca,  flavor  sauce  delicately 
with  rose. 

White — Use  milk  in  place  of  water.  Serve  plain,  or  flavor 
with  orange,  almond  or  lemon,  and  vanilla. 

2  tablespns.  of  butter  or  the  yolk  of  an  e^  may  be  used  with 
a  half  cup  more  of  milk  instead  of  the  %  cup  of  cream. 

Foamy  White — Pour  hot  white  sauce  slowly,  stirring,  over 
whites  of  2  eggs,  stiffly-beaten  with  half  the  sugar. 

Coooannt  Sauce 
Steep,  not  boil,  2  tablespns.  cocoanut  in  i  pt.  of  milk  for  20m., 
strain  and  use  milk  in  white  or  foamy  white  sauce. 

Banana  Cream  Sanoe 
Heat  cream  and  sugar  nearly  to  boiling  in  double  boiler.     Re- 
move from  fire,  add  fine  diced  bananas  and  serve  at  once.     A 
little  vanilla  may  be   added.     Serve  over  popovers,    molded 
farina,  rice  or  plain  taptoca  pudding. 

Cold  Cream  Bauoe 

I  egg  J4  cup  cream 

%  cup  sugar,  granulated  }^  cup  milk 

or  powdered  ^  teaspn.  vanilla 

Put  ingredients  all  together  and  beat  until  thick  as  whipped 


Whipped  Cream  Sanoe 

/^-i  teaspn.  vanilla 
white  of  I  egg 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


PUDDING    SAUCES  33l 

Whip  cream  until  quite  stiff,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  finish 
whipping,  chop  in  stiffly-beaten  white  of  egg.  May  beat  fresh 
fruit  or  fruit  jelly  into  white  before  adding  to  cream. 

Stxswberr;  Oream  Sauce 
/4  pt,  cream  t}4  cup  mashed  strawberries 

^  cup  sugar  white  of  i  egg 

Whip  cream,  add  half  the  sugar,  berries,  and  white  of  egg 
stiffly-beaten  with  remainder  of  sugar. 

Creamy  Sauoe  of  Cooking  Oil 
J4  cup  cooking  oil  /4  cup  sugar  flavored  with 

oil  of  lemon 
%  cup  cream  2-2^  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  oil  and  sugar  to  a  thick  cream;  when  very  light  add 
cream  a  little  at  a  time,  stir  over  boiling  water  if  necessary  to 
make  the  sauce  smooth  and  creamy,  add  lemon  and  serve. 

Lemon  Cream  Sauoe—Sonr  Cream 
I  pt.  sour  cream  yi-i  cup  sugar  flavored 

■2%  tablespns.  lemon  juice  with  oil  of  lemon 

Beat  all  together  until  very  light. 

Sauce  Antlque—Bour  Cream 

1  cup  sour  cream  a  few  drops  almond  extract 
%-l^  cup  sugar  %  teaspn.  vanilla 

Beat  cream  and  sugar  together  until  light  and  add  flavoring. 

Egg  Cream  or  Emei^^noy  Sauce 

2  eggs  yi  teaspn.  vanilla 

J4  cup  sugar  or  a  few  drops  lemon  extract 

1  tablespn.  cream  on  or  2  drops  of  rose 

Beat  whites  stiff  with  a  trifle  of  salt,  add  sugar,  beat  until 
smooth;  chop  in  lightly,  yolks,  cream  and  flavoring.  Do  not  let 
stand.     Nice  for  plum'  and  other  puddings. 

Orange  Sgg  Cream  Sauoe 

2  eggs  4  tablespns.  orange  juice 
>4  cup  sugar  %  cup  cream 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


332  THE   LAUREL 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  orange  flavored  sugar,  or  use 
grated  rind  of  orange,  beat;  then  chop  in  yolks,  orange  juice  and 
whipped  cream. 

Nice  for  fig,  apple  tapioca, and  other  puddings. 

Almond  Cream  Sauce 
2  tablespns.  almond  butter     i  tablespn.  orange  flower  water 
3-4  tablespns.  sugar  or  a  few  drops  of  almond  extract 

iji-iji  cup  boiling  water        with  or  without  '/i  teaspn. 
salt  vanilla 

Blend  butter,  sugar  and  salt;  add  water  slowly,  boil  up  well, 
remove   from    fire   and    add  flavoring.     Serve  hot  or  cold.      I 
teaspn.  flour  and  a  little  more  water  may  be  used, 
Qrape  and  Almond  Sauce 
2  level  tablespns.  almond  2  tablespns  sugar 

butter  2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

yi  cup  rich  grape  juice  J^  cup  water 

Blend  almond  butter  and  water,  add  sugar,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  remove  from  fire  and  add  lemon  and  grape  juice. 
The  sauce  may  be  made  thinner. 

Almond  Whipped  Cream 
Rub  2  tablespns.    almond   butter   smooth   with    3  tablespns, 
water  and  chop  lightly  into  the  white  of  an  egg  that  has  been 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  i  tablespn.  of  sugar. 

Almond  Cream  for  Puddings  or  Cereals 
2  teaspns.  flour  2  tablespns.  almond  butter 

I  cup  water  little  salt 

J^  cup  distilled  water 

Heat  t    cup   of   water   to   boiling  and  thicken  with  the  flour 

blended  with  cold  water;  rub  almond  butter  smooth  with  salt 

and  distilled  water;  add  the  thickened  water,  beat  well,  serve  cold. 

Costard  Sauce 

I  pt.  milk  %  teaspn.  vanilla,  or  a 

yolk  of  3  eggs  few  drops  of  almond  ex- 

2-3  tablespns.  sugar  tract 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


PUDDING  SAUCES  333 

Cook  all  together  in  inner  cup  of  double  boiler  until  mixture 
will  coat  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Remove  at  once  from  fire  and 
set  in  pan  of  cold  water. 

For  plum  pudding,  the  custard  may  be  flavored  with  orange 
and  vanilla. 

Haple  Symp  Sauoe 

Boil  l4  cup  maple  syrup  with  %  c"P  water  (or  if  syrup  isthin, 
5i  cup  syrup  and  no  water)  until  it  threads.  Add  gradually, 
beating,  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  2  e^s  and  }4  cup  cream. 

For  some  desserts,  add  r  teaspn.  lemon  juice. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauoe 
}4  lb.  of  grated  maple  sugar,  i  cup  milk  or  thin  cream,  salt. 
Simmer  together  a  few  minutes,  stirring  often. 

MolosBes  Bauoes 
Cream — I  cup  molasses,   }4   cup  cream.     Whip  cream,  heat 
molasses  and  pour  over  it,  beating.     Serve  at  once. 
Butter — I  cup  molasses,  }^  cup  butter,  boil  ^  m. 

Lemon  Jnioe — 

I  cup  molasses  i  tablespn.  butter 

I  tablespn.  lemon  juice  salt 

Boil  10  m. 

Molasses  sauces  are  nice  with  rice,  bread  and  puR  omelets  and 
steamed  or  cottage  puddings. 

it  Plain  Pudding  Sanoe 

Rub  to  a  cream   X   cup  butter  (i  tablespn.  would  do)  and  i 

cup  brown  or  granulated  sugar;  add   i   tablespn.  flour,  pour  on 

gradually  l  J^  cup  boiling  water;  boil  5  m.,   stirring;  flavor  with 

vanilla,  or  add  I  tablespn,  lemon  juice. 

Rose  Sanoe 

Boil  to  a  thin  syrup  i  pt.  of  water  and  i  H  cup  of  sugar,  add 

a  very  little  salt,  a  trifle  of  red  fruit  color  and   1-3  drops  of  ex- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


334  THE   LAUREL 

tract  of  rose  with  or  without  t  or  2  tablespns.  of  lemon  juice. 

Serve  with  snow  pudding  or  blanc  maoge. 

For  Bed  Sauoe,  slice  a  rich  red  beet  into  the  water,  let  stand 
15-20  m.  in  a  hot  place  without  boiUng,  strain,  add  sugar  and  at 
the  last,  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring  or  both,  with  lemon  juice. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE 


In  the  seaweed.  Agar  Agar,  which  comes  from  the  rocky 
coasts  of  the  East  India  islands,  we  have  a  most  delightful  veg- 
etable gelatine.  Besides  being  clean  and  pure  and  sweet,  it  is 
inexpensive.  An  ounce  of  ^ar  Agar  will  solidify  from  two  to 
four  times  as  much  liquid  as  an  ounce  of  animal  gelatine.  The 
method  of  its  use  is  very  simple. 

DlreotionB 

Pour  water  that  feels  quite  hot  to  the  finger  over  the  gelatine 
and  let  it  stand  covered  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or  longer. 
When  ready  to  use,  drain  and  to  the  hot  water  drained  off  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  4  cups  (l  qt.)  for  each  ounce  of 
gelatine.  Pour  over  gelatine  and  cook  (taking  care  that  it  does 
not  boil  over)  in  covered  vessel  until  clear,  which  will  be  in  not 
over  2  or  three  minutes  if  the  gelatine  was  well  soaked. 

For  fruit  juices  and  nearly  all  liquids,  t  oz.  is  sufficient  for  16 
cups  {4  qts.),  including  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  The 
exceptions  will  be  noted  in  the  recipes.  This  proportion  makes 
that  delicate,  quaking  jelly  always  so  desirable. 

In  warm  weather  a  Httle  more  gelatine  may  be  required,  and 
the  proportions  vary  slightly  with  different  qualities  of  gelatine. 

Secrets  of  Buooess 

Keep  cooked  gelatine  warm  by  setting  dish  in  hot  water  (may 
be  cooked  in  inner  cup  of  double  boiler,  then  set  into  outer  boiler) 
until  ready  to  use. 

Leave  molds  quite  wet.  Set  in  cold  room  or  on  ice  or  in  ice 
water.  When  cold  surroundings  are  not  obtainable,  use  a  smaller 
proportion  of  liquid.  Do  not  unmold  until  just  before  serving 
time. 

If  for  any  reason  gelatine  becomes  solidified  or  partly  so  after 

[335] 


.b,CjOOi;lc 


33^  THE    LAUREL 

boiling,  before  molding,  boil  it  up  again  as  nothing  less  than  boil- 
ing heat  will  make  it  smooth. 

When  the  gelatine  is  to  be  cooked  in  stock  or  milk,  do  not 
have  water  for  soaking  quite  so  hot. 

Unless  a  very  transparent  jelly  is  desired,  straining  after  cook- 
ing is  unnecessary  with  a  good  quality  of  gelatine.  The  very 
cheapest  quality  may  require  several  strainings  but  I  question  the 
economy  of  its  use.  Strain,  if  at  all,  through  a  double  thickness 
of  cheese  cloth  (wrung  out  of  hot  water)  into  a  hot  vessel. 

Pour  cooked  gelatine  into  liquid  all  at  once,  stir  just  enough 
to  mix  well,  and  turn  immediately  into  molds.  Do  not  stir 
while  cooling. 

For  freezing,  use  K~)^  'ess  of  gelatine  and  ^  more  of  sugar 
in  recipes. 

To  unmold  jelly,  run  a  thin  bladed  knife  around  the  edge  care- 
fully, when  necessary;  turn  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served 
over  it  and  invert  quickly;  shake  gently.  If  the  mold  was  not 
drained  too  much,  there  will  be  no  necessity  for  using  a  warm, 
wet  cloth  or  vwirm  vrater  to  loosen  jelly. 

Use  jellies  with  fresh  pineapple  the  day  they  are  prepared. 

When  whipped  cream  is  used,  add  all  or  a  part  of  the  sugar  to 
it  before  mixing  it  with  the  other  ingredients. 

The  whites  of  the  eggs  must  be  beaten  with  all  or  nearly  all  of 
the  sugar  of  the  recipe  to  combine  well. 

If  directions  are  followed  carefully,  vegetable  gelatine  desserts 
will  be  found  among  the  easiest  to  prepare,  as  well  as  very  de- 
lightful. 

The  recipes  are  all  for  Agar  Agar  or  gelatine  in  bulk. 

In  each  recipe,  the  quantity  of  water  in  which  the  gelatine  is 
to  be  cooked  immediately  follows  it. 

Fndt  Jellies 
The  simplest  and  most  desirable  of  gelatine  desserts  are  the 
molds  made  of  fruit  juices,  either  of  one  variety  alone,  or  of  har- 
monious combinations  such  as  red  raspberry  and  currant,  straw- 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


GELATINE  337 

berry  and  currant,  strawberry  and  pineapple,  and  grape  and  peach 
(Ji  grape  and  ^  peach).  Cherry,  cranberry,  gooseberry,  apri- 
cot and  orange  are  among  the  many  juices  suitable  (or  jellies. 

The  fruit  itself  cut  fine  may  sometimes  be  used  in  connection 
with  the  juice,  pineapple  especially. 

The  addition  of  lemon  juice  gives  character  to  nearly  all  fruits. 
Add  water  and  sugar  to  make  not  too  rich. 

Jellies  may  be  served  plain,  with  fruit  juices,  or  with  whipped 
cream  or  custard;  or  with  egg  or  whipped  cream  sauce. 

When  obtainable,  the  fruit  and  leaves  of  the  fruit  used  in  the 
jelly  make  suitable  decorations. 

Proportions — %  oz.  gelatine  i  cup  water  3  cups  Eruit  juice 
The  water  is  that  in  which  the  gelatine  is  to  be  cooked.  Pre- 
jKire  the  juice,  cook  the  gelatine  {after  soaking)  and  pour  it,  all 
at  once,  into  the  juice.  Stir  just  enough  to  mix  well  and  pour 
into  molds.  This  quantity  will  make  about  12  good  sized  indi- 
vidual molds. 

Delioate  Lemon  Jellr 

%  oz.  gelatine  %  cup  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water  large  Ji  cup  sugar 

aj^  cups  water 

Frait  and  Hint  Jelly 

Make  delicate  lemon  jelly  with  i  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  some 
of  it  into  the  bottom  of  a  mold,  keeping  the  remainder  hot. 
When  cold,  but  hardly  beginning  to  set,  drop  small  pieces  of  grape 
fruit  pulp  into  it  and  sprinkle  with  shredded  fresh  mint.  Cover 
with  more  jelly.  Next,  place  a  layer  of  slices  of  red  skinned  apples 
around  the  edge  with  another  sprinkling  of  mint.  Have  the 
next  layer  of  green  skinned  apples,  and  finally  cover  with  jelly. 
Follow  general  directions  for  cooling  and  unmolding.  Other 
fruits  may  be  used. 

Beets  in  Jelly 

Layers  of  sliced  or  diced  boiled  red  beets  may  be  molded  with 
lemon  jelly  with  pleasing  effect- 


.b,Coo»^lc 


338  THE    LAUREL 

Orange  Jelly 

%  oz.  gelatine  I  }4  cup  orange  juice 

I  cup  water  i  cupwater  flavored  with  rind  of 

H  cup  lemon  juice  }^-fi  cup  of  sugar  [orange 

Heat  sugar  and  water  together  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  The 
orange  pulp  need  not  be  strained  out  of  the  juice. 

Orange  or  Iiemon  Jelly  with  Strawberries 
Press  ripe  whole,  or  pieces  of  strawberries  into  jelly  quickly 
when  just  cold  and  beginning  to  set  slightly.     Serve  with  whipped 
cream  garnished  with  slices  of  berries.      Red  raspberries  may  be 

used  instead  of  strawberries. 

Jelly  in  Orange  Gnps 
Orange  jelly  with  or  without  fruit  may  be  molded  in  cups  the 
size  of  orange  cups,  transferred  to  them  at  serving  time  and  fin- 
ished with  a  meringue  or  a  fluff  or  with  whipped  cream. 

it  Wedding  Breakfast  Salad 
yi  oz.  gelatine  ?'J  cup  water 

'A  cup  water  J-j-i  cup  sugar 

/6  cup  pineapple  juice  2  small  oranges 

i'a  cup  lemon  juice  2-3  bananas 

I  cup  very  dry  shredded  pineapple 

Heat  the  sugar  and  water  together,  remove  from  fire,  add  the 
lemon  and  pineapple  juice  and  gelatine;  then  the  fruit  which 
has  been  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  molds  and  set  on  ice. 
Use  the  day  it  is  made.     Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

I  once  saw  this  salad  served  with  two  orange  cups  tied  tt^ether 
with  baby  ribbon  the  color  of  the  bride's  dress,  having  the 
whipped  cream  piled  in  one  cup  and  the  jelly  cut  into  cubes  in  the 
other. 

Of  course  the  jelly  should  be  cut  just  before  serving. 

Red  Jelly  with  Fruit 
K  oz.  gelatine  scant  3  cups  cranberry  juice, 

1  cup  water  H-i  cup  sugar 

4-6  drops  lemon  extract 


o.Goo^^lc 


GEI-ATINE  339 

Stew  berries  in  an  equal  quantity  of  water  and  strain  for  juice. 
Pour  half  of  liquid  into  mold.  Let  it  set  slightly,  keeping  the 
remaining  half  hot.  Cover  with  shredded  or  cut  fruit  (oranges, 
bananas,  pineapple,  well  drained  canned  pears  or  peaches)  and 
pour  remainder  of  liquid  over.  Allow  jelly  tobecome  very  firm. 
Serve  with  garnish  of  whipped  cream  or  rich  meringue  flavored 
with  lemon  or  rose.  Dark  red  cherry  and  lemon  juice  make  a 
most  delightful  jelly  without  the  flavorings. 

•ff  Orange  Qflmish  for  Salad  or  Cold  Eatr6e 

Cut  a  small  hole  in  one  end  of  as  many  oranges  as  desired. 

Carefully  scoop  out  the  pulp,  leaving  the  rinds  whole.     Soak  in 

cold  water  an  hour  or  more.     Drain  and  wipe  dry  on  the  inside, 

then  leave  in  cold  place  until  well  dried. 

Make  a  jelly  in  the  proportion  of — 

K  oz.  gelatine  ?0  cup  sugar 

I  cup  water  (or  the  same  quantity  of  liquid. 
i.^  cup  cranberry  juice  using  cherry  and  lemon  juice) 

5  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

When  nearly  cold,  carefully  fill  cups,  harden,  and  at  serving 
time  cut  the  oranges  in  si.\ths  or  eighths,  rind  and  all. 

Orange,  lemon  and  other  fruit  jellies  may  be  used  by  taking 
only  I  ^  cup  of  liquid  besides  the  water  in  the  gelatine. 

Apple  Sanoe  Uolds—Tery  nioe 

/4  oz.  gelatine  4  cups  pulp  of  steamed  apples 

I  cup  water  2j^-3  tablespns,  lemon  juice 

I  tablespn.  sugar 

Serve  with  e^  sauce,  custard  or  whipped  cream,  or  with  blue- 
berry or  grape  juice. 

Orange  Cream 
a  oz.  gelatine  2-3  tablespns.  sugar 

I  cup  water  H  cup  cream,  plain  or 

H  tablespn.  lemon  juice  with  whipped 

orange  juice  to  make  K  of  acup 

Add  lemon  and  orange  juice  to  cooked  gelatine,  and  sugar  to 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


340  THE    LAUREL 

cream,  then  pour  gelatine  into  cream,  mixing  carefully  if  cream 
is  whipped.     Mold. 

Pineapple  may  be  used  the  same,  or  fi  pineapple  and  Ji  or- 
ange juice. 

Prune  Cream  Mold 
K  oz.  gelatine  H  teaspn.  vanilla 

1  cup  water  i  cup  cream,  whipped 

pulp  oE  !4  lb.  (24  medium  2  tablespns.  sugar 

sized)  prunes  with  water  enough  to  make  2-2/4  cups 

Pineapple  Sponge 
X  oz.  gelatine  .     2  teaspns.  lemon  juice  in  cup, 

I  cup  water  pineapple  juice  to  fill  the  cup 

1  cup  cream,  plain  whites  of  4  eggs 

J4  teaspn,  vanilla  H  cup  sugar 

1  tablespn,  lemon  juice 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat,  chop  in  the  lemon 
juice,  then  the  cream  and  the  pineapple  juice,  carefully,  and 
lastly  add  the  gelatine,  not  too  warm,  and  put  at  once  into  molds. 
Some  of  the  fruit  cut  fine  may  be  used  with  the  juice. 

Lemon  Snow 

H  oz.  gelatine  i  H  cup  water 

I  cup  water  whites  of  3  eggs 

^  cup  lemon  juice  i  cup  sugar 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  beatingwell,  then  the 
lemon  juice  and  water,  slowly,  chopping  in  lightly,  then  add  the 
gelatine,  not  very  warm. 

May  serve  with  border  of  grated  or  shredded  pineapple.  Make 
pineapple,  gooseberry,  grape  and  other  fruit  snows  in  the  same 
way. 

Sponge  Pudding 

>i  oz.  gelatine  4  tablespns.  (H  cup)  lemon 

r  cup  water  5  tablespns.  sugar         [juice 

yolks  4  eggs  whites  4  eggs 

6  tablespns.  sugar 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  in  inner  cup  of  double  boiler  and  pour  slowly 

over  them  the  lemon  juice  and  5  tablespns.  of  sugar,  hot,  not 


t,zc-ob,CjOO»^lc 


WEDDING  BREAKFAST  SALAD,  P.  338  GELATINE  BLANC  MANGE,  P.  34I 


ORANGE  MINT  SALAD,  P.  291  APPLE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD,  P.  290 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


GELATINE  341 

boiling;  cook  like  custard,  cool;  chop  into  whites  of  e^^  which 
have  been  stiffly  beaten  with  the  6  tablespns.  of  sugar,  and  add 
the  gelatine,  not  very  warm.  Serve  with  unflavored,  whipped 
cream  or  with  grape  juice. 

ir  Gtolatine  Blano  H&nge 
)i  oz.  gelatine  3-4.  tablespns.  sugar 

4.  cups  rich  milk  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Soak  gelatine  in  warm  water,  drain  and  cook  in  part  of  the 
milk  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler  (let  stand  in  the  outer 
boiler  until  well  heated,  then  boil  carefully  over  the  fire). 
When  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  sugar, 
then  the  cold  milk  and  lastly,  the  vanilla.  Mold.  Serve  with 
cream  or  any  desired  sauce. 

Coooonut  Blano  Mange 
Flavor  milk  with  cocoanut  and  proceed  as  in  gelatine  blanc 
mange.     Serve  with  rich  blueberry  juice,  or  with  cream  or  custard. 

ir  Blo«  Charlotte 
M  oz.  gelatine  iH  cup  milk 

j4  cup  water  a-aj^  tablespns.  sugar 

}i  cup  rice  /4  cup  cream 

flavoring 

After  boiling  rice  in  salted  water  20  m.  to  j4  hr.  drain  and 
cook  in  milk  in  double  boiler  i  hr.  Add  water  to  that  drained 
from  the  rice  to  make  %  cup,  which  add  with  sugar,  flavoring 
and  gelatine  to  rice  when  partly  cooled.  Lastly,  mi.\ 
whipped  cream  in  lightly  and  mold.  Serve  alone  or  with  cream, 
plain  or  whipped,  with  orange  egg  cream  sauce  or  fruit  sauce 
and  halves  of  nuts.  When  serving  with  fruit  sauces  omit  flavor- 
ings. 

If  desired  richer,  1  cup  only  of  milk  may  be  used  for  cooking 
rice,  and  l  cup  cream,  whipped,  added.  A  garnish  of  small 
molds  of  orange  or  other  fruit  jelly  around  the  charlotte  is  very 
pretty. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


343  THE   LAUREL 

It  Whipped  Cream  JeLLy—Mias  Hnghes 
H  oz.  gelatine  1%  cup  cream 

I  cup  water  /^-3^  cup  sugar 

Whip  cream,  not  too  much,  add  sugar,  then  gelatine.  Tint 
delicately  with  pink  or  green  when  desired,  and  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  rose  or  both  or  with  orange  and  vanilla  sometimes;  but 
as  a  rule,  it  is  preferred  without  flavoring.  May  be  served  with 
cake  or  vrafers  and  berries, 

ir  Maple  Cream 
/4  oz.  gelatine  iH  cup  maple  syrup 

I  cup  water  I/6  cup  cream 

Add  syrup  to  gelatine,  then  both  to  whipped  cream.  Mold 
and  serve  with  wafers. 

Jellied  Caf£  au  Lait 
H  oz.  gelatine  2  cups  milk  in  which  i  j4-3  tablespns.  of 

I  cup  water  cereal  coffee  have  been  steeped 

Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  sweetened  cream,  flavored  with 
vanilla  if  desired. 

OoUee  Bavariaa 
K  oz,  gelatine  i  cup  milk 

I  cup  water  /^  cup  sugar 

3  cups  strong  cereal  coffee  4  eggs 

J^-i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Strain  coffee  through  cloth,  mix  with  milk,  sugar  and  eggs; 
cook  like  custard.  Cool  partly  before  adding  vanilla;  add  gela- 
tine and  mold.  Serve  with  unsweetened  cream  with  cake  or 
wafers. 

Coffee  Bavarian  and  Blano  Hange  or  Jellied  Costard 
May    be    molded    in   layers  and  served  with  a  sweetened  and 
vanilla  flavored  meringue  or  with  whipped  cream  in  roses. 

-*  JeUied  Costard 
K  oz,  gelatine  3  cups  rich  milk 

I  cup  water  3  eggs 

4.-6  tablespns.  sugar 


ovGoo^^lc 


GELATINE  343 

Cook  custard,  flavor  if  desired,  add  gelatine,  mold.  Serve 
with  blueberry,  grape  or  any  suitable  fruit  juice,  or  with  un- 
sweetened cream,  plain  or  whipped.  Or,  cook  milk  and  yolks  of 
eg^  together,  cool,  add  gelatine,  and  pour  into  whites  beaten 
with  sugar,  chopping  quickly  together.  Or,  use  }i  cup  cream, 
whipped,  instead  of  whites  of  eggs  and  2}4  cups  of  milk  only. 
Jellied  Custard  witti  Ueringue 
%  oz.  gelatine  4  yolks  of  eggs 

I  cup  water  4.-6  tabtespns.  sugar 

3  cups  rich  milk  flavoring 

Cook  custard  and  cool;  add  vanilla  and  gelatine,  mold.  Just 
before  serving,  beat  the  whites  of  the  e^s  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
2  or  3  tablespns.  of  sugar  (powdered  preferable).  Add  \%-2]4 
tablespns.  lemon  juice,  and  heap  by  spoonfuls  around  the  base 
of  the  mold.  Serve  at  once.  If  preferred,  I  cup  of  milk  may 
be  used  to  cook  the  gelatine  in  after  soaking,  instead  of  water. 

UaTahmallow  Pudding 
%  oz.  gelatine  whites  3  eggs 

I  cup  water  %•%  cup  sugar 

K  teaspn.  vanilla 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating, 
then  vanilla,  lastly  the  warm  gelatine,  chopping  in  quickly. 
Mold  in  shallow  pan.  Just  before  serving  unmold  and  with  hot, 
dry  knife  cut  into  cubes.  Serve  with  cream,  custard  or  fruit 
juice  or  use  as  garnish  for  other  dishes. 

Cream  of  Tomato  and  Carrot  Jelly 
%  oz.  gelatine  2  teaspns.  salt 

3  cups  rich  milk  2  level  teaspns.  sugar 

I  cup  strained  tomato  K  cup  carrot 

Soak  gelatine  in  warm  water,  drain,  cook  in  milk;  add  the 
tomato,  sugar  and  salt  with  cooked  carrot  which  has  been  rubbed 
through  a  fine  colander,  mold.  Serve  garnished  with  spin- 
ach or  chervil  as  a  cold  entree,  with  nuts  and  wafers.  Or,  mold 
in  small  molds  and  use  as  agarnish  for  other  dishes.      May  flavor 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


344  THE   LAUREL 

milk  with  onion  or  onion  and  garlic,  straining  them  out  after 
cooking  gelatine. 

if    Tomato  Jelly 
H  oz.  gelatine  3  tablespns.  chopped  onion 

I  cup  water  H  teaspn.  celery  seed, crushed,  or 

3  tablespns.  lemon  juice  with  H  cup  dried  celery  tops,  or 

strained  tomato  to  make  3  cups     i  teaspn.  celery  salt 
1-1/4  tablespn.  sugar  2-2/^  teaspns.  salt 

I  tabtespn.  chopped  parsley 

Simmer  all  ingredients  (except  gelatine  and  parsley)  together 
for  20  m.,  strain,  add  parsley  and  cooked  gelatine  and  pour  into 
mold.  Individual  molds  may  be  served  on  lettuce,  spinach  or 
endive  with  or  without  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 

ir  Tomato  Aspio 
}i  oz.  gelatine  2%  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water  M-i  tablespn.  salt 

3  cups  tomato  juice  }i  teaspn.  celery  salt,  tied  in 

I  tablespn.  sugar  bit  of  muslin 

Drain  juice  from  stewed  tomatoes  without  pressing  the  pulp 
through;  add  other  ingredients.  Simmer  all  together  10-15  "i; 
strain,  add  water  to  make  3  cups,  mix  with  cooked  gelatine  and 
mold. 

Green  peas,  sprays  of  parsley,  sliced  celery,  or  trumese  or  nut- 
mese  In  dice  (singly  or  in  combinations)  may  be  put  in  with  jelly, 
in  layers,  the  same  as  fruit,  in  fruit  and  mint  jelly.  Serve 
garnished  as  a  cold  entree  for  luncheon  or  for  supper  or  for  one 
course  at  dinner.  Mold  in  small  molds  sometimes  and  use  as  a 
garnish. 

Aspio—Light 
a  oz.  gelatine  2^-3  cups  light  stock 

I  cup  water  (tinted  green  if  desired) 

If  preferred  pour  hot  stock  over  2  yolks  of  eggs  and  cook  and 
add  to  gelatine.     May  be  molded  in  small  molds  for  garnishing. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


A  mold  of  jellied  bouillon  or  stock  surrounded  with  halves  of 
nuts  or  delicate  wafers  or  both,  may  be  served  in  place  of  soup. 

Bouillon  for  Jelly 
ij4-aj4  level  tablespns.  raw  nut  butter    2-3  cloves  of  garlic 
yi  cup  chopped  onion  crushed 

1  cup  strained  tomato  i/4  level  tablespn.  salt 

2  a  level  tablespns.  browned  flour  water 

Mix  browned  flour,  salt,   nut  butter  and  tomato,  add  water, 
onion  and  garlic.     Cook  }4-\   hour  and  strain.     Add  water  for 

3  pts.     If  cleared  (p.  77),  there  will  be  1  qt.  only.      Use  in  pro- 
portion of  4  cups  to  the  }i  oz.  of  gelatine. 

Light  Stock  tor  Jelly 
K  cup  raw  nut  butter  H  level  teaspn.  sage 

I  cup  chopped  onion  2-2H  bay  leaves 

I  level  tablespn.  celery  ij^  level  tablespn,  salt 

seed  or  salt  /^  level  teaspn.  thyme 

Simmer  }4-l  hour,  strain  and  clear  (p.  Jj).     3>^-4  cups  after 
clearing.      Use  in  proportion  of  3^  cups  to  the  %  oz.  of  gelatine. 

Dark  Stock  tor  Jelly 

n  cup  raw  nut  butter  or  meal  ^  level  teaspn.  sage 

I  cup  chopped  onion  /^-K  level  teaspn.  thyme 

3  cloves  of  garlic  crushed  i/4  level  tablespn.  salt 

/4  cup  strained  tomato  i  level  tablespn.  browned 

I  level  teaspn.  celery  salt  water  [flour 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  tomato  with  nut  butter  which  has 
been  stirred  smooth  with  water,  then  onion,  garlic  and  water. 
Cook  J4-  I  hour;  strain  and  add  water  for  3  pts.  This  may  be 
used  uncleared,  but  if  cleared  (p.  77)  there  will  be  i  qt.  only. 
Use  in  proportion  of  4  cups  to  the  j4  oz.  of  gelatine. 
Aspic  tor  ORmiahing 
a  oz.  gelatine  2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water  cleared  bouillon  with  it  to  make  i  cup 

Pour  into  shallow  mold  to  desired  depth.      Unmold  and  cut 
with  hot  dry  knife  into  dice  or  fancy  shapes  just  before  serving. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


34^  THE   LAUREL 

JeUlsd  Brotli"DaTk 

H  oz.  gelatine         i  cup  water         t  qt.  dark  stock,  uncleared 
Moid  in  small  cups  and  serve  in  soup  plates  or  on  small  plates, 
surrounded  with  soup  crackers  and  halves  of  nuts  with  fringed 
celery. 

aelatine  of  TnuneBe 
Cut  trumese  (some  nutmese  also  if  wished)  into  }4-H  in.  dice. 
Mold  with  light  aspic,  using  sprays  of  parsley  and  small  button 
mushrooms  if  wished. 

May  serve  on  a  bed  of  green,  with  improved  mayonnaise  roses. 

Jellied  Cream  Trumese  <  Salad  U  Desired) 

n  oz.  gelatine  H-^  cup  cream 

I  cup  broth — light  stock  with-         4-50Z.,  (9  tablespns.-M-i 

out  celery  and  bay  leaves  cup)  trumese 

salt  if  necessary 

Add  minced  trumese  to  gelatine  cooked  in  broth  and  when 
partly  cooled,  chop  into  whipped  cream.  Mold  in  large  or  small 
molds.  Mold  may  be  garnished  with  celery  tops  and  served  with 
wafers  and  stalks  of  celery,  or  garnished  with  fringed  celery  or 
ripe  olives  and  parsley,  the  celery  or  olives  with  wafers  to  be 
served  with  mold. 

Or,  the  one  or  individual  molds  may  be  served  with  improved  or 

cream  mayonnaise  dressing  with  ripe  olives  orceleryand  wafers. 

The  Medical  TTse  of  A«ar  Agar 

Quite  recently  the  use  of  agar  agar  as  a  remedy  for  constipa- 
tion has  been  discovered.  "Life  and  Health"  says:  "Agar  Agar, 
a  vegetable  gelatine  prepared  from  East  Indian  seaweeds,  has 
been  given  an  official  recommendation  l^  the  Council  of  Phar- 
macy as  a  remedy  for  constipation." 

One  physician  suggests  cutting  it  into  small  pieces  and  eating 
it  with  cream  as  a  porridge.  It  may  also  be  served  with  fruit 
juices  and  other  liquids. 

The  liquid  should  be  poured  over  it  a  few  minutes  before 
serving,  to  moisten  it  sufficiently  for  mastication.  A  dru^st 
said,  however,  that  it  might  be  chewed  dry. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


Pies  are  not  necessarily  unwholesome  articles  of  diet.  They 
may  be  just  good  rich  unleavened  bread  and  fruit.  Perhaps  the 
greatest  objection  to  pies  occasionally,  is  the  length  of  time  it 
takes  to  make  them,for  paste  that  will  make  a  tender  crust  can- 
not be  rolled  out  in  a  hurry.  It  is  better  to  have  something  else 
for  dessert  when  one  has  not  time  to  make  a  good  pie. 

Suggestions 

Always  use  pastry  flour  {winter  wheat)  for  pie  crust.  Bread 
flour  requires  more  shortening,  creeps  together  when  rolled  and 
does  not  make  a  nice,  tender  crust  when  you  have  done  your 
best  with  it. 

Always  use  pastry  (never  bread)  flour  for  thickening  cream  or 
lemon  pies.  If  cream  pies  are  not  to  be  used  the  day  they  are 
baked  less  flour  will  be  required.  Lemon  pies  should  be  used 
the  day  they  are  baked. 

Apple  and  all  fruit  pies  require  a  little  flour  in  the  tilling,  for 
the  flavor  as  well  as  to  absorb  the  juice.  A  Uttle  salt  develops 
the  flavors  of  fruits.  Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt  together  and 
put  enough  of  it  over  the  under  crust  to  cover  it  well  in  order  to 
prevent  the  crust  from  soaking  and  to  allow  the  sugar  to  cook 
up  throi^h  the  fruit. 

Berry  pies  may  have  most  of  the  sugar  mixture  stirred  with 
them  before  putting  into  the  crust.  A  little  browned  flour  may 
sometimes  be  added  to  the  mixture  for  apple  pies. 

Do  not  peel  rhubarb  for  pies. 

To  keep  the  juice  from  running  out,  wet  strips  of  pliable  cloth 
2  or  3  in.  wide  (bias  better)  and  wrap  around  the  edge  of  pies 
where  the  crusts  join,  so  that  half  is  on  the  top  crust  and  half 
under  the  et^e,  and  press  close  all  around. 

[347] 


,ob,Goo>^lc 


348  THE   LAUREL 

Milk  or  hot  or  cold  water  may  be  used;  leave  the  strips  quite 
wet;  remove  from  pies  while  hot ;  they  may  be  used  several  times. 

Another  method  is  to  make  a  small  opening  in  the  upper  crust 
and  insert  a  little  roll  of  paper,  like  a  chimney,  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape. 

It  is  a  good  plan,  also,  to  put  the  upper  crust  on  to  the  pie  as 
loose  as  possible;  Hft  it  and  make  wrinkles  in  it  all  around,  back 
from  the  edge  of  the  pie,  before  pressingthetwo  crusts  ti^ether; 
this  will  keep  the  steam  and  juice  in  the  pie  instead  of  forcing 
them  out. 

One  way  to  make  the  edges  stay  together  is  to  wet  the  edge 
of  the  lower  crust  and  sprinkle  fiour  over  it  (shaking  off  what 
does  not  adhere)justbeforefilling  and  putting  on  the  upper  crust. 

If  with  all  your  care  the  juice  begins  to  run  out,  either  at  the 
edge  or  through  the  openings  in  the  crust,  remove  the  pie  at 
once  from  the  oven  and  let  it  stand  on  the  hearth  or  table  until 
it  stops  boiling.  (If  necessary,  put  a  little  dry  flour  in  the  space). 
Return  to  the  oven  and  by  slow  cooking  it  may  not  runout  again; 
if  it  does,  take  it  out  again,  but  do  not  leave  it  out  until  the 
fruit  is  perfectly  cooked.  It  would  be  too  bad  to  waste  all  the 
labor  of  making  a  pie  by  serving  it  underdone. 

Make  pies  without  under  crust  when  preferred.  Put  a  strip  of 
paste  around  the  edge  of  a  shallow  pudding  dish  or  deep  pie  pan, 
fill  dish  with  prepared  fruit,  sugar  and  flour,  cover  with  a  lid  of 
paste,  press  on  to  the  strip  and  bake. 

Fillings  of  squash,  pumpkin  or  sweet  potato  pies  may  be  baked 
on  pie  pans,  in  custard  cupsor  in  pudding  dishes,  without  a  crust, 
and  with  or  without  a  meringue. 

Serve  fruit  pies  the  day  they  are  baked.  Those  that  are  una- 
voidably left  over,  put  into  the  oven  and  just  heat  through 
before  serving,  to  make  like  fresh  pies. 

Apple  pies  may  be  put  together  at  night,  kept  in  the  ice  box 
and  baked  the  next  morning. 


PIES  349 

For  custard  or  other  deep  pies,  cut  the  crust  with  the  shears 
about  J^  inch  larger  than  the  pan,  moisten  the  underside  of  the 
edge  slightly  and  pinch  it  up  with  floured  thumb  and  finger  so 
that  it  will  stand  up  above  the  e<^e  of  the  pan.  The  crust  may 
be  pinched  up  before  trimming  and  cut  around  the  edge  of  the 
pan  with  a  knife.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  set  the  prepared  crust  in 
the  ice  box  long  enough  to  become  firm  before  filling. 

Crust  may  be  put  on  to  several  pans  when  making  pies  one 
day  and  baked  when  desired. 

Several  crusts  can  be  baked  at  a  time,  then  just  heated  before 
using. 

To  bake  before  filling  without  blistering,  put  pastry  on  to  one 
pan,  set  another  of  the  same  size  into  it  and  bake  between  the 
two. 

Another  way  is  to  cover  the  pastry  with  poraffine  paper  and 
fill  to  the  depth  of  >^  in.  with  flour.  The  partially  browned 
flour  may  be  used  in  soups  and  gravies  afterwards. 

Fill  pastry-lined  patty  pans  with  raw  rice,  cover  with  an  upper 
crust  and  bake  when  baked  patty  cases  are  desired.  The  rice 
will  not  be  injured  and  the  crusts  will  keep  their  shape. 

Sometimes  with  two-crust  pies,  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  of 
the  crust  when  done  and  leave  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes. 

Lattice  work  of  strips  of  crust  put  on  in  diamonds  or  squares 
makes  an  attractive  finish  for  such  lemon  and  orange  pies  as  will 
hold  the  strips  up,  as  well  as  for  cranberry  and  mince  pies. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue  with  woven  wire  spoon  or 
silver  fork  until  stiff;  add  J^-i  tablespn.  of  sugar  to  each  white 
and  beat  till  very  stiff,  add  flavoring,  pile  in  rocky  form  on  to 
hot  pie,  bringing  meringue  well  out  over  the  crust;  brown  deli- 
cately on  top  grate  of  moderate  oven.  As  soon  as  the  tips  are 
tinted  the  meringue  is  done.  Overbaking  makes  it  tough  and. 
causes  it  to  draw  away  from  the  edges.  Having  the  pie  hot 
when  the  meringue  is  put  on  helps  to  cook  it  more  evenly  and 
keeps  it  from  becoming  watety  next  to  the  pie. 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


3SO  THE    LAUREL 

When  but  one  white  is  to  be  used  forameringue,  do  not  beat 
it  quite  so  stiff  and  use  a  little  more  sugar  so  that  it  will  spread 
over  the  top  of  the  pie  well. 

Tiny  dots  of  beaten  jelly  may  be  placed  with  a  pastry  tube  in 
the  depressions  of  the  meringue  of  lemon  pies,  after  baking. 

In  cutting  pies  with  a  meringue,  cut  just  through  the  meringue 
first  with  a  thin  bladed  knife  dipped  in  cold  water;  afterwards 
cut  to  the  bottom. 

Pies  should  always  be  left  so  that  a  current  of  air  will  pass 
under  them  while  cooling  to  keep  the  crust  from  soaking. 

A  Pastry  for  one  Iiarge  Fie 
2%  cups  flour,    salt  i-i>^  teaspn.  lemon  juice 

large  Yi  cup  of  cooking  oil  ice  water 

Have  all  ingredients  as  nearly  ice  cold  as  possible.  Dip  the 
flour  lightly  into  the  cup  with  a  spoon,  do  not  shake  it  down. 
Mix  salt  with  flour;  pour  oil  over  and  chop  it  in  with  a  spoon; 
do  not  mix  much.  Put  the  lemon  juice  in  a  cup,  add  water  to 
make  3^  of  a  cup,  and  pour  over  the  flour  and  oil  mixture,  add- 
ing enough  more  water  to  make  a  rather  soft  dough;  chop  all 
together  with  a  spoon,  press  into  a  mass  without  kneading,  roll 
out  without  mixing  on  a  well  floured  board,  with  a  well  floured 
rolling  pin.  A  httle  more  oil  will  be  required  when  lemon  juice 
is  not  used. 

Nut  or  olive  oil  may  be  substituted  for  cooking  oil,  with  a 
slightly  smaller  proportion  of  olive  oil.  Olive  oil  does  not,  of 
course,  harmonize  as  well  in  flavor  with  all  fillings  as  the  others. 

%  farina  may  be  used  in  crust,  with  less  shortening. 

In  mixing  crust  for  several  pies  at  once,  not  quite  so  large  a 
quantity  will  be  required  for  each. 

Keep  crust  that  is  left  each  time  well  covered  in  a  cool  place 
and  when  making  pies  again,  chop  or  grind  it  and  mix  it  with  the 
flour  before  adding  the  oil.    It  will  make  the  new  crust  more  flaky. 
"Pie  FLakea'* 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  oil  for  a  quantity  of  pies.     Put  into  a  la^e. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


close  covered  jar  (or  tin  pail  lined  with  waxed  paper)  and  set  in 
cold  place.  To  make  a  pie,  take  out  about  2^  cupfuls,  add 
water  and  mix  and  roll  as  usual. 

Hot  Water  Cnut 

Mix  together  equal  quantities  of  oilandboilingwaterand  pour 
over  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  salt. 

This  crust  rolls  out  more  easily  than  ice  water  crust  but  is  not 
as  tender'and  flaky.  A  slightly  larger  proportion  of  oil  may  be 
used,  but  if  too  rich,  the  crust  cannot  be  handled  at  all.  , 

it  Cream  Pastry 
Mix  flour  and  salt  and  pour  enough  thick  sweet  or  sour  cream 
over  to  roll  out  well.     The  thicker  the  cream,   the  better  the 
crust  will  be.     Sour  cream   makes   more    crisp  and  tender  crust 
than  sweet  and  has  not  the  least  sour  taste  when  baked. 

Butter  Cnut 
Rub  together  j4  cup  {ji  lb.)  butter  and  2  cups  {j4  lb.)  flour; 
wet  with  ice  water  to  make  of  a  roUable  consistency,  press  into 
a  mass  and  set  in  the  ice  box.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  roll 
}i-}4  inch  thick;  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour, 
roll  up,  cut  across  the  roll  and  roll  pieces  out  thin  for  the  pie. 
Butter  pastry  is  not  tender  even  when  much  pains  is  taken  with 
it  and  the  flavor  is  not  agreeable. 

Bread  Pie  Crust 
4  slices  small  loaf  of  bread  6  tablespns.  oil 

boiling  milk,     salt  2-3^  cups  flour 

Dip  slices  of  bread  in  boiling  milk,  cool,  add  oil,  salt,  and  flour 
to  roll.     This  makes  two  under  crusts. 

TSut  Heal  Crust 
2  cups  flour  salt 

I  cup  home  made  peanut  meal  cream 

Mix  flour,  meal  and  salt,  pour  enough  moderately  rich  cream 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


352  THE    LAUREL 

over  to  make  a  paste  to  roll  out.     A  little  oil  may  be  added  to 
the  meal  and  flour,  and  water  used  in  place  of  cream. 

ir  Granella  Crust 

For  one  good  sized  pie  take  about  K  cup  of  granella  (less  if 
fine,  more  if  coarse,  but  it  is  better  not  to  be  too  coarse  nor  too 
very  fine).  Mix  a  little  salt  with  it  and  pour  over  it  quickly, 
enough  rich  milk  or  thin  cream  to  moisten  it  slightly,  about  % 
cup,  perhaps.  (If  too  moist,  the  crust  will  be  soggy.)  Turn 
imm^ately  on  to  the  pan  and  spread  and  press  it  evenly  with  a 
spoon  over  the  bottom  and  sides,  dipping  the  spoon  often  into 
cold  water.  A  teaspoon  is  best  for  the  sides,  and  holding  the 
forefinger  of  the  left  hand  above  the  edge  of  the  pan  as  you  are 
pressing  with  the  spoon  makes  the  edge  of  the  crust  firmer  and 
smoother.  Do  not  let  the  crust  come  over  the  edge  of  the  pan, 
because  only  that  part  which  adheres  to  the  filling  will  come 
out  with  the  pieces  of  pie  when  served;  the  remainder  will  drop 
off  and  be  wasted.  For  that  reason  the  crust  should  be  just  as 
thin  as  it  is  jxissible  to  pat  it  out  on  the  pan.  Be  careful  to 
make  the  crust  in  the  angle  between  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
pan  no  thicker  than  in  any  other  part.  The  novice  usually  fills 
that  in  rounding.  A  positive  pressure  of  the  teaspoon  in  press- 
ing the  paste  up  on  the  edge  of  the  pan  will  remove  the  extra 
portion  there. 

In  baking  these  crusts  before  filling,  watch  them  that  they  do 
not  get  too  brown,  and  handle  them  carefully. 

I  have  been  thus  explicit  because  this  is  of  all  pie  pastes  the 
most  important  hygienically  and  in  point  of  time.  It  is  very 
quickly  and  easily  made,  in  fact,  it  must  be  made  quickly.  If  the 
crust  stands  long  after  the  liquid  is  added,  it  does  not  spread  well. 

In  making  a  large  number  of  pies,  mix  each  crust  separately: 
you  will  save  time.  Zwieback  crumbs  may  be  used  instead  of 
granella  and  almond  or  cocoanut  cream  in  place  of  dairy.  The 
cream  must  be  thin  or  the  crust  will  not  spread  well. 


.b,Coo»^lc 


PIES  353 

Granella  Croat  No.  3 

Allow  scant  %  cup  of  granella  to  each  pie.  Mecisure  up  the 
quantity  required.  Mix  the  salt  with  it  and  pour  oil  over  in 
the  proportion  of  %  tablespn.  of  oil  to  each  pie,  {%  tablespn. 
melted  butter  may  be  used  and  no  salt.)  Rub  all  well  together 
with  the  hands,  take  out  enough  for  each  pie  at  a  time,  wet 
with  cold  water  and  proceed  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  This 
mixture  will  need  to  be  quite  wet  to  spread. 

Zwieback  crumbs  may  be  used  for  this  also. 
FUlings  for  Granella  Fiea 

The  pulp  of  stewed  prunes,  peaches,  apricots  or  dried  apples, 
or  other  not  too  juicy  materials,  with  or  without  a  meringue  or 
whipped  cream,  or  a  sprinkling  of  dry  granella  on  the  top. 

Cooked  fillings  of  cream  or  lemon  pies  are  delightful  in  the 
baked  crusts. 

If  you  have  not  a  pie  knife,  use  two  broad  flat  knives  in  serv- 
ing a  pie  with  granella  crust. 

it  Apple  Pie 
5  or  6  medium  sized,  tart,  yi-%  cup  sugar 

juicy  apples  i  tablespn.  flour 

K  teaspD.  salt  crust 

Prepare  apples  according  to  directions  for  apple  sauce,  p.  4^, 
cut  the  quarters  in  two  if  large,  then  in  halves  crosswise.  This 
will  give  irregular  shaped  pieces  which  when  placed  in  the  crust 
will  allow  spaces  for  the  steam  to  come  in  contact  with  the  fruit 
and  cook  it  more  quickly  and  thoroughly  than  when  packed  in 
slices. 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt  for  each  pie  in  a  bowl  by  itself. 
When  the  bottom  crust  is  on  the  pan.  spread  about  half  the 
sugar  mixture  over  it,  put  in  a  generous  quantity  of  apples  so 
that  when  baked  the  pie  will  be  level,  not  depressed,  and  sprinkle 
the  remainder  of  the  mixture  over,  taking  pains  to  have  a  little 
more  at  the  edges  because  of  not  having  any  underneath  there. 
It  is  very  disappointing  to  find  the  last  mouthfuls  of  pie  near 
the  crust  less  sweet  than  the  first  from  the  center. 

Be  sure  that  the  edge  of  the  under  crust  is  moistened,  lay  on 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


354  THE   LAUREL 

the  upper  crust  as  directed,  press  the  edges  down  well,  trim  off 
the  extra  crust  (unless  you  fold  it  under  the  bottom  crust),  and 
with  the  thumb  and  forefinger  press  the  edges  well  together. 

Make  incisions  in  the  crust  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife  for  the 
steam  to  escape,  bind  the  edges  with  strips  of  cloth  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  turning  occasionally,  for  ^-i  hour.  To  be 
sure  that  the  apples  are  tender  try  them  with  a  broom  splint 
through  the  spaces  in  the  crust. 

Brown  sugar  or  molasses  may  be  used  to  sweeten  apple  pies 
once  in  a  while  as  some  people  are  verj'  fond  of  those  sweets. 
The  nice  dried  greening  apples  that  we  get  sometimes  may  be 
soaked  over  night  and  used  the  same  as  fresh  apples. 

Other  Fruit  Pies 

Apple  and  Elder-berry — 1}4  pt.  apple  prepared  as  for  apple 
pie,  I  pt.  elder-berries,  %  cup  sugar,  i  tablespn.  flour,  2  teaspns. 
lemon  juice,  salt.  Lemon  juice  may  be  omitted.  A  smaller  pro- 
portion of  elder-berries  may  be  used  and  the  pie  still  be  delicious. 

Dutoh  Apple — Fill  a  buttered  pie  plate  with  apples  without 
sugar,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  a  rather  thick  crust 
and  bake.  Invert  on  dessert  plate,  sprinkle  with  sugar  (mixed 
with  coriander  if  liked)  and  serve  hot. 

Phoebe's,  Delioiona — Nearly  fill  the  crust  with  dry,  nicely  sea- 
soned, fresh  apple  sauce;  cover  with  a  J^  inch  layer  of  raspberry 
jam  which  has  been  beaten  so  as  to  spread  welt ;  bake.  The  jam 
may  be  put  on  after  the  pie  is  baked,  or  both  apple  and  jam  may 
be  put  into  a  baked  crust.  The  pie  may  have  a  meringue,  but 
Phoebe's  didn't. — It  may  also  be  baked  with  two  crusts. 

Bbabarb  and  Apple — l  %  qt.  rhubarb,  }i-}4  cup  thick,  slightly 
sweetened,  strained  apple  sauce,  \j4  cup  sugar,  2}4  tablespns. 
flour,  %  teaspn.  salt.  Mix  apple  sauce  with  rhubarb  and  pro- 
ceed as  in  apple  pie. 

Blueberry — Scant  i  qt.  berries,  !  tablespn.  flour,  }4  teaspn. 
salt.     A  little  water  if  berries  are  dry. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PIES  355 

Hook  Cherry — 1 J^  cup  cranberries,  K  cup  seeded  raisins,  ^ 
cup  sugar,  ij^  tablespn.  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  ij^  cup  boiling 
water.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt;  pour  boiling  water  over  and 
boil  up,  Cut  cranberries  in  halves  and  raisins  in  small  pieces 
with  the  shears  and  add  to  syrup.      2  crusts. 

Cranberry  and  Baisio — i  cup  ground  cranberries  (2  cups  before 
grinding),  icupgroundraisins{lH  cup  beforegrinding),!  cup  sugar, 
I  tablespn.  flour,  l>i  cup  water,  salt.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt; 
pour  boiling  water  over,  stirring,  boil  up,  add  cranberries  and 
raisins.      2  crusts,  or  strips  of  pastry  across  top. 

Cranberry — i  lb.  {4%  cups)  whole  berries,  ij^  cup  sugar,  i 
tablespn.  flour,  /^-J^  cup  water,  2  crusts. 

Stewed  Cranberry— Fill  crust  with  thick,  strained,  stewed 
cranberries,  sweetened.  Put  strips  of  crust  across  the  top  in 
squares  or  diamonds. 

Cmrant — 1  qt.  ripe  red  currants,  i  %.  cup  sugar,  3  or  4  table- 
spns,  flour,  %  teaspn.  salt,  2  crusts.     Bake  well. 

Black  Currant — Black  currants  with  sugar,  flour,  salt  and 
water  make  a  delicious  pie.  They  should  not  be  laid  too  thick 
in  the  plate.  A  layer  of  thin  slices  of  apple  with  the  currants 
is  good. 

Ourrant  and  Baspberry — About  '/^  raspberries  to  ys  currants, 
sugar,  flour,  salt. 

Onrrant  and  Baisin — 2^  cups  red  currants,  i  cup  chopped 
raisins,  %  cup  sugar,  2  tablespns.  flour,  }(  teaspn.  salt. 

Elder-berry — To  each  pint  of  elder-berries  use  I  tablespn. 
lemon  juice,  J4-I  cupsugar,  J^-i  tablespn.  flour,   'A  teaspn,  salt. 

Fig— Hra.  Webster — I  lb.  flgs,  I  cup  sugar,  3  cups  water, 
I  }^-2  tablespns.  lemon  juice,  salt.  Wash  and  grind  or  chop  the 
figs,  pour  the  water  over  them  warm  and  let  stand  over  night; 
add  grated  rind  of  }4  the  lemon  with  other  ingredients.     2  crusts. 

Oreen  Qooeeberry — i  qt.  berries,  \%  cup  sugar,  i  tablespn. 
flour,  j4  teaspn.  salt. 


.b,Coo»^lc 


i$6  THE   LAUREL 

ic  ir  Uinoe  Filling 

3  pts.  chopped  tart  apples  1  cup  strong  cereal  coffee 

3  cups  (lib.)  seeded  raisins,  iH  cup ntce-ftavoied dark 

chopped  molasses 

J^  cup  lemon  juice  i-a  teaspns.  salt 

a  teaspns.  ground  conaoder  seed 

Grind  raisins  through  medium  cutter,  then  the  apples  which 
have  been  pared,  quartered  and  cored;  mix  all  the  ingredients 
and  heat  to  boiling;  put  into  jars  and  seal,  or  keep  in  cool  place 
in  stone  jar.  Add  a  little  water  if  necessary  when  making  pies 
and  do  not  fill  crusts  too  nearly  full.  Make  a  lattice-work  top 
of  strips  of  pastry  sometimes,  instead  of  a  top  crust.  Serve 
warm  as  a  rule.     Follow  this  recipe  exactly. 

We  may  use  a  little  browned  flour  and  water  instead  of  the 
cereal  coffee. 

Green  Tomato  Hinoe-meat 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes  5-6  cups  brown  sugar 

2  lbs.  (6  cups)  raisins  4  cups  strong  cereal  coffee  (or 
ij^  tablespn.  ground  cori-  4  tablespns.  sugar,  caramel- 

ander  seed  ized,  and  water  added) 

5  teaspns.  salt  i  cup  lemon  juice 

Chop  or  grind  the  tomatoes,  drain,  measure  the  juice  and  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  water  in  its  place.  Grind  the  raisins  rather 
coarse,  combine  all  ingredients  except  lemon  juice,  cook  30  m,, 
or  until  done,  add  lemon  juice,  boil  up,  put  into  jars  and  seal  if 
intending  to  keep  for  some  time. 

Crumb  IfJBoe-meat 

I  cup  cracker  or  dry  bread  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

crumbs  i)4  cup  water 

I  cup  molasses  %  teaspn.  ground  coriander 

I  cup  sugar  seed 

I  tablespn.  butter 

Mix,  boil,  put  into  crusts.  Grape  juice  may  be  used  for  part 
of  the  water  with  or  without  the  coriandar  seed. 

Boor  Cream  Minoe—Annle  Carter — i  cup  sour  cream,  I  table- 
spn. Sour,  I  egg,  ^  cup  sugar,  I  cup  seedless  raisins,  steamed; 
two  crusts.     Bake  just  long  enough  to  set  the  egg  and  bake  the 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PIES  357 

crust.  The  crust  need  not  be  quite  as  rich  as  for  fruit  pies.  One 
tablespD.  of  lemon  juice  may  be  used.  May  use  chopped  seeded 
raisins  or  English  currants  in  placeof  seedlessraisins.  Thesugar 
may  be  flavored  with  oil  of  lemon. 

Fresb  Peach— Put  sliced  ripe  peaches  in  baked  crust;  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  or  an  uncooked  me- 
ringue. Serve  at  once.  Cut  pie  before  covering  with  cream  or 
meringue.  Mellow  bananas  may  be  substituted  for  peaches  and 
a  very  delicate  sprinkling  of  sugar  used. 

Prune — Pitted  stewed  prunes  in  quarters,  flour,  salt  and  a  little 
sugar.  Do  not  make  filling  too  thick  as  it  is  solid.  Two  crusts. 
Delicious. 

Prune — Thick  prune  pulp,  slightly  sweetened  or  not,  one  crust, 
strips  of  pastry  over  top  if  convenient.  May  have  meringue 
with  or  without  grated  lemon  rind,  or  may  be  covered  with 
whipped  cream  after  cutting. 

BsisiiL — I  cup  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  water,  %  cup  brown 
sugar,  I  tablespn.  flour.  Mix  sugar  and  flour,  pour  boiling  water 
over,  boil  up  well,  add  raisins,  cool,  bake  between  two  crusts. 
Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring  may  be  used. 

Baisln  Herangue — Add  yolks  of  2  e^s  to  tilling  of  raisin  pie 
with  or  without  i  tablespn.  of  butter  a  moment  before  removing 
from  the  fire;  when  heated,  add  vanijla,  turn  into  baked  crust 
and  meringue  with  the  2  whites  of  eggs.  Milk  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  water  and  white  sugar  instead  of  brown. 

Baisin  I>emon 

lyi  cup  water  4  tablespns.  flour 

H-H  cup  sugar  3  tabiespns.  lemon  juice  and  pulp 

I  level  tablespn.  butter  grated  rind  of  i  lemon 

%  cup  seeded  raisins  i  egg,         salt 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  pour  boiling  water  over,  add  butter  and 
raisins,  cook;  when  raisins  look  plump,  remove  from  fire,  add 
remaining  ingredients  and  bake  between  2  crusts.  The  raisins 
may  be  chopped. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


358  THE   LAUREL 

Rhubarb — r-i  %  qt.  rhubarb,  in  %  in.  pieces,  x%  cup  sugar, 
2%  tablespns.  flour,  %  teaspn.  salt. 

Bhubarb  and  Pineapple 
I  large  pt.  rhubarb 
I  Yi  cup  shredded  pineapple 

X  teaspn.  salt 

Elisabeth's   Ehnbarb — i  cup  chopped  rhubarb,  %  cup  molas- 
ses, J4  cup  chopped  or  ground  raisins.     2  crusts. 
XLhubarb  and  Strawberry 

I  pt.  fresh  rhubarb  2  tablespns.  corn  starch  (or 

I  rounded  pt.  strawberries  3  tablespns.  of  flour) 

1/^  cup  sugar  %  teaspn.  salt 

Canned  Bhubarb 
Scant  quart  canned  rhubarb  2  tablespns.  flour 

lyi  cup  sugar  %  teaspn.  salt 

Strawberr;  Heringua — Put  thin  layer  of  universal    crust    in 
shallow  pudding  dish  or  deep  pie  pan;  when  light  bake;  fill  with 
berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  meringue  with  the  whites  of  2 
or  3  eggs,  and  i  %  tablespn.  sugar. 
Green  Tomato- Harriet 

I  qt.  sliced  tomatoes  3  tablespns.  flour 

I  cup  sugar  /^  teaspn.  salt 

Select  tomatoes  that  are  just  going  to  turn,  or  that  may  be  a 
little  white,  or  that  may  have  a  trifle  of  red  on  one  side,  not 
those  that  are  at  all  ripe,  yet  not  very  green  ones.  Make  pie  in 
pudding  dish  or  shallow  granite  basin  and  do  not  have  the  crust 
come  quite  to  the  top.  Bake  very  slowly,  after  the  first  10  m,, 
for  2  hours.  The  pie  is  not  good  unless  baked  slowly  for  a  long 
time. 

LEHON  PIES 
Lemon  Pie— Qranella  Crost 
4  tablespns.  lemon  juice  5  or  6  tablespns,  flour 

ij4  cup  sugar  yolks  3  or  3  eggs 

ij<3  cup  water  K  teaspn,  salt 

Flavor  sugar  with  oil  of  lemons  (p.  27),  add  fiour,  mixing  well, 
and  pour  the  perfectly  boiling  water  over,  stirring  until  smooth; 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


PIES  359 

boil,  add  the  slightly  beaten  yolks,  lemon  juice  and  salt;  heat 
just  enough  to  set  the  e^.  Turn  the  filling  into  the  baked 
granella  crust  and  spread  quickly  around  the  edges  so  as  to  touch 
the  top  of  the  crust. 

Meringue — Whites  of  2  eggs,  J^  tablespn.  lemon  juice,  2-3 
tablespns.  sugar.  Beat  whites  with  a  little  salt  to  moderately 
stiff  froth,  add  lemon  juice  and  beat  stiff;  fold  in  the  sugar  and 
drop  by  spoonfuls  on  the  hot  pie;  brown  delicately  on  top  grate 
of  oven.  This  filling  may  be  used  in  any  baked  crust. 
if  Lemon  Cake  or  Sponge  Fie 

I  cup  sugar  '2  eggs 

3  tablespns.  flour  salt 

I  cup  milk  4  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

grated  rind 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  fiour;  add  milk  gradually,  stirring  until 
smooth;  pour  over  beaten  yolks  of  e^s,  add  lemon  juice  and 
rind  and  lastly,  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  slow  oven 
30  m.,  or  until  just  done. 

Lemon  Cream  Fie,  large 

2]^  cups  rich  milk  grated  rind  of  i  lemon 

1^  cup  sugar  4^  tablespns.   lemon  juice 

I  'A  cup  flour  2  large  eggs 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  stirring,  boil 
till  very  thick;  add  lemon  juice  and  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  until  well 
mixed  and  eggs  cooked;  spread  in  baked  granella  or  pastry  crust 
and  cover  with  the  meringue. 
Ma'fl  Lemon  Fie 
grated  rind  of  i  lemon  i  cup  thick  sweet  or  sour  cream 

3  tablespns.  lemon  juice  i  cup  sugar 

Mix  cream  and  sugar,  add  lemon  juice  and  rind.     Two  crusts. 

Starohless  Lemon  Fie 

J^  cup  sugar,  flavored  3  tablespns,  lemon  juice 

yolks  4  eggs  in  measuring  cup.     Fill 

whites  of  2  eggs 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


360  THE    LAUREL 

Meringue — 2  beaten  whites,  J^-i  tablespn.  sugar. 
IiemoQ  Fie--Conutaroh 

I  ^  cup  water  l  cup  sugar 

^  cup  sugar  3/^  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

1  tablespn.  butter  lemon  rind 

3/^  tablespns.  corn  starch  yolks  2  or  3  eggs 

whites  2  eggs 
Mix  corn  starch,  the  %  cup  of  sugar  and  butter,  pour  boihng 
water  over,  cook;  remove  from  fire,  add  the  i  cup  of  sugar,  the 
lemon  juice,  grated  rind  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  bake  in  i 
crust,  meringue  with  whites  of  e^s  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  the 
top.  Butter  may  be  omitted. 
Iiemon  Fie  without  egga  or  milk 

%'i  cup  sugar  3  tablespns.  melted  butter 

2  tablespns,  corn  starch  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 
I  cup  hot  water  grated  rind  of  i  lemon 

Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  in  double  boiler,  pour  boiling  water 
over  and  cook  until  thick,  add  butter  and  beat,  then  add  lemon 
juice  and  grated  rind.     Two  crusts. 

Hrs.  Hanoe'a  I.emon  Pie — Pare  1  lemon  thick  enough  to 
remove  all  the  white  part,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  remove  the 
seeds.  Add  i  egg  and  %  cup  of  sugar,  beat  well  and  turn  on 
gradually  i  cup  of  cold  water.     Two  crusts. 

Lemon  Fie  tbat  will  keep  several  days 

I  large  lemon  ^  cup  sugar 

t  egg  !o  cup  molasses 

salt 

Grate  the  rind  and  as  much  of  the  lemon  as  possible,  remove 
seeds,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  chop  pulp  and  skin  very  fine; 
beat  the  e^,  mix  all  the  ingredients  and  bake  between  2  crusts. 

Iiemon  Pie  with  Bread 

3  slices  bread  ^  in.  thick  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 
I  cup  boiling  water  grated  rind  of  lemon 

I  level  tablespn.  butter  i  scant  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 
The  slices  should  be  from  a  medium  sized,  brick  shaped  loaf 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


of  bread.     Cut  off  the  crusts  and  pour  boiling  water  over;  add 
butter  and  beat  with  a  fork  until  the  bread  is  smooth;  then  com- 
bine with  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  the  sugar  and  beaten 
yolks.     Bake  in  i  crust  and  meringue  with  whites  of  eggs. 
Lemon  Custard  Fie 
4  eggs  flavoring 

I  cup  sugar  ifi  cup  rich  milk 

4  tablespns.  lemon  juice  salt 

Leave  out  2  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  the  remainder  with  sugar, 
add  lemon  juice  and  flavoring,  salt  and  milk.  Bake  slowly  until 
just  set,  no  longer.     Meringue. 

Orange  Pie 

5  tablespns.  sugar  juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges 
I  tablespn.  butter  grated  rind  of  i  orange 

3  eggs  juice  of  i  lemon 

grated  rind  of  /4  lemon 

Add  beaten  whites  last.     May  omit  butter. 
Orange  Cnatard  Fie 

rind  of  i  and  juice  of  2  oranges  4  tablespns.  sugar 

4  eggs  I  pt.  rich  milk 

Leave  out  2  whites  for  meringue. 

CBEAU  PISS 
Cream— Par  exoellenoe — 1}4  pt.  rich  milk,  %  cup  flour  laid 
lightly  in  cup,  scant  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  salt,  i  teaspn.  vanilla. 
Mix  flour,  salt  and  sugar,  put  into  oiled  saucepan,  pour  boiling 
milk  over,  stirring  until  smooth,  boil,  add  yolks  of  eg^,  just  heat, 
add  vanilla,  turn  into  baked  granella  or  pastry  crust.  Meringue. 
With  some  brands  of  pastry  Sour,  a  scant  measure  only  will  be 
required.  Thin  slices  of  banana  may  be  laid  on  the  baked  crust 
before  the  filling  is  put  in,  for  banana  flavor, 

Coooanut  Cream— Famous — Same  as  cream  pie  with  ^  cup 
sugar  only  and  about  %  cup  desiccated  cocoanut.  (If  cocoanut 
is  fresh  grated,  use  i  cup  sugar.)  Add  cocoanut  just  before  put- 
ting filling  into  crust,    reserving   enough   to  sprinkle  the  top  of 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


362  THE   LAUREL 

the  meringue  before  baking.  Do  not  brown  the  meringue,  just 
heat  it  until  it  puffs  up  and  possibly  tints  the  tips  of  the  cocoa- 
nut. 

Hnt  Cream — Use  chopped  hickory  or  other  nuts  in  place  of 
cocoanut  in  Cocoanut  Cream  Pie. 

'A' Farms  Cream — Scant  pt.  rich  milk,  i  tablespn.  Hecker's, 
ij^  tablespn.  Am.  Cereal  Co's  farina,  %  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (3 
e^s  enough  for  2  pies),  I  teaspn.  vanilla.  Heat  milk  and  sugar 
to  boiling,  sift  in  farina  and  cook  for  ^-1  hour  in  double  boiler; 
add  slightly  beaten  yolks  of  e^s,  just  heat  through,  remove  from 
fire,  add  flavoring,  turn  into  baked  granella  or  pastry  crust. 
Meringue.  Thin  slices  of  banana  may  be  used  to  flavor  this  pie 
also  but  it  is  delicious  with  no  flavoring.  Farina  may  be  cooked 
45  m.  only,  yolks  and  flavoring  added  and  the  filling  be  baked 
in  the  crust. 

Cream  of  Hioe 

t  qt.  rich  milk  /^  cup  sugar 

yi  cup  rice  pinch  of  salt 

Cook  all  together  until  thick  and  creamy.  Turn  into  baked 
crust,  brown  delicately  over  the  top,  cool. 

Better  the  second  day.     Do  not  use  with  granella  crust. 

Caramel  Cream — Steep  U-^i  cup  cereal  coffee  in  milk  of 
cream  pie,  in  double  boiler  for  15m.,  strain  through  2  thick- 
nesses of  cheese  cloth,  add  milk  or  cream  to  make  lj4  pt.  Fin- 
ish the  same  as  cream  pie.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

The  pie  may  be  made  with  not  very  rich  milk  and  covered, 
after  cutting,  with  flavored,  sweetened,  whipped  cream  instead 
of  being  meringued. 

Tomato  Cream—Fine 

I H  cup  very  rich  milk  f'i  cup  flour 

1%  cup  strained  tomato  salt 

I  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  then  boiling  to- 
mato, boil  up,  add  salt  and  yolks  of  e^s,  cook,  add  vanilla  and 


t,zcob,CjOO»^lc 


put  in  baked  crust.     Meringue.      Use  a  little  more  flour  when 
pie  is  to  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  made. 
H7  Hother'a 

I  pt.  Ihick  cream  i  tablespn.  flour 

yi-^  cup  sugar  i  egg 

Mix  and  bake  in  i  crust;  serve  in  very  small  pieces.    No  fla- 
voring but  that  of  the  cream  is  required  and  no  meringue  is 
necessary  as  the  cream  gives  a  beautiful  finish  to  the  top  of 
the  pie. 
Farohed  Com  Cream 

^Vi  cups  rich  milk  M  cup  sugar 

H    cup  patched  corn  meal  Salt 

3  eggs 
Soak  corn  meal  in  milk  i  hour,   cook  until  thickened;  add 
salt,  and  eggs  beaten  with  sugar.    Put  into  crust  and  bake.   One 
white  may  be  beaten  to  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  last,  and  if 
wished,  a  little  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top. 
Cream~8oar 
I  egg  salt 

iH  tablespn.  flour  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

/4  cup  sugar  i  pt,  thick  sour  cream 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  turn  beaten  egg  over  and  stir  in 
cream   gradually;   add  vanilla   and    turn    into    crust;   bake   in 
moderate   oven.     If  preferred,    i   more   e^  may  be  used,   the 
white  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  last. 
Bora  Cream 
2}4  cups  sour  cream  salt 

2j^-3  tablespns.  flour  3  eggs 

I  cup  sugar  vanilla,  almond,  rose  or  lemon 

Bringcream  just  to  boilingand  pour  over  sugar  and  flour  which 
have  been  mixed  tc^ether;  boil  up,  add  yolks  of  e^s,  heat  to 
thicken  but  do  not  boil;   add    flavoring,    turn  into   baked  crust. 
Meringue  with  whites  of  eggs. 
White  Oream 

whites  of  3  eggs  J^-i  cup  sugar 

3  level  tablespns.  flour         flavoring       i  pt.  cream 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


364  THE    LAUREL 

Beat  whites  with  sugar,  add  other  ingredients  which  have  been 
mixed  ti^ether;  bake  in  i  crust, 

Cnatard  Pi6 — 2%  cups  rich  milk,  J^  cup  sugar,  3  e^s,  salt. 
Dusting  of  coriander  or  anise,  or  any  suitable  flavoring. 

Custard  Pie  that  Uakes  Its  Own  Crust — i  %  pt.  rich  milk  (or 
scant  1%  pt,  skimmed  milk  and  \'/i  tablespn.  of  butter),  }i~% 
cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  4  tablespns.  flour,  salt;  almond,  lemon  or  cori- 
ander flavoring.  Mix  ingredients,  stirring  flour  with  milk  and 
pour  into  an  oiled  pie  pan.     Bake  very  slowly. 

The  flour  will  settle  to  the  bottom  and  form  a  delicate  crust. 

Use  r  more  egg,  mix  ingredients  with  2  whole  eggs  and  2  yolks 
more,  then  add  the  2  whites  stiffly-beaten,  at  the  last.  This 
makes  a  more  attractive  pie. 

Ciutard  Pie  Withont  Milk — 4  e^s,  3  or  4  tablespns.  sugar, 
salt,  I  pt.  boiling  water,  flavoring.  Beat  2  whole  eggs  and  2 
more  yolks  with  sugar  and  salt,  pour  boiling  water  over  gradually, 
stirring,  pourintocrust,  dust  with  coriander,  bake;  meringue  with 
whites  of  3  e^s.  Vanilla,  lemon  or  orange  flavoring  may  be 
used  in  the  pie.  The  whites  may  be  beaten  stiff  and  stirred 
into  the  filling  before  baking  instead  of  adding  the  meringue. 

Bioe  Pie 

I  g'ood  pint  rich  milk  2  eggs 

I  cup  well  cooked  rice  4.  tablespns.  sugar 

vanilla,  or  no  flavor 

Dust  with  coriander  sometimes.      May  beat  eggs  separate  and 

add  whites  last.     One  crust. 

Crumb  Pie 
Line  the  pan  with  crust,  put  into  it  a  large  pint  of  rather  dry 
bread  crumbs  (cracker  crumbs  may  be  used)  and  turn  over  them 
sweetened,  thin  cream  to  fill  the  crust.     Bake.     Serve  warm  or 
cold.     Any  desired  flavor  may  be  used. 

i(  Crumb  Pie  Ho.  2 
I  cup  tine  dry  breadcrumbs  i  egg,     1%  cups  milk 

%  cup  sugar  ground  coriander  seed 

t  tablespn.  flour  or  other  flavoring 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


PIES  365 

Mix  crumbs,  sugar  and  flour,  add  milk  to  beaten  eggand  pour 
over  dry  ingredients,  stirring,  turn  into  crust,  dust  with  coriander, 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Lemon  orvanillaflavoringmay  be  used 
in  the  pie  but  they  do  not  compare  with  the  dusting  of  ground 
coriander  seed. 

Bttttermilk  Fie.     Excellent 
i/^  pt.  buttermilk  2  eggs 

H-  cup  sugar  salt 

scant  }4  cup  flour  lemon  and  rose  flavor 

Mix  lemon  flavored  sugar  with  flour,  heat  buttermilk  quickly 

in  double  boiler  and  pour  over  the  mixture,  boil  up  well,  add 

yolks  of  eggs,  heat  to  cook  eggs  but  do  not  boil,  add  salt,  turn 

into  baked  crust,  cover  with  meringue  flavored  with  rose. 

Buttermilk  Pie  No.  2 

H  cup  sugar  flavored  2H  tablespns.  (Xcup)  flour 

2  eggs         [with  lemon  i  H  pt.  buttermilk,         salt 

Mix,  bake  in  crust  J4  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Flavor 
meringue  with  orange. 

Sour  Ullk  Me-Uook  Lemon 

3  eggs  2/^  cups  sour  milk 
I  cup  sugar  lemon  flavor 

iH  tablespn.  corn  starch  salt 

Mix,  leaving  out  whites  of  eggs,  bake,  meringue. 
Boor  Hilk  Pie  witit  Baiains 
I  cup  chopped  raisins  i  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespn.  butter 

2  eggs  flavoring  If  desired 

2  crusts 

May  use  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon  instead  of  butter. 
Sweet  Potato  Pie 
I  cup  mashed  sweet  potato        yolks  of  2  eggs 
H  cup  sugar  2  cups  rich  milk 

salt 
Mix  all  with  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  bake  slowly,  flavor  meringue 
of  whites  of  eggs  with  vanilla. 


.b,Coot^lc 


366  THE   LAUREL     , 

SquBslL  Pies.  Two  large 

2/4  cups  squash,  not  very  dry  2  eggs 

I  scant  cup  sugar  i  qt.  rich  milk 

3  tablespns.  flour  i}i  teaspn.  vanilla 

salt  a  few  drops  of  almond  flavor 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and  stir  into  squash.  Break  eggs  in 
and  beat  a  little,  add  milk  gradually,  then  flavoring,  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

With  3  cups  of  squash  use  a  little  less  flour.  For  variety, 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  only,  or  with  neither  and  stir  in  a 
little  cocoanut,  sprinkling  a  little  over  the  top. 

Bro.  Comlorth'B  Sqoaali  and  Sweet  Potato  Fie 
2  eggs,  }4  cup  sugar,  i  pt.  dry  mashed  squash  and  sweet  potato 
{%  potato,  %  squash),  I  qt.  milk,  salt.     No  other  flavor. 
Ziemon  Squaah  Fie 
1^4  cup  nice  dry  squash  H  teaspn.  vanilla 

ayi  cups  water  or  aJ4  2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

of  milk  j'A-tH  tablespn.  flour 

M-i  scant  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

salt  3-5  drops  lemon  extract 

Mix  as  usual,  reserving  the  lemon  extract  and  white  of  i  e^  for 
the  meringue.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  and  meringue  with  the 
white  of  egg  beaten  not  very  stiff  with  l-l  J4 tablespn.  sugar  and 
the  lemon  extract.  (A  thick  meringue  seems  out  of  place  on  a 
squash  pie.)  If  preferred.  I  or  2  of  the  whites  may  be  beaten 
stiff,  flavored  and  stirred  into  the  pie  before  it  is  baked.  J4-^ 
cup  soup  cracker  crumbs  may  be  used  instead  of  e^s. 

Pumpkin  Pies 

Suggestions — Select  a  dark,  rich-colored  pumpkin  with  deep 
indentations  and  thick  meat.  Some  of  the  small  si^r  pumpkins 
are  very  nice. 

Good  pies  cannot  be  made  out  of  coarsegrained,  watery  pump- 
kins. 

Baked  pumpkin  makes  richer  pies  than  stewed,  with  less  work. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


FIES  367 

To  bake,  cut  or  saw  a  pumpkin  into  halves,  and  if  large,  cut  into 
quarters;  place  on  a  lai^e  tin  and  turn  another  over  it;  bake 
until  tender. 

To  boil,  cut  in  stri[>5,  remove  fibrous  portion  from  center,  cut 
in  pieces  and  put  over  the  fire  in  some  thick-bottomed  utensil, 
either  copper,  re-tinned,  or  iron;  add  just  enough  water  to  keep 
it  from  burning  and  simmer  slowly,  stirring  often,  for  several 
hours  until  the  pumpkin  becomes  a  rich  brown  and  is  well  dried 
out.     Rub  through  colander  while  hot. 

Pumpkin  may  be  steamed  in  strips,  unpeeled,  but  is  not  so  rich. 

The  question  of  peeling  is  an  open  one;  many  claim  that  the 
rind  gives  a  richer  flavor  to  the  pies  as  well  as  a  darker  color, 
while  others  fear  it  may  give  a  strong  flavor. 

"The  real  genuine  old-fashioned  golden-brown  pumpkin  pie 
our  great^jrandmothers  prided  themselves  on"  is  made  without 
eggs- 
Long,  slow  baking  is  necessary  to  the  perfection  of  pumpkin 
pies. 

Cover  crust  of  pies  with  a  circle  of  paper  if  in  danger  of  be- 
coming too  brown. 

Meringued  patty  pan  pies  or  tartlets  are  very  dainty  and  nice. 

The  addition  of  %  cup  of  date  pulp  {%  cup  of  dates  steamed 
and  rubbed  through  the  colander)  to  the  filling  for  each  pie  gives 
a  more  old-fashioned  flavor,  without  harmful  condiments. 

Fnmpbin  Pies  Without  Egg8~3  piea 
rK  qt.  rich,  dark,  dry  pump-      i  teaspn.  salt 
3  pts.  rich  milk  [kin         ij4  tablespn.  browned  flour  No.  3 

H  cup  siig»r  or   3-6  tablespns,  browned  flour 

yi  cup  molasses  No.  2 

Bake  in  not  too  rich  crust  in  moderate  oven  i  %  hour.  Use  I 
cupful  more  of  pumpkin  if  not  dry,  and  if  necessary,  \%  level 
tablespn.  of  white  flour. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


368  THE    LAUREL 

Pompkin  Pies  with  Egga»S  very  lai^e  plea 

1  qt.  rich  dark  dry  pumpkin     or  H  cup  sugar  and  K  cup  molasses 

2  qts.  milk  I  teaspu.  salt 

6  eggs  1%  tablespn,  browned  flour  No.  3 

i-i  J^  cup  sugar  or  3-6tablespns.  browned  flour  No.  3 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separate;  bake  slowly  until  firm 
in  center.  Use  1%  qt.  of  pumpkin  if  not  dry,  and  i  Ji  qt.  only 
of  milk.     May  use  a  little  less  pumpkin  when  adding  dates. 

ir  One  Pampkin  Fie 
I H  cup  moderately  dry  pumpkin  K  cup  sugar 

J4  tablespn.  browned  flour  No.  3,  or  i  tablespn.  molasses 

1-2  tablespns.  browned  flour  No.  2  J4  level  teaspn.  salt 

/^  level  tablespn.  white  flour  3^  cups  milk 

1  egg 
Bake  in  moderate  oven,      ji  nice  winter  squash  improves  the 

pie. 

One  recipe  says  %  teaspn.  ground  coriander  seed.     Some  of 

the  best  pies  have  no  added  flavoring. 

I  teaspn.  of  butter  or  I  or  2  tablespns.  of  thick  cream  in  the 

tilling  will  give  a  gloss  to  the  surface. 

Some  prefer  flour,  a  little  granella  or  a  few  zwieback  crumbs 

to  e^s,  for  thickening  when  the  pumpkin  is  not  very  thick. 

Orated  Pumpkin  Fie 

Grate  pumpkin  without  peeling.  If  moist,  put  into  a  piece  of 
cheese  cloth  and  squeeze  out  the  water;  for  each  pie  take: 

1  cup  pumpkin  I  teaspn.  ground  coriander, 

2  eggs  or  ji  level  teaspn.  ground 

3  tablespns.  molasses  anise  seed,  or  i  teaspn.  va- 
I  or  2  tablespns.  sugar  nilla,  or  no  flavoring 
pinch  of  salt  small  piece  of  butter 

}i  tablespn.  browned  flour         2  tablespns.  cracker  or  zwie- 
No.  3  back  crumbs 

or  1-2  of  No.  2  I  J4-2  cups  milk 

Sprinkle  top  with  cocoanut  or  not.     Bake  thoroughly. 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


PIES 

Carrot  Fie 
I H  cup  mashed  cooked  carrot 
}i  tablespn.  browned  flour  No.  3 
or  1-3  tablespns.  browned  flour  No.  2 
I  level  tablespn.  white  flour 
yi  cup  sugar 


I  tablespn,  molasses 
j4  level  teaspn.  salt 
2^  cups  milk 


Or,  use  3  tablespns.  only  of  carrot,  omit  browned  flour  and 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Tamip  Fie 
1^-3  cups  mashed  turnip  2  eggs  (or  i  egg  and  scant  X  cup 

H-H  cup  brown  sugar  of  granelta) 

2  tablespns.  molasses  }4-i  tablespn.  browned  flour  No,  3 

I  tablespn.  melted  butter  2  teaspns.  ground  coriander  seed 

2  cups  milk         salt 

The  turnip  should  be  the  sweet  Swedish  turnip. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


CASES 

The  fact  that  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  are  the  ingredients  of 
the  best  baking  powders  is  well  understood. 

Dr.  Lillis  Wood  Starr  says:  "Cream  of  tartar  belongs  to  the 
same  class  with  soda.  Soda  is  bi-carbonate  of  sodium;  cream  of 
tartar  is  bi-tartrate  of  potassium.  Sodium,  potassium  and  cal- 
cium (lime)  all  belong  to  the  same  group  of  metals  and  are  inju- 
rious to  the  tissues  of  our  bodies." 

Dr.  Lauretta  Kress — "Cream  of  tartar  or  Potassium  Bi-tartrate 
is  a  gastro-intestinal  irritant  like  soda.  By  combining  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda,  we  have  Rochelle  salts.  If  needed  as  a  cathar- 
tic, they  are  better  given  as  such  on  an  empty  stomach;  then 
the  system  quickly  gets  rid  of  them.  If  taken  in  food  they  are 
retained  longer  and  become  more  irritating," 

"Sugar  when  largely  used  is  more  injurious  than  meat." 

Cake  at  its  best  is  not  to  be  recommended,  but  for  those  who 
have  not  yet  discarded  it,  we  give  a  variety  of  recipes  for  cakes 
without  baking  powder  or  soda:  there  are  some,  also,  without 
eggs. 

When  a  few  more  e^s  are  used  in  a  cake  than  would  be  re- 
quired with  chemicals,  remember  that  less  of  the  nitrogenous 
is  necessary  in  other  dishes:  also,  that  the  health  of  your 
family  is  of  the  first  importance  and  it  would  be  better  not  to 
give  them  any  cake  at  all  than  that  which  will  poison  their 
systems, 

Snggeatlotis 

Use  pastry  flour  for  alt  cakes;  and  since  different  brands  even 
of  pastry  flour  differ,  it  is  best  to  use  the  same  brand  when  you 
find  a  good  one  and  become  accustomed  to  it. 

Sift  flour  once  before  measuring;  and  from  3-5  times  for  angel 
C370] 


.b,Coo»^lc 


CAKES  3^1 

and  other  sponge  cakes  after  measuring.  The  best  way  to  sift 
flour  several  times  is  to  lay  down  two  pieces  of  large  letter  or 
Manila  paper  and  to  sift  the  flour  first  on  to  one  and  then 
on  to  the  other. 

All  measurements  have  the  sifted  flour  laid  lightly  into  the 
cup  with  a  spoon.  If  the  cup  is  shaken  or  knocked  on  the  side 
with  the  spoon  there  will  be  too  much  flour. 

Skimmed  milk  and  oil  may  be  used  in  cakes  and  the  cream 
saved  for  other  purposes. 

At  great  altitude,  more  flour  and  less  shortening  and  sugar  will 
be  required  in  cakes. 

In  recipes  calling  for  cream  of  tarter,  use  lemon  juice  in  the 
proportion  of  i  tablespn.  or  more  to  each  teaspoon  of  cream  of 
tartar.  A  larger  quantity  of  lemon  juice  makes  the  cake  more 
tender, 

2  whites  of  e^s  are  said  to  equal  i  rounded  teaspn.  of  baking 
powder,  for  lightness. 

Boil  molasses  or  syrup  before  using  in  cakes. 

Half  oil  instead  of  all  butter  may  be  used  in  nearly  all  cakes, 
and  in  some  cases,  all  oil  is  better.     Use  salt  with  oil. 

It  is  usually  thought  important  to  cream  butter  and  sugar  well 
together,  but  one  professional  cake-maker  totd  me  that  cakes 
were  lighter  when  the  butter  and  sugar  were  just  mixed. 

Always  add  a  little  of  the  flour  for  cakes  to  the  creamed  but- 
ter or  sugar  and  butter,  before  adding  eggs,  milk  or  other  liquids. 

Saffron  is  used  for  both  color  and  flavor:  a  very  small  quantity 
only,  is  required  of  the  imported  for  a  deep  color. 

For  variety,  thin  slices  of  sweet  prunes  or  dates  are  nice  in 
place  of  other  fruits  in  cakes. 

Round  tube  pans  bake  cake  the  most  evenly,  Turk's  head 
molds  being  the  best  of  all. 

Do  not  oil  the  tins,  for  cakes  without  shortening. 


.b,Goo<^lc 


372  THE   LAUREL 

For  cakes  with  shortening,  oil  the  tios  aod  sprinkle  flour  over, 
shaking  off  all  flour  that  is  loose;  or,  line  tins  with  well  oiled 
paper. 

Some  recommend  dipping  angel  cake  pans  intocold  water  and 
filling  while  wet;  then  the  cake  falls  out  white  when  cold,  leav- 
ing the  crust  sticking  to  the  mold. 

Always  beat  whites  of  e^s  on  a  platter  or  in  a  large  cake  bowl 
or  "bombe"  with  a  whip,  not  with  a  revolving  beater. 

Chop  and  fold,  never  stir,  the  whites  into  cake,  theflouralso. 

Have  all  ingredients  and  utensils  for  sponge  cake  cold,  and  if 
possible,  put  it  together  in  a  cold  room. 

For  sponge  cakes,  follow  directions  for  putting  nut  and  citron 
cake  together,  or  the  hot  water  way  following  sponge  layer  cake. 

Bake  sponge  cakes  very  slowly  and  evenly  in  an  oven  that 
bakes  well  from  the  bottom.  They  will  retain  their  lightness 
better  if  carefully  inverted  in  the  tin  after  baking  and  left  in 
that  position  until  cool. 

Bake  cakes  with  shortening  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cool  all  cakes  slowly.  One  colored  cook  told  me  that  she 
always  set  her  cakes  on  the  stove  hearth  for  a  little  while  after 
taking  them  out  of  the  oven.  Of  course  they  should  be  handled 
carefully. 

Set  warm  layer  and  other  cakes  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold 
water  and  they  will  quickly  loosen  from  the  pan. 

Loaf  or  layer  cakes  may  be  set  in  ice  box  in  tins  for  2  hrs. 
before  baking. 

3  or  4  rose  geranium  leaves  laid  in  the  bottom  of  the  tin  be- 
fore the  batter  is  poured  in  will  flavor  cake  with  rose,  or  the 
leaves  may  be  laid  between  layers  after  baking,  while  cooling. 
If  the  loaf  is  one  that  will  bear  removing  from  the  tin  while 
warm,  lay  it  on  some  of  the  leaves. 

Cakes  may  be  steamed  instead  of  baked— sponge  cakes  i  hour, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CAKES  373 

fruitcakes  longer.  One  recipe  for  fruit  cake  says,  steam 4  hours 
and  bake  1  hour.     Use  your  judgment. 

Sponge  cakes— angel  and  others,  are  supposed  to  be  broken 
apart  with  2  forks,  not  cut. 

If  loaves  of  cake  that  are  to  be  covered  with  whipped  cream 
are  cut  before  the  cream  is  put  on,  the  cake  will  look  smooth 
and  nice  and  the  pieces  will  come  out  more  neatly. 

Cakes  made  with  yeast  require  to  be  kept  a  little  warmer  than 
bread  (unless  you  keep  bread  too  warm),  and  flour,  fruit  and  all 
ingredients  should  be  warm  when  added. 

it  Nat  and  Citron  Cake 
3  large  or  4  small  eggs  f3-H  cup  Brazil  nut,  almond, 

I  scant  cup  granulated  sugar  pecan  or  shell-bark  meal 

I  tablespn.  lemon  juice  ^  cup  (/^  lb.)  fine  chopped  or 

I  tablespn.  ffce  water  ground  citron 

1  cup  pastry  flour         salt 

Have  all  the  ingredients  as  nearly  ice  cold  as  possible;  sift  the 
sugar,  sift  the  flour  twice  and  leave  it  in  the  sifter;  beat  the  yolks 
of  the  e^s  in  a  cake  bowl  with  a  revolving  egg-beater  (a  large 
one  if  you  have  it),  adding  sugar  gradually.  Whenstift,  add  part 
of  the  water  and  more  sugar;  beat,  add  more  water,  sugar  and 
half  the  lemon  juice,  beating,  until  all  the  sugar  is  in. 

Stir  into  this  mixture  half  the  nut  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
the  citron.  Rest  the  egg  beater  on  a  quart  measure  (or  some 
dish  of  the  required  height)  by  the  side  of  the  bowl,  and  let  it 
drain  into  the  bowl  while  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  It 
will  drain  much  cleaner  than  it  could  be  scraped,  besides  saving 
the  time.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  moderately  stiff 
froth,  add  the  remaining  half  tablespn.  of  lemon  juice  and  whip 
till  dry  and  feathery;  let  them  stand  a  moment,  then  slide  onto 
the  yolk  mixture;  sprinkle  part  of  the  nut  meal  over  them  and 
sift  on  a  Httle  flour;  chop  in  lightly,  dipping  from  the  bottom 
with  a  large  thin  spoon  three  times;  add  more  meal  and  flour; 
chop;  continue  this  until  the  flour  is  all  in.     Take  care  not  to 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


374  THE   LAUREL 

mix  too  much;  the  mixture  must  not  get  soft.  Put  into  pan  at 
once  and  bake  slowly  until  the  cake  stops  singing,  or  does  not 
stick  to  a  broom  splint.  Bake  r-r>^  hours,  according  to  the 
heat  of  the  oven.  The  fine  particles  of  citron  give  an  unusually 
delightful  flavor  to  the  cake.  Preserved  orange  peel,  ground, 
may  be  used  sometimes;  or  tine  cut  raisins  or  dried  blueberries. 

if  JoUa's  Birthday  CaJce 

2  cups  sugar  S  eggs 

H-i  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

flavoring 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  flavoring  and  a  little  of  the  flour, 

then  the  beaten  yolks;  beat  well.     Slide  the  stiffly-beaten  whites 

on  to  this  mixture,  sift  flour  over  gradually  and  chop  togetheras 

for  nut  and  citron  cake;   bake   in    moderate  oven  in  3  medium 

sized  layers;  sift   a   little  sugar  over  one  layer -before  baking, 

sometimes,  to  make  a  crust  for  the  top.     If  possible,  set  in  ice 

box  for  an  hour  before  baking. 

Patty  Oakes 
Use  K"/4  cup  of  milk  and  2j4-2j^  cups  of  flour  in  preced- 
ing recipe,  and  bake  in  patty  pans. 

Coooannt  Loaf  or  Layer  Cake 
2  cups  sugar  2  cups  fine  grated  or  ground  cocoanut 

4  level  tablespns.  butter     2  teaspns.  lemon  juice 

5  eggs  1-2  teaspns.  vanilla  if  desired 

2  cups  flour 
Put  together  the  same  as  "Julia's  Birthday  Cake, "  let  stand  on 
ice  for  2  hours,  or  bake  at  once  in  loaf  or  layers. 

If  baked  in  layers,  use  Washington  pie  filling  with  it. 

Bloh  Loaf  Cake 

I  cup  butter  5  eggs 

i?^  cup  granulated  sugar  2-2»  cups  flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  work  ver)'  light;  add  i  e^  at  a 
time  and  stir  only  until  no  yolk  can  be  seen;  mix  in  flour,  turn 
into  paper-lined  pan  and  set  in  ice  box  for  2  hours.  Bake  in 
slow  oven  about  an  hour,  or  until  the  cake  stops  singing. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


Bioe  Floor  Cake 
H  cup  butter  2?^  cups  rice  flour 

2  scant  cups  sugar  6  eggs 

2-3  tablespns.  lemon  juice  with  grated  rind 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  a  little  of  the  flour  and  beaten  yolks 
with  half  the  juice  and  all  the  rind  of  lemon. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  a  little  salt,  adding  the  remainder  of 
the  lemon  juice  when  half  beaten;  slip  on  to  cake  batter,  sift 
flour  over  gradually,  and  fold  all  lightly  together.     Put  into  pan 
to  depth  of  not  over  2  in.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Fruit  and  Nut  Cake.    TTnsurpasaed 
iM  cup  sugar  3  cups  (i  lb.)  currants 

M  cup  butter  i}4  cup  (/4  lb.)  ground  citron 

I  ^  cup  flour  large  H  cup  blanched  almonds,  ground 

6  eggs  K-J^  teaspn.  extract  rose,  according 

4  cups  dyi  lb.)  seeded  raisins  [to  strength 

(rose  leaves  in  their  season) 

Mix  fruit  with  part  of  the  flour,  add  nuts;  cream  butter  with 
a  little  of  the  flour;  beat  together  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs 
until  very  light  andaddwithextractto  creamed  butter;  beat  well; 
whip  whites  of  e^s  with  pinch  of  salt  to  stiff  froth,  add  fruit  and 
nuts  to  yolk  mixture,  chop  in  beaten  whites  and  remainder  of 
flour;  bake  in  well  oiled  tin  \%-2%  hrs.  in  moderate  and  slow 
oven;  cover  when  necessary. 

The  cake  may  be  steamed  3-4  hrs.  and  baked  %-\  hr. 
This  cake  will  keep  a  long  time  with  care  and  is  unusually 
desirable.     3  times  the  quantity  given  will  make  4  medium  sized 
loaves. 

Com  Staroh  Cake 
6  eggs  iK  cup  flour 

J4  cup  butter  (part  oil)        •  3  tablespns.  corn  starch 

ij^  cup  sugar  flavoring 

Beat  yolks  with  half  the  sugar  and  cream  butter  with  the 
other  half;  mix,  beat.  (Part  of  the  flour  and  corn  starch  may 
be  added  to  the  butter  and  sugar.)  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff, 
slide  on  to  the  mixture,   add  flour  and  corn  starch  (which  have 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


C376] 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


been  sifted  together)  gradually,  chopping  and  folding  in  with  the 
whites;  bake  in  moderate  oven.     Two  thick  round  layers. 

•K  BUver  Cake 
I  lb.  (2  cups  and  3  tablespns. )  sugar    rose  flavor 
H  lb.  i^^-^H  cups)  flour  i^  cup  citron  or  prunes 

6  oz.  (H  cup  soft)  butter  in  slices 

whites  of  14  eggs 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flavoring,  beaten  whites  and  flour, 
lay  slices  of  fruit  in  and  on  top  of  cake.     One  very  large  square, 
or  two  rather  small  round  loaves. 

it  Bootoh  Short  Bread— no  eggs 
}i  cup  butter  I  teaspn.  caraway  seed  or  not 

/4  cup  granulated  or  brown,  or       2  cups  flour 
slightly  rounded  ^  cup 
powdered  sugar 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  flour  mixed,  seeds  also  if  used. 
A  Uttle  of  the  flour  may  be  saved  for  rolling. 

Roll  to  about  I  in.  thick,  of  the  shape  to  fit  your  tin;  crinkle 
the  edges,  press  them  with  a  fork  or  cut  with  pastry  jagger,  slide 
on  to  tin,  prick  lightly  with  fork  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  i 
hour;  or,  roll  ^  in.  thick  and  bake  }i  hour  only.  The  cake  is 
sometimes  creased  in  squares  before  baking,  or  the  dough  may 
be  cut  in  round  cakes  and  the  edges  crinkled. 

The  cake  is  better  with  oil  and  ^  teaspn.  of  salt  in  place  of 
butter.  One  cup  of  sugar  is  sometimes  used  with  %  cup  of  but- 
ter or  oil,  and  again,  r  cup  of  butter  or  oil  with  j4  cup  of  sugar, 
but  the  cake  is  very  nice  with  the  proportions  given.  By 
some,  brown  sugar  is  considered  most  suitable. 
Osrman  Light  Cake 

iH  cup  butter  or  i^  cup  oil  H  cup  almonds,  blanched  and 

iX  cup  granulated  sugar  4.  eggs  [chopped 

3^-3^  cups  flour  grated  orange  rind 

ground  coriander  seed 

Cream  butter  with  a  little  flour,  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating,  add  sugar  (except  a  little  for  the  top),   rind  and  flour; 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


378  THE   LAUREL 

spread  thin  in  oiled  pans,  sprinkle  with  almonds,  coriander  and 
sugar,  bake  in  moderate  oven,  cut  in  squares  while  hot,  leave  in 
pan  to  cool. 

ir  BiBter  Elliott's  Plain  Iioaf  Cake  and  Cookies 
J4  cup  oil  4K  cups  flour 

i>^  cup  sugar  i  cup  milk 

yolks  2  eggs  salt,     flavoring 

whites  3  eggs 
Cream  oil  and  sugar,  add  a  little  flour,  yolks  of  eggs,  salt  and 
flavoring,  then  milk  and  flour  alternately;  beat  well  and  fold  in 
the  stiff  whites  of  eggs.  Chill,  or  bake  at  once  thoroughly,  in 
I  large  or  2  small  loaves  in  moderate  oven  that  bakes  well  from 
the  bottom. 

For  cookies,  use  2  whites  of  eggs  only  and  make  dough  stiff 
enough  to  roll. 

Molasses  Cake 
4  large  eggs  i  teaspn.  lemon  juice 

3  level  tablespns.  butter  i  J4  teaspn.  grated  orange  peel 
J4  cup  molasses                                     i}^  tablespn.  browned  flour 
H  cup  sugar,  brown  or  white          i  cup  pastry  flour 

Beat  eggs  and  lemon  juice  in  bowl  set  in  boiling  water,  add 
sugar,  then  boiling  molasses,  with  butter  and  orange  peel,  and 
lastly  the  flour. 

Uolasses  Sugar  Cakes 

4  eggs  H  teaspn.  lemon  extract 
yi  cup(4>^  level  tablespns.)  butter     i  cup  pastry  flour 

yi  cup  molasses  sugar  iH  tablespn,  browned  flour 

I  teaspn.  lemon  juice 
Mix  butter  and  sugar  and  add  to  beaten  yolks,  beating  well; 
slide  on  to  this  the  whites  beaten  with  salt  and  lemon  juice, 
then  sift  over  gradually  the  two  flours  mixed,  chopping  and  fold- 
ing them  in  with  the  whites.     Bake  in  small  cakes  in  moderate 
oven  1 5-20  m.     Use  grated  maple  sugar  for  maple  cakes. 
it  Uolasses  Bread  or  Hard  MolasseH  Cake—no  eggB 
iH  qt.  {7  cups)  flour  I  cup  molasses 

1  cup  butter  (part  oil)  i  teaspn.  groundanise  seed 

iK  cup  pressed  down,  medium         salt 
.    brown  sugar 


ovGoo<^lc 


CAKES  379 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  anise  and  molasses,  beat  well  and 
add  flour;  turn  mixture  out  on  floured  board,  mold  up  and 
put  into  flat  tins  about  l  in.  deep,  wash  over  with  milk  and  bake 
in  a  very  slow  oven. 

When  done,  wrap  or  cover  with  damp  cloths  and  keep  at  least 
4  days  before  using.  If  necessary,  moisten  the  cloths  again, 
and  perhaps  again.  The  cakes  will  be  hard  and  dry  when  taken 
from  the  oven,  but  keeping  them  for  a  few  days  in  damp  (not 
wet)  cloths  makes  them  nice  and  tender.  Grated  orange  peel 
and  vanilla,  together  or  separate,  may  be  used  for  flavoring; 
but  the  delicate  flavor  of  anise  is  especially  agreeable. 

By  weight,  the  ingredients  are  ij^  lb,  pastry  flour,  yi  lb. 
butter,  %  lb.  brown  sugar,  ]^  lb.  molasses. 

YEAST  CAKES 

It  is  especially  important   to   use  pastry  flour  in  cakes  made 

with  yeast. 

A  good  liquid  yeast  gives  better  results  in  cake,  but  compressed 

yeast  may  be  used. 

ic  Saltron  Cake— no  egga 
2  cups  milk  more  than  i  teaspn.  of  imported 

4.  tablespns.  yeast  i  cup  water  in  which  saffron  has 

8J4  cups  flour  been  steeped  yi  hr. 

a  cups  ( I  lb. )  butter  3  cups  currants 

2)^  cups  sugar  2  cups  fine  cut  or  ground  citron 

%  cup  domestic  saffron,  not  i  teaspn.  lemon  extract 

%-\  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  very  little  water, 
with  sugar,  may  be  used  instead  of  soft  yeast,  and  i  extra 
tablespn.  of  water  added  to  the  sponge. 

Make  a  sponge  at  night  of  the  milk  (just  warm),  yeast  and  4K 
cups  of  flour,  and  in  the  morning  add  the  cup  of  warm  saffron 
water.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  with  a  little  flour,  add  the 
sponge  gradually,  mixing  and  beating,  then  the  remainderof  the 
flour  warm  (except  a  little  which  has  been  used  to  dust  the  fruit), 
beat  well,  add  the  extract  and  warmed,  floured  fruit,  mix  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


380  THE    LAUBEL 

pour  into  3  good  sized  paper  lined  cake  pans.  Let  stand  until 
bubbles  appear  in  the  batter,  usually  2-3  hrs.  with  soft  yeast; 
not  so  long,  perhaps,  with  compressed;  when  light,  put  into 
a  slow  oven;  let  cakes  come  up  slowly  and  bake  very  moderately 
until  they  stop  singing,  i>^-2  hrs.,  depending  upon  the  heat  of 
the  oven,  but  they  must  bake  slowly. 

When  cake  is  started  in  the  morning,  6  tablespns.  of  soft,  or 
a  whole  cake  of  compressed  yeast  may  be  used.  The  quantity 
of  flour  may  need  to  be  varied  a  little  according  to  the  brand. 

Clbran  and  Coooonut  Oakes—no  eggs 

1  cup  milk  iK  cup  sugar 

2  tablespns.  yeast,  (or  }6-}i  %  cup  water 

cake  compressed  yeast  with  extra  K-i  cup  ground  citron 

Yi  tablespn.  of  water  in  sponge)  %  teaspn.  weak  extract  rose 

4K  cups  flour  I  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

I  cup  butter  I  teaspn.  vanilla 

Prepare  as  in  preceding  recipe  (of  which  it  is  just  half)  and  at 
the  last  divide  into  2  parts,  add  the  citron  and  rose  to  one,  and 
the  cocoanut  and  vanilla  to  the  other.  The  loaves  will  not  be 
very  lai^e. 

White  Fralt  Cake~no  eggs 

The  whole  of  the  above  recipe,  using  only  %  cup  of  butter, 
with  ^-i  cupof  citron,  I  cupof  cocoanutand  ^  cupof  almonds, 
all  ground. 

it  Dried  Apple  Cake—yeast 

Cut  2  cups  dried  apples  into  small  pieces  with  shears,  soak 
over  night  in  i>^  cup  water,  then  cook  in  %  cup  molasses  until 
transparent. 

Sponge —  1  cup  water,  i  cake  compressed  yeast,  2%  cups 
flour. 

Wken  light,  add  y%  cup  butter  (or  half  oil)  and  %  cup  sugar 
creamed  together,  the  dried  apples,  grated  rind  of  orange  or 
lemon,  2  beaten  eggs  and  2  cups  flour. 

One  egg  only  may  be  used;  the  cake  is  excellent  with  no  eggs. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


it  Washington  Cake—no  egga 
Remember  to  lay  flour  lightly  into  cup, 
Spongt — I  pt.  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

I  cake  yeast  i  qt.  flour 

When  li£rht — salt  1  %  cup  oil  and  butter, 

i-iJi  cup  sugar  half  of  each 

I  cup  water  In  which  a  little      V^  - 1  teaspn.  lemon 
saffron  has  been  steeped  extract 

6j4  cups  flour 
Prepare  same  as  saffron  cake  and  bake  in  not  too  thick  loaves. 

Waahington  Pie— no  egga 
Bake  Washington  cake  in  rather  thin,   flat  loaf,  split  and  put 
the  following  cream  between  and  around,  or  put  cream  over  and 
around  cake  without  splitting. 

Cream — \%  tablespn.  cooking  oil  large  %  cup  sugar 

1%-iy^  tablespns.  flour  yellow  color 

I  pt.  milk  salt  t  teaspn.  vanilla 

Heat  oil,  add  flour,  then  hot    milk,    salt    and   sugar,    stirring 
smooth  at  different  stages.     Steep  a  trifle  of  saffron  in  the  milk. 
Add  vanilia  when  cold. 
Another 

Cream — i  tablespn.  butter  Vs  cnp  sugar 

3j4  tablespns.  flour  salt 

I  pt.  boiling  milk  1  egg 

flavoring 
Bllsabeth'a  Baised  Cake 
Spaitg-e—s-sH  cups  flour  2  tablespns.  yeast  (or  j4  cake 

Js  cup  sugar  compressed  yeast) 

iH  cup  milk 
IVAen  iight—i}i  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  butter  i  cup  raisins 

'A  cup  citron 
Make  sponge  at  night  with  soft  yeast  or  early  in  the  morning 
with  compressed. 

When  light,  add  the  butter,  well  creamed  with  the  sugar,  and 
beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  veT>-  thoroughly  and  put  into  the  tins. 
When  partly  risen,  stick  the  fruit  in  all  over  the  top;  let  rise 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


382  THE   LAUREL 

about  x}4  hr.,  or  until  bubbles  may  be  seen;  bake  i  hr.  in  mod- 
erate oven.     The  cake  is  excellent  without  fruit. 

German  Almond  Loaf 
Sponge — y^  cup  milk  or  i  cake  compressed  yeast 

3  tablespns.  liquid  yeast      3  cups  flour 

When  light — 4  yolks  of  eggs  3-4.  cups  flour 

I  cup  sugar  halved  blanched  almonds  or 
y^  cup  butter  halves  of  pecans  or  walnuts 

^  cup  of  warm  milk  grated  rindof  i-ij^  lemon 

Beat  yolks  with  sugar  and  add  to  butter  which  has  been  creamed 
with  part  of  the  flour;  then  add  the  flavoring,  the  sponge,  the 
milk  and  the  flour  alternating,  beating  until  the  flour  is  all  in. 
Butter  tube  mold  or  other  pans  thick  with  cold  butter  and  stick 
almonds  to  sides  in  regular  rows.  Do  not  put  any  in  the  bottom. 
Half  Bll  pan  with  batter  and  let  rise  until  pan  is  nearly  full;  bake 
1  hr.,  or  until  cake  stops  singing,  in  moderate  and  slow  oven  so 
as  not  to  burn  nuts. 

Cake  Without  Chemicals 
(Mrs.  W.  W.  Wheeler,  Ambato,  Ecuador.) 
I  large  cup  thin  bread  sponge  i  cup  sugar 

3  eggs,  save  out  i  white  or  yolk  5  tablespns.  oil 

Yi  cup  flour 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar,  add  oil,  then  the  sponge,  lastly  fold  in 
the  flour;  put  into  3  layer  cake  pans  and  let  stand  for  2  or  3 
hours  in  a  not  very  warm  place.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling — Beat  the  white  of  egg  stiff,  add  i  tablespn.  sugar 
and  2  tablespns.  thick  cream,  or,  make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  yolk. 

Haple  Loaf  Oake 
I  cup  bread  dough 
J4  cup  butter 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  e^  and  mix  all 
thoroughly  with  the  dough;  add  a  little  flour,  turn  into  tin  and 
let  rise  H  hr.  or  longer  before  baking. 


Bailed  MolasBes  Cake—no  egge  or  two  whites 
Sponge — 2  cups  skimmed  milk,   4  tablespns.   yeast,  4^  cups 
flour. 

When  light — 2  cups  (i  lb.)  butter,  2  cups  molasses  which  has 
been  boiled  and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  3  cups  (not  too  fine)  nuts, 
raisins,  citron  or  cocoanut  or  combinations  of  same,  4-4  J4  cups 
flour,  part  for  fruit.  The  whites  of  2  eggs  may  be  used  with  the 
4  cups  of  flour. 

Attend  to  sponge  and  cake  as  soon  as  light.      Steam  or  bake, 

German  OoHee  Cake— no  eggs 
I  pt.  milk  K'l  cake  compressed 

I  tablespn.  butter  salt  [yeast 

3  tablespns.  sugar  flour  for  soft  dough 

Let  rise,  knead,  spread  on  flat  tin  with  floured  hand,  ^-1  in. 
thick,  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  ground  cori- 
ander seed;  or,  spread  with  an  egg  beaten  with  a  teaspn.  of 
sugar,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  chopped  or  split  blanched  almonds; 
let  rise;  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Use  universal  crust  dough  if  a  more  tender  cake  is  desired. 

•k  Royal  Sponge  Cake 
3  eggs  1  tablespn.  ice  water 

Yi  cup  sugar  ?3  cup  pastry  flour 

I  tablespn.  lemon  juice  3  drops  extract  rose 

Put  tf^ether  and  bake  same  as  nut  and  citron  cake  except  for 
the  nut  meal.  This  makes  i  loaf  or  2  small  layers.  3  times 
the  quantity  makes  2  large  square  loaves,  or  4  large  layers. 

May  use  I J4  tablespn.  of  orange  juice  with  yolks  of  eggs  and 
%  tablespn.  lemon  juice  with  whites  in  place  of  the  water  and 
lemon  juice.  Flavor  sugar  with  oil  of  orange  and  add  {^  teaspn. 
vanilla  to  the  cake.  Finished  with  royal  tilling  and  icing,  this 
makes  a  cake  suitable  for  a  royal  occasion. 

VariationB  of  Boyal  Sponge  Cake 
(l)  Use  2  tablespns.  of  cream  in  cake  instead  of  lemon  juice 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


384  THE   LAUREL 

and  water,  with  or  without  1  teaspn.  of  lemon  juice  in  whites 
of  e^s. 

(2)  Use  %  cup  of  molasses  in  place  of  the  sugar,  no  water,  i 
teaspn.  only,  of  lemon  juice  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  I  cup  of  flour 
and  1-2  teaspns.  ground  coriander  seed. 

(3)  Use  brown  sugar  in  place  of  white,  and  orange  or  vanilla 
flavoring. 

i(  Sponge  Irfiyer  Oske 
3  eggs  4  tablespns.  water 

I  cup  sugar  I-I/4  cup  flour 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  syrup  will  thread,  pour  hot  synip  slowly 
over  beaten  yolks;  beat  until  cool,  chop  in  stiffly-beaten  whites 
and  flour;  flavor  if  desired.     2  small  layers. 

The  sponge  layer  cake  and  all  sponge  cakes  containing  the 
yolks  of  eggs  may  be  put  together  as  follows;  Break  the  e^s 
into  a  cake  bowl,  set  the  bowl  into  a  pan  of  boilingwateron  the 
table  and  beat  until  light;  add  hot  water  (if  any)  and  the  sugar 
(or  the  hot  syrup)  gradually,  beating-  When  light,  remove  from 
water,  add  flavoring  and  fold  in  flour  lightly. 

ii  Old  Friend  Sponge  Cake 
I  %  cup  granulated  sugar  fla-        i-i  %  tablespn.  lemon  juice 
vored  with  oil  of  lemon  2%  cups  flour,  sifted  5  or 

large  }^  cup  cold  water  6  times  after  measuring 

7  eggs 
Pour  cold  water  over  sugar,  heat  and  boil  slowly  until  [jerfectly 
clear;  cool,  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  syrup  and  half  the  lemon 
juice  and  beat  very  light;  slide  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  the  remainder  of  the  lemon  juice  on  to  mixture,  sift 
flour  over,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  chop  in  with  whites  until  all 
the  flour  is  in.  Bake  ^-l  hr.  in  slow  oven  until  just  done,  no 
longer,      i  large  loaf  in  deep  square  tin. 

Coooanut  Sponge  Cake.    1846 
6  eggs  a  trifle  of  salt 

I  cup  sugar  i  !4  cup  grated  fresh  cocoanut 

I  cup  flour  lemonorvanillaflavoring 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


CAKES  385 

Put  together  as  nut  aod  citron  cake,  or  beat  e^s  in  dish  set 
in  hot  water,  add  sugar,  cocoanutand  flavoring,  then  flour.     Put 
mixture  1 J4  '"■  deep  in  pans  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
Bioe  Flonr  Sponge  Cake.  1846 
6  eggs  flavoring 

Ji  cup  sugar  ?3  cup  rice  flour 

scant  H  cup  pastry  flour 

Beat  e^s  in  dish  set  in  hot  water,  add  sugar,  flavoring  and 
rice  and  pastry  flour  mixed.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Angel  Cake 
I  cup  of  egg  whites—  1  cup  flour 

B  large  or  10  small  eggs  1-3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

t%  cup  granulated  or  i}4  a  pinch  of  salt 

cup  powdered  sugar  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Sift  2  or  3  cups  of  sugar  twice;  measure  out  t  cup;  sift  a  sifter 
of  flour  4  times;  measure  out  i  cup  and  mix  it  with  the  cup  of 
sugar;  put  both  in  the  sifter  and  sift  once,  return  to  the  sifter 
and  set  in  cold  place;  separate  the  eggs,  putting  the  whites  into 
the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  beaten  and  set  them  in  a  cold 
place  for  15-20  m;  when  cool,  add  the  salt  to  the  eggs  and  begin 
beating  with  a  long  slow  stroke,  gradually  increasing  the  veloc- 
ity until  the  e^s  begin  tostiffen,  then  pour  the  lemon  juice  over 
and  beat  more  rapidly  for  a  time;  continue  beating  until  whites 
are  stiff  and  feathery,  then  add  flavoring;  sift  flour  and  sugar 
mixture  over  gradually,  chopping  and  folding  it  in  carefully; 
when  all  is  in,  drop  by  spoonfuls  evenly  into  the  pan  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  35-50  m.,  testing  with  broom  straw.  When  done, 
turn  the  pan  upside  down  with  the  sides  resting  on  two  saucers 
(unless  you  have  the  pans  with  projections  for  that  purpose),  so 
that  a  current  of  air  will  pass  under  and  over  the  cake, 

Tri-Colored  lAym  Cake 

Angel  cake — }4   white  flavored  with  vanilla;  j4  pink  flavored 

with  rose,  3  or4  large  layers.     Other  layers,  of  sponge  layer  cake 

lemon  flavored,  or  some  nice  light  brown  cake  such  as  molasses 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


386  THE   LAUREL 

sugar  cake  or  sponge  layer  cake  with  part  browned  flour.      Fill- 
ing of  raisin  dressing. 

Hiss  Lubey'B  Cream  Pnffa.  1  doi. 

1  large  cup  boiling  water  i  cup  pastry  flour 

K  cup  butter  or  oil  3  eggs 
salt 

Add  dry  flour  alt  at  once  to  boiling  water  and  butter;  stir 
quickly  over  the  hre  until  mixture  forms  a  ball  which  leaves  the 
pan;  remove  from  fire  and  stir  till  partly  cool;  add  beaten  yolks 
of  e^;s,  part  at  a  time,  beating  well,  then  slightly  beaten  whites; 
beat;  set  in  cold  place,  covered,  for  i  hr,  or  more;  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls about  2  in.  apart  on  oiled  and  floured  tin,  flatten  with  brush 
or  fingers  dipped  in  milk  (may  leave  without  shaping);  have  oven 
rather  quick  at  first,  then  slower  until  there  is  no  "singing". 
Puffs  are  light  weight  when  done.  They  will  keep  for  several 
days.  Reheat  before  filling.  To  fill,  cut  open  at  the  side  with 
shears. 

The  butter  and  flour  may  be  creamed  together  first,  and  the 
boiling  water  poured  over,  then  the  whole  cooked  as  before. 

Cream — i  pt.  milk  a  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  salt 

I  tablespn.  flour  i  teas pn. vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  boil  up  well;  pour 
over  beaten  eggs,  return  to  fire  until  just  creamy,  not  boiling, 
coo);  add  salt  and  flavoring. 

If  cream  is  preferred  thicker,  use  J4  cup  of  flour  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  1 5  m.  before  adding  the  e^s. 

Whipped  cream  may  be  used  for  the  filling,  but  does  not  har- 
monize as  well  with  the  shells. 

These  shells  are  sometimes  used  (or  trumese  and  celery  salad, 
or  for  creamed  meat  dishes. 

Dainty  little  puffs  filled  with  different  creams  may  be  used  for 
garnishes  for  desserts,  or  piled  on  fancy  plates  for  cakes. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CAKES  387 

Additions  to  Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 
Caraway  or  anise  seeds,  ground  coriander  or  anise  seed;  chopped 
shelled  nuts;  grated  or  shredded  cocoanut;  grated  orange  or 
lemon  rind;  English  currants;  fine  cut  or  ground  raisins,  citron, 
figs  and  dates;  sometimes  a  raisin  or  half  a  blanched  almond  or 
half  of  a  pecan  or  hickory  nut  meat  in  the  center  of  each. 

SuggestiTe  Combinations 

Coriander,  English  currants  and  English  walnuts;  raisins  in 
molasses  cookies;  almonds  chopped  without  blanching,  and  rai- 
sins; almonds  same,  and  caraway  or  ground  coriander  seed. 

Graham  flour  cookies  with  English  currants;  i  part  raisins  and 
%  part  each  of  nuts,  cocoanut  and  citron,  with  or  without  va-  . 
nilla  or  lemon. 

All  cooky  dough  should  be  set  in  a  cold  place  for  2  hrs.  or 
longer  before  rolling  out.  Roll  out  in  cool  room  on  well  floured 
board.  Cut  the  cakes  all  out,  put  on  tins  and  set  in  cold  place 
before  beginning  to  bake  them  as  the  baking  will  require  all  one's 
attention. 

Very  thin  dough  may  be  cut  oblong,  round  or  in  any  desired 
shape  and  some  of  the  following  fillings  placed  between  each 
two  pieces  before  they  are  baked — 

Ground  or  mashed  dates  or  tigs  rolled  thin  and  cut  with  the 
same  cutter  that  the  dough  was  cut  with;  raspberry  or  other 
fruit  jams  and  jellies  or  orange  marmalade,  also  some  of  the  suit- 
able cake  fillings. 

It  may  sometimes  be  more  convenient  to  cut  the  dough  Into 
strips  4  in,  wide,  spread  half  the  width  with  the  fruit,  fold  the 
other  half  over,  pinch  down  the  edge  and  cut  into  3  in.  lengths. 

Tops  of  cookies  may  sometimes  be  brushed  with  white  of  egg 
and  water  or  with  syrup  of  }i  cup  each  sugar  and  water  boiled 
together;  or,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  coriander,  chopped  nuts  or 
suitable  fruits. 

Instead  of  sprinkling  cookies  with  different  materials,    brush 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


388  THE    LAUREL 

the  tops  with  milk  a.ad  turn  them  on  to  any  preparation  or  mix- 
ture desired. 

Grated  and  sifted  maple  sugar  may  be  used  in  place  of  other 
sugar  in  cookies  by  using  a  somewhat  smaller  quantity. 

Oil  and  flour  pans  for  baking  cookies. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  bake  cookies  on  the  bottom  of  inverted 
dripping  pans.  This  prevents  them  from  burning  on  the  bottom 
and  it  is  easier  to  remove  them  from  the  tins. 


if  Bioh  8m^  Cakes-Cookies 
(From  an  old  recipe  book  of  my  auntie's,  published  in  1846 J 
I  cup  butter  2?^-2?i  cups  pastry  flour 

scant  \%  cup  sugar  i  eggs 

vanilla,  almond  or  any  desired  flavoring 

By  weight — H  lb.  butter,  >i  lb.  sugar,  lo  ozs,  flour. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  beaten  eggs,  flavoring  and  flour;  let 
stand  in  cold  place  until  thoroughly  cold;  roll  H-J4  in.  thick. 
Bake  in  oven  which  is  moderately  hot  at  flrst,  so  cakes  will  not 
spread.     Be  careful  not  to  burn. 

A  little  more  flour  may  be  used  if  preferred,  also  half  oil  instead 
of  all  butter,  and  brown  sugar  instead  of  granulated. 

For  Jumbles,  break  oH  pieces  of  dough  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  make  into  rings  by  rolling  out  rolls  as  large  as  the  finger  and 
joining  the  ends;  or,  cut  in  rings;  dust  with  sugar. 

Tolk  Jumblea 

%  cup  butter  yolks  +  eggs 

yi  cup  sugar  scant  pint  of  flour 

lemon  flavoring  salt 

Poach  yolks  of  eggs  dry  and  mealy;  rub  them  smooth  and  add 
butter  gradually,  creaming;  add  sugar  and  flavoring,  then  flour, 
a  little  at  a  time;  cool,  roll  thin,  cut  with  doughnut  cutter,  dust 
with  sugar,  bake. 

if  Cream  Cookies 
1/4  cup  sugar  yolks  of  3  eggs 

I  cup  thin  cream  scant  ^  cup  butter  and  oil  half 

I  teaspn.  vanilla  about  +J4  cups  flour     [and  half 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


CAKES  3^9 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  add  beaten  yolks, 
beat  well,  then  add  the  cream  gradually  with  the  flavoring,  and 
lastly,  all  of  the  flour.  Handle  after  mixing  the  same  as  rich 
small  cakes.  Fruits,  nuts  or  seeds  may  be  added.  These  cook- 
ies will  keep  almost  indefinitely. 

Xinnoli  Cakes 
Take  ^  the  sugar  and  a  little  more  flour  in  rich  small  cakes, 
or  cream  cookies,  and  roll  to  J4  or  I  in.  in  thickness.  Cut  of 
the  size  to  fit  tins,  crinkle  et^es  or  press  with  fork,  crease  in 
squares  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Caraway  or  otherflavoring 
may  be  used.  Chopped  nuts,  alittle  si^arand  ground  or  shredded 
citron  may  be  mixed  on  a  board  or  fiat  pan  and  one  side  of  the 
cakes  pressed  into  the  mixture  before  baking.  Set  in  cold  place 
before  rolling  out. 

AniM  WsferB,  or  OeTiaan  Christmas  Cakes 
^  cup  butter  M  teaspn.  ground  anise  seed  or 

I  cup  sugar  I  teaspn.  whole  seed 

3  eggs  flour  for  soft  dough 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  a  little  flour,  with  seeds,  then 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites, 
with  flour,  folding  together  lightly;  kneadin  flour  for  soft  dough, 
cover  and  set  in  cold  place;  roll  rather  thin,  cut  cakes  about  the 
size  of  a  half  dollar. 

Sour  Cream  Cookles—no  soda 

I  %  cup  sugar  scant  ^  cup  oil  or  butter 

I  cup  thick  sour  cream  any  desired  flavoring,  fruits 

yolks  3  eggs  nuts  or  seeds 

5-5)^  cups  pastry  flour 
Mix  lightly,  set  in  cold  place,  roll  rather  thin. 

Honey  Wafers 

I  cup  honey  boiled  and  cooled     2  small  eggs  or  i  large  one 
?^  cup  butter  pinch  salt  5  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  with  a  little  flour,  add  beaten  egg  and  honey, 
then  remainder  of  flour. 

U.q,t,zc„b,COOQlC 


390  THE    LAUREL 


I  Cookies 

^  cup  molasses  %  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  eggs  )^-H  teaspn,  lemon  extract 

1  cup  butter  2  tablespns.  browned  flour 

about  3J4  cups  pastry  flour 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling  and  pour  slowly,  stirring,  over  well 
beaten  eggs;  cool;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  browned  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  of  the  white  flour,  add  flavoring  with  e^^ 
and  molasses,  then  the  remainder  of  the  flour  or  enough  to  make 
a  not  too  soft  dough.  Set  in  cold  place  and  roll  out  the  same 
as  small  cakes.  Care  must  be  taken  in  baking,  as  molasses 
burns  easily. 

Or,  boil  and  cool  molasses,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
eggs,  a  Uttle  flour,  then  molasses  gradually,  beating  well,  and 
finally,  the  flour. 

Browned  flour  may  be  omitted  and  a  few  drops  of  rose  extract 
used  in  flavoring. 

A  Uolasges  Cakea—  do  eggs 
iH  cup  oil  or  butter  coriander,  anise,  rose  or 

2  cups  molasses  vanilla  flavoring 
orange  or  lemon  rind  or                     pastry  flour 

Cream  butter  with  a  little  flour,  add  molasses  which  has  been 
boiled  and  cooled,  with  flavoring,  and  flour  for  stiff  dough,  about 
2%  qts.  Mix  as  little  as  possible,  cover  and  set  in  cold  place 
for  several  hours.  Shape  into  small  thick  cakes,  or,  roll  about 
%  in.  thick,  prick  with  fork  or  crease  and  cut  into  small  cakes. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.     Remove  from  tins  as  soon  as  baked. 

With  nice  flavored  molasses,  no  other  flavoring  is  necessary. 
More  shortening  may  be  used, 

•k  HolaaaeB  Snaps~no  eggs 
J4  cup  oil  or  butter,  or  2  cups  flour 

half  of  each  2  cups  molasses 

I  cup  sugar  flavoring 

more  flour 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  the  2  cups  of  flour,  pour  hot  molasses 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOOt^lc 


CAKES  391 

over,  add  flavoring  and  flourfor  stiff  dough,  perhaps  about  6  cups; 
press  tc^ether  lightly,  set  in  cold  place  for  several  hours;  roll 
thin,  bake  in  moderately  quick  oven  and  remove  from  tins  at 
once.  These  cakes  will  be  brittle  when  first  made  and  will  grow 
softer  with  time.     One  cup  of  butter  may  be  used  for  richer  cakes. 

Nut  Wafers 
I  cup  chopped  English  walnut,         3  eggs 

pecan  or  hickory  nut  meats  4  level  tablespns.  flour 

I  cup  dark  brown  sugar  salt 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well;  then  add  flour, 
salt  and  nuts.  Mix,  spread  as  thin  as  possible  on  buttered  pans, 
set  in  cold  place,  bake  in  quick  oven.  When  nearly  cold,  cut 
into  squares. 

ITut  Cakes~Bro.  Hurdon 
I  cup  chopped  nut  meats  i  cup  flour 

[  cup  sugar  l  egg 

Mix,  drop  on  well  oiled  tins  some  distance  apart,  bake.  Re- 
move from  tins  when  taken  from  the  oven. 

Hard  Sponge  Cakes 

Cream  together  J^   cup  butter  and   I   cup  sugar,   add   i   well 

beaten  egg  and  I  cup  of  flour  to  which  has  been  added  a  pinch 

of  salt;  stir  in  i   cup  chopped  nut  meats;  drop  in  spoonfuls  on 

buttered  tins  and  flatten  or  shapea  little;  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Risen  Donghnats—Baked 

Spongt — I  cup  milk        Yi  cake  compressed  yeast        2  cups  flour 

Add  dissolved  yeast  and  flour  to  warm  milk,  beat  well,  let  rise. 

When  light— 
j4  cup  sugar  vanilla,  lemon,  coriander  or 

5  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  anise  for  flavoring 

butter  2-3^  cups  Hour 

X  teaspn.  salt 

Beat  oil  and  sugar  together  with  a  little  flour,  add  flavoring, 
salt  and  light  sponge,  gradually,  beating;  then  enough  flour  for 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


392  THE   LAUREL 

a  moderately  stiff  dough ;  knead  a  little  and  let  rise.  When  well 
risen,  roll  %  or  }i  in.  thick,  cut  with  doughnut  cutter  and  place 
on  floured,  oiled  tins  some  distance  apart.     Let  rise,  bake. 

Roll  in  sugar  with  or  without  ground  coriander  seed  or  chopped 
nuts  before  laying  on  tins,  if  desired,  or  moisten  with  sugar  syrup 
or  white  of  e^  and  water  and  roll  in  sugar  after  baking. 

Another  half-spoon   of   oil   may   be   added  to  sponge,  with  i 
white  and  2  yolks  of  e^swell  beaten,  but  eggsare  not  necessary.  ' 
H  a  yellow  color  is  desired,  use  a  little  saffron.     Mix  softer  when 
eggs  are  used. 

Biten  DooghnatB 
Sponge — I  cup  skimmed  milk  2  tablespos.  soft  yeast 

?i  cake  compressed,  or  3  cups  flour 

When  light— 

3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  salt 

butter  flavoring 

%  cup  sugar  yolk  of  i  egg  or  not 

flour  for  rather  stiff  dough 

Proceed  as  in  baked  doughnuts,  lay  on  floured  board,  cover; 
when  very  light,  fry  in  cooking  or  ohve  oil,  hot  enough  for  the 
cakes  to  rise  to  the  top  almost  instantly.  Turn  at  once  with  a 
fork.  /^  of  a  cup  of  oil  may  be  used  in  the  cakes  and  1  whole 
well  beaten  e^. 

Our  grandmothers'  twisted  doughnuts  are  dear  toall  our  hearts. 
Sometimes  roll  the  dough  thin,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  put 
a  teaspoonful  of  some  jelly  or  jam  on  one  side,  fold  the  other 
side  over,  having  moistened  the  edges,  press  well  together,  fry 
when  light,  roll  in  sugar.  Baked  doughnuts  may  be  prepared 
the  same. 

CroUera 
>^->^  cup  butler  3  eggs(separate  if  desired) 

y^-%  cup  sugar  flour  for  soft  dough 

Mix,  chill,  roll  thin,  cut  in  strips  %%  in.  long  and  2  in.  wide; 
cut  2  slits  in  each  piece  and  give  each  strip  of  dough  a  twist. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CAKES  393 

Fry  in  oil  or  bake  in  oven.     When  to  be  fried,  use  the  smaller 
quantity  of  butter  and  sugar. 

Crullers  may  have  4  incisions  made  lengthwise  to  within  }i  of 
an  in.  of  each  end.  To  fry,  take  up  the  second  and  fourth  strips 
and  let  the  others  separate  in  the  middle  from  those  in  the  hand 
as  you  drop  them  into  the  hot  oil.  For  baking,  it  is  better  to 
twist  the  strips. 

Fried  Cakes 

I  cup  milk  salt,     flour 

a  eggs  3  tablespns.  oil  or 
H  cup  sugar  melted  butter 

Add  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  to  cold  milk,  agitate  with  wire 
batter  whip  until  full  of  bubbles,  sprinkle  flour  in  gradually, 
keeping  up  the  agitating  motion.  When  the  batter  is  quite  stiff, 
beat  in  the  oil  gradually,  and  chop  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Add  flour  for  rather  stiff  dough  and  set  in  cold  place 
for  2  hrs.  or  longer.     Shapeandfry  the  same  as  risen  doughnuts. 

ICINGS  AND  FILLinaS  FOB  CASES 

Starch,  which  is  changed  intosugar  in  theprocessof  digestion, 
and  cane  sugar,  form  so  lai^e  a  part  of  all  cakes  as  to  furnish  in 
themselves  an  excess  of  that  element;  so  why  should  we  put  a 
coating  of  almost  solid  sugar  over  the  outside .'  Certainly  not  for 
hygienic  reasons.  If  a  cake  is  well  baked,  the  icing  only  hides 
its  beauty,  and  the  excessive  sweetness  destroys  the  flavors  of 
the  finest  cake.  Let  us  not  use  it.  Protest  and  recipes  are 
both  given. 

Instead  of  icing,  sometimes  sift  granulated,  brown  or  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top  of  the  loaf  of  cake,  or  over  one  layer  to  be 
used  for  the  top,  before  baking. 

Glaze  the  top  of  molasses  cookies  or  cakes  before  baking  with 
a  mixture  of  I  yolk  of  egg  and  2  tablespns.  of  milk. 

Sprinkle  half  a  cup  of  chopped  or  ground  blanched  almonds 
or  other  nuts  over  the  top  of  the  cake  just  before  it  goes  into 


o,CjOO»^Ic 


394  I'HB   LADKEL 

the  oven,  and  cover   the   cake   until   nearly   done  to   prevent 
browning  the  nuts. 

The  tops  of  cakes  may  be  brushed  after  baking  with  equal  parts 
of  molasses  and  milk  mixed. 

Water  loing 

The  simplest  of  icings  is  granulated,  powdered  or  xxxx  confec- 
tioner's sugar  formed  into  a  paste  so  that  it  will  run  just  smooth, 
by  the  addition  of  hot  or  cold  water.  That  made  from  granu- 
lated sugar  must  be  made  with  hot  water  and  bepretty  stiff.  It 
takes  longer  to  dry  and  is  more  likely  to  run;  that  from  powdered 
sugar  is  also  quite  likely  to  run.  The  icing  made  from  confec- 
tioner's sugar  is  the  most  satisfactory.  It  is  usually  made  with 
cold  water,  but  one  authority  recommends  hot  water  very  posi- 
tively. 

One  recipe  for  granulated  sugar  frosting  is — 

I  cup  sugar,  t  tablespn.  boiling  water,  beat  until  it  will  spread. 

Fruit  Jnloe  Icing 

Stir  rolled  and  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  into  any  desired 
fruit  juice  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread;  use  a  knife 
dipped  in  cold  water  to  smooth  the  icing;  i-ij^  tablespn.  of 
liquid  will  be  enough  for  the  top  of  a  medium  sized  loaf  of  cake. 

If  you  have  never  made  such  an  icing,  you  will  be  surprised  to 
see  how  much  sugar  a  little  liquid  will  take.  More  icing  is  quickly 
made  if  you  do  not  have  enough. 

When  juices  of  different  fruits  are  used  in  their  season,  the 
top  of  the  cake  may  be  decorated  with  the  fruit  whole,  in  halves 
or  in  slices.  For  instance,  slices  from  the  heart  of  strawberries, 
or,  halves  of  red  raspberries.  The  fruit  may  also  be  placed  be- 
tween the  layers  of  the  cake. 

Cream  loing 

Stir  confectioner's  sugar  into  cream,  plain  or  whipped,  for 
both  filling  and  icing. 

If  you  have  a  little  of  these  icings  left  over,  cover  it  and  set 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CAKES  395 

in  a  cold  place,  and  add  more  liquid  and  sugar  to  it  the  next  time. 

WMte  of  ^^  loing-HuB  Stokes 
white  of  I  egg  speck  of  salt 

I  tablespn.  ice  water  i  cup  confectioner's  sugar 

flavoring 

Beat  white  of  egg  with  water,  flavoring  and  salt  to  a  stiff  dry 
froth;  add  sugar  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread,  if  too 
stiff,  add  quickly  I  teaspn.  of  cream  or  a  few  drops  of  water. 

The  icing  is  sometimes  made  by  mixing  the  water  and  egg 
without  beating  and  stirring  the  sugar  in,  making  a  smoother 
and  more  tender  frosting.     May  use  powdered  sugar.    ■ 

White  of  Egg  loing  with  Lemon  Juioe 
white  of  I  egg  i  tablespn.  lemon  juice 

I  cup  powdered  sugar  }4  teaspn.  vanilla 

Put  the  white  of  egg  into  a  bowl  and  add  the  sugar  by  degrees, 
beating;  when  the  sugar  is  all  in,  add  lemon  juice  and  vanilla. 

Qolden  lolng 

Yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  to  make  stiff  enough 
to  spread,  about  I  cupful  for  3  yolks;  vanilla  or  orange  flavoring 
or  both.     Beat  until  thick  and  creamy. 

For  an  orange  cake,  use  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  small 
orange  to  3  yolks  with  the  powdered  sugar,  and  use  for  filling 
and  icing.  Sections  of  orange  may  be  laid  on  top.  Confec- 
tioner's sugar  may  be  used. 

ir  Butter  Frosting— almost  like  whipped  ore&m 
Work  together  i  cup  confectioner'ssugarand  i  level  tablespn. 
of  butter.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Add  i  ^-1  }4  tablespn.  of  milk. 
Beat  well. 

Jell?  Icing 
Beat  a  glass  of  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time.  Into  the  whites  of  2 
eggs.     If  the  jelly  is  very  tart,  use  2-3  tablespns.  powdered  sugar. 
Prepare  the  icing  some  little  time  before  it  is  to  be  used  and  set 

U.q,t,zcob,COOQlC 


396  THE    LAUREL 

on  ice.     Elder-berry  jelly  gives  a  delightful  flavor  and  beautiful 
color.     Quince  is  also  nice. 

Boiled  loing 
I  cup  granulated  sugar  /^  teaspn.  vanilla,  or  the 

H  cup  water  proper  proportion  of  any 

white  of  I  egg  desired  flavoring 

Stir  sugar  and  water  together  over  the  fire  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, then  boil  without  stirring  until  the  syrup  will  spin  in 
threads  when  dropped  from  the  tines  of  a  fork,  or  until  a  hard 
ball  is  formed  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  slowlyover 
the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  e^,  beating  briskly,  until  stiH enough 
to  spread.  If  the  icing  gets  too  stiff,  set  over  hot  water  or  thin 
with  a  trifle  of  lemon  or  other  fruit  juice,  or  hot  water.  J^-i 
teaspn.  of  lemon  juice  added  to  the  white  of  eg^  when  about 
half  beaten  will  make  the  icing  more  creamy.  Some  beat  the 
white  of  egg  slightly,  only. 

2  or  3  whites  may  be  used  with  this  quantity  of  syrup.  One 
writes  that  she  turns  her  syrup  on  to  a  platter  and  allows  it  to 
become  perfectly  cold  before  beating  in  the  eggs,  and  she  thinks 
it  is  much  smoother  and  nicer. 

One  combination  of  flavors  is,  l4  teaspn.  each  vanilla,  orange 
and  strawberry,  or  i  or  2  drops  of  rose  in  place  of  strawberry, 

Bro.  Cornforth's  directions  are  excellent:  "Boil  thesugar  and 
water  till  it  threads  well,  not  just  till  it  begins  to  thread;  then 
set  the  dish  off  the  stove  and  cover  tight  while  you  beat  the 
whites  stiff;  then  pour  the  hot  syrup  in  a  small  stream  into  the 
whites,  beating  continuously;  beat  till  it  becomes  cool  enough 
to  spread  on  the  cake. " 

Boiled  Hilk  loing-no  egg 
I  cup  granulated  sugar  without  a  little  butter 

4.  tablespns.  milk,  with  or  or  i}^  cup  sugar  and  K  cup  milk 

Boil  5  m.,  or  until  syrup  stiffens  in  cold  water;  stiruntil  thick 
enough  to  spread. 


ovGoo<^lc 


CAKES  397 

Caramel  Ioing~iio  6gg 
I  i4  cup  brown  sugar,  j4  cup  cream.     Boil  until  syrup  stiffens 
when  dropped  in  water.     Substitute  5^  cupsour  cream  for  sweet, 
with  brown  or  granulated  sugar. 

Boiled  Uaple  Ioing~no  egg 

Add  J^  cup  sweet  cream  to  2  cups  rolled  or  grated  maple  sugar. 
Boil  slowly  until  mixture  will  thread.  Cool  about  half,  stir  in 
}4  cup  chopped  English  walnut  meats,  beat  until  creamy,  and 
spread  over  cake. 

Half  granulated  sugar  may  be  used,  and  j4  cup  of  milk  with 
a  little  butter  substituted  for  the  cream. 

Maple  Symp  Icing  and  Filling 

Boil  ^-i  cup  of  maple  syrup  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water.  Pour  over  beaten  white  of  egg.  Beat  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread.  If  desired,  stir  in  }4  cup  of  rolled  butternut 
meats  just  before  spreading  on  the  cake.  The  syrup  may  be 
boiled  until  it  threads. 

Whipped  Cream 
Flavored   with    vanilla  is  delightful,  of  course,   on  the  top  of 
thin  loaves  of  cake  cut  in  squares.    Or,  for  tilling,  with  chopped, 
blanched  almonds,  dry,  fine-cut  stewed  prunes,  orshces  of  banana. 

Molasses  cake  baked  in  layers,  with  whipped  cream  between 
the  layers  and  over  the  top,  with  or  without  a  sprinklingof  grated 
cocoanut,  is  considered  a  great  treat  in  some  households. 

Ooooanut  Cream 

I  cup  cream,  whipped.  H  cup  sugar 

I K  cup  fresh  grated  cocoanut 

Two  layers  add  on  top  of  cake,  with  cocoanut  sprinkled 
ovet  top.     Some  additional  flavoring  if  desired. 

Battemat  Filling 
I  cup  sweet  cream,  }4'H  cup  sugar  and   i  cup  rolled  butter- 
nut meats,  mixed  without  whipping  cream.      Flavoring  if  desired. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


398  THE   LAUREL 

if  Souf  Cream  Filling 
Before  I  gave  up  cake  I  used  to  think  this  Blling  had  no  equal: 

/4  cup  thick  sour  cream  i  J^  cup  chopped  blanched  aim- 

/4  cup  sugar  t  teaspn.  vanilta  [onds 

Whip  cream  (ice-cold),  sugar  and  vanilla  together  until  just 
thick,  taking  care  not  to  whip  too  long  as  sour  cream  turns  to 
butter  more  easily  than  sweet;  add  the  almonds,  spreadly  quickly 
between  layers  of  cake  and  roughly  on  top.  The  nuts  may  be 
sprinkled  over  the  layers  of  cream  instead  of  being  mixed  with 
it.  The  white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff  with  part  of  the  sugar  is 
Sometimes  added  to  the  whipped  cream.  Shellbark,  English 
walnut  or  rolled  butternut  meats  may  be  substituted  for  almonds. 

Creamed  Apple 
White  of  I  lai^  e^,  i  J^cup  granulated,  powdered  or  confec- 
■  tioner's  sugar,  2  or  3  medium  sized  apples.  Peel  apples  and 
grate  on  to  unbeaten  white  of  egg  and  sugar  in  large  bowl;  beat  for 
20  m;  or  until  light  and  creamy.  Lemon,  rose  or  strawberry 
may  be  used  if  flavoring  is  desired.  Spread  between  layers  and 
on  top  of  cold  cake.  Bananas,  peaches  and  other  fruits  rubbed 
through  a  fine  colander  may  be  used  the  same  as  apples. 
Steamed  quarters  of  apples  may  be  used. 

Coooanat  Filling 

Spread  under  and  upper  sides  of  layers  of  warm  cake  with  soft 

icing.     Sprinkle  tops  with  fresh  grated  cocoanut  and  put  other 

layers  on.     Use  plenty  of  icing  on  top  of  last  layer  and  sprinkle 

well  with  cocoanut. 

Date  Filling 

Stone  and  skin  dates  after  boiling  a  moment,  mash  or  grind 
them,  and  add  water  if  necessary ;  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  cake  with  coffee  icing  with  cream.  Chopped 
nuts  may  be  mixed  with  the  dates  and  sprinkled  over  the 
top  of  the  cake. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


CAKES  399 

Pineapple  Filling  and  lolng 

Chop  fresh  pineapple  and  sprinkle  with  sugar;  drain  after  3  or 
4  hrs;  add  beaten  whites  of  2  e^s,  %  cup  sngar  and  i  teaspn. 
lemon  juice  to  i  cup  of  pineapple  and  place  between  layers. 
Use  some  of  the  juice  with  confectioner's  sugar  for  icing  the  top 
and  sides  of  the  cake.  When  using  confectioner's  sugar  with 
pineapple  omit  whites  of  eggs. 

Drain  canned  pineapple  very  dry,  chop  and  add  lemon  juice 
and  confectioner's  sugar,  when  fresh  pineapple  is  not  obtainable. 

Imperial  Filling 
Spread  layers  of  cake  with  jelly  and  the  following  : 

Filling — I  cup  chopped  raisins  %  cup   grated  cocoanut 

%  cup  chopped  almonds         white  of  1  egg 

Beat  white  stiff,  add  other  ingredients  and  spread. 

Coffee  Icing 
Add  confectioner's  sugar  and  vanilla  to  strong  cereal  coffee, 
with  or  without  a  little  heavy  cream. 

Fig  JeU7  Filling 
I  lb.  figs,  chopped  fine       i  cup  sugar       %  cup  boiling  water 
Boil  to  a  jelly,  stirring   constantly,    or   cook  in  double  boiler 
until  thick. 

Prune  Filling 
Stew  %  lb,  of  prunes  in  a  very  little  water,  rub  through  col- 
ander or  cut  fine,  add  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  2  tablespns.  of  sugar. 

Hut  and  Baisin  Filling 
I  %  cup  sugar  i  cup  each  of  chopped  or  ground 

M  cup  water  raisins  and  nut  meats 

white  of  I  large  or  2  small  eggs     i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  the  syrup  will  form  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water;  pour  it  into  the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  egg,  add  nuts 
and  raisins  and  spread  while  warm  between  the  layers. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


400  THE   LAUREL 

Raisins  or  nuts  alone  may  be.  used.  Shellbarks  or  butternuts 
are.  especially  enjoyable.  Figs  or  dates  may  be  substituted  for 
the  raisins  or  for  the  nuts. 

ir  Cream  Filling 
I  cup  milk  I  egg  or  2  yolks,  or  i  egg 

y3-/4  cup  sugar  and  yolk  of  another 

2)^tabtespns.(X  cup)  flour         /4  teaspn.  vanilla 
Mix  sugar  and  flour  dry,  pour  boiling  milk  over,  boil  up,  turn 
over  beaten  eggs,  stirring,  return  to  fire  and  heat  until  creamy 
but  do  not  boil;  set  dish  at  once  into  cold  water,  add  flavoring. 
Use   J^   tablespn.   less  of  flour   for  Washington  Pie,   and  ^ 
cream  (or  a  small  piece  of  butter)  in  the  milk. 

^  cup  of  flour  is  sometimes  used.  Add  cocoanut  for  a  cocoa- 
nut  cake. 

Boyal  Filling  and  loing 
K  cup  milk  yi  cup  sugar 

K  cup  orange  juice  yolk  of  i  egg 

%  cup  flour  oil  from  rind  of  hall  an 

6  drops  vanilla  [orange 

I  drop  rose 

Flavor  sugar  wth  oil  of  orange,  make  cream  according  to  di- 
rections for  cream  filling  and  add  rose  and  vanilla  when  partly 
cool.      Icing  of  cream  and  confectioner's  sugar,  tinted  with  pink. 

I  have  usually  used  this  for  Royal  Sponge  Cake  and  this  quan- 
tity is  sufficient  for  one  large  layer. 

Filling  for  Lemon  Pie  Cake  and  Washington  Fie 

M-i  cup  sugar  yolk  i  egg 

1/4  tablespn.  corn  starch  or  2  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  teaspn.  butter  [of  flour  2-6  drops  lemon  extract  or 

1  cup  water  grated  rind  of  J4  a  lemon 

salt 
Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  or  flour,  drop  the  teaspoon  of  but- 
ter on  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  gradually,  stirring;  boil 
up  well  and  add  2  or  3  tablespns.  to  the  yolk  of  e^  stirring; 
then  add  yolk  to  the  mixture  and  cook  like  custard.  Remove 
from  tire  and  when  partially  cooled  add  flavoring.      Use  some- 


.b,C00Qlc 


CAKES  401 

times  for  the  tilling  of  a  cake  with  whipped  cream  on  the  top. 

Lemon  CheeBe  lor  Cakes 
)i  cup  butter  2  whites  and  3  yolks  of  eggs 

H  cup  sugar  3  tablespos.  lemon  juice 

grated  rind  of  i  lemon 

Cook  in  double  boiler,  cool,  spread  between  layers  of  sponge 
or  other  cake  or  on  crisp  pastry,  or  put  it  into  cream  puff  shells; 
or,  without  cooking  put  into  pastry  in  patty  pans  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven, 

Harshmallov  Filling 

1  oz.  (about  4  tablespns.)  sifted  powdered  gum  arabic,  4table- 
spns.  water,  j4  cup  sugar,  whites  3  eggs,  i  teaspn.  vanilla. 
Soak  gum  arabic  in  water  for  I  hour,  add  sugar,  cook  in  double 
boiler  }4  hour,  add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla, 
beat  until  stii!  and  white. 

Nice  for  2  or  3-days  old  angel  cake  split  in  halves  or  thirds. 


The  "Lady  Baltimore"  Cake  and  Bread  Pan. 


o,Goo<^lc 


ICE  CBEAU  AND  FBUIT  ICES 

Neither  very  hot  nor  very  cold  foods  should  be  taken  at 
meals.  If  foods  are  too  hot,  the  stomach  is  debilitated,  and  if 
they  are  very  cold,  vitality  must  be  drawn  from  the  system  to 
warm  them  before  the  work  of  digestion  can  be  carried  on;  so  it 
would  be  better  to  take  ice  cream  and  all  ices  by  themselves 
rather  than  as  a  dessert. 

When  ices  are  served  for  dessert,  they  should  be  eaten  very 
slowly. 

Water  ices,  sherbets  and  frozen  fruits,  without  large  quanti- 
ties of  sugar,  are  invaluable  in  cases  of  fever. 

I  am  not  going  into  the  subject  of  ice  cream  exhaustively  for 
there  are  plenty  of  books  on  that  subject  already,  but  will  give 
you.  my  own  recipe  which  must  be  tried  to  be  appreciated. 

The  little  flour  in  it  gives  it  a  smoothness  and  creaminess  with 
one  third  to  one  half  milk  equal  to  all  cream  without  it;  and 
does  not  give  the  disagreeable  flavor  of  corn  starch ;  also,  made 
by  this  method,  the  cream  and  milk  are  sterilized. 

Try  the  cream  without  any  flavoring  and  see  how  delicious  it  is. 

Use  wet  snow  instead  of  ice  for  freezing  in  the  winter.  It 
works  even  better  and  is  less  trouble. 

Beat  the  cream  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  after  removing  the 
dasher. 

Add  fruit  or  nuts  to  cream  when  removing  the  dasher,  so  that 
they  will  not  become  hard  as  they  would  do  if  frozen  with  the 
cream. 

For  freezing,  have  the  ingredients  cold.  Have  the  ice  very 
fine;  the  finer  it  is,  the  better  the  results.  One-third  as  much 
rock  salt  should  be  at  hand.  The  ice  and  salt  may  be  mixed, 
or  may  be  put  around  the  freezer  in  the  proportion  of  3  inches 
of  ice  to  I  inch  of  salt. 

[402] 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


ICES  403 

First,  adjust  the  freezer,  having  the  mixture  to  be  frozen  in 
the  can.  Fill  not  over  %  full  to  allow  for  expansion.  Then 
pack  with  the  ice  and  salt,  turning  the  handle  around  once  in 
a  while  during  the  operation,  to  keep  the  mixture  from  freezing 
to  the  sides  of  the  can.  Have  a  stick  to  pound  the  ice  and  salt 
down  well  around  the  can. 

Turn  slowly  at  first  to  make  a  fine  grain,  then  more  rapidly 
as  the  cream  thickens. 

Before  removing  the  cover  to  take  out  the  dasher,  scrape  away 
the  ice  and  salt  and  wipe  off  the  water  on  the  lid  and  near  the 
top  of  the  can,  so  that  none  can  possibly  get  into  the  cream. 
Beat  the  cream  and  replace  the  cover,  with  a  clean  cork  in  the 
top.  Drain  off  a  part  of  the  water  and  repack  the  can,  using 
less  salt  than  at  first,  sometimes  not  any,  so  as  not  to  have  the 
cream  too  hard.  To  be  at  its  best,  cream  should  be  stiff  enough 
only  to  hold  its  shape.  Cover  with  paper,  a  blanket  or  carpet 
and  let  stand  to  '  'ripen"  for  2  hours  or  longer.  This  part  is  im- 
portant, as  the  flavor  and  texture  are  perfected  only  by  standing. 

If  possible,  open  the  can  in  an  hour  and  a  half  and  stir  the 
cream  so  that  the  soft  center  comes  to  the  edge  of  the  can. 
Repack  and  cover  the  same  and  let  stand  for  2  or  3  hours. 

Save  the  salt  from  the  bottom  of  the  freezer  to  use  another 
time,  and  it  is  a  good  plan  to  save  a  little  of  the  thick  saltwater 
to  use  instead  of  the  last  layer  of  salt  near  the  top  of  the  can 
for  the  next  freezing,  as  it  facilitates  the  work  very  much. 

In  serving,  dip  the  spoon  into  hot  water  each  time  before 
putting  it  into  the  cream;  this,  with  care,  will  give  a  nice  shaped 
serving. 

Pop  corn  without  butter  or  salt  is  more  suitable  to  serve  with 
ice  cream  than  cake. 

Sugar  syrup  gives  a  finer,  smoother  and  more  substantial  grain 
to  frozen  fruits,  sherbets  and  water  ices  than  sugar  and  water, 
and  they  do  not  melt  as  quickly  when  exposed  to  the  air. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


404  THE   LAUREL 

Pack  all  ices  the  same  as  creams  and  let  stand  the  same  after 
freezing,  to  become  smooth  and  mellow. 

For  water  ices,  do  not  turn  the  crank  continuously.  Turn 
slowly  and  rest  between,  until  the  ice  becomes  quite  stiff.  This 
is  the  rule,  but  for  a  change  the  freezer  may  be  turned  rapidly 
and  continuously,  with  a  different  result. 

Stir  sherbets  constantly.  Serve  both  sherbets  and  water  ices 
in  glasses. 

Vegetable  gelatine  is  an  improvement  to  ices,  giving  body  to 
them. 

There  is  a  great  difference  in  freezers.  Be  sure  to  get  a  good 
one.  The  construction  of  the  dasher  has  much  to  do  with  the 
texture  of  the  cream.  Those  that  freeze  the  quickest  are  not 
necessarily  the  best. 

Do  not  buy  a  small  freezer:  you  can  freeze  a  small  quantity 
in  a  large  freezer,  but  you  cannot  freeze  a  large  quantity  in  a 
small  freezer. 

ir  The  "Laurel"  loe  Cream 
2}^  pts.  heavy  cream 
2j^  pts.  whole  milk 

Stir  the  flour  smooth  with  some  of  the  cold  milk  and  heat  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  with  the  cream  and  sugar,  in  a  double 
boiler  and  when  hot,  set  over  the  fire.  Let  it  boil  up  quickly, 
stir  in  the  flour  and  when  boiling  all  through,  return  to  the  double 
boiler  for  a  few  minutes,  beating  well.  Or,  heat  the  milk  and 
cream  only  in  the  double  boiler  and  pour  gradually,  stirring, 
over  the  sugar  and  flour  which  have  been  mixed  together.  Re- 
turn to  boiler  and  cook  for  10-15  m.  Turn  through  a  fine  wire 
strainer  into  a  large  pan  to  cool  quickly;  stir  while  cooling. 

Do  not  take  too  lai^e  measures  of  flour. 

Any  kind  of  cream  may  be  made  from  this.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  for  vanilla  cream,  or  tint  pink  and  flavor  with  ^-1 
teaspn.  of  strawberry  extract  for  strawberry  cream,  or  with  a 
few  drops  of  rose,  for  rose  cream.     Tint  green  and  flavor  with 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ICES  405 

almond  and  vanilla  for  pistachio  cream,  using  only  a  few  drops 
of  almond  to  a  teaspn,  of  vanilla.  This  may  have  a  few  shred- 
ded almonds  stirred  into  the  frozen  cream. 

Sometimes  sprinkle  fresh  grated  cocoanut  over  each  serving 
of  cream,  or  the  cocoanut  may  be  stirred  in  as  other  flavorings  are. 

A  very  pretty  cream  is  one  with  citron  and  candied  cherries 
cut  into  tiny  pieces  and  added  when  the  dasher  is  removed. 

We  make  a  fruit  and  nut  cream  which  is  liked  very  much,  by 
adding  well  washed  English  currants,  raisins  cut  in  quarters, 
citron  in  small  pieces  and  coarse  chopped  English  walnuts  or  pe- 
cans.    Omit  the  nuts  for  a  fruit  cream. 

For  coffee  cream,  steep  (not  boil)  cereal  coffee  in  milk  for  10 
to  20  m.  Strain  through  a  cloth  and  use  as  plain  milk  with  the 
cream.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

One  quart  of  sweetened,  crushed  strawberries  or  raspberries 
added  to  the  recipe  makes  the  right  proportion  for  fruit  cream. 
Drained,  finely-shredded  or  grated  pineapple  makes  a  general 
favorite  in  cream. 

Haple  loe  Cream 
I  qt.  genuine  maple  syrup  i  qt.  light  cream 

I  qt.  heavy  cream  H  qt.  milk 

7  tablespns.  flour 

Iiomou  loe 

8-12  tablespns.  lemon  2H  cups  sugar 

I  orange  [juice  1  qt.  water  including  the 

H  oz.  vegetable  gelatine  [gelatine 

Soak  and  cook  gelatine  according  to  directions  (p.  335),  add 
water  to  make  i  cup,  keep  warm;  cook  sugar  and  3  cups  of 
water  together  for  5  minutes  and  strain  into  the  gelatine.  Pre- 
pare the  lemon  and  orange  juice,  and  if  desired,  shave  off  a  lit- 
tle of  the  thin  yellow  rind  and  let  it  stand  in  the  juice  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  strain  it  out.  When  the  gelatine  mixture  is  par- 
tially cooled,  add  the  juice  gradually,  stirring.  The  orange  may 
be  omitted. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


406  THE   LAUREL 

Or,  omit  gektine,  boil  sugar  with  I  qt,  of  water  and  when 
cool  combine  with  the  juice. 

Orange  loe 
I  pt.  sugar  I  pt.  of  orange  juice 

I  qt.  water  6-8  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

H  oz.  vegetable  gelatine 

Flavor  juice  with  thin  yellow  rind  of  orange  and  proceed  as  in 
lemon  ice,  omitting  gelatine  if  preferred. 
Baspberry  loe 

1  cup  raspberry  juice  i  pt.  water 

K  cup  sugar  (less  if  2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

juice  is  already  sweetened)        i  sixteenth  oz.  vegetable 

Cook  sugar  and  water  together  and  add  to  prepared  gelatine. 
When  nearly  cool,  add  raspberrj'  juice  and  stir  occasionally  until 
cool.      Freeze. 

Currant  and  Baspberry  loe 

2  cups  currant  juice  i  pt.  water 

I  cup  raspberry  juice  i-rj4  cup  sugar 

^  oz.  gelatine,  or  not 

Proceed  as  in  Raspberry  Ice. 

Use  cherry,  strawberry,  quince,  gooseberry,   grape  or  pine- 
apple for  ices,  varying  the  proportion  of  sugar  and  water  accord- 
ing to  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit.      Pineapples  should  be  grated 
and  with   the  lemon  juice   added  to  cold  syrup  and  strained 
through  a  sieve.     Pineapple  is  one  of  the  most  delightful  ices. 
Mint  loe 
Add  fine  cut  or  chopped  sp)earmint  to  lemon  ice  mixture  just 
before  freezing,  or  to  orange  ice  for  orange  mint  ice. 
ir  Grape  Sherbet 
iH-iH  cup  sugar  5-6  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  qt.  water,  scant  2  cups  grape  juice 

scant  }i  oz.  vegetable  whites  of  2  eggs 

gelatine  2  tablespns.  powdered  sugar 

Flavor  the  sugar  with  oil  of  lemon  if  desired,  and  boil  with 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ICES  407 

the  water  for  S  m.  only.  Prepare  the  gelatine  with  a  scant  cup 
of  water,  and  add  to  warm  syrup;  cool;  add  lemon  and  grape 
juice,  stirring.  Put  into  freezer  and  stir  for  15  m.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  until  light  but  not  stiff;  add  the  powdered  sugar 
and  beat  2  m.,  add  to  the  sherbet  in  the  freezer  and  finish  freez- 
ing. Ripen  from  2  to  4  hours.  This  sherbet  is  of  a  beautiful 
lavender  color  when  finished. 

Substitute  other  fruit  juices  for  the  grape,  varying  the  quantity 
of  sugar.  Red  raspberry  is  better  in  water  ice,  as  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  Sfjoil  its  flavor. 

■k  Hint  Sherbet 
I  qt,  water  white  of  i  large  or  a  small  eggs 

1%  cup  sugar  1%  tablespn.  powdered  sugar 

5-7  good-sized  stalks  of  mint  scant  }i  oz.  vegetable  gelatine 

Yi-yi  cup  lemon  juice  scant  cup  of  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  and  add  to  gelatine  prepared  with  the  scant 
cup  of  water.  When  cool,  add  stirring,  the  lemon  juice  and  fine 
cut  or  chopped  mint.  Stir  in  freezer  1 5  m.  Add  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  with  powdered  sugar  as  in  grape  sherbet  and  finish  freez- 
ing.     Ripen. 

Pineapple  Sherbet,  or  Frozen  Pineapple 
1%  pint  fine  ground  pineapple  %  oz.  gelatine 

large  2^  cups  sugar  iJ^-2  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

1  qt.  liquid,  gelatine  and  all  whites  of  2  e^gs 

2  tablespns.  powdered  sugar 

Shred  and  grind  nice,  ripe  pineapples.     Prepare  gelatine  with 

1  cup  of  water  and  add  more  to  make  i  %  cup.      Cook  sugar  and 

2  j4  cups  of  water  together  for  5  m.  and  add  to  gelatine.  When 
nearly  cool,  combine  with  pineapple  and  lemon  juice;  cool;  stir 
in  freezer  for  IJ  m.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  powdered 
sugar  and  finish  freezing.     Ripen. 

Hina'B  Lemon  and  Orange  Sherbets 
Lemon — 4  lemons  1  qt.  water 

4  oranges  whites  of  4,  or  less,  eggs 

I  lb.  sugar  M  oz.  of  vegetable  gelatine 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


400  THE   LAUREL 

Orangt — lo  oranges  i  qt.  water 

I  lemon  whites  of  4,  or  less,  eggs 

I  pt.  sugar  yk  oz.  vegetable  gelatine 

Follow  directions  for  Grape  Sherbet. 

Frosen  StrawbenieB 

1  qt.  berries  3  or  4,  tablespns.  lemon 

2  cups  sugar  i  qt.  water  [juice 

Add  I  cup  of  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice  to  well  mashed  berries. 
Let  stand  in  ice  box  1-2  hours.  Boil  water  and  remaining  sugar 
together  for  5  m.,  cool,  add  to  berry  mixture,  freeze,  ripen. 
Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Frosen  Peaches 
I  qt.,  in  pieces,  of  nice  ripe  i  qt,  water 

i-i  J^cupsugar     [peaches  1-2  cups  cream 

Rub  measured  peaches  through  colander;  add  cold  syrup 
made  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  together  for  10  m.  Freeze. 
Stir  in  cream  whipped  and  slightly  sweetened,  when  dasher  is 
removed.     Repack  and  ripen. 

Frappds 

Frapp^s   are   partly  frozen  mixtures  of  fruit  juices,  pulps  or 

fine  grated  fruits  and  when  not  too  sweet  are  excellent  in  fevers 

and  are  often  served  in  place  of  a  drink  or  a  sherbet  to  well 

people.     Of  course  they  are  served  in  glasses. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


CERBAL& 

"The  grains,  with  fruits,  nuts  and  vegetables  contain  all  the 
nutritive  properties  necessary  to  make  good  blood." 

"Those  who  eat  flesh  are  eating  grains  and  vegetables  at  sec- 
ond-hand; for  the  animal  receives  from  these  things  the  nutri- 
tion that  produces  growth.  " 

"The  life  that  was  in  the  grains  and  vegetables  passes  into  the 
eater.  We  receive  it  by  eating  the  flesh  of  the  animal.  How 
much  better  to  get  it  direct,  by  eating  the  food  that  God  pro- 
vided for  our  use." 

"Grains  used  for  porri(^e  or  mush  should  have  several  hours' 
cooking;  but  soft  or  liquid  foods  are  less  wholesome  than  dry 
foods  which  require  thorough  mastication." 

When  porridges  are  used,  something  dry  like  zwieback  or  crisp 
crackers  should  be  eaten  with  them  to  induce  mastication. 

Foods  containingstarch  should  be  well  insaHvated  by  thorough 
mastication  before  any  tart  foods  are  introduced  into  the  stomach, 
as  acid  hinders  the  digestion  of  starch. 

The  large  proportion  of  starch  contained  in  grains  is  changed 
to  sugar  in  the  process  of  digestion,  so  the  addition  of  more  sugar 
gives  an  excess  of  that  element,  overtaxing  the  liver  and  increas- 
ing the  tendency  to  fermentation,  since  both  starch  and  sugar 
are  substances  that  ferment  easily.  Then  if  milk,  another  easily 
fermented  food,  is  added  what  can  be  said  of  the  combination.' 
Besides:  "the  presence  of  a  considerable  amount  of  sugar  actually 
retards  the  digestion  of  starch." — Dr.  Kress. 

For  those  who  feel  that  they  cannot  at  once  forego  the  sweet, 

stir  in  a  few  sliced  dates  to  graham  porridge  or  sprinkle  them 

over  the  top  and  serve  with  nut  or  dairy  cream.     Chopped  figs 

or  stewed  raisins  may  also  be  used  the  same  with  different  cereals. 

C409] 


.b,Coo»^lc 


4IO  THE   LAUREL 

A  very  harmonious  combination  is  pearled  barley  cooked  with 
raisins.  Nice  ripe  blueberries  or  black  raspberries  may  be  served 
with  cereals, 

A  complete  meal  may  be  made  of  graham  or  any  preferred  por- 
ridge, blanched  almonds,  English  walnuts  or  pecans,  with  dates, 
figs  or  raisins.  The  combination  will  be  satisfying  without  any 
milk  or  cream. 

My  readers  will  many  of  them  be  surprised  to  find  that  cat- 
meal  and  some  other  porridges  are  delightful  served  with  cream 
sauce,  old-fashioned  milk  gravy,  macaroni  sauce  and  other  gra- 
vies; the  cooked  parched  grains  especially  so.  A  poached  e^ 
may  be  placed  on  each  serving  of  porridge,  with  or  without  sauce. 

Raw  rice  may  be  ground  coarse  or  fine  for  different  purposes. 

The  parched  grains  may  be  served  with  suitable,  sub-acid  fruits. 

The  toasted  breakfast  cereals  on  the  market,  prepared  without 
malt  or  any  additional  sweet  are  many  of  them  excellent  foods 
because  of  the  dextrinization  of  the  starch,  and  we  can  easily 
prepare  dextrintzed  grains  in  our  own  homes. 

Parched  Sweet  Com—the  Ideal  Cereal  Preparation 
Put  dried  sweet  corn  into  a  corn  popper,  iron  frying  pan  or 
round  bottomed  iron  kettle;  cover,  and  shake  over  the  fire  until 
the  grains  are  browned  and  puffed  up  nearly  round.  Served 
plain,  this  corn  supplies  a  complete  and  satisfying  food,  as  any 
one  will  find  who  sits  down  with  a  nice  fresh-parched  porridge 
dish  of  it  and  chews  it  until  it  is  fine  and  creamy  in  the  mouth. 
It  is  much  more  delicious  than  the  finest  popcorn.  It  may  be 
ground  and  eaten  in  cold  or  hot  milk,  nut  or  dairy,  and  it  may 
have  a  little  salt  and  sterilized  butter  mixed  with  it  while  it  is 
warm,  A  cup  of  cereal  coffee  or  tea-hygiene  with  a  dish  of 
parched  corn  makes  a  nice  luncheon  or  supper. 

The  corn  may  be  dried  on  the  cob  or  shelled  and  dried.  It 
may  often  be  bought  from  dealers  in  seeds,  after  the  planting 
season  is  over. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


CEREALS  411 

Parched  field  corn  is  a  good  nourishing  food  but  not  so  sweet 
and  tender.     It  is  usually  better  to  be  ground. 

One  doctor  says,  "I  could  travel  the  world  around  on  parched 
corn  and  never  want  grease  of  any  kind." 

It  is  well  understood  that  corn  and  oatmeal  are  the  richest  in 
oil  of  any  of  the  grains.  In  some  countries  the  soldiers  carry 
parched  corn  in  their  pockets  on  long  marches. 

Tolk--Egg 

Put  yellow  corn  meal  into  an  iron  kettle  or  saucepan  over  a 
moderate  fire;  stir  until  of  an  even  rich  brown  color.  Serve 
warm  or  cold  with  hot  or  cold  milk  or  cream.  The  donor  of 
this  recipe  says:  "When  I  was  a  child  this  was  considered  a 
great  dainty,  but  I  do  not  know  how  it  obtained  its  name  or 
where  we  learned  to  make  it." 

The  different  preparations  of  grains  may  all  be  parched  the 
same  as  sweet  corn  and  corn  meal  in  the  preceding  recipes.  If 
more  convenient  they  may  be  done  in  the  oven  but  the  flavor 
is  not  as  good.  Some  of  them  are  tender  enough  to  be  eaten 
dry  or  in  milk  without  any  further  preparation;  others  are  better 
to  be  ground  before  adding  the  milk  or  cream,  and  some  need  to 
stand  in  the  milk,  hot  or  cold,  for  a  time,  before  serving,  while 
others  (rice  especially)  require  cooking  after  parching.  Some 
are  better  cooked  in  milk. 

Fop-oom 

To  pop:  "Wet  the  corn  slightly  and  let  it  dry  on  the  stove; 
put  it  in  the  popper  while  it  is  hot  and  in  four  minutes  every 
kernel  should  be  turned  inside  out,  crisp  and  tender." — From 
a  clipping. 

Serve  the  popped  kernels  plain  with  nuts,  cereal  coffee,  tea- 
hygiene,  cream  or  milk,  or  sprinkle  delicately  with  salt  and  turn 
a  little  oil  or  melted  butter  over,  mixing  thoroughly. 

Put  together  the  poorly  popped  kernels  of  corn  and  all  the 
remains,  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  until  soft,  perhaps  over 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


412  THE   LAUREL 

night.  Then  add  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  }i  hour  or  so. 
Serve  with  cream  or  more  milk  if  necessary,  or,  cook  in  all  water 
and  serve  with  cream.  These  left-overs  may  be  ground  and 
soaked  in  milk  until  soft. 

Busk 

Dry  sHces  or  pieces  of  bread  in  the  oven  and  brown  delicately, 

grind  through  the  food  cutter  and  serve  in  milk  or  with  cream. 

Porridges 

"Some  people  degrade  these  foods  by  calling  them  mushes, 
a  horrible  name,  by  the  way;  the  good  English  word  porridge 
is  much  better,  and  porridge  is  not  gruel." — An  Editor. 

Unless  cereals  are  steamed,  they  should  be  cooked  in  a  double 
boiler  or  something  that  answers  the  same  purpose. 

A  flat  or  round  wire  batter  whip  is  the  best  for  stirring  the 
grain  into  the  water,  as  that  keeps  even  the  finest  flour  from 
becoming  lumpy. 

The  very  most  important  thing  in  making  porridges  is  to  have 
the  liquid  boiling  when  the  cereal  is  put  in.  If  it  stops  boiling 
while  the  grain  is  being  added  there  will  be  a  raw  taste  to  the 
porridge,  no  matter  how  long  it  cooks. 

Put  the  required  amount  of  water,  with  the  salt,  i  teaspn.  to 
a  quart  of  water,  into  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler.  Heat  the 
water  to  bubbling  boiling,  sprinkle  the  measured  grain  in  so  slowly 
as  not  to  stop  the  boihng  of  the  water,  stirring  continuously. 
Let  it  boil  up  well,  and  if  a  coarse  grain,  cook  over  the  fire  until 
it  thickens,  then  set  into  the  outer  boiler  containing  perfectly 
boiling  water  and  keep  it  cooking  rapidly  the  required  length  of 
time. 

Do  not  stir  after  the  grain  thickens.  Watch  that  the 
outer  boiler  does  not  become  dry.  Grains  for  breakfast  may  be 
cooked  while  you  have  a  fire  the  day  before,  then  all  that  is 
necessary  in  the  morning  is  to  set  the  inner  boiler  into  the  outer 
one  containing  boiling   water  and    heat    it   through.     If  there 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CEREALS  413 

should  be  water  standing  on  top  of  the  porridge,  pour  it  oR  before 
heating,  but  under  no  circumstances  stir  the  porridge,  or  add  any 
more  water  while  heating,  or  a  pasty,  tasteless  dish  will  be  the 
result. 

When  the  porridge  is  to  be  re-heated,  a  slightly  larger  propor- 
tion of  water  should  be  used,  and  for  steaming,  a  smaller  quantity. 

One  advant^e  in  steaming  is  that  the  cereal  {after  being 
started  over  the  fire  in  some  suitable  utensil)  can  be  turned  into 
an  earthen  dish  and  set  into  the  steamer,  wanned  in  the  morn- 
ing and  sent  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 

Farina,  cream  of  wheat  and  similar  cereals  are  more  palatable 
and  nourishing  if  cooked  in  part  milk.  These  finer  preparations 
may  have  milk  or  cream  stirred  into  them  just  before  serving. 


Graham  Flour  . 
Rolled  Wheat  . 
Cracked  Wheat 
Pearled  Wheat 
Wholewheat  . 
Rolled  Oats  .  . 
Oatmeal  .  .  . 
Pearled  Barley 
Hominy,  coarse 
Hominy,  fine 
Corn  Meal  .  . 
Rice 


I  part  to  2  or  3  of  water  . 
I  part  to  2  or  3  of  water  . 
I  part  to  4H  5  oi  water  . 
I  part  to  4  or  4/^  of  water  . 
I  part  to  6  of  water  . 

I  part  to  2  or  3  of  water  . 
I  part  to  4  or  4/^  of  water  . 
I  part  to  5  of  water  . 

I  part  to  5  of  water  . 

I  part  to  4  or  5      of  water  . 
I  part  to  3  or  5 
I  part  to  3  or  4 


of  water  . 
of  water  . 


.  cook  1-2  hrs. 
.  cook  3-4  hrs. 
.  cook  4-6  hrs. 
.  cook  4-6  hrs. 
.  cook  6-8  hrs, 
.  Cook  3-4  hrs, 
.  cook  4-6  hrs. 
.  cook  4-5  hrs. 
.  cook  6-8  hrs. 
.  cook  4-6  brs. 
.  cook  2-5  hrs. 
25m.-iX  hr. 


Farina 5  tablespns.  to  1  qt.  liquid i    hr. 

Different  lots  of  graham  flour  and  rolled  oats  vary,  so  that  it 
is  not  possible  to  make  an  exact  rule  (or  them,  but  graham  flour 
should  be  stirred  into  water  until  the  mixture  is  quite  stiff  be- 
cause it  grows  thinner  by  cooking. 

Rye  meal  makes  one  of  the  most  delightful  porri<%es.  Stir 
the  meal  slowly  into  boiling  salted  water,  the  same  as  graham 
flour,  and  cook  for  r  hour  at  least. 


.b,Coot^lc 


414  Ti^^   LAUREL 

Whole  wheat  is  a  very  satisfying  and  inexpensive  food. 
Some  famihes  buy  it  by  the  bushel  and  use  large  quantities  of  it 
in  different  ways.  Some  put  the  boiled  wheat  intobreadsponge 
before  mixing  it  up. 

Different  kinds  of  corn  meal  vary,  too.  Only  about  %  or  % 
as  much  granular  meal  is  required  for  a  given  amount  of  liquid 
as  of  other  kinds. 

Oatmeal  is  difficult  of  digestion,  is  apt  to  cause  fermentation 
and  should  be  partaken  of  sparingly  even  when  well  cooked, 
except  by  those  of  strong  digestive  powers.  One  young  man 
said  in  my  presence,  "I  never  know  I  have  a  stomach  except 
when  I  eat  oatmeal." 

Cracked  wheat  is  very  nice  cooked  with  an  extra  quantity  of 
water,  molded  and  served  cold. 

With  a  Vegetarian  Society  mill  delightful  cracked  wheat  and 
many  other  cereal  foods  can  be  made. 

Cracked  corn — samp — grits — hominy,  is  a  valuable  food.  Be- 
sides the  package  preparations  I  have  bought  it  at  feed  stores  in  the 
East  and  obtained  it  from  the  mills  in  the  West,  and  with  a  mill 
it  can  be  made  at  home.  It  should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  The 
old-fashioned  way  is  to  put  it  into  a  round  bottomed  iron  kettle 
with  salt  and  plenty  of  water  (adding  more  water  when  neces- 
sary) and  cook  it  all  day.  It  may  be  served  with  milk,  butter 
or  gravy,  or  with  any  of  the  sauces  used  for  macaroni,  and  may 
be  cooked  with  tomato  and  onion  the  same  as  pilau,  p.   131. 

BICE 

"Rice  is  the  most  easily  digested  of  all  the  cereals.  The 
Japanese,  famous  for  their  athletic  superiority  and  wonderful  en- 
durance, use  rice  unpolished.  The  rice  of  commerce  is  not  only 
stripped  of  much  of  its  most  desirable  qualities,  but  in  order  to 
make  it  attractive  it  is  coated  with  glucose  and  talc  to  produce 
the  pearly  appearance.  Persons  using  such  rice  should  be 
careful  to  wash  it  thoroughly.     After  otice  eating   unpolished 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CEREALS  415 

rice,  the  rice  of  commerce  will  never  again  be  accepted.  To 
eat  polished  rice  is  like  eating  shavings  instead  of  real,  satisfying 
substance." — Henry  S.  Clubb,  President  Vegetarian  Society  of 
America,  in  "Life  and  Health."  and  "^^  The  Vegetarian.^' 

Wash  commercial  rice  in  several  waters,  scrubbing  it  thor- 
oughly with  the  hands,  in  a  colander  set  in  a  pan  of  water, 
rinsing  the  colander  up  and  down.  Then  put  it  over  the  fire  in 
cold  water,  boil  for  5  m.  and  drain,  before  cooking  after  any  of 
the  methods. 

To  Boil  Bioe 

After  washing  and  parboiling  rice,  throw  it  into  3  or  4  times  its 
bulk  of  boiling  salted  water,  stir  it  over  a  hot  fire  until  it  rolls 
up  in  the  rapidly  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  in  this  way  until  it 
swells,  then  set  into  the  outer  boiler  or  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
on  a  pad  until  it  is  perfectly  tender.  If  rice  is  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler,  use  the  smaller  quantity  of  water,  and  the  larger 
if  cooked  altogether  over  the  fire.  Do  not  stir  after  it  begins  to 
swell.     This  is  practically  the  Japanese  method. 

Another  Japanese  way  is  to  soak  the  rice  over  night,  drain  and 
put  to  cooking  in  an  equal  quantity  of  boiling  water,  keeping 
closely  covered  all  of  the  time. 

Chinese  Way  of  Cooking  Riae 
After  washing,  put  rice  over  the  fire  in  double  its  bulk  of  cold 
water,  let  it  boil  up  well,  carefully  lift  cover  to  see  if  water  is 
all  absorbed;  if  not,  drain,  sprinkle  salt  over  if  desired  {the  Chi- 
naman does  not  use  it),  return  to  fire  closely  covered  and  watch, 
listening  until  a  faint  crackling  of  parching  grains  at  the  bottom 
is  heard;  then  remove  to  the  back  of  the  range  where  the  rice 
will  just  steam — "steam  fragrant,"  When  ready  to  serve,  care- 
fully stir  the  grain  with  a  wooden  skewer  or  some  small  round 
stick,  when  the  snowy  mass  should  crumble  apart  into  indis- 
tinct kernels.  "Try  the  Chinaman's  way  and  be  convinced 
that  plain  boiled  rice  is  a  palatable,  substantial  food." — Adapted 
fromMrs.  f.N.  Anderson. Canton,  China,  in"  Life  and  Health." 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


4l6  THE    LAUREL 

The  Indian  Wmy 

Wash  the  rice,  put  little  by  little  into  8  times  its  bulk  (2  qts. 
to  a  cup)  of  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Stir  occasionally  at 
first  with  a  fork  until  the  rice  is  rolling  up  continuously  front 
the  rapid  boiling.  Cook  until  tender,  ii;-25  m.,  according  to 
the  ^e  and  quality  of  the  rice.  Be  sure  to  cook  it  until  it  is 
tender  but  not  a  moment  longer.  Drain  in  a  fine  colander, 
pour  cold  water  over  to  separate  the  kernels,  put  into  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  to  be  served  and  set  in  a  steamer  or  in  the  edge  of 
the  oven  for  a  half  hour.  The  water  drained  from  the  rice  may 
be  used  for  soup. 

To  Steam  Bioe 

After  washing,  soak  I  cup  of  rice  in  i  %  cup  of  warm  water 
for  an  hour  or  longer,  in  a  dish  suitable  for  serving  it  in.  Add 
I  level  teaspn.  of  salt  and  i  cup  of  milk  and  steam,  without  stir- 
ring, for  just  I  hour.  Serve  at  once,  or  if  it  has  to  stand,  cover 
close  so  that  the  top  kernels  will  not  become  hard. 

All  milk  may  be  used  by  taking  2^-3  cups.  If  the  milk  fills 
the  dish  so  that  it  is  just  ready  to  run  over,  the  rice  when  steamed 
will  stand  snowy  white  above  the  top  of  the  dish. 

ir  Baked  Bioe 

A  nice  supper  or  luncheon  dish  or  dessert. 
)i-H  cup  rice  H  teaspn,  salt  2  qts.  rich  milk 

Parboil  rice  §  m.  and  drain,  add  it  to  milk  in  pudding  dish, 
stir  even  in  bottom  of  dish,  set  in  slow  oven,  cover  and  bake 
2-3  hrs.  without  stirring,  or  until  milk  is  all  thickened  and 
creamy  with  rice;  if  the  milk  boils  over  under  the  cover,  the 
oven  is  too  hot.  This  is  so  delicious  that  it  does  not  require 
anything  additional  in  eating  but  it  may  be  served  with  sugar, 
maple  sugar  or  syrup. 

Farohed  Bioe 
Wash  if  commercial  rice,  spread  on  tin  and  put  in  warm  place 
to  dry.     When  throughly  dried,  put  in  slow  oven  and  color  to 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CEREALS  417 

an  even  light  brown.  Soak  for  i  hour  in  an  equal  quantity  of  luke- 
warm water,  then  add  3  times  the  quantity  of  rich  milk,  with  or 
without  I  level  teaspn.  salt  to  the  cup  of  rice;  steam,  or  cook  in 
double  boiler  for  i  hour.     Serve  plain.     The  rice  may  be  ground. 

OraneUa-to  Serve 

Pour  just  enough  hot  water  over  granella  to  moisten  it  a  trifle. 

Mix  lightly  and  serve  with  cream.     Granella  is  nice  in  hot  milk. 

Baked  Hominy 

I  cup  cold,  fine  hominy  porridge  i  pt.  milk 

I  teaspn.  butter  salt 

1  teaspn.  sugar  3  eggs 

Mix  hominy  and  yolks  of  e^s  thoroughly;  add  melted  butter, 
then  sugar  and  salt  and  the  milk  gradually,  mixing  hominy  to 
smooth  paste.  Chop  in  stiffly-beaten  whites  and  bake  in  buttered 
dish  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  as  vegetable  for  dinner  or  as 
principal  dish  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

To  Hull  Com 

2  gallons  cold  water,  i  tablespn.  concentrated  lye  or  potash, 
4  qts.  corn,  white  corn  if  possible.  Dissolve  lye  in  water,  add 
corn,  and  boil  (adding  water  to  keep  covered)  until  the  hulls  will 
rub  off.  Wash  and  rub  in  several  clear  waters  until  the  hulls 
are  all  off.  Soak  over  night  or  for  several  hours  in  cold  water; 
drain  and  put  to  cooking  in  boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender, 
all  day  if  necessary.  Add  salt  a  little  while  before  it  is  done, 
then  cook  until  as  dry  as  possible  without  scorching.  Serve 
as  a  vegetable,  plain,  or  with  cream  or  cream  sauce.  Eat  in 
milk  or  with  nut  meats. 

The  hulled  corn  may  be  dried.  Hard  wood  ashes  may  be 
used  to  make  the  lye  for  cooking  the  corn,  or  a  bag  containing 
2  cups  of  ashes  may  be  boiled  in  the  kettle  with  the  corn. 
By  boiling  for  4  hrs.,  the  hulls  may  be  removed  by  using  1 
tablespn.  of  soda  to  each  4  qts.  of  corn.  Some  prefer  strong 
Ume  water  for  hulling. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


4T8  the  laurel 

Instead  of  soaking  over  night,  the  corn  may  be  |»rboiled  in  2 
waters  before  cooking, 

ir  Granella  Ho.  l— wheat,  oom  and  oat« 
/4  lb.  (2  cups)  bread  flour     ■       /4  oz,  (i  J^  tablespn.)  common 
I  oz.  (scant  a  cup)  rolled  yellow  corn  meal      trifle  salt 

oats  about  f^  cup  cold  water 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  to  ^  of  the  quantity  add  water  for  a 
stiff  dough,  then  work  in  the  remaining  X  until  almost  too  stiff 
to  knead;  roll  and  pound  out  to  X  ^i"  K  inch  thick,  cut  in  round 
or  square  biscuit  and  set  in  cold  place  for  2  hours  or  more. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  rich  cream  color  or  golden  brown 
all  through.     Then  grind  coarse  or  line  as  desired. 

When  oat  _^our  is  used,  ^  of  a  cup  only  will  be  required. 

It  will  take  2  tablespns.  of  Rhode  Island  meal  to  make  %  oz. 
and  I  only  of  yellow  granular  meal.  The  granular  meal  will 
need  to  be  scalded  with  a  part  of  the  water  or  it  will  feel  sandy 
in  the  granella. 

The  weights  for  a  larger  quantity  are: 

&yi  lbs.  bread  flour,  i  lb.  oats,  J4  ib.  corn  meal,  1%  oz.  salt. 

Granella  No.  2~Tioe,  wheat  and  barley 
}i  cup  rice  H  cup  barley  grits 

2ji  cups  bread  flour  salt 

water 

Cook  rice  in  one  cup  water,  cool,  add  salt,  flour  and  grits, 
knead  to  very  stiff  dough,  adding  a  trifle  more  water  if  neces- 
sary.    Finish  as  No.  i. 

j4  cup  r\c&  flour,  i  %  cup  bread  flour  and  K  cup  barley  grits 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  above  combination. 

Granella  No.  S~rye,  wheat  and  barley 
J^  cup  rye  meal  1  cup  barley  grits 

2   cups  bread  flour  salt 

Granella  No.  4~rye,  wheat  and  oom 
%  cup  rye  meal  1-2  tablespns.  corn  meal 

a  cups  bread  flour  salt 

water 


o,Goo<^lc 


UACABONI  (ITALIAN  PASTE) 


Macaroni  is  one  of  the  most  important  of  cereal  foods.  The 
best — Italian — is  made  from  a  wheat  rich  in  gluten,  so  to  a  great 
extent  it  supplies  the  place  of  meat. 

One  of  the  first  things  we  do  when  we  go  into  a  new  place  is 
to  hunt  up  an  Italian  macaroni  store,  as  that  is  the  only  place 
where  the  genuine  article  is  to  be  found.  That  made  in  this 
country,  put  up  with  a  foreign  label  on  the  package,  is  inferior. 

The  Italian  pastes  come  in  a  great  variety  of  shapes  and  are 
named  according  to  the  shape.  Macaroni,  spaghetti  and  ver- 
micelli are  well  known;  then  there  are  lasagne  (broad  and  flat), 
rigatoni  (large  corrugated),  da  natali,  ditali  rigati,  cannaroni 
rigatt  and  reginnetti  with  mostacioli  bianchi,  soprafini  (fine 
vermicelli),  ditalini  and  acini  di  pepe — a  few  of  the  many.  There 
are  some  small  fine  pastes  put  up  in  dainty  boxes,  especially  for 
invalids,  that  are  very  delicate  and  digestible. 

Those  who  have  visited  macaroni  factories  in  Italy  where 
macaroni  is  made  for  exportation,  say  that  everything  in  con- 
nection with  the  food  is  neat  and  clean  and  that  the  macaroni 
is  dried  in  closed  rooms  entirely  removed  from  the  dust  of  the 
street.  That  which  travellers  see  drying  by  the  roadside,  ex- 
posed to  the  dust,  is  from  small  or  private  factories  for  home 
consumption. 

To  Cook  Uaoaroni 

Do  not  wash  or  soak  it.  Break  it  when  necessary  and  put 
into  perfectly  boiling  salted  water,  8  parts  water  to  i  of  maca- 
roni. Stir  as  soon  as  it  is  put  into  the  water  and  often,  until  it 
begins  to  roll  up,  from  the  rapid  boiling.  Keep  over  a  hot  fire 
where  it  will  continue  to  roll  in  boiling  until  well  swollen  and 
nearly  done,  then  set  back  to  simmer  slowly.     When  perfectly 

[419] 

U.q.l,ZI^b,CjOOl5lC 


420  THE    LAUREL 

tender  (which  will  be  in  from  j4  to  i  hour  according  to  the  size, 
age  and  quality,  the  better  quality  taking  longer)  turn  into  a  col- 
ander and  when  drained,  turn  cold  water  over  it,  or,  let  it  stand 
in  cold  water  until  ready  to  use. 

Vermicelli  and  the  other  small  varieties  for  soup  require  only 
twice  their  bulk  of  water,  and  some  of  them  require  lo  m.  only 
for  cooking.     They  will  usually  just  absorb  the  water. 

When  preferred,  macaroni  may  be  cooked  in  just  the  amount 
of  liquid  it  will  absorb,  which  will  be  about  4  times  its  bulk.  It 
may  be  cooked  sometimes  in  a  rich  consomm^,  sometimes  in 
milk  in  a  double  boiler,  or  in  milk  and  water.  It  is  often  partly 
cooked  in  water,  drained  and  finished  in  milk. 

The  "traditional"  way  of  cooking  spaghetti  is  to  put  the  ends 
into  water  and  coil  it  around  in  the  kettle  as  it  softens,  cooking 
in  full  lengths  and  eating  it  the  same,  but  the  propriety  of  this 
method  is  questionable.  In  the  first  place,  its  sauce  is  apt  to  spatter 
in  the  effort  to  introduce  the  coil  into  the  mouth,  and  mastication 
is  sure  to  be  incomplete. 

The  measurements  of  macaroni  vary  according  to  the  size. 
For  a  large  open  variety,  a  cup  and  a  half  will  be  required  where 
it  would  take  only  a  cup  of  a  small  kind,  or  of  the  ordinary  pipe- 
stem  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths. 

There  is  nothing  that  gives  such  character  to  macaroni  as  to 
cook  a  little  garlic  with  it,  a  very  little  for  some  tastes,  not 
more  than  %  a  clove  to  each  cupful,  less  even,  if  the  macaroni 
is  not  to  be  drained  and  the  cloves  are  large.  We  seldom  cook 
any  preparation  of  macaroni  without  it,  and  people  wonder  why 
our  macaroni  has  such  a  good  taste.  Not  enough  should  be  used 
to  give  a  positive  garlic  flavor. 

Pine  nuts  and  sour  cream  give  the  cheese  flavor.  A  good 
quality  of  macaroni  is  good  without  any  sauce,  just  cooked  in 
salted  water  and  eaten  slowly  with  nuts;  but  it  may  be  served 
with  any  desired,  tasty  sauce.  The  mushroom  sauces,  Italian 
or  Boundary  Castle  are  especially  delightful  with  it,  but  many 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


MACARONI  4^1 

others  are  excellent,  olive  and  nut  butter,  old-fashioned  milk 
gravy,  lentil  gravy,  a  go<>d  cream  sauce,  cream  of  tomato  sauce, 
or  any  of  the  nice,  meaty  flavored  sauces,  or  parsley  butter. 

Sometimes  return  macaroni  to  the  lire  after  draining,  and  add 
a  little  butter,  with  or  without  chopped  parsley,  for  those  who 
use  butter,  or  a  little  milk  and  butter  or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream. 
Then  another  time,  put  this  cream  or  butter  macaroni  into  a 
vegetable  dish  and  pour  a  few  hot  stewed  tomatoes  over  it. 
Baked  Macaroni  in  Cream  Bauoe 
i-i)^  cup  macaroni,  accord-  1-2  small  cloves  of  garlic 

ing  to  size  i  qt.  water 

3  small  onions  i/^-2  teaspns.  salt 

Sauce: — \%  tablespn.  oil  i  large  pt.  milk 

1/4  tablespn.  flour  salt,  crumbs 

chopped  parsley 
Make  cream  sauce  in  the  usual  way  with  the  oil,  flour,  salt 
and  milk  and  pour  into  baking  dish,  turn  into  it  the  macaroni 
which  has  been  cooked  in  the  salted  water  with  sliced  onion 
and  garlic  until  tender  and  the  water  absorbed,  and  press  down 
into  the  sauce;  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  parsley  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  bubbling  and  delicately  browned.  If  pre- 
ferred, %  cup  of  flour  may  be  used  in  the  sauce. 

Make  enough  of  this  dish  for  two  days,  and  another  day  stir 
salted  tomato  into  what  is  left  and  bake  as  before  for  Macaroni 
in  Tomato  Sauce, 

Uaoaroni— Fine  Nuts 
Add  J4  cup  of  pine  nut  butter  or  meal  to  the  sauce  in  the 
preceding  recipe  (by  mixing  a  little  of  the  sauce  with  it)  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  meats  and  crumbs. 
HaoaToni~Com 
Ji-i  cup  macaroni  i  small  onion 

3  cups  boiling  water  j4-i  small  clove  of  garlic 

i-iJS  teaspn.  salt  if  wished 

I  cup  canned,  or  stewed  fresh  corn 
Sauce: — i  cup  rich  milk  or  thin  cream  yi  tablespn.  flour 

%  teaspn.  salt 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


4^j  THE   LAUREL 

Add  corn  and  cooked  macaroni  to  sauce,  turn  all  into  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  pour  a  Httle  melted  butter  over 
if  sauce  is  made  with  milk.     Brown  in  oven. 

Browned  Haoaroni  and  Oranella 

I  cup  macaroni,  J^-i  cup  granella,  3  cups  rich  milk  (more  if 
necessary).  Dry  and  delicately  brown  macaroni  in  oven  and 
cook  the  same  as  unbrowned.  Put  into  baking  dish  in  layers 
with  granella,  turn  milk,  slightly  salted,  over  and  heat  in  mod- 
erate oven.  It  should  be  quite  moist  when  done.  Unless  the 
milk  is  about  one-fourth  cream,  there  may  be  a  little  oil  or  but- 
ter poured  over  the  top, 

Uaoaroni— Tomato  and  Onion 

Simmer  onion  in  oil  or  butter,  add  stewed  tomatoes  and  salt; 
simmer  a  few  minutes  and  add  cooked  macaroni;  set  back 
where  it  will  heat  slowly  for  a  short  time  and  serve. 

Tomatoes,  onions  and  macaroni  may  be  put  into  baking  dish 
in  layers,   with  a  sprinkling  of  pine  nut  meal;  with  tomatoes, 
crumbs  and  chopped  nuts  on  top,  and  baked. 
Vermicelli —Asparaeos 

Cook  vermicelli  in  salted  water,  drain,   spread  on  platter,  lay 
stalks  of  cooked  asparagus  on  it  and  pour  egg  cream  sauce  over. 
Cut  asparagus  into  inch  lengths  if  preferred. 
Maoaroni  in  Milk 

Heat  I  qt.  of  milk  in  inner  cup  of  double  boiler,  add  i  cup  of 
macaroni  and  cook  until  tender,  perhaps  for  2  hrs.  Serve  plain 
as  side  dish  or  for  luncheon  or  supper.  It  may  also  be  served 
with  stewed  raisins,  with  or  without  cream. 

i(  Cream  Uold  of  Haoaroni 

Cook  j4  cup  of  macaroni  with  or  without  a  few  slices  of  onion 
and  a  suspicion  of  garlic,  in  2  cups  of  water  with  ^4  tablespn. 
of  butter  until  tender  and  well  dried  out;  drain,  add  ^  cup  milk, 
I  large  egg  and  salt.  Turn  into  well  buttered  mold  and  bake  cov- 
ered in  pan  ofwaterinmoderateoven  until  e§g  is  set,  J^-i  hour. 
Serve  with  Boundary  Castle  or  any  suitable  sauce. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


ir  HaoaToni—Sonr  Cream 

2-3  cups  macaroni  i  teaspn.  salt 

I  pt.  sour  cream  (or  sour  milk  i  egg 

with  butter  or  oil) 

Add  beaten  egg  and  salt  to  cream  and  pour  over  cooked  mac- 
aroni in  baking  dish;  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  until  egg  is 
set. 

Rice  may  be  used  in  place  of  macaroni,  tomato  also  may  be 
be  added  sometimes  with  chopped  onion;  a  delicate  flavoring  of 
s^e  gives  another  variety. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


BREADS-LEATENED 

Teaat 

Yeast  is  a  plant  and  success  in  bread-making  depends  upon  its 
growth. 

Plants  require  warmth,  food  and  moisture  and  thrive  the  best 
when  not  too  warm  nor  too  cold. 

A  temperature  of  from  75  degrees  to  not  over  90  degrees  is 
the  most  favorable  for  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant. 

Compressed  yeast  is  the  most  convenient  to  use  when  it  can 
be  obtained  fresh,  but  the  bread  made  from  it  lacks  the  sweet 
rich  flavor  of  that  made  from  a  good  soft  yeast ;  so  from  the  great 
number  of  good  recipes  for  liquid  yeast  I  give  two  with  which  I 
have  had  excellent  success. 

Use  only  mature,  well  ripened  potatoes  for  yeast.  Hops  may 
be  omitted  but  the  yeast  keeps  better  and  the  bread  is  lighter 
and  sweeter  when  a  few  are  used. 

Keep  yeast  in  several  small  jars  rather  than  in  one  large  one, 
so  as  not  to  disturb  the  whole  when  using  from  it. 

Bread  rises  slowly  from  yeast  that  is  less  than  48  hours  old. 
When  liquid  yeast  is  used,  let  it  count  as  part  of  the  wetting. 
Compressed  yeast  is  meant  when  dry  is  not  specified  in  recipes 
calling  for  cakes  of  yeast. 

To  use  compressed  yeast,  slice  it  in  ratherthin  slices,  sprinkle 
sugar  between  the  layers  and  pour  just  enough  lukewarm  water 
over  it  to  moisten  the  sugar,  not  enough  to  cover  the  yeast. 
Let  stand  until  foamy  and  use  at  once. 

One  cake  of  compressed  yeast  equals  4  tablespns.  of  either 
grated  or  mashed  potato  yeast. 

[424] 


ovGoo<^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  43$ 

Orated  Potato  Teaat 
3  qts.  water  ^  cup  salt 

2  tablespns.  hops  i  cup  soft  yeast,  or  2 

6  medium  sized  or  3  very  cakes  of  good  dry 

large  potatoes  yeast  (yeast  foam 

K  cup  sugar  when  obtainable) 

Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  water  with  part  of  the  sugar.  Simmer 
the  hops  in  water  for  half  an  hour,  strain,  add  enough  water  to 
make  z  qts.  and  keep  at  boiling  point.  Put  sugar  and  salt  into 
a  large  granite  or  porcelain  kettle,  quickly  grate  the  pared  po- 
tatoes over  them,  set  the  kettle  over  the  fire  and  pour  the  boil- 
ing hop  water  on  to  the  mixture,  stirring;  let  boil  until  thick- 
ened, remove  from  fire,  cool  to  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast,  beat- 
ing it  in  well  and  let  stand  on  table  or  shelf  in  warm  kitchen ;  as 
it  rises,  stir  it  down  once  in  a  while;  when  well  risen,  set  in  a 
cool  place  and  stir  down  occasionally  until  it  does  not  rise  any 
more.  Fill  clean  cold  jars  about  %  full  and  when  settled,  fasten 
covers  on  and  put  in  ice  box. 

Use  1  tablespn.  of  yeast  to  each  pint  of  water  when  setting 
bread  over  night,  and  double  the  quantity  for  starting  in  the 
morning. 

Masbed  Potato  Teast 
1%  cup  smooth  mashed  potato         1  tablespn.  sugar 
I  tablespn.  loose  hops  i  teaspn.  salt 

5i  cup  of  water  in  which  potatoes  and  hops  were  boiled,  i 
cake  of  dry  yeast  dissolved  in  %  cup  of  water  with  a  little  of 
the  sugar,  or,  %  cup  of  hop  water  and   j4   cup  of  liquid  yeast. 

Tie  the  hops  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  cook  with  the  well 
washed  but  not  pared  potatoes  (the  yeast  is  lighter  if  the  skins 
are  left  on);  when  done,  drain  and  peel  potatoes  and  rub  through 
colander  on  to  the  salt  and  sugar;  beat  well,  pour  water  on  grad- 
ually, add  yeast,  beat,  put  into  a  clean  glass  jar,  lay  the  cover 
on  without  fastening  down  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  room  until 
fall  of  bubbles,  no  longer;  then  set  in  a  cold  place.  When 
thoroughly  cooled,  fasten  the  cover  tight  and  keep  in  refrigerator. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


426  THE   LAUBEL 

Use  }i-i4  cup  of  yeast  to  a  pint  of  liquid,  according  to  the 
time  you  wish  to  give  the  bread  to  rise. 

Dry  Teest 

1  cup  loose  hops  i  qt.  pared  potatoes  in  small 

2  qts.  water  flour  [pieces 

I  cup  com  meal 

Boil  potatoes  with  hops  tied  in  cheese  cloth  until  tender;  re- 
move hops  (squeezing  bag  when  cool),  put  potatoes  and  water 
through  colander,  and  stir  into  the  liquid  while  scalding  hot, 
enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Beat  well,  add  j4 
cup  of  yeast  or  2  dry  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  water.  When 
light,  add  the  cup  of  corn  meal  or  enough  to  make  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  roll;  roll  %-%  in.  thick,  cut  into  small  square  or 
round  cakes,  dry  in  the  sun  or  in  a  slightly  warm  oven  (they  are 
sometimes  dried  between  two  boards  covered  with  corn  meal) 
until  so  much  of  the  moisture  is  expelled  that  they  cannot 
ferment. 

If  kept  dry  the  cakes  will  retain  their  strength  for  a.  long  time. 
The  small  pieces  of  dough  may  be  crumbled  and  dried. 
Flour 

White,  graham  and  whole  wheat  are  the  flours  most  com- 
monly used  in  making  bread.  White  ^rea*^  flour  is  made  from 
spring  wheat,  which  is  richer  in  gluten  than  winter  wheat  and  is 
of  a  rich  cream  color. 

Winter  wheat  flour  is  more  suitable  for  cakes  and  pastrj',  and 
for  that  reason  is  called  pastry  flour. 

A  blended  flour,  spring  and  winter  wheat  combined,  is  con- 
sidered by  some  the  most  nearly  perfect  bread  flour. 

Graham  flour  is  composed  of  the  whole  kernel  of  the  wheat, 
its  bran  overcoat  and  all,  ground  up  together.  The  bran  con- 
tains no  nutriment  and  is  irritating  to  some  stomachs.  Graham 
flour  is  nearly  always  made  from  winter  wheat. 

In  making  whole  wheat  or  entire  wheat  flour,  the  bran  or  fi- 
brous covering  of  the  kernel  is  removed  and  the  entire  nourishing 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS—LEAVENED  427 

part  of  the  grain  is  ground.  Whole  wheat  flour  is  usually  made 
from  spring  wheat. 

Some  so-called  "whole  wheat"  flours  are  simply  very  fine 
graham;  that  is,  the  bran  is  all  there,  but  ground  very  fine. 

The  best  grades  of  flour  are  the  cheapest  as  a  smaller  quantity 
is  required  for  the  same  amount  of  liquid.  Good  flour  also  re- 
quires less  kneading. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  deception  has  been  practised  in  "gluten" 
flours.  Some  which  have  been  advertised  as  pure  gluten  have 
been  found  to  contain  as  high  as  63  and  75  per  cent,  of 
starch.  A  pure  gluten  flour  for  making  yeast  bread  is  out  of 
the  question. 

Flour  made  from  new  wheat  will  for  a  time  improve  with  age, 
but  after  a  certain  period  it  begins  to  deteriorate;  so  it  is  not 
best  to  lay  in  a  too  large  supply  at  once. 

Keep  flour  in  a  warm,  dry  place,  as  all  bread,  cakesand  pastry 
are  lighter  made  from  dry  flour. 

"For  use  in  bread-making  the  superfine  white  flour  is  not  the 
best.  Its  use  is  neither  healthful  nor  economical.  Fine  flour 
bread  is  lacking  in  nutritive  eleinents  to  be  found  in  bread  made 
from  the  whole  wheat.  It  is  a  frequent  cause  of  constipation 
and  other  unhealthful  conditions." 

BBEAD-YEABT 

Suggestiona 

Bread  should  not  be  set  over  night  when  there  is  the  least 
possibility  of  its  becoming  light  enough  to  fall  before  it  can  be 
attended  to  in  the  morning. 

Dough  mixed  stiff  at  first  requires  double  the  quantity  of 
yeast  of  that  started  with  a  sponge,  but  as  this  method  has 
several  advantages  it  is  becoming  the  favorite.  Beat  the  batter 
very  thoroughly  for  either  method,  as  that  has  much  to  do  with 
the  lightness  of  the  bread. 

Keep  bread  at  all  stages  at  as  even  a  temperature  as  possible 


428  THE   tjttlREL 

and  away  from  drai^hts  of  air.  A  large  pasteboard  box  is  ao 
excellent  thing  to  set  it  into. 

A  moist  atmosphere  is  most  favorable  for  raising  bread. 

Keep  bread  covered  close  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming 
over  the  top.     Paper  is  better  than  cloth  to  exclude  the  air. 

To  hasten  the  rising  of  bread,  use  a  larger  quantity  of  yeast 
rather  than  a  higher  temperature.  Above  90  degrees  the  bac- 
teria which  were  in  the  flour  or  yeast  may  begin  to  grow  and 
the  bread  will  be  sour.  Given  more  time  and  raised  at  a  lower 
temperature,  bread  will  be  sweeter  and  of  a  finer  texture. 

Attend  to  bread  at  every  stage  as  soon  as  light,  before  it  be- 
gins to  fail ;  exercise  especial  care  in  this  respect  with  compressed 
yeast  as  it  loses  its  life  very  quickly  after  becoming  light. 

Bread  will  rise  better  in  a  deep  vessel,  such  as  a  pail  or  a 
stone  crock,  than  in  a  broad  flat  pan.  Always  oil  the  dishes 
used  for  raising  it  in. 

Each  time  that  bread  rises  it  loses  some  of  its  sweetness  and 
nutritive  value,  so  the  fewer  times  it  is  allowed  to  rise  the  bet- 
ter, if  light  enough  to  be  digestible. 

Some  cooks  prefer  flour  that  has  been  delicately  browned  for 
setting  the  sponge  for  bread. 

A  good  bread  kneader  is  one  of  the  best  investments  in  cook- 
ing utensils.     It  saves  timeandstrengthand  makes  better  bread. 

"In  the  making  of  raised  or  yeast  bread,  milk  should  not  be 
used  in  place  of  water.  The  use  of  milk  is  an  additional  expense 
and  it  makes  the  bread  much  less  wholesome.  Milk  bread  does 
not  keep  sweet  solongafterbakingasdoes  that  made  with  water 
and  it  ferments  more  readily  in  the  stomach." 

In  cakes  and  crusts  where  milk  is  used  with  yeast,  sour  milk 
may  be  substituted  for  sweet  with  the  same  results. 

To  aid  fermentation,  a  little  sugar  may  be  used  m  starting 
bread,  but  not  enough  to  cover  the  sweet  taste  of  the  flour. 

At  a  great  altitude,  bread  rises  very  quickly;  and  requires  less 
yeast. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  429 

Do  not  allow  bread  to  get  over  light,  even  if  it  does  not  be- 
come sour;  for  the  sweet  taste  will  be  destroyed,  and  if  in  the 
loaf,  it  will  fall  in  the  oven. 

Whole  wheat  and  graham  bread  will  be  lighter  if  ^  white  flour 
is  used;  and  if  white  flour  alone  is  used  (or  the  sponge  the  bread 
will  not  be  so  apt  to  sour. 

Whole  wheat  and  graham  bread  need  to  be  mixed  stiffer  than 
white  and  must  not  be  allowed  to  become  very  light  or  they 
will  fall  in  the  oven  and  have  a  hollow  place  in  the  loaf. 

Bread  from  whole  wheat  and  graham  flour  requires  slower  and 
longer  baking. 

Whole  wheat,  graham  or  rye  bread  may  be  steamed  3  hours 
and  baked  slowly  %  hr.,  sometimes. 

Salt  delays  fermentation,  so  when  bread  is  started  with  a 
sponge  the  salt  should  not  be  added  until  the  sponge  is  light,  and 
it  may  be  worked  in  at  the  end  of  the  first  rising  of  the  mass  of 
dough. 

When  a  large  quantity  of  bread  is  made  at  a  time,  a  smaller 
proportion  of  yeast  is  required.  Stir  soft  yeast  well  before  using 
from  it.  Do  not  let  the  jar  of  yeast  stand  in  a  warm  kitchen 
for  a  few  minutes  even. 

It  is  impossible  to  give  an  exact  rule  for  the  proportion  of 
flour  to  liquid  in  bread  as  different  brands  of  flour  vary  and  the 
same  brand  may  be  dryer  or  more  moist  at  different  times;  but 
usually  not  less  than  three  times  as  much  flour  as  of  liquid  is 
required,  and  not  much  more. 

Near  the  sea  level  bread  dough  may  be  mixed  as  soft  as  it  can 
be  well  handled;  but  as  the  altitude  increases  the  stiffness  of  the 
dough  should  increase. 

Flour  must  be  warm  when  added  to  bread  at  any  stage. 

Do  not  add  any  flour  to  bread  after  the  last  rising  before  put- 
tii^  it  into  the  tins,  "as  all  the  flour  in  it  is,  in  a  fermentative 
sense,  cooked  and  the  addition  of  raw  flour  injures  its  quality." 
— Charles  Cristodoro.      Oil  the  board  and  your  hands  instead. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


430  THE    LAUREL 

"Bread  should  be  light  and  sweet,  not  the  least  taint  of  sour- 
ness should  be  tolerated.  The  loaves  should  be  small  and  so 
thoroughly  baked  that  so  far  as  possible,  the  yeast  germs  shall 
be  destroyed.  When  hot  or  new,  raised  bread  of  any  kind  is 
difficult  of  digestion.     //  should  never  appear  on  the  table. " 

The  loaves  should  be  baked  in  separate  tins,  brick  shaped 
ones  being  best.  If  the  loaf  feels  soft  on  the  sides  when  re- 
moved from  the  tin,  return  it  to  the  oven  for  it  is  not  done. 
When  done,  leave  loaves  where  the  air  can  circulate  around 
them  until  cool. 

Keep  bread  in  tin  or  stone  receptacles,  never  in  wood;  wash 
them  often  in  warm  soapsuds  and  scald  thoroughly. 

Never  cover  bread  in  the  box  with  a  cloth,  if  anything  is  re- 
quired, use  paper.     Cloth  causes  a  musty  taste  and  smell. 

Do  not  allow  crumbs  or  bits  of  bread  to  collect  in  the  box  or 
jar. 

To  freshen  stale  bread  or  buns,  place  them  in  a  hot  oven 
above  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  or  put  into  one  tin  and  cover  with 
another  and  leave  10-30  m.  according  to  size  of  loaf  and  heat 
of  oven. 

Rolls  are  sometimes  dipped  in  milk  or  water  and  heated  in 
the  oven ;  or,  put  into  a  paper  sack  and  left  in  the  oven  for  lo  m. 

White  Bread 
3-4,  tablespns.  liquid  yeast,  or  2  tablespns.  oil 

I  cake  compressed  yeast  i  teaspn.  sugar 

warm  water  to  make  i  qt.  of  liquid  i  teaspn.  salt 

3-3J4  qts.  flour 

Put  yeast  in  a  quart  measure  (compressed  yeast  will  have  been 
dissolved  according  to  directions)  and  fill  the  measure  with  warm 
water.  Turn  into  warm  mixing  bowl,  add  oil,  sugar  and  salt 
(sugar  may  be  omitted),  mingle,  add  flour  until  a  drop  batter  is 
formed ;  beat  vigorously  for  5  m.,  then  continue  to  add  flour. 
When  too  stiff  to  stir,  knead  on  molding  board  until  dough  is 


.b,Coo»^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  43I 

smooth  and  does  not  stick  to  the  board  by  deft  handling,  place 
in  a  well  oiled  deep  dish,  cover  well  and  let  stand  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  place  until  light.  It  may  now  be  folded  down  and 
turned  over  and  allowed  to  come  up  half  way  again,  or  be  put 
at  once  into  the  tins. 

Allow  bread  to  rise  in  tins  to  a  little  more  than  double  its  bulk 
(experience  will  do  more  for  one  in  determining  the  proper  de- 
gree of  lightness  than  any  recipe),  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven 
with  spaces  between  the  pans;  when  well  risen  and  moderately 
browned,  lower  the  temperature  of  the  oven  a  little  and  finish 
baking.  Cover  with  asbestos  sheets  or  paper  if  bread  is  in  dan- 
ger of  becoming  too  brown,  ^-t  hr.  will  be  required  for  bak- 
ing a  medium  sized  loaf. 

Fruit  Bread 

Use  double  the  quantity  of  oil  and  from  %-%  cup  of  sugar  in 

the  recipe  for  white  bread,  add  2  large  cups  of  seedless  raisins  or 

I  cup  each  of  raisins  and  currants.     Dates  or  figs  may  be  used 

when  preferred. 

Nut  Bread 
Use  2  cups  coarse  chopped  nuts  instead  of  fruit,  in  fruit  bread 
recipe.    Brown  sugar  may  be  used  instead  of  white,  or  sugar  may 
may  be  omitted  altogether. 

Irish  Bread 

Brown  sugar,  raisins,  currants  and  caraway  seeds  in  fruit  brtad 
recipe. 

Whole  Wheat  and  Graham  Bread 

Use  %  white  flour  and  %  whole  wheat  or  graham  instead  of 
all  white  flour  in  the  recipe  for  white  bread.  These  breads  re- 
quire to  be  kneaded  a  little  stiffer  than  white  flour  bread  to  pre- 
vent their  being  coarse  grained  and  falling  in  the  oven:  also, 
care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  get  too  light  before  bak- 
ing. It  is  a  mistake  to  put  molasses  or  sugar  into  graham  bread 
as  it  conceals  the  sweet  nutty  flavor  of  the  flour. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


433  THE    LAUREL 

Zwiebaok  Bread 
I  pt,  water  i  cake  compressed  yeast 

J^^teaspn,  salt  /^-H  cup  corn  meal 

4  tablespns.  yeast  or  white  flour  to  knead 

It  is  better  not  to  use  oil  in  zwieback  bread. 

New  Yorb  "Home  Uade"  Bread 
2-4  tablespns.  liquid  yeast  or  i  cake  compressed  yeast,  warm 
water  to  make  i  qt.,  white  flour  for  drop  batter;  beat  well. 
When  light,  add  i  cup  corn  meal  gruel  (to  make,  use  I  tablespn. 
of  granular  meal  to  each  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  2  hrs.), 
1%  teaspn.  salt,  and  flour  for  smooth  dough.  Let  rise  in  bulk 
once,  then  put  into  pans.  A  baker  gave  me  this  idea.  Hesaid 
he  had  a  great  run  on  it  once  in  New  York  City  under  the  name 
of  "Home  Made"  bread.     The  bread  is  very  moist  and  sweet. 

Oatmeal  Bread.    Hrs.  Oobb,  Bay  Olty 
H  cup  oatmeal  or  i  cup  3^  cup  sugar 

(pressed  down)  of  rolled  oats      2-4  tablespns.  yeast  or  i  cake 

1  qt.  water  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespns.  oil  i  teaspn.  salt 

white  flour 

Cook  oats  in  water  as  for  porridge,  l  J4-3  hrs.,  cool  to  luke- 
warm, add  sugar,  oil,  yeast,  and  flour  for  sponge;  beat,  let  rise, 
add  salt,  and  flour  forsoft  dough;  when  risen  form  into  loaves 
and  when  moderately  light  bake  from  ^-l  hr.  Sugar  need  not 
be  used. 

if  Rye  Bread 
I  pt.  water  3  cups  rye  meal,  not  flour 

I  tablespn.  oil  4^*5  cups  white  flour  or 

H  teaspn.  salt  enough  to  make  a  very 

3  tablespns.  liquid  yeast  stiff  dough 

Let  rise  once  in  bulk  and  put  into  tins;  when  light,  bake  in 
moderate  oven.     Add  caraway  seeds  when  liked. 

if  Rice  Bread 
Cook  2  cups  of  rice  in  2  qts.   of  water  until  tender;  cool  to 
lukewarm;  add  4-6  tablespns.   yeast  with  water  to  make  i  pt.. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  433 

I  }^  teaspn.  salt  and  4-5  cups  white  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a 
very  stiff  dough. 

1^  Crisp  Bread 
Sponge: — i  cup  water  ^  cake  yeast 

I  tablespn.  oil  i^-iK  cup  bread  flour 

When  light,  add  i  cup  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  knead  well,  use 
crumbs  to  roll  the  dough,  roll  %  in.  thick,  cut  into  large  rings, 
let  rise  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crisp. 

Crumbs  may  be  kneaded  into  bread  dough  and  finished  the 
same. 

Potato  Ball  Bread 

3  cups  mashed  potato  i  teaspn.  salt 

1  cake  dry  yeast  2  teaspns.  sugar 

Add  yeast  cake  powdered  fine,  to  the  potato  when  lukewarm, 
and  the  salt  and  sugar  when  cold;  form  into  a  ball,  cover  and 
keep  in  cool  place  2  or  3  days.  When  ready  to  bake,  add  2  cups 
mashed  potato  mixed  with  i  teaspn.  salt  and  2  of  sugar  to  the 
ball.  Make  a  ball  of  half  the  mixture  and  add  enough  warm 
water  to  the  remainder  to  make  2  qts.  ormore.  Add  warm  flour 
to  knead,  let  rise  in  bulk  once  or  twice  before  putting  into  pans. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  for  each  baking,  keeptngthe  ball 
covered  in  a  cool  place  between  bakings.  A  new  ball  will  not 
need  to  be  started  oftener  than  once  in  three  months  if  at  all. 

This  yeast  works  very  quickly  and  makes  beautiful  bread.  Of 
course  for  small  bakings,  half  the  quantity  of  yeast  would  be 
sufficient. 

"Delicioas**  Bread 

I  do  not  know  the  origin  of  this  yeast  but  the  bread  is  truly 
named. 

Put  into  a  pitcher  or  some  suitable  deep  vessel  2  cups  of  mashed 
potato  to  which  has  been  added  1  cup  of  sugar  and  i  qt.  of 
warm  water.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  room  for  from  i 
to  3  days  or  until  covered  with  a  foam  almost  like  the  meringue 
on  a  pie.  Mix  some  of  this  foam  with  I  cup  of  warm  mashed 
potato,  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  1-2  hrs.,  add  i  tablespn.  of 
salt  and  set  away  tn  a  cool  place. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


434  THE   LAUREL 

To  the  original  yeast  add  1-2  qts.  water,  2-3  teaspns.  salt  and 
warm  flour  to  knead;  when  light,  stir  down,  and  put  into  pans 
the  second  time  it  rises.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  get  over  light 
in  the  pans  before  baking. 

For  the  next  baking,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  i  cup  of  po- 
tato reserved  from  the  last  baking,  to  2  cups  of  fresh  mashed 
potato;  take  out  i  cupful  as  before,  let  stand  in  warm  place  I  hr., 
add  I  tablespD.  of  salt  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

To  the  2  cups  of  potato  add  a  little  water  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  until  light,  when  water  to  make  2  or  3  qts.  may  be  added 
and  the  bread  kneaded  up. 

This  bread  needs  to  be  eaten  to  be  appreciated. 
The  yeast  may  be  used  in  universal  crust,  raised  cakes  and 
wherever  other  yeast  is  used,  with  delightful  results. 
Boston  Brown  Bread.    Com  and  Bye 
I  pt.  warm  water  ^  cup  molasses 

I  tablespn.  oil  ?^3-i  cake  of  yeast 

I  teaspn.  salt  i  pt.  rye  meal 

I  pt.  granular  corn  meal 
Mix  all  ingredients,   let  rise;  pour  into  tins,  let  rise,  not  too 
light;  steam  3  hrs.  bake  20-30  m.  in  slow  oven- 
Raisins  or  nuts  or  both  are  good  in  brown  bread. 

Boflton  Brown  Bread,  Ho.  2. 
I  pt.  water  i  teaspn.  salt 

1  tablespn.  oil  1  yi  cup  pastry  flour 

H  cup  molasses  1  yi  cup  rye  meal 

y^-i  cake  yeast  3-3/^  cups  granular  corn  meal 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  corn  meal,  let  rise,  add  meal,  turn 
into  tins  and  when  risen  not  quite  double,  steam  for  3  hrs.  and 
bake  20  m.  to  %  hr.  in  slow  oven. 

West  Virginia  Soatded  Com  Heal  Bread 
I  cup  Rhode  Island  meal  }i  cake  of  compressed  yeast 

I  cup  boiling  water  i  small  egg 

1/4  cup  warm  water  i-iH  teaspn.  salt 

3-3/4  cups  dry  meal  i  tablespn.  oil 

A  little  more  meal  may  be  used. 


ovGoo<^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  435 

Scald  I  cup  of  meal  with  boiling  water,  add  warm  water,  yeast, 
oil  and  dry  meal.  When  light,  add  salt  and  beaten  e^,  let  rise 
in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked.  The  bread  is  best  baked 
in  an  iron  skillet  or  frying  pan  with  a  cover. 

i(  Com  Cake 

Sponge — I  pt.  skimmed  milk  i  tablespn.  sugar 

I  tablespn.  oil  %  cake  yeast 

^%-i,%  cups  pastry  flour 

When  light;  i  teaspn.  salt,  2  cups  granular  corn  meal,  2  eggs 
slightly  beaten.  Turn  into  well  oiled  pan  to  depth  of  i-ij^  in,, 
let  stand  in  warm  place  a  few  minutes,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

The  quantity  of  flour  will  vary  with  the  brand.  35^-4  cups 
only  of  bread  flour  will  be  required.  The  eggs  make  a  finer 
grained  as  well  as  lighter  bread.  One  egg  will  do  if  eggs  are 
scarce. 

Salt  Bisiag  BTead-Suggeations 

Tastes  and  opinions  diRer  concerning  this  bread  but  no  other 
takes  its  place  to  those  who  were  accustomed  to  it  in  childhood. 

With  a  little  practice,  salt  rising  bread  becomes  less  work  to 
make  than  hop  yeast  bread.  It  is  more  wholesome  and  richer 
flavored  and  keeps  better  than  other  yeast  bread,  and  it  has  a  fine 
cake-like  texture. 

The  experience  of  some  persons  is  that  salt  rising  bread  is  less 
apt  to  cause  acidity  in  the  stomach  than  hop  yeast  bread. 

The  secrets  of  success  with  it  are  in  keeping  it  evenly  warm; 
in  not  making  it  too  stiS;  and  in  not  kneading  it  too  much.  Too 
much  flour  renders  salt  rising  bread  dry  and  powdery. 

The  water  surrounding  the  rising  at  different  stages  should  be 
at  a  temperature  of  1 10  to  125  degrees,  or  so  that  it  feels  hot  to 
the  hand,  but  not  scalding. 

In  cold  weather,  an  ideal  way  to  keep  the  loaves  warm  while 
rising  is  to  put  them  on  bricks  in  a  pan  or  tub  of  warm  water 
and  cover  them  with  a  blanket. 

It  is  well  to  scald  all  utensils  used  for  the  bread  with  boiling 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


43^  THE   LAUREL 

sal-soda  water  and  to  use  the  same  water  to  stand  the  yeast  in 
while  rising. 

While  the  flour  added  to  salt  rising  bread  should  be  warm,  it 
must  never  have  been  hot  at  any  time  before  using  as  it  is  the 
yeast  germs  which  it  and  the  other  ingredients  contain  that 
raise  the  bread. 

The  loaves  should  be  wrapped  in  a  thick  cloth  when  taken 
from  the  oven  and  left  until  cold.  Salt  rising  bread  makes  sweet 
and  tender  zwieback. 

Salt  Bising  Bread.    Ho.  1 

Mix  I  tablespn.  each  of  salt,  sugar  and  corn  meal  (white  or 
Rhode  Island  if  obtainable)  with  3  tablespns.  of  oil,  pour  over 
all  iK  pt.  of  boiling  water;  stir  until  sugar  and  salt  are  dissolved, 
then  add  i  %  pt.  cold  water  that  has  never  been  heated.  Add 
warm  flour  for  thick  batter  which  will  be  rather  thin  after  beat- 
ing (about  2  qts.,  perhaps).  Beat  thoroughly  and  set  in  pan  of 
water  at  1 10  to  125  degrees  or  in  some  place  that  can  be  kept 
at  a  uniform  temperature  much  warmer  than  for  common  yeast 
bread  but  not  warm  enough  to  scald  the  rising.  When  the  first 
bubbles  appear,  beat  the  batter  thoroughly  and  repeat  the  beat- 
ing each  hour  until  light,  which  will  be  in  from  4-6  hours.  The 
rising  should  not  be  allowed  to  become  too  light  at  any  time. 
When  the  batter  is  light,  close  the  doors  so  that  there  will  be 
no  draughts.  Have  the  pans  oiled  and  warm,  and  the  flour 
warm.  Add  the  flour  rapidly  with  very  little  stirring,  to  the 
batter;  when  stiff  enough,  turn  all  out  on  to  a  warmed,  floured 
board  and  work  in  quickly  with  as  httle  kneading  as  possible 
enough  flour  for  a  rather  soft  dough;  form  into  loaves  and  place 
in  oiled  pans,  set  in  a  warm  place,  covering  well  to  keep  a  crust 
from  forming  over  the  top  as  well  as  to  keep  the  loaves  warm. 
As  soon  as  light,  place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  thoroughly. 
Salt  Bising  Bread.    Ho.  3 

To  I  cup  very  warm  water  add  %  teaspn.  of  salt  and  fine  mid- 
dlings (shorts)  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter;  beat  well,  cover  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  437 

set  in  a  dish  of  very,  warm  water,  covered,  beat  2  or  3  times 
while  rising.  When  light,  turn  into  a  warm  mixing  bowl,  add 
1  pt.  or  more  of  warm  water,  a  little  more  salt  and  warm  graham 
flour  (part  white  flour  if  preferred)  for  a  soft  dough,  and  finish 
the  same  as  No.  1. 

it  Universal  Crast 
For  shortcakes,  fruit  tarts,  meat  and  vegetable  pies,  pot  pie 
dumplings,  crackers,  buns,  steamed  puddings,  loaf  cake,  dough- 
nuts and  cookies,  rusk  and  Sally  Lunn. 

1  cup  skimmed  milk  H  teaspn.  sugar 

yi  cup  (large  4  tablespns.)  oil        t-2  tablespns.  liquid  yeast  or 
H  teaspn.  salt  J^  cake  compressed  yeast 

pastry  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  salt  and  add  flour  for  sponge  batter; 
beat;  when  light,  add  salt  and  warm  flour  for  moderately  stiff 
dough.  Knead  a  little  and  cut  into  biscuit  for  the  top  of  fruit 
tarts  or  meat  or  vegetable  pies,  or  place  on  tins  for  shortcake 
crusts.  For  dumplings,  use  only  J^  cup  of  oil  or  i^  tablespn. 
of  raw  nut  butter. 

The  crust  may  be  kneaded  stiff  at  flrst  and  allowed  to  rise  twice. 

If  the  crusts  are  not  fine  grained  it  is  because  you  have  not 
used  enough  flour  or  have  not  kneaded  them  enough;  but  they 
do  not  want  to  be  quite  as  stiff  as  bread  is  usually  mixed. 

Shortcake  crusts  or  tins  of  thin  biscuit  may  be  made  and  kept 
on  hand  and  just  wanned  up  when  needed,  or  laid  over  meat  or 
vegetable  .pie  fillings  or  hot  cooked  fruit  fillings  and  left  in  the 
oven  long  enough  to  warm  through. 

We  consider' this  one  of  the  most  valuable  recipes  in  the  book 
since  it  can  be  used  in  so  many  ways  in  the  place  of  baking  pow- 
der crusts. 

Sour  Cream  Cmat— no  soda 

I  cup  thick  sour  cream  X  teaspn.  salt 

J4-JS  cake  compressed  yeast  white  flour 

Make  sponge  or  knead  at  once  to  soft  dough,  let  rise,  make 
into  any  desired  shape  and  when  light,  bake.     This  is  very  nice 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


438  THE   LAUREL 

for  shortcake  crusts  and  can  be  used  for  nearly  all  purposes  that 
universal  crust  is.  That  the  cream  wassourwould  not  be  known 
after  the  crust  is  baked. 

Sally  lAinn.    Breakfast  or  Supper  Broad 
Use  I  egg,  with  or  without  i  tablespn.    of   sugar  to  each  cup 
of  milk  in  universal  crust.     Bake  in  shallow  or  thick  loaf  as  pre- 
ferred. 

ir  ir  Soup  Crackers 
1  cup  of  skimmed  milk  or  water       K  teaspn.  sugar 
yi  cup  (scant  half  cup  with  i  or  2  tablespns.  liquid  yeast 

water)  of  oil  or  oil  and  or  K-H  cake  compressed 

melted  butter  pastry  flour  for  [yeast 

J4  teaspn.  salt  stiff  dough,  4/^-5  cups 

Knead  thoroughly  (dough  may  be  put  through  food  cutter  5 
or  6  times);  when  light,  fold  down  and  turn  over  and  when  risen 
again,  roll  thin,  prick  all  over  quickly  with  fork  or  docker,  cut 
into  any  size  or  shaf>e  desired  and  bake  at  once  before  the  crack- 
ers have  time  to  rise  and  acquire  a  bread  like  taste.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  well  dried  all  through,  but  not  too  brown. 
When  properly  baked  these  crackers  are  more  suitable  for  soups 
than  unleavened  crackers,  as  they  are  more  porous  and  tender. 
Tiny  ones  cut  with  a  plain  round  pastry  tube  are  attractive  for 
special  occasions.  They  may  be  cut  in  lai^er  sizes,  sometimes 
as  large  as  a  saucer,  like  the  Swedish  milk  biscuit,  for  serving 
salads  or  entries  upon.  For  salads,  they  may  have  a  hole  in 
the  center.  I  have  an  oblong  cutter,  made  by  bending  a  small 
round  tin  tube  into  that  shape,  that  makes  pretty  soup  crackers. 
Bake  the  dough  in  long  slender  rolls  for  Soup  Sticks. 

*  Bolls 

Dough — r  pt.  milk  K-?i  teaspn.  salt 

%-\  cake  compressed  yeast  2  tablespns.  oil 

or  2-4.  tablespns.  liquid  yeast       at>out  3  pts.  flour 

Add  yeast  to  warm  milk  with  flour  for  batter;  let  rise,  add  salt, 

oil,  and  flour  to  knead.     Knead  and  pound  dough  until  elastic. 

Let  rise  in  bulk  or  roll  out  at  ODce.     I  tablespn.  of  sugar  is  some- 


BREADS— LEAVENED  439 

times  added  to  light  sponge;  also  i  egg  or  2  yolks  or  2  beaten 
whites. 

An  excellent  way  is  to  let  the  doi^h  rise  in  bulk  after  knead- 
ing, and  when  light,  turn  from  the  oiled  bowl  on  to  the  board 
and  roll  out  without  mixing. 

For  Parker  House  rolls,  roll  dough  )i  in.  thick,  cut  out  with 
large  biscuit  cutter,  press  across  the  center  or  a  little  one  side  of 
the  center  with  a  small  round  stick  (the  bakers  have  a  piece  of 
broom  handle  rubbed  smooth  with  sandpaper)  or  knife  handle, 
brush  one  side  with  oil  or  butter  and  fold  the  other  side  over, 
place  on  oiled  and  floured  pan  with  spaces  between  so  the  shape 
will  not  be  spoiled  in  baking.  I^et  rise  until  very  light,  when 
nearly  light,  wring  a  cloth  out  of  warm  water,  not  too  dry,  and 
lay  it  over  the  rolls  for  a  short  time.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

For  Crescents,  roll  the  dough  as  nearly  square  as  possible,  less 
than  %  in.  thick,  cut  into  strips  7  in.  wide,  cut  the  strips  into 
squares  and  the  squares  diagonally  into  halves;  brush  lightly 
with  water,  then  commence  to  roll  firmly  from  the  long  side, 
opposite  the  point  of  the  triangle;  leave  the  point  underneath. 
Lay  on  the  pans  in  the  shape  of  a  horseshoe,  when  light,  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  May  brush  with  white  of  egg  or  thin  cooked 
starch  paste  when  nearly  done. 

The  Vienna  roll  is  made  by  shaping  the  same  as  the  Vienna 
loaf  (a  little  smaller  at  each  end),  about  6  in.  in  length.  When 
the  rolls  are  light  in  the  pan,  gash  the  top  of  each  diagonally 
three  times  with  a  sharp  knife.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Roll  dough  into  a  long  strip,  cut  into  3-in.  lengths,  lay  close 
together  in  pan,  brush  with  syrup  made  by  cooking  together  for 
one  minute  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  sugar;  let  rise,  bake,  for 
Finger  rolls. 

Sometimes  roll  dough  thick  and  cut  with  small  round  cutter. 

For  Shamrock  rolls,  put  three  small  round  balls  of  dough  in 
each  gem  or  muffin  cup. 

deft  rolls.     Make  dough  into  balls;  when  light,  cut  each  roll 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


44^  THE    LAUREL 

across  the  top  with  a  sharp  knife,  about  i  in.  deep,  or,  once 
each  side  of  the  center,  or,  once  each  way,  making  a  cross  roll, 
Bnttemiilk  Bolls 
I  pt.  buttermilk  t  tablespn.  sugar 

yi-H  cup  oil  I  teaspn.  salt 

4  tablespns.  yeast  with  warm  white  flour 

water  to  make  H  cup 
Warm  buttermilk,  add  yeast  and  sugar  with  flour  for  sponge; 
when  light,  add  salt,  and  flour  for  soft  dough,  let  rise  and  shape 
into  rolls. 

Swiss  Bolls.    Bennett's 
I J4  cup  skimmed  milk  i  cake  compressed  yeast 

t  tablespn.  sugar  /4  teaspn.  salt 

i}^  tablespn.  butter  i  egg,    white  flour 

Boil  milk,  sugar  and  butter  together,  cool,  add  yeast,  sprinkle 
in  flour  gradually,  agitating  and  beating  liquid  with  batter  whip; 
beat  in  the  egg  and  flour,  beating  with  strong  spoon,  for  a  very 
stiff  batter,  so  stiff  that  it  beats  hard  (may  knead  to  soft  dough). 
Leave  in  warm  kitchen  i  hr.  or  longer,  set  in  icebox  for  several 
hrs.  or  2  days;  roll,  handling  lightly,  ^  in,  thick,  spread  with 
soft  butter,  roll  up,  cut  off  i  K  in-  thick,  let  rise,  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven.  The  dough  may  be  baked  in  loaves  and  used  for 
dainty  sandwiches. 

it  Crumb  Bolls 
Spongt — I  pt.  skimmed  milk  Yi  cake  yeast 

J^  cup  oil  4  cups  bread  flour 

When  light — 2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs  (not  very  fine),  a  little 
salt  if  crumbs  are  not  very  salt,  flour  to  knead  rather  soft. 
Shape,  and  bake  when  light. 

One  chef  made  himself  famous  by  making  rolls  of  crumbs. 

it    Crumb  Bolls  of  Brown  Bread 
Sponge— x  pt.  water  Vi  cake  of  yeast 

Z  tablespns.  oil  3  cups  bread  flour 

When  light — %  teaspn.  salt  2  cups  flour,  or 

I  qt.  fine,  stale,  brown  enough  to  knead 

bread  crumbs 
Let  rise  in  bulk,  shape  as  desired,  bake  when  light. 


.b,Goo<^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  44 1 

Boiled  Bolls 
Roll  dough  for  rolls  (p.  438)in  a  square  li-H  in.  thick,  brush 
with  butter  or  not,  sprinkle  with  maple  sugar  or  chopped  hick- 
ory nuts  or  granulated  sugar  and  ground  coriander  or  anise  seed, 
with  or  without  currants  or  raisins,  or  with  a  mixture  of  chopped 
citron,  English  walnuts  and  sugar  (maple  or  granulated),  or 
chopped  nuts,  figs,  raisinsandcocoanut.  Roll  tight,  cut  from  the 
end  in  I  or  I  }4  in.  lengths,  lay  close  together  in  pan,  let  rise, 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Or,  roll  bread  dough  out  and 
spread  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  vanilla,  lemon,  coriander 
or  anise.  Sprinkle  with  currants  or  raisins.  Roll,  bake,  glaze 
with  sugar  and  hot  water. 

if  Potato  BlBonit 
I  cake  yeast  i  scant  cup  oil  (or  oil  and 

I  qt.  water  melted  butter  mixed) 

1  cup  sugar  4  or  5  eggs 

2  cups  mashed  potato  salt 

white  flour 
Add  beaten  eggs,   warm  water  and  all  other  ingredients  to 
warm  mashed  potato,  with  flour  for  stiff  dough;  when  light,  roll 
out,  cut  into  biscuit,  let  rise,  bake. 

Split  Biscuit 

Use  only  2  tablespns.  of  si^r  in  potato  biscuit  with  milk  for 
wetting. 

Roll  light  dough  }4  in.  thick,  cut  into  biscuit,  butter  half  of 
them  on  top  and  lay  one  of  the  other  half  on  top  of  each;  lay 
close  together  in  pan,  brush  with  butter,  let  rise,  bake. 

it  Baieed  Biscuit 
Take  roll  dough  or  add  a  little  more  oil  to  bread  dough,  cut 
into  small  biscuit  and  place  a  little  way  apart  in  pan,  prick  with 
fork,  let  rise  and  bake.  Or,  cut  strips  of  dough  into  small  pieces, 
roll  into  balls  and  place  close  together  in  tin.  When  there  is  a 
little  piece  of  dough  left,  break  it  into  small,  irregular  pieces 
and  put  one  on  the  top  of  each  biscuit. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


442  THE    LAUREL 

Breakfast  Bisonit-rioe,  oom  and  Ooiir 

Take  cold  boiled  rice,  double  its  quantity  of  flour,  a  little  fine 
corn  meal,  and  yeast.  Mix  with  water  to  dough  and  let  rise 
over  night.  Roll  and  cut  into  biscuit  in  the  morning,  let  rise 
and  bake  for  breakfast. 

*Biuk 
I  pt.  milk  2  eggs 

?i  cup  oil  I  cake  yeast 

H-i  cup  sugar  white  flour 

coriander  or  anise 
Beat  oil  and  sugar  together,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  add  beaten 
eggs  and  warm  milk,  then  dissolved  yeast  and  flour  for  sponge. 
When  light,  add  flour  for  smooth  dough,  let  rise,  mold  into  small 
biscuit,  place  close  tc^ether  in  biscuit  tin  or  put  into  muffin 
rings,  or  roll  I  in.  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  place  on 
pans  a  little  distance  apart;  when  light,  brush  with  equal  quan- 
tities of  sugar  and  cream  (or  milk)  boiled  together  i  minute, 
dust  with  ground  coriander  or  anise,  bake,  andsprinkle  with  gran- 
ulated sugar  or  chopped  almonds  as  they  are  taken  from  the 
oven.  The  brushing  and  dusting  may  be  done  after  baking  if 
preferred. 

Browned  Bosk 
Bake  rusk  dough  in  loaf  cake  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
the  next  day  cut  into  slices  and  dry  and  brown  delicately  the 
same  as  zwieback.  Only  J^  cup  each  of  sugar  and  oil  may  be 
used  or  the  sugar  may  be  omitted  entirely.  Thin  biscuit  of  the 
dough  baked  separately  without  brushing  may  be  toasted  the 
same  as  slices. 

Buns—plain 
I  pt.  milk  2  tablespns.  to  ?'3  cup  of 

yi-i  cake  yeast  sugar 

yi'/4  cup  oil  or  melted  J^-i  teaspn.  salt 

butter  white  flour 

Add  sugar,  oil,  salt  and  yeast  to  warm  milk,  with  flour  for  soft 
dough;  knead,  let  rise,  turn  down  and  when  half  risen  turn  on 
to  board  without  stirring,  roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
place  on  pans  with  spaces  between,  let  rise,  bake.     When  buns 


t,zc-ob,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— LEAVENED  443 

are  done,  the  tops  may  be  wet  with  molasses  and  milk,  stigar 
and  milk,  or  spread  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  dusted  with  ^gar 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  dry. 

Nut  Buns — Add  i  cup  coarse  chopped  nuts  to  dough  after 
first  rising. 

Currant  Buns — I  cup  of  currants  in  place  of  nuts  in  above, 
with  or  without  3  or  4  teaspns.  ground  coriander  seed  or  yi 
teaspn.  ground  anise  seed. 

Raisins  cut  in  quarters  may  be  substituted  for  currants,  with 
any  desired  flavor,  and  nuts  and  raisins  may  be  used  for  Fruit 
and  Nut  Buns,  and  dried  blueberries  for  Blueberry  Buns. 

BeadlM 

Mix  universal  crust  stiff  at  first;  after  rising  twice,  roll  %-%  in. 
thick,  cut  out  with  large  round  cutter,  wash  with  mixture  of 
beaten  yolks,  milk  and  sugar  flavored  with  lemon  (grated  rind  may 
be  used)  and  dust  the  center  with  sugar,  then  draw  over  three 
sides  of  each  toward  the  center  to  form  a  triangle,  but  far  enough 
apart  to  leave  an  opening  in  the  center  to  show  the  washed  part. 
Brush  with  milk.  When  light  bake  in  quick  oven.*  Four  sides 
may  be  drawn  over,  making  a  square  instead  of  a  triangle. 
When  baked,  a  little  jelly  may  be  dropped  in  the  center  for 
jelly  Beadles;  cream  puff  filling  for  Cream  Beadles,  or  thick 
prune  marmalade  for  Prune  Beadles. 

8r.  Pnrdon's  Lemon  Buns 

Sfongt — ij^  cup  milk  i  cake  yeast 

■2%  tablespns.  sugar  2  cups  flour 

IVheu  light — /4  teaspn.  salt  %  cup  seeded  raisins  in 

Yi  cup  oil  or  butter  /^  teaspn.  lemon  [quarters 

3  tablespns.  sugar  extract,  or  grated  rind  of 

flour  for  soft  dough  [lemon 

Let  rise,  shape  as  desired,  when  light  brush  with  milk,  bake. 

Bread  StiokB 
Work  the  white  of  one  e^  into  a  pint  of  light  bread  dough. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


444  THE   LAUREL 

mold  into  slender  sticks,  place  in  stick  pans,  let  rise,  brush  with 
milk  or  white  of  egg  and  water;  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Or,  roll  shortened  dough  to  the  size  of  a  pencil  and  6-8  in. 
long.     Lay  on.tins,  let  rise  a  little,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Serve  with  soups  or  warm  drinks. 

Cmmb  Cakes 
I  cup  milk  or -Water  J^  teaspn,  salt 

t  tablespn.  oil  yi  cake  compressed  yeast 

^  cup  flour  I  egg 

about  ^i  cup  coarse  zwieback  crumbs 
Mix  sugar  and  salt  with  dry  flour,  pour  warm  milk  over  grad- 
ually, stirring;  when  smooth  add  yeast,  and  zwieback  crumbs 
(or  not  too  stiff  batter,  then  the  e^,  white  and  yolk  beaten 
separately;  when  light,  bake  on  griddle. 

Old-time  Buckwheat  Cakes-oom  meal  and  flour 
Stir  J4  cup  of  yellow  corn   meal  into  i  qt.  of  boiling  water; 
cook,  stirring,  until  thickened;  when  lukewarm  add: 

1  teaspn.  salt  )4  cup  white  flour 

2-4  tablespns.  soft  yeast  3  cups  buckwheat  flour 

Beat,  set  in  cool  place  until  morning;  add  a  Httle  warm  water 
if  too  thick  and  use  less  flour  next  time. 

it  Buckwheat  Cakes—bread  cmmbs 

2  cups  buckwheat  flour  i  teaspn.  salt 

2}^  c;ips  warm  water  i  cup  state  bread  crumbs 

J4  cake  compressed  yeast  (white  or  graham) 

I  cup  milk 
Add  yeast  to  warm  water  and  pour  gradually  over  flour  and 
salt,  stirring;  when  light  add  crumbs  soaked  in  milk  and  warmed 
a  little. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


liEATEN    IJISCUI 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


BBEAD8-UNLEATENED-WITH0UT  CHEMICALS 


"The  use  of  soda  and  baking  powder  in  bread  making  is  harm- 
ful and  unnecessary.  Soda  causes  inflammation  of  the  stomach 
and  often  poisons  the  entire  system." 

The  chemical  substances  left  in  foods  by  the  union  of  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  in  baking  powders  cannot  be  used  by  the 
system,  so  the  excretory  organs  are  overworked  in  their  efforts 
to  throw  them  off. 

Experiments  have  also  proven  that  the  chemicals  of  baking 
powder  retard  digestion. 

The  use  of  yeast  is  preferable  to  baking  powder  or  soda,  but 
breads  made  without  baking  powder,  soda  or  yeast  are  best  of  all. 

Unfermented  breads  are  generally  baked  in  small  loaves,  so 
that  they  are  dr>-  and  require  thorough  mastication. 

Because  of  their  dryness,  dough  breads  are  more  desirable 
than  batter  breads. 

With  the  other  advantages,  unleavened  breads  have  all  the 
sweet  taste  of  the  flour. 

The  substitute  for  carbonic  acid  gas  is  as  pure  and  "as  free  as 
the  air  we  breathe."  for  it  is  the  air  we  breathe,  the  very  same 
thing;  consequently  it  is  inexpensive  and  the  use  of  it  requires- 
less  time  and  labor  than  the  making  of  fermented  breads. 

The  Essentials  of  Success  in  making  unleavened  breads  are, 
after  good  materials  (the  flour  must  be  of  the  best);  (a)  that 
the  ingredients  be  as  nearly  ice  cold  as  possible;  (b)  that  the 
breads  stand  or  rest  before  baking,  in  a  cold  place  for  from  20  m. 
to  3  or  4  hrs.,  or  over  night;  (c)  that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot 
when  they  are  first  put  in — not  that  they  must  be  beaten  very 
vigorously. 

[445] 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


44^  THE    LAUREL 

Iron  is  the  best  material  for  batter  bread  pans  as  it  gives  a 
firm,  steady  heat.  The  irons  with  thin,  flat,  oval  {not  square 
cornered)  cups  are  best,  but  the  small  round  cups  are  not  objec- 
tionable and  the  stick  shaped  pans  are  excellent.  Next  to  irons 
are  earthen  custard  cups. 

When  meal  is  to  be  scalded,  heat  it  in  the  oven  before  pour- 
ing liquid  over  it. 

Q«ins 
Batter  breads  baked  in  irons. 

Have  materials  and  utensils  cold,  put  liquid  with  salt,  oil  and 
yolks  of  eggs  when  used,  in  stone  milk  crock  or  deep  pan,  ^itate 
for  a  moment  by  moving  wire  batter  whip  briskly  back  and  forth, 
when  the  liquid  will  be  full  of  bubbles.  Sprinkle  flour  in,  not 
too  slowly,  with  the  left  hand,  keeping  up  the  agitating  motion. 
When  the  batter  is  quite  stiff,  beat  it  (neverstir  it  as  that  drives 
out  the  air)  just  enough  to  incorporate  all  the  flour.  Give  a  few 
turns  of  the  egg  beater  to  the  whites  of  eggs  (which  are  in  a  bowl 
with  a  little  salt),  so  that  they  are  full  of  large  bubbles,  rinse  off 
the  beater  with  cold  water,  give  it  a  shake  and  hang  it  in  its 
place.  Turn  the  e^s  on  to  the  batter  and  mix  them  in  lightly, 
beating  a  little  if  necessary  to  mix  well;  cover  the  dish  and  set 
it  in  the  ice  box  (or  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  with  a  wet  cloth  over 
it)  in  summer,  or  in  a  cold  room  where  it  will  not  freeze  in  win- 
ter, for  not  less  than  20  m.  and  longer  if  possible.  (I  always 
stir  my  gems  up  over  night  when  making  them  for  breakfast.) 

Slightly  warm  the  pans  and  oil  them. 

When  ready  to  bake  the  gems,  warm  the  irons  a  little  and 
without  stirring  the  batter  dip  it  into  the  cups,  filling  them  to 
the  brim,  set  into  a  slow  oven  that  bakes  well  from  the  bottom. 

Bake  until  well  risen,  increase  the  heat  sufficiently  to  brown 
the  gems  nicely,  then  lower  the  temperature  and  finish  baking. 
Be  sure  that  the  gems  are  well  baked  to  the  center.  Turn  out 
of  pans  at  once  and  let  stand  for  10  or  15  m.  before  serving. 
There  is  no  objection  to  serving  unleavened  breads  warm. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  447 

If  the  oven  does  not  bake  well  at  the  bottom,  leave  the  pans 
on  top  of  the  stove  where  it  is  not  too  hot,  for  lo-i  g  m.,  then 
place  carefully  in  the  oven. 

When  baking  with  gas,  put  the  gems  on  the  top  grate  of  the 
oven  before  it  is  lighted;  use  one  burner  only  at  first  and  have 
that  turned  rather  low. 

VThole  Wheat  and  Oraham  Oems 
ij'3-ij4  cup  of  milk,  i  egg  and  flour  for  drop  batter. 

Graham  gems  should  not  be  quite  as  stiff  as  whole  wheat. 
Use  the  quantity  of  milk  that  will  just  fill  the  pan;  skimmed 
milk  with  i  %-2  tablespns,  of  oil  to  the  quart  equals  whole  milk. 
Brazil  or  other  nut  butter  or  meal,  with  water,  is  sometimes  used. 

All  whole  wheat  or  graham  flour  may  be  used,  but  combining 
either  with  %-%  white  flour  makes  gems  more  digestible. 

The  batter  may  be  made  thinner  thanadropbatter,  but  I  have 
better  gems  when  it  is  quite  stiff.  I  take  only  3  eggs  to  a  quart 
of  milk,  but  more  may  be  used.  When  we  are  so  happy  as  to 
get  a  spring  wheat  graham  flour,  2  eggs  to  the  quart  of  liquid  is 
sufficient. 

Gems  may  be  made  without  e^s  with  all  whole  wheat,  or 
graham  flour  of  spring  wheat.  They  require  a  little  more  beat- 
ing, the  longer  rest  is  imperative,  and  the  oven  should  be  a  little 
warmer  at  first. 

Cold  boiled  rice  may  be  added  to  thin  gem  batter  sometimes, 
also  grated  cocoanut. 

White,  and  Sally  Lonn  Qems 

Make  the  same  as  whole  wheat  gems,  using  white  bread  flour, 
and  I  e^  to  each  cup  of  milk,  add  2  tablespns.  of  sugar  for 
Sally  Lunns. 

Fruit  and  Hut  Qems 

Add  a  few  English  currants,  seeded  raisins  in  quarters,  with 
or  without  fine  cut  dates,  or  dried  or  fresh  blueberries  to  any 
gem  batter.  Use  chopped  nuts  alone  or  with  fruit.  Ground 
citron  goes  nicely  with  nuts. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


44«  THE   LAUREL 

Bye  Oems 

I  pi.  skimmed  milk  i  egg 

I  tabtespn.  oil  3  cups  rye  meal  or  3H-4 

H  teaspn.  salt  cups  rye  flour 

with  or  without   a  few  caraway  seeds 

No  oil  is  required  with  whole  milk. 

Plain  rye  or  corn  gems  may  be  served  with  maple  syrup. 

Bye  and  Wheat  Oems 

I  cup  skimmed  milk  salt 

I  tablespn.  oil  H-H  cup  rye  meal 

I  egg  H  cup  white  bread  flour 

it  Crumb  Gtams 

1  qt.  skimmed  milk  3  small  eggs  or  2  large  cues 
3  tablespns.  oil  graham  flour  for  thia  batter 
salt  I  cup  fioe  zwieback  crumbs 

Or,   i}4  cup  crumbs,   ^4  cup  white  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspn. 
si^ar,  with  the  milk,  salt  and  oil. 

it  Com  Heal  and  White  Flour  Gems 
Ji  cup  granular  corn  meal  H  teaspn.  salt 

^  cup  boiling  water  2  teaspns.  oil 

H  cup  cold  water  i  egg 

I H  cup  white  bread  tlour 
Scald  meal  with  boiling  water,  add  oil,  salt,  cold  water  and 
yolk  o[  egg;  beat,  add  white  flour,  beating,  and  lastly  stiffly-beaten 
white  of  egg;  rest.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Com  and  Graham  Qema—ao  eggs 
3  cups  milk  sH  cups  white  corn  meal 

2  teaspns.  oil  t^  cup  graham  flour 

salt 
ir  Cream  Com  Gems  or  Griddle  Cakes 
Stir  enough  corn  meal  into  not  too  thick  cream  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  about  I  }4  cup  meal  to  i  of  cream;  add  salt,  beat  a 
little,  rest,  bake  in  gem  irons  or  on  griddle. 


Pop  OTera 

egg 

1  cup  flour 

cup  milk 

salt 

.b,CjOOi;le 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  449 

Beat  e^  with  salt;  add  half  the  milk,  beat  in  the  flour  and  add 
the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  without  beating  strain  into  a 
pitcher;  rest.  Pour  into  rather  hot  irons  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

Sometimes  the  mixed  egg  and  milk  are  poured  gradually  into 
the  flour,  stirring,  and  sometimes  the  beaten  white  of  egg  only 
is  used,  being  added  after  straining  batter.  And  again,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  oil  or  melted  butter  is  put  in  after  the  flour  is  beaten  into 
half  the  milk. 

German  puffs  call  for  4  eggs  and  Vanity  puffs  for  6  eggs,  with 
the  other  ingredients  the  same. 

Other  Variations  of  Fop  Overs 
(rt)  2  eggs,  I  cup  milk,  i  cup  flour,   2  teaspns.   oil  or  melted 
butter. 

(6)  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour. 
{<■)  2  eggs,  2  cup)s  milk,  i  %  cup  flour. 
(d)  2  eggs,  lyi  cup  milk,  1^4  cup  flour. 

Whole  Wheat  Fop  Overs 
yj  cup  whole  wheat  flour  ^  cup  milk 

/^  cup  white  flour  salt 

I  egg 
Mix  flours  and  salt,  stit  into  milk,  add  beaten  egg,  rest.      Put 
into  rather  hot  oiled  gem  pans,  bake. 

*  Com  Pop  Overs 
^3  cup  corn  meal  salt 

/4  Cup  white  flour  i  egg  white  and  Volk 

H  cup  milk  beaten  separate 

it  Sweet  Potato  Bread 
3  large  (or  iK-iJ^  lb.)  iH  level  tablespn.  butter  or 

sweet  potatoes  iK  cup  granular  com    [oil 

I  teaspn.  salt  H  cup  milk         [meal 

I  egg 
Bake  potatoes,  peel  and  rub  through  colander,   add  salt,  oil, 
meal,  milk  and  beaten  egg;  beat  well.     Bake  in  moderate  oven 
30-40  m.     Serve  hot. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


4SO  THE   LAUREL 

if  Bloe  Breakfast  or  Supper  Oake 
2  cups  boiled  rice  i  cup  milk 

I  tablespn.  oil  salt 

1  tablesps.  melted  butter  3-6  eggs 

I  cup  flour 

Add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  last,  rest,  bake  in  shallow 

pansor  patty  pans.     Serve  hot.     The  flour  is  sometimes  omitted. 

Take  1  cup  each  of  rice  and  hominy  for  Rice  and  Hominy  cake. 

A  Com  Bread 

2  cups  yellow  granular  meal  i  teaspo.  salt 
2K  cups  boiling  water  i!4  tablespn.  oil 

I  egg 
Pour  boiling  water  over  meal,   add  salt,   oil  and  yolk  of  egg; 
cool,  add  beaten  white  and  bake  in  oiled  pan.     Use  a  little  less 
water  for  Rhode  Island  meal. 

Crumbs  and  Com  Bread 

1  pt.  hot  milk  2  eggs 

}4  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  i  K  tablespn.  oil  or 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  melted  butter 

I  teaspn.  salt 

Pour  boiling  milk  over  corn  meal,  stir  well,  add  oil,  salt  and 
crumbs;  cool,  add  beaten  yolks  of  e^s,  then  stiffly-beaten  whites. 
Bake  in  oiled  pie  pans.  Or,  soak  meal  and  crumbs  in  cold  milk 
for  several  hours  and  add  salt,  oil  and  e^s  as  before. 

if  The  Laurel  Brown  Bread.  8r.  OliTe  Jones  Traor 
I  qt.  each  of  corn  meal,  rye  2  teaspns.  salt 

meal  and  cold  water  2  tablespns.  oil 

1%  cup  molasses  6  eggs 

Mix  vrater,  salt,  molasses,  oil  and  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  mixed 
meals;  then  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Steam  3  hrs.,  bakein 
slow  oven  %  hr.  I  qt.  of  thin  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  oil 
and  water. 

Halved,  seeded  raisins  may  be  added  occasionally  or  fine  cut 
steamed  prunes  or  broken  pieces  of  nuts. 


ovGoo<^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  4S  1 

Cnunb  Brown  Bread—no  eggs  or  yeast 
I  cup  granular  corn  meal  i  teaspn.  salt 

or  1/4  of  Rhode  Island  meal  2  cups  water 

J^  cup  rye  meal  2/4  cups  (not  too  fine) 

Ji  cup  molasses  dry  bread  crumbs 

Mix  and  steam  3  hrs. 

2  cups  of  granella  in  place  of  the  crumbs  is  better  still. 
%  cup  sugar  with  yi  cup  more  of  water  may  be  used  in  place 
of  the  molasses.     Cereal  cofFee  may  be  used  for  the  liquid,  or  a 
little  browned  flour  may  be  mixed  with  the  meal. 
if  Jobnny  Cake 
i)i  cups  granular  corn  meal  salt 

3  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butler  about  i}4  cup  milk 

Mix;  rest  i  hr.  or  longer  in  cold  place,  bake  in  iron  skillet  in 
quick  oven. 

Southern  Johnny  Cakes 
%  cup  each  fine  hominy,  rice  and  rice  flour,  salt,  water,  milk. 
Cook  rice  and  hominy  in  2  cups  of  water,  each.  Add  }4-l  cup 
milk,  salt  and  rice  flour;  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  hot,  oiled  griddle, 
flatten  with  fingers  dippe'd  in  cold  water,  bake  in  oven  or  on  top 
of  stove. 

ir  Bannock 
^3  cup  granular  meal  H  teaspn.  salt 

3>^  cups  boiling  water  i  tablespn.  oil  or  butter 

2  eggs 
Cook  meal  in  water  for  lO  m..  add  oil,  cool  a  little,  add  yolks 
of  eggs,  beat  well,  fold  in  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  bake  in 
oiled  pudding  dish  or  pie  plates,   in  moderate  oven.     Serve  at 

Water  Com  Bread 

1%  cup  granular  corn  meal,  salt,  i  cup  cold  water.  Rest 
1-2  hrs.,  spread  thin  on  hot  griddle  or  frying  pan,  bake  in  hot 
oven,  serve  hot. 

Ho.  2 

1  cup  granular  meal,  salt,  ^  cup  boiling  water.  Spread  at 
once,  thin,  on  hot  griddle  or  frying  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 
Serve  hot. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


45^  THE    LAUREL 

Oat  Cake 

I  cup  fine  oatmeal,  J4  teaspn.  salt,  boiling  water,  i-ij^  cup 
perhaps.  Grind  rolled  oats  (not  too  fine)  if  very  fine  meal  is  not 
obtainable.  Pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten,  spread 
very  thin  on  hot  oiled  frying  pan  or  griddle  (or  spread  spoonfuls 
in  cakes),  bake  on  top  of  stove  or  in  hot  oven. 

Com  Heal  CruBts 
I  cup  yellow  meal  i^tablespn.oil  or  melted  butter 

%  teaspn.  salt  t  teaspn.  sugar 

\%  cup  boiling  water 
Pour  boiling  water  over  meal,  sugar  and  salt;  beat  well;  add 
butter,  spread  very  thin  on  well  oiled  pans,  bake.      Pull  apart 
while  hot. 

White  Corn  Heal  Crusts 
I  cup  white  corn  meal,  2  cups  boiling  milk,  i  teaspn.  salt;  stir 
smooth  and  pour  ^-j4  in.  deep  in  oiled  pan.     Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven.     Split  for  eating. 

Rhode  Island  Johnny  (Journey)  Cakes 
Those  who  have  not  made  the  acquaintance  of  Rhode  Island 
Johnny  cakes  have  missed  much.  To  make  them  in  their  per- 
fection Rhode  Island  meal  is  required,  though  white  meal  will 
do.  Do  not  try  them  with  yellow  granular  meal.  Rhode  Is- 
land meal  has  a  creamy  tint  and  is  lighter  in  texture  than  gran- 
ular meal. 

Mix  the  meal  with  salt  in  a  cake  bowl  and  pour  perfectly  boil- 
ing water  over  it  to  more  than  moisten.  (A  rule  for  the  quan- 
tity is  out  of  the  question).  Stir,  and  if  necessary  add  more 
water.  The  batter  should  be  soft,  but  the  meal  must  be  well 
wet  with  the  boihng  water.  Beat  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  to 
a  hot,  well  oiled  griddle.  Dip  the  hand  in  water  and  fiatten  the 
cakes  to  about  %  in.  thick.  Keep  the  griddle  hot  until  cakes 
are  nicely  browned  on  one  side,  turn,  adding  more  oil  if  neces- 
sary and  brown  on  the  other  side;  after  which  set  back  where 
cakes  will  bake  slowly  for  20  m.   to  J^  hr.     Serve  with  cream, 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  453 

nut  cream  or  butter,  or  with  some  meaty  flavored  gravy;  some- 
times honey  or  maple  syrup. 

In  many  families  these  cakes  form  the  bread  for  three  times 
a  day  six  days  in  the  week,  and  one  soon  comes  to  feel  lost 
without  them. 

As  Toast — Split  cold  cakes,  lay  in  deep  dish  with  salt  and 
bits  of  butter  and  pour  hot  milk  over. 

Pone,  or  Com  Bread  "Straight" 

I  qt.  whitecorn  meal,  i  teaspn.  salt,  cold  waterforsoft  dough. 
With  hands  moistened  with  cold  water  mold  into  oblong  mounds, 
a  little  thicker  in  the  center  than  at  the  ends.  Lay  on  hot 
oiled  or  floured  pan,  press  a  little  with  the  hngers  and  bake  in 
hot  oven.      Break  (not  cut).     Eat  hot. 

A  little  oil  may  be  added  to  the  meal  for  pone,  but  then  it 
will  not  be  "straight." 

ABh  Cake 

Brush  a  place  clean  before  the  Are  and  lay  the  pones  upon  it. 
Let  the  tops  dry  a  little  and  cover  with  hot  ashes.  Bake  until 
dry  and  firm,  1 5-30  m.  Draw  from  the  fire,  brush  off  the  ashes, 
wash  and  wipe,  serve.  Buttermilk  is  the  ideal  accompaniment 
to  ash  cake  or  pone. 

A  cabbage  leaf  may  be  laid  above  and  below  the  cake  in  the 
ashes;  then  it  will  not  require  washing,  but  will  need  to  be  baked 
a  little  longer. 

Hoe  Cake 

One  hoe  cake  is  the  pone  mixture  baked  on  a  hoe  or  griddle 
in  one  large  cake  or  in  several  small  ones  J^-^  in.  thick. 

Another — 1  cup  white  Southern  corn  meal  or  Rhode  Island 
meal,  mix  with  %  teaspn.  salt  and  pour  boiling  milk  or  water 
over  to  make  a  batter  thick  enough  not  to  spread.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  well  oiled  griddle  and  press  %  in.  thick.  When 
nicely  browned  on  one  side,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  or  a 
little  oil  on  top  of  each  cake  and  turn.  Bake  thoroughly. 
Serve  hot.     A  teaspn.  of  sugar  is  sometimes  added  to  the  meal. 


454  THE   LAUREL 

; 

but  "no  Southern  cook  would  risk  the  spoiling  of  her  corn  breads 
by  sweetening  them." 

For  campers,  the  batter  may  be  spread  on  afloured  oak  board, 
the  board  slanted  in  front  of  the  fire  and  the  hoe  cake  baked  "in 
its  original  way  and  with  its  original  flavor;"  or  it  may  be  baked 
on  a  smooth  flat  stone  which  has  been  heated  and  floured. 
Sometimes  the  scalded  meal  is  allowed  to  stand  for  an  hour  or 
longer,  then  formed  into  cakes  %-'i4  '"■  thick  before  baking. 

it  Sr.  Welch's  Com  Dodgers 

fi  cup  common  yellow  corn  meal  r  J^  cup  milk  or  water 

good  /^  cup  white  flour  or  half  of  each 

1-2  teaspns.  sugar  i  large  egg 

salt  I  teaspn.  oil  or  melted 

butter 
Mix  corn  meal  and  flour  and  heat  in  oven,  add  sugar  and  salt 
and  pour  boiling  liquid  over,  stir  rapidly  until  smooth,  add  oil 
and  yolk  of  egg,  then  stiffly-beaten  white;  drop  in  spoonfuls  on 
hot  oiled  pan;  bake  in  quite  hot  oven. 

Br.  Welch's  Com  Dodgers—granular  meal 
I  cup  yellow  granular  corn  meal        salt 

large  J^  cup  white  flour  zH-3  cups  boiling  milk  or 

/4  tablespn.  sugar  water,  or  half  of  each 

I  large  or  2  small  eggs 
Mix  and  bake  as  with  common  meal.      If  the  liquid  is  not  rich 
milk,  use  i  tablespn.  oil  or  melted  butter. 

Use  Ji-i  cup  of  nut  meal  or  butter  and  all  water  for  Nut  Corn 
Dodgers. 

Com  Ueal  Porridge  Dodgers 
1  cup  corn  meal  i  cup  boiling  water 

/4  teaspn.  salt  I  tablespn.  oilormelted butter 

Pour  boiling  water  over  corn  meal  and  salt  in  inner  cup  of 
double  boiler;  stir  smooth,  cook  I  hr.,  add  oil,  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  oiled  griddle,  dip  fingers  in  cold  water  and  pat  down  flat; 
when  browned  put  a  dot  of  butter  or  a  little  oil  on  top  of  each 
and  turn.     Serve  with  poached  eggs  if  desired. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  4^5 

ariddle  Cakes 
Batter  for  griddle  cakes  should  stand  2  hrs.  or  longer  in  the 
ice  box,  or  in  winter  in  some  cold  place,  to  lighten  it  by  allow- 
ing the  starch  grains  and  glutenous  portion  of  the  flour  to  swell. 
An  iron  or  steel  griddle  is  best  for  baking  cakes.  Soapstone, 
so  highly  recommended,  is  objectionable  because  little  particles 
of  the  stone  adhere  to  the  cakes. 

The  griddle  should  stand  on  a  not  too  hot  part  of  the  stove 
and  heat  slowly  for  a  long  time  before  the  cakes  are  to  be  baked. 
Professional  pancake  bakers  have  their  griddle  over  a  slow  fire 
all  night. 

When  oil  is  used  in  the  batter,  less  or  none  is  required  on  the 
griddle. 

Have  the  griddle  hot  before  putting  the  cakes  on,  brown  them 
delicately,  then  turn  once  only.     A  second  turning  makes  them 
heavy.     Cakes  ought  to  be  eaten  as  soon  as  baked,   but  should 
not  be  covered  when  required  to  stand  for  a  short  time. 
Plain  Griddle  Cakes 
I  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  tablespns.  oil  iH-iH  cup  bread  flour 

}i-yi  teaspn.  salt 
Rest  2  hrs.  or  longer.     May  spread  with  jelly,  or  with  butter 
and  sugar  and  roll. 

Bice  Griddle  Cakes 
Add  1-2  cups  cold  boiled  rice  to  plain  cakes. 

Cntmb  Griddle  Cakes 
Use  only  1  cup  of  l^our  in  plain  cakes  and  add  stale  or  dry 
bread  crumbs  to  make  quite  a  thick  batter. 
Buokwlieat  Cakes 
Use  %  buckwheat  in  place  of  all  white  flour  in  plain  cakes. 

SaTory  Heat  Griddle  Cakes 
Add  crumbled  trumese,  fine  chopped  onion  and  powdered  sage 
to  rice  or  crumb  cakes. 

Uashroom  Griddle  Cakes 
Lay  a  spoonful  or  two  of  chopped  mushroom  stems,  simmered 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


45^  THE   LAUREL 

in  oil  with  or  without  a  little  tomato,  browned  flour  and  onion, 
on  each  small  thin  cake,  roll  lightly  and  serve  with  or  without 
Italian  or  Boundary  Castle  sauce. 

'   Plain  Griddle  Cakea—Boox.    Delicate  and  Creamy 
I   full  tablespn.  oil  /4  cup  water 

3  tablespns.  bread  flour  ^  cup  flour 

^  cup  milk  ^  teaspn.  salt 

2  eggs 
Heat  oil,  add  the  2  tablespns.  flour,  hot  water  and  milk,  boil 
well;  when  cool,  add  salt,   yolks  of  eggs  and   %   cup  of  flour, 
beating;  then  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs;  rest. 
Variations 
{a)  2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs  in  place  of  the  half  cup  of  flour 
and  less  or  no  salt.  ' 

{b)  Add  2-4  cups  of  cold  boiled  hominy  to  plain  batter  and 
iliother  %  cup  of  flour  if  necessary. 

{c)  Add  \%-2  cups  cold  boiled  rice  to  plain  cakes  and  a  little 
more  flour  if  necessary. 

{d)  Add  i-r  5^  cup  drained  canned  corn  to  plain  cakes,  more 
flour  if  necessary. 

(c)  Add  4  tablespns.  granular  corn  meal  scalded  with  about 
%  cup  of  boiling  water,  to  plain  cakes. 

Crumb  Oriddle  Cakes—Qo  flour 
I  cup  milk  'A  teaspn.  salt 

I  cup  dry  crumbs  i  egg 

Com  and  Crumb  Oriddle  Cakes-no  eggs 
J4  cup  granular  meal  J4  teaspn.  salt 

/4  cup  boiling  water  ^  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

I  teaspn.  oil  %  cup  whole  milk 

Cool.     If  necessary,  add  %  cup  more  of  milk. 
Bioe  G-rlddle  Cakes—no  flour 
/^  cup  rice  i  cup  milk 

3  eggs  %  teaspn.  salt 

I  tablespn.  oil      .      ' 
Boil  rice  in  2  cups  water,  partly  cool,  beat  smooth  with  milk, 
add  salt  and  beaten  eggs.     Another  yolk  of  egg  may  be  used. 
If  rice  is  thin,  use  less  milk. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  457 

Hominy  Orlddle  Cakes 

%  cup  hominy     3  eggs     5^  cup  milk     iH  tablespn.  oil     salt 

Cook  hominy  in  2  cups  water  and  proceed  as  in  Rice  Cakes, 

Com  Heal  Griddle  Cakes— no  flour 

I  pt.  granular  meal  i  pt.  boiling  water 

1  teaspn.  each  butter,  salt  and  sugar      %-%  cup  cold  milk 

a  eggs 

Scald  meal  with  boiling  water,  add  butter,  salt,  sugar  and  cold 
milk,  then  yolks  of  eggs;  beat  batter  and  fold  in  stiffly-beaten 
whites.     Or,  beat  eggs  all  together. 

For  Rhode  Island  meal,  i  %  pt.  boilingwater  will  be  required. 
Green  Com  Batter  Cakes 

2  tablespRS.  oil  or  melted  i  teaspn.  sugar  if  corn  is 
butter  not  sweet 

3  tablespns.  flour  3  tablespns.  fine  dry  or 
H  cup  boiling  water  toasted  bread  crumbs 
^■M  cup  of  grated  or  ground              i  egg 

green  corn  salt 

Heat  oil,  add  flour,  then  boiling  water;  remove  from  fire,  add 
salt  and  crumbs,  cool,  add  corn  and  beaten  egg.  Bake  on  well 
oiled  griddle. 

Hnt  Butter  Griddle  Cakes 
2  tablespns.  almond,  Brazil  or  other  nut  butter,  i  cup  water, 
salt,  2  eggs,  whites  beaten  separate,  i  cup  bread  flour. 
Hut  and  Egg  Cakes 
For  those  who  cannot  take  starchy  foods. 
Rub  2  tablespns,   nut  butter  smooth  with  2  full  tablespns.  of 
water;  add  a  beaten  egg  with  salt.     Bake  on  moderate  griddle 
to  delicate  brown. 

Doagk  Breads 
Grind  dough  breads  5-8  times  through  a  food  cutter  with  the 
finest  plate  instead  of  kneading;  it  saves  time  and  strength  and 
the  breads  are  better. 

A  good  spring  wheat  graham  flour  makes  better  rolls  than 
whole  wheat  flour,  but  poor  graham  flour  does  not  make  good 
"anything."     The  simplest  rolls  are  made  with  flour  and  water. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


458  THE    LAUREL 

with  or  without  salt,  and  require  more  thorough  working  than 
those  made  with  shortening.  Rolls  may  be  reheated  whole,  or 
be  split  and  toasted. 

Sticks  and  rolls  may  be  mixed  with  milk  instead  of  water. 

All  crackers  and  wafers  (except  fruit)  should  be  crisped  thor- 
oughly in  the  oven  before  serving. 

Plain  Graham  Bolls 

Put  a  cupful  of  ice  water  into  a  cold  bowl.  Add  %  teaspn. 
of  salt  if  desired,  but  the  rolls  will  have  more  of  the  sweet, 
nutty  flavor  of  the  flour  without  it.  imitate  the  water  until  full 
of  bubbles  and  sprinkle  in  the  cold  flour  as  for  gems.  When  the 
batter  is  too  stiff  to  beat,  take  it  out  on  to  "a  cold  floured  board 
and  knead,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible,  until  smooth  and 
elastic.  About  3  cupfuls  of  flour  will  be  takeif-  up.  Divide  the 
dough,  roll  it  quickly  and  evenly  to  about  Ji  in.  in  diameter, 
cut  into  3  in.  lengths  and  set  in  ice  box  to  rest.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  with  steady  heat  until  the  rolls  will  not  yield  to 
pressure  between  the  thumb  and  finger  and  are  of  a  delicate 
brown. 

If  preferred,  the  water  may  be  poured  over  the  flour  and  the 
dough  kneaded  the  same.  The  dough  may  rest  before  being 
rolled  out. 

The  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled  e^  rubbed  into  each  fwnt  of  flour 
makes  more  tender  rolls;  or  one  beaten  raw  yolk  may  be  added 
to  each  %  cup  of  water. 

Hm  Bolls 

Add  ^-i  cup  of  nut  meal  to  water  in  plain  rolls  reci[>e. 

Cream  Bolls 

Mix  rich  cold  cream  and  graham  flour  together  quickly.  Press 
together  without  kneading,  rest  for  2  hrs.  or  more,  shape  into 
rolls  and  bake,  or  put  on  ice  again  until  ready  to  bake. 

Rolls  may  be  kneaded,  and  if  kneaded  at  all  should  be  kneaded 
thoroughly.     Cocoanut  cream  may  be  substituted  for  dairy. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  459 

it  Shoitoned  Bolls 
The  quantity  o^oil  required  will  depend  entirely  upon  the 
quality  of  the  flour,  but  for  ordinary  graham  flour  take  yi  cup 
of  oil  to  each  pint  of  flour;  to  a  good  spring  wheat  flour  not 
more  than  %  cup.  Rub  the  oil  into  the  salted  flour,  add  ice 
water  for  moderately  stiff  dough,  press  into  a  mass  and  set  to 
rest,  unless  preferringto  knead.  Finish  the  same  as  cream  rolls. 
J^  white  flour  may  be  used  with  the  graham. 

Trait  Bolls 

Roll  shortened  dough  H  in.  thick.  Cut  into  strips  2  J^-3  in, 
wide,  put  a  strip  of  halves  of  stoned  dates,  pieces  of  nice  fresh 
flgs  or  a  roll  of  seeded  and  ground  raisins  along  the  length  of  the 
dough  a  httle  one  side  of  the  center;  slightly  moisten  the  edge 
of  the  dough  farthest  away  from  the  fruit,  lap  the  edge  nearest, 
over  the  fruit  and  roll  it  up  in  the  dough,  leaving  a  long  roll 
with  the  fruit  in  the  center;  roll  over  and  over  until  the  edge  of 
the  dough  is  well  fastened  down;  cut  roll  into  3  or  3  inch  lengths 
(l  inch  for  some  occasions);  bake. 

This  way  of  putting  the  fruit  in  the  roll  has  the  advantage  of 
leaving  no  piecesof  fruit  sticking  through  the  dough  to  be  burned 
in  baking,  and  also  of  not  having  any  "sad"  portion  of  dough  in 
the  center  of  the  roll. 

Proit  and  Nut  BoUb — ^may  be  made  by  adding  pieces  of  nuts  to 
the  fruit  in  the  roll. 

Sticks 

Roll  any  of  the  roll  doughs  or  the  graham  cracker  dough  to 
about  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil  or  not  over  J^  of  an  inch  in  di- 
ameter; cut  in  5-7  in.  lengths,  rest  and  bake  the  same  as  rolls. 
Sticks  are  more  crisp  and  delightful  than  rolls.  They  should  be 
on  the  table  for  every  meal. 

White  Sticks 
Take   i-i}i  tablespn.  of  oil  to  each  cup  of  white  bread  flour, 
with  a  trifle  of  salt,  and  water  for  stiff  dough. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


460  THE   LAUREL 

Dainty  white  sticks  are  nice  to  serve  with  soups,  salads  and 
some  desserts. 

Porridge  Sticks. 

I  cup  cold,  thick  oatmeal  porridge        salt 
I  tablespn.  oil  %  cup  graham  flour 

iK  cup  white  flour 

Mix  and  knead  thoroughly.      Dough  must  be  very  stiff. 
Beaten  BisotUt-Wliole  Wheat 

I  qt.  true  whole  wheat  flour         }i  cup  oil 

%  teaspn.  salt  i  scant  cup  ice  water,  about 

Rub  salt  and  oil  with  flour,  add  water,  knead  until  smooth 
(the  dough  should  be  very  stiff),  then  separate  dough  into  sev- 
eral pieces  and  put  it  through  the  food  cutter  6  or  8  times. 
This  takes  the  place  of  the  laborious  beating.  Shape  into 
small  thick  biscuit;  make  a  hole  through  the  center  of  each  one 
from  the  top  with  the  thumb  or  finger,  rest;  bake  thoroughly  in 
moderate  oven. 

If  you  have  time  to  form  the  biscuit  you  will  be  well  repaid 
for  your  trouble  as  they  are  so  beautiful;  but  if  your  time  is  lim- 
ited, roll  the  dough  %-\  in.  thick,  cut  with  small  round  cutter 
and  prick  with  fork.  You  may  even  cut  the  dough  into  small 
squares.  Rolled  very  thin,  cut  with  a  lai^ge  cutter  and  pricked 
well,  the  dough  makes  nice  wafers.  If  a  food  cutter  is  not  at 
hand,  beat  with  a  mallet  or  the  rolling  pin,  or  pick  apart  with 
the  thumb  and  fingers,  over  and  over  again,  until  the  dough 
snaps  when  pulled  apart. 

A  cup  of  medium  thick  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  oil  and 
water. 

Uaryland  Beaten  Bisooit 

I  qt.  white  flour  (use  only  /^  teaspn.  salt  with 

I  teaspn.  salt  butter) 

a-4.  tablespns.  oil  or  K-?^  cup  of  ice  cold  milk  or 

1-2  tablespns.  butter,  water,  or  half  of  each 

Proceed  as  with  whole  wheat  biscuit. 


o;Goo<^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  46I- 

MaryloQd  Bisonit— Unbeatea 
1  qt.  whole  wheat  or  4  tablespns.  oil  or  melted  butter 

white  flour  cold  wateror  milk  for  stiffest 

salt  possible  dough 

Knead  20  m.,  or  until  dough  blisters;  set  aside  1-2  hrs.,  or 
over  night;  knead  t;-iom.,rollandcut,  orshapeby  hand.     Bake. 

ir  White  Graokers 
I  qt.  bread  flour  salt 

4.  tablespns.  oil,  or  2  of  oil  and  i  of      cold  milk  for  very  stiff 
butter  (2  of  melted  butter)  dough 

Knead  until  smooth,  run  through  food  cutter  6-8  times,  or 
beat  or  pick  as  beaten  biscuit;  rest,  roll  thin,  prick  dough  all 
over,  cut  into  any  desired  shape,  bake  in  moderateoven.  K  or 
J4  of  pastry  flour  may  be  used;  also  water  and  a  little  more 
shortening. 

SwedlBh  Milk  Bisooit 

Make  white  crackers  of  milk,  roll  as  thin  as  paper,  prick,  cut 
into  biscuit  the  size  of  a  saucer.  Turn  the  wafers  on  the  tins 
often  while  baking.  Serve  with  some  desserts,  fruit  or  other 
salads,  and  with  cottage  cheese.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  center  of 
some  of  the  biscuit  before  baking  and  serve  salads  or  suitable 
meat  dishes  on  them  in  individual  servings. 

Goooannt  Wafers 

2/4  cups  pastry  flour  2  tablespns.  butter  or  3  of 

I  cupdessicatedcocoanut  salt  [oil 

water 

Rub  butter  into  t!our,  add  salt  and  mix  with  cocoanut  which 
has  been  ground  through  a  food  cutter.  Add  ice  water  for  stiff 
dough,  roll  out  at  once  or  rest  before  roHing  as  preferred.  Bake 
carefully  so  as  not  to  scorch  the  cocoanut.  Dried  grated  co- 
coanut of  your  own  preparing  is  preferable.  2  cups  of  cocoanut 
may  be  used. 

If  a  sweet  wafer  is  desired,  add  sugar  to  the  dough  or  sprinkle 
with  sugar  before  baking. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


4^2  THE    LALTREL 

Fruit  Bars 

Roll  any  desired  dough  thin,  cut  into  3-3  !4  in.  strips,  spread 
one  half  of  the  width  with  stoned  dates,  halved  raisins, 
steamed  figs,  sweet  prunes  or  any  suitable  fruit,  which  has  been 
cut  into  strips  with  the  shears;  moisten  the  edge  next  to  the 
fruit,  fold  the  other  half  of  the  dough  over,  pressing  the  edges 
well  together,  and  roll  lightly  to  flatten  the  bar;  cut  with  a  sharp 
knife  into  2!^-3  in.  lengths. 

Add  nuts  to  make  fruit  and  nut  bars,  or  make  nut  bars  some- 
times.    The  dough  may  be  slightly  sweetened. 

Crackers  with  Nuts 

Brush  baked  crackers  with  beaten  white  of  egg  and  spread 
thick  with  chopped  or  coarse  ground  nuts  (English  walnuts  or 
pecans  or  both).      Put  into  warm  oven  to  dry. 

These  crackers  are  nice  to  serve  with  fruit  or  vegetable  salads, 
or  with  cereal  coffee  or  tea-hygiene. 

Graham  Craokers— Bweet 
2  cups  each  graham  and  X  cup  su){ar 

white  flour  /4  teaspn.  salt 

'A  cup  butter  or  oil  cold  water  for  stiff  dou);h 

Mix  well  together,  run  through  food  cutter  (with  finest  knife) 
5  or  6  times,  roll  about  >i  in.  thick,  prick  with  fork,  cut  into 
any  desired  shape,  set  in  cold  place  for  2  hrs.  or  longer,  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

Omit  sugar  for  unsweetened  crackers.  Dough  may  be  kneaded, 
picking  it  apart  into  small  pieces,  if  food  cutter  is  not  at  hand. 
Or,  crackers  are  very  good  made  up  without  any  kneading,  when 
rested  in  cold  place. 

ir  Sour  Cream  Craokera 
^  cup  thick  sour  cream  H  teaspn.  salt  [dough 

2  tablespns.  oil  pastry  flour  for  rather  stiff 

Rest  and  finish  as  other  crackers.  If  the  cream  is  not  rich . 
use  more  oil. 


t,zcob,CoOt^lc 


BREADS— UNLEAVENED  463 

Nut  Wafers 
/4-I  cnpfinechopped  or  ground  nuts  H  teaspn.  salt 

I  pt.  flour,  graham  or  white,  or  water  for  stiff  dough 

half  of  each 

Finish  the  same  as  graham  crackers.      Nice  with  fruit  soups. 

Fruit  Wafers 

Roll  any  of  the  cracker  doughs  thin,  place  figs,  dates,   raisins 

or  prunes  cut  in  thin  piece-;  with  the  shears,  on  the  dough,  cover 

with  another  thin  layer  of  dough,  roll  with  rolling  pin  to  press 

ail  together,  prick  with  fork,  cut  in  squares,  rest,  bake. 

ir  Oat  Cakes 

I  part  oil,  2  parts  water,  salt,  coarse  oat  flour  to  knead. 
Roll  %  in.  thick  of  size  to  fit  pie  pan,  crease  in  quarters,  rest; 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  The  dough  may  be  cut  into  crackers  if 
preferred.  Grind  rolled  oats  or  oatmeal  in  food  cutter,  to  make 
the  flour. 

ir  Orabam  Crisps  or  Flakes 

Prepare  dough  as  for  plain  graham  rolls,  kneading  very  stiff. 
After  resting,  separate  into  small  pieces  and  roll  each  piece  as 
thin  as  paper.  When  all  are  rolled,  put  as  many  as  convenient 
into  a  hot  oven  on  perforated  pans  or  on  the  grate  of  the  oven. 
Turn  them  over  on  the  pans  often  while  baking  and  bake  to  a 
delicate  brown.     Serve  whole  or  in  broken  pieces. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  digestible  of  unleavened 
breads  and  has  a  crispness  and  nutty  flavor  peculiarly  its  own. 
It  should  be  one  of  the  staple  articles  of  food  in  our  homes  and 
is  especially  adapted  to  school,  picnic  and  travelling  lunches. 

Cream  Crisps 
Mix  with  thin  cream  instead  of  water  and  bake  in  slower  oven 
than  water  crisps.      With    cream,    whole  wheat  or  white  flour 
may  be  used,  as  well  as  graham. 

Nut  Crisps 
Use  nut  roll  dough,   kneading  it  verj-  stiff      Beaten  biscuit 
dough  may  also  be  used  for  shortened  crisps. 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


404  THE    LAUREL 

Coooannt  Orlsps 

Use  equal  quantities  of  desiccated  cocoanut  and  pastry  flour, 
with  water  or  milk  for  liquid. 

Nat  SbrawB 
Take  equal  quantities  of  any  nut  meal  and  pastry  flour,  with 
a  little  salt.  Add  just  enough  ice  water  to  make  the  particles 
hold  together,  roll  out  without  kneading  to  %  in.  thick,  then 
cut  into  strips  %  in.  wide  and  5-8  in.  long.  Bake  in  quick  oven 
to  delicate  cream  color.  Serve  tied  with  narrow  ribbon  in 
bunches  of  3-5  with  individual  plates  of  salad  or  on  celery 
dish.      3i  nut  meal  and  %  flour  may  be  used  for  richer  straws. 

Unleavened  Bread  for  Communion 
2  cups  pastry  flour  %  teaspn.  salt 

3j4-3  tablespns.  olive  oil  >'3  to  scant  J4  cup  of  ice  water 

Mix  salt,  flour,  and  oil  together,  add  enough  ice  water  for  stiff 
dough,  press  together  as  for  pie  crust  and  set  in  refrigerator  an 
hour  or  longer.  Roll  dough  three-sixteenths  of  an  inch  thick, 
prick  all  over  with  a  fork,  mark  off  in  nine-sixteenth-inch  squares 
by  a  rule,  cut  into  convenient  sized  pieces  for  baking.  Lay  on 
a  pan  or  perforated  sheet,  then  crease  marked  squares  half 
through  the  dough  with  a  spatula  or  the  back  of  a  knife.  Bake 
very  carefully  in  a  moderate  oven. 

I  %-2  tablespns.  of  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  the  oil,  but 
olive  oil  seems  more  suitable  for  the  purpose. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


SAITDWICHES 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  of  fine  even  grain  and  twenty- 
four  hours  old,  except  for  rolled  sandwiches,  then  it  must  be 
moist  enough  to  be  pliable. 

Sometimes  it  is  well  to  wrap  the  loaves  to  be  used  for  sand- 
wiches in  damp  cloths  for  three  or  four  hours  before  preparing. 

Dip  the  knife  into  hot  water  for  slicing  moist  bread. 

Thin,  fresh  crisped  crackers  or  wafers  are  nice  for  sandwiches 
when  they  are  to  be  served  right  away,  so  they  will  not  lose 
their  crispness.  Wafers  of  pastry  are  suitable  for  some  sand- 
wiches. 

Small  round  tins,  like  baking  powder  cans,  are  nice  to  bake 
bread  in  for  sandwiches.     Be  careful  not  to  bake  it  too  hard. 

Do  not  cut  the  crust  from  the  bread  as  a  rule;  it  is  the  sweet- 
est and  most  wholesome  part  of  the  bread  and  the  slices  look 
so  "naked"  without  it. 

Unless  the  loaf  is  of  the  regular  sandwich  style,  cut  it  in  two 
in  the  middle,  spread  each  cut  surface,  if  butter  is  to  be  used, 
and  cut  ofE  a  thin  slice  from  each  half  loaf.  Cover  one  slice 
with  the  sandwich  filling  and  lay  the  other  on  top  of  that,  press- 
ing well  together.  Cut  into  triangles,  squares  or  strips.  Con- 
tinue cutting  slices  from  each  half  loaf,  then  they  will  fit. 

Cream  (not  melt)  the  butter  before  spreading;  it  may  have 
chopped  parsley,  onion  orlemon  juice  or  other  flavorings  worked 
into  it. 

For  rolled  sandwiches,  the  crust  will  have  to  be  cut  off  unless 

it  is  very  pliable.     Cut  slices  thin,  spread  with  the  desired  filling 

and  roll  as  close  as  possible.     If  they  should  not  stay  together 

■  well,  fasten  with  sharp  pointed  Japanese  toothpicks      They  may 

be  tied  with  baby  ribbon. 

[465] 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


466  THE    LAUREL 

Steam  figs,  seeded  raisins  and  dates  and  grind  in  food  cutter 
for  sweet  sandwiches. 

Scrambled  eggs  are  better  in  sandwiches  than  hard  boiled. 
Hard  boiled  eggs  may  be  rubbed  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  with 
butter  and  salt. 

When  mayonnaise  dressing  is  used,  put  sandwiches  tc^ether 
just  before  serving. 

Onion  sandwiches,  when  carried,  must  be  packed  in  a  close 
covered  box  by  themselves. 

To  keep  moist,  cover  pf ate  with  lettuce  leaves,  lay  sandwiches 
on  and  cover  with  dampened  lettuce  leaves.  Or,  cover  plate  of 
sandwiches  with  a  towel  wrung  out  of  cold  water  and  set  in  cool 
place.  Or,  wrap  sandwiches  in  a  damp  napkin  or  waxed  paper 
and  place  in  close  covered  tin  box  or  stone  jar  and  set  in  cool 
place.  It  is  better  to  have  everything  ready  and  put  the  sand- 
wiches together  just  before  serving. 

Garnishing — -Sandwiches  are  much  more  attractive  if  a  few 
sprays  of  parsley  are  placed  around  the  edges  before  the  second 
slice  of  bread  is  laid  on.  Sprigs  of  celery  orsmallspinach  leaves 
may  be  used,  or  a  narrow  strip  of  lettuce  may  be  laid  around 
the  edges,  so  that  it  will  look  like  a  dainty  ruffle  of  green. 

Sweet  sandwiches  may  be  served  with  cereal  coffee,  tea-hy- 
giene, egg  drinks  or  e^  creams. 

Plates  of  sandwiches  may  be  garnished  with  chervil,  parsley, 
lettuce,  celery  or  carrot  tops,  ferns,  leaves  or  flowere. 

FILLINGB  FOB  SANDWICHES 

Salt  understood 
Egga — Scrambled  without  liquid,  rather  soft,  served  hot  or 
cold. 

Hard  boiled,  while  warm  minced  with  fork  and  mixed  with  but- 
ter and  salt. 

Hard  boiled,  sliced,  between  slices  of  bread  spread  with  thick, 
rich  cream  sauce;  chopped  parsley,  with  or  without  celery  or 
onion. 


o,CjOO»^Ic 


SANDWICHES  467 

Scrambled  or  hard  boiled  (if  hard  boiled,   rubbed  through  wire 

strainer),  mixed  with  improved  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Huts — Chopped  black  walnut  meats  mixed  with  peanut  but- 
ter which  has  been  blended  with  a  little  water  or  tomato. 
Almond  butter  on  bread,  minced  tarragon,  drained  red  raspberry 

and  ripe  red  currant  pulp  sweetened,  between. 
Chopped  almonds,  basil,  sliced  or  chopped  peaches,  sugar. 
Butternuts  or  pine  nuts,  rolled;  bread,  crackers  or  Boston  brown 

bread. 
*Nut  butter,  roasted  or  steamed,  blended  with  waterand  mixed 

with  chopped  ripe  olives,  no  salt. 
Nut  butter  blended  with  strained  tomato  and  mixed  with  sliced 

ripe  olives. 
•k  Nut  butter,  roasted  or  steamed,  water,  chopped  soaked  dried 
oUves,  on  crackers. 
Nut  butter,  and  tomato  pulp. 
4-  Pine  nuts,   butter  or  rolled;  tomato   pulp,   with  or  without 

chopped  soaked  dried  olives,  on  crackers. 

Tmmese — Trumese   ^,     nutmese    J^,     mince  together  with 

fork,  add  a  little  pdrd.  leaf  sage  or  fine  sliced  celery  sometimes. 
Minced,  between  slices  of  bread  spread  with  tart  jelly.     Sage 

sometimes. 
And  celery  salad,  trumese  minced  and  celery  cut  very  fine. 
Minced  and  mixed  with  thick,  rich  cream  sauce. 
Olive  oil  and  lemon  juice. 

Hutmeae — or  steamed  nut  butter,  and  cream  (sweet  or  sour); 

mix  to  paste,   add  onion  juice,   and  if  desired,   lemon   juice; 

celery  sometimes  without  lemon  juice.     Bread  or  crackers. 
Or  unroasted  nut  butter,  chopped  or  sliced  onions  and  improved 

mayonnaise  dressing. 
Minced,  on  bread,  stewed  green  peas  between. 
Sliced,  on  one  slice  of  bread  and  tart  jelly  on  the  other,  press 

together. 

Bipe  Olives — Sliced,  between  slices  of  bread  spread  with  im- 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


468  THE    LAUREL 

proved    mayonnaise   dressing.     Also   ripe    olives    and  tomato, 
chopped,  mixed  with  cracker  dust. 
I>egmii6B — Lima  beans,  mashed  with  butter. 

Peas,  green,  mashed  very  dry  with  celery  or  celery  saft  and  cream. 

Beans,  crushed  or  mashed,  sliced  cucumbers,  oil;  lemon  juice 
sometimes. 

Chick  peas  or  lentils,  mashed,  dry;  mushrooms  dried  or  fresh, 
cooked  in  a  little  water  with  butter,  chopped,  added  with 
liquid  to  peas. 

Cottage  Cheese — Soft,  creamy,  with  or  without  chopped  or 
sliced  ripe  olives;  white,  whole  wheat  or  Boston  brown  bread 
or  crackers. 

Spread  on  slices  of  rye  bread  {made  with  or  without  caraway), 
with  pecan  meats  between,  with  or  without  celery. 
Boston  Brown  Bread — Whipped  cream,  butter  or  oil  (not  for- 
getting salt);  sliced  cucumbers.     Brazil  nut,   almond  or  pine 
nut  butter  may  be  used. 

Roasted  peanut  butter  and  sliced  figs  or  dates. 
Spinach — Tender  fresh  leaves,  cut  fine,  a  few  delicate  whole 
ones  around  edge,  with  any  preferred  dressing. 
Celery — Brazil  nut  butter  on  bread  or  crackers;  sliced,   crisp 
celery  between. 

Tomato — ^Thin  slices  of  tomato  between  slices  of  bread  spread 
with  improved  mayonnaise  dressing.  A  little  chopped  onion 
sometimes. 

Cucumber — Substitute  cucumber  for  tomato  in  above. 
Mayonnaise— Improved— Flavor  with  onion,  chives,  parsley, 
fresh  thyme  or  tarragon,  or  combinations  of  same  and  spread 
on  bread  or  crackers. 

Onion — Slice  fine,  let  stand  in  ice  water  }i  hour  or  more, 
changing  water  2  or  3  times.  Drain  and  dry  in  clean  towel 
and  place  with  parsley  leaves  between  slices  of  bread  spread 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  nut  or  dairy  butter  or  salted  oil. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SANDWICHES  469 

Carrot  aad  Celery,  or  Onion — Grated  raw  carrot  and  fine  sliced 
celery  or  onion,  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Scented— Clorer — Place  blossoms  in  bottom  of  tureen,  lay  on 
loaf  of  bread  from  which  the  crusts  have  been  trimmed  and 
cover  with  blossoms.     Coverandset  in  cool  place  for  i2  hours 
or  longer.     Wrap  butter  in  cheese  cloth  and  put  into  another 
dish  the  same  way.     These  sandwiches  are  simply  bread  and 
butter.      Mignonnette,   violets,    nasturtiums,    rose    leaves  or 
any  highly  scented  flowers  or  leaves  may  be  used. 
Brown  and  Wtiite — Lay  togetherthree  slicesof  buttered  white 
bread  and  two  of  graham  or  rye,  alternating.   Set  in  cold  place 
with  gentle  pressure  for  an  hour  or  more.     Slice  to  serve.   ■ 
Sweet—Better  than  Cake — Spread    crackers   or  thin  universal 
biscuit  with  butter  and  honey. 

English  walnuts,  raisins,  sugar,  white  of  egg,  vaniila;  put  be- 
tween crackers  and  heat  in  oven. 

Brazil  nuts,  pecans  or  almonds,  with  figs  or  dates. 

Orange  pulp,  shredded  mint,  sugar,  sweet  dressing  or  whipped 
cream. 

Grated  or  desiccated  cocoanut,  moistened  with  cream,  with 
sliced  or  ground  dates,  figs  or  raisins  and  vanilla. 

Equal  quantities  chopped  dates  and  raisins;  grape  juice  to  moisten. 

Almond  butter,  sugar  or  not,  vanilla,  ground  or  fine  sliced  citron. 

Butternuts  or  nut  butter,  date,  fig  or  raisin  pulp,  crackers  or 
pastry  wafers. 

Thin  slices  of  banana  between  slices  of  bread  spread  with  cream 
and  honey  mixed,  with  or  without  a  few  chopped  nuts. 
Sponge  cake  instead  of  bread,  sometimes. 

Quince  jelly, chopped  hickory  or  pecan  nut  meats. 

Boston  brown  bread,  raisinsordates,  English  walnutsorpecans, 
cocoanut  cream  or  Brazil  nut  butter,  or  no  butter. 

Pastry  crust,  prick  with  fork,  cut  in  any  desired  shape,  bake; 
spread  with  chopped  almonds  mixed  with  peach  marmalade  or 
any  desired  sweet  or  jelly  and  put  two  pieces  together. 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


470  THE   LAUREL 

BoUed — Plain  or  scented  bread  and  butter. 

Figs  steamed,  ground,  cream  and  vanilla. 

Roll  buttered  bread  from  corner  over  slender  stalks  of  crisp 
celery.  The  small  inside  stalks  are  preferable.  Turn  the 
leaf  ends  of  the  stalks  so  that  they  will  show  at  each  end  of 
the  roll.  A  lengthwise  strip  of  cucumber  may  be  substituted 
for  the  celery,  and  parsley  used  for  garnish. 

OPEn  BAKDWICHES-CAHAFES 

These  are  daintily  arranged  bits  of  bread  cut  into  rounds,  ovals 
or  any  fancy  shape;  sometimes  toasted  on  one  side;  served 
most  suitably  at  a  luncheon  or  supper  and  eaten  with  a  fork. 
Crackers  are  more  suitable  forsome  coverings.  Much  taste  may 
be  displayed  in  the  arrangement  of  canapes. 

Mushroom  Canapes 
Toast  rounds  of  bread  on  one  side,  lay  toasted  side  down  on 
individual  plates  and  cover  the  other  side  with  chopped  mush- 
rooms cooked  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  with  butter,  and  lay 
one  small  broiled  mushroom  (or  one  that  has  been  cooked  the 
same  as  the  chopped),  cup  side  up,  in  the  center.  Garnish  with 
lettuce,  chervil,  spinach  or  parsley. 

Trumese  and  Egg  Canape 
Moisten  hashed  trumese  with  a  little  rich  cream  or  brown 
sauce.  Toast  diamonds  of  bread  on  one  side  and  dip  the  other 
side  in  melted  butter.  Scramble  eggs  soft  and  fine  and  place  in 
center  of  toast,  diamond  shape,  then  cover  theremainderof  the 
toast  with  the  trumese,  making  a  diamond  shaped  border  of  it. 
Lay  a  piece  of  green  string  bean  cut  in  diamond  shap>e  in  the 
center;  set  in  the  oven  a  moment,  serve  on  individual  plates. 

Tnfli^in  CanapoB 
Mince  trumese  salad  entree  tine  and  rub  hard  boiled  yolks  of 
eggs  with  some  of  the  dressing;  spread  on  untoasted  side  of  strips 
of  bread  or  thin  wafers.     Garnish  plate  with  slicesof  lemon  and 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


SANDWICHES  471 

tomato  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley  or  with  a  leaf  of  parsley 
or  spinach  on  each. 

Baaaian  Canapes 
Drain  Chili  sauce  and  rub  through  strainer,  place  pulp  in  cen- 
ter of  large  wafer,  surround  with  salted,  riced  yolk  of  hard  boiled 
egg,  finishing  with  a  wreath  of  the  riced  white  of  egg  sprinkled 
with  chopped  parsley.  A  leaf  of  green  may  be  laid  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  Chili  sauce.     Toasted  bread  may  be  used. 

Cottage  Cheese  Canapes 

Cover  crackers  or  circles  of  toast  with  creamy  cottage  cheese. 
Make  a  border  on  cheese  of  small  leaves  of  parsley  and  place  a 
star  or  other  shape  of  boiled  red  beet  or  carrot  in  the  center. 
Serve  with  lettuce  salad. 

Ripe  olives  may  be  combined  with  cheese  for  canapes.  Pastry 
wafers  may  be  used. 

An  oxeye  daisy,  p.  3T,  may  be  placed  in  center  of  canape,  in 
the  wreath  of  parsley. 

Sweet  canapes  may  be  prepared  in  great  variety.  The  sand- 
wich filling  of  cocoanut  moistened  with  cream,  with  dates,  figs 
or  raisins  would  be  very  pretty  if  wafer  were  spread  with  the 
sweet  pulp,  then  covered  with  cocoanut  decorated  with  citrcn 
or  angelica  and  candied  cherries  in  fancy  shapes  or  chopped. 
Pastry  wafers  would  be  especially  suitable  for  some  of  the  sweet 
canapes. 

Sandwich  i,  la  Balade 

Roll  strips  of  trumese  salad  entree  in  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
fasten  with  Japanese  toothpicks  and  serve  on  crackers  or  strips 
of  zwieback  or  with  crescent  sandwiches  of  bread  and  butter;  or 
the  salad  without  the  toothpick  may  be  snugly  rolled  in  a  bread 
and  butter  or  bread  and  oil  sandwich. 

Bister  Btarr's  Tomato  Sandwioh 

Chop  together  scrambled  egg,  oil  and  drained  tomato  (raw  or 

canned),  not  forgetting  the  salt,  add  cracker  crumbs  to  make  of 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


473  THE   LAUREL 

the  right  consistency  and   serve   between    crackers  or  slices  of 
bread. 

Variegated  Sandvlohes 

Make  three  equal  sized  loaves  of  universal  crust,  one  tinted  a 
delicate  pink  with  fruit  color,  one  left  white,  and  the  third  made 
of  part  graham  flour  with  a  little  dark  brown  flour  in  the  sponge. 

When  old  enough,  cut  in  slices,  butter,  pack  together — brown, 
pink  and  white — and  set  in  refrigerator  with  weight  on  top. 

To  serve,  cut  in  slices,  then  in  any  desired  shape. 
Englisli  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Spread  butter  on  loaf  and  cut  in  just  as  thin  slices  as  possible 
roll,  fold,  or  place  slices  tt^ether. 

■ff  Trumese  Sandwiobes—noD-Btaroli 

Broil  thin  slices  of  trumese  and  place  between  them,  scram- 
bled eggs,  or  fine  sliced  onions  or  celery;  garnish. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


HILK,  CREAH,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 


"The  time  has  not  come  to  say  that  the  use  of  milk  and  eggs 
should  be  wholly  discarded." 

"But  because  disease  in  animals  is  increasing,  the  time  will 
soon  come  when  there  will  be  no  safety  in  using  eggs,  milk, 
cream  or  butter." 

"If  milk  is  used,  it  should  be  thoroughly  sterilized;  with  this 
precaution  there  is  less  danger  of  contracting  disease  from  its 
use." 

State  Boards  of  Health  and  Experiment  Stations  declare  that 
from  fifteen  to  thirty  per  cent,  of  the  cows  from  which  our  cities 
draw  their  milk  supply  are  affected  with  tuberculosis.  In  one 
locality  it  was  found  that  65  per  cent,  of  the  best  milk  that  was 
presented  was  tubercular. 

"Examination  has  determined  that  cream  has  from  10  to  500 
times  as  many  bacteria  in  a  given  quantity  of  milk  as  mixed 
milk.  The  bacteria  nearly  all  rise  to  the  top  with  the  cream  " 
—  " Life  and  Health^'  April,  1909. 

In  considering  the  question  of  appendicitis,  a  writer  in  the 
American  Medical  Journal  says;  "The  chief  sources  of  tuber- 
culosis infection  of  the  alimentary  tract  are  the  ingestion  of  milk, 
butter  and  cheese  from  tuberculous  cows 

"These  authors  (of  the  Experiment  Station  in  Washington) 
consider  that  a  very  large  amount  of  butter  infected  with  tubercle 
bacilli  is  daily  consumed  by  our  people 

"  Measure  for  measure,  infected  butter  is  a  greater  tubercular 
danger  than  infected  milk Tests  show  that  in  the  ordi- 
nary salted  butter  of  commerce  the  Koch  bacillus  'may  hve  and 
retain  virulence  practically  four  and  a  half  months  or  longer.'  " 
To  Fasteuriie  UHk 

Place  a  dairy  thermometer,  or  one  in  an  unpainted  tin  case, 

[4;3] 


■  b.CjOOi^lc 


474  THE    LAUREL 

in  the  milk;  heat,  preferably  in  double  boiler,  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible, to  a  temperature  of  not  less  than  140  degrees  F.  and  keep 
it  there  for  40  m.,  or  raise  to  158  degrees  F.  for  10-20  m.  Cool 
rapidly.  The  rapid  heating  and  cooling  are  necessary  becaost- 
a  warm  temperature  is  most  favorable  for  the  development  of 
germs  and  the  spores  of  germs  which  (spores)  are  not  destroyed 
by  this  treatment  of  milk. 

When  milk  is  to  be  kept  for  several  hours  it  should  be  heated 
in  air-tight  bottles  or  in  bottles  which  have  stoppers  of  sterilized 
cotton,  by  starting  them  in  cold  water  and  keeping  them  at  a 
temperature  of  149  degrees  F.  for  a  half  hour  after  bringing  the 
water  to  that  point. 

Pasteurizing  milk  does  not  give  it  the  cooked  taste  that  a  higher 
temperature  does. 

When  it  is  not  possible  to  carry  out  these  directions,  just  bring 
milk  to  the  boiling  point,  or  set  bottles  of  milk  or  cream  in  cold 
water,  bring  the  water  to  boiling  and  boil  for  10-20  m.  Of 
course  the  bottles  should  have  something  underneath  them,  to 
keep  them  from  touching  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  in  which  they 
are  standing. 

To  SterUixe  Butter 
Boil  butter  in  a  generous  amount  of  water  thoroughly.     Cool, 
remove  from  the  top  of  the  water  and  drain. 
Sterilised  Butter 
Pasteurize  sweet  cream  the  same  as  milk,   cool  quickly,  let 
stand  covered  in  a  cold  place  for  at  least  4  hrs;  whip  or  beat  in 
a  deep  vessel,   the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler  or  a  pitcher, 
(some  think  it  easier  to  shake  the  cream  in  a  tightly  corked, 
wide  mouthed  bottle  or  jar)  until  like  whipped  cream;  then  set 
the  dish  in  slightly  warm  water,  to  raise  the  temperature  of  the 
cream  enough  to  cause  the  butter  to  separate  but  not  enough 
to  make  it  oily.     Remove  the  dish  from  warmwater  just  as  soon 
as  butter  begins  to  separate;  pour  off  buttermilk  and  pour  pure 
cold  water  over  the  butter.     Work  a  little  and  pour  water  ofT; 


o.Coot^lc 


MILK,  CREAM,   BUTTER,   CHEESE  475' 

next  pour  on  water  with  alittle  salt  (i  teaspn.  tothequart)  and 
let  it  stand  from  lo  to  15  m.  Remove  butter  to  cold  dish,  add 
salt,  about  %  tablespn.  to  the  pound,  if  unsalted  butter  is  not  pre- 
ferred; work  a  little,  cover  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  salt  water, 
and  let  stand  a  few  hours  in  a  clean  airy  place.  Then  work  a 
little  and  shape  as  desired.  Do  not  work  enough  to  spoil  the 
grain  and  make  the  butter  oily. 

This  is  the  method  with  which  I  have  had  the  best  success. 
The  regular  temperature  for  churning  cream  is  from  58  to  60 
degrees  by  the  thermometer.  Sterilized  butter  should  be  made 
fresh  every  day. 

"Protein  is  the  most  costly  of  the  food  ingredients  and  the 
one  most  likely  to  be  lacking  in  inexpensive  meals,  and  is  the 
nutrient  which  skim  milk  supplies  in  a  cheap  and  useful  form." 
~~R.  D.  Milner.  Ph.  B.  Farmers'  Bulletin,  363.  U.  S.  Dept. 
of  Agriculture. 

"Sour  milk  is  the  safest  form  touse  if  milk  is  not  Pasteurized, 
as  the  acid  of  the  milk  kills  all  the  germs  except  the  lactic  acid 
germ." — Dr.  Rand. 

"People  who  cannot  digest  fresh  milk  or  in  whom  it  produces 
a  feeling  of  heaviness  and  discomfort,  can  eat  large  quantities 
of  curdled  milk  without  inconvenience." — W.  Bro%\.-u,  M.  B., 
Ch.  B.,  in  Edinbnrgli  Medical  Journal. 

"Lactic  acid  precipitates  the  casein  (clabbers  the  milk)  but 
does  not  affect  the  fats  and  salts.  Its  effect  on  the  casein  is  to 
improve  the  digestibility  of  this  important  compound,  the  meat 

element,  which  is  the  most  valuable  constituent  of  milk 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  sour  milk  is  really  a  more  healthful  food 
than  sweet  milk,  digesting  more  rapidly  and  more  completely." 
—  If.  M.  Esten,  in  Starr's  Bulletin,  No.  59. 

Directions  for  making  artificial  buttermilk  come  with  the  tab- 
lets and  preparations  sold  for  that  purpose. 

As  milk  is  a  hearty  food  it  should  not   be  taken  with  other 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


47^  THE    LAUREL 

heavy  foods  such  as  nuts,  legumes  or  eggs,  but  with  bread,  zwie- 
back, crackers  or  rolls,  parched  or  popped  corn  and  other  cereals. 

Clear  milk  is  coagulated  by  the  gastric  juice  and  should  be 
taken  slowly,  in  small  amounts,  so  that  the  acid  may  have  a 
chance  to  mix  with  it  and  form  the  curd  in  small  particles. 
When  drank  rapidly,  the  curd  will  form  in  large  pieces  and  be 
difficult  of  digestion,  often  causing  distress  and  disease. 

Some  can  digest  sweet  milk  better  if  an  acid  is  taken  with  it, 
but,  as  a  rule,  such  individuals  would  better  take  nut  milk  and 
cream,  preferably  nuts,  and  plenty  of  juicy  fruits. 

In  fact,  considering  the  increase  of  disease  among  animals, 
it  were  better  for  us  all  to  be  learning  more  and  more  how  to 
prepare  foods  without  milk  and  eggs,  educating  ourselves  and 
others  away  from  them. 

The  next  thing  to  copper  or  re-tinned  vessels  for  heating  milk 
to  the  boiling  point  without  scorching,  is  a  nice  clean  iron  fry- 
ing pan  or  round  bottomed  iron  kettle.  I  have  used  a  stone 
milk  crock. 

Brush  the  inside  of  whatever  dish  milk  is  to  be  heated  in  with 
oil  or  butter,  as  a  still  further  precaution  against  scorching,  for 
scorched  milk  is  unusable. 

Wash  all  utensils  used  for  milk  first  in  cold  water,  then  with 
warm  soapsuds,  and  then  scald  with  perfectly  boiling  water. 
Wipe  with  clean  dry  towels  and  if  possible  put  them  in  the  sun. 

When  hot  water  is  poured  into  vessels  before  they  are  washed 
clean,  the  casein  is  glued  into  the  crevices,  ready  to  make  mis- 
chief with  the  next  lot  of  milk. 

Condensed  milk,  containing  cane  sugar,  is  thought  by  many 
physicians  to  be  the  cause  of  the  great  increase  of  diabetes, 
especially  among  children. 

A  pinch  of  salt  added  to  rather  thin  cream  will  cause  it  to 
whip  up  light.  Whip  cream  in  a  pitcher,  the  inner  cup  of  a 
double  boiler  or  even  in  a  tin  can,  something  deep  and  small 
around.     Of  course  the  cream  and  utensils  should  be  very  cold, 

U.q,t,zcob,CjOO»^IC 


MILK,  CRBAH,  BUTTER,  CHEESE  477 

Stop  whipping  while  cream  is  smooth,  before  it  begins  to  have 
any  rough  appearance. 

Soalded,  DevonBhire  or  Clotted  Cream 

Let  milk  stand  undisturbed  in  a  cool,  well  ventilated  place 
for  12  hours  in  summer,  24  in  winter.  Then  set  the  pan  care- 
fully in  some  place  over  the  fire  where  it  will  heat  very  slowly 
almost  to  the  boiling  point ;  it  must  not  boil.  (It  is  better  to  set 
the  pan  in  water  which  will  come  up  on  the  sides  as  high  as  the 
milk.)  Let  stand  again  in  a  cool  place  for  12  hours  or  until 
thoroughly  cooled.  Divide  with  a  knife  into  squares,  and  skim 
by  folding  these  squares  over  and  over  in  rolls.  Set  in  a  cool 
place.  This  is  a  most  delightful  substitute  for  butter  on  bread, 
and  it  may  also  be  used  with  cereals  and  fruits. 

The  cream  may  be  placed  by  skimmerfuls  in  layers  on  a  plate 
instead  of  being  rolled. 

USES  OF  SOUB  CBEAU  WITHOUT  SODA 
Sour  cream  may  be  used  without  soda  in — Pie  Crust;  Shortcake 
Crust;  Dumplings  for  Pot  Pies;  Steamed  Puddings,  and  all  places 
where  universal  crust  is  used;  Salad  Dressings  in  all  places  where 
sweet  cream  is  used;  Soups,  just  before  serving;  Stewed  Cabbage 
and  Stewed  Tomatoes;  Gravy;  Macaroni;  Cottage  Cheese — much 
better  than  sweet  cream;  Dominion  Salad  Dressing;  Crackers; 
Cream  Lemon  Sauce;  Lemon  Cream  Sauce;  Sauce  Antique;  Pie  Fill- 
ing and  Cake  Fillings.  With  Green  Peas,  mixed  with  a  little  flour 
before  putting  it  in,  it  can  not  be  distinguished  from  sweet  cream;  and 
the  same  with  all  vegetables  with  which  I  have  tried  it  excepting 
string  beans:  in  those  it  tastes  a  little  tart.  It  may  be  poured  over 
Trumese  in  half-loaves  or  in  slices  to  bake;  and  Whipped,  when 
the  slight  tartness  is  desirable. 


The  process  of  "ripening"  in  cheese  is  a  process  of  decay, 
and  poisonous  ptomaines  are  often  developed.  I  have  no  doubt 
but  it  would  be  better  if  cheese  were  never  taken  into  the  hu- 
man stomach.  Our  Father  has  given  us  such  an  abundance  of 
clean,  wholesome  foods  to  select  from  that  we  can  well  afford 
to  disregard  the  questionable  ones. 


478  THE    LAUREL 

Cottage  Cheese 

Skim  a  pan  of  well  thickened  sour  milk,  cut  it  carefully  into 
2-in.  squares  and  set  into  a  cool  oven  on  an  iron  ring,  or  some- 
thing to  keep  it  from  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  and  leave'the  door 
open.  Turn  the  pan  occasionally  but  do  not  stir  the  milk.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  it  get  too  warm.  It  should  neverbe  hot,  only 
a  little  above  blood  heat.  I  have  sometimes  made  it  in  the 
summer  by  setting  the  pan  in  the  sun.  When  the  curd  and 
whey  have  separated,  turn  all  into  a  bag  and  hang  up  to  drain. 
Do  not  drain  the  curd  too  dry.  Season  with  sweet  or  sour 
cream  and  a  little  salt;  pile  in  a  rocky  mass  in  a  glass  dish  and 
set  in  a  cool  place. 

Pass  Chili  sauce.  Sauce  Am^ricaine  or  improved  mayonnaise 
dressing  with  it,  in  serving. 

Thick  strained  stewed  tomato  may  be  used  instead  of  or  with 
the  cream. 

If  milk  is  stirred  while  thickening  or  while  heating,  it  will 
yield  only  about  J4  as  much  cheese  as  it  would  otherwise. 

If  properly  made  the  cheese  will  be  soft  and  creamy,  instead 
of  rough,  dry  and  tasteless.  It  should  never  be  used  in  anything 
that  is  to  be  raised  to  a  high  temperature,  as  that  would  make  it 
hard  and  indigestible. 

Cottage  cheese  is  a  strong  meat  food,  being  the  casein  of  the 
milk  separated  from  the  water. 

Zeiger  04se 

I  gallon  fresh  milk,  i  pt.  thick  sour  milk,  3  e^s.  Beat  eggs, 
and  sour  milk  tt^ether  and  stir  slowly  into  sweet  milk  just  as  it 
begins  to  boil.  When  curd  rises  to  top,  skim  into  colander  and 
drain. 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


DBINE8 

"Two-thirds  of  all  the  patients  that  come  to  my^office  come 
because  they  drink  tea  and  coffee.  When  I  can  get  them  to 
give  up  tea  and  coffee,  they  can  get  well. " — Dr.  Foote.  Omaha. 

Tea  and  coffee  hinder  the  digestion  of  all  the  food  elements, 
both  nitrogenous  and  carbonaceous.  They  cause  extreme  nerv- 
ousness and  irritability. 

"To  a  certain  extent,  tea  produces  intoxication." 

"The  second  effect  of  tea  drinking  is  headache,  wakefulness, 
palpitation  of  the  heart,  indigestion,  trembling  of  the  nervesand 
many  other  evils." 

"The  influence  of  coffee  is  in  a  degree  the  same  as  that  of  tea, 
but  the  effect  upon  the  system  is  still  worse." 

Theobromine,  the  essential  element  of  cocoa  and  chocolate, 
is  identical  with  the  thein  and  caffeine  of  tea  and  coffee. 

"Some  of  the  best  authorities  claim  that  the  quantity  of  theo- 
bromine in  chocolate  is  greater  than  that  of  theine  or  caffeine  in 
tea  or  coffee,  and  also  that  in  equal  quantities,  theobromine  is  a 
stronger  drug  than  caffeine  or  theine." — Dr.  George. 

A.  B.  Prescott,  Ph.  D.,  M.  D.,  for  many  years  Dean  of  the 
chemical  department  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  says  in  his 
"Organic  Analysis,"  published  by  D.  Van  Nostrand  Co.,  New 
York  City  in  1892,  pp.  77  and  513:  "Coffee  contains  i  per  cent. 
of  caffeine."  "Dry  cacao  seeds  contain  1.5  per  cent,  of  theo- 
bromine." "The  physiological  effects  of  theobromine  are  like 
caffeine  but  are  obtained  by  smaller  doses." 

The  increasing  use  of  chocolate  and  cocoa  in  and  with  every- 
thing is  alarming,  and  we  feel  that  we  must  raise  our  voices  in 
warning  against  this  "habit,"  since  manyare  innocent  in  regard 
to  its  nature. 

[475] 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


480  THE    LAUREL 

"The  use  of  unnatural  stimulants  is  destructive  to  health  and 
has  a  benumbing  influence  upon  the  brain,  makingit  impossible 
to  appreciate  eternal  things." 

As  our  bodies  are  made  up  so  largely  of  water  it  is  necessar>' 
to  take  a  sufficient  amount  to  keep  the  tissues  bathed  and  built 
up,  but  it  should  not  be  taken  with  our  meals,  for  solid  foods 
cannot  be  digested  until  the  liquids  have  been  absorbed,  and 
when  retained  in  the  stomach  too  \onglooA  ferments,  making  an 
inebriate  ol  the  water  drinker. 

Fluids  also  dilute  the  digestive  juices  so  that  they  lose  their 
power  to  act.  Do  not  drink  for  a  half  hour  or  more  before 
meals,  or  within  1  to  3  hours  after — persons  with  slow  digestion 
or  subject  to  acidity,  3  hours. 

If  very  cold  or  hot  drinks  are  taken,  the  temperature  at  which 
digestion  is  carried  on  is  afiected,  causing  another  delay. 

As  a  rule,  the  body  gets  the  greatest  benefit  from  water  taken 
early  in  the  morning. 

Pastor  Kneipp  recommended  the  use  of  small  quantities  of 
water  (i  teaspoonful),  often.  If  one  is  situated  so  as  to  be  able 
to  take  a  few  swallows  frequently,  it  is  better  than  to  deluge  the 
stomach  three  or  four  times  a  day;  as  a  steady,  gentle  rain  is 
more  beneficial  than  a  torrent. 

Hot  water,  at  one  time  the  great  panacea,  is  responsible  for 
many  cases  of  serious  indigestion  by  causing  the  muscles  of  the 
stomach  to  relax  and  become  weak,  A  cup  of  hot  water  occa- 
sionally, when  one  feels  that  he  has  taken  a  little  cold,  will  help 
to  ward  off  the  cold  but  it  should  not  be  often  repeated. 

The  advice  of  one  doctor  of  great  sense  and  considerable  rep- 
utation was  "Drink  cold  water  lulu-n  thirst)'." 

Pure  Distilled  Water  is  unquestionably  the  best  drink. 
Mineral  Waters  sometimes  have  a  beneficial  effect  when  used 
for  a  short  time,  but  that  is  lost  by  their  continued  use  and  after 
a  few  weeks  the  individual  begins  to  suffer  with  serious  stomach 
and  kidney  difficulties. 


;abyGoO<^lc 


DRINKS  481 

^' Very  Hard  Water  is  not  only  unpleasant  to  the  skin  and  diffi- 
cult to  make  into  a  lather,  but,  what  is  more  important  still,  it 
exerts  a  more  or  less  harmful  influence  upon  the  digestive  system. 
Constipation  is  not  infrequently  the  direct  result  of  the  constant 
use  of  hard  water.  Wherever  [>ossible  apparatus  should  be  used 
tor  the  purpose  of  distilling  hard  water.  If  this  is  impracticable, 
boiling  the  water  will  materially  reduce  the  hardness.  The  flat- 
ness of  boiled  water  is  easily  and  quickly  remedied  by  aerating  it. 
Pouring  water  back  and  forth  from  one  glass  to  another  will 
speedily  restore  its  oxygen." — English  Good  Health. 

The  liberal  use  of  Fresh  Juicy  Fruits  helps  out  in  the  amount 
of  fluids.  I  have  known  a  few  people  who  ate  no  meat  and 
almost  no  vegetables,  but  did  use  juicy  acid  fruits  in  abundance, 
who  never  felt  the  pangs  of  thirst,  and  they  were  in  exceptionally 
good  health,  with  great  powers  of  endurance. 

The  change  of  water  in  travelling  affects  many  people  unfavor- 
ably and  often  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  pure  water.  The  substi- 
tution of  juicy  fruits  at  such  times  banishes  the  difficulties. 

Fruit  Nectars 

We  make  "fruit  nectars"  by  adding  lemon  juice,  sugar  and 
water  (the  less  sugar  the  better,  a  sugar  syrup  is  preferable)  to 
pure  fruit  juices  and  to  combinations  of  fruit  juices.  Some,  such 
as  grape  and  black  raspberry,  will  bear  a  good  deal  of  water,  but 
pineapple  and  other  delicate  flavored  juices  very  little. 

If  pineapple  is  combined  with  another  juice,  let  it  be  some- 
thing without  a  strong,  positive  flavor  {as  orange  or  strawberry), 
or  the  pineapple  juice  will  be  wasted.  A  strong  and  a  neutral 
flavored  juice,  red  raspberry  and  currant  for  instance,  go  well 
tc^ether.  Lemon  juice  gives  character  to  all.  Peach  and  grape 
juice,  or  apple  and  grape  juice  are  good  combinations. 

To  fully  enjoy  the  flavors,  do  not  serve  drinks  ice  cold. 

Banana  Lemon  Nectar 
Syrup — 3-4  cups  water,  %  cup  sugar,  boil;  add  %  cup  lemon 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


482  THE   LAUREL 

juice,  cool.  Cut  i  large  banana  in  smalt  pieces;  pour  syrup  over, 
let  stand  in  refrigerator  2  hours  or  longer;  strain  or  not;  serve 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Orange  Banana  Nectar 

Cut  half  a  small  orange  into  sections,  rind  and  all  and  add  to 
banana  syrup  about  20  m.  before  serving.      Before  straining,  put 
sections  intoglasses,  pour  the  strained  syrupoverthem  andserve. 
Orange  Neotar 

Add  sections  of  orange  to  lemon  syrup  without  the  banana. 
Hint  Orange  Neotar 

Add  shredded  mint  to  orange  nectar. 
Lemonades 

Lemonade,  with  but  little  sugar,  has  no  equal  as  a  drink  be- 
cause of  the  purifying  effect  of  the  lemon  juice  upon  both  the 
water  and  the  individual. 

A  strong  lemonade  requires  less  sugar  in  proportion  than  one 
having  a  large  quantity  of  water.  A  sugar  syrup  is  best  for 
sweetening,  and  the  less  used  the  better. 

Afint — Sprinkle  line  cut  spearmint  into  lemonade  10  to  15  m. 
before  serving.      Very  cooling  and  refreshing. 

^Sff — '  ^bS>  2  tablespns.  sugar,  2}i  tablespns.  lemon  juice, 
water  to  make  2  glasses.  Beat  egg  and  sugar,  add  lemon  juice 
and  beat,  then  add  water. 

White  of  Egg — 2-2  >^  tablespns.  lemon  juice,  white  of  1  egg, 
I  tablespn.  sugar.  Beat  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  add  lemon  juice, 
then  water. 

^fil/.•  and  Egg — i  egg,  %-%  cup  milk,  i  teaspn.  or  more  lemon 
juice,  a  little  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Beat  yolk  of  egg  and  add 
cold  milk,  turn  into  glass;  beat  white  of  egg  with  a  trifle  of  salt 
and  add  half  the  lemon  juice;  add  remainder  of  lemon  juice  to 
the  yolk  and  milk,  lay  white  on  top  and  serve  at  once. 

Egg  Orangeade 
Beat  the  white  of  i  egg  with  the  juice  of  i  large  sweet  orange, 
strain. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


DRINKS  483 

To  Prepare  Fruit  Juioes 

The  most  desirable  juices  for  drinks  are  made  from  fresh,  ripe, 
uncooked  fruits  by  crushing,  and  straining  through  a  cloth.  It 
is  better  to  pour  cold  water  over  some  fruits  and  let  them  stand 
for  a  while  before  straining.  Apples  may  be  sliced  or  chopped 
and  water  added. 

For  canning  fruit  juices,  see  pp.  60,  61.  The  liquid  from  soak- 
ing acid  dried  fruits  in  water  for  several  hours  (without  cooking) 
is  refreshing;  also  the  juice  in  which  chopped  raisins  have  been 
steeped. 

Cranberry  Jnioe 

Crush  or  grind  i  qt.  of  cranberries,  pour  i  qt.  of  boiling 
water  over,  cool;  add  sugar  after  straining  and  stir  until  it  is  dis- 
solved. 

Cereal  Coffees  or  Drinks 

The  bulk  of  the  so-called  "cereal"  drinks  on  the  market 
have  some  commercial  coffee  in  them,  as  well  as  chicory.  There 
are  a  few,  however,  made  of  combinations  of  grains,  or  nf  fruits, 
nuts  and  grains,  only^  Those  containing  chicory  require  a  long 
boiling,  according  to  the  directions  on  the  packages,  to  destroy 
the  rank,  harsh  flavor  of  the  chicory;  and  the  ones  made  of 
parched  grains  without  caramel  in  any  form  are  improved  by 
long  steeping  to  develop  the  mild  flavor.  But  it  is  a  great  mistake 
to  boil  those  having  a  characteristic,  agreeable  flavor  any  more 
than  we  used  to  boil  Java  or  Mocha.  To  make  these,  put  the 
cereal  (from  i  teaspn.  to  1  Yi  tablespn.  to  each  cup  of  water  ac- 
cording to  taste)  into  perfectly  boiling  water,  allow  it  to  just 
boil  up,  then  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  where  it  cannot 
boil,  for  from  5-10  m.  Serve  with  nice  rich  sterilized  cream 
(hot  better).  When  cream  is  not  obtainable  and  the  drink  must 
be  served,  hot  scalded  milk  gives  a  better  flavor  than  unscalded 
milk,  but  as  a  rule,  it  is  better  to  omit  the  coffee  when  you  have 
no  cream. 

Never  make  cereal  coffee  in  a  tin  coffee  pot  that  commercial 
coffee  has  been  made  in.     It  would  ruin  the  flavor. 


.b,Goo<^lc 


484  THE   LAUREL 

We  do  not  advise  the  drinking  of  even  cereal  coffee,  but  use 
it  to  win  people  from  injurtous  beverages. 

To  Hake  &  Cerial  Drink 

It  is  very  convenient  to  know  how  to  make  a  cereal  coffee, 
though  if  one's  time  is  worth  much  and  a  good  coffee  is  to  be 
obtained,  it  is  cheaper  to  buy  it.  The  following  recipe  is  one 
that  I  have  used  for  years  and  it  is  excellent.  None  of  the 
whole  grains  equal  bran  for  the  drink. 

I  qt.  wheat  bran  pressed  down  lightly  %  cup  hot  water 

I  pt.  corn  meat  /^cup  nice-flavored  dark  molasses 

Mix  bran  and  corn  meal  and  pour  over  them  the  molasses  and 
hot  water  which  have  been  combined.  Rub  all  together  with 
the  hands  until  smooth;  set  in  a  warm  oven  and  stir  occasion- 
ally until  well  dried  out,  then  increase  the  heat  of  the  oven, 
stirring  the  mixture  often;  at  the  last  have  the  oven  very  hot 
and  stir  almost  constantly  until  cereal  is  a.dark  chestnut  brown, 
which  will  take  but  a  short  time  at  the  last.  Remove  from  the 
oven  and  stir  until  cooled  a  little  so  that  it  will  not  brown  more 
by  its  own  heat,  and  put  into  a  close  covered  can. 

When  preparing  to  serve,  use  J^-i  cup  of  the  coffee  to  each 
quart  of  boiling  vrater,  let  it  just  boil  up  and  stand  for  5  m. 
Different  combinations  of  grains  are  browned  and  ground  for 
drinks.  Barley  is  much  liked  by  some,  rye  by  others.  Carrot 
and  celery  roots  dried  and  browned  are  good,  and  browned  peas 
are  excellent. 

Tea- Hygiene 

Celery  and  raspberry  leaf  tea  have  been  served  in  some  of  the 
restaurants  in  New  York  City  for  several  years  and  are  both 
good.  Either  the  tops  (fresh  or  dry)  or  seeds  of  celery  may  be 
used.  Crush  the  seeds  before  steeping.  I  have  also  used  mint, 
anise,  tarragon,  catnip  and  thyme  for  tea  and  found  them  all 
pleasant  drinks.  Steep  them  for  15-20  m.,  strain  and  serve 
with  cream  only.     You  will  be  surprised  I  am  sure  when  you 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


DRINKS  4S5 

try  them.      Do  not  allow  catnip  tea  to  stand  with  the  leaves  if 
to  be  re-heated. 

Bran  Tea 
Brown  bran  delicately.     Take  2  tablespns.   for  each  cup  of 
water,  boil  up  well  or  steep  for  20  m.     Dried  unbrowned  bran 
may  be  used  with  longer  cooking. 

Cold  Cereal  CoHee 

Pour  hot  coffee  over  cream  or  cream  and  sugar.     Cool.     For 
luncheon  or  supper. 


■  egg,  i4-H  cup  of  milk,  I  teaspn.  or  no  sugar,  flavoring  or 
not.  Beat  or  shake  until  foamy,  pour  into  glass  and  serve  with 
or  without  whipped  cream  on  top.  Eggnogdoes  not  necessa- 
rily contain  liquor. 

Hot  Eggnog 

Beat  1  egg  with  or  without  a  teaspn.  of  sugar  anda  few  drops 
of  vanitla.  Pour  }4-H^  cup  of  hot  milk  over,  stirring.  Turn 
into  warm  glass  and  serve  at  once. 

Cream  for  Coflee 
Beat  I  egg  to  a  foam,  add  1  tablespn.  white  sugar  and  pour  a 
pint  of  boiling  hot  milk  over,  stirring  briskly.      Prepare  at  night 
for  morning. 

Cream  for  Coffee  No.  2 
Pour  I  pt.  boiling  milk  on  beaten  yolk  of  i  e^  mixed  with  2 
tablespns.  cold  milk.     Set  back  on  the  stove  to  scald  but  not  boil. 

"Food  should  not  be  washed  down.  No  drink isoeeded  with 
the  meals.  Eat  slowly  and  allow  the  saliva  to  mingle  with  the 
food.  Hot  drinks  are  debihtating.  Do  not  eat  largely  of  salt; 
give  up  bottled  pickles;  keep  fiery  spiced  foodout  of  your  stomach; 
eat  fruit  with  your  meals,  and  the  irritation  which  calls  for  so 
much  drink  will  cease  to  exist.  But  if  anything  is  needed  to 
quench  thirst,  pure  water  drunk  some  little  time  before  or  after 
a  meal  is  all  that  nature  requires." 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


INTALID  FOODS 


"Diet  ia  the  hands  of  an  expert  is  far  more  effective  than 
drugs.  I  speak  from  a  large  experience  in  both  systems. " — ^'Food 
and  Condition."     Dr.   Yorke  Davis,  London. 

"In  many  cases  of  sickness  the  very  best  remedy  is  for  the 
patient  to  fast  for  a  meal  or  two,  that  the  overworked  oi^ns 
of  digestion  may  have  an  opportunity  to  rest." 

"A  fruit  diet  for  a  few  days  has  often  brought  great  relief  to 
brain  workers." 

"Many  times  a  short  period  of  entire  abstinence  from  food, 
followed  by  simple,  moderate  eating,  hasled  to  recovery  through 
nature's  own  recuperative  effort.  An  abstemious  diet  for  a 
month  or  two  would  convince  many  sufferers  that  the  path  of 
self-denial  is  the  path  to  health." 

"There  are  some  who  would  be  benefited  more  by  abstinence 
from  food  for  a  day  or  two  every  week  than  by  any  amount  of 
treatment  or  medical  advice.  To  fast  one  day  a  week  would  be 
of  incalculable  benefit  to  them." 


Whatever  food  is  taken  to  the  sick  should  be  prepared  and 
served  daintily  and  neatly.  If  the  tray  cloth  is  ever  so  coarse 
or  only  a  paper  napkin,  have  it  clean;  use  the  daintiest  and  pret- 
tiest china  to  be  found  and  serve  the  food  in  small  quantities, 
without  any  drops  or  streaks  on  the  edgeof  the  dishes.  A  flower 
or  leaf  by  the  side  of  the  plate,  will  give  zest  to  the  food. 

Food  should  be  simple,  nutritious  and  easily  digested.  Suit- 
able dishes  are  scattered  all  through  the  book.  Among  the 
soups  are  the  broths  and  others,  supplying  the  needs  of  different 
cases.  There  are  toasts  in  variety;  they  may  be  served  in  deli- 
cate squares,  triangles  and  crescents. 

Rice  flour  blanc  mange,  sea  moss  blanc  mange,  buttermilk, 
[486] 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


INVALID    FOODS  487 

parched  grains,  egg  creams,  fruit  whips  and  ices  are  suggestive 
of  some  of  the  especially  suitable  dishes.  Fruits  and  fruit  juices 
are  nearly  always  indicated.  Baked  apples,  sweet  and  sour, 
without  sugar,  are  staple  invalid  dishes.  Before  serving  grapes, 
remove  the  seeds  with  two  silver  forks  on  a  plate,  then  put  the 
pulp  and  juice  into  a  sauce  dish  or  glass.  Serve  the  pulp  only, 
of  oranges,  (p.  42.) 

The  most  desirable  gruels  are  those  made  of  the  dextrinized 
or  parched  cereals,  but  when  the  undextrinized  grains  are  used 
they  should  be  cooked  as  long  as  for  porridges,  in  a  somewhat 
larger  quantity  of  water,  strained,  and  thinned  with  milk,  or 
cream  and  water.  They  may  sometimes  be  cooked  in  milk. 
Cold  porridges  may  be  used. 

Qranella  Halted  Blilk  amel 
i-i/^  tablespn.  granella  2  tablespns.  thin  cream 

2-3  teaspns.  malted  milk  salt        water 

Cook  granella  in  water  to  soften,  strain,  add  malted  milk, 
cream  and  salt  which  have  been  blended;  heat,  serve. 

Egg  Qrael 
Poached  yolks  of  3  eggs,    1-2    cups   milk.     Rub  yolks  of  eggs 
smooth,  add  hot  milk,  gradually,  strain,  reheat,  salt,  serve. 
Parched  Cora  Broth 
Pour  hot   milk   over   parched    corn    meal  or  cracked  parched 
corn;  let  stand  5-10  m.,  strain.      May  use  water  and  cream. 
Almonii  G-ruel 
I  tablespn.    almond  butter,    i   cup  water,   salt.     Mix  butter 
with  water,  add  salt,  boil,  serve. 

Raisin  Qruel 
Boil  iH  cup  raisins  in  1  qt.  milk  and  water,   equal  parts,  for 
]4  hour;  strain,  squeezing  well,  thicken  with   1-2  teaspns.  flour 
blended  with  water,  add  salt. 

White  of  Egg 
Dissolve  the  whites  of  2  or  3  eggs  in  a  glass  of  water  and  give 
a  few  teaspoonfuls  every  2  or  3  hours. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


coirPEcnoNs 

'  "Si^r  clogs  the  system.  It  hinders  the  working  of  the  living 
machine." 

Children  ate  not  naturally  fond  of  sweets,  but  with  few  ex- 
ceptions their  taste  has  been  educated  to  them  from  the  cradle. 
I  have  known  children  who  were  so  unaccustomed  to  candies 
that  if  they  were  given  them  they  would  merely  play  with  them, 
never  thinking  of  putting  them  into  their  mouths,  and  others 
who  would  say  when  a  sweet  dessert  was  given  them,  "I  don't 
like  that,  it  is  too  sweet," 

Much  life-long  suffering  would  be  avoided  if  children  were 
given  plenty  of  good  ripe  fruit,  sweet  and  sour,  instead  of  con- 
fections. If,  however,  it  seems  best  sometimes  to  make  some- 
thing in  this  line,  select  the  simplest  and  least  harmful. 

Staffed  Dates 
Mix  unsalted  roasted  nut  butter  with  powdered  sugar  and  a 
little  vanilla,  form  into  pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  date  stones 
and  put  inside  each  date;  roll  in  sugar  or  not,  serve  on  grape  or 
maple  leaves. 

Serve  with  wafers,  or  with  rolls  and  cereal  coffee,  sometimes. 

Almond  or  Brazil  nut  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  peanut 

butter,  and  rose  or  other  flavoring.     Grated  cocoanut  may  be 

mixed  with  the  almond  butter.     Fill  the  dates  with  marshmal- 

low  paste  for  Marshmallow  Dates. 

Cream  Stuffed  Dates 
Make  a  roll  the  size  of  the  stone  of  confection  cream  and  in- 
sert in  date.     The  roll  may  be  larger  and  allowed  to  show  in  the 
opening. 

Stuffed  Figs 

Stuff  pulled   figs   by  removing   the  inside  and  mixing  it  with 

sweetened  and  flavored  nut  butter  or  with  coarse  chopped  Eng- 

[488] 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


CONFECTIONS  4^9 

lish  walnuts,  almonds  and  pecans,  one  or  all,  and  replacing  in 
the  skin. 

Pile  in  the  center  of  a  dessert  plate  and  surround  with  sticks 
or  beaten  biscuit.     Serve  with  or  without  cereal  coffee. 

Stuffed  Prunes 

Soak  and  steam  choice,  plump  California  prunes  until  tender, 
cover  close  until  cool,  remove  stones  and  fill  space  with  a  paste 
made  by  kneading  tc^ether  almond  butter,  white  of  egg  and 
powdered  or  confectioner's  sugar. 

Sweetmeats—FmitB  and  Nats 

I  part  each  Brazil  nuts,  almonds  and  hickory  nuts  or  filberts 
or  English  walnuts,  and  i  or  2  parts  raisins,  ligs  or  dates.  Grind 
fruit  through  finest  cutter  of  mill  and  mix  with  nut  butter  or 
meal  or  chopped  nuts.  Form  into  caramel  shape,  small  rolls  or 
cones,  or  into  a  large  roll  and  slice.  Two  or  more  of  the  sweet 
fruits  may  be  used,  sometimes  a  little  citron.  Or,  3  parts 
chopped  hickory  nut  meats,  2  parts  figs  and  other  fruits. 
A  Sweetmeat— Fmlta 

1  lb.  each  of  figs,  from  which  the  stems  and  hard  part  have 
been  cut,  stoned  dates  and  raisins;  mix  and  grind  through  food 
cutter;  sprinkle  board  with  confectioner's  sugar,  knead  mixture, 
roll  to  ]4  in.  thick,  cut  into  any  desired  shape  and  size  and  roll 
in  sugar. 

Kiesea 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  1  cup  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  with  a  little  salt,  adding  the  sugar  gradually  while  whip- 
ping until  the  mixture  is  stiff  enough  to  bold  its  shape;  add  fla- 
voring if  desired  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  to  paraffine  paper  laid 
on  boards  of  a  size  to  fit  the  oven,  or  on  baking  tins.  Dry  in 
warm  oven  for  about  an  hour,  then  brown  slightly.  If  the  oven 
is  too  warm,  they  may  now  be  put  into  the  warming  oven  or  on 
a  shelf  over  the  stove  until  thoroughly  dried.  If  the  kisses  stick 
to  the  paper,  turn  them  over  and  moisten  the  paper  slightly  and 
they  will  come  off  in  a  little  while. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


490  THE    LAUREL 

Coooannt  Caudr 

2  cups  granulated  si^r,  %  cup  milk,  i  cup  shredded  cocoa- 
nut.  Boil  sugarand  milk  tc^ether  for  4  m.,  add  cocoanut,  flavor 
to  taste  and  cool  in  buttered  tins. 

Candy  Putti 
2  cups  sugar  whites  2  eggs 

t  cup  water  i  cup  chopped  nuts 

flavoring 
Boil  sugar  and  water  till  they  spin  a  heavy  thread,  then  pour 
the  syrup  over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stirring  con- 
stantly. When  all  the  syrup  is  in,  beat  until  the  mass  begins 
to  harden;  add  flavoring  and  nuts,  mix  thoroughly  and  place  by 
teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  plates. 

Oonteotion.  or  Bonbon  Cream 
Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  8  ta- 
blespns.  sifted  powdered  sugar,  beat  well  together  and  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  any  desired  flavoring.     Or,  one  half  its  bulk  of 
water  may  be  added  to  the  white  of  e^  without  beating,  with 
enough  confectioner's  sugar  to  make  stiff  enough  to  mold  into 
balls.     Different  colors  and  flavorings  may  be  used  in  cream. 
Hat  Creams 
Halve  English  walnut  or  pecan  meats  and  put  confection  cream 
between  the  halves;  press  together  and  set  away  to  harden. 
ir  Conleotion  Potatoes 
Add  a  little  cocoanut  to  second  confection  cream,  and  form 
into  small  potato  shapes,   making  dents  for  eyes;  roll  in  fine 
powdered  coriander  or  anise  seed,  or  in  brown  sugar  with  a  little 
anise  mixed  with  it. 

Harahmallows 
4.  oz.  gum  arabic  2  teaspns.  orange  flower 

I  cup  water  water  or  i  of  vanilla 

1  %  cup  powdered  sugar  corn  starch 

whites  of  3  eggs  confectioner's  sugar 

Another  recipe  gives  2  cups  powdered  sugar  and  the  white  of 
I  e^  only,  with  the  other  ingredients. 

Soak  the  gum  arabic  in  the  water  until  soft,  strain  into  inner 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


CONFECTIONS  491 

cup  of  double  boiler,  add  sugar  and  cook,  stirring  until  thick  and 
white.  Try  in  ice  water  and  when  it  will  forma  firm,  not  hard, 
ball,  remove  from  the  fire  and  chop  and  beat  in  the  stiffly- 
whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  flavoring.  Turn  the  paste 
into  a  shallow  pan  covered  thick  with  corn  starch,  leaving  it  i 
inch  in  thickness.  When  cool  or  in  about  12  hours,  cut  into 
inch  cubes,  dust  with  confectioner's  sugar  and  pack  in  boxes. 
Marshmallows  are  better  to  be  made  as  soft  as  they  can  be 
handled. 

Old  Fashioned  Molaasea  Candr 

2  cups  molasses,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  I  tablespn.  butter. 
Boil  over  not  too  hot  fire  until  a  little  will  harden  as  soon  as  it 
drops  into  cold  water.  Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  pull  when  cool 
enough  to  handle.  Candy  may  have  hickory  nut  or  black  wal- 
nut meats  pressed  into  it  when  partly  cooled,  without  pulHng. 

The  most  important  thing  for  the  candy  is  to  get  a  good  fla- 
vored molasses.  The  real  Porto  Rico  is  best.  Do  not  be  in- 
duced to. add  soda  to  the  syrup.  It  spoils  the  rich  golden  color 
which  belongs  to  molasses  candy,  besides  making  it  more  un- 
wholesome. Brush  the  kettle  with  butter  before  putting  ingre- 
dients in. 

ETerton  Tatty 

I  large  cup  New  Orleans  molasses  )i  cup  butter 

i}6  cup  lightest  brown  sugar  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Boil  until  a  little  dropped  in  water  will  make  fine,  brittle 
threads;  pour  into  buttered  pans  !4-H  in.  thick  andcut  in  squares. 

Iiomon  Totfy-to  poll 
2  cups  sugar  3  tablespns.  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water  2  or  3  drops  lemon  extract 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  nearly  done;  add  lemon  juice  and 
cook  until  a  little  will  harden  in  cold  water;  flavor  and  turn  on 
to  buttered  plate.  Fold  the  edges  toward  the  center  as  they 
cool  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


THE    LAUREL 


FenosiA 


3  cups  light  brown  sugar  i  lb.  English  walnuts 

I  cup  milk  or  cream  (i>^  cupchopped) 

I  lablespn.  butter  i  teaspn.  vanilla 

Shell,  blanch  and  chop  the  walnuts;  boil  sugar  and  milk  until 
syrup  will  harden  when  dropped  into  water  but  will  not  become 
brittle;  just  before  it  is  done,  add  the  butter  and  vanilla;  then 
the  chopped  nuts,  stirring  them  in  well;  pour  into  buttered  pans 
and  with  sharp  knife  mark  off  the  squares.     Cool. 

Another  recipe  says  dark  brown  sugar  and  J^  cuponly  of  cream. 

XfOMnges—WlntergreeD  or  Peppermint 

2  cups  granulated  sugar        4-6  drops  true  oil  of  wintergreen.  or 
%  cup  water  3  drops  oil  of  peppermint 

Boil  sugar  and  water  rapidly  for  5  m.  after  they  begin  to  boil, 
add  the  flavoring  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Stir  briskly  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  and  to  have  a  whitish  appearance, 
then  drop  on  to  a  cold  tin  dish,  oiled  paper  or  a  marble  slab  as 
fast  as  possible,  in  as  lai^e  or  small  lozenges  as  desired.  If  the 
mixture  hardens  too  rapidly,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Do  not  place  the  lozenges  so  close  that  they  will  run  together. 
The  wintergreen  drops  may  be  tinted  pink  with  fruit  color, 

Uaple  Cream  Candy 

3  cups  grated  maple  sugar  i  cup  cream  1  teaspn.  butter 

Boil  all  together  for  12  m.,  pour  into  another  dish,  stir  until 
mixture  thickens,  pour  into  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

Hoarliomid  Candy 
3  cups  water,  2  oz.  dried  hoarhound,  3  lbs.  {2%  qts.)  brown 
sugar.  Steep  the  dried  herb  in  the  water  for  a  half  hour;  strain, 
add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  a  little  will  harden  when  dropped 
in  cold  water;  pour  on  to  buttered  tins  and  when  sufficiently  cool 
cut  into  sticks  with  oiled  knife. 


.b,CjOO»^lc 


MEALS  AND  MENUS 

"Woe  to  thee,  O  land,  when  thy  king  is  a  child,  and  thy 
princes  eat  in  the  morningl" 

"Blessed  art  thou,  O  land,  when  thy  king  is  the  son  of  nobles, 
and  thy  princes  eat  in  due  season,  for  strength  and  not  for 
drunkenness."     Eccl.  lo:i6,  17. 

Many  have  been  greatly  benefited  by  eating  the  first  meal, 
breakfast,  3-5  hours  after  rising,  according  to  their  work. 

"Eat  only  when  hungry,  drink  only  when  thirsty." — E.  H  .D. 

"Three  meals  a  day  and  nothing  between  meals,  not  even  an 
apple  should  be  the  utmost  limit  of  indulgence.  Those  who  go 
further  violate  nature's  laws  and  will  suffer  the  penalty." 

"If  you  would  give  it  a  trial,  you  would  find  two  meals  better 
than  three." 

"The  stomach,  when  we  lie  down  to  rest,  should  have  its 
work  all  done,  that  it  may  enjoy  rest  as  well  as  other  portions 
of  the  body.  The  work  of  digestion  should  not  be  carried  on 
through  any  period  of  the  sleeping  hours.  If  you  feel  that  you 
must  eat  at  night,  take  a  drink  of  cold  water  and  in  the  morn- 
ing you  will  feel  much  better  for  not  having  eaten." 

"It  is  not  well  to  eat  fruit  and  vegetables  at  the  same  meal. 
If  the  digestion  is  feeble,  the  use  of  both  will  often  cause  dis- 
tress, and  inability  to  put  forth  mental  effort.  It  is  better  to 
have  the  fruit  at  one  meal  and  the  vegetables  at  another." 

As  a  rule,  it  is  better  to  serve  fruits  at  the  close  of  a  meal. 

"In  order  to  have  healthy  digestion,  food  should  be  eaten 

slowly If  your  time  to  eat  is  limited,  do  not  bolt  your 

food,  but  eat  less  and  eat  slowly." 

(493) 


owGooi^le 


494  THE    LAUREL 

Masticate  food  to  creaminess.  "Enjoy  to  the  full  every 
mouthful  of  food  as  long  as  any  taste  remains  in  it." — C.  C.  H. 

"Custom  has  decided  that  the  food  shall  be  placed  upon  the 
table  in  courses  Not  knowing  what  is  coming  next,  one  may 
eat  a,  sufficiency  of  food  which  perhaps  is  not  the  best  suited  to 
him.  When  the  last  course  is  brought  on  he  often  ventures  to 
overstep  the  bounds  and  take  the  tempting  dessert,  which,  how- 
ever, proves  anything  but  good  for  him.  If  all  the  food  intended 
or  a  meal  is  placed  on  the  table  at  the  beginning,  one  has  oppor- 
tunity to  make  the  best  choice," 

For  some  time  I  have  practised  either  putting  the  food  all  on 
the  table  or  having  what  was  not  on  the  table  in  sight  on  the 
sideboard,  or  letting  guests  know  in  some  way  the  full  menu,  as 
I  have  always  felt  that  while  teaching  temperance,  we  were 
encouraging  intemperance  by  the  customary  manner  of  serving. 

When  working  hard,  eat  light;  do  not  overwork  the  whole 
body  at  the  same  time. 

Perfect  rest  without  sleep  for  15-30  m.  after  meals  is  a  great 
aid  to  digestion. 

"We  should  i)ot  provide  for  the  Sabbath  a  more  liberal  sup- 
ply or  a  greater  variety  of  food  than  for  other  days.  Instead  of 
this,  the  food  should  be  more  simple  and  less  should  be  eaten  in 
in  order  that  the  niind  may  be  clear  and  vigorousto  comprehend 
spiritual  things.  Overeating  befogs  the  brain.  The  most  pre- 
cious words  may  be  heard  and  not  appreciated  because  the  mind 
is  confused  by  an  improper  diet." 

"Do  not  have  too  great  a  variety  at  a  meal;  three  or  four 
dishes  are  a  plenty.  At  the  next  meal  you  can  have  a  change. 
The  cook  should  tax  her  inventive  powers  to  vary  the  dishes 
she  prepares  for  the  table,  and  the  stomach  should  not  be  obliged 
to  take  the  same  kinds  of  food  meal  after  meal." 

Three  or  four  dishes,  each  perfect  of  its  kind,  are  more  satis- 

U.q,t,zc,b,CjOO»^IC 


MEALS    AND    MENUS  495 

tying  than  a  great  number,  not  one  of  which   is  perfectly  pre- 
pared and  served. 

MENUS 

The  suggestive  menus  given  will  admit  of  variation  according 
to  the  season  and  circumstances. 

Nut,  olive  or  cooking  oil  with  salt;  nut  butter  of  any  kind;  or 
cream,  may  be  used  instead  of  dairy  butter. 

Macaroni  baked  in  cream  sauce  left  from  dinner  may  be  heated 
and  served  for  the  next  morning's  breakfast  with  the  addition 
of  tomato  or  more  mitk. 

Where  the  two  pies  are  served  for  dessert,  two  small  pieces 
should  be  served  on  one  plate.  They  introduce  to  the  guests 
two  kinds  of  crust  without  lard,  and  mince  pie  without  meat. 

When  a  hearty  soup  or  dessert  are  on  the  menu  the  other 
dishes  of  the  meal  may  be  lighter. 

Dainty  dishes  and  spotless  linen,  will  have  much  to  do  in  fit- 
ting for  that  city  which  has  foundations  of  precious  stones  and 
the  paving  of  whose  streets  is  gold. 


BBEAKFAST 
First  Day 

Baked  Macaroni  in  Cream  or  Tomato  Saucf 

Bread  and  Butter  or  Cream 

Whole  Wheat  Wafers  .Apples  and  Oranges 

Seooud  Day 

Corn  Omt-lc-t 

Whole  Wheat  Gems  Apple  Sauce 

Graham  Sticks 

Third  Day 

Rye  Meal  Porridge— Nut  or  Dairy  Cream 

Beaten  _Biscu it  .         Fresh  or  Canned  Blueberries, 

Molasses  Cookies 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


496  THE    LAUREL 

Fourth  Oa,j 

Soft  Poached  Eggs  on  Broiled  Trumese 

or 

Cutlets  of  Roast  with  Brown  Gravy 

Parker  House  Rolls  Cranberry  Sauce  Crisps 

ruth  Day 

Cutlets  of  Com  Meal  Porridge  or 

Rhode  Island  Johnny  Cakes  with  Gravy  No.  44  or  50 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Bread  and  Butter  or  Cream 

Graham  Slicks  Bananas 

(Cutlets  plain  at  first  and  with  maple  syrup  at  last  of  meal) 

Sixth  Day 

Trumese  Hash  Swedish  Milk  Biscuit 

Baked  Doughnuts        Cereal  Coffee 

(Cream  Toast  may  be  added) 

Seventh  Day 

Nut  Rolls 

Canned  Peaches  or  Baked  Sweet  Apples 

with  or  without  Almond  or  Dairy  Cream 

Apples  or  Bananas  Fruit  Bars  or  Wafers 

(Granella  with  cream  or  hot  milk  may  be  added) 

DIITNEB 

First  Day 

Mashed  Lentils — Cream  Sauce  Baked  Potatoes 

Boiled  or  Stewed  Cabbage — salt  and  oil 

Bread  and  Nut  or  Dairy  Butter 

Corn  Pone  or  Water  Corn  Bread 

Squash  or  Pumpkin  Pie 

SeooDd  Day 

Vegetable  Consomme — Soup  Balls 

Peanut  Pie        Stewed  Corn 

Celery  or  Lettuce  Mayonnaise        Bread  and  Butter  or  Oil 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


MEALS   AND   MENUS  4 

Graham  Sticks 
Tapioca  Jelly  or  Apple  Tapioca  Pudding 

Third  Day 

Succotash  Rice — Lentil  Gravy 

Leavened  and  Unleavened  Breads 

Steamed   Apple  Dumplings — Creamy  Sauce 

Fourth  Day 

Mother's  Soup — Cream  Noodles 

Trumese  in  Tomato        Celery,  Radishes  or  Green  Onions 

Squash  Cutlets  or  Mashed  Winter  Squash 

Apple  and  Banana  Salad — Cream  Dressing 

ruth  Day 

Baked  Beans  and  Brown  Bread     Scalloped  Potatoes 

Pumpkin  or  Water  Custard  Pie 

Nuts  and  Raisins 

Sixth  Day 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup — Pop  Corn        Celery 

Gems  and  Oil,  Cream  or  Butter 

Quaker  Pudding — Molasses.  Maple  or  other  Sauce 

Serenth  Day 

Baked  Macaroni — Cream  Sauce 
Green  or  Canned  Peas  Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Lettuce — Mayonnaise  or  Lemonade  Dressing 

Fruit  Bread  or  Buns  Beaten  Biscuit 

Cream  Pie  or  Gelatine  Blanc  Mange 


SUFFEB 
nnmber  One 

Stewed  Fresh  Tomatoes 

Bread  and  Butter  White  Crackers 

Fruit  and  Nut  Relish 


.b,Goo<^lc 


498  THE    LAUREL 

Number  Two 

Bread  and  Milk — Baked  Sweet  Apples  or 

Blueberries  or  Black  Raspberries 

Niunber  Three 
Nuts  Crackers 

Apples  or  Other  Fruit 

Number  Four 

Rhode  Island  johnny  Cakes — Honey 

Cocoanut  Crisps  Tea-Hygiene 

Number  Fire 
/^  Rice  Cakes  or  Milk  Toast 

Slice(j  or  Stewed  Peaches  Old  Friend  Sponge  Caki7~" 

Number  Six 

Baked  Apples,  Pears  and  Grapes,  or  Apples,  Grapes  and  Figs, 

or  Sour  Apples  and  Sweet  Apples 

Number  Seven 
Rusk  or  Granella  and  Milk 

Number  Eight 

Acushnet  Hash 

Water  Corn  Bread  Whole  Wheat  Wafers 

Cereal  Coffee 

Number  Nine 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — Soup  Crackers 

Bread  and  Butter  Apple  Sauce 

Number  Tea 

Cream  of  Corn  Toast 

Rolls  Honey 

UISDAY  LUNCHEON 

Number  One 

Tomato  Shortcake        Crackers  Pine  Nut  Cheese 

Lemon  Egg  Cream 


.b,CjOO»^IC 


MEALS  AND  MENUS  49( 

number  Two 

Hot  Egg  Sandwich 

Lettuce — French  or  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Ntunber  Tliree 
Timbales  of  Corn      Whole  Wheat  Popovers      Graham  Crisps 

Cantaloupe 

Number  Four 
Consomme — Sticks         Celery  Sandwiches         Washington  Pie 

Number  Five 

Bread  Omelet  with  Molasses  Sauce 

Graham  Wafers  Tea-Hygiene 

Number  Six 

Sunflower  Mayonnaise  Sticks 

Bread  and  Butter 

Apples,  Peaches  or  Pears,  or  Canned  Peaches  or  Pears 

Number  Seven 

Apple  Salad — Almond  or  Cream  Dressing 

Whole  Wheat  Sticks     (shortened) 

Bread  and  Butter  Rich  Small  Cakes 


PUBLIC  OB  ENTEBTAINHENT  DINNERS 

Number  One 

Nut  Bouillon     Royal  Paste         Croutons 

Ripe  Olives 

Triimese  Pie  Celery  in  Tomato 

Graham  Crisps 

Apple  and  Pineapple  Salad     Cream  Dressing 

White  Sticks 

White  Fruit  Cake     (no  icing,  almonds  on  top) 

Cereal  Coffee 


.b,Goo<^lc 


500  THE   LAUREL 

Number  Two 

Milk  Stew  of  Oyster  Plant 

Soup  Crackers     Celery 

Timbale  of  Trumese^Boundary  Castle  (fresh  mushroom)  Sauce 

Cauliflower — Sauce  Americaine         Beaten  Biscuit 

Mint  Grape  Fruit  Salad  or  Orange  Mint  Salad 

White  Sticks 
Ice  Cream  (unflavored)         Cocoanut  Jumbles 

Ntunber  Three 

Oyster  Plant  or  Asparagus  a  la   Crime 

Rolled  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Blanched  Almonds,  dried 

Trumese  and  Celery  Salad  on 

Swedish  Milk  Biscuit  with  lettuce  leaf 

Whole  Wheat  Gems— Butter 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie — Granella  Crust 

Mince  Pie— Pastry  Crust 

Ntimber  Four 

Nut  Chowder— Sticks 

Helianthus  (Sunflower)  Mayonnaise 

Cucumber  or  Celery  or  Onion  Sandwiches 

Pineapple  Gelatine— Whipped  Cream 

Cocoanut  Crisps 

Confection  Potatoes  Mixed  Nuts 

Number  Five 

Cream  of  Tomato  or  Spinach  Broth     Soup  Sticks 

Trumese  and  Mushrooms  a  la  Creme     Wafers 

Scalloped  Oyster  Plant  Celery 

English  Bread  and  Butter 

Currant  and  Red  Raspberry  Salad 

Almonds  or  Walnuts 

Rice  Charlotte— Whipped  Cream  Roses 

Small  Cakes         Cereal  Coffee 


.b,Goo<^lc 


MEALS  AND  MENUS 

Number  Six 

Cream  of  Fresh  Mushroom  Soup 

Finger  Rolls  (of  roll  or  universal  dough) 

Claudia's  Stuffed  Egg  Plant 

Whole  Wheat  Popovers 

Nut  Croquettes 

Baked  Creamed  Tomato  Crisp  Bread 

Grape  Fruit  and  Celery  Salad         (in  grape  fruit  cups) 

Crackers  with  Nuts 

Rose  Ice  Cream  Hard  Sponge  Cakes 

Celery  Tea — Cream 


BIUPI.E  COlfFANT  LUNCHEONS 

Number  One 

Steamed  Trumese  Biscuit  (p.  137) — Boundary  Castle  Sauce 

Jelly  Sandwiches  Celery 

Pineapple  Sponge — Whipped  Cream 

Cream  Crisps 

Number  Two 

Creamed  Mushrooms  (or  oyster  plant)  in  Ramekins  or 

Cream  Puff  cases  Sticks 

Orange  and  Celery  Salad  Wafers 

Cereal  Coffee  Nut  Crisps 


EVENINa  LUNCHEONS 

Number  One 

Sweet  Fruit  Sandwiches 

Cereal  Coffee 

Number  Two 

Grapes  Pears 

Orange,  or  Mint  Orange  Nectar 


.b,Goo<^lc 


THE   LAUREL 

Number  Three 
Vanilla  or  Lemon  Egg  Cream 

Nut  and  Citron  Cake 
Raspberry  Lemonade  (later) 

Nomber  Four 

Ice  Cream  Crackers  with  Nuts 

Sweetmeats  or  Caramels 

Orangeade  (later) 

Number  Five 

Grape  Sherbet  Nut  Crisps 

Royal  Sponge  Cake  (with  Royal  filling  and  icing) 


NON-8TABCH  MEALS 

Number  Oue 

Breakfast 

lain  Omelet  Apples  Pears  Gi 

Diuuer 

Nut  and  Tomato  Bisque 

String  Beans 

Lettuce---French  or  Lemonade  Dressing 

Blanched  Almonds  Honey 

Supper 

ked  Apples  Mellow  Ripe  Bananas 

Number  Two 

Breakfast 

Broiled  Trumese  Apples  in  Oil 

Apples     Grapes 

Dinner 

Cottage  Cheese— -Chili  Sauce  or  Mayonnaise 

Beet  Greens  Green  Peas 

Baked  Custard 

Supper 

Plums  Pears  Raisins 


.b,Goo<^lc 


MEALS    AND    MENUS 

Number  Three 

Breakfast 

Scrambled  Eggs  Ripe  Currants  Canteloupe 

Dinner 

Baked  Peanuts  Pickled  Carrots 

Stewed  Oyster  Plant 

Bananas 

Sapper 
Apples     Grapes  or  Tart  Lemonade 

Number  Four 


Dried  Blanched  Almonds  Apples  Steamed  Prunes 

Dinner 

Spinach  with  Egg — Mayonnaise  Dressing 

My  Mother's  Cabbage 

Nesselrode  Confection  or  Sweetmeats,  p.  489 

Supper 

Cereal  Coffee — Cream 

Brazil  Nuts  Figs  or  Dates 

Number  Five 
Breakfast 

Almond  Puree  Peaches  Bananas 

Dinner 

Trumese  and  Celery  Salad 

Stewed  Okra  Boiled  Onions 

Fruit  Gelatine 


Figs  and  Milk 


Number  Six 


Breakfast 
Strawberries  Bananas 


.b,Goo<^lc 


S04  THE    LAUREL 

Dinner 

Triimese  or  Nutmese  and  Onion  Sandwiches 

Celery  in  Tomato 

Stewed  Asparagus 

Steamed  Figs  Pecans 

Supper 

Strawberries 

Oranges 

These  meals  may  be  easily  changed  to  sugarless  as  well  as 
starchless  by  substituting  vegetables  that  contain  no  sugar  for 
those  that  have  some,  and  tart  fruits  for  sweet  ones. 

The  custard  may  be  made  without  sugar.  Gluten  biscuit  used 
as  meat  with  fruit  and  vegetables  give  more  of  a  variety,  when 
obtainable. 

One  may  take  large  quantities  of  fruit  in  place  of  starchy  foods, 
since  they  are  not  so  concentrated. 

PICNIC  AND  TBAVELUNQ  LITNCHEB 

Collect  boxes  of  different  sizes  as  you  have  opportunity. 

Save  waxed  paper  from  cracker  boxes  and  other  sources  and 
have  a  certain  place  for  it  so  as  to  know  just  where  to  find  it. 
Quite  a  lai^e  roll  can  be  bought  in  the  stationery  stores  for  five 
cents. 

Keep  small  tin  boxes  for  packing  strong  flavored  sandwiches, 
and  vaseline  bottles  and  cold  cream  jars  for  salad  dressings,  or  for 
sandwich  fillings  which  must  be  spread  upon  the  bread  the  last 
thing. 

For  a  picnic  or  a  long  journey,  be  sure  to  take  everything  that 
may  be  needed,  corkscrew,  can  opener,  nut  picks,  paring  knives, 
spoons,  a  case  knife,  a  knife  large  enough  and  sharp  enough  to 
cut  bread,  cups  for  drinking,  and  a  small  saucepan  or  large  cup 
for  heating  drinks  or  anything  necessary.  As  far  as  possible, 
carry  dishes  that  may  be  thrown  away,  as  wood  or  paper  plates 
and  cups.     A  spirit  lamp  is  very  desirable. 


t,zcob,GoOi^lc 


PICNIC  AND  TRAVELLING  LUNCHES  JOJ 

Rich  cakes,  jellies  and  all  sweets  are  especially  objectionable 
for  travelling.    - 

Be  sure  to  take  plenty  of  lemons  and  other  fruits,  as  the  trains 
will  not  often  stop  long  enough  for  one  to  buy  them  at  the  sta- 
tions, and  they  may  not  be  at  the  proper  stage  of  ripeness  and 
the  price  will  be  high. 

Carry  salt  in  a  vaseline  bottle,  or  if  in  a  salt  shake,  screw  a 
piece  of  thick  paper  under  the  top  and  wrap  well.  Have  sugar 
in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  or  jar,  also  ripe  olives.  Rice  or  cus- 
tard puddings  can  be  carried  in  cups. 

Bottled  fruit  juices  are  invaluable.  Lemon  juice  sufficient 
for  one  day  may  be  bottled. 

A  jar  of  cold  cereal  coffee  or  of  tea-h}^iene  with  cream  would 
be  highly  prized  by  many. 

Trumese  in  Tomato  or  Sauce  Imperial,  well  dried  in  the  oven, 
is  excellent.     Fruit  buns  retain  their  moisture  nicely. 

Wrap  sandwiches,  buns,  cakes,  eggs  and  nut  foods  in  waxed 
paper,  and  if  there  are  different  kindsof  sandwiches  mark  them. 

For  a  simple  luncheon  without  a  knife  or  spoon,  pare  oranges 
and  break  them  into  sections,  and  pare,  quarter  and  core  apples, 
and  wrap  all  in  waxed  paper.  These  fruits  with  a  trumese  and 
egg  sandwich  (p.  472)  make  an  ideal  midday  luncheon  when 
spending  the  day  in  the  city  on  business. 

One  lady  who  has  travelled  a  great  deal  tells  me  that  she  has 
found  a  small  white  apron  with  a  pocket  a  great  convenience  in 
serving  and  eating  lunches  on  trains,  and  a  gentleman  su^ests 
that  a  short  apron  with  a  bib  and  strap  and  a  pocket  for  the 
napkin  would  be  a  great  convenience  for  those  of  his  sex. 

Some  of  the  strong  pasteboard  boxes  that  package  foods  come 
in,  make  good  lunch  boxes.  We  have  one  about  22  in.  long, 
9  in.  wide  and  6  in.  deep  that  we  can  carry  in  a  shawl  strap, 
which  we  prize. 

The  dining  car  has  no  at  tractions  campared  with  the  comforts 
of  a  nice  home  luncheon  for  travelling. 


t,zcob,GoOi^lc 


BreadSf  Learened,  424 
Beadles  443 
Bisiiuit,  Breakfast.  4.42 

Potato,  44.1 

Raised,  441 

Split,  441 
Boston  Brown,  434 
Buns,  Currant,  443 

Lemon,  '443 

Nut,  443 

Plain,  442 
Cakes,  Buckwheat, 

Bread  Crumbs,  4 
Old  Time,  444 

Crumb,  444 
Corn  Cake,  435 
Corn  Meal,  Scalded,  434 
Crackers,  Soup.  438  ■ 
Crisp,  433    , 
Crust,  Sour'Cream,  437 

Universal,  437 
Pelicious,  433 
Flour,  426 
'  Fruit,  431 
Graham,  431 
Irish,  431      ■' 
New  York"Home  Made," 
Nut,  431  [432 

Oatmeal,  432 
Potato  Ball.  433 
.      Rice.  432, 
Rolls,  438 

Buttermilk,  440 

Crumb,  440 

Of  Browp  Bread.  4, 

Rolled.  441 

Swiss,  440 
Rusk,  442 

Browned,  442 
Rye,  432 

Salt  Rising,  43^,  436 
Sally  Lunn,  438 
Sticks,  443 


White.  430 

Wholewheat.  431 

Yeast,  424 

Bread,  Suggestions. 
Dry, 426  [427 

Potato,  Grated,  425 
Mashed,  425 

Zwieback,  432 

Breads,  Unleavened,  without 
chemicals,  445 
Bannock,  451 
Bars,  Fruit,  462 
Biscuit,  Beaten,  460 

Maryland.  460 
Marvland.  Unbeaten. 
Swedish  Milk,  461     [461 
.    Brown,  Crumb.  451 
The  Laurel  ,450 
"        Cake,  Ash,  453 
'■:■,  Hoe.  453      ,  ■;.  . 

Johnny,  451 
Oat,  452 
Rice,  450 
Cakes,  Batter,  Green  Com 
Griddle.  455  [457 

^   Buckwheat,  455 
Corn  Meal,  no  flour. 

[457 

Corn  and  Crumb,  456 
Crumb.  455 

No  Ffour,  456 


Mushroom,.  4(;5 
I>Iut  Butter,  457 


Plai 


.  455 


{506) 


vith  Rous.  456 
'  ■  •    '■   Variatioas:..456 
.  .  Rice»455        i  ^  . 

No  FlouTv  456 
Savory  W^i,  455  ''' 
■■  Nut  and  Egg,  457 
Oat,  463 


.b,Gooi^lc 


Breads,  Rhode  Island  Johnny, 
452 
Southern  Johnny,  451 
Corn,  450 

Water,  451 
Crackers,  Graham,  Sweet, 
with  Nuts,  462       [462 
Sour  Cream,  462 
White,  461 
Crisps,  Cocoanut,  464 
Cream,  463 
Graham,  463 
Nut,  463 
Crumbs  and  Corn,  450 
Crusts,  Corn  Meal,  452 

White,  452 
Dodgers, Corn  Meal  Por- 
ridge, 454 
Sister  Welch's,  454 

Granular  Meal,  454 
Dough,  457 
Gems,  446 

Corn  and  Graham,  44$ 

Meal  and  White  Flour. 
Cream  Corn ,  448     [448 
Crumb,  448 
Fruit  and  Nut.  447 
Graham,  447 
Rye,  448 

and  Wheat,  448 
Sally  Lunn,  447 
White,  447 
Whole  Wheat.  447 
Pone  or  Corn  Bread 

"Straight,"  453 
Popov  ers,  448 
Corn.  449 

Other  Variations,  449 
Whole  Wheat,  449 
Potato,  Sweet,  449 
Rolls,  Cream,  458 
Fruit,  459 

and  Nut,  459 
Graham,  Plain,  458 


Breads.  Nut,  458 

Shortened,  459 
Sticks,  459 

Porridge,  460 

White,  459 
Straws.  Nut,  464 
Unleavened,  for  Commun- 
ion, 464 
Wafers,  Cocoanut,  461 
Fruit,  463 
Nut,  463 
Cakes,  670 

Additions  to  Cookies  and 

Small  Cakes,  387 
Angel.  385    , 
Anise  Wafers,  389 
Citron  and  Cocoanut,  380 
Cocoanut  Loaf  or  Layer, 
Corn  Starch,  375  [374 

Cookies,  Cream.  388 

Molasses,  3^ 

Sour  Cream,  389 
Cream  Puffs,  j86 
Crullers,  393 
Doughnuts,  Risen,  392 
Baked,  391 
Dried  Apple,.  380 
Elizabeth's, Raised.  381 
Fried,  393, 
Fruit  and  Nut,  375 
Fr^it.  White.  3S9 
German  Almond  Loaf,  382 

Coffee,  383 

Light,  377 
Julia's  Birthday,  374 
Jumbles,  Yolk,  388 
Lunch.  389 
Maple  Loaf,  382 
Molasses,  378 

Bread  or  Hard  Mo- 
lasses Cake,  378 

No  eggs,  390 

Raised.,  383    , 

Sugar,,  378 


o,Goo<^lc 


So8 

Cakes,  Nut.  391 

Nut  and  Citron,  373 

Patty,  374 

Pie,  Washington,  381 

Plain  Loaf,  378 

Rice  Flour.  375 

Rich  Loaf,  374 

Saffron,  379 

Scotch  Short  Bread,  377 

Silver,  377 

Snaps,  Molasses,  390 

Sponge,  Cocoanut,  384 

Layer,  3 84 

Old  Friend,  384 

Rice  Flour,  385 

Royal,  383 

Variations  of  383 
Suggestions,  370 
Suggestive  Combinations, 
[387 
Tri-Colored  Layer,  385 
Wafers,  Honey,  389 

Nut,  391 
Washington,  381 
Without  Chemicals,  382 
Yeast,  379 
Cakes,  loinga  and  Fillings  for, 
Apple,  Creamed,  398     [393 
Cream,  Cocoanut,  397 

Whipped,  397 
Filling,  Butternut,  397 

Cocoanut,  398 

Cream,  400 

Date,  398 

Fig  Jelly,  399 

Imperial,  399 

Lemon  Cheese,  401 

For  Lemon  Pie  Cake  and 
Washington  Pie,  400 

Marshmallow,  401 

Nut  and  Raisin,  399 

Pineapple,  399 

Prune,  399 

Royal,  400 

Sour  Cream,  398 


THE   LAUREL 


Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings  for. 
Frosting,  Butter,  395 
Icing,  Boiled,  396 

Maple,  397 
Milk.  396 
Caramel,  397 
Coffee,  399 
Cream,  394 
Fruit  Juice,  394 
Golden,  395 
Jelly,  395 
Pineapple,  399 
Royal,  400 
Water,  394 
White  of  Egg,  395 
With  Lemon  Juice 

[395 
Cereals,  409 

Corn,  Pop,  411 

Sweet,  Parched.  410 

To  Hull,  417 
Granella, No.  i,  2,  3,  4, 

To  Serve,  417        [418 
Hominy,  Baked,  417 
Porridges,  412 
Proportion  of  Water  and 

Length  of  Time  for 

Cooking,  413 
Rice,  414 

Baked,  416 

To  Boil,  415 

Chinese  Way,  415 

Indian  Way,  416 

Parched,  416 

To  Steam,  416 
Rusk,  412 
Yolk— Egg,  411 
Chestnats,  371 

To  Blanch,  271 

Boiled,  271 

Puree,  371 

Puree  with  Whipped  Cream, 

Roasted,  271  [272 

Salad,  Chestnut  and 

Banana,  372 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


Chestnuts,  to  Shell,  271 
Vanilla  or  Raisin.  272 
Confeotlons,  48B 

Candy,  Cocoaniit,  4.90 

Hoarhound,  492 

Maple  Cream,  492 

Molasses,  491 

Puffs,  490 
Cream,  Confection,  490 
Creams,  Nut,  490 
Dates,  Cream  Stuffed,  488 

Stuffed.  488 
Figs,  Stuffed,  488 
Kisses,  489 
Lozenges.  492 
Marshmaltows,  490 
Penosia,  492 

Potatoes,  Confection,  +90 
Prunes,  Stuffed.  489 
Sweetmeat,  Fruits,  480 
Sweetmeats,  Fruits  and 
Nuts,  489 
Taffy,  Everton,  491 

Lemon,  491 
Drinks,  479 

Coffees,  Cereal,  483 

Cold,  485 

Cream  for,  485 
Cereal,  to  make,  484 
Eggnog,  485 

Hot,  485 
Juice,  Cranberry,  483 
Juices,  Fruit,  to  Prepare, 
Lemonades,  482  [483 

Egg,  482 

Milk  and  Egg,  482 

Mint,  482 

White  of  Egg,  482 
Nectar.  Banana  Lemon,  481 

Mint  Orange,  482 

Orange,  482 
Banana,  4S2 
Nectars,  Fruit,  481 
Orangeade,  Egg,  48a 


Tea,  Bran,  485 

Hygiene,  484 
Water,  Distilled.  480 
Hard,  481 
Mineral,  480 
Entries  and  BreaUast,  Lunch- 
eon and  Sapper  Diahea,  108 
a  la  creme.  Asparagus  Tips, 

[116 
Beans,  Young  Lima,  116 
Celery  and  Mushrooms,  115 
Macaroni  and  Mush- 


rooms, 1 16 
Cakes,  Corn,  114 

Oyster  Plant  Griddle,  114 

Spanish,  136 
Croquettes,  109 

Bread,  iii 

Celery,  no 

Corn,  no 

Rice,  no 
and  Fig,  1 1 1 

Sauce,  109 
Custards,  Celery,  115 

Corn,   1 14 

Onion,  ns 
Cutlets  of  Corn  Meal 

Porridge,  nj 

Cucumber,    113 

Rice,    ,,3 

Squashi  112 

Vegetable,  112 
Hash,  Acushnet,  132 

Cabbage  and  Potato,  133 

With  Poached  Egg,  133 

Savory,  133 
Hashes,  Vegetable,  132 
Miscellaneous 

Apples  in  Oil,  138 
Onion,  138 

Asparagus  en  Croustade, 
[n2 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


.Sro                                                         THE    LAUREL 

Entrees,  Miscellaneous 

Pudding,  Squash,  117 

Baked  Creamed  Toma- 

Sweet Potato,  117 

toes,  122 

Scallop  of  Egg  Plant, 

Potatoes  and  Milk.  138 

Armenian,    119 

Peeled  Tomatoes,  130 

Of  Oyster  Plant,  121 

-f ,      Sliced  Tomatoes,  130 

Oyster  Plant,  121 

I.       .     Squash  with  Celery 

Scalloped  Asparagus,  118 

Stuffing,  127 

Cabbage,  118 

:  Biscuit,  Mamie's  Sur- 

Celery and  Tomato,  122 

prise,  136 

Egg  Plant.  118 

Bread  and  Milk  with 

Onions,  119 

Sweet  Fruits,  138 

Oyster  Plant,  120 

-•..      Broiled  or  Baked  Toma- 

Cooked Potatoes,  120 

toes,  130 

Potatoes,  raw  nut  butter 

.Creamed  Sweet  Potatoes, 

and   onions,  119 

Corn  Oviters,  114          [122 

Raw  Potatoes.  119 

-Dried  and  Hulled  Corn,  13a 

Squash,  120 

Fruit  and  Nut  Toma- 

Sweet Potatoes,  lao 

toes,  129 

Tomatoes,  122 

Macaroni  with  Onion  or 

-     Onion  Flavor,    121 

Celery  and  Tomato,  131 

With  Rice  and  Onion,  122 

Mashed  Potato  Loaf,  123 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant.  Claudia's, 

Oyster  Plant  en  Crous- 

Potatoes,  128                  [138 

Patlies.  Ill        [tade.  112 

Potatoes.  Meringued,  128 

and  Potato  Omelet,  138 

Squash.  Winter,  126 

Parsnip  and  Potato  Stew, 

Tomatoes,  128 

Pilau,  stewed  rice,  131    [131 

Fillings  for,   129 

Rice  Border,  137 

Tomatoes,  Green,    130 

Souffles.  Individual  Daisy. 

Timbale  of  Carrot,  123 

Spinach,  122             [123 

Corn  and  Egg,  124 

Succotash,  131 

Of  Corn,  Individual.    124 

Tomato  Short  Cake,  131 

Toasts.  133 

Yorkshire  Pudding,  137 

Blueberry,  134 

Pie.  Carrot.  126 

Cream,  135 

Mushroom  and  Celery, 

Creamed.  135 

Oyster  Plant,  125   [(25 

Cream  of  Corn.  135 

Oyster  Plant  Pastry,  125 

French.  136 

Potato,  126 

German.  136 

Vfuetable,  124 

Lentil  and  Other  Legume, 

Pudding,  Carrot,  118 

Milk,  Old-Fashioned,      [135 

Corn,  Green,   116 

Prune.  134                 [i35 

Corn,  no  e^KS,  117 

Royal.    135 

Corn,  no  milk.  1 16 

Sister  BettvSaxby's.  134 

Oyster  Plant,  117 

Zwieback,  133 

■  b.CjOOi^lc 


Sl:l 


Fruits,  34 

Cooked,  4.7 

Apple  Sauce,  47 

Strained,  47 

Baked,  47 
Apples,  Quarters  of. 

Baked,  48        [Baked,  47 

Lemon,  Orange  and 

Others,  48 

Sweet,  Baked,  48 

Mother  Cranson's 

Stewed,  Sweet,  48 
Bananas,  Stewed,  49 

in  Butter,  49 

and  Raisins,  49 

Baked,  49 
Crumbed,  49 
With  Tomatoes,  49 
Cranberries,  49 

Stewed,  50 

Baked,  50 

With  Raisins,  50 
Peaches,  Baked,  50 
Quinces,  Baked,  50 

Plain  Baked,  50 
Rhubarb,  50 

Stewed,  51 

Baked,  51 
Dried 
Apricots,  Stewed,  52 
Butter,  52 
Figs,  Steamed,  52 

Stewed,  52 
Prune  Marmalade,  52 
Prunes,  Steamed,  52 

Sweet  California,  52 
Stewed,  51 
Fresh,  34 
Apples,  36 
Bananas,  37 
Blackberries,  37 
Canteloupe,  37 
Currants,  38 
Currants,  Frosted,  38 


Dates  and  Cream,  38.    , 
Dates  or  Figs  and  Milk,    38 
Dates  and  Nuts,  38 
Figs,  38 
Gooseberries,  39 
Grape  Fruit,  39 

AmbTosia,  40 

With  Malaga  Grapes,  40 
Grapes,  49 

To  Pack,  39 . 
Olives,  40 
Oranges,  41 
Peaches,  42 
Peaches  and  Cream,  43 
Peach  Snow,  43 
Pineapples,  43 

Grape  Fruit,  44 

and  Orange  Ambrosia,  45 

Shredded,  44 

and  Strawberry  Am- 
brosia, 45 

and  Whipped  Cream,  44 
Raisins.  45 
Raspberries,  Black,  45 

Red,  45 
Strawberries,  45 

Orange,  46 
Watermelon,  46 
Whortleberries,  46 
Jam,  Gooseberry,  67 

Raspberry  and  Currant,  66 
Rhubarb,  Mrs.  Chandler's, 
Rhubarb  and  Pine-  [67 

Strawberry,  66      [apple,  76 
Jellies,  62 
Apple,  64 

and  Cranberry,  64 

Parings  and  Cores,  64 
Blueberry,  66 
Cranberry,  65 

Pulp,  66 

Sauce,  66 
Currant.  63 

Black,  64 


.b,Goo<^lc 


THE   LAUREL 


Currant  and  Raspberry,  64 
Elder-berry  and  Apple,  65 
Gooseberry,  Green,  65 
Grape,  56 
Quince,  65 

Tumblers,  to  Make,  63 
Miscellaneous 

Butter,  Elder-berry  and 

Apple,  67 

Melrose  Apple,  67 
Grape  Marmalade,  68 
Lemon  Peaches,  68 
Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles,  68 
To  Dry  Blueberries,  68 
To  Can.  53 
Apples,  61 

Baked,  61 

Sweet,  and  Cranberries, 

Quinces,  56     [5? 
Barberries.  59 
Berries.  Solid,  55 
Citron,  58 

Combinations  of  Fruits,  61 
Cranberries  and  Sweet 

Apples,  57 
Grapes,  Concord,  59 

Juice.  60 
Juices,  Fruit,  60 

Condensed,  61 

To  Bottle,  61 
Peaches,  55 
Pears,  56 
Pineapple,  58 
Plums,  56 

Quinces  and  Sweet  Apples, 
Rhubarb.  Cooked,  58      [56 

Without  Cooking,  58 
Strawberries,  Red  Rasp- 
berries and  all  delicate 

berries,  57 
Tomatoes,  59 

for  Soups  and  Sauces,  60 

Whole,  60 
Watermelon  Rind,  58 


a«latine.  Vegetable,  835 

Agar  Agar,  Medical  Use  of, 

[3+6 
Aspic  for  Garnishing,  345 
Light,  344 
Tomato,  344 
Bavarian,  Coffee,  342 
and  Blanc  Mange  or  Jellied 
Custard,  342 
Beets  in  Jelly,  337 
Blanc  Mange,  341 

Cocoanut,  341 
Bouillon  for  Jelly,  345 
Broth,  Dark.  Jellied,  346 
Cafe  ail  Lait,  Jellied,  342 
Charlotte,  Rice,  341 
Cream,  Maple.  342 

Orange.  339 
Custard,  Jellied,  342 

With  Meringue,  343 
Directions,  335 
Jelly,  Cream  of  Tomato 

and  Carrot,  343 
Fruit,  336 
and  Mint,  337 
Jellied  Cream  Trumese,  346 
Jelly,  Lemon,  Delicate,  337 
Orange,  338 
Or  Lemon  with  Strawber- 
ries, 338 
In  Orange  Cups,  338 
Red,  with  Fruit,  338 
Tomato,  344 
Whipped  Cream,  342 
Lemon  Snow,  340 
Molds,  Apple  Sauce,  339 

Prune  Cream,  340 
Orange  Garnish  for  Salad 
or  Cold  Entree,  339 
Pudding,  Marsh  ma  I  low,  343 

Sponge,  340 
Salad.  Wedding  Breakfast, 

[338 
Secrets  of  Success,  335 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


Sponge,  Pineapple,  340 
Stock  for  Jelly.  Dark,  345 
Light,  345 
Of  Tnimese,  346 
Geoeral,  9 

Cooking  Utensils,  Their 

Uses  and  Care,  9 
Colorings,  32 

Carmine,  Pokeberry,  32 

Green,  32 

Red,  32 

Yellow,  32 
Economy,  15 
Flavorings,  24 

Brown  Onion,  27 

Salad,  38 

For  Sweets,  27 
Garnishing,  29 

Arrangement  and  Garnish- 
ing of  Salads,  33 

Egg  Daisies,  31 

Oxeye  Daisies,  31 

Pastry  Bag,  32 

Potato  Balls,  31 

Radish  Lilies.  30 
loe  Cream  and  Fruit  loes,  402 
Frappes,  408 
Frozen  Peaches,  408 

Pineapple,  407 

Strawberries,  408 
Ice,  Currant  and  Raspberry, 

Lemon,  405  [406 

Mint,  406 

Orange,  406 

Raspberry,  406 
Ice  Cream,  The  Laurel,  404 

Maple,  404 
Sherbet,  Grape,  406 

Lemon,  407 

Mint,  407 

Orange,  407 

Pineapple,  407 
Invalid  Foods,  466 

Broth,  Parched  Corn,  487 
Egg,  White  of,  487 


cx  513 

Gruel,  Almond,  487 
Egg,  487 

Granella  Malted  Milk/4S7 
Raisin,  487 
Suggestions,  486 
Maoaroni,  419 

Baked,  in  Cream  Sauce,  421 
Browned,  and  Granella,  422 
To  Cook,  +19 
With  Corn,  421 
Cream  Mold  of,  422 

Sour,  423 
In  Milk,  422 
With  Pine  Nuts,   421 
With  Tomato  and  Onion,  432 
Vermicelli  with   Asparagus,  422 
Heals  and  Uenns,  498 
Breakfast,  495 
Dinner,  496 

Luncheons,  Evening,  ^01 
Midday,  498 
Simple  Company,  501 
Menus,  495 

Non-Starch  Meals,  502 
Public  or  Entertainment 
Supper,497  [Dinners,  499 

Heats,  Trae,  189 
^»S,  196 

a  la  Salade,  201 
Boiled,  Hard,  200 
Caramel,  215 
Carbonated,    215 
Cream,  Almond,  214 
Hanana,  214 
Honey,  214 
Lemon,  213 
Maple,  214  .  I 

Raspberry,  214 
Vanilla,  214 
Creamed,  199 

On  Toast,  200 
Croquettes,  Egg,  203 
Egg  and  Rice,  203 
In  Perfection,  212 


.b,Coot^lc 


5H 


THE   LAUREL 


Eggs,  In  the  Shell,  197 
Italian,  200 
and  Macaroni,  200 
and  Milk,  215 

Hot,  215 
With  Olives,  Ripe,  201 
,    Oroelets,  203 

Almond  Butter,  309 

Baked,  aog 

Bread,  209 

Brefid  and  Milk,  209 

Breaded  Tomato,  210 

Bread  Omelet  Pie,  210 

Butter,  Nut,  Unroasted, 

Com  Starch,  210         [209 

Cracker,  210 

Crumb   German,  210 

Foam,  208 

French,  Plain,  204. 
.    Grape,  208 
Okra  in  Almond  Cream 
Sauce,  207 
Orange  and  Another,  208 

Puff,  207 

Savory,  208 

Souffle,  211 
Trumese  Salad  Entree,    207 

Variations,  205 

Vegetable  Pudding,  207 

White  Sauce,  210 

Pickled,  201 
Poached,  198 

Beaten,  199 

Creamed  Celery,  199 

Rice,  199 

Yolks,  199 

Whites,  199 
Roasted,  198 
Scalloped  Eggs  and  Celery, 

Eggs  and  Potatoes,     [212 
Scrambled,  202       [212 

Cream  Sauce,  203 

Florentine,  203 

Large  Quantity,  202 


Scrambled,  Sour  Milk,  202 
Tomato,  202 
Scrambles,  Various,  202 
Shirred,  201 
Stuffed,  200 
Suggestions,  196 
Timbales,  211 

Rice  and  Egg,  212 
Uncooked  Egg  Dishes,  213 
With  Sauce,  200 
LegoiueB,  184 

Beana,  Baked,  Rich,  190 
Western,  19a 
Creamed,  188 
Croquettes,  188 
Flowering,  193 
Loaf,  Sister  Boulter's 

Red  Kidney,  190 
Mashed.  186 
Stewed,   193 

In  Bean  Sauce.  193 
Hash.  195 
Iisntils,  Baked,  193 

Cabbage  Leaf  Rolls  of. 
Croquettes,  188  [194 

Mashed,  185 

With  Rice,  186 
Pie,  Potato  Crust,  187 
Universal  Crust,  187 
With  Poached  Eggs,  188 
Roast,  189 
Stewed,  194 

Timbales,  Rice  and,   189 
Patties,  189 

Peas,  Baked,  Split  Green, 
Yellow,  192    [192 
Croquettes,  188 
Mashed.  186 
With  Macaroni  or 

Vermicelli,  187 
Pie,  Corn  Crust,  187 
Ragout  of  Chick,  194 
Roast,  190 
Chick,  190 


.b,Goo<^lc 


S'l 


Peas,  Stewed,  Split  Greeo, 

Timbales,  189  [igs 

Purees  of,  190 
Variegated  Meat,  i86 
Huts,  140 

A  Few  Suggestive  Com- 
binations,   142 
Almonds,  140 
Toasted,  147 
To  Blanch,  141 
Brazil  Nuts,  I41 
Butter,  143 
£or  Bread,  145 
Cocoanut,  146 
Butternuts,  141 
Cocoanut,  Ground  or 

Milk,  145        Grated,  146 
Shredded,  14.6 
Cooked  Nut  Dishes,  147 
Cheese,  Almond,  153 
Peanut,  153 
Pine  Nut,  153 
Pine  Nut  and  Ba- 
nana.  153 
Chowder,  Peanut  German, 
Confection,  Almond,  [151 

Nesselrode,  154    [153 
Croquettes,  147 

Peanut  and  Rice,  152 
Savory  Nut,  147 
Cutlets,  Nut  and  Sweet 

Potato.  148 
Fruit  and  Nut  Relish,  153 
Gumbo,  Peanut,  igo 
Hashes,  Peanut,  151 
Loaf  of  Nuts,  149 
Mound,  Black  Walnul  and 
Potato,  148 
Peanuts,  Baked,  Lemon 
Apples,  150 
Baked  like  Beans,  150 
With  Green  Peas,  150 
Hot  Pot  of.  151 
To  Boil,  149 


With  Noodles  or  Vermi- 
celli, 150 
Pie,  Peanut,  isi 

With  Turnip  Crust, 
Pine  Nuts,  Baked,  148  [152 
Roast  or  Timbale,  Niit 

'  and  Rice,  148 
Scallops,  153 
Soup  Stock,  149 
Stew,  Nut  Chinese,  150 
Cream  and  Milk,  145 

Rich,  of  Raw  Peanuts, 
Filberts.  141  .    [146 

Meal,  Nut,  144 
Peanuts,  142 
Pine  Nuts,  142 
Relish,  Nut,  146 
Walnuts,  Black,  141 

English,  141 
Natmese,  174 
Cornstarch,  175 
Tomato,  175 
Nutmese  Dishes,  175 
Nutmese  a  la  crime.  177 
With  Baked  Beans,  176 
Broiled,  176 
and  Corn.  178 
Cottage  Cheese,  175 
In  Cream  of  Tomato 

Sauce,  177 
Croquettes,   179 
Crust,  Hashed  Potato, 
Cutlets,  176  [179 

and  Green  Peas  with 

New  Potatoes,  177 

Patties,  179 

Pie,  Apple  and  Nutmese,  179 

Nutmese  and  Potato  with 

Pastry  Crust,  179 

With  Potato  Crust,  178 

and  Rice  with  Peas  Sauce, 

[176 

Scallop  of  Nutmese  and 

Tomato,  178 


.b,Gooi^lc 


5>S 


THE   LAUREL 


Shells,  Nutmese  and 
'"        ■  '  Oyster  Plant  in,  178 
■■    Stew,  Nut  Irish,    176 
,  Tomato  Nutmese  and 

Eggs,  176 
tAabaae,  154, 106. 158 
Almond,  158 
■  Brazil  Nut,  159 
Cashew  Nut,  159 
English  Walnut,  158 
'    Pine  Nut,  158 

Red  Kidney  Bean,  158 
■  Tnimese  Dishes,  159 
■  •  a  la  (reme,  Trumese 
and  Celery,  166 
Trumese  and  Maca- 
roni, 166 
Trumese  and  Mush- 
rooms, 165 
Trumese  and  Oyster 

Plant.  166 
a  la  -mode,  160 
Baked,  with  Onion  Dress- 
ing, i6a 
^    'Boiled  Dinner,   169 
*■ '     Broiled,   159 

Cannelon  of,  171 
en  Casserole,  166 
Croquettes,  172,  173 
Russian,  174 
Savory  Trumese  and 
Cutlets,   i6a       [Rice,  173 
Batter,  163,  164 
Corn,  Green,    164 
Imperial,    163 
Lemon  Rings  with 
Parsley  Butter  for,  163 
Savory  with  Mashed 

Potato,    163 
■    And  Eggs,   160 
With  Egg,  Poached,   160 
Elsa's  Roll  of,    171 
Hash,  Trumese  and 

Potato,    17+ 


Hash,  Trumese  and  Rice, 

174 
and  Italian  Sauce  on  Bis- 
cuit or  Dumplings,  160 
With  Jelly  Sauce,  160 
For  Luncheon  or  Second 
Course,  165 
With  Mushrooms,  160 
With  Onions,  162 
Pasties,  171 
Pie,  167 
Crusts,  All  Readv,   168 
Pot,  168 

Rice  and  Trumese.  167 
Ragout  (Stew)  of  Tru- 
Rissoles.  171     [mese.  164 
Salad  Entree,  159 
Scallop  with  Cracker 

Crumbs,  168 
Shortcake.  Italian  Sauce, 
168 
Smothered  with  Bananas. 
SoufHe.  172  [162 

Spanish,  162 
Stewed  Hashed,  164 
Timbale,  Boundary 

Castle  Sauce.  170 
Rice,  Trumese  and  As- 
paragus Tips.  171 
Trumese  Stuffing.  169 
Trumese  and  Rice,  170 
In  Tomato,  161 
With  Truffles  and  Mush- 
rooms. 165 
Trumese  and  Nutmese 

Dishes,  179 
Fricassee,  Nut.  179 

Nut  with  Rigatoni,  179 
Pie,  Nut  Pastry.  180 
Pudding,  Nut  Corn.  180 
Timbales,  Cream  of 

e  and  Nutmese, 
[180 


Boasts,  181 

Black  Walnut,  183 

Brazil  Nut  and  Lentil,  183 
Cutlets  of  Roast,  182 
Gr&Tiea  and  Sauces,  2aS 
Almond  and  Tomato  Cream. 
Apple  and  Onion,233         [235 
Boundary  Castle.  231 
Bread.  228 

and  Bean,  228 
For  Breaded  Carrots,  236 
Brown,  Simple,  224. 

Onion.  224 

Dried  Mushroom,  232 
Canned  Mushroom,  232 
Catsup.  Tomato,  233 
Catsups,  Other,  233 
Celerv  Consomme,  225 
Chili,'  233 
Chutney,  Apple  and 

Green  Tomato.  235 

Bro.  Coates'  Mother's,  235 

Jellied,  234 

Ripe  Cucumber,  234 

Tomato,  23+ 
Consomme,  223 
Cream  or  White,  226 

Of  Frfsh  Mushroom.  231 
Lentil,  229 
Tomato,  226 
Sister  Howard's,  226 

Tomato  Cream,  226 

Variations.  227.  228 
Currant.  234 
Drawn  Butter,  228 

Sauce.  229 

Variations,  228,  229 
Emerald,   Parsley.  229 
Everybody's  Favorite.  225 
Gooseberry,  Baked,  234 
Gravy  for  Rhode  Island 

Johnny  Cakes,  229 
Italian.  Dried  Mushroom.  232 
Lemon  Butter,  236 


For  Meat  and  Vegetable 
Mint,  235  Pies,  329 

Currant,  235 
Mushroom  and  Asparagus.  231 
Nut  Gravy  for  Roasts,  224 
Nut  and  Lentil,  230 

Onion,  224 

Plain,  224 

and  Tomato,  224 

and  Tomato  Bisque,  224 
Old-Fashioned  Milk  Gravy, 
Olive,  230  [325 

and  Nut  Butter,  231 
Peas  and  Carrot,  233 
Pink,  233 
Pickle  for  Beets.  String 

Beans  and  Carrots,  236 
Roast  Gravy,  par  excellence. 
Sauce  Americaine,  236      £225 

Imperial,  233 
Savory,  224 

Sour,  for  Carrot  Timbale,  236 
Sour  Cream,    226 
Suggestions.  223 
Swiss  Lentil,  230 
Tarragon,  239 
Vegetable.  230 
Milk,  Cream,  Butter  aud 

Cheese,  473 
Butter.  Sterilized,  474 
To  Sterilize,  474 
Cheese.  477 

Cottage,  478 
Cream.  Devonshire,  477 

Sour.  Uses  of  Without 

Milk.  To  Pasteurize.  473 
Zeiger  Case.  478 
Uusbroonu,  216 
a  la  Crftne,  319 
Baked.  317 
Broiled,  317 
Creamed.  21" 
Chop  Seuey,  218 


.b,Goo<^lc 


SIS 

Mushrooms,  Dried,  218 
Fresh,  Under  Glass  Globe, 
Pickled,  218  [219 

Pie,  Mushroom  and  Oyster 
Pufi  Balls,  218       [Planl,  219 
In  Rice  Rings,  218 
Soup,  Boundary  Castle,  220 

Cream  of  Fresh  Mushroom, 
Steamed,  217  [a20 

Stew,  218 
Stewed,  317 
Stewed,  Canned,  218 
Timbales,  219 
Pionio  and  TraTelUng  XiiuHAeB, 
Pies,  847  604 

Apple,  353 

Dutch,  354 

and  Elder-berry,  354. 
Blueberry,  354 
Buttermilk,  365 
Carrot,  369 
Cherry,  Mock,  355 
Cranberry,  355 

and  Raisin,  355 

Slewed.  355 
Cream,  Caramel,  362 

Cocoanut.  361 

Farina,  362 

My  Mother's,  363 

Nut,  362 

Parched  Corn,  363 

Par  Excellence,  361 

Of  Rice,  362 

Sour.  363 

Tomato,  362 

White,  363 
Crumb,  364 
Crust,  Bread,  351 

Butter,  351 

Or,  Pastry,  Cream,  331 

Granelta,  352  and  353 

Hot  Water, 351 

Nut  Meal,  351 
Currant.  355 


THE    LAUREL 


Currant,  Black,  355 

and  Raisin,  355 
Raspberry,  355 
Custard,  364 

That  Makes  Its  Own  Crust, 

Without  Milk,  364  [364 

Elder-berry,  355 
Pig.  355 

Fillings  for  Granella  Pies,  353 
Flakes,  350 

Gooseberry,  Green.  355 
Lemon.  358 

With  Bread,  360 

Cake  or  Sponge,  359 

Cornstarch,  360 

Cream,  359 

Custard,  361 

Without  Eggs  or  Milk,  360 

Granella  Crust,  358 

Mrs.  Hance's,  360 

That  will  Keep.  360 

Ma's,  359 

Starchless,  359 
Mince,  Crumb,  356 

Filling,  356 

Green  Tomato,  356 

Sour  Cream.  Annie  Carter, 
Orange,  361  [356 

Custard,  361 
Pastry  for  One  Large,  350 
Peach,  357 
Prune  (two),  357 
Pumpkin,  366 

Grated,  368 

One,  368 

With  Eggs,  368 

Without  Eggs,  367 
Raisin,  357 

Lemon,  357 

Meringue,  357 
Rhubarb,  358 
Canned,  358 
Elizabeth's,  358 
and  Pineapple,  358 


.b,Gooi^lc 


Pie,  Rhubarb  and  Strawberry, 
Rice,  364  [358 

Sour  Milk,  Mock  Lemon, 

With  Raisins,  365  [365 

Squash,  Lemon,  366 

and  Sweet  Potato,  366 
Two  Large,  366 
Strawberry  Meringue,  358 
Suggestions,  347 
Sweet  Potato,  365 
Tomato,  Green,  358 
Turnip,  360 
Puddmgs  aiid  Deaaerta  Witli 

SggB,    809 
Apple  Cream,  316 
Rose,  316 
Dessert,  3^3 
Apples,  Molded,  3^2 
Banana.  314 
Batter,  32  r 
Birds  Nest,  316 
Blanc  Mange,  Flour,  318 
Snow,  No  Milk,  318, 
Brown  Bread,  309 
Cabinet,  Steamed,  310 
Cocoanut  Banana,  312 


Ric 


,  321 


Corn  Cake,  309 

Starch  Meringue,  319 
Cottage,  Eggs,  320 

Cheese  and  Cake,  322 
Cream,  Sponge,  317 

Tapioca,  Eva's,  319 
In  Glasse,,  319 
Crumb,  Steamed,  310 
Custard  Apple,  313 

Boiled  or  Baked,  Plain,  311 

Cocoanut  Banana,  312 

Coffee,  312 

Corn  Starch,  312 

Lemon  Water,  312 

White,  311 

Of  Yolks  of  Eggs,  311 
Dainty  Dessert,  322 
Floating  Island,  312,  313 


a  519 

Fluff,  Bro.  Fulton's  Straw- 
berry, 315 
Fruit,  Steamed,  321 
Hattie's  Prune  Dessert,  314 
Indian,  Elizabeth's,  309 
Lemon  Snow,  316 

Souffle,  317 
Molasses  Cake  with  Whipped 
Cream,  322 
Mold,  Fruit  Juice,  317 

Sweet  Potato,  322 
Orange,  313 
Quaker,  321 
Rice  Custard.  32a 

Flour,  318 

With  Lemon  Meringue, 322 
Sea  Foam,  Sea  Moss,  319 
Souffle,  Prune,  314 
Sponge  Apple,  317 
Tapioca,  Molded,  320 

Water,  320 
Victoria  Dessert,  310 
Whips,  Fruit,  314 

Jelly,  315 

Strawberries  and  Cream, 
316 
Puddlnsa  and  Desserts  withoat 
Egga,  394 
Almond  Custard,  307 
Apple,  Mary's  Scalloped,  300 

Steamed,  with  Cream,  308 
Blanc  Mange,  306 

Irish  or  Sea  Moss,  308 

Rice  Flour,  306 
Blueberry  or  Other  Fruit, 

Steamed,  298 
Bread  and  Currant,  300 

and  Milk,   300 
Cake,  Dutch  Apple.  296 
Clabber,  308 
Cobbler,  Mother's  Peach,  299 

Pear,  299 
Corn,  Green, 308 
Cottage,  299 
Cream,  Farina  Banana,  307 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


THE   LAUREL 


Cream,  Imperial  Raspberry, 

Sago,  304  [307 

Tapioca,  Sister  BTamhall's, 
303 
Dumplings,  Apple,  Baked,  294 
Steamed,  294 

Peach,  295 
Dutch  Boiled  or  Steamed,  299 
Fig,  Steamed,  301 
Graham  Porridge,  306 
Indian,  Emeline's,  305 

Mrs.  Hinsdale's,  30& 
Jelly,  Caramel,  307 

Raspberry,  307 
Plum,  301 

American,  301 

Of  Crumbs,  301 
Pot  Pie,  Blueberry,  295 
Rice,  Cocoanut,  305 

Cream  of,  304 

"Indian",  305 

Nut  Cream  of,  305 

With  Raisins,  305 
Roly-Pbly,  Orange,  295 
Scallop,  Apple,  300 
Scalloped  Raspberries,  Blue- 
berries or  Peaches,  300 
Short  Cakes,  296 
Fillings,  297 
Steamed,  Plain,  299 
Tapioca,  Granular,  302 

Apple,  Pearl  or  Flake,  303 
Tarts  or  Dumplings,Fruit,  295 
Whole  Wheat,  Steamed,  302 
SatiooB,  Pudding,  824 
Almond  Cream,  333 

For  Puddings  or  Cereals, 

Whipped  Cream,  332       [332 
Antique,  331 
Banana  Cream,  330 
Cocoanut,  330 
Cold  Cream,  330 
Cranberry,  329 
Cream,  330 


Sauces,  Pudding,  Cream 
Creamy,  324  [Lemon,  327 

Of  Cooking  Oil,  331 
Custard,  332 
Date,  328 
Egg  Cream,  331 
Fig,  338 
Foamy,    325 

White,  330 
Fruit  Sabayon,  339 
Grape  and  Almond,  332 
Hard,  325 

Of  Cooking  Oil,  336 
Variations  of,  325 
Variegated,  326 
Jelly  Meringue,  329 
Lemon  Cream,  331 
With  Egg,  337 
Plain,  327 
Raisin,  328 
Starch  less,  327 
Maple  Sugar,    333 

Syrup,  333 
Molasses,  333 
Orange,  327 

Egg  Cream.  331 
Syrup,  338 
Peach,  339 
Pineapple,  339 
Plain,  333 
Prune,  328 
Raisin,  328 
Raspberry,  324 
Red,  334 
Rose,  333 
Strawberry,  332 
Cream,  331 
Whipped  Cream,  330 
White,  330 
Salade,  S78 

Dressings,  Cooked,  276 
Almond  Butter,  278 
Boiled,  with  Cornstarch, 

279 


.b,C00Qlc 


1^ 


Salad  Dressings,  Cooked 

Boiled,  Large  Quantity,  277 
Butter,  277 
Cream,  Sour,  277 

Sweet,  277 
Mayonnaise,  Improved,  276 
Milk,  Sweet  or  Sour,  277 
No  Oil,  277 
Nut,  no  eggs,  278 
Olive,  279 
Orange.  279 
Rhubarb,  278 
Tomato,  279 
Dressings.  Uncooked,  280 
Cream,  Mayonnaise,  283 
Quick,  Sweet,  282 
Sour,  282 

Sweet  of,  282 
Whipped,  282 
English,  281 
French,  280 
Grape,  280 
Honey,  280 
Orange,  280 
Nut,  280 
Lemonade,  281 
Mayonnaise.  282 
Cream,  283 
Green,  283 
Milk,  Sour,  282 
Orange,  281 
Raspberry  Juice,  281 
Salad  Entree.  281 
Tarragon,  281 
Fruit.  2go 

'    Additional  Combinations. 
Apple,  Cooked,  292         [2^2 
and  Cranberry,  291 
and  Pineapple,  ago 
Currant  and  Red  Rasp- 
berry, 291 
Grape  Fruit  and  Celery, 
Love  Apple,  292  [292 

Mint,  291 


Salads,  Fruit,  ■••■-:■•. 

Nut  and  Banaria,  2911  ■,')' 
Oriental, 292  ,,  ,  ,j 

Peach,  292 .     .    ■  V 

Sweet  Fruit  and  Cocoamrti-, 
True  Meat,  284  [392 

Additional  Combiqaticms, 

,.'■:,      286 

Bean,  Green  French  and 

Cucumber,  284 
Cottage  Cheese  and.  Pear, 

and  Radish,  285     [286 
Helianthus  (Sunflower)" 

Mayonnaise,  285 
Legume,  Novel,  284    ' 

Roses,  285 
Marguerite,  285 
Nut  Meat,  Hot,  284 
Trumese  and  Celery,  '^84 

Vegetable,  286 
Additional  Combinations, 
a  la  Russe,  lij  [289 

Asparagus  Mayonnaise,  288 
Bean,  String,  and  Celeiy, 
Beet  and  Olive,  288        £288 
Cauliflower,  287    , 
Cucumber  and  Onion,  288 
Dominion,  or  French 
English,  287       [Sam's,  287 
Lavender,  or  Pink,  386 
Pink  No.  2,  287 
Slaw,  Cold,  287  J 

Hot,  287, 
Snow,  Cabbage,'  286 
Tomato,  Stuffed,  289 
Sandwiohes,  466 

a  la  Salade,  471 

Bread  and  Butter,  English, 

Canapes,  470  [472 

Cottage  Cheese,  471 
Indian,  470 
Mushroom,  470 
Russian,  471 
Trumese  and  Egg,  476 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


THE    LAUREL 


Fillings  for,  4.66-470 
Tomato,  Sister  Starr's,  471 
Trumese,  non-starch,  472 
Variegated,  473 
Soaps,  74 
Bisciaes,92 

Of  Corn,  92 
Cucumber,  92 
Spinach,  94 

Milk  and  Tomato,  93 
With  Eggs,  93 

Nut  and  Tomato,  94 
CbowderstM 

Celery,  Onion  and  Corn,  97 

Corn  and  Carrot,  95 

Nut,  95 

Oyster  Plant  and  Another, 
96,  97 

Potato  and  Onion  or  Celery, 

Rice  and  Vegetable,  97   [96 

Royal  Vegetable,  97 

Seashore,  94 

String  Beans  and  Celery,  97 

Tomato  Cream,  96 
Cream  and  Milk,  84 
Cream  of  Asparagus,  85 

Bean,  85 

Beans.  String,  87 

Bouillon,  85 

Cabbage  or  Celery,  and  To- 

Carrot,  85  [mato,  85 

Celery,  86 

Chestnut,  86 

Com,  86 

Com,  Dried,  86 

Com,  Dried,  and  Carrot,  86 

Corn  and  Celery,  87 

Corn  and  Peas,  87 

Leek,  86 

Lentil,  86 

Onion,  87 

Oyster  Plant,  87 

Peas,  Dry,  87 

Peas,  Green  or  Canned,  89 


Cream  of. 

Potato,  or  Sweet  Potato,  87 
Rice,  88 
Spinach,  87 
Succotash,  87 
Tomato,  and  Another,  89 
HiBceUaneous  Cream  and 

Brazil  Nut,  90 

Broths,  Cream,  89 

Cabbage,  Milk  Stew  of,  91 

Mavflower,  91 

Okra,  with  Cream,  88 

Oyster  Bay,  91 

Plant  and  Celery,  92 
and  Corn,  92 

Cream  Stew  of,  92 

Milk  Stew  of,  92 
Paris  Onion,  88 
Peas  Pods,  Soup  of,  88 

Split,  88 

and  Tomato,  89 
Potato,  Sister  Cooley's 

Sliced,  90  [Brown,  90 

Tomato  Cream,  89 
Vegetable,  Milk.  90 
Fruit,  100 

Blueberry  and  Cocoanut, 
Cherry,  loi  [102 

Grape  Juice  Cream,  102 
Raisin  and  Almond  Broth, 
Scandinavian,  loi      [102 
Sea  Moss,  loi 
Strawberry  and  Pineapple, 
f  100 
Garnishes  and  Aooompani^ 

ments,  103 
Balls,  105 

Cream,  104 

Egg,  105 
Croutons,  102 
Dice  Royale,  103 
Dumplings,  107 
Eggs,  Spun,  106 
Miscellaneous,  103 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


533 


Noodles,  107 
Cream,  108 
Paste,  Royal.  105 
Thickening  for  Potato  Soup, 
Timbales.  Rice,  106       [106 
Onr  FamouB  Soaps,  99 
Fnrdes,  97 
Almond,  97 
Of  Potatoes,  g8 

Sago,  98 
Split  Peas,  98 
Suggestions,  76 
Water,  76 
Bean,  83 

Unstrained,  83 
Bouillon,  Cereal,  78 

Nut,  76 
Broths,  Legume,  79 

Tomato,  79 
Cabbage  and  Tomato,  80 
Celery  and  Tomato,  80 
Consomme,  Vegetable,  77 
Egg,  79 

French.  Nut,  79 
Gumbo,  Nut.  82 
Mother's.  82 
Nut  and  Barley,  80 
Onion,  80 
Peas,  Chick,  83, 

Split  and  Onion.  81 
Potato  with  Onion  or  Ccl- 
Rice,  Savory.  80      [er\ ,  81 
Stock.  Dark.  78 
Vegetable,  78 
White.  77 
Tampa  Bay,  82 
Tomato.  82 

Vegetable.  No.  i,  a,  3,  8r 
StntfiDgB  and  DressingB,  221 
Black  Walnut  and  Potato,  222 
Celery,  222 
Chestnut.  22a 
Danish,  221 
Nut  and  Raisin,  322 


Onion  and  Parsley,  232      - 
Savory,  2a  i 
Simple,  221 
Vegetable,  222 
Vegetables,  287 
Artichokes,  Globe,  238 

Jerusalem,  238 
Asparagus,  239 

Cream  or  Butter,  240 

Drawn  Butter,  240 

Egg  Cream  Sauce,  240 

Sauce  Americaine,  240 
Beans,  String,  Cream,  240 

Nut  and  Tomato  Bisque 

Sauce,  241 

Shelled,  Green.  341 

Flowering.  Green,  241 
Beets.  242 

Pickled,  242 
Broccoli,  24a 
Brussels  Sprouts,  243 
Cabbage.  Boiled,  Plain,  243 

and  Corn,  244 

In  Cream  or  My  Mother's, 
243 

With  Nuts  and  Raisins,  244 

Sour,  244 

Sweet  Sour,  244     . 

In  Tomato,  344 
Carrots,  244 

a  la  Washington,  245 

and  Beets,  246 
Corn,  346 

Minced,  245 

and  Onions,  246 
Peas,  245 

Pickled.  245 

Stewed,  245 

and  String  Beans,  245 
Succotash.  245 
Cauliflower,246 
Celery,  Mint  Sauce,  347 

Raw.  247 

Stewed.  247 


.b,CjOOt^lc 


fM 


Celefy;'  In  Tomato,  248 
Chard,  Swiss,  248 
Corn,  Baked,  250 

In  Husks,  249 
Boiled,  249 

lb  Husks,  249 
On  the  Cob,  248 
Dried,  25a 
Green,  248 
Roasted,  250 
Slitter,  24.9 
£>teajned,  249 
■  :■  In  Husk^,  249 
Slewed,  250 

In  Milk.  250  __ 

Cucumbers,  251 -.  '      ■- 
au  Natural,  251 
Sliced,  251 
Stewed,  252 
Egg  Plant,  252 

In  Batter,  252 
Greens,  253 

Kale,  254 
Okra,  Sliced,  Stewed,  254 

Stewed  whole,  254 
Onions,  Baked,  255 
Boiled,  255 
Raw,  255 
Stewed,   255 
Oyster  Plant,  256 

with  Celery  or  Corn,  257 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  25 
Stewed  or  Creamed,  256 
Parsley,  257 
Parsnips,  257 
Boiled,  257 
Browned,  258 
Fricassee  of,  258 
Mashed,  258 
Stewed,  25S 
Peas,  258 
With  Corn,  259 
German  Way,  259 
Melting  Sugar,  259 


Peas,  With  New  Potatoes,  259 
Parisian  Style,  259 
Stewed,  258 
Poke  Shoots,  254 
Potatoes,  259 
Baked,  260 
Boiled  Early,  261 

Late  or  Winter,  261 
Browned  Mashed  Slices,  264 
Cakes,  263 
Creamed  Stewed,  262 

Warnjed  Over,  262 

Water,  262 
Hashed  Browned,  263 

Creamed,  263 
Irish  Way,  261 
In  Jackets,  261 
Mashed,  263 
New,  Small,  262 
Parisian,  Improved,  263 
Puree,  264 
Steamed,  262 
Sweet,  Baked,  264 

Boiled,  264 

Mashed,  264 
Preserving 

Corn  in  Brine,  73 

Beans,  String,  in  Brine,  73 

To  Can,  69 

Asparagus,  70 

In  Full  Lengths,  70 

Beans,  Shelled,  70 
String,  70 

Beets,  71 

Corn,  71 

Greens,  70 

Mushrooms,  71 

Okra,  71 

Peas,  71 
To  Dry,  72 

Beans,  Shelled,  72 
String,  72 

Corn,  72 


Mushrc 


,  72 


.b,Cj00t^lc 


Vegetables,  Pumpkin,  Baked, 

Individual,     [265 
Mashed,  265  [265 

Radishes,  265 
Spinach,  265 

With  Cream,  266 
Squash,  Summer,  266 
Baked,  Ripe,  266 
With  Corn,  266 
Winter,  266 

Baked,  Mashed,  267 
Virginia  Way,  267 
Mashed,  267 


Vegetables,  Starch  less,  270 

and  Sugarless,  270 
Suggestions,  237 
Tomatoes,  267 

Broiled,  269 

Puree,  269 

Raw,  268 

Steamed,  268 

Stewed,  268 
Turnips,  269 

Boiled,  269 

Mashed,  370 
Vegetable  Stew,  270 


The  "Savory  "  Double  Boiler 


D.qitizeabyG00<^lc 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


I 


Gooi^le 


D.qilizMb,G00l^le 


