UBRARY  Oi-  CUNbRIESS 


WILLOW  GROVE 
PARK 


Americas  Summer 
Musical  Center 

Presenting  the 
Highest  Class  Musical  Attractions 
of  the  World 


ELECTRIC  FOUNTAIN  DISPLAY 
EVERY  AFTERNOON 
AND  EVENINIG 


MODERN  AMUSEMENTS 


THE  IDEAL  PLACE  FOR  AN  OUTING 


Willow  Grove 
Heating  and  Plumbing 
Company 

YORK  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE 

Opposite  Railroad  Station 

Steam  and  Hot  Water  Heating 
Pipeless  Heaters  and  Gas  Fittings 

Estimates  cheerfully  given 
Jobbing  promptly  attended  to 

FRANK  SCHIESSER,  Prop.  BELL  PHONE 


For  Good  Results  and  Satisfaction 

When  Baking  or  Cooking  Use  These  Recipes 

WHEN  BUILDING 

place  your 

Building  and  Construction  Problems 

with 

ROY  RANDALL 

and  be  relieved  of  further  anxiety  and  worry 
FOR  MORE  AND  BETTER  HOMES 

ROY  RANDALL 

Suburban  Builder 
Moreland  Ave.,  midway  between  York  and  Easton 
Roads 

PHONE,  HATBORO  102-R  HORSHAM,  PA. 

Estimates  on  All  Lines  of  Building  Construction 


MEMORIAL  HALL 

COOK  BOOK 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE 

WOMEN'S  COMMITTEE 

OF  THE 

WILLOW  GROVE 
MEMORIAL  HALL  BUILDING  FUND 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PENNA. 
COMMITTEE  PERSONNEL 

MRS.  J.  DYRE  MOYER,  Chairman 

MRS.  JOHN  R.  HOWARTH,  Secretary 
MRS.  W.  R.  PUGH,  Treasurer 

MRS.  HOWARD  LEADBEATER,  Asst.  Treasurer 

MRS.  W.  S.  HOLT  MRS.  H.  R.  JOHNSON 

MRS.  SILAS  MORRIS         MRS.  J.  RAYMOND  POTTS 

PRICE      -      -  $1.25 


THE  WALTHER  PRINTING  HOUSE,  PHILADELPHIA 


2010 


TO  OUR  SOLDIER  AND  SAILOR  LADDIES 
AND  OUR  LASSIE 
OF 

LIBERTY  POST  No.  308, 
AMERICAN  LEGION 

WHO 

IN  DEFENSE  OF  OPPRESSED  HUMANITY 
SO  SERVED 
AT  HOME  AND  OVERSEAS 
DURING  THE  GREAT  WORLD  WAR 
AS  TO 

HELP  BRING  UNDYING  GLORY 
TO  THEIR  GOD  AND  THEIR  COUNTRY 

THIS  LITTLE  BOOK 
IS  DEDICATED 


America,  Our  Own 


God  called  to  Thee, — America — and, — Smiling — on  that  day, 

Thou  Faced  an  East  of  Shot  and  Shell — and  Went  That  Flaming  Way; 

With  many  sailing  proudly, — their  voices  ringing  gay, — 

With  many  cheering  loudly, — who  could  but  wait  and  pray! 

God  Tested  Thee, — America — and  Found  Thee  to  His  Mind! 
The  Voucher  That  He  granted  Thee — Was  With  Thy  Life-Blood  Signed! 
Oh, — those  that  had  reviled  Thee, — who  snarled  at  Thee,  and  whined, — 
When  naught  they  found  defiled  Thee, — went  hiding  with  their  kind! 

God  Found  No  Change, — America, — Thy  Sons  Were  As  Their  Sires; 
The  Thoughts  of  Them, — the  Deeds  of  Them — Were  Lit  At  Self-Same  Fires! 
The  Voice  of  Helpless, — Calling — Bred  Strength  That  Never  Tires! 
The  Fear  of  Freedom's  Falling, — Heaped  Countless  German  Pyres! 

God  Smiles  on  Thee, — America — At  Finish  Of  The  Fight, — 

He  Feels  Thou'lt  Aye  Be  Willing— To  Sacrifice  For  Right! 

Oh — May  It  Ever  Guide  Thee, — That  Selfless  Spirit  Bright, — 

Oh — May  Christ  Never  Chide  Thee — For  Turning  From  The  Light! 

Willow  Grove,  Pa.,  Jan.,  1919.  Laura  Walters  Moter 


5 


Liberty  Post  308,  American  Legion 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Ex-Service  Men — Join  Now! 

DUES,  $3.00 

Meets  First  and  Third  Tuesday  of 
Every  Month 


EGGS-FISH— SEA  FOOD 


Apple  Omelet 

Stew  6  apples ;  beat  smooth  while  hot,  add  1  tblsp.  butter,  6  tblsps. 
sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  When  very  cold,  add  4  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks,  then  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Put  in  a  deep  dish, 
warmed  and  buttered,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  golden  brown. 
Garnish  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Deviled  Eggs 

Cut  1  doz.  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  and  remove  yolks.  Mash 
and  mix  with  2  tblsps.  melted  butter,  1  small  tsp.  mustard,  enough 
vinegar  to  soften,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  parsley.  Fill  into  whites. 
— Mrs.  Joseph  Pugh. 

Eggs  Marchesa 

Warm  and  butter  muffin  tins.  Into  each  put  1  tsp.  soft  bread 
crumbs,  add  a  dessertsp.  milk,  then  drop  an  egg  in  carefully.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Moisten  with  another  dessertsp.  milk, 
dot  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  10  min.,  loosen  edges,  turn  on  hot  platter  and 
garnish. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Put  piece  of  butter  in  pan;  when  hot,  put  in  6  unbeaten  eggs, 
with  Vz  cup  cream.  When  formed,  stir  with  fork  till  done.  Serve 
hot. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumpield. 

Souffled  Eggs 

Beat  4  egg  whites  stiff,  and  add  %  tsp.  salt.  Arrange  on  4  cir- 
cular pieces  of  toast,  depressing  each  center,  into  which  slip  a  yolk. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  grated  cheese  and  bake  till  slightly  browned. 
— Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 


AMERICAN  LEGION  AUXILIARY 

OF 

LIBERTY  POST  No.  308 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 
MEETS  THIRD  TUESDAY  EACH  MONTH 
7 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  1 03 

Salmon  Croquettes 

Melt  1  tblsp.  of  butter  over  fire,  add  1  tblsp.  flour  and  mix  well. 
Add  %  cup  cold  milk  slowly;  stir  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  Vi  tsp. 
salt  and  dash  of  pepper  and  boil  2  minutes.  Let  cool,  then  stir  into 
a  can  of  salmon.  Add  a  beaten  egg,  enough  cracker  crumbs  to  shape 
into  cakes,  and  fry. — Mrs.  Horace  L.  Houpt. 

Salmon  Loaf 

Mix  1  can  salmon,  %  cup  milk,  2  eggs  (with  juice  of  a  lemon 
beaten  in),  1  tblsp.  butter,  1  tsp.  salt,  and  %  tsp.  pepper,  and  put 
in  a  dish  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  cracker  crumbs  (use 
%  cup  in  all).  Steam  1  hr.,  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Johnson. 

Salmon  Turbot 

Season  a  can  of  salmon  (retaining  the  juice),  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Make  a  dressing  of  1  pt.  milk,  a  large  lump  of  butter  mixed 
with  enough  flour  to  make  a  half-cupful,  and  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Cook  thick,  pour  over  the  salmon,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  John  S.  Mason. 

Baked  Shad 

Rub  the  cleaned  fish  well  with  salt.  Moisten  crumbled  bread 
slightly  with  stock  or  water,  add  butter  (size  of  walnut),  some  thyme 


SATISFACTION 

Satisfactory  recipes  need  satisfactory 
utensils  to  get  satisfactory  results. 
S.  &  C.  kitchen  and  cooking  utensils 
are  always  satisfactory  and  bring  satis- 
factory results. 

Your  kitchen  needs  are  supplied  satis- 
factorily by 

SO  PAINT  AND 

•  OC        HARDWARE  CO. 

York  Road  at  West  Avenue 

JENKINTOWN 

DELIVERY— PHONE  OGONTZ  981-W 

5.  &  C  —  Service  and  Courtesy 


8 


We  insure  titles  to  real  estate 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  stuff  into  shad,  and  sew.  Place  fish  up- 
right in  pan,  propping  with  meat  skewers,  and  add  a  little  milk  and 
butter  for  basting.— Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Robinson. 

Baked  Shad 

Stuff  the  shad  with  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  melted  butter,  a 
little  minced  onion,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  it  a  cupful  of 
salted  boiling  water  containing  2  tblsps.  butter.  Sprinkle  with  flour, 
and  bake  in  steady  oven  about  45  minutes,  basting  every  10  minutes. 
If  a  sauce  is  desired,  thicken  the  drippings  with  2  tblsps.  browned 
wet  flour,  and  cook  smooth.  Add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  tblsp.  good  table  sauce,  and  1  tsp.  kitchen  bouquet.  Strain, 
if  necessary. — Mrs.  J.  Dyke  Moyer. 

Deviled  Clams 

Put  25  large  clams  through  grinder.  Add  2  tblsps.  flour,  1  tblsp. 
butter,  and  1  egg,  beaten  light.  Boil  for  5  minutes.  Add  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  a  sprig  of  parsley  cut  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  clam 
shells,  and  either  fry  in  hot  fat  or  bake. — Eva  M.  Duffield. 

Deviled  Clams 

Brown  a  little  onion  in  %  lb.  butter.  Remove  onion,  and  add  a 
loaf  of  bread,  in  small  pieces,  15  chopped  clams  (not  too  large), 
some  clam  juice  and  %  cup  milk;  make  quite  wet.    Season  with  a 


SHEETROCK 

THE  FIRE-PROOF  WALL  BOARD 
IS  A  DIFFERENT  WALL  BOARD 

Made  from  rock.  Will  not  warp.  Resists  heat, 
cold,  and  sound.  Saws  and  nails  like  lumber.  Makes 
a  smooth,  solid,  permanent  wall.  Takes  any  decora- 
tion— paper,  paint  or  panels. 

Approved  by  the  Underwriters*  Laboratories,  Inc., 
of  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters. 

SIZES: 

Y%  in.  thick,  32  or  48  in.  wide,  and  6  to  1 0  ft.  long 
FOR  SALE  BY 

J.  DYRE  MOYER 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


9 


H.  W.  MOUSLEY,  Florist 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

GREENHOUSE,  MORELAND  ROAD  AND  CHURCH  STREET 
All  Kinds  of  Vegetable  and  Flower  Plants 
Brighten  the  Corner  Where  You  Live  With  Flowers.     Give  Us  a  Call 


little  salt  (no  pepper),  and  add  2  finely-chopped  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Cook  a  little  while,  then  stuff  into  the  buttered  shells,  dot  with  butter 
and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  Edward  Carl. 

Oysters  in  Batter 

Dip  a  pint  of  oysters,  one  by  one,  into  a  batter  made  of  1  beaten 
egg,  flour,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Raise  a  ladleful  of  batter  with 
each  oyster  and  fry  in  several  tblsps.  of  smoking  hot  butter. — Mrs. 
John  R.  Howarth. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Make  a  sauce  of  1  tblsp.  tomato  catsup,  %  tblsp.  grated  horse- 
radish, %  tblsp.  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  iMsp.  lemon  juice,  xk  tsp. 
tobasco  sauce,  V2  tblsp.  vinegar,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Set  on 
ice  for  an  hour.  Chill  30  small  oysters,  also  six  small  glasses  before 
filling.— L.  W.  M. 


YE  OLDE  MILL  TEA  HOUSE 


LUNCHEON— DINNER— TEA 
OLD  YORK  ROAD  AT  HORSHAM  ROAD  HATBORO,  PA. 

Phone,  Hatboro  157-W 
10 


D.  M.  MAURER  H.  W.  MAURER 

THE  DAISY  SHOP 

Ladies'  Hats,  Waists,  Skirts,  Dresses,  Hosiery 
Decorator,  Gift  Shop,  Pottery,  Lamps,  Cretonnes 
YORK  ROAD,  HATBORO,  PA. 
More  Style  More  Quality — More  Service — For  Less  Money 


Oyster  Fritters 

To  1  pint  of  oysters,  chopped  fine,  add  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
of  flour,  sifted  with  1  tsp.  of  Eumford  baking  powder,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  and  fry  like  doughnuts. — Mrs.  John  R. 
Howarth. 

Panned  Oysters 

Fit  rounds  of  buttered  toast  in  buttered  pate  pans;  lay  oysters, 
side  by  side,  on  the  toast,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with 
butter  and  moisten  slightly  with  oyster  liquor.  Set  the  pans  in  a 
covered  roaster,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  10  minutes,  or  until 
oysters  "ruffle."   Serve  in  pans. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Oyster  Patties 

Bake  rich  pie  crust  in  gem  pans  and  bake  covers  for  each  "patty" 
in  separate  pans.  Heat  1  pint  milk  and  %  pint  water,  (or  as  much 
as  needed).  Strain  oysters  and  add  juice  to  milk  and  water;  add  salt. 
Thicken  with  flour  and  water  and  add  lump  of  butter.  Drop  15 
oysters  in  and  cook  until  edges  curl.  Place  in  the  pastry  cups,  add 
pastry  covers,  and  serve  immediately. — Mrs.  Horace  L.  Houpt. 

Cheltenham  and  Jenkintown 
Ice  Manufacturing  Company 

SANITARY  ICE 

NO  MORE  DISPUTES 
Buy  With  Coupons  for  Convenience  and  Accuracy 

PLANTS: 
OGONTZ,  PA.  WYNCOTE,  PA. 

PHONES:  Bell,  Melrose    1432;  Keystone,  Jenkintown  9 

"SAVE  IT  WITH  ICE" 


11 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  DavisvUIe  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
Everything  "in  season"  and  "out  of  season"  when  prices  permit 


SOUPS 

The  average  American  housewife  does  not  appreciate  the 
all-around  value  of  soup  on  the  daily  menu.  A  good  soup  is  not 
only  appetizing  and  nourishing,  but  serves  as  a  splendid  aid  to 
digestion — and,  moreover — proves  an  effectual  reducer  of  the 
family  "budget." 

If  a  good  "stock"  is  kept  constantly  on  hand,  a  soup  "first 
course"  for  dinner,  or  a  heavier  soup  that  will  serve  as  the  main 
dish  for  luncheon,  is  an  easy  matter  to  accomplish. 

The  motto  of  the  soup-maker  should  be — "Good,  strong, 
GREASELESS  stock."  All  meat  stocks  should  be  allowed  to  get 
perfectly  cold,  and  then  skimmed  of  every  vestige  of  fat. 

A  Good  Soup  Stock 

Put  4  lbs.  of  beef  marrow  bones,  well  cracked,  1  lb.  of  coarse  lean 
beef,  chopped  as  for  beef  tea,  and  1  lb.  of  lean  veal  in  a  large  pot  with 
7  qts.  of  cold  water.  Add  1  large  onion,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  6  small 
stalks  of  "second  class"  celery,  and  a  cabbage  leaf,  all  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Cover  closely.  Do  not  let  water  reach  the  scalding  point  for 
an  hour,  then  simmer  slowly  for  6  hours.  Remove  from  stove  and 
season.  Next  day,  remove  all  fat,  strain  out  bones  and  vegetables, 
pressing  hard  to  extract  all  the  nourishment,  and  place  in  ice  box, 
using  as  needed.  Many  soups  and  broths  can  be  founded  on  this 
stock. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

"Left-Over"  Stock 

Save  all  bones  of  cooked  meats,  left  from  the  carving,  also  the 
grisly  parts  of  roasts  and  steaks,  and  cold  vegetables,  adding  even  a 
baked  apple  now  and  then.  About  twice  a  week,  put  all  in  the  stock- 
pot,  cracking  the  bones  well,  cover  deep  with  cold  water,  and  cook 


RENNINGER  &  RENNINGER 


Realtors 


GLENSIDE,   PEN  N  A  . 


12 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


slowly  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  original  quantity. 
Season  to  taste  and  strain,  pressing  hard.  Skim  when  cold.  Barley, 
rice,  tomatoes — in  fact  almost  any  vegetable  or  cereal  can  be  added 
to  this  stock. — Contributed. 

Cream  of  Asparagus 

Press  the  asparagus  through  sieve,  and  add  required  quantity  of 
milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  celery,  and  thicken  with 
cornstarch.  Serve  with  narrow  toast  fingers,  sprinkled  with  grated 
cheese. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Cream  of  Celery 

Cut  up  two  stalks  of  celery,  add  the  leaves,  with  just  enough 
cold  water  to  cover,  and  stew  to  a  pulp.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  a  slice 
of  onion,  minced  fine,  and  cook  till  tender.  Half  an  hour  before  serv- 
ing, add  a  quart  of  rich  milk  (heated),  and  simmer  five  minutes. 
Strain,  and  thicken  slightly  with  a  level  tblsp.  of  flour  blended  with 
the  same  quantity  of  melted  butter.  Cook  until  smooth,  and  strain 
again  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Clam  Chowder 

Fry  2  slices  of  bacon  lightly,  in  pot,  then  remove,  and  add  several 
slices  of  onion  to  the  fat.  Cut  6  potatoes  in  small  dice,  and  place  a 
layer  in  pot,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  clams  and  small  bits  of  bacon; 
then  add  a  layer  of  broken  crackers.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  pot  in  this  layer  manner.  Add  clam  juice  and  water  enough  to 
more  than  cover.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  done.  Just  before  serving, 
add  1  pt.  hot  milk.   Serves  six. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Clam  Chowder 

Boil  15  finely-chopped  clams  in  IV2  qts.  water  for  Vz  hour.  Cut 
in  pieces  and  add  1  large  onion,  1  carrot,  4  tomatoes  (or  1  can),  and 
4  potatoes,  and  boil  V2  hour  longer.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
parsley,  thicken  with  IV2  tblsps.  flour,  mixed  with  butter  (size  of  an 
egg)  and  before  serving  add  1  pt.  hot  milk. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 


ALEXANDER  BETCHER 

BUILDER 

DAVISVILLE  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Post  Office,  Hatboro,  R.  D.,  Pa.  Bell  Phone 

Erector  of  Quality  Buildings  at  Fair  Prices 

NO    JOB    TOO  LARGE 

SEE  THE 

Tabor  Home  Dormitory,  Doylestown,  Pa. 
Dr.  George  R.  Ulrich  Residence,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 
Henry  Querns  Residence,  1214  Lehigh  Ave.,  Phila. 
Christ's  Home  School,  Warrington 

J.  Dyre  Moyer  Lumber  Storage  Sheds,  Willow  Grove.  Pa. 

13 


GRACE  T.  QUIGLEY 
Insurance 

YORK  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


Ham  Chowder 

Cook  2  cups  diced  potatoes  and  2  cups  shredded  carrots  in  3 
pts.  of  boiling  water  (covered),  till  done.  Add  2  cups  cold,  boiled 
ham,  diced,  1  tsp.  onion  juice  and  4  whole  cloves.  Thicken  with  1 
tblsp.  flour  and  1  tblsp.  cornstarch  mixed  with  1  cup  milk,  add  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  chowder  over  Vz  lb.  broken  crackers  and 
serve  at  once. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Ox  Tail  Soup 

Cut  an  ox- tail  into  joints,  and  fry  brown  in  soup-pot,  in  good 
dripping.  Remove,  and  fry  3  sliced  onions  and  2  carrots  in  the  fat. 
Drop  in  some  thyme  and  parsley,  tied  in  a  lace  bag.  Add  the  tail  and 
2  lbs.  lean  beef  cut  in  strips.  Sprinkle  with  2  grated  carrots,  add  4 
qts.  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  4  hrs.  Strain,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  thicken  with  browned  flour,  wet  with  cold  water.  Boil  15  min. 
longer,  and  serve. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Oyster  Stew 

Cook  oysters  with  some  of  their  juice,  a  little  cold  water,  and  a 
good-sized  piece  of  butter,  until  they  ruffle  enough  to  have  cooked 
through,  seasoning  when  done.  Add  sufficient  milk,  bring  to  scalding 
point,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Dried  Pea  or  Bean  Soup 

Pick  and  soak  split  peas,  dried  green  peas,  or  black  or  white 
beans  overnight.  Drain,  measure,  add  4  times  as  much  cold  water, 
and  half  an  onion  for  each  qt.  of  water.    Simmer  slowly  till  soft, 

WM.  T.  MULDREW 

CIVIL  ENGINEER 

JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

OFFICE:  Jenkintown  Trust  Company  Building 
DRAUGHTING  ROOMS:  Trank  Building 

BELL  PHONE,  OGONTZ  1596-J 

KEYSTONE  PHONE,  JENKINTOWN  84-R 

14 


N.  S.  STELTZER 


DRUGS 


YORK  ROAD  AND  RUBICAM  AVENUE 


WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


then  rub  through  sieve.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  for  each 
qt.  allow  1  tsp.  each  of  butter  and  flour  thickening.  Boil  again  a  few 
minutes.  Black  bean  soup  should  have  a  pinch  of  mustard  and  a 
little  lemon  juice  added  also,  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg. — Mrs.  H. 
R.  Johnson. 


Slice  and  stew  until  tender  6  good-sized,  firm  tomatoes  with  1 
sliced  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  2  cloves,  and  sprig  parsley,  in  \xk  pts.  of 
water  or  stock.  (Omit  the  water,  if  using  canned  tomatoes).  Rub 
everything  possible  through  sieve,  and  thicken  with  2  tblsps.  flour 
blended  with  2  tblsps.  butter.  Stir  till  boiling,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  %  tsp.  soda,  and  just  before  serving,  1  pt.  of  scalded  milk. — 
Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 


Chop  2  carrots,  1  onion,  %  head  cabbage  and  2  turnips  fine, 
cover  with  water  and  boil  1  hour.  Add  1  tblsp.  butter,  2  large  pota- 
toes chopped  fine,  and  some  meat  stock,  and  boil  %  hour.  Season 
to  taste. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 


Tomato  Cream  Soup 


Vegetable  Soup 


LOOK  UP! 


LIFT  UP! 


EPWORTH  LEAGUE 


Willow  Grove 


QUALITY 


OGONTZ  1344-W 


SERVICE 


Household  Specialties 


NORTH  GLENSIDE,  PA. 


15 


Cream  Vegetable  Soup 

Cut  corn,  peas,  carrots,  potatoes  and  tomatoes  fine  and  cook  in 
enough  water  to  cover.  When  done,  add  1  pt.  milk,  lump  of  butter, 
and  noodles,  and  season  to  taste.  Serve  when  it  steams.  Very 
good. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Vegetable  Turtle 

Soak  a  pint  of  black  or  turtle  beans  over  night  in  plenty  of  cold 
water,  then  cook  till  tender,  adding  a  little  more  water  (hot),  if 
necessary.  Add  2  qts.  of  beef  stock,  or  water  to  which  a  bouillon  cube 
or  two  has  been  added.  Cook  slowly  till  beans  can  be  mashed  through 
a  sieve.  Add  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  bring  to 
a  boil,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  either  flour  or  cornstarch, 
blended  with  a  little  water.  Slice  a  hard-boiled  egg  and  half  a 
lemon  in  the  soup  tureen,  pour  the  boiling  soup  over,  and  serve  at 
once.  If  desired,  a  little  onion  and  celery,  and  a  tiny  bit  of  bay  leaf 
may  be  boiled  with  the  beans. — Contributed. 

Noodles 

One  cup  flour,  1  egg,  V2  egg  shell  of  cold  water,  a  very  little  salt. 
Roll  out  very  thin,  let  dry,  then  cut  in  very  narrow  strips.  Cook 
20  min.  in  salted  water,  and  drain.  (Noodles  make  a  vegetable  substi- 
tute by  adding  1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  browned  in 
butter  and  IV2  cups  cream  or  milk.  Bring  to  boil  and  serve.) — Mrs. 
J.  Raymond  Potts. 


ii 


Furniture  of  the  Better  Kind 

At  Attractively  Marked  Prices 

HUB  FURNITURE  COMPANY 

Floor  Coverings    :  Bedding 
TWO  STORES: 
22-24  W.  Chelten  Ave.         4734  Frankford  Ave. 
Germantown  Frankford 


The  Willow  Grove  Community  Church 

SEEKS  TO  SERVE 


Services  Every  Sunday 

2.30  P.M.,  SUNDAY  SCHOOL 

7.30  P.M.,  EVENING  WORSHIP  WITH  SERMON 

You  Are  Welcome 

16 


POULTRY 


The  White  House  Chicken  Pie 

Boil  chicken  till  it  falls  from  bones;  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook 
small  potatoes  and  1  small  onion  in  the  broth.  Sift  1  qt.  flour  with 
1  tsp.  salt  and  2  heaping  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  work  in  egg- 
sized  piece  of  lard,  and  enough  milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Line  baking 
dish  with  part  of  pastry,  and  bake  in  hot  oven;  then  fill  with  the 
chicken,  potatoes  and  a  little  broth,  cover  with  remaining  pastry,  and 
brown  in  quick  oven.   Thicken  remaining  broth  and  serve  over  pie. 

Baked  Chicken  Pot  Pie 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  rich 
pastry,  reserving  enough  for  top  crust  and  for  squares  to  be  scattered 
through  pie.  Cut  up  a  large,  tender  fowl  and  %  lb.  of  lean  salt  pork ; 
place  a  layer  of  the  pork  in  dish,  pepper  it  and  cover  with  chicken, 
and  lay  pastry  squares  or  dumplings  on  top.  (If  using  potatoes,  also, 
slice  and  parboil  them,  and  place  on  the  pastry  squares.)  Continue 
this  layer  method  till  chicken  is  all  used.  Cover  the  dish  with 
thickly-rolled  pastry,  and  bake  very  slowly  2  hrs.  Turn  out  on  large 
dish,  with  the  lower  crust  up,  and  the  gravy  around  it.  (Chop  3 
hard  boiled  eggs  and  stew  among  the  chicken.) — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 


GIFTS 

MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS  AND  SUPPLIES 
PHONOGRAPHS  AND  RECORDS,  WATCHES,  CLOCKS, 
DIAMONDS,  CUT  GLASS,  JEWELRY,  SILVERWARE, 
NOVELTIES,  UMBRELLAS,  ETC. 

REPAIRING  OF  ALL  KINDS 

FOY'S  JEWELRY  AND  GIFT  STORE 

York  Road  at  West  Ave.,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 


WILLOW  GROVE  ECONOMY  DEPT.  STORE 

Headquarters  for 
LADIES/  MEN'S  AND  CHILDREN'S  FURNISHINGS 

MORSE  &  ROGERS— WALTON  ALL  LEATHER  SHOES 
UNITED  STATES— GOODYEAR  RUBBERS  AND  BOOTS 

Ehrenpfort  Block,   York   Road  Opposite  Trolley   Waiting  Room 
Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


Looking  now  for  an  acceptable  yet  cheap  gift  for  a  housewife,  or 
something  "extra"  to  tuck  into  that  Xmas  box? 
Order  a  copy  of  this  Book. 
(Committee  names  on  title  page). 


17 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Cream  Chicken 

Mix  2  tblsps.  butter  with  2  tblsps.  flour,  and  add  to  1  pt.  of  boil- 
ing milk.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  add  2  tsps.  chopped  parsley. 
Add  1  qt.  cold,  diced  chicken,  and  heat  through.  Serve,  garnished 
with  parsley. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Creamed  Chicken  and  Mushrooms 

Clean  chicken  as  for  roasting,  then  put  on  ice  at  least  one  day. 
Boil  in  salted  water — when  cool,  cut  in  dice.  Add  1  lb.  cooked  mush- 
rooms, and  1  pt.  of  cream.  Thicken  with  blended  flour  and  butter, 
and  season  to  taste. — Mrs.  C.  K.  Brumfield. 

Chicken  en  Casserole 

Put  into  the  casserole  3  tblsps.  butter,  a  small  onion  and  half  a 
carrot,  sliced  thin.  Cook  10  minutes,  and  add  the  chicken,  cut  as  for 
fricassee.  Brown  and  cook  for  Vz  hr.  Add  IV2  cups  of  stock  or  boil- 
ing water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  2  bay  leaves.  Bake  \xk  hrs.  in 
a  moderate  oven,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  can  of 
mushrooms.  Cook  15  minutes  longer,  and  serve  in  the  dish. — Mrs.  H. 
R.  Johnson. 

Fried  Spring  Chicken 

Clean  and  disjoint,  then  soak  in  salt  water  for  2  hrs.  Put  in 
frying  pan  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter,  (enough  to  cover  chicken). 
Roll  each  piece  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs. 


GET  A 

"FLORENCE"  or  "NESCO" 
OIL  COOK  STOVE 

WE.  SELL  THEM! 

Yerkes  Hardware  Store 

HATBORO,  PA. 


Builders'  Hardware,  Electrical  Supplies 
Glass,  Paints  and  Varnishes 


STORE  OPEN  7  A.  M.  to  6  P.  M. 
SATURDAY  EVENING  UNTIL  9  P.  M. 


18 


This    is    a    STUDEBAKER  Year 

ROGERS  MOTORS,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 


Drop  in  boiling  fat,  fry  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  or 
without  cream  dressing. — Mrs.  David  J.  Nolan. 

Savory  Chicken 

Prepare  a  3  lb.  chicken  as  for  frying,  and  roll  each  piece  in  a 
mixture  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  2  tblsps.  butter  in  a  double 
roaster,  and  put  the  chicken  in,  covering  with  hot  water.  Bake  till 
tender  (about  1  hr.)  Must  be  done  in  a  double  roaster,  to  preserve 
the  flavor. — Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Robinson. 

Smothered  Chicken 

Broilers,  or  other  really  young  fowls,  are  necessary  for  this. 
Split  down  the  back  after  cleaning,  and  lay  flat  on  the  grating  of  a 
covered  roaster,  skin  side  down.  Put  in  a  very  hot  oven.  After  five 
minutes,  baste  well  with  melted  butter.  Turn  as  soon  as  the  inside 
has  colored  slightly,  and  baste  again  with  butter.  When  nearly  done, 
dredge  well  with  flour,  and  baste  again.  They  should  be  tender  and 
delicately  brown  in  half  an  hour.  Remove  from  pan,  keeping  hot. 
Add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  drippings,  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
and  boil  a  minute  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Goose  Pie 

Cut  the  goose  at  every  joint,  and  cover  with  cold,  unsalted  water. 
Warm  gradually,  and  stew  slowly  (never  boiling  hard),  for  4  or  5 
hrs.    (If  more  water  is  needed  during  cooking,  always  add  boiling). 


SUBURBAN  HOMES 
AND  HOME  SITES 

The  Choicest  List  of  Properties 
on  the  Reading  Road 
Send  For  It! 

Our  Sales  Department  renders  unusual  service  to 
those  wishing  to  buy,  sell  or  mortgage  properties, 
or,  safely  invest  mortgage  funds. 

WM.  T.  B.  ROBERTS  &  SON 

Glenside  at  Station 

ESTABLISHED  1868  OPEN  EVERY  DAY 


19 


The 

Clenzall  Combination 
Laundry  Unit 

What  It  Is:— 

An  Electrically  driven  clothes  wringer 
at  your  command  at  all  times,  indepen- 
dent of  your  washer.  It  will  not  tear 
off,  crush  or  break  buttons,  or  damage 
hooks  and  eyes,  and  it  wrings  the  clothes 
dry. 

1$  An  Electrically  driven  washing  machine 
that  washes  all  your  clothes — the  heav- 
iest woolens  or  lightest  silks — without 
damage  because  it  "Squeezes"  the  water 
thru  them,  the  same  as  you  do  by  hand. 
When  you  are  ready  to  wring  it  lifts  them 
out  of  the  water. 

^  An  Electrically  driven  ironing  machine 
that  makes  ironing  a  simple,  easy  and 
pleasant  task.  It  will  iron  practically  all 
your  clothes  in  less  time  and  with  less  ex- 
pense than  you  can  do  it  by  hand. 

<I  "And  one  Motor  does  it  all.'* 


CLENZALL  PRODUCTS 
COMPANY 

Distributors 
BETHAYRES,  PA. 

Manufactured  by 
The  Klauder-Weldon  Dyeing  Machine  Co.,  Bethayres,  Pa. 


20 


Appoint  us  Executor  in  your  will 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


If  goose  is  large,  remove  bones  after  stewing,  and  discard.  Parboil 
a  beef  tongue  (smoked),  and  cut  in  slices  about  V2  in.  thick;  hard- 
boil  6  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  good  pastry;  put  in  a 
layer  of  goose,  then  some  of  the  chopped  giblets  and  sliced  tongue, 
then  some  sliced  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter, 
and  fill  dish  in  this  same  order.  Add  some  of  the  water  in  which 
goose  was  cooked,  thicken  with  flour.  Cover  dish  with  thick  pastry, 
and  when  baked,  brush  top  with  beaten  egg  white.  In  cold  weather 
this  pie  will  keep  for  a  week,  and  is  very  good. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Stewed  Pigeon 

Stuff  pigeons  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  breadcrumbs  and  chopped 
salt  pork,  seasoned  with  black  pepper.  Sew  up,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  stew  slowly  (covered),  till  tender,  adding  a  slice  of  fat 
bacon  (cut  in  narrow  strips),  for  each  bird,  and  seasoning  with 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  When  done,  remove  birds  and  keep 
warm  while  making  this  sauce — strain  the  gravy,  add  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  1  tblsp.  currant  jelly.  Thicken  with  browned  flour,  bring  to  boil, 
and  pour  over  pigeons. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Turkey 

To  the  ordinary  seasoned  bread  stuffing  add  two  dozen  small 
oysters,  and  moisten  slightly  with  oyster  liquor. — Contributed. 

Turkey  Breast  Stuffed  With  Sweet  Potatoes 

Place  small,  peeled  sweet  potatoes  in  the  breast  of  a  turkey,  and 
lay  breast  downward.  The  potatoes  will  have  a  fine  flavor. — Mrs. 
J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Castor  Brothers 

Coffee  Roasters  -  Tea  Specialists 

4649-51  FRANKFORD  AVENUE 

PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 

PHONE,  FRANKFORD  12-63 


White  Gate  Kennels 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Dobermann  Pinscher  Police  Dog  Puppies 
For  Sale 

Registered  Pedigreed  Stock. 
21 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  GUARANTEED  to  please  or  money  back. 


MEATS 


A  "One-Pan"  Dinner 

Cut  several  stalks  of  cleaned  celery  in  six-inch  lengths,  and  lay 
on  a  3  lb.  steak.  Salt  and  pepper,  tie  steak  around  celery,  and  place 
in  a  covered  roaster.  Pare  6  small  onions,  and  as  many  or  more  of 
both  potatoes  and  turnips  (cut  in  half,  if  large).  Dispose  vegetables 
evenly  around  meat,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little 
parsley,  and  six  or  eight  cloves.  Add  1  qt.  hot  water,  and  roast, 
covered,  in  a  good  oven,  about  IV2  hrs.,  or  until  done,  raising  the 
roaster  a  little  from  the  oven  bottom. — Mrs.  J.  Dyke  Moyer. 

Beef  en  Casserole 

Take  beef  from  the  round  and  cut  in  pieces,  place  in  casserole 
and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Thicken  with  flour,  add  1  tsp.  salt, 
1  saltsp.  of  pepper  and  small  onions  and  carrots  sliced.  Bake  3  or 
4  hrs.  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Howard  Leadbeater. 

Beef  Roasted  on  the  Stove  Top 

Beef  can  be  cooked  on  the  stove  top  in  such  a  manner  as  to  taste 
better  than  if  roasted  in  the  oven.  Put  the  meat  in  a  hot  aluminum 
kettle  or  iron  pan,  with  a  closely-fitting  lid.  Do  not  add  fat  unless 
meat  is  lean.  Fry  as  you  would  steak,  until  very  brown  on  both  sides. 
If  desired  rare,  turn  it  over  several  times,  add  salt,  and  cover,  letting 


M  STEP  WIITO 

Featuring  the  New — displaying  the  smartest  crea- 
tions of  designers,  presenting  distinctive  Fashions  at 
prices  moderate — that  is  the  daily  achievement  at 
Wanamaker  &  Brown's  Woman's  Shop. 

The  fabrics,  style  and  tailoring  reflect 
only  the  newest  and  best  from  Fashion's 
centres.  The  prices  reflect  true  economy. 


Wanamaker.  m>  Hkoww 

Woman's  Shop 

Market  at  Sixth        Second  Floor -West  Section  Philadelphia 


22 


to 


i 


5 

O  ~  " 
CD 


X  O  <  3 

vj  -J  ci  a 


$  3  O  -4- ' 


co  rn  o  —  cm 

-  -  N  N  N 


CM  fO  vo 


5 


cu.    6  a  i 


0  £  ui  C  g 

1  o  <  -  3 

9  <  J  K  (■ 

5  03  0.  (0  6 


—  C\J  <o  CO      CQ  CD  2  — 


Leg  of  Lamb  with  Loin  Chops 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


it  set  until  it  makes  a  gravy.  If  wanted  well  done,  cover  and  let  set 
on  back  of  stove,  watching  closely  to  avoid  burning.  If  it  cooks  dry 
add  a  small  amount  of  water  from  time  to  time.  Make  a  gravy  of 
the  drippings.  This  is  not  a  pot  roast. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Roessler. 

Meat  Loaf 

l1^  lbs.  Hamburg  steak,  1  egg,  1  onion,  1  large  tsp.  salt,  1  tsp. 
pepper,  2  tblsps.  bread  crumbs.  Form  into  loaf,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  dot  with  butter.   Bake  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Clarence  Ely. 


Two  lbs.  beef,  1  lb.  pork,  %  lb.  veal  (all  chopped)  ;  1  cup  mashed 
potatoes,  2  slices  stale  bread  (soak  in  water  and  squeeze  out),  1  egg. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  onion.  Form  into  loaf,  sprinkle 
with  flour  and  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  1  hr.,  putting  a 
little  water  in  the  pan. — Mrs.  E.  Buehler. 


Two  lbs.  chopped  beef,  3  chopped  onions,  2  cups  mashed  potatoes, 
a  little  salt,  1  beaten  egg,  a  little  parsley,  and  sweet  marjoram,  a 
scant  V2  tsp.  Eumford  baking  powder  in  about  %  cup  flour.  Mix, 
form  into  loaf,  and  roast,  putting  a  little  water  in  the  pan. — Mrs.  B. 
Margerum. 


Meat  Loaf 


Meat  Loaf 


MACKIN  MOTORS,  INC. 


DISTRIBUTORS 


855  NORTH  BROAD  STREET 


Poplar  7586 


PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 


Have  You  Ridden  in  the  Moon  6-40? 


$1,295  F.  O.  B.  Factory 


23 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York        Davisville  Roads.,  Willow  Grove 
First — last — and  all  the  time — for  the  best  "eats" 


Meat  Loaf 


Two  pounds  lean  beef,  1  pt.  bread  crumbs,  1  egg;  salt  and 
pepper  and  onion  to  taste.  Run  meat  through  grinder;  add  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  onion.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  slowly 
forty-five  minutes. — Mrs.  George  Nice. 

Meat  Loaf 

Equal  parts  of  under-cut  round  beef  and  moistened  stale  bread. 
Mix  two  thoroughly;  add  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Form  into  loaf, 
cover  with  sliced  bacon  and  bake. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 


Mince  some  rare  roast  beef  or  cold  corned  beef,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  put  in  layers  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  alternating 
with  layers  of  mashed  potatoes,  sprinkled  thickly  with  bits  of  butter. 
For  the  crust,  take  a  large  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  2  tblsps. 
melted  butter,  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  2  cups  of  milk.  Beat  till  very 
light,  then  work  in  enough  flour  to  make  rolling  out  possible.  Place 
thickly  over  the  meat  and  potatoes  after  a  gravy  made  of  warm 
water,  butter,  milk  and  catsup,  mixed  with  cold  gravy  or  drippings 
from  the  roast,  has  been  added  to  the  dish,  and  bake.  This  potato 
crust  is  very  good  and  wholesome,  and  looks  well  if  brushed  with 
beaten  egg  white,  before  serving. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 


Beef  Pie  With  Potato  Crust 


HIS  Company  is  especially  in- 
terested in  your  having  satisfactory 


service. 


If  you  experience  any  difficulty  with 
your  service  or  your  appliances,  let  us 
know  about  it. 


PHILADELPHIA  SUBURBAN 
GAS  AND  ELECTRIC  CO. 


LANSDALE 


JENKINTOWN 


AMBLER 


24 


The  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package  contains  flavoring  and  coloring. 


Boiled  Ham 

When  boiling  ham,  add  a  lemon,  cut  in  slices,  to  the  water.  The 
ham  will  cut  much  better. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Baked  Ham 

Trim  the  edges  of  a  rather  thick  slice  of  ham,  cover  with  sweet 
milk,  and  bake,  covered,  in  a  moderate  oven,  adding  more  milk,  if 
needed,  but  always  warm.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings.  This 
recipe  can  be  varied  by  soaking  the  meat  in  molasses  water  before 
baking. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Liver  Hash 

Cook  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of  flour  together  for  a 
few  minutes,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  turn  in  some  finely- 
chopped  liver.  Season  and  cook  10  minutes.  Just  before  serving,  on 
toast,  add  1  tsp.  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  Harold  S.  Cassidy. 

Breast  of  Mutton  Rolled  and  Stuffed 

Remove  bones  and  surplus  fat  without  breaking  the  skin.  Beat 
with  wet  rolling  pin.  Mix  3  tblsps.  bread  crumbs,  1  tblsp.  finely- 
chopped  suet,  1  tsp.  chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  3 
tblsps.  milk,  lay  it  on  the  meat,  roll  up  and  tie.  Rub  with  flour 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  weigh.  Roast  25  minutes  for  each 
lb.,  and  25  minutes  over.  Serve  hot  with  plain  gravy  or  brown  sauce. 
— Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 


GOLD  MEDAL  MILK 

RICH— FRESH— PURE— WHOLESOME 


SUPPLEE  ICE  CREAM 

SELDOM  EQUALLED— NEVER  EXCELLED 

"Notice  the  Flavor 


25 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  Desserts,  Salads.  Candies,  Puddings,  Ices,  etc. 


Baked  Liver 

Slice  1  lb.  of  calf's  liver,  wash  and  dry,  and  lay  in  well  buttered 
dripping  tin.  Mix  3  large  tblsps.  bread  crumbs,  1  tsp.  flour,  1  tsp. 
chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  small  chopped  onion, 
and  spread  over  the  meat.  Place  strips  of  bacon  on  top,  add  xk  pt. 
water,  and  bake  slowly  about  an  hour. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Mutton  Cutlets,  Baked 

Cut  them  from  the  neck,  and  trim  neatly,  saving  the  bits  of  meat 
and  bone  trimmings  for  gravy.  Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the 
cutlets  (keeping  them  warm  enough  to  keep  butter  from  hardening), 
then  dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  place  in 
dripping  pan,  with  a  very  little  water.  Cover  the  meat  and  bone 
trimmings  with  cold  water,  and  stew,  seasoning  with  sweet  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup.  Strain  when 
nourishment  is  extracted,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  pour  over 
cutlets  when  serving.  (Lamb  can,  of  course,  be  used.) — Mrs.  P.  J. 
Donnelly. 

Veal  Loaf 

IV2  lbs.  pork,  IV2  lbs.  veal,  both  chopped  fine,  3  eggs,  12  broken 
crackers,  small  piece  butter,  1  onion,  chopped,  parsley,  marjoram, 
salt,  pepper,  and  enough  milk  to  moisten.  Mold  into  loaf,  and  baste 
while  baking. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 


Suburban  Realty 


We  Have  the  Largest  List  of 
Homes  For  Sale  on  the 
Reading  Railroad 

"OLDEST  SUBURBAN   FIRM   IN   PHIL  A." 


WM.  H.  WILSON  &  CO. 

1617  Walnut  Street 


26 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE  if  you  would  be  sure  of  results. 


Veal  Birds 

Cut  a  thin  slice  of  veal  in  strips  about  2  in.  wide  and  4  in.  long, 
fold  together,  and  fasten  with  toothpicks.  Fill  with  bread  filling, 
well  moistened  with  butter,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mabel  Haldeman. 


Baked  Veal 

Sprinkle  a  heavy  pan  with  bits  of  butter,  and  thinly-sliced  onion, 
and  lay  in  a  slice  of  veal,  about  %  in.  thick.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dot  with  butter  and  sliced  onion,  and  add  a  little  hot  water. 
Cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  adding  more  water  if  needed.  Make 
a  gravy  of  the  drippings. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 


Jellied  Veal 

Wash  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  cut  in  3  pieces.  Boil  slowly  till  meat 
slips  easily  from  bones,  then  take  from  pot,  remove  all  bones,  and 
chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  thyme  (or  sage,  if 
preferred) .  Put  in  pot  again  with  broth,  and  boil  until  so  nearly  dry 
that  stirring  is  difficult.  Add  juice  of  a  lemon  and  turn  into  a  mold 
until  next  day.  Serve  cold,  sliced,  and  garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs. 
P.  J.  Donnelly. 


GERMANTOWN,  PA.        WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Phones,  Willow  Grove  43  W 

Gladstn  0610,  0611 


Wilson  &  Gardner  Co. 


LEHIGH  COAL 

BUILDING  MATERIALS 

MILL  WORK,  SHEET  ROCK 

LUMBER,  ROOFING 


27 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


VEGETABLES 

Butter  or  Wax  Beans,  Steamed 

One  qt.  of  beans.  Pare  fibre  lightly  from  each  side  of  pods, 
without  breaking  through.  Lay  in  cold  water  V2  hr.  Cut  each  bean 
into  several  slanting  pieces.  Wash,  shake,  and  put,  still-dripping,  into 
a  tightly-covered  pot.  Add  a  great  spoonful  of  warmed  (not  hot) 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  3  tblsps.  (no  more)  of  warm  water. 
Bring  very  slowly  to  a  gentle  simmer,  then  shake  the  pan  upwards 
often,  but  do  not  remove  lid.  Young  beans  will  require  about  40 
minutes.  Dish  without  draining.  String  beans  of  any  kind  are 
best  cooked  this  way — "they  say." — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Beets  a  la  King 

Wash  4  or  5  medium-sized  beets  very  carefully  with  the  palm  of 
the  hand,  in  order  not  to  break  the  skin.  (A  beet  which  has  lost  its 
ruddy  color  through  "bleeding"  is  a  distressing  sight  to  the  diner,  and 
the  flavor  is  never  the  same.)  The  tap-root  should  be  left  undis- 
turbed, and  several  inches  of  the  leaf  end  allowed  to  remain.  Cook 
in  salted  boiling  water  for  about  an  hour,  testing  carefully  with  the 
finger  instead  of  pricking.  When  done,  drop  into  cold  water  and 
remove  skins.  Cut  into  thin  slices,  and  then  into  fancy  shapes  with 
a  vegetable  cutter,  or  into  cubes.  Melt  a  tblsp.  of  butter  and  add 
to  it  a  tblsp.  of  flour.    When  this  sizzles  add  half  a  cup  of  water. 

What  a  pleasant  sight  it  is  to  see  the  smoke  arising  from  a 
man's  own  chimney;  and  how  pleasant  to  hear  the  rain  patter- 
ing on  a  man's  own  roof!  To  secure  a  HOME  SITE  is  the 
stepping  stone  to  SUCCESS. 


GLENSIDE  -:-  ROSLYN 

FERGUSON  &  JOHNSON 
High  Class  SUBURBAN  BUILDING  LOTS 
OFFICE,  3644  N.  BROAD  STREET 

Phone,  Tioga  9095  Send  for  Booklet 

28 


Simply  add  water  and  sugar  to  the  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package. 


Then  add  3  tblsps.  vinegar,  3  tblsps.  cream,  a  half-tsp.  sugar,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  till  smooth  and  pour  over  beets. — 
Contributed. 

Butter-steamed  Cabbage 

Crisp,  tender,  thinly-cut  cabbage  is  required.  Place  in  a  tightly- 
covered  pot  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  and  cook  very  slowly  on 
the  back  of  the  stove,  shaking  often,  or  turning  quickly.  A  little 
salt  may  be  necessary. — A.  L.  M. 

Whipped  Cream  Cabbage 

Wash  a  small,  tender  cabbage  well,  cut  into  narrow  strips,  and 
then  into  inch-long  pieces.  Let  lie  in  iced  water  at  least  an  hour 
before  serving,  then  drain  and  dry  it  well,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt, 
and  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  cream  that  has  been  whipped  very  stiff. 
Turn  and  toss  until  thoroughly  coated,  and  serve  at  once,  with 
crackers  and  cheese. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Corn  Fritters 

To  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  add  1  pt.  of  green  corn  (grated 
or  scraped),  a  little  salt  and  1  cupful  milk.  Add  enough  flour  to  form 
a  good  batter,  with  1  tsp.  Eumford  baking  powder.  Beat  very  hard, 
then  stir  in  the  beaten  whites,  and  drop  the  batter,  by  large  spoonfuls, 
into  hot  lard,  frying  light  brown  on  both  sides. — Mrs.  Edgar  M. 
Davenport. 


BUILD  WITH  LUMBER 


Chas.  F.  Felin  &  Co. 

INCORPORATED 

LUMBER 
MILLWORK 
STAIRWORK 

York  Road  and  Butler  Street 
PHILADELPHIA 


29 


For  Dainty  Delicious  Desserts  use  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Cole  Slaw 

Sprinkle  1  qt.  of  cut  cabbage  with  %  tsp.  salt  and  1  tblsp.  sugar. 
Mix  one  beaten  egg,  %  cup  vinegar,  %  oz.  mustard  and  1  tsp.  corn- 
starch and  cook  until  thick,  then  stir  into  cabbage  well. — Mrs.  Evan 
T.  Kimbel. 

Corn  Pudding 

Six  ears  of  corn,  grated,  (or  1  can),  2  tblsps.  flour,  %  tsp.  Rum- 
ford  baking  powder,  %  tsp.  salt,  1  tblsp.  sugar,  3  eggs,  (beat  sepa- 
rately, and  add  whites  last) ,  large  piece  of  butter.  Add  enough  milk 
to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  bake  until  firm  on  top. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Gilbert. 

Baked  Egg  Plant 

Parboil  eggplant,  cool  and  cut  in  half.    Scoop  out  center,  chop 
fine,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.    Add  1  egg  and 
cup  bread  crumbs,  mix  well,  stuff  into  the  shells,  cover  with  crumbs, 
and  bake  Vz  hr.    Slice  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  S.  M.  Whittaker. 

Baked  Onions 

Boil  medium-sized  onions  15  minutes.  Drain  well,  arrange  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over 
them  this  sauce: 

Stir  2  tblsps.  flour  into  2  tblsps.  heated,  bubbling  butter.  Mix 
well.  Add  a  cupful  of  heated  milk  gradually,  and  beat  to  a  smooth 
cream.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  add  a  beaten  egg. 
Top  the  dish  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  bake,  covered,  20  minutes, 
uncovering  to  brown. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 


COLONIAL 

ICE-CREAM. 


30 


Pink  Coloring  for  fancy  desserts  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE. 


THE  POTATO 

Dietitians  disagree  as  to  the  food-value  of  the  potato,  but 
rightly  or  wrongly,  it  still  remains  the  most-used  of  vegetables. 

Despite  this  fact,  however,  all  so-called  "cooks"  cannot 
properly  present  it,  many  dishes  of  even  "plain-boiled,"  mashed 
or  fried  potatoes  being  unworthy  of  entertainment  by  self- 
respecting  stomachs. 

"Marion  Harland" — long  an  authority  on  matters  culinary — 
taught,  in  substance,  the  following  A,  B,  C's  of  Potato  Lore. 

Parings  should  be  thin;  food-value,  comeliness,  and  economy 
all  demand  it.  The  wise  cook  will  also  prepare  more  of  the 
tubers  than  are  immediately  needed,  thus  saving  not  only  next 
day's  patience  and  fuel,  but  forehandedly  providing  the  basis 
for  many  palatable  "left-over"  dishes. 

Boiled  Potatoes  a  la  Harland 

In  the  Skin  or  Peeled. — Drop  uniform-sized  potatoes  in  slightly 
salted,  boiling  water,  and  boil  fast  until  a  fork  easily  pierces  the 
largest.  Throw  off  water  immediately,  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  and 
set  the  pot,  uncovered,  at  the  back  of  range,  for  the  potatoes  to 
"dry  off."    If  boiled  in  the  skins,  serve  that  way. 

Mashed  Potatoes  a  la  Harland 

Boil  and  mash  thoroughly,  and  for  at  least  5  minutes,  whip  to  a 
foamy  cream  with  rich,  hot  milk  and  melted  butter. 


DR.  G.  W.  SPIES,  Eyesight  Specialist 

410  YORK  ROAD  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

Krewson  Building 

9.15  A.  M.  to  5  P.  M.  Daily;  Tues.  and  Sat.  Ev'gs,  7  P.  M.  to  9  P.  M. 
GLENSIDE,  Next  Nixon  Theatre 
Wed.  and  Fri.  Evenings,  6.30  P.  M.  to  9  P,  M. 

8  A.  M.  to  9  A.  M.  Daily 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

WILLIAM  H.  KINSEY 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


32  VOLTS  1 10  VOLTS 

Electric  Light  and  Power  on  Farm 
Pumps  Incubators 

L.  C.  MADSEN  -:-  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

31 


We  act  as  Executor  and  Administrator 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


French  Fried  Potatoes  a  la  Harland 

Fried  potatoes  should  never  be  greasy.  For  "French  frying," 
peel,  cut  in  strips,  and  lay  in  iced-water  1  hr.  Drain  and  dry  thor- 
oughly, and  fry  in  deep  fat,  which  has  been  brought  to  boiling  heat 
gradually.  Test  fat  before  frying  with  a  bit  of  the  potato.  If  it 
rises  to  the  top  and  browns  almost  immediately,  the  fat  is  right. 
Drain  the  potatoes  in  heated  tissue  paper,  and  serve  hot. 

French  Fritters 

Boil  6  large  potatoes  in  salt  water,  and  mash.  Add  1  cup  milk 
and  1  pt.  flour,  stir,  and  boil  5  min.,  covered.  In  a  hot  pan  heat 
lard,  (as  for  oysters  or  crullers,)  and  drop  the  mixture  in  by  spoon- 
fuls, first  dipping  the  spoon  in  hot  lard.  Lay  fritters  on  a  platter 
after  frying,  and  pour  over  them  the  frying  lard  to  which  a  little 
onion  and  milk  has  been  added. — Paris  Cooking  School.  (By  Mrs. 
A.  Arenz). 

Potato  Balls 

Rice  2  cups  of  hot  boiled  potatoes,  and  mix  with  2  tblsps.  butter, 
%  cup  grated  cheese,  2  tblsps.  milk  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Season 
to  taste  and  fry. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Duchess  Potatoes 

Boil  6  potatoes  and  put  through  sieve.  Add  1  gill  cream,  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  When 
smooth  and  well-mixed,  form,  by  tablespoonfuls,  into  rounds,  brush 
with  beaten  egg  and  brown  lightly  in  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  J.  Edsall. 


ESTIMATES  GIVEN 

HAROLD  S.  CASSIDY 

DECORATING 
PAPERHANGING  AND  PAINTING 

DALLAS  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE.  PA. 


J.  DISTLER  G.  UEBELE 

210  Loney  Street  7954  Church  Road 

DISTLER  &  UEBELE 

Contractors  and  Builders 


Bell  Phone 


32 


FOX  CHASE 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
Ail  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Scalloped  Potatoes 

Place  a  layer,  about  IV2  inches  deep,  of  sliced  raw  potatoes  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish,  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and 
bits  of  butter,  repeating  this  layer  process  till  dish  is  full.  Top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  and  pour  several  cups  of  warm  milk 
around  sides,  adding  more  while  baking,  if  necessary,  but  always 
warm.    Cover  dish  till  done,  then  uncover  to  brown. — L.  W.  M. 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Bake  8  large  potatoes.  Cut  off  tops,  and  carefully  scoop  out 
insides,  saving  the  skin  "cups."  Mash  pulp  smooth,  add  2  tblsps. 
butter,  1  gill  cream,  2  tsps.  finely  minced  onion,  1  tsp.  minced  parsley, 
and  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Work  smooth  and  fold  in 
lightly  the  stiffened  whites  of  2  eggs.  Place  mixture  in  the  skins, 
heaping  high,  and  brown  lightly  in  oven. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

"Sunday  Breakfast" 

Dice  4  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  mix  with  2  well  beaten  eggs  and 
3  tblsps.  milk.  Season,  put  in  well-greased  pan  and  fry  golden  brown. 
Fold  like  omelet,  and  serve  on  hot  platter,  garnished  with  bacon  and 
parsley. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Candied 

Parboil,  peel,  and  quarter  lengthwise.  Place  in  baking  dish  and 
pour  over  them  a  mixture  of  table  syrup  and  butter.  Sprinkle  lightly 
with  flour,  and  well  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  brown. — Mrs. 
John  E.  Howarth. 


YOU  CAN'T  FOOL  THE  PALATE 

Taste  is  the  food  test,  and  if  kept  satisfied  you  need  never 
worry  about  cut  price  competition. 

Burk's  Meat  Delicacies 

are  dependable 

SEASONABLE:— Lunch  Roll,  Meat  Loaf,  Sardellen,  Frank- 
furters, Bolognas,  Hams,  Butternut  Bacon,  Pastry  Lard. 


GUSTAV  BECKER 

CATERER 

Correct  Service — Reasonable  Rates 
4310  FRANKFORD  AVE.  FRANKFORD,  PA. 


33 


Try  KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  with  the  Lemon  Flavor  enclosed. 


Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  small  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  brown  very  slowly  on  the 
back  of  range,  in  a  mixture  of  melted  butter  and  about  twice  as  much 
brown  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Sweet  Potato  Puff 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for  10  minutes  to 
dry  out.  Mash  2  cupfuls  and  add  3  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  tblsps 
melted  butter,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Beat  hard  and  bake  in  greased 
dish.    Nice  with  roast  pork. — Contributed. 

Rice  Croquettes 

Boil  1  cup  rice  dry,  in  2  cups  water,  then  add  enough  warm  milk 
to  cook  it  soft.  Add  a  little  salt,  2  tsps.  sugar,  and  piece  of  butter. 
When  cold,  add  a  beaten  egg,  dip  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry. — Mrs.  W. 

E.  PUGH. 

Rice  Croquettes 

One  large  cup  of  rice,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  water.  Boil  until  tender, 
then  add  a  little  salt,  1  tsp.  butter ;  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  then  add 
2  well-beaten  eggs  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Stir  until  thick: 
when  cold,  mould  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. — Mrs.  Henry  J.  Edsall. 

Spanish  Rice 

Six  tblsps.  raw  rice,  3  tblsps.  chopped  onion,  2  tblsps.  butter, 
%  green  pepper,  chopped,  %  cup  grated  cheese,  1  cup  boiling  water, 
2  cups  stewed  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Mix  well,  and  bake 


W.  C.  FLECK  &  BRO. 

HARDWARE 

JENKINTOWN  PENNSYLVANIA 


CHELTEN  HILLS  CEMETERY 

Non-sectarian 
EAST  WASHINGTON  LANE,  GERMANTOWN 
Lawn  Plan  Maintenance  Fund      Perpetual  Care  Fund 

Choice  Family  Burial  Plots,  Moderate  Prices 

Cash  or  Easy  Payments 
OFFICE,  1509  ARCH  STREET 
Phone,  Spruce  2595  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

34 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  dainty  desserts  for  dainty  people. 


in  buttered  dish  in  moderate  oven  (about  1  hour)  till  tender.  Stir 
often. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 

Boiled  Spinach 

Boil  in  salted  water  %  hr.,  drain  thoroughly  and  chop  fine.  Melt 
2  tblsps.  butter,  stir  in  1  tblsp.  flour  smoothly,  and  add  a  pinch,  each, 
of  salt  and  sugar.  Stir  over  fire  a  few  minutes,  add  spinach,  1  cup 
stock  or  milk,  and  cook  till  dry.  Add  1  tblsp.  cream  or  milk  to  a 
beaten  egg  yolk,  stir  into  spinach,  heat  well  and  serve  in  hot  dish. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Eobinson. 

Steamed  Spinach 

Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  allowing  to  soak  in  cold 
water  for  some  time.  Then  shake,  and  with  the  moisture  still  clinging 
to  it,  put  in  a  tightly-covered  pot.  Add  no  water — the  moisture  and 
juice  are  sufficient.  Cook  slowly  till  done,  about  20  minutes,  stirring 
well  several  times.  Work  a  large  lump  of  butter  through,  and  add  a 
little  salt,  if  needed.  This  method  of  cooking  retains  all  the  nutritive 
qualities  and  valuable  salts. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Wash  tomatoes  and  scoop  out  the  seeds,  at  stem  end.  Cook  1 
tblsp.  finely-chopped  onion  in  4  tblsps.  melted  butter  until  tender,  add 
^4  cup  water,  and  enough  bread  to  thicken,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sugar.  Stuff  this  into  the  tomatoes,  and  bake  tender  in 
moderate  oven.  Eetain  their  shape  while  cooking. — Mrs.  Wm.  E. 
Robinson. 


Samson  Trucks  &  Tractors  :  Traylor  Trucks 
Studebaker  and  Chevrolet  Automobiles 

Buy  your  Car  from  us  and  say: 
"I  bank  the  difference  every  day'* 

RAYMOND  A.  ERWIN 

SHOW    ROOM    AND    ACCESSORY  STORE 
9533-35  BUSTLETON  AVE.  BUSTLETON,  PHILA. 

BRANCH  OFFICES: 

OAK  LANE,  OPPOSITE  STATION 
BOULEVARD,  COR.  RISING  SUN  AVE. 

J.  T.  JACKSON  CO. 
Realtors 

FRANK  P.  FELTON,  Jr.,  Pres. 

EDWIN  STOTT,  Vice-Pres  CHESTNUT  and  13th,  S.  E.  Cor. 
JAY  D.  ROY,  Sec  y  PHILADELPHIA 


35 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Roads,  Willow  Grove 
Market  daily  at  Sill's,  and  become  a  bank  depositor 


Baked  Tomatoes 

Cut  the  tops  from  large,  firm  tomatoes,  and  remove  insides  care- 
fully, saving  the  outside  "cup."  Chop  half  the  pulp  and  add  as  much 
minced  boiled  ham,  and  2  tblsps.  bread  crumbs.  Season  to  taste  and 
place  in  the  tomato  cups,  and  dot  with  butter.  Put  in  a  pan  with 
a  little  hot  water  or  soup  stock  and  bake  until  tender,  covering  at 
the  first. — L.  W.  M. 

Canned  Tomatoes,  Fried 

Mix  1  pt.  canned  tomatoes,  2  tblsps.  butter  (melted),  1  tsp.  salt, 
%  tsp.  pepper,  V2  tsp.  sugar,  and  1  cupful  bread  flour,  (sifted  with  1 
tsp.  Eumf ord  baking  powder) .  Fry  by  spoonfuls,  some  distance  apart 
on  a  hot  pan  containing  a  little  melted  fat. — Contributed. 

Creamed  Tomatoes 

Cut  firm  tomatoes  in  thick  slices  and  fry  tender  in  butter.  Add 
1  tblsp.  of  flour  to  1  tblsp.  melted  butter,  and  bring  to  bubbling-point, 
then  add  V2  pt.  mixed  cream  and  milk.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  the  tomatoes  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  the 
sauce  over  them. — Letitia  Roberts. 

Raw  Tomatoes  and  Cucumbers 

Carefully  remove  the  pulp  from  firm  tomatoes,  chop,  chill,  and 
mix  with  ice-cold  cucumber  dice.  Stuff  into  the  cold  tomato  shells, 
and  top  with  mayonnaise.    Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. — Letitia  Roberts. 


YOU  CAN  GET  ALMOST  ANY 

MAGAZINE 

AT 

KELLNER'S  LUNCH  ROOM 

P.  R.  T.  Waiting  Room,  Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

Single  Copies  or  by  Yearly  Subscription 

STORE  OPEN  DAY  AND  NIGHT 
JOBBING  AND  ALTERATIONS  ESTIMATES  FURNISHED 

S.  R.  KREWSON  &  SON 

Carpenters  and 
Builders 

BELL  PHONE  ASHBOURNE,  PA. 


See  that  the  name  K-N-O-X  is  on  each  package  of  gelatine  you  buy. 


Raw  Tomatoes  With  Whipped  Cream 

Pare  large,  smooth  tomatoes  carefully  (never  scald).  Set  on  ice 
until  chilled  to  the  heart.  When  ready  to  serve,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
salt  and  paprika,  and  heap  with  whipped  cream.  This  makes  a 
delicious  summer  entree.  Warm  buttered  crackers  and  cream  cheese 
make  a  fitting  accompaniment. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Drain  %  large  can  of  tomatoes,  (or  the  same  amount  of  fresh), 
add  1  onion  cut  fine,  1  green  pepper,  if  available,  (chopped),  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  layers  in  a  casserole,  sprinkling  each  layer 
with  cubes  of  stale  bread  (use  2  cups  in  all),  and  bits  of  butter. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  V2  hour. — Leona  V.  Howard. 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Brown  a  little  thinly-sliced  onion  in  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter, 
add  to  a  quart  of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  and  cook  fast  about  20 
minutes.  (Tomatoes  should  be  cooked  in  aluminum  or  agate  pots, — 
never  in  tin.)  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  and  thicken  with 
either  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  or  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs.  Stew 
5  minutes  longer. — A.  L.  W. 

Tomato  Omelet 

Soak  a  cupful  of  dry  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup  milk  and  stir  into  5 
beaten  eggs.  Add  four  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped,  season,  and  cook 
in  2  tblsps.  of  melted  butter,  until  set.  Serve  at  once,  with  tomato 
sauce. — Contributed. 


EDWARD  BATES 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BUILDER 

HATBORO  MANOR,  HATBORO,  PA. 

BELL  PHONE,  25-R 


BELL  PHONE,  Hatboro  62-J         KEYSTONE  PHONE,  Hatboro  26-A 


N.  E.  WALTON 

FUNERAL  DIRECTOR 


AUTO  SERVICE 


37 


HATBORO,  PA. 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 


Chicken  Salad 


One  pint  each  of  cold  chicken  and  celery,  or  half  as  much  celery 
if  not  fond  of  it.  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise.  Lettuce  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  hard-boiled.  Cut  the  chicken  into  dice.  Scrape, 
wash  and  cut  celery  in  small  pieces.  Mix  with  dressing  and  keep  on 
ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Arrange  salad  in  dish,  garnish  with  lettuce 
or  celery  leaves.  On  top  place  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  into  rings 
and  lay  so  as  to  form  a  chain. — Mrs.  Geo.  Nice. 


To  2  qts.  of  crab  meat  and  6  hard  boiled  eggs  add  3  large  green 
peppers  and  2  stalks  of  celery  (both  chopped  fine),  2  onions,  juice 
of  3  lemons,  and  1  cup  of  olive  oil.  Cover  with  this  mayonnaise — 4 
egg  yolks  beaten  with  olive  oil  to  desired  thickness,  seasoned  with 
salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. — Eva  M.  Duffield. 


On  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves,  lay  slices  of  cold  cooked  meat,  to- 
matoes, cucumbers,  sweet  green  peppers  and  apples.  Garnish  with 
water  cress  or  parsley,  olives  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  and  top 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cooked  string  beans  and  beets — in  fact, 
almost  any  cold  cooked  vegetable — may  be  included  in  this  good  hot- 
weather  dish. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 


"  W  A  NT  ED"  —  Your  Entire  Family  Wash 


Crab  Salad 


"Entire  Luncheon"  Salad 


For 
which  we 
offer  you 
an  eco- 
nomical 
plan  that 
will  elim- 
inate 


wash- 
day 


Write  for 
literature 
or  better 
still  have 
our  route 
man  call 


and 
explain 


All  Work  Guaranteed 


Estimates  Cheerfully  Given 


HARRY  S.  PHIFER 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BUILDER 


AVENUE  A,  GLENSIDE,  PA. 


Mail  Orders  Promptly  Attended  To 


B.  O.  &  O.  E.  TEGGE 


Apothecaries 


GLENSIDE,  PA.  AND  HADDON  HEIGHTS,  N.  J. 


38 


Where  recipes  call  for  Gelatine  use  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Date  and  Cheese  Salad 

Take  stones  from  dates  and  fill  with  cream  cheese,  moistened  with 
milk  to  make  thin  paste. — Mrs.  Harold  S.  Cassidy. 

Fruit  Salad 

Cut  pineapple,  oranges,  bananas,  and  white  grapes  in  small 
pieces,  mix  well,  and  let  stand  2  hrs. 

Dressing — 2  tblsps.  sugar,  %  tsp.  salt,  1  large  tsp.  cornstarch,  2 
tblsps.  butter,  1  egg,  (beaten  very  light) ,  %  cup  cream.  Boil  till  thick, 
and  add  %  cup  lemon  juice.  When  cold,  and  just  before  serving,  fold 
in  %  pt.  of  whipped  cream.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  Wm.  H. 
White,  Jr. 

Luncheon  Salad 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  1  cup  cold  water,  1  Vi  cups 
boiling  water,  cup  lemon  juice,  %  cup  sugar,  3  tart  apples,  1  cup 
celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  %  cup  pecan  nut  meats.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add  lemon 
juice  and  sugar.  When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  apples,  sliced 
in  small  pieces,  chopped  celery  and  broken  nut  meats.  Turn  into  mold, 
first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Accompany  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  This  mixture  may  be  served  in  cases  made  from  bright  red 
apples. 


SAINT  ANNE'S  CHURCH  (Episcopal) 

WELSH  ROAD,  AT  THE  YORK  ROAD  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

The  Rectory,  Moreland  Ave.,  Hatboro — Phone,  Hatboro  136-W 
Sunday  Services: — 9.30  A.  M.,  Church  School;   10.30  A.  M.,  Service 
and    Sermon;    7.30    P.  M.,    Service    and  Sermon, 
(October  to  May). 
Holy  Communion,  Second  Sunday  in  each  month,  at  10.30  A.  M. 


DIANA   Hand   Knitting  YARNS 

Save  Money — Buy  Direct 

ROSLYN  WORSTED  YARN  COMPANY 

ROSLYN,  PA. 

Send  for  Samples  Mail  Orders  Only 


BLACK  CAT 

809  E.  Greenwood  Avenue,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 

We  are  always  on  the  lookout  for 
Novelties  in  Toys,  Favors,  Games,  etc. 
Dennison's  Goods,  Stationery,  School 
Supplies  and — Pure  Candies. 

39 


FOUR  PINTS  of  jelly  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Oyster  Salad 

Kub  a  salad  bowl  with  an  onion,  and  put  in  1  doz.  cooled  fried 
oysters,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  12  heaping  tblsps.  of  diced  celery. 
Make  a  dressing  of  2  egg  yolks,  salt,  paprika,  mustard,  sugar,  3 
tblsps.  of  olive  oil  and  V2  cup  of  whipped  sour  cream.  Pour  over  the 
oysters  and  serve  very  cold. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Oyster  Salad 

Wash  and  dry  1  pt.  of  oysters,  add  2  cups  of  celery,  and  mix 
together  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  sprinkle  with 
sliced  peppers  or  pimentos. — Mrs.  David  J.  Nolan. 

Perfection  Salad 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  V2  cup  cold  water,  V2 
cup  mild  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  2  cups  boiling  water, 
%  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  cup  cabbage,  finely  shredded,  2 
cups  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  pimentos,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Soak 
gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling- 
water,  sugar,  and  salt.  Strain,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen, 
add  remaining  ingredients.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  chill.  Remove  to  bed  of  lettuce  or  endive.  Garnish  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  or  cut  in  cubes,  and  serve  in  cases  made  of  red  or 
green  peppers,  or  turn  into  molds  lined  with  canned  pimentos.  A 
delicious  accompaniment  to  cold  sliced  chicken  or  veal. 


Estimates  Given  Phone,  Willow  Grove  135  Prompt  Attention 

ALBERT  S.  HEATH 

Roofing     :    Spouting     :    Heaters     :  Ranges 

Residence  on  Old  York  Road  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


JOHN  J.  RE  ILLY  JOS.  R.  LANNON 

LANNON  &  REILLY 
Realtors 

5913  N.  BROAD  STREET,  PHILADELPHIA 


DAVID  J.  ARMON'S  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

WEST  AVENUE  NEAR  YORK  ROAD 
JENKINTOWN 

40 


I : 

KNOX  GELATINE  solves  the  problem  of  "What  to  have  for  dessert?" 

Potato  Salad 

To  1  qt.  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  fine,  add  celery  or  celery- 
seed,  and  a  tiny  bit  of  onion.  Make  a  dressing  of  2  eggs  and  1  level 
tblsp.  of  flour,  beaten  together  till  smooth,  1  cup  cream  and  milk 
mixed,  3  tblsps.  sugar,  6  tblsps.  vinegar,  pinch  of  nuistard,  dissolved 
in  vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bring  to  a  boil  in  double 
boiler,  removing  from  the  fire  in  a  few  seconds. — Mrs.  Edward  Carl. 

Tomato  and  Celery  Salad 

Cook  2V2  cupfuls  of  canned  tomatoes,  chopped  onion,  celery,  and 
a  little  parsley  for  15  minutes.  Season  to  taste.  Strain  and  add  XA 
package  of  Knox's  gelatine,  softened  in  %  cup  of  water.  Stir  till 
gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  turn  into  mold.  When  formed  and  ready 
to  serve,  turn  out,  cut  in  cubes,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  and  chopped  celery. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Peel  6  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and  remove 
the  seeds  carefully.  Peel  2  cucumbers,  cut  into  dice,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Set  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  on  ice.  Mix  %  tsp. 
salt,  1  tsp.  flour,  1  tsp.  mustard,  and  2  tblsps.  sugar,  with  2  tblsps. 
butter,  add  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  %  cup  of  cream,  and  XA  cup  vinegar. 
Cook  over  hot  water  till  mixture  thickens.  Strain  if  necessary  and 
chill.  When  ready  to  serve  mix  V2  the  dressing  with  the  diced  cucum- 
bers, fill  into  the  tomato  cups,  and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  the  dressing. 
Sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. — 
L.  W.  M. 

Compliments  of 

JOHN  HEDGES 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

THOMAS  LYONS 

Watches,  Clocks,  Jewelry  and  Silverware 
DOYLESTOWN,  PENNA. 

Repairing  a  Specialty 


Estimates  Given  Repair  Work  Attended  To 

DANIEL  CARTER 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BUILDER 

HATBORO,  PENNA. 
41 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  economical— FOUR  PINTS  in  each  package. 


Tuna  Fish  Salad 

Chop  1  can  of  tuna  fish,  1  tblsp.  of  onion  and  2  tblsps.  of  green 
peppers  very  fine,  and  mix  well.  Add  salt  to  taste  and  about  %  cup 
of  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  or  stuff  into  ripe  tomatoes. — 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Shrimp  Salad 

Boil  4  medium-sized  potatoes,  in  the  skin,  peel  and  dice  when  cool, 
and  add  to  washed  and  dried  shrimps  (a  15c  can).  Add  a  cupful  of 
mayonnaise  dressing,  an  onion  diced,  2  stalks  of  diced  celery,  and  1 
cupful  of  ripe  olives,  cut  from  the  stones.  Chill  and  serve  garnished 
with  slices  of  hardboiled  egg,  parsley,  and  a  few  whole  olives. — Mrs. 
Howard  Leadbeater. 

French  Dressing 

Six  tblsps.  olive  oil,  3  tblsps.  vinegar,  2  saltsps.  salt,  and  1  of 
pepper.  Mix  well.  Rub  the  inside  of  the  salad  bowl  with  a  garlic 
clove  before  serving. — L.  W.  M. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Put  a  well-drained,  cold  egg  yolk  in  a  chilled  bowl,  add  1  tsp. 
lemon  juice;  stir  well  with  silver  fork.  Add  olive  oil,  a  few  drops  at 
a  time,  stirring  steadily.  As  dressing  thickens,  add  oil  more  freely; 
use  Vz  pt.  in  all.  Season  with  a  dash  of  paprika,  %  tsp.  salt,  1  saltsp. 
mustard,  and  1  tblsp.  vinegar. — Contributed. 


Chambers  Fireless  Gas  Range  k^nd^on^the^market 
<^JL  TURN   OFF  THE  GAS 

JH?  rZZZL„     AND    G0  AWAY 

ft    \  v\  H'                m    You  can  get  a  meal  ready,  put  it  in  the 

I  \  _Jpv  U\  q  P 1  Chambers  Fireless,  go  about  your  other  work 

A  rT?vO>\y  iftMBWgftWB  K^hdhkiI  >!   dress  f°r  a  trip  to  the  shops  or  theatre, 

/  j^^^^^^j^l'  g and  ^  when  you're  ready  turn  off  the  gas  and 

fV^^~  ^PPfr^PhBEjpffX     ®       I         Time    or   Cash  Payments 

/  "      ------  ■Lg, ij,r«jil   Come  in  and  See  Demonstration 

j  |HHHKMHHHBMHESSHHCuts  Gas  Bills  Lessens  Labor 

PHILA.  FURNACE  AND  SUPPLY  CO. 

260  SOUTH  15TH  STREET  Phones:  Spruce  2775-2776 

PHILADELPHIA'S  FIRST  PIPELESS  ENGINEERS 


"The  Proof  of  the  Cooking  is  in  the  Eating" 

And  when  it  comes  to  Real  Estate  service,  the  real  test  of  value  is 
found  in  the  results  obtained. 

Cornell  service  has  been  proved  right  by  a  big  army  of  satisfied 
clients — those  who  have  had  their  properties  sold  at  the  right  price — 
and  those  who  have  bought  properties  at  the  right  price. 

Just  ask  anyone  who  has  been  dealing  with  Cornell. 

REAL  SERVICE  IN  REAL  ESTATE — 
and  that  means  buying,  selling,  renting,  willing,  mortgages,  etc.  In- 
surance of  all  kinds  with  prompt  settlements. 

FOR  RESULTS  SEE  CORNELL  FIRST 

WARREN  M.  CORNELL,  Hatboro,  Pa. 


42 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Place  a  cold,  fresh  egg  yolk  in  a  bowl,  add  1  tblsp.  vinegar,  2 
tsps.  salt  and  1  tsp.  mustard,  and  mix  briskly  for  a  minute  with  a 
small  wire  whisk,  then  add  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  till  a  gill  is  used, 
stirring  constantly.  Four  minutes  after  adding  oil,  add  1  small 
bunch  of  chopped  parsley,  2  small  garlic  onions,  grated,  and  the  juice 
of  xk  lemon.  Mix  sharply  for  a  minute,  and  keep  on  ice  till  used. — 
Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Boiled  Dressing 

One  egg  yolk,  %  cup  water,  V2  cup  vinegar,  x/4  tsp.  salt,  Vz  tsp. 
mustard,  V2  tsp.  butter,  2  tblsps.  flour  and  2  tblsps.  sugar.  Cook  all 
together  until  mixture  clears,  and  also  stiffens  a  little.  This  dressing 
will  keep  for  weeks. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Boiled  Dressing 

Mix  1  tblsp.  salt,  1  tblsp.  mustard,  1  tblsp.  flour,  2  tblsps.  sugar, 
and  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  3  eggs,  and 
add  1  cup  of  vinegar  gradually,  then  add  to  the  first  mixture,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Miller. 

Boiled  Dressing 

Boil  together  2  eggs,  1  tsp.  salt,  1  tsp.  sugar,  1  tsp.  mustard,  1 
large  spoonful  butter  and  %  cup  vinegar.  Let  stand  till  cold,  and 
before  using  add  %  cup  of  cream. — Mrs.  Raymond  Crawford. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

STATE  SENATOR 

FLETCHER  W.  STITES 

Narberth,  Pa. 


JOSEPH  J.  McGOLDRICK 

Undertaker 
JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

and 

27  E.  Gravers  Lane,  Chestnut  Hill 


Try  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipes  found  in  this  book. 
43 


STUDEBAKER— The  World's  Largest 
Builders  of  Six  Cylinder  Motor  Cars 


ROGERS  MOTORS 
Jenkintown,  Pa. 


Cream  Dressing 

Beat  3  eggs  together,  till  very  light;  add  1  tsp.  salt,  pinch  of  red 
pepper,  Vz  saltsp.  of  mustard,  mixed  with  a  little  water,  and  last,  4 
tblsps.  of  rich,  sweet  cream. — Contributed. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

Beat  together  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch;  add  V2  cup  sour  cream,  and  V2  cup  vinegar,  and 
boil  in  a  double  boiler  three  to  five  minutes.  Salt  to  taste. — Mrs. 
Emma  H.  McCartney. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

Beat  a  cupful  of  rich,  very  cold  sour  cream  hard  for  five  minutes, 
adding,  while  beating,  1  tblsp.  powdered  sugar  and  V2  tsp.  lemon 
juice.  Delicious  with  thinly-sliced,  chilled  cucumbers. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre 
Moyer. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

To  1  stiffly-beaten  egg  white  add  gradually  1  tblsp.  lemon  juice,  3 
tblsps.  orange  juice,  3  heaping  tblsps.  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
till  creamy. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Peanut  Butter  Salad  Dressing 

One-half  cup  sour  cream,  2  tblsps.  Wilmar  peanut  butter,  2  tblsps. 
vinegar,  1  egg,  V2  tblsp.  sugar,  V2  tblsp.  salt,  rA  tblsp.  mustard,  % 
tspn.  paprika.   Mix  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened. 


First  and  Second  Mortgage  Funds.  Bell  Phone 

Acknowledgments  and  Affidavits  Taken 

PERRY  GREENSPAN,  Real  Estate 
Roslyn,  Pa. 

Between  Glenside  and  Willow  Grove 
Automobile  and  Fire  Insurance  Notary  Public 


Compliments  of 

THE  BETSY  ROSS  MFG.  CO. 
Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


Bell  Phone,  Willow  Grove  71  W 
Keystone  Phone,  Hatboro  64-Y 

JACK'S  RESTAURANT  COMPANY 

Good  Place  to  Eat 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA.  NESHAMINY  FALLS  GROVE,  PA. 


DESSERTS  can  be  made  in  a  short  time  with  KNOX  GELATINE. 

44 


We  serve  as  Trustee,  Guardian,  etc. 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


Quick-Made  Salad  Dressing 

Mash  a  large,  fresh-boiled  potato  while  hot,  and  add  a  heaping 
tsp.  of  butter.  Mix  1  tsp.  of  sugar,  %  tsp.  of  salt,  1  tsp.  of  made 
mustard  (or  V2  tsp.  of  dry  mustard) ,  and  2  tblsps.  of  vinegar.  Add 
to  the  mashed  potato,  with  more  vinegar  or  water  as  needed  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Roessler. 

Russian  Salad  Dressing 

Mix  4  cups  of  mayonnaise  with  2  cups  of  chili  sauce  and  1  small 
can  of  pimentos.  Chop  3  tsps.  of  green  peppers,  V2  tsp.  of  onion 
and  %  tsp.  of  parsley  very  fine,  and  add. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Salad  Dressing 

Mix  1  egg  (beaten  well)  V2  cup  sugar,  1  tblsp.  mustard  (dry),  1 
tsp.  salt,  1  tblsp.  flour,  with  a  little  cold  water,  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Beat  with  egg  beater  in  a  pint  bowl ;  fill  up  bowl  with  V2  milk 
and  V2  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick;  stir  constantly  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing. Thin  with  milk  when  ready  for  use.  This  is  very  economical,  as 
it  keeps  until  used. — Mrs.  John  S.  Mason. 

Salad  Dressing 

Mix  a  tblsp.  of  flour  with  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  add  a 
beaten  egg,  1  cup  of  water,  2  tsps.  of  sugar,  1  tsp.  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  of  the  desired  consistency,  add- 
ing %  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  little  mustard  mixed  with  water,  after 
the  mixture  comes  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Ritchie. 


SILBERMAN'S 

For 

Clothing,  Shoes,  Hats  and  Furnishings 

"Always  the  Best" 
603-7  WEST  AVENUE,  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 


A.  L.  Powell— A.  H.  Powell  Bell  Phone,  152 

THE  ELECTRIC  SHOP 

"Everything  Electrical" 

YORK  ROAD        -        HATBORO,  PA. 

Next  to  Almar  Store 
Storage  Battery  Service  Station  Houae  Wiring  Our  Specialty 


Phone,  Hatboro  74-J 

H.  N.  SHORDAY  &  SON 

Quality  Meat  Market 
YORK  AND  MONTGOMERY  AVES.,  HATBORO,  PA. 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE— the  two  quart  package. 
45 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  a  transparent,  tender,  quivering  jelly. 


Salad  Dressing 

Mix  1  tsp.  of  salt  and  6  tsps.  of  flour,  both  slightly  heaped,  with 
%  tsp.  of  mustard,  and  6  or  more  tsps.  of  sugar.  Add  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  1  or  2  eggs.  Stir  the  mixture  into 
1  cup  of  water  and  1  cup  of  cider  vinegar  that  has  been  brought  to 
a  boil,  and  cook  about  5  minutes.  Add  either  1  tblsp.  of  butter,  while 
hot,  or  add  oil  when  mixture  has  cooled.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater, 
and  if  too  thick,  add  more  vinegar  and  water. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S. 
Roessler. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing 

One-half  cup  olive  oil,  juice  of  %  lemon,  juice  of  Vz  orange,  1  tsp. 
grated  onion,  8  sliced  olives,  1  tblsp.  chopped  parsley,  XA  tsp.  salt,  XA 
tsp.  paprika,  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce,  XA  tsp.  mustard.  Shake  in 
glass  jar,  with  close  top,  till  smooth  and  slightly  thickened. — Con- 
tributed. 

Salad  Dressing  Without  Oil 

Beat  2  eggs  light  and  add  2  tblsps.  of  vinegar,  1  tblsp.  of  water,  a 
small  pinch  of  salt,  butter  (size  of  an  egg),  and  1  tsp.  of  sugar.  Cook 
over  a  slow  fire  till  mixture  thickens. — Mrs.  Katherine  Brown. 

Salad  Dressing 

Mix  2  tblsps.  flour,  2  tblsps.  sugar,  1  tsp.  mustard,  and  Vn  tsp. 
salt.  Add  1  egg,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  vinegar  and  a  lump  of  butter  or 
olive  oil.  Boil  in  a  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens. — Mrs.  Eva  F. 
Stuckert. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

WILLIAM  E.  COOPER 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


S.  S.  GEHMAN,  Prop. 

Bread  Is  Your  Best  Food — Eat  More  Of  It 

AMBLER  BAKING  COMPANY 

AMBLER,  PA. 

HARVEST  BREAD 
French  Pastry,  Sweet  Buns,  Rolls  and  Cakes — -All  Kinds 


Bakery,  211-213  N.  Main  St.     Branch  Store,  413  Butler  Ave. 

Bell  Phone,  Ambler  4  7 1  Bell  Phone,  Ambler  3  5  0-J 

46 


PIES,  PUDDINGS  AND  OTHER  SWEETS 


PASTRY 

Good  materials  alone  will  never  make  good  pastry.  The 
real  secret  of  "lightness"  lies  in  the  coldness  of  the  ingredients, 
the  freedom  from  handling,  and  a  steady,  hot  oven,  exposure  to 
whose  heat  quickly  expands  the  cold  air  in  the  paste.  Baking 
powder  may,  or  may  not,  be  used. 

The  following  formula  makes  a  good,  plain  pastry,  the 
quantity  being  sufficient  for  2  small  crusts: — 

Sift  1  cup  of  flour,  V±  tsp.  Rumford  baking  powder  and  %  tsp. 
of  salt  together  well.  Work  in  with  a  knife  %  cup  of  shortening. 
(Do  not  use  the  fingers,  on  account  of  their  heat.)  Add  just  enough 
cold  water  to  hold  the  ingredients  together, — do  not  knead.  Turn  out 
on  a  slightly-floured  board,  divide  in  2  parts,  and  roll  out  lightly. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Good  Pie  Crust 

Mix  3  cups  of  flour,  %  tsp.  of  Rumford  baking  powder  and  % 
tsp.  salt  with  1  cup  of  lard.  Add  just  enough  water  to  make  in- 
gredients stick  together,  and  roll  out.  If  making  fruit  pie,  put  the 
fruit  in  the  oven  to  get  hot  while  making  the  pastry,  then  place  the 
fruit  in  a  deeper  pan  than  is  ordinarily  used,  and  cover  with  a  top 
crust  only. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Roessler. 


NASH 

PASSENGER  CARS  AND  TRUCKS 
J.  LESLIE  KREWSON 

HATBORO   AND  JENKINTOWN 

Nash  Leads  the  World  in  Motor  Car  Value 


KNOX  GELATINE  Is  the  one  dessert  for  all  appetites. 
47 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Pie  Crust 

One  cup  lard,  (generous,)  %  cup  boiling  water,  3  cups  flour, 
V2  teaspoon  salt.  Pour  boiling  water  over  lard,  stir  until  all  lumps 
disappear,  add  salt  and  flour.  Mix  lightly  (do  not  knead)  and  roll 
out. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Good  Meat-Pie  Crust 

Mix  3  cups  of  flour,  3  tsps.  of  Eumford  baking  powder,  and  Y2 
cup  of  lard  with  just  enough  milk  or  water  to  make  rolling  out  pos- 
sible, and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Roessler. 

Aunt  Sallie's  Pie  Crust 

Two  cups  flour,  4  tblsps.  lard,  2  tblsps.  butter,  %  cup  cold  water, 
pinch  of  salt.  Cut  up  lard  and  half  of  butter  and  mix  with  flour  in  a 
bowl.  Add  remainder  of  butter  a  little  at  a  time  while  rolling  out. — 
Mrs.  George  Nice. 

Puff  Paste 

Chop  6  oz.  of  cold  butter  into  a  half-pound  of  flour  until  like 
coarse  powder.  Wet  with  a  small  cupful  of  iced  water,  and  stir  to  a 
paste.  Eoll  out  quickly  and  lightly  several  times  on  a  chilled  board, 
handling  as  little  as  possible.  Set  on  ice  for  several  hours  before  us- 
ing, and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — L.  W.  M. 

Telephone— Office,   Melrose    1476  DEPENDABLE  COAL 

JOHN  B.  LYNAM 
COAL 

Lime,  Sand,  Cement  and  Building  Materials 
ASHBOURNE,  PA. 


THE  INTELLIGENCER 

DOYLESTOWN,  PA. 

Daily  and  Weekly 
Bucks  County's  Oldest  and  Largest  Newspapers 
Unrivalled  Local  News  Service  Best  Advertising  Mediums 

GEHRET  BROTHERS.  INC. 

Structural  Steel  and  Ornamental  Iron  Work 
Fire  Escapes,  Railings,  Wire  Guards 

Drawings  and  Estimates  Furnished 
BRIDGEPORT,  Montg.  Co.,  PA. 


Give  the  growing  children  KNOX  GELATINE. 
48 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
Once  a  customer,  it's  "dollars  to  doughnuts"  you'll  stay  one 


Apple  Sauce  Pie,  Creamed 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  thinly-rolled  crust  of  puff  paste,  sprinkle 
with  flour,  lay  on  a  similar  crust,  and  bake  brown.  Separate  crusts, 
spread  the  lower  with  sweetened  apple  sauce,  well-beaten  and  cover 
with  whipped  cream.  Lay  on  the  upper  crust,  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.  A  sweetened  meringue  may  be  substituted  for  the 
whipped  cream,  spreading  it  over  the  top  crust  only. — Contributed. 

Banana  Pie 

Cook  together  1  pt.  milk,  1  tblsp.  flour,  1  egg,  %  tsp.  cornstarch, 
%  cup  sugar,  and  pour  mixture  over  1  or  2  bananas  that  have  been 
laid  in  slices  on  a  baked  pie  crust. — Mrs.  E.  Rhumsyre. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 

One  egg,  %  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  tblsp.  cornstarch, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Flavor  and  boil  all  together. — Mrs.  Ray- 
mond Crawford. 

Camoflauge  Cheese  Pie 

One  can  condensed  milk,  4  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  IV2  lemons. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  milk,  lemon,  then  fold  in  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Sprinkle  a  little  nutmeg  on  top,  pour  in  a  baked  crust  and 
bake  until  set,  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 

-everything  musical 
since  186$ 

tYMANft 

1108  Chestnut  St. 


Ice  Cream 


The  Old  Fashioned  Kind 


Before  buying  a  new  GAS  RANGE  look  over  our  stock  and 

secure  our  prices 
Also  keep  in  mind  that  ranges  purchased  from  us 
carry  our  guarantee  of  service 

INTERSTATE  APPLIANCE  CORPORATION 

Labor  Saving  Devices 
P.  S.  G.  A  E.  Co.  BLDG.  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  clear  and  sparkling. 
49 


A  KNOX  GELATINE  Dessert  or  Salad  is  attractive  and  appetizing. 


Chocolate  Pie 

Beat  3  eggs  well  with  4  tblsps.  sugar,  and  add  2  cups  scalding 
milk,  gradually.  Stir  in  %  cup  grated  sweet  chocolate,  remove  from 
fire,  add  1  tsp.  vanilla,  and  bake  till  "set",  in  rich  puff  paste. — Con- 
tributed. 

Cottage  Cheese  Custard 

Line  a  large  pie  plate  with  plain  pastry,  and  fill  with  a  custard 
made  as  follows:  Eub  2  cups  of  cottage  cheese  until  smooth,  add  1 
tblsp.  of  corn  starch,  2  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  sugar  to  taste,  and 
1  large  cupful  of  milk.  Fill  into  the  crust,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
and  bake. — Mrs.  B.  Margerum. 

Crumb  Pie 

Make  crumbs  by  mixing  4  cups  flour,  2  cups  brown  sugar  and  1 
cup  shortening.  Pour  \xk  cups  boiling  water  over  1  tsp.  baking  soda 
and  stir  into  1  cup  of  molasses.  Half-fill  a  crust  with  the  liquid, 
sprinkle  with  the  crumbs  and  bake. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Lemon  Pie 

One  orange,  2  lemons,  3  eggs,  4  large  tblsps.  corn  starch,  butter 
(size  of  walnut),  \xk  cups  sugar.  Mix  and  add  boiling  water,  cooking 
continually  until  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Makes  three  pi«B. — 
Mabel  C.  Dennison. 

Aunt  Sallie's  Lemon  Pie 

Make  a  paste  of  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  cup  of  sugar, 
butter  the  size  of  walnut;  two  yolks  and  the  white  of  one  egg  (beat 

C.  EDWIN  MacNAIR 
Real  Estate  Broker 

And  All  Kinds 

Insurance 

PHONE  79-J  HATBORO,  FA. 


Phone,  Poplar  5364 

W.  T.  GARRISON 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BUILDER 
1338  NORTH  TENTH  STREET  PHILADELPHIA 


Compliments  of 

FRANK  RUSH 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

50 


Ask  your  grocer  for  KNOX  GELATINE— take  no  other. 


the  white  separately)  and  two  heaping  tsps.  of  cornstarch.  Add  cup 
of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  stiff.  Put  into  a  pie-crust,  then  cover 
with  the  second  white  of  egg  stiffly  beaten  with  a  tblsp.  of  sugar,  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  George  Nice. 

Lemon  Pie 

Three  lemons,  (grated  rind  and  juice),  3  small  teacupfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  6  egg  yolks,  well-beaten,  6  tsps.  cracker  crumbs,  6 
tblsps.  melted  butter,  %  cup  of  milk.  Stir  well  as  each  ingredient  is 
added.  Beat  the  6  egg  whites  very  stiffly,  and  fold  in  carefully,  last. 
Bake  very  slowly  so  that  the  pie  will  cook  through  before  it  browns. — 
A  transplanted  Southern  Cook. 

Lemon  Pie 

Boil  1  quart  of  milk  or  water,  cup  of  sugar,  3  lemons,  juice  and 
grated  rind;  small  piece  of  butter;  yolks  of  3  eggs;  3  tblsps.  corn- 
starch. Bake  with  an  undercrust.  Make  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs 
for  top. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Lemon  Pie 

Mix  4  tblsps.  cornstarch  with  3  cups  sugar,  add  well-beaten  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  4  cups  cold  water,  and  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons. 
Cook  until  clear,  stirring  continually.  When  cold  place  in  a  cold 
baked  crust.  Beat  the  4  egg  whites  stiff,  add  flavoring  and  a  little 
sugar,  spread  over  pie,  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF  THE 

GLENSIDE  RESTAURANT 

FRANK  A.  CHUBB,  PROP. 


Do  you  wish  to  buy  or  sell  REAL  ESTATE  along  the 
Reading  R.  R.  and  York  Road  Sections? 
SEE 

JOHN  H.  SHIELDS,  Real  Estate 

6800  YORK  ROAD 

Established  1906  Phone,  Oak  Lane  04-46 

FRANK  D.  CLIFFORD 

OPPOSITE  JENKINTOWN  THEATRE 

HOME-MADE  CANDY— FRESH  DAILY 

PARTY  NOVELTIES,  BIRTHDAY  GIFTS,  FINE  CONFECTIONS 
BREYER'S  ICE  CREAM 
51 


KNOX  GELATINE  improves  soups  and  gravies. 


Lemon  Cake  Pie 

Sift  1  cup  sugar,  2  tblsps.  flour  and  pinch  of  salt  together,  melt 
butter  size  of  an  egg  and  add  to  the  sugar,  then  juice  of  1  large  or 
two  small  lemons  and  grated  rind.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1 
cup  milk  and  last  of  all  2  whites  beaten  stiff.  Make  pie  crust  very 
short  and  pour  in  filling.  Bake  45  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Makes 
one  large  pie. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Lemon  Cream  Custard 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  2  cups  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  4  eggs,  %  cup  flour,  1  qt.  milk.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  separately  and  add  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sufficient 
for  2  pies. — Mrs.  Charles  Boyer. 

Lemon  Sponge  Pie 

Cream  1  full  cup  sugar  with  a  lump  of  butter,  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
1  tblsp.  flour,  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  last,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Joseph  L.  Tressl. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

Mix  1  tblsp.  corn  starch  with  2  tblsps.  cold  water,  add  1  cup 
boiling  water  and  boil  3  minutes.  Add  2  cups  cranberries  cut  in 
halves,  and  soaked  in  cold  water  2  hours,  Y2  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tsps.  vanilla,  pinch  salt.  This  makes  1  two- 
crust  pie. — Mrs.  Clarence  Ely. 


THE  WOMAN'S  CHRISTIAN  TEMPERANCE 
UNION 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 
"For  God  and  Home  and  Every  Land" 


Greenleaf  &  Donnelly 

PLASTERERS 

BELL  PHONE  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


52 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 

Montgomery  Pie 

First  Part. — 1  egg,  1  cup  water,  %  cup  molasses,  %  cup  sugar. 
Beat  together  well,  and  pour  into  two  unbaked  crusts. 

Second  Part. — 2  eggs,  2  cups  sugar  creamed  with  %  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  1  tsp.  soda,  1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar,  3  cups  flour.  Mix 
well,  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  the  first  mixture,  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre 

MOYER. 

Potato  Pie 

Two  lb.  mashed  potatoes,  xk  lb.  butter,  5  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
1  qt.  milk  (boil),  2  cups  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  H.  White,  Jr. 

Potato  Pie 

Boil  10  large  potatoes,  mash  and  put  through  colander.  Add  % 
lb.  butter,  2  cups  milk,  2V2  cups  sugar,  1  grated  nutmeg,  and  6  beaten 
eggs.  Mix  well.  Bake  with  under  crust  only.  Three  pies. — Mrs. 
Eva  F.  Stuckert. 

Sweet  Potato  Custard  Pie 

Cream  2  tblsps.  butter  with  V2  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  in  a  well- 
beaten  egg.  Add  %  cup  of  milk  and  1 %  cupf  uls  of  boiled  and  mashed 
sweet  potato,  beating  the  mixture  to  a  very  light,  smooth  custard. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg  to  taste,  turn  into  a  crust  and  bake  till  a  rich 

E.  BUEHLER 

SPRING  WOOD  DAIRY 
PURE    MILK  PROMPT  SERVICE 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


BELL  PHONE  ESTIMATES  FURNISHED 


HARRY  EICHMANN 

ELECTRICAL  CONTRACTING 
AND  REPAIRING 

MOTORS  INSTALLED  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


Send  for  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipe  book. 
53 


Send  for  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipe  book. 


brown.  The  crust  may  be  baked  on  the  outside  of  the  pie  plate  first, 
then  the  custard  filled  in  and  browned. — Contributed. 

Sweet  Potato  Meringue 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light,  add  a  scant  teacupful  of  sugar,  1 
pt.  of  milk,  a  large  cupful  of  mashed  yellow  sweet  potatoes,  and  a 
little  cinnamon.  Put  in  a  crust  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add- 
ing a  tblsp.  of  powdered  sugar;  spread  over  the  pie,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. — Letitia  Roberts. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Three  cups  well-cooked  mashed  pumpkin,  4  cups  of  milk,  2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  1  tblsp.  cornstarch,  3  eggs,  tsp.  of  salt,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg  to  taste.   This  will  make  3  pies. — Mrs.  George  Nice. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Mix  3  cups  thick  stewed  and  sieved  pumpkin,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  saltspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  %  tsp.  cinnamon,  pinch  cloves,  Vz  a 
nutmeg  grated.  Line  2  pie  plates  as  for  custard  pie  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Eva  F.  Stuckert. 

Raspberry  Pie,  Creamed 

Fill  a  rich  crust  %  full  of  red  raspberries.  Sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  add  a  top  crust,  rubbing  the  edges  of  both  crusts  with 
butter  to  prevent  their  sticking  together.  Thicken  a  cupful  of  hot 
milk  with  1  tsp.  cornstarch,  wet  with  cold  milk.  Add  2  tblsps.  sugar, 
remove  from  fire,  and  when  cool,  fold  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  3  eggs. 


W.  JOHN  STEVENS,  INC. 

Contractors  and  Builders 

Suburban  Homes  Repair  Work  in  All  Branches 

Plastering,  Painting,  Masonry 
Both  Phones  WYNCOTE,  PA. 


INSALL'S  GREENHOUSES 

Horace  Avenue,  near  Fire  House,  Abington 

A  full  line  of  Bedding,  Vegetable  and  Plants  of  all  kinds  in 
season,  Cut  Flowers  and  Floral  Designs 

Established  20  years.     Our  Aim  a  Square  Deal,  Quick  Sales, 
Reasonable   Prices.     Get  Acquainted. 


Compliments  of 

ALBERT  RANDALL 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

54 


KNOX  GELATINE  improves  soups  and  gravies. 


After  the  pie  is  baked  and  cold,  remove  the  upper  crust,  and  cover  the 
berries  with  the  creamed  mixture.  Replace  the  top  crust,  and  sift 
with  powdered  sugar. — A.  L.  W. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Cut  fine  enough  rhubarb  for  pie,  add  1  cup  sugar,  3  heaping 
tblsps.  flour,  2  tblsps.  molasses  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Stir  all  together 
and  let  stand  10  minutes  before  putting  in  crust. — Mrs  Marshall 
White. 

Rhubarb  and  Raisin  Pie 

Cut  peeled  rhubarb  into  short  pieces,  pour  boiling  water  over 
and  let  stand  10  min.  Drain  and  put  into  a  plain  crust.  Sprinkle 
with  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  raisins,  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Add  top 
crust  and  bake. — A  Friend. 

Savory  Cheese  Pie 

Melt  a  small  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  a  small  piece  of  butter 
in  a  cup  of  hot  milk.  Add  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  beaten  eggs  and  a 
little  salt.   Bake  till  brown  in  a  buttered  pie  plate. — A  Friend. 

"Shoo-Fly"  Pie 

Mix  1  cup  of  table  syrup,  1  tsp.  baking  soda  and  1  cup  boiling 
water,  cool,  and  fill  into  pie  crusts.  (This  amount  makes  3  large 
pies).  Top  with  crumbs  made  of  3%  cups  flour,  %  cup  lard,  and  1 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  bake. — Letitia  Roberts. 


Compliments  of 

THE  TIMES-CHRONICLE 

Jenkintown,  Pa. 

FRANK  BIRNBRAUER 
Florist 

15th  Street  and  7  2d  Avenue 
Oak  Lane,  Philadelphia  Pa. 

JOHN  T.  LEHR 

Hardware,  Household  Utensils,  Electrical  Appliances 

GLENSIDE,  PA. 

55 


Ask  your  grocer  for  KNOX  GELATINE — take  no  other. 


Sour  Cream  Pie 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  %  tblsp.  corn  starch 
and  1  cup  sour  cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  add  V2  cup  of  cleaned 
currants,  and  when  thick,  pour  in  a  rich  baked  crust.  Top  with 
meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  and  sugar,  brown  in  oven,  and  serve 
cold.— A.  L.  W. 

Vinegar  Pie 

Mix  1  heaping  tblsp.  flour  (wet  with  cold  water),  with  1  cupful 
vinegar,  1  tblsp.  butter,  and  %  cupful  sugar,  and  stir  over  fire  until 
melted.  Add  1  cup  cold  water,  and  stir  till  thick.  Pour  into  crusts, 
and  bake  15  min.  in  hot  oven.  Make  a  meringue  of  1  egg  white  and 
2  tblsps.  powdered  sugar,  spread  thickly  over  pies,  and  brown  lightly. 
— Contributed. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie 

Bake  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  when  cool  spread  with  a  layer  of 
currant  or  other  jelly.  Whip  a  cupful  of  cream,  sweeten  with 
powdered  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  spread  over  the  jelly.  The 
pie  may  be  varied  by  filling  with  whipped  cream  alone,  or  with 
blanched  chopped  almonds  or  other  nuts  added. — Mrs.  J.  Dyke  Moyer. 


Phone,  Wyoming  5943  W  Open  Eveaings 

LITTLE  DRESS  SHOP 

Exclusive  Sample  Dresses 
4824  NORTH  NINTH  STREET 
Logan,  Philadelphia 


Compliments  of  the 

PINE  PLUME  LUMBER  CO. 

Savannah,  Ga. 


CHARLES  H.  BATTIS 

FOUNTAIN  HOTEL  GARAGE 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 
Machine  and  Auto  Repairing 
Welding  and  Brazing         :  Accessories 

Bell  Telephone,  Willow  Grove  156M. 

56 


Let  us  manage  your  real  estate 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


PUDDINGS 

Batter  Pudding 

Into  a  double  boiler  put  one  cupful  of  milk,  1  heaping  tblsp. 
butter  and  Y2  cup  flour.  Beat  while  cooking  until  it  leaves  side  of 
boiler,  then  remove  from  fire.  Add  3  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
batter  well  after  each  egg  is  added,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat 
again.  Turn  into  a  warm,  well  greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  35  minutes.  Serve  immediately  with  crushed 
fruit  sauce. — M.  A.  H. 

Old  Fashioned  Bread  Pudding 

Put  in  baking  dish,  1  qt.  milk,  3  eggs,  V2  cup  sugar,  xk  nutmeg 
(grated).  Toast  5  slices  of  bread  on  1  side,  put  on  top  of  milk,  with 
toasted  side  down.  Put  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut  on  each  piece 
of  bread,  also  sprinkle  of  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Place  dish  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  custard  is  set,  and 
bread  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Morris. 

Brown  Betty 

Place  in  a  well  greased  baking  pan  alternating  layers  of  diced 
stale  bread  and  apples,  peeled  and  sliced  and  seasoned  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Have  the  top  layer  of  apples.  Pour  over  all  a  thin 
apple  sauce  sufficient  to  fill  pan  to  V2  its  depth.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  for  45  minutes.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  caramel  sauce. 


Compliments  of 

MR.  and  MRS.  SILAS  C.  MORRIS 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


Masonry  Work  for  Schools  Bell  Phone  Teams  to  Hire 

and  Churches  a   Specialty  Stone  For  Sale 

PETER  LAURO  &  SON 

Stone  Mason  Contractors 

Jobbing  Promptly  Attended  to 

Foundation  Work  4927  NORTH  LAWRENCE  ST, 

Excavating  of  every  description  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


WM.  HOBENSACK 

Dealer  in 

Lumber,  Coal,  Fertilizers,  Building  Materials,  Feed  and  Grain 


IVYLAND,  PA. 

57 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Caramel  Sauce 

Cook  %  cup  of  brown  sugar  until  very  brown,  then  add  one 
quart  of  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Thicken  with  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Old  Fashioned  Brown  Betty 

Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish. 
Into  the  crumbs  put  small  bits  of  butter.  Next,  a  layer  of  apples, 
cored  and  sliced,  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  or  cinnamon.  Repeat  until 
dish  is  full.  Add  %  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Butter  Scotch  Pudding 

Soak  a  thick  slice  of  bread  in  cold  water  for  15  min.,  then  squeeze 
out  the  water,  and  crumble  the  bread.  Cook  %  cup  of  brown  sugar 
with  1  tblsp.  of  butter  till  like  candy,  add  a  pint  of  scalded  milk,  the 
bread,  and  2  well-beaten  egg  yolks.  Flavor  with  1  tsp.  vanilla,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  well  and  bake  slowly  in  a  greased  dish  about  40 
min.  Top  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  and  4  tblsps.  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  brown. — Letitia  Roberts. 

Caramel  Custard  Pudding 

Beat  4  eggs  light,  add  1  qt.  of  scalded  milk,  2  tblsps.  sugar  and 
1  cup  of  sugar  melted  to  a  light  brown.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 


Compliments  of  the 

JENKINTOWN  BUICK  CO. 


JOBBING  BELL  PHONE 

E.  ALLEN  REEVES 

CONTRACTOR  AND  BUILDER 

ABINGTON,  PA. 


Bell  Phone,  Oregon  4266 


DR.  BURVIN  HARDY 

Chiropodist 

City  Office  Branch  Office 

1811  REED  STREET  Moreland  Road  and  Church  St. 

Philadelphia,  Pa.  Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

58 


A  KNOX  GELATINE  Dessert  or  Salad  is  attractive  and  appetizing. 


setting  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  ice  cold. — Mrs.  P.  J. 
Donnelly. 

Cheese  Pudding 

Melt  %  lb.  grated  cheese  in  1  pt.  milk,  add  4  or  6  rolled  soda 
crackers  and  1  beaten  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  and  bake  on  platter 
until  brown. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Cherry  Pudding  (Steamed) 

Mix  1%  tblsps.  butter,  V2  tblsp.  lard,  2  cups  flour,  pinch  salt,  and 
2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder  with  %  cup  milk  and  a  well  beaten 
egg.  Pour  over  cherries  and  steam  IV2  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Hard  Sauce 

Cream  one  cup  pulverized  sugar  and  xk  cup  butter,  flavor  and 
set  on  ice. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Holt. 

Chocolate  Pudding 

Melt  1%  squares  chocolate,  add  IV2  tblsps.  cornstarch  and  % 
cup  sugar,  mixed.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  2  cups  hot  milk,  a  little 
at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  25  minutes  in  double  boiler;  add 
beaten  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Pour  into  bake  dish.  Beat 
white  of  1  egg  until  stiff,  add  1  tblsp.  sugar  for  meringue.  Spread 
over  pudding,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  from  a  pyrex  baking  dish. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 


L.  WALTON  HEISS 
Architect 

JENKINTOWN,  PA. 


Compliments  of 

BEECHWOOD  SCHOOL 

Jenkintown,  Pa. 


WALTER  SMITH 

Light  Lunch  and  Automobile  Parking  During  the  Park  Season 
All-the-Year-'Round  Gas  Station,  and  Taxi  and  Truck  Service 

Moreland  Road  at  Park  Avenue 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

59 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
If  you  want  to  try  anything  we  do  not  "carry,"  tell  us 


Chocolate  Pudding 

Soak  3  cups  bread  crumbs  in  a  little  water,  then  squeeze  most 
of  water  out,  leaving  sort  of  a  paste.  Add  x£  cake  chocolate,  melted, 
1  egg  and  an  extra  yolk,  well  beaten,  V2  pt.  milk,  and  about  xk  tsp. 
Rumford  baking  powder.  Bake  till  fairly  firm,  and  serve  hot  with 
hard  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Chocolate  Boiled  Rice  Pudding 

Dissolve  V2  cupful  of  prepared  chocolate  in  2%  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water,  add  XA  tsp.  salt,  M  tsp.  ground  cloves,  V%  cupful  raisins  and  6 
tblsps.  of  rice.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  till  rice  is  tender,  and  serve 
hot  or  cold  with  cream  or  vanilla  sauce. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Chocolate  Plum  Pudding 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  %  cup  cold  water,  1 
cup  sugar,  V2  tsp.  vanilla,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  V2  cup  dates  or  figs, 
if  desired;  XA  cup  sliced  citron  or  nuts,  as  preferred,  V2  cup  currants, 
IY2  squares  chocolate,  1  pint  milk,  pinch  salt.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold 
water  five  minutes.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  melted  chocolate, 
and  when  scalding  point  is  reached  add  sugar,  salt  and  soaked  gela- 
tine. Remove  from  fire  and  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add 
vanilla,  fruit  and  nut  meats.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  holly. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Compliments  of 

l  .  s  .  SHAIKO 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 


WILLOW  GROVE  COUNCIL 
KNIGHTS   OF  COLUMBUS 

GRAND  KNIGHT,  CHAS.  A.  ALLENDORF 


DAVID  J.  NOLAN 

Dealer  in 

Meats,  Groceries  and  Provisions      Hardware,  Paints  and  Ois 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

60 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  clear  and  sparkling. 


Fruit  Pudding 

One  tblsp.  butter,  creamed  with  %  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  V2  cup 
milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  tsp.  Rumford  baking  powder,  mixed  in  usual 
batter  manner.  Half  fill  cups  with  any  kind  fresh  or  stewed  fruits, 
pour  batter  on  top,  set  in  shallow  pans  of  water,  and  bake.  Delicious. 
Serves  six. — Mabel  C.  Dennison. 

Fruit  Pudding 

Two  cups  of  flour,  2  tsps.  of  Rumford  baking  powder,  2  tblsps. 
of  shortening.  Mix  with  milk  as  for  pies,  roll  in  one  sheet  and  cover 
with  fruit,  then  roll,  as  for  jelly  roll  and  cut  in  slices.  Place  in 
pudding  pan,  and  cover  with  syrup,  made  from  boiling  one  cup  of 
sugar,  with  one  cup  of  water.  Bake  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  Howard 
Leadbeater. 

Lemon  Meringue  Pudding 

Soak  2  cups  bread  crumbs  in  1  qt.  of  milk,  add  4  beaten  egg 
yolks  with  %  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  sugar  (rubbed  to  a  cream), 
and  juice  of  a  large  lemon  with  half  the  rind,  grated.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  dish  till  firm  and  slightly  browned,  then  top  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  egg  whites  whipped  stiff  with  3  tblsps.  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  flavored  with  a  little  lemon  juice.  Brown  meringue  lightly,  then 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.   Serve  cold. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Plum  Pudding 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  V2  pound  of  butter,  or  V±  pound  butter 
and  "hi  pound  of  chopped  suet,  l1^  pounds  of  fruit,  raisins  or  cur- 
rants, 1%  cups  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder. 


r^rrn)  Klenk  Auto  Service  ^21^ 

\8 Exclusive  Dealer  in  vCLEVELAND  SIX 

CARS  Chandler  and  Cleveland  Motor  Cars  CARS 

SOUTHAMPTON  AND  JENKINTOWN 

and  Surrounding  Territory  of  Bucks  and  Montgomery  Counties 
Bell  Phone,  Churchville  1  1  9 

ROSLYN  MONUMENTAL  WORKS 

JOHN  F.  BIERLIN 

Designer  and  Manufacturer 
Monuments,  Mausoleums,  Vaults,  Statuary,  Celtic  and  Latin  Crosses 

Cemetery  Lots  Enclosed 
Opposite  Hillside  Cemetery  Office,  Main  Entrance 

Bell  Phone — Office  and  Residence 

Compliments  of 

EDWARD  F.  CHAPMAN 

Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

61 


Give  the  growing  children  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Boil  steadily  for  5  hours  and  for  two  hours  more  before  serving. — Mbs. 
Maud  Heath. 

Prune  Brown  Betty 

Fill  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  alternating  layers  of  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  cooked,  unsweetened  prunes  that  have  been  cooled 
and  pitted.  Sprinkle  each  prune  layer  with  sugar.  Have  the  top 
layer  of  crumbs,  dotted  with  butter  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Add  the 
prune  juice  and  bake,  closely  covered,  in  a  slow  oven  about  40  min. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. — L.  W.  M. 

Prune  Pudding 

Stone  1  lb.  of  stewed  prunes,  and  chop  fine.  Beat  the  whites  of 
3  eggs  stiff  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  add  the  prunes,  with  1  tsp. 
vanilla.  Brown  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  A  sauce  can  be 
made  of  the  egg  yolks,  1  pt.  of  milk,  and  2  tblsps.  of  corn  starch. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Prune  Souffle  (Delicious) 

Stone  18  large  stewed  prunes,  chop  fine,  and  beat  them  into  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  8  eggs  and  7  tblsps.  of  powdered 
sugar.  Bake  in  a  greased  dish  for  20  minutes.  Serve  immediately 
with  whipped  cream. — L.  W.  M. 

Queen  of  Puddings 

Rub  1  tblsp.  of  butter  into  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  2  cups  fine  dry  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  soaked 
in  1  qt.  of  milk,  and  1  tblsp.  of  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.   Bake  until 


Estimates  Given  Call  or  Writ* 

C.  R.  RITCHIE 

Plastering  and  Cement  Work 
WILLOW  AVENUE,  NORTH  WILLOW  GROVE 

Hatboro  23-J-2 


FOR  GOOD  THINGS  TO  EAT 

VISIT  THE 

GIRARD  AVE.  CAFE 

1024-1030  W.  GIRARD  AVENUE  PHILADELPHIA 
(At  Wamock  Street) 
JOHN  VESER,  Proprietor 
62 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
AH  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


firm  in  a  large,  buttered  dish  (about  %  full)  then  spread  with 
%  cup  of  jelly  or  jam,  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  egg 
whites  and  V2  cup  of  sugar,  and  brown  lightly.  Eat  cold  with  cream. 
— Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Refrigerator  Pudding 

Three-quarters  lb.  lady  fingers,  4  tblsps.  powdered  sugar,  % 
lb.  sweet  chocolate,  5  eggs,  4  tblsps.  boiling  water.  Melt  chocolate 
in  top  of  double  boiler;  add  boiling  water  and  sugar.  Work  lumps 
out.  Add  yolks  of  eggs,  cool ;  add  beaten  whites.  Line  deep  pan  with 
wax  paper.  Alternate  split  lady  fingers  and  chocolate  mixture;  make 
last  layer  of  lady  fingers. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 

Rice  Pudding 

To  1  pt.  of  milk  add  1  tblsp.  of  rice.  Sweeten,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  it  thickens  like  fresh  cream. 
Cool  and  serve. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Steamed  Suet  Pudding  (Fine) 

Three-quarters  cup  of  chopped  beef  suet;  one  cup  currants  or 
seedless  raisins;  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  flour;  one  cup  milk; 
one  cup  sugar;  one  tblsp.  cinnamon;  one  tblsp.  Rumford  baking 
powder.  Mix  well,  put  milk  and  powder  in  last.  Put  in  a  well 
greased  kettle  with  lid  that  overlaps.  A  five  pound  kettle  is  fine. 
Have  larger  boiler  about  one-third  or  one-half  full  of  boiling  water. 


AT   YOUR  SERVICE 

Mooney's  WELDON  Storage 

MOVING  AND  HAULING  OF  ALL  KINDS 
PHONE,  OGONTZ  551  J  ESTIMATES  FREE 

Long  Distance  Moving  a  Specialty 

REFERENCE:  Ask  the  People  We  Move 

WHY  NOT  KNOW  ALL  ABOUT 

CREMATION  ? 

Our  Booklet  at  Your  Disposal  for  the  Asking 
PHILADELPHIA  CREMATORY  AND  COLUMBARIUM 
CHELTEN  HILLS  CEMETERY  CO. 

Office,  1509  Arch  Street  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Phone,  Spruce  2595 

63 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  the  one  dessert  for  all  appetites. 


Place  kettle  in  and  let  it  keep  boiling  three  or  four  hours.  Turn  out 
on  plate.    It  looks  like  cake. 

Sauce. — Bring  1  pint  milk  to  a  boil,  add  sugar,  then  1  tblsp. 
cornstarch.  Cool  and  add  vanilla,  or  any  desired  flavoring. — Mrs.  H. 
R.  Johnson. 

Steamed  Pudding 

One-half  cup  molasses,  1  tblsp.  melted  butter,  1%  cups  of  flour, 
1  cup  of  milk,  V2  tsp.  baking  soda,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  %  tsp.  of 
salt.  Boil  steadily  three  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
John  F.  W. 

Suet  Pudding 

Shred  and  chop  1  cup  of  suet  very  fine.  Add  1  cup  molasses,  and 
1  cup  of  milk  and  mix  well.  Add  3  cups  of  flour,  V2  tsp.  salt  and  1 
tsp.  cinnamon.  Beat  vigorously  for  two  minutes,  then  add  1  cup  of 
seeded  raisins,  well  floured,  and  1  tsp.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Turn 
into  two  well-greased  kettles  with  closely-fitting  lids.  (Small  lard 
cans  are  very  good  for  this,  or  a  pudding  bag.)  Keep  boiling  about 
4  hours,  and  serve  hot  with  hard  sauce- — A  Friend. 

Summer  Squash  Pudding 

Stew  the  squash,  drain,  and  strain  out  seeds.  Measure  and  add  1 
cup  sugar,  V2  tsp.  mace  and  a  little  salt  to  each  pint,  and  mix  slowly 
with  1  qt.  of  boiling  milk.  When  quite  cold,  add  5  well-beaten  egg 
yolks,  and  1  cup  thick  cream.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  firm,  then 
top  with  a  meringue  of  3  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  with  a  cup  of  fine 
macaroon  crumbs.    Brown  and  eat  cold. — Contributed. 


People  interested  in  the  same  thing 
should  be  interested  in  each  other; — 
that  is  the  key-note  of  co-operation. 

EVERY  BANKING  AND  TRUST 
COMPANY  SERVICE 

AUTHORIZED  CAPITAL  AND  SURPLUS  $300,000.00 

GLENSIDE  TRUST  COMPANY 

GLENSIDE  ~  PENNSYLVANIA 
64 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  a  transparent,  tender,  quivering  jelly. 


OTHER  SWEETS 

Apple  Meringue 

Wash  as  many  apples  as  needed,  remove  core  and  fill  with  sugar. 
Place  in  baking  pan,  add  enough  water  in  bottom  of  pan  to  cover  it, 
and  bake  until  done.  Make  meringue,  put  on  top,  brown,  cool,  and 
serve  with  cream.  Add  lemon  juice  to  meringue  if  desired. — Mrs. 
William  E.  Robinson. 

Banana  Fritters 

Whip  3  eggs  very  light  and  beat  into  them  a  cupful  of  rich 
milk  and  a  cupful  of  flour  that  has  been  well-sifted  with  a  tsp.  of 
Rumford  baking  powder  and  a  saltsp.  of  salt.  Add  six  bananas 
(thinly  sliced),  mix  well,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep,  boiling 
fat.  When  golden-brown,  drain  on  tissue-paper,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Banbury  Tarts 

Make  puff  paste  and  cut  into  six-inch  squares.  In  the  center  of 
each  put  a  great  spoonful  of  raspberry,  currant  or  other  good  tart 
jam.  Pinch  the  edges  of  the  squares  tightly  together,  and  drop  care- 
fully into  a  pot  of  deep,  boiling  fat.  Fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown, 
and  drain  on  tissue  paper. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Berry  Frappe 

Dissolve  1  package  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add 
1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  of  juice  from  crushed  berries  and  Vz  cup 
sugar.    Just  as  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  beat  till  light  with  egg 

Phone,  Diamond  7694 

TAPLINGER'S  KEYSTONE  STORE 

Ladies*  Ready-to- Wear  Designers-Manufacturers 

934-36  WEST  LEHIGH  AVENUE,  PHILADELPHIA 

Next  door  to  Shelmire's 
SPECIAL  ATTENTION  GIVEN  STOUT  MODELS 

JOSEPH  KOONS 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries         Ice  Cream  and  Light  Lunch 

EASTON  ROAD  AT  WELSH 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Boll,  Willow  Grove  I  5  1 

CARL  J.  GOESSLER 

Real  Estate  and  Insurance    -    Notary  Public 

Suburban  Homes  a  Specialty 
WILLOW  GROVE — AT  STATION 

65 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE— the  two  quart  package. 


beater.  Add  1  pt.  whipped  cream,  and  beat  again  till  thick.  Serve 
very  cold  in  frappe  glasses,  over  sweetened  and  crushed  berries. — 
Mrs.  Howard  Leadbeater. 


One-half  envelope  Knox  gelatine,  V2  cup  cold  water,  1  tblsp. 
lemon  juice,  1  cup  cherry  juice,  IV2  cup  canned  cherries,  %  cup 
sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  5  minutes.  Dis- 
solve in  hot  cherry  juice.  When  mixture  begins  to  set,  add  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard  sauce  made 
as  follows: 

One  cup  milk,  2  egg  yolks,  %  cup  sugar,  Vs  tsp.  salt,  U,  tsp. 
vanilla.  Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  mix  eggs,  sugar  and  salt;  add  to 
milk.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  vanilla  when  cool. — Mrs.  A.  W. 
Geiger. 


Soak  1  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  1  pt.  cold  water  1  hour.  Add 
1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  stir  till  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  xk 
lb.  sugar,  2  lemons  (juice  and  grated  peel),  and  1  cup  of  strong, 
black  coffee.  Bring  to  a  brisk  boil  and  strain  through  cheese  cloth. 
Pour  into  molds.  Serve  with  plain  cream  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
P.  J.  Donnelly. 


T.  WILMER  FESMIRE  P.  RUSSELL  FESMIRE 

Phone,  Bethayres  84  R  2  Phone,  Bethayres  123 


Cherry  Sponge 


Coffee  Gelatine 


FESMIRE 


BROS. 


CONTRACTORS  AND  BUILDERS 


Suburban  Building  and  Jobbing  Work 
of  Every  Description 


ESTIMATES  AND 


TWENTY  YEARS- 


CONSULTATION  FREE 


EXPERIENCE 


SECOND  STREET  PIKE 


HUNTINGDON  VALLEY,  PA. 


66 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
Quality,  good  service  and  fair  prices  meet  here 


Cream  Puffs 

One  cup  flour,  %  tsp.  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  xk  cup  lard,  4 
eggs.  Add  the  salt  and  lard  to  water,  and  boil;  add  flour  all  at 
once,  stirring  continually  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the 
pan.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  eggs,  beating  con- 
tinually. Drop  by  spoonful  about  2  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.   Fill  with  cornstarch  or  preserves. — Mrs.  Raymond  Crawford. 

Lemon  Custard 

Bring  a  pint  of  water  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  V2  cup  of 
sugar,  1  tsp.  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Grate  half  a  lemon  and 
squeeze  the  juice  from  it.  Add  the  rind  to  the  boiling  water  and 
stir  in  two  tblsps.  of  cornstarch  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add 
yolk  of  egg;  cook  over  hot  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the 
juice  of  the  lemon.  Pour  in  individual  dishes  and  top  with  meringue 
made  from  the  white  of  egg  and  2  tblsps.  of  granulated  sugar, 
flavored  with  lemon.  Brown  delicately  and  serve  very  cold. — Mrs. 
John  R.  Howarth. 

Lemon  Sponge  or  Snow  Pudding 

One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  XA  cup  cold  water,  1 
cup  boiling  water,  %  cup  sugar,  XA  cup  lemon  juice,  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water, 
add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  strain,  and  set 


PACKARD  AND 
DODGE  BROTHERS 

Motor  Cars 

TIRE  MILEAGE  IS  HIGH 

GAS  CONSUMPTION  IS  LOW 

ERNEST  JONES 

YORK  ROAD  AT  NOBLE  STATION 


67 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


aside;  occasionally  stir  mixture,  and  when  quite  thick,  beat  with 
wire  spoon  or  whisk  until  frothy;  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Pile  by 
spoonfuls  on  glass  dish.  Chill  and  serve  with  boiled  custard.  A  very 
attractive  dish  may  be  prepared  by  coloring  half  the  mixture  red. 

Maple  Sponge 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  1XA  cups  cold  water,  2 
cups  brown  or  maple  sugar,  Vz  cup  hot  water,  whites  of  2  eggs,  1 
cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes. 
Put  sugar  and  hot  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  soaked  gelatine.  Cool, 
and  when  nearly  set,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  nut 
meats.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve 
with  custard  made  of  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  salt, 
milk,  and  flavoring. 

Nut  Frapp  e 

One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  XA  cup  cold  water, 
%  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cooked  pineapple  and  strawberries,  1  cup  cream, 
3A  cup  milk,  white  of  one  egg,  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Soak  gelatine  in 
the  cold  water  five  minutes  and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add  dis- 
solved gelatine  to  cream,  milk,  and  sugar  and  stir  in  beaten  white  of 
egg.  When  cold,  add  the  pineapple  and  strawberries  which  have 
been  chopped  in  small  pieces,  also  the  chopped  nuts.  Serve  ice  cold 
in  sherbet  glasses. 


Big  Security  Behind  Your  Dollar 


WHEN  DEPOSITED  IN 


Hatboro  National  Bank 


Surplus  More  Than  Double  Capital 


3.65%  INTEREST  SAFE  DEPOSIT  BOXES 

ON  SAVINGS  DEPOSITS  $2.50   PER   YEAR,  UP 


68 


Saving  Fund  accounts  solicited 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


Peach  or  Apple  Dumpling 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  tsp.  of  Rumford  baking  powder,  lump  of 
butter  or  lard  size  of  small  egg,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  then 
add  milk  or  water  to  make  a  thick  dough.  Divide  into  six  parts  and 
roll  into  three-inch  strips.  Lay  thinly  sliced  peaches  on  the  dough, 
sweeten  with  sugar,  and  roll  as  you  would  a  cinnamon  bun.  Place 
in  a  deep  pan  and  add  enough  hot  water  to  half  cover  dumplings. 
Place  a  small  piece  of  butter  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top  of  each 
dumpling  and  bake  Vst  hour.  Eat  with  hard  sauce,  fruit  sauce  or 
cream. — Mrs.  Emma  H.  McCartney. 

Strawberries  and  Cake 

One  dozen  large  berries  crushed  and  sweetened;  cake  cut  in 
half;  the  whites  of  two  eggs;  four  tblsps,  of  sugar  beaten  stiff. 
Layer  of  cake,  layer  of  egg,  layer  of  berries.  Eepeat  and  garnish 
with  large  whole  berries. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Two  cups  flour,  V2  cup  sugar,  2  heaping  tsps.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  %  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tblsps.  shortening,  %  to  %  cup  water 
or  milk.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  rub  in  shortening.  Add 
sufficient  milk  or  water  (water  makes  a  shorter  and  more  tender 
cake)  to  make  soft  dough.  Spread  in  pans  and  bake  15  or  20  minutes 
in  a  medium  oven,  or  until  slightly  brown.   Let  cake  become  cold  then 


Best  For  Babies!     Best  For  Invalids! 
Best  For  You! 

Physicians  invariably  prescribe  HOLSTEIN  COWS' 
MILK  for  bottle-fed  babies  because  this  milk  is 
nearest  to  human  milk  in  composition.  Diet  spec- 
ialists throughout  the  country  advocate  the  use  of 
HOLSTEIN  COWS'  MILK  for  invalids  and  persons 
whose  digestive  organs  are  out  of  gear.  The  lead- 
ing hospitals  and  sanatoriums  use  HOLSTEIN 
COW'S  MILK.  THERE  IS  A  REASON! 
If  you  would  know  more  about  it  write  us  for  a 
free  illustrated  booklet  containing  "The  Story  of 
Holstein  Milk." 

FOR  A  DAILY  SUPPLY  OF  THIS  WONDERFUL  UP- 
BUILDING FOOD,  CALL  OGONTZ  842 
Our  dairy  herd  is  tuberculin  tested  by  U.  S.  Government  veter- 
inarians.   The  milk  is  pure  and  sanitary.     It  costs  no  more 
than  other  milk. 

Brentwood  Farm  (Formerly  The  Folly  Farms) 
Abington,  Pa. 


69 


DESSERTS  can  be  made  in  a  short  time  with  KNOX  GELATINE. 


milk.  Boil  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water,  without 
making  the  water  look  milky.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  marshmallow  whip.  Beat  until  it  thickens,  flavor  as 
desired  and  spread  on  the  cake.  Mash  slightly,  sufficient  strawberries 
to  place  between  layers  of  cake,  and  spread  on  the  icing.  Put  layers 
together.  Place  whole  or  halved  strawberries  on  top  of  the  cake. 
This  may  be  served  with  milk  or  cream  if  desired. — Elsie  M.  Seibert. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  well-beaten,  1  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  2%  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  %  tspn.  salt,  1  tspn. 
vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff,  add  2  tblsps. 
sugar,  place  strawberries  on  layers  of  cake  and  place  icing  on  top  of 
berries.    Serve  with  fresh  cream. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Strawberry  Mousse 

Cook  1  pt.  water  with  1  pt.  sugar  till  it  threads,  then  add  6 
stiffly-beaten  egg  whites,  whipping  continually.  Add  %  pt.  straw- 
berry (or  other  fruit)  juice,  and  beat  till  cold.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt 
5  hrs.    If  desired,  add  1  pt.  whipped  cream,  and  use  only  3  egg 

whites. — Contributed.  _ 

Tapioca  Jelly 

Soak  %  cup  tapioca  in  1  cup  cold  water  over  night.  Dissolve  1 
tblsp.  granulated  sugar  in  1  pt.  boiling  water  (in  double  boiler),  add 
the  tapioca,  and  cook  till  clear.  Take  from  fire,  and  add  2  tsps. 
lemon  juice.  Dip  glasses  in  cold  water,  fill  with  jelly,  and  set  where 
cold  to  form.    Serve  very  cold  with  sweetened  cream. — Contributed. 

ELSIE  E.  LIGHTCAP 
Millinery 
ROOM  203,  TRUST  COMPANY  BUILDING 
Cor.  York  Road  and  Greenwood  Ave. 
JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

Open  Saturday  Evenings 

Willow  Grove  130-M  Estimates  Furnished 

REDMILE  &  GRIFFIN 

Plumbing       -       Steam  and  Hat  Water  Heating 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

If  the  cake  is  made  with  Good  Milk  it  is  a  Good  one.  Try 
our  special 

"MOUNTAIN  VIEW"  FARM  MILK 

Guaranteed  5%  Fat 

JOHN  C.  STUCKERT 

Willow  Grove  156-J         DAVISVILLE  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


70 


Try  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipes  found  in  this  book. 


CAKES  AND  ICINGS 


Apple  Sauce  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  applesauce,  4  cups  flour,  1  lb.  raisins, 
2  tblsps.  lard,  1  tspn.  baking  soda.  Does  not  require  all  the  flour 
sometimes,  but  have  batter  stiff.— Mrs.  Clarence  Ely. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

One  cup  of  sweetened  applesauce,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  chopped 
raisins,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  spices  if 
desired.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  thoroughly  while  mixing  with 
the  applesauce,  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  raisins, 
and  last  stir  in  1  pt.  of  flour. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Betsy  Ross  Cake 

Into  1  cup  of  mixed  butter  and  lard  stir  2  cups  sugar  until 
creamy^.  Add  3  eggs  and  mix  well.  Sift  3  cups  flour  with  3  tsps. 
Eumford  baking  powder  and  pinch  of  salt,  and  add,  with  1  cup  milk 
and  2  tsps  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Use  any  filling  or  icing. — Mrs. 
Silas  C.  Morris. 

Billy  Sunday  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  cup  milk.  Beat 
slowly.  Add  2  cups  flour,  2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  pinch 
salt,  2  tspns.  cocoa  and  flavoring  to  taste. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 


Insurance  Mortgages 

EDWARD  V.  SCHIESSER 
Real  Estate 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA.— OPPOSITE  STATION 

Rents  and  Interest  Collected  Conveyancing 

GLENSIDE  LUMBER  AND  COAL  CO. 

Successors  to 

G.  D.  HEIST  &  SON 

Lumber    -    Miilwork    -    Builders'  Supplies 
GLENSIDE,  PA. 

WILLIAM  ZANE 

Practical  Horseshoer  and  Jobber 
Shop,  MORELAND  ROAD  AND  CHERRY  STREET 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 
All  Work  Guaranteed  Lawn  Mowers  Sharpened  in  Season 

71 


This    is    a    STUDEBAKER  Year 

ROGERS  MOTORS,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 


Black  Cake 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar;  half  cup  of  butter  or  lard;  one  cup 
milk;  one  cup  grated  chocolate,  or  five  tablespoons  of  cocoa;  three 
eggs;  one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  two  cups  of  flour. — Mrs.  H.  R.  John- 
son. 

Breakfast  Cake 

One  tblspn.  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  2  tspns.  Rum- 
ford  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour,  XA  tspn.  salt. 

For  Top:  2  tblspns.  flour,  3  tblspns.  sugar,  1  small  piece  butter, 
and  enough  cinnamon  to  darken  mixture. — Mrs.  E.  Buehler. 

Breakfast  Cake 

Mix  1  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  well-beaten  egg, 
1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  sifted,  3  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Put 
in  a  square  pan  greased  with  butter.  Thoroughly  mix  1  tblsp.  sugar 
and  1  tsp.  cinnamon,  place  on  top  of  cake  and  bake  in  an  even-heated 
oven. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Breakfast  Cake 

Beat  together  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  shortening,  1  egg,  1  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Crumbs:  %  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  piece  butter,  flavor  with 
cinnamon. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 


Speclo  *-»  s 
1510  CHESTNUT  STREET 


WOMEN'S  AND  MISSES'  APPAREL 


Good  Groceries,  Choice  Teas  and  Coffees 

are  a  specialty  with  us.  We  take  pains  to  understand  the  food  ques- 
tion, and  how  and  what  to  buy.  Our  table  supplies  are  fresh,  clean 
and  wholesome.    We  ask  no  fancy  prices.    Give  us  a  trial. 

We  have  on  hand  at  all  times  a  full  line  of  NOTIONS,  GENTS' 
FURNISHINGS,  SWEATERS,  OVERALLS,  HATS  and  CAPS. 

We  make  a  specialty  of  BOOTS  and  SHOES  for  Everybody.  Also 
Rubber  Goods. 

Also  a  Complete  Line  of  FERTILIZERS  and  SEEDS 
Headquarters  for  Penna.  Vacuum  Cup  Tires  and  Tubes 

WM.  M.  HOLBERT  Warrington,  Penna. 


72 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Butter  Cake — Layer  or  Loaf 

Three-quarters  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
milk,  2%  cups  flour,  2%  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  tspn.  flav- 
oring.— Mrs.  Lina  Paxson. 

Can't-Fail  Cake 

Cream  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  work  into  it  two  cups  of  sugar; 
sift  two  and  a  half  cups  flour  with  two  small  teaspoons  Rumford's 
baking  powder.  Add  some  of  the  flour  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  then 
add  cup  sweet  milk,  alternately  with  balance  of  flour.  Beat  man- 
fully all  the  while.  Then  fold  in  well  the  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs 
and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  forty  minutes. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Nice. 

Chocolate  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  Y2  cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  4  tspns. 
cocoa,  2XA  cups  of  flour.    Bake  in  1  loaf. — Mrs.  Wm  H.  White,  Jr. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake 

Take  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  Y2  cup  of  sour  milk, 
2  eggs,  1  tspn.  of  soda,  1  tspn.  vanilla  and  2  cups  flour.  Mix  well. 
Put  in  a  pan  xk,  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  V2  cup  brown  sugar  and 
%  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  this  and  pour  into  the  cake  boiling  hot.  Mix 
well  and  bake  slowly. 

Icing:  Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  6  tblspns.  of  boiling 
water,  2  tblspns.  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Boil  together  8  minutes 
and  pour  slowly  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Beat  until 
cool  and  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Allen. 


A  Recipe  that  Costs  Nothing 

To  one  dollar  add  a  small  amount 
each  week  and  watch  it  rise  without 
using  yeast. 

JENKINTOWN  BANK  AND  TRUST  CO. 

"Building  Good- Will  With  Personal  Service" 

FANCY  CAKES  DESSERTS 

D.  FREDERICK  KUHN 

6804  YORK  ROAD 

OAKLANE  0315  AUTO  SERVICE 

PASTRIES  FANCY  CREAMS 

73 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  economical— FOU R  PINTS  in  each  package. 


Solid  Chocolate  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  V2  cup  sour  milk, 
4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  1  tspn.  Rum- 
ford  baking  powder,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  white  of  one  egg,  beaten 
stiff.  Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Melt 
chocolate  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  and  cool.  Add  to  the  other 
ingredients.  Stir  in  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  white  of  egg  and 
%tspn.  vanilla.  Cover  with  this  icing.  IV2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  water; 
boil  until  it  will  thread.  Beat  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
add  %  teaspoon  vanilla. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Chocolate  Cake  Without  Eggs 

Cream  x/4  cup  butter  and  1  cup  powdered  sugar.  Add  %  cup 
milk,  alternately  with  IV2  cups  flour  sifted  with  IV2  tsps.  Rumford 
baking  powder.  Beat  well,  and  add  rA  cake  unsweetened  chocolate, 
melted  over  hot  water.  Bake  in  2  buttered  layer  pans  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  put  together  with  chocolate  icing.  Should  be  eaten  same 
day. — Contributed. 

Citron  Cake 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  3  cups  powdered  sugar  and  add  1  cup 
milk.  Add  4  cups  prepared  flour,  alternately  with  ten  stiffly-beaten  egg 
whites.  Use  less  flour,  if  too  stiff.  Flavor  with  rose-water,  and  stir 
in  2  cups  shredded  citron,  well  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  2  hrs.  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. — Contributed. 


BEAUTIFUL  HILLSIDE 

Conducted  on  Lawn  Plan  with  Perpetual  Care  Feature 

MAKE  YOUR  SELECTION  NOW! 

IT  IS  UNJUST  to  put  this  duty  upon  someone  else. 
YOU  CAN  DO  IT  BETTER  than  those  who  survive  you. 

LOTS  BEAUTIFULLY  LOCATED  FOR 
BURIAL  AND  MAUSOLEUM  SITES 

Prices  Reasonable 
YOUR  INSPECTION  SOLICITED 


HILLSIDE  CEMETERY 

ROSLYN,  PENNA. 


74 


KNOX  GELATINE  solves  the  problem  of  "What  to  have  for  dessert?" 


Cocoanut  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs  (reserve 
whites  of  2  for  icing),  3%  cups  flour,  2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  pow- 
der. 

Between  Layers — Grate  1  cocoanut,  and  reserve  about  1  cupful 
for  top  and  side.  To  the  remainder  add  2  large  spoonfuls  of  the 
cocoanut  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut  and  1  cup  sugar.  Put 
all  together  in  a  shallow  pan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Spread  between 
layers  after  they  are  cool. — 'Mrs.  Charles  Boyer. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  granulated  sugar,  V2  cup  butter,  % 
cup  cocoanut  milk  or  milk,  3  eggs,  1  tspn.  vanilla,  2  cups  flour,  sifted, 
2  level  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers  and  ice  with 
cocoanut  icing. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Coffee  Cake 

One  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  lump  of  lard,  1  cup  raisins,  pinch  salt, 
V2  cup  molasses,  1  cup  coffee,  1  tspn,  baking  soda  dissolved  in  the 
coffee  while  hot.    Flour  to  stiffen. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Cottage  Cake 

Two  eggs,  IY2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  IV2 
cups  flour,  IV2  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  flavoring. — Mrs.  Ad- 
die Erwin. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 


CHARLES  KIPNIS 


WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


PROPRIETOR 

KIPNIS    FLOWER  SHOP 

933  CHESTNUT  ST.,  PHILA. 


75 


FOUR  PINTS  of  jelly  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Crumb  Cake 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  IY2  cups  brown  sugar,  Vz  cup  but- 
ter. Mix  together  the  same  as  pie  crust.  Take  out  one  cup  of 
crumbs,  then  add  one  cup  of  sour  milk  and  one  tspn.  baking  soda.  Put 
in  greased  meat  pan.  Sprinkle  the  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Delicious  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour. 
Cream  sugar,  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  and  add  milk.  Mix 
2  teaspoons  of  Rumford  Baking  Powder  with  the  flour  and  beat  well. 
Fold  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  This  makes  three  layer  cake — 
any  icing  desired  may  be  used. — Mrs.  Emma  McCartney. 

Delicious  X-mas  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  %  cup  butter.  Add  2  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  beat  mixture  thoroughly.  Sift  2  cups  flour  with  3 
tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  and  add  the  greater  part  of  it  to  the 
batter,  alternately  with  1  cup  of  milk.  Add  Vi  cup  of  finely-cut  citron 
and  cup  seedless  raisins  (both  well  dregged),  and  V2,  cup  shell- 
bark  meats.  If  needed,  add  remaining  flour,  and  flavor  with  1  tsp. 
each  of  almond  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  Ice  with  boiled  icing 
into  which  1  tblsp.  of  grated  orange  peel  has  been  stirred. — Mabel 
C.  Dennison. 


JAMES  S.  JONES  &  CO. 

Slimline  Specials  for  Large  Women 

5401-7  GERMANTOWN  AVENUE 

At  Coulter  Street 

CHAS.  A.  Bell  Phone,  330  MRS.  CHAS.  A. 

BR ASHE ARS 

CATERERS 

Luncheons,  Dinners  and  Receptions  Served 
Dishes,  Linen  and  Silver  to  Hire 
103  EAST  OAKLAND  AVENUE,  DOYLESTOWN,  PA. 

President,  Miss  Mabel  C.  Dennisson      Vice-President,  Mrs.  Eliel  Roberts 

THE  LADIES'  AID  SOCIETY  OF  THE 
WILLOW  GROVE  M.  E.  CHURCH 

REGULAR  MEETING  NIGHT,  4th  TUESDAY  OF  EACH  MONTH 
Secretary,  Mrs.  James  B.  Livezey  Treasurer,  Mrs.  Wm.  B.  Cornell 

76 


Where  recipes  call  for  Gelatine  use  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Devil  Cake 

Mix,  in  the  order  given,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tblsp.  butter,  3  egg  yolks, 
%  cup  milk,  containing  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tsp.  vanilla,  and  the  beaten 
whites.  Boil  %  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  chocolate,  and  1  cup  of  sugar, 
until  chocolate  is  dissolved,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Work  in  2% 
cups  flour  with  1  tsp.  of  baking  soda,  and  bake  in  3  layers. — Mrs. 
Eva  F.  Stuckert. 

Devil  Cake 

One  lb.  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  lard,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  2Y2  cups 
flour,  Y2  cup  cocoa,  1  tspn.  soda  in  1  tblsp.  hot  coffee,  and  vanilla. 

Icing:  1  lb.  confectioner's  sugar,  2  large  tablespoons  cocoa,  large 
piece  of  butter  melted  in  1  tblsp.  hot  coffee  and  vanilla. — A.  C.  Kimbel. 

Devil's  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter  or  lard,  2  egg  yolks,  %  cup  cocoa 
dissolved  in  Y2  cup  hot  water,  Y2  cup  rich  thick  milk,  1  tspn.  baking 
soda  mixed  in  a  little  boiling  water,  2V2  cups  flour.  Stir  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  last. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Devil's  Food 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  3  tblspns.  butter,  2  ounces  melted 
chocolate,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk  (slightly  warmed),  IY2  cups  sifted  flour, 
2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream. 
Drop  eggs  in,  one  at  a  time,  whole.  Beat  until  smooth.  Bake  in 
layers;  ice  with  boiled  icing. 


FELIN'S  PORK  PRODUCTS 

NOW  IS  THE  TIME  —  ASK  FOR  AND  GET 
FELIN'S 

TASTY     o  SPICY 
SAUSAGE    Cx  SCRAPPLE 

"Have  Your  Shoes  Mended  by  the  Man  Who  Knows  How" 

ALBERTPS  WILLOW  GROVE  SHOE  HOSPITAL 

OPPOSITE  THE  POST  OFFICE,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

REASONABLE  PRICES 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

MINERAL  SPRINGS  INN 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

77 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Boiled  Icing 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  V±  cup  water,  white  of  1  egg.  Boil 
sugar  and  water  until  it  will  run  to  a  string  when  dropped  from  the 
ispoon.  Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff,  and  into  it  beat  the  syrup. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  beat  until  cold  and  smooth. — Mrs.  George 
W.  Hellings. 

DeviPs  Food 

Two  cups  of  sugar  creamed  with  a  half  cup  of  butter;  add  two 
arell-beaten  eggs;  half  cup  sour  milk  with  small  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  it;  two  teaspoons  of  vanilla;  two  and  two-thirds  cups  of 
flour.  Stir  half  cup  of  chocolate  and  a  half  cup  boiling  water  into  a 
paste,  cool  and  pour  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
Geo.  Nice. 

Devil's  Food 

Part  One:  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Part  Two:  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  scant  cup  of  grated  choco- 
late, V2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Melt  on  back  of  stove  (not  boil),  cool; 
stir  in  first  mixture  and  add  2  cups  flour,  1  tsp.  baking  soda,  and  the 
egg  whites. 

Caramel  Icing 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  %  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.    Boil  until  it  can  be  formed  in  ball,  when 


IF  YOU  ARE  ABOUT  TO  BUILD 

I  will  guarantee  you  a  fair-priced  house, 
constructed  of  good  material,  by  honest 
labor. 

GEORGE  BLILIE,  Builder 

HATBORO,  PA. 


Buy  Clothes  Anywhere  and  Save  SO  Per  Cent 

As  with  old  shoes,  you  become  attached  to  an  old  suit,  but 
time  robs  it  of  its  good  appearance,  and  you  cannot  wear  it 
indefinitely. 

But  appearances  can  be  maintained  fully  twice  as  long,  with 
intelligent  Herzog  care.  Look  better,  and  pay  much  less  for 
clothes  by  having  them  cleaned  here  regularly.  The  cost  is 
negligible. 

We  deliver  in  your  neighborhood 

I.  HERZOG  &  CO.,  Cleaners  and  Dyers 

Germantown  03-91  5904  GERMANTOWN  AVE. 


78 


See  that  the  name  K-N-O-X  is  on  each  package  of  gelatine  you  buy. 


dropped  in  cold  water.  Beat  well  after  boiling. — Mrs.  Edgar  M. 
Davenport. 

Devil's  Food 

One-third  cup  sugar,  %  cup  cocoa,  %  cup  milk.  Put  on  the  stove 
to  melt  (do  not  let  boil),  and  when  cool,  add  to  the  following:  1  cup 
sugar  V2  cup  butter,  V2  cup  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  soda, 

2  cups  flour,  flavoring  (vanilla)  to  taste.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers — as 
desired. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Cheap  Devil's  Food 

One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  3  tblsps.  cocoa,  V2  tsp.  salt.  Mix 
the  above  ingredients,  rub  in  2  tblsps.  lard  (as  for  pie  crust).  Add 
1  cup  sour  milk,  1  tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  bake. 
— Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Diamond  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  V2  cup  milk,  2  cups  sifted  flour, 

3  level  tspns.  Eumford  baking  powder,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  3  eggs 
(whites  beaten  separately). — Mrs.  E.  Rhumsyre. 

Dover  Cake 

Six  eggs,  V2  pound  butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound 
flour,  4  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Elmira  Quigley. 

Eggless,  Butterless,  Milkless  Cake 

One  tblspn.  lard,  Y2  pkg.  raisins,  V2  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  sugar, 
1  pinch  of  salt,  2  cups  flour,  1  tspn.  nutmeg,  1  tspn.  cinnamon,  1  tspn. 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.    Stew  the  raisins  in  the  water 


FOR  PROMPT  SERVICE  CALL 

BICKLEY'S 

Philadelphia,  Oak  Lane,  Ogontz,  Jenkintown  &  Willow  Grove 

AUTO  EXPRESS 

MOVING   AND  STORAGE 

Philadelphia  Office,  206  North  Fifth  Street 

Phones:  Bell,  Market  5560;  Keystone,  Main  4616 
(Listed  in  Philadelphia  Directory) 
RESIDENCE,  410  Maple  St.,  Jenkintown        Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  443  J 


L.  S.  HAGERMAN 

Undertaker 
PHILADELPHIA  -  GLENSIDE  -  WILLOW  GROVE 


79 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  dainty  desserts  for  dainty  people. 


and  add  the  other  ingredients.    Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  David  J. 

Feather  Cake    MLeL  1 0*4^ 

Two  cups  sugar,  V2  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately,  3  cups  flour,  2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  flavoring. 
Bake  in  jelly  tins. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  White,  Jr. 

Orange  Feather  Cake 

One-quarter  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
grated  rind  of  1  orange,  V2  cup  milk,  IV2  cups  sifted  flour,  1  heaping 
tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder. — Mrs.  E.  Rhumsyre. 

Fruit  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  mince  meat,  4  cups  flour,  %  cup  sugar, 
3  eggs,  *4  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tspn.  cin- 
namon, Y2  tspn.  nutmeg,  1  tspn.  vanilla,  1  level  tblspn  baking  soda. 
Pour  the  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  soda;  allow  it  to  get  cold. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  milk,  soda,  meat, 
flavoring,  and  last,  the  sifted  flour.  This  makes  a  delicious  layer  cake 
or  gems;  white  icing. 

Filling:  One  cup  boiling  water,  juice  of  lemon,  1  tsp.  butter, 
%  cup  sugar,  IV2  tspn.  corn  starch,  12  English  Walnuts.  Cut  fine. 
— Mrs.  George  Howard. 

Food  for  Angels 

Mix  2  scant  cupfuls  flour  and  IV2  teaspoons  of  Rumford  baking 
powder.  Cream  Y2  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar;  add  IY2  cups  milk 
and  the  flour  alternately,  then  V2  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  beaten  whites 

For  ART-NEEDLEWORK  YARNS 

or  GIFTS  FOR  THE  BRIDE 

VISIT 

The  Clover  Shop  in  Glenside 

Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  10-97  J  8  East  Mt  Carmel  Ave. 


DEPENDABLE  DELIVERY 

is  quite  a  consideration  in  placing  your  order  for 

LUMBER  ~  BUILDING  MATERIALS 

When  we  secure  your  order  you  can  rest 
assured  that  it  is  placed  with  a  firm  that 
is  known  for  FAIR  DEALING,  GOOD 
SERVICE,     PROMPT  DELIVERIES. 

SAMUEL  L.  SCHIVELY  LUMBER  AND  COAL 

COMPANY 

Jenkintown,  Pa.  and  Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

80 


Mortgage  investments  for  sale 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


of  four  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layer  tins  in  hot  oven.  To  boiled  icing 
add  Yz  cup  mashed  banana  for  filling,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 
—Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Fruit  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  water,  2  cups  raisins,  %  cup  lard,  2  tspns. 
cinnamon,  1  tspn.  cloves,  %  tspn.  nutmeg.  Boil  3  minutes.  When 
cold  add  1  tspn.  baking  soda  and  1%  cups  flour. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Delicious  Fruit  Cake 

One  cup  butter.  4  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  figs, 
1  cup  almonds  and  walnuts  mixed,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  citron,  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  milk,  lYz  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar  and  add  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  milk  alternately  with  flour, 
baking  powder  and  Yz  tspn.  salt  sifted  together.  Chop  fruit  and  nuts 
and  dredge  with  flour;  mix  together.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  1Y& 
hours. — Mrs.  William  Blythe. 

Ginger  Cake 

Mix  Yt.  cup  brown  sugar,  Yz  cup  baking  molasses,  Ys  cup  shorten- 
ing. Add  Y2  cup  sour  cream  or  milk,  1  tspn.  soda  (dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water),  1  tspn.  cinnamon,  1  tspn  ginger,  and  2  cups  flour.  Beat 
well  and  pour  into  buttered  pan;  bake  in  slow  oven. — Phoebe  E. 
McCartney. 


SUNTHEIMER'S  BAKERY 

Hatboro,  Pa. 


Bell  Phone,  Oak  Lane  1773  J 

H.    R.  PRINDLE 

Automobile  Repairs 
1407  72nd  AVENUE,  OAK  LANE,  PHILA. 
Allen  6c  Lafayette  Tires  and  Tubes         I.  X.  L.  Body  Braces 


Both  Phones 

HARRY  W.  WILCKE 

"Yours  for  Better  Plumbing'* 
HATBORO,  PA. 

81 


Try  KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  with  the  Lemon  Flavor  endosed. 


Ginger  Bread 

Half  pound  of  butter;  half  pound  sugar;  three  pints  flour;  six 
eggs;  one  pint  N.  O.  molasses;  two  tablespoons  ginger;  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon;  one  pint  sour  milk;  one  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  butter  to  a 
cream ;  add  sugar ;  then  the  beaten  eggs  and  soda  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  boiling  water.  Add  nutmeg  to  taste;  beat  all  together 
until  smooth.    Bake  slowly  forty-five  minutes. — Mrs.  Geo.  Nice. 


Ginger  Bread 

Beat  3  eggs,  1  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar  together.  Dissolve 
Vz  tsp.  baking  soda  in  IV2  cups  thick  milk,  and  add.  Then  add  1 
tblsp.  ginger,  1  cup  molasses,  and  4  cups  flour. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Steven- 
son. 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  4 
tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  whites  4  eggs,  vanilla.  Follow  recipe 
for  mixing  any  butter  cake,  putting  whites  of  eggs  in  last.  Bake  in 
layers  and  ice  with  ice  cream  frosting. 


Ice  Cream  Frosting 

One  cup  sugar,  3  tblsps.  hot  water,  white  of  1  egg,  XA  tspn.  vanilla. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  boiling  until  it  threads.  Pour 
syrup  on  beaten  white  of  egg,  beating  constantly  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread.  Add  vanilla. — Mrs.  Eva  F.  Stuckert. 


J.    J.  CONROY 

AUTHORIZED  DEALER 

FORD  LINCOLN  FORDSON 

DOYLESTOWN,  PA. 


MEN  Natatorium  WOMEN 

Athletics  Socials 

ciub.       ABINGTON  BRANCH  Y.  M.  C.  A.  Tennis 

Camping  Billiards 
ABINGTON,  PA. 

BOYS  Gymnasium  GIRLS 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 


JAMES  MOORE 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


82 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
AH  ksrads  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

One-quarter  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (save  whites  for 
icing),  %  cup  milk,  V-k  cups  flour,  %  cup  cornstarch,  V2  tsp.  vanilla, 
2  level  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder.— Mrs.  W.  S.  Holt. 

Jelly  Cake— Rolled 

Beat  4  eggs,  without  separating,  until  very  light;  add  1  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  and  beat  again;  stir  in  one  cup  of  sifted  flour;  turn 
into  a  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven ;  turn 
out  on  a  cloth;  break  the  edges  with  a  knife  handle.  Spread  thickly 
with  jelly  and  roll  up. — Mrs.  Elmira  Quigley. 

June  Birthday  Cake 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  hot  water, 
juice  and  rind  of  V2  lemon,  1  cup  flour,  IY2  teaspoons  Rumford  baking 
powder. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Lady  Cake 

One  and  one-quarter  cup  sugar;  half  cup  butter;  half  cup  milk; 
half  teaspoon  almond  extract;  two  cups  of  flour;  one  and  half  tea- 
spoons Rumford  baking  powder;  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  milk  and  well-beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Add  flour  and  baking  powder,  sifted  together.  Lastly  add 
flavoring.  This  makes  a  two  layer  cake.  Put  together  with  boiled 
icing  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half  cup  water  boiled  until  it 
spina  a  thread.  Then  add  to  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and 
a  quarter  teaspoon  of  almond  extract. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 


ST.  DAVID'S  CHURCH 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

r  MASS,  SUNDAY,  7.30  AND  10  A.  M. 
Services  :  \  SUNDAY  EVENING,  8.00 
(  TUESDAY  EVENING,  8.00 


CONSERVATIVE      -:-  SAFE 

THE  UNION  BUILDING  AND  LOAN  ASSOCIATION 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

We  offer  the  best  method  of  saving  to  young  and  old. 
It  will  help  you  build  your  home. 

CHAS.  L.  SCHUMACHER,  Secy 

Bell  Phones:  Residence,  Willow  Grove  I57R;  Shop,  Willow  Grove  I  1  1W 

WILLOW  GROVE  GARAGE 

GEORGE  HOBENSACK,  JR. 
Ford  Car  Repairing  a  Specialty  -  Accessories  on  Hand 
WORK  GUARANTEED 
CHERRY  STREET  AND  MORELAND  ROAD,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

83 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
We  want  to  give  you  the  best  service  possible.    Do  we? 


Layer  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  of  butter,  or  substitute,  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  3  or  4  eggs  separately  until  very  light,  add  cup  of 
sugar,  and  beat  again.  Combine  the  two  mixtures.  Sift  3  cups  of 
flour  with  3  tsps.  of  Rumford  baking  powder,  and  add  alternately 
with  1  cup  of  milk.  Fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites,  flavor  and  bake 
in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  any  icing. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S. 
Roessler. 

Layer  Cake 

Half  cup  butter;  half  cup  sugar;  three  eggs;  cup  milk;  three 
cups  flour;  two  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder;  one-third  teaspoon 
salt  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk  and  flavoring,  next  the  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
layer  cake  pans. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Three-Layer  Cake 

Cream  2  cups  sugar  and  %  cup  butter.  Add  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1 
cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  lastly, 
3  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder  and  flavoring.  Bake  20  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling 

One-half  cake  chocolate  grated,  %  cup  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  1 
tblsp.  butter,  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Cook  gently  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick,  and  beat  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  Raymond  Craweord. 


Hatboro  Flower  <S  Fruit  Farms 

HARDY  PERENNIALS 

ORNAMENTAL  SHRUBS 
DAHLIA  ROOTS 
CUT  FLOWERS 


We  do  Landscape  Gardening,  Plant  Shrubs,  Trim 
Trees,  Grade  Lawns,  Cut  Grass,  Lay  Out  Walks, 
Keep  Flower  Beds  in  Order,  Build  Rock  Gardens,  etc. 

OLD  YORK  ROAD  AND  HORSHAM  PIKE 
HATBORO,  PENNA. 


84 


Pink  Coloring  for  fancy  desserts  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Loaf  Cake 

One  teaspoonful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  or  two 
eggs,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  Rumford  baking  powder,  half 
cup  seeded  raisins,  flavor  to  taste.  Mix  butter,  lard  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  eggs  and  milk,  part  of  the  flour  sieved,  then  the  raisins, 
balance  of  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring.  Bake  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Turk's  Head  pan  is  best. — Mrs.  H. 
R.  Johnson. 

Marble  Cake 

One-half  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup  water,  2  cups  flour, 
whites  of  4  eggs,  1  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  juice  and  rind  of 
1  lemon. 

Dark  Part:  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup  water,  \xh  cups 
flour,  1  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  2  tspns.  melted  chocolate. — 
Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Marble  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  shortening,  1  or  2  eggs,  %  cup  milk, 
1%  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder,  flour  to  thicken.  For  dark 
part  take  a  little  less  than  half  the  above  mixture  and  add  about  % 
teaspoon  cinnamon  and  %  to  %  teaspoon  cloves.  Put  first  a  layer 
of  white,  then  a  layer  of  dark  batter  in  pan.  Bake  in  loaf. — Mrs. 
Horace  L.  Houpt. 


IF  YOU  ARE  WITHOUT  A  CHURCH  HOME 

Come  to  the  Willow  Grove  M.  E.  Church.    We  can  help  you. 

IF  YOU  ARE  LOOKING  FOR  CHURCH  WORK 

You  can  help  us. 

Morning  Worship  10.30;  Evening  8.00;  Sabbath  School  2.30 
Prayer  Service  Wednesday  Evening  at  8.00 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

ALMAR  STORES  COMPANY 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


HARRY  A.  PROCK  LUMBER  COMPANY 

101  EAST  MT.  CARMEL  AVENUE 
GLENSIDE,  PA. 


85 


For  Dainty  Delicious  Desserts  use  KNOX  GELATINE. 


Memorial  Hall  Cake 

Beat  2  eggs  light,  add  IV2  cups  sugar,  and  beat  again..  Sift  2 
cups  flour,  2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder  and  Y2  tsp.  salt  together 
twice,  and  mix  into  eggs.  Heat  2  tblsps.  butter  and  1  cup  milk,  add, 
and  beat. 

Cold  Icing:  1  cup  XXXX  sugar,  3  tblsps.  cocoa,  and  2Yz  tblsps. 
cold  milk. — Mrs.  Silas  C.  Morris. 

Miown  Pound  Cake 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk,  1%  cups 
flour,  IV2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Put  together  like  any  other 
pound  cake,  beating  well  before  putting  in  pan.  When  baked,  cover 
with  boiled  icing,  into  which  some  cocoanut  has  been  stirred. — 
Mabel  C.  Dennison. 

Molasses  Cake 

Two  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  tblspn.  lard  or  butter,  1  tspn. 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  1  cup  milk,  1  tspn.  cinnamon, 
2  cups  flour,  2  tblspns.  chocolate. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Mrs.  T's  Birthday  Cake 

One  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar  (creamed),  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1 
cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  Rumford  baking  powder.  Add 
lastly,  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  W. 
F.  Seibert. 


Municipal  Engineering — sewerage,  drainage,  sewage  treat- 
ment, water  supply,  design  and  revision  of  street  plans,  street 
paving,  valuation  and  construction. 

ALBRIGHT  &  MEBUS 

Civil  Engineers 

37  EASTON  ROAD,  GLENSIDE,  PA. 
1502  LOCUST  STREET,  PHILADELPHIA 


TRIBUNE  LAUNDRY 

City    and    Suburban  Delivery 

23rd  AND  CLEARFIELD  STREETS 
PHILADELPHIA 

PHONE  DIAMOND  74-41,  81-41 

86 


Simply  add  water  and  sugar  to  the  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package. 


Nut  Cake 

Cream  2  cups  sugar  with  V2  cup  of  butter.  Add  4  unbeaten 
eggs,  and  1  cup  milk.  Sift  2  cups  flour  well  with  2  tsps.  Rumford 
baking  powder  and  add  1  cup  nut  meats  and  flavoring. — Mrs. 
Raymond  Crawford. 

Nut  Cake 

Cream  well  (until  light  lemon  color)  %  cup  sugar,  4  tblsp. 
shortening  and  yolks  of  2  eggs,  then  add  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  3 
tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  scant  cup  of  milk,  and  pinch  of  salt. 
Beat  to  mix,  then  add  one  cupful  of  nut  meats  (any  kind).  Cut  and 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  bake  40  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Nan  A.  Winder. 

Old  Black  Joe  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  lard,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  %  teacup  boiling  water,  2Y2  to  2%  cups 
flour,  pinch  salt,  ^4  teaspoon  vanilla,  V2  cup  cocoa  (sifted  with  flour), 
yolk  of  egg  (if  you  are  making  icing  with  white  of  egg).  Bake  in 
three  layers. — Clara  B.  Steever. 

Old  Black  Joe  Cake 

One-half  cup  lard,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  cocoa,  1  cup  sour 
milk.  Stir  together,  add  V2  cup  boiling  water,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  1 
tspn.  vanilla  and  2V2  cups  flour. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Ritchie. 

MARTIN  GOHN 

Florist 

Fitzwatertown  Road  between  Welsh  and  Moreland 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Cut  Flowers  for  All  Occasions 
BELL  PHONE,  130  J 


HARRY  MURPHY 

The  Builder 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Can    Enclose    That    Porch  or 

Build    That    Extra  Bathroom 
BELL  PHONE,  124  W 

87 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Quick  Cake 

Put  in  bowl  %  cup  soft  butter,  VA  cups  brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
V2  cup  milk,  1%  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoons  Rumford  baking 
powder,  xk  teaspoon  cinnamon,  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  %  pound  of 
dates,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces.  Do  not  stir  until  everything  is  in 
bowl  in  the  order  named,  then  beat  for  3  minutes.  Bake  in  loaf  or  in 
muffin  tins. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Raisin  Cake 

Cream  2  cups  sugar  with  1  cup  butter,  add  4  eggs,  beaten  lightly, 
1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  2  tblspns. 
hot  water,  1  tspn.  cinnamon,  1  box  raisins.  Cook  raisins  and  let  cool 
before  using. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Carl. 

Rice  Cake  With  Fruit 

One  cup  flour,  1  cup  boiled  rice,  1  heaping  tspn.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  ingredients  with  milk.  Spread 
any  kind  of  fruit  in  bottom  of  a  buttered  pan,  then  sugar.  Spread 
dough  about  an  inch  thick  over  fruit.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes. — Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Silver  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  V2  cup  butter,  and  beat  in  the 
whites  of  4  eggs,  then  V2  cup  cold  water.  Sift  1  pt.  flour  with  1 
heaping  tsp.  Rumford  baking  powder,  and  add  gradually  to  the  first 
mixture,  beating  to  a  light  batter.  Stir  in  last  1  tsp.  rose-water,  and 
bake  in  a  loaf.    Flavor  the  icing  with  rose-water. — Contributed. 

WM.  BUSSINGER 

Builder  Realtor 
JOHNSVILLE,  PA. 

I    Can    Sell    You    a    Choice    Home    Site  and 
Build    a    House    to    Suit    Your  Fancy 


F  L  O  R  E  Y  '  S 

Good  Bricks 

ROSLYN,  PA. 

88 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE  if  you  would  be  sure  of  results. 


Sponge  Cake 

Beat  4  eggs  for  4  minutes.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  2  min- 
utes. Add  2  tablespoonsful  water  and  1  cup  of  flour  in  which  has 
been  mixed  a  teaspoonful  of  Rumford  baking  powder.  Flavor  with 
lemon  extract.  I  use  a  Dover  Egg  Beater  in  mixing  this  cake. — Mrs. 
W.  F.  Seibert. 

Sponge  Cake 

Beat  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  beat  the  yolks.  Put 
them  together  and  beat  again.  Add  IV2  cups  sugar  and  beat  again. 
Add  1  tspn.  of  baking  powder,  Eumford,  sifted  into  IV2  cups  of  flour 
3  times.  Lastly  add  %  cup  of  boiling  water,  stirring  in  a  little  at 
a  time.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  either  in  sheet  or 
layers. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Allen. 

Sponge  Cake 

Four  tresh  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sifted  flour.  Beat  sugar 
and  eggs  with  wire  egg  beater  for  15  minutes,  then  fold  in  flour  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Miller. 

Sponge  Layer  Cake 

Three  egg  yolks  separated  from  whites;  beat  whites  first  until 
stiff,  then  drop  in  yolks,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tspn.  vanilla,  1  cup  flour  into 
which  1  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  then  stir  in 
gently  %  lb.  butter  which  has  been  heated  in  3  tblspns.  of  milk.  Bake 
in  layers  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Joseph  Tressel. 


We  not  only  print  with  ink, 
but  with  grey  matter! 

We  have  been  established  since  1 869,  over  fifty 
years;  three  generations  have  helped  to  build  this 
business.  Equipped  with  the  most  modern  type  and 
machinery,  automatic  typesetting  machines  and  auto- 
matic presses  enable  us  to  furnish  first-class  work  at 
reasonable  prices. 

Printers  to  The  Board  of  Public  Education  for  over 
twenty  years.  Pretty  good  evidence  that  we  treat  our 
customers  right. 

Service  is  our  cardinal  point. 

Printing  for  Schools,  Colleges,  Hospitals,  and  insti- 
tutions and  corporations  in  general,  is  our  specialty. 

The  Walther  Printing  House 

THIRD  STREET  AND  GIRARD  AVENUE  PHILADELPHIA 

89 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  Desserts,  Salads.  Candies,  Puddings,  Ices,  etc. 


Children's  Sponge  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  IV2  cups  flour,  2  tspns.  Eumford  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  flavoring  desired.  Break  eggs  in  measuring  cup,  fill  cup  up 
with  milk  or  cream.  Sift  dry  ingredients  well,  add  egg  and  milk  and 
beat  for  5  minutes.  Bake  in  muffin  pans. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  White,  Jr. 

Eight-Minute  Sponge  Cake 

Beat  together  for  4  minutes  3  eggs  and  IV2  cups  of  sugar,  then 
add  %  cup  flour.  Beat  1  minute,  then  add  %  cup  cold  water.  Beat 
1  minute  then  add  %  cup  flour,  sifted  with  IV2  tsps.  Rumford  baking 
powder.  Beat  2  minutes  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Harold 
S.  Cassidy. 

Hot  Milk  Sponge  Cake 

Add  gradually  to  3  well  beaten  eggs  2  cups  of  sugar,  beating 
continually.  Sift  2V2  cups  flour  with  2V2  level  tsps.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  and  add,  then  beat  if  not  too  stiff.  Pour  in  1  tea  cup  of  hot 
milk  (not  boiled),  containing  tsp.  melted  butter,  and  flavor.  Makes 

3  layers. — Mrs.  Christine  D.  Sill. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  boiling  water,  2  tsp. 
Rumford  baking  powder,  2  tsp.  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar 
and  1  cup  of  flour  a  little  at  a  time,  then  the  baking  powder  with 
the  second  cup  of  flour.  Put  in  the  boiling  water  last,  a  little  at  a 
time.   Bake  in  a  loaf. — Mrs.  Eva  F.  Stuckert. 


"So  Different  from  the  Ordinary" 

Delicious  sandwiches,  a  wonderful  meat  substitute,  a 
salad  delicacy — there  are  a  hundred  different  ways  to  serve 
Wilmar.    Don't  be  without  it. 

WILM  AR  Peanut  Butter 


H.   B.  DUCKLOE 

WELD  ON,  PA. 

We  furnish  safe  and  comfortable  transportation 
Try  us  with  your  next  picnic 


J.  George  Ahrendts — George  W.  Ahrendts  Bell  Phone 

If  you  wish  first-class  work  call  us,  if  not  call  others 

AHRENDTS  &  SON 

Paper  Hangers  and  Painters 

WELSH  AND  EDGE  HILL  ROAD  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

Estimates  Furnished 

90 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake 

Beat  2  eggs  very  light.  Add  1  cup  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  1%  heaping  cupfuls  flour  sifted  with  1  tsp.  Rumford 
baking  powder,  and  lastly,  %  cup  boiling  water.  Bake  at  once. — 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Plain  Sponge  Cake 

Three  eggs;  one  cup  sugar;  half  cup  hot  water;  one  cup  sifted 
flour;  one  teaspoon  Rumford  baking  powder;  one-third  teaspoon  salt; 
grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Beat  eggs  and  half  of  sugar  till  they  thicken;  add  water  and  rest 
of  sugar  and  beat.  Add  lemon  rind,  then  flour  sifted  with  salt  and 
baking  powder,  folding  in  as  gently  as  possible.  Bake  thirty  minutes 
in  shallow  pan  that  has  been  greased  and  floured. — Mrs.  John 

MlCHENER. 

Tilden  Cake 

Cream  1  cup  butter.  Add  2  cups  pulverized  sugar,  4  eggs,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  V2  cup  corn  starch,  2  tsps.  Rumford 
baking  powder,  and  2  tsps.  lemon  extract. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

White  Cake 

Three-quarter  cup  of  butter,  1%  cup  of  sugar,  6  beaten  egg 
whites,  1  cup  of  milk,  2%  cups  of  flour,  2V2  tspns.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  1  tspn.  flavoring. — Mrs.  Lina  Paxson. 


Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  1521 

PICKWELL'S  ELECTRICAL  SHOP 

707  WEST  AVENUE,  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

Electrical  Contractor  Electrical  Appliances 


Bell  Phone 

MILLWORK 

QUICK  SERVICE  is  Our  Strong  Point 

SAMUEL  MAUGANS 

GROVANIA  AVENUE,  WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


Bell  Phone,  Filbert  2626 

T.  FRANK  MILLER 

ARCHITECT  AND  ENGINEER 

1012  WALNUT  STREET 
PHILADELPHIA 

91 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Yellow  Icing  for  Cake 

Beat  1  egg  white  stiff,  add  1  egg  yolk  and  beat  again,  then  add 
1  cup  of  XXXX  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  and  3  drops  of  vanilla  or 
orange  extract. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Custard  Filling  for  Cake 

Bring  2  cups  milk  to  a  boil  (in  double  boiler).  Beat  4  yolks  very 
light,  add  %  cup  sugar,  then  2  tblsps.  cornstarch,  moistened  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  cook  cornstarch  thor- 
oughly.   Flavor  when  almost  cold. 

Marshmallow  Filling 

Dissolve  5  tsps.  powdered  gum  arabic  in  Vz  cup  cold  water,  add 
cup  powdered  sugar,  and  boil  till  it  can  be  formed  into  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  ice  water.    Pour  on  a  stiffly-beaten  egg  white,  flavor 
with  1  tsp.  vanilla  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  spread  on 
cake  with  a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water. 

Boiled  Frosting 

Boil  slowly  together,  without  stirring,  %  cup  water  and  1  lb. 
granulated  sugar  till  it  spins  a  thread  from  a  spoon  tip.  Set  aside 
till  blood  warm,  and  then  stir  steadily  to  a  smooth,  white  cream. 
Flavor  while  stirring.  If  properly  made,  it  will  harden  when  fairly 
on  the  cake.  If  it  hardens  too  much  before  using,  set  in  warm  water 
till  softened. 


FRED.  MUSSEE 
TAILOR 

ARNOLD  AVE.,  WILLOW  GROVE 


Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  1335  Estimates  Furnished 

Jobbing  Attended  to  Promptly 

JOHN  W.  HOHLEFELDER 

CONTRACTOR  FOR  ALL  KINDS  OF 
STONE    AND   BRICK  WORK 
206  TRUST  CO.  BUILDING  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

JOHN  F.  HOFF 

Manufacturer  of 

High  Grade  Millwork,  Sash,  Doors,  Blinds,  Frames,  Stairs, 
Porches,  Fly  Screens  and  Storm  Doors 

ALL  KINDS  OF  SPECIAL  DETAIL  WORK  MADE  TO  ORDER 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

92 


Open  an  account  with  us  and  pay  by  check 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


COOKIES,  GEMS,  ETC. 


Cookies 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  tblspn.  of  mo- 
lasses, tspn.  Eumford  baking  powder,  flour  to  roll  out.  Roll  and 
spread  with  sugar  and  cinnamon;  roll  thin.  Cut  with  a  cooky  cut- 
ter.— Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Cookies 

These  cookies  are  delicious.  The  mixture  is  made  the  day  before 
it  is  baked  and  then  formed  in  a  roll  and  placed  on  ice  till  next  day. 
It  will  slice  in  paper-thin  slices  when  very  cold  and  stiff. 

To  make  these  cookies,  mix  three  beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  shortening,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  nutmeg  and  salt  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Rumford 
baking  powder.  If  necessary,  add  more  flour  to  make  thick  enough 
to  roll. — Elsie  M.  Seibert. 

Cookies 

One  cup  lard  or  butter,  IVz  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  5  tablespoons  cold 
water,  pinch  salt,  %  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 
tar, 4^6  cups  flour,  flavoring  to  taste.  Roll  in  shape  and  thickness 
desired. — Clara  B.  Steever. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

FRANK   X.  RENNINGER 

District  Attorney  of  Montgomery  Co. 


Bell  Phone.  Ogontz  764  J 

M.  A.  CLOUD 

Contracting  Plastering 

GLENSIDE,  PA. 
Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  1395  W 

CHARLES  SPAHR 

High-class   Commercial   and   Job  Printing 

EDGEHILL  ROAD  EAST  OF  ARDSLEY  AVE. 
GLENSIDE,  PA. 

93 


STUDEBAKER,    Built    to  Last 

ROGERS  MOTORS,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 


Cookies 


Cream  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  egg  (beaten).  Add 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter  and  stir.  Add  2  cups  flour 
sifted  with  4  level  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder  and  beat  well.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  pan.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  place  a  raisin 
in  the  center  of  each  cookie. — Phoebe  E.  McCartney. 


One  cup  each  of  shortening,  sugar,  and  molasses.  Stir  2  tspns. 
soda,  %  tspn.  salt)  and  1  tblspn.  ginger  into  %  cup  boiling  coffee  and 
add.    Roll  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. — Mabel  C.  Dennisson. 

Ginger  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  egg,  xk  cup  sour  milk, 
1  tblspn.  soda,  flour  to  stiffen,  %  cup  molasses,  pinch  of  salt,  ginger 
to  taste. — Mrs.  Marshall  White. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  fine  oatmeal,  1  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  V2  cup  butter, 
V2  cup  milk  with  tspn.  soda  dissolved  in  it,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
grated  orange  or  lemon  peel — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 


WOODLAND  ROAD  NEAR  OLD  YORK  ROAD 


Ginger  Cookies 


HUNTINGDON  VALLEY  BRANCH 


of  the  Manheim  Riding  Academy 
of  Germantown 


ABINGTON,  PA. 


Lessons  in  Horseback  Riding  and  Jumping 
Saddle  Horses  to  Hire 


Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  1471  W 


JOHN  A.  FOLEY 


94 


j.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Spice  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  3  cups 
flour,  1  tspn.  baking  soda,  in  3  tblspns.  thick  sour  milk,  1  tspn.  cloves, 

2  tspns.  cinnamon,  1  cup  raisins.  Drop  with  spoon. — Mrs.  Marshall 
White. 

Sugar  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  Vz  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk,  1  egg,  3  cups  flour, 
1  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  tspn.  vanilla.  Roll  thin  and  cut 
in  shape  desired.  Bake  in  hot  oven  on  floured  tin. — Mrs.  Henry  J. 
Edsall. 

Cup  Cakes 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  nuts  or  raisins, 

3  eggs,  well-beaten,  4  tablespoons  milk,  IV2  cups  flour,  2  level  tea- 
spoons Rumford  baking  powder.  Beat  the  butter  to  a. cream,  gradu- 
ally beat  in  the  sugar,  the  nuts  or  fruit,  then  the  eggs,  milk  and  the 
flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Beat  vigorously  and  bake  in  a 
dozen  small  tins,  about  18  minutes. — Mrs.  Raymond  Crawford. 

Cup  Cakes 

One-quarter  cup  butter ;  one  cup  sugar ;  one  egg  beaten  light ;  one 
small  cup  milk;  two  cups  flour;  three  level  teaspoons  Rumford  baking 
powder;  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  salt;  one-half  cup  currants  if  de- 
sired. 

Cream  the  butter;  gradually  beat  in  sugar;  alternating  with  the 
last  of  the  sugar  a  few  drops  of  milk  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the 
baking  powder  and  salt.   Cover  with  frosting. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 


THE  TRIANGLE  CLEANING  AND 

A DYEING  ESTABLISHMENT 
Bell  Phone,  Ogontz  156 
609  SUMMIT  AVENUE  JENKINTOWN,  PA. 

EXPERT  WORK  IN  ALL  LINES  OF  CLEANING  AND 
DYEING 
Work  Called  For  and  Delivered 

M.  GAMBURG 

All  Kinds  of  Livestock  Bought  and  Sold 
HATBORO,  PA. 


SUSANNA  L.  WALTON 

Notary  Public 
HORSHAM  -  PENNA. 

95 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
The  best  of  meats,  fancy  goods  and  greens 


Gems 

One  cup  molasses,  V2  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  large 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  IV3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
ginger  or  cinnamon.    Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water.    Bake  in  gem  pans. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Gem  Fruit  Cakes 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tblsp.  best  lard,  1  tblsp.  (level)  salt, 

1  cup  sugar,  3  tblsps.  best  butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  N.  O.  molasses, 
V2  tsp.  ginger,  2  tblsps.  cinnamon,  2  tblsps,  cocoa,  V2  cup  raisins, 
V2  cup  citron  and  lemon  peel  mixed,  %  cup  currants,  V2  cup  almonds 
and  walnuts  of  choice,  mixed,  1  tsp.  grated  nutmeg  for  flavor.  Mix 
all  adding  enough  flour,  containing  5  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder, 
to  make  a  nice,  thick  mixture.  Grease  bake  pans  well  with  lard  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice  with  chocolate  or  white  icing. — Mrs. 
W.  A.  Flounders. 

Ginger  Cakes 

One  pt.  baking  molasses,  V2  cup  butter,  1  tspn.  cinnamon,  1  tspn. 
ginger,  V2  tspn.  cloves,  1  egg,  1  tspn.  baking  soda  dissolved  in  boiling 
water,  V2  cup  thick  milk,  flour  to  thicken. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Ginger  Cakes 

Two  cups  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  milk, 

2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  soda,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  soda  in  molasses  until  it  foams,  beat  eggs  with  sugar.  Mix  all 
together  with  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
Frank  Niblock. 


St.  David's  Holy  Name  Society 
Willow  Grove,  Pa. 

Contractor  and  Builder  Millwork  Manufacturer 

WILLIAM  MILLER 

OFFICE,  MT.  CARMEL  AND  TYSON  AVES. 
GLENSIDE 

Office  Phone,  Ogontz  985  J  Residence  Phone,  Ogontz  273  W 

COMPLIMENTS  OF 

WM.  F.  SEIBERT 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 

96 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Ginger  Cakes 

Pint  of  N.  0.  molasses;  one  teacupful  sugar;  one  teacup  hot  wa- 
ter; eight  tablespoons  of  melted  lard;  one  tablespoon  of  ginger;  one 
tablespoon  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  Let  stand  over  night; 
roll  out  in  morning. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Ginger  Cakes 

One  pt.  baking  molasses,  xk  cup  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt, 
1  tblspn,  baking  soda,  1  tspn.  ginger,  flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  F. 
L.  Miller. 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar;  one  cup  lard;  one  cup  molasses;  one 
cup  warm  water;  two  eggs;  one  tablespoonful  soda  dissolved  in  wa- 
ter; one  tablespoonful  ginger;  five  cups  flour  (not  more,  sometimes 
four  will  do) .  Drop  in  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Johnson. 

Jumbles 

Cream  xk  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  well-beaten  egg; 
beat  well,  then  add  V±  cup  milk,  1%  teaspoons  of  Rumford  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tspn.  orange  extract  or  grated  orange  skin 
to  taste,  with  enough  flour  to  roll  out.  Cut  in  cakes  and  bake. — Mrs. 
George  W.  Hellings. 


TOY  POMERANIANS 

Imported  and  American  Bred  Puppies  and  Adults  For  Sale 

POMMETTE  (Reg.)  POMERANIANS 
MR.  and  MRS.  R.  A.  BARKER  ABINGTON,  PA. 

HISTAND  BROTHERS 

Slate  and  Tin  ROOFING  Lightning  Rods 

ALL  KINDS  OF  ROOFING  MATERIAL 

Telephones,   Doylestown  39-W,   229-W  DOYLESTOWN,  PA. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

W.    S  .  HOLT 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


97 


STUDEBAKER,    Genuine  Value 

ROGERS  MOTORS,  Jenkintown,  Pa. 


Sugar  Jumbles 

Two  cups  sugar;  one  cup  butter;  two  eggs;  five  cups  flour;  two 
heaping  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder;  one  cup  milk;  lemon 
flavoring. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  break  in  the  eggs;  sift  in  a  little 
of  the  flour  and  a  little  of  the  milk;  then  more  flour  and  milk,  with 
the  baking  powder  and  flavoring,  until  it  is  all  used.  Roll  out  a 
quarter  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
Geo.  Nice. 

Oatmeal  Macaroons 

Cream  3  level  tblspns.  butter  well,  then  add  %  cup  of  sugar,  1 
egg  unbeaten,  1  cup  of  oatmeal,  rind  of  1  lemon,  grated.  Work  to 
smooth  paste,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  well-greased  and  floured  tin. 
Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  J.  Edsall. 

Rocks 

One  scant  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  IV2  cups  sugar,  1  tblsp.  vanilla, 
2V2  cups  flour,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup  raisins,  1  heaping  tspn. 
cinnamon,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tspn.  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar ;  add  eggs.  Mix  nuts,  raisins,  cinnamon,  vanilla,  salt ; 
add  to  first  mixture.  Add  baking  soda,  then  flour.  Drop  from  tea- 
spoon on  buttered  pans.  Bake  in  fairly  hot  oven. — Mrs.  A.  W. 
Geiger. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

wm.  Mclaughlin 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

WALTER  A.  FLOUNDERS,  JR. 


Right  now — at  X-Mas — or  ANY  time,  a  copy  of  this 
Cook  Book  will  prove  a  very  acceptable  gift  to  any  house- 
wife or  bride-to-be. 

Order  through  a  Committee  member  (names  on  title 
page) . 


98 


Sand  Tarts 

Ten  oz.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  2  eggs.  Freeze  over  night 
if  possible,  next  morning  roll  out  very  thin,  brush  with  white  of  egg, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed,  then  sprinkle 
with  nuts  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — (Mrs.  J.  Raymond  Potts. 

Nut  Wafers 

One-half  pound  nut  meats,  broken  fine,  xk  pound  brown  sugar, 
3  tablespoons  flour,  XA  teaspoon  Rumford  baking  powder,  pinch  of 
salt,  2  eggs.  Mix,  drop  by  %  teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  tins.  Bake 
until  brown. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Peanut  Wafers 

Two  tblspns.  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  tspn.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  Vz  cup  flour,  2  tblspns.  milk,  %  cup  chopped  peanuts.  Drop 
from  teaspoon  on  a  buttered  tin. — Harriet  Paxson. 

Raisin  Wafers 

Two  level  tblspns.  butter,  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  scant  tblspns. 
milk,  V2  cup  flour,  1  heaping  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  tspn. 
cinnamon,  1  tspn.  lemon  juice,  1  cup  seedless  raisins.  Mix  well,  drop 
by  teaspoonfuls  on  well-floured  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
Henry  J.  Edsall. 


Enjoy 
Year  'Round 
Steady  Egg  Yield 

You  can  get  Spring  egg-yield  ev- 
ery month  of  the  year  if  your  hens 
are  healthy  and  have  strong  vitality. 

K00K00 

EGG  MASH 

keeps  fowls  in  perfect  strong  con* 
dition  and  greatly  increases  the 
egg  yield.   Wonderful  ingre- 
dients, correctly  blended  in 
iust  die  right  proportions, 
insure  this* 

Ask  for  Feeding 
Instructions 


Sold  Exclusively  By 

J.  DYRE  MOYER       WILLOW  GROVE 


99 


BREAD,  ROLLS,  BISCUITS,  MUFFINS 


A  Good,  Quick  Bread 

Mash  one  large  potato  in  4  cups  of  water  in  which  potatoes  have 
been  boiled,  add  1  tblsp.  of  sugar,  1  tblsp.  of  salt,  and  one  of  lard, 
heaped.  Mix  in  4  cups  of  flour,  and  beat  about  5  minutes,  or  until 
it  forms  bubbles,  then  add  a  yeast  cake  that  has  been  dissolved  in  a 
half-cup  of  cold  water.  Beat  again,  then  add  about  4  cups  of  flour, 
or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  5  minutes,  then  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  for  about  2  hours  or  until  light.  Form  into  4 
loaves  and  bake  about  45  min.  When  done,  it  will  give  a  hollow 
sound  if  knocked  lightly  with  the  knuckles. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S. 
Roessler. 

Wheat  Bread 

One  qt.  warm  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard,  2  table- 
spoons sugar.  Break  1  yeast  cake  in  a  glass  of  warm  water, 
thoroughly  dissolve,  and  put  into  the  above  mixture.  Put  in 
enough  flour  to  form  a  batter,  beat  thoroughly  and  put  in  enough 
flour  to  knead  into  a  large  loaf.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing it  should  be  doubled  in  size.  Knead  again  into  a  large  loaf; 
when  light  divide  into  4  loaves.  Place  in  greased  pie  plates,  also 
grease  top  of  loaves  slightly  to  prevent  crust  forming  while  rising. 
Let  rise  to  almost  double  their  size,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  45  minutes. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Rolls 

If  rolls  are  desired  instead  of  the  four  loaves  of  bread  in  the 
last  recipe,  take  two  of  the  loaves  when  dividing  and  roll  out  to  % 
inch  thickness.  Take  a  large  cutter  and  cut  into  round  cakes;  butter 
one-half  and  turn  over  the  one-half  and  fold  together.  Place  in  a 
long  bake  pan  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Four  cups  flour,  1  tspn.  salt.  6  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder, 
IV2  cups  milk,  2  tblspns.  shortening.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder  together.  Melt  the  shortening,  add  to  the  milk,  and  add  this 
liquid  slowly  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  until  smooth,  turn  on  a 
floured  board,  knead  lightly  and  roll  out  V2  in  thick.  Cut  with  a 
biscuit  cutter.  Crease  with  a  knife  each  circle  beyond  the  center, 
butter  small  section  and  fold  large  section  well  over.  Put  in  greased 
pan,  allow  to  stand  15  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  brush  each  with 
melted  butter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes.— 
Mrs.  S.  M.  Whitaker. 

Butter  Biscuit 

Four  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  level  tablespoons  of  Rumford 
baking  powder,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  mix  and  rub  in  6  tablespoons 
butter.  Add  1  egg  and  1  cup  milk.  Turn  on  "board  and  roll  out  V2 
thick;  brush  well  with  melted  butter1  and  fold  over  in  half.  Pat 
gently  with  rolling  pin  and  cut  in  squares.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  20 
minutes. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 


100 


English  Tea  Biscuit 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  2  tspns. 
Rumford  baking  powder.  Sift  together  well  and  set  1  cup  aside.  To 
the  remainder  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  1 
tspn.  vanilla;  this  will  make  a  thin  batter.  Do  not  add  more  flour, 
just  pour  into  2  well  greased  and  floured  jelly  tins.  Add  1  tspm 
cinnamon  to  the  ingredients  set  aside  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  of 
cakes  and  bake.  Do  not  remove  from  pan  while  hot;  let  cool  first. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  H.  White,  Jr. 

Home-made  Biscuit 

Four  quarts  flour;  one  cup  sugar;  two  tablespoons  lard;  small 
tablespoon  salt;  nutmeg  to  taste;  one  quart  of  scalded  milk  and  wa- 
ter, or  all  milk.  When  cool  enough  add  yeast  cake  and  let  rise  all 
night.  In  morning  make  into  small  biscuits  and  let  rise  again,  then 
bake  thirty  minutes. — iMrs.  Geo.  Nice. 

Cinnamon  Bun 

Bring  %  pt.  of  milk  to  a  boil,  cool,  add  a  yeast  cake,  broken  up, 
V2  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1  egg,  1  tblsp.  of  butter  (melted), 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Add  about  3%  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make 
stiff,  and  let  raise  over  night.  Add  more  flour,  if  needed,  next  morn- 
ing, and  roll  out.  Spread  with  cinnamon,  brown  sugar,  and  raisins, 
and  dot  with  butter.  Grease  pans  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  well  with 
brown  sugar.  Cut  rolled  dough  in  1  inch  strips,  and  let  raise  again 
for  3  to  4  hours.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes. — 
Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 

Corn  Bread 

One  egg,  2  cups  cornmeal,  1  cup  flour,  2  tblspns.  melted  butter, 

1  tspn.  salt,  2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  2  tblspns.  sugar,  1  pt. 
sweet  milk. — Mrs.  Addie  Erwin. 

Virginia  Batter  Bread 

One  cup  cornmeal,  2  cups  boiling  water.  Beat  free  from  lumps, 
then  add  2  tablespoons  syrup,  3  tablespoons  melted  shortening,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder,  yolk  1  egg,  1  cup 
of  milk  or  water.  Mix  carefully  in  the  order  given.  Fold  in  beaten 
white  of  the  egg,  then  pour  in  well  greased,  hot,  baking  pan.  Bake 
35  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Muffins 

One-half  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  %  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  Rumford 
baking  powder,  IV2  cups  flour.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  W.  R. 
Pugh. 

Muffins 

Two  cups  flour,  1  tblspn.  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  tspns.  Rumford 
baking  powder,  V2  tspn.  salt,  2  eggs,  1  tblspn.  shortening.  Sift  to- 
gether flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt;  add  milk,  well  beaten 
eggs  and  melted  shortening;  mix  well.    Grease  muffin  tins  and  put 

2  tblspns.  butter  into  each.  Bake  in  hot  oven  20  to  25  minutes. — 
Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 


101 


We  pay  interest  on  deposits 

Jenkintown  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


Muffins 

One  tablespoon  sugar;  two  tablespoons  melted  butter;  one  egg; 
one  cup  milk;  half  teaspoon  salt;  two  teaspoons  Rumford  baking 
powder;  two  cups  flour.  Add  sugar  and  butter  and  milk  to  well 
beaten  egg;  then  add  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  sifted  together. 
Bake  in  muffin  tins  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Hot  Muffins 

Two  eggs,  2  tblspns.  sugar,  1  tblspn.  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  tspn.  salt.  Makes  16  muffins. 
— Eva  M.  Duffield. 

Manhattan  Muffins 

One-quarter  cup  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  %  tspn.  salt,  4  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Cream  butter, 
add  gradually  the  sugar,  beating  constantly,  then  add  well  beaten 
egg,  milk,  flour  with  salt  and  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. — Mrs.  Harold  S. 
Cassidy. 

Tea  Rolls 

Put  into  1  qt.  sifted  flour,  1  tsp.  sugar,  1  heaping  tsp.  salt,  1  tblsp. 
lard,  1  tblsp.  butter.  Dissolve  xk  cake  compressed  yeast  in  a  little 
water  and  put  in  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  with  the  flour;  cover  to  rise. 
When  light,  roll  out  Vz  inch  thick.  Cut  with  round  cutter  two  sizes, 
placing  small  rolls  on  top  of  large,  with  a  little  melted  butter  be- 
tween. Let  rise  about  an  hour  and  bake  one-half  hour.  These  must 
be  set  at  10  A.  M.  for  a  six  o'clock  meal,  or  over-night  for  breakfast. — 
Mrs.  E.  S.  Roberts. 

Rolls— (Baker's) 

When  serving  baker's  rolls,  try  heating  them  in  oven.  They  are 
like  fresh  baked. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Nut  Bread 

4  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar  or 

6  teaspoons  Rumford  more  if  desired 

Baking  Powder  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  to  1V2  cups  milk 

1  cup  broken  walnut  meats 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Rub  in  butter 
with  finger  tips.  Add  milk  slowly.  Mix  to  a  smooth  dough.  Add 
walnuts.  Turn  into  well  greased  bread  pan.  Set  in  a  warm  place  and 
let  rise  fifteen  minutes.  Brush  top  with  melted  butter.  Bake  about 
one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Makes  one  medium  sized  loaf. — Con- 
tributed. 


102 


CRULLERS,  DOUGHNUTS, 
GRIDDLE  CAKES 


Crullers 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  9  tablespoonfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  Rumford  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. — Mrs.  Edgar  M. 
Davenport. 

Crullers 

Four  to  6  eggs  well  beaten,  IV2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  tblspn. 
salt,  3  tblspns.  best  lard,  4  tblspns.  best  butter,  6  cups  flour,  6  tspns. 
Rumford  baking  powder,  1  quart  rich  milk,  grated  nutmeg,  %  tspn. 
Cream  eggs,  butter,  lard,  salt,  sugar.  Add  milk,  then  some  flour 
gently  sifted  and  baking  powder.  Add  enough  flour  to  prevent  stick- 
ing when  rolled  on  board.  Roll  flat,  cut  round,  fry  in  good  hot  lard 
until  brown;  sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  cinnamon.  This 
makes  about  5  dozen. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Flounders. 

Crullers 

One  heaping  cup  sugar,  6  tblspns.  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
milk,  2  rounding  tspns.  cream  of  tartar,  1  rounding  tspn.  baking  soda, 
pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  rather  soft,  roll  and  fry  in 
hot  fat.    This  makes  4  dozen. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Crullers 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  Y2  cup 
butter,  IV2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  flour  to  thicken. — Mrs. 
Addie  Erwin. 

Crullers 

Two  eggs,  V2  cup  butter,  %  cup  lard,  1  qt.  flour,  %  cup  milk, 
IV2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  V2  tspn.  salt,  V2  tspn.  grated 
nutmeg. — Mrs.  Samuel  Ramsey. 

Crullers 

One  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  butter  and  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  % 
cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tspn.  Rumford  baking  powder,  flour  to 
stiffen  until  you  can  roll  it  out.  Mix  sugar  and  lard,  add  egg  and 
milk,  then  flour.  Roll  %  inch  thick,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  fat. — Mrs. 
S.  M.  Whitaker. 

Cream  Crullers 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  2  cups  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs,  2 
tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  tspn.  vanilla,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
salt,  flour  to  roll  out  soft.    Fry  in  hot  fat.— Eva  M.  Duffield. 

Crullers 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  a  little  salt,  1  tsp.  Rumford 
baking  powder,  3  tblsps.  butter.  Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  until  very 
light,  then  add  the  milk  and  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  handle. — Mrs. 
Raymond  Slight. 


103 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Doughnuts  That  Keep 

Boil  and  mash  fine  5  medium  size  potatoes.  Add  IY2  cups  sugar, 
3  teaspoons  melted  butter,  1  cup  milk,  4  level  teaspoons  Rumford 
baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  little  nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 
These  doughnuts  keep  moist. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Dropped  Doughnuts 

One-half  cup  sugar,  Y2  cup  milk,  1  egg,  beaten  separately,  Yz  tea- 
spoon salt,  Ys  teaspoon  nutmeg,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  IY2  cups  flour, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  Rumford  baking  powder.  Fry  in  deep  fat, 
turning  often. — Nan  A.  Winder. 

Mary  Mills'  Doughnuts 

One  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  3  teaspoons 
Rumford  baking  powder,  IV2  cups  sweet  milk,  V2  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  little  hot  water,  flour  to  roll  out — not  too  stiff. — Mrs.  W.  F. 
Seibert. 

Raised  Doughnuts 

Add  1  cake  yeast,  dissolved  in  warm  water,  to  cup  scalded  milk. 
Beat  in  2  cups  flour  and  let  rise.  Add  %  cup  sugar,  xk  cup  butter, 
melted,  Yz  tspn.  salt,  1  egg,  Yz  tspn.  cinnamon,  and  2Y2  cups  flour, 
beaten  in  well.  Let  rise  3  to  4  hours,  turn  on  floured  board,  but  do 
not  knead.  Roll  quickly  to  Yz  inch  thickness,  shape  and  let  rise  on 
board  till  double  in  bulk.  This  takes  an  hour.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain 
on  brown  paper,  and  roll  in  sugar. — Mrs.  Raymond  Crawford. 

Griddle  Cakes 

Two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of 
milk,  three  teaspoons  of  Rumford  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  egg. 

Cook  on  well  greased  griddle  pan  and  serve  with  maple  syrup. 
These  are  delicious. — Mrs.  John  Michener. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 

One  cup  of  corn  meal  scalded  with  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  cup 
milk,  1  egg  (well-beaten),  Y2  tspn.  salt,  Y2  tblspn.  molasses  or  sugar, 
Y2  tblspn.  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  heaping  tspn.  Rumford 
baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  bake  on  hot  griddle. — Mrs.  Henry  J. 
Edsall. 

Potato  Pan  Cake 

Six  large  potatoes,  1  cup  flour,  1  tblspn.  salt,  3  or  4  eggs  (well- 
beaten).  Mix  and  beat  all  together.  Put  about  tablespoon  lard  on 
pan  and  allow  to  get  very  hot.  Drop  mixture  on  pan  from  a  dipper, 
each  dipperful  forming  a  cake. — Mrs.  A.  Arenz. 

Waffles 

1  qt.  flour,  1  tblspn.  butter,  3  eggs,  IY2  pts.  milk,  Y2  tspn.  salt, 

2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add 
the  salt  and  mix.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  add  the 
milk;  add  these  to  the  flour.  Put  baking  powder  in  center  of  batter, 
stir  in  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  at  once. — Mrs.  David  J. 
Nolan. 

104 


BUTTERS,  JAMS,  JELLIES 


Grape  Butter 

Three  qts.  grapes,  2  qts.  apple  sauce,  4  lbs.  sugar.  Remove  grapes 
from  stems,  wash  and  cook,  put  through  colander,  cook  until  thick. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  H.  White,  Jr. 

Lemon  Butter 

Two  pounds  sugar,  three  cups  water,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch,  juice  and  rind  of  two 
lemons.  Beat  sugar,  eggs,  butter  and  cornstarch  until  creamy  then 
add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  the  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
smooth  and  clear,  then  use  as  sauce. — Mrs.  Geo.  Nice. 

Lemon  Butter 

One  cup  of  sugar,  Vz  cup  of  water,  3  eggs,  2  lemons,  lump  of  but- 
ter. Stir  continually  over  a  slow  fire,  until  it  thickens. — 'Mrs.  Edgar 
M.  Davenport. 

Lemon  Butter 

One  lb.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter,  5  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  3  or  4 
lemons;  cook  all  together  until  thick. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Gilbert. 

Lemon  Butter 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons, 
small  piece  butter.  Boil  in  double  boiler  for  20  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  R. 
Ritchie. 

Lemon  Butter 

Three  lemons,  six  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar. — Mrs.  Clarence  Ely. 

Peach  Butter 

Three  cups  peaches  (ground),  3  cups  sugar,  cinnamon  in  a  bag. 
Boil  until  thick.— Mrs.  W.  S.  Holt. 

Tomato  Butter  (Without  Spices) 

Scald  a  %  basket  of  red  tomatoes  and  take  out  the  seeds  with 
the  fingers.  Measure  1  qt.  of  sugar  to  a  qt.  of  pulp.  Cook  pulp  and 
sugar  together  very  slowly  for  four  or  five  hours  until  dark  red,  and 
very  thick,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  When  partly  done  add 
lemon  to  taste.  (Peach  butter  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner, 
omitting  the  lemon). — Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Apricot  Jam 

One  lb.  apricots,  IV2  lbs.  sugar,  IV2  qts.  water.  Wash  apricots 
and  let  stand  in  the  IV2  qts.  water  for  24  hours  then  add  sugar  and 
boil  slowly  about  1  hour. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Miller. 

Cherry  Jam 

Two  pounds  cherries,  5  cups  sugar,  2V2  cups  water.  Put  sugar 
and  water  on  fire,  cook  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Gradually  drop  in 
cherries.  Keep  boiling,  take  scum  ofi°,  cook  about  V2  hour.  Test  in 
saucer,  if  it  thickens  put  in  tumblers. — Mrs.  Horace  L.  Houpt. 


105 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
Step  oyer  our  door  sill  and  profit  thereby 


Heavenly  Jam 

Six  lb.  of  grapes,  5  lb.  of  sugar,  1  box  of  raisins,  2  oranges.  Wash 
and  take  pulp  from  skins  and  boil,  then  work  through  a  sieve.  Peel 
the  oranges  and  put  them  through  a  grinder.  Add  skins,  raisins  and 
oranges  to  the  pulp  and  sugar.  Boil  about  ten  minutes.  Put  in  jelly 
glasses  and  cover  with  wax. — Mrs.  Raymond  Slight. 

Elderberry  Jelly 

Four  quarts  of  elderberries;  four  quarts  apples.  Cover  with 
water  and  cook  until  apples  are  soft,  then  strain  through  jelly  bag 
and  add  one  cup  granulated  sugar  for  every  cup  of  juice.  Boil  until 
it  jellies. — Mrs.  Geo.  Nice. 

Ginger  Pears 

Six  lbs.  sugar,  %  lb.  green  ginger  root,  3  lemons  (juice  and  rind), 
8  lbs.  green  pears,  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  tumbler  of  water.  Soak  the 
ginger  over  night;  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  together  the  tumblerful 
of  water,  sugar,  ginger  and  pears.  When  nearly  done,  add  the  juice 
and  rinds  of  the  lemons,  cut  in  thin  strips.  Cook  until  syrup  thickens, 
then  put  in  jelly  glasses!  and  seal  with  paraffine. — Mrs.  John  S. 
Mason. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Two  oranges,  one  grape  fruit,  1  lemon.  Wash  fruit  well,  starting 
at  blossom  end,  slice  thinly  as  possible,  rejecting  seeds  only. 
Measure  fruit  and  add  three  times  as  much  water.  Let  stand 
over  night,  then  boil  ten  minutes  only.  Let  stand  over  night  again, 
then  boil  another  ten  minutes.  Let  stand  over  third  night,  measure, 
and  add  as  many  pints  of  sugar.  Boil  hard  about  IV2  hours.  The 
quicker  this  is  cooked  the  lighter  the  color.  Fills  IV2  doz.  jelly 
glasses. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Eight  lbs.  kieffer  pears,  3  oranges,  4  lbs.  sugar.  Peel  oranges 
and  remove  the  white  inner  skin.  Put  all  through  the  meat-chopper; 
then  cook  until  thick.    Put  in  pint  jars. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Plum  Conserve 

Three  lb.  plums,  seeded,  SV2  lbs.  sugar,  3  oranges  cut  in  small 
pieces,  rejecting  the  seeds  and  the  white  center.  One  lb.  of  seeded 
raisins,  one  cup  water,  V2  pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook  from 
40  minutes  to  1  hour.  When  done  add  V2  lb.  black  walnuts.  If  too 
thick,  thin  with  hot  water. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Gilbert. 

Quince  Honey 

One  good  sized  quince,  grated,  2  apples,  grated,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  pt. 
water.  Boil  without  skimming,  until  like  honey.  Then  put  in  jelly 
glasses,  and  seal  with  paraffine.  This  is  delicious. — Mrs.  John  S. 
Mason. 


106 


PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


Bordeaux  Sauce 

One  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  2  gallon  of  cabbage,  1  ounce  of 
cloves,  1  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  1  ounce  of  celery  seed,  IV2  ounces 
of  mustard  seed  (mixed  brown  and  yellow),  1%  pounds  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  salt,  1  gallon  of  vinegar.  Boil  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Edgar  M. 
Davenport. 

Baltimore  Pickle 

Two  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  2  qts.  green  tomatoes,  1  large  head 
cabbage,  12  medium-sized  onions,  3  red  peppers.  Chop  fine  and  salt 
over  night.  Drain  and  add  2  qts.  of  vinegar,  IV2  lbs.  sugar,  V2  cup 
yellow  mustard  seed,  V2  cup  grated  horse  radish,  and  1  tblsp.  celery 
seed.   Boil  about  V2  hour. — Mary  Fryling. 

Chili  Sauce 

Run  through  meat  grinder  or  chop  very  fine  8  qts.  of  skinned 
ripe  tomatoes,  1  lb.  of  fresh  red  peppers  (no  seeds),  and  3  lbs.  white 
onions.  Add  1  doz.  sour  apples,  sliced  very  thin,  2  or  3  pints  of  cider 
vinegar,  IV2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  small  tblspn.  ground  cloves,  2  small 
tblspns.  ground  allspice,  and  salt  and  pepper  (red  or  black)  to  taste. 
Boil  till  apples  are  thoroughly  cooked. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Chili  Sauce 

Scald  V2  pk.  ripe  tomatoes,  remove  skins  and  cut  fine,  removing 
as  many  seeds  as  possible.  Place  in  preserving  kettle  over  fire,  add 
4  large  onions  sliced  fine,  2  green  and  2  red  peppers  (sweet),  1  tsp. 
ground  mustard,  1  tspn.  ground  cinnamon,  1  tspn,  whole  cloves,  1 
tspn.  whole  allspice,  1  tspn.  celery  seed,  2  tblspns.  salt,  V2  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  vinegar.  Boil  until  nice  and  thick,  remove  from  fire,  put  in 
air  tight  jars  or  bottles. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Flounders. 

Chili  Sauce 

One-half  pk.  ripe  tomatoes,  8  red  peppers,  5  large  onions,  5  cups 
vinegar,  3  tblspns.  sugar,  2  tblspns.  salt,  2  tblspns.  celery  seed.  Mix 
all  together  and  cook  1  hour. — Mrs.  Samuel  Ramsey. 

Chili  Sauce 

Twenty-four  tomatoes,  3  green  peppers,  3  onions,  V2  cup  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  salt,  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  V2  teaspoon  allspice,  V±  teaspoon 
cloves,  %  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  celery  seed,  IV2  cups  vine- 
gar.— Mrs.  Raymond  Crawford. 

Chili  Sauce 

Thirty-five  ripe  tomatoes,  3  peppers,  1  bunch  celery,  10  onions, 
1  cup  sugar,  5  tblspns.  salt,  5  cups  vinegar.  Boil  two  hours. — Mrs. 
S.  C.  Morris 

Chili  Sauce 

Pare  and  chop  fine  V2  pk.  large  tomatoes,  4  onions,  6  green  pep- 
pers. Mix,  then  add  2V2  tblspns.  of  salt,  4  tblspns.  sugar,  SV2  cups 
vinegar,  1XA  tblspns.  cinnamon,  1  tblspn.  mustard,  xk  tspn.  cayenne 
pepper.    Boil  IV2  hours  and  bottle  as  catsup. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Howarth. 


107 


Building  Sites 

Along  the  Old  York  Road 
are  growing  scarcer  and 
more  costly  every  day 

A  few,  reasonably-priced,  still  remain  at 
York  Road  Heights,  Willow  Grove 

Ideal  location 
Beautiful  view 

Easily  accessible  to  both  train 
and  trolley 

Electric  lights 

Gas 

Water 

Sidewalks 


Residences  built  to  order,  if  desired 


HENRY  SPECHT 

Builder 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


108 


Chow-Chow 

One  dozen  ears  corn,  1  qt.  lima  beans,  1  qt.  string  beans,  salt, 
parboil;  1  dozen  peppers,  1  head  cabbage,  1  qt.  small  onions,  1  head 
cauliflower,  2/4  pk.  green  tomatoes,  2  qts.  vinegar,  2  tblsps.  mustard,  2 
tblsps.  cornstarch,  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  tblsps,.  celery  seed.  Boil  all  to- 
gether one  hour.  Makes  six  quarts. — Mrs.  Raymond  Slight. 

Chow  Chow 

Two  qts.  green  tomatoes,  1  qt.  string  beans,  1  qt.  small  onions, 
1  qt.  celery,  1  pt.  lima  beans,  1  head  cauliflower;  cut  these  vegetables 
in  small  pieces  and  cook  each  one  separately  until  tender.  Mix  well, 
then  add  2  qts.  vinegar,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  %  lb.  celery  seed,  %  lb. 
whole  cloves;  boil  this  20  minutes  from  the  time  it  starts  to  boil. 
Just  before  removing  from  fire,  mix  3  tblspns.  mustard,  1  tspn.  tu- 
meric, 2  tblspns.  flour,  with  a  little  water  as  you  would  for  gravy, 
stir  in  the  boiling  pickle,  remove  at  once  and  put  in  jars.  Do  not  let 
boil  after  mustard  has  been  added  ,as  it  will  become  soft. — Mrs.  Wm. 
H.  White,  Jr. 

Green  Tomato  Chow-Chow 

Chop  fine  1  pk.  green  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  and  6  red  peppers, 
add  2  tblspns.  of  vinegar,  and  bring  to  scalding  point.  Drain  in 
colander.  To  3  pts.  of  hot  vinegar  add  2%  cups  of  sugar,  1  box  of 
mustard  mixed  with  vinegar,  2  tblspns.  of  celery  seed,  and  3  tblspns. 
of  salt.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  boil  about  30  minutes.  When  nearly 
done  add  1  small  tsp.  of  tumeric  powder.  Very  good. — Mrs.  W.  R. 
Pugh. 

Corn  Chowder 

Eighteen  ears  corn,  cut  from  cob,  1  bunch  celery,  cut  fine,  1  lb. 
sugar,  3  tblspns.  salt,  2  tblspns.  ground  mustard.  6  green  and  red 
peppers,  1  qt.  vinegar  .  Mix  thoroughly,  boil  30  minutes.  Jar  hot. — 
Mrs.  Christine  D.  Sill. 

Corn  Pickle 

One  qt.  green  tomatoes,  1  qt.  lima  beans  (boil  partly  done) ,  1  pt. 
cut  corn,  1  pt.  string  beans  (break  in  pieces,  boil  partly  done),  1  pt. 
small  onions,  1  cup  sugar,  4  peppers,  salt  to  suit  taste,  1  qt.  vinegar, 
V±  lb.  yellow  mustard,  and  a  little  tumeric  mixed  so  as  to  give  it  a 
nice  color.   Boil  together  for  %  hour. — Mrs.  B.  Margerum. 

Cora  Relish 

Twelve  ears  corn,  6  peppers,  1  head  of  cabbage,  6  onions,  cut  fine ; 
IV2  qts.  vinegar,  V2  cup  salt,  2  cups  sugar,  4  tspns.  mustard,  2  tspns. 
tumeric  powder.  Cook  all  together  about  %  hour. — Mrs.  Samuel 
Ramsey. 

French  Pickles 

Two  qts.  cauliflower,  2  qts.  green  tomatoes,  2  qts.  small  white 
onions,  6  green  peppers,  1  doz.  sour  pickles.  Sprinkle  with  one  cup 
of  salt,  let  stand  over  night.  In  morning  cook  in  salt  water  20  min- 
utes, then  drain. 

Dressing 

2  qts.  vinegar,  2  cups  white  sugar,  6  tblspns.  ground  mustard,  % 
cup  flour,  1  tblspn.  tumeric.  Cook  until  a  little  thick,  then  pour  over 
pickles. — Mrs.  W.  H.  White,  Jr. 


109 


Raise  'em  The  FJL-o-pep  Way 

The  Ful-O-Pep  Way  of  Feeding  chicks  has  changed  the  old  expensive 
"grain  feeding  way"  and  has  proven  to  poultry  raisers  that  the  old  method 
of  grain  feeding  is  all  wrong.  The  Ful-O-Pep  Way  of  feeding 

Gives  You  1  Pound  of  Gain  at  Cost  of  2  Pounds  of  Feed 

instead  of  only  1  pound  of  gain  to  each  4  pounds  of  feed,  which  is  the  basis 
of  figuring  cost  of  production  arrived  at  by  experiment  stations  covering 
several  years  experiments  with  grain  feeding.  Why  continue  to  feed  this 
old  expensive  way  when  The  Ful-O-Pep  Way  will  give  you  the  same  gains 
with  only  half  the  feed? 


Costs  Less  Per  Pound  of  Gain  Made  Than  Any  Other  Feed 

The  Ful-O-Pep  Way  consists  of  feeding  Ful-O-Pep  Growing  Mash  from  the 
very  start — continuously  keeping  it  before  your  birds  all  the  time.  Ful-O-Pep 
Growing  Mash,  because  of  the  high  feeding  value  of  its  Oatmeal,  fish  and 
bone  contents  goes  twice  as  far  as  grain  feeds — every  ounce  is  digested  by 
chicks'  delicate  digestive  organs — there  is  no  waste  and  when  compared  with 
results  cost  only  half  as  much  in  pounds  of  feed  consumed  for  gains  in  pounds 
of  meat  produced.  Furthermore,  your  losses  from  bowel  and  digestive  troubles 
that  arise  from  feeding  hard  indigestible  grains,  will  be  very  much  less  and 
your  flock  will  be  of  even  growth  and  development.  Give  The  Ful-O-Pep  Way 
a  trial  this  season — it  will  reduce  your  feed  costs  and 
materially  increase  your  profits. 

MADE  BY 

The  Quaker  Qats  (bmpany 

Address:  Chicago,  V.  S.  A. 

FOR  SALE  BY 

J.   DYRE  MOVER 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


no 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 


Green  Tomato  Pickle 

Four  qts.  green  tomatoes,  4  green  peppers,  4  large  onions.  Slice 
or  cut  fine  and  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  lb.  sugar,  V±  lb. 
white  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  and  1  qt.  good  cider  vinegar.  Boil  all  to- 
gether until  well  heated  through;  can  in  air  tight  jars. — Mrs.  Eva  F. 
Stuckert. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes,  12  onions,  1  quart  vinegar,  2  pounds 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoon 
cloves,  12  peppers.  Chop  all  fine  and  steam  43  minutes. — Mrs. 
Elmira  Quigley. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle 

One-half  pk.  green  tomatoes,  6  onions,  6  peppers  (green),  %  cup 
salt,  2  tablespoons  cloves,  2  tablespoons  allspice,  2  tablespoons  mus- 
tard, 1  tablespoon  tumeric,  %  cup  sugar.  Cut  tomatoes,  onions  and 
peppers  and  sprinkle  with  salt  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain. 
Then  cover  with  vinegar  and  cook  until  tender. — 'Mrs.  W.  F.  Seibert. 

Green  Tomato  Relish 

One  qt.  white  vinegar,  3  qts.  green  tomatoes,  1  qt.  onions,  9  pep- 
pers, green  and  red,  XA  cup  salt,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tblspns.  celery  seed, 
3  tblspns.  mustard,  2  tblspns.  ground  ginger,  1  tspn.  tumeric,  ground. 
Boil  all  together  15  minutes  and  seal  in  jars. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 

India  Relish 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  6  peppers,  chopped 
fine,  squeeze.  Two  cups  sugar,  2  tblspns.  mustard,  2  tspns.  salt,  2 
tspns.  celery  seed,  1  quart  vinegar.  Cook  one  hour,  put  in  jars  hot. 
— Mrs.  S.  C.  Morris. 

Pepper  Relish 

One  doz.  green  peppers,  1  doz.  red  peppers,  1  doz.  onions.  Put 
all  through  coarse  grinder,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  let  stand  5 
minutes.  Drain  and  pour  boiling  water  over  and  stand  20  minutes. 
Drain  and  add  1  qt.  vinegar,  3  cups  sugar,  2  tblspns.  salt.  Cook  20 
minutes,  bottle  and  seal. — Mrs.  Clarence  Ely. 

Pepper  Relish 

Twelve  sweet  green  peppers,  12  red  peppers,  16  small  white 
onions;  grind  all  together,  scald  twice.  Add  1  scant  quart  vinegar, 
%  cup  salt,  3  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  celery  seed,  2  teaspoons  mus- 
tard seed  and  boil  30  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 

Pepper  and  Onion  Relish 

Clean  and  chop  2  dozen  peppers  and  2  lbs.  of  onions.  Scald  both 
first  for  10  minutes,  then  again  for  20  minutes;  then  cook  with  1  lb. 
of  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  and  spices  (cinnamon,  cloves,  celery  seed  and 
allspice  to  suit  taste),  until  tender. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 


Ill 


OVERLOOK  HILLS 

50  Ft.  Improved  Lots — $1,000  and  up 


William  P.  Albrecht 


W.  Clyde  Gourley 


Albrecht  &  Gourley 

TReal  Estate 

YORK  ROAD  AT  WELSH  ROAD 
WILLOW  GROVE 

Phone,  Willow  Grove  47 


Plans  Drawn 


Estimates  furnished 


Insurance 

Furniture 
Fire 

Burglary 

Compensation 

Title 

Accident  and  Health 


Wills  Drawn 
Mortgages  Placed 
Conveyancing 
Automobile  Licenses 
Rents  Collected 
Building 
Notary  Public 


112 


Safe  Deposit  Boxes  for  rent 

Je nk into wn  Bank  and  Trust  Company 


Pickled  Beets 

Twelve  beets,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  1  cup  red  beet  water, 
%  teaspoon  celery  seed,  %  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  xk  teaspoon  stick 
cinnamon  and  a  little  salt.  Cook  beets  until  done.  Make  a  syrup  of 
the  sugar,  vinegar,  beet  water  and  salt.  Tie  spices  in  bag,  boil  spices 
in  syrup  a  few  minutes  and  pour  over  beets  in  jars.  Do  not  have 
beets  cold. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Shadel. 

Pickled  Cherries 

Pit  cherries,  weigh  and  cover  with  vinegar;  let  stand  over  night, 
drain  vinegar  off  and  to  each  pound  of  cherries  add  1  lb.  of  sugar. 
Let  stand  and  stir  every  morning  for  ten  mornings,  then  put  in  jars. 
No  cooking  required. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 

Tomato  Pickle 

One  gal.  tomatoes,  1  qt.  vinegar,  12  large  onions,  1  lb.  sugar, 
celery  seed,  1  tblspn.  whole  cloves,  1  tblspn.  allspice,  2  tblspns.  salt, 

2  tblspns.  pepper,  1  tblspn,  mustard,  3  peppers.  Boil  until  tender — 
Mrs.  Marshall  White. 

Tomato  Relish 

If  a  relish  is  desired  for  immediate  use,  put  3  large  tomatoes, 
1  pepper,  and  1  or  more  onions  through  the  grinder,  and  add  1  tspn. 
of  sugar,  %  tspn.  of  salt,  and  vinegar. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  S.  Roessler. 

Tomato  Catsup 

Slice  a  peck  of  unpeeled  tomatoes  with  six  white  onions  and  boil 
together  until  so  soft  they  can  be  rubbed  through  a  colander.  Now 
strain  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire  with  three  bay-leaves,  a 
tablespoonful,  each,  of  powdered  mace,  pepper,  cloves,  sugar,  salt,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed — this 
last  tied  up  in  a  small  cheese-cloth  bag.  Boil  for  nearly  six  hours, 
stirring  frequently.  Remove  the  bag  of  celery  seed,  and  pour  in  a 
pint  of  vinegar.  Bring  again  to  a  boil,  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
When  cold,  bottle  and  seal. — Contributed. 

Tomato  Aspic 

Combine  three  cupfuls  of  canned  tomato,  six  sticks  of  celery, 
cut  in  inch  pieces,  2  onions  cut  fine,  1  tsp.  sugar,  3  tsps.  of  salt,  XA 
tsp.  pepper,  and  1  clove.  Boil  for  one-half  hour  or  until  the  celery 
is  tender;  then  strain  the  mixture.  Soak  2  tblsps.  Knox  gelatin  in 
%  cupful  cold  water  for  five  minutes.  Then  pour  over  it  the  hot, 
strained,  tomato  mixture  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Pour  into  a 
cold,  wet  mold  and  chill  until  set.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  chopped 
celery  and  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Vera  King,  of  Utah,  in  Good  House- 
keeping. 

Currant  Relish 

Prepare  3  pounds  of  fresh  currants,  add  3  pounds  of  sugar  and 
1  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut  up,  and  boil  for  10  minutes.   Then  add 

3  lemons  and  2  oranges,  using  the  outside  rind  cut  into  fine  pieces  and 
the  juice,  rejecting  the  white,  tough  parts.  Allow  this  mixture  to 
come  to  a  boil  and  boil  10  minutes;  then  seal  in  sterilized  jars. — Mrs. 
Catherine  J.  Ball,  of  Delaware,  in  Good  Housekeeping. 

113 


Starting  a 
Bank  Account 

T  is  no  more  trouble  to  open  a  bank 
account  than  to  buy  a  pound  of  nails. 
Come  in  and  say  to  any  employee  or 
officer  of  the  bank:  "I  want  to  open 
an  account."  Tell  the  man  in  the 
cage  how  much  you  want  to  start  the  account 
with.  He  will  enter  the  amount  of  your  de- 
posit in  a  pass  book,  give  the  book  to  you  with 
a  supply  of  deposit  slips  and  bank  checks,  and 
will  ask  you  to  write  your  name  on  a  card  so 
that  your  signature  can  be  verified  in  the 
future. 

All  this  will  not  take  more  than  a  few  min- 
utes, and  you  will  have  facilities  for  saving 
money  and  taking  care  of  it  that  are  unknown 
to  the  person  who  is  not  a  bank  depositor. 

Every  woman  should  have  a  bank  account, 
and  pay  her  household  bills  by  check. 

You  can  open  such  an  account  with 

aBtllotn  $rotoe  Crust  Company 

WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


OPEN  EVERY  MONDAY  EVENING,  6.30  to  8.30 

PHONE,  WILLOW  GROVE  152 


114 


The  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package  contains  flavoring  and  coloring. 


CANDY 


Butter  Scotch 

Bring  2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  tspn.  almond 
extract  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  will  snap  when 
chilled  in  ice  water.  It  should  take  about  15  minutes.  When  done 
pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  mark  in  the  desired  shape  when  partly- 
cooled.  When  cold  complete  the  cutting  and  wrap  each  piece  in  wax 
paper. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Ritchie. 

French  Dainties 

Two  envelopes  Knox  acidulated  gelatine,  4  cups  granulated  sugar, 
1%  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  cold  water.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold 
water  five  minutes.  Add  the  boiling  water.  When  dissolved  add  the 
sugar  and  boil  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Divide  into  two  equal 
parts.  When  somewhat  cooled  add  to  one  part  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  the  lemon  flavor  found  in  separate  envelope,  dissolved  in  one  table- 
spoonful  water,  and  one  tablespoonful  lemon  extract.  To  the  other 
part  add  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  cloves.  Pour  into  shallow 
tins  that  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  over  night;  turn 
out  and  cut  into  squares.  Roll  in  fine  granulated  or  powdered  sugar 
and  let  stand  to  crystallize.  Vary  by  using  different  flavors  and 
colors,  and  adding  chopped  nuts,  dates  or  figs. 

Fudge 

Put  the  following  ingredients  together  and  simmer  for  ten  min- 
utes or  until  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  water,  without 
discoloring  the  water:  Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk, 
4  squares  chocolate  grated  or  cut  fine.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  tea- 
spoonful vanilla  and  beat  mixture  until  it  becomes  thick  and  creamy. 
Pour  into  buttered  pan  to  harden,  then  cut  in  squares. — Elsie  M. 
Seibert. 

Chocolate  Fudge 

One-half  cup  rich  milk,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  xk  cake  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  2  tspns.  vanilla. 
Heat  all  the  ingredients  together,  except  the  flavoring.  Stir  occasion- 
ally but  when  it  commences  to  boil  freely  remove  the  spoon  and  let 
it  cook  undisturbed  for  4  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  let  it  cool  naturally  and  just  before  pouring 
into  well  buttered  tins,  add  vanilla  extract,  stirring  it  in  thoroughly. 
When  cool  enough  mark  out  in  squares. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Ritchie. 

Chocolate  Fudge 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  2  tblspns.  butter,  2  oz. 
unsweetened  chocolate,  %  tspn.  vanilla.  Put  sugar  and  milk  over 
the  fire  until  boiling  point  is  reached;  add  butter  and  allow  to  boil 
until  syrup  will  form  in  soft  balls,  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Take 
from  fire,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  it  snaps,  pour  in 
buttered  dishes;  when  partly  cooled  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  George  W. 
Hellings. 


115 


Motor  Trucks  and 
Cooking 

Every  ingredient  called  for 
by  the  excellent  recipes  in  this 
Cook  Book  is  transported  long 
distances  by  modern  motor 
trucks. 

The  result  is  that  the  house- 
wife can  be  more  certain  of 
constantly  obtaining  fresh  sup- 
plies of  all  cooking  essentials. 

Aided  by  such  Cook  Books  as 
this  and  by  modern  transpor- 
tation facilities,  the  woman  of 
today  is  a  better  cook  and 
a  more  efficient  housekeeper 
than  was  possible  a  generation 
ago. 


116 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  GUARANTEED  to  please  or  money  back. 


A  Fine  Fudge 

One  lb.  each  of  brown  and  white  sugar,  1  cake  chocolate,  xk  lb. 
butter,  1  large  can  evaporated  milk,  pinch  of  cinnamon  and  salt,  va- 
nilla.  Nuts  may  be  added. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 

Walnut  Fudge 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  walnuts,  small  piece  butter.  Cook  5  to  10  minutes,  beat  until 
creamy  and  pour  on  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 

Marshmallows 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  1%  cups  water,  2  cups 
granulated  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  and  1  tspn.  vanilla.  Soak  gelatine 
in  %  of  the  water  five  minutes.  Boil  the  remaining  water  and  sugar 
until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Add  the  soaked  gelatine  and  when 
partially  cool,  add  the  salt  and  flavoring.  Beat  until  white  and  thick. 
Dust  granite  pans  thickly  with  powdered  sugar,  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  depth  of  6  inches.  Cool,  turn  on  board,  cut  in  squares, 
and  roll  in  sugar.  Nuts,  dates,  chocolate  or  cocoanut  may  be  added. 
This  recipe  makes  about  100. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 

Peanut  Brittle 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  any  kind  of  crushed  nuts,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  sugar  over  a  slow  fire,  let  melt  only, 
then  stir  in  the  butter,  then  the  nuts.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  put 
on  buttered  tins  to  cool. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Miller. 

Peppermint  Creams 

Put  over  fire  2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  boiling  water  and  when  boiling 
rapidly  put  in  %  of  tspn.  cream  of  tartar.  When  the  syrup  strings, 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  1  tspn.  of  peppermint  and  beat  until  it 
begins  to  grain.  Drop  quickly  on  waxed  paper  or  buttered  paper. — 
Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

Sea  Foam 

One  lb.  brown  sugar,  %  cup  water,  white  of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  Eng- 
lish walnuts.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together,  until  it  spins  a  thread. 
Stir  slowly  into  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg;  beat  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  add  nuts.  Continue  beating  until  it  is  thick  enough  to 
drop  from  spoon  on  oiled  paper. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Miller. 

Walnut  Candy 

Bring  to  a  boil  1  cup  molasses  and  1  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a 
walnut.  Add  1  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly; add  V2  tspn.  cream  of  tartar,  V2  tspn.  baking  soda.  Add  1 
qt.  chopped  nuts  and  pour  in  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hel- 
lings. 


117 


Hunt's  Jenkintown  Theatres 


AUDITORIUM 

York  Road  Below  Greenwood  Avenue 

HUNT'S  THEATRE 

(Odd  Fellows'  Hall) 

Leedom  and  Summit  Avenue 


Direction  Supervision 
HUNT'S  THEATRES,  INC.  F.  H.  ERICHSON 


Devoted  to  the  Presentation  of 
High  Class  Photo  Plays 


EXCLUSIVE  FIRST  SHOWING  OF 
PARAMOUNT  AND  FIRST  NATIONAL 
PRODUCTIONS 


EVERY  EVENING— 7  and  9  O'CLOCK 
MATINEE  EVERY  SATURDAY— 2.30 


118 


ADDITIONAL  CAKES 


Shellbark  Wafers 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  nuts,  6  tblspns.  flour,  a  little  salt. 
Mrs.  Edward  Carl. 

Vanilla  Wafers 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  egg  whites  (not  beaten),  IV2  cups 
flour,  %  tspn.  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  egg  whites 
and  mix  until  light.  Add  flour  and  flavoring.  Drop  by  V2  teaspoon- 
fuls  on  buttered  tin  and  pat  until  thin. — Harriet  Paxson. 

Vanilla  Wafers 

Mix  2  level  tblspns.  shortening  and  2  level  tblspns.  sugar,  and 
add  1  egg,  1  tspn.  vanilla,  V2  cup  flour.  Drop  by  V2  tspns.  on  pan 
and  bake  about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Harold  S.  Cassidy. 

Nannie  Z's  Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  lard  (melted),  IV2  cups 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  tblsp.  of  cinnamon,  2  tblsps.  of  ginger,  1 
cup  of  boiling  water,  and  1  tblsp.  of  soda  in  a  very  little  warm  water. 
Work  in  4  cups  of  flour  (measured  before  sifting),  and  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last. — Mrs.  J.  Dyre  Moyer. 

Velvet  Cake 

One  lb.  flour,  2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  %  lb.  butter,  1  cup 
water,  1  lb.  sugar,  4  eggs,  salt  and  flavoring. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Pugh. 

Nell's  Rochester  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  V2  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  nutmeg, 
1  tsp.  cinnamon,  Y2  tsp.  ground  cloves.  Use  white  icing. — Mrs.  J. 
Dyre  Moyer. 

Scripture  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  Judges  5-25 ;  3  cups  of  flour,  I  Kings  4-22 ;  3  cups 
of  sugar,  Jeremiah  6-20 ;  2  cups  of  raisins,  I  Samuel  30-12 ;  2  cups  of 
figs,  I  Samuel  30-12;  1  cup  of  water,  Genesis  43-11;  6  eggs,  Isaiah 
10-14;  1  tblsp.  of  honey,  Exodus  16-21;  1  pinch  of  salt,  Leviticus  2-13; 
spices  to  taste,  1  Kings  10-10;  2  tblsps.  Rumford  baking  powder, 
Corinthians  5-6.— Mrs.  E.  M.  D. 

Angel  Cake 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  IV2  cups  granulated  sugar  sifted  once,  1 
cup  flour  sifted  with  1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar  four  times,  1  tsp.  vanilla. 
Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  40  minutes.  When  done  invert  pan  on  two 
cups  and  let  stand  until  cake  is  cold. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Roberts. 

Cakes 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  V2  cup  of  cream,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg, 
1  tspful.  of  baking  soda  (not  heaped),  a  little  nutmeg  and  enough 
flour  to  roll.  Cut  like  wafers  or  any  shape  desired. — Mrs.  Raymond 
Slight. 


119 


J.  DYRE  MOYER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  103 

Sunshine  Cake 

White  of  six  eggs,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar, 

1  cup  flour,  scant  %  tsp.  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  yolks  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  pinch  of  salt  to  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  to  a  foam.  Add 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  stiff.  Add  sugar  to  whites  of  eggs  and 
beat,  add  yolks  and  beat,  then  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Fold  flour  in  lightly 
and  bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Pearson. 

Ginger  Bread 

Mix  %  or  %  cup  sugar  with  V2  cup  lard,  add  1  egg  and  beat  light. 
Mix  %  cup  boiling  water  and  1  tsp.  baking  soda,  and  add  with  % 
or  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses.  Sift  2  cups  flour,  scant  %  tsp. 
ginger,  x/z  tsp.  cinnamon,  1  tsp.  cocoa  together,  and  pour  in  batter. 
Bake  about  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Roberts. 

Spiced  Ginger  Bread 

One  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter,  5  eggs,  %  tsp.  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water,  1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar,  V2  cup  sweet  milk,  1  large 
tblsp.  ginger,  1  tsp.  cloves,  1  tsp.  nutmeg,  1  tsp.  cinnamon.  Cream 
the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  yolks,  the  milk  and  spices  and  soda; 
when  these  are  well  mixed,  add  the  flour  and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.   Bake  in  2  square  or  round  loaves. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Devil's  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar  and  V2  cup  cocoa  mixed,  %  cup  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2V2  cups  flour,  1  small  tspn.  baking 
soda.    Last  of  all  add  V2  cup  boiling  water  and  beat  well.    Bake  in 

2  layers;  when  cool  put  white  icing  between  and  on  top. — Mrs.  B. 
Margerum. 

Pineapple  Cake  with  Whipped  Cream 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  2  tblspns.  butter,  pinch  salt, 
2  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  when  cool,  put  cooked  grated 
pineapple  on  top.  Whip  %  pt.  whipping  cream  with  a  little  powdered 
sugar  and  put  on  top  of  pineapple. — Mrs.  B.  Margerum. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Mix  2  cups  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  cocoa,  2  tblspns.  lard,  %  cup  hot 
water.  Add  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  tspn.  soda,  1  tspn.  vanilla. 
Mix  flour  and  baking  soda  the  same  as  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2 
layers. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 

Feather  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  4 
cups  flour,  3  tspns.  Rumford  baking  powder,  flavoring  to  taste.  Bake 
in  loaf. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 


120 


Fruit  Cake 

One  pkg.  raisins,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water  (with 
1  tspn.  soda),  1  tspn.  cinnamon,  1  tspn.  cloves,  2  tblspns.  shortening. 
Boil  5  minutes,  then  cool  and  mix  with  4  cups  flour.  One-half  cup 
of  chopped  nuts  will  improve. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 

One,  Two,  Three,  Four  Cocoanut  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 
1  tspn.  cream  of  tartar  (sifted  in  flour),  %  tspn.  baking  soda,  % 
small  cocoanut  stirred  in  at  the  last. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Sponge  Cake 

Five  eggs,  1  glass  sugar,  1  glass  sifted  flour,  %  tspn.  Rumford 
baking  powder,  juice  of  %  lemon.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  15  minutes, 
add  flour,  flavoring,  baking  powder.  Without  the  baking  powder,  this 
cake  can  be  used  for  jelly  roll,  also. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Donnelly. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Four  eggs,  2%  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  cup 
cream,  pinch  salt,  2%  scant  cups  flour,  2%  tspns.  Rumford  baking 
powder,  IV2  squares  chocolate  melted  with  boiling  water.  Mix  eggs, 
sugar,  and  shortening  together,  beat  to  a  lemon  colored  cream,  then 
add  melted  chocolate.  Mix  well,  add  baking  powder,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.   Ice  with 

Caramel  Icing  Fudge — Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  piece  of 
butter;  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  1%  squares  chocolate  (not  cocoa). 
When  it.  spins  a  thread,  add  1  tspn.  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Layer  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  butter  and  IV2  cups  sugar;  add  3  eggs,  beaten,  and 
1  cup  flour,  then  add  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  flour  alternately.  Sift 
2V2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder  in  x&  cup  flour  and  add  to  batter, 
with  1  tsp.  flavoring. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Roberts. 

Orange  Cake 

One-quarter  cup  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream;  V2  cup  sugar,  grad- 
ually beaten  into  butter;  2  eggs  beaten,  add  another  %  cup  sugar. 
Beat  eggs  into  the  butter  mixture.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
%  an  orange,  then  %  cup  of  milk  and  1%  cups  of  sifted  flour,  sifted 
again  with  3  level  tsps.  of  Rumford  baking  powder.  (2  layers.)  — 
Mrs.  L.  F.  Pearson. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  tblsps.  melted  lard,  2  eggs,  %  tsp. 
salt,  1  cup  milk,  2  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  2  tsps.  vanilla,  about 
three  cups  flour.  Drop  from  spoon  into  very  hot  lard  and  turn  often 
to  thoroughly  cook.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon. 
This  is  a  rather  stiff  dough.— Mrs.  E.  S.  Roberts. 

Cheese  Fingers 

Roll  pastry  V&  inch  thick;  cut  into  strips  4  inches  long  and  1  inch 
wide.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  spread  with  soft  cheese  and  put  together  in 
pairs.— Mrs.  John  R.  Howarth. 


121 


UNCLASSIFIED  RECIPES 


Canned  String  Beans 

Two  qts.  beans,  1  qt.  water,  V±  cup  vinegar,  1  tspn.  salt.  Boil  20 
minutes  and  seal  while  hot. — Mrs.  John  F.  W. 

To  Cook  Rice 

In  cooking  rice  do  not  put  it  into  double  boiler  and  cook  slowly 
into  a  pasty  mass,  but  after  cleansing  it  throw  it  into  rapidly  boiling 
water,  salted,  and  keep  it  boiling  furiously  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
in  a  colander  and  place  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Johnson. 

Cocoa  Syrup 

Dissolve  2  cups  of  sugar  in  2  cups  of  water  and  boil  5  minutes. 
Mix  1  cup  of  cocoa  with  hot  water  to  make  a  paste  and  add  to  the 
boiling  water  and  sugar.  Boil  slowly  10  minutes  and  add  %  teaspoon 
salt.  Cool,  bottle  and  keep  in  the  refrigerator  or  cool  place.  One 
teaspoon  of  this  syrup  to  a  cup  of  hot  milk  or  boiling  water  will 
make  a  rich  cup  of  cocoa  instantly  or  added  to  iced  milk  or  water 
will  make  a  delicious  summer  drink. — Mrs.  George  W.  Hellings. 

"Luncheon  Special"  Sandwich 

One  slice  of  bread,  buttered,  2  slices  of  tomato,  2  slices  of  bacon. 
Cover  this  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  bread  is 
toasted,  tomato  cooked  and  cheese  melted.  Serve  hot. — Mabel  Hal- 
deman. 

Marguerites 

Boil  together  1  cup  sugar,  and  %  cup  water.  Remove  from  fire 
when  thick  enough  to  form  a  ball  in  cold  water.  Stir  into  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  and,  still  stirring,  add  about  1  cupful  of  rolled  or 
chopped  peanuts,  and  beat  until  creamy  enough  to  spread  on  small 
sweet  crackers.  If  filling  gets  hard  too  quickly,  set  dish  in  hot  water. 
— Bertha  Haldeman. 

Tea  Punch 

Pour  1  qt.  boiling  water  over  4  teaspoonfuls  good  tea.  Cover, 
and  leave  5  minutes,  then  strain  and  cool.  Half  fill  a  bowl  with 
cracked  ice,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  juice  of  4  lemons.  Pour  tea  over 
this,  add  V2  pt.  water  and  a  little  mint. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Stevenson. 

Orange  Frost 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  %  tsp.  lemon  juice,  1  tblsp.  orange 
juice,  let  stand  15  minutes,  strain;  beat  1  egg  yolk,  add  fruit  juice  and 
confectioners'  sugar,  then  sugar  to  spread. — 'Mrs.  L.  F.  Pearson. 

Pudding 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  %  tsp.  salt,  1  tblsp.  butter,  \xk  cups  flour, 
1  tsp.  Rumford  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  in  order  given, 
turn  into  shallow  pan,  put  fruit  over  top,  press  in  and  sprinkle  with 
tblsp.  of  sugar.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot 
with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  Raymond  Slight. 


122 


J.  DYRE  MOVER,  York  Road,  Willow  Grove 
All  kinds  of  Lumber,  Building  Material,  Coal  and  Feed — Bell  Phone,  1 03 

Suabian  Dumplings 

Sieve  about  1  qt.  flour;  add  2  eggs  (beaten),  1  pt.  milk  and  a 
little  salt,  and  beat  well.  Have  water  boiling,  salted  to  taste.  Take 
sharp  knife,  dip  in  hot  water,  and  cut  dough  nicely  in  dumpling  size. 
Take  half  the  dumplings,  boil  about  15  minutes  and  dip  out.  Then 
boil  other  half  about  15  minutes.  After  all  are  done,  mix  lard  and: 
butter  and  bread  crumbs,  and  sprinkle  over  the  platter. — Mrs.  A. 
Arenz. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Cut  pumpkin  in  small  pieces  without  peeling  and  boil  till  very- 
well  done,  press  through  a  sieve  and  continue  cooking  slowly  till  quite 
dry.  For  one  pie  take  1  cup  pumpkin,  pour  over  it  IV2  cups  scalding 
milk,  add  2  tblsps.  butter,  2  tblsps.  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  honey,  2  eggs, 
V2  tsp.  ginger,  %  tsp.  cinnamon,  salt.  Bake  in  rich  crust  slowly  about 
1  hour. — A  Friend. 

Chili  Con  Came 

Cut  1  pound  of  round  steak  into  inch  cubes.  Chop  2  medium- 
sized  onions  fine.  Brown  the  steak  and  saute  the  onions,  until  soft 
and  yellow,  in  bacon  fat.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  water 
and  add  2V2  cupfuls  of  canned  kidney  beans,  2  cupfuls  of  canned  to- 
matoes, 1  tsp.  of  salt,  V2  tsp.  of  paprika,  and  1  tblsp.  of  chili  powder, 
the  latter  dissolved  in  1  cupful  of  hot  water.  Simmer  gently  for  3 
hours,  replenishing  the  liquid  if  necessary. — Mrs.  Lucille  S.  Shep- 
pard,  of  Texas,  in  Good  Housekeeping. 

Toasted  Bread 

Dry  bread,  then  toast  over  hot  coals.  Butter  and  place  in  oven 
a  few  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brumfield. 

Boston  Cream  Pie 

One-quarter  cup  of  fat,  1  egg  yolk,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  3  tsps.  Rumford  baking  powder,  1  egg  white, 
salt. 

Chocolate  Filling  for  Pie — One-half  cup  flour,  V2  cup  cold  milk, 
1  cup  scalded  milk,  2  ounces  chocolate,  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  egg  and  1 
yolk,  *4  cup  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger. 

Cheese-Pepper  Sandwich  Filling 

Put  V2  lb.  cheese,  1  red  and  1  green  pepper  through  grinder.  Add 
V2  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  2  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  salt  to  taste.  Good  for 
bread  or  crackers. — Leona  V.  Howard. 

Frozen  Custard 

Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  very  light,  add  1V2  cups  sugar,  and  1  qt.  milk 
which  has  been  brought  to  a  boil.  Put  in  upper  part  of  double  boiler 
and  add  1  tblsp.  Knox  Gelatine  (which  has  been  softened  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  and  then  dissolved  over  steam).  Let  boil  till  slightly 
thickened.  Cool  and  just  before  freezing  add  1  pt.  cream  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.— Eva  M.  Duffield. 


123 


SILL'S  CENTRAL  MARKET,  York  and  Davisville  Rds.,  Willow  Grove 
We  give  full  measure,  even  to  blind  men 


Fruit  Sherbet 

One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine  (scant  measure), 
l1^  cups  sugar,  1  orange,  3  cups  rich  milk,  1  lemon.  Grate  the  out- 
side of  both  orange  and  lemon.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  add  to 
this  the  sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  part  of  a  cup  of  milk  for  five 
minutes,  and  dissolve  by  standing  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  into  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  When  it  begins  to  freeze  add  the  fruit  juice  and 
sugar,  and  fruit  of  any  kind  if  desired.  This  makes  a  large  allow- 
ance for  five  persons. 

Orange  Sherbet 

Six  oranges,  juice  only;  2  lemons,  juice  only;  1  qt.  of  water,  1 
pt.  of  sugar,  white  of  1  egg.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  10 
minutes.  When  cool  add  the  juice  and  strain  all  into  the  freezer;  add 
the  whites  of  the  egg,  beaten  slightly,  and  freeze  as  ice  cream.  If  a 
pink  sherbet  is  desired  add  enough  juice  of  canned  cherries  to  color. 
—Mrs.  A.  B.  Allen. 

"Valley  View"  Potato  Salad 

Boil  one  doz.  medium-sized  potatoes,  pare,  and  slice,  cut  1  stalk 
of  celery,  2  onions,  and  1  sweet  green  pepper  into  small  pieces  and  mix 
with  potatoes  while  latter  are  warm.  Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  vinegar, 
three  tblsps.  of  pure  olive  oil.  Mix  well  and  set  aside  to  cool. — 
Mrs.  R.  G.  W. 

Kensington  Snapper  Soup 

Place  meat  and  shell  of  a  six  pound  snapper  into  a  boiler,  and 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  salt,  pepper,  2  onions,  1  stalk  of  celery  (cut 
into  small  pieces),  boil  all  until  meat  is  tender.  Then  pick  meat  from 
shell  and  bones,  placing  meat  back  again  in  stock.  Add  six  medium- 
sized  potatoes  diced.  Add  sweet  marjoram,  allspice  and  cayenne 
pepper.  The  secret  of  good  snapper  soup  is  to  have  it  well  spiced. 
Mix  V2  cup  browned  flour  with  sufficient  cold  water  and  add  to  boiling 
soup.  Also  add  pound  butter  shortly  before  serving.  If  desired, 
pie-dough  dumplings  can  be  added. — R.  J.  W. 

Club  House  Stew 

Boil  1  chicken  quartered,  and  2  lbs.  of  lean  stewing  beef  cut  into 
small  pieces,  adding  6  potatoes  diced,  2  onions,  2  tomatoes,  2  stalks  of 
celery  (cut  into  small  pieces),  1  pint  of  lima  beans,  salt  and  plenty 
of  pepper.   For  camping  parties  there  is  nothing  better. — R.  J.  W. 

Fresh  Vegetable  Soup 

Two  lbs.  soup  beef  and  bone,  1  carrot,  1  stalk  celery,  2  onions,  1  cup 
cabbage  cut  fine,  1  cup  lima  beans,  1  cup  peas,  1  cup  string  beans,  2 
cups  tomatoes,  1  cup  diced  potatoes,  1  cup  corn,  1  okra  sliced. — Mrs. 
R.  J.  W. 

Poached  Egg  a  la  Portuguese 

Fry  slices  of  tomatoes  in  olive  oil,  place  on  toasted  bread  and  top 
with  a  poached  egg. — R.  G.  W. 


124 


A  Few  Suggestive  Salad  Combinations 

1.  To  serve  with  French  Dressing: 

Cucumber  and  tomatoes. 
Asparagus  tips  in  pimento  rings,  or  sprinkled  with  chopped 
pimentos. 

A  macedioine — any  mixture  of  left-over  vegetables. 
Tomatoes  and  celery. 

2.  To  serve  with  Cream  Dressing: 

Potato.  Apple.  Celery  and  nut. 

3.  To  serve  with  Boiled  Dressing: 

Waldorf  salad — apples,  celery  and  nuts. 
Salmon. 

Combination  salad — equal  quantities  of  cucumbers,  tomatoes, 
celery  and  one  teaspoon  chopped  onion. 

4.  To  be  served  with  Mayonnaise: 

Grapes,  peaches,  pears,  pineapple  in  equal  parts. 
Pineapple  circles. 

Eussian — equal  quantities  of  carrot  cubes,  potato  cubes,  peas 

and  beans,  first  marinated  with  French  dressing. 
Tomato.  Fish  salads.  Meat  salads. 

Pepper  and  grapefruit. 


SALADS 


Dressing 

Acid 

Oil 

Seasonings 

Thickening 

Method 

French 
Dressing 

2  tb.  vine- 
gar 

4  tb.  on 

Vz  t.  salt, 
%  t.  pepper 

1.  Mix  ingredients 

2.  Beat  or  shake  until 

white 

3.  ChiU 

Cream 
Dressing 

3  tb.  vine- 
gar 

y2  c.  thick 
cream 

t.  salt, 
few  grains 
pepper 

1.  Beat  cream  until  stiff 

2.  Add    salt,    pepper  and 

vinegar  very  slowly 

3.  Continue  beating— being 

careful  not  to  beat  too 
long  as  this  curdles  the 
cream 

Mayonnaise 

2  tb.  lemon 
juice 

2  tb.  vine- 
gar 

\Vz  c.  oil 

1  t.  mustard, 

1  t.  salt, 

1  t.  powdered 

sugar, 

few  grains 

cayenne 

2  egg  yolks 

1.  Have     all  ingredients 

chilled,  as  well  as  all 
utensils 

2.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add 

egg  yolks,  stir 

3.  Add  %  t  vinegar— beat 

4.  Add  oil  drop  by  drop, 

beat  constantly 

5.  As     mixture  thickens, 

thin  with  vinegar  and 
lemon  juice 

6.  Add  oil  and  acid  alter- 

nately until  all  of  oil 
is  used 

7.  Beat   with   egg  beater 

constantly 

Boiled 
Dressing,  I, 
Inexpensive 

4  tb.  vine- 
gar 

1  tb.  fat 
(butter  or 
its  substi- 
tute, chick- 
en fat) ,  1  c. 
milk 

1  t.  mustard, 
1  t.  salt, 

t.  sugar, 
few  grains 
cayenne 

1  egg  yolk, 
1  tb.  flour 

1.  Mix  dry  ingredients 

2.  Add   butter,   egg  yolks 

and  milk 

3.  Cook   until  it  thickens 

like     a     custard  in 
double  boiler 

4.  Add  vinegar  slowly,  and 

boil  1  minute  longer 

Boiled 
Dressing,  II 

4  tb.  vine- 
gar 

%  c.  milk, 

iy2  tb. 
butter 

V2  tb.  salt, 
1  t.  mustard, 
V-k  tb.  sugar, 
few  grains 
cayenne 

3  egg  yolks 

Salad  Garnishes 

Heart  lettuce  leaves.  Sliced  stuffed  olives. 

Pimento  rings.  Sliced  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Beets  or  pickles  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 


Mother's  Bank  Account 


Every  mother  is  invited  to  open  a  bank  ac- 
count here,  regardless  of  its  size. 

A  checking  account  will  make  the  family 
budget  go  further  by  causing  her  to  think 
twice  before  spending;  and  will  protect  her 
against  loss,  errors  in  paying  bills,  and  the 
dangers  which  the  carrying  of  money  encour- 
ages. 

We  make  every  mother  feel  at  home  in  this 
bank. 

THE 

GLENSIDE  NATIONAL  BANK 

Glenside,  Pa. 


HOMES  and  SITES 

Build  Your  Home  in  the  Most  Attractive 
Part  of  Willow  Grove 

GRAND   VIEW  HEIGHTS 

(ON  THE  HILL) 

We  have  some  beautiful  Bungalows,  with  large  lots, 
together  with  all  improvements.  Also  large  lots  and 
building  sites,  or  will  build  you  a  home,  to  suit. 
Terms.    Will  finance. 

JOHN  SCHULL 

WILLOW  GROVE 

BELL    PHONE.    WILLOW    GROVE  66 


126 


CONTENTS 

Eggs    7 

Fish    8 

Sea  Foods   9 

Soups    12 

Poultry    17 

Meats    22 

Vegetables    28 

Salads    38 

Dressings    42 

Pies    47 

Puddings    57 

Other  Sweets    65 

Cakes  and  Icings   71,  123 

Cookies,  Gems,  etc   93 

Bread,  Rolls,  Biscuits,  Muffins  100 

Crullers,  Doughnuts,  Griddle  Cakes   103 

Butters,  Jams,  Jellies  105 

Pickles  and  Relishes   107 

Candy   115 

Additional  Cakes   119 

Unclassified  Recipes   122 

A  Few  Suggestive  Salad  Combinations  125 

127 


In  Appreciation 

The  Women's  Committee  of  the  Willow  Grove  Memorial 
Hall  Building  Fund  herewith  tenders  a  very  hearty  "Thank 
You"  to  all  those  who  have  helped  in  any  way  to  make  this 
little  volume  such  a  great  success,  both  as  a  culinary  text-book 
and  as  a  financial  undertaking. 

We  include  in  this  expression  of  gratitude  even  our  long  list 
of  advertisers,  although  we  are  giving  them  full  value  for  every 
dollar  received.  Our  first  edition  of  two  thousand  books  will  be 
greeted  with  many  advance  orders  and  prospects  are  very  rosy 
for  a  largely  increased  output,  which  will  go  into  homes  scattered 
over  the  entire  Philadelphia  suburban  section. 

We  make  a  Very  Special  Bow  to  the  Good  Housewives  of 
Willow  Grove  for  the  toothsome  recipes  submitted — to  Mrs. 
Edgar  M.  Davenport,  our  former  Committee  Secretary,  for  much 
preliminary  typing — to  Mr.  J.  Dyre  Moyer  for  several  months' 
free  use  of  an  automobile,  with  operating  supplies — to  Mrs.  P. 
J.  Donnelly  for  cordial  volunteer  service  rendered — and  to  the 
following  other  friends  who  have  helped  in  large  measure  to 
defray  our  printing  expenses: 


Bertha  M.  Tomlinson 
Mrs.  Wm.  Henson 
Mrs.  E.  F.  Gunn 
Mrs.  Mary  Fillman 
Mrs.  Anna  Kaff 
Mrs.  A.  W.  Geiger 
Mrs.  Chas.  Shaffer 
Mrs.  N.  J.  Kearns 
Mrs.  Katherine  Euddach 
Mrs.  Mary  F.  Lovell 
Mrs.  Canby  Tyson 
Florence  Walters 
Rev.  H.  R.  Johnson 
Theodore  F.  Seifert 
Harrison  McGuigan 
John  E.  Sjostrom 
E.  L.  Brous 
Stephen  Mason 
Harold  Berger 

D.  L.  Anderson 
G.  A.  Shore 
W.  R.  Hedriek 
J.  F.  Tiffenbach 
Stanley  Shiles 
Charles  A.  Shelmire 

E.  G.  Brody 

T.  W.  Schumacher 
Benj.  Felbin 
G.  E.  Smith 

F.  S.  Lobley 
Howard  Leadbeater 
Walter  Smith 


Carrell  Harper 
W.  R.  Pugh 
Wm.  H.  Castor 
Wm.  White,  Jr. 
Chas.  L.  Sickel 
Chas.  W.  Kirk 
Francis  Lang 
Samuel  H.  High,  Esq. 
Frank  S.  Gentry,  Esq. 
Harry  C.  E.  Helweg 
Chas.  Voorhees 
Raymond  Crawford 
George  Felter 
Sam.  Bradley  Barr 
John  Stanton 
W.  S.  Holt 
J.  E.  Coggin 
Edward  Lupton 
George  Murray 
Samuel  Edelstein 
Joseph  Conti 
W.  L.  Raiser 
J.  H.  Dunbar 
James  McCaughey 
R.  J.  Wells 
Nahan  Franko 
Samuel  Goodman 
John  S.  Gibson 
John  E.  Twining 
Russell  Baum 
George  Howard 
J.  Raymond  Green 


J.  Franklin  Rebuck 
Patrick  Conway 
Nework  Hunton 
Harvey  Crouthamel 
Theodore  Glentworth,  3rd 
Wm.  W.  Armstrong 
George  D.  Heist 
Chas.  F.  Barker 
W.  Veryl  Walton 
Herman  Scott 
Robert  Wright 
Dr.  George  Ulrich 
Elite  Beauty  Parlor 
A.  S.  Hinds  Co. 
Magic  Yeast  Co. 
Lit  Brothers 
The  Leathersmith  Shops 
The  Enterprise  Mfg.  Co. 

of  Penna. 
Brown-Bates  Lumber  Co. 
Peirce  Business  College 
Arthur  E.  Lane  Lumber 

Co. 

Model  Printing  Co. 

Allentown  Cement  Co. 

A.  S.  Hellyer  Sons'  Co. 

Willow  Grove  Men's  Or- 
ganization. 

Willow  Grove  Sewing 
Circle. 

Friends  of  Mrs.  P.  J. 
Donnelly. 


To  all  these  and  to  those  others  who  stipulated  "no  mention", 
we  again  say,  from  the  heart — "Thank  You,  and  Good  Luck!" 


Women's  Committee 
Willow  Grove  Memorial  Hall  Building  Fund. 


128 


REAL  ESTATE 


NOTARY 
PUBLIC 


INSURANCE 


Suburban  Homes 
Building  Sites 
Farms 


Fire 

Storm 

Automobile 


W.  L.  KENTNER 


Real  Estate 


Insurance 


OFFICE:  ON  THE  OLD  YORK  ROAD 
WILLOW  GROVE,  PA. 


OFFICE: 


RESIDENCE: 

Bell  Phone, 

Willow  Grove  127  M 


Bell  Phone, 
Willow  Grove  40 


Established  1909 


Enjoy  These  Recipes  in  Your  Own  Home 
and  Enjoy  Your  Home  by  Having 


We  believe  in  the  contracts  we  are  selling;  in  their 
and  our  ability  to  get  results 

We  believe  that  honest  policies  can  be  sold  to 
honest  men  by  honest  methods.  Also  in  keeping  our 
agreements. 

We  believe  in  working,  not  waiting;  in  laughing, 
not  crying;  in  boosting,  not  knocking;  and  in  the 
pleasure  of  doing  business. 

We  believe  in  courtesy,  in  kindness,  in  generosity, 
in  good  cheer,  in  friendship,  and  in  honest  competi- 
tion. 

We  believe  in  increasing  our  trade,  and  that  the 
way  to  do  it  is  to  reach  for  it.  We  are  reaching  for 
yours. 

We  would  appreciate  a  share  of  your  patronage. 
May  we  have  it? 


it  Fully  Insured 


"OUR  BUSINESS  CREED" 


