C 
> 


s 
a 
a 


Is 
—, 
a 


4 


MERRY CHI 











THE LIBRARY OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NORTH CAROLINA 


THE COLLECTION OF 
NORTH CAROLINIANA 


Cp641.5 
DE7m 








Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 with funding from 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


https://archive.org/details/merrychristmasOOunse 


MAIN DISHES 


TURKEY HASH SUPREME 


1 cup cut-up, cooked turkey 1 cup cooked, chopped potatoes 

1/4 cup chopped onion 1 tablespoon pickle relish 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine - 1/2 cup cooked peas 

1 cup thin white sauce or 1 can 1/4 cup grated, sharp cheese 
cream mushroom soup Paprika 


Cook onions in butter until transparent but not brown. Add 
turkey, soup, peas, potatoes and pickle relish. Heat slowly. Turn into 
l-quart casserole, cover with cheese, add paprika. 


Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 30 minutes. Makes 3 servings. 


VARIATION: This hash is very good baked in 3 green pepper cups. 
Cut the stem end off large green sweet pepper, clean out white part 
and seeds. Rinse in cold water. Cover with water and boil 5 minutes. 
Drain. Fill with mixture and bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 


TURKEY TETRAZZINI 


1 lb. spaghetti 2 cups milk 

1 1/2 cups diced celery 1/2 lb. sharp cheese 

1 cup diced green pepper 2 teaspoons salt 

1/4 cup onion 1/4 teaspoon pepper 

1/2 lb. mushrooms, canned or fresh 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce 
3/4 cup butter or margarine 1 1/2 cups diced, cooked turkey 
1/4 cup flour 3/4 cup Parmesan cheese 


Cook spaghetti according to directions on package. Prepare Sauce: 
Cook celery, green pepper, onion and mushrooms in the butter until 
onion is just transparent. Add flour and blend well. Add milk all at 
once, cook, stirring constantly until uniformly thickened. Blend in 
cheese, salt, pepper, Worcestershire, turkey. Stir until cheese is melted. 
Heat to serving temperature, avoid overheating sauce. Serve over the 
hot spaghetti. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese on top. If desired, place in 
13” x 9” x 2” pan and put in 350° oven for 15-20 min. Makes five cups 
sauce. Twenty-one to twenty-four servings. 


CHEESEBERRY TURKEY LOAF... make them ahead and store in 


refrigerator. 
20 slices bread (1 loaf) Chicken Salad (2 cups, well season- 
Softened butter ed) 


2 cups cranberry sauce 
Cream cheese (about 1 Ib.) 


Trim bread crusts. Butter the first slice of bread. Spread with a 
generous layer of cranberry sauce. (Butter prevents cranberry sauce 
from soaking into bread.) Top with second slice of bread buttered on 
both sides. Cover with a layer of Chicken salad. Top with third slice 


[237 489 Page One 


of bread, buttered on both sides. Spread with cranberry sauce. Cover 
with fourth slice of bread, buttered side down. With a sharp knife, cut 
each stack in half. Cover sides and top with cream cheese moistened 
with milk to spreading consistency. (Tint the cheese green, if you 
like.) Garnish with cranberry cutouts. Makes 10 individual cranberry 
chicken.sandwich loaves. : | 


IMPORTANT—ROAST TURKEY AT LOW TEMPERATURE (350°) 


CHICKEN MOUSSE 


1 large chicken (4 to 5 Ibs.) 3 stalks celery 
2 carrots 1 pod red pepper 
Salt & pepper 


Simmer chicken and vegetables in 3 cups of water in covered 
container until tender. Let stand over night. Chop up meat of chicken. 
Soften 2 envelopes of unflavored gelatin in 1 cup of cold broth from 
which grease has been removed, then dissolve in 2 cups of boiling 
broth. Chill until begins to jell. Then add: Chopped chicken, 2 cups 
chopped celery, 1 1/2 cups almonds, 1 cup India Relish and 1 cup 
mayonnaise. 


Pour into mold and chill until firm. Garnish with hard-cooked 
eggs. 


DRESSINGS 


A good dressing has a pleasing texture—moist or crumbly. It is 
well-seasoned with no one flavoring predominating. Lightness is im- 
portant. The dressing should be spooned into the cavity—not packed. 
Extra dressing can be baked in a separate pan, basting it with the 
pan drippings or broth from the giblets. 


FAVORITE BREAD DRESSING WITH VARIATIONS | 


1 cup fat 1 tablespoon salt 

1 cup minced onion 1/2 teaspoon pepper 

1 qt. diced celery 2 teaspoons poultry seasoning 

4 qts. small bread cubes, firmly “1 1/2 to 2 cups broth, milk or water 


packed (2 to 4 day-old bread, 
1 1/2 Ib. loaf) 


Cook onion and celery in fat over low heat until onion is soft but 
not brown, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile blend seasonings with 
ee aes gue onion, celery and fat. Blend: Pour the broth 
radually over surface, stirring lightly. Add ing e- 
sired. Stuffing for 14-18 lb. (eee : TT Ae ae, Pa 
Variations 
APPLE DRESSING 


Add 2 cups chopped apples to the Prune or Sausage Dressing. 


Page Two 


BISCUIT DRESSING 
Use 4 quarts of crumbled day-old biscuits instead of bread. 


CHESTNUT DRESSING 


Add 2 cups boiled chestnuts to dressing before adding liquid. To 
prepare chestnuts: place 1 lb. raw chestnuts (in shells) in cold water 
to cover. Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer for 15 min. Drain. Peel 
and skin. Chop coarsely. 


CORNBREAD DRESSING 
Reduce bread to 2 gts. Add 2 qts. crumbled cornbread or corn 
muffins. . 
EGG DRESSING 
Add 3 or 4 well-beaten eggs to bread mixture. 


GIBLET DRESSING 
Brown chopped, cooked turkey giblets in fat before adding onion 
and celery. 


OYSTER DRESSING 

Cook one to two pints oysters in oyster liquid until edges curl. 
Add to bread with seasonings. Include oyster liquor as part or all of 
the liquid in dressing. Chop oysters if they are large. 


PRUNE DRESSING 

Remove pits from 1/2 to 1 lb. dried prunes which have been cooked 
or soaked. Cut prunes into 3 or 4 pieces. Add to bread with seasonings. 
Include prune juice as part or all of the liquid. 


PARSLEY DRESSING ; 
Add 1/2 cup finely chopped parsley to bread with seasoning. 


SAUSAGE DRESSING | 

Omit fat. Reduce poultry seasoning to 1 teaspoon. Cook 1 lb. 
sausage meat slowly until browned—breaking it into small pieces with 
a fork as it cooks. Add onion and celery ‘and continue cooking until 
onion is transparent. Proceed as above. Use the sausage fat in the 
dressing. ME thie ewer. 23 : 


OLD NEW ENGLAND TURKEY DRESSING 


9 cups soft bread crumbs 1/2 teaspoon pepper 
3 cups ham te oe an 1/2 teaspoon marjoram 
2. tablespoons grated lemon rind. . 1 teaspoon nutmeg 


3 teaspoons salt 1/2.cup butter or margarine 
2 tablespoons dry mustard 72 6 egg yolks ate 


; as ; h 

Crumble: bread into small bits in large bowl, put ham throug 
medium blade of food grinder and add crumbs. Add all eee 
bread-ham mixture and toss lightly with your hands. Now melt pu 
or margarine and sprinkle over seasoned crumbs. Beat egg yo . 
slightly and add. to dressing. Mix until all. crumbs are well coate L 
Fills 18-22 lb. bird. = Tee 


Page Three 


VEGETABLES 


ASPARAGUS DELIGHT 


2 small cans asparagus 4 tablespoons cream or 4 tablespoons 
1 box cheese wafers liquid of asparagus 
1 can cream of mushroom soup Almonds 


Alternate layers of asparagus, cheese wafers and mushroom soup — 
thinned with the cream. Sprinkle chopped almonds over the top and 
place in 350° oven for 20-25 min., or until nuts are browned. 


For an extra Christmas look, decorate with a poinsetta made from 
pimento. 


GOLDEN VEGETABLE BAKE ... cream style corn and shredded 
carrots combine to make a delicious casserole. 


2 tablespoons butter 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons flour 3/4 teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons chopped onion 2 beaten eggs 

1 cup scalded milk 1 1/2 cups shredded carrots 
1 teaspoon salt 1 can cream style corn 


1/3 cup chopped green pepper 


Melt butter, add flour, blend. Gradually add milk; cook over low 
heat until thick, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. Stir a little hot 
sauce into eggs. Add egg mixture to sauce. Stir in vegetables. Pour into 


are 1 1/2 quart casserole. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 55 to 
min. 


RAISIN-FILLED APPLES 


Wash and core 6 large baking apples. Place in baking dish. Fill - 
center of each apple with 1 to 2 tablespoons brown or granulated sugar, 
seedless raisins, and 1/2 teaspoon butter. Sprinkle center with cinna- 


mon. Pour 1 cup water around apples. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 
for 1 hour. 


PINEAPPLE SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 


2 1/2 cups whole, 1/4 cup orange juice 
cooked, sweet potatoes 1 9 oz. can crushed pineapple, drain- 
3 tablespoons butter or margarine ed 


1/2 teaspoon salt . 4 marshmallows, cut in half 


Mash potatoes, add butter, salt and orange juice, beat until light 
and fluffy. Add crushed pineapple, pour into greased 1 quart casserole, 
dot with butter. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for about 45 minutes. 
During last 10 or 15 minutes top with marshmallows, walnut halves 


and pineapple chunks, if desired. Bake until marshmallows melt. 6 
servings. 


Page Four 


SALADS, SANDWICHES, BREADS 


FROZEN CRANBERRY SALAD 


1 16-oz. can jellied cranberry sauce 1/4 cup mayonnaise 
3 tablespoons lemon juice, fresh, 1/4 cup confectioners’ sugar 
frozen or canned 1 cup chopped California walnuts 


1 cup heavy cream, whipped 


Crush cranberry sauce with fork. Add lemon juice. Pour into 
paper cups or refrigerator tray. Combine remaining ingredients and 
spread over cranberry mixture; freeze firm. Unmold on crisp lettuce. 
Pass salted nuts. 


CONGEALED FRUIT DELIGHT 


1 pint sour cream 1 large banana (over it pour 1 table- 
1 #2 can fruit cocktail spoon lemon juice) 

1/2 cup sugar , 9 marshmallows (cut very fine) 

12 maraschino cherries cut in half 1 1/2 teaspoon gelatin 


Soak gelatine in 2 tablespoons water. Place in warm water to melt 
gelatin. Drain fruit juice from fruit. To the fruit add sour cream, 
sugar, cherries, banana, lemon juice, marshmallows and melted gela- 
tin. Color as desired. Freeze in any type molds desired. 


BING A LING SALAD 


Juice of one lemon 1 large can Bing cherries 
2 packages cherry jello 2 cups grape juice 
1 cup nuts 1 carton cottage cheese 


Heat juice from cherries and add to jello. Cool. Add grape juice. 
_ When this begins to thicken add cherries, nuts and cottage cheese. 


DATE MINT SANDWICH 


2 cups creamed cottage cheese Butter 
1/2 cup chopped nuts Mint jelly 
1/2 cup chopped dates 


Mix cottage cheese, dates, and nuts together. Add enough butter 
to blend mixture. Spread on one slice of bread. Spread mint jelly, 
which has been heated slowly over low heat, on top of sandwich. Put 
in refrigerator to congeal. After jelly has congealed, cut with sham- 
rock or other special cutter. 


BANANA TEA BREAD 


Combine 1 stick margarine with 1 cup sugar. Add 2 eggs unbeaten, 
3 ripe bananas, mashed, and 1 cup all-purpose flour. Add 1 teaspoon 
soda. Mix in order given. Bake in deep pie pan or cobbler pan at 375 
for 25 minutes, or until brown and springy to the touch. Serve in 
wedges, hot or cold, with or without cream. 


Page Five 


JEWELLED HOLIDAY TREE 


1 cup milk, scalded 1 cake compressed yeast or 

1/2 cup shortening 1 package active dry yeast 

1/4 cup sugar 1/4 cup lukewarm water 

1 teaspoon salt 6 to 8 red or green candied cherries 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour for garnish 


2 eggs well beaten 


Combine milk, shortening, sugar, and salt. Add 2 cups flour: beat 
until smooth. Add eggs. Add. yeast, softened in lukewarm water. Mix 
thoroughly. Add remaining flour and knead. Cover and let rise in a 
warm place until double in bulk. Punch down. Shape teaspoonfuls 
of batter into balls and place balls 1/4 inch apart on a greased baking 
sheet in the shape of a triangle 8” tall with a 6-in. base. Start at top 
with 1 ball, second row 2 balls, next 3 and 4. Make a row of five and 
last a row of six. Use 2 balls to shape trunk of tree. Let rise until 
double in bulk. Bake in 375° oven for 15 to 18 minutes. Any yeast bread 
recipe can be used. Decorate: when slightly cool, drizzle with con- 
fectioners’ sugar glaze. Garnish with candied cherry pieces or spread 
with red jelly, top with coconut. Yield: 3 holiday trees. 


APPLE SAUCE BREAD 


1/3 cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon allspice 

2 cups sifted flour 1 cup raisins 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup thick apple sauce 


1 cup nuts, chopped 
or 1 cup fruit mixture 


Cream shortening, add sugar and cream together well. Beat egg 
into mixture. Sift together twice flour, salt, soda, cinnamon and all- 
spice. Dredge raisins with 1/4 cup flour and add to cream mixture. 
Add remaining dry ingredients and apple sauce alternately, mixing 
well after each addition. Bake in well greased pan in a moderate 
oven, 350°, about an hour. If muffin tins are used for cup cakes, fill 
3/4 full and bake at 375° about 25 minutes. 


STUFFED PICNIC ROLLS 


2 tablespoons fat 1 teaspoon mustard 
1 Ib. hamburger 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 onion, chopped 1 cup shredded cheese 


1/3 cup catsup 


Combine meat, fat and onion and cook in frying pan until meat 
looses its red color. Add salt, catsup, Worchestershire sauce and cheese. 
Cook slowly ten minutes. Split buns and hollow out the inside. Spread 
surface with mustard. Fill each bun with mixture (easier to fill if mix- 
ture is chilled.) Wrap in aluminum foil. Store in vapor-moisture resist- 
ant wrap and freeze. At serving time, heat and serve rolls wrapped in 
foil... Heat over an open grate or in oven. 


Page Six 


BROILED HAM TIDBITS 


7 slices fresh or frozen bread Pimiento strips, thinly sliced 3/4- 
Prepared mustard inch long 
1 3-ounce can deviled ham 


Remove crusts from bread slices, and thinly spread each slice with 
mustard. Spread deviled ham on bread over mustard. Cut each slice 
into 3 strips; these may again be cut in half if desired. Garnish with 
pimiento strips. Remove from freezer, place bread strips on baking 
sheet with 4-5 inches from top of food to broiler unit. Broil until light- 
ly browned. Serve at once. 


CHEESE WAFERS 


2 cups grated cheese 1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 stick butter 1/4 teaspoon red pepper 
1 cup flour 3/4 cup pecans, finely chopped 


Sift flour with salt and red pepper, mix with nuts and cheese. 
Cream butter and add to above mixture. Shape into two rolls and 
place in refrigerator or freezer to chill. Slice thin, place on cookie sheet 
and bake at 375° for 8 to 10 minutes. 


OATEN BREAD 


1 cup rolled oats 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 1/4 cup buttermilk or sour milk 
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons slightly cooled melted 
1/2 cup sugar , fat 

1/2 teaspoon soda 1 cup diced, drained, cooked prunes 


1/2 cup chopped nuts 


Sift together flour, sugar, baking powder, soda, and salt. Add to 
rolled oats and mix thoroughly. Combine milk with slightly cooled 
fat. Add to the flour mixture with prunes and nuts stirring just 
enough to moisten dry ingredients. Bake in cold greased loaf pan for 
1 hour at 350° until done. Ideal for sandwiches with butter or cream 
cheese for afternoon snacks or parties. Makes delicious toast for 
breakfast. Freezes well. 


- ORANGE NUT BREAD 


2 cups all-purpose flour 3/4 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons lemon juice 1/2 cup sugar 

1 teaspoon grated orange rind 1 egg 

1/4 teaspoon lemon rind 1/4 cup shortening 


3/4 cup coarsely cut pecans 3/4 cup strained orange juice 


1 teaspoon baking soda 


Sift, then measure flour. Sift again with soda, salt and sugar. 
Combine well-beaten egg, orange juice, lemon Juice, grated rind and 
melted shortening. Add the dry ingredients stirring only until well 
- mixed. Add cut nut meats. Turn into small bread tin, lined with waxed 
paper which has been greased. Cover and let stand 20 minutes. Bake in 
moderate oven, 350°, for 1 hour. 


Page Seven 


DRESSINGS AND SPREADS 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD DRESSING ... never hardens in freezer 


1 cup sugar 1/2 cup water 

2/3 cup light corn syrup 2 egg whites 

1/2 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon grated orange rind 
1/8 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 


Combine sugar, corn syrup and water, cook to thread stage (240°). 
Slowly pour syrup over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly 
while adding syrup. Cool. Fold in remaining ingredients. Freeze. 


NIPPY NECTAR DRESSING 
(A Tart Dressing that Blends so Well with Fruit Salads) 


One 3 oz. package cream cheese 1/2 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons honey Dash cayenne 
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel 1/2 cup salad oil 


2 tablespoons lemon juice 


Soften cheese. Blend in all ingredients except salad oil. Add salad 
oil, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating well after each addition. Chill. 
Makes 1 cup. 


Note: This is so easy in the blender. In about a minute all ingredients 
are easily and beautifully blended. All ingredients can be added at once. 


QUICK CREAMY SPREAD 


3 tablespoons sour cream 1 hardcooked egg quartered 
1/2 medium onion, cut in pieces 2 two-oz. cans anchovy fillets 


Place all ingredients in blender. Cover and blend for 25 to 30 
seconds or until smooth. Place in bowl, cover and chill. Spread on 
crisp crackers or melba toast. Makes about 1 cup. 


BOILED SALAD DRESSING 


1/2 teaspoon dry mustard 1/2 cup cold water 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 whole egg or 2 yolks 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup vinegar 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 


1/4 teaspoon paprika 


Dissolve mustard, sugar, salt, flour, paprika in cold water. Beat 
egg in sauce pan, add vinegar. To this add first mixture and cook 
over low heat until thick and smooth. Add butter and stir. Chill. This 
may be thinned with cream. 


rhea in turkey or chicken salad, or used with vegetable or potato 
salad. 


Page Eight 


BEVERAGES 


HOT MULLED PINEAPPLE PUNCH 


1/2 cup sugar 10 whole cloves 

1 cup water 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind one 46-oz. can unsweetened pine- 
5 inches stick cinnamon apple juice 


Simmer sugar, water, lemon rind, spices, for 15 minutes. Strain. 
Add lemon and pineapple juices. Heat until piping hot. Serve hot with 
stick cinnamon for stirrers. Makes 10 servings. 


CRANBERRY PUNCH 


4 cups cranberry juice 1 tablespoon almond extract 
1 1/2 cups sugar 2 quarts ginger ale 
4 cups pineapple juice 


Combine first four ingredients. Stir until sugar is dissolved; chill, 
add ginger ale just before serving. Serves 30. 


GALA GARNISHES 


PERKY FRESH MINT 


Wash bunch of mint; shake it dry. Stand upright in container that 
is tall enough and wide enough to allow mint to spread a bit. Cover 
and refrigerate overnight or until mint is perky. 


FROSTY RIMS 


For a frost on rims of your tall glasses, dip edge of each glass 
lightly first into lemon juice, then into granulated sugar; chill a while. 


GARNISHED ICE CUBES 


Pour water into freezing tray till about two thirds full; then let 
cubes freeze. Now place any one, or combination, of the following on 
top of cubes; then pour on just enough water to cover. Finish freezing; 
then remove ice cubes. 


Orange, lemon, or lime slices, cut in- Fresh unhulled strawberries, halved 
to small wedges Purple grapes, halved; or whole 
Red or green maraschino cherries, green grapes 
halved or sliced Dried apricot halves 
Canned pineapple tidbits Fresh sweet cherries 
Fresh mint sprigs Fresh cranberries 
Fresh raspberries or blueberries 


Page Nine 


PUNCH ICE FLOAT 


Pour water into large loaf pan (not glass) till about half-full; 
freeze. Arrange washed unhulled strawberries on top of ice. Cover well 
with water. Finish freezing. (It’s best to have a pan especially for this 
purpose, as it may be forced out of shape when water freezes.) 


FLAVORED ICE CUBES 


Into small freezing tray, empty thawed contents of 1 can frozen 
lemonade, limeade, orange, tangerine, or grape-juice concentrate. 
Set ice-cube section in place; slowly fill with water. Freeze. 


PUNCH BOWLS 


Gay bowl substitutes do just as well. No punch bowl at hand with 
which to serve the gang? Never mind. Just bring out one or two of 
your big wooden salad bowls or gay kitchen mixing bowl, a soup 
ladle, paper cups, and tiny paper doilies—and let these pinch-hit for 
more elaborate appointments. 


TINTED CUBES 


Substitute water, delicately tinted with green or red maraschino 
cherry juice; grenadine, or food color for concentrate and water. 


FLOAT ONE OF THESE ON TOP 


Twists of lemon or lime peel 

Orange, lemon, or lime wedges 

Blobs of whipped cream, sprinkled 
with cinnamon; nutmeg; choco- 
late shavings; shredded coconut; 
or grated orange, lemon, or lime 
rind 


ADDED EXTRAS 


Fruit kabobs: plum grapes, sweet 
cherries, or pineapple chunks and 
mint leaves, strung on stirrers. Or 
strawberries, raspberries, blue- 
berries, or maraschino cherries 
and lemon or lime slices, strung 
on toothpicks 


Scoops of ice cream 

Lemon or orange slices, stuck with 
cloves 

Notched lemon or lime slices; or 
halved orange slices 

Twisted orange, lemon, or lime slices 


Cinnamon sticks, as stirrers 

Twists of cucumber peel 

Cubes, slices, or whole block of 
frozen strawberries, raspberries, 
or peaches, to float in glasses or 
punch bowl 

Tiny pitcherful of lemon or lime 
juice, to flavor iced tea 


HANG ONE OF THESE OVER EDGE OF GLASSES 


Tiny bunches of grapes 
Unhulled large strawberries 


Page Ten 


Unpeeled banana slices 
Long twists of orange peel 


CAKES 


JIFFY FROSTED ANGELS 


One 10” x 4” x 2” loaf angel cake 1 lb. confectioners’ sugar, sifted (3 
3 tablespoons butter or margarine 1/2 cups) 
1/3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 


two 3 1/2 oz. cans flaked coconut 
toasted, or 2 cups finely chopped 
walnuts 


Cut angel cake in ten one-inch slices, cut each slice lengthwise in 
thirds to make bars. Heat butter and milk. Stir into confectioners’ 
sugar. Add vanilla (if necessary add a bit more milk to make icing 
proper consistency for brushing onto cake.) Brush cake bars with icing 
(use pastry brush) and roll in coconut. Place on rack to dry. Note: 
Silver shot is an attractive addition to “angels” at Christmas. Makes 30. 


CHRISTMAS CAKE 


3/4 cup milk 11/2 stick butter 
1 1/2 oranges, grated 3 cups sugar 
1 1/2 packages dates chopped (6 1/2 3 cups flour 
oz. size) 3 eggs 
1 1/2 cans black walnuts, chopped 3/4 pint whipping cream 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, add 2 1/2 cups flour alternately 
with milk. Fold in dates, nuts and oranges with additional 1/2 cup 
flour. Bake in greased oblong pan 8” x 12” x 2” (350°) 1 hour and 20 
minutes. Serve topped with whipping cream. 


CHEERY CHERRY CAKE 


2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 1/2 cup sugar 2 teaspoons almond extract 

3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 

1 teaspoon salt 18 maraschino cherries, drained well, 
1 stick butter or margarine chopped fine 

3/4 cup milk 1/2 cup walnuts, chopped fine 


1/4 cup cherry juice 


Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, salt into mixing bowl. Add short- 
ening. Combine milk and cherry juice. Add 3/4 cup of this liquid i 
the dry ingredients. Add flavoring extracts. Beat 200 strokes or 
minutes in electric mixer. Add remaining liquid and egg whites and 
beat same amount again. Add cherries and nuts and blend. Bake in two 
9-inch pans which have been greased and floured at 375°, 20-25 


minutes. Ice if desired. 


HONEY CRISP BRUNCH CAKE 


1 recipe Quick Coffee Cake batter 1/4 cup shredded coconut 


: flakes 
tter or margarine 1/2 cup crushed corn 
_ baa 7 1/2 cup drained, crushed pineapple 


Page Eleven 


Cream together butter or margarine and honey until light and 
fluffy. Add coconut, crushed corn flakes and pineapple and mix 
thoroughly. Spread over quick coffee cake before baking. 


QUICK COFFEE CAKE 


1 1/2 cups sifted enriched flour 1 egg, beaten very slightly 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 cup milk 
1/2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted shortening 


1/2 cup sugar 


Sift together flour, baking powder, salt and sugar. Combine egg, 
milk and shortening. Add to flour mixture, stirring until mixture is 
smooth. Pour into greased pan (8” square or 9” round). Bake in mod- 
erately hot oven (400° F) 25 minutes. Makes 1 coffee cake. Reheat, after 
freezing, in 350° oven for 45 minutes. 


DATE CAKE 

First Part: Second Part: 

1 package scalded dates cut fine 1 cup water 

1 package raisins cut in half 1 cup sugar 

1 cup chopped black walnuts 3/4 cup butter 

1 cup hot water 3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
meee 


Place fruit in bowl. Pour water with soda over fruit. Let stand 
while mixing part 2. Mix. Add fruit mixture. Bake in three cake pans. 


Filling For Date Cake: 
1 lb. powdered sugar 2 tablespoons cocoa 
3 tablespoons butter 


Cream sugar and butter. Add cocoa. Mix with enough warm coffee to 
spread easily. Put between layers and on top. 


PRALINE BROILED ICING 


Combine well 1/3 cup melted butter, margarine or shortening; 1/2 
cup brown sugar, packed; 1/4 cup milk; dash salt; 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 
extract; cup snipped shredded coconut; 1/2 cup chopped nuts. Spread 
over top of hot 9x9x2 plain cake. Broil slowly until golden (about 5 
minutes). Watch carefully. 


HAYWOOD COUNTY PRUNE CAKE 


1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup vegetable oil 1 teaspoon allspice 

3 eggs 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup buttermilk 

2 cups sifted flour 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup cooked, pitted, chopped prunes 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Page Twelve 


_ 3/4 cup salad oil 


- 3 cups plain flour 
_ 4 whole eggs 


- 12 individual angel food cakes 
1/2 pint whipping cream 


Blend sugar and oil. Add eggs, one at a time, and mix well. Add 
vanilla. Sift flour with soda, spices and salt. Add to egg mixture 
alternately with buttermilk, blending well after each addition. Add 
nuts and prunes ... Pour into a greased pan—it just fits into one 
11 x 8 inches and 2 inches deep. Bake at 325° for 1 hour or until it 
tests done. 


BUTTERMILK ICING 


1 cup granulated sugar 
1/2 cup buttermilk 
1/2 teaspoon soda 


1 tablespoon light corn syrup 
1/4 cup butter 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix all ingredients together in a deep pan—otherwise it will boil 
over. Stir over low heat until sugar is dissolved. Continue cooking, 
without stirring, to the soft ball stage ... Pour mixture over hot cake 
without beating. Spread evenly. Leave the cake in the pan until ready 
to cut into blocks for serving. Because it is a tender cake, it will break 
otherwise. 


CARROT CAKE 


2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup nut meats (walnuts or pecans) 


2 cups sugar 
3 cups very finely grated carrots 


Into large bow] put oil and 1 cup sugar. Beat and add eggs one at 
a time. Beat after each egg. Sift flour and dry ingredients. Add slowly 
to oil and sugar and egg mixture. Blend well. Add carrots, fold in nuts, 
bake in 350° oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes in tube cake pan. 


Orange Icing: 


Combine: 6 to 8 teaspoons orange juice 
6 tablespoons melted butter or 1 box confectioners’ sugar 
margarine Dash of salt 


1 teaspoon orange rind, grated 


TUTTI FRUTTI ANGEL CAKE 


1/2 teaspoon artificial rum flavoring 

1/4 cup frozen orange juice concen- 
trate 

1/4 cup strained apricot and apples 
(baby food labeled apricot-apple- 
sauce is excellent) 

1/2 cup sugar 


When cakes are cold remove from pan and split crosswise. Whip 


1/2 cup chopped walnuts 
1/2 cup chopped maraschino cherries 


cream, fold in walnuts, cherries and rum flavoring. Spread between 


halves of cake. Combine the undiluted orange juice concentrate, apri- 


cots and applesauce with the sugar. Stir over low heat until sugar 
melts. Boil gently for 5 minutes. Brush glaze over top of cake, letting 


it run over sides. Top with more whipped cream mixture. Serves 12. 


Page Thirteen 


COOKIES 


LEMON ANGEL HALOS 


Sift together: Cream together: 

2 cups flour 2/3 cup shortening 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup firmly packed brown sugar 
1 teaspoon soda 

Add: 


1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 egg, beat well 


Blend in dry ingredients gradually. Mix thoroughly. Chill while | 


making meringue and filling. MERINGUE: Beat 3 egg whites until 
foamy. Add 3 cups sugar gradually, beating thoroughly after each 
addition until meringue stands in heavy peaks when beater is up. 
Blend in 2 teaspoons lemon juice. Continue beating until meringue 


again forms sharp peaks. Shape chilled dough into balls using 1 level © 


teaspoon of dough for each ball. Place 1 rounded teaspoon of meringue 
on each cookie. Hollow center with teaspoon. Bake at 300°, 10 to 12 
minutes, until cream colored. When cool, fill each meringue “nest” 
with 1/4 teaspoon lemon filling. LEMON FILLING: Combine 38 slight- 
ly beaten egg yolks, 1 cup sugar, 1/4 cup lemon juice and 1 teaspoon 
grated lemon rind in saucepan. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Re- 
move from heat, add 3 tablespoons butter, cover and cool. 


SPICED CHERRY BELLS... Bake at 350° 12-15 minutes. Makes 51/2 | 


dozen. 
Sift together: 1 teaspoon ginger 
3 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon instant coffee 


1/2 teaspoon soda 
1/2 teaspoon salt 


Set aside. Add: 1 1/4 cups firmly packed brown sugar gradually — 


to 1 cup shortening creaming well. Blend in 1/4 cup dark corn syrup, 
1 unbeaten egg and 1 tablespoon cream. Beat well. Add dry ingredi- 


ents, mix thoroughly. Roll out dough on floured surface to 1/8 inch 


thickness, cut into 2 1/2 inch rounds, or smaller, place on ungreased 


baking sheets. Place a half teaspoon of filling in center of each round. — 
Shape into bell by folding sides to meet over filling, making top of bell © 
narrower than clapper end. Place a piece of maraschino cherry (cut into 


quarters or halves) at open end of each bell for clapper. Bake. NUT 
FILLING: Combine 1/3 cup firmly packed brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
butter, and 3 tablespoons maraschino cherry juice. Mix well. Add 
1 1/2 cups chopped pecans. 


ROSETTE COOKIES 


2 eggs 1 cup sifted enriched flour 
1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup milk 
1/4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Page Fourteen 





Combine eggs, sugar, salt. Beat well. Add flour, milk and vanilla. 
Beat until smooth. Heat rosette iron in deep, hot fat (400°) 2 minutes. 
Drain off excess fat from iron; dip into batter to 1/4 inch from top of 
iron, then immediately into hot (400°) fat. 

Fry rosette until golden brown, about 1/2 minute. Lift out; tip up- 
side down to drain. Push rosette off iron onto absorbent paper. Re- 
heat iron 1 minute before making next rosette. 

Sprinkle rosettes with sugar, tinted with red or green food color- 
ing, if desired. Makes about 2 1/2 to 3 dozen. 


MINCEMEAT MUNCHES 


1/4 cup fat 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1/2 cup sugar 1 1/4 cup flour 

1 egg 1/2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup mincemeat , 1/2 cup nuts 


1/2 teaspoon each nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, allspice 


Cream butter and sugar together. Add egg, beating thoroughly. 
Add mincemeat and flour. Drop on a greased baking sheet and cook at 
375°, 15-20 minutes or until brown. 


. COFFEE-SPICE DROPS 


Mix together thoroughly: Sift together and stir in: 

1 cup soft shortening 3 1/2 cups sifted flour 
_ 2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

Stir in: 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1/2 cup cold coffee 1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Chill at least 1 hour. Drop rounded teaspoonfulls about 2” apart on 
lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until set . . . Just until almost no 
imprint remains when touched lightly. Temperature 400° (moderately 
hot). Time: 8 to 10 minutes. Amount: about 6 doz. 


ORANGE PECAN CRISPS 


1 cup easy-mix shortening 2. tablespoons orange juice 
1/2 cup brown sugar, firmly packed 2 3/4 cups sifted flour 

1/2 cup granulated sugar 1/4 teaspoon soda 

1 egg, beaten 1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons grated orange peel 1/2 cup chopped pecans 


Cream shortening, add sugars and cream thoroughly; add egg, 
ecrange peel and ace Add dry ingredients, sifted together, poet 
pecans. (Pecans chopped in a mixer-blender do better.) hape done 
into rolls and wrap in foil paper or waxed paper. Chill for at ert : 
hours. Slice about 1/8 inch thick. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet a 
- 400° for seven minutes. Makes about 6 dozen cookies. This dough can 
be frozen. 


Page Fifteen 


FROSTIES 


1 cup (6 oz.) semi-sweet chocolate 1 cup finely chopped nutmeats 
pieces 1/3 cup cold coffee brew 
5 cups Sugar Frosted Flakes (sugar 3 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar 


coated corn flakes) 
3 tablespoons light corn syrup 


Melt chocolate over hot but not boiling water. Remove from heat. 
Crush Sugar Frosted Flakes into fine crumbs. Combine chocolate, — 
Sugar Frosted Flakes crumbs, corn syrup, nutmeats, coffee brew and 
sugar; knead well. Form into balls about 1 inch in diameter. Roll balls 
in granulated sugar; place in covered container. Let ripen overnight 
or for several days before serving. 


SAUCEPAN BROWNIES 


1/3 cup shortening 2 eggs 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 3/4 cup sifted flour 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 3/4 cup chopped nuts 


Melt shortening and chocolate in saucepan over low heat, stirring 
constantly; cool. Beat in vanilla and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, 
beating will after each addition. Sift flour and salt; add nuts. Combine 
with chocolate mixture and blend. Turn into greased, waxed-paper- 
lined 8 x 8 x 2 inch pan. Bake in moderate oven, 325°, for about 


25 minutes. Turn out on cake rack; remove paper, cool and cut in 
squares. 


SKILLET COOKIES 


2 eggs Pinch salt 
1 cup sugar 2 cups Rice Krispies 
2 one-layer packages of pitted chop- 1 teaspoon vanilla 
ped dates, or one 2-layer package 1/2 cup chopped nuts, if desired 


Angel flake coconut 


Mix eggs and sugar and salt in cold frying pan, add dates which 
have been chopped. Cook on low heat for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring 
a good part of the time. Remove from heat, add rice krispies, vanilla 
and nuts. Mix well and set aside to cool. Shape into roll about the 


size of your thumb and roll in angel flake coconut. Cut into pieces 
about an inch long. 


Page Sixteen 


~ 


PIES 


ICE CREAM-MINCEMEAT PIE 


1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs 1 cup mincemeat, well drained 
(18 crackers) 1 quart vanilla ice cream 

1/3 cup sugar 

1/2 cup melted butter 


Mix graham-cracker crumbs, sugar, and melted butter. Press firm- 
ly in greased 9-inch metal-rimmed paper pie plate. Chill until set, about 
45 minutes. Stir mincemeat into softened ice cream and place in freezer 
until almost firm. Fill pie shell with ice cream; top with whipped 
cream and chopped California walnuts. 


PUMPKIN PIE 


-1 package instant vanilla pudding 1 cup cold milk 
1 cup cooked pumpkin 1 cup cooked rice (cook rice using 1 
1/4 teaspoon allspice teaspoon almond or walnut fla- 


voring in the liquid.) 


Line a pie plate with your favorite crumb pie crust recipe. Add cold 
milk to vanilla pudding mix and mix. Add pumpkin, rice and allspice. 
Fill pie shell. Chill in refrigerator. Sweet potatoes may be used instead 
of pumpkin. 


STRAWBERRY PARFAIT PIE 


Flaky Crust: Sift together 1 cup enriched flour; 1/2 teaspoon salt. 
Cut in 1/3 cup shortening until particles are the size of small peas. 


Sprinkle 2 to 3 tablespoons cold milk over mixture, tossing lightly with 


fork until dough is moist enough to hold together. Form into ball. Roll 


- out on floured board to an 11-inch circle. Fit pastry loosely into pan. 
' Pat out air pockets. Fold edge to form standing rim. Flute. Pinch crust 


a“ 


with fork. Bake in hot oven (425°) 10-12 minutes. Cool. 


Filling: 1 package lemon jello, 1 pint strawberry ice cream, 1 1/4 cups hot 
water, 1 1/2 cups sliced fresh strawberries. 


Dissolve jello in hot water in 2 quart saucepan. Add ice cream, 
stirring in until melted. Chill until thickened but not set (15-20 min.). 
Fold in drained strawberries. Turn into baked 9 inch pie shell. Chill 
until firm. (20-25 min.). Garnish with additional strawberries. Note: Be 
sure fruit is drained of all juice. Juice can be used as liquid for jello. 
Fresh or frozen pineapple cannot be successfully used. 


Page Seventeen 


DESSERTS 


YULETIDE AMBROSIA 


12 lady fingers 1/2 cup orange juice 

1/2 pint heavy cream 1 small can well-drained crushed 

1/2 cup milk pineapple 

1 package instant or cooked vanilla 1/2 cup shredded coconut 
pudding 1/4 cup chopped nuts 


Arrange lady fingers in the bottom of a buttered (1 1/2 quart) loaf 
baking dish. Whip cream. Put milk into medium-sized mixing bowl. 
Add pudding to milk and beat until smooth and thick, using a rotary 
beater. Gradually add orange juice and beat until smooth. Fold in 
whipped cream, pineapple, and coconut. Pour over lady fingers in 


baking dish. Top with remaining lady fingers; sprinkle with tinted 


green coconut; add red cherries. Freeze. Yield: 6 servings. 


ANGEL CAKE SURPRISE 


Combine 1 cup heavy cream, whipped, with 3 tablespoons sugar © 
and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. Fold in 1/4 cup quartered maraschino cher- — 


ries, 1/4 cup quartered green cherries, 1/4 cup drained pineapple, 
1/4 lb. marshmallows cut in 1/8’s, and 1/2 cup chopped walnuts. Chill. 
Cut with serrated knife a l-inch slice from the top of a 10-inch round 





angel cake. Cut out a ring 2 inches wide and 2 inches deep. Spoon in © 
chilled filling. Replace slice from top. Frost top and sides with 1 1/2 © 


pint whipped cream sweetened with 3 tablespoons sugar. Chill. 
Decorate with pineapple chunks and cherries. 


RICE DELIGHT 


2 cups cooked chilled rice 1 1/2 cups quartered marshmallows 
1 #2 can crushed pineapple, drain 3/4 cup shredded coconut 
off 2/3 cup of the juice 1 cup cream whipped 


1/3 cup sugar 


_ Combine the pineapple, marshmallows and coconut. Stir in the | 
rice; whip the cream adding the sugar to the cream. Fold the rice 
mixture into the whipped cream and chill. Garnish with tinted coconut | 


sprinkled on top. 


PECAN TARTS 


Cream together one large package cream cheese and 1/4 lb. butter 
or margarine. Add 1 cup flour, mix well. Roll as thin as possible and 
place in greased small tart pan. 


Filling: Cream together 1/4 lb. real butter and 1/2 cup sugar, add 2 egg yolks, 
mix well. Add 1 cup pecans cut fine and 1 cup raisins cut. Beat egg whites with 
1/2 cup sugar and fold into mixture. Add 1 teaspoon of mixture to each tart. 
Bake 300° for 40 minutes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 


Page Eighteen 























CANDIES 


CHOCOLATE YULE LOG 


1/3 cup unseasoned mashed potatoes, 2 2/3 cups shredded coconut 
cooled ‘ 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 
1 3/4 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar 3 l-ounce squares semi-sweet choco- 


late, melted 


Place mashed potatoes in bowl; mix in confectioners’ sugar and 
coconut to form stiff mixture. Blend in vanilla. 

Shape in roll, 2 inches across. Spread melted chocolate over roll. 
Chill. Slice thin. Makes about 3 dozen pieces. 


PECAN ROLL 
1 1/2 cups white sugar 1/2 cup milk 
1 cup chopped dates 


Cook till makes soft ball. When warm add 1/2 cup nuts and 2 
tablespoons butter. Beat till cold. Knead on board covered with con- 
fectioners’ sugar. Let stand and cut. 


CHERRY RAISIN WHEELS 


1 lb. marshmallows 1 bottle maraschino cherries 
1 box graham crackers 1 lb. sticky raisins 


_1 cup sweet milk 2 cups nuts 


Melt marshmallows and add finely crushed crackers. Add fruit 
and make into four rolls. Roll in finely crushed cracker crumbs. 


SURPRISES 


PIZZA BITES 


Top crisp, tender crackers with flavorful cheese spread, dab of 
Chili sauce, and a slice of frankfurter. Bake in moderate oven 350° for 
10 minutes until bubbly. Good with pickles and olives on cocktail picks 


ICE CREAM WITH AMBROSIA SAUCE 

Cook 1 cup crushed pineapple (8 oz. can) with 1/2 cup granulated 
‘sugar 7 minutes or until syrupy. Add 2 tablespoons chopped pecans 
and maraschino cherries. Cool sauce. Add 1 sliced banana. Refrigerate. 
To serve, spoon sauce over plain ice cream or ice cream-filled cream 
puffs. 


BREADLESS HORS D’OEUVRES 


Cut cooked turkey or chicken in strips about 2 inches long, Be 
inch wide. Secure toothpick in each strip, dip one end in sue 
cream cheese and garden relish; ak cepa choca mixed with a 
little catsup. Roll dipped end in choppea nuts. 

Melon fee pecuned on toothpicks make excellent breadless hors 
- d’oeuvres. 

Page Nineteen 


MINIATURE HOT DOGS 


Split small pickles; stuff with mashed sharp cheese; spear to a 
stuffed olive with toothpick. 


SPICED NUTS 


2 cups nuts 1 teaspoon ground cloves 
1/2 cup sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
1 egg white, unbeaten 


Combine sugar and spices. Mix nuts and egg white until the nuts 
are well coated. Roll in spiced sugar and brown in 325° oven. 


DUNKS 


NUTTY FRUIT DUNK 


1 cup creamy cottage cheese 1/4 cup diced nuts 
8 oz. can applesauce 


Combine cottage cheese, applesauce and nuts. Divide into four 
small bowls. Chill before serving as dunk for fruit salad. Serves 4. 


HORSERADISH DIP 


1 carton cream style cottage cheese Dash of salt 
3 tablespoons milk 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire 
2 tablespoons horseradish 2 sprigs parsley 


Put all ingredients into blender. Cover and blend until smooth. 
This is particularly a nice dip to use with fruit and vegetables. 


COTTAGE CHEESE VITAMIN DIP 


1 green pepper 3 tablespoons light cream 

1/2 bunch water cress or parsley 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 cup (1/2 pt.) creamed cottage 1/8 teaspoon freshly ground pepper 
cheese Dash Tobasco Sauce 


12 stuffed olives sliced 


Wash, remove seeds and cut green pepper in pieces. Wash and dry 
parsley or water cress. Place in blender with all ingredients. Cover 
and blend. Chill. Makes 1 1/2 cups. 


CHEESE BUTTER 
(A Natural For The Blender) 


1/4 lb. sharp yellow cheese 1 tablespoon A-1 Sauce 
1/4 lb. Roquefort cheese 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 cup cottage cheese Dash of Cayenne 

1/2 cup buttermilk 1 tablespoon grated onion 


Dice cheese. Place liquids, then solids into blender container. 
Cover and blend 2 1/2 minutes. Chill. Spread on toast rounds and place 
under broiler a few minutes for special treat. Serve cold on a sandwich 
or as a dip. 


Page Twenty 


VARIETY FREEZER MEALS 


HAM MEAL 
HAM CONES 
1 pound cooked ham, ground 2 tablespoons pineapple syrup 
1 tablespoon onion, grated 1 egg, slightly beaten 
1 tablespoon parsley, chopped 1/2 cup crushed cornflakes 
1 tablespoon prepared mustard 6 pineapple slices 


Mix first 6 ingredients together thoroughly. Shape into 6 cone- 
shaped patties. Roll cones in cornflakes and freeze. To prepare for 
serving, place the 6 frozen Ham Cones on the pineapple slices in a 
shallow baking dish. Yield: 6 Ham Cones. 


HONEY-PECAN SWEET POTATOES 


3 to 4 medium-sized sweet potatoes, Salt, pepper 
cooked, peeled and sliced 1/4 cup butter or margarine 
1/2 cup light corn syrup 1/3 cup pecan halves 


1/4 cup honey 


Arrange potatoes in a greased 1 1/2 quart casserole. Add remaining 
ingredients. Wrap in moisture-vapor-proof material or tape on cover 
and freeze. Yield: 6 servings. 


PEAS AND CORN 


1 (12-0z.) package frozen peas 1/2 teaspoon monosdium glutamate 
1 (12-0z.) package frozen corn 2 tablespoons butter or margarine 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1/3 cup water 


Break vegetables apart and place vegetables in 2-quart casserole. 
Cut butter into small squares and scatter over top. Cover and seal. 
Yield: 6 servings. 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 


2 tablespoons maraschino cherry 1/2 cup chopped maraschino cherries 
juice 1/4 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/2 cup heavy cream 

1/2 cup diced, canned apricots 1/4 cup mayonnaise 


1/2 cup diced pineapple 
1/2 cup halved, seeded grapes 


Add cherry and lemon juice to fruits and sugar. Whip cream 
until stiff. Mix in mayonnaise and fold into fruit mixture. Spoon into 
individual cartons and freeze. Yield: 6 servings. 


Page Twenty-One 


CORN STICKS 


1/3 cup flour 1 1/3 cups corn meal 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1 beaten egg 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup buttermilk 

1/2 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons melted shortening or 
1 tablespoon sugar salad oil 


Sift flour, salt, baking powder, soda and sugar together into mixing 
bowl. Add sifted corn meal. Combine egg, buttermilk and shortening © 
and add to dry ingredients. Mix well. Pour batter into well-greased 
corn stick pan. Bake 25 minutes in 400° F. oven. Wrap in aluminum 
foil for freezing. Yield: 12 Corn Sticks. 


CRANBERRY CRUNCH 


1 cup uncooked quick-cooking oat- 1/2 cup butter or margarine 


meal 1 (1-pound) can whole cranberry 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour sauce 


1 cup brown sugar, firmly packed 
Note: Fresh cranberry sauce may be used instead of canned cranberry sauce. 


Mix oatmeal, flour and brown sugar together. Cut in butter until 
mixture is crumbly. Pack 1/2 of mixture in bottom of 1 1/2 quart 
greased baking dish. Cover with cranberry sauce. Top with remaining 
crumb mixture. Wrap in moisture-vapor-proof material and freeze. 
Bake unthawed for oven meal. 


After baking cut in squares and serve warm with vanilla ice 
cream or whipped cream. Yield: 6 to 8 servings. 


Directions For Cooking 


1. Unwrap or untape all. casserole dishes. 


2. Place Ham Cones and casserole containing mixed Peas and iComn on 
wae shelf, position A. Leave Corn Sticks in freezer foil; and place on this 
shel 


3. Place casseroles containing Hones: Pecan Sweet Potatoes and. Cranberry 
Crunch on top shelf, position C, reversible shelf up. 


4. Bake in a 375° F oven 45 minutes. 


SEAFOOD MEAL 
SEAFOOD CROQUETTES 


1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 lb. flaked salmon 1 beaten egg ' 
1 cup medium cheese sauce 1/2 cup chopped Beige 


4 cups crushed corn flakes. 


~ Add- lemon juice to salmon. Add remaining ingredients (making 
cheese sauce from medium white sauce to which 1/4 to 1/2 cup grated 


* Page Twenty-Two 








cheese has been added). Reserve 1 cup crushed cornflakes for rolling 
croquettes. Mix well. Roll in crushed flakes. Place on heavy cardboard 
covered with wax paper, wrap for freezing. : 


STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 


3 baking potatoes 2/3 tablespoon butter 
1/4 cup grated cheese salt, pepper to taste 


_ Bake potatoes at 400° for one hour. Cut into half and remove 
potatoes. Add butter, salt and pepper and enough milk to make fluffy 
when beaten. Pile into shells and top with grated cheese. Wrap for 
freezing. 


_ GREEN PEAS 


2 packages frozen peas 2 teaspoons salt 
1/4 cup water 4 tablespoons butter 


Place all ingredients in 2-quart casserole and cover. Peas can be 
cooked in light cream or 1 cup bouillon in place of water. 


CHICKEN MEAL 


. INDIVIDUAL CHICKEN LOAVES 


Saute in 1 tablespoon butter... 2 eggs 
_ 1/4 Ib. sliced mushrooms (4 oz. can) 1/2 teaspoon salt 
Mix together and add... 1/4 teaspoon paprika 
1 1/2 cup soft bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped or grated onion 
1 cup celery puree (made with 1/4 cup finely chopped pimento 
blender) 3 cups ground chicken 


1 cup chicken broth 


Pour into individual loaf pans, custard cups, or 9x5x3” loaf pan. 
Set pans in pan of water 1” deep. Bake 350° 60 minutes. 


Note: These may be wrapped and frozen. To bake remove from freezer 
and bake as instructed above. 


GREEN PEAS 


Place 1 package frozen peas in covered casserole. Season with 
butter, onion salt and add 1/4 cup water. Cook with oven meal 350 


1 hour. 


. BAKED SWEET POTATOES 


Bake sweet potatoes until tender but not well done. Wrap ne 
freeze. In oven meal leave potatoes in individually wrapped foil. Bake 


- without defrosting at 350° 1 hour. Split potatoes. Add butter and 


brown sugar. Serve hot. 
Page Twenty-Three 


BEEF MEAL 


BEEF BAR-B-Q'S 


1 1/2 lb. ground beef 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 


2 tablespoons chopped onion 
1 beaten egg 

1 cup milk 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 


Combine ingredients and mix well. Shape in thick patties, place in 
baking dish or thrift cooker, if you prefer. Pour over this your hot 
sauce. Bake in oven at 350° for about 1 hour. If using thrift cooker, 
start on high, switch to low. Serves 6-8. 


HOT SAUCE 


Cook 1/2 cup chopped onion in hot 
fat until golden 

Add: 

1 16-oz. can tomato paste 

1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 

1/8 teaspoon pepper 


2 teaspoons tobasco sauce 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 1/2 tablespoon chili powder 
1/4 cup lemon juice 

1 cup water 


Heat to boiling. Simmer 15 minutes. 


SWEET-SOUR BEETS 


1 No. 2 can small whole beets 
1/3 cup beet juice or water 
1/3 cup vinegar 


1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/8 teaspoon pepper 
4 teaspoons sugar 


Place beets in 1 quart casserole. Mix remaining ingredients and 
pour over beets. Cover and bake 1/2 hour at 350°. 


RAISIN BREAD PUDDING 


2 cups milk 

2 cups day-old bread 

1/4 cup brown sugar 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons melted margarine 


1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 beaten egg yolks 

2 cups seedless raisins 
2 egg whites 

3 tablespoons sugar 


Pour milk over bread cubes. Add brown sugar, salt, margarine, 
vanilla, egg yolks, and raisins. Spread in greased baking dish. Set in 


pan of hot water and bake in oven 350° 50-60 minutes. Serve with 
orange sauce, 


Page Twenty-Four 











FOR USE ONLY IN 
THE NORTH CAROLINA COLLECTION 


Y OF 


iii 


93125 


Form No. A-368, Rev. 8/95 








