Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


Danatb  College  Xtbtatj 


MISS  BEECHER'S 


HOUSEKEEPER 


AND 


HEALTHKEEPER; 

COMTJLINING 

FIVE  HUNDRED  RECIPES 

VOB 

ECONOMICAL  AND  HEALTm^UL  COOKING; 

ALSO, 

lANT  DIRECTIONS  FOR  SECURING  HEALTH  AND  HAPPINESS. 


APPROVED  BT  PHYSICIANS  OP  ALL  CLASSBS. 


NEW   YORK: 

HARPER   &   BROTHERS,   PUBLISHERS, 

FRAKKLIN    BQUARB. 

1874. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congren,  in  the  year  1878,  by 

Habpbb  &  Brothbbb, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


CONTENTS. 


PART  FIRST. 

CHAPTER  i. 

HEALTH,  ECOKOMT,  AND  PLEASURE  IN  WOOD, 

Bales  of  Health  in  regard  to  Food  and  Drink — Measures  used  in  Cook- 
ing.  Page  15 

CHAPTER  II. 

MAEKBTIHO  AND  THE  CAKE  OF  MEATS. 

Marketing— Beef— Different  "Cots,"  etc.— Veal— Motton— Pork— Poultry 
—Fish— Shell-fish— Care  of  Meats— To  salt  down  Beef— To  cleanse  CalTs 
Head  and  Feet — ^To  prepare  Rennet — To  salt  down  Fish — ^To  try  out 
Lard — Molasses-cored  Hams — ^Brine  for  coming  Hams,  Beef,  Pork,  etc 
— ^Another— ^Brine  by  Measure — ^To  salt  down  Pork — ^To  prepare  Cases 
for  Sausages— Sausage  Meat — Another  Recipe — Bologna  Sausages— To 
smoke  Hams...; 18 

CHAPTER  ni. 

STEWS  AMB   SOUPS. 

New  Soup  and  Stew  Kettle — General  Directions — Stews:  of  Beef  ana  Po- 
tato ;  Mutton  and  Turnip,  (French ;)  Simple  Mutton ;  Beef,  with  vegeta- 
ble fiarors;  Fowl,  with  Celery  or  Tomatoes — Irish  Stew — Veal  Stew — 
Anothei^-Pilaff  (Turkish)— Rice  or  Hominy  Stew— English  Beef  Stew— 
Pot  an  Feu  (French)— 011a  Podrida  (Spanish)— French  Mutton  Stew- 
French  Modes  of  Cooking— Flavors — Soup  Powder. 28 

CHAPTER  IV. 

SOUPSi. 

General  Directions— Soo]^  Stock— Soup  of  Potato— Plain  Beef— Rich  Beef- 
Green  Pea— Dried  J^ean  or  Pea— Chun— Vegetable  and  Meat  for  Sum- 
mei^-Dried  Pea,  with  salt  Pork— Dried  Bean  or  Pea,  with  Meat  stock-^ 
Mutton— Vegetable  (French)— Plain  Calf^s  £[ead— Simple  Mutton....  85 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  V. 

HASHES. 

Foot  Wrjs  of  spoiling  Hashes— Hashes :  of  Fresh  Meats,  seosoi^ ;  «(7oId 
fresh  Meats  and  Potatoes ;  Meat,  with  Eggs ;  Meat,  with  Tomatoes ;  Beef; 
Veal ;  Rice  and  cold  Meats ;  Bread-crumbs  and  cold  Meats ;  Another ; 
Cold  Bee&teak ;  Same,  with  Potatoes  and  Turnips ;  Cold  Mntton  or  Ven- 
ison; Corned  Beef;  Cold  Ham — Meats  warmed  orer — To  Cook  cold 
Meats — Cold  meat  Hash — Souse — Tripe Page  39 

CHAPTER  VI. 

BOILKD   MBAT8. 

To  Cook  toagh  Beef— Boiled  Ham— Beef— Fowls— Fricasseed  Fowls— To 
bofl  Leg  or  Shoulder  of  Veal,  Mutton,  or  Lamb^Calf  *s  Feet — Calf  s  Liver 
and  Sweet-breads — Kidneys— Pillau — Smoked  Tongue — Corned  Beef — 
Partridges  or  Pigeons — Ducks— Turkey 43 

CHAPTER  VII. 

BOAST  AND  BAKED  MEATS. 

The  best  Beef— Brown  Flour  for  Gravies — Roast  Beef— To  roast  in  a  Cook- 
stove— Roast  Pork ;  Mutton ;  Veal ;  Poultry — Pot-pie  of  Beef,  Veal,  or 
Chicken — Mutton  and  Beef  Pie — Chicken-pie-rRice  Chicken-pie — Potato- 
pie— Calf's  Head 46 

CHAPTER  VIU. 

BBOILBD  AND  FBIED  MEATS  AND  BELI8UB8. 

Boiled  Mutton  or  Lamb  Chops;,  Beefsteak;  Fresh  Pork;  Ham;  Sweet- 
breads ;  Veal— Pork  Relish— Frying— Calf's  or  Pig's  Liver— Beef  Liver— 
Egg  Omelet— Frizzled  Beef— Veal  Cheege— Codfish  Relish— Another— 
Salt  Herrings 50 

CHAPTER  IX. 

PICKLES. 

General  Directions — Sweet  Pickles — To  pickle  Tomatoes ;  Peaches ;  Pep-, 
pers ;  Nasturtions ;  Onions ;  Gherkins ;  Mushrooms ;  Cucumbers ;  Wal- 
nuts.; Mangoes ;  Cabbage — To  prepare  Tomatoes  for  eating — Martinoes — 
Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles — Indiana  Pickles — Cauliflower  or  Broccoli...  53 

CHAPTER  X. 

SAUCES  AND  SALADS. 

WMk  and  Egg  Sauce— Drawn  Butter— Mint  Sauce — Cranberry  Sauce — ^Ap- 
ple Sauce — ^Walnut  or  Butternut  Catsup— Mock  Capers — Salad  Dressing — 
Turkey  or  Chicken  Salad— Lettuce  Salad— Tomato  Catsup. &6 


CONTENTS.  6 

CHAPTER  XI. 

FX8H. 

OTSten,  Stewed ;  Fried ;  Scalloped ;  Broiled — Oyster  Fritters — Ojster  Ome- 
let— Pickled  Oysters — Roast  Oysters-^Scallops— Clams — Clam  Chowder 
—fish,  Boiled;  Broiled;  Baked— Pickle  for  cold  Fish Page  58 

CHAPTER  XII. 

TSOETABLE8. 

General  Remarks — Potatoes — Old  Potatoes — Potato  Puffs— Sweet  Potatoes 
— Green  Com — Succotash — Oyster-plant  or  Salsify — Egg-plant — Carrots 
— Beets — Parsnips — Pampkin  and  Sqnash — Celery — Radishes — Onions — 
Tomatoes — Cacambers — Cabbage  and  Cauliflower — Asparagos— Maca- 
roni—Eggs. 60 

CHAPIER  XII  r. 

FAMILY   BREAD. 

General  Remarks — Fine  and  unbolted  Flour — Middlings — Kneading— Yeast: 
Hop  and  Potato;  Potato;  Hard — Bread:  of  fine  Flour;  of  middling 
or  unbolted  Flour ;  raised  with  Water ;  Rye  and  Indian ;  Third ;  Rye ; 
Oat-meal ;  Pumpkin ;  Apple ;  Com-n^eal — Sweet  Rolls  of  Corn-meal — 
Soda  Biscuit — ^Teast  Biscuit — Potato  Biscuit — Bnn? 64 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

DRBAKFA8T  AND  SUPPKR. 

General  Supplies — Recdpts  for  Com-meal — Hominy — lUce — Economical 
Breakfast  Dish — Biscuits  of  sour  Milk  and  Flour — Pearl  or  cracked  Wheat 
— Rye  and  Com  Meal— Oat-meal — Wheat  Muffins — Sally  Lunn,  improved 
— Cream  Griddle-cakes — Royal  Crampets — Muffins — ^Waffles — Drop-cakes 
— Sachem's  Head  Com-cake— Rice  Waffles — A  Rice  Dish— To  use  cold 
Rice—Buckwheat  Cakes— Cottage  Cheese 70 

CHAPTER  XV. 

PUDDINGS   AKD  PIES. 

Sweet  Food,  Remarks — Queen  of  all  Puddings — Flour  Pudding — Flour  and 
Frait  Pudding— Ruek  and  Milk— Rusk  Pudding— Meat  and  Rusk  Pud- 
ding— ^A  good  Pudding — Pan  Dowdy — Com-meal  Pop^ver — Best  Ap- 
ple-pie— Puddings :  of  Rice ;  Bread  and  Frait ;  Boiled  Frait — Curds  (En- 
glish)— Common  Apple-pie — Plain  Custard — Another — Mush  or  Hasty 
Padding — Stale  Bread  Pudding — Rennet  Wine — Rennet  Custard — Bird  s- 
nest  Pudding — Minute  Pudding  of  Potato  Starch — Tapioca  Pudding — 
Cocoa-nut  Pudding — ^New-England  Squash  or  Pumpkin  Pie — Ripe-frait 
Pics:  Peach,  Cherry,  Plum,  Currants,  and  Strawberry — Mock  Cream — 
Pudding  of  Bread-crumbs  and  Frait — Bread  and  Apple  Dumplings — Indian 


6  coirrsMTB. 

Padding  withoat  Eggs— Boiled  Indian  and  Snet  Padding— DesJBert  of  Rice 
and  Frnit— Another— Cold  Rice  and  stewed  or  grated  Apple— Rich  Flour 
Padding — ^Apple-pie— Spiced  Apple-tarts — ^Baked  Indian  Padding — Ap- 
ple Castard— Macaroni  or  Vermicelli  Padding— Green-corn  Padding — 
Bread.  Padding  for  Invalids  or  joang  Children— A  good  Padding— Loaf 
Padding — ^Lemon  Padding— Green-corn  Patties — Cracker  Plam-pndding 
— Sances  for  Paddings,  Liqaid— Hard-r-Another^-A  healthfol  Sance— 
UniTersal  Sance— Paste  for  Paddings  and  Pies— Pie-crnsts  withoat  Fats ; 
made  with  Batter,  rery  rich Page  74 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

CAKE. 

General  Directions. — Cake  raited  with  Powders— One,  two,  three,  fonr  Cake 
— Chocolate ;  Jelly ;  Orange ;  Almond  and  Cocoa-nnt. — Cake  raieed  with 
JJ^9»— Poand  Cake ;  PUun;  Frait;  Huckleberry;  Gold  and  Silver;  Rich 
Sponge;  Plain  Sponge — Gingerbread,  etc— Aunt  Esther's  Gingerbread^ 
.  Sponge  Gingerbread— Ginger  Snaps— Seed  Cookies— Fried  CaktB.^Cake$ 
raised  with  Yeas/- Plain  Louf-cake— Rich  Loaf-cake— Doagh-cake — 
Icing  for  Cake , 86 

CHAPTER  XVIL 

PRE8EBTV8  AND  JBLLIX8. 

General  I^irections — Canned  Froit — To  darifjr  Simps  for  Sweetmeats — 
Brandy  Peaches — Peaches  (not  rich) — Peaches  (elegant) — To  preserre 
Qoinces  whole — Quince  Jelly — Calf-foot  JeUy — ^To  preserve  Apples — ^Pears 
^Pine-apples — Purple  Ploms,  No.  1  and  No.  2 — ^White  or  green  Plums 
— Citron  Melons — Strawberries — ^Blackbeny  Jam — Currants  to  eat  with 
Meat — Cherries — Currants — ^Raspberry  Jam,  No.  1  and  No.  2 — Currant 
Jelly — Qpince  Marmalade— Water-mdon  Rinds — ^Preserved  Pumpkin .  90 

CHAPTER  XVin. 

DB88SBT8  AND  EYENINO  PABTIB8. 

Ice-cream — Strawberry  Ice-cream — ^Ice-cream  withoat  Cream — Fruit  Ice- 
cream— ^A  Cream  for  stewed  Fruit — Currant,  Raspberry,  or  Strawberry 
Whisk — Lemonade — Ice  and  other  Ices — Charlotte  Russe— Flummeiy — 
Chicken  Salad — Wine  Jelly — ^Apple-lemon  Pudding — ^Wheat-flour  Bkinc- 
mange — Orange  Marmalade — Simple  Lemon  Jelly — Cranbeny — ^Apple 
Ice— Whip  Syllabub— Apple-snow — Iced  Fruit— Onuunental  I^th — ^To 
clarify  Isinglass — Blanc-mange-7-Apple  Jelly — Orange  Jelly— Floating 
Idand — ^A  Dish  of  Snow — To  clarify  Sugar — Candied  Fruits— Another 
way — Ornamental  Pyhunid 95 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

DBIHKS  AND  ABTIGLK8  FOB  THJB  SICK  AND  TOUNO  CHILDBBN. 

Tea— Cofieee— Ush-skin  for  Coffee— Cocoa-— Cream  for  Coffee  and  Tea— 


CONTENTS.  7 

Chocolate — ^MUk  Lemonade — Strawberry  and  Raspberry  Vinegar— White 
.  Xea  and  Boys'  Ck)fiee— Dangerous  use  of  Milk — Simple  Drinks — Simple 
Wine  Whey — ^Toast  and  Cider — Panada — ^Water-gruel — Beef-tea — Toma- 
to  Sirup— Sassafras  Jelly — Egg-tea,  Egg-coffee,  and  Egg-milk — Oat-meal 
Gruel — Pearl  Barley-water— Cream-tartar  Beverage — Kennet  Whey — A 
fever  Drink — Food,  etc.,  for  Infiints Page  100 

CHAPTER  XX. 

THE  FROTIDINO  AND  CARB  OF  FAMILY  STORES. 

The  Art  of  keeping  a  good  Table — Successive  Variety — Doing  eveiy  thing 
hi  the  best  Manner— Stores  and  Store-rooms — Floor — Unbolted  Flour — 
Indiao-meal — Rye — Buckwheat — Rice — Hominy — Arrow-root — Tapioca, 
etc. — Sugars — Butter — ^Lard  and  Drippings — Salt — Vinegar — Oil — ^Molas- 
ses— Hard  Soap — Starch — Indigo — Coffee — Tea — Soda — Raisins —  Cur- 
rants— Lemon  and  Orange  Peel — Spices — Sweet  Herbs — Cream-tartar — , 
Acids — Essences,  etc.— Preserves  and  Jellies — Hams — Cheese — Bread — 
Cake— Codfish— Salted  Provisions 103 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

BETTINO  TABLES,  PREFARATION  OF  FOOD. 

Table-doth— Napkins— Table  Furniture— Bread— Butter — Dishes — Soiled 


Spots — Plates  to  be  warmed  in  Winter — Certain  Dishes  served  togethc 
Strong  flavored  Meats — Boiled  Poultiy — Jelly — Fresh  Pork — Drawn  But- 
ter— Pickles — Garnishing  Dishes — ^Boiled  Ham  or  Veal — Greens  and  As- 
paragus—Hashes— Curled  Parsley-^Mode  of  setting  Table 109 

C|IAPTER  XXII. 

WASHIKO,  'iRONIKO,  AND  CLBAKSIKO.  , 

Modes  of  economizing  the  Wash— Good  Washing  depends  on  Conveniences 
— ^Articles  needed — Comtoon  mode  of  Washing — ^Fine  Clothes — ^White  Ar- 
ticles— Colored  Articles — Flanneb — Bedding — Calicoes — Waters,  etc. — 
To  cleanse  Broadcloth — To  make  Lye— Soft  Soap— Potash  Soap— To  pre- 
pare Starch — Beefs  Gall — To  do  up  Laces — ^Articles  needed  for  Ironing — 
Sprinkling,  Folding,  and  Ironing — ^I'o  whiten  Articles  and  remove  Stains 
— Mildew — Stain-mixture — Another — To  remove  Grease,  Tar,  Pitch,  Tur- 
pentine, Lamp-oil,  Oil-paint,  Ink-stains,  Stains  on  varnished  Articles — To 
clean  silk  Handkerchiefs  and  Ribbons — ^To  clean  silk  Hose  or  Gloves.  112 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

MISCELLANEODS   ADYICB  AND  RECIPES. 

How  %x>  keep  Cool  in  hot  Weather — Indelible  Ink — To  keep  Eggs — To  pre- 
vent Earthen,  Glass,  and  Iron  ware  from  breaking  easily — Cement  for 
broken  Ware — To  keep  Knives  from  Rust — ^To  cleanse  or  renovate  Furni- 
ture—To clean  Silver— To  cleanse  Wall-paper— To  purify  a  Well— To 
take  care  of  Roses  and  other  Plants— To  keep'  Grapes — Snow  for  Eggs — 


8  CONTENTS. 

Paper  to  keep  Preserves— To  cool  Batter  in  hot  Weather—To  stop  Cracks 
in  Iron — To  stop  creaking  Hinges — To  stop  creaking  Doors  and  make 
Drawers  slide  easily— To  renovate  black  Silk—To  dean  Kid  Gloves— To 
remove  grease  Spots— To  get  rid  of  Rats  and  Mic&— Odds  and  ends  for 
Housekeepers— Additional  Recipes. Page  122 


PART  SECOND. 

CHAPTER  I. 

NEEDFUL   8CIENCB   AND  TRAINIKO  FOR  THE   FAMILT  STATE. 

Women  need  both  scientific  and  practicnl  Training  even  more  than  Men^ 
Woman's  Duties  as  important  as  difficult,  and  much  greater  in  Variety — 
The  business  of  a  Housekeeper  includes  all  connected  with  the  Construc- 
tion and  Care  of  a  House,  Yard,  and  Grarden  ;  the  Selection  of  Furniture ; 
the  Ornamentation  of  a  Home ;  its  Cleansing,  Neatness,  and  Order ;  the 
Selection  and  Cooking  of  proper  Food ;  the  providing  of  family  Furniture 
and  Clothing;  the  Care  of  Health;  the  Charge  of  family  Expenses;  the 
Training  of  Servants,  and,  as  Wife  and  Mother,  the  Super\'ision  of  Nurseiy, 
the  Educator  of  Children,  and  the  religious  Minister  of  the  fumily  State — 
Evils  consequent  on  not  training  Women  for  these  Duties 127 

CHAPTER  XI. 

A   HEALTHFUL  AMD  ECONOMICAL  HOlfE. 

Advantages  of  close  Packing  of  Conveniences — Phin  of  a  model  Cottage  to 
economize  Time,  Labor,  and  Expense,  with  Estimates  of  Cost — Advan- 
tages described ' 1S3 

CHAPTER  III. 

ON   HOME   VENTILATION. 

Mode  in  which  the  Body  is  nourished  by  the  Air — Construction  of  the  Lungs 
and  Heart — Description  of  Evils  consequent  on  Neglect  of  a  proper  Sup- 
ply of  pure  Air 150 

CHAPTER  IV. 

ON  VVABMIN6  A   HOUSE. 

Principles  of  Heat,  viz..  Conduction,  Convection,  Radiation,  and  Rejection 
— Best  Mode  of  warming  a  House  illustrated^-Importance  of  Moisture  in 
the  Air 164 


CONTENTS.  9 

CHAPTER  V. 

ON  STOVES  AND  CHIMNEYS. 

The  general  Properties  of  Heat,  Conduction,  Convection,  Badiation,  Reflec- 
tion— Cooking  done  by  Radiation  the  simplest  bnt  most  wasteful  Mode : 
by  Convection  (as  in  Stoves  and  Pumaces)  the  cheapest — The  Range — 
The  model  Cooking-stove — Interior  Arrangements  and  Principles — Con. 
trivances  for  economizing  Heat,  Labor,  Time,  Fuel,  Trouble,  and  Expense 
— Its  Durability,  Simplicity,  etc — Chimneys :  if^hy  they  smoke,  and  how 
to  cure  them — Furnaces :  the  Dryness  of  their  Heat — Necessity  of  Moisture 
in  warm  Air — How  to  obtain  and  regulate  it Page  182 

CHAPTER  VL 

ECONOMIC  MODES   OF  BEAUTIFTINO  A   HOME. 

Educating  Influence  of  natural  and  artistic  Beauty — On  Curtains — Sketch  of 
a  Parlor  with  cheap  and  beautiful  Ornaments — On  the  tasteful  Combina- 
tion of  Colors 192 

CHAPTER  Vn. 

,  ON  THE   CARE   OF  HEALTH. 

Importance  of  some  Knowledge  of  the  Body  and  its  Needs — Fearful  Respon- 
sibility of  entering  upon  domestic  Duties  in  Ignorance — The  fundamental 
vital  Principle — Cell-life^ Wonders  of  the  Microscope^Cell-multiplication 
— Constant  interplay  of  Decay  and  Growth  necessary  to  Life — ^The  red 
and  white  Cells  of  the  Blood — Secreting  and  converting  Power — ^The  nerv- 
ous System — ^The  Brain  and  the  Nerves — Structural  Arrangement  and 
Functions — ^The  ganglionic  System — The  nervous  Fluid — ^Necessity  of 
properly  {^portioned  Exercbe  to  Nerves  of  Sensation  and  of  Motion — 
Evils  of  excessive  or  intfufiicient  Exercise — Equal  Development  of  the 
Whole ....199 

CHAPTER  VIU. 

DOMESTIC    EXERCISE. 

Connection  of  Muscles  and  Nerves — Aficroscopic  cellular  muscular  fibre — 
Its  Mode  of  Action — ^Dependence  on  the  Nerves  of  voluntary  and  Involun- 
taiy  Motion — How  Exercise  of  Muscles  quickens  Circulation  of  the  Blood, 
which  maintains  all  the  Processes  of  Life — ^Dependence  of  Equilibrium 
upon  proper  muscular  Activity — Importance  of  securing  Exercise  that  will 
interest  the  Mind. 208 

CHAPTER  IX. 

HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DRINILS. 

Construction  of  the  Body  in  Relation  to  Food — ^The  Construction  of  a  Kernel 
of  Wheat  as  proportioned  to  the  Body— Construction  and  Action  of  the 

1* 


10  CONTENTS. 

Stomach — ^Adyice  as  to  Food,  Drinks,  and  Stimolants — Opinions  of  Phy- 
sicians  •. Page  214 

CHAPTER  X. 

ON    CLBAHLIIIBSS. 

Constrnction  of  the  Skin—- The  secreting  Organs—Care  of  the  Skin 285 

CHAPTER  XL 
CLorraNo. 

Constrnction  of  the  Bones — ^Inflaence  of  Dress — Description  of  two  Modes 
of  Breathing,  and  the  Effects  of  Weight  and  Tightness  of  Clothing— Prop- 
er  Mode  of  sustaining  the  Clothing. 243 

CHAPTER  XII. 

KABLT  RISING. 

A  Virtae  peculiarly  American  and  democratic — In  aristocratic  Countries, 
Labor  considered  degrading— -The  Hours  of  Sunlight  generally  deroted  to 
Labor  by  the  working  Classes,  and  to  Sleep  by  the  indolent  and  wealthy- 
Sunlight  necessary  to  Health  and  Growth,  whether  of  Vegetables  or  Ani- 
mals— ^ParticuUu'ly  needful  for  the  Sick—Substitution  of  artificial  light 
and  Heat  by  Ni|^t  a  great  Waste  of  Money — Eight  hours'  Sleep  enou£^ 
— Excessiye  Sleep  debilitating — Early  Rising  necessary  to  a  well-regulated 
Family,  to  the  Amount  of  Work  to  be  done  to  the  Community,  to  Schools, 
and  to  all  Classes  in  American  Society 254 

CHAPTER  Xm. 

DOMESTIC    MANNSBB. 

Good^Manbers  the  Expression  of  Benerolenoe  in  personal  Intercourse— Se- 
rious Defects  in  Maimers  of  the  Americans— Causes  of  peculiar  Man- 
ndriB'to' be'fbund  in  American  Life — Want  of  dear  Discrimination — 
Necessity  for  Distinctions  of  Superiority  and  Subordination — ^Importance 
that  young  Mothers  should  seriously  endeayor  to  remedy  this  Defect  while 
educating  their  Children — ^Democratic  Principle  of  Equal  Rights  to  be  ap- 
plied, not  to  our  own  Intere8ts,.b(li  to  those  of  others— The  same  Court- 
esy to  be  extended  to  all  Classes — ^Necessary  Distinctions  arising  from 
mutual  Relations  to  be  observed — The  Strong  to  defer  to  the  Weak — Prec- 
edence yielded  by  Men  to  Women  in  America— Good  Manners  must  be 
cultivated  in  early  Life — ^Mutual  Relations  of  Husband  and  Wife — ^Parents 
and  Children — llie  Rearing  of  Children  to  Courtesy:— De  Tocqueville  on 
American  Manners , 260 

CHAPTER  XrV. 

THB  FRBSBRVATION  OF  GOOD  TBMPEB  IN  THB  HOU8EKEBPBB. 

Easier  for  a  Household  under  the  Guidance  of  an  equable  Tei^per  In  the 


CONTENTS.  11 

Mistress^— Dissatisfied  Looks  and  sharp  Tones  destroy  the  Comfort  of  Sys- 
tem, Neatness,  and  Economy — Considerations  to  aid  the  Housekeeper — 
Importance  and  Dignity  of  her  Duties — Difficulties  to  be  overcome—Good 
Policy  to  calculate  beforehand  upon  the  Derangement  of  well-arranged 
.  Flans — Object  of  Housekeeping,  the  Comfo]:t  and  well-being  of  the  Family 
— ^The  End  should  not  be  sacrificed  to  secure  the  Means — Possible  to  re- 
frain from  angry  Tones — Mild  Speech  most  effectire — Exemplification — 
Allowances  to  be  made  for  Servants  and  Children — Power  of  Religion  to 
impart  Dignity  and  Importance  to  the  ordinary  and  petty  Details  of  do- 
mestic Lifb. , Page  274 

CHAPTER  XV.     . 

HABITS  or   8T8TKM  AND  OBDEB. 

Bdative  Importance  and  Difficulty  of  the  Duties  a  Woman  is  called  to  per- 
form— Her  Duties  not  trivial — ^A  Habit  of  System  and  Order  necessary — 
Right  Apportionment  of  Time — General  Principles — Christianity  to  be  the 
Foondation — ^Intellectual  and  social  Interests  to  be  preferred  to  Gratifica- 
tion of  Taste  or  Appetite— Neglect  of  Health  a  Sin  in  the  Sight  of  God— 
Regular  Season  of  Rest  appointed  by  the  Creator— Divisions  of  Time — 
Systematic  Arrangement  of  house  Articles  and  other  Conveniences — Reg- 
nlar  Employment  for  each  Member  of  a  Family — Children — Family  Work 
— Forming  Habits  of  System — Early  Rising  a  very  great  Aid — ^Due  Ap- 

-  portionment  of  Time  to  the  several  Duties... 280 

CHAPTER  XVI. 
hb'alth  op  mind. 

Intimate  Connection  between  the  Body  and  Mind — Brain  excited  by  im* 
proper  Stimulants  taken  into  the  Stomach — Mental  Facultiesthen  affiscted 
— Causes  of  mental  Disease — ^Want  of  oxygenised  Blood — ^Fresh  Air  ab- 
solutely necessary^— Excessive  Exercise  of  the  Intellect  or  Feelings— Such 
Attention  to  ReUgion  as  prevents  the  Performance  of  other  Duties  wrong 
— Unusual  Precocity  in  Children  usually  the  Result  of  a  diseased  Brain — 
Idiocy  often  the  Result,  or  the  precocious  Child  sinks  below  the  Average  of 
Mankind — ^Thi»  Evil  yet  prevalent  in  Colleges  and  other  Seminaries-— A 
medical  Man  necessaiy  in  every  Seminary — Some  Pupils  always  needing 
Restraint  in  regard  to  Study — A  third  Cause  of  mentai  Disease,  the  Want 
of  appropriate  Exercise  of  the  various  Facidties  of  the  Mind — Extract  from 
Dr.  CombeT-Benefidal  Results  of  active  inteUectual  Employments — Indi- 
cations of  a  diseased  Mind 29d 

CHAPTER  XVn. 

CABB    OF    TBB    AGBD. 

Preservation  of  the  Aged,  designed  to  give  Opportunity  for  Self-denial  and 
loving  Care — ^Patience^  Sympathy,  and  Labor  for  them  to  be  regarded  as 
Privileges  in  a  Family— The  Young  should  respect  and  minister  unto  the 
Aged— ^Treating  them  as  valued  Members  of  the.  Family — Engaging  them 


12  .  CONTENTS. 

iu  domestic  Games  and  Sports — Reading  aloud — Conrteous  Attention  to 
their  Opinions — Assistance  in  retarding  Decay  of  Facalties  by  helping 
them  to  Exercise— Keeping  np  Interest  of  the  Infirm  in  domestic  Affairs 
— Great  Care  to  preserve  animal  Heat — Ingratitade  to  the  Aged :  its  base- 
ness—Chinese  Regard  for  old  Age Page  801 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 

CARE   OF  DOMESTIC  AKISiALS. 

Interesting  Association  of  Animals  with  Man,  from  Childhood  to  Age — ^Do- 
mestic Animals  apt  to  catch  the  Spirit  of  their  Masters — Important  Neces- 
sities— Good  Feeding — Shelter — Cleanliness — Destmction  of  parasitic  Ver- 
min— Salt  and  Water — ^Light — Exercise — Rale  for  Breeding — Care  of 
Horses :  Feeding,  Grooming,  special  Treatment— Cows :  Stabling,  Feed, 
Calving,  Milking,  Tethering — Swine:  naturally  cleanly.  Breeding,  fresh 
Water,  Charcoal,  Feeding — Sheep:  winter  Treatment — Diet — Sorting — 
Use  of  Sheep  in  clearing  Land — Pastnre — Hedges  and  Fences — Poultry-^ 
Turkeys — Geese — Ducks — Fowls — Dairy  Work  generally — Bees— Care  of 
domestic  Animals,  Occupation  for  Women 805 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

CAREOFTHESICK. 

Prominence  given  to  Care  and  Care  of  the  Sick  by  our  Saviour — "Evaj 
Woman  should  know  what  to  do  in  the  Case  of  I}lness — Simple  Remedies 
best — Fasting  and  Perspiration — Evils  of  Constipation — Modes  of  reliev- 
ing it — Remedies  for  Colds — Unwise  to  tempt  the  Appetite  of  the  Sick — 
Suggestion  for  the  Sick-room — Ventilation— Needful  Articles — The  Room, 
Bed,  and  Person  of  the  Patient  to  be  kept  neat — Care  to  preserve  animal 
Warmth — ^3*he  Sick,  the  Delicate,  the  Aged — Food  always  to  be  carefully 
prepared  and  neatly  served-^Little  Modes  of  Refreshment— Implicit  Obe- 
dience to  the  Physician — Care  in  purchasing  Medicines — Exhibition  of 
Cheerfalness,  Gentleness,  and  Sympathy — Knowledge  and  Experience,  of 
Mind— Lack  of  competent  Nurses — Failings  of  Nurses — Sensitiveness  of 
the  Sick — ''Sisters  of  Charity,"  the  Reason  why  they  are  such  excellent 
Nurses— Illness  in  the  Family  a  providential  Opportunity  of  training  Chil- 
dren to  Love  and  Usefulness 813 

CHAPTER  XX. 

FISE8    AND    LIGHTS. 

Management  of  Lamps  and  Candles. 824 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

CABE    OF    BaOMS. 

MisceUaneons  Advice  as  to  Furniture,  setting  Tables,  Packing,  and  Stowing — 
Rules  for  Washing,  Carving,  and  Helping — Care  of  Chambers,  Eitchen, 
and  Cellar. , 880 


CONTENTS.  18 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

CARE  OF  YARDS  AND  GARDENS.  ' 

Preparation  of  Soil — BCaking  a  Hot-bed— Re-potting— Laying  out  Yards  and 
Gardens — Care  of  house  Plants — ^Propagation  of  Plants — Ingrafting — Cul- 
tivation of  Froit  bj  Women Page  849 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

BEWINO,  CUTTINO,  AND  FITTINO. 

How  to  instmct  in  these  Arts  in  common  Schools..; 861 

CHAFIER  XXIV. 

ACCIDENTS   AND  ANTIDOTES. 

Treatment  of  the  Drowned — Antidotes  for  Poisons — Conduct  in  lliander- 
storms  and  Fires 866 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

RIGHT  USB'  OF  TIME  AND  PROPERTY. 

Meaning  of  the  Word  Right — How  do  Men  decide  what  is  wise,  best,  and 
right? — ^What  is  an  intnitiTO  Principle  in  all  rational  Minds — Who  ore 
called  righteous  and  virtuous  Men  in  all  Nations  and  Ages — Effect  of  Dan- 
ger in  deciding  what  is  right — ^The  Law  of  Rectitude  or  Right — Distinc- 
tion between  emotive  Love  and  volantarj  Love  illustrated  bj  Christ's 
Teachings  and  Ekarople— Explanation  of ' '  Faith, "  * '  Love, **  and  '*  Repent- 
ance," as  taught  bj  Jesus  Christ — The  proportion  of  Time  and  Property 
required  of  the  Jews — Illustrations  of  Christian  Benevolence — Self-deny- 
ing Benevolence  happifying,  and  can  be  cultivated — Consideration  of  vari- 
ous Modes  of  Charity 870 

CHAPTER  XXVL 

CARE   OF    INFANTS. 

Remarks  of  Herbert  Spencer  and  Dr.  Combe — Advice  of  m'edical  Writers — 
Best  Remedy  for  Fevers 890 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

MANAGEMENT  OF   YOUNG  CHILDREN. 

Physical  Care— Intellectual  Training— On  cultivating  Benevolence  in  Chil- 
dren— Sympathy  with  Little  Ones  important — Gentle  tones  best 401 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

FAMILY  REUGIOUS  TRAINING. 

Woman*s  Responsibility  as  chief  Educator  of  the  Family — Tho  meaning  of 


14  CONTENTS. 

the  Word  Right— Tht  End,  or  Object,  for  which  all  Things  are  made,  and 
how  learned — Difficalties  in  interpreting  Revelation — Distinctive  principle 
of  Prote8tantism-rZ>ajiper  in  the  future  Life,  and  different  Views— Influ- 
ence  of  Belief  in  Danger  illnstrated — Bule  of  Interpreution  used  in  com- 
mon life,  and  to  be  applied  to  the  Bible — ^What  we  must  do  to  be  saved — 
Theories  differ,  but  an  agreement  in  facts  revealed — How  a  Woman  must 
decide  for  herself  and  for  those  she  controls. Piige  414 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

GABK    OF    8BBVANT8. 

Distinction  between  emotional  and  voluntary  Love  to  others — ^Tbis  the  Prin- 
ciple to  guide  in  the  Care  of  Servants — ^Ladies  who  do  their  own  Work — 
Intelligence  saves  Labor — ^Benefits  of  domestic  Labo]^— The  Training  of 
Servants  a  prime  Duty  of  American  Housekeepers — Af  odes  of  avoiding  Dif- 
ficulties— ^Rewards  of  benevolent  Care  here  and  in  the  Life  to  come. .  424 

CHAPTER  XXX. 

DOMESTIC  AMUSEJCEMTS  AND  SOCIAL  DITTIES. 

The  only  proper  Object  of  Amusement — ^Various  kinds  that  are  safe,  and 
others  that  are  wrong,  either  in  Quality  or  Excess — Hospitality 440 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

LAWS    OF    HEALTH. 

The  Laws  of  Health  are  Laws  of  €rod,  and.  should  be  taught  to  all  Children 

— ^Laws  of  Health  for  the  Bones,  Muscles,  Lungs,  Digestive  Organs,  Skin, 

.    Brain  and  Nerves,  Teeth,  Eyes,  Hair,  etc ^ 454 

CHAPTER  XXXIL 

GOMFOBT  FOB  A  DISCOUBAQBD  HOUSEKBEPBB. 

Some  of  the  great  Trials  of  American  Housekeepers  enumerated — How  to 
meet  them  with  Comfort  and  Success 459 

NOTE  A 466 

INDEX 473 


THE 


HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHKEEPER. 


PART  FIRST. 


CHAPTER  I. 

ADDRESS  OF  THE  AUTHOR  TO   AMERICAN   ROUSSKEEPERa 

My  dear  Friends, — ^This  volume  embraces,  in  a  concise 
form,  many  valuable  portions  of  my  other  works  on  Domes- 
tic Economy,  both  those  published  by  Harper  and  Brothers 
and  those  published  by  J.  B.  Ford  and  Co.,  together  with 
other  new  and  interesting  matter.  It  is  designed  to  be  a 
complete  encyclopssdia  of  all  that  i-clates  to  a  woman's  da- 
ties  as  housekeeper,  wife,  mother,  and  nui-se. 

The  First  Part  embraces  a  large  variety  of  recipes  for  food 
that  is  both  healthful  and  economical,  put  in  dear,  concise 
language,  with  many  methods  for  saving  labor,  time,  and 
money,  not  found  in  any  other  works  of  the  kind.  It  also, 
gives  more  specific  directions  as  to  seasonings  2LXiA  flavors 
than  the  common  one  of*  Season  to  the  Taste,''  which  leaves 
all  to  the  judgment  of  the  careless  or  ignorant.  ^  The  recipes 
have  been  tested  by  some  of  the  best  housekeepers,  and  all 
relating  to  health  has  been  approved  by  distinguished  physi- 
cians of  all  schools.  ^ 

The  Second  Part  contains  interesting  information  as  to  the 
construction  of  the  body,  in  a  concise  form,  omitting  all  de- 
tails, except  such  as  have  an  immediate  connection  with  a 
housekeeper's  practical  duties.  These  are  so  simplified  and 
illustrated,  that  by  aid  of  this,  both  servants  and  children  can 
be  made  so  to  understand  the  reasons  for  the  laws  of  health, 


16  THE  HOUSEKEEPER   AND   HEALTHKEEPER. 


V 


as  to  render  that  willing  and  intelligent  obedience  which 
can  \)e  gained  in  no  other  way. 

It  is  my  most  earnest  desire  to  save  you  and  your  house- 
hold from  the  sad  consequences  I  have  suffered  from  igno- 
rance of  the  latoa  of  healthy  especially  those  which  women 
peculiarly  need  to  understand  and  obey. 

God  made  woman  to  do  the  work  of  the  family,  and  to 
train  those  under  her  care  to  the  same  labor.  And  her  body 
is  so  formed  that  family  labor  and  care  tend  not  only  to  good 
health,  but  to  the  highest  culture  of  mind.  Read  all  that  is 
included  in  our  ''  profession,''  as  detailed  in  the  Second  Part 
of  this  work,  and  see  how  much  there  is  to  cultivate  every 
mental  faculty,  as  well  as  our  higher  moral  powei^s.  Domes- 
tic labor  with  the  muscles  of  the  arms  and  trunk,  wnth  interr 
vals  of  sedentary  work,>re  exactly  what  keep  all  the  func- 
tions of  the  body  in  perfect  order,  especially  those  which,  at 
the  present  day,  are  most  out  of  order  in  our  sex.  And  so 
the  women  of  a  former  generation,  while  they  read  and 
studied  books  far  less  than  women  of  the  present  time,  were 
better  developed  both  in  mind  and  body. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  be  trained  by  poverty  and  good 
mothers  and  aunts  to  do  every  kind  of  domestic  labor,  and 
so,  until  one-and-twenty,  I  was  in  full  enjoyment  of  health 
and  happiness.  Then  I  gave  up  all  domestic  employments 
for  study  and  teaching,  and  in  ten  years  I  ruined  my  health, 
while  my  younger  sistera  and  fiiends  suffered  in  the  same 
mistaken  bourse.  And  my  experience  has  been  repeated  all 
over  the  land,  until  there  is  such  decay  of  female  constitu- 
tions and  health,  as  -alarms,  and  justly  alarms,  every  well-in- 
formed pei-son. 

After  twenty  yeara  of  invalidism,  I  have  been  restored  to 
perfect  heS^lth  of  body  and  mind,  and  wholly  by  a  strict  obe- 
dience to  the  laws  of  health  and  happiness^  which  I  i^ow  com- 
mend to  your  especial  attention,  with  the  hope  and  prayer 
that  by  obedience  to  them  you  may  save  yourselves  and 
boiiseholds  from  unspeakable  future  miseries. 

I  wish  I  could  give  you  all  the  evidence  that  I  have  gain- 
ed to  prove  that  woman's  work  in  the  household  might  be  so 
conducted  as  to  be  agreeable,  tasteful,  and  promotive  of  both 


AUTHOb'b   ADDEIESS.  ^  17 

grace  and  beauty  of  pereon.  But  this  never  can  be  general- 
ly credited  till  women  of  high  culture  set  the  example  of 
ti-aiuing  their  sons  and  daughters,  instead  of  hired  servants 
alone,  to  be  their  domestic  helpers. 

According  to  the  present  tendency  of  wealth  and  culture, 
it  is  women  of  moderate  or  humble  means  who  will  train 
their  own  children  to  health  and  happiness,  and  rear  prosper- 
ous families.  Meantime,  the  rich  women  will  have  large 
houses,  many  servants,  poor  health,  and  little  domestic  com- 
fort, while  they  tr2Lin  the  children  of  foreigner  to  do  family 
work,  and  in  a  way  that  will  satisfy  neither  mistress  nor 
servant ;  for  a  woman  who  does  not  work  heraelf  is  rarely 
able  to  properly  teach  others.  Choose  wisely,  then,  O  youth- 
ful mother  and  housekeeper !  train  yourself  to  wholesome 
labor  and  intelligent  direction,  and  be  prepared  to  educate 
a  cheerful  and  healthful  flock  of  your  own  children. 

Your  friend  and  well-wisher, 

Cathabine  E.  Beechbb. 

New  York,  April  2,  1873. 


18       THE  HOUSEKEEPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 


CHAPTER  n. 

MABKETINO  AND  THE  CABB  OF  MEATS. 

EvEBT  young  womau,  at  some  period  of  her  life,  may  need 
the  instructions  of  this  chapter.  Thousands  will  have  the 
immediate  care  of  buying  meats  for  the  family ;  and  even 
those  who  are  not  themselves  obliged  to  go  to  market, 
should  have  the  knowledge  which  will  enable  them  to  direct 
their  servants  what  and  how  to  buy,  and  to  judge  whether 
thd  household,  under  their  management,  is  properly  served 
or  not.  Nothing  so  thoroughly  insures  the  intelligent  obe- 
dience of  orders,  as  evidence  that  the  pei*sou  ordering  knows 
exactly  what  is  wanted. 

The  directions  given  in  this  and  the  ensuing  chapters  on 
meats,  were  carefully  written,  firat  in  Cincinnati,  with  the 
counsel  and  advice  of  business  men  practically  engaged  in 
such  matters.  They  have  been  recently  rewritten  in  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  afler  consultation  with  intelligent  butchers  and 
grocers. 

MARKETING. 
BEEF. 

The  animal,  when  slaughtered,  should  be  bled  very  thor- 
oughly. The  care  taken  by  the  Jews  in  this  and  other  points 
draws  custom  from  other  sects  to  their  markets.  The  skin 
is  tanned  for  leather,  and  the  fat  is  used  for  candles  and 
other  purposes.  The  tail  is  used  for  soups,  and  the  liver, 
heart,  and  tripe  are  also  used  for  cooking.  The  body  is  split 
into  two  parts,  through  the  b&ck-bone,  and  each,  half  is  di- 
vided as  marked  in  the  drawing  on  following  page.  There 
are  diverse  modes  of  cutting  and  naming  the  parts, butchers 
in  New  England,  in  New  York,  in  the  South,  and  in  the 
West, all  making  some  slight  differences;  but  the  following 
is  the  most  common  method. 


HABEXmiQ  AND  CAKB  OF.  HEATB. 


1.  Tbthtad:  freqaeoUy  DKd  for  mincs-piea ;  nometimei  it  is  Ined  oat  for 
oS,  and  then  tbe  boDM  are  nuil  for  fertiliiers.  The  horns  are  nsed  to  nuk« 
lialtonii  nrtd  comlM,  and  Tariooi  other  IhingB.  2.  The  ntct;  lued  for  lonps 
and  newe.  3.  Tlie  chuek-rib,  or  ihviUdtr,  having  foar  rib).  It  is  nicd  for 
coming.  Mews,  and  soup,  and  soma  sav  tbe  best  stealu  are  from  ihis  piece, 
i.  "ntjrimt  of  tht  t^oulder,  or  (be  thouidtr-clod,  which  is  sometimeii  called 
Xhtiriiket.  6.  The  fioci  o/* (As  thotddtt;  usedfbr  coming,  soups,  and itews.. 
G.  Tbe  fert-^td*,  or  Ug ;  nsed  for  soupii.  T,  T,  The  ptatt-yieca ;  the  trtmx 
one  is  caQad  tbe  brisket,  (as  is  also  4,)  and  is  used  for  coming,  aonpa,  and 
stem.  Tho  back  pbue-piece  is  called  the  fltaik,  and  is  divided  into  the  thick 
Jlmt,  or  upper  ttrlein,  and  the  Imotr  flank.  These  are  for  roasting  and 
coming.  S.  The  slaitding  ribi,  divided  into  JinI,  $ectmd,  and  third  cars ; 
mied  for  masting.  Tbe  second  cnt  is  the  best  of  tbe  three.  9.  The  nridin, 
which  is  tbe  best  [pa«ting  piece.  10.  The  tirloin  iltaJt  and  the  parter-Aoum 
ittak;  used  (br  broiling.  11.  The  ntmp,  or  aiteKJxnu;  nsed  for  soup  or 
coming,  or  to  cook  i  la  mode.  12.  Tfae  ronid,  or  hattoek ;  used  for  coming, 
or  for  it  b  mode;  also  for  dried  beef.     18.  The  hixk,  or  had  thtuk;  nsed 

Jq  selecting  Se^f,  choose  that  which  has  a  loose  prdin, 
easily  yielding  to  pressare,  of  a  clear  red,  with  whitish  fat. 
If  tbe  lean  is  parplish,  and  the  fat  yellow,  it  is  poor  heef. 
Beef  long  kept  tarns  a  darker  color  than  fresh  killed.  Stall- 
fed  beef  has  a  lighter  color  than  grass-fed. 

Oz  beef  is  the  best,  and  next,  that  of  a  heifer. 

Id  cold  weather,  it  is  economical  to  buy  a  hind  <]tiarter; 
have  it  cat  ap,  and  what  is  not  wanted  immediately,  pack 
with  snow  in  a  barrel.  All  meats  grow  tender  by  keeping. 
Do  not  let  meats  freeze ;  if  they  do,  thaw  them  in  cold  water, 
and  do  not  cook  them  tilt  fully  thawed.  A  piece  weighing 
.ten  pounds  requires  ten  or  twelve  boars  to  thaw. 


20 


THS   HOUfiEKEEPEB  AND  HBALTHKEEPEB. 


PIg.«. 


VEAIm 

The  calf  should  not  bo  slaughtered  until  it  is  six  weeks 
old.  Spring  is  the  best  time  for  veal.  It  is  divided  as  marked 
in  the  drawing. 

1.  The  head,  sold  with  the  plucky  which  includes  the  hearty  livery  and 
sweet-breads,  2.  The  rack^  inclading  the  neck ;  used  for  stews,  pot-pies,  and 
broths ;  also  for  chops  and  roasting.  8.  The  shoulder.  This,  and  also  half 
the  rack  and  ribs  of  the  fore-quarter,  are  sometimes  roasted,  and  sometimes 
used  for  stews,  broths,  and  cudets.  4.  The '/ore-shank,  or  knuckle;  used  for 
broths.  5.  The  breast ;  used  for  stews  and  soups ;  also  to  stuff  and  bake. 
G.  The  loin ;  used  for  roasting.  7.  The  fillet,  or  leg,  including  the  hind 
flank ;  used  for  cutlets,  or  to  stuff  and  boil,  or  to  stuff  and  roast,  or  bake. 
8.  The  hind  ehank,  or  hock,  or  knuckle  ;  used  for  soups.  The  feet  are  used 
for  jdly. 

In  selecting  Vealy  take  that  which  is  firm  and  dry,  and  the 
joints  stiff,  having  the  lean  a  delicate  i*ed,the*kidne7  covered 
with  fat,  and  the  fat  very  white.  If  yon  buy  the  head,  see 
that  the  eyes  are  plump  and  lively,  and  not  dull  and  sunk 
in  the  head.  If  you  buy  the  legs,  get  those  which  are  not 
skinned,  as  the  skin  is  good  for  jelly  or  soup. 


F:g.  c. 


MUTTON. 
1.  The  shov^der;  for  boiling  or  coming.    2,  2.  The  neck  and  roc 


BiAB&Eni{a   AND   CARS   OF  MEATS.  21 

boiliog  or  corning.  3.  The  loin  ;  is  roasted,  or  broiJed  as  chops.  4.  The 
leg;  is  boiled,  or  broiled,  or  staffed  and  roasted.  Many  salt  and  smoke  the 
leg,  and  call  it  smoked  venison.     5.  The  breast ;  for  boiling  or  coming. 

In  choosing  Mutton^  take  that  which  is  bright  red  aod 
close-grained,  with  firm  and  white  fat.  The  meat  should  feel 
tender  and  springy  on  pressure.  Notice  the  vein  on  the 
neck  of  the  fore-quarter,  which  should  be  a  fine  blue. 

a 

Fig.  4. 


FORK. 

1.  The  Ug^  or  ham  ;  used  for  smoking.     2.  The  kind  loin,     8.  The  for^ 
loin.     4.  The  ^ctre-rib ;  for  roasting ;  sometimes  including  all  the  ribs.     5. 
The  hand^  or  ehoulder ;  sometimes  smoked,  and  sometimes  corned  and  boiled. 
6.  The  6e//jf,  or  spring^  for  corning  t>r  salting  down.     The  feet  are  used  for. 
jelly,  head-cheese,  and  sonse. 

In  selecting  PorJc^  if  young,  the  lean  can  easily  be  broken, 
when  pinched,  And  the  skin  can  be  indented  by  nipping  with 
the  fingers.  The  fat  also  will  be  white  and  soft.  Thin  rind 
is  best.  * 

In  selecting  HamSy  run  a  knife  along  the  bone,  and  if  it 
comes  out  clean,  the  ham  is  good ;  but  if  it  comes  out  smear- 
ed, it  is  spoiled.  Good  bacon  has  white  fat,  and  the  lean  ad- 
heres closely  to  the  bone.  If  the  bacon  has  yellow  streaks, 
it  is  rusty,  and  not  fit  to  nse. 


In  selecting  Poultry y  choose  those  that  are  full  grown,  but 
not  old.  When  young  and  fresh-killed,  the  skin  is  thin  and 
tender,  the  joints  not  very  stiff,  and  the  eyes  full  and  bright. 
The  breast-bone  shows  the  age,  as  it  easily  yields  to  press- 
ire  if  young,  and  is  tough  when  old.     Jf  young,  you  can  with 

pin  easily  tear  the  skin.    A  goose,  when  old,  has  I'ed  and 


22  THS   tlOUSBKEBt»EB   AND  HEALTtlKSBPEB. 

hairy  legfil ;  but  when  young,  they  are  yellow,  and  have  few 
hairs.  The  pin-feathers  are  the  roots  of  feathers,  which  break 
off  and  remain  in  the  skin,  and  always  indicate  a  young  bird. 
When  very  neatly  dressed,  they  are  pulled  out. 

Poultry  and  birds  ought  to  be  killed  by  having  the  head 
cut  off,  and  then  hung  up  by  the  legs  to  bleed  freely.  This 
iliakes  the  flesh  white  and  more  healthful. 


In  selecting  Fish^  take  those  that  are  firm  and  thick,  hav- 
ing stiff  fins  and  bright  scales,  the  gills  bright  red,  and  the 
eyes  full  and  prominent.  When  fish  are  long  out  of  water, 
they  grow  ^ofl,  the  fins  bend  easily,  the  scales  are  dim,  the 
gills  grow  dark,  and  the  eyes  sink  and  shrink  away.  Be  sure 
and  have  them  dressed  immediately;  sprinkle  them  with  salt, 
and  use  them,  if  possible,  the  same  day.  In  warm  weather, 
put  them  in  ice,  or  corning,  for  the  .next  day. 
.  Shell-fish  can  be  decided  upon  only  by  the  smell.  Lob- 
stei-s  are  not  good  unless  alive,  or  else  boiled  before  offered 
for  sale.  They  are  black  when  alive,  and  red  when  boiled. 
When  to  be  boiled,  they  are  to  be  put  alive  into  boiling 
water,  which  is  the  quickest  and  least  cruel  way  to  end  their 
life. 

THE  CARE  OF  MEATS. 

In  hot  weather,  if  there  is  no  refrigerator,  then  wipe  meat 
dry,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  hang  in  the  cel- 
lar. Or,  still  better,  wrap  it,  thus  prepared,  in  a  dry  cloth, 
and  cover  it  with  charcoal  or  with  wood-ashes.  Mutton, 
wrapped  in  a  cloth  wet  with  vinegar,  and  laid  on  the  ground 
of  a  dry  cellar,  keeps  well  and  improves  in  tenderness. 

Hang  meat  a  day  or  two  after  it  is  killed  before  corning  it. 

In  winter,  meat  i3  kept  finely  if  well  packed  in  snow,  with- 
out salting ;  but  sonie  say  it  lessens  the  sweetness.  . 

Frozen  meat  must  be  thawed  in  cold  water,  and  not  cook- 
ed till  entirely  thawed. 

Beef  and  mutton  are  improved  by  keeping  as  long  as  they 
remain  sweet.  If  meat  begins  to  taint,  wash  it,  and  rub  it 
with  powdered  charcoal,  which  oflen  removes  the.  taint* 


MARKBTING   AND  CAB£   OP  MfiATS.  23 

Sometimes  rubbiog  with  salt  will  cure  it     Soda  water  is 
good  also. 

Take  all  the  kernels  out  that  you  will  find  in  the  round 
and  thick  end  of  the  flank  of  beef,  and  in  the  fat,  and  fill  the 
holes  with  salt.    This  will  preserve  it  longer. 

Salt  your  meat,  in  summer,  as  soon  as  you  receive  it 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  salt  rubbed  into  twenty-five  pounds 
of  beef,  will  com  it  so,  as  to  last  several  days  in  ordinary 
warm  weather ;  or  put  it  in  strong  brine. 

In  most  books  of  recipes  there  are  several  different  ones  for 
coming,  for  curing  pork  hams,'and  for  other  uses,  while  an  in- 
experienced person  is  at  a  loss  to  know  which  is  best.  The 
recipes  here  given  are  decided  to  be  tke  &^^,  after  an  exami- 
nation of  quite  a  variety,  by  the  writer,  who  has  resided  where 
they  were  used;  and  she  knows  that  the  very  best  results 
are  secured  by  these  directions.  These  also  are  pronounced 
the  best  by  business  men  of  large  experience. 

'  To  Sftlt  down  Beef  to  keep  the^  Year  roiind.~Ooe  hundred  poaDds  of 
beef ;  fbar  quarts  of  rock-salt,  pounded  fine ;  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  pound- 
ed fine ;  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Mix  welL  Put  a  layer  of  meat  on 
the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  with  a  thin  layer  of  this  mixture  nnder  it.  Pack 
the  meat  in  layers,  and  between  each  put  equal  proportions  of  this  mixture, 
allowing  a  little  more  to  the  top  layers.  Then  pour  in  brine  till  the  barrel  is 
full. 

To  elaanie  Calf's  Head  and  Feet — ^Wash  clean,  and  sprinkle  pounded  res- 
in over  the  hair ;  dip  in  boiling  water  and  take  out  immediatdy,  and  then 
scrape  them  dean ;  then  soak  them  in  water  for  four  days,  changing  the 
water  eyery  day. 

To  prepare  Bennet — Take  the  stomach  of  a  new-killed  calf,  and  do  not 
wash  it,  as  it  weakens  the  gastric  juice.  Hang  it  in  a  cool  and  dry  place 
five  dajrs  or  so ;  then  turn  the  inside  out,  and  slip  ofiT  the  curds  with  the 
hand.  Then  fill  it  with  salt,  with  a  little  saltpetre  mixed  in,  and  lay  it  in  a 
stone  pot,  pouring  on  a  tea-spoonful  of  rinegar,  and  sprinkling  on  a  handful 
of  salL  Corer  it  closely,  and  keep  for  use.  After  six  weeks,  take  a  piece 
foor  inehes  square  and  put  it  in  a  bottle  with  five  gills  of  cold  water  and  two- 
gills  of  roee  brandy ;  stop  it  close,  and  shake  it  when  you  use  iL  A  tahle- 
spoonfbl  is  enough  for  a  quart  of  milk. 

Tto  Salt  down  Fish. — Scale,  cut  ofiT  the  heads,  open  down  the  back,  and  re- 
moTe  most  of  the  spine,  to  haye  them  keep  better.    Lay  them  in  salt  water 


24  TfikB   HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HSALTHKSEPSB. 

two  hours,  to  extract  blood.  Sprinkle  with  fine  salt,  and  let  them  lie  over 
night  Then  mix  one  peck  of  coarse  and  fine  salt,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre, 
(or  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  and  half  an  ounce  of  saleratus,)  and  one  pound 
of  sugar.  Then  pack  in  a  firkin.  Begin  with  a  layer  of  salt,  then  a  layer 
of  fish,  skin  downward.  A  peck  of  salt  will  answer  for  twenty-firo  shad, 
and  other  fish  in  proportion. 

As  in  most  country  families,  when  meat  is  salted  for  the 
year's  use,  pork  is  the  meat  most  generally  and  most  largely 
relied  upon,  considerable  space  is  devoted  to  its  proper  prep- 
aration. Special  attention  is  given  to  various  modes  of  cur- 
ing and  preserving  it. 

To  try  ont  Lard. — Take  what  is  called  the  leaves^  and  take  off  all  the  skin, 
cut  it  into  pieces  an  inch  square,  put  it  into  a  dean  pot  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
try  it  till  the  scraps  look  a  reddish- brown ;  take  great  care  not  to  let  it  bum, 
which  would  spoil  the  whole.  Then  strain  it  through  a  strong  doth,  into  a 
stone  pot,  and  set  it  away  for  use. 

Take  the  fat  to  which  the  smaller  intestines  are  attached,  (not  the  large 
ones,)  and  the  fiabby  pieces  of  pork  not  fit  for  salting,  try  these  in  the  same 
way,  and  set  the  fat  thus  obtained'  where  it  will  freeze,  and  by  spring  the 
strong  taste  will  be  gone,  and  then  it  can  be  used  for  frying.  A  tea-cup  of 
water  prevents  bnraing  while  trying. 

Corn-fed  pork  is  best.  Pork  made  by  still-house  slops  is 
almost  poisonous,  and  hogs  that  live  on  ofiTal  never  furnish 
healthful  food.  If  hogs  are  properly  fed,  the  pork  is  not  iin- 
healthful. 

Pork  with  kernels  in  it  is  measly,  and  is  unwholesome. 

A  thick  skin  shows  that  the  pork  is  old,  and  that  it  re^ 
quires  more  time  to  boil.  If  bought  pork  is  very  salt,  soak 
it  some  hours.    Do  not  let  pork  freeze,  if  you  intend  to  salt  it. 

The  gentleman  who  uses  the  following  recipe  for, curing 
pork  hams,  says  it  has  these  advantages  over  all  othei*s  he 
has  tried  or  heard  of,  namely,  the  hams  thus  cured  are  sweet- 
er than  by  any  other  method ;  they  are  more  solid  and  ten- 
derj  and  are  cured  in  less  than  half  the  time.  Moreover,  they 
do  not  attract  flies  so  much  as  other  methods : 

Eseipe  for  Molasses-CTirod  Hams. ^Moisten  every  part  of  the  ham  with 
molasses,  and  then  for  every  hundred  pounds  use  one  quart  of  fine  salt,  and 
four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  rubbing  them  in  very  thoroughly  at  every  4>oint. 
Put  the  hams  thus  prepared  in  a  tight  cask  for  four  days.     Then  mb  again 


MASKSllNG  AND  CABB.  OF  MXATK  25 

0 

with  moUmes  and  one  qmurt  of  salt,  and  return  the  hams  to  the  cask  for  four 
days.  Bepeat  this  the  third  and  the  fonrth  time,  and  then  smoke  the  hams. 
This  process  takes  only  sixteen  days,  while  other  methods  require  fiye  or  six 
weeks. 

The  following  is  the  best  I'ecipe  for  the  ordinary  mode  of 
curing  hams ;  and  the  brine  or  pickle  thus  prepared  is  equal- 
ly good  for  coming  and  all  other  purposes  for  which  brine  is 
used.  Sonie  persons  use  saleratus  instead  of  the  saltpetre, 
and  others  use  half  and  half  of  each,  and  say  it  is  an  improve- 
ment : 

Briae  or  Piekle  for  eomiag  Hams,  Beef;  Fork,  and  Hong  BeeL— Four  gal- 
lons of  water ;  two  poonds  of  rock-salt,  and  a  little  more  of  common  salt ;  two 
onnces  of  saltpetre ;  one  qoart  of  molasses.  Mix,  bat  do  not  boiL  Pat  the 
hams  in  a  barrel  and  poar  this  over  them,  and  keep  them  covered  with  it  for 
six  weeks.    If  more  brine  is  needed,  make  it  in  the  same  proportions. 

Briae  for  Be«^  Pork,  Tttigneiy  and  Hnag  Beef.— Four  gallons  of.  water; 
one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sogar ;  one  oance  of  saltpetre ;  one  ounce  of  salfrr 
ratos.  Add  salt ;  and  if  it  Is  for.  use  only  a  month  or  two,  use  six  pounds  of 
salt;  if  for  an  the  year,  use  m'lM  pounds.  In  hot  weather,  rub  the. meat  with 
salt  before  putting  it  in,  and  let  it  lie  for  three  hours,  to  extract  the  bk)od. 
When  tongues  and  hung  beef  are  taken  out,  wash  the  pieces,  and,  when 

oked,  pot  tfiem  in  paper  bags,  and  hang  in  a  dry  place. 


Briae  by  Xeasure,  easily  made«<-^One  gallon  of  cold  water;  one  quart  of 
rock-salt;  and  two  of  blown  salt;  one  heaping  table-spoonful  of  saltpetre,  (or 
half  as  much  of  saleratus,  with  half  a  taUe-spoonful  of  saltpetre ;)  six  heaping 
table-spoonfuls  of  brown  sugar.  Mix,  but  not  boiL  Keep  it  as  long  as  salt 
remains  undissolTed  at  bottouL  When  scum  rises,  add  more  salt,  sugar,  salt- 
petre, and  soda. 

To  Salt  down  Pork. — ^Allow  a  peck  of  salt  for  nx^^|)onnds.  Coyer  the 
bottom  of  the  barrel  with  salt  an  inch  deep.  Fut  dfVn  one  layer  of  pork, 
and  cover  that  with  salt  half  an  inch  thick..  Cont^^  thus  till  the  barrel  is 
fiilL  Then  pour  in  as  much  strong  brine  as  ike  barrel  will  receive.  Keep 
poarse.salt  between  all  pieces,  so  that  the  brine  can  circulate.  When  a  white 
scum  or  Uoody-looking  matter  rises  on  the  top,  s<^d  the  brine  and  add  more 
salL  Leave  out  bloody  and  lean  pieces  for  sausages..  Pack  as  tight  as  pos- 
sible, the  rind  next  the  barrel;  and  let  it  be  alwojfM  kq>t  mnder  the  brine. 
Some  use  a  stone  for  this  purpose.  In  salting  down  a  new  supply,  take  the 
old  brine,  boil  it  down  and  remove  all  the  scum,  and  then  useJt  to  pour  over 
the  pork.    The  pork  may  be  used  in  six  weeks  after  salting.   . 

2 


ICABKJrriNG  AND  CASE*  OF  MEATS.  27 

rectioDS  are  for  a  wooden  house,  and  it  is  better  thus  than  to  have  a  ^n  with" 
in  a  brick  hoose,  because  too  ranch  warmth  lessens  the  flavor  and  tendemees 
of  the  hams.  Change  the  position  of  the  hams  once  or  twice,  that  all  maj 
be  treated  alike.  When  this  can  not  be  done,  nse  an  inverted  barrel  or  hogs- 
head, with  a  hole  for  the  smoke  to  escape,  and  resting  on- stones;  and  keep  a 
small,  smouldering  fire.  Cobs  are  best,  as  giving  a  better  flavor ;  and  brands 
or  chips  of  walnat  wood  are  next  best  Keeping  a  small  flre  a  longer  time  is 
better  than  qoicker  smoking,  as  too  much  heat  gives  the  hams'a  strong  taste, 
and  thej  are  less  sweet. 
The  hoose  and  barrel  are  shown  in  Fig.  5,  on  precedmg  page. 


n 


CHAPTER  m. 


Ijr  Qsiiig  tmlt  and  pepper,  diTeraties  of  streDgth  make  % 
dhBcoltj  in  giTiDg  yetj exact  directions;  so  alao  do  ineqoal- 
itiea  in  the  size  of  spoons  and  tomblers.  Bat  so  mnch  can 
be  done,  that  a  boosekeeper,  after  one  trial,  can  giTe  exact 
directions  to  ber  cook,  or  with  a  pencil  alter  tbe  recipe. 

It  is  a  great  convenience  to  have  recipes  that  employ  meas- 
nres-  which  all  families  have  on  hand,  so  as  not  to  use  steel- 
yards  and  balances.  The  following  will  be  found  the  most 
convenient: 


A  mediiim  tize  tea-^pooo,  eren  fall,  cqamb  60  drops,  or  one  dglidi  of  «a 
oooec 

A  mtAxum  une  uUe-fpooo,  eren  faS,  cqamb  two  teA-cpooofnli. 

One  oooee  equals  dght  eren  tes-spooofols,  or  four  uble-qMxmfoliL 

One  gUl  eqtuds  dght  eren  uble-^ooofols. 

Hslf  s  gill  eqosls  foor  eren  uble-^Kxmlals. 

Two  sills  eqosl  half  s  pint,  and  four  giDs  equal  one  pint 

One  oomiDon  size  tombler  equals  half  a  pint,  or  two  giOs. 

One  pint  equals  two  tomblerfuls,  or  four  gills. 

One  quart  equals  four  tnmblerfuls,  or  eight  gills. 

Four  quarts  equal  one  gallon. 

Four  gallons  equal  one  peck. 

Four  pecks  equal  one  bushel. 

A  quart  of  sifted  flour,  heaped,  a  sifted  quart  of  sugar,  and  a  softened 
quart  of  batter  each  weigh  about  a  pound,  and  so  nearly  that  measoring  is 
as  good  B»  weighing. 

Water  is  heavier,  and  a  pint  of  water  weighs  nearly  a  pound. 

Ten  eggs  weigh  about  one  pound. 

The  most  economical  modes  of  cooking,  as  to  time^  care^ 
and  ^or,  are  stews,  soups,  and  bashes;  aod  when  properly 
seasoned,  they  are  great  favorites,  especially  with  children. 

Below  is  a  drawing  of  a  stew  and  soup-kettle  that  any  tin- 
man can  easily  make.  Its  advantages  are,  thaty'^afler  the 
meat  is  put  in,  there  is  no  danger  of  scorching,  and  no  watch- 
ing is  required,  except  to  keep  up  the  fire  aright,  so  as  to. 


ffTEWS  ASn  ROUPS.  29 

bave  a  steady  simmerlDg.  Another  advantage  is,  that,  by 
the  tight  cover,  the  steam  and  Savors  are  confined,  and  the 
coolting  thus  improved.  Then,  in  taking^  tip  the  stew,  it  o^ 
fers  several  conveniences,  aa  will  be  fonnd  on  trial. 


This  stew-kettle  consists  of  two  pans,  the  inner  one  not 
fastened,  bat  fitting  tight  to  the  outer,  with  holes  the  size  of 
a  large  pio-head  commencing  half  an  inch  from  the  bottom 
and  coatinutDg  to  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the  onder 
'  pan.  It  has  a  fiat  lid,  on  which  may  be  placed  a  weight,  to 
confine  steam  and  fiavoi-s.  The  holes  may  be  an  inch  apart. 
The  size  of  the  kettle  mast  depend  on  the  size  of  the  family : 
it  may  be  of  any  desired  size. 

General  DirecHona. 

Generally,  in  making  stews,  nee  soft  water ;  but  when  only 
bard  -is  at  hand,  pat  in  half  a  tea-spoonfnl  of  soda  to  every 
two  quarts  of  water.  Pat  in  all  the  .bones  and  gristle  first, 
breaking  the  bones  thoroughly. 

Bub  fresh  meat  with  salt,  and  pnt  it  in  cotd  water,  for 
Bonpfl,  aa  this  extracts  the  juices. 

As  soon  as  water  begins  to  boil,  skim  repeatedly  till  no 
more  soum  rises. 

Never  let  water  boil  hard  for  sonps  or  stews ;  for 


Let  the  water  gimmer  genii}/  and  not  stop  simmering  long, 
IS  this  injures  both  looks  and  fiavor. 


80       THX  HOUSBKSSPBB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

Keep  in  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  or  it  becomeis 
hard  and  dark. 

In  preparing  for  soups,  it  is  best  to  make  a  good  deal  of 
broth  at  one  time;  cool  it  slowly, first  removing  sediment 
by  Btraining  through  a  colander.  When  cold,  remove  the 
fat  from  the  top,  and  keep  the  liquor  for  soups  and  gravies. 
This  is  called  stocky  and  as  such  should  have  no  other  season- 
ing than  salt.  The  other  seasoning  is  to  be  put  in  when 
heated  and  combined  with  other  material  for  soup. 

Jn  hot  weather,  stock  will  keep  only  a  day  or  two;  but  in 
cool  weather,  three  or  four  days.  If  vegetables  were  boiled 
in  it,  it  would  turn  sour  sooner. 

Remnants  of  cooked  meats  may  be  used  together  for  soup; 
but  take  care  that  none  is  tainted,  thus  spoiling  all.  Liquor 
in  which  corned  beef  is  boiled  should  be  saved  to  mix  with 
stock  of  fresh  meat,  and  then  little  or  no  salt  is  needed.  The 
recipes  for  stews  that  follow  will  make  good  soups  by  add- 
ing more  water.  . 

Beef  And  Potato  Stow. — Cat  up  fodr  poondf  of  beef  ioto  strips  three  inches 
by  two,  and  pat  them  into  two  qaarts  of  water,  with  one  onion  sliced  very 
fine.  Let  this  nmmer  four  hours.  Add  in  half  a  cup  of  warm  water  six 
eren  tea-spoonfols  of  salt,  three  of  sugar,  three  of  Tinegar,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
black  pepper,  and  six  heaping  tea-spoonfuls  of  flower,  lumps  rubbed  out 
Pour  these  upon  the  meat ;  cut  up,  slice,  and  add  six  potatoes,  and  let  all 
stew  till  the  meat  is  yery  tender,  and  the  potatoes  are  soft.  If  potatoes  are 
omitted,  leaye  out  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  the  pepper. 

Be  sure  and  skim  yeiy  thoroughly  when  boiling  commences,  and  do  not 
allow  hard  boiling,  but  only  a  gentle  simmer. 

French  Mutton  and  Turnip  Stew. — Cut  up  two  pounds  of  mutton,  with  a 
little  of  the  fat,  into  two-inch  squares.  Rub  two  heaping  table-spoonftds  of 
butter  into  two  table- spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  it  into  the  meat,  with  water 
just  enough  to  cover  it.  Add  three  even  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  half  a  one  of 
pepper,  four  of  sugar,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  small  onion,  sliced  yery  fine. 
Skim  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  and  then  add  thirty  pieces  of  turnips,  each 
an  inch  square,  that  haye  been  fried  brown.  Iset  all  stew  till  meat  and  tur- 
nips are  tender ;  throw  out  the  parsley',  and  serve  with  the  turnips  in  the 
centre,  and  the  meat  around  it. 

• 

A  ffimple  Kntton  jStew. — :Cat  four  pounds  of  mutton  into  two-inch  squares, 
add  four  even  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  four  of  sugar,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  and  a 
small  onion,  sliced  fine.    Stew  three  hours,  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  then 


STBWS  AND  SOUPS.  >  j       .  ,31 

thicken  with  fire  tea-spooDfuls  of  floor,  lamps  robbed  out  Six  tomatoes,  or 
some  tomato  catsap,  improves  this. 

•  . .  .  » 
A  Beef  Stew,  with  Vegetable  Flavon.~Cot  up  four  pounds  of  beef  into 

two-tnch  sqnaies,  and  add  two  qnarts  of  water.  Let  it  stew  one  honr.  Then 
add  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  tnrnips^  two  sliced  carrots,  fomr  sliced  toma- 
toes, four  heaping  tea-spoojifnls  of  salt,  one  small  tearspoonfol  bf  pepper,  four 
tea-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  five  cloves.  Let  it  stew  till  there  is  only  about 
a^ea-cupfol  of  graTjr,  and  thicken  this  with  a  littie  floor. 

The  above  may  be  cooked  without  cutting  up  the  meat,  and  it  is  giDod 
eaten  cokL  Pressing-  it  under  a  weight  improves-it,  and  so  does  putting  it 
in  an  oven  for  half  an  honr. 

A  Stew  of  Chicken,  Dnck,  or  Turkey,  with  Celery  or  Tomatoee^—Take  a 
quart  of  lukewarm  water,  and  add  two  heaping  tea-spoonfols  of  salt,  two  of 
sugar,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper.  Cut  up  a  large  head  of  celery,  or  four' 
laige  tomatoes.  Cut  the  fowl  into  dght  or  more  pieces,  and  let  all  simmer 
together  two  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  rery  tender.  Then  add  two  table-spoon- 
fuU  of  butter,  worked  into  as  much  flour,  and  let  it  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 

A  FaTorite  Irish  Stew. — Cut  two  pounds  of  motton  into  pieces  two  inches 
sqoare ;  add  a  little  of  the  chopped  hi,  three  tea^^poonf  uls  of  salt,  half  a  one 
of  black  pepper,  two  of  sugar,  two  sliced  onions,  and  a  quart  of  water.  Let 
them  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  six  peeled  potatoes,  cut  in  quar- 
ters, lliat  have  soaked  in  cold  water  an  hour.  Let  the  whole  stew  an  hour . 
lon^,  or  itther  till  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Skim  it  at  first  and  just 
before  taking  up. 

Veal  Stew. — ^Put  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  with 
three  tea-spoonfols  of  salt  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  pepper.  Then 
chop  fine  and  tie.  in  a  muslin  rag  one  carrot,  two  small  onions,  a  small 
bunch  of  summer  savory,  and  another  of  parsley ;  put  them  in  the  water, 
and  let  them  -stew  three  or  four  hours,  till  the  meat  is  very  tender.  There 
should  only  be  about  half  a  pint  of  gravy  at  the  bottom.  Pour  in  bailing 
water,  if  needed,  ^tnxa  the  gravy,  and  thicken  with  Ibur  spoonfbls  of  fionr 
or  potato-starch,  and  let  it  boil  up  a  minute  only.  This  is  improved  by  add- 
ing at  first  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  ham,  cut  in  strips.  When  this  is 
4otte,  no  salt  is  to  be  used,  or  only  one  tea-spoonful.    Tomatoes  improve  it. 

Another. — Cut  four  pounds  bf  veal  into  strips  one  inch  thick  and  three 
inches  long,  and  peel  and  soak  twelve  potatoes  cut  into  slices  half  an  inth 
thick.  Then  put  a  layer  of  potk  at  the  bottom,  and  alternate  layers  of  pota- 
toes and  veal,  with  a  layer  of  salt  pork  on  the  top.  Put  three  tea-^Kwnfuls 
of  salt,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  four  of  sugar,  and  six  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour, 
with  lumps  robbed  out,  into  two  quarts  of  water.  Pour  all. upon  the  veal  and 
potatoes,  and  let  them  stew  till  the  veal  is  very  tender.  Add  twelve  peeled 
and  sliced  tomatoes,  which  will  improve  this. 


82       TkX   HOUSSKEEPEB  AND  HSALTHKSBPEB. 


A  FaTOrite  Tnrkiih  Stew,  (called  Pilaff.)— Take  some  rich  broth,  sea- 
loned  to  the  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  tomato  catsap.  Add  two  tea-caps 
of  rice,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  rice  absorbs  as  mach  as  it  will  take  np  with- 
out losing  its  form— saj  abont  fifteen  minates.  Cnt  up  a  chicken,  and  sea- 
son it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  it  in  sweet  Jmtter  or  cream.  Then  put 
the  chicken  in  the  centra  of  the  rice)  and  cover  it  entirely  with  rice.  Then 
poor  on  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  and  let  it  stand  where  it  is  hot,  and 
yet  will  not  fry,  for  fiifteen  minutes.    To  be  serred  hoL 

A  Bioe  or  Hominy  Stew.-^Take  four  pounds  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat, 
cut  into  pieces  two  inches  square,  and  put  in  the  stew-pan  with  One  pint  of 
hominy.  Then  put  into  two  quarts  of  warm  water  fire  heaping  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  salt,  four  of  sugar,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  and  three  of  rinegar.  Let 
them  simmer  four  or  ^ye  hours,  till  the  meat  is  very  tender.  A  tea-cup  of 
rice  may  be  used  instead  of  hominy.  A  little  salt  pork  improves  this,  as  well 
as  all  other  stews.  ^ 

A  Favorite  Bngliah  Beef  Stew.— Simmer  a  shank  or  liock  of  beef  in  font 
quarts  of  water,  with  four  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  salt,  until  the  beef  is 
soft  and  the  water  reduced  to  about  two  quarts.  Then  add  peeled  and  soaked 
potatoes  cut  into  thick  slices,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  pepper,  two  of  sweet  mar- 
joram, and  two  of  either  thyme  or  spmmer  savory.  Stew  till  the  potatoes 
aire  soft,  add  bread-crumbs  and  more  salt  if  needfuL  One  or  two  onions  cut 
fine,  and  put  in  at  first,  improve  it  for  most  persons. 

French  Stew,  or  Pot  au  Feu. — Put  three  pounds  Of  fresh  meat  into  three 
quarts  of  cold  water,  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt.  When  it  begins  to  sim- 
mei*,  add  a  gill  of  cold  water,  and  skim  thoroughly.  Then  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound- Of  liver,  a  medium-sized  carrot  sliced,  two  small  turnips,  two  middle- 
sized  leeks,  half  a  head  of  celery,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  one  onion 
with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic.  Simmer  ^Te  hours. 
Strain  the  broth  into  a  soup-dish,  and  serve  the  meat  and  vegetables  on  a 
platter.    If  more  water  is  needed,  add  that  which  is  boiling. 

When  the  dish  is  served  all  together,  it  is  called  Pot  au  Feu,  and  the  vessel 
in  which  it  is  cooked  has  the  same  name.  It  is  the  common  dish  of  the 
French  peasantiy. 

The  following  is  the  receipe  for  the  favorite  Spanish  disIT. 
A  superior  housekeeper  tried  it,  and  it  was  so  mach  liked 
that  several  of  her  family  were  harmed  by  eating  too  much: 

s 

Spanish  QUa  Podrida. — ^Fry  four  ounces  of  salt  pork  in  the  pot,  and,  when 
partly  done,  add  two  pounds  of  fresh  beef  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham. 
Add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt  in  cold  water,  and  only  enough  just  to  cover 
the  meat.  Skim  carefully  the  first  half-hour,  and  then  add  a  gill  of  peas,  (if 
dried,  soak  them  an  hour  first,)  half  ahead  of  pabbage,  one  carrot,  one  turnip, 


STEWS  AND  SOUPS.  83 

two  leeks,  three  stalks  of  celeiy,  three  stalks  of  parsley,  two  stalks  of  thyme, 
two  doves,  two  onions  sliced,  two  cloves  of  garlic,^  ten  pepper-corns,  and  a 
pinch  of  powdered  mace  or  nutmeg.  Simmer  steadily  for  five  honrs.  When 
the  water  is  too  low,  add  that  which  is  hoiling.  Pat  the  meat  on  a  platter, 
and  the  TegetiJ>les  aroond  it.  Strain  the  liqoor  on  to  toasted  hread  in  a 
soup-dish. 

All  these  articles  can  he  ohtained  at  grocers*  or  markets  in  oar  laiige  cities, 
and  of  coarse  can  be  procured  in  the  country.  • 

Franeh  KatUm  8tew. — ^Take  a  leg  of  mutton  and  remove  the  large  hone, 
leaving  the  bone  at  the  small  end  as  a  handle ;  cut  off  also  the  bone  below  the 
knackle,  and  fix  it  with  skewers. 

Put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  pinch  of  allspice,  four  onions,  two  doves,  two 
carrots,  each  cut  in  four  pieces,  a  small  banch  of  parsley,  two  bay  leaves,  three 
sprigs  of  thyme,  and  iolt  andp^jper  to  the  taste.  Add  two  ounces  of  bacon 
cat  in  slices,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  broth,  and  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
After  one  hour  of  simmering,  add  a  wine-glass  of  French  brandy. 

Let  them  simmer  tye  hoars  longer,  and  then  dish  it ;  strain  the  saace  on 
it,  and  serve.  * 

The  American  housekeeper  by  experiments  can  modify 
these  foreign  recipes  to  meet  the  taste  of  her  family,  and  will 
find  them  economical  modes  of  cooking,  as  well  as  healthful 
to  most  persons. 

FRENCH  MODES   OF  COOKINQ  SOUPS   AKD  STEWS. 

The  writer  has  examined  thel^cipes  of  Goufiee,  the  chief 
French  cook  of  the  Queen  of  England,  set  forth  in  the  ex- 
pensive Royal  Cook-Book ;  also  those  of  Soyer  and  Professor 
Blot.  She  and  her  friends  also  have  tested  many  of  their 
recipes. 

The  following  are  most  of  the  flavors  used  by  them  in, 
cooking  soups,  stews,  hashes,  etc.  Combination  of  these  is 
recommended  by  those  authors  in  these  proportions: 

One  fourth  of  an  oanoe  of  thyme.   ' 

One  fourth  of  an  oance  of  bay  leaf. 

One  dgfath  of  an  oance  of  maijonun. 

One  eighth  of  an  oance  of  rosemary. 

Dry  the  above  when  fresh,  mix  in  a  mortar,  and  keep  them  corked  tightin 

ghsa  bottle. 

Also  the  following  in  these  proportions : 

2* 


84  '      THE  H0U8EKEEPSB  AND  HSALTHKEEPSB. 

Half  an  oimce  of  nnlmeg. 

Half  an  oance  of  cIoTes. . 

One  foorth  of  an  oonce  of  black  pepper. 

One  eighth  of  an  oonce  of  Cayenne  pepper. 

Foond,  mix,  and  ^eep  corked  tight  In  ^ast.  In  osing  these  with  salt,  pat 
one  ounce  of  the  last  recipe  to  four  ounces  of  salt  In  making  force-meat 
and  hashes,  use  at  the  rate  of  one  ounce  of  this  spiced  salt  to  three  pounds 
of  meat 

Soup  Powder. — ^Two  ounces  of  parslej. 

Two  ounces  of  winter  savoiy. 

Two  ouncctB  of  sweet  maxjoram. 

Two  ounces  of  lemon-thjme. 

One  ounce  of  lemon-peeL 

One  ounce  of  sweet  basiL  . 

Dry,  pound,  sift,  and  keep  in  a  tight-corked  bottle. 

Let  the  honsekeeper^add  these  flavors  so  that  they  will 
not  be  strong^  bat  quite  delicate,  and  then  make  a  rule  for 
the  cook. 

The  peculiar  excellence  of  French  cooking  is  the  combina- 
tion of  flavors,  so  that  no  one  is  predominant,  and  IeiH  are  del- 
icate in  force  and  quantity. 


SOUPS.  35 


CHAPTER  I^ 

SOUPS. 

General  Directions. 

Most  of  the  precedbg  stews  will  serve  also  fairly  as  sonps, 
by  adding  more  water.  Rub  salt  into  meat  for  soups,  bat 
not  for  stews,  as  the  salt  extracts  the  juices;  and  in  stews 
the  meat  is  to  be  eaten,  while  in  soups  properly  so  called  it 
is  only  the  liquor  that  is  served.  Put  meat  into  cold  water 
for  soups,  as  slowly  heating  also  extracts  the  juices.  For  this 
same  reason,  meat  that  is  boiled  for  eating  sbould  be  put 
into  boiling  water  to  keep  the  juicesjn  it 

Always  skim  often^  as  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  simmer; 
and  do  not  add  the  salt  and  other  sefusoning  till  the  scum 
ceases  to  rise. 

Do  not  boil  after  the  juices  are  extracted,  as  too  much 
boiling  injures  the  flavor. 

Never  cool  soup  in  metal,  as  there  may  be  poison  in  the 
soldering  or  othier  parts.  ' 

If  you  flavor, your  soup  by  vegetables,  do  pot  boil  them* 
in  the  soup,  but  in  very  liUle  water,  which  is  to  be  added  to 
the  sonp  with  them,  as  it  contains  much  of  their  flavor. 

When  onion  is  used  for  flavor,  slice  and  fry  it,  and  dredge 
on  a  little  flour;  i&dd  the  water  in  which  the  vegetables  for 
soup  were  boiled,  or, isome  meat  broth,  and  then  pour  it  into 
the  soup.  If  you  flavor  with  wine,  soy,  or  catsup,  put  them 
into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  upon  them,  as  the  flavor 
is  lessened  by  putting  them  into  the  soup-kettle.  Bread- 
crumbs, toast,  or  crackers  also  must  be .  put  in  the  tureen. 
Keep  soup  covered  tight  while  boiling,  to  keep  in  flavors. 
If  water  is  added,  i£  must  be  boiling.  The  rule  to  guide  in 
using  salt  and  pepper  is  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  salt  to  a 
quart  of  water,  and  one-sixth  as  much  pepper.  But  as  tastes 
are  different,  and  the  salt  and  pepper  vary  in  strength,  the 
housekeeper  can,  on  trial,  change  the  recipe  with  a  pencil. 


89  THB   HOUSKKE^EB  AND  BSALTHKSBPSR. 

8(ntp  stock  is  broth  of  any  kind  of  meat  prepared  in  large 
quantity,  to  keep  on  hand  for  gravies  and  soups.  Beef  and 
veal  make  the  best  stock.  One  hind  shin  of  beef  makes  five 
quarts  of  stock,  and  one  hind  shin  of  veal  makes  three  quarts. 
Wash  and  put  into  tulice  as  much  water  as  you  wish  to,  to 
have  soup,  and  simmer  five  or  six  hours. 

All  kinds  of  bones  should  be  mashed.and  boiled  five  or  six 
hours,  to  take  out  all  the  nutriment,  the  liquor  then  strained, 
)ind  kept  in  earthenware  or  stone,  not  in  tin.  Take  off  the 
fat  when  cool. 

•Gool  broth  quickly,  and  it  keeps  longer. 

Use  a  flat-bottom  kettle,  as  Jess  likely  to  scorch. 

Soft  water  is  best  for  soups;  a  little  soda  improves  hard 
water.  . 

Stock  will  keep  three  or  four  days  in  cool  weather ;  not  so 
long  in  warm.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  When  used^  heat 
to  boiling  point,  and  then  take  up  and  flavor. 

Put  in  the  salt  and  pepper  when  the  meat  is  thoroughly 
dona    . 

,  Meat  sonps  ftre  best  the  second  day,  if  warmed  slowly  and 
taken  up  as  soon  as  heated.  If  heated  too  long,  they  become 
insipid. 

Thin  soups  must  be  strained.  If  to  be  made  very  clear,  stir 
in  ono  or  two  well  beaten  eggi9,with  the  shells,  and  let  it 
boil  half  an  hour. 

Use  the  meat  of  the  soup  for  a  hash,  wanned  together  with 
a  little  lat,  and  well  seasoned. 

Be  very  careftil,  in  using  bones  and  cold  meats  for  soups, 
that  none  is  tainted^  for  the  soup  may  be  ruined  by  a  single' 
bit  of  tainted  meat  or  bone. 


Potato  Soup. — ^Take  six  large  meal j  potatoes,  sliced  and  soaked  an  hour. 
Add  one  onion,  sliced  and  tied  in  a  rag,  a  qaart  of  milk,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pOand  of  salt  pork  cat  in  slices.  Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  then 
aidd.  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  a  well-beaten  egg,  mixed  in  a  cup 
of  milk.  This  is  a  favorite,  soup  with  many,  and  easily  made.  Some  omit 
the  pork,  and  use  salt  and  pepper  to  flaTor  it,  and  add  one  well  beaten  egg. 

Green  Com  Soup. — ^This  is  very  nice  made  with  sVeet  com  put  into  sea- 
son^ soup  stock. 


60FP8.  87 

Fkin  Beef  Soap. — ^Pat  three  pounds  of  beef  and  one  chopped  onion,  tied 
in  a  mgt  to  three  qoarts  of  cold  water.  Simmer  till  the  meat  is  yery  soft — 
saj  four  honrs ;  then  add  three  tea-spoonfals  of  salt,  as  much  sugar,  ^pd 
half  a  tea-epoonfol  of  pepper.  Anj^other  flavors  may  be  added  to  suit  the 
taste.  Strain  the  soup,  and  save  the  meat  for  mince-meat  or  hash.  Half  a 
dozen  sliced  tomatoes  will  much  improTe  this.  Some  would  thicken  with 
three  or  foar  tea-spoonfuls  of  potato-starch  or  flour. 

Bieh  Beef  Soup. — ^The  following  is  a  specimen  of  soups  that  are  most  styl. 
ish,  rich,  and  demand  most  care  in  preparation : 

Simmer  six  pounds  of  beef  for  six  hours  in  six  quarts  of  water,  using  the 
bones,  broken  in  small  pieces.  Cool  it,  and  take  off  the  &t.  Next  day,  an 
boor  before  dinner,  take  out  the  meat  to  use  for  hash  or  mince-meat,  heat  the 
fiquor,  throw  in  some  salt  to  raise  the  scum,  and  skim  it  weU.  Then  slice 
smaD,  and  boQ  in  very  little  water,  these  vegetables :  two  turnips,  two  car- 
rots, one  head  of  celery,  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  half  a  head  of  small  white 
cabbage,  one  pint  of  green  com  or  Shaker  com,  soaked  over  night.  Cook 
the  cabbage  in  two  waters,  throwing  avray  the  first  Boil  the  soup  half  an 
hour  after  these  are  put  in.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  wine  to 
suit  the  taste. 

Green  Pea  Sonp.-rBoil  the  pods  an  hour  in  a  gallon  of  water.  Strain  the 
liquor,  and  put  into  it  four  pounds  of  beef  or  mutton,  and  simmer  one  hour. 
Then  add  half  the  peas  contained  in  hitlf  a  peck  of  pods,-  and  boil  half  an 
boor ;  then  thicken  with  two  great  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and.  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    Three  tomatoes,  sliced,  improve  this. 

Dried  Bean  8<mp  or  Pea  8<mp. — Soak  the  beans,  if  dry,  over  night,  and 
then  boil  till  soft.  Then  strain  them  through  a  colander ;  and  to  each  quart 
of  liquor  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  salt-spoon- 
ful of  pepper.  Add  a,  beaten  egg,  a  tea-cup  of  n^k,  and  two  spoonfuls  of 
baiter.  A  sliced  onion  improves  it  for  sonSe,  and  not  fbr  others ;  also,  half 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  when  taken  up.  Canned' sweet-com,  or  common  com 
with  sugar  added,  makes  good  ntceotash  for  winter. 

€lam  Soap.— Wash  and  boil  the  clams  till  the^  come  out  of  their  shells  easi- 
ly ;  then  chop  them,  and  put  them  back  into  the  liqupr,  which  should  first  be 
strained.  Add  a  tea-cup  of  milk  for  each  quart  of  soup ;  thicken  with  a  lit- 
tle floor,  into  which  has  been  worked  as  much  batter  as  it  will  hold,  and  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 

A  Vegetable  and  Xeat  Soap  for  Sommer. — ^Take  three  quarts  of  stock  that 
is  duly  seasoned  with  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper.  Ad!d  two  small  onions,  chop- 
ped fine,  three  small  carrots,  three  small  turnips,  one  stalk  of  celery,  and  a  pint 
of  green  peas — all  chopped  fine.    Let  it  simmer  two  hours,  and  then  serve  it. 

/ 

Dried  Pea  Soap  with  Salt  Pork.— Soak  a  quart  of  split  peas  over  nigbt  in 


^8       THE  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHKEEPES. 

soft  water.    Next  morning  irash  them  and  pat  them  in  four  qoarts  of  water,« 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  sngar,  two  carrots,  two  small  onions,  and  oqe  stalk  of 
celery — all  cat  in  small  pieces.    Let  them  hoil  three  hoars.    Boil  a  pound  of 
siffi  pork  in  another  pot  for  one  hour ;  take  off  the  skin,  and  pat  the  pork  i^ 
the  soap,  and  then  boil  one  hoar  longer.* 

Dried  Bean  or  Pea  Soup  with  ICeat  Stook.-— Soak  a  pint  of  beanb  or  split 
peas  over  night  in  soft  water.  Then  boil  them  in  three  qnarts  of  soap-stock, 
daly  seasoned  with  salt  and  pq>per,  with  one  small  onion,  one  tamip,  one 
stalk  of  celeiy,  and  six  doves — all  cut  in  small  pieces.  Let  it  bofl  four  or 
five  hours.    Strain  through  a  colander. 

Xatton  Soup. — ^Boil  four  pounds  of  matton  in  four  quarts  of  water,  with 
four  heaping  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  eren  tea-spoonfol  of  pepper,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  small  onion,  two  carrots,  and  two  turnips~-«ll  cut  fine 
— and  one  tea-cup  of  rice  or  broken  macaroni.  Boil  the  meat  alone  two 
hours ;  then  add  the  rest,  and  boil  one  hour  and  a  half  longer. 

Treneh  Vegetable  Soup.— Take  a  leg  of  lamb,  of  moderate  nze,  and  four 
quarts  of  water.  Of.  potatoes,  carrots,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  and  tOmips,  take  a 
tea-cupful  of  each,  chopped  fine.  Salt  and  black  pepper  at  the  rate  of  one 
heaping  tea-spoonful  of  salt  to  each  qnart  of  water,  and  one  sixth  as  much 
black  pepper. 

Wash  the  lamb,  and  put  it  into  the  four  quarts  of  cold  water.  When  the 
scuQi  rises,  take  it  off  carefuDy  with  a  skimmer.  After  having  pared  and 
chopped  the  vegetables,  put  them  into  the  soup.  Carrots  require  the  most 
boiling,  and  should  be  put  in  first  This  soup  requires  aboat  three  hours  to 
boil. 

Plain  Calf's  Head  Soup. — Boil  the  head  and  feet  in  just  water  enough  to 
cover  them ;  when  tender,  take  out  the  bones,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  sea- 
son with  maijoriam;  thyme,  doves,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Put  all  into  a  pot,  with  the  liquor,  and  four  spoonftils  of  butter ;  stew  gen- 
tly an  hour ;  then,  just  as  you  take  it  up,  add  two  or  three  glasses  of  port-wine, 
and  the  ydks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard. 

An  Szeellent  Simplai  Xatton  Soap. — ^Pnt  a  piece  of  the  fore-quarter  of 
matton  into  saltiod  water,  enough  to  more  than  cover  it,  and  simmcnr  it  slow- 
ly two  hours.  Then  ped  a  dozen  turnips,  and  six  tomatoes, 'and  qoarter 
them,  and  boil  them  with  the  matton  till  just  tender  enough  to  eat  Tliicken 
the  soup  with  pearl  barley.  Some  nse,  instead  of  tomatoes,  the  juice  and 
rind  of  a  lemon.    Use  half  a  tea-cap  of  rice,  if  you  have  nb  peail  barley. 


HASHBS.  dd 


CHAPTER  V. 

HASHES. 

These  are  the  common  ways  of  spoiliog  hashes :  1.  by  fry- 
ing, instead  of  merely  heating  them.  Melted  bntter  and  oils 
are  good  and  healthful  when  only  heated,  but  are  nnhealth- 
ful  when  fried.  2.  Dredging  in  flour,  which,  not  being  well 
cooked,  imparts  a  raw  taste  of  dough.  3.  Using  too  much 
water,  making  them  vapid ;  or  too  much  fat  or  gravy,  making 
them  gross.  4.  Using  too  much  or  too  little  salt  and  other 
seasoning.  The  following  recipes  will  save  from  these  mis- 
takes, if  exactly  followed.  When  water  is  recommended  in 
these  recipes,  cold  gravy,  will  be  )better,  in  which  case  the 
butter  may  be  omitted : 

A  Seaioiied  Haih  of  anj  Fmh  Keati.— Chop,  bat  not  rery  fine,'  any  kinds 
of  fresh  meat,  bat  be  sare  not  to  pat  in  any  that  is  tainted.  To  a  common 
tomblerfol  of  chopped  meat  pat  three  table-spoonfals  of  water,  a  tea-spoonfol 
of  sagar,  a  heaping  tea-spoonfal  of  salt,  a  salt-spoonfal  of  pepper,  and. batter 
the  size  of  half  an  egg.  Warm,  bat  do  not  fiy ;  and  when  hot,  break  in 
three  eggs,  and  stir  till  they  are  hardened  a  little;  then  serre.  Bread- 
crambs  may  be  added.  This  may  be  pat  on  battered  toast  or  served  alone. 
This  and  all  the  following  hashes  may  be  varied  in  flavor,  by  adding,  in  deli- 
cate proportions,^the  mixed  flavors  on  another  page. 

A  Hash  of  Colii  Fresh  ICeats  and  Potatoes.— Take  two  tamblerfols  of  meat 
of  any  kind,  chopped.  Add  as  mnch  cold  potatoes,  also  chopped,  two  table- 
spooofals  of  sweet  batter  in  six  table-spoonfbls  of  hot  water,  and  two  tea- 
spoonftils.  of  sal^  Sprinkle  half  a  tea-q)oonfal  of  pepper  over  the  meat,  and 
sjso  a  spoonfal  of  sugar ;  mix  all,  and  warm  aboat  twenty  minates,  hot  not 
so  as  to  boil  or  fry.     Tomatoes  improve  this. 

Meat  Hash  with  S^gs,  (veiy  nice.)— To  a  tamblerfal  of  fresh  cold  meat 
cat  in  pieces  aboat  the  size  of  peas,  pat  three  table-spoonfals  of  hot  water, 
two  spoonfuls  of  hotter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sogar,  two  tea-spoonfals  of  salt, 
and  a  salt-spoonfol  of  pepper.  Mix  all,  warm  bat  not  f^ ;  and  when  hot, 
bfeak  in  four  eggs*  and  stir  till  they  are  hardened. '  Spread  on  battered  toast 
or  lenrealone.    When  ^ggs  are  used,  the  meat  should  not  be  chopped  flne. 


40       THB  HOUSEKESPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPER. 

A  ICMit  Haih  With  Ttmuitoet.— Cot  op  a  pint  of  tomatoes  into  a  sance- 
paD,  and  when  boiliog-hoty  add  the  cold  meat  in  thin  slices,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper,  at  the  rate  of  a  tea-spoonfnl  of  salt 
and  half  a  tea-spoonfnl  of  pepper  to  each  tumblerful  of  meat. 

A  Sie^  Beef  Hash.— Make  a  gravy  of  melted  butter,  or  Uke  cold  gravy ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  currant  jelly  or  rinegar.  Cut  cold  roast  beef 
or  the  remnants  of  cold  steak  into  mouthfuls,  and  put  into  the  gravy  till 
heated,  but  not  to  try. 

Or,  steson  this  gravy  with  the  crushed  juice  of  fresh  tomatoes  or  tomatq 
catsup. 

A  f^Tfit  and  BxeeUent  Veal  Hash. — Chop  cold  veal  very  fine;  butter  a 
pndding-dish,  and  make  alternate  layers  of  veal  and  powdered  ci|ickers  till 
the  dish  is  full,  the  first  layer  of  ineat  being  at  the  bottom.  Then  beat  up 
two  eggs,  and  add  a  pint  or  less  of  milk,  seasoned  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Pour  this  over  the  meat  and 
crackers ;  cover  with  a  plate,  and  bake  abont  half  an  hour.  Remove  the 
plate  awhile,  and  let  the  top  brown  a  little.  This  is  the  best  way  to  cook 
veal,  and  children  are  very  fond  of  it. 

Bioe  and  Ck>ld  Keats. — Chop  remnants  of  fresh  meats  with  salt  pork,  or 
cold  ham.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  sugar;  add  two  egg" 
and  a  little  butter.  Then  make  alternate  layers  with  this  and  slices  of  cold 
boited  rice,  and  bake  it  half  an  honr. 

BreadpOmmbs  and  Cold  Heats. — Take  any  remnants  of  cooked  fresh 
meats,  and  chop  them  fine  with  bits  of  bam  or  salt  pork.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  add  three  eggs  and  a  little  milk,  and  then  thicken  with  pounded 
bread-crumbs.  Bake*  it  as  a  padding,  or  warm  it  for  a  bash,  or  cook  it  in 
fiat  cakes  on  a  griddle. 

A  Meat  Hash  with  Bre^d-Onimbs.— One  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  (or  potato 
or  corn-starch,)  wet  in  four  tea-spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Stir  it  into  a  tea- 
cnpful  of  boiling  water,  and  put  in  a  salt-spobnful  of  peppdr,  two  tea-spbonfols 
of  salt,  a  tea-spoonfnl  of  sugar,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  batter.  Use 
cold  gravy  instead  of  batter,  if  yon  have  it  Set  this  in  a  stew-pan  where  it 
will  be  Xept  hot,  but  not  fry.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  and  mix  .with  it 
while  chopping  half  as  much  dried  bread-cmmbs.  Put  this  into  the  gravy, 
sand  let  it  heat  only  ten  minutes,  and  then  serve  it  on  buttered  toast.  Toma- 
toes, one  or  two,  improve  thu. 

A  Hash  oC  Md  Beebteak  alone  or  with  Potatoes  and  Tnmipt.— Make  a 
paste  with  a  heaping  tea- spoonful  of  fiour  in  two  tea -spoonfuls  of  water. 
Stir  it  into  a  tea-cup  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  with  a. salt-spoonful  of  blsck 
pepper,  a  half  tea^poonfUl  of  sugar,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt.  Let  it 
stand  Where  it  will  be  hot  but  not  boil    Cut  the  beef  into  mouthfuls,  nnd  nlso 


HASHES.  41 

as  much  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  half  as  mnch  boiled  turnips.  Mix  all,  and 
then  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  (or  some  cold  gravj,)  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  or  two  sliced  tomatoes.  Warm,  bat  do  not  fr)r, 
for  ten  minutes. 

*  When  beef  gravy  is  used,  take  less  salt  and  pepper. 
This  is  a  good  recipe  for  cold  beef  without  vegetables. 

A  Hath  of  Cold  Xutton  (or  Venison)  and  Vegetables.— Prepare  as  in  the 
preceding  recipe,  but  add  one  onion  sliced  fine,  to  hide  the  strong  mutton 
taste.  If  onion  is  left  out,  put  in  a  wine-glass  of  grape  or  currant  jeUy.  If 
the  veS^tables  are  left  out,  put  in  a  little  less  pepper  and  salt. 

A  Hash  of  Corned  Beef. — Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  fat  and  lean  together ; 
add  twice  as  much  cold  potatoes  chopped  fine.  For  each  tnmblerful  of  this 
add  butter  half  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  melted  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  hot  water, 
a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper  and  another  of  salt.  Heat  very  hot,  but  do  not  let 
it  fry.     Some  would  add  parsley  or  other  sweet  herb. 

A  Hash  of  Cold  Ham.-^-Chop,  not  very  fine,  fat  and  lean  together.  Add 
twice  the  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  chopped,  but  not  fine.  Heat  it  hot,  then 
break  in  two  eggi  for  every  tumblerful  of  the  bash.  ^  tea-spoonfal  of  sugar 
improves  it,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper. 

Xeati  warmed  over. — ^Veal  is  best  made  into  hashes.  If  it  is  liked  more 
simply  cooked,  chop  it  .fine,  pot  in  water  just  enongh  to  moisten  it,  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  juice  of  a  lemon.  Some  like  a  little  lemon-rind 
grated  in.  Heat  it  through,  but  do  not  let  it  fry.  Put  it  on  battered  toast, 
and  garnish  it  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Cold  salted  or  fresh  beef  is  good  chopped  fine  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cat- 
sup, and  water  enough  to  moisten  a  little.  Add  some  butter  just  before  tak- 
ing it  up,  and  do  not  let  it  fry,  only  heat  it  hot.  It  injures  cooked  meat  to 
cook  it  again.  Cold  fowls  make  a  nice  dish  to  have  them  cut  up  in  month- 
fuls ;  add  some  of  the  gravy  and  giblet  sauce,  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  and 
then  heat  them  through. 

A  Bioe  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Meats. — Chop  the  meat  fine,  add  salt,  pepper, 
a  little  onion,  or  else  tomato  catsup ;  fill  a  tin  bread-pan  one  third  full,  cover 
it  over  with  boiled  potatoes  salted  and  mashed  with  cream  or  milk,  lay  bits 
of  butter  on  the  top,  and  set  it  into  a  Dutch  or  stove  oven  for  fifteen  or  twen- 
ty minutes. 

A  Hash  of  Qold  ICeat  for  Dinner,  (very  good.) — ^Peel  six  large  tomatoes 
and  one  onion,  and  slice  them.  Add  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  half  a  pint  of  cdid  water. 
Shave  up  the  meat  into  small  bits,  as  thin  as  thick  pasteboard.  Dredge 
fiour  over  it,  say  two  tea-spoonfuls,  or  a  little  less.  Simmer  the  meat  with 
all  the  rest  fi>r  half  an  hour  and  then  serve  it,  and  it  is  very  fine. 


42  .  THE  HOUSEK.EEPEB  AND  HEALTHKESPER. 

Dried  tomatoes  can  be  used.  When  joa  have  no  tomatoes,  make  a  gravy 
with  water,  pepper,  salt,  and  batter,  or  cold  grayy ;  slice  an  onion  in  it,  add 
tomato  catsap,  (two  or  three  spoonfuls,)  and  then  prepare  the  meat  as  aboye, 
and  simmer  it  in  this  grayy  half  an  hour, 

Sonie. — Cleanse  pigs'  ears  and  feet  and  soak  them  a  week  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter, changing  the  water  every  other  day.    Boil  eight  or  ten  honrs  till  tender. 
When  cold,  put  on  salt,  and  ponr  on  hot  spiced  vinegar.    Warm  them  in' 
lard  or  butter. 

Tripe. — Scrape  and  sconr  it  thoroughly,  soak  it  in  salt  and  water  a  week, 
changing  it  every  other  day.  Boil  it  eight  or  ten  hoars,  till  tender;  then 
pour  on^  spiced  hot  vin^;ar  and  broil  it. 


BOILBD  MEATS.  43 


CHAPTER  VL 

BOILED    HEATS. 

An  Sieellflnt  Way  to  eook  Tough  Beel— To  eight  potmds  of  beef  put  fonr 
qoarts  of  water,  two  table-spoonfals  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonfbl  of  pepper,  three 
tea-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  four  tea-spoonfols  of  sogar.  Pot  it  on  at  eigt^t 
in  the  morning,  and  let  it  simmer  slowlj  till  the  water  is  more  than  half  gone; 
then  skim  off  the  grease,  and  set  it  in  the  stove-oven  till  the  water  is  all  gone 
bat  about  a  tea-cupful,  which  is  for  gravy,  and  maj  be  thickened  a  little. 
Add  boiling  water,  if  it  goes  too  fast,  (for  in  some  kinds  of  weather  it  will 
evaporate  much  faster  than  in  other  days).  This  dish  should  be  very  tender, 
and  is  excellent  cold,  especiallj  if  it  is  pressed  under  a  heavy  weight.  This 
was  a  favorite  soldier*s  dish-;  and  tough  meat  is  as  good  as  it  is  tender,  when 
thus  cooked. 

Soiled  East — The  best  way  to  cook  a  ham  is  first  to  wash  it ;  then  take 
off  the  skin  and  bake  it  in  a  pan,  xnth  a  little  water  in  it,  in  a  stove  or  brick 
oven,  till  tender,  which  is  found  by  a  fork  piercing  easily.  Allow  twenty 
minutes  ifbr  each  pound. 

To  boil  a  ham,  soak  it  over  night ;  then  wash  in  two  waters,  using  a  brash. 
Boil  slowly,  and  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound.  When  cold,  take  ofi^ 
the  skin,  and  ornament  with  dots  of  pepper  and  fringed  paper  tied  around 
the  shank. 

A  nice  way  to  treat  a  cold  boiled  ham  is,  after  removing  the  skin,  to  rub 
it  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  then  spread  over  powdered  cracker,  wet  with 
milk,  and  let -it  brown  in  the  oven.  Boiled  ham  is  much  improved  by  set- 
ting it  in  the  oven  half  an  hour,  making  it  sweeter,  while  the  fat  that  tries 
out  is  useful  for  cooking. 

BoUed  Beef. — Put  it  in  salted  water,  (a  tea-spoonful  for  each  quart;)  have 
enough  to  cover  it.  Skim  well  just  before  it  begins  to  boil,  and  as  long  as 
the  scum  rises.  .  Allow  about  fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound,  or  more  ibr 
beef.    Drain  well,  and  serve  with  vegetables  boiled  sepaxiuely. 

Boiled  Fowls. — Wash  the  inside  carefully  with  soda  water,  to  remove  any 
taint  Stuff  with  seasoned  bread-crumbs,  or  cracker,  wet  up  with  eggs,  and 
sew  up  the  openings.  Put  them  in  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover,  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  till  tender.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wrap  in  a  cloth 
dredged  with  flour. 

»  — 

FOwlf.— Cut  them  up,  and- put  in  a  pot,  with  cold  water  enough 


44  THE  H0U8EKSSPEB  AND  HEALTHKSEPEB. 

to  cover.    Pot  some  salt  pork  over,  adcI  let  them  simmer  slowl/  till  very  ten- 
der and  the  water  roostlj  gone.    When  done,  stir  in  a  cnp  of  milk,  mixed 
with  two  well-beaten  eggs,  first  mixing  slowlj  some  of  the  hot  liqoor  with 
the  milk  and  eggs. 
Some  fiy  the  pork  first,  thus  increasing  the  flavor,  and  others  leave  it  oat. 

To  Boil  ft  Leg  or  Shoulder  of  Veal,  or  Mattcm,  or  Lamb. — Mutton  should 
be  cooked  more  rare  than  any  other  meat.  Make  a  stuffing  of  chopped 
bread,  seasoned,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mixed  with  one  or  two  eggs. 
Make  deep  gashes  in  the  meat,  (or,  better,  take  out  the  bone ;)  fill  the  open- 
ings with  stuffing  and  sew  them  up.  Wrap  it  tight  in  a  doth,  and  put  it  so 
as  to  be  covered  with  water,  salted  at  the  rate  of  a  tea-spoonfol  to  each  qoart. 
Liet  it  simmer  slowly  about  two  or  three  hours.  Skim  thoroughly  just  before 
it  comes  to  boiling  heat  If  needful,  add  boiling  water.  Save  the  water  for 
broth  for  next  day.  If  you  pour  cold  water  on  the  cloth  before  removing  it, 
and  let  it  stand  two  minutes,  it  improves  the  looks. 

Calf 'I  Feet — ^Wash  and  scrape  till  veiy  clean.  Boil  three  hours  in  four 
quarts  of  water  salted  with  four  even  tea-spoonfaU  of  salt  Take  out  the 
bones,  and  put  the  rest  into  a  saucepan,  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  batter. 
Wo  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  great-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  salt-spoonful 
of  pepper.  Add  three  tea-caps  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  feet  were  boiled ; 
dredge  in  some  flour,  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Gramish  with  sliced 
lemon.     (Save  the  liquor  to  make  cair»-foot  jelly.) 

Calf 'i  liyer  and  Sweetbreads. — ^These  are  best  split  open,  boiled,  and  then 
dressed  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  * 

Td  eook  Sidneys. — Wash  them  clean,  and  split  them.  Heat  them  half  an 
hour  in  a  saucepan,  without  water.  Then  wash  them  again,  and  cover  them 
with  a  pint  of  water,  having  in  it  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
pepper.  Boil  one  hour,  and  then  take  off  the  skin.  Cut  them  in  moutBfuls ; 
add  two  great-spoonfuls  of  butter,  more  salt  and  hot  w^ter,  if  needed,  and  let 
them  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 

FUlaUi  a  Favorite  Dish  in  the  South. — Fricassee  a  chicken  with  slices 
of  salt  pork,  or  v^th  sweet  butter  or  sweet  cream.  Put  the  chicken,  when 
cooked,  in  a  hake-dish,  and  cover  it  with  'boiled  rice,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  one  dozen  allspice.  Pile  the  rice,  pour  on  some  melted  batter, 
smooth  it,  and  cover  with  yelk  of  an  egg.    Bake  half  on  hour. 

To  boil  Smoked  Tongues. — Soak  in  cold  water  only  two  Hours,  as  long 
soaking  lessena  sweetness.  Wash  them,  and  boil  foar  or  five  hours,  accord- 
mg  to.  the  size.  When  done,  take  off  the  skin  and  garnish  with  parsley. 
A  tablo-spoonful  of  sagar  for  each  tongue,  put  in  the  water,  improves  tRbm. 

Id  boil  Corned  Beef.— Do  not  soak  it,  bat  wash  it,.an(l  put  it  in  hot  water. 


BOILED  MSATS.  45 

'  i  •■ 

% 

to  keep  in  the  jaices ;  allow  a  pint  for  each  poond.  Skim  jost  before  it  begins 
to  boiL  Let  it  simmer  slowlj,  and  allow  twenty-five  minntes  for  eveiy  poond. 
Keep  it  covered  with  water,  adding  boiling  hot  water,  if  needed.  It  is  mnch 
improved  for  eating  cold  bj  pressing  it  with  a  board  and  heavy  stone.  It  is 
an  excellent  piece  of  economy  to  save  the  water  to  nse  for  soap. 

Some  think  ii  an  improvement  to  pot  on  a  little  sagar,  and  pour  a  little 
vinegar  on  before  boiling.  Some  like  to  boil  turnips,  potatoes,  and  cabbage 
with  it.    In  that  case,  they  must  be  peeled,  and  the  potatoes  soaked  two 

hOUTB. 

TO  boil  Fartridgei  or  Pigeons. — Cleanse  and  rinse  the  insides  with  soda- 
water,  and  then  with  pure  water.  Wrap  them  in  a  damp  floured  cloth ;  put 
them  into  boiling  water  which  is  salted  at  the  rate  of  a  heaping  tea-spoonful 
to  a  quart ;  also,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  pqpper. 
Simmer  them  twenty -minuies  to  half  an  hour.  When  done,  make  a  sauce  4>f 
butter  rubbed  into  flour  and  half  a  dcup  of  milk ;  put  the  birds  into  a  dish  and 
pour  on  this  sauce.    Some  would  add  cut  parsley,  or  other  flavors. 

To  boil  Daeki. — ^Let  them  lie  in  hot  water  two  hours.  Then  wrap  in  a 
doth  dredged  with  flour;  put  them  in  cold  water,  salted  at  the  rate  of  half 
a  tea-spoonful  for  each  pint.  Add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  for  each  pint.  Let 
them  simmer  half  an  hour ;  then  take  them  up,  and  pour  over  them  a  sauce 
made  of  melted  butter  rubbed  into  flour,  and  seasoned  with  lemon-juice,  salt, 
and  pq>per,  and  thinned  with  gravy  or  hot  water. 

Wild  ducks  must  be  soaked  in  salt  and  water  the  night  previous,  to  remove 
the  fishy  taste,  and  then  in  the  morning  put  in  firesh  water,  which  should  be 
changed  once  or  twice. 

To  boil  a  Turk^. — ^Make  a  stuffing  for  the  craw  of  chopped  bread  and  but- 
ter, cream,  oysters,  and  the  yelks  of  eggs.  Sew  it  in,  and  dredge  flour  over 
the  turicey,  and  put  it  in  hot  #ater  to  boil,  with  a  spoonful  of  salt  in  it,  and 
eniough  water  to  cOver  it  well.  Let  it  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a  hali^  or, 
if  small,  less  time.  Skim  it  whUe  boiling.  It  will  loiok  nicer  if  wrapped  in 
a  doth  diedged  with  flour  while  cooking. 

Serve  it  with  drawn  butter,  in  which  are  put  some  oysters. 


46  THX  BOVSMKEMF^R  ASD  w»Af.TifT»wi» 


CHAPTER  Vn. 

BOAST  AND  BAKKD  MXATBL 

The  beef  of  an  ox  is  best,  and  the  next  best  is  that  of  a 
heifer.  The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  second  cat  of 
the  sirloin,  the  second  cat  of  the  ribs,  and  the  back  part  of 
the  mmp. 

The  art  of  roasting  well  consists  in  taming  the  meat  often, 
to  prevent  baming,and  basting  often,  to  make  it  juicy. 

Never  dredge  floar  into  gravies,  as  it  makes  lamps.  Strain 
all  gravies. 

BrowB  Yloor  for  Xeat  Onvitt. — ^This  Ib  used  to  thickeo  nMAt  graTiea,  to 
gire  a  good  color.  It  is  prepared  bj  puttiDg  floor  on  a  ttn  plate  in  a  hot  oren, 
•tirring  it  often  until  well  browned ;  it  mnst  be  kept,  corked,  in  a  jar,  and 
•haken  occasionallj. 

Boaat  Baat— A  piece  of  beef  weighing  ten  pounds  reqoires  aboot  two  hours 
to  roast  in  a  tin  oren  before  a  fire.  Allow  ten  minatas  for  each  pound  orer 
or  nnder  this  weight  Have  the  spit  and  oren  clean  and  bright.  They  should 
hare  been  washed  before  tbej  grew  cold  from  the  last  roasting. 

Pot  the  meat  on  the  spit  so  that  it  will  be  erenlj  balanced ;  set  the  bonj 
side  toward  the  fire ;  let  it  roast  slowly  at  first,  tuning  it  often ;  and  when  all 
sides  are  partly  cooked,  more  it  nearer  ihe  fire.  If  allowed  to  scorch  at  first, 
it  will  not  cook  in  the  middle  without  burning  the  outside. 

Baste  joften  with  the  drippings  and  with  salted  water,  (about  half  a  pint  of 
water  with  half  a  tea-spoonfol  of  salt,)  which  has  been  put  in  the  oreil- bottom. 
Just  before  taking  up,  dredge  on  some  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  salt;  then 
baste  and  set  it  near  the  fire,  turning  it  so  as  to  brown  it  all  orer  alike.  Half 
an  hour  before  it  is  done,  pour  off  the  gravy,  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  thicken  with  com  or  potato-starch,  or  flour. 

To  roast  in  a  Cook  Stove. — ^Put  the  meat  in  an  iron  pan,  with  three  or  four 
gills  of  water,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  Turn  it  occasionally,  that  it  may 
cook  evenly,  and  baste  often.  When  done,  dredge  on  some  salted  flour, 
baste  again,  and  set  it  back  till  browned. 

Boast  Pork. — Cover  a  spare-rib  with  greased  paper,  till  half  done ;  then 
dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  with  the  gravy.  Just  before  taking  it  up,  cover 
tha  forfiice  with  cracker  or  bread-cmmbe,  wet  up  with  pepper,  salt,  and  pow- 


BOAST  AND  BAKED  HBATS.  47 

derad  sai^ ;  let  it  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  and  then  baste  again.  -Skim  the 
giavy,  thicken  it  with  broWn  floor,  season  with  a  little  powdered  sage  and 
lemon-jaice,  or  vinegar;  strain  it,  and  ponr  over  the  meat.  Pork  most  be 
cooked  slow]/  and  very  thoroughlj,  and  sexred  with  apple-sance.*  Tomato 
catsup  improves  the  gravy. 

Boatt  XnttoiL — ^Tbe  1^  of  mutton  may  be  boiled.  The  shoulder  and  loin 
should  always  be  roasted. 

Pot  the  meat  in  the  oven  or  roaster,  and  then  pour  boilin^^  hot  water  over 
it,  to  keep  in  the  juices.  Baste  often  with  salt  and  water  at  first  and  then 
with  the  gravy.  With  a  hot  fire,  allow  ten  minutes  for  each  pound.  If 
there  is  danger  of  burning,  cover  the  outside  with  oiled  white  paper.  Skim 
the  gravy ;  strain  it  and  thicken  with  brown  flour.  Serve  with  add  jeDy. 
Lamb  requires  less  time  in  roasting ;  but  mutton  should  be  rare.  Hake  a 
brown  gravy,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Boast  VeaL — ^Follow  the  above  directions  for  roasting  mutton,  except  to 
allow  more  time,  as  veal  should  be  cooked  more  than  mutton.    Allow  twenty., 
minutes  to  each  pound,  and  baste  often.    Too  much  roasting  and  little  bast- 
ing spoils  veaL    To  be  served  with  apple-sauce.    It  much  improves  roast 
veal  to  cut  slits  in  it,  and  insert  bits  of  salt  pork. 

• 

Boast  Poultry. — ^No  fowl  should  be  bought  when  the  entrails  are  not  drawn ; 
and  the  insides  should  always  be  washed  with  soda-water — a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda  to  a  pint  of  water.  Rinse  out  with  fiur  water.  Stuff  with  seasoned 
brdad-ernmbe,  wet  up  with  eggs.  Sew  and  tie  the  stnfiSng  in  thoroughly. 
Allow  about  ten  minutes'  cooking  for  each  pound,  more  or  less,  according  to 
the  fire  and  size  of  the  fowL 

Put  a  grate  in  the  hake-pan,  with  a  tea-cup  of  salted  water.  Dredge  the 
fowl  with  flour  at  first,  and  baste  often.  Strain  the  gravy,  and  add  the  gib- 
lets, chopped  fine.  Biany  dislike  the  liver,  and  so  leave  it  out.  If  fowls  are 
bought  with  the  intestines  in,  or  if  they  have  been  kept  too  long,  the  use  of 
soda-water,  and  then  rinsing  with  pure  water,  will  often  prevent  the  tainted 
taste ;  so  it  is  well  to  do  this,  except  when  it  is  certain  liiat  the  fowl  is  just 
killed.    Put  a  tear^Kxmftil  of  soda  to  a  pint  of  water. 

Fot-Fif,~of  Beef;  YM^  or  Chioken. — ^The  best  way  to  make  the  crust  is  as 
follows :  Peel,  boil,  and  mash  a  dozen  potatoes ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  half  a  cup  of  milk,  or  cream.  Then  stiflen 
it  with  floor,  till  yon  can  roll  it  Be  sure  to  get  all  the  lumps  out  of  thd  po- 
tatoes.   Some  persons  leave  out  the  butter. 

Some  itdl^botter  into  the  dough  of  bread;  others  make  a  raised  biscoit, 
with  but  little  shortening ;  others  make  a  plain  soda  pie-crust  But  none 
are  so  good  and  healthftil  as  the  pouto  crust ;  so  choose  what  is  best  for  all. 

To  prepare  the  meat,  first  fiy  half  a  dozen  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  then  cot 
op  the  meat  and  pork,  and  boil  them  in  jost  water  enoogh  to  cover  them,  till 
the  mefU  is  nearly  cooked.    Then  peel  a  dozen  potatoes,  jmd  slice  theoi  thin. 


48       THE  HOUSEKEEFEB  AND  BSALTHKESPER. 

fioU  the  cnut  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cnt  it  into  oblong  pieces.  Then  pat 
alternate  layers  of  cnut, jwtatoM,  and  meat,  till  all  is  used.  The  top  and 
bottom  layer  most  be  crnst.  Divide  the  pork  so  as  to  have  some  in  each 
layer. 

Lastly,  ponr  on  the  liqaor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  until  it  just  coTers 
the  whole,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  top  cmst  is  well  cooked-r-say  half  or  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Season  the  liquor  with  salt,  at  the  rate  of  a  tea.«poon- 
fol  for  each  quart,  and  one  sixth  as  much  pepper.  If  you  have  occasion  to 
add  more  liqaor,  or  water,  it  must  be  boiling  hot^  or  the  crust  will  be  spofled. 

The  excellence  of  this  pie  dq)ends  on  haying  light  crust,  and  therefore  the 
meat  must  first  be  nearly  cooked  before  putting  it  in  the  pie ;  and  the  crust 
must  be  in  only  just  long  enough  to  cook,  or  it  will  be  clanmiy  and  hard. 

Xntton  and  Beef  Fie. — Xine  a  dish  with  a  crust  made  of  potatoes,  as  di- 
rected in  the  Chicken  Pot-Pie.  Broil  the  meat  ten  minutes,  after  pounding 
it  till  the  fibres  are  broken.  Cut  the  meat  thin,  and  put  it  in  layers,  with  thin 
slices  of  broiled  salt  pork ;  souon  with  butter,  the  size  of  a  henV  eggi  salt, 
pepper,  (and  either  wine  or  catsup,  if  liked ;)  put  in  water  till  it  nearly  covers 
the  meat,  and  dredge  in  considerable  flour ;  cover  it  with  the  paste,  and  bake 
it  an  hour  and  a  half,  if  quite  thick.  Cold  meats  are  good  cooked  over  in 
this  way.     Cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  of  the  cover. 

Ohioken^Pie. — Joint  and  boil  two^  chickens  in  salted  water,  just  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Line  a.  dish  with  potato 
crust,  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  |>ot-pie ;  then,  when  cold,  put  the  chicken 
in  layers,  with  thin  slices  of  broiled  pork,  butter,  the  size  of  a' goose  egg,  cut 
in  sm^U  pieces.  Put  in  enough  of  liquor,  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  to 
reach  the  surface ;  salt  and  pepper  each  layer ;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and 
cover  all  with  a  light,  thick  crust.  Ornament  the  top  with  the  crust,  and 
bake  about  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Make  a  small  slit  in  the  centre  of  the 
crust.    If  it  begins  to  scorch,  lay  a  paper  over  a  short  time. 


Ohidken-Fie. — ^Line  a  pudding-dish  with  slices  of  broiled  ham ;  cut  up 
a  boUed  chicken,  and  nearly  fill  the  dish,  filling  in  with  gravy  or  melted  but- 
ter ;  add  minced  onions,  if  you  like,  or  a  little  curry  powder. 

Then  pile  boiled  rice  to  fill  all  interstice^  and  cover  the  top  quite  thick. 
Bake  it  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Potato-Fie. — Take  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  butter,  and  milk, 
and  line  a  baking-dish.  Lay  upon  it  slices  of  cold  meats  of  any  kind,  with 
salt,  pepper,  catsup,  and  butter  or  gravy.  Put  on  another  layer  of  potatoes, 
and  ihea  another  of  cold  meat,  as  before.  Lastly,  on  the  top  put  a  cover  of 
potatoes. 

Bake  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  warmed  through,  and  serve  it  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  baked,  setting  it  in  or  upon  another. 

Oilf 'I  Head.— Take  out  the  brains  and  boil  the  head,  feet,  and  lights  in 


BOAST  AND  BAKED  MEATS.  49 

galted  water,  just  cDongh  to  coYei;  them,  about  two  hoars.  When  thej  have 
boiled  nearly  an  hour  and  a  half,  tie  the  brains  in  a  cloth  and  put  them  in 
to  boil  with  the  rest.  They  should  be  skinned,  and  soaked  half  an  hoar  in 
cold  water.  When  the  two  hours  have  expired,  take  up  the  whole,  mash 
the  brains  fine,  and  season  them  with  bread-crnmbs,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  glass 
of  port  or  claret,  and  use  them  for  sauce.  Let  the  liquor  remain  for  a  soap 
the  next  day.  It  senres  more  handsomely  to  remoTe  all  the  bones.  Serre 
with  a  gravy  of  dnwn  hotter. 

8 


60       THB  HOUSEKESPEB  AND  BSALTHKE9PXB. 


CHAPTER  Vm 

BBOILED  AND  FBIBD  MEATS    AND  BELISHES. 

« 

Broiled  Matton  or  Lamb  Chopi. — Cnt  oiT  the  skinDy  part,  which  onlj  tmts 
black  and  can  not  be  eaten.  Fat  a  little  pepper  and  salt  on  each  one,  and 
broil  by  a  quick  fire.     Matton  chops  shoold  be  rare. 

Broiled  Beefsteak. — Have  the  steak  cnt  three  quarters  of  an  inch  to  an 
inch  in  thickness.  The  sirloin  and  porter-hoase  are  the  best.  The  art  of 
cooking  steak  wUl  depend  on  a  good  fire  and  taming  often  after  it  begins  to 
drip.  When  done,  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter,  season  with  batter,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  cover  with  another  hot  platter,  and  send  to  the  table.  Use  beef-tongs, 
as  pricking  lets  out  the  jaices.     Slow  cooking  and  much  cooking  spoils  a  steak. 

Broiled  Fresh  Pork. — Cat  in  thin  slices,  broil  qnickly  and  veiy  thoroughly ; 
then  season  with -salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  sage. 

Broiled  Ham. — Cat  in  thin  slices,  and  soak  fifteen  minates  in  hot  water. 
Poar  off  this  and  soak  again  as  long.  Wipe  diy  and  broil  over  a  quick  fire,, 
and  then  pepper  it.     Ham  that  is  already  cooked  rare  is  best  for  broiling. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads. — ^The  best  way  to  cook  sweetbreads  is  to  broil  them 
thus :  Parboil  them,  and  then  pat  them  on  a  clean  gridiron  for  broiling. 
When  delicately  browned,  take  them  off  and  roll  in  melted  hotter  on  a  plate, 
to  prevent  their  being  dry  and  hard.  Some  cook  them  on  a  griddle  well 
battered,  taming  frequently ;  and  some  put  narrow  strips  of  fiit  salt  pork  on 
them  while  cooking. 

Broiled  VeaL — Cut  it  thin,  and  put  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  the  top  after 
it  is  laid  on  the  gridiron,  and  broil  both  together.  When  turning,  put  the 
pork  again  on  the  top.  When  the  veal  is  thoroughly  cooked,  brown  the  pork 
a  little  by  itself,  while  the  veal  stands  on  a  hot  dish. 

A  good  Fork  Belish. — Broil  thin  slices  of  fresh  pork,  first  pouring  on  boil- 
ing water  to  lessen  saltness.  Cut  them  in  small  mouthfuls,  and  add  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

FRIED   MEATS   AND   BELISHES. 

The  most  slovenly  and  uuhealthful  mode  of  cooking  is  fry- 
ing, as  it  usually  is  done.  If  the  fat  is  very  hot,  and  the 
articles  are  put  in  and  taken  out  exactly  at  the  right  time,  it 


BROILED  AND  FRIED  MEATS   AND  BSIJSHES.  51 

is  well  enough.  Bat  fried  fat  is  hard  to  digest,  and  most 
fried  food  is  soaked  with  it,  so  that  only  a  strong  stomach 
can  digest  it.  Almost  every  thing  that  is  fried  might  be 
better  cooked  on  a  griddle  slightly  oiled.  A  griddle  should 
always  be  oiled  only  just  enough  to  keep  from  sticking.  It 
is  best  to  fry  in  lard  not  salted,  and  this  is  better  than  but- 
ter. Mutton  and  beef  suet  are  good  for  frying.  When  th6 
lard  seems  hot,  try  it  by  throwing  in  a  bit  of  bread.  When 
taking  up  fried  articles,  drain  o£f  the  fat  on  a  wire  sieve. 

A  nice  Way  of  Cookiiig  Calfi  or  Fig's  Liver. — Cut  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick,  poor  on  boiling  water,  and  then  poar  if  off  entireljf;  then  let  the  lirer 
brown  in  its  own  joices,  turning  it  till  it  looks  brown  on  both  sides.  Take  it 
up,  and  pour  into  the  flrying-pan  enough  cold  water  to  make  as  much  grayj 
as-you  wish;  then  sliyer  in  a  very  little  onion ;  add  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg, 
and  a  bit  of  butter  to  season  it;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  back  the  liver 
for  a  minute  longer. 

Beef  liver. — Cut  it  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  pour  boiling  water  on  it, 
broil  it  with  thin  slices  of  pork  dipped  in  flour,  cut  it  in  monthfuls,  and  heat 
it  with  bntter,  p^per,  and  salt  for  three  or  four  minutes. 

Ejgg  Omelet — Beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs,  and  add  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  tea- 
spoonfhl  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Pour  into  hot  fat,  and  cook  till  just 
stiffened.  Turn  it  on  to  a  platter  brown  side  uppermost  Some  add  minced 
cooked  ham,  or  ooM  meat  chopped  and  salted.  Others  pnt  in  chopped  cauli- 
flower or  asparagus  cooked  and  cold. 

PHaled  Beef. — Sliver  smoked  bee£^  pour  on  boiling  water  to  freshen  it, 
then  pour  off  the  water,  and  frizzle  the  beef  in  bntter. 

Veal  Cheese.— Prepare  equal  quantities  of  sliced  boiled  veal  and  boiled 
smoked  tongue,  or  ham  sliced.  Pound  each  separately  in  a  mortar,  moistds- 
iog  with  butter  as  you  y>roceed.  Then  take  a  stone  jar,  or  tin  can,  and  mix 
them  in  it,  so  that  it  will,  when  cut,  look  mottled  and*  variegated.  Press  it 
hard,  and  pour  on  melted  butter.  Keep  it  covered  in  a  dry  place.  To  be 
used  at  tea  in  slices* 

A  Oodflah  Belith.— Take  thin  slivers  of  codfish,  lay  them  on  hot  coals,  and 
when  done  to  a  yellowish  brown,  set  them  on  the  table. 

Another  Way. — Sliver  the  codfish  fine,  pour  on  boiling  water,  drain  it  off, 
and  add  butter  and  a  very  little  pepper,  and  heat  them  three  or  four  minutes, 
but  do  not  let  them  fiy.  .    ^ 

Salt  Herrings. — Heat  tliem  on  a  gridiron,  remove  the  skin,  and  then  set 
them  on  the  tabic. 


52  TfiS   HOUSEKSEPSB  AND  HfiALTHELESPSB. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

PICKLES. 

• 

Do  not  keep  pickles  in  common  earthenware,  as  the  glas- 
ing  contains  lead,  and  combines  with  the  vinegar. 

Vinegar  for  pickling  should  be  sharp,  but  not  the  sharpest 
kind,  as  it  injures  the  pickles.  Wine  or  cider  vinegar  is  re- 
liable. Much  manufactured  vinegar  is  sold  that  ruins  pickles 
and  is  unhealthful.  If  you  use  copper,  bell-metal,  or  brasa 
vessels  for  pickling,  never  allow  the  vinegar  to  cool  in  them, 
as  it  then  is  poisonous.  Add  a  table-spoonful  of  alum  and 
a  tea-cup  of  salt  to  each  three  gallons  of  vinegar,  and  tie  up  a 
bag  with  pepper,  ginger-root,  and  spices  of  all  sorts  in  it,  and 
you  have  vinegar  prepared  for  any  kind  of  common  pickling, 
and  in  many  cases  all  that  is  needed  is  to  throw  the  fruit  in 
and  keep  it  in  till  wanted. 

Keep  pickles  only  in  wood  or  stone  ware. 

Any  thing  that  has  held  grease  will  spoil  pickles. 

Stir  pickles  occasionally,  and  if  there  are  soft  ones,  take 
them  but,  scald  the  vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  pickles. 
Keep  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them  well.  If  it  is  weak,  take 
fresh  vinegar,  and  pour  on  hot  i>0  not  boil  vinegar  or  spice 
over  five  minutes. 

Sweet  Piekles,  (a  great  favorite.)— One  ponnd  of  sugar,  one  qoart  of  Tine- 
gar,  two  poonds  of  frait.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  skim  well,  put  in  the  frnit  and 
let-it  boil  till  half  cooked.  For  peaches,  flavor  with  cinnamon  and  mace ; 
for  plums  and  all  dark  fruit,  use  allspice  and  cloves. 

To  piekle  TOmatoei. — As  you  gather  them,  leave  an  inch  or  more  of  stem ; 
throw  them  into  cold  vinegar.  When  yon  have  enough,  take  them  out,  and 
scald  some  spices,  tied  in  a  bag,  in  good  vinegar;  add  a  litUe  sugar,  and 
pour  it  hot  over  them. 

TO  piekle  Peaches.— Take.ripe  but  hard  peaches,  wipe  off  the  down,  stick 
a  few  cloves  into  them,  and  lay  them  in  cold  spiced  vinegar.  In  three 
months  they  will  be  sufficiently  pickled,  and  also  retain  much  of  their  nat- 
ural flavor. 


PICKLES.  53 

To  pickle  Feppen. — Take  green  peppers,  take  the  seeds  out  carefully  so 
as  not  to  mangle  them,  soak  them  nine  d^ys  in  salt  and  water,  changing  it 
erery  day,  and  keep  them  in  a  warm  place.  Stnff  them  ^*ith  chopped  cab- 
bage,  seasoned  with  doves,  cinnamon,  and  mace;  pnt  them  in  cold  spiced 
vinegar. 

Te  pieUe  Haitortioiis. — ^Soak  them  three  days  in  salt  and  water  as  yon 
collect  them,  changing  it  once  in  three  days ;  and  when  yon  have  enough, 
poor  off  the  brine,  and  ponr  on  scalding  hot  vinegar. 

To  piekle  OniOBf . — Peel,  and  boil  in  milk  and  water  ten  minutes,  dmin  off 
the  milk  and  water,  and  poor  scalding  spiced  vinegar  on  to  them. 

To  piekle  Gherkiiis.— Keep  them  in  strong  brine  till  they  are  yellow,  then 
take  them  oat  and  turn  on  hot  spiced  vinegar,  and  keep  them  in  it,  in  a 
warm  place,  till  they  tnm  green.  Then  tarn  off  the  vinegar,  and  add  a  fresh 
supply  of  hot  spiced  vinegar. 

To  piekle  Xoahroomi. — Stew  tliem  in  salted  water,  just  enough  to  keep, 
them  from  sticking.    When  tender,  ponr  off  the  water,  and  pour  on  hot 
spiced  vinegar.    Then  cork  them  tight,  if  you  wish  to  keep  them  long. 
Poison  ones  will  turn  black  if  an  onion  is  stewed  with  them,  and  then  all 
must  be  thrown  away. 

To  plekld  Cuenmbert.— Wash  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water,  being  carefol 
not  to  bruise  or  break  them.  Biake  a  brine  of  rock  or  blown  salt  (rock  is 
the  best),  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg  or  potato,  and  of  sufficient  quan> 
tity  to  cover  the  cucumbers. 

Put  them  into  an  oaken  tub,  or  stone-ware  jar,  and  pour  the  brine  over 
them.  In  twenty-four  hours,  they  should  be  stirred  up  from  the  bottom 
with  the  hand.  The  third  day  pour  off  the  brine,  scald  it,  and  pour  it  over 
the  cucumbers.  Let  them  stand  in  the  brine  nine  days,  scalding  it  every 
third  day,  as  described  above.  Then  take  the  cucumbers  into  a  tub,-rinse^ 
them  in  cold  water,  and  if  they  are  too  salt,  let  them  stand  in  it  a  few  hours. ' 
Drain  them  from  the  water,  put  them  back  into  the  tub  or  jar,  which  must 
be  washed  clean  from  the  brine.  Scald  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  them, 
and  pour  It  upon  them.  Cover  them  tight,  and  in  a  week  they  will  be^  ready 
for  use.  If  spice  is  wanted,  it  may  be  tied  in  a  linen  doth  and  put  into  the 
jar  with  the  pickles,  or  scalded  with  the  vinegar,  and  the  bag  thrown  into 
the  pickle-jar.  If  a  white  scum  rises,  take  it  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  and 
pour  it  back.  A  small  lump  of  alum  added  to  the  vinegar  improves  the 
hardness  of  the.  cucumbers. 

Fiekled  Walnuts. — ^Take  a  hundred  nuts,  an  ounce  of  doves,  an  ounce  of 
allspice,  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  an  ounce  of  race 
ginger,  an  ounce  of  horse-radish,  half  pint  of  ihustaxd-seed,  and  four  doves '' 
of  garlic,  tied  in  a  bag. 


54       THE  H0USSKSB1»SB  AKD  HSAItHKXEPEB. 

Wipe  the  nuts,  prick  with  a  pin,  and  pat  them  in  a  pot,  sprinkling  the  spice 
as  yon  lay  them  in ;  then  add  two  table-spbonfols  of  salt ;  boil  sufficient  vine- 
gar to  fill  the  pot,  and  poor  it  over  the  nuts  and  spice.  Cknrer  the  jar  dose, 
and  keep  it  for  a  year,  when  the  pickles  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Battemnts  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  if  they  are  taken  when 
green,  and  soft  enough  to  be  stuck  through  with  the  hud  of  a  pin.  Put 
them  for  a  week  or  two  in  weak  brine,  changing  it  occasionally.  Before 
putting  in  the  brine,  rub  them  about  with  a  broom  in  brine,  to  cleanse  the 
skins.    Then  proceed  aa  for  the  walnuts. 

The  Tinegar  makes  an  excellent  catsup. 

ICangoes. — ^Take  the  latest  growth  of  young  musk-melons,  cut  out  a  smalt 
piece  from  one  side  and  empty  them.  Scrape  the  outside  smooth,  and  soak 
them  four  days  in  strong  salt  and  water.  If  yon  wish  to  green  them,  put 
vine  leaves  orer  and  under,  with  bits  of  alum,  and  steam  them  awhile.  Then 
powder  clores,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  in  equal  portions,  and  sprinkle  on  the  in- 
side, and  fill  them  with  strips  of  horse-radish,  small  bits  of  calamus,  bits  of 
cinnamon  and  mace,  a  clove  or  two,  a  very  small  onion,  nasturtions,  and 
then  .American  mustard-seed  to  fill  the  crevices.  Pat  back  the  piece  cut 
out,  and  sew  it  on,  and  then  sew  the  mango  in  cotton  cloth.  Lay  all  in  a 
stone  jar,  the  cut  side  upward.. 

Boil  sharp  vinegar  a  few  minutes  with  half  a  tea-cup  of  salt,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  alum  to  three  gallons  of  vinegar,  and  turn  it  on  to  the  melons. 
Keep  dried  barberries  for  garnishes,  and  when  you  use  them,  turn  a  little  of 
the  above  vinegar  of  the  mangoes  heated  boiling  hot  on  to  them,  and  let 
them  swell  a  few  hours.  Sliced  and  salted  cabbage  with  this  vinegar  poured 
on  hot  is  very  good. 

Fine  piekled  Ciibbage. — Shred  red  and  white  cabbage,  spread  it  in  layers 
in  a  stone  jar,  with  salt  over  each  layer.  Put  two  spoonfals  of  whole  black 
pepper,  and  the  same  quantity  of  allspice,  cloves,  and  cinnamon,  in  a  bag, 
and  scald  them  in  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  the  cab- 
bage, and  cover  it  tight.     Use  it  in  two  days  after. 

An  excellent  Way  of  preparing  Tomatoes  to  eat  with  Xeat.— Peel  and 
slice  ripe  tomatoes,  sprinkling  on  a  little  salt  as  yon  proceed.  Drain  off  the 
juice,  and  pour  on  hot  spiced  vinegar. 

To  plekle  Kartinoei. — Grather  them  when  you  can  run  a  pin-head  into 
them,  and  after  wiping  them,  keep  them  ten  days  in  weak  brine,  changing  it 
every  other  day.  Then  wipe  them,  and  pour  over  boiling  spiced  vinegar. 
In  four  weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.     It  is  a  fine  pickle. 

A  convenient  Way  to  pickle  Cucumbers. — ^Pat  some  spiced  vinegar  in  a 
jar,  with  -a  little  salt  in  it.  Every  time  you  gather  a  mess,  pour  boiling  vine- 
gar on  them,  with  a  little  alum  in  it.  Then  put  them  in  the  spiced  vinegar. 
Keep  the  same  vinegar  for  scalding  alL-  When  you  have  enough,  take  all 


PICKLES.  55 

from  the  spiced  viDegar,  and  scald  in  the  alum  vinegar  two  or  three  minates, 
till  green,  and  then  pat  them  back  in  the  spiced  vinegar. 

Indiana  Pieklei. — Take  green  tomatoes,  and  slice  them.  Pat  them  in  a 
basket  to  drain  in  layers,  with  salt  scattered  over  them,  say  a  tea-cupfal  to 
each  gallon.  Next  day,  slice  one  quarter  the  quantity  of  ouions,  and. lay  the 
onions  and  tomatoes  in  alternate  layers  in  a  jar,  with  spice  intervening. 
Then  fill  the  jar  with  cold  vinegar.  Tomatoes  picked  as  they  ripen,  and  just 
thrown  into  cold  spiced  vinegar,  are  a  fine  pickle,  and  made  with  very  little 
troable. 

Id  piekle  Canlifiowar,  or  BroooolL — Keesp  them  twenty-fonr  hours  in  strong 
brine,  and  then  take  them  oat  and  heat  the  brine,  and  poor  it  on  scalding  hot, 
and  lei  them  stand  till  next  day.  Drain  them,  and  throw  them  into  spiced 
vinegar. 


56       THE  HOUSEKEBPEB  AND  HEALTHKESPSB. 


CHAPTER  X. 

SAUCES   AND    SALADS. 

Success  in  preparing  savory  meats  and  salads  depends 
greatly  on  the  different  sauces,  and  these  demand  extra  care 
in  preparation  and  in  flavoring.  The  following  is  a  sance 
that  is  a  great  favorite,  and  serves  for  some  meats,  for  fish, 
for  macaroni,  and  for  some  salads : 

mik  tnd  Egg  Sanee,  (excellent) — ^Take  eight  table-spooDfate  of  batter  and 
mix  it  with  a  table-spoonfol  of  floor,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  heat  it,  stirring 
constant]/  till  it  thickens  a  little.  Then  beat  the  jelk  of  an  egg  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  and  mix  it  well  with  the  sauce,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
boil,  but  onlj  be  rery  hot  For  fish,  add  to  the  abore  a  table^poonful  of 
vinegar  or  lemon-juice  and  a  little  of  the  peel  grated.  Some  add  parsley 
chopped ;  and  for  boiled  fowls,  add  chopped  oysters.  Fine  bread-crumbs  are 
better  than  flour  for  thickening.  For  macaroni,  make  in  the  dish  alternate 
layers  with  that  and  grated  cheese,  and  then  pour  on  this  sance  before  bak- 
ing, and  it  is  yery  fine.     Some  omit  the  cheese. 

• 
'  Drawn  Batter. — Take  six  table-spoonfuls  of  butler,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 

salt,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour  or  of  fine  bread-crumbs  worked  into  the  butter, 
and  one  tea-cup  of  hot  water.  Heat  yeiy  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boiL  Two 
hard-boiled  and  chopped  eggs  improTe  it  much.  For  fish,  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  vinegar  and  chopped  capers  or  green  nasturtion  seeds. 

Hint  Sanee  for  Boast  Lamb. — Chop  three  table-spoonfuls  of  green  mint, 
and  add  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  sugar  and  half  a  coffee-cup  of  vinegar. 
Stir  them  while  heating,  nnd  cool  before  using. 

Cranberry  Sanee. — ^Wash  well  and  put  a  tea-cup  of  water  to  every  quart 
of  cranberries.  Let  them  stew  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  take  up  and 
sweeten  abundantly.  Some  strain  them  through  a  colander,  then  sweeten 
largely  and  then  put  into  moulds.    To  be  eaten  with  fowls. 

Apple  Si^nee. — Core  nnd  slice  the  best  apples  vou  can  get,  cook  till  soft, 
then  add  sugar  and  a  little  batter.     Serve  it  with  fresh  pork  and  veal. 

Walnut  or  Bnttemnt  Catsup. — Gather  the  nuts  when  they  can  be  pierced 
with  a  pin.     Beat  them  to  a  soft  pulp  and  let  them  he  for  two  weeks  in  quite 


8AUCSS  AND  SALADS.  57 

salt  water,  saj  a  small  handful  of  salt  to  eveiy  twenty,  and  water  enough  to 
cover  them.  Drain  off  this  liqnor,  and  poor  on  a  pint  of  boiling  yinegar  and 
mix  with  the  nnts,  and  then  strain  it  out  To  each  quart  of  this  liquor  put 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  pepper,  one  of  ginger,  two  spoonfuls  of  powdered 
cloves,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  an  hour,  and  bottle  when 
cold.  See  that  the  spice  is  equally  mixed.  Do  not  nse  mushroom  catsup,  as 
the  aboTO  is  as  good  and  not  so  dangerous. 

Koek  Ciipert.— Dry  the  green  but  fall-grown  nastnrtlon  seeds  for  a  day  in 
the  sun,  then  put  them  in  jars  and  pour  on  spiced  yinegar.  These  are  good 
for  fish  sance,  in  drawn  butter. 

Salad  Dretsiiig. — Mash  fine  two  boiled  potatoes,  and  add  a  tea-spoonful 
of  mustard,  two  of  salt,  four  of  sweet-oil,  three  of  sharp  yinegar,  and  the  yelks 
of  two  well-boiled  eggs  rubbed  fine.  Mix  first  the  egg  and  potatoes,  add  the 
mustard  and  salt,  and  gradually  mix  in  the  oil,  stirring  yigorously  the  while. 
Stir  in  the  yinegar  last  Melted  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  sweet-oiL 
The  moral  a  salad  dressing  is  stirred,  the  better  it  will  be. 

Turkey  or  Chioken  Saliid,  also  a  Lettooe  Salad.— Take  one  quarter  chopped 
meat  (the  white  meat  of  the  fowl  is  the  best  for  this  purpose)  and  three  qimr- 
ten  chopped  c^ery,  well  mixed,  and  pour  oyer  it  a  sauce  containing  th^  yelks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  salt-epooofnl 
of  black  pepper,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  three  tea-spoonfbls  of  sogar, 
half  a  tea-cupful  of  yinegar,  and  three  tea^poonfnls  of  sweet-oil  or  of  melted 
butter.  2fix  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  mnstard  thoroughly,  whip  a  raw 
egg  and  add  slowly,  stir  in  the  sweet-oil  or  melted  batter,  mixing  It  well  and 
yeiy  slowly,  and  lastly  add  the  yinegar.  Garnish  with  rings  of  whites  of  eggs 
boiled  hard.  Chopped  pickles  may  be  added,  and  white  cabbage  in  place  of 
the  celery. 

Tomato  Ctitsnp. — Boil  a  peck  of  tomatoes,  strain  through  a  cohinder,  and 
thee  add  four  great-spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pontided  mace^  half  a  t^e^spoon- 
ful  of  black  pepper,  a  table-spoonful  of  powdered  doyes,  two  table-qKx>nfnls 
of  ground  mustard,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  celery  seed  tied  in  a  muslin  rag. 
Mix  all  and  boil  five  or  six  hours,  stirring  fineqnently  and  constantly  the  last 
hour.  Let  it  cool  in  a  stone  jar,  take  out  the  celery  seed,  add  a  pint  of  yine- 
gar, bottle  it,  and  keq>  it  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

3* 


58       THS  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 


CHAPTER  XL 

FISH. 

Stewed  Oyiten*— Strain  off  all  the  oyster  liqaor,  and  then  add  half  as 
mnch Crater  as  yon  haye  oysters.  Some  of  the  best  housekeepers  say  this  is 
better  than  using  the  liqUor.  Add  a  salt-spoonfol  of  salt  for  each  pint  of 
oysters,  and  half  as  mnch  pepper ;  and  when  they  begin  to  simmer,  add  half 
a  small  tea-cop  of  milk  for  each  pint  of  oysters.  When  the  edges  begin  to 
"  mffle,"  add  some  batter,  and  do  not  let  them  stand,  but  serre  immediately. 
Oysters  shonld  not  simmer  more  than  fir^  minutes  in  the  whole.  When 
cooked  too  long,  they  become  hard,  dark,  and  tasteless. 

Kried  Qystert. — ^Lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  absorb  the  liquor ;  then  dip  first 
in  beaten  egg,  and  afterward  in  powdered  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  but- 
ter to  a  light  brown.  If  fresh  lard  is  used,  put  in  a  little  salt.  Ckwk  quickly 
in  rery  hot  fat,  or  they  will  absorb  too  much  grease. 

Oyster  Frltten. — ^Drain  off  the  liquor,  and  to  ^ach  pint  of  Oysters  take  a 
pint  of  milk,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  and  flour  enough 
for  a  thin  batter.  Chop  the  oysters  and  stir  in,  and  then  fiy  in.  hot  lard,  a 
little  salted,  or  in  butter.  Drop  in  one  spoonful  at  a  time.  Some  make  the 
batter  thicker,  so  as  to  put  in  one  oyster  at  a  time  surrounded  by  the  batter. 

Soalloped  Qystara. — ^Make  alternate  layers  of  oysters  and  crushed  crackers 
wet  with  oyster  liquor,  and  mUk  warmed.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt  and 
pepper,  (some  add  a  very  little  nutmeg  or  cloves ;)  let  the  top  and  bottom 
layer  be  crackers.  Put  bits  of  butter  on  the  top,  pour  on  some  milk  with  a 
beaten  egg  in  it,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Broiled  Qysters. — ^Dip  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  broil  very  quick,  and  put  a 
small  bit  of  butter  on  each  when  ready  to  serve. 

Oyster  Omelet,  (very  fine.) — Take  twelve  large  oysters  chopped  fine.  Mix 
the  beaten  yelks  of  six  eggs  into  a  tea-cupful  of  milk,  and  add  the  oysters. 
Then  put  in  a  spoonful  of  melted  batter,  and  lastly  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Fry  this  in  hot  batter  or  salted  lard,  and  do  not  stir 
it  while  cooking.  Slip  a  knife  aroand  the  edges  while  cooking,  that  the  cen- 
tre may  cook  equally,  and  turn  it  oat  so  that  the  brown  side  be  uppermost. 

.Pickled  Qyttera. — Take  for  fifty  large  oysters  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  six 
blades  of  mace,  twelve  black  pepper-corns,  and  twelve  whole  cloves.  Heat 
the  oysters  with  the  liquor,  but  not  to  boil ;  take  out  the  ousters,  and  then 


FISH.  59 

pat  the  vinegar  and  spices  into  {he  liqnor,  boil  it,  and  when  the  oystjBrs  are 
nearly  cold,  ponr  on  the  mixture  scalding  hot  Next  day  cork  the  oysters 
tight  in  glass  jars,  and  keep  them  in  a  dark  and  cool  place.  Vinegar  is 
sometimes  made  of  snlphoric  or  pyroligneoos  acid,  and  this  destroys  the 
pickles.    Use  cider  or  wine  vinegar. 

Bout  Oiysten.— Put  oysters  in  the  shell,  after  washing  them,  npon  the 
coals  so  that  the  flat  side  is  uppermost,  to  save  the  liqnor ;  and  take  them  np 
when  they  begin  to  gape  a  little. 

Seallopi. — Dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  or  stew 
them  like  oysters. 

dams. — ^Wash  them  and  roast  them ;  or  stew  or  fry  them  like  oysters ;  or 
make  omelets  or  fritters  by  the  recipe  for  oysters. 

€3am  Chowder. — Make  alternate  layers  of  crackers  wet  in  milk,  and  dams 
with  their  liquor,  and  thin  slices  of  fried  salt  pork.  Season  with  black  pep- 
per and  salt.  Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Put  this  into  a  tureen,  hav- 
ing drained  off  some  liqnor  which  is  to  be  thickened  with  flour  or  pounded 
crackers,  seasoned  with  catsup  and  wine,  and  then  poured  into  the  tureen. 
Serve  with  pickles. 

Boiltfd  Fiih. — ^Wrap  in  a  doth  wet  with  vinegar,  floured  inside.  Boil  in 
cold  salted  water  till  the  bones  will  slip  out  easily ;  drain  and  serve  with  egg 
sanoe,  or  drawn  butter,  or  a  sauce  of  milk,  butter,  and  egg.  Try  boiling  fiBh: 
with  a  fork,  and  if  that  goes  in  easily,  it  probably  is  done. 

Broiled  Hah. — ^lit  so  that  the  backbone  is  in  the  middle ;  sprinkle  with 
salt ;  lay  the  inside  down  at  first  till  it  begins  to  brown,  then  turn  and  broil 
the  other  side.  Dress  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  is  best  to  take  out 
the  backbone. 

Baked  Hah.— Wash  and  wipe,  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper  outside  and 
inside.  Set  it  on  a  grate  over  a  baking-pan,  and  baste  in^th  butter  and  the 
drippings ;  if  it  browns  too  fast,  cover  with  white  jmipear.  Thicken  the  gravy, 
and  season  to  the  taste,  using  lemon-joice  or  tomato  catsup.  Some  put  in 
wine. 

Piekle  for  odd  Hsh. — ^To  two  quarts  of  vinegar  add  a  pint  of  the  liqnor  in 
which  the  fish  was  boiled,  a  dozen  black  pepper-corns,  a  dozen  cloves,  three 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard.  Let  them  boil  up,  and 
then  skim  so  as  not  to  take  out  the  spice. 

Cut  the  fish  into  inch  squares,  and  when  the  liquor  boils,  put  them  into  it 
till  just  heated  through.  Pack  tight  in  a  glass  jar,  and  then  pour  on  thd 
pickle;  cook  it  tUl  air-tight  This  will  keep  a  long  time.  It  is  a  great  con- 
venience for  a  supper  relish. 


60  THE   HOVSZEZEPBB  AND  HBALTHCEkFSB, 


CHAPTER  XlL 

TBOETABLSS. 

• 

Fbssh*oathebed  vegetable^  are  mnch  the  best  Soak- 
ing in  cold  water  improves  all.  Always  boil  in  MtZ^water, 
a  tea-spoonful  for  each  quart  of  water.  Do  not  let  them 
stop  boiling,  or  they  will  thus  become  watery. 

POTATOES. 

The  excellence  of  potatoes  depends  greatly  on  the  species 
and  on  the  a^e.  Much  also  depends  on  the  cooking,  and 
here  there  are  diversities  of  modes  and  opinions.  Peeling 
potatoes  before  cooking  saves  labor  at  the  time  of  taking  up 
dinner,  which  is  a  matter  of  consequence.  They  should,  af- 
ter peeling,  soak  an  hour  in  cold  water;  then  boil  them  in 
salted  water,  putting  them  in  when  the  water  boils.  Have 
them  equal  in  size,  that  all  may  be  done  alike.  Try  with  a 
fork,  and  when  tender  drain  off  the  water,  sprinkle  on  a  lit- 
tle fine  salt,  atid  set  them  in  the  oven,  or  keep  them  hot  in 
the  pot  till  wanted. 

Some  boil  with  skins  on ;  in  this  case,  pare  off  a  small  ring, 
or  cut  off  a  little  at  each  end  for  the  water  within  to  escape, 
as  this  makes  them  more  mealy.  - 

Some  make  a  wire  basket  and  put  in  the  potatoes  peeled 
and  of  equal  size ;  and  when  done,  take  them  up  and  set  in 
the  oven  a  short  time.     This  is  the  surest  .and  easiest  method. 

Old  potatoes  should  be  boiled  in  salted  water,  then  mash- 
ed with  salt,  pepper,  and  cream  or  butter. 

New  potatoes  boil  in  salted  water,  and  rub  off  the  tender 
skins  with  a  coarse  towel. 

A  go6d  Way  for  old  Potatoes.— Peel  and  soak  io  cold  water  half  an  hoar, 
then  slice  them  into  salted  water.that  is  boiling ;  when  soft,  pour  off  the  wa- 
ter, add  cream,  or  milk  and  batter,  with  salt  and  pepper,  also  dredge  in  a  very 
Jittle  floor. 

Another  way  is  to  chop  the  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  then  mix  in  milk, 
hotter,  salt,  and  pepper. 


VEGETABLES.  61 

Some  cold  potatoes  are  nice  cooked  on  a  gridiron.  A  favorite  relish  for 
tapper  is  cold  potatoes  sliced  and  dressed  with  a  salad  dressing  of  boiled  eggs, 
salt,  mustard,  oil,  and  vinegar. 

Cold  Potato  PnfEk — ^Take  cold  mashed  or  chopped  potatoes  and  stir  in  milk 
and  melted  batter.  Beat  two  eggs,  and  mix,  and  then  bake  tiU  browned.  It 
is  very  nice,  and  the  children  love  it  as  well  as  their  elders.  This  may  be 
baked  in  patties  for  a  pretty  variety.' 

To  cook  Sweet  Potatoes. — ^The  best  way  is  to  parboil  yith  the  skins  on, 
and  then  bake  in  a  stove  oven. 

Green  Com. — Hask  it ;  boil  in  salted  water,  and  eat  from  the  cob ;  or  cut 
off  the  com  and  seaison  it  with  butter  or  cream  and  salt  and  pe)>per.  If  green 
com  is  to  be  roasted,  open  it  and  take  off  the  silk,  and  then  cook  it  with  husks 
on,,  buried  in  hot  ashes ;  or  if  before  the  fire,  turn  it  often. 

Sneeotash. — Boil  white  beans  by  themselves.  Cut.  the  com  from  the  cob 
and  let  the  cobs  boil  ten  minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  the  com. 
Have  only  just  water  enough  to  cover  the  com  when  cut.  If  there  is  more 
than  a  tea-cupful  when  the  com  is  boiled  about  half  an  hour,  lessen  it  to  that 
quantity,  and  add  as  much  milk,  and  let  the  boiling  continue  till,  on  trial,  the 
com  is  soft,  and  then  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  wet  in  cold  water. 
Then  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes,  take  up  the  com,  and  add  the  beans, 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Have  twice  as  much  corn  as  beans.  S^mie 
ose'  string-beans  cut  up. 

If  you  have  boiled  com  left  on  the  cob,  cut  it  off  for  break&st,  and  add 
milk  and  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  it.  Some  say  this  is  the  best  way 
of  all  to  cook  sweet  com. 

Salfify,  or  Oyiter  Plant — Scrape,  cut  into  inch  pieces,  and  throw  into  cold 
water  awhile ;  put  into  salted  boiling  water,  just  enough  to  cov^r  them,  and 
when  tender  tum  off  the  water  and  add  milk,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
thicken  with  a  very  little  flour;  then  serve.  Or,  mash  flne,  and  add  a  beaten 
egg  and  a  little  flour ;  make  round,  flat  cakes,  and  cook  on  a  griddle. 

Egg  Plant — Cut  into  slices  an  inch  thick  and  peel.  Lay  these  in  salted 
water  an  hour ;  then  dip  into  egg,  and  rub  in  bread  or  cracker-crambs,  and 
cook  on  a  griddle. 

Carrots. — Boil  in  salted  water  till  tender,  take  off  the  skin,  slice  and  batter 
them.  They  are  improved  by  cooking  in  broth.  Some  add  chopped  onion 
and  parsley. 

Beets. — Wash,  but  do  not  cut  them  before  boiling ;  boil  till  tender,  take 
off  the  skin,  slice  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  tinegar,  and  melted  butter. 
If  any  are  left,  slice  them  into  vinegar,  for  a  pickle. 


62  THE  HOUSEKJBIEPEB  AlH)  tflCALTHKEEPBB. 

Pannipi.— Boil  in  salted  water,  take  off  the  skins,  cut  in  slices  lengthwise, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  When  cold,  chop  fine,  add  salt; 
pepper,  egg,  and  flour,  make  small  cakes,  and  cook  on  a  griddle. 

Pumpkin  and  Squaih. — Cut  in  slidte,  boU  in  salted  water  till  tender,  drain, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Baked  pumpkin,  cut  in  slices,  i< 
very  good. 

Celery.-^— Out  off  the  roots  and  green  leares,  wash,  and  keep  in  cold  water 
till  wapted.  ^ 

Badishes.— Wash,  cut  off  tops,  and  lay  in  cold  water  till  wanted. 

Onions. — Manj  can  not  eat  onions  without  consequent  discomfort ;  though 
to  most  others  they  are  a  healthful  and  desirable  vegetable.  The  disagreea- 
ble effect  on  the  breath,  it  is  said,  may  be  prevented  by  afterward  chewing 
and  swallowing  three  or  four  roasted  cofiee-beans.  Those  who  indulge  in 
this  yegetable  should,  as  a  matter  of  politeness  and  benevolence,  try  this  pre- 
caution. 

The  best  way  to  cook  onions  is  to  peel,  cut  off  top  and  tail,  put  in  cold  wa- 
ter for  awhile,  and  then  into  boiling  salted  water.  When  nearly  done,  pour 
off  the  water,  except  a  little,  then  add  milk,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  When 
onions  are  old  and  strong,  boil  in  two  or  three  waters ;  have  each  time  6ot^ 
ing  water. 

Tomatoes. — ^Pour  on  scalding  water,  then  remove  the  skins,  cut  them  up, 
and  boil  about  half  an  hour.  Add  salt,  butter  or  cream,  and  sugar.  Adding 
green  com  cut  from  the  cob  is  a  good  variety.  Some  use  pounded  or  grated 
stale  bread-crumbs  to  thicken.  Some  slice  without  peeling,  broil  on  a  gridi- 
ron, and  then  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Some  peel,  slice,  and  put 
in  layers,  with  seasoning  and  bread-crunibs  between,  and  bake  in  an  oven. 
If  eaten  raw,  the  skins  should  be  removed  by  a  knife,  as  scalding  lessens  fla- 
vor and  crispness.  Ice  improves  them  much.  The  add  is  so  sharp  that 
many  are  injured  by  eating  too  many. 

Coeiimber8.-^Peel  and  slice  into  cold  water,  and  in  half  an  hour  drain  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar.  Some  slice  them  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  into  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover  them,  and  in  fifteen  minutes  drain 
through  a  colander,  and  season  with  batter,  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar. 

Cti))bage  and  Cauliflower. — Take  off  the  outer  leaves  and  look  for  any  in- 
sects to  be  removed,  and  let  it  stand  in  cold  water  awhile.  It  should  be  cut 
twice  transversely  through  the  hardest  part,  that  all  may  cook  alike*  It  is 
more  delicate  if  boiled  awhile  in  one  water,  then  changed  to  another  boiling 
hot  water,  in  the  same  or  another  vessel.  If  you  are  cooking  corned  beef,  use 
for  the  second  water  some  of  the  meat  liquor,  and  it  improves  the  flavor. 
Drain  it  through^  colander.    Some  chop  the  cabbage  before  serving,  and  add 


YBGBTABLES.  63 

batter,  salt,  pepper,  and  Tihegar.  Others  omit  the  vinegar,  and  add  two  beat- 
en eggs  and  a  little  milk,  then  bake  it  like  a  pudding.  This  is  the  farorite 
mode  in  some  families.    Caoliflower  is  to  be  treated  like  cabbage. 

Asparagiis. — ^The  best  waj  to  cook  it  is  to  cnt  it  into  inch  pieces,  leare  oat 
the  hardest  parts,  boil  in  salted  water,  drain  with  a  colander,  and  add  pepper, 
salt,  melted  batter  or  cream,  when  taken  np.  Some  beat  ap  eggs  and  add  to 
this ;  stir  till  hardened  a  little,  and  then  serve. 

ICaearoni. — Break  into  inch  pieces  and  pat  into  salted  boiling  water,  and 
stew  till  soft — say  twenty  minntes.  Drain  it  and  pat  it  in  layers  in  a  pad. 
ding-dish,  with  grated  cheese  between  each  layer.  Add  a  little  salted  milk 
or  cream,  and  bake  aboat  half  an  hour.  Many  can  not  eat  this  with  cheese. 
In  this  case  it  is  better  to  poor  cold  soap  or  gravy  upon  it,  and  bake  withoat 
cheese. 

Varions  Wayi  of  cookiiig  Eggs. — Put  eggs  into  boiling  water  from  three 
to  trt  minntes,  according  to  taste.  A  hard-boiled  egg  is  perfectly  healthy  if 
well  masticated.  Another  way  is  to  put  them  in  a  bowl  or  an  egg-boUer, 
and  poor  on  boiling  water  for  two  or  three  minntes,  then  pour  off  the  water 
and  add  boiling  water,  and  in  five  or  six  minutes  the  eggs  will  be  cooked 
enough. 

To  make  a  plain  omeUt,  beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs,  add  a  cup  of  milk^ 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  stir  in  the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Cook  in  a  frying-pan  or  griddle,  with  as  little  butter  or  fat  as  possible.  Let 
it  cook  about  ten  minutes,  and  then  take  up  with  a  spad,  or  lay  a  hot  dish 
over  and  turn  the  omelet  on  to  it.  This  is  improved  by  mixing  in  chopped 
ham  or  fowL    Some  put  sugar  in,  but  it  is  more  apt  to  bum. 

A  bread  omelet  is  made  as  above,  with  bread-crumbs  added,  and  is  very 
good. 

An  apple  omelet  is  made  as  above,  with  mashed  apple-sauce  added,  and 
this  also  is  very  good.    Jelly  may  be  used  instead  of  apple. 


64       THB  HOUSEKEEPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPSB. 


CHAPTER  Xm. 

FAMILY   BBBAD. 

The  most  important  article  of  food  is  good  family  bread, 
and  the  most  healthful  kind  of  bread  is  that  ma'de  of  coarse 
floar  and  raised  with  yeast.  All  that  is  written  against  the 
healthfalness  of  yeast  is  owing  to  sheer  ignorance,  as  the 
most  learned  physicians  and  chemists  will  affirm. 

Certain  recent  writers  on  hygiene  are  nltra  and  indiscrim- 
inating  in  regard  to  the  nse  of  unbolted  donr.  The  simple 
facts  about  it  are  these :  Every  kernel  of  wheat  contains 
nutriment  for  different  parts  of  the  body,  and  in  about  the 
right  proportions.  Thus,  the  outside  part  contains  that  which 
nourishes  the  bones,  teeth,  h^ir,  nails,  and  the  muscles.  The 
germ,  or  eye,  contains  what  nourishes  the  brain  and  nerves ; 
and  the  central  part  (of  which  fine  flour  is  chiefly  made)  con- 
sists of  that  which  forms  fat,  and  furnishes  fuel  to  produce 
aninial  heat,  while  in  gentle  combustion  it  unites  with  oxy- 
gen in  the  capillaries.  When  flrst  ground,  the  flour 'con- 
tains all  the  ingredients  as  in  the  kernel.  The  first  bolting 
alters  the  proportions  but  very  little,  forming  what  is  called 
middlings.  The  second  bolting  increases  the  carbonaceous 
propoition,  making  ^n6  flour.  Tlie  third  boltiug  makes  the 
snpei-fine  flour,  and  removes  nearly  all  except  the  carbona- 
ceous portion,  which  is  fitted  only  to  form  fat  and  generate 
animal  heat.  No  animal  could  live  on  Superfine  flour  alone 
but  for  a  short  time,  as  has  been  proved  by  experiments  on 
dogs. 

But  meats,  vegetables,  fruit,  eggs,  milk,  and  several  other 
articles  in  family  diet  contain  the  same  elements  as  wheat, 
though  in  different  proportions ;  so  that  it  is  only  an  exclti- 
jsive  use  of  fine  flour  that  is  positively  dangerous.  Still  there 
is  no  doubt  that  a  large  portion  of  young  children  using 
white  bread  for  common  food,  especially  if  butter,  sugar,  - 
and  molasses  arc  added,  have  their  teeth,  bones,  and  tnuscles 


FAMILY  BBEAD.  d5 

Dot  properly  nourished.  And  it  is  a  most  unwise,  uneconopi- 
ical,  and  unbealthful  practice  to  use  flour  deprived  of  its 
most  important  elements  because  it  is  white  and  is  fashion- 
able. It  would  be  much  cheaper,  as  well  as  more  healthful, 
to  use  the  middlings^  instead  of  fine  or  superfine  flour.  It 
would  be  still  better  to  use  unbolted  flour,  except  where 
delicate  stomachs  can  .not  bear  it,  and  in  that  case  the  mid- 
dlings would  serve  nearly  as  well  for  nutrition  and  give  no 
trouble. 

Some  suppose  that  bread  wet  with  milk  is  better  than  if 
wet  with  water,  in  the  making.  Many  experienced  house- 
keepers say  that  a  little  butter  or  lard  in  warm  water  makes 
bread  that  looks  and  tastes  exactly  like  that  wet  with  milk, 
and  that  it. does  not  sppil  so  soon. 

Experienced  housekeepers  say  also  that  hre2Ld^  if  thorough- 
ly kneaded^msLj  be  put  in  the  pans, and  then  baked  as  soon  as 
light  enough,  without  the  second  or  third  kneading,  which  is 
often  practiced.  This  saves  care  and  trouble,  especially  in 
traiubg  new  cooks,  who  thus  h«ive  only  one  chance  to  make 
mistakes,  instead  of  two  or  three. 

It  is  not,  well  to  use  yeast  powders  instead  of  yeast,  be- 
cause it  is  a  daily  taking  of  medicinal  articles  not  needed, 
and  often  injurious.  Cream  tartar  is  supertartntte  of  potash, 
and  soda  is  a  supercarbonate  of  soda.  These  two,  when  uni- 
ted in  dough,  form  tartrate  of  potash,  tarti*ate  of  soda,  and 
carbonate  of  soda;  while  some  one  of  the  three  tends  to  act 
chemically  and  injuriously  on  the  digestive  fluids.  Professor 
Hosford's  method  is  objectionable  for  the  same  reason,  espe- 
cially when  his  medical  aiticles  are  mixed  with  flour;  for 
thus  poor  flour  is  sold  more  readily  than  in  ordinary  cases. 
These  statements  the  best-informed  medical  men  and  chem- 
ists will  verify. 

Flour  loses  its  sweetness  by  keeping,  and  this  is  the  reason 
why  sugaris  put  in  the  recipes  for  bread.  The  best  kind  of 
flour,  when  new  and  fresh  ground,  has  eight  percent,  of  sugar; 
and  when  such  flour  is  used,  the  sugar  may  be  omitted. 

Some  people  make  bread  by  mixing  it  so  that  it  can  be 
stirred  with  a  spoon.  But  the  nicest  kind  of  bread  can  be 
made  only  with  a  gOQ<l  deal  of  .kneading. 


66  THS  HOUSEKSEPJSB  AND  Hl^ALTHKSXPEB. 


BECIPES  FOB  TEAST  AND  BREAD. 

.  The  best  yeast  is  brewers'  or  distillery,  as  this  raises  bread 
muoh  sooner  than  home-brewed.  The  following  is  the  best 
kind  of  home-made  yeast,  and  will  keep  good  two  or  three 
weeks : 

Hop  and  Potato  Teast — ^Pare  and  slice  five  Urgp  potatoes,  and  boil  them 
in  one  qnart  of  water  with  a  large  handfhl  of  common  hops  (or  a  sqoare  inch 
of  pressed  hops),  tied  in  a  moslin  rag.  When  soft,  take  ont  the  hops  and 
press  the  potatoes  through  a  colander,  and  add  a  small  cap  of  white  sogar,  a 
tea^pooufol  of  ginger,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  and  two  tea-caps  of  common 
yeast,  or  half  as  much  distilleiy.  Add  the  yeast  when  the  rest  is  only  blood- 
warm.  White  sugar  keeps  better  than  brovm,  and  the  salt  and  ginger  help 
to  preserve  the  yeast. 

Do  not  boil  in  iron  or  nse  .an  iron  spoon,  as  it  colors  the  yeast.  Keep 
yeast  in  a  stone  or  earthenware  jar,  with  a  plate  fitting  well  to  Uie  rim.  This 
is  better  than  a  jag,  as  easier  to  fill  and  to  cleanse.  '  Scald  the  jar  before 
making  new  yeast. 

The  rnle  for  quantity  is,  one  table-spoonfal  of  brewers'  or  distillery  yeast 
to  every  quart  of  fiour ;  or  twice  as  much  home-made  yeast. 

Potato  Teast  is  made  by  the  above  role,  omitting  the  hops.  It  can  be 
used  in  lai^  quantities  without  giving  a  bitter  taste,  and  so  raises  bread 
sooner.  But  it  has  to  be  renewed  much  oftener  than  hop  yeast,  and  the 
bread  loses  the  flavor  of  hop  yeast. 

Hard  Teast  is  made  with  home-brewed  yeast  (not  brewers*  or  distillery), 
thickened  with  Indian  meal  and  fine  flour  in  equal  parts,  and  then  made  into 
cakes  an  inch  thick  and  three  inches  by  two  in  size,  dried  in  the  wind  but 
hot  in  the  son.  Keep  them  tied  in  a  bag  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  where  they 
will  not  freeze.  One  cake  soaked  in- a  pint  of  warm  water  (not  hot)  is 
enough  for  four  quarts  of  flour.  It  is  a  good  pUn  to  work  in  mashed  pota- 
toes into  this  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  well  before  n^ing  it  This  makes  the 
nicest  bread.  Some  housekeepers  say  pour  boiling  vrater  on  one  third  of  the 
floor,  and  then  mix  the  rest  in  immediately,  and  it  has  the  same  effect  as 
using  potatoes. 

When  there  is  no  yeast  to  start  with,  it  can  be  made  with  one  pint  of  new 
milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  fine  salt,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour.  When  it  is 
worked,  use  twice  as  much  as  common  yeast.  This  is  called  Milk  Yeast  or 
Salt  Risings,  and  bread  niade  of  it  is  poor,  and  soon  spoils. 

When  yeast  ceases  to  look  foamy,  and  becomes  watery,  with  sediment  at 
the  bottom,  it  must  be  renewed.  When  good,  the  smell  is  pungent,  but  not 
sour.    If  sour,  nothing  can  restore  it. 

Bread  of  Fine  Floor.— Take  four  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  one  quart  of  lul^^ 


FAMILY  BBEAD.  67 

warm  water,  ia  which  are  dissolved. two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tea-spoon- 
fills  of  sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  one  pup  of  yeast.  Mix 
and  knead  very  thoroughly ^  and  have  it  as  soft  as  can  be  molded,  using  as 
little  floor  as  possible.  Make  it  into  small  loaves,  put  it  in  buttered  .pans, 
prick  it  with  a  fork,  and  when  light  enough  to  crack  on  the  top,  bake  it. 
Nothing  but  experience  will  show  when  bread  is  just  at  the  right  point  of 
lightness.. 

If  bread  rises  too  long,  it  becomes  sour.  This  is  discovered  by  making  a 
sadden  opening  and  applying  the  nose,  and  the  sourness  will  be  noticed  as 
different  from.the  odor  of  proper  lightness.  Practice  is  needed  in  this.  If 
bread  is  light  too  soon  for  the  oven,  knead  it  awhile,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Soar  bread  can  be  remedied  somewhat  by  working  in  soda  dissolved  in  wa- 
ter— about  half  a  tea-spoonful  for  each  quart  of  flour.  Many  spoil  bread  by 
too  macb  floar,  others  by  not  kneading  enough,  and  others  by  allowing  it  to 
rise  too  much. 

The  goodness  of  bread  depends  on  the  quality  of  the  flour.  Some  flour  will 
not  make  good  bread  in  any  way.  New  and  good  flour  has  a  yellowish  tinge, 
and  when  pressed  in  the  hand  is  adhesive.  Poor  flour  is  dry,  and  will  not 
retain  form  when  pressed.  Poor  flour  is  bad  economy,  for  it  does  not  make 
as  natritiooa  bread  as  does  good  floor. 

Bread  made  with  milk  sometimes  causes  indigestion  to  invalids  and  to  chil- 
dren  with  weak  digestion. 

Take  loaves  ont  of  the  pans,  and  set  them  sidewise,  and  not  flat,  on  a  table. 
Writing  in  a  doth  makes  the  bread  clammy. 

Broid  is  better  in  small  loaves.  Let  yoor  pans  be  of  tin  (or  better,  of  iron), 
eight  inches  long,  thr^  inches  high,  three  inches  wide  at  the  bottom,  and 
flaring  so  as  to  be  foor  inches  wide  at  the  top.  This  size  makes  more  tender 
ernst,  and  cots  more  neatly  than  larger  loaves. 

Oil  the  pans  with  a  swab  and  sweet  butter  or  lard.  They  should  be  well 
washed  and  dried,  or  black  and  rancid  oil  will  gather. 

An  these  kinds  of  bread  can  be  baked  in  biscuit-form  ;  and,  by  adding  wa- 
ter and  eggs,  made  into  griddle-cakes.  Bread  having  potatoes  In  it  keeps 
moist  longest,  but  toms  soar  soonest. 

Bread  of  Mlddlingi  or  Unbolted  Floor.— Take  four  quarts  of  coarse  flour, 
one  quart  of  warm  water,  one  cop  of  yeast,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  one 
spoonful  of  melted  lard  or  batter,  two  cops  of  sugar  or  molasses,  and  half  a 
tea-«poonful  of  soda.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  m  pans  the  same  as  the 
bread,  of  flne  flour.  It  is  better  to  be  kneaded  rather  than  made  soft  with  a 
spoon. 

Bread  raiaed  with  Water  only. — Many  persons  like  bread  made  either  of 
fine  or  coarse  flour,  and  raised  with  water  only.  Success  in  making  this  kind' 
depends  on  the  proper  quantity  of  water,  quick  beating,  the  heating  of  very 
small  pans,  and  'i'ery  quick  baking.  There  are  cast-iron  patties  made  for  this 
purpose,  and  Jalso  small,  coarse  earthen  cups.  The  following  is  the  rule,  but 
it  most  be  modified  by  trying : 


68  THE  1I0U6EKSSPSB  AND  HBALTHESEP&B. 

Recipe, — To  one  quart  of  unbolted  flour  pot  tboat  one  quart,  or  a  little 
less,  of  hot  water.  Beat  it  yeiy  qoicklj,  put  it  in  hot  pans,  and  htke  in  a  hot 
oven.  White  floor  maj  be  osed  in  place  of  coarse,  and  the  qoantity  ascer- 
tained by  trial  When  right,  there  is  after  baking  little  except  a  cmst,  which 
is  sweet  and  crisp. 

• 

lBLj9  and  Indian  Bramd.— The  Boston  or  Eastern  Brown  Bread  is  made 
tfaos :  One  qoart  of  lye,  one  qoart  of  oom-meal,  one  cop  of  molasses,  half  a 
cap  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as  moch  home-brewed ;  one  tea-spoonfol  of 
soda,  and  one  tea-spoonfol  of  salt.  Wet  with  hot  water  till  it  is  stiff  as  can 
be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  This  is  pot  in  a  large  broym  pan  and  baked  foor  or 
five  hoors.    It  is  good  toasted,  and  improved  by  adding  boiled  squash. 

O^hird  Bread. — ^This  is  made  with  equal  parts  of  rye,  corn-meal,  and  un- 
bolted flour.  To  one  qoart  of  warm  water  add  one  tea-spoonfol  of  salt,  half 
a  cup  of  distillery  or  twice  as  much  home-brewed  yeast,  and  half  a  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, and  thicken  with  equal  parts  of  these  three  kinds  of  floor.  Ji  is  very 
good  for  a  variety. 

Bye  Bread. — ^Toke  a  quart  of  warm  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half*  a  cup 
of  molasses,  and  a  cup  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as  much  of  distillery. 
Add  flour  till  yon  can  knead  it,  and  do  it  very  thoroughly. 

Oat-Meal  Bread. — Oat-meal  is  sometimes  bitter  from  want  of  care  in  pre- 
paring.   When  good,  it  makes  excellent  and  healthfol  bread. 

Take  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  great-spoonfol  of  sweet  lard  or  butter, 
two  great-spoonfols  of  sugar ;  melt  them  together,  and  thicken  with  two- 
thirds  oat-meal  and  one-third  fine  flour.     When  blood-warm,  add  half  a  cup. 
of  home-brewed  yeast  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.    Mold  into  small  cakes,  and 
bake  on  buttered  tins,  or  make  two  loaves. 

Fnmpkin  Bread  and  Apple  Bread. — ^These  are  very  good  for  a  yariety. 
Stew  and  strain  pompkins  or  apples,  and  then  work  in  either  corn-meal  or 
unbolted  floor,  or  both.  To  each  qoart  of  the  froit  add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  sogar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  cap  of  home-brewed  yeast  If  the  apples  are 
qoite  sour,  add  more  sugar.  Make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon, 
and  bake  in  patties  or  small  loaves.     Children  like  it  for  a  change. 

Com-Maal  Bread.— Always  scald  corn-meal.  Melt  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
hotter  or  sweet  lard  in  one  quart  of  hot  water;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and 
a  tea-cup  of  sugar.  Thicken  with  com-meol,  and  one-third  as  much  fine 
flour,  or  unbolted  flour,  or  middlings.  Two  well-beaten  eggs  improve  it. 
Make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  easily  stirred  with  a  spoon,  or,  as  some  would  ad- 
vise, knead  it  like  bread  of  white  flour. 

If  raised  with  yeast,  put  in  a  tea-cup  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as 
roach  of  distillery.  If  raised  with  powders,  mix  two  tea-spoonfols  of  cream 
tartar  thorcughly  with  the  meal,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  the  water.    ■ 


FAMILY  BREAD.     .  69 

Sweet  SoUi  of  CSom-MeaL— Mix  half  com-meal  and  half  fine  or  unbolted 
floor ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  then  wet  it  up  with  sweetened  water,  raise  it  with 
jeast,  and  hake  in  small  patties  or  cnps  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

Soda  Bifonit. — ^In  one  qnart  of  flour  mix  very  thoroughly  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  cream  tartar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Dissolve  in  a  pint  of  warm  water 
one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter  or  lard. 
Mix  quickly ;  add  flour  till  jon  can  roll,  but  let  it  hg  as  soft  as  possible. 
Bake  in  a  quick  OTen,  and  as  soon  as  possible  after  miling. 

ToMt  Bisenit— Take  a  pint  of  raised  dough  of  fine  flour :  pick  it  in  small 
pieces ;  add  one  welL-beaten  egg*  two  great-spoonfuls  of  butter  or  lard,  and 
two  great-spoonftils  of  sugar.  Work  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes ;  add  floor 
to  roll,  and  then  cut  in  round  cakes  and  bake  on  tins,  or  mold'  into  biscuits. 
Let  them  stand  till  light,and  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

If  you  haye  no  dough  raised,  make  biscuit  as  jou  would  bread,  except  add- 
ing more  shortening. 

Potato  Biienit — ^Boil  and  press  through  a  colander  twelre  mealy  potatoes ; 
any  others  are  not  good.  While  warm,  add  one  cnp  of  butter,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  four  great-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  cup  of  yeast  Mix  in 
white  or  coarse  flour  till  it  can  be  well  kneaded.  Mold  into  small  cakes ; 
let  them  stand  till  light,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  the  best  kind, 
especially  if  made  of  coarse  floor. 

Bimi. — ^These  are  best  made  by  the  rule  for  potato  biscuit,  adding  twice 
as  much  sugar.  When  done,  rub  over  a  mixture  of  half  milk  and  half  mo- 
lasses, and  it  improres  looks  and  taste. 


Ky  THE   HOUSEK£SPEB  AND  HEALTH^ESPSS. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

BREAKFAST  AND  8UPPEB. 

What  shalLwe  have  for  breakfast  to-morrow  ?  is  the  con- 
stant question  of  trial  to  a  housekeeper,  and  it  is  the  aim  of 
the  present  chapter  to  meet  this  want  by  pi'esenting  a  good 
and  successive  variety  of  articles  healthful,  economical,  and 
easily  prepared. 

Some  of  the  best, housekeeper  have  taken  this  method: 
they  provide  a  good  supply  of  the  following  articles,  to  be 
used  in  succession  —  rice,  corn-meal,  rye  flour,  jirheat  grits, 
unbolted  wheat,  cracked  wheat,  pearl  wheat,  oat  grits,  oat- 
meal, and  hominy,  with  which  they  make  a  new  article  for 
every  day  in  the  week.  Some  one  of  these  is  selected  for 
either  a  dinner  vegetable  or  dessert,  or  for  a  dish  at  tea,  and 
the  remainder  used  for  the  next  ^noming's  breakfast. 

The  following  will  "indicate  the  methods: 

Oora-Meal. — Take  four  large  cups  of  corn-meal,  and  scald  it  In  cUi  cases, 
scald  coirn-meal  before  using  it.  Add  half  a  cup  of  fine  flour,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  or  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  of  salt 
Make  a  batter,  and  boil  an  hour  or  more,  stirring  often ;  or,  better,  cook  in 
a  tin  pail^set  in  boiling  water.  Use  it  as  mush,  with  butter,  sugar,  and  milk 
'  for  supper.  Next  morning,  thin  it  with  hot  water :  add  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  bake  either  as  muffins  or  griddle-cakes.  '' 

Hominy. — Soak  and  then  boil  a  quart  of  hominy  with  twd^  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  Use  it  for  dinner  as  a  vegetable,  or  for  supper  with  sugar 
and  milk  or  cream.  Next  rooming  use  the  remainder,  soaked  in  water  or 
milk,  with  two  eggs  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  Bake  as  muffins  or  griddle- 
cakes,  or  cut  in  slices,  dipped  in  flonr  and  fried.  Farina  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

Bice. — Pick  over  one  pint  of  rice ;  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt  and  three 
quarts  of  bailing  water.  Then  boU  fifteen  minutes ;  then  uncover ;  let  it 
steain  fifteen  minutes.  This  to  be  used  for  a  vegetable  at  dinner,  or  for  a 
tea-dish,  with  butter  and  sugar.  At  night,  soak  the  remainder  in  as-  much 
milk  or  water,  and  next  morning  add  as  much  fine  or  unbolted  flour  as  there 


BREAKFAST  AND  StTPFEB.  f  1 

Wit  lice,  three  eggs,  a  tea^spoonfnl  of  salt,  and  half  a  tea-spoonfiil  of  soda. 
Thin  widi  water  or  niilk,  and  bake  as  muffins  or  griddle-cakes. 

Tilt  moat  eMmondoal  BreakiMt  Biih,  (healthfdl  klso).  — Keep  a  jar  for  rem- 
Hants  of  bread,  both  coarse  and  fine,  for  potatoes,  remnants  of  hominj,  rice, 
grits.  Clacked  wheat,  oat-meal,  and  all  other  articles  used  on  table.  Add  all 
remnants  of  milk,  whether  boot  or  sweet,  and  water  enoagh  to  soak  all,  so 
as  to  be  soft,  but  not  thin.  When  enoagh  is  collected,  add  enongh  water  to 
make  a  batter  for  griddle-cakes,  and  pnt  in  enoagh  soda  to  sweeten  it  Add 
two  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  two  eggs  for  each 
quart,  and  jon  inake  «i  excellent  dish  of  matexial,  most  of  it  usually  wasted. 
Thicken.it  a  little  with  fine  flour,  and  it  makes  fine  waffles. 

Biienits^  soar  IGlk  and  white  or  unbolted  Flour.— One  pint  unbolted 
flour. 

One  spoonful  of  sugar.  ■       '         ' 

One  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

Melt  a  spoonfiil  of  butter  in  a  little  of  the  sour  milk ;  then  mix  all,  tind 
just  before  setting  in  the  oven,  add  very  qyiMy  and  very  thoroughly  a  tea- 
spoonfiil  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  teacup  of  Water.  This  should  be  done 
last  and  quickly,  so  that  the  carbonic  acid  gas  produced  by  the  union  of  the 
soda  and  the  add  of  the  milk  (lactic)  may  not  escape.  Use  half  a  tearcup  of 
fine  flour  when  molding  into  biscuits. 

Fearl  Wheat  or  Graeked  Wheat— Boil  one  pint  in  a  pail  set  in  boiling  wa- 
ter tin  quite  soft,  but  so  as  not  to  lose  its  form.  Add  a  tea-spoonful  of  su- 
gar, and  as  much  salt;  also  water,  when  needed.  It  must  boU  a  long  time. 
Eat  a  part  for  sapper,  with  sugar  and  cream,  and  next  morning. add  two  eggs, 
a  great-epoonfnl  of  sugar,  and  fine  flour  enough  to  make  it  suitable  for  muffin- 
rings  or  drop-cakes. 

Bye  and  CSom^lCeaL — Put  into  a  pint  and  a  hidf  of  boiling  water  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  great-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  three  great- 
spooofuls  of  corn-meal  or  unbolted  wheat  Thicken  with  rye  flour,  and  then 
add  two  weO-beaten  eggs.     Bake  in  muffin-rings  or  as  droprcakes. 

OatJIeaL — ^Take  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  pour  it  on  to  one  pint  of 
oat-meaL  Add  a  great-spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  tea-spoonfiil  of  salt,  and  two 
great-spoonfiils  of  sugar.  Stir  fiist  and  thoroughly ;  then  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  To  be  eaten  as  mush  for  supper ;  and  next 
morning  thin  it,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings. 

Several  of  the  above  articles  are  good  with  only  salt  and 
water;  and  many  persons  would  like  them  better  with  the 
butter,  sugar,  and  eggs  omitted. 


72       THE  H0U8BKSSPSB  AND  HXALTHKEEPSB. 

Wheat  Mnffini. — One  pint  of  milk,  and  two  eggs- 
One  table-spoonfol  of  yeast,  and  a  salt-spoonfol  of  salt.    One  table-spoon- 

f al  of  bntter. 

Mix  these  ingredients  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  hatter.  Let  it 
rise  foor  or  fire  hoors,  and  bake  in  moffin-rings.  This  can  be  made  of  un- 
bolted flour  or  grits,  adding  two  great-spoonfnls  of  molasses,  and  it  is  yery 
fine.    Make  it  so  thick  that  a  table-spoon  will  stand  erect  in  it. 

Sally  Lunn,  improred. — Seven  tea-cups  of  unbolted  flour,  or  fine  flour. 

One  pint  of  water. 

Half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar. 

One  pinch  of  salL 

Three  well-beaten  ^^. 

Two  table-spoonfols  of  brewers*  yeast,  or  twice  as  much  of  home-brewed. 

Pour  into  square  buttered  pans,  and  let  it  rise  two  or  three  hours  with 
brewers*  yeast ;  with  home-brewed,  fire  hours  are  required.  It  is  still  better 
baked  in  patties. 

Cream  Griddla-Oakei. — One  pint  of  thick  cream. 

One  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

One  table-spoonful  of  sugar. 

Three  well-beaten  eggs. 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  unbolted  or  of  fine  flour,  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

Bojal  Omiapets. — ^Three  tea-cups  of  raised  dough. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

Half  a  tearcup  of  white  sugar,  mixed  with  three  wdl-beaten  eggs. 

Bake  in  two  buttered  pans  for  half  an  hour. 

r 

Muffins  of  fine  Plonr  or  nnbolted  Flour.— One  pint  of  milk  or  water. 
One  pinch  .of  salt. 
Two  well-beaten  eggSi 
One  table-spoonful  of  yeast 

Make  a  thick  batter  of  fine  flour  or  unbolted  flour,  and  let  it  rise  four  or 
five  hours.    Bake  in  muffin-rings. 

Unbolted  Flour  Waffles.— One  pint  of  unbolted  flour. 
One  pint  of  souTmilk,  or  buttermilk,  or  water. 
Half  a  tea-spOonf  ul  of  soda,  or  more  if  needed,  to  sweeten  the  milk. 
'  Three  well-beaten  eggs. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  of  'sugar. 

Brop^Oakei  of  line  Wheat  or  of  Bye. — One  pint  of  milk  or  water. 
One  pindi  of  salt. 
Two  table-vpoonfnls  of  sugar. 
Three  well-beaten  eggs. 

Stir  in  rye,  or  fine  or  unbolted  flour  to  a  thick  batter,  and  bake  in  cups  or 
patties  half  an  hour. 


BBBAKFAST  AND  8UPPSB.  73 

fltehem'i  Etad  Corn-Cake. — One  qoart  of  sifted  com-niea],  scalded. 

One  tea-spoonful  of  salt 

Three  pints  of  scalded  sweet  milk  or  water. 

Half  a  tea-spoonfnl  of  soda  in  two  great-spoonfuls  of  warm  water. 

Half  a  tea-cap  of  sogar. 

Eight  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  separately,  and  added  the  last  thing. 

Make  the  cakes  an  inch  thick  in  buttered  pans  before  baking,  and,  if  baked 
right,  they  will  puff  np  to  doable  the  thickness,  like  sponge-cake,  and  are  very 
fine.  , 

Bioe  WafiLei.— One  pint  of  milk.   Half  a  tea^enp  of  solid  boiled  rice,  soaked 
three  boors  in  the  milk. 
Two  cops  of  wheat  floor  or  rice  floor. 
Three  well- beaten  eggs.    Bake  in  waffle-irons. 
The  rice  most  be  salted  enough  when  boiled. 

ABOther  Bioe  Dish. — One  pint  of  rice,  well  cleaned. 

Three  quarts  of  cold  water. 

Three  tea-spoonfols  of  salt. 

Bofl  it  twenty  minutes;  then  poor  off  the  water,  add  milk  or  cream,  and 
let  it  boil  ten  minotes  longer,  till  qoite  soft  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  then 
cot  it  in  slices  and  fiy  it  on  a  griddle.  It  can  also  be  madie  into  griddle-cakes 
or  moffins  by  the  preceding  recipe. 

A  good  and  easy  Way  to  nie  oold  Biee. — Heat  a  pint  of  bofled  rice  in  milk ; 
add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  hotter,  and  sugar ;  let  it  boil  up  once^ 
and  then  grate  on  nutmeg. 

fiaekwhoat-Cakefl.->-One  quart  of  bockwheat. 

One  tea-spoonful  of  salt 

Two  table-spoonfoLi  of  distillery  yeast,  or  four  of  home-brewed. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  mojasses. 

Wet  the  flour  with  warm  water,  and  then  add  the  other  articles.  Keep  this^ 
warm  through  the  night  If  it  sours,  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  warm 
water.    These  cakes  hare  a  handsomer  brown  if  wet  with  milk  or  part  milk.. 

Fine  Cottage  Cheeie.— Let  the  milk  be  turned  by  rennet,  or  by  setting  it  in 
a  warm  place.  It  must  not  be  heated,  as  the  oily  parts  will  then  pass  off,  and 
the  richness  is  lost  When  fully  turned,  put  in  a  coarse  linen  bag,  and  hang 
it  to  drain  several  hours,  till  all  the  whey  is  out  Then  mash  it  fine,  salt  it 
to  the  taste,  and  thin  it  with  good  cream,  or  add  but  little  cream,  and  roll  it 
into  balls.    When  thin,  it  is  very  fine  with  preserves  of  sugared  fruit 

It  also  makes  a  fine  pndding,  by  thinning  it  with  milk,  and  adding  eggs  and 
sugar,  and  spice  to  the  taste,  and  baking  it  Many  persons  use  milk  when 
turned  to  ho»nj/-4labber  for  a  dessert,  putting  on  sugar  and  spice.  Children 
are*  fond  of  it 

4 


74  THE   H0U6EKEEPEB  AND  HEALTH^EEPEB. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

•PUDDINGS   AND  PIES. 

Whebb  sugar  is  made  by  slaves,  the  little  children  feed 
\  constantly  on  it,  and  grow  fat  and  healthy.  But  they  are 
nearly  naked,  live  out-of-doors,  exercise  constantly,  and  have 
nothing  to  do  but  play.  Thus  their  lungs  and  skin  gain  the 
healthful  and  punfying  action  of  the  air  and  the  sun,  and  the 
excess  of  carbonaceous  food  is  rendered  harmless.  But  for 
those  whose  skin  never  meets  the  sun,  rarely  meets  the  ^ir, 
and  only  now  and  then  some  water,  a  very  different  regimen 
.  is  needful.  Sugar,  molasses,  butter,  and  fats  are  chiefly  car- 
bonaceous, and  therefore  .demand  a  large  supply  of  oxygen 
through  lungs  and  skin.  And  yet  our  custom  is  to  use  fine 
flour,  which  is  chiefly  carbon ;  butter  and  cream,  chiefly  car- 
bon; sweet  cakes,  chiefly  carbon;  sweetmeats  and  candy, 
chiefly  carbon ;  and  worst  of  all,  pie-crusts,  chiefly  carbon, 
and  the  most  difficult  of  all  food  for  digestion. 

But  the  love  for  sweet  food  is  common  to  all,  and  de- 
mands gratification.  A.11  that  is  required  is  moderation  and 
temperance.  For  these  reasons,  a  large  supply  is  here  pro- 
vided of  cakes  and  puddings,  which  are  not  ^ch,  and  yet  are 
as  highly  relished  as  richer  food.  As  pies  are  the  most  un- 
healthful  of  all  food,  some  instruction  .and  but  few  recipes 
are  given,  lest,  if  entirely  omitted,  the  book  v^ould  not  be 
read  so  widely,  and  other  more  unhealthful  ones  be  used. 

The  puddings  here  offered  afibrd  a  great  variety  for  des- 
serts, are  made  with  far  less  labor  than  pies,  and  are  both 
more  economical  and  more  healthful.  They  also  can  be  made 
more  ornamental  and  attractive  in  appearance,  and  equally 
good  to  the  taste:  It  is  hoped,  therefore,  that  the  conscien- 
tious housekeeper  will  not  tempt  her  family  to  eat  unhealth- 
ful food  when  such  an  abundance  is  offered  that  is  at  once 
economical  of  labor,  time,  eipense,  and  health.  The  first  rec- 
ipe for  pudding  can  be  varied  in  many  ways,  and  has  the 


PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  76 

advantage  which  heretofore  has  recommended  pies,  namely, 
that  several  can  be' made  at  once,  and  kept  on  hand  as  equal- 
ly good  either  cold  or  warmed  over.  It  is  aUo  economical 
and  convenient,  as  not  requiring  eggs  or  milk. 

Ihd  Queen  of  all  Pnddingi. — Soak  a  tea-cop  of  tapioca  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt  in  three  tnmblerfols  of  warm,  not  hot,  water  for  an  hoar  or  two,  till 
softened.  Take  awaj  the  skins  and  cores  of  apples  widiodt  dividing  them, 
pot  them  in  the  dish  with  sugar  in  the  holes,  and  spice  if  the  apples  are  with- 
out flayor :  not  otherwise.  Add  a  cap  of  water,  and  bake  till  the  apples  are 
softened,  taming  them  to  prevent  diying,  and  then  pour  over  the  tapioca, 
«nd  hake  a  long  time^  tiU  all  looks  a  brownish  tbllow.  Eat  with  a  hard 
sauce.  '  Do  not  £ul  to  bake  a  long  time. 

This  can  be  extensively  varied  bjr  mixing  chopped  apples,  or  quinces,  or 
oranges,  or  peaches,  or  any  kind  of  berries  with  the  tapioca ;  and  then  sugar 
most  be  added  according  to  the  acid  of  the  frait,  though  some  would  prefer 
it  omitted  when  the  sauce  is  used. 

The  beauty  may  be  increased  by  a  cover  of  sugar  beaten  into  the  whites  of 
eggs,  and  then  turned  to  a  yellow  in  the  oven.  Several  such  puddings  can  be 
made  at  once,  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  when  wanted  warmed  over;  many 
relish  it  better  when  very  cold.  Sago  can  be  used  instead  of  tapioqu  When 
no  sago  or  tapioca  are  at  hand,  the  following  recipe  for  flour  pudding  may 
be  used,  baking  a  long  time : 

• 

nonr  Paddings. — Take  four  table-spoonfuls  of^our,  half«  tea-spoonful - 
of  salt,  a  pint  of  water  or  milk,  three  eggs,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  soda.  Mix 
aind  beat  very  thoroughly,  and  bake  as  soon  as  done,  or  it  vnll  not  be  light 
It  must  bake  till  the  middle  is  not  lower  than  the  rest.  Eat  with  liquid 
sauce.  This  can  be  cooked  in  a  covered  tin  pan  set  in  boiling  water.  This 
Is  enough  for  a  fiimily  of  fire.     Change  the  quantity  according  to  the  £unily. 

This  may  be  made  richer  by  a  spoonful  of  buttef,  more  sugar,  and  some 
flavoring. 

It  will  be  lighter  not  to  beat  the  eggs  separately.  If  a  bag  is  used  to  boil, 
rub  flour  or  butter  on  the  inside,  to  previent  sticking. 

Tloor  and  Froit  Paddingi. — Add  to  the  above,  chopped  apples  or  any  kind 
of  berries.  Chopped  apples  and  quinces  together  are  fine  when  dried.  When 
berries  are  used,  a  third  more  flour  is  needed  for  those  rery  juicy,  and  leu 
for  cherries.    Put  in  fruit  the  last  thing. 

Bosk  and  IGlk. — Keep  all  bits-  of  bread,  dry  in  the  oven,  and  poond  them, 
patting  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  to  a  pint.  This  eaten  with  good  milk  is 
what  is  especially  relished  by  children,  and  named  '*  rusk  and  milk.** 

Bosk  Paddingi. — Mix  equal  quantities  of  msk-cmmbs  with  stewed  fruit 
or  berries,  then  add  a  very  sweet  custard,  made  with  four  or  five  «ggs  to  a 


78  THE   H0U8SKSEPBB  AND   HBAIJIiKSSPEB. 

therd  are  no  Inikips,  stir  it  gradaaUy  into  boiling  water  which  has  a  little  so- 
gar  and  more  salt  added ;  boil  till  so  thick  that  the  stick  will  stand  in  it 
Boil  slowly,  and  so  as  not  to  bom,  stirriAg  often.  Two  or  three  honrs'  boiling 
is  needed.  Poor  it  into  a  broad,  deep  dish,  let  it  grow  cold,  cat  it  into  slices 
half  an  inch  thick,  floor  them,  and  iry  them  on  a  griddle  with  a  little  lard,  or 
bake  them  in  a  store  oren. 

Stale  Bread  Podding,  (fine.)— Cat  stale  bread  in  thick  slices,  and  pot  it  to 
soak  for  seyeral  hoars  in  cold  milk. 

Then  cook  on  a  griddle,  with  some  salt,  and  eat  it  with  sugar,  or  molasses, 
or  a  sweet  sance.  To  make  it  more  delicate,  take  off  the  crosts.  It  is  still 
better  to  soak  it  in  uncooked  costard. .  Bakcor's  bread  is  best. 

TO  prepare  Bennet  IK^e.-^Pot  three  inches  square  of  cairs  rennet  to  a  pint 
of  wine,  and  set  it  away  for  use.  Three  table-spoonfols  will  senre  to  cordle  a 
qoart  of  milk. 

Bennet  Cnitard. — Pat  three  table-spoonfols  of  rennet  wine  to  a  quart  of 
milk,  and  add  foor  or  five  great-spoonfols  of  white  sogar  and  a  salt-spoonfol 
of  salt  Flavor  it  with  wine,  or  lemon,  or  rose-water.  It  most  be  eaten  in 
an  hoar,  or  it  will  torn  to  cards. 

Bird'mett  Padding. — ^Pare  tart,  well-flaTored  apples,  scoop  oot  the  coree 
withoot  dividing  the  apple,  pot  them  in  a  deep  dish  with  a  small  bit  of  mace, 
and  a  spoonfal  of  sugar  in  the  opening  of  each  apple.  Pour  in  water  enough 
to  cook  them.  When  soft,  pour  over  them  an  unbaked  custard,  so  as  just  to 
cover  them,  and  bake  till  the  custard  is  done. 

A  Minate  Padding  of  Potato  Starch.— Take  four  heaped  table-spoonfuls  of 
potato  flour,  three  eggs,  and  a  tea-spoonfal  of  salt,  and  one  quart  of  milk. 
Boil  the  niilk,  reserving  a  little  to  moisten  the  flour.  Stir  the  flour  to  a  paste, 
perfectly  smooth,  with  the  reserved  milk,  and  put  it  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  let  it  boil  till  very  thick,  which  will  be  in  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  dish  and  serve  with  liquid  sauce.  After  the 
milk  boils,  the  padding  most  be  stirred  every  moment  till  done. 

Tapiooa  Padding. — Soak  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  qoart  of 
warm  milk  and  tea-spoonfol  of  sogar,  till  soft,  then  add  two  table-spoonfols 
of  melted  sweet  lard  or  hotter,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  spice,  sogar,  and  wine 
to  your  taste.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish,  without  any  lining.  Sago  may  be 
used  in  place  of  tapioca. 

Coooa-Hnt  Pudding  (plain). — Take  one  quart  of  milk,  five  egg>f  and  one 
cocoa-nnt,  grated.  The  .eggs  and  sugar  are  beaten  together,  and  stirred  into 
the  milk  when  hot  Strain  the  milk  and  eggs,  and  add  the  cocoa-nut,  with 
nutmeg  to  the  taste.    Bake  about  twenty  minutes  Kke  puddings. 


PUDDINGS   AND  PIES.  79 

Vew-England  Sqnaili  or  Piutipkixi-Pie. — Take  a  pmnpkin  or  wmteor-sqaash, 
cot  in  pieces,  take  off  the  riiid  and  remove  the  seeds,  and  boil  it  nntil  ten- 
der, then  mb  it  through  a  sieve.  When  cold,  add  to  it  milk  to  thin  it,  and 
to  each  quart  of  milk  five  well-beaten  eggs.  Sagar,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to 
joar  taste.  The  qoantitj  of  milk  mnst  depend  upon  the  size  and  qnalitj  of 
the  squash. 

These  pies  require  a  moderate  heat,  and  must  be  baked  until  the  centre  is 
firm. 

Bipe  Fniit  Plot— Peaeh,  Cherry,  Plum,  Currant,  and  Strawberry.— Line 
your  dish  with  paste.  After  picking  over  and  washing  the  fruit  carefully 
(peaches  mnst  be  pared,  and  the  rest  picked  from  the  stem),  place  a  layer  of 
fhnt  and  a  layer  of  sugar  in  your  dish,  until  it  is  well  filled,  then  cover  it  with 
paste,  and  trim  the  edge  neatly,  and  prick  the  cover.  Fruit-pies  require  about 
an  hour  to  bake  in  a  thoroughly-heated  oven. 

lEoek  Cream.— rBeat  three  eggs  well,  and  add  three  heaping  tea-spoonfuls 
of  sifted'  flour.  Stir  it  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  milk,  add  a  salt-spoon 
of  salt,  and  sogar  to  your  taste.     Flavor  with  rose-water  or  essence  of  lemon. 

This  can*  be  used  for  cream-cakes  or  pastry. 

▲  Podding  of  Ftoit  and  Bread  Crombi . — Mix  a  pint  of  dried  and  pounded 
bread-crumbs  with  an  equal  quantity  of  any  kind  of  berries,  or  of  dried  and 
q^opp^  sour  apples.  Add  three  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  three  .spoonfuls  of 
.  IBne.floor,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Bake  on  a  griddle  or  in  an  oven  in 
mn£Bn-ring8,  or,  when  made  thinner,  as  griddle-cakes.  If  dried  fruit  is  used, 
more  milk  is  needed  than  for  fresh  berries. 

This  may  also  be  boiled  for  a  pudding.  Flour  the  pudding-doth  and  tie 
tight,  as  it  will  not  swell  in  cooking. 

Broad  and  Apple  DompUngt. — Mix  half  a  pint  of  dried  bread-crumbs  and 
half  a  pint  of  fine  fiour.  Wet  it  with  water  and  two  eggs  thick  enough  to 
rolL  Then  put  it  around  large  apples  peeled  and  cored  whole,  and  boil  for 
dumplings  in  several  small  floured  cloths,  or  put  all  into  one  large  floored 
doth,  tied  tight,  as  they  will  not  swdl.  Try  with  a  fork,  and  when  the  ap- 
ples are  soft,  take  up  and  serve  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

An  oxooUent  Indian  Podding  without  Eggs.— Take  seven  heaping  spoon- 
fuls of  scalded  Indian  meal,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  spoonfuls  of  butter 
or  sweet  lard,  a  tea-cnp  of  molasses,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  ginger  or  dnna- 
mon,  to  the  taste.  Pour  into  these  a  quart  of  milk  while  boiling  hot.  Mix 
well  and  pm  in  a  buttered  dish.  Just  as  you  «et  in  the  oven,  stir  in  a  tea-cup 
of  cold  water,  which  ^iU  produce  the  same  effect  as  eggs.  Bake  three-qnar- 
ters  of  an  hour  in  a  dish  that  will  not  spread  it  out  thin. 

Boiled  Indian  and  Soot  Podding.— Three  pints  of  milk,  ten  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  Indian  meal,  a  tumblerful  of  moUisses,  two  eggs.     Scald 


BO       THE  HOUSXKXBPSR  AND  HSALTHKBBPSS. 

the  meal  with  the  milk,  add  the  molaases  and  a  tea-spoonfal  of  salt.  Pot* in 
the  eggs  when  it  is  cool  enough  not  to  scald  them.  Pdt  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  ginger.  Tie  the  bag  so  that  it  will  be^aboot  two-thirds  foU  of  the  pudding 
in  order  to  give  room  to  awelL  The  longer  it  is  boiled  the  better.  Some 
like  a  little  chopped  snet  with  the  above. 

▲  Denert  of  Eiee  and  Fruit— Pick  oyer  and  wash  the  rice,  and  boil  it  fif- 
teen minutes  in  water,  with  salt  at  the  rate  of  a  heaping  tea>spoosfhl  to  a 
quart.  Rice  is  much  improred  by  having  the  salt  put  in  while  cooking. 
Pour  out  the  water  in  fifteen  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boiL  Then  pour  in 
rich  milk  and  boil  till  of  a  pudding  thickness.  Then  pour  it  into  cups  to 
harden,  when  it  is  to  be  turned  out  inyerted  upon  a  platter  in  small  mounds. 
Make  an  opening  on  the  top  of  each,  and  put  in  a  pile  of  jelly  or  fruit..  Lastly, 
pour  over  all  a  custard  made  of  three  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt  boOed  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  boiling  water.  This  looks  rery  prettily.  Sweet 
cream  with  a  little  salt  can  be  used  instead  of  custard.  This  can  be  modified 
by  haying  the  whole  put  in  a  bowl  and  hardened,  and  then  inverted  and  sev- 
eral openings  made  for  the  fruit. 

• 

Another  Denert  of  Biee  and  Fruit— Boil  the  rice  in  salt  and  water,  a  tea- 
spoonful,  to  a  quart  of  water.  When  cooked  to  a  pudding  consistency,  tool  it, 
and  then  cut  it  in  slices.  Then  put  a  thin  layer  of  rice  at  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding-dish,  cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  jelly  or  stewed  fruit  half  an  inch 
thick.  Continue  to  add  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  jelly  or  fruit,  smboth  it  at 
top,  grate  on  sugar,  and  then  cut  the  edges  to  show  stripes  of  fruit  and  rice; 
Help  it  in  saucers,  and  have  cream  or  a  thin  custard  to  pour  on  it  Make  the 
custard  with  two  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  s^lt 
Boil  it  in  a  pail  sttt  in  boiling  water. 

BMsert  of  cold  Biee  and  ttswed  or  grated  Apple. — Cut  cold  bofled  rice  in 
slices,  and  then  lay  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  alternate  layers  of  rice  and 
grated  or  stewed  apples.  Add  sugar  and  spice  to  each  layer  of  apples.  Cover 
with  the  rice,  smooth  with  a  spoon  dipped  in  cold  water  or  milk,  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  if  the  apples  are  raw.  To  be  served  with  a  sweet 
sauOe. 

A  rich  Flour  Pudding. — Six  eggs. 

Three  spoonfuls  of  floor. 

One  pint  of  milk. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  salt 

Beat  the  yelks  well  and  mix  them  smoothly  with  the  floor,  then  add  the 
milk.  Lastly,  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  work  them  in,  and  bake  im- 
mediately. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  liquid  sauce. 

Apple-Fid. — Take  fair  apples ;  pare,  core,  and  quarter  them. 
-    l^ike  four  table-spoorifuls  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  pie. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  81 

Pot  into  a  preserving-pan,  with  the  sngar ;  water  enough  to  make  a  thin 
airap ;  throw  in  a  few  blades  of  mace ;  boil  the  apple  in  the  simp  nntil  ten- 
der, a  little  at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  break  the  pieces.  Take  them  ont  with 
care,  and  lay  them  in  sonp-idishes. 

When  yon  have  preserved  apple  enough  for  joor  number  of  pies,  add  to 
the  remainder  of  the  simp  cinnamon  and  rose-water,  or  any  other  spice, 
enough  to  flavor  it  well,  and  divide  it  among  the  pies.  Make  a  good  paste, 
and  line  the  rim  of  the  dishes,  and  then  cover  them,  leaving  the  pies  without 
an  under  crust.    Bake  them  a  light  brown. 

Spieed  Apple  Tarts. — Bub  stewed  or  baked  apples  through  a  sieve ;  sweet- 
en them,  and  add  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon  enough  to  flavor  them.  If 
the  apples  are  not  veiy  tart,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  .  Some  persons 
like  the  peel  of  the  lemon  grated  into  it.  Xine  soup-dishes  with  a  liglit  crust, 
double  on  the  rim,  and  fill  them  and  bake  them  nntU  the  crust  is  done.  lit- 
tle bars  of  crust,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  width,  crossed  on  the  top  of  the  tart 
before  it  is  baked,  are  omamentaL 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — ^Three  pints  of  milk. 

Ten  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  Indian  meal. 

Three  gUls  of  molasses. 

A  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  molasses,  and  bake 
four  or  five  hours.  Some  add  a  little  chopped  suet  in  place  of  the  butter. 
This  can  be  boiled. 

Apple  Costard. — ^Take  half  a  dozen  very  tart  apples,  and  take  off  the  skin 
and  cores.  Cook  them  till  they  begin  to  be  soft,  in  half  a  tea^^mp  of  water. 
Then  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  sngar  them.  Then  beat  six  c^ggs  with 
four  spoonfuls  of  sugar ;  mix  it  with  three  pints  of  milk,  and  two  tea^qkoon- 
fiils  of  salt ;  pour  it  over  the  apples,  and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour. 

Flain  Xaeanmi  or  Vermicelli  Paddings. — ^Fut  two  ounces  of  macaroni  or 
vermicelli  into  a  pint  of  milk,  and  sinuner  nntQ  tender.  Flavor  it  by  putting 
in  two  or  three  sticks  of  cinnamon  while  boiling,  or  some  other  spice  when 
done.  .  Then  beat  up  three  eggs,  mix  in  an  ounce  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  silt,  and  a  glass  of  vnne.  Add  these  to  the  broken 
macaroni  or  vermicelli,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Green  Com  Pudding. — Twelve  ears  of  com,  grated.  Sweet-com  is  best 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  milk.  Four  well-beaten  eggs.  One  tea-cup  and  a 
half  of  sngar. 

Mix  the  above,  and  bake  it  three  hours  in  a  buttered  dish.  More  sugar  is 
needed  if  common  com  is  used. 

Bread  Padding  for  Invalids  or  young  Children. — Grate  half  a  pound  of 
stale  bread ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  let  it 

4* 


82  THE   HOUSSKBEPBB  AND  HBALTHEJCSPBB. 

soak  half  an  hoar.  Add  two  wdl-beaten  egg^  pot  it  in  a  coyered  basin  just 
Uigfi  enoogh  to  hold  it,  tie  it  in  a  pndding-cloth,  and  boil  it  half  an  hoar ;  or 
pat  it  in  a  battered  pan.in  an  oren,  and  bake  it  that  time. .  Make  a  sauce  of 
thin  sweet  cream,  -sweetened  with  sugar,  and  flatored  with  rose-water  or  nat- 
meg. 

▲  good  Padding.-^Line  a  battered  dish  with  slices  of  wheat  bread,  first 
dipped  in  milk.  Fill  the  dish  with  sliced  apple,  and  add  sagar  and  spice. 
Cover  with  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk ;  cover  close  with  a  plate,  and  bake 
three  hoars. 

Loaf  Padding. — ^When  bread  is  too  stale,  pat  a  loaf  in  a  padding-bag  and 
boil  it  in  salted  water  |m  hoar  and  a  half,  and  eat  it  with  hard  padding-sauce. 

▲  Lemon  Padding.— Nine  spoonfuls  of  grated  apple,  one  grated  lemon, 
(peel  and  pulp,)  one  spoonful  of  butter,  and  three  eggs.  Mix  and  bake,  with 
or  without  a  crust,  about  an  hour.    Cream  improves  it. 

Green  Com  Patties,  (like  oysters.)— Twelve  ears  of  sweet-corn  grated. 
(Yellow  com  will  do,  but  not  so  well) 
One  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  pepper. 
One  egg  beaten  into  two  table-spoonfuls  of  floor. 
Mix,  make  into  small  cakes,  and  cook  on  a  griddle. 


Cracker  Plnm  Pudding,  (excellent) — Make  a  very  sweet  custard,  and  put 
into  it  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

Take  soda  crackers,  split  them,  and  butter  them  very  thick. 

Put  a  layer  of  raisins,  on  the  bottom  of  a  large  pudding-dish,  and  then  a 
layer  of  crackers;  and  pour,  on  a  little  of  the  custard  when  warm,  and  after 
soaking  a  little,  pnt  on  a  thick  layer  of  raisins,  pressing  them  into  the  crack- 
ers with  a  knife. .  Then  put  on  another  layer  of  crackers,  custard  and  fmit, 
and  proceed  thus  till  you  have  four  layers.  Then  pour  over  the  whole  enough 
custard  to  rise  even  with  the  crackers.  It  is  best  madtf  over  night,  so  that 
the  crackers  may  soak. .  Bake  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Dur- 
ing the  first  half-hour,  pour  on,  at  three  different  times,  a  little  of  the  cus- 
tard, thinned  widi  millc,  to  prevent  the  top  from  being  hard  and  dry.  If  it 
browns  fast,  cover  with  paper. 

Bread  and  butter  pudding  is  made  in  a  similar  manner. 

-  SAUCES   FOB  PUDDINGS. 

Liquid  Sanoe. — Six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Ten  table-spoonfols  of  war 
ter.  Four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Two  table-spootafnls  of  wine.  Nut- 
meg, or  lemon,  or  orange-peel,  or  rose-water,  to  flavor. 

Heat  the  water  and  sugar  very  hot.  Stir  in  the  butter  tiU  it  is  melted,  but 
be  carefiil  not  to  let  it  boiL  Add  the  wine  and  nutmeg,  just  before  it  is 
used. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PIES.  83 

.  Hard  Sauce. — ^Two  table-spoonfuls  of  batter. 

Ten  table^spoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Work  this  till  white,  then  add  wine  or  grated  lemon-peel^  and  spice  to 
joor  taste. 

Another  Hard  Sanee. — Mix  half  as  mnch  butter  as  sugar,  and  heat  it  fif- 
teen  minutes  in  a  bowl  set  in  hot  water.    Stir  till  it  foams.    FlaTor  with 

wine  or  grated  iemon-peeL 

« 

A  Healthfol  Padding  Sanee. — ^Boil,  in  hiUf  a  pint  of  water,  some  orange 

or  lemon-peel,  or  peach-leaves.    Take  them  out  and  pour  in  a  thin  paste, 

made  with  two  spoonfuls  of  floor,  and  boil  five  minutes.    Then  pn^  in  a  pint 

of  sugar,  and  let  it  boiL    Then  put  in  two  spoonfuls  Of  butter,  add  a  glass  of 

.  wine,  and  take  it  np  before  it  boils. 

An  excellent  Sanoe  for  any  Kind  of  Podding.— Beat  the  yelks  of  three 
eggs  into  sugar  enough  to  make  it  quite  sweet  Add  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  or 
milk,  and  a  little  butter,  and  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  When 
lemons  can  not  be  had,  ose  dried  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  tartatic  acid.  This 
is  a  good  sauce  for  puddings,  espedallj  for  the  Starch  Minute  Pudding. 
Good  cider  in  place  of  wine  is  sometimes  nsed. 

PASTE   FOE  PUDDINGS   AND  PIES. 

This  is  an  article  which,  if  the  laws  of  health  were  obeyed, 
would  be  banished  from  every  table ;  for  it  unites  the  three 
evils — animal  fat,  cooked  animal  fat,  and  heavy  bread.  Noth- 
ing in  the  whole  range  of  cooking  is  more  indigestible 
than  rich  pie-crust,  especially  when,  as  l)ottoiu  crust,  it  is 
made  still  worse  by  being  soaked,  or  slack-baked.  Still,  as 
.  this  work  does  not  profess  to  leave  out  unwholesome  dishes, 
but  only  to  set  forth  an  abundance  of  healthful  ones,  and 
the  reasons  for  preferring  them,  the  best  directions  will  be 
given  for  making  the  best  kinds  of  paste. 

Kd-Gmtti  withoot  Fata. — Good  crusts  for  plain  pies  are  made  by  wetting 
np  the  crust  with  rich  milk  tamed  sour,  and  sweetened  with  saleratns.  Still 
better  crusts  are  made  of  soor  cream,  sweetened  with  saleratos. 

Mealj  potatoes  boiled  in  salt  water  and  mixed  with  the  same  qoantitj  of 
flour,  and  wet  with  sour  milk  sweetened  with  saleratns,  make  a  good  crust. 

Good  light  bread  rolled  thin  makes  a  good  crust  for  Pan-Dowdy,  or  pan- 
pie,  and  also  for  the  upper  crust  of  fruit-pies,  to  be  made  without  bottom 
cmsts. 

Pi»-Gratt  made  with  Batter. — Veiy  plain  paste  is  made  by  taking  a  qoar- 


84  THS'HOUSB&EEPSB  AND  HXALTHKSSPXB. 

ter  of  a  poand  of  batter  for  every  poand  of  floor.  Still  richer,  allow  three 
quartern,  of  a  pound  of  batter  to  a  poifad  of  floar. 

Direotions  for  making  rich  FlMSruit— Take  a  quarter  of  the  batter  to 
be  osed,  rab  it  thoroaghlj  into  the  floor,  and  wet  it  with  cold  water  to  a  stiff 
paste. 

Next  dredge  the  board  thick  with  floor,  cot  op  the  remainder  of  the  batter 
into  thin  slices,  lay  them  tq>on  the  floor,  dredge  floor  orer  thick,  and  then 
roll  oot  the  batter  into  thin  sheets,  and  lay  it  aside. 

'  Then  roll  oat  the  paste  thin,  cover  it  with  a  sheet  of  this  rolled  batter; 
dredge  on  nM)re  floor,  fold  it  op  and  roll  it  6at,  and  rq)eat  the  process  till  all 
the  hotter  is  osed  op. 

Paste  shoald  be  made  as  quick  and  as  cold  as  possible.  Some  nse  a  mar- 
ble table  in  order  to  keq>  it  cold.    Boll /rom  you  erery  time. 


CAKB.  85 


CHAPTER  XVI 

CAKB. 

The  maltiplication  of  recipes  for  cakes,  pies,  puddings,  and 
desserts  is  troablesome  and  needless,  inasmuch  as  a  little 
generalization  will  reduce  them  to  a  comparatively  small 
compass,  and  yet  afford  a  large  variety. 

Cake  is  of  three  classes,  as  raised  either  by  eggs,  or  by 
yeast,  or  by  powders ;  and  different  proportions  of  flour,  su- 
gar, shortening,  and  wetting  make  the  variety,  as  it  appears 
in  what  follows.  # 

Oeneral  Directions. 

Sifl  flour,  roll  sugar,  sifl  spices,  and  prepare  fruit  before- 
hand. Break  eggs  that  are  to  be  whipped,  one  at  a  time,  in 
a  cup,  and  let  none  of  the  yelk  go  in.  Have  them  coldj  and 
yon  will  get  on  faster. 

Excepting  dough  -  cake,  never  use  the  hand  in  making 
cake,  but  a  wooden  spoon,  and  in  an  earthen  vessel. 

The  goodness  of  cake  depends  greatly  ^n  baking.  If  too 
hot  at  bottom,  set  the  pan  on  a  brick ;  if  too  hot  at  top,  cov- 
er with  paper.  If  top-crust  is  formed  suddenly,  it  prevents 
what  is  below  from  rising  properly ;  and  so,  when  the  oven 
IS  very  hot,  cover  with  paper. 

When  fruit  is  used,  sprinkle  the  fruit  with  a  little  flour  to 
keep  it  from  sinking  when  baking.  Some  put  fruit  in  in  lay- 
ers, one  in  the  middle  and  another  near  the  top,  as  this 
spreads  it  evenly.    Put  in  the  flour  just  before  baMng. 

When  using  whites  beaten  to  a  froth  separately,  put  in 
the  last  thing,  so  that  the  bubbles  of  air  which  make  the 
lightness  may  be  retained  more'  perfectly.  Bake  as  soon  as 
thie^  cake  is  ready. 

Water  is  as  good  as  milk  for  most  cakes  as  well  as  for 
bread;  a  mixture  of  new  and  stale  milk  injures  the  cake. 

Streaks  in  cake  are  made  either  by  imperfect  mixing,  or 


86       THE  H0n8SKEE?BB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

unequal  baking,  or  by  sudden  decrease  of  heat  before  the 
cake  is  done.  Try  when  cake  is 'done,  by  inserting  a  splinter 
or  straw ;  if  it  comes  out  clean,  the  cake  is  done. 

The  best  way  to  keep  cake  is  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar. 

Do  not  wrap  cake  or  bread  in  a  cloth. 

In  baking,  move  cake  gently  if  you  change  its  place,  or  it 
will  fall  in  streaks.  Cake  is  more  nicely  baked  when  the 
pan  is  lined  with  oiled  paper,  especially  in  old  pans,  which 
often  give  a  bad  taste  to  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  cake. 

CAKE   lUISED  WITH  POWDEB& 

Although  it  is  unhealthful  to  use  powders  in  bread  for 
daily  food,  the  small  quantity  used  for  cake  will  do  no  harm. 

The  cake  most  easily  made  is  raised  with  soda  and  cream 
tartar  or  other  baking  powdei^,  and  many  varieties  can  be 
made  by  the  following  recipes : 

One,  Two,  Three,  Four  Cake.— Take  one  cup  of  batter,  (half  a  cop  is  bet- 
ter,) two  caps  of  sagar,  three  caps  of  floor,  and  foar  eggs.  Mix  batter, 
sogar,  and  yelks.  Then  add  the  floar  yery  tboroaghly,  and  lastly  the  whites 
in  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  immediately,  and  the  cake  will  be  light,  with  nothing 
added.  Bat  jt  is  eqaally  light  to  omit  the  eggs  and  work  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  cream  tartar  into  the  flour,  and  then  mix  well  first  the  batter  and  sugar, 
and  then  the  floor.  When  ready  to  bake,  mix  yery  thoroughly  and  quickly 
a  tea-epoonfal  of  soda,  or  a  bit  of  sal  yolatile  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  warm  (not 
hot)  water.  This  makes  two  loaves.  The  following  are  varieties  made  by 
this  recipe,  nsing  raising  either  with  eggs  or  powders : 

Chooolate'Cake. — Bake  the  above  in  thin  layers,  only  a  little  thicker  than 
carpeting.  When  nearly  cool,  spread  over  the  cake  a  paste  made  of  equal 
parts  of  scraped  chocolate  and  sugar  wet  with  water.  PUce  the  cake  in 
layers  one  over  another,  frost  the  top,  and  then  cut  in  oblong  pieces  for  the 
ci^e-basket. 

Jelly-Cake. — ^Proceed  as  above,  only  using  jelly  instead  of  chocolate. 

QrangerCake. — Proceed  as  for  jelly-cake,  having  flavored  the  cake  when 
making  with  a  little  grated  orange-peeL  The  oranges  must  be  peeled,  chop- 
ped flne,  and  sweetened.  - 

Almond  and  Coeoa-nnt  Cake. — Blanch  three  ounces  of  almonds,  (that  is, 
pour  on  boiling  water  and  take  off  the  skins.)  Chop  or  pound  them  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar,  make  a  thin  paste  with  water,  and  use  this  instead 
of  the  jelly.   Cocoa-nut,  chopped  fine,  can  be  used  instead  of  almonds.  Straw- 


CAKE.  W 

berries,, Peaches,  Cranberries,  and  Qtnnce«,  and  any  other  froit,  mashed  or 
.  cooked,  can  be  nsed  in  place  of  the  jelly,  being  first  sweetened. 

This  cake  can  be  made  richer  by  adding  spices  and  friiit  before  baking. 
Cream  can  be  used  in  place  of  batter.  Chopped  almonds,  citron,  or  cocoa- 
not  may  be  pat  in  the  cake  for  baking,  making  still  another  variety. 

CAKBS  RAISED  WITH  EGGS. 

Poond-Cake,  (yeiy  rich.)— One  pound  of  floar,  one  poand  of  sngar,  half  a 
pound  of  batter,  nine  eggs,  a  glass  of  brandy,  one  natmeg,  one  tea-spoonfal 
of  ponnded  cinnamon.  Mix  half  the  floor  with  the  batter,  brandy,  and 
•pice ;  add  the  yeIks"of  eggs  beaten  well  into  the  sagar.  Beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  in  alternate  spoonfab  with  the  rest  of  the  floor : 
then  beat  a  long  time,  and  bake  as  soon  as  done. 

Plain  Cake  raiaad  with  Siggs. — ^Take  a  pound  or  qoart  of  floor,  half  as 
mnch  sngar,  half  as  much  butter  as  sugar,  four  or  five  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  and 
a  tea-spoonfhl  of  cinnamon.  Mix  well  the  sugar,  batter,  yelks,  and  spice ; 
then  the  fiour,  and  last  the  whites  as  stiff  froth. 

These  two  cakes  are  varied  by  adding  citron,  frtiit,  or  other  spicies,  making 
them  more  or  less  rich. 

Fruit-cake.— This  to  be  made  either  like  ponnd-cake,  with  fruit  added ; 
or  like  plain  cake,  raised  with  eggs  or  yeast,  adding  fruit 

WalnMt-me€Us  or  Almonds  may  be  chopped  and  put  in  the  cake  instead  of 
fruit,  making  another  variety. 

HneUebeny-Caka. — One  quart  of  huckleberries,  three  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cops  of  flour,  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  one  tea^^>oonfol  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Cream  the  buttet  and  sugar,  and  add  the 
beaten  yelks.  Then  add  the  milk,  flour,  and  two  grated  nutmegs.  Then  add 
the  whitq^,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  berries,  gently,  so  as  not  to  mash 
them.    An  excellent  cake. 

Currants  and  other  berries  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  If  very  sour, 
add  more  sugar.  If  doubtful  of  raising  it  enough,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda;  or,  more  surely,  a  bit  of  sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 

Chdd  and  ffilyer  Cake. — ^This  makes  a  pretty  variety  when  cut  and  placed 
together  in  a  cake-dish.  .  For  each,  take  one  cup  of  sugar  (for  the  silver, 
white;  and  for  the  gold,  brown),  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  flocur^  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  and  half  as  much  soda.  For 
the  one,  use  the  yelk  of  three  eggs ;  and  the  white,  as  stiff  froth,  for  the  oth- 
er. Mix  tfaie  cream  tartar  very  thoroughly  in  the  flour,  and  put  in  the  soda 
last  •  Bake  immediately.  This  makes  one  loaf  of  each  kind,  in  flat  pans,  and 
ia  to  be  frosted.     If  more  is  wanted,  double  the  quantity  of  each  ingredient 

Bieh  8p<mge4!ake. — Take  twelve  eggs,  and  the  weight  of  ten  in  sugar,  and 


88        THE  UOUSBKEEPES  AND  HEALTHKEBPEB. 

six  in  floor.  Beat  the  sugar  into  the  yelks,  add  the  joice  and  grated  peel  of 
one  lemon,  then  the  floor,  and  then  the  whites  cot  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  hake 
as  soon  as  possible.  Bake  in  brick-shaped  pans,  and  line  them  with  bottered 
paper. 

Plain  SpoDgd-Oake,  (easily  made.)— Mix  thoroughly  two  cnps  of  sifted  floor 
and  two  cops  of  white  sogar  with  one  tea-spoonfol  of  cream  tartar.  Beat 
four  eggs  to  a  froth,  not  separating  the  whites,  and  add  some  grated  lemon- 
peel,  or  nntmeg,  or  rose-water.  Jost  before  baking,  add  half  a  tea-spoonfbl 
of  soda  dissolved  in  three  great-spoonfols  of  warm  water.  Beat  qnick,  and 
set  in  the  oven  immediately. 


GIKOBBBBSAD,  FBIED  CAKES,  COOKIES,  AND  OTHEB  CAKES. 

Annt  Eithet'i  OiBgerbread.— Take  half  a  pint  of  molasses,  a  small  cop  of 
soft  batter,  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water,  a  heaping  tea-spoonfol  of  soda  dissoWed 
in  a  table-spoonfol  of  hot  water,  and  one  even  table-spoonfol  of  strong  gin- 
ger, or  two  if  weak.  Bob  batter  and  ginger  into  the  floor,  add  the  water, 
soda^  and  molasses,  and  while  doing  it,  pot  in  two  table-spoonfols  of  Tin^gar. 
BoU  it  in  cards  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  half  an  hoar  in  a  qoick  oven. 

Sponge  Gingerbread.— Add  to  the  abore  two  beaten  eggs,  and  water  to 
make  it  thin  as  pound-cake,  and  bake  as  soon  as  well  mixed. 

Qinger-Snapa  and  Seed-Oooldei. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cops  of  sugar  or 
-  molasses,  one  cop  of  water,  one  table-spoonfhl  of  ginger,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  of  cloTes,  oile  tea-spoonfol  of  soda  dissolyed 
in  a  small  cap  of  hot  water.  Mix  and  add  flour  for  a  stiff  dough,  roll  and 
cat  in  small  roand  cakes.  Omit  the  spices,  and  put  in  four  or  fiTe  table- 
spoonfuls  of  caraway  seeds,  and  yon  have  aeecUcakes.  L^ve  out  all  spice 
and  Seeds,  and  ^ou  hare  plain  cookies.  .        « 

Fried  Cakw.—Tor  Doughnuts^  use  the  recipe  for  Phiin  Sponge-Cake,  add- 
ing flour  enough  to  rolL  Or  take  Plain  Cake  raised  with  eggs,  and  add  flour 
enough  to  roll.  Or  take  Dough-Cake,  or  Plain  I^oaf-Cake,  and  thicken  so 
as  to  rolL  BoU  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  oblong  pieces.  For 
Cndlen^  take  pUuu  bake  raised  with  eggs,  and  thicken  stiff  with  flour ;  roll  it 
thin,  and  cut  into  strips,  and  fonn  twisted  cakes.  More  sugar  and  butter 
make  it  richer,  but  less  healthfoL 

Haye  plenty  of  lard,  or,  better,  strained  beef-fat,  qoite  hot;  txy  with  a 
small  piece  flrst,  and,  if  right,  there  will  be  a  babbling.  Tom  two  or  three 
times  to  cook  all  alike,  break  open  one  to  try  if  done,  and  when  done,  take 
up  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  well.  If  the  fat  is  too  hot,  it  will  brown  too 
quick ;  if  not  hot  enough,  the  &t  will  soak  into  the  cake.  Bemeraber  that 
frying  is  the  most  unhealUiful  mode  of  cooking  food,  and  the  one  most  like- 
ly to  be  done  amiss.   -  . 


CAKS.  89 


CAKE   RAISED   WITH   YEAST. 

Plmin  Loaf-Cake. — ^Two  j>oand8  of  dried  and  sifted  flour,  a  pint  of  warm 
water  in  which  is  melted  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  three  eggs  without  beating,  and  three  quarters  of  a'  pound  of  sugar, 
well  mixed ;  and  then  add  two  nutmegs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  and 
two  gills  of  home-brewed  or  half  as  much  distillery  yeast.  When  light,  add 
two  or  three  pounds  of  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour. 

Bieh  Loal^Ue  is  made  like  the  aboye,  only  adding  more  butter  and  sugar. 
The  following  are  specimens  of  the  diverso  proportions:  Four  pounds  of 
flour,  three  of  sugar,  two  of  butter,  a  quart  of  water  or  milk,  ten  unbeaten 
eggs,  half  a  pint  of  wibe,  three  nutmegs,  three  tea-^spoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
and  two  dores ;  two  gills  of  distilleiy  yeast,  or  twice  as  mtach  home-brewed. 
This  is  what  in  New-England  wcfuld  be  called  Election  x>r  Commencement- 
Cake.  Two  or  three  risings  used  to  be  practiced,  but  one  is  as  good  if  the 
mixing  is  thorough. 

DougMSake.— Three  cups  of  raised  dough,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  two  eggs,  fruit  and  spice  to  the  taste.  When  light,  bake  in  loaves. 
This  can  be  made  more  or  less  sweet,  and  shortened  by  lessening  or  increas- 
ing the  quantity  of  dough.     It  must  be  mixed  with  the  hands. 

leing  for  Cake. — ^l^ut  the  whites  of  eggs  into  a  dish,  and  for  each  egg  use 
about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites,  slowly  adding  the 
sugar.  This  is  better  jthan  beating  the  whites  first,  and  then  adding  sugar. 
A  little  lemon-juice  or  tartaric  acid  makes  it  whiter  and  better.  Spread  the 
idng,  after  pouring  it  upon  the  centre,  with  a  kuife  dipped  in  water.  If  you 
can,  dry  in  an  open,  sunny  window.  Otherwise,  harden  it  in  the  oren.  It 
improTes  it  by  mixing,  when  adding  sugar,  some  almonds  pounded  to  a  thin 
patte. 


90  .     THB  H0USSKBEPS9  AND  HBALTHKBEPBB. 


CHAPTER  XVn. 

PRESBRVBS  AND  JELLIBS. 

General  Directions. 

Gathbr  fruit  when  it  is  dry. 

Long  boiling  hardens  the  frait. 

Poar  boiling  water  over  the  sieves  used,  and  wring  oat 
jelly-bags  in  hot  water  the  moment  yon  are  to  nse  them. 

Do  not  squeeze  while  straining  through  jelly-bags. 

Let  the  pots  and  jars  containing  sweetmeats  just  made 
remaip  uncovered  three  days. 

For  permanent  covering,  lay  brandy  papers  over  the  top, 
cover  them  tight,  and  seal  them ;  or,  what  is  best  of  all, 
soak,  a  split  bladder  and  tie  it  tight  over  them.  In  drying, 
it  will  shrink  so  as  to  be  perfectly  air-tight. 

Keep  them  in  a  dry  but  not  warm  place. 

A  thick,  leathery  mold  helps  to  preserve  fruit,  but  when 
mold  appears  in  specks,  the  preserves  must  be  scalded  in  a 
warm  oven,  or  the  jars  containing  them  are  to  be  set  into 
hot  water,  which  must  then  ^  boil  till  the  preserves  are 
scalded. 

Always  keep  watch  of  preserves  which  are  not  sealed, 
especially  in  warm  and  damp  weather.  The  only  sure  way 
to  keep  them  without  risk  or  care  is  to  make  them  with 
enough  sugar  and  seal  them  or  tie  bladder  covers  over. 

The  best  kettle  is  iron  lined  with  porcelain.  If  brass  is 
used,  it  must  be  bnght,  or  acids  will  make  a  poison. 

The  chief  art  is  to  boil  continuously,  slowly,  and  gently, 
and  take  up  as  soon  as  done ;  too  long  boiling  makes  the 
fruit  hard  and  dark.  Jellies  will  not  harden  well  if  the 
boiling  stops  for  some  minutes.  Try  jellies  with  a  spoon, 
and  as  soon  as  they  harden  around  the  edge  quickly,  they 
are  done.  In  making,  the  «ugar  should  be  heated,  and  not 
added  till  the  juice  boils. 

Keep  preserves  in  small  glass  jars,  as  frequent  opening  in- 
jures them. 


PBBSBBYES  AND  JBLLIES.  91 

Canned  Fmit. — ^This  is  far  more  economical  thaii  to  preserve  in  sugar. 
Some  can  be  canned  without  any  sugar,  and  very  nice  sugar  demands  only 
one  fourth  sugar  to  three  fourths  fruit.  The  best  cans  are  ^lass  with  metal 
tops.  Those  of  Wilcox  are  the  best  known  to  the  author.  The  W.  L.  Im- 
lay's,  of  Philadelphia,  are  recommended  as  best  of  any. 

Directions. — Set  the  jars  in  a  large  boiler,  and  then  fill  it  with  cold  water 
and  beat  to  boiling.  Having  filled  the  jare  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top  with 
alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar,  (in  proportion  of  one  half  or  one  fourth  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  poiind  of  fruit,  according  as  it  is  more  or  less  acid,)  set 
them  in  cold  water.  As  soon  as  the  fruit  has  risen  to  the  top  of  the  jar,  screw 
00  the  cover  and  take  from  the  ivater.  Peaches  and  pears  may  be  canned 
without  sugar. 

To  elarify  Sump  for  Sweetmeats. — For  each  pound  of  sugar  allow  half  a 
pint  of  water.  For  every  three  pounds  of  sugar  allow  the  white  of  one  egg. 
Mix  when  cold,  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  skim  it.  Let  it  stand  ten  ipinutes 
and  skim  it  again,  then  strain  it. 

Brandy  Peaches. — Prick  the  peaches  with  a  needle,  put  them  into  a  kettle 
with  cold  water,  heat  the  water,  scald  them -until  sufficiently  soft  to  be  pene- 
trated with  a  straw.  Take  half  a  pounfl  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  peaches ; 
make  the  sirup  with  the  sugar,  and  while  it  is  a  little  warm  mix  two  thirds  as 
much  of  white  brandy  with  it,  put  the  fmit  into  jars  and  pour  .the  sirup  over 
iL    The  late  white  clingstones  are  the  best  to  use. 

Feaohet,  (not  very  rich.) — To  six  pounds  of  fruit  put  five  of  sugar.  Make 
the  simp.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the  simp  till  it  is  clear.  If  the  fruit  is  ripe,  half 
an  hour  will  cook  it  sufficiently. 

Feachet,  (very  elegant.) — First  take  out  the  stones,  then  pare  them.  To 
eveiy  pound  of  peaches  allow  one  third  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  a  thin 
sirup,  boil  the  peaches  in  the  simp  till  tender,  but  not  till  they  break.  Pnt 
them  into  a  bowl  and  pour  the  simp  over  them.  Put  them  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  and  let  them  stand  two  days.  Then  make  a  new,  rich  simp,  allowing 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fmit.  Drain  the  peaches  from 
the  first  simp,  and  boil  them  until  they  are  clear  in  the  last  simp.  The  firet 
simp  must  not  be  added,  but  may  be  used  for  any  other  purpose  you  please, 
as  it  is  somewhat  bitter.     The  large  white  clingstones  are  the  best. 

To  preserve  Quinoei  whole. — Select  the  largest  and  fiurest  quinces,  (as  the 
poorer  ones  will  answer  for  jelly.)  Take  out  the  cores  and  pare  them.  Boil 
the  quinces  in  water  till  tender.  Take  them  out  separately  on  a  platter.  To 
each  pound  of  quince  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  the  simp,  thep  boil  the 
quinces  in* the  simp  until  clear. 

Quinse  Jelly.— Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth  until  perfectly  smooth.  Re- 
move the  cores,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  pack  them  tigbt  in  your  kettl^ 


92       THE  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEAlTHKEEPBB. 

pour  cold  water  on  th»ni  until  it  is  on  a  lerel  with  the  fruit,  but  not  to  coYer 
it ;  boil  till  teiy  soft,  but  not  till  they  break.  Dip  off  all  the  liquor  you  can, 
then  put  the  fruit  into  a  siere  and  press  it,  and  drain  off  all  the  remaining 
liquor.  Then  to  a  pint  of  the  liquor  add  a  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  it  fifteen 
minutes.  Pour  it,  as  soon  as  cool,  into  small  jars  or  tumblers.  Let  it  stand 
in  the  snn  a  few  days,  till  it  begins  to  diy  on  the  top.  It  will  continue  to 
harden  after  it  is  put  up. 

Calf' tJPoot  JtUj^ — ^To  four  nicely  cleaned  calf  *s  feet  put  four  quarts  of  wa- 
ter ;  let  it  simmer  gently  till  reduced  to  two  quarts^  then  strain  it  and  let  it 
stand  all  night.  Then  Uike  off  all  the  &t  and  sedimcut,  melt  it,  add  the  juice, 
and  put  in  the  peel  of  three  lemons  and  a  pint  of  wine,  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
three  sticks  of  cinnamon,  and  sugar  to  your  taste.  Boil  ten  minutes,  then 
skim  out  the  spice  and  lemon-ped  and  strain  it. 

The  American  gelatine,,  now  very  common,  makes  a  good  jelly,  with  far  less 
trouble ;  and-  in  using  it,  yon  only  need  to  dissolve  it  in  hot  water,  and  then 
sweeten  and  flavor  it. 

To  preierre  Applet.— Take  only  tart  and  well-flavored  apples ;  peel  and 
take  out  the  cores  without  dividing  them,  and  then  parboil  them.  Make  jthe 
sirup  with  the  apple  water,  allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar 
to  every  pound  of  apples,  and  boil  some  lemon-peel  and  juice  in  the  simp. 
Pour,  the  sirup,  while  boiUng,  upon  the  apples,  turn  them  gently  while  cook- 
ing, and  only  let  the  sirup  simmer,  as  hard  boiling  breaks  the  fruit  Tike  it 
out  when,  the  apple  is  tender  through.  At  the  end  of  a  week,  boil  them  once 
more  in  the  simp. 

Pean. — ^Take  out  the  cores,  cut  off  the  stems,  and  pare  them.  Bdl  the 
pears  in  water  till  they  are  tender.  Watch  them  Uiat  they  do  not  break.  Lay 
them  separately  on  a  platter  as  you  take  them  out.  To  each  pound  of  fruit 
take  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  the  simp,  and  boil  the  fruit  in  the  sirup  till 
c\&kr.  \ 

FindiApplee,  (very  fine.)— Pare  and  gr€Ue  the  pine-apple.  Take  an  equal 
quantity  of  fruit  and  sugar.    Boil  them  slowly  in  a  saucepan  for  half  an  honr. 

Purple  Plnmm  Xfo- 1* — Make  a  rich  sirup.  Boil  the  plums  in  the  drup 
very  gently  till  they  b^n  to  crack  open.  Then  take  them  from  the  sirup  into 
a  jar,  and  pour  the  sirup  over  them.  Let  them  stand  a  few  days,  and  then 
boil  them  a  second  time  veiy  gently. 

Purple  Plnmi,  No.  2.— -Take  an  equal  weight  of  fruit  and  nice  brown  sn. 
gar.  Take  a  clean  stone  jar,  put  in  a  layer  of  fruit  and  a  layer  of  sugar  till 
all  is  in.  Cover  them  tightly  with  dough,  or  other  tight  cover,  and  put  them 
in  a  brick  oven  after  yon  have  baked  in  it.  If  you  bake  in  the  morning,  put 
the  plums  in  the  oven  at  evening,  and  let  them  remain  till  the  next  morning. 
Wben  yon  bake  Agiain,  set  theni  in  thQ  oven  as  before.    Uncover  them  and 


.      PSSSBBVES  AKB  JBUJSS.  93 

Stir  them  carefoDy  with  a  spoon,  and  so  as  not  to  break  theim.    Set  them  in 
the  oren  thos  the  third  time,  and  they  will  be  sufficiently  cooked. 

White  or  Green  Tlnms. — Pat  each  one  into  boiling  water  and  mb  off  the 
fkin.  Allow  a  pound  of  fruit  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  a  sirup  of  sugar 
and  water.  Bdl  the  fruit  in  the  sirup  until  clear — about  twenty  minutes. 
Let  the  drup  be  cold  before  you  pour  it  over  the  fruit  They  can  be  pre- 
senred  without  taking  off  the  skins  by  pricking  them^  Some  of  the  kernels 
of  the  stones  boiled  in  gire  a  pleasant  flavor. 

Oltron  Xtiona. — Two  fresh  lemons  to  a  pound  of  melon.  Let  the  sugar 
be  pqatl  in  weight  to  the  lemon  and  melon.  Take  out  the  pulp  of  the  melon 
and  cat  it  in  thin  slices,  and  boil  it  in  fidr  water  till  tender.  Take  it  out  and 
boil  the  lemon  in  the  same  water  about  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  lem- 
on, add  the  sugar,  and,  if  necessary,  a  little  more  water.  Let  it  boiL  When 
clear,  add  the  melon  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes. 

Strawbeniei. — ^Look  over  them  with  care.  '  Weigh  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  poond  of  fruit.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  on  the  bottom  of  the  preserving, 
kettle,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  so  on  till  all  is  in  the  pan.  Boil  them  about 
fifteen  minutet.  Put  them  in  bottles,  hot,  and  seal  them.  Then  put  them 
In  a  box  and  fill  it  in  with  diy  sand.  Ilie  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  preserved 
more  perfectly  by  simply  packing  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers,  and 
sealing  the  jar,  without  cooking ;  but  the  preserves  do  not  look  so  well. 

BUekberzy  Jam.— Allow  thrte  quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  frnit.  Boil  the  fruit  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  all 
together  ten  minutes. 

• 

To  yremre  Corraati  to  eat  with  Meat — Strip  them  from  the  stem. 
Bofl  them  an  hour,  and  then  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit  add  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar.    Boil  all  together  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Oherriei. — ^Take  out  the  stones.  To  a  pound  of  frnit  allow  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  on  the  bottom  of  the  preserving-kettle,  then  a 
layer  of  sugar,  and  continue  thus  till  all  are  put  in.  Boil  till  clear.  Pa( 
them  in  bottles  hot  and  seal  them.    Keep  them  in  dxy  sand. 

Cnmati. — Strip  them  from  the  stems.  AUow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  currants.  Boil  them  together  ten  minutes.  Take  them  from  the 
rirap  and  let  the  simp  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  pour  it  on  the  frnit  Put 
them  in  small  jars  or  tumblers,  and  let  them  sund  in  the  sun  a  few  days. 

Basphtrry  Jam,  Ko.  L  — ^Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  Press 
them  with  a  spoon  in  an  earthen  dish.  ASd  the  sugar,  and  boil  all  together 
fifteen  minutes. 

Baspbeny  Jam,  Ho.  2.— Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  poond  of  fruit    Boil 


94       THE  H0U8EKEEPBB  AND  HSALTHKEEPSB. 

the  fruit  half  an  honr,  or  till  the  seeds  are  soft.  Strkin  one  quarter  of  the 
fruit,  and  throw  away  the  seeds.  Add  the  sugar,  and  hoil  the  whole  ten  min- 
utes. A  little  currant-juice  giyes  it  a  pleasant  flavor,  and  when  that  is  used, 
an  equal.quantity  of  sagar  must  be  added. 

Currant  Jelly. — ^Pick  over  the  currants  with  care.    Put  them  in  a  stone 

jar,  and  set  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.     Let  it  boil  till  the  fruit  is  very 

«  soft     Strain  it  through  a  sieve.    Then  run  the  juice  through  a  jelly-bag. 

Put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  it 'together  five  ininptes. 

Set  it  in  the  sun  a  few  days.    If  it  stops  boiling,  it  is  less  likely  to  turn  to  jelly. 

Qninoe  Xannalade. — Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth,  cut  them  in  quarters. 
Put  them  on  the  fire  with  a  little  water,  and  stew  them  till  they  are  sufficient- 
ly tender  to  rub  them  through  a  sieve.  When  strained,  put  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  the  pulp.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  cook  slowly.  To  ascer- 
tain when  it  is  done,  take  out  a  little  and  let  it  get  cold,  and  if  it  cuts  smooth- 
ly, it  is  done. 

Crab-apple  marmalade  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Crab-apple  jelly  is  made  like  quince  jelly. 

Most  other  fruits  are  preservisd  so  much  like  the  preceding  that  it  is  need- 
less to  give  any  more  particular  directions  than  to  say  that  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  fruit  is  the  general  rule  for  all  preserves  that  are  to  fie  kq>t 
through  warm  weather  and  a  long  time. 

Preserved  Watermelon  Binds. — This  a  fine  article  to  keep  well  without 
trouble  for  a  long  time.  Peel  the  melon,  and  boil  it  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover  it  till  it  is  soft,  trying  with  a  fork.  (If  you  wish  it  green,  put  green 
vine-leaves  above  and  below  each  layer,  and  scatter  pow-dered  alum,  less  than 
half  a  tea-spoonfal  to  each  pound.) 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind,  and  clarify  it  as  directed 
previously. 

Simmer  the  rinds  two  hours  in  this  sirup,  and  flavor  it  with  lemon-peel 
grated  and  tied  in  a  bag.  Then  put  the  melon  in  a  tureen,  and  boil  the  sirup 
till  it  looks  thick,  and  pour  it  oven  Next  day,  give  the  sirup  another  boil- 
ing, and  put  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  each  quart  of  sirup.  Take  care  not  to 
make  it  bitter  by  too  much  of  the  peel. 

Citrons  are  preserved  in  the  same  manner.  Both  these  keep  through  hot 
weather  with  very  little  care  in  sealing  and  keeping. 

Presenred  Pamplrin.— Cut  a  thick  yellow  pumpkin,  peeled,  into  strips  two 
inches  wide  and  five  or  six  long. 

Take  a  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  apd  scatter  it  over  the 
firuit,  and  pour  on  two  wine-glasses  of  lemon-juice  for  each  pound  of  pumpkin. 

Next  day,  put  the  parings  of  one  or  ^two  lemons  with  the  fruit  and  sugar, 
and  boil  the  whole  three  qaarters  of  an  hour,  or  long  enough  to  make  it  ten- 
der and  clear  without  breaking;  Lay  the  pumpkin  to  cool,  strain  the  sirup, 
and  then  pour  it  on  to  the  pumpkin. 

If  there  is  too  much  lemon-peel,  it  will  be  bitter.  .  ^ 


DSSSEBTB  AND  SVENIKG  PABTIS8.  95 


CHAPTER  XVUL 

DE8SBBTS  AND   EVENING  PABTIES. 

lod'Creiin. — One  quart  of  mQk.  One  and  a  half  table-spooDfuls  of  arrow- 
foot.    The  grated  peel  of  two  lemons.     One  qoart  of  thick  cream. 

Wet  the  arrow»root  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  qoart  of  inilk 
when  boiling  hot ;  sweeten  it  very  sweet  with  white  sagar,  put  in  the  grated 
lemdi-peel,  boil  the  whole,  and  strain  it  into  the  qoart  of  cream.  When 
partly  froien,  add  the  joice  of  the  two  lemons.  Twice  this  qoandty  is  enough 
for  thirtj-fire  persons.  Find  the  qoantity  of  sogar  that  soits  yoa  by  measure, 
and  then  yoa  can  use  this  every  time,  without  tasting.  Some  add  whites  of 
eggs ;  others  think  it  just  as  good  without.  It  must  be  made  very  sweet,  as 
it  loees  much  by  freezing. 

If  yon  bare  no  apparatus  for  freezing,  (which  is  almo$t  indispensable),  put 
the  cream  into  a  tin  pail  with  a  very  tight  cover,  mix  equal  quantities  of  snow 
and  blown  salt,  (not  the  coarse  salt),  or  of  pounded  ice  and  salt,  in  a  tub,  and 
Iftit  it  OM  high  (u  thepcUly  or  Jrteztr;  turn  the  pail  or  freezer  half  round  and 
back  again  with  one  hand,  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer,  if  yoa  want  it  very 
nice.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  steadily  will  make  it  good  enough.  While 
doing  this,  stop  four  or  five  times,  and  mix  the  frozen  part  with  the  rest,  the 
last  time  very  thoroughly,  and  then  the  lemon-juice  must  be  put  in.  Then 
cover  the  freezer  tight  with  snow  and  salt  till  it  is  wanted.  The  mi.xture 
most  ber  perfectly  cool  before  being  pnt  in  the  freezer.  Benew  the  snow  and 
■alt  wldle  shaking,  so  as  to  have  it  kept  tight  to  the  sides  of  the  freezer.  A 
hole  in  the  tub  holding  the  freezing  mixture,  to  let  off  the  water,  is  a  great 
advantage.  .  In  a  tin  pail  it  would  take  much  longer  to  freeze  than  ia  the 
fireeser,  probably  nearly  twice  as  long.  A  long  stick,  like  a  cofiee-stick,  • 
should  be  used  in  scraping  the  ice  from  the  sides.  Iron  spoons  will  be  affect- 
ed by  the  lemon-juice,  and  give  a  bad  taste. 

In  takitfl^  it  out  for  use,  first  wipe  off  eveiy  particle  of  the  freezing  mixture 
dry,  then  with  a  knife  loosen  the  sides,  then  invert  the  freezer  upon  the  dish 
in  whidi  the  ibe  is  to  be  served,  and  apply  two  towels  wrung  out  of  hot  water 
to  the  bottom  part,  and  the  whole  will  slide  out  in  the  shape  of  a  cylinder. 
Freezers  are  now  sold  quite  cheap,  and  such  as  freeze  in  a  short  time. 

Strawbarzy  loe-Cream. — Bub  a  pint  of  ripe  strawberries  through  a  sieve, 
add  a  pint  of  cream,  and  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  freeze  it.  Oth- 
er fruits  may  be  used  thus. 

Tee  Creim  withont  Cream.— A  vanilla  bean  or  a  lemon  rind  is  first  boiled 
in  a  quart  of  milk.    Take  out  the  bean  or  peel,  and  add;  the  yelks  of  (bur 


96  THE  H0U8EKKEPSB  AKD  HSALTHSJSSPBB. 

eggs,  beaten  well.    Heat  it  scalding  hot,  bot  do  not  boil  it,  stirring  in  white 
sogar  till  venf  sweet.    When  cold,  freeze  it. 

Froit  Ibe-Cream.— >fake  rich  boiled  casUrd,  and  mash  into  it  the  soft  ripe 
frnit,  or  the  grated  or  cooked  hard  fruit,  or  grated  pine-apples.  Bob  all 
throogh  a-  siere,  sweeten  it  very  sweet,  and  freese  it.  Qaince,  apple,  pear, 
peach,  strawberry,  and  raspberry  are  all  very  good  for  this  pnipose. 

A  Cream  for  sttfwed  Fmit— Boil  two  or  three  peach  leaves,  or  a  yanilla 
bean,  in  a  qoart  of  cream,  or  milk,  till  flavored.  Strain  and  sweeten  it,  mix 
it  with  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten;  then,  while  heating  it,  add  the 
whites  cot  to  a  frotli.  When  it  thickens  take  it  op.  When  cool,  poor  it 
over  the  frnit  or  preserves. 

Corrant,  Baipberzy,  or  Strawberry  Whiik.— Pot  three  gills  of  the  joice 
of  the  frnit  to  ten  onnces  of  crashed  sogar,  add  the  joice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  cream.  Whisk  it  till  quite  thick,  and  serve  it  in  jelly- 
glasses  or  a  glass  dish. 

Lemonade  lee,  and  other  Ibei.^^To  a  qoart  of  lemonade,  add  the  whites 
of  six  eggs,  cot  to  a  froth,  and  freeze  it.  The  juices  of  any  froit,  sweetened 
and  watered,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  and  are  very  fine. 

Chailotte  Boise. — One  oonce  of  gelatine  simmered  in  half  a  pint  of  milk 
or  water,  four  ounces  of  sogar  beat  into  the  yelks  of  foor  eggs,  and  added  to 
the  gelatine  when  dissolved.  Then  add  a  pint  of  cream  or  new  milk.  Last- 
ly, add  the  whites  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  all  together.  Line  a  mold  with 
slices  of  sponge-^cake  and  set  it  on  ice,  and  when  the  cream  is  a  little  thick- 
ened, fill  the  mold ;  let  it  stand  five  or  six  hoorS,  and  then  turn  it  into  a  dish. 

Xlammerj.— Cut  sponge^ke  into  thin  slices,  and  line  a  de^  dish.  Make 
it  moist  wiUi  white  wine;  make  a  rich  costard,  using  only  the  yelks  of  the 
eggs.  When  cool,  turn  it  into  the  dish,  and  cut  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  put  on  the  top.    " 

Chieken  Salad. — Cut  the  white  meat  of  chickens  into  small  bits  the  siie 
of  peas.    Chop  ihe  white  parts  of  celery  nearly  as  small 

Prepare  a  dressing  thus :  rub  the  yelks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth;  to 
each  yelk  put  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  liquid  mostard,  the  same  quantity  of  aUt, 
a  table-spoonfol  of  oil  mixed  in  very  slowly  and  thorooghly,  and  half  a  wine- 
glass of  vinegar.  Mix  the  chicken  and  celeiy  in  a  laiige  bowl,  and  pour  over 
this  dressing. 

The  dresdng  must  not  be  put  on  till  just  before  it  is  used.  Bread  and  but- 
ter and  crackers  are  served  with  it.  - 

Wine  Jelly.— Two  ounces  of  American  isinglass  or  gektine.  One  quart  of 
boiling  water.    A  pint  and  a  half  of  white  wine.    The  whites  of  three  eggs. 


'    DESSEBTS  AUD  bteninq  p^bties.  97 

Soak  tfafl  geUtiae  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Then  take  it  6om  the  wat«r, 
and  poor  on  ths  qoart  of  boiling  water.  When  cooled,  add  the  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon,  and  the  jaice  of  two,  and  a  ponad  and  a  half  of  loaf-mgar. 
Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eftgs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  them  in,  and  let  IIm 
whole  boil  till  the  (^  ia  well  mixed,  but  do  not  stir  while  it  boils.  Stnin 
thtongh  a  jellj-b«£,  and  then  add  the  wine. 

In  cdd  WMtber,  a  pint  more  of  water  maj  l>e  added.  Thia  jellj  eta  be 
adored  bj  beet-jtiice,  saffron,  or  indigo,  for  fsni^  dishea. 

Aii.  AjipU  Lemon  Fadding. — Kx  spoonfals  of  grated,  or  of  cooked  and 
ttialned,  a{q>le>  Three  lemons,  ptilp,  hud,  and  juice,  idl  gniied.  Half  % 
pound  of  melted  bntter.     Sugar  to  the  taate.     Seren  <«bs  well  be»ten. 

Mix,  and  bake  with  or  withoat  paste.  It  can  be  made  still  plainer  bj 
dring-oine  spoonfuls  df  apple,  one  lemon,  two  thirds  of  a  cap  fiill  of  hotter, 
«nd  thtee  eggs. 

Wheet  RStti  21anftJ(ange.-^Wet  ap  six  tabl»4pooiifal*  of  floor  to  ■  thin 
pasta  with  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  ~  Flaror  with 
leBon-peel  or  peach-leaves  boiled  in  the  milk.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  cool  it  in 
»  mold,  and  eat  with  sweetened  cream  and  sweetmeats. 

Omg*  KtraialtdiL — Take  two  lemona  and  a  dozen  orangee ;  grate  the 
j«llow  rinds  of  all  the  orangee  bat  five,  and  set  it  adde.  Hake  a.clear  simp 
of  ea  eqnal  weight  otsngar.  Qear  the  praogea  of  tind  and  seeds,  pot  them 
with  the  gnttd  rinds  into  the  simp,  and  boil  shoot  tifcn^  minntM  till  it  is  a 


A  di^e  Lanm  JUlj,  (easil/  made.) — One  onnce  of  gelatine.  A  pound 
and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar.     Three  lemoos,  palp,  skin,  and  joice,  grated. 

Poor  a  qnart  of  boiling  water  npon  the  isin^ass,  add  the  rest,  mix  nod 
•train  it,  then  add  a  glass  of  wina,  and  ponr  it  to  cool  in  some  regular  iom. 
If  the  lemons  are  not  fresh,  add  a  little  cream  of  tartar  or  tartaric  acid. 

Granbvrrj. — Fonr  boiling  water  on  them,  and  then  jioo  can  eaailj  separate 
the  good  and  the  bad.  Boil  ifiem  in  a  rerj  IlttJe  water  till  soft,  then  sweeten 
to  TOW  taste.     If  yon  wish  a  jeltj,  take  a  portion  and  strain  throogh  a  One 


Apple  Lm,  (very  fine.)— Take  flnely-fiaTored  apples,  grate  them  fine,  and 
than  make  them  very  sweet,  and  freeze  them.     It  is  Terj  deljcioas. 

Pears,  peaches,  or  qniaces  also  are  nice,  either  grated  fine  or  stewed  and 
nm  throogh  a  aere,  then  sweetened  irtnf  sweet,  and  froien.  The  flavor  is 
mnch  better  preserred  when  grated  than  when  cooked. 

VUp  SyllJt^b.— One 
Half  a  tumbler  of  white 
Beat  an  to  a  stiff  froth. 


98  THB   HOUSEKBEPEB  AND  HEAI/THEJEXPSB. 

Apple  Snow. — Pat  six  Teiy  tart  apples  in  cold  water  oree  a  slow  fire. 
Wbea  soft,  take  away  the  skins  and  cores  and  mix  in  a  pint  of  sifted  white 
sugar ;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  add  them  to  the 
apples  and  sugar.  Put  it  in  a  dessert-dish  and  ornament  with  myrtle  and 
box. 

loed  Fruit — ^Take  fine  bunches  of  currants  on  the  stalk,  dip  them  in  weU- 
beaten  whites  of  dggs,  lay  them  on  a  sieve  and  sift  white  sugar  oyer  them,  and 
net  them  in  a  warm  places  to  diy. 

Ornamental  Troth. — ^The  whites  of  four  eggs  in  a  stiff  froth,  put  into  the 
.  sirup  of  presenred  raspberries  or  strawberries,  beaten  well  together,  and  turned 
over  ice-cream  or  blanc-mange.    Make  white  froth  to  combine  with  the  col- 
ored in  fimdfhl  ways.    It  can  be  put  on  the  top  of  boiling  milk,  and  hardened 
to  keep  its  form. 

To  oUriiy  Mnglaii. — Dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  cup  of  boiling 
water,  take  off  the  scum,  and  drain  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Jellies,  candies^ 
and  blanc-mange  should  be  done  m  brass  and  stirred  with  silrer. 

Blano-Kaage. — ^Two  and  a  half  sheets  of  gdatine  broken  into  one  quart  of 
milk ;  put  in  a  warm  place  and  stir  till  it  dissolves.  An  ounce  and  a  half  of 
clarified  isinglass  stirred  into,  the  milk.  Sugar  to  your  taste.  A  tea-spoon- 
ful of  fine  salt.  FUvor  with,  lemon,  or  orange,  or  rose-water.  Let  it  boH, 
stirring  it  well,  then  strain  it  into  molds. 

Three  ounces  of  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste  and  added  while  boiling  is 
an  improvement.  Or  filberts  or  hickoiy-nnts  can  be  skinned  and  used  thus. 
It  can  be  flavored  by  boiling  in  it  a  vanilla  bean  or  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  (Save 
the  bean  to  use  again.) 

Apple  Jelly.  ~Boil  tart  peeled  apples  in  a  little  water  till  glutinous ;  strain 
out  the  juice,  and  put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  juice,    flavor  ^ 
to  your  taste,  boil  till  a  good  jelly,  and  then  put  it  into  molds. 

Orange  Jelly. — ^The  juice  of  nine  oranges  and  three  lemons.  The  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  and  one  orange,  pared  thin.  Two  quarts  of  water,  and 
four  ounces  of  gelatine  broken  up  and  boiled  in  it  to-a  jelly.  Add  the  above, 
and  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Then  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs^  well  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  boil  ten  roiautes ;  strain  and  put  into  molds,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water.  When  perfectly  cold,  dip  the  mold  in  warm  water,  and  turn 
on^to  a  glass  dish. 

Floating  Island. -^Beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  with  the  juice  of  four  lemons, 
sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  and  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  ti^  it  thickens, 
then  pour  it  into  a  dish.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  fix>th,  and 
put  it  on  the  top  of  the  cream. 


DESSERTS   AND   EVENING   PARTIES.  99 

A  Diih  of  Snow. — Grate  the  white  part  of  cocoa-nut,  pat  it  in  a  glana  dish, 
and  serre  with  oranges  sliced  and  sngared,  or  with  carrant  or  cranbeny  jel- 
lies. 

To  eUrify  Bogar. — ^Take  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and  break  it  up.  Whisk 
the  white  of  an  egg}  And  pot  it  Tifith  a  tamblerful  of  water  into  a  preserving, 
pan,  and  add  water  gradoallj  till  joa  have  two  quarts,  stirring  well.  When 
there  is  a  good  frothing,  throw  in  the  sugar,  boil  moderately,  and  skim  it. 
If  the  sagar  rises  to  mn  over,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  skim  it, 
as  it  is  then  stilL  Repeat  this,  and  when  no  more  scam  rises,  strain  the  su- 
gar fornse. 

GtBdied  Fruits. — ^Preserve  the  fruit,  then  dip  it  in  sugar  boiled  to  candy 
thickness,  and  then  dry  it.  Grapes  and  some  other  fruits  may  be  dipped  in 
uncooked,  and  then  dried,  and  they  are  fine. 

Another  Way. — Take  it  from  the  sirup,  when  preserved,  dip  it  in  powdered 
sagar,  and  set  it  on  a  sieve  in  an  oven  to  dry. 

To  Bike  to  Ornamental  Pyramid  for  a  TaUe.— Boil  loaf-sugar  as  for  can- 
dy, and  rob  it  over  ^  stiff  form  made  for  the  purpose,  of  stiff  paper  or  paste- 
board, which  must  be  well  buttered.  Set  it  on  a  table,  and  begin  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  stick  on  to  this  frame  with  the  sugar,  a  row  of  macaroons, 'kisses,  or 
other  ornamental  articles,  and  continue  till  the  whole  is  covered.  When  cold, 
draw  oat  the  pasteboard  form,  and  set  the  pyramid  in  the  centre  of  the  table 
with  a  small  bit  of  wax-candle  baming  with  it,  and  it  looks  very  beautifully. 


100    '  THE  HOUSEKBBPSB  AND  HBALTHKSEPBB. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

DRINKS  Ain>  ASnCLES  FOB  THE   SICK  AND  TOUNG  CHILDB9N. 

Drinks  made  of  the  juice  of  fruits  and  water  are  good  for 
all  who  ai*e  in  health.  Various  preparations  of  "cocoa-nuts 
are  so  also.  Tea  is  often  made  or  adulterated  with  un- 
heal thful  articles.  Coffee  is  usually  drank  so  strong  as  to 
injure  children  and  grown  persons  of  delicate  constitution. 
All  alcoholic  drinks  are  dangerous,  because  they  are  so  gen- 
erally mixed  with  harmful  matter,  and  because  they  so  often 
lead  to  excess,  and  then  to  ruin.  The  common-sense  maxim 
is,  when  there  is  danger,  choose  the  safest  coui*8e.  The 
Cliristian  maxim  is,  •*  We  that  are  strong  ought  to  bear  the 
infirmities  of  the  weak,  and  not  to  please  oui-selves." 

Obedience  to  these  two  maxims  would  save  thousands  of 
young  children  and  delicate  persons  from  following  the  dan- 
gerous example  of  those  "  that  are  Strong." 

To  make  Tea.— The  safest  tea  is  the  black,  as  less  stimulating  than  green ; 
both  excite  the  brain  and  nerves  when  strong.  The  chief  direction  is  to  have 
water  boiling  hot  First  soak  the  tea  in  a  veiy  little  hot  water,  and  then  add 
boiling  water. 

To  make  Collbe. — Boast  it  slowly  in  a  tight  vessel,  and  so  it  can  be  stirred 
often.  To  roast  all  equally  a  dark  brown  and  have  none  horned,  is  the  main 
thing.  Keep  it  in  a  tight  box,  or,  better,  grind  it  fresh  when  used.  Clear 
it  by  patting  into  it,  when  making,  a  fresh  egg-shell  crashed,  or  the  white  of 
an  egg,  or  a  small  bit  of  fish-skin.  Some  filter,  and  some  boil ;  and  there 
are  cofiRse-pots  made  for  each  method,  and  some  that  reqaire  nothing  pat  in 
to  dear  the  coffee.  The  aroma  is  retained  jost  in  proportion  as  the  cofi^  is 
confined,  both  before  making  and  also  wh^le  making.  ^ 

Fiik-flkin  for  Coffee. — ^Take  it  from  codfish  before  cooking ;  have  it  nice 
and  dry.     Cot  in  inch  squares,  and  take  one  for  two  quarts  of  coffee. 

Coooa. — The  cracked  is  best.  Put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  it  into  three  pints 
of  cold  water.  Boil  an  hour  for  first  use,  save  the  remnants  and  boil  it  .again, 
as  it  is  very  strongs  Do  this  several  times.  For  ground  cocoa  ase  two  table- 
spoonfols  to  a  qiuart,  and  boil  half  an  hour.     Boil  the  milk  by  itaelf,  and  add 


DBINKS,  ETa  101 

it  Kberall/  when  taken  ap.    For  the  shells  of  cocoa,  use  a  heaping  tea-capful 
for  a  qaart  of  water.     Pat  them  in  over  night  and  boil  a  long  time. 

Cream  for  Coffee  and  Tea. — Heat  new  milk,  and  let  it  stand  till  cool  and 
aU  the  cream  rises ;  this  is  the  best  way  for  common  ase.  To  every  pint  of 
this  add  a  poand  and  a  quarter  of  loaf-sagar,  and  it  will  keep  good  a  month 
or  more,  if  corked  tight  in  glass. 

ChoeoUte. — Pat  three  table-spoonfuls  when  scraped  to  each  pint,  boil  half 
an  hoar,  and  add  boiled  milk  when  used. 

BeUdona  Kilk-Lemonade.— Half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine  and  as  much  lem- 
on-jaice,  six  ounces  loaf-sagaf,  and  a  pint  of  water  poured  in  when  boiling. 
Add  not  quite  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  strain  the  whole. 

Strawberry  and  Baipberry  Yinejgar. — Mix  four  pounds  of  the  fruit  with 
three  quarts  of  cider  or  wine  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  three  days.  Drain 
the  vinegar  through  a  jelly-bag  and  add  four  more  pounds  of  fruit,  and  in  three 
days  do  the  same.  Then  strain  out  the  vinegar  for  summer  drinks,  efferves- 
cing with  soda  or  only  with  water. 

White  Tea,  and  Haj^  Coffee  for  Children. — Children  never  love  tea  and 
coffee  till  they  are  trained  to  it  They  always  like  these  drinks.  Put  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  add  as  much  good  mOk. 
Or  crumb  toast  or  diy  bread  into  a  bowl  with  plenty  of  sugar,  and  add  half 
milk  to  half  boiling  water. 

• 

Dangerona  Use  of  MUk, — Milk  is  not  only  drink,  but  rich  food.  It  there- 
fore should  not  be  used  as  drink  with  other  food,  as  is  water  or  tea  and  cof- 
fee. Persons  often  cause  bilious  difficulties  by  using  milk  in  addition  to  ordi- 
nary food  as  the  chief  drink.  It  is  a  well-established  fiict  that  some  grown 
persons  as  well  as  young  children  can  not  drink  milk,  and  in  some  cases  can 
not  eat  bread  wet  with  milk,  without  trouble  from  it. 

flUnpIe  Drinks. — Pour  boiling  water  on  mashed  cranberries,  or  grated  ap- 
ples, or  tamarinds,  or  mashed  currants  or  raspberries,  pour  off  the  water, 
sweeten,  and  in  summer  cool  with  ice. 

Poor  boiling  water  on  to  bread  toasted  quite  brown,  or  on  to  pounded 
parched  com,  boil  a  minute,  strain,  and  add  sugar  and  cream,  -or  milk. 

Simple  Wine  Whey.— Mix  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  boiling  water,  add 
wine  and  sweeten.  .    .   ' 

Toast  and  Cider. — Take  one  third  brisk  cider  and  two  thirds  cold  water, 
-sweeten  it,  cnimb  in  toasted  br^d,  and  grate  on  a  little  nutmeg.  Add  jelly 
will  do  when  cider  is  not  at  hand. 


102    '  THB  B0U8EKSEPEB  AND  HEALTHKSSPEB. 

Panada. — Tonst  two  or  three  crackers,  pour  on  boiling  water  and  let  It 
simmer  two  or  three  minates,  add  a  welUbaiten  egg,  sweeten  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg. 

Water-OrneL^^>Scald  half  a  tamblerfol  of  fresh  ground  corn-meal,  add  a 
table-spoonfdl  of  floor  made  into  a  paste,  boil  twenty  minutes  or  more,  and 
add  salt,  sagar,  and  natmeg.     Oat-meal  gmel  is  excellent  made  thus. 

Beef-Tea. — Pepper  and  salt  some  good  beef  cut  into  small  pieces,  pour  on 
boiling  water  and  steep  half  an  hour.  A  better  way  is  to  pnf  the  meat  thus 
prepared  into  a  bottle  kept  in  boiling  water  for  four  or  fire  hours. 

Tomato  8irap.^-Pot  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  juice,  bottle  it,  and  use 
for  a  beverage  with  water. 

Sasiafras  Jellj. — Soak  the  pith  of  sassafras  till  a  jelly,  and  add  a  little 
sugar. 

Egg  Tea,  Egflf  Coffbe,  and  E^  Xilk.— Beat  the  yelk  of  an  egg  in  some  su- 
gar and  a  little  salt ;  add  either  cold  tea  or  coffee  or  milk.  Then  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add.  Flavor  the  milk  with  wine.  Some  do  not 
like  the  taste  of  raw  egg,  and  so  the  other  articles  niay  first  be  made  boiling 
hot  before  the  white  is  put  in. 

OatFMeal  Gruel. — Four  table-spoonfuls  of  ffriu,  (unbolted  oat-meal,)  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Skim,  sweeten,  and  flavor.  Or 
make  a  thin  batter  of  fine  oat-meal,  and  pour  into  boiling  water;  then 
sweeten  and  flavor  it. 

Pearl  Barley- Water. — Boil  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  pearl  barley  ten  min- 
utes in  half  a  pint  of  water,  strain  it,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  boil  it 
down  to  half  the  quantity,  strain,  sweeten,  and  flavor  with  sliced  lemon  or 
nutmeg. 

Cream  Tartar  Bayerage. — Pot  two  even  tea-spoonfols  cream  tartar  to  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  lemon-peel. 

Bonnet  Whey,  (good  for  a  weak  stomach  after  severe  illness.) — Soak 
rennet  two  inches  square  one  hour,  add  half  a  gill  of  water  and  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  then  pour  it  into  a  pint  of  warm  (not  hot)  milk.  Let  ifr  stand  half  an 
hour,  then  cut  it,  and  af^r  an  hour  drain  off  the  liquid.  Let  it  stand  awhile, 
and  drain  off  more  whey. 

Befreahing  Drink  for  a  Fever.— Mix  sprigs  of  sage,  balm,  and  sorrel  with 
half  a  sliced  lemon,  the  skin  on.    Pour  on  boiling  water,  sweeten  and  cork  it 


PROVIDING  'AND  CAKE   OF  FAMILY  STORES.    .  103 


CHAPTER  XX. 

THE  PROVIDING  AND  CARE  OF  FAMILY  STORES. 

The  art  of  keeping  a  good  table  consists  not  in  loading  on 
a  variety  at  each  meal,  bat  rather  in  securing  a  successive 
variety,  a  table  neatly  and  tastefully  set,  and  every  thing 
that  is  on  it  cooked  in  the  best  manner. 

There  are  some  families  who  provide  an  abundance  of  the 
most  expensive  and  choice  articles,  and  spare  no  expense  in 
any  respect,  yet  who  have  every  thing  cooked  in  such  a  miser- 
able way,  and  a  table  set  in  so  slovenly  a  manner,  that  a  per- 
son accustomed  to  a  reaUt/  good  table  can  scarcely  taste  a 
morsel  with  any  enjoyment 

On  the  contrary,  there  are  many  tables  where  the  closest 
economy  is  practiced ;  and  yet  the  table-cloth  is  so  white  and 
smooth,  the  dishes,  silver,  glass,  and  other  table  articles  so 
bright,  and  arranged  with  such  propriety ;  the  bread  so  light 
and  sweet;  the  butter  so  beautiful,  and  every  other  article 
of  food  so  well  cooked,  and  so  neatly  and  tastefully  served, 
that  every  thing  seems  good,  and  pleases  both  the  eye  and 
the  palate. 

A  -habit  of  doing  every  thing  in  the  best  manner  is  of  un- 
speakable importance  to  a  housekeeper,  and  every  woman 
ought  to  aim  at  it,  however  great  the  difficulties  she  may 
have  to  meet.  If  a  young  housekeeper  commences  with  a  de- 
termination to  try  to  do  every  thing  in  the  best  manner,  and 
perseveres  in  the  effort,  meeting  all  obstacles  with  patient 
cheerfulness,  not  only  the  moral  but  the  intellectual  tone  of 
her  mind  is  elevated  by  the  attempt.  Although  she  may 
meet  many  insuperable  difficulties,  and  may  never  reach  the 
standard  at  which  she  aims,  the  simple  effort^  persevered  in, 
will  have  an  elevating  influence  on  her  character;  while,  at 
the  same  time,  she  actually  will  reach  a  point  of  exoellence 
far  ahead  of  those  who,  discouraged  by  ipany  obstacles,  give 
up  in  despair,  and  resolve  to  make  no  more  efforts,  and  let 


104  THS  H0U8EKEEPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

things  go  as  they  will.  The  grand  distinction  between  a 
noble  and  an  ignoble  mind  is,  that  one  will  control  circam- 
stances;  the  other  yields,  and  allows  circumstances  to  con- 
trol her,  f 

It  should  be  bornei  in  mind  that  the  constitution  of  man 
demands  a  variety  of  food,  and  that  it  is  just  as  cheap  to 
keep  on  hand  a  good  variety  of  materials  in  the  store-closet, 
BO  as  to  make  a  frequent  change,  as  it  is  to  buy  one  or  two 
articles  at  once,  and  live  on  them  exclusively,  till  every  per- 
son is  tired  of  them,  and  then  buy  two  or  three  more  of  an- 
other kind. 

It  is  too  frequently  the  case  that  families  fall  into  a  very 
limited  round  of  articles,  and  continue  the  same  coui*se  from 
one  year  to  another,  when  there  is  a  much  greater  variety 
within  reach  of  articles  which  are  just  as  cheap  and  as  easily 
obtained,  and  yet  remain  nnthought  of  and  untouched. 

A  thrifty  and  generous  provider  will  see  that  her  store- 
closet  is  furnished  %vith  such  a  variety  of  articles  that  suc- 
cessive changes  can  be  made,  and  for  a  good  length  of  time. 
To  aid  in  this,  a  slight  sketch  of  a  well-provided  store-closet 
will  be  given,  with  a  description  of  the  manner  in  which 
each  article  should  be  stored  and  kept,  in  order  to  avoid 
waste  and  injury.  To  this  will' be  added  modes  of  securing 
a  mccessive  variety  within  the  reach  of  all  in  moderate  cir- 
cumstances. 

It  is  best  to  have  a  store-closet  open  from  the  kitchen,  be- 
cause the  kitchen  Ifire  keeps  the  atmosphere  dry,  and  this 
prevents  the  articles  stored  from  molding,  and  other  injury 
from  dampness.  Yet  it  must  not  be  kept  warm,  as  there  are 
many  articles  which  are  injured  by  warmth. 

A  cool  and  dry  place  is  indispensable  for  a  store-room,  and 
a  small  window  over  the  door,^nd  another  opening  out- 
doors, give  a  great  advantage,  by  secui-ing  coolness  and  cir- 
culation of  fresh  air. 

FUmr  should  be  kept  in  a  barrel,  with  a  flour-scoop  to  dip 
it,  a  sieve  to  sift  it,  and  a  pan  to  hold  the  sifted  flour,  either 
in  the  barrel  or  clo^e  at  hand.  The  barrel  should  have  a 
tight  coyer  to  keep  out  mice  and  vermin.  It  is  best  to  find, 
by  trial,  a  lot  of  first-rate  flour,  and  then  buy  a  year's  sup- 


PBOVIBIKG  AND   CABB   OF  FAMILY  STOBES.  105 

ply.  Bat  this  should  not  be  done  unless  there  ai*e  aQcom- 
raodations  for  keeping  it  dry  and  cool,  and  protecting  it 
from  vermin. 

UnboUed  flour  should  be  stored  in  kegs  or  covered  tubs, 
and  always  be  kept  on  hand  as  regularly  as  fine  flour.  It 
should  be  bought  only  when  freshly  ground,  and  only  in 
moderate  quantities,  as  it  losea  sweetness  by  keeping. 

Indian  meal  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities,  say 
fifteen  or  twenty  pounds  at  a  time,  and  be  kept  in  a  covered 
tub  or  keg.  It  is  always  improved  by  scalding.  It  must 
be  kept  very  cool  and  dry,  and  if  occasionally  stiiTcd,  is  pre- ' 
served  more  surely  from  growing  sour  or  musty.  Fresh 
ground  is  best. 

Rye  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  say  forty  or 
fifty  pounds  at  a  time,  and  be  kept  in  a  keg  or  half-barrel, 
with  a  cover. 

Buckwheat^  mceySbmini/^  ^nd  Oround  JRxce  must  be  pur- 
chased in  small  quantities,  and  kept  in  covered  kegs  or  tubs. 
Several  of  these  articles  are  infested  with  small  black  insects, 
and  examination  must  occasionally  be  made  for  them. 

Arrowroot^  Tapioca^  Sago^  Pearl  Barley^  Pearl  Wheat^ 
Cracked  Wheat^  American  linnglasSy  Macaroni^  Vermicelli^ 
and  Oat-meal  are  all  articles  which  help  to  make  an  agreea- 
ble variety,  and  it  is  just  as  cheap  to  buy  a  small  quantity 
of  each  as  it  is  to  buy  a  lai'ger  quantity  of  two  or  three  ar- 
ticles. Eight  or  ten  pounds  of  each  of  these  'articles  of  food 
can  be  stor^  in  covered  jars  or  covered  wood  boxes,  and 
then  they  are  always  at  hand  to  help  to  make  a  variety. 
^1  of  them  are  very  healthful  food,  and  help  to  form  nrany 
delightful  dishes  for  desserts.  Some  of  the  most  healthful 
puddings  are  those  made  of  rice,  tapioca,  sago,  and  maca- 
roni ;  while  isinglass,  or  American  gelatine,  forms  elegant  ar- 
ticles for  desserts,  and  is  also  excellent  for  the  sick. 

Sugars  should  not  be  bought  by  the  barrel,  as  the  brown 
is  apt  to  turn  to  molasses,  and  run  out  on  to  the  floof.  He- 
fined  loaf  for  tea,  crushed  sugar  for  the  nicest  preserves  and 
to  use  with  fruit,  nice  brown  sugar  for  coffee,  and  common 
brown  for  more  common  use.  The  loaf  can  be  stored  in  the 
paper,  on  a  shelf.    The  others  should  be  kept  in  close  cov- 

6*     . 


106  .    THE  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHRSEPEB. 

ered  kegs,  or  covered  wooden  articles  made  for  the  pur- 
pose. 

Butter  must  be  kept  in  the  dryest  and  xoldest  place  you 
can  find,  in  vessels  of  either  stone,  earthen,  or  wood,  and 
never  in.  tin. 

Lard  and  Drippings  must  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cold  place, 
and  should  not  be  salted.  Usually  the  cellar  is  the  best 
place  for  them.  Earthen  or  stone  jars  are  the  best  to  store 
them  in. 

SaU  must  be  kept  in  the  dryest  place  that  can  be  found. 
Hock  salt  is  the  best  for  table^alt.  It  should  be  washed, 
dried,  pounded,  sifted,  and  stoi*ed  in  a  glass  jar,  and  covered 
close.  It  is  common  to  find  it  growing  damp  in  the  saU- 
stands  for  the  table.  It  sjiould  then  be  set  by  the  fire  to  dry, 
and  afterward  be  reduced  to  fine  powder  again.  Few  things 
ai*e  more  disagreeable  than  coarse  or  damp  salt  on  a  table. 

Vinegar  is  best  made  of  wine  or  cider.  Buy  a  keg  or  half- 
barrel  of  it,  and  set  it  in  the  cellar,  and  then  keep  a  supply 
for  the  casters  in  a  bottle  in  the  kitchen.  If  too  strong,  it 
eats  th^e  pickles.  Much  manufactured  vinegar  is  sold  that 
ruins  pickles,  and  is  unhealthful. 

.    Pickles  never  must  be  kept  in  glazed  ware,  as  the  vinegar 
forms  a  poisonous  compound  with  th^  glazing. 

Oil  must  be  kept  in  the  cellar.  Winter-strained  must  be 
got  in  cold  weather,  as  the  sumrner-strained  vf\\\  not  bum 
except  in  wai*m  weather.  Those  who  use  kerosene  oil  should 
never  trust  it  with  heedless  servants  or  children.  Never  fill 
lamps  with  it  at  night,  nor  allow  servants  to  kindle  fire  with 
it,  or  to  fill  a  lamp  with  it  when  lighted.  Inquire  fop  the 
safest  pattern  of  lamps,  and  learn  all  the  dangers  to  be 
avoided,  and  the  cautions  needful  in  the  use  of  this  most 
dangerous  explosive  oil.  Neglect  this  caution,  and  yon 
probably  will  be  a  sorrowful  mourner  all  your  life  for  the 
sufferings  or  death  of  some  dear  friend. 

Mol!Usses^\£ hoWg\it  by  the  barrel  or  half-barrel, should  be 
kept  in  the  cellar.  If  bought  in  small  quantities,  it  should 
be  kept  in  a  demijohn.  No  vessel  should  be  corked  or 
bunged,  if  filled  with  molasses,  as  it  will  swell  and  burst  the 
vessel,  or  run  oyer. 


PBOYIDma  AND  CABB   OF  FAMILT  8T0BBS.  107 

Sard  Soap  should  be  bought  by  large  quantity,  and  laid 
to  harden  on  a  shelf  in  a  very  dry  place.  It  is  much  more 
economical  to  buy  hard  than  soft  soap,  as  those  who  use 
soft  soap  are  very  apt  to  waste  it  in  using  it,  as  they  can  not 
do  with  hard  soap. 

Starch  it  is  best  to  buy  by  a  large  quantity.  It  comes 
very  nicely  put  up  in  papers,  a  pound  or  two  in  each  paper, 
and  packed  in  a  box.  The  high-priced  starch  is  cheapest  in 
the  end. 

Indigo  is  not  always  good.  When  a  good  lot  is  found  by 
trial,  it  is  best  to  get  enough  for  a  year  or  two,  and  store  it 
in  a  tight  tin  box.  . 

Coffke  it  is  best  to  buy  by  the  bag,  as  it  improves  by 
keeping.  Let  it  hang  in  the  bag  in  a  dry  place,  and  it  loses 
its  rank  smell  and  taste.  It  is  poor  economy  to  buy  grpund 
coffee,  as  it  often  has  other  articles  mixed,  and  loses  flavor 
by  keeping  after  it  is  ground. 

TeUf  if  bought  by  the  box,  is  several  cents  a  pound  cheap? 
er  than  by  small  quantities.  If  well  put  up  in  boxes  lined 
with  lead,  it  keeps  perfectly ;  but  put  up  in  paper,  it  soon 
loses  its  flavor.  It  therefore  should,  if  in  small  quantities,  be 
put  up  in  glass  or  tin,  and  shut  tight. 

Soda  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  then  powdered, 
sifted,  and  kiept  tight  corked  in  a  large-mouth  glass  bottle. 
It  grows  damp  if  exposed  to  the  air,  and  then  can  not  be 
used  properly. 

Haisins  should  not  be  bought  in  large  quantities,  as  they 
are  injured  by  time.    It  is  best  to  buy  the  small  boxes.  . 

CurrarUs  for  cake  should  be  prepared,'  and  set  by  for  use 
in  ajar. 

Xemon  and  Orange  Peel  should  be  dried,  pounded,  and  set 
up  in  corked  glass  jars. 

Nutmeg y  Cinnamon^  Cloves^  Mace^  ku^  AUspice  should  bo 
pounded  flue,  and  corked  tight  in  small  glass  bottles,  with 
mouths  large  enough  for  a  junk-bottle  cofk,  and  then  put  in 
a  tight  tin  box,  made  for  the  purpose.  Or  they  can  be  put 
in  small  tin  boxes  with  tight  covers.  Essences  are  as  good 
as  spices. 

Suieet  JETerbs  should  be  dried,  the  stalks  thrown  away,  and 


108  THS  ^0U8BKSBPEB  AND.  HSiULTHKXEPBB. 

the  rest  be  kept  in  corked  large-moath  bottles,  or  small  tin 
boxes. 

Cream  Tartar^  Citric  and  Tartaric  AddSy  Bicarbonate  of 
Sodaj  and  JESssiences  should  be  kept  in  corked'glass  jars.  JSal 
volatile  must  be  kept  in  a  large-mouth  bottle,  with  a  ground- 
glass  stopper  to  make  it  air-tight  Use  cold  water  in  dis- 
solving it.    It  must  be  powdered. 

Jhreserves  and  c7e0ie«  should  be  kept  in  glass  or  stone,  in  a 
cool,  dry  place,  well  sealed,  or  tied  with  bladder  covers.  If 
properly  made  and  thus  put  up,  they  never  will  ferment.  If 
it  is  difficult  to  find  a  cool,  dry  place,  pack  the  jars  in  a  box, 
and  fill  the  interstices  with  sand,  very  thoroughly  dried.  It 
is  best  to  put  jellies  in  tumblers,  or  small  glass  jars,  so  as  to 
open  only  a  small  quantity  at  a  time. 

The  most  easy  way  of  keeping  Hdnu  perfectly  is  to  wrap 
and  tie  them  in  paper,  and  pack  them  in  boxes  or  barrels 
with  ashes.  The  ashes  must  fill  all  interstices,  but  must  not 
touch  the  hanis,  as  it  absorbs  the  fat.  It  keeps  them  sweet, 
and  protects  from  all  kinds  of  insects. 
^  After  smoked  beef  or  hams  are  cut,  hang  them  in  a  coarse 
linen  bag  in  the  cellar,  and  tie  it  up  to  keep  out  flies. 

Keep  Cheese  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  after  it  is  cut,  wrap 
it  in  a  linen  cloth,  and  keep  it  in  a  tight  tin  box. 

Keep  Bread  in  a  .tin  covered  box,  and  it  will  keep  fresh 
and  good  longer  than  if  left  exposed. to  the  air. 

Cdke  also  should  be  kept  in  a  tight  tin  box.  Tin  box^s 
made  with  covers  like  trunks,  with  handles  at  the  ends,  are 
best  for  bread  and  dake. 

Smoked  herring  keep  in  the  cellar. 

Co^yish  is  improved  by  changing  it,  once  in  a  while,  back 
and  forth  from  gaiT^t  to  cellar.  Some  dislike  to  have  it  in 
the  house  anywhere. 

All  saUed  provision  must  be  watched,  and  kept  under  the 
brine.  When  the  brine  looks  bloody,  or  smells  badly,  it 
must  be  scalded,  and  more  salt  put  to  it,  and  poured  over 
the  meat 


OK  SETiiKG  Cables.  109 


CHAPTER  XXL 

ON  SETTING  TABLES,  AND  PBBPABING  VABIOUS  ARTICLES  OF 

FOOD  FOB  THE  TABLE. 

To  a  person  accastomed  to  a  good  table,  the  maoDer  in 
which  the  table  is  set,  and  the  mode  in  which  food  is  pre- 
pared and  set  on,  has  a  great  influence,  not  only  on  the  eye, 
bat  the  appetite.  A  housekeeper  ought,  therefore,  to  attiend 
carefully  to  these  particulars. 

The  table-cloth  should  always  be  whiUy  and  well  washed 
and  ironed.  When  taken  from  the  table,  it  should  be  folded 
in  the  ironed  creases,  and  some  heavy  article  laid  on  it.  A 
heavy  bit  of  plank,  smoothed  and  kept  for  the  purpose,  is  use- 
ful. By  this  method,  the  table-cloth  looks  tidy  much  longer 
than  when  it  is  less  carefully  laid  aside. 

When  table-napkins  are  used,  care  should  be  taken  to  keep 
the  same  one  to  each  person ;  and  in  laying  them  aside,  they 
should  be  folded  so  as  to  hide  the  soiled  places,  and  laid  un- 
der pressure.     It  is  best  to  use  napkin-rings. 

The  table-cloth  should  always  be  put  on  sgruarej  and  right 
side  upward.  The  articles  of  table  furniture  should  be  placed 
with  order  and  symmetry. 

The  bread  for  breakfast  and  tea  should  be  cut  in  even,  reg- 
ular slices,  not  over  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  all  crumbs 
removed  from  the  bread-plate.  They  should  be  piled  in  a  reg- 
ular form,  and  if  the  slices  are  large  they  should  be  divided. 

The  butter  should  be  cooled  .in  cold  water,  if  not  already 
hard,  and  then  cut  into  a  smooth  and  regular  form,  and  a 
butter-knife  be  laid  by  the  plate,  to  be  used  for  no  other  pur- 
pose but  to  help  the  butter. 

A  small  plate  should  be  placed  at  each  plate  for  butter, 
and  a  small  salt-cup  set  by  each  breakf^t  or  dinner-plate, 
lliis  saves  butter  and  salt. 

All  the  flour  should  be  wiped  from  small  cakes^  and  the 
crumbs  be  kept  from  the  bread-plate. 


110  THB   HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

In  preparing  dishes  for  the  dinner-table,  all  water  should 
be  carefully  drained  from  the  vegetables,  and  the  edges  of 
the  platters  and  dishes  should  be  made  perfectly  clean  and 
neat 

All  soiled  spots  should  be  removed  from  the  outside  of 
pitchers,  gravy-boats,  and  every  article  used  on  the  table ; 
the  handles  of  the  knives  and  forks  must  be  clean,  and  the 
knives  bright  and  shai*p. 

In  winter,  the  plates  and  all  (he  dishes  used,  both  for  meat 
and  vegetables,  should  be  set  to  th^  fire  to  warm,  when  the 
table  is. being  set,  as  cold  plates  and  dishes  cool  the  vegeta- 
bles, gravy,  and  meats,  which  by  many  is  deemed  a  great 
injury. 

Cucumbers,  when  prepared  for  table,  should  be  laid  In 
cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two  to  cool,  and  then  be  peeled 
and  cut  into  fresh  cold  water.  Then  they  should  be  drained, 
and  brought  to  the  table,  and  seasoned  the  last  thing. 

The  water  should  be  drained  thoroughly  from  all  greens 
and  salads. 

There  are  certain  articles  which  are  usually  set  on  to- 
gether, because  it  is  the  faahionj  or  beciause  they  are  suited 
to  each  other. 

Thus,  with  atrong-flavfyred  mecUs^  like  mutton,  goose,  ahd 
duck,  it  is  customary  to  serve  the  strongrflavored  vegetables, 
such  as  onions  and  turnips.  Thus,  turnips  are  put  in  mut- 
ton broth,  and  served  with  mutton,  and  onions  are  used  to 
stuff  geese  and  ducks.  But  onions  are  usually  banished 
from  the  table  and  from  cooking  on  account  of  the  disagree- 
able flavor  they,  impart  to  the  atmosphere  and  breath. 

Soiled  PotUtry  shotdd  be  accompanied  with  boiled  ham 
or  tongue. 

Soiled  nice  is  served  with  poultry  as  a  vegetable. 

Jelli/  ia  served  with  mutton,  venison,  ahd  roasted  meats, 
and  is  used  in  the  gravies  for  hashes. 

Fresh  Pork  requires  soiae  acid  sauce,  such  as  cranberry, 
or  tart  apple-sauce. 

Draxpn  JSiUter^  prepared  as  in  the  recipe,  with  eggs  in  it, 
is  used  with  boiled  fowls  and  boiled  fish. 

Pickles  are  served  especially  with  fish,  and  Soy  is  a  fash* 


ON  SETTING  TABLES.  Ill 

iooable  sauce  for  fish,  which  is  mixed  on  the  plate  with 
drawn  butter. 

There  are  modes  o{  garnishing  dishes^  and  preparing  them 
for  table,  which  give  an  air  of  taste  and  refinement  that 
pleases  the  eye.  Thus,  in  preparing  a  dish  of  fricasseed  fowls, 
or  stewed  fowls,  or  cold  fowls  warmed  over,  small  cups  of 
boiled  rice  can  be  hid  inverted  aronnd  the  edge  of  the  plat- 
ter, to  eat  with  the  meat. 

On  Broiled  Ham  or  Vealy  eggs  boiled  or  fried,  and  laid 
one  on  each  piece,  look  well. 

Ghreenazxid  Asparagus  should  be  well  drained, and  laid 
on  buttered  toast,  and  then  slices  of  boiled  eggs  be  laid  on 
the  top  and  around. 

.fia^Ae^.and  preparations  of  pigs'  and  calves'  head  and 
feet  should  be  laid  on  toast,  and  garaished  with  round  slices 
of  lemon. 

Curled  Parsley y  or  Common  Parsley y  is  a  T>retty  garaish, 
to  be  fastened  to  the  shank  of  a  ham,  to  conceal  the  bone, 
and  laid  around  the  dish  holding  it.  It  looks  well  laid 
around  any  dish  of  cold  slices  of  tongue,  ham,  or  meat  of 
any  kind. 

In  setting  a  tea-table,  small-sized  plates  are  set  around, 
with  a  knife,  napkin,  and  butter-plate  laid  by  each  in  a  reg- 
ular manner,  while  the  articles  of  food  are  to  be  set,  also,  in 
regular  order.  On  the  waiter  are  placed  tea-cups  and  sau- 
cers, sugar-bowl,  slop-bowl,  cream-cup,  and  two  or  three 
articles  for  tea,  coffee,  and  hot  water,  as  the  case  may  be. 
On  the  dinner-table,  by  each  plate,  is  a  knife,  fork,  napkin, 
and  tumbler;  and  a  small  butter-plate  and  salt-cup  should 
also  be  placed  by  each  plate. 


112      THS  HOUSSksSPSB  AND  HEALTHKSSPSB. 


CHAPTER  XXIL 

WASHING,  IB0NIN6,  AND  CLEANSINa 

Many  a  woman  without  servanls,  or  with  those  untrained, 
must  do  her  own  washing  and  ironing,  or  train  others  to  do 
it,  and  this  is  the  most  trying  department  of  housekeeping. 
The  following  may  aid  in  lessening  labor  and  care. 

It  saves  washing  and  is  more  healthful  to  use  flannel  shirts. 
Farmers,  sailors,  and  soldiers  have  found  by  experience  that 
they  are  more  comfortable  than  cotton  or  linen,  even  in  the 
hottest  days.  Many  gentlemen  use  them  for  common  wear, 
changing  to  a  cotton-flannel  night-gown  for  sleeping.  So 
young  children  can  have  a  flannel  jacket  and  flannel  drawers 
sewed  to  the  jacket  in  front,  and  buttoned  behind,  and  change 
them  at  night  for  cotton-'flannel  made  in  the  same  way.  The 
under-garments  for  women  may  be  made  of  the  same  mate- 
rial and  pattern,  and  this  will  save  washing  and  promote 
health.  •_ 

Some  ladies  economize  time  and  labor  by  wearing  three- 
cornered  lace  articles  for  the  neck,  trimmed  with  imitation 
Valenciennes  lace,  wash  them  in  their  wash-bowl,  whiten 
in  soap-suds  in  a  tumbler  or  bowl  in  their  window,  stiffen 
with  gum-arabic,  and  after  stretching,  press  under  weights 
between  clean  papers.  This  is  a  happy  contrivance  wben  on 
a  journey  or  without  servants.  Those  who  wish  to  save  all 
needless  labor  in  washes  should  have  under-garments  and 
night-gowns  made  in  sack  forms  or  other  fashions  that  save 
in  both  material  and  labor.  They  also  should  omit  ruffles 
and  other  trimmings  that  increase  the  labor  of  ironing. 

There  is  nothing  which  tends  more  effectually  to  secure 
good  washing  than  a  full  supply  of  all  conveniences.  A 
plenty  of  soft  \frater  is  a  very  important  item.  When  this 
can  not  be  had,  lye  or  soda  can  be  put  in  hard  water,  to  soften 
it  Borax  is  safer  than  soda,  which  turns  white  clothes  yel- 
low, and  injures  texture.    Buy  crude  borax,  and  for  a  com^ 


WASHING,  IRONING,  AND  CLEANSING.  113 

mon  washing  use  half  an  oance.  A  borax  soap  is  thus  mstde : 
To  a  pound  of  bar-soap,  cut  in  small  pieces,  put  a  quart  of 
hot  water  and  an  ounce  of  powdered  borax.  Heat  and  mix, 
but  do  not  boil,  cool  and  cut  into  cakes,  and  use  like  hard 
soap.  Soak  the  white  clothes  in  a  suds  made  of  this  soap 
over  night,  and  it  saves  much  rubbing.  Two  wash-forms  are 
needed ;  one  for  the  two  tubs  in  which  to  put  the  suds,  and 
the  other  for  bluing  and  starching-tubs.  Four  tubs,  of  dif- 
ferent sizes,  are  necessary ;  also,  a  large  wooden  dipper,  (as 
metal  is  apt  to  rust ;)  two  or  three  pails ;  a  grooved  wash- 
board ;  a  clothes-line,  (sea-grass  or  horee-hair  is  best ;)  a  wash- 
stick  to  move  clothes  when  boiling,  and  a  wooden  fork  to 
take  them  out.  Soap-dishes,  made  to  hook  on  the  tubs,  save 
soap  and  time.  Provide,  also,  a  clothes-bag,  in  which  to  boil 
clothes;  an  iudigo-bag,  of  double  flannel;  a  starch-strainer, 
of  coarse  linen ;  a  bottle  of  ox-gall  for  calicoes ;  a  supply  of 
starch,  neither  sour  nor  musty ;  several  dozens  of  clothes-pins, 
which  are  clefl  sticks,  used  to  fasten  clothes  on  the  line ;  a 
bottle  of  dissolved  gum-arabic;  two  clothes-baskets;  and  a 
brass  or  copper  kettle,  for  boiling  clothes,  as  iron  is  apt  to  rust. 
A  closet  for  keeping  all  these  things  is  a  great  convenience. 
Tubs,  pails,  and  all  hooped  wooden  ware,  should  be  kept  put 
of  the  sun,  and  in  a  cool  place,  or  they  will  fall  to  pieces. 

COMMON   MODE    OF  WASHING. 

Assort  the  clothes,  and  put  those  most  soiled  in  soak  the 
night  before.  Never  pour  hot  water  on  them,  as  it  sets  the 
dirt  In  assorting  clothes,  put  the  flannels  in  one  lot,  the 
colored  clothes  in  another,  the  coarse  white  ones  in  a  third, 
and  the  fine  clothes  in  a  fourth  lot.  Wash  the  fine  clothes 
in  one  tub  of  suds.  When  clothes  are  very  much  soiled,  a 
second  suds  is  needful,  turning  them  wrong  side  out.  Put 
them  in  the  boiling-bag,  and  boil  them  in  strong  suds  for 
half  an  hour,  and  not  much  more.  Move  them,  while  boil- 
ing, with  the  clothes-stick.  Take  them  out  of  the  boiling- 
bag,  and  put  them  into  a  tub  of  water,  and  rub  the  dirtiest 
places  again,  if  need  be.  Throw  them  into  the  rinsing-wa- 
ter, and  then  wring  them  out,  and  put  them  into  the  bluing- 
water.    Put  the  articles  to  be  stiflfened  into  a  clothes-basket 


114  TUB   HOUSEKEEPER  AND   HEALTHKEEPEB. 

by  themselves*an<3,  just  before  haDging  out,  dip  them  in 
starchy  clapping  it  in,  so  as  to  have  them  equally  stiff  in  all 
parts.  Hang  Tv:hite  clothes  in  the  son,  and  colored  ones 
(wrong  side  out)  in  the  shade.  Fasten  them  with  clothes- 
pins. Then  wash  the  coarser  white  articles  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Then  wash  the  colored  clothes.  These  must  not  bo 
soaked,  nor  have  lye  or  soda  put  in  the  water,  and  they 
ought  not  to  lie  wet  long  before  hanging  out,  as  it  injures 
their  colors.  Beefs-gall,  one  spoonful  to  two  pailfuls  of  suds, 
improves  calicoes.  Lastly,  wash  the  flannels  in  suds  as  hot 
as  the  hand  can  bear.  Never  rub  on  soap,  as  this  shrinks 
them  in  spots.  Wnng  them  out  of  the  first  suds,  and  throw 
them  into  another  tub  of  hot  suds,  turning  them  wrong  side 
out.  Then  throw  them  into  hot  bluing-water.  Do  not  put 
bluing  into  suds,  as  it  makes  specks  in  the  flannel.  Never 
leave  flannels  long  in  water,  nor  put  them  in  cold  or  luke- 
warm water.  Before  hanging  them  out,  shake  and  stretch 
them.  '  Some  housekeepei-s  have  a  close  closet,  made  with 
slats,  across  the  top.  On  these  slats,  they  put  their  flannels, 
when .  ready  to  hang  out,  and  then  bum  brimstone  under 
them,  for  ten  minutes.  It  is  but  little  trouble,  and  keeps  the 
flannels  as  white  as  new.  Wash  the  colored  flannels  and 
hose  after  the  white,  adding  more  hot  water.  Some  persons 
dry  woolen  hose  on  stocking-boards,  shaped  like  a  foot  and 
leg,  with  strings  to  tie  them  on  the  line.  This  keeps  them 
from  shrinking,  and  makes  them  look  better  than  if  ironed. 
It  is  also  less  work  than  to  iron  them  properly. 

Bedding  should  be  washed  in  long  days,  and  in  hot  weath- 
er.    En^pty  straw  beds  once  a  year. 

The  following  cautions  in  regard  to  calicoes  are  useful. 
Never  wash  them  in  very  warm  water;  and  change  the  wa- 
fer when  it  appeal's  dingy,  or  the  light  parts  will  look'dirty. 
Never  rub  on  soap;  but  remove  grease  with  French  chalk, 
starch,  magnesia,  or  Wilmington  clay.  Make  starch  for  black 
calicoes  with  coffee-water,  to  prevent  any  whitish  appearance. 
Glue  is  good  for  stiffening  Calicoes.  When  laid  aside,  not  to 
be  used,  all  stiffening  should  be  washed  out,  or  they  will  oft- 
en be  injured. ;  Never  let  calicoes  freeze  in  drying.  Some 
persons  use  bran-water  (four  quarts  of  wheat-brftn  to  two 


WASHING,  IKONING,  AND  <XEANSIKG.  115 

pails  of  water),  and  no  soap,  for  calicoes ;  washing  and  rins- 
ing in  the  bi-an-water.  Potato-water  is  equally  good.  Take 
eight  peeled  and  grated  potatoes  to  one  gallon  of  water. 
--  To  cleanse  OerUlemen's.Broadclotha.-^Thehestw&j^  which 
the  writer  has  repeatedly  tried  with  unfailing  success,  is  the 
following :  Take  one  beef  Vgall,  half  a  pound  of  saleratus, 
and  four  gallons  of  warm  water.  Lay  the  article  on  a  table, 
and  scour  it  thoroughly,  in  every  part,  with  a  clothes-brush 
dipped  in  this  mixture.  The  collar  of  a  coat,  and  the  grease- 
spots,  (previously  marked  by  stitches  of  white  thread,)  must 
be  repeatedly  brushed.  Then  take  the  article  and  rinse  it 
up  and  down  in  the  mixture.  Then  rinse  it  up  and  down  in 
a  tub  of  soft  cold  water.  Then,  without  wfinging  or  press- 
ing, hang  it  to  drain  and  dry.  Fasten  a  coat  up  by  the 
collar.  When  perfectly  dry,  it  is  sometimes  the  case,  with 
coats,  that  nothing  more  is  needed.  In  other  cases,  it  is  nec- 
essary to  dampen  with  a  sponge  the  parts  which  look  wrink- 
led, and  either  pull  them  smooth  with  the  fingers,  or  press 
them  with  an  iron,  having  a  piece  of  bombazine  or  thin  wool- 
en cloth  between  the  iron  and  the  article. 

TO    MANUFACTURS    LYE,  SOAP,  STARCH,  AND    OTHER   ARTICLBS 

USED   IN  WASHING. 

To  make  I/ye, — Provide  a  large  tub,  made  of  pine  or  ash, 
and  set  it  on  a  form,  so  high  that  a  tub  can  stand  under  it. 
Make  a  hole,  an  inch  in  diameter,  near  the  bottonn,  on  one 
side.  Lay  bricks  inside  about  this  hole,  and  straw  over  them. 
To  every  seven  bushels  of  ashes  add  two  gallons  of  unslack- 
ed  lime,  and  throw  in  the  ashes  and  lime  in  alternate  layers. 
While  putting  in  the  ashes  and  -lime,  pour  on  boiling  water, 
using  three  or  four  pailfuls.  After  this,  add  a  pailful  of  cold 
soft  water  once  an  hour,  till  all  the  ashes  appear  to  be  well 
soaked.  Catch  the  drippings  in  a  tub  and  try  its  strength 
with  an  ^^^.  If  the  ^%%  rise  so  as  to  show  a  circle  as  large 
as  a  ten-cent  piece,  the  strength  is  right ;  if  it  rise  higher,  the 
lye  must  be  weakened  by  water;  if  not  so.  high,  the  ashes 
are  not  good,  aryi  the  whole  process  must  be  repeated,  put- 
ting in  fresh  ashes,  and  rnnhing  the  weak  lye  through  the 
new  ashes,  with  some  additional  water.     Qaidk-lye  is  made 


116      THB  HOUBECBBPEB  AND  HEALTHKBEPEB. 

by  pouring  one  gallon  of  boiling  soft  water  on  three  quarts 
of  ashes,  and  straining  it.     Oak  ashes  are  best. 

To  make  Soft  Soap. — Save  all  drippings  and  fat,  melt 
them,  and  set  them  away  in  cakes.  Some  persons  keep,  for 
soap-grease,  a  half-barrel,  with  weak  lye  in  it,  and  a  cover 
over  it.  To  make  soft  soap,  take  the  proportion  of'One  pail- 
ful of  lye  to  three,  pounds  of  fat.  Melt  the  fat,  and  pour  in 
the  lye,  by  degrees.  Boil  it  steadily,  through  the  day,  till  it 
is  ropy.  If  not  boiled  enough,  on  cooling  it  will  turn  to  lye 
and  sediment.  While  boiling,  there  should  always  be  a  lit- 
tle oil  on  the  surface.  If  this  does  not  appear,  add  more 
grease.  If  there  is  too  much  grease,  on  cooling,  it  will  rise, 
and  can  be  skimmed  off.  Try  it,  by  cooling  a  small  quantity. 
When  it  appears  like  jelly  on  becoming  cold,  it  is  done.  It 
must  then  be  put  in  a  cool  place  and  often  stirred. 

To  make  cdd  Soft  Soap^  melt  thirty  pounds  of  grease,  put 
it  in  a  ban*el,  add  four  pailfuls  of  strong  lye,  and  stir  it  up 
thoroughly.  Then  gradually  add  more  lye,  till  the  barrel  is 
nearly  full,  and  the  soap  looks  about  right. 

To  make  Potash-Soap^  melt  thirty-nine  pounds  of  grease, 
and  put  it  in  a  barrel.  Take  twenty-nine  pounds  of  light 
ash-colored  potash,  (the  reddish-ooXove^  will  spoil  the  soap,) 
and  pour  hot  water  on  it;  then  pour  it  off  into  the  grease, 
stirring  it  well.  Continue  thus  till  all  the  potash  is  melted. 
Add  one  pailful  of  cold  water,  stining  it  a  great  deal  every 
day,  till  the  barrel  be  full,  and  then  it  is  done.  This  is  the 
cheapest  and  best  kind  of  soap.  It  is  best  to  sell  ashes  and 
buy  potash..  The  soap  is  better,  if  it  stand  a  year  before  it 
is  used ;  therefore  make  two  barrels  at  once. 

To  prepare  Starch,— T&ke  four  table-spoonfuls  of  starch ; 
put  iu  as  much  water,  and  rub  it,  till  all  lumps  ai*e  removed. 
Then  add  half  It  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  this  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour,  adding  a  piece 
of  spermaceti,  or  a  lump  of  salt  or  sugar,  as  large  as  a  hazel- 
nut. Strain  it,  and  put  in  a  very  little  bluing.  Thin  it 
with  hot  water. 

Be^S'OaU, — Send  a  junk-bottle  to  the  butcher,  and  have 
several  gall-bladders  emptied  into  it.  Keep  it  salted,  and  in 
a  cool  place.    Some  persons  perfume  it ;  but  fresh  air  re- 


WASHING,  IBOKlNa,  AND  CLEANSING.  117 

moves  the  uopleasant  smell  which  it  gives,  when  used  for 
clothes. 

DIBSCnONS  FOB  S^ABCHING  .MUSLINS   AND  LACES. 

• 

Many  ladies  clap  muslins,  then  dry  them,  and  aflerward 
sprinkle  them.  This  saves  time.  Others  clap  them  till 
nearly  dry,  then  fold  and  cover,  and  then  iron  them.  Iron 
wrought  muslins  on  soft  flannel,  and  on  the  wrong  side. 

To  do  Up  Lacea  nicely j  sew  a  clean  piece  of  muslin  around 
a  long  bottle,  and  roll  the  lace  on  it ;  pulling  out  the  edge^ 
and  rolling.it  so  that  the  edge  will  turn  in,  and  be  covered 
as  you  roll.  Fill  the  bottle  with  water,  and  then  boi^  it  for 
an  hour  in  a  suds  made  with  white  soap.  Rinse  it  in  fair 
water^  a  little  blue ;  dry  it  in  the  sun ;  and,  if  any  stiffening 
is  wished,  use  thin  starch  or  gum-arabic.  When  dry,  fold 
and  press  it  between  white  papers  in  a  large  book.  It  im- 
proves the  lace  to  wet  it  with  sweet-oil,  after  it  is  rolled  on 
the  bottle,  and  before  boiling  in  the  suds.  Blonde  laces  can 
be  whitened  by  rolling  them  on  a  bottle  in  this  way,  and 
then  setting  the  bottle  in  the  sun,  in  a  dish  of  cold  suds 
made  with  white  soap,  wetting  it  thoroughly,  and  -changing 
the  suds  every  day.  Do  this  for  a  week  or  more;  then 
rinse  in  fair  water ;  dry  it  on  the  bottle  in  the  sun,  and  stiff- 
en it  with  white  gum-arabia  Lay  it  away  in  loose  folds. 
XfOce  vails  can  be  whitened  by  laying  them  in  flat  dishes,  in 
suds  made  with  white  soap ;  then  rinsing,  and  stiffening 
them  with  gum-arabic,  stretching  them,  and  pinning  them  on 
a  sheet  to  dry. 

ABTICLES  TO   BE   PBOVIDED  FOB  IBONINa 

Provide  ^he  following  articles :  A  woolen  ironing-blanket, 
and  a  linen  or  cotton  sheet  to  spread  over  it ;  a  large  fire,  of 
charcoal  and  hard  wood,  (unless  furnaces  or  stoves  are  used ;) 
a  hearth  free  from  cinders  and  ashes,  a  piece  of  sheet-iron  in 
front  of  thQ  fire,  on  which  to  set  the  irons  while  heating; 
(this  last  saves  many  black  spots  from  careless  ironerb;) 
three  or  four  holders,  made  of  woolen,  and  covered  with  old 
silk,  88  these  do  not  easily  take  fire;  two  iron-rings  or  iron- 
stands,  on  which  to  set  the  irons,  and  £mall  pieces  of  boards 


118      THS  H0U8SKBEPEB  AND  HEALTHKBEPEB. 

to  put  under  them,  to  prevent  scorching  the  sheet ;  linen  or 
cotton  wipers ;  and  a  piece  of  bees-wax,  to  rub  on  the  irons 
when  they  are  smoked.  There  should  be  at  least  three 
irons  for  each  person  ironing,  and  a  small  and  large  clothes- 
frame,  on  which  to  air  the  fine  and  coarse  clothes.  It  is  a 
great  saving  of  space  as  well  as  labor  to  have  a  clothes-frame 
made  with  a  large  number  of  slats,  on  which  to  hang  clothes. 
Then  have  it  fastened  to  thci  wall,  and,  when  not  used,  push- 
ed fiat  against  the  wall.  Any  carpenter  can  understand 
how  to  make  this. 

A  bosom-board,  on  which  to  iron  shirt-bosoms,  should  be 
made,  one  foot  an^  a  half  long  and  nine  inches  wide,  and  cov- 
ered with  white  fiannel.  .A  skirt-board,  on  which  to  iron 
frock-skirts,  should  be  made,  five  feet  long  and  two  feet  wide 
at  one  end,  tapering  to  one  foot  and  three  inches  wide  at  the 
other  end.  This  should  be  covered  with  fiannel,  and  will 
save  much  trouble  in  ironing  nice  dresses.  The  large  end 
may  be  put  on  the  table,  and  the  other  oh  the  back  of  a 
chair.  Both  these  boards  should  have  cotton  covers  made 
to  fit  them,  and  these  should  be  changed  and  washed  when 
dirty.  These  boards  are  often  useful  when  articles  are  to 
be  ironed  or  pressed  in  a  chamber  or  parlor,  and  where 
economy  of  space  is  needful,  they  may  be  hung  to' a  wall  or 
door  by  loops  on  the  covers.  Provide,  also,  a  press-board, 
for  broadcloth,  two  feet  long  and  four  inches  wide  at  one 
end,  tapering  to  three  inches  wide  at  the  other. 

If  the  lady  of  the  house  will  provide  all  these  articles,  see 
that  the  fires  are  properly  made,  the  ironing-sheets  evenly 
put  on  and  properly  pinned,  the  clothes-frames  dusted,  and. 
all  articles  kept  in  their  places,  she  will  do  much  toward  se- 
curing good  ironing; 

•      ON  SPRINKLING,  POLDINO,  AND  ERONING. 

Wipe  the  dust  from  the  ironing-board,  and  lay  it  down,  to 
receive  the  clothes,  which  should  be  sprinkled  with  clear 
and  warm  water,  and  laid  in  separate  piles,  one  of  colored, 
one  of  common,  and  one  of  fine  articles,  and  one  of  fiannels. 
Fold  the  fine  things,  and  roll  them  in  a  towel,  and  then  fold 
the  rest,  turning  them  all  right  side  outward*    The  colored 


WASHINO,  IRONING,  AND   CLEANSING.  119 

clothes  should  be  laid  separate  from  the  rest,  and  oaght  not 
to  lie  long  damp,  as  it  injures  the  colors.  The  sheets  and 
table-linen  should  be  shaken,  stretched,  and  folded  by  two 
persons. 

Iron  lace  and  needle  work  on  the  wrong  side,  and  carry 
them  away  as  soon  as  dry.  Iron  calicoes  with  irons  which 
are  not^ery  hot,  and  generally  on  the  right  side,  as  they 
thus  keep  clean  for  a  longer  time.  In  ironing  a  frock,  first 
do  the  wabt,  then  the  sleeves,  then  the  skii*t.  Keep  the 
skirt  rolled  while  ironing  the  other  parts,  and  set  a  chair, 
to  hold  the  sleeves  while  ironing  the  skirt,  unless  a  skirt- 
board  be  used.  In  ironing  a  shirt,  first  do  the  back,  then 
the  sleeves,  then  the  collar  and  bosom,  and  then  the  front. 
Iron  silk  on  the  wrong  side,  when  quite  damp,  with  an  iron 
which  is  not  very  hot,  as  light  colors  are  apt  to  change  and 
fiide.  Iron  velvet  by  turning  up  the  face  of  the  iron,  and 
after  dampening  the  wrong  side  of  the  velvet,  draw  it  over 
the  face  of  the  iron,  holding  it  straight  and  not  biased. 

TO  WHir^  ABTICLES,  AND  BEHOVE    STAINS  FBOM  THEM. 

Wet  white  clothes  in  suds,  and  lay  them  on  the  grass,  in 
the  sun.  It  will  save  from  grass  stain,  to  have  a  clean 
white  cloth  under  the  articles  to  be  whitened.  Lay  muslins 
in  suds  made  with  white  soap,  in  a  flat  dish ;  set  this  in  the 
sun,  changing  the  suds  every  day.  Whiten  tow -cloth  or 
brown  linen  by  keeping  it  in  lye  through  the  night,  laying 
it  out  in  the  sun,  and  wetting  it  with  fair  water,  as  fast  as 
it  dries. 

Scorched  artiples  can  often  be  whitened  again  by  laying 
them  in  the  sun,  wet  with  suds.  Wbei*e  this  does  not  an-^ 
swer,  put  a  pound  of  white  soap  in  a  gallon  of  milk,  and  boil 
the  artide  in  it.  Another  method  is,  to  chop  and  extract 
the  juice  from  two  onions,  and  boil  this  with  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  an  ounce  of  white  soap,  and  two  ounces  of  fuller's 
earth.  Spread  this,  when  cool,  on  the  scorched  part,  and, 
when  dry,  wash  it  off  in  fair  water.  MUdeto  may  be  re- 
moved by  dipping  the  article  in  sour  buttermilk,  laying  it 
in  the  sun,  and,  after  it  is  white,  rinsing  it  in  fair  water. 
Soap  and  chalk  are  also  good ;  also,  soap  and  starch,  adding 


120      THB  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HEALTHKBSPSB. 

half  as  fauch  salt  as  there  is  starch,  together  with  the  jaice 
of  a  letnoD.  Stains  in  linen  can  often  be  removed  by  rub- 
bing on  soft  soap,  then  patting  on  a  starch  paste  and  drying 
in  the  sun,  renewing  it  several  times.  Wash  off  all  the  soap 
and  starch  in  cold  fair  water. 

MIXTUBES  FOB   BBMOVTNG  STAINS   AND  GBBA8B. 

Stain  Xixtnre. — Half  an  ounce  of  oxalic  acid  in  a  pint  of  soft  water.  This 
can  be  kept  in  a.  corked  bottle  and  is  infallible  iii  removing  iron-mat  and.  ink- 
stains.  It  is  very  poisonous.  The  article  must  be  spread  with  this  miztore 
over  the  steam  of  hot  water,  and  wet  several  times.  This  will  also  remove 
indelible  ink.    The  article  most  be  washed,  or  the  mixture  will  injure  it. 

Another  Stain-Kixtnre  is  made  by  mixing  on&  ounce  of  sal  ammoniac, 
one  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar,  and  one  pint  of  soft  water. 

TO  remote  Grease. — Mix  four  ounces  of  fullers  earth,  half  an  ounce  of 
pearlash,  and  lemon-juice  enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  which  can  be  dried 
in  balls,  and  kept  for  use.  Wet  the  greased  spot  with  cold  water,  rub  it  with 
the  ball,  dry  it,  and  then  rinse  it  with  fair  cold  water.  This  is  for  wkite  ar- 
ticles. For  silks  and  worsteds  use  French  chalk,  which  can  be  procured  of 
the  apothecaries.  That  which  is  sof^  and  white  is  best.  Scrape  it  on  the 
greased  spot,  under  side,  and  let  it  lie  for  a  day  and  night.  Then  brush  off 
that  used,  and  renew  it  till  the  spot  disappears.  Wilmington  day-baUs  are 
equally  good.  Ink-spots  can  often  be  removed  from  white  clothes  by  rubbing 
on  common  tallow,  leaving  it  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  washing  as  usual. 
Grease  can  be  taken  out  of  wall-paper  by  making  a  paste  of  potter's  day,  wa- 
ter, aiid  ox-gall,  and  spreading  it  on  the  paper.  When  dry,  renew  it,  till  the 
spot  disappears. 

Stains  on  floors,  from  soot  or  stove-pipes^  can  be  removed  by  washing  the 
spot  in  sulphuric  add  and  water.  Stains  In  colored  silk  dresses  can  often  be 
removed  by  pure  water.  Those  made  by  adds,  tea,  wine,  and  fruits  can  oft- 
en bis  removed  by  spirits  of  hartshorn,  diluted  vHth  an  equal  quantity  of  wa- 
ter.   Sometimes  it  must  be  repeated  several  times. 

Tftr,  Pitch,  and  InrpenUne  can  be  removed  by  putting  the  spot  in  sweet- 
oil,  or  by  spreading  tallow  on  it,  and  letting  it  remain  for  twen^-four  hours. 
Then,  if  the  ardde  be  linen  or  cotton,  wash  it  as  nsnal ;  if  U  be  silk  or  worst- 
ed, rub  it  with  ether  or  spirits  of  wine. 

Lamp-CMl  can  be  removed  from  floors,  carpets,  and  other,  artides  by  spread- 
ing upon  the  stain  a  paste  made  of  fuller's  earth  or  potter's  clay,  brushing  off 
and  renewing  it,  when  dry,  till  the  stain  is  removed.  If  gall  be  put  \nto  the 
paste,  it  will  preserve  the  colors  from  injury.  When  the  stain  has  been  re- 
moved, carefolly  brush  off  the  paste  with  a  soft  brush. 


WABHINU,  laONIBO,  AND  CLXANSDrO.  121  . 

ttliftint  can  be  remored  by  rnbtung  it  with  vay  pure  spiiila  of  tarpentiof^ 
TIm  impOK  Bpiriu  leave  a  greass-spot  Wax  can  be  removed  by  aaw^g  It 
off,  and  then  holding  a  red  bot  poker  near  the  spot.  Spermaceti  may  be  k- 
■ored  bf  .ecrqiinK  it  off,  then  patting  a  p«per  over  the  qnl^  and  ^tplyiog  a 
mnninm.    If  thii  doea  not  Biuwer,rnboaapiri»of  wine. 

Ink-ltaiai  is  carpet*  and  iroolen  taUe-coveta  can  be  removed  by  waihfaig 
tbe  qiot  in  a  liquid  composed  of  one  tea-apoonfbl  of  oxalic  add  diisolved  in  a 
tMk-ci^iil  of  wum  (not  hoc)  water,  and  then  riming  in  cold  watv.  Whan 
iak  ia  firat  ipillBd  on  a  woolen  carpet,  poor  on  water  immediately,  and  aop  it 
19  aervral  timee,  and  no  stain  will  be  made.  Often  on  other  artidsi^  a  itrau) 
of  cold  water  poured,  on  tbe  *mdtr  n'da  of  the  ipL^iot  will  eo  dilnie  the  ink 
that  it  can  be  nibbed  ont  in  cold  water. 

■Ulai  Mt  Tamithed  Artielea,  which  are  caused  by  cop*  oT  hot  water,  can 
be  removed  I^  robbing  them  with  lamp-i^  and  then  with  alcohol.  Ink-ttaina 
caabe  takenontof  malu^ianyl^ooe  tea-spoonfol  of  (ril  of  vitriol  mixed  with 
oae  taUe-^xionfnl  of  water,  or  by  oxalic  add  and  water.  These  mntt  be 
bmtbed  over  qnicklj,  and  then  waibed  off  with  milk. 

KHi  HMldkueUeb  and  BibboBi  can  be  cleansed  by  nsiag  French  chalk 
to  take  ont  tbe  grease,  and  then  sponging  them  on  both  ndca  with  lokewarm 
Cdr  water.  Stifte  tbem  with  gmn-arabic,  and  press  them  between  while  pa- 
per, with  an  iron  not  ^etj  bot  A  taUe-spoonfol  of  spirita  of  wine  to  three 
qoarts  of  water  improvea  it. 

SUk  Hoae  or  KIk  QIotm  dionld  be  washed  in  warm  inds  made  with  white 
•0^1,  and  rinsed  in  cold  water ;  they  shonld  then  be  stretched  and  nibbed 
with  a  hard-rolled  flannel,  till  they  are  qoile  dry.  Ironing  them  very  mnch 
iejoree  theirlooks.  WaiK-ttiitha'  artidea  shontd  have  the  greate  rvnored 
Anm  them  by  French  chalk  or  magnesia ;  tbej  should  then  be  washed  in 
warm  snde,  and  rinsed  in  cold  wsto-.  Light  Kid  Gtova  should  bare  the 
grease  removed  from  tbem,  and  then  wash  them  on  the  hands  with  borax  wft. 
ICT  and  soft  Qaonel — a  lea-spooofnl  to  a  tmnbler  of  water.  Then  atratcb  and 
ptei*  tbem.    Dark  Eid  Gloves  wuh  in  the  aame  way. 


122      tks  HOtSBK£EPSB  AND  HEALTHKSXPSR.  • 


CHAPTER  XXm. 

KISCBLLAKSOUS  ADVICE  AND  BKCIPB8, 

How  to  keep  oool  in  Hot  Weather. — Sit  in  a  room  corered  with  mattiDg 
or  withoot  any  carpet,  and  keep  the  iSoor  wet  with  pore  water  and  a  water- 
ing-pot. In  hot  nights,  place  a  double  wet  sheet  on  the  bed  and  a  woolen 
blanket  orer  it,  and  it  will  cool  the  bed  which  is  heated  throagh  the  day,  and 
does  not  cool  as  fast  as  the  erening  air.  A  hot  bed  is  often  the  canse  of 
sleeplessness.  Wear  wristlets  and  anklets  of  wet  flanneL  Shot  all  doors 
and  windows  early  in  the  morning  to  keep  in  cool  air,  and  let  in  afr  onljr 
throDgh  windows  that  are  on  the  shadj  side  of  the  honse.  If  chambers  open 
opon  the  hoc  rooh  of  piazzas  or  porticoes,  cover  them  with  dean  straw  or  bay, 
and  wet  them  with  a  watedng-pot.  In  aJl  these  cases,  the  heat  is  taken  from 
the  air  and  from  all  surronnding  things  by  the  absorption  of  heat  as  the  wa- 
ter changes  to  vapor. 

XndeliUe  Ink. — ^Pot  six  cents*  worth  of  lonar  canstic  in  a  small  phial,  and 
fill  with  rain-water.  To  prepare  the  cloth,  pn(  a  great-spoonful  of  gam-ara- 
bic  into  a  larger  bottle,  with  a  drachm  of  salt  of  tartar,  fill  with  water,  and, 
when  dissolved,  wet  the  doth,  and  press  it  smooth  with  a  warm  (not  hot)  iron. 
Pnt  the  artides,  when  marked,  in  the  sun. 

To  preeenre  Sggi. — Pack  «gg8  in  a  jar  small  end  downward,  and  then  ponr 
in  a  mixtnre  of  foor  quarts  of  slacked  lime,  two  table-spoonfols  of  creani  tar- 
tar, and  two  of  salt.    This  will  cover  about  nine  dozen  for  sevend  months. 

• 

TO  prevent  Earthen,  Olasi,  and  Iron  Ware  from  being  eaiilj  broken. — Pot 
them  in  cold  water,  and  heat  till  boiling,  and  cool  gredoaUv. 

A  good  Cement  for  broken  Earthen  and  Olaai. — Mix  Russian  isinglass  in 
white  brandy,  forming  a  thick  jdlj  when  cooL  Strain  and  cork.  When  us- 
ing it,  rub  it  on  the  broken  edges,  and  hold  them  together  three  or  four  min- 
ntes. 

•^ 

To  keep  Xniyes  from  Bast  and  other  Injury. — ^Epb  bright,  and  wrap  in 
thick  brown  paper.  Never  let  knife-handles  lie  in  Watery  aad  do  not  let  their 
blades  stay  in  very  hot  water,  as  the  heat  expands  the  iron,  and  makes  handles 
crack. 

To  deanse  or  renovate  Fomitore. — ^White  spots  on  furniture  remove  by " 
can^phene,  or  sometimes  "by  oil  or  spirits  of  turpentine.    Remove  mortar- 


laSCELULNEOUS  ADVICE   AND  BECIPSS.  123 

\      '       « 

spots  with  warm  vinegar,  and  paint-spots  with  camphene  or  barning-flaid. 
Powdered  pomice-stone  is  better  than  sand  to  dean  paint    To  polish  itavar-' 
nitked  fumitare,  rub  On  two  ounces  of  bees-wax,  half  an  oonce  of  alconet 
root,  melted  together,  and,  when  cooled,  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine,  and 
half  a  pint  of  spirits  of  turpentine. 

To  dean  Silyer.— Wet  whiting  with  liquid  hartshorn,  and  this  will  remoTe 
bkck  spots.  Or  boil  half  an  ounce  of  pulverized  hartshorn  in  a  pint  of  water, 
and  pour  it  into  rags,  diy  them,  and  use  to  deanse  silver.  Polish,  with  wash- 
leather. 

To  deanse  Wall.Pap«r. — ^Wipe  with  a. clean  pillow-case  on  a  broom,  and 
brush  gently.    Bub  bad  spots  with  soft  bread-crumbs  gently. 

TO  Pori^  a  WeU.-7-Get  out  the  water,  and  then  put  in  three  or  four  quarts 
of  quick-lime.    Any  well  long  unused  should  be  thus  deansed. 

How  to  treat  Boiei  and  other  Planta.— Water  them  daily  with  water  steep- 
ed in  wood-ashes.  To  destroy  slugs,  scatter  ashes  over  the  plant  at  night 
before  the  dew  falls,  or  before  a  coming  shower.  Water  all  plants  with  wash- 
ing-day suds,  and  it  makes  them  flourish.  Scatter  salt  in  gravd-walks  to 
get  out  grass  and  weeds.  Use  old  brine  for  this  purpose.  Use  saw-dust  to 
manure  plants ;  also  wood-ashes ;  even  that  used  to  inake  lye  is  good. 

Easy  Way  to  keep  Grapes.— When  not  dead  ripe,  have  them  free  from 
dampness,  take  out  the  decayed,  and  wrap  each  bunch  in  cotton,  patting  only 
two  layers  in  a  box.     Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  room,  where  they  will  not  freese. 

Snow  for  Eggs.— Two  Uble-spoonfcds  of  snow  strewed  in  quickly,  and  baked 
immediatdy,  is  equal  to  one  egg  in  puddings  or  pan-cakes. 

Paper  to  keep  Preaerres.— Soft  paper  dipped  in  the  white  of  an  egg  is  the 
best  covei^  for  jellies  and  pickles.     Turn  it  over  the  rim.        ' 

To  make  Batter  ood  in  hot  Weather.— Set  it  on  a  bit  of  brick,  cover  with  a 
flower-pot,  and  wrap  a  wet  doth  around  the  pot  The  evaporation  cools  it  as 
well  as  ice. 

To  stop  Craeks  in  Iron. — Mix  ashes  and  common  salt  and  a  little  water, 
and  fill  the  cracks. 

To  stop  Creaking  Hingei.~Pnt  on  oil. 

To  stop  Creaking  Doort  and  make  Drawers  slide  eaiilj.— Rub  on  hard 
soap. 

To  renofate  BlaA  flUk.— Wash  in  cold  tea  or  coffbe,  with  a  little  sugar  in 
them.  Put  in  a  little  ink  if  vety  rusty.  Drain  and  do  not  wring,  and  iron, 
on  the  wrong  side. 


124  THS  HOirSEK:BEPSB  AND  HEJLLTHKSSP£S. 

Anothor  Way  to  dean  Xid  OIofm. — Rab  them  ligfatlj  with  bensine,  and,  as 
they  diy,  with  pearl-powder.    Expose  to  the  air  to  remeye  the  smelL 

To  retMTO  Greaao^Bpota. — Fat  an  ounce  of  powdered  borax  to  a  qoart  of 
boiling  water.    Wash  with  this,  and  keep  it  corked  for  farther  use. 

To  get  rid  ot  Bati  and  lOoe. — A  cat  is  the  best  remedy.    Another  is  to 
*  half  fill  a  tab  with  water,  and  sprinkle  oats  and  meal  on  the  top.    For  a  while 
thqr  will  be  deceived,  jamp  in,  and  be  drowned  or  caaght. 

ODDS  AND  ENDS. 

There  are  certain  odds  and  ends  where  every  housekeeper 
will  gain  much  by  having  a  regular  time  to  attend  them.  Let 
this  time  be  the  last  Saturday  forenoon  in  every  month,  or 
any  other  time  more  agreeable;  bat  let  there  be  a  regular 
fixed  time  once  a  month  in  which  the  housekeeper  will  attend 
to  the  following  things: 

First.  Go  around  to  every  room,  drawer,  and  closet  in  the 
house,  and  see  what  is  out  of  order,  and  what  needs  to  be 
done,  and  make  arrangements  as  to  time  and  manner  of 
doing  it. 

Second.  Examine  the  store-closet,  and  see  if  there  is  a  prop- 
er supply  of  all  articles  needed  there. 

Third.  60  to.  the  cellar,  and  see  if  the  salted  provision, 
*  vegetables,  pickles,  vinegar,  and  all  other  articles  stored  in 
the  cellar  are  in  proper  order,  and  examine  all  the  preserves 
and  jellies. 

Fourth.  Examine  the  trunk  or  closet  of  family  linen,  and 
see  what  needs  to  be  repaired  and  renewed. 

Fifth..  See  if  there  is  a  supply  of  dish-towels,  dish-cloths, 
bags,  holders,  floor;<;loths,  dust-cloths,  wrapping-paper,  twine, 
lamp-wicks,  and  all  other  articles  needed  in  kitchen  work. 

Sixth.  Count  over  the  spoons,  knives,  and  forks,  and  ex- 
amine all  the  various  household  utensils,  to  see  what  need  re-, 
placing,  and  what  should  be  repaired. 

Seventh.  Have  in  a  box  a  hammer,  tacki$,  pin6ers,  gimlets, 

nails,  screws,  screw-driver,  small  saw,  and  two  sizes  of  chisels 

for  emergencies  when  no  regular  workman  is  at  hand.    Also 

be  prepared  to  set  glass.    Every  lady  should  be  able  in  em- 

^ '  ergency  to  do  such  jobs  herself. 


MISCELLANEOUS  ADVICB  AND  BBCIP£S.  125 

A  housekeeper  who  will  have  a  regular  time  for  attending 
to  th^se  particulars  will  find  her  whole  family  machinery 
moving  easily  and  well;  but  one  who  does  not  will  con- 
stantly be  finding  something  out  of  joint,  and  an  unquiet, 
secret  apprehension  of  duties  lefl  undone  or  forgotten,  which 
no  other  method  will  so  effectually  remove. 

A  housekeeper  will  often  be  much  annoyed  by  the  accumu- 
lation of  articles  not  immediately  needed,  that  must  be  saved 
for  future  use.  The  following  method,  adopted  by  a  thtifty 
housekeeper,  may  be  imitated  with  advantage.  She  bought 
some  cheap  calico,  and  made  bags  of  various  sizes,  and  wrote 
the  following  labels  with  indelible  ink  on  a  bit  of  broad  tape, 
and  sewed  them  on  one  side  of  the  bags :  Old  Linens^  Old 
CoUons,  Old  black  Silks,  Old  colored  Silks,  Old  Stockings, 
Old  colored  Woolens,  Old  Flannels,  New  Linen,  New  Cotton, 
New  Woolens,  New  Silks,  Pieces  of  Ihresses,  Pieces  of  Boy^ 
Clothes,  etc.  These  bag9  were  hung  around  a  closet,  and 
filled  with  the  above  articles,  and  then  it  was  known  where 
to  look  for  each,  and  where  to  put  each  when  not  in  use. 

Another  excellent  plan,  for  the  table,  is  for  a  housekeeper 
once  a  month  to  make  out  a  bill  of  fare  for  the  four  weeks 
to  come.  To  do  this,  let  her  look  over  this  book,  and  find  out 
what  kind  of  dishes  the  season  of  the  year  and  her  own  stores 
will  enable  her  to  provide,  and  then  make  out  a  list  of  the 
dishes  she  will  provide  through  the  month,  so  as  to  have  an 
agreeable  variety  for  breakfast,  dinners,  and  suppers.  Some 
systematic  arrangement  of  this  kind  at  regular  periods  will 
secure  great  comfort  and  enjoyment  to  a  family,  and  prevent 
that  monotonous  round  so  common  in  many  families. 


PART  SECOND. 

CHAPTER  I.- 

NEEDFUL  SCIENCE  AND  TRAINING   FOR  TUE   FAMILY  STATE. 

• 

That  women  need  as  much  and  even  more  scientific  and 
practical  training  for  their  appropriate  business  than  men, 
arises  from  the  fact  that  they  must  perform  duties  quite  as 
difficult  and  important,  and  a  much  greater  variety  of  them. 
A  man  usually  selects  only  one  branch  of  business  for  a  pro- 
fession, and,  after  his  school  education,  secures  an  apprentice- 
ship of  years  to  perfect  his  practical  skill ;  and  thus  a  success 
is  attained  which  would  be  impossible  were  ho  to  practice 
various  trades  and  i)rorcs8ions. 

Now  lot  us  notice  what  science  and  training  arc  needed 
for  the  various  and  difficult  duties  that  are  demanded  of 
woman  in  her  ordinary  relations  as  wife,  mother,  housekeep- 
er, and  the  mistress  of  servants. 

First,  the  department  of  a  housekeeper  demands  some 
knowledge  of  all  the  arts  and  sciences  connected  with  the 
proper  construction  of  a  family  dwelling. 

In  communities  destitute  of  intelligent  artisans,  a  widow, 
or  a  woman  whose  husband  has  not  time  or  ability  to  direct, 
on  building  a  house,  would  need  for  guidance  the  leading 
principles  of  architecture,  pneumatics,  hydrostatics,  calorifica- 
tion, and  several  other  connected  sciences,  in  order  to  secure 
architectural  beauty,  healthful  heating  and  ventilation,  and 
the  economical  and  convenient  arrangements  for  labor  and 
comfort.  A  housekeeper  properly  instructed  in  these  prin- 
ciples would  know  how  to  secure  chimneys  that  will  not 
smoke,  the  most  economical  furnaces  and  stoves,  and  those 
that  will  be  sure  to  "  draw."  She  would  know  how  dampers 
and  air-boxes  should  be  placed  and  regulated,  how  to  pre- 
vent or  remedy  gas  escapes,  leaking  water-pipes,  poisonous 


128  TUB   HOUSEKEEPER   AND   IIEALTHKBEPBR. 

recession  of  sewers,  slamming  shutters,  bells  that  will  not 
ring,  blinds  that  will  not  fasten,  and  doors  that  will  not  lock 
or  catch.  She  will  underatand  about  ball-cocks,  and  liigh 
and  low  pressure  on  water-pipes  and  boilers,  and  many  oth- 
er mysteries  which  make  a  woman  the  helpless  victim  of 
plumbers  and  other  jobbers  often  as  blundering  and  ignorant 
as  hei*self.  She  would  know  what  kind  of  wood-wotk  saves 
labor,  how  to  prevent  its  shrinkage,  when  to  use  paint,  and 
what  kind  is  best,  and  many  other  details  of  knowledge  need- 
ed in  circumstances  to  which  any  daughter  of  wealth  is  lia- 
ble: knowledge  which  could  be  gained  with  less  time  and 
labor  than  is  now  given  in  public  schools  to  geometry  and 
algebra. 

On  supposition  of  a  yard  and  garden^  with  young  boys 
and  domestio  animals  under  her  care,  she  would  need  the 
first  principles  of  landscape  gardening,  floriculture,  horticul- 
ture, fruit  culture,  and  agriculture  ^  also,  the  fitting  and  fur- 
nishing of  accommodations  and  provision  for  domestic  ani- 
mals. And  to  gain  this  knowledge  would  demand  less  time 
than  young  girls  often  give  to  picking  pretty  flowers  to 
pieces  and  saying  hard  names  over  them,  or  storing  them  in 
herbariums  never  used.  And  yet  botany  might  be  so  taught 
as  to  be  practically  useful. 

Next,  in  selecting  furniture^  a  woman  so  instnicted  would 
know  when  glue  and  nails  are  improperly  used  instead  of 
the  needed  dovetailing  and  mortising.  She  would  know 
when  drawei-8,  tables,  and  chairs  were  properly  made,  and 
when  brooms,  pots,  saucepans,  and  coal-scuttles  would  last 
well  and  do  proper  service.  She  would  know  the  best  col- 
ors and  materials  for  carpets,  curtains,  bed  and  house  linen, 
and  numerous  other  practical  details  as  easily  learned  as  the 
construction  of  "bivalves"  and  " mnltivalves,"  and  other 
particulars  in  natural  history  now  studied,  and,  being  of  no 
practical  use,  speedily  forgotten. 

Next,  in  the  ornamentation  of  a  house,  she  will  need  tlio 
general  principles  thsd  guide  in  the  making  or  selection  of 
pictures,  statuary,  in  drawing,  painting,  music,  and  all  the 
fine  arts  that  render  a  homo  so  beautiful  and  attractive. 

Next  comes  all  involved  in  the  cleansing^  neatness^  and 


.       STEEDFUL  SCIENCE   AND  TRAINING.  129 

HirdeT  of  houses  filled  with  sofas,  ottomans,  curtains,  pictures^ 
musical  instruments,  and  all  the  varied  collection  of  beauti- 
ful and  frail  ornaments  or  curiosities  so  common.  Every 
girl  should  be  taught  to  know  the  right  and  the  wrong  way 
of  protecting  or  cleansing  every  article,  from  the  rich  picture- 
frames  and  frescoes  to  the  humblest  crockery  and  stew-pan. 
And  this  would  include  much  scientific  knowledge  as  well 
as  practical  training. . 

Next  comes  the  selection  of  heaUhful  food^  the  proper  care 
of  it,  and  the  most  economical  and  suitable  modes  of  cook- 
ing. Here  are  demanded  the  first  principles  of  physiology, 
animal  chemistry,  and  domestic  hygiene,  with  the  practical 
applications.  Thus  instructed,  the  housekeeper  will  know 
the  good  or  bad  condition  of  meats,  milk,  bread,  butter,  and 
all  groceries..  And  a  class  could  be  takien  to  a  market  or 
grocery  for  illustration,  as  easily  as  to  a  museum  or  the  field 
for  illustrations  of  mineralogy  or  botany.  All  this  should 
be  done  before  a  young  girl  has  the  heavy  responsibilities  of 
housekeeper,  wife,  mother,  and  nurse.  The  art  of  cookery, 
in  all  its  departments,  has  received  more  attention  than  any 
other  domestic  duty  in  fbrmer  days;  but. at  the  present  time 
no  systematic  mode  is  devised  for  training  a  young  gii-1  to 
superintend  and  instruct  servants  in  this  complicated  duty, 
on  which  the  health  and  comfort  of  a  family  so  much  depend. 

Next,  in  providing  family  clothing  and  in  the  care  of 
household  stuffs,  she  will  know  how  to  do  and  to  teach  in 
the  best  manner  plain  sewing,  hemming,  darning,  mending, 
and  the  use  of  a  sewing-machine,  thus  cultivating  ingenuity, 
dexterity,  and  common  sense  in  judging  the  best  way  of  do- 
ing things  and  deciding  what  is  worth  doing  and  what  is 
not.  She  will  exercise  good  taste  and  good  judgment  in 
dress  for  herself  and  family,  in  the  selection  of  materials,  in 
the  adaptation  of  colors  and  fashion  to  age,  shape,  and  em- 
ployments, and  in  the  avoidance  of  unhealthful  and  absurd 
fashions;  and  she  will  have  such  knowledge  of  domestic 
chemistry  as  is  needed  in  the  cleansing,  dyeing,  and  preser- 
vatioa  of  household  clothing  and  stuffs. 

Next  comes  all  involved  in  the  care  of  health.  This  again 
invplves  the  first  principles  of  animal  and  domestic  chemis-. 

\         6*     . 


130  THS  HOU&isKEEPSB  AND  HEALTHKSBPBa 

try,  hydrostatics,  pneumatics,  caloric,  light,  electricity,  and 
especially  hygiene  and  therapeatics.  A  housekeeper  in- 
structed in  these  will  have  pure  water,  pure  air,  much  sun- 
light, beds 'and  clothes  well  cleansed,  every' arrangement  for 
cleanliness  and  comfort,  and  all  that  tends  to  prevent  disease 
or  retard  its  first  approaches.  And  her  knowledge  and  skill 
she  will  transmit  to  the  children  and  servants  under  her 
care,  while  the  dumb  animals  of  her  establishment  will  share 
in  the  blessings  secured  by  her  scientific  knowledge  and 
trained  skill. 

Next  comes  the  care  otfdniUy  expenses  in  all  departments 
of  economy,  and  in  which  science  and  training  are  also  de- 
manded: to  this  add  the  enforcement  of  system  and  order, 
hospitalities  to  relatives,  friends^  and  the  homeless,  the  claims 
of  society  as  to  calls,  social  gathenngs,  the  sick,  the  poor,  be- 
nevolent associations,  school  and  religious  duties. 

Not  the  least  of  the  onerous  duties  of  a  housekeeper  is 
the  training  and  government  o{  servants  of  all  kinds  of  dis- 
positions, habits,  nationalities,  and  religions. 

All  these  multiplied  and  diverae  duties  are  demanded  of 
every  woman,  whether  married  or  Angle,  who  becomes  mis- 
tress of  a  house. 

The  distinctive  duties  of  toife  and  mother  are  such  that 
both  science  and  training  are  of  the  greatest  consequence, 
and  a  dreadful  amount  of  sufiering  has  resulted  from  want 
of  such  proper  instruction.  One  of  the  most  important  of 
these  duties  is  the  care  of  new-bom  infants  and  their  moth- 
el's.  Thousands  of  young  infants  perish  and  young  mothers 
are  made  sufierers  for  life  for  want  of  science  and  training 
in  the  mothers  and  monthly  nurses. 

_  Then  the  helpers  in  the  nursery  have  a  daily  control  of 
the  safety,  health,  temper,  and  morals  of  young  children ; 
and  a  conscientious,  careful,  affectionate  woman,  instructed 
in  the  care  of  health  and  remedies  for  sudden  accidents,  is 
a  rare  treasure.  These  arduous  duties  are  now  extensively 
given  to  the  inexperienced  and  the  ignorant.  It  is  a  mourn- 
ful fact  that  more  science  and  care  are  given  by  professional 
trainers  to  the  offspring  of  horses,  cows,  sheep,  and  hogs, 
« than  to  the  larger  portion  of  children  of  the  American  peo- 


KEEDFUL  SaSKCE  A2n>  TBAINmO.  131 

pie.    Thas  comes  the  fact  that  the  mortality  of  the  haman 
offspring  greatly  exceeds  that  of  the  lower  animals; 

The  most  difficult  and  important  daties  of  a  woman  are 
those  Qf  an  educator  in  the  family  and  the  school.  In  the 
nursery,  children  are  taught  the  care  of  their  bodies,  the  use 
of  language,  the  nature  apd  properties  of  the  world  around 
them,  and  many  social  and  moral  duties,  all  before  books 
are  used.  Then  it  is  a  mother's  duty  to  select  the  school- 
teacher, and  so  to  supei^ise,  that  health  and  intellectual 
training  shall  be  duly  secured.  To  this  add  the  duties  of 
training  and  controlling  the  helpers  in  the  nursery  and 
kitchen,  and  to  a  housekeeper  and  mother  the  duties  of  an 
edticatar.  stand  first  on  the  roll  of  responsibilities. 

But  the  most  weighty  of  all  human  responsibilities  that 
i*est  upon  every  housekeeper,  whether  mother  or  only  mis- 
tress of  servants,  are  those  which  are  coiftequent  on  the  dis- 
tinctive teachings  of  Jesus  Christ ;  for,  as  the  general  rule, 
it  is  the  mistress  who  is  the  chief  minister  of  religion  in  the 
family  state. 

And  this  is  the  age  above  all  the  past,  when  all  the  foun- 
dations of  religious  faith  are  being  undermined,  and  all  the 
most  important  principles  of  morals  assailed.  What  is  the 
conscientious  woman  to  do,  when  the  truth  and  authority  of 
the  Bible,  the  doctrine  of  immortality  after  death,  and  even 
the  existence  of  a  God,  are  attacked,  not  only  in  newspapers 
and  books,  but  even  in  respectable  pulpit  ministries?  Sure- 
ly, if  she  is  to  be  prepared  by  culture,  argument,  and  reflec- 
tion for  any  of  her  many  responsibilities,  it  is  for  those  she 
is  to  bear  as  the  religious  educator  of  the  family  state.  This 
topic  will  be  referred  to  more  definitely  in  the  chapters  on 
the  Training  of  Children  and  Care  of  Servants,  and  in  a  note 
at  the  close  of  this  volume. 

It  is  for  want  of  facilities  for  the  proper  scientific  training 
of  women  for  these  multiform  duties  that  they  are  so  gener- 
ally not  educated  to  be  healthy,  or  economical,  or  industri- 
ous, or  properly  qualified  to  be  happy  wives,  or  to  train  chil- 
dren and  servants,  or  to  preserve  health  in  families  and 
schools,  or  to  practice  a  wise  economy  in  the  various  depart- 
ments of  the  family  state.     It  is  for- want  of  such  scientific. 


)82  T^B  HOUSEKSEPBB  AND  HEALTHKBEPSB. 

training  that  the  most  important  duties  of  the  family,  being 
disgraced  and  nndervalued,  are  forsaken  bv  the  cultivated 
and  refined,  and,  passing  to  the  undcilled  find  vulgar,  secure 
neither  honorable  social  position  nor  liberal  rewards.  The 
poorest  teacher  of  music,  drawing,  or  French  has  higher  po- 
sition and  reward  than  those  who  perform  the  most  scientific, 
sacred,  and  difficult  duties  of  the  &mily  state. 

The  true  remedy  for  this  state  of  things  is  to  provide  as 
liberally  for  the  scientific  training  of  woman  for  her  profes- 
sion as  men  have  provided  for  theirs.  A  wide-spread  at- 
tempt is  organizing'  for  the  establishment  of  institutions  to 
cover  this  very  ground  of  educating  woman  for  the  specific 
duties  of  her  profession.  But  there  are  many  thousands  who 
are  already  beyond  the  reach  of  such  instruction,  and  thou- 
sands of  others  who  could  nev^r  avail  themselves  of  it ;  and 
certain  it  is,  that  a«gathering  together,  in  a  compact  volume 
like  the  present  one,  of  many  facts  and  ideas  bearing  upon 
these  all-important  topics,  will  be  of  great,  advantage  to  read- 
ers, especially  in  remote  districts,  far  from  the  conveniences 
of  cities. 


THB  HOUSBKBBPBK  AND  HBALTHKKXPSB. 
FlB-  r. 


can  be  made  to  Bccure  most  of  the  comforts  and  many  of 
the  refinements  of  large  and  expensive  ones.  The  cottage 
at  tbe  head  of  this  chapter  is  projected  on  a  plan  which  can 


A   HBALTHPDL'  AND  ECOETOHICAI.  HODSS. 


135 


be  adapted  to  a  warm  or  cold  climate  ~ 

with  little  change.    By  adding  aoothei- 

Btory,  it  wonld  serve  a  large  iiniily. 
Fig.  7  shows  the  gronnd-plan  of  th 

first  floor,  the  proporlioQS  being  marked 

in  the  drawing.    The  piazzas  each  side 

of  the  front  projectiou  have  sliding-win- 

dows  to  the -floor,  and  can,  by  glazed 

sashes,  be  made  greenhoases  in  winter. 

In  a  warm  climatfi,  piazzas  can  be  mado 

at  the  back  side  also. 

The  leading  aim  is  to  show  how  time, 

labor,  and  expense  are  saved,  not  only 

in  the  bailding,  bnt  in  fumitnre  and  its 

arraogement.     The  conservatories  are 

appendages   not  necessary  to   house- 
keeping, bnt  usefnl  id  many  ways. 
The  entry  has  arahed  recesses  behind  the  front  doors,  (Fig. 

8,)  fnrnisbed  with  books  for  orer-clothes  in  both — a  box  for 
j,i„  g  overshoes    in     one, 

and  a  stand  for  um- 
brellas in  the  other. 
The  roof  of  the  re- 
cess is  for  statu-.  _ 
ettes,  busts,  or  flow- 
ers. The  stairs  turn 
twice  with  broad 
steps,  making  a  re- 
cess at  the  lower 
landing,  where  a  ta- 
ble is  set  with  a  vase 
of  flowers,  (Fig.  9.) 
On  one  side  of  the 
recess  is  a  closet, 
arohed  to  corre- 
spond with  the  arch 
over  the  stairs.  A 
bracket  over  the 
first    broad     stair, 


CLOSET        RECESS 


188 


THE  HOTSXEBBPSB  AND  BXALTHEBSPBB. 


with  flowers  or  statnettes,  is  visibfe  from  the  entrance,  and 
pictures  can  be  hang  as  in  the  drawing. 

The  large  room  on  the  left  can  be  made  to  eerre  the  pnr- 
pOBe  of  several  rooms  by  means  of  a  movalle  tereen.  By 
shifting  this  rolling  screen  from  one  part  of  the  room  to  an- 
other, two  apartments  are  always  available,  of  any  desired 
size  within  the  limits  of  the  large  room.  One  side  of  the 
screen  fronts  what  may  be  used  for  the  parlor  or  sitting-room ; 
the  other  side  is  aiTanged  for  bedroom  convenienceB.  Of 
this, Fig.  10  shows  the  front  side;  covered  Bret  with  strong 


eanvas,  stretched  and  nailed  on.  Over  this  is  pasted  panel- 
paper,  and  the  upper  part  is  made  to  resemble  an  ornament- 
al cornice  by'fresco-paper.  Pictures  can  be  bang  in  the 
panels,  or  be  pasted  on  and  Tarnished  with  white  varnish. 
To.  prevent  the  absorption  of  the  varnish,  a  wash  of  gum 
isinglass  (fish-glue)  mnst  be  applied  twice. 

Fig.  11.  shows  the  back  or  inside  of  the  morable  screen, 
toward  the  part  of  the  room.nscd  as  the  bedroom.  On  one 
side,  and  at  the  top  and  bottom,  it  has  shelves  with  tMf- 


A  UEALTIIFDI.  AND   ECONOUICAL  UOUBE. 


pq 

U^^ 

in 

1 

^ffitlJffl 

-r- 

» 

FJL : J!  " 

boxe»,  wliicli  tiK  cheaper  and  better  lliaii  (liawei-s,  nni]  nmcU 

preferrei]  by  tlioso  iiaiiig  tbem.    HmiilleH  aixi  cut  in  tlio 

front  mill  back  Bu]o,a9  Been  in  Fig.  12.     Ilalfan  inch  spnco 

miiBt  be  between  the  box  nnd  the  „„  „ 

fihelf  over  il,  ami  as  much  each 

niile,  so  tl)at  it  can  bo  taken  out 

anil  put  in  easily.     The  centi-nl  f 

part  of  the  Bcrccn's  interior  is  a  1 

wardrobe. 

This  screen  must  be  bo  high  as  nearly  to  re.ich  ibc  ceiling, 
in  order  to  ]>revcnt  it  from  overtnrning.  It  is  to  fdl  tho 
width  of  the  room,  except  two  feet  on  each  side.  A  project- 
ing cleat  or  Blri)>,  reaching  nearly  to  tho  top  of  the  screen, 
three  inches  wide,is  to  be  Bcrewod  to,tho  front  Bide^,oti 
which  light  frame  doors  arc  to  be  linng,  covered  with  cnnvan 
and  pancl-jiaper  like  the  front  of  Iho  screen.  Hie  inside  of 
these  doors  is  furnished  with  hook  for  clothing,  for  which 
tlio  projection  makes  room.    The  whole  screen  is  to  bo  eight- 


138  THE    HOUSEKEEPER  AND  IIBALTIIKEKPBB. 

ecu  iiicliGS  deep  at  tlio  tojt  and  two  feet  deep  at  tho  base, 
giving  a  sulid  foiuidation.  It  is  moved  on  four  wooden  ix)!!- 
ci-s,  OHO  foot  long  Qiul  four  inches  in  diameter.  Tlio  pivots 
of  the  rollers  and  the  parts  where  there  is  friction  must  l>u 
niblicd  with  liard  soap,  and  then  a  child  can  niovo  tlio  whole 
easily. 

A  curtain  is  to  be  hung  across  tho  wliolo  interior  of  tho 
screen  by  rings,  on  a  strong  wire.  The  curtain  should  bo 
in  thrac  parts,  with  lead  or  large  nails  in  tho  hems  to  keep 
it  in  place.  The  wood-work  must  be  put  together  Avith 
screws,  as  tho  screen  is  too  largo  to  pass  through  a  door. 


At  the  end  of  the  room,  litihind  the  screen,  arc  two  couchoj>, 
to  bo  run  one  under  the  other,  as  in  Fig.  13.  Tho  upper  out! 
is  made  with  four  posts,  each  tbi-eo  fuct  high  ami  tiircc  inch- 
es square,  set  on  casters  two  inches  high.  Tho  frame  is  to 
bo  fourteen  inches  from  the  floor,  seven  feet  long,  two  foct 
four  inches  wide,  and  three  inches  in  thickness.    At  the  head 

and  at  tho  foot  is  to  bo  sei-cwed  a 

nntchcil  two- inch  board,  three  inches 

I    I — 1    I 1    I — I    ]    wide,  as  in  Fig.  14.     Tho  mortises  arc 

to  bo  one  inch  wide  nnd  deep,  niul  one 
.  inch  apart,  to  rece\^-e  slats  made  of  ash,  oak,  or  spruce,  ono 
inch  square,  placed  Icuglhwise  of  the  couch.  Tho  diits  being 
small,  and  so  near  togetlicr,  and  running  lengthwise,  make  a 
better  Rpring  framo  than  wii-e  coils.  If  they  warp,  they  can 
bo  turned.    They  must  not  bo  fastened  at  tho  ends,  except 


▲  HEALTHFUL  AND  ECONOMICAL  HOUSE.  139 

by  insertion  in  the  notches.  Across  the  posts,  and  of  equal 
height  with  them,  are  to  be  screwed  head  and  foot  boards. 

The  under  couch  is  like  the  upper,  except  these  dimen- 
sions :  posts,  nine  inches  high,  including  casters ;  frame,  six 
feet  two  inches  long,  two  feet  four  inches  wide.  The  frame 
should  be  as  near  the  floor  as  possible,  resting  on  the  casters. 

The  most  healthful  and  comfortable  mattress  is  made  by 

a  case,  open  in  the  ^ig.  i& 

centre  and  fastened 
together  with  but- 
tons, ^s  in  Fig.  15; 
to  be  filled  with  oat 
straw,  which  is'  soft- 
er than  wheat  or  rye.  This  can  be  adjusted  to  the  figure, 
and  often  renewed. 

Fig.  16  represents  the  upper  couch  when  covered,  and  the 
under  couc*h  put  beneath  it.  The  cover-lid  should  match  the 
curtain  of  the  screen ;  and  the  pillows,  by  day,  should  have  a 
case  of  the  same. 


k 


isx  V 


F)2.  IT. 


^^^^^P^    J^^^M^M^^^W^^^^^^^^^t^ 


Fig.  17  is  an  ottoman,  made  as  a  box,  with  a  lid  on  hinges. 
A  cushion  is  fastened  to  this  lid  by  strings  at  each  comer, 
passing  through  holes  in  the  box  lid  and  tied  inside.  The 
cushion  to  be  cut  square,  with  side  pieces ;  stuffed  with  hair, 
and  stitched  through  like  a  mattress.  Side  handles  are 
made  by  cords  fastened  inside  with  knots.  The  box  must 
be  two  inches  larger  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top,  and  the 
lid  and  cushion  the  same  size  as  the  bottom,  to  give  it  a 
tasteful  shape.  This  ottoman  b  set  on  casters,  and  is  a  great 
convenience  for  holding  articles,  while  serving  also  as  a  seat. 

The  expense  of  the  screen,  where  lumber  averages  four 
dollars  a  hundred,  and  carpenter  labor  three  dollars  a  day, 
would  be  about  thirty  doirars,  and  the  two  couches  about 


140      THB  HOUSSKSBPBB  AHI^  HEALTHSEBPBB. 

Biz  dollars.  The  material  for  covering  might  be  cheap  and 
yet  pretty.  A  woman  with  these  directions,  and  a  son  or 
husband  who  would  use  plane  and  saw,  could  thus  secure 
much  additional  room,  and  also  what  amounts  to  two  bu- 
reaus, two  large  trunks,  one  large  wardrobe,  and  a  wash- 
stand,  for  less  than  twenty  dollars — the  mere  cost  of  mate- 
lials.  The  screen  and  couches  can  be  so  arranged  as  to  have 
one  room  serve  first  as  a  large  and  airy  sleeping-room ;  then, 
in  the  morning,  it  may  be  used  as  sitting-room  one  side  of 
the  screen,  and  breakfast-room  the  other;  and  lastly,  through 
the  day  it  can  be  made  a  large  parlor  on  the  front  side,  and 
a  sewing  or  retiring-room  the  other  side.  The  needless  spaces 
usually  devoted  to  kitchen,  entries,  halls,  back-stairs,  pan- 
tries, store-rooms,  and  closets,  by  this  method  would  be  used 
in  adding  to  the  size  of  the  large  room,  so  variously  used  by 
day  and  by  night. 

Fig.  18  is  an  enlarged  plan  of  the  kitchen  and  stove-room. 
The  chimney  and  stove-room  are  contrived  to  ventilate  the 
whole  house. 

Between  the  two  rooms  glazed  sliding-doors,  passing  each 
other,  serve  to  shut  out  heat  and  smells  from  the  kitcheb. 
The  sides  of  the  stove-room  must  be  lined  with  shelves; 
those  on  the  side  by  the  cellar  stairs,  to  be  one  foot  wide  and 
.  eighteen  inches  apart;  on  the  other  side,  shelves  may  be  nar- 
rower, eight  inches  wide  and  nine  inches  apart.  Boxes  with 
lids,  to  receive  stove  utensils,  must  be  placed  near  the  stove. 

On  these  shelves,  and  in  the  closet  and  boxes,  can  be 
placed  every  material  used  for  cooking,  all  the  table  and 
cooking  utensils,  and  all  the  articles  used  in  house-work,  and 
yet  much  spare  room  will  be  left.  The  cook's  galley  in  a 
steamship  has  every  aiticle  and  utensil  used  in  cooking  for 
two  hundred  persons,  in  a  space  not  larger  than  this  stove- 
room,  and  so  arranged  that  with  one  or  two  steps  the  cook 
can  reach  all  he  uses. 

In  contrast  to  this,  in  most  large  houses,  the  table  furni- 
ture, the  cooking  materials  and  utensils,  the  sink,  and  the 
eating-room>  are  iEit  such  distances  apart,  that  half  the  time 
and  strength  is  employed  in  walking  back  and  forth  to  col- 
lect and  return  the  articles  used. . 


A  HEALTHFUL  AND  BCOHOUICAL  HOUSE.  141 

PlB-lS. 


[FLOUm    COOK   DRAIN  SI NK      | 


IT 


H 


142      THE  HOUSEEEEPEB  AND  B£ALTHE££PEn. 

Fig.  19  is  an  enlarged  plau  of  the  sink  and  cooking-forra. 
Two  windows  make  a  better  circulation  of  air  in  warm 
weather,  by  having  one  open  at  top  and  the  other  nt  the 
bottom,  while  the  light  ia  belter  adjnsted  for  working,  in 
case  of  weak  eyes. 

Pig.ie. 


H 


The  flour-barrel  just  fills  the  closet,  which  has  a  door  for 
admiBsion,  and  a  lid  to  raise  when  nsed.  Beside  it  is  the 
-form  for  cooking,  with  a  molding  -  board  laid  on  it;  one 
side  nsed  for  preparing  vegetables  and  meat,  and  the  other 
for  molding  bread.  The  sink  has  two  pumps,  for  well  and 
for  rain-water — one  having  a  forcing  power  to  throw  water 
into  the  reservoir  in  the  garret,  which  supplies  the  water- 
cloBet  and  bath-room.    On  the  other  side  of  the  sink  ia  the 


▲  HXALTHPUL  AllD  ECOlsOHICAL  HOUSE. 

dish-drainer,  with  a  ledge  on  the  edge  next  the  sink,  U 
the  dishes,  and  grooves  cat  to  let  the  water  drain  intc 
sink.    It  has  hinges,  so  that  it  can  either  rest  on  the  Ci 
form  or  be  tnmed  over  and  cover  the  sink.    Under  the  si 
are  shelf-boxes  placed  on  two  shelves  run  into  grooves,  wi\ 
other  grooves  above  and  below,  so  that  one  may  move  thi 
shelves  and  increase  or  diminish  the  spaces  between.    The 
shelf  boxes,  can  be  used  for  scouring-materials,  dish-toWels, 
and  dish-cloths ;  also  to  hold  bowls  for  bits  of  batter,  fats, 
eta    Under  these  two  shelves  is  room  for  two  pails,  and.  a 
jar  for  soap-grease. 

Under  the  cook-form  are  shelves  and  shelf-boxes  for  nn- 
bolted  wheat,  coi*n-meal,  rye,  etc.  Beneath  these,  for  white 
and  brown  sugar,  are  wooden  can-pails,  which  are  the  best 
articles  in  which  to  keep  these  constant  necessities.  Beside 
them  is  the  tin  molasses-can  with  a  tight,  movable  cover, 
and  a  cork  in  the  spout.  This  is  much  better  than  a  jug  for 
molasses,  and  also  for  vinegar  and  oil,  being  easier  to  clean 
and  to  handle.  Other  articles  and  implements  for  cooking 
can  be  arranged  on  or  under  the  shelves  at  the  side  and 
front  A  small  cooking-tray,  holding  pepper,  salt,  dredging- 
box,  knife,  and  spoon,  should  stand  Fig.  m. 

close  at  hand  by  the  stove,  (Fig.  20.) 

The  articles  used  for  setting  ta- 
bles are  to  be  placed  on  the  shelves  ^ 
at  the  front  and  side  of  the  sink. 
Two  tambler-trays,  made  of  pasteboard,  covered  with  var- 
nished fancy  papers  and  divided  by  wires,  (as  shown  in  Fig. 
21,)  save  many  steps  in  setting  and  clearing  table.    Similar 

Fig.  21.  FIp.«. 


(Fig.  22,)  for  knives  and  forks  and  spoons,  serve  the 
urpose.    The  sink  should  be  three  feet  long  and  three 
^eep,  its  width  matching  the  cook-form. 


144 


THB  HOUSEKSEPSB  AND  HBALTHKBEPSB. 


Fig.  48. 


Fig.  23  is  the  second  or  attic,  story.  The  rtmin  objection 
to  attic  rooms  is  their  warmth  in  summer,  owing  to  the 
heated  roo£    This  is  prevented  by  so  enlarging  the  cIo6etd 


A.  BEALTHFUL  AND   ECONOMICAL  HOUSE. 


145 


each  side  that  their  walls  meet 
the  ceiling  ander  the  garret 
floor,  thus  exclnding  all  or 
most  of  the  roo£  In  the  bed- 
chambers, corner  dressing-ta- 
bles, as  Fig.  24,  instead  of 
projecting  bureaoB,  save  much 
space  for  nae,  and  give  a  hand* 
some  form  and  finish  to  the 
room.  In  the  bath-room  mast 
be  the  opening  to  the  garret, 
and  a  step-ladder  to  reach  itr 
.  A  reservoir  in  the  garret,  sup- 
plied by  a  forcing-pump  in  the 
cellar  or  at  the  sink,  mast  be 
well  supported  bytimbers,  and 
the  plumbing  mnsC  he  well 
done,  or  much  anno;^ance  will  ensue. 

The  large  chambers  are  to  be  lighted  b;  large  windows  or 
glazed  sliding-doors,  opening  upon  the  balcony.  A  roof  can 
be  pat  over  the  balcony  and  its  sides  inclosed  by  windows, 
and  the  chamber  extend  into  it,  and  be  thus  much  enlarged. 

The  water-closets  must. have  the  latest  improvements  f 


uh  HlUk 


Flg-M. 


s^e  discharge,  and  there  will  be  no 
trouble.  They  will  cost  no  more  than 
an  outdoor  building,  and  they  relieve 
one  from  the  most  disagreeable  honse- 
labor. 

A  great  improvement,  called  eqrth- 
cloaeU,  will  probably  take  the  place 
of  water-closets  to  some  extent; 
though  at  present  tlie  water  isthe 
more  convenient. 

The  method  of  ventilating  all  the 
chambers,  and  also  the  cellar,  will  be 
described  in  another  place. 

Fig.  25  represents  a  shoe-bag,  that 
can  be  fastened  to  the  side  of  a  closet 
or  closet-door. 


146 


THE  H0U8BKBSPSB  AND  HEALTHKEXFEB. 


Fig.  26  rcpi'esents  a  piece-bag,  and  is  a  very  great  labor 
and  space-saving  invention.  It  is  made  of  calico,  and  fast- 
ened to  the  side  of  a  closet  or  a  door,  to  hold  all  the  ban- 
dies that  ar^  usually  stowed  in  trunks  and  drawers.  India- 
rubber  or  elastic  tape  drawn' into  hems  to  hold  the  contents 


TiS'9&, 


ol'  the  bag  Is  better  than  tape-strings.  Each  bag  should  be 
labeled  with  the  name  of  its  contents,  written  with  indelible 
ink  on  white  tape  sewed  on  to  the  bag.  Such  systematic 
arrangement  saves  much  time  and  annoyance.  Drawers  or 
trunks  to  hold  these  articles  can  not  be  kept  so  easily  in 


▲  HEALTHFUL  AND  ECONOMICAL  HOUSE. 


147 


good  order,  and  moreover,  occupy  spaces  saved  by  this  cod- 
trivance. 

Fig.  27  is  the  basement.  It  has  the  floor  and  sides  plas- 
tered, and  is  lighted  with  glazed  doors.  A  form  is  raised 
close  by  the  cellar  stairs,  for  baskets,  pails,  and  tubs.    Here, 

Pig.  27. 


also,  the  refrigerator  can  be  placed,  or,  what  is  better,  an  ice- 
closet  can  be  made,  as  designated  in  the  illustration.  The 
floor  of  the  basement  must  be  an  inclined  plane  toward  a 
drain,  and  be  plastered  with  water-lime.  The  wash-tubs 
have  plugs  in  the  bottom  to  let  off  water,  and  cocks  and 


148      THE  HOUSBKEEPER  AND  HSALTHKEEPEB. 

pipes  over  them  brioging  cold  water  from  the  reservoir  in  the 
garret  and  hot  water  from  the  laundry  stove.  This  saves 
much  heavy  labor  of  emptying  tubs  and  carrying  water.  . 

.  The-  laundry  closet  has  a  stove  for  heating  irons,  and  also 
^  kettle  on  top  for  heating  water.  Slides  or  clothes-frames 
are  made  to  draw  out  to  receive  wet  clothes,-  and  then  run 
into  the  closet  to  dry.  This  saves  health  as  well  as  time 
and  money,  and  the  clothes  are  as  white  as  when  dried  out- 
doors. The  entrance  to  the  kitchen  is  either  through  the 
basement  or  through  the  eating-room  windows,  made  to 
slide. 

The  wood-work  of  the  house,  for  doors,  windows,  etc., 
should  be  oiled  chestnut,  butternut,  whitewood,  and  pine. 
This  is  cheaper,  handsomer,  and  more  easy  to  keep  clean 
than  painted  wood. 

In  Fig.  7  are  planned  two  conservatories,  and  few  under- 
stand their  value  in  the  training  of  the  young.  They  pro- 
vide soil,  in  which  children,  through  the  winter  months,  can 
be  starting  seeds  and  plants  for  their  gardens  and  raising 
valuable,  tender  plants.  Every  child  should  cultivate  flow- 
ers and  fruits  to  sell  and  to  give  away,  and  thus  be  taught  to 
learn  the  value  of  money,  and  to  practice  both  economy  and 
benevolence. 

According  to  the  calculation  of  a  house-carpenter,  in  a 
place  where  the  average  price  of  lumber  is  four  dollars  a 
hundred,  and  carpenter  work  three  dollars  a  day,  such  a 
house  can  be  built  for  sixteen  hundred  dollars.  For  those 
practicing  the  closest  economy,  two  small  families  could  oc- 
cupy it,  by  dividing  the  kitchen,  and  yet  have  rooni  enough. 
Or  one  large  room  and  the  chamber  over  it  can  be  left  till 
increase  of  family  and  means  require  enlargement. 

A  strong  horse  and  carry-all,  with  a  cow,  garden,  vineyard, 
and  orchard,  on  a  few  acres,  would  secure  all  the  substantial 
comforts  found  in  great  establishments,  without  the  trouble 
of  ill-qualified  servants.  ^ 

And  if  the  parents  and  children  were  united  in  the  daily 
labors  of  the  house,  garden,  and  fruit  culture,  such  thrift, 
health,  and  happiness  would  be  secured  as  is  but  rarely  found 
among  the  rich. 


▲  HSALTHFUL  AND  ECOifOMICAL  HOtJSS.  149 

Let  US  suppose  a  colony  of  cultivated  and  Christian  peo- 
ple, having  abundant  wealth,  who  now  are  living  as  the 
wealthy  usually  do,  emigrating  to  some  of  the  beautiful 
Southern  uplands,  where  are  rocks,  hills,  valleys,  and  mount- 
ains as  picturesque  as  those  of  New-JSngland,  where  the 
thermometer  but  rarely  reaches  90°  in  summer,  and  in  win- 
ter as  rarely  sinks  below  freezing-point,  so  that  outdoor  labor 
goes  on  all  the  year,  where  the  fertile  soil  is  easily  worked, 
where  rich  tropical  fruits  and  flowers  abound,  where  cotton 
and  silk  can  be  raised  by  children  around  their  home,  where 
the  produce  of  vineyards  and  orchards  finds  steady  markets 
by  railroads  ready-made ;  suppose  such  a  colony,  with  a 
central  church  and  school-room,  library,  hall  for  sports,  and 
a  common  laundry,  (taking  the  most  trying  part  of  domestic 
labor  from  each  house) — suppose  each  family  to  train  the 
children  to  labor  with  the  hands  as  a  healthful  and  honorable 
duty ;  suppose  all  this,  which  is  perfectly  practicable,  would 
not  the  enjoyment  of  this  life  be  increased,  and  also  abundant 
treasures  be  laid  up  in  heaven,  by  using  the  wealth  thus 
economized  in  diffusing  similar  enjoyments  and  culture  among 
the  poor,  ignorant,  and  neglected  ones  in  desolate^  sections 
where  many  now  are  perishing  for  want  of  such  Christiac 
example  and  influences  ? 


150      THB  HOUSEKEEPSB  AND  HEALTHKSSPEB. 


CHAPTER  m. 

ON  HOMS   VENTILATION. 

When  ^' the  wise  woman  baildeth  her  honse,'Vthe  first 
coDsid^ration  will  be  the  health  of  the  iDinates.  The  first 
and  most  ind^ispensable  requisite  for  health  is  pure  air,  both 
by  day  and  night 

If  the  patents  of  a  family  should  daily  withhold  fi*om  their 
children  a  large  portion  of  food  needful  to  growth  and  health, 
and  every  night  should  administer  to  each  a  small  dose  of 
poison,  it  would  be  palled  murder  of  the  most  hideous  char- 
actj^r.;  But  it  is  probable  that  more  than  one  half  of  thia  na- 
tion are  doing  that  very  thing.  The  murderous  operation  is 
perpetrated  daily  and  nightly,  in  our  parlors,  our  bedrooms, 
our  kitchens,  our  school-rooms ;  and  even  our  churches  are 
no  asylum  from  the  barbarity.  Npr  can  we  escape  by  our 
railroads,  for  even  there  the  same  dreadful  work  is  going  en. 

The  only  palliating  circumstance  is  the  ignorance  of  thoso 
who  commit  these  wholesale  murders.  As  saith  the  Scrip- 
ture, "The  people  do  perish  for  lack  of  knowledge.''  And  it 
is  this  lack  of  knowledge  which  it  is  woman's  special  busi- 
ness to  supply. 

The  above  statements  will  be  illustrated  by  some  account 
of  the  manner  in  which. the  body  is  supplied  with  healthful 
nutriment  There  are  two  modes  of  nourishing  the  body, 
one  is  by  food  and  the  other  by  air.  In  the  stomach  the 
food  is  dissolved,  and  the  nutritious  portion  is  absorbed  by 
the  blood,  and  then  is  carried  by  blood-vessels  to  the  lungs, 
where  it  receives  oxygen  from  the  air  we  breathe.  This 
oxygen  is  as  necessary  to  the  nourishment  of  the  body  as  the 
food  of  the  stomach.  In  a  full-grown  man  weighing  one 
hundred  and  fifty-four  pounds,  one  hundred  and  eleven  pounds 
consists  of  oxygpn,  obtained  chiefly  from  the  air  we  breathe. 
Thus  the  lungs  feed  the  body  with  oxygen,  as  really  as  the 
stomach  supplies  the  other  food  reqtiired. 


[   BOMB   TBHTILATION. 


161 


Th«  luugs  occopf  the  upper  por-  ng.«. 

tioD  of  the  body  from  the  collsr- 
bone  to  the  lower  ribs,  and  between 
tbeir  two  lobes  is  placed  the  heart. 

Fig.  28  shows  the  position  of  the 
laagB,  though  not  the  exact  shape. 
On  the  right  hand  is;  the  exterior  of 
one  of  the  lobes,  and  on  the  lefl  hand 
are  seen^he  branching  tnbee  of  the 
interior,  through  which  the  air  we 
breathe  passes  to  the  exceedingly 
mionte  air-cella  of  which  the  lungs 
chiefly  consist.  Fig.  29  showS  the 
ontside  of  a  cluster  of  these  air-celU, 
andFig.  30  is  the  inside  view.  Tlie  . 
lining  membrane  of  eachnir-oc-ll  ia 
covered  by  a  net-work  of  niiunte 
blood-vessels  called  capiliariet, 
which,  magnified  several  hundred  times,  appear  in  the  mi- 
croscope as  at  Fig.  31.  Every  air«eU  has  a  blood-vessel 
that  brings  blood  from  the  heart,  which  meanders  through 

Plj-M.       '  Pic-l 


■Is  cajiillariestiU  tt  reaches  another  blood-vessel  that  carries 
it  back  to  the  heart,  as  seen  in  Fig.  32.  In  this  passage  of 
the  blood  throngh  these  capillaries,  the  air  in  the  air-cell  Im- 
parts its  oxygen  to  the  blood,  and  receives  in  exchange  car- 
bonic acid  and  watery  vapor  which  are  expired  at  every 
breath  into  the  atmosphere. 

By  calcnlating  the  nnraber  of  aircells  in  a  small  portion 
of  the  Inngs,  nnder  a  microscope,  it  is  ascertained  that  there 


162 


THE   HOITSBKBEFEB  AITD  HBALTBEXEPSB. 


are  no  leBS  than  eighteen  millions  of 
tbese  wonderful  little  purifiers  and  feed- 
.  era  of  the  body.  By  their  ceaseless  min- 
Ig  istries,  every  grown  person  receives,  each 
day,  thirty-three  htigsheads  of  air  into  the 
langs  to  nourish  and  vitalize  every  part 
of  the  body,  and  also  to  carry  off  its  im- 
parities. 

But  the  heart  has  a  most  important 
agency  in  this  operation.  Fig.  33  is  a 
diagrain  of  the  heart,  «hich  is  placed  be- 
tween tiie  two  lobes  of  the  lunge.  The 
right  side  of  the  heart  receives  the  dark 
and  impure  blood,  which  is  loaded  with 
carboDto  acid.  It  is  brought  from  every 
point  of  the  body  by  branching  veins 
that  unite  in  the  upper  and  the  lower 
vena  cava,  which  discharge  into  the  right 

side  of  the  heart.   This  impure  blood  passes  to  the  capillaries 

of  the  air-cells  in  the  lungs,  where  it'gives  off  carbonic  acid, 

and,  taking  oxygen  from  the  air,  then  retnma  to  the  left  side 

of  the    heart,  from 

whence    it    is    neat  ---  Ui.p*rT«« 

out  through  the  aor-  *  t»  *  _  ^.... 

ta   and   its   myriad 

branching  arteries  to 

every   part    of   the 

body. 
When   the   upper 

portion  of  the  heart 

contracts,   it    forces 

both  the  pure  blood 

from  the  lunge,  and 

the     impure     blood 

from       the       body, 

through   the  valves 

marked   V,  V,  into 

the-      lower      part, 

"When  the  lower  por- 


ON  HOMETVBNTELATION.  153 

lion  contracts,  it  closes  the  valves  and  forces  the  impnre 
blood  into  the  lungs  on  one- side,  and  also  on  the  other  side, 
forces  the  purified  blood-through  the  aorta  and  arteries  to 
all  parts  of  the  body. 

As  before  stated,  the  lungs  consist  chidfly  of  air-cells,  the 
walls  of  which  are  lined  with  minute  blood-vessels;. and  we 
know  that  in  every  man  these  air-cells  number  eighteen  miUr 
ions. 

Now  every  beat  of  the  heart  sends  two  ounces  of  Blood 
into  the  minute,  hair-like  blood-vessels,  called  capillaries, 
that  line  these  air-cells,  where  the  air  in  the  air-cells  gives 
its  oxygen  to  the  blood,  and  in  its  place  receives  carbonic 
acid.  This  gas  is  then  expired  by  tha  lungs  into  the  sur- 
rounding atmosphere. 

Thus,  by  this  powerful  little  organ,  the  heart,  no  less  than 
twenty-eight  pounds  of  blood,  in  a  common-sized  man,  is 
sent  three  times  every  hour  through  the  lungs,  giving  out 
carbonic  acid  and  watery  vapor,  and  receiving  the  life-in- 
spiring oxygen. 

Whether  all  this  blood  shall  convey  the  nourishing  and 
invigorating  oxygen  to  every  part  of  the  body,  or  return 
unrelieved  of  carbonic  acid,  depend?  entirely  on  the  pureness 
of  the  atmosphere  that  is  breathed. 

Every  time  we  think  or  feel,  this  mental  action  dissolves 
some  particles  of  the  brain  and  nerves,  which  pass  into  the 
blood  to  be  thrown  out  of  the  body  through  the  lungs  and 
skin.  In  like  manner,  whenever  we  move  any  muscle,  some 
of  its  particles  decay  and  pass  away.  It  is  in  the  capillaries, 
which  are  all  over  the  body,  that  this  change  takes  place. 
The  blood-vessels  that  convey  the  pure  blood  from  the  heart 
divide  into  myriads  of  little  branches  that  terminate  in 
capillary  vessels  like  those  lining  the  air-cells  of  the  lungs.' 
The  blood  meanders  through  these  minute  capillaries,  de- 
positing the  oxygeii  taken  from  the  lungs  and  the  food  pf 
the  stomach,  and  receiving  in  return  the  decayed  matter, 
which  is  chiefly  carbonic  acid. 

This  carbonic  acid  is  formed  by  the  union  of  oxygen  with 
carbon  or  charcoal^  which  forms  a  large  portion  of  the  food. 
Watery  vapor  is  also  formed  in   the  capillaries  by  the 


154      THB  HOUSSKSEPSB  AND  HSALTHKESPEB. 

union  of  oxygen  with  the  hydrogen  contained  in  the  food 
nnd  drink. 

Daring  this  process  in  the  capilkirics,  the  bright  red  blood 
of  the  arteries  changes  to  the  purple  blood  of  the  veins, 
which  is  carried  back  to  the  heart,  to  be  sent  to  be  purified 
in  the  lungs  as  before  described.  A  portion  of  the  oxygen 
received  in  the  lungs  unites  with  the  dissolved  food  sent 
from  the  stomach  into  the  blood,  and  no  food  can  nourish 
the  body  till  it  has  received  a  proper  supply  of  oxygen  in 
the  lungs.  At  every  breath  a  half-pint  of  blood  receives  its 
needed  oxygen  in  the  lungs,  and  at  the  same  time  gives  out 
ati  equal  amount  of  carbonic  acid  and  Water. 

Now  this  carbonic  acid,  if  received  into  the  lungs  undi- 
luted by  sufiScient  air,  is  a  fatitl  poison,  causing  certain  death. 
When  it  is  mixed  with  only  a  small  portion  of  air,  it  is  a 
slow  poison,  which  imperceptibly  undermines  the  constitu- 
tion. 

We  now  can  understand  how  it  is  that  all  who  live  in 
houses  where  the  breathing  of  inmates  has  deprived  the,air 
of  oxygen,  and  loaded  it  with  carbonic  ^cid,  may  truly  be 
said  to  be  poisoned  and  starved;  poisoned  with  carbonic 
acid,  and  starved  for  want  of  oxygen. 

Whenever  oxygen  unites  with  carbon  to  form  carbonic 
acid,  or  with  hydrogen  to  forpi  water,  heat  js  generated. 
'  Thus  it  is  that  a  kind  of  combadtion  is  constantly  going  on 
in  the  capillaries  all  over  the  body.  It  is  this  burning  of  the 
decaying  portions  of  the  body  that  causea  animal  heat.  It  i^ 
u  process  similar  to  that  which  takes  place  when  lamps  and 
candles  are  burning.  The  oil  and  tallow,  which  are  chiefly 
.carbon  and  hydrogen,  unite  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air  and 
form  carbonic  acid  and  watery  vapor,  producing  heat  during 
the  process.  So  in  the  capillaries  all  over  the  body,  the  car- 
bon and  hydrogen  supplied  to  the  blood  by  the  food  unite 
with  the  oxygen  gained  in  the  ?ungs,  and  cause  the  heat 
which  is  diffused  all  over  the  body. 

The  skin  also .  performs  an  office  similar  to  that  of  the 

'  langs.    In  the  skin  of  every  adult  there  are  no  less  than  seven 

million  minute  perepirating  tubes,  each  one-fourth  of  an  inch 

long.    If  all  these  were  united  in  one  length,  they  would  ex- 


.    ON  HOMB  vekthjltion.  155 

tend  twenty-eight  miles.  .These  minute  tubes  are  lined  with 
capillary  blood-vessels,  which  are  constantly  sending  out  not 
only  carbonic  acid,  but  other  gases  and  particles  of  decayed 
matter.  The  skin  and  lungs  together,  in  one  day  and  night, ' 
throw  out  three-quarters,  of  a  ppund  of  charcoal  as  carbonic 
acid,  besides  other  gases  and  water. 

While  the  bodies  of  men  and  animals  are  filling  th.e  air 
with  the  poisonous  carbonic  acid,  and  using  up  the  life-giv- 
ing' oxygen,  the  trees  and  plants  are  peiforming  an  exactly 
contrary  process ;  for  they  are  absorbing:  carbonic  acid  and 
giving  out  oxygen.  Thus,  by  a  wonderful  arrangement  of 
the  beneficent  Creator,  a  constant  equilibrium  is  preserved. 
What  animals  use  is  provided  by  vegetables,  and  what  veg- 
etables req^iire  is  furnished  by  animals;  and  all  goes  on, day 
and  night,  without  care  6r  thought  of  man. 

The  human  race  in  its  infancy  was  placed  in  a  mild  and 
genial  clime,  where  each  separate  family  dwelt  in  tents,  and 
breathed,  both  day  and  night,  the  pure  air  of  heaven.  And 
when  ^they  became  scattered  abroad  to  colder  climes,  the 
open  fire<»place  secured  a  full  supply  of  p^re  air.  But  civil- 
ization has  increased  economies  and  conveniences  fieir  ahead 
of  the  knowledge  needed  by  the  common  people  for  their 
healthful  use.  Ught  sleeping- rooms,  and  close,  air-tight 
stoves,  are  now  starving  and  poisoning  more  than  one  half 
of  this  nation.  It  seems  ^impossible  to  make  people  know 
their  danger.  And  the  remedy  for  this  is  the  light  of  knowl- 
edge and  intelligence  which  it  is  woman's  special  mission  to 
bestow,  as  she  controls  and  regulates  the  ministries  of  a 
home. 

The  poisoning  process  is  thus  exhibited  in  Mrs.  Stowe*^ 
**  House  and  Home  Papers,''  and  can  not  be  recalled  too 
often :  * 

*'  No  other  gift  of  God,  so  precious,  so  inspiring,  is  treated 
with  such  utter  irreverence  and  contempt  in  the  calculations 
of  us  mortals  as  this  same  air  of  heaven.  A  sermon  on  oxy- 
gen, if  wo  bad  a  preacher  who  understood  the  subject,  might 
do  more  to  repress  sin  than  the  most  orthodox  discourse  to 
show  when  and  how  and  why  sin  came.  A  minister  gets 
up  in  a  crowded  lecture-room,  where  the  mephitic  air  almost 


•  166      THB  HOnSBKXEPBB  AND  HBALTHKSSPEB. 

makes  the  candles  burn  blue^  and  bewails  the  deadness  of 
the  church — the  church  the  while,  drugged  by  the  poisoned 
air,  growing  sleepier  and  sleepier,  though  they  feel  dread- 
fully wicked  for  being  so. 

"Little  Jim,  who,  fresh  from  his  afternoon's  ramble  in  the 
fields,  last  evening  said  his  prayers  dutifully,  and  lay  down 
to  sleep  in  a  most  Christian  frame,  this  morning  sits  up  in 
bed  with  his  hair  bristling  with  crossness,  strikes  at  his 
nurse,  and  declares  he  won't  say  his  prayers — that  he  don't 
want  to  be  good.  The  difference  is,  that  the  child,  ha vmg 
slept  in  a  close  box  of  a  room,  his  brain  all  night  fed  by  poi- 
son, is  in  a  mild  state  of  moral  insanity.  Delicate  women 
remark  that  it  takes  them  till  eleven  or  twelve  o'clock  to 
get  up  their  strength  in  the  morning.  Query,  Do  they  sleep 
with  closed  windows  and  doors,  and  with  heavy  bed-cur- 
tains? 

"The  houses  built  by  our  ancestors  were  better  ventilated 
in  certain  respects  than  modem  ones,  with  all  their  improve- 
ments. The  great  central  chimney,  with  its  open  fire-places 
in  the  different  rooms,  created  a  constant  current  which  car- 
ried off  foul  and  vitiated  air.  In  these  days,  how  common 
is  it  to  provide  rooms  with  only  a  flue  for  a  stove  I  This 
flue  is  kept  shut  in  summer,  and  in  winter  opened  only  to 
admit  a  close  stove,  which  bums  away  the  vital  portion  of 
the  air  quite  as  fast  as  the  occupants  breathe  it  away.  The 
sealing  up  of  fire-places  and  introduction  of  air-tight  stoves 
may,  doubtless,  be  a  saving  of  fuel ;  it  saves,  too,  more  than 
that ;  in  thousands  and  thousands  of  cases  it  has  saved  peo- 
ple from  all  further  human  wants,  and  put  an  end  forever  to 
any  needs  short  of  the  six  feet  of  narrow  earth  which  are 
man's  only  inalienable  property.  In  other  words,  since  the 
invention  of  air-tight  stoves,  thousands  have  died  of  slow 
poison. 

"It  is  a  terrible  thing  to  i*eflect  upon, that' our  northern 
winters  last  from  November  to  May,  six  long  months,  in 
which  many  families  confine  themselves  to  one  room,  of 
which  every  window -crack  has  been  carefully  calked  to 
make  it  air-tight,  where  an  air-tight  stov6  keeps  the  atmos- 
phere at  a  temperature  between  eighty  and  ninety ;  and  the 


ON  HOME  7BNTILATI0N,  157 

inmates,  sitting  there  with  all  their  winter  clothed  on,  be- 
come enervated  both  by  the  heat  and  by  the  poisoned  air, 
for  which  there  is  no  escape  but  the  occasional  opening  of  a 
door. 

*'It  is  no  wonder  that  the  fii*st  result  of  all  this  is  such  a 
delicacy  of  skin  and  lungs  that  about  half  the  inmates  are 
obliged  to  give  up  going  into  the  open  air  during  the  six 
cold  months,  because  they  invariably  catch  cold  if  they  do 
so.  It  is  no  wonder  that  the  cold  caught  about  the  first  of 
December  has  by  the  first  of  March  become  a  fixed  con- 
sumption, and  that  the  opening  of  the  spring,  which  ought 
to  bring  life  and  health,  in  so  many  cases  brings  death. 

*'  We  hear  of  the  lean  condition  in  which  the  poor  bears 
emerge  from  their  six  months'  wintering,  during  which  they 
subsist  on  the  fat  which  they  have  acquired  the  previous 
summer.  Even  so,  in  our  long  winters,  multitudes  of  deli- 
cate people  subsist  on  the  daily  waning  strengtb  which  they 
acquired  in  the  season  when  windows  and  doors  were  open, 
and  fresh  air  was  a  constant  luxury.  No  wonder  we  hear 
of  spring  fever  and  spring  biliousness,  and  have  thousands 
of  nostrums  for  clearing  the  blood  in  the  spring.  All  these 
things  are  the  pantings  and  palpitations  of  A  system  run 
down  under  slow  poison,  unable  to  get  a  step  fai*tber. 

**  Better,  fax'  better,  the  old  houses  of  the  olden  time,  with 
their  great  roaring  fires,  and  their  bed -rooms  where  the 
snow  came  in  and  the  wintry  winds  whistled.  Then,  to  be 
sure,  you  froze  your  back  while  you  burned  your  face,  your 
water  froze  nightly  in  your  pitcher,  your  breath  congealed 
in  ice-wreaths  on  the  blankets,  and  you  could  write  your 
name  on  the  pretty  snow-wreath  that  had  sifted  in  through 
the  window-cracks.  But  you  woke  full  of  life  and  vigor, 
you  looked  out  into  the  whirling  snow-storms  without  a 
shiver,  and  thought  nothing  of  plunging  through  drifts  as 
high  as  your  head  on  your  daily  way  to  school  Tou  jin- 
'  gled  in  sleighs,  you  snow-balled,  you  lived  in  snow  like  a 
snow-bird,  and  your  blood  coursed  and  tingled,  in  full  tide 
of  good,  merry,  real  life,  through  your  veinls — ^none  of  the 
slow-creeping,  black  blood  which  clogs  the  brain  and  lies 
like  a  weight  on  the  vital  wheels !" 


158      THE  UOUSEKEEPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPER. 

It  is  ascertained  by  experiments  that  breathing  bad  air 
tends  80  to  reduce  all  the  processes  of  the  body,  that  less 
oxygen  is  demanded  and  less  carbonic  acid  sent  out.  This, 
of  course,  lessens  the  vitality  and  weakens  the  constitution ; 
and  it  accounts  for  the  fact  that  a  peraon  of  full  health, 
accustomed  to  pure  air,  suffers  from  bad  air  far  more  than 
those  who  are  accustomed  to  it.  .  The  body  of  strong  and 
healthy  persons  demands  more  oxygen,  and  throws  off  more 
carbonic  acid,  and  is  distressed  when  the  supply  fails. .  But 
the  one  reduced  by  bad  air  feels  little  inconvenience,  be- 
cause all  the  functions  of  life  are  so  slow  that  less  oxygen  is 
needed,  and  less  carbonic  acid  thrown  put.  And  the  sensi- 
bilities being  deadened,  the  evil  is  not  felt.  This  provision 
of  nature  prolongs  many  lives,  though  it  tuiiis  vigorous  con- 
stitutions into  feeble  ones.  Were  it  not  for  this  change  in 
the  constitution,  thousands  in  badly  ventilated  rooms  and 
houses  would  come  to  a  speedy  death. 

One  of  the  results  of  un ventilated  room^  is  .8crx>/ula.  A 
distinguished  French  physician,  M.  Baudeloque,  states  that 

'^  The  repeated  respiration  of  the  same  atmosphere  is  the 
cause  of  scrofula.  If  there  be  entirely  pure  air,  there  may 
be  bad  food,  bad  clothing,  and  want  of  personal  cleanliness, 
but  scrofulous  disease  will  not  exist.  This  disease  never 
attacks  persons  who  pass  their  lives  in  the  open  air,  and 
(zhoaya  manifests  itself  when  they  abide  in  air  which  is  un- 
renewed." T 

This  writer  illustrates  this  by  the  history  of  a  French  vil- 
lage where  the  inhabitants  all  slept  in  close,  unventilated 
houses.  Nearly  all  were  seized  with  scrofula,  and  miany 
families  became  wholly  extinct,  their  last  members  dying 
"rotten  with  scrofula."  A  fii*e  destroyed  a  large  part  of 
this  village.  Houses  were  then  built  to  secure  pure  air,  and 
scrofula  disappeared  from  the  part  thus  rebuilt. 

We  are  .informed  by  medical  writers  that  defective  ven- 
tilation is  one  great  cause  of  diseased  joints,  isis  well  as  of 
diseases  of  the  eyes,  ears,  and  skin. 

Foul  air  is  the;  leading  cause  of  tubercular  and  scrofulous 
consumption,  so  very  common  in  our  country.  Dr.  Guy,  in 
his  examination  before  public  health  commissioners  in  Great 


ON  HOMX  VENTILATION.  169 

Britain,  says :  "Deficient  ventilation  I  believe  to  be  more 
fatal  than  uU  other  causes  put  together.'*  He  states  that 
consumption  is  twice  as  common  among  tradesmen  as 
among  the  gentry,  owing  to  the  bad  ventilation  of  their 
stores,  and  dwellings. 

Says  Dr.  Dio  Lewis,  whose  labors  in  the  cause  of  health 
are  well  known : 

"As  a  medical  man  I  have  visited  thousands  of  sick-rooms, - 
and  have  not.  found  in  one  in  a  hundred  of  them  a  pure  at- 
mosphere. I  have  often  returned  from  church  doubting 
whether  I  had  not  committed  a  sin  in  exposing  myself  so 
long  to  its  poisonous  air.  Tliere  arie  in  our  great  cities 
churches  costing  l6fty  thousand  dollars,  in  the  construction 
of  which  not  fifty  cents  were  expended  in  providing  means 
for  ventilation.  Ten  thousand  dollars  for  ornament,  but  not 
ten  cents  for  pure  air ! 

"  Unventilated  parlors,  with  gas-burners,  (each  consuming 
as  much  oxygen  as  several  men,)  made  as  tight  as  possible, . 
and  a  party  of  ladies  and  gentlemen  spending  half  the  night 
in  them !  In  1861,1  visited  a  legislative  hall,  the  legislature^ 
being  in  session.  I  remained  half  an  hour  in  the  most  im- 
pure air  ^I  ever  breathed.  Our  school-houses  are,  sonae  of 
them,  so  vile  in  this  respect,  that  I  would  prefer  to  have 
ray  son  remain  in  utter  ignorance  of  books  rather  than  to 
breathe,  six  hours  every  day,  such  a  poisonous  atmosphere. 
Theatres  and  concert-rooms  are  so  foul  that  only  reckless 
people  continue  to  visit  them.  Twelve  hours  in  a  railway- 
car  exhausts  one,  not  by  the  journeying,  but  because  of  the 
devitalized  air.  While  crossing  the  ocean  in  a  Cunard  steam- 
er, I  was  amazed  that  men  who  knew  enough  to  construct 
such  ships  did  not  know  enough  to  furnish  air  to  the  passen- 
gers. The  distress  of  sea-sicktiess  is  greatly  intensified  by 
the  sickening  air  of  the  ship.  Were  carbonic  acid  only  blacky 
what  a  contrast  there  would  be  between  our  hotels  in  their 
elaborate  ornament ! 

"^Some  time  since  I  visited  an  establishment  where  one 
hundred  and  fifty  girls,  in  a  single  rooQi,  were  engaged  in 
needle-work.  Pale-faced,  and  with  low  vitality  and  feeble 
circulation,  they  were  unconscious  that  they  were  breathing 


160  THS  H0U8EKESPEB  AND  HEAi^THKEEPEB.' 

air  that  at  once  produced  in  me  dizzines^s  and  a  i^ense  of  saf-  ' 
focation.    If  I  had  remained  a  week  with  them,  I  should,  by 
reduced  vitality,  have  become  unconscious  of  the  vileness  of 
the  air  r 

There  is  a  prevailing  prejudice  against  night  air  as  un- 
h^althful  to  be  admitted  into  sleeping-rooms,  which  is  owing 
wholly  to  sheer  ignorance.  In  the  night  every  body  neces- 
sarily breathes  night  air  and  no  other.  When  admitted 
from  without  into  a  sleeping-room,  it  is  colder,  and  therefore 
heavier,  than  the  air  within^  so  it  sinks  to  the  bottom  of  the 
room  and  forces  out  an  equal  quantity  of  the  impure  air, 
warmed  and  vitiated  by  passing  through  the  lungs  of  in- 
mates. Thus  the  question  is.  Shall  we  sGut  up  a  chamber 
and  breathe  night  air  vitiated  with  carbonic  acid  or  night 
air  that  is  pure  ?  The  only  real  difficulty  about  night  air  is, 
that  usually  it  is  damper,  and  therefore  colder  and  more  likely 
to  chill.    This  is  easily  I'emedied  by  sufficient  bed-clothing. 

One  other  very  prevalent  mistake  is  found  even  in  books 
written  by  learned  men.  It  is  often  thought  that  carbonic 
acid,  being  heavier  than  common  air,  sinks  to  the  floor  of 
sleeping-rooms,  so  that  the  low  trundle-beds  for  children 
should  not  be  used.  This  is  all  a  mistake ;  for^  as  a  fact,  in 
close  sleeping-rooms  the  purest  air  is  below  and  the  most 
impure  above.  It  is  ti*ue  that  carbonic  acid  is  heavier  than 
common  air,  when  pure ;  but  this  it  rarely  is  except  in  chem- 
ical experiments.  It  is  the  property  of  all  gases,  as  well  as 
of  the  two  (oxygen  and  nitrogen)  composing  the  atmosphere, 
that  when  brought  together  they  always  are  entirely  mixed, 
each  being  equally  diffused.  Thus  the  carbonic  acid  from 
the  skin  and  lungs,  being  warmed  in  the  body,  rises,  as  does 
tjie  common  air,  with  which  it  mixes,  toward  the  top  of  a 
fioom ;  so  that  usually  there  is  more  carbonic  acid  at  the  top 
than  at  the  bottom  of  a  room.*^  Both  common  air  and  car- 
bonic, acid  expand  and  become  lighter  in  the  same  propor- 
tions; that  is,  for  every  degree  of  added  heat  they  expand 
at  the  rate  of  7^  of  theij  bulk. 

*  Professor  Brewer,  of  the  Tale  Scientific  School,  says  t  '*  As  a  &ct,  often 
demonstrated  by  analysis,  there  is  generally  more  carbonic  acid  near  the  ceil- 
ing thlEm  near  the  floor.** 


ON  HOME  VKNTlLAllOIf.  161 

Here,  let  it  be  i-emembered,  that  in  ill-ventilated  rooms 
the  carbonic  acid  is  not  the  only  caase  of  disease.  Experi- 
ments seem  to  prove  that  other  matter  thrown  out  of  the 
body,  through  the  lungs  and  skin,  is  as  truly  excrement  and 
in  a  state  of  decay  as  that  ejected  from  the  bowels,  and  as. 
poisonous  to  the  animal  system.  Carbonic  acid  has  no  odor ; 
but  we  are  warned  by  the  disagreeable  effluvia  of  close  sleep- 
ing-rooms of  the  other  poison  thus  thrown  into  the  air  from 
the  skin  and  lungs.  There  is  one  provision  of  nature  that  is 
little  understood,  which  saves  the  lives  of  thousands  living 
in  un  ventilated  houses;  and  that  is,  tbe  passage  of  pure  air 
inward  and  impure  air  outward  through  the  pores  of  bricks, 
wood,  stone,  and  mortar.  Were  such  dwellings  changed  to 
tin,  which  is  not  thus  porous,  in  less  than  a  week  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  would  be  in  danger  of  perishing  by 
suffocation. 

There  are  some  recent  scientific  discoveries  that  relate  to 
impure  air  which  may  properly  be  introduced  here.  It  is 
shown  by  the  microscope  that  fermentation  is  a  process 
which  generates  extremely  minute  plants,  that  gradually 
increase  till  the  whole  mass  is  pervaded  by  this  vegetation. 
The  microscope  also  has  revealed  the  fact  that,  in  certain 
diseases,  these  microscopic  plants  are  generated  in  the  blood 
and  other  fluids  of  the  body,  in  a  mode  similar  to  the  ordi- 
nary process  of  fei*mentation. 

And,  what  is  very  curious,  each  of  these  peculiar  diseases 
generates  diverse  kinds  of  plants.  TIuis,  in  the  typhoid 
fever,  the  microscope  reveals  in  the  fluids  of  the  patient  a 
plant  that  resembles  in  form  some  kinds  of  sea-weed.  In 
chills  and  fever,  the  microscopic  plant  has  another  form,  and 
in  small-pox  still  another.  A  work  has  recently  been  pub- 
lished id  Europe,  in  which  representations  of  these  various 
microscopic  plants  generated  in  the  fluids  of  the  diseased 
persons  are  exhibited,  enlarged  several  hundred  times  by 
the  microscope.  All  diseases  that  exhibit  these  microscopic 
plants  are  classed  together,  and  are  called  Zymotic^  from  a 
Greek  word  jsignifying  to  ferment. 

It  is  now  regarded  as  probable  that  most  of  these  diseases 
are  generated  by  the  microscopic  plants  which  float  in  an 


162      TBE  U0U8EKEBPEB  AND  HBALTHKSEPEB. 

impnre  or  miasraalio  atmosphere,  and  are  taken  into  the 
blood  by  breathing. 

Recent  scientific  investigations  in  Great  Britain  and  other 
coantries  prove  that  ihepoioer  of  resisting  these  diseases  de- 
pends npon  the  purity  of  the  air  which  has  been  JwbituaUy 
inspired.  The  human  body  gradually  accommodates  itself 
to  unhealthful  circumstances,  so  that  people  can  live  a  long 
time  in  bad  air.  But  the  "reserve  power"  of  the  body — 
that  is,  the  power  of  resisting  disease^ is  under  stich  cir« 
cumstances  gradually  destroyed,  and  then  an  epidemic  easily 
sweeps  away  those  thus  enfeebled.  The  plague  of  London, 
that  destroyed  thousands  every  day,  came  immediately  after 
a  long  period  of  damp,  warm  days,  when  there  was  no  wind 
to  carry  off  the  miasma  thus  generated ;  while  the  people, 
by  long  breathing  of  bad  air,  were  all  prepared,  fi*om  having 
sunk  into  a  low  vitality,  to  fall  before  the  pestilence. 

Multitudes  of  public  documents  shpw  that  the  fatality  of 
epidemics  is  always  proportioned  to  the  degree  in  which  im< 
pure  air  has  previously  been  respired.  Sickness  and  death 
are  therefore  regulated  by  the  degree  in  which  air  is  kept 
pure,  especially  in  case  of  diseases  in  which  medical  treat- 
ment is  most,  uncertain,  as  in  cholera  and  malignant  fevers. 

Investigations  made  by  governmental  authority,  and  by 
boards  of  health  in  this  country  and  in  Oreat  Britain,  prove 
that  zymotic  diseases  ordinarily  result  from  impure  air  gen- 
erated by  vegetable  or  animal  decay,  and  that  in  almost  all 
cases  they  can  be  prevented  by  keeping  the  air  pure.  Tl)e 
decayed  animal  matter  sent  off  from  the  skin  ^nd  lungs  in 
a  close,  unventilated  bedroom  is  one  thing  that  generates 
these  zymotic  diseases.  The  decay  of  animal  and  vegetable 
matter  in  cellars,  sinks,  drains,  and  mardhy  districts  is  an- 
other cause ;  and  the  decayed  vegetable  matter  thrown  up 
by  plowing  up  of  decayed  vegetable  matter  in  the  rich  soil 
in  new  countries  is  another. 

In  the  investigations  made  in  certain  parts  of  Great  Brit- 
ain, it  appeared  that  in  districts  where  the  air  is  pure  the 
deaths  average  eleven  in  one  thousand  each  year ;  while  in 
localities  most  exposed  to  impure  miasma  the  moitality  was 
forty-five  in  every  thousand.    At  this  rate,  thirty-four  per? 


N 


ON  HOICB  VENTILATION.  1^3 

sons  in  every  thousand  died  from  poisoned  air,  who  would 
have  preserved  health  and  life  by  well-ventilated  homes  In 
a  pure  atmosphere.  And,  out  of  all  who  died,  the  propor- 
tion who  owed  their  deaths  to  foul  air  was  more  than  three- 
fourths.  Similar  facts  .have  been  obtained  by  boards  of 
health  in  our  own  country. 

Mr.  Lewis  Leeds  gives  statistics  showing  that  in  Phila* 
delphia,  by  improved  modes  of  ventilation  and  other  sani- 
tary methods,  there  was  a  saving  of  three  thousand  two  hun- 
dred and  thirty-se^ven  lives  in  two  years;  and>  saving  of 
three-fourths  of  a  million  of  dollars,  which  would  pay  the 
whole  expense  of  the  public  schools.  Philadelphia  being 
previously  an  unusually  cleanly  and  well-ventilated  city, 
what  would  be  the  saving  of  life,  health,  and  wealth  were 
such  a  city  as  New  York  perfectly  cleansed  and  ventilated  ? 


164      THE  HOUSEKESPKB  AND  HSALTHKSSPSB. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

ON   WABHINO   A   HOME. 

The  laws  that  regulate  the  generation,  diffusion,  and  pres^ 
ervation  of  heat  as  yet  are  a  sealed  mystel*y  to  thoosatids  of 
young  women  who  imagine  they  are  completing  a  suitable 
education  in  courses  of  instruction  from  which  most  that  is 
practical  in  future  domestic  life  is  wholly  excluded.  We 
therefore  give  a  brief  <)utline  of  some. of  the  leading  scientific 
principles  which  every  housekeeper  should  understand  and 
employ,  in  order  to  perform  successfully  one  of  her  most  im- 
portant duties. 

Concerning  the  essential  nature  of  heat,  and  its  intimate 
relations  with  the  other  great  natural  forces,  light,  electric- 
ity, etc.,  we  shall  not  attempt,  to  treat,  but  shall,  for  prac- 
tical purposes,  assume  it  to  be  a  separate  and  independent 
force. 

Heat  or  caloric,  then,  has  certain  powers  or  principles.  Let 
us  consider  them  : 

First,  we  find  Conduction,  by  which  heat  passes  from  one 
particle  to  another  next  to  it ;  as  when  one  end  of  a  poker  is 
warmed  by  placing  the  other  end  in  the  fire.  The  bodies 
which  allow  this  power  free  course  are  called  conductors, 
and  those  which  do  not  are  named  non-conductoi*s.  Metals 
are  good  conductors ;  feathers,  wool,  and  furs  are  poor  con- 
ductors; and  water,  air,  and  gases  are -non-conductors. 

Another  principle  of  heat  is  Convection,  hj  which  water, 
air,  and  gases  are  warmed.  This  is,  literally,  the  process  of 
conveying  heat  from  one  portion  of  a  fluid  body  to  another 
by  currents  resulting  from  changes  of  temperature.  It  is 
secured  by  bringing  one  portion  of  a  liquid  or  gas  into  con- 
tact with  a  heated  surface,  and  thus  it  becomes  lighter  and 
expanded  in  volume.  In  consequence,  the  cooler  and  heavi- 
er particles  abpve  pressing  downward,  the  lighter  ones  rise 
upward.     Thus  a  constant  motion  of  currents  and  inter- 


ON  WASHING  A  BOMB.  165 

change  of  pailicles  is  produced,  until,  as  in  a  vessel  of  water, 
the  whole  body  comes  to  an  equal  temperature.  Air  is  heat- 
ed in  the  same  way.  In  case  of  a  hot  stove,  the  air  that 
touches  it  is  heated,  becomes  lighter,  and  rises,  giving  place 
to  cooler  and  heavier  particles,  which,  when  heated,  also  as- 
cend. It  is  owing  to  this  process  that  the  air  of  a  room  is 
wannest  at  the  top  and  coolest  at  the  bottom. 

It  is  owing  to  this  principle,  also,  that  water  and  an*  can 
not  be  heated  by  fire  from  above.  For  the  particles  of  these 
bodies,  being  noh-conductors,  do  not  impart  heat  to  each 
other;  and  when  the  warmest  are  at  the  top,  they  can  not 
take  the  place  of  cooler  and  heavier  ones  below. 

Another  principle  of  heat  (which  it  shares  with  light)  is 
Badiation^  by  which  all  things  send  out  heat  to  surrounding 
cooler  bodies.  Some  bodies  will  absorb  radiated  heat,  others 
will  reflect  it,  and  others  allow  it  to  pass  through  them  with- 
out either  absorbing  or  reflecting.  Thus,  black  and  rough 
substances  absorb  heat,  (or  light,)  colored  and  smooth  arti- 
cles reflect  it,  while  air  allows  it  to  pass  through  without 
either  absorbing  or  reflecting.  It  is  owing  to  this  that  rough 
and  black  vessels  boil  water  sooner  than  smooth  and  light- 
colored  ones. 

Another  principle  is  Heflection^  by  which  heat  radiated  to 
a  surface  is  turned  back  from  it  when  not  absorbed  or  al- 
lowed to  pass  through  ;  just  as  a  ball  rebounds  from  a  wall ; 
just  as  sound  is  thrown  back  from  a  hill,  making  echo;  just 
as  rays  of  li^ht  are  reflected  from  a  mirror. 

There  is  no  department  of  science,  as  applied  to  practi- 
cal matters,  which  has  so  often  baffled  experimenters  as  the 
healthful  mode  of  warming  and  ventilating  housea.  The 
Britisb  nation  spent  over  a  million  on  the  House  of  Parlia- 
ment for  this  end,  and  failed.  Our  own  Government  has 
spent  half  a  million  on  the  Capitol,  with  worse  failure;  and 
now  it  is  proposed  to  spend  a  million  more.  The  reason  is, 
that  the  old  open  fire-place  has  been  supplanted  by  less  ex- 
pensive modes  of  heating,  destructive  to  health ;  and  science 
has  but  just  begun  experiments  to  secure  a  remedy  for  the 
evil. 

The  open  fire  warms  the  person,  the  walls,  the  floors,  and 


166      THE  HOUSSKSEPSB  AND  HEALTHKEBPSB. 

the  furniture  by  radiation,  and  these,  together  with  the  fire, 
warm  the  air  by  convection ;  for  the  air  resting  on  the 
heated  surfaces  is  wanned  by  convection,  rises  and  gives 
place  to  cooler  particles,  causing  a  constant  heating  of  its 
particles  by  movement.  Thus,  in  a  room  with  an  open  fire, 
the  person  is  warmed  in  part  by  radiation  from  the  lire  and 
the  surrounding  walls  and  furniture,  and  in  part  by  the 
warm  air  surroundijig  the  body. 

In  regard  to  the  warmth  of  air,  the  thermometer  is  not  an 
exact  index  of  its  temperature.  For  all  bodies  are  con- 
stantly radiating  their  heat  to  cooleV  adjacent  surfaces  until 
all  come  to  the  same  temperature.  This  being  so,  the  ther- 
mometer is  radiating  its  heat  to  walls  and  surrounding  ob- 
.  jects,  in  addition  to  what  is  subtracted  by  the  air  that  sur- 
rounds it,  and  thus  the  air  is  really  several  degrees  warmer 
than  the  thermometer  indicates.  A  room  at  10^  by  the  ther- 
mometer- is  usually  filled  with  air  five  or  more  degrees 
warmer  than  tbis. 

Now,  the  cold  air  is  denser  than  warm,  and  therefore  con- 
tains more  oxygen.  Consequently,  the  cooler  the  air  in- 
spired, the  larger. the  supply  of  oxygen  and  of  the  vitality 
and  vigor  which  it  imparts.  Thus,  the  great  problem  for 
economy  of  health  is  to  warm  the  person  as  much  as  possi- 
ble by  radiated  heat,  and  supply  the  lungs  with  cool  air. 
For  when  we  breathe  air  at  from  16^  to  20%  we  take  double 
the  amount  of  oxygen  that  we  do  when  we  inhale  it  at  80^ 
to  90%  and  consequently  can  do  a  far  greater  amount  of 
muscle  and  brain  work.  .  v 

Warming  by  an  open  fire  is  nearest  to  the  natural  mode 
of  the  Creator,  who  heats  the  earth  and  its  fumiture  by  the 
great  centralfire  of  heaven,  and  sends  cool  breezes  for  our 
lungs.  But  open  fires  involve  great  destruction  of  fuel  and 
expenditure  of  money,  and  in  consequence  economic  ineth- 
ods  have  been  introduced,  to  the  great  destruction  of  health 
and  life. 

Whenever  a  faniily-room  is  heated  by  an  open  fire,  it  is 
duly  ventilated,  as  the  impure  air  is  constantly  passing  off^ 
through  the  heated  chimney,  while,  to  supply  the  vacated 
space,  the  pure  air  presses  in  through  the  cracks  of  doors. 


ON  WABMIN6  ▲  HOME.  167 

windows,  aud  floors.  No  such  sapply  is  gained  for  rooms 
warmed  by  stoves.  And  yet,  from  mistaken  motives  of 
economy,  as  well  as  from  ignorance 'of  tbe  resulting  evils, 
multitudes  of  liouseholders  are  thus  destroying  health  and 
shortening  life,  especially  in  regard  to  women  and  children 
who  spend  most  of  their  time  within  doors.  This  is  espe- 
cially the  case  where  air-tight  stoves  are  used. 

A  common  mode  of  warming  is  by  heated  air  from  a  fur- 
nace. The  chief  objection  to  this  is  the  Ipss  of  moisture  and 
of  all  radiated  heat,  and  the  consequent  necessity  of  breath- 
ing air  which  is  debilitating,  both  from  its  heat  and  also 
from  being  usually  deprived  of  the  requisite  moisture  pr<5- 
vided  by  the  Creator  in  all  outdoor  air.  Another  objec- 
tion is  the  fact  that  it  is  important  to  health  to  preserve  an 
equal  circulation  of  the  blood,  and  the  greatest  impediment 
to  this  is  a  mode  of  heating  which  keeps  the  head  in  warmer 
air  than  the  feet.  This  is  especially  deleterious  in  an  age  and 
country  where  active  brains  are  constantly  drawing  blood 
from  the  extremities  to  the  head.  All  furnace-heated  rooms 
have  coldest  air  at  the  feet,  and  warmest  around  the  head. 

What  follows  illustrates  the  principles  on  which  several 
modes  of  ventilation  are  practiced. 

It  is  tbe  common  property  of  both  air  and  water  to  ex- 
pand, become  lighter  and  rise,  just  in  proportion  as  they  are 
heated ;  and  thei'efore  it  is  the  invariable  law  that  cool  air 
sinks,  thus  replacing  the  warmer  air  below.  Thus,  whenever 
cool  air  enters  a  warm  room,  it  sinks  downw.ard  and  takes 
the  place  of  an  equal  amount  of  the  warmer  air,  which  is 
constantly  tending  upward  and  outward.  This  principle  of 
all  fluids  is  illusti*ated  by  the  following  experiment : 

Take  a  glass  jar  about  a  foot  high  and  three  inches  in  di- 
ameter, and  with  a  wire  to  aid  in  placing  it  aright,  sink  a 
small  bit  of  lighted  candle  so  as  to  stand  in  the  centre  at 
the  bottom.  (Fig.  34.)  The  candle  will  heat  the  air  of  the 
jar,  which  will  rise  a  little  on  one  side,  while  the  colder  air 
without  will  begin  falling  on  the  other  side.  These  two 
currents  will  so  conflict  as  Anally  to  cease,  and  then  the 
candle,  having  no  supply  of  oxygen  from  fresh  air,  will  be- 
gin to  ^o  out.     Insert  a  bit  of  stiff  paper  so  as  to  divide  the 


THX  B0US8EBBPXS  ASD   HXALTHeSXPBB. 

"B-M-  month  of  the  jar,  and  inBtantly 

^       the  cold  and  warm  air  are  not  in 
^      .  ,  ■  ^  conflict  as  before,  because  a  cnr- 

^^^      ^^j^         rent  is  formed  each  side  of  the 
■^         ^        1.  ^         paper;  the  cold  air  descending 
^>\(Lf  on  one  aide. and  the- warm  air 

ascending  the  other  side,  as  indicated 
by  the  arrows.  As  long  as  the  paper 
remains,  the  candle  will  bum,  and  as 
soon  as  it  is  removed,  it  will  begin  to 
go  out,  and  can  be  restored  by  again  in- 
serting the  paper. 


This  illustrates 
I  the  mode  by  which 
I  coal-mines  are  ven- 
tilated when  filled 
with  carbonic  acid. 
A  shaft  divided 
into  two  passages, 
(Figure  35,)  is  let 
down  into  the 
mine,  where  the  lur  is  warmer  than 
the  ontside  air.  Immediately  the 
colder  air  ontside  presses  down  into 
the  mine,  through  the  passage  which 
is  highest,  being  admitted  by  the  es- 
cape of  an  equal  quantity  of  the  warm- 
er air,  which  rises  through  the  lower 
passage  of  the  shaft,  this  being  the 
first  available  opening  for  it  to  rise 
through.  A  current  ia  thus  created, 
-which  continues  as  long  as  the  inside 
air  is  warmer  than  that  without  the 
mine,  and  no  longer.  Sometimes  a  firo 
is  kindled  in  the  mine,  in  order  to  con- 
tinue or  increase  the  warmth,  aqd  con- 
sequent upward  current  of  its  air. 

It  18  on  this  plan  that  many  school- 
honses  and  manufactories  have  been 


.    Fig-BO. 


ON  WASHING  ▲  HOME.  169 

ventilated.  Its  grand  defect  is,  that  it  fails  altogether  when 
the  air  oatside  the  house  is  at  the  same  temperature  as  that 
within.  This  illustrates  one  of  the  cases  where  a  '^wise 
woman  that  buildeth  her  house 'Vis  greatly  needed.  For, 
owing  to  the  ignorance  of  architects,  house-builders,  and 
men  in  general,  they  have  been  building  school-houses, 
dwelling-houses,  churches,  and  colleges,  with  the  most  ab- 
surd and  senseless  contrivances  for  ventilation,  and  all  from 
not  applying  this  principle  of  science.  On  this  point,  Pro- 
fessor Brewer,  of  the  Scientific  School  of  Yale  College,  writes 
thus: 

'^  I  have  been  in  public  buildings,  (I  have  one  in  mind 
now,  filled  with  dormitories,)  which  cost  half  a  million, 
where  they  attempted  to  ventilate  6 very  room  by  a  single 
flue,  long  and  narrow,  built  into  partition  walls,  and  ex- 
tending up  into  the  capacious  gairet  of  the  fifth  story.  Ev- 
ery room  in  the  building  had  one  such  flue,  with  an  opening 
into  it  at  the  floor  and  at  the  ceiling.  It  is  needless  to  say 
that  the  whole  concern  was  entirely  useless.  Had  these  flues 
been  of  proper  proportions,  and  properly  divided,  the  de- 
sired ventilation  would  have  been  secured."  And  this  piece 
of  Ignorant  folly  was  perpetrated  in  the  midst  of  learned 
professors,  teaching  the  laws  of  fluids  and  the  laws  of 
health! 

In  a  cold  climate  and  wintry  weather,  the  grand  impedi- 
ment to  ventilating  rooms  by  opening  doors  or  windows  is 
the  dangerous  currents  thus  produced,  which  are  so  injuri- 
ous to  the  delicate  ones  that  for  their  sake  it  can  not  be. 
done.  Then,  also,  as^  a  matter  of  economy,  the  poor  can  not 
aflbrd  to  practice  a  method  which  carries  off  the  heat  gener- 
ated by  their  stinted  store  of  fuel  Even  in  a  warm  season 
and  climate,  there  are  frequent  periods  when  the  air  without 
is  damp  and  chilly,  and  yet  at  nearly  the  same  temperature  as 
that  in  the  house.  At  such  times  even  the  opening  of  win- 
dows often  has  little  effect  in  emptying  a  room  of  vitiated 
air.  ■ 

The  most  successful  mode  of  ventilating  a  house  is  by 
creating  a  current  of  warm  air  in  a  flue,  into  which  an  open- 
ing is  made  at  both  the  top  and  the  bottom  of  a  room,  to 

8 


170      THE  H0U8EKSEPSB  AND  HBALTHKSSPEB. 

carry  off  the  impure  air,  while  a  similar  opening  to  admit 
outside  air  is  made  at  the  opposite  side  of  the  room.  This 
is  the  mode  employed  in  chemical  laboratories  for  removing 
smells  and  injurious  gases. 

These  statements  give  some  idea  of  the  evils  to  be  reme- 
died. But  tGe  most  difficult  point  is  hou)  to  secure  the  rem- 
edy ;  foe  often  the  attempt  to  secure  pure  air  by  one  class 
of  persons  brings  chills,  colds,  and  disease  on  another  class, 
from  mere  ignorance  or  mismanagement. 

To  illustrate  this,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  those 
who  live  in  warm,  close,  and  unventilated  rooms  are  much 
more  liable  to  take  cold  from  exposure  to  di-aughts  and  cold 
air  than  those  of  vigorous  vitality  accustomed  to  breathe 
pure  air. 

Thus  the  strong  and  healthy  husband,  feeling  the  want  of 
pure  air  in  the  night,  and  knowing  its  importance,  keeps  win- 
dows open,  and  makes  such  draughts  that  the  wife,  who  lives 
all  day  in  a  close  room,  and  thus  is  low  in  vitality,  can  not 
bear  the  change,  has  colds,  and  sometimes  perishes- a  victim 
to  wrong  modes  of  ventilation. 

So,  even  in  health-establishments,  the  patients  will  pass 
most  of  their  days  and  nights  in  badly-ventilated  rooms. 
But  at  times  the  physician,  or  some  earnest  patient,  insists 
on  a  mode  of  ventilation  that  brings  more  evil  than  good  to 
the  delicate  inmates. 

The  grand  art  of  ventilating  houses  is  by  some  method 
that  will  empty  rooms  of  the  vitiated  air  and  bring  in  a  sup- 
ply of  pure  air  by  small  and  imperceptible  currents. 

But  this  important  duty  of  a  Christian  woman  is  one  that 
demands  more  science,  care,  and  attention  than  almost  any 
other ;  and  yet,  to  prepare  her  for  this  duty  has  never  been 
any  part  of  female  education.  Toung  women  are  taught  to 
draw  mathematical  diagrams  and  to  solve  astronomical  prob- 
lems; but  few,  if. any,  of  them  are  taught  to  solve  the  prob- 
lem of  a  house  constructed  to  secure  pure  and  moist  air  by 
day  and  night  for  all  its  inmates  by  safe  methods. 

We  have  seen  the  process  through  which  the  air  is  rendered 
unhealthful  by  close  rooms  and  want  of  ventilation.  Every 
person  inspires  air  about  twenty  times  each  minute,  using 


ON  WASHING  A  HOME.  171 

h&lf  a  pint  each  time.  At  this  rate,  every  pair  of  lungs  viti- 
ates one  hogshead  of  air  every  hoar.  The  membrane  that 
lines  the  multitudinous  air-cells  of  the  lungs  in  which  the 
capillaries  are,  should  it  be  united  in  one  sheet,  would  cover 
the  floor  of  a  room  twelve  feet  square.  Every  breath  brings 
a  surface  of  air  in  contact  with  this  extent  of  capillaries, 
by  which  the  air  inspired  gives  up  most  of  its  oxygen  and 
receives  carbonic  acid  in  its  stead.  These  facts  furnish  a 
guide  for  the  proper  ventilation  of  rooms.  Just  in  propor- 
tion to  the  number  of  persons  in  a  room  or  a  ho&se  should 
be  the  amount  of  air  brought  in  and  carried  out  by  arrange- 
ments for  ventilation.  But  how  rarely  is  this  rule  regard- 
ed in  building  houses  or  in  the  care  of  families  by  house- 
keepers ! 

As  a  guide  to  proportioning  the  air  admitted  and  dis- 
charged to  the  number  of  persons,  we  have  the  following 
calculation :  On  an  average,  every  adult  vitiates  about  half 
a  pint  of  air  at  each  inspiration,  and  inspii-es  twenty  times 
a. minute.  This  would  amount  to  one  hos:sbead  of  air  vi- 
tiated  every  hour  by  every  grown  pci*son.  To  keep  the  air 
pure,  this  amount  should  enter  and  be  carried  out  every 
hour  for  each  person.  If,  then,  ten  persons  assemble  in  a 
dining-room,  ten  hogsheads  of  air  should  enter  and  ten  be 
discharged  each  hour.  By  the  same  rule,  a  gathering  of 
five  hundred  persons  demands  the  entrance  and  discharge 
of  five  hundred  hogsheads  of  air  every  hour,  and  a  thousand 
persons  require  a  thousand  hogsheads  of  air  every  hour. 

Therefore  in  calculating  the  size  of  registers  and  conduct- 
ors, we  must  have  reference  to  the  number  of  persons  who 
are  to  abide  in  a  dwelling;  while  for  rooms  or  halls  intend- 
ed for  large  gatherings  a  far  greater  allowance  must  be 
made. 

The  most  successful .  aiTangement  for  both  warming  and 
ventilation,  is  that  employed  by  Lewis  Leeds  to  ventilate  the 
military  hospitals,  and  also  the  treasury  building  at  Washing- 
ton. It  is  modeled  strictly  after  the  mode  adopted  by  the 
Creator  in  warming  and  ventilating  the  earth,  the  home  of 
his  great  earthly  family.  It  aims  to  have  a  passage  of  pure 
air  through  every  room,  as  the  breezes  pass  over  the  hills, 


174  .     THB  HOUBBKESPBB  AND  HBALTHBEBPBB. 

and  thas  be  partially  wanned.  The  vitiated  air  is  earned 
off  at  the  bottom  of  the  roongi  through  the  open  Btoves,  and 
also  at  the  top  by  a  register  opening  into  a  condactor  to  the 
exhausting  warm-air  shafl^  which,  it  will  be  remembered,  is 
the  square  chimney,  containing  the  iron,  pipe  which  receives 
the  kitchen  stove-pipe.  The  stove-room  receives  pure  air 
from  the  conductor,  and  sends  off  impure  air  and  the  smells 
of  cooking  by  a  register  opening  directly  into  the  exhaust- 
ing shaft ;  while  its  hot  air  and  smoke,  passing  through  the 
iron  pipe,  heat  the  ale  of  the  shaft,  and  produce  the  exhaust- 
ing curre'nt. 

The  large  chambers  on  the  second  floor  Jl^ig.  18)  have 
pure  air  conducted  from  the  stove-room  through  registers 
that  can  be  closed  if  the  heat  or  smells  of  cooking  are  un- 
pleasant. The  air  in  the  stove-room  will  always  be  moist 
from  the  water  of  the  stove  boiler. 

The  small  chambers  h&ve  pure  air  admitted,  from  windows 
sunk  at  top  half  an  inch  ;  and  the  warm,  vitiated  air  is  con- 
ducted by  a  register  in  the  ceiling  which  opens  into  a  con- 
ductor to  the  exhausting  warm-air  shaft  at  the  centre  of  the 
bouse,  as  shown  in  Fig.  23. 

The  basement  or  cellar  is  ventilated  by  an  opening  into 
the  exhausting  air-shaft^  to  remove  impure  air,  and  a  small 
opening  over  each  glazed  door  to  admit  pure  air.  The  doors 
open  out  into  a  "  well,"  or  recess,  excavated  in  the  earth  be- 
fore the  cellar,  for  the  admission  of  light  and  air,  neatly 
bricked  up  and  whitewashed.  The  doors  are  to  be  made  en- 
tirely of  strong,  thick  glass  sashes,  and  this  will  give  light 
enough  for  laundry  work — the  tubs  and  ironing-table  being 
placed  closed  to  the  glazed  door.  Ttie  floor  must  be  plas- 
tered with  watcr-Iime,  and  the  walls  and  ceiling  be  white- 
washed, which  will  add  reflected  light  to  tlTe  room.  There 
will  thus  be  no  need  of  other  windows,  and  the  house  need 
not  be  raised  above  the  ground.  Se^ral  cottages  have  been 
built  thus,*so  that  the  ground-floors  and  conservatories  ai-e 
nearly  on  the  same  level ;  and  all  agree  that  they  are  pleas- 
anter  than  when  raised  higher. 

Whenawiridow  in  any  room  is  sunk  at  the  top^it  should 
:have  anaiTow  shelf  in  front  inclined  to  the  opening,  so  as  to 


ON  WAItMING  A  HOME.  175 

1 

keep  out  the  rain.  In  small  chambers  for  one  person^  an 
inch  opening  is  sufficient,  and  in  larger  rooms  for  two  per- 
sons a  two-inch  opening  is  needed.  The  openings  into  the 
exhausting-air  flue  should  vary  from  eight  inches  to  twelve 
inches  square,  or  more,  according  to  the  number  of  persons 
who  are  to  sleep  in  the  room. 

The  time  when  ventilation  is  most  difficult  is  the  medium 
weather  in  spring  and  fall,  when  the  air,  though  damp,  is 
similar  in  temperature  outside  and  in.  Then  the  warm-air 
flue  is  indispensable  to  proper  ventilation.  This  is  especial- 
ly needed  in  a  room  used  for  school  or  church  purposes. 

Every  room  should  have  its  air  i*egulated  not  only  as  to 
its  warmth  and  purity,  but  also  as  to  its  supply  of  moisture ; 
and  for  this  purpose  will  be  found  very  convenient  the  in- 
strument called  the  hygrodeik,*  which  shows  at  once  the 
temperature  and  the  moisture. 

The  preceding  remarks  illustrate  the  advantages  of  the 
cottage  plan  in  respect  to  healthful  ventilation.  The  econo- 
my of  the  mode  of  warming  next  demands  attention.  In  the 
first  place,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  chimney  being  at  the 
centre  of  the  house,  no  heat  is  lost  by  its  radiation  through 
outside  walls  into  open  air,  as  is  the  case  with  all  fire-places 
and  grates  that  have  their  backs  and  flues  joined  to  an  out- 
side wall. 

In  this  plan  all  the  radiated  heat  from  the  stove  serves 
to  warm  the  walls  of  adjacent  rooms  in  cold  weather ;  while 
in  the  warm  season  the  non-conducting  summer  casings  of 
the  stove  descnbed  in  the  next  chapter  send  all  the  heat 
cither  into  the  exhausting  warm-air  shaft  or  into  the  central 
cast-iron  pipe.  In  addition,  the  sliding  doors  of  the  stove- 
room  (which  should  be  only  six  feet  high,  meeting  *the  par- 
tition coming  from  the  ceiling),  can  be  opened  in  cool  days, 
and  then  the  beat  from  the  stove  would  temper  the  rooms 
each  side  of  the  kitchen.  In  hot  weather  they  could  be  kept 
closed,  except  when  the  stove  is  used,  and  then  opened  only 
for  a  short  time.  The  Franklin  stoves  in  the  large  room 
would  give,  the  i-adiating  warmth  and  cheerful  blaze  of  an 

*  It  is  mannfactared  by  N.  M.  Lowe,  Boston,  and  sold  by.  bim  aijd  J. 
Qaeen  &  Co.,  Fhiladelpbia. 


170  TUB  HOUSSKBEPEB  AND  ^KiXTHKEEPEB. 

open  fire,  while  radiating  heat  also  from  all  their  sui-facea 
In  cold  weather  the  air  of  the  larger  chambers  could  be 
tempered  by  registers  admitting  warm  air  from  the  stove- 
room,  which  would  always  be  sufficiently  moistened  by 
evaporation  fro^  the  stationary  boiler.  The  conservatories 
in  winter,  protected  from  frost  by  double  sashes,  would  con- 
tribute agreeable  moisture  to  the  larger  rooms.  In  case  the 
size  of  a  family  required  more  rooms,  another  story  could  be 
ventilated  and  warmed  by  the  same  mode,  with  little  addi- 
tional expense. 

We  will  next  notice  the  economy  of  time,  labor,  and  ex- 
pense secured  by  this  cottage  plan.  The  laundry  work  be- 
ing done  in  the  basement,  all  the  cooking,  dish-washing,  etc., 
can  be  done  in  the  kitchen  and  stove-room  on  the  ground- 
floor.  But  in  case  a  larger  kitchen  is  needed,  the  lounges 
can  be  put  in  the  front  part  of  the  large  room,  and  the  mov- 
able screen  placed  so  as  to  give  a  work-room  adjacent  to 
the  kitchen,  and  the  front  side  of  the  same  be  used  for  the 
eating-room.  Where  the  movable  screen  is  used,  the  floor 
should  be  oiled  wood.  A  square  piece  of  carpet  can  be  put 
in  the  centre  of  the  front  part  of  the  i*oom,  to  keep  the  feet 
warm  when  sitting  around  the  table,  and  small  rugs  can  be 
placed  before  the  lounges  or  other  sitting-places,  for  the 
same  purpose. 

Most  t;ottages  are  so  divided  by  entries,  stairs,  closets, 
etc.,. that  th^re  can  be  no  large  rooms.  But  in  this  plan,  by 
the  use  of  the  movable  screen,  two  fine  large  rooms  can  be 
secured  whenever  the  family  work  is  over,  while  the  con- 
veniences for  work  will  very  much  lessen  the  time  required. 

In  certain  cases,  where  the  closest  economy  is  needful, 
two  small  families  can  occupy  the  cottage,  by  having  a 
movable  screen  in  both  rooms,  and  using  the  kitchen  in 
common,  or  divide  it  and  have  two  smaller  stoves.  Each 
kitchen  will  then  have  a  window,  and  as  much  room  as  is 
given  to  the  kitchen  in  great  steamers  that  provide  for  sev- 
eral hundred. 

Whoever  plans  a  house  with  a  view  to  economy  must  ar- 
range rooms  around  a  central  chimney,  and  avoid  all  project- 
ing appendages.    Dormer-windows  are  far  more  expensive 


ON  WABMIKa  A  HOMS.  -  177 

than  common  ones,  and  are  less  pleasant  Every  addition 
projecting  from  a  main  building  greatly  increases  expense 
of  building,  and  still  more  of  warming  and  ventilating. 

It  should  be  introduced,  as  one  school  exercise  in  every 
female  seminary,  to  plan  houses  with  reference  to  economy 
of  time,  labor,  and  expense,  and  also  with  reference  to  good 
architectural  taste ;  and  the  teacher  should  be  qualified  to 
point  out  faults  and  give  the  instruction  needed  to  pre- 
vent such  mistakes  in  practical  life.  Every  girl  should  be 
trained  to  be  "  a  wise  woman  **  that  "  buildeth  her  house  ** 
aright. 

There  is  but  one  mode  of  ventilation  yet  tried  that  will, 
at  all  seasons  of  the  year  and  all  hours  of  the  day  and  night, 
secure  pure  air  without  dangerous  draughts,  and  that  is  by 
an  exhausting  warm-air  flue.  This  is  always  secured  by  an 
open  fire-place,  so  long  as  its  chimney  is  kept  warm  by  any 
fire.  And  in  many  cases,  a  fire-place  with  a  flue  of  a  cer- 
tain dimension  and  height  will  secure  good  ventilation,  ex- 
cept when  the  air  without  and  within  is  at  the  same  tem- 
perature. 

When  no  exhausting  warm-air  flue  can  be  used,  the  open- 
ing of  doors  and  windows  is  the  only  resort.  Every  sleep- 
ing-room without  a  fire-place  that  dratos  smoke  well  should 
have  a  window  raised  at  the  bottom  or  sunk  at  the  top  at 
least  an  inch,  with  an  inclined  shelf  outside  or  in,  to  keep 
out  rain,  and  then  it  is  properly  ventilated,  provided  the  air 
outside  is  colder  than  the  inside  air  —  but  not  otherwise. 
Or  a  door  should  be  kept  opened  into  a  hall  with  an  open 
window.  Let  the  bed-clothing  be  increased,  so  as  to  keep 
warm  in  bed,  and  protect  the  head  also,  and  then  the  more 
air  comes  into  a  sleeping-room  the  better  for  health. 

In  reference  to  the  warming  of  rooms  and  houses  already 
built,  there  is  no  doubt  that  stoves  are  the  most  economical 
mode,  as  they  radiate  heat  and  also  warm  by  convection. 
The  grand  objection  to  their  use  is  the  difficulty  of  securing 
proper  ventilation.  If  a  room  is  well  warmed  by  a  stove, 
and  then  several  small  openings  made  for  the  entrance  of  a 
good  supply  of  outdoor  air,  and  by  a  mode  that  will  prevent 
dangerous  draughts,  all  is  right  as  to  pure  air.    But  in  this 

8* 


178      THB  HOUSEKSBPBB  AND  HSALTHKEEPBB. 

case  the  feet  are  always  on  cold  floora,  snironnded  by  the 
coldest  air,  while  the  head  is  in  air  of  much  higher  temper- 
ature. 

The  writer  believes  that  ere  long  the  common  mode  of 
warming  by  furnaces  will  be  banished  as  most  pernicious 
to  healthy  and  constant  sources  of  discomfort  and  economic 
waste.  The  reasons  for  this  demand  reference  to  some  of 
the  principles  of  pneumatics. 

It  has  been  shown  how  the  air  is  heated  by  convection^  or 
changing  contact.  It  is  thus  the  atmosphere  is  warmed,  not 
by  the  rays  of  the  sun  passing  through  it,  but  by  contact 
with  the  earth  and  other  objects  which  have  been  warmed 
by  radiated  heat  from  the  sun.  The  lower  stratum  of  air 
being  thus  warmed,  becomes  lighter,  and  ascends,  giving 
place  to  the  cooler  and  heavier  air.  This  process  continues, 
so  that  the  warmest  air  is  always  nearest  the  earth,  and 
grows  cooler  as  height  increases. 

The  air  has  a  strong  attracti&n  for  water,  and  always  holds 
a  certain  quantity  as  an  invisible  vapor.  The  warmer  the 
air  the  more  water  it  demands,  and  will  draw  it  from  all 
objects  it  can  reach.  When  air  cools,  it  deposits  its  invisi- 
ble'moisture  as  dew.  When  the  air  has  all  the  water  it  can 
hold,  it  is  said  to.be  saturated;  and  when  it  cools  so  as  to  be- 
gin to  deposit  moisture,  it  is  called  the  dew  point. 

When  air  holds  all  the  moisture  it  can  sustain,  its  moisture 
is  said  to  be  at  100  per  cent. ;  when  it  holds  only  one-half  as 
much  as  its  temperature  demands,  it  is  said  to  be  at  50  per 
cent. ;  and  when  it  holds  three-fourths  of  what  its  tempera- 
ture require8,it  is  at  75  per  cent. ;  and  when  only  one-fourth, 
it  holds  25  per  cent. 

In  summer,  outdoor  air  rarely  holds  less  than  half  its  vol- 
ume of  water ;  that  is,  a  quart  of  air  usually  holds  as  much 
as  a  pint  of  invisible  vapor.  In  1838,  at  Harvard  and  Yale, 
at  70**  Fahrenheit,  the  air  held  80  per  cent,  of  moisture;  at 
New  Orleans  it  often  holds  90  per  cent. ;  at  the  North,  in 
fogs,  the  air  often  holds  all  it  can,  or  is  saturated — that  is, 
holding  100  per  cent.  Thus  it  appears  that  the  hotter  the 
air,  the  more  water  is'demanded  by  it  for  invisible  vapor,  and 
this  it  takes  from  all  around. 


ON  WAEMINO  A  HOME.  179 

Professor  Bremer,  of  Yale  College,  states  that  40  per  cent 
of  moisture  is  needed  to  make  air  healthful.  Now  funiaces 
receive  cold  air  containing  little  invisible  moisture,  and  by- 
heating  it  a  demand  is  created  for  much  more.  This  is 
sucked  up,  as  by  a  sponge,  from  walls  and  furniture,  an'd  es- 
pecially from  the  lungs  and  capillaries  of  our  bodies,  thus 
causing  dryness  and  sometimes  inflammation  of  lips,  nose, 
eyes,  throat,  and  lungs.  Experiments  prove  that  while  40 
per  cent,  of  moisture  is  needed  for  health,  fui*nace-heated  air 
rarely  has  as  much  as  20  per  cent.,  even  when  a  few  quarts  of 
water  are  evaporated  in  the  furnace  chamber.  Thus  the  in- 
mates of  the  house  breathe  dryer  air  than  is  ever  breathed 
in  the  hottest  deserts  of  Sahara. 

Thus,  for  want  of  proper  instruction,  most  American  house- 
keepers who  use  stoves  and  furnaces  not  only  poison  their 
families  with  carbonic  acid  and  carbonic  oxide,  and  starve 
them  for  want  of  oxygen,  but  also  diminish  health  and  com- 
fort for  want  of  a  due  supply  of  moisture  in  the  air.  .  And 
oflen  when  a  remedy  is  sought,  by  evaporating  water  in 
the  furnace,  or  on  the  stove,  it  is  without  knowing  that  the 
amount  evaporated  depends,  not  on  the  quantity  of  water  in 
the  vessel,  but  on  the  extent  of  evaporating  surface  exposed 
to  the  air.  A  quart  of  water  in  a  wide  shallow  pan  willgive 
more  moisture  than  two  gallons  with  a  small  surface  exposed* 
to  heat. 

• 

There  is  also  no  little  wise  economy  in  keeping  a  proper 
supply  of  moisture  in  the  air.  For  it  is  found  that  the  body 
radiates  its  heat  less  in  moist  than  in  dry  air,  so  that  a  per- 
son feels  as  warm  at  a  lower  temperature  when  the  air  has 
a  proper  supply  of  moisture,  as  in  a  much  higher  tempera- 
ture of  dry  air.  Of  course,  less  fuel  is  needed  to  warm  a 
house  when  water  is  evaporated  in  stove  and  furnace-heated 
rooms.  It  is  said  by  those  who  have  experimented,  that  the 
saving  in  fuel  is  twenty  per  cent,  when  the  air  is  duly  sup-  ' 
plied  with  moisture. 

There  are  other  difficulties  connected  with  furnaces  which 
should  be  considered. 

The  human  body  is  constantly  radiating  its  heat  to  walls, 
floors,  and  cooler  bodies  around.     At  the  same  time,  a  therr 


180      THE  HOUSSKSEPBR  AND  HEALTHKBSPEB. 

mometer  is  affected  in  the  isame  way,  radiating  its  heat  to 
cooler  bodies  around,  so  that  it  always  marks  a  lower  degree 
of  heat  than  actually  exists  in  the  warm  air  around  it.  Ow- 
ing to  these  facts,  the  injected  air  of  a  furnace  is  always 
warmer  than  is  good  for  the  lungs,  and  much  warmer  than 
is  ever  needed  in  rooms  warmed  by  radiation  from  fires  or 
heated  surfaces.  The  cooler  the  air  we  inspire,  the  more 
oxygen  is  received,  the  faster  the  blood  circulates,  and  the 
greater  is  the  vigor  imparted  to  brain,  nerves,  and  muscles. 

Every  woman  ought  to  know  all  the  dangers  connected 
with  furnaces  and  how  to  remedy  them.  The  following  may 
aid  in  this  duty : 

When  a  furnace  does  not  draw  well,  it  often  is  owing  to 
the  stoppage  by  fine  ashes  or  soot,  and  then  the  smoke-flues 
must  be  cleaned.  The  fewer  and  more  simple  the  smoke- 
flues  the  less  this  trouble  will  occur.  Sometimes  the  shak- 
ing of  a  furnace  makes  cracks  in  joints,  and  this  causes  out- 
flow of  gas  and  also  diminishes  the  draught. 

When  iron  is  very  hot,  it  bums  the  particles  floating  in 
the  air,  making  an  unpleasant  smell  and  dryness.  A  large 
fqmace,  therefore,  is  better  than  a  small  one  that  must  be 
kept  very  hot. 

Water  should  be  evaporated  in  large  surfaces,  and  so  as 
to  deposit  dew  on  windows. 

Heated  air  passes  off  by  the  shortest  courses,  and  it  is  oft- 
en the  case  that  the  more  distant  rooms  thus  warmed  have 
no  ventilation  and  little  renewal  from  the  furnace  air,  and 
this*  is  often  shown  by  a  fetid  smell. 

Furnaces  where  air  is  heated  in  the  furnace-chamber  by 
coils  of  steam  or  by  hot  water,  though  costing  piore  at  first, 
require  much  less  fuel,  and  do  not  involve  the  evils  of  warm- 
ing by  hot  iron. 

The  safest  and  pleasantest  way  of  warming  a  dwelling  is 
by  steam-coils,  provided  there  are  fire-places  or  hot-air  flues 
to  carry  off  bad  air.  Without  these,  this  is  the  most  un- 
healthful  mode  of  all,  as  there  is  no  fresh  air  brought  in,  and 
what  is  heated  is  breathed  over  and  over,  till  it  is  poisonous. 

The  want  of  care  in  regulating  the  dampers  of  the  air- 
box  often  makes  a  house  cold,  however  great  the  furnace 


ON  WABMIKG  A  HOME.  1^1 

fire.  A  strong  wind  requires  the  dampers  nearly  closed, 
especially  when  it  is  on  the  side  where  the  air  enters  from 
without.  Every  furnace  should  be  supplied,  not  by  cellar 
air,  but  by  air  taken  through  a  shaft  from  a  height,  and  so 
more  pure. 

Remember  that  an  open  fire,  or  an  opening  into  a  hot-air 
flue,  will  ventilate  properly  in  all  seasons  and  all' weathers. 
The  opening  should  be  at  both  the  top  and  bottom  of  the 
room. 


182      THX  HOUSEKSSPEB  AND  HEALTHKESPSB. 


CHAPTER  V. 

ON   BTOYES  AND  CHIMNEYS. 

The  simplest  mode  of  warming  a  honse  and  cooking  food 
is  by  radiated  heat  from  fires ;  but  this  is  the  most  wasteful 
method,  as  respects  time,  labor,  and  expense.  The  most 
convenient,  economical,  and  labor-saving  mode  of  employing 
heat  is  by  convection^  as  applied  in  stoves  and  furnaces ; 
but  for  want  of  proper  care  and  scientific  knowledge  this 
method  has  proved  very  destructive  to  health.  When 
warming  and  cooking  were  done  by  open  fires,  houses  were 
well  supplied  with  pure  air,  as  is  rarely  the  case  in  rooms 
heated  by  stoves;  for  such  is  the  prevailing  ignorance  on 
this  subject,  that  as  long  as  stoves  save  labor  and  warm  the 
air,  the  great  majonty  of  people,  especially  among  the  igno- 
rant, will  use  them  in  ways  that  involve  debilitated  consti- 
tutions and  frequent  disease. 

The  most  common  modes  of  cooking,  where  open  fires  arc 
relinquished,  are  by  the  range  and  the  cooking-stove.  The 
range  is  inferior  to  the  stove  in  these  respects:  it  is  less 
economical,  demanding  much  more  fuel ;  it  endangers  the 
dress  of  the  cook  while  standing  near  for  various  opera- 
tions; it  requires  more  stooping  than  the  stove  while  cook- 
ing; it  will  not  keep  a  fire  all  night,  as  do  the  best  stoves; 
it  will  not  bum  wood  and  coal  equally  well ;  and  lastly,  if  it 
warms  the  kitchen  sufficiently  in  winter,  it  is  too  warm  for 
summer.  Some  prefer  it  because  the  fumes  of  cooking  can 
be  carried  off;  but  stoves  properly  arranged  accomplish 
this  equally  well. 

After  extensive  inquiry  and  many  personal  experiments, 
the  author  has  found  a  cooking-stove  constructed  on  true 
scientific  principles,  .which  unites  convenience,  comfort,  and 
economy,  in  a  remarkable  manner;  and  this  is  the  one  re- 
ferred to  in  the  kitchen  of  the  cottage  described  in  Chapter 
IV.     Of  this  stove  drawings  and  descriptions  will  now  be 


OS  STOVES  AND  CHnCNETS.  183 

giveu,  as  the  best  mode  of  illastrating  the  pi-actic&l  applicit- 
tioDB  of  tiieEe  principles  to  tbe  art  of  cooking,  and  to  show 
how  mnch  American  women  have  suffered,  and  how  mnch 
they  have  been  imposed  npon  for  "want  of  proper  knovledge 
in  this  branch  of  their  proression.  And  every  woman  con 
understand  what  follows  with  much  less  effort  than  young 
girls  at  high-schoola  give  to  the  tirst  pi-oblems  of  Geometry 
— for  which  they  will  never  have  any  practical  use,  while  at- 
tention to  this  problem  of  home  affairs  will  cultivate  the  in* 


tellect  quite  as  mnch  as  the  abstract  reasonings  of  Algebra 
and  Geometry. 

Fig.  36  represents  a  portion  of  the  interior  of  this  cook- 
ing-atove,  Fii-st,  Dotice  the  fire-box,  which  has  corrngated 
(literally,  wrinkled)  sides,  by  which  space  is  economized,  so 
that  as  much  heating  Burface  is  secured  as  if  they  were  one- 
third  larger;  for  the  heat  radiates  from  every  part  of  the 
undulating  surface,  which  is  one-third  greater  in  superficial 


Id4      THB  H0U8KKESPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

extent  than  if  it  were  plane.  The  shape  of  the  fire-box  also 
secures  more  heat  by  having  oblique  sides — which  radiate 
more  effectively  into  the  oven  beneath  than  if  they  were 
perpendicular,  as  illustrated  by  Figs.  37  and  38.  It  ia  also 
sunk  into  the  oven,  so  as  to  radiate  from  three  instead  of 
from  two  sides.  Ia  most  other  stoves,  the  front  of  the  fire- 
pj   ^  boxes  with  their  grates  are         fi^.ss. 

'  ^_   built  so  as  to  be  the  front  of 


HRE:  1^:::::   the   stove  itself,  and  radiate 
V^-^p/x; '1  -outward  chiefly. 
//•  \\VO  "^^  oven  is  the  space  un- 

OVEti  '  der  and  around  the  back  and 

front  sides  of  the  fire-box.    The 


HRB 
BOX 


• ; !  «  »  \  *  \  ^ 

OVEN 


Model  stove.  i.      .  •  .  •    .      ^         a        Ordinary  Stove. 

oven-bottom  IS  not  introduced 
in  the  diagram,  but  it  is  a  horizontal  plate  between  the 
fire-box  and  what  is  represented  as  the  "flue-plate,**  which 
separates  the  oven  from  the  bottom  of  the  stove.  The  top 
of  the  oven  is  the  honzontal  corrugated  plate  passing  from 
the  rear  edge  of  the  fire-box  to  the  back  flues.  These  flues 
are  three  in  number — the  back  centre-flue,  which  is  closed  to 
the  heat  and  smoke  coming  over  the  oven  from  the  fire-box 
by  a  damper,  and  the  two  back  comer-flues.  Down  these 
two  comer-flues  passes  the  current  of  hot  air  and  smoke,  hav- 
ing first  drawn  across  the  corrugated  oven-top.  The  arrows 
show  its  descent  through  these  flues,  from  which  it  obliquely 
strikes  and  passes  over  the  flue-plate,  then  under  it,  and  then 
out  through  the  centre  back-flue,  which  is  open  at  the  bot- 
tom, up  into  the  smoke-pipe. 

The  flue-plate  is  placed  obliquely,  to  accumulate  heat  by 
forcing  and  compression;  for  the  back  space  where  the 
smoke  enters  from  the  comer-flues  is  largest,  and  decreases 
toward  the  front,  so  that  the  hot  current  is  compressed  in  a 
narrow  space,  between  the  oven-bottom  and  the  flue-plate 
at  the  place  where  the  bent  arrows  are  seen.  Here  again  it 
enters  a  wider  space,  under  the  flue-plate,  and  proceeds  to 
another  narrow  one,  between  the  flue-plate  and  the  bottom 
of  the  stove,  and  thus  is  compressed  and  retained  longer 
than  if  not  impeded  by  these  various  contrivances.  The 
heat  and  smoke  also  strike  the  plate  obliquely,  and  thus,  by 


ON  KTOyJSS  AND  CHIMNSYS.  1B5 

Teflection  from  its  surface,  impart  more  heat  than  if  the  pas- 
sage was  a  horizontal  one. 

The  external  radiation  is  regalated  by  the  use  of  non-con- 
ducting plaster  applied  to  the  flue-plate  and  to  the  sides  of 
the  comer-flues^  so  that  the  heat  is  prevented  from  radiating 
in  any  direction  except  toward  the  oven.  The  doors,  sides, 
and  bottom  of  the  stove  are  lined  with  tin  casings,  which 
hold  a  stratum  of  air  which  is  a  non-conductor.  These  cas- 
ings are  so  arranged  as  to  be  removed  whenever  the  weather 
becomes  cold,  so  that  the  heat  may  then  radiate  into  the 
kitchen.  The  outer  edges  of  the  oven  are  also  similarly  pro- 
tected from  loss  of  heat  by  tin  casings  and  air-spaces,  and 
the  oven  doors  opening  at  the  front  of  the  stove  are  provided 
with  the  same  economical  savers  of  heat.  High  tin  covers 
placed  on  the  top  prevent  the  heat  from  radiating  from  the 
top  of  the  stove.  These  are  exceedingly  useful,  as  the  space 
under  them  is  well  heated  and  arranged  for  baking,  for  heat- 
ing irons,  and  many  other  incidental  necessities..  Cake  and 
pies  can  be  baked  on  the  top,  while  the  oven  is  used  for 
bread  or  for  meats.  When  all  the  casings  and  covers  are  on, 
almost  all  the  heat  is  confined  within  the  stove;  and  when- 
ever heat  for  the  room  is  wanted,  opening  the  front  oven 
doors  turns  it  out  into  the  kitchen. 

Another  contrivance  is  that  of  ventilating-holes  in  the 
front  doors,  through  which  fresh  air  is  brought  into  the  oven. 
This  secures  several  purposes:  it  carries  off  the  fumes  of 
cooking  meats,  and  prevents  the  mixing  of  flavors  when  dif- 
ferent articles  are  cooked  in  the  oven ;  it  drives  the  heat  that 
accumulates  between  the  fire-box  and  front  doors  down 
around  the  oven,  and  equalizes  its  heat,  so  that  articles  need 
not  be  moved  while  baking ;  and  lastly,  as  the  air  passes 
through  the  holes  of  the  fire-box,  it  causes  the  burning  of 
gases  in  the  smoke,  and  thus  increases  heat  When  wood 
or  bituminous  coal  is  used,  perforated  metal  linings  are  put 
in  the  fii*e-box,  and  the  result  is  the  burning  of  smoke  and 
gases  that  otherwise  would  pass  into  the  chimney.  This  is 
a  great  discovery  in  the  economy  of  fuel,  which  can  be  ap- 
plied in  many  ways. 

Heretofore  most  cooking-stoves  have  had  dumping-grates. 


Id4      THE  H0U8KKEEPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

extent  than  if  it  were  plane.  The  shape  of  the  fire-box  also 
secures  more  heat  by  having  oblique  sides — which  radiate 
more  effectively  into  the  oven  beneath  than  if  they  were 
perpendicular,  as  illustrated  by  Figs.  37  and  38.  It  ia  also 
sunk  into  the  oven,  so  as  to  radiate  from  three  instead  of 
from  two  sides.  Ia  most  other  stoves,  the  front  of  the  fire- 
pj   ^  boxes  with  their  grates  are         fi^.ss. 

'  built  so,  as  to  be  the  front  of 

V  HRE  f ::::::   the   stove  itself,  and  radiate 
'\i7i  jT^'x^l'  -outward  chiefly. 
'/\//i\\V\\'         The  oven  is  the  space  un- 
6v£ti  '  der  and  around  the  back  and 


front  sides  of  the  fire-box.   The 


FIRB 
BOX 


.  •  •  • « .  • » *.  ' 
OVEN 


Model  Stove.  -i.    .^         •  ^  •    .      ^         j       Ordinary  Stove. 

oven-bottom  is  not  introduced 
in  the  diagram,  but  it  is  a  horizontal  plate  between  the 
fire-box  and  what  is  represented  as  the  "  flue-plate,"  which 
separates  the  oven  from  the  bottom  of  the  stove.  The  top 
of  the  oven  is  the  horizontal  corrugated  plate  passing  from 
the  rear  edge  of  the  fire-box  to  the  back  flues.  These  flues 
are  three  in  number — the  back  centre-flue,  which  is  closed  to 
the  heat  and  smoke  coming  over  the  oven  from  the  fire-box 
by  a  damper,  and  the  two  back  comer-flues.  Down  these 
two  comer-flues  passes  the  current  of  hot  air  and  smoke,  hav- 
ing first  drawn  across  the  corrugated  oven-top.  The  arrows 
show  its  descent  through  these  fines,  from  which  it  obliquely 
strikes  and  passes  over  the  flue-plate,  then  under  it,  and  then 
out  through  the  centre  back-flue,  which  is  open  at  the  bot- 
tom, up  into  the  smoke-pipe. 

The  flue-plate  is  placed  obliquely,  to  accumulate  heat  by 
forcing  and  compression;  for  the  back  space  where  the 
smoke  enters  from  the  comer-flues  is  largest,  and  decreases 
toward  the  front,  so  that  the  hot  current  is  compressed  in  a 
narrow  space,  between  the  oven-bottom  and  the  flue-plate 
at  the  place  where  the  bent  arrows  are  seen.  Here  again  it 
enters  a  wider  space,  under  the  flue-plate,  and  proceeds  to 
another  narrow  one,  between  the  flue-plate  and  the  bottom 
of  the  stove,  and  thus  is  compressed  and  retained  longer 
than  if  not  impeded  by  these  various  contrivances.  The 
heat  and  smoke  also  strike  the  plate  obliquely,  and  thus,  by 


ON  £TOy£S  AND  CHIMNSYS.  1B5 

TeflectioQ  from  its  surface,  impart  more  heat  than  if  the  pas- 
sage was  a  horizontal  one. 

The  external  radiation  is  regulated  by  the  use  of  non-con- 
ducting plaster  applied  to  the  flue-plate  and  to  the  sides  of 
the  comer-fluesj  so  that  the  heat  is  prevented  from  radiating 
in  any  direction  except  toward  the  oven.  The  doors,  sides, 
and  bottom  of  the  stove  are  lined  with  tin  casings,  which 
hold  a  stratum  of  air  which  is  a  non-conductor.  These  cas- 
ings are  so  arranged  as  to  be  removed  whenever  the  weather 
becomes  cold,  so  that  the  heat  may  then  radiate  into  the 
kitchen.  The  outer  edges  of  the  oven  are  also  similarly  pro- 
tected from  loss  of  heat  by  im  casings  and  air-spaces,  and 
the  oven  doors  opening  at  the  front  of  the  stove  are  provided 
with  the  same  economical  savers  of  heat.  High  tin  covers 
placed  on  the  top  prevent  the  heat  from  radiating  from  the 
top  of  the  stove.  These  are  exceedingly  useful,  as  the  space 
under  them  is  well  heated  and  arranged  for  baking,  for  heat- 
ing irons,  and  many  other  incidental  necessities. .  Cake  and 
pies  can  be  baked  on  the  top,  while  the  oven  is  used  for 
bread  or  for  meats.  When  all  the  casings  and  covers  are  on, 
almost  all  the  heat  is  confined  within  the  stove;  and  when- 
ever heat  for  the  room  is  wanted,  opening  the  front  oven 
doors  turns  it  out  into  the  kitchen. 

Another  contrivance  is  that  of  ventilating-holes  in  the 
front  doors,  through  which  fresh  air  is  brought  into  the  oven. 
This  secures  several  purposes:  it  carries  off  the  fumes  of 
cooking  meats,  and  prevents  the  mixing  of  flavors  when  dif- 
ferent articles  are  cooked  in  the  oven ;  it  drives  the  heat  that 
accumulates  between  the  fire-box  and  front  doors  down 
around  the  oven,  and  equalizes  its  heat,  so  that  articles  need 
not  be  moved  while  baking;  and  lastly,  as  the  air  passes 
through  the  holes  of  the  fire-box,  it  causes  the  burning  of 
gases  in  the  smoke,  and  thus  increases  heat.  When  wood 
or  bituminous  coal  is  used,  perforated  metal  linings  are  put 
in  the  fire-box,  and  the  result  is  the  burning  of  smoke  and 
gases  that  otherwise  would  pass  into  the  chimney.  This  is 
a  great  discovery  in  the  economy  of  fuel,  which  can  be  ap- 
plied in  many  ways. 

Heretofore  most  cooking-stoves  have  had  dumping-grates, 


186      THE  h6uS£KEEP£S  AND  HSALTHKEEPSB. 

which  are  inconvenient  from  the  dust  produced,  are  uneco- 
nomical in  the  use  of  fuel,  and  disadvantageous  from  too 
many  or  too  loose  joints.  I3ut  recently  this  stove  has  been 
provided  with  a  dumping-grate  which  also  will  sift  ashes, 
and  can  be  cleaned  without  dust  and  the  other  objectionable 
features  of  most  dumping-grates. 

Those  who  are  taught  to  manage  the  stove  properly  keep 
the  fire  going  all  night,  and  equally  well  with  wood  or  coal, 
thus  savmg  the  expense  of  kindling  and  the  trouble  of  start- 
ing a  new  fire.  When  the  fuel  is  of  good  quality,  all  that  is 
needed  in  the  morning  is  to  draw  the  back-damper,  shake  the 
grate,  and  add  more  fuel 

Another  remarkable  feature  of  this  stove  is  the  extension- 
top,  on  which  is  placed  a  water  reservoir,  constantly  heated 
by  the  smoke  as  it  passes  from  the  stove,  through  one  or  two 
uniting  passages,  to  the  smoke-pipe.  Under  this  is  placed  a 
closet  for  warming  and  keeping  hot  the  dishes,  vegetables, 
meats,  etc«,  while  preparing  for  dinner.  It  is  also  very  use- 
ful in  drying  fruit ;  and  when  large  baking  is  required,  a 
small  appended  pot  for  charcoal  turns  it  into  a  fine  large 
oven,  that  bakes  as  nicely  as  a  brick  oven. 

Another  useful  appendage  is  a  common  tin  oven,  in  which 
roasting  can.be  done  in  front  of  the  stove,  the  oven  doors 
being  removed  for  the  purpose.  The  roast  will  be  done  as 
perfectly  as  by  an  open  fire. 

This  stoVe  is  famished  with  pipes  for  heating  water,  like 
the  water-back  of  ranges,  and  these  can  be  taken  or  left  out 
at  pleasure.  So  also  the  top  covera,  the  baking  stool  and 
pot,  and  the  summer-back,  bottom,  and  side-casings  can  be 
used  or  omitted  as  preferred. 

Fig.  39  exhibits  the  stove  completed,  with  all  its  append- 
ages, as  they  might  be  employed  in  cooking  for  a  largo 
family. 

Its  capacity,  convenience,  and  economy  as  a  stove  may  be 
estimated  by  the  following  fact :  With  proper  management 
of  dampers,  one  ordipary-sized  coal-hod  of  anthracite  coal 
will,  for  twenty-four  hours,  keep  the  stove  running,  keep 
seventeen  gallons  of  water  hot  at  all  hours,  bake  pies  and. 
puddings  in  the  warm. closet,  heat  flat-irons  under  the  back 


ON  STOVES   AND  CBIUNETS. 


cover,  boil  tea-kettle  and  one  pot  uotlei-  the  fi-ont  cover,  bake 
bread  in  the  oven,  and  cook  a  tai-kcy  in  the  tin  roaster  in 
front.  The  authnr  has  numerous  friends  who,  after  trying 
the  best  ranges,  have  dismissed  ihem  for  this  stove,  and  in 
two  or  three  years  cleared  the  whole  expense  by  the  saving 
of  fuel. 

The  remarkable  durability  of  this  stove  is  aootber  eeo- 
noinio  feature;  for,  in  addition  to  its  fine  castings  and  nice- 
fitting  workmanship,  all  the  parts  liable  to  burn  oat  are  so 
protected  by  linings,  and  other  contrivances  easily  renewed, 
that  the  stove  itself  may  pass  from  one  genei-ation  to  an- 
other, as  do  ordinary  chimneys.  The  wi-iter  has  visited  in 
families  where  this  stove  bad  been  in  constant  use  for  eight- 
eeo  and  twenty  years,  and  was  still  as  good  as  new.  In 
most  other  families  the  stoves  are  broken,  burned  out,  or 


188      TH8  HOUSEKBSP^  AND  HSAU'HKEBPER. 

thrown  aside  for  improved  patterns  every  four,  five,  or  six 
years,  and  sometimes,  to  the  knowledge  of  the  writer,  still 
oflener. 

Another  excellent  point  is  that,  although  it  is  so  compli- 
x;ated  in  its  various  contrivances  as  to  demand  intelligent 
management  in  order  to  secure  all  its  advantages,  it  also  can 
be  used  satisfactorily  even  when  the  mistress  and  maid  are 
equally  careless  and  ignorant  of  its  distinctive  merits.  To 
such  it  offers  all  the  advantages  of  ordinary  good  stoves,  and 
is  extensively  used  by  those  who  take  no  pains  to  understand 
and  apply  its  peculiar  advantages. 

But  the  writer  has  managed  the  stove  herself  in  all  the 
•details  of  cooking,  and  is  confident  that  any  housekeeper  of 
common  sense  who  is  instructed  properly,  and  who  also  aims 
to  have  her  kitchen  affairs  managed  with  strict  economy, 
can  easily  train  any  seiTant  who  is  willing  to  learn,  so  as  to 
gain  the  full  advantages  offered.  And  even  without  any  in- 
structions at  all  except  the  printed  directions  sent  with  the 
stove,  an  intelligent  woman  can,  by  due  attention,  though 
not  without,  both  manage  it,  and  teach  her  children  and 
servants  to  do  likewise.  And  whenever  this  stove  has  fail- 
ed to  give  the  highest  satisfaction,  it  has  been  either  be- 
cause the  draught  of  the  chimney  was  poor,  or  because  the 
housekeeper  was  not  apprised  of  its  peculiarities,  or  be- 
cause she  did  not  give  sufficient  attention  to  the  matter,  or 
was  not  able  or  willing  to  superintend  and  direct  its  man- 
agement. 

The  consequence  has  been  that,  in  families  where  this 
stove  has  been  undei*stood  and  managed  aright,  it  has  saved 
nearly  one-half  of  the  fuel  that  would  be  used  in  ordinary 
«toves,  constructed  with  the  usual  disregard  of  scientific  and 
economic  laws.  And  it  is  because  we  know  this  particular 
stove  to  be  convenient,  reliable,  and  economically  efficient 
beyond  ordinary  experience,  in  the  important  housekeeping 
element  of  kitchen  labor,  that  we  devote  to  it  so  much  space 
and  pains  to  describe  its  advantageous  points.'*' 

*  A  letter 'to  the  author,  inclosing  twenty-five  cents  for  expense  of  time  and 
correspondence,  will  secare  a  circular  ynth  farther  accoont  and  dirtetian^  for 
using  this  stove.    Direct — Care  of  Dr.  6.  H.  Taylor,  New  York  city. 


ON  STOVES  AND.  CHIMNEYS.  180 


CHIMNEYS. 

One  of  the  most  serious  evils  in  domestic  life  is  often 
found  in  chimneys  that  will  not  properly  draw  the  smoke  of 
a  fire  or  stove.  Although  chimneys  have  been  building  for 
a  thousand  years,  the  artisans  of  the  present  day  seem 
strangely  ignorant  of  the  true  method  of  constinicting  them 
so  as  always  to  carry  smoke  upward  instead  of  downwai^. 
It  is  rarely  the  x^ase  that  a  large  house  is  built  in  which  there 
is  not  some  flue  or  chimney  which  "  will  not  draw."  One 
of  the  reasons  why  the  stove  described  as  excelling  all  others 
is  sometimes  cast  aside  for  a  poorer  one  is,  that  it  requires  a 
properly  constructed  chimney,  and  multitudes  of  women  do 
not  know  how  to  secure  it.  The  writer  in  early  life  shed 
many  a  bitter  tear,  drawn  forth  by  smoke  from  an  ill-con- 
structed kitchen-chimney,  and  thousands  all  over  the  land 
can  report  the  same  experience. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  causes  and  the  remedies  for 
this  evil : 

The  most  common  cause  of  poor  chimney  draughts  is  too 
large  an  opening  for  the  fire-place,  either  too  wide  or  too 
liigh  in  front,  or  having  too  large  a  throat  for  the  smoke. 
In  a  lower  story,  the  fire-place  should  not  be  larger  than 
thirty  inches  wide,  twenty-five  inches  high,  and  fifteen  deep. 
In  the  story  above,  it  should  be  eighteen  inches  square  and 
fifteen  inches  deep. 

Another  cause  is  too  short  a  flue,  and  the  remedy  is  to 
lengthen  it.  As  a  general  rule,  the  longer  the  flue  the 
stronger  the  draught;  but  in  calculating  the  length  of  a 
flue,  reference  must  be  had  to  side-flues,  if  any  open  into  it. 
Where  this  is  the  case,  the  length  of  the  main  flue  is  to  be 
/considered  as  extending  only  from  the  bottom  to  the  point 
where  the  upper  .flue  joins  it,  and  where  the  lower  flue  will 
receive  air  from  the  upper  side  flue.  If  a  smoky  flue  can  not 
be  inci*eased  in  length,  either  by  closing  an  upper  flue  or 
lengthening  the  chimney,  the  fire-place  must  be  contracted 
so  that  all  the  air  near  the  fire  will  be  heated  and  thus 
pressed  upward. 

If  a  flue  has  more  than  one  opening,  in  some  cases  it. is 


100  *THB  HOUSEKEEPBS  AND  HXALTHKJBSPER. 

impossible  to  secure  a  good  draught  Sometimes  it  will 
work  well,  and  sometimes  it  will  not.  The  only  safe  rule  is 
to  have  a  separate  flue  to  each  fire. 

Another  cause  .of  poor  draughts  is  too  tight  a  room,  so 
that  the  cold  air  from  without  can  not  enter  to  press  the 
warm  air  up  the  chimney.  The  remedy' is  to  admit  a  small 
current  of  air  from  without. 

Another  cause  is  two  chimneys  in  one  room,  or  in  rooms 
opening  together,  in  which  the  draught  in  one 'is  much 
stronger  than  in  the  other.  In  this  case  the  stronger 
draught  will  draw  away  from  the  weaker.  The  remedy  is, 
for  each  room  to  have  a  proper  supply  of  outside  air;  or,  in 
a  single  room^  to  stop  one  of  the  chimneys. 

Another  cause  is  the  too  close  vicinity  of  a  hill  or  build- 
ings higher  than  the  top  of  the  chimney,  and  the  remedy  for 
this  is  to  raise  the  chimney. 

Another  cause  is  the  descent  into  unused  fire-places  of 
smoke  from  other  chimneys  near.  The  remedy  is  to  close 
the  throat  of  the  unused  chimney. 

Another  cause  is  a  door  opening  toward  the  fire-place  on 
the  same  side  of  the  room,  so  that  its  draught  passes  along 
the  wall  and  makes  a  ctirrent  that  draws  out  the  smoke. 
The  remedy  is  to  change  the  hanging  of  £he  door,  so  as  to 
open  another  way. 

Another  cause  is  strong  winds.  The  remedy  is  a  turn-cap 
on  top  of  the  chimney. 

Another  cause  is  the  roughness  of  the  inside  of  a  chim- 
ney, or  projections  which  impede  the  passage  of  the  smoke. 
Every  chimney  should  be  built  of  equal  dimensions  from 
bottom  to  top,  with  no  projections  into  it,  with  as  few  bends 
as  possible,  and  with  the  surface  of  the  inside  as  smooth  as 
possible. 

Another  cause  of  poor  draughts  is  openings  into  the  chim- 
ney of  chambers  for -stove-pipes.  The  remedy  is  to  close 
them,  or  insert  stove*pipes  that  are  in  use. 

Another  cause  is  the  falling  out  of  brick  in  some  part  of 
the  chimney  so  that  outer  air  is  admitted.  The  remedy  is 
to  close  the  opening. 

The  draught  of  a  stove  may  be  affected  by  most  of  these 


OK  STOVES   AND  CHIMNEYS.  191 

causes.  It  also  demands  that  the  fire-place  have  a  tight  fire- 
board,  or  that  the  throat  be  carefully  filled.  For  neglect- 
ing this,  many  a  good  stove  has  been  thrown  aside  and  a 
poor  one  taken  in  its  place. 

If  all  young  women  had  committed  to  memory  these 
causes  of  evil  and  their  remedies,  many  a  badly-built  chim- 
ney might  have  been  cured,  and  many  smoke-drawn  tears, 
sighs,  ill  tempers,  and  irritating  words  avoided. 

But  there  are  dangers  in  this  direction  which  demand 
special  attention.  Where  one  flue  has  two  stoves  or  fire- 
places, in  rooms  one  above  the  other,  in  certain  states  of  the 
atmosphere,  the  lower  room  being  the  warmer,  the  colder 
air  and  carbonic  acid  io  the  room  above  will  pass  down  into 
the  lower  room  through  the  opening  for  the  stove  or  the 
fire-place. 

This  occurred  not  long  since  in  a  boarding-school,  when 
the  gas  in  a  room  above  flowed  into  a  lower  one,  and  suffo- 
cated several  to  death.  This  room  had  no  mode  of  ventilar 
tion,  and  several  persons  slept  in  it,  and  were  thus  stifled. 
Professor  Brewer  states  a  similar  case  in  the  family  of  a 
relative.  An  anthracite  stove  was  used  in  the  upper  room ; 
and  on  one  still,  close  night,  the  gas  from  this  stove  descend- 
ed through  the  flue  and  the  opening  into  a  room  below,  and 
stifled  the  sleepers. 


THE   H0DB2&SXFBB  AMD   HKAI.THXXEPB& 


CHAPTER  VL 

BCONOiaC  UODKS  OF  BBADTtFTINO   A  BOKB. 

Thb  educating  influence  of  works  of  natural  beagty  and  of 
art  can  hardly  be  overestimated.  Surrounded  by  anch  ang- 
gestions  of  the  beautiful,  and  such  reminders  of  history  and 
art,  childfen  are  constantly  trained  to  correctness  of  taste 
and  refinement  of  thought,  and  stimulated  —  sometimes  to 
efforts  at  artistic  imitation,  always  to'the  eager  and  intelli- 
gent inquiry  about  the  scenes,  the  places,  the  incidents  repre- 
sented. 

Just  here,  perhaps,  we  are  met  by  some  who  impatiently 
exclaim, "  But  I  have  no  money  to  spare  for  any  thiug  of  this 
sort.  I  am  condemned  to  an  absolute  bareness,  and  beauty-in 
my  case  is  not  to  be  thought  of."  It  is  for  such  that  some 
economic  modes  of  beautifying  a  home  are  here  suggested. 
p^«,  The  cornices  to 

your  windows  can 
be  simply  strips  of 
wood  covered  with 
I  paper  to  match  the 
bordering  of  your 
room,  and  the  lam- 
brequins, made  of 
chintz  like  the 
lounge,  could  be 
trimmed  with 
fringe  or  gimp  of 
the  same  color. 
The  patterns  of 
these  can  be  varied 
according  to  fancy, 
hut  simple  desigus 
are  usually  the  pret- 
tiest    A  tassel,  at 


^^^^^^H                          ECONOMIC  MODES  OF   BEAUTIFVING   A   HOME.              193                      ^| 

IT 

4 

wimm 

i#^j 

r 

^ 

||k"'         ^H 

1 

Mil 

ii 

M- 

nJ 

' 

A 

^,^-' 

m!  ] 

i 

^      "l:a»,.Sv» 

3Rt  ^  -,  --_^  A 

^Wp 

ir^B^B^^bli                ■ 

1'^ 

H^ff  :::.■:>  :.;,■  =3 

[^Ry^BJj^:'     M 

M 

1 

194  THE  I10US£K££P£B  ANB  USALTUKEBPBR. 

the  lowest  point  greatly  improves  the  appearance  of  the 
entire  curtain. 

The  curtains  can  be  made  of  plain  white  muslin,  or  some 
of  the  many  styles  that  come  for  this  purpose.  If  plain  mus- 
lin is  used,  you  can  ornament  them  with  hems  an  inch  in 
width,  in  which  insert  a  strip  of  gingham  or  chambray  of  the 
same  color  as  your  chintz.  .  This  will  wash  with  the*  curtains 
without  losing  its  color,  or,  should  it  fade,  it  <ran  easily  be 
drawn  out  and  replaced. 

.The. influence  of  white-musliu  curtains  in  giving  an  air  of 
grace  and  elegance  to  a  room  is  astonishing.  White  cur- 
tains really  create  a  room  out  of  nothing.  No  matter  how 
coarse  the  muslin,  so  it  be  white  and  hang  in  graceful  folds, 
thera  is  a  charm  in  it  that  supplies  the  want  of  multitudes 
of  other  things. 

The  following  is  a  sketch  of  a  most  attractive  parlor,  the 
owners  being  persons  of  taste  and  culture,  and  visited  by  the 
most  wealthy  and  refined  class,  who  are  always  delighted 
with  its  light,  comfort,  and  beauty.  In  this  parlor  is  the 
window.  Fig.  40,  page  192,  with  its  lambrequins,  and  the  win- 
dow covered  with  flowers  and  greens,  Fig.  41. 

A  straw  matting,  used  six  yeai*s,  and  still  good. 

Cheap  drab-colored  rugs,  bordered  with  green,  in  front  of 
the  fire  and  under  the  centre-table.  The  cheap  wall-paper 
is  drab  and  green,  with  heavy  green  border  for  cornice.  On 
one  side  is  this  window  adorned  with  creepers,  brackets  with 
flower-pots,  and  hanging-baskets,  as  at  Fig.  41,  page  193. 
The  other  (see  Fig.  40)  window  has  lambrequins  made  of  an 
old  green  worsted  dress  lined  with  coarse  unbleached  cotton 
trimmed  with  green  gimp,  and  the  tassels  home-made  from 
remnants  of  the  old  green  dress.  Cheap  white  lace  with 
broad  hems,  in  which  strips  of  the  green  dress  are  drawn, 
complete  the  window  outfit. 

On  one  side  of  the. fire-place  is  a  lounge  made  as  illus- 
trated by  Fig.  16,  page  139;  and  ottomans  around  are  also 
made  as  illustrated  in  the  same  chapter.  AH  are  covered 
with  drab  cotton  cloth,  and  trimmed  with  green. 

Six  chairs  bought  unpainted,  and  by  the  mistress  of  the 
house  painted  drab  and  green.     Chronics  ami  engravings  in 


£CON03kaC  MODES  OF  BEAUTIFYING  A  HOME. 


195 


Fig.  43. 


Fig.  42.  cheap  and  taBteful  frames,  as  illus- 

trated in  Figs.  42  and  43,  adorn  the 
walls,  and  German  ivy  and  hanging- 
baskets  of  greens  and  flowers  are  in 
all  tasteful  arrangements.    In  cool 

ryr  weather  a  bright  fire  of  dried  wal- 
nut invites  to  a  social  gathering 
around  its  hospitable  gleams^  the 
fire-place  being  an  open  Franklin 
stove,  so  placed  that  its  hearth  is  on 
a  level  with  the  floor,  that  there  may 
be  no  cold  feet  Such  a  stove  unites 
economy  with  beauty  and  comfort  A  prime  charm  of  this 
room  is  its  southern  exposure,  secu- 
ring-sunshine  all  the  year,  never  shut 
out  with  shades  or  blinds  except  in 
the  hottest  days. 

This  lovely  parlor  was  furnished 
with  pictures  and  every  other  article 
for  less  than  a  hundred  dollars,  and 
was  more  beautiful  and  enjoyable 
than  many  of  those  which  have  de- 
manded thousands  for  their  outfit 

As  a  means  of  educating  the  inge- 
nuity and  the  taste,  yon  can  make  for 

yourselves  pretty  rustic  frames  in  various  modes.  Take  a 
very  thin  board,  of  the  right  size  and.shUpe,  for  the  founda- 
tion or  '^  mat ;''  saw  out  the  inner  oval  or  rectangular  form 
to  suit  the  picture.  Nail  on  the  edge  a  rustic  frame  made 
of  branches  of  hard,  seasoned  wood,  and  garnish  the  comers 
with  some  pretty  device ;  such,  for  instance,  as  a  cluster  of 
acorns ;  or,  in  place  of  the  branches  of  trees,  fasten  on  with 
glue  small  pine  cones,  with  larger  ones  for  comer  ornaments. 
Or  use  the  mosses  of  the  wood  or  ocean  shells  for  this  pur- 
pose. It  may  be  more  convenient  to  get  the  mat  or  inner 
molding  from  a  framer,  or  have  it  made  by  your  carpenter, 
with  a  groove  behind  to  hold  a  glass. 

If  you  have  in  the  house  any  broken-down  arm-chair  re- 
posing in  the  oblivioli  of  the  garret,  draw  it  out-^rive  a 


THE  nOUSBKSKPES  AND  HBAU'BEBKPBB. 

"r-**  nail  here  and  there  to  hold 

it  firm — BtDfi*  and  p«d,  and 
■titch.the  padding  throngh 
with  a  long  npfaolBterer'B 
needle,  and  cover  it  with 
the  chintz,  lilie  your  other 
fumitare  and  70U  create  an 
easy -chair. 
An  ox -mnzzle,  flattened 
,  on  one  eide  and  nailed  to  a 
board,  as  in  Fig.  44,  filled 
with  spongy  mosa  and  feath* 
cry  femB,  makes  a  lovely 
ornament;  while  suBpend- 
cd  baskets  holding  en  pa 
or  bowla  of  soil  filled  with 

drooping  pljnU  is  another  cheap  ornament.    A  Ward  case, 

which  any  ingenious  boy  can  make  of  pine  and  common 

glaas,  is  shown  on  the  table  at  Fig.  41,  page  193.     It  is  a 

great  source  of  enjoyment  to  children  nnd  invalldB.     The 

box  at  the  bottom  is  to  ma.  is. 

be  lined  with  zinc,  and 

have  a  hole  for  drainage 

covered  with  an  inverted 

saucer,  and  there  must  be 

a  dooi'  at  one  end.    The 

soil  must  consist  of  bvo- 

ken  charcoal  at  bottom, 

two    inches     deep,    and 

over  this  some  soil  made 

of  one-fourth  fine  sand, 

one-fourth  meadow  soil 

from  under  fresh  turf,  and 

two  -  fourths    wood   soil 

from  under  forest-trees. 

In  this  plant  all  sorts  of 

ferns  and  swamp  grasses,  _ 

and  make  a  border  of  '— = 

money-plant  or  periwin 


THB  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HBALTHKSSPEB.       197 

kle.  A. bit  of.lookiDg-glass,  some  shells,  and  bits  of  rock 
with  a  A'ariety  of  mosses,  flowerd^  and  ferns  that  grow  in  the 
shade,  can  lend  variety  and  beauty.  When  watering,  set  a 
pail  under  for  it  to  drip  into.  It  needs  only  to  keep  this 
moss  always  damp,  and  to  sprinkle  these  ferns  occasionally 
with  a  whisk-broom,  to  have  a  most  lovely  ornament  for 
your  room  or  halL 

An  old  tin  pan,  painted  green,  with  holes  in  the  bottom, 
thus  supplied  with  soil  and  ferns,  makes  a  pretty  parlor  or- 
nament. Or,  take  a  salt-box  or  fig-box,  and  fill  them  ivith 
soil  and  plants,  and  use  for  hanging-basketa  The  Ward 
case  needs  watering  only  once  in  two  weeks,  and  most  of 
these  plants  grow  without  sun  in  north  windows.  The  fuch- 
sias flourish  also  in  the  shade,  as  do  striped  spider-wort,  smi- 
lax,  saxifrage,  and  samentosa  or  Wandering  Jew.  German 
ivy  growing  in  suspended  bottles  of  water  is  a  cheap  orna- 
ment, and  slips  of  nasturtions  and  verbenas  will  grow  in  north 
windows  all  winter.  A  sponge  filled  with  flax-seed,  hung  by 
a  cord  and  kept  wet,  is  another  cheap  ornament,  as  is  also 
a  carrot  scooped  out,  after  the  small  part  is  cut  out  and 
hung  up,  till  its  tall,  graceful  shoots  will  mingle  with  flowers 
placed  in  it.  A  sweet-potato  in  a  bowl  of  water,  or  sus- 
pended by  a  knitting-needle  run  through  it  and  laid  in  a 
bowl  lialf  full  of  water,  makes  a  verdant  ornament.  The 
flowers  for  a  Ward -case,  in  a  room  without  sun,  are,  ground 
pine,  prince's  pine,  trailing  arbutus,  partridge  -  berry,  eye- 
brights,  mosses.  Fig.  45  is  a  stand  for  flowers,  made  of  roots 
scraped  and  varnished. 

Much  of  the  beauty  of  furniture  is  secured  by  the  tasteful 
combination  of  colors.  Thera  usually  should  be  only  two 
colors  in  addition  to  the  white  of  the  ceiling.  Blue  unites 
well  with  buff  or  com  color,  or  a  yellow  brown.  Green 
combines  well  with  drab,  or  white,  or  yellow.  Scarlet  or 
crimson  unites  well  with  gray  or  drab. 

Those  who  cultivate  parlor  plants  need  these  cautions: 
Too  much  water  and  want  of  fresh  air  make  plants  grow 
pale  and  spindling;  so  give  fresh  air  every  day.  Wash 
leaves  when  covered  with  dust.  Change  soil  once  a  year,' 
or  water  with  liquid  manure.     Pluck  faded  flowers,  as  much 


108  ECONOMIC  MODES  OF  BEAUTIFYING  A  HOME. 


% 


Strength  of  a  plant  goes  to  make  seed.  Pick  off  fading 
green  leaves.  If  flowera  are  wanted,  use  small  pots.  Do 
not  shut  out  the  sun,  which  human  beings  need  as  much  as 
flowers.  Use  oil-cloth  similar  to  the  carpet,  where  flowers 
and  sun  abound.  ,  Shot  out  flies  with  wire  netting  in  open 
windows,  and  also  doors  of  the  same.  It  costs  much  less 
than  ill  health  and  mournfully  darkened  rooms. 


CASE   OF  HEALTH.  199 


CHAPTER  Vn. 

CARE     OF    HEALTH. 

There  is  do  point  where  a  woman  is  more  liable  to  suffer 
from  a  want  of  knowledge  and  experience  than  in  reference 
to  the  health  of  a  family  committed  to  her  care.  Many  a 
young  lady  who  never  had  any  charge  of  the  sick;  who 
never  took  any  care  of  an  infant;  who  never  obtained  infor- 
mation on  these  subjects  from  books,  or  from  the  experience 
of  others ;  in  shoi*t,  with  little  or  no  preparation,  has  found 
herself  the  principal  attendant  in  dangerous  sickness,  tho 
chief  nurse  of  a  feeble  infant,  and  the  responsible  guardian 
of  the  health  of  a  whole  family. 

The  care,  the  fear,  the  perplexity  of  a  woman  suddenly 
called  to  these  unwonted  duties,  none  can  realize  till  they 
themselves  feel  it,  or  till  they  see  some  young  and  anxious 
novice  first  attempting  to  meet  such  responsibilities.  To  a 
woman  of  age  and  experience  these  duties  often  involve  a 
measure  of  trial  and  difficulty  at  times  deemed  almost  in- 
supportable ;  how  hard,  then,  must  they  press  on  the  heart 
of  the  young  and  inexperienced ! 

Tbere  is  no  really  efficacious  mode  of  preparing  a  woman 
to  take  a  i*ational  care  of  the  health  of  a  family,  except  by 
communicating  that  knowledge  in  regard  to  the  construc- 
tion of  the  body  and  the  laws  of  health  which  is  the  basis 
of  the  medical  profession.  Not  that  a  woman  should  under- 
take the  minute  and  extensive  investigation  requisite  for  a 
physician;  but  she  should  gain  a  general  knowledge  of  first 
pnnciples,  as  a  guide  to  her  judgment  in  emergencies  when  « 
she  can  rely  on  no  other  aid. 

With  this  end  in  view,  in  the  preceding  chapters  some 
portions  of  the  organs  and  functions  of  the  human  body  have 
been  presented,  and  othera  will  now  follow  in  connection 
with  the  practical  duties  which  result  from  them. 

On  the  general  subject  of  health,  one  recent  discovery  of 


200*     THE  nOUSBKXEPEB  AND  HEIXTHKEEPBR. 

scicnco  may  here  be  introduced  as  having  an  important  re- 
lation to  every  organ  and  function  of  the  body,  and  as  being 
one  to  which  frequent  i*efer6nce  will  be  made ;  and  that  is, 
the  nature  and  operation  of  cM-life. 

By  the  aid  of  the  microscope,  we  can  examine  the  minute 
construction  of  plants  and  animals,  in  which  we  discover 
contrivances  and  operations,  if  not  so  sublime,  yet  more  won- 
derful and  interesting,  than  the  vast  systems  of  worlds  re- 
vealed by  the  telescope. 

By  this  instrument  it  is  now  seen  that  the  first  formation, 
as  well  as  future  changes  and  actions,  of  all  plants  and  ani- 
mals are  accomplished  by  means  of  small  cells  or  bags  con- 
taining various  kinds  of  liquids.  These  cells  are  so  minute 
that,  of  the  smallest,  soitie  hundreds  would  not  cover  the  dot 
of  a  printed  i  on  this  page.  They  are  of  diverse  shapes  and 
contents,  and  perform  various  different  operations. 
The  first  formation  of  every  animal  is  accomplished  by  the 

agency  of  cells,  and  may  be  illustrated 
"'  .*  by  the  egg  of  any  bird  or  fowl.     Tlie 

^  exterior  consists  of  a  hard  shell  for  pro- 

tection, and  this  is  lined  with  a  tousrh 
l#  skin,  to  which  is  fastened  the  yelk, 
(which  means  the  yellow,)  by  fibrous 
strings,  as  seen  at  o,  a,  in  the  diagram. 
In  the  yelk  floats  the  germ-cell,^,  which 
is  the  point  where  the  formation  of  the  future  animal  com- 
mences. The  yelk,  being  lighter  than  the  white,  rises  up- 
ward, and  the  germ  being  still  lighter,  rises  in  the  yelk. 
This  is  to  bring  both  nearer  to  the  vitalizing  warmth  of  the 
brooding  mother. 

New  cells  are  gradually  formed  from  the  nourishing  yelk 
around  the  germ,  each  being  at  first  roundish  in  shape,  and 
having  a  spot  near  the  centre,  called  the  nucleus.  The  rea- 
son why  cells  increase  must  remain  a  mystery  until  we  can 
penetrate  the  secrets  of  vital  force — probably  forever.  But 
the  mode  in  which  they  multiply  is  as  follows :  The  first 
change  noticed  in  a  cell,  when  warmed  into  vital  activity,  is 
the  appearance  of  a  second  nucleus  within  it,  while  the  cell 
gradually  becomes  oval  in  form,  and  then  is  drawn  inward 


.^» 


CABB   OF  HBAUB.  -201 

fit  the  middle,  like  an  faonr-glsss,  till  the  two  sides  meet. 
The  two  portions  then  divide,  and  two  cella  appear,  each  con- 
taining its  own  germioal  naclens.  These  both  divide  again 
in  the  same  manner,  proceeding  in  the  ratio  of  2,  4,  6, 16, 
and  so  on,  nntil  moat  of  the  yelk  becomes  amass  of  cells. 

The  central  point  of  this  mass,  where  the  animal  itself 
commences  to  appear,  shows,  first,  a  ronnd-shaped  figure, 
which  soon  assumes  form  Ulce  a  pear,  and  then  like  a  violin. 
Gradually  the  bnsy  little  cells  arrange  themselVes  to  bnild 
up  heart,  lungs,  brain,  stomach,  and  limbs,  for  which  the  yelk 
and  white  furnish  nntrimenL  There  is  a  small  bag  of  air  fas- 
tened to  one  end  inside  of  the  shell ;  and  when  the  animal  is 
complete,  this  air  is  taken  into  its  lungs,  life  begins,  and  out 
walks  little  chick,  all  its  powers  prepared,  and  ready  to  run, 
eat,  and  enjoy  existence.  Then,  as  soon  as  the  animal  uses 
its  brain  to  think  and  feel,  and  its  muscles  to  move,  the  cells 
which  have  been  made  up  into  these  parts  begin  to  decay, 
while  new  cells  are  formed  from  the  blood  to  take  their 
place;  Thus  with  life  commences  the  constant  process  of 
decay  and  renewal  all  over  the  body. 

The  liquid  portion  of  the  blood  consists  of  material  formed 
from  food,  air,  and  water.  >  From  this  material  the  cells  of 
the  blood  fire  formed :  fii-3t,  the 
white  cells,  which  are  incom- 
plete in  formation;  and  then 
the  red  cells,  which  are  com- 
pleted by  the  addition  of  the 
oxygen  received  from  air  in  the  ^ 
lungs.  Fig.  47  represents  part  > 
of  a  magnified  blood-vessel,  i 
o,  in  which  the  round  celts  a; 
the  white,  and  the  oblong  the 
red  cells,  floating  in  the  blood.  ^ 
Surrounding  the  blood-vessels 
are  the  cells  forming  the  adja- 
cent membrane,  b  b,  each  having 
a  nucleus  in  its  centre. 

Cells  Lave  different  powers  of  seleotins  "and  secreting  di- 
verse materials  from  the  blood.    Tlins,  some  secrete  bile  to 


202  THE  HOUSEKEBPEB  AND  HSALTHKEEPEB. 

carry  to  the  liver,  others  secrete  saliva  for  the  mouth,  others 
take  up  the  tears,  and  still  others  take  material  for  the  brain, 
muscles,  and  all  other  organs.  Cells  also  have  a  converting 
power— -of  taking  one  kind  of  matter  from  the  blood,  and 
changing  it  to  another  kind.  They  are  minute  chemical 
labotatories  all  over  the  body,  changing  materials  of  one 
kind  to  another  form  in  which  they,  can  be  made  useful. 

Both  animal  and  vegetable  substances  are  formed  of  cells. 
But  the  vegetable  cells  take  .up  and  use  unorganized,  or  sim- 
ple, natural  matter ;  whereas  the  animal  cell  only  takes  sub- 
stances already  organized  into  vegetable  or  animal  life,  and 
then  changes  one  compound  into  another  of  different  propor- 
tions and  nature. 

These  curious  facts  in  regard  to  cell-life  have  important 
relations  to  the  general  subject  of  the  care  of  health,  and 
also  to  the  cure  of  disease,  as  will  be  noticed  in  following 
chapters. 

THE   NEBVOUS  SYSTEM. 

Thei*e  is  another  portion  of  the  body  which  is  so  inti- 
mately connected  with  every  other,  that  it  is  placed  in  this 
chapter  as  also  having  reference  to  every  department  in  the 
general  subject  of  the  care  of  health.  , 

The  body  has  no  power  to  move  itself,  1)ut  is  a  collection 
of  instruments  to  be  used  by  the  mind  in  securing  various 
kinds  of  knowledge  and  enjoyment.  The  organs  through 
which  the  mind  thus  operates  are  the  brain  and  nerves. 
The  opposite  drawing  (Fig.  4^}  represents  them. 

The  brain  lies  in  the  skull,  and  is  divided  into  the  large 
or  upper  brain,-marked  1,  and  the  small  or  lower  brain, 
marked  2.  From  the  brain  runs  the  spinal  marrow  through 
the  spine  or  backbone.  From  each  side  of  the  spine  the 
large  nerves  run  out  into  innumerable  smaller  branches  to 
every  portion  of  the  body.  The  drawing  shows  only  some 
of  the  larger  branches.  Those  marked  3  run  to  the  neck 
and  organs  of  the  chest ;  those  marked  4  go  to  the  arms ; 
those  below  the  arms,  marked  3,  go  to  the  trunk ;  those 
marked  5  go  to  the  legs;  and  the  lowest  of  all  go  to  the 
pelvic  organs. 


204  THE   H0U8SKSEPEB  A2^D  HEALTBKEEPSB. 

ed  with  those  portions  of  the  brain  used  when  we  think,  feel, 
and  choose.  By  this  arrangement  the  mind  knoios  what  is 
wanted  in  all  parts  of  the  body  by  means  of  the  nerves  of 
sensation,  and  then  it  acts  by  means  of  the  nerves  of  motion. 

For  example,  when  we  feel  the  cold  air  on  the  skin,  the 
nerves  of  sensation  report  to  the  brain,  and  thus  to  the  mind, 
that  the  body  is  growing  cold.  The  mind  thus  knows  .that 
more  clothing  is  needed,  and  wills  to  have  the  eyes  look  for 
it,  and  the  hands  and  feet  move  to  get  it.  '  This  is  done  by 
the  nerves  of  sight  and  of  motion. 

Next  are  the  nerves  of  involuntary  motion^  which  move 
all  those  parts  of  the  head,  face,  and  body  that  are  used  in 
breathing,  and  in  other  operations  connected  with  it.  By 
these  we  continue  to  breathe  when  asleeg,  and  whether  we 
will  to  do  so  or  not.  There  are  also  some  of  the  nerves  of 
■voluntary  motion  that  are  mixed  with  these,  which  enable 
the  mind  to  stop  respiration,  or  to  regulate  it  to  a  certain 
extent.  But  the  mind  has  ho  power  to  stop  it  for  any  great 
length  of  time. 

There  is  another  large  and  important  system  of  nerves 
called  the  sympathetic  or  ganglionic  system.  It  consists  of 
small  masses  of  gray  and  white  nervous  matter,  that  seem 
to  be  small  brains  with  nei*ves  running  from  them.  These 
are  called  ganglia^  and  are  an*anged  on  each  side  of  the 
spine,  while  small  nerves  from  the  spinal  marrow  run  into 
them,  thus  uniting  the  sympathetic  system  with  the  nerves 
of  the  spine.  These  ganglia  are  also  distributed  around  in 
various  parts  of  the  interior  of  the  body,  especially  in  the 
intestines,  and  all  the  different  ganglia  are  connected  with 
each  other  by  nerves,  thus  making  one  system.  It  is  the 
ganglionic  system  that  carries  on  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  the  action  of  the  capillaries,  lymphatics,  arteries,  and 
veins,  together  with  the  work  of  secretion,  absorption,  and 
most  of  the  internal  working  of  the  body,  which  goes  for- 
ward without  any  knowledge  or  control  of  the  mind. 

Every  portion  of  the  body  has  nerves  of  sensation  coming 
from  the  spine,  and  also  branches  of  the  sympathetic  or  gan- 
glionic system.  The  object  of  this  is  to  form  a  sympathetic 
comninnication  between  the  several  parts  of  the  body,  and 


CABS  OF  HEALTH.  205 

X 

also  to  enable  the  mind  to  receive,  through  the  brain,  some 
general  knowledge  of  the  state  of  the  whole  system.  It  is 
owing  to  this  that,  when  one  portion  of  the  body  is  affected, 
other  portions  sympathize.  For  example,  if  one  part  of  the 
body  is  diseased,  the  stomach  may  so  sympathize  as  to  lose 
all  appetite  until  the  disease  is  removed. 

All  the  operations  of  the  nervous  system  are  performed 
by  the  influence  of  the  nervous  fluid,  which  is  generated  in 
the  gray  portions  of  the  brain  and  ganglia.  Whenever  a 
nerve  is  cut  off  from  its  connection  with  these  nervous  cen- 
tres, its  power  is  gone,  and  the  part  to  which  it  ministered 
becomes  lifeless  and  incapable  of  motion. 

The  brain  and  nerves  can  be  overworked,  and  can  also 
suffer  for  want  of  exercise,  just  as  the  muscles  do.  It  is 
necessary  for  the  perfect  health  of  the  brain  and  nerves  that 
the  several  portions  be  exercised  sufficiently,  and  that  no 
part  be  exhausted  by  overaction.  For  example,  the  nerves 
of  sensation  may  be  very  much  exercised,  and  the  nerves 
of  motion  have  but  little  exercise.  In  this  case,  one  will  be 
weakened  by  excess  of  work,  and  the  other  by  the  want  of  it. 

It  is  found  by  experience  that  the  proper  exercise  of  the 
nerves  of  motion  tends  to  reduce  any  extreme  susceptibility 
of  the  nerves  of  sensation.  On  the  contrary,  the  neglect  of 
such  exercise  tends  to  produce  an  excessive  sensibility  in 
the  nerves  of  sensation. 

Whenever  that  part  of  the  brain  which  is  employed  in 
thinking,  feeling,  and  willing,  is  greatly  exercised  by  hard 
study,  or  by  excessive  care  or  emotion,  the  blood  tends  to 
the  brain  to  supply  it  with  increased  nourishment,  just  as  it 
flows  to  the  muscles  when  they  are  exercised.  Over-exer- 
cise of  this  portion  of  the  brain  causes  engorgement  of  the 
blood- vessels.  This  is  sometimes  indicated  by  pain,  or  by  a 
sense  of  fullness  in  the  head ;  but  oilener  the  result  is  a  de- 
bilitating drain  on  the  nervous  system,  which  depends  for 
its  supply  on  the  healthful  state  of  the  brain. 

The  bi-ain  has,  as  it  were,  a  fountain  of  supply  for  the 
nervous  fluid,  which  flows  to  all  the  nerves,  and  stimulates 
them  to  action.  Some  brains  have  a  larger,  and  some  a 
smaller  fountain ;  so  that  a  degree  of  ment.il  activity  that 


206      TBS  HOUSXKSBPBB  AND  HEALTHKSSPSB. 

would  entirely  exhaust  one,  would  make  only  a  small  and 
healthful  drain  upon  another. 

The  excessive  use  of  certain  portions  of  the  brain  tends  to 
withdraw  the  nervous  energy  from  other  portions ;  so  that 
when  one  part  is  debilitated  by  excess,  another  fails  by 
neglect.  For  example,  a  person  may  so  exhaust  the  brain- 
power in  the  excessive  use  of  the  nerves  of  motion  by  bard 
work,  as  to  leave  little  for  any  other  faculty.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  nerves  of  feeling  and  thinking  may  be  so  used  as 
to  withdraw  the  nervous  fluid  from  the  nerves  of  motion, 
and  thus  debilitate  the  muscles. 

Some  animal  propensities  may  be  indulged  to  such  excess 
as  to  produce  a  constant  tendency  of  the  blood  to  a  certain 
portion  of  the  brain  and  to  the  organs  connected  with  it, 
and  thus  cause  a  constant  and  excessive  excitement,  which 
finally  becomes  a  disease.  Sometimes  a  paralysis  of  this 
portion  of  the  brain  results  from  such  an  entire  exhaustion 
of  the  nervous  fountain  and  of  the  overworked  nerves. 

Thus,  also,  the  thinking  portion  of  the  brain  may  be  so 
overworked  as  to  drain  the  nervous  fluid  from  other  por- 
tions, which  become  debilitated  by  the  loss.  And  in  this 
way,  also,  the  overworked  portion  may  be  diseased  or  para- 
lyzed by  the  excess. 

Sometimes  the  intellect  and  feelings  may  be  confined  to 
one  subject  so  exclusively  as  to  cause  mental  derangement 
on  that  subject  when  sane  in  all  other  respects.  This  is 
called  a  monomania. 

The  necessity  for  the  egrual  development  of  all  portions  of 
the  brain  by  an  appropriate  exercise  of  allthe  faculties  of 
mind  and  body,  and  the  influence  of  this  upon  happiness,  is 
the  most  important  portion  of  this  subject,  and  will  be  more 
directly  exhibited  in  another  chapter. 

The  chief  causes  of  debility  of  nerves,  neuralgia,  sciatica, 
and  other  diseases  of  the  nerves,  are  exhaustion  of  the  nerv- 
ous fountain  by  excess  of  study,  or  of  labor,  or  of  mental  ex- 
citement of  any  kind.  All  excess  of  feeling,  or  of  intellect- 
ual or  physical -labor,  decreases  the  nerve  centres  or  fount- 
ains of  nervous  supply.  Diseases  also,  and  often  medicines, 
have  the  same  efl*ect. 


GABB  OF  HEALTH.  207: 

When  tbe  nerves  are  thus  weakened  their  minnte  capilla- 
ries are  not  able  to  send  forward  the  blood,  and  thus  .be- 
come swollen  or  congested,  and  then  a  change  in  the  nerve 
substance  follows. 

The  remedy  jbr  this  is  to  withdraw  the  blood  from  the 
congested  nerves,  and  this  is  secured  by  exercising  the  mus- 
cles, thus  drawing  the  blood  from  nerves  to  muscles.  When 
the  patient  is  much  debilitated  this  exercise  should  be  done 
by  an  operator,  as  in  the  passive  exercises  of  the  movement 
cure;  for  in  such  cases  the  nerves,  and  brain  would  be  still 
more  weakened  by  voltmtary  exercise  of  the  patient.  This 
shows  the  great  mistake  often  made  by  attempts  to  remedy 
weak  nerves  and  brain  that  need  rest,  by  voluntary  exercise 
of  the  muscles.  It  also  shows  the  mischief  often  done  in 
schools  where  to  high  intellectual  excitement  is  added  vig- 
orous gymnastic  exercises. 

'  The  chief  benefit  of  the  movement  cure,  especially  as  con- 
ducted by  Dr.  George  Taylor,  of  New  York  City,  consists  in 
various  apparatus  invented  by  him,  by  which  various  parts 
of  the  body  can  be  exercised  while  the  brain  and  nerves  of 
the  patient  are  at  rest.  By  these  contrivances  the  congested 
blood  of  the  capillaries  is  drawn  from  the  diseased  part  and 
all  the  healthful  functions  restored,  while  the  patient  is  at 
rest  as  to  any  voluntary  exertion  of  brain  and  nerves.  When 
the  strength  will  permit,  voluntary  exercises  jrdapted  to  each 
case  are  combined  with  the  passive  movement  effected  by 
an  operator: 

The  following  ai*e  the  effects  of  the  mechanical  and  invol- 
untary movements  by  machinery  or  by  an  operator: 

They  produce  increased  motion  of  particles,  and  so  increase 
of  absorption  and  nutrition. . 

They  increase  contractile  power  in  the  capillaries,  and  thus 
remedy  congestion. 

They  direct  nervous  energy  to  defective  parts  and  remove 
obstructions. 

They  increase  respiration,  and  thus  increase  the  life-giving 
oxygen  and  animal  heat,  while  they  repress  excess  in  other 
congested  parts. 

They  increase  nutrition,  and  also  the  secretion  and  dis- 
charflre  of  morbid  matter  from  diseased  or  weakened  narts. 


?D9  TES   BC•^^££.££r£X  aSJ^  ■XJOXBKUniL 


cHArTER  vra. 

X01ISST3C     SXKKCXSK. 

Is  a  vork  vbicb  aimf  to  inflii«s>oe  vomeii  to  trun  tbe 
voDuz  to  LoDor  doatestic  Ijtbor  u»d  to  seek  bemltlifbl  exer- 
c:se  in  borne  p*urfa::f,  there  is  f]>ecxml  rcmMtt  for  expUoiog 
tt>e  cc^nstrQctioD  of  tbe  zDQSc]e»  aod  their  coonectioo  mith 
tbe  benes,  these  bein?  tbe  chief  orGr&os  of  motioD. 

Tbe  muscles  as  s^-eo  bj  tbe  naked  eje;  consist  of  Tery  fine 
£br>-s  or  Etrinsr^  bound  up  in  smooth,  silky  casings  of  thin 
rneajbrane.  But  each  of  these  Tisable  fibres  or  strings  the 
rtilcroscope  shows  to  be  mado  up  of  still  finer  strings,  nam- 
berins  from  five  to  eii:ht  hundrt-d  in  each  fibre.  And  each 
of  these  microscopic  fibres  is  a  series  or  chain  of  elastic  cells, 
Hbich  are  so  minute  that  ore  hundred  thousand  would 
^.•arcel J  cover  a  capital  O  on  this  page, 

Tlie  peculiar  property  of  the  cells  which  compose  the  mas- 
clt^  ife  their  elasticity,  no  other  cells  of  the  body  haying  this 
property.  At  Fig.  49  is  a  diagram  representing  a  micro- 
fecopic  muscular  fibre,  in  which  the  cells  are  relaxed,  as  in 

a 


Fir 

M. 

h 

(1 

m 

li) 

the  natural  state  of  rest  But  when  the  muscle  contracts, 
ea/;h  of  its.  numberless  cells  in  all  its  small  fibres  becomes 
widened,  niakin<r  each  fibre  of  the  muscle  shorter  and  thick* 
#,'r,  ad  at  Fj^.  50.  This  explains  the  cause  of  the  swelling 
out  of  muscles  when  they  act. 

Kvury  motion  in  every  part  of  the  body  has  a  special  mus- 
vM  to  pro^luce  it,  and  many  have  other  muscles  to  restore 
the  part  moved  to  its  natural  state.  The  muscles  that  move 
or  \f4*tu\  any  part  are  called  flexors^  and  those  that  restore 
this  natural  position  are  called  extensors. 


I>0VB87IC  EXSBCI8X. 


209 


ng.n. 


Fig.  51  represents  tlie  muscles  of  the  ai-m 
after  the  skio  and  flesh  are  removed.  They 
are  all  in  smooth,  silky  cases,  laid  over  each 
other,  and  separated  both  by  the  smooth 
membranes  that  encase  them  and  by  layers 
of  fat,  ao  as  to  move  easily  withont  iaterfeis 
ing  with  each  other.  They  are  fastened  to 
the  bones  by  strong  tendons  and  cartilages ; 
And  around  the  wrist,  in  the  drawing,  is  | 
'  shown  a  band  of  cartilage  to  confine  them  | 
in  place.  The  muscle  marked  8  is  the  Ex- 
tensor that  straightens  the  fingers  after  they 
have  been  closed  by  a  flexor  on  the  other  side 
of  the  arm.  In  like  manner,  each  motion  of 
the  arm  and  fingers  has  one  mnscle  to  pro- 
duce it  and  another  to  restore  to  tbe  natural 
position. 

The  muscles  are  dependent  on  the  bmin 
and  nerves  for  power  to  move.     It  has  been 
shown  that  the  gray  matter  of  the  brain  and 
spinal  marrow  furnishes  the  stimulating  pow- 
er that  moves  the  muBcles,  and  causes  sen- 
sations of  touch  on  tbe  skin,  and  the  other  1 
sensations  of  the  several  senses.    The  white 
part  of  the  brain  and  spinal  marrow  con- 
sists solely  of  conducting  tubes  to  transmit 
this  influence.    Each  of  the  minute  fibrils  of  the  muscles  has 
a  small  conducting  nerve  connecting  it  with  the  brain  or 
spinal  marrow,  and  in  this  respect  each  muscular  fibril  is 
separate  from  every  other. 

When,  therefore,  the  mind  wills  to  move  a  flexor  mnscle 
of  the  arm,  the  gray  matter  sends  out  the  stimulus  through 
the  nerves  to  the  cells  of  each  individual  fibre  of  that  mns- 
cle, and  they  contract.  When  this  is  done,  tbe  nerve  of 
sensation  reports  it  to  the  brain  and  mind.  If  the  mind  de- 
sires to  return  the  arm  to  its  former  position,  then  follows 
the  willing,  and  consequent  stimulus  sent  through  the  nerves 
to  the  corresponding  muscle ;  its  cells  contract,  and  the  limb 
is  restored. 


210  THE   BODSBEBXPBB  AND   HXU.THKSSPBB. 

When  the  motion  is  a  compound  one,  involving  the  action 
of  several  mnacles  at  the  same  time,  a  multitude  of  irapres- 
BiooB  are  sent  baclc  and  forth  to  and  from  the  brain  through' 
the  nerveB.'  But  the  person  acting  thus  is  nncoDSciona  of 
all  thiB  delicate  and  wonderful  mechanism.  He  wills  the 
movement,  and  instantly  the  requisite  ncrvona  power  is  Bent 
to  the  required  cells  and  fibres,  and  they  perform  the  mo- 
tions required.  Many  of  the  musclee  are  moved  by  the  sym- 
patbetio  system,  over  which  the  mind  has  but  little  control 
Among  the  muscles  and  nerves  so  intimately  connected 
run  the  minute  capillaries  of  the  blood,  which  fumish  nour- 
ishment to  all 

Fig.  S2  represents  an  artery  at  a,  which  brings  pnro 
blood   to   a  muscle   from  the   heart.     After   meandering 
Ftg.{i&  through  the  capillaries  at  c,  to  distribute 

oxygen  and  food  from  tbe  stomach,  the 
blood  enters. tbe  vein,  i,  loaded  with  car- 
bonic acid  and  water  taken  up  in  the  capil- 
laries, to  be  carried  to  the  lungs  or  skin,  and 
thrown  out  into  the  air. 
t  The  manner  in  which  the  exercise  of  the 
muscles  quickens  tbe  circulation  of  the 
blood  will  now  be  explained.  The  veins 
abound  in  every  part  of  every  muscle,  and 
tbe  large  veins  have  valvet  which  prevent 
the  blood  from  flowing  backward.  If  the 
wrist  is  grasped  tightly,  the  veins  of  the  band  are  imme- 
diately swollen.  This  is  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  blood 
is  prevented  from  flowing  toward  the  heart  by  this  press- 
ure, and  by  the  vein-valves  fi-om  returning  into  the  arteries ; 
while  the  arteries  themselven,  being  placed  deeper  down, 
are  not  so  compressed,  and  continue  to  send  the  blood  into 
the  hand,  and  thus  it  accumulates.  As  soon  as  this  press- 
ure is  removed,  the  blood  springs  onward  from  the  re- 
straint with  accelerated  motion.  This  Bame  process  takes 
place  when  aAy  of  the  muscles  are  exercised.  The  con- 
traction of  any  muBcle  presses  some  of  the  veins,  so  that  the  ■ 
blood  can  not  flow  the  natural  way,  while  tbe  valves  in 
the  veins  prevent  its  flowing  backward.     Meantime  the 


DOMESTIC  EZEBCISS.  211 

arteries  continiie  to  press  the  blood  along  until  the  veins 
become  swollen.  Then,  as  soon  as  the  muscle  ceases  its  con- 
traction, the  blood  flows  faster  from  the  previous  accumula- 
tion. 

If,  then,  we  use  a  number  of  muscles,  and  use  them  strong- 
ly and  quickly,  there  are  so  many  veins  aflected  in  this  way 
as  to  quicken  the  whole  circulation.  The  heart  receives 
blood  faster,  and  sends  it  to  the  lungs  faster.  Then  the 
lungs  work  quicker,  to  furnish  the  oxygen  required  by  the 
greater  amount  of  blood.  The  blood  returns  with  greater 
speed  to  the  heai-t,  and  the  heart  sends  it  out  with  quicker 
action  through  the  arteries  to  the  capillaries.  In  the  capil- 
laries, too,  the  decayed  matter  is  carried  off  faster,  and  then 
the  stomach  calls  for  more  food  to  furnish  new  and  pure 
blood.  '  Thus  it  is  that  exercise  gives  new  life  and  nourish- 
ment to  every  part  of  the  body. . 

It  is  the  universal  law  of  the  human  frame  that  exercise  is 
indispensable  to  the  health  of  the  several  parts.  Thus,  if  a 
blood-vessel  be  tied  up,  so  as  not  to  be  used,  it  shrinks,  and 
becomes  a  useless  string ;  if  a  muscle  be  condemned  to  in- 
action, it  shrinks  in  size  and  diminishes  in  power ;  and  thus 
it  is  also  with  the  bones.  Inactivity  produces  softness, 
debility,  and  unfitness  for  the  functions  they  are  designed  to 
perform. 

Now,  the  nerves,  like  all  other  parts  of  the  body,  gain  and 
lose  strength  according  as  they  are  exercised.  If  they  have 
too  much  or  too  little  exercise,  they  Jose  strength;  if  they 
are  exercised  to  a  proper  degree,  they  gain  strength.  When 
the  mind  is  continuously  excited,  by  business,  study,  or  the 
imagination,  the  nerves  of  emotion  and  sensation  ai*e  kept 
in  constant  action,  while  the  nerves  of  motion  are  unem- 
ployed. If  this  is  continued  for  a  long  time,  the  nerves  of 
sensation  lose  their  strength  from  overaction,  and  the  nerves 
of  motion  lose  their  power  from  inactivity.  In  consequence, 
there  is  a  morbid  excitability  of  the  nervous,  and  a  debility 
of  the  muscular  system,  which  make  all  exertion  irksome 
and  wearisome. 

The  only  mode  of  preserving  the  health  of  these  systems 
is  to  keep  up  in  them  an  equilibrium  of  action.    For  this 


212  THE  HOtJSBKSEPSB  AND  HSALTHKSBPSR. 

purpose,  occupations  must  be .  sought  whioh  exercise  the 
■muscles  aud  interest  the  mind;  and  thus  the  equal  action 
of  both  kinds  of  nerves  is  secured.  This  shows  why  exer- 
cise is  so  much  more  healthful  and  invigorating  when  the 
mind  is  interested  than  when  it  is  not.  As  an  illustration^ 
let  a  person  go  shopping  with  a  friend,  and  have  nothing  to 
do  but  look  on.  How  soon  do  the  continuous  walking  and 
standing  weary !  But,  suppose  one,  thus  wearied,  hears  of 
the  arrival  of  a  very  dear  friend :  she  can  instantly  walk  off 
a  mile  or  two  to  meet  her,  without  the  least  feeling  of  fvt- 
tigna  By  this  is  shown  the  importance  of 'furnishing,  for 
young  persons,  exercise  in  which  they  will  take  an  interest. 
Long  and  formal  walks,  merely  for  exercise,  though  they  do 
some  good,  in  securing  fresh  air  and  some  exercise  of  the 
muscles,  would  be  of  triple  benefit  if  changed  to  amusing 
sports,  or  to  the  cultivation  of  fruits  and  flowers,  in  which  it 
is  impossible  to  engage  without  acquiring  a  great  interest. 

It  shows,  also,  why  it  is  far  better  to  trust  to  useful  do- 
mestic iexercise  at  home  than  to  send  a  young  person  out  to 
walk  for  the  mere  purpose  of  exercise.  Young  girls  can 
seldom  be  made  to  realize  the  value  of  health,  and  the  need 
of  exercise  to  secure  it,  so  as  to  feel  much  interest  in  walk- 
ing abroad,  when  they  have  no  other  object.  But  if  they 
are  brought  up  to  minister  to  the  comfort  and  enjoyment  of 
themselves  and  others  by  performing  domestic  duties,  they 
will  constantly  be  interested  and  cheered  in  their  exercise 
by  the  feeling  of  usefulness  and  the  consciousness  of  having 
performed  their  duty. 

There  are  few  young  persons,  it  is  hoped,  who  are  brought 
up  with  such  miserable  habits  of  selfishness  and  indolence 
that  they  can  not  be  made  to  feel  happier  by  the  conscious- 
ness of  being  usefully  employed.  And  those  who  have 
never,  been  accustomed  to  think  or  care  for  any  one  but 
themselves,  and  who  seem  to  feel  little  pleasure  in  making 
themselves  useful,  by  wise  and  proper  influences  can  often 
be  gradually  awakened  to  the  new  pleasure  of  benevolent 
exertion  to  promote  the  comfort  and  enjoyment  of  others. 
And  the  more  this  sacred  and  elevating  kind  of  enjoyment 
is  tasted,  the  greater  is  the  relish  induced.    Other  enjoy- 


DOMESTIC  EXSBCI81S.  213 

ments  often  cloy;  but  the  heavenly  pleasare  secared  by 
virtuous  industry  and  benevolence,  while  it  satisfies  at  the 
time,  awakens  fresh  desires  for  the  continuance  of  so  enno- 
bling a  good. 

It  is  an  interesting  illustration  of  the  benevolence  and 
wisdom  of  our  Maker,  that  the  appropriate  duties  of  the 
family,  uniting  intellectual,  social,  and  moral  with  both  sed- 
entary and  active  pursuits,  are  exactly  fitted  to  employ 
every  faculty  in  a  healthful  proportion.  And  it  is  a  sad 
violation  of  the  laws  of  health  to  so  divide  family  employ- 
ments that  one  class  use  muscle  too  much,  and  the  other  the 
brain  to  excess. 


214  THE   dOUSBKKSPEB  AND  HXALTHKSJ&PXB. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

HEALTHFUL-  FOOD  AND  DRINKS. 

The  person  who  decides  what  shall  be  the  food  and  drink 
of  a  family,  and  the  modes  of  its  preparation,  is  the  one  who 
decides,  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  what  shall  be  the  health 
of  that  family.  It  is  the  opinion  of  most  medical  men  that 
intemperance  in  eating  is  one  of  the  most  fruitful  of  all 
causes  of  disease  and  death.  If  this  be  so,  the  woman  who 
wisely  adapts  the  food  and  cooking  of  her  family  to  the  laws 
of  health  removes  one  of  the  greatest  risks  which  threatens 
the  lives  of  those  under  her  care.  But,  unfortunately,  there 
is  no  other  duU^  that  has  been  involved  in  more  doubt  and 
perplexity.  Were  one  to  believe  all  that  is  said  and  written 
on  this  subject,  the  conclusion  probably  would  be,  that  there 
is  not  one  solitary  article  of  food  on  Ood's  earth  which  it  is 
healthful  to  eat.  Happily,  however,  there  are  general  prin- 
ciples on  this  subject  which,  if  underatood  and  applied,  will 
prove  a  safe  guide  to  any  woman  of  common  sense;  and  it 
is  the  object  of  the  present  chapter  to  set  forth  these  princi- 
ples. 

All  material  things  on  earth,  whether  solid,  liquid,  or  gas- 
eous, can  be  resolved  into  sixty-two  simple  substances,  only 
fourteen  of  which  are  in  the  human  body ;  and  these,  in  cer- 
tain proportions,  in  all  mankind. 

Thus,  in  a  man  weighing  154  lbs.  are  found  111  lbs.  oxy- 
gen gas  and  14  lbs.  hydrogen  gas,  which, united,  form  water; 
21  lbs.  carbon ;  3  lbs.  8  oz.  nitrogen  gas;  1  lb.  12  oz.  190  grs. 
phosphorus;  2  lbs.  calcium,  the  chief  ingredient  of  bones ;  ^ 
oz.>fluoriue;  2  oz.  219  grs.  sulphur;  2  oz.  47  grs.  chlorine;  2 
oz.  116  grs.  sodium;  100  grs.  iron;  290  grs.  potassium;  12' 
grs.  magnesium ;  and  2  grs.  silicon. 

These  simple  substances  are  constantly  passing  out  of  the.' 
body,  through  the  lungs,  skin,  and  other  excreting  organs. 

It  is  found  that  certain  of  these  simple  elements  are  used  ^ 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DRINKS.  21Sl 

for  one  part  of  the  body  and  others  for  other  parts,  and  this 
in  certain  regular  proportions.  Thus,  carbon  is  the  chief  el- 
ement of -fat,  and  also  sapplies  the  fuel  that  combines  with 
oxygen  in  the  capillaries  to  produce  animal  heat.  The  ni- 
trogen which  we  gain  from  our  food  and  the  air  is  the  chief 
element  of  muscle;  phosphorus  is  the  chief  element  of  brain 
and  nerves;  and  calcium  or  lime  is  the  hard  portion  of  the 
bones.  Iron  is  an  important  element  of  blood ;  and  silicon 
supplies  the  hardest  parts  of  the  teeth,  nails,  and  hair. 

Water,  which  is  composed  of  the  two  gases  oxygen  and 
hydrogen,  is  the  largest  portion  of  the  body,  forming  its  flu- 
ids; there  is  four  times  as  much  of  carbon  as  there  is  of 
nitrogen  in  the  body ;  while  there  is  only  two  per  cent,  as 
much  phosphorus  as  carbon.  A  man  weighing  one  hundred 
and  fifty-four  pounds,  who  leads  an  active  life,  takes  into  his 
stomach  daily  from  two  to  three  pounds  of  solid  food,  and 
from  five  to  six  pounds  of  liquid.  At  the  same  time  he 
takes  into  his  lungs,  daily,  four  or  five  thousand  gallons  of 
air.  This  amounts  to  three  thousand  pounds  of  nutriment- 
'received  through  stomach  and  lungs,  and  then  expelled  from 
the  body,  iii  one  year;  or  about  twenty  times  the  man's  own 
weight  • 

It  is  found  that  the  simple  elements  will  not  nourish  the 
body  in' their  natural  state,  but  only  when  organized,  either 
as  vegetable  or  animal  food ;  and,  to  the  dismay  of  the  Gr&- 
hamite  or  vegetarian  school,  it  is  now  established  by  chem- 
ists that  animal  and  vegetable  food  contain  the  same  ele- 
ments, and  in  nearly  the  same  proportions. 

Thus,  in  animal  food,  carbon  predominates  in  fats,  while  in 
vegetable  food  it  shows  itself  in  sugar,  starch,  and  vegeta*^ 
ble  oils.  Nitrogen  is  found  rn  animal  food  in  the  albumen, 
fibrtne,  and  caseine ;  while  in  vegetables  it  is  in  gluten,  al- 
bumen, and  caseine. 

It  is  also  a  curious  fact  that,  in  all  articles  of  food,  the  ele- 
ments that  nourish  diverse  parts  of  the  body  are  divided 
into  separable  portions,  and  also  that  the  proportions  corre- 
spond in  a  great  degree  to  the  wants  of  the  body.  For  ex- 
ample, a  kei*nel  of  wheat  contains  all  the  articles  demanded 
for  every  part  of  the  body.     Fig.  63  represents,  upon  an  en- 


216  THB   H0U8EKBEPEB  AlHO  HBALTHKEEPSB. 

larged  Bcale,  the  position  and  proportions  of  the  chief  ele- 
fik.53.  nients  required.  The  white  central  part  is  the 
largest  in  quantity,,  and  is  chiefly  carbon  in  the 
form  of  starch,  which  supplies  fat  and  fuel  for  the 
capillaries.  The  shaded  outer  portion  is  chiefly 
nitrogen,  which  nourishes  the  muscles;  and  the 
dark  spot  at  the  bottom  is  principally  phosphorus, 
which  nourishes  the  brain  and  nerves.  And  these 
elements  are  in  due  proportion  to  the  demands  of 
the  body.  A  portion  of  the  outer  covering  of  a  wheat-kernel 
holds  lime,  silica,  and  iron,  which  are  needed  by  the  body,  and 
which  are  found  in  no  other  part  of  the  grain.  The  woody 
fibre  is  ndt  digested,  but  serves,  by  its  bulk  and  stimulating 
action,  to  facilitate  digestion.  It  is,  therefore,  evident  that 
bread  made  of  unbolted  flour  is  more  healthful  than  that 
made  of  8upei*flne  flour.  For  the  process  of  bolting  removes 
all  the  woody  fibre;  the  lime  needed  for  the  bones;  the  silica 
for  hair,  nails,  and  teeth ;  the  iron  for  the  blood ;.  and  most 
of  the  nitrogen  and  phosphorus  needed  for  muscles,  brain,  and 
nerves. 

Experiments  on  animals  prove  that  fine  flour  alone,  which 
is  chiefly,  carbon,  will  not  sustain  life  more  than  a  month, 
while  unbolted  flour  furnishes  all  that  is  needed  for  every 
part  of  the  body.  There  are  cases  where  persons  can  not 
use  such  coarse  bread,  on  account  of  its  irritating  action  on 
inflamed  coats  of  the  stomach.  For  such,  a  kind  of  wheaten 
grit  is  provided,  containing  all  the  kernel  of  the  wheat,  ex- 
cept the  outside  woody  fibre. 

From  these  statements  it  may  be  seen  that  one  of  the 
chief  mistakes  in  providing  food  for  families  has  been  in 
changing  the  proportions  of  the  elements  nature  has  fitted 
for  our  food.  Thus,  fine  wheat  is  deprived  by  bolting  of 
some  of  the  most  important  of  its  nourishing  eleinents,  leav- 
ing carbon  chiefly,  which,  after  supplying  fuel  for  the  capil- 
laries, must,  if  in  excess,  be  sent  out  of  the  body;  thus  need- 
lessly taxing  all  the  excreting  organs.  So  milk,  which  con- 
tains, all  the  elements  needed  by  the  body,  has  the  cream 
taken  out  and  used  for  butter,  which  again  is  chiefly  carbon. 
Then,  sugar  and  molasses,  cakes  and  candies,  are  chiefly  car- 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD   AND  DBINKS.  217 

bon^and  sapply  bnt  very  little  of  other  noarishing  elements, 
while,  to  make  them  safe,  mnch  exercise  in  cold  and  pare  air 
is  necessary.  And  yet  it  is  the  children  of  the  rich,  housed 
in  chambers  and  school-rooms  most  of  their  time,- who  are 
fed  with  these  dangerous  dainties,  thus  weakening  their  con- 
stitutions, and  inducing  fevers,  colds,  and  many  other  diseases. 

The  proper  digestion  of  food  depends  on  the  wants  of  the 
body,  and  on  its  power  of  appropriating  the  aliment  sup- 
plied. The  best  of  food  can  not  be  properly  digested  when 
it  is  not  needed.  All  that  the  system  requires  will  be  used, 
and  the  rest  will  be  thrown  out  by  the  several  excreting  or- 
gans, which  thus  are  frequently  overtaxed,  and  vital  forces 
are  wasted.  Even  food  of  poor  quality  may  digest  well  if 
the  demands  of  the  system  are  urgent.  The  way  to  increase 
digestive  power  is  to  increase  the  demand  for  food  by  pure 
air  and  exercise  of  the  muscles,  quickening  the  blood,  and 
arousing  the  whole  system  to  a  more  rapid  and  vigorous 
rate  of  life. 

We  are  now  ready  to  consider  intelligently  the  following 
general  principles  in  regard  to  the  proper  selection  of  food: 

Vegetable  and  animal  food  are  equally  healthful  if  appor- 
tioned to  the  given  circumstances. 

In  cold  weather,  carbonaceous  food,  such  as  butter,  fats, 
sugar,  molasses,  etc.,  can  be  used  more  safely  than  in  warm 
weather.  And  they  can  be  used  more  safely  by  those  who 
exercise  in  the  open  air  than  by  those  of  confined  and  seden- 
tary habits. 

Students  who  need  food  with  little  carbon,  And  women 
who  live  in  the  house,  should  always -seek  coarse  bread,  fruits, 
and  lean  meats,  and  avoid  butter,  oils,  sugar,  and  molasses, 
and  articles  containing  them. 

Many  students  and  women  using  little  exercise  in  the  open 
air  grow  thin  and  weak,  because  the  vital  powers  are  ex- 
hausted in  throwing  off  excess  of  food,  especially  of  the  car- 
bonaceous. The  liver  is  especially  taxed  in  such  cases,  be- 
ing unable  to  remove  all  the  excess  of  carbonaceous  matter 
from  the  blood,  and  thas  ''biliousness"  ensues,  particularly 
on  the  approach  of  warm  weather,  when  the  air  brings  less 

oxygen  than  in  cold. 

in 


218  ^  THB  HOCTSEKSBPKB  AISTD  HXALTHKEXPSS. 

It  is  found,  by  ezperimeDt,  tbat  the  supply  of  gastnc  juice, 
furnished  from  the  blood  by  the  arteries  of  the  stomach,  is 
proportioned,  not  to  the  amount  of  food  put  into  the  stom- 
ach, but  to  the  wants  of  the  body ;  so  that  it  icr  possible  to 
put  much  more  in^  the  stomach  than  can  be  digested.  To 
guide  and  regulate  in  thb  matter,  the  sensation  called  Atm^ 
ger  is  provided.  In  a  healthy  state  of  the  body,  as  soon  as 
the  blood  has  lost  its  nutritive  supplies,  the  craving  of  hun- 
ger is  felt,  and  then,  if  the  food  is  suitable,  and  is  taken  in 
the  proper  manner,  this  sensation  ceases  as  soon  as  the  stom- 
ach has  received  enough  to  supply  the  wants  of  the  system* 
But  our  benevolent  Creator,  in  this  as  in  bur  other  duties,  hits 
connected  enjojrment  with  the  operation  needful  to  sustain 
our  bodies.  In  addition  to  the  allaying  of  hunger,  the  gratifi- 
cation of  the  palate  is  secured  by  the  immense  variety  of  food^ 
some  articles  of  which  are  far  more  agreeable  than  others.   . 

This  arrangement  of  P^vidence,  designed  for  our  happi- 
ness, has  become,  either  through  ignorance  or  want  of  self- 
control,  the  chief  cause  of  the  many  diseases  and  sufferings 
which  afflict  those  classes  who  have  the  means  of  seeking  fk 
variety  to  gratify  the  palate.  If  mankind  had  only  one  ar- 
ticle of  food,  and  only  water  to  drink,  though  they  would 
have  less  enjoyment  in  eating,  they  would  never  be  tempted 
to  put  any  more  into  the  stomach  than  the  calls  of  hunger 
require.  But  the  customs  of  society,  which  present  an  inces* 
sant  change,  and  a  great  variety  of  food,  with  those  Tarious 
condiments  which  stimulate  appetite,  lead  almost  every  per- 
son very  frequently  to  eat  merely  to  gratify  the  palate,  after 
the  stomach  has  been  abundantly  supplied,  so  that  hunger 
has  ceased. 

When  too  great  a  supply  of  food  is  put  into  the  stomach, 
the  gastric  juice  dissolves  only  that  portion  which  the  wants 
of  the  system  demand.  Most  of  the  remainder  is  ejected  in 
an  unprepared  state ;  the  absorbents  take  portions  of  it  into 
the  system ;  and  M  the  various  functions  of  the  body,  which 
depend  on  the  ministries  of  the  blood,  are  thus  gradually 
and  imperceptibly  injured.  Very  oflen,  intemperance  in 
eating  produces  immediate  results,  such  as  colic,  headaches, 
pains  of  indigestion,  and  vertigo. 


BBALTHFOL  FOOD  AKD  D&INK8.  219 

But  the  more  general  result  is  a  gradaal  undemiining  of 
all  parts  of  the  baman  frame ;.  thas  imperceptibly  shorten' 
ing  life,  by  so  weakeniog  the  constitution  that  it  is  ready  to 
yield,  at  every  point,  to  any  uncommon  risk  or  expoenre. 
Thousands  and  thousands  are  passing  ont  of  the  world,  from 
diseases  occasioned  by  exposures  which  a  healthy  constita- 
tioQ  could  meet  without  any  danger.  It  is  owing  to  these 
coDBideratione  that  it  becomes  the  duty  of  every  woman  who 
has  the  responsibility  of  providing  food  for  a  family  to  avoid 
a  variety  of  tempting  dishes.  It  is  a  much  safer  guide  to 
have  only  one  kind  of  healthy  food  for  each  meal,  rather  than 
the  too  abundant  variety  which,  ia  oflen  met  at  the  tables  of 
almost  all  classes  in  this  country.  When  there  is  to  be  any 
variety  of  dishes,  they  onght  not  to  be  successive,  but  so  ar- 
ranged as  to  give  the  opportunity  of  selection.  How  often 
ia  it  the  case  that  persons,  by  the  appearance  of  a  favorite 
article,  are  tempted  to  eat  merely  to  gratify  the  palate,  when 
the  stomach  is  already  adequately  supplied.  All  such  intem- 
perance wears  on  the  constitution,  and  shortens  life.  It  not 
unfi^uently  happens  that  ezcesa  in  eating  produces  a  mor^ 
bid  appetite,  whicb  must  constantly  be  denied. 

Bat  the  organization  of  the  digestive  organs  demands  not 
only  that  food  should  be  taken  in  proper  qoantities,  bnt  that 
it  be  taken  at  proper  times. 

Pig.  S4  shows  one  important  feature  of  the  digestive  or> 
gans  relating  to  this 
point.  The  part  mark- 
ed L  &f  shows  the  muE- 
cles  of  the  inner  coat 
of  the  stomach,  which  t 
run  in  one  direction, 
and  C  M  shows  the 
mascles  of  the  outer 
coat,  running  in  an- 
other direction. 

As  soon  as  the  food 
enters    the    stomach, 
the  muscles  are  excited  by  the  nerves, and  the perittaltic  mo- 
tion commences :  this  is  a  powerful  and  constant  exercise  of 


220      THE  H0U8EKESPSB  AND  HBALTHKBSPEB. 

the  mascles  of  the  stomach,  which  contiDaes. until  the  process 
of  digestion  is  complete.  Daring  this  time  the  blood  is  with^ 
drawn  from  other  parts  of  the  system,  to  supply  the  demands 
of  the  stomach,  which  is  laboring  bard  with  all  its  muscles. 
When  this  motion  ceases,  and  the  digested  food  has  gradually 
passed  out,  nature  requires  that  the  stomach  should  have  a 
period  of  repose.  And  if  another  meal  be  eaten .  immediately 
after  one  is  digested,  the  stomach  is  set  to  work  again  before 
it  has  had  time  to  rest,  and  before  a  sufficient  supply  of  gas- 
tric juice  is  provided. 

The  general  rule,  then,  is,  that  three  hours  be  given  to 
the  stomach  for  labor,  and  two  for  rest;  and  in  obedience 
to  this,  five  houra,  at  least,  ought  to  elapse,  between  every 
two  regular  meals.  In  cases  where  exercise  produces  a  flow 
of  pei*s{)imtion,  moreibod  is  needed  to  supply  the  loss;  and 
strong  laboring  men  may  safely  eat  as  oflen  as  they  feel  the 
want  of  food.  So,  young  and  healthy  children,  who  gambol 
and  exercise  much,  and  whose  bodies  grow  fast,  may  have  a 
more  frequent  supply  of  food.  But,  as  a  general  rule,  meals 
should  be  Ave  houra  apart,  and  eating  between  meals  avoid- 
ed. There  is  nothing  more  unsafe  and  wearing  to  the  con- 
stitution than  a  habit  of  eating  at  any  time  merely  togi*atify 
the  palate.  When  a  tempting  article  is  presented,  every  per- 
son should  exercise  sufficient  self-denial  to  wait  till  the  prop- 
er time  for  eating  arrives.  Children,  as  well  as  grown  per- 
sons, are  oflen  injured  by  eating  between  their  regular  meals, 
thus  weakening  the  stomach  by  not  affording  it  any  time  for 
rest. 

As  a  general  rule,  the  quantity  of  food  actually  needed  by 
the  body  depends  on  the  amount  of  muscular  exercise  taken. 
A  laboring  man  in  the  open  fields  probably  throws  off  from 
his  skin  and  lungs  a  much  larger  amount  than  a  person  of 
sedentary  pursuits.  In  consequence  of  this,  he  demands  a 
greater  amount  of  food  and  drink. 

Those  persons  who  keep  their  bodies  in  a  state  ^f  health 
by  sufficient  exercise  can  always^be  guided  by  the  calls  of 
hunger.  They  can  eat  when  they  feel  hungry,  and  stop 
when  hunger  ceases ;  and  thus  they  will  calculate  exactly 
right     But  the  difficulty  Is,  that  a  large  part  of  the  com- 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DBINKS.  221 

ihnnity,  especially  women,  ai'e  so  inactive  in  their  habits 
that  they  seldom  feel  i.he  calls  of  hunger.  They  habitually 
eat,  merely  to' gratify  the  palate.  This  produces  such  a 
state  of  the  system  that  they  lose  the  guide  which  Nature 
has  provided.  They  are  not  called  to  eat  by  hunger,  nor 
admonished,  by  its  cessation,  when  to  stop.  In  consequence 
of  this,  such  persons  eat  what  pleases  the  palate,  till  they 
feci  no  more  inclination  for  the  article.  It  is  probable  that 
three-fourths  of  the  women  in  the  wealthier  circles  sit  down 
to  each  meal  without  any  feeling  of  hunger,  and  eat  mei*e- 
ly  on  account  of  the  gratification  thus  afforded  them.  Such 
persons  find  their  appetite  to  depend  almost  solely  upon  the 
kind  of  food  on  the  table.  This  is  not  the  case  with  those 
who  take  the  exercise,  which  Nature  demands.  They  ap- 
proach their  meals  in  such  a  state  that  almost  any  kind  of 
food  is  acceptable. 

Persons  who  have  a  strong  constitution,  and  take  much 
exercise,  may  eat  almost  any  thing  with  apparent  impunity ; 
but  young  children  who  are  forming  their  constitutions,  and 
persons  who  are  delicate  and  who  take  but  little  exercise, 
are  very  dependent  for  health  on  a  proper  selection  of  food. 

It  is  found  that  there  are  some  kinds  of  food  which  afford 
nutriment  to  the  blood,  and  do  not  produce  any  other  effect 
on  the  system.  There  are  other  kinds  which  are  not  only 
nourishing,  but  stimulating^  so  that  they  quicken  the  func- 
tions of  the  organs  on  which  they  operate.  The  condiments 
used  in  cookery,  such  as  pepper,  mustard,  and  spices,  are  of 
this  nature.  There  are  certain  states  of  the  system  when 
these  stimulants  may  be  beneficial ;  such  cases  can  only  be 
pointed  out  by  medical  men. 

Persons  in  perfect  health,  and  especially  young  children, 
never  receive  any  benefit  from  such  kind  of  food ;  and  just 
in  proportion  as  condiments  operate  to  quicken  thie  labora 
of  the  internal  organs,  they  tend  to  wear  down  their  powers. 
A  person  who  thus  keeps  the  body  working  under  an  un- 
natural excitement  lives  faster  than  Nature  designed,  and 
the  constitution  is  worn  out  just  so  much  the  sooner.  A 
woman,  therefore,  should  provide  dishes  for  her  family  which 
ar6  free  from  these  stimulating  condiments. 


222      THE  H0U8EKESPEB  AND  HEALTHKEEPEB. 

In  regard  to  articles  which  are  the  most  easily  digested, 
only  general  rules  can  be  given.  Tehdermeats  are  digested 
more  readily  than  those  which  are  tough,  or  than  many  kinds 
of  vegetable  food.  The  farinaceous  articles,  such  as  rice, 
flour,  com,  potatoes,  and  the  like,  are  the  most  nutritious, 
and  mo/st  easily  digested.  The  popular  notion,  that  meat  is 
more  nourishing  than  bread,  is  a  great  mistake.  Good  bread 
contains  more  nourishment  than  butcher's  "meat.  The  meat 
is  more  stimukUingy  Bud  for  this  reason  is  more  readily  di- 
gested. 

A  perfectly  healthy  stomach  can  digest  almost  any  health- 
ful food ;  but  when  the  digestive  powers  are  weak,  every 
stomach  has  its  peculiarities,  and  what  is  good  for  one  is 
hurtful  to  another.  In  such  xBases,  experiment  alone  can 
decide  which  are  the  most  digestible  articles  of  food.  A 
pei*son  whose  food  troubles  him  must  deduct  one  article  af- 
ter another,  till  he  learns  by  experience  which  is  the  best 
for  digestion.  Much  evil  has  been  done  by  assuming  that 
the  powers  of  one  stomach  are  to  be  made  the  loile  in  regu- 
lating every  other. 

The  most  nnhealth&l  kinds  of  food  are  those  which  are 
made  so  by  bad  cooking ;  such  as  sour  and  heavy  bread, 
cakes,  pie-crust,  and  other  dishes  consisting  of  fat  mixed  and 
cooked  with  flour.  Rancid  butter  and  high-seasoned  food 
are  equally  unwholesome.  The  fewer  mixtures  Jthere  are  in 
cooking,  the  more  healthful  is  the  food  likely  to  be. 

There  is  one  caution  as  to  the  mode  of  eating  which  seems 
peculiarly  needful  to  Americans.  It  is  indispensable  to  good 
digestion  that  food  be  well  chewed  and  taken  slowly.  It 
needs  to  be  thoroughly  chewed  and  mixed  with  saliva,  in 
order  to  prepare  it  for  the  action  of  the  gastric  juice,  which, 
by  the  peristaltic  motion,  will  be  thus  brought  into  contact 
with  every  one  of  the  minute^portions.  It  has  been  found 
that  a  solid  lump  of  food  requires  much  more  time  and  la- 
bor of  the  stomach  for  digestion  than  divided  substances. 

It  has  also  been  found  that  as  each  bolns,  or  mouthful, 
enters  the  stomach,  the  latter  closes,  until  the  portion  re- 
ceived has  had  some  time  to  move  around  and  combine  with 
the  gastric  juice,  and  that  the  orifice  of  the  stomach  resists 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DBINE&  223 

the  entrance  of  any  more  till  this  is  accomplished.  Bat,  if 
the  eater  persists  in  swallowing  fast,  the  stomach  yields;  the 
food  is  then  poared  in  more  rapidly  than  the  organ  can  per- 
form its  duty  of  preparative  digestion,  and  evil  resnlts  are 
sooner  or  later  developed.  This  exhibits  the  folly  of  those 
hasty  meals  so  common  to  travelers  and  to  men  of  business, 
and  shows  why  children  shonld  be  taught  to  eat  slowly. 

After  taking  a  full  meal,  it  is  very  important  to  health 
that  no  great  bodily  or  mental  exertion  be  made  till  the  la- 
bor of  the  stomach  is  over.  Intense  mental  effort  draws  the 
blood  to  the  head,  and  muscular  exertions  draw  it  to  the 
muscles;  and  in  consequence  of  this,  the  stomach  loses  the 
supply  which  it  requires  when  performing  its  office.  When 
the  blood  with  its  stimulating  effects  is  thus  withdrawn 
from  the  stomach,  the  adequate  supply  of  gastric  juice  is 
not  afforded,  and  indigestion  is  the  result.  The  heaviness 
which  follows  a  full  meal  is  the  indication  whicb  Nature 
gives  of  the  need  of  quiet.  When  the  meal  is  moderate,  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  gastric  juice  is  exuded  in  an  hour,  or 
an  hour  and  a  half;  after  which,  labor  of  body  and  mind 
may  safely  be  resumed. 

Extremes  of  heat  or  cold  are  injurious  to  the  process  of 
digestion.  Taking  hot  food  or  drink  habitually,  tends  to 
debilitate  all  the  organs  thus  needlessly  excited.  In  using 
cold  substances,  it  is  found  that  a  certain  degree  of  warmth 
in  the  stomach  is  indispensable  to  their  digestion ;  so  that 
when  the  gastric  juice  is  cooled  below  this  temperature  it 
ceases  to  act.  Indulging  in  large  quantities  of  cold  drinks, 
or  eating  ice-creams,  after  a  meal,  tends  to  reduce  the  tem- 
perature of  the  stomach,  and  thus  to  stop  digestion.  This 
shows  the  folly  of  those  refreshments,  in  convivial  meetings, 
where  the  guests  are  tempted  to  load  the  stomach  with  a 
variety  such  as  would  require  the  stomach  of  a  stout  farmer 
to  digest;  and  then  to  wind  up  with  ice-creams,  thus  lessen- 
ing whatever  ability  might  otherwise  have  existed  to  digest 
the  heavy  load.  The  fittest  temperature  for  drinks,  if  taken 
when  the  food  is  in  the  digesting  process,  is  blood-heat. 
Cool  drinks,  and  even  ice,  can  be  safely  taken  at  other  times, 
if  not  in  excessive  quantity.     When  the  thirst  is  excessive. 


224      THS  HOUSKEBEPKB  AND  HXALTHKSEPXB. 

or  the  body  weakened  by  faUgne,  or  when  in  a  state  of  per- 
spiration, large  quantities  of  cold  drinks  are  injurions. 

Flaids  taken  into  the  stomach  are  not  subject  to  the  slow 
process  of  digestion,  but  arei  immediately  absorbed  and  car- 
ried into  the  blood.  This  is  the  reason  why  liquid  nourish- 
ment, more  speedily  than  solid  food,  restores  from  exhaust- 
ion. The  minute  vessels  of  the  stomach  absorb  its  fluids, 
which  are  carried  into  the  blood,  just  as  the  minute  extremi- 
ties of  the  arteries  open  upon  the  inner  surface  of  the  stom- 
ach, and  there  exude  the  gastric  juice  from  the  blood. 

Highly-concentrated  food,  having  much  nourishment  in  a 
small  bulk,  is  not  favorable  to  digestion,  because  it  can  not 
be  properly  acted  on  by  th^  muscular  contractions  of  the 
stomach,  and  is  not  so  minutely  divided  as  to  enable  the 
gastric  juice  to  act  properly.  This  is  the  reason  why  a  cer- 
tain bulk  of  food  is  needful  to  good  digestion ;  and  why 
those  people  who  live  on  whale-oiP  and  other  highly  nourish- 
ing food,  in  l;old  climates,  mix  vegetables  and  even  sawdust 
with  it,  to  make  it  more  acceptable  and  digestible.  So  in 
.civilized  lands,  fruits  aud  vegetables  are  mixed  with  more 
highly  concentrated  nourishment.  For  this  reason,  also, 
soups,  jellies,  and  arrow-root  should  have  bread  or  crackers 
mixed  with  them.  This  affords  another  reason  why  coarse 
bread,  of  unbolted  wheat,  so  often  proves  beneficial  Where, 
from  inactive  habits  or  other  causes,  the  bowels  become  con- 
stipated and  sluggish,  this  kind  of  food  proves  the  appro- 
priate remedy. 

One  fact  on  this  subject  is  worthy  of  notice.  In  England, 
under  the  administration  of  William  Pitt,  for  two  years  or 
more  there  was  such  a  scarcity  of  wheat  that,  to  make  it 
hold  out  longer,  Parliament  passed  a  law  that  the  army 
should  have  all  their  bread  made  of  unbolted  flour.  The 
result  was,  that  the  health  of  the  soldiere  improved  so  much 
as  to  be  a  subject  of  surprise  to  themselves,  the  officers,  and 
the  physicians.  These  last  came  out  publicly  and  declared 
that  the  soldiers  never  before  were  so  robust  and  healthy ; 
and  that  disease  had  nearly  disappeared  from  the  army. 
The  civic  physicians  joined  and  pronounced  it  the  healthiest 
bread;  and  for  a  time  schools, families,  and  public  institu- 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DBINK&  225 

tioDs  used  it  almost  exclusively.  Even  tbe  nobility,  con- 
vinced by  these  facts,  adopted  it  for  their  common  diet,  and 
the  fashion  continued  a  long  time  after  the  scarcity  ceased, 
until  more  luxui-ious  habits  resumed  their  sway. 

We  thus  see  why  children  should  not  have  cakes  and  can- 
dies allowed  them  between  meals.  Besides  being  largely 
carbonaceous,  these  are  highly  concentrated  nourishments, 
and  should  be  eaten  with  more  bulky  and  less  nourishing 
substances.  The  most  indigestible  of  all  kinds  of  food  are 
fatty  and  oily  substances,  if  heated.  It  is  on  this  account 
that  pie-crust  and  articles  boiled  and  fried  in  fat  or  butter 
are  deemed  not  so  healthful  as  other  food. 

The  following,  then,  may  be  put  down  as  the  causes  of  a 
debilitated  constitution  .from  the  misuse  of  food:  Eating 
too  mt/cA,  eating  too  often^  eating  too  fasty  eating  food  and 
condiments  that  are  too  stimulating ^  eating  food  that  is  too 
warm  or  too  cold^  eating  food  that  is  highly  concentraiedy 
without  a  proper  admixture  of  less  nourishing  matter,  and 
eating  hot  food  that  is  difficult  o/ digestion. 

It  is  a  point  fully  established  by  experience  that  the  full 
development  of  the  human  body  and  the  vigorous  exercise 
of  all  its  functions  can  be  secured  without  the  use  of  simu- 
lating diinks.  It  is,  therefore,  perfectly  safe  to  bring  up 
children  never  to  use  them,  no  hazard  being  incurred  by 
such  a  course. 

It  is  also  found  by  experience  that  there  are  two  evils  in- 
curred by  the  use  of  stimulating  drinks.  The  first  is,  their 
positive  effect  on  the  human  system.  Their  peculiarity  con- 
sists in  so  exciting  the  nervous  system  that  all  the  functions 
of  the  body  are  accelerated,  and  the  fluids  are  caused  to 
move  quicker  than  at  their  natural  speed.  This  increased 
motion  of  the  animal  fluids  always  produces  an  agreeable 
effect  on  the  mind.  The  intellect  is  invigorated,  the  imagi- 
nation is  excited,  the  spirits  are  enlivened ;  and  these  effects 
are  so  agreeable  that  all  mankind,  afler  having  once  experi- 
enced them,  feel  a  great  desire  for  their  repetition. 

But  this  temporary  invigoration  of  the  system  is  always 
followed  by  a  diminution  of  the  powers  of  the  stimulated 
organs ;  so  that,  though  in  all  cases  this  reaction  may  not  be 

10* 


226  THE  HaUSXKESPJBB  AND  HSALTHKSSPSB.' 

perceptible,  it  is  invariably  the  result.  It  may  be  set  down 
as  the  unchangeable  rule  of  physiology,  that  stimulating 
drinks  deduct  from  the  powers  of  the  constitution  in  exactly 
the  proportion  in  which  they  operate  to  produce  temporary 
invigoration. 

.The  second  evil  is  the  temptation  which  always  attends 
the  use  of  stimulants.  Their  effect  on  the  system  is  so 
agreeable,  and  the  evils  resulting  are  so  imperceptible  and 
distant,  that  there  is  a  constant  tendency  to  increase  such 
excitement,  both  in  frequency  and  power;  and  the  more 
the  system  is  thus  reduced  in  strength,  the  more  craving  is 
the  desire  for  that  which  imparts  a  temporary  invigoration. 
This  process  of  increasing  debility  and  increasing  craving 
for  the  stimulus  that  removes  it,  oflen  goes  to  such  an  ex* 
treme  that  the  passion  is  perfectly  uncontrollable,  and  'mind 
and  body  perish  under  this  baleful  habit. 

In  this  country  there  are  three  forms  in  which  the  use  of 
such  stimulants  is  common ;  namely,  cUcoholic  drinks^  opium 
mixtures^  and  tobacco.  These  are  all  alike  in  the  main  pecul- 
iarity of  imparting  that  extra  stimulus  to  the  system  which 
tends  to  exhaust  its  powers 

Multitudes  in  this  nation  are  in  the  habitual  use  of  some 
one  of  these  stimulants ;  and  each  person  defends  the  indul- 
gence by  certain  arguments : 

First,  that  the  desire  for  stimulants  is  a  natural  propensity 
injplanted  in  man's  nature,  as  is  manifest  from  the  universal 
tendency  to  such  indulgences  in  every  nation^  From  this 
it  is  inferred  that  it  is  an  innocent  desire,  which  ought  to  be 
gratified  to  some  extent,  and  that  the  aim  should  be  to  keep 
it  within  the  limits  of  temperance,  instead  of  attempting  to 
exterminate  a  natural  propensity. 

This  is  an  argument  which,  if  true,  makes  it  equally  prop- 
er for  not  only  men,  but  women  and  children^  to  use  opium, 
brandy,  or  tobacco  as  stimulating  principles,  provided  they 
are  used  temperately.  But  if  it  be  granted  that  perfect 
health  and  strength  can  be  gained  and  secured  without  these 
stimulants,  and  that  their  peculiar  effect  is  to  diminish  the 
power  of  the  system  in  exactly  the  same  proportion  as  they 
stimulate  it,  then  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  temperate  use, 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DBIl^KS.  227 

unless  they  are  so  diluted  as  to  destroy  any  sUmalating 
power;  and: in  this  form  thefy  are  seldom  desired* 

The  other  argument  for  their  use  is,  that  they  are  among 
the  good  things  provided  by  the  Creator  for  our  gratifica- 
tion ;  that,  like  all  other  blessings,  they  are  exposed  to  abuse 
and  excess ;  and  that  we  should  rather  seek  to  regulate  their 
use  than  to  banish  them  entirely. 

Thb  argument  is  based  on  the  assumption  that  they  are^ 
like  healthful  foods  and  drinks,  necessary  to  life  and  health, 
and  injurious  only  by  excess.  But  this  is  not  true;  for 
whenever  they  are  used  in  any  such  strength  as  to  be  a 
gratification,  they  operate  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  as  stim- 
ulants, and  to  just  such  extent  they  wear  out  the  powers 
of  the  constitution ;  and  it  is  abundantly  proved  that  they 
are  not,  like  food  and  drink,  niecessary  to  health.  Such  ar- 
ticles are  designed  for  medicine,  and  not  for  common  use. 
There  can  be  no  argument  framed  to  defend  the  use  of  one 
of  them  which  will  not  justify  women  and  children  in  most 
dangerous  indulgences. 

There  are  some  facts  recently  revealed  by  the  microscope 
in  regard  to  alcoholic  drinks  which  every  woman  should 
understand  and  regard.  It  has  been  shown  in  a  previous 
chapter  that  every  act  of  mind,  either  by  thought,  feeling, 
or  choice,  causes  the  destruction  of  certain  cells  in  the  brain 
and  nerves.  It  now  is  proved  by  microscopic  science*  that 
the  kind  of  nutrition  fuinished  to  the  brain  by  the  blood  to 
a  certain  extent  decides  future  feelings,  thoughts,  and  voli- 
tions. The  cells  of  the  brain  not  only  abstract  from  the 
blood  the  healthful  nutrition,  but  also  are  affected  in  shiape, 
siase,  color,  and  action  by  unsuitable  elements  in  the  blood. 
This  is  especially  the  case  when  alcohol  is  taken  into  the 
stomach,  from  whence  it  is  always  carried  to  the  brain.  The 
consequence  is,  that  it  affects  the  nature  and  action  of  the 
brain-cells,  until  a  habit  is  formed  which  is  automcUic;  that 
is,  the  mind  loses  the  power  of  controlling  the  brain  in  its 
development  ^f  thoughts,  feelings,  and  choices  as  it  would 
in  the  natural  state,  and  is  itself  controlled  by  the  brain. 

*  For  these  statements  the  writer  is  indebted  to  Maadslej,  a  recent  writer 
oo  Microscopic  Physiology. 


228  THE  HOUSKSLBSPEB  ASD   HEALTHKZSPER. 

In  this  condition  a  real  disease  of  the  brain  is  created,  called 
oino-mania^  and  the  only  remedy  is  total  abstinence,  and 
that  for  a  long  period,  from  the  alcoholic  poison.  And  what 
makes  the  danger  more  fearfal  is,  that  the  brain-cells  never 
are  so  renewed  bat  that  this  pernicious  stimulus  will  bring 
back  the  disease  in  full  force,  so  that  a  man  once  subject  to 
it  is  never  safe  except  by  maintaining  perpetual  and  total 
abstinence  from  every  kind  of  alcoholic  drink.  Dr.  Day,  who 
for  many  years  has  had  charge  of  an  inebriate  asylum,  states 
that  he  witnessed  the  dissection  of  the  brain  of  a  man  once 
an  inebriate,  but  for  many  years  in  practice  of  total  absti- 
nence, and  found  its  cells  still  in  the  weak  and  unnatural 
state  produced  by  earlier  indulgences. 

There  has  unfortunately  been  a  difference  of  opinion 
limong  medical  men  as  to  the  use  of  alcohoL  Liebig,  the 
celebrated  writer  on  animal  chemistry,  having  found  that 
both  sugar  and  alcohol  were  heat-producing  articles  of  food, 
framed  a  theory  that  alcohol  is  burned  in  the  lungs,  giving 
off  carbonic  acid  and  water,  and  thus  serving  to  warm  the 
body.  But  modem  science  has  proved  that  it  is  in  the  cap- 
illaries that  animal  heat  is  generated,  and  it  is  believed  that 
alcohol  lessens  instead  of  increasing  the  power  of  the  body 
to  j>ear  the  cold.  Sir  John  Ross,  in  his  Arctic  voyage,  proved 
by  his  own  experience  and  that  of  his  men  that  cold-water  - 
diinkers  could  bear  cold  longer  and  were  stronger  than  any 
who  used  alcohol. 

Carpenter,  a  standard  writer  on  physiology,  says  the  ob- 
jection to  a  habitual  use  of  even  small  quantities  of  alco- 
holic drinks  is,  that  **  they  are  universally  admitted  to  pos- 
sess a  poisonous  character,"  and  '^  tend  to  produce  a  morbid 
condition  of  body ;"  while  "  the  capacity  for  enduring  ex- 
tremes of  heat  and  cold,  or  of  mental  or  bodily  labor,  is  di- 
minished rather  than  increased  by  their  habitual  employ 
ment" 

Professor  J.  Bigelow,  of  Harvard  University,  says:  "Alco- 
hol is  highly  stimulating,  heating,  and  intoxicating,  and  its 
effects  are  so  fascinating  that  when  once  experienced  there 
is  danger  that  the  desire  for  them  may  be  perpetuated." 

Dr.  Bell  and  Dr.  Churchill,  both  high  medical  authorities. 


HBALTH7UL  FOOD  AND  DRINKS.  229 

especially  iji  luDg  disease,  for  which  whisky  is  often  recoih- 
mended,  come  to  the  oonclnsion  that  J'  the  opinion  that  alco- 
holic liquors  have  influence  in  preventing  the  deposition  of 
tubercle  is  destitute  of  any  foundation;  on  the  contrary, 
their  use  predisposes  to  tubercular  deposition."  And 
^^  where  tubercle  exists,  alcohol  has  no  effect  in  modifying 
the  usual  course,  neither  does  it  modify  the  morbid  effects 
on  the  system.'* 

Professor  Yonmans,  of  New  York,  says:  "It  has  been 
demonstrated  that  alcoholic  diinks  prevent  the  natural 
changes  in  the  blood,  and  obstruct  the  nutritive  and  repara- 
tive functions."  He  adds:  "Chemical  experiments  have 
demonstrated  that  the  action  of  alcohol  on  the  digestive 
fluid  is  to  destroy  its  active  principle,  the  j^epsin^  thus  con- 
firming the  observations  of  physiologists,  that  its  use  gives 
rise  to  serious  disorders  of  the  stomach,  and  malignant  aber- 
ration of  the  whole  economy."  It  is  true  that  some  scientif^' 
io  men  teach  that  alcohol,  tobacco,  and  opium  are  safe,  and 
even  useful,  in  certain  quantities,  though  there  is  no  i^ay  to 
know  wbat  is  the  safe  and  useful  point.  Usually  it  is  men 
who  habKually  use  some  of  these  dangerous  articled  who 
hold  this  view. 

We  are  now  prepared  to  consider  the  great  principles  of 
science,  common  sense,  and  religion,  which  should  guide  ev- 
ery woman  who  has  any  kind  of  influence  or  responsibility 
on  this  subject. 

It  is  allowed  by  all  medical  men  that  pure  water  is  per- 
fectly healthful,  and  supplies  all  the  liquid  needed  by  the 
body ;  and  Also  that  by  proper  means,  which  ordinarily  are 
in  the  reach  of  all,  water  can  be  made  sufficiently  pure. 

It  is  allowed  by  all  that  milk,  and  the  juices  of  fruits, 
when  taken  into  the  stomach,  furnish  water  that  is  always 
pure,  and  that  our  bread  and  vegetable  food  also  supply  it 
in  large  quantities.  There  are  besides  a  great  variety  of 
agreeable  and  healthful  beverages,  made  from  the  juices  of 
fruit,  containing  no  alcohol ;  and  agreeable  drinks,  such'  as 
milk,  cocoa,  and  chocolate,  that  contain  no  stimulating  prin- 
ciples, and  which  are  nourishing  and  healthful. 

As  one  course,  then,  is  perfectly  safe,  and  another  involves 


230      THE  BOUSEKSEPSB  AND  HEALTHKSSPEB. 

great  danger^  it  is  wrong  and  sinful  to  choose  the  path  of 
danger.  There  is  no  peril  in  drinl&ng  pore  water,  milk,  the 
juices  of  fruits,  and  infusions  that  are  nourishing  and  harm- 
less. But  there  is  great  danger  to  the  young,  and  to  the 
commonwealth,  in  patronizing  the  sale  and  use  of  alcoholic 
drinks.  The  religion  of  Christ,  in  its  distinctive  feature,  in- 
volves generous  self-denial  for  the  good  of  others,  especially 
for  the  weaker  members  of  society.  It  is  on  this  principle 
that  St  Paul  sets  forth  his  own  example:  ^' If  meat  make  my 
brother  to  ofi^nd,  I  will  eat  no  flesh  while  the  world  stand- 
eth,  lest  I  make  my  brother  to  offend.^'  And  again  he 
teaches,  ^*  We,  then,  that  are  strong  ought  to  bear  the  infirm- 
ities of  the  weak,  and  not  to  please  ourselves." 

This  Christian  principle  also  applies  to  the  common  drinks 
of  the  family,  tea  and  coffee.  It  has  been  shown  that  the 
great  end  for  which  Jesus  Christ  came,  and  for  which  he  in- 
stituted the  family  state,  is  the  training  of  our  whole  race 
to  virtue  and  happiness,  with  chief  reference  to  an  immortal 
existence.  In  this  mission,  of  which  woman  is  chief  minis- 
ter, the  distinctive  feature  is  self-sacrifice  of  the  wiser  and 
stronger  members  to  save  and  to  elevate  the  wdliker  ones. 
The  children  and  the  servants  are  these  weaker  members, 
who  by  ignorance  and  want  of  habits  of  self-control  are  in 
most  danger.  It  is  in  this  aspect  that  we  are  to  consider 
the  expediency  of  using  tea  and  coffee  in  a  family. 

These  drinks  are  a  most  extensive  cause  of  much  of  the 
nervous  debility  and  suffering  endured  by  American  wom- 
en ;  and  relinquishing  them  would  save  an  immense  amount 
of  such  suffering.  Moreover,  all  housekeeper^,  will  allow 
that  they  can  not  regulate  these  drinks  in  their  kitchens, 
whera  the  ignorant  use  them  to  excess.  There  is  little 
probability  that  the  present  generation  will  make  so  decided 
a  change. in  their  habits  as  to  give  up  these  beverages;  but 
the  subject  is  presented  rather  in  reference  to  forming  the 
habits  of  children. 

It  is  a  fact  that  tea  and  coffee  are  at  first  seldom  or  never 
agreeable  to  children.  It  is  the  mixture  of  milk,  sugar,  and 
water,  that  reconciles  them  to  a  taste  which  in  this  manner 
gradually  becomes  agreeable.    Now,  suppose  that  those  who 


HBALTHFXXL  FOOD  AND  DBINKS.  •  231 

m 
m 

provide  for  a  family  conclude  that  it  is  not  their  daty  to 
give  up  entirely  the  use  of  stimulating  drinks,  may  not  the 
case  appear  different  in  regard  to  teaching  their  children  to 
love  such  drinks?  Let  the  matter  be  regarded  thns:  The 
experiments  of  physiologists  all  prove  that  stimulants  are 
not  needful  to  health,  and  that,  as  the  general  rule,  they  tend 
to  debilitate  the  constitution.  Is  it  right,  th^n^for  a  parent 
to  tempt  a  child  to  drink  what  is  not  needful,  when  there  is 
a  probability  that  it  will  prove,  to  some  extent,  an  under- 
mining drain  on  the  constitution?  Some  constitutions' can 
bear  much  less  excitement  than  others ;  and  in  every  family 
of  children  there  is  usually  one  or  more  of  delicate  organi- 
zation, and  consequently  peculiarly  exposed  to  dangers  from 
this  source.  It  is  this  child  who  ordinarily  becomes  the  vic- 
tim to  stimulating  drinks.  The  tea  and  coffee  which'  the 
parents  and  the  healthier  children  can  use  without  immedi- 
ate injury  gradually  sap  the  energies  of  the  feebler  child, 
who  proves  either  an  early  victim  or  a  living  martyr  to  all 
the  sufferings  that  debilitated  nerves  inflict.  Can  it  be  right 
to  lead  children  where  all  allow  that  there  is  some  danger, 
and  where  in  many  cases  disease  and  death  are  met,  when 
another  path  is  known  to  be  perfectly  safe  ? 

The  impression  common  in  this  country,  that  toarm  drinks^ 
especially  in  winter,  are  more  healthful  than  cold,  is  not  war- 
ranted hj  any  experience,  nor  by  the  laws  of  the  physical 
system.  At  dinner  cold  drinks  are  universal,  and  no  one 
deems  them  injurious.  It  is  only  at  the  other  two  meals, 
that  they  are  supposed  to  be  hurtfuL 

^^  Water  is  a  safe  drink  for  all  constitutions,  provided  it  be 
resorted  to  in  obedience  to  the  dictates  of  natural  thirst  only, 
and  not  of  habit.  Unless  the  desire  for  it  is  felt,  there  is  no 
occasion  for  its  use  during  a  meal. 

^'  The  primary  effect  of  all  distilled  and  fermented  liquors 
is  to  stimukUe  the  nervous  system  and  quicken  the  circulation* 
In  infancy  and  childhood  the  circulation  is  rapid  and  easily 
excited,  and  the  nervous  system  is  strongly  acted  upon  even 
by  the  Hslightest  external  impressions.  Hence,  slight  causes 
of  irritation  rejidily.  excite  febrile  and  convulsive  disordei*s. 
In  youth,  the  natural  tendency  of  the  constitution^  is  still  to 


232      THB-  HOUSSKSSPEB  AND  HSAU1SKSSPSB. 

•   « 

excitement,  and  consequently,  as  a  general  rule,  the  stimu- 
lus of  fermented  liquors  is  injurious." 

These  remarks  by  Dr.  Combe  show  that  parents,  who  find 
that  stimulating  drinks  are  not  injurious  to  themselves,  may 
mistake  in  inferring  from  this  that  they  will  not  be  injurious 
to  their  children. 

He  continues  thus :  '^  In  mature  age,  when  digestion  is 
good,  and  the  system  in  full  vigor,  if  the  mode  of  life  be  not 
too  exhausting,' the  nervous  functions  and  general  circula- 
tion are  in  their  best  condition,  and  require  no  stimulus  for 
their  support.  The  bodily  energy  is  then  easily  sustained 
by  nutritious  food  and  a  regular  regimen,  and  consequently 
artificial  excitement  only  increases  the  wasting  of  the  nat- 
ural strength." 

It  may  be  asked,  in  this  connection,  why  the  stimulus  of 
animal  food  is  not  to  be  regarded  in  the  same  light  as  that 
of  stiniulating  drinks.  In  reply,  a  very  essential  difference 
may  be  pointed  out.  Animal  food  furnishes  nutriment  to 
the  organs  which  it  stimulates,  but  stimulating  drinks  excite 
the  organs  to  quickened  action  without  affording  any  nour- 
ishment. 

It  has  been  supposed  by  some  that  tea  and  coffee  have  at 
least  a  degree  of  nourishing  power.  But  it  is  proved  that 
it  is  the  milk  and  sugar,  and  not  the  main  portion  of  the 
drink,  which  imparts  the  nourishment;  Tea  has  not  one  par- 
ticle of  nourishing  properties ;  and  what  little  exists  in  the 
•  coffee-berry  is  lost  by  roasting  it  in  the  usual  mode.  All 
that  these  articles  do  is  simply  to  stimtdcUe  without  nour- 
ishing. 

Although  there  is  little  hope  of  banishing  these  drinks, 
there  is  still  a  chance  that  something  may  be  gained  in  at- 
tempts to  regulate  their  use  by  the  rules  of  temperance.  If, 
then,  a  housekeeper  can  not  banish  tea  and  coffee  entirely, 
she  may  use  her  influence  to  prevent  excess,  both  by  her  in- 
structions, and  by  the  power  of  control  committed  more  or 
less  to  her  hands. 

It  is  important  for  every  housekeeper  to  know  that  the 
health  of  a  family  very  much  depends  on  the  purity  of  water 
used  for  codking  ^nd  drinking.    There  are  three  causey  of 


HEALTHFUL  FOOD  AND  DSINSIS.  4233 

impure  and  unhealthful  water.  One  is,  the  existence  in  it 
of  vegetable  or  animal  matter,' which  can  be  remedied  bj 
filtering  through  sand  and  charcoal.  Another  cause  is,  the 
existence  of  mineral  matter,  especially  in  limestone  coun- 
tries, producing  diseases  of  the  bladder.  This  is  remedied, 
in  a  measure,  by  boiling,  which  secures  a  deposit  of  the  lime 
on  the  vessel  used.  The  third  cause  is,  the  corroding  of  zinc 
and  lead  used  in  pipes  and  reservoirs,  producing  oxides  that 
are  slow  poisons.  The  only  remedy  is  prevention,  by  having 
supply-pipes  made  of  iron,  like  gas-pipe,  instead  of  zinc  and 
lead ;  or  the  lately  invented  lead  pipe  lined  with  tin,  which 
metalis  not  corrosive.  The  obstacle  to  this  is,  that  the  trade 
of  the  plumbers  would  be  greatly  diminished  by  the  use*  of 
reliable  pipes.  When  water  must  be  used  from  supply-pipes 
of  lead  or  zinc,  it  is  well  to  let  the  water  run  some  time  be- 
fore drinking  it,  and  to  use  as  little  as  possible,  taking  milk 
instead;  and  being  further  satisfied  for  inner  necessities  by 
the  water  supplied  by  fruits  and  vegetables.  The  water  in 
these  is  always  pure.  But  in  using  milk  as  a  drink,  it  must 
be  remembered  th&t  it  is  also  rich  food,  and  that  less  of  other 
food  must  be  taken  when  milk  is  thus  used,  or  bilious  troubles 
will  result  from  excess  of  food. 
The  use  of  opium,  especially  by  women,  is  usually  caused 

'  at  first  by  medical  prescriptions  containing  it.  All  that  has 
been  stated  as  to  the  effect  of  alcohol  in  the  brain  is  true  of 
opium,  while  to  break  a  habit  thus  induced  is  almost  hope- 

.  less.  Every  woman  who  takes  or  who  administers  this  drng 
is  dealing  as  with  poisoned  arrows,  whose  wounds  are  with- 
out cure. 

The  use  of  tobacco  in  this  country,  and  especially  among 
young  boys,  is  increasing  at  a  fearful  rate.  On  this  subject 
we  have  the  unanifious  opinion  of  all  medical  men,  the  fol- 
lowing being  specimens. 

A  distinguished  medical  writer. thus  states  the  case: 
^  Every  physician  knows  that  the  agreeable  sensations  that 
tempt  to  the  use  of  tobacco  are  caused  by  nicotine^  which  is 
a  rank  poison,  as  much  so  as  prussic  acid  or  arsenic.  When 
smoked,  the  poison  is  absorbed  by  the  blood  of  the  mouth, 
and  carried  to  the  brain.     When  chewed,  the  nicotine  passes 


234      THB  HOUSBKEEPBB  AKD  HBALTHKBBPBB. 

to  the  blood  through  the  mouth  and  stomach.  In  both  cases, 
the  whole  nervoas  system  is  thrown  into  abnormal  excite- 
ment, to  expel  the  poison,  and  it  is  this  excitement  that 
cau&es  agreeable  sensations  The  excitement  thus  caused  is 
invariably  followed  by  a  diminution  of  nervous  power,  in 
exact  proportion  to  the  preceding  excitement  to  expel  the 
evil  from  the  system.'* 

•  Few  will  dispute  the  general  truth  and  effect  of  the  above 
statement,  so  that  the  question  is  one  to  be  settled  on  the 
same  principle  as  applies  to  the  use  of  alcoholic  drinks.  Is 
it,  then,  according  to  the  generous^  principles  of  Christ's  re- 
ligion, for  those  who  are  strong  and  able  to  bear  this  poison, 
to  tempt  the  young,  the  ignorant,  and  the  weak  to  a  prac- 
tice not  needful  to  any  healthful  enjoyment,  and  which  leads 
multitudes  to  disease,  and  oflen  to  vice  ?  For  the  use  of 
tgbacco  tends  always  to  lessen  nerve-power,  and  probably 
evei*y  one  out  of  five  that  indulges  in  its  use  awakens  a  mor- 
bid craving  for  increased  stimulus,  lessens  the  power  of 
self-control,  diminishes  the  strength  of  the  constitution,  and 
sets  an  example  that  influences  the  wea;k  to  the  path  of 
danger  and  of  frequent  ruin. 

The  great  danger  of  this  age  is  an  increasing,  intense 
worldliness,  and  disbelief  in  the  foundation  principle  of  the 
religion  of  Christ,  that  we  are  to  reap  through  everlasting 
ages  the  consequences  of  habits  formed  in  this  life.  In  the 
light  of  his  Word,  they  only  who  are  truly  wise  ''shall  shine, 
as  the  firmament,  and  they  that  turn  many  to  righteousness, 
as  the  stars,  forever  and  ever." 

It  is  increased  faith  or  hdief  in  the  teachings  of  Christ's 
religion,  as  to  the  influence  of  this  life  upon  the  life  to  come^ 
which  alone  can  save  our  country  and  the  world  from  that 
inrushing  tide  of  sensualism  and  worlcRiness  now  seeming 
to  threaten  the  best  hopes  and  prospects  of  our  race. 

And  woman,  as  the  chief  educator  'of  our  race,  and  the 
prime  minister  of  the  family  state,  is  bound,  in  the  use  of 
•  meats  and  drinks,  to  employ  the  powerful  and  distinctive 
motives  of  the  religion  of  Christ  in  forming  habits  of  tem- 
perance and  betevolent  self-sacrifice  for  the  good  of  others. 


dJKAiiutisaa, 


CHAPTER  X. 

Both  {he  bealtb  and  comfort  of  a  &mily  depend,  to  a 
great  extent,  on  cleanlineBB  of  the  person  -and  the  family 
aun-oundinga  Trae  deanlinese  of  person  involves  the  scien- 
tific treatment  of  the  skin.  This  is  the  most  complicated 
organ  of  the  body,  and  one  through  which  the  health  is  al^ 
fected  more  than  through  any  other;  and  no  persons  can  or 
will  be  eo  likely  to  take  proper  care  of  it  aa  those  by  whom 
its  construction  and  functions  are  understood. 

Fig.  fiS  is  a  very  highly  magnified  portion  of  the  skin. 
The  layer  marked  I  ia  the  fig.ea. 

outside,  very  thin  skin,  called   ^ 
the  cuiicle  or  scarf  a&in.  This 
Gonsiata  of  transparent  Jay-   I 
era  of  minute  cells,  which  a 
constantly  decaying  and  be-  I 
ing  renewed,  and  the  white 
scurf  that  passes  from  the  I 
skin  to  the  clothing  is  a  de-  I 
cayed  portion  of  these  cells. 
This  part  of  the  skin  has  nei- 
ther nerves  nor  blood-vessels. 

Tbe  dark  layer,  marked  2,  7,  8,  is  that  portion  of  the  true 
akin  which  gives  the  external  color  marking  diverse  races. 
In  the  portion  of  the  dark  layer  marked  3, 4,  is  seen  a  net- 
work of  nenves  which  run  from  two  branches  of  the  nervosa 
tmnks  coming  from  the  spinal  marrow.  These  are  nerves 
of  sensation,  by  which  the  sense  of  touch  or  feeling  is  per- 
formed. Fig.  56  represents  the  blood-vcEsels,  (intermingled 
with  the  nerves  of  the  akin,)  which  divide  into  minute  capil- 
laries; that  act  like  the  capillaries  of  the  lungs,  taking  oxy- 
gen from  the  air,  and  giving  ont  carbonic  acid.  At  a  and 
b  ars  seen  the  roots  of  two  hairs,  which  abonnd  in  certain 


23S  tSB   HOUSBKXEPftB  AKD  BXALTHKBEFXR. 

Fis.ro.  p&rts  of  tbe  skin,  aud  are  nour- 

ished by  tbe  blood  of  the  capil- 
[  l&ries. 

At  Pig.  57  is  a  magnifiod  view 
I  of  another  set  of  v.esBela,  call' 
I  ed  the  lymplKUict  or  abaorbaiU. 
These  are  extremely  mieute  ves- 
I  sels  that  interlace  with  {he  nerves 
I  and  blood-vessels  of  tbe  skin. 
[  Their  office  is  to  aid  in  collecting 
f  the  useteBB,  injurioas,  or  decayed 
I  matter,  and  carry  it  to  certain 
reservoirs,  from  which  it  passes 
into  some  of  the  large  veins,  to  be  thrown  out  through  the 
lungs,  bowels,  kidneys,  or    skin,  7\s.Ki. 

These  absorbent  or  lymphatic  ve3- 
tela  have  moutlis  opening  on  the 
.  surfaceofthe tmeskiii,and,thoagh 
covered  by  the  cuticle,  they  can  ab-  [ 
sorb  both  liquids  and  solids  that  1 
are  placed  in  close  contact  w 
the  skin,  la  proof  of  this,  one  of 
tbe  main  tranks  of  the  lymphatics 
in  the  hand  can  be  cut  off  from 
all  communication  with  other  per- 
tJons,  and  tied  up;  and  if  the  hand  is  immersed  in  milk  a! 
given  time,  it  will  be  found  that  the  milk  has  been  absorbed 
throngh  the  cuticle' and  fills  the  lymphatics.  In  this  way 
long-continued  blisters  on  the  skin  will  introduce  the  blister- 
ing matter  into  the  blood  through  the  absorbents,  and  then 
the  kidneys  will  take  it  up  from  tbe  blood  passing  throogh 
them  to  carry  it  out  of  the  body,  and  thus  become  irritated 
and  inflamed  by  it. 

There  are  also  oil-tubes,  imbedded  In  the  skin,  that  draw 

ofToil  from  the  blood.    ThisiaaueBon  the  surface,  and  spreads 

over  the  cuticle  to  keep  it  aott  and  moist. 

But  the  moat  curioua  part  of  the  skin  is  the  system  of  in- 

'  numerable  minute  perspiration-tubea.     Fig.  58  is  a  drawing 

of  one  very  greatly  magnified.    These  tubes  open  on  the 


CI.EASLIItXS8.  237 

cuticle,  and  the  openings  are  called  pores  ng.ss. 

of  the  skin.    They  descend  into  the  trae 

skin,  and  Uiere  form  a  coil,  as  is  seen  in 

the  drawing.     These  tnbea  are  hollow, 

like  a  pipe-stem,  and  their  inner  surface 

consists  of  wonderfully  minnte  capillaries 

611ed  with  the  impure  venous  blood.  And 

in  these  small  tube&  the  same  process  is 

going  on  as  takes  place  when  the  cai-bonic 

acid  and  water  of  the  blood  are  exhaled 

from  the  lungs.     The  capillaries  of  these 

tubes  through  the  whole  skin  of  the  body 

arc  thus  constantly  exhaling  the  noxious 

and  decayed  particles  of  the  body,  just 

as  the  lungs  pour  them  out  through  the 

mouth  and  nose. 

It  has  been  shown  that  the  perspira- 
tion-tubes are  coiled  up  into  a  ball  at 
their  base.  The  number  and  extent  of  these  tubes  are  as- 
tonishing. In  a  square  inch  on  the  palm  of  the  hand  have 
been  counted,  through  a  microscope,  thirty-five  hundred  of 
these  tubes.  Each  one  of  them  is  about  a  quarter  of  an  iiicb 
in  length,  including  its  coils.  This  makes  the  united  leo^hs 
of  the^  little  tubes  to  be  seventy-three  feet  to  a  square  inch; 
Their  united  length  over  the  whole  body  is  thus  calculated 
to  be  equ^l  to  twenty-eight  milet.  What  a  wonderful  appara- 
tus this !  And  what  mischiefs  must  ensue  when  the  drainage 
from  -the  body  of  such  an  extent  as  this  becomes  obstructed  1 

But  the  inside  of  the  body  also  has  a  skin,  as  have  all  its 
organs.  The  Interior  of  the  bead,  the  throat,  the  gullet,  the  . 
lungs,  the  stomach,  and  all  the  intestines,  are  lined  with  iv 
akin.  This  is  called  the  mucous  memdran«,  because  it  is  con- 
stantly secreting  from  the  blood  a  slimy  substance  called  mif 
eta.  When  it  accumulates  in  the  lungs,  it  is  called  phlegm. 
This  inner  skin  also  has  nerves,  blood-vessels,  and  lymphat- 
.ics.  The  outer  skin  joins  to  the  inner  at  the  mouth,  the 
nose,  and  other  openings  of  the  body,  and  there  is  a  con- 
stant sympathy  between  the  two  skins,  and  thus  between 
the  inner  organs  and  the  surface  of  the  body. 


288  T]BS  HOX78SKEXPBB  AND  HBALTHXSSPBB. 


SBCBXTIKO   0KOAN8. 

Those  vessels  of  the  body  which  draw  off  certaiD  portions 
of  the  blood  and  change  it  into  a  new  form,  to  be  employed 
for  service  or  to  be  thrown  oat  of  the  body,  are  called  m- 
creting  organs.  The  skin  in  this  sense  is  a  secreting  organ, 
as  its  perspiration-tubes  secrete  or  separate  the  bad  portions 
of  the  blood,  and  send  them  off. 

Of  the  internal  secreting  organs,  the  liver  is  the  largest. 
Its  chief  office  is  to  secrete  from  the  blood  all  matter  not 
properly  supplied  with  oxygen.  For  this  purpose,  a  set  of 
veins  carries  the  blood  of  all  the  lower  intestines  to  the  liver, 
where  the  imperfectly  oxidized  matter  is  drawn  off  in  the 
form  of  hile^  and  accumulated  in  a  reservoir  called  the  gaU' 
bladder.  Thence  it  passes  to  the  place  where  the  smaller 
intestines  receive  the  food  from  the  stomach,  and  there  it 
mixes  with  this  food.  Then  it  passes  through  the  long  in- 
testines, and  is  thrown  out  of  the  body  through  the  rectum. 
This  shows  how  it  is  that  want  of  pure  and  cool  air  and 
exercise  causes  excess  of  bile,  from  lack  of  oxygen.  The 
liver  also  has  arterial  blood  sent  to  nounsh  it,  and  corre- 
spending  veins  to  return  this  blood  to  the  heart.  So  there 
ar^  two  sets  of  blood-vessels  for  the  liver — one  to  secrete 
the  bile,  and  the  other  to  nourish  the  organ  itself. 

The  kidneys  secrete  from  the  arteries  that  pass  through 
them  all  excess  of  water  in  the  blood,  and  certain  injurious 
substances.  These  are  carried  through  small  tubes  to  the 
bladder,  and  thence  thrown  out  of  the  body. 

The  pancreas^  a  whitish  gland  situated  in  the  abdomen  be- 
low the  stomach,  secretes  from  the  arteries  that  pass  through 
it  the  pancreatic  juice,  which  unites  with  the  bile  from  the 
liver,  in  preparing  the  food  for  nourishing  the  body. 

There  are  certain  little  glands  near  the  eyes  that  secrete 
the  tears,  and  others  near  the  mouth  that  secrete  the  saliva, 
or  spittle. 

These  organs  all  have  arteries  sent  to  them  to  nourish 
them,  and  also  veins  to  carry  away  the  impure  blood.  At 
the  same  time,  they  secrete  from  the  arterial  blood  the  pe^ 
culiar  fluid  which  it  is  their  office  to  supply. 


CLEANLINESS.  -239 

All  the  food  that  passes  throngh  the  lower  intestines 
which  is  not  drawn  off  by  the  lacteals  or  by  some  of  these 
secreting  organs,  passes  from  the  body  through  a  passage 
called  the  rectam. 

Learned  men  have  made  very  curions  experiments  to  as- 
certain how  much  the  several  organs  throw  out  of  the  body. 
It  is  found  that  the  skin  throws  off  five  out  of  eight  pounds 
of  the  food  and  drink,  or  probably  about  three  or  four 
pounds  a  day.  The  lungs  throw  off  one  quarter  as  much  as 
the  skin,  or  about  a  pound  a  day.  The  remainder  is  carried 
off  by  the  kidneys  and  lower  intestines. 

There  is  such  a  sympathy  and  connection  between  all  the 
organs  of  the  body,  that  when  one  of  them  is  unable  to 
work,  the  others  perform  the  office  of  the  feeble  one.  Thus, 
if  the  skin  has  its  perspiration-tubes  closed  up  by  a  chill, 
then  all  the  poisonous  matter  that  would  have  been  thrown 
out  through  them  must  be  emptied  out  either  by  the  lungs, 
kidneys,  or  bowels. 

'  When  all  these  organs  are  strong  and  healthy,  they  can 
bear  this  increased  labor  without  injury.  But  if  the  lungs 
are  weak,  the  blood  sent  from  the  skin  by  the  chill  engorges 
the  weak  blood-vessels,  and  produces  an  inflammation  of  the 
lungs.  Or  it  increases  the  discharge  of  a  slimy  mucous  sub- 
stance, that  exudes  from  the  skin  of  the  lungs.  This  fills  up 
the  air-vessels,  and  would  very  soon  end  life,  were  it  not  for 
the  spasms  of  the  lungs,  called  coughingy  which  throw  off 
this  substance. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  bowels  are  weak,  a  chill  of  the 
skin  sends  the  blood  into  all  the  blood-vessels  of  the  intes- 
tines, and  produces  inflammation  there,  or  else  an  excessive 
secretion  of  the  mucous  substance,  which  is  called  a  diar- 
rhecu  Or  if  the  kidneys  are  weak,  there  is  an  increased  se- 
cretion and  discharge  from  them,  to  an  unhealthy  and  inju- 
rious extent. 

This  connection  between  the  skin  and  internal  organs  is 
shown,  not  only  by  the  internal  effects  of  a  chill  on  the  skin, 
but  by  the  sympathetic  effect  on  the  skin  when  these  intei^ 
nal  organs  suffer.  For  example,  there  are  some  kinds  of  food 
that  will  irritate  and  influence  the  stomach  or  the  bowels ; 


240      THB  HOUSSKSXPSB  AND  HSALTHKBEPES. 

r 

and'thisy  by  sympathy,  will  produce  an  immediate  eraption 
on  the  skin.  Some  personsy  on  eating  strawberries,  will  im- 
mediately be  affected  with  a  nettle-rash.  Others  can  not  eat 
certain  shell-fish  without  being  affected  in  this  way.  Many 
hnmors  on  the  face  are  caused  by  a  diseased  state  of  the  in- 
ternal organs  with  which  the  skin  sympathizes. 

This  short  account  of  the  construction  of  the  skin,  and  of 
its  intimate  connection  with  the  internal  organs,  shows  the 
philosophy  of  those  modes  of  medical  treatment  that  are  ad- 
dressed to  this  portion  of  the  body. 

It  is  on  this  powerful  agency  that  the  steam-doctors  rely, 
when,  by  moisture  and  heat,  they  stimulate  all  the  innumer- 
able perspiration-tubes  and  lymphatics  to  force  out  from  the 
body  a  flood  of  unnaturally  excited  secretions ;  while  it  is 
"  kill  or  cure,'^  just  as  the  chance  may  meet  or  oppose  the 
demands  of  the  case.  It  is  the  skin,  also,  that  is  the  chief 
basis  of  medical  treatment  in  the  Water  Cure,  whose  slow 
processes  are  as  much  safer  as  they  are  slower. 

At  the  same  time,  it  is  the  ill-treatment  or  neglect  of  the 
skin  which,  probably,  is  the  cause  of  disease  and  decay  to  an 
incredible  extent.  -  The  various  particulars  in  which  this 
may  be  seen  will  now  be  pointed  out.  In  the  management 
and  care  of  this,  wonderful  and  complex  part  of  the  body 
many  mistakes  have  been  made.  ' 

The  most  common  one  is  the  misuse  of  the  bath,  especially 
since  cold-water  cures  have  come  into  use.  This  mode  of 
medical  treatment  originated  with  an  ignorant  peasant,  amidst 
a  population  where  outdoor  labor  had  strengthened  nerves 
and  muscles  and  imparted  rugged  powers  to  every  part  of 
the  body.  It  was  then  introduced  into  England  an^  Ameri- 
ca without  due  consideration  or  knowledge  of  the  diseases, 
habits,  or  real  condition  of  patients,  especially  of  women. 
The  consequence  was  a  mode  of  treatment  too  severe  and 
exhausting;  and  many  practices  were,  spread  abroad  not 
warranted  by  true  medical  science. 

But,  in  spite  of  these  mistakes  and  abuses,  the  treatment 
of  the  skin  for  disease  by  the  use  of  cold  water  has  become 
an  accepted  doctrine  of  the  most  leamed  medical  practition- 
ers.   It  is  now  held  by  all  such  that  fevers  can  be  detected 


CLEANLINESS.  241 

in  their  distinctive  features  by  the  thermometer,  and  that  all 
fevers  can  be  reduced  by  cold  baths  and  packing  in  the  wet 
sheet,  in  the  mode  employed  in  all  water  cai*es. 

It  has  been  supposed  that  large  bath-tubs  for  immersing 
the  whole  person  are  indispensable  to  the  proper  cleaning 
of  the  skin.  This  is  not  so.  A  wet  towel,  applied  every 
morning  to  the  skin,  followed  by  friction  in  pure  air,  is  all 
that  is  absolutely  needed ;  although  a  full  bath  is  a  great 
luxury.  Access  of  air  to  every  part  of  the  skin,  when  its 
perspiratory  tubes  are  cleared  and  its  blood-vessels  are 
filled  by  friction,  is  the  best  ordinary  bath. 

Children  should  be  washed  all  over,  every  night  or  morn- 
ing, to  remove  impurities  from  the  skin.  But  in  this  proc- 
ess careful  regard  should  be  paid  to  the  peculiar  constita- 
tion.  of  a  child.  Very  nervous  child i-en  sometimes  revolt 
from  cold  water,  and  like  a  tepid  bath ;  others  prefer  a  cold 
bath ;  and  nature  should  be  the  guide.  It  roust  be  remem- 
bered that  the  skin  is  the  great  organ  of  sensation,  and  in 
close  connection  with  brain,  spine,  and  nerve-centres:  so 
that  what  a  strong  nervous  system  can  bear  with  advantage 
is  too  powerful  and  exhausting  for  another.  As  age  ad- 
vances, or  as  disease  debilitates  the  body,  great  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  overtax  the  nervous  system  by  sudden 
shocks,  or  to  diminish  its  powers  by  withdrawing  animal 
heat  to  excess.  Persons  lacking  robustness  should  bathe 
or  use  friction  in  a  warm  room ;  and  if  very  delicate,  should 
expose  only  a  portion  of  the  body  at  once  to  cold  air.  But 
an  evening  or  morning -washing  and  friction  of  the  skin  will 
save  from  colds  and  many  other  evils. 

Johnson,  a  celebrated  writer  on  agricultural  chemistry, 
tells  of  an  experiment  by  friction  on  the  skin  of  pigs,  whose 
skins  are  like  that  of  the  human  race.  He  treated  six  of 
these  animals  with  a  curry-comb  seven  weeks,  and  left  three 
other  pigs  untouched.  The  result  was  a  gain  of  thirty-three 
pounds  more  of  weight,  with  the  use  of  five  bushels  less  of 
food  for  those  curried,  than  for  the  neglected  ones.  This 
result  was  owing  to  the  fact  that  all  the  functions  of  the 
body  were  more  perfectly  performed  when,  by  friction,  the 
flkin  was  kept  free  from 'filth  and  the  blood  in  it  exposed  to 

11 


242  THB  H0U8EELEBPBB  AND  HXALTHKKBPBB. 

the  air.  The  same  will  be  trae  of  the  haman  skin.  A  cal- 
eolation  has  been  made  on  this  fact,  by  which  it  is  estimated 
that  a  man,  by  proper  care  of  his  skin,  would  save  over 
thirty-one  dollars  in  food  yearly,  which  at  6  per  cent  is  the 
interest  on  over  five  hnndred  dollars.  If  tnen  will  give  as 
much  care  to  their  own  skin  as  they  give  to  currying  a 
horse,  they  will  gain  both  health  and  wealth. 


clothing:  243 


CHAPTER  XI 

CLOTHING. 

Thbbx  is  no  duty  of  those  persons  having  control  of  a 
family  where  principle  and  practice  are  more  at  variance 
than  in  regulating  the  dress  of  young  girls,  especially  at  the 
most  important  and  critical  period  of  life.  It  is  a  difficult 
duty  for  parents  and  teachers  to  contend  with  the  power  of 
fashion,  which  at  this  time  of  a  young  girl's  life  is  frequent- 
ly the  ruling  thought,  and  when  to  be  out  of  the  fashion,  to 
be  odd  and  not  dress  as  all  her  companions  do,  is  a  morti- 
fication and  grief  that  no  argument  or  instructions  can  re- 
lieve. The  mother  is  often  so  overborne  that,  in  spite  of  her 
better  wishes,  the  daughter  adopts  modes  of  dress  alike  ruin- 
ous to  health  and  to  beauty. 

The  greatest  protection  against  such  an  emergency  is  to 
train  a  child  to  understand  the  construction  of  her  own 
body,  and  to  impress  upon  her,  in  early  days,  her  obligations 
to  the  invisible  Friend  and  Guardian  of  her  life,  the  ^  Former 
of  her  body  and  the  Father  of  her  spirit,"  who 'has  commit- 
ted to  her  care  so  precious  and  beautiful  a  casket  And  the 
more  she  can  be  made  to  realize  the  skill  and  beauty  of  con- 
struction shown  in  her  earthly  frame,  the  more  will  she  feel 
the  obligation  to  protect  it  from  injury  and  abuse. 

It  is  a  smgular  fact  that  the  war  of  fashion  has  attacked 
most  fatally  what  seems  to  be  the  strongest  foundation  and 
defense  of  the  body,  the  bones.    For  this  reason,  the  con-' 
struction  and  functions  of  this  part  of  the  body  will  now 
receive  attention. 

The  bones  are  composed  of  two  substances,  one  animal, 
and  the  other  mineraL  The  animal  part  is  a  very  fine  net- 
work. In  this  are  deposited  the  harder  mineral  substances, 
which  are  composed  principally  of  carbonate  and  phosphate 
of  lime.  In  very  early  life,  the  bones  consbt  chiefly  of  the 
anima}  part,  and  are  then  soft  and  pliant.    As  the  diild  ad- 


244      THB  H0U8SKXBPXB  AND  HXALTHKBXPSB. 

vances  in  age,  the  bones  grow  harder,  by  the  gradaal  depo- 
sition of  the  phosphate  of  lime,  which  is  supplied  by  the  iood, 
and  carried  to  the  bones  by  the  blood.  In  old  age,  the  hard- 
est material  preponderates ;  making  the  bones  more  brittle 
than  in  earlier  life. 

V  The  bones  are  covered  with  a  thin  skin  or  membrane,  fill- 
ed with  small  blood-vessels  which  convey  nourishment  to 
them. 

Where  the  bones  unite  with  others  to  form  joints,  they 
are  covered  with  cartilagey  which  is  a  smooth,  white,  elastic' 
substance.  This  enables  the  joints  to  move  smoothly,  while 
its  elasticity  prevents  injuries  from  sudden  jars. 

The  joints  are  bound  together  by  strong,  elastic  bands 
called  ligaments^  which  hold  them  firmly  and  prevent  dis- 
location. 

Between  the  ends  of  the  bones  that  unite  to  form  joints 
are  small  sacks  or  bags,  that  contain  a  soil  lubricating  fluid. 
This  answers  the  same  purpose  for  the  joints  as  oil  in  mak- 
ing machinery  work  smoothly,  while  the  supply  is  constant 
and  always  in  exact  proportion  to  the  demand. 

If  you  will  examine  the  leg  of  some  fowl,  you  can  see  the 
cartilage  that  covers  the  ends  of  the  bones  at  the  joints,  and 
the  strong  white  ligaments  that  bind  th'e  joints  together. 

The  health*  of  the  bones  d^ends  on  the  proper  nourish- 
ment and  exercise  of  the  body  as  much  as  that  of  any  other 
part.  When  a  child  is  feeble  and  unhealthy,  or  when  it 
grows  up  without  exercise,  the  bones  do  not  become  firm 
and  hard  as  they  are  when  the  body  is  healthfully  devel- 
oped by  exercise.  The  size  as  well  as  the  strength  of  the 
bones,  to  a  certain  extent,  also  depend  upon  exercise  and 
good  health.  So  also  they  depend  on  the  food,  for  fine  flour 
IS  deprived  of  the  materials  that  form  bone,  and  growing 
children  ofleu  have  Weak  bones  from  having  this  for  com- 
mon food. 

The  chief  supporter  of  the  body  is  the  spine,  which  con- 
sists of  twenty-four  small  bones,  interlocked  or  hooked  into 
each  other,  while  between  them  are  elastic  cushions  of  car- 
tilage which  aid  in  preserving  the  upright,  natural  position. 
Fig.  59- shows  three  of  the  spinal  boqes,  hooked  ipto  each 


CLOTHING.  246 

Other,  the  dark  spaces  showing  the  k^.w. 

disks  or  flat  circular  plates  of  carti- 
lage between  them. 

The  spine  is  held  in  its  proper  posi- 
tion, partly  by  the  ribs,  partly  by  mus- 
cles, partly  by  aid  of  the  elastic  disks, 
and  partly  by  the  close  packing  of  the 
,  intestines  in  front  of  it 

The  upper  part  of  the  spine  is  often 
thrown  out  of  its  proper  position  by 
constant  stooping  of  the  head  over 
books  or  work.  This  affects  the  elas- 
tic disks  so  that  they  grow  thick  at  the  back  side  and  thinner 
at  the  front  Ade  by  such  constant  pressure.  The  result  is 
the  awkward  projection  of  the  head  forward  which  is  oflen 
seen  in  schools  and  colleges. 

Another  distortion  of  the  spine  is  produced  by  tight  dress 
around  the  waist.  The  liver  occupies  the  right  side  of  the 
body  and  is  a  solid  mass,  whUe  on  the  other  side  is  the 
larger  part  of  the  stomach,  which  is  oflen  empty.  The  con- 
sequence bf  tight  dress  around  the  waist  is  a  constant  press- 
ure of  the  spine  toward  the  unsupported  part  where  the  * 
stomach  lies.  Thus  the  elastic  disks  again  are  compi*essed, 
till  they  become  thini^er  on  one  side  than  the  other,  and 
harden  into  that  condition.  This  produces  what  is  called 
the  lateral  curvature  of  the  epinCy  making  one  shoulder  high- 
er than  the  other. 

The  evils  consequent  on  modes  of  dress  can  never  be  rem- 
edied until  the  process  oi  breathing  is  understood  and  its  in- 
fluence in  preserving  the  positioti  and  healthful  action  of  the 
pelvic  organs  in  both  sexes,  but  especially  those  of  woman. 
And  this  has  never  been  explained  in  any  of  our  popular 
works  on  physiology. 

In  the  diagram,  Figs.  60,  61,  D  represents  the  diaphragm, 
which  resembles  an  inverted  bowl.  Above  it  are  the  heart 
and  lungs,  marked  H  and  L,  iand  these  are  held  up  by  blood- 
vessels and  other  supports  above  them.  In  this  position  of 
the  diaphragm  the  air-vessels  of  the  lungs  are  only  partially 
filled  with  air,  and  there  are  two  modes  of  increasing  this 


246 


THE  H0X7SSKXSPSB  AKD  HSALTHKXSPXB. 


rig>n.  F\g.€L       sapply.     One  is  by  eAut 

breathing,  when  the  ribs 
are  lift^ed  upward,  and  out- 
wardy  making  a  vacuam  in 
the  air-vessels  of  the  langs. 
At  the  same  time,  the  dia- 
phragm is  flattened  by  this 
expansion  of  the  chest,  as 
shown  by  the  dotted  lines. 
Then  the  air  presses  in 
through  the  nose  and  wind- 
pipe and  fills  the  air-vessels, 
giving  up  its  oxygen  to  the  blood,  and  receiving  carbonic 
acid  and  water,  which  are  expired  when  the  ribs  and  dia- 
phragm return  to  their  natural  position. 

The  other  mode  of  filling  the  lungs  is  by  abdominal 
breathing,  as  illustrated  by  Fig.  61. 

At  D  is  a  side  view  of  the  diaphragm  in  its  natural  position, 
and  the  dotted  lines  show  its  position  when  it  is  contracted 
and  thus  flattened.  When  the  diaphragm  contracts  or  flat- 
tens, a  vacant  space  is  left  above  it,  and  then  the  air  rushes 
in  to  fill  the  vacuum,  as  it  does  when  the  ribs  are  raised. 
This  flattening  of  the  diaphragm  presses  all  the  viscera  be- 
neath it  downward,  and  thus  causes  the  abdomen  to  swell 
outward,  as  is  represented  by  the  dotted  lines  at  A.  Then, 
when  the  diaphragm  returns  to  its  natural  state,  a  vacant 
space  is  made  beneath  it,  and  in  consequence  the  viscera  be- 
low rises  to  fill  the  vacuum,  owing  to  the  pressure  of  the  at- 
mosphere around  the  body ;  for  it  is  said  that  "  nature  ab- 
hors a  vacuum,^  by  which  is  expressed  a  law  of  pneumatics 
in  a  popular  adage.  This  law  is,  that  when  a  vacuum  is 
made  in  either  air  or  water,  the  surrounding  fluid  presses 
from  all  sides,  and  from  the  bottom  as  strongly  as  from 
above.  And  thus,  when  a  vacuum  is  made  by  the  raising  of 
the  diaphragm,  there  is  a  pressure  on  all  sides  of  the  body, 
forcing  the  intestines  upward  to  fill  the  vacuum  thus  made. 
This  enables  us  to.explain  that  most  curious  and  wonderful 
mode  by  which  the  upper  viscera  are  prevented  from  sinking 
on  to  the  lower,  as  secured  chiefly  by  abdominal  breathing. 


CLOTHING.  247 

'  The  pelvis  is  the  bony  basin  sapportiog  the  spine,  to 
which  the  bones  of  the  legs  are  fastened. 

This  basin  holds  the  pelvic  organs,  consisting  in  one  sex 
of  the  bladder  and  rectum,  and  in  the  other  sex  of  the 
bladder,  vagina,  uterus,  and  rectum.  These  pelvic  organs 
must  enlarge  by  use,  and  so  are  placed  in  a  spongy,  yielding 
substance  called  ceUular  membrane.  Now  the  liver,  stomach, 
and  all  the  intestines  below  the  diaphragm,  have  no  support 
from  above^  and  so  the  question  is,  what  sustains  these  or- 
gans, weighing  from  six  to  twelve  pounds,  so  that  they  do 
not  sink  down  on  to  the  delicate  pelvic  organs  below  ?  The 
answer  is,  they  are  held  up  chiefly  by  abdominal  breathing'^ 
as  above  explained.  For  at  every  rise  of  the  diaphragm  a 
vacuum  is  made  above  the  abdominal  viscera,  lifting  them 
upward,  and  this  is  done  at  every  breath,,  and  we  breathe 
about  twenty  times  each  minute. 

By  this  constant  upward  and  downward  movement  of  the 
abdominal  viscera,  the  healthful  and  quickened  circulation 
of  the  blood  in  all  the  myriad  capillaries  of  both  the  ab- 
dominal and  also  the  pelvic  organs  is  promoted ;  for  it  has 
been  shown  on  page  152  how  alternate  compression  and  re- 
laxation'of  the  veins  promotes  quickened  circulation  in  all 
the  veins  and  capillaries.  Of  course,  any  thing  that  im- 
pedes abdominal  breathing  interrupts  this  lifting  operation, 
so  that  the  upper  intestines  are  left  to  gravitate  on  the  pel- 
vic organs.  This  stops  the  healthful  flow  of  blood  through 
-the  capillaries,  and  tends  to  produce  congestion,  inflamma- 
tion, and  cancerous  accumulations  in  the  pelvic  organs. 

All  natural  and  healthful  breathing  unites  both  chest  and 
abdominal  breathing,  as  may  be  seen  by  watching  a  sleeping 
child.  Clothing  resting  on  the  hips  and  abdomen,  unsup- 
ported from  the  shoulders,  is  sure  to  impede  abdominal 
breathing,  and  if  heavy,  to  stop  it  entirely.  In  the  present 
style  of  dress,  when  the  clothing  rests  on  hips  and  abdomen, 
and  is  unsupported  by  shoulder-straps,  through  most  of  the 
day  this  most  healthful  movement  is  interrupted,  and  thus 
the  most  efficient  mode  is  taken  of  bringing  on  terrible  suf- 
fering, both  physical  and  mental. 

Many  al^chool-girl,  whose  waist  was  onginally  of  a  prop- 


248  THE  H0U8BKSEPBB  ANI)  HBALTHSLSBPBB. 

cr  and  healthful  size,  has  gradnally  pressed  the  soft  bones  of 
youth  until  the  lower  ribs,  that  should  rise  and  fall  with  ev- 
ery breath,  become  entirely  unused,  while  heavy  clothing  or 
stiff  corset-bones  stop  the  abdominal  breathing. 

The  pressure  of  the  upper  interior  organs  npon  the  lower 
ones  by  tight  dress,  is  increased  by  the  weight  of  clothing 
resting  on  the  hips  and  abdomen.  Corsets,  as  usually  worn, 
have  no  support  from  the  shoulders,  and  consequently  all 
the  weight  of  dress  resting  upon  or  above  them  presses  upon 
the  hips  and  abdomen,  and  this  in  such  a  way  as  to  throw 
out  of  use,  and  thus  weaken,  the  supporting  muscles  of  the 
abdomen,  and  impede  abdominal  breathing. 

Then  the  stomach  begins  to  draw  from  above,  instead  of 
resting  on  the  viscera  beneath  it.  This  in  some  cases  causes 
dull  and  wandering  pains,  a  sense  of  pulling  *at  the  centre 
of  the  chest,  and  a  drawing  downward  at  the  pit  of  the  stom- 
ach. Then,  as  the  natural  mode  of  support  is  really  ganej 
there  is  what  is  often  called  **a  feeling  of  goneness,^^  This 
is  sometimes  relieved  by  food,  which,  so  long  as  it  remains 
in  a  solid  form,  helps  to  hold  up  the  falling  superstructure. 
This  displacement  of  the  stomach,  liver,  and  spleen  interrupts 
their  healthful  functions,  and  dyspepsia  and  biliary  difficul- 
ties not  unfrequently  are  the  result. 

As  the  stomach  and  its  appendages  fall  downward,  the 
breathing  sometimes  thus  becomes  quicker  and  shorter,  on 
account  of  the  elongated  or  debilitated  condition  of  the  as- 
sisting organs.  Consumption  not  unfrequently  results  from 
this  cause.  . 

The  heqrt  also  feels  the  evil  "Palpitations,"  "flutter- 
ings,''  "  sinking  feelings,"  all  show  that,  in  the  language  of 
Scripture,  "the  heart  trembleth,  and  is  moved  out  of  its 
place." 

Haying  the  weight  of  all  the  unsupported  organs  above 
pressing  them  into  unnatural  and  distorted  positions,  the 
passage  of  the  food  is  interrupted,  and  inflammations,  indu- 
rations, and  constipation  are  the  frequent  result  Dreadful 
ulcers  and  cancers  in  the  bowels  may  be  traced  in  some  in- 
stances to  this  cause. 

Although  these  internal  displacements  are  m(^t  common 


CLOTHDrO.  249 

among  women,  some  foolish  members  of  the  other  sex  are 
adopting  customs  of  dress,  in  girding  the  central  portion  of 
the  body,  that  tend  to  similar  resalts. 

Bat  this  distortion  brings  upon  woman  peculiar  distresses. 
The  pressure  of  the  whole  saperincumbent  mass  on  the  pelvic 
or  lower  organs  indaces  safferings  proportioned  in  acateness 
to  the  extreme  delicacy  and  sensitiveness  of  the  parts  thus 
crashed.  And  the  intimate  connection  of  these  organs  with 
the  brain  and  whole  nervous  system  renders  injuries  thus 
inflicted  the.  causes  of  the  most  extreme  anguish^  both  of 
body  and  mind.  This  evil  is  becoming  so  common,  not  only 
among  married  women  but  among  young  girls,  as  to  be  a 
just  cause  for  universal  alarm.  ' 

How  very  common  these  sufferings  are  few  but  tjie  medi- 
cal profession  can  realize,  because  they  are  troubles  that 
must  be  concealed.  Many  a  woman  is  moving  about  in  un- 
complaining agony  who,  with  any  other  trouble  involving 
equal  suffering,  would  be  on  her  bed  surrounded  by  sympa- 
thizing friends. 

The  terrible  sufferings  that  are  sometimes  thus  indaced 
can  never  be  conceived  of,  or  at  all  appreciated  from  any 
use  of  language.  Nothing  that  the  public  can  be  made  to 
believe  on  this  subject  ^will  ever  equal  the  reality.  Not 
only  mature  persons  and  mothers,  but  fair  young  girls  some- 
times, are  shut  up  for  months  and  years  as  helpless  and 
suffering  invalids  from  this  cause.  This  may  be  found  all 
over  the  land.  And  there  frequently  is  a  horrible  extrem- 
ity of  suffering  in  certain  forms  of  this  evil,  which  no  wom- 
an t)f  feeble  constitution  dressing  in  present  fashion  can 
ever  be  certain  may  not  be  her  doom.  Not  that  in  all  cases 
this  extremity  is  involved,  but  none  can  say  who  will  es- 
cape it. 

In  regard  to  this,  if  one  must  choose  for  a  friend  or  a 
child,  on  the  one  hand,  the  horrible  torments  inflicted  by 
savage  Indians  or  cruel  inquisitors  on  their  victims,  or,  on 
the  other,  the  protracted  agonies  that  result  from  such  de- 
formities and  displacements,  sometimes  the  former  would  be 
a  merciful  exchange.  And  yet  this  is  the  fate  that  is  coming 
to  meet  the  young  as  well  as  the  mature  ill  every  direction. 

II* 


260  THB  HOUSBKSBPBB  iJSD  HKU/THKEEPXK. 

And  tender  parents  are  nnconscionBly  leading  their  lovely 
and  hapless  danghters  to  this  awful  doom. 

There  is  no  excitement  of  the  imagination  in  what  is  here 
indicated.  If  the  facts  and  details  could  be  presented,  they 
Tould  send  a  groan  of  terror  all  over  the  land.  For  it  is 
not  one  class,  or  one  section,  that  is  endangered.  In  every 
part  of  onrcoontry  the  evil  is  progresdng. 

And,  as  if  these  dreadful  ills  vere  not  enongh,  there  have 
beeb  added  methods  of  medical  treatment  at  once  useless, 
tortoring  to  the  mind,  and  involving  great  liability  to  im- 
moralities.* 

In  hope  of  abating  these  evils,  drawings  are  given  (Fig.  62 

and  Fig.  68)  of  the  front  and  back  of  a  jacket  that  will  pre- 

vis-  o-  Tls.  <B. 


serve  the  advanti^es  of  the  corset  without  its  evils.  This 
jacket  may  at  first  be  fitted  to  the  figure  with  corsets  nn* 
demeath  it,  jnst  like  the  waist  of  a  dress.  Then  delicate 
whalebones  can  be  nsed  to  Btifiea  the  jacket,  bo  that  it  will 
take  the  proper  shape,  when  the  corset  may  be  dispensed 
with.  The  buttons  below  are  to  hold  all  articles  of  dress 
below  the  waist  by  button-holes.  By  this  method  the  bust 
is  supported  as  well  as  by  corsets,  white  the  shoulders  sup- 
.  port  from  above,  as  they  shonld  do,  the  weight  of  the  dress 
below.  No  stiff  bone  shonld  be  allowed  to  press  in  front, 
and  the  jacket  shonld  be  so  loose  that  a  full  breath  can  be 
inspired  with  ease  while  in  a  sitting  position. 

*  Some  extncti  from  medical  vritan  in  Note  A  will  give  the  Tiewi  of  the 
moit  ropected  pbjraidaiu  mil  om  the  laud  on  this  point. 


CLOTHING.  251 

The  proper  way  to  dress  a  young  girl  is  to  have  a  cotton 
or  flannel  closerfitting  jacket  next  the  body,  to  which  the 
drawers  should  be  buttoned.  Over  this  place  the  chemise; 
and  over  that,  such  a  jacket  as  the  one  here  drawn,  to  which 
should  be  buttoned  the  hoops  and  other  skirts.  Thus  every 
article  of  dress  will  be  supported  by  the  shoulders.  The 
sleeves  of  the  jacket  can  be  omitted,  and  in  that  case  a 
Btrong  lining,  and  also  a  tape  bindbg,  must  surround  the 
arm-hole,  which  should  be  loose. 

It  is  hoped  that  increase  of  intelligence  and  moral  power 
among  mothers,  and  a  combination  among  them  to  regulate 
fashions,  may  banish  the  pernicious  practices  that  have  pre- 
vailed. If  a  schoolgirl  dress  without  cc^sets  and  without 
tight  belts  could  be  established  as  a  fashion,  it  would  be  one 
step  gained  in  the  right  direction.  Then,  if  mothers  could 
secure  to  their  daughters  daily  domestic  exercise  in  cham- 
bers, eating-rooms,  and  parlors  in  loose  dresses,  a  still  further 
advance  would  be  secured. 

'  A  friend  of  the  writer  informs  her  that  her  daughter  had 
her  wedding  outfit  made  up  by  a  fashionable  milliner  in 
Paris,  and  every  dress*  was  beautifully  fitted  to  the  form, 
and  yet  was  not  compressing  to  any  part.  This  was  done 
too  without  the  use  of  corsets,  the  stiffening  being  delicate 
and  yielding  whaleboifes. 

Not  only  parents  but  all  having  the  cara  of  young  girls, 
especially  those  at  boarding-schools,  have  a  fearful  responsi- 
bility resting  upon  them  in  regard  to  this  important  duty. 

In  regard  to  the  dressing  of  young  children,  much  discre- 
tion is  needed  to  adapt  dress  to  circumstances  and  peculiar 
constitutions.  The  leading  fact  must  be  borne  in  mind,  that 
the  skin  is  made  strong  and  healthful  by  exposure  to  light 
and  pure  air,  while  cold  air,  if  not  excessive,  has  a  tonic  in- 
fluence. If  the  skin  of  infants  is  rubbed  with  the  hand  till 
red  with  blood,  and  then  exposed  naked  to  sun  and  air  in  a 
well-ventilated  room,  it  will  be  favorable  to  health. 

There  is  a  constitutional  difference  in  the  skin  of  different 
children  in  regard  to  retaining  the  animal  heat  manufactured 
within,  so  that  some  need  more  clothing  than  others  for 
comfort.    Nature  is  a  safe  guide  to  a  careful  nurse  and 


252      THB  HOUSBKBEPBB  AKV   HBALTHKBEPBB. 

mother,  and  will  {Qdicate,  by  the  looks  and  actions  oT  a  child, 
when  more  clpthing  is  needful.  As  a  general  rule,  it  is  safe 
for  a  healthful  child  to  wear  as  little  clothing  as  suffices  to 
keep  it  from  complaining  of  cold.  Fifty  years  ago,  it  was 
not  common  for  children  to  wear  as  much  under-clothing  as 
they  now  do.  The  writer  well  remembers  how  girls,  though 
not  of  strong  constitutions,  used  to  play  for  hours  in  the 
snow-drifts  without  the  protection  of  drawers,  kept  warm 
by  exercise  and  occasional  runs  to  an  open  fire.  And  multi- 
tudes of  children  grew  to  vigorous  maturity  through  similar 
exposures  to  cold-air  baths,  and  without  the  frequent  colds 
and  sicknesses  so  common  among  children  of  the  present 
day,  who  are  more  carefully  housed  and  warmly  dressed. 
But  care  was  taken  that  the  feet  should  be  kept  dry  and 
warmly  clad,  because,  circulation  being  feebler  in  the  ex- 
tremities, this  precaution  was  important. 

It  must  also  be  considered  that  age  brings  with  it  decrease 
in  vigor  of  circulation,  and  diminished  generation  of  heat, 
so  that  more  w&'rmth  of  air  and  clothing  is  needed  at  an  ad- 
vanced period  of  life  than  is  suitable  for  the  young. 

These  are  the  general  principles  which  must  be  applied 
with  modification  to  each  individual  case.  A  child  of  deli- 
cate .  constitution  must  have  more  careful  protection  from 
cold  air  than  is  desirable  for  one  more  vigorous,  while  the 
leading  general  principle  is  retained  that  cold  air  is  a  health- 
ful tonic  for  the  skin  whenever  it  does  not  produce  an  un- 
comfortable chilliness. 

Sometimes  it  is  asked.  Why  are  women,  especially  young 
giris,  so  much  more  delicate  and  sickly  than  in  former  days? 
The  true  reply  would  be,  it  is  because  parents  and  teachers 
are  doing  every  thing. they  can  do  to  produce  such  mischiefs. 

Sleeping  in  un ventilated  chambers ;  living  in  school-rooms 
and  parlors  heated  to  excess,  and  charged  with  poisonous 
ga$es ;:  exposed  to  sudden  variations  of  teoaperature  from 
mismanagement ;  eating  unhealthful  food  at  irregular  hours 
and  to  a  dangerous  excess;  supplied  with  nnhealthful  con- 
fectionary to  eat  at  any  hour;  indulging  in  exciting  amuse- 
ments, with  late  hours  for  sleep;  the  brain  stimulated  by  a 
multitude  of  school  duties  and  studies  unrelieved  by  suffi- 


CLOTHINO.       <  253 

cient  sleep  or  by  muscular  exercise;  the  dress^ contrived  to 
impede  vital  functions,  so  as  to  force  the  upper  organs  on  to 
the  lower,  generating  the  most  cruel  displacements  and  men- 
tal and  bodily  diseases;  overheating  the  parts  most  injured 
by  such  treatment,  and  exposing  the  parts  most  important 
to  keep  warm ;  compressing  feet  and  ankles  so  as  to  impede 
circulation,  with  high  heels  throwing  all  the  muscles  out  of 
natural  play,  so  as  to  increase  all  the  dangerous  tendencies 
to  internal  displacement;  these  are  only  one  portion  of  the 
many  contrivances  adopted  or  allowed  by  parents  and  teach- 
ers to  destroy  the  health  of  women  and  young  girls. 


254      THB  HOUSBKEEPEB  AND  HSALTHKSSPEB. 


cHAn^R  xn. 

SABLT  RISING. 

Thsbs  is  no  practice  which  has  been  more  extensively 
eulogized  in  all  ages  than  early  rising ;  and  this  universal 
impression  is  an  indication  that  it  is  founded  on  true  philoso- 
phy. For  it  is  rarely  the  case  that  the  common  sense  of 
mankind  fastens  on  a  practice  as  really  beneficial,  especially 
one  that  demands  self-denial,  without  some  substantial 
reason. 

This  practice,  which  may  justly  be  called  a  domestic  vir- 
tue, is  one  which  has  a  peculiar  claim  to  be  styled  American 
and  democratic.  The  distinctive  mark  of  aristocratic  na- 
tions is  a  disregard  of  the  great  mass,  and  a  disproportionate 
regard  for  the  interests  of  certain  privileged  orders.  All 
the  customs  and  habits  of  such  a  nation  are,  to  a  greater  or 
less  extent,  regulated  by  this  principle.  Now  the  mass  of 
any  nation  must  always  consist  of  persons  who  labor  at  oc- 
cupations which  demand  the  light  of  day.  But  in  aristo- 
ci*atic  countries,  especially  in  England,  labor  is  regarded  as 
the  mark  of  the  lower  classes,  and  indolence  is  considered  as 
one  mark  of  a  gentleman.  This  impression  has  gradually 
and  imperceptibly,  to  a  great  extent,  regulated  their  cus- 
toms, so  that,  even  in  their  hours  of  meals  and  repose,  the 
higher  orders  aim  at  being  different  and  distinct  from  those 
who,  by  laborious  pursuits,  are  placed  below  them.  From 
this  circumstance,  while  the  lower  orders  labor  by  day  and 
sleep  at  night,  the  rich,  the  noble,  and  the  honored  sleep  by 
day,  and  follow  their  pursuits  and  pleasures  by  night. 

It  will  be  found  that  the  aristocracy  of  London  breakfast 
near  midday,  dine  after  dark,  visit  and  go  to  Parlia'tnent  be- 
tween ten  and  twelve  at  night,  and  retire  to  sleep  toward 
morning.  In  consequence  of  this,  the  subordinate  classes 
who  aim  at  gentility  gradually  fall  into  the  same  practice. 
The  Influence  of  this  custom  extends  across  the  ocean,  an3 


SABtT  BISINp.     .  255 

• 

here,  in  this  democratic  land,  we  find  many  who  measure 
their  grade  of  gentility  by  the  late  hoar  at  which  they  ar- 
rive at  a  party.  And  this  aristocratic  folly  is  growing  upon 
us,  so  that  throughout  the  nation  the  houra  for  visiting  and 
retiring  are  constantly  becoming  later,  while  the  hours  for 
rising  correspond  in  lateness. 

The  question,  then,  is  one  which  appeals  to  American 
women  as  a  matter  of  patriotism,  and  as  having  a  bearing 
on  those  great  principles  of  democracy  which  we  conceive' 
to  be  equally  the  principles  of  Christianity.  Shall  we  form 
our  customs  on  the  assumption  that  labor  is  degrading  and 
indolence  genteel  ?  Shall  we  assume,  by  our  practice,  that 
the  interests  of  the  great  mass,  are  to  be  sacrificed  for  the 
pleasures  and  honors  of  a  privileged  few?  Shall  we  ape 
the  customs  of  aristocratic  lands,  in  those  very  practices 
which  result  irbm  principles  and  institutions  that  we  con- 
demn ?  Shall  we  not  rather  take  the  place  to  which  we  are 
entitled,  as  the  leaders,  rather  than  the  followers,  in  the  cus- 
toms of  society,  turn  back  the  tide  of  aristocratic  inroads, 
and  carry  through  the  whole,  not  only  of  civil  and  political 
but  of  social  and  domestic  life,  the  true  principles  of  demo- 
cratic freedom  and  equality  ?  The  following  considerations 
may  serve  to  strengthen  an  affirmative  decision : 

The  first  relates  to  the  health  of  a  family.  It  is  a  uni- 
versal law  of  physiology,  that  all  living  things  flourish  best 
in  the  light.  Vegetables,  in  a  dark  cellar,  grow  pale  and 
spindling.  Children  brought  up  in  mines  are  always  wan 
and  stunted,  while  men  become  pale  and  cadaverous  who 
live  under  ground.  This  indicates  the  folly  of  losing  the 
genial  influence  which  the  light  of  day  produces  on  all  ani- 
mated creation. 

Sir  James  Wylie,  of  the  Russian  imperial  service,  states 
that  in  the  soldiers'  barracks  three  times  as  many  were 
taken  sick  on  the  shaded  side  as  on  the  sunny  side ;  though 
both  sides  communicated,  and  discipline,  diet,  and  treatment 
were  the  same.  The  eminent  French  surgeon,  Dupuytren, 
cured  a  lady,  whose  complicated  diseases  bafiled  for  years 
his  own  and  all  other  medical  skill,  by  taking  her  from  a 
dark  room  to  an  abundance  of  daylight. 


266  THE   HOUSEKE^PEB  AND  HBALTHKEEPBR. 

Florence  Nightingale  writes :  "  Second  only  to  fresh  air 
in  importance  for  the  sick  is  light.  Not  only  daylight  bat 
direct  sunlight  is  necessary  to  speedy  recovery,  except  in  a 
small  number  of  cases.  Instances,  almost  endless,  could  be 
given  where,  in  dark  wards,  or  wards  with  only  northern  ex- 
posure, or  wards  with  boiTOwed  light,  even  when  properly 
ventilated,  the  sick  could  not  be,  by  any  means,  made  speed- 
ily to  recover.'* 

In  the  prevalence  of  cholera,  it  was  invariably  the  case 
that  deaths  were  more  numerous  in  shaded  streets,  or  in 
houses  having  only  northern  exposui^es,  than  in  those  having 
sunlight  Several  physicians  have  stated  to  the  writer  that, 
in  sunny  exposures,  women  after  childbirth  gained  strength 
much  faster  than  those  excluded  from  sunlight  In  the 
writer's  experience,  great  nervous  debility  has  been  always 
immediately  lessened  by  sitting  in  the  sun,  and  still  more 
by  Jying  on  the  earth  and  in  open  air,  a  blanket  beneath, 
and  head  and  eyes  protected,  under  the  direct  rays  of  the 
sun. 

Some  facts  in  physiology  and  natural  philosophy  have  a 
bearing  on  this  subject*  It  seems  to  be  settled  that  the  red 
color  of  blood  is  owing  to  iron  contained  ip  the  red  blood- 
cells,  while  it  is  established  as  a  fact  that  the  sun's  rays  are 
metallic,  having  **  vapor  of  iron  "  as  one  element  .  It  is  also 
true  that  want  of  light  causes  a  diminution  of  the  red  and 
an  increase  of  the  imperfect  white  blood-cells,  iftnd  that  this 
sometimes  results  in  a  disease  called  Zetiooemta,  while  all 
who  live  in  the  dark  have  pale  and  waxy  skins,  and  flabby, 
weak  ninscles.  Thus  it  would  seem  that  it  is  the  sun  that 
imparts  the  iron  and  color  to  the  blood.  These  things  be- 
ing so,  the  customs  of  society  that  bring  sleeping  hours  into 
daylight,  and  working  and  study  hours  into  the  night,  are 
direct  violations  of  the  law^  of  health.  The  laws  of  health 
are  the  laws  of  God,  and  '^sin  is  the  trangressioii  of  law." 

To  this,  we  must  add  the  great  neglect  of  economy  as  well 
as  health  in .  substituting  unhealthful  gas-light  and  poison- 
ous, anthracite  warmth,  for  the  life-giving  light  and  warmth 
of  the  sun.  Millions  and  niillions  would  be  saved  to  t^is 
nation  in  fuel  and  light,  as  well  as  in  health,  by  returning  to' 


SASLY  BI8INO.  267 

I 

the  good  old  ways  of  our  forefathers,  to  rise  with  the  sun, 
and  retire  to  rest  "  when  the  bell  rings  for  nine  o'clock.** 

The  observations  of  medical  men,  whose  inquiries  have 
been  directed  to  this  point,  have  decided  that  from  six  to 
eight  hours  is  the  amount  of  sleep  demanded  by  persons  in 
health.  Some  constitutions  require  as  much  as  eight,  and 
others  no  more  than  six  hours  of  repose.  But  eight  hours 
is  the  inaximam  for  all  persons  in  ordinary  health,  with  or- 
dinary occupations.  In  cases  of  extra  physical  exertions,  or 
the  debility  of  disease,  or  a  decayed  constitution,  more  than 
this  is  required.  Let  eight  hours,  then,  be  regarded  as  the 
ordinary  period  required  for  sleep  by  an  industrious  people 
like  the  Americans. 

it  thus  appears  that  the  laws  of  our  political  condition, 
the  laws  of  the  natural  world,  and  the  constitution  of  our 
bodies,  alike  demand  that  we  rise  with  the  light  of  day  to 
prosecute  our  employments,  and  that  we  retire  in  time  for 
the  requisite  amount  of  sleep. 

In  regard  to  the  effects  of  protracting  the  time  spent  in 
repose,  many  extensive  and  satisfactory  investigations  have 
been  made.  It  has  been  shown  that  during  sleep  the  body 
perspires  most  freely,  while  yet  neither  food  nor  exercise  are 
ministering  to  its  wants.  Of  course,  if  we  continue  our 
slumbers  beyond  the  time  required  to  restore  the  body  to 
its  usual  vigor,  thiere  is  an  nnperceived  undermining  of  the 
constitution  by  this  protracted  and  debilitating  exhalation. 
This  process,  in  a  course  of  years,  renders  the  body  delicate 
and  less  able  to  withstand  disease,  and  in  the  result  shortens 
life.  Sir  John  Sinclair,  who  has  written  a  large  work  on  the 
Causes  of  Longevity,  states,  as  one  result  of  his  extensive 
investigations,  that  he  has  never  yet  heard  or  read  of  a  sin- 
gle case  of  great  longevity  where  the  individual  was  not  an 
early  riser.  He  says  that  he  has  found  cases  in  which  the 
individual  has  violated  some  one  of  all  the  other  laws  of 
health,  and  yet  lived  to  great  age;  but  never  a  single  in- 
stance in  which  any  constitution  has  withstood  that  under- 
mining consequent  on  protracting  the  hours  of  repose  be- 
yond the  demands  of  the  systeip. 

Another  reason  for  early  rising  is,  that  it  is  indispensable 


258      THE  HOUSEKSSPSR  AND  HSALTHKEEPES. 

to  a  systematio  and  well-regulated  family.  At  whatever 
hoar  the  parents  retire,  children  and  domestics,  wearied  by 
play  or  labor,  must  retire  early.  Children  usually  awake 
with  the  dawn  of  light  and  commence  their  play,  while  do- 
mestics usually  prefer  the  freshness  of  morning  for  their  la- 
bors. If,  then,  the  parents  rise  at  a  late  hour,  they  either 
induce  a  habit  of  protracting  sleep  in  their  children  and 
domestics,  or  else  the  family  are  up,  and  at  their  pursuits, 
while  their  supervisors  are  in  bed. 

Any  woman  who  asserts  that  her  children  and  domestics, 
in  the  first  hours  of  day,  when  their  spirits  are  freshest,  will 
be  as  well  regulated  without  her  presence  as  with  it,  confess- 
es that  which  surely  is  little  for  her  credit.  It  is  believed 
that  any  candid  woman,  whatever  may  be  her  excuse  for 
late  rising,  will  concede  that  if  she  could  rise  early  it  would 
be  for  the  advantage  of  her  family.  A  late  breakfast  puts 
back  the  work,'  through  the  whole  day,  for .  every  member 
of  a  family;  and  if  the  parents  thus  occasion  the  loss  of  an 
hour  or  two  to  each  individual,  who,  but  for  their  delay  in 
the  morning,  would  be  usefully  employed,  they  alone  are 
responsible  for  all  this  waste  of  time. 

But  the  practice  of  early  rising  has  a  relation  to  the  gen- 
eral interests  of  the  social  community,  as  well  as  to  that  of 
each  distinct  family.  AH  that  great  portion  of  the  commu- 
munity  who  are  employed  in  business  and  labor  find  it  need- 
ful to  rise  early ;  and  all  their  hours  of  meals,  and  their  ap- 
pointments for  business  or  pleasure,  must  be  accommodated 
to  these  arrangements.  Now,  if  a  small  portion  of  the  com- 
munity establish  very  different  hours,  it  makes  a*  kind  of 
jostling  in  all  the  concerns  and  interests  of  society.  The 
various  appointments  for  the  public,  such  as  meetings, 
schools,  and  business  hours,  must  be  accommodated  to  the 
mass,  and  not  to  individuals.  The  few,  then,  who  establish 
domestic  habits  at  variance  with  the  majority,  are  either 
constantly  interrupted  in  their  own  arrangements,  or  else  are 
interfering  with  the  rights  and  interests  of  others.  This  is 
exemplified  in  the  case  of  schools.  In  families  where  late 
rising  is  practiced,  either  hurry,  irregularity,  and  neglect  are 
engendered  in  the  family,  or  else  the  interests  of  the  school, 


BARLT  SI8IK.O. 


259 


.and  thus  of  the  community,  are  sacrificed.-  In  this  and 
many  other  matters,  it  can  be  shown  that  the  well-beine  of 
the  bulk  of  the  people  is,  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  impair- 
ed by  this  self-indulgent  practice.  Let  any  teacher  select 
the  unpunctual  scholars — a  class  who  most  seriously- interfere 
with  the  interests  of  the  school — and  let  men  of  business  se- 
lect those  who  cause  them  most  waste  of  time  and  vexation 
by  tinpuuctuality ;  and  it  will  b^  found  that  they  are  gener- 
ally among  the  late  risers,  and  rarely  among  those  who  rise 
early.  Thus,  late  rising  not  only  injures  the  person  and 
family  which  indulge  in  it,  but  interferes  with  the  rights 
and  convenience  of  the  community ;  while  early  rising  im- 
parts corresponding  benefits  of  health,  promptitude,  vigor  of 
action,  economy  of  time,  and  general  effectiveness,  both  to 
the  individuals  who  practice  it  and  to  the  families  and  com- 
munity of  which  they  are  a  part. 


260     .  THE  H6USEK£SP£B  AKD  HSALTHKSSPSB. 


CHAPTER  Xm. 

DOMESTIC  KANNEBS. 

Good  manners  are  th^  expressions  of  benevolence  in 
personal  intercoarae,  by  which  we  endeavor  to  promote  the 
comfort  and  enjoyment  of  others^and  to  avoid  all  that  gives 
needless  uneasiness.  It  is  the  exterior  exhibition  of  the  di- 
vine precept,  which  requires  us  to  do  to  others  as  we  would 
that  they  should  do  to  us.  It  is  saying,  by  our  deportment, 
to  all  around,  that  we  consider  their  feelings,  tastes,  and 
conveniences,  as  equal  in  value  to  our  own. 

Good  manners  lead  us  to  avoid  all  practices  which  offend 
the  taste  of  others ;  all  unnecessary  violations  of  the  con- 
ventional rules  of  propriety ;  all  rude  and  disrespectful  lan- 
guage and  deportment;  and  all  remarks  which  would  tend 
to  wound  the  feelings  of  others. 

Tbete  is  a  serious  defect  in  the  manners  of  the  American 
people,  especially  among  the  descendants  of  the  Puritan 
settlera  of  New  England,  which  can  never  be  efficiently 
remedied,  except  in  the  domestic  circle,  and  during  early 
life.  It  is  a  deficiency  in  the  free  expression  of -kindly  feel- 
ings and  sympathetic  emotions,  and  a  want  of  courtesy  in 
deportment.  The  causes  which  have  led  to  this  result  may 
easily  be  traced. 

The  forefathers  of  this  nation,  to  a  wide  extent,  were  men 
who  were  driven  from  their  native  land  by  laws  and  cus- 
toms which  they  believed  to  be  opposed  both  to  civil  and 
religious  freedom.  The  sufferings  they  were  called  to  en- 
dure, the  subduing  of  those  gentler  feelings  which  bind  us 
to  country,  kindred, and  home;  and  the  constant  subordina- 
tion of  the  passions  to  stem  principle,  induced  characters  of 
great  firmness  and  self-control.  They  gave  up  the  comforts 
and  refinements  of  a  civilized  country,  and  came  as  pilgrims 
to  a  hard  soil,  a  cold  clime,  and  a  heathen  shore.  They 
were   continually  forced  to   encounter   danger,  privation, 


DOMSSnC  MAimXBS.  261 

sickness/ lonelinesS)  and  death;  and  all  these  their  religion 
taught  them  to  meet  with  calmness,  fortitude,  and  submis- 
sion. And  thus  it  became  the  custom  and  habit  of  the 
whole  mass  to  repress  rather  than  to  encourage  the  expres- 
sion of  feeling. 

Persons  who  are  called  to  constant  and  protracted  suffer- 
ing and  privation  are  forced  to  subdue  and  conceal  emotion ; 
fbr  the  free  expression  of  it  would  double  their  own  suffer- 
ing, and  increase  the  sufferings  of  others.  Those  only  who 
are  free  from  care  and  anxiety,  and  whose  minds  are  mainly 
occupied  by  cheerful  emotions,  are  at  full  liberty  to  unveil  . 
their  feelings. 

It  was  under  such  stem  and  rigorous  discipline  that  the 
first  children  in  New-England  were  reared;  and  the  man- 
ners and  habits  of  parents  are  usually  to  a  great  extent 
transmitted  to  children.  Thus  it  comes  to  pass  that  the 
descendants  of  the  Puritans,  now  scattered  over  every  part 
of  the  nation,  are  predisposed  to  conceal  the  gentler  emo- 
tions, while  their  manners  are  calm,  decided,  and  cold,  rather 
than  free  and  impulsive.  Of  course,  there  are  very  many 
exceptions  to  these  predominating  characteristica 

Other  causes,  to  which  we  may  attribute  a  general  want 
of  courtesy  in  manners,  are  certain  incidental  results  of  our 
domestic  institutions.  Our  ancestors  and  their  descendants 
have  constantly  been  combating  the  aristocratic  principle, 
which  would  exalt  one  class  of  men  at  the  expense  of  an- 
other. They  have  had  to  contend  with  this  principle,  not 
only  in  civil  but  in  social  life.  Almost  every  American,  in 
his  own  person  as  well  as  in  behalf  of  his  class,  has  had  to 
assume  and  defend  the  main  principle  of  democracy — that 
every  man's  feelings  and  interests  are  equal  in  value  to 
those  of  every  other  man.  But,  in  doing  this,  there  has 
been  some  want  of  clear  discrimination.  Because  claims 
based  on  distinctions  of  mere  birth,  fortune,  or  position 
were  found  to  be  injurious,  many  have  gone  to  the  extreme 
of  inferring  that  all  distinctions  involving,  subordinations  are 
useless.  Such  would  wrongfully  regard  children  as  equals 
to  parents,  pupils  to  teachers,  domestics  to  their  employers, 
and  subjects  to  magistrates — and  that,  too,  in  all  respects. 


262  '    THE  HOUSBKBSPSB  AKB  HXALTHKBBPSB. 

The  fact  that  certain  grades  of  snperiority  and  subordina- 
tion are  needful,  both  for  individual  and  public  benefit,  has 
not  been  clearly  discerned ;  and  there  has  been  a  gx^ual 
tendency  to  an  extreme  of  the  opposite  view  which  has  sen- 
sibly afiected  our  manners.  All  the  proprieties  and  courte- 
sies which  depend  on  the  recognition  of  the  relative  duties  of 
superior  and  subordinate  have  been  warred  upon ;  and  thus 
we  see,  to  an  increasing  extent,  disrespectful  treatment  of 
parents,  by  children ;  of  teachers,  by  pupils ;  of  employers, 
by  domestics ;  and  of  the  aged,  by  the  young.  In  all  classes 
.  and  circles  there  is  a  gradual  decay  in  courtesy  of  address. 

In  cases,  too,  where  kindnejss  is  rendered,  it  is  often  ac- 
companied with  a  cold,  unsympathizing  manner,  which 
greatly  lessens  its  value ;  while  kindness  or  politeness  is  re- 
ceived in  a  similar  style  of  coolness,  as  if  it  were  but  the 
payment  of  a  just  due. 

It  is  owing  to  these  causes  that^the  American  people, 
especially  the  descendants  of  the  Puritans,  do  not  do  them- 
selves justice.  For,  while  those  who  are  near  enough  to 
learn  their  real  character  and  feelings  can  discern  the  most 
generous  impulses  and  the  most  kindly  sympathies,  they 
are  often  so  veiled  behind  a  composed  and  indifferent  de- 
meanor as  to  be  almost  entirely  concealed  from  strangers. 

These  defects  in  our  national  manners  it  especially  falls 
to  the  care  of  mothers,  and  all  who  have  charge  of  tha 
young,  to  rectify ;  and  if  they  seriously  undertake  the  mat- 
ter, and  wisely  adapt  means  to  ends,  these  defects  will  be 
remedied.  With  reference  to  this  object,  the  following 
ideas  are  suggested : 

The  law  of  Christianity  and  of  democracy,  which  teaches 
that  all  men  are  bom  equal  in  rights,  and  that  their  interests 
and  feelings  should  be  regarded  as  of  equal  value,  seems  to 
be  adopted  in  aristocratic  circles,  with  exclusive  reference 
to  the  class  in  which  the  individual  moves.  ,The  courtly 
gentleman  iaddresses  all  of  his^owu  class  with  politeness  and 
rdspect,  and  in  all  his  actions  seems  to  allow  that  the  fe'el-^ 
ings  and  convenience  of  these  others  are  to  be  regarded  the 
same  as  his  own.  But  his  demeanor  to  those  of  inferior 
station  is  not  based  on  the  ^ame  rule. 


DOMX8IIC  MANNXB8.  263 

AmoDg  those  who  make  up  aristocratic  circles,  such  as 
are  above  them  are  deemed  of  superior,  and  such  as  are  be- 
low of  inferior,  value.  Thus,  if  a  young,  ignorant,  and  vi- 
cious coxcomb  happens  to  have  been  bom  a  lord^  the  aged, 
the  virtuous,  the  learned,  and  the  well-bred  of  another  class 
nrast  give  his  convenience  the  precedence,  and  must  address 
him  in  terms  of  respect.  So,  sometimes,  when  a  man  of 
^ noble  birth''  is  thrown  among  the  lower  classes,  he  de- 
means himself  in  a  style  which,  to  persons  of  his  own  class, 
would  be  deemed  the  height  of  assumption  and  rudeness. 

Now,  the  principles  of  democracy  require  that  thci  same 
courtesy  which  we  accord  to  our  own  circle  shall  be  extend- 
ed to  every  class  and  condition ;  and  that  distinctions  of  su- 
periority and  subordination  shall  depend,  not  on  accidents 
of  birth,  fortune,  or  occupation,  but  solely  on  those  mutual 
relations  which  the  good  of  all  classes  equally  require.  The 
distinctions  demanded  in  a  democratic  state  are  simply 
those  which  result  from  relations  that  are  common  to  every 
class,  tod  are  for  the  benefit  of  all. 

It  is  for  the  benefit  of  every  class  that  children  be  subor- 
dinate to  parents,  pupils  to  teachers,  the  employed  to  their 
employers,  and  subjects  to  magistrates.  In  addition  to  this, 
it  is  for  the  general  well-being  that  the  comfort  or  conven- 
ience of  the  delicate  and  feeble  should  be  preferred  to  that 
of  the  strong  and  healthy,  who  would  suffer  less  by  any  dep- 
rivation ;  that  precedence  should  be  given  to  their  elders 
by  the  young;  and  that  reverence  should  be  given  to  the 
hoary  head. 

The  rules  of  good-breeding,  in  a  democratic  state,  must  be 
founded  on  these  principles.  It  is  indeed  assumed  that  the 
value  of  the  happiness  of  each  individual  is  the  same  as  that 
of  every  other ;  but  as  there  must  be  occasions  where  there 
are  advantages  which  all  can  not  enjoy,  there  must  be 
general  rules  for  regulating  a  selection.  Otherwise,  there 
would  be  constant  scrambling  among  those  of  equal  claims, 
and  brute  force  must  be  the  final  resort ;  in  which  case  the 
strongest  would  have  the  best  of  every  thing.  The  demo- 
cratic rule,  then,  is,  that  superior;^  in  age,  station,  or  office, 
have  precedence  of  subordinates;   age  and  feebleness,  of 


264      THK  HOmSEKSEPSB  AND  HXALTHKESPSB. 

yoQth  and  strength ;  and  the  feebler  sex,  of  more  vigoront. 
man.* 

There  is,  also,  a  style  of  deportment  and  address  which  is 
appropriate  to  these  different  relifttions.  It  is  suitable  for  a 
superior  to  secure  compliance  with  his  wishes  from  those 
subordinate  to  him  by  commands ;  but  a  subordinate  must 
secure  compliance  with  his  wishes  from  a  superior  by  re- 
quest (Although  the  kind  and  considerate  manner  to  sub- 
ordinates will  always  be  found  the  most  effective  as  well  as 
the  pleasantest,  by  those  in  superior  station.)  It  is  suitable 
for  a  parent,  teacher,  or  employer,  to  admonish  for  neglect 
of  duty ;  but  not  for  an  inferior  tp  adopt  such  a  course  to- 
ward a  superior.  It  is  suitable  for  a  superior  to  take  prece- 
dence of  a  subordinate  without  any  remark ;  but  not*  for 
an  inferior  without  previously  asking  leave,  or  offering  an 
apology.  It  is  proper  for  a  superior  to  use  language  and 
manners  of  freedom  and  familiarity  which  would  be  improp- 
er from  a  subordinate  to  a  superior. 

The  want  of  due  regard  to  these  proprieties  occasions  s 
great  defect  in  American  manners.  It  is  very  common  to 
hear  children  talk  to  their  parents  in  a  style  proper  only 
between  companions  and  equals ;  so,  also,  the  young  address 
their  elders ;  those  employed,  their  employers ;  and  domes- 
tics, the  members  of  the  family  and  their  visitors  in  a  style 
which  is  inappropriate  to  their  relative  positions.  But  (Court- 
eous address  is  required  not  merely  toward  superiors ;  ev- 
ery person  desires  to  be  thus  treated,  and  therefore  the  law 
of  benevolence  demands  such  demeanor  toward  all  whom  we 
meet  in  the  social  intercourse  of  life.  "  Be  ye  courteous,** 
is  the  direction  of  the  apostle  in  reference  to  our  treatment 
of  aU. 

Good  manners  can  be  successfully  cultivated  only  in  early 
life  and  in  the  domestic  circle.  There  is  nothing  which  de- 
pends BO  much  upon  habit  as  the  constantly  recurring  pro- 

*  The  aDiversal  practice  of  this  nation,  in  thos  giving  precedence  to  wom- 
an has  been  severely  commented  on  by  foreigners,  and  by  some  who  would 
transfer  all  the  business  of  the  other  sex  to  women,  and  then  have  them 
treated  like  men.  Bnt  we  hope  this  evidence  of  onr  superior  civilization  and 
Christianity  may  increase. rather  than  diminish. 


DOMESTIC  MANNXB8.  265 

prieties  of  good-breeding ;  and  if  a  child  grows  up  without 
forming  such  habits,  it  is  very  rarely  the  case  that  they  can 
be  formed  at  a  later  period.  The  feeling  that  it  is  of  little 
consequence  how  we  behave  at  home  if  we  conduct  ourselves 
properly  abroad,  is  a  very  fallacious  one.  Persons  who  are 
careless  and  ill-bred  at  home  may  imagine  that  they  can  as- 
sume good  manners  abroad ;  but  they  mistake.  Fixed  hab- 
its of  tone,  manner,  language,  and  movements  can  not  be 
suddenly  altered ;  and  those  who  are  ill-bred  at  home,  even 
when  they  try  to  hide  their  bad  habits,  are  sure  to  violate' 
many  of  the  obvious  rules  of  propriety,  and  yet  be  uncon- 
scious of  it. 

And  there  is  nothing  which  would  so  effectually  remove 
prejudice  against  our  democratic  institutions  as  the  general 
cultivation  of  good-breeding  in  the  domestic  circle.  Good 
manners  are  the  eztenor  of  benevolence,  the  minute  and  con- 
stant exhibitions  of  **  peace  and  good-will ;''  and  the  nation, 
as  well  as  the  individual,  which  most  excels  in  the  external 
demonstration,  as  well  as  the  internal  principle,  will  be  most 
respected  and  beloved. 

It  is  only  the  training  of  the  family  state  according  to  its 
true  end  and  aim  that  is  to  secure  to  woman  her  true  posi- 
tion and  rights.  When  the  family  is  instituted  by  marriage, 
it  isjnan  who  is  the  head  and  chief  magistrate  by  the  force 
of  his  physical  power  and  requirement  of  the  chief  responsi- 
bility ;  not  less  is  he  so  according  to  the  Christian  law,  by 
whidi,  when  differences  arise,  the  husband  has  the  deciding 
control,  and  the  wife  is  to  obey.  "  Where  love  is,  there  is 
no  law  i"  but  where  Iqvc  is  not,  the  only  dignified  and  peace- 
ful course  is  for  the  wife,  however  much  the  man's  superior, 
to  "  submit,  as  to  God  and  not  to  man.^' 

But  this  power  of  nature  and  of  religion,  given  to  roan  as 
the  controlling  head,  involves  to  him  especially  the  distinct- 
ive duty  of  the  family  state,  sdf-^acrificing  love.  The  hus- 
band is  to  ^ honor"  the  wife,  to  love  her  as  himself,  and 
thus  to  account  her  wishes  and  happiness  as  of  equal  value 
with  his  own.  But  more  than  this,  he  is  to  love  her  "as 
Christ  loved  the  Church  f'  that  is,  he  is  to  "  suffer  **  for  her, 
if  need  be,  in  order  to  support  and  elevate  and  ennoble  her. 

12 


266  THE  HOUSEKBSPSR  AKD  HXALTHKXSPEB. 

The  father,  tbeD,  is  to  set  the  example  of  self-sacrificing 
love  and  devotion ;  and  the  mother,  of  Christian  obedience, 
when  it  is  required.  Every  boy  is  to  be  trained  for  his  fu- 
ture domestic  position  by  labor  and  sacrifices  for  his  mother 
and  sisters.  It  is  the  brother  who  is  to  do  the  hardest  and 
most  disagreeable  work,  ta  face  the  storms,  and  perform  the 
most  laborious  drudgeries^  In  the  family  eirc^  too,  be  is 
to  give  his  mother  and  sister  precedence  in  all  the  conven-' 
ienoes  and  comforts  of  home  life. 

It  is  only  in  those  nations  where  the  t^ac^ings  and  exam- 
ple of  Christ  have  had  most  influence  that  man  has  ever 
assumed  his  obligations  of  self-sacrificing  benevolence  in  the 
family.  And  even  in  Christian  communities,  the  duty  of 
^ives  to  obey  their  husbands  has  been  more  strenuously 
urged,  than  the  obligations  of  the  husband  to  love  his  wife 
"  as  Christ  loved  the  Church."* 

Here  it  is  needful  to  notice  that  the  distinctive  duty  of 
obedience  to  man  does  not  rest  on  women  who  do  not  enter 
the  relations  of  married  life.  A  woman  who  inherits  prop- 
erty, or  who  earns  her  own  livelihood,  can  institute  the  fam- 
ily state,  adopt  orphan  children,  and  employ  suitable  helpers 
in  training  them ;  and  then  to  her  will  appcHain  the  authori- 
ty and  rights  that  belong  to  man  as  the  head  of  a  family. 
And  when  every  woman  is  trained  to  some  self-supporting 
business,  she  will  not  be  tempted  to  enter  the  family  state 
as  a  subordinate,  except  by  that  love  for  which  there  is  no 
need  of  law. 

These  general  principles  being  stated,  some  details  in  re- 
gard to  domestic  manners  will  be  enumerated. 

In  the  firat  place,  there  should  be  required  in  the  family 
a  strict  attention  to  the  rules  of  precedence,  and  those  modes 
of  address  appropriate  to  the  various  relations  to  be  snsr 
tained.  Children  should  always  be  required  to  offer  their 
superiors  in  age  or  station  the  precedence  in  all  comforts 
and  (Conveniences,  and  always  address  them  in  a  respect- 
ful tone  and  manner^  The  custom  of  adding,  ''Sir,"  or 
"Ma*am,**  to  "Yes,'*  or  "No,''  is  valuable,  as  a  perpetual 
indication  of  a  respectful  recognition  of  superiority.  It  is 
now  going  out  of  fashion,  even  among  the  most  well-bred 


DOMSSnC  UANNSBS.  267 

people ;  probably  from  a  want  of  consideration  of  its  impor- 
tance. Every  remnant  of  courtesy  of  address  in  our  cus- 
toms should  be  carefully  cherished  by  all  who  feel  a  value 
for  the  proprieties  of  good-breeding. 

K  parents  allow  their  childrea  to  talk  to  them,  and  to  the 
grown  persons  in  the  fiEimilyyin  the  same  style  in  which  they 
address  each  other,  it  will  be  in  vain  to  hope  for  the  courte- 
sy of  manner  and  tone  which  good-breeding  demands  in  the 
general  Intercourse  of  society.  In  a  large  family,  wh^re  the 
elder  children  are  grown  up  and  the  younger  are  small,  it  is 
important  to  require  the  latter  to  treat  the  elder  in  some 
sense  as  superiors.  There  are  none  so  ready  as  young  chil- 
dren to  assume  airs  of  equality ;  and  if  they  are  allowed  to 
treat  one  class  of  superiors  in  age  and  character  disrespect- 
fully, they  will  soon  use  the  privilege  universally.  Hda  is 
the  reason  why  the  youngest  children  of  a  family  are  most 
apt  to  be  pert,  forward,  and  unmannerly. 

Another  point  to  be  aimed  at  is,  to  require  children  al- 
ways to  acknowledge  every  act  of  kindness  and  attention, 
cither  by  words  or  manner.  If  they  are  so  trained  sls  always 
to  make  grateful  acknowledgments  when  receiving  favors, 
one  of  the  objectionable  features  in  American  manners  will 
be  avoided. 

Again,  children  should  be  required  to  ask  leave,  whenever 
they  wish  to  gratify  curiosity,  or  use  an  article  which  be- 
longs to  another.  And  if  cases  occur  when  they  can  not 
comply  with  the  rules  of  good-breeding — as,  for  instance, 
when  they  mudt  step  between  a  person  and  the  fire,  or  take 
the  chair  of  an  older  person — they  should  be  taught  either 
to  ask  leave  or  to  offer  an  apology. 

There  is  another  point  of  good-breeding  which  can  not,  in 
all  cases, be  understood  and  applied  by  children  in  its  widest 
extent.  It  is  that  which  requires  us  to  avoid  all  remarks 
which  tend  to  embarrass,  vex,  mortify,  or  in  any  way  wound 
the  feelings  of  another.  To  notice  personal  defects ;  to  al- 
lude to  others'  fieinlts,  or  the  faults  of  their  friends ;  to  speak 
disparagingly  of  the  sect  or  party  to  which  a  person  belongs; 
to  be  inattentive  when  addressed  in  conversation;  to  contra- 
dict flatly;  to  speak  in  contemptuous  tones  of  opinions  ex- 


268      THB  HOUSSKEEPEB  AND  HXALTHKEBPEB. 

pressed  by  another ;  all  these  are  violations  of  the  rules  of 
good-breeding,  which  children  should  be  taught  to  regard. 
Under  this  head  comes  the  practice  of  whispering  and  star- 
ing about  when  a  teacher,  or  lecturer,  or  clergyman  is  ad- 
dressing a  class  or  audience.  Such  inattention  is  practically 
saying  thitt  what  the  person  is  uttering  is  not  worth  attend- 
ing to;  and  persons  of  real  good-breeding  always  avoid  it. 
Loud  talking  and  laughing  in  a  large  assembly,  even  when 
no  exercises  are  going  ou ;  yawning  and  gaping  in  company ; 
and  not  looking  in  the  face  a  person  who  is  addressing  you, 
are  deemed  marks  of  ill-breeding. 

Another  branch  of  good  manuere  relates  to  the  duties  of 
hospitality.  Politeness  requires  us  to  welcome  visitore  with 
cordiality ;  to  offer  them  the  best  accommodations ;  to  ad- 
dress conversation  to  them;  and  to 'express,  by  tone  and 
manner,  kindness  and  respect  Offering  the  hand  to  all  vis- 
itors at  one's  own  bouse  is  a  courteous  and  hospitable  cus- 
tom ;  and  a  cordial  shake  of  the  hand,  when  friends  meet, 
would  abate  much  of  the  coldness  of  manner  ascribed  to 
Americans. 

Another  point  of  good-breeding  refers  to  the  conventional 
rules  of  propriety  and  good  taste.  Of  these,  the  first  class 
relates  to  the  avoidance  of  all  disgusting  or  offensive  person- 
al habits:  such  as  fingering  the  hair;  obtrusively  using  a 
tooth-prck,  or  carrying  one  in  the  mouth  after  the  needful  use 
of  it ;  cleaning  the  nails  in  presence  of  others ;  picking  the 
nose;  spitting  on  carpets;  snuffing  instead  of  using  a  hand- 
kerchief, or  using  the  article  in  an  offensive  manner;  lifting 
up  the  boots  or  shoes,  as  some  men  do,  to  tend  them  on  the 
knee,  or  to  finger  them :  all  these  tricks,  either  at  home  or  in 
society,  children  should  be  taught  to  avoid. 

Another  topic,  under  this  head,  may  be  called  table  man- 
ners.  To  persons  of  good-breeding  nothing  is  more  annoy- 
ing than  violations  of  the  conventional  proprieties  of  the  ta- 
ble. Reaching  over  another  person's  pilate ;.  standing  up  to 
reach  distant  articles,  instead  of  asking  to  have  them  passed; 
using  one's  own  knife  and  spoon  for  butter,  salt,  or  sugar, 
when  it  is  the  custom  of  the  family  to  provide  separate  nteii* 
sils  for  the  purpose;  setting  cups  with  the  tea  dripping  from 


DOMSSnC  MANNSBS.  269 

them  on  the  table-cloth,  instead  of  the  matd  or  small  plates 
famished ;  using  the  table-cloth  instead  ^f  the  napkins ;  eat- 
ing fast,  and  in  a  noisy  manner;  putting  large  pieces  in  the 
month ;  looking  and  eating  as  if  very  hungry,  or  as  if  anx- 
ious to  get  at  certain  dishes ;  sitting  at  too  great  a  distance 
from  the  table,  and  dropping  food ;  laying  the  knife  and  fork 
on  the  table-cloth,  instead  of  on  the  edge  of  the  plate ;  pick- 
ing the  teeth  at  the  table:  all  these  particular  children 
should  be  taught  to  avoid. 

It  is  always  desirable,  too,  to  train  children,  when  at  table 
with  grown  persons,  to  be  silent,  except  when  addressed  by 
others ;  or  else  their  chattering  will  interrupt  the  conversa- 
tion and  comfort  of  their  elders.  They  should  always  be 
required,  too,  to  wait  in  silence  till  all  the  older  persons  are 
helped. 

When  children  are  alone  with  their  parents,  it  is  desirable 
to  lead  them  to  converse  and  to  take  this  as  an  opportunity 
to  form  proper  conversational  habita  But  it  should  be  a 
fixed  rule  that,  when  strangers  are  present,  the  c|)ildren  are 
to  listen  in  silence,  and  only  reply  when  addressed.  Unless 
this  is  secured,  visitors  will  often  be  condemned  to  listen  to 
puerile  chattering,  with  small  chance  of  the  proper  attention 
due  to  guests  and  superiors  in  age  and  station. 

Children  should  be  trained,  in  preparing  themselves  for 
the  table  or  for  appearance  among  the  family,  not  only  to 
put  their  hair,  face,  and  hands  in  neat  order,  but  also  their 
nails,  and  to  habitually  attend  to  this  latter  whenever  they 
wash  their  hands. 

There  are  some  very  disag]*eeable  tricks  which  many  chil- 
dren practice  even  in  families  counted  well-bred.  Such,  for 
example,  are  drumming  with  the  fingers  on  some  piece  of 
furniture,  or  humming  a  tune  while  others  are  talking,  or  in- 
teiTupting  conversation  by  pertinacious  questions,  or  whis- 
tling in  the  house  instead  of  outdoors,  or  speaking  several 
at  once  and  in  loud  voices  to  gain  attention.  All  these  are 
violations  of  good-breeding,  which  children  should  bo  train- 
ed to  avoid,  lest  they  should  not  only  annoy  as  children,  but 
practice  the  same  kind  of  ill  manners  when  mature.  In  all 
assemblies  for  public  debate,  a  chairman  or  moderator  is  ap- 


2j0  THB  HOUSBKBSPBB  AmO  HKALTHKBBPBB. 

pomted  whoso -business  it  is  to  see  that  only  one  person 
speaks  at  a  time,-that  no  one  interrupts  a  person  when 
speaking,  that  no  needless  noises  are  made^  and  that  all  in- 
decorums are  avoided.  Such  an  officer  is  sometimes  greatly 
needed  m  family  circles. 

Children  should  be  encouraged  freely  to  use  lungs  and 
limbs  outdoors,  or  in  hours  for  sport  in  the  house.  But  at 
other  times,  in  the  domestic  circle,  gentle  tones  and  manners 
should  be  cultivated.  The  words  gentleman  and  gentle- 
woman  came  originally  from  the  fact  that  the  uncultivated 
and  ignorant  classes  used  coarse  and  loud  tones,  and  rough 
woYds  and  movements ;  while  only  the  refined  circles  habit- 
ually used  gentle  tones  and  gentle  manners.  Fot*  the  same 
reason,  Uiose  bom  in  the  higher  circles  were  called  ^'  of  gentle 
blood.^^  Thus  it  came  that  a  coarse  and  loud  voice,  and 
rough,  ungentle  manners,  are  regarded  as  vulgar  and  ple- 
beian. 

All  these  things  should  be  taught  to  children  gradually, 
and  with  great  patience  and  gentleness.  Some  parents,  with 
whom  good  manners  are  a  great  object,  are  in  danger  of 
making  their  children  perpetually  uncomfortable,  by  sud- 
denly surrounding  them  with  so  many  rules  that  they  must 
inevitably  violate  some  one  or  other  a  great  part  of  the 
tima  It  is  much  better  to  begin  with  a  few  rules,  and  be 
steady  and  persevering  with  these  till  a  habit  is  formed, 
and  then  take  a  few  more,  thus  making  the  process  easy  and 
gradual.  Otherwise,  the  temper  of  children  will  be  injured ; 
or,  hopeless  of  fulfilling  so  many  requisitions,  they  will  be- 
come reckless  and  indifferent  to  all. 

If  a  few  brief,  well-considered,  and  sensible  rules  of  good 
manners  could  be  suspended  in  every  school-room,  and  the 
•children  all  required  to  commit  them  to  memory,  it  proba- 
bly would  do  more  to  remedy  the  defects  of  American  man- 
ners, and  to  advance  universal  good-breeding,  than  any  other 
mode  that  could  be  so  easily  adopted. 

But,  in  reference  to  those  who  have  enjoyed  advantages 
for  the  cultivation  of  good  manners,  and  who  duly  estimate 
its  importance,  one  caution  is  necessary.  Those  who  never 
have  had  such  habits  formed  in  youth  are  under  disadvaor 


DOMESTIC  HANNBBS.  271 

tages  which  no  benevolence  of  temper  can  altogether  reme- 
dy. They  may  often  violate  the  tastes  and  feelings  of 
others,  not  from  a  want  of  proper  regard  for  them,  bat  from 
ignorance  of  custom,  or  want  of  habit,  or  abstraction  of 
mind,  or  from  other  causes  which  demand  forbearance  and 
sympathy,  rather  tHan  displeasure.  An  ability  to  bear  pa- 
tiently with  defects  in  manners,  and  to  make  candid  and 
considerate  allowance  for  a  want  of  ad  vantages,  or  for  pecul- 
iarities in  mental  habits,  is  one  mark  of  the  benevolence  of 
real  good-breeding. 

The  advo^tes  of  monarchical  and  aristocratic  institutions 
have  always  had  great  plausibility  given  to  their  views,  by 
the  seeming  tendencies  of  our  institutions  to  insubordination 
and  bad  manners.  And  it  has  been  too  indiscriminately 
conceded  by  the  defenders  of  the  latter  that  such  are  these 
tendencies,  and  that  the  offensive  points  in  American  man- 
ners are  the  necessary  result  of  democratic  principles. 

But  it  is  believed  that  both  facts  and  reasoning  are  in  op- 
position to  this  opinion.  The  following  extract  from  the 
work  of  De  Tocqueville,  the  great  political  philosopher  of 
France,  exhibits  the  opinion  of  an  impartial  observer,  when 
comparing  American  manners  with  those  of  the  English, 
who  are  confessedly  the  most  aristocratic  of  all  people. 

He  previously  remarks  on  the  tendency  of  aristocracy  to 
make  men  more  sympathizing  with  persons  of  their  own 
peculiar  class,  and  less  so  toward  those  of  lower  degree; 
and  he  then  contrasts  American  manners  with  the  English, 
claiming  that  the  Americans  ai*e  much  the  more  affable, 
mild,  and  social.  ^'  In  America,  where  the  privileges  of 
birth  never  existed,  and  where  riches  confer  no  peculiar 
rights  on  their  possessors,  men  acquainted  with  each  other 
are  very  ready  to  frequent  the  same  places,  and  find  neither 
peril  nor  disadvantage  in  the  free  interchange  of  their 
thoughts.  If  they  meet  by  accident,  they  neither  seek  nor 
avoid  intercourse;  their  manner  is  therefore  natural,  frank, 
and  open.^'  "If  their  demeanor  is  oflen  cold  and  serious, 
it  is  never  haughty  nor  constrained.'^  But  an  "  aristocratic 
pride  is  still  extremely  great  among  the  English;  and  as 
the  limits  of  aristocracy  are  still  ill -defined,  every  body 


272      THX  HOUSXKSSPSB  AND  HSALTHKEBPXB.' 

lives  m  constant  dread  lest  advantage  should  be  taken  of 
his  familiarity.  XTnable  to  judge  at  once  of  the  social  posi- 
tion of  those  he  meets,  an  Englishman  prudently  avoids  all 
contact  with  them.  Men  are  afraid  lest  some  slight  service 
rendered  should  draw  them  into  an  unsuitable  acquaintance; 
they  dread  civilities,  and  they  avoid  the  obtrusive  gratitude 
of  a  stranger  as  much  as  his  hatred.** 

ThuBy  factsjoeem  to  show  that  when  the  most  aristocratic 
nation  in  the  world  is  compared,  as  to  manners,  with  the 
most  democratic,  the  judgment  of  strangers  is  in  favor  of 
the  latter.  And  if  good  manners  are  the  outward  exhibi- 
tion of  the  democratic  principle  ^f  impartial  benevolence 
and  equal  rights,  surely  the  nation  which  adopts  this  rule, 
both  in  social  and  civil  life,  is  the  most  likely  to  secure  the 
desirable  exterior.  The  aristocrat,  by  his  principles,  ex- 
tends the  exterior  of  impartial  benevolence  to  his  own  class 
only;  the  democratic  principle  requires  it  to  be  extended 
toaU. 

Thei*e  is  reason,  therefore,  to  hope  and  expect  more  refined 
and  polished  manners  in  America  than  in  any  other  land; 
while  all  the  developments  of  taste  and  refinement,  such  as 
poetry,  music,  painting,  sculpture,  and  architecture,  it  may 
be  expected,  will  come  to  as  high  a  state  of  perfection  here 
as  in  any  other  nation. 

If  this  country  increases  in  viitne  and  intelligence  as  it 
may,  there  is  no  end  to  the  wealth  which  will  pour  in  as  the 
result  of  our  resources  of  climate,  soil,  and  navigation,  and 
the  skill,  industry,  energy,  and  enterprise  of  our  countrymen. 
This  wealth,  if  used  as  intelligence  and  virtue  dictate,  will 
furnish  the  means  for  a  superior  education  to  all  classes, 
and  every  facility  for  the  refinement  of  taste,  intellect,  and 
feeling. 

Moreover,  in  this  country,  labor  is  ceasing  to  be  the  badge 
of  a  lower  class ;  so  that  already  it  is  disreputable  for  a  man 
to  be  ^'  a  lazy  gentleman."  And  this  feeling  must  increase, 
till  there  is  such  an  equalization  of  labor  as  will  afford  all 
the  time  needful  for  every  class  to  improve  the  many  ad- 
vantages offered  to  them.  Already,  through  the  munificence 
of  some  of  our  citizens,  there  are  literary  and  scientific  ad- 


I>0ME8nC  MANK££S.  2Vd 

vantages  offered  to  all  classes,  rarely  enjoyed  elsewhere.  In 
most  of  our  large  cities  and  towns  the  advantages  of  edu- 
cation now  offered  to  the  poorest  classes,  often  without 
charge,  surpass  what,  some  years  ago,  most  wealthy  men 
could  purchase  for  any  price ;  and  it  is  believed  that  a  time 
will  come  when  tl>e  poorest  boy  in  America  can  secure  ad- 
vantages which  will  equal  what  the  heir  of  the  proudest  peer- 
age can  now  command. 

The  records  of  the  courts  of  France  and  Germany,  (as  de- 
tailed by  the  Duchess  of  Orleans,)  in  and  succeeding  the 
brilliant  reign  of  Louis  the  Fourteenth — a  period  which  was 
deemed  the  acme  of  elegance  and  refinement  —  exhibit  a 
grossness,  a  vulgarity,  and  a  coarseness,  not  to  be  found 
among  the  very  lowest  of  our  respectable  poor.  And  the 
biography  of  the  English  Beau  Nash,  who  attempted  to  re- 
form the  manners  of  the  gentry  in  the  times  of  Queen  Anne, 
exhibits  violations  of  the  rules  of  decency  among  the  aristoc- 
racy which  the  commonest  yeoman  of  this  land  would  feel 
disgraced  in  perpetrating. 

This  shows  that  our  lowest  classes,  at  this  period,  are  mora 
refined  than  were  the  highest  in  aristocratic  lands  a  hun- 
dred years  ago ;  and  another  century  may  show  the  lowest 
classes  in  wealth,  in  this  country,  attaining  as  high  a  polish 
as  adorns  those  who  now  are  leaders  of  good  manners  in  the 
courts  of  kings. 

12* 


214  TBS  HOUSSKJBXPSB  AI^D  HIBALTHKSXPXB. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

THB  PBSSEBVATION  OF  GOOD  TEMPER  IN  THE  H0U8EKEEPEB. 

Thsbe  is  nothing  which  has  a  more  abiding  inflaence  on 
the  happiness  of  a  family  than  the  preservation  of  equable 
and  cheerful  temper  and  tones  in  the  housekeeper.  A  wom- 
an who  is  habitually  gentle,  sympathizing,  forbearing,  and 
cheerful,  carnes  an  atmosphere  about  her  which  imparts  a 
soothing  and  sustaining  influence,  and  renders  it  easier  for 
all  to  do  right,  under  her  administration,  than  in  any  other 
situation. 

The  writer  has  known  families  where  the  mother's  pres- 
ence seemed  the  sunshine  of  the  circle  around  her — impart- 
ing a  cheering  and  vivifying  power,  scarcely  realized  till  it 
was  withdrawn.  Every  one,  without  thinking  of  it,  or 
knowing  why  it  was  so,  experienced  a  peaceful  and  invigor- 
ating influence  as  soon  as  he  entered  the  sphere  illumined 
by  her  smile  and  sustained  by  her  cheering  kindness  and 
sympathy.  On  the  contrary,  many  a  good  housekeeper, 
(good  in  every  respect  but  this,)  by  wearing  a  countenance 
of  anxiety  and  dissatisfaction,  and  by  indulging  in  the  fre- 
quent use  of  sharp  and  reprehensive  tones,  more  than  de- 
stroys all  the  comfort  which  otherwise  would  result  from 
her  system,  neatness,  and  economy. 

There  is  a  secret,  social  sympathy  which  every  mind,  to 
a  greater  or  less  degree,  experiences  with  the  feelings  of 
those  around,  as  they  are  manifested  by  the  countenance 
and  voice.  A  sorrowful,  a  discontented,  or  an  angry  coun- 
'tenance  produces  a  silent,  sympathetic  influence,  imparting 
a  sombre  shade  to  the  mind,  while  tones  of  anger  or  com- 
plaint still  more  eflcctually  jar  the  spirits. 

No  peraon  can  maintain  a  quiet  and  cheerful  frame  of 
mind  while  tones  of  discontent  and  displeasure  are  sounding 
on  the.  ear.  We  may  gradually  accustom  ourselves  to  the 
evil  till  it  is  partially  diminished ;  but  it  always  is  an  evil 


THE  PHSSSBYATION  OF  GOOD  TSlfrBB.  27$ 

which  greatly  interferes  with  the  enjoyment  of  the  family 
state.  There  are  sometimes  cases  where  the -entrance  of  the 
mistress  of  a  family  seems  to  awaken  a  slight  apprehension 
in  every  mind  around,  as  if  each  felt  in  danger  of  a  reproof, 
for  BOQ^ething  either  perpetrated  or  neglected.  A  woman 
who  shoald  go  around  her  house  with  a  small  stinging  snap- 
per, which  she  habitually  applied  to  those  whom  she  met, 
would  be  encountered 'with  feelings  very  much  like  those 
which  are  experienced  by  the  inmates  of  a  family  where  the 
mistress  often  uses  her  countenance  and  voice  to  inflict  simi- 
lar penalties  for  duties  neglected. 

Yet  there  are  many  allowances  to  be  made  for  housekeep- 
ers who  sometimes  imperceptibly  and  unconsciously  fall  into 
such  habits.  A  woman  who  attempts  to  carry  out  any  plans 
of  system,  order,  and  economy,  and  who  has  her  feelings  and 
habits  conformed  to  certain  rules,  is  constantly  liable  to 
have  her  plans  crossed,  and  her  taste  violated,  by  the  inex- 
perience or  inattention  of  those  about  her.  And  no  house- 
keeper, whatever  may  be  her  habits,  can  escape  the  frequent 
.recurrence  of  negligence  or  mistake  which  interferes  with 
her  plans. 

It  is  probably  that  there  is  no  class  of  persons  in  the 
world  who  have  such  incessant  trials  of  temper,  and  tempta- 
tions to  be  fretful,  as  American  housekeepers ;  for  a  house- 
keeper's business  is  not,  like  that  of  the  other  sex,  limited  to 
a  particular  department,  for  which  previous  preparation  is 
made.  It  consists  of  ten  thousand  little  disconnected  items, 
which  can  never  be  so  systematically  arranged  that  there  is 
no  daily  jostling  somewhere.  And  in  the  best-regulated 
families  it  is  not  unfrequently  the  case  that  some  act  of  for- 
getfulness  or  carelessness  from  some  member  will  disarrange 
the  business  of  the  whole  day,  so  that  every  hour  will  bring 
renewed  occasion  for  annoyance.  And  the  more  strongly  a 
woman  realizes  the  value  of  time,  and  the  importance  of  sys- 
tem and  order,  the  more  will  she  be  tempted  to  irritabiKty 
and  complaint. 

The  following  considerations  may  aid  in  preparing  a  wom- 
an to  meet  such  daily  crosses  with  even  a  cheerful  temper 
and  tones. 


276  THS  HOIJSBKSEPBB  AND  HEALTHKXEPXB. 

In  the  first  pbtce,  a  woman  who  has  charge  of  a  large 
household  shocrld  regard  her  duties  as  dignified,  impoilant, 
>  and  difficult.  The  mind  is  so  made  as  to  be  elevated  and 
cheered  by  a  sense  of  far-reaching  influence  and  usefulness. 
A  woman  who  feels  that  she  is  a  cipher,  and  that  it  makes 
little  difference  bow  she  performs  her  duties,  has  far  less  to 
sustain  and  invigorate  her  than  one- who  truly  estimates 
the  importance  of  her  station.  A  man  who  feels  that  the 
destinies  of  a  nation  are  turning  on  the  judgment  and  skill 
with  which  he  plans  and  executes,  has  a  pressure  of  motive 
and  an  elevation  of  feeling  which  are  great  safeguards 
against  all  that  is  low,  trivial,  and  degrading. 

So,  an  American  mother  and  housekeeper  who  rightly 
estimates  the  long  train  of  influence  which  will  pass  down 
to  thousands  whose  destinies,  from  generation  to  generation, 
will  be  modified  by  those  decisions  of  her  will  which  regu- 
late the  temper,  principles,  and  habits  of  her  family,  must  be 
elevated  above  petty  temptations  which  would  otherwise 
assail  her. 

Again,  a  housekeeper  should  feel  that  she  really  has  great  > 
difficulties  to  meet  and  overcome.  A  person  who  wrongly 
thinks  there  is  little  danger,  can  never  maintain  so  faithful  a 
guard  as  one  who  rightly  estimates  the  temptations  which 
beset  her.  Nor  can  one  who  thinks  that  they  are  trifling 
difficulties  which  she  has  to  encounter,  and  trivial  tempta- 
tions to  which  she  must  yield,  so  much  enjoy  the  just  reward 
of  conscious. virtue  and  self-control  as  one  who  takes  an  op- 
posite view  of  the  subject. 

A  third  method  is,  for  a  woman  deliberately  to  calculate 
on  having  her  best-aiTanged  plans  interfered  with  very  oft- 
en, and  to  be  in  such  a  state  of  preparation  that  the  evil 
will  not  come  unawares.  So  complicated  are  the  pursuits, 
and  so  divei*se  the  habits  of  the  various  members  of  a  family, 
that  it  is  almost  impossible  for  every  one  to  avoid  interfer- 
ing with  the  plans  and  taste  of  a  housekeeper  in  some  one 
point  or  another.  It  is,  therefore,  most  wise  for  a  woman  to 
keep  the  loins  of  her  mind  ever  girt,  to  meet  such  collisions 
with  a  cheerful  and  quiet  spirit. 

Another  important  rule  is,  to  form  all  plans  and  arrange- 


THB  PRSSBBVATION  OF  GOOD  TBHPES.  •     2?7 

ments  in  consistency  with  the  means  at  command,  and  the 
character  of  those  around.  A  woman  who  has  a  heedless 
husband,  and  young  children,  and  incompetent  domestics, 
ought  not  to  make  such  plans  as  one  may  properly  form 
who  will  not,  in  so  many  directions,  meet  embarrassment. 
She  must  aim  at  just  as  much  as  she  can  probably  attain, 
and  no  more ;  and  thus  she  will  usually  escape  much  temp- 
tation, and  much  of  the  irritation  of  disappointment. 

The  fifth,  and  a  very  important  consideration,  is,  that  sys- 
tem, economy,  and  neatness,  are  valuable  only  so  far  as  they 
tend  to  promote  the  comfort  and  well-being  of  those  affect- 
ed. Some  women  seem  to  act  under  the  impression  that 
these  advantages  must  be  secured,  at  all  events,  even  if  the 
comfort  of  the  family  be  the  sacrifice.  True^  it  is  very  im- 
portant that  children  grow  up  in  habits  of  system,  neatness, 
and  order ;  and  it  is  very  desirable  that  the  mother  give 
them  every  incentive,  both  by  precept  and  example ;  but  it 
is  still  more  important  that  they  grow  up  with  amiable  tem- 
pers, that  they  learn  to  meet  the  crosses  of  life  with  patience 
and  cheerfulness ;  and  nothing  has  a  greater  influence  to  se- 
cure this  than  a  mother^s  example.  Whenever,  therefore,  a 
woman  can  not  accomplish  her  plans  of  neatness  and  order 
without  injury  to  her  own  temper  or  to  the  temper  of  others, 
she  ought  to  modify  and  reduce  them  until  she  can. 

The  sixth  method  relates  to  the  government  of  the  tones 
of  voice.  In  many  cases,  when  a  woman's  domestic  arrange- 
ments are  suddenly  and  seriously  crossed,  it  is  impossible 
not  to  feel  some  irritation.  But  it  is  always  possible  to  re- 
frain from  angry  tones.  A  woman  can  resolve  that,  what- 
ever happens,  she  will  not  speak  till  she  can  do  it  in  a  calm 
and  gentle  manner.  Perfect  silence  is  a  safe  resort,  when 
such  control  can  not  be  attained  as  enables  a  person  to 
speak  calmly ;  and  this  determination,  persevered  in,  will 
eventually  be  crowned  with  success. 

•  Many  persons  seem  to  imagine  that  tones  of  anger  are 
needful,  in  order  to  secure  prompt  obedience.  But  observa- 
tion has  convinced  the  writer  that  they  are  nfoer  necessary ; 
that  in  all  cases  reproof  administered  in  calm  tones  would  be 
better.    A  case  will  be  given  in  illustration. 


278      THE  H0U8KKBSPSB  AKD  HSALTHKSEPEB. 

A  yoang  girl  had  been  repeatedly  charged  to  avoid  a 
certain  arraDgement  in  cooking.  On  one  day,  when  com- 
pany was  invited  to  dine,  the  direction  was  forgotten,  and 
the  consequence  was  an  accident  which  disarranged  every 
thing,  seriously  injured  the  principal  dish,  and  delayed  din- 
ner for  an  hoar.  The  mistress  of  the  family  entered  the 
kitchen  just  as  it  occurred,  and  at  a  glance  saw  the  extent 
of  the  mischief  For  a  moment  her  eyes  flashed  and  her 
cheeks  glowed ;  but  she  held  her  peace.  After  a  minute  or 
80,  she  gave  directions  in  a  calm  voice  as  to  the  best  mode 
of  retrieving  the  evil,  and  then  left,  without  a  word  said  to 
the  offender. 

After  the  company  left,  she  sent  for  the  girl,  alone,  and 
in  a  calm  and  kind  manner  pointed  out  the  aggravations  of 
the  case,  and  described  the  trouble  which  had  been  caused 
to  her  husband,  her  visitors,  and  herself  She  then  por- 
trayed the  future  evils  which  would  result  from  such  habits 
of  neglect  and  inattention,  and  the  modes  of  attempting  to 
overcome  them ;  and  then  offered  a  reward  for  the  future, 
i^  in  a  given  time,  she  succeeded  in  improving  in  this  re- 
spect. Not  a  tone  of  anger  was  uttered ;  and  yet  the  se- 
vei'est  scolding  of  a  practiced  Xantippe  could  not  have  se- 
cured such  contrition,  and  determination  to  reform,  as  were 
gained  by  this  method. 

But  similar,  negligence  is  often  visited  by  a  continuous 
stream  of  complaint  and  reproof,  which,  in  most  cases,  is 
met  cither  by  sullen  silence  or  impertinent  retort,  while 
anger  prevents  any  contiition  or  any  resolution  of  future 
amendment. 

It  is  very  certain  that  some  ladies  do  carry  forward  a 
most  efficient  government,  both  of  children,  and  domestics, 
without  employing  tones  of  anger ;  and  therefore  they  are 
not  indispensable,  nor  on  any  account  desirable. 

Though  some  ladies  of  intelligence  and  refinement  do  &11 
unconsciously  into:  such  a  practice,  it  is  certainly  very  un-» 
lady-like,  and  in  very  bad  taste,  to  scold;  and  the  further  a 
woman  departs  from  all  approach  to  itj  the  more  perfectly 
she  sustains  her  character  as  a  lady. 

Another  method  of  securing  equanimity  amidst  the  triala 


THJEB  PRESEBYATION'OF  OOOD  TEHPXB.  219 

of  domestic  life  is,  to  caltivate  a  babit  of  making  allowances 
^  for  the  difficulties,  ignorance,  or  temptations  of  those  who 
violate  rule  or  neglect  duty.  It  is  vain,  and  most  unreason- 
able, to  expect  the  consideration  and  care  of  a  mature  mind 
in  childhood  and  youth ;  or  that  persons  of  such  limited  ad- 
vantages as  most  domestics  have  enjoyed  should  practice 
proper  self  control,^and  possess  proper  habits  and  principles. 

Every  parent  and  every  employer  needs  daily  to  culti- 
vate the  spirit  expressed  in  the  divine  prayer, "  Forgive  us 
our  trespasses  as  we  forgive  those  who  trespass  against  us." 
The  same  allowances  and  forbearance  which  we  supplicate 
from  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  desire  from  our  fellow-men 
in  I'eference  to  our  own  deficiencies,  we  should  constantly 
aim  to  extend  to  all  who  cross  our  feelings  and  interfere 
with  our  plans. 

The  last  and  most  important  mode  of  securing  a  placid 
and  cheerful  temper  and  tones  is,  by  a  constant  belief  in  the 
influence  of  a  superintending  Providence.  All  persons  are 
too  much  in  the  habit  of  regarding  the  more  important 
events  of  life  exclusively  as  under  the  control  of  Perfect 
Wisdom;  but  the  fall  of  a  sparrow,  or  the  loss  of  a  hair, 
they  do  not  feel  to  be  equally  the  result  of  his  directing 
agency.  In  consequence  of  this,  Christian  persons  who  aim 
at  perfect  and  cheerful  submission  to  heavy  afflictions,  and 
who  succeed  to  the  edification  of  all  about  them,  are  some- 
times sadly  deficient  under  petty  crosses.  If  a  beloved 
child  be  laid  in  the  grave,  even  if  its  death  resulted  from 
the  carelessness  of  a  domestic  or  of  a  physician,  the  eye  is 
turned  from  the  subordinate  agent  to  the  Supreme  Guardian 
of  all ;  and  to  him  they  bow,  without  murmur  or  complaint. 
But  if  a  pudding  be  burned,  or  a  room  badly  swept,  or  an 
errand  forgotten,  then  vexation  and  complaint  are  allowed, 
just  as  if  these  events  were  not  appointed  by  Perfect  Wis- 
dom as  much  as  the  sorer  chastisement. 

A  woman,  therefore,  needs  to  cultivate  the  habitual  feel- 
ing that  all  the  events  of  her  nursery  and  kitchen  are 
brought  about  by  the  permission  of  our  Heavenly  Father; 
and  that  fretfulncss  or  complaint  in  regard  to  these  is,  in 
fact,  complaining  at  the  appointments  of  God,  and  is  really 


280  THE  H01J8ERSXPBB  AND.  HBALTHKSXPSB. 

as  sinful  as  unsabmissive  murmurs  amidst  the  sorer  chastise- 
ments of  his  hand.  And  a  woman  who  cultivates  this  habit 
of  referring  all  the  minor  trials  of  life  to  the  wise  and  be- 
nevolent agency  of  a  heavenly  Parent,  and  daily  seeks  bis 
sympathy  and  aid  to  enable  her  to  meet  them  with  a  quiet 
and  cheerful  spirit,  will  soon  find  it  the  perennial  spring  of 
abiding  peace  and  content. 

.  The  power  of  religion  to  impart  dignity  and  importance 
to  the  ordinary  and  seemingly  petty  details  of  domestic  life 
greatly  depends  upon  the  degree  of  faith  in  the  reality  of  a 
life  to  come,  and  of  its  eternal  results.  A  woman  who  is 
training  a  family  simply  with  reference,  to  this  life  may  find 
exalted  motives  as  she  looks  forward  to  unborn  generations, 
whose  temporal  prosperity  and  happiness  are  depending 
upon  her  fidelity  and  skill.  But  one  who  truly  and  firmly 
believes  that  this  life  is  but  the  beginning  of  an  eternal 
career  to  every  immortal  inmate  of  her  home,  and  that  the 
formation  of  tastes,  habits,  and  character,  under  her  care, 
will  bring  forth  fruits  of  good  or  ill,  not  only  through  earth- 
ly generations,  but  through  everlasting  ages — such  a  woman 
secui^es  a  calm  and  exalted  principle  of  action,  and  a  source 
of  peace  which  no  earthly  motives  can  impart. 


HABITS  OF  SYSTEM  AND  OBDEBw  ^  281 


CHAPTER  XV. 

HABITS   OF  SYSTEH  AKD   OEDBB. 

• 

Any  discassion  of  the  eqaality  of  the  sexes  as  to  intellect- 
ual capacity  seems  frivolous  and  useless,  both  because  it 
can  never  be  decided,  and  because  there  would  be  no  possi- 
ble advantage  in  the  decision.  But  one  topic,  which  is  oft- 
en drawn  into  this  discussion,  is  of  far  moret  consequence; 
and  that  is,  the  relative  impoilance  and  difficulty  of  the 
duties  a  woman  is  called  to  perform. 

It  is  generally  assumed,  and  almost  as  generally  conceded, 
that  a  housekeeper's  business  and  cares  are  contracted  and 
trivial;  and  that  the  proper  discharge  of  her  duties  de- 
mands far  less  expansion  of  mind  and  vigor  of  intellect  than 
the  pursuits  of  the  other  sex.  This  idea  has  prevailed  be- 
cause women,  as  a  mass,  have  never  been  educated  with  ref- 
erence to  their  most  important  duties;  while  that  portion 
of  their  employments  which  is  of  least  value  has  been  re- 
garded as  the  chief,  if  not  the  sole,  concern  of  a  woman. 
The  covering  of  the  body,  the  convenience  of  residences, 
and  the  gratification  of  the  appetite,  have  been  too  much  re- 
garded as  the  chief  objects  on  which  her  intellectual  powers^ 
are  to  be  exercised. 

But  as  society  gradually  shakes  off  the  remnants  of  bar- 
barism and  the  intellectual  and  moral  interests  of  man  rise, 
in  estimation,  above  the  merely  sensual,  a  truer  estimate  is 
formed  of  woman's  duties,  and  of  the  measure  of  intellect 
requisite  for  the  proper  discharge  of  them.  Let  any  man  of 
sense  and  discernment  become  the  member  of  a  large  house- 
hold, in  which  a  well-educated  and  pious  woman  is  endeav- 
oring systematically  to  discharge  her  multiform  duties;  let 
him  fully  comprehend  all  her  cares,  difficulties,  and  perplex- 
ities; and  it  is  probable  he  would  coincide  in  the  opinion 
that  no  statesman  at  the  head  of  a  nation's  affairs  had  more 
frequent  calls  for  wisdom,  firmness,  tact,  discrimination,  pru' 
deuce,  and  versatility  of  talent,  than  such  a  woman. 


^2  THB.HOUSSKSEPBB  AJSH}  HEALTHKBEPBB. 

She  has  a  hnsband,  to  whose  peculiar  tastes  and  habits 
she  roust  accommodate  herself;  she  has  children,  whose 
health  she  must  guard,  whose  physical  constitutions  she 
must  study  and  develop,  whose  temper  and  habits  she  must 
regulate,  whose  principles  she  must  form,  whose  pursuits  she 
must  guide.  She  has  constantly  changing  domestics,  with 
all  varieties  of  temper  and  habits,  whom  she  must  govern, 
instruct,  and  direct ;  she  is  required  to  regulate  the  finances 
of  the  domestic  state,  and  constantly  to  adapt  expenditures 
to  the  means  and  to  the  relative  claims  of  each  department 
She  has  the  direction  of  the  kitchen,  where  ignorance,'for- 
getfulness,  and  awkwardness,  are  to  be  so  regulated  that  the 
various  operations  shall  each  start  at  the  right  time,  and  all 
be  in  completeness  at  the  same  given  hour.  She  has  the 
claims  of  society  to  meet,  visits  to  receive  and  return,  and 
the  duties  of  hospitality  to  sustain.  She  has  the  poor  to  re- 
lieve ;  benevolent  societies  to  aid ;  the  schools  of  her  chil- 
dren to  inquire  and  decide  about;  the  care  of  the  sick  and 
the  aged ;  the  nursing  of  infancy ;  and  the  endless  miscel- 
lany of  odd  items  constantly  recurring  in  a  large  family. 

Surely  it  is  a  pernicious  and  mistaken  idea  that  the  duties 
which  tax  a  woman's  mind  are  petty,  trivial,  or  unworthy  of 
the  highest  grade  of  intellect  and  moral  worth.  Instead  of 
allowing  this  feeling,  every  woman  should  imbibe,  from  ear- 
ly youth,  the  impression  that  she  is  in  training  for  the  dis- 
charge of  the  most  important,  the  most  difficult,  and  the 
most  sacred  and  interesting  duties  that  can  possibly  employ 
the  highest  intellect.  She  ought  to  feel  that  her  station 
and  responsibilities  in  the  great  drama  of  life  are  second  to 
none,  either  as  viewed  by  her  Maker  or  in  the  estimation  of 
all  minds  whose  judgment  is  most  worthy  of  respect. 

She  who  is  the  mother  and  housekeeper  in  a  large  family 
is  the  sovereign  of  an  empire,  demanding  more  varied  cares, 
and  involving  more  difficult  duties,  than  are  really  exacted 
of  her  who  wears  a  crown  and  professedly  regulates  the  in- 
terests of  the  greatest  nation  on  earth. 

There  is  no  one  thing  more  necessary  to  a  housekeeper, 
in  performing  her  varied  duties,  than  a  habit  of  system  and 
order;  and  yet  the  peculiarly  desultory  nature  of  women's 


HABITS   OF  SYSTEM  AND  ORDSB.  283 

• 

'  porsnits,  and  the  embarrassmeQts  resulting  from  the  state 
.  of  domestic  service  in  this  country,  render  it  Very  difficult 
to  form  such  a  habit  But  it  is  sometimes  the  case  that 
women  who  could  and  would  carry  forward  a  systematic 
plan  of  domestic  economy  do  not  attempt  it,  simply  from  a 
want  of  knowledge  of  the  various  modes  of  introducing  it. 
It  is  with  reference  to  such  that  vanous  modes  of  securing 
system  and  order,  which  the  writer  has  seen  adopted,  will  be 
pointed  out 

A  wise  economy  is  nowhere  more  conspicuous  than  in  a 
systematic  apportionment  of  time  to  different  pursuits. 
There  are  duties  of  a  religious,  intellectual,  social,  and  do- 
mestic nature,  each  having  different  relative  claims  on  at- 
tention. Unless  a  person  has  some  general  plan  of  appor- 
tioning these  claims,  some  will  intrench  on  othera,  and 
some,  it  is  probable,  will  be  entirely  excluded.  Thus  some 
find  religious,  social,  and  domestic  duties  so  numerous,  that 
no  time  is  given  to  intellectual  improvement  Others  find 
either  social,  or  benevolent,  or  i-eligious  interests  excluded 
by  the  extent  and  variety  of  other  engagements. 

It  is  wise,  therefore,  for  all  persons  to  devise  a  systematic 
plan  which  they  will  at  least  keep  in  view  and  aim  to  ac- 
complish, and  by  which  a  proper  proportion*  of  time  shall 
be  secured  for  all  the  duties  of  life. 

In  forming  such  a  plan,  every  woman  must  accommodate 
herself  to  the  peculiarities  of  her  situation.  If  she  has  a 
large  family  and  a  small  income,  she  must  devote  far  more 
time  to  the  simple  duty  of  providing  food  and  raiment  than 
would  be  right  wei*e  she  in  affluence,  and  with  a  small 
family.  It  is  impossible,  therefore,  to  draw  out  any  general 
plan  which  all  can  adopt  But  there  are  some  general  prin- 
cipleSy  which  ought  to  be  the  guiding  rules,  when  a  woman 
arranges  her  domestic  employments  These  principles  are 
to  be  based  on  Christianity,  which  teaches  ns  to  *'seek  first 
the  kingdom  of  God,''  and  to  deem  food,  raiment,  and  the 
conveniences  of  life  as  of  secondary  account  Every  wom- 
an, then,  ought  to  start  with  the  assumption  that  the  moral 
and  religious  interests  of  her  family  are  of  more  consequence 
than,  any  worldly  concern,  and  that,  whatever  else  may  be 


284      THE  HOqSEKXXPEB  AND  HSALTHKEEPSB* 

sacrificed,  these  shall  be-  the  leading  object,  in  all  her  ar- 
rangements, in  respect  to  time,  money,  and  attention. 

It  is  also  one  of  the  plainest  requisitions  of  Christianity, 
that  we  devote  some  of  our  time  and  efforts  to  the  comfort 
and  improvement  of  others.  ^  There  is  no  duty  so  constantly 
enforced,  both  in  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  as  that  of 
charity,  in  dispensing  to  those  who  are  destitute  of  the  bless- 
ings we  enjoy.  In  selecting  objects  of  charity,  the  same 
rule  applies  to  others  as  to  ourselves ;  their  moral  and  re- 
ligious interests  are  of  the  highest  moment,  and  for  them,  as 
well  as  for  ourselves,  we  are  to  ''  seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God." 

Another  general  principle*  is,  that  our  intellectual  and 
social  interests  are  to  be  preferred  to  the  mere  gratification 
of  taste  or  appetite.  A  portion  of  time,  therefore,  must  be 
devoted  to  the  cultivation  of  the  intellect  and  the  social  af- 
fections. 

Another  is,  that  the  nxere  gratification  of  appetite  is  to 
be  placed  last  in  our  estimate;  so  that  when  a  question 
arises  as  to  which  shall  be  sacrificed,  some  intellectual, 
moral,  or  social  advantage,  or  some  gratification  of  sense,  we 
should  invariably  sacrifice  the  last. 

As  health  is  indispensabfe  to  the  discharge  of  every  duty, 
nothing  which  sacrifices  that  blessing  is  to  be  allowed  in  or- 
der to  gain  any  other  advantage  or  enjoyment.  There  are 
emergencies  when  it  is  right  to  risk  health  and  life  to  save 
ouraelves  and  others  from  greater  evils;  but  these  are  ex- 
ceptions, which  do  not  militate  against  the  general  rule. 
Many  persons  imagine  that  if  they  violate  the  laws  of  health 
in  order  to  attend  to  religious  or  domestic  duties,  they  are 
guiltless  before  God.  But  such  greatly  mistake.  We  di- 
rectly violate  the  law,  "  Thou  shalt  not  kill,"  when  we  do 
what  tends  to  risk  or  shorten  our  own  life.  The  life  and 
happiness  of  all  his  creatures  are  dear  to  our  Creator ;  and 
he  is  as  much  displeased  when  we  injure  our  own  interests 
as  when  we  injure  those  of  others.  The  idea,  therefore,  that 
we  are  excusable  if  we  harm  no  one  but  ourselves,  is  false 
and  pernicious.  These,  then,  are  some  general  principles  to 
guide  a  woman  in  systematizing  her  duties  and  pursuits.     • 


HABITS   OF  SYSTEM  AND  OBDSB.  285 

The  Creator  of  all  things  is  a  Being  of  perfect  system  and 
order ;  and,  to  aid  as  in  our  daty  in  this  respect,  he  has  di- 
vided oar  time  by  a  regularly  retarning  day  of  rest  from 
worldly  business.  In  following  this  example,  the  interven- 
ing six  days  may  be  subdivided  to  secure  similar  benefits. 
In  doing  this,  a  certain  portion  of  time  must  be  given  to 
procure  the  means  of  livelihood,  and  for  preparing  food,  rai- 
ment, and  dwellings.  To  these  objects  some  must  devote 
more,  and  others  less,  attention.  The  remainder  of  time  not 
necessarily  thus  employed  might  be  divided  somewhat  in 
this  manner:  The  leisure  of  two  afternoons  and  evenings 
could  be  devoted  to  religious  and  benevolent  objects,  such 
as  religious  meetings,  charitable  associations,  school  visiting, 
and  attention  to  the  sick  and  poor.  The  leisure  of  two  oth- 
er days  might  be  devoted  to  intellectual  improvement  and 
the  pursuits  of  taste.  The  leisure  of  another  day  might  be 
devoted  to  social  enjoyments,  in  making  or  receiving  visits; 
and  that  of  another,  to  miscellaneous  domestic  pursuits,  not 
included  in  the  other  particulars. 

It  is  probable  that  few  persons  could  carry  out  such  an 
arrangement  very  strictly;  but  every  one  can  make  a  sys- 
tematic apportionment  of  time,  and  at  least  aim  at  accom- 
plishing it ;  and  they  can  also  compare  with  such  a  general 
outline  the  time  which  they  actually  devote  to  these  differ- 
ent objects,  for  the  purpose  of  modifying  any  mistaken  pro- 
portions. 

Without  attempting  any  such  systematic  employment  of 
time,  and  carrying  it  out,  so  far  as  they  can  control  circum- 
stances, most  women  are  rather  driven  along  by  the  daily 
occurrences  of  life ;  so  that,  instead  of  being  the  intelligent 
regulators  of  their  own  time,  they  are  the  mere  sport  of  cir- 
cumstances. There  is  nothing  which  so  distinctry  marks  the 
difference  between  weak  and  strong  miads  as  the  question 
whether  they  control  circumstances  or  circumstances  control 
them. 

It  is  very  much  to  be  feared  that  the  apportionment  of 
time  actually  tnade  by  most  women  exactly  inverts  the  or- 
der required  by  reason  and  Christianity.  Thus  the  furnish- 
ing a  needless  variety  of  food,  the.  conveniences  of  dwell- 


288  *    THE  HOUSSKSEPSS  ASD   HSALTHKBXPEB. 

they  come  much  cheaper  than  if  bought  in  little  portions  as 
they  are  wanted.  Such  a  trunk  should  be  kept  locked,  and 
a  smaller  supply  for  current  use  retained  in  a  work-basket. 

A  full  supply  of  all  conyeniences  in  the  kitchen  and  eel* 
lar,  and  a  place  appointed  for  each  article,  very  much  fiu^ili- 
tate  domestic  labor.  For  want  of  this,  much  vexation  and 
loss  of  time  is  occasioned  while  seeking  vessels  in  use,  or  in 
cleansing  those  employed  by  different  persons  for  various 
purposes.  It  would  be  far  better  for  a  lady  to  give  up  some 
expensive  article  in  the  parlor,  and  apply  the  money  thus 
saved  for  kitchen  conveniences,  than  to  hav&'a  stinted  sup- 
ply where  the  most  labor  is  to  be  performed.  If  our  coun- 
trywomen would  devote  more  attention  to  comfort  and  con< 
venience,  and  less  to  show,  it  would  be  a  great  improvement. 
Expensive  mirrors  and  pier-tables  in  the  parlor,  and  an  un- 
painted,  gloomy,  ill-furnished  kitchen,  not  unfreqaently  are 
found  under  the  same  roof. 

Another  important  item  in  systematic  economy  is,  the  ap- 
portioning of  regular  employment  to  the  various  members 
of  a  family.  If  a  housekeeper  can  secure  the  co-operation 
of  oZ^  her  family,  she  will  find  that  "  many  hands  make  light 
work.''  There  is  no  greater  mistake  than  in  bringing  up 
childi'en  to  feel  that  they  must  be  taken  care  of  and  waited 
on  by  othera,  without  any  corresponding  obligations  on  their 
part.  The  extent  to  which  young  children  can  be  made 
useful  in  ^  family  would  seem  surprising  to  those  who  have 
never  seen  a  systemcUic  and  regular  plan  for  utilizing  their 
services.  The  writer  has  been  in  a  family  where  a  little 
girl  of  eight  or  nine  years  of  age  washed  and  dressed  her- 
self and  young  brother,  and  made  their  small  beds,  before 
breakfast ;  set  and  cleared  all  the  tables  for  meals,  with  a 
little  help  from  a  grown  person  in  moving  tables  and  spread- 
ing cloths;  while  all  the  dusting  of  parlors  and  chambers 
was  also  neatly  performed  by  her.  A  brother  of  ten  years 
old  brought  In  and  piled  all  the  wood  used  in  the  kitchen 
and  parlor,  brushed  the  boots  and  shoes,  went  on  errands, 
and  took  all  the  care  of  the  poultry.  They  were  children 
whose  parents  could  afford  to  hire  servants  to  do  this,  but 
who  chose  to  have  their  children  grow  up  healthy  and  in- 


HABITS  OF  SYSTEM  AND  OBDXB.  289 

dustrionSy  while  proper  instraction,  system,  and  encoarage- 
ment,  made  these  services  rather  a  pleasure  than  otherwise 
to  the  children. 

Some  parents  pay  their  children  for  snch  services;  bat 
this  is  hazardonSy  as  tending  to  make  thiem  feel  th^t  they 
are  not  bound  to  be  helpful  without  pay,  and  also  as  tend- 
ing to  produce  a  hoarding,  money -making  spirit.  But 
where. children  have  no  hoarding  propensities,  and  need  to 
acquire  a. sense  of  the  value  of  property,  it  may  be  well  to 
let  them  earn  money  for  some  extra  services  rather  as  a  fa- 
vor. When  this  is  done,  they  should  be  taught  to  spend  it 
for  others  as  well  as  for  themselves;  and  in  this  way  a 
generous  and  liberal  spirit  will  be  cultivated. 

There  are  some  mothers  who  take  pains  to  teach  their 
boys  most  of  the  domestic  arts  which  their  sistere  learn. 
The  writer  has  seen  boys  mending  their  own  garments,  and 
aiding  their  mother  or  sisters  in  the  kitchen,  with  great 
skill  and  adroitness ;  and  at  an  early  age  they  usually  very 
much  relish  joining  in  such  occupations.  The  sons  of  such 
mothers,  in  their  college  life,  or  in  roaming  about  the  world, 
or  in  nursing  a  sick  wife  or  infant,  find  occasion  to  bless  the 
forethought  and  kindness  which  prepared  them  for  such 
emergencies.  Fbw  things  are  in  worse  taste  than  for  a  man 
needlessly  to  busy  himself  in  women's  work ;  and  yet  a  man 
never  appears  in  a  more  interesting  attitude  than  when,  by 
skill  in  such  matters,  he  can  save  a  mother  or  wife  from  care 
and  suffering.  The  more  a  boy  is  taught  to  use  his  hands 
in  every  variety  of  domestic  employment,  the  more  his  fac- 
ulties, both  of  mind  and  body,  are  developed;  for  mechan- 
ical pursuits  exercise  the  intellect  as  well  as  the  hands. 
The  early  training  of  New-England  boys,  in  which  they 
turn  their  iiand  to  almost  every  thing,  is  one  great  reason 
of  the  quick  perceptions,  versatility  of  mind,  and  mechan- 
ical skill,  for  which  that  portion  of  our  countrymen  is  distin- 
guished. 

It  is  equally  impoi*tant  that  young  girls  should  be  taught 
to  do  some  species  of  handicraft  that  generally  is  done  by 
men,  and  especially  with  reference  to  the  frequent  emigra- 
tion to  new  territories  where  well -trained  mechanics  are 

13 


290  THE   UOUftEKSSPXB'  AND  GTBALTHKSSPER.. 

scarce.  To  hang  wall- papeiy  repair  locksr,  glaze  windows, 
and  mend  yarions  boasehold  articles,  require  a  skill  in  the 
use  of  tools  which  every  yonng  girl  should  acquire.  If  she 
never  has  any  occasion  to  apply  this  knowledge  and  skill  by 
her  own  hands^she  will  often  find  it  needful  in  directing  and 
superintending  incompetent  workmen. 

The  writer  has  known  one  mode  of  systematizing  the  aid 
of  the  older  children  in  a  family,  which,  in  some  cases  of 
very  large  families,  it  may  be  well  to  imitata  In  the  case 
referred  to,  when  the  oldest  daughter  was  eight  or  nine 
years  old,  an  infant  sister  was  given  to  her  as  her  special 
charge.  She  tended  it,  made  and  mended  its  clothes,  taught 
it  to  read,  and  was  its  nurse  and  guardian  through  all  its 
childhood.  Another  infant  was  given  to  the  next  daughter, 
and  thus  the  children  were  all  paired  in  this  interesting  re- 
lation. In  addition  to  the  relief  thus  afforded  to  the  moth- 
er, the  elder  children  were  in  this  way  qualified  for  their  fu- 
ture domestic  relations,  and  both  older  and  younger  bound 
to  each  other  by  peculiar  ties  of  tenderness  and  gratitude. 

In  offering  these  examples  of  various  modes  of  systematiz- 
ing, one  suggestion  may  be  worthy  of  attention.  It  is  nOt 
unfrequently  the  case  that  ladies  who  find  themselves  cum- 
bered with  oppressive  cares,  after  heading  "remarks  on  the 
benefits  of  system,  immediately  commence  the  task  of  ar- 
ranging their  pui-suits  with  great  vigor  and  hope.  They  di- 
vide the  day  into  regular  periods,  and  give  each  hour  its 
duty;  they  systematize  their  work,  and  endeavor  to  bring 
every  thing  into  a  regular  routine.  But  in  a  short  time 
they  find  themselves  baffled,  discouraged,  and  disheartened, 
and  finally  relapse  into  their  former  desultory  ways,  in  a 
sort  of  resigned  despair. 

The  difficulty  in  such  cases  is,  that  they  attempt  too 
much  at  a  time.  There  is  nothing  which  so  much  depends 
upon  hahit  as  a  systematic  mode  of  pei*forming  duty;  and 
where  no  such  habit  has  been  formed,  it  is  impossible  for  a 
novice  to  start  at  once  into  a  universal  mode  of  system- 
atizmg,  which  none  but  an  adept  could  carry  through.  The 
only  way  for  such  persons  is  to  begin  with  a  little  at  a  time. 
Let  them  select  Some  three  or  four  things,  and  resolutely  at- 


HABITS   OF  SYSTESi   AND   ORDEB.  291 

tempt  to  conquer  at  these  points.  In  time,  a  habit  will  be 
formed  of  doing  a  few  things  at  regular  periods,  and  in  a 
systematic  way.  Then  it  will  be  easy  to  add  a  few  more; 
and  thus,  by  a  gradual  process,  the  object  can  be  secured, 
which  would  be  yaio  to  attempt  by  a  more  summary  course. 

Early  rising  is  almost  an  indispensable  condition  to  suc- 
cess in  such  an  effort ;  but  where  a  woman  lacks  either  the 
health  or  the  energy  to  secure  a  period  for  devotional  duties 
before  breakfast,  let  her  select  that  hour  of  the  day  in  which 
she  will  be  least  liable  to  interruption,  and  let  her  then  seek 
strength  and  wisdom  from  the  only  true  Source.  At  this 
time  let  her  take  a  pen,  atid  make  a  list  of  all  the  things 
which  she  considers  as  duties.  Then  let  a  calculation  be 
made  whether  there  be  time  enough,  in  the  day  or  the  week, 
for  all  these  duties.  If  there  be  not,  let  the  least  important 
be  stricken  from  the  list,  as  not  being  dutii^sTand  therefore 
to  be  omitted.  In  doing  this,  let  a.,wonian  remember  that, 
though  "  what  we  shall  eat,  and  what  we  shall  drink,  and 
wherewithal  we  shall  be  clothed,''  are  matters  requiring  due 
attention,  they  are  very  apt  to  obtain  a  wrong  relative  im- 
portance, while  intellectual,  social,  and  moral  interests  re- 
ceive too  little  regard. 

In  this  country,  eating,  dressing,  and  household  furniture 
and  ornaments,  take  far  too  large  a  place  in  the  estimate  of 
relative  importance;  and  it  is  probable  that  most  women 
could  modify  their  views  and  practice  so  as  to  come  nearer 
to  the  Saviour's  requirements.  No  woman  has  a  right  to 
put  a  stitch  of  ornament  on  any  article  of  dress  or  furniture, 
or  to  provide  one  superfluity  in  food,  until  she  is  sure  she 
can  secure  time  for  all  her  social,  intellectual,  benevolent, 
and  religious  duties.  If  a  woman  will  take  the  trouble  to 
make  such  a  calculation  as  this,  she  will  usually  find  that 
she  has  time  enough  to  perform  all  her  duties  easily  and 
well. 

It  is  impossible  for  a  conscientious  woman  to  secure  that 
peaceful  mind  and  cheerful  enjoyment  of  life  which  all 
should  seek,  who  is  constantly  finding  her  duties  jarring 
with  each  other,  and  much  remaining  undone  which  she 
feels  that  she  ought  to  do.     In  consequence  of  this,  there 


292      THE  HOUSEKSEPEB  AND  HSALTHESEPEB. 

will  be  a  secret  aneasiness  which  will  throw  a  shade  over 
the  whote  current  of  life,  never  to  be  removed  till  she  so 
efficiently  defines  and  regalates  her  duties  that  she  can  ful- 
fill them  all. 

And  here  the  writer  would  urge  upon  young  ladies  the 
importance  of  forming  habits  of  system  while  unembarrassed 
with  those  multiplied  cares  which'  will  make  the  task  so 
much  more  difficult  and  hopeless.  Every  young  lady  can 
systematize  her  pursuits^  to  a  certain  extent.  She  can  have 
a  particular  day  for  mending  her  wardrobe,  and  for  arran- 
ging her  trunks,  closets,  and  drawers.  She  can  keep  her 
work-basket,  her  desk  at  school,  and  all  her  other  conven- 
iences, in  their  proper  places  and  in  regular  order.  She  can 
have  regular  periods  for  reading,  walking,  visiting,  study, 
and  domestic  pursuits.  And  by  following  this  method  iii 
youth,  she  will  form  a  taste  for  regularity  and  a  habit  of 
system  which  will  prove  a  blessing  to  her  through  life. 


HEALTH  OF  lOND.  208 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

HEALTH    OF    MIKD. 

There  is  such  an  iDtimate  connection  between  the  body 
and  mind,  that  the  health  of  one  can  not  be  preserved  with- 
out a  proper  care  of  the  other.  And  it  is  from  a  neglect  of 
thfs  principle  that  some  of  the  most  exemplary  and  consci- 
entious persons  in  the  world  suffer  a  thousand  mental  ago- 
nies from  a  diseased  state  of  body,  while  others  ruin  the 
health  of  the  body  by  neglecting  the  proper  care  of  the 
mind. 

When  the  mind  is  excited  by  earnest  intellectual  effort,  or 
by  strong  passions,  the  blood  rushes  to  the  head  and  the 
brain  is  excited.  Sir  Astley  Cooper  records  that,  in  exam- 
ining the  brain  of  a  young  man  who  had  lost  a  portion  of 
his  skull,  whenever  '^he  was  agitated  by  some  opposition  to 
his  wishes,^' ''  the  blood  was  sent  with  increased  force  to  his 
bi-ain,''  and  the  pulsations  *'  became  frequent  and  violent.'' 
The  same  effect  was  produced  by  any  intellectual  effort ; 
and  the  flushed  countenance  which  attends  earnest  study  or 
strong  emotions  of  interest  of  any  kind,  is  an  external  indi- 
cation of  the  suffused  state  of  the  brain  from  such  causes. 

In  exhibiting  the  causes  which  -injure  the  health  of  the 
mind,  we  shall  find  them  to  be  partly  physical,  partly  intel- 
lectual, and  partly  moral. 

The  first  cause  of  mental  disease  and  suffering  is  not  un- 
frequently  in  the  want  of  a  proper  supply  of  duly  oxygen- 
ized blood.  It  has  been  shown  that  the  blood,  in  passing 
through  the  lungs,  is  purified  by  the  oxygen  of  the  air  com- 
bining with  the  superabundant  hydrogen  and  carbon  of  the 
venous  blood,  thus  forming  carbonic  acid  and  water,  which 
are  expired  into  the  atmosphere.  Every  pair  of  lungs  is 
constantly  withdrawing  from  the  suiTOunding  atmosphere 
its  healthful  principle,  and  returning  one  which  is  injurious 
to  human  life. 


294      THE  HOUSEKXXPSB  XND  HEALTHKSEPSB. 

WheOy  by  confinement  and  this  process,  the  air  is  deprived 
of  its  appropriate  sapply  of  oxygen,  the  .purification  of  the 
blood  is  interrupted,  and  it  passes,  without  being  properly 
prepared,  into  the  brain,  producing  languor,  restlessness,  and 
inability  to  exercise  the  intellect  and  feelings.  Whenever, 
therefore,  persons  sleep  in  a  close  apartment,  or  remain  for^a 
length  of  time  in  a  crowded  or  ill-ventilated  room,  a  roost 
pernicious  influence  is  exerted  on  the  brain,  and,  through 
this,  on  the  mind.  A  person  who  is  oflen  exposed  to  such 
influences  can  never  enjoy  that  elasticity  and  vigor  of  mind 
which  is  one  of  the  chief  indications  of  its  health.  This  is 
the  reason  why  all  rooms  for  religious  meetings,  and  all 
school-rooms  and  sleeping  apartments,  should  be  so  contrived 
as  to  secure  a  constant  supply  of  fresh  air  from  without. 
The  minister  who  preaches  in  a  crowded  and  ill-ventilated 
apartment  loses  ipuch  of  his  power  to  feel  and  to  speak; 
while  the  audience  are  equally  reduced  in  their  capability  of 
attending.  The  teacher  who  confines  children  in-  a  close 
apanment  diminishes  their  ability  to  study,  or  to  attend  to 
instructions.  And  the  person  who  habitually  sleeps  in  a 
close  room  impaira  mental  energy  in  a  similar  degree.  It  is 
not  unfrequently  the  case  that  depression  of  spirits  and  stu- 
por of  intellect  are  occasioned  solely  by  inattention  to  this 
subject. 

Another  cause  of  mental  disease  is-the  excessive  exercise 
of  the  intellect  or  feelings.  If  th6  eye  is  taxed  beyond  its 
strength  by  protracted  use,  its  blood-vessels  become  gorged, 
and  the  bloodshot  appearance  warns  of  the  excess  and  the 
need  of  rest.  The  brain  is  aflected  in  a  similar  manner  by 
excessive  use,  though  the  sufiering  and  inflamed  organ  can 
not  make  its  appeal  to  the  eye.  But  there  are  some  indica- 
tions which  ought  never  to  be  misuuderstood  or  disregard- 
ed. In  cases  of  pupils  at  school  or  at  college,  a  diseased 
state,  from  over  -  action,  is  often  manifested  by  increased 
cleaiTiess  of  mind,  and  temporary  case  and  vigor  of  mental 
action.  In  one  instance,  known  to  the  writer,  a  most  exem- 
plary and  industrious  pupil,  anxious  to  improve  every  hour, 
and  ignorant  or  unmindful  of  the  laws  of  health,  first  maui- 
fested  the  diseased  state  of  her  brain  and  mind  by  demands- 


HEALTH   OF  MUTD.  295 

for  more  studies,  and  a  saddea  and  earnest  activity  in  plan- 
ning modes  of  improvement  for  herself  and  others.  When 
warned  of  her  danger,  she  protested  that  "she  never  was  bet- ' 
ter  in  her  life ;  that  she  took  regular  exercise  in  the  open  air, 
went  to  bed  in  season,  slept  soundly,  and  felt  perfe<^tly  well ; 
that  her  mind  was  never  before  so  bright  and  clear,  and 
study  never  so  easy  and  delightful.  And  at  this  time  she 
was  on  the  verge  of  derangement,  from  which  she  was  saved 
only  by  an  entire  cessation  of  all  intellectual  efforts. 

A  similar  case  occurred,  under  the  eye  of  the  writer,  from 
overexcited  feelings.  It  was  during  a-  time  of  unusual  re- 
ligious interest  in  the .  community,  and  the  mental  disease 
was  first  manifested  by  the  pupil  bringing  her  hymn-book 
or  Bible  to  the  class-room,  and  making  it  her  constant  re- 
sort in  every  interval  of  school  duty.  It  finally  became  im- 
possible to  convince  her  that  it  was  her  duty  to  attend  to 
any  thing  else;  her  conscience  became  morbidly  sensitive, 
her  perceptions  indistinct, her  deductions  unreasonable;  and 
nothing  but  entire  change  of  scene  and  exercise,  and  occu- 
pation of  her  mind  by  amusement,  saved  her.  When  the 
health  of  the  brain  was  restored,  she  found  that  she  could 
attend  to  the  '^one  thing  needful,"  not  only  without  inter- 
ruption of  duty  or  injury  to  health,  but  rather  so  as  to  pro- 
mote both.  Clergymen  and  teachers  need  most  carefully  to 
notice  and  guard  against  the  dangers  here  alluded  to. 

Any  such  attention  to  religion  as  prevents  the  pei-form- 
ance  of  daily  duties  and  needful  relaxation  is  dangerous,  and 
tends  to  produce  such  a  state  of  the  brain  as  makes  it  im- 
possible to* feel  or  judge  correctly.  And  when  any  morbid 
and  uni*easonable  pertinacity  appears,  much  exercise  and 
engagement  in  other  interesting  pui*suits  should  be  urged, 
as  the  only  mode  of  securing  the  religious  benefits  aimed  at. 
And  whenever  any  mind  is  oppressed  with  care,  anxiety,  or 
sorrow,  the  amouht  of  active  exercise  in  the  fresh  air  should 
be  gi*eatly  increased,  that  the  action  of  the  muscles  may 
withdraw  the  blood  which,  in  such  seasons,  is  constantly 
tending  too  much  to  the  brain.  At  the  sam'e  time,  innocent 
and  healthful  amusement  should  be  urged  as  a  duty. 

There  has  been  a  most  appalling  amount  of  suffering,  de-> 


296      THB  HOUSSKEBFSB  AND  HBALTHKBSPEB. 

rangementy  disease,  and  deatli,  occasioned  by  a  want  of  at- 
tention to  this  subject^  in  teachers  and  parents.  Uncommon 
precocity  in  children  is  usually  the  result  of  an  unhealthy 
state  of  the  brain ;  and  in  such  cases  medical  men  would 
now  direct  that  the  wonderful  child  should  be  deprived  of 
all  books  and  study,  and  turned  to  play  out  in  the  fresh  air. 
Instead  of  this,  parents  frequently  add  fuel  to  the  fever  of 
the  brain,  by  supplying  constant  mental  stimulus,  until  the 
victim  finds  refuge  in  idiocy  or  an  early  grave.  Where  Such 
fatal  results  do  not  occur,  the  brain  in  many  cases  is  so 
weakened  that  the  prodigy  of  infancy  sinks  below  the  medi- 
um of  intellectual  powers  in  after-life. 

In  our  colleges,  too,  many  of  the  most  promising  minds 
sink  to  an  early  grave,  or  drag  out.  a  miserable  existence^ 
from  this  same  cause.  And  it  is  an  evil  as  yet  little  allevi- 
ated by  the  increase  of  physiological  knowledge.  Every 
college  and  professional  school,  and  every  seminary  for 
young  ladies,  needs  a  medical  man  or  woman,  not  only  to 
lecture  on  physiology  and  the  laws  of  health,  but  empowered 
by  official  capacity  to  investigate  the  case  of  every  pupil, 
and,  by  authority,  to  enforce  such  a  course  of  studyj  exercise, 
and  repose  as  the  physical  system  requires.  The  writer  has 
found  by  experience  that  in  a  large  institution  there  is  one 
class  of  pupils  who  need  to  be  restrained  by  penalties  from 
late  hours  and  excessive  study,  as  much  as  another  class 
need  stimulus  to  industry. 

'  Under  the  head  of  excessive  mental  action  must  be  placed 
the  indulgence  of  the  imagination  in  novel-reading  and 
'*  castle-building."  This  kind  of  stimulus,  unless  *  counter- 
balanced by  physical  exercise,  not  only  wastes  time  and  en- 
ergies, but  undermines  the  vigor  of  the  nervous  system. 
The  imagination  was  designed  by  onr  wise  Creator  as  a 
charm  and  stimulus  to  animate  to  benevolent  activity,  and 
its  perverted  exercise  seldom  fails  to  bring  a  penalty. 

Another  cause  of  mental  disease  is  the  want  of  the  appro- 
priate exercise  of  the  various  faculties  of  the  mind.  On  this 
point  Dr.  Combe  remarks:  "We  have  seen  that,  by  disuse, 
muscles  become  emaciated,  bone  soflens,  blood-vessels  are 
obliterated,  and  nerves  lose  their  characteristic  structure. 


HEALTH  OF  MU^D.  297 

The  brain  is  no  exception  to  this  general  rule.  The  tone  of 
it  is  also  impaired  by  permanent  inactivity,  and  it  becomes 
less  fit  to  manifest  the  mental  powers  with  readiness  a'nd 
energy."  It  is  **  the  withdrawal  of  the  stimnlas  necessary 
for  its  healthy  exercise  which  renders  solitary  confinement 
so  severe  a  pnnishment,  even  to  the  most  daring  minds.  It 
is  a  lower  degree  of  the  same  cause  which  renders  continu- 
ous seclusion  from  society  so  injurious  to  both  mental  and 
bodily  health.'' 

''  Inactivity  of  intellect  and  of  feeling  is  a  very  frequent 
predisposing  cause  of  every  form  of  nervous  disease.  For 
demonstrative  evidence  of  this  position,  we  have  only  to  look 
at  the  numerous  victims  to  be  found  among  persons  who 
have  no  call  to  exertion  in  gaining  the  means  of  subsistence^ 
and  no  objects  of  interest  on  which  to  exercise  their  mental 
faculties,  and  who  consequently  sink  into  a  state  of  mental 
sloth  and  nervous  weakness."  "  If  we  look  abroad  upon  so- 
ciety, we  shall  find  innumerable  examples  of  mental  and 
nervous  debility  from  this  cause.  When  a  person  of  some 
mental  capacity  is  confined  for  a  long  time  to  an  unvarying 
round  of  employment  which  affords  neither  scope  nor  stim- 
ulus for  .one  half  of  the  faculties,  and,  from  want  of  educa- 
tion or  society,  has  no  external  resources ;  the  mental  pow- 
ers, for  want  of  exercise,  become  blunted,  and  the  perceptions 
slow  and  dull."  '^The  intellect  and  feelings,  not  being  pro- 
vided with  interests  external  to  themselves,  must  either  be- 
come inactive  and  weak,  or  work  upon  themselves  and  be- 
come diseased." 

*'The  most  frequent  victims  of  this  kind  of  predisposition 
are  females  of  the  middle  and  higher  ranks,  especially  those 
of  a  nervous  constitution  and  good  natural  abilities;  but 
who,  frpm  an  ill-directed  education,  possess  nothing  more 
solid  than  mere  accomplishments,  and  have  no  materials  for 
thought,"  and  no  ''occupation  to  excite  interest  or  demand 
attention."  "The  liability  of  such  persons  to  melancholy, 
hysteria,  hypochondriasis,  and  other  varieties  of  mental  dis- 
tress, really  depends  on  a  state  of  irritability  of  the  brain,  in- 
duced by  its  imperfect  exercise." 

These  remarks  of  a  medical  roan  illustrate  the  principles 

13* 


298      THE  HOUSBKESPBB  AND  HEALTHKBBPSB. 


/ 


before  indicated — namely^  that  the  demand  of  Christianity, 
that  we  live  to-  save  from  eternal  evils  and  promote  the 
highest  and  eternal  happiness  of  onr  race,  haff  for  its  aim 
not  only  the  general  good,  bat  the  highest  happiness  of  the 
individaal  in  offering  abundant  exercise  for  all  the  noblest 
faculties.  •  ' 

A  person  possessed  of  wealth,  who  has  nothing  more  no- 
ble to  engage  attention  than  seeking  personal  enjoyment, 
subjects  the  mental  powers  .and  moral  feelings  to  a  degree 
of  inactivity  utterly  at  war  with  health  and  mind.  And  the 
greater  the  capacities,  the  greater  are  the  sufferings  wfiich 
result  from  this  cause.  Any  one'  who  has  read  the  misan- 
thropic wailings  of  Lord  Byron  has  seen  the  necessary  result 
of  great  and  noble  powera  bereft  of  their  appropriate  exer- 
cise, and,  in  consequence,  becoming  sources  of  the  keenest 
suffering. 

It  is  this  view  of  the  subject  which  has  often  awakened 
feelings  of  sorrow  and  anxiety  in  the  mind  of  the  writer, 
while  aiding  in  the  development  and  education  of  superior 
feminine  minds  in  the  wealthier  circles.  Not  because  there 
are  not  noble  objects  for  interest  and  effort  abundant,  and 
within  reach  of  such  minds,  but  because  long-established 
custom  has  made  it  seem  so  quixotic  to  the  majority,  even 
of  the  professed  followers  of  Christ,  for  a  woman  of  wealth 
to  practice  any  great  self-denial,  that  few  have  independence 
of  mind  and  Christian  principle  sufficient  to  overcome  such 
an  influence.  The  more  a  mind  has  its  powers  developed, 
the  more  does  it  aspire  and  pine  after  some  object  woilhy 
of  its  energies  and  affections ;  and  they  are  commonplace 
and  phlegmatic  characters  who  are  most  free  fvom  such 
deep-seated  wants.  Many  a  young  woman,  of  fine  genius 
and  elevated  sentiment,  finds  a  charm  in  Lord  Byron's  writ- 
ings, because  they  present  a  glowing  picture  of  what,  to  a 
certain  extent,  must  be  felt  by  every  well-developed  mind 
which  has  no  nobler  object  in  life  than  the  pursuit  of  self- 
gratification. 

If  young  ladies  of  wealth  could  pursue  their  education 
under  the  full  conviction  that  the  increase  of  tlieir  powers 
and  advantages  increased  their  obligations  to  use  all  for  the 


HEALTH   OF  lOND.  2919 

great  -and  sublime  end  fcr  which  our  Saviour  toiled  and 
jjuffered,  and  with,. some  plan  of  benevolent  enterprise  in  • 
view,  what  pej^:itio.tiiVe8  of  interest  would  be  added  to  their 
daily  pursuits !  And. what  blessed  results  would  follow  to 
our  beloved  countiy  if  all  well-educated  women  earned  out 
the!  principles  of  Christianity  in  the  exercise  of  their  devel- 
oped powers  I  . 

The  benevolent  activities  called  forth  in  our  late  dreadful 
war  illustrate  the  blessed  influence  on  character  and  happi- 
ness in  having  a  noble  object  for  which  to  labor  and  suffer. 
In  illustration  of  this  may  be  mentioned  the  experienca  of 
one  of  the  noble  women  who,  in  a  sickly  climate  and  fervid 
season,  devoted  herself  to  the  ministries  of  a  military  hospi- 
tal. Separated  from  an  adored  husband,  deprived  of  wonted 
comforts  and  luxuries,  and  toiling  in  humble  and  unwonted 
labors,  she  yet  recalls  this  as  one  of  the  happiest  periods  of 
her  life.  And  it  was  not  the  mere  exercise  of  benevolence 
and  piety  in  ministering  comfort  and  relieving  sufiering. 
It  was,  still  more,  the  elevated  enjoyment  which  only  an 
enlarged  and  cultivated  mind  can  attain,  in  the  inspirations 
of  grand  and  far-reaching  results  purchased  by  such  sacrifice 
and- suffering.  It  was  in  aiding  to  save  her  well-loved  coun- 
try from  impending  ruin,  and  to  preserve  to  coming  genera- 
tions the  blessings  of  true  liberty,  self-government,  and  the 
Christian  life  by  which  toils  and  suffering  became  triumphant 
joys. 

Every  Christian  woman  who  "  walks  by  faith  and  not  by 
sight,"  who  looks  forward  to  the  results  of  self-sacrificing 
labor  for  the  ignorant  and  sinful  as  they  will  enlarge  and 
expand  through  everlasting  ages,  may  rise  to  the  same  ele- 
vated sphere  of  experience  and  happiness. 

On  the  contrary,  the  more  highly  cultivated  the  mind 
devoted  to  mere  selfish  enjoyment,  the  more  are  the  sources 
of  true  happiness  closed,  and  the  soul  lefl  to  helpless  empti- 
ness and  unrest. 

The  indications  of  a  diseased  mind,  owing  to  the  want 
of  the  propel*  exercise  of  its  powers,  are  apathy,  discontent, 
a  restless  longing  for  excitement,  a  ci*aving  for  unattainable 
good,  a  diseased  and  morbid  action  of  the  imagination,  dis- 


300      THE  HOUSBKSSPSB  AND  HXALTHKSEPSB. 

satisfaction  with  the  world^  and  factitious  interest  in  trifles 
which  the  mind  feels  to  be  unworthy  of  its  powers.  Such 
minds  sometimes  seek  alleviation  in  exciting  amusements; 
others  resort  to  the  grosser  enjoyments  of  sense.  Oppressed 
with  the  extremes  of  languor,  or  over^excitement,  or  apathy, 
the  1[>ody  fails  under  the  wearing  process,  and  adds  new 
causes  of  suffering  to  the  mind.  Such  the  compassionate 
Saviour  calls  to  his  service,  in  the  appropriate  terms,  ^  Come 
unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  iare  heavy  laden,  and  I  will 
give  you  rest.  Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me,'' 
'^and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.'' 


CABB  OF  THS  AGED.  301 


CHAPTER  XVn. 

CABB    OF    THB    AGED. 

One  of  the  most,  interesting  and  instructive  illostrations 
of  the  design  of  oar  Creator,  in  the  institution  of  the  family 
BtatOyis  the  preservation  of  the  aged  after  their  faculties  de- 
cay and  usefulness  in  ordinary  modes  seems  to  be  ended. 
By  most  persons  this  period  of  infirmities  and  uselessness  is 
anticipated  with  apprehension,  especially  in  the  case  of 
those  who  have  lived  an  active,  useful  life,  giving  largely 
of  service,  to  others,  and  dependent  for  most  resources  of 
enjoyment  on  their  own  energies. 

To  lose  the  resources  of  sight  or  hearing,  to  become  feeble 
in  body,  so  as  to  depend  on  the  ministries  of  others,  and 
finally,  to  gradually  decay  in  mental  forcd  and  intelligence, 
to  many  seems  far  worse  than  death.  Multitudes  have 
prayed  to  be  taken  from  this  life  when  their  usefulness  is 
thus  ended. 

But  a  true  view  of  the  design  of  the  family  state,  and  of 
the  ministry  of  the  aged  and  helpless,  in  carrying  out  this 
design,  would  greatly  lessen  such  apprehensions,  and  might 
be  made  a  source  of  pure  and  elevated  enjoyment. 

The  Christian  virtues  of  patience  with  the  unreasonable,- 
of  self-denying  labor  for  the  weak,  and  of  sympathy  with 
the  afflicted,  are  dependent,  to  a  great  degree,  on  cultivation 
and  habit,  and  these  can  be  gained  only  in  circumstances  de- 
manding the  daily  exercise  of  these  graces.  In  this  aspect, 
continued  life  in  the  aged  and  infirm  should  be  regarded  as 
a  blessing  and  privilege  to  a  family,  especially  to  the  young, 
and  the  cultivation  of  the  graces  that  are  demanded  by  that 
relation  should  be  made  a  definite  and  interesting  part  of 
their  education.  A  few  of  the  methods  to  be  attempted  fof 
this  end  will  be  suggested. 

In  the  first  place,  the  object  for  which  the  aged  are  pre- 
i^rved  in  life,  when  in  many  cases  they  would  rejoice  to  de- 


302      THB  HOUSSKESPEB  AND  BSALTHKXEPEB. 

part,  should  be  definitely  kept  in  recollection,  and  a  sense 
of  gratitude  and  obligation  be  cultivated..  They  should  be 
looked  iip  to  and  treated  as  ministers  sustained  by  our 
Heavenly  father  in  a  painful  experience,  ex{>ressly  for  the 
good  of  those  around  them.  This  appreciation  of  their  min- 
istry and  usefulness  will  greatly  lessen  their  trials,  and  im- 
part consolation.  If,  in  hours  of  weariness  and  infirmity,  they 
wonder  why  they  are  kept  in  a  useless  and  helpless  state  to 
burden  others  around,  they  should  be  assured  that  they  are 
not  useless;  and  this  not  only  by  word,  but,  better  still, by 
the  manifestation  of  those  virtues  which  such  opportunities 
alone  can  secure. 

Another  mode  of  cheering  the  aged  is  to  engage  them  in 
the  domestic  games  and  sports  which  unite  the  old  and  the 
young  in  amusement.  Many  a  weaiy  hour  may  thus  be  en- 
livened for  the  benefit  of  all  concerned.  And  here  will  oflen 
occur  opportunities  of  self-denying  benevolence  in  relinquish- 
ing personal  pursuits  and  gratification  thus^to  promote  the 
enjoyment  of  the  infirm  and  dependent.  Reading  aloud  is 
often  a  great  source  of  enjoyment  to  those  who  by  age  are 
deprived  of  readidg  for  themselves.  So  the  effort  to  gather 
news  of  the  neighborhood  and  impart  it,  is  another  mode  of 
relieving  those  deprived  of  social  gatherings. 

There  is  no  period  in  life  when  those^  courtesies  of  good- 
breeding  which  recognize  the  relations  of  superior  and  infe- 
rior should  be  more  carefully  cherished  than  when  there  is 
need  of  showing  them  toward  those  of  advancing  age.  To 
those  who  have  controlled  a  household,  and  still  more  to 
those  who  in  public  life  have  been  honored  and  admired, 
the  decay  of  mental  po Wei's  is  peculiarly  trying,  and  every 
effoit  should  be  made  to  lessen  the  tnal  by  courteous  atten- 
tion to  their  opinions,  and  by  avoiding  all  attempts  to  con- 
trovert them,  or  to  make  evident  any  weakness  or  fallacy  in 
their  conversation. 

In  regard  to  the  decay  of  bodily  or  mental  faculties,  much 
more  can  be  done  to  prevent  or  retard  them  than  is  gen- 
erally supposed,  and  some  methods  for  this  end  which  have 
been  gained  by  observation  or  experience  will  be  presented. 

As  the  exercise  of  all  our  faculties  tends  to  increase  their 


(UBS  OF  THB  AGED.  338 

power,  unless  it  be  carried  to  excess,  it  is  very  importaDt 
that  the  aged  should  be  provided  with  useful  employment 
suited  to  their  strength  and  capacity.  Nothing  hastens  de- 
cay 80  fast  as  to  remove  the  stimulvs  of  useful  activity.  It 
should  become  a  study  with  those  who  have  the  care  of  the 
aged  to  interest  them  in  some  useful  pursuit,  and  to  con- 
vince them  that  they  are  in  some  measure  actively  contrib- 
uting to  the  general  welfare.  In  the  country  and  in  fami- 
lies where  the  larger  part  of  the  domestic  labor  is  done 
without  sei'vants,  it  is  very  easy  to  keep  up  an  interest  in 
domestic  industrial  employments.  The  tending  of  a  small 
garden  in  summer,  the  preparation  of  fuel  and  food,  the 
mending  of  household  utensils — these  and  many  other  occu- 
pations of  the  hands  will  keep  alive  activity  and  interest  in 
a  man;  while  for  women  there  are  still  more  varied  re- 
sources. There  is  nothing  that  so  soon  hastens  decay  and 
lends  acerbity  to  age  as  giving  up  all  business -and  respon- 
sibility, and  every  mode  possible  should  be  devised  to  pre- 
vent this  result 

As  age  advances,  all  the  bodily  functions  move  more 
slowly,  and  consequently  the  generation  of  animal  heat,  by 
the  union  of  oxygen  and  carbon  in  the  capillaries,  is  in 
smaller  proportion  than  in  the  midday  of  life.  For  this  rea- 
son some  practices,  safe  for  the  vigorous,  must  be  relin- 
quished by  the  aged ;  and  one  of  these  is  the  use  of  the  cold 
bath.  It  has  often  been  the  case  that  rheumatism  has  been 
caused  by  neglect  of  this  caution^  More  than  ordinary  care 
should  be  taken  to  preserve  animal  heat  in  the  aged,  espe- 
cially in  the  hands  and  the  feet. 

In  many  families  will  be  found  an  aged  brother,  or  sister, 
or  other  relative  who  has  no  home,  and  no  claim  to  a  refuge 
in  the  family  circle  but  that  of  kindred.  Sometimes  they 
are  poor  and  homeless,  for  want  of  a  faculty  for  self-support-  « 
ing  business ;  and  sometimes  they  have  peculiarities  of  per- 
son, or  disposition  which  render  their  society  undesirable. 
These  are  cases  where  the  pitying  tenderness  of  the  Saviour 
should  be  remembered,  and  for  his  sake  patient  kindness 
and  tender  care  be  given,  and  he  will  graciously  accept  it 
as  an  offering  of  love  and^  duty  to  himself.     "  Inasmuch  as 


304      THE  HOUSEKXXPSB  AJH)   HEALTHKEEPEB. 

ye  have  done  it  to  the  least  of  these  my. brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  to  me."  :       ; 

It  is  sometimes  the  case  that  even  parents  in  old  age  have 
had  occasion  to  say,  with  the  forsaken  King  Lear/*  How 
sharper  than  a  serpent's  tooth  it  is  to  have  a  thankless 
child!"  It  is  right  training  in  early  life  alone  that  will 
save  from  this. 

In  the  opening  of  China  and  the  probable  inflax  of  its 
people,  there  is  one  cause  for  congratulation  to  a  nation  that 
is  failing  in  the  virtue  of  reverence.  The  Chinese  are  dis- 
tinguished above  all  other  nations  for  their  respect  for  the 
aged,  and  especially  for  their  reverence  for  aged  parents  and 
conformity  to  their  authority,  even  to  the  last.  This  virtue 
is  cultivated  to  a  degree  that  is  remarkable,  and  has  pro- 
duced singular  and  favorable  results  on  the  national  charac- 
ter, which  it  is  hojped  may  be  imparted  to  the  land  to  which 
they  are  flocking  in  such  multitudes.  For  with  all  their 
peculiarities  of  pagan  philosophy  and  their  Oriental  eccen- 
tricities of  custom  and  practical  life,  they  are  everywhere 
renowned  for  their  imifortn  and  elegant  courtesy — a  most 
commendable  virtue,  and  one  arising  from  habitual  defer- 
ence to  the  aged  more  than  from  any  other  source. 

But  every  person,  in  approaching  the  trials  and  helpless- 
ness of  age,  needs  to  consider  that  the  very  performance  of 
these  duties  toward  one's  self  by  all  around  may  tend  to  in- 
duce a  selfish  and  exacting  spirit,  or  querulous  complaints 
at  forgetfulness  or  neglect  And,  constant  service  and  pet- 
ting may  tempt  to  self-indulgent  uselessness.  Approaching 
age  sometimes  leads  to  the  relinquishment  of  active  life;  and 
this  tends  to  induce  imbecility  of  body  and  giind,  which,  like 
all  instruments,  are  kept  bright  byu^e.  The  course  of  wis- 
dom is  to  redouble  exertions  in  cultivating  self-denying  re- 
gard for  the  convenience  and  comfort  of  others,  and  perpetu- 
ating, as  far  as  possible,  useful  labors. 

One  of  the  most  lovely  and  beautiful  features  in  a  family 
circle.is  the  aged  father  or  mother  sympathizing  in  the  joys 
and  sorrows  of  the  youngs  and  watching  for  occasions  to 
please  and  serve  all  around. 


THE  CABB  OF  l50MSSTIC  ANIMALS.  305 


CHAPTER  XVm. 

THS   CA^E   OF  DOMESTIC  ANIMALS. 

One  of  the  most  interestinsr  illastrations  of  the  desisrn  of 
our  benevolent  Creator  in  establishing  the  family  state  is 
the  nature  of  the  domestic  animals  connected  with  it.  At 
the, very  dawn  of  life^  the  infant  watches  with  delight  the 
graceful  gambols  of  the  kitten,  and  soon  makes  it  a  play- 
mate. Meantime,  its  outcries  when  hurt  appeal  to  kindly 
sympathy,  and  its  sharp  claws  to  fear;  while  the  child's 
mother  has  a  constant  opportunity  to  inculcate  kindness 
and  care  for  weak  and  ignorant  creatures.  Then  the  dog 
becomes  the  outdoor  playmate  and  guardian  of  early  child- 
hood, and  he  also  guards  himself  by  cries  of-  pain,  and  pro- 
tects himself  by  his  teeth.  At  the  same  time,  his  faithful 
loving  nature  and  caresses  awaken  corresponding  tender- 
ness and  care ;  while  the  parent,  again,  has  a  daily  oppor- 
tunity to  inculcate  these  virtues  toward  the  helpless  and  de- 
pendent. As  the  child  increases  in  knowledge  and  reason, 
•the  horse,  cpws,  poultry,  and  other  domestic  animals  come 
tinder  his  notice.  These  do  not  ordinarily  express  their 
hunger  or  other  sufferings  by  cries  of  distress,  but  depend 
more  on  the  developed  reason  and  humanity  of  man.  And 
here  the  parent  is  called  upon  to  instruct  a  child  in  the  na- 
ture and  wants  of  each,  that  he  may  intelligently  provide 
for  their  sustenance  and  for  their  protection  from  injury  and 
disease. 

To  assist  in  this  important  duty  of  home  life,  which  so 
often  falls  to  the  supervision  of  woman,  the  following  infor- 
mation is  prepared  through  the  kindness  of  one  of  the  edit- 
ors of  a  prominent,  widely  known  agricultural  paper. 

Domestic  animals  are  very  apt  to  catch  the  spirit  and 

temper  of  their  masters.     A  surly  man  will  be  very  likely 

to  .have  a  cross  dog  and  a  biting  horse.     A  passionate  man 

•^will  keep  all  his  animals  in  moral  fear  of  him,  making  them 


806  TBS   UOUSEKESPEB  AND  HEALTHEJSBPSB. 

snappish,  and  liable  to  hart  those  of  whom  they  are  Dot 
afraid.  ^ 

It  is,  therefore,  most  important  that  all  animals  should  be 
treated  uniformly  with  kindness.  They  are  all  capable  of 
returning  affection^  ^d  will  show  it  very  pleasantly  if  we 
manifest  affection  for  them.  They  also  have  intuitive  per- 
ceptions of  our  emotions  which  we  can  not  conceal  A  sharp, 
ugly  dog  will  rarely  bite  a  person  who  Las  no  fear  of  him.  A 
horse  knows,  the  moment  a  man  mounts  or  takes  the  reins, 
whether  he  is  afraid  oj  not;  and  so  it  is  with  other  animals. 

If  live  stock  can  not  be  well  fed,  they  ought  not  to  be 
kept.  One  well-wintered  horse  is  worth-  as  much  as  two 
that  drag  through  on  straw,  and  by  browsing  the  hedge- 
rows. The  same  is  time  of  oxen,  and  emphatically  so  of 
cows.  The  owner  of  a  half-starved  dog  loses  the  use  of  him 
almost  altogether;  for  at  the  very  time — the  night — when 
he  is  most  needed  as  a  guard,  he  must  be  off  scouring  the 
country  for  food. 

Shelter  in  winter  is  most  important  for  cows.  They 
should  have  good  tight  stables  or  byres,  well  ventilated, 
and  so  warm  that  water  in  a  pail  will  only  freeze  a  little  on 
the  top  the  severest  nights.  Oxen  should  have  the  same 
stabling,  though  they  bear  cold  better.  Horses  in  stables 
will  bear  almost  any  degree  of  cold;  if  they  have  all  they 
can  eat.  Sheep,  except  young  lambs,  are  well  enough  shel- 
tered in  dry  sheds,  with  one  end  open.  Cattle,  sheep,  and 
dogs  do  not  sweat  as  hoi-ses  do,  they  "  loll ;"  that  is,  water 
or  slabber  runs  from  their  tongues;  hence  they  are  not  lia- 
ble to  take  cold  as  the  horse  is.  Hogs  bear  cold  pretty 
well;  but  they  eat  enough  to  convince  any  one  that  true 
economy  lies  in  giving  them  warm  styes  in  winter,  for  the 
colder  they  are  the  more  they  eat.  Fowls  will  not  lay  in 
cold  weather  unless  they  have  light  and  warm  quartera. 

Cleanliness  is  indispensable,  if  one  would  keep  his  animals 
healthy.  In  their  wild  state  all  our  domestic  animals  are 
veiy  clean,  and,  at  the  same  time,  very  healthy.  The  hog  is 
not  naturally  a  dirty  animal,  but  quite  the  reverse.  He  en- 
joys cuiTving  as  much  as  a  horse  or  cow,  and  would  be  as 
careful  of  his  litter  a9  a  cat  if  he  had  a  fair  chance.  r 


THE   CABB   OF  DOHESTIC  AKIMALS.  307 

Hoi*se8  ought  to  be  groomed  daily;  cows  and  oxen  as 
oflen  as  twice  a  week;  dogs  should  be  washed  with  soap- 
suds frequently.  Stables  should  be  cleaned  out  daily.  Ab- 
sorbents of  liquid  in  stables  should  be  removed  as  oflen  as 
they  become  wet.  Pry  earth  is  one  of  the  best  absorbents, 
and  is  especially  useful  in  the  fowl-house.  Hogs  in  pens 
should  have  straw  for  their  rests  or  lairs,  and  it  should  be 
often  renewed. 

Parasitic  Vermin. — ^These  are  lice,  fleas,  ticks,  the  scale 
insects, and  other  pests  which  afflict  our  live  stock.  There* 
are  many  ways  of  destroying  them ;  the  best  and  safest  is  a 
free  use  of  carbolic  acid  soap.  The  larger  animals,  as  well 
as  hogs,  dogs,  and  sheep,  may  be  washed  in  strong  suds  of 
this  soap  without  fear,  and  the  application  repeated  after  a 
week.  This  generally  destroys  both  the  creatures  and  their 
eggs.  Hen  lice  are  best  destroyed  by  greasing  the  fowls, 
and  dusting  them  with  flower  of  sulphur.  Sitting  hens  must 
never  be  greased^  but  the  sulphur  may  be  dusted  freely  in 
their  nests,  and  it  is  well  to  put  it  in  all  bens'  nests. 

Salt  and  Water. — All  animals  except  poultry  require  salt, 
and  all  free  supplies  of  fresh  water. 

lAght. — Stables,  or  places  where  any  kind  of  animals  are 
confined,  should .  have  plenty  of  light.  Windows  are  not 
more  important  in  a  house  than  in  a  bam.  The  sun  should 
come  in  freely;  and  if  it  shines  directly  upon  the  stock, all 
the  better.  When  beeves  and  sheep  are  fattening  very  rap- 
idly, the  exclusion  of  the  light  makes  them  more  quiet,  and 
fatten  faster;  but  their  state  is  an  unnatural  and  hardly  a 
bealthy  one. 

JEjxercise  in  the  open  air  is  important  for  breeding  animals. 
It  is  especially  necessary  for  horses  of  all  kinds.  Cows  need 
very  little,  and  swine  none,  unless  kept  for  breeding. 

Breeding. — Always  use  thorough-bred  males,  and  im- 
provement is  certain. 

Horses. — The  care  which  horaes  require  varies  with  the 
circumstances  in  which  the  owner  is  placed,  and  the  uses  to 
which  they  are  put.  In  general,  if  kept  stabled,  they  should 
be  fed  with  good  upland  hay,  almost  as  much  as  they  will 
eat ;  and  if  absent  from  the  stable,  and  at  work  most  of  the 


808  THE  HOUSSKSliPEB  AND  HSAIJrHKXEPEB. 

day,  they  should  have  all  they  will  eat  of  hay,  together  with 
foor  to  eight  quarts  of  oats  .or  an  equal  weight  of  other 
grain  or  meal.  Barley  is  good  for  horses,  ancl  so  is  dry 
com.  Corn-meal  put  upon  cut  hay,  wet  and  \ycll  mixed,  is 
good,  steady  feed,  if  not  in  too  large  quantities.  Four 
quarts  a  day  may  be  fed  unmixed  with  other  grain ;  but  if 
the  hoi*se  be  hard  worked  and  needs  more,  mix  the.  meal 
with  wheat  bran,  or  linseed-oil-cake  meal,  or  use  com  and 
bats  ground  together;  carrots  are  especially  wholesome.  A 
ijuart  of-  linseed-oil-cake  meal,  daily,  is  an  excellent  occa- 
sional addition  to  a  horse's  feed,  when  carrots  can  not  be 
had.  It  gives  lustre  to  his  coat,  and  brings  the  new  coat  of 
hair  out  in  the  spring.  A  stabled  horse  needs  daily  exer- 
cise, as  much  as  to  trot  three  miles.  Where  a  horse  is  trav- 
eling, it  is  well  to  give  him  six  quarts  of  oats  in  the  morn- 
ing, four  at  noon,  and  six  at  night. 

Thorough  grooming  is  indispensable  to  the  health  of 
horses.  Especial  care  should  be  taken  of  the  legs  and  fet- 
locks, that  no  dirt  remain  to  cause  that  distressing  disease, 
grease  or  scratchesy  which  results  from  filthy  fetlocks  and 
standing  in  dirty  stables.  When  a  horse  comes  in  from 
work  on  muddy  roads  with  dirty  legs,  they  should  be  im- 
mediately cleaned,  the  diit  brushed  off,  then  rubbed  with 
straw ;  then,  if  very  dirty,  washed  clean  and  rubbed  dry 
with  a  piece  of  sacking.  A  horse  should  never  stand  in  a 
draught  of  cold  air,  if  he  can  not  turn  and  put  his  back  to  it. 
If  sweaty  or  warm  from  work,  he  should  be  blanketed,  if  he 
is  to  stand  a  minute  in  the  winter  air.  If  put  at  once  into 
the  stable,  he  should  be  stripped  and  rubbed  down  with 
straw  actively  for  five  minutes  or  more,  and  then  blanketed. 
The  blanket  must  be  removed  in  an  hour,  and  the  horse 
given  water  and  feed,  if  it  is  the  usual  time.  It  will  not 
hurt  him  to  eat  hay  when  hot,  unless  he  be  thoroughly  ex- 
hausted, when  all  food  should  be  withheld  for  a  while. 

It  is  very  comforting  to  a  tired  horse,  when  he  is  too  hot 
to  drink,  to  sponge  out  his  mouth  with  cool  water.  A  horse 
should  never  drink  when  very  hot,  nor  be  turned  into  a  yard 
to  "  cool  off,"  even  in  summer,  neither  should  he  be  turned 
out  to  pasture  before  he  is  quite  cool.  j 


THS  CJLRB   OF  DOMESTIC  ANIMALS.      '  309 

CotM. — Grentle  but  fifm  treatment  will  make  a  cow  easy 
to  milk  and  to  handle  in  every  way.  If  stabled  or  yarded, 
cows  should  have  access  to  water,at  all  times,  or  have  it  fre- 
quently offered  to  them«  Clover  hay  is  probably  the  best 
steady  food  for  milch  cows.  Cornstalks  cut  up,  thoroughly 
soaked  with  water  for  half  a  day,  and  then  sprinkled  with 
com  or  oil-cake  meal,  is  perhaps  unsiarpassed  as  good  winter 
food  for  milch  cows.  The  amount  of  meal  may  vary.  With 
plenty  of  oil-meal,  there  is  little  danger  of  feeding  too  miich^ 
as  that  is  loosening  to  the  bowels,  and  a  safe,  nutritious  ar- 
ticle. Corn-meal  alone,  in  large  quantities,  is  too .  heating. 
Roots  should,  if  possible,  form  part  of.  the  diet  of.  a  milch 
cow,  especially  before  and  soon  after  calving ;  feed  well  be- 
ibre  this  period,  yet  not  to  make  the  cow  very  fat ;  but  it  is 
better  to  err  in  that  way  than  to  have  her  '^  come  in ''  thin. 
Take  the  calf  away  from  the  mother  as  soon  as  it  stands  up, 
and  the  separation  will  worry  neither  dam  nor  young.  This 
is  always  best,  unless  the  calf  is  to  be  kept  with  the  cow; 
The  calf  will  soon  learn  to  drink  its  food,  if  two  fingers  be 
held  in  its  mouth.  Let  it  have  all  the  first  drawn  milk  for 
three  days  as  soon  as  milked ;  afler  this,  skimmed  milk 
warmed  to  blood  heat.  Soon  a  little  fine  scalded  meal  may 
be  mixed  with  the  milk;  and  it  will,  at  three  to  five  weeks 
old,  nibble  hay  and  grass.  It  is  well,  also,  to  keep  a  box 
containing  some  dry  wheat-bran  and  fine  corn-meal  mixed 
in  the  calf-pen,  so  that  calves  may  take  as  much  as  they 
like. 

In  milking,  put  the  fingers  around-  the  teat  close  to  the 
bag;  then  firmly  close  the  forefingers  of  each  hand  altera 
nately,  immediately  squeezing  with  the  other  fingei-s.  The 
forefingers  prevent  the  milk  flowing  back  into  the  bag,  while 
the  others  press  it  out.  Sit  with  the  lefl  knee  close  to  the 
right  hind  leg  of  the  cow,  the  head  pressed  against  her  flank, 
the  left  hand  always  ready  to  ward  off*  a  blow  from  her  feet, 
which  the  gentlest  cow  may  give  almost  without  knowing 
it,  if  her  tender  teats  be  cut  by  long  nails,  or  if  a  wart  be 
hurt, or  her  bag  be  tender.  She  must  be  stripped  dry  every 
time  she  is  milked^  or  she  will  dry  up ;  and  if  she  gives  much 
milk,  it  pays  to  milk  three  times  a  day,  as  nearly  eight  hours 


310      TUB  HOUSEKBSPBS  AND  HBALTHKBBPEB. 

apart  as  possible.  Never  stop  while  milking  till  done^  as 
thisi^ill  caase  the  cow  to  stop  giving  milk. 

To  tether  a  cow,  tie  her  by  one  hind  leg,  making  the  rope 
fast  above  the  fetlock  joint,  and  protecting  the  limb  with 
a.  piece  of  an  old  boot-leg  or  similar  thing.  The  knot  must 
be  one  that  will  not  slip ;  regalar  fetters  of  iron  bound  with 
leather  are  much  better. 

A  cow  should  go  unmilked  two  months  before  calving, 
and  her  milk  should  not  be  used  by' the  family  till  four  days 
after  that  time. 

Swine. — ^The  filthy  state  of  hog-pens  is  allowed  on  account 
of  the  amount  of  manure  they  will  make  by  working  over 
all  sorts  of  vegetable  matter,  spoiled  hay,  weeds,  etc.,  etc. 
This  is  unhealthy  for  the  family  near  and  also  for  the  ani- 
mal. The  hog  is,  naturally,  a  cleanly  animal,  and  if  given  a 
chance  he  will  keep  himself  very  neat  and  clean.  Breeding 
sows  should  have  the  range  of  a  small  pasture,  and  be  regu- 
larly-fed.  They  need  fresh  water  constantly,  and  often  suf- 
fer for  lack  of  it  when  they  have  liquid  swill  which  they  do 
not  like  to  drink.  All  hogs  should  have  a  warm,  dry,  well- 
littered  pen  to  lie  in,  away  from  flies  and  disturbance  of 
any  kind.  They  are  fond  of  charcoal,  and  it  is  Worth  while 
frequently  to  throw  a  few  handfuls  where  they  can  get  at 
it.  It  has  a  very  beneficial  effect  on  the  appetite,  regulates 
the  tone  of  the  stomach  and  digestive  organs,  and  can  not 
do  any  harm.  Pigs  ought  always  to  be  well  fed  and  kept 
growing  fast ;  ^d  when  being  fattened,  they  should  be  pen- 
ned always,  the  herd  b^iAg  sorted  so  that  all  may  have  an 
equal  chance.  It  is  well  to  feed  soft  corn  in  the  ear;  but 
hard  corn  should  always  be  ground  and  cooked  for  pigs. 

Sheep. — In  the  winter,  sheep  need  deep,  well-littered,  dry 
sheds,  dry  yards,  and  hay,  wheat,  or  oat  straw,  as  much  as 
they  will  eat.  They  should  be  kept  gaining  by  grain  regu- 
larly fed  to  them,  and  so  distributied  that  each  gets  its  share. 
Com,  either  whole  or  ground,  or  oil-cake  meal,  or  both,  are 
used  for  fattening  sheep.  They  will  easily  surfeit  them- 
selves on  any  grain  except  oil-meal,  which  is  very  safe  feed 
for  them,  and  usually  economical.  Strong  sheep  will  often 
drive  the  weaker  ones  away,  and  so  get  more  thian  their 


THB   CABB   OF  DOMBSTIC  ANIMAXa  311 

share  of  food  and  make  themselves  sick.  This  mnst  be 
guarded  against,  and  the  flock  sorted,  keeping  the  weaker 
and  stronger  apart. 

Sheep  are  very  useful  in  clearing  land  of  brush  and  certain 
weeds,  which  they  gnaw  down  and  kill.  To  accomplish 
this,  the  land  must  be  overstocked,  and  it  is  best  not  to  keep 
sheep  on  short  pasturage  more  than  a  few  weeks  at  a  time ; 
but  if  they  are  returned  afler  a  few  days,  it  will  serve  as 
good  a  purpose  as  if  they  were  to  be  kept  on  all  the  time. 
Sheep  at  pasture  must  be  restrained  by  good  fences,  or  they 
will  be  a  great  nuisance!  Dog-proof  hedge  fences  of  Osage 
orange  are  to  be  highly  recommended,  wherever  this  plant 
will  grow.  Mutton  sheep  will. generally  pay  better  to  raise 
than  merinos,  but  they  need  more  care. 

PouUry. — Few  objects  of  labor  are  more  remunerative 
than  poultry,  raised  on  a  moderate  scale.  Turkeys^  when 
young,  need  great  care ;  some  animal  food,  dry,  warm  quar- 
ters, and  must  be  kept  out  of  the  wet  grass,  and  kept  in 
when  it  rains.  As  soon  as  fledged  they  become  very  hardy,* 
and,  with  free  range,  will  almost  take  care  of  themselves. 
Geese  need  water  and  good  grass  pasture.  Ducks  do  very 
well  without  water  to  swim  in,  if  they  have  all  they  need  to 
drink.  They  will  lay  a  great  many  eggs  if  kept  shut  in  a 
pen  until  say  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning.  If  let  out  earlier,  . 
they  wander  away,  and  will  hide  their  nests,  and  lay  only 
about  as  many  eggs  as  they  can  cover.  It  is  best  to  set  * 
ducks'  eggs  under  hens,  and  to  keep  young  ducks  shut  up  in 
a  dry  roomy  pen  for  four  weeks,  at  least.  Fowls  need  light, 
warm,  dry  quarters  in  winter,  plenty  of  feed,  but  not  too 
much.  They  relish  animal  food,  and  ought  to  have  some 
frequently  to  make  them  lay.  Pork  or  beef  scrap-cake  can 
be  bought  for  two  to  three  cents  a  pound,  and  is  very  good 
for  them.  Any  kind  of  grain  is  good  for  poultry.  Nothing 
is  better  than  wheat  screenings.  Early-hatched  chickens 
must  be  kept  in  a  warm,  dry,  sunny  room,  with  plenty  of 
gravel,  and  the  hen  should  have  no  more  than  eight  or  nine 
chickens  to  brood;  though  in  summer  one  hen  will  take 
good  care  of  fifteen.  Little  chickens,  turkeys,  and  ducks 
need  frequent  feeding,  and  must  have  their  water  changed 


312         B  HOUSSKSSPSB  ASD  HXALTHKBSPSB. 

oflen.  It  is  well  to  grea^  the  body  of  the  hen  and  the 
heads  of  the  dhicks  with  lard,  ia  order  to  prevent  their  be- 
coming loasy. 

Hens  set  about  twenty  days,  and  should  be  well  fed  and 
watered.  Cold  or  damp  weather  is  bad  for  young  fowls, 
and  when  they  have  been  chilled,  pepper-corns  are  a  good 
remedy,  in  addition  to  the  warmth  of  an  inclosed  dry  place. 

0 

The  most  absorbing  part  of  the  "  Woman's  question  *'  of 
the  present  time  is  the  remedy  for  the  varied  sufferings  of 
women  who  are  widows  or  unmarried,  and  without  means 
of  support.  As  yet,  few  are  aware  how  many  sources  of 
lucrative  enterprise  and  industry  lie  open  to  woman  in  the 
employments  directly  connected  with  the  family  state.  A 
woman  can  invest  capital  in  the  dairy  and  qualify  herself  to 
superintend  a  dairy  farm  as  well  as  a  man.  And  if  she  has 
no  capital  of  her  own,  if  well  trained  for  this  business,  she 
can  find  those  who  have  capital  ready  to  furnish — an  invest- 
ment that,  well  managed,  will  become  profitable.  And,  too, 
the  raising  of  poultry,  of  hogs,  and  of  sheep  are  all  within 
the  reach  of  a  woman  with  proper  abilities  and  training  for 
this  business.  So  that,  if  a  woman  chooses,  she  can  find  em- 
ployment both  interesting  and  profitable  in  studying  ther 
care  of  domestic  animals. 

j5e65.— But  one  of  the  most  profitable  as  well  as  interest- 
ing kinds  of  business  for  a  woman  is  the  care  of  bees.  In  a 
recent  agricultural  report  it  is  stated  that  one  lady  bought 
four  hives  for  ten  dollars,  and  in  five  yeara  she  was  offered 
one  thousand  five  hundred  dollars  for  her  stock,  and  refused 
it  as  not  enough.  In  addition  to  this  increase  of  her  capital, 
in  one  of  these  five  years  sHe  sold  twenty-two  hives  and  four 
hundred  and  twenty  pounds  of  honey.  It  is  also  stated  that 
in  five  years  one  man,  from  six  colonies  of  bees  to  start  with, 
cleared  eight  thousand  pounds  of  honey  and  one  hundred 
and  fifly-four  colonies  of  bees. 

It  is  hoped  a  time  is  at  hand  when  every  woman  will  be 
trained  to  some  employment  by  which  she  can  secure  to  her- 
self an  independent  home  and  means  to  support  a  family,  in 
case  she  does  not  marry,  or  is  left  a  widow,  with  herself  and 
a  family  to  maintain. 


CARE   OF  THE  SICK.  818 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

CASS     OF     THE     flICK. 

It  is  interesting  to  notice  in  the  histories  of  oar  Lord  the 
prominent  place  given  to  the  care  of  the  sick,  ^hen  he 
first  sent  oat  the  apostles,  it  was  to  heal  the  sick  as  well  as 
to  preach.  Again,  when  he  sent  oat  the  seventy,  their  first 
command  was  to  "heal  the  sick,*'  and  next  to  say,  "the 
kingdom  of  God  has  come  nigh  unto  you."  The  body  was 
to  be  healed  first,  in  order  to  attend  to  the  kingdom  of  God, 
even  when  it  was  "  brought  nigh." 

Jesus  Christ  spent  more  time  and  labor  in  the  cure  of 
men^s  bodies  than  in  preaching,  even  if  we  subtract  those 
labors  with  his  earthly  father  by  which  family  homes  were 
provided.  When  he  ascended  to  the  heavens,  his  last  re- 
corded words  to  his  follower,  as  given  by  Mark,  were,  that 
his  disciples  should  "  lay  hands  on  the  sick,"  that  they 
might  recover.  Still  more  directly  is  the  duty  of  care  for 
the  sick  exhibited  in  the  solemn  allegorical  description  of 
the  last  day.  It  was  those  who  visited  the  sick  that  were 
the  blessed;  it  was  those  who  did  not  visit  the  sick  who 
were  told  to  "depart."  Thus  are  we  abundantly  taught 
that  one  of  the  most  sacred  duties  of  the  Christian  family  is 
the  training  of  its  inmates  to  care  and  kind  attention  to  the 
sick. 

Every  woman  who  has  the  care  of  young  children,  or  of  a 
large  family,  is  frequently  called  upon  to  advise  what  shall 
be  done  for  some  one  who  is  indisposed,  and  oflen  in  cir- 
cuAistances  where  she  must  trust  solely  to  her  own  judg- 
ment. In  such  cases, some  err  by  neglecting  to  do  any  thing 
at  all  till  the  patient  is  quite  sick ;  but  a  still  greater  num- 
ber err  from  excessive  and  injurious  dosing. 

The  two  great  causes  of  the  ordinary  slig^ht  attacks  of  ill- 
pess  in  a  family  arc,  sudden  chills,  which  close  the  pores  of 
the  skin,  ajid  thus  affect  the  throat,  lungs,  or  bowels;  and 

14 


0CO 


fl^A^TB 


bea 


ftttd  ^^* 


8\» 


\ft 


tdet 


^*"^*«r\ou*y-      ,  twenty  A»^^er 


oC  t^^Tt  tbe\t  ^ 


to¥^ 


veB* 


ss«'Srr.>s*s«?i^'S^«^ 


atyv 


ted.    -.":;  b»^e  «^- ^^rtnt^^  - '■-         ;  _^^ou'' 


tbey 


tbe 


'»^*  °^-  %x  tV^« 


•^»:si|j^ 


feN» 


and  ^o*\  .pA  NTitb  ^      auftW 


'"">rt-«' ^«"  " 


as  ^''^^  ^ncd  fo*  ^^  *A-a«  int 


etoP 


T\0 

txx 


Lifting 


kCt\t 


58. 


SotVva^\V^^  ati4 


\oess-  ^/-^^^etest^^S 


otnati 


o6t^^^^  "'' 


?^^^^of  401^ 


c8U<^  ^""oT^V^e  ^ 


N^ottx^^?  .  ^Vvat  one  Aa  ^^  ^ 


*'Si^ 


cave  "^      ^^^t,  on«  -  ^^^  a  ^'^'^'-^ate*        ^ 

\\We^  ^^,  xi^ft  Y\>^n^ ,  ^..;nn  to  ^^     -.♦^-U^o  ^^^"^ 


.{bet 


dS 


font 


lYio 


uft«^n 


a  6^^  T^  adAVt-ion 


lCf\l» 


lua< 


rcnty 


also 


ftiat^ 


ftt»f 


«o^^,^! bve^-!!,:5:  oCnn^;^  oC>>ee«,re  ^ 


,a 
n 
as 


\^f;,:d  andtl^tlo^to^^it  oC  V^oney 


five  yeflt.  tbouf  «*  ^ 


every 


-  -•  -o^^-.ts^irnTeU-i^s^^**' 


lta\P 


^\{  au  iticiev"  ^^t  mavHT 


doeft 


tjot 


314      THE  HOUSEKESPEB  AND   HEALTHKEEPEB. 

the  excessive  or  improper  use  of  food.  In  most  cases  of  ill- 
ness from  the  first  cause,  bathing  the  feet,  retiring  to  a  warm 
bed,  and  some  hot  aperient  drink  to  induce  perspiration,  are 
suitable  remedies. 

In  case  of  illness  from  improper  food,  or  excess  in  eating, 
fasting  for  one  or  two  mesjs,  to  give  the  system  time  and 
chance  to  relieve  itself,  is  the  safest  remedy.  Sometimes  a 
gentle  cathartic  of  castor-oil  may  be  needful ;  but  it  is  best 
first  to  try  fasting.  A  safe  relief  from  injurious  articles  in 
the  stomach  is  an  emetic  of  warm  water ;  but  to  be  effective, 
several  tumblerfuls  must  be  given  in  quick  succession,  and 
till  the  stomach  can  receive  no  more. 

The  following  extract  from  a  discoui*se  of  Dr.  Burne,  be- 
fore the  London  Medical  Society,  contains  important  infor- 
mation :  ''  In  civilized  life,  the  causes  which  are  most  gen- 
erally and  continually  operating  in  the  production  of  dis- 
eases are,  affections  of  the  mind,  improper  diet,  and  reten- 
tion of  the  intestinal  excretions^.  The  undue  retention  of  ex- 
crementitious  matter  all<Tws  of  the  absoi*ption  of  its  more 
liquid  parts,  which  is  a  cause  of  great  impurity  to  the  blood, 
and  the  excretions,  thus  rendered  hard  and  knotty,  act  more 
or  less  as  extraneous  substances,  and,  by  their  irritation, 
produce  a  determination  of  blood  to  the  intestines  and' to 
the  neighboring  viscera,  which  ultimately  ends  in  inflamma- 
tion. It  «ilso  has  a  great  effect  on  the  whole  system ;  causes 
a  determination  of  blood  to  the  head,  which  oppresses  the 
brain  and  dejects  the  mind;  deranges  the  functions  of  the 
stomach;  causes  flatulency;  and  produces  a  general  state 
of  discomfort.** 

Dr.  Combe  remarks  on  this  subject :  "  In  the  natural  and 
healthy  state,  under  a  proper  system  of  diet,  and  with  suf- 
ficient exercise,  the  bowels  are  relieved  regularly  once  ev- 
ery day."  Habit  "  is  powerfiil  in  modifying  the  result,  and 
in  sustaining  healthy  action  when  once  fairly  established. 
Hence  the  obvious  advantage  of  observing  as  much  regulari- 
ty in  relieving  the  system,  as  in  taking  our  meals."  It  is 
often  the  case  that  soliciting  nature  at  a  regular  period, 
once  a  day,  will  remedy  constipation  without  medicine,  and 
induce  a  regular  and  healthy  state  of  the  bowels.     "When, 


CASE   OF  THS  SICK.  315 

however,  as  most  fi-equently  happens,  the  coDstipation  arises 
from  the  absence  of  all  assistance  from  the  abdominal  and 
respiratory  mascl^s,  the  first  step  to  be  taken  is,  again  to 
solicit  their  aid ;  first,  by  removing  all  impediments  to  free 
respiration,  sach  as  stays,  waistbands,  and  belts ;  secondly, 
by  resorting  to  such  active  exercise  as  shall  call  the  muscles 
into  fall  and  regular  action  ;*  and  lastly,  by  proportioning 
the  quantity  of  food  to  the  wants  of  the  system,  and  the 
condition  of  the  digestive  organs. 

'^If  we  employ  these  means  systematically  and  persever- 
ingly,'we  shall  rarely  fail  in  at  last  restoring  the  healthy 
action  of  the  bowels,  with  little  aid  from  medicine.  But  if 
we  neglect  these  modes,  we  may  go  on  for  years,  adding  pill 
to  pill,  and  dose  to  dose,  without  ever  attaining  the  end  at 
which  we  aim. 

"  There  is  no  point  in  which  a  woman  needs  more  knowl- 
edge and  discretion  than  in  administering  remedies  for  what 
seem  slight  attacks,  which  are  not  supposed  to  require  the 
attention  of  a  physician.  It  is  little  realized  that  purgative 
drugs  are  unnatural  modes  of  stimulating  the  internal  or- 
gans, tending  to  exhaust  them  of  their  secretions,  and' t(> 
debilitate  and  disturb  the  animal  economy.  For  this  reason, 
they  should  be  used  as  little  as  possible  ;jind  fasting,  and 
perspiration,  and  the  other  methods  pointed  out,  should  al- 
ways be  first  resorted  to." 

When  medicine  must  be  given,  it  should  be  borne  in  mind 
that  there  are  various  classes  of  purgatives,  which  produce 
very  diverse  efiects.     Some,  like  salts,  operate  to  thin  the 

m 

*  The  most  effective  mode  of  exercising  the  abdominal  and  respiratoiy 
muscles,  in  order  to  remedy  constipation,  is  by  a  continnoos  alternate  con- 
traction of  the  mascles  of  the  abdomen  and  diaphragm.  By  contracting  the 
mnsdes  of  the  abdomen,  the  intestines  are  pressed  inward  and  upward,  and 
then  the  mnscles  of  the  diaphragm  above  contract  and  press  them  downward 
and  outward.  Thus  the  blood  b  drawn  to  the  torpid  parts  to  stimulate  to 
the  healthful  action,  while  the  agitation  moves  their  contents  downward. 
An  invalid  can  thus  exercise  the  abdominal  muscles  in  bed.  The  proper 
time  is  just  after  a  meal.  This  exercise,  continued  ten  minutes  a  day,  in- 
cluding short  intervals  of  rest,  and  persevered  in  for  a  week  or  two,  will 
cure  most  ordinary  cases  of  constipation,  provided  proper  food  is  taken. 
Coarse  bread  and  fruit  are  needed  for  this  purpose  in  most 


816  THB   HOUSSKKBPBR  AND  HSAIJTHKBEPEB. 

blood,  and  reduce  the  system;  others  are  stimnlating ;  and 
others  have  a  peculiar  operation  on  certain  organs.  Of 
course,  great  discrimination  and  knowledge  are  needed,  in 
order  to  select  the  kind  which  is  suitable  to  the  particular 
disease,  or  to  the  particular  constitution  of  the  invalid. 
This  shows  the  folly  of  using  the  many  kinds  of  pills,  and 
other  quack  medicines,  where  no  knowledge  Can  be  bad  of 
their  composition.  Pills  which  are  good  for  one  kind  of  dis- 
ease might  operate  as  poison  in  another  state  of  the  system. 

It  is  very  common  in  cases  of  colds,  which  affect  the  lungs 
or  throat,  to  continue  to  try  one  dose  after  another  for  relieC 
It  will  be  well  to  bear  in  mind  at  such  times,  that  all  which 
goes  into  the  stomach  must  be  first  absorbed  into  the  blood 
before  it  can  reach  the  diseased  part ;  and  that  there  is  some 
danger  of  injuring  the  stomach,  or  other  parts  of  the  system, 
by  such  a  variety  of  doses,  many  of  which,  it  is  probable, 
will  be  directly  contradictory  in  their  nature,  and  thus  neu- 
tralize any  supposed  benefit  they  might  separately  impart 

When  a  cold  affects  the  head  and  eyes,  and  also  impedes 
breathing  through  the  nose,  great  relief  is  gained  by  a  wet 
napkin  spread  over  the  upper  part  of  the  face,  covering  the 
nose  except  an  opening  for  breath.  This  is  to  be  covered 
by  folds  of  fiapnel  fastened  over  the  napkin  with  a  handker- 
chief. So  also  a  wet  towel  over  the  throat  and  whole  chest, 
covered  with  folds  of  flannel,  often  relieves  oppressed  lufigs. 
'  Ordinarily,  a  cold  can  be  arrested  on  its  first  symptoms  by 
coverings  in  bed  and  a  bottle  of  hot  water,  securing  free 
perspiration.  Often,  at  its  first  appearance,  it  can  be  stop- 
ped by  a  spoonful  or  two  of  hot  whisky,  or  any  alcoholic 
liquor,  in  hot  water,  taken  on  going  to  bed.  Warm  cover- 
ing to  induce  perspiration  will  assist  the  process.  These 
simple  remedies  are  safest.  Perspiration  should  always  be 
followed  by  a  towel-bath  of  cool  water  in  a  warm  room  or 
by  a  fire. 

It  is  very  unwise  to  tempt  the  appetite  of  a  person  who  is 
indisposed.  Tl>e  cessation  of  appetite  is  the  warning  of  na- 
ture that  the  system  is  in  such  a  state  that  food  .can  not  be 
easily  digested.  When  food  is  to  be  given  to  one  who  has 
no  desire  for  it,  beef-tea  is  the  best  in  most  cases. 


CABB  OF  THE  8ICK.  317 

The  following  saggestioos  may  be  foand  useful  in  regard 
to  nursing  the  sick:  As  nothing  contributes  more  to  the 
restoration  of  health  than  pure  air,  it  should  be  a  primary 
object  to  keep  a  sick-room  well  ventilated.  ,At  least  twice 
in  the  twenty-four  hours,  the  patient  should  be  well  covered, 
and  fresh  air  freely  admitted  from  out-of-doors.  After  this, 
if  need  be,  the  room  should  he  restored  to  a  proper  temper- 
ature by  the  aid  of  an  open  fire.  Bedding  and  clothing 
should  also  be  well  aired,  and  frequently  changed,  as  the 
exhalations  from  the  body,  in  sickness,  are  peculiarly  delete- 
rious. Frequent  ablutions  of  the  whole  body,^if  possible, 
are  very  useful ;  and  for  these  warm  water  may  be  employed, 
when  cold  water  is  disagreeable. 

A  sick-room  should  always  be  kept  very  neat  and  in  per- 
fect order;  and  all  haste,  noise,  and  bustle  should  be  avoid- 
ed. In  order  to  secnre^heatness,  order,  and  quiet,  in  case  of 
long  illness,  the  following  arrangements  should  be  made: 
Keep  a  large  box  for  fuel,  which  will  need  to  be  filled  only 
twice  in  twenty-four  hours.  Provide  also  and  keep  in  the 
room  or  aa  adjacent  closet,  a  small  tea-kettle,  a  saucepan,  a 
pail  of  water  for  drinks  and  ablutions,  a  pitcher,  a  covered 
porringer,  two  pint  bowls,  two  tumblers,  two  cups  and  sau- 
cers, two  wine-glasses,  two  large  and  two  small  spoons ;  also 
a  dish  in  which  to  wash  these  articles;  a  good  supply ^of 
towels,  and  a  broom.  Keep  a  slop-bucket  near  by  to  receive 
the  wash  of  the  room.  Procuring  all  these  ai*ticles  at  once 
ivill  save  much  noise  and  confusion. 

Whenever  medicine  or  food  is  given,  spread  a  clean  towel 
over  the  person  or  bed-clothing,  and  get  a  clean  handker- 
chief, as  nothing  is  more  annoying  to  a  weak  stomach  than 
the  stickiness  and  soiling  produced  by  medicine  and  food. 

Keep  the  fire-pl&ce  neat,  and  always  wash  all  articles  and 
put  them  in  order  as  soon  as  they  are  out  of  use.  A  sick 
person  has  nothing  to  do  but  look  about  the  room;  and 
when  every  thing  is  neat  and  in  order,  a  feeling  of  comfort 
is  indaced,  while  disorder,  filth,  and  neglect  are  constant  ob- 
jects of  annoyance  which,  if  not  complained  of,  are  yet  felt 

One  very  important  particular  in  the  case  of  those  who 
are  delicate  in  constitution,  as  well  as  in  the  case  of  the  sick. 


318      TUB  HOUSEKEKPEB  AND  HSALTHKEBPBB. 

is  the  pi'eservation  of  warmth,  especially  in  the  hands  and 
the  feet.  The  equal  circulation  of  the  blood  19  an  important 
element  for  good  health,  and  this  is  impossible  when  the  ex- 
tremities are  habitually  or  frequently  cold.  It  is  owing  to 
this  fact  that  the  coldness  caused  by  wetting  the  feet  is  so 
injurious.  In  cases  where  disease  or  a  weak  constitution 
causes  a  feeble  or  imperfect  circulation,  great  pains  should 
be  taken  to  dress  the  feet  and  hands  warmly,  especially 
around  the  wrists  and  ankles,  where  the  blood-vessels  are 
nearest  to  the  surface  and  thus  most  exposed  to  cold.  Warm 
elastic  wristlets  and  anklets  would  save  many  a  feeble  per- 
son from  increasing  decay  or  disease. 

When  the  circulation  is  feeble  from  debility  or  disease, 
the  union  of  carbon  and  oxygen  in  the  capillaries  is  slower 
than  in  health,  and  therefore  care  should  be  taken  to  pre- 
serve the  heat  thus  generated  by  warm  clothing  and  protec 
tion  from  cold  draughts.  In  nervous  debility  it  is  peculiar- 
ly important  to  preserve  the  animal  heat,  for  its  excessive 
loss  especially  affects  weak  nerves.  Many  an  invalid  is  care- 
lessly and  habitually  suffering  cold  feet,  who  would,  recover 
health  by  proper  care  to  preserve  animal  heat,  especially  in 
the  extremities.  Hot  fomentations  in  most  cases  will  be  as 
good  as  a  blister,  less  painful,  and  safer. 

Always  prepare  food  for  the  sick  in  the  neatest  and  most 
careful  manner.  It  is  in  sickness  that  the  senses  of  smell 
and  taste  are  most  susceptible  of  annoyance;  and  often,  lit- 
tle mistakes  or  negligences  in  preparing  food  will  take  away 
all  appetite. 

Food  for  the  sick  should  be  cooked  on  coals,  that  no 
smoke  may  have  access  to  it;  and  great  care  must  be  taken 
to  prevent,  by  stirring,  any  adherence  to  the  bottom  of  the 
cooking  vessel,  as  this  always  gives  a  disagreeable  taste. 

Keepinjg  clean  handkerchiefs  and  towels  at  hand,  cooling 
the  pillows,  sponging  the  hands  with  water,  (with  eare  to 
dry  them  thoroughly,)  swabbing  the  mouth  with  a  clean 
linen  rag  on  the  end  of  a  stick,  are  modes  of  increasing  the 
comfort  of  the  sick.  Always  throw  a  shawl  over  a  sick  per- 
son when' raised  up. 

Be  careful  to  understand  a  physician's  directions,  and  to 


CABB   OF  THE  8ICK«  319 

obey  them  implicitly.  If  it  be  supposed  that  any  other  per- 
son knows  better  aboat  the  case  than  the  physician,  dismiss 
the  physician,  and  employ  that  person  in  his  stead. 

It  is  always  best  to  consult  the  physician  as  to  where 
medicines  shall  be  purchased,  and  to  show  the  articles  to 
him  before  using  them,  as  great  impositions  are  practiced 
in  selling  old,  useless,  and  adulterated  drugs.  Always  put 
labels  on  phials  of  medicine,  and  keep  them  out  of  the  reach 
of  children. 

Be  careful  to  label  all  powders,  and  particularly' all  white 
powders^  as  many  poisonous  medicines  in  this  form  are  easily 
mistaken  for  others  which  are  harmless. 

In  nnrsing  the  sick,  always  speak  gently  and  chceringly ; 
and,  while  you  express  sympathy  for  their  pain  and  trials, 
stimulate  them  to  bear  all  with  fortitude,  and  with  resigna- 
tion to  the  Heavenly  Father,  who  "  doth  not  willingly  af- 
flict," and  "who  causeth  all  things  to  work  together  for 
good  to  them  that  love  him."  Offer  to  read  the  Bible  or 
other  devotional  books,  whenever  it  is  suitable,  and  will  not 
be  deemed  obtrusive. 

Every  woman  should  be  trained  for  the  office  of  nurse  to 
the  sick,  and  some  who  have  special  traits  that  fit  them  for 
it  should  make  it  their  daily  professional  business.  The  in- 
dispensable qualities  in  a  good  nurse  are  common  sense,  con- 
scientiousness, and  sympathetic  benevolence. 

Persons  may  be  conscientious  and  benevolent,  and  possess 
good  judgment  in  many  respects,  and  yet  be  miserable  nurses 
of  the  sick  for  want  of  training  and  right  knowledge. 

^^Knowledgey  the  assurance  that  one  knows  what  to  do, 
always  gives  presence  of  mind — and  presence  of  mind  is  im- 
portant not  only  in  a  sick-room  but  in  every  home.  Who 
has^not  known  consternation  in  a  family  when  some  one  has 
fainted,  or  been  burned,  or  cut,  while  none  were  present  who 
knew  how  to  stop  the  flowing  blood,  or  revive  the  fainting, 
or  apply  the  saving  application  to  the  bum?  And  yet 
knowledge  and  efficiency  in  such  cases  would  save  many  a 
life,  and  be  a  most  fitting  and  desirable  accomplishment  in 
every  woman." 

"We  are  slow  to  leara  the  mighty  influence  of  common 


820  TH£  HOUSXJCJESPte  AND  HEALTHKSBPSB. 

agencieis,  and  the  greatness  of  little  things,  in  their  bearing 
upon  life  and  health.  The  woman  Who  believes  it  takes  no 
strength  to  bear  a  little  noise  or  some  disagreeable  an- 
nouncements, and  loses  patience  with  the  weak,  nervoas  in- 
valid who  is  agonized  with  creaking  doors  or  shoes,  or  loud, 
shrill  voices,  or  rustling  papers,  or  sharp,  fidgety  motions,  or 
the  whispering  so  common  in  sick-rooms  and  often  so  acute- 
ly distressing  to  the  sufferer,  will  soon  correct  such  misap- 
prehensions by  herself  experiencing  a  nervous  fever.'' 

Here  the  writer  would  put  in  a  plea  for  the  increasing 
multitudes  of  nervous  sufferers  not  confined  to  a  sick-room, 
and  yet  exposed  to  all  the  varied  sources  of  pain  incident  to 
au  exhausted  nervous  system,  which  oflen  cause  more  intol- 
erable and  also  more  wearing  pain  than  other  kinds  of  suf- 
fering. . 

/^An  exceeding  acuteuess  of  the  senses  is  the  result  of 
many  forms  of  nervous  disease.  A  heavy  breath,  an  un- 
washed hand,  a  noise  that  would  not  have  been  noticed  in 
health,  a  crooked  table-cover  or  bed-spread,  may  'disturb  or 
oppress ;  and  more  than  one  invalid  has  spoken  in  my  hear- 
ing of  the  sickening  effect  produced  by  the  nurse  tasting  her 
food,  or  blowing  in  her  drinks  to  make  them  cool.  One 
woman,  and  a  sensible  woman  too,  told  me  her  nurse  had 
turned  a  large  cushion  upon  her  bureau  with  the  back  part 
in  front.  She  determined  not  to  be  disturbed  nor  to  speak 
of  such  a  trifle,  but  afler  struggling  three  hours  in  vain  to 
banish  the  annoyance,  she  was  forced  to  ask  to  have  the 
cushion  placed  right." 

In  this  place  should  be  mentioned  the  suffering  caused  to 
persons  of  reduced  nervous  power  not  only  by  the  smoke  of 
tobacco,  but  by  the  fetid  effluvium  of  it  from  the  breath  and 
clothing  of  persons  who  smoke.  Many  such  are  sickened  in 
society  and  in  car-traveling,  and  to  a  degree  little  imagined 
by  those  who  gain  a  dangerous  pleasure  at  the  frequent  ex- 
pense of  the  feeble- and  suffering. 

"  It  is  oilen  exceedingly  important  to  the  very  weak,  who 
can  take  but  very  little  nutriment,  to  have  that  little  when-: 
ever  they  want  it.  I  have  known  invalids  sustain  great  in- 
jury and  suffering;  when  exhausted  for.  want  of  food^they 


CAB9  OF  THB  SICK.  821 

«" 

have  had  to  wait;  ^nd;  Wait,  feeling  as  if  every  minate  was  an 
hoar,  while  some  well-fed  nurse  delayed  its  coming.  Said  a 
lady,  *  It  makes^me  hungry  now  to  think  of  the  meals  she 
brought  me  upon  that  little  waiter  when  I  was  sick-^uclr 
brown  thin  toast,  such  good  broiled  beef,  such  fragrant  tea, 
and  every  thing  looking  so  exquisitely  nice  I  If  at  any  time 
I  did  not  think  of  any  thing  I  wanted,  nor  ask  for  food,  she 
'  did  not  annoy  me-  with  questions,  but  brought  some  little 
delicacy  at  the  proper  time,  and  when  it  came  I  could  take 
it* 

"  If  there  is  pne  purpose  of  a  personal  kind  for  which  it  is 
especially  desirable  to  lay  up  means,  it  is  for  being  well 
nursed  iu  sickness;  yet  in  the  present  state  of  society  this 
is  absolutely  impossible,  even  to  the  wealthy,  because  of  the 
scarcity  of  competent  nurses.  Families  worn  down  wilh 
the  long  and  extreme  illness  of  a  member  require  relief  from 
one  whose  feelings  will  be  less  taxed,  and  who  can  better 
endure  the  labpr^: 

'^ But, alas!  how  often  is  it  impossible, for  love  or  money, 
to  obtain  one  capable  of  taking  the  burden  from  the  ex- 
hausted sister  or  mother' or  daughter,  and  how  often  in  con- 
sequence they  have  died  prematurely  or  struggled  through 
weary  years  with  a  broken  constitution.  Appeal  to  those 
who  have  made  the  trial,  and  you  will  find  that  very  seldom 
have  they  been  able  to  have  those  who  by  nature  or  by 
training  were  competent  for  their  duties.  Ignorant,  unscru- 
pulous, inattentive^ — how  often  they  disturb  and  injure  the 
patient!  A  physician  told  me  that  one  of  his  patients  had 
died  because  the  nurse,  contrary  to  orders,  had  at  a  critical 
period  washed  her  with  cold  water.  One  is  known  who,  by 
stealth,  quieted  a  fretful  child  with  laudanum,  and  of  others 
who  exhausted  the  sick  by  incessant  talking.  One  lady  said 
that  when,  to  escape  this  distressing  garrulity,  she  closed  her 
eyes,  the  nurse  exclaimed,  alcfud,  *  Why,  she  is  going  to  sleep 
while  I  am  talking  to  her.' 

"A  few  only  of  the  sensible,  quiet,  and  loving  women, 
whose  presence  everywhere  is  a  blessing,  have  qualified 
themselves  and  followed  nursing  as  a  business.  Heaven 
bless  that  few !    What  a  sense  of  relief  pervades  a  family 

14* 


822      THB  H0U8EKSBPSB  AND  HSALTHKSBPSB. 

when  such  an  one  has  been  procured ;  and  what  a  treasure 
seemed  fouiid ! 

*^  There  is  very  oommonly  an  extreme  susceptibility  in  the 
sick  to  the  moroZ  atmo^here  about  them.  They  feel  the 
healthful  influence  of  the  presence  of  a  true-hearted  attend- 
ant and  repose  in  it,  though  they  may  not  be  able  to  define 
the  cause;  while  dissimulation^falsehoodyrecklessnessy coarse- 
ness, jar  terribly  and  injuriously  on  their  heightened  sensi- 
bilities. 'Are  the  Sisters  of  Charity  really  better  nurses 
than  most  other  women  V  asked  an  intelligent  lady  who  had 
seen  much  of  our  military  hospitals.  '  Yes,  they  are,*  was 
the  reply.  'Why  should  it  he  so?'  'I  think  it  is  because 
with  them  it  is  a  w:ork  of  self-abnegation,  and  of  duty  to 
God ;  and  they  are  so  quiet  and  self  forgetful  in  its  exercise 
th*at  they  do  it  better,  while  many  other  women  show  such 
self-consciousness  and  are  so  fussy  !'* 

Is  there  any  reason  why  ev^ry  Protestant  woman  should 
not  be  trained  for  this  self-denying  office  as  a  diUy  owed  to 
God? 

We  can  not  better  close  this  chapter  than  by  one  more 
quotation  from  an  intelligent  and 'attractive  writer:  ''The 
good  nurse  is  an  artist  Oh  the  pillowy,  soothing  softness 
of  her  touch,  the  neatness  of  her  simple,  unrustling  dress,  the 
music  of  her  assured  yet  gentle  voice  and  tread,  the  sense 
of  security  and  rest  inspired  by  her  kind  and  hopeful  face, 
the  proniptness  and  attention  to  every  want,  the  repose  that 
like  an  atmosphere  encircles  her,  the  evidence  of  heavenly 
goodness  and  love  that  she  diffuses !"  Is  not  such  an  art  as 
this  worth  much  to  attain  ? 

In  training  children  to  the  Christian  life,  one  very  impor- 
tant opportunity  occurs  whenever  sickness  appears  in  the 
family  or  neighborhood.  The  repression  of  disturbing  noises, 
the  speaking  in  tones  of  gentleness  and  sympathy,  the  small 
offices  of  service  or  nursing  in  which  children  can  aid,  should 
be  inculcated  as  ministering  to  the  Lord  and  Elder  Brother 
of  man,  who  has  said,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  to  me." 

One  of  the  blessed  opportunities  for  such  ministries  is 
given  to  children  in  the  cultivation  of  flowers.    The  entrance 


CABB   OF  THE   BICK.  323 

into  a  sick-room  of  a  smiling,  healthful  child,  bringing  an  of- 
fering of  flowers  raised  by  its  own  labor,  is  like  an  angel  of 
comfort  and  love,  '*  and  alike  it  blesseth  him  who  gives  and 
him  who  takes.** 

A  time  is  coming  when  the  visitation  of  the  sick,  as  a  part 
of  the  Christian  life,  will  hold  a  higher  consideration  than 
is  now  generally  accorded,  especially  in  the  cases  of  uninter- 
esting sufferers  who  have  nothing  to  attract  kind  attentions, 
except  that .  they  are  suffering  children  of  oar  Father  in 
heaven^  and  "one  of  the  least"  of  the  brethren  of  Jesus 
Christ 


824  THX  HOUSSKSSPES  AND^  HSAIiTHKXSPXS. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

FIBSB    AND    LIGHTS. 

.  A  SHALLOW  fire-place  saves  wood,  and  gives  oat  moje  heat 
than  a  deeper  one.  A  false  back  of  brick  may  be  put  up 
in  a  deep  fire-place.  Hpoks  for  holding  up  the  shovel  and 
tongs,  a  hearth-brush  and  bellows,  and  brass  knobs  to  hang 
them  on,  should  be  furnished  to  every  fire-place.  An  iron 
bar  across  the  andirons  aids  in  keeping  the  fire  safe  and  in 
good  order.  Steel  furniture  is  neater,  handsomer,  and  more 
iasily  kept  in  order  than  that  made  of  brass. 

Use  green  wood  for  logs,  and  mix  green  and  dry  wood 
for  the  fire ;  and  then  the  wood-pile  will  last  much  longer. 
Walnut,  maple,  hickory,  and  oak  wood  are  best ;  chestnut 
or  hemlock  is  bad,  because  it  snaps.  Do  not  buy  a  load  in 
which  there  are  many  crooked  sticks.  Learn  how  to  meas- 
ure and  calculate  the  solid  contents  of  a  load,  so  as  not  to 
be  cheated.  A  cord  of  wood  should  be  equivalent  to  a  pile 
eight  feet  long,  four  feet  wide  and  four  feet  high ;  that  is, 
it  contains  (84-44-4=128)  one  hundred  and  twenty-eight 
cubic  or  solid  feet.  A  city  "load"  is  usually  one  third  of 
a  cord.  Have  all  your  wood  split  and  piled  under  cover 
for  winter.  Have  the  green-wood  logs  in  one  pile,  dry-wood 
in  another,  oven-wood  in  another,  kindlings  and  chips  in  an- 
other, and  a  supply  of  charcoal  to  use  for  broiling  and  iron- 
ing in  another  place.  Have  a  brick  bin  for  ashes,  and  never 
allow  them  to  be  put  in  wood.  When  quitting  fires  at 
night,  never  leave  a  burning  stick  across  the  andirons,  nor 
on  its  end,  without  quenohiug  it.  See  that  no  fire  adheres 
to  the  broom  or  brush ;  remove  all  articles  from  the  fire,  and 
have  two  pails  filled  with  water  in  the  kitchen  where  they 
will  not  freeze. 

STOVES  AND  GRATES.^ 

Rooms  heated  by  stoves  should  always  have  some  open- 
ing for  the  admission  of  fresh  air,  or  they  will  be  injurious 


FIRES  AND  LIGHTS.  dSf5 

to  health.  The  dryness  of  the  air  which  they  occasion 
should  be  remedied  by  placing  a  vessel  filled  with  water 
on  the  stove,  otherwise  the  luiigs  or  eyes  will  be  injured. 
A  large  number  of  plants  in  a  room  prevents  this  dryness 
of  the  air.  Where  stove-pipes  pass  through  fire-boards,  the 
hole  in  the  wood  should  be  much  larger  than  the  pipe,  so 
that  there  may  be  no  danger  of  the  wood  taking  fire.  The 
unsightly  opening  thus  occasioned  should  be  covered  with 
tin.  When  pipes  are  carried  through  floora  or  partitions^ 
they  should  always  pass  either  through  earthen  crocks,  or 
what  are  known  as  tin  stove-pipe  thimbles,  which  may  be 
found  in  any  stove  store  or  tinsmith^s.  Lengthening  a  pipe 
will  increase  its  draught. 

For  those  who  use  anChr(zcite  coal^  that  which  is  broken 
or  screened  is  best  for  grates,  and  the  nut-coal  for  small 
stoves.  Three  tons  are  sufficient  in  the  Middle  States,  and 
four  tons  in  the  Northern,  to  keep  one  fire  through  the  win- 
ter. That  which  is  bright,  hard,  and  clean,  is  best ;  and  that 
which  is  soil,  porous,  and  covered  with  damp  dust,  is  poor. 
It  will  be  well  to  provide  two  barrels  of  charcoal  for  kin- 
dling to  every  ton  of  anthracite  coaL  Grates  for  bituminous 
coal  should  have  a  flu^  nearly  as  deep  as  the  grate ;  and  the 
bars  should  be  round  and  ilot  close  together.  The  better 
draught  there  is,  the  less  coal-dust  is  made.  Every  grate 
should  be  furnished  with  a  poker,  shovel,  tongs,  blower,  coal- 
scuttle, and  holder  for  the  blower.  The  latter  may  be  made 
of  woolen,  cover^  with  old  silk,  and  hung  near  the  fire. 

Coal-stoves  should  be  carefully  put  up,  as  cracks  in  the 
pipe,  especially  in  sleeping-rooms,  are  dangerous. 

• 

LIGHTS. 

Professor  Phin,  of  the  Manufacturer  and  Builder^  has 
kindly  given  us. some  late  information  on  this  important 
topic,  which  will  be  found  valuable. 

'  In  choosing  the  source  of  our  light,  the  great  points  to  be 
considered  are, first,  the  influence  on  the  eyes;  and  secondly^ 
economy.  It  is  poor  economy  to  use  a  bad  light  Modem 
houses  in  cities,  and  even  in  large  villages,  are  furnished 
with  gas ;  where  gas  is  not  used,  sperm-oil,  kerosene  or  coal-: 


826  TQB  HOUSBKSEPBB  AND  HBALTHBLBBPBB. 

oily  and  candles  are  employed.  Gas  is  the  cheapest,  (of 
ought  to  be ;)  and  if  properly  used,  is  «8  good  as  any.  •  Good 
sperm-oil  burned  in  an  Argand  lamp — that  is,  a  lamp  with  a 
circular  wick,  like  the  astral  lamp  and  others — is  perhaps 
the  best ;  but  it  is  expensive  and  attended  with  many  incon- 
veniences. Good  kerosene-pil  gives  a  light  which  leaves  lit- 
tle to  be  desired.  Candles  are  used  only  on  rare  occasions, 
though  many  families  prefer  to  manufacture  into  candles  the 
waste  grease  that  accumulates  in  the  household.  The  econo- 
my of  any  source  of  light  will  depend  so  much  upon  local 
circumstances  that  no  absolute  directions  can  be  given. 
:.  The  effect  produced  by  light  on  the  eyes  depends  upon 
the  following  points :  First,  Steadiness.  Nothing  is  more 
ir\jurious  to  the  eyes  than  a  flickering,  unsteady  flame. 
Hence,  all  flames  used  for  light-giving  purposes  ought  to  be 
surrounded  with  glass  chimneys  or  small  shades.  No  naked 
flame  can  ever  be  steady.  Second,  Color.  This  depends 
greatly  upon  the  temperature  of  the  flame.  A  hot  flame 
gives  a  bright,  white  light ;  a  flame  which  has  not  a  high 
temperature  gives  a  dull,  yellow  light,  which  is  very  injuri- 
ous to  the  eyes.  In  the  naked  gas-jet  a  large  portion  of  the 
flame  bums  at  a  low  temperature,  and  the  same  is  the  case 
with  the  flame  of  the  kerosene  lamp  when  the  height  of  the 
chimney  is  not  properly  proportioned  to  the  amount  of  oil 
consumed ;  a  high  wick  needs  a  high  chimney.  In  the  case 
of  a  well-trimmed  Argand  oil-lamp,  or  an  Argand  burner  for 
gas,  the  flame  is  in  general  most  intensely  bot,  and  the  light 
is  of  a  clear  white  character! 

The  third  point  which  demands  attention  is  the  amount 
of  Aeat  transmitted  from  the  flame  to  the  eyes.  It  often 
happens  that  people,  in  order  to  economize  light,  bring  the 
lamp  quite  close  to  the  face.  This  is  a  very  bad  habit 
The  heat  is  more  injurious  than  the  light.  Better  burn  a 
larger  flame,  and  keep  it  at  a  greater  distance. 

It  is  also  well  that  various-sized  lamps  should  be  pro- 
vided to  serve  the  varying  necessities  of  the  household  in 
regard  to  quantity  of  light.  One  of  the  very  best  forms  of 
lamp  is  that  known  as  the  ''  student's  reading-lamp,"  which 
is,  in  the  burner,  an  Argand.     Provide  small  laitips  with 


FIBE8  AND  LIQHTS.  327 

handles  for  carrying  about,  and  broad-bottomed  lamps  for 
the  kitchen,  as  these  are  not  easily  upset.  Hand  and  kitch- 
en lamps  are  best  made  of  metal,  unless  they  are  to  be  used 
by  very  careful  persons. 

Sperm-oil,  lard,  tallow,  etc.,  have  been  superseded  to  such 
an  extent  by  kerosene  that  it  is  scarcely  worth  while  to 
give  any  special  directions  in  regard  to  them.  In  the  choice 
of  kerosene,  attention  should  be  paid  to  two  points :  its  ira/e- 
^y,  and  its  light-giving  qualities.  Kerosene  is  not  a  simple 
fluid,  like  water;  but  is  a  mixture  of  several  liquids,  all  of 
which  boil  at  different  temperatures.  Good  kerosene  -  oil 
should  be  purified  from  all  that  portion  which  boils  or  evap- 
orates at  a  low  temperature ;  for  it  is  the  production  of  this 
vapor,  and  its  mixture  with  atmospheric  air,  that  gives  rise 
to  those  terrible  explosions  which  sometimes  occur  when  a 
light  is  brought  near  a  can  of,  poor  oil.  To  test  the  oil  \\\ 
this  respect,  pour  a  little  into  an  iron  spoon,  and  heat  it  over 
a  lamp  until  it  is  moderately  warm  to  the  touch.  If  the  oil 
produces  vapor  which  can  be  set  on  fire  by  means  of  a  fiamo 
held  a  short  distance  above  the  surface  of  the  liquid,  it  is 
bad.'  Good  oil  poured  into  a  tea-cup  or  on  the  floor  does  not 
easily  take  fire  when  a  light  is  brought  in  contact  with  it. 
Poor  oil  will  instantly  ignite  under  the  same  circumstances, 
and  hence  the  breaking  of  a' lamp  filled  with  poor  oil  is  al- 
ways attended  by  great  peril  of  a  conflagration.  Not  only 
the  safety  but  also  the  light-giving  qualities  of  kerosene  are 
greatly  enhaticed  by  the.  removal  of  these  volatile  and  dan- 
gerous oils.  Hence,  while  good  kerosene  should  be  clear  in 
color,  and  free  from  all  matters  which  can  gum  up  the  wick 
and  thus  interfere  with  free  circulation  and  combustion,  it 
should  also  be  perfectly  safe.  It  ought  to  be  kept  in  a. cool, 
dark  place,  and  carefully  excluded  from  the  air. 

The  care  of  lamps  requires  so  niuch  attention  and  discre- 
tion,'that  many  ladies  choose  to  do  this  work  themselves, 
rather  than  trust  it  with  domestics.  To  do  it  properly,  pro- 
vide the  following  things :  an  old  waiter  to  hold  all  the  arti- 
cles used  ;  a  lamp-filler,  with  a  spout,  small  at  the  end,  and 
turned  up  to  prevent  oil  from  dripping ;  proper  wicks,  and  a 
basket  or  box.  to  hold  them ;  a  lamp-trimnier  made  for  the 


328  THE  HOUSSKEBPSB  AND  HXALTHKSSPSIL 

purpose,  or  a  pair  of  sharp  scissors;  a  small  soap-cup  and 
soap;  some  washing  soda  in  a  broad-moutbed  bottle;  and 
several  soft  cloths  to  wash  the  articles  and  towels  to  wipe 
them.  If  every  thing,  after  being  used,  is  cleansed  from  oil 
and  then  kept  neatly,  it  will  not  be  so  unpleasant  a  task  as 
it  usually  is  to  take  care  of  lamps. 

The  inside  of  lamps  and  oil-cans  should  be  cleapsed  with 
soda  dissolved  in  water.  Be  careful  to  drain  them  well, 
and  not  to  let  any  gilding  or  bronze  be  injured  by  the  soda 
coming  in  contact  with  it.  Put  one  table-spoonful  of  soda 
to  one  quart  of  water. .  Take  the  lamp  to  pieces  and  clean  it 
as  often  as  necessary.  Wipe  the  chimney  at  least  once  a 
day,  and  wash  it  whenever  mere  wiping  fails  to  cleanse  it 
Some  persons,  owing  to  the  dirty  state  of  their  chimneys, 
lose  half  the  light  which  is  produced.  Keep  dry  fingers  in 
trimming  lamps.  Renew  the  wicks  before  they  get  too 
short.  They  should  never  be  allowed  to  bum  shorter  than 
an  inch  and  a  hal£ 

In  regard >  to  shades^  which  >re  always  well  to  use  on 
lamps  or  gas,  those  made  of  glass  or  porcelain  are  now  so 
cheap  that  we  can  recommend  them  as  the  best  without  any 
reservation.  Plain  shades,  making  the  light  soft  and  ^ven, 
do  not  injure  the  eyes.  Lamps  should  be  lighted  with  a 
strip  of  folded  or  rolled  paper,  of  which  a  quantity  should  be 
kept  on  the  mantel-piece.  Weak  eyes  should  always  be  es- 
pecially shaded  from  the  lights.  Small  screens,  made  for 
the  purpose,  should  be  kept  at  hand.  A  person  with  weak 
eyes  can  use  them  safely  much  longer  when  they  are  pro- 
tected from  the  glare  of  the  light.  Fill  the  entry-lamp  every 
day,  and  cleanse  and  fill  night-lanterns  twice  a  week,  if  used 
often.  A  good  night-lamp  is  made  with  a  small  one-wicked 
lamp  and  a  roll  of  tin  to' set  over  it.  Have  some  holes  made 
in  the  bottom  of  this  cover,  and  it  can  then  be  used  to  heat 
articles.  Very  cheap  floating  tapera  can  be  bought  to  bum 
in  a  tea-cup  of  oil  through  the  night. 

TO  MAKE   CANDLES. 

The  nicest  candles  are  those  run  in  molds.  For  this  pur- 
pose, melt  together  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  wax^ 


FIBES  AND  LIGHTS.  820 

one  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  camphor,  two  ounces  of  alum,  and 
ten  ounces  of  suet  or  mutton-tallow.  Soak  tte  wicks  in 
lime-water  and  saltpetre,  and  when   dry,  fix  them  in  the 

.  molds  and  pour  in  the  melted  tallow.  Let  them  remain 
one  night  to  cool;  then  warm  them  a'little  to  loosen  them, 
draw  them  out,  and  when  they  are  hard^put  them  in  a  box 
in  a  dry  and  cool  place. 

To.' make  dipped  candles,  cut  the  wicks  of  the  right  length, 
double, them  over  rods,  and  twist  thenu  They  should  iirat 
be  dipped  in  lime-water  or  vinegar,  and  diied.  Melt  the 
tallow,  in  a  large  kettle,  filling  it  to  the  top  with  hot  water, 
when  the  tallow  is  melted.  Put  in  wax  and  powdered  alum, 
to  harden  them.  Keep  the  tallow  hot  over  a  portable  fur- 
nace, and  fill  the  kettle  with  hot  water  as  fast  as  the  tallow 
is  used  up.  Lay  two  long  strips  of  narrow  board  on  which 
to  hang  the  rods;  and  set  flat  pans  under,  on  the  floor,  to 
catch  the  grease.  Take  several  rods  at  once,  and  wet  the 
wicks  in  the  tallow;  straighten  and  smooth  them  when 
cool.  Then  dip  them  as  fast  as  they  cool,  until  they  become 
of  the  proper  size.  Plunge  them  obliquely  and  not  perpen- 
dicularly ;  and  when  the  bottoms  are  too  large,  hold  them 
in  the  hot  grease  till  a  part  melts  off.  Let  them  remain  one 
night  to  cool ;  then  cut  off  the  bottoms,  and  keep  them  in  a 
dry,  cool  place,     Cheap  lights  are  made  by  dipping  rushes 

'  in  tallow,  the  rushes  being  first  stripped  of  nearly  the  whole 
of  the  hard  outer  covering,  and  the  pith  alone  being  retained 
with  just  enough  of  the  tough  bark  to  keep  it  stiff. 


330      TBB  HOCSBKBBPEB  AND  BBALTHKBBPBB. 


CHAPTER  XXT. 

ON  THB   CABB   OF  BOOMS. 

Ik  selecting  the  furnitare  of  parlors,  some  reference  should 
be  had  to .  correspondence  of  shades  and  colors.  Curtains 
should  be  darker  than  the  walls ;  and,  if  the  walls  and  car- 
pets be  light,  the  chairs  should  be  dark,  and  vich  verscji.  Pic- 
tures always  look  best  on  light  walls. 

In  selecting  carpets  for  rooms  much  used,  it  is  poor  econ- 
omy to  buy  cheap  ones.  Ingrain  carpets,  of  close  texture, 
and  the  three-ply  carpets,  are  best  for  common  use.  Brussels 
carpets  do  not  wear  so  long  as  the  thi*ee-ply  ones,  because 
they  can  not  be  turned.  Wilt07i  carpets  wear  badly,  and 
Venetians  are  good  only  for  halls  and  stairs. 

In  selecting  colors,  avoid  those  in  which  thei-e  are .  any 
bl&ck  threads ;  as  they  are  usually  rotten.  The  most  taste- 
ful carpets  are  those  which  are  made  of  various  shades  of 
the  same  color,  or  of  all  shades  of  only  two  colors;  such  as 
brown  and  yellow,  or  blue  and  buff,  or  salmon  and  green,  or 
all  shades  of  green,  or  of  brown.  All  very  dark  shades 
should  be  brown  or  green,  but  not  black. 
.  In  laying  down  carpets,  it  is  a  bad  practice  to  put  straw 
under  them,  as  this  makes  them  wear  out  in  spots.  Straw 
matting,  laid  under  carpets,  makes  them  last*  much  longer, 
as  it  is  smooth  and  even,  and  the  dust  sifts  through  it.  In 
buying  carpets,  always  get  a  few  yards  over,  to  allow  for 
waste  in  matching  figures. 

In  cutting  carpets,  make  them  three  or  four  incher  shorter 
than  the  room,  to  allow  for  stretching.  Begin  to  cut  in  the 
middle  of  a  figure,  and  it  will  usually  match  better.  Many 
carpets  match  in  two  different  ways,  and  care  must  be  taken 
.to  get  the  right  one.  Sew  a  carpet  on  the  wrong  side,  with 
double  waxed  thread,  and  with  the  tall-stitch.  This  is  done 
by  taking  a  stitch  on  the  breadth  next  you,  pointing  the  nee- 
dle toward  you;   and  then  taking  a  stitch  on  the  other 


OH  THB  CAHE   OP  BOOSfS.  331 

breadth,  pointiog  the  needle  from  yea.  Draw  the  thread 
tightly,  bat  not  so  as  to  pucker.  In  fitting  a  breadth  to  the 
hearth,  cut  slits  in  the  right  place,  and  turn  the  piece  un- 
der. Bind  the  whole  of  the  carpet  with  carpet-binding,  nail 
it  with  tacks,  having  bits  of  leather  under  the  heads.  To 
stretch  the  carpet,  use  a  carpet-fork,  which  is  a  long  stick, 
ending  with  notched  tin,  like  saw-teeth.  This  is  put  in  the 
edge  of  the  carpet,  and  pushed  by  one  pei-son,  while  the  nail 
is  driven  by  another. .  Cover  blocks  or  bricks  with  carpet- 
ing like  that  of  the  room,  and  put  them  behind  tables,  doors, 
sofas,  etc.,  to  preserve  the  walls  from  injury  by  knocking,  or 
«  by  the  dusting-cloth. 

Cheap  footstools,  made  of  a  square  plank,  covered  with 
tow-cloth,  stuffed,  and  then  covered  with  carpeting,  with 
worsted  handles,  look  very  well.  Sweep  carpets  as  seldom 
as  possible,  as  it  wears  them  out.  To  shake  them  oflen  is 
good  economy.  In  cleaning  carpets,  use  damp  tea  leaves,  or 
wet  Indian  meal,  throwing  it  about,  and  -rubbing  it  over 
with  the  broom.  The  latter  is  very  good  for  cleansing  car- 
pets made  dingy  .by  coal-dust.  In  brushing  carpets  in  ordi- 
nary use,  it  will  be  found  very  convenient  to  use  a  large  flat 
dust-pan,  with  a  perpendicular  handle  a  yard  high,  put  on 
so  that  the  pan  will  stand  alone.  This  can  be  can*ied  about 
and  used  without  stooping,  brushing  dust  hito  it  with  a 
commt>n  or  small  whisk  broom.  The  pan  must  be  very 
large,  or  it  will  be  upset. 

When  carpets  are  taken  up,  they  should  be  hung  on  a 
line,  or  laid  on  long  grass,  and  whipped,  first  on  one  side,  and 
then  on  the  other,  with  pliant  whips.  If  laid  aside,  they 
should  be 'sewed  up  tight  in  linen,  having  snuff  or  tobacco 
put  along  all  the  crevices  where  moths  could  enter.  Shak- 
ing pepper,  from  a  pepper-bor,  round  the  edge  of  the  floor, 
under  a  carpet,  prevents  the  access  of  moths. 

Carpets  can  be  best  washed  on  the  floor,  thus :  First  shake 
'  them ;  and  then,  after  cleaning  the  floor,  stretch  and  nail 
them  upon  it.  Then  scrub  them  in  cold  soap-suds,  having 
half  a  tea-cupful  of  ox-gall  to  a  bucket  of  water.  Then  wash 
off  the  suds  with  a  cloth  in  fair  water.  Set  open  the  doors 
and  windows  for  two  days  or  more.    Imperial  Brussels,  Ye- 


382  THE   HOI^SEKSS^XB  AND  flXALTHKEEPXB. 

netian,  ingrain,  and  three-ply  carpets  can  be  washed  thus ; 
bat  Wilton  and  other  plash  carpets  can  not.  Before  wash- 
ing them,  take  out  grease  with  a  paste  made  of  potter's 
clay,  ox-gall,  and  water. 

Straw  matting  is  the  best  for  chambers  and  summer  par- 
lors. The  checked,  of  two  colors,  is  not  so  good  to  wear. 
The  best  is  the  cheapest  in  the  end.  When  wftshed,  it 
should  be  done  with  salt  water,  wiping  it  dry ;  but  frequent 
washing  injures  it.  Bind  matting  with  cotton  binding. 
Sew  breadths  together  like  carpeting.  In  joining  the  ends 
of  pieces,  ravel  out  a  part,  and  tie  the  threads  together,  turn- 
ing under  a  little  of  each  piece,  and  then,  laying  the  ends  , 
close,  nail  them  down,  with  nails  having  kid  under  their 
heads. 

In  hanging  pictures,  put  them  so  that  the  lower  part  shall 
be  opposite  the  eye.  Cleanse  the  glass  of  pictures  with 
whiting,  as  water  endangers  the  pictures.  Gilt  frames  can 
be  much  better  preserved  by  putting  on  a  coat  of  copal  var- 
nish, which,  with  proper  brushes,  can  be  bought  of  carriage 
or  cabinet  makei*s.  When  dry,  it  can  be  washed  with  fair 
water.     Wash  the  brush  in  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Curtains,  ottomans,  and  sofas  covered  with  worsted,  can 
be  cleansed  by  wheat  bran  rubbed  on  with  flannel.  Dust 
Venetian;  blinds  with  feather  brushes.  Buy  light-colored 
ones,  as  the  green  arc  going  of  fashion.  Strips  of  linen  or 
cotton,  on  rollers  and  pulleys,  are  much  in  use,  to  shut  out 
the  sun  from  cui*tains  and  carpets.  Paper  curtains,  pasted 
on  old  cotton,  are  good  for  chambers.  Put  them  on  rollers 
having  cords  nailed  to  them,  so  that  when  the  curtain  falls 
the  cord  will  he  wound  up.  Then,  by  pulling  the  cord,  the 
curtain  will  be  rolled  up. 

House -cleaning  should  be  done  in  dry,  warm  weather. 
Several  friends  of  the  writer  maintain  .that  cleaning  paint, 
and  windows,  and  floors  in  hard^  cold  water,  without  any 
soap,  using  a  flannel  wash-cloth,  is  much  better  than  using' 
warm  suds.  It  is  worth  trying.  In  cleaning  in  the  com? 
mon  way,  sppnges  are  best  for  windows,  and  clean  water 
only  should  be  used.  They  should  be  flrst  wiped  with  lin- 
en, and  then  with  old  silk.    Th&  outside  of  windows  shoiild 


ON  THB  CASB   OF  SOOlCS.  '    633 

» 

be  washed  with  a  long  brash  made  for  the  pni*pose;  and 
they  should  be  riused,  by  throwing  upon  them  water  con- 
taining a  little  saltpetre. 

When  inviting  company,  mention  in  the  note  the  clay  of 
the  month  and  week,  and  the  hour  for  coming.  Provide  a 
place  for  ladies  to  dress  their  hair,  with  a  glass,  pins,  and 
combs.  A  pitcher  of  cold  water  and  a  tumbler  should  be 
added.  When  the  company  is  small,  it  is  becoming  a  com- 
mon method  for  the  table  to  be  set  at  one  end  of  the  room, 
the  lady  of  the  house  to  pour  out  tea,  and  the  gentlemen  of 
the  party  to  wait  on  the  ladies  and  themselves.  When  tea 
is  sent  round,  always  send  a  tea-pot  of  hot  water  to  weaken 
it,  and  a  slop-bowl,  or  else  many  persons  will  drink  their  tea 
much  stronger  than  they  wish. 

Let  it  ever  be  remembered  that  the  burning  of  lights  and 
the  breath  of  guests  are  constantly  exhausting  the  air  of  its 
healthful  principle;  therefore  avoid  crowding  many  guests 
into  one  room.  Do  not  tempt  tHe  palate  by  a  great  variety 
of  unheal thful  dainties.  Have  a  warm  room  for  departing 
guests,  that  they  may  not  become  chilled  before  they  go  out. 

A  parlor  should  be  famished  with  candle  and  fire  screens, 
for  those  who  have  weak  eyes ;  and  if,  at  table,  a  person  sits 
with  the  back  near  the  fire,  a  screen  should  be  hung  on  the 
back  of  the  chair,  as  it  is  very  injurious  to  the  whole  system 
to  have  the  back  heated. 

Pretty  baskets,  for  flowers  or  fruits,  on  centre-tables,  can 
be  made  thus :  Knit,  with  coarse  needles,  all  the  various 
shades  of  green  and  brown,  into  a  square  piece.  Press  it 
with  a  hot  iron,  and  then  ravel  it  out.  Buy  a  pretty-shaped 
wicker-basket,  or  make  one  of  stiff  millinet,  or  thin  paste- 
board,, ciit  the  worsted  into  bunches,  and  sew  them  on,  to 
resemble  moss.  Then  line  the  basket,  and  set  a  cup  or  dish 
of  water  in  it,  to  hold  flowers,  or  use  it  for  a  fruit-basket. 
Handsome  fire-boards  are  made  by  nailing  black  foundation- 
muslin  to  a  frame  the  size  of  the  fire-place,  and  then  cutting 
out  flowers  from  wall-paper  and  pasting  them  on  the  mus- 
lin, according  to  the  fancy. 

Mahogany  furniture  should  be  made  in  the  spring,  and 
stand  some  months  before  it  is  used,  or  it  will  shrink  and 


334  THB  HOU8SKSSPSB  AND  HSALTHKSSI^B. 

warp.  Varnished  faraiture  should  be  rubbed  only  with 
silk,  except  occasionally,  when  a  little  sweet-oil  should  be 
rubbed  over,  and  wiped  off  carefully.  For  unvarnished  fur- 
niture, use  beeswax,  a  little  softeqed  with  sweet-oil ;  rub  it 
in  with  a  hard  brush,  and  polish  with  woolen  and  silk  rags. 
Some  persons  rub  in  linseed-oil ;  othei*8  mix  beeswax  with  a 
little  spirits  of  turpentine  and  rosin,  making  it  so  that  it  can 
be  put  on  with  a  sponge,  and  wiped  off  with  a  sofl  rag. 
Others  keep  in  a  bottle  the  following  mixture :  two  ounces 
of  spirits  of  turpentine,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet^oil,  and 
one  quart  of  milk.  This  is  applied  with  a  sponge,  and  wiped 
off  with  a  linen  rag. 

Hearths  and  jambs,  of  brick,  look  best  painted  over  with 
black-lead,  mixed  with  soft  soap.  Wash  the  bricks  which 
are  nearest  the  fire  ^ith  redding  and  milk,  using  a  painter's 
brush.  A  sheet  of  zinc,  covering  the  whole  hearth,  is  cheap, 
saves  work,  and  looks  very  well.  A  tinman  can  fit  it  prop- 
erly. 

Stone  hearths  should  be  rubbed  with  a  paste  of  powdered 
stone,  (to  be  procured  of  the  stone-cuttei*8,)  and  then  brushed 
with  a  stiff  brush.  Kitchen-hearths,  of  stone,  are  improved 
by  rubbing  in  lamp-oil. 

Stains  can  be  removed  from  marble  by  oxalic  acid  and 
water,  or  oil  of  vitriol  and  water,  lefl  on  fifleen  minutes,  and, 
then  rubbed  dry.  Gray  marble  is  improved  by  linseed-oil. 
Grease  can  be  taken  from  marble  by  ox-gall  and  potter's 
clay  wet  with  soap-suds,  (a  gill  of  each).  It  is  better  to  add, 
also,  a  gill  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  It  improves  the  looks 
of  marble  to  cover  it  with  this  mixture,  leaving  it  two  days, 
and  then  rubbing  it  off. 

Unless  a  parlor  is  in  constant  use,  it  is  best  to' sweep  it 
only  once  a  week,  and  at  other  times  use  a  whisk-broom  and 
dust-pan.  When  a  parlor  with  handsome  furniture  is  to  be 
swept, -cover  the  sofas,  centre-table,  piano,  books,  and  man- 
tel-piece, with  old  cottons,  kept  for  the  purpose.  Remove 
the  rugs,  and  shake  them,  and  clean  the  jambs,  hearth,  and 
fire-furniture.  Then  sweep  the  room,  moving  every  article. 
Dust  the  furniture  with  a  dust-brush  and  a  piece  of  old  silk. 
A  painter's^brush  should  be  kept  to  remove  dust  from  ledges 


ON. THE  CARS   OF  BOOMS.  385 

and  crevices.  Tho  dust-cloths  should  be  often  shaken  and 
washed,  or  else  they  will  soil  the  walls  and  furniture  when 
they  are  used.  Dust  ornaments,  and  fine  books,  with  feath- 
er brushes,  kept  for  the  purpose. 

ON  THE  CABS  OF  BBEAEIFAST  AND  DINING  BOOICS. 

An  eating-room  should  have  in  it  a  large  closet,  with 
drawers  and  shelves,  in  which  should  be  kept  all  the  articles 
used  at  meals.  This,  if  possible,  should  communicate  with 
the  kitchen  by  a  sliding  window,  or  by  a  door,  and  have  in 
it  a  window,  and  also  a  small  sink,  made  of  marble  or  lined 
with  zinc,  which  willbe  a  great  convenience  for  washing 
nice  articles.  If  there  be  a  dumb-waiter,  it  is  best  to  have 
it  connected  with  such  a  closet.  It  may  be  so  contrived, 
that,  when  it  is  down,  it  shall  foim  part  of  the  closet  floor. 

A  table-rug,  or  crumb-cloth,  is  useful  to  save  carpets  from 
injury.  Bocking,  or  baize,  is  best.  Always  spread  the  same 
side  up,  or  the  carpet  will  be  soiled  by  the  rug.  Table-mats 
are  needful,  to  prevent  injury  to  the  table  from  the  warm 
dishes.  Tea-cup-mats,  or  small  plates,  are  useful  to  save  the 
table-cloths  from  dripping  tea  or  coffee.  Butter-knives  for 
the  butter-plate,  and  salt-spoons  for  salt  dishes,  are  designed 
to  prevent .  those  disgusting  marks  which  are  made  when 
persons  use  their  own  knives  to  take  salt  or  butter.  A  sug- 
ar-spoon should  be  kept  in  or  by  the  sugar-dish,  for  the  same 
purpose.  Table-napkins,  of  diaper,  are  often  laid  by  each 
person's  plate,  for  use  during  the  meal,  to  save  the  table- 
cloth and  pocket-handkerchief.  To  preserve  the  same  nap- 
kin for  the  same  person,  each  member  of  the  family  has  a 
given  number,  and  the  napkins  are  numbered  to  con-espond, 
or  else  are  slipped  into  ivory  rings,  which  are  numbered.  '  A 
/tranger  has  a  clean  one  at  each  meal.  Table-cloths  should 
be  well  starched,  and  ironed  on  the  right  side,  and  always,' 
when  taken  off,  folded  in  the  ironed  creases.  Doilies  are 
colored  napkins,  which,  when  fruit  is  offei*ed,  should  always 
be.  ftimished,  to  prevent  a  person  from  staining  a  nice 
handkerchief,  or  permitting  the  fruit -juice  to  dry  on  the 
fingers. 
*    Casters  and  salt-stands  should  be  put  in  order,  every 


386      THB  H0U8EKEXPSS  AND  HBiXTHKXSPSB. 

morning,  when  washing  the  breakfast  things.  Always,  if 
possible,  'provide  Jlne  and  dry  table-salt,  as  many  persons  are 
mnch  disgusted  with  that  which  is  dark,  damp,  and  coarse. 
Be  careful  to  keep  salad-oil  closely  corked,  or  it  will  grow 
rancid.  Never  leave  the  salt-spoons  in  the  salt,  nor  the 
mustard-spoon  in  the  mustard,  as  they  are  thereby  injured. 
Wipe  them  immediately  i^ler  the  meal. 

For  table-furniture,  French  china  is  deemed  the  nicest,  but- 
it. is  liable  to  the  objection  of  having  plates  so  made  that 
salt,  butter,  and  similar  articles,  will  not  lodge  on  the  edge, 
but  slip  into  the  centre.  Select  knives  and  forks  which 
have  weights  in  the  handles,  so  that,  when  laid  down,  they 
will  not  touch  the  table.  Those  with  riveted  handles  last 
longer  than  any  others.  Horn  handles  (except  buck-horn) 
are  very  poor.  The  best  are  cheapest  in  the  end.  Knives 
should  be  sharpened  once  a  month,  unless  they  are  kept 
sharp  by  the  mode  of  scouring. 

* 

ON  setung  tables. 

Neat  housekeepers  observe  the  manner  in  which  a  table 
is  set  more  than  any  thing  else ;  and,  to  a  person  of  good 
taste,  few  things  are  more  annoying  than  to  see  the  table 
placed  askew;  the  table-cloth  soiled,  rumpled,  and  put  on 
awry;  the  plates,  knives,  and  dishes  thrown  about  without 
any  order ;  the  pitchers  soiled  on  the  outside,  and  sometimes 
within;  the  tumblers  dim;  the  caster  out  of  order;  the  but- 
ter pitched  on  the  plate,  without  any  symmetry ;  the  Salt 
ooarse,  d^mp,  and  dark ;  the  bread  cut  in  a  mixture  of  junks 
and  slices ;  the  dishes  of  food  set  on  at  random,  and  without 
mats ;  the  knives  dark  or  rusty,  and  their  handles  greasy ; 
the  tea-furniture  all  out  of  order,  and  every  thing  in  similar 
style.  And  yet,  many  of  these  negligences  will  be  met  with» 
at  the  tables  of  persons  who  call  themselves  well  bred,  atid 
who  have  wealth  enough  to  make  much  outside  show..  One 
reason  for  this  is,  the  great  difficulty  of  finding  domestics 
who  will  attend  to  these  things  in  a  proper  manner,  and 
who,  after  they  have  been  repeatedly  instructed,  will  not 
neglect  nor  forget  what  has  been  said  to  them.  The  writer 
has  known  cases  where  much  has  been  gained  by  placing 


ON  THB  CiJEUB  OF  BOOBiS.  33? 

the  foflowmg  rales  in  plain  sight,  in  the  place  where  the  ar- 
ticles for  setting  tables  are  kept. 

BULSS  FOB  SBTTING  ▲  TABLE. 

1.  Lay  the  rag  sqaare  with  the  room,  and  also  smooth  and 
even ;  then  set  the  table  also  sqaare  with  the  room,  and  see 
that  the  legs  are  in  the  right  position  to  sapport  the  leaves. 

2.  Lay  the  table-cloth  square  with  the  table,  rigfU  side  up^ 
smooth  and  even. 

3.  Pat  on  the  tea-tray  (for  breakfast  or  tea)  square  with 
the  table ;  set  the  caps  and  saucers  at  the  fi*ont  side  of  the 
tea-tray,  and  the  sugar,  slop-bowls,  and  cream-cup  at  the 
back  side.     Lay  the  sugaivspoon  or  tongs  on  the  sngar-bowL 

4.  Lay  the  plates  around  the  table  at  equal  intervals,  and 
the  knives  and  forks  at  regular  distances,  each  in  the  same 
particular  manner,  with  a  cup-mat  or  cup-plate  to  each,  and 
a  napkin  at  the  right  side  of  each  person. 

5.  If  meat  be  used,  set  the  caster  and  salt-cellars  in  the 
centre  of  the  table ;  then  lay  mats  for  the  dishes,  and  place 
the  carving-knife  and  fork  and*  steel  by  the  master  of  the 
house.  Set  the  butter  on  two  plates,  one  on  either  side, 
with  a  butter-knife  by  each. 

6.  Set  the  tea  or  coffee-pot  on  a  mat,  at  the  right  hand  of 
the  tea-tray,  (if  there  be  not  room  upon  it)  Then  place  the 
chairs  around  the  table,  and  call  the  family. 

FOB  DINNBB. 

1.  Place  the  rug,  table,  table-cloth,  plates,  knives  and 
forks,  and  napkins,  as  before  directed,  with  a  tumbler  by 
each  plate.  In  cold  weather,  set  the  plates  where  they  will 
be  warmed. 

2.  Put  the  caster  in  the  centre,  and  the  salt-stands  at  two 
oblique  comers,  of  the  table,  the  latter  between  two  large 
spoons  crossed.  If  more  spoons  be  needed,  lay. them  on 
each  side  of  the  caster,  crossed.  Set  the  pitcher  on  a  mat, 
either  at  a  side-table,  or,  when  there  is  no  waiter,  on  the  din- 
ing-table.     Water  looks  best  in  glass  decanters. 

3.  Set  the  bread  on  the  table,  when  there:  is  no  waiter. 
Some  take  a  fork  and  lay  a  piece  on  the  napkinf  or.  tumbler 

15 


338      TU£  H0U5BKBXPKB  AND  HBALTHKSSPKB. 

by  each  plate.  .  Others  keep  it  in  a  tray,  coyered  with  « 
white  napkin  to  keep  off  flies.  Bread  for  dinner  is  often  oat 
in  small  junks,  and  not  in  slices. 

4.  Set  the  principal  dish  before  the  master  of  the  house, 
and  the  other  dishes  in  a  regular  manner.  Put  the  carving- 
knife,  fork,  and  steel  by  the  principal  dish,  and  also  a  knife- 
rest,  if  one  be  used. 

5.  Put  a  small  knife  and  fork  by  the  pickles,  and  also  by 
any  other  dishes  which  need  them.    Then  place  the  chairs. 

ON  WAITING  AT  TABLE. 

A  domestic  who  waits  on  the  table  should  be  required  to 
keep  the  hair  and  hands  in  neat  order,  and  have  on  a  clean 
apron.  A  small  tea-tray  should  be  used  to  carry  cups  and 
plates.  The  waiter  should  announce  the  meal  (when  ready) 
to  the  mistress  of  the  family,  then  stand  by  the  eating-room 
door  till  all  are  in,  then  close  the  door,  and  step  to  the  left 
side  of  the  lady  of  the  house.  When  all  are  seated,  the 
waiter  should  remove  the  covers,  taking  care  first  to  invert 
them,  so  as  not  to  drop  the  steam  on  the  table-cloth  or 
guests.  In  presenting  articles,  go  to  the  left  side  of  the 
person.  In  pouring  water,  never  entirely  fill  the  tumbler. 
The  waiter  should  notice  when  bread  or  water  is  wanting, 
and  hand  it  without  being  called.  When  plates  are  changed, 
be  careful  not  to  drop  knives  or  forks.  Brush  off  crumbs, 
with  a  crumb-brush,  into  a  small  waiter. 

When  there  is  no  domestic  waiter,  a  light  table  should  be 
set  at  the  left  side  of  the  mistress  of  the  house,  on  which  the 
bread,  water,  and  other  ai*ticles  not  in  immediate  use  can  be 
placed. 

ON  CABVTNG  AND  HBLPINO  AT  TABLE. 

It  is  considered  an  accomplishment  for  a  lady  to  know 
how  to  carve  well  kt  her  own  table.  It  is  not  proper  to 
stand  in  carving.  The  carving-knife  should  be  sharp  and 
thin.  To  carve  fowls  (which  should  always  be  laid  with 
the  breast  uppermost,)  place  the  fork  in  tKe  breast,  and  take 
off  the  wings  and  legs  without  turning  the  fowl;  then  cut 
out  the  nierry-thought,  cut  slices  from  the  breast,  take  out 


ON  THE   CABE   OF   ItOOMS.  839 

the  collar  bone,  cut  off  the  side  pieces,  and  then  cat  the  car-' 
cass  in  two.     Divide  the  joints  in  the  leg  of  a  turkey. 

In  helping  the  guests,  when  no  choice  is  expressed,  give  a 
piece  of  both  the  white  and  dark  meat,  with  some  of  the 
stuffing.  Inquire  whether  the  guest  will  be  helped  to  each 
kind  of  vegetable,  and  put  the  gravy  on  the  plate,  and  not 
on  any  article  of  food. 

In  carving  a  sirloin,  cut  thin  slices  from  the  side  next  to 
you,  (it  must  be  put  on  the  dish  with  the  tenderloin  under- 
neath;) then  turn  it,  and  cut  from  the  tenderloin.  Help  the 
guest  to  both  kinds. 

In  carving  a  leg  of  mutton  or  a  ham,  begin  by  cutting 
across  the  middle  to  the  bone.  Cut  a  tongue  across,  and 
not  lengthwise,  and  help  from  the  middle  part 

Carve  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb  by  separating  the  shoulder 

from  the  ribs,  and  then  dividing  the  ribs.    To  carve  a  loin 

of  veal,  begin  at  the  smaller  end  and  separate  the  ribs.    Help 

.  each  one  to  a  piece  of  the  kidney  and  its  fat.     Carve  pork 

and  mutton  in  the  same  way. 

To  carve  a  fillet  of  veal,  begin  at  the  top,  and  help  to  the 
stuffing  with  each  slice.  In  a  breast  of  veal,  separate  the 
breast  and  brisket,  and  then  cut  them  up,  asking  which  part 
is  preferred.  In  carving  a  pig,  it  is  customary  to  divide  it, 
and  take  off  the  head,  l>efore  it  comes  to  the  table ;  as,  to 
many  persons,  the  head  is  very  revolting.  Cut  off  the  limbs, ' 
and  divide  the  nbs.  In  carving  venison,  make  a  deep  in- 
cision down  to  the  bone,  to  let  out  the  juices;  then  turn  the 
broad  end  of  the  haunch  toward  you,  cutting  deep,  in  thin 
slices.  For  a  saddle  of  venison,  cut  from  the  tail  toward 
the  other  end,  on  each  side,  in  thin  slices.  Warm  plates  are 
very  necessary  with  venison  and  mutton,  and  in  winter  are 
desirable  for  all  meats. 

ON  THB  CABE  OF  CHAHBEBS  AND  BEDBOOMS. 

Every  mistress  of  a  family  should  see  not  only  that  alL 
sleeping-rooms  in  her  house  can  be  well  ventilated,  at  night, 
but  that  they  actually  are  so.     Where  there  is  no  open  fire- 
place to  admit  the  pure  air  from  the  exterior,  a  door  should 
be  left  open  into  an  entry,  or  room  where  fresh  air  is  admit- 


840  .    THE  HOUSBSLSBPEB  AND  HBALTBKEEPEB. 

ted ;  or  else  a  small  opening  shoald  be  made  in  the  top  and 
*  bottom  of  a  window,  taking  care  not  to  allow  a  draagbt  of 
air  to  cross  the  bed.  The  debility  of  childhood,  the  lassitude 
of  domestics,  and  the  ill  health  of  families,  are  often  caased 
by  neglecting  to  provide  a  sapply  of  pare  air.  Straw  mat- 
ting is  best  for  a  chamber  carpet,  and  strips  of  woolen  car- 
peting may  be  laid  by  the  side  of  the  bed.  Where  cham- 
bers have  no  closets,  a  aoardrohe  is  indispensable.  A  low 
sqnare  box,  set  on  casters,  with  a  cushion  on  the  top,  and  a 
drawer  on  one  side  to  put  shoes  in,  is  a  great  convenience  in 
dressbg  the  feet  An  old  Champagne  basket,  fitted  up  with 
a  cushion  on  the  lid,  and  a  valance  fastened  to  it  to  cover 
the  sides,  can  be  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

Another  convenience,  for  a  room  where  sewing  is  done  in 
summer,  is  a  fancy  jar,  set  in  one -corner,  to  receive  clippings, 
and  any  other  rubbish.  It  can  be  covered  with  prints  or 
paintings,  and  varnished,  and  then  looks  very  prettily. 

The  trunks  in  a  chamber  can  be  improved  in  looks  and 
comfort  by  making  cushions  of  the  same  size  and  shape, 
stuffed  with  hay  and  covered  with  chintz,  with  a  frill  reach- 
ing nearly  to  the  floor. 

Every  bed-chamber  should  have  a  wash-stand,  bowl,  pitch- 
er, and.  tumbler,  with  a  wash-bucket  under  the  stand,  to  re- 
ceive slops.  A  light  screen,  made  like  a  clothes-frame,  and 
covered  with  paper  or  chintz,  should  be  furnished  for  bed- 
rooms  occupied  by  two  persons,  so  that  ablutions  can  be 
performed  in  privacy.  It  can  be  ornamented,  so*  as  to  look 
well  anywhere.  A  little  frame,  or  towel-horse,  by  the  wash- 
stand,  on  which  to  dry  towels,  is  a  convenience.  A  wash- 
stand  should  be  furnished  with  a  sponge  or  wash-cloth,  and 
a  small  towel,  for  wiping  the  basin  after  usbg  it.  This 
should  be  hung  on  the  wash-stand  or  towel-horse,  for  con- 
stant use.  A  soap-dish,  and  a  dish  for  tooth-brushes,  are  neat 
and  convenient,  and  each  person  should  be  furnished  with 
two  towels ;  one  for  the  feet,  and  one  for  other  purposes. 

It  is  in  good  taste  to  have  the  curtains,  bed-quilt^  valance, 

and  window-curtains  of  similar  materials.    In  making  feath- 

.  er-beds,  side-pieces  should  be  put  in,  like  those  of  mattresses, 

and  the  bed  should  be  well  filled,  so  that  a  person  will  not 


ON  THB  CABE  OF  BOOMS.*  841 

be  buried  in  a  hollow,  which  is  not  healthfal,  save  in  ex- 
tremely cold  weather.  Feather-beds  should  never  be  used 
except  in  cold  weather.  At  other  times,  a  thin  mattress  of 
hair,  cotton  and  moss,  or  straw,  should  be  put  over  them.  A 
simple  strip  of  broad  straw  matting,  spread  over  a  feather- 
bed, answers  the  same  purpose.  Nothing  is  more  debilita- 
ting than,  in  warm  weather,  to  sleep  with  a  feather-bed  press- 
ing round  the  greater  part  of  the  body.  Pillows  stuffed 
with  papers  an  inch  square  are  good  for  summer,  especially 
for  young  children,  whose  heads  should  be  kept  cool.  The 
cheapest  and  best  covering  of  a  bed,  for  winter,  is  a  cotton 
comforter^  made  to  contain  three  or  four  pounds  of  cotton, 
laid  in  bats  or  sheets,  between  covers  tacked  together  at 
regular  intervals.  They  should  be  three  yards  square,  and 
less  cotton  should  be  pat  at  the  sides  that  are  tacked  in.  It 
is  better  to  have  two  thin  comforters  to  each  bed,  than  one 
thick  one ;  as  then  the  covering  can  be  regulated  according 
to  the  weather. 

Few  domestics  will  make  a  bed  properly  without  much 
attention  from  the  mistress  of  the  family.  The  following  di- 
rections should  be  given  to  those  wJio  do  this  work : 

Open  the  windows,  and  lay  off  the  bed-covering,  on  two 
chairs,  at  the  foot  of  the  bed.  Afler  the  bed  is  well  aired, 
shake  the  feathers,  from  each  comer  to  the  middle ;  then 
take  up  the  middle,  and  shake  it  well,  and  turn  the  bed  over. 
Then  push  the  feathers  in  place,  making  the  head  higher 
than  the  foot,  and  the  sides  even,  and  as  high  as  the  middle 
part.  Then  put  on  the  bolster  and  the  under  sheet,  so  that 
the  wrong  side  of  the  sheet  shall  go  next  the  bed,  and  the 
marking  come  at  the  head,  tucking  in  all  around.  Then  put 
on  the  pillows,  even,  so  that  the  open  ends  shall  come  to  the 
sides  of  the  bed,  and  then  spread  on  the  upper  sheet,  so  that 
the  wrong  side  shall  be  next  the  blankets  and  the  marked 
end  at  the  head.  This  arrangement  of  sheets  is  to  prevent 
the  part  where  the  feet  lie  from  being  reversed,  so  as  to 
come  to  the  face,  and  also  to  prevent  the  parts  soiled  by  the 
body  from  coming  to  tlie  bed-tick  and  blankets. ,  Then  put 
on  the  other  covering,  except  the  outer  one,  tucking  in  all 
.around,  and  then  turn  over  the  upper  sheet,  at  the  head,  so 


842      THE  H0U8SKESPBB  AND  HZALTHKSSPBB, 

as  to  show  a  part  of  the  pillows.  When  the  pillow-cases 
are  clean  and  smooth,  they  look  best  outside  of  the  cover, 
but  not  otherwise.  Then  draw  the  hand  along  the  side  of 
the  pillows,  to  make  an  even  indentation,  and  then  smooth 
and  shape  the  whole  oatside.  A  tiice  housekeeper  always 
notices  the  manner  in  which  a  bed  is  made;  and  in  some 
parts  of  the  country  it  is  rare  to  see  this  work  properly  per- 
formed. 

The  writer  would  here  urge  every  mistress  of  a  family 
who  keeps  more  than  one  domestic  to  provide  them  with 
single  beds,  that  they  may  not  be  obliged  to  sleep  with  all 
the  changing  domestics,  who  come  and  go  so  often.  Where 
the  room  is  too  small  for  two  beds,  a  narrow  trnckle-bed 
.under  another  will  answer.  Domestics  should  be  furnished 
with  washing  conveniences  In  their  chambers,  and  be  en- 
couraged to  keep  their  persons  and  rooms  neat  and  in  order. 

ON  PACKING  AND   STORING  ARTICLES. 

Fold  a  gentleman's  coat  thus:  Lay  it  on  a  table  or  bed, 
the  inside  downward,  and  unroll  the  collar.  Double  each 
sleeve  once,  making  the  crease  at  the  elbow,  and  laying 
them  so  as  to  make  the  fewest  wrinkles,  and  parallel  with 
the  skirts.  Turn  the  fronts  over  the  back  and  sleeves,  and 
then  turn  up  the  skirts,  making  all  as  smooth  as  possible. 

Fold  a  shirt  thus :  One  that  has  a  bosom-piece  inserted, 
lay  on  a  bed,  bosom  downward.  Fold  each  sleeve  twice, 
and  lay  it  parallel  with  the  sides  of  the  shirt.  Turn  the 
two  sides,  with  the  sleeves,  over  the  middle  part,  and  then 
turn  up  the  bottom,  with  two  folds.  This  makes  the  collar 
and  bosom  lie,  unpressed,  on  the  outside. 

Fold  a  frock  thus :  Lay  its  front  downward,  so  as  to  make 
the  first  creases  in  folding  come  in  the  side  breadths.  To 
do  this,  find  the  middle  of  the  side  breadths  by  first  putting 
the  middle  of  the  front  and  back  breadths  together.  Next, 
fold  over  the  side  creases  so  as  just  to  meet  the  slit  behind. 
Then  fold  the  skirt  again,  so  as  to  make  the  backs  lie  to- 
gether, within  and  the  fronts  without.  Then  arrange  the 
waist  and  sleeves,  and  fold  the  skirt  around  them. 

In  packing  trunks  for  traveling,  put  all  heavy  articles  at 


ON  THB  CAIUS   OF  BOOMS.  84^8 

the  bottom,  covered  with  papier,  which  shoald  not  be  print- 
ed, as  the  ink  rabs  o£  Pat  coats  and  pantaloons  into  linen 
case?,  made  for  the  purpose,  and  furnished  with  strings. 
Fill  all  crevices  with  small  articles ;  as,  if  »  trunk  is  not  full, 
nor  tightly  packed,  its  contents  will  be  shaken  about  and 
get  injured.  Fnder-clothing  packs  closer  by  being  rolled 
lightly,  instead  of  being  folded. 

Bonnet-boxes,  made  of  light  wood,  with  a  lock  and  key,^ 
are  better  than  the  paper  bandboxes  so  annoybg  to  trav- 
elers. .  Carpetrbags  are  very  useful,  to  carry  the  articles  to 
be  used  on  a  journey.  The  best  ones  have  sides  inserted, 
iron  rims,  and  a  lock  and  key.  A  large  silk  traveling-bag, 
with  a  double  linen  lining,  in  which  are  stitched  receptacles 
for'  tooth-brush,  combs,  and  other  small  articles,  is  a  very 
convenient  article  for  use  when  traveling. 

A  bonnet-cover,  made  of  some  thin  material,  like  a  large 
hood  with  a  cape,  is  useful  to  draw  over  the  bonnet  and  * 
neck,  to  keep  off  dust,  sun,  and  sparks  from  a  steam-engine. 
Green  veils  are  very  apt  to  stain  bonnets  when  damp. 

In  packing  household  furniture  for  moving,  have  each 
box  numbered,  and  then  have  a  book,  in  which,  as  each  box 
is  packed,  note  down  the  number  of  the  box,  and  the  order 
in  which  its  contents  are  packed,  as  this  will  save  much  la- 
bor and  perplexity  when  unpacking.  In  packing  china  and 
glass,  wrap  each  article  separately  in  paper,  and  put  sofl 
hay  or  straw  at  bottom  and  all  around  each.  Put  the  heav- 
iest articles  at  the  bottom,  and  on  the  top  of  the  box  write, 
"  This  side  up." 

ON  THE  CABE   OF  THE  KITCHEN,  CELLAR,  AND  8T0BE-B00M. 

If  parents  wish  their  daughters  to  grow  up  with  good 
domestic  habits,  they  should  have,  as  one  means  of  securing 
this  result,  a  neat  and  cheerful  kitchen.  A  kitchen  should 
always,  if  possible,  be  entirely  above-ground,  and  well  light- 
ed. It  should  have  a  large  sink,  with  a  drain  running  un- 
der-ground, so  that  all  the  premises  may  be  kept  sweet  and 
clean.  If  flowers  and  shrubs  be  cultivated  around  the  doors 
and  windows,  and  the  yard  near  them  be  kept  well  turfed, 
it  will  add  very  much  to  their  agreeable  appearance.    The 


844  THB   nonSSKSEPE9  AND  HSIXTHKSEPB^ 

walls  should  often  be  cleaned  and  whitewashed,  to  promote 
a  neat  look  and  pare  air.  The  floor  of  a  kitchen  should  be 
painted)  or,  which  is  better,  covered  with  an  oil-cloth.  To 
procure  a  kitchen  oil-icloth  as  cheaply  as  possible,  buy  cheap 
tow  cloth,  and  fit  it  to  the  size  and  shape  of  the  kitchen. 
Then  have  it  stretched,  and  nailed  to  the  south  side  of  the« 
bam,  and  with  a  brush  cover  it  with  a  coat  of  thin  rye 
paste.  When  this  is  dry,  put  on  a  coat  of  yellow  paint,  and 
let  it  dry  for  a  fortnight.  It  is  safest  to  first  try  the  paint, 
and  see  if  it  dries  well,  as  some  paint  never  will  dry.  Then 
put  on  a  second  coat,  and,  at  the  end  of  another  fortnight,  a 
third  coat.  Then  let  it  hang  two  months,  and  it  will  last, 
uninjured,  for  many  years.  The  longer  the  paint  is  left  to 
dry,  the  better.    If  varnished,  it  will  last  much  longer.  ^ 

A  sink  should  be  scalded  out  every  day,  and  occasionally 
with  hot  ley.  On  nails,  over  the  sink,  should  be  hung  three 
good  dish-cloths,  hemmed,  and  furnished  with  loops— one  for 
dishes  not  greasy,  one  for  greasy  dishes,  and  one  for  wash- 
ing pots  and  kettles.  These  should  be  put  in  the  wash 
every  week.  The  lady  who  insists  upon  this  will  not  be 
annoyed  by  having  her  dishes  washed  with  dark,  musty,  and 
greasy  rags,  as  is  too  frequently  the  case. 

Under  the  sink  should  be  kept  a  slop-pail ;  and,  on  a  shelf 
by  it,  a  soap-dish  and  two  water-pails.  A  large  boiler,  of 
warm  soft  water,  should  always  be  kept  over  the  fire,  well 
covered,  and  a  hearth-broom  and  bellows  be  hung  near  the 
,  fire.  A  clock  is  a  very  important  article  in  the  kitchen,  in 
order  to  secure  regularity  at  meals.  ^ 

ON   WASHING  DISHES. 

No  item  of  domestic  labor  is  so  frequently  done  in  a  neg- 
ligent manner  by  domestics  as  this.  A  full  supply  of  con- 
veniences will  do  much  toward  a  remedy  of  this  evil.  A 
swab,  made  of  strips  of  linen,  tied  to  a  stick,  is  useful  to 
wash  nice  dishes,  especially  small,  deep  articles.  Two  or 
three  towels,  and  three  dish-cloths,  should  be  used.  Two 
large  tin  tubs,  painted  on  the  outside,  should  be  provided ; 
one  for  washing,  and  one  for  rinsing;  also,  a  large  old 
waiter,  on  which  to  drain  the  dishes.    A  soap-dish,  with 


ON  THE   CASE   OF  BOOMS.  345 

hard  soap,  and  a  fork,  with  which  to  use  it,  a  slop-pail,  and 
two  pails  for  water,  should  also  be  furnished.  Theu,  if  there 
l>e  danger  of  neglect,  the  following  rules  for  washing  dishes, 
legibly  wntten,  may  be  hung  up  by  the  sink,  and  it  will  aid 
in  promoting  the  desired  care  and  neatness. 

BinUCS  FOB  WASHINO  DISHES. 

.  1.  Scrape  the  dishes,  putting  away  any  food  which  may 
remain  on  them,  and  which  it  may  be  proper  to  save  for  fu- 
ture use.  Put  grease  into  the  grease-pot,  and  whatever 
else  may  be  on,  the  plates,  into  the  slop-pail.  Save  tea- 
le&ves,  for  sweeping.  Set  all  the  dishes,  when  scraped,  in 
regular  piles ;  the  smallest  at  the  top. 

2.  Put  the  nicest  articles  in  the  wash-dish,  and  wash  them 
in  hot  suds,  with  the  swab  or  nicest  dish-cloth.  Wipe  all 
metal  articles  as  soon  as  they  are  washed.  Put  all  the  rest 
into  the  rinsing-dish,  which  should  be  filled  with  hot  water. 
When  they  are  taken  out,  lay  them  to  d^ain  on  the  waiter. 
Then  rinse  the  dish-cloth  and  hang  it  up,  wipe  the  articles 
washed,  and  put  them  in  their  places. 

8.  Pour  in  more, hot  water,  wash  the  greasy  dishes  with 
the  dish-cloth  made  for  them ;  rinse  them,  and  set  them  to 
drain.  Wipe  them,  and  set  them  away.  Wash  the  knives 
and  forks,  being  careful  thcU  the  handles  are  never  put  in 
water;  wipe  them,  and  then  lay  them  in  a  knife-dish  to  be 
scoured. 

4.  Take  a  fresh  supply  of  clean  suds,  in  which  wash  the 
milk-pans,  buckets,  and  tins.  Then  rinse  and  hang  up  this 
dish-cloth,  and  take  the  other ;  with  which  wash  the  roaster, 
gridiron,  pots,  and  kettles.  Then  wash  and  rinse  the  dish- 
cloth, and  hang  it  up.  Empty  the  slop-bucket  and  scald  it. 
Dry  metal  tea-pots  and  tins  before  the  fire.  Then  put  the 
fire-place  in  order,  and  sweep  and  dust  the  kitchen. 

Some  persons  keep  a  deep  and  narrow  vessel,  in  which  to 
wash  knives  with  a  swab,  so  that  a  careless  domestic  can  not 
lay  them  in  the  water  while  washing  them.  This  article  can 
be  carried  into  the  eating-room,  to  receive  the  knives  and 
forks  when  they  are  taken  from  the  table. 

16* 


846  tHS   HOV8XKEBPXB  AND  nSlXTHKXXFXB. 


KITCHEN  FtrBNITUBB. 

Crockery, — Brown  earthen  pans  are  said  to  be  best  for 
milk  and  for  cooking.  Tin  pans  are  lighter,  and  more  oon- 
venient,  bat  are  too  cold  for  many  purposes.  Tall  earthen 
jars  with  covers  are  good  to  hold  butter,  salt,  lard,  etc. 
Acids  should  never  be  put  into  the  red  earthenware,  as 
there  is  a  poisonous  ingredient  in  the  glazing  which  the  acid 
tc^kes  off.  Stone  ware  is  better  and  stronger,  and  safer  every 
way  than  any  other  kind. 

Iron  Ware. — ^Many  kitchens  are  very  imperfectly  supplied 
with  the  requisite  conveniences  for  cookidg.  When  a  per- 
son has  sufficient  means,  the  following  articles  are  all  desira- 
ble: A  nest  of  iron  pots,  of  different  sizes,  (they  should  be 
slowly  heated  when  new ;)  a  long  iron  fork,  to  take  out  arti- 
cles from  boiling  water ;  an  iron  hook  with  a  handle,  to 
liA;  pots  from  the  crane ;  a  large  and  small  gridiron,  with 
grooved  bars,  apd  a  trench  to  catch  the  grease;  a  Dutch 
oven,  called  also  a  bake-pan  :  two  skillets,  of  different  sizes, 
and  a  spider,  or  flat  skillet,  for  frying;  a  griddle,  a  waffle- 
iron,  tin  and  iron  bake  and  bread  pans ;  two  ladles,  of  differ- 
ent sizes ;  a  skimmer ;  iron  skewers ;  a  toasting-iron ;  two 
tea-kettles,  one  small  and  one  large  one ;  two  brass  kettles, 
of  different  sizes.  Tor  soap-boiling,  etc.  Iron  kettles  lined 
with  porcelain  are  better  for  preserves.  The  German  are 
the  best.  Too  hot  a  Are  will  crack  them,  but  with  care  in 
this  respect  they  will  last  for  many  years. 

Portable  charcoal  furnaces,  of  iron  or  clay,  are  very  useful 
in  summer,  in  washing,  ironing,  and  stewing,  or  making  pre- 
serves. If  used  in  the  house,  a  strong  draught  must  be 
made,  to  prevent  the  deleterious  effects  of  the  charcoal.  A 
box  and  mill,  for  spice,  pepper,  and  coffee,  are  needful  to 
those  who  use  these  articles.  Strong  knives  and  forks,  a 
sharp  carving-knife,  an  iron  cleaver  and  board,  a  fine  saw, 
steelyards,  chopping-tray  and  knife,  an  apple-parer,  steel  for 
sharpening  knives,  sugar-nippers,  a  dozen  iron  spoons,  also  a 
large  iton  one  with  a  long  handle,  six  or  eight  flat-irons,  one 
of  them  very  small,  two  iron-stands,  a  ruffle-iron,  a  crimping- 
iron.  are  also  desirable. 

THn  Ware, — Bread -pans  •  large  and  small  patty-pans ;  cake- 


.     ON  TH£  CABB  OF  BOOMS.  347 

pans,  with  a  centre  tube  to  insare  their  baking  well ;  pie- 
dishes,  (of  block-tin ;)  a  covered  butter-kettle ;  covered  "ket- 
tles to  hold  berries ;  two  saucepans ;  a  large  oil-can,  (with 
a -cock;)  a  lamp-filler;  a  lantern;  broad -bottomed  candle- 
sticks for  the  kitchen ;  a  candle-box ;  a  funnel ;  a  reflector 
for  baking  warm  cakes ;  an  oven  or  tin-kitchen ;  an  apple- 
corer;  an  apple-roaster:  an  egg-boiler;  two  sugar-scoops, 
and  flour  and  meal  scoop ;  a  set  of  mugs ;  three  dippers ;  a 
pint,  quart,  and  gallon  measure ;  a  set  of  scales  and- weights; 
three  or  four  pails,  painted  on  the  outside ;  a  slop-bucket 
with  a  tight  cover,  painted  on  the  outside ;  a  milk-strainer ; 
a  gravy-strainer;  a  colander;  a  dredging-box ;  a  pepper- 
box ;  a  large  and.  small  grater ;  a  cheese-box ;  also  a  large 
box  for  cake,  and  a  still  larger  one  for  bread,  with  tight  cov- 
ei-s.  Bread,  cake,  and  cheese,  shut  np  in  this  way,  will  not 
grow  dry  as  in  the  open  air. 

Wooden  Ware.— A  nest  of  tubs ;  a  set  of  pails  and  bowls ; 
a  large  and  small  sieve;  a  beetle  for  mashing  potatoes;  a 
spade  or  stick  for  stirring  butter  and  su^ar ;  a  bread-board, 
for  molding  bread  and  making  pie-crust ;  a  coffee-stick;  a 
clothes-stick  ^  a  mush<^stick ;  a  meat-beetle,  to  pound  tough 
meat;  an  egg-beater;  a  ladle, for  working  butter;  a  bread- 
trough,  (for  a  large  family ;)  flour-buckets,  with  lids,  to  hold 
sifted  flour  and  Indian  meal ;  salt-boxes ;  sugar-boxes ;  starch 
and  indigo  boxes;  spice -boxes;  a  bosom -board;  a  skirt- 
*  board ;  a  large  ironing-board ;  two  or  three  clothes-frames ; 
and  six  dozen  clothes-pins. 

Basket  Ware. — Baskets  of  all  sizes^  for  eggs,  fruit,  market- 
ing, clothes,  etc. ;  also  chip-baskets.  When  oflen  used,  they 
should  be  washed  in  hot  suds. 

Other  Articles. — Every  kitchen  needs  a  box  containing 
balls  of  brown  thread  and  twine,  a  large  and  smalt  darning- 
needle,  rolls  of  waste  paper  and  old  linen  and  cotton,  and  a 
supply  of  common  holders.  There  should  also  be  another 
box,  containing  a  hammer,  carpet-tacks,  and  nail^f  all  sizes, 
a  carpet-claw,  screws  and  a  screw-driver,  pincers,  gimlets  of 
several  sizes,  a  bed-screw,  a  small  saw,  two  chisels,  (one^ 
use  for  button-holes  in  broadcloth,)  two  awls,  and  two  files. 
.  In  a  drawer  or  cupboard  should  be  placed  cotton  table- 
cloths for  kitchen   use ;    nice   crash  towels  for  tumblers. 


348  THS   HOUSBKSSPSB  AND 

marked  T  T ;  coarser  towels  for  dishes  marked  T ;  six  large 
roller-towels;  a  dozen  hand-towels,  marked  H  T;  and  a  dozen 
hemmed  dish-cloths  with  loops.  Also  two  thick  linen  pad- 
ding or  dumpling  cloths,  a  jelly-bag  made  of  white  flannel,  to 
strain  jelly,  a  starch-strainer,  and'  a  bag  for  boiling  clothes. 

In  a  closet  should  be  kept,  arranged  in  order,  the  follow- 
ing articles:  the  dust-pan,  dust-brush,  and  dusting-cloths, 
old  flannel  and  cotton  for  scouring  and  rubbing,  large 
sponges  for  washing  windows  and  looking-glasses,  a  long 
brush  for  cobwebs,  and  another  for  washing  the  outside  of 
windows,  whisk-brooms,  common  brooms,  a  coat-broom  or 
brush,  a  whitewash-brush,  a  stove-brush,  shoe-brushes  and 
blacking,  articles  for  cleaning  tin  and  silver,  leather  for  clean- 
ing metals,  bottles  containing  stain-mixtures  and  other  arti- 
cles used  in  cleansing.  * 

CABB   OF  THE   CSLUUEL 

A  cellar  should  often  be  whitewashed,  to  keep  it  sweet. 
It  should  have  a  drain  to  keep  it  perfectly  dry,  as  standing 
wrater  in  a  cellar  is  a  sure  cause  of  disease  in  a  family.  It 
is  very  dangerous  to  leave  decayed  vegetables  in  a  cellar. 
Many  a  fever  has  been  caused  by  the  poisonous  miasm  thus 
generated.  The  following  articles  are  desirable  in  a  cellar : 
a  safe,  or  movable  closet,  with  sides  of  wire  or  perforated 
tin,  in  which  cold  meats,  cream,  and  other  articles  should  be 
kept ;  (if  ants  be  troublesome,  set  the  legs  in  tin  cups  of 
water ;)  a  refrigerator,  or  a  large  wooden  box,  on  feet,  with 
a  lining  of  tin  or  zinc,  and  a  space  between  the  tin  and  wood 
filled  with  powdered  charcoal, having  at  the  bottom  a  place  for 
ice,  a  drain  to  caiTy  off  the  water,  and  also  movable  shelves 
and  pailitions.  In  this  articles  are  kept  cool.  It  should  be 
cleaned  once  a  week.  Filtering-jars,  to  purify  water,  should 
also  be  kept  in  the  cellar.  Fish  and  cabbages  in  a  cellar  are 
apt  to  scent  a  house,  and  give  a  bad  taste  to  other  articles. 

STOBE-BOOM. 

Every  house  needs  a  store-room,  in  which  to  keep  tea, 
coffee,  sugar,  rice,  candles,  etc.  It  should  be  furnished  with 
jars  having  labels,  a  large  spoon,  a  fork,  sugar  and  flour 
scoops,  a  towel,  and  a  dish-cloth. 


THS  CASE  07  TASD8  AND  GABDXNS.         840^ 


CHAPTER  XXn. 

THE  CABE  OF  YARDS  AND  OABDENS. 

First,  l6t  us  say  a  few  words  on  the  I^eparcUian  of  SoU 
J£  the  garden  soil  be  clayey  and  adhesive,  pat  on  a  covering 
of  sand,  three  inches  thick,  and  the  same  depth  of  well-rotted 
manure.  Spade  it  in  as  deep  as  possible,  and  mix  it  well. 
If  the  soil  be  sandy  and  loose,  spade  in  clay  and  ashes. 
Ashes  are  good  for  all  kinds  of  soil,  as  they  loosen  those 
which  are  close,  hold  moisture  in  those  which  are  sandy,  and 
destroy  insects.  The  best  kind  of  soil  is  that  which  will 
hold  water  the  longest  without  becoming  hard  when  dry. 

To  pr^are  Soil  for  Pot-plafUSy  take  one  fourtli  part  of 
common  soil,  one  fourth  part  of  well-decayed  manure,  and 
one  half  of  vegetable  mold,  from  the  woods  or  from  a  chip- 
yard.  Break  up  the  manure  fine,  and  sifl  it  through  a  lime- 
screen,  (or  coarse  wire  sieve.)  These  materials  must  be 
thoroughly  mixed.  When  the  common  soil  which  is  used  is 
adhesive,  and  indeed  in  most  other  cases,  it  is  necessary  to 
add  sand,  the  proportion  of  which  must  depend  on  the  na- 
ture of  the  soil. 

To  prepare  a  JBot-JBedy  dig  a  pit  six  feet  long,  five  feet 
wide,  and  thirty  inches  de^p.  Make  a  frame  of  the  same 
size,  with  the  back  two  feet  high,  the  front  fifteen  inches,  and 
the  sides  sloped  from  the  back  to  the  front  Make  two 
sashes,  each  three  feet  by  five,  with  the  panes  of  glass  lap- 
ping like  shingles  instead  of  having  cross-bars.  Set  the 
frame  over  the  pit,  which  should  then  be  filled,  with  fresh 
horse-dung,  which  has  not  lain  long  nor  been  sodden  by  wa- 
ter. Tread  it  down  hard;  then  put  into  the  frame  light  and 
very  rich  soil,  six  or  eight  inches  deep,  and  cover  it  with  the 
sashes  for  two  or  three  days.  Then  stir  the  soil,  and  sow 
the  seeds  in  shallow  drills,  placing  sticks  by  them,  to  mark 
the  different  kinds.  Keep  the  frame  covered  with  the  glass 
whenever  it  is  cold  enough  to  chillthe  plants;  but  at  all 


(850       THE  nOnSBKE£?£R  AND  HEALTHKEEPXB. 

Other  times  admit  fresh  air,  which  is  indispensable  to  their 
health.  When  the  sun  is  quite  warm,  raise  the  glasses 
enough  to  admit  air,  and  cover  them  with  matting  or  blank- 
ets, or  else  the  sun  may  kill  the  young  plants.  Water  the 
bed  at  evening  with  water  which  has  stood  all  day,  or,  if  it 
be  fresh  drawn,  add  a  little  warm  water.  If  there  be  too 
much  heat  in  the  bed,  so  as  to  scorch  or  wither  the  plants, 
lift  the  sashes,  water  freely,  shade  by  day ;  make  deep  holes 
with  stakes,  and  fill  them  up  when  the  heat  is  reduced.  In 
very  cold  nights,  cover  the  sashes  and  frame  with  straw-mats. 

For  JPtarUing  Flower  Seeds, — Break  up*  the  soil  till  it  is 
very  soft,  and  free  from  lumps.  Rub  that  nearest  the  sur- 
face between  the  hands,  to  make  it  fine.  Make  a  circular 
drill  a  foot  in  diameter.  Seeds  are  to  be  planted  either 
deeper  or  nearer  the  surface,  according  to  their  size.  For 
seeds  as  large  as  sweet  peas,  the  drill  should  be  half  an  inch 
deep.  The  smallest  seeds  must  be  planted  very  near  the 
surface,  and  a  very  little  fine  earth  be  sifted  over  them.  Af- 
ter covering  them  with  soil,  beat  them  down  with  a  trowel, 
so  as  to  make  the  eailh.  as  compact  as  it  is  after  a  heavy 
shower.  Set  up  a  stick  in  the  middle  of  the  circle,  with  the 
name  of  the  plant  heavily  written  upon  it  with  a  dark  lead- 
pencil  This  remains  more  permanent  if  white-lead  be  first 
rubbed  over  the  surface.  Never  plant  when  the  soil  is  very 
wet.  In  very  dry  times,  water  the  seeds  at  night.  Never  use 
very  cold  water.  When  the  seeds  are  small,  many  should 
be  planted  together,  that  they  may  assist  each  other  in 
breaking  the  soiL  When  the  plants  are  an  inch  high,  thin 
them  out,  leaving  only  one  or  two,  if  the  pl^nt  be  a  large 
one  like  the  balsam ;  five  or  six,  when  it  is  of  a  medium  size ; 
and  eighteen  or  twenty  of  the  smaller  size.  Transplanting, 
unless  the  plant  be  lifted  with  a  ball  of  earth,  retards  the 
growth  about  a  fortnight.  It  is  best  to  plant  at  two  difier- 
erent  times,  lest  the  firat  planting  should  fail,  owing  to  wet 
or  cold  weather. 

To  plant  Garden  SeedSy  make  the  beds  from  one  to  three 
yards  wide;  lay  across  them  a  board  a. foot  wide,  and  with 
a  stick  make  a  furrow  on  each  side  of  it,  one  inch  deep. 
Scatter  the  seeds  in  this  furrow,  and  cover  them.    Then  lay 


THB  CABB   0?  TABIDS  AND  OABDBN0.  ^5^1 

the  board  over  them,  and  step  on  it,  to  press  down  the  earth.. 
When  the  plants  are  an  inch  high,  thin  them  out,  leaving 
spjEkces  proportioned  to  their  sizes.  Seeds  of  similar  species, 
snch  as  melons  and  squashes,  should  not  be  planted  very 
near  to  each  other,  as  this  Causes  them  to  degenerate.  The 
same  kinds  of  yegetables  should  not  be  planted  in  the  same 
place  for  two  years  in  succession.  The  longer  the  rows  are, 
the  easier  is  the  after-culture. 

Tramplanting  should  be  done  at  evening,  or,  which  is  bet- 
ter, just  before  a  shower.  Take  a  round  stick  sharpened  at 
the  point,  and  make  openings  to  receive  the  plants.  Set 
them  a  very  little  deeper  than  they  were  before,  and  press 
the  soil  firmly  round  them.  Then  water  them,  and  cover 
them  for  three  or  four  days,  taking  care  that  sufficient  air  be 
admitted.  If  the  plant  can  be  removed  without  disturbing 
the  soil  around  the  root,  it  will  not  be  at  all  retarded  b^ 
transplanting.  Never  remove  leaves  and  branches,  unless  a 
part  of  the  roots  be  lost. 

To  He-pot  JECouse  Plants^  renew  the  soil  every  year,  soon 
after  the  time  of  blossoming.  Prepare  soil  as  previously  di- 
rected. Loosen  the  earth  from  the  pot  by  passing  a  knife 
around  the  sides.  Turn  the  plant  upside  down,  and  remove 
the  pot  Then  remove  all  the  matted  fibres  at  the  bottom, 
and  all  the  earth,  except  that  which  adheres  to  the  roots. 
From  woody  plants,  like  roses,  shake  off  all  the  earth.  Take 
the  new  pot,  and  put  a  piece  of  broken  earthenware  over 
the  hole  at  the  bottom,  and  then,  holding  the  plant  in  the 
proper  position,  shake  in  the  earth  around  it.  Then  pour  in 
water  to  settle  the  earth,  and  heap  on  fresh  soil  till  the  pot 
is  even  full.  Small  pots  are  considered  better  than  large 
ones,  as  the  roots  are  not  so  likely  to  rot  from  excess  of 
moisture. 

In  t/ie  Laying  otU  of  Yards  and  GardenSy  there  is  rodm 
for  much  judgment  and  taste.  In  planting  trees  in  a  yard, 
they  should  be  arranged  in  groups,  and  never  planted  in 
straight  lines,  nor  sprinkled  about  as  solitary  trees.  The  ob- 
ject of  this  arrangement  is  to  imitate  Nature,  and  secure 
some  spots  of  dense  shade  and  some  of  clear  turf  In  yards 
which  are  covered  with  turf,  beds  can  be  cut  out  of  it,  and 


852  THX  BOUSXKXSlPSB  AND  HBALTHKZSPlSB. 

raised  for  flowers.  •  A  trench  should  he  made  around,  to  pr^ 
vent  the  grass  from  running  on  them.  These  beds  can  be 
made  in  the  shape  of  crescents,  ovals,  or  other  fanciful 
forms. 

In  laying  out  beds  in  gardens  and  yards,  a  very  pretty 
bordering  can  be  made  by  planting  them  with  common 
flax-seed,  in  a  line  about  three  inches  from  the  edge.  This 
can  be  trimmed  with  shears,  when  it  grows  too  high. 

Ifbr  transplanting  Treca^  the  autumn  is  the  best  time. 
Take  as  much  of  the  root  as  possible,  especially  the  little 
flbres,  which  should  never  become  dry.  If  kept  lon^  before 
they  are  set  out,  put  wet  moss  around  them  and  water  them. 
Dig  holes  larger  than  the  extent  of  the  roots ;  let  one  per- 
son hold  the  tree  in  its  former  position,  and  another  place 
the  roots  carefully  as  they  were  before,  cutting  off  any 
broken  or  wounded  root.  JBe  careful  not  to  let  the  tree  be 
more  than  an  incK  deeper  than  it  was  before.  Let  the  soil 
be  soil  and  well  manured;  shake  the  tree  as  the  soil  is 
shaken  in,  that  it  may  mix  well  among  the  small  fibres.  Do 
not  tread  the  earth  down,  while  filling  the  hole ;  but,  when 
it  is  full,  raise  a  slight  mound  of  say  four  inches  deep  around 
the  stem  to  hold  water,  and  fill  it.  Never  cut  off  leaves  nor 
branches,  unless  some  of  the  roots  are  lost.  Tie  the  trees  to 
a  stake,  and  they  will  be  more  likely  to  live.  Water  them 
oflen. 

The  Care  of  House  Plants  is  a  matter  of  daily  attention, 
and  well  repays  all  labor  expended  upon  it.  The  soil  of 
house  plants  should  be  renewed  every  year,  as  previously 
directed.  In  winter,  they  should  be  kept  as  dry  as  they 
^an  be  without  wilting.  Many  house  plants  are  injured  by 
giving  them  too  much  water,  when  they  have  little  light 
and  fresh  air.  This  maked  them  grow  spindling.  The  more 
fresh  air,  warmXh,  and  light  they  have,  the  more  water  is 
needed.  They  ought  not  to  be  kept  very  warm  in  winter, 
nor  exposed  to  great  changes  of  atmosphere.  Forty  degrees, 
is  a  proper  temperature  for  plants  in  winter,  when  they  have 
little  sun  and  air.  When  plants  have  become  spindling,  cut 
off  their  heads.  entirely,>and  cover  the  pot  in  the  earth,  where 
it  has  the  morning  sun  only.  .  A  new  arid  flourishing  head 


THB  CABE  OF  YABDS  AND  GARDENS.         353 

will  spring  out.  Few  house  plants  can  bear  the  sun  at  noon. 
Whien  insects  infest  plants,  set  them  in.  a  closet  or  under  a 
-barrel,  and  bum  tobacco  under  them.  The  smoke  kills  any 
insect  enveloped  in  it.  When  plants  are  frozen,  cold  water 
and  a  gradual  restoration  of  warmth'  are  the  best  remedies. 
Never  use  very  cold  water  for  plants  at  any  season. 

THE  PROPAGATION   OP  PLANTS. 

This  is  an  occupation  requiring  much*  attention  and  con- 
stant care.  Bulbous  roots  are  propagated  by  offsets ;  some 
growing  on  the  top,  others  around  the  sides.  Many  plants 
are  propagated  by  cutting  off  twigs,  and  setting  them  in 
earth,  so  that  two  or  three  eyes  are  covered.  To  do  this, 
select  a  side  shoot,  ten  inches  long,  two  inches  of  it  being  of 
the  preceding  year's  growth,  and  the  rest  the  growth  of  the 
season  when  it  is  set.  Do  this  when  the  sap  is  running,  and 
put  a  piece  of  crockery  at  the  bottom  of  the  shoot  when  it 
is  buried.  One  eye,  at  least,  must  be  under  the  soil.  Water 
it,  and  shade  it  in  hot  weather. 

Plants  are  also  propagated  by  layers.  To  do  this,  take  a 
shoot  which  comes  up  near-  the  root,  bend  it  down  so  as  to 
bring  several  eyes  under  the  soil,  leaving  the  top  above- 
ground.  If  the  shoot  be  cut  half  through,  in  a  slanting  di- 
rection, at  one  of  these  eyes,  before  burying  it,  the  result  is 
more  certain.  Roses,  honeysuckles,  and  many  other  shrubs 
are  readily  propagated  thus.  They  will  generally  take  root 
by  being  simply  buried;  but  cutting  them  as  here  directed 
is  the  best  method.  Layers  are  more  certain  than  cut- 
,  tings. 

JBiuJding  and  OrafHng^  for  all  woody  plants,  are  favorite 
methods  of  propagation.  In  all  such  plants  there  is  an  onter 
and  inner  bark,  the  latter  containing  the  sap  vessels,  in  which 
the  nourishment  of  the  tree  ascends.  The  success  of  graft- 
ing or  inoculating  consists  in  so  placing  the  bud  or  grafl 
that  the  sap  vessels  of  the  inner  bark  shall  exactly  join  those 
of  the  plant  into  which  they  are  grafted,  so  that  the  sap 
may  pass  from  one  into  the  other. 

The  following  are  directions  for  budding y  which  may  be 
performed  at  any  time  from  July  to  September: 


SS4 


THK   HOUSEKBBPEft  AKD   BBALTHKBXPZBl 


71k- M, 


'  Select  a  smooth  place  od  the  atock  into  which  yon  are  to 
insert  the  bad.  Make  a  horiiontal  cnt  acroBs  the  rinil 
through  to  the  firm  wood ;  and  from  the  middle  of  this, 
make  a  slit  downward  perpendicolarlf,  an  inch  or  moro 
long,  through  to  the  «ood.  Raise  tho  bark  of  the  «tock  on 
each  side  of 
the  perpen- 
dicolar  cat, 
for  the  ad- 
mission of 
the  bud,  as 
is  shown  in 
the  annexed 
cut,  (Figcre 
64).  Then 
,  take  a  shoot 
of  this  year's 
growth,  and 
slice  from  it 
a  bad,  taking 
an  inch  be- 
low  and  an 
inch  above 
it,  and  some 

portion  of  the  wood  nnder  it.  Then  carefully  slip  off  the 
woody  part  under  the  btid.  Examine  whether  the  eye  or 
germ  of  the  bnd  be  perfect.  If  a  little  bole  appear  in  that 
part,  the  bitd  has  lost  its  i-oot,  and  another  must  be  selected. 
Insert  the  bud,  so  that  a,  of  the  bud,  shall  pasw  to  n,  of  the 
stock ;  then  b,  of  the  bnd,  must  be  ont  off,  to  match  tho  cut 
b,  in  the  stock,  and  fitted  exactly  to  it,  as  it  is  this  alone 
which  insures  succese.  Bind  the  parts  with  fresh  bass  or 
woolen  yarn,  beginning  a  little  below  the  bottom  of  the  per- 
'  pendioulsr  slit,  and  winding  it  closely  around  every  part, 
except  jnst  over  the  eye  of  the  bad,  until  you  an-ive  abovo 
the  horizontal  cut.  Do  not  bind  it  too  tightly,  but  just  suf- 
ficient to  exclude  air,  sun,  and  wet.  This  is  to  be  removed 
after  the  bnd  is  firmly  fixed  and  begins  to  grow. 
Seed-fruit,  can  be  budded  into  any  other  seed  frnit,  and 


THJft   CABE   OF  YAKDS  AND  OABDENS.' 


855 


P)S.O& 


8tOQe-fruit  intq  any  other  stope-fruit ;  bat  stone  and  seed 
fruits  can  not  be  thus  mingled. 

Rose-bashes  can  have  a  variety  of  kinds  badded  into  the 
game  stock.  Hardy  roots  are  the  best  stocks.  The  branch 
above  the  bud  mast  be  cut  off  the  next  March  or  April  af- 
ter the.  bud  is  put  in.  Apples  and  pears  are  more  easily 
propagated  by  ingrafting  than  by  budding. 
Ingrafting  is  a  similar  process  to  budding,  with  this  ad- 
vantage, that  it  can  be  performed  on  large  trees ; 
whereas  budding  can  be  applied  only  on  small 
ones.  The  two  common  kinds  of  ingrafting  are 
whip-grafting  and  split-grafting.  The  first  "kind 
is  for  young  trees,  and  the  other  for  large  ones. 
The  time  for  ingrafting  is  from  May  to  Octo- 
ber. The  cuttings  must  be  taken  from  horizon- 
tal shoots,  between  Christmas  and  March,  and 
kept  in  a  damp  cellar.  In  performing  the  oper- 
ation, cut  off  in  a  sloping  direction  (as  seen  in 
Fig.  65)  the  tree  or  limb  to  be  grafted.  ^  Then 
cut  off  in  a  corresponding  slant  the  slip  to  be 
grafted  on.  Then  put  them  together,  so  that 
the  inner  bark  of  each  shall  match  exactly  on 
one  side,  and  tie  them  firmly  together  with  yel- 
low yarn.  It  is  not  essential  that  both  be  of 
equal  size ;  if  the  bark  of  each  meet  together  ex- 
actly on  one  side,  it  answers  the  pui'pose.  But 
the  two  must  not-differ  much  in  size.  The  slope 
should  be  an  inch  and  a  half,  or  more,  in  length. 
After  they  are  tied  together,  the  place  should  be 
covered  with  a  salve  or  composition  of  bees- wax  and  rosin. 
A  mixture  of  clay  and  cow-dung  will  answer  the  same  pur- 
pose. This  last  must  be  tied  on  with  a  cloth.  Grafting  is 
more  convenient  than  budding,  as  grafts  can  be  sent  from  a 
great  distance ;  whereas  buds  must  be  taken  in  July  or  Au- 
gust, from  a  shoot  of  the  present  year's  growth,  and  can  not 
be  sent  to  any  great  distance. 

The  next  cut  (Fig.  66)  exhibits  the  mode  called  stock- 
grafting;  a  being  the  limb  of  a  large  tree,  which  is  sawed 
off  and  split,  and  is  to  be  held  open  by  a  small  wedge  tjU 


356  THB   BOTJBBXKSPBB  AIID   BKALTHKBBPBE. 

the  grafts  are  pnt  in.    A  graft  iDserted  in  the  limb  is  shown 
at  b,  and  at  e  is  one  not  inserted,  but  designed  to  be  pat  in 


71g.«. 


atd,aa  t vo  grafts  can  be  pnt  into  a  large 
^  ^t      stock.     In  inserting  the  graft,  be  careful 

I  '  I  ,1        to  make  the  edge  of  the  inner  bark  of  the 

I  I       graft  meet  exactljr  the  edge  of  the  inner 

ll  If       bark  of  the  stock ;  for  on  this  snccess  de- 

I  pends.  After  the  grafts  are  put  in,  the 
wedge  must  he  withdrawn,  and  the  whole 
of  the  stock  be  covered  with  the  thick 
salve  or  composition  befoi-e  mentioned, 
reaching  from^  where  the  grafts  are  in- 
serted to  the  bottom  of  the  slit.  Be 
careful  not  to  knock  or  move  the  grafts 
after  they  are  put  in. 

iVuninj?  is  an  operation  of  constant  ex- 
■  ercise,  for  keeping  plants  and  trees  in  good  condition.  The 
following  niles  are  from  a  diatingniahed  horticulturiet:  Prone  , 
off  all  dead  wood,  and  all  the  little  twigs  on  the  main  lim^a. 
Retrench  branches,  so  as  to  give  light  and  ventilation  to  the 
interior  of  the  tree.  Cut  out  the  straight  and  perpendicular 
shoou  which  give  little  or  no  fiuit ;  while  those  which  are 
most  nearly  horizontal, and  somewhat  curving,give  fruit  abun- 
dantly and  of  good  quality,  and  should  ho  sustained.  Su- 
perfluous and  ill-placed  buds  may  be  rubbed  00*31  anytime; 
and  no  buds  pushing  out  afler  midsummer  should  be  spared. 
In  choosing  between  shoots  to  be  retained,  preserve  the  low- 
est placed,  and  on  lateral  shoots  those  which  are  nearest  the 
origin.  When  branches  cross  each  other  so  as  to  rob,  r^ 
move  one  or  the  other.  Remove  all  suckers  from  the  roots 
of  trees  or  shrubs.  Prune  afler  the  sap  is  in  full  circnlation', 
(except  in  the  case  of  grapes,)  as  the  wounds  then  heal  best. 
Some  think  it  best  to  prune  before  the  sap  begins  to  run. 
Pruniog-shears,  and  a  pruning-pole,with  a  chisel  at  the  end, 
can  be  procured  of  those  who  deal  in  agricultural  utensils. 

TTiinninff  is  also  an  important  hut  very  delicate  operation. 
As  it  is  the  office  of  the  leaves  to  absorb  nourishment  from 
the  atmosphere,  they  should  never  be  removed,  except  to 
nature  the  wood  or  fruit,    tn  doing  this,  remove  such  leaves 


.  THB  CARE  OJ?  YARDS  AND  GARDENS.       '  857 

as  shade  the  fruit,  as  soon  as  it  is  ready  to  ripen.  To  do  it 
earlier  impairs  the  growth.  Do  it  gradually  at  two  diflTer- 
ent  times.  Thinning  the  fruit  is  important,  as  tending  to  in- 
crease its  size  and  flavor,  and  also  to  promote  the  longevity 
of  the  tree.  If  the  fruit  be  thickly  set,  take  off  one  half  at 
the  time  of  setting.  Revise  in  June,  and  then  in  July,  tak- 
ing off  all  that  may  be  spared.  One  very  large  apple  to  ev- 
ery square  foot  is  a  rule  that  may  be  a  sort  of  guide  in  oth- 
er cases.  According  to  this,  two  hundred  large  apples 
would  be  allowed  to  a  tree  whose  extent  is  fifteen  feet  by 
twelve.  If  any  person  think  this  thinning  excessive,  let 
him  try  two  similar  trees,  and  thin  one  as  directed  and  leave 
the  other  unthinned.  It  will  be  found  that  the  thinned  tree 
will  produce  an  equal  weight,  and  fruit  of  much  finer  flavor. 

THE   CULTIVATION   OP  FRUIT. 

By  a  little  attention  to  this  matter,  a  lady  with  the  help 
of  her  children  can  obtain  a  rich  abundance  of  all  kinds  of 
fruit.  The  writer  has  resided  in  families  where  little  boys 
of  eight,  ten,  and  twelve  yeai-s  old  amused  themselves,  under 
the  direction  of  .their  mother,  in  planting  walnuts,  chestnuts, 
and  hazelnuts,  for  future  time ;  as  well  as  in  planting  and 
inoculating  young  fruit-trees  of  all  descriptions.  A  mother 
who  will  take  pains  to  inspire  a  love. for  such  pursuits  in  her 
children,  and  who  will  aid  and  superintend  them,  will  save 

.them  from  many  temptations,  and  at  a  trifling  expense  secure 
to  them,  and  herself  a  rich  reward  in  the  choicest  fruits.  The 
information  given  in  this  work  on  this  subject  may  be  relied 
on  as  sanctioned  by  the  most  experienced  nurserymen. 

The  soil  for  a  nurse ly  should  be  rich,  well  dug,  dressed 
with  well-decayed  manure,  free  from  wepds,  and  protected 
from  cold  winds.     Fruit-seeds  should  be  j)lanted  in  tbe  au- 

,  tumn,  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  deep,  in  ridges  four 
or  five  feet  apart,  pressing  the  earth  firmly  over  the  seeds. 
While  growing,  they  should  be  thinned  out,  leaving  the  best 
ones  a  foot  and  a  half  apart.  The  soil  should  be  kept  loose, 
soft,  and  free  from  weeds.  They  should  be  inoculated  or 
ingrafted  when  of  the  size  of  a  pipe-stem ;  and  in  a  year  af- 
ter this  may  be   transplanted  to  their  permanent  stand. 


a58  '    THB  H0U8SKSSPEB  AKD  HBAUTHKSEPXR.  ' 

Peach-trees  sometimes  bear  in  two  years  from  badding,  and 
in  fonr  yeara  from  planting  if  well  kept 

In  a  year  after  transplanting,  take  pains  to  train  the  head 
aright.  Straight  upright  branches  produce  gourmands^  or 
twigs  bearing  only  leaves.  The  side  branches,  which  are  an- 
gular or  curved,  yield  the  most  fruit.  For  this  reason,  the 
limbs  should  be  trained  in  curves,  and  perpendicular  twigs 
should  be  cut  off  if  there  be  need  of  pruning.  The  last  of 
June  is  the  time  for  this.  Grass  should  never  be  allowed 
to  grow  within  four  feet  of  a  large  tree,  and  the  soil  should 
be  kept  loose  to  admit  air  to  the  roots.  Trees  in  orchards 
should  be  twenty-five  feet  apart.  The  soil  under  the  top 
soil  has  much  to  do  with  the  health  of  the  trees.  If  it  bo 
what  is  called  hard-pan^  the  trees  will  deteriorate.  Trees 
need  to  be  manured  and  to  have  the  soil  kept  open  and  free 
from  weeds. 

Filberts  can  be  raised  in  any  part  of  this  country. 

Figs  can  be  raised  in  the  Middle,  Western,  and  Southern 
States.  For  this  purpose,  in  the  autumn  loosen  the  roots  on 
one  side, and  bend  the  tree  down  to  the  earth  on  the  other; 
then  cover  it  with  a  mound  of  straw,  earth,  and  boards,  and 
early  in  the  spring  raise  it  up  and  cover  the  roots. 

CurrarUs  grow  well  in- any  but  a  wet  soil.  They  arc 
propagated  by  cuttings.  The  old  wood  should  be  thinned 
in  the  fall  and  manure  be  put  on.  They  can  be  trained  into 
small  trees. 

Qooseberries  are  propagatedby  layers  and  cuttings.  They 
are  best  when  kept  from  suckers  and  trained  like  trees.  One- 
third  of  the  old  wood  should  be  removed  every  autumn. 

JRaspberries  do  best  when  shaded  during  a  part  of  the  day. 
They  are  propagated  by  layers,  sUps,  and  suckers.  There  is 
one  kind  which  bears  monthly ;  but  the  varieties  of  this  and 
all  other  fruits  are  now  so  numerous  that  we  can  easily  find 
those  which  are  adapted  to  the  special  circumstances  of  the 
case. 

J^awberries  require  a  light  soil  and  vegetable  manure. 
They  should  be  transplanted  in  April  or  September,  and  be 
set  eight  inches  apart,  in  rows  nine  inches  asunder,  and  in 
beds  which  are  two  feet  wide,  with  narrow  alleys  between 


THX   CAItS   OF  YABDS  AND  OABDSNS.  859 

them.  A  part  of  these  plants  are  non-bearers.  These  have 
large  flowers  with  showy  stamens  and  high  black  anthei*s. 
The  bearers  have  short  stamens,  a  gi*eat  number  of  pistils, 
and  the  flowers  are  every  way  less  showy.  In  blossom-time, 
pull  out  all  the  non^bearers.  Some  think  it  best  to  leave 
one  non-bearer  to  every  twelve  bearers,  and  others  pall  them 
all  oat.  Many  beds  never  prodace  any  fruit,  because  all  the 
plants  in  them  are  non-bearei*s.  Weeds  should  be  kept  from 
the  vines.  When  the  vines  are  matted  with  young  plants, 
the  best  way  is  to  dig  over  the  beds  in  cross  lines,  so  as  to 
leave  some  of  the  plants  standing  in  little  squares,  while  the 
rest  are  turaed  under  the  soil  This  should  be  done  over 
a  second  time  in  the  same  year. 

To  raise  Grapes,  manure  the  soil,  and  keep  it  sofl  and  free 
from  weeds.  A  gravelly  or  sandy  soil  and  a  south  expos- 
ure are  best.  Titmsplant  the  vines  in  the  early  spring,  or 
better  in  the  fall.  Prune  them  the  first  year,  so  as  to  have 
only  two  main  branches,  taking  off  all  other  shoots  as  fast 
as  they  come.  In  November,  cut  off  all  of  these  two 
branches  except  four  eyes.  The  second  year,  in  the  spring, 
loosen  the  earth  around  the  roots, and  allow  only  two  branch- 
es to  grow,  and  every  month  take  off  all  side  shoots.  When 
they  are  very  strong,  preserve  only  a  part,  and  cut  off  the 
rest  in  the  fall.  In  November,  cut  off  all  the  two  main 
stems  except  eight  eyes.  After  the  second  year,  no  more 
pruning  is  needed,  except  to  reduce  the  side  shoots,  for  the 
purpose  of  increasing  the  fruit.  All  the  pruning  of  grapes 
(except  nipping  side  shoots)  must  be  done  when  the  sap  is 
not  running,  or  they  will  bleed  to  death:  Train  them  on 
poles,  or  lattices,  to  expose  them  to  the  air  and  sun.  Cover 
tender  vines  in  the  autumn.  Grapes  are  propagated  by  cut- 
tings, layers,  and  seeds.  For  cuttings,  select  in  the  aututnn 
well-ripened' wood  of  the  former  year,  and  take  five  joints 
for  each.  Bury  them  till  April ;  then  soak  them  for  some 
hours,  and  set  them  out  aslant,  so  that  all  the  eyes  but  one 
shall  be  covered. 

Apples,  grapes,  and  such  like  fruit  can  be  preserved  in 
their  natural  state  by  packing  them  when  dry  and  solid  in 
dry  sand  or  sawdust,  putting  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and 


800  THB   H0U8BKBSPBR  AKD  BBALTHKXSPJKB. 

cotton,  tawdutt  or  tand.  Some  sawdust  gives  a  bad  flavor 
to  the  fl*uit, 

Mo<hi  iff  pr^HTvififf  IhiU-Trees. — Heaps  of  ashes  or  tan- 
ner's bark  around  peach-trees  prevent  the  attack  of  the 
worm.  The  yMowe  is  a  disease  of  peach-trees,  which  is 
spread  by  the  pollen  of  the  blossom.  When  a  tree  begins 
to  turn  yellow,  take  it  away  with  all  iu  roots,  before  it  blos^ 
soms  again,  or  it  will  infect  other  trees.  Planting  tansy 
around  the  roots  of  fVuit-trees  is  a  sure  protection  against 
worms,  as  it  praveuts  the  moth  from  depositing  her  egg. 
Kqual  quantities  of  salt  and  saltpetre,  put  around  the  trunk 
of  a  peach-tit^,  half  a  pound  to  a  tree,  improve  the  size  and 
flavor  of  the  tVuiU  Apply  this  about  the  first  of  April;  and 
if  any  tret^  have  worms  already  in  them,  put  on  half  the 
quantity  in  addition  in  June.  To  young  trees  just  set  out, 
apply  one  ounce  in  April,  and  another  in  June,  cloee  to  the 
ftt<^m«     Sandy  soil  is  b««t  for  peaches. 

Apf>ltwtrees  are  preserved  from  insects  by  a  wash  of 
slnMi$t  ly^  to  the  body  and  limbs,  which,  if  old,  should  be 
first  scrape\i  Caterpillars  should  be  removed  by  cuttii^ 
down  their  n««ts  in  a  damp  day.  Boring  a  hole  in  a  tree 
inl^lth)  with  wornis^  and  filling  it  with  sulphnr,  will  often 
drivi^  iKew  off  immediately. 

Tlie  ^li^'y^M^iAl  or  AntlMrv  in  peoo^rees  can  be  stopped  by 
<^lli«^  oiT  all  the  blighted  branches.  It  is  snpposed  by 
MMMe  to  be  owing  to  an  ext^(«s  of  sap,  which  b  raaedied  bj 
^\m%mtmm^  the  kx>I;s. 

TW  v%i9^*%^  wkidi  des^ircirs  plmms  and  otbo-  stoae-finut^ 
<«Mi  W  rlHKi^^d  Ottly  by  gaiberii^  «p  all  tbe  frwt  tKai 
6dK  (wkWli  <\Mslani$  tbeir  e$:gSs>  and  desuoyi^  it.  TW 
v^mfcy-^f^^rwi  <tMi  be  <)M<!k«d  br  apphiag  a  baadi^  arocad 
ilie  KnIt  \>f  ilie  ireiN  a»d  erery  erf  lag  yimiw^  ii  wiik 
6^e)itar. 


SEWING)  CUTTINGy  AND  JTEnNG*  S61' 


CHAPTER  XXm. 

SOWING,  CUTTING,  AND  PTmNG. 

Thb  castoms  of  the  Americaq  people  are  mote  conformed 
to  those  principles  of  the  Christian  family  state  which  de- 
mand protecting  care  for  the  weaker  members,  than  those 
of  any  other  nation.  Nowhere  is  this  ^fact  more  apparent 
than  in  the  division  of  labor  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  one 
fiimily.  The  ontdoor  work,  all  that  is  most  disagreeable,' 
and  the  heaviest  labor,  is  taken  by  the  boys,  while  the  in- 
door family-work  is  reserved  for  the  girls.  Of  this  indoor 
hibor  a  part  is  sedentary,  such  as  sewing,  and  a  part  is  light 
labor,  such  as  dish- washing,  cooking,  sweeping,  dusting,  and 
general  care  of  the  house.  The  laundry  gives  the  hardest 
woman's  work ;  but  this  is  not  daily,  nor  so  severe  as  the 
outdoor  employments  of  men,  while  it  can  be  so  divided 
among  several  women,  or  be  s6  regulated  in  various  ways, 
as  never  to  involve  excessive  labor.  Toung  women  wash 
and  iron,  as  a  daily  business,  six  and  eight  hours  a  day,  and 
yet  continue  healthful  and  cheerful.  Such  is  the  distinctive 
construction  of  woman's  form,  that  labor  with  the  muscles 
of  the  arms  and  trunk,  such  as  is  demanded  in  washing  and 
ironing,  is  peculiarly  favorable  to  the  perfect  development 
and  support  of  the  most  delicate  and  most  important  por- 
tion of  her  body*  •  ^ 

But  while  the  general  arrangements  of  family  labor  have 
been  conformed  to  the  true  Christian  principle,  there  have 
been  certain  extremes  in  our  customs  which  it  is  important 
to  remedy.  This  is  often  exhibited  in  houses  when  the 
members  of  a  family  assemble  in  an  evening,  and  the  girls 
all  have  some  useful  employment  of  the  hands,  while  the 
boys  look  on  and  do  nothing. 

Again,  at  other  times,  we  see  broken  locks,  windows  un- 
glazed,  and  furniture  needing  repair,  all  making  necessary  a 
kind  of  work  women  could  easily  perform,  aofd  yet  left  neg- 

16 


362  THE   ^OUSJCKXBPEIt  AND  HKALTHKBXPER. 

lected  because  the  men  do  not  find  time  or  are  nntkilled  for 
the  performance.  In  a  conntry  tike  onrs,  the  emergencies 
of  the  family  state  often  demand  the  exchange  of  the  ordi- 
nary labor  of  men  and  women.  Frequently,  in  newer  settle- 
ments, no  servants  can  be  found,  while  the  wife  and  mother 
is  confined  by  sickness.  In  such  emergencies,  skill  in  per- 
forming woman's  work  is  a  great  blessing  to  a  man  and  his 
family.  So  the  soldiers,  sailors,  engineers,  and  all  roving 
men  need  the  skill  of  the  needle  that  preserves  clothing 
from  waste.  In  our  late  war,  millions  would  have  been 
saved  had  all  the  soldiers  been  taught  to  sew  in  their  boy- 
hood. 

In  this  view  of  the  case,  industrial  schools,  to  teach  both 
boys  and  girls  all  the  economic  skill  of  the  family  state,  are 
of  great  importance,  and  a  department  for  this  purpose  should 
,  be  connected  with  every  school,  especially  the  public  schools, 
where  most  of  the  children  will  earn  their  own  livelihood 
and  be  exposed  to  many  chances  of  a  roving  life.  .    • 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  introduce  sewing  into  pub- 
lic schools,  and  usually  with  little  or  no  success,  from  many 
combining  difficulties.  One  of  them  arises  from  the  in- 
creased number  of  classes  for  this  purpose;  which  would  be 
relieved  by  having  boys  taught  to  sew  in  the  same  class 
,  with  girls.  Another  difficulty  has  been  the  providing  of 
materials  for  sewing  and  the  previous  cutting  and  fitting 
needed,  whicb  the  parents  refuse  to  supply.  A  method 
which  meets  these  and  othec  difficulties,  and  which  has  been 
successfully  tried  in  industrial  schools  in  England,  will  now 
be  described. 

Let  a  fund  be  provided  by  school  officers,  or  by  contribu- 
tion, to  provide  needles,  thread,  scissors,  and  thimbles  of 
various  sizes,  and  place  them  in  the  care  of  the  teacher. 
Let  two  half-days  of  the  week  be  devoted  to  this. and  other 
industrial  employments,  giving,  as  a  reward  for  success  in 
rarefhl,  neat,  and  quick  accomplishment  of  the  duties^  the 
time  lefl  beyond  that  used  in  the  task  as  holiday  hours. 

Let  the  first  lesson  be  the  use  of  scissors,  in  cutting 
straight  slip3. of  newspaper,  thus  training  the  eye  and  fingers 
to  expert  .measurem.ent  and  motion.    Whoever  excels  in 


8BWINO)  CUTTING,  AND  FITTINO.  863 

the  performance  of  the  allotted  task  in  less  than  the  allotted 
time  is  to  be  rewarded  with  the  time,  thus  gained,  for  play. 

Next,  let  the  class  cut  broad  strips  of  paper,  and  practice 
doubling  them  in  a  hem^  first  narrow  and  then  broad.  This 
also  caltivates  the  eyes  and  trains  the  fingers. 

Then  give  a  lesson  to  teach  the  use  of  the  thimble,  using 
a  needle  without  thread,  and  paper  slips  to  set  the  needle 
through. 

Let  the  class  now  have  pieces  of  cheap  and  thin  un- 
bleached cotton,  and  cut  off  from  it  strips  two  inches  wide, 
being  directed  to  cut  by  a  thread.  At  first  a  thread  may  be 
drawn  to  guide  the  eye.  Then,  these  strips  are  to  be  cut 
into  pieces  five  or  eix  inches  long,  turned  dovon  and  pinched 
to  prepare  for  oversewing,  and  then  put  together  and  basted 
with  a  needle  and  thread,  the  teacher  setting  the  example. 

This  last  operation  is  intended  to  prepare  two  strips  to, 
be  sewed  together  by  oversewing.    In  this  operation  cdored 
thread  should  be  used  in  order  to  make  the  stitches  show 
more  distinctly.     Meantime,  the  pupil  is  trained  to  make 
the  stitche?  equal  in  depths  and  also  at  equal  distances. 

The  teacher  is  to  be  provided  with  a  blank  book  for  each 
pupil,  and  on  the  first  page  is  to  be.  inscribed,  Oversemrig. 
Beneath  this  word  is  to  be  fastened  a  specimen  of  the  stitch, 
as  soon  as  the  pupil  has  attained  the  degree  of  excellence 
and  accuracy  required. 

The  next  lesson  \s  Hiemming.  To  prepare  for  this,  let 
the  scholars  first  cut,  out  of  newspaper,  pieces  three  inches 
square,  and  fold  a  hem  on  each  side  till  it  is  even  and 
smooth. 

Then  the  unbleached  cotton  is  to  be  given  to  be  cut  and 
prepared  in  the  same  way.  Finally,  the  hemming-stitch  is 
to  be  taught,  and  the  child  be  required  to  practice  till  the 
stitches  are  equal  in  size  and  regular  in  both  slant  and  dis- 
tances. When  this  is  well  executed,  the  specimen  is  to  be 
fastened  to  another  page  of  the  child's  book,  under  the  word  • 
Hemming.  In  the  same  way,  the  various  stitches  used  for 
running  up  seams,  for  felling,  darping,  whipping,  button- 
holing, stitching,  and  gathering,  should  be  taught  on  small 
pieces  of  white  or  unbleached  cotton,  using  colored  thread. 


964      TUS  POUSEKXEPBB  AND  UXALTHKSBPEB. 

The  books  in  which  are  fastened  the  finished  specimens  of 
sewing  should  be  preserved  by  the  teacher  and  exhibited  at 
the  school  examinations,  as  an  encouragement  to  excellence. 
In  England,  the  ladies  of  wealth  and  rank  take  pains  to  es- 
tablish and  superintend,  among  the  poor,  industrial  schools 
in  which  are  taught  other  domestic  work  as  well  as  sewing ; 
and,  as  the  consequence,  their  servants  and  dependents  are 
well  trained  for  the  duties  of  their  station.  It  is  hoped  that 
American  ladies  will  make  similar  efforts  for  the  children  of 
the  poorer  classes,  and  employ  all  their  influence  to  promote 
industrial  training  in  our  common  schools ;  and  also,  to  see 
that  instruction  in  these  important  matters  be  given  to  their 
own  daughters,  who  may  become  mistresses  and  directors  of 
future  homes,  or  who,  in  the  constantly  changing  fortunes  of 
our  land,  may  need  to  perform  as  well  as  to  guide  the  doing 
of  these  homely  duties. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  sewing-machiDes  lessen 
the  importance  of  hand-sewing.  All  the  mending  for  a  fam- 
ily, and  much  of  the  altering  of  clothing  and  house  furniture, 
must  be  done  only  by  the  hand.  In  all  poor  families  that 
own  no  machine,  and  in  all  cases  where  peraons  travel,  the 
whole  sewing  needed  must  be  done  by  hand. 

It  is  especially  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  who  can  not 
have  machines,  that  all  the  children  of  our  common  schools 
should  be  taught  not  only  to  sew,  but  to  mend  and  to  cut 
land  fit  common  garments.  Hard-working  mothers  can  not 
teach  this  art,  and  the  school-teacher  is  the  proper  person  to 
do  it.  Nor  should  this  be  added  to  the  ordinary  severe  and 
wearing  labor  of  a  teacher,  but  other  less  important  branches 
should  give  place  to  this.  It  is  the  constant  complaint  of 
all  who  are  seeking  to  help  the  destitute,  that  women  are 
not  trained  properly  to  do  any  kind  of  domestic  work,  and 
"there  is  no  way  in  which  philanthropy  can  be  more  wise- 
ly exerted  than  in  urging  the  establishment  of  industrial 
schools. 

It  is  the  hope  of  the  writer  that  a  day  is  coming  when  cUl 
women  will  be  made  truly  independent,  by  being  trained  in 
early  life  to  employments  by  which  they  can  secure  a  home 
and  income  for  themse],ves,  if  they  do  not  marry  or  if  they. 


BXWINOy  CUTTING,  AKD  FTTTING.  '       865 

become  widows.    This  is  what  is  done  for  daughters  in  Eu- 
ropean countries,  and  should  be  done  in  our  own. 

Institutions  for  training  women  to  employments  suitable 
for  their  sex  should  be  established  and  endowedj  the  same  as 
agricultural  and  other  professional  schools  for  men.'  When 
this  is  done,  there  will  be  vl  liberal  prof  ession  for  women  of 
culture  and  refinement,  securing  to  widows  and  unmarried 
women  such  advantages  as  have  hitherto  been  enjoyed  only 
by  the  more  favored  sex. 


366  THE  HOUSSKSXPSB  AND  HEALTHKi^EPSB. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

ACCIDENTS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 

Childben  should  be  taught  the  followiug  modes  of  saving 
life,  health,  and  limbs  in  cases  of  sudden  emergency,  before  a 
medical  adviser  can  be  summoned.  - 

In  case  of  a  common  cut,  bind  the  lips  of  the  wound  to- ' 
gether  with  a  rag,  and  put  on  nothing  else.    If  it  is  large, 
lay  narrow  strips  of  sticking-plaster  obliquely  across  the  ' 
wound.    In  some  cases  it  is  needful  to  draw  a  needle  and 
thread  through  the  lips  of  the  wound,  and  tie  the  two  sides 
together. 

If  an  artery  be  cut,  it  must  be  tied  as  quickly  as  pgssible, 
or  the  person  will  soon  bleed  to  death.  The  blood  frpm  an 
'  artery  is  a  brighter  red  than  that  from  the  veins,  and  spirts 
out  in  jets  at  each  beat  of  the  heart.  Take  hold  of  the  end 
of  the  artery  and  tie  it  or  hold  it  tight  till  a  surgeon  comes. 
In  this  case,  and  in  all  cases  of  bad  wounds  that  bleed  much, 
tie  a  tight  bandage  near  and  above  the  wound,  inserting  a 
stick  anto  the  bandage  and  twisting  as  tight  as  can  be  borne, 
to  stop  the  immediate  effusion  of  blood. 

Bathe  bad  bruises  in  hot  water.  Arnica-water  hastens  a 
cure,  but  is  injurious  and  weakening  to  the  parts  when  used 
too  long  and  too  freely. 

A  sprain  is  relieved  from  the  first  pains  by  hot  fomenta- 
tions, or  the  application  of  very  hot  bandages,  but  entire 
.  rest  is  the  chief  permanent  remedy.  The  more  the  limb  is 
usedj  especially  at  first,  the  longer  the  time  required  for  the 
small  broken  fibres  to  knit  together.  The  sprained  leg 
should  be  kept  in  a  horizontal  position.  When  a  leg  is 
broken,  tie  it  to  the  other  leg,  to  keep  it  still  till  a  surgeon 
comes.  Tie  a  broken  arm  to  a  piece  of  thin  wood,  to  keep 
it  still  till  set. 

In  the  case  of  b<ad  burns  that  take, off  the  skin,  creosote- 
^ater  is  the  best  remedy.    If  this  is  not  at  hand,  wood-soot 


ACCIDENTS   AND  ANTlbOTBS*  867 

(not  coal,)  ponnded,  sifted,  and  mixed  with  lard,  is  nearly  as 
good,  as  sach  soot'  contains  creosote.  When  a  dressing  is 
pat  on,  do  not  remove  it  till  a  skin  is  formed  nnder  it.  If 
nothing  else  is  at  hand  for  a  bad  bam,  sprinkle  flonr  over 
the  place  where  the  skin  is  off,  and  then  let  it  remain,  pro- 
tected by  a  bandage.  The  chief  aim  is  to  keep  the  part 
without  skin  from  the  air. 

In  case  of  drowning,  the  aim  should  be  to  clear  the  throat, 
month,  and  nostrils,  and  then  produce  the  natural  action  of 
the  lungs  in  breathing  as  soon  as  possible,  at  the  same  time 
I'emoving  wet  clothes  and  applying  warmth  and  friction  to 
the  skin,  especially  the  hands  and  feet,  to  start  the  circula- 
tion, llie  best  mode  of  cleansing  the  throat  and  mouth  of 
choking  water  is  to  lay  the  person  on  the  face,  and  raise  the 
head  a  little,  cleanng  the  mouth  and  nostrils  with  the  finger, 
and  then  apply  hartshoi*n  or  camphor  to  the  nose.  This  is 
safer  and  surer  than  a  common  mode  of  lifting  the  body  by 
the  feet,  or  rolling  on  a  barrel  to  empty  out  the  water. 

To  start  the  action  of  the  lungs,  first  lay  the  person  on 
the  face  and  press  the  bitck  along  the  spine  to  expel  all  air 
from  the  lungs.  Then  turn  the  body  nearly,  but  not  quite 
over  on  to  the  back,  thus  opening  the  chest  so  that  the  air 
will  rush  in  if  the  motith  is  kept  open.  Then  turn  the  body 
to  the  face  again  and  expel  the  air,tind  then  again  nearly 
over  on  to  the  back ;  and  so  continue  for  a  long  time.  Fric- 
tion, dry  and  warm  clothing,  and  warm  applications,  should 
be  used  in  connection  with  this  process.  This  is  a  much  bet- 
ter mode  than  using  bellows,  which  sometimes  will  close  the 
opening  to  the  windpipe.  The  above  is  the  mode  recom- 
mended by  Dr.  Marshall  Hall,  and  is  approved  by  the  best 
medical  authorities. 

Certain  articles  are  often  kept  in  the  house  for  cooking  or 
medical  pu]*poses,  and  sometimes  by  mistake  ai*e  taken  in 
quantities  that  are  poisonous. 

8odaj  SaleratuSyPotashy  or  any  other  alkali,  can  be  render- 
ed harmless  in  the  stomach  by  vinegar,  tomato-juice,  or  any 
other  acid.  If  sulphuric  or  oxalic  acid  are  taken,  pounded 
chalk  in  water  is  the  best  antidote.  If  those  are  not  at 
hand,  strong  soap-suds  have  been  found  effective.    Large 


868      THE  HOUSSKSKPEB  AND  HSALTHKESFEB. 

qnantities  of  tepid  water  Bhoald  be  drank  after  these  anti- 
dotes are  taken,  so  as  to  produce  vomiting. 

lAme  or  baryta  and  its  componnds  demand  a  solution  of 
glanber  salts  or  of  sulpharic  acid. 

Iodine  or  Iodide  of  PotasHum  demands  large  drengbts 
of  wheat  flonr  or  starch  in  water,  and  then  vinegar  and  wa- 
ter. The  stomach  shoald  then  be  emptied  by  vomiting 
with  as  much  tepid  water  as  the  stomach  can  hold. 

JPnissic  Addj  a  violent  poison,  is  sometimes  taken  by  chil- 
dren in  eating  the  pits  of  stone-fruits  or  bitter  almonds 
which  contain  it.  The  antidote  is  to  empty  the  stomach  by 
an  emetic,  and  give  water  of  ammonia  or  chloric  water.  Af- 
fusions of  cold  water  all  over  the  body,  followed  by  warm 
hand  friction,  is  often  a  remedy  alone,  but  the  above  should  be 
added  if  at  command.  Antimony  and  its  compounds  demand 
drinks  of  oak  bark,  or  gall-nuts,  or  very  strong  green  tea. 

Arsenic  demands  oil  or  melted  fat,  with  magnesia  or  lime 
water  in  large  quantities,  till  vomiting  occurs. 

Corrosive  SuNimcUej  (often  used  to  kill  vermin,)  and  any 
other  form  of  mercury,  requires  milk  or  whites  of  eggs  in 
large  quantities.  The  whites  of  twelve  eggs  in  two,  quarts 
of  water,  given  in  the  largest  possible  draughts  every  three 
minutes  till  free  vomiting  occurs,  is  a  good  remedy.  Flour 
and  water  will  answer,  though  not  so  surely  as  the  above. 
Warm  water  will  help,  if  nothing  else  is  in  reach.  The 
same  remedy  answers  when  any  form  of  copper,  or  tin,  or 
zinc  poison  is  taken,  and  also  for  creosote. 

lead  and  its  compounds  require  a  dilution  of  Epsom  or 
Glauber  salts,  or  some  strong  acid  drink,  as  lemon  or  toma- 
toes. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  demands  salt  water  drank  till  vomiting 
occurs. 

Phosphorus  (sometimes  taken  by  children  from  matches) 
needs  magnesia  and  copious  drinks  of  gum  Arabic,  or  gum- 
water  of  any  sort. 

Aleoholy\n  dangerous  quantities, demands  vomiting  with 
warm  water. 

When  one  is  violently  sick  from  excessive  use  of  tob(ZccOj 
vomiting,  is  a  relief,  if  it  arise  spontaneously.    After  that, 


ACCIDENTS  AND  ANTIDOTES.  869 

or  in  case  it  docs  not  occur,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  perfect 
rest,  in  a  horizonal  position  on  the  back,  will  relieve  the  nau- 
sea and  faintness,  generally  soothing  the  foolish  and  over- 
wrought patient  into  a  sleep. 

Opium  demands  a'  quick  emetic.  The  best  is  a  heaping 
table-spoonful  of  powdered  mustard,  in  a  tumblerful  of 
warm  water;  or  powdered  alum  in  half-ounce  dosed  and 
strong  coffee  alternately  in  warm  water.  Give  JEU^id  drinks 
afler  vomiting.  If  vomiting  is  not  elicited  thus,  a  stomach- 
pump  is  diemanded.  Dash  cold  water  on  the  head,  apply  fric- 
tion, and  use  all  means  to  keep  the  person  awake  and  in  motion. 

Strychnia  deniands  also  quick  emetics.    . 

The  stomach  should  be  emptied  always  after  taking  any 
of  these  antidotes,  by  v^  warm-water  emetic. 

In  case  of  l)leeding  at  the  lungs,  or  stomach,  or  throat, 
give  a  tea-spoonful  of  dry  salt,  and  i-epeat  it  oflen.  For 
bleeding  at  the  hose,  put  ice  or  pour  cold  water  on  the  back 
of  the  neck,  keeping  the  head  elevated. 

If  a  person  be  struck  with  lightning,  throw  pailfuls  of  cold 
water  on  the  head  and  body,  and  apply  mustard  poultices 
on  the  stomach,  with  friction  of  the  whole  body  and  infla- 
tion of  the  lungs,  as  in  the  case  of  drowning.  The  same 
mode  is  to  be  used  when  persons  are  stupefied  by  fames  of 
coal  or  bad  air. 

In  thunder-storms,  shut  the  doors  and   windows.    The 
safest  part  of  a  room  is  its  centre ;  and  when  there  is  a  feath- 
er-bed in  the  apartment,  that  will  be  found  the  most  se-  * 
cure  resting-place. 

A  lightning-rod,  if  it  be  well  pointed,  and  run  deep  into 
the  earth,  is  a  certain  protection  to  a  circle  around  it  whose 
diameter  equals  the  height  of  the  rod  above  the  highest 
chimney.    But  it  protects  no  farther  than  this  extent. 

In  case  of  fire,  wrap  about  you  a  blanket,  a  shawl,  a  piece 
of  carpet,  or  any.other  woolen  cloth,  to  serve  as  protection. 
Never  read  in  bed,  lest  you  fall  asleep,  apd  the  bed  be  set 
on  fire.  If  your  clothes  get  on  fire,  never  run,  but  lie  down, 
and  roll  about  till  you  can  reach  a  bed  or  carpet  to  wrap 
yourself  in,  and  thus  put  out  the  fire.  Keep  young  children 
iir  woolen  dresses,  to  save  them  from  the  risk  of  fire. 

16* 


870  THB   HOUSSKXEPSB  AND  HBALTldKEEPSE. 


CHAPTER  XXy. 

ON  TEUB  BIGBT  USB  OF  TUTB  AND  PBOPXBTT. 

t  ■  ■  ■ 

It  is  probable  that  there  is  no  one  direction  in  which  con- 
scientious persons  suffer  so  much  doubt  and  perplexity  as  on 
the  right  apportionment  of  time  and  property.  Clear  views 
ojf  duty  on  this  subject  can  be  gained  only  by  reference  to 
certain  facts  and  principles  of.mind  in  connection  with  cer- 
tain facts  revealed  by  Jesus  Christ. 

It  is  a  fact  that  whenever  men  notice  any  method  which 
will  best  secure  any  end  aimed  at,  they  call  it  right.  And  so 
the  worAright^  as  men  ordinarily  use  the  term,  signifies  the 
method  or  rule  for  secunng  an  end  designed. 

It  is  also  a  fact  that  all  rational  minds  are  so  made  as  in- 
tuitively to  feel  or  perceive  that  the  end  for  which  all  things 
are  made  iSy  not  to  produce  enjoyment  or  happiness  of  any 
sort  or  degree,  but  to  produce  the  best  good  for  all  concerned 
both  as  to  quality  and  amount. 

In  proof  of  this,  we  find  that  when  any  plan  or  action  is 
proposed,  and  it  is  shown  that  on  one  alternative  the  best 
good  of  both  the  individual  and  society  is  secured,  all  ra- 
tional minds  decide  that  it  is  wise  and  right,  and  that  the 
opposite  alteiiiative  is  foolish  and  wrong.  'IHiere  are  endless 
diversities  of  opinion  as  to  what  is  for  the  best  good  of  indi- 
viduals and  society;  but  all  agree  that  whatever  is  for  the 
best  good  of  all  concerned  is  right.  We  therefore  assume 
that  it  is  an  intuitive  principle  or  belief  in  all  rational  minds, 
that  happiness-inctking  on  the  best  and  largest  scale  is  the  end 
or  purpose  for  which  all  things  are  made. 

We  also  find  ourselves  placed  in  a  system  of  physical,  in- 
tellectual, and  social  laws,  by  obedience  to  which  happiness 
is  gained,  and  that  by  disobedience  to  them  happiness  is  de- 
stroyed. At  the  same  time,  the  controlling  principle  of  every 
mind  is  to  gain  happiness  and  escape  pain  or  loss  of  happi- 
ness.   This  being  so,  we  may  assume  that  to  gain  the  end 


THE  BIGHT  USB   OF  TUIS  AND  FBOPBBTT.  371 

for  which  we  are  made,  or,  in  other  words,  to  act  righty  we 
must  obey  these  laws. 

Again,  we  find  every  rational  mind  so  made  that  it  may 
be  controlled  by  some  leading  desire  of  ruling  purpose  to 
which  all  other  desires  and  purposes  are  subordinate,  add 
th^t  it  is  the  nature  of  this  ruling  purpose  which  constitutes 
moral  character.  By  moral  character  is  meant  that  which 
results  from  our  own  choice  instead  of  that  which  consists  in 
qualities  and  propensities  <;reated  by  God.  This  ruling  pur- 
pose that  controls  the  mind  sometimes,  by  a  figure  of  speech 
is  called  the  hearty  which  literally  is  the  organ  that  controls 
the  body. 

Again,  we  find  that  in  all  ages  and  nations  there  are  some 
men  whose. ruling  purpose  and  chief  desire  is  to  do  right, 
and. that  these  persons  are  called  the  righteous  or  the  virtu- 
ous men. 

Again,  we  find  that  all  decisions  as  to  what  is  best  and 
right  are  regulated  hj  the  dangers  involved.  If  one  course, 
with  equal  advantages,  is  free  from  danger,  and  the  opposite 
involves  danger,  all  men  decide  the  former  to  be  the  right  one. 
Thus,  all  questipns  of  duty  as  to  any  course  of  action  are 
regulated  by  the  dangers  which  threaten  ourselves  or  society. 
As  an  illustration  of  this  fact,  when  the  life  of  our  nation 
was  imperiled,  privations,  risks,  and  even  death,  were  some- 
times a  duty,  when  in  timeis  of  p^ace  and  prosperity  such 
sacrifices  would  not  be  right  but  highly  sinful. 

The  general  principle  thus  illustrated  is,  that  the  standard 
of  right  and  wi*ong  in  all  practical  affairs  is  regulated  by 
the  amount  of  danger  to  be  met  in  alternate  courses,  one 
of  which  must  be  chosen.  And  thus  it  appears  that  every 
question  of  rectitude  and  duty  is  modified  by  circumstances ; 
so  that  what  would  be  a  sin  in  one  case  would  be  a  solemn 
duty  iu  another. 

Again,  we  find  that  the  character  of  a  righteous  man  is 
dependent  on  experience  and  -instruction.  For  a  child  is 
bom  in  utter  ignorance  of  Grod^s  laws,  and  of  his  obligation 
to  obey  them ;  and  it  is  only  by  the  slow  and  gradual  proc- 
ess of  eicperience  and  training  that  he  gains  this  knowledge. 
Still  more  is  he  dependent  on  educators  for  motives  to  excite 


372  THIS  HOUaEKSEPBB  AND  HXM.THKSEPSB. 

to  obedienoeu  ^e  great  want  of  humanity  is  right  instruc- 
tion as  to  the  laws  by  which  the  best  good  of  all  is  secured, 
and  powerful  motives  to  induce  obedience  to  these  laws. 

We  are  now  prepared  to  notice  the  connection  of  these 
plinqiplea  and  facts  with  the  facts  revealed  by  Jesus  Christ. 
The  great  and  central  fact  thus  made  known  is,  that  this  life 
is  only  the.beginning  of  an  eternal  existence,.involving  liabil- 
ity to  dreadful  dangers  after  death,  and  that,  in  estimating 
what  is  right  and  wise  in  character  and  conduct,  we  are  to 
tikke  into  account  these  dangers,  as  regulating  all  questions 
of  duty  to  ourselves  and  to  our  fellow-men.  Of  the  nature 
of  these  dangers,  we  are  informed  that  those  who  become 
righteous  in  this  life  will  secure  perpetuity  of  that  character, 
and  thus  pejfect  and  endless  happiness ;  but  that  some  will 
so  fail  that  they  never  will  attain  this  character,  either  in 
this  life  or  the  life  to  come,  and  so  will  forever  reap  the  con- 
sequences of  perpetuate  and  voluntary  selfishness .  and  sin. 
Still  more  momentous  is  the  fact,  that  the  number  who  are 
to  be  saved  depends  upon  the  self-denying  labors  of  Christ's 
followers,  and  that  so  dreadful  are  the  hazards  of  the  life  to 
come,  that  all  consideration  of  earthly  enjoyment  should  be 
made  subordinate  to  the  great  end  of  escape  for  ourselves 
and  for  our  fellow-men,  whom  we  are  to  love  and  care  for  as 
we  do  for  ourselves. 

These  facts  and  principles  enable  us  clearly  to  compre- 
hend the  great  law  of  rectitude  and  happiness  given  by  Grod 
through  Moses,  and  then  more  clearly  explained  and  illus- 
trated by  Jesus  Christ  All  men  are  conscious  of  that  tn- 
stinctive  love  which  we  share  in  cotaamon  with  the  brutes. 
This  consists  in  pleasurable  emotions  in  view  of  certain  per- 
sons or  things  which  afford  us  pleasure,  attended  by  a  desire 
to  please  those  who  cause  6uch  enjoyment  to  oui*selves,  or 
to  those  we  love.  Thus  the  mother,  whether  humaii  or 
brute,  feels-  instinctive  love  to  her  offspring;  and  thus  all 
men  feel  this  instinctive  love  to  tbose  who  confer  pleasure 
on  themselves. 

But  Jesus  Christ  expressly  discriminates,  and  explains  that 
the  great  law  of  love  (which,  he  says,  it  is  the  chief  end  of 
<<the  law  and  the  prophets"  to  inculcate)  is  the  vohmktry 


XHB  BIGHT  USX   07  TIME  AND  PBOPESTT.  S73 

love  whick  consists  in  choosing  to  do  right — that  is,  to  make 
happiness  on  the  best  and  largest  scale.  For  the  law  is, 
^'Thon  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and' 
thy  neighbor  as  thyaelf.^^  Now  self-love  consists  not  iu 
pleasurable  emotions  in  onr  own  agreeable  qualitiesj  but  in 
an  instinctive,  an  all-controlling  desire  to  make  self  happy. 

Tbis  is  the  principle  of  mind  which  gives  its  true  meaning 
to  the  great  law  of  love,  which  in  this  aspect  reads  thus: 

Thou  shalt  choose,  for.  the  chief  end  or  controlling  purr: 
pose,  to  make  happiness  on  the  greatest  scale  by  obeying 
Gk>d'B  laws,  and  as  the  way  to  make  him  and  all  bis  crea- 
tures happy  in  the  highest,  degree.  And  for  this  end  you 
are  to  regard  and  treat  the  happiness  of  all  in  your  reach  as 
equal  in  value  to  your  own. 

This  exposition  of  the  great  law  of  love  is  verified  repeat- 
edly in  the  New  Testament :  '^  This  is  the  love  of  God,  that 
ye  keep  his  commandments.^' 

'*  He  that  hath  my  commandments  and  keepeth  them,  he 
it  is  that  loveth  me." 

**If  a  man  love  me,  he  will  keep  my  words;" — ''he  tbat 
loveth  me  not,  keepeth  not  my  sayings." 

^  That  the  world  n^ay  know  that  I  love  the  Father,  as  the 
Father  gave  me  commandment,  even  so  I  do." 

We  now  are  prepared  to  appreciate  the  new  and  most 
wonderful  revelation  ever  made  to  the  human  race,  and  one 
which  the  wisest  heathen  philosophers  never  even  conjec- 
tured. 

Jesus  Christ  first  revealed  to  mankind  that  our  Creator  is 
a  loving  Father  to  the  whole  human  race ;  and  that  such  is 
the  eternal  nature  of  things,  that  our  highest  possible  happi- 
ness and  escape  from  endless  evil  can  be  accomplished  only 
by  self-denying  sacrifice  and  sufferings  to  save  ourselves  and 
others ;  and  that  our  heavenly  Father  himself  so  loves  us  as 
to  encounter  such  suffering  to  save  us.  For  whatever  views 
men  form  as  to  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  how  his  suf- 
ferings avail  to  save  from  danger  in  the  life  to  come,  all  will 
concede  that  he  teaches  that  Gk)d  is  represented  as  having 
made  such  a  painful  sacrifice  as  a  father  suffers  in  seeing  a 
dear  and  lo.vely  and  only  son  subjected  to  long  years  of  hu- 


874  THX  HOUSSKEEPER  A^O)  HSALTH&EEPXB. 

miliatioD,  of  painfal  toils,  and  to  a  disgraceful  apd  tortaring 
deatL  And  whatever  opinions  men  form  as  to  the  nature 
and  duration  of  future  retributions,  it  is  clear  that  Jesus 
Christ  teaches  that  so  great  are  our  dangers,  that  every 
consideration  of  earthly  enjoyment  should  be  subordinate, 
and  that  our  first  interest  and  aim  should  be  to  secure  es- 
cape to  ourselves  and  our  fellow-men. 

And  here  we  should  notice  that  most  comforting  doctrine 
revealed  by  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  is,  that  our  eternal  wel- 
fare does  not  depend  on  our  judging  correctly  as  to  what  is 
for  the  best  good  of  all  concerned,  both  for  this  life  and  the 
life  to  come.  On  the  contrary,  we  are  assured  that  it  is 
having  our  hearty  or  chief  desire^  set  to  do  right  by  obeying 
all  Grod^s  laws  as  fast  as  we  learn  what  they'are.  ''Sin  is 
the  transgression  of  la w,^  and  all  men  have  sinned,  and  wilt 
continue  to  sin,  sometimes  from  ignorance,  sometimes  from 
the  force  of  temptation  swaying  from  the  prevailing  desire 
and  controlling  purpose.  And  so  the  righteous  men  of  old- 
en times,  though  they  committed  heinous  sins,  were  ''  men 
after  God's  own  heart,"  because  their  "heart''  was  set  to 
obey  him  in  all  things.  And  thus  their  failures  were  par- 
doned, and  their  eternal  safety  secured. 

The  same  comfoiting  assurance  lessens  the  anxieties  of 
those  whose  chief  aim  and  desire  is  to  obey  Jesus  Christ 
under  the  new  obligations  imposed  by  him.  For  the  ^^faith^ 
which  saves  our  fellow-men  Jboth  before  and  after  Christ,  is 
not  the  mere  intellectual  conviction;  for  the  "devils  thus 
believe  and  tremble."  It  is  rather  that  faith  which  includes 
intellectual  belief  in  his  teachings,  and  the  voluntary  con- 
foi*mity  of  purpose  and  action  to  that  belief. 

So  the  "rcpen^nc«"  required  is  not  mere  sorrow  for 
wrong-doing,  but  it  consists  in  such  sorrow  as  includes 
"  ceasing  to  do  evil,  and  learning  to  do  well." 

We  now  have  the  general  principle  which  should  regulate 
all  expenditures  both  of  time  and  property.  And  whenever 
any  number  of  persons  consistently  and  practically  adopt 
this  principle,  they  will  become  "  a  peculiar  people." 

The  principle  is  this:  The  use  of  property  and  the  use  of 
time  must  be  so  regulated  as  to  accomplish  aU  in  our  power^ 


TBB  BIGHT  USE  OF  TIME  AND  PBOPSBTT.  875 

to  save  as  niany  as  possible  from  igporance  of  God's  laws, 
and  from  .'disobedience  to  them.  It  must,  in  many  cases,  be 
difficult  to  decide  as  to  the  most  successful  way  by  which 
our  time  and  property  will  avail  to  this  end.  But  that  this 
should  be  the  first  and  chief  object  in  all  our  plans,  must  bd 
conceded  by  all  who  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  only  author- 
ized teacher  of  truth  and  duty.  He  is  the  only  man  who 
has  died  and  returned  from  the  invisible  world  to  tell  us  of 
our  prospects  there,  and  his  authority  is  established  by  the 
highest  evidence  of  which  we  can  conceive.  He  is  the  only- 
being  authorized  by  God  fully  to  explain  his  laws,  both  as 
to  our  highest  happiness  while  on  earth  and  our  future  eter- 
nal welfare.  "There  is  no  other  name  (or  person)  given  un- 
der Heaven ''  to  do  this  but  Jesus  Christ. 

Having  thus  gained  the  main  general  principle,  we  may 
notice  some  rules  to  guide  us  as  to  the  right  apportionment 
of  time  and  property.  In  employing  our  time,  we  are  to 
make  suitable  allowance  for  sleep,  for  preparing  and  taking 
food,  for  securing  the  means  of  a  livelihood,  for  intellectual 
improvement,  for  exercise  and  amusement,  for  social  enjoy- 
ments, and  for  benevolent  and  religious  ditties.  And  it  is 
the  right  apportionment  of  time  to  these  various  duties 
which  ^constitutes  its  true  economy. 

^  In  deciding  respecting  the  rectitude  of  our  pursuits,  we 
are  bound  to  aim  at  the  most  practical  good  as  the  ultimate 
object  With  every  duty  of  this  life  our  benevolent  Creator 
has  connected  some  species  of  enjoyment,  to  draw  us  to  per- 
form it.  Thus  the  palate  is  gratified  by  performing  the 
duty  of  nourishing  our  bodies;  the  principle  of  curiosity  iis 
gratified  in  pursuing  useful  knowledge;  the  desire  of  appro- 
bation is  gratified  when  we  perform  general  social  duties; 
and  every  other  duty  has  an  alluring  enjoyment  connected 
with  it.  But  the  great  mistake  of  mankind  has  consisted  in 
'seeking  the  pleasures  connected  with  these  duties  as  the 
sole  aim,  without  reference  to  the  main  end  that  should  be 
held  in  view,  and  to  which  the  enjoyment  should  be  made 
subservient  Thus,  men  gratify  the  palate  without  refer- 
ence to  the  question  whether  the  body  is  properly  nour- 
ished; and  follow  after  knowledge  without  inquiring  wheth- 


876  THE  HOUSEKXSPEB  JJHD  HBALTHKSEPSB; 

er  it  ministers  to  good  or  evil;  and  seek  amasetnents  with- 
out reference  to  the  great  end  to  which  they  should  minister. 
In  gratifying  the  implanted  desires  of  our  nature,  we  are 
bound  so  to  restrain  ourselves,  by  reason  and  conscience,  as 
always  to  seek  the  main  objects  of  existence — the  highest 
good  of  ourselves  and  others ;  and  never  to  sacrifice  this  for 
the  mere  gratification  of  our  desires.    We  are  to  gratify  ap- 

,  petite  just  so  far  as  is  consistent  with  health  and  useful- 
ness, and  the  desire  for  knowledge  just  so  far  as  will  en- 

-  able  us  to  do  most  good  by  our  influence  and  efforts,  and 
no  further.  We  are  to  seek  social  intercourse  to  that  ex- 
tent which  will  best  promote  domestic  enjoyment  and  kind- 
ly feelings  among  neighbors  and  fnends ;  and  we  a]ce  to  pur- 
sue exercise  and  amusement  only  so  far  as  will  best  sustain 
the  vigor  of  body  and  mind. 

The  laws  of  the  Supreme  Ruler,  when  he  became  the  civil 
as  well  as  the  religious  Head  of  the  Jewish  theocracy,  fur- 
nish an  example  which  it  would  be  well  for  all  attentively 
to  consider  when  forming  plans  for  the  apportionment  of 
time  and  property.  To  properly  estimate  this  example,  it 
must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  main  object  of  God  was  to 
set  an  example  of  the  temporal  rewards  that  follow  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  the  Creator,  and  iCt  the  same  time  to  pre- 
pare religious  teachers  to  extend  the  more  enlarged  views 
and  duties  resulting  from  the  dangers  of  the  future  life  re- 
vealed by  Jesus  Christ. 

Before  Christ  came,  the  Jews  were  not  required  to  go  forth 
to  other  nations  as  teachers  of  religion,  nor  were  the  Jewish 
nation  led  to  obedience  by  motives  of  a  life  to  come.  To 
them  God  was  revealed  both  as  ft  Father  and  a  civil  ruler, 
and  obedience  to  laws  relating  solely  to  this  life  was  all  that 
was  required.  So  low  were  they  in  the  scale  of  civilization 
and  mental  development,  that  a  system  which  confined  them 
to  one  spot  as  an  agricultural  people,  and  prevented  their 
growing  very  rich  or  having  extensive  commerce  with  oth- 

.  er  nations',  was  indispensable  to  prevent  their  relapsing  into 
the  low  idolatries  and  vices  of  the  nations  around  them, 
while  temporal  rewards  and  penalties  were  more  efiective 
than  those  of  a  life  to  come.    Such  faith  in  God,  his  la\v^9. 


THE  BIGHT  USB   OF  TtUB  ANI>  PBOFBBTT.  877 

and  those  temporal  rewards  and  penalties  as  secured  habitual 
obedience,  were  all  that  was  required. 

The  proportion  of  time  and  property  which  every  iew 
was  required  to  devote  to  intellectual,  benevolent,  and  re- 
ligious purposes,  was  as  follows : 

In  regard  to  property,  they  were  required  to  give  one- 
tenth  of  all  their  yearly  inco'me  to  support  the  Levites,  the 
priests,  and  the  religious  service.  .  Next,  they  were  required 
to  give  the  first-fruits  of  all  their  com,  wine,  oil,  and  fruits, 
and  the  first-bom  of  all  their  cattle,  for  the  Lord's  treasury, 
to  be  employed  for  the  priests,  the  widow,  the  fatherless,  and 
the  stranger.  The  first-bom,  also,  of  their  children,  were 
the  Lord's,  and  were  to  be  redeemed  by  a  specified  sum 
paid  into  the  sacred  treasury.  Besides  this,  they  were  re- 
quired to  bring  a  free-will  offering  to  God  every  time  they 
went  up  to  the  three  great  yearly  festivals.  In  addition  to 
this,  regular  yearly  sacrifices  of  cattle  and  fowls  were  re- 
quired of  each  family,  and  occasional  sacrifices  for  certain 
sins  or  ceremonial  impurities.  In  reaping  their  fields,  they 
were  required  to  leave  the  corners  unreaped  for  the  poor ; 
.not  to  glean  their  fields,  olive-yards,  or  vineyards ;  and  if  a 
sheaf  was  lefl  by  mistake,  they  were  not  to  retnm  for  it  but 
leave  it  for  the  poor. 

One-twelfth  of  the  people  were  set  apart,  having  no  land- 
ed property,  to  be  priests  and  teachers ;  and  the  other  tribes 
were  required  to  support  them  liberally. 

In  regard  to  the  time  taken  from  secular  pursuits  for  the 
support  of  education  and  religion^  an  equally  liberal  amount 
was  demanded.  In  the  first  place,  one-seventh  part  of  their 
time  was  taken  for  the  weekly  Sabbath,  v^hen  no  kind  of 
work  was  to  be  done.  Then  the  whole  nation  were  required 
to  meet  at  the  appointed  place  three  times  a  year,  which,  in- 
cluding their  journeys  and  stay  there,  occupiecl  about  eight 
weeks,  or  another  seventh  part  of  their  time.  Then  the  Sab- 
batical year,  when  no  agricultural  labor  was  to  be  done,  took 
another  seventh  of  their  time  from  their  regular  pursuits,  as 
they  were  an  agricultural  people.  This  was  the  amount  of 
time  and  property  demanded  by  God,  simply  to  sustain  edn- 
catiqn,  religion,  and  morality  within  the  bounds,  of  one  nationi 


878  THE   IIOUSEEBUPES  AND   HEALTHKSEPES. 

Il  was  promised  to  this  Dation,  and  fulfilled  by  constant 
miraculous  interpositions,  that  in  this  life  obedience  to  God's 
laws  should  isecure  health,  peace,  prosperity,  and  long  life ; 
while  for  disobedience  was  threatened  war,  pestilence,  fam^ 
ine,  and  all  temporal  evils.  These  promises  were  constantlT* 
verified;  and  in  the  day  of  Solomon,  when  this  nation  was 
most  obedient,  the  whole  world  was  moved  with  wonder  at 
its  wealth  and  prosperity.  But  up  to  this  time,  no  attempt 
was  made  by  God  to  enlarge  the  obligations  and  motives 
by  revelations  as  to  the  future  life. 

But  "  when  the  fullness  of  time  had  come,V  and  the  race 
of  man  was  prepared  to  receive  higher  responsibilities,  Jesus 
Christ  came  and  *' brought  life  and  immoitality  to  light" 
with  a  clearness  never  before  revealed,  and  new  and  heavy 
i-esponsibilities  consequent  on  the  dangers  of  the  life  to 
come.  At  the  same  time  was  revealed  the  fatherhood  of 
God,  not  to  the  Jews  alone,  but  to  the  whole  humaii  race, 
and  the  consequent  brotherhood  of  man  ;  and  these  revela- 
tions in  many  respects  changed  the  whole  standard  of  duty 
and  obligation. 

Christ  came  as  "  God  manifest  in  the  fiesh,''  to  set  an  ex- 
ample of  self  sacrificing  love,  in  rescuing  the  whole  family 
of  man  from  the  dangers  of  the  unseen  world,  and  also  to 
teach  and  train  his  disciples  through  all  time  to  follow  his 
example.  And  those  who  conform  the  most  consistently  to 
his  teachings  and  example'  will  aim  at  a  standard  of  labor 
and  self-denial  far  beyond  that  demanded  of  the  Jews. 

It  is  not  always  that  men  understand  the  economy  of 
Providence  in  that  unequal  distribution  of  property  which, 
even  under  the  most  perfect  form  of  government,  will  always 
exist.  Many,  looking  at  the  present  state  of  things,  imagine 
that  the.rich,  if  they  acted  in  strict  confortnity  to  the  law 
of  benevolence,  would  share  all  their  property  with  their 
sufiering  fellow-men.  But  such  do  not  take  into  account 
the  inspired  declaration  that  "  a  man's  life  consisteth  not  in 
the  abundance  of  the  things  which  he  possesseth ;''  or,  in 
other  words,  life  is  made  valuable  not  by  great  possessions, 
but  by  such  a  charcuUer  as  prepares  a  man  to  enjoy  what  he 
holds.    God  perceives  that  human  character  can  be  most 


THB  BIGHT  US»   OF  TIME  AND  PBOPEBTY.  879 

improved  by  that  kind  of  discipline  which  exists  when  there 
is  something  valnable  to  be  gained  by  industrioas  efforts. 
This  stimulus  to  industry  could  never  exist  in  d  community 
where  all  are  just  alike,  as  it  does  in  a  state  of  society  where 
every  man  sees  possessed  by  others  enjoyments  which  he 
desires,  and  may  secure  by  effort  and  industry.  So,  in  a 
community  where  all  are  alike  as  to  property,  there  would 
be  no  chance  to  gain  that  noblest  of  all  attainments,  a  habit 
of  self-denying  benevolence  which  toils  for  the  good  of 
others,  and  takes  from  one's  own  store  to  increase  the  enjoy- 
ments of  another. 

Instead,  then,  of  the  stagnation,  both  of  industry  and  of 
benevolence,  which  would  follow  the  universal  and  equable 
distribution  of  propei-ty,  some  men,  by  superior  advantages 
of  birth,  or  intellect,  or  patronage,  come  into  possession  of  a 
great  amount  of  capital.  With  these  means  they  are  en- 
abled, by  study,  reading,  and  travel,  to  secure  expansion  of 
mind,  and  just  views  of  the  relative  advantages .  of  moral, 
intellectual,  and  physical  enjoyments.  At  the  same  time, 
Christianity  imposes  obligations  corresponding  with  the  in- 
crease of  advantages  and  means.  The  rich  are  not  at  liber- 
ty, to  spend  their  treasures  chiefly  for  themselves.  Their 
wealth  is  given  by  God,  to  be  employed  for  the  best  good 
of  mankind ;  and  their  intellectual  advantages  are  designed, 
prinaarily,  to  enable' them  to  judge  correctly  in  employing 
their  means  most  wisely  for  the  general  good. 

Now  suppose  a  man  of  wealth  inherits  ten  thousand  acres 
of  real  estate;  it  is  not  his  duty  to  divide  it  among  his  poor 
neighbors  and  tenants.  If  he  took  this  course,  it  is  probable 
that  most  of  them  would  spend  all  in  thriftless  waste  and 
indolence,  or  in  mere  physical  enjoyments.  Instead,  then, 
of  thus  putting  his  capital  out  of  his  hands,  he  is  bound  to 
retain  and  so 'to  employ  it  as  to  raise  his  family  and  his 
neighbors  to  such  a  state  of  virtue  and  intelligence  that  they 
can  secure  far  more,  by  their  own  efforts  and  industry,  than 
h^,  by  dividing  his  capital,  could  bestow  upon  them. 

In  this  view  of  the  subject,  it  is  manifest  that  the  unequal 
distribution  of  property  is  no  evil.    The  great  difficulty  is, ' 
that  so  large  a  portion  of  those  who  hold  much  capital,  in- 


880    '  THB  H0U8SKXSFSB  AND  HSALTHKSSPSB. 

stead  of  using  their  various  advantages  for  the  greatest  goo^ 
of  those  around  them,  employ  them  chiefly  for  selfish  indul- 
gences— thus  inflicting  as  much  mischief  on  themselves  as 
results  to  others  from  their  culpable  neglect.  A  great  por- 
tion of  the  iich  seem  to  be  acting  on  the  principle  that  the 
more  God  bestows  on  them  the  less  are  they  under  obliga- 
tion to  prsCctice  any  self-denial  in  fulfilling  his  benevolent 
plan  of  raising  our  race  to  intelligence  and  virtue,  and  thus 
to  eternal  happiness  afler  death. 

But  thei*e  are  cheering  examples  of  the  contrary  spirit  and 
prejudice,  some  of  which  will  be  here  recorded,  to  influence 
and  encourage  others. 

A  lady  of  great  wealth,  high  position,  and  elegant  culture, 
in  one  of  our  large  cities,  hired  and  furnished  a  house  adja- 
cent to  her  own,  and,  securing  the  aid  of  another  benevolent 
and  cultivated  woman,  took  twelve  orphan  girls  of  different 
ages,  and  educated  them  under  their  joint  care.  Not  only 
time  and  money  were  given,  but  love  and  labor,  just  as  if 
these  were  their  own  children ;  and  as  fast  as  one  was  pro- 
vided for,  another  was  taken. 

In  another  city,  a  young  lady,  with  property  of  her  own, 
hired  a  house,  and  made  it  a  home  for  homeless  and  unpro- 
tected women,  who  paid  board  when  they  could  earn  it,  and 
found  a  refuge  when  out  of  employment. 

Jn  another  city,  the  wife  erf  one  of  its  richest  merchants 
took  two  young  girls  from  the  certain  road  to  ruin  among 
the  vicious  poor.  She  boarded  them  with  a  respectable 
farmer,  and  sent  them  to  school ;  and  every  week  went  oat, 
not  only  to  supervise  them,  but  to  aid  in  training  them  to 
habits  of  neatness,  industry,  and  obedience,  just  as  if  they 
were  her  own  children. 

Next  she  hired  a  large  house  near  the  roost  degraded  part 
of  the  city,  furaished  it  neatly,  and  with  all  suitable,  conven- 
iences to  work,  and  then  rented  to  those  among  the  most 
degraded  whom  she  could  bring  to  conform  to  a  few  simple 
rules  of  decency,  industry,  and  benevolence  —  one  of  the^e 
rules  being  that  they  should  pay  her  the  rent  ^very  Satur- 
day night.  To  this  motley  gathering  she  became  chief  coun- 
selor and  friend,  quieted  their  brawls,  taught  them  to  aid 


THE  BIGHT  USB  OF  TIMB  ANp  PB0PBBT7.  .  881 

each  other  in  trouble  or  sickness,  and  strove  to  introdace 
among  them  that  law  of  patient  love  and  kindness  illnstrated 
by  her  own  example.  The  yoang  girls  in  this  tenement  she 
assembled  every  Saturday  at  her  own  hoase,  taught  them 
to  sing,  heard  them  recite  their  Sunday-school  lessons,  to  be 
sure  these  were  properly  learned ;  taught  them  to  make  and 
mend  their  own  clothing,  trimmed  their  bonnets,  and  took 
charge  of  their  Sunday  dress,  that  it  might  always  be  in  order. 

Of  course,  such  benevolence  drew  a  stream  of  ignorance 
and  misery  to  her  door;  and  so  successful  was  her  labor 
that  she  hired  a  second  house,  and  managed  it  on  th6  same 
plan.  One  hot  day  in  August  a  friend  fonud  her  combing 
the  head  of  a  poor,  ungainly,  foreign  girl.  She  had  per- 
suaded a  friend  to  take  her  from  compassion,  and  she  was  re- 
turned because  her  head  was  in  such  a  state.  Finding  no 
one  else  to  do  it,  the  lady  herself  bravely  met  the  difficulty, 
and  persevered  in  this  daily  ministry  till  the  evil  was  reme-^ 
died,  and  the  poor  girl  thus  secured  a  comfortable  home  and 
wages. 

A  young  lady  of  wealth  and  position,  with  great  musical 
culture  and  taste,  found  among  the  poor  two  young  girls 
with  fine  voices  and  great  musical  talent.  Gaining  her  par- 
ents' consent,  the  young  lady  took  one  of  them  home,  trained 
her  in  music,  and  saw  that  her  school  education  was  secured ; 
so. that,  when  expensive  masters  and  instruments  were  need- 
ed, the  girl  herself  eaiiied  the  money  required,  as  a  govern- 
ess in  a  family  of  wealthy  friends.  Then  she  aided  the  sis* 
ter;  and,  as  the  result,  one  of  them  is  married  happily  to  a 
man  of  great  wealth,  and  the  other  is  receiving  a  large  in- 
come as  a  popular  musical  artist. 

Another  young  girl,  educated  as  a  fine  musician  by  her 
wealthy  parents,  at  the  age  of  sixteen  was  afflicted  with 
weak  eyes  and  a  heart  complaint.  She  strove  to  solace  her- 
self by  benevolent  ministries.  By  teaching  music  to  chil- 
dren of  wealthy  friends,  she  earned  the  means  to  relieve,  and 
instruct  the  suffering,  ignorant,  and  poor. 

These  examples  may  suffice  to  show  that,  even  among  the 
most  wealthy,  abundant  modes  of  self  denying  benevolence 
may  be  found,  where  there  is  a  heart  to  seek  them. 


882  TUS  UDUBSKXXPSB.AND  HXALTHKBSPSB. 

There  is  no  direction  in  which  a  tme  Christian  economy 
of  time  and  money  is  more  conspicnoas  than  in  the  style  of 
living  adopted  in  the  family  state. 

Those  who  build. stately  mansions,  and  lay  oat  extensive 
grounds,  and  maltiply  the  elegancies  of  life,  to  be  enjoyed 
by  themselves  and  a  select  few,  ''have  their  reward"  in  the 
enjoyments  that  end  in  this  life.  But  those  who,  with  equal 
means,  adopt  a  style  that  enables  them  largely  to  devote 
time  and  wealth  to  the  eternal  welfare  of  their  fellow-men, 
are  laying  np  never-failing  treasures  in  heaven,  in  the  ever- 
lasting virtue,  gratitude,  and  happiness  of  those  they  have 
thus  saved  and  blessed. 

By  taking  Christ  as  the  example,  by  communion  with  him, 
and  by  daily  striving  to  imitate  his  character  and  conduct, 
we  may  form  such  a  temper  of  mind  that  ''doing  good''  on 
that  highest  scale  revealed  by  our  Lord  will  become  the 
chief  and  highest  source  of  enjoyment.  And  this  heavenly 
principle  will  grow  stronger  and  stronger,  until  self-denial 
loses  the  more  painful  part  of  its  character;  and  then,  to 
save  men  from  sin,  and  guide  them  to  eternal  happiness,  will 
be  so  delightful  and  absorbing  a  pursuit,  that  all  exertions 
regarded  as  the  means  to  this  end  will  be  like  the  joyous 
efforts  of  men  when  they  stnve  for  a  prize  or  a  crown  with 
the  full  hope  of  success. 

In  this  view  of  the  subject,  effoils  and  self-denial  for  the 
good  of  others  are  to  be  regarded  not  merely  as  duties  en- 
joined for  the  benefit  of  others,  but  as  the  moral  training 
indispensable  to  the  formation  of  that  character  on  which 
depends  our  own  hap|^iness.  This  view  exhibits  the  fiill 
meaning  of  the  Saviour's  declaration,. "  How  hardly  shall 
they  that  have  riches  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God !"  He 
had  before  taught  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  consisted  not 
in  such  enjoyments  as  the  worldly  seek,  but  in  the  temper 
of  self-denying  benevolence  like  his  own;  and  as  the  rich 
have  far  greater  temptations  to 'indolent  self- indulgence^ 
they  are  far  less  likely  to  acquire  this  temper  than  those 
who,  by  limited  means^  are  inuredto  some  degree  of  self- 
denial.  ;  ' 

But  on  this  point  one  important  distinction  needs  to  be 


THB  Bli^T  USS   OF  TIMS  AND  PBOPSBTT.  383 

made;  knd  that  is, between  the  Belf-denial  which  has  no  0th-. 
er  aim  than  mere  self-mortifiication,  and  that  which  is  iii^f- 
oised  to  secare  greater  good  to  ourselves  and  others.  The 
first  is  the  foundation  of  monasticism,  penanees,  and  all  oth- 
er forms  of  asceticism ;  the  latter  only  is  that  which  Chris- 
tianity requires. 

.  A  second  consideration,  which  may  give  definiteness  to 
this  subject^  is,  that  aiming  at'  a  perfect  character  for  our- 
selves and  for  others  involves  not  the  extermination  of  any 
principles  of  our  nature,  but  rather  the  regulating  of  them, 
according  to  the  rules  of  reason  and  religion ;  so  that  the 
lower  propensities  shall  always  be  kept  subordinate  to  no- 
bbier principles.  Thus  we  are  not  to  aim  at  destroying  our 
appetites,  or  at  needlessly  denying  them,  but  rather  so  to 
regulate  them  that  they  shall  best  secure  the  objects  for 
which  they  were  implanted.  We  are  not  to  annihilate  the 
love  of  praise  and  admiration,  but  so  to  control  it  that  the 
favor  of  God  shall  be  regarded  more  than  the  estimation  of 
men.  We  are- not  to  extirpate  the  principle  of  curiosity,' 
which  leads  us  to  acquire  knowledge,  but  so  to  direct  it  that 
all  our  acquisitions  shall  be  useful,  and  not  frivolous  or  inju- 
rious. And  thus  with  all  the  principles  of  the  mind^  God 
.has  implanted  no  desires  in  our  constitution  which  are  evil 
and  pernicious.  On  the  contrary,  all  our  constitutional  pro- 
pensities, either  of  mind  or  body,  he  designed  we  should 
gratify,  whenever  no  evils  would  thence  result  either.to  pur- 
selves  or  othei-s.  Such  passions  ias  envy,  selfish  ambition, 
contemptuous  pride,  revenge,  and  hatred,  ai*e  to  be  extermi-  . 
Qated;  for  they  are  either  excesses  or  excrescences,  not  cre- 
ated by  God,  but  rather  the  result  of  our  own  neglect  to 
form  habits  of  benevolence  and  self-control. 

..  A  third  consideration  is  that,  though  the  means  for  sus- 
taining life  and  health  are  to  be  regarded  as  necessaries, 
'  without  whiqh  no  other  duties  can  be  performed,  yet  a  very 
large  portion  .of  ^ the  time  spent  by  most  persons  in  easy  cir- 
cumstances for  food,  raiment,  and  dwellings,  is  for  mere  eu- 
peffluUies;  which  are  right  when  they  do. not  involve  the 
sacrifice  of  higher  interests,  and  wrong  when  they  do.  Life 
anil  health  can  be  sustained  in  the  humblest  dwellings^ with 


884 


THX  HOUBBKSSPBB  AKD  HJBALTHKXXPXB. 


the  plainest  dress  and  the  simplest  food;  and  after  taking 
from  oar  means  what  is  necessary  for  life  and  healtb^  the  re- 
mainder is  to  be  so  divided  that  the  larger  portion  shall  be 
given  to  supply  the  moral  and  intellectual  wants  of  onr- 
selves  and  others. 

There  are  many  so  dependent  on  parents  or  hnsbands^  as 
to  suffer  perplexity  as  to  th^ir  own  duty  on  this  account. 
In  reference  to  these  difficulties,  the  first  remark.is,  that  we 
are  never  under  obligations  to  do  what  is  entirely  out  of  our 
power ;  so  that  those  persons  who  can  not  regulate  their  ex- 
penses or  their  charities  are  under  no  sort  of  obligation  to 
do  so.  The  second  remark  is,  that,  when  a  rule  of  duty  is 
discovered,  if  we  can  not  fully  attain  to  it,  we  are  bound  to  • 
aim  at  it,  and  to  fulfill  it  just  so  far  as  wo  can.  We  have 
no  right  to  throw  it  aside  because  we  shall  find  some  diffi- 
cult cases  when  we  come  to  apply  it.  The  third  remark  is, 
that  no  person  can  tell  how  much  can  be  done  till  a  faithful 
trial  has  been  made.  If  a  woman  has  never  kept  any  ac- 
counts, nor  attempted  to  regulate  her  expenditures  by  the 
right  rule,  nor  used  her  influence  with  those  that  control  her 
plans,  to  secure  this  object,  she  has  no  right  to  say  how  much 
she  can,  or  can  not  do  till  after  a  fair  trial  has  been  made. 

Is  it  objected.  How  can  we  decide  between  superfluities^ 
and  necessities?  It  is  replied,  that  we  are  not  required  to 
judge  exactly  in  all  cases.  Onr  duty  is  to  use  the  means  in 
our  power  to  assist  us  in  forming  a  correct  judgment;  to 
seek  the  Divine  aid  in  freeing  our  minds  from  indolence  and 
selfishness;  and  then  to  judge  as  well  as  we  can  in  our  en- 
deavors rightly  to  apportion  and  regulate  our  expenses. 
Many  persons  seem  to  feel  that  they  are  bound  to  do  better - 
than  they  know  how.  But  God  is  not  so  hard  a  master; 
and  after  we  have  used  all  proper  means  to  learn  the  right 
way,  if  we  then  follow  it  according  to  our  ability,  we  do 
wrong  to  feel  misgivings,  or  to  blame  ourselves,  if  results' 
come  out  differently  from  what  seemr  desirable. 

The  results  of  our  actions  alone  can  never  prove  us  de- 
serving of  blame.  For  men  are  often  so  placed  that,  owing 
to  lack  of  intellect  or  means,  it  is  impossible  for  them  to  de- 
cide correctly.    To  use  all  the  means  of  knowledge  within- 


THE  BIQHT  USE  07  TIME  AND  PBOPEJBTT.'  885 

oar  reach,  to  seek  Divine  guidance  by  prayer,  and  then  to 
jadge  with  a  candid  and  conscientions  spirit,  is  all  that  God 
requires;  and  when  we  have  done  this,  and  the  event  seems 
to  come  out  so  as  to  seem  unfortunate,  we  should  never  wish 
that  we  had  decided  otherwise ;  for  this  would  be  the  same 
as  wishing  that  we  had  not  followed' the  dictates  of  judg- 
ment and  conscience.  As  this  is  a  world  designed  for. dis- 
cipline and  trial,  what  seem  untoward  events  are  never  to 
be  construed  as  indications  of  the  obliquity  of  our  past  de^ 
cbions. 

In  malting  an  examination  on  this  subject,  it  is  sometimes 
the  case  that  a  woman  will  count  among  the  necessarieB  of 
life  all  the  various  modes  of  adorning  the  peraon  or  house 
practiced  in  the  circle  in  which  she  moves;  and  after  enu- 
merating the  many  duties  which  demand  attention,  counting 
these  as  a  part,  she  will  come  to  the  conclusion  that  she  has 
no  time,  and  but  little  money,  to  devote  to  personal  im- 
provement or  to  benevolent  enterprises.  This  surely  is  not 
in  agreement  with  the  requiremeDts  of  the  Saviour,  who  calls 
on  us  to  seek  for  others  as  well  as  ourselves, ^«^  of  ali^**  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness." 

In  oDder  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  rule  here  presented, 
it  is  true  that  many  would  be  obliged  to  give  up  the  idea  of 
conforming  to  the  notions  and.  customs  of  those  with  whom 
they  associate,  and  compelled  to  adopt  the  maxim,  ^  Be  not 
conformed  to  this  world."  In  many  oases  it  would  involve 
an  entire  change  in  the  style  of  living.  And  the  writer  has 
the  happiness  of  knowing  more  cases  than  one  where  per-, 
sons  who  have  come  to  similar  views  on  this  subject  have^ 
given  up  large  and  expensive  establishments,  that  they  might 
keep  a  pure  conscience,  and  regulate  their  charities  more  ac- 
cording to  the  requirements  of  Christianity. 

In  deciding  what  particular  objects  shall  receive  our  ben- 
efactions, there  are  also  general  principles  to  guide  us.  The 
first  is  that  presented  by  our  Saviour,  when,  after  urging 
the  great  law  of  benevolence,  he  was  asked,  ^Ajid  who  is 
raiy  neighbor?"  His  reply,  in  the  parable  of  *'the  Good 
Samaritan,"  teaches  us  that  any  human  being  whose  wants 
are  brought  to  our  knowledge  is  our  neighbor.    The  wound- 

•  17 


^86  TH|B  HOUSSKXSPSB  AND  HJCALTHKSSPEB. 

ed  man.  in  that  parable  was  not  only  a  stranger,  bat  he  be- 
longed to  a  foreign  nation,  peculiarly  hated ;  and  be  had  no 
claim,  except  that  his  wants  were  bronght  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  wayfaring  man.  From  this  we  learn  that  the  desti- 
tute of  all  nations  become  oar  neighbors  as  soon  as  their 
wants  are  brought  to  our  knowledge. 

Another  general  principle  is  this:  that  those  who  are 
most  in  need  must  be  relieved  in  preference  to  those  who 
are  less  destitute.  On  this  principle  it  is  that  we  :think  the 
followers  of  Christ  should  give  more  to  supply  those  who 
are  suffering  for  want  of  the  bread  of  eternal  life,  than  for 
those  who  are  deprived  of  physical  enjoyments.  And  an- 
other reason  for  this  preference  is  the  fact  that  many  who 
give  in  charity  have  made  such  imperfect  advances  in  civil- 
ization and  Christianity,  that  the  intellectual  and  moral 
wants  of  our  race  make  but  a  feeble  impression  on  the  mind. 
Relate  a  pitiful  tale  of  a  family  reduced  to  live  for  weeks  on 
potatoes  only,  and  many  a  mind  would  awake  to  deep  sym- 
pathy, and^  stretch  forth  the  hand  of  charity.  But  describe 
cases  where  the  immortal  mind  is  pining  in  stupidity  and 
ignorance,  or  racked  with  the  fever  of  baleful  passions,  and 
how  small  the  number^o  elevated  in  sentiment  andtso  en- 
larged in  their  views  as  to  appreciate  and  sympathize  in 
these  far  greater  misfortunes  1  The  intellectual  and  moral 
wants  of  our  fellow-men,  therefore,  should  claim  the  first 
place  in  Christian  attention,  both  because  they  are  most  im- 
portant, and  because  they  are  most  neglected ;  whilie  it  should 
not  be  forgotten,  in  giving  personal  attention  to  the  wants 
of  the  poor,  that  the  relief  of  immediate  physical  distress  is 
often  the  easiest  way  of  touching  tbe  moral  sensibilities  of 
the  destitute. 

Another  consideration  to  be  borne  in  mind  is,  that  in  this 
country  there  is  much  less  real  need  of  charity  in  supplying 
physical  necessities  than  is  generally  supposed  by  those  who 
liave  not  learned  the  more  excellent  way.  This  land  is  so 
abundant  in  supplies,  and  labor  is  in  such  demand,  that  ev- 
^ry  healthy  person  can  earn  a  <;omfortable  support ;  and  if 
all  the  poor  ^ere  instantly  made  virtuous,  it  is  probable  that 
there  would  be  few  physical  wants  which  could  not  readily 


THE  EiaHT  USE  OF  TIME  AND  PBOPEBTT.  887 

be  supplied  by  the  immediate  friends  of  each  sufferer.  The 
sick,  the  aged,  and  the  orphan  would  be  the  only  objects, 
of  charity.  lu  this  view  of  the  case,  the  primary  effort  in 
relieving  the  poor  should  be  to  furnish  them  the  means  of 
earning  their  own  support,  and  to  supply  them  with  those 
moral  influences  which  are  most  effectual  in  securing  virtue 
and  industry. 

Another  point  to  be  attended  to  is  the  importance  of 
maintaining  a  system  of  associated  charitied;  There  is  no 
point  in  which  the  economy  of  charity  has  more  improved, 
than  in  the  present  mod^  of  combining  many  small  contri- 
butions for  sustaining  enlarged  and  systematic  plans  of 
charity.  If  all  the  half-dollars  which  are  now  contributed 
to  aid  in  organized  systems  of  charity  were  returned  to  the 
donors,  to  be  applied  by  the  agency  and  discretion  of  each, 
thousands  and  thousands  of  the  treasures  now  em  ployed. to 
promote  the  moral  and  intellectual  wants  of  mankind  would 
become  entirely  useless.  In  a  democracy  like  ours,  where 
few  are  very  rich  and  the  majority  are  in  comfortable  cir- 
cumstances, this  collecting  and  dispensing  of  drops  and  rills 
is  the  mode  by  which,  in  imitation  of  nature,  the  dews  and 
showers  are  to  distill  on  parched  and  desert  lands.  And 
every  person,  while  earning  a  pittance  to  unite  with  roaiiy 
more,  may  be  cheered  with  the  consciousness  of  sustaining  a 
grand  system  of  operations  which  must  have  the  most  de- 
cided influence  in  raising  all  mankind  to  that  perfect  state 
of  society  which  Christianity  is  designed  to  accomplish. 

Another  consideration  relates  to  the  indiscriminate  be- 
stowal of  charity.  Persons  who  have  taken  pains  to  inform 
themselves,  and  who  devote  their  whole  time  to  dispensing 
charities,  unite  in  declaring  that  this  is  one  of  the  most  fruit- 
ful sources  of  indolence,  vice,  and  poverty.  From  several  of 
these  the  writer  has  learned  that,  by  their  OMcn  personal  in- 
vestigations, they  have  ascertained  that  there  are  large  es- 
tablishments of  idle  and  wicked  persons  in  most  of  our  cit- 
ies, who  associate  together  to  support  themselves  by  every 
species  of  imposition.  They  hire  large  houses,  and  live  in 
constant  rioting  on  the  means  thus  obtained.  Among  them 
are  women  who  have  or  who  hire  the  use  of  infant  children ; 


888      TBS  H0U8VKEXPBB  AND  HXALTHKESPEB. 

Others,  who  are  bliud,  or  maimed,  or  deformed,  or  who  can 
adroitly  feign  s^ch  infirmities ;  and  by  these  means  of  ex- 
citing pity,  and  by  artful  tales  of  woe,  they  collect  alms, 
both  in  city  and  country,  to  spend  in  all  manner  of  gross  and 
guilty  indulgences.  Meantime  many  persons,  finding  them- 
selves oilen  duped  by  impostors,  refuse  to  give  at  all ;  and 
thus  many  benefactions  are  withdrawn,  which  a  wise  econo- 
my in  charity  would  have  secured.  For  this  and  other  rea- 
sons, it  is  wise  and  merciful  to  adopt  the  general  rule,  never 
to  give  alms  till  we  have  had  some  opportunity  of  knowing 
bow  they  will  be  spent  There  are  exceptions  to  this,  as  to 
every  general  rule,  which'  a  person  of  discretion  can  deter- 
mine. But  the  practice  so  common  among  benevolent  per- 
sons of  giving  at  least  a  trifle  to  all  who  ask,  lest  perchance 
they  may  turn  away  some  who  are  really  sufferers,  is  on^ 
which  causes  more  sin  and  misery  than  it  cures. 

The  writer  has  never  known  any  system  for  dispensing 
charity  more  successful  than  the  cue  by  which  a  town  or 
city  is  divided  into  districts,  and  each  district  is  committed 
to  the  care  of  two  ladies,  whose  duty  it  is  to  call  on  each 
family  and  leave  a  book  for  a  child,  or  do  some  other  deed 
of  neighborly  kindness,  and  make  that  the  occasion  for  enter- 
ing into  convei-sation  and  learning  the  situation  of  all  resi- 
dents in  the  district.  By  this  method  the  ignorant,  the  vi- 
cious, and  the  poor  are  discovered,  and  their  physical,  intel- 
lectual, and  moral  wants  are  investigated.  In  some  places 
where  the  writer  has  known  this  mode  pursued,  each  person 
retained  the  same  district  year  afler  year;  so  that  every 
poor  family  in  the  place  was  under  the  watch  and  care  of 
some  intelligent  and  benevolent  lady,  who  used  all  her  influ- 
ence to  secure  a  proper  education  for  the  children,  to  fa rnish 
them  with  suitable  reading,  to  encourage  habits  of  industry 
and  economy,  |^nd  to  secure  regular  attendance  on  public 
religious  instruction.  Thns  the  rich  and  the  poor  were 
brought  in  contact  in  a  way  advantageous  to  both  parties ; 
and  if  such  a  system  could  be  universally  adopted,  more 
would  be  dpne  for  the  prevention  of  poverty  and  vice  than 
all  the  wealth  of  the  nation  could  avail  for  their  relief  But 
this  plan  can  not  be  successfully  carried  out  in  this  manner, 


.THS  BIGHT  USE  OF  TDCS  AND  PBOPEBTT.  889 

unless  there  is  a  large  proportion  of  intelligent,  benevolent, 
and  self-denying  persons  who  unite  in  a  systematic  plan.  ' 

But  there  is' one  species  of  charity '''which  needs  especial 
consideration.  It  is  that  spirit  of  kindly  love  which  induces 
us  to  refrain  from  judging  of  the  means  and  the  relative 
charities  of  other  persons.  There  have  been  such  indistinct 
notions,  and  so  many  different  standards  of  duty  on  this  sub- 
j^t,  that  it  is  rare  for  two  persons  to  think  exactly  alike  in 
regard  to  the  rule  of  duty.  Each  person  is  bound  to  inquire 
and  judge  for  himself  as  to  his  own  duty  or  defidiencies ;  but 
as  both  the  resources  and  the  amount  of  the  actual  charities 
of  others*  are  beyond  our  ken,  it  is  as  indecorous  as  it  is  un- 
charitable to  sit  in  judgznent  on  their  decisions. 


890  THS  HOUSEKXZrXB  AND  HSALTHSLXXPSS. 


CHAPTER  XXVL 

THB  CABS   OF  VSTFAISITS. 

Thb  topic  of  this  chapter  may  well  be  prefaced  by  an  ex- 
tract from  Herbert  Spencer  on  the  treatment  of  offspring. 
He  first  supposes  that  some  futnre  philosophic  speculator, 
examining  the  course  of  education  of  the  present  period, 
should  find  nothing  relating  to  the  training  of  children,  and 
that  his  natural  inference  would  be  that  our  schools  were 
all  for  monastic  orders,  who  have  no  charge  of  infancy  and 
childhood.  He  then  remarks,  *'  Is  it  not  an  astonishing  fact 
that,  though  on  the  treatment  of  offspnng  depend  their  lives 
or  deaths  and  their  moral  welfare  or  ruin,  yet  that  so  little 
instraction  on  the  treatment  of  offspring  is  ever  given  to 
those  who  will  hereafter  be  parents?  Is  it  not  monstrous 
that  the  fate  of  a  new  generation  should  be  lefl  to  the 
chances  of  unreasoning  custom,  or  impulse,  or  fancy,  joined 
with  the  suggestions  of  ignorant  nurses  and  the  prejudiced 
counsel  of  grandmothers  ? 

*'  If  a  merchant  should  commence  business  without  any 
knowledge  of  arithmetic  or  book-keepings  we  should  exclaim 
at  his  folly,  and  look  for  disastrous  consequences.  Or  if, 
without  studying  anatomy,  a  man  set  up  as  a  surgeon,  we 
should  wonder  at  his  audacity,  and  pity  his  patients.  But 
that  parents  should  commence  the  difficult  work  of  rearing 
chiidren  without  giving  earnest  attention  to  the  principles, 
physical,  moral,  or  intellectual,  which  ought  to  guide  them, 
excites  neither  surpnse  at  the  actors  nor  pity  for  the  vic- 
tims. 

.  ^'To  tens  of  thousands  that  are  killed  add.hundreds  of 
thousands  that  survive  with  feeble  constitutions,  and  millions 
not  so  strong  as  they  should  be;  and  you  will  have  some 
idea  of  the  curse  inflicted  on  their  offspring  by  parents  ig- 
norant of  the  laws  of  life.  Do  but  consider  for  a  moment 
that  the  regimen  to*  which  children  are  subject  is  hourly 


TAB  CASE  OF  INFANTS.  891 

telling  upon  them  to  their  life-long  injary  or  benefit,  and 
that  there  are  twenty  ways  of  going  wrong  to  one  way  o^ 
going  right,  and  you  will  get  some  idea  of  the  enormous 
mischief  that  is  almost  everywhere  inflicted  by  the  thought- 
less, hap-hazard  8y9teni  in  common  use. 
'  ''When  sons  and  daughters  grow  up  sickly  and  feeble, 
parents'commonly  regard  the  event  as  a  visitation  of  Provi- 
dence. They  assume  that  these  evils  come  without  cause, 
or  that  the  cause  is  supernatural.  Nothing  of  the  kind.  In 
some  cases  causes  are  inlierited,  but  in-  most  cases  foolish 
management  is  the  cause.  Very  generally  parents  them- 
selves ate  responsible  for  this  pain,  this  debility,  this  de- 
pressioi),  this  misery.  They  have  undertaken  to  control  the 
lives  of  their  offspring,  and  with  cruel  carelessness  have 
neglected  to  learn  those  vital  processes  which  they  are  daily 
affecting  by  their  commands  and  prohibitions.  In  utter  ig- 
norance of  the  simplest  physiological  laws,  they  have  been, 
year  by  year,  undermining  the  constitutions  of  their  children, 
and  so  have  inflicted  disease  and  premature  death,  not  only 
on  them  but  also  on  their  descendants. 

'' Equally  great  are  the  ignorance  and  consequent  injury, 
when  we  turn  from  the  physical  to  the  moral  training.  Con^ 
sider  the  young,  untaught  mother  and  her  nursery  legisla- 
tion. A  short  time  ago  she  was  at  school,  where  her  memo- 
ry was  crammed  with  words  and  names  and  dates,  and  her 
reflective  faculties  scarcely  in  the  slightest  degree  exercis^ 
— where  not  one  idea  was  given  her  respecting  the  methods 
of  dealing  with  the  opening  mind  of  childhood,  and  where 
her  discipline  did  not  in  the  least  fit  her  for  thinking  out 
methods  of  her  own.  The  intervening  years  have  been  spent 
in  pi*acticing  music,  fancy-work,  novel -reading,  and  party- 
going,  no  thought  having  been  given  to  the  grave  responsi- 
bilities of  materaity,  and  scarcely  any  of  that  solid  intellect- 
ual culture  obtained  which  would  fit  her  for  such  responsi- 
bilities ;  and  now  see  her  with  ah  unfolding  human  character 
committed  to  her  charge,  see  her  profoundly  ignorant  of  the 
phenomena  with  which  she  has  to  deal,  undertaking  to  do 
that  which  can  be  done  but  imperfectly  even  with  the  aid 
of  the  profoundest  knowledge  V^ 


392      THE  HOUSEKEEPER  AND  0EALTHKEEPBB. 

In  view  of  such  considerktiond^  6yery  yoang  lady  otight 
to  learn  how  to  take  proper  care  of  an  infant ;  for^  ev^n  if 
she  is  never  to  become  the  responsible  gaardian  of  a  nursery, 
she  will  often  be  in  situations  where  she  can  render  beneyp- 
lent  aid  to  others  in  this  most  fatigning  and  anxious  duty. 

The  writer  has  known  instances  in  which  young  ladies, 
who  had  been  trained  by  their  mothers  properly  to  perform 
this  duty,  were  in  some  cases  the  means  of  saving  the  lives 
of  infants,  and  in  others,  of  relieving  sick  mothers  from  in- 
tolerable care  and  anguish  by  their  benevolent  aid. 

On  this  point  Dr.  Combe  remarks:  ^All  women  are  not 
destined,  in  the  course  of  nature,  to  become  mothers ;  but 
how  very  small  is  the  number  of  those  who  are  unconnected, 
by  family  ties,  friendship,  or  sympathy,  yith  the  children  of 
others  !  How  very  few  are  there  who,  at  some  time  or  oth- 
er of  their  lives,  would  not  find  their  usefulness  and  happi- 
ness increased,  by  the  possession  of  a  kind  of  knowledge  inti- 
mately allied  to  their  best  feelings  and  affections  !  And  how 
important  is  it  to  the  mother  herself,  that  her  efforts  should 
be  seconded  by  intelligent  instead  of  ignorant  assistants  I" 

In  order  to  be  prepared  for  such  benevolent  ministries, 
every  young  lady  should  improve  the  opportunity,  when- 
ever it  is  afforded  her,  for  learning  how  to  wash,  dress,  and 
tend  a  young  infant ;  and  whenever  she  meets  with  such  a 
work  as  Dr.  Combe's,  on  the  management  of  infants,  she 
aaght  to  read  it,  and  remember  its  contents. 

The  directions  that  follow  have  been  taken  from  standard 
medical  writers,  or  have  been  examined  and  approved  by 
the  highest  class  of  physicians,  and  also  by  judicious  and  ex- 
perienced mothers. 

Says  Dr.  Combe  :  "  Nearly  one  half  of  the  deaths  occur- 
ring during  the  first  two  years  of  existence  are  ascribable 
to  mismanagement,  and  to  errors  in  diet.  At  birth,  the 
stomach  is  feeble,  and  as  yet  unaccustomed  to  food ;  its 
cravings  are  consequently  easily  satisfied,  and  frequently  re- 
newed." ''At  that  early  age,  there  ought  to  be  no  fix^ed 
time  for  giving  nourishment.  The  stomach  can  not  be  thus 
satisfied.''  "  The  active  call  of  the  infant  is  a  sign,'  which 
needs  never  be  mistaken." 


THE  CABB  OF  INFANTS.  393 

*^  Bat  care  must  be  taken  to  determine  between  the  cry- 
ing of.  pain  or  uneasiness,  and  the  call  for  food;  and  the 
practice  of  giving  an  infant  food  to  stop  its  cries  is  often 
the  means  of  increasing  its  sufferings.  After  a  child  has 
satisfied  its  hunger,  from  two  to  four  hours,  according  to  the 
age,  should  intervene  before  another  supply  is  given. 

^*At  birth,  the  stomach  and  bowels,  never  having,  been 
used,  contain  a  quantity  of  mucotis  secretion,  which  requires 
to  be  removed.  To  effect  this,  Nature  has  rendered  thlB.  first 
portions  of  the  mother's  milk  purposely  watery  and  laxative. 
Nurses,  however,  distrusting  Nature,  often  hasten  to  admin- 
ister some  active  purgative ;  and  the  consequence  often  is,' 
irritation  in  the  stomach  and  boweIs,'^ot  easily  subdued." 
It  is  only  where  the  child  is  deprived  of  its  mother's  milk,  as 
the  first  food,  that  some  gentle  laxative  should  be  given. 

^'  It  is  a  common  mistake  to  suppose  that  because  a  wom- 
an is  nursing,  she  ought  to  Uve  very  fully,  and  to  add  an  al- 
lowance of  wine,  porter,  or  other  fermented  liquor,  to  her 
usual  diet.  The  only  result  of  this  plan  is,  to  cause  an  un- 
natural fullness  in  the  system,  which  places  the  nurse  on  the 
brink  of  disease,  and  rietards  rather  than  increases  the  food 
of  the  infant.  More  will  be  gained  by  the  observance  of 
the  ordinary  laws  of  health  than  by  any  foolish  deviation, 
founded  on  ignorance." 

There  is  no  point  on  which  medical  men  so  emphatically 
lift  the  voice  of  warning  as  in  reference  to  administering 
medicines  to  infants.  It  is  so  difficult  to  discover  what  is 
the  matter  with  an  in&nt,  its  frame  is  so  delicate  and  so  su&> 
ceptible,  and  slight  causes  have  such  a  powerful  influence, 
that  it  requires  the  utmost  skill  and  judgment  to  ascertain 
what  would  be  proper  medicines,  and  the  proper  quantity 
to  be  given. 

Says  Dr.  Oombe :  ^That  there  are  cases  in  which  aptive 
means  must  be  promptly  used  to  save  the  child,  is  perfect- 
ly true.  But  it  is  not  less  certain  that  these  Are  cases  of 
which  no  mother  or  nurse  ought  to  attempt  the  treatment 
As  a  general  rule,  where  the  child  is  well  managed,  medi- 
cine of  any  kind  is  very  rarely  required ;  and  if:  disease 
weFe  more  generally  regarded  in  its  true  light,  not  as  some- 


894      TH£  H0U8XKSBPSB  AND  HSALTBKEEFEB. 

thing  thrust  into  the  system,  which  requires  to  be  expelled 
by  force,  but  as  an  aberration  from  a  natural  mode  of  action, 
produced  by  some  external  cause,  we  should  be  in  less  haste 
to  attack  it  by  medicine,  and  more  watchful  in  its  preven- 
tion. *  Accordingly,  where  a  ^^onstant  demand  for  medicine 
exists  in  a  nursery,  the  mother  may  rest  assured  that  there 
is  something  essentially  wrong  in  the  treatment  of  her  chil- 
dren. 

''Much  havoc  is  made  among  infants  by  the  abuse  of 
medicines,  which  procure  momentary  relief  but  end  by  pro- 
ducing incurable  disease ;  and  it  has  oflen  excited  my  as- 
tonishment to  see  how  recklessly  remedies  of  this  kind  are 
had  recourse  to,  on  the  most  trifling  occasions,  by  mothers 
and  nurses,  who  would  be  horrified  if  they  knew  the  natui-e 
of  the  power  they  are  wielding,  and  the  extent  of  injury 
they  are  inflicting." 

Instead,  then,  of  depending  on  medicine  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  health  and  life  of  an  infant,  the  following  precau- 
tions and  preventives  should  be  adopted : 
*  "Take  particular  care  of  the  food  of  an  infant.  If  it  is 
nourished  by  ther  mother,  het  own  diet  should  be  simple, 
nourishing,  and  temperate.  If  the  child  be  brought  up  '  by 
hand,'  the  milk  of  a  new  milch-cow,  mixed  with  one-third 
water,  and  sweetened  a  little  with  viHiU  sugar,  should  be  the 
only  food  given,  until  the  teeth  come.  This  is  more  suita- 
ble than  any  preparations  of  flour  or  arrowroot,  the  nourish- 
ment of  which  is  too  highly  concentrated.  Never  give  a 
child  hready  cake^  or  meat^  before  the  teeth  appear.  If  the 
food  appear  to  distress  the  child  after  eating,  first  ascertain 
if  the  milk  be  really  from  a  new  milch-cow,  as  it  may  oth- 
erwise be  too  old.  Learn,  also,  whether  the  cow  lives  on 
proper  food.  Cows  that  are  fed  on  stiH-slopa^  as  is  often  the 
casein  cities,  furnish  milk  which  is  very  unhealthful." 

Be  sure  and  keep  a  good  supply  of  pure  and  fresh  air  in 
the  nursery.  On  this  point  Dr.  Bell  remarks,  respecting 
rooms  constructed  without  fire-places  and  without  doors  or 
windows  to  let  in  pure  air  from  without, "  The  sufferings  of 
children  of  feeble  constitutions  are  increased  beyond  meas- 
ure by  such  lodgings  as  these*    An  action,  brought  by  the 


THE  CABS  OP  INFANTS.  395 

commonwealth,  oaght  to  lie  against  those  persons  who  boild 
houses  for  sale  or  rent,  in  which  rooms  are  so  constmcted  as 
not  to  allow  of  free  ventilation ;  and  a  writ  of  lunacy  taken 
out  against  those  who,  with  the  common-sense,  experience 
which  all  have  on  this'  head,  should  spend  any  portion  of 
their  time,  still  more,  should  sleep,  in  rooms  thus  nearly  air- 
tight'' 

After  it  is  a  month  or  two  old,  take  an  infant  out  to  walk, 
or  ride,  in  a  little  wagon,  every  fair  and  warm  day;  but  be 
very  careful  that  its  feet,  and  every  part  of  its  body,  are 
kept  warm;  and  be  sure  that  its  eyes  are  well  protected 
from  the  light.  Weak  eyes,  and  sometimes  blindness,  are 
caused  by  neglecting  this  precaution.  Keep  the  head  of  an 
infant  cool,  never  allowing  too  warm  bonnets,  nor  permit- 
ting it  to  sink  into  soft  pillows  when  asleep.  Keeping  an 
infant's  head  too  warm  very  much  increases  nervous  irrita- 
bility, and  this  is  the  reason  why  medical  men  forbid  the 
use  of  c^ps  for  infants.  But  the  head  of  an  in&nt  should, 
especially  while  sleeping,  be  protected  from  draughts  of  air, 
and  froiH  getting  cold. 

Be  very  careful  of  the  skin  of  an  infant,  as  nothing  tends 
so  effectnally  to  prevent  disease.  For  this  end,  it  should  be 
washed  all  over  every  morning,  and  then  gentle  friction 
should  be  applied  with  the  hand,  to  the  back,  stomach,  bow- 
els, and  limbs.  The  head  shbuld  be  thoroughly  washed  ev- 
ery day,  and  then  brushed  with  a  soft  hair-brush,  or  combed 
with  a  fine  comb.  If,  by  neglect,  dirt  accumulates  under 
the  hair,  apply  "with  the  finger  the  yelk  of  an  egg,  and  then 
the  fine  comb  will  remove  it  all  without  any  trouble. 

Dress  the  infant  so  that  it  will  be  always  warm,  but  not 
so  as  to  cause  perspiration.  Be  sure  and  keep  its  feet  al- 
toaya  warm ;  and  for  this  often  warm  them  at  a  fire,  and  use 
long  dresses.  Keep  the  neck  and  arms  covered.  For  this 
purpose,  wrappers,  opeif  in  front,  made  high  in  the  neck,  with 
long  sleeves,  to  put  on  over  the  frock^  are  now  very  fashion- 
able. 

It  is  better  for  both  mother  and  child,  that  it  should  not 
sleep  on  the  mother's  arm  at  night,  unless  the  weather  be 
extremely  cold^     This  practice  keeps  the  child  top  warm, 


396  THE  HOUSBKXSPSR  AND  HBAI/TBlcxxPSB. 

and  leads  it  to  seek  food  too  frequently.  A  child  should 
ordinarily  take  nourishment  but  once  or  twice  in  the  night. 
A  crib  beside  the  mother,  with  plenty  of  warm  and  light 
oqyering,  is.  best  for  the  child ;  but  the  mother  must  be  sure 
that  it  is  always  kept  warm. 

Never  cover  a  child^s  head  so  that  it  will  inhale  the  air 
of  its  own  lungs.  In  very  warm  weather^  especially  in  oit- 
ieSy  great  pains  dhould  be  taken  to  find  fresh  and  cool  air  by 
rides  and  sailing.  Walks  in  a  public  square  in  the  cool  of 
the  morning,  and  fi*equent  excursions  in  ferry  or  steamboats 
would  often  save  a  long  bill  for  medical  attendance.  In  hot 
nights,  the  windows  should  be  kept  open,  and  the  infant  laid 
on  a  mattress,  or  on  folded  blankets.  A  bit  of  straw  mat^ 
ting,  laid  over  a  feather-bed  and  covered  with  the  under 
sheet,  makes  a  very  cool  bed  for  an  infant. 

Cool  bathing,  in  hot  weather,  is  very  useful  *  but  the 
water  should  be  very  little  cooler  than  the  skin  of  the  child. 
When  the  constitution  is  delicate,  the  water  should  .be' 
slightly  warmed.  Simply  sponging  the  body  freely  in  a 
tub,  answers  the  same  purpose  as  a  regular  bath.  In  very 
warm  weather  this  should  be  done  two  or  three  titAes  a  day, 
always  waiting  two  or  three  hours  after  food  has  been  given. 

^^  When  the  stomach,  is  peculiarly  irritable,  (from  teeth- 
ing,) it  is  of  paramount  necessity  to  withhold  all  the  nos- 
trums which  have  been  so  falsely  lauded  as  *  sovereign  cures 
for  cholera  in/antumJ*  The  true  restoratives  for  a  child 
threatened  with  disease  are  cool  air,  cool  bathing,  and  cool 
drinks  of  simple  water,  in  addition  to  proper  fooa,  at.  stated 
intervals." 

In  many  cases,  change  of  air  from  sea  to  mountain,  or  the 
reverse,  has  an  immediate  healthful  influence  and  is  superior 
to  every  other  treatment.  Do  not  take  the  advice  of  moth- 
ers who  tell. of  this,  that^  and  the  other  thiiig,  which  have 
proved  excellent  remedies  in  their  experience.  Children 
have  different  constitutions,  and  there  are  multitudes  of  dif- 
ferent causes  for. their  sickness;  and  what  might  cure  one 
child,  might,  kill  another  which  appeared  to  have  the  same 
complaint.  A  mother  should  go  on  the  general  rule  of  giv- 
ing an  infant  very  little  medicine,  and  then  only  by  the  di- 


.      THX  CABS  OF  XNTA^dB.  )|$t 

rection  of  a  discreet  and  experienced  phjBiciati*  And  lht^i*i(k 
are  cases  when,  according  to  the  views  of  the  lUiVii  dl»itM* 
gaished  and  competent  practitioners,  phjsioians  th<^iiiiK»lvt^ 
are  much  too  free  in  n^ing  medicines,  instead  of  ado)>tlii|| 
preventive  measures. 

Do  not  allpw  a  child  to  form  such  habits  that  It  will  m% 
be  quiet  unless  tended  and  amused.  A  healthy  child  should 
be  accustomed  to  lie  or  sit  in  its  cradle  much  of  thv  %\\\\p\ 
but  it  should  occasionally  be  taken  up  and  tossedi  or  ^arrUil 
about  for  exercise  and  amusement  An  inflint  should  !»<» 
encouraged  to  cre^,  as  an  exercise  very  strongthsnlti)|  aud 
useful  If  the  mother  fears  the  soiling  of  its  nlott  dr«iiM»i*i 
she  can  keep  a  long  slip  or  apron  which  will  ttntlrnty  oov«>r 
the  dress,  and  can  be  removed  when  the  child  Is  taki*!!  In 
the  arms.  A  child  should  not  bo  allowod,  wh«>ii  qulti^ 
young,  to  bear  its  weight  on  its  feet  very  long  at  a  itiii^,  as 
this  tends  to  weaken  and  distort  the  limbs. 

Many  mothers,  with  a  little  painstaking,  suo<i«^»d  id  |iMt 
ting  their  infants  into  their  cradle  while  awaku,  at  regular 
hours  for  sleep;  and  indace  regularity  in  othar  haliHsi  wh)<«h 
saves  much  trouble*  During  this  training  prrKtu^a  a  ^MUi 
may  cry,  at  first,  a  great  deal ;  bat,  for  a  haaltby  ^lilld,  this 
use  of  the  lungs  does  no  harm,  and  tends  raihirr  to  ^irnngtlMiM 
than  to  injure  them,  unless  it  becomes  eirrjundlngly  tl/'l^ff. 
A  child  who  is  trained  to  lie  or  stt  and  amriM^  tia#ilf,  U  htip 
fier  than  one  who  is  carried  and  ien/li*/l  a  graat  /l#al,  S^l 
thus  rendered  restless  and  ooeaay  wb«f»  fi//i  mt  inylrilgn/i 

The  most  critical  period  in  the  IHh  />f  an  ifthhi  Is  Mrsf  hf 
deatitioii  or  uetimg^  espeeiafly  at  itm  ^iHfly  siagM.  Ah 
adolt  has  thtrty-iwo  leetb,  biH  y^yfmg  ahMt^tt  Kat^  ^rfrlf 
twcBtj,  which  gndvaitlf  looaefi  a^  arir  tMUfWf^4  hf  fh4( 
IMiBiiiMiif;  teeth,  Wbm  tfc#  ftfcif4  Kaa  fAtt  f^^^ih  Mf  ^n^h 
jaw,  aS  that  am  abided  arn  ttM  p^ffmm^^i  ^  wIVfAK  «Vml/f 
W  earefiilly  perserveii ;  thia  <ui*itW^  m  t^^^M,  aa  ^i^vtwaf  tM^ 
«fecaj  m  the  fr^  <3mM«  t^atK  f4  th^  a^^iwa4  aaf,  a^a  0^tfp^m^4 
to  he  of  the  trsnaiefit  sat,  aa4  ara  a*v  a^i^W^l^^  ^  ai'a  f^ 

tat  teesh  rim  ^  ^  t^  pf$m  a^pkiviaf,  fM  ^(if»ma,  ^K^a  k  a) 
way*  mom  6r  Iims  MUmwiui^^^Am^i/^  mfi^M^  kM/h^f*^^, 


898      THB  HOUS£KE£PSB  AND  HBALTHKSEPSB. 

and  the  impulse  to  put  every  thing  into  the  mouth.  Usual- 
ly there  is  disturbed  sleep,  a  slight  fever,  and  greater  flow 
of  saliva;  this  is  often  relieved  by  letting  thQ  child  have  ice 
to  bite,  tied  in  a  rag. 

Sometimes  the  disorder  of  the  mouth  extends  to  the  whole 
system.  In  difficult  teething,  one  symptom  is  the  jerJcing 
back  of  the  head  when  taking  the  breath,  as  if  in  pain,  owing 
to  the  extreme  soreness  of  the  gums.  This  is,  in  extreme 
cases,  attended  with  increased  saliva  and  a  gummy  secretion 
in  the  comers  of  the  eyes,  itching  of  the  nose,  redness  of 
cheeks,  rash,  convulsive  twitching  of  lips  and  the  muscles 
generally,  fever,  constipation,  and  sometimes  by  a  diarrhea, 
which  last  is  favorable  if  slight ;  difficulty  of  breathing,  di- 
lation of  the  pupils  of  the  eyes,  restless  motion  and  moan- 
ing ;  and  finally,  if  not  relieved,  convulsions  and  death.  The 
most  effective  relief  is  gained  by  lancing. the  gums.  Every 
woman,  and  especially  every  mother,  should  know  the  time 
and  order  in  which  the  infant  teeth  come,  and,  when  any  of 
the  above  symptoms  appear,  should  examine  the  mouth,  and 
if  a  gum  is  swollen  and  inflamed,  should  either  have  a  phy- 
sician lance  it,  or  if  this  can  not  be  done,  should  perform  the 
operation  herself  A  sharp  pen-knife  and  steady  hand,  mak- 
ing an  incision  to  touch  the  rising  tooth,  will  cause  no  more 
pain  than  a  simple  scratch  of  the  gum,  and  usually  will  give 
speedy  relief. 

The  temporary  teeth  should  not  be  removed  until  the  new 
ones  appear, as  it  injures  the  jaw  and  coming  teeth;  but  as 
soon  as  a  new  tooth  is  seen  pressing  upward,  the  tempomry 
tooth  should  be  removed,  or  the  new  tooth  will  come  out  of 
its  proper  place.  If  there  is  not  room  wh^re  the  new  tooth 
appears,  the  next  temporary  tooth  must  be  taken  out. 
Great  mischief  has  been  done  by  removing  the  first  teeth 
before  the  second  appear,  thus  making  a  contraction  of  the 
jaw. 

Most  trouble  with  the  teeth  of  young  children  comes  from 
neglect  to  use  the  brush  to  remove  the  tartar  that  accumu- 
lates near  the  gum^  causing  disease  and  deciay.  This  dis- 
ease is  sometimes  called,  scurvy y  and  is  Shown  by  an  accu- 
mulation around  the  teeth  and  by  inflamed  gums  that  bleed 


THB  CASE  OF  DTFAlirrS.    '  399 

easily.  Removal. of  the  tartar  by  a  dentist  and  cleaning  the 
teeth  after  every  meal  with  a  brush  will  usually  cure  this 
evil,  which  causes  loosening  of  the  teeth  and  a  bad  breath. 

Much  injuiy  is  often  done  to  teeth  by  using  improper 
tooth-powder.  The  tooth-brush  should  be  used  after  eveiy 
mealy  and  floss  silk  pressed  between  the  teeth  to  remove  food 
lodged  there.  This  method  will  usually  save  the  teeth  from 
decay  till  old  age,  and  there  is  no  need  of  tooth-powder. 

When  an  infant  seems  ill  during  the  period  of  dentition, 
the  following  directions  from  an  experienced  physician  may 
be  of  service.  It  is  now  an  accepted  principle  of  the  med- 
ical world  that  fevera  are  to  be  reduced  by  cold  applica- 
tions; but  an  infant  demands  careful  and  judicious  treat- 
ment in  this  dii*ection ;  some  have  extremely  sensitive  nerves, 
and  cold  is  painful.  For  such,  tepid  sponging  should  be 
used  near  a  fire,  and  the  coldness  increased  gradually.  The 
sensations  of  the  child  should  be  the  guide.  Usually,  but 
not  always,  children  that  are  healthy  will  learn  by  degrees 
to  prefer  cold  water,  and  then  it  may  safely  be  used.    - 

When  an  infant  becomes  feverish,  wrapping  its  body  in  a 
towel  wrung  out  in  tepid  or  cold  water,  and  thjen  keeping 
it  warm  in  a  woolen  blanket,  is  a  very  safe  and  soothing 
remedy. 

In  case  of  constipation,  thi^  preparation  of  food  is  useful : 

One  table-spoonful  of  unbolted  flour  wet  with  cold  water. 
Add  one  pint  of  hot  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Add, 
when  taken  up,  one  pintof  milk.  If  the  stomach  seems  deli- 
cate and  irritable,  strain  out  the  bran,  but  in  most  cases  re- 
tain it. 

Where  the  mother's  milk  fails,  tfnd  good  cow's  milk  can 
not  be  insured,  there  are  preparations  of  oat-meal  and  bar- 
ley-meal that  are  next  best.  These  may  be  used  when  the 
mother's  milk  is  injured  by  ill  health.  A  trial  must  be  made 
to  see  which  is  best.  Make  a  thin  gruel,  and  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  condensed  milk,  or  four  great  spoonfuls  of  milk 
to  a  coffee-cup  of  the  gruel  for  a  young  infant,  and  a  full 
one  for  an  older  child. 

In  case  of  diarrhea,  walk  with  the  child  in  arms  a  great 
deal  in  the  open  air,  and  give  it  rice-water  to  drink. 


400  THE   HOUBBKSBPBB  AND   HXALlteBBPBB. 

The  warmth  and  vital  inflaences  of  the  nnrse  are  very 
important,  and  make  this  mode  of  exercise  both  more  sooth- 
ing and  more  efficacious,  especially  in  the  open  air,  the  in- 
fant being  warmly  clad. 

In  case  of  feverishness  from  teething  or  from  any  other, 
cause,  wrap  the  infant  in  a  towel  wrung  out  id  tepid  water, 
and  then  wrap  it  in  a  woolen  blanket.  The  water  may  be 
cooler  according  as  the  child  is  older  and  stronger.  The 
evaporation  of  the  water  draws  off  the  heat,  while  the  moist- 
ure soothes  the  nerves,  and  usually  the  child  will  fall  into  a 
quiet  sleep.  ^  As  soon  as  it  becomes  restless,  change  the  wet 
towel  and  proceed  as  before. 

The  leading  physicians  of  Europe  and  of  this  country,  in 
all  cases  of  fevers,  use  cool  water  to  reduce  them,  by  this 
and  other  modes  of  application.  This  method  is  more 
soothing  than  any  other,  and  is  as  effective  for  adults  as  for 
infants. 

Some  of  the  most  distinguished  physicians  of  New  York 
who  have  examined  this  chapter  give  their  full  approval  of 
the  advice  given.  If  there  is  still  distrust  as  to  this  mode 
of  using  water  to  reduce  fevers,  it  will  be  advantageous  to 
read  an  address  on  the  use  of  cold  applications  in  fevers,  de- 
livered by  Dr.  William  Neftel,  before  the  New  York  Acade- 
my of  Medicine,  published  in  the  New  York  Medical  Record 
for  November,  1868;  this  can  be  obtained  by  inclosing 
twenty  cents  to  the  editor^  with  the  post-office  address  of 
the  applicant. 


THB  MAITAQEMENT  QV  TOXINa  CHILDBEIT.  401 


CHAPTER  XXVn. 

THB  MANAQEMBNT  OF  YOUNG  CHILDREN. 

In  regard  to  the  physical  education  of  bhildrcD,  Dr. 
Clark,  Physician  in  Ordinary  to  the  Qaeen  of  England,  ex- 
presses views  on  one  point  in  which  most  physicians  would 
coincide.  He  says:  ^^ There  is  no  greater  error  in  the  man- 
agement of  children  than  that  of  giving  them  animal  diet 
very  early.  By  persevering  in  the  use  of  an  over-stimula- 
tiog  diet,  the  digestive  organs  hecome  irritated,  and  the  va- 
rious secretions  immediately  connected  with  digestion,  and 
necessary  to  it,  are  diminished,  especially  the  biliary  secre- 
tion. Children  so  fed  become  very  liable  to  attacks  of  fe- 
ver andinflammation,  affecting  particularly  the  mucous  mem- 
branes ;  and  measles  and  other  diseases  incident  to  childhood 
are  generally  severe  in  their  attacks." 

The  result  of  the  treatment  of  the  inmates  of  the  Orphan 
Asylum  at  Albany  is  one  which  all  who  have  the  care  of 
young  children  should  deeply  ponder.  During  the  firat  six 
years  of  the  existence  of  this  institution,  its  average  number 
of  children  was  eighty.  For  the  first  three  years,  their  diet 
was  meat  once  a  day,  bread  of  fine  flour,  rice,  Indian  pud- 
dings, vegetables,  fruit,  and  milk.  Considerable  attention 
was  given  to  clothing,  fresh  air,  and  exercise ;  and  they 
were  bathed  once  in  three  weeks.  During  these  thre^ 
years,  from  four  to  six  children,  and  sometimes  more,  were 
continually  on  the  sick-list ;  one  or  two  assistant  nurses  were 
necessary;  a  physician  was  called  two  or  three  times  a 
week;  and  during  this  time  there  were  between  thirty  and 
forty  deaths.  At  the  end  of  this  period,  the  management 
was  changed  in  these  respects :  daily  ablutions  of  the  whole 
body  were  practiced ;  bread  of  unbolted  flour  was  substitu- 
ted for  that  of  fine  wheat ;  and  all  animal  food  was  banish- 
ed. More  attention,  also,  was  paid  to  clothing,  bedding, 
fresh  air,  and  exercise. 


402  THE   HOUSEKEEPER  AND  HBilLTHKSBPBR. 

The  result  \i^as,  that  the  nursery  was  vacated;  the  nurse 
and  physician  were  no  longer  needed ;  and  for  two  years 
not  a  single  case  of  sickness  or  death  occurred.  The  third 
year,  also,  there  were  no  deaths,  except  those  of  two  idiots 
and  one  other  child,  all  of  whom  were  new  inmates,  who  had 
not  been  subjected  to  this  treatment  ,  The  teachers  of  the 
children  also  testified  there  was  a  manifest  increase  of  intel- 
lectual vigor  and  activity,  while  there  was  much  less  irrita- 
bility of  temper. 

Let  parents,  nurses,  and  teachera  reflect  on  the  above 
statement,  and  bear  in  mind  that  stupidity  of  intellect,  and 
irritability-  of  temper,  as  well  as  ill  health,  are  often  caused 
by  the  mismanagement  of  the  nursery  in  regard  to  the  phys- 
ical training  of  children. 

There  is  probably  no  practice  more  deleterious  than  that 
of  allowing  children  to  eat  at  short  intervals  through  the 
day.  As  the  stomach  is  thus  kept  constantly  at  work,  with 
no  time  for  repose,  its  functions  are  deranged,  and  a  weak 
or  disordered  stomach  is  the  frequent  result.  Children 
should  be  required  to  keep  cakes,  nuts,  and  other  good 
things,  which  should  be  sparingly  giveo,  till  just  before  a 
meal,  and  then  they  will  form  a  pai*t  of  their  regular  supply. 
This  is  better  than  to  wait  till  after  their  hunger  is  satisfied 
by  food,  when  they  will  eat  the  niceties  merely  to  gratify  the 
palate,  and  thus  overload  the  stomach  and  interrupt  digestion. 

In  regard  to  the  intellectual  training  of  young  children, 
some  modification  in  the  common  practice  is  nece88ai*y,  with 
reference  to  their  physical  well-being.  More  care  is  need- 
ful in  providing  weU-ventiUxted  sch6o]-rooms,'aBd  in  securing 
more  time  for  sports  in  the  open  air  during  school  hours. 
It  is  very  important  to  most  mothers  that  their  youog  chil- 
dren should  be  removed  from  their  care  during  certain  school 
hours ;  and  it  is  very  useful  for  quite  young  children  to  be 
subjected  to  the  discipline  of  a  school,  and  to  intercourse 
with  other  children  of  their  own  age.  And,  with  a  suitable 
teacher,  it  is  no  matter  how  early  children  are  sent  to  school, 
provided  their  health  is  not  endangered  by  impure  air,  too 
much  confinement,  and  too  great  mental  stimulus,  which  is 
thei  chief  danger  of  the  present  age. 


THB  MANAGEMENT  OF  YOUNQ  CHILDBEK.  403 

In  regard  to  the  formation  of  the  moral  character,  it  has 
been  too  much  the  case  that  the  discipline  of  the  norsery 
has  consisted  of  disconnected  efforts  to  make  children  either 
do,  or  refrain  from  doing,  certain  particnlar  acts.  Do  this, 
and  be  rewarded ;  do  that,  and  be  punished ;  is  the  ordinary  . 
routine  of  family  gpyemment. . 

But  children  can  be  very  early  taught  that  their  happi- 
ness, both  now  and  hereafter,  depends  on  the  formation  of 
habifs  of  submission,  self-denial,  and  benevolence.  And 
all  the  discipline  of  the  nursery  can  be  conducted  by  par- 
ents, not  only  with  this  general  aim  in  their  own  minds,  but 
also  with  the. same  object  daily  set  before  the  minds  of  the 
children.  Whenever  their  wishes  are  crossed,  or  their  wills 
subdued,  they  can  be  taught  that  all  this  is  done,  not  merely 
to  please  the  parent,  or  to  secure  some  good  to  themselves 
or  to  others;  but  as  a  part  of  that  merciful  training  which 
is  designed  to  form  such  a  character,  and  such  habits,  that 
they  can  hereafter  find  their  chief  happiness  in  giving  up 
their  will  to  God,  and  in  living  to  do  good  to  othere,  instead 
of  living  merely  to  please  themselves. 

It  can  be  pointed  out  to  them,  that  they  must  always  sub- 
mit their  will  to  the  will  of  God,  or  else  be  continually  mis- 
erable. It  can  be  shown  how,  in  the  nursery,  and  in  the 
school,  and  through  all  future  days,  a  child  must  practice 
the  giving  up  of  his  will  and  wishes,  when  they  interfere 
with  the  rights  and  comfort  of  others ;  and  how  important 
it  is  early  to  learn  to  do  this,  so  that  it  will,  by  habit,  be- 
come easy  and  agreeable.  It  can  be  shown  how  children 
who  are  indulged  in  all  their  wishes,  and  who  are  never  ac- 
customed to  any  self-denial,  always  find  it  hani  to  refrain 
from  what  injures  themselves  and  others.  It  can  be  shown, 
also,  how  important  it  is  for  every  person  to  form  such  hab- 
its of  benevolence  toward  others  that  self-denial  in  doing 
good  will  become  easy. 

Parents  have  learned,  by  experience,  that  children  can  be 
constrained  by  authority  and  penalties  toiDxercise  self-denial, 
for  their  own  good,  till  a  habit  is  formed  which  makes  the 
duty  comparatively  easy.  For  example,  well-trained  chil- 
dren can  be  accustomed  to  deny  themselves  tenapting  arti- 


404      THB  nOUSBKXSPEB  AKD  HBIXJHKSXPBB. 

cles  of  food  which  are  injurious,  until  the  practice  ceases  to 
be  painful  and  difficult ;  whereas  an  indulged  child  would  be 
thrown  into  fits  of  anger  or  discontent  when  its  wishes  were 
crossed  by  restraints  of  this  kind. 

But  it  has  not  been  so  readily  discerned  that  the  same 
method  is  needful  in  order  to  form  a  habit  of  self-denial  in 
doing  good  to  others.  It  has  been  supposed  that  while  chil- 
dren must  be  forced,  by  atUhoriiyy  to  be  self-denying  and 
prudent  in  regard  to  their  own  happiness,  it  may  properly 'be 
left  to  their  own  discretion  whether  they  will  practice  any 
self-denial  in  doing  good  to  others.  But  the  more  difficult 
a  duty  is,  the  greater  is  the  need  of  parental  authority  in 
forming  a  habit  which  will  make  that  duty  easy. 

In  order  to  secure  this,  some  parents  turn  their  earliest 
efforts  to  this  object.  They  require  the  young  child  always 
to  offer  to  others  a  part  of  every  thing  which  it  receives ; 
always  to  comply  with  all  reasonable  requests  of  others  for 
service ;  and  often  to  practice  little  acts  of  self-denial,  in  or- 
der to  secure  some  enjoy tnent  for  others.  If  one  child  re-, 
ceives  a  present  of  some  nicety,  he  is  required  to  share  it 
with  all  his  brothers  and  sisters.  If  one  asks  his  brother  to 
help  him  in  some  study  or  sport,  and  is  met  with  a  denial, 
the  parent  requires  the  unwilling  child  to  act  benevolently, 
and  give  up  some  of  his  time  to  increase  his  brother's  enjoy- 
ment. Of  course,  in  snch  an  effort  as  this  discretion  must 
be  usied  as  to  the  frequency  and  extent  of  the  exercise  of  au- 
thority, to  induce  a  habit  of  benevolence.  But  where  par- 
ents deliberately  aim  at  such  an  object,  and  wisely  conduct 
their  instructions  and  discipline  to  secure  it,  very  much  will 
be  accomplished. 

In  regard  to  forming  habits  of  obedience,  there  have  been 
two  extremes,  both  of  which  need  to  be  shunned.  One  is, 
a  stem  and  unsympathizing  maintenance  of  parental  author- 
ity, demanding  perfect  and  constant  obedience,  without  any 
attempt  to  convince  a  child  of  the  propriety  and  benevo- 
lence of  the  requisitions,  and  without  any  manifestation  of 
sympathy  and  tenderness  for  the  pain  and  difficulties  which 
are  to  be  met.  Under  such  discipline,  children  grow  up  to 
fear  their  parents,  rather  than  to  love  and  trust  them  f  while 


TQB  kiLKAQEKSNT  OF  TOUKQ  CHILDBEN.  405 

some  of  .the  mQ9t  Valaable  principles  of  character  are  chilled, 
or  forever  blasted. 

In  shunning  this  danger,  other  parents  pass  to  the  oppo- 
site extreme.  They  put  themselves  too  much  on  the  foot- 
ing of  equals  with  their  children,  as  if  little  were  due  to 
superiority  of  relation,  age,  and  experience.  Nothing  is  ex- 
acted, without  the  implied  concession  that  the  child  is  to  be 
a  judge  of  the  propriety  of  the  requisition ;  and  reason  and 
persuasion  are  employed,  where  simple  command  and  obedi- 
ence would  be  far  better.  This  system  produces  a  most 
pernicious  influence.  Children  soon  perceive  the  position 
thus  allowed  them,  and  take  every  advantage  of  it.  They 
soon  learn  to  dispute  parental  requirements,  acquire  habits 
of  forwardness  and  conceit,  assume  disrespectful  manners 
and  address,  maintain  jtheir  views  with  peilinacity,  and 
yield  to  authority  with  ill-humor  and  resentment,  as  if  their 
rights  were  infringed  upon. 

The  medium  course  is  for  the  parent  to  take  the  attitude 
of  a  superior  in  age,  knowledge,  and  relation,  who  has  a  per- 
fect rig/U  to  control  every  action  of  the  child,  and  that,  too, 
without  giving  any  reason  for  the  requisitions.  "Obey  be- 
cause f/our  parent  commands^  is  always  a  proper  and  suffi- 
cient reason :  though  not  always  the  best  to  give. 

But  care  should  be  taken  to  convince  the  child  that  the 
parent  is  conducting  a  course  of  discipline  designed  to 
make  him  happy;  and  in  forming  habits  of  implicit  obedi- 
ence, self-denial,  and  benevolence,  the  child  should  have  the 
reasons  for  most  requisitions  kindly  stated ;  never,  however, 
on  the  demand  of  it  from  the  child,  as  a  right,  but  as  an  act 
of  kindness  from  the  parent. 

It  is  impossible  to  goyem  children  properly,  especially 
those  of  strong  and  sensitive  feelings,  without  a  constant 
effort  to  appreciate  the  value  which  they  attach  to  their  en- 
joyments and  pursuits.  A  lady  of  great  strength  of  mind 
and  sensibility  once  told  the  writer  that  one  of  the  most 
acute  periods  of  suffering  in  her  whole  life  was  occasioned 
by  the  burning  up  of  some  milkweed-silk  by  her  mother. 
The  child  had  found,  for  the  first  time,  some  of  this  shining 
and  beautiful  substance;  was  filled  with  4elight  at  her  dis- 


406  THE  HOUSBKSBPSB  AND  HXiXTHKBXPSB. 

covery;  was  arraDging  it  in  parcels;  planning  its  fatnre 
use,  and  her  pleasure  in  showing  it  to  her  companions — 
when  her  mother,  finding  it  strewed  over  the  carpet,  hastily 
swept  it  into  the  fire,  and  that,  too,  with  so  indifferent  an 
air,  that  the  child  fled  away,  almost  distracted  with  grief 
and  disappointment.  The  mother  little  realized  the  pain 
she  had  inflicted,  but  the  child  felt  the  unkindness  so  severe- 
ly that  for  several  days  her  mother  was  an  object  almost  of 
aversion.  While,  therefore,  the  parent  needs  to  carry  on  a 
steady  course,  which  will  oblige  the  child  always  to  give  up 
its  will,  whenever  its  own  good  or  the  greater  claim's  of  oth- 
ers require  it,  this  should  be  constantly  connected  with  the 
expression  of  a  tender  sympathy  for  the  trials  and  disap- 
pointments thus  inflicted. 

Those,  again,  who  will  join  with  children  and  help  them 
in  their  sports,  will  learn  by  this  mode  to  understand  the 
feelings  and  interests  of  childhood ;  while,  at  the  same  time, 
they  secure  a  degree  of  confidence  and  affection  which  can 
not  be  gained  so  easily  in  any  other 'way.  And  it  is  to  be 
regretted  that  parents. so  often  relinquish  this  roost  power- 
ful mode  of  influence  to  domestics  and  playmates,  who  often 
use  it  in  the  most  pernicious  manner.  In  joining  in  such 
sports,  older  persons  should  never  yield  entirely  the  atti- 
tude of  superiors,  or  allow  disrespectful  manners  or  address. 
And  respectful  deportment  is  never  more  cheerfully  ac- 
corded, than  in  seasons  when  young  hearts  are  pleased  and 
made  grateful  by  having  their  tastes  and  enjoyments  so  effi- 

.  ciently  promoted. 

Next  to  the  want  of  all  government,  the  two  most  fruit- 
ful sources  of  evil  to  children  are,  unsteadiness  in  govern- 
ment and  over-government.    Most  of  the  cases  in  which  the 

.  children  of  sensible  and  conscientious  parents  turn  out  bad- 
ly, result  from  one  or  the  other  of  these  causes.  In  cases 
of  unsteady  government,  either  one  parent  is  very  strict, 
severe,  and  unbending,  and  the  other  excessively  indulgent, 

^or  else  the  parents  are  sometimes  very  strict  and  decided, 
and'at  other  times  allow  disobedience  to  go  unpunished.  In 
such  cases,  children,  never  knowing'exactly  when  they  ban  es- 
cape with  impunity,  are  constantly  tempted  to  make  the  trial. 


THE  KANAOBKEirr  OP  YOUNQ  CHILDBBK.v.  407 

The  bad  effects  of  this  can  be  better  appreciated  by  ref- 
erence to  one  important  principle  of  the  mind.  It  is  fonnd 
to  be  auiversally  true  that,  when  any  object  of  desire  is  put 
entirely  beyond  the  reach  of  hope  or  expectation,  the  mind 
very  soon  ceases  to  long  for  it,  and  turns  to  other  objects 
of  pursuit.  But  so  long  as  the  mind  is  hoping  for  some 
good,  and  making  efforts  to  obtain  it,  any  opposition  excites 
iiTitable  feelings.  Let  the  object  be  put  entirely  beyond 
all  hope,  and  this  irritation  soon  ceases. 

In  consequence  of  this  principle,  those  children  who  are 
under  the  care  of  persons  of  steady  and  decided  government 
know  that,  whenever  a  thing  is  forbidden  or  denied,  it  is  out 
of  the  reach  of  hope; -the  desire,  therefore,  soon  ceases,  and 
they  turn  to  other  objects.  But  the  children  of  undecided, 
or  of  over-indulgent  parents,  never  enjoy  this  preserving  aid. 
When  a  thing  is  denied,  they  never  know  but  either  coax- 
ing may  win  it,  or  disobedience  secure  it  without  any  pen- 
alty, and  so  they  are  kept  in  that  state  of  hope  and  anxie- 
ty which  produces  irritation  and  tempts  to  insubordination, 
llie  children  of  very  indulgent  parents,  and  of  those  who 
are  undecided  and  unsteady  in  government,  are  very  apt  to 
become  fretful,  irritable,  and  fractious. 

Another  class  of  persons,  in  shunning  this  evil,  go  to  the 
other  extreme,  and  are  very  strict  and  pertinacious  in  regard 
to  every  requisition.  With  them,  fault-finding  and  penalties 
abound,  until  the  children  are  either  hardened  into  indiffer- 
ence of  feeling  and  obtuseness  of  conscience,  or  else  become 
excessively  irritable  or  misanthropic. 

It  demands  great  wisdom,  patience,  and  self-control,  to 
escape  these  two  extremes.  In  aiming  at  this,  there  are 
pi^rents  who  have  found  the  following  maxims  of  very  great 
value:  

First:  Avoid,.as  much  as  possible,  the  multiplication  of 
rules  and  absolute  commands.  Instead  of  this,  take  the  at- 
titude of  advisers.  '^My  child,  this  is  improper,  I  wish  yon 
would  remember  not  to  do  it.**  This  mode  of  address  an- 
swers for  all  the  little  acts  of  heedlessness,  awkwardness,  or 
ill-manners  so  frequently  occurring  with  children.  There 
are  cases  when  direct  and  distinct  commands  are  needful, 


408  TEA  HOITSEKBSPEB  AND  HSALTHKBXPBB. 

and  in  such  cases  a  penalty  for  disobedience  should  be  as 
steady  and  sare  as  the  laws  of  nature.  A  bairelin  the  nurs- 
ery, with  a  seat  in  it  for  the  child,  serves  for  a  gentle  and 
yet  very  effective  solitary  imprisonment,  and  is  a  most  salu- 
tary penalty.  Where  such  steadiness  and  certainty  of  pen- 
alty attend  disobedience,  children  no  more  think  of  diso- 
beying than  they  do  of  putting  their  fingers  into  a  burning 
candle. 

The  next  maxim  is,  Govern  by  rewards  more  than  by  pen- 
alties. Such  faults  as  willful  disobedience,  lying,  dishonesty, 
and  indecent  or  profane  language,  should  be  punished  with 
severe  penalties,  after  a  child  has  been  fully  instructed  in 
the  evil  of  such  practices.  But  all  the  constantly  recurring 
faults  of  the  nui-sery,  such  as  ill-humor,  quarreling,  careless- 
ness, and  ill-manners,  may,  in  a  great  many  cases,  be  regu- 
lated by  gentle  and  kind  remonstrances,  and  by  the  offer  of 
some  reward  for  persevering  efforts  to  form  a  good  habit. 
It  is  very  injurious  and  degrading  to  any  mind  to  be  kept 
under  the  constant  fear  of  penalties.  ZfOve  and  hope  are  the 
principles  that  should  be  mainly  relied  on  in  forming  the 
habits  of  childhood. 

Another  maxim,  and- perhaps  the  most  difficult,  is,  Do  not 
govern  by  the  aid  of  severe  and  angry  tones.  A  single  ex- 
ample will  be  given  to  illustrate  this  maxim.  A  child  is  dis- 
posed to  talk  and  amuse  itself  at  table.  The  mother  requests 
it  to  be  silent,  except  when  needing  to  ask  for  food,  or  when 
spoken  to  by  its  older  friends.  It  constantly  forgets.  The 
mother,  instead  of  rebuking  in  an  impatient  tone,  says,  **  My 
child,  you  must  remember  not  to  talk.  I  will  remind  you 
of  it  four  times  more,  and  after  that,  whenever  you  forget, 
you  must  leave  the  table  and  wait  till  we  are  done."  If  the 
mother  is  steady  in  her  government,  it  is  not  prebable  that 
she  will  have  to  apply  this  slight  penalty  more  than  once 
or  twice.  This  method  is  far  more  effectual  than  the  use  of 
sharp  and  severe  tone^,  to  secure  attention  and  recollection, 
and  often  answers  the  purpose  as  well  as  offering  some 
reward. 

The  writer  has  been  in  some  families  where  the  most  effi- 
cient and  st€(ady  government  has  been  sustained  without  the 


THE  MANAGEMSirr  OF  YOUNG  CHILDSBN.  409 

n^e  of  a  cross  or  angry  tope ;  and  in  others,  where  a  faY  less 
efficient  discipline  Was  kept  up,  by  frequent  severe  rebukes 
a^rd  ^ngry  remonstrances.  In  the  first  case,  the  children  fol- 
io wi$d  the  example  set  th^em,  and  seldom  used  severe  tones 
to  each  other;  in  the  flatter,  the  method  employed  by  the 
parents  was. imitated:  by  the  children,  and  cross  words  Bnd 
angry  tones  rebounded. from  moming  till  night  in  every  por- 
tion of  the  household. 

Another  important  maxim:  \fij  Try  to  keep  children  in  a 
happy  state  of  mind.  Every  one  kno  w6,  by  ezperiencej  that 
it  is  easier  to  do  right  and  submit  to  rule  when  cheerful  and 
happy,  than  when  irritated.  This  is  peculiarly  true  of  chil- 
dren ;  and  a  wise  mother,  when  she  finds  her  child  fretful 
and  impatient,  and  thus  constantly  doing  wrong,  will  often 
remedy  the  whole  difficulty  by  telling  some  amusing  story, 
or  by  getting  the  child  engaged  in  some  amusing  sport. 
This  strongly  shows  the  importance  of  learning  to  govern 
children  without  the  employment  of  angry  tones,  which  al- 
ways produce  irritation. 

Children  of  active,  heedless  temperament,  or  those  who 
are  odd,  awkward,  or  unsuitable  in  their  remarks  and  de- 
portment, are  often  essentially  injured  by  a  want  of  patience 
an'd  self-control  in  those  who  govern  them.  Such  children 
often  possess  a  morbid  sensibility  which  they  strive  to  con- 
ceal, or  a  desire  of  love  and  approbation,  which  preys  like  a 
famine  on  the  souL  And  yet  they  become  objects  of  ridi- 
cule and  rebuke  to -almost  every  member  of  the  family,  until 
their  sensibilities  are  tortured  into  obtuseness  or  misanthro- 
py. Such  children,  above  all  others,  need  tenderness  and 
sympathy.  A  thousand  instances  of  mistake  or  forgetfulness 
should  be  passed  over  in  silence,  while  opportunities  for  com- 
mendation and  encouragement  should  be  diligently  sought. 

In  regard  to  the  formation  of  habits  of  self-denial  in  child- 
hood, it  is  astonishing  to  see  how  parents  who  are  very  sen- 
sible often  seem  to  regard  this  matter.  Instead  of  inuring 
their  children  to  this  duty  in  early  life,  so  that  by  habit  it 
may  be  made  easy  in  -after-days,  they  seem  to  be  studiously 
seeking  to  cut  them  off  from  every  chance  to  secure  such 
a  preparation.    Every  wish  of  the  child  is  studiously  grati- 

18 


410  THE.  HOUSEKEXPSB  AHID  BEALTHKSXFBB. 

fied;'aDd^  where  a  necessity  exists  of  croissing  its  wishes, 
some  compensatiDg  pleasure  is  offered  in  retnm.  Sach  par-, 
ents  often  maintain  that  nothing  shall  be  put  on  their  table 
which  their  children  may  not  join  them  in  eating.  Bat 
.where/ so  easily  and  surely  as  at  the  daily  ttieal,  can  that 
habit  of  selMenial  be  formed  which  is  so  needful  in  gorem- 
ing  the  appetites,  and  which  children  must  adquire,  or  be 
mined?  The  food  which  is  proper  for  grown  persons  is 
often  unsuitable  foi*  children ;  and  this  is  a  sufficient  reason 
for  accustoming  them  to  see  others  partake  of  delicacies 
which  they  must  not  share.  Requiring  children  to  wait  till 
others  are  helped,  and  to  refrain  from  conversation  at  table, 
except  when  addressed  by  their  elders,  is  another  mode  of 
forming  habits  of  self-denial  and  self-control  Requiring 
them  to  help  others  first,  and  to  offer  the  best  to  others,  has 
a  similar  influence. 

In  forming  the  moral  habits  of  children,  it  is  wise  to  take 
into  account  the  peculiar  temptations  to  which  they  are  to 
be  exposed.  The  people  of  this  nation  are  eminently  a  traf* 
ficking  people;  and  the  present  standard  of  honesty, as  to 
trade  and  debts,  is  very  low,  and  every  year  seems  sinking 
still  l6wer.  It  is,  therefore,  pre-eminently  important  that 
children  should  be  trained  to  strict  honesty ^  both  in  word 
and  de^d.  It  is  n6t  merely  teaching  children  to  sToid  ab- 
solute lying,  which  is  needed:  aU  kinds  of  deceit  should  be 
guarded  against,  and  alllcinds  of  little  dishonest  practices 
'  be  strenuously  opposed.  A  child  should  be  brought  up  with 
the  determined  principle  never  to  run  in  debty  but  to  be  con- 
tent to  live  in  a  humbler  way,  in  order  to  secure  that  true 
independence  which  should  be  the  noblest  distinction  of  an 
American  citizen. 

Quite  as  important  in  family  and  school  training  is  enforc- 
ing the  laici  that  protects  charactery  which  is  more  precious 
than  gold,  while  the  most  cruel  sufferings  result  from  want 
of  honor  and  care  in  this  respect.  Especially  is  the  enforce- 
ment of  this  law  important  at  this  period,  when  there  are 
such  constant  and  desti'uctive  examples  of  its  violation  both 
by  the  press  and'  by  general  practice. 
'*     This  law  of  benevolence  and  rectitude  is  this:  every  per- 


THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  YOUNG  CHILDSXK.  411 

son  who  has  established  a  fair  character  in  any  direction 
should  have  it  upheld  by  a//,  as  a  protection  against  nn- 
proved .  rumors  that  impeach  .this  character.  Such  rumors 
should  altoays  he  met  with  the  question,  Is  it  proved  hj 
proper  evidence  ?  If  it  is  not,  then  it  is  a  slander,  and  who- 
ever aids  to  circulate  it  should  be  treated  as  an  abettor  of 
slander. 

To  illustrate  this,  take  a  not  uncommon  case:  A  lady, 
who  for  thirty  years  held,  the  highest  character  for  purity, 
propriety,  and  good  principles,  was  accused  by  a  man  of 
high  position  of  following  him  with  repeated  solicitations 
for  marriage.  He  offered  no  proof  but  his  assertion,  which 
was  nullified  by  her  denial.  In  this  case,  the  man  should 
have  been  treated  as  a  slanderer,  and  those  who  aided  in  cir- 
culating his  story  as  abettors  of  slander. 

Every  woman  is  especially  interested  in  sustaining  this 
law,  for  it  is  a  dreadful  mortification  and  disgrace  to  a  deli- 
cate and  refined  woman  to  have  certain  questions  even  con- 
nected with  her  name.  Not  less  so  is  it  to  a  clergyman  of 
keen  sensibilities.  And  it  is  an  insult  to  ask  a  person  tbus 
abused  to  furnish  denials  and  defense.  .Established  char<MCter 
should  protect  both  the  person  thus  maligned  and  'also  their 
nearest  friends  from  hearing,  much  less  from  noticing,  such, 
mean  and  disgraceful  assaults. 

There  is  no  more  important  duty  devolving  upon  an  edu- 
cator than  the  cultivation  of  habits  of  ipodesty  and  proprie- 
ty in  young  children.  All  indecorous  words  or  deportment 
should  be  carefully  restrained,  and  delicacy  and  reserve 
studiously  cherished.  It  is  a  common  notion,  that  it  is  im- 
portant to  ;sequ  re  these  virtues  to  one  sex  more  than  to  the 
other ;  and,  by  a  stninge  inconsistency,  the  sex  most  exposed 
to  danger  is  the  one  selected  as  least  needing  care.  Tet  a 
wise. mother  will  be  especially  careful  that  her  sons  are 
trained  to  modesty  and  purity  of  mind. 

The  rule  which  should  gujde  on  this  subject  is  this: 
Whenever  health,  life,  or  duty  demand  it,  all  connected  with 
such  topics  and  duties  should  be  spoken  of  and  done  with- 
out embarrassment  or  restraint ;  but  in  no  other  circum- 
stances.   Thus  in  the  Bible,  instruction  on  the  dangers  nnd 


412  THX   HOUSSSLSBPSB  AND  HSALTHKSXPSIL 

daties  connected  with  our  bodily  organization  are  B^t  forth 
in  plain  and  simple  language,  to  be  read  in  public  worship 
'and  in  private  by  alL  So,  in  medical,  surgical,  and  nursing 
duties,  the  same  freedom  is  demanded,  and  disapproval  or 
opposition  are  deemed  false  modesty  and  foolish  fastidious- 
ness. But  where  there  are  no  such  demands  for  health  and 
safety,  then  conversation,  poetry,  pictures,  jokes,  and  coarse 
allusions  are  vulgar,  indecent,  and  sinful. 

Few  mothers  are  sufficiently  aware  of  the  dreadful  penal- 
ties which  often  result  from  indulged  impurity  of  thought 
If  children,  in  future  life,  can  be  preserved  from  licentious 
associates,  it  is  supposed  that  tbeir  safety  is  secured.  But 
the  records  of  our  insane  retreats,  and  the  pages  of  medical 
writers,  teach  that  even  in  solitude,  and  without  being  aware 
of  the  sin  or  the  danger,  children  may  inflict  evils  on  them-^ 
selves  which  not  linfrequently  terminate  in  disease,  delirium, 
and  death. 

There  is  no  necessity  for  explanations  on  this  point  any 
further  than  this,  that  certain  parts  of  the  body  are  not  to 
be  touched  except  for  purposes  of  cleanliness,  and  that  the 
'  most  dres^dful  suffering  comes  from  disobeying  these  com- 
mands. So  in  regard  to  practices  and  sins  6f  which  a  young 
child  will  sometimes  inquire,  the  wise  parent  will  say,  that 
this  is  what  children  can  not  understand,  and  about  which 
they  must  not  talk  or  ask  questions.  And  they  should  be 
told  that  it  is  always  a  bad  sign  when  children  talk  on  mat- 
ters which  parents  call  vulgar  and  indecent,  and  that  the 
company  of  such  children  should  be  avoided.  Disclosing 
details  of  wrong-doing  to  young  and  curious  children,  often 
leads  to  the  very  evils  feared.  But  parents  and  teachers, 
in  this  age  of  danger,  should  be  well  informed  and  watch- 
ful; for  it  is  not  unfrequently  the  case  that  servants  and 
school-mates  will  teach  young  children  practices  which  ex- 
haust the  nervous  system,  and  bring  on  paralysis,  mania,  and 
death. 

But  there  are  social  dangers  during  and  after  childhood 
which  demand  from  mothers  and  teachers  such  instructions 
as  are  rarely  given ;  and  yet,  for  the  want  of  it,  the  most 
dreadful  vices  and  sufferings  ensue. 


.THB  IfAKAGEKSNT  OF  TOUNG  CHILDREN.  413 

The  evils  and  dangers  here  indicated  can  never  be  ander- 
stood  or  appreciated  till  mothers  and  teachers  gain  that 
knowledge  of  the  construction  of  the  body,  and  the  dangers 
connected  with  duties  of  the  family  state,  which  is  now  con- 
fined alniost  entirely  to  the  medical  profession,  while  phy- 
sicians', by  false  customs  and  false  modesty  on  the  part  of 
women,  are  constrained  to  a  reticence  which  is  dangerous 
and  often  fataL  The  difficulty  can  be  wisely  met,  not  by 
public  lectures  or  by  pulpit  ministries.  It  is  in  the  priva- 
cy of  the  nursery  and  the  school-room  that  well-instructed 
mothers  and  teachers  must  train  the  young  to  meet  these 
dangers,  by  all  needful  knowledge  and  habits  of  intelligent 
self-controL 


414      THB  HOUSBKSKPBB  AND  HBALTHKXSPBB. 


CHAPTER  XXVm. 

FAMILT  BEUGIOUS  TRAINING. 

There  are  few  women  who  have  charge  of  servants  or  of 
children,  in  the  family  and  school,  who  do  not  suffer  anxie- 
ty and  perplexity,  and  sometimes  remorse,  in  attempts  to 
perform  their  duty  as  chief  ministers  of  religion  in  the  fam- 
ily state.  The  following  suggestions  may  aid  in  diminishing 
these  difficulties : 

The  main  foundation  of  these  troubles  is  the  endless  di- 
versities of  instruction  as  to  what  is  right  in  character  and 
conduct,  and  especially  as  to  what  is  taught  in  the  Bible  on 
these  points.  For  there  are  few  practical  questions  on  which 
persons  of  equal  intelligence  and  moral  worthy  are  not  in  an- 
tagonism as  to  what  is  the  right;  and  all  the  Christian  sects 
are  in  equal  controversy  as  to  what  are  the  teachings  of  the 
Bible.  And  yet  every  housekeeper,  every  mother,  and  ev- 
ery teacher,  practically,  must  decide  these  questions  for  her- 
self and  her  dependants,  when,  in  the  kitchen,  nursery,  and 
school-room  she  teaches  what  actions  and  feelings  are  right 
or  wrong,  or  when  she  decides  to  what  religious  denomina- 
tion she,  and  those  she  can  influence,  shall  belong. 

There  is  one  consoling  consideration  in  view  of  these  con- 
flicting opinions,  and  that.is,  that  nothing. tends  more  direct- 
ly to  cultivate  both  the  intellect  and  moral  feelings,  than 
the  study,  reflection,  and  discussion  resulting  from  this  try- 
ing dilemma.  For,  were  every  human  being  infallibly  di- 
rected by  a  superior  mind  as  to  every  step  and  every  decis- 
ion, it  would  greatly  diminish  mental  effort,  and  the  moral 
discipline  of  life.  All  would  remain  as  mere  children,  guided 
and  upheld  at  every  step.  Instead  of  this,  the  whole  moral 
and  intellectual  world  is  kept  vigorous,  earaest,  and  bright 
by  conflict  and  discussion,  while  many  moral  virtues  are  cul- 
tivated by  this  turmoil. 
.     The  difficulties  thus  encountered  may  be  much  reduced 


FAHILT  BEUOIOUS  TRAINING^  415 

by  gaining  clear  ideas  as  to  what  U  is  which  constitutes 
volantary  action  right.  .  To  settle  this  more  clearly,  we  in- 
trodace  again  a  portion  of  Chapter  XXV.,  with  additional 
considerations.  •  The  definition  ofrighty  in  its  widest  use,  is 
*'  anyrule  or  method  which  will  best  accomplidi^any  plan  or 
design. '*  It  is  a  fact,  also,  that  there  is  a  creatM  intuitive 
belief  in  all  rational  minds  that  happiness-making,  on  the 
largest  scale  possible  is  the  end  or  purpose  for  which  all 
things  are  made. 

This  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  whenever  men  perceive 
that  a  given  course  will  secure  the  most  and  the  best  good 
for  both  the  individual  and  for  society,  all  decicle  that  it  is^ 
right..  The  main  difficulty  is  in  discovering  what  is  the 
best  for  ^U  concerned. 

There  are  two  ways  in  which  mankind  learn  this.  The 
first  is,  by  the  trial  of  experience.  Man  learns  **  to  know 
good  and  evil"  by  good  lost  or  gained,  and  evil  suffered. 
This  experimenting  has  been  going  on  in  all  ages,  each  gen- 
eration gaining  by  the  experience  of  the  past.  The  other 
mode  is,  by  revelations  from  God  made  in  human  language, 
and  to  be  interpreted  by  the  common  rules  of  the  language 
employed. 

But  one  distinction  is  very  important,  and  that  is,  the 
two  relations  in  which  an  action  is  to  be  judged  as  right. 
Viz.,  first,  with  reference  to  the  action  as  best  for  all  con- 
cerned, and  next  in  reference  to  the  motive  or  intention  of 
the  actor.  For  it  is  best  and  right  that  every  mind  should 
choose  what  it  believes  to  be  right;  and  thus  it  often  hap-, 
pens,  that  the  saitie  action  is  right  as  to  motive  or  intention, 
and  wrong  as  to  actual  result  So,  also,  an  action  may  be 
right  in  tendency  and  result,  while  it  is  wrong  as  to  mo- 
tive. There  is  often  much  confusion  from  not  recognizing 
this  distinction. 

There  are  many  cases  where  experience  will  not  avail  in 
deciding  what  is  best  for  all,  especially  in  reference  to  our 
prospects  after  death,  and  our  relations  and  duties  toward 
our  Creator.  For  all  this  we  are  dependent  on  revelations 
made  in  human  language,  to  be  interpreted  by  the  rules  of 
language.    And  as  almost  all  words  have  more  than  one 


416-      THB  H0U8EKSXPEB  AND  HXALTHKSXPSB. 

literal  meaning,  and  are  also  used  sometimes  in  a  literal,  and 
sometimes  in  a  figurative  sense,  the  chief  labor  in  gaining 
Qod's  teaching  is  in  applying  rightly  the  laws  of  langai^g^.; 

One  difficulty  in  this  attempt  is  the  fact  that  the.  true 
interpretation  of  language  depends  greatly  on  the  habits 
of  thought,  the  prejudices  of  education,  and  the  influence  of 
excited  feelings  and  wishes.  So  strong  are  these  influQAcctis 
in  the  common  affairs  of  life,  that  it  has  been  a  maxim  of 
courts  that  a  man  is  not  qualified  to  testify  where  his  own 
interests  are  concerned.'  And  in  all  daily  affaii-s,  men  al- 
ways make  allowances  for  deviation  from  a  true  judgment 
in  what  greatly  interests  the  feelings.  This  accounts  for  the 
fact  that  such  a  variety  of  interpretations  are  put  on  the 
plain  and  natural  meaning  of  the  Bible,  when  such  a  mean- 
ing controverts  favorite  opinions  or  intei*fer6s  with  impor- 
tant plans  or  hopes.  It  is  not  because  it  is  difficult  to  inter- 
pret the  Bible  correctly  by  the  proper  use  of  those  rules 
men  employ  in  daily  life ;  it  is  because  men's  feelings,  preju- 
dices, and  wishes  interfere.  No  less  is  it  the  case  that  the 
bias  of  feeling  constantly  sways  the  judgment  of  men  in 
deciding  what  is  right  and  best,  where  experience  and  rea- 
son are  the  chief  guides. 

Another  embarrassment  in  gaining  the  true  teachings  of 
the  Bibltf  is  the  fact  that  the  doctrines  of  churches  and 
creeds  have  consisted  extensively  of  philosophical  theories 
to  explain  the  how  and  the  ijohy  of  the  facts  made  known  by 
revelation;  and  men  have  been  educated  to  believe  that 
these  theories  should  be  accepted  as  authoritative,  the  same 
as  the  revealed  facts,  and  thiis  feeling  and  prejudice  inter- 
fere. For  example,  that  the  sacrifice  and  death  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  needful  to  secure  i*edemption  to  our  race  from 
sin  and  its  penalties,  is  the  revealed  fact.  Why  it  was 
needed,  and  how  it  avails  to  save  men,  is  a  question  which 
men  have  invented  various  theories  to  answer  and  explain, 
and  belief  in  these  theor^^s  has  been  deemed  as  sacred  and 
obligatory  as  if  they  were  matters  of  revelation. 

Another,  and  the  chief  difficulty,  is  the  fact  that  the  great 
mass,  even  of  educated  minds,  have  never  been  trained  to 
use  the  rules  of  language  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Bible 


FAMILT  BSLIGIOUS  TRAINING.  417 

as  they  do  in  common  life.  Although  it  is  the  great  and 
distinctive  principle  of  Protestantism  that  every  man  is  to 
form  his  own  creed,  and  to  interpret  the  Bible  for  himself, 
responsible  not  to  man  but  to  Gk>d  alone,  the  common  peo- 
ple have  not  been  trained  properly  to  use  this  right  and 
privilege.  And  this  is  not  because  it  is  not  as  easy  and 
practical  a  matter  as  any  other  duty  requiring  intellectual 
culture,' practical  exercises,  and  an  honest  desire  for  the 
truth.  In  consequence  of  this,  much  that  is  only  figurative 
in  the  Bible  has  been  received  as  literal,  and  repellent  doc- 
trines thus  established. 

It  is  probable  that  no  one  thing  could  so  effectually,  pro- 
mote unity  of  opinion  among  churches,  and  consequent  har- 
mony of  iEU^tion,  as  the  proper  training  of  the*  common  peo- 
ple in  the  nursery  and  school-room  to  use  the  laws  of  lan- 
guage with  the  Bible  as  they  do  in  common  life.  Such 
training  would  also  bring  confidence  and  peace  to  minds  so 
extensively  perplexed  by  supposed  contradictions  as  to  its 
teachings.  It  was  by  this  method  that  the  writer  overcame 
difficulties,  and  gained  such  confidence  and  peace  as  can  be 
secured  in  no  other  way.  Without  stating  the  results  of 
her  own  efforts  in  interpreting  the  Bible,  a  few  examples  will 
follow,  to  illustrate  the  position  that  any  woman  of  ordinary 
capacity  can  find  relief  and  comfort  by  the  same  method. 

We  will  take^  first,  the  great  question  of  this  life.  What 
are  our  dangers  in  the  future  life,  and  what  must  we  do  to 
be  saved  from  them? 

The  following  is  a  brief  statement  of  the  views  of  man- 
kind on  this  question.  Among  the  heathen,  especially  among 
the  wisest  and  best,  it  was  held  that  the  virtuous  would 
fare  better  after  death  than  the  wicked.  The  seventy-third 
Psalm  shows  in  most  terrific  language  the  misery  of  the 
wicked,  and  as  clearly  the  blessedness  of  the  righteous  at 
death,  as  believed  by  the  Jews  in  all  ages. 

Among  Christian  nations,  a  large  class  have  no  definite 
opinions  on  this  question,  but  by  their  practice  assume  that 
there  is  no  danger  at  all,  and  so  give  all  their  thoughts  and 
aims  to  the  things  of  this  life. 

A  lai^e  class  who  profess  to  obtain  their  opinions  from 

18* 


418      THB  HOUSBRBBPBR  AND  HBALTHKBBPBB. 

the  Bible  hold  that,  either  at  death  or  at  Bome  period  after, 
all  mankind  will  be  forever  good  and  happy  in  heaven. 

Another  large  class -hold  that  a  portion  of  mankind  will, 
at  death^  go  to  everlasting  misery,  to  be  tormented  with 
literal  fire  and  brimstone,  and  that  all  the  rest  will  finally 
go  to  heaven;  but  previously  the  good  must  suffer  tempo- 
rary punishment  for  sins  committed  here — this  period  of 
suffering  being  more  or  less  diminished  by  penances,  and  by 
the  sacrifices  and  good  works  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  good 
on  earth. 

Another  class  believe  that  at  death  every  human  being 
passes  directly  to  perfect  happiness  in  heaven,  or  to  dread- 
ful sufferings  in  hell  which  are  never  to  end.  One  part  of 
this  class  hold  that  the  punishment  is  literally  existing  for- 
ever in  fire  and  brimstone,  and  the  other  part  hold  that  the 
suffering  wHl  be  the  natural  result  of  an  endless  character 
that  insures  misery,  and  that  the  language  of  the  Bible  ex- 
presses this  figuratively.  . 

Finally,  another  class  hold  that,  in  the  life  to  come,  hap- 
piness and  misery  depend  on  character/  that  a  portion  of  our 
.  race  in  this  life  forms  one  that  insures  immediate  and  end- 
less happiness  at  death ;  that  another  portion  form  a  char- 
acter that  involves  great  suffering  after  death ;  and  that  in 
some  cases  this  character  is  perpetuated  forever,  involving 
consequent  endless  suffering.  But  they  claim  that  the  Bible 
nowhere  teaches  that  with  ail  mankind  character  is  fixed  at 
death.  Instead  of  this,  what  intervenes  between  death  and 
the  final  day,  when  the  righteous  and  wicked  are  to  be  re- 
clothed  in  bodies  and  forever  separated,  is  left  in  wise  dark- 
ness. 

but  the  most  striking  fact  in  these  diverse  opinions  is,  that 
Christian  sects  all  agree  that  the  number  who  will  escape 
fi*om  whatever  dangers  there  may  be,  depends  upon  the  self- 
denying  labor  and  sacrifices  of  the  followers  of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  view  of  these  facts,  the  first  duty  of  every  housekeeper, 

.  of  every  mother,  and  of  every  teacher,  is  to  decide  which  of 

these  views  as  to  the  dangers  awaiting  .us  all  at  death  i^re 

tBught  by  Jesus  Christ  and  his  apostles^    For  if  it  be  true 

thiit  aoholars,  children j  and  wswramta  ttrost  be  trained  to  self- 


FAMILY  BELIOIOnS  TRAISniQ.  419 

sacrifice  and  self-denying  labor,  in  order  to  save  themselves 
and.  their  fellow-men  from  dreadful  risks  and  dangers  in  the 
life  to  come,  all  the  practical  duties  of  daily,  life  will  be  di- 
verse, from  the  methods  pursued  by  those  who  believe  in  no 
such  dangers. 

To  illustrate  this,  suppose  several  families  recently  settled 
'nea)r  a  deep,  unexplored  wood  in  a  new  country.  The  chil- 
dren ramble  in  its  shades,  and  every  day  find  new  beauties 
and  curiosities  to  attract  them  farther  into  its  reserves.  On 
a  certain  day  a  man  arrives  from  a  distiant  place,  all  torn 
and  bleeding  in  efforts  to  reach  them.  He  tells  t)iem  that 
there  is  a  frightful  ravine  in  the  unexplored  depths;  that 
pleasant  but  slippery  paths  lead  to  it ;  that  it  is  the  resort 
of  fierce  and  cruel  animals,  which  come  forth  and  roam 
through  its  beautiful  shades,  and  that  there  is  no  safety  but 
in  keeping  the  children  from  entering  these  dangerous 
woods. 

Now  these  points  would  bc^clear  to  common  sense:  first, 
that  the  man,  though  an  entire  stranger,  is  a  benevolent  per- 
son, because  he  evidently  has  suffered  severely  to  save; 
next,. that,  he  tells  what  he  believes  is  the  truth,  or  he  would 
not  encounter. this  suffering;  and  lastly,  as  he  says  he  has 
long  lived  in  that  vicinity,  that  he  has  had  the  means  of 
knowing  the  tnlth,  and  his  representations  are  to  be  re- 
ceived as.  true.    : 

Suppose,  then,  one  family  have  perfect  faith  in  this  messen- 
ger, they  will  use  every  possible  precaution  to  avoid  the 
dangers  revealed.    Suppose  another  family  is  skeptical  about* 
the  danger,  and  yet  has  some  fear  it  may  be  true,  they  would 
\  use  some  care,  and  yet  not  be  so  anxious  and  earnest  as  the 
family  which  had  perfect  faith.    Suppose  another  family  to 
\  have  no  belief  at  all  as  to  the  danger,  they  would  allow  their 
]  children,  to  roam  as  before,  and  give  no  care  or  thought  to 
\the  matter.    This  illustrates  the  position  that  belief  in  dan- 
;er  modifies  all  rules  of  duty,  and  that  faith  is  proved  by 
ten's  conduct  or  works. 

In  like  manner  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  who  came  in  suffering 
aVd  sorrow  to  tell  of  dangers  in  the  unseen  world,  is  proved 
bythe  way  men  live.    If  they  have  perfect  faith  inthe  dan- 


420  THB  H0U8SKXXPEB  iLND  HSALTHKKSPBB. 

gers  he  reverals,  then  the  most  earnest  effotts  to  save  them- 
selves and  their  fellow-men  from  ignorance  and  sin  will  fol- 
low. If  they  have  little  faith,  they  will  make  less  exertions; 
if  thejr  have  no  fears  for  the  future  life,' all  their  plans  will 
terminate  in  gaining  the  good  things  of  this  life  for  them- 
selves and  those  they  love,  sure  that  all  the  rest  of  mankind 
will  be  happy  when  they  die,  and  that  their  troubles  here 
will  only  serve  to  make  rest  and  enjoyment  the  greater  in 
.the  coming  life. 

The  following  is  the  method  by  which  any  woman  may 
decide  what  is  truth  on  this  great  question,  so  as  to  be  at 
rest. 

It  is  first  assumed  that  the  Bible  is  written  for  the  com- 
mon people,  and  is  to  be  interpreted  by  the  rules  of  language 
men  employ  in  common  life,  which,  briefly,  are  these : 

The  first  is,  all  expressions  are  literal  when  they  do  not 
contradict  the  known  nature  of  things,  or  known  facts,  or  the 
known  opinions  of  the  writer;'  in  which  latter  case  .they  usu- 
ally Jtre  figurative,  but  have  as  definite  a  meaning  aa  if  liter- 
al. For  example, "  everlasting  *'  and  "  forever  ^  mean  **  time 
without  end,"  unless  contrary  to  known  facts,  or  the  known 
nature  of  things,  or  the  known, opinions  of  the  writer.  So 
'* punishment"  cUwaya  signifies  **pain  consequent  either  on 
.violating  a  natural  or  some  instituted  law." 

The  second'rule  is,  when  any  expression  has  several  signi- 
fications, that  18  to  be  taken  as  the  right  one  which  has  the 
most  evidence  in  its  favor.  Let  any  woman  of  ordinary  abil- 
»ity  and  education  apply  these  rules  to  the  texts  on  this  sub- 
ject, and  she  will  find  little  difficulty  in  deciding  what  the 
Bible  teaches  as  the  dangers  of  the  future  life. 

Another  example  will  be  given  on  a  subject  which  causes 
great  anxiety  and  perplexity,  and  which  may  be  relieved  by 
the  same  method:  The  question  is.  Why  does  a  Being  of  in- 
finite power,  wisdom,  and  goodness  allow  the  dreadful  mis-/ 
eries  that  oppress  mankind,  and,  still  more,  why  will  he  allow/ 
sin  and  suffering  to  reach  through  eternal  ages  ?  Many  sup-y 
pose  that  revelation  gives  no  reply  to  this  longing  inquiry. 

But  when  we  take  the  language  of  the  Bible  in  its  commi 
and  literal  sense,  we  find  a  satisfactory  answer.    Tor  perfect 


FAMILY  BELIGIOirS  TBAINIKO.  421 

wisdom  is  *'  that  which  chooses  the  best  means  for  the  bes$ 
endSj*  and  perfect  benevolence  is  *Hhat  which  seeks  to  make 
the  most  possible  happiness  with  the  least  possible  sufTering." 
Therefore,  when  God  reveals  himself  as  perfect  in  wisdom 
and  goodness,  it  is  the  same  as  saying  that  he  has  done,  and 
will  do,  aU  in  hie  power  to  save  from  sin  and  saffering.  Al- 
mighty power  does  not  signify  power  to  work  contradictions 
or  absurdities ;  and  all  theologians  teach  that  there  is  a  lim- 
itation of  power  in  the  ncUvre  of  things.  Thus  some  say  God 
can  not  forgive  sin.  without  an  atonement;  others,  that  he 
can  not  lie ;  others,  that  he  ^  can  not  govern  the  stars  by  the 
ten  commandments,  nor  free  agents  by  the  attraction  of 
gravity.^'  And  God  says  of  his  people  Israel,^  What  could 
I  have  done  that  I  have  not  done  ^  to  secure  their  obedience. 

God's  inability  to  save  all  is  expressly  stated  when  he  de- 
clares that  he  is  ^  not  willing  that  any  should  perish.'*  The 
only  proof  of  want  of  power  to  do  something  is  to  wUl  it 
done,  and  yet  it  remains  undone.  And  God  declares  that  he 
is  not  willing  to  have  any  one  perish.  Still  more  effectively 
is  this  proved  by  his  suffering  and  that  of  his  dear  Son,  when 
Christ  came.  No  sane  mind  ever  suffers  pain  to  gain  an  end 
when  it  could  be  gained  without  suffering;  and  the  revela-^ 
tion  of  God  as  having  suffered  so  greatly,  is  the  highest  proof 
that  can  be  given  {bat  his  power  is  limited  in  controlling  free 
agents  by  the  very  nature  of  free  agency.  In  his  hour  of  ex- 
tremity, our  Lord  prayed,"7jrt^  bepossibUy  remove  this  cup  ;^ 
thus  indicating  that  almighty  power  signifies  power  to  do  all 
possible  things,  and  that  some  things  are  not  possible  even 
to  God. 

The  first  question  being  settled,  that  there  are  dangers  to 
be  met  after  death,  the  next  is, '*  What  must  we  do  to  be 
saved  r 

Here  the  Christiftn  churches  are  divided,  and  on  a  funda- 
mental point,  which  brie^fly  is  this:  One  class  claims  that 
God  has  the  power  to  create  minds  so  that,  without  any  pre- 
vious knowledge  or  training,  they  shall  not  only  know  what 
is  right,  but  have  a  controlling  principle  that  in  all  cases  will 
secure  right  choice,  and  that  the  minds  of  aH  angels  and  of 
our  first  parents  were  made  on  this  pattern.  But  owing  to 
Adam's  sin,  all  infants  are  bom  without  this  nerfect  or^nn- 


422  THE  HOtJSBKESPXB  AND  HBALTHl^EXPBB. 

izatioD,  and  so  depraved  that  eternal  Bin  and  soffering  in 
hell  is  the  portion  of  all  who  are  not  regenerated  before  they 
die,  while  there  is  no  certain  way  revealed  by  which  parents 
can  insure  this  b(k>n  for  all  their.offspring. 

The  other  class  claim  that  the  assumption  that  Ood  can, 
or  ever  did,  create  minds  on  this  pattern,  is  a  theological  the- 
ory for  which  no  evidence  exists  in  revelation  or  in  nature ; 
that  it  destroys  the  evidence  of  the  benevolence  of.  God, 
making  him  prefer  the  sin  and  suffering  of  infants,  when  he 
has  power  to  make  them  with  such  minds.  They  claim  also 
that  if  a  holy  mind  consists  in  a  controlling  purpose  or  choice 
to  do  right,  that  it  is  a  contradiction  in  terms  to  say  that  a 
free  agent  can  be  created  with  such  a  purpose  or  choice.  For 
the  distinctive  feature  of  a  free  agent  is  intellect  to  perceive 
right  and  wrong,  and  power  to  choose  in  either  of  two  courses ; 
and  choice  can  not  be  created.  It  is  also  objected  that  by  this 
theory  the  chief  aim  of  an  educator  is  not  so  much  to  teach 
what  is  right  and  wrong,  and  secure  motives  and  training  to 
induce  such  habits  of  obedience  to  God's  laws  as  eventually 
will  secure  a  controlling  purpose  of  obedience,  but  rather  to 
employ  means  by  which  God  shall  regenerate  the  depraved 
mind. 

Let  it  be  particularly  noticed  that  these  two  cli^ses  do 
not  differ  as  to  the  facts  revealed.  Both  recognize  the  fact 
taught,  as  much  by  experience  as  by  revelation,  that  every 
child  has  such  a  nature  as  insures  the  constant  violation  of 
natural  law,  while  it  is  (entirely  destitute  of  a  controlling  prin- 
ciple of  love  to  God  and  man.  They  differ  mainly  as  to  a 
theory  of  accounting  for  this  fact  One  teaches  that  it  is 
because  the  mind  at  birth  is  ignorant,  undeveloped,  and  un- 
trained ;  the  other  teaches  that  it*  is  owing  to  an  imperfect 
constitutional  nature,  for  which  God  or  Adam^  or  botb^  are' 
responsible. 

Every  woman  must  examine  and  decide  for  herself  on 
which  of  these  systems  she  will  train  her  family.  In  this  ajt- 
tempt  women  have  one  advantage,  and  that  is,  they  are  not. 
so  liable  to  embarrassment  and  prejudice  ^  they  would  be 
were  they,  as  are  most  of  their  i^ligious  teachers,  trained  in 
systematic  theology. 

The  writer  has  had  an  experience  in  both  methods,  which 


FAIHLT  BELIOIOVS  TBAIKIKO.  428 

• 

may  have  some  inflaence  in  regard  to  belief  in  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Biblras  to  the  dreadful  dangers  to  be  met  in  the 
life  to  come.  This  was  the  mainspring  of  feeling  and  effort 
in  her  father,  who  trained  a  large  family  to  believe  and  to 
feel  that  the  great  objectof  life  should  be  to  save  as  many  as 
possible  from  eternal  ruin.  Wealth,  honor,  power,  and  every 
earthly  good,  in  his  mind,  was  as  the  dust  of  the  balance  com- 
pared with  this  overmastering  passion.  It  was  this  dreadful 
danger  to  herself,  and  to  those  she  loved  best,  that  changed 
a  frolicsome,  hopeful,  light  -  hearted  girl  to  a  serious,  hard- 
working woman  as  nothing  else  could  have  done.  It  was 
this  that  stiftiulated  a  mind  whose  natural  tendency  was  to 
works  of  taste,  light  literature,  and  fun,  to  anxious  investiga- 
tion in  theology,  metaphysics,  and  Biblical  science. 

And  the  results  in  family  and  personal  training  are  equal- 
ly manifest  in  the  history  of  Christian  sects.  It  is  those 
which  are  most  deeply  convinced  of  dreadful  dangers  in, the 
life  ta  come  which  have  been  most  advanced  in  mental  de- 
velopment, and  in  benevolent  labor  and  self-sacrifice.  Such 
heroic  suffering  and  devotion  to  the  best  interests  of  hu- 
manity have  never  been  witnessed  on  a  large  scale,  except 
in  denominations  whose  fundamental  and  motive  power  is 
belief  in  dreadful  dangers  to  be  encountered  after  death. 
The  great  difficulty  in  many  of  these  denominations  has  been 
a  theological  theory  as  to  the  created  constitution  of  mind, 
which  tended  to  lessen  hope  and  exertion  in  that  training 
by  which  escape  from  these  dangers  is  most  readily  and 
happily  secured. 

The  course  here  suggested  does  not  imply  independent  in- 
vestigation, without  aid  from*  men  of  learning  and  piety.  £v^ 
ery  doctrine  of  theology,  Itnd  every  antagonistic  mode  of  Bib- 
lical interpretation,  has  been  sustained  by  such  men.  But 
with  a  reference  Bible  and  Concordance,  any  woman  of  ordi- 
nary capacity,  can  collect  all  that  the  Bible  contains  on  a 
given  topic,  and  form  a  decision  as  to  which  view  has  the 
roost  evidence  in  its  favor.  Then  she  can  learn  what  has 
been  offered  both  for  and  against  this  view.  This  having 
been  done  with  a  prayerful  spirit,  the  result  will  rarely  fail 
in  bringing  satisfaction  and  peace;  while  both  intellectually 
and  morally  such  exercises  will  have  an  elevating  tendency. 


424      THE  HOUBSKSXPSB  AND  HKALTHKSSPBS. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

THB   CARS   OF  SBBVAKTB. 

In  the  chapter  on  the  Bight  Use  of  Time  and  Properiy^Xhe 
important  explanation  was  made  of  the  great  law  of  love  to 
Gkld  and  to  our  neighbor,  which  inclndes  in  its  aim  and  spirit 
all  other  laws.  The  distinction  is  there  exhibited  between 
instinctive  emotional  love,  caused  by  agreeable  qaalities  in 
persons  and  things,  and  the  voluntary  love  which  is  ''  good- 
will toward  Ood  and  man  on  the  best  and  most  exten- 
sive scale.  This  love  is  identified  in  the  great  command  it- 
self by  the  expression  ^^  as  thysel£''  For  the  love  of  self  is 
not  pleasure  created  by  our  own  agreeable  qualities.  It 
rather  is  the  all-controUing  desire  to  make  self  happy.  For 
this  end  we  are  required  to  obey  the  laws  of  God,  and  thus 
secure  the  best  and  highest  happiness  both  to  ourselves  and 
to  our  neighbors. 

In  addition  to  this  supreme  law,  made  olear  both  by  the 
intuitive  principle  of  mind  and  in  the  revealed  laws  of  the 
Old  Testament,  we  have  the.teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  as  to 
the  character  of  God  as  a  loving  Father  to  all  his  creatures. 
And,  what  is  especially  to  be  regarded  in  estimating  the  obli- 
gations of  a  housekeeper  to  her  servants,  we  are  taught  that 
our  heavenly  Father  feels  the  most  care  and  interest  in  those 
of  his  children  who  are  the  most  ignorant,  the  most  neglect- 
ed, and  the 'most  sinful.  As  the  loving  parent  gives  the 
most  thought  and  tender  care  to  the  most  feeble  and  imper- 
fect child,  so  the  Father  of  All  most  anxiously  cares  for  the 
weak,  the  ignorant,  and  the  wandering  of  mankind. 

Few  of  Christ's  professed  followers  at  the  present  day  re- 
alize what  obligations  they  assume  when  they  prepare  large 
houses  and  establishments,  which  bring  the  most  neglected 
members  of  society  under  their  care  as  members  of  the  fami- 
ly state.  *  # 

Did  they  understand  the  sacred  obligations  thus  stesumed 


THE  CABB   OF  BBBYANTS.  425 

to  train  the  humble  members  of  their  family  with  the  'care 
and  Christian  love  taught  by  both  the  precept  and  example 
of  our  Divine  Lord,  it  is  probable  most  would  reduce  their 
style  of  living,  so  that  their  own  children,  with  one  or  two 
of  God's  most  neglected  ones,  would  embrace  all  for  whom 
they  would  dare  to  assume  such  obligations. 

The  preceding  presents  the  general  principles  to  guide  a 
housekeeper  as  to  her  duty  in  the  care  of  servants.  The 
following  will  suggest  important  details  and  considerations. 
Those  in  quotation-marks  are  from  Mrs.  Stowe's  ^^  House  and 
Home  Papers." 

*^  Although  in  earlier  ages  the  highest-bom,  wealthiest, 
and  proudest  ladies  were  skilled  in  the  simple  labors  of  the 
household,  the  advance  of  society  toward  luxury  has  changed 
all  this,  especially  in  lands  of  aristocracy  and  classes;  and  at 
the  present  time  America  is  the  only  country  where  there  is  a 
class  of  women  who  may  be  described  as  ladies  who  do  their 
own  work.  By  a  lady  we  mean  a  woman  of  education,  cul- 
tivation, and  refincQicnt,  of  liberal  tastes  and  ideas,  who,  with- 
out any  very  material  additions  or  changes,  would  be  recog- 
nized as  a  lady  in  any  circle  of  the  Old  World  or  the  New. 

^'The  existence  of  such  a  class  is  a  fact  peculiar  to  Amer- 
ican society,  a  plain  result  of  the  new  principles  involved  in 
the  doctrine  of  universal  equality. 

'^  When  the  colonists  first  came  to  this  country,  of  however 
mixed  ingredients  their  ranks  might  have  been  composed, 
and  however  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  feudal  and  aristocrat- 
ic ideas,  the  discipline  of  the  wilderness  soon  brought  them 
to  a  democratic  level ;  the  gentleman  felled  the  wood  for  his 
log-cabin  side  by  side  with  the  plowman,  and  thews  and  sin- 
ews rose  in  the  market.  ^A  man  was  deemed  honorable  in 
proportion  as  he  lifted  his  hand  upon  the  high  trees  of  the 
forest.'  So  in  the  interior  domestic  circle,  mistress  and  maid, 
living  in  a  log-cabin  together,  became  companions,  and  some- 
times the  maid,  as  the  one  well  trained  in  domestic  labor, 
took  precedence  of  the  mistress.  It  also  became  natural  and 
Unavoidable  that  children  should  begin  to  work  as  early  as 
they  were  capable  of  it. 

'^ThO  result  was  a  generation  of  intelligent  people  brought 


<^ 


426      THB  H0U8BKSEPEB  AKD  HBALTHKEXPEB. 

up  to  labor  fr<om  Decessity,  but  devotiog  to  the  problem  of 
JaboT  the  acuteness  of  a  disciplined  brain.  The  mistresSy 
outdone  in  sinews  and  muscles  by  her  maid,  kept  her  su- 
periority by  skill  and  contrivance.  If  she  could  not  lift  a 
pail  of  water,  she  could  invent  methods  which  made  lifting 
the  pail  unnecessary;  if  she  could  not  take  a  hundred  steps 
without  weariness,  she  could  make  twenty  answer  the  pur- 
pose of  a  hundred. 

^  Then  were  to  be  seen  families  of  daughters,  handsome, 
strong  women,  rising  each  day  to  their  indoor  work  with 
cheerful  alertness — one  to  sweep  the  room,  another  to  make 
the  fire,  while  a  third  prepared  the  breakfast  for  the  father 
and  brothers  who  were  going  out  to  manly  labor:  and  they 
chatted  meanwhile  of  books^  studies,  embroidery;  discussed 
the  last  new  poem,  or  some  historical  topic  started  by  graver 
reading,  or  perhaps  a  rural  ball  that  was  to  come  off  next 
week.  They  spun  with  the. book  tied  to  the  dbtaff;  they 
wove;  they  did  all  manner  of  fine  needle-work;  they  made 
lace,  painted  flowers,  and,  in  short,  in  the  boundless  con- 
sciousness of  activity,  invention,  and  perfect  health,  set  them- 
selves to  any  work  of  which  they  had  ever  read  or  thought. 
A  bride  in  those  days  was  married  with  sheets  and  table- 
cloths of  her  own  weaving,  with  counterpanes  and  toilet- 
covers  wrought  in  divers,  embroidery  by  her  own  and  her 
sisters'  hands.  The  amount  of  fancy-work  done  in  our  days 
by  girls  who  have  nothing  else  to  do  will  not  equal  what 
was  done  by  those  who  performed^  in  addition,  the  whole 
work  of  the  family. 

''In  thpse  former  days  most  women  were  in  good  health, 
debility  and  disease  being  the  exception.  Then,  too,  was 
seen  the  economy  of  daylight  and  its  pleasures.  They  were 
used  to  early  rising,  and  would  not  lie  in  bed  if  they  coukL 
Long  years  of  practice  made  them  familiar  with  the  short- 
est, neatest,  most  expeditious  method  of  doing  every  house- 
hold office,  so  that  really,  for  the  greater  part  of  the  time  in 
the  house,  there  seemed,  to  a  looker-on,  to  be  nothing  to  do. 
They  rose  in  the  morning  and  dispatched  husband,  father, 
nnd  brothers  to  the  farm  or  wood-lot ;  went  sociably  about, 
chatting  with  each  other,  skimmed  the  milk,  made  the  but- 


^.• 


THX  CASB   OF  SXBYANTB.     '  42.7 

ter,  and  turned  the  cheeses.  The  forenoon  was  long;  all  the 
BO-called  morning  work  over,  they  had  leisure  for  an  hour's 
sewing  or  reading  befora  it  was  time  to  start  the  dinner  prep- 
arations. By  two  o'clock  the  house-work  was  done,  and 
they  had  the  long  afternoon  for  books,  needle-work,  or  draw- 
ing— for  perhaps  there  was  one  with  a  gifl  at  her  pencil. 
Perhaps  one  read  aloud  while  others  sewed,  and  manag6d  in 
that  way  to  keep  up  a  great  deal  of  reading. 

^'It  has  been  remarked  in  our  armies  that  the  men  of  culti- 
vation, though  bred  in  delicate  and  refined  spheres,  can  bear 
up  under  the  hardships  of  camp-life  better  and  longer  than 
rough  laborers.  The  reason  isj  that  an  educated  mind  knows 
how  to  use  and  save  its  body,  to  work  it  and  spare  it,  as 
an  uneducated  mind  can  not ;  and  so  the  college-bred  youth 
brings  himself  safely  through  fatigues  which  kill  the  unre? 
fiective  laborer. 

^Cultivated,  intelligent  women,  who  are  brought  U)»  to  do 
the  work  of  their  own  families,  are  labor-saving  institutions. 
They  make  the  head  save  the  wear  of  the  muscles.  By  fore- 
thought, contrivance,  system,  and  arrangement,  they  lessen 
the  amount  to  be  done,  and  do  it  with,  less  expense  of  time 
and  strength  than  others.  The  old  New  England  motto, 
G€t  your  work  done  vp  in  the  forenoon^  applied  to  an 
amount  of  work  which  would  keep  the  most  common  Irish 
servant  toiling  from  daylight  to  sunset. 

*' Those  remarkable  women  of  old,  in  a  measure,  were  made 
by  circumstances.  There  were,  cotnparatively  speaking,  no 
servants  to  be  had,  and  so  children  were  trained  to  habits 
of  industry  and  mechanical  adroitness  from  the  cradle,  and 
every  household  process  was  reduced  to  the  very  minimum 
of  labor.  Every  step  required  in  a  process  was  counted, 
every  movement  calculated;  and  she  who  took  ten  steps 
when  one  would  do,  lost  her  reputation  for  *  faculty.'  Cer- 
tainly such  an  early  drill  was  of  use  in  developing  the  health 
and  the  bodily  poweii^  as  well  as  in  giving  precision  to  the 
practical  mental  faculties. .  All  household  economies  were 
arranged  with  equal  niceness  in  those  thoughtful  minds.  A 
trained  housekeeper  knew  just  how  many  sticks  of  hickory 
of  a  certain  size  were  required  to  beat  her  oven,  and  how 


428  '  THB  HOUSBKSXPEB  AND  HSAHIHBIBXPSB. 

many  of  each  different  kind  of  wood.  She  knew  by  a  sort 
of  intuition  just  what  kinds  of  food  would  yield  the  most  pal- 
atable nutriment  with  the  least  outlay  of  accessories  in  cook- 
ing. She  knew  to  a  minute  the  time  when  each  article  must 
go  into  and  be  withdrawn  from  her  oven  ;  and  if  she  could 
only  lie  in  her  chamber  and  direct,  she  could  guide  an  intelli- 
gent child  through  the  processes  with  mathematical  certainty. 

"  Now,  if  every  young  woman  learned  to  do  house-work, 
and  cultivated  her  practical  faculties  in  early  life,  she  would, 
in  the  first  place,  be  much  more  likely  to  keep  her  servants; 
and,  in  the  second  place,  if  she  lost  them  temporarily,  would 
avoid  all  that  wear  and  tear  of  the  nervous  system  which 
comes  from  constant  ill -success  in  those  departments  on 
which  family  health  and  temper  mainly  depend.  This  is 
one  of  the  peculiarities  of  our  American  life  which  require  a 
peculiar  training.     Why  not  face  it  sensibly  ? 

''  0»r  land  abounds  in  motorpathio  institutions,  to  which 
women  are  sent,  at  a  great  expense,  to  have  hired  operators 
stretch  and  exercise  their  inactive  muscles.  They  lie  for 
hours  to  have  their  feet  twigged,  their  arms  flexed,  and  all 
the  different  muscles  of  the  body  worked  for  them,  because 
they  are  so  flaccid  and  torpid  that  the  powers  of  life  do  not 
go  on.  Would  it  not  be  quite  as  cheerful,  and  a  less  ex- 
pensive process,  if  young  girls  from  early  life  developed  the 
muscles  in  sweeping,  dusting,  starching,  ironing,  and  all  the 
multiplied  domestic  processes  which  our  grandmothers  knew 
of?  Does  it  not  seem  poor  economy  to  pay  servants  for 
letting  our  muscles  grow  feeble,  and  then  to  pay  operators 
to  exercise  them  for  us?  I  wiir  venture  to  say  that  our 
grandmothera  in  a  week  went  over  every  movement  that 
any  gymnast  has  invented,  and  went  over  them  to  some  pro- 
ductive purpose  toa. 

^' The  "first  business  of  a  housekeeper  in  America  is  that  of 
a  teacher.  She  can  have  a  good  table  only  by  having  prac- 
tical knowledge,  and  tact  in  imparling  it.  If  she  under- 
stands her  business  practically  and  experimentally,  her  eye 
detects  at  once  the. weak  spot;  it  requires  only  a  little  tact, 
some  patience,  some  clearness  in  giving  directions,  and  all 
comes  right. 


THte  CABB   OF  SBBYAKTB.  429 

^If  we  carry  a  watch  to  a  watch-maker,  and  undertake  to 
show  him  how  to  regulate  the  machinery,  he  laughs  and 
goes  on  his  own  way;  but  if  a  brother-machinist  makes  sug- 
gestions, be  listens  respectfully.  So,  when  a  woman  who 
knows  nothing  of  woman's  work  undertakes  to  instruct  one 
who  knows  more  than  she  does,  she  makes  no  impression ; 
.but  a  woman  who  has  been  trained  experimentally,  and 
shows  she  understands  the  matter  thoroughly,  is  listened  to 
with  respect. 

^^Iiet  a  woman  make  her  own  bread  for  one  month,  and, 
simple  as  the  process  seems,  it  will  take  as  long  as  that  to 
get  a  thorough  knowledge  of  all  the  possibilities  in  the  case; 
but  after  that,  she  will  be  able  to  command  good  bread  by 
the  aid  of  all  sorts  of  servants ;  in  other  words,  will  be  a 
thoroughly-prepared  teacher  of  breadrmaking. 

^Good  servants  do  Jiot  often  come  to  us;  they  must  be 
made  by  patience  and  training;  and  if  a  girl  has  a  good 
disposition,  and  a  reasonable  degree  of  handiness,  and  the 
housekeeper  understands  her  profession,  a  good  servant  may 
be  made  out  of  an  indifferent  one.  Some  of  the  best  girls 
have  been  those  who  came  directly  from  the  ship,  with  no 
preparation  but  docility  and  some  natural  quickness.  The 
hardest  cases  to  be  managed  are  not  of  those  who  have  been 
taught  nothing,  but  of  those  who  have  been  taught  wrongly 
— who  come  self-opinionated,  with  ways  which  are  distaste- 
ful, and  contrary  to  the  genius  of  one's  housekeeping.  Such 
require  that  their  mistress  shall  understand  at  least  so  much 
of  the  actual  conduct  of  affairs  as  to  prove  to  the  servant  that 
there  are  better  ways  than  those  in  which  she  has  been'trained. 

''Domestic  service  is  the  great  problem  of  life  here  in 
America;  the  happiness  of  families,  their  thrift,  well-being, 
and  comfort^  are  more  affected  by  this  than  by  any  one  thing 
else.  The  modem  girls,  as  they  have  been  brought  up,  can 
not.  perform  the  labor,  of  their  own  families  as  in  those  sim- 
pler, old-fashioned  days;  and  what  is  worse,  they  have  no 
practical  skill  with  which  to.  instruct  servant^,  who  come  to 
us,  as  a  class,  raw  and  untrained.  In  the  present  state  of 
prices,  the  board  of  a  domestic  costs  as  much  as  her  wages, 
and  the  waste  she  makes  is  a  more  serious  mattei;  still'V 


480      THX  HOUSXKXXPSB  AND  HXALTHKXXPJEB. 

:  It  is  sometimes  urged  against  domestics  that  they  exact 
exorbitant  wages.  But  what  is  the  role  of  rectitude  on  this 
subject?  Is  it  not  the  universal  law  of  labor  and  of  trade 
that  an  article  is  to  be  valued  according  to  M  scarcity  and 
the  demand?  When  wheat  is  scarce,  the  farmer  raises  his 
price;  and  when  a  mechanic  offers  services  difficult  to  be 
obtained,  he  makes  a  corresponding  increase  of  price.  -  AnA 
why  is  it  not  right  for  domestics  to  act  according  to  a  rule 
allowed  to  be  correct  in  reference  to  all  other  trades  and 
professions?  It  is  a  fact  that  really  good  domestic  service 
must  continue  to  increase  in  value  just  in  proportion  as  this 
country  waxes  rich  and  prosperous;  thus  making  the  pro- 
portion of  those  who  wish  to  hire  labor  relatively  greater, 
and*the  number  of  those  willing  to  go  to  service  less.  . 

Money  enables  the  rich  to  gain  many  advantages  which 
those  of  more  limited  circumstances  can  not  secure.  One 
of  these  is, securing  good  servants  by  offering  high  wages; 
and  this,  As  the  scarcity  of  this  class  increases,  will'  serve 
constantly  to  raise  the  price  of  service.  It  is  right  for  do- 
mestics to  charge  the  market  value,  and  this  value  is  ialways 
decided  by  the  scarcity  of  the  article  and  the  amount  of 
demand.  Right  views  of  this  subject  will  sometimes  serve 
to  diminish  hard  feelings  towt^rd  those  who  would  otherwise 
be  wrongfully  regarded  as  unreasonable  and  exacting. 

Another  complaint  against  servants  is  that  of  instability 
and  discontent,  leading  to  perpetual  change.  But  in  refer- 
ence to  this,  let  a  mother  or  daughter  conceive.of  their  own 
circumstances  as  so  changed  that  the  daughter  must  go  out 
to  service.  Suppose  a  place  is  engaged,  and  it  is  then  found 
that  she  must  sleep  in  a; comfortless. garret ;  and  that,  when 
a  new  domestic  comes— perhi^ps  a  coarse  and  dirty  foreign- 
er— she  must  share  her  bed  with  her.  Another  place  is  of- 
fered, where  she  can  have  a  comfortable  room  and  an  agree- 
able room-mate ;  in  such  a  case,  would  not  both  mother  and 
daughter  think  it  right  to  change?  ; 

.Or  suppose,  .on  trial,  it  was  found  that  the  lady  of  the 
house  was  fretful  or  exacting,  and  hard  to  please,  or  that  her 
children  were  so  ungovernedas  to  be  perpetual  vexations; 
or  that  the  work  was  so  heavy  that  no  time  was  allowed  Tor 


THIS   CABB   OF  SKRYAJSTB.  481 

relaxation  atid  the  care  of  a  wardrobe;  and  another  place 
offers  where  these  evils  can  be  escaped,  would  not  mother 
and  daaghter  here  think  it  right  to  change  ?  And  is  it  npt 
right  for  domestics,  as  well  as  their  employers,  to  seek  places 
where* they  can  be  most  comfortable  ? 

In  spme  cases,  this  instability  and  love  of  change  would 
be  remedied  if  employers  would  take  more  pains  to  make  a 
residence  with  them  agreeable,  and  to  attach  servants  to  the 
family  by  feelings  of  gratitude  and  affection.  There  are  la- 
dies, j^ven  where  well-qualified  domestics  are  most  rare,  who 
seldom  find  any  trouble  in  keeping  good  and  steady  ones. 
And  the  reason  is  that  their  servants  know  they  can  not 
better  their  condition  by  any  change  within  reach.  It  id  not 
merely  by  givinjg  them  comfortable  rooms,  and  good  food, 
and  presents,  and  privileges,  that  the  attachment  of  domes-^ 
tic  servants  is  secured  ;  it  is  by  the  manifestation  of  a  friend- 
ly and  benevolent  interest  in  their  comfort  and  improvement. 
This  is  exhibited  in  bearing  patiently  with  their  faults;  in 
kindly  teaching  them  how  to  improve ;  in  showing  them  how 
to  inake  and  take  proper  care  of  their  clothes;  in  guarding 
their  health ;  in  teaching  them  to  read,  if  necessary,  and  sup- 
plying them  with  proper  books ;  and,  in  short,  by  endeavor- 
ing, so  far  as  may  be,  to  supply  the  place  of  parents.  It  is 
seldom  that  such  a  course  would  fail  to  secure  steady  serv- 
ice; and  such  affection  arid  gratitude  that  even  higher  wages 
would  be  ineffectual  to  tempt  them  away.  There  would 
problkbly  be  some  cases  of  ungrateful  returns,  but  there  is  no 
doubt  that  the  course  indicated,  if  generally^  pursued,  would 
very  much  lessen  the  evil  in  question. 

When  servants  are  forward  arid  bold  in  manners  and  dis- 
respectful in  address,  they  may  be  considerately  taught  that 
those  who  are  among  the  bestrbred  and  genteel  have  court- 
eous and  respectful  manners  and  language  to  all  they  meet; 
while  many  who  have  wealth  are  regieirded  as  vulgar,  be- 
cause they  exhibit  rude  arid. disrespectful  manners.  The 
Very  terms  gentleman  and  gentlewoman  indicate  the  refine- 
ment and  delicacy  of  address  which  distinguishes  the  high- 
bred from  the  coarse  and  vulgar. 

In  regard  to  appropriate  dress,  in  mo3t  cases  it  is  difficult 


482'  THE   H0U8XKXBPSB  iJfD  HEil/THKXXPXJt. 

for  an  employer  to  interfere  diredtly  with  comments  or  ad- 
vice. The  most  Baccessfnl  mode  is  to  offer  some  service  in 
mending  or  making  a  wardrobe,  and  when  a  confidence  in 
the  kindness  of  feeling  is  thus  gained,  remarks  and  sngges- 
tions  will  generally  be  propefly  receiyed,  and  new  views  of 
propriety  and  economy  can  be  imparted.  The  knowledge 
which  is  so  important  to  every  woman,  contained  in  the  chap- 
ter on  Clothing^  is  as  much  needed  in  the  kitchen  as  in  the 
parlor.  In  some  cases  it  may  be  well  for  an  employer  who, 
from  appearances,  anticipates  difficulty  of  this  kind,  in  mak- 
ing the  preliminary  contract  or  agreement,  to  state  that.she 
wishes  to  have  the  room,  person,  and  dress  of  heir  servants 
kept  neat  and  in  order,  and  that  she  expects  to  remind  them 
of  their  duty  in  this  particular  if  it  is  neglected.  Domes- 
tic servants  ai*e  very  apt  to  neglect  the  care  of  their  own 
chambers  aod  clothing;  and  such  habits  have  a  most  pemi- 
cioos  influence  on  their  well-being,  and  on  that  of  their  chil- 
dren, in  future  domestic  life.  An  employer,  then,  is  bound  to 
exercise  a  pareptal  care  over  them  in  these  respects. 

Thei'e  is  one  great  mistake,  not  unfrequently  tnade,  in  the 
management  both  of  domestics  and  of  children,  and  that  is^ 
in  supposing  that  the  way  to  cure  defects  is  by  finding  fault 
a^  each  failing  occurs.  But  instead  of  this  being  true,  in 
many  cases  the  directly  opposite  course  is  the  best;  while 
in  all  instances  much  good  judgment  is  required  in  order  to 
decide  when  to  notice  faults  and  when  to  let  them  pasa  un- 
noticed. There  arei  some  minds  very  sensitive,  easily  dis- 
couraged, and  infirm  of  purpose.  Such  persons,  when  they 
have  formed  habits  of  negligence,  haste,  and  awkwardness, 
often  need  expressions  of  sympathy  and  encouragement 
rather  than  reproof.  They  have  usually  been  found  fault 
with  so  much  that  they  have  become  either  hardened  or  de- 
sponding; and  it  is  often  the  case  that  a  few  words  of  com^ 
mendation  will  awaken  fresh  efforts  and  renewed  hope.  In 
almost  every  case,  words  of  kindness,  confidence,  and  en- 
couragement should  be  mingled  with  the  needful  admoni- 
tions or  reproof. 

It  is  a  good  rule,  in  reference  to  this  point,  to  fareioafTi 
instead  of  finding  &xjli.    Thus,  when  a  thing  has  been  done 


-  .     tHE  CA&E  OF  SEBYAMTS.  438 

wrong,  let  it  pass  unnotioed  till  it  is  to  be  done  ugAin;  and 
then  a  simple  request  to  have  it  done  in  the  right  w^y  will 
secure  quite  as  much,  and  probably  more,  willing  effort,  than 
a  reproof  administered  for  neglect.  Some  persons  seem  to 
take  it  for  granted  that  young  and  inexperienced  minds  are 
bound  to  have  all  the  forethought  and  discretion  of  mature 
persons,  and  freely  express  wonder  and  disgust  when  mis- 
haps occur  for  want  of  these  traits.  But  it  would  be  far 
better  to  save  from  mistake  or  forgetfulness  by  previous 
caution  and  care  on  the  part  of  those  who  have  gained  ex- 
perience and  forethought;  and  thus  many  occasions  of  com- 
plaint and  ill-humor  will  be  avoided. 

Those  who  fill  the  places  of  heads  of  families  are  not  very 
apt  to  think  how  painful  it  is.  to  be  chided  for  neglect  of 
duty,  or  for  faults  of  character.  If  they  would  sometimes 
imagine  themselves  in  the  place  of  those  whom  they  control, 
with  some  person  daily  administering  reproof  to  them  in  the 
same  tone  arid  style  as  they  employ  to  those  who  are  under 
them,  it  might  serve  as  a  useful  check  to  their  chidings.  It  is 
oft0n  th6  ease  that  persons  who  are  most  strict  and  exacting, 
and  least  able  to  make  allowances  and  receive  palliations,  are 
themselves  peculiarly  sensitive  to  any  thing  which  implies 
that  they  are  in  fault  By  such,  the  spirit  implied  in  the  Di- 
vine petition^  **.  Forgive  us  our  trespasses  as  we  forgive  those 
who  trespass  against  us,''  needs  especially  to  be  cherished. 

One  other  consideration  is  very  important.  There  is  no 
duty  more  binding  on  Christians  than  that  of  patience  and 
meekness  undetr  provocations  and  disappointment.  Now 
the  tendency  of  every  sen$itive  mind,  when  thwarted  in  its 
wishes,  is  to  corppUia  and  fiod  fault,  and  that  often  in  tones 
of  fretfulness  or  anger.  But  there  are  few  servants,  who 
have  not  heard  enough  of  the  Bible  to  know  that  angry  or 
fretful  fault-finding  .from  the  mistress  of  a  family,  when  her 
work  is  not  dpue  to  suit  her,  is  not  in  agreement  with  the 
precepts  of  Ghrist  They  notice  and  feel  the  inconsistency ; 
and  every  woman,  when  she  gives  way  to  feelings  of  anger 
and  impatience  at  the  faults  of  those  around  her,  lowers  her- 
self in  their  respect ;  while  her  own  conscience,  unless  very 
much  blinded,  can  not  but  suffer  a  wound. 

^  19  • 


484      THE  H0U8SKSSPEB  AKD  HEALTHKESPSB. 

'  **We  can  not  in  this  coantry  maintain  to  any  great  ex- 
tent  large  retinues  of  servants.  Even  with  ample  fortunes, 
they  are  forbidden  by  the  general  character  of  society 
here,  which  makes  them  cambrous  and  difficult  to  man- 
age. Every  mistress  of  a  family  knows  that  her  cares  in- 
crease with  every  additional  servant.  Trailed  housekeep- 
ers, such  as  regulate  the  complicated  establishments  of  the 
Old  World,  foi*m  a  class  that  are  not,  and  from  the  nature  of 
the  case  never  will  be,  found  in  any  great  numbers  in  this 
country.  All  such  women,  as  a  general  thing,  are  keeping, 
tktid  prefer  to  keep,  houses  of  their  own. 

''A  moderate  style  of  housekeeping,  small,  compact,  and 
simple  domestic  establishments,  must  necessarily  be  the  gen- 
eral order  of  life  in  America.  So  many  openings  of  profit 
are  to  be  found  in  this  country,  that  domestic  service  nec- 
essarily wants  the  permanence  which  forms  so  agreeable  a 
feature  of  it  in  the  Old  World. 

"Again,  American  women  must  not  try  With  three  serv- 
ants to  carry  on  life  in  the  stylo  which  in  the  Old  World 
requires  sixteen.  They  must  thoroughly  understand,  and  be 
prepared  to  teach,  every  branch  of  housekeeping ;  they  must 
Study  to  make  domestic  service  desirable,  by  treating  their 
servants  in  a  way  to  lead  them  to  respect  themselves,  and 
to  feel  themselves  respected;  and  there  will  gradually  be 
evolved  from  the  prej^ent  confusion  a  solution  of  the  domes- 
tic problem  which  shall  be  adapted  to  the  life  of  a  new  and 
growing  World."     ' 

It  is  sometimes  the  case  that  the  constant  change  of  do- 
mestics, and  the  liability  thus  to  have  dishonest  ones,  makes 
it  needful  to  keep  stores  under  lock  and  key.  This  measure 
is  often  very  offensive  to  those  who  are  hir^d,as  it  is  regard- 
ed by  them  as  an  evidence  both  of  closeness  and  of  suspicion 
of  their  honesty. 

In  such  cases  it  is  a  good  plan,  when  first  making  an 
agreement  with  a  domestic,  to  state  the  case  in  this  way: 
that  you  have  had  dishonest  persons  in  the  family,  and  that 
when  theft  is  committed,  it  is  always  a  cause  of  disquiet  to 
hofiest  ^ersonSy  because  it  exposes  them  to  suspicion.  You 
can  then  state  your  reasons  as  twofold :   one  to  protect 


THE  CASK  OF  SERVANTS.  435 

yourself  from  pilfering  when  70a  take  entire  strangers,  and 
the  other  is  to  protect  honest  persons  from  being  suspected. 
*  When  the  matter  is  thus  presented  at  first  hiring  a  person, 
no  offense  will  be  taken  afterward. 

There  is  one  rule  which  every  housekeeper  will  find  of 
incalculable  value,  not  only  in  the  case  of  dom^tics,  but  in 
the  management  of  children,  and  that  is,  never  to  fiiid  &ult 
cU  the  time  that  a  wrong  thing  ie  done.  Wait  until  you  are 
unexcited  yourself,  and  until  the  vexation  of  the  offender  is 
also  past,  and  then,  when  there  is  danger  of  a  similar  offensey 
'  .forewarn^  and  point,  out  the  evils  already  done  for  want  of 
proper  care  in  this  respect 

Success  in  the  management  of  domestics  very  much  de- 
pends upon  the  manners  of  a  housekeeper  toward  them. 
And  here  two  extremes  are  to  be  avoided.  .  One  is  a  severe 
and  imperious  mode  of  giving  orders  and  finding  fault,  which 
is  inconsistent  both  with  lady-like  good  breeding  and  with 
a  truly  amiable  character.  Few  domestics,  especially  Ameri- 
can domestics,  will  long  submit  to  it,  and  many  a  good  one 
has  been  lost;  simply  by  the  influence  of  this  unfortunate 
manner.  The  other  extreme  is  apt  to  result  from  the  great 
difficulty  of  retaining  good  domestics.  In  cases  where  this 
is  experienced,  there  is  a  liability  of  becoming  so  feieirful  of 
displeasing  one  who  is  found  to  be  good,  that,  imperceptibly, 
the  relation  is  changed,  and  the  domestic  becomes  the  mis- 
tress. A  housekeeper  thus  described  this  change  in  one 
whom  she  hired  :  ^*  The  first  year  she  was  an  excellent  serv- 
ant; the  second  year  she  was  a  kind  mistresa;  the  third 
year  she  was  an  intoleriible  tyrant !" 

There  is  no  domestic  so  good  that  she  will  not  be  injured 
by  perceiving  that,  through  dependence  upon  her,  and  a  fear, 
of  losing  her  services,  the  mistress  of  the  family  gives  up  her 
proper  authority  and  control 

^e  happy  medium  is  secured  by  a  course  of  real  kind- 
ness in  manner  and  treatment,  attended  with  the  manifesta- 
tion of  a  calm  determination  that  the  plans  and  will  of  the 
housekeeper,  and  not  of  the  domestic,  shall  control  the  fiun- 
ily  arrangements. 

When  a  good  domestic  first  begins  to  insbt  Uiat  her  views 


486  THE  H0ir3XKJBBPSR  Ainy  BBAUTBKRKPKA 

*  ■ 

and  notions  shall  be  regarded  rather  than  those  of  the  honse- 
keeper,  a  kind  bat  firm  stand  most  be  iaken.  A  frank  con- 
versation should  be  sought  at  a  time  H^hen  nothing  has  oc- 
curred to  mfle  the  tamper  on  either  sid&  Then  the  bonse- 
keeper  can  inquire  what  would  be  the  view  taken  of  this 
matter  in  case  the  domestic  herself  should  become  a  house- 
keeper and  hire  a  person  to  help  her;  and  whea  the  matter 
is  set  before  her  mind  in  this  .light,  let  the  ^golden  rule  ^  be 
"  applied,  and  askher  whether  she  is  not  disposed  to  render 
to  her  present  employer  what  she  herself  would  ask  from  a 
domestic  in  similar  circumstances^ 

Much  trouble  of  this  kind  is  saved  by  hiring  persons  on 
trial,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  they  are  willing  and  able 
to  do  tiie  work  of  the  family  in  the  manner  which  the  house- 
keeper wishes;  and  in  this  case  some  member  of  the  family 
can  go  around  for  a  day  or  two,  and  show  how  every  thing 
is  to  be  done. 

There  is  no  department  of  domestic  life  where  H  woman's 
temper  and  patience  are  so  sorely  tried;  as  in  the  incompe- 
tence and  constant  changes  of  domestics;  and  therefore 
there  is  no  place  where  a  i*ea8onable  and  Christian  womaq 
will  be  more  watchful,  careful,  and  conscientious. 

The  cultivation  of  patience  will  be  much  promoted  by 
keeping  in  mind  these  considerations  in  reference  to  the  in- 
competence and  other  failings  of  those  who  are  hired. 

In  the.  first  place,  consider  that  the  great  object  of  life  to 
us  is  not  enjoyment,  but  the  formation  of  a  right  character ; 
that  such  a  character  can  not  be  formed  except  by  discipline, 
and  that  the  trials  and  difficulties  of  domestic  life,  if  met  in 
a  proper  spirit  and  manner,  will  in  the  end  prove  blessings 
rather  than  evils,  by  securing  a  measure  of  elevation,  dig- 
nity, patience,  self-control,  and  benevolence,  that  could  be 
gained  by  no  other  methods.  The  comfort  gained  by  these 
virtues,  and  the  rewards  they  bring,  both  in  this  and  in  a 
future  life,  are  a  thousand-fold  richer  than  the  easy,  indolent 
life  of  indulgence  which  we  should  choose  for  ourselves. 

In  the  next  place,  instead  of  allowing  the  .mind  to  dwell 
on  the  faults  of  those  who  minister  to  our  comfort  and  con- 
venience, cultivate  a  habit  of  making  every  possible  benevo- 


.  THB  CABB  OP  SBBYANTS.  487 

lent  allowance  and  palliation*  Say  to  yoaraelf,  ^'  Poor  girl ! 
she  has  never,  been  instructed  either  by  parents  or. employ- 
ers. Nobody  has  felt  any  interest  in  the  formation  of  her 
habits,  or  kindly  sought  to  rectify  her  faults.  Why  should 
I  expect  her  to  do  those  things  well  which  no  one  has  taken 
any  care  to  teach  her?  She  has  no  parent  or  friend  now-  to 
aid  her  but  mysel£  Let  me  bear  her  faults  patiently,  and 
kindly  try  to  cure  them." 

.  .  If  a  woman  will  cultivate  the  spirit  expressed  in  such  lan- 
guage, if  she  will  benevolently  seek  the  best  good  of  those 
she  employs,  if  she  will  interest  herself  in  giving  them  in- 
struction if  they  need  it,  and  good  book$  to  read  if  they  are 
already  qualified  to  understand  them,  if  she  will  manifest  a 
desire  to  have  therai  made  comfortable  in  the  kitchen  and 
'in  their  chambers,  she  certainly  will  receive  her  reward,  and 
that  in  many  ways.  •  She  will  be  improving  her  own  Charac- 
ter, she  will  set  a  good  example  to  her  family,  and,  in  the 
end,  she  will  do  something,  and  in  some  cases  much,  to  im- 
prove the  character  and  services  of  those  whom  she  hires. 
And  the  good  done  in  this  way  goes  down  from  generation 
to  generation,  and  goes  also  into  the  eternal  world,  to  be 
blown  and  rejoiced  in  when  every  earthly  good  has  come 
to  an  end. 

In  some  portions  of  our  country,  the  great  influx  of  for- 
eigners of  another  language  and -another  &ith,  and  the  ready 
entrance  they  find  as  domestics  into  American  families,  im- 
pose peculiar  trials  and  peculiar  duties  on  American  house- 
keepers. In  reference  to  such,  it  is  no  less  our  interest  than 
our  duty  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of  kindness,  patience,  and  sym- 
pathy. 

Especially  should  this  be  manifested  in  reference  to  their 
religion.  However  wrong,  or  however  pernicious  we  may 
regard  their  system  of  faith,  we  should  remember  that  they 
have  been  trained  to  believe  that  it  is  what  God  commands 
them  to  obey ;  and  so  long  as  they  do  believe  this,  we  should  ' 
respect  them  for  their  conscientious  scruples,  and  not  try 
to  tempt  them  to  do  what  they  suppose  to  be  wrongs  If 
we  lead  an  ignorant  and  feeble  mind  to  do  what  it  believes 
to  be  wrong  in  regard  to  the  roost  sacred  of  all  duties, 


489      THE  H0U8BKBBPBS  AKD  HBALTHKBEPBB. 

those  owed  to  God,  how  can  we  expect  them  to  be  faithful 
tons? 

The  only  lawfiil  way  to  benefit  tho8e,whom  we  regard  as 
in  an  error  is,  not  to  tempt  them  to  do  what  they  believe  to 
be  wrong,  bat  to  give  them  the  light  of  knowledge,  so  that 
they  may  be  qaalified  to  judge  for  themselves.  And  the 
way  to  make  them  willing  to  receive  this  light  is  to  be  kind 
to  them.  We  should  take  care  that  their  feelings  and  prej- 
udices should'in  no  way  be  abused,  and  that  they  be  treat- 
ed as  we  should  wish  to  be  if  thrown  as  strangers  into  a 
strange  land,  among  a  people  of  different  customs  and  faith, 
and  away  from  parents,  home,  and  friends. 

Remember  that  onr  Master  who  is  in  heaven  especially 
claims  to  be  the  God  of  the  widow,  the  fatherless,  and  the 
stranger^  and  has  commanded, "  If  a  stranger  sojourn  with 
you  in  your  land,  ye  shall  not  vex  himj  but  the  stranger 
that  dwelleth  among  you  shall  be  unto  you  as  one  born 
among  you,  and  thou  shalt  love  him  as  thyself.^'* 

Mrs. Stowe  says:  ^'We  are  &r  from  recommending  any 
controversial  interference  with  the  religions  faith  of  our  serv- 
ants. It  is  far  better  to  incite  them  to  be  good-Christians  in 
their  own  way,  than  to  run  the  risk  of  shaking  their  faith  in 
all  religion  by  pointing  out  to  them  what  seem  to.  us  the  er- 
rors of  that  in  which  they  have  been  educated.  The  general 
purity  of  life  and  propriety  of  demeanor  of  so  many  thousands 
of  undefended  young  girls  cast  yearly  upon  our  shores,  with 
no  home  but  their  church,  and  no  shield  but  their  religion, 
are  a  sufficient  proof  that  this  religion  exerts  an  influence 
over  them  not  to  be  lightly  tiifled  with.  But  there  is  a  real 
unity  even  in  opposite  Christian  forms ;  and  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic servant  and  the  Protestant  mistress,  if  alike  possessed  by 
the  spirit  of  Christ,  and  striving  to  conform  to  the  (Golden 
Rule,  can  not  help  being  one  in  heart,  though  one  go  to 
mass  and  the  other'to  meeting." 

To  this  testimony  of  .her  sister  the  author  a<^ds  some  re- 
sults of  her  observations  as  a  resident  or  visitor  among  a 
wide  circle  of  personal  and  family  friends.  The  CAiristian 
care  exercised  by  the  Catholic  priesthood  over  family  serv- 
ants deserves  grateful  notice,  while  the  pure  and  wise  in- 


.  THE  CABB   09  BBBYANTS.  439 

struations  i^ontained  iu  the  manuals  of  devotion  used  at  pub- 
lic and  private  worship  by  this  class,  iu  many  respects,  are  a 
model  of  excellence.  As  one  illustration  of  t^e  good  fruits, 
the  author,  for'  a  portion  of  each  of  the  last  ten  years,  has 
boarded  in  the  family  of  her  physician.  Dr.  6.  H.  Taylor. 
Here  not  less  than  twelve  Irish  Catholic  girls  usually  fre- 
quent the  Sunday  early  mass  when  most  people  are  asleep. 
In  this  family  neither  her  trunk,  drawers,  or  door  were  ever 
locked,  and  yet  never  an  article  has  been  lost  or  stolen.  And 
among  her  many  friends  it  is  this  class  who,  with  occasional 
exceptions,  have  been  unsurpassed  in  faithful  and  affection- 
ate service. 

*  True,  much  has  been  owing  to  the  happy  management  and 
wise  care  of  Christian  housekeepers,  who  in  the  life  to  come 
will  reap  the  rewards '  of  their  faithful  labors.  A  time  is 
coming  when  American  housekeepers  will  better  understand 
their  high  privileges  as  chief  ministers  of  the  family  state. 
Then  it  will  no  longer  be  a  cause  of  discontent  that  a  well- 
trained  and  faithful  servant  is  withdrawn  to  bless  another 
family,  or  to  rear  one  of  her  own.  Rather  it  will  be  seen 
that  the  Christian  woman^s  kitchen  is  a  training-school  of 
good  servants,  wh^re  ignoi'ant  heathen  come  to  be  guided 
heavenward,  and  prepared  to  rear  healthful  and  Christian 
families  of  their  own.  Then  the  young  daughters  will  aid 
the  mother  in  this  Home  Mission,  and,  by  imparting  their  ac- 
quired advantages  to  Christ's  neglected  ones,  w,ill  learn  with 
thankfulness  how  much  "more  blessed  it  is  to  give  than  to' 
receive.^ 


440  THB  HOUSBKEXPBB  JOXD  HBAXJOaKBBFXB. 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

« 

DOMBSnC  AMUSSMBNTS  AND  SOCIAL  DUTIBS. 

Whbi^bybb  the  laws  of  body  and  mind  are  properly  un- 
derstood, it  will  be  allowed  that  every  person  needs  some 
kind  of  recreation ;  and  that^  by  seeking  it,  the  body  is 
strengthened,  the^mind  is  invigorated,  and  all  oar  daties  are 
more  cheerfully  and  successfully  performed. 

Children,  whose  bodies  are  rapidly  growing  and  T^hose 
nervous  system  is  tender  and  excitable,  need  much  more 
amusement  than  persons  of  mature  age. .  Persons,  also,  who 
are  oppressed  with  great  responsibilities  and  duties,  or  who 
are  taxed  by  great  intellect aal  or  moral  excitement,  need 
recreations  which  physicaUy  exercise  and  draw  off  the  mind, 
ii'om  absorbing  interests.  Unfortunately,  such  persons  are 
those  who  least  resort  to  amusements ;  while  the  idle,  gay, 
and  thoughtless  seek  those  which  are  not  needed,  and  for 
which  useful  occupation  would  be  a  most  benefical  substi- 
tute. 

As  the  only  legitimate  object  of  amusement  is  to  prepare 
mind  and  body  for  the  proper  discharge  of  duty,  the  pro- 
tracting of  such  as  interfere  with  regular  employments,  or 
induce  excessive  fatigue,  or  weary  the  mind,  or  invade  tha 
proper  hours  for  repose,  must  be  sinful. 

In  deciding  what  should  be  selected,  and  what  avoided, 
the  following  are  guiding  principles :  In  the  first  place,  no 
amusements  which  inflict  needless  pain  should  ever  be  al- 
lowed. All  tricks  which  cause  fright  or  vexation,  and  all 
sports  which  involve  suffering  to  animals,  should  be  utterly 
forbidden.  Hunting  and  fishing,  for  mere  sport,  can  never 
be  justified.  If  a  man  can  convince  his  children  that  he 
follows  these  pursuits  to  gain  food  or  health,  and  not  for 
amusement,  his  example  may  not  be  very  injurious.  But 
when  children  see  grown  persons  kill  and  frighten  animals 


D0MESTIO  .AMUSEMBNTS  AND  BCKHAL  DUTISS.  441 

for  sport,  habits  of  cruelty,  rather  than  feelings  of  tenderness 
and  benevolence,  are  cultivated. 

In  the  next  place,  Ve  should  seek  no  recreations  which 
endanger  life,  or  interfere  with  important  duties.  As  the 
legitimate  object  of  amusements  is  to  promote  health  and 
prepare  for.  some  serious  duties,  selecting  those  which  have  a 
directly  opposite  tendency  can  not  be  justified.  Of  course, 
if  a  person  feels  that  the  previous  day's  diversion  has  short- 
ened the.  hours  of  needful  repose,  or  induced  a  lassitude  of 
mind  or  body,  instead  of  invigorating  them,  it  is  certain  that 
an  evil  has  been  done  which  should  never  be  repeated. 

Another  rule  which  has  been  extensively  adopted  in  the 
-religious  world  is,  to  avoid  those  amusements  which  experi- 
ence has  shown  to  be  so  exciting,  and  connected  with  so 
many  temptations,  as  to  be  pernicious  in  tendency,  both  to 
the  individual  and  to  the  community.  It  is  on  this  ground 
that  horse-racing  and  circus -riding  have  been  excluded. 
Not  because  there  is  any  thing  positively  wrong  in  having- 
men  and  horses  run  and  perform  feats  of  agility,  or  in  per- 
sons looking  on  for  the  diversion ;  but  because  experience 
has  shown  so  many  evils  connected  with  these  recreations, 
that  they  should  be  relinquished  until  properly  regulated. 
So  with  theatres.  The  enactmg  of  characters  and  the 
amusement  thus  afforded  in  themselves  may  be  harmless, 
and  possibly,  in  certain  cases,  might  be  useful;  but  experi- 
ence has  shown  so  many  evils  to  result  from  this  source,  that 
it  has  been  deemed  wrong  to  patronize  it  till  these  evils  are 
removed. 

Under  the  same  head  comes  dancing,  in  the  estimation  of 
the  great  majority  of  the  religious  world.  Still,  there  are 
many  intelligent,  excellent,  and  conscientious  persons  who 
hold  a  contrary  opinion.  Such  maintain  that  it  is  an  inno- 
cent and  healthful  amusement,  tending  to  promote  ease  of 
manners,  cheerfulness,  social  affection,  and  health  of  mind 
and  body ;  that  evils  are  involved  only  in  its  excess ;  that, 
like  food,,  study,  or  religious  excitement,  it  is  only  wrong 
when  not  properly  regulated ;  and  that  if  serious  an(^  intelli- 
gent people  would  strive  to  regulate,  rather  than  banish,  this 
amusement,  much  more  good  would  be  secured. 

19* 


442  THJB  H0U8BKXSPES  AND  SXJLLTHBLBEPXB. 

On  the  other  side,  it  is  Objected,  not  that  dancing  is  asin, 
in  itself  considered,  for  it  was  once  a  part  of  sacred  worship; 
not  that  it  woald  be  objectionable,  if  it  were  properly  regu- 
lated ;  not  that  it  does  not  tend,  when  used  in  a  proper  man- 
ner, to  health  of  body  and  mind,  to  grace  of  manners,  and  to 
social  enjoyment :  all  these  things  are  conceded.  Bat  it  is 
objected  to,  on  the  same  groand  as  horse-racing  and  theat- 
rical entertainments ;  that  we  are  to  look  at  amusements  as 
they  are,  and  not  as  they  might  be.  Horse-races  might  be 
so  managed  as  not  to  involve  cruelty,  gambling,  drunken- 
ness, and  other  vices.  And  so  might  theatres.  And  if  seri- 
ous and  intelligent  persons  undertook  to  regulate  them,  per- 
hapir  they  would  be  somewhat  raised  from  the  depths  to 
which  they  have  sunk.  But  with  the  weak  sdnse  of  moral 
obligation  existing  in  the  mass  of  society,  and  the  imperfect 
ideas  mankind  have  of  the  proper  use  of  amusements,  and 
the  little  self-control  which  men  or  women  or  children  prac- 
tice, these  will  not,  in  fact,  be  thus  regulated. 

And  dancing  is  believed  to  be  liable  to  the  same  objec- 
tions. As  this  recreation  is  actually  conducted,  it  does  not 
tend  to  produce  health  of  body  or  mind,  but  directly  the 
contrary.  If  young  and  old  went  out  to  dance  together  in 
open  air,  as  the  French  peasants  do,  it  would  be  a  very  dif- 
ferent sort  of  amusement  from  that  which  often  is  witnessed 
in  a  room  famished  with  many  lights  and  filled  with  guests — 
both  destroying  the*  healthful  part  of  the  atmosphere,  where 
the  young  collect,  in  their  tightest  dresses,  to  protract  for 
several  hours  a  kind  of  physical  exertion  which  is  not  habit- 
ual to  them.  During  this  process,  the  blood  is  made  to  cir- 
culate more  swiftly  than  usual,  in  circumstances  where  it  is 
less  peiiectly  oxygenized  than  health  requires ;  the  pores  of 
the  skin  are  excited  by  heat  and  exercise ;  the  stomach  is 
loaded  with  indigestible  articles,  and  the  quiet  needful  to 
digestion  withheld ;  the  diversion  is  protracted  beyond  the 
usual  hour  for  repose  ;  and  then,  when  the  skin  is  made  the 
most  highly  susceptible  to' damps  and  miasms,  the  company 
*  pass  from  a  warm  room  to  the  cold  night-air.  It  is  proba- 
ble that  no^single  amusement  can  be  pointed  out  combining 
so  many  injurious  particulars  as  this,  which  is  so  often  de- 


DQMSSnC  AMUSSHSirrff  AKD  SOCIAL  DUTEBS.  .443 

fended  as  a  healthful  one.  Even  if  parents  who  train  their 
children  to  dance  can  ke^p  then!  from  public  balls,  (which  is 
seldom  the  case,)  dancing,  as  ordinarily  conducted  in  private 
parlors,  in  most  cases  is  subject  to  nearly  the  same  mischiev- 
ous influences. 

The  spirit  of  Christ  is  th&t  of  self-denying  benevolence ; 
and  his  great  aim,  by  his  teachings  and  example,  was  to 
train  bis  followers  to  avoid  all  that  should  lead  to  sin,  espe- 
cially in  regard  to  the  weaker  ones  of  his  family.  Tet  he 
made  wiue  at  a  wedding,  attended  a  social  feast  on  the  Sab- 
bath,* reproved  excess  of  strictness  in  Sabbath-keeping  gen- 
erally, and  forbade  no  safe  and  innocent  enjoyment.  In  fol- 
lowing his  example,  the  rulers  of  the  family,  then,  will  intro- 
duce the  most  highly  exciting  amusements  only  in  circum- 
stances where  there  are  such  strong'  principles  and  habi^  of 
self-contrpl  that  the  enjoyment  will  not  involve  sin  in  the 
actor  or  needless  temptation  (p  the  weak. 

The  course  pursued  by  our  Puritan  ancestors,  in  the  period 
succeeding  their  first  perils  amidst  sickness  and  savages,  is 
an  example  that  may  safely  be  practiced  at  the  present  day. 
The  young  of  both  sexes  were  educated  tog^her  in  the  high- 
er branches,  in  country  academies;  and  very  often  the  closing 
exercises  were  theatricals,  in  which  the  pupils  were  perform- 
ers, and  their  pastors,  elders,  and  parents,  the  Andience.  So 
at  social  gatherings,  the  dance  was  introduced  before  minis- 
ter and  wife,  with  sniiling  approval.  The  roaring  fires  and 
broad  chimneys  provided  pure  air,  and  the  nine  o'clock  bell 
ended  the  festivities  that  gave  new  vigor  and  zest  to  life, 
while  the  dawn  of  the  next  day's  light  saw  all  at  their  posts 
of  duty,  with  heartier  strength  and  blither  spirits. 

No  indecent  or  nnhealthful  costumes  offended  the  eye,  no 
half-naked  dancera  of  dubious  morality  were  sustained  in  a 
life  of  dangerous  excitement,  by  the  money  of  Christian  peo- 
ple,.for  the  mere  amnselnent  of  their  night  hours.  No  shiv- 
ering drivers  were  deprived  of  comfort  and  sleep,  to  carry 
heme  the  midnight  foHowers  of  fashion ;  nor  was  the  quiet 
and  comfort  of  servants  in  hundreds  of  dwellings  invaded 

*  Luke  xTi.    In  reading  this  paMage,^  please  notice  what  kind  of  goeats 
are  to  be  invited  to  the  feast  that  Jesus  Christ  recommends. 


444 


THB  BOirSSKSSPBB  Am)  HXiJLTHKSSPSB. 


for  the  mere  amasement  of  their  raperiom  in  education  and 
advantages.  The  command  "  we  that  are  strong,  onght  to 
bear  the  infirmities  of  the  weak,  and  not  to  please  bar- 
selves,' Was  in  those  days  not  reversed.  Had  the  dram(^ 
and  the  dance  continued  to  be  regulated  by  the  rules  of 
temperance,  health,  and  Christian  benevolence,  as  in  the 
days  of  our  forefathers,  they  would  not  have  been  so  gener- 
ally banished  from  the  religious  world.  And  the  question 
is  now  being  discussed,  whether  they  can  be  so  regulated  at 
the  present  time  as  not  to  violate  the  laws  either  of  health 
or  benevolence.* 

'  In  regard  to  home  amusements,  card-playing  is  now  in- 
dulged in  by  many  conscientious  families  from  which  it  for- 
merly was  excluded,  and  for  these  reasons:  it  is  claimed 
that^this  is  a  quiet  home  amusement,  which  unites  pleasant- 
ly the  aged  with  the  young ;  that  it  is  not  now  employed  in 
respectable  society  for  gambling,  as  it  formerly  was;  that 
to  some  young  minds  it  is  a  peculiarly  fascinating  game,  and 
'  should  be  first  practiced  under  the  parental  care,  till  the  ex- 
citement of  novelty  is  passed,  thus  rendering  the  danger  to 
children  less  when  going^  into  the  worlds  and,  finally,  that 
habits  of  self-control  in  exciting  circumstances  may  and 
should  be  thus  cultivated  in  the  safety  of  home.  Many  par- 
ents who  have  taken  this  course  with  their  sons  in  early  life 
believe  that  it  has  proved  rather  a  course  of  safety  than  of 
danger.  Still,  as  there  is  great  diversity  of  opinion  among 
persons  of  equal  worth  and  intelligence,  a  mutual  spirit  of 
candor  and  courtesy  should  be  practiced.  The  sneer  at  big- 
otry and  narrowness  of  views,  on  one  side,  and  the  unchari- 
table implication  of  want  of  piety,  or  sense,  on  the  other,  are 
equally  ill-bred  and  unchristian.  Truth  on  this  subject  is 
best  promoted,  not  by  ill-natured  crimination  and  rebuke,  but 
by  calm  reason,  generous  candor,.forbearance,  and  kindness. 

*  Fanny  Kemble  Batler  remarked  to  the  writer  that  she  regarded  theatres 
wrong,  phiefl/  becaoBe  of  the  injury  inyoWed'to  the  actor^.  Can  a  Christif  n 
ro9ther  contribute  money  to  support  yoong  women  in  a  profession  from  which 
she  wonld  protect  her  own  daaghter,  as  from  degradation,  and  that,  too,  sim- 
ply for  the  amusement  of  herself  and  fiimily  ?  Would  this  be  foUowing  the 
self-sacrificing  benevolence  of  Christ  and  his  apostles? 


DOMESTIC  AUUSBMXKTS  AND  SOCIAL  DUTIBS.  4i5 

There  is  another  species  of  amasement,  which  a  large  por- 
tion of  the.religious  world  formerly  put  under  thef  same  con- 
demnation as  the  preceding.  This  is  novel-reading.  The 
confusion  and  difNsrence  of  opinion  on  this  subject  have 
arisen  from  a  want  of  clear  and  definite  distinctions.  Now, 
as  it  is  impossible  to  define  what  are  novels  and  what  are 
not,  so  as  to  include  one  class  of  fictitious  writings  and  ex- 
clude every  other,  it  is  impossible  to  lay  down  any  rule  re- 
specting them.  The  discussion,  in  fact,  turns  on  the  use  of 
those- works  of  imagination  which  belong  to  the  class  of  fic- 
titious narratives.  That  this  species  of  reading  is  DOt  only 
lawful,  but  necessary  and  useful,  is  settled  by  divine  exam- 
ples, in  the  parables  and  ailiegories  ixf  Scripture.  Of  course, 
the  question  must  be,  what  kind  of  fabulous  writings  must 
be  avoided,  and  what  allowed. 

In  deciding  this,  no  specific  jniles  can  be  given :  but  it 
must  be  a  matter  to  be  regulated  by  the  nature  and  circum- 
stances of  each  case.  No  works  of  fiction  which  tend  to 
throw  the  allurements  of  taste  and  genius  around  vice  and 
crime  should  ever  be  tolerated;  and  all  that  tend  to  give 
false  views  of  life  and  duty  should  also  be  banished.  Of 
those  which  are  written  for  mere  amusement,  presenting 
scenes  and  events  that  are  interesting,  and  exciting  and  hav- 
ing no  bad  moi*al  influence,  much  must  depend  on  the  char- 
acter and  circumstances  of  the  reader.  Some  minds  are  tor- 
pid and  phlegmatic,  and  need  to  have  the  imagination  stim- 
ulated: such  would  be  benefited  by  this  kind  of  reading. 
Others  have  quick  and  active  imaginations,  and  would  be  as 
much  injured  by  excess.  Some  persons  are  often  so  engaged 
,in  absorbing  interest,  that  any  thing  innocent,  which  will  for 
a  short  time  draw  off  the  mind,  is  of  the  nature  of  a  medi- 
cine ;  and  in  such  cases  this  kind  of  reading  is  useful. 

There  is  need,  also,  that  some  men  should  keep  a  super- 
vision of  the  current  literature  of  the  day,  as  guardians,  to 
warn  others  of  danger.  For  this  purpose,  it  is  more  suiti^ble 
for  editors,  clergymen,  and  teachers  to  read  indiscriminately, 
than  for  any  other  class  of  persons ;  for  they  are  the  guard- 
ians of  the  public  weal  in  matters  of  literature,  and  should 
be  prepared  to  advise  parents  and  young  persons  of  the  evils 


446  '    THE  ^OUSEKSXPXB  AKD  BBALTHKXBPEB. ' 

in  one  direotion,  and  of  the  good  in  another.  In  doing  thigy^ 
however,  they  are  boand  to  go  on  the  same  principles  which 
regulate  physicians  when  they  visit  infected  districts — using, 
every  precaution  to  prevent  injury  to  themselves ;  having  as 
little  to  do  with  pernicious  exposures  as  a  benevolent  re- 
gard to  others  will  allow;  and  faithfully  employing  all  the 
knowledge  and  opportunities  thus  gained  for  warning  and 
preserving  others.  There  is  much  danger,  in  taking  this 
course,  that  men  will  seek  the  excitement  of  the  imagination 
for  the  mere  pleasure  it  affords^  under  the  plea  of  preparing 
to  serve  the  public,  when  this  is  neither  thd  aim  nor  the 
result. 

In  regard  to  the  use  of  such  works  by  the  young,  as  a 
general  rule,  they  ought  not  to  be  allowed  to  any  except 
those  of  a  dull  and  phlegmatic  temperament,  until  the  solid 
parts  of  education  are  secured  and  a  taste  for  more  elevated 
reading  is  acquired.  If  these  stimulating  condiments  in  lit- 
erature be  freely  used  in  youth,  all  relish  for  more  solid 
reading  will  in  a  majority  of  cases  be  destroyed.  If  par- 
ents succeed  in  securing  habits  of  cheerful  and  implicit  obe- 
dience, it  will  be  very  easy  to  regulate  this  matter,  by  pro- 
hibiting the  reading  of  any  story-book  until  the  consent  of 
the  parent  is  obtained. 

The  most  successful  mode  of  forming  a  taste  for  suitable 
reading,  is  for  parents  to  select  interesting  works  of  history 
and  travels,  with  maps  and  pictures  suited  to  the  age  and 
attainments  of  the  young,  and  spend  an. hour  or  two  each 
day  or  evening  in  aiming  to  make  truth  as  interesting  as 
fiction.  Whoever  has  once  tried  this  method  will  find  that 
the  uninjured  mind  of  childhood  is  better  satisfied  with 
what  they  know  is  true,  when  wisely,  presented,  than  with 
the  most  exciting  novels,  which  they  know  ai'e  false. 
.  Perhaps  there  has  been  some  just  ground  of  objection  to 
the  course  often  pursued  by  parents  in  neglecting  to  pro- 
vide suitable  and  agreeable  substitutes  for  the  amusements 
denied.  But  there  is  a  great  abundance  of  safe,  healthful, 
and  delightful  recreations,  which  all  parents  may,  secure  for 
their  children.  Some  of  these  will  here  be  pointed  out. 
.    One  ef  the  most  useful  and  important  is  the  cultivation 


DOMESTIC  AMUSXMXNTB  AND  SOCIAL  DUTISS.         •  4^7 

of  flpwers  and  fmits. .  This,  especially  for  the  daughters  of 
a  family,  is  greatly  promotive  of  health  and  amusement. 
Many  young  ladies,  whose  habits  are  now  so  formed  that 
they  can  never  be. induced  to  a  course  of  active  domestic 
exercise  so  long  as. their  parents  are  able  to. hire  domestic 
service,  may  yet  be  led  to  an  employment  which  Ivill  tend 
to  secure  health  and  vigor  of  constitution,  by  fruits  and 
flowers.  .     . 

It  would  be  a  most  desirable  imm*ovement,  if  all  schools 
for  young  women  could  be  fumishea  with  suitable  grounds 
and  instruments  for  the  cultivation  of  fruits  and  flowers, 
and  every  inducement  oflered  to  engage  the  pupils  in  this 
pursuit.  No  father  who  wishes  to  have  his  daughters  grow 
up  to  be  healthful  women  can  take  a  surer  meth'od.to  secure 
this  end.  '  Let  him  set  apart  a  portion  of  his  ground  for 
fruits  and  flowers,  and  see  that  the  .soil  is  well  prepared  and 
dug  over,  and  all  the  rest  may  be  committed  to  the  care  of 
the  childrien.  These  would  need  to  be  provided  with  a  light 
hoe  and  rake,  a  dibble  or  garden  trowel,  a  watering-pot,  and 
means  and  opportunities  for  securing  seeds,  roots,  bulbs, 
buds,  and  grafts,  all  which  might  be  done  at  a  trifling  ex- 
pense. Then,  with  proper  encouragement  and  by  the  aid  of 
a  few  intelligible  and  practical  directions,  every  man  who 
has  even  half  an  aire  could  secure  a  small  Eden  around  his 
pnemises. 

Iq  pursuing  this  amusement  children  can  also  be  led  to 
acquire  many  useful  habits.  Early  rising  would,  in  many 
cases,  be  thus  secured ;  and  if  they  were  required  to  keep 
their  walks  and  borders  free  from  weeds  and  rubbbh,  habits 
of  order  and  neatness  would  be  induced.  Benevolent  and 
social  feelings  could  also  be  cultivated,  by  influencing  chil- 
dren to  share  their  fruits  and  flowers  with  friends  and  neigh- 
bors, as  well  as  to  distribute  roots  and  seeds  to  those  who 
have  not  the  means  of  procuring  them.  A  woman  or  a  child, 
by  giving  seeds  or  slips  or  roots  to  a  washerwoman,  or  a 
farmer's  boy,  thus  inciting  them  to  love  and  cultivate  fruits 
and  flowers,  awakens  a  new  and  refining  source  of  enjoyment 
in  minds  which  have  few  resources  more  elevated  than  mere 
physical  enjoyments.     Onr  Saviour  directs  us,  in  making 


448      THB  BOUSBKBBPBB  AND  HBALTHKBBPBB. 

feasts,  to  call,  not  the  rich,  who  can  recompense  again,  bat 
the  poor,  who  can  make.no  retnms.  So  children  shoald  be 
tadght  to  dispense  their  little  treasures  not  alone  to  compan^ 
ions  and  friends,  who  will  probably  return  similar  favors, 
bat  to  those  who  have  no  means  of  making  any  retam.  If 
the  rich,'who  acquire  a  love  for  the  enjoyments  of  taste  and 
have  the  means  to  gratify  it,  would  aim  to  extend  among 
the  poor  the  cheap  and  simple  enjoyment  of  fruits  and  flow- 
ers, our  country  would  soon  literally  ^  blossom  as  the  rose.'* 

If  the  ladies  of  a  neighborhood  would  unite  small  contri- 
butions, and  send  a  list  of  flower-seeds  and  roots  to  some  re^ 
spectable  and  honest  florist,  who  would  not  be  likely  to  turn 
them  off  with  trash,  they  could  divide  these  among  them- 
selves and  their  poor  neighbors,  so  as  to  secure  an  abundant 
variety  at  a  very  small  expense.  A  bag  of  flower-seeds, 
which  can  be  obtained  at  wholesale  for  four  cents,  would 
abundantly  supply  a  whole  neighborhood;  and, by  the  gath- 
ering of  seeds  in  the  autumn,  could  be  perpetuated. 

Another  very  elevating  and  delightful-  recreation  for  the 
young  is  found  in  mtc8ic.  Here  the  writer,  would  protest 
against  the  practice,  common  in  many  families,  of  having 
the  daughters  learn  to  play  on  the  piano,  whether  they  have 
a  taste  and  an  ear  for  music  or  not.  A  young  lady  who 
does  not  sing  well,  and  has  no  great  fondness  for  music,  does 
nothing  but  waste  time,  money,  and  patience  in  learning  to 
play  on  the  piano.  But  all  children  can  be  taught  to  sing 
in  early  childhood,  if  the  scientific  mode  of  teaching  music 
in  schools  could  be  more  widely  introduced,  as  it  is  in  Prus- 
sia, Oermany,and  Switzerland.  Then  young  children  could 
read  and  sing  music  as  easily  as  they  can  i*ead  language; 
and  might  take'  any  tune,  dividing  themselves  into  bands, 
and  sing  off  at  sight  the  endless  variety  of  music  which  is 
prepared.  And  if  parents  of  wealth  would  take  pains  to 
have  teachers  qualified  for  the  purpose,  who  should  teach  all 
the  young  children  in  the  community,  much  would  be  done 
for  the  happiness  and  elevation  of  the  rising  generation. 
•This  is  an  element  of  education  which  we  are  glad  to  know 
is,  year  by  year,  more  extensively  and  carefully  cultivated ; 
and  it  is  not  only  a  means  of  culture,  but  also  an  amusement. 


BOHSSnC  AMUSSMBNTS  AND  SOCIAL  BUTISS.  449 

which  children  relish  in  the  highest  degree^  and  which  they 
can  enjoy  at  hotne,  in  the  fields,  and  in  Visits  abroad. 

Another  domestic  amusement  is  the  collecting  of  shells, 
plants,  and  specimens  in  geol9g7  iEind  mineralogy,  for  th6 
formation  of  cabinets.  If  intelligent  parents  would  procnre 
the*simpler  works  which  have  been  prepared  for  the  young, 
and  study  them  with  their  children,  a  taste  for  such  t^crea- 
tions  would  soon  be  developed.  The  writer  has  seen  young 
boys  of  eight  and  ten  years  of  age  gathering  and  cleaning 
shells  from  rivei-s,  and  collecting  plants  and  mineralogical 
specimens,  with  a  delight  boi'dering  on  ecstasy;  and  there 
are  few^  if  any,  who  by  proper  influences  would  not  find  this 
a  source  of  ceaseless  delight  and  improvement. 

Another  resource  for  family  diversion  is  to  be  found  in 
the  various  games  played  by  children,  and  in  which  the 
joining  of  older  membera  of  the  family  is  i&lways  a  great  ad- 
vantage to  both  parties,  especially  those  in  the  open  air. 

All  medical  men  unite  in  declaring  that  nothing  is  more 
beneficial  to  health  than  hearty  laughter;  and  surely  our 
benevolent  Creator  would  not  have  provided  risibles,  and 
made  it  a  source  of  health  and  enjoyment  to  use  them,  if  it 
were  a  sin  so  to  do.  There  has  been  a  tendency  to  asceti- 
cism on  this  subject,  which  needs  to  be  removed.  Such 
commands  as  forbid  foolish  laughing  and  jesting,  ^^  which 
are  not  conveni^;)^,"  and '  which  fbrbid  all  idle  words  and 
vain  conversation,  can  not  apply  to  any  thing  except  what 
is  foolish,  vain,  and  useless.  But  jokes,  laughter,  and  spoHs, 
when  used  in  such  a  degree  as  tends  only  to  promote  health 
and  happiness,  are  neither  vain,  foolish,  or  ^not  conven- 
iehf  It  is  the  excels  of  these  things,  and  not  the  moder- 
ate use  of  them,  which  Scripture  forbids.  The  prevailing 
temper  of  the  mind  should  be  serious,  yet  cheerful;  and 
there  are  times  when  relaxation  and  laughter  are  not  only 
proper,  but  necessary  and  right  for  all.  There  is  nothing 
better  for  this  end  than  that  parents  find  older  persons 
should  join  in  the  sports  of  childhood.  Mature  ^minds  can 
always  make  such  diversions  more  entertaining  to  children, 
and  can  exert  a  healthful  moral  influence  over  their  minds; 
and  at  the  same  time  can  gain  exercise  and  amusement  for 


450  .   THE  B0USBKESPE9.AND  HBALTHKBEPEJEK. 

themselves.  Haw  lamentable  that  so  many  fathers^  who 
could  be  thus  useful  and  happy  with  tlieir  children,  throw 
away  such  oppottunities,  and  wear  out  soul  and  body  in  the 
pursuit  of  gain  or  fame  1 . 

Another  resource  for  children,  is  the  exercise  of  mechan- 
ical skill.  Fathers,  by  providing  tools  for  their  boy&,*and 
showing  them  how  to  make  wheelbarrows,  carts,  sleds,  and 
various  other  article?,  contribute  both  to  the  physical,  moral, 
Aud  social  improvement  of  their  children.  And  in  regard 
to  little  daughters,  much  more  can  be  done  in  this  way  than 
many  would  imagine.  The  writer,  blessed  with  the  exam- 
ple of  a  most  ingenious  and  industrious  mother,  had  not  only 
learned  before  the  age  of  twelve  to  make  dolls,  of  various 
soits  and  sizes,  but  to  out  and  fit  and  sew  every  article  that 
belongs  to  a  dolPs  wardrobe.  This,  which  was  done  for 
^mere  amusement,  secured  such  a  facility  in  mechanical  pur- 
suits, that  ever  afterward  the  cutting  and  fitting  of  any  ar- 
ticle of  dress,  for  either  sex,  was  accomplished  with  entire 
ease. 

When  a  little  girl  begins  to  sew,  her  mother  can  promise 
her  a  small  bed  and  pillow,  as  soon  as  she  has  sewed  a  patch 
quilt  for  them;  and  then  a  bedstead, ad  soon  as  she  has 
sewed  the  sheets  and  cases  for  pillows;  and  then  a  large 
doll  to  dress,  as  soon  as  she  has  made  the  under-garments; 
and  thus  go  on  till  the  whole  contents  of  the  baby-house  are 
earned  by  the  needle  and  skill  of  its  little  owner.  Thus  the 
task  of  learning  to  sew  will  become  a  pleasure ;  aud  every 
new  toy  will  be  earned  by  useful  exertion.  A  little  girl 
can  be  taught,  by  the  aid  of  patterns  prepared  for  the  pur- 
pose, to  cut  and  fit  all  articles  necessary  for  her  dolL  She 
can  also  be  provided  with  a  little  wash-tub  and  irons,  and 
thus  keep  in  proper  order  a  complete  miniature  doniestic 
establishment.  * 

Besides  these  recreations,  there  are  the  enjoyments  se- 
cured in  walking,  riding,  visiting,  and  many  other  employ- 
ments which  need  not  be  recounted.  Children,  if  trained  to 
be  healthful  and  industrious,  will  never  fail  to  discover  re^ 
sources  of  amusement;  while  their  guardians  should  lend 
their  aid  to  guide  and  restrain  them  from  excess.  . 


DOMESTIC  AMUSEHEirrS  AND  B0GX4L  DUTIBS.  451 

There  is  need  of  a  very  great  change  of  opinion  and  prac- 
-.  lice  in  this  nation,  in  regard  to  the  subjeot  of  social  and  do- 
mestic dnties.  Many  sensible  and  conscientious  men  spend 
all  their  time  abroad  in  business,  except  perhaps  an  honr  or 
so  at  night,  when  they  are.  so  fatigued  as  to  be  unfitted  for 
any  social-or  intellectual  enjoyment.  And  some  of  the  most 
conscientious  men  in;  the  country  will  add  to  their  profes- 
sional business  public  or  bebevolent  enterprises,  which  de- 
mand time, effort,N and  money;  and  then  excuse  themselves 
for  neglecting  all  care  of  their  children,  and  efforts  for  their 
own  intellectual  improvement,  or  for  the  improvement  of 
their  families,  by  the  plea  that  they  have  no  time  for  it. 

All  this  arises  from  the  waut  of  correct  notions,  of  the 
binding  obligation  of  our  social  and  domestic  duties.  The 
main  object  of  life  is  not  to  secure  the  various  gratifications 
of  appetite  or  taste,  but  to  form  such  a  character,  for  our- 
selves and  others,  as  will  secure  the  greatest  amount  of  pres- 
ent and  future  happiness.  It  is  of  far  more  consequence, 
then,  that  parents  should  be  intelligent,  social,  affectionate, 
and  agreeable  at  home  and  to  their  friends,  than  that  they 
should  earn  money  enough  to  live  in  a  large  house  and  have 
handsome  furniture.  It  is  far  more  needful  for  children  that 
a  father  should  attend  to  the  formation  of  their  character 
and  habits,  and  aid  in  developing  their  social,  intellectual, 
and  moral  nature,  than  it  is  that  he.  should  earn  money  to 
furnish  them  with  handsome  clothes  and  a  variety  of  tempt- 
ing food. 

It  will  be  wise  for  those  parents  who  find  little  time  to 
attend  to  their  children,  or  to  seek  amusement  and  enjoy- 
ment in  the  domestic  and  social  circle,  because  their  time  is 
so  much  occupied  with  pubHc  cares  or  benevolent  objects, 
to  inquire  whether  their  first  duty  is  not  to  train  up  their 
own  families  to  be  useful  members  of  society.  A  man  who 
neglects  the  mind  ^nd  morals  of  his  children  to  take  care  of 
the  public,  is  in  great  danger  of  coming  under  a  similar  con- 
demnation to  that  of  him  who,  neglecting  to  provide  for  his 
own  household, has  ''denied  the  faith, and  js  worse  than  an 
infidel." 

There  are  husbands  and  fathers  who  conscientiously  sub- 


452  THS   HOtJSBKSBPSB  AKD  HBALTBJB^XSPEB. 

tract  time  &om  their  business  to  spend  at  home,  in  reading 
with  their  wives  and  children,  and  in  domestio  amasements 
which  at  once.rtfresh  and  improve.  The  children  of  such 
parents  will  grow  up  with  a  love  of  home  and  kindred  which ' 
will  be  the  greatest  safeguard  against  future  temptations, 
as  weU  as  the  purest  source  of  earthly  enjoyment. 

There  are  families,  also,  who  make  it  a  definite  object  to 
keep  up  family  attachments  after  the  children  are  scattered 
abroad,  and  in  some  cases  secure  the  means  for  doing  this 
by  saving  money  which  would  otherwise  have  been  spe^J; 
for  superfluities  of  food  or  dress.  Some  families  have  adopt- 
ed, for  this  end,  a  practice  which,  if  widely  imitated,  would 
be  productive  of  much  enjoyment.  The  method  is  this:  On 
the  first  day  of  each  month,  some  member  of  the  family,  at 
each  extreme  point  of  dispersion,  takes  a  folio  sheet,  and  fills 
a  part  of  a  page.  This  is  sealed  and  mailed  to  the  next 
family,  who  read  it,  add  another  contribution,  and  then  mail 
it  to  the  next.  Thus  the  family  circular,  once  a  month,  goes 
from  each  extreme  to  all  the  members  of  a  widely-dispersed  . 
family,  and  each  member  becomes  a  sharer  in  the  joys,  sor- 
rows, plans,  and  pursuits  of  all  the  rest  At  the  same  time, ' 
frequent  family  meetings  ai*e  sought;  and  the  expense  thus 
incurred  is  cheerfully  niet  by  retrenchments  in  other  direc- 
tions. The  sacrifice  of  some  unnecessary  physical  indul- 
gence will  often  purchase  many  social  an'd  domestic  enjoy-' 
ments,  a  thousand  times  more  elevating  and  delightful  than 
the  retrenched  luxury. 

There  is  no  social  duty  which  the  Supreme  Lawgiver 
more  strenuously  urges  than  hospitality  and  kindness  to' 
strangers,  \|^ho  are  classed  with  the  widow  and  the  father- 
less as  the  special  objects  of  Divine  tenderness.  There  are 
some  reasons  why  this  duty  peculiarly  demands  attention 
from  the  American  people. 

Reverses  of  fortune,  in  this  land,  are  so  frequent  and  un- 
expected, and  th^  hiabits  of  the  people  are  so  migratory,  that 
there  are  very  many  in  every  part  of  the  country  who,  hav- 
ing seen  all  theii^  temporal  plans  and  hopes  crushed,  are  now 
pining  among  strangers,  bereft  of  wonted  comforts,  without 
friends,  and  without  the  sympathy  and  society  so  needful 


DOMESTIC  AlIUSBMSNTS  AND  30CUL  DUTIES.       .    453 

to  wonnded  spirits.  Sach,  too  frequently,  sojoam  loDg  and 
loDely/with  no  comforter  but  Him  who  '^knoweth  the  heart 
of  a  stranger. '^ 

Whenever,  therefore,  new-i^omers  enter  a  community,  in- 
quiry should  immediately  be  made  as  to  whether  they  have 
friends  or  associates,  to  render  sympathy  and  kind  atten- 
tions ;  and,  when  there  is  any  need  for  it,  the  ministries  of 

'  kind  neighborliness  should  immediately  be  offered.  And  it 
should  be  remembered  that  the  first  days  of  a  stranger's  so- 
journ are  the  most  dreary,. and  that  civility  an^  kindness 
are  doubled  in  value  by  being  offered  at  an  early  period. 

In  so^sial  gatherings  the  claims  of  the  stranger  aire  too  apt 
to  be  forgotten ;  especially  in  cases  where  there  are  no  pe- 
culiar attractions  of  personal  appearance,  or  talents,  or  high 
standing.    Such  an  one  should  be  treated  with  attention,  be- 

'  cau^e  he  is  a  stranger;  and  when  communities  learn  to  act 
more  from  principle,  and  less  from  selfish  impulse,  on  this 
isubject,  the  sacred:  claims  of  the  stranger  will  be  less  fre- 
quently forgotten,  v 

,The  most  agreeable  hospitality  to  visitors  who  become 
immates  of  a  fatnily,  is  thut  which  puts  them  entirely  at 
ease.  This  ta,n  toever  be  the  case  where  the  guest  perceives 
that  the  order  of  family  arrangement  is  essentially  altered, 
aqd  that  time,  comfort,  and  convenience  are  sacrificed  for 
his  accomtnodatfon. 

Offering  this  best  to  visitors,  showing  a  polite  regard  to 
every  wish  expressed,  and  giving  precedence  to  them,  in  all 
matters  of  comfort  and  convenience,  can  be  easily' combined 
with  the  easy  freedom:  which  makes  the  stranger  feel  as  if  at 
home;  and  this  is  the  perfection  of  hospitable  estertainment. 


454  THJB  HOUSBKSXPSB  AlSfJ}  HKALIHKXXFBA. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

LAWS   OF  HSiXTH  AND   HAPPINESS. 

It  is  hoped  a  day  will  come  when  these  laws  of  God  will 
be  put  on  tablets  in  school-rooms  and  houses,  as  are  the  ten 
commandments  in  our  churches,  and  that  all  children  will  be 
trained  fully  to  understand  them,  and  then  to  commit  them 
to  memory. 

ZaiDS  of  Health  for  the  Banes. 

Exercise  daily  in  pure  air,  because  it  nourishes  and  gives 
strength  to  the  bones.  Do  not  habitually  keep  the  spine 
out  of  its  natural  position,  either  when  sleeping  or  sitting, 
because  deformity  and  disease  are  thus  induced.  Never 
compress  the  ^hest  or  ribs,  because  it  diminishes  chest  breath- 
ing, and  thus  lessens  the  needful  amount  of  nourishing  oxy- 
gen ;  and  for  the  same  reason,  sapport  all  clothing  from  the 
shoulders,  because  any  pressure  on  the  hips  and  abdomen 
lessens  abdominal  breathing.  .^ 

Never  wear  high  heels,  because  it  tends  to  produce  inter- 
nal displacement,  to  distort  the  foot,  the  spine,  and  the  an- 
kles, causes  corns  and  bunions,  and  makes  a  graceful  walk 
impossible.  An  unfailing  cure  for  corns  and  bunions  is  once 
a  we6k  to  soak  the  foot  half  an  hour  in  four  quarts  of  quite 
warm  watei^  in  which  is  dissolved  a  bit  of  soda  the  size  of 
a  large  walnut.  Three  or  four  times  will  relieve  and  prob- 
ably cure.  .         . 

Laws  of  HeaUh  for  ihs  MaacUs. 

Supply  pure  blood  and  healthful  food,  because  these  are 
indispensable  to  their  health  and  strength.  Exercise  all  the 
muscles,  so  as  to  secure  the  healthful  development  of  all,  and 
avoid  weakening  them  by  excessive  exercise.  Chalige  inact- 
ive habits  not  suddenly,  but  by  a  gradual  increase  of  exer- 


LAWS  OF  HEALTH  AUD  HAPPINESS.  .465 

cise.  When  loo  weak  to  exercise,  empUHy  ani  operator  to  in- 
crease the  flow  of  blood  to  the  mnsoles  b j  pressure  and  rub- 
bing. Never  compress  any  of  the  muscles  bj  tight  clothing, 
because  it  diminishes  the  flow  of  blood  and  thus  of  nutri- 
ment. As  pure  air  and  light  cause  increase  of  strength,  let 
all  exercise  be  by  daylight  Avoid  increase  of  exercise  when 
the  air  is  impure,  as  it  usually  is  in  night-gatherings. 

LavQB  of  HeaUh  for  the,  iJungs.    . 

It  is  proved'by  many  experiments  that  a  full-grown  person 
vitiates  a  hogshead  of  air  every  hour ;  therefore,  so  ventilate 
every  room  that  each  inmate  shall  have  the  needful  pure  air 
,  at  this  rate,  especially  by  night.  Take  care  so  to  dress,  to 
sit,  and  to  lie,  th&t  the  lungs  shall  not  be  compressed,.and 
thus  be  deprived  of  the  needful  nourishing  oxygen. 

Xkiim  ofJSealthfor  the  Digestive  Organs. 

Supply  every  part  of  the  body  with  ifs  peculiar  nutriment ; 
nitrogen  for  muscle,  phosphoinis  for  brain  and  nerves,  carbon 
for  the  lungs,  and  silica,  iron,  etc.,  for  other  parts.  Let  the 
proportions  follow  the  example  given  in  wheat,  milk,  and 
eggs,  which  have  all  the  elements  needed  and  in  proper  pro- 
portions. According  to  this  rule,  use  unbolted  flour  rather 
than  superfine.  In  selecting  food,  have  reference  to  age,  cli- 
mate, and  state  of  the  health.  Meals  should  be  at  least  five 
hours  apart,  that  the  stomach  may  rest.  Do  not  eat  between 
meals,  as  it  mixes  partly  digested  food  with  the*  new  supply, 
^  aft  impedes  digestion.  Do  not  eat  too  much,  because  it  im- 
pedes digestion,  and  overtaxes,  and  thus  weakens,  the  organs 
that  roust  throw  off  the  excess.  Eat  only  to  satisfy  hunger, 
and  not  to  qualify  thQ  palate  after  hunger  is  satisfied.  Do 
not  eat  a  great  variety,  because  digestion  is  easier  and  more 
perfect  with  but  few  articles.  Let  there  be  a  vanety  which 
is  successive,  and  not  at  one  meal 

Do  not  require  children  to  eat  what  they  do  not  love,  be- 
cause food  which  is  relished  is  better  digested  and  more 
healthful.  If  very  thirsty,  drink  water  abundantly  before 
eating,  but  sparingly  at  meals — only  one  tumbler  or  cup. 
Very  hot  food  or  drink  debilitates  the  nerves  of  the  teeth 


456      THB  H0U8BKXXPXB  AND  HSALIHKSXPBR, 

I 

% 

and  stomach.  Very,  cold  water,  oricej  after  a  full  meal,  in- 
terferes with  digestion. 

Avoid  stimulating  drinks,  or  use  them  very  weak.  A 
gradual  diminution  of  strength  will  modify  the  taste,  so  that 
a  weak  dilution  will  be  relished  as  much,  or  more,  than  a 
strong.  Drink  only  pure  water ;  filter  impure  water  through 
sand  and  powdered  charcoal.  Free  drinking  of  pure  cold 
water  between  meals  tends  to  purify  Iho  blood  and  strength- 
en the  nervous  system. 

All  the  yeast-powders  for  raising  bread  are  nQjb  so  healths 
ful  as  hop-yeast ;  and  those  recommended  by  Liebig  A  Hbs- 
ford  do  not  restore  several  important  elements  lost  by  bolting. 

Laws  of  HeaUhfor  the  Skin. 

Wash  the  whole  body  either  morning  or  night;  because 
its  capillaries  contain  more  blood  and  nerve  matter  than  nil 
the  rest  of  the  body;  because  air  and  light  cleanse  and  nour- 
ish them;  and  because  when  in  full. health  the  skin  throws 
off  more  than  half  the  refuse  of  the  body,  which,  if  not  thus 
expelled,  goes  to  the  lungs,  or  bowels,  or  kidneys  to  be  ex- 
pelled, often  causing  disease.  Bath-rooms  are  a  luxury ;  but 
a  wet  towel,  a,nd  a  screen  for  privacy,  are  equally  useful. 
Chilling  thd  $kio  closes  its  pores,  Causing  colds,  diarrhoea,  or 
catarrh.  Immediate  and  free  perspiration  is  the  safest  rem- 
edy. Rely  on  bathing,  exercise,  pure  air,  and  proper  food, 
rather  than  on  warm  clothing  and  warm  rooms.  But  per- 
sons weakened  by  age  or  nervous  debility  must  wear  more 
clothing  than  others,  and  'bathe  in  a  warm  room,  or,  bet^, 
by  an  open  fire.  Any  diminution  of  clothing  should  be  made 
in  the  moming^when  thie  body  is  most  vigorous.  As  the 
body  radiates  its  beat  to  adjacent  cold  walls,  be  careful  to 
avoid  sitting  near  them,  except  when  well  protected.  "Many 
take  colds  or  rheumatism  by  fitting  near  church  Or  other 
cold  walls.  Taking  air  and  sun  baths  tend  to  strengthen 
the  nerves,  and  thus  the  whole  body.  Avoid  a  continuous 
current  of  air  on  any  part  of  the  body,  aa  the  withdrawal  of 
heat  causes  disease  in  the  part  thus  chiUed. 

Impose  bed-olothing  and  garments  worn  next  the  skid  to 
ifresb  air,  wbicti  removes  the  cfxhalatidiis  of  th0  skin  that  otb- 


LAWS  OF  HBALTH  AND  HAPPINB88.  "      457 

erwise  would  be  re- absorbed. .  Straw  and  hair  mattresses, 
and  cotton  comforters,  should  also  be  aired  occasionally. 
The  white  dost  thrown  oat  by  beating  them  is  the  scales 
and  other,  refuse  matter  from  the  skin. 

In  epidemics,  nourishing  food  and  cleansing  tfie  skin  less* 
ens  danger. 

•      •        .'  '         '  • 

ZaiD9  o/BeaUhfor  the  Brain  and  Iferves. 

Healthful  food,  a  clean  skin,  and  daily  exercise  in  the  open 
idr,  are  indispensable.  Take  seven  or  eight  hours  of  sleep 
by  night,  and  not  by  day;  and  when  taxed  by  great  care,  la- 
bor, or  isorrow,  sleep  as  much  as  you  can,  for  thus  the  brain 
and  nerves  reooyef  strength.  • 

Always  have  some  time  each  day  deyoted  to  some  amuse- 
ment, and  this  out-of-doors  if  practicable.'  Laughter  is  a 
very  healthful,  exercise. 

Have  system  and  order  in  your  employments,  and  let 
there  be  variety,  so  that  no  one  set  of  nerves  be  wearied  and 
another  set  unemployed. 

Let  the  intellect  and  feelings  be .  engaged  in  safe  .and 
worthy  objects,  and  so  exercise  all  the  faculties  as  to  secure 
a  well-balanced  mind  in  a  healthful  body.  In  all  cases  of 
disease,  trust  more  to  obedience  to  these  rules  than  to  medi- 
cines,-which  should  be  rarely  used. 

Zaujs  of  Health  for  the  Theth,  Eye»^  and  Hair. 

'  Never  sleep  till  the  teeth  are  cleaned  with  pure  water,  a 
brush,  and  a  piece  of  thread  or  a  tooth-pick  to  remove  what 
lodges  between  the  teeth.  It  would  be  well  to  do  this  after 
each  meaL  Avoid  very  hot  food  as  causing  decayed  teeth. 
No  tooth-powder  is  ne^ed  if  these  directions  are  obeyed. 

Accustom  -the  eyes  gradually  to  as  much  light  as  they 
can  bear  without  pain.  Light  is  healthful,  especially  to  the 
eyes,  and  dark  rooms  make  weak  eyes.  If  the  eyes  are  weak 
£rom  excessive  use,  continue  to  use  them,  bht  only  a  little  at 
a  time,  with  intervals  of  rest ;  for  eyes,  like  all  the  rest  of 
the  body,  grow  weak  by  disuse.  Always  shade  weak  eyes 
from  brilliant  lights,  especially  when  reading.  For  inflamed 
eyes  or  eyelids^  do  not  use  what  others  recommend,  but  con- 

^0 


458  THS.  B0U8SSJBSPJBB  AND  BEALTHKSSFSB. 

salt  a  physician ;  as^  a  remedy  for  one  may  be  ibjarioasfor 
another  case.  Gentle  rubbing  around  and  over  the  eyes 
draws  the  blood  there,  and  tends  to  increase  strength.  Do 
it  only  for  two  minutes  at  a  time,  three  or  four  times  a  day. 
Bathing  the  eyes  in  cold  water  strengthens. their  nerves. 

Never  use  hair  mixtures  until  some  chemist  has  tested 
them  and  assures  you  there  is  no  lecui  in  them.  Many  per- 
sons have  had  paralysis  and  other  evils  by  using  hair  mix- 
tures contliinitig  lead  to  restore  t^e  color.  Brushinig  and 
washing  the  skin  of  the  hair,  and  thus  bringing  the  blood  to 
nourish  its  roots,  is  a  safe  and  sure  method,  and  those  mix- 
tures that  seem  to  do  good  are  efficacious  chiefly  because 
the  directions  always  require  rubbing  and  cleansing  the  skin 
of  the  hair. 

Remember  that  these  laws  of  health  are  laws  of  God,  and 
that  when  you  disobey  them  you  sin  against  your  heavenly 
Father,  who  loves  you,  and  is  grieved  when  you  injure- your 
own  soul  and  body.  Therefore  pray  to  be  enabled  to  obey 
yourselves,  and  to  teach  these  his  laws  to  all  under  your 
care,  both  by  precept  and  example. 


COlfVpBT  FOB  ▲  PISCOUSAGSD  HOUSSKJEJEPSB.  459 


CHAPTER  XXXn. 

-  COMFORT  FOB  ▲  BISGOXTBAGBD  HOUSEKEEPBB. 

Thsbb  is  DO  doabt  of  the  fact,  that  American  housekeep- 
ers have  far  greater  trials  and  difficalt^es  to  meet  than  those 
of  any  other  nation.  And  it  is  probable  that  many  of  those 
who  may  read  over  the  methods  of  thrift  and  economy 
adopted  by  some  of  the  best  housekeepers  in  oar  land,  and 
detailed  in  this  work,  will  with  a  sigh  exclaim,  that  it  is  im- 
possible  for  them  even  to  attempt  any  such  plans. 

Others  may  be  stimulated  by  the  advice  and  examples 
presented,  and  may  start  off  with  much  hope  and  courage, 
to  carry  out  a  plan  of  great  excellence  and  appropriateness^ 
and,  afler  trying  a  while,  will  become  discouraged  by  the 
thousand  obstacles  in  their  way,  and  give  up  in  despair. 

A  still  greater  number  will  like  their  own  way  bestj  and 
think  it  is  folly  to  attempt  to  change. 

For  those  who  wish  they  caidd  become  systematic,  neat, 
and  thorough  housekeepers,  and  would  like  to-  follow  out 
successfully  the  suggestions  found  in  this  work,  and  for  those 
who  have  tried,  or  will  try,  and  find  themselves  baffled  and 
discouraged,  these  words  of  comfort  are  offered. 

Perhaps  you  find  yourself  encompassed  by  such  sort  of 
trials  as  these :  Your  house  is  inconvenient,  or  destitute  of 
those  facilities  for  doing  work  well  which  you  need,  and  you 
can  not  command  the  means,  to  supply  these  deficiencies. 
Your  domestics  are  so  imperfectly  qualified  that  they  never 
can  do  any  thing  ^im^  rt^A^,  unless  you  stand  by  and  attend 
to  every  thing  yourself,  and  you  can  not  be  present  in  par- 
lor, nursery^  and  kitchen  all  at  once.  Perhaps  yon  are  fre- 
quently left  without  any  cook,  or  without  a  chamber-maid, 
and  sometimes 'without  any  hands  but  your  own*  to  do  the 
work,  and  there  is  <)onsUUit  jostling  and  change  from  this 
causa    And  pediaps  you  can  not  get  supplies,  either  from 


460      TAB  H0U8BKSSPSB  AND  HBALTHKBBPBB. 

garden  or  market,  sucli  as  yon  need,  and  all  your  calculations 
fail  in  tbat  direction. 

And  perhaps  your  children  are  sickly,  and  rob  you  of  rest 
by  night,,or  your  heaUh  is  so  poor  that  you  feel  no  energy 
or  spirits  to  make  exertions.  And  perhaps  you  never  have 
had  any  training  in  domestic  affairs,  and  can  not  understand 
how  to  work  yourself,  nor  how  to  direct  others.  And  when 
you  go  for  aid  to  experienced  housekeepers,  or  cookery- 
books,  you  are  met  by  such  sort  of  directions  as  these: 
*^Take  a  pinch  of  this,  and  a  little  of  that,  and  considercMe 
of  the  other,  and  cook  them  till  they  are  done  abovJt  righi.^ 
And  when  you  can  not  succeed  in  following  such  indefinite 
instructions,  you  find  your  neighbors  and  husband  wonder- 
ing how  it  is  that,  when  you  have  one,  two,  or  three  domes- 
tics, there  should  be  so  much  difficulty  about  housekeeping, 
and  such  constant  trouble,  and  miscalculation,  and  mistake. 
And  then,  perhaps,  you  lose  your  patience  and  your  temper, 
and  blame  others,  and  others  blame  you,  and  so  every  thing 
seems  to  be  in  a  snarl 

Now  the  first  thing  to  be  said  for  your^  comfort  is,  that 
you  reaUy  have  great  trials  to  meet;  trials  that  entitle  yoii 
to  pity  and  sympathy,  "while  it  is  the  fault  of  others  more 
than  your  own  that  you  are  in  this  very  painful  and  diffi- 
cult situation.  You  have  been  as  cruelly  treated  as  the  Is- 
raelites were  by  Pharaoh,  when  he  demanded  bricks  withdut 
furnishing  the  means  to  make  them. 

Tou  are  like  a  young,  inexperienced  lad  who  ils  required 
to  superintend  all  the  complicated  machinery  of  a  manufac- 
tory which  he  never  was  trained  to  understand,  and  on  pen- 
alty of  losipg  reputation,  health,  and  all  he  values  most. 

Neither  your  parents,  teachers,  or  husband  have  trained 
you  for  the  place  you  fill,  nor  furnished  yon  with  the  knowl- 
edge or  assistance  peeded  to  enable  you  to  meet  all  the  com- 
plicated and  untried  duties  of  your  lot.  A  young  woman 
who  has  never  had  the  care  of  a  child,  never  done  house- 
work, never  learned  the  numberless  processes  that  are  indis- 
pensable to  keep  domestic  affairs  in  regular  order,  never 
done  any  thing  but  attend  to  books,  drawing,  aiid  music  at 
8oh6ol,  ahd  visiting  and  company  after  she  left  school— ^such 


CQIIFOBT  FOB  ▲  DISOOUfiAGBD  HOTJSEKBSPEB.  461 

an  OQO  is  as  ubprepared  to  take  charge  of  a  nursery,  kitchen, 
and  family  establishment,  as  she  is  to  take  charge  of  a  man- 
of 'WOT.  And  the  chief  blame  rests  with  those  who  placed 
her  90  unprepared  in  such  trying  circumstances.  Therefore, 
you  have  a  right  to  feel  that  a  large  part  of  these  evils  are 
more  your  misfortune  than  your  fault,  and  that  they  entitle 
you  to  sympathy  rathe):  than  blame. 

The  next  word  of  comfort  is,  the  assurance  that  you  can 
do. every  07ie  of  your  duties,  and  do  them  well,  and  the  fol- 
lowing is  the  method. by  which  you  can  do  it.  In  the  firat 
place,  make  up  your  mind  that  it  never  is  your  duty  to  do 
any  thing  more  than  you  can,  or  in  any  better  manner  than 
the  best  you  can.  And  whenever  you  have  done  the  best 
you  can,  you  have  done  ioell;  and  it  is  all  that  man  should 
require,  and  certainly  all  that  your  heavenly  Father  does 
require.  » 

The  next  thing  is,  for  you  to  make  out  an  inventory  of  all 
the  things  that  need  to  be  done  in  your  whole  establish- 
ment. Then  calculate  what  things  you  find  you  can  not  do, 
and  strike  them  off  the  list,  as  what  are  not  among  your  du- 
ties. Of  those  that  remain,  select  a  t^ertain  number  that  you 
think  you  can  do  exactly  as  they  need  to  be  dohej  and  among 
these  be  sure  that  you  put  the  making  of  good  bread.  This 
every  housekeeper  can  do,  if  she  will  only  determine  to 
do  it. 

Make  a  selection  of  certain  things  that  you  will  persevere 
in  having  done  as  well  as  they  can  be  done^  And  let  these  be 
only  so  many  as  you  feel  sure  you  can  succeed  in  attempt- 
ing. Then  make  up  your  mind  that  all  the  rest  must  go 
along  as  they  do,  until  you  get  more  time,  strength,  and  ex- 
perience, to  mcrease  the  list  of  things  that  you  determine 
shall  always  be  well  done. 

By  this  course  yon  will  have  the  comfort  of  feeling  that 
in  some  respects  you  are  as  good  a  housekeeper  as  you  can 
be,  while  there  will  be  a  cheering  progress  in  gaining  oq  all 
that  portion  of  your  affairs  that  are  left  at  loose  ends.  You 
will  be  able  to  measure  a  gradual  advance,  and  be  encour- 
aged by  success.  Many  housekeepers  fail  entirely  by  ex- 
pecting to  do  every  thing  well  at  ftrst^  when  neither  their 


462  THE  HOUSEKSSPSB  Aim  BXALTHKXXPXB. 

knowledge  or  strength  is  adequate,  and  so  they  fail  every, 
/where,  and  finally  give  up  in  despair. 

Are  you  not  only  a  housekeeper,  but  a  mother  f  Ob,  sa- 
cred and  beautiful  name  I  how  many  cares  and  responsibili- 
ties are  associated  .with  it  1  And  how  many  elevating  and 
sublime  anticipations  and  hopes  are  given  to  inspire  and  to 
cheer!  You  are  training  young  minds  whose  plastic  tex- 
ture will  receive  and  retain  every  impression  you  make ;  who 
•  will  imitate  your  feelings,  tastes,  habits,  and  opinions;  and 
who  will  transmit  what  they  receive  from  yoa  to  their  chil- 
dren, to  pass  again  to  the  next  generation,  and  then  to  the 
next,  until  a  tffhole  nation  may  possibly  receive  its  charac- 
ter and  destiny  from  your  hands !  No  imperial  queen  ever 
stood  in  a  more  sublime  and  responsible  position  than  yoo 
now  occupy  in  the  eye  of  Him  who  reads  the  end  from  the 
beginning,  and  who  is  appointing  all  the  trials  and  discipline 
of  your  lot,  not  for  purposes  which  are  visible  to  your  limit- 
ed ken,  but  in  view  of  all  the  consequences  that  are  to  result 
from  the  character  which  yon  form,  and  are  to  transmit  to 
your  posterity  1 

And  you  who  never  tsre  to  bear  a  mother's  name,  but  must 
toil  for  the  children  of  others  with  little  earthly  honor  or  rc- 
'iward,  remember  that  the  blessed  Lord  ''  took  upon  himself 
the  form  of  a  servant  ;^  that  he  came  ''  not  to  be  ministered 
to,  but  to  minister ;''  that  those  who  voluntarily  take  the 
lowest  place  are  most  likely  to  stand  highest  at  last ;  that4tll 
sincere  service  is  accepted  and  precious ;  and  that  our  labors 
in  this  life  are  to  bear  their  fruits  through  everlasting  ages. 

Remember  that  you  have  a  Father  in  heaven  who  sym- 
pathizes in  all  your  cares,  pities  your  griefs,  makes  allowr 
ances  for  your  defects,  and  is  endeavoring  by  trials,  as  well 
as  by  blessings,  to  fit  you'  for  the  right  fulfillment  of  your 
l)igh  and  holy  calling. 

But  the  heaviest  earo  and  sorrow  that  ever  oppress  a 
woman  who,  as  housekeeper,  has  the  control  of  children  and 
servants,  are  her  responsibilities  as  to  the  eternal  destiny  of 
those  guided  by  her  teachings  and  example.  Our  cruel  war 
took  thousands  of  our  noblest  youth  to  terrible  sufferings,  in 
prisons  and  battle-fields,  and  to  a  toi*tu^ing  death.    Multi- 


CO^POBt  FOR  A  DIS<30URAQED  HOUSEKESPBB.         463 

t tides  of  these  saerificed' their  all  to  save  their  coantiy  a& 
really  as  did  oar  Lord,  when  he  Buffered  for  the  whole  world. 
And  ydt  many  of  these  martyred  heroes  gave  no  evidence  of 
that  change  which  their  bereaved  parents  were  trained  to 
believe  could  alone  save  their  beloved  ones  from  everlasting 
misery.  How  many  mothers  have  hid  in  silent  anguish  this 
never-healed  wound— this  crushing  sorrow ! 

The  most  available  remedy  for  such  distress  is  much  that 
is  suggested  in  Chapters  XXV.  and  XXYIII. ;  and  the  fol- 
lowing queries  may  aid  in  obtaining  the  true  teachings  of 
the  Bible  on  these  momentous  questions : 

Are  the  definitions  given  in  those  chapters  of  the  words 
righJty  righteous^  love,  faiih^  and  ripenlance^  in  reference  to 
future  eternal  safety;  sustained  by  common  use  and  by  our 
dictionaries  ?  What  texts  illustrate  the  distinction  between 
right  as  to  motives,  or  intention  and  rigJit  as  to  resulting  con- 
sequences ? 

What  texts  show  that  wrong  actions,  owing  to  mistaken 
opinions  as  to  what  is  right,  do  not  necessarily  destroy  evi- 
dence of  a  righteous  or  virtuous  character  ? 

What  texts  show  that  the  righteous  character  which  se- 
cures eternal  safety  consists,  not  chiefly  in  emotional  love  to 
God,  but  rather  in  a  controlling  principle  of  obedience  to  his 
will,  as  manifested  in  both  his  natural  and  revealed  laws? 

What  texts  show  that  at  some  future  penod  (it  may  be 
millions  of  ages  hence)  there  will  be  a  final  separation  of  the 
righteous  and  the  wicked  ? 

Are  there  any  texts  which  show  that  in  the  intervening 
ages  there  will  be  no  improvement  of  character  for  those 
who  fail  in  this  life  ?  and  are  there  any  which  show  that  there 
may  be  for  some,  if  not  for  all  ? 

Are  there  any  texts  which  show  that  the  character  of  ev- 
ery human  being  is  fixed  at  death? 

Are  there  any  texts  which  show  that  some  of  mankind 
will  be  forever  sinful,  and  forever  separated  from  the  right- 
eous ? 

Are  there  any  texts  which  show  that  all  mankind  ^ill 
finally  become  righteous,  and  thus  forever  happy  ? 

When  all  the  texts  in  the  Bible  on  these  questions  are  col* 


464         .     THE  H0U8EKXEPEB  AND  HJBALTHKXJEPSB. 

lected  and  arrabged,  when  applying  the. roles  of  interpreta- 
tion, these  considerations  are  to  be  noticed : 

1.  That  the  word  '^  Hades,"  in  many  cases,  is  translated 
^^Hell,"  when  its  proper  translation  is  ^  the  place  of  departed 
spirij;8."  The  story  of  Dives  and  Xazams,  and  of  the  re- 
petitant  thief,  can  be  properly  explained  only  by  ascertaining 
the  meaning  the  Jews  attached  to  the  words  Hades  and  Par- 
adise; for  Christ,  of  coarse,  expected  them  to  be  thus  under- 
stood. 

Again,  the  meaning  of  many  texts  depends  on  the  subject 
before  the  mind  of  the  speaker.  Thus  when  Christ  replied 
to  the  question,^  Are  there  few  that  be  saved  ?"  did  he  refer 
to  all  beings  in  the  whote  universe,  or  to  the  present  world, 
and  to  that  present  time  when  'Hhe  righteous"  were  com- 
paratively a  small  portion  of  mankind  ? 

Again,  much  that  relates  to  the  spirit-world  can  not  be 
fully  taught  or  coi^prehended.  St.  Paul  says  that,  when 
caught  up  into  the  third  heaven,  he  saw  things  not 'law- 
ful "  to  utter,  or,  as  some  interpret  it,  **  impossible "  to 
utter. 

Again,  the  results  thus  gained  from  the  Bible  should  be 
considered  in  connection  with  the  analogies  of  nature  and 
God's  providence  in  regard  to  the  continued  development  of 
mind  aiid  character,  which  in  this  life  has  so  short  and  im- 
perfect a  period,  and  in  most  cases  so  many  and  great  disad- 
vantages. 

In  completing  such  an  investigation,  mnch  time  and  mental 
effort  may  be  required,  but  is  there  any  employment  of  time 
and  intellect  so  important  as  this  end  ? 


In  offering  these  suggestions,  the  author  may  refer  to  her 
own  extended  observation  of  the  results  of  rdigioua  educa- 
tional training  in  the  family,  as  witnessed  in  the  diverse  sects 
with  which  she  has  mingled,  whether  Catholic,  Protestant, 
or  «Tewish  \  for  she  counts  excellent  and  intelligent  friends  in 
aU.  ' 

She  finds  all  united  in  the  h^M^iot  a  future  life  in  which 


COXFOBT  FOB  ▲  PISCOURicGSD  HOUSBKSSPSB.         465 

thei  character  formed  in  this  life  controls  the  eternal  well- 
being;  so  that  those  who  are  trained  to  truth,  justice,  and 
mercy  will  be  forever  happier  than  those  who  grow  np  in  sin 
and  wickedness. 

She  finds  that  the  right  education  of  children  and  servants 
is  more  and  more  an  object  of  care  and  effort ;  and  that,  as 
the  consequence,  the  world  is  growing  better  rather  than 
worse. 

And  finally,  she  rejoices  in  the  increasingly  open  avenues 
to  useful  and  remunerating  occupations  for  women,  enabling 
them  to  establish  homes  of  their  oton^  where,  if  not  as  the 
natural  mother,  yet  as  a  Christrmother,  they  may  take  in 
neglected  ones,  and  train  future  mothers,  teachers,  and  mis- 
sionaries for'the  world. 

20* 


466  THE  Q0U8BKESPJCB  Aim  HSJLLTHKSEPXB. 


NOTE   A. 

TIBWS  OF  XXDICAL  WHTTSBS 

The  American  Woman's  Educational  Association  has  for  its  ol^ect 
^*  the  jestahlishment  of  institutions  having  muhwed  departments  Bop- 
porting  ladies  of  superior  character  and  education  who  shall  add 
to  a  collegiate  course  both  Scientific  and  practical  training,  in  all 
relating  to  the  distinctive  duties  of  woman  as  housekeeper,  wife, 
mother,  nurse  of  infants  and  the  sick,  trainer  of  servants,  and  chief 
religious  minister  of  Jthe  feunily  state.*'  As  Secretary  of  this  Asso- 
ciation, the  author  requested  the  views  of  Mrs.  Dr.  Gleason,  of  the 
Elmira  Water-^sure,  on  the  topics  that  follow.  This  lady,  as  wife, 
mother,  and  highly-educated  physician,  during  over  twenty  years  has 
had  patients  of  her  own  sex,  probably  counting  by  thousands,  and 
has  often,  by  request,  lectured  to  graduating  classes  in  the  Ingham 
University,  the  Elmira  College,  and  other  popular  institutions  for 
women.    The  following  are  extracts  firom  her  reply : 

Treatment  of  Pelvic  Diseatet, 

*'  The  pelvic  organs,  when  diseased,  all  have  so  many  symptoms  in  com- 
mon, that  it  requires  not  only  good  anatomical,  pathological,  and  physiologi- 
cal knowledge,  but  close  and  well-cultiyated  diagnostic  powers  to  decide 
which  organ  is  diseased,  and  how  it  is  diseased.  For  example,  sometimes  a 
displacement  of  the  nterns  will  cause  a  sense  of  weight,  dragging,  and  throb- 
bing, accompanied  by  pain  in  the  back  and  in  front  of  the  hips.  Bnt  in- 
flammation, ulceration,  and  indaration  of  this  organ  will  produce  piecisely 
the  same  results ;  and  sometimes  mere  nervoui  debility  in  these  parts  will  m- 
dace  these  symptoms,  especially  when  the  imagination  is  excited  in  reference 
to  the  subject.  It  also  is  often  the  case  that  extreme  prolapsus  occurs  in 
which  there  it  no  pain  at  all,        ^ 

*i  So  also  disease  of  the  urina^cyst  is  indicated  by  symptoms  precisely 
similar  to  those  which  mark  the  disease  of  the  adjacent  oigan.  These  or- 
gans lying  ip  close  proximity,  and  supplied  with  nerves  from  the  same  source, 
would  necessarily  sympathize,  and  show  disease  by  similar  symptoms.  Just 
as  in  the  toothache,  many  a  one  has  been  unable  to  point  out  the  diseased 
tooth.  How  much  more  difficulty  exists  in  a  case  where  most  women  are 
profoundly  ignorant  on  the  subject  I  ,  -  '  ~ 

''  It  has  become  a  very  common  notion  that  when  any  local  displacement  of 


.     yiSWS  OF  MEDICAL  WBITBBS.  467 

the  pelvic  organs  ocean,  a  woman  mast  c^ase  to  nse  her  arms,  cease  to  exer- 
cise vigoroasly,  and  keep  herself  on  the  hed  mach  of  her  time.  All  which, 
ia  most  cases,  is  exactly  the  three  things  which  she  oaght  not  to  do.  And 
thus  it  is  that,  when  from  want  of  fresh  air  and  exercise,  and  firom  the  many 
pemidoas  practices  that  debilitate  the  female  constitation,  the  pdvie  organs 
indicate  debility,  and  these. nenres  begin  to  ache.  Immediately  a  harness  is 
pat  on  for  local  sapport,  and  the  bed  becomes  the  constant  resort ;  and  thns 
the  mascalar  debility  and.nervons  irritability  are  increased.  And  yet,  all  that 
is  needed  is  fresh  air,  exercise,  simple  diet,  and  proper  mental  oocapation. 

**  In  this  condition,  perhaps,  resort  is  had  to  some  ignorant  or  inexperienced 
practitioner,  who  has  some  patent  supporter  to  sell,  or  who  has  some  secret 
and  wonderful  method  of  caring  such  diseases.  Then  commences,  in  many 
cases,  a  kind  of  local  treatment  most  trying  to  the  feelings,  vAtcA  it  hmt  td- 
dom  required^  and  which,  in-a  majority  of  cases,  results  in  no  benefit. 

"  Many  a  one  has  recited  to  me  the  mental  and  physical  sufiering  she  has 
endured  for  months  in  such  a  course  of  treatment,  and  all  to  no  ptupose.  A 
touching  case  of  this  kind  recently  occurred,  in  the  case  of  a  beautiful  young 
lady  who  was  a  listener  to  a  coarse  of  lectures  on  the  pelvis  and  its  diseases, 
given  by  me  to  the  graduating  class  of' a  female  seminary.  At  the  close  she 
c^me  to  me,  and,  with  tearful  eyes  and  a  quivering  lip,  said,  *  I  see  now  why 
all  I  have  suffered  in  body,  and  mind  is  worse  than  useless.  *  I  see  now  that 
I  hftTC  neyer  had  the  disoue  for  which  I  have  Been  treated.* 

'*  Woman's  trusting,  confiding  nature  is  beautiful ;  but  oh,  how  much  it 
needs  to"  be  protected  by  aii  intelligence  on  such  subjects  that  will  enable  her 
property  to  exercise  her  own  judgment !  And  surely,  in  soch  cases,  above  all 
others,  a  woman  should  ]>e  sure  that  her  medical  adviser  has  had  a  proper 
education,  and  possesses  a  well-established  moral  character. 

Effects  of  Imagination  in  Rtfertmos  to  tkue  Dimami, 

"  Besides  the  evils  of  misunderstanding  and  mistreating  these  affections,  we 
have  a  host  of  evils  from  the  effects  of  imagination.  Multitades  of  Women, 
who  hear  terrific  accounts  of  the  nature  of  these  complaints,  and  of  the  treat- 
ment Ihat  is  inevitable,  have  their  imagination  so  excited  that  aches  and  pains 
that  are  really  trifling  bAome  magnified  into  all  the  symptoms  of  the  dread- 
ed eviL  They  betake  themselves  to  bed,  become  more  and  more  nervous  as 
they  give  np  air,  exercise,,  and  occupation,  and  thus  drag  out  a  useless  life, 
a  burden  to  themsdyes  and  to  their  families.  Again  and  again  I  have  had 
such  cases  brought  to  me,  where  for  yean  they  could  not  leave  their  beds  or 
walk  at  all,  when  I  had  nothing  to  do  but  make  than  m^dtrttand  tknr  .omth 
organism,  and  convince  them  that  they  needed  little  else  except  to  get  op  and 
go  to  work,  in  order  to  be  healthy  women.  It  is  such  cases  that  furnish  a 
large  portion  of  the  'wonderful  cures*  that  attract  patients  intathe  hands 
of  pooriy-qudified  practitioners. 

"  It  is  probable  that  thousands  of  women  who  are  suffering  from  pain  in 
the  back  and  pelvic  evils,  and  who  either  will  soon  be  invalids  or  imagine 
themselves  so,  could  be  relieved  entirely  by  obeying  these  directions : 

'VWash  the  whole  perton,  on  rising,  in  oool  water,  and,  if  nervoos  or  d» 


4C8  THE  HOUSEKSSPSB  AND  HJEAI/THKXSPSB. 

bilitated,  bj  a  fire ;  dr^ss  kxMdy,  and  let  all  the  weight  of  clothing  rest  on 
the  iihoalden ;  sleq>  in  a  well-Tentilated  room ;  exerciM  the  moades  a  great 
deely  espedallj  those  of  the  ami8  and  tnmk,  taldng  care  to  lie  dowB  and  reet 
as  soon  as  fatigae  is  felt ;  eat  simple  food,  at  regular  hours ;  poivne  nsefol 
employments,  with  interrals  of . social  and  healthfol  amnsement ;  sleep  eoongh, 
and  at  the  proper  hours ;  and  sit  often  in  the  son. 

Peculiar  Lutmetiom  needed  6y  Tetmg  ChUdren. 

"Throogh  information  gained  ftom  mj  hnshand,  from  other  phjsidans, 
from  teachers,  from  medical  writers,  and  from  the  reports  of  insane  hospitals, 
it  has  become  dear  to  mj  mind  that  there  are  secret  and  terrific  causes  prej- 
ing  extensirelj  upon  the  health  and  nenrous  energy  of  childhood  and  jootb 
of  both  sexes  such  as  did  not  formerly  exist,  and  such  as  demand  new  effbrts 
to  eradicate  and  prerent 

'*  Parents  and  teachers  all  over  the  land  need  to  be  made  aware  that  a  se- 
cret vice  is  becoming  frequent  among  children  of  both  sexes  that  is  taught 
by  servants  and  communicated  by  children  at  school.  Indeed^  it  may  result 
from  acddent  or  disease,  with  an  innocent  unconsciousness  of  the  eril  done, 
on  the  part  of  the  child,  while  the  practice  may  thus  ignorantly  be  peipetu- 
ated  to  maturity.  This  practice  leads  to  diseases  of  the  most  horrible  de- 
scription, to  mania,  and  to  fiituity.  Death  and  the  mad-house  are  the  last 
resort  of  these  most  miserable  yictims. 

-  **  To  protect  childhood  and  youth  from  this,  it  is  not  only  needful  to  cultii- 
Tate  purity  of  mind  and  personal  modesty,  but  to  teach  them. while  quite 
young  that  any  fingering  of  the  parts  referred  to  inyolyes  ienible  penalties. 
No  such  explidt  information  should  be  giyen  as  would  tempt  the  incautious 
curiosity  of  childhood,  but  the  child  should  be  impressed  with  a  sense  of  guilt 
and  awful  punishment  as  connected  with  any  thing  of  this  kind,  that  would 
instantly  recur  to  mind,  if  led  by  acddent  or  instruction  to  this  Tice. 

*'  In  tegard  to  those  who  hate  already  become  victims,  to  a  greater  or  less 
degree,  to  this  vice,  one  caution  is  very  important  Medical  writers  iuKl  oth- 
ers who  have  attempted  to  guard  the  young  in  this  direction  have  pa&ted 
not  only  the  danger  but  the  wickedness  of  this  practice  in  such  strong  colors 
that,  when  a  young  perKm  first  discovers  the  natdre  of  a  practice  that  has 
been  indulged  with  little  conception  of  the  danger  or  wrong,  oveiraction  on 
the  fears  and  the  consdeiice  is  not  unfrequently  the  result  Such  horror  and 
despair  sometimes  ensue  as  almost  paralyze  any  effort  on  the  part  of  medical 
advisers  to  remedy  the  evil. 

*'  In  all  such  cases,  it  is  safest  and  best  to  assume  that  this  sin  is  one  of  igno- 
rance, and  that  the  cure  is  almost  certain,  if  the  directions  given  are  strictly 
-obeyed.  Unstimnlating  diet,  a  great  deal  of  exercise  in  the  open  air,  dafly 
ablutibn  of  the  whole  person,  control  of  the  imagination,  and  occupation  of 
jhe  mind  in  useful  pursuits,  will  usually  remedy  the  evil,  after  its  nature  is  nn- 
derstood." 

[A  lady,  after  reading  the  above,  stated  that  within  the  last  year  a  little 
boy  under  her  care,  of  very  delicate  mind  and  susceptible  temperament,  was 
sent  to  the  country  to  a  private  boarding-school,  under  the  care  of  aibost  ex- 


YIBWS  07  MEDICAL  WB1TEBS.  460 

celleDt  gentleman  and  his  wife,  who  were  eminentlj  fkithful,  so  fkr  ss  thej 
knew  how  to  be.  The  child  staid  only  six  weeks^  and  returned  sick,  de- 
pressed, and  with  a  harden  on  his  mind  that  could  not  be  discorered.  After 
learning  that  he  would  not  be  sent  back,  he  revealed  the  shocking  stoiy,  and 
also  the  fitct  that  the  boys  had  threatened  to  kill  him  if  he  erer  told  any  one. 
Another  lady,  after  reading  this  article,  related  a  similar  stoiy  of  a  large 
and  highly  respected  boarding -scho(d  for  boys,  and  gave  sereral  nioiimftil 
incidents  to  show  the  effects  of  snch  evils  on  the  health  of  the  pnpils.  Par- 
ents whose  yonng  sons  are  at  boording-^chool  can  not  be  too  moch  alarmed 
on  this  subject] 

Iniiruction»  at  a  more  Mature  Age. 

'*Yoa  wish  my  views  and  experience  in.  reference  to  instmctions  that 
should  be  communicated  to  the  young,  on  such  topics,  at  a  more  mature  age. 

"  The  terrible  effects  I  bare  seen  from  siw^e  igmoramce^  both  pn  individual 
and  domestic  happiness,  convince  me  that  a  great  work  is  to  be  attempted  in 
this  direction.  More  than  half  the  cases  of  extreme  suffering  which  have 
come  under  my  care  could  have  been  saved,  had  the  coarse  that  is  'aimed  at 
by  yoa  and  your  associates  have  been  secured  by  them.  I  have  been  caUed 
repeatedly  to  lecture  to  young  ladies,  near  the  close  of  a  school  education,  on 
subjects  so  important  to  their  future  health  and  hi4>piness,  and  I  never  found 
the  least  difficulty,  either  on  their  part  or  my  own. 

**  When  the  proper  discriminations  are  made  between  true  delicacy  and 
propriety,  and  a  £utidious  and  mawkish  imitation  of  them,  there  is  do  diffi- 
^mlty  in  making  them  understood  and  appreciated.  I  have  found,  on  such 
occasions,  if  a  person  was  present  known  to  be  wanting  in  purity  and  delica- 
cy, it  was  such  only  who  made  very  offensive  protestations  against  the  course 
pursued  in  such  instructions. 

'*  In  refierence  to  eocial  as  well  as  secret  vices  of  this  description,  it  seems  to 
me  the  protection  of  ignorance  should  be  preserved  as  long  as  possible,  and 
yet  so  that,  when  such  knowledge  dawns,  there  shall  immediately  recur  the 
needful  impression  of  danger  and  sin.  These  duties  belong  especially  to  par- 
ents and  teachers ;  and  the  circulation  of  books  and  p^4>ers  with  the  gross 
and  pernicious  information  that  many  hare  recommended  and  practiced  in- 
volves, as  it  seems  to  Ae,  most  hasardous  results. 

**The  implanted  principles  which  establish  the  family  state  are  connected 
with  the  highest  rewards  when  rightly  regulated,  and  with  most  dreadful  pen- 
alties when  perverted  or  abused.  And  the  prosperity  of  individuals,  of  fiun- 
ilies,  and  of  nations,  for  this  life  and  the  life  to  come,  depends  more  on  the 
proper  control  and  regulation  of  these  principles  than  on  any  other  social  or 
moral  duty. 

**  And  yet  there  is  no  point  of  morals  and  religion  so  widely:  abused  and 
so  fruitful  of  miseiy  and  sin  as  much  that  is  connected  with  these  principles. 
Instead  of  being  regulated  by  correct  knowledge  and  well-formed  habitt  of 
thought  and  action,  all  seems  left  to  the  mistakes  of  ignorance  or  the  control 
of  worldly  fashion. 
.    "  One  cause  of  this  state  of  things  is  want  of  consisteDt  mles  and  customs 


410  THB   HOUSKKJEEPSB^AND  HKAI/THKKXPSB. 

AS  to  what  constitates  tme  modettif.  These  are  all  depeodeot  on  a  general 
principle  of  physiology  eitho:  rarely  recognised  or  inconsistently  regarded. 
The  principle  is  this  : 

**  When  the  mind  directs  thought  and  Tolition  toward  any  organ  of  the 
body  the  blood  and  nenroos  floid  tend  to  that  organ.  Thns,  when  the  brain  is 
used,  or  the  eye,  or  the  hand,  the  nenroos  floid  and  blood  tend  to  the  organ 
to  stimolate  its  action.  If  this  stimolation  is  too  fi^oent,  or  too  long  oon- 
tinoed,  or  prodoced  by  onnatoral  methods,  then  debility  or  disease  ace  the 
result  The  capillaries  of  the  misused  organ  become  engorged,  prododng 
tempprary  or  chronic  inflammation  or  congestion. 

'*The  same  is  true  of  those  organs  consecrated  ^  nuuriage.  Excess  or 
unnatural  abuse  causes  an  engorgement  of  the  capillaries,  and  then  a  resulting 
increase  of  excitement,  and  to  a  degree  that  sometimes  baffles  all  efforts  at 
self-control 

"It  is  owing  to  this  physiological  principle  that  the  rules  of  personal 
modesty,  of  decorum,  and  of  propriety  in  social  intercourse  have  becoi  estab* 
lished. 

"  Oa  the  principle  above  stated  these  sensibilities  demand  thecontrol  of  the 
thoughts.  For  this  reason  it  is  that  certain  topics  which  lead  to  such  thoughts 
are  Occluded  from  general  conversation,  or,  if  they  are  alluded  to,  are  veiled 
in  expressions  that  children  do  not  understand.  It  is  for  this  cause  that 
novels,  poetry,  and  pictures  which  direct  the  imagination  to  such  topics  are 
deemed  objectionable,  especially  for  the  young. 

"It  is  owing  to  this  physiological  fiict  that  Jesus  Christ  declares  that  the 
guilt  of  adultery  commences  in  the  indulgence  of  the  thoughts. 

"Marriage  is  not  allowable  until  there  has  been  due  instruction  and  a  habit 
formed  of  regulating  these  sensibilities  by  rules  of  modesty,  decency,  and  pro- 
priety, and  also  knowledge  imparted  as  to  the  dangers  consequent  on  neglect- 
ing these  rules.  '  And  here  is  the  place  where  the  customs  and  practices  of 
society  are  most  inconsistent,  false,  and  destructive  to  health  and  morals. 
For  in  one  direction  there  is  excessive  and  dangerous  laxness,  and  in  another 
false  and  dangerous  strictness  and  fastidiousness. 

"The  nile  to  guide  is  this,  that  whenever  health,  life,  or  duty  demand  it, 
all  connected  with  these  topics  should  be  spoken  of  and  done  without  restraint 
or  embarrassment ;  but  when  there  are  no  such  demands,  ihey  are  to  be  ex- 
cluded. Thus  all  these.topics  are  spoken  of  plainly  in  the  Bible  and  read  in 
public  worship,  and  also  in  medical,  surgical,  and  hospital  practice ;  and  it  is 
deemed  false  modesty  and  false  delicacy  to  express  opposition  or  disapproval 
But  when  there  are  no  such  demands  to  serve  health  or  life,  or  to  protect 
fix>m  future  dangers,  conversation,  poetry,  jokes,  or  coarse  expressions  on 
such  topics  are  vulgar,  indecent,  and  sinful 

"Direct  violation  of  these  rules  are  now  pervading  not  only  our  popular 
amusements,  our  poetry,  and  novels,  but  extensively  the  weekly  and  daily 
press  is  every  day  drawing  attention  to  topics  dangerous  and  forbidden  ex- 
cept for  necessary  instruction  and  warning.  The  Bible  as  read  in  fieunilies 
and  churches  comes  with  solemn  simplicity  as  instruction  from  God,  and 
sins  of  aU  kinds  are  made  known  for  warning  and  Instmction.    Yery  difflsr- 


TmWS  OF  MEDICAL  WBITBB8.  411 

ent  in  style  and  iDflaence  are  the  details  of  vices  and  crimes  presented  daily 
in  new^Mipers,  magazines,  poetiy,  and  novels. 

**It  woold  seem  as  if  the  Frince  of  Darkness  had  sent  fortii  his  minions 
to  hide  all  that  knowledge  that  would  save  from  sin  and  snfiering,  and  to 
expose  all  that  tempts  to  danger  and  sin. 

**In  addition  to  die  dangers  of  our  popular  literature,  there  is  a  wide-spread 
assumption  that  such  is  the  constitution  of  man,  that  the  unsullied  purity  of 
thought  and  conduct  demanded  of  the  weaker  sex  is  not  to  be  expected  or 
scarcely  required  of  the  stronger.  This  pernicious  opinion  is  not  unfreqifent- 
ly  implied  in  medical  writers,  especially  those  residing  in  the  centres  of  Euro- 
pean licentiousness. 

"Therefore  it  is  yery  important  for  parents  to  know,  in  the- first  place, 
that  constitutional  diversities  exist,  involving  more  temptations  to  some  than 
to  others ;  and  in  tlie  next  place,  that  every  child  is  so  organized,  that  strict 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  health,  knowledge  of  danger  from  uncontrolled 
thoughts,  useful  occupation,  and  suitable  moral  and  religious  training,  will  se- 
cure the  regulation  of  ordinaiy  temptations,  and  self.^x>ntrol  under  extraordi- 
naiy  ones.  Where  in  maturity  this  has  not  been  the  case,  it  has  been  owing 
to  excess  either  in  forbidden  or  in  legal  indulgence. 

"There  is  nothing  more  difficult  than  to  change  customs  and  prejudices, 
especially  in  matters  of  delicacy  and  propriety.  And  it  is  woman  naore  than 
man  who  has  controlling  influence  in  these  respects.  Whatever  the  cultivated 
and  conscientious  women  of  our  country  decide  omght  to  be  done,  and  wil) 
nse  their  influence  to  have  done^  will  surely  be  accomplished. 

"The  evils  here  indicated  can  never  be  appreciated  until  mothers  and 
teachers  gain  that  knowledge  of  the  construction  of  the  body  and  the  dangers 
connected  with  the  duties  of  the  £unOy  state,  which  now  is  confined  to  the 
medical  profession,  while  physicians,  by  the  fidse  customs  and  fiUso  modesty 
of  women,  are  constrained  to  a  dangerous  reticence. 

"I  believe  that  the  method  proposed  by  your  Association,  of  securing  by 
endowments  well-qualified  ladies  whose  cffidal  duty  it  shall  be  to  ti^n  the 
young  to  be  healthy,  and  to  oonununicate  all  the  knowledge  that  will  fit 
them  to  fulfill  healthfully  and  happily  all  their  future  duties  and  relations, 
wiJ],  so  fiir  as  it  is  carried  but,  efi^tually  remedy  the  evils,  and  secure  the 
benefits  designed. 

**0h,  that  all  parents  and  teachers  who  are  to  train  the  next  generation 
could  be  made  to  understand  these  intimations,  and  save  their  daughters  from 
the  abounding  anguish  which  has  come  upon  such  multitudes  of  those  now 
upon  the  stage!     Yeiy  truly  yours,  R.  B.  Glsabok." 

These  -views  of  Mrs.  Dr.  Gleason  are  in  accordance  with  thoee  of 
the  most  influential,  learned,  and  benevolent  medical  men. 

Dr.  George  T.  Elliott,  late  President  of  the  New  York  County  Medical 
Society,  says  of  mMtcular  exerei$e  (or,  as  Mrs.  Gleason  would  say,  "getting 
up  and  going  to  work  ") :  "  If  this  were  properly  carried  out,  the  local  treat- 
ment now  so  much  in  Togtie,  and  the  ever- ready  resort  to  the  qtecnlum, 
might  commonly  be  dispensed  with.** 


4?2  VIEWS  07  MSDICiX  WSITEB8. 

Dr.  Thomis  suggests  similar  riews  in  an  address  before  the  Medical  Soci- 
ety of  New  York  County,  in  which  he  speaks  of  '*  the  wonderfol  improve- 
ment exerted  on  cases  wkiek  ham  long  retUted  local  msoiit,  by  sea-bathing, 
or  a  few  months  passed  in  the  coantiy.  He  also  says :  '*  The  fact  is  notori- 
ous that  the  local  treatment  of  these  diseases  is  not  as  successfol  as  we  could 
wish ;"  and  of  oterine  injections  he  says :  "  My  impression  is,  they  hare  done^ 
and  are  going  to  do,  a  ^rsa/ cfea/ ^JMnn.    I §ee  no  noeemty/or  them,^ 

Dr.  Peasely,  of  New  York  City,  says:  **  Medical  applications  to  the  nteros 
are'^^lea  nsed  in  conditions  not  Justifying  them.** 

The  senior  editor  of  the  Pacific  Medical  Journal  says :  **It  is  hoped  that 
the  ftshion  of  women  haying  reconrse  to  local  treatment  has  passed  to  its  cul- 
mination. The  highest  authorities  hare  taken  the  back  course,  and  condemn 
their  own  uterine  suigeiy  in  some  respects.**  • 

The  editor  of  the  Medical  Record,  of  New  York  City,  says :  *'  In  a  major* 
ity  of  cases  the  speculum  is  used  only  because  it  is  the  fiubion.  The  natural 
tendency  of  this  is  certainly  demoralizing," 

Dr.  George  H.  Taylor,  author  of  an  original  work  on  diseases  of  women, 
says :  *' A  large  portion  of  the  women  treated  by  me  for  pelric  disease  would, 
in  certain  stages,  be  cured  by  loose  dresses  supported  from  the  shoulders,  do- 
mestic exercise,  and  proper  diet. :  And  the  Movement  Care,  to  a  great  ex- 
tent, consists  of  exercises  that  would  in  many  cases  beas  successfol,  and  more 
usefbl,  if  performed  in  domestic  labor.:.  Moreorer,  in  my  experience,  not 
more  than  one  case  in  twenty  of  cures  by.  moTements  requires  either  local 
examination  or  local  treatment  A  large  portion  of  my  patients  could,  by 
obeying  my  directions,  cure  themselves  at  home.** 

Most  medical  men  now  ogreethat  the  modes  of  dress,  and  the  excess- 
ive mental  taxation  of  schools,  unaccompanied  by  the  healthfVil  do- 
mestic labor  of  former  days,,  largely  account  for  the  prevalenoe  of  dis- 
eases among  young  girls  which  fprmerly  were  confined  to  married 
women,  and  also  for  the  alarming  increase  of  such  diseases. 


INDEX. 


^AooisDm  and  antidotes,  800. 

Adds,  how  to  be  kept,  106. 

Address  of  the  aathor  to  readers,  IflL 

Aged,  care  of  the,  801. 

Air-eells,  nnmber  in  baman  longs,  158. 

Aloobolic  drinks,  100;  tbe  microsoope,S28. 

Alcobolic  poisoning,  antidote  for,  803. 

Almond  and  ooc«>a-not  eake,  80. 

Amosements  and  social  dnties,  440,  «C  mq, 

Angrj  tones  aroidable,  977. 

Antidotes  for  some  poisons,  807. 

Apple  and  bread  damplings,  T9. 

Apple-bread,  OS. 

Apple^nstard,  08w 

Apple-omelet,  to  make  an,  03. 

Apple-pie,  70. 

Apple-saoce,  00. 

Appl^•tarts,  spiced,  81. 

Apple-trees,  to  preserve  ftrom  insects,  800. 

Apple-Ice,  97. 

Apple-Jelly,  96l 

Apple  lemon-pndding,  97. 

Apple-snow,  98. 

Apples,  to  presenre,  99l 

Apportionment  of  time,  proper,  288. 

Arrow-root,  how  porchased  and  kept,  105. 

Arsenic,  antidote  for,  808. 

Asparagns,  how  to  cook,  OS ;  how  dished, 

111. 
Associated  charities,  a  system  oi;  887. 
Attic  story  of  a  hoase,  plan  for.  144. 

Bacon,  the  &t  of  good,  91. 

Baked  flsh,  00. 

Baked  meats.    See  RoatU,  40L 

Basement,  plan  for  a,  147. 

Basket-ware  for  kitchen,  847. 

Baskets  for  flowers,  190 :  and  Ihiita,  838. 

Bath,  nse  and  misuse  of  the,  940. 

Baadeloqae,  M.,  on  foal  air,  168L 

BeaatUying  a  home,  199^  s(  mq. 

Beds,  arranging,  841. 

BaeA  selection  of;  18 ;  diflBbrtnt  cat!  oi;  19 ; 


economy  in  purchase  of;  19;  ste^w,  80; 
soups,  87:  hash,  40;  boiled,  48;  roast, 
40 ;  pot-pie  of;  47 ;  pie  of  cold,  48 ;  friip 
sled,  61. 

Beef-tea,  lOS. 

BeeTs-gall,  to  keep,  110. 

Beefsteak,  broiled,  80. 

Bees,  care  of;  818. 

Beets,  how  to  cook,  01.  ' 

Biliousness,  cause  of;  917. 

Bill  of  fkre-fonr  weeks  ahead,  19& 

Bird'snest  pudding,  7& 

Biscuits— soda,  yeast,  potato,  09 ;  of  soar 
milk  and  flour,  71. 

Blackberry  jam,  98. 

Blano-mange,  98 ;  of  if  heat  flour,  97. 

Bleeding  fh>m  the  lungs,  throat,  etc.,  809. 

Blood;  the  human,  UO,  st  uq. 

Body,  composition  of  the  human,  914. 

BaUedflsh,(BL^ 

Boiled  meats-^o  cook  tough  beef,  ham, 
beef;  fowls,  48 ;  a  leg  or  shoulder  of 
real,  mutton,  or  lamb,  calfs  lirer  and 
sweet-breads,  kidneys,  pillau,  smoked 
tongues,  corned  beef,  44  ;  partiidges  or 
pigeons,  ducks,  turkeys,  4S. 

Bologna  sauaages,  to  make,  M. 

Bones,  composition  of;  948 ;  laws  of  health 
for  the,  404. 

Borax,  fbr  washing,  119. 

Brain  and  nenres,  90S. 

Brain,  laws  of  health  for  the,  457. 

Brandy  peaches,  91. 

Bread,  remarks  regarding  flimlly,  04 :  flne 
flour,  00 :  middlings,  or  unbolted  flour, 
raised  with  water  only,  07 ;  rye  and  In- 
dian, third,  rye,  oat-meal,  pumpkin  and 
apple^  corn-meal,  08 ;  sweet  rolls  of  corn- 
meal,  soda  biscuit,  yeast  biscuit,  potato 
biscuit,  buns,  09 :  how  to  keep,  108. 

Bread  and  apple  dumplings.  If. 

Bread  and  fhiit  podding,  TT. 

Bread  omelet,  to  make,  Ot. 


474 


INDSX. 


Bread-cnunbc  aod  meat  hash,  id 
Bread  padding,  stale,  78 ;  for  InTalldi,  81. 
Braak/katdUbea,  70-7B. 
Breakdut-rooma,  care  oi;  888. 
Breathing,  the  action  in,  U6» 
Breeding  of  animals,  807. 
Brewer,  Professor,  of  Yale  College,  on 

ventilation,  188. 
Brine  or  pickle  for  beef^  pork,  etc,  88. 
Broccoli,  to  pickle,  0& 
Broiled  flsh,  69.     . 
Broiled  mntton  or  lamb  chops,  beeCiteak, 

firesh  pork,  ham,  sweet-breads,  Teal,  pork 

reUsh,6a 
Broiled  oysters,  68. 
Braises,  remedies  for,  880. 
BriUnre,  or  flre-blight,  800. 
Backjjrheat,  how  prodaced  and  kept,  108. 
Backwheat  cakes,  78. 
Budding  and  grafting,  888. 
JBnns,  to  make,  00. 
Bams,  remedies  for,  800. 
Bntler,  Fanny  Kemble,  on  theatre-going, 

4ii. 
Batter,  to  keep,  106 ;  in  hot  weather,  188. 
Botternal  catnip,  00. 

Cabbage,  tine,  pickled.  Si. 

Cabbage  and  caaliflower,  to  cook,  08. 

Cake,  general  directions  for  making,  88; 
one,  two,  three,  four  cake;  chocolate. 
Jelly,  orange,  almond,  and  cocoa-nnt,  60 ; 
poond-cake,  plaia-cake,  frnit,  hnckle- 
berrj,  gold  and  siWer,  rich  sponge-cske, 
87;  plain  sponge -cake,  gingerbread, 
fHed  cakes,  cookies,  etc.,  8^;  plain  loaf- 
cake,  rich  loaf-cake,  dongh-cake,  icing 
for  cake,  89 ;  how  to  keep,  106. 

Cairs-foot,  to  cleanse,  88 ;  Jelly,  ii,  93 ;  to 
cook,ii. 

Cairs  bead  and  feet,  to  cleanse,  28 ;  sonp, 
88;  to  cook,  iS. 

Calfs  lirer  and.sweet-biwads,  to  cook,  H. 

Candied  fimits,  99. 

Candles,  to  make,  883. 

Canker-worm,  to  check,  800. 

Canned  frnits,  91. 

Capers,  sanoe  of,  mock,  67. 

Capitol,  Tentilation  and  warming  of  the, 
105. 

CarbonaceooB  food,  S17. 

Carbonic  add,  108. 
,  Card-playing  as  an  amnsement,  iii« 

Core  of  moats,  18, 88;  of  the  aged,  801; 


of  domeatSc  animals,  806;  of  the  skk, 
818;  of  serTants,i8i. 

Carpets,  selection  0(880;  cottingandfl^ 
ting,88(lL 

Carrots,  how  to  oook,  01. 

Carring,  direetiona  for,  88& 

Caslto-bailding,S86.     - 

CathoUe  priests,  care  tor  senrants,  i88L 

Catsnp,  walnut  or  buttemnt,  60;  tomato^ 
87. 

Canlillower,  to  pi^e^  88;  to  cocdc,  9L 

Celery,  to  prepare,  09. 

Cell-life,  900 ;  curioos  t^titt^  901 ;  impor- 
tant relations  to  health,  90S. 

Cellar,  cafe  of  a,  8i8b 

Cement,  a  good,  1S9l 

Chairs,  a  use  for  old,  198L 

Chambers  and  bedrooms,  care  ot,  889. 

Character,  protection  to,  ilQ. 

Charities,  associated,  887,  tt  mq. 

Cliarlotte  russe,  96L 

Cheese,  how  to  keep,  108. 

CheeeeofTea],81. 

Cherries,  to  preserre,  98. 

Cberry-pie,  79. 

Chickens,  etc,  stew,  81;  roast,  i7;  pot- 
pic  and  rioe-pie,  iS. 

Chicken  sidad,  67, 96L 

Children  talking  to  parents,  90i,  s(  mq.f 
the  bath  for,  Sil ;  training  the  man- 
ners Of;  809,  St  mq.  See,  also,  Foim^ 
Children. 

Chimney,  a  central,  170. 

Chimneys,  189,  s<  mq, 

Chinese,  respect  for  age,  80i. 

Chocolate,  as  a  bCTerage,  lOL 

Chocolate-cake,  80. 

Cholera,  In  the  shade,  880. 

Chowder,  dam,  60. 

Cider  and  toast,  101. 

Circus-riding,  about,  iil. 

Citron  melons,  toi  pseeerre,  98. 

Clam  soup,  87;  chowder,  89. 

Clarify  sugar,  to,  99. 

Clark,  Dr.  James,  on  physical  edncation 
of  children,  iOL 

Cleaning  furniture,  889. 

Cleanliness,  988,  «t  $eq, ;  for  animals,  800.' 

Clothing,  9i8,  tt  9eq. ;  selection  of  fkmily, 
129. 

Cloths,  table,  109. 

Coal,  anthracite  and  bituminous,  8S0w 

Coal  mines,  prlndple  of  Tentilftting,108, 
I  Cocoa,  to  make,  lOOi 


INDBZ; 


475 


Cocoa-nat  padding  (plain),  .78 ;  dike,  80w 
Codflib,  a  relish,' 51 ;  where  to  keep,  lOSw 
Coffee^  ftsh-ekin  for,  100 ;  creank  for,  101 ; 

to  pnichaae,  lOT;  for  children,  S80;  as 

a  beverage,  28U 
Cold -meat  haah,  89;  nice  woy  of  cook- 
ing, 41. 
Colds,  treatment  of,  810. 
Combe  on  the  management  of  infknts, 

89S. 
Comfort  for  a  discouraged  housekeeper, 

460L 
Company,  reception  of,  888. . 
Conductors  of  heat,  104. 
Constipation,  care  for  {in  noU)t'BVk 
ConTection,  a  principle  of  heat,  104. 
Cookies,  88. 

Cook-stove,  to  roast  in,  46. 
Cooking-stoves  and  ranges,  182,  et  teq. 
Cool,  how  to  keep,  189L 
Com  (green)  soap,  80 ;  paddingr  81. 
Corn-cake,  sachem's  head,  78. 
Com-meal  bread,  08;  sweet  rolls  of,  09; 
.  pop-overs,  70 ;  for  breakCist  and  sapper, 

70. 
Corned-beef  hash,  41;  boiled,  44. 
Corrosive  snblimate,  antidote  for,  S03. 
Cottage  cheese,  tine,  78. 
Cows,  care  of;  809. 
Crab-apple  marmalade  and  Jelly.     See 

Quinet  MamuMlade. 
Cracked  wheat,  71;  how  porchased  and 

kept,10& 
Cradcer  plam-paddiog,  SS. 
Cranberry,  97 ;  saace,  60. 
Creaking  hinges,  to  stop,  123. 
Cream  for  coffee  and  tea,  101. 
Creani  tartar,  beverage,  102. 
Crockery  for  a  kitchen,  840. 
Crampets,  royal,  72. 
Cacambers,  pickled,  68 ;  convenient  way 

to  pickle,  04;  to  prepare,  02;  prepared 

for  table,  110. 
CvreuUo,  the,  in  plnm-trees,  800. 
Cord  padding,  ^iglish,  77. 
Carrant  and  raspberry  pie,  79. 
Carrant  Jelly,  94 ;  whisk,  90. 
Carrants,  to  preserve,  98 ;  for  cake,  107 ; 

raised  in  a  wet  soil,  858^ 
Castard,  plain,  .77. 
Cats,  remedies  for,  800. 
Catting  dresses,  hints  on,  801. 

Dancing  as  an  Aroasement,  411. 


Death-rates,  average  of;  102, 108. 

Decay,  resalts  of  animal  or  vegetable,  182: 

Dessert  of  rice  and  frait,  80. 

Desserts  and  evening  parties^  96. 

Diaphragm,  the  hami^,24& 

Digestion  of  food,  217. 

Digestive  organs,  the,  219;  the  laws  of 

health  for,  466. 
Dining-rooms,  core  of;  886. 
Discooraged  honsekeeper,  comfort  for,400. 
Domestic  amasements  and  soda!  dnties^ 

440,  s<  ssg. 
Domestic  animals,  care  of,  806^  H  mq. 
Domestic  exercise,  206,  €t  seg. 
Domestic  manners,  200,  €t  mq. 
Domestic  service  a  great  problem,  429. 
Domestics*  rooms,  84f . 
Dormer-windows,  170. 
Dough-cske,  89. 
Donghnots,  88. 
Drawn  batter,  110 ;  saace,  60w 
Dress  appropriate  to  servants,  481.  . 
Dress—fkshion  ralnoas  to  health,  248. 
Dressing  a  yonng  girl,  proper  mode  of; 

261. 
Drinks,  etc.,  for  the  sick,  100. 
Drop-cakes  of  fine  wheat  or  rye,  72. 
Drowning,  in  cases  of,  807. 
Docks,  to  boil,  46.  . 
Damplings  of  bread  and  apples,  79. 
Dwelling,  constraction  of  a  fhmily,  127 1 

ornamentation  of  fhmitare  of,  188. 

Early  rising,  264 :  recommeoded,  447. 

Esrth-dotets,  146. 

Bating  too  mnch,  214 ;  too  fkst,  222L 

Economical  breakflMt-dish,  7L 

Egg-plant,  how  to  cook,  01. 

Eggs,  with  meat -hash,  89;  omelet,  61; 
with  milk  as  ssnce,  60 ;  modes  of  cook- 
ing, OS ;  to  preserve,  122. 

Slgg  tea,  egg  coffee,  and  egg  milk,  102. 

English  cnrd-paddiog,  77. 

Essences,  how  to  be  kept,  106. 

Evening  parties  and  desserts,  OIL 

Exercise  indispensable  to  health,  211 ;  for 
animals,  807. 

Expenses,  fhmily,  180. 

Eyes;  laws  of  health  fbr  the,  487. 

Family  attachments,  462L 
Family  religions  training,  414,  tt  mg. 
Fasting,  a  remedy  for  sickness,  814 
Fanlt-flnding,  mlstakee  oi;  4B2. 


470 


IKDSX. 


F^er,  drUk  for  a,  101. 

Flgt,  where  railed,  808. 

PilberU,  where  ndeed,  888b 

FIoe-floDT  breed,  88. 

Ptre,  In  eeee  ot,  880. 

Fire-blight  in  peer-treee,  880. 

Fire-pleoea,  the  ednuitegee  of  open,  188L 

Fires  end  Ughtt,8U. 

FIfh,  Mleetion  of,  tS ;  to  salt  down,  28 ; 

directions  for  eooklng,  CB. 
Fishing  as  a  sport,  440. 
Fitting  dresses,  hints  on,  881. 
Flannel  shirts  save  washing,  IIS. 
Flavoring  powders,  83. 
Floating  island,  86. 
Flour,  how  it  should  be  kept,  104. 
Flour  puddings,  flour  and  fruit  puddings, 

79;  a  rich,  80. 
Flower-seeds,  planting,-880. 
Flowers,  appropriate  for  baskets,  107;  in 

a  room,  to  cultivate,  \0i, 
Flnids  as  food,  884. 
Flummery,  90. 

Folding,  sprinkling,  and  ironing,  118. 
Folding  clothing,  directions  for,  848. 
Food,  on  the  conversion  oU  into  nourish- 
ment, 814 ;  responsibilitj  as  to,  in  a  (km- 
Uf,  914 ;  on  taking  too  much,  814;  pro- 
portion of  nutritive  elements  in,  810 ; 
on  one  kind  of;  for  each  meal,  817 ;  quan- 
titj  oi;  to  be  graduated  by  exercise,  817; 
on  the  quality  of;  881 ;  sthnnlatlng,  881 ; 
animal  and  vegetable,  881;  kinds  of, 
most  easily  digested,  888 ;   InJnrious, 
from  bad  cooking,  888 :  on  eating  too 
fast,  828 ;  on  exercise,  after  taking,  988 ; 
on  hot  and  cold,  828 ;  highly  concen- 
trated, 984 ;  for  the  sick^  81& 
Forewarn  instead  of  fln  d  faul  t,  488.    . 
Foul  air,  the  evils  of;  108,  §1  mq. 
Fowls,  boiled,  43;  ft-icasseed,  43. 
Fragile  ware,  to  preserve,  198. 
French  cooking,  the  peculiar  excellence 

of;  84. 
French  vegetable  soup,  88. 
Fresh-meat  hiuh,  89. 
Fricasseed  fowl,  43. 
Fried  meats  and  relishes,  00. 
Fried  oysters,  08.* 
Fritters  of  oysters,  08. 
Frizsled  beef,  01. 
Fruit,  culthraUon  of;  807. 
Fruit  and  bread-crumb  pudding,  79.  ^ 
Fruit  and  rice  dessert,  8a 


Fmlt-eake,  8T. 
Fmit  pudding,  boded,  7T. 
Frying,  nnbealthftil  mode  of  oooklns,  Ml 
Fuel  saved  by  cottage  storey  188. 
Fnmaee-heat  pemldoas,  Vti,  tt  ssf . 
Fnmitare,  to  cleanse  or  renovate,  1S8 ;  the 
aeleetionoi;i88,8S0. 

Games  of  skill  for  children,  44B, 

Garden  seeds,  planting,  800. 

Gardening  a  recreation  for  the  young,  441 

(iardens  and  yard,  care  of;  848. 

Ganglionic  system,  the^  804. 

Garnishing  dishes,  modM  of.  111. 

Gastric  juice,  supply  of;  918k 

Gherkins,  pickled,  08. 

Gingerbread,  88. 

Gingernniape  and  seed  cookies^  88w 

Gold  and  diver  cake,  87. 

Good  breeding,  principles  ot,  880. 

Gooaeberries^  how  propagated,  808. 

Gouffeo's  recipes,  88. 

Grafting  and  budding,  808. 

Grapes,  easy  way  to  keep,  120;  to  raises 

$00.     . 
Grates  and  stoves,  884. 
Gravies,  always  to  be  strained,  48;  brown 

flour  fur  meat,.40. 
•  Grease  and  staina,  mixturea  for  removing, 

180,194. 
Grease-spots,  to  remove,  184. 
Greens,  how  prepared.  111. 
Green  com,  how  to  cook,  61 ;  pudding,  - 

81 ;  patties,  88. 
Ground-plan  o(  a  house,  184. 
Gruels,  water  and  oat-meal,  108. 

Habits  of  system  and  order,  881,  §1  mq. 

Hair,  laws  of  health  fur  the,  407. 

Ham,  selection  of,  81 ;  recipe  for  molasses- 
cured,  94;  brine  for  pickling,  SO;  to 
smoke,  96^  hash  of  cold,  41  •  boiled,  43; 
how  to  keep,  106;  broiled  eggs  for,  111. 

Hard  yeast,  68. 

Hashes,  common  way  of  spoiling,  88; 
fresh  meat,  cold  meat  and  potatoes,  with 
eggs,  88 ;  with  tomatoee,  nice  beef;  veal, 
rice  and  cold  meat,  bread'Cmmbe  and 
cold  meat,  cold  beefsteak,  40 ;  bold  mut- 
ton or  venison,  corned  beef;  cold  ham, 
meats  warmed  over,  cold  meats,  41; 
souse,  tripe,  48 ;  how  to  dish.  111. 

Hasty  pudding  or  mush,  77. 

Health,  the  care  of;  189, 189. 


imxEZ. 


An 


Heslthrul  rood,  selection  ot,  189. 

Health  of  mind,  288,  U  mq. 

Heart,  thehnmaii,  1S8. 

Heat,  or  caloric;  explained,  IMi 

Helping  at  table,  888. 

Hemming,  bints  on,  868. 

Herrings,  salt,  01 ;  smoked,  106. 

Hominy  for  breakCut  or  snpper,  70 ;  bow 

purchased  and  kept,  106. 
Hominy,  or  rice  stew,  88. 
Hop  and  potato  yeast,  M. 
Horses,  care  ot,  807. 
Hono-radng,  abont,  HL 
Horsford's  method  of  making  floor,  69L 
Hospitality,  the  most  agreeable,  498. 
Hot-beds,  to  prepare,  840. 
*'*HonseandHome  Papers,**  byMrs.Stowe, 

1CB,485. 
Honse-clei^ning,  888. 
Honse  plants,  care  of,  808. 
Honses,  on  the  construction  of,  188-148. 
Hnekleberry  cake,  87. 
Honting  as  a  sport,  440. 
Hygrodeik,  the,  175. 
Hypochondriasis,  887. 
Hysteria,  897. 

ice-cream,  general  directions  for,  96; 
strawberry  ioe,ice-cream  without  cream, 
96;  trvAi  ice>creani,  96;  lemonade  and 
other  ices,  98. 

Iced  fruit,  96. 

Icing  for  cake,  89. 

Indian  meal,  how  purchased  and  kept, 
106. 

Indian  pudding  boiled,  without  eggs,  79; 

>  baked,  81. . 

Indiana  pickles,  68w 

Indigo,  to  purchase  snd  keep,  107. 

Industrial  schools,  888. 

Infimts,  pure  air  for,  868 ;  mortality 
among,  890 ;  on  giring  to  the  older  chil- 
dren, 891 ;  ignorance  of  parents  concern- 
ing, 891  ;  importance  of  knowing  how 
to  take  care  of;  898 ;  Ck>mbe  and  Bell 
dted,  898,  €t  mq. ;  food  for,  894 ;  medi- 
cines for,  894;  keeping  warm,  896 ;  keep- 
ing their  heads  co61,  896;  bathing,  896; 
to  creep,  897 :  habits,  897 ;  teething,  886 ; 
constipation,  890 ;  diarrhoBa,  890 ;  use  of 
water  in' lbTer,400i 

Ingrafting,  88& 

Ink,  indelible,  how  to  make,  188. 

Ink-ctains,  to  remore,  ISL 


InstinctlTe  love,  878L 

Intemperance  in  eating,  814, 818. 

InToluntary  motion,  nerves  of;  804. 

Iodide  of  potassium,  antidote  for,  86S. 

Irish  stew,  81. 

Ironing,  articles  to  be  pmrided  for,  117; 

general  directions  for,  119. 
Iron,  to  stop  cracks  in,  188. 
Iron-ware  for  kitchen,  846. 
Isinglass,  to  clarify,  96 ;  American,  106. 

Jellies  and  preserres,  to  prepare,  90. 
Jelly,  white  wine,  96;  apple,  orange,  96; 

what  senred  with,  110. 
Jelly-cake,  86w 

Kid  gloTcs,  to  dean,  121 ;  another  way, 

184. 
Kidneys,  ftxnction  of  the  human,  236. 
Kidi^eys,  to  cook,  4^ 
Kitchen,  care  of  a,  848 ;  fhmitnre  for  a, 

846 ;  plan  for  a,  141. 

Laces,  to  do  up,  117. 

Lamb  chops,  broiled,  60L 

Lamb,  to  bofl  a  shoulder  or  leg,  44 

Lamp-oil,  to  remove  stains  of,  18L 

Lamps,  oil  and  kerosene,  826L 

Lard  and  drippings,  to  keep,  101 

Lard,  to  try  out,  84. 

Laughter  Is  healthy,  449. 

Laws  of  health,  for  the  bones,  for  the 

musdes,  464 ;  for  the  lungs,  for  the  dl- 

gestire  organs,  406;  for  the  skin,  466; 

for  the  brain  and  nenres,  for  the  teeth, 

eyes,  and  hair,  467. 
Laying  out  yards  and  gardens,  861. 
Laxy  gentleman,  a,  878. 
Lead,  antidote  for,  863. 
Leeds*s  method  of  rentilatloo,  171. 
Lemon  pudding,  88 ;  jelly,  97 1  peel,  107. 
Lemonade  ice,  96. 
Lettuce  salad,  67. 


Lewis,  Dr.  DIo,  on  TentHation,  109. 
Light  essential  to  health,  281 
Light  for  animals,'  807. 
Lightning,  struck  by,  869. 
Lights  for  a  house,  886. 
Lime  or  baryta,  antidote  for,  868. 
LiTer,  calf  or  pig,  beef;  to  cook,  61. 
Ltrer,  use  of  the  hnman,  881 
Loaf  pudding,  88;  cake,  88.  ' 
LoBgerity,  8lr  John  Sindair  oo,  867. 


4?6 


UfDBX. 


Langf,  the  banuui,  101 ;  laws  of  bealih 

for,  45& 
Lye,  to  nuke,  11& 

Hacahml,  how  pnrchaaed  and  kept,  IDS. 

lUcaroni  pudding,  8L 

Mahogtnj  ftarnitnre,  888. 

M«n;(oet,  pickled.  Si, 

Miinnen  at  home  and  In  todety,  MO,  it 

teq, 
ICanoen  to  fenrantf ,  48Sw 
Marketing,  la. 

Harmalade,  qaince,  M  ^  orange,  97. 
Martinoea,  to  pickle,  54 
Mattreseea,  189, 841. 
Heasnrea  of  qoantity,  88. 
Meat  and  mak  paddings,  78. 
Mechanical  akill  developed  in  children, 

4S0. 
Medicines,  the  nse  ot  814,  tt  teq,  _ 
Melancholy,  condition  of^  897. 
Mental  health  and  disease,  894,  «C  uq. 
Metal  dishes,  never  cool  sonp  in,  80. 
Mice  and  rats,  to  get  rid  of,  184. 
Mildew,  to  remove,  119. 
Milk  and  egg  sance,  60. 
Milk,  dangerous  nse  of,  101 ;  as  a  drink, 

988. 
Milk  lemonade,  101. 
Mint  sance  for  lamb,  08. 
Mlnnte  pudding  of  potato  starch,  7& 
Mock  cream,  79. 
Model  ventilation,  178,  ft  teq. 
Moistnre  in  air  necessary,  17S. 
Molasses,  to  porchase  and  keep,  108. 
Moral  character,  what  constitutes,  871. 
Mncous  membrane,  the,  887. 
Muffins,  wheat,  of  flour,  tine  or  unbolted, 

78. 
Muscles,  laws  of  health  for  the,  40i. 
Muscular  exercise,  808,  ei  teq. 
Mush  or  hasty  pudding,  7T. 
Mushrooms,  pickled,  08. . 
Music,  considered  as  a  recreation,  448. 
Muslin  curtains,  194* 
Muslins,  to  starch,  117. 
Mutton— division  of  a  sheep,  90;  seleo- 

tioii  oA  21 ;  and  turnip  stew,  80;  soup, 

88 ;  hash,  41 ;  boiled  leg  or  shoulder  of; 

44;  roast, 47;  pie, 48. 
Mutton  chops,  broiled,  00, 

Napkins,  table,  109. 
Nasturtions,  pickled,  08. 


Nerves,  laws  of  health  fat  the,  4BT. 
Nervous  systenirthe,  deacribedt  tOt. 
Nervonaneis  in  tick  people^  llQ. 
Nettle-raah  canaed  by  Ibod,  MOl 
Night  air,  prejudice  agatnst,  180.' 
Nitrate  of  silver,  antidote  fcr,  888. 
Novel-reading,  888»  440. 
Nursery,  selection  of  helperain  the,  180L 
Nursing  the  sick,  818l 

Oat-meal  bread,  88 ;  fi>r  breakflut  or  eap- 

per,  71 ;  bow  purchaaed  andkept, lC6w 
Odds  and  ends,  advice  about,  194. 
Oil,  to  purchaae  and  keep,  108L 
Oil-paint,  to  remove  spots  of,  101. 
OffUMnanio,  disease  of  the  brain,  n& 
011a  podrida,  redpe  for,  88. 
Omelet  of  eggs,  01 ;  plain,  bread,  apple, 

88;  oysters,  08. 
One,  two,  three,  four  cake,  88. 
Onions,  used  as  flavoring,  86 ;  pickled,  08  j 

to  cook,  08. 
Open  flre-places,16a;  the  advantages  oU 

160.  • 

Opium,  the  use  of,  888 ;  antidote  for, 

800. 
Orange-cake,  80 ;   marmalade,  97 ;  Jelly, 

98;  peel,  107. 
Ornamental  froth,  98. 
Ornamentation  of  a  house,  128. 
Orphan  asylum  at  Albany,  treatment  of 

children  in  the,  401. 
Oyster  plant,  or  salsify,  to  cook,  01. 
Oysters,  stewed,  fried,  fritters,  scalloped, 

broiled,  omelet,  pickled,  08 ;  roaat,  09. 
Ox-muszle  ma^e  into  an  ornament,  198. 
Oxygen,  amount  of  In  (hU-grown  man, 

100. 

Packing  and  storing  .ari  ides,  848. 

Panada,  109. 

Pancreaa  gland,  the,  888. 

Pan  dowdy,  78. 

Paper  to  kisep  preserves,  188. 

Paralysis  of  portion  of  the  bndn,  906L 

Parlor  cheaply  ftimished,  190. 

Parsley,  as  a  garnish.  111. 

Parsnips,  how  to  cook,  88. 

Partridges,  to  boil,  40. 

Paste  for  puddings  and  pies  shonldbe  ban- 
ished from  every  table,  88;  pie-croata, 
88;  dlrectiona  for  making  rich  pie- 
crusts, 84. 

Patties  of  green  com,  like  oystets,  88. 


IXDSX 


479 


Pm  <greeii  or  dried)  loap,  87. 

Peaches,  pickled;  OS;  in  pie, X9 ;  how  to 
preserTe,91. 

Pearl  harley-water,  103. 

Pearl  ba^'ley  and  peaii  wheat,  how  pnr- 
chaaed  and  kept,  10& 

Pearl  wheat  or  cracked  wheat,  71. 

Peart,  to  preaenre,  M. 

Peppera,  pickled,  68L 

Perspiration  tabes,  length  of,  987. 

Philadelphia,  death-irate  of;  168. 

Philanthropy,  instancesof  tme,  880. 

Phln,  ProfiMsor,  on  lighting  houses,  891 

Phosphorus,  antidote  for,  888. 

Pickle  for  cold  flsb,  60. 

Pickled  oysters,  66w 

Pickles,  general  directions,  68, 110 ;  sweet, 
tomatoes, peaches,  OS;  peppers,  nastnr- 
tions,  onions,  gherkins,  mnshrooms,  en- 
cumbers, wslnats,  68;  mangoes,  cab- 
bage, martinoes,  cnciunbecs,  64;' Indi- 
ana, canlillower,  or  broccoli,  60;  nsTer 
keep  in  glased  ware,  106L 

Pictures,  the  hanging  oA  8SS. 

Pie,  pouto,  48. 

Pie-crusts,  88,  84. 

Piece-bag,  a,  148. 

Plea— meat,  mnttoo,  beef;  chicken,  rice- 
chicken,  4& 

Pigeons,  to  boil,  40. 

Pigs,  benefited  by -cleanliness,  941. 

Pilafl;  or  Turldah  stew,  89. 

Pnian,  a  fkrorite  dish  in  the  Sooth,  44. 

.Pine-apples^  to  presenre,  99. 

Pitch,  to  remoTe  spots  of;  190. 

Plain  cake,  raised  with  eggs,  87. 

Planting  flower  and  garden  seeds,  800. 

Plum  pie,  79. 

Plum  pudding,  cracker,  89. 

Plums,  to  presenre,  OS. 

Poisons,  antidotes  for  certain,  887. 

Pop-orers,  of  corn-meal,  78. 

Pork,  difiaions  of  a  hog,  91 ;  aelection  of, 
91;  to  salt,  94,  96;  billed,  60;  fkeah, 
lia 

Potash  soap,  to  make,  116w 

Potato,  rarious '  modea  of  cooking,  80 ; 
aoDp,88;  pie,48;  biscuit, 88;  yeast, 86; 
starch  pudding,  TBl 
'i\)<  om/mi,  or  FMneh  stew,  89. 

PoUpie   beef.  Teal,  or  chldwui  47. . 

Poultry,  selectloB  oi;  91 ;  when  and  how 
to  be  k01ed,99;  boDed,UO:  cars  of; 
81L 


Pound-cake,  87. 

Precocity,  Jorenile,  90kL 

Presenres  and  Jellies^  general  direetiona, 
00 ;  how  to  keep,  106. 

Presenring  fhiit-treOs,  860. 

Propagation  of  planta,  868. 

Property,  on  using  properly,  STB. 

Pruning,  866b 

Prussic  add,  antidote  for,  868. 

Puddings  and  ples^  74 ;  queen  of  all  pud- 
dings, 70  ;  flour  puddings,  flour  and 
Ihiit,  rusk  and  n>ilk,  rusk,  70 ;  meat  and 
rusk  (one  easily  made),  pan  dowdy,  corn- 
meal,  popoTers,  best  apple-pie,  rice  pud- 
ding, 76 ;  bread  and  friiit  pudding,  boil- 
ed-ficuit  pudding,  BngUah  curd  podding, 
common  apple-pie,  plain  caBtard,.mosb 
or  hasty  padding,  77;  stale  bread,  ren- 
net custard,  bird*snest  pudding,  ninate 
padding  of  potato  starch,  tapioca  pad- 
ding, ooooarnut  pudding,  78;  pumpkin- 
pie,  ripe-flruit  pies,  mock  cream,  pad- 
ding of  fhiit  and  bread -crumbs,  bread 
and  apple  dumplings,  Indian  pudding 
without  eggs,  boiled  Indian  and  suet 
puddings,  79 ;  dessert  of  rice  and  Ihiit, 
rice  and  apple,  rich  flour  pudding,  80 ; 
apple*pie,  80;  spiced  apple-tarts,  baked 
Indian  pudding,  apple  costard,  maca- 
roni or  Termicelli  puddings,  green-com 
pudding,  bread  pudding  f^r  iniralida, 
81 ;  a  good  pudding,  loaf  pudding,  lem- 
on pudding,  green-corn  patties,  cracker 
plum  pudding,  bread-and-butter  pud- 
ding, 89 ;  saacea  for  puddings,  89 ;  paste 
for  puddings  and  piea,  88. 

Pumpkin  and  squaah,how  to  eeok,89: 
bread,  68;  pie,  79;  preaen^ed,  94* 

Puritana,  deeoendanta  of  the,  989. 

Pyramid  for  a  table,  99. 

Qoantity,  measorea  of;  98. 
Queen  of  all  pnddinga,  7B. 
<^iincea,  to  presai  i  e,  91 ;  jelly,  91 ;  mar- 
malade,94. 

Radiation  of  beat,  16& 
Radiahea,'to  prepare,  68l 
BaUns;  to  porchaae  and  ketp,  107. 
Banges^  cookings  189,  H  sag. 


Baq>bflrr7  Jam,  98;  whiak,  98;  Tinegai; 

lot 
Beta  and  mloa,  to  get  rid  oi;  191 


480 


INDBX. 


Beading  for  the  yonng,  •uiUbto,  4i6L 

BeflecUon  of  heat,  16S^ 

Belief  bettowing,  88BL 

Bellglon,  power  of;  in  the  hooiehold,  S80 ; 

of  aenranta,  488. 
Beligious  trainbg  in  the  fkmD j,  414|  it 

Bennet,  to  prepare,  28 ;  costard,  78 ;  wine^ 

78 ;  whey,  108. 
ilmi'W  poioir  of  the  body,  108. 
Bioei  modes  of  astog,  78 ;  as  stew,  88 ;  with 

cold -meat  hash,  88,  41;  for  breaklkst 

-mud  tapper,  70 ;  waffles,  78 ;  padding, 

.  76 ;  and  frait  dessert,  80 ;  how  to  par- 

,  chase  and  keep,  100 ;  plain  boiled,  110. 

Bight  ose  of  time  and  property,  870^  tt 

'  Boast  oysters,  50. 

Boast  and  baked  meats— bee^'to  roast,  in 
a  cook- store,  pork,  46;  mutton,  Teal, 
poultry,  pot-pie  Of  bee(  real,  or  chicken, 
47 ;  matton  and  beef  pie,  chicken -pie, 
rice  chicken-pie,  potato^ie,  calfs  head, 
4& 

Bolls,  of  corn-meal,  00. 

Booms,  the  care  ot,  880. 

Bose-boshes,  badding,  868. 

Boees  and  other  plants,  how' to  treat,  128. 

Boyal  crumpets,  72. 

Bales  for  setting  a  table,  887. 

Buak  puddings,  75. 

Busk  and  milk,  75. 

Bask  and  meat  puddings,  70. 

Bast  ttom  knives,  to  keep,  122. 

Bye,  how  purchased  and  kept,  10& 

Bye  and  Indian  bread;  08. 

Bye  or  com  meal  for  breokftst  or  supper, 
7a 

8achem*B  head  corn-cake,  78.  . 

Sago,  how  purchased  iind  kept,  10& 

Salad,  chicken,  96 ;  a  dressing  for,  07. 

Bally  Lunn,  improved,  78. 

Salsify,  or  oyster-plant,  61. 

Salt,  to  purdiase  and  keep,  106. 

Salt,  to  meats,  22;  to  beef;  28;  toflsb,28; 
for  animals,  807. 

Salt  herrings,  61.  .' 

Salted  prorisioins  miist  be  watched,  106. 

Sal  volatiTe,  how  presenred,  106. 

Sassafras  Jelly,  108. 

Ssnces  milk  and  egg,  drawn  butter,  mint, 
cranberry,  apple,  walnut  or  butternut 
catanp,  66 ;  mock  capers,  saM  dressing, 


07;  tomato  «atsnp»  Of;  for  poddingi, 

Uqoid,  82;  hard,  a  heidthflil,  an  excel-. 

]ent,88. 
Sausages,  to  prepare  cases, 26;  meat, 26; 

bologna,  26. 
Scalloped  oysters,  08b 
Scallops,  to  cook,  00. 
Science  and  training  needfhl  to  women, 

127. 
Scissors,  leeaons  in  use  of;  ^62. 
Scorched  articles,  how  to  whiten,  118. 
Screws,  moTabIe,186L 
ScrofSla,  produced  byJoul  air,  186. 
Sea-dckness  aggrarated  by  bad  air,  100. 
Seasoning,  difficulty  of  directing  as  to,  26. 
Secreting  organs,  the,  28& 
Selection  of  meats,  poultry,  and  fish,  16- 

22. 
Servants,  training  and  government  of; 

130;  the  care  of, 424,  titeq. 
Sewing,  hinta  on,  861 ;  in  public  schools^ 

868. 
Sewing-machines,  864. 
Sheep,  6are  of;  810. 
Shelter  for  animals,  806. 
Sick,  drinks  and  articles  for  the,  100 ;  care 

of;  818,  «C  §eq. 
Silk,  directions  for  ironing,  119 ;  to  reno- 
vate black,  128. 
Silk  kerchiefb  and  ribbons,  to  clean ;  silk 

-hose  and  gloves,  to  clean,  121. 
Silver,  to  clean,  188. 
Simple  drinks,  101. 
Sirup  for  sweetmeats,  91. 
Sisters  of  Charity,  822. 
Skin,  the  human,  230;  ftincUons  of;  104; 

laws  of  health  for,i66. 
Sleeping-rooms,  ventilation  in,  177. 
Smoke  hams,  how  to»  26. 
Smoked  tongues,  to  boll,  44. 
Smoky  chimneys,   cause   and  rsmedy, 

190.  .  - 

Snow,  a  dish  of;  99. 
Snow  fbr. eggs,  128. 
Soap,  to  purchase  and  keep,  107;  to  make 

soft  soap,  116. : 
Social  duties  and  amusements,  4^0,  H  sag. 
Soda,  to  purchase  and  keep,  107. 
iSoda  biscuits,  60. 
Soft  soap,  tojnake,  116. 
Soil  fbr  pot-planta;  to  prepare,  849. 
Soups^-general  directions  fbr  making,  85; 
'  potato^  gTMn'  c6m,  86 ;~  plain  beei;  rich 

beef,  green  pea,  dried  bean  or  pea,  claia. 


INDEX. 


481- 


ST;  mattoD,  FreDch  vegetable,  plain 
calf  ■  head,  88. 

Soiiae,4S. 

S07,  a  fuhionable  saace,  110. 

SjMuiiBh  olla  podrida,  recipe  for,  88. 

Spencer  (Herbert),  on  treatment  of  oif- 
tpring,  890.V 

Spermaceti,  to  remove  spots  of,  181. 

Spiced  apple-tarta,  81. 

Spf  ces,  how  parcbased  and  kept,  107. 

Spine,  the  hnman,  244. 

Split-grafting,  86B. 

Spongecake,  rich,  87 ;  plain,  83. 

Sprains,  remedies  for,  866. 

Sprinkling,  folding,  and  ironing,  118. 

Sqnash  and  pompkin,  how  to  cook,  62; 
pie,79. 

Stains  and  grease,  mixtares  for  removing, 
119,180. 

Stale-bread  padding,  78. 

Starch,  to  porchase  and  keep,  107 ;  to  pre- 
pare, 110. 

Starching  mnslins  and  laces,  117. 

Steam-coils  for  warming  dwellings,  180. 

Steam-doctors,  840. 

Stew  or  soop  kettle,  28. 

Stewed  oysters,  OS. 

Stews,  general  directions  for,  29 ;  varie- 
ties oi;  80. 

Stimniants  unnecessary,  820. 

Stimulating  food,  281.  * 

Stock  for  soap,  86. 

Store-room,  cool  and  dry  place  indippens- 
able,  104 ;  plan  for  a,  141 ;  the  care  of; 
843. 

Stores,  providing  and  care  of  ftunily,  106. 

Stoves  and  grates,  88*. 

Stoves  are  economical,  177 ;  for  cooking, 
188;  durability  of  the  cottage -stove, 
18T. 

Stowe*s,  Mrs.,  "Honse  and  Home  Pa- 
pers," 100, 48& 

Strawberries,  to  preserve,  96 ;  the  proper 
soil  for,  808. 

Strawberi7-ioe,  96;  whiak,  96;  vinffgar^ 
101. 

Straw-matting  for  chambera,  888. 

Strong*llavored  meats,  HO. 

Strychnine,  antidote  for,  869. 

Saccotash,  how  to  cook,  61. 

Solfocation  throagfa  defective  flues,  191. 

Sugar  an  unwholesome  diet,  74. 

Sugars,  how  purchased  and  kept,  lOB. 

Suitable  meats  and  vegetables,  UO. 


Supper-dishes,  70-78. 

Sweet  herbs,  how  preserved,  107. 

Sw^t  potatoes,  to  cook,  61. 

Sweet-breads,  calf's,  44 ;  broiled,  00. 

Swine,  care  oi;  810. 

System  and  order,  habits  ot,  281,  €t  mq. 

Table  Aimiture,  886. 
Table  manners,  868. 
Tables,  art  of  setting,  109, 886;  rules  for 

setting,  887;  for  dinners,  887;  waiting 

on,  888.  ' 
Tapioca,  how  purchased  and  kept,  100 ; 

as  a  pudding,  78. 
Tar,  to  remove'spots  ot,  120. 
Taylor's,  Dr.  Qeorge,  movement  cure,  207. 
Tea,  to  make,  100 ;  cream  for,  101 ;  the 

purchase  of,  107 ;  for  children,  280;  as  a 

beverage,  281. 
Teeth,  laws  of  health  for  the,  407. 
Temper,  preservation  of  good,  874,  «C  mq. 
Theatres,  regarding,  448. 
Thinning  firuit  on  trees,  806. 
Third  bread,  68. 

Tight-lacing,  the  evils  of;  247,  it  mq. 
Tiqeand  property,  right  use  oi;  870,  «i  mq» 
Time,  on  apportioning,  870;  on  saving, 

876 ;  devoted  by  Jews  to  religion,  877. 
Tin  ware  for  kitchen,  846. 
Toast  and  dder,  101. 
Tobacco,  the  use  of,  888. 
Tomatoes,  with  meat  •  bash,  40 ;  pickled, 

08;  excellent  way  of  preparing,  04  r  to 

cook, 68;  sirup,  108. 
Tongues,  to  boil  smoked,  44 
Tortures  inflicted  by  fiishton,  249. 
Tough  beei;  how  to  boil,  48. 
Training  necessary  for  women,  127. 
Transplanting,  directions   for,  801 ;.  for 

trees,  888. 
Trials  of  a  housekeeper,  270,  et  aeq. 
Tripe,48. 

Turkeys,  to  boil,  40 ;  salad,  07. 
Turkish  stew,  or  pllali;  88. 
Tnrpeptine,  to  remove  spot^  of,  120. 
Typhoid  fever  and  the  microscope,  161. 
Tyranny  of  servants,  488. 

Unbolted  flour  to  be  kept  In  kegs,  106. 

Variety  at  meals,  819. 
Variety  of  food  necessary,  104. 
Vamiahed  articles,  to  remove  stains  00, 
121. 


21 


482 


INDBZ. 


Teal,  leatOD  for  ate,  SO ;  diritions  ot,  fO; 
Mlectioo  oi;SO;  haah,  40;  boiled,  44; 
roMt,  47;  pot-pto  of;  47;  broiled,  60; 
▼eal  cheeee,  61 ;  broile(\  with  eggs,  HI. 

YegeUble  food,  917. 

TegeUblee— potatoee,  00 ;  tweet  pota- 
toef,  green  com,  raccotash,  sftlsify,  or 
oyster  pUnt,  egg  plant,  carrots,  beets, 
61;  parsnips,  pampkins,  and  squash, 
celery,  radishes,  onions,  tomatoes,  en- 
cmnberi,  cabbage,  and  canliflower,  OS ; 
asparagns,  macaroni,  08. 

Yegctables  should  not  be  boiled  in  sonp, 
88.- 

Telret,  directions  for  ironing,  119. 

Venison  or  mutton  hash,  41. 

Ventilation,  importance  of,  100,  et  uq. 

Vermicelli  pudding,  81 ;  the  purchase  of; 
lOB.    . 

Vermin  in  animals,  807. 

WafBes  of  unbolted  flour,  72 ;  of  rice,  73. 

Waiting  at  Ubie,  888.. 

Wall-paper,  to  cleanse,  128. 

Walnut  catsup,  06. 

Walnuts,  pickled,  68. 

Ward  cases,  190. 

Wanned-orer  meats  made  into  hash,  41. 

Warming  a  home,  104. 

Warm  plates,  110. 

Washing  dishes,  844 ;  rules  for,  846. 

Washing,  ironing,  and  cleansing,  neces- 
saries ft>^,  lis ;  .common  mode  of  wash- 
ing, 118;  flannels,  bedding,  calicoes, 
114 ;  use  of  bran  water,  114 ;  use  of  pota- 
to-water, 110;  to  cleanse  broadcloth,  116. 


Wash-leather  artlclei,  to  clean,  ISl. 

Wateivenre,  the,  940. 

Water-gruel,  109. 

Water>melon  rinds,  to  presenre,  94. 

Wax,  to  remore  spots  of;  121. 

Weekly  apportionment  of  work,  287. 

Well,  to  purify  a,  128. 

Wheat  muffins,  78. 

Whiten  articles,  to,  119. 

White  tea,  and  boys'  coffee,  101. 

Whip-grafting,  866. 

Whip  syllabub,  97. 

Wine  Jelly,  00. 

Wine  whey,  101.  ^ 

Women,  courtesy  to,  964. 

Wood,  a  cord  and  a  load  of,  824. 

Wooden  ware  for  kitchen,  847. 

Wood-work  of  a  house,  148. 

Yeast,  brewers'  or  distillers',  the  best,  hop 
and  potato  yeast,  hard  yeast,  00. 

Young  children,  management  of,  in  the 
Orphan  Asylom  at  Albany,  401 ;  effects 
of  eaUng  too  often,  402 ;  the  intellectual 
training  of,  40S ;  habits  of  BubmLasion, 
408 ;  self-denial,  404 ;  sensitiveness,  406 ; 
unsteadiness  in,  and  oTer^vemment,. 
400;  multiplication  of  rules,  407; 'govern 
by  rewards,  avoid  angry  tones,  408; 
moral  habits,  410 ;  cultivation  of  habits 
of  modesty,  411 ;  treatment  of  fbrbiddeu 
topics,  411;  purity  of  thought,  41S;  wnrA- 
ing  to  parents,  418. 

Young  girl,  dressing  properly  a,  261. 

Zymotic  diseases,  161. 


THE  ENP. 


VALUABLE  AND  INT£IUBSTIN6  WORKS 

FOR 

PUBLIC  &  PRIYATE  LIBRARIES, 

FuBUBHXD  BT  HAllPEB  &  BROTHERS,  Nsw  York. 


For  a  AM  LUt  ^  Bookt  $uitabiUfor  Li^raHst,  9m  Habpxb  A  BsomiBs* 
TmADS-Lnr  and  Cataloous,  tohieh  may  b§  had  gratuUautly  €n  ap- 
fHioaUon  &  th$  PuUithen  pertonaUi/,  or  hy  letur  muHMtng  Sic  (knU 
in  Pottay  *8tampi, 

Haxpie  a  BBOmus  wM  tmd  any  inf  the/oOowtny  workt  by  mail,  pott- 
Of  prtpaidt  to  any  part  of  iht  Untud  Stalu^  on  rootipt  nftkeprie$, 

FLAMMAKTbN'8  ATMOSPHERE.  The  Atmospbere.  TrtnalAtod  fW>in  the 
French  of  Camivlm  Flamxaeiom.  Edited  bj  Jamxs  OLAitant,  F.R.S., 
Saperlntendent  of  the  Magnetical  and  Meteorological  Depertment  of  the 
Royal  Ohserratonr  at  Oreenirich.  Wllh  10  Chromo-LithographB  and  86 
Woodcnts.    8to,  Cloth,  $6  00. 

HUBSOirS  HISTORY  OF  JOURNALISM.  JournalUm  in  the  United  States, 
flrom  1090  to  1872.    By  FmsDSBiOK  Huneoic    Crown  8to,  Cloth,  $S  00. 

PIKE'S  SUB>TROPICAC  RAMBLS&  Snb-Troplcal  Ramblea  in  the  Land 
of  the  Apbanapterrx.  By  Nicolas  Pexx.  tJ.  &  Consnl.  Port  Loots, 
Manritios.  Proftisely  Illnstrated  from  the  Author's  own  Sketches ;  con- 
talnine  also  Maps  and  Valoable  Meteorological  Charts.  Crown  Sro, 
Cloth,  $8  60. 

TRISTRAM'S  THE  LAND  OF  MOAB.  The  Resnlt  of  Trarels  and  DIscot- 
eries  on  the  East  Side  of  the  Dead  Sea  and  the  Jordan.  By  H.BL  Tais- 
TBAM,  M.A.,  LL.D.,  F.R.S.,  Master  of  the  Oreatham  Hospital,  and  Hon. 
Canon  of  Dorbam.  With  a  Chapter  on  the  Persian  Palace  of  Mashtta, 
by  Jas;  FnauBOir,  F.R.S.  With  Map  and  Hlostratlons.  Crown  8to, 
Cloth,  $S  60. . 

SANTO  DOMINGO,  Past  and  Present;  with  a  blance  at  HaytL  By  ^AiiiraL 
Hazaxdw    Maps  and  Illostrations.    Crown  8to,  Cloth,  $1  60. 

LIFE  OF  ALFRED  COOKMAN.  The  Life  of  the  Rer.  Alfred  Cookman ; 
with  some  Accoant  of  his  Father,  the  Rst.  George  Grimtton  Cookman. 
By  HaMET B.  Rii>oawat.  D.D.  -With  an  lotrddnctlon  by  Bishop Foerza, 
LLD.    Portrait  on  Steel    12mo,  Cloth,  $S  00. 

HERVET'S  CHRISTIAN  RHETORIC  A  System  of  Christlsn  Rhetoric, 
for  the  Um  of  Preachers  snd  Other  Speakers.  By  Gansos  Winfekt) 
Hketbt,  M.A.,  Aathor  of  "  Rhetoric  of  Conversation, **  Stc  8vo,  Cloth, 
$3  60. 

CASTELAR'S  OLD  ROME  AND  NEW  ITALY.  '  Old  Rome  and  New  Italy. 
By  Emilio  Castblab.  Translated  by  Mrs.  Aaruaa  AaMOLD^  lima. 
Cloth,  $1  7& 

THE  TREATY  OF  WASHINGTON:  lU  Negotiation, Execntion,  and  the 
Discussions  Relating  Thereta  By  Caleb  CosniMO.  Crown  Svo,  Cloth, 
$S00. 

PRIME'S  I  GO  A-FISHINO.  I  Go  a-FisMng.  ByW.C.PaiMB.  Crown  Svo, 
Cloth,  IS  50. 

HALLOCK'S  FISHING  TOURIST.  The  Fishing  Tonrist:  Angler's  Gaide 
Aud  Reference  Boqk.  By  Cuablks  Uallocb.  Illnstrations.  Crown 
Sro,  Cloth,  $9  ua 

SCOTTS  AMERICAN  FI.<«HIXa  Fishing  in  American  Waters.  By  Gb- 
bio  C.  Soott.    With  170  Illostrations.    Crown  8to,  Cloth,  $3  60l 


a'  '      Harptr  ^  Brtthtr/  yaluailt  atid  Inttnitii^  Werkt. 

AHNUAL  RECORD  OF  SCIBNCB  AKD  INDHSTBT  FOR  ISTl.  SdlMd 
b*  ProL  Sniion  T.  B^iu,  of  Iha  BmltbumUn  InitllnliDii,  wltb  Ua  Ai- 
■(■Unoa  0f  finlsanL  Man  of  Bcitnee.  tlno,  oTir  TOO  pp.,  Cloth,  ^  00. 
fflnlfoim  vlU  tbe  Armiua  Bttati  af  acHmt  mid  InAilrg  far  ISIl. 
llma,C10t]k,nOO.) 
COL  FORNBT^  ANECDOTBB  OF  PUBLIC  MKN.    AsMdoM  of  PubUe 

Hon.    Br  foiw  W.  Fduit.    ltmo,Clutb,tl  OUl 
KISS  BKBO&IR^  HOCSIKnPBH  AND  HIALTHKSSPKR :  ConUIn- 
log  F)Ta  Hondnd  Hadpta  toi  Eeoaooilal  ud  Baaltbdil  Coakloc  i  alio, 
jnanjrDlractlmii  furwcnrtne  HwlUi  uidHap^Dna.    ApproTad  br  Phr- 
■Iduw  or  411  CUiaal,    niluIntlDItt.    lima.  Cloth,  (1  SO. 
FABUBALLAD9.    St  Will  CinrrDii.    Bud»in<lr  Illoitntad.   SqoDTe 

Sto,  Omimenul  C'loUi,  fa  00 ;  Ullt  BdfH,  f3  M. 
POtn.^  a  Poali  <  f  ibe  KlD«- 

V-v:  ■     '.  ItuBKiiT  Aaia  Will- 

jioTT.     i\  IN  !   I  ■     rj      .  '  Ai  ■       .-I    \.'  ■    :  ■■■-,  /imiiged  br  Etist  a. 

"Dti..i.;B,.i..  L^.Lj.-  I,:  ■■  !„;..  ,.,i L  1,1  A^L..L..u  UWraiore."    Comprit- 

Ing  9ole«ir)D»  fr"ni  Ihs  (Irfnietl  Aulhon  of  ihe  Ac*.  SoparWi  Ilhu- 
tnued  wltb  Ul  XofrsvlDgs  rrom  Deslgni  by  th«  mnu  Emluant  Artltta. 
la  alcnnc  aniill  lio  romi,  prloitd  on  SnperiJna  TMti  Paper,  lichl; 
iMDDdlDaitraCJoIb.  BiiTclad,OmEdj(ea,£a00i  Halt  Calf,  «>  M ;  Full 
Turkoj  MorDtco,  19  00. 
THE  KSV18I0N  OP  THE  KNOUSn  VBRSION  OF  TBE  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT. ■  Wlib  an  InlrodncUoQ  bj  Ibe  Rair.  P.  Soiiitr,  D.l).  018  pp., 
Crown  Bto,  Cloth,  U  Od 

Thli  work  STiibriicai  In  ons  Tolume: 
L  ON  A  FRBSn  REVISION  OF  TBE  ENOLISH  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT.   Br  J.  B.  LtanmwT,  D.IX,  Canon  of  St.  Pmra,  and  Bal- 
aaan  Prolewat  of  SiTlnUj,  Cambtldga.    Bacood  EdltlDo,  BeTlaad. 
1M  pp. 
II.  ON  TBE   AOTBORIZED   VERSION  OF  THE  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT In  CDonacllon  wlih  tain*  Recent  Propatnli  fiv  lu  BctIiIod. 
BjRioHiiDCuliiiTii  Taaiiou,  D.D.,  ArchbUboijatDDblis.   1H  pp. 
m.  CONSIDERATIONS   ON  TBE  REVISION  OF  THE  ENQU8B 
VEBSiON  OF  TBB  NEW  TESTAMENT,    8t  C.  J.  Buliocrt,  D.D., 
Blihop  or  QloncMtai  ud  BrlatoL    ITS  pp. 
N0RDH0FF9  CAUFORNIA.    CallRjrnU!  ForHaaltb.Plaann,  andBM. 
Idance.     A  Book  lor  TnTalan  and  BaCtlan.    llluatntad.     Bro,  Paper, 
)l«)iaolh,tSEO. 
MOTLEYS  DUTCB  HEPOBUa    The  Rife  of  the  Dnteh  Rapnhllc.    Br 
Joan  LoniBDP  MoTLir,  LL.I).,  D.C.L.     Wiih  a  Portrait  of  WUllun  of 
'  Orange.    >  toI*.,  Bto,  Clolb,  flD  BO. 
MOTLEY'S   miTBD  NKTHKHLANDS.     Blalorr  of  Ihe  Unllad  Nalhar- 
landi :  bnm  Iba  I>e[irb  of  William  Ibe  Slleot  to  tbe  Tweire  Yean'  Trace 
~I«m.     With  n  foil  Vlev  of  tha  Bngllab-Dntch  Stmggle  anlDit  Spain, 
and  of  the  OrWo  nnd  Descmi^tloD  ol  the  Sptnlsh  Armadn.     Bt  Jouk 
Loniior  Uoti.it,  LL.D.,  D.C.L.    Poitialts.    i  Tola.,  Sto.  Cloth,  ju  00. 
NAPOLEON'S  LIFE  OP  CfiSAIL    The  Hllti 
.    lata  Imperial  JfaleglTNipor.ioH  111   Two 
tloa,  Sro,  Clolh,  t>  BO  per  toL 
BATON'S  DICTIONARY  OF  DATES,  nlatlng  to  all  Aoei  IBd  Natloni. 
"--"-'-niealHererODee.   Edited  bj BinijiMin  VmotiiT,  Anlaianl  Secre- 
Llhrai7  or  the  Soral  Inetllnlion  orOraat  Britain  1 


Unr  and  Keeper  of  the  ijbra 
*nd.RaTlHd  for  Ibe  Die  of  Ai 

N  TBE  JOl 

-»*i-T .-_;eri  of  DamsKnl,    Br  J 

With  Hnp*  and  UlnilralloDi.    Crown  Bto,  Cloth,  13 


incaa  Rsaden.    Bto,  Cloth,  IS  00 1  Sheep, 

•too. 

HAOQREQOR'S  ROB  ROY  ON  TBE  JORDAN.     The  Rob  Rot  on  lh« 

Jordan,  Nile,  Red  Set,  and  Oenneiareih.  die    A  CanoeCralealn  Pale*- 
-'-\t  jBdKgJpt  nnd  thaWati '" "-  '  " "  ' 


Harper  &*  BrothiriP  ValuabU  and  IiiitresHng  Works,         3 

WALLACE'S  MALAY  ARCmPBLAOO.  The  HaUr  Archipelago:  the 
Land  of  the  Oranq-Utan  and  the  Bird  of  Paradiae.  A  Narranre  of  Trav- 
el, 1854-1SC8.  With  Siadiea  of  Man  and  Nature.  Bj  Aurmsn  Rumkx. 
WAi.i.Aoa.  Wi  th  Ten  Ma^M  and  Fifty-one  Elegant  niaatrationa.  Crown 
8to,  Cloth,  $9  60. 

WHTMPER*S  ALASKA.  Travel  and  Adventure  in  the  Territory  of  Alaa- 
ka,  formerly  Roasian  America— now  Ceded  to  the  United  Statea— and  in 
▼arione  other  parte  of  the  North  Padflc.  By  FksDXSiOK  WnmrsB. 
With  Map  and  Illnstrationa.    Crown  Svo^  Cloth,  $S  00. 

ORTON^S  ANDES  AND  THE  AMAZON.  The  Andea  and  the  Amazon :  or, 
Acroes  the  Continent  of  Soath  America.  By  JAicaa  Obtov,  M.A.,  Pro- 
fesaor  of  Natural  Hietory  in  VaaMr  College,  Ponghkeepsie,  N.  Y.,  and 
Corresponding  Memher  of  the  Academy  of  Natural  Sciences,  Philadel- 
phia. With  a  New  Map  of  Equatorial  America  and  numerous  Dlustra- 
tiona.    Crown  8vo,  Cloth,  $S  9k 

WINCHELL*S  SKETCHES  OF  CREATION.  Sketches  of  Cieation:  a 
Popular  View  of  some  of  the  Grand  Conclusions  of  the  Scieoces  in  ref- 
erence to  the  History  of  Matter  and  of  Life.  Together  with  a  Statement 
of  the  Intimations  of  Sdenoe  respecting  the  Pnmoitlial  Condition  and 

'  the  Ultimate  Destiny  of  the  Earth  and  the  Solar  System.  By  Ai.szan- 
i>KB  WixouxLL,  LL.D.,  Chancellor  of  the  Syracuse  University.  With 
IllustrationsL    ISmo,  Cloth,  $S  Oa 

WHITER  MASSACRE  OF  ST.  BARTHOLOMEW.  The  Massacre  of  St 
Bartholomew :  Preceded  by  n  History  of  ihe  Relii;ious  Wars  in  the  Reign 
of  Charles  IZ.  By  HsMaT  Wuits,  M.A.  With  Illustrations.  8vo,  Cloth, 
$1  75. 

LOSSINO'S  FIELD-BOOK  OF  THE  REVOLUTION.  Pictorial  Field-Book 
of  the  Revolution ;  or,  Illustratloos,  by  Pen  and  Pencil,  of  tbe  History, 
Biography,  Scenery,  Reliefs  and  Traditions  of  the  War  for  Indepena- 
ence.  By  Bkmson  J.  Lossnio.  9  vols.,  Sro,  Cloth,  $14  00 ;  Sheep,  $15  00 ; 
Half  CalA  $1S  00;  Full  Tarkey  Morocco.  $»  00. 

LOSSING'S  FIELD-BOOK  OF  THE  WAR  OF  181i.  Pictorial TieldBook 
of  tbe  War  of  1818 ;  or,  Illust]:ations,  by  Pen  and  Pencil,  of  the  History, 
Biography,  Scenery,  Relics,  and  Traditions  of  the  Last  War  for  Ameri- 
can independence.  Bv  BxMSoif  J.  LossiKO.  Wiih  several  hundred  En- 
graving on  Wood,  by  Lossing  and  Barritt,  chiefly  from  Ori^unl  Sketch- 
es by  tbe  Author.  1068  pages,  8vo,  Cloth,  $7  00;  Sheep,  $S  00;  Half 
Coli;  $10  00. 

ALFORD'S  GREEK  TESTAMENT.  The  Greek  Testament;  with  a  crit- 
ically revised  Text;  a  Digest  of  Various  Readibgs;  Marginal  References 
to  Verbal  and  Idiomatic  Usage ;  Prolegomena :  and  a  Critical  and  Eze- 
getical  Commentary.  '  For  the  Use  of  Theological  Studenta  and  Minis- 
ters. By  HmtaT  Ai.romn,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Canterbury.  VoL  I.,  contain- 
ing the  Fonr  Gospels.    M4  pages,  8vo,  Cloth,  $8  00 ;  Sheep,  $8  fia 

ABBOTTS  FREDERICK  THE  GREAT.  The  History  of  Frederick  the 
Second,  called  Frederick  the  Great.  By  Joiw  S.  C.  Anaorr.  Elegantly 
Illnstrated.    8vo,  Clotb,  $S  00. 

ABBOTTS  HISTORY  OF  THE  FRENCH  RESOLUTION.  The  French 
Revolution  of  1T98,  aa  viewed  in  tbe  Light  of  Republican  Institutions. 
By  Jonn  S.  C.  Abbott.    With  ipo  Engravings.    8vo,  Cloth,  $S  00. 

ABBOTTS  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE.    The  History  of  Napoleon  Bona- 

8 arte.    By  Jom*  S.  C.  Abbott.    With  Maps,  Woodcnta,  and  Portraita  on 
teeL    9  vols.,  8vo,  Cloth,  $10  00. 

ABBOTTS  NAPOLEON  AT  ST. HELENA;  or. InterestingAnecdotes and 
Remarkable  Conversationa  of  the  Emperor  anring  the  Five  and  a  Half 
Years  of  his  Captivitv.  Collected  fhmi  the  Memorials  of  Las  Cases, 
O'Meara,  Montholon,  Antommarchi,  and  others.  By  Jonx  &  C.  Abbott. 
With  Illas^ationa.    8vo,  Cloth,  $6  6a 

ADDISON*S  COMPLETE  WORKa  Tbe  Worka  of  Joseph  Addison,  em- 
bracing  the  whole  of  the  "Spectator.**  Complete  in  S  vols.,  8vo,  Clotb, 
$8  00. 


4         Harper  ^  Brotkiri  ValuaiU  and  InUrtttmg  W^rJks. 

ALCOCK^S  JAPAN.  The  Capital  of  the  Ttcood  :  a  NarratiTe  of  a  Threo 
Yean'  Resldenee  in  Japan.  By  Sir  RuTnisroas  Auxxs,  K.O.B.,  Her 
MaJestT*a  BnToy  Bztraordinarr  and  Hinieter  Plenipotentiary  in  Japan. 
With  Mapa  and  EngraTinga.    i  Tola.,  ISmo,  Cloth,  IB  80. 


ALISOITS  HISTORY  OF  SUROPB.  Fnar  Simut :  Ftt>m  tbe  Commenoe- 
ment  of  tbe  French  ReTointion,  in  1789,  to  tbe  Restoration  of  tbe  Boa^^- 
bone,  in  1811k  [Jn  addition  to  tbe  Notes  on  Chapter  LXZVL,  which  cor- 
rect the  errora  of  the  original  work  concerning  tne  United  States,  a  copi- 
one  Anilytical  Index  has  been  appended  to  this  American  Sditiou.l 
SsoovB  Saans:  From  the  Fall  of  Napoleon,  in  1818,  to  the  Accession  of 
Louis  Napoleon,  in  18S2.    8  toIs.,  8to,  Cloto,  810  00. 

BARTH*S  NORTH  AND  CENTRAL  AFRICA.  Trarels  and  Discorerles  in 
Nortb  and  Central  Africa :  being  a  Jcmrnal  of  an  Bxpedition  undertaken 
nnder  tbe  Auspices  of  H.B.M.*s  GoTernment,  in  tbe  Tears  1840-1806.  By 
Hficmr  Bastu,  Ph.D.,  D.C.L.    Illustrated.    S  toIs.,  8to,  Cloth,  $18  00. 

HBNRY  WARD  BBBCHER*S  SERHONS.  Sermons  by  Hshbt  Waso 
BsBonra,  Plymouth  Cburcb.  Brooklrn.  Selected  from  Published  and 
Unpublished  Discourses,  and  RerlBea  by  their  Author.  With  Steel  Por- 
trait.   Complete  in  8  toIs.,  8to,  Cloth,  ffi  00. 

LTMAN  BEECHBR*S  AUTOBIOORAPHT,  Ac.  Autoblograpby,  Corres- 
pondence, Ac.,  of  Lyman  Beecber,  D.D.  Edited  by  his  Son,  Cuablkb 
Bisoun.  With  Three  Steel  Portraits,  and  Eugrarings  on  Wood.  In  8 
▼ols.,  ISmo,  Cloth,  $6  00.    . 

BOSWELL*S  JOHNSON.  Tbe  Life  of  Samuel  Johnson,  LL.D.  Including 
a  Journey  to  tbe  Hebrides.  By  Jamss  Boswmx.uE8q.  A  New  Edition, 
with  numerous  Additions  and  Notes.  By  Joum  wilsoit  Caoma,  LL.D., 
F.R.S.    Portrait  of  BoswelU    8  toIs.,  8to,  Cloth,  $4  00. 

DRAPER'S  CIVIL  WAR.  History  of  the  American  Ciril  War.  By  Joint 
W.  DBArcB,  M.D.,  LLD.,  Professor  of  Chemistry  and  Physiology  in  the 
University  of  New  York.    In  Three  Vols.    6to,  Cloth,  $S  00  per  toL 

DRAPER'S  INTELLECTUAL  DEVELOPMENT  OF  EUROPE.    A  Histo- 

Sof  the  Intellectual  Derelopment  of  Europe.    By  Joint  W.  Dbapxv, 
.D.,  LL.D.,  Professor  of  Chemistry  and  Physiology  in  tbe  University 
of  New  York.    8vo,  Cloth,  $S  00. 

DRAPER'S  AMERICAN  CIVIL  POLICY.  ThonghU  on  tbe  Future  Civil 
Policy,  of  America.  By  Joint  W.  Dkapib,  MTD.,  LL.D.,  Professor  of 
Chemistry  and  Physiology  in  the  University  of  New  York.  Crown  8va, 
Cloth,  $8  60. 

DU  CHAILLTTS  AFRICA.  Explorations  and  Adventures  in  Equatorial  Af- 
rica, with  Accounts  of  tbe  Manners  nnd  Customs  of  Uie  People,  and  of 
the  Chase  of  the  Gorilla,  tbe  Crocodile,  Leopard,  Elephant,  Hippopota- 
mus, and  other  Anlmala.  By  Pavl  B.  Du  Chazlld.  Numerous  lllas- 
tratlons.    Svo,  Cloth,  |6  00. 

DU  CHAILLTTS  ASHANGO  LAND.  A  Journey  to  Asbango  Land :  and 
Further  Penetration  into  Bqnatorial  Africa.  By  Paxti.  B.  Du  Cuaii.lv. 
New  Edition.    Handsomely  illustrated.    8vo,  Cloth,  |6  00. 

BELLOWS'S  OLD  WORLD.  Tbe  Old  World  In  its  New  Face :  Impressions 
of  Europe  in  1887-1808.  By  Haxar  W.  Bxllomts.  8  vols.,  12mo,  Cloth, 
$3  00. 

BRODHEAD*S  HISTORY  OF  NEW  YORE.  History  of  tbe  State  of  New 
York.  By  Jomr  Roitcrir  Bbodubad.  1009-1G9L  8  toIs.  8vo,  Cloth, 
$3  00  per  vol. 

BROUGHAM'S  AUTOBIOGRAPIIY.  Life  and  Times  of  nsvar.  Loan 
BmouoBAic.  Written  by  Hi mseIC  In  Three  Volumes.  ISmo,  Cloth, 
$2  00  per  Tol. 

BULWER*S  PROSE  WORKS.  Miscellaneous  Prose  Works  of  Edward  Bul- 
wer.  Lord  Lytton.    8  toIs.,  12mo,  Cloth,  $3  60. 


Harpir  6*  Brother^  ValuabU  and  InUrtsHng  Works.    ^    5 

BULW£B'S  HORACE.    The  Odes  and  Epodes  of  Horace.    ▲  Ifetiieal 
Translation  into  Bnglisb.    With  Introdaction  and  Commentariea.'  Bj 
LoBD  Ltttom.    With  Latin  Text  from  the  Xdltiona  of  OreUi,  Hadeane, 
*  and  Tunge.    ISmo,  Cloth,  $1  75. 

BTJLWSR*S  KINO  AKTHUH,  A  Poem.  By  Loan  Lrrrox.  New  Sdltlon. 
ISmo,  Clothrtl  TO. 

BURNS'S  LIFB  AND  WORKa  The  Life  and  Works  of  Robert  Bnma. 
Edited  by  RoaasT  CuAMBisa.    4  vols.,  ISmo,  Cloth,  $6  00. 

REINDEER,  DOQS,  AND  SNOW-SHOES.    A  Jonnial  of  Siberian  IVavel. 
and  Ezpiorations  made  in  the  Years  1868-*e7.  -Br  RianxaD  J.  Buss,  late 
of  the  Kusso-American  Telegraph  Expedition.   Illastrated.    Crown  8to, 
Cloth^  $3  00. 

CARLYLE*S  FREDERICK  THE  GREAT.  History  of  Friedrich  IL,  called 
Frederick  the  GreaL  By  TnoMAa  CxaLYUL  Portraits,  Haps,  Plana, 
'^ba    0  vols.,  19mo,  Cloth,  $12  00. 

CARLYLE*S  FRENCH  REVOLUTION.  History  of  the  French  IteTolution. 
2  vols.,  12mo,  Cloth,  $3  60. 

CARLTLE*S  OLIVER  CROMWELL.  Letters  and  Speecbes  nf  OliTer 
CromwelL  With  Elnddations  and  Connecting  Narrative.  2  voli*.,  12mo^ 
Cloth,  $3  00. 

CHALMERS'S  POSTHUMOUS  WORK&  Tbe  Posthnmoos  Works  of  Dr. 
Chalmersi  Edited  by  his  Son-in-Law,  Rer.  Wilxiam  Uamma,  LL.D. 
Complete  in  9  vols.,  iSmo,  Cloth,  flS  SO. 

COLERIDGE'S  COMPLETE  WORKS.  The  Complete  Works  of  Samnel 
Taylor  Coleridge.  With  an  Introdnetory  Essay  upon  his  Philosophical 
and  Theological  Opinions.  Edited  by  Professor  Susnn.  Complete  in 
Seven  Vols.    With  a  Portrait    Small  8vo,  Cloth,  $10  00. 

DOOLnTLE*S  CHINA.  Social  Life  of  the  Chinese :  with  some  Acconnt  of 
their  Religions,  Governmental,  Edncational,  aad  Bnsiness  Cnstoms  and 
Opiniona.  With  special  bnt  not  exdnaive  Reference  to  Fnhchan.  By 
Kev.  Jusnm  Doouttui,  Fourteen  Years  Member  of  the  Fnhchan  Mis- 
sion of  the  American  Board,  ninstrated  with  more  that  100  character- 
istic Engravings  on  Wood.  .  2  vols.,  limot  Cloth,  $6  00. 

GIBBON'S  ROME.  History  of  the  Decline  aad  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire. 
By  EDWAan  GranoM.  with  Notes  by  Rev.  H.  H.  Milmam  and  M.  Genor. 
A  new  cheap  Edition.  To  which  ia  added  a  complete  Index  of  the  whole 
Work,  and  a  Portrait  of  the  Author. .  -t  vola.,  12mo,  Cloth,  $»  oa 

HAZEN*S  SCHOOL  AND  ARMY  IN  GERMANY  AND  FRANCE.  The 
School  and  the  Army  in  Germany  and  France,  with  a  Disry  of  Siege 
Life  at  Versaillea.  By  Brevet  Mioor-General  W.  B.  HAxay,  U.S;.A.,  Col- 
onel Sixth  Infentry.    Crown  Svo^  CloUi,  $2  00. 

HARPER'S  NEW  CLASSICAL  LIBRARY.    Literal  Translatiooa. 

The  following  Vols,  are  now  ready.    12mo,  Cloth,  $1 00  each. , 

CosAB.  — Vnten.~SALiuvr.— HoBAoa.~CioaBO*s  Oeatiors.— Cxosao'e 
OrrzoBs,  Ac— Oiosao  ov  Obatost  ajid  Oslatobs.*— Taoitus  (%  vols.).  * 
— TaaaifOB.— ^raoouH.— JDrawAU— XxHOFBOJC—Hona's  Iuas^ — 
Hojf  aa's  Onrssar. — HsBbi>oTna.  —  DaMoennovaa.  —  TBuomnHn.  ~ 
.AacnTLna.— Euazpmna  (2  vols.).— Ltvr  (2  vols.). 

DAVIS'S  CARTHAGE.  Carthage  and  her  Remains:  being  an  Aeeoont  of 
the  Excavations  and  Researcbes  on  tbe  Site  of  the  Phanieian  Metropo- 
lis in  Africa  and  other  adjacent  Pisces.  Conducted  under  the  Auraicee 
of  Her  Majesty's  Government  .  Bv  Dr.  DAvm,  F.R.Gw8.  Profhsely  iIlBa- 
trated  with  Maps,  Woodcuts,  Cbromo-Lithographa,  Ac  8vo^  Ck>Ui, 
$4  00. 

EDGSWORTH'S  (Misa)  NOVEL&  With  Engravings.  10  toIsl,  12mO| 
Cloth,  $10  00.  m  ^ 

GROTE'S  HISTORY  OF  GREECE.    12  vols.,  Vbac^  Cloth,  $18  00. 


6         Har^ir  &*  Brothiri  ValuabU  and  Interestitig  fVbrks. 

!  ■  P 

HBLPS'S  SPANISH  CONQUEST.  The  SjMinish  Conqnest  In  America,  and 
iU  Relation  to  the  EUatorr  of  Slarerr  and  to  the  GoTemment  of  Colonies. 
By  AxTBom  Hklp*.    4  Tola.,  12mo,  Clotb,  $0  00. 

HALE*S  CMaa.)  WOMAN'S  RBCORD.  Woman'a  Record ;  ur,  Biographical 
Sketcnes  of  all  Ditftinffniabed  Women,  firom  the  Creation  to  the  Present 
Time.  Arranged  in  Fonr  Bras,  with  Selections  frohi  Female  Writers  of 
Bach  Bra.  By  Mrs.  SAm^o  Joskfua  Ualb.  Illustrated  with  more  than 
800  Portraita.    Sto^  Cloth,  |6  00. 

HALL*S  ARCTIC  RBSBARCHBS.  Arctic  Researches  and  Life  among  the 
Baqaimanx :  being  the  Narrative  of  an  Bzpeditiou  in  6earch  of  Sir  John 
Franklin,  in  the  Tears  1860, 1861,  and  1869.  By  CuAmuca  FaAwois  Halu 
With  Maps  and  100  Illnstrationa.  The  Illastratlpns  are  from  the  Origi- 
sal  Drawinga  by  Charles  Parsons,  Henry  L.  Stephens,  Solomon  ByUiige, 
W.  S.  L.  Jewett,  and  OranTille  Perklua,  after  Sketches  by  Captain  Hall. 
Sro,  Cloth,  16  00. 

HALLAM'S  CONSTITUTIONAL  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND,  from  the  Ac- 
cession of  Henry  VII.  to  the  Death  of  George  II.    6vo,  Clotn,  ^  00. 

HALLAM*S  LITERATURE.  Introdnction  to  the  Literature  of  Enrope  dar- 
ing the  Fifteenth,  Sixteenth,  and  Sereuteeuth  Centnries.  By  Hbmby 
HAJ.I.AJI.    9  Tola.,  8vo,  Cloth,  |4  00. 

HALLAM*S  middle  ages.  SUte  of  Enrope  daring  the  Middle  Ages. 
By  HurmT  Hallam.    8to,  Cloth,  $8  00. 

HILDRETH*S  BISTORT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES.  Fnar  Scaixs: 
From  the  First  Settlementof  the  Conn  try  to  the  Adoptioxl  of  the  Federal 
Constitntiou.  Ssoond  Sbbiks  :  From  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Con- 
atitntion  to  the  End  of  the  Sixteenth  Congress.    6  vols.,  8vo,  Cloth, 

$18  00.  .      .  •     . 

BUME*S  HISTORT  OF  ENGLAND.  History  of  England,  ft-om  the  Inrn- 
sion  of  Jalina  C^sar.  to  ,the  Abdication  of  James  IL,  1688.  By  Datii> 
HvMX.  A  new  Edition,  with  the  Author's  last  Corrections  and  iroprove- 
menta.  To  which  is  Prefixed  a  short  Account  of  his  Life,  written  by 
nimselC    With  a  Portrait  of  the  Author.    6  Tola.,  12mo,  Cloth,  $9  00. 

JAT'S  WORKS.  Complete  Works  of  Rev.  William  Jay:  comprising  hia 
Sermons,  Family  Discourses,  Morning  and  Evening  Exercises  for  every 
Day  in  the  Tear,  Family  Prayers,  Jtc  Author's  enlarged  Edition,  re- 
vised.   8  vols.,  8vo,  Cloth,  $6  00. 

JEFFERSON'S  DOMESTIC  LIFE.  The  Domestic  Life  of  Thomas  JeflTer- 
son:  compiled  from  Family  Letters  and  Reminiscences,  by  his  Great- 
Granddaughter,  Sabau  N.  RANnoi.ni.  With  Illustratlona.  Crown  Svo, 
lUuminat^  Cloth,  Beveled  Edges,  $2  60.    . 

JOHNSON'S  COMPLETE  WORKS.    The  Works  of  Sam  nel  Johnson,  LL.  D. 
With  an  Essay  on  his  Life  and  Genius,  by  AarnDB  Mcbput,  Eaq.    For- 
X  trait  of  Johnson.    2  vols.,  8vo,  Cloth,  %/k  00. 

KINGLAKE*S  CRIMEAN  WAR.  The  Invasion  of  the  Crimea,  and  an  Ac- 
count of  ita  Progresa  down  to  the  Death  of  Lord  Raglan.  By  Aijkxan- 
DBB  WrLLLAir'  KxKOLAKB.  With  Map8  and  Plans.  Two  Vols,  readv. 
12mOk  Cloth,  $3  00  per  voL  ' 

KINGSLET'S  WEST  INDIEa  At  Last:  A  Christmas  in  the  West  Indies. 
By  CuABLxa  Kucoslbt.    Illustrated.    19mo,  Cloth,  $1  60. 

KRUMMACHER'S  DAVID,  KING  OF  ISRAEL.  David,  the  King  of  Isra- 
el :  a  Portrait  drawn  ft-om  Bible  Hiatory  and  the  Book  of  Psalma.  By 
Frbdbbxox  WrLLXAM  KxvMMAOBBB,  D.D.,  Author  of  ** Elijah  the  TLvh- 
bite,"  Ac  Translated  nnder  the  express  Sanction  of  the  Author  by  the 
Rev.  M.  G.  EASTO.V,  M.  A.  With  a  letter  from  Dr.  Kmmmacher  to  his 
American  Readers,  and  a  Portrait.    12mo,  Cloth,  %i  76. 

LAMB'S  COMPLETE  WORK&  The  Works  of  Charlea  Lamb.  Compris- 
ing his  Letters,  Poems,  Essays  of  Blia,  Essays  upon  Shak^peare.  Ho- 
mth,  Ac,  and  a  Sketch  of  hia  Life,  with  the  Final  Memorials,  by  T.  Noon 
TALrouBP.    Portrait    9  vols.,  18mo,  Cloth,  $3  00. 


Harper  h*  Brothers*  Valuable  and  Interesting  Works.         7 

LIVINOSTONB*S  SOUTH  AFRICA.  Miadonary  TraTels  and  BaMtrcbes. 
in  Soath  Africa ;  iuclndlng  k  Sketch  of  Siztaea  Taara*  Raaidanoa  In  the 
lotarior  or  Africa,  and  a  Journey  from  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  to  Loan- 
do  on  the  Weat  Coaat ;  thence  acroaa  the  Continent,  down  the  KiTer 
Zambeal,  to  the  Baatem  Ocean.  Bt  Datid  LiruioaTaira,  LL.D.,  D.C.L. 
With  Portrait,  Mapa  by  Arrowamith,  and  unmerona  lUuatrationa.  8to, 
Cloth,  14  80. 

LIVINQSTONBS*  ZAMBESI    Narrative  of  an  Bxpeditlon  to  the  Zambeai 
and  ita  Tribntarlea.  aud  of  the  Diacorery  of  the  Lakea  Shlrwa  and  Ny- 

By  DATA  and  CnAmuca  LiTucoaTo^iB.    With  Map  au^ 


1868-1864.    By  DATA  and  CBAEUca  LiTiNoaTOJiB.    With  Map  and 
lUuatrationa.  ■  8to,  Cloth,  $5  00. 

M'CLINTOCK  A  STRONG'S  CTCLOPiBDIA.  Cyclopedia  of  Biblical, 
Theological,  and  Bcdealaatical  Licerature.  '  PrepanMi  by  the  Rev.  Jobm 
M*Cx.uiTOox,  D.D.,  and  Jamm  Srmoite,  S.T.D.  0  voU.  now  r§adjf.  Royal 
8T0,  Price  piar  voL-,  Cloth,  |5  00;  Sheep,  $6  00;  Half  Morocco,  $8  00. 

MARCT'S  ARMY  LTFB  ON  THE  BORDER.  Thirty  Yeara  of  Army  Life 
on  the  Border.  Comprising  de«criptiona  of  the  Indian  NOmacia  of  the 
Plalna ;  Szploratlona  ofNew  Territory :  a  Trip  acroaa  the  Rocky  Mount- 
aina  in  the  Winter;  Deacriptiona  of  the  Hablta  of  DlflTerent  Animala 
found  in  the  We«t,  and  the  Methoda  of  Hunting  them ;  with  Incidenta 
in  the  Life  of  DlflTerent  Frontier  Men,  Ac ,  Stc  By  Brevet  Brigadier- 
General  R.  B.  MARor,*U.S.A.,  Author  of  "The  Prairie  Traveller.**^  Wlih 
nnmeroua  Illusiratioua.    8vo,  Cloth,  Beveled  Bdgea,  $3  00. 

MACAULAY*3  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND.  The  HIatory  of  England  from 
the  Accesaion  of  Jaraea  IL  By  TnoMAa  Bahikuton  Maoavlav.  With 
an  Original  Portrait  of  the  Author.    5  vola.,  Svo,  Cloth,  $10  00;  12mou 

Cloth,  $7  00. 

MOSHEIM'S  ECCLESIASTICAL  HISTORY,  Ancient  and  Modem:  in 
which  the  Riae,  Progreaa,  and  Variation  of  Chnrcb  Power  are  conaldered 
in  their  Connection  with  the  State  of  Learning  and  PhUoaophy,  and  the 
Politica^iatory  of  Europe  during  that  Period;  Tranalated,  with  Notea, 
Ac,  by  A.  Maolaimb,  D.D.  A  new  Edition,  eontinned  to  1880,  by  C 
CooTB,  LL.D.    S  vola.,  8vo,  Cloth,  $4  00. 

THE  DESERT  OF  THE  EXODUS.  Jonmeya  on  Foot  in  the  Wildemeaa 
of  the  Forty  Yeara*  Wanderinga :  undertaken  in  connection  with  the 
Ordnance  Survey  of  Sinai  and  the  Paleatine  Enloration  Fund.  By  E. 
H.  pALMia,  M.A.,  Lord  AImoner*a  Profesaor  or  Arabic,  and  Fellow  of 
St  John'a  College,' Cambridge.  With  Mapa  and  nnmeroua  Illnstrationa 
from  Photograpna  and  Drawlnga  taken  on  the  apot  by  the  Sinai  Survey 
Expedition  and  a  F.  TyrwhiUDrake.    Crown  &ro.  Cloth,  $S  oa 

OUPHANT^S  china  and  japan.  Narrative  of  the  Earl  of  E1gln*a  Mla- 
aion  to  China  and  Japan,  in  the  Yeara  1857,  *SS,  19.  By  LAuaanoa  Oli- 
FnAWT,  Private  Secretary  to  Lord  Elgin.  lUuatrationa.  8vo,  Cloth,  $3  60. 

OUPHANTS  (Maai)  LIFE  OF  EDWARD  IRVING.  The  Uth  of  Edward 
Irving,  Miniater  of  the  National  Scotch  Church,  London.  Illustrated  by 
hia  Joumala  and  Correapondence.  By  Mra.  OLirovnT.  Portrait  8vo. 
Cloth,  $8  oa  ^ 

RAWLINSON'S  MANUAL  OF  ANCIENT  HISTORY.  A  Manual  of  An- 
cient HIatory,  from  the  Earlleat  Timea  to  the  Fall  of  the  Woatem  Empire. 
Comprising  the  HIatory  of  Chaldca,  Aaayrio.  Media.  Babylonia,  Lydla, 
PhoBulcla,  Syria,  Judsa,  Egypt,  Carthage,  Pertia,  Greece,  Macedonia, 
Parthia,  and  Rome.  By  Gitoaoa  RAWLixaoit.  M. A.,  Camden  Profeaaor 
of  Anclant  Hiatory  in  the  Uniyeraity  of  Oxford.    ISmo^  Cloth,  fS  CM. 

RECLUS*S  THE  EARTH.  The  Earth :  A  Descriptive  HIatory  of  the  Phe- 
nomena and  Life  of  the  Globe.  Bv  £i.iaia  RaoLoa.  Translated  by  the 
late  B.  B.  Woodward,  and  Edited  oy  Henry  Woodward.  With  884  jf ape 
and  Illustratlona  and  88  Page  Mapa  printed  in  Colore.    8to,  Cloth,  $S  00. 

RECLUSES  OCEAN.  The  Ocean.  Atmosphere,  and  Life.  Being  the  Second 
Seriea  of  a  Deacrlptlve  Hiatory  of  the  Life  of  the  Globe.  By  elisia  Rk- 
oi.ua.  Profhsely  lUnstrated  with  890  Mapa  or  Figures,  and  87  Mapa 
printed  in  Colora.    Svo,  Cloth,  80  oa 


3         tiarptr  &'  Bratitri'^Valuailt  and  iHttnsHng  Wtrki. 


RflTlwd  b7  Iiiio  Bm).    SugiKTlDgt.    «  tqU,  Bot*1  llou,  Clolh,  10  «>. 
ST0li.,8fo,CIotb,t4  0D. 

BWLSS-S  U7B  OF  THK  STSPHKN80N&  Ttie  Ur«  or  0«Drn  Stephen- 
■OD,  andorhla  Sod,  Bobcrt  Buiibanua :  eompiiiliig,  ■!»,  sHIstorrnr 
tbalnymlODand  IntrodiietloD  of  iha  RtllwRj'  Loeomallia.  BtSiiidel 
Shuo,  Anltaor  or  "S«1tH«lp,"  Ac  With  Btsal  Furualuuid  umncroot 
lUuMtlODi.    Sio,  Cloth,  It  00. 

BHILXe'S  mSTOBY  OF  THE  HCODEKOTB.  Tha  HnnunnU:  ItaelrStl- 
Ileoiuiu,  Chore bH,  ud  IndDiIrlailaBnslud  indlnlud.  UfSuitiL 
BuiLK.  Wllh  ID  ApMudlz  nUtlBg  to  ttia  Hniqaoota  lu  Amcclra. 
Crown  Sto,  Cloth,  tl  TS. 

SPKEB'S  AFRICA.  Jonniil  or  tha  DUeoTary  of  Iba  Sunna  of  Iba  Kile 
Br  Caplala  Joni  Bukiho  Spmei,  Captain  H.M.  lodliit  Anni,  Fclliin 
KDd  Sold  KsdiliJt  of  the  BciTil  0«wTBphlcal  BoclatT,  Han-  CDcmiioiid- 
Injt  llamb«r  lod  Oold  Uadallil  of  iCa  Frcncb  OraRanhiciI  Socletj,  Ac 
With  Ifapa  and  PoitrilU  Hud  oaincniBi  lllailritlon»,  ctaleBi  from  Dnw. 
ion  bj  Cupula  Ouit.  Sto,  Cloth,  DDlfurm  with  LldunloDe,  Birih, 
Bdrlo^,  Ac,  M  00. 

STRICKLAND'S  (Him)  4USENS  OF  BCOTLAND.  LItm  oflha  (tneauof 
Sci'tlud  and  Esgllih  Frlactuti  eODDacie&wlth  tha  Itegnl  Soecoilou 
,  ofOrutBrltaln.    Ff  Aeiia  SnioKtAHD.    StdI*.,  ISmo,  Cloth,  «1t  Da 

THE  STUDENT'S  SKlilES. 

Fmnu.    EnjrrtTlnEB.    Itmn.  C'tcth,  St  no. 

Gibbon.    KognrlaEf.    Iliiiu,  Clnib,  ti  00. 

Qruca.    Ed^tIii^    Wmo,  Cloib,  (t  OOv 

Hams.    Sngrafion*.    lima.  Cloth,  |1  00. 

Bama,    BTUddafl    BngnrlDgi.    liiDo,  Clolh,  (S  OO. 

Old  Tntanant  HlitO)?.    Baj-miligi.    llmu,  clulb,  D  00. 

N«w  TeWnBiaol  Hlalorr.    EopiTingi.  llnio,  Clglb.  •>  00. 

Stilcktiod's  QoMiia  of  BdeIidB.    AhrldECd.   Eds'*.    Itmn,  Cloth,  |S  00. 

ADClenlHltlorroftbaBnit.  Itmo,  Cloth,  IS  00. 

IH]lim'»  Mlddfa  Agw.    limo,  Cloth,  SI  00. 

Ulllsm'i  Camtllaironiit  Hlttory  <-\  Kni-land.    l!mo.  Cloth,  (t  Oa 

LTelriElemeowofGcol.iET.     I^nm.  Cloib.  U  00. 

TENNYSON'S  COMPI.ETE  P0KM9,  The  Completa  Po«m«  ofAIfrtd  Ten- 
nnon,  Foat  Laarula.  With  numaront  lIlnalrnlioDi  bf  Emtnant  Artlali, 
andThr««ChBr»crerl«licPor[rniU.    Sto,  Paper,  TO  ceuU:  CloU,  «  se. 

THOMSON'S  LAND  AND  THH  BOOK.  ThsLand  iind  tha  Book;  or,  Bib- 
lical niaatntloiu  drawn  from  Iba  Alnniien  and  Ca>IO[n^  Iha  Sceoea 
aod  the  ScaoerT  of  Ibe  Holy  Laud.  Bt  W.  M.  TaOMaoH,  D.D.,  TiranlT- 
.llTe  Yean  Kllaalonarr  of  Ibe  A.B.C.F.IL  In  Syria  and  PalcatlTO.    Wllb 

aeraral  hundred  Knrrairlnn.  rapreaentlag  Iha  Scanenr,  Topograph*,  and 
ProdDctlona  of  the  HoI>  I^nd.  and  the  Coemmet,  Uaunara,  and  Habiu 
of  thePaople.  ■  larie  lima  Toli.,.CIoib,  *S  00. 
TTBBIUN'S  WESLEY.  The  Life  and  Tlmei  nf  tha  BeT.  John  Weeler, 
U.A.,  Panadei  o(  Iha  Uatbodlita.  B)  tba  Be*.  LoKa  Tifuiaii.  For- 
IralM.  I  ToK.,  Crown  Sto,  Cloth,  IT  M. 
TnERHAN-S OXFORD  HRTHODISTB.  TtaeOifordUetbodlala:  H«inoln 
'  'la  BaT.Henn.OlaTtOQ,  Ingham,  Qninb'iTd.  HarraT,  and  BrunBhloni 
«. ,.1.-1  H.,.1 /  „,h,t^    Bj  the  He?.  L.  Tiaaiiii..    Willi 

aa 

.OTiVt'of"*  Joorniy"(rom"TeherI  '"'    "    ''"  " 
Eaalem  Shore  of  the  Cn^plnn,  to 

tomisd  In  the  Year  1863.  By  Aumiii  'ahbht,  nemuar  oi  me  unn- 
prarian  Acadamr  of  Paolb,  ^7  whom  ha  w»  Hnl  on  Ibla  Sclandflc  Mla- 
alon.  Wllh  Map  and  Woodcntik  .  Sio,  Cloth,  H  OO. 
WOOD'S  H0MK3  WITHOUT  HANDa  Homea  Wllhnnt  Handa:  belies:  ■> 
Deacrlpilon  of  tbe  BabltAtloni  nf  Animala,  clnaacd  acc-irdlni:  to  thcli 
Principle  of  Conalmcllnn.  Br  J.  Q.  Woni^  M.A.,  F.I.3.  Wllh  aUml 
IW  liluatrnlloDi.    Bro,  Cloth,  beveled  Bdscf,  »4  M. 


This  book  is  a  preservation  photocopy. 

It  is  made  in  compliance  with  copyright  law 

and  produced  on  acid-free  archival 

60#  book  weight  paper 

^^ch  meets  the  requirements  of 

^JSI/NISO  Z39.48-1992  (permanence  of  pap< 

Preservation  photocopying  and  binding 

by 

Acme  Bookbindii^ 

Charlestown,  Massachusetts 

a 

2000 


The  boiTower  must  return  this  item  on  or  before 
the  last  date  stamped  below.  If  another  user 
places  a  recall  for  this  item,  the  borrower  will 
be  notified  of  the  need  for  an  earlier  return. 

Non-receipt  of  overdue  notices  does  not  exempt 
the  borrower  from  overdue  fines. 


Harvard  College  Widener  Library 
Cambridge,  MA  02138         617-495-2413 


Please  handle  v 
Thank  you  for  helping  to  prtserfe 
library  collecti(Mis  at  Harvard. 


