Economical  Receipts 


£51 

k 

"V, 

Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/missparloasyoung00parl_1 


MISS  PARLOA'S 

Young  Housekeeper 

i 

Uestgneli  lEgperiallg  to  aft  Bejgmners 

Economical  Receipts  for  those  who  are  Cooking 
for  Two  or  Three 

by 

MARIA  PARLOA 

FOUNDER   OF   TWO   SCHOOLS   OF   COOKERY   AND   AUTHOR   OF    "  THE 
APPLEDORE   COOK  BOOK,"    "  MISS    PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COM- 
PANION,"  "MISS   PARLOA'S   NEW   COOK   BOOK  AND 
MARKETING  GUIDE,"  "FIRST  PRINCIPLES  OF 
HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT,"  ETC. 


ILLUSTRATED 


BOSTON 
DANA  ESTES  AND  CO. 


TX7I5 
.97.1 


Copyright,  1893, 
By  Maria  Parloa. 

7^  c^J  /fSL 


PREFACE. 


HEREVER  I  have  gone  in  the  last  fifteen  years 


in  following  my  calling  as  a  teacher  of  cooking, 
earnest  appeals  have  been  made  to  me  to  plan  my 
next  book  for  the  especial  benefit  of  those  who  have 
just  begun,  or  who  are  about  to  begin,  to  keep  house 
for  two  or  three.  The  young  wives  want  to  know  how 
to  buy  supplies  for  a  small  family ;  how  to  cook  eco- 
nomically and  well ;  what  to  do  with  food  that  is  left 
over  from  any  meal;  and  numerous  other  things  per- 
taining to  their  daily  work.  At  last  I  have  set  about 
telling  them.  They  will  find  that  it  is  not  necessary 
to  have  an  immense  income  in  order  to  live  well. 
Strict  adherence  to  careful  instructions  will,  with  a 
little  good  sense  thrown  in,  enable  a  young  house- 
keeper to  accomplish  wonders.  She  can  practise 
economy  and  at  the  same  time  have  a  table  that  is 
attractively  and  wholesomely  spread,  —  something  for 
which  most  housekeepers  strive  without  knowing  the 
best  way  to  reach  the  goal.    Of  course,  not  all  who 


iv 


PREFACE. 


begin  to  build  a  home  are  obliged  to  count  every 
dollar  they  expend.  For  the  benefit  of  those  who 
can  start  in  their  married  life  with  a  servant  to  aid 
them  and  money  enough  to  indulge  in  luxuries,  some 
special  information  and  advice  are  given.  But,  after 
all,  the  aim  has  been  particularly  to  lend  a  hand  to 
those  whose  incomes  are  moderate;  to  make  the 
book  a  simple  one,  —  one  that  even  a  girl  may  take 
interest  in  studying.  If  it  prove  of  value  to  those 
young  women  who  are  establishing  homes  for  them- 
selves, its  chief  mission  will  be  accomplished. 


Roxburv,  Mass.,  1893. 


M.  P. 


CONTENTS. 


Pagb 

A  Word  with  the  Young  Housewife   i 

About  Furnishing  the  House   4 

Division  of  the  Household  Work   22 

Some  Things  to  be  Learned  Early   31 

Work  on  Washing  Day   44 

In  the  Dining-Room   52 

Buying  Food  and  Caring  for  It   60 

Soups   80 

Fish   96 

How  to  Cook  Meat.   .   .   *   112 

Sauces  for  Meat  and  Fish   164 

Salads   172 

Vegetables   177 

Miscellaneous  Dishes   200 

Bread  in  Various  Forms  ,   217 

Cake  ,   241 

Pastry                                                 *    ....  253 

Puddings     260 

Sweets  ,   289 

Beverages   300 

Preserves  and  Pickles   307 


vi  CONTENTS. 

Page 

For  Those  who  Live  on  Farms  324 

Care  of  the  Sick  338 

When  Cleaning  House  352 

Odd  Bits  of  Useful  Knowledge  361 


Index  391 


MISS  PARLOA'S 


YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


CHAPTER  I. 

A  WORD  WITH  THE  YOUNG  HOUSEWIFE. 

IF  one  were  to  get  a  hundred  reputed  good  housekeepers 
to  come  together  and  give  their  ideas  of  what  consti- 
tutes good  housekeeping,  no  two  would  agree  upon  all 
points.  There  are  essentials  which  every  one  recognizes, 
but  there  are  many  things  which  one  housekeeper  considers 
of  the  greatest  importance,  whereas  another  may  think  the 
same  things  of  minor  consequence  or  of  no  consequence 
whatever.  It  is  a  sad  feet  that  some  good  housekeepers 
are  not  good  home-makers.  The  young  housekeeper  should 
bear  in  mind  that,  while  it  is  essential  that  the  home  should 
be  clean  and  orderly,  and  the  food  well  cooked  and  regu- 
larly served,  this  does  not  make  the  home.  One  can  get 
all  these  comforts  in  a  well  conducted  hotel  or  boarding- 
house,  but  the  man  or  woman  is  to  be  pitied  who  has  no 
higher  ideal  of  a  home  than  what  is  furnished  by  a  hotel 
or  boarding-house,  no  matter  how  sumptuous.  A  selfish 
woman  can  make  a  good  housekeeper,  so  far  as  the  keep- 
ing of  the  house  in  perfect  running  order  is  concerned,  but 
it  is  difficult  for  a  selfish  or  lazy  woman  to  make  a  home. 
A  young  woman  who  would  create  an  ideal  home  must  pos- 
sess some  judgment,  and  a  heart  in  which  charity  and  sym- 
pathy have  a  large  place. 

i 


2  MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


My  idea  of  good  housekeeping  is  where  a  woman  keeps 
her  home  sweet  and  orderly ;  provides  simple,  well  cooked 
food ;  makes  her  home  so  restful  and  cheerful  that  all  who 
come  into  it  shall  be  better  for  breathing  the  atmosphere 
of  kindness  and  cheerfulness  that  pervades  the  place  ;  and 
where  the  household  machinery  always  runs  smoothly  because 
of  the  constant  thoughtfulness  of  the  mistress  of  the  house. 
A  place  like  this  is  truly  a  home,  and  the  woman  at  the  head 
of  it  deserves  the  respect  and  admiration  of  everybody.  I 
have  seen  such  homes  among  the  rich  and  among  the  poor, 
for  neither  wealth  nor  poverty  prevents  the  right  person 
from  filling  with  the  atmosphere  of  comfort  and  hapniness 
the  house  of  which  she  is  the  mistress. 

A  housekeeper's  duties  are  many,  and,  to  one  nervous 
and  fretful,  they  are  exhausting.  What  seems  to  the  woman 
of  good  digestion  and  steady  nerves  a  mere  trifle,  to  be 
laughed  at  and  forgotten,  may  appear  to  the  delicate,  ner- 
vous woman  a  calamity  to  be  wept  over.  Much  of  the  irri- 
tability from  which  women  suffer  is  due  to  their  expectation 
of  too  much  of  themselves  and  others.  If  women  would  be 
reconciled  to  the  inevitable,  they  might  make  everybody 
about  them  much  happier.  A  choice  bit  of  china  may  be 
broken.  Is  it  worth  the  while  to  make  the  whole  household 
miserable  for  what  cannot  be  helped?  A  dish  may  be 
spoiled  in  the  cooking.  It  will  not  help  your  digestion  or 
that  of  the  family  to  fret  over  it.  You  may  be  naturally  very 
orderly,  but  some  members  of  the  family  may  not.  Wil1  it 
pay  to  make  them  and  yourself  uncomfortable  by  worrying 
over  the  matter?  If  your  servant  or  any  other  member  of 
the  household  should  not  come  up  to  your  standard,  throw 
the  mantle  of  charity  over  the  faults  that  you  cannot  remedy, 
and  pray  that  others  may  be  equally  charitable  to  you. 

The  good  housekeeper  will  certainly  look  well  to  the  ways 
of  her  household,  but  her  eyes  will  be  those  of  the  kind,  just 
woman.  She  will  not  look  for  miracles  ;  she  will  not  expect 
to  get  the  best  supplies  and  service  when  paying  only  the 


A  WORD  WITH  THE  YOUNG  HOUSEWIFE.  3 

lowest  price ;  she  will  not  hope  to  make  something  out  of 
nothing ;  she  will  be  brave  enough  to  live  within  her  means, 
even  if  they  be  small ;  she  will  not  be  afraid  to  do  her  work 
honestly  and  well ;  and,  finally,  she  will  be  so  true  to  herself 
at  all  times,  and  so  adjust  and  simplify  her  domestic  duties 
that  she  will  not  exhaust  body  and  mind  in  trying  to  do  two 
persons'  work  for  the  sake  of  "  keeping  up  appearances." 
How  many  families  lose  all  the  comforts  of  home  life  in  this 
senseless  effort !  If  you  stop  to  consider  what  this  "  keep- 
ing up  appearances"  means  it  puts  the  people  in  a  very 
unenviable  light,  for  it  simply  means  that  people  want  to 
give  you  a  false  impression  of  their  possessions.  No  mem- 
ber of  the  family  is  so  much  injured  by  this  deceptive  life  as 
the  housekeeper.  All  her  power  of  body  and  mind  is  bent 
to  the  task  of  making  the  best  possible  appearance  with  the 
smallest  amount  of  expenditure.  Intellect  is  cramped  in 
the  battle  and  all  repose  is  gone  from  home  life.  No  mat- 
ter how  good  the  housekeeping,  the  spirit  of  the  home- 
maker  is  not  there.  No  young  woman  has  a  right  to  dwarf 
her  life  for  such  a  purpose.  Let  her  make  the  most  of  the 
means  at  her  command,  but  let  her  never  sacrifice  her  phy- 
sical, moral,  and  mental  well-being  to  a  desire  to  make  a 
display  disproportionate  to  her  circumstances,  for  that  is 
not  good  housekeeping. 


CHAPTER  II. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 

IN  these  days  of  lavish  ornamentation  and  bric-a-brac,  the 
young  housekeeper  must  be  on  guard  against  filling  her 
house  with  such  furnishings  as  would  make  it  stuffy  and 
cause  it  to  lack  individuality.  The  home  should  be  an 
index  to  the  character  of  the  family.  Do  not  furnish  your 
house  fully  until  you  have  lived  in  it  a  while.  Buy  at  first 
only  such  furniture  as  you  need  for  comfort.  When  you 
are  settled  you  can  study  the  needs  of  each  part  of  the 
house,  and,  after  you  have  fully  determined  exactly  what 
you  want,  buy  it  whenever  you  see  an  advantageous 
chance. 

Never  decide  hastily  upon  a  piece  of  furniture ;  pur- 
chase for  the  future  as  much  as  for  the  present.  It  is 
true  fashions  change  in  furniture  from  year  to  year,  but  it 
is  only  people  of  large  means  who  can  follow  a  fashion  of 
this  kind.  The  plain,  elegant  styles  are  quite  expensive  as 
compared  with  the  ordinary  pieces  which  are  turned  out 
of  factories  by  the  thousand,  and  which  are  covered  with 
ornamentation  to  catch  the  popular  fancy.  One  quickly 
wearies  of  such  furniture  ;  besides,  it  is  not  so  well  made 
as  the  plainer  styles,  and  therefore  gets  out  of  order  very 
easily. 

Get  the  things  necessary  for  kitchen,  bedroom,  dining- 
room,  and  sitting-room  before  doing  anything  about  the 
parlor,  and  let  every  article  be  of  good  quality,  no  matter 
how  plain.  Make  an  estimate  of  what  you  can  spend  on 
each  room ;  then  get  the  best  things  possible. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


5 


What  to  Buy  for  the  Chambers. 

One  can  get  a  chamber  set  for  as  low  a  sum  as  twenty- 
five  dollars  ;  but  the  prices  run  up  rapidly  until  the  hundreds 
are  reached.  Handsome,  well  made  sets,  with  little  or  no 
ornamentation  (the  quality  of  the  wood,  and  the  finish, 
giving  them  a  simple  elegance  not  found  in  more  showy 
pieces)  cost  from  forty  to  seventy-five  dollars.  The  set 
includes  bedstead,  dressing-case,  wash-stand,  towel-rack,  a 
small  table,  two  common  chairs,  and  a  rocker.  The  more 
expensive  sets  have  the  English  wash-stand.  No  marble  is 
used  with  the  finest  chamber  furniture.  The  springs,  mat- 
tresses, etc.,  must  be  purchased  separately,  as  a  rule.  Have 
good  ones.  Have  shades  and  plain  muslin  curtains  for  the 
windows.  Stain  the  floors,  if  possible.  If  you  prefer  not 
to  do  that,  use  straw  matting,  with  one  rug  beside  the  bed 
and  another  in  front  of  the  wash-stand.  In  buying  the 
toilet  set  select  one  that  has  a  plain,  fine  shape  and  simple 
decoration. 

Dining-room  Furniture. 

There  are  two  articles  which  one  must  have  for  this 
room  :  a  table  and  some  chairs.  It  often  happens  that  the 
young  housekeeper,  not  realizing  the  necessity  for  having 
these  of  generous  size,  and  well  made,  chooses  articles  that 
appear  good,  but  which,  in  a  short  time,  become  unstable. 
Oak  is  the  most  satisfactory  wood  for  the  dining-room. 
Have  the  table  of  good  width,  as  a  narrow  one  never  looks 
well.  The  chairs  should  be  strong,  broad-seated,  and  with 
high  backs. 

Having  the  chairs  and  table,  you  can  wait  for  the  other 
things,  although  a  sideboard  table  is  a  desirable  thing,  if 
one  can  afford  it.  If  you  cannot  have  exactly  what  you 
want,  be  patient.  Sideboards,  sideboard  tables,  and  china 
closets  of  glass  all  come  in  such  simple  yet  tasteful  designs 
that  one  may  be  sure  to  like  them  all  one's  life.  It  will  pay 
to  wait  for  such  a  piece  of  furniture.    Have  a  hard-wood 


6         MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


floor,  if  you  can  ;  otherwise  have  the  floor  stained.  Just 
enough  of  the  floor  may  be  stained  to  make  a  deep  border, 
and  a  simple  rug  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  room. 
Shades,  without  any  draperies,  answer  very  well  for  this 
room. 

Comfort  in  the  Sitting-room. 

In  the  sitting-room,  where  the  family  gathers  for  the 
evening,  and  where  some  members  of  the  household  spend 
a  good  part  of  each  day,  put  all  the  comfort  you  can.  Let 
it  be  one  of  the  largest  and  brightest  rooms  in  the  house. 
There  should  be  a  bookcase,  a  firm  table  of  good  size, 
several  comfortable  chairs,  a  couch  with  plenty  of  pillows,  a 
good  lamp,  with  a  shade  that  will  not  try  the  eyes,  some 
pictures,  a  few  plants  and  shades  and  draperies  that  will 
soften,  but  not  exclude,  the  light.  If  possible,  have  an  open 
fireplace.  Let  this  be  a  room  that  shall  always  be  remem- 
bered as  one  of  the  pleasantest  spots  in  the  world.  When 
possible,  have  a  hard-wood  or  a  stained  floor,  with  a  rug  in 
the  centre. 

Selecting  Carpets  and  Rugs. 

In  buying  carpets  remember  that  the  best  are  always  the 
cheapest.  The  more  limited  one's  means  are,  the  more 
essential  it  is  that  only  a  good  article  shall  be  purchased. 
The  best  quality  of  body  Brussels  will  outwear  two  or  more 
of  the  cheaper  tapestry  carpets.  A  finely  woven  smooth 
ingrain  carpet  may  cost  half  a  dollar  more  per  yard  than 
one  of  common  texture,  but  it  will  be  cheaper  in  the 
end.  Nothing  is  more  unsatisfactory  than  one  of  the 
loosely  woven  straw  mattings.  A  fine  matting,  costing  say 
from  sixty  to  seventy  cents  a  yard,  will  last  a  dozen  years  or 
more,  with  constant  wear,  too.  It  is  so  fine  that  but  little 
dust  sifts  through,  and  the  strands  do  not  pull  apart,  as 
in  coarser  grades.  Rugs  for  the  centre  of  the  room  can 
be  made  from  a  body  Brussels,  with  a  border  to  match. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE.  J 


They  should  be  tacked  down.  Japanese  cotton  rugs,  pretty 
and  durable,  cost  from  three  to  six  dollars.  They  are 
good  for  bedrooms,  bath-rooms,  and  sitting-rooms.  Buy 
handsome  rugs  whenever  you  can  afford  to.  They  are 
a  good  investment ;  for,  unlike  carpets,  they  do  not  wear 
out,  and  you  can  hand  them  down  in  the  family  the  same 
as  silver  or  diamonds.  A  beautiful  Oriental  rug  is  a  joy  for- 
ever. In  selecting  one  be  particular  to  see  that  the  colors 
are  rich,  and  have  some  brightness.  In  general,  when 
choosing  carpets,  have  the  groundwork  rather  light,  and  the 
colors  somewhat  neutral.  Such  a  carpet  will  always  look 
clean,  and  you  will  not  feel  the  need  of  shutting  out  the 
sunlight  through  fear  of  the  carpet's  fading. 

Choosing  a  Dinner  and  Tea  Set, 

To  the  young  housekeeper  of  limited  means  the  choice 
of  her  table  china  is  quite  an  important  matter.  One  can 
get  sets  for  seven  and  eight  dollars,  but  I  should  not  advise 
buying  anything  cheaper  than  a  fifteen-dollar  set.  If  a 
decorated  set  be  wanted,  take  one  having  soft  tints,  because 
people  soon  get  weary  of  seeing  pronounced  colors  or 
patterns. 

Very  pretty  English  sets  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  pieces, 
decorated  in  blue,  may  be  had  for  fifteen  dollars.  Minton 
sets  of  one  hundred  and  thirty-six  pieces,  basket-pattern 
border,  and  decorated  in  a  fine  shade  of  blue,  are  offered  as 
low  as  twenty-five  dollars. 

American  china  sets  in  colored  decorations  are  sold  at 
about  the  same  price  as  the  English.  Plain  white  French 
china  sets  of  one  hundred  and  thirty  pieces  cost  about 
thirty-five  dollars.  The  quality  and  prices  rise  rapidly  until 
sets  costing  hundreds  of  dollars  are  reached. 

In  making  a  choice  from  the  great  variety  displayed  there 
are  several  things  to  consider.  For  instance,  what  price 
can  you  afford  to  pay  ?   Is  the  style  one  that  will  be  lasting, 


8        MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


and  are  the  goods  durable?  It  often  happens  that  the 
decoration  of  a  cheap  set  is  much  daintier  than  that  of 
some  of  the  more  expensive  kinds. 

The  English  and  American  wares  are  thick,  and  do  not 
chip  or  break  easily ;  but  when  they  do  chip,  the  broken 
part  soon  becomes  dark.  The  glaze  on  these  wares  cracks 
readily  when  exposed  to  a  high  temperature.  In  a  dinner 
set  one  does  not  notice  particularly  that  the  ware  is  thick ; 
but  thickness  in  the  cups  and  saucers  is  disagreeably  notice- 
able, especially  in  the  English  wares.  Then,  too,  unless  one 
get  a  "  stock  pattern,"  it  will  often  be  difficult  and  expensive 
to  replace  a  broken  piece.  The  dealers  intend  to  carry  a 
pattern  five  years ;  after  that  one  cannot  feel  sure  of  repla- 
cing a  broken  piece  without  much  delay  and  expense.  Plain 
white  French  china  can  always  be  replaced ;  the  glaze  does 
not  crack  when  exposed  to  a  high  temperature ;  if  chipped, 
the  broken  part  does  not  become  discolored ;  the  ware  is  in 
good  shapes ;  the  cups  and  saucers  are  delicate  and  pretty, 
so  that  a  full  set  of  the  china  is  desirable,  which,  to  my 
mind,  is  not  the  case  with  the  English  or  American  wares. 

In  buying  the  French  china  it  is  wise  to  get  plates  with 
rolled  edges.  It  seems  to  me,  all  things  considered,  that 
the  French  china  is  the  most  satisfactory,  unless  there  is  to 
be  rather  rough  handling,  when  I  would  advise  the  purchase 
of  the  English  or  American  productions.  In  that  case  I 
would  further  advise  that  only  a  dinner  set  be  bought,  and 
that  something  daintier  be  taken  for  the  tea  and  breakfast 
table. 

Odd  cups  and  saucers  are  quite  proper,  and  give  variety 
and  brightness  to  the  table.  Odd  dessert  and  salad  plates, 
also,  are  to  be  preferred  to  the  regulation  sets.  The  dessert 
plates  and  cups  and  saucers  that  may  be  picked  up  here 
and  there  in  one's  travels  are  constant  reminders  of  pleasant 
experiences. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


9 


Dainty  Things  for  the  Table. 

Glass  has  largely  taken  the  place  of  silver  on  some  of 
the  most  elegant  tables,  many  housekeepers  collecting  and 
prizing  cut-glass  as  they  would  jewels  ;  but  the  woman  of 
moderate  means  and  good  taste  will  find  it  possible  to  set 
her  table  with  plain,  clear  glass  of  dainty  and  elegant 
shapes  which  will  add  brilliancy  to  the  entire  table  service. 
Water  bottles,  or  carafes,  as  they  are  commonly  called,  are 
much  used,  and  are  a  great  convenience.  Individual  salt- 
cellars are  again  used  instead  of  the  salt-shakers  which  were 
so  popular  for  many  years.  These  salt-cellars  come  in  glass, 
dainty  china,  and  silver.  A  small  silver  salt-spoon  is  placed 
by  each  one.  The  china  and  silver  are  by  all  odds  the  most 
effective  on  the  table.  Pepper  bottles  of  odd  designs  are 
placed  by  the  salt.    Castors  are  not  in  favor. 

Bread-and-butter  plates  may  be  used  at  all  meals,  but 
are  particularly  suited  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  and  tea. 
They  are  placed  at  the  left  of  the  regular  plate.  When 
the  butter  and  bread  are  passed,  you  put  them  on  this 
plate,  dispensing  with  the  small  butter  plate.  These  little 
plates  are  a  great  help  in  keeping  the  table-cloth  clean. 
They  come  in  several  sizes  and  tasteful  patterns. 

Fashions  in  Cutlery. 

Table  cutlery,  as  the  designation  was  formerly  under- 
stood, included  all  the  knives  and  forks,  nut-picks,  etc. 
To-day,  among  well-to-do  people,  all  the  forks,  except  that 
which  belongs  to  the  carving  set,  are  either  sterling-silver 
or  silver-plated.  It  is  astonishing  how  the  table  appliances 
have  multiplied  in  this  luxurious  age.  For  the  fish  course 
there  are  sterling- silver  knives  and  forks  of  special  shapes, 
and  a  broad  silver  knife  and  fork  for  serving  the  fish. 
Oyster  forks  of  another  shape  are  considered  indispensable 
when  raw  oysters  are  served.    Knives  and  forks  of  medium 


IO       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

size  are  used  for  entrees,  the  forks  being  silver  and  the 
knives  having  silver,  silver-plated,  or  steel  blades.  For  the 
meat  course  the  forks  are  silver  and  the  blades  of  the  knives 
steel.  The  dessert  knives  and  forks  are  silver-plated ;  the 
butter  knives  that  are  placed  by  the  little  bread-and-butter 
plates  are  silver.  So  it  will  be  seen  that  the  cutlery  of 
to-day  does  not  mean  for  fine  tables  what  it  did  formerly. 
Common  knives  and  forks  are  made  with  flat  tangs,  to 
which  pieces  of  wood  or  bone  are  joined  for  the  handle. 
In  fine  knives  the  tang  is  made  round,  and  is  pressed  into 
a  round  groove  made  in  the  handle.  Sometimes  this  is 
fastened  with  a  rivet,  sometimes  with  a  spring,  and  again 
with  some  cement. 

The  handles  of  the  finest  knives  are  weighted,  unless 
made  of  a  heavy  material  like  silver.  This  is  important, 
as  it  causes  the  knife  to  lie  flat  upon  the  table.  Handles 
are  made  of  sterling  silver,  mother-of-pearl,  ivory,  grained 
celluloid,  plain  celluloid,  etc.  Buckhorn  and  imitations 
of  buckhorn  are  used  a  great  deal  for  carving  sets.  Ivory 
has  been  used  the  most  for  the  best  class  of  knives  and 
forks,  but  in  furnace-heated  houses  the  ivory  is  apt  to 
split.  Even  the  greatest  care  does  not  insure  against  it, 
and  dealers  find  that  this  often  happens  while  the  goods 
are  kept  in  their  stores.  As  a  substitute  for  ivory,  cel- 
luloid, grained  celluloid,  and  ivorine  are  coming  into  use. 
These  substances  neither  crack,  stain,  nor  turn  yellow,  as 
does  the  ivory  ;  which,  of  course,  is  a  great  consideration. 
Mother-of-pearl  handles  cost  about  twice  as  much  as  ivory. 
With  proper  care  one  can  keep  them  in  good  condition 
through  a  lifetime.  Sterling-silver  handles  are  very  hand- 
some and  satisfactory.  Knives  and  forks  with  metal  handles, 
which  are  plated  with  the  rest  of  the  knife  or  fork,  are  the 
most  commonly  used,  because  they  are  so  easily  cared  for 
and  are  not  liable  to  get  out  of  order.  They  are,  however, 
not  found  upon  elegant  tables. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


1 1 


WHAT  IS  NEEDED  IN  THE  KITCHEN. 

The  kitchen  is  so  important  a  part  of  the  home  that  the 
furnishing  should  be  such  as  to  make  the  work  there  both 
easy  and  successful.  The  following  list  may  aid  the  young 
housekeeper  when  making  her  purchases.  The  woman 
with  a  limited  purse  may  find  that  she  will  have  to  strike 
out  many  things  from  the  list,  while  the  woman  with  a  large 
house  and  money  in  plenty  will  probably  extend  it. 

The  Range. 

Upon  no  one  article  of  household  furniture  do  the  com- 
fort and  well-being  of  the  family  depend  so  much  as  upon 
the  kitchen  range  or  stove.  A  poor  range  will  spoil  not 
only  food,  but  also  good  temper  and  happiness ;  whereas 
the  right  sort  of  range,  well  treated,  will  be  a  source  of  the 
greatest  comfort  and  economy.  No  matter  what  else  you 
feel  you  must  economize  in,  do  not  let  it  be  in  buying  the 
kitchen  range.  Some  ranges  have  reached  such  a  degree 
of  perfection  that  it  is  hard  to  see  where  they  can  be  im- 
proved. The  plainer  the  range  the  easier  it  will  be  to  keep 
it  clean,  and  of  course  the  cost  will  be  less  than  if  it  be 
trimmed  very  much.  Before  making  a  choice,  examine 
every  part  thoroughly.  Always  try  to  get  one  that  has  a 
large  oven  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  range.  There 
should  be  plenty  of  dampers  that  can  be  used  to  hasten  the 
fire  or  to  check  it,  so  that  it  will  keep  twelve  hours,  if  neces- 
sary. Ranges  are  made  that  will  do  this.  Learn  all  the 
characteristics  of  your  range,  and  treat  it  well ;  then  it  will 
be  an  invaluable  friend  to  you. 

In  the  kitchen,  as  in  every  other  part  of  the  house,  it 
is  economy  to  furnish  with  good  articles.  Poor  cooking 
utensils  are  never  cheap.  In  buying  iron  utensils,  be  sure 
to  get  those  that  are  thoroughly  finished.  The  steel  goods 
come  higher  than  the  cast-iron,  but  they  are  so  smooth 


12  MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


that  they  are  four  times  as  valuable  in  the  kitchen  as  the 
rougher  makes. 

The  granite  or  agate  ware  lightens  the  labors  in  the 
kitchen  wonderfully.  It  is,  however,  very  expensive,  and 
is  not  so  well  made  as  formerly.  When  buying  this  ware, 
examine  it  closely  to  see  that  there  is  no  defect  in  the 
enamel.  A  careful  housekeeper  who  does  her  own  work 
will  find  this  ware  a  great  comfort,  it  is  so  light,  smooth,  and 
clean ;  and  with  good  treatment  it  will  last  well. 

Mixing-bowls  come  in  yellow  and  white  ware.  The  white 
is  stone  china,  and  is  more  durable  than  the  yellow;  and 
although  it  costs  more  than  the  latter,  it  is  cheaper  in  the 
end.  A  steamer  of  medium  size  is  one  of  the  most  useful 
utensils.  If  it  be  light  and  simple,  it  will  be  used  frequently 
for  making  puddings  and  for  warming  over  food,  etc.  The 
cheapest  kind  is  made  of  tin,  and  in  two  parts,  the  lower 
part  being  a  deep  saucepan,  into  which  the  water  is  put, 
and  the  upper  part  a  round  pan  with  a  perforated  bottom. 
Be  particular  to  see  that  the  cover  and  all  other  parts  fit 
well. 

Here  is  a  list  of  articles  with  which  all  kitchens  should  be 
supplied  :  — 

List  of  Articles  most  in  Use. 


Basins,  of  granite  ware,  —  one 
three-pint,  one  two-quart,  one 
one-gallon. 

Bowls  :  yellow,  —  two  two-quart, 
one  three-quart,  one  one-gallon, 
two  six-quart  ;  white,  —  six, 
each  holding  about  a  pint ;  two 
smooth  ones,  each  holding 
about  a  quart. 

Bread  board. 

Bread  pans,  two,  for  small  loaves. 
Broilers,  —  one  for  fish,  one  for 

other  uses. 
Broom. 

Bucket,  or  tin  box,  for  sugar. 


Cake  pans,  three,  —  one  deep,  two 

shallow. 
Carving  knife  and  fork. 
Case  knives  and  forks,  six  each. 
Chairs,  three,  —  one  to  be  low  and 

comfortable. 
Chopping  knife  and  bowl. 
Coffee-pot. 
Colander. 

Cups  and  saucers,  half  a  dozen. 
Dipper,  long-handled. 
Dishcloths,  two,  —  one  being  of 

wire. 
Dishpans,  two. 
2  4sh  rack. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


13 


Double  boilers,  two,  —  one  hold- 
ing one  quart,  the  other  two. 

Dredgers  for  salt,  pepper,  and 
flour. 

Dripping-pans,  two,  —  large  and 

small. 
Duster. 
Dustpan. 
Egg-beater. 
Hour  scoop. 
Flour  sieve. 
Frying-basket. 

Frying-pans,  —  one,  small,  with 
short  handle ;  four  with  long 
handles,  Nos.  1,  2,  3,  5. 

Glass  jars  for  rice,  etc. 

Graters,  —  one  for  nutmegs;  one 
coarse,  for  general  use. 

Griddle. 

Lemon  squeezer,  glass. 
Measuring  cups,  two. 
Meat  board. 
Meat  rack,  small. 
Moulding  board. 

Muffin  pans,  two, — each  holding 
eight  or  twelve  muffins. 

Pitchers,  four,  for  milk,  etc. 

Plates,  one  dozen. 

Platters,  two  stone-china,  for 
meat. 

Pudding  mould,  melon,  three-pint. 

Quart  measure. 

Range. 


Rolling-pin. 

Roll-pans,  French,  holding  six  or 
eight  rolls. 

Scotch  bowl,  No.  4. 

Skewers,  set  of  steel. 

Soap-shaker. 

Spice  boxes  or  jars. 

Spoons,  —  six  teaspoons,  two 
table  spoons,  two  wooden 
spoons,  two  large  iron  spoons. 

Steamer. 

Stewpans,  —  two  one-quart,  two 

two-quart,  two  three-quart,  one 

six-quart. 
Stone  pots,  several  small  ones, 

with  covers,  for  various  kinds 

of  meal. 
Stove-brush. 

Strainers,  two,  small,  —  one  for 

general  use,  the  other  for  gravy  ; 

also  one  of  fine  wire. 
Tables,  two  ;  if  possible,  have  one 

covered  with  zinc  or  enamel 

cloth. 
Teakettle. 
Teapot. 

Tin  boxes  for  bread  and  cake. 
Tin  plates,  four,  deep. 
Tin  sheet. 

Towels,  —  three  kinds  for  dishes, 

and  others  for  the  hands. 
Vegetable  masher. 


FURNISHING  THE  LINEN  CLOSET. 

In  olden  times  the  bride  came  to  her  new  home  with 
a  generous  supply  of  linen,  the  greater  part  of  which  was 
spun  and  woven  by  her  own  hands ;  in  many  cases,  indeed, 
the  flax  was  raised  and  prepared  for  the  spinning-wheel  by 
her.  In  some  parts  of  Europe  this  custom  still  exists.  The 
bride  of  to-day  takes  great  pains  and  pride  in  providing 
her  household  linen,  many  months  being  given  to  dainty 


14      miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

sewing  and  embroidery.  Each  article  has  stitched  into  it 
many  bright  hopes  and  day  dreams.  Nothing  else  in  the 
furnishing  of  the  home  has  blended  with  it  so  many  tender, 
loving  thoughts,  and  to  the  woman  of  sentiment  it  is  more 
sacred  than  almost  any  other  household  possession.  Once 
acquired,  this  love  for  fine  household  linen  will  cling  to  a 
woman  all  her  life.  Indeed,  what  material  thing  can  she 
bring  to  her  new  home  that  will  give  more  pleasure  than  a 
generous  supply  for  her  linen  closet? 

Imported  Linens. 

Irish,  French,  Scotch  and  English  table  linens  cover  many 
grades,  from  the  coarsest  to  the  finest  weaving  and  the  most 
elaborate  patterns.  All  the  new  designs  are  large,  but  in 
some  of  the  choicest  damasks  it  is  possible  to  get  small 
patterns,  if  they  be  preferred.  The  damask  sold  by  the 
yard  rarely  reaches  a  higher  price  than  two  dollars  and  a 
half.  If  one  wish  for  especially  pleasing  designs  and  ex- 
tremely fine  quality,  it  will  be  necessary  to  buy  the  set, — 
table-cloth  and  one  dozen  napkins.  The  usual  width  of  the 
best  table  damask  is  two  yards  and  a  half,  but  it  may  be 
three  yards  in  width.  The  cloths  come  from  two  and  a 
half  to  four  yards  in  length.  In  these  handsome  cloths  the 
border  is  deep,  and  the  centre  frequently  perfectly  plain. 

Table-cloths  and  Napkins. 

The  range  in  quality  and  price  of  table  linen  is  greater 
than  that  of  almost  any  other  fabric.  It  is  a  long  step  from 
the  materials  that  are  so  coarse,  so  loosely  woven  that  they 
might  be  used  for  sieves,  to  the  double  damask,  so  fine  that 
even  under  a  magnifying  glass  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
discern  the  threads.  One  can  buy  three  or  four  yards  of 
the  coarse  fabric  for  about  a  dollar,  and  it  is  possible  to  be 
asked  one  hundred  times  as  much  for  a  dozen  napkins  and 
a  table-cloth,  three  or  four  yards  long,  of  the  finer  quality. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


15 


But  the  average  housekeeper  does  not  go  to  these  extremes. 
It  does,  however,  often  happen  that  a  woman  with  a  limited 
purse,  and  a  thousand  calls  upon  it,  makes  the  mistake  of 
buying  table  linen  of  too  inferior  a  grade.  It  is  not  economy 
to  purchase  a  mixture  of  cotton  and  linen.  Better  a  coarse 
all-linen  table  cloth  than  a  fine  one  with  part  cotton,  which 
may  look  attractive  in  the  store,  but  cannot  be  laundered 
well,  whereas  the  pure  linen  will  improve  with  age  and  wear. 
In  purchasing  table  linen  the  questions  that  the  housekeeper 
should  ask  herself  are  :  Will  it  be  subject  to  hard  wear,  and 
be  laundered  by  inexperienced  hands?  Can  I  afford  to 
replenish  it  frequently?  Shall  it  be  fine  and  beautiful,  or 
shall  it  be  durable,  with  as  much  beauty  as  possible  under 
the  circumstances? 

The  finest  goods  are  of  Irish  and  French  manufacture  ;  but 
the  German,  while  coarse,  wear  wonderfully  well,  and  some 
of  them  have  very  handsome  designs.  Nothing  in  the  way 
of  linen  lasts  longer  than  the  half- bleached  damask,  and  if 
one  live  in  the  country,  this  may  be  bleached  to  a  snowy 
whiteness  in  a  few  months.  In  purchasing  these  German 
goods  it  is  wise  to  get  a  cloth  that  costs  at  least  one  dollar 
and  a  half  or  two  dollars  per  yard.  A  cloth  of  this  kind  will 
outwear  several  of  the  cheaper  grades  that  are  mixed  with 
cotton,  and  if  properly  laundered  it  will  always  look  well. 
Of  course,  one  can  get  in  these  goods  a  fair  piece  of  table 
linen  at  seventy-five  cents  or  a  dollar  per  yard,  but  the  better 
quality  will  be  found  to  be  the  cheaper  in  the  end.  Dinner, 
luncheon,  and  tea  sets  may  be  had,  the  cloth  costing  no 
more  than  if  bought  by  the  yard,  with  the  advantage  of 
having  a  border  all  around  it. 

A  piece  of  heavy  felt  or  double-faced  Canton  flannel  will 
be  required  under  the  table-cloth.  It  will  cost  about  eighty 
cents  a  yard.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  get  one  that  will  answer 
when  the  table  is  enlarged  for  guests.  It  can  be  folded 
double  when  the  table  is  small. 


16       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Size  and  Quality  of  Napkins. 

Fashion  has  decreed  that  a  napkin  shall  not  be  put  on 
the  table  a  second  time  until  it  has  been  washed.  Few 
housekeepers,  however,  have  the  means  to  provide  them- 
selves with  such  a  supply  of  napkins,  not  to  speak  of  the 
laundress  to  care  for  them ;  so  the  napkin  ring  is  still  a 
necessity  in  the  average  household.  It  is  important,  how- 
ever, that  the  supply  be  large  enough  to  admit  of  their 
being  changed  two  or  three  times  a  week.  For  general 
use  a  dinner  napkin  is  to  be  preferred,  unless  a  separate 
set  of  table-cloths  and  napkins  be  desired  for  breakfast. 
In  that  case  the  napkins  should  be  smaller  than  for  din- 
ner. All  napkins  are  finished  with  a  plain  hem,  or  are 
hemstitched. 

Fringe  is  rarely  used,  except  on  fancy  doilies.  The 
plain  square  napkin  comes  in  all  sizes,  from  twenty  inches 
to  the  size  of  the  dinner  napkins,  which  measure  twenty- 
seven  inches  ;  and  the  cost  is  anywhere  from  one  dollar  and 
a  half  to  fifty  dollars  a  dozen.  At  five  or  six  dollars  a 
dozen  one  can  get  napkins  that  are  good  enough  for  ordi- 
nary use.  The  cheaper  and  smaller  ones  are  unsatisfactory. 
Whenever  possible,  the  napkin  should  match  the  cloth. 
One  cloth  will  outwear  two  sets  of  napkins  ;  therefore  it  is 
well  to  get  two  dozen  napkins  to  each  cloth.  One  cannot 
err  in  laying  in  a  generous  stock  of  plain  ones,  but  the 
style  of  the  small  fancy  napkins  is  constantly  changing,  and 
one  should  not  buy  too  many  of  them  at  a  time. 

A  Word  about  Doilies. 

Small  square  or  round  doilies  are  used  a  great  deal 
under  finger  bowls,  Roman  punch,  and  sherbet  glasses. 
These  dainty  bits  of  napery  can  be  purchased  in  all  the 
stores  where  embroidery  and  materials  for  needlework  are 
sold;  also  in  the  linen  stores.    These  doilies  are  either 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


*7 


hemstitched  or  fringed.  The  embroidery  is  usually  in 
washable  silks,  fine  flowers  or  Dresden  patterns  being  the 
favorites.  Doilies  also  come  in  Irish  point,  Mexican  work, 
and  various  kinds  of  lace.  Larger  doilies  for  bread,  cake, 
cheese,  etc.,  are  embroidered  in  white  or  colored  silks, 
with  appropriate  mottoes.  Ladies  who  wish  to  do  this 
kind  of  work  for  themselves,  or  their  friends,  can  send  to 
a  stamping  and  embroidery  store  for  a  sample  doily,  and 
the  materials  for  a  dozen  or  more.  One  should  aim  to  get 
as  much  variety  as  possible  in  color  and  design  in  the 
dozen.    A  very  fine  linen  is  the  material  generally  used. 

At  the  Oriental  stores  there  can  be  found  a  small  doily, 
of  a  crepe-like  material,  thickly  embroidered  with  silk,  or 
silver  and  gold  thread.  They  come  with  and  without  a 
fringe,  the  fringed  ones  costing  more  than  twice  as  much  as 
those  without.  I  prefer  those  without  the  fringe  for  table 
use.  These  doilies  can  be  washed,  but  it  must  be  with 
great  care.  If  the  housekeeper  will  be  careful  to  wash  and 
iron  her  doilies  herself,  they  will  always  look  fresh  and 
dainty.  Make  a  strong  suds  with  hot  water  and  white 
castile  soap  ;  wash  the  doilies  in  this,  and  rinse  them  in 
several  warm  waters.  Squeeze  them  very  dry,  and  spread 
them  on  a  clean  towel,  and  cover  another  towel  over  them. 
Roll  up  tight  and  iron  immediately. 

Tea,  Carving,  and  Tray  Cloths. 

For  the  small  tables  that  are  set  for  five  o'clock  teas  and 
card  parties,  etc.,  there  are  many  pretty  and  inexpensive 
cloths.  Plain  linen,  with  a  plain  or  double  row  of  hem- 
stitching, makes  a  satisfactory  cloth.  The  cost  is  about 
one  dollar  for  a  cloth  measuring  a  yard  square ;  plain 
damask,  with  hemstitching,  costs  from  one  dollar  and  a 
half  to  two  dollars  a  square  yard,  and  one  dollar  more  for 
a  cloth  measuring  two  square  yards.  Some  long  damask 
cloths,  with  open-work  borders  and  a  fringe,  cost  four  or 


1 8         MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


five  dollars.  Small  hemstitched  cloths  of  linen  and  dam- 
ask come  for  carving  cloths,  tray  cloths,  and  centre  pieces. 
They  cost  all  the  way  from  twenty-five  cents  upward. 
These  are  useful  in  protecting  the  table,  and  they  may  be 
made  decorative  by  embroidery. 

Sheets  and  Pillow  Cases. 

Sheets  should  always  be  of  generous  length  and  width ; 
never  less  than  two  yards  and  three  quarters  long,  with  the 
breadth,  of  course,  depending  upon  the  width  of  the  bed. 
While  linen  sheets  are  desirable,  they  are  not  within  the 
means  of  all  housekeepers  of  even  fair  incomes.  Cotton 
cloth  makes  a  most  satisfactory  all-the-year-round  sheet, 
and  a  good  quality  can  be  purchased  at  from  twenty- five 
cents  to  seventy-five  cents  per  yard,  the  cloth  being  from 
two  yards  to  two  and  a  half  wide.  Indeed,  one  can  buy 
•good  sheets  already  made,  two  yards  and  a  half  wide,  for 
one  dollar  and  a  quarter  or  one  dollar  and  a  half  apiece. 
It  is  always  more  economical  to  buy  the  cloth  and  make 
them  at  home,  for  two  hems  do  not  mean  much  work. 
Unbleached  sheeting  may  be  made  up,  and  bleached  on  the 
grass.  Buy  unbleached  cotton  for  servants'  sheets  and  pil- 
low cases,  but  do  not  make  them  too  small.  If  the  bed 
linen  be  made  of  generous  proportions  it  will  protect  the 
bedding,  and  be  more  comfortable  for  the  sleepers.  Linen 
sheets  three  yards  long  can  be  bought  for  from  five  to 
fourteen  dollars  per  pair.  Pillow  cases  to  match  sell  from 
two  to  three  dollars  and  a  half  per  pair.  The  finest  are 
hemstitched. 

Bed  Spreads  and  Blankets. 

For  many  years  the  honeycomb  and  Marseilles  spreads 
have  been  almost  universally  used.  They  are  still  sold  in 
large  quantities,  and  will  always  be  popular,  for  they  need 
only  to  be  hemmed  in  order  to  be  made  ready  for  use. 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


19 


They  do  not  rumple  readily,  they  keep  clean  a  long  time, 
and  are,  indeed,  a  most  serviceable  article.  The  Marseilles 
quilts  cost  from  two  to  fifteen  dollars.  Some  come  in 
colors  ;  but  let  no  housekeeper  be  tempted  by  their  beauty, 
for  she  will  find  it  a  difficult  matter  to  make  them  harmo- 
nize with  the  other  furnishings  of  her  rooms.  Dimity  is 
being  used  again.  It  costs  from  two  dollars  and  a  half  to 
four  dollars  and  a  half  a  spread.  If  one  wish  to  make  a 
bolster  scarf  to  go  with  the  dimity,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
purchase  a  small  spread  and  cut  it  in  two.  These  spreads, 
being  dainty  and  easily  washed,  are  in  great  favor. 

Materials  for  spreads  come  in  all  sorts  of  fabrics.  Gobe- 
lin cloth  and  what  is  called  basket  cloth,  both  soft,  pretty 
goods,  are  found  two  yards  wide,  and  cost  about  one 
dollar  and  a  half  a  yard.  These  materials  are  made  into 
spreads  and  bolster  scarfs  ;  or,  instead  of  the  scarfs,  a  round 
bolster  may  be  covered  with  the  material.  These  spreads 
and  scarfs  are  often  embroidered  in  washable  silks. 

Next  to  bed  linen  and  towels  in  plenty,  one  of  the  essen- 
tials for  the  health  and  comfort  of  the  household  is  the  stock 
of  blankets.  Cotton  batting  comforters  are  cheap  and  warm, 
but  extremely  debilitating  to  the  sleeper ;  and  since  they 
cannot  be  washed,  they  are  uncleanly,  as  compared  with 
the  woollen  coverings.  Use  plenty  of  blankets  instead, 
and  have  them  washed  frequently.  For  people  of  limited 
means,  blankets  that  cost  from  five  to  six  dollars  a  pair  are 
serviceable.  People  are  buying  more  blankets  that  are  made 
of  part  wool  and  part  cotton  than  of  the  all-wool  patterns. 
This  is  because  they  can  be  washed  frequently  without 
shrinking.  Select  a  smooth,  soft  blanket  with  white  cotton 
binding.  The  simpler  the  border  the  longer  it  will  please 
you.  If  possible,  have  a  pair  of  summer  blankets  for  each 
bed.  These  cost  from  three  to  ten  dollars  a  pair.  They 
can  be  washed  as  easilv  as  a  sheet,  and  are  a  source  of  the 
greatest  comfort  in  hot  weather.  As  they  will  last  the 
greater  part  of  a  lifetime,  get  good  ones.    When  blanke:s 


20         MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


are  not  in  use  they  should  be  folded  smoothly,  pinned  in 
sheets,  and  placed  on  shelves  in  the  linen  closet. 

Bath  and  Bedroom  Towels. 

In  nothing  relating  to  the  supplies  of  her  house  does  the 
average  housekeeper  make  so  many  errors  as  in  the  matter 
of  towels.  It  has  not  been  wholly  her  fault  in  the  past,  but 
it  certainly  will  be  in  the  time  to  come,  if  bright  borders 
and  deep  fringes  decorate  the  towels  with  which  she  fur- 
nishes her  chambers  and  bath-rooms.  As  in  the  past,  so  it 
is  now  :  there  is  nothing  so  satisfactory  for  general  use  as  the 
huckaback  towels.  They  are  excellent  for  absorbing  water, 
and  the  slight  friction  is  both  pleasant  and  healthful.  They 
are  now  hemstitched,  and  cost  from  twenty-five  cents  to  a 
dollar  and  a  half  apiece,  according  to  size  and  quality. 
The  goods  can  be  bought  by  the  yard  if  one  prefer  to  make 
her  own  towels.  There  are  huckaback  towels  of  fancy  weav- 
ing, which,  hemstitched,  cost  from  fifty  cents  to  on  dollar 
and  a  quarter  apiece.  Some  of  these  are  fringed,  at  thirty- 
seven  and  a  half  cents  apiece.  Damask  towels,  which  are 
really  more  tor  show  than  use,  cost  from  twenty-five  cents 
to  two  dollars  and  a  half.  For  the  bath-room  there  are 
really  so  many  good  things  that  it  is  a  difficult  matter  to 
choose.  There  always  should  be  soft  coarse  towels  that 
will  absorb  water  quickly,  and  at  the  same  time  cause  a 
slight  friction.  The  towels  also  should  be  of  generous  size. 
The  huckaback  is  always  good  for  drying  off,  but  there 
should  be  a  good  friction  towel  after  this.  Among  the  good 
bath  towels  are  crash  towels,  at  twenty-five  cents  apiece. 
Oxford  towels,  something  like  huckaback,  but  very  large  — 
26x50  inches  —  are  one  dollar  apiece.  Imperial  bath  tow- 
els, of  a  peculiar  style  of  weaving,  absorbing  water  like  a 
sponge,  cost  a  dollar  apiece.  Turkish  towels  make  an  excel- 
lent friction  towel,  and  are  within  the  means  of  all.  They 
can  be  bought  for  even  less  than  twenty-five  cents ;  but  I 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE.  21 

would  not  advise  anything  cheaper  than  twenty-five  or  fifty 
cents,  as  a  towel  of  this  kind  should  be  large.  An  article 
which  to  me  seems  ideal  as  a  friction  towel  is  the  kind 
made  of  linen  tape,  which  costs  one  dollar. 

For  Kitchen  and.  Pantry. 

There  should  be  a  generous  supply  of  kitchen  and  pantry 
towels.  Nothing  is  more  satisfactory  for  glassware  than  the 
plaid  linen  towels.  These  should  be  kept  for  silver,  glass, 
and  fine  china.  Goods  of  this  same  character  come  in 
stripes,  and  cost  from  twelve  and  a  half  to  thirty-seven  and 
a  half  cents  per  yard.  Fine  Russian  crash,  when  softened 
by  a  little  wear,  makes  the  best  kitchen  dish  towel.  It 
grows  finer  and  whiter  with  each  week's  use,  whereas  the 
very  coarse  fabric  really  never  softens.  Every  kitchen 
should  be  supplied  with  half  a  dozen  stove  towels.  Get 
twilled  brown  cotton  crash ;  cut  it  into  yard- and- a- half 
lengths  and  hem  it.  Keep  but  two  of  these  towels  in  the 
kitchen,  and  have  one  washed  each  day.  They  are  to  use 
in  handling  the  pots  and  pans  about  the  stove  and  oven. 
There  should  be  a  generous  allowance  of  crash  towels  in 
the  kitchen,  as  every  utensil  should  be  carefully  wiped  with 
one  that  is  clean  and  dry. 

The  hand  towels  in  the  kitchen  should  be  soft  and 
smooth.  Frequent  wiping  on  the  rough  Russian  crash  will 
soon  make  the  hands  red  and  rough,  as  this  hard  fabric 
scratches  and  does  not  wipe  dry.  A  twilled  crash  of  cotton 
and  linen,  which  may  be  bought  from  twelve  and  a  half  to 
fifteen  cents  a  yard,  makes  satisfactory  hand  towels.  There 
are  many  varieties. 


PUBLIC 


CHAPTER  III. 


DIVISION  OP  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK. 

IT  is  a  perplexing  task  for  young  housekeepers  to  divide 
properly  the  weekly  work  of  the  household.  Even  when 
I  start  to  write  on  the  subject,  many  difficulties  present 
themselves,  as  no  two  houses  are  conducted  on  exactly  the 
same  plan.  What  would  be  the  right  thing  for  one  home 
would  be  entirely  impracticable  in  another.  The  woman 
who  does  her  own  work,  or  keeps  but  one  servant,  must,  of 
course,  plan  her  work  quite  differently  from  the  woman  who 
keeps  two  or  more  servants.  Then,  too,  the  place  and 
mode  of  living  will  influence  the  arrangement  of  household 
work.  For  example,  in  the  country  the  style  of  living  is 
much  simpler  than  in  the  city ;  the  hours  are  more  regular, 
there  are  fewer  stairs  to  go  over,  less  dirt  and  dust  accumu- 
late, and,  in  short,  practically  all  the  work  is  done  on  two 
floors.  This  makes  the  duties  of  mistress  and  maid  lighter 
than  in  the  city  house.  The  pure  air,  quiet  surroundings, 
and  long,  uninterrupted  hours  make  it  possible  for  a  woman 
to  accomplish  a  great  deal  of  housework  in  a  day,  and  yet 
have  leisure  for  reading,  sewing,  and  quiet  thinking. 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  the  city  housekeeper  has  her 
advantages,  such  as  the  house  fitted  with  all  modern  con- 
veniences ;  stores  and  markets  close  at  hand ;  and,  if  extra 
or  heavy  work  is  to  be  done,  easy  means  of  getting  men 
and  women  to  do  it.  The  changing  scenes  in  the  city 
take  woman  out  of  herself  and  the  narrowing  cares  of  home 
life,  and  keep  her  interested  and  in  touch  with  the  world, 
thus  making  her  duties  less  irksome  than  they  might  be  in 
a  regular  and  monotonous  life. 


DIVISION  OF  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK.  23 


Yet,  no  matter  where  one  resides,  there  are  certain  daily 
duties  that  must  be  attended  to  if  people  would  live  de- 
cently and  in  order.  I  will  try  to  map  out  programmes  of 
these  duties,  so  that  the  inexperienced  housekeeper  will  be 
able  to  outline  her  daily  work  by  them.  It  is  not  to  be 
expected  that  these  programmes  will  be  followed  exactly  ; 
they  are  simply  suggestions  which  each  housekeeper  may 
adapt  to  the  exigencies  of  her  own  household. 

Every-day  Duties. 

As  there  are  many  routine  duties  that  must  be  per- 
formed every  day,  I  will  treat  of  them  here.  Special  work 
will  have  a  day  assigned  to  it.  It  is  almost  appalling  to 
look  at  the  list  of  daily  duties  of  the  household,  when  one 
remembers  that  it  frequently  happens  that  there  is  but  one 
pair  of  hands  to  do  all  the  work  ;  yet  there  are  thousands 
of  women  who  are  well  and  happy  in  passing  their  lives 
that  way,  knowing  that  they  contribute  to  the  health  and 
comfort  of  their  families.  If  there  be  system  in  doing  the 
work,  the  burden  will  be  materially  lightened.  Each  mem- 
ber of  the  family  has  his  or  her  duties.  Habits  of  order 
and  punctuality  should  be  cultivated.  Being  late  at  meals 
and  leaving  things  out  of  place  will  increase  the  burdens  of 
the  housekeeper  in  a  marked  degree. 

What  to  do  in  the  Morning. 

First,  make  the  kitchen  fire  ;  take  up  and  sift  the  ashes. 
After  brushing  all  the  dust  from  the  range,  wash  off  the 
surface  with  a  cloth  and  soap  and  water  ;  then  polish  it 
with  stove  blacking.  Rinse  out  the  teakettle,  and  after 
the  water  has  been  running  from  the  cold-water  pipes  for 
about  five  minutes,  fill  the  kettle  and  place  it  on  the  fire. 
Sweep  and  dust  the  kitchen.  Put  the  breakfast  dishes  on 
to  heat.  Air  the  dining-room  and  set  the  table ;  then 
prepare  and  serve  the  breakfast.    Clear  the  breakfast  table 


24         MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


assorting  the  dishes  and  freeing  them  from  scraps  of  food. 
Soak  in  cold  water  any  dishes  that  are  soiled  with  mush, 
milk,  or  eggs ;  put  the  silver  in  a  pitcher  of  warm  water. 

Go  up  stairs  and  open  the  chamber  windows,  if  they 
were  not  opened  the  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Take  the 
clothes  from  the  beds,  one  piece  at  a  time,  and  spread  over 
chairs  or  a  low  screen,  so  that  the  air  shall  pass  through 
them  freely.  Beat  the  pillows  and  bolsters,  and  place  them 
in  a  current  of  air.  Turn  the  mattresses  so  that  they  shall 
be  aired  on  all  sides.  Leave  the  rooms  to  air  for  an  hour, 
or  longer  if  possible. 

Return  to  the  kitchen  and  wash  the  dishes  ;  then  put 
them  away  at  once.  Wash  the  dish-towels  in  plenty  of 
soap  and  water,  and  rinse  thoroughly ;  when  possible,  dry 
them  out  of  doors.  Air,  brush,  and  dust  the  dining-room  ; 
then  draw  the  shades.  Make  the  beds,  empty  the  slops, 
and  wash  and  wipe  the  bedroom  toilet  china.  Put  the 
rooms  in  order  and  dust  them.  Next  wash  the  basins  and 
the  bath-tub,  if  necessary,  and  dust  the  bath-room. 

Dust  the  halls  and  sitting-room,  and  any  other  rooms 
that  may  require  it  Collect  the  lamps  and  trim  them. 
Prepare  the  dinner  or  luncheon.  If  you  live  in  the  city, 
the  vestibule  and  sidewalk  must  be  swept,  and  perhaps 
washed.  The  earlier  this  work  is  done,  the  better,  as  there 
will  be  less  annoyance  from  frequent  passers  early  in  the 
morning.  If  the  home  be  in  the  country,  the  front  and 
back  steps  and  the  piazzas  should  be  swept  at  the  hour 
most  convenient  for  the  housekeeper.  In  freezing  weather 
do  not,  of  course,  attempt  to  wash  the  piazza,  steps,  or 
sidewalk,  as  the  result  would  be  an  icy  surface,  dangerous 
to  limb  and  life. 

Special  Work  for  Special  Days. 

On  Monday,  as  soon  as  the  water  is  warm,  put  the 
clothes  to  soak  in  strong  suds.    After  the  breakfast  dishes 


DIVISION  OF  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK. 


25 


have  been  washed,  begin  to  wash  the  clothes.  While  one 
boilerful  is  being  scalded  and  a  second  batch  of  clothes 
has  been  prepared  for  the  boiler,  put  out  the  line.  Now 
put  the  scalded  clothes  in  the  rinsing  water.  Take  nearly 
all  the  hot  suds  from  the  boiler,  and  replace  with  clean 
cold  water,  putting  the  second  batch  of  clothes  to  scald 
in  this.  Rinse  the  first  lot  and  put  on  the  lines  to  dry  ; 
continue  the  work  until  everything  except  the  flannels  and 
colored  articles  have  been  washed  While  the  coarse 
towels  are  being  scalded,  wash  and  hang  out  the  flannels  ; 
next  wash  the  colored  things.  When  all  the  clothes  have 
been  hung  out,  empty  the  boiler  and  wash  and  wipe  it  until 
perfectly  dry  ;  also  clean  the  laundry.  Now  take  a  lun- 
cheon. Do  the  chamber-work,  and  then  prepare  the  family 
luncheon  or  dinner.  The  brushing  up  and  dusting  must  be 
omitted  to-day.  After  the  noonday  meal,  wash  the  dishes 
and  clean  up  the  kitchen.  Eathe,  and  change  your  clothes  ; 
and  after  resting,  take  the  clothes  from  the  lines  and 
sprinkle  and  fold  them.  Flannels  must  be  taken  in  while 
they  are  still  slightly  damp.  Iron  the  flannels,  and  after 
that  prepare  the  evening  meal.  In  the  short  winter  days 
it  will  be  best  to  wash  the  flannels  and  colored  clothes 
before  the  white  articles,  as  the  more  rapidly  a  woollen  or 
colored  fabric  dries  the  better  it  will  look. 

On  Tuesday,  directly  after  the  breakfast  dishes  have 
been  washed  and  the  dining-room  put  in  order,  begin  iron- 
ing, starting  with  the  plain  pieces,  such  as  sheets  and 
pillow-cases.  As  soon  as  the  irons  work  smoothly,  iron  the 
starched  clothes.  In  about  two  or  three  hours  the  fire 
must  be  replenished.  When  this  is  done,  and  while  it  is 
burning  up,  do  the  chamber  work.  If  all  the  ironing  can- 
not be  done  in  the  forenoon,  finish  it,  if  you  can,  in  the 
afternoon.  The  meals  for  washing  and  ironing  days  should 
be  as  simple  as  possible. 


26 


MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Where  one  Servant  is  Kept. 

If  there  be  one  servant  in  the  house,  the  mistress  can 
make  these  two  days  less  burdensome,  if  she  herself  will 
wash  the  breakfast  dishes,  put  the  dining-room  in  order,  and 
make  the  beds.  If  there  be  children  in  the  family,  they  can 
be  taught  to  do  the  lighter  work.  In  suggesting  that  the 
chamber  work  be  left  until  the  fire  is  renewed,  it  is  supposed 
that  hard  coal  is  used.  If  wood  or  soft  coal  be  used,  the 
fire  will  have  to  be  replenished  frequently ;  and  since  these 
substances  burn  much  more  readily,  the  time  for  chamber 
work  will  be  limited  unless  the  draughts  be  closed.  Wednes- 
day is  often  taken  by  housekeepers  for  a  sort  of  off  day  ;  but 
if,  as  is  the  case  in  many  Eastern  towns,  Thursday  be  the 
servant's  day  out,  it  will  be  better  to  sweep  on  Wednesday, 
and  have  the  lighter  work  done  on  Thursday.  Once  in  two 
weeks  should  be  often  enough  for  a  thorough  cleaning  of 
most  of  the  rooms  in  a  well  regulated  house.  A  room  prop- 
erly cleaned  will  be  in  a  better  sanitary  condition  at  the  end 
of  two  weeks  than  one  that  is  only  half  cleaned  every  week. 
If  the  floors  be  of  natural  wood,  or  be  stained  or  painted, 
the  dust  and  lint  must  be  wiped  off  with  a  dry  cloth  every 
few  days,  but  if  the  floors  be  carpeted  the  thorough  sweep- 
ing once  in  two  weeks  should  be  sufficient,  except  in  a 
sitting-room  or  dining-room.  I  will  give  the  method  of 
cleaning  a  room  properly.  These  directions,  slightly  modi- 
fied, apply  to  all  rooms. 

Cleaning  a  Room  by  System. 

Remove  the  draperies,  and  dust  and  remove  all  small 
articles.  Dust  all  the  furniture,  removing  the  lighter  articles 
and  covering  the  heavy  pieces  ;  dust  and  cover  the  pictures. 
Brush  the  walls  and  ceilings,  being  careful  to  remove  all  dust 
from  the  tops  of  the  doors  and  windows.  Brush  all  dust 
from  the  window  frames,  ledges,  and  blinds.  If  there  be 
rugs  on  a  bare  floor,  roll  them  up  and  put  them  out  of  doors 


DIVISION  OF  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK.  27 

to  be  beaten  and  aired ;  then  sweep  the  floor  with  a  soft 
brush.  After  all  the  dusting  and  washing  of  windows  has 
been  finished,  rub  the  floor  with  a  soft,  dry  cloth.  If  it  be 
a  stained  or  painted  floor,  wipe  it  a  second  time  with  a  cloth 
slightly  dampened  with  kerosene  ;  or  if  it  be  polished,  do 
the  polishing  at  this  time.  If  the  room  be  carpeted,  sweep 
it  with  a  clean  broom  ;  if  the  carpet  be  very  dusty,  sprinkle 
over  it,  before  sweeping,  corn  meal  or  sawdust,  slightly 
dampened ;  or,  if  it  be  more  convenient,  take  dry  salt. 
Let  the  dust  settle,  then  sweep  the  carpet  a  second  time. 
Now  dust  the  room,  wash  the  windows,  and  remove  the 
covers  from  the  furniture  and  pictures.  After  this  has  been 
done,  put  two  gallons  of  tepid  water  in  a  pail  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  household  ammonia.  Wring  a  cloth  out  of 
this  and  wipe  the  carpet,  rubbing  hard  to  remove  any  dust. 
Beat  the  rugs  by  spreading  them  face  down  on  clean  grass 
or  a  smooth  board  and  beating  with  a  switch  or  rattan 
beater.  If  it  be  impossible  to  lay  them  flat,  hang  them  on 
a  line  and  beat  them.  Place  them  on  the  floors,  and  put 
the  furniture,  ornaments,  and  draperies  in  place.  Clean 
one  or  more  rooms  in  this  manner  on  Wednesday  morning. 
Prepare  the  noonday  meal,  and  after  this  has  been  served, 
and  the  dining-room  and  kitchen  put  in  order,  rest  until  it 
is  time  to  attend  to  the  evening  meal. 

The  Last  Half  of  the  Week. 

On  Thursday,  after  the  regular  work  is  done,  the  morn- 
ing should  be  devoted  to  various  odd  tasks,  such  as  clean- 
ing the  refrigerator,  and  inspecting  and  cleaning  the  cellar. 
See  that  no  decaying  vegetation,  damp  paper,  etc.,  is 
there.  Wash  the  cellar  stairs.  Next  clean  the  kitchen 
and  prepare  something  for  the  evening  meal ;  then  serve 
the  noonday  meal. 

The  remainder  of  the  weekly  sweeping  should  be  done 
on  Friday  morning.    Every  two  weeks  the  silver  should  be 


28       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


cleaned  in  the  afternoon.  Many  housekeepers  clean  silvei 
every  week,  but  if  it  be  properly  washed  and  wiped  each 
day  this  will  be  unnecessary. 

As  there  must  be  some  extra  cooking  done  on  Saturday 
for  Sunday,  plan  for  that  on  Friday,  making  all  the  arrange- 
ments possible,  so  that  this  work  may  be  done  early  Satur- 
day morning,  while  the  fire  is  at  its  best.  All  the  materials 
for  cooking  should  be  in  the  house  on  Friday  afternoon  or 
early  Saturday  morning.  If  fruits  are  to  be  prepared  for 
the  next  day's  baking,  get  them  ready  some  time  on  Friday. 
Saturday  is  usually  a  busy  day.  Extra  cooking  and  clean- 
ing must  be  done,  that  the  work  on  Sunday  may  be  light. 
Many  housekeepers  change  the  beds  on  Saturday,  rather 
than  on  Sunday.  If  this  be  the  practice,  when  the  rooms 
are  put  to  air,  remove  the  soiled  linen  and  spread  out  the 
fresh,  that  it  may  be  well  aired.  If  possible,  rise  early 
enough  to  clean  the  steps,  piazza,  and  sidewalk  before 
breakfast.  As  soon  as  the  regular  morning  work  is  done, 
attend  to  the  extra  cooking.  When  this  is  finished,  clean 
the  kitchen  and  its  closets,  the  china  closets,  and  the  back 
hall. 

A  Day  of  Rest. 

Plan  to  have  as  little  work  as  possible  to  do  on  Sunday, 
but  do  not  fall  into  the  error  of  wearing  yourself  out  on 
Saturday  and  making  all  the  family  uncomfortable  on  Sun- 
day, simply  because  you  would  not  break  the  Sabbath.  The 
woman  who  manages  to  keep  her  family  comfortable  and 
happy  on  this  day,  even  if  it  be  necessary  to  do  a  little  ex- 
tra work  to  attain  that  end,  will  have  a  better  moral  and 
spiritual  influence  than  she  who  makes  all  the  members 
dread  the  day  as  being  one  of  the  most  uncomfortable  in 
the  whole  week  at  home.  In  most  families  on  this  day  the 
breakfast  is  late  and  the  dinner  served  about  two  o'clock, 
the  supper  being  light  and  informal.  While  there  are  many 
housekeepers  who  still  cling  to  the  old  custom  of  having 


DIVISION  OF  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK.  29 


cold  dinners,  the  majority  have  a  hot  one,  as  it  often  hap- 
pens that  this  is  the  only  meal  throughout  the  week  at 
which  the  whole  family  is  sure  to  meet. 

If  but  one  servant  be  kept,  she  ought  not  to  be  required 
to  perform  any  duties  after  the  dinner  dishes  have  been 
washed  and  put  away.  The  remainder  of  the  day  and 
evening  should  belong  to  her.  If  there  be  no  servant,  the 
housekeeper  surely  is  entitled  to  what  little  rest  she  can 
get  after  dinner,  and  the  other  members  of  the  family  should 
find  it  a  pleasure  to  prepare  whatever  light  refreshments 
may  be  required  in  the  evening.  Remember  that  there  are 
heavy  duties  for  Monday  morning,  and  do  not  leave  a  lot 
of  dishes  in  disorder  to  add  to  these  burdens. 

Two  or  More  Servants  in  a  Family. 

The  round  of  duties  for  the  week  having  been  thus  out- 
lined, I  wish  to  make  a  few  suggestions  to  the  woman  who 
keeps  two  or  more  servants.  The  duties  must  be  so  divided 
that  each  shall  bear  her  proper  proportion  of  the  work.  In 
the  case  where  there  are  several  servants,  there  is  greater 
ceremony  in  the  mode  of  living.  Suppose  there  be  two 
servants,  and  the  family  be  fairly  large.  The  second  girl 
must  do  all  the  upstairs  work,  take  care  of  the  parlors,  halls, 
dining-room,  china  closet,  etc.  It  will  be  her  duty  to  care 
for  the  silver,  glass,  and  fine  china.  Every  evening,  after 
the  dining-room  work  is  finished,  she  will  go  to  the  cham- 
bers, empty  all  slops,  refill  the  water  pitchers,  turn  back  the 
bed  clothes,  and  lay  the  night  garments  on  the  bed.  She 
will  draw  the  shades  and  see  that  there  is  a  stock  of  matches, 
towels,  etc.  In  the  morning  she  will  attend  to  the  dining- 
room,  put  the  breakfast  dishes  on  to  heat,  dust  the  lower 
halls  and  parlors,  and  sweep  the  steps  and  sidewalk.  The 
cook  will  care  for  all  the  lower  part  of  the  house,  her  own 
room,  the  cellar,  and  the  back  steps  and  stoop.  The  wash- 
ing and  ironing  must  b"  divided  between  them.    It  is  usual 


30       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

to  have  the  cook  do  the  plain  washing  and  ironing,  while 
the  second  girl  takes  the  starched  clothes.  If,  however, 
the  second  girl  be  required  to  do  plain  sewing,  the  cook 
does  the  heavier  part  of  the  washing. 

In  the  matter  of  the  duties  of  a  servant  each  housekeeper 
must  make  her  own  laws,  but  the  more  servants  there  are, 
the  more  clearly  must  each  one's  responsibility  be  defined, 
and  the  mistress  will  save  herself  an  immense  amount  of 
annoyance  if  she  will  take  pains  to  divide  the  work  of  the 
household  with  good  judgment  and  with  justice,  not  allow- 
ing any  dictation  in  the  matter.  She  should  not  be  hasty 
in  reaching  a  conclusion,  but  should  be  firm  in  her  de- 
cisions. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY. 

Proper  Management  of  Fires. 

ONE  of  the  first  things  a  young  housekeeper  must  mas- 
ter is  the  science  of  managing  fires.  Now,  a  coal 
fire  is  like  some  people  :  it  will  stand  a  certain  amount  of 
nagging,  pressure,  and  neglect,  but  it  will  make  you  suffer 
in  some  way  for  all  your  abuse.  On  the  other  hand,  with 
uniformly  fair  treatment,  it  will  repay  a  hundred-fold  in 
comfort. 

The  demands  upon  the  kitchen  fire  are  varied.  Some- 
times we  want  a  very  hot  oven  or  surface,  and  again  we 
must  have  only  a  moderate  amount  of  heat.  The  degrees 
of  heat  must  be  regulated  by  the  various  checks  and 
draughts  in  the  range,  rather  than  by  the  use  of  a  greater 
or  less  amount  of  coal.  In  the  morning  remove  all  the 
ashes  and  cinders.  Put  the  shavings  or  paper  on  the  grate 
loosely,  and  then  put  in  the  kindling  wood,  crossing  the 
pieces,  that  there  may  be  a  free  circulation  of  air.  Open  all 
the  draughts  and  light  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  wood  begins 
to  burn,  put  on  some  coal.  Let  the  fire  burn  for  ten  min- 
utes ;  then  shut  all  the  dampers,  but  keep  open  the  draught 
in  front  of  the  fire.  When  the  coal  begins  to  burn  well,  add 
enough  fresh  fuel  to  come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  lining  of 
the  fire-box.  Keep  the  front  draught  open  until  all  the  coal 
has  become  ignited,  but  not  until  it  becomes  red-hot.  Now 
close  the  front  draughts,  and  the  fire  will  be  hot  enough  for 
anything  you  may  want  to  do  for  hours  to  come.  Should 
you  want  only  a  moderate  heat,  there  are  checks  with  all 


32       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

modern  ranges  which  enable  you  to  make  the  combustion 
very  slow.  If  greater  heat  be  wanted,  open  the  draughts, 
and  in  ten  minutes  you  will  have  a  glowing  fire. 

These  are  the  great  secrets  of  always  having  a  good  fire 
when  you  want  it :  Do  not  let  the  coal  burn  to  a  white 
heat ;  when  you  do  not  require  a  hot  fire,  open  all  the 
checks  ;  when  you  want  a  hot  fire,  close  the  checks  and 
open  the  draughts  ;  and,  of  course,  the  moment  there  is 
no  further  need  of  a  hot  fire,  close  the  draughts  and  open 
the  checks  again.  A  fire  built  and  managed  in  this  man- 
ner can  be  used  constantly  for  four  or  five  hours. 

Points  about  the  Furnace  Fire. 

The  furnace  fire  should  be  shaken  down  and  raked  per- 
fectly clear  in  the  morning.  A  few  shovelfuls  of  coal  should 
be  put  on,  and  all  the  draughts  opened.  The  ashes  should 
then  be  taken  up.  As  soon  as  the  coal  begins  to  burn  well 
and  the  fire  looks  clear  at  the  bottom,  put  in  enough  coal  to 
come  almost  to  the  top  of  the  fire-pot.  Keep  the  draughts 
open  until  all  the  gas  has  burned  or! ;  then  close  them,  and 
later,  if  the  fire  be  too  hot,  open  the  checks.  Except  in 
extremely  cold  weather,  this  is  all  the  attention  that  ought 
to  be  necessary  through  the  day.  The  fire  must  be  raked 
down  and  fresh  coal  or  cinders  put  on  in  the  evening,  but 
a  small  amount  of  coal  will  answer  for  the  night,  unless  the 
draughts  have  been  open  the  greater  part  of  the  day. 

On  an  extremely  cold  day  it  may  be  necessary  to  have 
the  draughts  open  a  part  of  the  time,  and  some  coal  put  on 
at  noon. 

All  the  clinkers  should  be  removed  when  the  fire  is  raked 
down  in  the  morning.  The  water  pan  should  be  replen- 
ished at  least  once  a  day.  Some  careless  people  leave  the 
ashes  for  a  day  at  a  time  at  the  bottom  of  the  furnace,  where 
they  absorb  the  heat,  robbing  the  house  of  its  share. 

If  the  furnace  fire  be  allowed  to  burn  to  a  white  heat  it 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY. 


33 


will  be  ruined  for  that  day,  unless  more  coal  be  put  on  a 
little  later.  The  cold-air  boxes  must  admit  enough  air  to 
drive  the  hot  air  through  the  house,  but  not  more  than  can 
be  heated. 

Heating  stoves  and  open  grates  are  to  be  managed  as  far 
as  possible  the  same  as  a  furnace.  With  the  stove  there  is 
no  trouble,  there  being  plenty  of  checks  and  draughts.  The 
open  grate  is  not  so  well  provided. 

Keeping  the  Refrigerator  Sweet. 

Few  duties  are  more  important  than  that  of  keeping  the 
refrigerator  in  perfect  condition.  If  the  lining  be  broken 
in  any  part,  so  that  the  water  soaks  into  the  wood,  attend 
to  the  relining  at  once  ;  or,  if  the  refrigerator  be  not  worth 
that,  discard  it  wholly.  Never  have  the  waste-pipe  con- 
nected with  the  plumbing  in  the  house. 

Have  the  refrigerator  placed  where  it  can  be  flooded  with 
air  and  light  whenever  necessary,  but,  of  course,  in  as  cool  a 
place  as  possible.  Once  a  week  have  everything  removed 
from  it.  Take  out  the  shelves  and  wash  them  in  hot  soap- 
suds ;  then  pour  boiling  water  over  them.  Place  them  in 
the  sun  ;  or,  if  that  fails,  by  the  range,  that  they  may  be  per- 
fectly dried.  Now  take  out  the  ice  rack  and  wash  and  scald 
in  the  same  way,  except  that,  as  there  are  grooves  or  wires 
in  this,  the  greatest  care  must  be  used  to  get  out  every  par- 
ticle of  dirt  that  may  have  lodged  there.  Next  wash  out 
the  ice  compartment,  running  a  flexible  wire  rod  down  the 
waste-pipe,  that  nothing  shall  lodge  there.  Put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  washing  soda  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and 
set  on  the  fire.  When  this  boils,  pour  it  into  the  ice  compart- 
ment ;  follow  this  with  a  kettleful  of  boiling  water,  and  wipe 
dry.  Now  wash  the  other  parts  of  the  refrigerator  with  hot 
soap-suds,  and  wipe  perfectly  dry.  Be  careful  to  get  the 
doors  and  ledges  clean  and  dry.  Leave  the  refrigerator 
open  for  an  hour,  and  then  return  the  ice  and  food  to  it 

3 


34 


MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Plan  this  work  for  a  day  when  the  iceman  is  due.  The 
work  should  be  done  immediately  after  breakfast,  so  that 
the  refrigerator  shall  be  ready  when  the  ice  comes. 

Should  you,  after  this  care,  still  have  trouble,  do  not  use 
the  refrigerator.  It  will  be  far  better  to  get  along  without  the 
comfort  it  affords  than  to  endanger  health  and  life  by  using 
a  contaminated  article.  Food  never  should  be  put  in  a 
refrigerator  while  warm,  because  it  absorbs  the  flavors  of 
other  food  and  also  heats  the  refrigerator. 

Getting  the  Greatest  Good  out  of  Lamps. 

In  these  days,  when  lamps  are  used  so  much,  the  care  of 
them  is  quite  an  important  matter.  If  the  lamps  be  good 
and  have  proper  attention,  one  cannot  wish  for  a  more  satis- 
factory light ;  but  if  badly  cared  for,  they  will  be  a  source  of 
much  discomfort.  The  great  secret  of  having  lamps  in  good 
working  order  is  to  keep  them  clean  and  to  use  good  oil. 
Have  a  regular  place  and  time  for  trimming  the  lamps. 
Put  a  folded  newspaper  on  the  table,  so  that  any  stray  bits 
of  burned  wick  and  drops  of  oil  may  fall  upon  it.  Wash 
and  wipe  the  chimneys  and  shades.  Now  take  off  all  loose 
parts  of  the  burner,  washing  them  in  hot  soap-suds  and 
wiping  them  with  a  clean  soft  cloth.  Trim  the  wicks  and 
turn  them  quite  low.  With  a  soft,  wet  cloth,  well  soaped, 
wipe  the  burner  thoroughly,  working  the  cloth  as  much  as 
possible  inside  the  burner,  to  get  off  every  particle  of  the 
charred  wick.  Now  fill  the  lamps  within  about  one  inch 
of  the  top,  and  wipe  with  a  damp  towel  and  then  a  dry  one. 
Adjust  all  the  parts  and  return  them  to  their  proper  places. 

Whenever  a  new  wick  is  required  in  a  lamp,  wash  and 
scald  the  burner  before  putting  in  the  wick.  With  a  stu- 
dent lamp,  the  receptacle  for  waste  oil,  which  is  screwed  on 
the  bottom  of  the  burner,  should  be  taken  off  at  least  once 
a  week  and  washed.  Sometimes  a  wick  will  get  very  dark 
and  dirty  before  it  is  half  consumed.    It  is  not  economy  to 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY. 


35 


try  to  burn  it ;  replace  it  with  a  fresh  one.  The  trouble  and 
expense  are  slight,  and  the  increase  in  clearness  and  bril- 
liancy will  repay  the  extra  care.  When  a  lamp  is  lighted, 
it  should  not  at  once  be  turned  up  to  the  full  height ;  wait 
until  the  chimney  is  heated.  Beautiful  shades  are  often 
cracked  or  broken  by  having  the  hot  chimneys  rest  against 
them.  Now,  when  lighting  a  lamp  be  careful  that  the  chim- 
ney is  set  perfectly  straight,  and  does  not  touch  the  shade 
at  any  point.  The  shade  should  be  put  in  place  as  soon  as 
the  lamp  is  lighted,  that  it  may  heat  gradually, 

Take  Good  Care  of  the  Plumbing. 

The  care  of  the  plumbing  is  an  important  duty ;  yet, 
provided  there  be  nothing  wrong  about  the  plumbing  at 
the  start,  and  the  supply  of  water  be  constant  and  generous, 
this  duty  will  not  be  found  a  hard  one.  The  housekeeper 
should  impress  upon  the  younger  members  of  her  family 
the  importance  of  thoroughly  flushing  the  water-closets. 
She  should  at  least  once  a  day  personally  see  to  it  that 
there  is  sufficient  flushing.  The  best  time  for  this  is  after 
the  morning  work  is  done. 

The  laundry  tubs  should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  after  wash- 
ing. Be  free  with  the  water,  that  no  trace  of  suds  shall 
be  left  in  the  pipes. 

After  the  midday  work  is  done,  and  again  at  night,  the 
pipe  in  the  kitchen  sink  should  be  thoroughly  flushed  with 
hot  water,  if  possible.  In  case  there  be  no  hot  water,  be 
generous  with  the  cold.  Once  a  week  put  half  a  pint  of 
washing  soda  in  an  old  saucepan,  and  add  six  quarts  of 
hot  water.  Place  on  the  fire  until  the  soda  is  all  dissolved  ; 
then  pour  the  water  into  the  pipes,  reserving  two  quarts  of 
it  for  the  kitchen  sink. 

Have  an  old  funnel  to  use  in  the  bath-tub  and  basins, 
that  the  hot  soda  shall  not  touch  any  of  the  metal  save  that 
in  the  pipes. 


36 


MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Particles  of  grease  sometimes  lodge  in  the  sink-pipe  and 
cause  an  unpleasant  odor.  The  hot  soda  dissolves  this 
grease  and  carries  it  away, 

Copperas  will  remove  odors  from  drain-pipes.  Put  one 
pound  of  the  crystals  in  a  quart  bottle  and  fill  up  with  cold 
water.  Cork  tightly  and  label,  writing  "  Poison  "  on  the 
label.  Pour  a  little  of  this  into  the  pipes  whenever  there 
is  any  odor. 

If  thorough  flushing  and  an  occasional  use  of  the  hot 
soda  will  not  keep  the  pipes  sweet,  there  is  something 
wrong  with  the  plumbing,  and  it  should  be  attended  to  at 
once. 

It  seems  as  if  one  need  not  caution  people  in  regard  to 
throwing  into  either  water-closet  or  basin  anything  that 
may  clog  the  pipes,  but  it  is  because  of  ignorance  or  care- 
lessness on  the  part  of  the  people  who  use  these  con- 
veniences that  much  of  the  trouble  with  the  pipes  arises. 
Here  are  some  of  the  things  that  should  never  have  a 
chance  to  get  into  the  pipes  :  hair,  lint,  pieces  of  rags,  no 
matter  how  small ;  matches,  fruit  peelings,  etc. 

If  for  any  reason  there  should  be  a  bad  odor  from  the 
drain,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  carbolic  acid,  mixed  with  a 
cupful  of  cold  water  and  poured  into  the  pipes,  will  prove 
a  good  disinfectant.  A  small  bottle  of  carbolic  acid, 
plainly  labelled,  always  should  be  kept  in  the  house,  out 
of  the  reach  of  the  children. 

About  the  Bath-room. 

The  bath-room  should  have  special  attention  daily,  and 
once  a  week  a  thorough  cleaning.  A  woollen  carpet  is  not 
desirable  for  this  room.  The  floor  may  be  of  tiles,  or  of 
hard  wood,  stained  or  painted,  or  be  covered  with  lignum 
or  oil-cloth.  Of  course,  there  must  be  a  rug  or  two.  The 
Japanese  cotton  rug  is  cheap  and  pretty  for  this  purpose ; 
or,  one  can  make  rugs  from  pieces  of  carpet. 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY.  37 

Not  only  should  the  wash-basin  be  washed  clean  and  the 
bowl  in  the  water-closet  washed  every  day,  but,  if  the  bath- 
tub has  been  used,  this  too  should  be  washed  and  carefully 
wiped  dry.  Dust  the  room,  and  hang  the  soiled  towels 
where  they  will  dry  before  being  put  in  the  hamper  pro- 
vided for  such  things. 

Once  a  week  give  the  room  a  thorough  cleaning.  Wash 
the  toilet  articles.  Wash  all  the  marble  with  soap  and 
water,  and  if  there  be  any  spots  that  are  not  easily  removed, 
put  a  little  sand  soap  on  the  wash-cloth  and  rub  the  spot 
well.  The  bowl  in  the  water-closet  should  have  a  good 
scrubbing  with  sand  soap.  Rub  the  bath-tub  with  whiting, 
wet  with  household  ammonia,  and  then  wash  it  with  plenty 
of  hot  water  and  wipe  dry. 

Never  use  for  the  bath-tub  sand  soap,  or  any  substance 
that  would  scratch,  unless  it  be  an  enamel  tub,  in  which 
case  no  harm  will  be  done.  Clean  the  faucets  with  whit- 
ing. Take  a  long-handled  boot-buttoner  and  draw  from 
the  waste-pipes  all  the  bits  of  lint  that  have  gathered  there. 
Dust  the  room  and  wash  the  floor,  wiping  very  dry.  Now 
lay  down  the  rugs,  which  already  should  have  been  well 
beaten  and  aired. 

Do  not  Neglect  the  Garbage  Barrel. 

The  garbage  barrel  or  tub  should  be  thoroughly  washed 
once  a  week.  In  summer,  after  the  barrel  has  been  cleaned, 
sprinkle  into  it  one  teaspoonful  of  carbolic  acid  mixed  with 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  This  will  keep  the  barrel  free 
from  offensive  odors  even  in  the  hottest  weather. 


33 


MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


AV ASHING  DISHES. 

Sort  the  dishes  and  scrape  them  free  from  fragments. 
Have  two  pans,  one  for  washing  and  the  other  for  rinsing. 
Have  also  a  large  tray  on  which  to  drain  the  dishes.  Wash 
the  glassware  first 

Proper  Care  of  Glassware. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  even  a  scratch  on  the  sur- 
face of  a  piece  of  glass  often  will  cause  it  to  break  at  that 
point  under  the  slightest  shock  ;  therefore,  it  is  essential  that 
it  shall  not  come  in  contact  with  a  sharp,  hard  substance. 
A  grain  of  sand  on  the  bottom  of  the  dishpan,  or  on  the 
cloth  with  which  the  article  is  washed  or  wiped,  may  be 
the  means  of  breaking  a  valuable  dish.  When  possible,  a 
wooden  or  paper  tub  should  be  used  in  washing  glass.  A 
soft  silver-brush,  soft  cloths  for  washing,  and  soft  linen 
towels  for  wiping,  also  are  necessary.  Have  the  water  cool 
enough  to  bear  the  hand  in  comfortably.  Make  a  strong 
suds  with  hard  soap.  The  second  dish  of  water  should  be 
of  the  same  temperature.  Wash  each  piece  carefully,  rub- 
bing with  the  soft  cloth  ;  then  put  in  the  rinsing  water. 
When  four  or  five  pieces  have  been  washed,  spread  a  coarse 
towel  on  an  old  tray,  and  place  the  glass  on  this  to  drain. 
Wipe  the  hands  dry,  and  then  wipe  the  pieces  of  glass  with 
a  perfectly  clean,  dry  towel.  Rub  gently,  to  polish.  Hold 
the  glass  up  to  the  light,  to  see  if  it  is  perfectly  clear,  then 
place  on  a  clean  tray.  Always  keep  the  towel  between  the 
hands  and  the  glass,  and  as  soon  as  the  towel  becomes 
damp  change  it  for  a  dry  one.  The  glass  should  not  drain 
long  enough  to  become  cold  ;  for  this  reason  it  is  best  to 
wash  only  a  few  pieces  at  a  time.  If  the  glass  be  cut,  or  an 
imitation  of  cut,  use  the  soft  silver-brush  to  cleanse  all  the 
grooves.    As  it  is  almost  impossible  to  get  the  deeply  cut 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY.  39 


glass  perfectly  dry,  it  should  not  be  placed  at  once  on  a 
polished-wood  surface.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  soft 
cloth  on  which  to  place  cut  pieces  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
after  they  have  been  wiped.  Glass  that  is  ornamented  with 
gold  must  be  treated  with  great  care,  to  prevent  the  orna- 
mentation from  wearing  off.  Use  only  castiie  soap,  and  do 
not  have  the  suds  strong.  Wash  one  piece  at  a  time,  and 
wipe  immediately. 

It  will  be  seen  by  the  foregoing  that  the  care  of  glass  can 
be  summed  up  in  a  few  words  :  wash  in  clean  warm  suds 
and  wipe  perfectly  dry,  using  clean  dry  linen  towels ;  be 
careful  not  to  scratch  nor  hit  a  piece  of  glass,  and  do  not 
expose  the  surface  to  sudden  heat  or  cold. 

Other  Dishes  and  Utensils. 

After  the  glass  the  silver  should  be  washed  and  wiped. 
Next  wash  the  china  in  hot  suds,  and  then  rinse  in  the 
second  pan  of  hot  water.  Drain  on  the  tray,  and  wipe 
while  yet  warm.  The  kitchen  crockery  should  follow  the 
china,  then  the  tins,  and  finally  the  iron  cooking  dishes. 
Change  the  dish-water  often,  having  the  first  water  very 
soapy  and  the  rinsing  water  hot.  Be  as  careful  to  have 
clean  water  and  clean  dry  towels  for  the  pots  and  kettles  as 
for  the  china,  and  wash  in  the  same  way  as  a  piece  of  china, 
having  the  outside  as  clean  as  the  inside.  Some  kind  of 
sand  soap  or  mineral  soap  is  necessary  to  keep  the  tins, 
granite-ware,  and  iron  saucepans  perfectly  clean  and  bright. 
After  wiping  such  utensils  with  a  dry  towel,  place  them  on 
the  hearth,  to  become  perfectly  dry,  as  they  rust  easily  and 
quickly. 

Now  rub  the  steel  knives  with  either  Bristol  brick,  wood 
ashes,  or  sand  soap.  Wash  them,  and  wipe  perfectly  dry. 
Next  wash  the  tray,  the  rinsing  pan,  the  table,  and  the  sink. 
Finally  wash  the  dish- towels,  and  then  the  dishpans. 


40       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Some  Special  Cautions. 

Pitchers,  bowls,  pans,  and  other  utensils  used  for  milk, 
should  have  cold  water  stand  in  them  for  half  an  hour  or 
so,  then  be  washed  in  plenty  of  clean  soapy  water.  After 
this  they  should  be  scalded  with  boiling  water,  wiped  dry, 
and  placed  in  the  sun  and  open  air,  if  possible,  for  several 
hours. 

Teapots,  coffee-pots,  chocolate-pots,  and  the  like,  should 
be  washed  in  hot  soapy  wrater  and  be  rinsed  in  boiling  water. 
Use  a  wooden  skewer  to  remove  every  particle  of  sediment 
that  may  lodge  in  the  spouts  or  creases  of  the  pots.  Wipe 
perfectly  dry,  and  expose  to  the  sun  and  air,  if  possible,  for 
an  hour  or  more. 

Pans  in  which  fish  or  onions  have  been  cooked,  should 
be  washed  and  scalded  ;  then  they  should  be  filled  with 
water,  in  which  should  be  put  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  for 
every  two  quarts  of  water.  Place  them  on  top  of  the  stove 
for  half  an  hour  or  more.  This  will  insure  the  removal  of 
the  flavor  of  fish  or  onions. 

Care  of  Silver. 

Silver  that  is  properly  washed  and  wiped  every  day  will 
require  very  little  extra  cleaning.  Remove  it  from  the  table 
on  a  tray  and  then  put  it  into  a  wide-mouthed  kitchen  pitcher 
containing  warm  water.  When  ready  to  wash  it,  have  a  pan 
of  hot  soap-suds  and  a  clean  soft  dish-cloth.  Put  all  the 
silver,  except  the  knives,  into  the  suds,  and  wash  a  few 
pieces  at  a  time,  rubbing  well  with  the  cloth.  Wipe  the 
silver,  while  it  is  still  warm,  with  a  fine  soft  silver-towel, 
rubbing  it  until  perfectly  dry  and  bright.  Always  keep  the 
towel  between  the  hands  and  the  silver.  As  fast  as  a  piece 
is  finished  lay  it  on  the  tray,  and  when  all  the  work  is  done 
wipe  the  hands  perfectly  dry,  and  then  put  the  silver  away. 

Should  there  be  any  tarnish  on  any  of  the  pieces,  rub  with 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EABLIr .  41 

a  little  wet  whiting  and  a  piece  of  chamois  skin.  Wash 
again  in  the  hot  suds,  and  wipe. 

When  the  silver  is  to  have  a  regular  cleaning,  put  it  in 
a  pan  of  hot  suds  and  wash  well.  Spread  several  thick- 
nesses of  paper  on  the  table.  Have  at  hand  a  saucer  of 
French  whiting,  finely  powdered  and  sifted.  Wet  a  little 
of  this  with  water,  unless  the  silver  is  very  much  tarnished, 
in  which  case  use  half  water  and  half  alcohol ;  or,  instead 
of  the  alcohol,  half  household  ammonia.  Rub  the  article 
with  this  and  then  with  dry  whiting  and  a  chamois  skin, 
finally  using  a  soft  silver-brush  to  clean  out  all  the  chasing 
and  creases.  When  all  the  silver  has  been  cleaned  in  this 
manner,  wash  it  in  clean  hot  suds,  wipe  on  a  towel  kept  for 
silver,  and  put  away. 

Do  not  put  silver  in  woollen  bags,  as  the  sulphur  in  this 
cloth  tarnishes  the  metal.  Rubber  should  not  be  placed 
near  silver. 

Only  substances  which  are  well  known  have  been  suggested 
for  the  cleaning  of  the  various  articles  of  silver.  There  are 
preparations  in  the  market  which  many  housekeepers  use 
because  they  consider  them  harmless,  and  great  savers  of 
labor.    Each  one  will  decide  for  herself  in  these  matters- 

Do  not  Slight  the  Knife  Blades. 

In  nearly  all  cases  the  blade  of  the  knife  requires  different 
treatment  from  the  handle.  If  it  be  of  unplated  steel  it  must 
be  thoroughly  polished  every  time  it  is  used.  If  it  be  of 
silver,  or  be  silver-plated,  a  careful  washing  with  soap  and 
water,  and  a  thorough  drying,  will  be  all  the  daily  care  that 
is  required,  —  a  thorough  cleaning  about  once  a  week  suf- 
ficing to  keep  the  blade  perfectly  clean.  There  should 
be  a  knife-board  for  the  steel  knives.  Boards  covered  with 
leather  that  come  for  this  purpose  may  be  purchased  at 
any  first-class  kitchen  furnishing  store. 

To  clean  the  knives  have  at  hand  a  pan  of  clean,  soapy 


42  MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 

water  and  a  soft  cloth.  Hold  the  knives  in  the  left  hand 
and  wash  the  blades  with  the  cloth,  only  wiping  the  handles 
with  the  wet  cloth,  unless  they  be  silver,  in  which  case  wash 
them  thoroughly  with  the  soap-suds  and  cloth.  Sprinkle  the 
board  with  some  knife-polish.  Hold  the  blade  flat  on  the 
board  and  rub  back  and  forth  until  it  is  polished.  If  the 
stain  be  hard  to  remove,  dip  a  cork  in  the  strong  soap-suds, 
then  in  the  polishing  powder,  and,  laying  the  blade  of  the 
knife  perfectly  flat  on  the  board,  rub  with  the  cork  until  the 
stain  disappears.  Now  wipe  the  polish  off  with  a  soft  cloth 
and  rub  the  blade  with  a  piece  of  chamois  skin.  The  handles 
of  the  knives  should  be  protected  while  the  blades  are  being 
polished.  Have  a  long,  narrow  bag  of  Canton  flannel  to 
slip  over  the  handle  while  the  blade  is  being  rubbed. 

Rust  and  Other  Annoyances. 

If  it  should  happen  that  the  steel  of  knives  or  forks 
becomes  rusted,  dip  them  in  sweet  oil  and  let  them  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours,  then  rub  them  with  powdered  quicklime, 
and  the  stain  will  be  removed.  If  the  handles  of  the  knives 
be  ivory,  and  they  become  stained,  rub  them  with  whiting 
and  spirits  of  turpentine.  This  will  remove  all  ordinary 
stains.  Still,  the  appearance  of  the  ivory  will  be  greatly 
improved  by  a  vigorous  rubbing  with  the  whiting  and  tur- 
pentine. Frequent  wettings  with  hot  water  and  soap  will 
dull  the  mother-of-pearl  handles,  which  should  be  wiped 
with  a  damp  cloth  and  rubbed  dry  with  a  soft  towel.  Silver 
handles  should  be  rubbed  frequently  with  whiting.  Cellu- 
loid, ivorine,  bone,  etc.,  require  the  same  general  treatment 
as  ivory  and  pearl.  The  handles  of  knives,  no  matter  what 
the  material,  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  in  water. 
The  water,  particularly  if  it  be  hot,  loosens  the  handles  from 
the  tang,  and  also  dulls  them.  A  tin  or  granite-ware  pail  or 
pitcher  should  be  kept  exclusively  for  knives.  When  used, 
it  should  have  some  water  in  it,  but  not  enough  to  come  up 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY.  43 

to  the  handle  of  the  knife.  As  soon  as  the  table  is  cleared 
the  knives  should  be  put  in  this,  to  remain  until  the  time 
for  washing  them. 

If  you  have  no  regular  case  for  the  knives,  they  may  be 
kept  in  one  made  of  Canton  flannel.  To  make  this  take  a 
piece  of  flannel  about  three  quarters  of  a  yard  wide  and  cut 
off  twenty-one  inches.  Fold  over  eleven  and  a  half  inches 
of  the  selvage  end,  leaving  a  single  thickness  of  about  four 
inches  at  the  other  end.  Baste  the  doubled  part  together  ; 
then  stitch  it  into  twelve  compartments.  Bind  the  bag  with 
tape,  and  sew  tapes  on  the  single  flap  at  the  centre.  Of 
course,  the  flannel  is  on  the  inside.  When  steel  cutlery  is 
to  be  put  away  for  any  length  of  time,  melt  pure  mutton  suet, 
and  dip  the  steel  part  of  the  knives  and  forks  in  it.  When 
cool,  wrap  in  tissue  paper,  and  then  in  thicker  paper  or 
Canton  flannel. 


CHAPTER  V. 


WORK  ON  WASHING  DAY. 

ON  washing  day  arrange  the  white  clothes  in  this  man- 
ner :  Half  fill  two  tubs  with  warm  suds.  Put  in  one 
tub  the  pieces  soiled  the  most ;  put  the  remainder  of  the 
articles  in  the  second  tub.  Have  a  third  tub  half  full  of 
warm  water  and  the  wash  boiler  half  full  of  cold  water. 
Wash  the  cleaner  clothes  first,  rubbing  soap  on  the  parts 
which  are  soiled  the  most.  Wring  from  this  water  and  drop 
into  the  tub  of  clean  warm  water.  When  all  are  done,  rinse 
the  clothes  well  in  the  warm  water  ;  then  wring  out  and  soap 
the  parts  that  were  badly  soiled.  Put  these  same  pieces  in 
the  boiler  of  cold  water  and  set  on  the  fire.  Let  the  water 
get  almost  boiling  hot ;  then  take  up  the  clothes  and  put 
them  in  a  tubful  of  cold  water.  Rinse  them  from  this  into 
another  of  warm  water  and  from  this  into  a  third  of  bluing 
water.  Wring  them  as  dry  as  possible  ;  then  shake  them 
out  and  hang  on  the  lines.  They  should  become  per- 
fectly dry  before  they  are  folded.  All  the  white  clothing 
should  be  washed  in  this  manner.  The  second  tubful  can, 
of  course,  be  rubbed  out  and  rinsed  while  the  first  is  being 
scalded.  If  clothes  be  not  thoroughly  rinsed  and  bluing  be 
used,  the  soap  will  combine  with  the  bluing  to  give  a  yellow 
tinge  to  the  clothing.  This  is  especially  the  case  when  liquid 
bluing  is  used.  A  thorough  rinsing  is  really  one  of  the  most 
important  steps  in  all  the  work. 

Satines,  Ginghams,  and  Prints. 

These  kinds  of  goods  look  better  when  no  soap  is  used 
and  they  are  not  starched  in  the  usual  way.     For  two 


WORK  ON  WASHING  DAY. 


45 


dresses  make  one  gallon  of  starch  by  mixing  one  cupful  of 
flour  with  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Pour  on  this  three  quarts 
and  a  half  of  boiling  water.  Pour  half  of  this  mixture  into 
a  tub  containing  four  gallons  of  warm  water.  Wash  one  of 
the  dresses  in  this,  rubbing  the  fabric  the  same  as  if  soap 
were  used.  Now  rinse  in  two  clean  waters  and  hang  out  to 
dry.  The  starch  cleans  the  fabric,  and  enough  is  held  in 
the  cloth  to  make  it  about  as  stiff  as  when  new.  Wash  the 
second  dress  in  the  same  way.  This  method  is  not  for  light 
cambrics,  but  only  for  satines,  ginghams,  and  dark  prints. 

If  the  colors  run,  put  half  a  cupful  of  salt  in  the  second 
rinsing  water.  If  the  color  of  the  fabric  be  blue  and  faded, 
put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  acetic  acid,  or  twice  as  much  vine- 
gar, into  the  last  rinsing  water.  This  will  often  restore  the 
color,  but  not  always,  as  it  depends  upon  the  chemicals  used 
in  the  dyeing.  The  acid  can  be  used  in  the  last  water  in 
which  faded  blue  flannels  are  rinsed.  Colored  goods  should 
be  dried  thoroughly  and  dampened  only  a  few  hours  before 
you  are  ready  to  iron  them.  They  should  be  ironed  on  the 
wrong  side. 

How  Flannels  should  be  Washed. 

Have  a  tub  half  full  of  strong  soap  suds,  in  which  has 
been  dissolved  a  tablespoonful  of  borax.  Shake  all  the 
dust  and  lint  from  the  flannels,  and  then  put  them  into  the 
suds.  Wash  them  by  rubbing  with  the  hands  and  sopping 
them  up  and  down  in  the  water.  Wring  them  out  of  this 
water  and  put  them  into  a  tub  of  clean  hot  water.  Rinse 
thoroughly  in  this  water,  then  in  a  second  tubful.  Wring 
dry,  shake  well,  and  hang  on  the  lines.  When  nearly  dry, 
take  them  in  and  fold,  rolling  them  very  tightly.  Wrap 
a  clean  cloth  around  them,  and,  if  possible,  iron  the  same 
day.  Do  not  have  the  irons  very  hot,  but  press  the  flannels 
well.  Have  clean  suds  for  the  colored  flannels.  To  pre- 
vent shrinking,  the  temperature  of  the  water  should  be  the 
same  in  all  the  tubs. 


46       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Never  use  yellow  soap  for  washing  flannel,  and  never  rub 
any  other  kind  of  soap  upon  the  cloth. 

To  wash  blankets,  make  strong  suds  with  some  white 
soap.  To  every  three  gallons  of  water  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  powdered  borax.  Have  the  suds  as  hot  as  the  hands  will 
bear  comfortably.  Shake  the  blankets,  and,  if  the  bindings 
be  of  colored  silk,  rip  them  off.  Put  the  blankets  in  the  hot 
suds  and  sop  them  up  and  down  until  the  suds  show  that 
the  dirt  has  been  removed.  If  there  be  any  stains  on  the 
blankets,  rub  the  spots  well  between  the  hands,  but  remem- 
ber the  caution  not  to  rub  soap  on  such  goods.  Have  a  tub 
half  full  of  clear  water  as  hot  as  the  suds.  After  squeezing 
the  suds  from  the  blankets,  put  them  in  the  rinsing  water. 
Sop  them  well  in  this,  and  then  squeeze  out  the  water ; 
finally  rinse  in  a  tub  of  bluing  water,  having  the  temper- 
ature still  as  hot  as  the  suds.  Press  all  the  water  possible 
from  the  blankets  and  hang  them  on  the  lines  to  dry,  shak- 
ing out  all  the  wrinkles.  When  dry,  fold  smoothly  and  lay 
on  a  clean  board.  Put  another  board  on  top,  and  on  this 
place  some  heavy  weights.  In  a  day  or  two  the  blankets 
will  be  pressed. 

Wash  only  two  blankets  at  a  time,  and  select  a  clear  day 
for  this  work,  —  a  windy  day,  if  possible. 

The  Right  Way  to  Wash  Silk  Undergarments. 

To  three  gallons  of  warm  water  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  household  ammonia.  Let  the  silk  garments  soak  in  this 
for  twenty  minutes ;  then  rub  soap  on  the  parts  which  are 
the  most  badly  soiled,  and  wash  the  articles  with  the  hands. 
Never  rub  them  on  a  board.  Rinse  in  two  waters,  wring 
dry,  and  hang  on  the  line.  When  nearly  dry,  take  in  and 
fold,  and,  if  possible,  iron  within  a  few  hours.  Never  let 
an  iron  come  in  contact  with  the  silk ;  lay  a  piece  of  cloth 
over  the  fabric,  and  iron  on  that. 

The  ammonia  may  be  omitted,  and  the  silk  garments  be 


WORK  ON  WASHING  DAY. 


47 


washed  in  strong  suds  made  with  white  castile  soap  and 
warm  water. 

How  to  Launder  Washable  Curtains. 

There  are  many  inexpensive  cotton  or  cotton  and  silk 
fabrics  used  for  curtains  which  launder  very  well  if  treated 
properly.  Shake  out  all  the  dust.  Make  weak  suds  with 
white  castile  soap.  Wash  the  curtains  in  this,  and  rinse 
them  in  two  waters  \  then  wring  dry.  Next  dip  them  in  a 
preparation  made  as  follows  :  Soak  half  an  ounce  of  isin- 
glass in  one  quart  of  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Steep 
one  ounce  of  saffron  on  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of  hot  water 
for  two  hours.  Stir  the  soaked  isinglass  and  half  an  ounce 
of  alum  into  this,  and  then  strain  into  a  bowl.  Put  one 
fourth  of  this  mixture  into  another  large  bowl,  and  dip  one 
curtain  into  it,  sopping  it  well,  that  the  color  and  stiffening 
may  be  equally  distributed.  Shake  out  and  hang  on  the 
line  to  dry. 

When  the  curtains  are  dry,  sprinkle  them,  making  them 
very  damp.  Draw  out  evenly ;  then  fold,  and  roll  up  in  a 
cloth  ;  finally  iron  them,  being  careful  to  move  the  iron 
lengthwise  of  the  curtain,  and  to  get  the  fabric  very  dry. 

The  alum  and  saffron  may  be  omitted,  and  the  stiffening 
be  used  for  washable  dresses  or  thin  muslin  curtains. 

Cleaning  Lace  Curtains. 

Lace  curtains  will  not  bear  rubbing.  All  the  work  must 
be  done  carefully  and  gently.  For  two  pairs  of  curtains  half 
fill  a  large  tub  with  warm  water,  and  add  to  it  half  a  pound 
of  soap,  which  has  been  shaved  fine  and  dissolved  in  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water ;  add  also  about  a  gill  of  household 
ammonia.  Let  the  curtains  soak  in  this  over  night.  In  the 
morning  sop  them  well  in  the  water,  and  squeeze  it  all  out ; 
but  do  not  wring  the  curtains.  Put  them  into  another  tub 
of  water,  prepared  with  soap  and  ammonia,  as  on  the  night 


48  MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


before ;  sop  them  gently  in  this  water,  and  then,  after 
squeezing  out  the  water,  put  them  in  a  tub  of  clean  warm 
water.  Continue  to  rmse  them  in  fresh  tubs  of  water  until 
there  is  no  trace  of  soap  ;  next,  rinse  them  in  water  con- 
taining bluing.  After  pressing  out  all  the  water  possible, 
spread  the  curtains  over  sheets  on  the  grass  ;  or,  if  you  have 
no  grass,  put  them  on  the  clothes-line.  When  they  are  dry, 
dip  them  in  hot  thick  starch,  and  fasten  them  in  the  frame 
that  comes  for  this  purpose.  If  you  have  no  frame,  fasten  a 
sheet  on  a  mattress,  and  spread  the  curtains  on  this,  pinning 
them  in  such  a  manner  that  they  shall  be  perfectly  smooth 
and  have  all  the  pattern  of  the  border  brought  out.  Place 
in  the  sun  to  dry.  If  it  be  desired  to  have  the  curtains 
a  light  £cru  shade,  rinse  them  in  weak  coffee  ;  and  if  you 
want  a  dark  shade,  use  strong  coffee. 

If  the  curtains  be  dried  on  a  mattress  they  must  be  folded 
smoothly,  the  size  of  the  mattress.  Lace  curtains  can  be 
spread  two  or  three  thicknesses  in  the  frame. 

Points  on  Starching  and  Ironing. 

In  making  and  using  starch  have  all  the  utensils  and  the 
water  perfectly  clean.  Mix  the  dry  starch  with  cold  water 
enough  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Pour  on  this  the  required 
amount  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  while.  To  each 
quart  of  starch  add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  lard.  Boil 
the  starch  until  it  looks  clear,  which  will  be  in  about  ten 
minutes.  Strain  it  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  (it  will 
have  to  be  squeezed  through  the  cloth).  White  articles 
should  be  dipped  into  the  hot  starch,  but  have  it  cooled 
a  little  for  colored  articles.  For  collars,  cuffs,  shirts,  etc., 
have  the  starch  very  thick  ;  for  white  skirts  it  should  be 
rather  thin  ;  for  dresses,  aprons,  and  children's  clothing  also, 
the  starch  must  be  thin,  and  for  table  linen  only  the  thinnest 
kind  imaginable  should  be  used. 

Always  have  starched  clothes  thoroughly  dried ;  then 


WORK  ON  WASHING  DAY. 


49 


sprinkle  evenly  with  enough  cold  water  to  make  them  very 
damp.  Fold  smoothly  and  roll  up  in  a  clean  cloth  for 
several  hours.  In  ironing,  begin  with  the  plain  pieces,  like 
the  sheets  and  pillow  cases.  This  will  get  the  irons  in  con- 
dition for  the  starched  clothes,  which  should  be  done  next ; 
and  after  these  finish  the  plain  pieces.  Have  the  ironing 
blanket  and  sheet  spread  smoothly  on  the  table  and  tacked 
in  place,  and  have  some  fine  salt  spread  on  a  board.  Tie  a 
large  piece  of  beeswax  in  a  cloth,  and  after  rubbing  the  hot 
iron  on  the  salt,  rub  .the  beeswax  over  it.  Finally  wipe  the 
iron  on  a  clean  cloth.  This  process  will  make  the  iron 
clean  and  smooth.  Starched  clothes  must  be  made  very 
damp ;  other  articles  should  be  dampened  only  slightly. 
Starched  clothes  must  be  ironed  until  perfectly  dry.  In 
ironing,  do  the  rubbing  lengthways  when  possible,  —  that 
is,  with  the  selvage. 


A  Rule  for  Making  Hard  Soap. 


18  pounds  of  clarified  grease. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
borax. 


3  pounds  of  potash. 

4  quarts  of  cold  water. 


Put  the  fat  on  the  back  part  of  the  range,  where  it  will 
melt  slowly.  The  potash  is  put  into  a  large  earthen  or 
stone  bowl  or  jar.  Upon  this  is  poured  three  quarts  of 
cold  water,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax  is 
added.  This  mixture  is  stirred  with  a  wooden  stick  until 
the  potash  is  dissolved  ;  then  it  stands  until  cold. 

When  the  fat  is  melted  pour  it  into  a  butter  tub.  It  must 
not  be  hot  when  the  potash  is  added  ;  should  it  be,  it  must 
stand  until  so  cool  that  it  will  hardly  run  when  poured. 
When  the  potash  mixture  is  perfectly  cold  pour  it  in  a  thin 
stream  into  the  fat,  stirring  all  the  while.  When  all  has 
been  added,  continue  stirring  for  about  ten  minutes,  when 
the  soap  should  begin  to  look  thick  and  ropy.  At  this  stage 
pour  it  into  a  box,  having  it  about  three  or  four  inches  deep. 

4 


5<D       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Let  it  stand  a  few  hours  ;  then  cut  it  into  bars,  and  the  bars 
into  pieces  of  a  convenient  length  for  handling.  It  will 
still  be  soft,  and  should  not  be  removed  from  the  box  for 
at  least  two  days.    It  will  be  hard  and  white. 

If  you  attempt  to  combine  the  fat  and  potash  mixture 
while  the  latter  is  at  all  warm  it  will  take  a  long  time  to 
make  the  soap,  and  the  result  will  not  be  so  satisfactory. 
It  is  well  to  put  paper  under  the  soap  tub  and  the  bowl  in 
which  the  potash  is  prepared.  Remember  that  potash  is 
very  strong,  and  do  not  spatter  it  on  yourself  or  on  the  floor. 

This  is  a  hard  soap,  —  a  most  desirable  quality. 

Borax  Soap. 

2  pounds  of  good  white  soap. 

3  ounces  of  borax. 
2  quarts  of  water. 

Shave  the  soap  and  put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  the 
water  and  borax.  Place  on  the  fire,  and  stir  frequently  until 
the  soap  and  borax  are  dissolved  and  combined.  Pour  the 
hot  mixture  into  a  clean  butter  tub,  and  when  cold,  cover. 
This  soap  is  excellent  for  washing  flannels,  blankets,  etc. 

Soft  Soap. 

It  is  best  to  make  the  soap  a  few  weeks  before  you  wish 
to  use  it,  as  it  is  rather  hard  on  the  hands  when  new. 
Here  is  a  good  rule  for  making  the  soap  without  heating 
the  grease  :  — 

Put  fourteen  pounds  of  crude  —  not  concentrated  —  pot- 
ash in  a  wooden  pail  and  pour  over  it  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  it.  Stir  well,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  pour  this  mixture  into  a  large  kettle  and 
place  on  the  fire.  Now  add  another  pail  of  boiling  water, 
and  stir  frequently  with  a  stick  until  all  the  potash  is  dis- 
solved. Next  put  ten  quarts  of  soap  grease  in  a  water-tight 
barrel  and  gradually  pour  in  the  hot  potash.    Stir  until  all 


WORK  OX  WASHING  DAY. 


51 


the  grease  is  united  with  the  potash.  Let  this  stand  for 
three  hours ;  then  add  a  pailful  of  hot  water  and  stir  well. 
Add  another  pailful  three  hours  later.  After  this  add  a 
pailful  each  day  for  the  next  six  days,  stirring  well  with 
a  long  stick  each  time.  The  soap  should  be  stirred  every 
day  for  the  next  three  weeks,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 
Be  sure  the  potash  is  pure. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 

ONE'S  dining-room  should  be  large  enough  to  enable  a 
person  to  pass  around  the  table  comfortably  when 
the  family  or  guests  are  all  seated.  It  should  also  be  light 
and  sunny,  and  easily  heated  and  ventilated.  The  most 
essential  pieces  of  furniture  are  a  table  of  generous  width, 
capable  of  being  enlarged,  comfortable  chairs,  and  a  side- 
board. After  that,  if  the  room  be  large  enough  and  the 
purse  will  admit  of  the  purchase  of  a  cabinet  or  two,  with 
glass  fronts  and  sides,  so  much  the  better.  In  these  there 
can  be  kept  dainty  bits  of  china  and  glassware.  These 
cabinets  will  brighten  a  dining-room  more  than  anything 
else  you  can  put  into  it,  possibly  excepting  pictures.  If 
there  be  no  room  for  a  cabinet,  a  corner  cupboard  and  some 
hanging  shelves  will  be  a  great  addition.  Pictures  that  sug- 
gest pleasant  things  are,  of  course,  always  desirable.  A  few 
thrifty  ferns,  flowering  plants,  or  evergreens  add  a  great  deal 
to  the  brightness  and  beauty  of  any  room,  but  particularly 
the  dining-room.    Have  them  there  if  you  possibly  can. 

Setting  the  Table. 

The  table  should  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  room.  Cover 
it  with  a  thick  felt  or  a  double-faced  Canton  flannel  cloth. 
Over  this  spread  the  white  damask  cloth,  having  the  centre 
fold  come  exactly  in  the  centre  of  the  table.  Pass  the  hand 
over  the  cloth  to  make  it  lie  smooth.  If  there  be  a  centre- 
piece, carving,  or  tray  cloths,  or  table  mats,  have  them  lie 


IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 


53 


perfectly  straight  and  smooth  on  the  cloth.  At  each  seat 
place  on  the  right  the  knives,  spoons,  and  glasses ;  on  the 
left,  the  forks  and  napkins.  Have  the  edge  of  the  knife  to- 
ward the  plate.  Lay  the  forks  with  the  tines  up,  and  the 
spoons  with  the  bowls  up.  Have  the  spacing  between  the 
seats  regular,  and  the  space  between  the  knife  and  fork  about 
seven  inches.  Set  the  glasses  at  the  points  of  the  knives.  If 
individual  salt-cellars  and  pepper  bottles  be  used,  they  are 
to  be  placed  at  the  head  of  the  plates  ;  otherwise,  place  the 
cellars  and  bottles  at  the  corners  of  the  table.  The  table- 
spoons may  be  placed  at  the  corners  of  the  table,  or  near 
the  dishes  where  they  will  be  required  in  serving.  In  the 
centre  of  the  table  there  may  be  set  a  dish  of  flowers  or  fruit. 

These  general  directions  apply  to  the  setting  of  the  table 
for  any  meal.  Nearly  all  housekeepers  have  their  own  ideas 
about  the  arrangement  of  the  table,  thus  securing  variety 
and  individuality. 

Refinement  not  Exclusively  for  the  Rich. 

The  incomes  and  style  of  living  in  this  country  have  such 
a  wide  range  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  give  here  direc- 
tions for  the  table  service  which  would  meet  the  wants  of 
all  classes.  The  woman  of  limited  means  who  does  her 
own  work  could  not  serve  her  meals  the  same  as  one  who 
keeps  one  or  more  servants.  As  far  as  possible  she  will  so 
arrange  her  meals  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  rise  from 
the  table  more  than  once  or  twice.  Indeed,  it  is  possible 
to  have  everything  on  the  table  for  breakfast,  tea,  or 
luncheon,  but  at  dinner  time  the  meat,  vegetables,  and 
soiled  plates  should  be  removed  before  the  dessert  is  put 
on.  No  woman,  no  matter  how  simply  she  lives,  should  get 
into  a  slipshod  way  of  serving  her  meals.  The  table  can  be 
made,  and  should  be,  a  means  of  refinement  and  pleasure. 
Do  not  have  it  ceremonious,  yet  strive  for  neatness,  bright- 
ness, and  order.    No  one  has  a  right  to  mar  the  socia- 


54       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

bility  of  a  meal  by  bringing  a  gloomy  countenance  or  dis- 
agreeable subject  to  the  table.  When  the  housekeeper  has 
done  all  she  can  to  make  the  meal  suitable  and  appetizing, 
each  member  of  the  family  should  do  his  or  her  share  to 
bring  life  and  sunshine  into  the  conversation. 

The  directions  which  follow  may,  it  is  hoped,  be  helpful 
in  some  degree  to  the  young  housekeeper,  no  matter  what 
her  manner  of  living  may  be.  It  is  easy  to  omit  all  but 
one  or  two  courses,  thus  making  the  table  arrangement  and 
service  simple ;  but  the  general  principles  may  be  observed 
just  the  same. 

At  the  Breakfast  Table. 

Breakfast  being  the  plainest  meal  of  the  day,  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  table  should  always  be  simple.  The  cloth 
should  be  spotless.  At  each  person's  seat  place  a  knife, 
fork,  teaspoon  or  dessert  spoon,  tumbler,  and  napkin,  and 
if  fresh  fruit  is  to  be  served,  a  finger  bowl,  if  there  be  no 
servant.  If  you  have  a  waitress,  she  will  place  the  finger 
bowls  on  as  you  finish  with  the  fruit.  If  fresh  fruit  be 
served,  there  must  also  be  placed  at  each  seat  a  fruit  knife 
and  plate.  Have  the  dish  of  fruit  in  the  centre  of  the 
table.  Have  a  tray  cloth  at  each  end  of  the  table.  Place 
a  little  butter  plate  near  the  top  of  each  plate.  Put  four 
tablespoons  on  the  table,  either  in  two  corners,  or  beside  the 
dishes  where  they  will  be  used  in  serving.  Put  the  carving 
knife  and  fork  at  the  head  of  the  table,  and  the  cups  and 
saucers,  sugar  and  cream,  coffee-pot,  hot-water  bowl,  and 
the  mush  dishes  at  the  other  end. 

The  mistress  of  the  house  serves  the  mush,  and  when  the 
fruit  and  this  course  have  been  served,  the  dishes  are  re- 
moved and  the  hot  plates  and  other  food  brought  in  ;  the 
head  of  the  house  serving  the  hot  meats,  etc.,  while  the 
mistress  pours  the  coffee.  It  sometimes  happens  that  a 
man  of  business  lacks  time  to  serve  breakfast,  in  which  case 


IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 


55 


the  mistress  of  the  house  attends  to  that  duty.  If  there  be 
a  waitress,  she  passes  the  plates  when  they  are  ready ;  also 
the  bread,  butter,  and  coffee.  The  hostess  usually  puts  the 
sugar  and  cream  in  the  coffee,  first  asking  each  one  if  he 
will  have  these  additions.  After  all  have  been  served,  it  is 
quite  common  to  dismiss  the  waitress,  ringing  for  her  if  her 
services  be  again  required.  When  there  is  but  one  servant, 
the  family  help  each  other  after  the  breakfast  has  been 
placed  upon  the  table.  Fresh  water  is  good  for  most  peo- 
ple, and  each  person  should  be  served  with  a  tumblerful  on 
taking  a  seat  at  the  table.  If  there  be  hot  cakes  or  waffles, 
they  should  come  after  the  meats,  and  there  should  be  a 
fresh  set  of  warm  plates,  as  well  as  of  knives  and  forks. 

The  Dinner  Table. 

The  silver  required  depends  upon  the  number  of  courses 
to  be  served,  but  a  few  suggestions  may  help  one  to  decide 
what  is  proper  for  her  own  table.  The  silver  for  all  the 
courses  except  the  dessert  may  be  put  on  the  table  when 
it  is  set,  or  it  may  be  placed  there  by  the  waitress  as  needed 
for  each  course.  Dinner  plates  are  placed  on  the  table 
or  not,  when  it  is  set,  as  one  pleases.  The  silver  needed 
for  an  ordinary  course  dinner  would  be  a  small  fork  for  raw 
oysters,  tablespoon  for  soup,  fork  for  fish,  knife  and  fork  for 
meat,  and  fork  for  salad  ;  carving  knife  and  fork  at  the  head 
of  the  table,  soup  ladle  at  the  head  of  the  mistress's  plate, 
and,  if  the  dinner  be  served  from  the  table,  spoons  for 
serving. 

In  the  centre  of  the  table  set  rather  a  low  dish  contain- 
ing flowers  or  ferns.  On  each  side  of  it  place  some  small 
dishes  of  pretty  design  for  olives,  salted  almonds,  confec- 
tionery, and  such  things  ;  or  these  small  dishes  may  be  set 
in  the  corners  of  the  table.  If  the  dinner  is  to  be'  served 
on  the  table,  the  small  dishes  should  be  put  in  the  corners ; 
but  if  it  is  to  be  served  from  the  sideboard,  such  dishes 


56       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

may  be  placed  wherever  they  look  best  and  are  most  con- 
venient. Lay  the  tablespoons  in  pairs  ;  in  the  corners,  of 
course,  if  the  dinner  is  to  be  served  on  the  table.  In  the 
fold  of  each  napkin  lay  a  small  square  of  bread  or  a  small 
roll.  The  fruit  and  dishes  for  the  dessert  may  be  disposed 
on  the  sideboard.  All  the  dishes  for  a  handsome  dinner 
service  may  be  of  one  pattern,  or  for  each  course  a  different 
kind  of  china  may  be  used.  For  the  olives,  almonds,  etc., 
it  is  desirable  to  have  bits  of  cut  glass,  or  pretty  little  china 
dishes.  Such  wares  are  used  much  more  than  silver.  The 
dishes  on  which  fish,  meats,  and  entrees  are  served  may  be 
round,  oval,  square,  plain  white,  or  richly  colored  Chinese  or 
Japanese  ware.  The  plates  for  the  several  courses  are,  of 
course,  carefully  to  be  kept  hot  or  cold,  as  each  course  may 
require,  until  serving  time.  After-dinner  coffee  cups,  when 
all  are  of  different  patterns,  give  a  remarkably  pretty  effect. 
Indeed,  there  is  so ,  much  that  is  beautiful  in  table-ware 
nowadays  that  one  can  have  a  handsome  service  with 
means  either  large  or  limited. 

Luncheon  and  Tea. 

Family  luncheons  and  teas  are  rarely  served  in  courses. 
Tea,  cocoa,  or  chocolate  is,  as  a  rule,  served  at  these  meals, 
so  that  the  table  is  set  in  practically  the  same  manner  as 
for  breakfast ;  but  the  plates  are  placed  for  each  person, 
and  unless  there  be  meat  to  carve,  the  carving  knife  and 
fork  are  not  put  on.  The  bread,  butter,  cake,  preserves, 
etc.,  are  placed  on  the  table  when  it  is  set.  If  hot  meats, 
vegetables,  soup,  or  cakes  be  served,  the  cold  plates  must 
be  changed  for  hot  ones.  When  meats,  vegetables,  or  sal- 
ads have  been  served  at  these  meals,  the  plates  should  be 
changed  before  the  cake  and  preserves  are  passed. 

For  luncheon,  such  dishes  as  these  are  suitable  :  eggs  in 
any  form,  soups,  salads,  cold  meats,  with  baked  or  warmed 
up  potatoes,  any  kind  of  broiled  meat  or  fish,  any  simple 


IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 


5/ 


made  dish,  fresh  fruit,  stewed  fruit,  preserves,  cake,  ginger- 
bread, etc. 

Any  dish  (except  soup  and  fresh  fruit)  that  you  serve  for 
luncheons  will  be  suitable  for  tea. 

Duties  of  the  Waitress. 

Although  every  housekeeper  may  have  some  methods 
peculiarly  her  own  in  the  matter  of  waiting  upon  the  table, 
still  there  are  some  customs  that  are  almost  universal  in 
refined  households. 

If  the  water  has  not  already  been  poured,  the  waitress 
pours  it  as  soon  as  the  guests  sit  down  at  the  table.  If 
there  be  raw  oysters,  they  should  be  served  first.  Usually 
they  are  arranged  on  the  plates,  and  placed  at  each  person's 
seat  before  the  guests  come  in. 

When  the  oyster  plates  have  been  removed,  the  soup 
tureen  and  hot  soup  plates  are  placed  before  the  hostess. 
The  waitress  lifts  the  cover  off  the  tureen,  inverting  it  at 
once,  that  no  drops  of  steam  shall  fall  from  it,  and  carries 
it  from  the  room.  The  hostess  puts  a  ladleful  of  soup  into 
each  plate  and  hands  it  to  the  waitress,  who  places  it  before 
the  guests,  going  in  every  case  to  the  right  hand  side. 
Some  hostesses  always  serve  the  ladies  first,  while  others 
serve  the  guests  in  rotation. 

The  meat  is  set  before  the  host,  the  vegetables  being 
placed  before  the  hostess  or  on  the  sideboard,  as  one 
chooses.  The  waitress  passes  each  plate  as  the  host  hands 
it  to  her.    She  then  passes  vegetables,  bread,  sauce,  etc. 

The  salad  is  to  be  served  by  the  hostess.  After  that  the 
table  is  brushed  and  the  dessert  is  brought  in  and  placed 
before  the  hostess.  The  coffee  follows.  If  fruit  be  served, 
it  is  passed  before  the  coffee. 

Finger  bowls  are  brought  in  after  the  made  dessert  has 
been  served.  A  dainty  doily  is  spread  on  a  dessert  plate 
and  the  finger  bowl  placed  on  this.    The  bowl  should  be 


58       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


about  one  quarter  full  of  water.  Each  guest  lifts  the  bowl 
and  doily  from  the  plate  and  places  them  at  the  left  hand 
side.    The  doily  is  never  to  be  used  to  wipe  the  fingers. 

A  good  waitress  will  not  pile  one  dish  upon  another  when 
removing  them  from  the  table.  She  should  be  provided 
with  a  tray  for  all  the  smaller  dishes,  and  should  remove  the 
plates  one  or  two  at  a  time. 

All  dishes  from  which  people  help  themselves,  such  as 
vegetables,  bread,  butter,  etc.,  should  be  passed  at  the  left ; 
those  that  are  set  before  people,  such  as  soup  plates,  clean 
plates,  water  glasses,  finger  bowls,  etc.,  should  be  passed 
at  the  right. 

Serving  Meals  without  a  Servant. 

A  housekeeper  who  keeps  no  servant  is  often  puzzled  as 
to  how  to  serve  dessert,  how  to  serve  the  other  dishes  at 
dinner,  whether  the  plates  should  be  distributed  on  the 
table  or  placed  beside  the  carver,  and  so  forth. 

The  conditions  are  so  different  in  different  families  that 
no  arbitrary  rules  can  be  given  for  these  things,  but  here 
are  a  few  suggestions  which  may  be  helpful.  Have  every- 
thing ready  in  the  kitchen  to  put  on  the  table  without 
delay,  and  place  the  dishes  where  they  will  keep  hot  until 
wanted.  Eggs  in  any  form  must,  of  course,  be  served  as 
soon  as  cooked  ;  therefore  they  must  be  timed  very  care- 
fully. The  mush  should  be  put  on  the  table  at  the  house- 
keeper's own  place,  and  served  in  saucers  or  little  dishes 
that  come  for  that  purpose.  Any  one  who  does  not  eat 
mush  or  fruit  may  decline  it,  and  wait  for  the  next  course. 
After  the  mush  has  been  served,  remove  the  dishes,  and 
place  the  rest  of  the  breakfast  on  the  table.  The  plates 
should  be  hot,  and  be  piled  before  or  at  one  side  of  the 
carver.  While  he  is  serving,  pour  the  coffee.  When  there 
is  another  member  of  the  family  who  can  put  the  second 
course  on  the  table,  the  housekeeper  should  be  relieved 


IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 


59 


of  this  part  of  the  work.  It  is  hard  on  a  woman  not 
only  to  have  to  prepare  the  breakfast,  but  also  to  rise 
from  the  table,  bring  in  the  second  course  and  serve  this, 
as  she  often  must,  since,  as  a  rule,  men  are  in  a  hurry  in 
the  morning  and  cannot  assist  their  wives  in  serving  the 
breakfast. 


CHAPTER  VII. 


BUYING  POOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 

Going  to  Market. 

WHEN  a  housekeeper  understands  just  what  to  do,  and 
can  spend  the  time  to  go  to  the  market  herself,  she 
will  find  that  she  can  have  a  better  table,  with  greater  variety 
and  at  less  expense,  than  when  she  orders  from  the  provision 
man  who  comes  to  the  house  each  day.  It  is  true  that  there 
are  a  great  many  housekeepers  who  have  neither  time  nor 
strength  for  daily  or  even  weekly  visits  to  the  markets,  but 
the  average  housekeeper  has  the  time,  and  she  will  find  that 
in  the  end  it  will  add  to  her  mental  and  physical  health,  as 
well  as  to  the  attractiveness  of  her  table. 

In  ordering  at  the  house  it  is  a  difficult  matter  to  keep  in 
mind  all  the  things  that  the  provision  man  briskly  calls  off. 
Even  if  he  should  not  miss  many  little  things  that  one  might 
choose  for  the  sake  of  economy  and  variety,  it  would  be 
almost  impossible  to  remember  them  all  when  giving  him 
the  order.  In  the  market,  however,  the  articles  are  spread 
out  before  you,  and  one  thing  suggests  another.  Here  the 
prices  can  be  kept  in  mind  when  selecting  the  food ;  and 
should  the  thing  that  you  have  decided  upon  be  too  ex- 
pensive, something  else  that  you  will  find  to  be  nearly  or 
equally  good  may  be  substituted.  For  example,  you  may 
have  planned  to  have  halibut  for  dinner,  and  found  that,  in- 
stead of  being  eighteen  cents,  it  has  gone  up  to  twenty-five 
or  thirty  cents.  You  will  naturally  hesitate  before  adding 
fifty  per  cent  to  the  expense  of  the  dish.  A  cod,  had- 
dock, whitefish,  red-snapper,  or  something  else  of  moderate 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


61 


FIRST  FIVE  RIBS. 


price,  will  make  a  satisfactory  substitute.  Although  the 
prices  of  beef,  mutton,  pork,  etc.  are  not  subject  to  great 
changes,  the  prices  of  fresh  fish,  vegetables,  fruit,  and  game 

fluctuate  constantly. 
Then  again,  many  lit- 
tle savory  dishes  are 
suggested  by  the  sight 
of  the  various  little 
odds  and  ends  found 
in  the  stalls.  The 
sight  and  odor  of  a 
piece  of  smoked  ba- 
con may  give  you 
visions  of  the  many 
savory  dishes  to  which  it  will  give  relish,  —  liver  and  bacon, 
chicken  livers  en  brochette,  and  rashers  of  bacon  with  chops 
or  beefsteak. 

In  the  market,  too,  perhaps  you  will  see  sheep's  hearts, 
which  when  boiled  make  a  cheap  and  savory  breakfast,  lun- 
cheon, or  supper  dish.  Calves  and  lambs'  tongues  are  both 
cheap  and  good.  They  may  be  kept  in  brine  for  a  week  or 
two  and  then  boiled,  the  same  as  beef  tongue  ;  or  they  may 
be  boiled  while  fresh.  They  make  an  attractive  dish  when 
served  in  jelly,  or 
the>  may  be  braised, 
and  served  with  veg- 
etables a  la  jardi- 
niere, making  an 
elegant  as  well  as 
an  economical  dish. 
Sheep  and  lambs' 
kidneys  are  deli- 
cious when  broiled, 
stewed,   or   sauted.  chuck  ribs. 

They  are  always  cheap.  Perhaps  you  may  see  a  piece 
of  honeycomb  tripe  which  would  make  a  pleasing  dish 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


03 


MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


FORE  QUI  RTEF    }F  4BEF 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


5 


66       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


for  breakfast.  The  liver  of  nearly  all  animals  is  used,  but 
beef,  calves,  and  pigs'  livers  are  the  most  common.  Sheep 
and  lamb's  livers  are  delicious. 

Perhaps  you  want  just  about  two  pounds  of  the  neck  of 
mutton  for  a  broth.    You  see  it  cut  off  and  are  sure  to  get 


rare  thing  that  the  provision  man,  who  takes  your  order 
at  the  house,  does  not  bring  you  more  than  you  want.  In 
the  fish,  vegetable,  and  fruit  market  there  is  constant 
change,  and  we  cannot  be  well  supplied  with  the  best  and 
cheapest  except  by  a  personal  visit  to  the  sales  place. 

If  one  have  a  large  and  cold  room  to  keep  stores  in,  and 
the  family  be  large,  it  will  pay  to  buy  in  quantity,  provided 
the  housekeeper  knows  what  to  do  with  the  supplies  when 
she  gets  them. 

In  cold  weather  I  often  buy  a  hind  quarter  of  mutton. 
To  give  the  housekeeper  an  idea  of  what  can  be  done 
with  such  a  piece  of  meat,  let  me  explain  how  I  use  it. 
This  is  for  a  family  of  three,  with  an  average  of  one 
guest  for  one  meal  each  day.  It  must  be  kept  in  mind 
that  the  part  of  the  hind  quarter  which  will  spoil  first  is  the 
flank ;  next  come  the  ribs  and  loin  ;  the  leg  will  keep  many 
weeks  if  hung  in  a  cold  dry  place.  When  the  piece  of 
mutton  is  sent  home,  I  cut  off  the  flank  and  the  thin  end  of 
the  ribs,  leaving  the  rib  and  loin  chops  quite  short.  Should 
I  want  to  cook  any  of  the  chops  that  day  or  the  next  I  cut 


SIRLOIN  ROAST,  —  SECOND  CUT. 


nearly  what  you  want. 
It  may  be  you  want  a 
pound  or  two  of  the 
round  of  beef  chopped 
for  a  Hamburg  steak  or 
for  beef  tea.  If  you 
see  it  cut,  you  will  not 
get  three  or  four  pounds 
instead  of  two.  This  is 
true  of  all  the  cuts  of 
meat  and  fish.    It  is  a 


68 


MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


off  the  required  number,  but  if  I  do  not  care  to  use  them  for 
several  days,  they  are  not  cut  off  until  that  time.  The  piece 
of  meat  is  now  hung  in  my  cold  room,  and  cut  from  as 
required.  The  flank  and  thin  ribs  are  freed  from  every  bit 
of  fat ;  the  lean  meat  is  cut  into  cubes  and  placed  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  a  generous 
half-cupful  of  pearl  barley,  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  salt, 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  three  quarts  of  cold 
water.  These  materials  for  a  soup  are  placed  on  the  fire 
and  skimmed  carefully  when  they  begin  to  boil ;  then  the 
stewpan  is  set  back  where  the  contents  will  just  bubble  for 


SIRLOIN  ROAST. 
A,  Tenderloin.    B,  Back  of  Sirloin.    C,  Flank.    D,  Suet. 


three  hours.  The  bones  are  placed  in  another  stewpan 
with  one  quart  of  cold  water.  They  cook  for  two  hours  and 
then  the  water  is  strained  into  the  soup  in  the  other  stew- 
pan. When  the  soup  has  been  cooking  for  three  hours,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  are  put  into  a  small  frying-pan  and 
set  on  the  fire.  When  this  becomes  hot,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  are  stirred  into  it,  and  when  the  mixture  becomes 
smooth  and  frothy  it  is  added  to  the  soup ;  after  which  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  is  added.  The  result  is  a 
gallon  of  the  most  delicious  Scotch  broth.  This  soup  is  just 
as  good  when  warmed  over  as  when  first  made,  and  it  is  so 
substantial  that  it  answers  for  luncheon,  no  meat,  fish,  or 
vegetables  being  required.  From  the  remainder  of  the 
hind  quarter  I  get  fourteen  chops,  cutting  the  last  four  from 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


69 


the  leg,  and  a  good  roast.  All  the  fat  is  rendered  for  soap 
grease ;  and  as  I  make  my  own  soap,  this  is  quite  an  item. 

The  weight  of  the  hind  quarter  described  is  about  twenty 
pounds,  and  I  save  about  one  third  what  it  would  cost  me 
to  buy  the  soup  meat,  chops,  and  roast  separately.  One 
must  have  a  good  sharp  knife,  a  meat-saw,  and  a  cleaver  to 
cut  up  meats  in  this  manner. 

Before  going  to  market  one  should  look  through  her 
supplies,  and  then  make  a  list  of  things  for  use  with  them. 
A  list  of  the  meals  that  are  to  be  arranged,  and  such  pur- 
chases as  must  be  made  for  these  meals,  is  next  in  order. 
One  may  find  it  best  to  make  radical  changes  in  her  plans 


RIB  CHOP  BEFORE  TRIMMING.  RIB  CHOP  AFTER  TRIMMING. 


when  she  gets  to  the  market ;  still,  the  list  will  be  a  great 
aid  as  a  guide.  With  it,  one  is  not  likely  to  buy  too  much 
or  too  little. 

In  some  places  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to  go  through  the 
markets,  especially  on  the  regular  market  days.  This  is 
particularly  true  where  there  is  a  large  German  or  French 
population.  The  women  of  these  nationalities  have  stalls 
where  they  sell  eggs,  butter,  cheese,  poultry,  fruit,  vegetables, 
and  flowers,  —  the  product  of  their  own  and  neighbors' 
farms.  Nothing  can  be  brighter  or  more  picturesque  than 
are  such  markets  in  the  spring,  summer,  and  fall,  when 
flowers  and  vegetables  are  in  abundance.  Even  the  poor  la- 
borer's wife  takes  home  her  little  growing  plant,  or  a  bunch 
of  fresh  flowers.  Going  to  market  has  not  been  all  prose 
to  that  poor  woman,  although  she  had  to  calculate  very 


JO       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


closely  in  her  purchases  for  her  table ;  for  has  she  not  had 
the  sight  and  odor  of  the  plants  and  green  vegetables,  and 
did  not  their  beauty  and  freshness  fill  her  mind  with  visions 
of  a  beautiful  and  fragrant  country?  What  a  pity  there  are 
not  such  markets  in  all  our  cities  ! 

If  you  have  never  made  a  practice  of  going  to  market, 
try  the  plan  now.    It  will  pay  you. 


A  woman  who  has  to  provide  for  a  large  family  can  plan 
and  buy  with  greater  economy  than  if  her  family  consisted  of 


piece  of  meat  or  fish,  its  adaptability  to  being  made  over 
into  various  little  dishes  should  be  considered.  Pork  is 
the  least  desirable  of  the  fresh  meats  for  such  purposes. 
For  warming  over  in  various  ways  the  following-named 
meats  are  the  most  valuable  :  poultry,  veal,  lamb,  mutton, 
and  beef.  The  white  meats  are  better  than  the  red  for 
this  purpose.  This  is  also  true  of  fish  ;  the  white,  dry  va- 
rieties are  much  better  for  made-over  dishes  than  the  dark, 
oily  kinds. 

The  smallest  prime  roast  of  beef  is  one  of  the  short  ribs, 
weighing  from  three  to  four  pounds.  There  are  two  of 
these  short  ribs.    In  Boston  they  are  called  the  tip  of  the 


Buying  Food  for  a  Small  Family. 


LOIN. 


only  two  or  three.  This 
is  especially  the  case 
with  meats  and  some 
kinds  of  fish.  In  buying 
meats,  if  the  family  be 
small,  it  is  wiser  to  get 
only  the  parts  actually 
wanted  than  to  buy 
large  pieces,  simply  be- 
cause they  are  cheaper 
by  the  pound.  When 
planning  to  cook  a  large 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT.  7 1 


sirloin ;  outside  New  England,  the  short  ribs  or  first  cut  of 
the  ribs.  The  two  ribs  are  included  in  the  cut,  but  it  is 
possible  to  get  the  cut  divided. 

A  small  loin  of  lamb,  mutton,  or  veal,  weighing  about  three 
or  four  pounds,  makes  a  roast  that  will  not  last  forever. 
Great  care  must  be 
used  in  treating 
these  small  roasts. 
The  heat  must  be 
moderate  after  the 
roast  is  browned  and 
there  must  be  a 
generous  and  fre- 
quent basting,  else 
the  meat  will  be 
dry. 

A  turkey  weighing  between  six  and  seven  pounds  is 
about  the  smallest  one  can  find  in  the  market,  but  it  can 
be  served  in  so  many  ways  that  one  need  not  grow  to  hate 
the  sight  of  turkey  before  it  is  all  gone. 

In  the  season  of  lamb  it  is  possible  to  get  a  small  leg  from 
which  there  can  be  cut  one  or  two  cutlets.  The  remainder 
of  the  leg  can  be  roasted  the  following  day.  If  there  be  a 
cold  room  where  meats  can  be  hung,  a  leg  of  mutton  can 
be  used  for  several  meals.  Cut  off  about  one  third  for  a 
roast.  In  about  two  or  three  days  cut  off  a  thick  slice,  to 
be  breaded  and  fried,  and  served  with  tomato  sauce.  In 
four  or  five  days  the  remainder  of  the  leg  can  be  roasted. 
The  leg  of  mutton  that  one  can  get  small  enough  for  this 
purpose  will  probably  be  what  butchers  call  yearling  lamb. 
It  is  not  possible  to  get  the  best  kind  of  beef  or  mutton  in 
so  light  a  weight  that  it  can  be  used  to  advantage  in  a 
small  family. 

One  grouse  or  partridge,  a  chicken,  duck,  or  rabbit,  a 
pair  of  pigeons  or  of  quail,  all  can  be  used  as  a  roast  in  a 
family  of  two. 


72        MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Here  are  some  of  the  things  that  can  be  bought  in  small 
quantities  :  half  a  pound  of  sausages,  a  thin  slice  of  ham 
that  will  not  weigh  more  than  half  a  pound,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  dried  beef,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  smoked 
bacon,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  smoked  salmon  or  halibut, 
one  pound  of  salt  codfish,  which  will  answer  for  three  or 
four  dishes,  —  fish-balls,  fish  in  cream,  fish  hash,  etc.  ;  one 
thin  slice  of  round  steak,  weighing  about  a  pound,  can  be 
used  for  beef  olives  or  roll ;  a  slice  of  veal  from  the  leg 
can  be  used  in  the  same  way  ;  a  piece  of  beef,  cut  from 
the  shoulder,  and  weighing  about  two  or  three  pounds,  can 


LEG  OF  MUTTON. 


be  braised  :  about  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fresh  beef,  cut 
from  any  of  the  tough  parts  of  the  animal,  can  be  prepared 
in  a  stew ;  mutton  and  veal  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

A  short  porter-house  steak  may  be  made  to  answer  for 
two  meals.  Cut  out  the  tenderloin,  broil  it,  and  serve  with 
brown  or  mushroom  sauce.  The  remainder  of  the  steak 
should  be  put  in  a  cold  place  and  used  a  day  or  two  later. 

In  summer  vegetables  should  be  bought  from  day  to  day, 
as  they  are  required.  In  the  fall  and  winter  tuberous 
vegetables  may  be  bought  in  larger  quantities,  if  there  be  a 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


73 


cool  place  in  which  to  store  them.  The  common  white 
potatoes  may  be  purchased  by  the  barrel,  but  as  the  sweet 
potato  decays  rapidly,  it  is  best  to  buy  it  by  the  pound. 
Carrots,  turnips,  beets,  onions,  squash,  etc.,  are  vegetables 
that  can  be  stored,  and  if  one  live  in  a  country  town  it  will 
be  well  to  store  them  ;  but  for  the  housekeeper  in  the  city 
it  will  be  economy  to  purchase  these  vegetables  only  as  she 
requires  them. 

Squash  spoils  quickly  after  it  has  been  cut.  Since  one 
can  purchase  as  small  a  quantity  as  two  or  three  pounds,  it 
would,  therefore,  be  unwise  to  buy  a  whole  squash  simply 
because  it  costs  a  little  less  per  pound  than  when  bought 
in  a  small  quantity. 

If  one  have  a  cold  cellar,  it  would  be  well  to  put  in  one 
or  two  barrels  of  apples  late  in  the  fall ;  but  as  all  fruits  as 
well  as  vegetables  require  a  low,  dry  temperature,  it  would 
be  unwise  to  make  large  purchases  unless  one  have  a  proper 
place  to  keep  them  in. 

Butter,  Eggs,  and  Milk. 

Butter  is  an  expensive  article,  and  should  be  selected 
with  care.  If  one  have  the  proper  place  for  storing  it,  and 
can  get  it  direct  from  some  trustworthy  dairy,  it  would  be 
economical  to  purchase  the  winter's  supply  in  October. 
About  fifty  pounds  will  be  enough  for  a  family  of  two  for 
six  months.  This  should  be  put  up  in  two  or  three  small 
tubs.    It  must  be  kept  in  a  cool,  sweet  place. 

Eggs,  of  course,  are  best  fresh.  It  is  wise  economy  for 
the  young  housekeeper  to  pay  the  extra  price,  and  always 
be  sure  of  the  quality  of  her  supply. 

Pure  milk  is  a  most  important  adjunct  to  the  table.  As 
far  as  it  is  in  her  power  to  do  so,  the  housekeeper  should 
see  that  the  supply  comes  from  a  wholesome  source,  and 
then  do  her  part  to  keep  the  milk  good  by  having  the  ves- 
sels perfectly  clean  and  the  surroundings  such  that  the  milk 
shall  not  be  contaminated. 


74       miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


About  Groceries. 

Flour,  if  stored  in  a  cool,  sweet,  dry  place,  will  be  better 
for  bread-making  if  kept  several  months  after  being  made. 
All  the  meals  are  better  when  fresh,  and  only  a  small  quan- 
tity should  be  purchased  at  a  time.  Sugar  is  about  the 
same  price,  whether  you  buy  it  in  small  or  large  quantities. 
It  saves  much  bother  to  buy  the  granulated  and  cut  sugar 
in  sufficient  quantities  to  last  a  month  or  more.  Powdered 
sugar  "  cakes,"  and  only  a  small  amount  should  be  kept 
in  store.  English  breakfast  tea  improves  with  age,  while 
the  lighter  teas  do  not.  The  green  coffee  berry  grows  bet- 
ter as  it  grows  older ;  but  after  corTee  is  roasted  it  quickly 
loses  strength  and  flavor,  so  that  only  a  small  quantity  of 
the  roasted  berry  should  be  bought  at  one  time. 

Buy  flavors,  spices,  etc.  in  small  quantities,  and  get  only 
the  purest.  The  store  closet  should  always  contain  maca- 
roni, rice,  fine  breakfast  hominy,  tapioca,  barley,  corn-starch, 
arrowroot,  farina,  chocolate,  breakfast  cocoa,  tea,  corTee, 
some  of  the  cereal  preparations  for  mush,  white  and  red 
pepper,  mustard,  a  small  supply  of  whole  spices,  such  as 
cinnamon,  clove,  nutmeg,  mace,  allspice,  and  pepper ;  also 
ground  cinnamon,  mace,  and  allspice.  The  less  ground 
clove  one  uses  the  better.  It  is  well  to  have  on  hand  a 
bunch  each  of  dried  thyme,  savory,  and  sage,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  bay  leaves,  which  can  be  purchased  at  the  grocer's 
or  druggist's,  a  few  packages  of  gelatine,  and  a  small  pack- 
age of  sea-moss  farina,  which  insures  a  foundation  for  a 
cold  dessert  at  short  notice. 

For  emergencies,  the  store  closet  should  always  contain 
some  canned  peas,  tomatoes,  corn,  fruit,  chicken,  salmon,  a 
box  of  fancy  crackers,  some  plain  soda  crackers,  a  bottle  of 
olives,  and  a  can  of  condensed  milk.  One  need  never  be 
at  a  loss  to  prepare  a  good  meal  at  short  notice  with  this 
supply  in  reserv  e. 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


CARE  OF  FOOD. 

One  may  buy  food  with  good  judgment,  and  yet  fail 
to  be  an  economical  provider  because  she  does  not  take 
proper  care  of  it.  Perfect  cleanliness  is  essential  for  the 
best  preservation  of  food.  The  cellar,  pantries,  storerooms, 
refrigerators,  and  all  the  receptacles  in  which  food  is  kept, 
should  be  frequently  inspected  and  thoroughly  cleaned. 
Heat  and  moisture,  tend  to  cause  decay ;  therefore  it  is 
important  that  all  foods  should  be  surrounded  with  pure, 
cool,  dry  air.  When  it  is  possible,  expose  every  closet  and 
food  receptacle  to  the  sun  and  air  several  times  a  week. 

All  kinds  of  cooked  food,  particularly  the  animal  foods, 
spoil  quickly  when  covered  closely  while  still  warm.  All 
soups,  meat,  fish,  bread,  etc.,  that  are  to  be  kept  for  many 
days  or  hours,  should  be  cooled  thoroughly  and  quickly  in  a 
current  of  cold  air.  In  hot  weather  it  is  a  good  plan,  when 
cooling  soups,  milk,  or  any  liquid  mass,  to  place  the  vessel 
containing  the  food  in  another  of  cold  water,  —  with  ice,  if 
convenient,  —  and  set  it  in  a  cool  draught. 

All  meat,  when  not  hung  up,  should  be  placed  on  a  dish 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  If  poultry  be  drawn,  and  a  few 
pieces  of  charcoal  be  placed  in  the  body,  it  will  keep  longer 
than  if  hung  undrawn.  It  must  not  be  washed  until  it  is  to 
be  cooked.    The  dryer  the  meat  is  kept  the  better. 

A  dish  of  charcoal  placed  in  the  refrigerator  or  pantry 
helps  to  keep  the  atmosphere  dry  and  sweet. 

Milk  and  butter  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  away 
from  all  strong  odors. 

Bread  and  cake  must  be  thoroughly  cooled  before  being 
put  in  boxes  or  jars ;  if  not,  the  steam  will  cause  them  to 
mould  quickly.  The  bread  box  should  be  washed,  scalded, 
and  thoroughly  aired  in  the  sun,  twice  a  week.  The  crusts 
and  stale  pieces  of  white  raised  bread,  for  which  there  is  no 
other  use,  should  be  put  in  a  pan,  be  dried  slowly  in  a  warm 


76       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


oven,  and  then  be  pounded,  sifted,  and  put  in  glass  jars  for 
future  use. 

All  the  trimmings  of  fat  should  be  rendered  while  they 
are  sweet ;  then  strained  into  jars  or  pails  kept  for  that  pur- 
pose. Put  beef,  pork,  and  chicken  fat  together;  this  will 
answer  for  deep  frying.  Ham,  bacon,  and  sausage  fat 
answers  for  frying  potatoes,  hominy,  mush,  etc.  All  the 
strong- flavored  fats,  such  as  mutton,  duck,  turkey,  and  the 
skimmings  from  boiled  ham,  are  to  be  kept  by  themselves 
for  making  soap. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  pure  fat  will  keep  sweet 
many  months,  but  if  water  or  any  foreign  substance  be  left 
in  it,  it  will  spoil  quickly.  When  rendering  or  clarifying 
fat,  cook  it  slowly  until  there  are  no  bubbles.  As  long  as 
bubbles  form,  you  may  be  sure  that  there  is  water  in  the  fat. 
If  put  away  in  that  condition  it  will  become  rancid. 

Clarifying  Fat. 

To  clarify  fat  that  has  been  used  for  frying,  put  it  into  a 
frying  kettle,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  sediment  go  in,  and 
place  the  kettle  on  the  fire.  When  the  fat  becomes  hot, 
add  three  raw  potatoes  cut  into  slices,  and  stir  well.  The 
impurities  gather  on  the  potatoes.  Three  potatoes  will  be 
enough  for  four  pounds  of  fat.  Whenever  there  are  any 
trimmings  of  fat  from  any  kind  of  meat  cut  them  in  bits  and 
place  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  where 
they  will  cook  slowly  until  all  the  liquid  fat  has  been 
extracted.    Strain  this  into  a  pot  kept  for  this  purpose. 

As  soon  as  the  fat  is  skimmed  from  soups,  gravies,  and  the 
water  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  it  should  be  clarified, 
as  the  water  and  other  objectionable  particles  contained  in  it 
will  cause  it  to  become  rancid  if  it  stands  a  long  time.  Put 
it  on  the  stove,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  heat  it  slowly.  When 
it  becomes  melted,  set  it  where  it  will  simply  bubble,  and 
keep  it  there  (being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn)  until  there  is 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARIXG  FOR  IT. 


77 


no  motion,  and  all  the  sediment  has  fallen  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.    When  this  stage  is  reached  the  fat  is  clarified. 

Sometimes  fat  that  has  been  used  several  times  for  frying, 
and  has  not  been  strained,  will  become  dark  and  unfit  for 
use.  This  may  be  put  into  a  kettle  with  about  six  times  as 
much  hot  water,  boiled  for  twenty  minutes,  turned  into  a 
large  pan,  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  When  the  contents  of 
the  pan  become  cold,  the  fat  will  be  found  in  the  form  of  a 
solid  cake  on  the  surface  of  the  water.  It  must  be  removed, 
and  clarified  in  the  manner  already  described. 

To  clarify  butter,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the 
back  part  of  the  range,  where  it  will  heat  slowly.  When  a 
clear,  oily  substance  is  found  on  top,  and  a  cloudy  sediment 
at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  lift  the  pan  gently  and  pour  off 
the  clear  substance,  which  will  be  the  clarified  butter. 

When  the  fat  is  ready  to  strain,  draw  it  back  where  it  will 
partially  cool  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth. 

Tin  or  stoneware  vessels  are  the  best  in  which  to  keep 
fat.  The  pails  in  which  lard  comes  are  very  good  for  soap 
grease,  because,  knowing  their  exact  capacity,  one  knows 
just  how  much  grease  there  is  on  hand.  Have  the  paiis 
covered,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place. 

Save  for  stock  all  the  bones  and  trimmings  from  fresh 
meat,  the  bones  from  roasts  or  broils,  and  such  pieces  of 
cooked  meat  as  are  too  tough  or  hard  to  serve  cold  or  in 
made  dishes.  Put  these  in  a  stewpan,  with  water  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  simmer  for  five  or  six  hours.  Strain  into 
a  bowl,  and  cool  quickly.  No  matter  how  little  bone  or 
meat  there  may  be,  cook  it  in  this  way  while  it  is  fresh  and 
sweet.  A  gill  of  stock  has  great  value  in  warming  over 
meats,  fish,  and  vegetables. 

Odds  and  Ends. 

It  is  true  that  the  care  of  remnants  and  their  preparation 
for  the  table  is  not  a  slight  matter  ;  but  in  the  household 
where  attention  is  given  to  this  matter  there  is  no  waste, 


78        MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

and  a  pleasant  change  of  fare  can  be  made  daily.  If  a 
housekeeper  looks  into  her  larder  each  morning,  and  avails 
herself  of  the  opportunities  she  finds  to  make  little  dishes 
of  the  bits  of  food  which  she  sees  before  her,  the  work  of 
caring  for  the  odds  and  ends  may  become  a  pleasure  rather 
than  a  burden ;  the  preparation  of  this  food  giving  a  bright 
woman  an  opportunity  to  exercise  much  taste  and  skill  in 
producing  dainty  and  healthful  dishes. 

Pieces  of  cold  meat  or  fish  may  be  divided  into  small 
pieces,  and  warmed  in  a  white  or  brown  sauce  ;  or  the 
sauce  and  meat  or  fish  may  be  put  in  a  small  baking  dish, 
covered  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  then  browned  in 
the  oven.  If  there  be  not  enough  fish  or  meat  to  serve  to 
the  entire  family,  use  an  extra  quantity  of  sauce,  and  fill  up 
the  dish  with  either  well  seasoned  mashed  potatoes,  hominy, 
rice,  or  macaroni.  Cover  lightly  with  grated  bread  crumbs, 
and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  this  for  half  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven. 

Cold  meat  or  fish  may  be  hashed  fine  and  mixed  with 
potato,  rice,  or  hominy,  and  a  sauce,  and  made  into 
croquettes. 

Bits  of  cooked  ham  or  sausages  may  be  minced  fine  and 
mixed  with  hashed  potatoes  ;  the  mixture  being  then  well 
seasoned  and  put  into  a  frying-pan,  with  a  little  butter  or 
sweet  drippings,  and  browned.  If  there  be  a  little  gravy  of 
any  kind,  it  may  be  added  to  any  of  the  above-mentioned 
dishes. 

Nearly  all  kinds  of  vegetables  may  be  combined  in  a  salad 
or  a  hash. 

Tough  pieces  of  meat  and  bones  may  be  used  in  making 
little  stews  or  a  little  soup  stock.  All  kinds  of  meats  may 
be  combined  in  making  a  stew  or  soup. 

A  few  spoonfuls  of  almost  any  kind  of  meat,  fish,  or  vege- 
table may  be  heated  in  a  sauce  and  spread  over  a  plain 
omelet,  just  before  rolling  it  up,  thus  giving  a  change  in 
this  dish  of  eggs. 


BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


79 


A  soft-boiled  egg  left  from  a  meal  may  be  boiled  until 
hard,  and  then  used  in  a  salad  or  an  egg  sauce. 

Pieces  of  bread  may  be  used  for  puddings  and  griddle- 
cakes,  and,  in  the  form  of  dried  crumbs,  for  breading. 

Pieces  of  cake  and  gingerbread  may  be  used  in  puddings. 

Gravies,  sauces,  and  soups,  no  matter  how  small  the  quan- 
tity, should  be  saved  to  use  in  warming  over  meat,  fish,  or 
vegetables. 

A  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  rice  or  hominy  are  often 
a  pleasing  addition  to  muffins  or  griddle-cakes.  Indeed, 
it  is  rarely  necessary  to  waste  a  particle  of  food  if  the 
proper  attention  be  given  to  the  little  details  of  kitchen 
management. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

SOUPS. 
A  Good  Plain  Stock. 


7  quarts  of  cold  water. 

A   shin   of   beef   weighing  ten 

pounds. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
i  generous  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
A  piece  of  cinnamon  two  inches 

long. 


i  teaspoonful  of  pepper-corns. 

A  tiny  bit  of  mace. 

6  whole  cloves. 

yz  pint  of  minced  onion. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  carrot. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery. 

A  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs. 


Have  the  butcher  cut  the  shin  of  beef  into  several  parts. 
Wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  then  cut  off  any  particles  that 
do  not  seem  perfectly  sweet.  The  lower  end  of  the  leg, 
near  the  hoofs,  is  apt  to  be  a  little  tainted.  Cut  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  and  then  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  the  butter  in  the  soup  pot,  and  place  on 
the  hottest  part  of  the  fire.  Put  the  meat  in  the  pot,  and 
stir  frequently  until  it  is  browned.  It  will  take  about  half 
an  hour  for  this.  At  first  the  juices  are  drawn  out  of  the 
meat,  making  a  great  deal  of  liquid  in  the  pot.  The  cook- 
ing must  be  continued  until  all  this  juice  has  evaporated, 
leaving  a  dry,  brown  substance  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Now  add  one  pint  of  the  water,  and  stir  the  meat  well, 
scraping  the  brown  substance  from  the  bottom  of  the  pot. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  water  and  the  salt  and  bones. 
As  soon  as  the  soup  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  skim  care- 
fully several  times.  Lay  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  in  a  strainer 
and  place  in  a  bowl.  Skim  into  this,  and  when  the  soup  has 
ceased  to  throw  up  any  more  scum,  pour  back  into  the  soup 


SOUPS. 


81 


pot  the  clear  liquid  which  will  be  found  in  the  bowl.  Draw 
the  soup  pot  back  where  the  contents  will  bubble  gently  for 
eight  hours. 

Put  the  minced  vegetables  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  small  frying-pan,  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an 
hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time  draw  forward  to  a  hotter 
part  of  the  range  and  stir  until  they  begin  to  brown ;  then 
draw  them  to  one  side  of  the  pan  and  press  out  the  butter. 
Add  them  to  the  soup,  and  pour  the  butter  into  a  cup,  as 
it  will  be  useful  in  making  sauces. 

Tie  up  the  spice  and  the  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs  in  a 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  put  into  the  soup  pot.  Cook 
the  soup  for  an  hour  and  a  half  longer ;  then  strain  through 
a  coarse  napkin  into  two  or  three  bowls,  and  cook  rapidly. 
Set  away  in  a  cold  place  and  it  will  become  a  jelly.  When 
about  to  use  it,  remove  all  the  fat  and  turn  into  a  sauce- 
pan, being  careful  to  keep  back  any  sediment  there  may 
be  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  It  will  then  be  ready  to 
serve  as  a  clear  soup  ;  or  it  can  have  any  kind  of  a  garnish 
added  to  it,  such  as  cooked  rice,  macaroni,  vegetables,  etc. 
It  may  require  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper. 

This  soup  may  be  kept  for  months  if  sealed  in  jars. 
Have  the  jars  hot  and  the  soup  boiling  hot.  On  filling 
the  jars,  seal  at  once,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Second  Stock. 

Put  away  in  a  cold  place  the  meat  and  bones  which  were 
left  from  the  strained  stock.  In  the  morning  add  six 
quarts  of  water  to  it,  and  cook  gently  for  six  hours  ;  then 
strain  and  put  away  to  cool.  This  stock  lacks  the  fine 
flavor  of  the  first  stock,  but  it  is  useful  for  thick  soups, 
sauces,  and  made-over  dishes. 


6 


82  MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Macaroni  Soup. 


\l/2  pints  of  clear  soup. 
4  sticks  of  macaroni, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Break  the  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  throw  it  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  containing  the  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Let  it  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  with  the  cover  off  the 
stewpan.  Drain  off  the  water  and  add  the  macaroni  to  the 
hot  stock.  Cover,  and  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
being  careful  to  have  the  soup  only  bubble  at  one  side.  It 
may  require  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper. 

Vermicelli  and  any  of  the  smaller  forms  of  Italian  paste 
may  be  added  to  the  clear  stock  and  cooked  gently  for 
about  twenty  minutes. 


Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  and  cook  it  the  same  as 
the  macaroni  ;  then  drain  it,  and  add  to  the  pint  and  a 
half  of  hot  stock.  Cook  the  mixture  gently  for  ten 
minutes. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot.  I  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

i  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery.  Yd  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

y2  pint  of  potatoes,  chopped  fine,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Free  the  meat  from  fat  and  cut  it  into  fine  pieces.  Put 
it  in  the  soup  pot  with  the  cold  water  and  heat  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point.  Skim  carefully,  and  set  back  where  the 
soup  will  just  bubble  at  one  side  of  the  pot.  Wash  the 
barley  and  put  it  on  to  cook  in  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
At  the  end  of  half  an  hour  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the 
barley  to  the  soup.    WThen  the  soup  has  been  cooking  for 


Rice  Soup. 


Beef  Soup. 


2  pounds  of  beef  from  the  round. 
2  quarts  of  water. 


]/2  gill  of  barley, 
i  clove. 


SOUPS. 


83 


three  hours  put  the  butter,  minced  onion,  carrot,  and  celery 
into  a  frying-pan  and  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Skim  the  vegetables  from  the  butter  and  put  them  in  the 
soup.  Stir  the  flour  into  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan. 
Cook  until  brown,  stirring  all  the  while ;  then  add  to  the 
soup.  Now  add  the  potatoes  and  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cook  for  half  an  hour  longer. 


Oxtail  Soup. 


1  oxtail. 

1  quart  of  water. 
1  pint  of  stock. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
1  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 


20  pepper-corns. 

2  whole  cloves. 

A  tiny  bit  of  mace. 

A  small  piece  of  cinnamon. 

1  bay  leaf. 

1  small  leaf  of  sage. 

1  small  sprig  of  parsley. 

1  small  sprig  of  thyme. 


Free  the  oxtail  from  fat  and  cut  into  small  joints.  Wash 
these  in  several  waters  and  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
the  cold  water.  Place  on  the  range  and  heat  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point ;  then  skim,  and  move  the  stewpan  back 
where  the  water  will  just  bubble  at  one  cide  of  the  stew- 
pan. Cook  for  one  hour.  Tie  the  vegetables,  herbs,  and 
spice  in  a  piece  of  netting,  and  put  them  in  the  stewpan. 
Add  the  salt,  and  cook  for  one  hour  longer.  Strain  the 
broth  into  a  bowl  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place.  Rinse  the 
oxtail  in  cold  water  and  put  in  a  cold  place. 

When  the  broth  is  cold,  skim  off  all  the  fat.  Put  the 
soup  stock  and  skimmed  broth  in  a  stewpan,  and  set  on 
the  fire.  When  this  boils,  add  the  corn-starch,  mixed 
smoothly  with  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Cook  for  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  then  add  the  oxtail  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer. 
Taste,  to  see  if  seasoned  enough,  and  serve  very  hot. 

A  few  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  will  improve  this  soup  for 
many  tastes.  It  should  be  added  just  before  the  soup  is 
poured  into  the  tureen. 


84       miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Veal  Broth. 


2  pounds  of  the  poorer  parts  of 
veal. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot, 
i  whole  clove. 

i  inch  piece  of  cinnamon. 


1  level  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoontul  of  pepper. 

%.  teaspoontul  of  celery  seeds. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

i  pint  of  raw  potato  cubes. 


Cut  the  veal  into  cubes  and  put  the  bones  and  meat  into 
a  stewpan  with  the  water,  seasoning,  and  vegetables.  Place 
on  the  fire,  and  when  the  soup  comes  to  the  boiling  point, 
skim  carefully,  and  then  set  back  where  it  will  just  bubble. 
Heat  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  add  the  flour  to 
it.  Stir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy ;  then  stir 
it  into  the  broth.  Simmer  the  broth  for  two  hours  and  a 
half,  and,  after  adding  the  pint  of  potato  cubes,  cook  for 
half  an  hour  longer. 

The  potatoes  may  be  omitted  and  a  quarter  of  a  cupful 
of  rice  be  added  when  the  broth  has  been  cooking  for  an 
hour  and  a  half. 


Scotch  Broth. 


i}/2  pounds  of  neck  or  shoulder  of 
mutton. 

I  tablespoonful  of  pearl  barley, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 
I  tablespoonful  of  minced  turnip, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 


i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

I  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley 

3  pints  of  water. 


Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  mutton  and  cut  the  lean 
meat  into  cubes,  which  should  be  put  in  a  stewpan  with 
the  chopped  vegetables,  salt,  pepper,  and  the  barley,  well 
washed.  Tie  the  bones  in  a  piece  of  coarse  white  netting 
and  put  them  in  the  stewpan  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Add  the  three  pints  of  cold  water  and  cover  the  stewpan. 


SOUPS. 


85 


Place  the  soup  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point.  When  it  reaches  that  temperature,  skim  it 
and  set  back  where  it  will  only  bubble  slightly  at  one  side  of 
the  pan.  Cook  in  this  manner  for  three  hours,  being  care- 
ful not  to  let  it  more  than  bubble  gently  in  all  that  time. 
At  the  end  of  the  three  hours  take  out  the  bones.  Now 
put  the  butter  in  a  little  saucepan  and  set  on  the  fire  to 
heat.  When  hot,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  —  stirring  all 
the  time  —  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy.  Stir 
this  into  the  broth  ;  then  add  the  chopped  parsley,  and  cook 
ten  minutes  longer. 

Vegetable  Soup. 


1  pound  of  beef. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

I  gill  of  minced  carrot, 
i  gill  of  minced  turnip. 
Yz  gill  of  minced  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 


%  pint  of  potato  cubes. 

I  tablespoonful  of  rice. 

i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

i  generous  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Y&  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Cut  the  meat  into  cubes ;  then  put  it  in  a  stewpan  and 
set  on  the  fire  with  the  cold  water.  When  this  boils,  skim 
carefully.  Mix  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  one  gill  of 
cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  ingredients.  Next 
add  the  rice.  Move  the  stewpan  back  where  the  contents 
will  bubble  at  one  side  for  one  hour ;  then  add  the  onion 
and  carrot.  Cook  for  one  hour  longer,  and  then  put  in  the 
turnips,  potatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  simmer  for  half  an 
hour  longer.    Serve  hot. 

Two  quarts  of  the  water  in  which  the  bones  and  hard 
pieces  of  meat  have  been  cooked  may  be  substituted  for 
the  beef  and  water.  If  one  choose,  half  a  pint  of  finely 
shred  cabbage  may  be  added  at  the  same  time  the  onions 
and  carrots  are  put  in  the  soup. 


86       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Chicken  Soup. 


3  pints  of  the  water  in  which  a 

fowl  was  boiled. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice. 
I  tablespoouful  of  butter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery, 
i  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  —  generous. 
l/%  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
l/2  teaspoonful  of  parsley. 


Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  chicken 
stock.  Place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  two  hours.  The  soup 
must  not  boil  in  that  time ;  keep  it  where  it  will  be  at  the 
point  of  boiling,  but  do  not  let  it  bubble.  At  the  end  of 
two  hours  put  the  butter  and  vegetables  in  a  small  frying- 
pan  and  set  on  the  fire,  to  cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes. 
Now  draw  the  pan  to  a  hotter  part  of  the  range,  and  stir  for 
one  minute.  After  pressing  the  butter  from  the  vegetables, 
put  them  with  the  soup.  Put  the  flour  with  the  butter  re- 
maining in  the  pan,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy  ;  then 
stir  the  mixture  into  the  soup.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,  and 
chopped  parsley,  and  cook  the  soup  for  thirty  minutes 
longer,  allowing  it  to  bubble  at  one  side  of  the  saucepan. 

If  you  have  a  little  cold  chicken,  cut  it  into  small  cubes 
and  add  it  to  the  soup  at  the  same  time  the  vegetables  are 
put  in.  If  you  cannot  get  celery,  take  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  celery  salt,  and  in  that  case  use  only  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  common  salt. 

This  soup  can  be  made  with  the  stock  from  boiled  fowl,  or 
that  obtained  by  boiling  the  bones  of  roast  chicken. 


Cream  of  Rice  Soup. 

Make  this  in  the  same  way  as  chicken  soup,  with  the 
addition  of  one  tablespoonful  of  rice,  a  slight  grating  of  nut- 
meg, a  tiny  bit  of  mace,  and  a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon 
about  an  inch  long,  and  the  omission  of  the  parsley. 

When  the  time  required  for  the  cooking  has  expired,  take 
out  the  spice  and  pour  the  soup  into  a  fine  sieve.    Rub  all 


SOUPS. 


8; 


the  rice  through,  using  a  wooden  vegetable  masher.  Put 
the  strained  mixture  in  a  clean  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 

If  you  have  cream  in  plenty,  use  half  cream  and  half 
milk.  The  soup  will  be  much  smoother  if  it  is  strained  a 
second  time,  after  the  milk  has  been  boiled  with  it. 


i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Reserve  half  a  gill  of  the  milk  and  put  the  remainder  on 
to  cook  in  the  double-boiler.  Put  the  tomatoes  on  to  cook 
in  a  stewpan.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  cold  milk  and  stir  into 
the  boiling  milk.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  add  the  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter.  Stir  the  soda  into  the  hot  tomatoes 
and  stir  for  half  a  minute  ;  then  rub  through  a  strainer. 
Add  the  strained  tomatoes  to  the  thickened  milk,  and  serve 
at  once. 

If  canned  tomatoes  be  used,  stir  the  contents  of  the  can 
before  measuring,  that  the  proper  proportion  of  the  juice  of 
the  tomatoes  shall  be  used.  If  it  be  inconvenient  to  serve 
the  soup  when  the  tomatoes  and  thickened  milk  are  done, 
keep  them  hot  in  their  separate  stewpans,  and  do  not  mix 
until  just  before  the  time  to  serve. 


Mock  Bisque. 


i  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

I  pint  of  milk. 

I  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Tomato  Soup. 


i  pint  of  canned  tomatoes 
x/2  pint  of  stock  or  water, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

i  heaped   teaspoonful   of  corn- 


\  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


starch. 
2  whole  cloves. 


I  tablespoonful  of  minced 


carrot. 


88       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Put  the  tomato  and  stock  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  the 
fire.  Cook  the  vegetables  slowly  in  the  butter  for  twenty 
minutes  ;  then  press  out  the  butter  and  put  the  vegetables  in 
the  soup.  Into  the  butter  remaining  in  the  pan  put  the 
flour,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  fiothy ;  then  add  to  the 
soup.  Mix  the  corn-starch  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water,  and  stir  into  the  soup.  Add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Strain,  and  serve  with  toasted 
or  crisped  bread. 


Tomato  Soup,  No.  2. 


i  pint  of  canned  tomatoes. 
y2  pint  of  water, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
i  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
l/z  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Put  the  tomato,  water,  and  seasonings  in  a  stewpan  and 
set  on  the  fire.  Beat  the  butter  and  flour  together  until 
creamy.  When  the  soup  begins  to  boil,  stir  this  mixture 
into  it,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Strain,  and  serve  with 
toasted  or  fried  bread. 


Tomato  and  Macaroni  Soup. 


i  pint  of  meat  stock. 

i  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonf  uls  of  salt. 

X  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


1  gill  of  cold  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch. 
y2  pint  of  broken  macaroni. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


The  stock  can  be  made  with  any  bits  of  dry  hard  meat, 
or  the  bones  from  roasted  or  broiled  meat ;  or  one  can  take 
the  water  in  which  a  fowl  was  boiled. 

Put  the  tomatoes  and  stock  in  a  stewpan  and  set  on 
the  fire.  Mix  the  corn- starch  with  the  cold  water,  and 
stir  into  the  boiling  liquid.  Add  aiso  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
pepper. 


SOUPS. 


89 


Put  the  macaroni  in  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water,  and 
put  the  macaroni  in  the  soup.  Add  the  butter  at  the  same 
time,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer. 

If  the  soup  be  preferred  smooth,  it  can  be  strained  before 
the  macaroni  is  added. 


Corn  Soup. 


y2  can  of  corn. 

pints  of  milk. 
\x/z  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion. 


Mash  the  corn  as  fine  as  possible,  and  then  put  it  in  the 
double-boiler.  Reserve  one  gill  of  the  milk,  and,  putting 
the  remainder  with  the  corn,  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Cook  the  butter  and  onions  together  for  ten  minutes,  and 
add  to  the  corn  and  milk.  Mix  the  cold  milk  with  the 
flour,  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  Add  the  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Strain,  and  serve 
hot. 

Potato  Soup. 


4  potatoes  of  medium  size. 
1%  pints  of  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

%  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 


Pare  the  potatoes,  and,  placing  on  the  fire  in  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them,  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Re- 
serve one  gill  of  the  milk,  and  put  the  remainder  in  the 
double-boiler  with  the  onions  and  celery,  and  place  on 
the  fire.  Mix  the  cold  milk  with  the  flour,  and  stit  into 
the  boiling  milk.  When  the  potatoes  have  been  cooking 
for  thirty  minutes,  pour  off  all  the  water  and  mash  them 


90       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


fine  and  light.  Gradually  beat  into  them  the  milk.  Now 
add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  rub  the  soup  through 
a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  and  add  the  minced  parsley. 
Cook  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  immediately. 


Hub  Soup. 


y2  pint  of  baked  beans. 

^  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

I  pint  of  water. 


i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
^  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 


Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  stewpan  and  simmer  for 
half  an  hour,  with  the  stewpan  covered ;  then  rub  the 
mixture  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire. 
Simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers 
or  bread. 


Lima  Bean  Soup. 


x/2  pint  of  beans. 
l/2  pint  of  milk. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 
I  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 


1  bay  leaf. 

2  whole  cloves. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
i  tablespoonful  ot  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Soak  the  beans  over  night  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Pour  this  water  off  and  rinse  the  beans  in  fresh  water.  Now 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Cook  slowly  for  two  hours.  Cook  the  vegetables  in  the 
butter  for  twenty  minutes.  On  taking  them  out,  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Put  the  flour  into  the  butter  remaining  in  the 
pan,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Add  this  mixture  to 
the  soup.  Now  add  the  other  seasonings,  and  cook  for  one 
hour  longer.  At  the  end  of  this  time  take  out  the  spice 
and  rub  the  soup  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire 
and  add  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk.  Stir  the  soup  until  it 
boils ;  then  serve. 


SOUPS, 


91 


Dried  Pea  Soup. 


y2  pint  of  peas. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  or 

butter. 


1  ounce  of  ham,  or  a  ham  bone. 
y2  pound  of  cold  roast  or  broiled 
meat. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  bay  leaf. 


Soak  the  peas  over  night  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  In 
the  morning  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  the  peas,  the  meat 
and  bone,  and  two  quarts  of  fresh  water  in  the  soup  kettle, 
and  place  on  the  fire.  Cook  gently.  At  the  end  of  three 
hours  put  the  drippings  and  vegetables  in  a  small  saucepan, 
and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  When  the  vegetables 
have  been  cooked  for  this  time,  draw  the  saucepan  forward 
where  they  will  cook  a  little  faster  for  one  minute.  Stir  all 
the  time ;  then  draw  them  to  the  side  of  the  pan  to  press 
out  the  fat,  and  after  that  put  them  with  the  soup.  Into 
the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan  put  the  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  becomes  smooth  and  frothy.  Stir 
this  into  the  soup,  and  add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  bay  leaf. 
Cover,  and  cook  for  three  hours  longer.  At  the  end  of  that 
time  take  out  the  meat  and  bay  leaf,  and  rub  the  soup 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander.  Return  to  the  fire  and 
make  very  hot.    Serve  with  crisped  bread. 

The  soup  must  be  stirred  from  the  bottom  frequently  all 
the  time  it  is  cooking,  and  it  must  never  more  than  bubble 
gently.  If  it  cooks  too  rapidly  it  will  get  too  thick  and  be 
in  danger  of  scorching. 


Cream  of  Dried  Pea  Soup. 

Make  the  same  as  the  dried  pea  soup ;  and,  after  strain- 
ing,, add  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper. 
Stir  all  the  time  until  it  boils;  then  strain  again,  and  serve. 


92       MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Bean  Soup. 


]/2  pint  of  white  beans. 

%  pound  of  lean  salt  pork. 

3  quarts  of  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  carrot. 
I  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  or 

butter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Salt  to  taste. 


Make  this  the  same  as  the  dried  pea  soup. 

Cream  of  Bean  Soup. 

Make  the  same  as  bean  soup ;  then  add  a  pint  of  hot 
milk,  and  boil  up  once.    Strain,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Soup. 

i  pint  of  oysters.  %.  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  pint  of  milk.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
y2  pint  of  cold  water.  Salt. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Put  a  strainer  over  a  bowl  and  turn  the  oysters  into  it. 
Pour  the  water  over  the  oysters  and  stir  with  a  spoon  until 
all  the  liquid  has  passed  through  the  strainer.  Turn  the 
oysters  into  a  dish  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 

Reserve  a  gill  of  the  milk,  and,  pouring  the  remainder  in 
the  double-boiler,  set  it  on  the  fire.  Put  the  oyster  liquor 
in  a  stewpan  and  heat  slowly,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 
Mix  the  cold  milk  with  the  flour,  and,  stirring  into  the 
boiling  milk,  cook  for  ten  minutes.  When  the  oyster 
liquor  boils,  skim  it.  When  the  flour  and  milk  have 
cooked  for  ten  minutes,  add  the  oysters,  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  oyster  liquor,  and  continue  cooking  until  the 
oysters  curl  on  the  edge  and  are  plump.    Serve  at  once. 

It  is  well  to  provide  toasted  or  crisped  crackers  with  this 
soup. 


SOUPS. 


95 


Clam  Soup. 


I  pint  of  clams. 

1  pint  of  milk. 
]/2  pint  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs. 


i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  floui. 
i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Separate  the  heads  from  the  clams,  and  put  them  on  to 
simmer  with  the  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  the  flour 
and  butter  together,  and  stir  into  the  water  in  which  the 
heads  of  the  clams  are  cooking.  Now  add  the  seasoning 
and  milk ;  and  when  the  mixture  boils,  strain  into  another 
stewpan.  Chop  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams  and  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Now  add  the  cracker  crumbs.  Boil  the  soup 
for  three  minutes,  and  serve. 


Clam  Chowder. 


I  pint  of  clams, 
i  pint  of  water. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

3  gills  of  potato  cubes. 

2  ounces  of  sliced  salt  pork. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

3  Boston  butter  crackers. 


Wash  the  clams  in  the  water  and  turn  both  into  a  strainer 
which  has  been  placed  over  a  bowl.  Cut  the  soft  parts  of 
the  clams  from  the  hard,  and  put  away  in  a  cold  place. 
Chop  the  hard  parts  fine  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan. 
Strain  on  these,  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  the  clam 
water ;  after  which  place  it  on  the  fire  and  cook  gently  for 
twenty  minutes.  Fry  the  sliced  pork  for  ten  minutes  ;  then 
add  the  onion,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Take  the 
pork  and  onions  from  the  pan  and  add  to  the  chopped 
clams.  Put  the  flour  into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan,  and 
stir  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  clam 
broth  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Now  put  the  po- 
tato cubes  in  a  stewpan  and  strain  the  clam  broth  over 
them.     Season  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  for 


94      miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


twenty  minutes.  Split  the  crackers  and  soak  them  in  the 
milk  for  four  minutes.  Add  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams 
and  the  milk  and  crackers  to  the  cooking  mixture.  When 
all  boils  up,  serve. 

The  milk  may  be  omitted  and  half  a  pint  of  strained 
tomato  be  added  when  the  potatoes  and  broth  have  been 
cooking  for  ten  minutes. 


Fish  Chowder. 


2  pounds  of  fish. 

3  ounces  of  salt  pork. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
3  gills  of  potato  cubes, 
i  pint  of  water. 


y2  pint  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
)/$  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

3  Boston  butter  crackers. 


First,  skin  the  fish ;  and  after  cutting  all  the  flesh  from 
the  bones  and  cutting  it  in  small  pieces,  cook  the  bones 
with  the  water  for  ten  minutes.  Cut  the  pork  into  thin 
slices  and  fry  until  crisp  and  brown.  On  taking  it  from  the 
pan,  put  the  onions  into  the  fat,  and  cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  in  a  stewpan  and  sprinkle 
half  the  potatoes,  fried  onions,  and  salt  and  pepper  on 
this.  Put  in  the  remainder  of  the  fish,  and  finish  with  the 
rest  of  the  potatoes,  onions,  salt,  and  pepper.  Into  the  fat 
remaining  in  the  frying-pan  put  the  flour,  and  stir  until 
smooth  and  frothy.  Gradually  pour  on  this  the  water  in 
which  the  fish  bones  were  boiled.  Stir  until  it  boils  ;  then 
pour  on  the  fish  mixture. 

Lay  the  slices  of  pork  on  top,  and  cook  gently  for  twenty 
minutes.  Split  the  crackers  and  soak  them  in  the  milk  for 
four  minutes.  Remove  the  slices  of  pork  and  turn  crackers 
and  milk  into  the  chowder.    When  this  boils  up,  serve. 

For  a  change,  the  milk  may  be  omitted  and  half  a  pint 
of  tomatoes  be  added.  Any  kind  of  light  fish  will  answer, 
such  as  cod,  haddock,  catfish,  whitefish,  etc. 


SOUPS. 


95 


Salt  Codfish  Chowder. 


i  pint  of  milk. 
l/2  pint  of  shredded  codfish. 
3  gills  of  potato  cubes 
3  ounces  of  salt  pork. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Salt. 

3  Boston  crackers. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 

Wash  the  fish  and  cut  it  into  two-inch  lengths.  Tear 
these  in  pieces,  and,  covering  with  cold  water,  soak  for 
three  or  four  hours.  Slice  the  pork,  and  cook  in  the  frying- 
pan  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  onion  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Now  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth ;  after 
which,  stir  in  one  gill  of  water.  Put  the  potatoes  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  pour  the  mixture  in  the  frying-pan  over  them. 
Season  with  the  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  take  out 
the  slices  of  pork  and  add  the  fish,  milk,  and  the  crackers 
split.  Cook  gently  for  half  an  hour,  being  careful  to  let 
the  chowder  only  bubble  at  one  side  of  the  stewpan.  At 
the  end  of  the  half- hour,  taste  before  serving,  to  be  sure  to 
have  it  salt  enough. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


FISH. 

FRESH  fish  should  frequently  be  substituted  for  meat. 
For  those  who  live  in  seaboard  towns  there  is  no 
trouble  in  obtaining  a  variety.  Every  inland  place  has  its 
own  peculiar  species,  which  should  have  precedence  over 
other  kinds ;  for  the  first  thing  to  be  taken  into  account  is 
freshness.  Fish  brought  from  a  distance  deteriorates  with 
the  handling  it  receives  and  the  time  it  is  out  of  the  water. 

The  lighter  the  fish,  the  greater  the  variety  of  modes  by 
which  it  may  be  cooked.  It  also  may  be  served  more  fre- 
quently without  one's  becoming  tired  of  it.  For  example, 
at  the  Isles  of  Shoals  visitors  are  offered  broiled  scrod  every 
day  in  the  week,  yet  they  do  not  weary  of  the  dish  in  a 
stay  of  months.  At  Nantucket  broiled  bluefish  is  served 
daily,  and  it  is  so  delicious  that  its  appearance  three  times 
a  day  would  at  first  be  hailed  with  pleasure  ;  but  after  a  short 
time  the  appetite  would  become  palled,  because  the  fish  is 
rich.  It  would  be  the  same  with  the  freshest  and  most 
toothsome  salmon  and  mackerel.  A  rich  fish  satiates  much 
sooner  than  a  lighter  and  poorer  kind,  and  for  this  reason 
it  is  advisable  to  avoid  having  the  richer  varieties  frequently. 
Of  course,  the  poorer  kinds  require  more  and  richer  sauces 
than  salmon,  mackerel,  or  bluefish.  White-fish,  like  cod, 
haddock,  cusk,  halibut,  and  flounders,  is  improved  by  the 
addition  of  sauces  made  of  milk,  cream,  or  white  stock. 

Boiling  is  the  least  desirable  mode  of  preparing  fish,  be- 
cause it  causes  the  greatest  loss  of  flavor  and  nutriment. 
A  fine  sauce  is  needed  to  make  the  dish  satisfactory.  But 


FISH. 


97 


boiling  has  one  merit :  the  remains  of  the  fish  after  the 
first  meal  are  in  better  form  for  use  in  little  dishes  of  many 
kinds  than  they  are  if  any  other  way  of  cooking  be  em- 
ployed. Small  fish,  like  brook  trout,  smelts,  etc.,  are  best 
when  fried. 

How  to  Boil  Fish. 

Fresh  fish  should  always  be  put  on  to  cook  in  salted 
boiling  water.  A  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  in  the  water 
makes  the  flesh  of  the  fish  firmer  and  improves  the  flavor. 
For  some  tastes  the  flavor  is  improved  still  more  by  putting 
in  the  water,  tied  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  minced  onion,  carrot,  and  celery,  two  bay  leaves, 
a  sprig  each  of  thyme,  parsley,  and  summer  savory,  a  small 
bit  of  cinnamon,  and  two  whole  cloves.  There  should  be 
only  water  enough  to  cover  the  fish.  If  there  be  a  fish- 
kettle  with  a  tray,  lay  the  fish  in  the  tray  and  do  not  wrap 
it  in  a  cloth.  If,  however,  there  be  no  regular  fish-kettle, 
pin  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  cloth,  put  a  large  plate  in  the 
bottom  of  a  large  flat  saucepan,  and  lay  the  fish  on  this. 
A  thick  square  of  fish  will  take  longer  to  cook  than  the 
same  number  of  pounds  cut  from  a  long,  slender  fish.  A 
small  cod,  haddock,  bluefish,  lake  trout,  salmon  trout,  white- 
fish,  etc.,  weighing  from  three  to  five  pounds,  will  require 
thirty  minutes'  cooking.  The  water  should  bubble  only  at 
the  side  of  the  saucepan.  A  large  fish  of  the  same  kind, 
weighing  six  or  eight  pounds,  would  require  only  ten  minutes' 
more  time.  A  thick  square  or  cube  of  halibut  or  salmon, 
weighing  from  three  to  five  pounds,  would  require  forty 
minutes'  cooking ;  and  if  it  weighed  six  or  eight  pounds,  it 
would  require  an  hour.  If  the  fish  be  put  into  cold  water 
the  juices  will  be  drawn  out.  The  fish  will  be  broken  if 
the  water  be  allowed  to  boil  hard  during  the  cooking.  A 
good  sauce  should  always  be  served  with  boiled  fish. 


7 


98       miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Baked  Fish. 


yz  pint  of  cracker  crumbs. 
y2  pint  cold  water. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory. 


i  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 
3  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 
A  fish  weighing  about  four  or  five 
pounds. 


For  the  dressing,  mix  the  cracker  crumbs,  herbs,  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter  together ;  then  moisten  with  water,  and 
add  the  onion  juice.  Have  the  fish  split  and  drawn,  but 
leave  on  the  head  and  tail.  Cut  off  the  fins  and  scrape  off 
any  scales  that  may  still  cling  to  it.  Wash  and  wipe  dry ; 
then  rub  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  into  it,  put  the  dressing 
in  the  opening,  and  pin  together  with  a  skewer.  Cut  slits 
on  the  top  of  the  fish,  about  two  inches  long  and  half  an 
inch  deep.  Cut  the  salt  pork  in  strips  and  fit  them  into 
these  slits. 

Butter  a  flat  tin  sheet  and  place  in  the  dripping-pan. 
Lay  the  fish  in  the  pan,  having  uppermost  the  side  contain- 
ing the  pork.  Dredge  with  pepper,  salt,  and  flour.  Put 
enough  hot  water  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  bottom,  and  place 
in  the  oven.  Bake  for  forty-five  minutes,  basting  every 
fifteen  generously  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan  and  lightly  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  When  done,  lift  the  tin  from  the 
dripping-pan  and  slide  the  fish  upon  a  warm  dish.  Serve 
with  brown,  tomato,  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Fish  that  cannot  be  stuffed,  such  as  halibut,  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  Three  pounds  of  halibut  would 
be  equivalent  to  a  five-pound  cod  or  haddock. 

In  giving  the  rule  for  so  large  a  fish,  allowance  was  made 
for  the  leaving  of  enough  cold  fish  to  make  a  dish  of  escal- 
oped  fish  the  next  day. 


FISH. 


99 


Baked  Salt  Mackerel. 


I  salt  mackerel  of  medium  size. 

3  gills  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


i  level  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Wash  the  mackerel  and  soak  it  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
having  the  split  side  down.  In  the  morning  put  the  fish, 
split  side  up,  in  a  shallow  baking  pan.  Pour  the  milk  over 
it,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  the  mackerel  has 
been  cooking  for  twenty  minutes,  mix  the  butter,  flour,  and 
pepper,  and  stir  the  mixture  into  the  milk  m  the  pan.  Cook 
ten  minutes  longer ;  then  slide  the  fish  out  on  a  hot  dish 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.    Serve  hot. 

This  dish  is  suitable  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  dinner,  or 
supper.    Serve  with  it  potatoes  in  some  form. 


How  Fish  should  be  Broiled. 

Simple  as  is  the  work  of  broiling  a  piece  of  fish,  it  is  more 
often  done  badly  than  well.  If  not  cooked  enough  the  fish 
is  extremely  disagreeable  to  the  taste,  and  if  cooked  too 
much  it  is  hard  and  dry.  It  is  always  best  to  have  an  exact 
rule  as  to  the  time  it  shall  be  cooked ;  when  the  fish  is  put 
on  the  fire,  look  at  the  clock,  and  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  is 
done. 

A  split  fish,  such  as  shad,  whitefish,  mackerel,  scrod, 
bluefish,  etc.,  should  be  timed  according  to  the  thick- 
ness. If  the  fire  be  bright  and  hot,  a  fish  an  inch  thick 
can  be  cooked  twelve  minutes.  If  two  inches  thick,  it  will 
take  twenty  minutes.  Of  course,  when  the  fire  is  dull  it 
will  take  longer. 

Always  season  fish  with  salt  and  pepper  before  cooking. 
A  fish  with  the  skin  on  should  be  broiled  with  the  skin  side 
from  the  fire  until  the  last  five  minutes  of  cooking,  when 
that  side  can  be  turned  to  the  fire  ;  but  it  must  be  watched 
closely,  that  it  shall  not  burn. 


100      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


It  is  only  dry  halibut  that  requires  the  butter  and  flour 
before  broiling.  Many  people  prefer  to  dip  the  slice  of  fish 
in  olive  oil  rather  than  butter.  If  the  oil  be  used  it  must 
not  be  heated,  and  it  is  well  to  apply  it  to  the  fish  an  hour 
or  more  before  the  cooking. 

Various  sauces  are  often  served  with  broiled  fish,  but 
there  is  nothing  better  than  sweet  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  perhaps  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  or, 
the  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted  and  a  fresh  lemon  be  cut 
into  six  parts  as  a  garnish  for  the  dish.  Each  person  can 
then  use  as  much  of  the  acid  as  pleases  him. 


Broiled  Halibut. 


\yi  pounds  of  halibut. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
I  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


\y2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Have  the  halibut  cut  in  a  slice  about  an  inch  thick.  Put 
half  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  in  a  hot  soup  plate,  and 
stir  until  the  butter  is  melted.  Wash  and  wipe  the  fish, 
then  lay  it  in  the  plate  of  seasoned  butter.  When  one  side 
is  coated  with  the  butter,  turn  it  down  and  season  the  other. 
Dredge  lightly  with  flour,  place  in  the  double-broiler,  and 
cook  over  a  hot,  bright  fire  for  fourteen  minutes.  Put  on  a 
hot  dish  and  season  with  the  remaining  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  the  lemon  juice,  all  mixed.    Serve  very  hot. 


Fried  Fish. 


2  pounds  of  fish. 

3  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 

teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Flour. 


Have  the  fish  cut  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick.  Season 
these  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.  Cut  the 
pork  in  thin  slices  and  fry  until  crisp  and  brown.  Take 
the  pork  from  the  pan,  and  put  the  fish  in  the  hot  fat. 


FISH. 


101 


When  it  has  become  browned  on  one  side,  turn  it  and 
brown  the  other  side.  It  will  take  about  twelve  minutes  to 
fry  the  fish.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish  and  lay  the  slices  of 
pork  on  top.    Serve  hot. 

All  small  fish,  such  as  trout,  perch,  and  smelts,  may  be 
cooked  in  this  manner.  Draw  and  wash  them,  but  leave  on 
the  heads  and  tails  of  the  smelts  and  trout.  Some  kinds 
of  small  fish  need  to  be  skinned,  but  this  is  done  at  the 
market. 


Have  the  fish  free  from  skin  and  bones,  and  cut  it  into 
handsome  pieces.  Season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Beat  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate  and  dip  the  fish  in  it,  one  piece 
at  a  time,  getting  every  part  covered  with  the  egg ;  then 
roll  in  the  crumbs  and  lay  on  a  plate.  Have  enough  fat  in 
the  frying  kettle  to  float  the  fish.  When  it  becomes  so  hot 
that  blue  smoke  rises  from  the  centre,  put  in  the  fish  and 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Tartar  sauce  is  particularly  good  to  serve  with  breaded 
fish.  Smelts  are  especially  palatable  when  cooked  in  this 
manner. 


Breaded  Fish. 


y2  pint  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 
iV2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


2  pounds  of  any  kind  of  fish. 
Fat  for  frying. 


i  egg. 


Escaloped  Fish. 


J4  pint  of  cooked  fish, 
i  teaspoonful  (scant)  of  salt. 
y$  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Y2  tablespoonful  (scant)  of  flour. 
\l/z  gills  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread 


crumbs. 


Use  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  fish ;  but  the  wrhite  kinds, 
such  as  halibut,  cod,  haddock,  etc.,  are  the  best.    Have  it 


102        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


broken  into  flakes  and  freed  of  bones  and  skin.  Season  it 
with  half  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  generous  half  of  the 
butter  in  a  small  pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  it  is  hot 
add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and 
frothy  ;  then  gradually  add  the  milk.  Boil  up  once,  and 
stir  in  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of 
this  sauce  in  a  small  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  fish, 
and  follow  with  a  second  layer  of  sauce.  Now  put  in  the 
rest  of  the  fish  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce. 
Sprinkle  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  dot  with  the  other  half 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  serve  at  once. 

The  baking  dish  should  hold  nearly  a  pint. 


Salt  Codfish  in  Cream. 


]/2  pint  of  fish,  solidly  packed, 
i  Yz  gills  of  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  of  butter,  generous. 


i  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
l/$  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 


Cut  the  salt  fish  into  pieces  about  an  inch  and  a  half 
long,  and  tear  these  pieces  into  thin  strips.  Wash  them 
and,  putting  them  in  a  bowl  with  one  pint  of  cold  water,  let 
them  soak  over  night,  or  at  least  four  or  five  hours.  In  the 
morning  put  the  fish  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on 
the  fire.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  but  do  not  let  boil. 
Drain  off  the  water,  and,  after  adding  the  milk,  heat  again 
to  the  boiling  point. 

Beat  the  butter  and  flour  together  until  light  and  smooth. 
Stir  this  mixture  in  with  the  fish,  and  boil  up  once.  Add 
the  pepper,  and  also  some  salt  if  any  be  required.  Set 
back  where  the  fish  will  continue  to  cook,  but  not  boil,  for 
twenty  minutes. 

If  cream  be  plentiful  use  half  cream  and  half  milk. 
Serve  baked  or  mashed  potatoes  with  this  dish. 


FISH. 


Fish  Balls. 


I  cupful  of  raw  salt  codfish. 
6  potatoes  of  medium  size. 
I  egg. 


l/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

3^  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  level  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Tear  the  raw  fish  into  fine  shreds,  and  measure  out  a 
cupful.  Pare  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a  large  stew- 
pan.  Sprinkle  the  fish  on  top  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Cover,  and  cook  for  just  thirty  minutes.  Pour  off  every 
drop  of  the  water,  and  mash  the  fish  and  potato  together 
until  light  and  fine  ;  then  beat  into  the  mixture  the  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  the  egg,  which  should  first  be  well 
beaten.  Shape  into  small  balls,  and,  putting  them  in  the 
frying-basket,  cook  in  deep  fat  until  brown,  —  say  for  about 
four  or  five  minutes. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  follow  the  directions  exactly, 
and  to  have  the  fat  so  hot  when  the  fish  balls  are  put  in 
that  blue  smoke  rises  from  the  centre.  If  the  fat  be  not 
hot  enough,  or  the  water  be  not  all  drained  off,  or  if  too 
much  butter  be  used,  the  fish  balls  will  absorb  fat  and  be 
spoiled.  If  all  the  work  be  done  carefully,  the  dish  will  be 
perfect. 

Fish  Cakes. 


i  pint  of  minced  salt  codfish.  i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

i  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

(about  six  potatoes  of  me-  l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

dium  size).  2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 
y2  gill  of  hot  milk. 

Wash  the  fish  and  soak  it  over  night,  in  one  piece.  In 
the  morning  put  it  in  a  saucepan  and  on  the  fire,  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  When  the  water  is  heated 
to  the  boiling  point  set  the  saucepan  back  where  the  water 
will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Cook  the  fish  in  this  manner 
for  one  hour ;  then  take  from  the  water  and  cool.  When 


104      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


cold,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  and  chop  the  fish  fine. 
Pare  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  them.  Cook  for  just  thirty  minutes ; 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  mash  and  beat  the  potatoes 
with  a  fork.  Beat  the  fish,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk 
into  the  potato.  Shape  the  mixture  into  round,  fiat  cakes, 
and  fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  pork  fat. 

The  pork  is  cut  into  slices  and  fried  rather  slowly  until 
crisp  and  brown.  The  pan  is  then  placed  on  a  hotter  part 
of  the  fire,  and  the  pork  removed  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  fat 
is  smoking  hot,  the  cakes  should  be  put  in  to  brown. 
Serve  the  cakes  on  a  hot  dish,  garnishing  them  with  the 
slices  of  crisp  pork. 

This  is  a  generous  amount  for  three  people,  and  in  some 
families  it  may  be  found  that  half  the  amount  will  be 
enough. 

When  the  fish  cakes  are  for  breakfast,  cook,  cool,  and 
mince  the  fish  the  day  before.  Pare  the  potatoes,  and  let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  over  night.  These  preparations 
will  insure  having  the  fish  cakes  on  time  and  in  perfection 
for  an  early  breakfast. 


Free  the  cold  fish  from  skin  and  bones,  and  shred  it  fine 
with  a  fork.  Season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Mash 
the  potato  fine  and  beat  the  butter  and  fish  into  it.  Shape 
into  flat  cakes.  Have  the  pork  fat  smoking  hot  in  the 
frying-pan  and  put  in  the  fish  cakes.  When  brown  on  one 
side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.    Serve  immediately. 


Fresh  Fish  Cakes. 


]/2  pint  of  cooked  fresh  fish. 
]/2  pint  of  hot  mashed  potato, 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
x/%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  pork  fat 


FISH. 


I05 


Fried  Scallops. 


1  dozen  scallops. 


y$  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

%  pint  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 

Fat  for  frying. 


1  egg. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


After  seasoning  the  scallops  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
them  in  the  beaten  egg  and  roll  them  in  the  dried  bread 
crumbs.  Put  the  scallops  in  the  frying-basket  and  immerse 
the  basket  into  fat  so  hot  that  blue  smoke  rises  from  the 
centre.  Cook  for  two  minutes.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  serve  very  hot. 

Do  not  put  more  scallops  in  the  basket  than  can  be 
spread  on  the  bottom. 

Tartar  sauce  is  especially  good  for  this  dish. 


Put  a  strainer  over  a  bowl  and  turn  the  oysters  into  it. 
Drain  off  all  the  liquor,  and  tnen  pour  one  gill  of  water  over 
the  oysters.  Pour  this  liquor  into  a  stewpan,  being  careful 
not  to  turn  in  the  sandy  sediment.  Place  where  it  will 
heat  slowly,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  When  the  liquor 
boils,  skim  it,  and  set  back  where  it  will  keep  hot.  Mean- 
time heat  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point  in  the  double- 
boiler.  Add  the  hot  liquor,  oysters,  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  the  boiling  milk.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve 
immediately. 


Oyster  Stew. 


1  gill  of  water. 

\Yi  pints  of  oysters. 

\]/2  pints  of  milk. 


1%  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
X  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Salt. 


Oysters  on  Toast. 


1%  pints  of  oysters. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

}4  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


3  slices  of  toast. 


Salt. 


106      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Put  the  oysters  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When 
they  begin  to  boil,  skim  them  ;  then  add  the  seasonings. 
Have  the  toast  arranged  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  oysters 
over  it.    Serve  at  once. 


Heat  the  oysters  to  the  boiling  point  in  their  own  liquor ; 
then  turn  them  into  a  strainer,  which  should  be  placed  over 
a  bowl.  Put  a  gill  of  the  oyster  liquor  in  a  saucepan,  and 
heat  slowly.  Beat  one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter  and  flour 
together  until  light  and  smooth.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the 
hot  liquor,  and  cook  for  three  minutes ;  then  add  the  milk, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the 
drained  oysters.  Now  turn  the  oysters  into  rather  a  shallow 
escalop  dish.  Sprinkle  the  crumbs  over  them,  and  over 
the  crumbs  sprinkle  the  half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  broken 
in  bits.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
If  the  flavor  of  nutmeg  and  Parmesan  cheese  be  liked,  add 
to  the  sauce  one  teaspoonful  of  the  grated  cheese  and  a 
slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 


Oysters  au  Gratin. 


I  solid  pint  of  oysters. 
I  gill  of  oyster  liquor. 

gill  of  milk  or  cream. 
il/2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

}i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

yl  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

yz  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 


Bscaloped  Oysters. 


i%  solid  pints  of  oysters.  i%  gills  of  cracker  crumbs. 

2  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  but-   i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

ter.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Put  half  the  oysters  in  a  dish  that  will  hold  about  one 
quart.  Sprinkle  over  them  half  the  salt  and  pepper  and 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  broken  in  bits.    Spread  half 


FISH. 


107 


the  cracker  crumbs  over  this.  Now  put  in  the  remainder 
of  the  oysters,  salt,  pepper,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
butter.  Spread  the  remainder  of  the  cracker  crumbs  over 
this,  and  then  dot  with  the  remaining  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Pour  the  liquor  on  the  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


Drain  the  oysters,  and  season  them  with  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  the  crumbs  on  a  plate 
and  roll  the  oysters  in  them.  Beat  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate 
and  afterward  stir  the  milk  into  it.  Dip  the  oysters,  one  at 
a  time,  in  this  mixture,  and  roll  in  plenty  of  bread  crumbs. 
Place  them  on  a  platter  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  it 
is  time  to  cook  them,  put  a  layer  in  the  frying  basket  and 
plunge  into  fat  so  hot  that  blue  smoke  rises  from  the  centre. 
Cook  for  one  minute  and  a  half,  and  serve  at  once. 

Never  place  one  breaded  oyster  on  top  of  another  before 
they  have  been  fried. 

The  milk  may  be  omitted,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  ketchup  be  used  instead. 


Fried  Oysters. 


2  dozen  large  oysters. 

3  gills  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 


1  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Creamed  Oysters. 


\]/2  pints  of  oysters. 
3  gills  of  milk  or  cream. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Y$  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

A  tiny  piece  of  mace. 

l/2  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 


Put  the  milk  and  mace  in  the  double-boiler,  and  set  on 
the  fire.  Mix  the  flour  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
milk,  reserved  from  the  three  gills,  and  stir  into  the  boiling 


108     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

miik.  Cook  for  ten  minutes.  Heat  the  oysters  to  the  boil- 
ing point  in  their  own  liquor ;  then  skim  and  drain  them. 
Put  the  oysters,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice  into  the 
thickened  cream,  and  serve. 

If  milk  be  used,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  the 
thickened  milk. 

Lobster. 

Lobster  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  If  it  be  cooked,  the 
odor  should  be  fresh  and  the  shells  look  bright,  and  when 
the  tail  is  drawn  back  it  should  spring  into  position  again. 
If  the  lobster  be  bought  alive,  see  that  it  moves  lively.  To 
boil  it,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  cook  gently  from 
ten  to  twenty  minutes.  A  very  small  lobster  will  cook  in 
ten  minutes  and  a  large  one  in  twenty.  Cooking  a  lobster 
too  long  or  at  too  high  a  temperature  makes  it  tough,  dry, 
and  stringy.  When  it  is  impossible  to  get  the  fresh  lobster, 
the  canned  article  may  be  used  instead,  though  it  is  of  the 
greatest  importance  to  buy  only  the  goods  put  up  by  first- 
class  houses. 

Curry  of  Lobster. 


1%.  gills  of  lobster  meat. 

%  pint  of  meat  stock. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

I  generous  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Ye  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne. 
Ye  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper, 
i  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
i  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion. 
3  slices  of  toast. 


Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces  and  season  with  half  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  butter  and  onion  on  the  fire,  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  cook  until  the  onion  turns  a  straw  color ; 
then  add  the  flour  and  curry-powder  and  stir  until  brown. 
Gradually  add  the  stock  to  this,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Season  with  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cook  for  three  minutes.  Strain  this  into  a  saucepan,  and 
add  the  lobster.    Cook  for  five  minutes.    Cut  the  slices  of 


FISH. 


I OQ 


toast  in  strips  and  lay  in  a  warm  dish.  Pour  the  lobster 
over  these  and  serve  at  once. 

The  toast  may  be  omitted,  and  a  dish  of  boiled  rice  be 
served  with  the  curry. 


Fricassee  of  Lobster. 

A  fricassee  of  lobster  is  prepared  the  same  as  a  curry ; 
omitting,  however,  the  curry-powder  and  onion.  Milk  may 
be  substituted  for  the  meat  stock. 


Breaded  Lobster. 

1  large  lobster.  l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  egg.  Dried  bread  crumbs. 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Fat  for  frying. 

Split  the  claws  and  tail  and  set  aside.  Take  the  meat 
from  the  large  joints  and  the  body,  and  chop  fine.  Mix 
with  this  one  fourth  of  the  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  "  torn-alley."  Shape  this  into  three  small 
flat  cakes.  Season  the  pieces  of  lobster  with  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate.  Dip  the  pieces  of 
lobster  and  the  little  cakes,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  egg ; 
then  roll  in  the  bread  crumbs,  and,  after  arranging  on  a  plate, 
put  in  a  cool  place  until  the  hour  to  cook  them.  When 
that  time  comes,  put  the  breaded  lobster  in  the  frying 
basket  and  cook  in  fat  until  crisp  and  brown  (about  two 
minutes).    Serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 


Escaloped  Lobster. 


3  gills  of  lobster. 
%  pint  of  cream  or  stock. 
\]/z  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
%  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Y%  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter  and 
all  the  flour.    Have  the  stock  or  cream  hot,  and  pour  it 


110     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


gradually  on  the  butter  and  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Add  half  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  for  one  minute. 
Have  the  lobster  cut  fine,  and  seasoned  with  the  other  half 
of  the  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  sauce  has  cooked  for 
one  minute,  add  the  lobster.  Now  pour  the  mixture  into  a 
shallow  escalop  dish.  Sprinkle  the  grated  bread  crumbs 
on  this,  and  then  dot  with  the  half  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

If  cream  be  used,  measure  the  flour  lightly  j  but  if  stock 
be  taken,  allow  a  generous  tablespoonful. 

Escaloped  Crabs. 

Prepare  the  same  as  escaloped  lobster;  using,  however, 
only  half  a  pint  of  crab  meat. 

Escaloped  Shrimps. 

Prepare  this  dish  in  the  same  manner  as  escaloped  lob- 
ster ;  substituting,  however,  shelled  shrimps  for  the  lobster. 


l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire  in  the  double-boiler.  Put  the 
clams  in  a  strainer  and  pour  a  quart  of  cold  water  over 
them.  Let  them  drain  for  about  one  minute,  and  then, 
turning  them  into  a  stewpan,  place  them  on  the  stove. 
Beat  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream,  and  stir  this  mixture 
into  the  pan  containing  the  hot  clams.  Add  the  hot  milk, 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  cook  for  two  minutes  longer.  Have 
the  crackers  soaked  for  two  minutes  in  cold  water,  and 
then  toasted.  Lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  and 
when  the  clams  are  stewed  pour  them  over  the  toast. 


Stewed  Clams. 


I  pint  of  shelled  clams. 

i  gill  of  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
3  Boston  butter  crackers. 


FISH. 


I  I  I 


Roast  Clams. 

Wash  the  clam  shells  thoroughly  and  drain  them  in  the 
colander  for  a  few  minutes.  Spread  them  in  an  old  drip- 
ping-pan and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven.  The  shells  will 
begin  to  open  in  five  or  eight  minutes.  Take  them  from 
the  oven,  and,  holding  the  shell  over  a  warm  dish,  let  the 
clam  and  juice  drop  out.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  serve  very  hot,  with  thin  slices  of  buttered 
brown  bread. 

When  possible,  get  the  clams  twenty-four  hours  before 
they  are  to  be  used,  and  after  washing  them  thoroughly 
put  them  in  a  pan  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them ;  then,  for  a  peck  of  clams,  sprinkle  in  half  a  pint  of 
corn  meal.    This  will  make  the  clams  plump  and  tender. 

Steamed  Clams. 

Prepare  the  clams  as  for  roasting,  but  put  them  in  a  dish 
and  place  it  in  the  steamer.  When  the  shells  open  the  clams 
are  done. 


CHAPTER  X. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 

BOILING. 

IN  boiling  meats  the  temperature  of  the  liquid  should  be 
kept  at  about  the  boiling  point  or  a  few  degrees  lower ; 
that  is,  the  water  should  bubble  gently  at  one  side  of  the 
pot  or  stewpan.  Great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  water 
shall  never  boil  rapidly,  and  that  the  temperature  shall  not 
be  much  lower  than  that  indicated  by  a  slight  bubbling  at 
the  side  of  the  stewpan.  The  meat  and  liquid  will  both  be 
spoiled  if  kept  for  any  length  of  time  in  a  closed  vessel  with 
the  temperature  too  low.  A  piece  of  meat  cooked  in  water 
that  boils  rapidly  all  the  time  will  be  hard,  dry,  and  stringy, 
no  matter  how  long  it  is  cooked  or  how  tender  and  good  it 
was  originally  •  but  even  a  tough,  dry  piece  will  be  tender 
and  juicy  if  cooked  at  the  temperature  indicated  by  the 
water's  bubbling  at  one  side  of  the  pot.  All  meats  will  be 
juicier  if  they  be  allowed  to  cool,  or  even  partially  to  cool, 
in  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  boiled.  The  dish  in  which 
a  food  material  is  cooling  must  always  be  uncovered  until 
the  substance  is  perfectly  cold. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 

Wipe  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth  a  leg  of  mutton  weigh- 
ing between  eight  and  ten  pounds,  and  put  it  in  a  deep 
kettle  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Set  the  kettle 
where  the  water  will  boil  rapidly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Skim  the  water  when  it  begins  to  boil.    At  the  end  of  the 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


113 


fifteen  minutes  draw  the  kettle  back  where  the  water  will 
only  bubble.  If  the  meat  be  desired  very  rare,  cook  it  for 
an  hour  and  a  half;  but  if  you  want  it  rather  well  done, 
cook  it  for  two  hours,  being  careful  that  the  water  only 
bubbles  except  during  the  first  fifteen  minutes. 

W  hen  the  mutton  is  done  place  it  on  a  warm  dish.  Pour 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  sauce  over  it,  and,  if  conve- 
nient, garnish  with  parsley.  Send  to  the  table  at  once  with 
the  caper  sauce  and  vegetables. 

Of  course,  this  is  more  meat  than  three  persons  would 
want,  but  if  only  half  a  leg  be  boiled  the  result  will  not  be 
very  satisfactory ;  therefore  it  would  be  better  to  roast  or 
steam  a  part  of  the  leg,  unless  the  family  be  large. 

Steamed  Mutton, 

When  the  family  is  so  small  that  it  is  necessary  to  cut  a 
leg  of  mutton,  it  is  better  to  steam  than  to  boil  it.  Place  the 
piece  of  mutton  on  a  kitchen  plate,  the  cut  side  down.  Set 
the  plate  in  the  steamer  and  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Cover  closely,  and  keep  the  water  boiling  until  the  meat  is 
done.  A  piece  weighing  about  four  or  five  pounds  will  be 
cooked  rather  rare  in  one  hour.  If  liked  well  done,  cook 
it  longer.    Serve  the  same  as  boiled  leg  of  mutton. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. 

A  piece  of  corned  beef  will  take  about  the  same  time  to 
cook,  whether  it  weigh  four  pounds  or  ten.  Wash  the  meat 
and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover  it  generously.  When  the  water  begins  to  boil,  skim 
thoroughly ;  then  draw  the  stewpan  back  to  a  place  where 
the  water  will  just  bubble  for  five  hours.  Never  let  the 
water  boil  hard,  but  it  must  not  get  much  below  the  boiling 
point  at  any  time.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  pressed,  take  it 
from  the  boiling  water  and  place  it  on  a  flat  dish.    Put  a 

8 


114     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


tin  pan  or  sheet  on  top  of  the  hot  meat,  and  on  this  place 
two  bricks  or  some  other  weight.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place. 
When  the  meat  is  cold,  trim  the  edges,  using  a  sharp  knife. 
The  trimmings  may  be  used  for  a  corned  beef  hash. 

Spiced  Corned  Beef. 

6  pounds  of  the  plate  piece  of  3  pints  of  water. 

beef,  3  dozen  whole  allspice. 

1  pint  of  coarse  salt.  2  dozen  whole  cloves. 


This  is  a  cheap  and  savory  dish  for  luncheon  and  tea. 
Put  the  water  and  salt  in  a  stewpan  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Stir  frequently  until  the  water  boils,  and  then  skim  care- 
fully. Take  from  the  fire  and  set  away  to  cool.  Remove 
the  bones  from  the  meat  by  slipping  a  sharp  knife  between 
the  flesh  and  bone  and  cutting  the  meat  from  the  bone. 
Place  the  beef  in  a  stone  jar  or  earthen  bowl,  and  when  the 
brine  is  cold  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Cover  the  dish  and  set 
it  away  in  a  cool  place  for  six  or  eight  days.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  remove  the  meat  and  wipe  it.  Spread  it  on  a 
board  and  sprinkle  the  spice  over  it.  Roll  up  and  tie  firmly. 
Place  this  roll  in  a  kettle  and  cover  it  with  boiling  water. 
When  the  water  begins  to  boil,  (it  will  at  first  be  somewhat 
cooled  by  the  meat,)  skim  it  carefully;  then  set  the  kettle 
back  where  the  water  will  just  bubble  for  six  hours.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  take  the  beef  from  the  kettle  and  place  it 
on  a  large  dish.  Put  upon  it  a  tin  pan  and  weights,  (two 
bricks  will  be  sufficient,)  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  The 
meat  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices  when  served. 

In  New  York  many  of  the  marketmen  salt  and  spice  beef 
for  their  customers.  If  one  can  get  a  plate  piece  of  corned 
beef  that  has  not  been  too  long  in  brine,  it  will  answer  just 
as  well  as  a  fresh  piece,  and  save  the  housekeeper  the 
trouble  of  corning  it.  Almost  any  marketman  will  willingly 
remove  the  bones  for  a  customer. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT.  II5 
Boiled  Ham. 

Wash  the  ham  and  then  soak  it  in  cold  water  for  ten  or 
twelve  hours.  Put  it  on  to  cook  in  cold  water.  When  the 
water  begins  to  boil,  skim  it,  and  draw  the  kettle  back  to  a 
part  of  the  range  where  the  water  will  only  bubble  gently. 
Cook  the  ham  for  five  hours  ;  then  take  it  up  and  draw  off 
the  skin.  Place  the  skinned  ham  in  a  dripping-pan  and 
sprinkle  over  it  one  cupful  of  fine  dried  crumbs  mixed  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cook  it  slowly  in  the  oven 
for  one  hour. 

If  only  a  part  of  a  ham  is  to  be  boiled,  it  would  be  better 
to  steam  it  than  to  put  it  in  the  water.  Wash  and  soak  it ; 
then  steam  it  the  same  as  mutton,  cooking  it  for  six  hours. 
Brown  it  in  the  oven  if  you  like. 

Fresh  Tongue. 

Wash  the  tongue  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  it  generously.  Add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  salt.  When  the  water  begins  to  boil,  skim  carefully 
and  draw  the  stewpan  back  to  a  place  where  the  water  will 
bubble  gently  for  five  hours.  Take  the  tongue  from  the 
boiling  water  and  plunge  it  into  cold  water.  Draw  off  the 
rough  skin,  beginning  at  the  roots  of  the  tongue.  Place  the 
tongue  on  a  dish,  cover  it  lightly  with  a  coarse  towel,  and 
put  it  in  a  cold  place. 

Smoked  Tongues. 

Cook  a  smoked  tongue  exactly  the  same  as  a  ham,  except 
that  it  is  not  to  be  browned  in  the  oven.  It  will  require  live 
hours'  time  to  boil  it. 

Pickled  Tongue. 

Treat  a  pickled  tongue  the  same  as  a  piece  of  corned 
beef.    It  will  require  five  hours'  cooking. 


Il6      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


SCIENCE  IN  ROASTING  MEAT. 

A  roast  of  meat,  be  it  rare  or  well  done,  should  be  juicy 
and  tender.  One  should  not  roast  a  tough  piece  of  meat ; 
stewing,  braising,  or  boiling  is  better,  because  the  cooking 
can  be  continued  for  a  long  time  at  a  low  temperature,  and 
this  method  will  make  the  toughest  piece  of  meat  tender. 
The  meat  always  should  be  exposed  to  a  high  temperature  at 
first,  that  the  surface  may  become  hardened  and  the  juices 
protected.  If  the  high  temperature  be  continued  all  the 
time  of  cooking,  the  meat  will  become  hard,  dry,  and 
stringy,  as  far  as  the  heat  has  penetrated.  It  will  be  seen, 
therefore,  that  the  high  temperature  should  be  kept  up  only 
long  enough  to  form  a  thin,  hard  crust  on  the  meat.  From 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  will  suffice  for  this.  The  tempera- 
ture should  then  be  lowered  by  closing  the  draughts  of  the 
range. 

Basting  is  another  important  item  in  roasting.  If  one 
use  no  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  baste  only  with  the 
fat  that  drops  from  the  meat  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  the 
roast  will  have  a  beautiful  glossy  brown  surface  when  it  is 
done  ;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  fat  can  be  heated 
to  a  much  higher  point  than  water,  and  that  basting  with 
this  boiling  hot  fat  will  help  to  harden  the  piece  of  meat. 

If  a  small  quantity  of  water  be  kept  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dripping-pan,  the  drippings  from  the  meat,  mingling  with 
it,  will  be  kept  at  a  low  temperature,  so  that,  if  the  meat  be 
freely  basted  with  this  mixture  every  fifteen  minutes,  the 
surface  of  the  piece  of  meat  will  be  kept  moist,  and  at  a 
lower  temperature  than  when  basted  with  the  hot  fat,  or 
not  basted  at  all.  By  basting  with  this  mixture  of  drippings 
and  water,  the  heat  is  driven  from  the  surface  to  the  centre 
of  the  piece  of  meat,  insuring  a  roast  that  will  be  rare  from 
a  point  about  half  an  inch  from  the  surface  to  the  centre. 
Bear  these  facts  in  mind  when  roasting  meats. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


11/ 


How  to  Roast  Meat  in  the  Oven. 

Have  a  dripping-pan  of  Russian  iron  and  a  meat-rack 
three  or  four  inches  shorter  than  the  pan. 


Examine  the  piece  of  meat,  and  if  there  be  any  places 
that  have  become  tainted  trim  them  off  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Wipe  the  meat  with  a  wet  towel.  Now  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  dredge  lightly  with  flour. 

All  the  seasoning  must  be  clone  with  the  meat  resting  on 
the  rack,  that  the  stray  particles  may  fall  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  Dredge  flour  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  until  the 
surface  is  white. 

Have  the  oven  very  hot  (about  400  or  450  degrees),  and 
place  the  meat  in  it.  Watch  closely,  and  as  soon  as  the 
flour  in  the  pan  turns  dark  brown  pour  in  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  The  flour  may  brown 
in  five  minutes,  yet  it  may  take  ten  or  more  for  this  process, 
the  time  depending  upon  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  When 
the  meat  is  brown  on  one  side,  baste  well,  and  turn  it  over 
to  brown  the  other  side.  When  the  meat  has  been  in  the 
oven  for  about  thirty  minutes,  close  the  draughts  to  reduce 
the  heat  of  the  oven. 

Baste  the  meat  every  fifteen  minutes  in  this  manner. 
With  a  long  spoon,  dip  up  the  liquid  from  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Continue  this  until  nearly 
all  has  been  absorbed  by  the  meat ;  then  dredge  lightly  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Now  pour  into  the  pan  enough  hot 
water  to  cover  the  bottom.  The  last  time  the  meat  is  basted 
omit  putting  the  water  in  the  pan,  and  at  the  end  of  fifteen 
minutes  all  the  liquid  will  be  evaporated.  Now  take  up  the 
meat  and  place  it  on  a  hot  platter.    Take  out  the  rack,  and 


DRIPPING-PAN. 


MEAT- RACK. 


I  1 8      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


then  pour  all  the  fat  from  the  pan  into  a  cup.  Put  half  a 
pint  of  hot  water  in  the  pan  and  set  on  top  of  the  range. 
Scrape  all  the  sediment  from  the  sides  and  bottom,  and 
thicken  this  gravy  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  smoothly 
mixed  with  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  simmer  for  two  minutes ;  then  strain  into  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  with  the  roast  meat. 

The  time  of  cooking  a  roast  depends  upon  the  shape  in 
which  it  is  cut  and  whether  it  is  to  be  rare  or  well  done. 
The  rule  of  so  many  minutes  for  each  pound  is  not  a  good 
one  ;  for  a  long,  thin,  rib  roast  might  weigh  just  the  same 
as  a  short,  thick  piece  cut  from  the  round,  rump,  or 
shoulder,  and,  of  course,  the  thin  piece  would  cook  much 
more  quickly  than  the  short  thick  piece. 

A  leg  of  mutton  weighing  eight  or  nine  pounds  should  be 
cooked  for  an  hour  and  three  quarters,  if  to  be  served  rare  ; 
if  to  be  medium  rare,  two  hours,  but  if  well  done  (a  pity  it 
should  ever  be  !)  two  hours  and  a  quarter.  Half  a  leg  of 
mutton,  weighing  about  four  pounds,  should  be  cooked  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.    The  meat  will  be  rare. 

Roast  Rib  of  Beef. 

For  three  persons  one  rib  will  be  enough.  Wipe  the  meat 
with  a  damp  towel.  Place  a  meat-rack  in  a  dripping-pan 
and  lay  the  beef  on  it.  Dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour, 
turning  the  meat  over  in  order  that  every  part  shall  receive 
a  portion  of  the  coating.  Dredge  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
lightly  with  the  flour  and  salt.  Set  the  pan  in  a  very  hot 
oven,  and  watch  carefully  to  prevent  the  flour  on  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  from  burning.  When  the  flour  turns  dark  brown, 
pour  in  enough  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  this 
will  be  in  from  two  to  five  minutes  after  the  pan  is  placed 
in  the  oven.  After  the  water  has  been  added  let  the  meat 
cook  awhile,  and  then  baste  it.  To  baste,  draw  the  pan  out 
of  the  oven  and  tip  it  a  little,  that  all  the  gravy  shall  flow  to 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


119 


one  end  of  the  pan.  With  a  long-handled  spoon,  dip  up 
this  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Continue  this  until 
the  entire  piece  is  well  moistened.  Now  dredge  the  meat 
lightly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Pour  into  the  pan 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  bottom,  and  return  to  the 
oven.  At  the  end  of  a  quarter  of  an  hour  draw  the  pan  out 
again,  turn  the  meat  over,  and  baste  as  before.  Add  some 
water  and  then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven.  Now  reduce  the 
heat  by  shutting  the  draughts,  and  baste  every  fifteen  min- 
utes in  the  manner  described.  Do  not  use  any  water  the 
last  time.  The  meat  should  cook  in  all  one  hour  if  wanted 
rather  rare.  When  the  beef  is  done,  take  it  up  and  place  it 
on  a  warm  dish.  Pour  all  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan, 
and,  after  setting  the  pan  on  the  range,  pour  into  it  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Scrape  all  the  brown  sediment  from 
the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  pan.  Mix  one  teaspoonful  of 
flour  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  gradually 
pour  this  mixture  into  the  dripping-pan,  stirring  all  the 
while.  It  may  not  take  all  the  mixture  of  flour  and  water 
to  thicken  the  gravy.  Stop  when  the  gravy  is  about  as 
thick  as  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strain 
into  a  hot  bowl. 

If  all  this  work  be  properly  done,  the  beef  will  be  rare 
and  juicy,  and  the  gravy  rich,  brown,  and  smooth. 

Roast  Lamb. 

Lamb,  being  immature  meat,  should  be  rather  well  done. 
The  spring  lambs  are  so  small  that  a  leg  will  not  make  a 
burdensome  roast  in  a  small  family.  The  loin  and  breast 
make  good  small  roasts.  Roast  the  lamb  according  to  the 
rule  given  for  roast  rib  of  beef.  Serve  with  the  made 
gravy  and  mint  sauce.  Asparagus,  peas,  young  beets,  sum- 
mer squash,  and  any  delicate  summer  vegetable,  may  be 
served  with  lamb. 


120        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Roast  Mutton. 

Mutton  is  roasted  like  beef.  For  a  small  roast  the  loin 
or  breast  is  good.  A  leg  of  mutton  may  be  cut  into  two 
parts,  using  one  for  a  roast  and  the  other  for  steaming. 
Mutton  should  always  be  cooked  rare  and  served  hot. 
Currant  jelly  should  be  provided  with  a  roast.  The  most 
appropriate  vegetables  are  potatoes,  onions,  mashed  turnips, 
rice,  squash,  tomatoes  in  any  form,  sweet  potatoes,  Lima 
beans,  canned  corn,  etc. 

Stuffed  Mutton. 

Make  the  dressing  given  for  roast  veal,  substituting  a  gen- 
erous tablespoonful  of  butter  for  the  chopped  pork,  and 
adding  also  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice.  Have  the 
bone  removed  from  half  of  a  leg  of  mutton.  Cut  deep 
incisions  in  the  inside  of  the  leg,  and  press  the  dressing 
into  these.  Sew  up  the  leg,  and  roast  the  same  as  directed 
for  roast  beef,  cooking  the  meat  an  hour  and  a  half.  The 
same  vegetables  as  suggested  for  plain  roast  mutton  are 
suitable  for  the  stuffed  leg. 

Roast  Veal. 


5  pounds  of  loin  or  breast  of  veal, 
i  pint  of  stale  bread. 
3  ounces  of  salt  pork. 
I  gill  of  cracker  crumbs. 


i  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  sage. 
Salt,  pepper,  flour. 


To  make  the  dressing.  Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  for 
two  or  three  hours.  Press  out  nearly  all  the  water  ;  then 
add  one  ounce  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  the  herbs,  and 
crackers.  Let  this  stand  while  the  meat  is  being  washed 
and  seasoned. 

The  parts  of  the  veal  that  are  good  for  roasting  are  the 
loin,  breast,  and  fillet.  Veal  requires  a  great  deal  of  season- 
ing, and  is  almost  always  sturTed.    It  must  be  remembered 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


12  1 


that  in  the  loin  and  breast  there  is  a  great  deal  of  bone. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  fillet  has  not  a  particle  of  waste 
except  a  small  bit  of  round  bone.  Veal  is  delicious  cold, 
and  the  cold  roast  meat  can  be  prepared  in  many  savory 
ways.  For  these  reasons,  if  the  family  do  not  object  to  the 
meat  in  all  forms,  it  would  be  well  to  get  a  roast  of  good 
size.  This  is  a  kind  of  meat  that  must  be  thoroughly 
done ;  not  even  a  pinkish  tinge  should  be  seen  after  it 
is  cooked. 

For  a  family  of  three  get  a  loin  or  breast  weighing 
about  four  or  five  pounds.  Wash  it  in  cold  water  and  wipe 
it  with  a  clean  towel.  Rub  into  it  one  table  spoonful  of 
salt,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper.  Stuff  it,  roll  it  up, 
and  skewer  it.  Place  on  a  rack  in  the  dripping-pan,  and 
lay  upon  it  two  ounces  of  salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cook 
for  two  hours  and  a  half,  following  the  directions  given  for 
roasting. 

Any  of  the  following  named  vegetables  may  be  served 
with  roast  veal :  potatoes,  rice,  macaroni,  spinach,  aspara- 
gus, beets,  turnips,  parsnips,  salsify,  string  beans,  shell 
beans,  grated  horseradish,  etc. 

Roast  Pork. 

The  piece  termed  the  sparerib  is  the  best  for  roasting. 
Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  towel.  Season  it  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  sage,  using  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage  to 
four  pounds  of  pork.  Follow  the  directions  for  roast  rib  of 
beef,  cooking  a  four  or  five  pound  roast  for  two  hours.  Any 
of  the  following  named  vegetables  may  be  served  with  roast 
pork :  white  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  rice,  hominy,  squash, 
turnips,  onions,  etc. ;  and  apple  sauce  always  is  desirable. 

Roast  Ham. 

Prepare  the  ham  the  same  as  for  boiled  ham ;  boiling  it 
for  only  three  hours,  however,  and  baking  it  slowly  for 
three  hours  more. 


122        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


BROILING. 

There  are  several  modes  of  broiling  :  over  clear  coals, 
before  the  coals,  or  under  a  bed  of  coals  ;  also  under  a 
sheet  of  flame,  as  in  a  gas  stove.  No  matter  what  the  fuel 
may  be  or  the  mode  of  broiling,  the  principles  are  the 
same.  A  steak  or  chop,  properly  broiled,  should  have  a 
thin,  well  browned  crust.  Beyond  this  crust  the  meat  should 
be  red  and  juicy ;  hardly  a  shade  rarer  at  the  centre  than 
near  the  surface.  A  common  mode  of  cooking  a  steak  is 
to  keep  it  over  the  coals  until  one  side  is  rather  well  done ; 
then  turn  it,  and  treat  the  other  side  in  the  same  manner. 
The  result  of  following  this  method  is,  that  as  far  as  the 
heat  has  penetrated  the  meat  is  hard  and  dry,  and  if  the 
steak  be  thick  it  will  be  almost  raw  in  the  centre. 

If  the  broiling  is  to  be  done  on  a  range  have  the  fire 
very  bright  and  clear.  Open  every  draught,  that  smoke 
and  flame  may  be  drawn  up  the  chim- 
ney. Place  the  piece  of  meat  in  the 
double-broiler,  and  hold  it  as  near  the 
coals  as  possible  until  the  surface  is 
brown,  turning  frequently.  It  will  take 
three  or  four  minutes  for  this.  Now 
raise  the  broiler  several  inches  above 
the  bed  of  coals,  and  continue  the 
cooking  until  the  meat  is  done.  The 
broiler  must  be  turned  often.  A  good 
rule  is  to  count  ten  slowly,  then  turn  the  broiler.  A  steak  or 
chop,  cut  a  little  more  than  an  inch  thick,  will  cook  rare  in 
ten  minutes  ;  if  liked  medium  well  done,  it  should  be  cooked 
for  twelve  minutes.  A  chicken  weighing  about  three  pounds 
will  require  slow  broiling  for  half  an  hour ;  or  the  chicken 
may  be  broiled  over  the  fire  until  a  rich  brown,  —  say  about 
fifteen  minutes,  —  then  put  it  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


123 


Veal  and  pork  must  be  broiled  slowly  until  cooked  thor- 
oughly. Chops  or  cutlets  cut  about  half  an  inch  thick  will 
cook  in  twelve  minutes. 

Steaks  and  chops  which,  before  cooking,  are  dredged 
lightly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  (lour,  will  be  much  richer 
than  those  cooked  without  any  seasoning.  Both  steaks  and 
chops  should  be  served  the  minute  they  come  from  the 
fire.  Season  them  with  salt  and  butter.  Never  put  them 
in  the  oven  for  the  purpose  of  melting  the  butter.  It  spoils 
the  dish.  If  a  steak  or  chop  must  wait  a  little  time  before 
it  is  served,  keep  it  warm,  but  do  not  add  the  butter  until 
serving  time. 

To  Broil  in  a  Frying  pan. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  one  has  no  means  of  broiling 
over  coals  or  under  heat.  The  next  best  thing  is  broiling  in 
a  pan.  For  example,  have  a  steak  cut  about  an  inch  thick. 
After  making  a  frying-pan  very  hot,  sprinkle  in  some  fine 
salt,  and  lay  the  steak  in  the  pan.  Cook  for  two  minutes ; 
then  lift  the  steak  up  and  sprinkle  the  pan  with  salt.  Turn 
the  steak  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Cook  the  piece  of 
meat  ten  minutes  in  all,  turning  every  two  minutes.  Put 
the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  and  season  with  salt  and  butter. 

Broiled.  Chops  with  Bacon. 

Bacon  that  is  to  be  broiled  should  be  boneless  and  fat, 
and  the  slices  should  be  about  as  thin  as  the  blade  of  a 
knife.  The  bars  of  the  broiler  should  be  very  close,  what 
is  called  an  oyster  broiler  being  best. 

Place  the  slices  of  bacon  in  the  broiler  and  over  a  clean 
fire,  having  all  the  draughts  open.  Cook  the  meat  for 
about  four  minutes,  turning  constantly.  The  fat  will  blaze 
up  continually,  but  will  not  hurt  the  bacon  if  that  be  turned 
all  the  while.  Put  the  cooked  bacon  on  a  hot  plate,  and 
keep  warm  until  the  chops  are  cooked. 


124        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


If  the  chops  be  cut  an  inch  thick,  cook  them  for  nine 
minutes,  turning  almost  continually.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Lay  a  slice  of  bacon  on 
each  chop,  and  arrange  the  remainder  around  the  dish. 
Serve  hot  and  on  hot  plates. 


Beefsteak  and  Onions. 


Steak  for  broiling. 

i  pint  of  sliced  onions. 

i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  drip- 
pings. 


Pare  and  slice  the  onions.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  off  all  the  water.  Put  the  butter  or  drippings  in  a 
frying-pan  and  add  the  drained  onions.  Cover  the  frying- 
pan  and  place  on  the  range.  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  Stir  the  onions  frequently.  Broil  the 
steak  rare  and  lay  it  on  the  bed  of  onions  for  five  minutes, 
having  the  pan  covered  ;  then  place  the  steak  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  arrange  the  onions  around  it. 

The  onions  need  not  be  boiled,  if  a  strong  flavor  be 
liked. 


FRYING. 

The  word  "frying"  may  mean  either  of  two  modes  of 
cooking  food  :  using  a  common  frying-pan,  with  only  a 
small  amount  of  fat,  or  immersing  the  article  to  be  cooked 
in  a  deep  kettle  of  hot  fat. 

The  first  method  is  unhealthful,  extravagant,  and  trouble- 
some ;  the  second  saves  time  and  is  more  economical  and 
healthful.  When  a  housekeeper  once  masters  this  method 
of  frying,  she  will  not  return  to  the  more  unsatisfactory 
and  indigestible  mode. 

There  should  be  enough  fat  to  float  the  article  to  be 
cooked.    The  fat  must  be  so  hot  as  to  harden  the  surface 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


I25 


of  the  article  of  food  the  moment  it  is  immersed,  making  it 
impervious  to  the  fat  or  the  juices  contained  in  the  food 
itself.  Different  articles  of  food  brown  at  different  tem- 
peratures, so  that  the  frying  temperature  varies  from  345 0 
to  4000  Fahrenheit.  Most  mixtures  composed  in  part  of 
flour,  sugar,  milk,  or  eggs  —  like  fritter  batters,  doughnuts, 
etc.  —  may  be  cooked  at  3500  ;  whereas  such  articles  as 
oysters,  white-bait,  croquettes,  etc.,  require  a  heat  of  at 
least  4000.  French  fried  and  thin  fried  potatoes  need  ten 
minutes'  cooking.  The  fat  must  have  a  temperature  of 
about  3700  when  they  are  put  into  it,  because  the  potatoes 
should  stand  in  ice- water  for  some  time  before  they  are 
cooked.  Moisture  will  cling  to  them  ;  and  this,  with  their 
chilliness,  reduces  the  fat  at  least  200  as  soon  as  the  frying 
begins,  making  it  then  3500.  At  this  heat  the  potatoes 
may  be  cooked  brown  and  crisp  in  ten  minutes.  As  al- 
ready stated,  oysters  require  a  heat  of  4000.  Drop  a  piece 
of  stale  bread  into  the  fat ;  and  if  the  temperature  be 
right,  the  bread  will  become  brown  in  half  a  minute.  Oys- 
ters and  white -bait  should  be  cooked  brown  and  crisp  in 
one  minute  ;  longer  cooking  will  make  them  rather  tough 
and  dry.  A  little  lower  temperature — :  say  3800 — will 
do  for  croquettes,  which  should  be  fried  for  about  two 
minutes.  If  the  temperature  be  too  low,  croquettes  will 
burst  open  during  the  cooking ;  particularly  rice  and  potato 
croquettes. 

Put  the  fat  into  a  deep  kettle  (that  called  a  Scotch  bowl 
being  best)  and  heat  it  slowly.  When  the  time  for  frying 
the  food  is  near  at  hand,  set  the  kettle  on  the  hottest  part 
of  the  range,  and  watch  to  see  the  blue  smoke  rise  from  the 
centre  of  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  The  smoke  indicates 
the  temperature  to  be  about  3500.  Drop  a  piece  of  stale 
bread  into  the  fat ;  and  if* one  minute  be  required  to  brown 
it,  the  fat  may  be  used  at  once  for  frying  muffins,  dough- 
nuts, fritters,  breaded  chops,  and  indeed  nearly  all  articles 
that  require  three  or  four  minutes'  cooking. 


126      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


How  to  keep  Pat. 

When  the  frying  has  been  finished,  take  the  fat  from  the 
fire  and  let  it  cook  slightly.  Next  place  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth in  a  colander  or  strainer,  and,  after  setting  this  over  a 
jar  or  pail,  strain  the  fat  through  the  cloth.  This  straining 
never  should  be  omitted  ;  for,  with  good  care,  the  same  fat 
may  be  used  many  times. 

The  Kind  of  Fat  to  use. 

Olive  oil  would  be  the  best  liquid  to  use  if  the  matter  of 
expense  were  not  to  be  considered.  Any  pure,  clear  fat 
that  is  free  of  strong  odor  will  answer.  Many  folk  use  mut- 
ton and  ham  fat,  and  say  that  they  do  not  find  the  flavor  of 
the  meat  in  the  articles  fried  ;  but  others  would  discover 
the  taste  at  once,  and  consider  it  disagreeable. 

But  the  housekeeper  will  select  the  material  she  will  use 
according  to  her  taste  and  means ;  and  attention  may  as 
well  be  turned  now  to  the  conditions  which  will  insure  satis- 
factory and  comparatively  wholesome  fried  food.  In  the 
first  place,  the  fat  must  be  perfectly  clarified.  Even  the 
purest  and  sweetest  butter  must  go  through  this  process 
before  being  used  for  frying.  Oil  and  lard,  when  pure, 
already  are  clarified.  When  the  fat  to  be  clarified  is  that 
which  has  been  skimmed  from  gravies,  soups,  or  the  water 
in  which  corned  beef  has  been  boiled,  it  will  contain  water 
and  other  impurities.  While  there  is  water  in  fat  the  latter 
cannot  be  heated  to  a  temperature  suitable  for  frying  pur- 
poses ;  and  if  there  be  other  foreign  substances  present, 
such  as  particles  of  meat,  gravy,  flour,  or  starch,  they  will 
burn  at  as  high  a  temperature  as  345 °,  blackening  the  fat 
and  making  it  unfit  for  frying  articles  of  food. 

The  Prying  Basket. 

While  it  is  possible  to  fry  food  in  deep  fat  without  the 
use  of  the  frying  basket,  that  invention  will  be  found  a  most 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


valuable  aid  in  this  branch  of  cookery.  The  basket  is 
made  of  fine  wire,  and  has  a  bail  across  the  top.  Do  not 
get  one  of  coarse  wire  and  open  meshes. 


THE  WAY  TO  LOWER  THE  FRYING  BASKET. 


After  the  articles  to  be  fried  have  been  put  into  it,  it 
should  be  lowered  into  the  fat ;  gently,  because  the  parti- 
cles of  moisture  which  cling  to  the  food  are  instantly  con- 
verted into  steam,  and  this  would  expand  beneath  the 
surface  and  force  some  of  the  fat  from  the  kettle  if  the 
basket  were  lowered  quickly.  The  operation  may  be  per- 
formed safely  by  hanging  the  basket  on  a  long  spoon  or 
fork,  and  then  letting  it  settle  gently  in  the  fat.  Do  not 
crowd  into  the  basket  the  articles  that  are  to  be  fried. 
When  the  food  has  been  cooked  as  long  as  seems  necessary, 
lift  the  basket  with  the  spoon  or  fork,  and,  after  allowing  the 
fat  to  drip  from  it,  place  it  on  a  plate.  Remove  the  cooked 
articles,  and  lay  them  on  brown  paper  that  has  been  spread 
on  a  warm  pan.  If  properly  cooked,  they  will  hardly  stain 
the  paper. 

Breaded  Chops. 

Mutton  or  lamb  chops  may  be  breaded  and  served  with 
tomato  or  brown  sauce.    Have  the  chops  cut  an  inch  thick. 


128      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Trim  them,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  them 
in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  dry  bread  crumbs.  Lay  them  in 
deep  fat  for  six  minutes  if  they  are  to  be  rare  done,  and 
for  ten  minutes  if  to  be  well  done.  Slices  from  the  leg  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 


Breaded  Veal  Cutlets. 

i  pound  of  veal,  cut  from  the  leg.   y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  egg.  Dried  bread  crumbs, 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Fat  for  frying. 

Have  the  cutlets  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
cut  into  pieces  about  four  inches  long  and  three  wide. 
Season  them  with  half  the  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  egg 
in  a  soup  plate,  and  season  with  the  remainder  of  the  salt 
and  pepper.  Dip  the  cutlets  in  the  egg  and  roll  them  in 
the  bread  crumbs.  Fry  them  in  deep  fat  for  ten  minutes. 
Serve  with  tomato  or  brown  sauce. 

If  you  prefer,  the  cutlets  may  be  fried  in  pork  fat.  In 
that  case  fry  two  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork.  Take  up  the  pork 
and  put  the  cutlets  into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan. 
When  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other. 
They  should  be  cooked  for  fifteen  minutes. 


Mutton  Cutlets  Saute. 


i  slice  of  mutton  from  the  leg,  or 

five  chops, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
\y2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
i  gill  of  stewed  and  strained  to- 
mato. 


Trim  most  of  the  fat  from  the  chops,  and  season  them 
with  half  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  them  in  a  hot  frying-pan 
and  cook  them  for  four  minutes,  turning  often.  Sprinkle  the 
flour  over  them  and  cook  for  two  minutes  longer,  turning 
them  twice  in  that  time.    Now  add  the  tomato,  butter, 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT.  1 29 

and  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  for  three 
minutes  longer,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Breaded  Sausages. 


6  small  sausages. 

x/2  pint  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 

The  yolk  of  one  egg. 


I  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
Fat  for  frying. 


Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate,  then  beat  into 
it  the  milk.  Prick  the  sausages  with  a  fork  and  roll  them, 
one  by  one,  in  the  egg,  and  then  in  the  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  them  in  the  frying  basket  and  cook  for  ten  minutes 
in  smoking  hot  fat.    Drain  and  serve. 


MISCELLANEOUS  MODES. 


Stewed  Shin  of  Beef. 


4  pounds  of  shin  of  beef. 

1  small  onion. 

1  bay  leaf. 

1  whole  clove. 

1  sprig  of  parsley. 

1  small  slice  of  carrot. 


tablespoonful  of  salt. 
]/2  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
\l/z  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
il/2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 


Have  the  butcher  cut  the  bone  into  six  parts.  Wash  the 
shank  carefully,  being  sure  to  remove  any  particles  of  meat 
or  gristle  that  are  not  perfectly  sweet.  They  will  be  found 
at  the  small  end,  if  at  all.  Put  the  shin  in  a  stewpan  with 
the  onion,  carrot,  bay  leaf,  parsley,  clove,  salt,  pepper,  and 
water. 

Place  the  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  its  contents 
begin  to  boil,  skim  the  liquid  carefully,  and  set  the  pan 
back  where  the  meat  will  only  simmer  for  six  hours.  At 
the  end  of  five  hours  and  a  half,  dip  out  one  pint  of  the 
liquid ;  and  after  allowing  this  partially  to  cool,  skim  off 
the  fat. 

9 


130      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  place  it  on  the  stove. 
When  the  butter  begins  to  bubble,  add  the  flour,  and  stir 
the  mixture  until  it  is  smooth  and  brown  ;  then  gradually 
add  three  gills  of  the  cold  liquid.  Cook  for  three  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  set 
back  where  it  will  keep  hot. 

Take  up  the  meat,  removing  it  from  the  bones ;  also 
remove  the  marrow  from  the  bones.  Put  the  meat  and 
marrow  into  the  stewpan  with  the  sauce.  Draw  the  pan 
forward  and  let  its  contents  boil  up  once.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish  with  a  garnish  of  potato  cubes. 

The  remainder  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  shin  was  boiled 
may  be  used  for  a  soup  the  next  day. 

To  prepare  the  potatoes,  pare  raw  ones,  and  cut  them 
into  inch  cubes.  Put  these  in  a  stewpan,  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Cook  them  for  fifteen  minutes,  counting 
from  the  time  the  cover  is  placed  on  the  stewpan.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  pour  off  all  the  water  and  sprinkle  salt 
over  the  potatoes,  —  half  a  teaspoonful  to  a  pint  of  the 
cubes.  Place  the  stewpan  on  the  fire  for  about  one  minute  ; 
then  shake  well.  For  three  persons  cook  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  cubes. 

Pot  Roast. 


3  pounds  of  a  tough  piece  of 
beef. 

il/2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

I  whole  clove. 

1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

1  gill  of  cold  water. 


Wipe  the  meat  and  season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  it  in  an  iron  or  granite-ware  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  a 
part  of  the  range  where  it  will  brown  slowly.  Turn  it  fre- 
quently. Cook  the  meat  in  this  manner  for  thirty  minutes. 
Now  add  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  and  draw  the  stewpan  to  a 
part  of  the  range  where  the  contents  will  cook  slowly  for 
four  hours.    Add  a  gill  of  boiling  water  whenever  the  liquid 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


in  the  stewpan  becomes  low.  When  the  meat  has  been 
cooking  for  three  hours,  mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  gill 
of  cold  water,  and  turn  into  the  gravy  in  the  stewpan.  Add 
enough  boiling  water  now  to  make  the  full  pint ;  the  whole 
clove  also  may  be  added.  Cook  the  meat  an  hour  longer  ; 
then  serve  on  a  warm  platter,  with  a  part  of  the  gravy 
poured  over  it.  Serve  the  remainder  of  the  gravy  in  a 
bowl. 

Braised  Beef. 


3  pounds  of  beef. 

2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

}4  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


1  y2  pints  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  carrot. 
2  whole  cloves. 

i  sprig  of  parsley. 


Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices  and  fry  until  brown  and 
crisp.  Take  out  the  pork,  and,  putting  the  vegetables  into 
the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan,  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Rub  half  the  pepper  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  salt 
into  the  piece  of  meat,  and  place  it  in  a  deep  granite-ware 
pan.  When  the  vegetables  are  cooked,  put  them  with  the 
meat,  first  pressing  from  them  as  much  fat  as  possible. 
Into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan  put  the  flour,  and  stir 
until  it  becomes  a  dark  brown.  Add  the  water  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  while.  Season  this  gravy  with  the  remainder 
of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  for  five  minutes  ;  then 
pour  over  the  meat  in  the  pan.  Add  the  cloves  and  parsley. 
Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  Cook  for 
five  hours,  basting  every  half-hour  with  the  gravy  in  the 
pan.  The  oven  must  never  be  so  hot  that  the  gravy  will 
bubble. 

This  long,  slow  cooking  will  make  the  toughest  piece  of 
meat  tender ;  but  if  it  be  cooked  too  fast,  the  meat  will  be- 
come hard,  dry,  and  stringy.  Any  of  the  tough  pieces  can 
be  used  for  this  dish. 


132      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Veal,  mutton,  chicken,  and  turkey  all  can  be  cooked  in 
this  manner.  With  the  light  meats  use  a  little  celery,  if 
convenient. 

Beefsteak  Roll. 


y2  pint  of  strained  tomato, 
i  egg. 

\l/2  pounds  of  round  steak. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  pork  fat  or 

beef  drippings, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
l/z  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs. 


i%  pints  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  thyme. 

\Yz  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

y  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

I  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion. 


Have  the  steak  cut  thin.  Make  a  dressing  by  mixing 
together  the  cracker  crumbs,  thyme,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
salt,  half  the  pepper,  the  butter,  a  little  more  than  a  gill  of 
cold  water,  and  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Season  the  slice  of 
steak  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  of  the 
pepper.  Spread  the  dressing  on  it,  and  roll  up.  Wind  soft 
darning  cotton  around  the  roll,  to  keep  it  in  place. 

Put  the  pork  fat  in  a  frying-pan,  and  set  on  the  lire. 
Dredge  the  roll  with  flour,  and  place  it  in  the  hot  fat.  Cook 
until  brown  on  all  sides,  then  place  it  in  a  stewpan.  Put 
the  onion  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  the  fat  remaining 
in  the  pan.  Stir  until  brown  ;  then  gradually  add  the  scant 
pint  of  water,  and  stir  until  the  sauce  boils  up.  Add  the 
remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  strained 
tomato.  Strain  this  on  the  beefsteak  roll.  Cover  the  stew- 
pan,  and  place  wmere  the  sauce  will  bubble  at  one  side 
for  three  hours.  When  done,  take  up,  remove  the  strings, 
and  place  the  roll  on  a  warm  dish.  Pour  the  sauce  over  it, 
and  serve. 

This  dish  is  suitable  for  luncheon  or  dinner.    Any  of 
the  following  named  vegetables  may  be  served  with  it : 
potatoes,  rice,  hominy,  carrots,  turnips,  cabbage,  or  mac- 
aroni. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


133 


Beef  Olives. 


1  Yz  pounds  of  round  of  beef. 
l/2  pint  of  cracker  crumbs. 

teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
i/j  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


3  tablespoonfuk  of  flour. 

3  ounces  of  salt  pork. 

j£  teaspoonful  of  thyme. 

j/3'  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory. 


Have  the  beef  cut  in  a  thin  slice.  Cut  all  the  flit  from 
this  and  chop  it  fine.  Mix  together  the  cracker  crumbs, 
chopped  fat,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  sixth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper,  the  herbs,  and  a  gill  of  cold  water. 
Cut  the  slice  of  beef  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long  and 
three  wide.  Season  the  meat  with  the  remainder  of  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Spread  the  cracker  dressing  on  these 
strips  of  meat  and  then  roll  them  up.  Tie  them  with  soft 
darning  cotton  and  then  roll  them  in  the  flour.  Cut  the 
pork  in  slices  and  fry  until  crisp  and  brown.  Take  out 
the  pork  and  lay  the  olives  in  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan. 
Fry  on  all  sides  until  brown  ;  then  put  the  olives  in  a  small 
stewpan.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  such  flour  as  remained 
after  the  olives  were  rolled,  and  stir  until  brown.  Grad- 
ually pour  upon  this  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Stir  until  it 
boils  and  then  pour  over  the  olives.  Cover  the  stewpan 
and  place  where  the  contents  will  just  bubble  at  one  side 
for  two  hours.  At  serving  time  take  up  the  olives,  remove 
the  strings,  and  arrange  in  the  centre  of  a  warm  platter. 
Free  the  gravy  from  fat  and  pour  over  the  olives.  The 
dish  may  be  served  plain  or  with  a  border  of  either  boiled 
rice,  mashed  potatoes,  or  strips  of  toast. 


Hamburg  Steaks. 

1  pound  of  round,  shoulder,  or  |  x(  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
flank  of  beef.  |  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Have  the  butcher  chop  the  meat  very  fine.  Season  it 
with  the  salt  and  pepper  and  make  it  into  small  cakes  about 


134     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


half  an  inch  thick.  Rub  the  bars  of  the  broiler  with  a  bit 
of  fat  and  lay  the  cakes  in  it.  Broil  over  clear  coals  for  six 
minutes,  if  the  steaks  be  liked  rare  ;  or  eight  minutes,  if 
to  be  well  done.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  season  with  but- 
ter and  salt.  Another  method  is  to  put  into  a  frying-pan 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  pork  fat  and  cook  the 
steaks  for  eight  minutes.  Place  the  steaks  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  into  the  pan  in  which  they  were  cooked  put  one  table - 
spoonful  of  butter  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir 
until  smooth  and  brown ;  then  add  a  gill  of  cold  water, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Season  this  sauce  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  A  gill  of  strained 
tomatoes  will  be  an  improvement.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the 
steaks  and  serve  at  once. 


Beef  Stew  from  the  Cold  Roast. 


The  bones  of  the  roast. 
About  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
meat. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  fat. 

1  large  onion. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  carrot. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery. 

1  Y2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
)i  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

I  pint  of  boiling  water, 
i  pint  of  sliced  potatoes. 


Take  the  bones  and  the  tough  pieces  left  from  a  cold 
roast  of  beef.  After  cutting  all  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
remove  all  the  fat  from  the  meat  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
frying-pan.  Cut  the  lean  meat  into  small  pieces.  Place 
the  bones  in  a  stew-pan  and  lay  the  meat  on  top  of  them. 
Take  from  the  frying-pan  five  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  fat 
and  put  it  in  another  frying-pan.  Add  the  minced  vege- 
tables, and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  draw  the  pan  forward  to  a  hotter  part  of  the 
range  and  cook  rapidly  for  three  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Now  draw  the  vegetables  to  one  side  of  the  pan  and 
press  out  the  fat,  then  put  the  vegetables  in  the  stewpan. 
Put  the  flour  into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan,  and  stir 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


135 


until  it  becomes  smooth  and  brown ;  then  add  the  water, 
and  stir  until  it  boils.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  cook 
for  three  minutes.  Pour  this  gravy  into  the  stewpan,  and, 
covering  the  pan,  set  it  back  where  the  contents  will  just 
bubble  at  one  side  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  The  potatoes 
are  then  to  be  added  and  the  stewpan  brought  forward  to 
a  hotter  place.  At  the  end  of  half  an  hour  the  stew  will 
be  done.  Remove  the  bones  and  serve  the  stew  on  a 
warm  dish.  It  may  be  garnished  with  a  circle  of  small 
baking  powder  biscuit,  or  with  dumplings. 


With  the  bones  and  tough  pieces  of  cold  lamb  or  mutton 
a  stew  can  be  made  the  same  as  beef  stew  with  cold  roast 
beef.  If  you  have  the  small  white  turnips  use  a  gill  of  these 
cut  in  cubes  and  fried  with  the  other  vegetables. 


3  ounces  of  smoked  dried  beef.     I  1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  |  \  l/z  gills  of  milk. 

Have  the  beef  cut  in  slices  as  thin  as  shavings,  and  put 
it  in  a  bowl.  Pour  upon  it  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  stand  for  two  minutes ;  then  turn  off  the  water  and 
drain  the  beef  dry.  Put  the  butter  on  the  fire,  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  it  becomes  hot  add  the  beef.  Cook  for 
three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Now  pour  on  one 
gill  of  cold  milk.  Mix  the  half-gill  of  milk  with  the  flour, 
and  stir  it  into  the  cooking  mixture.  Cook  for  two  minutes, 
and  serve. 


Stew  from  Cold  Lamb  or  Mutton. 


Creamed  Dried  Beef. 


Frizzled  Smoked  Beef. 


2  ounces  of  dried  smoked  beef. 

3  eg;> 


1  gill  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


136     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Have  the  beef  shaved  thin  and  then  cut  it  into  small 
bits.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  add  the  milk  to  them.  Put 
the  butter  on  the  fire,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  becomes 
hot,  add  the  beef.  Stir  the  meat  for  three  minutes ;  then 
draw  the  pan  back  to  a  cooler  place  and  add  the  eggs  and 
milk.  Stir  constantly  until  the  egg  begins  to  thicken ;  then 
turn  into  a  warm  dish  and  serve. 


In  making  veal  olives  use  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the 
cracker  dressing,  as  there  will  be  no  fat  to  cut  from  the 
veal.  Add  half  a  dozen  celery  seeds  when  the  gravy  is 
put  with  the  olives.  With  these  exceptions  proceed  exactly 
as  for  beef  olives. 


I  gill  of  strained  tomatoes. 

Nick  the  edge  of  the  cutlet  with  a  sharp  knife ;  this  will 
keep  the  slice  flat.  Cut  the  pork  in  slices  and  cook  slowly 
in  the  frying-pan  for  fifteen  minutes,  Draw  the  pan  forward 
to  a  hotter  part  of  the  range  and  take  up  the  pieces  of  pork. 
Season  the  cutlet  with  half  the  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  it  in 
the  hot  fat.  Cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  fre- 
quently. Now  take  up  the  meat  and  put  the  flour  into  the 
gravy  remaining  in  the  pan.  Stir  until  it  turns  dark  brown  ; 
then  add  the  cold  water,  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  stirring 
all  the  while.  Cook  the  sauce  for  five  minutes ;  then  lay 
the  fried  cutlet  in  it  and  cover  the  pan.  Set  back  where 
the  sauce  will  hardly  bubble  at  one  side  for  half  an  hour. 
At  end  of  that  time  place  the  cutlet  on  a  hot  dish  and 
strain  the  sauce  over  it.    Serve  at  once. 


Veal  Olives. 


Veal  Cutlets  Saute. 


1  slice  of  veal  from  the  leg. 

2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


i  generous  gill  of  cold  water. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1%  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


137 


Fricassee  of  Veal. 


1  pound  of  veal. 

2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 
JH  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

3  gills  of  water. 

1  gill  of  strained  tomatoes. 


yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Cut  the  pork  in  thin  slices  and  fry  brown.  Have  the 
veal  cut  in  small,  thin  pieces.  Season  it  with  the  salt  and 
pepper,  then  roll  it  in  the  flour.  Take  the  pork  from  the 
pan  and  lay  the  slices  of  veal  in  the  hot  fat.  Let  them  fry 
until  they  have  a  good  brown  color,  turning  them  when 
brown  on  one  side.  Take  up  the  veal  and  stir  the  remain- 
der of  the  flour  into  the  fat.  When  the  flour  is  brown,  add 
the  cold  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  this  gravy 
boils  up  put  the  browned  veal  into  it  and  simmer  for  half 
an  hour.    Add  the  tomatoes  and  boil  up  once. 

The  flavor  and  appearance  of  this  dish  may  be  varied  by 
changing  the  gravy.  Measure  the  water  generously,  and 
omit  the  tomatoes,  and  you  have  a  simple  brown  fricassee. 
Be  scant  in  the  measurement  of  water  and  tomatoes,  adding 
the  tomatoes  to  the  gravy  when  the  meat  is  put  in  ;  then, 
at  the  end  of  half  an  hour,  add  a  gill  of  milk,  and  boil  up 
once,  and  you  have  a  bisque  of  veal.  Or  you  may  omit 
the  tomatoes,  and  at  the  end  of  the  half-hour  add  a  gener- 
ous gill  of  milk,  and  you  have  a  white  fricassee.  In  this 
case  do  not  brown  the  flour  when  it  is  added  to  the  fat. 


Ragout  of  Mutton. 


2  pounds  of  mutton  from  the 


1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch. 
1  level  tablespoonful  of  salt 
^3  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  ;4  pints  of  water. 


shoulder  or  breast 

1  pint  of  turnip  cubes. 
}i  pint  of  carrot  cubes. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


138      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Have  the  mutton  free  from  bones.  Cut  off  all  the  fat 
and  put  it  in  the  frying-pan  and  on  the  fire.  Cut  the  meat 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  square.  When  there  is  about 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  fat  in  the  pan,  take  out  the 
solid  pieces  and  move  the  pan  to  a  part  of  the  range  where 
the  fat  will  become  smoking  hot.  Now  put  in  the  mutton, 
and  stir  until  it  becomes  brown,  —  which  will  be  in  about 
six  minutes.  Take  the  meat  from  the  fat  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan.  Put  the  turnips,  carrots,  and  onion  in  the  fat  re- 
maining in  the  pan  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  being  careful 
not  to  brown  them.  Press  all  the  fat  from  the  vegetables 
and  put  them  in  the  stewpan  with  the  meat.  Now,  after 
pouring  all  the  fat  from  the  pan,  put  in  the  butter  and  flour, 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  becomes  smooth  and  dark  brown  j 
then  draw  back  to  a  cooler  place  and  gradually  stir  in  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  water.  When  this  boils  up  add  it  to 
the  contents  of  the  stewpan. 

Mix  the  salt,  pepper,  corn-starch,  and  a  gill  of  cold  water. 
Stir  this  mixture  into  the  stewpan.  When  the  ragout  boils, 
skim  it,  and  move  the  stewpan  back  where  the  contents 
will  bubble  gently  at  one  side  for  three  hours.  Serve 
very  hot. 

If  you  choose,  a  pint  of  potato  cubes  can  be  added  the 
last  half- hour. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Veal,  lamb,  or  any  kind  of  poultry,  will  answer  for  this 
dish.  Have  the  meat  free  from  fat  and  bone,  and  cut  into 
dainty  pieces.  Season  it  with  half  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When 
hot,  add  the  flour,  stirring  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and 


Blanquette  of  Cold  Meat. 


1  pint  of  cold  white  meat. 
1  gill  of  milk  or  cream. 
il/2  gills  of  stock. 


1%  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper. 
\]4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


139 


frothy;  then  gradually  add  the  stock.  Cook  for  two 
minutes  ;  then  add  the  milk  and  cold  meat,  and  simmer 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  warm  dish  and 
garnish  with  rice,  toast,  or  pastry  cakes.  A  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  added  just  as  the  blanquette  is  being 
removed  from  the  fire,  is  an  addition  that  pleases  most 
tastes.  A  teaspoonful  of  curry-powder  may  be  stirred 
into  the  butter  when  the  flour  is  added,  thus  changing 
the  dish  to  a  delicate  curry. 


Pork  Chops. 


\l/2  pounds  of  pork  steak. 
\yz  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


*^  pint  of  strained  tomatoes. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


Season  the  chops  w7ith  one  teaspoonful  of  the  salt  and  half 
the  pepper.  Put  them  in  a  hot  frying-pan  and  cook  them 
rather  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  up  the  chops  and 
stir  the  flour  into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan.  When  the 
mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy,  add  the  strained  tomatoes 
and  simmer  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  the  remainder 
of  the  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  the  chops  on  a  warm 
dish  and  pour  the  sauce  around  them. 

If  a  plain  brown  sauce  be  preferred,  substitute  cold  water 
for  the  tomatoes. 


Fried  Salt  Pork. 

Have  the  slices  cut  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick. 
Drop  them  into  boiling  water  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 
After  draining  the  pieces  of  pork,  put  them  in  the  frying- 
pan  and  set  them  on  the  fire.  Let  them  cook  slowly  at 
first ;  then  draw  the  pan  to  hotter  part  of  the  range,  and 
cook  more  rapidly  until  they  are  crisp  and  brown.  Draw 
the  pan  back,  and,  taking  up  the  pork,  arrange  it  on  a  hot 
dish. 


140     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Pour  all  the  pork  fat,  except  about  two  tablespoonfuls, 
into  a  bowl.  Put  the  pan  back  on  the  fire,  and  into  the 
fat  remaining  put  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  until 
the  mixture  is  smooth  and  brown ;  then  gradually  add  half 
a  pint  of  cold  water.  Simmer  for  three  minutes,  and  then 
taste  to  be  sure  it  is  salt  enough.  Serve  this  gravy  in  a 
sauce  bowl. 

A  brown  sauce  made  in  this  manner  is  much  more 
healthful  and  appetizing  than  the  clear  pork  fat. 


Salt  Pork  in  Batter. 


6  slices  of  pork. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 


1  egg. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Have  the  pork  cut  in  thin  slices.  Drop  it  into  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Take  it  up  and 
drain  ;  then  put  it  in  a  frying-pan,  and,  setting  it  on  the 
fire,  cook  until  it  turns  a  delicate  brown,  which  should 
be  in  five  minutes.  Draw  the  pan  back  and  take  up  the 
pork. 

Make  a  batter  with  the  flour,  milk,  salt,  and  egg.  Dip 
the  pork  in  the  batter.  Have  the  pork  fat  hot,  and  lay  the 
masked  pork  in  it.  Cook  until  brown  on  one  side ;  then 
turn  and  brown  on  the  other.    Serve  at  once. 


Sausage  Cakes. 


i  pound  of  fresh  pork. 
y2  pint  of  stale  bread. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


]/2  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  powdered  thyme. 


Have  the  meat  one  fourth  fat  and  three  fourths  lean,  and 
chopped  fine.  Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  until  it  is 
soft,  then  press  out  all  the  water.  Mix  the  seasonings  and 
the  bread  with  the  meat.  When  all  the  ingredients  are 
thoroughly  combined,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes,  and  fry 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


141 


until  brown  on  both  sides.  It  will  take  twenty  minutes  to 
cook  the  cakes  thoroughly. 


Stewed  Kidneys. 


1  beef  kidney,  or  two  pairs  of 

sheep  or  lambs'. 
1  pint  of  water  or  stock. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


^  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
tablespoonful  of  butter, 
level  tablespoonful  of  Hour, 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


Draw  the  thin,  white  skin  off  the  kidneys ;  then  cut 
them  into  thin,  round  slices,  removing  the  hard,  white  sub- 
stance. Wash  them,  and  soak  them  in  salted  water  for 
half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  pint  of  water.  Place  on  the  fire  ;  and  when 
they  begin  to  boil,  skim  carefully.  Draw  the  stewpan  to 
a  part  of  the  range  where  the  water  will  only  bubble  gently 
for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time  put  the  butter  in 
a  small  pan,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Add  the  flour,  and  stir 
until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  brown.  Stir  this  into  the 
pan  containing  the  kidneys.  Now  add  the  seasonings,  and 
simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer.  Serve  toasted  bread  with 
the  kidneys. 


Kidneys  Saute. 


2  pairs  of  sheep's  kidneys. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  stock  or  water. 


1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Prepare  the  kidneys  as  for  stewing.  Drain  and  wipe 
them.  Put  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  frying-pan,  and  set 
on  the  fire.  Season  the  kidneys  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  them  into  the  pan  with  the  butter  and  flour,  and  cook 
for  two  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  stock  or 
water,  cold.  Stir  until  this  boils  up,  then  add  the  lemon 
juice.  Turn  the  saute  into  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with 
points  of  crisp  toast. 


142      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Broiled  Kidneys. 

2  pairs  of  sheep  or  lambs'  kidneys    I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Flour. 


Draw  the  thin  skin  off  the  kidneys ;  then  cut  each  kid- 
ney almost  in  two.  Cut  out  the  hard,  white  substance  from 
the  centre.  Wash  the  kidneys  and  soak  them  in  salt  and 
water  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time  wipe  them 
dry.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter  and  add  the 
lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  it.  Dip  the  kidneys  in 
this  ;  then  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and,  placing  them  in  the 
broiler,  cook  over  clear  coals  for  six  minutes.  Arrange  on 
a  hot  dish  and  season  with  the  remaining  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  or,  instead  of  the  plain  butter,  use  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

The  kidneys  may  be  rolled  in  fine  bread  crumbs  instead 
of  flour. 

Stewed  Sheep's  Hearts. 

2  sheep's  hearts.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork.  %.  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion.  pints  of  water, 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Split  and  wash  the  hearts.  Season  them  with  half  the 
pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  them  in  the  flour.  Fry  the  pork 
in  the  frying-pan.  Put  the  onions  with  the  fried  pork 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  take 
the  pork  and  onions  from  the  frying-pan  and  put  them  in 
the  stewpan.  Lay  the  hearts  in  the  frying-pan,  and  cook 
until  they  are  brown  on  one  side ;  then  turn  them  and 
brown  the  other  side.  After  that,  put  them  in  the  stew- 
pan.  Pour  the  hot  water  into  the  frying-pan  and  stir 
until  all  the  sediment  is  mixed  with  it,  then  pour  it  over 
the  hearts. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


143 


To  the  flour  left  after  the  hearts  were  rolled,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  be- 
comes perfectly  smooth,  when  it  should  be  stirred  into  the 
gravy  in  the  stewpan.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  place  the  stewpan  where  the  gravy  will  bubble 
gently  at  one  side  for  three  hours.  The  hearts  will  be 
tender  and  delicious  if  the  cooking  be  slow,  but  if  the 
gravy  be  allowed  to  boil  hard,  the  meat  will  be  tough  and 
unsatisfactory. 

At  serving  time  arrange  the  hearts  on  a  dish  and  strain 
the  gravy  over  them.    Serve  boiled  rice  with  this  dish. 


Have  the  bacon  cut  in  as  thin  slices  as  possible  and  keep 
it  cold  until  the  time  to  cook  it.  Have  the  liver  cut  into 
slices  about  one  third  of  an  inch  thick.  If  it  be  calf  or 
sheep's  liver,  wash  it  in  cold  water  and  let  it  drain  ;  but 
if  it  be  beef  liver,  after  washing  it,  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes ;  then  drain  it. 

Put  the  pieces  of  bacon  into  a  hot  frying-pan  and  turn 
them  constantly  until  they  are  crisp ;  then  take  them  up. 
1  )raw  the  pan  back  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range,  and,  lay- 
ing the  slices  of  bacon  in  the  hot  fat,  cook  them  for  eight 
minutes,  turning  often.  Season  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Arrange  the  liver  on  a  warm  platter  and  garnish  with  the 
bacon. 

Remember  that  slow  cooking  spoils  bacon,  and  rapid 
cooking  hardens  and  ruins  liver. 


Pried  Liver  and  Bacon. 


2  ounces  of  breakfast  bacon. 
y2  pound  of  liver. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Calf's  Liver  Saute. 


1  pound  of  calf's  liver. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

1 XA  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
pint  of  water. 


144      Miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Cut  the  liver  in  slices  one  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
wash  and  wipe  them.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  the 
salt  and  half  the  pepper. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire. 
When  it  becomes  hot,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  then  lay  the 
slices  of  liver  in  the  pan.  Cook  slowly  for  six  minutes, 
turning  often.  At  the  end  of  that  time  add  the  water, 
stirring  all  the  while.  When  this  boils  up,  add  the  re- 
mainder of  the  salt  and  pepper  and  the  lemon  juice,  and 
cook  gently  for  two  minutes. 

The  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted  and  milk  be  substituted 
for  the  water  in  making  the  sauce.  Pig,  sheep,  and  lamb's 
liver  can  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette. 

4  chicken  livers. 

8  slices  of  breakfast  bacon. 

Cut  the  bacon  as  thin  as  possible.  Cut  the  livers  in  two 
parts,  and  after  washing  them,  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Fold  each  piece  of  liver  in  a  slice  of  bacon  and 
fasten  with  a  small  bird  skewer.  Broil  over  clear  coals  for 
ten  minutes.  Remove  the  skewers  and  serve  the  liver  and 
bacon  on  slices  of  toast. 


Broiled  Tripe. 


i  pound  of  tripe. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
A  little  flour. 


Wash  and  drain  the  tripe.  If  it  has  been  in  pickle,  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and 
place  on  the  fire.  Simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  If 
milk  be  plentiful  use  half  milk  and  half  water.  If  the  tripe 
has  not  been  pickled,  fifteen  minutes  will  be  enough  time 
for  the  simmering.    Take  it  from  the  hot  liquid  and  drain. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


145 


Melt  the  butter  in  a  soup  plate.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper 
to  it  and  then  roll  the  piece  of  tripe  in  the  mixture.  1  >re<  Ige 
the  tripe  with  flour  and  broil  over  a  hot  fire  for  six  minutes. 
Serve  at  once. 

Tripe  may  be  broiled  without  using  the  butter  and  flour, 
but  it  is  apt  to  be  dry.  Get  the  thick,  juicy  part  for 
broiling. 


Wash  the  tripe  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  it  in  the  flour.  Put  the  drip- 
pings in  the  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  lay 
in  the  tripe,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  browning  both  sides. 
Take  up  the  tripe,  and  into  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan 
scrape  such  part  of  the  flour  as  did  not  adhere  to  the  tripe. 
Stir  the  mixture,  and  then  add  the  cold  water  or  milk. 
Cook  for  two  minutes.  Taste,  to  see  if  seasoned  enough, 
because  more  salt  and  pepper  may  be  needed.  Strain  this 
gravy  over  the  tripe,  and  serve.  If  any  one  of  the  following 
named  seasonings  be  liked  it  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  : 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon  ml  of 
tomato  catsup,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  or  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar. 


Pried  Tripe. 


1  pound  of  tripe. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  gill  of  water  or  milk. 


Tripe  Fried  in  Batter. 


1  pound  of  tripe. 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


I  egg. 


Cut  the  tripe  in  small  squares  and  season  it  with  half  the 
salt  and  pepper.    Pour  the  milk  on  the  flour,  and  beat 

10 


146     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the 
remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  for  two  minutes 
longer.  Have  the  drippings  smoking  hot  in  the  frying-pan. 
Dip  the  tripe  in  the  batter  and  lay  it  in  the  hot  fat.  When 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  Serve  at 
once. 

The  tripe  may  be  fried  in  deep  fat.  In  that  case  it  will 
cook  in  three  minutes. 


Have  the  meat  about  one  fourth  fat  and  three  fourths 
lean.  Chop  it  rather  coarse.  Chop  the  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes a  little  coarser  than  the  meat  and  season  them  with  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Mix  the  potato  and  meat,  stirring  with  a 
fork.  Add  the  milk,  and  stir  lightly.  Put  the  butter  in 
the  frying-pan,  and  when  it  becomes  hot  put  in  the  hash, 
spreading  it  lightly  and  evenly,  but  not  stirring  it.  Cover 
the  pan  and  set  where  the  hash  will  cook  slowly  and  evenly 
for  half  an  hour  or  more.  There  should  be  a  rich  brown 
crust  on  the  bottom.  At  serving  time  fold  and  turn  out  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve  on  hot  plates. 


Any  kind  of  meat  can  be  used  to  make  a  meat-and-potato 
hash  ;  but,  of  course,  nothing  is  so  good  as  corned  beef. 
Cold  roast,  boiled,  or  broiled  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  veal,  or 
tongue  can  be  freed  from  skin,  fat,  and  bones,  seasoned 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cooked  like  corned  beef 
hash.  Even  two  or  three  kinds  of  meat  can  be  used.  If 
it  happens  that  you  have  a  bit  of  steak,  a  part  of  a  chop, 
and  perhaps  a  slice  of  tongue,  use  them  all. 


Corned  Beef  Hash. 


1  pint  of  hashed  corned  beef. 
1  pint  of  hashed  potatoes. 
1  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 


Yi  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  gill  of  milk. 


Hash  of  Fresh  Meat. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


147 


Sausage  Hash. 


3  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
2  cooked  sausages. 
Yt  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Y  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  of  butter. 


Chop  the  potatoes  rather  coarse,  and  the  sausage  a  little 
finer.  Season  the  potatoes  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and 
mix  the  sausage  with  them.  Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  when  it  becomes  melted  put  in  the  hash.  Spread 
lightly  in  the  pan,  but  do  not  stir.  Cover  the  pan  and  set 
on  the  back  part  of  the  range,  where  the  hash  will  brown 
slowly.  Cook  for  half  an  hour.  Fold  it,  and,  turning  out 
on  a  hot  dish,  serve  at  once. 


Baked  Hash. 


Y  pint  of  hashed  meat. 

Yz  pint  of  cold  mashed  potatoes. 

Yz  pint  of  milk  or  stock. 

3  teaspoonf  uls  of  butter. 


1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
l/i  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Y  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Use  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  meat.  Have  it  freed  from 
fat  and  bones,  and  chopped  rather  fine.  Season  it  with  the 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  butter  in  a 
small  pan  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  the  butter  is  hot, 
add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and 
frothy.  Gradually  add  the  milk,  and  boil  for  three  minutes. 
Add  the  meat  to  this,  and  boil  up  once  ;  then  put  in  a 
baking-dish.  Spread  the  mashed  potatoes  over  this  and 
dot  with  the  remaining  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Cooked  hominy  or  rice  may  be  substituted  for  the 
potatoes. 


148       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Minced  Meat  on  Toast. 


pint  of  cold  hashed  meat. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  gill  of  stock  or  water. 
3  slices  of  toast. 


1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

Have  the  meat  free  from  fat  and  bones  and  hashed  rather 
fine.  Mix  with  it  the  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Put  it  into  a 
small  stewpan  and  stir  in  the  stock  or  water.  Cover  the 
pan  and  set  it  on  a  part  of  the  range  where  the  hash  will 
cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes ;  then  add  the  butter,  and 
cook  five  minutes  longer. 

Have  the  toast  crisp  and  brown.  Dip  the  edges  in 
boiling  water.  Cut  each  slice  of  toast  into  two  triangular 
pieces.    Spread  the  meat  on  these,  and  serve  at  once. 


Use  the  dry  end  of  a  boiled  tongue  and  mince  very  fine. 
Put  the  butter  on  the  stove  in  a  small  frying-pan,  and  when 
it  becomes  hot,  add  the  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  frothy  ; 
then  draw  the  pan  back  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range,  and 
gradually  add  the  milk.  Now  move  the  pan  to  a  hotter 
place  and  cook  its  contents  for  two  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Add  the  tongue  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  for  five 
minutes.  Toast  the  bread,  and  place  it  on  a  warm  dish. 
Spread  a  little  of  the  tongue  and  sauce  on  each  slice,  and 
serve  at  once. 


Tongue  Toast. 


1  gill  of  minced  tongue. 

1  gill  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


teaspoonful  of  flour. 
Salt,  pepper. 
3  slices  of  toast. 


Meat  Cakes. 


1  gill  of  finely  minced  cold  cooked 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1   tablespoonful   of  sweet  drip- 


meat. 

1  gill  of  mashed  potato. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


pings. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


149 


Season  the  meat  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  it  and 
the  butter  into  the  hot  mashed  potatoes.  Shape  into  round 
flat  cakes  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides,  using  the  drippings 
for  frying. 


1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  rlour.  I 

Almost  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  meat  may  be  used  ;  pref- 
erably veal,  mutton,  or  lamb.  Season  it  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  the  pepper,  and  all  the  onion  juice.  Put  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan  and  set  on  the 
fire.  When  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  brown  ;  then  draw 
the  pan  back  and  gradually  add  the  stock  or  milk,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the 
remaining  pepper.  Put  the  meat  in  this  sauce.  Divide  the 
mixture  into  six  parts  and  put  each  part  into  a  little  baking- 
dish  or  shell.  Season  the  mashed  potatoes  with  one  fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  spread  it  over  the  little  dishes. 
Syrinkle  the  crumbs  over  these  and  dot  with  the  half  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  and  serve  at  once. 

Two  potatoes  of  medium  size  will  make  the  half-pint  of 
mashed  potatoes.  If  you  have  cold  mashed  potatoes  on 
hand,  use  them.    The  crumbs  may  be  omitted. 

Cold  boiled  rice  may  be  substituted  for  the  potatoes. 


Sanders. 


y2  pint  of  minced  cold  meat. 
Yz  pint  mashed  potatoes. 
yz  pint  of  stock  or  milk, 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


1%  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Yl  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 
1  gill  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 


Small  Timbales. 


3  gills  of  hashed  cooked  meat. 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
%  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 


1  gill  of  stock. 
1  egg. 

1  gill  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 
A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg 


150     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Have  the  meat  free  from  bone,  fat,  and  gristle,  and 
chopped  very  fine.  Mix  all  the  seasonings  and  the  bread 
crumbs  with  it.  Now  add  the  stock,  and  let  it  stand  in  a 
cool  place  for  one  or  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
beat  the  egg  well  and  mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Butter  four  small  timbale  moulds,  —  small  cups  will  do,  — 
and  pack  the  mixture  into  them.  Put  them  in  a  pan  and 
surround  them  with  tepid  water.  Lay  a  piece  of  thick 
brown  paper  over  the  top.  Place  the  pan  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  cook  the  timbales  for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  them 
out  on  a  warm  platter,  and  pour  a  white,  brown,  or  bisque 
sauce  around  them. 

This  mixture  may  be  cooked  in  one  mould.  In  that  case 
allow  ten  minutes  longer.  At  no  time  during  the  cooking 
should  the  oven  be  hot  enough  to  have  the  water  boil. 


Mutton  Croquettes. 


y2  pint   of  finely  chopped  cold 

mutton. 
2  eggs. 

I  gill  of  milk  or  cream. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
]/2  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

x/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

y2  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

A  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 

Bread  crumbs. 

Fat  for  frying. 


Add  the  seasoning  to  the  meat.  Put  the  milk  in  a 
small  pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  Beat  the  butter  and  flour 
together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Now  add  the 
meat,  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  stirring  often.  Add  one 
of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  take  from  the  fire  at  once. 
Pour  the  mixture  on  a  plate  and  set  away  to  get  chilled. 
When  it  is  chilled,  shape  the  croquettes,  and  bread  and 
fry  them. 

The  second  egg  and  the  crumbs  are  for  use  in  breading. 
Any  kind  of  tender  cooked  meat  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  mutton. 


152      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Meat  and  Potato  Croquettes. 


I  cupful  of  cold  meat,  chopped 


^  cupful  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


fine. 

i  cupful  of  cold  mashed  potatoes. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


2  eggs. 

Dried  bread  crumbs. 
Fat  for  frying. 


Mix  the  meat,  potatoes,  and  seasoning.  Put  the  milk  and 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  the  liquid  boils  up  put  in 
the  meat  and  potatoes,  and  cook  for  one  minute.  Beat  one 
egg  well  and  stir  it  into  the  hot  mixture.  Take  from  the 
fire  immediately,  and,  after  pouring  out  on  a  plate,  set  away 


to  cool.  When  cold,  shape  into  cylinders  about  three 
inches  long,  and  bread  and  fry. 

The  second  egg  and  the  crumbs  are  for  the  breading. 

Hominy  or  rice  may  be  substituted  for  the  potatoes. 


CROQUETTES  READY    FOR  SERVING. 


Meat  Pie. 


Filling, 


Crust. 


Jl/2  pints  of  cold  meat, 
i  pint  of  stock  or  water, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
I  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion, 
i  teaspoonful  of  minced  carrot. 
\Y2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Ye  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


l/z  pint  of  flour. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

i  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 

y2  gill  of  cold  water. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


153 


Use  any  kind  of  cooked  unsalted  meat,  and  have  it  free 
from  skin,  bones,  and  fat.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan.  Put  the 
vegetables  and  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  take  the  vegetables  from 
the  butter  and  put  them  with  the  meat.  Into  the  butter 
remaining  in  the  pan  put  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and 
stir  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Gradually  add  the  stock  or 
water,  and  stir  until  the  sauce  boils.  Add  this  to  the  meat 
and  vegetables,  and  place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Mix  the 
remaining  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  meat  mixture.  Add  the  sea- 
sonings, and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  this  into  a  dish 
that  will  hold  nearly  two  quarts,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Now  make  the  crust.  Mix  the  salt,  sugar,  and  baking- 
powder  with  the  flour,  and  then  rub  through  a  sieve  into  a 
bowl.  Add  the  butter  and  lard,  and  cut  and  mix  through 
the  flour,  with  a  knife,  until  quite  fine.  Wet  with  the  cold 
water,  stirring  all  the  time  with  the  knife.  Sprinkle  the 
board  lightly  with  flour,  and  turn  out  the  paste  upon  it. 
Roll  very  thin  ;  then  fold  and  roll  again  into  a  thin  sheet. 
Fold  up,  put  in  a  tin  pan,  and  set  on  the  ice  for  an  hour 
or  more  ;  or  it  may  be  used  at  once.  Roll  the  paste  into 
the  shape  of  the  top  of  the  dish  in  which  the  pie  is  to  be 
baked,  only  about  an  inch  larger  on  all  sides.  Cut  a  small 
slit  in  the  centre  of  the  paste  that  the  steam  may  escape 
Cover  the  prepared  meat  with  this  paste,  turning  in  the 
edges.    Bake  the  pie  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

The  bones  and  bits  of  gristle  may  be  boiled  in  water  to 
make  a  stock. 

How  to  Clean  and  Truss  Poultry. 

Cut  off  the  head,  and  then  the  legs,  being  careful  in  the 
latter  case  to  cut  in  or  below  the  joints.  Now  cut  the  skin 
on  the  back  of  the  neck ;  then  turn  the  skin  over  on  the 
breast  and  cut  off  the  neck.  Take  out  the  crop,  being  par- 
ticular to  remove  all  the  lining  membrane.    Put  the  fore- 


154      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


finger  into  the  throat  and  break  the  ligaments  that  hold  the 
internal  organs  to  the  breastbone.  Next  cut  the  bird  open 
at  the  vent,  beginning  under  the  left  leg,  and  cutting  in 
a  slanting  direction  toward  the  vent.  Stop  there.  Insert 
the  hand  in  this  opening,  and  work  around  the  organs  until 
they  are  loosened  from  the  bones.  Gently  draw  all  the 
organs  out  at  once.  Put  the  hand  in  to  learn  if  either  the 
windpipe  or  lights  are  left  in  the  body.  Cut  the  oil  bag 
from  the  tail.  This  is  a  hard,  yellow  substance.  Now 
singe  the  bird  by  holding  it  over  a  lighted  newspaper.  The 
paper  should  be  drawn  into  a  long,  fluffy  piece,  then  twisted 
lightly.  Hold  the  burning  paper  over  an  open  fire  or  a 
coal  hod  during  the  operation  of  singeing. 

Wash  the  poultry  quickly  in  cold  water ;  then  season  it 
with  salt,  and  fill  the  crop  and  breast  with  dressing.  Draw 
the  skin  at  the  neck  on  to  the  back,  and  fasten  it  with  a 
skewer  to  the  backbone.  Turn  the  tips  of  the  wings  tinier 
the  back,  and  fasten  them  in  that  position  with  a  long 
skewer.  Pass  a  short  skewer  through  the  lower  part  of  the 
legs,  and  then  through  the  tail.  Tie  with  long  piece  of 
twine.  Turn  the  bird  on  its  breast  and  bring  the  string 
up  around  the  skewers  that  hold  the  neck  and  wings.  Tie 
firmly,  and  the  bird  will  be  ready  for  cooking. 

Boiled  Fowl. 

A  boiled  fowl  is  one  of  the  most  satisfactory  and  eco- 
nomical dishes  of  poultry.  The  meat  can  be  used  in  making 
a  great  variety  of  dishes,  and  the  water  in  which  the  fowl 
wras  boiled  may  be  used  in  soups,  or  for  the  foundation  of 
meat,  fish,  and  vegetable  sauces. 

Select  a  short,  plump,  fat  fowl.  Singe  and  draw  it,  and 
wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan,  breast 
down,  with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it.  When  the 
water  begins  to  boil,  skim  thoroughly ;  then  draw  the  stew- 
pan  back,  where  the  water  will  bubble  at  one  side  of  the 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


155 


pan,  until  the  fowl  is  tender.  This  you  can  tell  by  pressing 
the  wing  back  with  a  fork.  If  it  breaks  away  from  the 
breast  readily,  the  fowl  is  cooked  enough.  Take  the  stew- 
pan  from  the  fire,  and  set  it,  with  the  cover  off,  in  a  cool, 
airy  place.  When  cool,  take  up  the  fowl  and  put  it  away. 
Pour  the  water  into  a  large  bowl  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
for  future  use. 

If  the  fowl  is  to  be  served  hot,  take  it  up  when  tender, 
place  it  on  a  platter  and  pour  over  it  a  little  butter,  becha- 
mel, or  parsley  sauce.  Serve  the  remainder  of  the  sauce 
in  a  gravy  bowl. 

If  the  fowl  is  to  be  served  hot  for  dinner,  boil  four  ounces 
of  mixed  salt  pork  with  it. 

The  time  of  boiling  a  fowl  cannot  be  given,  because  it 
depends  upon  the  age.  A  fowl  about  a  year  old  will  cook 
in  two  hours ;  one  two  or  three  years  old  may  take  three  or 
four  hours. 

Cold  boiled  fowl  may  be  used  for  a  fricassee,  blanquette, 
salad,  pie,  creamed  chicken,  croquettes,  etc. 


Roast  Chicken. 


1  chicken,  weighing  four  or  five 

pounds. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter. 
Salt,  pepper,  flour. 

Dressing. 
1  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
%  teaspoonful  of  powdered  thyme. 

do.  do.  sage, 

do.  do.  savory. 

^         do.  do.  marjoram. 

2  generous  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 

ter. 


Have  all  the  materials  for  the  dressing  mixed  together  in 
a  bowl,  cutting  the  butter  into  small  bits.  Remember  that 
there  is  no  liquid  used  in  this  dressing.  Clean  the  chicken 
and  stuff  the  crop  and  body  with  the  dressing.  Truss  the 
chicken  and  dredge  it  with  salt.  Rub  soft  butter  over  the 
breast  and  legs,  and  dredge  thickly  with  flour.  Place  a 
rack  in  the  dripping-pan,  and,  after  laving  the  chicken  on 


156        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


it,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven  and  baste  the  chicken  every  fifteen  minutes,  pouring 
over  it  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  until  every  part  is 
well  moistened,  and  then  dredging  lightly  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  flour.  At  the  last  basting  omit  the  gravy,  and  moisten 
instead  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  hot  water ;  then  dredge  lightly  with  flour. 
After  the  first  half-hour  the  heat  of  the  oven  should  be 
reduced.  It  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  to  cook  a  chicken 
weighing  four  or  five  pounds.  If  the  tin  kitchen  be  used, 
the  chicken  should  be  prepared  and  basted  in  the  same 
manner,  but  it  will  take  fifteen  minutes  longer  to  cook  it. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  a  garnish  of  parsley. 


Roast  Turkey. 


A  turkey  weighing  eight  or  nine 

pounds. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Salt,  pepper,  flour. 
Double  the  amount  of  dressing 
given  for  roast  chicken. 


Prepare  and  cook  the  turkey  the  same  as  directed  for 
roast  chicken  ;  cooking  it,  however,  two  hours  and  a  half. 
It  makes  a  pleasant  change  to  stuff  the  crop  with  a  mix- 
ture prepared  as  for  sausage  cakes.  Fill  the  rest  of  the 
body  with  the  usual  dressing. 


Chicken  Gravy. 


\y2  pints  of  cold  water. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
The  neck,  liver,  heart,  and  gizzard 
of  the  chicken. 


Wash  the  giblets  —  that  is,  the  neck,  liver,  etc.  —  and 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  water.  When  the  water 
boils,  skim  it.  Simmer  for  two  hours  or  more.  There 
should  be  about  half  a  pint  of  liquid  at  this  time.  Take  up 
the  giblets.  Mash  the  liver  until  perfectly  fine,  and  return 
to  the  liquid.    Put  the  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan  and 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


157 


place  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until 
brown.  Pour  on  this,  gradually,  the  liquid  in  the  saucepan, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Season  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  this  sauce  back  into  the  saucepan ;  cover,  and  set 
back  where  it  will  keep  hot. 

When  the  chicken  is  cooked,  pour  the  gravy  from  the 
dripping-pan  into  this  sauce.    Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Turkey  gravy  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 


Turkey  or  Chicken  Dressing. 


1  l/z  pints  of  stale  bread. 
1  gill  of  cracker  crumbs. 
1  egg- 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

)/$  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


^3  teaspoonful  of  sage. 
%  teaspoonful  of  savory. 
]/z  teaspoonful  of  marjoram. 

teaspoonful  of  thyme. 
*4  cupful  of  butter. 


Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  until  soft ;  then  press  out 
all  the  water.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients  to  the  bread, 
and  mix  well.  Fill  the  breast  of  the  turkey  or  chicken  with 
this,  and  put  the  remainder  in  the  body  of  the  bird. 


Breaded  Chicken. 


A  young  roasting  chicken. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
1  level  tablespoonful  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  gill  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 


Use  a  chicken  weighing  about  three  or  four  pounds,  and 
have  it  split  down  the  back.  Singe  and  wipe  it.  Let  the 
tips  remain  on  the  wings.  Turn  the  wings  back  nnd  skewer 
them  into  place.  Fasten  the  neck  under  the  body.  Press 
the  chicken  out  flat,  and  press  the  legs  back  oil  the  body, 
skewering  them  in  this  position.  Season  with  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  place  in  a  dripping-pan.  Rub  the  soft  butter 
over  the  breast  and  legs,  and  then  sprinkle  the  crumbs  over 
the  chicken.    Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  foi 


158     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


forty-five  minutes.  Reduce  the  heat  after  the  first  fifteen 
minutes. 

Remember  that  the  chicken  is  put  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  split  side  down,  and  that  there  is  no  water  or  basting 
of  any  kind  used. 

This  dish  is  especially  good  served  with  a  Tartar  sauce, 
but  it  is  very  good  without  any  sauce  whatever. 


Pried  Chicken. 


1  tender  chicken. 

2  ounces  of  salt  pork. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
l/2  pint  of  milk. 


1  generous  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Singe  the  chicken  and  wipe  it  with  a  damp  towel.  Cut 
it  into  handsome  joints.  Season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  it  in  the  flour.  Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices,  and 
fry  it  slowly  until  all  the  fat  has  been  extracted,  then  take 
out  the  pork.  Draw  the  frying-pan  to  a  hotter  part  of  the 
range,  and  when  the  fat  begins  to  smoke  lay  in  the  slices  of 
chicken.  Fry  the  chicken  brown  on  all  sides.  It  will  take 
about  half  an  hour  to  cook  it.  When  it  is  done,  arrange  it 
on  a  warm  platter.  Put  the  butter  with  the  fat  remaining 
in  the  pan,  and  add  all  the  flour  that  did  not  cling  to  the 
chicken,  stirring  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Gradually  add 
the  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  the  sauce  boils  up, 
taste  it,  to  learn  if  it  requires  more  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  chicken  and  serve.  If  parsley  be  liked, 
add  to  the  sauce  half  a  teaspoonful,  finely  minced. 


Creamed  Chicken. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  fowl  or  1     gills  of  milk  or  cream, 

chicken.  ]/s  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter.  1%  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  A  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
1  gill  of  chicken  stock. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


159 


Have  the  chicken  free  from  skin,  flit,  and  bones,  and  cut 
into  long  strips.  Season  it  with  half  of  the  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire. 
When  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is 
smooth  and  frothy.  Now  add  the  stock,  stirring  all  the 
time,  and  when  this  boils  gradually  add  the  milk.  Season 
the  sauce  with  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and 
the  onion  juice.  Put  the  chicken  in  this  and  simmer  for 
ten  minutes. 

This  dish  is  suitable  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  supper,  or 
dinner. 

Creamed  Turkey. 

Prepare  and  serve  cold  roast  or  boiled  turkey  the  same 
as  chicken. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

1  chicken  or  fowl,  weighing  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

three  or  four  pounds.  3  pints  of  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  1  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion.  y2  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

Singe  the  chicken  and  cut  it  into  handsome  joints. 
Wash  it,  and,  putting  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  water,  place  it 
on  the  fire.  When  the  water  begins  to  boil,  skim  carefully, 
and  draw  the  stewpan  back  to  a  place  where  the  liquid  will 
just  bubble  at  the  side.  Put  the  onion  and  butter  in  a 
small  pan  and  cook  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  the 
onions  from  the  butter  and  add  them  to  the  chicken.  Add 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  butter  remaining  in  the 
pan,  and  cook  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Add  this  to  the 
stew.  Mix  the  remainder  of  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  gill 
of  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  stew.  Add  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  gently  for  three  hours.  At  the  end  of  this 
time  draw  the  stewpan  to  a  hotter  part  of  the  range,  and, 
after  adding  some  dumplings,  cook  just  ten  minutes  after 
the  cover  is  put  on  the  stewpan. 


i6o     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Chicken  Pie. 


\l/2  pints  of  cooked  chicken. 

1  pint  of  stock. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  the  materials  named  in  the 


rule  for  delicate  paste. 


Have  the  chicken  free  from  fat,  skin,  and  bones,  and  cut 
it  in  delicate  pieces.  Season  it  with  half  the  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  place  on  the  fire. 
Add  the  flour  to  the  melted  butter,  and  stir  until  smooth 
and  frothy.  Gradually  add  the  stock,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Season  with  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the 
chicken  into  the  sauce,  and  turn  into  the  dish  in  which  the 
pie  is  to  be  baked.  Set  away  to  cool.  When  it  is  time  to 
finish  the  pie,  roll  the  paste  into  the  same  shape  as  the  top 
of  the  dish,  but  a  little  larger.  Make  a  hole  in  the  centre 
to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Cover  the  meat  with  this 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  one  hour. 


Singe  and  wash  the  duck,  and  then  wipe  it.  Season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  half  an  onion  in  the  body. 
Truss  it,  and  dredge  lightly  with  flour.  Roast  it  in  a  hot 
oven  for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  it  with  a  hot  currant  sauce. 
This  time  will  cook  the  duck  rare,  which  is  the  proper  way 
to  cook  all  kinds  of  ducks.  If,  however,  you  prefer  to 
have  it  well  done,  stuff  it,  and  treat  it  exactly  like  roast 
chicken. 


White  Fricassee  of  Chicken. 


Make  this  the  same  as  the  filling  for  chicken  pie. 


Roast  Duck. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


161 


Roast  Grouse. 


r  grouse. 

1  small  onion. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter. 


i  ounce  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Salt,  pepper,  flour. 


Cut  off  the  neck  and  wings  close  to  the  body.  Cut  off 
the  feet  in  the  joints,  or  just  below  j  see  that  all  the  feath- 
ers are  removed ;  then  draw  the  bird  and  wash  quickly  in 
cold  water.  Peel  the  onion  and  cut  it  into  four  parts.  Put 
these  into  the  body  of  the  bird  and  then  truss  it.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  the  butter  over  the  breast  and 
legs  of  the  grouse,  then  dredge  thickly  with  flour.  Have 
the  pork  cut  in  thin  slices  and  lay  it  over  the  breast,  fasten- 
ing it  with  small  skewers  or  wooden  toothpicks.  Rest  the 
grouse  on  its  back  on  a  tin  plate  and  place  it  in  a  hot  oven. 
Cook  for  half  an  hour,  having  the  oven  quite  hot  the  first 
fifteen  minutes,  and  then  reducing  the  heat.  When  the 
bird  is  done,  remove  the  skewers.  Pour  half  a  pint  of 
bread  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  and  place  the  bird  on  this, 
breast  up.  Sprinkle  fried  crumbs  over  the  bird  and  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  a  few  sprays  of  parsley. 


Roast  Partridge. 

Prepare  and  serve  the  same  as  grouse  ;  but  as  it  is  white 
meat  it  must  be  well  done.  Cook  it  for  forty-five  minutes, 
and  baste  it  every  ten  minutes  with  a  gill  of  hot  stock  or 
wrater,  in  which  have  been  melted  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter. 

Roast  Ptarmigan. 

Cook  and  serve  this  exactly  the  same  as  grouse,  except 
that  it  should  be  cooked  but  twenty  minutes,  being  smaller 
than  grouse. 

ii 


162     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Broiled  Small  Birds. 


All  birds  that  are  to  be  broiled  must  be  split  in  the 
back  ;  the  necks  must  be  cut  off,  the  birds  wiped,  and  the 
legs  drawn  up  over  the  breast.  This  will  give  a  compact 
form  to  the  bird.  Now  season  with  salt.  Spread  soft  butter 
over  the  breast  and  legs,  and  then  dredge  thickly  with  flour. 
Put  in  the  double -broiler  and  cook  over  clear  coals,  having 
the  buttered  and  floured  side  toward  the  fire  at  first,  that 
the  two  materials  may  unite  and  form  a  paste  on  the  bird. 
Cook  quail  or  squab  for  ten  minutes,  and  smaller  birds  six 
or  eight.  Partridge  and  grouse  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  way,  but  the  grouse  should  be  cooked  for  twenty 
minutes  and  the  partridge  thirty.  Serve  the  small  birds  on 
slices  of  crisp  toast. 


Have  the  rabbit  skinned  and  drawn.  Wash  it,  and  then 
cut  into  joints.  Next  season  it  with  the  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  it  in  the  flour,  covering  every  part.  Put  the  fat  in 
a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  lay  in  the  rab- 
bit and  cook  it  until  brown  on  all  sides.  When  the  meat 
is  well  browned  take  it  up.  Into  the  fat  remaining  in  the 
pan  put  such  part  of  the  flour  as  did  not  cling  to  the  rabbit, 
and  stir  until  brown.  Gradually  add  the  cold  water,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  When  this  boils  up,  taste  it  to  see  if  it  is 
seasoned  enough ;  then  lay  the  browned  meat  in  the  gravy 
and  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  boiled  rice  or 
boiled  hominy  with  this  dish. 

If  one  like  the  flavor  of  anions  or  herbs,  a  little  may  be 
added  to  the  gravy. 


Fricassee  of  Rabbit. 


I  rabbit. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  pork  fat. 
i  pint  of  water. 


iyi  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
6  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


163 


Curried  Rabbit. 


Prepare  the  rabbit  as  for  fricassee.  Add  10  the  gravy 
one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  curry-powder,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water. 
Always  serve  boiled  rice  with  this  dish. 


Have  a  venison  steak  cut  an  inch  thick,  and  cook  it  the 
same  as  beefsteak.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Serve  currant  jelly  with  the  steak. 


1  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly. 

Have  the  steak  cut  an  inch  thick.  Put  the  butter  in  the 
frying-pan  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  put  in  the 
steak.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  turning  often.  When  it  ha? 
been  cooking  for  five  minutes  add  the  jelly  and  seasoning 
Serve  hot. 


Broiled  Venison. 


Venison  Steak  Saute. 


1  pound  of  venison  steak. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
t1^  teaspoonful  of  cayenne. 


CHAPTER  XL 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 


Brown  Sauce. 


y2  pint  of  brown  stock. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


i  tablespoonful  of  flour,  generous. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  a  hot  fire. 
When  the  butter  becomes  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  the 
mixture  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  turns  dark  brown. 
Draw  the  pan  back  to  a  cool  part  of  the  range,  and  stir 
the  mixture  until  it  cools  slightly.  Now  gradually  add  the 
stock,  stirring  all  the  time.  Move  the  pan  back  to  a  hot 
part  of  the  range,  and  stir  the  sauce  until  it  boils.  Add 
the  seasoning,  and  simmer  for  three  minutes.  It  will  then 
be  ready  to  serve. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When 
it  becomes  smoking  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  it 
turns  dark  brown.  Draw  the  pan  back,  and  gradually  add 
the  cold  stock  or  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the 
other  ingredients,  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes ;  then  strain 
and  use.  If  there  be  no  stock,  and  water  be  used,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  beef  extract. 


Brown  Sauce,  No.  2. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
\y2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
i}i  gills  of  stock  or  water, 
i  bay  leaf. 


i  small  slice  of  onion, 
i  whole  clove. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND   FISH.  1 65 


This  sauce  may  be  used  with  roasted  or  broiled  meats,  or 
when  warming  up  meats ;  or  it  may  be  served  with  baked 
fish. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Make  a  brown  sauce  and  add  to  it  half  a  small  can  of 
mushrooms,  or  four  ounces  of  fresh  ones.  If  canned  mush- 
rooms be  used,  simmer  them  for  five  minutes,  but  if  fresh 
ones  be  used,  simmer  twice  as  long.  Any  large  mushrooms 
should  be  cut  up. 


White  Sauce. 

Yz  pint  of  hot  milk.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Y2.  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 

1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour.  1  spray  of  parsley. 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  then  beat  the  flour  with 
it  until  light  and  creamy.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  onion 
juice,  and  beat  a  little  longer.  Pour  the  hot  milk  on  this. 
Add  the  parsley,  and  place  the  saucepan  on  the  range. 
Stir  until  the  sauce  boils.  Cook  for  two  minutes  ;  then  re- 
move the  parsley,  and  serve.  A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg 
may  be  added  to  this  sauce,  if  the  flavor  be  liked. 

This  sauce  is  good  to  serve  with  boiled  fish  and  various 
kinds  of  meat  and  vegetables. 


Bechamel  Sauce. 


y2  pint  of  hot  white  stock. 
1  gill  of  cream. 

1  heaped  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Piece  of  onion  the  size  of  half  a 
dollar. 


Piece  of  carrot  the  size  of  a  quarter 

of  a  dollar. 
1  spray  of  parsley. 
1  bay  leaf. 
A  tiny  bit  of  mace. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Ye  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Beat  the  flour  and  butter  together.  Pour  the  hot  stock 
on  the  mixture.    Add  the  seasonings,  and  place  on  the 


1 66      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

fire.  Stir  the  sauce  until  it  begins  to  boil ;  then  move  the 
saucepan  back  to  a  place  where  the  contents  will  just  bubble 
at  the  side  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  cream ;  and  when 
the  sauce  boils  up,  strain  and  serve. 


Mustard  Sauce. 


i  gill  of  hot  milk. 

i  large  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  of  flour. 


i  level  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

teaspoonful  of  salt. 
A  grain  of  cayenne. 


Beat  the  butter,  flour,  and  mustard  together  until  smooth 
and  creamy.  Pour  the  hot  milk  on  this  mixture,  and  place 
the  saucepan  on  the  range.  Stir  until  the  sauce  boils. 
Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

This  sauce  is  nice  to  serve  with  broiled  lobster,  roasted 
or  steamed  clams,  and  other  fish. 


Cream  Sauce. 


y2  pint  of  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

y2  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  pan  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  it 
becomes  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth  and 
frothy.  Draw  the  pan  back  and  gradually  add  the  milk, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Set  the  pan  back  in  a  hotter  place. 
Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  the  sauce  until  it  boils ; 
then  serve.  It  will  not  do  to  let  this  sauce  simmer  or  stand 
for  any  length  of  time. 


Parsley  Sauce. 

Put  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley  with  the  cream 
sauce.  If  the  sauce  be  liked  richer,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
may  be  added  with  the  parsley. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 


Egg  Sauce. 


1  hard-boiled  egg. 

2  heaped  tablespoonf  uls  of  butter. 
I  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  scant  half-pint  of  boiling  water. 


Boil  the  egg  for  ten  minutes ;  then  drop  into  cold  water, 
keeping  it  there  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  shell,  and 
with  a  plated  knife  chop  the  egg  rather  fine.  Put  the  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  flour, 
salt,  and  pepper  into  this,  and  then  pour  on  the  boiling  wa- 
ter. Cook  for  two  minutes,  and  finally  add  the  chopped 
egg  and  serve.    This  sauce  is  suitable  for  boiled  fish. 


Butter  Sauce. 

Make  this  sauce  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  egg 
sauce,  omitting  the  egg. 


Caper  Sauce. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  x/%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

l/2  pint  of  water.  \yz  tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 

Set  on  the  fire  a  small  stewpan  containing  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter.  When  the  butter  gets  hot,  add  the  flour,  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  becomes  smooth  and  frothy,  being 
careful  not  to  brown  it.  Draw  the  pan  back  and  gradually 
add  the  water.  Stir  the  sauce  until  it  boils  ;  then  add  the 
salt,  pepper,  and  the  remaining  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Boil  for  one  minute ;  then  add  the  capers,  first  taking  out  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  the  sauce  to  pour  over  the  mutton. 


Curry  Sauce. 

i  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

I  tablespoonful  of  flour.  I  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

i  tablespoonful  of  curry-powder.  %  P*int  of  milk, 

i  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion.  %  pint  of  cooked  meat 


1 68     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Put  the  butter  and  onion  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the 
fire.  Cook  slowly  until  the  onion  begins  to  turn  a  light 
strawcolor.  Now  add  the  flour  and  curry-powder,  and  stir 
until  frothy.  Gradually  pour  in  the  milk,  stirring  all  the 
while.  When  the  sauce  boils  up,  season  with  the  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  the  half-pint  of  tender  cooked  meat,  cut 
very  fine.  Chicken  or  turkey  is  particularly  nice  for  this 
dish.  Less  meat  can  be  used.  Cook  three  minutes  longer 
and  serve  with  a  dish  of  rice. 

The  mode  of  serving  at  table  is  to  put  a  spoonful  of  rice 
on  the  plate  and  pour  a  spoonful  of  sauce  over  it. 


Beat  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  until  smooth  and 
light.  Pour  upon  this  mixture  the  hot  stock,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Now  add  the  salt,  pepper-corns,  onion,  and 
parsley,  and  stir  until  the  sauce  boils ;  then  cover,  set  back, 
and  cook  gently  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  tomato,  and 
cook  for  three  minutes  longer.  Finally  add  the  milk,  and 
stir  until  it  boils.    Strain  and  serve  at  once. 


Bisque  Sauce. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

\l/2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

y2  pint  of  hot  stock,  —  white  if 


10  pepper-corns. 

i  gill  of  strained  tomato. 

i  gill  of  milk. 

i  small  slice  of  onion. 

i  sprig  of  parsley. 


possible. 


Hollandaise  Sauce. 


I  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
i  gill  of  boiling  water. 


Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

teaspoonful  of  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  of  cayenne. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  then  beat  in  the  unbeaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs.    Add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH.  1 69 

Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  beat  the 
sauce  for  two  minutes.  Add  the  boiling  water,  and  con- 
tinue beating  until  the  sauce  is  thick  and  light.  It  will 
take  about  five  minutes  for  this.  Serve  either  in  a  warm 
bowl,  or  poured  around  or  over  the  fish,  meat,  or  vegetable. 


Tomato  Sauce. 


3  gills  of  canned  tomatoes. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Yd  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  whole  cloves. 

A  tiny  bit  of  onion. 


Put  the  tomatoes,  onion,  cloves,  salt,  and  pepper  in  a 
stewpan  and  set  on  the  range.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  after 
the  mixture  begins  to  simmer.  Put  the  butter  in  a  small 
pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot  add  the  flour,  and  stir 
until  smooth  and  frothy.  Stir  this  into  the  tomatoes,  and 
simmer  for  four  minutes  longer.  Rub  the  sauce  through  a 
strainer  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.    Serve  hot. 


Tartar  Sauce. 


y  gill  of  olive  oil. 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

[  level  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

yi  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


y  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 
y  tablespoonful  of  minced  capers. 
y2  tablespoonful  of  minced  cucum- 
ber pickles. 
I  egg  yolk. 


Beat  the  egg,  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard  together  until 
thick  and  light ;  then  add  the  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
beating  after  each  addition  of  oil,  until  all  is  used.  As 
the  sauce  thickens,  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  to  thin  it. 
When  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick,  stir  in  the  minced 
pickle  and  capers. 

Tartar  sauce  may  be  served  with  many  kinds  of  breaded, 
fried,  and  broiled  fish  or  meat. 


170     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Mint  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  mint. 

1  gill  of  vinegar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Wash  the  mint  and  chop  it  fine.  Put  it  in  a  dish  with 
the  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  for  twenty  minutes 
or  longer.  If  the  vinegar  be  very  strong,  half  vinegar  and 
half  water  may  be  used. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
x  teaspoonful  of  vinegar. 


1  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly. 
1  small  bay  leaf. 
1  clove. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  t*nion. 
1  gill  of  stock. 


Cook  the  butter  and  onion  together  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy.  Gradually 
add  the  stock,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  the  sauce  boils 
up,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  simmer  for  five  minutes. 
Strain,  and  serve  hot. 

This  sauce  is  for  roast  venison  or  mutton. 


Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

I  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

yi,  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  beat  the  lemon  juice  into 
this ;  then  add  the  seasoning  and  parsley. 

This  butter  is  not  to  be  cooked.  It  should  be  spread  on 
broiled  meats  or  fish  like  plain  butter.  The  heat  of  the 
food  will  melt  it  sufficiently. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 


171 


Bread  Sauce. 


y2  pint  of  milk. 

1  generous  gill  of  dried  bread. 

l/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Yd  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  tablespoon! ul  of  butter. 
yi  of  a  small  onion. 


The  bread  used  should  be  stale,  and  it  should  be  dried 
in  a  warm  —  not  hot  —  oven.  W  hen  it  is  so  dry  that  it 
will  readily  crumble,  place  it  on  a  bread  board,  and  with 
a  rolling-pin  crush  it  lightly  ;  for  about  two  thirds  of  the 
bread,  when  done,  should  be  in  the  form  of  coarse  crumbs. 
Measure  out  half  a  cupful  of  these  crumbs,  and,  putting 
them  in  the  flour  sieve,  rub  all  the  fine  crumbs  through. 
Put  these  fine  crumbs  in  the  double-boiler  with  the  milk 
and  onion.  Place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  half  an  hour. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  take  out  the  onion,  and  add  the 
salt,  white  pepper,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put 
the  remaining  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  set  the  pan  on 
the  stove.  When  the  butter  becomes  hot,  add  the  coarse 
crumbs,  and  stir  them  until  they  are  brown  and  crisp.  Now 
spread  the  sauce  on  a  warm  dish,  and  place  the  bird  or  fowl 
on  the  same  dish.  Sprinkle  the  crumbs  over  all,  and  garnish 
with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.    Serve  very  hot. 


CHAPTER  XII. 
SALADS* 

A SALAD  should  be  light,  fresh,  and  crisp ;  no  matter 
what  it  is  made  of,  it  should  never  be  "  mussy." 
Much  decoration  or  handling  will  produce  a  heavy-looking 
dish. 

Celery,  lettuce,  tomatoes,  etc.  should  be  thoroughly  chilled 
before  being  combined  in  a  salad.  All  meats  and  fish  that 
are  to  be  served  in  a  salad  must  be  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, vinegar,  and  oil  before  being  combined  with  the  green 
vegetable  and  the  dressing.  It  is  well  to  have  this  season- 
ing added  several  hours  before  the  salad  is  to  be  served. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 


y2  pint  of  olive  oil. 
i  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
)/2  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
Yolks  of  two  uncooked  eggs. 
A  grain  of  cayenne. 


Put  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  being  careful  not 
to  let  any  of  the  white  go  in.  Adcf  the  dry  ingredients  to 
the  yolks,  and  place  the  bowl  in  a  flat  pan.  Put  a  little 
cold  water  and  ice  in  the  pan.  Beat  these  ingredients  until 
light  and  thick ;  then  begin  to  add  the  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a 
time.  Beat  well  between  each  addition  of  oil  When  the 
mixture  gets  thick  and  ropy,  a  larger  quantity  of  oil  may 
be  added  each  time.  When  the  dressing  is  so  thick  that 
the  beater  turns  hard,  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  to  thin 
it.    When  all  the  other  ingredients  have  been  used  add 


SALADS. 


173 


the  lemon  juice,  and  beat  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  This 
sauce  will  keep  for  three  or  four  weeks,  if  covered  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place. 

The  secret  of  success  in  making  a  Mayonnaise  dressing  is 
to  have  everything  cold,  to  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  dry 
ingredients  until  thick,  and  at  first  to  add  the  oil  only  in 
drops.  It  is  also  essential  that  the  beating  should  be  regu- 
lar, and  always  in  one  direction. 

If  a  milder  flavor  of  the  oil  be  liked,  a  gill  of  whipped 
cream  may  be  stirred  into  the  dressing  when  it  is  about  to 
be  used. 


Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  stir  into  them  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
mustard,  which  should  first  be  mixed  together.  Now  add  the 
vinegar,  and  place  the  bowl  on  the  range  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water.  Beat  constantly  with  an  egg-beater  until  the 
dressing  becomes  thick  and  light.  Take  from  the  fire  at 
once,  and  turn  into  a  cold  bowl  to  prevent  curdling ;  or  the 
bowl  in  which  it  was  cooked  may  be  placed  in  a  pan  of  ice 
water,  and  the  mixture  be  stirred  until  cool. 

Beat  the  cream  to  a  thick  froth,  and  stir  it  into  the  cold 
dressing.  If  you  have  no  cream  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter into  the  hot  mixture.  When  cold,  if  too  thick,  add  a 
few  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 


Cooked  Salad  Dressing. 


1  gill  of  vinegar. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 


yz  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  gill  of  rich  cream. 


French  Dressing. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil. 
I  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
3^  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Mix  these  ingredients  together  and  the  dressing  is  made. 
French  dressing  is  particularly  good  for  lettuce  and  cooked 
vegetables. 


174     MIss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Chicken  Salad. 

^  pint  of  chicken.  l/2  tablespoonful  of  oil. 

i  gill  of  celery,  white  and  tender.  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

i  gill  of  Mayonnaise  dressing.  }i  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

Have  tender  cooked  chicken,  free  from  fat,  skin,  and 
bone,  and  cut  into  cubes.  Season  it  with  the  vinegar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  oil,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  refrigerator  for  an 
hour  or  more.  Clean  the  celery  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices. 
Put  this  in  a  napkin  and  surround  it  with  ice.  It  should 
stand  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes  in  the  ice  bath,  and  will 
then  be  crisp. 

Mix  the  celery,  seasoned  chicken,  and  half  the  dressing. 
Heap  in  a  dish  and  mask  it  with  the  remainder  of  the  dress- 
ing. Garnish  the  dish  with  some  of  the  tiny,  bleached 
celery  leaves. 

In  summer  the  salad  may  be  made  with  lettuce.  Put 
two  or  three  tender  bleached  leaves  together,  and  place  a 
spoonful  of  chicken  in  the  centre  of  the  leaves.  Drop  a 
teaspoonful  of  dressing  on  the  chicken.  Arrange  these  let- 
tuce nests  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  at  once. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Make  the  same  as  chicken  salad,  substituting  lobster  for 
chicken  and  lettuce  for  celery. 

Fish  Salads. 

Any  kind  of  cold  fish  may  be  combined  with  lettuce  and 
the  Mayonnaise  dressing  or  cooked  dressing. 

Oysters  to  be  used  for  a  salad  should  be  heated  to  the 
boiling  point  in  their  own  liquor ;  then  skimmed,  drained, 
seasoned,  and  thoroughly  chilled  before  being  combined 
with  the  celery  or  lettuce. 


SALADS. 


175 


Vegetable  Salads. 

Any  kinds  of  vegetables  may  be  used  in  salads.  They 
may  be  seasoned  with  the  French  or  cooked  dressing.  A 
single  vegetable  may  be  used,  or  several  kinds  be  combined. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Have  the  lettuce  washed  clean,  and  then  let  it  remain  for 
a  little  time  in  ice  water  to  become  crisp.  Drain  well,  and 
dress  it  with  the  French,  Mayonnaise,  or  cooked  dressing. 
Serve  at  once. 

If  you  prefer,  the  lettuce  may  be  served  plain,  each  one 
dressing  it  to  please  himself. 

Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad. 


i%  pints  of  canned  tomatoes. 
%  box  of  gelatine. 
I  gill  of  cold  water. 
I  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  head  of  lettuce. 

^  pint  of  Mayonnaise  dressing 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Heat 
the  tomatoes  to  the  boiling  point,  and  stir  the  gelatine,  sugar, 
and  salt  into  the  vegetable.  Turn  this  mixture  into  a  mould, 
and  set  away  to  harden.  Have  the  lettuce  washed  and 
chilled.  Arrange  it  in  a  flat  dish,  and  turn  the  mould  of 
tomatoes  out  upon  it.  Heap  the  dressing  at  the  base  of 
the  mould.  This  salad  may  be  made  in  winter  when  it 
is  impossible  to  get  the  fresh  tomatoes. 

Beet  Salad. 

Cold  boiled  beets  may  be  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  the 
slices  into  small  pieces  ;  or  the  beets  may  be  cut  into  small 
cubes.  Season  with  Mayonnaise  sauce  or  the  cooked  salad 
dressing,  and  serve. 


I/O     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Potato  Salad. 


i  pint  of  potato  cubes. 
]/2  pint  of  celery. 
^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
T\j-  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 


i  tablespoonful  of  oiL 
i  tablespoonful  minced  chives,  or 
I  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice, 
i  gill  of  cooked  dressing. 


Have  the  potatoes  cut  into  cubes.  Mix  the  oil,  vinegar, 
salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice  together,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
potatoes.  Stir  lightly  with  a  fork  and  set  away  in  a  cold 
place  for  several  hours.  At  serving  time  add  the  celery  and 
dressing,  stirring  lightly  with  a  fork.  Turn  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  garnish  with  celery  leaves  or  parsley. 


Potato  Salad,  No.  2. 


I  pint  of  potato  cubes. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion. 


I  gill  of  cooked  dressing,  or  the 
quantity  of  French  dressing 
made  by  the  rule  given. 


Mix  the  seasonings  and  dressing  with  the  potato  cubes. 
Turn  into  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Let  the  salad 
stand  for  an  hour  or  more  before  serving,  that  the  season- 
ings may  strike  through  the  potatoes. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


VEGETABLES. 

ALL  vegetables  should  be  put  in  boiling  water  when  set 
on  the  stove  to  cook.  Peas,  asparagus,  potatoes,  and 
all  delicately  flavored  vegetables  should  be  only  covered 
with  water,  but  those  with  a  strong  flavor,  like  carrots,  tur- 
nips, cabbage,  onions,  and  dandelions,  should  be  cooked  in 
a  generous  quantity  of  boiling  water.  All  green  vegetables 
should  be  cooked  with  the  cover  partially  off  the  stewpan. 
It  gives  them  a  better  color  and  a  more  delicate  flavor. 

The  average  housekeeper  is  careless  as  to  the  time  of 
cooking  vegetables,  yet  a  vegetable  is  as  much  injured  by 
too  much  or  too  little  cooking  as  is  a  loaf  of  bread  or  cake. 
When  vegetables  are  underdone  they  are  hard  and  indi- 
gestible, and  when  overdone  they  become  dark,  strong- 
flavored,  and  indigestible. 

Now,  although  a  potato  will  be  hard  if  not  cooked 
enough,  even  two  minutes'  cooking  after  the  proper  time 
will  injure  it.  If  potatoes  be  covered  with  boiling  watei 
and  placed  on  the  fire  they  will  cook  in  thirty  minutes. 
If  they  be  very  small,  they  may  get  done  in  twenty-eight 
minutes,  and  if  they  be  large  it  may  take  thirty-two  to  cook 
them  sufficiently.  They  should  be  kept  boiling  all  the  time 
after  they  once  begin,  but  not  at  a  furious  rate,  as  a  too 
rapid  boiling  breaks  the  surface  of  the  potato  before  the 
centre  is  cooked.  The  time  of  cooking  is  to  be  counted 
from  the  moment  the  boiling  water  is  poured  over  the 
potatoes.  When  the  potatoes  are  done,  the  water  should 
be  poured  off  and  the  steam  allowed  to  escape.  Should 

12 


178     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

it  be  necessary  to  keep  them  warm  after  that,  cover  them 
with  a  coarse  towel,  never  with  the  pot  cover;  for  if  the 
steam  does  not  have  a  chance  to  escape  it  will  be  ab- 
sorbed by  the  potatoes,  which  will  become  sodden,  dark, 
and  strong-flavored.  Baked  potatoes  take  about  forty-five 
minutes  for  cooking.  A  great  deal  depends  upon  the 
oven.  If  it  be  necessary  to  keep  a  baked  potato  warm, 
break  it  open,  wrap  it  in  a  towel  and  put  it  in  a  warm 
place. 

Now,  as  to  turnips.  The  small  white  ones  should  be 
boiled,  if  cut  in  thin  slices,  for  thirty  minutes,  but  if  they 
be  cooked  whole,  forty  minutes'  time  will  be  needed.  Yel- 
low turnips,  when  sliced,  need  forty- five  minutes'  cooking. 

Carrots  should  be  cooked  for  forty-five  or  fifty  minutes ; 
cauliflower,  only  thirty  minutes;  with  peas  and  asparagus 
much  depends  upon  the  state  of  freshness  and  tenderness 
when  picked,  and  the  time  varies  from  twenty  to  thirty- 
five  minutes ;  indeed,  peas  sometimes  require  fifty  minutes' 
cookrng. 

It  is  a  pity  that  it  is  the  fashion  to  serve  such  vegetables 
as  peas  and  asparagus  in  a  sauce.  They  have  so  delicate 
a  flavor  that  only  a  little  salt  and  good  butter  should  be 
added  to  them.  This  is  true,  also,  of  turnips.  Cauliflower, 
onions,  and  carrots,  however,  need  a  sauce. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Pare  five  or  six  potatoes  and  let  them  stand  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour  or  more.  Forty  minutes  before  dinner  time 
put  them  in  a  kettle  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them, — 
enough  to  cover.  Put  the  cover  on  the  kettle  and  cook 
the  vegetables  for  half  an  hour,  counting  from  the  moment 
the  water  is  poured  over  them.  When  they  have  been 
cooking  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
At  the  end  of  the  half-hour  pour  off  all  the  water  and  set 
the  pan  on  the  back  part  of  the  range.    Cover  the  potatoes 


VEGETABLES. 


179 


with  a  clean,  coarse  towel.  At  serving  time  put  the  pota- 
toes in  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  with  a  napkin.  Never  put 
the  china  cover  on  the  dish.  Cooked  in  the  way  described, 
the  potatoes  will  be  mealy  and  have  a  fine  flavor. 


Stewed  Potatoes. 


1  quart  of  sliced  raw  potatoes. 

2  ounces  of  fat  bacon. 

^  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 
X  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  water. 


Have  the  potatoes  and  bacon  sliced  thin.  Spread  half 
the  meat  on  the  bottom  of  a  round  baking  dish.  Put  half 
of  the  potatoes  into  the  dish  and  sprinkle  half  of  the  season- 
ing over  them ;  then  spread  in  the  other  half,  and  use 
the  remainder  of  the  seasonings.  Mix  the  water  with  the 
flour,  and  pour  this  into  the  dish.  Now  spread  the  re- 
mainder of  the  bacon  on  top  of  the  potatoes.  Cover  the 
dish  closely,  and,  putting  into  a  moderately  hot  oven,  cook 
for  forty-five  minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  take  off  the 
cover  and  bake  twenty  minutes  longer.  The  bacon  should 
become  crisp  and  brown  at  the  end  of  that  time.  Serve 
in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked. 


Stewed  Potatoes,  No.  2. 

1  quart  of  raw  potatoes,  cut  in   I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

cubes.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork.  1  pint  of  water. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


Pare  and  cut  into  cubes  enough  potatoes  to  make  a 
quart,  and  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  one  hour. 
Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices,  and  fry  slowly  until  crisp 
and  brown ;  then  take  from  the  pan.    Add  the  flour  to 


180     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

the  hot  fat,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  brown ;  then  gradu- 
ally add  the  water,  and  boil  for  three  minutes.  Season 
with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  the  potato  cubes  free 
from  water,  and,  after  putting  them  in  a  stewpan,  pour 
the  sauce  over  them  and  lay  the  slices  of  pork  on  top. 
Cover  the  stewpan  and  place  where  the  contents  will  just 
bubble  for  forty- five  minutes ;  then  turn  into  a  warm  dish 
and  serve. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin. 


y2  pint  of  cooked  potato  cubes. 

I  gill  of  white  stock. 

%  gill  of  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

\yi  teaspoonfuls  of  butter. 


teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread 
crumbs. 


Have  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small  regular  cubes. 
Season  them  with  half  the  pepper  and  salt.  Put  one  tea- 
spoonful of  the  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan  and  set  on  the 
fire.  When  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth  and 
frothy  ;  then  gradually  add  the  stock.  When  this  boils,  add 
the  milk  and  the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil 
up  once.  Put  a  layer  of  this  sauce  in  a  small  escalop 
dish ;  then  put  the  potatoes  in  the  dish  and  pour  the 
remainder  of  the  sauce  over  them.  Sprinkle  the  grated 
bread  crumbs  over  this,  and  dot  with  the  half-teaspoonful 
of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
A  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  sauce,  if  these 
flavors  be  liked. 


Hashed  Potatoes. 


I  pint  of  sliced  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes. 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


l/e  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


VEGETABLES. 


181 


Season  the  potatoes  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the 
butter  in  the  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  add 
the  potatoes.  Stir  and  cut  the  potatoes  with  a  case  knife 
until  they  are  hashed  fine  and  have  become  hot  and  slightly 
browned.    Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Ham,  sausage,  or  pork  fat  may  be  substituted  for  the 
butter. 

Nichewaug  Potatoes. 


I  pint  of  potato  cubes. 

i  tablespoonful  of  minced  ham. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


X  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  tablespoonful  of  fat. 


Season  the  potato  cubes  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
a  tablespoonful  of  ham,  bacon,  pork,  or  sausage  fat  in  the 
frying-pan,  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  put  in  the 
potatoes  and  stir  frequently  with  a  fork  until  they  become 
brown.  When  the  potatoes  are  done,  turn  them  into  a  hot 
dish  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  cooked 
ham  over  them.    Serve  very  hot. 


Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 


I  pint  of  cold  boiled  potato  cubes, 
i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y%  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  level  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


i  teaspoonful  of  finely-minced  on- 
ion. 

teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 


Season  the  potatoes  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the 
butter  and  onion  in  the  frying-pan,  and  cook  slowly  until 
the  onion  begins  to  turn  a  delicate  straw-color.  Now  add 
the  potatoes,  and  cook  over  a  hot  fire  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  with  a  fork.  Add  the  parsley,  and  cook  for  one 
minute  longer.    Serve  very  hot. 


1 82     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Potato  Cakes. 


Shape  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  round,  flat  cakes.  For 
six  cakes  put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  place  on  the  fire.  When  the  butter  is  hot,  put  in 
the  potato  cakes  and  cook  until  brown  on  both  sides.  A 
tablespoonful  of  either  pork,  ham,  or  sausage  fat  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  butter. 


]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  the  potatoes  for  thirty  minutes;  then  drain  them 
and  mash  fine  and  light.  Beat  in  the  seasoning,  milk, 
and  butter.  Let  the  mixture  cool  slightly ;  then  roll  into 
cylinders  or  balls.  Beat  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate.  Coat 
the  croquettes,  one  at  a  time,  with  the  egg,  then  roll  in 
dried  bread  crumbs.  When  all  are  done,  fry  in  hot  fat 
until  they  are  brown,  —  about  a  minute  and  a  half.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve  at  once. 


Potatoes  of  medium  size  should  be  cooked  for  one  hour , 
very  large  ones  should  be  boiled  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or 
be  cut  into  several  parts. 


Potato  Croquettes. 


3  potatoes  of  good  size. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


}i  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


i  egg. 

Bread  crumbs. 


Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 


Baked.  Swoet  Potatoes. 


Wash  the  potatoes  and  bake  from  an  hour  to  an  hour 
and  a  quarter  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  The  longer  they 
bake,  the  sweeter  and  moister  they  will  be. 


VEGETABLES. 


183 


Browned  Sweet  Potatoes, 

Boil  for  half  an  hour  three  potatoes  of  medium  size. 
On  taking  them  from  the  water  pare  them.  Now  cut 
them  in  two,  lengthwise,  and  lay  them  in  the  pan  under 
a  piece  of  roasting  meat.  Season  them  with  salt,  and  let 
them  cook  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Or,  the  potatoes  may  be  boiled  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  paired  and  split,  then  laid  in  a  baking  pan,  sea- 
soned with  salt,  and  finally  spread  with  soft  butter.  It 
will  take  one  tablespoonfui  of  butter  for  three  potatoes. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 

Warming  over  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  may  be  warmed  in  several 
ways.  Cut  them  in  halves,  season  with  salt,  and  put  in  the 
frying-basket.  Fry  in  deep  fat  for  five  minutes  ;  then  season 
with  salt  and  serve. 

Another  way  is  to  cut  them  in  thick  slices  lengthwise,  dip 
them  in  melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
lightly  with  flour,  and  broil  over  clear  coals.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish. 

Still  another  mode  is  to  cut  them  in  round  slices,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  pork  or  bacon  fat. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Put  the  onions  in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  one  hour.  If  milk  be  plentiful,  pour  off 
the  water  when  the  onions  have  been  cooking  for  half  an 
hour,  and  add  just  enough  hot  milk  to  cover  them.  Simmer 
for  half  an  hour  longer ;  then  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  and  serve. 

For  half  a  dozen  small  onions  use  one  tablespoonfui  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper. 


184     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Creamed  Onions. 


Boil  three  or  four  onions  for  one  hour  in  two  quarts  ol 
boiling  water  into  which  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been 
sprinkled.  Pour  off  the  water  and  cut  up  the  onions.  Put 
them  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  half  a  pint  of  cream  sauce  over 
them.    Serve  hot. 


Prepare  the  creamed  onions  and  put  them  in  an  escalop 
dish.  Cover  them  with  a  gill  of  grated  bread  crumbs  and 
dot  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 


Select  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes.  Drop  them  into  boiling 
water  for  one  minute,  then  into  cold  water.  This  will  make 
the  skin  come  off  easily.  Put  them  on  a  plate  and  in  a  cool 
place, —  on  the  ice  if  possible.  At  serving  time  cut  them  in 
slices  and  place  on  a  cold  dish. 


Put  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  butter,  in  a  stewpan, 
and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  butter,  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes  longer. 

One  pint  of  fresh  tomatoes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same 
manner.  The  crackers  may  be  omitted.  Long  cooking 
makes  the  tomatoes  thicker  and  dark,  but  for  most  tastes 
this  is  not  desirable. 


Onions  au  Gratin. 


Sliced  Tomatoes. 


Stewed  Tomatoes. 


1  pint  of  canned  tomatoes. 
%,  gill  of  fine  cracker  crumbs. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
^  tablesponful  of  sugar. 
l/2  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


VEGETABLES. 


Tomatoes  au  Gratin. 

i  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes.  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 

i  gill  of  dried  bread  crumbs.  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread       teaspoonful  of  pepper, 

crumbs.  \}i  teaspoonfuls  of  butter. 

Reserve  the  grated  bread  crumbs  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  butter.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredients  together  and 
turn  into  a  small  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  the  grated  bread 
crumbs  over  this.  Cut  the  butter  into  small  bits,  and 
sprinkle  over  the  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  hot. 


Beets, 

Beets,  when  young  and  fresh,  will  cook  in  forty  minutes, 
but  as  they  grow  larger  they  require  longer  cooking.  The 
time  has  to  be  increased  as  the  season  advances,  and  in 
winter  beets  require  from  two  to  three  hours'  boiling. 
Wash  them  in  cold  water,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
skin  or  little  tendrils.  Put  them  in  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  done,  —  the  time  depending  upon  the  season.  Lay 
them  in  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skin ;  then  slice  them 
into  a  hot  dish,  and  season  with  salt  and  butter.    Serve  hot. 


Boiled  Turnips. 

I  quart  of  white  turnip  cubes.       i  I  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter.  |  I  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Pare  and  cut  up  enough  of  the  small  flat  white  turnips  to 
make  one  quart.  Let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour 
or  more.  Pour  off  all  the  water  and  turn  the  turnips  into  a 
stewpan  containing  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Cook  for 
just  thirty  minutes  and  then  pour  off  all  the  water.  Put  into 
the  saucepan  with  the  turnips,  butter,  sugar,  salt,  and  one 
gill  of  boiling  water.    Place  the  saucepan  on  the  hottest 


1 86     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


part  of  the  fire  and  cook  the  turnips  rapidly  until  all  the 
liquid  has  been  absorbed,  shaking  the  pan  frequently  to 
prevent  the  turnips  from  burning.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Pare  one  yellow  turnip  or  six  white  ones  and  cut  in  slices. 
Put  in  a  large  stevvpan  with  a  generous  supply  of  boiling 
water.  If  white  turnips  be  used,  cook  them  for  half  an 
hour ;  but  if  the  yellow  kind  be  taken,  cook  for  fifty  or  sixty 
minutes.  Too  little  water  and  too  much  cooking  will  make 
any^  turnips  strong-flavored,  and  give  them  a  dark  color. 
When  the  turnips  are  done,  drain  off  all  the  water  and  mash 
them  well.    Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Boiled  Carrots. 

Scrape  and  cut  into  cubes  enough  raw  carrots  to  make  a 
quart.  Cook  them  for  one  hour  in  three  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  then  proceed  as  directed  in  the  rule  for  boiled 
turnips.  White  stock  may  be  substituted  for  the  gill  of 
boiling  water. 

Turnips,  carrots,  and  green  peas,  cooked  in  this  manner, 
and  then  mixed  together,  make  a  handsome  and  savory 
dish. 

Success  in  cooking  these  vegetables  depends  upon  their 
being  boiled  in  plenty  of  water,  and  for  only  the  time  men- 
tioned ;  also  in  cooking  very  rapidly  after  the  seasonings  are 
added. 

Parsnips. 

Scrape  and  slice  the  parsnips,  and  let  them  stand  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Drain  them  and  put  them  in 
a  stewpan  with  plenty  of  boiling  water.  Cook  them,  if  fresh, 
for  forty-five  minutes  ;  but  if  they  have  been  out  of  the  ground 
any  length  of  time  they  will  require  an  hour's  cooking. 


VEGETABLES. 


I87 


When  they  have  been  boiling  for  half  an  hour,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  for  about  a  pint  of  the  parsnips.  Drain, 
and  season  them  with  salt  and  butter ;  or,  pour  a  butter  or 
Bech£mal  sauce  over  them. 


Salsify. 

Cook  this  vegetable  the  same  as  parsnips. 


Boiled  Cauliflower. 

1  cauliflower  of  medium  size.        I  *4  pint  of  cream  or  Bechemal 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  I  sauce. 

Remove  the  leaves  from  the  cauliflower,  and  place  it  head 
downward  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  to  which  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  an  hour  or 
more.  Have  about  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  put  the  cauliflower  into  it  head  down.  Cover,  and 
cook  gently  for  thirty  minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
drain  the  cauliflower  and  put  it  in  a  deep  dish.  Dredge 
lightly  with  salt,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 


Cauliflower  au  Gratin. 


3  gills  of  cold  boiled  cauliflower. 
y2  pint  of  cream  sauce. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


}i  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

1  gill  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 


With  a  fork,  break  the  cauliflower  into  small  pieces ;  then 
sprinkle  the  salt  and  pepper  over  it.  Put  a  layer  of  sauce 
in  a  small  escalop  dish,  next  a  layer  of  cauliflower,  then  a 
second  layer  of  sauce,  then  cauliflower,  and  finish  with 
sauce.  Cover  this  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  dot  with 
the  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  twenty 
minutes. 


1 88      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Green  Corn. 

The  fresher  the  corn  is,  the  less  time  it  will  take  to  cook. 
It  should  be  freed  from  husks  and  the  silk  threads.  Have  a 
large  saucepan  nearly  full  of  boiling  water.  Drop  the  corn 
into  this,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.    Serve  in  a  napkin. 


Canned  Corn. 

i  can  of  corn.  I  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

i  gill  of  milk.  I     i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  double-boiler,  and  heat  to 
the  boiling  point ;  it  will  take  about  ten  minutes.  Serve 
at  once.    Too  much  cooking  spoils  this  dish. 


Corn  Oysters. 


y2  pint  of  grated  green  corn. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
i  gill  of  flour, 
i  egg. 


teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Y%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Mix  the  flour,  seasoning,  and  corn  together.  Add  the 
butter,  melted,  and  beat  well.  Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and 
add  to  the  mixture.  Fry  on  a  griddle,  in  cakes  a  little 
larger  than  a  silver  dollar.  Serve  with  the  meat  course  at 
breakfast. 

String  Beans. 

String  the  beans  and  then  break  them  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  long.  Wash  them,  and  let  them  stand  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Cook  them  in  plenty  of  boiling 
water  for  two  hours.  When  they  have  been  cooking  for  one 
hour  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  each  quart  of  beans. 
When  done,  pour  off  all  the  water  and  add  to  the  beans  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 


VEGETABLES. 


water.  If  not  salt  enough,  add  a  little  more  seasoning. 
Return  to  the  fire  for  three  minutes ;  then  serve. 

Butter  Beans. 
These  are  cooked  the  same  as  string  beans. 

Fresh  Lima  Beans. 

I  pint  of  shelled  beans. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
I  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  beans  and  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour  or  more.  On  draining  off  the  cold  water,  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Cook  for  one 
hour ;  then  drain  off  nearly  all  the  water  and  add  the  sea- 
sonings.   Serve  hot. 

Dried  Lima  Beans. 

y2  pint  of  beans. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  beans  to  soak  over  night  in  one  quart  of  cold 
water.  Two  hours  before  dinner  time  pour  off  the  water, 
and,  putting  the  beans  in  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  let  them  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and  fifty 
minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  pour  off  the  water,  and 
add  the  salt  and  butter  and  a  gill  of  boiling  water.  Let 
them  stand  in  the  saucepan  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
until  serving  time. 

Dried  Lima  Beans,  No.  2. 

%.  pint  of  beans.  I     I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

pint  of  milk.  |     ]/z  tablespooonful  of  butter. 


190      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Soak  and  cook  the  beans  as  in  the  recipe  just  given ; 
then  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  add  the  seasoning  and  milk, 
having  the  latter  hot.    Simmer  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

Succotash  of  Dried  Lima  Beans  and  Canned  Corn. 

yz  pint  of  dried  Lima  beans.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

y2  can  of  sweet  corn.  I  generous  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

y2  pint  of  milk.  I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  and  then  cook  them  in  one 
quart  of  clear  water  for  an  hour  and  fifty  minutes.  Pour 
off  the  water,  and,  after  adding  the  seasoning,  milk,  and 
corn,  cook  for  three  minutes  after  the  mixture  begins  to 
boil.    Serve  very  hot. 


Prepare  the  same  as  fresh  Lima  beans,  but  cook  for  one 
hour  and  a  half. 


Pick  the  beans  free  from  stones  and  dirt.  Wash  them, 
and  let  them  soak  over  night  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water. 
In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  wash  the  beans  in 
fresh  water ;  then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  them  generously,  and  place  on  the  fire. 

Have  the  pork  mixed  lean  and  fat.  Score  the  rind.  Put 
the  pork  in  the  stewpan  with  the  beans,  and  simmer  until  the 
beans  begin  to  crack  open,  —  not  a  minute  longer.  Drain  all 
the  water  from  them  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  the 
onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot.  Put  about  half  the 
beans  in  the  pot,  then  put  in  the  pork,  having  the  scored 


Shelled  Kidney  Beans. 


Baked  Beans. 


i  pint  of  small  white  beans. 
]/2  pound  of  salt  pork, 
i  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
i  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


i  teaspoonful  of  molasses. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
i  small  onion. 

I  level  tablespoonful  of  salt. 


VEGETABLES. 


191 


side  up.  Next  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  beans.  Mix  the 
mustard,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  molasses  with  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  pour  over  the  beans.  Add  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  the  beans.  Cover  the  pot  and  place 
in  a  slow  oven.  Bake  for  ten  hours  or  more,  adding  boil- 
ing water  whenever  the  beans  look  dry.  The  oven  must 
never  be  hot  enough  to  make  the  water  on  the  beans  bubble, 
and  there  should  never  be  more  water  in  the  pot  than  will 
barely  come  to  the  top  of  the  beans. 

An  earthen  pot  should  be  used  in  baking  beans.  The 
onion  and  molasses  may  be  omitted. 


Green  Peas. 

The  time  of  cooking  green  peas  depends  upon  the  age 
and  the  length  of  time  they  have  been  picked.  If  they  be 
young  and  freshly  picked,  they  will  cook  in  twenty  minutes ; 
but  it  may  take  forty  or  fifty  if  they  have  matured  too  much, 
or  have  been  picked  for  a  day  or  more.  They  should  not 
be  shelled  many  hours  before  they  are  cooked.  Wash  the 
pea  pods  and  drain  them,  then  shell  them.  Put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  and 
cook  until  tender.  They  must  not  boil  rapidly,  and  as 
soon  as  they  begin  to  boil  the  cover  of  the  stewpan  should 
be  drawn  a  little  to  one  side.  Pour  off  a  part  of  the  water, 
and  to  every  pint  of  peas  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Canned  Peas. 


I  can  of  peas. 

1  heaped  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
1  gill  of  hot  water. 


Turn  the  peas  into  a  strainer,  and  pour  cold  water  over 
them  until  they  are  thoroughly  rinsed.  Put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  other  ingreedients,  and  simmer  for  ten 
minutes. 


192      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Asparagus  on  Toast. 


I  bunch  of  asparagus. 
3  slices  of  toast. 


i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  salt. 


Cut  off  the  tough  white  ends  of  a  bunch  of  asparagus. 
Now  cut  the  string  that  ties  the  bundles  together,  and  put 
the  asparagus  in  a  colander.  Let  cold  water  run  on  it  until 
it  is  perfectly  free  from  sand.  Tie  again  in  a  bundle,  and 
put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it.  Cook  gently  for  half  an 
hour.  Toast  three  slices  of  bread,  and  dip  the  edges  in  the 
water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  cooked.  Arrange  these 
on  a  warm  platter,  and  spread  the  asparagus  upon  them. 
Now  season  the  green  part  of  the  vegetable  with  the  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  and  serve. 

The  toast  may  be  buttered  also,  if  one  like  to  have  it 
rich. 

Asparagus  should  be  placed  with  the  cut  end  in  a  little  • 
cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  cook  it. 


I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Cut  up  enough  of  the  tender  ends  of  asparagus  to  make 
one  quart.  Put  these  in  the  colander,  and  let  cold  water 
run  on  them  until  every  particle  of  sand  is  removed.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour ;  then 
drain,  and,  after  putting  in  a  warm  vegetable  dish,  pour  the 
cream  sauce  over  them. 

To  make  the  sauce,  put  the  butter  on  the  fire,  in  a  pan, 
and  when  it  is  melted  add  the  flour.    Stir  until  smooth  and 


Asparagus  with  Cream  Sauce. 


I  quart  of  asparagus. 
3  gills  of  milk. 


Yz  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 


VEGETABLES. 


0 

193 


frothy;  then  gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Season  with  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  up  once. 

If  you  prefer,  the  asparagus  may  be  seasoned  with  salt  and 
butter,  using  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  moistening  with  a  gill  of  the  water  in 
which  it  is  boiled. 

Spinach. 

Yl  peck  of  spinach. 

1  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

I  level  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Pick  over  the  spinach,  removing  all  the  roots  and  brown 
leaves.  Have  two  pans  filled  with  cold  water.  Put  the 
spinach  in  one  pan  and  wash  it,  a  few  leaves  at  a  time, 
dropping  it  into  the  second  pan  of  water.  When  all  is  done, 
turn  the  water  from  the  first  pan,  which  should  at  once  be 
rinsed  and  filled  again  with  clean  water.  Continue  wash- 
ing the  spinach  in  this  way  until  there  is  not  a  grain  of  sand 
left  in  it.  This  you  learn  by  passing  the  hand  over  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan.  Put  the  cleaned  spinach  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  the  salt,  and  cook  for  half  an 
hour.  Turn  into  the  colander  and  cut  with  a  knife.  Put 
into  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and  add  the  butter. 

Greens. 

Greens  of  all  kinds  are  cooked  in  about  the  same  way 
that  spinach  is,  but  they  all  require  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  most  of  them  require  a  much  longer  time 
to  boil. 

A  small  piece  of  salt  pork  or  smoked  bacon,  or  a  shank 
of  ham,  is  often  boiled  in  the  water  for  two  or  more  hours 
before  the  greens  are  put  in  to  cook.  This  meat  is  served 
with  the  greens,  which  require  no  seasoning  except  salt. 

13 


194       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Hashed  Cabbage. 

I  small  head  of  cabbage. 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Take  all  the  green  and  broken  leaves  from  a  small  head 
of  cabbage.  Then  divide  the  cabbage  into  eight  parts,  cut- 
ting from  the  top  down  to  the  stalk.  Wash  it  and  let  it 
stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Put  it  in  a 
large  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  forty-five 
minutes.  The  kettle  must  not  be  covered.  When  the 
cabbage  is  done,  drain,  and  put  in  a  chopping  bowl. 
Mince  rather  fine  and  season  with  the  salt  and  butter. 
If  the  cabbage  be  fresh  from  the  garden,  half  an  hour's 
cooking  will  be  sufficient. 

Creamed  Cabbage. 


?  quart  of  raw  white  cabbage, 
sliced. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


i  teaspoonful  of  flour. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
I  gill  of  milk. 


Let  the  cabbage  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  more  ; 
then  drain  off  the  water  and  put  the  cabbage  in  a  stewpan 
with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Cover,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  At  the  end  of  that  time  pour  off  the  water  and 
put  in  two  quarts  of  fresh  boiling  water.  Cook  rapidly,  with 
the  cover  off,  for  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When 
that  time  has  passed,  put  the  cabbage  in  a  colander  and 
press  out  all  the  water  ;  then  cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife.  Put 
the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  set  on  the  range.  When  it 
becomes  hot,  add  the  cabbage,  as  well  as  the  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  then 
cover,  and  set  back  where  it  will  cook  gently  for  ten 
minutes.  Mix  the  milk  with  the  flour,  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture over  the  cabbage.  Stir  gently,  and  again  cover  the 
pan.    Cook  for  ten  minutes  more  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES. 


195 


Baked  Cabbage. 


1  pint  of   boiled   and  hashed 

cabbage. 

2  ounces  of  salt  pork. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Boil  and  hash  the  cabbage,  as  directed  for  hashed  cab- 
bage. Sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  lightly 
with  a  fork.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  spread  over  it  the 
pork  cut  in  thin  slices.  Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.    Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked. 


Fried  Cabbage. 


I  quart  of  boiled  cabbage. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  beef 
drippings. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

X  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


Boil  the  cabbage  as  for  hashed  cabbage,  and  mince  rather 
fine.  Add  the  seasoning.  Put  the  butter  or  drippings  in  a 
frying-pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  butter  is 
melted,  put  in  the  cabbage  and  cook  one  hour,  stirring 
often,  and  having  the  pan  covered.    Serve  very  hot. 


Squash. 

Pare  the  squash  and  remove  the  seeds  and  the  stringy 
substance  from  the  inside.  Cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
place  in  a  stewpan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it. 
Cook  for  thirty-five  minutes  ;  then  drain  off  the  water,  and 
mash  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  For  a 
pint  of  mashed  squash  use  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.    Serve  very  hot. 

The  squash  may  be  steamed  instead  of  boiled  \  in  which 
case  cook  it  for  fifty  minutes. 


196     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Summer  Squash. 


Get  a  tender  fresh  squash.  If  the  rind  be  very  tender 
do  not  pare  it.  Cut  up  the  squash  and  steam  for  one  hour ; 
then  rub  it  through  a  colander  into  a  saucepan.  Place  the 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  to  each  pint  of  the  strained  squash 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Cook  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 


1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Pare  the  egg  plant  and  cut  it  in  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick.  Season  with  the  salt.  Beat  the  egg  in  a  soup  plate, 
and  dip  a  slice  of  egg  plant  in  it,  covering  every  part  of  it ; 
then  dip  the  slice  in  fine  dry  crumbs.  Continue  this  until 
all  the  egg  plant  is  breaded.  Have  the  frying  fat  three  or 
four  inches  deep,  and  when  it  is  so  hot  that  blue  smoke 
rises  from  the  centre  put  two  slices  of  the  vegetable  in,  and 
cook  for  about  three  minutes.  Take  up  and  drain  on  brown 
paper ;  then  serve. 


Macaroni  varies  as  to  the  time  it  will  take  to  cook.  Half 
an  hour  is  the  usual  time,  but  it  often  requires  forty-five 
minutes.  Break  it  into  pieces  two  or  three  inches  long, 
and  drop  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly 
until  tender,  having  the  saucepan  uncovered.  When  it  has 
been  cooking  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
for  every  two  ounces  of  macaroni.  When  done  turn  it  into 
a  colander  to  drain ;  then  put  it  into  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
half  a  pint  of  sauce  over  it.  The  sauce  may  be  cream, 
Bechamel,  tomato,  or  brown  sauce.  A  little  grated  cheese 
may  be  added  to  the  cream  sauce,  if  that  be  the  kind  used. 
Serve  at  once. 


Fried  Egg  Plant. 


I  small  egg  plant. 
1  egg. 


Dry  crumbs. 
Fat  for  frying. 


Boiled  Macaroni. 


VEGETABLES. 


1 97 


Macaroni  with  Cheese. 

2  ounces  of  macaroni.  1  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

^  pint  of  cream  sauce.  I  1  gill  of  grated  cheese. 

Boil  and  drain  the  macaroni.  Add  the  sauce  to  it,  and 
put  into  an  escalop  dish.  Cover  with  the  cheese,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

Baked  Hominy. 

1  gill  of  fine  breakfast  hominy.       1  egg. 

1  pint  of  boiling  water.  l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

l/2  pint  of  milk.  1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

Wash  the  hominy  in  three  waters,  and  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  water,  into  which  the  salt  should  be  sprinkled.  Boil 
gently  for  one  hour,  having  the  cover  on  the  stewpan,  and 
stirring  often.  Now  add  the  butter,  cold  milk,  and  the  egg, 
well  beaten,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 
Three  gills  of  cold  boiled  hominy  may  be  substituted  for 
the  fresh  article. 

This  is  to  be  served  with  meat  or  eggs  for  breakfast, 
luncheon,  or  dinner. 


Boiled  Rice. 

1  gill  of  rice. 

3  pints  of  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  by  putting  it  in  cold  water  and  rubbing  it 
hard  between  the  hands.  Do  this  three  times.  Drain  off 
all  the  water,  and  put  the  rice  in  a  large  stewpan  with  the 
boiling  water.  Place  it  where  it  will  boil  all  the  time  with 
the  stewpan  uncovered.  When  it  has  been  cooking  for 
fifteen  minutes  add  the  salt ;  but  do  not  stir  it,  for  rice  is 
spoiled  if  stirred  during  the  cooking.  When  it  has  boiled 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  turn  it  into  a  colander  and  drain  off 
all  the  water.    Place  the  colander  on  a  plate,  and  set  it  on 


198      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


the  hearth  or  the  back  part  of  the  range.  Cover  the  rice 
with  a  coarse  towel.  In  this  way  it  can  be  kept  hot  and 
dry  for  a  long  time. 


Baked  Rice. 


y2  pint  of  boiled  rice.  1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

y2  pint  of  milk.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  to  all  the  other  ingredients,  and 
bake  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 


Rice  Croquettes. 


%  pint  of  boiled  rice. 

1  gill  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

The  grated  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon, 

Bread  crumbs. 


Put  the  milk,  rice,  butter,  and  seasoning  on  to  boil. 
Beat  one  egg  till  light,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  mixture. 
Cook  for  one  minute,  stirring  all  the  time.  Turn  the  mix- 
ture out  on  a  plate,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold 
shape  into  small  cylinders.  Beat  the  second  egg  in  a  soup 
plate.  Cover  the  croquettes,  one  at  a  time,  with  the  beaten 
egg,  then  roll  in  dried  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat  for 
one  minute  and  a  half.  Drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Vegetable  Hash. 

1  pint  of  hashed  cabbage.  pint  of  hashed  beets. 

1  pint  of  hashed  potatoes.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corned  beef 

Yz  pint  of  hashed  turnips.  fat. 

When  the  above-named  vegetables,  or  any  other  kinds, 
such  as  parsnips  and  carrots,  are  left  over  from  a  boiled 
dinner,  chop  them  separately  and  rather  coarse.  Season 
them  with  salt  and  pepper,  the  amount  depending  upon 
how  well  the  vegetables  were  seasoned  when  served  hot. 


VEGETABLES. 


1 99 


Mix  them  together.  Put  the  corned  beef  fat  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  set  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  melted  add  the 
vegetables  and  cover  the  pan.  Place  on  a  moderately 
hot  part  of  the  range,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour,  stirring 
frequently  with  a  fork. 

Just  before  serving  draw  the  pan  forward  to  a  hotter  part 
of  the  fire,  and  stir  for  three  minutes.    Serve  very  hot. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
beef  fat. 

Celery. 

Celery  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  but  it  must  not  be 
wrapped  in  wet  paper  or  kept  in  water.  Break  the  blades 
from  the  stalks,  and  scrape  off  any  brown  spots  that  may  be 
found  ;  next  wash  the  celery,  and  let  it  stand  in  ice-water 
for  ten  or  twenty  minutes  to  become  crisp.  Put  it  in  a 
celery  dish  with  some  bits  of  ice,  and  serve  at  once. 

How  to  Keep  Lettuce  Crisp. 

Lettuce  can  be  kept  crisp  and  fresh  for  several  days,  if 
necessary,  by  placing  the  roots  in  water.  Do  not  let  the 
water  come  up  as  high  as  the  leaves.  When  ready  to  serve 
the  lettuce,  wash  it  leaf  by  leaf  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and 
drop  it  into  another  pan  of  ice-water.  It  will  become  crisp 
in  a  few  minutes.  Shake  the  water  from  the  leaves  before 
serving. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

THE  white  and  yolk  should  be  equally  well  cooked  in 
a  boiled  egg,  the  white  being  soft  and  creamy.  Put 
the  eggs  in  a  deep  saucepan,  and  pour  over  them  a  gener- 
ous amount  of  boiling  water,  —  one  quart  or  more  of  water 
for  four  eggs.  Cover  the  saucepan,  and  set  on  a  part  of 
the  range  where  it  is  so  cool  that  the  hand  can  rest  on  it 
comfortably.  At  the  end  of  ten  minutes  the  eggs  will  be 
cooked  to  a  soft  creamy  consistency.  If  the  eggs  be  liked 
medium  well  done,  cook  for  five  minutes  longer ;  if  to  be 
hard,  they  may  remain  in  the  water  for  twenty  minutes. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Put  in  a  frying-pan  boiling  water  to  the  depth  of  two  or 
three  inches.  To  each  pint  of  water  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  Have  the  water  just 
bubbling  at  one  side  of  the  pan.  Break  an  egg  close  to 
the  pan,  and  drop  it  gently  into  the  water.  Continue  put- 
ting in  eggs  until  you  have  the  required  number.  When 
the  white  of  the  egg  is  set,  slide  a  cake-turner  under  the 
egg,  and  lift  it  from  the  water.  Slide  it  upon  a  slice  of 
buttered  toast. 

In  most  parts  of  New  England  eggs  cooked  in  this  way 
are  called  dropped. 

Muffin  rings  may  be  placed  in  the  pan  of  water,  and 
the  eggs  be  dropped  into  them.   This  gives  a  better  shape. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


20 1 


There  are  several  inventions  in  the  market  by  the  use  of 
which  eggs  can  be  poached  easily  and  successfully. 

Pried  Eggs. 

These  are  usually  served  with  ham,  but  they  may  be 
served  separately.  Put  into  a  pan  any  kind  of  clean 
sweet  fat ;  ham  or  bacon  fat  is  generally  considered  as  the 
best.  Have  the  fat  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  in  the 
pan.  Break  the  eggs  separately,  and  slide  them  gently,  one 
at  a  time,  into  the  hot  fat.  With  a  long  spoon  dip  up  the 
fat  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  As  soon  as  the  whites  are  set, 
slide  a  cake-turner  under  the  eggs  and  place  them  on  a 
warm  dish.  They  may  be  arranged  on  slices  of  ham,  or 
the  ham  may  be  put  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  the  eggs 
arranged  around  it. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

4  eggs. 

I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
ye  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  a  spoon.  Add  the  salt.  Put  the 
butter  on  the  fire,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  stir  in  the 
eggs.  Continue  stirring  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set  In- 
stantly turn  them  into  a  warm  dish  and  serve. 


Eggs  au  Gratin. 


4  eggs. 

Yl  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 
I  teaspoonful  of  Parmesan  cheese. 


teaspoonful  of  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
3  generous  teaspoonfuls  of  butter. 


Mix  the  salt,  pepper,  cheese,  and  butter  with  the  crumbs. 
Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  then  add  the  yolk 
and  beat  for  a  moment  longer.  Stir  this  egg  mixture  into 
the  other  ingredients. 


202        MISS  PARLOATS  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Butter  a  gratin  dish  —  or  a  small  pie  plate  will  do  —  and 
make  little  nests  in  it  with  the  preparation.  Cook  in  rather 
a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Take 
from  the  oven,  and  then  break  a  fresh 
egg  into  each  nest.  Return  to  the 
oven  and  cook  for  three  minutes 
longer.  If  there  be  objection  to  cheese, 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  may  be  substituted  for  it. 

Baked  Eggs. 

Butter  a  gratin  dish,  or  a  deep  pie  plate,  and  break  the 
required  number  of  eggs  into  it.  Put  the  plate  in  a  moder- 
ate oven,  and  cook  until  the  white  is  set.  It  will  take  from 
five  to  eight  minutes  to  bake  the  eggs. 

Pretty  round  and  oval  dishes  come  for  this  purpose. 
They  are  made  of  French  china,  and  are  fireproof. 


Breaded  Eggs. 


5  eggs. 

pint  of  dried  bread  crumbs. 
I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

Fat  for  frying. 

]/2  pint  of  bisque  sauce. 


Boil  four  of  the  eggs  for  ten  minutes.  Drop  them  into 
cold  water  and  remove  the  shells.  Cut  the  eggs  in  halves, 
lengthwise,  and  season  them  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Beat  the  uncooked  egg  in  a  soup  plate.  Dip  the  halves  of 
eggs  in  this,  and  then  roll  in  the  bread  crumbs.  At  serving 
time  put  the  breaded  eggs  in  the  frying  basket,  and  plunge 
into  hot  fat.  Cook  for  about  two  minutes  ;  then  drain,  and 
serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  bisque  sauce  poured  around 
them. 

Creamed  Eggs. 


4  slices  of  toast. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
3  gills  of  milk. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


203 


Cut  the  eggs  into  thin  slices.  Cut  the  slices  of  toast  in 
halves,  and  lay  them  in  a  warm  platter.  Put  the  butter  on 
the  fire,  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  becomes  hot  add 
the  flour.  Stir  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy. 
Gradually  add  the  cold  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
this  boils  up,  add  the  salt  and  pepper. 

Mix  the  eggs  with  the  sauce  and  spread  on  the  toast. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  six  minutes  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

Egg  Cutlets. 

5  eggs.  %  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Crumbs  for  breading. 
j£  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Fat  for  frying. 

Put  four  of  the  eggs  in  a  deep  saucepan,  and  fill  up  with 
boiling  water.  Cover,  and  let  them  stand  on  the  hearth  or 
the  coolest  part  of  the  range  for  twenty  minutes.  At  the 
end  of  this  time  pour  off  the  hot  water  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut  the  eggs  in  two,  length- 
wise, using  a  plated  knife. 

Let  a  soup  plate  stand  in  hot  water  until  heated  through. 
Put  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  in  this  plate,  and  stir  until 
the  butter  is  melted.  Beat  the  fifth  egg  in  another  soup 
plate,  and  have  a  third  plate  filled  with  dry  and  sifted 
bread  crumbs.  Drop  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  in  the  melted 
butter,  then  in  the  beaten  egg,  and  finally  roll  them  in  the 
crumbs.  Lay  them  on  a  platter  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
until  it  is  time  to  cook  them;  then  put  them  in  the  frying 
basket  and  cook  in  hot  fat  for  one  minute.  Serve  with  a 
bisque  or  curry  sauce. 

This  dish  is  suitable  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

Plain  Omelet. 

2  eggs.  I     1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt.               I     1  heaped  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

Beat  the  egg  enough  to  break  it  well,  but  not  to  make  it 
light.    Have  the  omelet  pan  warmed,  and  put  the  butter  in 


204        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


it.  Place  over  a  very  hot  fire.  As  soon  as  the  butter  be- 
comes so  hot  that  it  turns  slightly  brown,  pour  the  eggs  into 
the  pan.  With  the  left  hand  lift  the  pan  a  little  at  the  han- 
dle side,  tipping  it  forward  slightly,  so  that  the  liquid  egg 
shall  flow  to  the  other  side.    As  soon  as  the  egg  begins  to 


ROLLING  AN  OMELET. 


set,  draw  it  up  to  the  raised  side  of  the  pan.  While  the  egg 
is  yet  quite  soft,  begin  to  roll  the  omelet.  Begin  at  the  left 
hand,  and  turn  over  in  small  folds  until  the  lower  part  of  the 
pan  is  reached.  Let  the  omelet  rest  a  few  seconds,  and  then 
turn  out  on  a  hot  dish. 

The  work  of  making  an  omelet  is  very  simple,  but  there 
must  be  intense  heat,  and  the  work  of  folding  and  removing 


THE  OMELET  WHEN  FINISHED. 

from  the  pan  must  be  done  rapidly.  Practice  is  essential 
to  perfect  omelet  making.     The  great  mistake  which  be- 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


205 


ginners  usually  make  is,  that  they  work  too  slowly,  and 
cook  the  omelet  too  much.  It  should  be  a  soft,  creamy 
mass  when  done. 

One  can  make  a  great  variety  of  omelets  by  adding  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  any  kind  of  delicate  meat,  fish,  or  vegetable, 
hashed  fine  and  heated  in  a  sauce.  Spread  the  heated 
mixture  on  the  omelet  before  you  begin  to  fold  it. 


Baked  Omelet. 

3  eggs.  \x/2  gills  of  milk. 

1  heaped  tablespoonful  of  corn   1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

starch.  1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Heat  one  gill  of  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point.  Mix  the 
corn  starch  with  the  half-gill  of  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Cook  for  one  minute,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Add  the  salt  and  butter,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately ;  then  stir  them 
into  the  cooked  ingredients.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  twelve  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 


Bread  Omelet. 


2  ounces  of  stale  bread  (one  large 

slice). 
1  gill  of  boiling  water. 
I  gill  of  cold  milk. 


1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Have  the  bread  free  from  crust.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
over  it.  When  soft,  add  the  salt  and  milk,  and  break  up 
writh  a  spoon.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  sep- 
arately, and  stir  into  the  bread  mixture.  Put  the  butter  in 
a  frying-pan  of  good  size,  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot, 
turn  in  the  omelet,  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  set ;  drawing 
it  back  a  little,  as  you  would  a  plain  omelet.  Fold,  and 
brown  slightly.    Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once. 


206     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Welsh  Rare-bit. 


x/i  pint  of  soft  mild  cheese. 
]/2  gill  of  milk. 
I  egg. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 
A  grain  of  cayenne. 
3  slices  of  toast. 


^  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Break  the  cheese  into  small  bits.  Beat  the  egg,  and  add 
the  other  ingredients  to  it.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  small 
saucepan,  which  place  in  another  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  becomes  a  smooth,  creamy 
mass.  Immediately  spread  this  on  the  hot  toast,  and  serve. 
The  rare-bit  can  be  made  on  the  table  in  the  chafing  dish. 


Melt  the  butter  in  the  water ;  then  stir  the  crackers  into 
the  mixture,  that  they  may  all  get  a  slight  coating  of  butter 
and  water.  Spread  them  in  a  shallow  pan  and  put  in  a  hot 
oven  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  They  should  be  brown 
and  glossy  at  the  end  of  that  time.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish 
with  oyster  soup  or  oyster  stew. 


Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  into  half-inch  squares.  Put  into 
a  small  frying-pan  or  granite-ware  saucepan  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lard,  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  the  lard  is  so  hot 
that  it  smokes  all  over,  put  in  one  square  of  the  bread.  If 
this  becomes  browned  in  one  minute  and  a  half,  the  lard  is 
hot  enough ;  if  it  is  not  hot  enough,  make  another  test 
very  soon.  Now  put  in  the  rest  of  the  squares  of  bread,  — 
there  should  be  about  half  a  pint.  Fry  until  brown,  which 
will  be  in  about  a  minute  and  a  half.    While  the  bread  is 


Roasted  Oyster  Crackers. 


I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
I  gill  of  boiling  water. 
3  gills  of  oyster  crackers. 


Fried  Bread. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


207 


frying,  stir  it  with  a  fork,  in  order  that  all  parts  may  be 
equally  browned.  Take  from  the  fat  with  a  skimmer  and 
drain  on  brown  paper.  When  the  fat  has  become  slightly 
cooled,  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  it  will 
be  ready  to  use  again. 

This  bread  is  to  serve  with  tomato,  pea,  and  other  soups. 

Maple  Syrup  from  Sugar. 

Break  up  a  pound  of  maple  sugar  and  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  pitcher,  and  when  cold,  cover,  and  put  in  a 
cool  place.  It  is  well  to  buy  maple  sugar  in  the  spring  and 
keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  use  in  making  syrup  until 
the  fresh  syrup  comes  the  next  year. 

Batter  for  Fruit  Fritters. 


1  gill  of  flour. 
y2  gill  of  milk. 
1  egg- 


l4  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
]/2  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 


Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  the  milk,  and 
beat  the  batter  until  light  and  smooth.  Add  the  butter, 
and  beat  again.  Finally  add  the  egg,  well  beaten.  This 
batter  will  answer  for  any  kind  of  fruit. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Core  and  pare  large  tart  apples.  Cut  them  in  slices 
about  one  third  of  an  inch  thick.  Season  the  slices  with 
nutmeg,  then  dip  them  in  the  batter.  Lift  them,  one  by 
one,  from  the  batter  and  drop  gently  into  hot  fat.  Cook 
for  three  minutes  ;  then  lift  from  the  fat,  drain,  and  serve 
immediately.  Powdered  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  on  the 
fritters  when  they  are  arranged  on  the  dish. 

Peaches,  bananas,  oranges,  grapes,  pears,  etc.,  may  be 
cooked  in  the  form  of  fritters. 


208       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Milk  Toast. 


i  pint  of  milk. 

I  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt 
5  slices  of  toasted  bread. 


I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Mix  the  flour  with  one  gill  of  cold  milk.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the 
fire.  When  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  flour  mixture,  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes.  Toast  the  bread  till  it  is  nicely 
and  evenly  browned.  Stir  the  salt  and  butter  into  the 
cooking  mixture  ;  then  dip  the  slices  of  toast  in  it.  Lay 
the  toast  in  a  deep  warm  dish  and  pour  the  remainder  of 
the  cream  over  it.    Cover  the  dish  and  serve. 

Indian,  brown,  or  graham  bread  may  be  used  for  this 
toast. 


For  this  toast  use  a  flat  dish,  such  as  comes  for  baking 
eggs,  or  a  meat  platter  of  stone  china.  Toast  the  bread 
and  spread  it,  one  slice  deep,  in  the  platter.  Cover  it  with 
cold  milk,  and  put  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  When  the 
milk  is  boiling  hot,  add  bits  of  butter,  and  let  the  toast 
cook  for  one  minute  longer.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  cooked.  If  salt  be  liked,  sprinkle  a  little  on  the  toast 
before  the  milk  is  added. 

Allow  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  to 
five  slices  of  toast. 

If  cream  be  plentiful,  use  that,  and  omit  the  butter. 


Toast  stale  bread  till  nicely  browned.  Dip  it  quickly 
into  hot  salted  water,  spread  it  with  soft  butter,  and  serve. 

The  butter  must  be  only  soft  enough  to  spread  easily. 
It  will  spoil  it  to  melt  it. 

Use  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 


Baked  Toast. 


Soft  Butter  Toast. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


209 


Cracker  Cream  Toast. 

Toast  crackers  and  drop  them  into  a  cream,  made  as  for 
milk  toast.  Let  them  soak  in  this  for  ten  minutes ;  then 
dish  and  serve. 

The  crackers  will  be  more  delicate  if  they  be  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  toasted  as  for  butter  toast  before  being  put 
in  the  cream. 

Cracker  Butter  Toast. 

Split  Boston  butter  crackers  and  soak  them  in  cold  water 
until  they  begin  to  swell.  Remove  them  from  the  water 
and  drain  on  a  plate.  Arrange  in  the  double-broiler  and 
toast  brown  on  both  sides.  Butter,  and  serve  at  once  on 
a  hot  dish. 

Mush. 

Time  was  when  the  housekeeper  was  limited  to  three  or 
four  kinds  of  material  for  mush ;  but  that  is  all  changed, 
and  the  market  is  filled  with  many  different  preparations  of 
wheat,  oats,  corn,  etc.  Each  new  article  is  pronounced  by 
its  makers  to  be  the  best.  One  of  the  principal  recommen- 
dations which  each  manufacturer  claims  for  his  product  is 
that  it  can  be  cooked  in  a  short  time.  Many  good  articles 
that  are  prepared  for  the  table  by  the  printed  directions  on 
the  package,  calling  for  about  ten  minutes'  cooking,  are  dis- 
carded because  of  unsatisfactory  results,  whereas  if  the  cook- 
ing were  continued  for  half  an  hour  or  more  the  dish  would 
be  delicious.  It  must  be  remembered  that  all  cereals  re- 
quire thorough  cooking,  because  of  the  starch  in  them.  No 
matter  what  the  cereal  product  may  be,  it  should  be  cooked 
not  less  than  half  an  hour. 

Be  sure  to  have  the  full  quantity  of  water  called  for  in  the 
receipt,  and  to  have  it  boiling  when  the  meal  is  stirred  into 
it.    When  dry  meal  is  to  be  sprinkled  into  boiling  water, 

14 


2IO       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


stir  the  water  briskly  for  a  few  moments  before  adding  the 
meal,  and  stir  constantly  while  the  meal  is  being  sprinkled 
in.  Rules  can  be  given  here  for  only  a  few  kinds  of 
cereals,  but  these  rules  can  be  followed  in  cooking  almost 
any  one  of  the  breakfast  cereals. 

Oatmeal  Mush. 

I  gill  of  oatmeal. 

i  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  boiling  water;  then  sprinkle  in  the  oatmeal, 
stirring  all  the  time.  After  adding  the  salt,  cover  the  stew- 
pan,  and  set  back  where  the  contents  wall  cook  gently  for 
half  an  hour  or  longer.  Do  not  stir  the  mush  after  the  first 
five  minutes. 

Corn  Meal  Mush. 

I  gill  of  yellow  corn  meal. 

i  generous  pint  of  boiling  water. 

]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  meal  in  a  stewpan  and  gradually  pour  the  boil- 
ing water  upon  it,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  salt,  and 
put  the  stewpan  where  the  mush  will  cook  gently  for  an 
hour  or  more.  Stir  frequently,  and  keep  the  stewpan 
covered. 

Fried  Mush. 

y2  pint  of  corn  meal.  I     i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flout  |     i  quart  of  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  well  in  a  stewpan  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  on  them,  stirring  all  the  time.  Beat  vigorously 
and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours,  keeping  the  stewpan  cov- 
ered.   At  the  end  of  that  time  dip  a  small  bread-pan  in 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


211 


cold  water,  and  pour  the  mush  into  it,  packing  smoothly. 
Set  away  to  cool. 

In  the  morning  turn  the  mush  out  on  a  board  and  cut 
in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Roll  these  in  dry  flour 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown.  Drain  on  sheets  of  brown 
paper,  and  serve  very  hot. 


Wash  the  hominy  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  water.  Add  the  salt.  Cover  the  stewpan,  and  set 
where  the  hominy  will  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour  or  more. 
Stir  frequently.  Use  the  fine  breakfast  hominy.  This  mush 
may  be  served  with  sugar  and  milk,  or  as  a  vegetable,  with 
meat. 


Cook  the  hominy  as  directed  in  the  rule  for  boiled 
hominy.  Wet  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  hot  hominy  into 
it.  When  cold,  cut  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Roll 
the  sliced  hominy  in  flour. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  drippings  in  the  frying- 
pan  and  place  on  the  fire.  When  the  fat  is  hot,  lay  in  the 
slices  of  hominy.  Cover  the  pan,  and  cook  until  brown  on 
one  side  ;  then  turn,  and  brown  on  the  other.  It  will  take 
about  twenty  minutes'  time  to  brown  the  hominy.  Serve 
very  hot.    Bacon  or  ham  fat  is  the  best  for  this  dish. 


Boiled  Hominy. 


I  gill  of  hominy, 
i  pint  of  boiling  water, 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Fried  Hominy. 


Hominy  Cakes. 


x/z  a  pint  of  cold  hominy. 


's  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
I  tabluspoonful  of  drippings. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


212        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 

Beat  the  hominy  well  with  a  fork,  and  add  the  seasonings 
and  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Shape  with  the  hands  into  small, 
flat  cakes,  and,  after  sprinkling  these  lightly  with  flour,  fry 
them  until  brown  on  one  side,  and  then  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other  side.  Beef,  pork,  ham,  bacon,  or  sausage  fat  may 
be  used  for  frying.  Do  not  use  more  than  the  table- 
spoonful. 

These  cakes  are  good  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  or  tea. 

Fruit  Sauces. 

All  kinds  of  fruit  may  be  used  for  sauces.  The  juicy 
fruits  will  require  but  little  water,  whereas  the  dry  ones  will 
need  a  great  deal.  The  amount  of  sugar  used  in  these 
fruit  sauces  depends  upon  the  acidity  of  the  fruit  and  the 
taste  of  the  family.  If  the  fruit  is  to  be  kept  whole,  add 
the  sugar  when  the  fruit  is  put  on  to  stew,  and  cook  slowly. 

Never  cook  fruit  in  tin. 

Fruit  sauces  that  are  to  be  served  with  meats  should  have 
very  little  sugar  added  to  them. 

Baked  Sweet  Apples. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  apples.  Put  them  in  a  deep  earthen 
dish,  with  water  enough  to  come  up  about  an  inch.  Sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  apples  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two 
hours.  Baste  them  twice  with  the  water  in  the  dish.  Six 
apples  will  require  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  scant 
half-pint  of  water. 

Baked  Sour  Apples. 

Wash,  wipe,  and  core  six  large  apples,  and  place  them  in 
a  deep  earthen  dish.  Fill  the  holes  with  sugar,  and  sprinkle 
two  extra  tablespoonfuls  over  the  apples.  Pour  a  gill  of 
hot  water  into  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
until  tender.  It  will  take  about  an  hour's  time  to  cook 
them. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


213 


Broiled  Apples. 

Pare,  core,  and  cut  tart  apples  in  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick.  Dip  the  slices  into  melted  butter,  and  broil  them 
over  rather  a  bright  fire.  When  soft,  put  them  on  a  warm 
dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.    Serve  at  once. 

Fried  Apples. 

1  quart  of  tart  apples. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings. 
1  tablepoonful  of  sugar. 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples.  Put  the  drippings  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  add  the  apples.  Cover 
the  pan  and  cook  until  the  apples  are  tender,  turning  them 
often.    Add  the  sugar,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 

These  are  particularly  good  when  served  hot  with  fresh 
pork. 

Green  Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  some  tart  apples  and  put  them 
in  a  granite-ware  or  porcelain  stewpan.  Nearly  cover 
them  with  water  \  then  cover  the  stewpan  and  place  on 
the  fire.  Cook  until  the  apples  are  tender,  and  season 
with  sugar.  The  exact  time  of  cooking  and  the  amount 
of  sugar  cannot  be  stated  for  any  given  measure  of  apples, 
because  some  apples  cook  so  much  more  quickly  than 
others,  and  some  require  more  sugar. 

Should  you  wish  to  have  the  pieces  of  apple  kept  whole 
in  the  cooking,  add  the  sugar  when  the  fruit  is  put  on 
to  stew,  and  cook  slowly.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  apple 
be  liked  all  broken  up  and  of  light  color,  boil  rapidly,  and 
sweeten  after  the  fruit  is  stewed. 

Evaporated  Apple  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  evaporated  apples. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

About  one  quart  of  water. 


214     Miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Wash  the  apples  and  let  them  soak  over  night  in  the 
quart  of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  put  the  apples  and 
water  in  a  granite -ware  or  porcelain  stewpan;  cover,  and 
place  on  rather  a  cool  part  of  the  range.  Cook  gently 
for  one  hour ;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  for  half  an 
hour  longer.  There  should  be  water  enough  to  cover  the 
apples  generously  when  they  are  put  on  to  stew.  Do  not 
stir  this  sauce.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  added  if 
you  choose. 

Evaporated  Peaches. 
Cook  this  fruit  the  same  as  the  evaporated  apples. 

Evaporated  Apricots. 
This  fruit  is  to  be  cooked  the  same  as  evaporated  apples. 

Baked  Pears. 

9  pears. 

I  gill  of  sugar. 

I  pint  of  water. 

Wash  the  pears  and  put  them,  with  the  water  and  sugar,  in 
a  deep  earthen  dish.  Cover  the  dish  and  bake  the  pears 
in  a  slow  oven  for  three  hours. 

Stewed  Prunes. 

Put  the  prunes  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Wash  them 
one  by  one  by  rubbing  them  between  the  hands,  and 
drop  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Wash  them  in  this 
second  water  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan.  To  half  a 
pound  of  prunes  add  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Place 
the  stewpan  on  the  range  and  cook  the  prunes  slowly 
for  two  hours  or  more.  When  done,  they  will  be  plump 
and  tender.  Turn  them  into  a  bowl  and  put  in  a  cool 
place. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


2I5 


Cranberry  Sauce. 

I  pint  of  cranberries. 

Yz  pint  of  granulated  sugar. 

%  pint  of  water. 


Pick  over  the  cranberries.  Wash  them,  and  put  in  a 
granite-ware  or  porcelain  stewpan ;  then  add  the  water 
and  the  sugar.  Cook  the  sauce  rapidly  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes ;  then  turn  into  a  bowl  and  set  away  to  harden. 
This  gives  a  sauce  that  will  jelly.  If  liked  softer,  use  a 
little  more  water. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

Make  the  same  as  cranberry  sauce,  but  cook  five  minutes 
longer  ;  then  rub  through  a  strainer  fine  enough  to  keep 
back  the  seeds. 

Rhubarb  Sauce. 

Rhubarb  may  be  stewed  or  baked.  Pare  and  wash  the 
stalks  and  cut  them  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long  ;  then  put 
in  a  granite-ware  stewpan.  To  a  quart  of  the  rhubarb  add 
one  gill  of  sugar  and  one  gill  of  water,  and  stew  gently 
until  done ;  then  turn  into  an  earthen  bowl.  Another 
way  is  to  put  the  rhubarb,  water,  and  sugar  in  an  earthen 
dish,  cover  the  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

If  the  sauce  be  liked  sweet  more  sugar  may  be  used. 


Dumplings. 


x/i  pi»t  of  unsifted  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


x/£  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
}j  cupful  of  milk. 


Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Wet 
with  the  milk,  and  stir  quickly  into  the  form  of  a  smooth  ball. 
Sprinkle  the  bread  board  with  flour  and  roll  the  dough  into 


2l6       MISS  PARLORS  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 

a  sheet  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  which  should 
then  be  cut  into  small  cakes.  If  the  dumplings  are  to  be 
cooked  with  the  stew,  set  the  stewpan  where  the  contents 
will  cook  rapidly,  and  arrange  the  dumplings  on  top  of  the 
stew.  Cover  the  pan,  and  cook  for  exactly  ten  minutes. 
If  they  are  to  be  steamed,  place  them  on  a  plate  in  the 
steamer  and  cook  for  twelve  minutes. 


CHAPTER  XV. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 

PERFECT  bread  will  be  light  and  sweet,  and  with  a  rich, 
nutty  flavor  of  the  wheat.  To  get  this  result  good  yeast 
and  flour  must  be  used  ;  the  dough,  while  rising,  must  be 
kept  at  a  proper  temperature,  about  75 °  F.,  and  the  heat 
of  the  oven,  when  baking  the  dough,  must  be  high  enough 
to  raise  the  inside  of  the  loaf  to  about  2200  F.  This  is 
necessary  to  cook  the  starch,  expand  the  carbonic  acid  gas, 
air,  and  steam,  and  drive  off  the  alcohol. 

A  good  way  to  test  the  heat  is  to  put  in  a  piece  of  white 
paper.  If  it  turn  a  dark  brown  in  five  minutes,  the  oven 
will  be  of  the  right  temperature  ;  but  if  it  burn,  the  oven  will 
be  too  hot,  and  must  be  cooled  a  little  before  the  loaf  is  put 
in  ;  or  if  the  paper  be  only  a  light  brown  at  the  end  of  the 
five  minutes,  the  oven  must  be  made  hotter. 

When  the  bread  is  baked  it  should  be  cooled  in  such  a 
way  that  the  pure  air  shall  circulate  freely  around  it.  The 
best  way  is  to  put  the  loaf  across  the  pan,  or  to  let  it  lean 
against  the  pan,  having  it  rest  on  its  edge.  In  this  way  the 
gases,  alcohol,  and  steam  pass  off,  making  the  loaf  much 
sweeter  and  crisper  than  when  it  is  wrapped  in  a  cloth. 
The  loaf  should  be  perfectly  cold  before  being  put  in  the 
bread  box. 

When  you  are  baking  bread  the  heat  should  be  greatest 
when  the  loaf  is  first  put  in  the  oven ;  then,  after  cooking 
for  twenty- five  minutes,  the  heat  should  be  reduced  a  little. 
White  bread  made  with  water  should  get  the  greater  part  of 
its  browning  the  first  half-hour.    If  made  with  milk  it  will 


218     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


brown  in  twenty  minutes ;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that 
being  brown  does  not  mean  that  the  bread  is  baked. 

A  piece  of  woollen  blanket  is  of  great  value  in  making 
bread.  Wrap  it  around  the  bowl  in  which  the  dough  is 
rising,  and  it  will  keep  the  temperature  even.  Nothing  is 
more  injurious  than  chilling  the  dough  before  it  is  risen. 
It  does  not  hurt  it  after  it  is  well  risen. 

Bread  can  be  made  with  either  milk  or  water ;  simply 
substitute  milk  where  water  is  called  for.  The  milk  should 
first  be  boiled  and  cooled. 

Hop  Yeast. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  hops  in  one  quart  of  cold  water 
and  place  on  the  fire.  Now  pare  and  grate  into  a  tin  pan 
three  large  uncooked  potatoes.  When  the  hops  and  water 
begin  to  boil,  strain  the  boiling  water  on  the  grated  pota- 
toes. Place  the  pan  with  the  potatoes  and  hop-water  on 
the  stove,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  boils  up.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  two  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Let  this  mixture  stand  until  it  is  blood  warm ; 
then  add  half  a  cupful  of  liquid  yeast,  or  half  a  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  dissolved  in  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  water. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  large  earthen  bowl  which  has  been 
thoroughly  heated.  Cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  six 
hours.  In  that  time  the  yeast  should  be  so  well  risen  that 
it  is  foamy  all  through.  Now  pour  this  into  a  stone  jar,  or 
into  two  preserve  jars  (the  jars  should  be  not  more  than 
half  full) ,  and  put  in  a  cold  place,  but  not  where  the  yeast 
will  freeze.  This  yeast  will  keep  three  or  four  weeks. 
Made  in  this  way  it  is  called  liquid  yeast. 

Liquid,  compressed,  or  dry  yeast,  if  sweet  and  good, 
will  all  make  excellent  bread.  In  very  hot  countries  the 
dry  yeast  is  by  far  the  best,  unless  one  have  an  ice  chest  to 
keep  the  liquid  yeast  in.  As  the  method  of  making  bread 
with  the  dry  yeast  is  different  from  that  of  making  with 
liquid  yeast,  a  separate  rule  may  be  valuable. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


219 


Bread  Made  with  Dry  Yeast. 

For  tJiree  Loaves. 

2  quarts  of  flour.  1  yeast  cake. 

1%  pints  (2%  cupfuls)  of  blood-  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

warm  water.  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  lard. 

For  three  small  loaves  there  will  be  required  two  quarts 
of  flour,  one  pint  and  a  gill  of  blood-warm  water,  one  yeast 
cake,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  or  lard,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  the  flour  in  the  bread  pan.  Break  up  the  yeast  cake 
and  put  it  in  a  quart  bowl ;  then  add  a  gill  of  the  water, 
and  mash  with  a  spoon  until  the  yeast  and  water  are  well 
mixed.  Beat  in  one  gill  of  the  flour.  Cover  the  bowl  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
the  batter  should  be  a  perfect  sponge.  Add  to  the  sponge 
the  pint  of  warm  water,  half  the  butter  or  lard,  and  the  salt 
and  sugar.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  flour  and  mix  well 
-with  a  spoon.  Sprinkle  the  moulding  board  thickly  with 
flour,  and,  turning  the  dough  upon  it,  knead  for  twenty 
minutes,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  At  the  end  of 
this  time  the  ball  of  dough  should  be  soft,  smooth,  and 
elastic.  Place  the  dough  in  the  bowl  and  rub  the  second 
spoonful  of  butter  or  lard  over  it.  Cover  with  a  clean  towel 
and  then  with  a  tin  or  wood  cover.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  warm 
place  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  the  dough 
will  have  increased  to  three  times  its  original  volume,  and 
will  be  a  perfect  sponge.  Knead  it  in  the  bowl  for  five 
minutes  —  do  not  use  flour — and  then  shape  into  three 
small  loaves.  Put  these  in  deep  pans,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  lengthwise  through  the  centre  of  each  loaf.  Put 
the  pans  in  a  warm  place  and  cover  with  clean  towels.  Let 
the  loaves  rise  to  twice  their  size,  and  then  bake  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven  for  fifty  minutes. 


220       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Water  Bread. 

i  quart  of  flour.  %  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  of 
%  pint  of  water, — generous  meas-         y2  gill  of  liquid  yeast. 

ure.  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard.  I  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Sift  the  flour  into  the  bread  bowl.  Take  out  half  a  cup- 
ful to  use  in  kneading.  Put  the  salt,  sugar,  and  half  the 
butter  in  the  flour.  Dissolve  the  yeast  and  mix  with  the 
flour.    Beat  well  with  a  strong  spoon. 

Sprinkle  flour  on  the  board  and  knead  the  dough  for 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  Return  to  the  bowl,  and 
rub  the  remainder  of  the  butter  or  lard  over  it.  Cover 
with  a  clean  towel ;  then  put  a  tin  or  wooden  cover  on  the 
bowl  and  raise  and  finish  as  directed  in  the  rule  for  bread 
made  with  dry  yeast.  This  will  make  two  small  loaves  or 
one  large  one. 

Potato  Bread. 

I  quart  of  flour.  i  potato. 

y2  pint  of  boiling  water,  generous  yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

measure.  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

y  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard. 

l/2  gill  of  liquid  yeast. 

Cover  the  potato  with  boiling  water  and  cook  for  thirty 
minutes.  Take  it  up  and  mash  fine  and  light  \  then  pour  the 
boiling  water  on  it.  Let  this  stand  until  it  is  blood-warm  ; 
then  beat  into  it  the  yeast,  sugar,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
flour.  Beat  well  for  ten  minutes ;  then  cover  the  dough 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  It  will  take  between 
four  and  five  hours.  When  the  dough  has  risen  to  a  light 
sponge,  add  the  salt  and  butter  or  lard  to  it,  and  beat  well. 

Sprinkle  the  board  with  flour,  turn  the  dough  out  on  it 
and  knead  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Return  the  dough 
to  the  bowl  \  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
it  has  risen  to  more  than  double  the  original  size,  shape  it 
into  two  small  loaves,  or  a  loaf  of  medium  size  and  a  small 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


221 


pan  of  rolls.  Cover  the  bread  with  a  clean  towel  and  raise 
to  double  the  original  size. 

If  all  the  dough  be  put  into  one  loaf,  it  must  be  baked 
for  one  hour ;  if  two  small  loaves  be  made,  bake  them  for 
forty-five  minutes.  This  is  delicious  bread.  Milk  may  be 
substituted  for  water. 


Entire-wheat  Bread. 


3  gills  of  water. 

3  pints  of  entire  wheat  flour. 

x/l  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 


tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard. 
Y  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or 
cupful  of  liquid  yeast. 


Sift  the  flour  into  the  mixing  bowl,  but  take  out  a  gill  to 
use  in  kneading.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  water.  Mix  the 
salt,  sugar,  and  butter  with  the  flour,  and  stir  in  the  yeast 
and  water.  Beat  well ;  then  knead  for  twenty  minutes  or 
half  an  hour.  Cover,  and  set  to  rise.  Finish  the  same  as 
water  bread. 

This  bread  must  be  mixed  as  soft  as  possible  and  should 
be  baked  thoroughly.  Bake  a  loaf  of  medium  size  one 
hour  and  a  quarter. 


Graham  Bread. 


I  pint  of  graham  meal. 
I  pint  of  white  flour. 
3  gills  of  water,  generous  meas- 
ure. 


%  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or 

%  cup  of  liquid  yeast, 
i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
]/2  gill  of  molasses. 


Sift  the  meal  and  flour  into  the  mixing  bowl,  turning  in 
the  bran  also.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  water,  and  add 
the  salt  and  molasses  to  it.  Turn  this  mixture  out  on  the 
flour,  and  beat  the  dough  vigorously  for  twenty  minutes  or 
longer.  Cover  the  bowl  and  let  the  dough  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  wet  the  hand  in  cold  water  and  beat  the 
dough  for  five  or  ten  minutes ;  then  shape,  and  put  in  a 
well  buttered  pan.    Let  it  rise  to  nearly  double  the  original 


222        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


size,  and  bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  having  the  oven  quite 
hot  the  first  half-hour,  and  very  moderate  the  last  hour. 

Success  in  making  this  bread  depends  upon  the  thorough 
beating  and  baking.  Flours  vary  so  much  that  it  is  impos- 
sible to  give  the  exact  amount  of  liquid,  but  the  dough 
should  be  as  thick  as  you  can  mix  and  beat  it  with  the 
hand.  It  must,  however,  never  be  kneaded  stiff,  like  bread 
made  with  white  flour. 


Substitute  rye  meal  for  graham,  and  proceed  exactly  as 
directed  for  graham  bread. 


Make  this  bread  as  directed  for  entire-wheat  bread,  sub- 
stituting fine  rye  flour  for  the  entire-wheat  flour. 


i  gill  of  molasses. 

Sift  all  the  meal  into  a  bowl.  Put  the  milk,  molasses, 
and  salt  into  a  bowl.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cold  water 
and  add  to  the  liquid  ingredients.  Stir  this  into  the  meal 
and  beat  vigorously  for  five  minutes  or  more ;  then  put 
into  a  well  buttered  brown-bread  tin  and  steam  for  five 
hours ;  or  the  batter  may  be  put  into  three  one-pound 
baking-powder  cans.  They  will  steam  in  less  time  than 
if  in  the  large  loaf.  Whatever  sort  of  tin  the  loaf  be 
steamed  in,  it  must  have  a  cover.  It  will  do  no  harm  to 
cook  this  bread  more  than  five  hours,  but  if  in  the  large  loaf 
it  must  not  cook  less.  Graham  meal  may  be  substituted 
for  the  rye. 


Rye  Bread. 


Rye  Bread,  No.  2. 


Boston  Brown  Bread. 


3  gills  of  corn  meal. 
3  gills  of  rye  meal. 
5  gills  of  sweet  milk. 


i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


223 


Steamed  Indian  Bread. 


]4.  pint  of  corn  meal. 
y2  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 
3  tablespoonf  uls  of  cold  water. 
1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  gen- 
erous measure. 


Sift  the  meal  and  flour  into  the  mixing  bowl,  and  add  the 
salt.  Mix  the  milk  and  molasses  together.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  the  water  and  stir  into  the  milk  and  molasses.  Add 
this  to  the  flour  and  meal,  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the 
butter,  melted,  and  turn  the  batter  into  a  well  buttered 
bread  pan.  Cover  the  pan  and  place  in  the  steamer. 
Cook  for  four  hours  and  a  half.  Take  the  pan  from  the 
steamer,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour 
longer. 

This  bread  is  delicious  served  hot  from  the  oven,  or 
toasted  and  buttered,  or  toasted  and  served  with  hot  cream 
poured  over  it. 

Pulled  Bread. 

Tear  the  crust  from  a  part  of  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread. 
Now  tear  the  crumb  of  the  loaf  into  long,  thin  pieces. 
Spread  the  torn  bread  in  a  pan  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  to 
become  brown  and  crisp.  It  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  cheese.  Pulled  bread  is  also  nice  with 
chocolate  or  coffee. 

Rolls  from  Bread  Dough. 

It  is  almost  impossible  to  shape  and  raise  rolls  for  an 
early  breakfast,  but  if  one  have  a  cold  room  or  a  refrigerator 
the  rolls  can  be  put  in  the  pan  the  night  before,  and  they 
will  then  be  ready  to  bake  for  breakfast.  Reserve  about 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  risen  bread  dough  and  work  into 
it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard.  Put  the  dough  in  a 
bowl ;  cover  it  with  a  plate  and  place  the  bowl  in  the 
refrigerator  or  in  a  cold  room.    In  the  evening  shape  the 


224       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


dough  into  rolls  and  rub  a  little  soft  butter  over  them. 
Cover  the  pan  closely,  but  leave  ample  room  for  the  rolls  to 
rise ;  then  put  in  the  refrigerator  or  cold  room.  Bake  in 
the  morning  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


Sponge  Rolls. 

I  pint  of  flour.  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

^  pint  of  warm  water.  I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  y%  cupful  of  yeast. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  bowl ;  then  add  the  salt  and  sugar. 
Melt  the  butter  in  the  warm  water  (be  sure  it  is  not  above 
ioo°),  and  add  the  yeast.  Put  this  mixture  with  the  flour, 
and  beat  thoroughly  with  a  strong  spoon.  Cover  the  bowl 
and  let  the  dough  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  butter  a 
French-roll  pan  and  half  fill  each  compartment  with  the 
sponge,  being  careful  not  to  break  it  down  unnecessarily. 
Let  the  rolls  rise  for  an  hour  and  bake  them  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


Parker  House  Rolls. 

\%  pints  of  flour.  I  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard. 

%  pint  of  milk,  scant  measure.  %.  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or 
i  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  %  cupful  of  liquid  yeast. 

Boil  the  milk,  and  let  it  cool.  Sift  the  flour  into  the 
mixing  bowl.  Mix  the  salt  and  sugar  with  the  flour.  Make 
a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  by  drawing  it  back  to  the 
sides  of  the  pan.  Pour  the  milk  very  gently  into  this  place, 
being  careful  not  to  wet  the  flour  above  the  point  where 
the  milk  will  come  when  it  is  all  poured  in.  Now  add  the 
dissolved  yeast,  stirring  gently  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Cover  the  bowl  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  four  hours ; 
then  stir  the  mixture  until  a  dough  is  formed.  Add  the 
butter  or  lard,  and  knead  on  the  board  for  twenty  minutes. 
Do  not  use  any  flour  in  kneading.    Put  the  dough  back  in 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


225 


the  bowl ;  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  to  nearly 
three  times  the  original  size  (it  will  take  about  three  hours 
for  this) .  Next  put  the  dough  on  the  board  and  roll  down 
to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch.  Cut  the  dough  with  an 
oval  cutter.  Place  a  small  round  stick  on  the  roll,  about 
one  third  of  the  distance  from  the  end.  Press  with  the 
stick  until  the  dough  is  half  as  thick  here  as  in  other  parts. 
Fold  the  short  end  of  the  dough  over,  and  the  roll  will  be 
shaped.  A  little  soft  butter  may  be  placed  between  the 
folds.  Place  the  rolls  in  a  buttered  pan,  having  them  a 
little  way  apart.  Cover,  and  set  in  rather  a  cool  place  — 
say  seventy  degrees  —  until  the  rolls  are  risen  to  a  little 
more  than  double  the  original  size.  Bake  them  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Caution.  Do  not  use  any  flour  in  kneading  the  dough, 
and  when  it  has  risen  put  no  flour  on  the  board  when  it  is  to 
be  rolled  out.  The  risen  dough  must  not  be  kneaded,  merely 
turned  on  the  board  and  rolled  thin.  If  the  rolls  be  re- 
quired for  luncheon  begin  them  at  half  past  seven  or  eight 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  double  the  amount  of  yeast. 
The  raising  time  will  then  be  only  half  that  given.  This 
dough  can  be  used  for  luncheon  rolls  and  pin  wheels. 


Boil  the  milk,  and  add  the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  it. 
Let  the  mixture  stand  until  it  becomes  blood-warm ;  then 
add  the  yeast.  Pour  this  new  mixture  on  the  flour,  and  beat 
well  with  a  strong  spoon  ;  then  knead  on  the  board  for 
twenty  minutes.  Return  the  dough  to  the  bowl,  and  cover 
closely,  —  first  with  a  towel,  then  with  a  tin  or  wooden  cover. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  shape  in 
either  long  or  cleft  rolls,  and  let  these  rise  in  the  pans  for 


Milk  Rolls. 


I  pint  of  flour. 
1%  gills  of  milk. 
y%  cupful  of  yeast. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


226       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


an  hour  and  a  quarter,  or  until  they  have  doubled  in  size. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour,  if  the  rolls 
be  placed  close  together  ;  but  if  they  be  detached,  as  would 
be  the  case  with  cleft  rolls,  bake  for  only  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 


Luncheon  Rolls. 

Make  the  dough  for  milk  rolls.  In  the  morning  work  it 
well  in  the  bowl ;  then  sprinkle  the  board  lightly  with  flour, 
and  roll  the  dough  down  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an 
inch.  Spread  this  with  soft  butter  and  roll  up  as  for  a  jelly 
roll.  Cut  from  this  slices  about  an  inch  thick,  and  set 
them  on  end  in  a  buttered  baking-pan.  Have  the  rolls  a 
little  way  apart  and  let  them  rise  to  double  the  original 
size.  Bake  them  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes. 


Baking  Powder  Biscuit. 

I  pint  of  flour,  measured  before  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

sifting.  y2  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Yz  pint  of  milk,  scant  measure.  ]/2  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

i  yz  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  y2  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


Mix  thoroughly  in  a  sieve  the  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  bak- 
ing powder,  and  then  rub  through  the  sieve.  Rub  the  but- 
ter and  lard  into  this  mixture.  Have  the  oven  very  hot, 
the  pans  buttered,  the  board,  cutter,  and  rolling  pin  ready. 
Now  add  the  milk  to  the  mixture,  stirring  quickly  and  vigor- 
ously with  a  strong  spoon.  Sprinkle  the  board  with  flour 
and  turn  out  the  dough  upon  it.  Roll  down  to  the  thick- 
ness of  about  half  an  inch  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Do  not  crowd  the  biscuit  in  the  pan. 
If  they  be  cut  small,  and  the  oven  be  very  hot,  they  will 
bake  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  They  should  not  stand  in 
the  oven  after  they  are  done. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


227 


It  is  impossible  to  give  in  this  receipt  the  exact  quantity 
of  milk  to  use,  flour  varies  so  much  ;  but  the  dough  should 
be  mixed  as  soft  as  it  is  possible  to  handle. 

Quick  Luncheon  Rolls. 

Follow  the  rule  for  baking  powder  biscuit ;  then  roll  the 
dough  thin,  spread  it  with  soft  butter  and  roll  up  like  jelly 
roll.  Cut  the  roll  into  slices  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
thick  and  set  them  on  end  in  a  baking-pan,  having  them  a 
little  way  apart.  Bake  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  fif- 
teen minutes. 

Pin  Wheels. 

Make  the  dough  for  milk  rolls,  and  when  it  has  risen,  roll 
it  as  thin  as  possible.  Spread  it  with  soft  butter  and 
sprinkle  over  this  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon  mixed  together.  Roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll 
and  cut  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Place  these 
slices  in  a  well  buttered  pan  and  let  them  rise  to  double  the 
original  size.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

If  you  prefer,  a  baking  powder  biscuit  dough  may  be  used 
and  the  pin  wheels  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Crumpets. 

1  pint  of  flour,  generous  measure.   1/l  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  pint  of  warm  water.  %  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

x/%  cupful  of  yeast.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Put  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  in  a  bowl.  Add  the  water 
and  yeast,  and  beat  vigorously  for  fifteen  minutes.  Cover 
the  bowl,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing beat  in  the  melted  butter  and  pour  the  batter  into  but- 
tered muffin  pans.  Let  the  crumpets  rise  for  an  hour,  and 
bake  them  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


228        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 

If  you  choose  you  may  add  the  butter  to  the  mixture  at 
night.  In  that  case  the  risen  sponge  may  be  taken  out  by 
spoonfuls,  being  careful  not  to  break  it  down,  and  the  crum- 
pets will  then  require  only  half  an  hour  to  rise. 

Crumpets  may  be  baked  on  a  griddle  instead  of  in  muffin 
pans.  If  they  are  baked  on  a  griddle,  measure  the  quart  of 
flour  lightly.  When  ready  to  fry  them,  butter  the  muffin 
rings  and  also  a  griddle,  which  should  not  be  so  hot  as  for 
common  griddle-cakes.  Place  the  buttered  rings  on  the 
griddle  and  put  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  in  each  one.  When 
the  crumpets  get  done  on  one  side,  turn  them,  and  brown 
the  other  side.  It  will  take  about  twelve  minutes  to  cook 
them. 


Sift  the  flour  and  mix  with  it  the  sugar  and  salt.  Heat 
the  milk  to  about  a  hundred  degrees,  and  dissolve  the  butter 
in  it.  Dissolve  the  compressed  yeast  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  tepid  water,  and  stir  into  the  milk  and  butter.  Separate 
the  parts  of  the  egg,  and  beat  the  white  until  light ;  then 
beat  the  yolk  well.  Add  the  milk  mixture  and  the  egg  to 
the  flour,  and  beat  well.  Pour  this  batter  into  a  well  but- 
tered cake  pan.  Cover,  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  for 
two  hours.  Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  This  is  suitable  for  luncheon  or 
supper.   If  any  of  the  cake  be  left,  split,  toast,  and  butter  it. 


Sally  Lunn. 


i  pint  of  flour. 

x/i  pint  of  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


il/2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
%  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or 
]4-  cupful  of  liquid  yeast. 


i  egg. 


Flour  Pop-overs. 


I  pint  of  flour. 
I  pint  of  milk. 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
i  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


3  eggs. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


229 


Pop-overs  should  always  be  baked  in  stone  or  earthen- 
ware cups  that  come  for  the  purpose,  the  former  being  by 
far  the  better.  Have  a  dozen  cups  buttered  and  arranged 
in  an  old  dripping-pan.  Put  the  sifted  flour,  sugar,  and 
salt  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  the  eggs  until 
very  light ;  then  add  the  milk  to  them. 
Pour  this  mixture  on  the  flour,  only  half  of 
it  at  first,  and  beat  until  the  batter  is  smooth 
and  light,  say  for  about  five  minutes.  Pour 
the  batter  into  the  cups  and  bake  in  a  mod-  muffin  cup. 
erately  hot  oven  for  fifty  minutes.  They  should,  when 
done,  have  increased  to  four  times  their  original  size. 

If  only  half  a  dozen  pop-overs  be  wanted,  use  half  of  all 
the  other  materials,  and  take  two  small  eggs  or  a  very  large 
one. 

Rye  Pop-overs. 

y2  pint  of  wheat  flour.  3  eggs. 

3  gills  of  rye  meal.  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  pint  of  milk.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Make  these  the  same  as  flour  pop-overs,  only  bake  them 
one  hour. 

Graham  Pop-overs. 

Made  the  same  as  the  rye,  substituting  graham  for  rye. 


Wheat  Gems. 


y2  pint  of  flour. 
x/z  pint  of  milk. 
I  large  egg. 


1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
x/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Beat  the  egg  till  it  is  light,  and  add  the  milk  to  it.  Add 
half  of  this  mixture  to  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar.  Beat  well, 
and  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  eggs ;  then  beat  for 
five  minutes  longer.  Pour  the  batter  into  hot  buttered  gem- 
pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 


230     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Raised  Wheat  Muffins. 


i  generous  pint  of  flour. 
y2  pint  of  milk. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
y2  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  egg. 

Y%  cupful  of  yeast,  or  3^  of  a  yeast 
cake. 


Put  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  in  a  deep  earthen  bowl. 
Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  butter  to  it.  Let  this  mixture 
stand  until  only  tepid  ;  then  add  the  milk, 
butter,  and  yeast  to  the  flour,  and  beat 
muffin  pans.  weu  Cover  the  bowl  and  let  it  stand  in 
rather  a  cool  part  of  the  kitchen,  unless  the  weather  be  very 
cold ;  in  which  case  it  will  be  necessary  to  keep  the  bowl  in 
a  warm  place.  When  morning  comes,  the  batter  will  be 
found  to  have  risen  to  a  light  sponge.  Beat  the  egg  till 
very  light  and  add  it  to  this  sponge,  beating  in  well.  Half 
fill  well  buttered  muffin  pans  with  the  batter ;  cover,  and 
let  the  muffins  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  one  hour.  Bake  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

These  muffins  should  not  be  set  to  rise  before  nine  o'clock 
at  night.  They  are  nice  for  luncheon  or  tea,  but  when  they 
are  intended  for  luncheon  put  them  to  rise  in  the  morning 
and  use  almost  twice  as  much  yeast  as  you  otherwise  would. 
With  the  quantity  of  materials  stated  above,  a  dozen  muf- 
can  be  made. 


Sour  Milk  or  Buttermilk  Muffins. 


3  gills  of  flour. 

Vz  pint  of  sour  milk. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


y.  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Melt  the  butter  in  a  hot  cup.  Put  the  dry  ingredients  in 
a  mixing  bowl.  Beat  the  egg  till  it  is  light.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  the  water  and  add  it  to  the  milk.  Stir  well,  and  add 
to  the  dry  mixture ;  then  add  the  egg,  and  finally  the  melted 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


231 


butter.  Beat  well  and  pour  into  hot  buttered  gem-pans. 
Bake  for  twenty  minutes. 


Graham  Muffins. 


1  gill  of  cold  water. 
I  gill  of  sweet  milk. 
^  pint  of  graham. 
y2  pint  of  wheat  flour. 
l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 

powder. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses. 
1  egg. 


Mix  the  graham,  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together, 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Beat  the  egg  till  very  light,  and 
add  the  milk  and  molasses  to  it.  Turn  this  mixture  on 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  beat  vigorously  for  about  a  minute. 
Fill  a  dozen  well  buttered  muffin  cups  with  the  batter,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Sugar  may  be  substituted  for  the  molasses.  These  muf- 
fins, when  cold,  are  good  for  luncheon  or  dinner. 

Rye  Muffins. 
Make  them  the  same  as  graham  muffins. 


Graham  Muffins  with  Sour  Milk. 

y2  pint  of  sour  milk.  x/z  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

y2  pint  of  graham.  l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  gill  of  flour.  1  tablespoonful  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  1  egg. 

Make  in  the  same  way  flour  muffins  are  made,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

Rye  Muffins  with  Sour  Milk. 

Make  these  the  same  as  graham  with  sour  milk,  substi- 
tuting rye  meal  for  graham. 


232        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Cream  of  Tartar  Muffins. 

I  pint  of  flour,  measured  before  %  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

'sifting.  I  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

3  scant  gills  of  milk.  ^  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

I  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  ]/2  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
%  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
and  into  a  bowl.  Add  the  milk,  and  then  the  butter  and 
lard,  melted.  Beat  quickly,  and  put  into  heated  and  buttered 
iron  gem- pans.  Bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
If  more  convenient,  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der may  be  substituted  for  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar. 

With  these  ingredients  a  dozen  muffins  can  be  made. 

Blueberry  Muffins. 

Make  these  the  same  as  cream  of  tartar  muffins,  using, 
however,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  lightly  stirring 
into  the  batter  half  a  pint  of  blueberries. 


Yellow  Corn  Meal  Muffins. 


%  pint  of  yellow  corn  meal. 

x/l  pint  of  flour. 

2)/z  gills  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  ^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

i  egg. 


Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
and  into  a  bowl.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  hot  cup.  Beat  the 
egg  till  light.  Add  the  milk  to  it  and  turn  this  mixture 
into  the  bowl  containing  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the 
melted  butter,  and  beat  quickly  and  vigorously.  Pour 
into  buttered  muffin  pans  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


233 


White  Corn  Meal  Muffins. 


yz  pint  of  white  corn  meal. 
]/2  pint  of  sifted  flour. 
y2  pint  of  milk,  generous  meas- 
ure. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


\]A  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  egg. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  hot  cup  and  pour  the  boiling  water 
over  it.  Set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove.  Mix  all  the 
dry  ingredients  and  rub  through  a  sieve  and  into  a  bowl. 
Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  add  the  milk  to  it.  Stir  this 
mixture  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  melted  butter 
and  water.  Pour  into  buttered  muffin  pans  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

With  these  ingredients  a  dozen  muffins  can  be  made. 


Corn  Bread. 


yz  pint  of  flour. 

1  <>ill  of  corn  meal. 
y2  pint  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

I  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


\]/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
y$  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 
1  egg. 


Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  add  the  milk  to  it ;  then 
pour  this  mixture  on  the  dry  ingredients,  which  should  be 
beaten  well.  Now  add  the  butter,  first  melting  it  in  the 
hot  water.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  well  buttered  pan  and 
bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


Spider  Corn  Cake. 


cupful  of  corn  meal. 
y  cupful  of  flour. 
}4  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


1  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 
)A  cupful  of  sour  milk. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  egg. 


234     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Have  a  small  short-handled,  cast-iron  frying-pan  heating 
on  the  top  of  the  stove.  Put  all  the  dry  ingredients,  except 
the  soda,  in  a  sieve  and  rub  through 
into  a  bowl.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
half  a  cupful  of  the  sweet  milk,  and 
frying-pan.  ac[d  jt  to  the  sour.  Stir  this  mixture 
and  the  well  beaten  egg  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Butter 
the  hot  frying-pan  with  the  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  pour  the  batter  into  the  pan.  Now  pour  the  other 
half  cupful  of  milk,  slowly  and  gently,  over  the  mixture  in 
the  pan  (it  must  not  be  stirred).  Put  the  pan  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven,  and  cook  the  cake  for  half  an  hour. 
Slip  out  on  a  hot  plate  and  serve  at  once. 


Corn  Dodgers. 

3  gills  of  corn  meal.  l/2  pint  of  boiling  water,  —  gen- 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  erous. 

i  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Sausage  or  pork  fat,  or  any  good 

I  teaspoonful  of  butter.  drippings  for  frying. 

Put  the  meal,  salt,  sugar,  and  butter  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
the  boiling  water  on  the  mixture.  Beat  the  batter  vigor- 
ously for  two  or  three  minutes  ;  then  shape  it  with  the 
hands  into  small,  flat  cakes.  Have  in  the  frying-pan  hot 
fat  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch.  When  it  is  smoking  hot, 
put  in  the  cakes  and  fry  on  one  side  until  brown,  then  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other  side.    Serve  very  hot. 


Baltimore  Hominy  Bread. 

I  gill  of  fine  breakfast  hominy.       I  level  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
i  gill  of  milk.  i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

i  pint  of  water.  2  eggs. 

Wash  the  hominy,  and  stir  it  into  the  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Add  the  salt,  and  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  stirring 
often  ;  or  half  an  hour  will  do,  if  you  can  afford  no  more 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


235 


time.  Take  the  cooked  hominy  from  the  fire  and  beat  the 
butter  into  it ;  then  add  the  milk,  and  beat  for  four  or  five 
minutes.  Beat  the  eggs  till  light,  and  add  them  to  the 
other  ingredients.  Butter  a  deep  earthen  plate  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  it.  Bake  in  rather  a  hot  oven  for  half  an 
hour.    Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

This  bread  is  nice  with  any  kind  of  meat,  but  particularly 
with  broiled  or  fried  bacon. 


Put  the  buckwheat,  meal,  and  salt  in  a  deep  pail,  and 
add  to  the  mixture  the  water,  yeast,  and  molasses.  Beat 
vigorously  for  twenty  minutes.  Cover  the  pail  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  until  morning.  In  the  morning  rub  the  soda 
through  a  fine  sieve,  letting  it  fall  on  the  batter.  Beat  well. 
Fry  on  a  griddle,  serving  as  soon  as  cooked.  Reserve  one 
pint  of  the  batter  for  raising  the  next  batch  of  cakes.  It 
should  be  kept  in  the  refrigerator  or  the  cellar. 

Remember  that  success  in  making  buckwheat  cakes  de- 
pends largely  upon  a  thorough  beating  and  careful  raising. 


Buckwheat  Cakes. 


1  pint  of  buckwheat. 

1  gill  of  white  corn  meal. 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 


]/2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
1  gill  of  yeast. 

1  generous  pint  of  warm  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 


Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes. 


1  pint  of  sour  milk. 

1  generous  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  of  water. 


1  egg. 


Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water  and  stir  into  the  sour 
milk.  Add  the  flour,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  beat  well ;  then 
add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the  butter,  melted.    If  there 


236     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


be  plenty  of  sour  cream,  use  a  gill,  and  omit  the  butter. 
Put  the  cream  in  the  measure  and  then  fill  up  with  the 
sour  milk. 

Baking  Powder  Griddle  Cakes. 


)/2  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

}y  pint  of  flour. 

1/3  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 


Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Pour  the  milk  upon  them,  and  beat  well.  Add  the  but- 
ter, and  beat  a  minute  longer.  Fry  in  small  cakes  on  a 
griddle. 

Sour  Milk  Indian  Griddle  Cakes. 

Make  these  the  same  as  flour  griddle  cakes,  using  half 
flour  and  half  corn  meal. 


Sour  Milk  Graham  Griddle  Cakes. 

Make  these  the  same  as  the  Indian,  substituting  an  equal 
quantity  of  graham  for  corn  meal. 


Hominy  Griddle  Cakes. 


1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

1  gill  of  fine  breakfast  hominy 

y2  pint  of  flour. 


]/2  pint  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  egg,  —  two  would  be  better. 


Put  the  hominy  and  half  the  salt  in  the  boiling  water,  and 
cook  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  take  from  the  fire  and  add  to  it  the  milk,  flour, 
and  remainder  of  the  salt,  and  beat  vigorously  for  fifteen 
minutes ;  then  add  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately.   Fry  in  very  small  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle. 


BREAD  IX  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


237 


Hominy  Griddle  Cakes  with  Sour  Milk. 

y2  pint  of  cooked  horniny.  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

}i  pint  of  sour  milk.  1  tablespoonful  of  water. 

)/2  pint  of  flour.  1  egg. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Have  the  hominy  freshly  cooked  or  warmed  over.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  in  the  cold  water  and  stir  into  the  sour 
milk.  Add  the  flour,  salt,  and  hominy,  and  beat  well  ; 
then  put  in  the  egg,  also  well  beaten.    Fry  in  small  cakes. 


Ground  Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 


1  pint  of  milk. 
\y2  gills  of  water. 

3  gills  of  wheat  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour. 


1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
)/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  eggs. 


Put  the  milk  on  to  heat  in  the  double-boiler.  Mix  the 
rice  flour  with  one  gill  of  the  water  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often.  Turn  the 
cooked  mixture  into  a  large  bowl  and  stir  occasionally 
while  cooling.  This  is  to  prevent  the  forming  of  a  crust  on 
the  batter.  When  cold,  add  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  the 
soda,  dissolved  in  half  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Now  beat  in 
the  flour.  Finally  add  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately.  Fry  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle,  and  serve 
immediately. 

Blueberry  Griddle  Cakes. 


y2  pint  of  sour  milk. 

y2  pint  of  flour. 

y2  pint  of  blueberries. 


V2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
}/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  water. 


Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cold  water.  Stir  this  into  the 
sour  milk.  Now  add  the  flour  and  salt,  and  beat  well. 
Stir  the  berries  in  very  gently.  Fry  the  same  as  any  other 
griddle  cakes. 


238      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Bread  Griddle  Cakes. 


1  pint  of  stale  bread. 

3  gills  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  flour. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  nutmeg,  grated- 

'%  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk  for  several  hours,  then  rub  it 
through  a  colander.  Add  the  seasonings,  the  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  then  the  flour. 
Beat  well,  and  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Fry  on  a  moder- 
ately hot  griddle. 

These  cakes  take  longer  to  cook  than  the  ordinary  batter 
cake.  If  eggs  be  dear,  use  two  more  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  omit  one  egg. 


Boil  the  milk  and  pour  it  on  the  corn  meal.  Let  this 
stand  until  it  becomes  tepid.  Add  the  yeast,  and  pour  the 
liquid  mixture  on  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  well;  then 
cover  the  bowl  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  the  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  sepa- 
rately.   Fry  the  cakes  on  a  griddle. 


Raised  Flannel  Cakes. 


y2  pint  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  corn  meal. 
zy2  gills  of  milk. 
I  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 


1  egg. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


Waffles. 


%  pint  of  milk. 
x/2  pint  of  flour. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


2  eggs. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Warm  the  milk,  and  melt  the  butter  in  it.  Let  the  mix- 
ture cool  to  about  blood-heat.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
till  light,  and  add  the  milk  and  butter  to  them.    Pour  this 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS.  239 

mixture  on  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  them  into  the  batter.   Add  the  salt. 


WAFFLE-IRON. 


Have  the  waffle-iron  hot  and  well  greased,  and  fry  the 
waffles  at  once.  Serve  them  the  moment  they  are  taken 
from  the  irons. 

If  eggs  be  scarce,  use  one  egg  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder. 

In  cooking  waffles  it  is  important  to  have  both  halves 
of  the  iron  equally  hot ;  and  to  insure  this  the  iron  must 
be  turned  frequently,  both  before  and  after  the  batter  is 
poured  in. 


240       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Hominy  Waffles. 


Y2  pint  of  hot  boiled  hominy. 
Y2  pint  of  milk. 

1  pint  of  flour,  generous  measure. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Stir  the  butter  and  salt  into  the  hot  hominy.  Gradually 
beat  in  the  milk ;  then  let  the  mixture  cool.  Mix  the 
baking  powder  with  the  flour,  and  sift  into  the  horn  my 
mixture.  Beat  well;  then  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
cook  in  hot  irons.  Serve  the  waffles  the  instant  they  come 
from  the  irons. 


Raised  Wheat  Waffles. 

i  pint  of  flour.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

3  gills  of  milk.  yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Y%  cupful  of  yeast.  I  egg. 
I  tablespoonf  ul  of  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk,  and,  after  adding  the  butter  to  it,  let  the 
mixture  stand  until  cool.  Put  the  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a 
bowl.  Add  the  milk  and  yeast,  and  beat  well  for  fifteen 
minutes,  or  even  twenty.  Let  this  batter  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Have  the  waffle- 
irons  hot  and  well  greased,  and  cook  the  cakes  quickly. 
They  should  be  served  the  moment  they  come  from  the 
irons.  They  will  be  sufficiently  cooked  as  soon  as  they  are 
browned  on  both  sides. 


CHAPTER  XVL 


CAKE. 


Raised  Fruit  Cake. 


3  gills  of  raised  dough, 
i  gill  of  butter. 
yz  gill  of  wine. 

1  gill  of  flour. 

2  gills  of  sugar. 


j£  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
5^  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
2  eggs. 

%  pound  of  raisins. 


Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cold  water  and  work  into  the 
dough.  Now  add  the  butter,  sugar,  nutmeg,  wine,  and  the 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  then  beat  in 
the  flour.  Stir  in  the  raisins,  and  put  into  a  deep  well 
buttered  bread -pan  to  rise  for  one  hour.  Bake  for  an 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


Spice  Cake. 


%  cupful  of  butter. 
x/i  cupful  of  sugar. 

cupful  of  molasses. 
2  cupfuis  of  flour,  scant  measure. 

cupful  of  sour  milk. 
%  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 


Ys  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

*4  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

%  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

The  juice  and  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

I  egg 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Gradually  beat  into  it  the 
sugar,  then  the  spice  and  lemon,  and  next  the  molasses. 
Now  dissolve  the  soda  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water, 
and  stir  it  into  the  sour  milk.  Add  this  and  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  to  the  other  ingredients.    Lastly,  add  the  flour,  and 

16 


242       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


beat  briskly  for  half  a  minute.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifty  minutes. 

This  cake  will  keep  moist  for  a  week  or  ten  days.  If 
one  like  fruit,  half  a  cupful  of  stoned  raisins  and  half  a 
cupful  of  currants  may  be  stirred  lightly  into  the  batter  just 
before  it  is  put  in  the  pan. 


Blackberry  Jam  Cake. 


Yz  cupful  of  butter. 

%  cupful  of  sugar. 

i  generous  cupful  of  flour. 

%  cupful  of  stoned  raisins. 

Yi  cupful  of  blackberry  jam. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream 

or  milk. 
V2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
]/z  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
2  eggs. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  the  sugar. 
When  very  light,  beat  in  the  jam  and  nutmeg.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  add  it  to 
the  sour  cream.  Add  this  and  the  egg,  well  beaten,  to  the 
other  ingredients.  Now  add  the  flour,  and  beat  for  half  a 
minute.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  over  the  raisins, 
and  stir  them  in  lightly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  well  but- 
tered pan,  and  bake  for  fifty  minutes.  This  makes  one 
small  loaf. 

This  cake  may  be  put  away  to  be  used  as  a  pudding  when 
convenient.  Steam  it  for  one  hour,  and  serve  with  a  wine 
sauce.    It  is  almost  as  good  as  a  plum  pudding. 


Rich  Sponge  Cake. 

6  large  eggs.  I       3  gills  of  flour. 

3  gills  of  sugar.  I        1  lemon. 

Grate  a  little  of  the  lemon  rind  into  a  deep  saucer. 
Squeeze  the  juice  on  this  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
the  sugar  together  until  the  mixture  is  a  light,  spongy  mass. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  beat  a  little  longer. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  whisk  until  a  thick  white 


CAKE. 


243 


froth  is  formed.  Cut  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs  into  the 
sugar  and  yolks,  adding  only  a  little  at  a  time,  and  doing 
the  work  lightly  and  gently,  so  as  not  to  break  down  the 
frothy  egg.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well  buttered  pan,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  the  time  of  baking  depending 
upon  the  thickness  of  the  loaf.  If  it  be  three  inches  deep 
when  put  in  the  pan,  it  will  take  one  hour  to  bake.  It  is 
essential  that  the  oven  should  be  very  slow  at  first.  This 
will  cause  the  sponge  to  rise  evenly,  making  the  cake  ten- 
der, rich,  and  moist. 


Plain  Sponge  Cake. 


3  eggs- 

3  gills  of  sugar. 

I  pint  of  flour. 

1  gill  of  cold  water. 


1  lemon. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
y2  teaspoontul  of  soda. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Beat  the  eggs  together  until  light.  Add  the  sugar,  and 
beat  with  a  spoon  for  ten  minutes  or  longer.  The  sugar 
and  eggs  must  be  beaten  until  they  form  a  light,  spongy 
mass.  Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  beat  a  little  longer. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cold  water.  Mix  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar with  the  flour.  Stir  the  water  and  soda  into  the  egg 
mixture  ;  then  add  the  flour.  Beat  well,  and  pour  into  the 
pans  and  bake. 

These  materials  will  make  two  sheets,  or  one  sheet  and 
a  small,  round  loaf,  or  one  sheet  and  one  cake,  baked  in  a 
deep  round  tin.  The  round  cake  can  be  used  for  a  cream, 
Washington,  or  chocolate  pie.  A  part  of  the  batter  may  be 
baked  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  served  with  a  liquid  sauce  ; 
or  a  part  of  the  batter  may  be  baked  in  tin  muffin  cups, 
putting  a  teaspoonful  in  each  cup. 

This  sponge  cake  is  one  of  the  most  useful  and  satisfac- 
tory when  made  properly.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to 
have  the  sugar  and  eggs  beaten  together  thoroughly. 


244      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Corn  Starch  Cake. 


i  gill  of  butter, 
i     gills  of  sugar. 
il/2  gills  of  flour. 
Y  gill  of  corn  starch. 
y2  gill  of  milk. 


Yz  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
X  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
2  eggs. 
Flavor. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  the  sugar 
into  it.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  and  stir  them  into  the 
creamed  sugar  and  butter.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk, 
and  add  this.  Mix  together  the  flour,  corn  starch,  and 
cream  of  tartar,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Flavor 
the  batter,  and  beat  vigorously  for  a  few  seconds ;  then 
turn  into  a  well  buttered  shallow  cake  pan.  Bake  for  thirty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

A  good  flavor  for  this  cake  is  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  a  light  grating  of  the  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon. 


Angel  Cake. 

5  whites  of  eggs.  lY  gills  of  powdered  sugar. 

I  scant  gill  of  pastry  flour,  meas-  Y  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
ured  after  sifting.  Y  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Mix  the  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour,  and  sift  four  times. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth.  Sift  the 
powdered  sugar  on  the  eggs,  and  beat  for  three  minutes. 
Add  the  vanilla.  Gradually  add  the  flour,  and  beat  it  in 
quickly.  Pour  the  batter  into  an  ungreased  pan,  and  put 
into  rather  a  cool  oven.    Bake  for  about  forty  minutes. 

When  the  cake  is  baked,  take  the  pan  from  the  oven  and 
invert  it,  letting  it  rest  on  a  sieve  or  rack,  so  that  there 
shall  be  a  current  of  air  under  and  over  the  pan  while  the 
cake  is  cooling. 

Success  in  making  angel  cake  depends  upon  the  proper 
beating  of  the  eggs  and  a  slow  oven. 


CAKE. 


245 


Rich  Cup  Cake. 


yz  pint  of  sugar. 
J/}  cupful  of  butter. 


2  large  eggs. 

Yi  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
%  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Flavor. 


3  gills  of  flour. 
j/2  gill  of  milk. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  the  sugar 
into  it.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  and  add  to  the  sugar 
and  butter.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  stir  into  the 
mixture.  Now  add  the  flour,  in  which  the  cream  of  tartar 
should  be  mixed.  Flavor  with  any  spice  or  extract  you 
like,  or  with  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  the  juice.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  if 
in  a  deep  loaf ;  but  if  in  a  sheet,  thirty  minutes'  time  will 
be  enough. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  the  sugar 
into  it.  Add  the  egg,  unbeaten,  and  beat  the  mixture  vig- 
orously for  three  or  four  minutes.  Add  the  flavor  and  milk, 
and  lastly  the  flour,  in  which  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar 
should  be  thoroughly  mixed.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  shal- 
low cake  pan,  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 


Plain  Cup  Cake. 


1  gill  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
1  gill  of  milk. 

3  gills  of  flour,  scant  measure. 


1  large  egg. 

l/z  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Flavor. 


Cold  Water  Cake. 


y2  pint  of  sugar. 
1  gill  of  cold  water. 

1  scant  gill  of  butter. 

2  small  eggs. 

3  gills  of  flour. 

yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


l/z  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg. 


]/z  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 


pint  of  citron,  currants,  and 

raisins,  in  equal  parts;  the 

raisins  to  be  stoned  and 
chopped. 


246     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the 
sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  water,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Beat  vigor- 
ously until  the  water  will  not  separate  from  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Now  beat  in  the  spice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Now 
add  the  flour,  and  finally  stir  the  fruit  in  lightly.  Bake  in 
one  deep  loaf,  or  in  a  thick  sheet.  If  in  a  loaf,  cook  for 
one  hour;  if  in  a  sheet,  about  thirty-five  minutes. 


Swiss  Cake. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

3  gills  of  sugar. 
^  pint  of  milk. 


y2  pint  of  flour. 

\l/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. 


Measure  the  butter  scantily,  and  make  it  soft  in  a  warm 
bowl.  Beat  the  sugar  into  it.  Have  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  then  beat  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter  for  five  min- 
utes. Add  the  flavor,  then  the  milk,  and  finally  the  flour, 
in  which  the  baking  powder  should  be  mixed.  Bake  for 
about  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  buttered,  shallow  pan.  The 
cake  is  to  be  eaten  fresh. 


Tea  Cake. 


1  gill  of  sugar. 
1  gill  of  milk. 

%,  pint  of  flour,  scant  measure. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


1  egg. 

\y2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
l/e  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Beat  the  butter  until  soft.  Beat  the  sugar  into  it.  Add 
the  unbeaten  egg,  and  beat  vigorously  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  nutmeg  and  milk,  then  the  flour,  in  which  the 
baking  powder  should  be  mixed.  Beat  vigorously  for  a  few 
seconds,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  cake-pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  warm. 


CAKE. 


247 


Blueberry  Cake, 


1  generous  pint  of  flour. 
j£  pint  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

2  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 

powder. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
%,  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 
1  egg. 

y2  pint  of  blueberries. 


Mix  the  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  salt  with  the  flour, 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Rub  the  butter  into  this  mixture. 
Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  add  the  milk  to  it.  Add  this  to 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the  berries, 
stirring  as  little  as  possible.  Spread  the  mixture  in  a  well 
buttered  shallow  baking  pan,  having  it  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  thick.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twenty- 
five  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

The  batter  may  be  put  in  buttered  muffin  tins,  and 
baked  for  about  twenty  minutes.  This  will  fill  twelve 
muffin  cups. 

Hermits. 


1%  gills       of  a  cupful)  of  maple 

sugar. 
1  gill  of  butter. 

1  pint  and  a  gill  (2%  cupfuls)  of 

flour. 
1  egg. 


1  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
X  teaspoonful  of  clove. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  gill  of  currants. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar  and  spice.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  beat 
this  into  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten, 
and  finally  the  flour  and  currants.  Roll  out  about  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  in  squares.  Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven  for 
about  twelve  minutes. 

The  sugar  should  be  the  soft  maple.  The  clove  may  be 
omitted.  If  maple  sugar  is  not  to  be  had,  white  sugar  may 
be  used. 


246       MISS  PARLORS  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the 
sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  water,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Beat  vigor- 
ously until  the  water  will  not  separate  from  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Now  beat  in  the  spice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Now 
add  the  flour,  and  finally  stir  the  fruit  in  lightly.  Bake  in 
one  deep  loaf,  or  in  a  thick  sheet.  If  in  a  loaf,  cook  for 
one  hour ;  if  in  a  sheet,  about  thirty-five  minutes. 


Swiss  Cake. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

3  gills  of  sugar. 
1/l  pint  of  milk. 


pint  of  flour. 
\l/2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. 


Measure  the  butter  scantily,  and  make  it  soft  in  a  warm 
bowl.  Beat  the  sugar  into  it.  Have  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  then  beat  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter  for  five  min- 
utes. Add  the  flavor,  then  the  milk,  and  finally  the  flour, 
in  which  the  baking  powder  should  be  mixed.  Bake  for 
about  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  buttered,  shallow  pan.  The 
cake  is  to  be  eaten  fresh. 


Tea  Cake. 


1  gill  of  sugar. 
1  gill  of  milk. 

%  pint  of  flour,  scant  measure. 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


I  egg. 

teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
l/b  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Beat  the  butter  until  soft.  Beat  the  sugar  into  it.  Add 
the  unbeaten  egg,  and  beat  vigorously  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  nutmeg  and  milk,  then  the  flour,  in  which  the 
baking  powder  should  be  mixed.  Beat  vigorously  for  a  few 
seconds,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  cake-pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  warm. 


CAKE. 


247 


Blueberry  Cake. 


1  generous  pint  of  flour. 
y2  pint  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

2  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 

powder. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
%  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 
1  egg. 

Yz  pint  of  blueberries. 


Mix  the  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  salt  with  the  flour, 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Rub  the  butter  into  this  mixture. 
Beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  add  the  milk  to  it.  Add  this  to 
the  dry  ingredients,  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the  berries, 
stirring  as  little  as  possible.  Spread  the  mixture  in  a  well 
buttered  shallow  baking  pan,  having  it  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  thick.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twenty- 
five  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

The  batter  may  be  put  in  buttered  muffin  tins,  and 
baked  for  about  twenty  minutes.  This  will  fill  twelve 
muffin  cups. 

Hermits. 


\%  gills       of  a  cupful)  of  maple 

sugar. 
1  gill  of  butter. 

1  pint  and  a  gill  (2%  cupfuls)  of 

flour. 
1  egg. 


1  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
%  teaspoonful  of  clove. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  gill  of  currants. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar  and  spice.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  beat 
this  into  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  egg,  well  beaten, 
and  finally  the  flour  and  currants.  Roll  out  about  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  in  squares.  Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven  for 
about  twelve  minutes. 

The  sugar  should  be  the  soft  maple.  The  clove  may  be 
omitted.  If  maple  sugar  is  not  to  be  had,  white  sugar  may 
be  used. 


250      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

into  the  mixture  of  butter  and  sugar.  Dissolve  the  soda 
in  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  sour  milk  and  add  all  to  the  sugar,  butter,  and  eggs. 
Now  stir  in  the  flour.  Cover  the  mixture  and  set  it  away 
in  a  cold  place  until  morning.  In  the  morning  sprinkle 
the  moulding  board  with  flour  and  put  about  one  fourth  of 
the  dough  on  it.  Roll  this  down  to  the  thickness  of  half 
an  inch  and  cut  into  round  cakes  with  a  hole  in  the  centre. 
If  you  do  not  possess  a  regular  doughnut  cutter,  a  biscuit 
cutter  will  do,  as  a  piece  can  be  cut  from  the  centre  with  a 
thimble.    Fry  in  lard  for  about  three  minutes. 

It  is  supposed  that  pastry  flour  will  be  used.  If.  how- 
ever, the  "  new  process  "  flour  be  taken,  omit  one  eighth  of 
the  measure. 

Dropped  Doughnuts. 


I  gill  of  milk, 
i  2:'.\  of  sugar. 
3  gills  of  flour. 

teaspoonful  of  salL 
^  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


The  grated  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon, 
i  heaped  teaspoonful  of  baking 

powder. 
■  egg. 


Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  the 
yolk  and  sugar  with  it  for  three  minutes.  Add  the  season- 
ings, next  the  milk,  and  finally  the  flour,  in  which  the  baking 
powder  should  be  mixed.  Beat  well.  Drop  a  teaspoonful 
of  this  mixture  into  hot  fat  and  cook  for  about  four  minutes, 
turning  the  doughnuts  frequently.  Lift  them  from  the  fat 
with  a  wire  spoon  or  a  fork.  Do  not  stick  the  fork  into 
them.  When  they  are  drained,  sprinkle  them  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  Be  careful  not  to  have  the  fat  too  hot  and 
to  hold  the  teaspoonful  of  batter  close  to  the  fat,  and  the 
doughnuts  will  come  up  in  round  balls.  These  are  very 
delicate. 


CAKE. 


251 


Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

For  the  Cuke. 

3  gills  of  flour.  2  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 

1  gill  of  milk  —  generous  measure.  ter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  1  heaped  teaspoonful  of  baking 

^  teaspoonful  of  salt.  powder. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  rub  twice  through 
a  sieve.  Rub  the  butter  through  this  mixture  ;  then  wet 
with  the  milk.  Butter  a  large,  deep  tin  pie  plate.  Divide 
the  dough  into  two  parts  and  roil  them  out  the  size  of  the 
plate.  Lay  them  in  the  plate,  one  on  top  of  the  other, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  On  taking 
the  two  cakes  from  the  oven,  tear  them  apart.  Place  the 
under  one  on  a  warm  plate  and  butter  well ;  upon  this 
spread  one  pint  of  strawberries,  slightly  crushed,  and  mixed 
with  a  generous  gill  of  sugar ;  put  on  the  top  part  of  the 
cake,  and  serve  immediately. 

This  is  the  old-fashioned  strawberry  short  cake.  Cur- 
rants, blackberries,  peaches,  etc.,  may  be  substituted  for 
the  strawberries  when  that  fruit  is  out  of  season. 


Strawberry  Short  Cake,  No.  2. 

For  the  Cake. 

Jjj  pint  of  flour.  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  sugar.  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

1  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter.    1  egg. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  then  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar.  Now  add  the  unbeaten  egg,  and  beat  the  mixture 
vigorously  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Beat  in  the  milk  and 
then  the  flour,  in  which  the  baking  powder  should  be  mixed. 
Bake  this  batter  in  two  well  buttered  deep  tin  plates.  They 
will  require  about  twenty  minutes'  time  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  baked,  put  them  on  plates  to  cool. 


252        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Filling. 


i  tablespoonful  of  gelatine. 
]/2  gill  of  water. 


i  pint  of  stemmed  strawberries. 
1  ]/2  pints  of  whipped  cream, 
i  gill  of  sugar. 

Measure  the  gelatine  generously  and  put  it  in  a  cup  with 
the  cold  water.  Let  it  soak  for  an  hour  or  more  \  then 
place  the  cup  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Have  the  whipped  cream  in  a  bowl 
and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  ice  water.  Stir  the  sugar  and  dis- 
solved gelatine  into  it.  Continue  stirring  this  mixture 
until  it  thickens.  Spread  half  of  this  cream  on  one  of  the 
cakes,  and  on  this  spread  about  two  thirds  of  the  straw- 
berries. Put  the  second  cake  on  top  of  this.  Spread  the 
remainder  of  the  cream  and  strawberries  on  this,  and  serve 
at  once. 

The  gelatine  may  be  omitted.  In  that  case,  crush  the 
strawberries  and  sugar  together.  Put  a  layer  of  strawberries 
on  the  cakes,  then  a  layer  of  whipped  cream. 


Icing. 


teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  or 
y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 


i  egg  white. 

y2  pint  of  powdered  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  of  water. 

Put  the  unbeaten  white  of  the  egg  into  a  bowl,  and  grad- 
ually beat  into  it  the  powdered  sugar.  When  smooth  and 
light,  add  the  water  and  sugar.  Spread  smoothly  on  the 
cake  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  it  hardens.  If 
in  a  hurry  to  have  it  harden,  omit  the  water. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Make  the  white  icing.  Shave  one  ounce  of  plain  choco- 
late and  put  it  into  a  small  pan  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar  and  one  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  a 
hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy,  and  then  stir  this  into  the 
icing.    If  it  seems  too  thick,  add  a  few  drops  of  water. 

Do  not  use  the  lemon  in  the  white  icing  when  the  choco- 
late is  to  be  added. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 


PASTRY. 


Delicate  Paste. 


i  pint  of  sifted  flour, 
i  gill  of  butter. 
x/z  gill  of  lard. 


i  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

1%,  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  rub  through  a 
sieve  into  a  bowl.  Add  the  butter  and  lard,  and  cut  and 
mix  with  a  knife  until  the  shortening  is  in  fine  bits.  Now 
add  the  cold  water,  still  stirring  with  a  knife.  Sprinkle  the 
board  lightly  with  flour,  and  turn  the  p:iste  out  upon  it. 
Roll  down  into  a  square  sheet  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick.  Fold  up  and  roll  down  again.  Do  this  four  times ; 
then  put  away  to  chill.  This  paste  is  suitable  for  meat  and 
fruit  pies,  baked  dumplings,  tarts,  etc. 


2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Make  this  the  same  as  delicate  paste,  except  that  it  is  to 
be  rolled  but  twice.  This  paste  answers  for  meat  and  fruit 
pies  when  one  does  not  wish  to  use  pastry  as  rich  as  the 
delicate  paste. 


Plain  Paste. 


1  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 


1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
i  generous  gill  of  cold  water. 


254     Miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Mince  Meat. 


2/^  pounds  of  the  round  of 
2  quarts  of  chopped  apples. 
%.  pint  of  chopped  suet. 
\}i  pints  of  stoned  raisins. 
I  pint  of  currants. 
%  pound  of  citron, 
i  quart  of  sugar. 
l/2  pint  of  molasses. 


beef. 


3  pints  of  cider. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
i  tablespoonful  of  allspice. 

i  tablespoonful  of  mace, 
i  level  teaspoonful  of  clove. 
4  nutmegs,  grated. 
4  lemons. 


Put  the  beef  in  a  small  stewpan  and  just  cover  with  boil- 
ing water.  Cook  for  three  hours,  having  the  water  only 
bubble  at  one  side  of  the  stewpan.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
let  the  meat  cool  in  the  water,  with  the  cover  off  the  stew- 
pan. When  cold,  remove  all  fat  and  gristle,  and  chop  the 
meat  rather  fine.  Put  it  in  a  large  bowl  with  all  the  other 
ingredients  except  the  cider,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Now 
add  the  cider,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  in  a  cold  place 
over  night.  In  the  morning  turn  the  mince  meat  into  a 
porcelain  kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point ;  then 
simmer  gently  for  one  hour.  Put  the  mixture  into  stone 
jars  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  ;  or  it  may  be  put  in  glass 
jars  and  sealed.  It  will  keep  for  years  in  this  way.  If  one 
wish  to  add  brandy  or  wine,  it  may  be  done  now  or  at  the 
time  that  the  pies  are  made.  If  economy  be  necessary,  half 
the  amount  of  currants  and  raisins  given  will  answer.  On 
the  other  hand,  if  one  can  afford  it,  when  the  pies  are  being 
made,  one  tumbler  of  jelly  or  marmalade  to  three  or  four 
pies  will  be  found  a  great  improvement. 


3  pints  of  pared  and  sliced  apples.  [  %  pint  of  sugar. 
l/e  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  or  I  tea-  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 


Apple  Pie,  Sliced. 


spoonful  of  cinnamon. 


Half  the  rule  for  delicate  paste. 


Pare  the  apples  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Line  a  large 
plate  with  paste  and  then  fill  with  the  apples,  being  careful 


PASTRY. 


25S 


not  to  break  the  paste.  Sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and  nut- 
meg, and  then  with  the  water.  Roll  the  remainder  of  the 
paste  a  little  larger  than  the  pie  plate.  Make  a  slight  open- 
ing in  the  centre.  Cover  the  pie  with  this,  tucking  the  edges 
under  the  lower  crust.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for 
one  hour.    Reduce  the  heat  after  the  first  half- hour. 


Cover  with  a  thin  crust  a  pie  plate  of  medium  size.  Roll 
a  piece  of  the  paste  into  a  narrow  strip  about  one  fourth  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  long  enough  to  go  around  the  edge  of 
the  plate.  Wet  the  edge  of  the  undercrust  with  cold  water 
and  lay  the  narrow  strip  of  paste  over  it.  Now  rill  the  plate 
with  the  seasoned  apple.  Roll  the  remainder  of  the  paste 
a  little  larger  than  the  pie  plate.  Place  a  larger  plate  on 
this,  upside  down,  and  cut  around  it.  Remove  the  plate, 
cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  of  the  paste,  and  cover  the  pie,  full- 
ing the  crust  on  a  little.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  forty-rive  minutes.  Less  sugar  may  be  used,  and  any 
flavor  may  be  substituted  for  the  nutmeg.  It  must  be  re- 
membered, however,  that  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  lemon 
are  the  best  flavors  for  apple. 


Make  mince  pies  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  stewed 
apple,  but  bake  them  for  one  hour. 


Stewed  Apple  Pie. 


I  pint  of  stewed  apple. 
x/l  pint  of  sugar. 


|  %  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

|  Half  the  rule  for  delicate  paste. 


Mince  Pies. 


Peach  Pie. 


Make  this  in  the  same  way  as  sliced  apple,  but  use  only 
half  as  much  sugar. 


256      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Berry  Pies. 

1  y2  pints  of  blueberries  or  black-   1  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour. 

berries.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Half  the  rule  for  delicate  paste. 

Make  this  in  the  same  way  as  sliced  apple  pie,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifty  minutes. 

Sour  and  juicy  berries  will  require  more  sugar  and  no 
water. 

Lemon  Pie. 

1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  }i  pint  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar.  j£  pint  of  granulated  sugar. 
y2  saltspoonful  of  salt.  2  eggs. 

1  lemon.  %  the  rule  for  delicate  paste. 


Mix  the  corn  starch  with  one  third  of  the  water,  and  put 
the  remainder  on  to  boil.  Stir  the  sugar,  salt,  and  corn 
starch  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  one  minute,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  juice 
and  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  the  lemon.  When  cool,  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Line  a  deep  plate  with 
the  paste  and  fill  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  Take  from  the  oven  and  cool  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  then 
beat  the  powdered  sugar  into  them.  Spread  this  meringue 
over  the  pie,  and  place  in  the  oven.  Cook  for  twelve 
minutes  with  the  oven  door  open \  then  put  away  to  get 
icy  cold. 

Squash  Pie. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

1  pint  of  stewed  squash. 

1  level  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  giil  of  sugar. 


of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
2  eggs. 

A  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  about 

two  inches  long,  or, 
1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon. 


PASTRY. 


257 


Put  the  milk  and  cinnamon  on  the  fire  in  the  double- 
boiler,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Rub  the  squash 
through  a  fine  strainer,  and  add  the  salt,  sugar,  butter, 
and  nutmeg  to  it.  Pour  the  boiling  milk  on  this  mix- 
ture. Remove  the  cinnamon,  and  beat  well ;  then  set 
away  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  the  eggs,  which  should 
have  been  thoroughly  beaten  with  a  spoon.  Line  a  deep 
plate  with  pastry  and  pour  the  squash  mixture  into  it.  Bake 
for  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

Make  these  the  same  as  squash  pies ;  using,  however,  a 
scant  measure  of  sugar. 

Cream  Pie. 


1  gill  of  sugar. 

yz  pint  of  sifted  flour,  scant  meas- 
ure. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


4  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Flavor. 


Make  this  the  same  as  cup  cake  and  bake  in  a  deep  tin 
plate,  in  a  moderate  oven,  for  about  twenty  minutes.  When 
the  cake  is  cool,  split  it  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  fill  with  a 
mixture  made  as  follows  :  — 

Filling. 

l/2  pint  of  milk.  ^  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  1  egg. 

1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Flavor. 

Put  the  milk  in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  unbeaten  egg 
to  these  ingredients.  Beat  with  a  spoon  until  light ;  then 
stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  stir- 
ring often.  Now  add  the  salt,  and  take  from  the  fire. 
When  cool,  add  the  flavor,  which  may  be  anything  you 

17 


258      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


choose.  If  orange,  lemon,  or  vanilla  extract,  use  half  a 
teaspoonful.    Use  the  same  flavor  for  the  cake. 

Washington  Pie. 

Make  the  cake  the  same  as  for  cream  pie,  but  bake  it  in 
two  deep  tin  plates  for  about  twelve  minutes.  Spread  one 
sheet  with  any  kind  of  jelly  or  marmalade.  Lay  the  second 
sheet  on  top  of  this  and  dredge  with  powdered  sugar. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Make  the  same  as  cream  pie,  but  add  to  the  cream  one 
tablespoonful  of  chocolate  dissolved  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  in  half  a  tablepoonful  of  boiling  water.  Cover  the 
cake  with  a  chocolate  icing. 

Berry  Tart. 


\y2  pints  of  berries. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
Half  the  rule  for  delicate  paste. 


Put  the  berries  in  an  oval  vegetable  dish  that  has  a  broad 
rim.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together  and  sprinkle  over 
the  berries.  Pour  the  water  over  the  mixture.  Roll  the 
paste  to  the  shape  of  the  top  of  the  dish,  but  a  little  larger. 
Prick  with  a  fork,  and  cover  the  top  of  the  dish,  turning  in 
the  edges.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifty  min- 
utes. When  cold,  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  crust, 
and  serve. 

The  sugar  is  for  blackberries,  blueberries,  strawberries, 
raspberries,  and  cherries.  Currants  and  gooseberries  will 
require  twice  as  much  sweetening. 

The  dish  may  be  filled  with  apples  or  peaches,  cut  in 
quarters,  instead  of  the  berries.  In  that  case  use  twice  as 
much  water,  and  flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg. 


PASTRY. 


259 


These  tarts  are  much  more  healthful  than  pies,  the  under- 
crust  of  which  is  apt  to  be  soggy. 


Apple  Turnovers. 


]/2  pint  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
\%  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  egg. 

10  tablespoonfuls  of  apple  sauce. 


Mix  the  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  sugar.  Rub  this 
mixture  through  a  sieve  and  then  rub  into  it  the  butter. 
Now  beat  the  egg  till  light,  and  add  to  it  the  milk.  Stir 
this  liquid  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Sprinkle  the  moulding 
board  with  flour,  and  roll  down  the  dough  to  the  thickness 
of  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch.  Cut  this  dough  into  cakes 
the  size  of  a  saucer.  It  is  a  good  way  to  lay  a  saucer  upside 
down  on  the  dough  and  cut  around  it  with  a  jagging-iron  or 
knife. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  stewed,  sweetened,  and  seasoned 
apples  on  each  piece  of  dough  ;  fold  over,  and  roll  up,  pinch- 
ing the  edges  together.  Have  on  the  fire  a  kettle  containing 
hot  fat  about  five  or  six  inches  deep.  When  the  fat  begins 
to  smoke,  put  in  a  few  turnovers  and  cook  for  eight  minutes. 
Drain  on  brown  paper.    They  are  good  hot  or  cold. 

The  apple  used  in  turnovers  may  be  flavored  with  either 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 


PUDDINGS. 


Steamed  Apple  Pudding. 


I  pint  of  flour. 
l/2  pint  of  milk,  scant, 
i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder. 


Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Yz  cupful  of  sugar. 
]/2  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
3  pints  of  apples. 


Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  cut  them  into  eighths.  Mix 
the  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  together,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Warm  a  little  of 
the  milk,  and  dissolve  the  butter  in  it.  Add  the  remainder 
of  the  milk  to  this,  and  pour  upon  the  flour.  Stir  into  a 
smooth  ball,  and,  putting  it  on  a  board  that  has  been  well 
sprinkled  with  flour,  roll  very  thin.  Line  a  buttered  melon 
mould  with  it,  having  the  sheet  of  dough  large  enough  to 


MELON  MOULD. 


STEAMER. 


hang  over  the  sides  of  the  mould.  Now  fill  the  mould  with 
the  apples  and  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  them.  Bring  the 
edges  of  the  paste  together  and  put  the  cover  on  the  mould. 
Steam  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  At  serving  time  turn  out 
on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  with  wine  or  nutmeg  sauce. 


PUDDINGS. 


26l 


This  makes  rather  a  large  pudding  for  three  people,  if 
the  first  part  of  the  dinner  has  been  substantial.  If  one 
prefer,  half  the  quantity  may  be  made 

Quick  Steamed  Apple  Pudding. 


3  pints  of  pared  and  quartered 

apples. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
]/z  pint  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  sugar. 


)/2  pint  of  water. 

1  gill  of  milk. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

y  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Put  the  apples,  water,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  into  a  broad 
porcelain  or  granite-ware  saucepan,  and  set  on  the  fire. 
When  the  apples  begin  to  boil,  set  back  where  they  will 
cook  gently.  Now  mix  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder 
together  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Rub  the  butter  into  this 
dry  mixture  and  then  wet  with  the  milk,  stirring  rapidly  into 
a  soft  dough.  Sprinkle  the  bread  board  with  flour,  and 
roll  the  dough  into  a  round  piece  about  the  size  of  the  top 
of  the  saucepan.  Lay  this  on  the  apples  ;  then  put  on  the 
cover,  and  continue  the  gentle  cooking  for  thirty  minutes. 
Now  lift  the  crust  to  a  plate  for  a  moment,  and  turn  the 
apple  into  a  pudding  dish.  Place  the  crust  over  it,  and 
serve  with  nutmeg  sauce  or  creamy  sauce. 


Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

l/z  pint  of  flour.  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  yz  gill  of  cold  water. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard.  5  apples. 

^  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  A  little  nutmeg. 

x/l  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Make  the  paste  the  same  as  directed  for  delicate  paste. 
(See  Pastry,  page  253.)  Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Cut  the 
paste  in  five  equal  parts,  and  roll  one  piece  at  a  time  until 
large  enough  to  cover  the  apple.  Place  an  apple  in  the 
centre  and  fill  the  hole  with  sugar.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  it.    Now  draw  the  paste  over  the  fruit,  pressing  the 


262        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


edges  together,  and  place  in  a  baking  pan,  the  rough  side 
down.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 

Steamed  Apple  Dumplings. 

Make  these  the  same  as  baked  dumplings,  using,  how- 
ever, only  half  as  much  shortening ;  and  steam  for  forty- 
five  minutes. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 


I  gill  of  tapioca. 

\%  pints  of  cold  water. 

i  gill  of  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  salt 
A  heaping  quart  of  pared,  cored, 
and  quartered  apples. 


Wash  the  tapioca  and  let  it  soak  over  night  in  the  water. 
In  the  morning  put  the  tapioca  and  water  in  the  double- 
boiler  and  cook  for  one  hour.  Now  stir  into  the  cooked 
tapioca  the  salt,  sugar,  lemon,  and  apples.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  for 
an  hour  before  it  is  served.  Powdered  sugar  and  cream 
should  be  served  with  it. 


Apple  and  Indian  Pudding. 


I  gill  of  molasses. 

I  quart  of  milk. 

i  gill  of  Indian  meal. 

I  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


l/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  pint  of  pared  and  quartered 

apples. 
y  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Have  the  milk  boiling,  and  pour  it  gradually  upon  the 
meal,  stirring  all  the  while.  Turn  into  the  double-boiler, 
and  cook  for  an  hour,  stirring  often.  Now  add  the  mo- 
lasses, butter,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  the 
apples,  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  cook  in  a 
slow  oven  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  The  apples  may  be 
sour  or  sweet,  but  sweet  are  the  better.  Serve  with  cream 
or  with  hard  sauce. 


PUDDINGS. 


263 


Peach  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Make  this  the  same  as  apple  tapioca,  but  use  fresh,  canned, 
or  evaporated  peaches.  If  the  last  named  be  used,  soak  them 
over  night  in  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  in  the  mora* 
ing  simmer  them  for  ten  or  twenty  minutes. 


Sponge  Apple  Pudding. 


4  large  apples. 
^  pint  of  dour. 
1  gill  of  sugar. 
1  gill  of  niiik. 


1  egg.  » 
1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Have  the  apples  pared  and  sliced.  Beat  the  egg  until 
light ;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  five  minutes  longer. 
Now  add  the  milk,  and  finally  the  flour,  with  which  should 
be  mixed  the  baking  powder.  Beat  the  batter,  and  pour 
it  into  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  that  will  hold  about  a 
quart.  Cover  with  the  apples,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  for  about  forty  minutes.  Serve  with  a  hot  liquid 
sauce. 

Prune  Pudding. 

2  dozen  prunes.  1  lemon. 

*/j  package  of  gelatine.  1  gill  of  sugar. 

1  quart  of  water.  Liquid  cochineal. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Wash  the 
prunes  thoroughly,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water.  Cook  them  slowly  for  two  hours.  Take 
the  prunes  from  the  liquid,  and  remove  the  stones.  Measure 
the  liquid,  and  if  there  be  more  than  half  a  pint,  boil  it  rap- 
idly until  reduced  to  that  amount.  If.  however,  there  be  less 
than  half  a  pint,  add  enough  water  to  make  the  full  measure. 
Return  the  liquid  and  prunes  to  the  fire.  Color  with  a  few 
drops  of  cochineal.  Add  the  lemon  juice,  soaked  gelatine, 
and  sugar.    Stir  the  mixture  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved ; 


264     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


then  turn  it  into  a  mould,  and  set  away  to  harden.  Servs 
this  pudding  with  either  whipped  cream  or  soft  custard. 

If  the  flavor  of  wine  be  liked,  the  water  in  which  the 
prunes  were  cooked  may  be  reduced  to  a  gill,  and  a  gill  of 
wine  be  added  to  the  mixture. 


Prune  Tapioca  Pudding. 

^  cupful  of  tapioca.  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

3  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

1  cupful  of  prunes.  %  cupful  of  sugar- 

Wash  the  tapioca  and  soak  it  over  night  in  the  three  cup- 
fuls of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  put  the  tapioca  and 
water  in  the  double-boiler  and  cook  for  one  hour.  Before 
putting  the  tapioca  on  to  cook,  wash  the  prunes,  and,  put- 
ting them  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  place  on  the  fire.  Let  them  simmer  gently  until  they 
absorb  all  the  water ;  then  turn  out  on  a  plate  to  cool,  and 
remove  the  stones. 

When  the  tapioca  has  been  cooking  for  an  hour,  stir  all 
the  seasonings  into  it.  Spread  a  layer  of  the  tapioca  in  a 
small  pudding  dish ;  then  sprinkle  with  prunes,  next  with 
another  layer  of  tapioca,  and  finally  with  the  remainder  of 
the  prunes.  Cover  with  the  tapioca  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  one  hour.  Take  the  pudding  from  the  oven  and 
let  it  partially  cool ;  then  serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or 
with  soft  custard. 


Raspberry  Tapioca  Pudding. 


}'2       of  f.ikrd  :s.p:o:a, 
\%  gills  of  water. 
%  gill  of  sugar. 


1  pint  of  raspberries. 

^  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

}(  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


After  measuring  the  tapioca,  turn  it  out  on  the  moulding 
board  and  crush  it  as  fine  as  possible  with  the  rolling  pin. 
Now  wash  it,  and  soak  it  in  the  cold  water  for  three  hours 
or  longer,  —  better  over  night,  if  there  be  time.    Put  the 


PUDDINGS. 


265 


soaked  tapioca  in  a  doubie-boiler  and  cook  it  until  it  is 
perfectly  clear.  If  it  has  been  soaked  over  night  it  will 
cook  in  half  an  hour,  but  if  soaked  for  only  three  hours  it 
will  require  cooking  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  the 
tapioca  is  clear,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  lemon;  then  take 
the  dish  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  raspberries.  Rinse  a 
bowl  with  cold  water  and  pour  the  pudding  into  it.  Set 
away  to  cool.  At  serving  time  turn  out  the  pudding  on  a 
flat  dish  and  surround  it*  with  whipped  cream ;  or  it  may 
be  served  with  plain  cream. 

Little  Fruit  Puddings. 


y2  pint  of  unsifted  flour. 
1  gill  of  sweet  millc 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Y/i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
18  tablespoonfuls  of  stewed  and 
sweetened  fruit. 


Put  the  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together. 
Mix  well,  and  rub  through  the  sieve.  Rub  the  butter  into 
these  ingredients.  Pour  the  milk  on  this  mixture,  and  beat 
well.  Have  six  little  earthen  cups  well  buttered.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  the  batter  in  each  cup,  and  draw  it  to  the 
sides  of  the  cups,  making  a  well  in  the  batter  Put  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  stewed  and  sweetened  fruit  in  these  wells, 
and  cover  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of  the  batter.  Bake 
the  puddings  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 
Turn  out  on  a  warm  dish  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

Blueberry  Pudding. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  V$  of  a  nutmeg. 

i-2  cupful  of  sugar.  l/$  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

34'  cupful  of  flour.  I  tablespoonful  of  sour  milk. 

\y2  cupfuls  of  blueberries.  1  teaspoonful  of  cold  water. 

■  egg. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
beating  well.    Now  add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  beat 

vigorously  for  three  minutes.  Grate  in  the  nutmeg.  Dis- 


266       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


solve  the  soda  in  the  teaspoonful  of  cold  water;  add  the 
sour  milk  to  this,  and  stir  all  into  the  butter  and  sugar 
mixture.  Now  stir  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  add  the  berries, 
stirring  lightly.  Turn  into  a  well  buttered  mould  and  steam 
for  two  hours.  Serve  with  a  hot  sauce.  Foaming  sauce  is 
particularly  good  with  this  pudding. 


Blueberry  Pudding,  No.  2. 


y>_  a  five-cent  loaf  of  baker's  bread. 
3  gills  of  milk. 
2  eggs. 

i  pint  of  blueberries. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Vz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices  and  spread  the  butter  on  it. 
Line  a  pudding  dish  with  the  bread,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
berries.  Put  in  another  layer  of  bread,  then  the  remainder 
of  the  berries,  and  finish  with  bread.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar, 
salt,  and  nutmeg  together,  and  add  the  milk  to  them.  Pour 
this  custard  over  the  bread  and  berries  and  put  away  in  a 
cool  place  for  two  or  three  hours.  Steam  for  one  hour  and 
a  quarter,  and  serve  with  hot  sauce. 

The  pudding  may  be  covered  with  a  plate  and  baked  in 
a  slow  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  if  it  be  inconvenient  to 
steam  it. 


Berry  Pudding. 


yz  pint  of  flour,  generous  measure, 
i  gill  of  milk, 
i  gill  of  sugar. 

3  gills  blueberries  or  blackberries. 


i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking 

powder, 
i  egg. 


Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  then  the  milk,  and  finally  the  flour  and  baking 
powder,  mixed  together.  Beat  well,  and  then  stir  the 
berries  in  lightly.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  a  hot  sauce. 


PUDDINGS. 


267 


This  pudding  may  be  steamed.  It  will  require  two  hours' 
time  for  that  mode  of  cooking. 

Blackberry  Pudding. 

Make  this  in  the  same  manner  as  the  first  blueberry  pud- 
ding, substituting  blackberries  for  the  blueberries. 

Steamed  Black  Pudding. 


1  pint  of  blueberries  or  black- 
berries. 
1  quart  of  stale  bread 
1  gill  of  sugar. 


y2  pint  of  water. 

j/g  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices  and  butter  them.  Simmer 
the  berries,  sugar,  water,  and  nutmeg  together  for  ten 
minutes.  Butter  a  mould  or  a  large  bowl  and  spread  a 
layer  of  the  buttered  bread  in  it.  Cover  this  with  berries 
and  juice  ;  then  put  in  another  layer  of  bread.  Continue 
this  until  all  the  materials  are  used,  having  the  last  layer 
one  of  fruit.  Let  the  pudding  stand  for  two  hours,  and 
then  steam  for  one  hour  and  half.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
turn  into  a  pudding  dish  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

Baker's  bread  is  the  best  for  this  dish. 

Rhubarb  Pudding. 


l/2  a  five-cent  loaf  of  baker's  bread. 
y2    pint   of    rhubarb,  generous 
measure. 


\y2  gills  of  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


Have  the  butter  soft.  Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices,  and 
spread  the  butter  on  it ;  then  dip  it  in  cold  water.  Have 
the  rhubarb  peeled  and  cut  in  thin  slices  before  measuring. 
Put  a  layer  of  bread  in  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
rhubarb.  Sprinkle  half  the  sugar  over  this  \  then  put  in 
another  layer  of  bread,  rhubarb,  and  sugar.  Finish  with  a 
layer  of  bread.    Cover  the  dish  and  steam  for  one  hour; 


268      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


then  take  the  dish  from  the  steamer,  remove  the  cover,  and 
bake  the  pudding  until  it  turns  a  delicate  brown,  —  about 
twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

Jam  Pudding. 

Use  the  same  materials  as  are  given  in  the  first  rule  for 
blueberry  pudding  ;  omitting,  of  course,  the  berries,  and  stir- 
ring into  the  butter,  sugar,  and  egg  mixture  one  gill  of  any 
kind  of  jam. 

Steamed  Batter  Pudding. 

y2  pint  of  milk.  2  eggs. 

1  gill  of  flour.  %  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Have  a  covered  mould  well  buttered.  Beat  the  eggs  till 
light,  and  add  the  milk  and  salt  to  them.  Pour  half  this 
mixture  on  the  flour,  and  beat  well.  When  the  batter  is 
smooth,  beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  liquid  mixture  and 
pour  the  batter  into  the  mould.  Cover  closely  and  steam 
for  one  hour.  Serve  with  a  hot  sauce.  This  pudding 
should  be  turned  out  of  the  mould  very  carefully,  and 
served  on  a  hot  dish. 


Quiver  Pudding. 


3  gills  of  stale  bread. 
3  gills  of  milk. 
2  eggs. 

1  gill  of  stoned  raisins. 


1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 


Beat  together  the  eggs,  sugar,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Use  a 
spoon  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Butter  a  quart  mould. 
Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices  and  put  a  layer  in  the  mould. 
Sprinkle  some  of  the  raisins  over  this,  then  put  in  another 
layer  of  bread.  Continue  until  all  the  bread  and  fruit  have 
been  used.  Pour  the  custard  on  this,  one  spoonful  at  a 
time.    Cover,  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  three  or  four 


PUDDINGS. 


269 


hours.  Steam  for  one  hour,  and  turn  out  on  a  warm  dish. 
Serve  with  either  vanilla,  creamy,  or  golden  sauce. 


Plum  Pudding. 


3  gills  of  boiling  milk. 

x/2  pint  of  fine  cracker  crumbs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  gill  of  stoned  raisins. 

1  gill  of  currants. 


1  tablespoonful  of  shredded  citron. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg, 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

2  eggs. 


Pour  the  milk  on  the  cracker  crumbs  and  spice.  Add 
the  butter,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Beat  together  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar.  Add  this  and  the  fruit  to  the 
cooled  mixture.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  stir  them  into  the  pudding.  Turn  the  batter  into  a 
well  buttered  mould  ;  then  cover  closely  and  steam  for  five 
hours.    Serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

This  rule  may  be  doubled,  making  two  small  puddings, 
one  of  which  can  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  for  a  couple  of 
weeks.    Steam  it  at  least  an  hour  when  it  is  warmed  up. 


Chester  Pudding. 


1  gill  of  molasses. 
1  gill  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine. 
3  gills  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  raisins. 


Yz  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

teaspoonful  of  mace. 
]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 


Put  into  a  large  bowl  the  suet,  molasses,  spice,  lemon, 
and  raisins,  and  beat  together  for  one  minute.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  add  the  milk  to  the  ingredients 
in  the  bowl.  Beat  well,  and  then  add  the  flour.  Beat  for 
three  minutes,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Steam  for  five  hours,  and  serve  hot  with  wine  sauce  or  any 
rich  sauce. 


270     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Wayne  Pudding. 


x/2  pint  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  molasses. 

1  gill  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


%  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 


1  gill  of  stoned  raisins. 
1  gill  of  stoned  currants, 


1  egg. 


y2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  beat  into  it  the  molasses, 
spice,  and  salt.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Beat  the 
egg  till  light,  and  beat  it  into  the  butter  and  molasses. 
Now  add  the  milk  and  soda.  Add  the  flour  next,  and 
finally  the  fruit,  beating  the  mixture  well.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered mould  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  a  hot 
liquid  sauce. 


This  is  made  the  same  as  Wayne  pudding,  substituting 
prunes,  dates,  and  figs  for  the  currants  and  raisins.  These 
fruits  must  be  washed,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Use  half 
a  pint  of  the  mixed  fruit. 


Sift  the  graham  into  a  bowl.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  the  milk.  Add  to  this  the  remainder  of 
the  milk,  and  the  molasses  and  salt.  Stir  well,  and  pour 
upon  the  graham.  Beat  the  butter  vigorously  for  five  min- 
utes ;  then  stir  in  the  raisins.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a 
buttered  mould,  which  should  then  be  covered  and  placed 
in  the  steamer.  Cook  for  four  hours.  Serve  with  golden 
or  creamy  sauce. 


Turkish  Pudding. 


Graham  Pudding. 


3  gills  of  graham. 

1  gill  of  sweet  milk. 

1  gill  of  stoned  and  chopped  rai- 


x/2  gill  of  molasses. 
x/i  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


sins. 


PUDDINGS. 


271 


Steamed  Indian  Pudding. 

1  cupful  of  granulated  corn  meal.    %,  cupful  of  molasses. 

y2  cupful  of  sour  milk.  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

l/z  cupful  of  chopped  suet.  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mix  the  suet,  molasses,  and  salt  together.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Add  to  the  sour 
milk,  and  stir  into  the  other  ingredients.  Now  add  the 
meal,  and  beat  well.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  well  buttered 
mould,  and  steam  for  four  hours.  Serve  with  molasses 
sauce. 

Steamed  Indian  Berry  Pudding. 

When  blueberries  and  blackberries  are  in  season  add  half 
a  pint  of  either  kind  of  berries  to  the  batter  for  steamed 
Indian  pudding,  and  steam  and  serve  as  directed  above 

Steamed  Indian  and  i^pple  Pudding. 

Make  the  batter  as  directed  for  steamed  Indian  pudding, 
and  add  to  it  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  pared  and  sliced  apples. 
Steam  and  serve  the  same  as  the  plain  Indian  pudding. 


Baked  Indian  Pudding. 


3  pints  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal. 

1  gill  of  molasses. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
y3  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Boil  one  pint  of  the  milk,  and  pour  gradually  upon  the 
meal,  stirring  all  the  time.  Turn  the  mixture  into  the 
double-boiler  and  cook  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
molasses,  butter,  salt,  and  the  quart  of  cold  milk.  Add  the 
milk  gradually,  beating  well.  Pour  the  mixture  into  an 
earthen  pudding  dish  that  will  just  hold  it,  and  bake  in  a 
very  slow  oven  for  four  hours.    When  it  has  been  cooking 


272        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 

for  one  hour,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  cover 
with  an  earthen  plate.  This  would  not  be  essential  in  a 
large  pudding,  but  a  small  one  dries  up  in  the  long  cooking 
unless  these  precautions  be  taken.  The  pudding  will  be 
spoiled  if  the  oven  be  hot  enough  to  make  it  bubble. 


Mock  Indian  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk.  i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice.  y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
I  gill  of  molasses.  X  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  and  mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients  \ 
using,  however,  only  half  the  butter.  Turn  into  an  earthen 
dish  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  the  first 
hour  add  the  second  half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  stir 
well.    Serve  with  cream. 


Bread  Pudding. 


}4  pint  of  stale  bread. 

i  pint  of  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 


X  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  egg. 


Break  the  bread  into  small  bits  and  measure  it  lightly. 
Let  it  soak  in  the  milk,  in  a  cool  place,  for  two  or  three 
hours ;  then  mash  it  with  a  spoon.  Beat  the  sugar,  salt, 
and  egg  together,  and  stir  into  the  bread  and  milk.  Pour 
into  a  small  pudding  dish  and  place  the  dish  in  a  larger  tin 
dish  in  which  there  is  warm  water  enough  to  come  within 
one  inch  of  the  top  of  the  pudding  dish.  Place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  and  bake  for  about  thirty-five  minutes.  Serve  with 
vanilla  or  creamy  sauce. 


Cake  Pudding. 


Put  any  kind  of  stale  cake  on  a  plate  and  in  the  steamer, 
and  steam  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 


PUDDINGS. 


273 


Sponge  Pudding. 


1  egg. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

1  generous  gill  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 


1  heaped  teaspoonful  of  baking 

powder. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


Beat  the  egg  till  light ;  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  for  five 
minutes  ;  then  add  the  water,  salt,  and  flavor,  and  finally 
the  flour,  with  which  the  baking  powder  should  be  mixed. 
Turn  into  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 

The  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted. 


Cottage  Pudding. 


y2  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

1  gill  of  milk. 

1  gill  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  heaped  teaspoonful  of  baking 

powder. 
1  egg. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  ;  then  beat  the  sugar  into  it. 
Next  add  the  unbeaten  egg  and  beat  vigorously  for  three  or 
four  minutes.  Add  the  salt  and  milk,  and  then  the  flour, 
with  which  should  be  mixed  the  baking  powder.  Beat  for 
a  few  seconds,  and,  turning  the  batter  into  a  small,  well 
buttered  pudding  dish,  bake  for  about  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 

The  measure  of  flour  is  for  pastry  flour. 

If  the  new-process  flour  be  used,  measure  a  very  scant 
half-pint. 

Lemon  Pudding. 


2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  gran- 

ulated sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

3  rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  corn 

starch. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonf tils  of  milk. 
1  gill  of  water. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  half 

a  lemon. 
1  egg. 


i3 


274      MIS$  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Mix  the  corn  starch  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 
Put  the  remainder  of  the  water  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  to 
boil.  Stir  the  mixed  com  starch  into  this  and  cook  fof 
five  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  salt  and 
the  lemon ;  reserving  half  a  teaspoonful,  however.  Beat 
the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the 
granulated  sugar,  then  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  and  finally  the 
milk.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  cooked  ingredients,  and, 
pouring  all  into  a  pudding  dish  that  will  hold  about  a 
pint,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Let 
it  cool  for  ten  minutes. 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  beat 
into  it  the  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  re- 
served half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  this 
meringue  on  the  pudding  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes 
with  the  oven  door  open.    Serve  this  pudding  very  cold. 


Cream  Pudding'. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  fruit  juice,  or 

i  tablespoonful  of  wine. 


Y$  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  gill  of  granulated  sugar. 

2  eggs. 


Reserve  half  a  gill  of  milk  and  put  the  remainder  on  the 
fire,  in  the  double-boiler.     Mix  the  flour  and  salt  to  a 

smooth  paste,  with  the 
cold  milk.  Add  to  this 
mixture  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Cook  for 
eight  minutes,  stirring 
three  times.  Turn  the  hot 
mixture  into  the  pudding 
dish  and  spread  the  sugar 
over  it.  Wet  the  sugar  with  the  wine  or  fruit  juice,  and 
set  away  to  cool.    The  sugar  and  fruit  juice  make  the  sauce. 


DOUBLE-BOILER. 


PUDDINGS. 


275 


Chocolate  Pudding. 


I  egg. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 

1  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


1/l  teasponnful  of  salt. 

^£  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

i  ounce  of  shaved  chocolate  (one 
of  the  squares  in  a  half- 
pound  cake  of  chocolate). 


Reserve  half  a  gill  of  milk  and  put  the  remainder  on  the 
fire,  in  the  double-boiler.  Mix  the  cold  milk  with  the  corn 
starch  and  salt.  Beat  the  egg  well  and  add  to  the  corn 
starch  mixture.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  beat 
well.  Put  the  shaved  chocolate,  sugar,  and  boiling  water 
in  a  small  frying-pan  and  set  over  a  hot  fire.  Stir  until  the 
mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy ;  then  beat  this  into  the  pud- 
ding, and  cook  for  two  minutes  longer.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  vanilla.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water  and  turn 
the  pudding  into  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  At  serving  time  turn 
out  on  a  fiat  dish  and  surround  with  whipped  cream  ;  or 
serve  with  plain  cream  and  sugar.  A  soft  custard,  flavored 
with  vanilla,  makes  a  good  sauce  for  this  pudding. 


Chocolate  Pudding,  No.  2. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 
1  gill  of  granulated  sugar. 

1  ounce  of  chocolate. 

2  eggs. 


2    tablespoonfuls    of  powdered 
sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water. 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Reserve  one  gill  of  the  milk  and  put  the  remainder  on 
the  fire,  in  the  double-boiler.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well,  and  add  to  them  the  sugar  and  salt.  Mix  the  milk  with 
the  corn  starch  and  add  this  to  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs. 
Shave  the  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  pan  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar  and  one  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  a  hot 
fire  until  smooth  and  glossy,  and  stir  this  mixture  into  the 
hot  milk.    Now  add  the  corn  starch  mixture  and  stir  well. 


276     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Cook  for  eight  minutes,  stirring  often.  Add  half  the 
vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  pudding  dish.  Let  it  stand  in  a 
cool  place  for  ten  minutes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  then 
gradually  beat  into  them  the  powdered  sugar  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  vanilla.  Cover  the  pudding  with  this 
meringue  and  place  in  the  oven.  Cook  for  twelve  minutes 
with  the  oven  door  open.    Serve  cold. 

Caramel  Pudding. 


y2  pint  of  brown  sugar. 

pint  of  water. 
X  of  a  box  of  gelatine. 


4  egg  whites. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  gill  of  cold  water  for  two  hours. 
Put  the  sugar  and  the  other  gill  of  water  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan and  set  on  the  fire.  Boil  until  the  mixture  becomes 
a  thick  syrup.  Now  add  the  gelatine  and  vanilla,  and  heat 
again  to  boiling  point. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth.  Pour 
the  hot  syrup  slowly  on  the  eggs,  beating  briskly  all  the 
time.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  mould,  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  firm,  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  with 
a  custard  sauce. 


Ctistard  Sauce. 


3  gills  of  milk. 

4  egg  yolks. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


y%  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 


Make  this  sauce  as  directed  for  soft  custard.  (See 
Sweets,  page  289.)    Serve  it  cold. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. 


2  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  I  1  pint  of  milk. 

starch.  |  l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


PUDDINGS. 


2/7 


Reserve  one  gill  of  milk  and  put  the  remainder  on  the 
fire,  in  the  double-boiler.  Mix  the  milk  with  the  corn  starch 
and  salt,  and  stir  into  the  milk  when  it  boils.  Beat  well, 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  often ;  then  turn  into 
a  pudding  dish,  and  let  it  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  an  egg  or  fruit  sauce. 


Custard  Pudding. 


\yz  pints  of  milk. 

3  eggs. 

Yi  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
l/b  of  a  nutmeg,  grated. 


Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt. 
Beat  well  with  a  spoon,  —  never  with  an  egg  beater,  as 
they  must  not  be  light.  Add  the  milk  to  them  and  turn 
into  a  small  pudding  dish.  Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
warm  water  and  set  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  Bake  the 
pudding  until  firm  in  the  centre.  It  should  take  not  less 
than  half  an  hour ;  better  longer,  as  the  slower  the  custard 
cooks  the  smoother  and  richer  it  will  be.  The  oven  must 
not  be  hot  enough  to  have  the  water  boil.  Test  the  cus- 
tard by  running  a  knife  down  the  centre.  If  it  comes  out 
clean  the  custard  is  done  ;  but  if  a  milky  substance  clings  to 
it,  cook  the  pudding  a  little  longer.  The  flavor  may  be  cin- 
namon, lemon,  or  anything  else  one  chooses. 


Cocoanut  Pudding. 

y2  pint  of  milk.  I  ^teaspoonful  of  salt. 

y2  pint  of  stale  sponge  cake.  2  eggs. 

i  gill  of  grated  cocoanut.  Grated   yellow  rind  of    half  a 

i  gill  of  sugar.  |  lemon. 

Soak  the  cake  in  the  milk  for  one  hour.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  into  them  the  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  cake  and 
milk.    Add  the  salt,  lemon  rind,  and  cocoanut.    Turn  the 


278      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  slowly  for 
about  thirty-five  minutes.    Serve  cold. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

1  gill  of  flake  or  pearl  tapioca. 

\]/2  pints  of  milk. 

yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  tapioca  and  let  it  soak  over  night  in  one  pint 
of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  add 
the  milk.  Cook  for  one  hour  in  the  double-boiler.  Stir 
in  the  salt,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour  longer.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream,  or  with  preserved  fruit. 

The  hot  pudding  may  be  turned  into  a  mould  which  has 
been  dipped  in  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  several  hours  ;  then  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish,  and  pour 
preserved  fruit  around  it. 

Oatmeal  Pudding. 

t  gill  of  oatmeal.  3  gills  of  water. 

yz  gill  of  raisins.  l/2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  water  and  raisins  in  a  stewpan ;  cover,  and  sim- 
mer for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time  stir  in  the 
salt  and  oatmeal.  Boil  rapidly  for  one  minute  \  then  set 
the  stewpan  back  where  the  contents  will  only  simmer  for 
one  hour.  Rinse  a  mould  or  bowl  in  cold  water  and  turn 
the  pudding  into  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

Boiled  Rice  Pudding. 

1  gill  of  rice. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  in  three  waters,  rubbing  it  well  between 
the  hands.  Put  it  on  the  fire  in  one  pint  of  cold  watery 
and  let  it  cook  for  ten  minutes.    Drain  off  the  water  and 


PUDDINGS. 


279 


add  the  salt  and  milk ;  then  cook  in  the  double-boiler  for 
two  hours.  Do  not  stir  it  while  it  is  cooking.  Serve  hot 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

If  raisins  be  liked  mix  a  gill  of  them  with  the  rice  when 
the  milk  is  added. 


Cook  the  rice  the  same  as  for  boiled  rice  pudding.  Wet 
small  custard  cups  or  after-dinner  coffee  cups  in  cold  water 
and  fill  them  with  the  hot  pudding.  Let  them  stand  where 
they  will  keep  warm  until  serving  time ;  then  turn  them  out 
on  a  flat  dish  and  put  a  bit  of  bright  jelly  on  top  of  each 
ball.    Serve  with  soft  custard. 

The  rice  ball  must  be  hot  and  the  custard  cold. 


W  ash  the  rice  and  soak  it  in  cold  water  for  an  hour. 
Pour  off  this  water  and  put  the  rice  on  the  fire  in  a  pint 
of  cold  water.  When  this  boils,  drain  off  the  water  and  add 
a  pint  of  milk.  Cook  in  the  double-boiler  for  an  hour. 
Mix  the  corn  starch  with  a  gill  of  cold  milk  and  add  to 
the  rice  mixture.  Let  this  cook  ten  minutes  longer ;  then 
add  the  sugar,  salt,  the  remainder  of  the  cold  milk,  and  the 
flavor,  which  may  be  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  an  orange 
or  lemon,  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  If  cinnamon  be  liked,  a  piece 
about  four  inches  long  may  be  cooked  with  the  rice  and 
milk,  and  be  removed  when  the  sugar  and  salt  are  added. 
Stir  the  mixture  well,  and  turn  into  a  pudding  dish.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour,  and  put  away  to  cool. 
This  pudding  does  not  require  a  sauce. 


Rice  Balls. 


Cold  Rice  Pudding. 


3  tablespoonfuis  of  rice. 
3  tablespoonfuis  of  sugar. 
1    level    tablespoonfui   of  corn 


l/z  teaspoonfnl  salt. 
\l/z  pints  of  milk. 
Flavor  to  taste. 


starch. 


280        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


English  Rice  Pudding. 

I  gill  of  chopped  suet.  i  i  level  teaspoontul  of  salt. 

I  gill  of  stoned  raisins.  I  gill  of  sugar. 

I  heaped  gill  of  rice.  I  I  quart  of  milk. 

Wash  the  rice,  and  mix  it  with  the  suet,  sugar,  raisins, 
and  salt.  Add  one  pint  of  the  milk ;  then  place  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  stir  in  the  second  pint  of  milk,  and  continue  cook- 
ing slowly  for  two  hours.    Serve  hot. 

Baked  Rice  Pudding. 

I  gill  of  rice.  i  yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I  quart  of  milk.  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  gill  of  raisins.  |  1  tablcspoonf  ul  of  cinnamon. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  in  a  pudding  dish  with  the  sugar, 
salt,  cinnamon,  raisins,  and  a  pint  of  the  milk.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  for  one  hour,  stirring  it  twite  in  that  time.  Add 
the  second  pint  of  milk  and  cook  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. 
Serve  hot.    This  pudding  does  not  require  a  sauce. 

Hot  Farina  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

3  level  tablespoonfuls  of  farina. 
l/2  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Put  the  milk  in  the  double-boiler.  Measure  the  farina 
into  a  cup.  When  the  milk  boils,  add  the  salt,  and,  with  a 
tablespoon,  stir  the  milk  rapidly.  When  it  is  well  in  motion 
begin  to  sprinkle  in  the  farina,  stirring  all  the  while.  Beat 
the  mixture  well,  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

Cold  Farina  Pudding. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  farina. 
^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 


PUDDINGS. 


28l 


Put  the  milk  in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the  fire. 
When  it  boils,  stir  rapidly  until  all  parts  are  in  motion. 
Continue  the  stirring,  and  sprinkle  in  the  farina.  Now  add 
the  salt,  and  cook  for  forty  minutes  ;  then  beat  in  the  sugar 
and  flavor.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water  and  turn  the  hot 
mixture  into  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  any  kind  of  preserved  fruit. 

Farina  Fruit  Pudding. 

Make  the  pudding  the  same  as  for  cold  farina,  omitting 
the  sugar  and  flavor.  When  it  is  cooked,  add  to  it  one 
gill  of  preserved  jelly  or  marmalade.  Turn  into  the  mould 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream 
and  sugar,  or  with  soft  custard. 

Rose  Pudding. 

%  package  of  pink  gelatine,  gen-  1  gill  of  cold  water,  scant. 

erous  measure.  1  gill  of  sugar. 

I  gill  of  sherry.  I  lemon. 
1  gill  of  boiling  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours ; 
then  pour  the  boiling  water  on  it,  keeping  it  in  the  same 
bowl  in  which  it  has  been  soaked.  Add  the  sugar,  and 
stir  until  the  sugar  and  gelatine  are  dissolved.  Now  put 
111  the  wine  and  lemon  juice.  Strain  the  liquid  into  a  large 
bowl  and  let  it  stand  until  cold  ;  then  place  the  bowl  in  a 
p  in  and  surround  it  with  water  and  ice.  As  soon  as  the 
liquid  begins  to  thicken,  beat  it  with  a  beater  or  a  whisk 
until  it  is  light  and  spongy.  It  will  then  be  of  a  rose-pink 
color.  Rinse  a  mould  in  cold  water  and  pour  the  pudding 
into  it.  Set  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hour  or  more.  At 
serving  time  dip  the  mould  in  tepid  water,  to  loosen  the 
pudding.  Wipe  the  outside  of  the  mould  and  see  to  it  that 
the  pudding  comes  away  from  the  sides.  Turn  out  on  a 
flat  dish  and  serve  with  a  custard  sauce  in  a  separate  dish ; 


282        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


or,  this  pudding  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream  heaped 
around  it ;  in  which  case  the  custard  is,  of  course,  omitted. 

Uncolored  gelatine  may  be  used,  if  more  convenient, 
and  the  pudding  be  colored  with  liquid  cochineal. 


Snow  Pudding. 

%  box  of  gelatine.  Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Ys  gill  of  cold  water.  y2  pint  of  sugar. 

y2  pint  (scant)  of  boiling  water.      Whites  of  two  eggs. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Pout 
upon  this  the  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine 
is  dissolved  ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  stirring 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  to  cool  ■  ice  water  is  the  best.  Stir  frequently ;  and 
when  it  begins  to  congeal,  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  beat  constantly  until  the  mixture  becomes  a  thick, 
white  sponge  that  will  just  pour.  Immediately  pour  it  into 
a  mould  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  set  away 
to  become  firm. 

At  serving  time  dip  the  mould  in  tepid  water  and  turn 
the  pudding  out  on  a  flat  dish.  Pour  the  sauce  around 
it,  or  serve  in  a  separate  dish.  Make  the  sauce  by  the  rule 
for  custard  sauce  for  snow  blancmange. 


Snow  Pudding,  No.  2. 


l/2  pint  of  boiling  water. 

]/2  gill  of  cold  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice. 

Whites  of  two  eggs. 


Put  the  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  boiling  water  in  a  small 
saucepan,  —  not  tin,  —  and  set  on  the  fire.  Mix  the  cold 
water  with  the  corn  starch  and  stir  into  the  boiling  liquid. 
Put  the  saucepan  in  another  pan  of  boiling  water,  and,  after 
covering,  cook  the  mixture  for  ten  minutes.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  and  stir  them  into 


PUDDINGS. 


2«3 


the  cooked  corn  starch.  Wet  a  mould  in  cold  water  and 
turn  the  mixture  into  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  a 
custard  sauce  made  the  same  as  for  snow  blancmange. 


Orange  Snow  Pudding. 


]i  box  of  gelatine. 
y2  gill  of  cold  water, 
i  gill  of  boiling  water. 


\}i  gills  of  orange  juice. 
Whites  of  two  eggs. 


Make  this  pudding  the  same  as  snow  pudding  No.  i, 
and  serve  with  the  same  kind  of  sauce. 


Snow  Blancmange. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 

starch. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Whites  of  two  eggs. 
2/i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  or  %  tea- 
spoonful  of  almond. 


Reserve  one  gill  of  the  milk,  and,  putting  the  remainder 
in  the  double-boiler,  set  it  on  the  fire.  Mix  the  cold  milk 
with  the  corn-starch.  When  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  corn 
starch  and  cold  milk.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  beat 
well.  Replace  the  cover  of  the  boiler  and  cook  the  pud- 
ding for  ten  minutes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  dry  froth.  Add  the 
flavor  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  the  pudding,  stirring 
gently,  but  mixing  well.  Dip  a  mould  in  cold  water  and 
turn  the  pudding  into  it.  Set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with 
custard  sauce  or  with  sugar  and  cream. 


Custard  Sauce. 


i  pint  of  milk. 

i  whole  egg  and  two  yolks. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


]4,  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Flavor  the  same   as    used  for 
pudding. 


Beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt  together.  Add  the  milk, 
and,  putting  the  sauce  in  the  double-boiler,  set  it  on  the 


284     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

fire.  Stir  all  the  time  until  the  custard  thickens.  It  will 
take  about  five  minutes  if  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  was 
boiling  when  the  upper  boiler  with  its  contents  was  put  on 
the  fire.    Cool,  and  add  the  flavor. 

PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Wine  Sauce. 

1  gill  of  powdered  sugar.  I  3  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  j  3  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and  gradually  beat  into  it  the 
powdered  sugar.  When  this  mixture  becomes  light  and 
frothy,  beat  in  the  wine,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time.  When 
all  the  wine  has  been  beaten  in,  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  beating  all  the 
time.  Take  the  bowl  from  the  hot  water  immediately,  and 
the  sauce  will  be  ready  to  use. 

Foaming  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  I  White  of  one  egg. 

1  gill  of  powdered  sugar.  |  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Gradually  beat  into  it  the 
powdered  sugar.  Now  add  the  well  beaten  white  of  the 
egg,  and  beat  for  two  minutes  longer.  Add  the  wine,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  and  continue  beating  until  the  mixture 
is  perfectly  smooth.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  for  three  minutes.    Serve  in  a  hot  bowl. 

Creamy  Sauce. 

1  gill  of  powdered  sugar.  I  2  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

2  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  |  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  in  the 
powdered  sugar.    Now  beat  in  the  wine,  a  little  at  a  time. 


PUDDINGS. 


285 


Next  add  the  milk,  half  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beating  until 
perfectly  smooth.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
and  stir  the  sauce  for  about  two  minutes. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  may  be  substituted  for  the 
wine. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

I  gill  of  jelly  or  preserves. 
White  of  one  egg. 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  gradually 
beat  into  it  the  jelly  or  fruit. 


Egg  Sauce. 


1  gill  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 


a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  lemon, 
or  orange  extract. 


Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  gradually 
beat  into  it  the  powdered  sugar.  Now  add  the  yolk  of  the 
egg,  the  flavor,  and  the  milk.    Serve  at  once. 


Vinegar  Sauce. 

1  cupful  of  sugar.  %  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  level  tablespoonful  of  flour.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water.  %  nutmeg,  grated. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  the  boiling 
water  upon  the  mixture.  Add  the  salt,  butter,  nutmeg,  and 
vinegar,  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 


Molasses  Sauce. 

1  gill  of  molasses.  1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

t  gill  of  sugar.  xi  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

I  gill  of  water.  I  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  or 

1  teaspoonful  of  flour.  ]/z  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 


286      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
upon  it.  Add  the  molasses,  and  place  on  the  range.  Sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  boil 
up  once  and  serve. 

Clear  Sauce. 

I  gill  of  water. 
I  gill  of  sugar. 
Flavor. 

Put  the  water  and  sugar  in  a  small  saucepan  and  set  on 
the  fire.  Simmer  for  twelve  minutes,  and  add  any  flavor 
you  wish.    If  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls. 

Clear  Lemon  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  gill  of  sugar,  a  gill  and  a  half  of 
water,  a  thin  slice  of  the  yellow  rind  of  lemon,  and  a  slight 
grating  of  nutmeg.  Cook  gently  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Cinnamon  Sauce. 


i  level  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Yl  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
cupful  of  sugar. 


i  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
A  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  about 
three  inches  long. 


Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together  and  pour  the  boilmg 
water  upon  the  mixture,  stirring  all  the  while.  Add  *.he 
cinnamon,  and  place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Simmer 
for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook 
for  two  minutes  longer.    Strain  and  serve. 

Nutmeg  Sauce. 


I  gill  of  su^rar. 

I  gill  of  boiling  water. 

I  teaspoonful  of  flour. 


%  of  a  nutmeg,  grated, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
i  saltspoonful  of  salt 


PUDDINGS. 


287 


Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  together,  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  on  them.  Place  on  the  fire,  and  stir  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  boil.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes  j  then  add 
the  salt  and  butter.  Boil  up  once  and  serve.  Any  flavor 
may  be  substituted  for  the  nutmeg. 

This  is  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  useful  pudding 
sauces  made. 

Italian  Sauce. 

1  gill  of  sugar.  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

1  gill  of  water.  A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 
A  slight  grating  of  the  yellow   1  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

rind  of  a  lemon.  Whites  of  two  eggs. 

Boil  the  sugar,  water,  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  lemon  for 
fifteen  minutes.  When  this  mixture  has  been  boiling  for 
ten  minutes,  begin  to  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
dry  froth.  Add  the  butter  and  lemon  juice  to  the  boiling 
syrup ;  then,  when  all  boils  up,  pour  the  syrup  in  a  thin 
stream  on  the  whites  of  the  egg,  beating  constantly.  Beat 
for  two  minutes  and  the  sauce  will  be  ready  to  serve.  It  is 
particularly  good  for  any  kind  of  moist,  steamed,  or  baked 
pudding. 

Golden  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  I  1  egg. 

1  gill  of  powdered  sugar.  |  ^  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Gradually  beat  into  it  the 
powdered  sugar.  Next  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  and  beat 
well.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into 
the  sauce.  Add  the  flavor.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  cook  for  four  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  wine  may  be  substituted  for  the 
vanilla. 


288        MISS  PARLORS  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Hot  Cream  Sauce. 


y2  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch. 


i  egg. 


i  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract. 

i  cupful  of  boiling  milk  or  cream. 


Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  ;  then  gradu- 
ally beat  into  it  the  powdered  sugar  and  corn  starch.  Next 
add  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  beat  well.  Pour  upon  this  the 
cupful  of  boiling  milk,  and  place  on  the  fire.  Stir  until  it 
boils,  then  add  the  butter  and  vanilla,  and  serve.  Any 
other  flavor  may  be  substituted  for  the  vanilla. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


SWEETS. 
Soft  Custard. 


1  pint  of  milk. 

2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

3  eggs. 


%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Flavor. 


Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  for  six  minutes,  and 
add  a  gill  of  cold  milk  to  them.  Put  the  remainder  of  the 
milk  in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  this 
milk  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  it  over  the  ingre- 
dients in  the  bowl,  and  stir  well.  Turn  the  mixture  into 
the  double-boiler,  and,  placing  it  on  the  fire,  cook,  stirring 
all  the  while,  until  the  custard  will  coat  the  spoon.  It  will 
take  about  five  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  instantly 
turn  into  the  cold  bowl.  Stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
cool.  Should  it  grow  thin  as  it  cools,  you  may  know  that 
it  has  not  cooked  enough ;  in  which  case  it  should  be  re- 
turned to  the  double-boiler  and  cooked  a  little  longer.  If, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  begins  to  look  slightly  curdled  on  tak- 
ing it  from  the  fire,  it  has  cooked  too  much.  In  that  case, 
pour  it  back  and  forth  from  one  bowl  to  another,  holding 
the  bowl  from  which  it  is  poured  quite  high,  and  the  custard 
will  become  smooth  again,  unless  it  be  very  much  overdone. 

Soft  custard  is  one  of  the  easiest  dishes  for  dessert  that 
one  can  make,  and  one  of  the  most  useful ;  but  only  expe- 
rience will  enable  one  to  detect  the  changes  in  the  cooking 
mixture.  It  is  impossible  to  give  exact  time.  When  eggs 
are  cheap  allow  four ;  for  this  dish  is  improved  by  the  use 
of  a  generous  number. 

19 


290      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


The  yolks  of  the  eggs  make  a  richer  custard  than  when 
the  whole  egg  is  used.  If  the  whites  be  required  for  any 
other  purpose,  you  may  use  even  half  a  dozen  yolks. 


Make  these  the  same  as  the  custard  pudding,  and  pom 
into  four  custard  cups.  Place  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  warm 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the  centre. 


Make  the  same  as  the  baked  custards,  but  steam  over 
boiling  water  until  firm  in  the  centre. 


i  large  egg. 

Wash  the  tapioca  in  cold  water ;  then  put  it  in  a  bowl 
with  the  cupful  of  cold  water  and  soak  it  over  night.  In 
the  morning  put  the  milk  in  a  double-boiler  and  set  on  the 
fire.  Beat  together  the  sugar,  eggs,  and  salt.  Drain  off  any 
water  the  tapioca  may  have  absorbed.  Add  the  tapioca  to 
the  eggs  and  sugar,  and,  as  soon  as  the  milk  boils,  stir  in 
this  mixture.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  vanilla  extract.  Pour  into  a 
bowl  and  set  away  to  cool.  At  serving  time  pour  the  pud- 
ding into  a  glass  dish.    It  should  be  icy  cold. 


Baked  Cup  Custards. 


Steamed  Cup  Custards. 


Tapioca  Custard. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca, 
i  cupful  of  cold  water. 
I  pint  of  milk. 


i  gill  of  sugar. 

]/2  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Rennet  Custard. 


1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
}i  of  a  nutmeg. 


i  tablespoonful  of  rennet  wine,  or 
j4  tablespoonful  of  essence 
of  rennet. 


SWEETS. 


291 


Make  the  milk  blood-warm,  and  then  add  the  sugar  and 
rennet  wine,  stirring  only  enough  to  mix  the  ingredients. 
Pour  this  into  glass  custard  cups,  and  grate  the  nutmeg  over 
the  custards.  Let  them  stand  in  a  warm  room  until  the  mix- 
ture becomes  firm  j  then  set  in  a  cold  place  until  serving 
time. 

The  prepared  rennet,  which  can  be  bought  in  small 
bottles,  may  be  substituted  for  the  rennet  wine. 


Slip 

1  pint  of  milk.  I  1  tablespoonful  of  rennet  wine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  |  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry. 

Have  the  milk  blood-warm,  —  about  one  hundred  degrees. 
Flavor  it,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Now  add  the  rennet  wine,  and  stir  gently,  to  mix 
it.  Let  the  dish  stand  in  the  warm  room  until  the  mixture 
has  stiffened ;  then  place  it  in  the  refrigerator,  or  in  a  cold 
room,  until  the  time  to  serve.  The  slip  must  not  be  dis- 
turbed until  you  are  ready  to  serve  it  on  the  table,  as  it 
may  separate  into  curds  and  whey  when  once  broken. 


Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 


T  pint  of  strawberries. 

1  '/  ill  of  sugar. 

y2  gill  of  boiling  water. 


1  gill  of  cold  water,  scant  measure. 
)^  package. of  gelatine. 
1  quart  of  whipped  cream. 


Pick  over  the  strawberries,  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  the 
sugar,  and  crush  well.  Let  them  stand  for  two  hours.  Soak 
the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Next  whip 
the  cream.  Rub  the  strawberries  and  sugar  through  a 
strainer  into  a  large  bowl.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the 
gelatine,  and  when  tins  is  dissolved,  add  it  to  the  strained 
strawberries.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  ice- water  and  let 
it  stand,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Immediately  add  the  whipped  cream,  stirring  it  in  gently. 


292       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Pour  the  cream  into  a  mould,  which  has  been  dipped  in 
cold  water,  and  set  away  to  harden.  At  serving  time  dip 
the  mould  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  the  cream  on  a  large  flat 
dish,  and  heap  whipped  cream  around  it.  One  pint  and  a 
half  of  cream  will  give  enough  whipped  cream  to  make  the 
dish  and  to  serve  with  it. 


Sea  Moss  Farina  Blancmange. 


i  pint  of  milk* 

i  even  teaspoonful  of  sea  moss 
farina. 


i  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
i  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
%  teaspoonful  of  flavor. 


Put  the  farina  in  a  bowl,  and  gradually  pour  the  milk 
over  it,  stirring  until  smooth.  Turn  into  the  double-boiler 
and  cook,  stirring  frequently,  until  the  mass  looks  white; 
then  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  flavor.  Rinse  a  mould  in  cold 
water,  and  turn  the  blancmange  into  it.  Set  away  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  It  should  have  three  or  four  hours  for 
this.    Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

Chocolate  Blancmange. 

Make  as  directed  for  the  sea  moss  farina.  While  it  is 
cooking  put  into  a  small  pan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  shaved 
chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  of  hot  water. 
Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy ;  then  stir  into 
the  hot  blancmange.  Pour  into  moulds  and  set  away  to 
harden. 

Moss  Blancmange. 


i  gill  of  Irish  moss. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


i  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon 
extract. 


Measure  the  moss  loosely.  Wash  it  and  pick  out  all  the 
pebbles  and  seaweed.  Continue  washing  it  until  every 
particle  of  sand  is  removed.  Put  it  in  the  double-boiler 
with  the  cold  milk,  and  place  on  the  fire.    Cook  for  twenty 


SWEETS. 


293 


minutes,  stirring  frequently  ;  then  add  the  salt,  and  strain 
into  a  bowl.  Now  add  the  sugar  and  flavor.  Rinse  a  bowl 
in  cold  water,  and,  after  turning  the  blancmange  into  it,  set 
it  away  to  harden.   Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 


Wine  Jelly. 


]/2  package  of  gelatine. 
l/2  pint  of  wine. 
1  pint  of  water. 


2  lemons. 

Yz  pint  of  sugar. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  cold  water  for  two  hours. 
Heat  the  remainder  of  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
pour  it  upon  the  soaked  gelatine.  Add  the  sugar,  lemon 
juice,  and  wine.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  until  the  liquid  is  clear.  Strain  through  a  napkin 
and  pour  into  moulds.     Set  away  to  harden. 


Cider  Jelly. 

yz   package   of   gelatine,   scant  1  y2  pint  of  sugar, 
measure.  |  1^  pints  of  cider. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  the  cider  for  two  hours. 
Heat  the  rest  of  the  cider  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  it 
on  the  soaked  gelatine.  Add  the  sugar,  and  place  the  bowl 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  until  the  liquid  is  clear  ;  then 
strain,  pour  into  a  mould,  and  set  away  to  harden. 


Lemon  Jelly. 

y2  package  of  gelatine.  y2  pint  of  sugar. 

1  gill  of  cold  water.  A  few  strips  of  the  thin  yellow 

1  gill  of  lemon  juice.  rind  of  a  lemon. 

1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  for  two  hours  in  the  cold  water.  Pour 
the  pint  of  boiling  water  on  the  lemon  rind  and  let  it  stand 
for  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time  place  on  the  fire  ; 
and  when  it  boils  pour  it  over  the  soaked  gelatine.   Now  add 


294       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


the  sugar,  and,  placing  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
stir  until  the  liquid  is  clear.  Strain  through  a  coarse  napkin, 
and,  turning  into  a  mould,  set  away  to  harden. 

In  hot  weather  be  generous  in  the  measure  of  gelatine. 

Orange  Jelly. 

yi.  a  package  of  gelatine.  yz  pint  of  sugar. 


Enough  oranges  to  yield  ^  pint 

of  juice. 
]/2  pint  of  boiling  water. 


The  juice  of  one  lemon. 
1  gill  of  cold  water. 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Squeeze 
the  oranges,  grating  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  one  into  the 
juice ;  but  be  careful  not  to  grate  off  any  of  the  white  skin. 
Add  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  soaked 
gelatine.  Add  the  sugar,  and  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Now  add  the  fruit  juice,  and  stir  until  the 
liquid  is  clear.  Strain  through  a  napkin  and  pour  into 
moulds.    Set  away  to  harden. 

Whipped  cream  is  a  desirable  addition  to  this  jelly  when 
it  is  served. 

Strawberry  Jelly. 

Make  in  the  same  way  as  the  orange  jelly,  using  half  a 
pint  of  strawberry  juice. 

Raspberry  Jelly. 

Make  in  the  same  way  as  orange  jelly,  using  raspberry 
juice. 

Blackberry  Jelly. 

Use  a  pint  of  blackberry  juice  and  half  a  pint  of  water, 
and  proceed  as  for  orange  jelly. 


Coffee  Jelly. 


y2  package  of  gelatine. 
I  gill  of  cold  water. 
I  gill  of  boiling  water. 


i  pint  of  hot  coffee. 

^  pint  of  sugar. 

I  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


SWEETS. 


295 


Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours  or  more. 
Pour  the  boiling  water  and  hot  coffee  on  this.  Add  the  sugar 
and  lemon  juice.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  then  strain  through 
a  coarse  napkin  and  turn  into  a  mould.  Set  away  in  a  col  1 
place  for  six  or  more  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  or 
with  plain  cream  and  sugar. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  FREEZING. 

The  mixture  to  be  frozen  should  be  icy  cold.  Put  it  in 
the  freezing  can,  and  place  this  in  position  in  the  wooden 
tub.  See  that  every  part  of 
the  freezer  is  properly  fas- 
tened, and  that  the  can  and 
beater  work  with  ease  when 
the  crank  is  turned.  Pound 
the  ice  in  a  bag  until  it  is 
almost  as  fine  as  snow.  Put 
a  layer  of  ice  in  the  freezer, 
having  it  come  about  one 
third  the  height  of  the  tin 
can.  Now  add  a  layer  of  salt, 
and,  with  a  wooden  paddle  or  a  flat  stick,  pack  the  salt  and 
ice  as  solid  as  possible.  Continue  this  until  the  salt  and 
ice  come  to  the  top  of  the  tin  can.  Work  the  freezer 
occasionally,  that  the  mixture  may  be  more  firmly  packed. 
Now  begin  to  turn  the  crank  slowly  for  ten  minutes ;  then 
turn  rapidly  for  ten  minutes  longer,  at  the  end  of  which 
time  the  mixture  should  be  frozen  into  a  light,  thick  mass. 
Take  off  the  cross-piece  ;  next  wipe  the  top  of  the  tin  can ; 
take  out  the  beater,  scrape  off  all  the  frozen  mixture,  and 
return  it  to  the  freezer.  Work  a  strong  iron  spoon  up  and 
down  in  the  cream  until  the  mass  becomes  compact  and 
light.  Place  a  piece  of  white  or  brown  paper  over  the 
can,  and  then  put  on  the  cover  and  replace  the  cross- 


296     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


piece.  Put  a  piece  of  woollen  carpet  over  the  tub  and  set 
away  in  a  cold  place. 

In  warm  weather  it  will  be  necessary  to  repack  the  cream. 
To  do  this,  place  the  freezer  on  the  edge  of  the  sink  and 
take  the  stopper  from  the  lower  part  of  the  tub.  This  will 
allow  the  water  to  pass  off.  Now  put  back  the  stopper  and 
pack  with  enough  salt  and  ice  to  come  over  the  cover  of  the 
tin  can. 

For  a  two-quart  freezer  allow  for  the  first  packing  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  salt  and  enough  ice  to  pack  hard  to  the 
top  of  the  wooden  tub.  Snow  may  be  used  in  winter.  If 
the  snow  should  be  very  dry,  sprinkle  a  little  water  over 
each  layer  before  it  is  packed  down.  Never  let  the  water 
off  while  freezing,  unless  there  be  danger  of  its  coming  up 
to  the  cover  of  the  tin  can.  In  that  case  take  out  the  stop- 
per and  let  off  only  enough  water  to  be  assured  that  the 
rest  cannot  get  into  the  tin  can.  The  water  is  essential  to 
the  freezing  of  the  cream. 

When  the  frozen  mixture  has  been  used,  and  the  ice  has 
melted,  pour  the  water  into  a  strainer,  and  save  the  salt  to 
use  when  freezing  again. 


Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 


3  gills  of  milk. 

1  pint  of  cream,  generous  measure. 
y2  pint  of  sugar. 


1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla. 


Set  the  milk  on  the  fire,  in  the  double-boiler.  Put  the 
flour,  half  the  sugar,  and  the  unbeaten  egg  in  a  bowl,  and 
beat  until  light.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  beating  frequently.  On  taking  from  the 
fire,  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  the  cream.  Beat 
well,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  add  the  flavor, 
and  freeze. 

Any  other  flavor  may  be  substituted  for  vanilla.  For 


SWEETS. 


coffee  ice  cream  use  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  extract  of 
coffee  ;  for  lemon,  three  fourths  of  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
extract. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Make  the  foundation  the  same  as  for  vanilla  cream. 
Shave  one  ounce  of  plain  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small 
pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  boiling  water.  Stir  this  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and 
glossy ;  then  stir  it  into  the  cooking  mixture.  Finish  with 
the  cream  and  sugar,  the  same  as  when  making  the  vanilla 
cream,  and  freeze. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream. 

Make  the  cream  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice  cream,  but 
flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  pistachio  extract  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  almond.  Color  with  one  eighth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  green  coloring  that  can  be  bought  of  first- 
class  grocers.    This  is  a  delicious  cream. 

Be  sure  to  get  the  flavor  and  coloring  of  a  reputable 
manufacturer. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. 

t)4  pints  of  cream.  |  3  gills  of  sugar. 

1  pint  of  fresh,  ripe  peaches.         |  y$  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract. 

After  paring  and  stoning  the  peaches,  mash  them  in  a 
bowl  with  the  sugar  and  let  them  stand  for  an  hour  or 
more  ;  then  rub  them  through  a  fine  strainer,  and  add  the 
cream  and  almond  to  them.  Freeze.  A  little  liquid 
cochineal  may  be  added  to  the  cream  to  give  it  color. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

1  quart  of  strawberries. 
3  gills  of  sugar. 
iyi  pints  of  cream. 


298      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

Hull  the  strawberries  and  mash  them  in  a  bowl  with  the 
sugar.  Let  them  stand  for  two  or  more  hours ;  then  rub 
through  a  strainer  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.  Add 
the  cream,  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

3  gills  of  sugar. 
1  y2  pints  of  water. 
5  lemons. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  twenty  minutes. 
Cool  the  syrup,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  freeze. 

Orange  Sherbet. 

3  gills  of  sugar.  1  lemon. 

10  oranges.  \l/2  pints  of  water. 

Grate  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  three  oranges  into  a  bowl. 
Squeeze  the  juice  of  two  oranges  on  this  and  let  the  mix- 
ture stand  for  an  hour  or  more.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
together  for  thirty  minutes.  i\dd  the  orange  and  lemon 
juice  to  this.  Strain  the  juice  in  which  the  rind  has  been 
soaking,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Freeze. 

In  grating  the  orange  rind  great  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  go  beyond  the  thin  yellow  surface.  If  the  grating  be 
deep,  the  sherbet  will  be  bitter. 

The  juices  of  any  acid  fruit  may  be  made  very  sweet, 
diluted  with  water,  and  frozen. 

Milk  Sherbet. 


1  pint  of  milk. 
l/2  gill  of  boiling  water. 
3   tablespoonfuls    of  powdered 
sugar. 


2  lemons. 

1  gill  granulated  sugar. 

l/2  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 


Cut  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  the  lemon  and  put  it  in  a 
bowl.    Pour  the  water  on  the  rind.    Cover  the  bowl  and 


SWEETS. 


299 


set  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  for  half  an  hour.  Mix 
the  lemon  juice  and  powdered  sugar  together.  When  the 
rind  has  steeped  for  half  an  hour,  strain  the  water  on  the 
lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Mix  the  corn  starch  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
Put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  the  double- 
boiler.  Stir  the  corn  starch  mixture  into  the  boiling  milk, 
and,  after  adding  the  sugar,  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Cool 
this  mixture,  and  then  freeze  for  ten  minutes.  Take  the 
cover  from  the  freezer  and  stir  the  lemon  mixture  into  the 
cream.    Put  on  the  cover  and  finish  freezing. 

Peach  Ice. 

1  quart  of  sliced  ripe  peaches. 
I  V2  gills  of  sugar. 
\y2  pints  of  water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  is  reduced  to 
one  pint.  Mash  the  peaches  fine,  and  rub  through  a 
strainer.    Add  the  syrup  to  the  strained  fruit,  and  freeze. 

Apricot  Ice. 

\i  can  of  apricots. 
y>  pint  of  water. 
y2  pint  of  sugar. 

Rub  the  apricots  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  water  and 
sugar  to  the  strained  fruit,  and  freeze. 

The  sugar  and  water  may  be  boiled  together  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and,  when  cold,  added  to  the  strained  apricot. 
This  will  give  a  smoother  and  richer  ice. 


CHAPTER  XX. 


BEVERAGES. 
Tea. 

THE  making  of  a  good  cup  of  tea  is  one  of  the  simplest 
things  in  the  world.  Use  an  earthenware  or  china 
teapot.  Fill  it  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  for  four  or  five 
minutes ;  then  pour  out  the  water,  leaving  not  a  drop  in  the 
pot.  Put  the  dry  tea  into  the  warm  pot  and  after  putting 
on  the  cover,  set  back  where  it  will  keep  warm  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  then  pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  tea  and  send 
to  the  table.  This  is  for  all  the  light  kinds  of  tea,  such  as 
Oolong  or  black  tea.  English  breakfast  tea  should  steep 
on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  to  suit  most  tastes.  If  made 
without  this  steeping,  it  has  a  much  brighter  and  fresher 
flavor,  but  it  lacks  the  body  so  much  prized  by  lovers  of 
this  beverage. 

The  proportions  of  tea  and  water  vary  with  the  taste  of 
the  family  or  individual.  The  old  rule  of  a  teaspoonful  for 
each  person  and  a  teaspoonful  for  the  pot,  makes  rather 
strong  tea,  if  three  gills  of  water  be  allowed  for  each 
person. 

The  water  must  be  boiling  when  it  is  poured  on  the  dry 
tea.  Many  people  seem  to  think  that,  if  it  has  boiled  some 
time  in  the  past,  it  will  suffice  simply  to  have  it  hot  when 
the  tea  is  made.  But  if  water  boil  a  long  time  all  the  gases 
will  be  driven  off,  and  the  water  become  flat  and  flavorless. 
Such  water  is  unfit  for  the  making  of  tea  and  coffee. 

Keep  the  teakettle  clean,  by  washing  it  out  every  day, 
and  always  fill  the  kettle  with  fresh  water  when  preparing  to 
make  tea  or  coffee. 


BEVERAGES. 


301 


The  Oolong  and  all  light  teas  deteriorate  with  age> 
whereas  English  breakfast  tea  improves. 

Coffee. 

Much  of  the  quality  of  a  cup  of  coffee  depends  upon  the 
berry,  and  the  process  of  making.  There  are  two  classes  of 
berries  :  the  strong  and  the  mild.  To  the  strong  belong 
the  Rio  and  Santas ;  to  the  mild,  the  Java,  Mocha,  Mara- 
caibo,  and  others.  The  last  named  kinds  are  usually  the 
highest  priced. 

Coffee  should  not  be  roasted  a  long  time  before  it  is 
ground.  Few  housekeepers  roast  their  own  coffee.  Only 
a  small  amount  of  the  roasted  article  should  be  bought  at  a 
time.  It  should  be  kept  in  an  air-tight  jar  and  in  a  dry 
place.  Do  not  buy  the  coffee  already  ground,  for  it  loses 
its  fine  flavor  more  rapidly  when  in 
the  ground  form  than  when  whole. 
Have  a  small  mill,  that  can  be  reg- 
ulated to  grind  coarse  or  fine. 

A  mixture  of  two  or  more  kinds  of 
coffee  gives  the  most  satisfactory  re- 
sults. Two  thirds  Java  or  Maracaibo 
with  one  third  Mocha  will  give  a  rich, 
smooth  coffee.  If  the  flavor  be  de- 
sired strong,  one  part  Java,  one  part  Mocha,  and  one 
part  Rio  may  be  used.  If  economy  must  be  practised, 
all  Rio  may  be  takea  If  the  roasted  coffee  be  thoroughly 
heated  just  before  or  after  it  has  been  ground,  and  if,  after 
being  taken  from  the  fire,  but  while  still  hot,  a  little  butter 
be  stirred  into  it,  the  beverage  will  be  much  richer  and 
smoother  ;  or  the  entire  purchase  may  be  thoroughly  heated 
at  one  time,  and  the  butter  be  stirred  into  it  then.  Allow  a 
generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  a  pound  of  coffee. 

There  are  many  methods  of  making  coffee.  Two  of  the 
best  are  given  below. 


302      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Boiled  Coffee. 


2  tablespoonf  uls  of  coarsely  ground 

coffee, 
i  pint  of  boiling  water. 


2  tablespoonf  uls  of  cold  water. 
Y%  saltspoonful  of  salt. 


Scald  the  coffee-pot  with  boiling  water.  Put  the  dry  coffee 
into  it  and  pour  the  boiling  water  upon  it.  Place  on  the 
fire,  and,  when  it  begins  to  boil,  draw  the  pot  back  where 
the  coffee  will  just  bubble  for  five  minutes.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  add  the  salt  and  cold  water.  Set  the  pot  back 
where  the  coffee  cannot  boil,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or 
three  minutes ;  then  serve. 

There  is  a  coffee  settler  in  the  market  which  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  salt  and  water. 

An  egg  makes  the  coffee  richer  in  flavor,  and  clears  it 
perfectly.  One  small  egg  will  answer  for  six  or  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  coffee.  The  egg,  shell  and  all,  should  be 
broken  into  a  cup  and  beaten.  After  using  what  is  required, 
cover  the  cup  and  put  it  in  a  cold  place.  This  will  keep 
for  two  or  three  days. 

When  an  egg  is  used  for  clearing  the  coffee  it  should  be 
stirred  into  the  dry  grounds,  and  be  cooked  with  the  coffee. 

If  one  wish  the  beverage  stronger  or  weaker,  increase  or 
diminish  the  amount  of  the  ground  berry. 


Filtered  Coffee. 

Coffee  biggins  come  expressly  for  making  filtered,  or 
"  drip"  coffee.  There  are  two  compartments  to  this  pot. 
In  the  upper  one  there  is  a  double  strainer,  on  which  is 
placed  the  coffee.  Above  the  coffee  there  is  placed 
another  rather  coarse  strainer.  This  upper  compartment 
is  placed  on  the  lower  one ;  boiling  water  is  poured 
through  the  upper  strainer  and  it  falls  like  rain  upon  the 
coffee   below.     The  points  to  remember  when  making 


BEVERAGES. 


303 


coffee  in  this  way  are  to  have  the  pot  hot,  the  coffee 
ground  to  a  fine  powder,  the  water  poured  on  gradually 
while  boiling,  and  not  to  have  the 
beverage  boil. 

Use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  ground 
coffee  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  After 
putting  the  coffee  in  the  pot,  and  fitting 
every  part  into  its  proper  place,  set  the 
coffee-pot  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  on 
the  range.  Pour  half  a  gill  of  boiling 
water  into  the  upper  strainer,  and  put 
on  the  cover.  Let  this  stand  for  three 
or  four  minutes,  that  the  powder  may  become  wet  and 
swell.  Now  add  half  the  remaining  boiling  water ;  and 
after  two  or  three  minutes  add  the  remainder.  At  the 
end  of  five  minutes  all  the  water  will  have  filtered 
through,  and  the  coffee  be  ready  to  serve. 

A  small  quantity  of  coffee  cannot  be  made  in  a  large  pot, 
because  the  water  will  pass  through  the  thin  layer  of  powder 
before  it  has  had  time  to  extract  the  strength  of  the  berry. 
If  all  the  water  were  poured  on  the  powder  at  once,  it 
would  dislodge  the  dry  grains  and  pass  through  without 
extracting  the  flavor  from  the  coffee. 

A  flannel  bag  is  often  hung  in  a  coffee-pot,  the  fine 
powder  being  put  in  it  and  the  boiling  water  poured 
directly  on  the  dry  coffee.  There  are  many  inventions 
in  the  line  of  coffee-pots  which  are  very  satisfactory, 
but  the  housekeeper  should  investigate  and  test  them  for 
herself. 

Coffee-pots  must  be  kept  absolutely  clean,  if  you  would 
have  a  satisfactory  cup  of  coffee.  A  few  old  grounds, 
lodged  in  a  groove  in  the  pot,  may  spoil  the  flavor  of  the 
finest  berry. 

If  you  cannot  have  cream  for  your  cup  of  coffee,  at  least 
have  hot  milk. 


304      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Cocoa. 

Several  preparations  are  made  from  the  cocoa  bean. 
We  find  the  product  in  the  market  in  the  form  of  choco- 
late, plain,  and  also  sweetened  and  flavored.  This  is  the 
roasted  bean  ground  to  a  smooth,  fine  substance,  which 
retains  the  oily  substance  known  as  cocoa  butter.  This 
makes  a  rich  beverage  which  few  people  can  use  daily. 
The  chocolate  is  valuable  in  the  preparation  of  various 
kinds  of  food  and  confections,  and  to  use  occasionally  as 
a  beverage.  In  its  sweetened  form  it  can  be  taken  in  the 
pocket  when  going  on  long  tramps ;  an  ounce  of  it  will 
allay  the  feeling  of  faintness  and  hunger  which  comes  with 
long  fasting. 

Breakfast  cocoa  is  made  by  pressing  nearly  all  the  cocoa 
butter  from  the  roasted  and  finely  ground  bean.  This  gives 
a  delicate  dry  powder,  which  makes  a  digestible,  nutritious, 
and  pleasant  drink.  Because  it  in  part  takes  the  place  of 
animal  food,  it  is  very  economical. 

The  cocoa  shells  and  nibs,  when  prepared  as  a  beverage, 
are  not  very  valuable  as  a  food,  because  only  a  small  part  of 
the  cocoa  is  extracted  in  the  boiling.  The  process  of  pre- 
paring the  cocoa  bean  for  the  market  is  almost  wholly 
mechanical,  so  that  when  you  get  your  cocoa  and  chocolate 
from  a  trustworthy  manufacturer  you  may  be  sure  that  you 
are  using  a  perfectly  pure  article  and  one  absolutely  clean. 

Chocolate. 

i  pint  of  milk.  \%.  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

I  ounce  of  good  chocolate.         I     i  tablespoonful  of  hot  water. 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire,  in  the  double- boiler.  Shave  the 
chocolate,  and,  putting  it  into  a  small  pan  with  the  sugar 
and  water,  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy. 
Stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk ;  then  beat  the  chocolate  with 


BEVERAGES. 


305 


a  whisk,  to  make  it  froth.  Pour  into  a  hot  pot,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Long  cooking  separates  the  oil  from  the  chocolate  and 
spoils  the  beverage. 

Breakfast  Cocoa. 

1  pint  of  milk 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  breakfast  cocoa. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

Put  the  milk  in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Mix  the  cocoa  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  the  cold  water. 
When  the  milk  boils,  add  the  cocoa,  and  boil  for  one 
minute.    Serve  hot. 

The  flavor  of  this  cocoa  is  always  finer  when  the  milk 
actually  bubbles  up  after  the  cocoa  is  added.  If  water  or 
part  water  be  used,  measure  the  cocoa  more  generously. 

Nothing  is  much  more  delicious  than  a  good  cup  of 
cocoa,  and  nothing  is  more  disappointing  than  the  slops 
one  so  often  gets  under  this  name,  because  many  people 
prepare  it  by  pouring  hot  water  on  the  powder  and  then 
adding  sugar  and  milk.  This  will  do  when  it  is  impos- 
sible to  boil  it,  but  it  is  only  a  makeshift.  It  should  be 
remembered  that  the  cocoa  bean  contains  a  considerable 
amount  of  starch,  and  this  starch  will  be  improved  by 
boiling. 

Broma. 

Broma  is  prepared  the  same  as  cocoa,  but  requires  a  few 
minutes'  longer  cooking,  because  of  the  addition  of  a  starchy 
substance  to  the  powder. 

Cocoa  Shells  and  Nibs. 

The  thin  shells  that  are  removed  from  the  roasted  cocoa 
bean,  and  a  part  of  the  nut  in  a  roughly  broken  state,  are 
used  for  a  beverage.    The  shells  are  sometimes  used  alone, 

20 


306     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

but  this  makes  rather  a  poor  drink.  The  shells  and  nibs 
are  put  into  a  cocoa  pot  with  boiling  water  and  simmered 
for  four  hours  or  more.  Use  a  gill  of  the  shells,  one  table - 
spoonful  of  the  nibs,  and  a  quart  of  water.  This  will  give  a 
generous  pint  of  the  beverage.  Serve  it  with  hot  milk  and 
sugar. 

Lemonade. 

1  lemon. 

yi.  pint  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Squeeze  the  lemon  and  strain  the  juice.  Add  the  sugar 
and  water  to  it  and  use  at  once.  It  should  be  very  cold  or 
very  hot.    Add  ice  in  warm  weather. 

When  the  water  is  not  good,  or  in  case  of  sickness,  boil- 
ing water  may  be  poured  on  the  sugar  and  fruit  juice  ;  then 
cool  the  lemonade. 

When  making  a  lemonade  for  a  company  of  people,  it 
may  be  mixed  in  a  large  handsome  bowl.  Add  to  it  all  or 
any  one  of  the  following  named  fruits  : — 

For  one  gallon  of  lemonade  use  four  quarts  of  water, 
twenty  lemons,  one  quart  of  sugar,  one  banana,  half  a  pine- 
apple, six  oranges,  one  pint  of  strawberries. 

Use  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  ;  have  the  pine- 
apple and  banana  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  the  strawberries  should 
be  whole.  Raspberries,  as  well  as  strawberries,  may  be 
used 


CHAPTER  XXI. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 

Quality  of  the  Fruit. 

IT  is  a  waste  of  time  and  strength  to  preserve  unripe,  over- 
ripe or  inferior  fruits.    One  should  select  sound,  ripe, 
well  flavored  fruits  for  this  purpose. 

What  to  do  with  Fruit  Pulp. 

When  making  jellies  with  crab  apples,  quinces,  peaches, 
etc.,  there  is  always  a  great  deal  of  pulp  left.  The  thrifty 
housekeeper  does  not  like  to  throw  this  away,  although 
all  the  fine  flavor  of  the  fruit  has  been  extracted  with  the 
juice.  If  fruit  be  plentiful  and  cheap,  it  will  be  economy  to 
throw  this  impoverished  pulp  away;  if,  on  the  other  hand, 
fruit  be  high  and  scarce,  add  some  fresh  fruit,  sugar,  and 
water  to  the  cooked  pulp,  and  boil  until  a  smooth  marma- 
lade is  formed. 

Cooked  quince  may  be  combined  with  fresh  tart  apples, 
sugar,  and  a  little  water.  While  the  mixture  is  hot,  can  it, 
and  it  will  be  found  good  for  pies  and  other  uses  when  the 
fresh  fruit  is  scarce. 

Preserved  Peaches. 

The  peaches  should  be  sound  and  ripe.  Weigh  the  fruit, 
and  for  every  nine  pounds  make  a  syrup  with  three  pounds 
of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water  ;  skimming  the  syrup  as  soon 
as  it  boils  up. 


308      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  a  bowl  of  cold 
water.  Fill  a  wire  basket  with  peaches  and  plunge  into  the 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Lift  the  basket  from  the 
water  and  turn  the  peaches  into  a  bowl.  Pare  them,  and 
drop  them  into  the  cold  water.  This  is  to  preserve  the 
color. 

Drop  the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  the  boiling  syrup. 
Cook  them  until  they  are  heated  through,  and  are  tender  ; 
then  put  in  a  hot  jar  as  many  as  will  go  in  without  crowding, 
and  fill  up  with  syrup.    Cover  the  jar  at  once. 

If  many  peaches  are  to  be  preserved  it  is  best  to  make 
the  syrup  in  several  lots,  as  otherwise  the  long  cooking, 
together  with  the  fruit  juice,  will  make  it  dark. 

Preserved  Pears. 

Make  a  syrup  like  that  for  the  peaches,  allowing  one 
quart  of  water  to  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  nine  pounds  of 
pears. 

Pare  the  pears  with  a  silver  knife  and  drop  them  in  a 
bowl  of  cold  water  to  preserve  the  color.  On  taking  them 
from  the  water  drop  them  into  the  boiling  syrup.  Cook 
them  gently  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  silver 
fork.  The  time  depends  upon  the  ripeness  of  the  fruit. 
The  pears  may  be  preserved  whole  or  in  halves.  Put  the 
cooked  fruit  into  hot  jars,  and,  after  filling  up  with  boiling 
syrup,  seal. 

Crab  Apples. 

Make  the  syrup  as  for  peaches  ;  allowing,  however,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Clean  the  blossom  end 
of  the  apples  by  rubbing,  and  drop  them  into  water.  Wash 
and  drain  them.  Drop  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  the  hot 
syrup,  and  cook  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  silver 
fork.  Fill  the  jars  with  the  fruit,  and,  after  filling  up  with 
hot  syrup,  seal  the  jars. 

The  stems  are  left  on  crab  apples. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


309 


Preserved  Plums. 

Make  the  syrup  for  the  large  white  plums  the  same  as  for 
crab  apples.  Peel  the  plums  by  plunging  in  boiling  water, 
like  peaches.    Cook  and  finish  the  same  as  crab  apples. 

Preserved  Damson  Plums. 

These  are  preserved  the  same  as  the  white  plums,  except 
that  they  are  not  peeled.  They  will  cook  in  about  three 
minutes. 

Grape  Preserve. 

This  preserve  should  be  made  with  a  tender-skinned 
grape.  The  Concord  grape  is  too  tough-skinned  to  make 
a  satisfactory  preserve. 

Squeeze  the  pulp  out  of  the  skin,  and,  after  putting  it  in 
the  preserving  kettle,  set  on  the  fire.  Stir  frequently,  and 
cook  until  the  pulp  will  break  up  readily.  This  will  require 
only  a  few  minutes'  boiling.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve, 
rejecting  the  seeds.  Measure  the  skins  and  pulp,  and  put 
them  in  the  preserving  kettle.  For  every  quart  of  the  fruit 
add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  one  gill  of  water. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes  after  the  preserve  begins  to  boil ; 
then  put  in  jars  and  seal.  If  you  choose,  use  less  sugar  ; 
or,  if  you  prefer  to  have  the  preserve  sweeter,  allow  a  pound 
of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit. 

Preserved  Quinces. 

Have  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  the  fire.  Pare  the  fruit 
and  remove  the  cores ;  then  weigh  it.  Drop  the  pared 
fruit  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  gently  until  so  tender 
that  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  it  from  the  water 
and  drain  it.    Make  a  syrup  the  same  as  for  peaches,  and 


310     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

put  the  cooked  fruit  into  it.  Simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour ;  then  put  up  in  jars.  This  amount  of  sugar  —  one 
pound  to  three  pounds  of  fruit  —  makes  a  fairly  rich  pre- 
serve. Less  may  be  used  if  one  prefer  to  have  the  quinces 
less  rich. 

Preserved  Pineapple. 

Pare  the  pineapple,  remove  the  eyes,  and  cut  the  fruit 
into  thin  slices,  cutting  down  the  sides  until  the  heart  is 
reached.  Weigh  the  sliced  fruit  and  put  it  in  a  bowl,  with 
half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Mix  the  fruit  and  sugar  well,  and  put  it  in  a  cold  place  over 
night.  In  the  morning  put  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  the  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  place  on  the  range.  When  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil,  skim  carefully ;  then  fill  the  hot  jars  with  the 
preserve  and  seal  them. 

The  pineapple  may  be  shredded  with  a  silver  fork,  instead 
of  being  sliced.  Be  careful  to  keep  out  all  the  woody 
fibres  of  the  heart  of  the  fruit. 

Preserved  Uncooked  Pineapple- 
Pare  the  pineapple  and  take  out  all  the  eyes.  With  a 
sharp  knife,  cut  the  fruit  in  thin  slices,  cutting  down  the 
sides  until  the  heart  is  reached  (this  is  to  be  discarded). 
Wreigh  the  sliced  pineapple  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  dish. 
Add  to  it  as  many  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  as  there  are 
pounds  of  fruit.  Stir  this  gently  ;  then  pack  the  fruit  and 
sugar  in  pint  jars,  leaving  space  for  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Jamaica  rum  in  each  jar.  Add  the  liquor  ;  then  put  on  the 
covers  and  tighten  them.    Set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Wine  or  brandy  may  be  substituted  for  the  rum  ;  or,  the 
jars  may  be  packed  solidly  to  the  top,  and  sealed,  without 
using  any  spirit.  This  fruit  will  keep  well,  and  is  so  tender 
that  it  will  melt  in  the  mouth.    It  is,  of  course,  very  rich. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


311 


Sun  Cooked  Strawberries. 

Pick  over  the  berries  and  weigh  them  ;  then  put  them  in 
the  preserving  kettle.  Add  to  them  as  many  pounds  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  as  there  are  of  strawberries.  Do  not  have  the 
fruit  and  sugar  more  than  three  or  four  inches  deep  in  the 
preserving  kettle.  Place  on  the  fire  and  heat  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point.  Let  the  preserve  cook  for  just  ten  min- 
utes from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil,  skimming  well.  Take 
up  and  pour  into  meat  platters,  having  the  preserve  not  much 
more  than  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  Set  the  platters  on 
tables  at  sunny  windows.  They  should  stand  in  the  sun  for 
twenty-four  full  hours.  If  the  sun  does  not  shine  one  day, 
let  the  fruit  remain  until  it  does.  Put  up  cold  in  preserve 
jars.    This  preserve  is  perfect. 

CANNING  FRUITS. 

The  destruction  of  germs  and  the  exclusion  of  air  are  the 
principles  upon  which  canning  is  based.  The  article  to  be 
preserved  is  cooked  for  a  short  time,  and  then  put  in  jars 
from  which  the  air  has  been  expelled  by  heating  them  to 
the  boiling  point.  They  are  then  sealed,  and  when  cold 
are  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  If  all  the  conditions  be  right, 
the  fruit  will  keep  for  an  unlimited  number  of  years,  and 
when  opened  will  be  found  to  have  nearly  all  the  freshness 
and  aroma  of  newly  gathered  fruit. 

Now  this  is  true  of  the  majority  of  fruits,  but  not  of  all. 
The  strawberry  subjected  to  this  process  will  come  out  a 
pale,  spongy,  insipid  thing,  whereas  the  raspberry  seems  to 
have  its  color,  flavor,  and  odor  intensified.  If,  however, 
a  generous  amount  of  sugar  be  added  to  the  strawberry  in 
the  cooking,  the  fruit  will  retain  its  shape,  color,  and  flavor 
It  is  an  error  to  attempt  to  can  this  berry  without  sugar,  or 
with  only  a  small  amount. 


312      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Filling  the  Jars. 

To  fill  the  jars,  have  on  the  stove  two  pans  partially  filled 
with  water.  Let  the  water  in  one  be  boiling,  but  in  the  other 
not  so  hot  that  the  hand  cannot  be  held  in  it  with  comfort. 
Put  a  few  jars  and  covers  in  the  cooler  water,  turning  them 
now  and  then  until  all  parts  become  warm  ;  then  put  them 
in  the  boiling  water.  This  does  away  with  all  danger  of 
breaking.  When  the  jars  have  been  heated  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  fill,  and  seal  them  one  at  a  time. 

In  filling  the  jars  be  sure  that  they  stand  level,  that  the 
syrup  has  filled  all  the  interstices  between  the  fruit,  and  that 
it  also  runs  over  the  top  of  the  jars.  Even  with  this  over- 
flowing of  the  syrup  it  will  be  found  that,  after  cooling, 
the  can  is  not  quite  full ;  but  if  the  work  has  been  properly 
done,  the  fruit  will  keep  all  right. 

Different  Fruits  Need  Different  Treatment. 

Now,  as  to  the  different  modes  of  treating  various  kinds 
of  fruit.  We  know  that,  when  the  germs  are  killed  and  the 
air  is  excluded,  sugar  is  not  necessary  for  the  preservation  of 
the  fruit.  But  there  are  few  kinds  of  fruit  that  are  not  im- 
proved by  some  sugar,  because  it  fixes  the  color  and  flavor, 
and  gives  much  finer  results.  Some  kinds  of  fruit  require 
but  little  sugar  for  this  purpose,  while  others  are  poor  indeed 
without  a  generous  amount.  One  has  only  to  contrast  the 
flavor  and  quality  of  the  canned  peaches  that  are  put  up 
with  and  without  sugar  to  realize  the  great  superiority  of 
those  with  which  saccharine  matter  has  been  used.  Where 
fruits  are  too  dry  to  give  out  enough  juice  to  cover  them 
generously,  a  light  syrup  should  be  used.  But  with  juicy 
fruits,  avoid  water  if  possible.  A  good  rule  in  the  case  of 
small  berries  is  to  allow  one  third  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  fruit. 

For  fruit  like  peaches,  pears,  plums,  etc.,  make  a  light 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


313 


syrup.  Quinces  must  first  be  cooked  in  clear  water  until 
tender. 

In  paring  fruit  use  silter-plated  knives,  and  drop  each 
piece  as  soon  as  pared  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  which  has 
been  made  acid  by  the  addition  of  lemon  juice.  This  pre- 
vents the  fruit  from  turning  dark.  Use  earthen  bowls,  and 
wooden  or  silver-plated  spoons.  Avoid  any  delay  while 
doing  this  work. 

To  Can  Small  Fruits. 

Any  fruit,  if  boiled  long  enough  to  have  all  the  germs 
killed  and  the  air  expelled,  will  keep  indefinitely  if  sealed 
while  boiling  hot.  Sugar  helps  to  preserve  the  fruit,  but  it 
is  not  absolutely  essential  to  its  preservation.  Sugar,  how- 
ever, preserves  the  fine  flavor  and  color  of  the  fruit.  Some 
fruits  are  not  good  when  canned,  unless  a  great  deal  of 
sugar  be  used,  whereas  just  the  contrary  is  true  of  other 
kinds.  Tastes  differ  as  to  the  amount  of  sugar  to  be  em- 
ployed ;  each  housekeeper  must  study  her  own  tastes  and 
those  of  her  family.  Blueberries  need  no  sugar,  but  are 
richer  if  a  little  be  used.  Blackberries  and  raspberries  are 
better  for  some  sugar,  —  say  a  pound  of  sugar  to  four  or  six 
pounds  of  fruit.  More  may  be  used,  if  liked.  Strawberries 
require  a  great  deal  to  preserve  the  color  and  texture.  All 
small  fruits  are  richer  if  preserved  in  their  own  juice. 

Here  is  a  rule  for  preserving  raspberries,  and  the  same  gen- 
eral principles  apply  to  other  fruits: — Take  twelve  quarts 
of  raspberries  and  two  of  sugar.  Heat  and  crush  three 
quarts  of  the  fruit ;  then  turn  it,  together  with  the  juice,  into 
a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  which  has  been  placed  over  a  bowl. 
Squeeze  as  much  juice  as  possible  from  the  hot  fruit.  Put 
the  juice  and  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle,  and  set  on 
the  fire.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  boil,  skim  well,  and 
add  the  whole  berries.  Simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  skim- 
ming well.    Put  the  hot  fruit  in  heated  jars,  and  seal. 

If  the  combined  flavor  of  raspberry  and  currant  be  liked, 


3 14      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

use  a  quart  of  currant  juice  for  the  syrup.  In  that  case  use 
an  extra  pint  of  sugar.  The  twelve  quarts  of  raspberries  are 
then  preserved  whole. 

Canned  Rhubarb. 

Get  tender  rhubarb.  Pare  it,  and  cut  in  pieces  about 
two  inches  long.  Wash,  and  then  pack  it  in  glass  jars. 
Fill  the  jars  with  cold  water,  and  let  them  stand  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water  and  fill  the  jars  to  over- 
flowing with  fresh  cold  water.  Seal  the  jars  and  put  them  in 
a  cool,  dark  place.  This  will  keep  for  a  year  or  more,  and 
should  be  treated  the  same  as  fresh  uncooked  rhubarb  when 
required  for  use. 

Blackberry  Jam. 

After  picking  over  the  berries,  put  them  in  the  preserving 
kettle  and  set  on  the  range.  Stir  the  fruit  frequently.  Let 
it  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  it  begins 
to  bubble.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.  Measure  the  strained 
mixture  and  put  it  back  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar  for  every  quart  of  strained  fruit. 
Heat  the  preserve  slowly  and  stir  frequently.  Let  it  simmer 
for  forty-five  minutes  ;  then  put  up  the  jelly  in  tumblers. 

If  the  fruit  be  of  the  large,  soft  kind  that  has  few  seeds, 
it  need  not  be  strained. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

12  quarts  of  raspberries. 
3  quarts  of  sugar 

Pick  the  fruit  free  from  leaves,  stems,  and  imperfect  ber- 
ries. Put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  set  on  the  fire.  Stir 
frequently.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour  after  it  begins  to  boil ; 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  simmer  for  one  hour  longer.  Put 
the  jam  in  hot  jars,  and  seal  while  hot. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


315 


Currant  and  Raisin  Jam. 


3  pounds  of  sugar. 
1  pound  of  raisins. 


1  orange. 
1  pint  of  water. 


3>2  pounds  of  currants. 

Cut  the  raisins  in  two  and  seed  them ;  then  cook  them 
for  one  hour  or  more  in  the  pint  of  water.  Pick  over  the 
currants  and  put  them  on  to  cook  in  the  preserving  kettle. 
Add  the  orange  juice,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  after 
the  fruit  begins  to  boil. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  orange,  and,  after  chopping 
the  pulp  and  peel  very  fine,  rub  through  the  sugar.  When 
the  currants  have  been  boiling  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  the 
other  ingredients  to  them,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes 
longer.  Put  into  jelly  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover.  This 
quantity  will  fill  twelve  glasses. 


Boil  the  lemons  in  clear  water  until  the  peel  can  be 
pierced  with  a  broom  splint ;  then  cut  it  into  small  pieces. 
Peel  and  chip  the  pears,  and  cut  the  ginger  in  thin  slices. 
Put  all  the  ingredients  into  the  preserving  kettle  and  sim- 
mer for  two  hours.  Pour  the  marmalade  into  jelly  glasses. 
This  quantity  will  fill  eighteen. 

The  water  in  which  the  lemons  are  cooked  is  to  be  thrown 
away. 


In  no  department  of  preserving  does  the  housekeeper 
feel  less  sure  of  the  results  than  in  jelly  making,  so  much 
depends  upon  the  condition  of  the  fruit.  This  is  more 
pronounced  in  the  case  of  small  fruits  than  with  the  larger 
kinds. 


Pear  Marmalade. 


8  pounds  of  sugar. 

8  pounds  of  Seckel  pears. 


y2  pound  of  crystallized  ginger. 
4  small  lemons. 


Jellies. 


3 16     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


When  currants  are  over-ripe,  or  have  been  picked  after  a 
rain,  the  result  of  using  them  will  be  uncertain.  Perhaps 
we  notice  it  more  with  this  fruit  than  with  any  other,  because 
it  is  so  generally  used  for  jelly.  An  understanding  of  the 
properties  of  fruit  which  forms  the  basis  of  jellies  may  help 
the  housekeepers  to  a  better  knowledge  of  the  conditions 
and  methods  essential  to  success. 

Pectin,  which  forms  the  basis  of  vegetable  jellies,  is  a  sub- 
stance which,  in  its  composition,  resembles  starch  and  gum. 
It  gives  to  the  juices  of  fruits  the  property  of  gelatinizing. 
This  property  is  at  its  best  when  the  fruit  is  just  ripe  ;  better 
a  little  under-ripe  than  over-ripe.  When  boiled  for  a  long 
time  fruit  loses  its  gelatinous  property  and  becomes  of  a 
gummy  nature. 

These  facts  show  the  importance  of  using  fruit  that  is  but 
just  ripe  and  freshly  picked,  as  well  as  the  need  of  care  not 
to  overcook  the  juice. 

Covering  Jellies. 

There  are  several  methods  of  covering  jellies.  Pasting 
paper  over  the  top  of  the  glass  is  one  of  the  oldest.  Thin 
sheets  of  cotton  batting,  tied  over  the  top,  make  a  good 
covering.  A  piece  of  white  tissue  paper  cut  to  fit  into  the 
glass,  and  simply  laid  on  top  of  the  jelly,  is  all  that  some 
people  use.  It  is  stated  that  the  jelly  will  not  mould  or 
shrink  so  much  when  covered  in  this  way  as  when  the  paper 
is  pasted  over  the  glass. 

Currant  Jelly. 

After  freeing  the  currants  from  leaves  and  stems,  put 
them  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  set  on  the  range.  Crush 
the  fruit  with  a  wooden  vegetable  masher,  and  stir  fre- 
quently until  heated  to  the  boiling  point.  Have  a  large 
square  of  cheese-cloth  in  a  strainer  which  is  set  over  a 
bowl.    Turn  the  crushed  fruit  and  juice  into  this  and  let 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


317 


it  stand  long  enough  to  drain  thoroughly.  Do  not  use  any 
pressure  to  extract  the  juice.  Have  a  flannel  bag  suspended 
over  a  bowl,  and  pour  the  strained  juice  into  this.  Now 
measure  the  liquid,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  preserving  ket- 
tle. When  it  boils  up,  add  a  scant  quart  of  sugar  for  every 
generous  quart  of  fruit  juice.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  all  dis- 
solved and  the  liquid  begins  to  bubble  ;  then  strain  through 
a  clean  piece  of  cheese-cloth  into  a  bowl.  Immediately 
fill  the  tumblers,  which  must  be  dry  and  warm.  Let  them 
stand  uncovered  until  the  jelly  is  set,  then  cover  with  a 
round  of  paper,  and  over  this  tie  a  thin  sheet  of  cotton 
batting ;  or  paper  may  be  pasted  over  the  glasses.  If  you 
use  the  glasses  that  come  with  covers,  nothing  else  will  be  re- 
quired except  the  first  sheet  of  paper.  Many  housekeepers 
prefer  to  use  even  less  sugar  than  the  amount  given,  allow- 
ing only  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit 
juice. 

Currant  Jelly,  No.  2. 

Pick  the  currants  free  from  stems  and  leaves,  and  put 
them,  a  few  quarts  at  a  time,  in  a  large  earthen  or  granite- 
ware  dish,  and  crush  them  with  a  vegetable  masher.  Put 
the  crushed  fruit  into  a  square  of  cheese-cloth,  and  press 
out  the  juice.  Put  the  strained  juice  into  the  preserving 
kettle  and  set  on  the  fire.  When  it  boils,  skim  it  well ; 
then  turn  it  into  a  flannel  bag  and  let  it  drain  into  an 
earthen  bowl.  Do  not  press  the  juice  through  the  bag. 
Measure  this  strained  juice,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
clean  preserving  kettle.  Let  it  boil  for  five  minutes.  Now 
add  a  pint  of  granulated  sugar  for  every  pint  of  currant 
juice.  Stir  the  mixture  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Boil  for 
just  one  minute  ;  then  fill  the  glasses,  which  must  be  warm, 
and  set  them  in  a  sunny  window  until  the  jelly  is  firm.  It 
may  require  only  a  few  hours'  time  for  this,  and  it  may  take 
even  a  day  or  two  \  all  depends  upon  the  condition  of  the 
currants. 


3 18      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


A  much  clearer  and  handsomer  jelly  is  made  by  putting 
the  currant  juice,  when  it  has  been  strained  the  second  time, 
into  the  clean  kettle,  and  adding,  when  it  comes  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  the  sugar  •  then  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, and  filling  the  glasses  immediately.  Set  in  the  sun 
until  the  jelly  becomes  firm.  It  will  take  two  or  three 
days.  This  is  called  sun- cooked  jelly.  The  currants  must 
be  in  perfect  condition  for  this  kind  of  jelly ;  just  ripe,  and 
freshly  picked. 


Wash  the  fruit  and  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover  it.  Let  it  simmer  for  one  hour. 
Have  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  in  a  strainer  that  is  set  over 
a  bowl,  and  turn  the  cooked  fruit  and  liquid  into  it.  Let  this 
drain  well ;  then  strain  the  liquid  through  a  clean  flannel 
bag.  Measure  it,  and  place  on  the  fire,  in  the  preserving 
kettle.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  it 
begins  to  boil ;  then  add  the  sugar,  using  a  pint  and  a  half 
for  every  quart  of  juice.  When  this  boils  up,  strain  through 
clean  cheese-cloth,  and  fill  warm  tumblers.  Cover  when  the 
jelly  is  set. 

Peach,  apple,  and  quince  jellies  may  be  made  in  this 
way. 


Jelly  can  be  made  from  any  of  the  small  juicy  fruits  in 
the  same  manner  as  currant  jelly. 


Crab  Apple  Jelly. 


Other  Jellies. 


Cucumber  Pickles. 


ioo  small  green  cucumbers. 

2    quarts    of    small  silver-skin 


i  pint  of  rock  salt. 

%  ounce  of  alum. 

i  tablespoonful  of  mustard  seed. 

i  tablespoonful  of  whole  clove. 

i  tablespoonful  of  allspice. 


onions. 
Six  small  green  peppers. 
I  gallon  of  vinegar. 


PRESERVES  AND  TICKLES. 


319 


Have  a  part  of  the  stems  left  on  the  cucumbers.  Wash 
the  cucumbers  in  cold  water ;  then  lay  them  in  a  tub  or 
jar,  sprinkle  the  salt  over  them,  and  cover  with  ice  water. 
Lay  a  large  piece  of  ice  on  top  of  the  cucumbers,  and  set 
away  in  a  cold  place  for  thirty-six  hours.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  take  the  cucumbers  from  the  salt  and  water,  and 
place  in  a  stone  jar,  mixing  the  onions  and  peppers  among 
them. 

Tie  the  whole  spice  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and  after  put- 
ting it,  with  the  vinegar  and  alum,  in  a  porcelain  or  granite- 
ware  saucepan,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire.  When  the  vinegar 
boils,  pour  it  on  the  pickles,  putting  the  spice  on  top. 
When  the  contents  of  the  jar  are  cold,  set  away  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  The  pickles  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twenty- 
four  hours. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. 


100  small  green  cucumbers. 
1  gallon  of  vinegar. 
1  pint  of  coarse  salt. 
1  pint  of  sugar. 
1  stick  of  cinnamon. 
]/z  tablespoonful  of  white  mustard 
seed. 

]/2  tablespoonful  of  black  mustard 
seed. 


%  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed. 

]/2  tablespoonful  of  allspice. 

Vz  of  a  nutmeg. 

A  small  piece  of  mace. 

1  small  green  pepper. 

1  gill  of  grated  horseradish. 

1  ounce  of  green  ginger. 

1  ounce  of  alum. 


Have  the  cucumbers  picked  with  a  part  of  the  stems  on. 
Wash  them,  and  put  in  a  tub  or  stone  jar.  Make  a  brine 
with  the  salt  and  six  quarts  of  water.  Pour  this  on  the 
cucumbers  while  boiling  hot.  On  the  second  and  third 
days  pour  off  the  brine.  Boil  and  skim  it,  and  then  pour 
it,  while  boiling  hot,  on  the  cucumbers.  On  the  fourth  day 
take  the  pickles  from  the  brine.  Put  the  alum  in  six  quarts 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  until  the  alum  is  dissolved.  Pour 
this  on  the  pickles  and  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day  ; 
then  pour  off  the  liquid,  and,  after  scalding  and  skimming  it, 
pour  it  on  the  pickles  again. 


320     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Repeat  this  the  sixth  day.  Should  the  cucumbers  be  not 
green  enough  on  the  sixth  day,  add  a  little  more  alum  to 
the  water.  On  the  seventh  day  pour  off  the  alum  water 
and  cover  the  pickles  with  clear  boiling  water.  Let  them 
stand  in  this  water  for  twenty- four  hours.  At  the  end  of 
this  time  take  them  from  the  water  and  place  in  the  jars  in 
which  they  are  to  be  kept.  Sprinkle  the  white  mustard 
seed  among  the  cucumbers. 

Put  the  vinegar  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite-ware  kettle 
and  set  on  the  fire.  Add  the  cinnamon,  broken  small,  the 
nutmeg,  grated,  and  the  other  spice,  as  well  as  the  sugar. 
Boil  this  for  five  minutes ;  then  take  from  the  fire  and 
partially  cool.  Pour  this  on  the  cucumbers.  Now  add  to 
the  contents  of  the  jars  the  horse-radish,  ginger  root,  and 
the  green  pepper,  cut  in  pieces.  Store  the  pickles  in  a 
cool,  dark  place.  They  will  keep  perfectly  for  two  years  if 
carefully  made. 

The  quantities  of  sugar  and  spice  may  be  varied  to  suit 
one's  taste. 


Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes.  Chop  the  onions  and  pep- 
pers fine.  Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  preserving  kettle 
and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  bottle  and 
seal. 


Tomato  Pickle. 


12  large  ripe  tomatoes. 

3  onions  of  medium  size. 

4  red  peppers  of  medium  size. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt. 
]/z  pint  of  vinegar. 


Canadian  Tomato  Pickle. 


i  peck  of  green  tomatoes. 

6  Urge  onions. 

l/z  pint  of  salt. 

3  quarts  of  vinegar. 

i  quart  of  water. 

1  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  curry-powder. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  tumeric. 


i   tablespoonful  of  ground  cin- 


namon. 


i  tablespoonful  of  ground  clove, 
i  tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice. 
I  tablespoonful  of  ground  mus- 


tard. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


321 


Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onions  and  sprinkle  the  salt  over 
them.  Let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain 
off  the  liquid  and  put  the  vegetables  in  the  preserving  kettle 
with  one  quart  each  of  water  and  vinegar.  Let  the  mixture 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  well.  To  the  drained 
mixture  add  the  spice,  sugar,  and  two  quarts  of  vinegar. 
Put  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  counting  frum 
the  time  it  begins  to  bubble.    Put  into  jars  and  seal. 


Governor's  Sauce. 


1  peck  of  green  tomatoes. 

6  red  or  green  peppers. 

y2  pint  of  grated  horseradish. 

]/2  pint  of  salt. 

4  large  onions. 

l/2  pint  of  brown  sugar. 


1  tablespoonful  of  ground  clove. 
1  tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice. 
1  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper. 
Vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  in- 
gredients,—  about  two  quarts. 


Slice  the  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  the  salt  over  them.  Let 
them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  liquor 
and  put  the  tomatoes  in  the  preserving  kettle.  Add  the 
seasonings  and  the  peppers  and  onions,  chopped  fine.  Pour 
over  these  ingredients  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them  well. 
Simmer  the  sauce  for  one  hour  and  a  half;  then  put  up  in 
jars  and  seal. 


Tomato  Catsup. 


10  quarts  of  tomatoes. 
1  quart  of  cider  vinegar. 
1  pound  of  brown  sugar. 
34  pound  of  salt. 
1  ounce  of  pepper  corns. 
I  ounce  of  whole  allspice. 


yz  ounce  of  whole  cloves. 
x/i  ounce  of  whole  ginger. 
8  ounces  of  ground  mustard. 
3  small  red  peppers. 
3  cloves  of  garlic. 


Cut  the  tomatoes  up  and  put  them  on  the  fire,  in  the 
preserving  kettle.  Add  the  garlic,  and  cook  until  the 
tomatoes  are  tender,  —  about  forty-five  minutes  after  they 
begin  to  boil.    Rub  them  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to 


322        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


keep  back  the  seeds.  Put  the  strained  mixture  on  the  fire, 
in  the  preserving  kettle.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Tie  the  whole  spice  and  red  peppers  in  a  piece  of  muslin, 
and  put  them  with  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  the  mustard 
smoothly  with  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the  mixture.  Sim- 
mer the  catsup  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  put  up  in 
bottles. 

The  catsup  must  be  stirred  often  to  prevent  burning. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

Put  ripe  tomatoes  in  a  large  pan  and  cover  them  with 
boiling  water.  Let  them  stand  for  four  or  five  minutes ; 
then  pour  off  the  water  and  pare  the  tomatoes.  Another 
way  to  reach  the  same  result  is  to  have  a  large  kettle  of 
boiling  water  on  the  fire,  and  put  the  tomatoes  in  a  wire 
basket  and  plunge  them  into  the  boiling  water  for  a  minute 
or  two. 

After  paring  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  Put 
the  sliced  vegetable  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  heat  slowly, 
stirring  frequently.  Let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  or 
longer,  after  they  begin  to  boil.  Fill  heated  jars,  and  seal 
them.    When  cold,  put  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 


Spiced  Currants. 


3  generous  quarts  of  currants. 
I  quart  of  sugar. 
Yz  pint  of  vinegar. 


i  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 
i  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 


Measure  the  currants  after  they  have  been  picked.  Put 
all  the  ingredients  into  the  preserving  kettle  and  place  on 
the  stove.  Stir  the  mixture  frequently,  and  when  it  begins 
to  boil  skim  carefully.  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  counting 
from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Put  it  up  in  small  jars  or 
tumblers.    This  is  to  be  served  with  meat. 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES. 


3^3 


Spiced  Crab  Apple. 


3  pounds  of  crab  apple. 
1  %  pounds  of  brown  sugar. 


1  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


1  teaspoonful  of  clove. 

Cover  the  crab  apples  with  boiling  water  and  cook  them 
until  tender ;  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  pressing  all 
the  liquid  through  also.  Put  the  strained  fruit  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  add  the  sugar  and  seasoning.  Cook 
gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half ;  then  put  in  tumblers.  When 
cold,  cover  with  paper,  the  same  as  jelly.  This  is  to  be 
served  with  cold  meat. 


Slice  the  tomatoes,  peppers,  and  onions.  Add  the  salt 
to  the  sliced  vegetables,  and  mix  well.  Let  this  mixture 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  liquid  ;  then 
add  the  other  ingredients,  and,  putting  the  mixture  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  cook  for  four  hours,  stirring  often.  Put 
the  piccalilli  in  glass  jars  while  hot,  and  it  will  keep  for  a 
year  or  more. 


Piccalilli. 


1  peck  of  green  tomatoes. 

2  red  peppers. 
12  onions. 

l/2  pint  of  salt. 

Yz  pint  of  grated  horseradish. 


1  tablespoonful  of  ground  clove. 
1  tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice. 
1  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinna- 


mon. 


3  quarts  of  vinegar. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS. 

LIFE  on  a  farm  has  its  bright  and  dark  sides,  as  does  life 
elsewhere.  If  r.ll  other  things  were  equal,  the  pure  air, 
abundance  of  sunshine,  plentiful  supply  of  good  milk,  butter, 
eggs,  vegetables,  and  fruit  should  make  the  farmer's  family 
the  healthiest  and  happiest  of  any  class  in  the  land.  But  to 
counterbalance  all  these  advantages  there  are  the  monotony 
of  life  and  food,  and  often  unwholesome  water,  where  one 
would  expect  to  find  only  the  purest.  The  farmer's  wife 
or  daughter  need  not  feel  that  she  is  buried ;  that  she  is 
nobody ;  that  she  has  no  mission  in  life  ;  that  she  is  largely 
a  drudge.  Every  honest  man  or  woman,  unless  we  exclude 
some  of  the  very  rich,  must  do  some  work.  Now,  this 
work,  whether  it  be  in  the  kitchen,  shop,  on  the  farm,  in 
the  counting-room,  store,  or  any  of  the  professions,  may 
become  drudgery  or  may  be  made  in  some  degree  a  pleas- 
ure. Everything  depends  upon  the  home  life.  The  mis- 
sion of  the  farmer's  wife  and  daughter  is  one  of  great 
responsibility.  It  means  the  physical,  mental,  and  moral 
health  of  the  entire  family.  I  know  of  no  class  of  women 
whose  mission  means  more  to  humanity. 

Have  the  home  sweet  and  healthful.  Remember  that 
pure  air  and  sunshine  in  the  house  are  the  greatest  purifiers. 
Do  not  exclude  them.  Impure  water  carries  poison  through 
the  system  more  effectually  than  if  it  were  in  solifi  food. 
Water  may  look  clear  and  sparkling,  yet  be  filled  with  the 
germs  of  disease.  A  well  never  should  be  placed  where 
the  sewage  from  the  house  or  barn  can  filter  into  it.    If  the 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS.  325 


well  be  near  the  house,  do  not  allow  slops,  suds,  etc.,  to  be 
thrown  on  the  ground  near  it.  If  there  be  a  drain  to  carry 
off  the  household  slops  and  suds  it  should  be  laid  as  far  as 
possible  from  the  well  and  so  constructed  that  there  shall 
be  no  leakage.  Whatever  else  you  may  lack,  be  firm  in 
your  efforts  to  have  pure  water,  and  pure  air  and  sunshine 
in  plenty  in  the  house. 

Try  to  get  as  much  variety  in  your  food  as  possible, 
especially  in  the  matter  of  the  more  substantial  things, 
such  as  vegetables,  meats,  fish,  soups,  and  breads.  Try 
to  educate  your  family  and  yourself  up  to  the  point  where 
pies,  cake,  doughnuts,  etc.  need  not  be  a  daily  dish  on  your 
table.  Instead  of  these,  have  plenty  of  fresh  stewed  fruits 
when  in  season,  and  canned  fruits  at  other  periods.  These 
fruits,  with  good  bread,  rolls,  rusk,  buns,  etc.,  are  healthful, 
and  so  simple  that  one  does  not  tire  of  them. 

Learn  to  make  simple  puddings  and  other  desserts  for  the 
noonday  meal.  If  you  follow  these  suggestions  you  will 
reap  a  rich  reward  in  a  healthy,  clear-headed  family.  You 
must  think  for  yourself,  too.  Keep  up,  as  much  as  possible, 
with  the  outside  world.  Take  a  part  of  a  day  at  least  once 
a  week  to  meet  other  people,  and  manage  to  get  in  a  visit 
to  town  now  and  then.  Read  some  bright  new  books.  Do 
not  devote  all  your  spare  moments  to  fancy  work  or  the 
trimming  of  underclothing  for  yourself  and  your  children  ; 
you  would  be  wasting  your  energies  and  making  extra  work 
for  ironing  day.  Keep  yourself,  as  much  as  is  in  your  power, 
a  bright,  happy,  thinking  woman,  and  you  will  be  an  inspira- 
tion and  tower  of  strength  to  your  family  and  neighborhood. 
This,  perhaps,  seems  a  little  like  a  sermon,  but  I  mean  every 
word  of  it. 

To  Prepare  Meat  for  Corning. 

All  meats  should  be  kept  until  free  from  animal  heat 
before  being  put  into  brine.  This  will  take  at  least  forty- 
eight  hours.    Have  the  meat  cut  into  suitable  pieces  and 


326     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


sprinkled  lightly  with  fine  salt  and  saltpetre  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre  to  four  of  salt.  Lay 
the  meat  on  a  board  that  is  slightly  inclined,  so  that  the 
surface  blood  which  is  drawn  from  the  meat  can  run  off. 
At  the  end  of  forty-eight  or  more  hours  put  it  in  the  brine. 

All  meats  should  be  completely  covered  with  brine.  If 
there  be  any  tendency  to  float,  lay  pieces  of  board  on  the 
meat  and  put  weights  on  these.    Large  stones  will  answer. 


Pickle  for  any  Kind  of  Meat. 

12  gallons  of  water.  3  pounds  of  brown  sugar. 

3  gallons  of  salt.  2  ounces  of  potash  or  washing 

pound  of  saltpetre.  soda. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  large  kettle  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Stir  frequently,  and  skim  until  clear ;  then  pour  into  a  large 
tub,  being  careful  not  to  turn  in  the  sediment.  Any  kind  of 
meat  may  be  put  into  this  pickle  when  cold.  Beef  should 
remain  in  the  pickle  from  one  to  four  or  five  weeks,  as  one 
may  desire  it  slightly  or  thoroughly  salted. 


Pickle  for  Tongues. 


6  gallons  of  water. 

9  quarts  of  salt. 

2  quarts  of  brown  sugar. 


%  of  a  pound  of  saltpetre. 
2  ounces  of  washing  soda. 


Prepare  this  pickle  the  same  as  directed  for  meat  pickle 
It  will  require  ten  or  twelve  days'  time  to  pickle  the  tongues. 
If  the  flavor  of  juniper  berries  be  liked,  simmer  half  a  pound 
in  one  quart  of  water  for  one  hour ;  then  strain  the  liquid 
into  the  brine. 

Corned  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

Rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  into  a  shoulder  of  mutton 
and  let  it  stand  for  one  day ;  then  put  it  into  a  pickle  for 
five  or  six  days. 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS. 


327 


To  Cure  Hams. 


8  hams  of  good  size. 
8  quarts  of  fine  salt. 
4  quarts  of  brown  sugar. 


1  ounce  of  washing  soda. 
yz  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
ounce  of  ground  clove. 


4  ounces  of  saltpetre. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  rub  thoroughly  into 
the  hams.  Pack  the  meat  in  a  cask  or  tub  having  the 
skin  side  down.  After  three  weeks  change  the  top  layer  to 
the  bottom.  Let  the  hams  lie  in  pickle  for  six  or  seven 
weeks  ;  then  wash  them,  and  wipe  them  dry,  and  finally 
hang  them  up  to  smoke.  It  will  take  from  one  to  two 
wTeeks  to  smoke  them.  They  are  often  smoked  three 
months. 

Hams  may  be  pickled  in  a  brine  such  as  is  prepared  for 
tongues.  They  should  remain  in  it  from  four  to  six  weeks, 
if  they  are  to  be  kept  through  the  year. 

If  you  have  no  smoke-house,  six  or  eight  hams  can  be 
smoked  in  a  hogshead.  Fasten  a  strong  piece  of  board  or 
joist  across  the  top  of  the  hogshead  and  suspend  the  hams 
from  this.  Have  an  old  tin  or  iron  pan  in  which  to  make  the 
fire.  For  fuel  use  corn  cobs,  green  hickory,  or  oak  chips. 
About  twenty  corn  cobs  are  enough  to  use  at  a  time.  Have 
some  ashes  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Put  some  live  wood 
coals  on  this,  and  then  pile  on  the  corn  cobs  or  chips,  and 
place  all  under  the  hogshead.  Cover  the  hogshead  with 
several  thicknesses  of  old  quilts  and  carpets.  This  is  to 
keep  in  the  smoke  and  also  to  check  the  fire,  which  should 
just  smoulder,  making  a  great  deal  of  smoke  and  little  heat. 
The  fire  must  be  renewed  every  day.  You  must  be  careful 
not  to  get  so  much  fire  that  the  meat  will  be  heated. 

When  thoroughly  cured,  sew  each  ham  in  a  thick  cotton 
bag  and  hang  all  in  a  cool  dry  place,  or  pack  them. 


328     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


To  Cure  Breakfast  Bacon. 

Select  the  flank  pieces  and  the  thin  end  of  the  ribs  of  the 
pork,  and  treat  the  same  as  the  hams.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  pickle  or  smoke  these  thin  pieces  quite  so  long  a  time  as 
the  thick  hams. 


Sausage  Meat. 


15  pounds  of  pork. 

2  ounces  of  white  pepper. 

4  ounces  of  salt. 


1  ounce  of  sage. 

%  an  ounce  of  coriander. 


Have  the  pork  about  one  third  fat  and  two  thirds  lean. 
Chop  it  fine,  and  free  from  all  bits  of  gristle.  Mix  the 
seasoning  thoroughly  with  it.  Fill  cases  with  this,  or  pack 
in  stone  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

English  Sausage  Meat. 


16  pounds  of  pork. 

2  ounces  of  white  pepper. 

6  ounces  of  salt. 

1  ounce  of  sage. 


1  ounce  of  summer  savory. 
x/z  ounce  of  thyme. 
1  nutmeg. 


Prepare  the  sausage  meat  as  directed  in  the  preceding 
rule.  • 

To  Cure  Jowl  and  Chines. 

When  a  hog  is  being  cut  up,  take  out  the  backbone  and 
remove  the  greater  part  of  the  fat ;  then  cut  the  chine  in 
pieces  about  a  foot  long. 

Split  open  the  head  and  take  out  the  brains.  Next  cut 
off  the  snout.  Cut  the  head  in  two,  and  cut  off  the  upper 
bone  to  give  the  cheeks  a  good  shape.  Mix  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  saltpetre  and  one  cupful  of  salt.  Rub  this 
over  the  jowl  and  chines.  Now  pack  them  closely  in  a 
small  butter-tub,  and  place  a  piece  of  board  and  a  heavy 
weight  on  top  of  them.  Put  two  quarts  of  coarse  salt  in  a 
large  kettle,  and,  after  setting  the  kettle  on  the  stove,  put 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS.  329 

in  seven  quarts  of  hot  water.  When  this  begins  to  boil, 
skim  it  carefully,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  this  brine 
is  cold,  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Keep  in  a  cold  place.  The 
jowl  and  chines  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  three  weeks ; 
they  will  keep  for  a  year. 

When  all  the  meat  has  been  used,  the  brine  may  be 
scalded,  skimmed,  and  cooled,  and  used  again  for  the  same 
purpose. 

To  Cook  Jowl. 

Wash  the  jowl,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Cover  it  with  cold  water  and  heat  it  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point.  Skim,  and  set  back  where  it  will  simmer  for  three 
hours.  The  water  should  not  more  than  bubble.  Serve 
with  sliced  and  boiled  turnips  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Spinach  or  cabbage  boiled  in  salted  water,  then  drained 
and  chopped,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter,  should  be 
served  with  the  jowl  when  possible.  Later  in  the  season 
substitute  beet  and  other  greens  for  the  spinach  and  cab- 
b.ige.  In  families  where  economy  has  to  be  practised  it  is 
customary  to  cook  the  cabbage  or  greens  and  the  turnips 
with  the  jowl.    No  butter  is  then  required  for  seasoning. 

Chine  Pillau. 


3  gills  of  boiling  water. 
y2  pint  of  rice,  scant  measure, 
3  pounds  of  chine,  fresh  or  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage. 


1  tablespoonful  chopped  onions. 
]/z  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


This  is  a  cheap  and  savory  dish.  Wash  and  wipe  the 
pieces  of  chine  carefully,  and  lay  them  in  a  small  dripping 
pan.  Sprinkle  the  powdered  sage  over  them  and  then  cook 
for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  being  careful  not  to  let  the 
gravy  burn.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  set  the  pan  on  the  grate, 
to  prevent  the  bottom  from  becoming  very  hot.  At  the 
end  of  the  hour  take  the  meat  from  the  oven  and  place  it 


330      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

in  a  large  stewpan.  Into  the  pan  in  which  the  meat  was 
cooked  put  the  chopped  onion.  Set  the  pan  on  top  of  the 
stove  and  stir  the  contents  until  the  onion  begins  to  turn  a 
golden  brown ;  then  add  the  flour,  and  stir  the  mixture 
until  it  froths.  Gradually  add  the  boiling  water,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  this  simmer 
for  five  minutes. 

Wash  the  rice  in  three  waters,  and  put  it  in  the  stewpan 
with  the  chine.  Strain  the  gravy  over  this.  Cover  the 
stewpan  closely,  and  set  it  back  where  its  contents  will 
hardly  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half.    Serve  very  hot. 

Should  the  chine  be  very  salt,  be  scant  in  the  measure- 
ment of  salt,  but  if  it  be  fresh,  heap  the  teaspoon  as  full  as 
it  will  hold,  and  also  rub  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
into  the  chine  when  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  The  onion  may 
be  omitted. 

How  to  Render  Lard. 

The  best  lard  is  that  made  from  the  fat  which  lies  around 
the  kidneys,  and  is  termed  leaf  lard.  Remove  all  the  skin, 
and  cut  the  lard  in  small  pieces.  Put  it  in  an  iron  pot, 
and  heat  slowly,  stirring  it  frequently.  Cook  it  in  this 
manner  until  the  pieces  of  fat , look  shrivelled  and  straw- 
colored.  On  no  account  let  it  get  so  hot  that  it  will  smoke. 
Draw  the  pot  back  where  the  lard  will  partially  cool ;  then 
strain  it  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth.  Tin  pails  are 
satisfactory  vessels  in  which  to  keep  lard.  Do  not  put  on 
the  covers  until  the  lard  is  cold.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

Hogs'  Head  Cheese. 

Have  the  head  split,  scraped,  and  thoroughly  cleaned. 
Put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it 
generously,  and  simmer  for  five  hours,  skimming  the  liquid 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  OX  FARMS. 


331 


several  times  during  the  first  hour.  Place  the  head  on  a 
platter  and  remove  the  bones.  When  the  meat  is  cold, 
chop  it  fine,  and  season  each  solid  quart  with  two  table - 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  and  sifted  sage.  Add  to  this  mixture 
half  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled.  Cook 
the  mixture  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  and  then  turn  into 
deep  earthen  dishes.  Place  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top  of 
each  dish,  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place.  This  cheese  will 
cut  in  smooth  slices. 

If  spice  and  other  kinds  of  herbs  be  liked,  they  may  be 
added  with  the  other  seasonings. 

Should  a  part  of  the  cheese  be  kept  so  long  that  there  is 
danger  of  its  spoiling,  heat  it  slowly  to  the  boiling  point ; 
then  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and  cool  as  before. 


Scrapple. 


l/2  of  a  pig's  head. 
2  quarts  of  water. 
Y2  pint  of  corn  meal,  —  generous 
measure. 


2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
14  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
2  leaves  of  sage. 


Clean  the  pig's  head  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  hot 
water.  Let  it  simmer  for  three  hours ;  then  take  it  from 
the  fire  and  cool  it.  When  cold,  remove  the  bones  and 
chop  the  meat  fine.  Add  this  and  the  seasonings  to  the 
liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  return  to  the  fire.  When 
the  contents  of  the  stewpan  begin  to  boil,  sprinkle  in  the 
meal,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  for  two  hours,  stirring 
frequently.  Rinse  a  deep  bread  pan  in  cold  water,  and 
pour  the  hot  mixture  into  it.    Set  away  in  a  cold  place. 

When  the  scrapple  is  perfectly  cold,  cut  it  into  slices 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  after  rolling  these  in  flour,  or 
breading  them,  fry  until  brown. 


332      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Tripe. 

Lay  the  tripe  on  a  table  and  scrape  it  with  a  broad- 
bladed  knife ;  then  wash  it  thoroughly  in  several  waters. 
Soak  it  for  five  or  six  days  in  salt  and  water,  changing  the 
water  every  other  day,  and  using  a  quart  of  salt  to  three 
gallons  of  water.  At  the  end  of  this  time  boil  it  gently  for 
ten  hours,  turning  it  frequently,  that  it  may  not  stick  to  the 
bottom  of  the  boiler  and  burn.  When  the  tripe  has  been 
boiling  for  eight  hours,  add  half  a  pint  of  salt. 

The  boiled  tripe  may  be  used  plain,  with  a  butter  sauce, 
or  it  may  be  broiled,  fried  in  batter,  soused,  etc.  When 
soused  it  will  keep  for  several  weeks. 


Soused  Tripe. 


8  pounds  of  boiled  tripe. 
3  pints  of  vinegar, 
i  stick  of  cinnamon. 


6  whole  cloves. 

i  small  blade  of  mace. 


Cut  the  tripe  in  pieces  and  place  it  in  a  stone  pot.  Heat 
the  vinegar  and  spice  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  over 
the  tripe.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place  and  it  will  keep  for 
several  weeks.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twelve  hours, 
and  it  may  be  broiled  or  fried. 


Pigs'  Feet. 

Pigs'  feet  should  be  treated  in  every  particular  the  same 
as  tripe.  After  being  boiled  they  may,  when  cold,  be 
broiled,  or  be  fried  in  batter  or  crumbs.  They  may  be 
soused,  and  then  be  broiled  or  fried. 


To  Preserve  Rennet. 

Rennet  is  the  lining  membrane  of  one  of  the  stomachs  of 
the  calf.    Select  the  stomach  of  a  healthy  calf,  and  empty  it. 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS. 


333 


Remove  the  outer  skin  and  the  fat.  Wipe  the  rennet,  and 
then  salt  it  well,  using  about  half  a  pint  of  salt,  and  putting 
the  greater  part  of  it  in  the  sack.  Let  the  rennet  lie  on  a 
dish  for  five  or  six  hours,  then  stretch  it  on  a  forked  stick. 
Cover  it  with  netting,  to  protect  it  from  flies,  and  hang  it 
up  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  When  the  rennet  is  dry  (which 
will  be  in  about  a  week)  put  it  in  a  paper  bag  or  a  glass 
jar,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  This  rennet  may  be 
used  in  making  cheese  or  rennet  wine. 

Rennet  Wine. 

Wash  the  rennet,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Put  this 
in  a  wide- mouthed  bottle,  with  one  quart  of  sherry.  This 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five  days.  Rennet  wine  is 
used  with  fresh  milk  to  make  delicate  desserts,  such  as  slip, 
rennet  custard,  etc. 

When  the  quart  of  wine  has  been  used,  a  second  quart 
may  be  poured  on  the  rennet  in  the  bottle. 

If  salted  rennet  be  used,  soak  it  for  several  hours  in  cold 
water  to  remove  the  salt. 

Essence  of  Rennet. 

Clean  a  rennet  and  cut  it  into  small  bits.  Put  these  in 
a  glass  jar  with  three  ounces  of  salt.  Work  the  salt  into 
the  rennet  with  a  spoon.  Now  cover  the  jar,  and  put  in 
a  cool  place  for  six  weeks.  At  the  end  of  this  time  add 
a  gill  of  rum  and  a  pint  of  water.  Let  this  stand  for  two 
days  j  then  filter  through  paper,  and  bottle  for  use.  This 
essence  may  be  employed  the  same  as  rennet  wine,  using 
with  it  any  flavor  one  wishes. 


334       MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


THE  DAIRY. 

The  suggestions  given  for  the  work  in  the  dairy  are  for 
the  guidance  of  the  woman  who  has  only  the  simplest 
appliances  to  work  with,  and  only  a  small  amount  of  milk 
or  cream  to  handle.  In  the  large  dairies,  with  such  modern 
apparatus  as  the  separator,  and  other  fine  machinery,  the 
process  of  making  butter  differs  from  that  outlined  in  this 
chapter.  The  essentials  are  always  the  same,  whether  it  be 
in  the  smallest  and  most  primitive  dairy,  or  in  the  largest 
and  most  modern.  There  must  be  perfect  cleanliness  and 
freedom  from  odors.  Wood  floors  and  racks  on  shelves 
and  in  refrigerators  must  be  watched  carefully ;  for  wood 
absorbs  the  moisture  from  milk  and  water,  and  will  taint 
milk,  butter,  and  cheese  very  quickly.  The  greatest  care  is 
therefore  needed,  that  all  the  woodwork  shall  be  washed 
clean,  and  dried  thoroughly.  Guard  against  letting  any  of 
the  wood  about  the  dairy  become  milk-  or  water-soaked. 

Care  of  Milk  and  Cream. 

Milk  and  all  the  products  of  milk  require  the  most  care- 
ful attention.  Thorough  cleanliness  and  good  ventilation 
are  absolutely  necessary.  Milk,  butter,  and  cream  quickly 
absorb  any  odors  that  there  may  be  near  by.  If  possible, 
one  room  or  pantry  should  be  kept  exclusively  for  the 
dairy  products.  If  this  be  impossible  keep  one  side  of 
the  room  —  that  nearest  the  window  —  for  this  purpose. 
Never  put  strong-odored  or  warm  food  in  this  room.  Keep 
the  room  scrupulously  clean  and  dry.  Every  utensil  that 
is  used  about  milk  in  any  form  must  be  first  washed  in 
cold  water,  then  in  hot  suds,  and  finally  scalded  in  clear, 
boiling  water.  Wipe  perfectly  dry  with  towels  that  are 
kept  for  this  purpose,  and  that  are  washed  and  scalded 
every  day.  Now  put  the  utensils  out  in  the"  sun.  If  the 
day  be  wet,  put  them  by  an  open  window  to  air.  The 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS.  335 


milk,  cream,  butter,  etc.,  that  come  from  such  a  dairy  can- 
not fail  to  be  of  a  superior  quality. 

When  the  milk  is  brought  in,  pour  it  through  a  fine 
strainer  into  the  pans,  and  then  set  the  pans  in  place.  If 
at  any  time  it  be  necessary  to  mix  the  night  and  morning 
milk,  cool  the  fresh  milk  before  it  is  added  to  the  older 
milk.  Adding  warm  milk  to  cold  milk  will  cause  the  whole 
mass  to  spoil  quickly. 

When  the  cream  is  being  collected  for  butter  making,  it 
must  not  be  kept  so  long  that  it  becomes  very  sour,  or  in 
winter  until  it  becomes  bitter.  Have  a  stone  jar  in  which 
the  cream  can  be  kept.  In  summer  keep  it  in  the  coldest 
place  you  have,  but  in  winter  it  must  be  kept  where  it  will 
become  slightly  sour,  without  becoming  bitter.  Old  butter- 
makers  advise  skimming  the  cream  as  free  as  possible  from 
milk.  Every  time  a  batch  of  cream  is  added  to  that  in  the 
jar,  stir  the  contents  of  the  jar,  in  order  to  mix  thoroughly 
the  new  and  old  cream. 

The  cream  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  on  the  milk 
until  sour.    Skim  it  while  both  milk  and  cream  are  sweet. 

Butter  Making. 

The  quality  of  the  butter  will  depend  largely  upon  the 
care  of  the  milk  and  cream.  It  will  help  the  butter- maker 
to  use  a  thermometer.  One  suitable  for  dairy  work  can  be 
purchased  for  twenty-five  cents  at  any  store  where  they 
keep  such  goods,  or  where  they  keep  dairy  supplies.  The 
cream  should  be  slightly  sour,  and  when  put  into  the  churn 
the  temperature  should  be  from  5 8°  to  6o°.  In  cold 
weather  place  the  cream  jar  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  stir 
frequently  until  the  cream  is  raised  to  the  desired  tempera- 
ture ;  in  hot  weather  use  ice  water,  if  necessary. 

In  churning  it  is  important  that  the  stroke  shall  be  slow 
and  steady.  Rapid  churning  causes  the  cream  to  froth, 
and  spoils  the  texture  of  the  butter.     It  should  take  at 


336      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


least  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes'  churning  to  bring  the 
butter. 

As  soon  as  the  butter  begins  to  form  into  small  masses, 
draw  off  the  buttermilk  and  pour  cold  water  into  the  churn. 
After  a  few  strokes  of  the  dasher,  draw  off  the  water  and 
pour  in  fresh  cold  water,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
every  quart  of  water.  Work  the  butter  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  draw  off  the  water.  Put  the  butter  in  a  wooden  bowl 
and  salt  it,  allowing  one  ounce  of  salt  to  each  pound  of 
butter.  Many  butter-makers  allow  four  extra  ounces  of 
salt  to  every  ten  pounds  of  butter.  If  the  butter  is  to  be 
packed  for  future  use,  this  is  necessary. 

Let  the  salted  butter  stand  in  the  bowl  over  night.  In 
the  morning  work  all  the  buttermilk  and  water  out  of  the 
butter,  and  then  shape  into  any  form  you  please.  Wet 
pieces  of  thin  cotton  in  salt  and  water,  and  wrap  the  rolls 
in  them. 

The  less  milk  there  is  in  the  cream,  the  sooner  the  butter 
will  come.  The  amount  of  butter  to  a  quart  of  cream  will 
depend  upon  the  quality  of  the  cream.  A  quart  of  thick 
cream  will  give  a  pound  of  butter,  whereas  it  may  take 
more  than  two  quarts  of  thin  cream  to  produce  the  same 
amount. 

If  only  one  cow  be  kept  for  family  use,  a  small  stone 
churn  will  be  found  valuable  for  churning  the  small  quan- 
tities of  cream  which  one  will  have.  Of  course,  a  patent 
churn  is  better  for  large  quantities,  as  the  work  can  be  done 
more  easily  with  it. 

Too  much  working  makes  the  butter  tough  and  waxy. 
Work  it  only  enough  to  free  it  from  water  and  buttermilk. 
Never  have  the  hands  touch  the  butter ;  use  wooden  paddles 
for  the  work. 

If  the  cream  be  very  cold  it  will  froth,  and  the  butter  will 
be  a  long  time  in  coming.  When  it  does  come,  it  will  be 
light  and  spongy,  instead  of  being  smooth  and  firm.  Most 
winter  butter  lacks  color.    If  you  wish  to  impart  a  yellow 


FOR  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  ON  FARMS. 


337 


tinge  to  it,  grate  the  dark  orange  part  of  the  carrot,  and 
simmer  it  m  sweet  milk  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  the 
milk,  and,  when  cool,  add  to  the  cream  in  the  churn.  Use 
half  a  pint  of  grated  carrot  and  a  pint  of  milk  for  every 
eight  quarts  of  cream. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Put  a  pan  of  thick  sour  milk  over  a  stewpan  of  hot 
water,  and  heat  almost  to  the  boiling  point.  When  the  pan 
has  been  over  the  water  for  about  six  minutes,  turn  the 
thick  milk  gently  with  a  large  spoon,  getting  the  hot  part 
on  top.  When  the  whey  becomes  so  hot  that  it  cannot  be 
touched  by  the  finger,  turn  the  mass  into  a  strainer  and  let 
the  whey  drain  off.  When  the  curd  is  free  from  whey, 
season  it  with  salt  and  butter,  allowing  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  every  four  quarts  of 
sour  milk.  A  gill  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  also,  may  be  stirred 
into  the  curd.  Press  the  cheese  into  a  bowl,  or  shape  it 
into  balls.    This  cheese  is  good  only  while  it  is  fresh. 

Be  careful  not  to  have  the  milk  too  sour,  or  to  get  the 
curd  too  hot. 


22 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 

IN  every  household  the  time  comes  when  a  knowledge  of 
the  proper  care  of  the  sick  is  desirable.  One  should 
not  wait  for  the  necessity  to  arise  before  acquiring  this 
knowledge.  The  physician  will  do  his  part,  but  the  care 
and  food  are  as  important  as  are  his  medicines.  In  a  book 
of  this  kind  there  is  not  space  completely  to  cover  the  sub- 
ject of  preparation  of  food  for  the  sick,  much  less  the  care 
of  the  sick.  It  is  hoped,  however,  that  the  simple  in- 
structions given  in  this  chapter  may  help  the  inexperi- 
enced to  bring  comfort  and  health  to  their  suffering  ones. 
In  the  body  of  the  book  there  will  be  found  directions  for 
preparing  many  kinds  of  simple  dishes  that  are  suitable  for 
the  invalid,  such  as  simple  soups,  broiled  meat,  fish,  and 
birds,  vegetables,  toasts,  jellies,  and  simple  desserts. 

All  the  food  prepared  for  the  sick  should  be  of  the  best 
quality,  and  cooked  in  the  simplest  and  most  careful  man- 
ner. The  service  should  be  the  daintiest  the  house  affords. 
Let  the  tray  be  covered  with  a  clean,  well-ironed  napkin, 
and  the  china,  glass,  and  silver  be  clean  and  bright.  Tea, 
coffee,  or  chocolate  should  be  taken  to  the  sick-room  in  a 
small  pot  and  poured  in  the  presence  of  the  patient.  Have 
the  cream  and  sugar  in  a  small  pitcher  and  bowl.  Serve 
broth  or  soup  in  a  dainty  bouillon  cup  or  a  pretty  little  bowl. 
Put  cream  or  milk  toast  in  a  small  dish  and  serve  small 
portions  on  a  pretty  plate.  Serve  dry  toast  in  a  fresh  nap- 
kin, and  butter  portions  as  the  patient  requires.  Broiled 
meat  or  fish  should  be  put  on  a  warm  plate,  and  another 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


339 


warm  plate  be  placed  over  this  to  keep  the  food  hot  while 
it  is  being  carried  to  the  patient's  room. 

A  patient  should  not  have  to  wait  for  food  beyond  the 
regular  time.  No  one,  unless  he  has  been  ill,  can  under- 
stand the  terrible  sinking  feeling  that  comes  to  a  weak 
patient  if  the  time  for  his  taking  food  is  forgotten. 

In  caring  for  the  sick  an  infinite  amount  of  patience, 
sympathy,  and  cheerfulness  is  required.  If  one  be  harsh  or 
neglectful,  even  once,  it  may  mean  a  whole  life  of  regret. 

Cleanliness  and  Ventilation. 

The  bedding,  the  clothes  of  the  patient,  and  the  rooms 
must  be  kept  absolutely  sweet  and  clean.  If  it  be  impossi- 
ble to  sweep  the  room,  all  dust  may  be  wiped  from  the  floor 
with  a  dry  cloth.  If  the  room  be  carpeted,  —  which  is  a  pity 
wrhen  one  is  sick,  —  brush  it  with  a  soft  hair  brush,  and  then 
wipe  the  carpet  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm  water.  If 
possible,  ventilate  the  room  two  or  three  times  a  day  by 
having  the  wind  sweep  through  it.  Protect  the  patient  by 
extra  blankets,  and  then  spread  a  sheet  or  blanket  over  the 
head  board,  letting  it  come  down  over  the  head  and  shoul- 
ders of  the  patient.  One  cannot  realize  what  a  restful  tonic 
this  pure  air  is  for  the  patient. 

Bathing. 

Few  things  are  more  refreshing  to  a  sick  person  than  a 
sponge  bath.  It  should  be  given  morning  and  night.  A 
little  alcohol  in  the  water  is  invigorating,  and  prevents  the 
patient  from  taking  cold.  Have  but  little  water  in  the 
sponge,  and  begin  with  the  face  and  neck.  Keep  the  body 
covered,  and  wash  only  a  small  p.irt  at  one  time.  Wipe 
with  a  soft  towel.  At  night  the  patient  may  be  rubbed  with 
alcohol,  using  the  hand.  This  rubbing  often  insures  a  good 
night's  rest.    Rubbing  is  beneficial  at  almost  any  time. 


340     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Turpentine  Applications. 

Refined  turpentine  is  often  very  valuable  in  the  sick-room. 
In  cases  of  inflammation  of  the  bowels,  kidneys,  or  bladder, 
and  of  congestion  of  the  lungs,  a  turpentine  application  often 
will  relieve  the  most  intense  pain.  Indeed,  this  remedy  is 
good  and  safe  for  almost  any  pain  that  can  be  reached  by 
external  applications. 

There  are  two  ways  of  using  the  applications.  When  the 
turpentine  is  to  remain  on  the  patient  for  a  long  time,  mix 
it  with  lard,  and  spread  the  mixture  on  flannel.  Lay  this 
on  the  seat  of  pain.  It  may  be  kept  on  for  several  hours. 
Use  a  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of  turpentine  to  half  a  pint  of 
lard.  If  the  pain  be  intense,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
turpentine  may  be  used. 

Another  method  is  to  wring  flannel  out  of  hot  water, 
sprinkle  the  turpentine  on  this,  and  lay  the  flannel  on  the 
seat  of  pain.  Cover  with  a  dry  flannel,  and  upon  this  lay 
a  soft  towel.  Use  a  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  for  a  sur- 
face about  a  foot  square.  In  case  of  great  pain  even  more 
turpentine  may  be  required.  Few  patients  can  endure  this 
hot  application  more  than  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 
When  the  flannel  is  removed  cover  the  inflamed  part  with 
a  piece  of  soft  linen. 

If  the  pain  come  from  gas  in  the  stomach  or  bowels, 
put  eight  or  ten  drops  of  spirits  of  turpentine  on  a  lump  of 
sugar  and  let  the  patient  eat  this.  Turpentine  is  very  good 
to  give  in  this  way  whenever  there  is  bloating  of  the  bowels 
from  an  accumulation  of  gas. 

To  Relieve  Neuralgia. 

When  one  is  suffering  from  neuralgia  in  the  head,  put  him 
in  a  warm  bed.  Make  a  brick  very  hot  and  cover  it  with 
several  thicknesses  of  flannel.  Fold  a  coarse,  thick  cloth 
and  place  it  on  the  pillow.    Lay  the  brick  on  this  and  wet 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


341 


thoroughly  with  rum.  Rest  the  most  painful  part  of  the 
head  or  face  on  the  brick,  and  throw  a  blanket  over  the 
patient,  covering  the  head.  Keep  covered  in  this  way  until 
the  pain  ceases.  When  the  blanket  is  removed,  wipe  the 
moisture  from  the  head,  face,  and  neck;  then  bathe  in 
alcohol  or  rum,  to  prevent  taking  cold. 

Another  remedy  is  to  make  salt  very  hot  by  stirring  it 
over  the  fire  in  a  frying-pan ;  then  pour  it  into  a  bag,  which 
should  be  securely  tied.  Have  the  patient  lie  down,  and 
cover  him  well.  Place  the  bag  of  hot  salt  on  that  part  of 
the  head  or  face  where  the  pain  is  located.  The  salt  will 
retain  the  heat  a  long  time.  This  method  is  much  easier 
than  the  first,  but  it  will  not  relieve  one  so  quickly  nor  so 
thoroughly. 

To  Keep  Cracked  Ice. 

It  often  happens  that  a  patient  is  obliged  to  take  a  great 
deal  of  cracked  ice.  In  such  a  case  make  a  bag  of  rather 
thin  flannel,  and  cut  a  small  hole  in  the  bottom.  Have  a 
long  tape  run  in  the  hem  at  the  top.  Hang  this  bag  in  a 
large  pitcher,  fastening  it  at  the  top  with  the  tape.  Fill 
the  bag  with  cracked  ice,  and  cover  the  pitcher  with  several 
thicknesses  of  flannel. 

To  Break  Ice  in  a  Sick  Room. 

Place  the  piece  of  ice  on  a  napkin  and  press  a  large  pin 
or  needle  firmly  into  it.  It  will  break  off  smoothly  at  this 
point.  If  ice  be  scarce,  it  is  best  to  put  it  in  the  flannel 
bag  in  one  large  piece  and  chip  it  off  as  required. 

Mutton  Broth. 


1  pound  of  the  scraggy  end  of  the 

neck  of  mutton. 
\%  pints  of  cold  water. 


1  tablespoonful  of  barley. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


342     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


See  that  the  meat  is  perfectly  sweet.  Cut  off  all  the  fat ; 
then  cut  the  lean  meat  in  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  the  bones  and  cold  water.  Place  the  stewpan  on  the 
stove  ;  and  when  the  broth  begins  to  boil,  skim  it  and  set 
back  where  it  will  just  bubble.  Put  the  barley  in  another 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  place  on  the  fire. 
Cook  for  one  hour  ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and,  after  put- 
ting the  barley  with  the  broth,  cook  for  three  hours  longer. 
Add  the  salt,  and  strain  the  broth  ;  or,  if  the  patient  can 
bear  it,  remove  the  bones  and  serve  the  meat  and  barley  in 
the  broth. 

Chicken  Broth. 

yz  of  a  fowl. 

i  quart  of  water. 

Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Free  the  fowl  from  fat  and  skin,  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
breaking  the  bones.  Wash  the  meat,  and,  putting  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  cold  water,  place  it  on  the  fire.  When 
the  broth  begins  to  boil,  skim  it  carefully.  Draw  the  stew- 
pan back  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range,  where  the  broth  will 
only  bubble  for  three  hours.    Add  the  salt,  and  strain. 

A  tablespoonful  of  rice,  tapioca,  or  sago  may  be  cooked 
in  this  broth,  if  it  be  thought  best  for  the  patient. 

Clam  Broth. 

Get  a  dozen  clams  in  the  shell,  and  wash  them  in  several 
waters ;  then  soak  them  for  an  hour  in  a  pan  of  cold  water. 
On  taking  them  from  the  water,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  and 
set  on  the  fire.  Add  a  gill  of  water,  and,  covering  the  stew- 
pan, cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  the  liquor  through 
a  fine  strainer.  Taste  to  see  if  salt  enough.  It  may  be  too 
salt ;  in  which  case  add  a  little  boiling  water  to  the  broth. 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


343 


Mutton  Custard. 


1  quart  of  milk. 

2  ounces  of  mutton  suet. 


I  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
l/z  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Stick  of  cinnamon,  5  inches  long. 

The  suet  must  be  from  the  kidneys ;  sweet,  and  free  from 
all  tough  membrane.  Shred  it  very  fine,  and  put  it  in  the 
double-boiler  with  the  cinnamon  and  milk  j  reserving,  how- 
ever, one  gill  of  the  milk.  Cook  for  one  hour,  then  strain. 
Return  the  strained  liquid  to  the  double- boiler,  and  place 
on  the  fire.  Mix  the  flour  and  cold  milk  to  a  smooth  paste, 
and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  Add  the  salt,  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes.  Give  the  patient  as  much  of  this  as  he  will 
willingly  take  ;  say,  half  a  pint  every  four  or  five  hours. 
Keep  the  patient  warm  and  quiet.  This  is  a  particularly 
good  remedy  in  severe  cases  of  bowel  and  stomach  trouble, 
being  nourishing  and  soothing. 


Get  ten  or  a  dozen  good  oysters  in  the  shell.  Wash  the 
shells,  and  place  them  in  an  old  baking-pan.  Put  the  pan 
into  a  hot  oven,  keeping  it  there  until  the  shells  begin  to 
open.  Remove  the  upper  shells  and  place  the  under  ones, 
containing  the  oysters,  on  a  large  plate.  Serve  at  once. 
The  oysters  should  be  seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper. 


Put  eight  or  ten  large  oysters  in  a  little  fancy  dish  or 
saucer,  and  place  in  the  steamer.  Cook  for  about  five 
minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve  at 
once  with  hot  toast. 

Oyster  Roast. 

Have  a  slice  of  crisp  toast  in  a  little  dish.  Put  half  a 
pint  of  oysters  in  a  saucepan,  and  set  on  the  fire.  When 


Oysters  Roasted  in  the  Shell. 


Steamed  Oysters. 


344     Miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

they  boil,  skim  them,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter.  Pour  the  oysters  and  liquor  on  the  toast  and  serve 
at  once. 

Beef  Tea. 

Put  in  a  large-mouthed  bottle  one  pound  of  beef,  free  of 
fat,  and  chopped  fine.  Add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that 
time  place  the  bottle  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water.  Place 
the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  heat  the  water  slowly  almost  to  the 
boiling  point,  without  letting  it  boil.  Cook  the  beef  for  two 
hours ;  then  strain,  and  season  with  salt. 

The  thick  sediment  which  falls  to  the  bottom  when  the 
tea  has  stood  awhile  is  the  most  nutritious  part,  yet  many 
people  serve  only  the  clear  and  poorer  part  to  the  patient. 
It  is  to  keep  this  sediment  (the  albuminoids)  in  a  soft, 
digestible  condition,  that  care  is  taken  not  to  let  the  water 
which  surrounds  the  bottle  boil.  Great  heat  hardens  the 
albuminoids. 

If  a  patient  take  a  great  deal  of  beef  tea,  the  flavor  may 
be  changed  occasionally  by  putting  a  piece  of  stick  cinna- 
mon about  an  inch  square  into  the  bottle  with  the  meat  and 
water. 

Beef  Tea,  No.  2. 

Put  into  a  bowl  a  pound  of  beef,  free  of  fat,  and  chopped 
fine.  Add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  stir  well.  Place 
the  bowl  in  the  refrigerator  for  four  hours.  When  the  tea 
is  to  be  given  to  the  patient,  strain  into  a  saucepan  the 
quantity  required.  Season  it  with  salt,  and  place  the  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire.  Stir  constantly  until  the  tea  becomes  hot, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

This  tea  has  a  peculiarly  bright  flavor,  and  affords  a 
pleasant  change  from  that  made  by  long  steeping  in  hot 
water. 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


345 


Beef  Juice. 

Use  a  piece  of  round  or  flank  steak  about  an  inch  thick. 
Broil  it  for  eight  minutes ;  then  put  it  on  a  warm  plate  and, 
after  cutting  it  in  small  pieces,  press  in  the  lemon  squeezer. 
Season  with  a  little  salt.  This  may  be  fed  to  the  patient ; 
or  a  little  bread  may  be  soaked  in  it ;  or  add  a  little  hot 
water,  and  you  have  beef  tea. 

Round  Steak. 

When  you  cannot  get  a  tender,  juicy  steak,  or  when  the 
patient's  power  of  mastication  is  not  good,  a  nutritious  and 
digestible  steak  can  be  prepared  from  the  round  of  beef. 
Lay  a  thin  slice  of  round  steak  on  a  board.  Scrape  one 
surface  with  a  sharp  knife  until  there  is  nothing  left  on  that 
side  but  the  tough  fibres  ;  then  turn  the  meat  over,  and 
scrape  the  other  side  in  like  manner.  When  the  tender 
meat  is  scraped  off,  put  it  in  a  small  dish.  Press  this  into 
a  square,  having  it  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Rub  the  bars 
of  a  double-broiler  with  a  little  butter,  and  lay  the  steak 
between  them.  Broil  over  clear  coals  for  five  minutes  ; 
then  place  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  a  little  butter  on  the 
steak,  season  with  salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches. 

Scrape  some  beef  in  the  manner  described  for  preparing 
round  steak.  Season  it  generously  with  salt.  After  cutting 
four  slices  of  stale  bread  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  spread  the  beef 
on  two  of  the  slices,  and  lay  the  other  slices  on  top,  press- 
ing them  down  carefully.  Cut  them  into  pieces  about  an 
inch  square.  Arrange  these  tastefully  on  a  fringed  napkin 
or  in  a  pretty  little  dish. 


346     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Flour  Gruel. 

I  pint  of  milk. 

I  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour. 

Y  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

After  reserving  half  a  gill  of  the  milk,  put  the  remainder 
in  the  double-boiler  and  set  on  the  fire.  Mix  the  flour  with 
the  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  for 
half  an  hour.    Add  the  salt ;  then  strain  and  serve. 


Oatmeal  Gruel. 

1  quart  of  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Have  the  water  boiling  in  a  stewpan.  Stir  rapidly,  and 
sprinkle  the  oatmeal  into  it,  stirring  all  the  while.  Cover, 
and  set  back  where  it  will  cook  gently  for  two  hours.  At 
the  end  of  that  time  add  the  salt,  and  serve.  This  gruel 
may  be  strained  or  not,  as  may  be  best  for  the  patient.  A 
part  of  the  gruel  may  be  poured  into  a  cup  and  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  milk  or  cream  be  added  to  it. 

If  the  gruel  be  liked  thick,  use  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oat- 
meal. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. 


i  quart  of  boiling  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal. 

i  tablespoonful  of  flour. 


i  gill  of  cold  water. 
Yz  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Put  the  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  the  fire. 
Mix  the  flour  and  meal  with  the  cold  water,  and  stir  into 
the  boiling  water.  Boil  gently  for  two  hours.  Add  the 
salt,  and  strain ;  then  serve.  A  little  cream  may  be  added 
to  the  gruel  when  it  is  served. 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


347 


Arrowroot  Gruel. 

Y  pint  of  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot. 

Y  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Reserve  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  put  the  remainder 
on  to  boil.  Mix  the  arrowroot  with  the  cold  milk,  and  stir 
into  the  boiling  milk.  Add  the  salt,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes. 

Cracker  Gruel. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs.  I  I  gill  of  boiling  water, 
i  gill  of  milk.  I  %  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  the  cracker  crumbs  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  the  boil- 
ing water  upon  them,  stirring  all  the  time.  Place  the  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire  and  stir  the  mixture  until  it  boils.  Add  the 
milk  and  salt,  and  continue  stirring  until  the  gruel  boils 
again.    Serve  at  once. 

For  some  tastes  half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  is  an  agree- 
able addition. 

Milk  Punch. 

Y  pint  of  milk. 

I  heaped  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
I  tablespoonful  of  rum. 

Mix  these  ingredients  and  serve  at  once  j  or  give  the 
punch  a  froth  by  pouring  the  mixture  from  one  bowl  to 
another,  holding  the  bowl  high  as  the  liquid  is  poured 
from  it. 

Egg  Tea. 

I  gill  of  hot  water  or  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

*  egg. 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  beat 
the  sugar  into  it.    Next  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  and  beat 


348      MISS  PARLOA'S  young  housekeeper. 


well.  Pour  the  hot  milk  or  water  on  this,  and  serve.  If 
you  choose,  a  little  nutmeg  or  wine  may  be  added  to  the 
mixture. 

Eggnog. 

Eggnog  is  made  the  same  as  egg  tea,  using  cold  milk 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  wine,  or  rum. 

Rice  Water. 

^  gill  of  rice. 

pints  of  cold  water. 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  with  the  water  in  a  saucepan. 
Place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Strain 
the  liquid,  and  season  with  the  salt. 

Half  water  and  half  milk  may  be  used  in  this  drink,  if 
you  prefer. 

Apple  Water. 

Bake  three  tart  apples  in  rather  a  quick  oven  until  they 
are  tender.  Sprinkle  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  them, 
and  return  to  the  oven  until  the  sugar  becomes  browned. 
Crush  the  apples,  and  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon 
them.  Let  them  stand  for  fifty  minutes ;  then  strain  and 
cool  the  water. 

Barley  Water. 

gill  of  barley, 
pints  of  water. 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wash  the  barley,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  stewpan, 
with  one  pint  of  cold  water.  Cook  for  one  hour.  Pour  off 
the  water  and  rinse  the  barley.  Add  the  pint  and  a  half  of 
cold  water,  and  cook  for  two  hours  longer.    Season  with  the 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


349 


salt,  and  strain.  If  lemon  be  good  for  the  patient,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  juice  to  the  strained  liquid,  and  sweeten 
with  two  lumps  of  sugar. 


Crust  Coffee. 

Dry  some  crusts  of  bread  in  the  oven ;  then  toast  them 
until  dark  brown.  Break  up  these  crusts,  and  measure  out 
half  a  pint.  Put  these  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  boiling  water  upon  them.  Cover  the  bowl  for  ten 
minutes,  then  strain  the  coffee.  This  may  be  served  hot  or 
cold. 


Wine  Whey. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  into  a  double-boiler,  and 
when  it  boils  add  a  gill  of  sherry.  Stir  well,  and  let  it  cook 
until  the  curd  and  whey  separate.  If  the  wine  be  quite 
sour,  the  milk  will  separate  at  once  ;  sometimes  it  is  so 
sweet  that  an  extra  quantity  is  required  to  curdle  the  milk. 
If  there  be  any  objection  to  the  use  of  more  wine  in  a  case 
like  this,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  Pour  the  liquid 
through  a  fine  strainer. 


Moss  Lemonade. 


I  tablespoonful  of  sea-moss  farina. 
I  quart  of  boiling  water. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


3  lemons. 

teaspoonful  of  salt. 


Put  the  farina  in  a  bowl  or  pitcher,  and  pour  the  boiling 
water  on  it.  Stir  well,  and  steep  for  an  hour.  Add  the 
salt,  sugar,  and  lemon,  and  strain.  This  is  an  excellent 
drink  when  a  cold  has  settled  on  the  lungs.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

Should  there  be  any  reason  why  the  patient  cannot  take 
lemon,  use  some  other  flavor. 


350     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Restorative  Jelly. 


%  box  of  gelatine, 
i  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gum 
arabic. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice. 

2  cloves. 

y2  pint  of  port. 


Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  bowl  for  two  hours.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  place  the  bowl  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook,  stirring  frequently,  until  all  the  ingredients 
are  dissolved.  Strain,  and  set  away  to  harden.  The  bowl 
must  be  kept  covered  all  the  time  the  jelly  is  soaking  and 
cooking. 

This  jelly  is  to  be  used  when  the  patient  finds  it  difficult 
to  swallow  either  liquid  or  solid  food.  A  small  piece  of  it, 
placed  in  the  mouth,  melts  slowly,  and  is  swallowed  un- 
consciously. The  sugar  may  be  omitted,  and  a  gill  of  port 
and  a  gill  of  beef  juice  be  used  ;  the  beef  juice  to  be  added 
when  the  jelly  is  taken  from  the  fire.  Other  stimulants  may 
be  substituted  for  port. 


Senna  Prunes. 

24  prunes. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  senna  leaves. 
1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Steep  the  senna  in  the  water,  where  it  will  keep  hot  for 
two  hours ;  then  strain  the  water.  Wash  the  stewpan,  and 
put  into  it  the  senna  water  and  the  prunes,  well  washed. 
Cover,  and  place  the  stewpan  on  a  part  of  the  range  where 
the  contents  will  just  simmer.  Cook  until  the  prunes  have 
absorbed  all  the  water ;  then  put  them  in  a  jar,  and  use  as 
required.  This  is  a  mild  and  pleasant  remedy  for  constipa- 
tion. The  prunes  are  delicious,  and  will  keep  for  months. 
They  are  convenient  to  take  when  travelling. 


CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


351 


A  Gargle  for  a  Sore  Throat. 

Put  into  a  goblet  of  cold  water  one  teaspoonful  of  tinc- 
ture of  muriate  of  iron,  and  one  heaped  teaspoonful  of 
chlorate  of  potash.  Gargle  the  throat  with  this.  It  will  do 
no  harm  if  a  small  quantity  of  the  liquid  be  unintentionally 
swallowed. 

Camphorated  Oil. 

Put  into  a  large  bottle  four  ounces  of  olive  oil  and  four 
of  spirits  of  camphor,  and  shake  well.  When  there  is  pain 
in  the  chest  or  lungs  rub  with  the  camphorated  oil.  This 
is  excellent  to  use  in  case  of  sprains  or  bruises. 

For  a  Cold  in  the  Head. 

Mix  together  in  a  large  bottle  four  ounces  of  ammonia 
and  four  of  camphor.  A  cologne  bottle  with  a  glass  stop- 
per is  the  best  for  this  preparation.  When  there  are  symp- 
toms of  a  cold  in  the  head  inhale  this  mixture  frequently. 

Lime  Water. 

Put  about  four  ounces  of  quicklime  in  a  bowl,  and  pour 
upon  it  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Stir  the  mixture  well, 
and  cover.  Let  this  stand  for  four  or  five  hours.  At  the 
end  of  that  time  pour  off  the  clear  liquid  and  bottle  it. 
Throw  away  the  sediment. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 


WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 

THE  season  of  house-cleaning  is  greeted  with  different 
degrees  of  welcome,  or  horror,  by  the  several  mem- 
bers of  the  family.  Some  people  appear  to  think  there 
is  no  good  reason  for  this  annual  thorough  cleaning  of 
the  house ;  others,  however,  are  really  glad  when  the 
time  comes  round  again,  because  it  furnishes  an  oppor- 
tunity to  take  account  of  stock,  as  it  were,  discarding  the 
worthless,  and  renewing  wherever  it  is  necessary.  When 
the  cleaning  is  finished,  pride  and  content  come  with  the 
feeling  that  rest  and  comfort  can  be  taken  with  a  clear 
conscience  in  a  house  that  one  knows  is  in  good  condition 
from  top  to  bottom. 

System  Absolutely  Necessary. 

Every  house  certainly  should  have  a  thorough  cleaning 
every  year,  that  there  may  be  a  check  put  upon  the  accu- 
mulation of  dust  or  dirt  which  might  breed  disease,  even  if 
no  other  reason  influenced  the  housekeeper.  This  yearly 
cleaning  need  not  be  a  season  of  discomfort  to  the  family. 
If  possible,  a  little  extra  help  should  be  engaged  ;  but  even 
if  this  be  out  of  the  question,  the  work  can  be  done  in  such 
a  way  that  every  one  shall  not  be  worn  out  by  the  time  the 
cleaning  is  finished.  Too  much  should  not  be  attempted 
at  once.  If  one  room  be  taken  at  a  time,  and  be  finished 
before  work  is  begun  in  another,  the  whole  house  can  be 
cleaned  without  any  great  difficulty.    It  is  always  wise,  if 


WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 


353 


possible,  to  wait  until  the  necessity  for  furnace  or  stove 
fires  is  past.  If  the  house  be  heated  by  stoves,  and  there 
be  some  rooms  in  which  a  fire  is  needed  only  in  the  coldest 
weather,  such  rooms  may  be  cleaned  first,  the  stoves  in  the 
other  rooms  being  removed  later.  There  should  be  a  per- 
fect system  in  doing  this  work.  Housekeepers  differ  in 
regard  to  the  part  of  the  house  where  the  cleaning  should 
begin,  some  starting  with  the  attic  and  others  with  the 
cellar.  Since  the  furnace  must  be  cleaned  some  time,  and 
dust  may  escape  through  the  pipes  into  the  various  rooms 
above,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  proper  place  to  begin  is 
down- stairs. 

Cleaning  the  Cellar. 

In  no  part  of  the  house  is  it  so  important  that  the  clean- 
ing be  thoroughly  done  as  in  the  cellar.  Not  a  corner 
should  be  slighted.  Begin  with  the  furnace.  Have  the 
registers  closed  in  every  room.  Remove  all  the  cinders 
and  ashes,  and  clean  out  all  the  flues  and  pipes.  Many 
housekeepers  have  the  pipes  removed,  but  the  smoke-pipe  is 
really  the  only  one  that  it  is  necessary  to  take  down.  This 
pipe  is  liable  to  rust,  because  of  the  moisture  it  gathers 
from  the  chimney  ;  nevertheless,  if  there  be  no  way  of  heat- 
ing and  drying  the  house  during  a  cold,  damp  period  in  sum- 
mer except  by  building  a  fire  in  the  furnace,  it  would  be 
cheaper  to  renew  this  smoke-pipe  ever}7  few  years  than  run 
the  risk  of  having  the  family  made  ill  from  receiving  a  chill. 
While  the  men  are  in  the  house  to  clean  the  furnace,  it 
would  be  economy  to  have  them  clean  the  flues  in  the  range, 
and  also  the  chimneys.  Open  the  cellar  windows  to  bring 
everything  into  the  light.  Have  the  coal  bins  cleaned. 
Brush  everything  free  from  dust.  Now  sweep  the  ceiling 
and  walls  as  well  as  the  floor.  Brush  the  walls  once  more. 
Wash  the  windows  and  any  closets,  shelves,  or  tables  there 
may  be  in  the  cellar. 

23 


354     Miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Do  not  Omit  Whitewashing. 

Now  have  the  walls  whitewashed.  Before  the  various 
articles  stored  in  the  cellar  are  put  back  in  place,  brush 
them  again.  Sweep  the  floor  once  more.  Paint  with  black 
enamel  varnish  the  iron  parts  of  the  furnace,  and  also  any 
iron  pipes  that  may  be  exposed  to  moisture.  An  excellent 
whitewash  may  be  made  by  putting  eight  quarts  of  un- 
slaked lime  into  a  large  tub,  and  pouring  over  it  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  a  paste.  Stir  well,  and  cover  until 
cold,  stirring  occasionally,  that  the  wash  may  be  smooth. 
Dissolve  one  quart  of  salt  in  two  quarts  of  hot  water.  Dis- 
solve also  half  an  ounce  of  indigo  in  about  a  pint  of  hot 
water.  Add  these  substances  to  the  slaked  and  cooled 
lime.  Now  beat  well,  and  add  enough  cold  water  to  make 
the  mixture  the  consistency  of  thin  cream.  The  wash  will 
then  be  ready  to  use. 

A  tub  of  charcoal  and  another  of  lime  are  excellent 
things  to  keep  in  the  cellar.  They  make  it  sweeter  and 
dryer,  and  the  charcoal  is,  of  course,  very  convenient  to 
have  on  hand  for  fuel.  The  unslaked  lime  should  be 
put  in  a  tub  or  barrel,  with  space  for  it  to  expand  to  twice 
its  bulk.  It  slakes  in  the  air  and  expands  rapidly  during 
the  process. 

From  Cellar  to  Attic. 

After  the  cellar  is  cleaned,  the  next  move  is  to  begin  at 
the  top  of  the  house  and  work  down.  It  is  not  safe  in  these 
days,  when  houses  are  kept  almost  as  warm  in  winter  as 
they  become  in  summer,  to  take  it  for  granted  that  anything 
is  perfectly  free  from  carpet-bugs,  moths,  and  other  insects. 
Every  article  in  the  storeroom  should  be  examined,  brushed, 
and  shaken.  All  the  boxes,  drawers,  and  closets  should  be 
brushed,  wiped,  and  lined  with  new  paper.  As  a  measure 
of  safety  all  receptacles  should  be  saturated  with  naphtha 


WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 


35  5 


just  before  their  contents  are  replaced.  Woollen  goods, 
furs,  and  feathers  should  be  wet  with  naphtha  and  folded  in 
old  cotton  or  linen  sheets.  They  will  be  perfectly  safe  for 
a  year  or  more,  provided  they  have  been  thoroughly  shaken 
and  brushed,  so  that  no  insects'  eggs  remain  in  them. 
Pieces  of  carpets  and  other  large  articles  should  be  hung 
out  of  doors,  on  lines,  before  being  put  away. 

Having  taken  care  of  the  closets,  drawers,  boxes,  and 
stored  goods,  the  next  thing  will  be  to  clean  the  room. 
Brush  the  articles  of  furniture  and  set  them  outside  the 
room.  Brush  the  walls,  ceiling,  and  windows.  After 
sweeping  the  floor  wash  the  windows  and  woodwork,  and 
also  the  floor,  wiping  very  dry.  Let  the  room  air  for  an 
hour  or  more  \  then  return  all  the  articles  to  their  places. 

Taking  up  and  Cleaning  Carpets. 

Have  two  strong  sheets  made  of  unbleached  cotton.  Re- 
move the  carpet  tacks  with  a  tack-lifter,  being  careful  to  put 
every  one  of  them  in  a  box  or  bowl.  It  is  not  only  ex- 
tremely painful,  but  also  dangerous,  to  step  on  a  rusty  tack, 
and  the  housekeeper  should  make  it  a  matter  of  conscience 
to  see  to  it  that  none  are  left  lying  about.  When  all  the 
tacks  have  been  removed  fold  the  carpet  carefully,  length- 
wise ;  then  roll  it  up  and  put  it  in  one  of  the  sheets,  tying 
this.  Put  the  linings  in  the  other  sheet.  Take  both  sheets 
into  the  yard  or  some  field  near  by,  and  after  spreading 
the  linings,  sweep  them  on  both  sides,  pile  them  up,  and 
cover  with  the  sheet.  Spread  the  carpet  and  beat  with  a 
rattan  or  long  switch.  Sweep  it,  and  then  turn  it  over  and 
beat  again.  Let  it  lie  on  the  grass,  wrong  side  up,  until 
the  room  is  ready. 

The  small  yards  in  city  houses  are  not  the  proper  places 
for  cleaning  carpets,  as  the  dust  rises  and  enters  all  the 
surrounding  houses.  There  is  in  some  cities  a  law  against 
beating  carpets  in  such  narrow  quarters. 


3 so      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Sweeping  and  Dusting. 

When  the  carpet  and  linings  have  been  removed  from 
the  room,  sprinkle  the  floor  with  either  moistened  sawdust, 
fine  sand,  or  bits  of  damp  paper ;  then  sweep  up  the  dust. 
Go  over  the  floor  a  second  time.  Brush  the  ceiling  and 
walls  of  the  room  and  closets,  being  careful  to  get  every 
crack  free  from  dust.  Clean,  with  a  small  brush,  the  tops 
of  the  doors  and  windows,  the  window  sashes,  the  ledges 
and  blinds,  and  all  the  grooves  in  the  woodwork.  For  the 
walls  and  ceiling  use  a  broom  covered  with  Canton  flannel, 
or  any  old  flannel.  Let  the  strokes  on  the  walls  be  straight 
downward.  If  there  be  a  fireplace  in  the  room  spread 
thick  papers  on  the  hearth  and  clean  both  the  grate  and 
fireplace.  Take  the  bedstead  apart  and  lay  each  piece  on 
the  floor,  grooved  side  up.  Be  careful  that  there  is  not  a 
particle  of  dust  left  in  it.  Pour  naphtha  into  every  groove. 
Be  generous,  for  it  is  not  expensive  and  will  hurt  nothing. 
Have  near  by  a  bowl  of  naphtha,  into  which  dip  the  ends  of 
the  slats.  If  there  have  been  any  indications  of  insect  life 
in  the  bed  or  room,  spray  all  the  cracks  in  the  floor,  walls, 
and  woodwork.  Now  sweep  the  floor  for  the  third  time  and 
wash  it  with  hot  diluted  lime  water,  which  is  made  by  pour- 
ing four  quarts  of  boiling  water  upon  one  quart  of  quicklime, 
and  letting  the  mixture  stand  covered  for  several  hours  j 
then  pouring  into  another  pail  the  clear  water.  Put  one 
quart  of  this  water  to  two  gallons  of  hot.  The  boards  will 
be  made  whiter  and  sweeter  by  the  use  of  the  lime  water. 

Washing  Painted  Surfaces. 

Next  wash  the  paint.  If  it  be  white  do  not  use  ordinary 
soap.  Wring  a  flannel  cloth  out  of  hot  water  and  dip  it 
lightly  in  whiting.  Rub  with  this,  and  then  wash  off  all  the 
whiting  ;  next  wipe  with  the  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water, 
and  finally  rub  with  a  dry  flannel  until  the  surface  is  per- 


WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 


357 


fectly  dry.  Have  a  pointed  stick  for  all  the  grooves  and 
corners.  If  the  woodwork  be  grooved  a  great  deal,  as  is 
now  the  fashion,  a  small  scrubbing  brush,  such  as  is  sold 
for  cleaning  kitchen  boards,  will  be  found  helpful,  as  a  few 
strokes  the  length  of  a  long  grooved  panel  will  clean  it  per- 
fectly. If  soap  be  preferred  to  whiting,  use  the  white  castile, 
as  this  will  not  turn  the  paint  yellow,  nor  will  it  soften  it, 
as  is  apt  to  be  the  case  with  soaps  in  which  the  alkali 
is  strong.  Now  wash  the  blinds,  then  the  window  casings 
and  ledges,  and  finally  the  glass  of  the  windows. 

When  cleaning  paint  it  is  well  not  to  have  the  cloth  so 
wet  that  the  water  will  run  on  the  paint,  as  it  will  leave 
streaks.  Wash  only  a  small  place  at  a  time.  Wash  the 
blinds  with  clear  water.  When  you  come  to  the  window 
ledges  do  not  use  so  much  water  that  it  will  run  down 
on  the  outside  of  the  house,  marring  the  appearance  of 
the  walls.    Always  rub  with  the  grain  of  the  wood. 

Take  the  covers  from  the  furniture,  and  dust  again,  wash- 
ing the  mirror  in  the  dressing-case.  Clean  and  polish  the 
furniture. 

Laying  the  Carpet. 

Lay  the  carpet  linings  on  the  floor,  putting  a  small  tack 
here  and  there  to  keep  them  in  place.  Put  the  carpet  on 
the  floor,  unrolling  it  in  the  direction  in  which  it  is  to  be 
laid.  Begin  to  tack  it  at  the  end  of  the  room  which  is  the 
most  irregular.  If  there  be  a  fireplace  or  bay-window  in 
the  room,  fit  the  carpet  around  these  places  first.  Use 
large  tacks  to  hold  the  carpet  temporarily  in  place  ;  they 
can  be  withdrawn  when  the  work  is  finished.  When  the 
carpet  is  fitted  to  a  place,  use  small  tacks  to  keep  it  down. 
Tack  one  end  of  the  carpet,  stretching  it  well ;  then  a  side, 
then  the  other  end,  and  finally  the  other  side.  Be  careful 
to  keep  the  lines  straight,  and  to  have  the  carpet  fit  tightly ; 
for  if  it  be  loose,  it  will  not  only  look  bad,  but  will  not 
wear  well. 


358      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


When  the  carpet  is  laid,  pour  a  little  naphtha  on  any 
soiled  places,  and  rub  with  a  piece  of  flannel  until  the  spots 
disappear.  Always  have  a  window  open  at  such  times,  to 
allow  the  gas  to  escape.  Put  about  six  quarts  of  warm 
water  in  a  pail  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  household 
ammonia.  Wring  a  woollen  cloth  out  of  this,  and  wipe  the 
carpet. 

Put  the  furniture  and  other  articles  in  place.  When  all 
the  chambers  are  finished,  clean  the  hall  and  stairs.  All 
the  chambers  and  upper  halls  are  to  be  cleaned  in  the 
same  manner,  one  room  at  a  time.  If  the  stairs  be  car- 
peted, take  up  the  carpets  and  have  them  cleaned  and  put 
away  until  all  the  front  part  of  the  house  has  been  cleaned. 

Rooms  on  the  First  Floor. 

The  rooms  on  this  floor  nowadays  are  generally  shut  off 
by  portieres,  over  and  under  which  the  dust  sifts  into  the 
adjoining  rooms  when  one  of  the  series  is  being  cleaned, 
unless  the  housekeeper  provide  the  proper  screens.  Have 
for  this  purpose  sheets  of  strong,  unbleached  cotton,  a  yard 
longer  and  wider  than  the  height  and  width  of  the  openings. 
If  you  take  down  your  portieres  and  tack  these  sheets  on  the 
top  and  at  the  bottom  of  the  casings,  the  other  rooms  will 
be  well  protected.  Now  dust  and  remove  the  small  orna- 
ments. Beat  and  brush  the  upholstered  furniture.  Re- 
move from  the  room  as  much  of  the  furniture  as  possible. 
Take  down  the  window  draperies  and  shake  the  dust  from 
them  in  the  yard.  Have  the  dining-room  table  made  its 
full  length,  and  lay  an  old  sheet  over  it  Spread  the 
draperies  on  this,  one  at  a  time,  and  wipe  them  with  a 
clean  piece  of  cheese-cloth  ;  then  fold  them  carefully,  if 
they  are  not  to  be  hung  again  until  fall,  and,  pinning  them 
in  clean  sheets,  put  them  away  in  boxes  or  drawers.  Next 
take  down  the  shades,  and  after  wiping  them  with  a  clean 
cloth  roll  them  up  and  put  them  aside  until  the  room  is 


WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 


359 


cleaned.  Cover  the  large  pieces  of  furniture,  and  if  there 
be  carpets  to  be  taken  up  proceed  in  these  rooms  as 
directed  for  the  bedrooms.  If  there  be  brasses,  take  them 
to  the  laundry  or  kitchen  to  be  cleaned.  Take  down  the 
shades  of  the  chandeliers  and  wash  them.  If  the  carpets 
are  to  be  taken  up,  they  should  be  removed  at  once,  and  if 
they  are  not,  brush  the  ceiling,  walls,  woodwork,  windows, 
blinds,  and  ledges,  and  then  sweep  the  carpet.  When  the 
dust  settles  sweep  a  second  time  ;  be  careful  to  brush  the 
corners  and  edges  thoroughly  with  a  small  broom.  After 
the  carpet  is  thoroughly  swept,  saturate  the  edges  and  cor- 
ners with  naphtha,  leaving  the  doors  and  windows  open,  of 
course.  Now  clean  the  paint  and  windows.  When  the 
room  is  clean  put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  household  am- 
monia in  about  six  quarts  of  water,  and,  wringing  a  clean 
cloth  out  of  this,  wipe  the  carpet.  Change  the  water  as 
soon  as  it  becomes  dark.  Replace  the  furnishings.  Of 
course,  if  the  floors  be  of  polished  hard  wood,  half  the 
burden  of  house-cleaning  is  removed. 


Kitchen,  Pantry,  and  Closets. 

Last,  but  not  least,  on  the  programme  comes  the  back 
part  of  the  house.  Beginning  with  the  china  closet,  remove 
and  wipe  all  the  dishes.  Brush  the  walls,  ceiling,  and 
shelves.  Take  the  drawers  to  the  kitchen  and  wash  and 
wipe  them,  afterward  drying  them  in  the  sun  or  before  the 
fire.  Wash  all  the  woodwork  and  the  floors  before  repla- 
cing the  dishes.  Clean  the  kitchen  closets  and  pantry  in 
the  same  manner.  Wash  and  scour  all  the  wooden,  tin,  and 
iron  utensils,  getting  them  perfectly  dry  and  sweet  in  the 
sunlight,  if  possible.  Line  the  shelves  and  floor  of  the  pot 
closet  with  thick  brown  paper,  and  put  the  utensils  in 
place.  Take  down  the  kitchen  shades  and  wipe  them  with 
a  clean  cloth.  Brush  the  ceiling  and  walls.  If  the  walls 
be  painted,  wash  them  in  warm  ammonia  water,  —  four 


360     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

tablespoonfuls  of  ammonia  to  six  quarts  of  water.  Have 
ready  a  second  pail  of  clear  hot  water  and  a  clean  cloth. 
Go  over  the  washed  space  with  the  clean  cloth  and  water ; 
then  wipe  dry.  If  the  woodwork  be  hard  or  grained,  wash 
it  in  the  same  manner ;  using,  however,  only  half  as  much 
ammonia.  Wash  the  windows,  scour  the  tables  and  sink, 
clean  the  pipes  and  faucets,  black  the  stove,  and  wash  the 
floor.  When  all  this  is  done  go  over  the  woodwork  with  a 
flannel  dampened  with  linseed  oil  and  turpentine,  —  half  of 
each ;  then  rub  with  a  dry  flannel.  The  laundry  and  back 
halls  should  receive  the  same  attention.  Then  the  piazza 
and  yard  should  be  put  in  order. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 

Points  of  Difference  in  Various  Brands  of  Flour. 

MUCH  trouble  in  cooking  arises  from  the  difference  in 
various  brands  of  flour.  There  are  often,  indeed, 
variations  in  the  same  brand.  All  are  caused  by  the  differ- 
ent modes  of  making  the  flour,  and  changes  in  the  kind  of 
wheat  used. 

When  flour  is  made  by  the  roller  process,  two  cupfuls 
will  make  a  much  stiffer  batter  than  flour  made  by  the 
old  process  of  grinding  between  stones,  or  produced  by 
first  crushing  by  rollers  and  then  grinding  between  stones. 
Millers  all  over  the  country  are  always  looking  for,  and  fre- 
quently making,  improvements  in  the  processes  which  they 
are  accustomed  to  follow.  This  necessarily  results  in  chan- 
ges in  the  texture  and  quality  of  their  products.  Then,  too, 
it  makes  a  difference  whether  the  wheat  used  is  spring  or 
winter  wheat.  In  the  Eastern  States,  where  mills  are  few, 
the  flour  comes  largely  from  Minnesota  and  other  Western 
States.  This  flour  has  in  the  last  fifteen  or  twenty  years 
been  made  almost  wholly  by  the  roller  process,  and  chiefly 
of  spring  wheat.  The  distinguishing  quality  of  this  flour  is 
this  :  if  rubbed  between  the  fingers  it  feels  rough  and  granu- 
lar, and  if  pressed  in  the  hand  it  will  not  hold  its  shape,  but 
fall  apart  as  granulated  sugar  would.  When  using  this  flour 
by  measure,  allow  one  eighth  more  wetting  than  for  flour 
made  by  grinding  between  stones. 


362      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Recently  a  number  of  millers  have  modified  the  new  pro- 
cess by  using  the  rollers  for  cleansing,  separating,  and  grind- 
ing until  the  last  stages  of  the  work,  when  the  flour  is  put 
between  stones  and  ground  smooth  and  fine.  When  this 
is  done  the  distinguishing  features  between  the  old  and  new 
processes  are  lost.  This  flour  is  smooth  to  the  touch,  will 
keep  its  shape  if  pressed  in  the  hand,  and  will  not  absorb 
as  much  moisture  as  the  more  granular  kind.  It  can  be 
used  equally  well  for  bread,  cake,  and  pastry.  Some  of  the 
mills  in  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  Ohio,  and  Michigan  make 
this  flour  in  perfection. 

Flour  that  is  made  of  new  spring  wheat  will  not  give  so 
good  bread  when  first  made  as  it  will  after  it  has  been  kept 
for  a  month  or  more.  A  great  deal  of  the  trouble  with 
bread  comes  from  this  condition  of  the  flour.  A  barrel  of 
flour  that  will  not  make  good  bread  to-day,  simply  because 
the  wheat  was  too  new  when  ground,  will,  if  kept  for  two 
months,  make  perfect  bread,  if  the  yeast  be  good ;  for, 
after  all,  the  yeast  is  more  frequently  than  the  flour  the 
cause  of  failure  to  make  satisfactory  bread. 

When  one  buys  flour  in  small  quantities  there  will  always 
be  an  uncertainty  as  to  how  it  will  work  until  after  the  first 
time  it  is  used.  Even  in  small  families  it  is  better  to  get 
flour  by  the  barrel,  as  it  improves  with  age.  Another  thing 
for  the  housekeeper  to  remember  is  that  the  whitest  flour  is 
not  the  most  nutritious.  What  is  called  first-quality  flour 
does  not  contain  nearly  so  large  a  quantity  of  the  best  ele- 
ments of  the  wheat  as  the  second  quality,  which  is  much 
darker,  but  gives  a  sweeter  and  more  nutritious  loaf. 

It  is  wonderful  to  see  the  various  processes  through  which 
the  wheat  goes  before  it  comes  out  of  the  mill.  There  is 
no  question  that  flour  which  is  made  by  the  roller  process 
in  the  first  stages  and  finally  ground  between  the  stones  will 
give  the  most  satisfaction.  The  wheat  is  more  thoroughly 
cleaned  than  when  the  flour  is  made  wholly  by  the  old  pro- 
cess, and  the  separation  of  the  hard  substance  and  the  dust 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  363 


from  the  wheat  is  more  thorough  than  by  the  old  mode,  and 
therefore  when  the  flour  comes  from  the  millstones  it  is  free 
from  undesirable  substances. 

When  and  Why  Soda,  Cream  of  Tartar,  and  Baking 
Powders  are  Used. 

Soda  may  be  used  in  all  kinds  of  bread,  cake,  pudding,  and 
griddle  cakes  where  an  acid  also  is  used.  The  acid  may 
be  cream  of  tartar,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  sour  milk  or  cream, 
molasses,  or  something  else.  If  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  be  used,  there  must  be  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
save  in  cases  where  the  cream  of  tartar  is  used  only  to  give 
tone  and  firmness  of  texture  to  a  pudding  or  cake  in  which 
only  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  employed,  —  such  as  many  of 
the  meringue  puddings,  and  angel  cake. 

In  puddings  and  cakes  where  molasses,  lemon  juice,  or 
vinegar  is  used,  soda  should  be  used  instead  of  baking  pow- 
der, because  the  baking  powder  is  a  combination  of  an  acid 
and  alkali,  and  the  proportions  are  so  carefully  adjusted  that 
the  two  ingredients  neutralize  each  other. 

Sometimes  a  rule  for  cake  or  gingerbread  calls  for  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  of  cream  of  tartar.  In  such 
cases  allowance  is  made  for  the  acid  in  the  molasses,  or  in 
the  sour  milk  or  cream  that  is  used.  Again,  in  making 
cake  in  which  a  good  many  eggs  and  wine  or  brandy  are 
used,  a  small  quantity  of  soda,  but  no  cream  of  tartar,  is 
called  for.  This  is  because  there  is  enough  acid  in  the 
wine  and  butter  to  neutralize  the  small  quantity  of  soda  and 
produce  the  required  amount  of  carbonic  acid  gas. 

It  will  be  seen,  by  these  statements,  that  the  housekeeper 
who  uses  baking  powder  can  do  without  cream  of  tartar, 
but  she  must  be  provided  with  soda  when  using  molasses 
and  sour  milk  and  cream. 

Soda  should  never  be  dissolved  in  hot  water,  because 
some  of  the  gases  would  be  liberated  and  wasted,  and  a 


364     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


greater  amount  of  soda  would  be  needed  to  make  good  this 
waste  than  if  the  soda  were  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

Housekeepers  should  remember,  when  making  biscuit 
and  dumplings  with  baking  powder,  that  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  the  powder  will  be  required  to  make  one  quart  of  flour 
light.  The  manufacturers'  directions  often  call  for  only  two, 
and  the  result  is  unsatisfactory. 

About  Whipping  Cream. 

Have  the  cream  very  cold.    Put  it  in  a  bowl  or  pail,  and 
set  this  dish  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  —  ice  water  if  possible. 
Have  a  large  bowl  or  pan  set  in  another  pan  of  ice  water. 
Place  the  whip-churn  in  the  cream,  tipping  a  little  to  one 
f^k     side,  that  the  air  and  cream  may  be  forced  through 
jT      the  holes  in  the  bottom  of  the  churn.    Draw  the 
Jj      dasher  up  about  one  third  the  length  of  the  cylinder  ; 
then  press  down.    Let  the  upward  stroke  be  light, 
and  the  downward  stroke  hard.    If  you  will  count 
time  in  this  way :  one,  two ;  one,  two,  —  it  will  in- 
1      sure  a  regular  stroke,  which  is  important. 

When  the  bowl  is  full  of  froth,  skim  it  off  into  the 
■B     larger  bowl,  being  careful  not  to  skim  too  near  the 
whip-  liquid  cream.    A  little  of  the  froth  will  become 
churn.  ]jqUj^  but  tnjs  can  De  p0Ured  back  into  the  bowl 

and  whipped  again. 

The  cream  must  be  neither  too  thick  nor  too  thin.  If 
too  thick,  thin  it  with  milk.  When  cream  is  too  thick  for 
whipping,  the  bubbles  will  be  very  small  and  the  cream  will 
hardly  double  in  volume.  This  kind  of  cream  makes  most 
desserts  too  rich.  When  the  cream  is  too  thin,  the  bubbles 
will  be  large  and  clear,  and  will  break  when  touched.  Such 
cream  as  is  sold  at  creameries  as  thick  or  heavy  cream,  and 
costs  from  fifty  to  eighty  cents  a  quart,  —  depending  on  the 
locality,  —  will  require  a  pint  of  milk  to  a  pint  of  cream. 
The  thin  cream  sold  at  the  creameries  is  often  too  poor  to 
be  whipped. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 


365 


The  whip-churn  is  a  tin  cylinder,  perforated  on  the  bot- 
tom and  sides,  in  which  a  dasher  of  tin,  also  perforated,  can 
be  easily  moved  up  and  down.  When  this  churn  is  placed 
in  a  bowl  of  cream  and  the  dasher  is  worked,  air  is  forced 
through  the  cream,  causing  it  to  froth. 

Good  cream  may  be  frothed  with  a  whisk,  or  with  an  egg- 
beater,  but  the  whip-churn  described  above  is,  to  my  mind, 
the  most  satisfactory  for  this  work. 

How  to  Prepare  Bread  Crumbs. 

There  are  two  methods  of  preparing  bread  crumbs.  Such 
as  are  to  be  used  for  escaloped  dishes  or  dishes  prepared 
au  gratin,  etc.,  should  always  be  grated.  That  means,  of 
course,  that  stale  bread  —  not  dried  bread  —  should  be  used. 
This  gives  light,  fluffy  crumbs. 

For  breading,  pieces  of  bread  should  be  dried  in  a  slow 
oven  until  not  a  particle  of  moisture  is  left.  The  dried 
bread  should  then  be  put  in  a  bag  and  pounded  fine  with  a 
wooden  mallet.  Now  rub  the  crumbs  through  a  common 
flour  sieve,  and  put  them  away  in  glass  jars.  There  should 
always  be  kept  on  hand  a  good  supply  of  these  dry  crumbs. 

Breading  Articles  for  Prying. 

The  albumen  of  the  egg  hardens  so  quickly  when  exposed 
to  a  high  temperature  that  it  is  used  as  a  protection  for 
articles  of  food  that  lack  albuminous  matter  enough  on  the 
surface  instantly  to  form  a  hard  coating.  The  egg  does 
not  take  a  fine,  brown  color  ;  therefore,  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs  are  used  with  it  to  give  the  food  crispness  and 
a  rich  color.  Covering  an  article  of  food  with  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  is  called  breading.  Put  the  egg  in  a  deep 
plate,  and  beat  it  thoroughly  with  a  spoon,  but  not  enough 
to  make  it  light.  Have  the  crumbs  in  another  plate,  or 
they  may  be  spread  in  a  thick  bed  on  a  board.  Have  the 
article  that  is  to  be  breaded  seasoned  well  with  salt,  and 


366      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


slightly  with  pepper,  if  the  latter  be  used  at  all.  Put  the 
article  in  the  egg,  and  with  a  tablespoon  dip  up  and  pour 
the  egg  over  every  part  of  it.  Not  a  spot  should  escape 
the  coating.  With  a  broad-bladed  knife  lift  the  article 
from  the  egg,  and  roll  it  in  the  dried  crumbs,  being  careful 
that  every  part  is  covered.  Lay  the  breaded  food  on  a  fiat 
dish  or  on  the  board  until  dry. 

Never  place  one  breaded  article  on  another  when  drying 
or  frying.  When  ready  to  fry,  shake  off  the  loose  crumbs. 
Place  in  the  wire  basket,  being  careful  not  to  crowd.  Fish, 
meat,  croquettes,  etc.,  when  dry  after  breading,  may  be 
placed  in  the  refrigerator  until  the  time  for. frying.  Ihey 
will  keep  for  twelve  hours  or  longer. 

Sometimes  a  very  thick  crust  is  desired  on  some  kinds 
of  food.  In  that  case  bread  all  the  articles,  and  when  they 
are  dry,  give  them  a  second  coat  of  egg  and  crumbs. 

Ways  to  Get  Onion  Juice. 

Pare  a  fresh  onion  and  bruise  the  side  by  striking  with 
the  dull  edge  of  a  knife  ;  then  press  the  flat  side  of  the 
blade  of  the  knife  against  the  bruised  place.  The  juice 
will  fall  in  drops.  If  a  large  quantity  be  required,  cut  the 
onion  fine,  put  it  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  and  press  in  a 
lemon  squeezer  kept  solely  for  this  purpose. 

Getting  Rid  of  the  Odor  of  Onions. 

If  the  hands  and  the  utensils  which  were  used  in  preparing 
raw  onions  be  thoroughly  washed  in  cold  water  before  soap 
or  hot  water  touches  them,  the  odor  of  the  vegetable  will 
disappear. 

Stoning  Raisins  in  an  Easy  Manner. 

Stem  the  raisins,  and,  putting  them  in  a  bowl,  cover  with 
boiling  water.     Immediately  pour  off  the  water.  This 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 


3^7 


softens  the  skins  and  makes  the  raisins  puff  up  so  that  the 
stones  are  removed  with  ease. 

To  Freshen  Bread  and  Cake. 

If  you  wish  to  freshen  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  or  cake,  put 
it  in  a  deep  pan,  cover  it  closely  and  set  it  in  rather  a  cool 
oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  The  loaf  will  be  almost  as 
fresh  as  when  first  baked,  but  it  must  be  used  the  same  day, 
as  it  dries  quickly  when  reheated  in  this  manner. 

Making  a  Bouquet  of  Sweet  Herbs. 

Tie  together  one  spray  of  parsley,  one  sprig  each  of 
thyme  and  summer  savory,  one  small  leaf  of  sage,  and  one 
large  bay  leaf.  This  bouquet  will  flavor  a  gallon  of  soup. 
It  must  not  cook  in  it  for  more  than  an  hour.  When  only 
a  small  amount  of  soup  or  sauce  is  to  be  flavored,  the 
bouquet  should  be  cooked  in  the  liquid  but  a  short  time, — 
perhaps  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes. 

Preventing  a  Meringue  from  Falling. 

The  means  of  preventing  a  meringue  from  falling  when 
it  is  taken  from  the  oven  are  simple.  Usually  the  trouble 
arises  from  baking  the  meringue  in  too  high  a  temperature. 
If  you  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  then 
gradually  beat  in  the  powdered  sugar  (a  generous  table- 
spoonful  for  each  white  of  an  egg),  put  the  meringue  on 
the  pie  or  pudding  when  partially  cooled,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  with  the  door  open,  for  eighteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  the  annoyance  may  be  avoided. 

To  Temper  Iron  and  Earthen  Ware. 

Heat  the  iron  slowly  and  then  cool  slowly.  It  is  best, 
when  it  can  be  done,  to  grease  the  inside  of  the  iron  utensil 
and  fill  it  with  cold  water ;  then  heat  the  water  gradually  to 


368      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


the  boiling  point,  and  cool  slowly.  Earthenware  is  to  be 
put  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  which  is  then  to  be  heated 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  cooled  slowly.  If  con- 
venient, put  a  little  bran  in  the  water. 

Flour  Paste. 

Mix  one  heaped  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  five  of  cold 
water.  Pour  on  this  a  scant  gill  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Stir  the  mixture  on  the  fire  until  it  boils  up, 
then  strain. 

What  to  do  When  Burning  Accidents  Occur. 

Theie  are  many  simple  remedies  which,  in  case  of  burn- 
ing accideiAs,  can  be  applied  before  the  physician  comes. 
So  much  immediate  and  future  suffering  can  be  averted  by 
the  prompt  use  of  some  remedy,  that  everybody  should 
have  fixed  in  mind  some  of  the  proper  things  to  do.  Slight 
burns,  such  as  one  often  gets  in  the  kitchen  or  laundry, 
can  be  relieved,  and  blistering  be  prevented,  by  coating 
the  burned  part  with  oil,  lard,  or  butter,  then  covering 
with  baking  soda  and  finally  with  a  piece  of  linen.  In 
a  short  time  the  {»ain  will  cease,  and,  unless  the  burn  be 
very  deep  or  the  remedies  be  applied  too  late,  there  will  be 
no  blister.    Lime  water  also  is  good  for  burns. 

Children  are  often  scalded  by  falling  into  hot  water  left 
within  their  reach,  or  by  overturning  some  hot  liquid  upon 
themselves.  In  a  case  of  scalding  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  clothes  clinging  to  the  body  are  saturated  with  the 
hot  liquid,  and  that  as  long  as  they  are  allowed  to  remain 
in  this  condition  the  heat  will  be  kept  in,  and  the  burn 
become  deeper.  The  first  thing  to  do  in  a  case  of  this 
kind  is  to  pour  cold  water  over  the  sufferer  This  at  once 
cools  the  clothing,  which  should  afterward  be  taken  off  as 
gently  but  quickly  as  possible.  Next  pour  sweet  oil  over 
the  burns  and  cover  them  with  soda,  if  you  have  it ;  if  not, 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  369 

cover  with  soft  linen  cloths,  and  then  wet  with  lime  water. 
If  there  be  no  oil  at  hand,  lard  will  do.  The  things  at 
which  to  aim  are,  to  cover  the  burn  at  once  with  some  pure 
oily  substance  and  then  with  soda  or  lime  water,  to  take 
out  the  fire  ;  to  have  the  place  covered  with  linen,  which 
will  not  stick  to  the  wound  ;  and,  finally,  to  cover  closely 
from  the  air.  Nothing  is  better  for  this  purpose  than  a  thin 
roll  of  cotton  batting  spread  over  the  linen.  Sometimes  the 
cotton  batting  is  saturated  with  oil  and  laid  directly  on  the 
wound  ;  but  it  is  apt  to  cling  to  the  flesh,  and  cause  much 
trouble  and  suffering.  A  fine  quality  of  cotton  batting  may 
be  obtained  at  any  druggist's. 

In  every  house  there  should  be  a  closet  or  drawer  on  the 
first  floor  where  a  few  simple  remedies  are  kept.  Here  is 
a  list  for  burns  :  a  roll  of  old  linen,  such  as  handkerchiefs, 
napkins,  pieces  of  table-cloths,  sheets,  and  pillow-cases ;  a 
roll  of  cotton  batting,  a  bottle  of  sweet  oil,  with  the  stopple 
drawn  and  gently  put  back,  so  that  it  can  be  quickly  re- 
moved;  a  bottle  of  lime  water  ;  a- box  of  powdered  baking 
soda ;  a  ball  of  soft  darning  cotton ;  and  a  needle,  thread, 
thimble,  and  scissors.  One  may  have  no  use  for  these 
things  in  many  years  ;  but  the  trouble  of  keeping  them  is 
trifling,  and  should  there  be  need  of  them  the  advantage  of 
having  them  ready  for  use  is  beyond  estimation. 

To  make  lime  water,  put  about  half  a  pound  of  unslaked 
lime  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  with  a  stick,  and  put  away  in  a  cool 
place  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time  pour 
off  the  clear  lime  water,  letting  the  sediment  remain  in  the 
bowl.  Bottle  the  water,  and  put  the  stopple  in,  but  not  so 
far  that  it  cannot  be  easily  drawn. 

Use  of  Naphtha  in  the  Household. 

Naphtha  has  come  to  be  a  power  in  cleaning  establish- 
ments, and  to  some  extent  in  the  household.    Before  giving 

24 


370     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 

any  directions  for  its  use,  I  want  to  state  that  this  fluid  is 
extremely  dangerous  unless  ample  precautions  be  taken  ; 
but  with  proper  care  there  is  not  the  slightest  danger. 
Naphtha  is  very  volatile,  giving  off  a  highly  inflammable 
gas.  It  is  dangerous  even  to  have  an  uncorked  bottle  of 
it  in  a  room  where  there  is  a  light  or  fire.  If,  however, 
when  naphtha  is  being  used,  the  windows  in  the  room  be 
open  and  there  be  neither  light  nor  fire,  there  will  not  be 
a  particle  of  danger. 

Soiled  carpets  and  garments  may  be  cleaned  by  sponging 
with  naphtha.  Buffalo  bugs  and  moths  can  be  destroyed 
with  it.  For  stuffed  furniture  use  naphtha  freely.  Put  the 
article  on  the  piazza  and  pour  the  fluid  into  it,  being  sure 
that  every  part  is  saturated.  After  a  day  or  two,  repeat  the 
process,  and  I  think  you  will  find  that  both  worms  and 
eggs  are  destroyed.  Still,  it  will  be  necessary  to  keep  a 
close  watch ;  for  it  is  more  difficult  to  destroy  the  eggs 
than  the  worms,  and  they  may  be  hatched  out  after  days, 
or  even  weeks,  have  passed.  I  know  that  if  the  naphtha  be 
used  again  at  this  time  the  trouble  will  be  at  an  end.  Furs 
and  woollen  garments  should  be  well  beaten,  and  then  satu- 
rated with  naphtha.  There  is  no  danger  in  this  generous 
use  of  the  fluid  out  of  doors  ;  but  in  the  house  great  care 
must  be  exercised.  Windows  should  be  opened,  and  there 
should  be  no  light  or  fire  in  the  room  for  several  days,  if 
naphtha  has  been  used  in  large  quantities. 

When  rugs  or  carpets  are  attacked,  have  two  hot  flat- 
irons  ready.  Wet  with  hot  water  the  parts  that  are  affected. 
Place  several  thicknesses  of  wet  cloth  over  this,  and  apply 
the  hot  iron,  which  should  stand  there  for  at  least  ten  min- 
utes, that  the  steam  may  penetrate  every  part.  When  all 
is  done,  pour  on  naphtha  ;  also,  pour  it  about  the  edges  of 
the  carpet.  Remember  that  wiping  with  naphtha  has  no 
effect ;  it  must  be  a  generous  bath.  Let  me  say  again, 
that  the  danger  from  the  fluid  comes  from  the  gas,  and  that 
the  windows  are  to  be  opened,  and  no  fire  or  light  allowed 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  371 


in  the  room  during  the  work,  or  for  a  few  hours  after  it  is 
done. 

Bedbugs  can  be  banished  from  a  room  with  two  or  three 
applications  of  naphtha.  Take  the  bed  apart  and  dust  it. 
Let  the  parts  lie  flat  on  the  floor  with  the  grooved  sides  up. 
Saturate  the  bed  with  naphtha,  filling  the  grooves.  Pour 
the  fluid  into  the  pillows  and  mattresses,  wetting  the  seams 
and  tuftings  thoroughly.  Spray  any  cracks  there  may  be  in 
the  walls.  If  there  be  a  carpet  on  the  floor  it  will  be  well 
to  give  it  a  naphtha  bath,  to  clean  and  brighten  it.  When 
all  this  is  done,  close  the  room,  leaving  the  windows  open. 
It  should  stand  in  this  way  for  at  least  eight  hours,  that 
the  gas  may  pass  off.  Should  any  bugs  appear  after  this, 
repeat  the  operation.    The  second  time  will  not  fail. 

When  putting  away  furs,  flannels,  rugs,  etc.,  have  the 
articles  well  beaten.  Put  them  in  sheets,  and  wet  with 
naphtha;  then  pin  the  sheets  and  put  the  articles  away 
in  boxes  or  drawers. 

A  Word  Regarding  Stains. 

Stains  of  all  kinds  are  constantly  getting  on  all  sorts  of 
articles  and  fabrics.  Great  care  must  be  used  in  removing 
them,  as  the  treatment  that  is  good  for  one  kind  will  pro- 
duce the  most  disastrous  results  with  another.  A  few  sim- 
ple remedies  are  given  for  the  most  common  stains  that 
trouble  the  housekeeper. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots. 

Where  soap  and  hot  water  can  be  used,  wash  the  spots 
in  very  hot  water,  using  plenty  of  soap  ;  then  rinse  well. 
French  chalk  or  fuller's  earth  may  be  powdered  and  mixed 
with  cold  water,  to  make  a  thick  paste.  Spread  this  on  the 
grease  spot  and  let  it  remain  for  several  days  ;  then  brush 
off.  If  the  stain  has  not  fully  disappeared,  apply  the  mix- 
ture a  second  time. 


372      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Oxgall  may  be  used  on  dark  colors ;  if  purified,  it  may 
be  used  on  any  color.  It  can  sometimes  be  bought  at  a 
druggist's  in  a  purified  state.  Chemists  also  combine  oxgall 
with  turpentine  and  other  cleaning  agents.  This  prepara- 
tion is  effective  and  safe  in  removing  grease. 

In  the  case  of  delicate  fabrics  that  can  be  washed,  the 
spots  may  be  rubbed  with  yolk  of  egg  before  the  washing. 
Naphtha  is  usually  effective  in  removing  grease. 

Here  is  still  another  way.  Put  a  piece  of  blotting  paper 
under  the  grease  spot  and  another  over  it.  Place  a  warm 
iron  on  the  upper  one.  After  a  while  remove  the  iron  and 
paper,  and,  if  the  grease  has  not  entirely  disappeared,  repeat 
the  process  with  fresh  paper. 

If  a  large  amount  of  oil  or  grease  be  spilled  on  a  flat  sur- 
face, immediately  cover  the  place  thickly  with  whiting,  wheat 
flour,  or  meal  of  any  kind.  This  will  absorb  some  of  the 
oily  substance,  and  prevent  it  from  spreading.  After  an 
hour  or  two  brush  off  this  substance  and  apply  the  usual 
remedies. 

Grease  spots  on  carpets  may  be  taken  out  by  covering 
the  spots  with  fuller's  earth,  wet  with  spirits  of  turpentine. 
Let  it  stand  until  the  earth  is  a  fine  dry  powder. 

Delicate  fabrics,  like  silk,  crepe,  ribbons,  scarfs,  etc.,  may 
be  spread  on  a  clean  cloth  and  then  be  covered  with  pow- 
dered French  chalk  or  fuller's  earth.  Roll  up  the  article 
and  put  away  for  a  few  weeks  and  it  will  become  clean. 

To  Take  Grease  from  Wood  and  Stone. 

Put  one  gill  of  washing  soda  and  one  quart  of  boiling 
water  in  a  stewpan  and  place  on  the  fire.  When  the  soda 
is  dissolved,  pour  the  boiling  liquid  on  the  grease  spot. 
Rub  with  an  old  broom.  An  hour  or  two  later  rub  with  a 
mop.  Rinse  out  the  mop  ;  then  wash  with  clean  hot  water. 
Be  careful  not  to  get  the  soda  water  on  your  hands,  cloth- 
ing, or  boots. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  373 


Removing  Stains  from  Marble. 

If  the  stains  were  made  by  grease,  spread  wet  whiting 
or  chloride  of  lime  on  them  and  let  it  remain  for  sev- 
eral hours  ;  then  wash  off.  Washing  soda,  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  mixed  with  enough  whiting  to  form  a  thick  paste, 
and  kept  on  the  stains  for  several  hours,  will  remove  grease 
spots. 

Sometimes  the  marble  has  a  discolored  appearance  from 
scratches.  If  it  be  rubbed  hard  with  wet  whiting  and  then 
washed  and  wiped  dry,  the  mark  will  disappear.  Ink  and 
iron  rust  are  usually  removed  with  an  acid,  but  if  that  be 
employed  on  marble,  it  will  dissolve  the  stone.  The  reme- 
dies given  for  grease  spots  can,  however,  be  used.  Should 
an  acid  be  used  on  marble,  pour  ammonia  water  on  the  spot 
and  it  will  neutralize  the  acid,  thus  saving  the  marble. 

Treatment  of  Fruit  Stains. 

One  of  the  simplest  methods  is  to  place  the  stained  part 
of  the  cloth  over  a  bowl  and  continue  pouring  boiling  water 
through  until  the  stain  disappears.  If  this  be  done  soon 
after  the  article  is  stained,  there  will  be  no  trouble  in  most 
cases. 

Oxalic  acid  will  remove  fruit  stains.  As  it  is  useful  for 
many  purposes,  it  is  well  to  keep  a  bottle  of  it  in  some  safe 
place.  Put  three  ounces  of  the  crystals  in  a  bottle  with  half 
a  pint  of  water.    Mark  the  bottle  plainly. 

When  stains  are  to  be  removed  have  a  large  pail  of  water 
and  a  bottle  of  household  ammonia  at  hand.  Wet  the 
stained  parts  with  the  acid  and  then  rub.  When  the  stains 
have  disappeared,  put  the  article  in  the  water.  Wash  thor- 
oughly in  several  waters,  and  then  wet  the  parts  with  the 
ammonia,  that  all  trace  of  the  acid  may  be  removed. 
Finally,  rinse  again. 


374     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Coffee,  Tea,  and  Wine  Stains  on  Table  Linen. 

If  treated  at  once  such  stains  seldom  give  much  trouble. 
Place  the  stained  part  over  a  large  bowl  and  pour  boiling 
water  upon  it  until  the  stain  disappears.  If,  however,  the 
stains  be  of  long  standing,  and  have  been  washed  with  soap, 
it  will  be  difficult  to  get  rid  of  them.  Javelle  water  (which 
can  be  made  at  home  or  bought  of  a  druggist)  will  do  it. 
Put  about  half  a  pint  of  Javelle  water  and  a  quart  of  clear 
water  into  an  earthen  bowl ;  let  the  stained  article  soak  in 
this  for  several  hours  ;  then  rinse  thoroughly  in  three  waters. 
It  is  only  white  goods  that  can  be  treated  in  this  manner,  as 
the  Javelle  water  bleaches  out  the  color.  Another  way  to 
do  is  to  put  a  little  of  the  Javelle  water  in  a  saucer  or  small 
bowl,  and  soak  the  spot  in  this  until  it  disappears.  Rinse 
thoroughly. 

When  Cloths  become  Mildewed. 

Put  about  a  tablespoonful  of  chloride  of  lime  in  a  wooden 
pail,  or  earthen  bowl,  and  add  four  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Stir  until  all  the  lime  is  dissolved,  using  a  wooden  spoon  or 
paddle.  Now  put  the  mildewed  article  into  the  water  and 
work  it  about,  using  the  spoon  or  paddle.  Let  the  article 
stay  in  the  water  until  all  the  mildew  has  disappeared ;  then 
throw  it  into  a  tub  of  cold  water.  Wash  well  in  this,  and 
then  rinse  in  a  second  tub  of  cold  water ;  finally,  wring  out 
and  dry.  If  the  rinsing  be  thorough  the  fabric  will  be 
uninjured.  It  is  only  white  goods  that  can  be  treated  in 
this  way,  because  chloride  of  lime  removes  colors  as  well  as 
mildew. 

The  Best  Way  to  remove  Iron  Rust. 

Buy  four  ounces  of  muriatic  acid  at  a  druggist's.  It  is 
useful  for  various  purposes.  Have  it  marked  plainly.  It 
should,  moreover,  be  labelled  as  poisonous. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  375 

Fill  a  large  bowl  with  boiling  water.  Have  another  bowl 
or  pan  full  of  hot  water.  A  bottle  of  household  ammonia 
also  is  necessary.  Place  the  spotted  part  of  the  garment 
over  the  bowl  of  hot  water.  Wet  a  cork  in  the  muriatic 
acid  and  touch  the  iron  rust  with  it.  Immediately  the  spot 
will  turn  a  bright  yellow.  Dip  at  once  in  the  hot  water,  and 
the  stain  will  disappear.  When  all  the  spots  have  been  re- 
moved, rinse  the  article  thoroughly  in  several  clear  waters, 
then  in  ammonia  water  (a  tablespoonful  of  household 
ammonia  to  a  quart  of  water),  and  finally  in  clear  water. 
The  acid  is  very  powerful,  and  will  destroy  the  fabric  if 
allowed  to  remain  upon  it.  Ammonia  neutralizes  it.  If  the 
directions  be  followed  carefully,  the  most  delicate  fabric  can 
be  successfully  treated  in  this  way. 

As  muriatic  acid  is  very  destructive  of  tin,  do  not  keep 
the  bottle  in  the  same  closet  with  articles  made  of  that 
metal. 

Removing  Blood  Stains. 

Wash  the  stain  in  blood-warm  water  until  the  greater  part 
has  been  removed ;  then  rub  on  some  soap,  and  wash  until 
the  stain  disappears.  When  the  stain  is  on  white  cotton  or 
linen  goods,  scald  the  article  after  it  has  been  washed. 
Never  use  hot  water  until  the  stain  is  nearly  removed. 

Removing  Sewing-machine  Oil  Stains. 

Rub  the  stain  with  sweet  oil  or  lard,  and  let  it  stand  for 
several  hours ;  then  wash  in  soap  and  cold  water. 

To  Remove  Pitch  and  Tar. 

Rub  lard  on  the  stain  and  let  it  stand  for  a  few  hours ; 
then  sponge  wTith  spirits  of  turpentine  until  the  stain  is 
removed.  If  the  color  of  the  fabric  be  affected,  sponge  it 
with  chloroform  and  the  color  will  be  restored. 


376     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Alcohol  for  Grass  Stains, 
Rub  the  stain  with  alcohol ;  then  wash  in  clean  water. 

Muriatic  Acid  for  Stains  on  Porcelain. 

When  there  is  a  great  deal  of  iron  in  the  water,  the  por- 
celain or  china  bowls  in  the  bath-room  become  badly 
stained.  Rub  a  little  muriatic  acid  on  the  stained  parts, 
and  rinse  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  adding  a  little  am- 
monia to  the  rinsing  water  toward  the  end. 

To  Remove  Paint. 

Wet  the  paint  with  turpentine  and  rub  with  a  woollen 
cloth.  If  the  paint  spot  can  be  kept  wet  with  the  turpen- 
tine for  a  little  while,  it  will  not  require  so  much  rubbing. 

Removing  Ink  Stains. 

Tear  blotting  paper  in  pieces  and  hold  the  rough  edges 
on  the  ink  when  it  is  freshly  spilled.  If  you  have  no  blot- 
ting paper  at  hand,  cover  the  spot  with  Indian  meal ;  or, 
the  liquid  ink  may  be  absorbed  by  cotton  batting.  The 
first  care  should  be  to  prevent  the  ink  from  spreading.  If 
ink  be  spilled  upon  a  carpet,  cut  a  lemon  in  two,  remove  a 
part  of  the  rind,  and  rub  the  lemon  on  the  stain.  As  the 
lemon  becomes  stained  with  the  ink,  slice  it  off,  and  rub 
with  the  clean  part.  Continue  this  until  the  stain  is 
removed. 

If  the  stained  article  be  washed  immediately  in  several 
waters  and  then  in  milk,  letting  it  soak  in  the  milk  for 
several  hours,  the  stain  will  disappear. 

Washing  the  article  immediately  in  vinegar  and  water,  and 
then  in  soap  and  water,  will  remove  all  ordinary  ink  stains. 

Washing  at  once  in  water  and  then  in  liquid  citric  acid 
or  oxalic  acid  is  another  mode.     Oxalic  acid  is  very  corro- 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  377 


sive,  and  should  be  removed  from  the  article  by  a  thorough 
washing  in  water.  If,  after  the  washing,  the  article  be  wet  with 
household  ammonia,  any  acid  remaining  will  be  neutralized. 

No  matter  what  substance  be  used  to  remove  ink,  the 
stain  must  be  rubbed  well.  If  the  article  stained  be  a  car- 
pet on  the  floor,  use  a  brush.  As  the  acids  often  affect  the 
colors  in  a  fabric,  it  is  wise  to  try  the  water  and  milk  or 
the  water  and  vinegar  method  before  resorting  to  the  acids. 
Chemicals  should  always  be  the  last  resort,  unless  one  be 
rather  familiar  with  their  action. 

My  own  experience  is  that  it  is  a  most  difficult  matter  to 
remove  the  stains  of  some  kinds  of  black  ink  if  they  have 
stood  for  a  few  hours ;  whereas,  other  kinds,  notably  stylo- 
graphic  ink  spots,  can  be  removed  easily  with  soap  and 
water. 

When  Acids  are  Spilled. 

A  bottle  of  household  ammonia  should  be  kept  where  it 
can  be  reached  conveniently  at  any  time ;  then,  when  an 
acid  is  accidentally  spilled,  pour  ammonia  over  the  spot  at 
once. 

Restoring  Colors. 

When  an  acid  has  been  spilled  on  a  fabric  its  effect  may 
oe  neutralized  by  sponging  with  ammonia.  If  an  alkali, 
such  as  ammonia,  soda,  potash,  etc.,  be  spilled  on  a  gar- 
ment, its  effect  may  be  neutralized  by  sponging  with  weak 
vinegar. 

If  the  color  be  not  fully  restored,  sponge  with  chloroform. 

To  make  Javelle  Water. 

Into  a  large  saucepan,  porcelain-lined  if  possible,  put  four 
pounds  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  four  quarts  of  hot  water. 
Stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  stick  until  the  soda  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  add  one  pound  of  chloride  of  lime,  and  stir 


378     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


occasionally  until  nearly  all  the  solids  are  dissolved.  Let 
the  liquid  cool  in  the  kettle  •  then  strain  the  clear  part 
through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  into  wide-mouthed  bottles. 
Put  in  the  stoppers  and  set  away  for  use.  The  part  that  is 
not  clear  can  be  put  into  separate  bottles  and  used  for  clean- 
ing white  floors  and  tables  ;  also  for  cleaning  the  sink. 

In  making  this  preparation  be  careful  not  to  spatter  it  on 
your  clothing  or  on  the  paint.  Half  a  pint  of  this  water  can 
be  put  into  a  tub  with  about  a  dozen  pails  of  warm  suds, 
and  the  soiled  white  clothes  be  soaked  in  them.  Much  of 
the  dirt  can  be  removed  by  this  method.  The  French  laun- 
dresses use  this  preparation  for  white  clothes. 

A  Good  Cleaning  Fluid. 

Put  into  a  large  saucepan  two  quarts  of  water,  half  an 
ounce  of  borax,  and  four  ounces  of  white  castile  soap  shaved 
fine,  and  stir  frequently  until  the  soap  and  borax  are  dis- 
solved i  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  When  the  mixture  is  cold,  add  one  ounce  of  gly- 
cerine, one  of  ether,  and  four  of  ammonia  crystals.  Bottle 
and  put  away  for  use  ;  it  will  keep  for  years. 

To  clean  an  article,  first  brush  thoroughly,  and  then  spread 
on  a  table.  Sponge  with  the  cleaning  fluid  and  rub  hard 
until  the  stains  disappear.    Then  press  if  necessary. 

This  fluid  will  remove  grease  spots  and  stains  of  various 
kinds.  It  can  be  used  on  silks,  cottons,  and  woollens.  It 
is  almost  invaluable  for  cleaning  men's  clothing,  dresses, 
carpets,  etc.  When  a  colored  garment  is  to  be  sponged,  try 
the  fluid  on  a  small  piece  of  the  goods,  as  it  affects  some 
colors. 

Treatment  of  Grease  Spots  on  Wall  Paper. 

If  you  find  grease  spots  on  wall  paper,  put  powdered 
French  chalk,  wet  with  cold  water,  over  the  places,  and  let 
it  remain  for  twelve  hours  or  more.    When  you  brush  off 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  379 


the  chalk,  if  the  grease  spots  have  not  disappeared,  put  on 
more  chalk,  place  a  piece  of  coarse  brown  paper  or  blotting 
paper  on  this,  and  press  for  a  few  minutes  with  a  warm 
flat-iron. 

Stale  Bread  for  Cleaning  Soiled  Paper. 

Wipe  the  paper  with  a  clean  cloth.  Cut  a  loaf  of  stale 
bread  in  two,  lengthwise,  and  rub  the  bread  over  the  paper, 
making  long  strokes  straight  up  and  down.  When  the  bread 
becomes  soiled,  cut  off  a  thin  slice,  and  continue  the  work 
with  the  clean  surface.  A  large  room  may  require  the  use 
of  two  or  three  loaves. 

Edges  of  books,  margins  of  pictures,  and  other  things 
may  be  cleaned  in  the  same  way. 

Two  Ways  to  Repair  Wall  Paper. 

Have  a  set  of  children's  paints,  selecting  those  that  have 
creams,  browns,  yellows,  and  perhaps  green,  blue,  and  red. 
Mix  the  colors  until  you  get  the  shade  of  the  foundation 
color  of  the  paper,  then  lightly  touch  up  the  broken  places. 
If  the  breaks  be  small  this  will  be  all  that  is  necessary  ;  but 
if  large,  it  will  be  well  when  the  first  color  is  dry  to  touch 
[up  the  place  with  the  other  colors.  This  is  a  much  easier 
.and  more  satisfactory  method  than  patching  the  paper.  If, 
however,  the  broken  place  be  too  large  to  be  repaired  with 
the  paint,  match  the  paper  if  you  can  and  stick  it  on  with 
flour  paste.    Never  use  mucilage,  as  it  discolors  the  paper. 

Brightening  Leather  Furniture. 

Housekeepers  often  wonder  if  it  is  possible  to  restore 
the  color  to  leather  furniture  which  has  become  rusty  in 
appearance.  Furniture  dealers  say  that  real  leather  should 
not  fade  as  long  as  it  holds  together.  However,  it  does 
fade  1  so  try  this  method  of  brightening  it.     Wash  the 


380      MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


leather  with  a  sponge  that  has  been  wrung  out  of  hot  soap 
suds  ;  then  rub  as  dry  as  possible.  Now  place  the  furniture 
in  the  sun  and  wind,  that  it  may  get  thoroughly  dry  as  quickly 
as  possible.  Next,  rub  hard  with  a  cloth  that  has  been  wet 
with  kerosene.  Let  the  furniture  stand  in  the  air  until  the 
odor  of  the  oil  has  passed  off. 

Preventing  Silks  and  Woollens  from  Turning 
Yellow. 

Whenever  you  have  occasion  to  pack  away  silk  or  woollen 
goods  which  you  are  afraid  may  turn  yehow,  break  up  a  few 
cakes  of  white  beeswax  and  fold  the  pieces  loosely  in  old 
handkerchiefs  that  are  worn  thin.  Place  these  among  the 
goods.  If  possible,  pin  the  silks  or  woollens  in  some 
old  white  linen  sheets  or  garments.  If  it  be  inconvenient 
to  use  linen,  take  cotton  sheets.  Of  course,  it  is  important 
that  the  clothing  shall  be  perfectly  clean  when  put  away. 

Cleaning  Dress  Silks  and  Ribbons. 

There  are  several  methods  of  cleaning  silks.  They  may 
be  spread  on  a  clean  table  and  sponged  with  naphtha,  alco- 
hol, soap  and  water,  etc. ;  or  the  silk  may  be  washed  in  soap 
suds,  gasoline  or  naphtha.  As  the  gasoline  or  naphtha  does 
not  affect  the  colors,  it  is  more  desirable  for  colored  silks. 

If  the  silks  be  washed  in  suds,  use  the  best  white  castile 
soap.  Wash  the  silk  in  the  suds  ;  then  rinse  in  clear  water 
and  hang  on  a  clothes-horse  in  the  shade.  Do  not  wring  it. 
When  the  silk  is  nearly  dry  lay  it  on  a  soft  ironing  cloth,  and, 
after  spreading  either  coarse  brown  paper  or  a  newspaper 
over  it,  press  with  rather  a  cool  iron.  If  naphtha  or  gasoline 
be  used,  have  the  liquid  in  a  large  bowl  near  an  open  win- 
dow, and  in  a  room  where  there  is  neither  fire  nor  light. 
Wash  the  silk  in  this  and  hang  in  the  air.  It  will  dry 
quickly. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  38 1 

Black  silk  may  be  washed  in  ammonia  water  and  rinsed 
in  clear  water  to  which  has  been  added  strong  bluing  and 
dissolved  gelatine,  —  one  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine 
to  one  gallon  of  water. 

Never  iron  silk  unless  it  is  absolutely  necessary. 

Cleaning  Chamois  Skins. 

Chamois  skins  that  have  been  used  for  cleaning  silver, 
brass,  etc.,  can  be  made  as  soft  and  clean  as  new  by  follow- 
ing these  directions.  Put  six  tablespoonfuls  of  household 
ammonia  into  a  bowl  with  a  quart  of  tepid  water.  Let  the 
chamois  skin  soak  in  this  water  for  an  hour.  Work  it  about 
with  a  spoon,  pressing  out  as  much  of  the  dirt  as  possible  ; 
then  lift  it  into  a  large  basin  of  tepid  water,  and  rub  well 
with  the  hands.  Rinse  in  fresh  waters  until  clean,  then 
dry  in  the  shade.  When  dry,  rub  between  the  hands. 
Chamois  jackets  can  be  washed  in  the  same  manner,  except 
that  there  should  be  two  quarts  of  water  to  the  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ammonia.    Pull  into  shape  before  drying. 

To  Clean  Brushes. 

Put  enough  warm  water  in  a  flat  bowl  or  pan  to  cover 
the  bristles,  but  not  to  come  over  the  back  of  the  brush. 
To  each  quart  of  water  put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  house- 
hold ammonia.  Lay  the  brushes  in  this  for  about  five 
minutes,  then  work  them  gently  in  the  water.  Rinse  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water,  and  rest  them  on  the  edge  where  a 
current  of  air  will  strike  them. 

Care  of  Straw  Matting. 

This  floor  covering  should  not  be  washed  often.  Boil 
together  for  one  hour  two  quarts  of  bran  and  four  of 
water.    Strain  this,  pressing  all  moisture  out  of  the  bran. 


382     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Add  two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt  to  the  strained  mixture.  Wash  the  matting  with  this 
and  rub  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Clean  Woods  in  Natural  Finish. 

To  clean  woodwork  in  your  halls  and  rooms  do  not  wash 
it.  Soap  destroys  the  looks  of  woodwork  that  is  finished  in 
natural  colors.  Wring  a  flannel  cloth  out  of  hot  water  and 
wipe  off  the  dust.  When  all  the  woodwork  has  been  dusted 
in  this  manner  go  over  it  with  a  woollen  cloth  made  damp 
with  cotton- seed  or  sweet  oil  and  alcohol  or  turpentine  ;  two 
parts  oil  and  one  alcohol  or  turpentine.  Rub  hard,  and 
with  the  grain  of  the  wood  ;  then  rub  with  clean  flannel. 
It  will  revive  the  color  and  gloss.  Light  woods  must  be 
wiped  with  a  damp  flannel  and  polished  with  a  dry  piece  of 
flannel.    Do  not  use  oil  on  light  woods. 

To  clean  the  railing  of  banisters,  wash  off  all  the  dirt 
with  soap  and  water,  and  when  dry  rub  with  two  parts  of 
linseed  oil  and  one  of  turpentine. 

All  dark  woods  that  have  become  soiled  and  dingy  may 
be  washed  with  soap  and  water,  using,  if  possible,  a  piece 
of  flannel.  Dry  with  a  soft  cloth.  Mix  together  two  parts 
of  linseed  oil  and  one  of  turpentine.  Moisten  an  old  piece 
of  flannel  in  this  and  rub  the  furniture  with  it.  Finish  by 
rubbing  hard,  and  with  the  grain,  with  a  dry  old  piece  of 
flannel.  If  there  be  any  white  stains  rub  them  with  kero- 
sene, using  a  good  deal  of  oil  and  much  pressure. 

The  soiled  wood  may  be  cleaned  with  turpentine  instead 
of  soap  and  water. 

To  Remove  White  Stains  from  Furniture. 

Wet  a  woollen  cloth  with  kerosene  and  rub  the  spot  until 
the  stain  disappears.  It  may  take  a  good  deal  of  hard 
rubbing  if  the  stain  be  deep  or  of  long  standing,  but  per- 
severance will  accomplish  the  object. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 


383 


Cleaning  Brass. 

There  are  many  good  preparations  which  come  for  clean- 
ing brass.  The  most  of  them  do  the  work  quickly,  leaving 
a  brilliant  polish,  but  the  metal  does  not  keep  clean  so 
long  as  when  cleaned  by  the  old  method.  Pound  fine  and 
then  sift  half  a  pint  of  rotten- stone.  Add  to  this  half  a  gill 
of  turpentine  and  enough  sweet  oil  to  make  a  thick  paste. 
Wash  the  brasses  in  soap  and  water,  wipe  dry,  and  then 
rub  with  the  paste.  Rub  with  a  soft  clean  rag,  and  polish 
with  a  piece  of  chamois  skin. 

Conveniences  when  Sweeping. 

If  one  have  proper  covers  for  the  pictures  and  heavy 
pieces  of  furniture  in  the  room,  a  great  amount  of  trouble 
can  be  saved  on  the  sweeping  day.  Buy  cheap  print  cloth 
for  the  furniture.  Have  three  breadths  in  the  cover,  and 
have  it  three  yards  and  a  half  long.  It  should  be  hemmed, 
and  the  work  can  be  done  quickly  on  a  sewing-machine. 
I  find  six  cloths  a  convenient  number,  although  we  do  not 
always  need  so  many.  Get  cheap  unbleached  cotton,  and 
cut  it  into  lengths  suitable  for  covering  pictures,  heavy  orna- 
ments, clocks,  etc.  These  need  not  be  hemmed.  Always 
remove  any  coverings  gently ;  then  take  them  out  of  doors 
to  be  shaken.  Fold  them  and  put  them  away.  They  will 
last  a  long  time,  and  pay  for  themselves  in  a  year,  because 
they  save  so  much  extra  dusting,  and  the  moving  of  heavy 
articles. 

Mending  Breaks  in  Plaster. 

Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  powdered  lime,  one  gill  of 
plaster  of  Paris,  and  ccld  water  enough  to  make  a  thick 
paste.  Fill  the  holes  with  this  and  smooth  the  surface  with 
a  knife.  Work  quickly.  If  there  be  many  breaks  mix  only 
as  much  plaster  as  can  be  used  in  ten  minutes,  as  it  hardens 
quickly. 


384     miss  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Another  method  is  to  fill  the  breaks  with  putty.  When 
the  plaster  or  putty  is  dry,  the  places  can  be  touched  with 
water  colors  to  correspond  with  the  rest  of  the  wall. 

Cement  for  Stoves  and  Iron  Ware. 

Mix  together  enough  water  glass  and  iron  filings  to  make 
a  thick  paste.  Apply  this  to  the  cracks  or  holes,  and  heat 
gradually  almost  to  a  red  heat.  This  substance  will  bear  a 
white  heat,  although  of  course  one  would  rarely  have  occa- 
sion to  test  it  to  this  degree.  The  water  glass  and  iron 
filings  can  be  bought  at  a  druggist's. 

Cement  for  China. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  powdered  gum-arabic  in  a  gill  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  enough  plaster  of  Paris  into  the  liquid  to 
make  it  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.    Use  immediately. 

Another  Rule.  —  Powder  quick- lime  and  stir  it  into 
the  white  of  an  egg,  making  rather  a  thick  paste.  Coat 
the  broken  edges  lightly  with  this,  and  tie  the  pieces 
together. 

How  to  Fasten  Handles  of  Knives  and  Forks. 

Mix  together  two  ounces  of  powdered  rosin,  one  ounce 
of  powdered  sulphur,  and  one  ounce  of  iron  filings.  Keep 
these  in  a  box,  and,  when  a  knife  or  fork  becomes  loosened 
from  the  handle,  fill  the  opening  in  the  handle  with  the 
powdered  mixture.  Heat  the  tang  of  the  instrument  and 
press  it  into  the  handle.  Should  it  not  go  in  to  the  hilt, 
heat  again,  and  the  second  attempt  will  be  successful. 

Do  not  pack  the  powder  into  the  opening.  Should  the 
powder  blaze  up  when  the  heated  metal  is  inserted,  blow 
out  the  flame.  Be  careful  to  turn  the  fork-tines  or  knife- 
blade  around  until  in  the  right  position,  before  the  filling 
becomes  hard. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  385 


Value  of  a  Drop  of  Oil. 

Every  housekeeper  knows  how  annoying  it  is  to  have  the 
hinges  of  the  doors  squeak,  and  the  locks  and  bolts  refuse 
to  move  unless  great  force  be  used.  Many  do  not  realize 
that  a  few  drops  of  oil  will,  as  a  rule,  remedy  these  annoy- 
ances. First  spread  a  newspaper  on  that  part  of  the  floor 
over  which  the  hinges  swing.  Now,  with  the  sewing- 
machine  oil  can,  oil  the  hinges  thoroughly,  and  then  swing 
the  door  back  and  forth  until  it  moves  without  noise. 
Wipe  the  hinges,  but  let  the  paper  remain  for  a  few  hours, 
to  guard  against  the  possible  dripping  of  oil.  For  locks 
and  bolts,  protect  the  floor  in  the  same  manner.  Oil  them 
thoroughly,  working  them  until  they  will  move  with  ease. 
The  egg-beater  and  the  ice-cream  freezer  should  be  oiled 
frequently  in  the  same  manner. 

What  to  do  when  the  Chimney  is  Cold. 

When  lighting  a  fire  where  the  chimney  has  not  been 
used  for  some  time,  start  the  current  of  air  upward  by 
burning  a  paper  in  the  stove  pipe,  or  by  holding  it  in  the 
chimney,  if  it  be  a  grate  fire. 

If  the  heat  has  been  turned  off  from  a  room  for  some 
time  it  occasionally  happens  that  the  heated  air  will  not 
come  through  the  pipe  when  it  is  turned  on  again.  In  that 
case  close  for  a  few  minutes  nearly  all  the  registers  which 
serve  as  outlets  for  the  other  pipes,  and  the  heat  will  be 
forced  into  the  cold  pipe.  After  this  it  will  go  that  way 
naturally. 

To  Prevent  Kid  from  Cracking. 

When  kid  boots  require  a  dressing,  rub  a  little  castor  oil 
into  the  kid  before  the  dressing  is  put  on.  This  will  keep 
the  leather  soft. 

2«> 


386     MISS  parloa's  young  housekeeper. 


Testing  the  Oven  Heat  with  Paper. 

Have  white  paper  for  testing  the  heat  of  the  oven.  Put 
a  piece  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  and  close  the  door.  For 
pastry,  the  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  turn  the  paper 
dark  brown  in  five  minutes ;  for  bread,  the  heat  should 
turn  it  in  six  minutes.  All  kinds  of  muffins  can  be  baked 
at  this  heat.  Cup  cakes  should  be  put  into  an  oven  that 
will  turn  a  piece  of  white  paper  dark  yellow  in  five  minutes. 
Sponge  and  pound  cakes  require  heat  that  will  turn  white 
paper  light  yellow  in  five  minutes.  Bread  requires  great 
heat  at  first ;  later,  the  heat  is  to  be  reduced.  Cake 
should  have  rather  a  cool  oven.  The  heat  can  be  increased 
later. 

Oven  Thermometers. 

Many  efforts  have  been  made  to  produce  a  thermometer 
which  will  indicate  the  temperature  of  the  oven,  but,  so  far 
as  I  know,  none  made  with  mercury  have  been  satisfactory. 
There  is  made  in  this  country,  however,  an  "  oven  clock," 
which  can  be  set  into  the  door  of  the  oven.  This  is  based 
on  the  principle  of  the  contraction  and  expansion  of  the 
metals.  To  get  the  greatest  benefit  from  these  clocks  the 
housekeeper  must  make  her  tests  herself ;  that  is,  she  must 
learn  that  when  the  hand  points  to  a  certain  number  the 
oven  is  right  for  roasting ;  when  at  another  point,  that  the 
heat  is  right  for  baking  bread,  cake,  etc.  After  she  has 
established  these  facts,  she  may  write  out  a  table  which  will 
serve  as  a  safe  guide  in  the  future. 

Ridding  the  House  of  Water  Bugs. 

Strew  powdered  borax  about  the  pipes  and  in  any  cracks 
in  the  walls  or  woodwork  where  water  bugs  appear.  If 
this  be  persisted  in,  and  everything  be  kept  perfectly  clean, 
you  can  rid  the  house  of  the  insects. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  387 


Keeping  Flies  from  Chandeliers. 

Wipe  the  chandeliers  with  a  soft  cloth  that  has  been  wet 
in  kerosene  oil.  This  should  be  done  several  times  during 
the  summer.  Fly  specks  can  be  wiped  off  in  the  same  man- 
ner, even  when  on  gilt  picture  frames ;  but  the  cloth  must 
be  only  slightly  moistened  in  the  latter  case,  and  used  lightly, 
else  the  gilt  itself  may  come  off. 

Driving  away  Ants. 

Put  green  walnuts  around  the  places  where  the  ants  come 
and  they  will  disappear ;  or,  strew  fresh  pennyroyal  around. 
If  it  is  impossible  to  get  the  fresh  herb,  use  the  oil.  Tar 
mixed  with  hot  water,  and  placed  in  bowls  or  jars  in  the 
room  or  closet,  will  often  drive  away  these  pests. 

Care  of  the  Hands. 

Doing  housework  is  apt  to  make  the  hands  become  rough. 
Have  thick  gloves  to  wear  when  making  fires  and  cleaning 
stoves  and  grates.  Wear,  when  sweeping  and  dusting,  old 
gloves  that  fit  loosely.  As  much  as  possible  use  one  kind 
of  soap ;  changes  of  soap  and  water  irritate  the  hands. 
Have  soft  hand- towels  in  the  kitchen,  and  always  wipe  the 
hands  perfectly  dry.  When  the  work  is  done  rub  the  hands 
with  bran  and  vinegar  diluted  with  water.  Rinse  them  in 
tepid  water  and  wipe  perfectly  dry.  Rub  a  little  cold 
cream  into  the  hands  at  night,  and  also,  if  convenient,  after 
the  coarse  work  has  been  done  for  the  day. 


388        MISS  PARLOA'S  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER. 


Cold  Cream. 


2  ounces  of  cocoa  butter. 
2  ounces  of  spermaceti. 
2  ounces  of  white  wax. 


2  ounces  of  rose  water. 

4  ounces  of  sweet  almond  oil. 


Break  up  the  wax,  spermaceti,  and  cocoa  butter.  Put  all 
the  ingredients  into  a  bowl,  and  place  this  in  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing water.  Stir  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  a  soft,  smooth 
mass  ;  then  put  it  in  little  jars,  and  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 
This  is  excellent  for  the  hands  and  face.  In  winter  use 
only  one  ounce  of  spermaceti. 


Cupfuls,  Half-pints,  and  Gills. 

The  ordinary  kitchen  cup  is  supposed  to  hold  half  a  pint, 
and  nearly  all  writers  of  cook-books  base  their  measure- 


ments on  this  understanding.  Nearly  all  first- 
class  kitchen  furnishing  stores  keep  what  are 
known  as  measuring  cups.  They  are  made  of 
tin,  and  hold  half  a  pint,  old  measure.  One 


quart      cup  is  divided  into  four  parts,  and  one  into 
measure,    three.    A  set  of  these  cups  will  be  found  of 

the  greatest  value  in  the  kitchen,  as  they  insure  accurate 

measurements. 

Here  is  a  table  which  will  be  helpful  to  those  who  do  not 

have  such  cups  to  work  with :  — 


I  cupful  ==  yi.  pint. 
^  cupful  =  I  gill. 
%  cupful  =  y2  gill. 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE.  389 


Equivalents  of  Measures  in  Weight. 

New-process  flour,  1  quart  less  1  gill   1  pound. 

Pastry  flour,  1  quart,  sifted   1  " 

Granulated  sugar,  1  heaped  pint   1  " 

Butter,  1  pint   1  " 

Powdered  sugar,  5  gills   1  " 

Chopped  meat,  1  pint,  packed  solid   1  " 

Liquids,  I  pint   1  " 

Eggs,  10  of  average  size   1  " 

Corn  meal,  ]/2  pint   6  ounces. 

Rice,  y2  pint   8  " 

Raisins,  stemmed,  yz  pint   6  " 

English  currants,  cleaned,  ^  pint   6  M 

Bread  crumbs,  grated,  1  pint   4  " 

Granulated  sugar,  1  heaped  tablespoonful  .    .    .    .  1  " 

Powdered  sugar,  1  slightly  rounded  tablespoonful  .  %  " 

Butter,  1  rounded  tablespoonful   1  " 

Flour,  1  rounded  tablespoonful   j£  " 

Baking  powder,  1  heaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Soda,  1  slightly  rounded  teaspoonful   X  " 

Cream  of  tartar,  2  slightly  rounded  teaspoonfuls    .  %  " 

Ginger,  1  heaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Cinnamon,  1  neaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Allspice,  1  generously  heaped  teaspoonful  ....  X  " 

Clove,  1  slightly  heaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Mace,  1  heaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Pepper,  1  heaped  teaspoonful   X  " 

Salt,  1  teaspoonful   X  " 

Mustard,  1  rounded  teaspoonful   X  " 

Nutmegs,  5   1  " 

Tea,  3  scant  teaspoonfuls   X  " 

Coffee,  roasted  berry,  1  tablespoonful   )£,  " 

Liquids,  2  tablespoonfuls   I  " 


INDEX. 


A  WORD  WITH  THE 

Page 

Difference  between  mere  house- 
keeping and  home-making     .  i 

Folly  of  "  keeping  up  appear- 
ances"   3 


YOUNG  HOUSEWIFE. 

Page 

My  idea  of  good  housekeeping  .  2 
Some  things  a  good  housekeeper 
will  do    .    .    .        ...  2 


ABOUT  FURNISHING  THE  HOUSE. 


4 

Linen  Closet,  Furnishing 

13 

Carpets  and  rugs,  selecting   .  . 

6 

Bed  spreads  and  blankets  .  . 

iS 

Chambers,  what  to  buy  for  the  . 

5 

16 

Cutlery,  fashions  in  .... 

9 

14 

Dainty  things  for  the  table    .  . 

9 

Napkins,  size  and  quality  of  . 

16 

Dining-room  furniture      .    .  . 

5 

Sheets  and  pillow  cases     .  . 

18 

Dinner  and  tea  set,  choosing  a  . 

7 

Table-cloths  and  napkins  .  . 

14 

Kitchen,  What  is  Needed 

Tea,  carving,  and  tray  cloths  . 

17 

11 

Towels,  bath  and  bedroom 

20 

List  of  articles  most  in  use 

12 

Towels,  kitchen  and  pantry  . 

21 

11 

Sitting-room,  comfort  in  the 

0 

DIVISION  OF  THE  HOUSEHOLD  WORK 


Introduction  

22 

Morning,  what  to  do  in  the  .  . 

Cleaning  a  room  by  system  .  . 

26 

Servant,  where  one  is  kept  . 

2S 

Servants,  two  or  more  in  the  fam- 

23 

iiy  

Last  half  of  the  week,  duties  in 

Special  work  for  special  days 

27 

INDEX. 


SOME  THINGS  TO  BE  LEARNED  EARLY. 


Page 

Bath-room,  about  the  ....  36 

Fires,  proper  management  of    .  31 

Furnace  fire,  points  about  the    .  32 

Garbage  barrel,  do  not  neglect  the  37 
Lamps,  getting  the  greatest  good 

out  of   34 

Plumbing,  taking  care  of  .    .    .  35 

Refrigerator,  the,  keeping  sweet  33 


Page 

Washing  Dishes     ....  38 

Cautions,  some  special  ...  40 

China,  tins,  and  iron-ware  .    .  39 

Glassware,  proper  care  of  .    .  38 

Knife  blades,  do  not  slight  the  41 

Rust  and  other  annoyances    .  42 

Silver,  care  of   40 


WORK  ON  WASHING  DAY. 


44 

Silk   undergarments,  the  right 

Curtains,  lace,  cleaning    .    .  . 

47 

46 

Curtains,  washable,  how  to  laun- 

50 

47 

Soap,  hard,  rule  for  .... 

49 

Flannels,  how  to  wash     .    .  . 

45 

48 

5° 
48 

Satines,  ginghams,  and  prints  . 

44 

IN  THE  DINING-ROOM. 


•  52 

Refinement  not  exclusively  for 

Breakfast  table,  at  the  .    .  . 

•  54 

53 

Dinner  table,  how  to  set  the  . 

•  55 

Serving  meals  without  a  servant 

58 

Duties  of  the  waitress  .    .  . 

•  57 

52 

Luncheon  and  tea  table    .  . 

.  56 

Waitress,  duties  of  the  .... 

57 

BUYING  FOOD  AND  CARING  FOR  IT. 


Beef,  fore  quarter  of    .    .  . 

.  64 

Hind  quarter  of  beef    .    .  . 

.  62 

Beef,  hind  quarter  of   .    .  . 

.  62 

.  72 

.  60 

Beef,  sirloin,  second  cut    .  . 

.  66 

Milk  

•  73 

.  67 

Buying  for  a  small  family 

70 

.  69 

Odds  and  ends,  care  of    .  . 

•  77 

.  61 

.  69 

.  76 

.  61 

.  61 

•  75 

Sirloin  of  beef,  second  cut  . 

.  66 

Fore  quarter  of  beef     .  . 

.  64 

.  60 

Small  family,  buying  for  a  . 

.  70 

•  74 

INDEX. 


393 


SOUPS. 


Page 

Bean   92 

Bean,  cream  of   92 

Bean,  Lima   90 

Beef   82 

Bisque,  mock   87 

Chicken  ■   86 

Chowder,  clam   73 

Chowder,  fish   94 

Chowder,  salt  codfish  ....  95 

Clam  chowder   93 

Clam   93 

Codfish  chowder,  salt  ....  95 

Corn   89 

Cream  of  bean   92 

Cream  of  dried  peas     ....  91 

Cream  of  rice   86 

Dried  pea   91 

Dried  pea,  cream  of     ....  91 

Fish  chowder   94 

Hub   90 


Page 


Lima  bean     .   90 

Macaroni   82 

Macaroni  and  tomato  ....  88 

Mock  bisque   87 

Oxtail   83 

Oyster   92 

Pea,  dried   91 

Plain  stock   80 

Potato   89 

Rice   82 

Rice,  cream  of   86 

Salt  codfish  chowder    ....  95 

Scotch  broth   84 

Stock,  a  good  plain      ....  80 

Stock,  second   81 

Tomato   87 

Tomato,  No.  2   88 

Tomato  and  macaroni  ....  88 

Veal  broth   84 

Vegetable  soup   85 


FISH. 


Introduction   96 

Baked  fish   98 

Baked  salt  mackerel    ....  99 

Boiling  fish   97 

Breaded  fish   101 

Breaded  lobster   109 

Broiling  fish   99 

Broiled  halibut   100 

Clams,  roast   11 1 

Clams,  steamed   111 

Clams,  stewed   no 

Codfish,  salt,  in  cream  ....  102 

Crabs,  escaloped   no 

Creamed  oysters   107 

Curry  of  lobster   108 

Escaloped  crabs   110 

Escaloped  fish   10 1 

Escaloped  lobster   109 

Escaloped  oysters   106 

Escaloped  shrimp   no 

Fish  balls   103 

Fish  cakes   103 


Fish  cakes,  fresh   104 

Fricassee  of  lobster   109 

Fried  fish   100 

Fried  oysters   107 

Fried  scallops   105 

Halibut,  broiled   100 

How  fish  should  be  broiled    .    .  99 

How  to  boil  fish   97 

Lobster   10S 

Lobster,  breaded     .,    ...  109 

Lobster,  curry  of   108 

Lobster,  escaloped   109 

Lobster,  fricassee  of    ...    .  109 

Mackerel,  baked  salt     ....  99 

Oysters  au  gratin   106 

Oysters,  creamed   107 

Oysters,  escaloped   106 

Oysters,  fried   107 

Oysters  on  toast   105 

Oyster  stew                             .  105 

Roast  clams   in 

Salt  codfish  in  cream   ....  102 


INDEX. 


FISH  (continued). 


Page 

Scallops,  fried  105 

Shrimp,  escaloped  no 

Steamed  clams  in 


Page 

Stewed  clams  no 

Stewed  oysters  105 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT. 


Beefsteak  and  onions  .    .  . 

.  124 

Beef  stew  from  cold  roast 

•  134 

Blanquette  of  cold  meat   .  . 

.  138 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton    .    .  . 

.  112 

Breaded  veal  cutlets     .    .  . 

.  128 

Breading  croquettes     .    .  . 

•  »5* 

Broiling  in  a  frying-pan    .  . 

.  123 

Broiled  chops  with  bacon 

.  123 

162 

.  163 

•  i57 

.  158 

.  158 

.  156 

Chicken  livers  en  brochette  . 

.  144 

•  i55 

.  159 

Chicken,  white  fricassee   .  . 

.  160 

.  127 

Chops,  broiled,  with  bacon  . 

•  123 

Chops,  pork   139 

Cold  lamb  stew   135 

Cold  meat,  blanquette  of  .    .    .  138 

Cold  mutton  stew   135 

Cold  roast,  beef  stew  from    .    .  134 

Corned  beef,  boiled   113 

Corned  beef  hash   146 

Corned  beef,  spiced      .    .    .    .  114 

Creamed  chicken   158 

Creamed  dried  beef   135 

Creamed  turkey   159 

Croquettes,  breading   ....  151 

Croquettes,  meat  and  potato     .  152 

Croquettes,  mutton     .    .    .    .  150 

Curried  rabbit   163 

Cutlets,  mutton,  saute     .    .    .  128 

Cutlets,  veal,  breaded  ....  128 

Dried  beef,  creamed    .    .    .    .  135 

Duck,  roast   160 

Fat,  how  to  keep   126 

Fat,  the  kind  to  use    ....  126 

Fresh  meat  hash   146 

Fresh  tongue   115 

Fricassee  of  rabbit   162 

Fricassee  of  veal   137 

Fried  chicken   158 

Fried  liver  and  bacon  ....  143 

Fried  salt  pork   139 

Fried  tripe   145 

Frizzled  smoked  beef  ....  135 

Frying   124 

Frying  basket,  the  way  to  lower  it  127 

Frying-pan,  to  broil  in     ...  123 

Gravy,  chicken   156 

Grouse,  roast   161 

Ham,  boiled  .......  115 

Ham,  roast   121 

Hamburg  steaks   133 

Hash,  baked   147 

Hash,  corned  beef   146 


INDEX. 


395 


HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT  {continued). 


Page 

Page 

Hash  of  fresh  meat     .    .    .  . 

146 

.  121 

How  to  clean  and  truss  poultry  . 

153 

.  161 

126 

118 

How  to  roast  meat  in  the  oven  . 

117 

156 

142 

Roast  veal  

120 

141 

139 

141 

140 

119 

149 

Leg  of  mutton,  boiled  .    .    .  . 

112 

129 

Liver,  fried,  with  bacon    .    .  . 

143 

140 

Livers,  chicken,  en  brochette  . 

144 

147 

Meat  and  potato  croquettes  .  . 

152 

Science  in  roasting  meat  .  . 

116 

148 

Sheep's  hearts,  stewed     .  . 

142 

Meat,  how  to  roast  in  the  oven  . 

117 

Shin  of  beef,  stewed    .    .    .  . 

129 

Meat,  minced,  on  toast    .    .  . 

148 

Small  birds,  broiled     .    .    .  . 

162 

Minced  meat  on  toast  .    .    .  . 

148 

149 

Miscellaneous  modes   .    .    .  . 

129 

Smoked  beef,  frizzled  .    .    .  . 

135 

Mutton,  boiled  leg  of  .    .    .  . 

112 

US 

150 

114 

Mutton  cutlets  saute  .... 

128 

133 

137 

113 

120 

Stew  from  cold  lamb  or  mutton  . 

»35 

"3 

i59 

120 

141 

133 

Stewed  sheep's  hearts  .    .    .  . 

142 

161 

Stewed  shin  of  beef     .    .    .  . 

129 

IT5 

120 

160 

"5 

i39 

"5 

121 

"5 

'30 

148 

Poultry,  to  clean  and  truss    .  . 

153 

H4 

161 

145 

163 

Tripe  fried  in  batter    .    .    .  . 

145 

162 

159 

137 

Turkey  or  chicken  dressing  .  . 

157 

118 

156 

155 

Veal  cutlets,  breaded   .    .    .  . 

128 

160 

136 

161 

137 

121 

136 

Roasting  meat,  science  in     .  . 

116 

T20 

119 

163 

120 

Venison  steak  saute*     .    .    .  . 

163 

161 

White  fricassee  of  chicken    .  . 

l60 

INDEX. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 


Page 

Bechamel   165 

Bisque   168 

Bread   171 

Brown   164 

Brown,  No.  2   164 

Butter   167 

Butter,  maitre  d'hotel  ....  170 

Caper   167 

Cream   166 

Currant  jelly   170 

Curry   167 


Page 

Egg   167 

Hollandaise   j68 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter    ....  170 

Mint   17o 

Mushroom   x6- 

Mustard   ^,6 

Parsley   ^6 

Tartar   169 

Tomato   169 

White   165 


SALADS. 


.    .  175 

Mayonnaise  dressing    .    .    .  . 

Cooked  salad  dressing  .  . 

•    ■  173 

Potato,  No.  2  

Fish  

Salad  dressing,  cooked     .    .  . 

•    •  173 

Tomato  and  lettuce  .... 

Lettuce  and  tomato     .  . 

.    .  175 

VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus  with  cream  sauce  . 

.  192 

.  195 

.  198 

Baked  sweet  potatoes  .    .  . 

.  182 

Cauliflower  au  gratin   .    .  . 

.  187 

.  187 

Beans,  shelled  kidney  .    .  . 

.  190 

.  185 

.  187 

.  183 

.  178 

Boiled  sweet  potatoes  .    .  . 

.  182 

Dried  Lima  beans,  No.  2 

.  189 

.  185 

Browned  sweet  potatoes  .  . 

.  183 

INDEX. 


397 


VEGETABLES  {continued). 


Page 

Fried  cabbage   195 

Fried  egg  plant   196 

Green  corn   188 

Green  peas   191 

Greens   193 

Hash,  vegetable   198 

Hashed  cabbage   194 

Hashed  potatoes   180 

Hominy,  baked   197 

Lettuce,  how  to  keep  crisp    .    .  199 

Lima  beans,  dried   189 

Lima  beans,  dried,  No.  2  .    .    .  189 

Lima  beans,  fresh   189 

Lyonnaise  potatoes   181 

Macaroni,  boiled   196 

Macaroni  with  cheese  ....  197 

Mashed  turnips   186 

Nichewaug  potatoes    ....  181 

Onions  au  gratin   184 

Onions,  boiled   183 

Onions,  creamed   184 

Parsnips   186 

Peas,  canned   191 

Peas,  green   191 

Potato  cakes   182 

Potato  croquettes   182 

Potatoes  au  gratin   180 

Potatoes,  boiled   178 

Potatoes,  hashed   180 


Pag« 


Potatoes,  stewed   179 

Potatoes,  stewed,  No.  2    ...  179 

Potatoes,  sweet,  baked     .    .    .  182 

Potatoes,  sweet,  boiled     .    .    .  182 

Potatoes,  sweet,  browned      .    .  183 

Potatoes,  sweet,  warming  over  .  183 

Rice,  baked   198 

Rice,  boiled   197 

Rice  croquettes   198 

Salsify   187 

Shelled  kidney  beans   ....  190 

Sliced  tomatoes   184 

Spinach   193 

Squash   195 

Squash,  summer   196 

Stewed  potatoes   179 

Stewed  potatoes,  No.  2    ...  179 

Stewed  tomatoes   184 

String  beans  188 
Succotash  of  dried  Lima  beans 

and  canned  corn  .    .    .    .    .  190 

Summer  squash   196 

Tomatoes  au  gratin     ....  185 

Tomatoes,  sliced   184 

Tomatoes,  stewed   184 

Turnips,  boiled   185 

Turnips,  mashed   186 

Vegetable  hash   198 

Warming  over  sweet  potatoes    .  188 


MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES. 


Apple  sauce,  evaporated  .  . 

.  213 

Apricots,  evaporated    .    .  . 

.  214 

Cracker  cream  toast     .    .  . 

Baked  sweet  apples      .  . 

.  212 

Dumplings  

Batter  for  fruit  fritters 

.  207 

INDEX. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

Page 

Eggs,  creamed   202 

Egg  cutlets   203 

Eggs,  fried   201 

Eggs,  poached   200 

Eggs  scrambled   201 

Evaporated  apple  sauce    .    .    .  213 

Evaporated  apricots     ....  214 

Evaporated  peaches     ....  214 

Fried  apples   213 

Fried  bread   206 

Fried  eggs   201 

Fried  hominy   211 

Fried  mush   210 

Fritters,  apple   207 

Fruit  fritters,  batter  for    .    .    .  207 

Fruit  sauces   212 

Green  apple  sauce   213 

Hominy,  boiled   211 

Hominy  cakes   211 

Hominy,  fried   211 

Maple  syrup  from  sugar    .    .    .  207 

Milk  toast   208 

Mush   209 

Mush,  corn  meal   210 


Introduction  .... 

.  217 

Baking  powder  biscuit     .  . 

.  226 

Baking  powder  griddle  cakes 

.  236 

Baltimore  hominy  bread  .  . 

•  234 

Biscuit,  baking  powder     .  . 

.  226 

Blueberry  griddle  cakes    .  . 

•  237 

•  232 

Boston  brown  bread    .    .  . 

.  222 

Bread,  Baltimore  hominy  .  . 

•  234 

•  233 

Bread  dough,  rolls  from  .  . 

.  223 

Bread,  entire-wheat      .    .  . 

.  221 

Bread  griddle  cakes     .    .  . 

.  238 

Bread  made  with  dry  yeast  . 

.  219 

Bread,  steamed  Indian     .  . 

•  223 

DISHES  (continued) 

Page 

Mush,  fried   210 

Oatmeal  mush   21c 

Omelet,  baked   205 

Omelet,  plain   203 

Oyster  crackers,  roasted    .    .    .  206 

Peaches,  evaporated    .    .    .    .  214 

Pears,  baked   214 

Plain  omelet   203 

Poached  eggs   200 

Prunes,  stewed   214 

Rarebit,  Welsh   206 

Rhubarb  sauce   215 

Roasted  oyster  crackers        .    .  206 

Scrambled  eggs   201 

Soft  butter  toast   208 

Stewed  prunes   214 

Sweet  apples,  baked    .    .    .    .  212 

Syrup,  maple,  from  sugar     .    .  207 

Toast,  baked   208 

Toast,  cracker  cream    ....  209 

Toast,  milk   .    .        ....  208 

Toast,  soft  butter   208 

Welsh  rarebit   2o£ 


Buckwheat  cakes   235 

Buttermilk  or  sour  milk  muffins  230 

Cakes,  baking  powder  griddle    .  236 

Cakes,  blueberry  griddle  .    .    .  237 

Cakes,  bread  griddle     ....  236 

Cakes,  buckwheat   235 

Cakes,  sour  milk  graham  griddle  236 

Cakes,  ground  rice  griddle    .    .  237 

Cakes,  hominy  griddle  .  .  .  236 
Cakes,  hominy,  with  sour  milk, 

griddle   237 

Cakes,  raised  flannel    ....  238 

Cakes,  sour  milk  griddle  .    .    .  235 

Cakes,  sour  milk  Indian  griddle  236 

Corn  bread   233 

Corn  cake,  spider   233 

Corn  dodgers   234 

Cream  of  tartar  muffins    .    .    .  232 

Crumpets   227 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS. 


INDEX. 


399 


BREAD  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS  {continued) 


Page 

Page 

Dry  yeast,  bread  made  with  .  . 

219 

224 

221 

227 

228 

228 

229 

229 

221 

Pulled  bread  

223 

231 

Quick  luncheon  rolls  .... 

227 

Graham  muffins  with  sour  milk 

231 

Raised  flannel  cakes  .... 

238 

229 

Raised  wheat  muffins  .... 

230 

Griddle  cakes,  bread  .... 

238 

Raised  wheat  waffles  .... 

240 

Griddle  cakes,  baking  powder  . 

236 

Rolls  from  bread  dough    .    .  . 

223 

Griddle  cakes,  blueberry    .    .  . 

237 

226 

Griddle  cakes,  ground  rice     .  . 

237 

Rolls,  quick  luncheon  .... 

227 

Griddle  cakes,  hominy  .... 

236 

225 

Griddle  cakes,  hominy,  with  sour 

Rolls,  Parker  House  .... 

224 

237 

224 

Griddle  cakes,  sour  milk  .    .  . 

235 

222 

Griddle  cakes,  bour  milk  graham 

236 

231 

Griddle  cakes,  so..r  milk  Indian 

236 

Rye  muffins,  with  sour  milk 

231 

Ground  rice  griddle  cakes  .    .  . 

237 

229 

Hominy  griddle  cakes  ..... 

236 

228 

Hominy  griddle  cakes  with  sour 

Sour  milk  graham  griddle  cakes 

236 

237 

Sour  milk  griddle  cakes  . 

255 

240 

Sour  milk  Indian  griddle  cakes 

236 

2l8 

Sour  milk  or  buttermilk  muffins 

230 

226 

0  _ :  j  1 .  „ 

233 

225 

224 

232 

Steamed  Indian  bread  .... 

223 

Muffins,  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

230 

238 

Muffins,  cream  of  tartar    .    .  . 

232 

240 

231 

Waffles,  raised  wheat  .... 

240 

Muffins,  graham  with  sour  milk 

231 

220 

Muffins,  raised  wheat   .    .    .  . 

230 

229 

231 

White  corn  meal  muffins  .    .  . 

233 

Muffins,  rye,  with  sour  milk  .  . 

231 

218 

Muffins,  white  corn  meal  .    .  • 

233 

Yellow  corn  meal  muffins  .    .  . 

232 

Muffins,  yellow  corn  meal     •  • 

232 

CAKE. 

244 

Dropped  doughnuts     .    .    .  . 

250 

242 

Gingerbread,  maple  sugar     .  . 

24S 

247 

Gingerbread,  soft  molasses  . 

248 

252 

Gingerbread,  soft  molasses,  No.  2 

249 

249 

Gingerbread,  soft  molasses,  No.  3 

249 

245 

247 

?44 

252 

400 


INDEX. 


CAKE  (continued). 


Page 

Page 

Maple  sugar  gingerbread  . 

Soft  molasses  gingerbread  . 

248 

Strawberry  shortcake  .    .  . 

.  251 

Strawberry  shortcake,  No.  2  . 

PASTRY. 

•  255 

.   .  256 

.   .  258 

.    .  258 

.    .  256 

.  258 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple  and  Indian   •    •  • 

Dumplings,  steamed  apple  . 

•  262 

.  .  263 

280 

Farina,  cold  .... 

.  280 

281 

Baked  apple  dumplings 

.    .  261 

280 

.    .  280 

280 

26S 

Blueberry  ...... 

.   .  265 

Blueberry  No.  2     .    •  • 

,    .  266 

26c 

OT> 

Bread  

278 

Caramel  •••••• 

28l 

Chocolate  

269 

Chocolate,  No.  2    .    .  . 

.   .  275 

Cocoanut 

Quick  steamed  apple  .    .  . 

.  26l 

.  268 

.  267 

Dumplings,  baked  apple  . 

.   .  262 

INDEX. 


401 


PUDDINGS  {continued). 


Page 

Page 

Steamed  Indian  and  apple  . 

271 

Steamed  Indian  berry  .    .  . 

.  271 

.  278 

Steamed  apple  dumplings 

.  262 

.  268 

.  267 

PUDDING 

SAUCES. 

Cinnamon     .    .  . 

.  286 

Golden  

2S7 

.  286 

.  2S7 

.  285 

.  285 

.  284 

.  285 

SWEETS. 

Apricot  ice    •    •    •  « 

Baked  cup  custards 

.  290 

•  294 

Blancmange,  chocolate 

.  292 

Blancmange  sea  moss 

farina 

.  292 

Chocolate  ice  cream 

•  297 

.  293 

Sea  moss  farina  blancmange  . 

.  292 

.  294 

Slip  

Cup  custards,  baked 

.  290 

.  2S9 

Cup  custards,  steamed 

.  290 

Steamed  cup  custards  . 

.  289 

Strawberry  Bavarian  cream  . 

.  291 

Directions  for  freezing 

■  295 

Strawberry  ice  cream   .    .  . 

2Q7 

BEVERAGES. 

Cocoa  shells  and  nibs  .    .  . 

.  302 

26 


402 


INDEX. 


PRESERVES   AND  PICKLES. 


Page 

Page 

3H 

315 

Canadian  tomato  pickle    .    .  . 

320 

308 

3*4 

323 

322 

320 

3ii 

3i8 

321 

Pineapple,  preserved  .... 

310 

3i6 

Pineapple,  uncooked,  preserved 

310 

308 

Preserved  peaches  

3°7 

3i8 

308 

323 

Preserved  pineapple  .... 

310 

3i8 

Preserved  uncooked  pineapple  . 

310 

Currant  and  raisin  jam     .    .  . 

3i5 

3°9 

3i6 

309 

Currant  jelly,  No.  2    .    .    .  . 

3i7 

Pulp  of  fruit,  what  to  do  with  it 

3°7 

322 

Quality  of  the  fruit     •    .    •  • 

2P7 

Different  fruits  need  different 

3i4 

312 

3*4 

312 

Small  fruits,  how  to  can  .    .  . 

3i3 

321 

Spiced  crab  apple  

323 

309 

322 

Tom  V-J^/^lrVw^TTV 

3*4 

Sun  cooked  strawberries  . 

311 

Jam,  raisin  and  currant    .    .  . 

3i5 

Sweet  cucumber  pickles   .    .  . 

3i9 

3i4 

322 

3*5 

321 

3i6 

■320 

3i8 

What  to  do  with  fruit  pulp  .  . 

307 

Peaches,  preserved  .... 

3°7 

FOR  THOSE  WHO 

T.TVE   0"M  FARMS 

324 

329 

Bacon,  to  cure  breakfast  .    .  . 

328 

Lard,  how  to  render  .... 

320 

335 

334 

335 

Mutton,  corned  shoulder  of  .  . 

326 

Cheese,  hogs'  head  .... 

33° 

Pickle  for  any  kind  of  meat  .  . 

326 

Chine  and  jowl,  to  cure    .    .  . 

328 

326 

329 

332 

Corned  shoulder  of  mutton    .  . 

326 

329 

Corning,  how  to  prepare  meat 

333 

for  

325 

Rennet,  to  preserve  .... 

332 

335 

333 

334 

328 

334 

Sausage  meat,  English     .    .  . 

328 

English  sausage  meat  .... 

328 

33i 

333 

332 

327 

Tongues,  pickle  for  .... 

326 

33o 
328 

332 

Jowl  and  chine,  to  cure    •    •  . 

333 

INDEX. 


403 


CARE 

OF 

THE  SICK. 

Page 

335 

A 

349 

34s 

351 

347 

347 

34o 

349 

339 

J'r1 

345 

343 

344 

I\  CUIaltjld,    l\J    1C11CVC       •       •       •  • 

34 1 

J4,J 

351 

343 

Cleanliness  and  ventilation    .  . 

329 

Oysters  roasted  in  the  shell   ■  • 

343 

Cold  in  the  head,  remedy  for 

351 

1A  7 

34J 

Cracked  ice,  to  keep  .... 

34 1 

Prunes  senna 

jj 

347 

349 

Raw  beef  sandwiches   •    •    •  • 

345 

343 

35° 

34° 

11S 

J4° 

349 

7 1 1 

346 

xvOaSieQ  OvSlcia,  in  tile  aiicii  • 

343 

For  a  cold  in  the  head  . 

35 1 

345 

Gargle  for  a  sore  throat    •  . 

351 

Sandwiches,  raw  beef   •    •    •  . 

345 

347 

35° 

347 

Sore  throat,  a  gargle  for   •    •  • 

351 

346 

345 

346 

343 

346 

344 

Ice,  cracked,  to  keep    .    .    .  . 

341 

349 

Ice,  to  break  in  a  sick  room  .  . 

341 

Turpentine  applications   .    .  . 

340 

346 

Ventilation  and  cleanliness   .  . 

339 

35° 

349 

WHEN  CLEANING  HOUSE. 

352 

Kitchen,  pantry,  and  closets  .  . 

359 

357 

Rooms  on  the  first  floor    .    .  . 

358 

Carpets,  taking  up  and  cleaning 

355 

356 

353 

System  absolutely  necessary  .  . 

352 

356 

Washing  painted  surfaces     .  . 

356 

From  cellar  to  attic     .    .    .  . 

354 

Whitewashing,  importance  of 

354 

ODD  BITS  OF 

USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE. 

A  word  regarding  stains  .    .  . 

37i 

Ants,  how  to  drive  away  .    .  . 

787 

3°7 

About  whipping  cream    .    .  . 

364 

Bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  how  to 

Acids,  what  to  do  if  they  are 

367 

377 

Brass,  how  to  clean     .    .    .  . 

383 

Alcohol  for  grass  stains    .    •  . 

376 

Bread,  to  freshen     .    .       .  . 

367 

404 


INDEX. 


ODD  BITS  OP  USEFUL 

Page 


Bread  crumbs,  how  to  prepare  .  365 

Breading  articles  for  frying  .    .  365 

Brightening  leather  furniture     .  379 

Brushes,  to  clean   381 

Burning  accidents,  what  to  do  in 

case  of   368 

Cake,  to  freshen   367 

Care  of  straw  matting  ....  381 

Care  of  the  hands   387 

Cement  for  china   384 

Chandeliers,  keeping  flies  from  .  387 
Chimney,  what  to  do  when  it  is 

cold   385 

Cleaning  brass   383 

Cleaning  chamois  skins    .    .    .  381 

Cleaning  dress  silks  and  ribbons  380 

Cleaning  fluid,  a  good  ....  378 
Coffee,  tea,  or  wine  stains  on 

linen   374 

Cold  cream   388 

Colors,  restoring   377 

Conveniences  when  sweeping    .  383 

Cream,  about  whipping    .    .    .  364 

Crumbs,  how  to  prepare  .    .    .  365 

Cupfuls,  half-pints,  and  gills     .  388 

Driving  away  ants   387 

Equivalents    of     measures  in 

weight   389 

Flies,  to  keep  away  from  chande- 
liers   387 

Flour,    difference    in  various 

brands   361 

Flour  paste   368 

Fruit  stains,  treatment  of     .    .  373 

Frying,  breading  articles  for  .  36^ 
Furniture,    to    remove  stains 

from   382 

Getting  rid  of  the  odor  of  onions  366 
Grass  stains,  alcohol  for  .    .    .  376 
Grease  spots  on  wall  paper,  treat- 
ment of   378 

Grease  spots,  to  remove  .  .  .  371 
Grease,  to  take  from  wood  and 

stone   372 

Handles  of  knives  and  forks, 

how  to  fasten   384 


KNOWLEDGE  {continued). 

Page 


Hands,  the  care  of   387 

Heat  of  the  oven,  how  to  test  .  386 
Herbs,  sweet,  making  a  bouquet 

of   367 

How  to  prepare  bread  crumbs   .  365 
Iron  and  earthen  ware,  to  tem- 
per   367 

Iron  rust,  the  best  way  to  re- 
move   374 

Javelle  water,  how  to  make  .    .  377 

Kid,  to  prevent  from  cracking  .  385 

Leather  furniture,  to  brighten   .  379 

Marble,  removing  stains  from   .  373 

Matting,  care  of   381 

Measures,    equivalents    of,  in 

weight   389 

Mending  breaks  in  plaster    .    .  383 
Meringue,  to  prevent  from  fall- 
ing   367 

Mildewed  clothes,  treatment  of  .  374 
Muriatic  acid  for  stains  on  porce- 
lain   376 

Naphtha,  use  of,  in  the  house- 
hold   369 

Oil,  value  of  a  drop  of  ...  .  385 
Onions,  getting  rid  of  the  odor 

of   366 

Onion  juice,  ways  to  get  .    .    .  366 

Oven  heat,  testing  with  paper    .  386 

Oven  thermometers     ....  386 

Paint,  to  remove   376 

Paper,  soiled,  how  to  clean    378,  379 

Paste,  flour   368 

Pitch  and  tar,  to  remove  .    .    .  375 

Plaster,  mending  breaks  in  .  .  383 
Points  of  difference  in  various 

brands  of  flour   361 

Porcelain,  stains  on,  how  to  re- 
move   376 

Preventing  a  meringue  from  fall- 
ing   367 

Preventing  silks  and  woollens 

from  turning  yellow  ....  380 

Raisins,  how  to  stone  .    .       .  366 

Removing  blood  stains  .  .  .  375 
Removing  ink  stains   ...  .376 


INDEX. 


405 


ODD  BITS  OF  USEFUL  KNOWLEDGE  (continued). 


Page 

Page 

Removing  iron  rust     •    •    •  • 

17  A 

01^ 

To  make  Javelle  water  ... 

377 

Removing   sewing-machine  oil 

To  prevent  kid  from  crackinCT 

J^i 

■3*7; 

To  remove  grease  spots   .    .  . 

371 

Removing  stains  from  marble  . 

373 

To  remove  paint 

776 
37° 

Restoring  colors  

177 
Oil 

To  remove  pitch  and  tar 

77C 

Riddin*7    the  house    of  water 

To  remove  white  stains  from 

386 

352 

Q i  1 1/  cic~\r\r\ c    tr>  Vwn  frnm  fiirninor 

To  take  grease  from  wood  and 

yeilow 

300 

372 

Soiled  paper,  stale  bread  for 

J. 0   temper   iron  and  earcnen 

cleaning 

379 

ware 

3"7 

Stains,  a  word  regarding  .    .  . 

77T 
0/  1 

I_Jse  of  naphtha  in  the  house* 

Stains,  fruit,  treatment  of  . 

171 
01 J 

hold  

ouy 

Stains  on  linen,  ■ —  coffee,  tea,  or 

Value  of  a  drop  of  oil  .    .    .  . 

wine  

17  A. 

Various  brands  of  flour,  points 

Stains    on   porcelain,  muriatic 

of  difference  in 

761 

acid  for  

7.76 

Wall  paper,  treatment  of  grease 

Stains,  removing  ink  .... 

7.76 

37° 

spots  on 

778 
37° 

Stale  bread  for  cleaning  soiled 

Wall  paper,  two  ways  to  repair  « 

379 

DaDer 

i~n 

Water  bugs,  ridding  the  house 

Stoning  raisins  in  an  easy  man- 

of 

3°° 

ner 

Wa\s  to  get  onion  juice  ... 

766 

Straw  matting,  care  of         .  . 

1S1 
001 

What  to  do  when  burning  acci- 

Sweeping, conveniences  to  use 

dents  occur 

300 

383 

WliQt    tr\   r\r\  wVipn    tViP  rliimnpv 
\>  Hal     LU    U-(J    il  I1CU    U1C  CllUUIiCV 

oweet  nerbs,  making  a  bouquet  01 

o°7 

is  cold    •  ••*.•••« 

78c 
353 

Tar,  how  to  remove  .... 

17 1 
Ji  J 

When  and  why  soda,  cream  of 

Testing    the    oven   heat  with 

tartar,  and  baking  powders  are 

386 

363 

Thermometers,  oven  .... 

386 

When  acids  are  spilled     .    .  . 

377 

38l 

382 

When  clothes  become  mildewed 

374 

To  clean  woods  in  natural  finish 

Woollen  goods,  to  keep  from 

To  freshen  bread  and  cake    .  . 

367 

turning  yellow  .... 

380 

BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


lllllllllltlll 

1 1 II  lull  mi  mi  mi  inn  ii 

in  mm  ii 

1 

III  Will  II 

llll  III  llll  Hill  III  1 II 

111111 

1  9999  01 

5701 

5  983  ! 

Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


