BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07801   024  4 


rF 


ciV?.. 


^Qoa lii 


■^1 


lr. 


3^ 


MRS.    CROWEN'S 

LADY'S  COOKERY  BOOK, 

COMPRISING  EVKRY  VARIETY    OT    IWPORMATIOrT  FOR 

ORDINAKY  AND  HOLIDAY  OCCASIONS, 

AWD  CONTAimNG  OVER 

1200    ORIGIl^rAL    RECEIPTS 

FOR  PBEPARING  AND  GOOSING 

SOUPS    AND    BPvOTH^,   nsn  AITD  OYGTSr.S,   CLAT^IS,   IIUSCLES    AlH)    SCOL- 
LOPS,  LOBSIEPtS,    CBABS  AITD  TEHBAPHTS,   liZATS   OF   AZLL  HINDS, 
POULTEY  AND  GAIilB,  EGGS  AND  CHEESE,  VEGETABLES  AND 
SALADS,  SAUCES  OF  ALL  KINDS,  FANCY  DESSEUTG,  PUD- 
DINGS AND  CUSTARDS,  PIES  AND  TjVETS,  EE,EAD 
AND  BISCUIT,  KOLLS  AND  CAEE3,  PEESEK^-ES 
AND  JELLIES,   PICKLES  AN'D  CATSUPS, 
POTTED  HEATS,   Ctc,   etc, 

TOGETHER  WITH 

TAIiUABLE   AND    IMPORTANT   HINTS,    ON    CHOOSING    AND     PURCHASING    AIX   KINDS   OP 
PROVISIONS,    AND    PREPARING     RIFE     FHUITS   FOR    TABLE.    BI1.I.S     OF     PARK 
FOR  THE    REMZS"  OF   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS,   ARRANGKMKXT       OF 
THE  TABLE    FOR  EVERY  VARIETY  OF  DINNER  PAKTIHS,  ETI- 
QUETTE    OF    THE    DINNER     TATiLE,    COOKEHY     FOR 
INVALIDS,   CARVING  MADE  EASY,   CtC. 

Tlie  wMe  being:  a  Complete  System  of  American  Cookery, 
BY  MES.  T.  J.  CEOWEN. 

ILLUSTBATED  WITH  SEVEBAL  DIAGRAMS, 


NEW  YOIIK:  5     ^ 

BIOK     &      FITZGERALD,     PUBLISnEES. 


*  c^ 


H0o9'  /^'S 

Entered  according;  to  Act  of  Congi'css,  in  the  year  IS-iT,  ty 

T  .    J  .    C  r.  O  V  E  X , 

in  tlie  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  for  the  Southern  District  of 
New  York. 


Entered  according  to  xict  of  Confess,  in  the  ycu.r  ISGG,  by 

DICK     &    FITZGEllALD, 

in  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  for  the  Southern  District  of 
2^  ew  York. 


For  a  Complete  Index  to  this  work,  see  page  453. 


PREFACE. 


The  American  Lady's  Cook  Bode:,  which  was 
first  published  under  the  title  of  the  '^American 
System  of  Cookery,"  is  now  presented  with  numer- 
ous additions  and  thorough  revision.  To  its  already 
acknowledged  practical  value,  are  added  a  great 
number  of  excellent  original  receipts,  enhancing  it 
materially,  placing  the  unifiitiated  on  a  par  with 
the  most  experienced,  and  offering  to  the  expe- 
rienced something  new  for  every  day  uses. 

The  System  of  Cookery  studied  and  adopted  in 
the  preparation  of  this  volume  of  receipts,  is  strict- 
ly hygenic  in  its  effects,  and  although  particularly 
adapted  to  our  own  country,  it  is  not  the  less  use- 
ful for  other  countries. 

Simplicity,  that  is,  adherence  to  first  imncijples^ 
even  in  the  preparation  of  food,  will  generally  be 
found  to  produce  the  most  healthful  results.     It 


IT  PREFACE. 

may  not  be  generally  nnderstood,  hnt  it  is  most  cer- 
tainly true,  that  to  prepare  simple  food  is  as  jniicli 
a  work  of  art  as  the  mystifications  and  elaborations 
of  the  cuisine,  and  many  persons  in  this  country 
possessing  unlimited  means  prefer  the  less  luxurious 
preparations.  This  book  of  receipts  is  recommend- 
ed particularly  to  foreign  cooks,  as  it  instructs  them 
in  many  things  peculiar  to  this  country,  in  which 
books  merely  compiled  from,  or  imitations  of,  for- 
eign books,  are  deficient. 

It  is  hoped  that  both  natives  and  foreigners  will 
give  the  present  edition  a  fair  trial,  and  the  author 
trusts  it  will  return  them  daily  satisfaction* 


IW'll 


THE  '■  • 


AMERICAN  SYSTEM  OF  COOKERY. 


SOUPS. 

Soup. — Tn  soup  making  the  greatest  care  is  ne- 
cessary that  the  vessel  for  it  be  perfectly  clean, 
and  free  from  any  grease  or  sand. 

An  iron  soup-pot  must  be  washed  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  potash  or  bit  of  soda  the  size  of  a  small 
nutmeg,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  immediately  after 
using;  this  will  remove  all  greasiness  and  taste  ol 
onion,  or  any  peculiar  taste  which  might  injure  the 
next  soup  to  be  made. 

An  iron  pot  or  well  tinned  or  porcelain  kettle  is 
best  for  soup  making. 

Soup  must  have  a  sufficient  time  to  make  ; — boil 
gently,  that  the  meat  be  tender,  and  give  out  its 
juices. 

The  pot  must  not  be  uncovered  more  frequently 
than  is  necessary  for  skimming  it  clear. 

The  required  quantity  of  salt  put  in  with  the 
meat  will  cause  the  scum  to  rise,  and  therefore 
make  the  soup  clearer. 

Allow  a  quart  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
for  each  pound  of  meat. 

Soup  may  be  made  of  any  sort  of  fish,  flesh  or 
fowi  inferior  pieces  of  meat,  such  as  the  neck  or 
scrag,  knuckle  bone,  etc. 

Remains  of  cooked  meats  of  several  kinds  to- 
gether make  a  good  soup  ;  for  this  purpose,  the 
meat  should  be  chopped  or  cut  small,  and  seasoned 


12  SOUP. 

with  pepper  and  salt,  and  hot  water,  (not  boil- 
ing,) a  quart  to  each  pound  of  meat  put  to  it; 
then  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour  before 
putting  in  the  vegetables. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  no  one  seasoning  pre- 
dominates; for  this  reason  the  exact  quantity  of 
each  sort  is  specified  in  the  following  receipts. 

Take  off  every  particle  of  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
before  the  vegetables  are  put  in. 

The  greens  and  vegetables  for  soup  must  be 
carefully  prepared,  that  is,  picked  clean  and  washed. 

Where  fat  soup  is  not  liked,  the  grease  must  be 
skimmed  off  before  putting  in  the  vegetables ;  it 
will  then  be  fit  for  other  uses. 

Soup  meat  must  be  put  down  in  cold  water  and 
boiled  very  gentW. 

The  w\ater  in  which  meat  or  fowls  have  been 
boiled,  will  make  good  broth  ;  it  is  not  rich  enough 
for  soup  without  the  addition  of  other  meat. 

The  meat  from  which  soup  has  been  made,  is 
good  to  serve  cold  thus:  take  out  all  the  bones,  sea- 
son with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  catsup,  if  liked,  tljen 
chop  it  small,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and  lay  it  between 
two  plates,  with  a  weight  on  the  upper  one  :  slice  it 
thin  for  luncheon  or  supper ;  or  make  sandwiches 
of  it;  or  make  a  hash  for  breakfast;  or  make  it  in 
balls,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  w^heat  flour  and 
an  egg,  and  ^erve  them  fried  in  fat,  or  boiled  in  the 
soup. 

The  vegetables  used  in  soups  are  carrots,  leeks, 
parsley,  turnip,  celery,  tomatoes,  ochras,  cabbage, 
cauliflower,  green  beans,  peas,  and  potatoes. 

One  leek,  one  large  carrot,  one  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  two  turnips  for  a  pot  of  soup. 

One  hea3  of  celery,  one  leek,  two  small  turnips, 
and  five  or  six  small  potatoes,  another. 

Five    or    six   tomatoes    skinned    and   the  seeds 


SOUP.  13 

squeezed  out,  one  leek,  abuncli  of  parsley,  and  five 
or  six  potatoes  cut  snnall,  another. 

Carrot,  cabbage,  turnip  toriftitoes,  and  potatoes, 
another. 

Ochras  alone  are  sufficient  vegetable  for  a  dish 
of  soup. 

Green  peas  and  new  potatoes  are  enough  for  lamb 
soup. 

Vermicelli  or  maccaroni  are  enough  with  the 
usual  seasoning  for  chicken,  lamb,  or  veal  soup. 

It  is  well  to  begin  to  prepare  the  vegetables  as 
soon  as  the  meat  is  put  down. 

Trim  and  scrape  carrots  clean,  and  cut  them 
across  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  notch 
the  edge  of  each  slice  neatly,  or  cut  each  slice  in 
stars  or  rings  ;  or  grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater — gra- 
ted, it  gives  a  fine  amber  color  to  the  soup. 

Wash  parsley  and  cut  it  small.  Pare  turnips 
and  cut  them  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  then 
divide  each  slice  in  halves  or  quarters.  Cut  leeks 
in  slices  as  thick  as  a  dollar  piece. 

Cut  celery  in  half  inch  lengths  ;  the  delicate  green 
leaves  impart  a  fine  flavor  to  the  soup. 

Take  the  skins  from  tomatoes,  and  squeeze  out 
some  of  the  seeds. 

Shave  cabbage  in  thin  slices.      * 

Slice  ochras  ;  boil  cauliflower  in  water,  then  cut 
it  small. 

Pare  potatoes  if  old,  or  scrape,  if  young  ones. 
Slice  old  potatoes  an  inch  thick,  and  put  them  iilito 
soup  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done. 

]f  the  soup  is  too  rich  by  boiling  a  long  time, 
make  it  less  so  b}?-  the  addition  of  boiling  water. 

Peas,  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  green  beans 
stringed  and  cut  small,  or  lirna  beans  may  be  used 
in  soups. 

Pearl  barley  err  rice  are  used  as  thickening. 


14  PORTABLE    SOUP. 

Giated  carrot  gives  a  fine  amber  color  to  soup  ; 
it  must  be  put  in  as  soon  as  the  soup  is  free  from 
scum.  ^ 

To  color  soup  brown  ;  use  browned  flour  or  a  little 
burnt  brown  susfar  in  ihe  ihickcnini^. 

Pounded  spinach  leaves,  give  a  fine  2:reen  color 
to  soup.  Parsley,  or  the  green  leaves  of  celery  put 
in  soup  will  serve  instead  of  spinach. 

Pound  a  large  handful  of  spinach  in  a  mortar, 
then  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  wring  out  all  the  juice  ;  put 
this  to  the  soup  you  wish  to  color  green,  five  minutes 
before  taking  it  up. 

Mock  turtle,  and  sometimes  veal  or  lamb  soups 
are  liked  this  color. 

Ochras  give  a  green  color  to  soups. 

To  color  soup  red,  skin  six  red  tomatoes,  squeeze 
out  the  seeds  and  put  them  into  the  soup  with  the 
other  vegetables — or  take  the  juice  only  as  directed 
for  spinach. 

For  white  soups,  which  are  of  veal,  lamb  or 
chicken,  none  but  white  vegetables  are  used  ;  rice, 
pearl  barle}",  vermicelli,  or  maccaroni  for  thicken- 
ing. 

To  MAKE  Portable  Soup. — Take  about  twen- 
ty-five pounds  of  the  leg  of  beef,  take  off*  all  ihe 
skin  and  fat  as  well  as  you  can;  then  take  all  the 
meat  and  sinews  clear  from  bones;  put  it  in  a  large 
pot,  and  put  to  it  four  gallons  and  a  half  of  water, 
and  put  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  then  put  ten  ounces 
of  salt  and  two  and  a  half  of  pepper  to  it ;  let  it 
Doil  gently  ;  take  ofT  the  scum  as  it  rises  ;  peel  six 
onions  or  as  many  leeks,  and  add  them  to  it,  with  a 
small  bundle  of  thyme,  and  a  dry  hard  crust  ol 
bread  ;  stir  it  well  to^r^ther,  cover  the  pot  close,  and 
let  it  simmer  gentW  wllrfour  or  five  hours,  then  un- 
cover it  and  stir  it  together  again.,  after  which  covei 


OYSTER    SOUP  15 

It  close ;  and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  a  rich  strong 
jelly,  which  you  will  know  by  taking  a  little  now 
and  then  in  a  snucer  to  cool;  when  you  find  it 
so,  take  it  off  and  strain  it  througli  a  coarse  muslin 
bag;  press  it  hard,  then  strain  it  through  a  coarse 
hair  sieve  into  a  large  earthen  pan,  and  when 
it  is  quite  cold  take  oil*  the  scum  and  fat,  and  take 
ihe  jelly  clear  from  settlings  at  the  bottom,  then  put 
ii  in  a  large  well-tinned  stew-pan;  and  set  it  on  a 
stove  with  a  slow  tire  ;  keep  stirring  it  often,  and 
take  care  that  it  neither  sticks  to  the  pan  or  burns. 

When  you  fiiid  the  jelly  very  stiff  and  thick,  as 
it  will  be,  in  lumps  about  the  pan,  take  it  out  and 
put  it  in  large  deep  earthenware  cups;  set  the  cups 
in  a  pan,  and  fill  it  with  boiling  water  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  cups,  taking  care  that  no  water  gets  into 
them;  keep  it  boiling  very  gently  all  the  time,  add 
more  boiling  water  as  it  wastes  away,  until  ja:)u  find 
the  jelly  like  a  stiff*  glue;  take  out  the  cups,  and 
when  they  are  cool,  turn  out  the  glue  on  a  coarse 
new  flannel ;  let  it  lay  eight  or  nine  hours,  then  put 
in  the  sun  until  it  is  quite  hard  and  dry.  Put  it  in 
boxes  of  tin,  with  writing  paper  between  the  pieces, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place  ;  let  the  boxes 
be  covered  with  a  close  fitting  cover. 

When  w^anted  for  use,  pour  boiling  water  on  to  it, 
and  stir  it  all  the  time  until  it  is  melted.  A  piece 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  will  make  a  pint  of  water 
very  rich.  Boil  celery  or  any  vegetable  you  like 
in  the  water  before  putting  in  the  glue  ;  w^hen  it  is 
dissolved  let  it  boil  up  once. 

A  small  bit  dissolved  in  boiling  water  makes  a 
fine  broth. 

Oyster  Soup. — Take  of  water  and  milk,  each 
three  pints;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil;  roll  half  a 
{>ound  of  butter  crackers,  or  soda  biscuit  fine,  and 


16  CABBAGE    AND    MILK    SOUP. 

add  to  the  milk  and  water  with  a  pint  of  oysters 
chopped  fine  ;  let  it  boil  until  the  flavor  of  the  o\^ster 
is  given  to  the  soup,  and  the  crackers  are  well 
swelled,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  three 
pints  more  of  the  oysters,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sweet  butter;  cover  it  for  ten  minutes  more,  then 
serve  it  in  a  tureen.  A  small  saltspoonful  of  cay- 
enne pepper  added  to  it  when  the  oysters  are  put  in, 
is  by  most  persons  considered  an  improvement. 

Another  CfvsTER  Soup. — Take  a  knuckle  of 
veal  or  a  leg  of  lamb  ;  allow  a  quart  of  water  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  pound;  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  and  let  it  simmer  (after  having  come  to 
a  boil)  for  at  least  two  hours  ;  skim  it  clear,  then  put 
to  it  half  a  pound  of  rolled  crackers,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  a  quart  of  oysters.  Let  it  boil  up 
once,  then  add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large 
egg,  and'  serve  without  the  meat.  Vermicelli  or 
maccaroni  may  be  used  instead  of  crackers  for  this 
soup  if  preferred. 

Lobster  Soup. — After  having  boiled  a  lobster, 
take  it  from  the  shell,  roll  two  or  three  crackers, 
and  put  them  to  the  meat,  which  must  be  cut 
small — put  of  milk  and  water,  each  a  quart,  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  add  the 
lobster,  cut  small,  and  the  green  inside  if  liked,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter;  let  it  boii 
closely  covered  for  half  an  hour  ;  break  a  dozen 
butter  crackers,  or  six  or  seven  soda  biscuit,  into  a 
tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  and  serve. 

Cabbage  and  Milk  Soup. — Cut  a  large  white- 
heart  cabbage  in  quarters,  first  taking  off'  the  out- 
side leaves,  put  it  in  two  ouarts  of  boiling  water, 


GHEEN    PEA    SOUP.  17 

cover  it,  and  set  it  over  a  fire  for  half  an  liour; 
then  take  out  half  of  the  water,  add  three  pints  of 
boiling  milk,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  cover  it  for  ten 
minutes  ;  cut  ^slices  of  delicately  toasted  bread,  in 
squares  or  lozenges,  (first  taking  off  the  crust,)  put 
them  in  a  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over — or, 
instead  of  toast,  use  broken  soda  biscuit. 

Ox-head  Soup. — Take  the  skin  and  eyes  from 
an  ox  head  ;  put  half  of  it  in  cold  water  over 
night,  then  break  the  bones  and  wash  it  in  warm 
water ;  put  it  in  a  soup-kettle  with  water  more 
than  to  cover  it,  let  it  boil  gently;  salt  it  and  skim 
it  clear,  and  when  the  meat  is  tender,  add  two  tur- 
nips sliced,  a  grated  or  sliced  carrot,  one  leek  or 
one  or  two  sliced  white  onions,  five  qr  six  potatoes 
cut  small,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  cover 
and  stew  gently  until  the  meat  parts  from  the 
bones;  then  take  out  the  meat  and  bones,  and  serve 
the  soup  in  a  tureen.  If  the  soup  is  richer  than  is 
liked,  add  boiling  water. 

Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  bones,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  made  mustard,  chop  it  small,  tie 
it  in  a  cloth  and  press  it  between  two  plates.  When 
cold,  it  is  fine  for  supper  or  sandwich,  sliced  thin. 

Green  Pea  Soup. — Wash  a  small  quarter  of 
lamb  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with 
six  quarts  of  cold  water  ;  add  to  it  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire — let  it 
boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  skim  it  clear ;  add 
a  quart  of  shelled  peas,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per; cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then 
having  scraped  the  skins  from  a  quart  of  small 
young  potatoes,  add  theni  to  the  soup  ;  cover  the 


18  TUIITLE    SOUP. 

pot,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour  longer  ;  work 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  dessert  spoon- 
ful of  flour  together,  and  add  them  to  the  §oup  ten 
or  twelve  minutes  before  taking  it  oflf'the  fire. 

Serve  the  meat  on  a  dish  with  parsley  sauce 
over,  and  the  soup  in  a  tureen. 

Another  Green  Pea  Soup. — Put  two  pounds 
of  veal,  or  lamb  cutlets  or  steaks,  and  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  salt  fat  pork,  sliced  thin,  into  two  quarts 
of  water,  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire ;  when  it 
boils,  skim  it  clear,  add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  and 
a.dozen  small  new  potatoes  (lljeir  skins  scraped 
off),  cover  it  close  for  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  the 
peas  are  tender,  then  add  half  a  teacup  of  sweet 
butter,  w^ith  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour 
worked  into  it,  and  pepper  to  taste ;  if  the  pork  is 
not  suflBcient,  add  more  salt. 

Serve  in  a  tureen,  without  the  meat.  Shelled 
Lima  beans  may  be  used  in  iheir  season  instead  ot 
peas. 

Turtle  Soup. — Cut  the  head  off  the  turtle  the 
day  b(?fore  you  dress  it,  and  place  the  body  so  as  to 
drain  it  well  from  blood  ;  then  cut  it  up  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  divide  the  back,  belly,  heruJ  and 
fins,  from  the  intestines  and  lean  parts  ;  take  care 
to  cut  the  gall  clean  out  without  breaking — scald  in 
boiling  water  the  first  named  parts  so  as  to  take 
off  the  skin  and  shell;  cut  them  in  neat  square 
pieces  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  ;  boil  the 
back  and  bellv  in  a  little  water  Ions:  enouo^h  to 
extract  the  bones  easily,  then  make  a  good  stock 
of  a  leg  of  veal,  a  slice  of  ham,  and  the  flesh  of  the 
inside  of  the  turtle;  let  it  do  away  until  it  is 
browned,  then  fill  it  up  with  water,  and  the  liquor 


SOUP    WITHOUT    MEAT.  19 

atid  bones  of  the  boiled  turtle.  Season  with  sliced 
lemon,  whole  pepper,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  If^ek 
sliced,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  four 
hours,  then  strain  it  to  the  pieces  of  back,  belly, 
head  and  fins  of  the  turtle  (take  the  bones  from  the 
fins);  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  sweet  butter,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  worked  into  it,  and  a  lemon 
sliced  thin  ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then 
serve. 

[n  cutting  up  the  turtle,  the  fat  should  be  taken 
great  care  of;  it  should  be  separated  and  cut  in 
neat  pieces,  and  stewed  tender  in  a  little  of  th^ 
soup,  and  put  into  the  tureen  when  ready  to  serve. 

Catfish  or  Bullhead  Soup. — Cut  the  heads 
from  two  pounds  of  fisli,  skin  and  clean  them,  and 
wash  them  well;  cut  tliem  in  pieces,  and  put  with 
them  one  pound  of  fat  ham  or  salt  pork,  some  pep- 
per, and  two  quarts  of  water  ;  let  it  boil  until  the 
fish  is  tender  ;  beat  two  fresh  eggs  with  tw^o  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  gill  of  milk,  stir  it  into  the 
soup,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  let  it  boil  toge- 
ther for  a  .few  minutes,  then  take  out  the  ham  or 
pork,  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Eel  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  or 
like  lobster  soup. 

Soup  without  Meat. — Put  two  quarts  of  wnter 
in  a  stew-pan  with  a  penny  roll  cut  up,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  white  onion  or  two,  cut 
small,  cover  it  close  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour  ; 
then  add  the  white  part  of  a  bunch  of  celerv,  cut 
small,  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter — 
add  pepper  to  taste  ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for 
half  an  hour  longer  ;  break  half  a  pound  of  crack- 
ers into  a  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over,  and  serve. 


20  ORE  EN    BE  AX    SOUP. 

Soup  Maigre. — Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  in 
a  stew-pan,  slice  six  onions  into  it,  add  two  heads 
of  celery,  cut  small,  one  small  cabbage,  and  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  cut  small;  shake  these  together 
over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  three 
rolled  crackers  ;  add  further,  two  quarts  of  boiling 
milk  or  water,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  let  it 
boil  gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then  take 
it  from  the  fire,  stir  into  it  two  well  beaten  eggs^ 
and  serve. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Clean  and  wash  a  calf's 
head,  split  it  in  two,  save  the  brains,  boil  the  head 
until  tender  in  plenty  of  water  ;  put  a  slice  of  fat 
ham,  a  bunch  of  parsley  cut  small,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  two  leeks  cut  small,  six  cloves,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  and  three  ounces  of  butter,  into  a 
stew-pan.  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown  ;  then  add 
the  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  cut  the 
meat  from  the  head  in  neat  square  pieces,  and  put 
them  to  the  soup  ;  add  a  pint  of  Madeira  and  one 
lemon  sliced  thin,  add  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  ;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours,  then 
skim  it  clear  and  serve. 

Make  a  forcemeat  of  the  brains  as  follows:  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan,  pour  hot  water  over,  and  set'it 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  take  them  up, 
chop  them  small,  with  a  sprig  of  parsle}^  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  each,  a  tablespoonful 
of  wheat  flour,  the  same  of  butler,  and  one  well- 
beaten  egg;  make  it  in  small  balls,  and  drop  them 
in  the  soup  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from 
the  fire;  in  making  the  balls,  a  litde  more  flour 
may  be  necessarv.     Ei>^-  balls  uiav  also  be  added, 

Greex  Beax  Soup. — String  half  a  peck  or  less 
'>f  young  green  beans,  cut  them   in  pieces  an  inch 


CHICKEN^    SOUP.  81 

long,  and  finish  the  same  as  directed  for  green  pea 
soup. 

Split  Peas  Soup. — Put  a  quart  of  split  peas 
in  water  to  cover  tneni,  at  night,  with  half  a  tea-" 
spoonful  of  saleratus  ;  next  day  take  them  from  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  and  put  to  them 
two  quarts  of  water  and  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  with 
a  bone  of  beef;  let  it  boil  gently  until  the  peas  are 
tender,  then  add  five  or  six  potatoes,  and  pepper  to 
taste;  c(  or  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  c^^  butter  and  flour  each,  worked  toge- 
ther— cover  it  until  the  potatoes  are  done,  which 
will  be  about  fifteen  minutes  :  serve  in  a  tureen. 

Dried  Bean  Soup. — Make  the  same  as  split 
peas  soup. 

Fish  Soup. — Take  different  sorts  of  small  fish, 
steam  them  until  tender;  them  add  some  veal  broth, 
Cut  two  turnips  in  slices,  also  one  leek  and  one  head 
of"  celery ;  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  it, 
or  take  out  the  bones;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
work  a  table-spoonful  of  wheat  flour,  with  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  add  egg  balls ;  covei  for  ten 
minutes  and  serve. 

Chicken  Soup,  {Yellow,) — Take  two  pounds  of 
veal  or  lamb,  and  one  small  chicken  cut  up;  boil 
these  in  three  quarts  of  water,  skim  it  clear;  slice 
a  leek,  or  two  white  onions,  grate  two  small  or  one 
large  carrot,  and  put  to  the  soup  ;  add  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper;  \vt  it  boil 
gently  for  nearly  two  hours,  then  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  the  same  of  flour  worked  together, 
cover  it  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  it  in  a  tureen. 

Take  the  chicken  into  a  deep  dish,  add  butter 


S2  ONION    SOUP. 

and  pepper  to  it,  and  serve  garnished  with  sprigs  of 
parsley.  The  meat  may  be  made  in  balls  and  put 
in  the  soup  ;  chop  it  fine  ;  add  a.  tablespooniul  of 
butler  and  flour  each,  and  asaltspoonful  of  pepper, 
with  one  beaten  egg;  dip  your  hands  in  flour,  and 
make  the  preparation  in  balls,  drop  them  into  soup 
with  the  butter  and  flour. 

Chicken  Soup,  (WJtite.) — Make  as  directed  for 
yellow  soup,  without  the  carrot ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  only  ;  put  a  cup  of  well  washed  rice  or 
pearl  barley  as  soon  as  it  is  clear  from  scum  ;  when 
nearly  done  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  flour, 
each  worked  together;  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes 
longer,  then  serve. 

Onion  Soup. — Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter in  a  stew-pan,  w^ith  six  large  white  onions  cut 
in  slices,  let  them  fry  a  nice  brown,  then  add  six 
crackers  rolled,  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water;  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  and 
serve. 

Another  Onion  Soup. — Put  half  a  pound  of 
butter  into  a  stew^-pan  and  let  it  boil  ;  have  ready 
ten  or  twelve  large  onions,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices, 
put  them  into  the  butter  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown, 
sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  shake  the  pan 
often,  and  keep  it  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  three  pints  of  boiling  milk,  stir  it  well,  cut  some 
pie  paste  in  slips  and  drop  them  in  ;  add  salt  to 
taste;  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes, stirring  it  fretpient 
ly,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  work  the  yolks  of  two 
hard  boiled  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
first  mix  a  little  of  the  soup  with  this,  then  stir  it 
into  the  rema*inder. 


SHIN    OF    BEEF    SOUP.  23 

Hare  Soup. — Skin  and  clean  a  hare,  then  cut 
it  np  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown  with  hird  or  hiitter  ;  then  put  it  in  a  soup- 
pot,  with  two  onions  sliced  and  fried,  a  bunch  of 
parsley  fried,  and  enouG^h  hot  water  to  cover  it  ;  let 
it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  two  or 
three  blades  of  mace,  a  glass  or  two  of  Maderia  or 
port  wine,  a  tablespoon ful  of  browned  flour  WT)rked 
into  a  small  teacup  of  butter  ;  let  it  simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  and  serve. 

The  bones  of  poultry  added  to  this  soup  while 
boihng,  and  taken  out  l)ef()re  serving,  will  improve 
it.     A  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  maybe  added. 

A  chicken,  or  old  fowl,  or  duck  soup,  may  be 
made  in  the  same  manner. 

Shin  of  Beef  Soup. — Get  a  shin  bone  of  beef 
weighing  f[:)ur  or  five  pounds;  let  the  butcher  saw 
it  in  pieces  about  two  inches  long,  that  the  marrow 
may  become  the  better  incorporated  with  the  soup, 
and  so  o:ive  it  greater  richness. 

Wash  the  meat  in  cold  w^ater ;  mix  too^ether  of 
salt  and  pepper  each  a  tablespoon  ful,  rub  this  well 
into  the  meat,  then  put  into  a  soup-pot;  put  to  it  as 
many  quarts  of  water  as  there  are  pounds  of  meat, 
and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  then  take  off  whatever  scum  may  have  risen, 
after  which  cover  it  close  ;  and  set  it  where  it  will 
boil  very  gently  for  two  hours  longer;  then  skim  it 
again,  and  add  to  it  the  proper  vegetables  which  are 
these — one  large  carrot  grated,  one  large  turnip  cut 
in  slices,  (the  j^ellow  or  ruta  baga  is  best)  one  leek 
cut  in  slices,  one  bunch  of  parsley  cut  small,  six 
small  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  half,  and  a  teacup- 
ful  of  pearl  bailey  well  washed  ;  then  cover  it  and 
let  it  boil  gently  tor  one  hour,  at  which  time  add 
another  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  thickening  made 


24  BEEF    SOUP. 

of  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  and  a  gill  of  water  ' 
stir  it  in  by  the  spoonful;  cover  it  for  fifteen  min- 
utes and  it  is  done. 

Three  hours  and  a  half  is  required  to  make  this 
soup  :  it  is  best  for  cold  weather.  Should  any  re- 
main over  the  first  day,  it  may  be  heated  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  boilins:  water,  and  served  aijain. 

Take  the  meat  from  the  soup,  and  if  to  be  served 
with  it,  take  out  the  bones,  and  lay  it  closely  and 
neatly  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley; 
serve  made  mustard  and  catsup  with  it.  It  is  very 
nice  pressed  and  eaten  with  mustard  and  vinegar 
or  catsup. 

In  makins:  this  soup  there  may  be  this  variation; 
instead  of  the  last  thickening,  make  a  batter  of  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  as  much 
wheat  flour  as  will  make  a  smooth  batter,  about  as 
thick  as  pound  cake;  drop  it  by  the  spoonful  into 
the  boiling  soup,  until  all  is  used,  then  cover  it  for 
fifteen  minutes.     Tliis  is  called  egg  dumplings. 

Beef  Soup. — Take  four  pounds  of  beef,  for  four 
quarts  of  water,  and  finish  with  any  vegetables  3'ou 
like,  the  same  as  shin-of-beef  soup,  or  as  follows — 

Take  two  tahlespoonsful  of  salt,  and  one  of  pep- 
per, (fine  black)  rub  it  well  into  the  meat,  then  put 
it  over  a  moderate  fire,  with  one  quart  of  water; 
let  it  boil  very  gently  for  one  hour,  then  add  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  cover  it  close,  skim  it  clear 
and  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  another  hour,  in  which 
time  prepare  the  vegetables  as  follows — One  large 
carrot  scraped  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  one  large  or 
two  small  turnips  cut  in  the  same  manner,  six  sniall 
potatoes  of  equal  size  cut  in  halves,  and  one  head  ot 
celer}^  leaves  and  white  part  cut  small ;  the  carrots 
and  turnips  should  be  sliced  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick. 


VEAL    OR    LAMB    JSOUP  26 

When  the  first  hour  is  up,  put  in  the  carrots,  fif- 
teen minutes  after  add  the  turnips  and  celer\^ ;  aftei 
another  fifteen  minutes,  put  in  tlie  potatoes  and  a 
thickening  made  of  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  and 
as  much  cold  water  as  will  make  a  smooth  thin 
batter;  stir  it  in  by  the  spoonful ;  cover  the  pot  for 
fifteen  minutes  ;  let  it  boil,  and  as  soon  as  the  pota- 
toes are  tender  it  is  done.  Soup  should  not  be 
taken  off  the  fire  whilst  making. 

Beef  Broth. — Take  four  pounds  of  beef,  crack 
the  bone  in  two  or  three  places,  wash  it  in  cold  wa- 
ter, and  put  it  with  a  gallon  of  water  over  a  m. ode- 
rate  fire  ;  add  to  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  let  it  boil  slowly,  take 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises;  in  two  hours  add  a  bunch 
of  parsley  cut  small,  or  a  head  of  celery,  let  it 
simmer  for  an  hour  longer. 

Toast  some  slices  of  bread  a  delicate  brown,  cut 
it  in  squares,  or  lozenges,  put  them  in  a  tureen,  and 
pour  the  soup  over. 

A  cup  of  pearl  barley,  well  washed,  and  put  in 
with  the  meat  will  be  liked  by  invalids  ;  or  vermi- 
celli or  maccaroni  stewed  tender  in  it,  is  both 
healthful  and  palateable. 

A  leek,  or  two  or  three  tomatoes  may  be  added 
to  the  broth. 

Veal  or  Lamb  Soup. — The  scrag  or  neck  of 
veal  or  lamb,  or  the  leg,  is  best  for  making  soup. 
A  slice  of  corned  pork  or  ham  is  an  improvement 
to  veal  or  lamb  soup. 

For  four  pounds  of  m.eat  allow  four  quarts  of 
water;  wash  the  meat  in  cold  water,  trim  olT  the 
rough  ends,  and  shape  it  neatly,  then  put  it  and 
the  odd  bits  into  a  soup  pot  with  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  tea* 

B 


86  calf's  head  soup. 

spoonful  of  fine  pepper;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  one  hour,  then  skim  it  clear;  add 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
for  one  hour  longer;  then  skim  it  again,  and  add 
sliced  ochras,  or  any  other  vegetables  which  may 
be  preferred — a  leek  sliced,  a  bunch  of  parsley  cut 
small,  and  a  carrot  gcated  or  cut  in  slices  and  the 
edges  neatly  notched  ;  or  a  bunch  of  asparagus, 
the  tops  and  green  parts  cut  the  size  of  peas  or  a 
little  larger.  These  vegetables  should  be  put  in 
half  an  hour  betore  the  soup  is  done.  I'hree  hours 
w^ill  be  required  for  aiaking  the  soup;  if  asparagus 
is  used,  toust  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  them 
freely,  cut  them  small,  and  put  them  in  the  tureen 
before  putting  in  the  soup. 

For  suitable  combinations  of  vegetables,  sec 
introductor}'  remarks. 

Take  up  the  meat  b}'' itself,  and  serve  with  drawn 
I  utter  sauce  and  mashed  potatoes. 

The  bones  of  poultry  or  cold  roast  beef  put  in 
with  the  meat  to  make  the  soup,  and  taken  out  be- 
fore serving,  improves  the  flavor  of  veal  or  lamb 
soup;  cold  fried  or  broiled  steaks,  whether  of  beef 
or  lamb,  may  be  added  to  the  soup  and  im- 
prove it. 

Vermicelli,  maccaroni,  green  peas,  ochras  or 
tomatoes,  maybe  used  in  these  soups  ;  atablespoon- 
ful  of  sweet  butter,  w^ith  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
flour  worked  into  it,  should  be  stirred  mto  the 
soup,  ten  minutes  before  taking  it  from  the  fire. 

Calf's  Head  Soup. — Get  a  cleaned  calf's 
head,  split  it  open,  and  save  the  brains  to  make 
forcemeat  balls ;  put  it  in  a  soup-pot  with  five 
quarts  of  water,  add  to  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  set  it  over  a  mod- 
t^aie  fire  and  take  oflf  the-  scum  as  it  rises.     Aff^i 


CHICKEN    BROTH.  27 

three  hours,  take  out  the  liead,  take  the  hones  from 
it,  cut  the  best  of  it  in  square  pieces,  skin  the 
tongue  nnd  cut  it  in  shces,  and  return  it  to  the 
soup  ;  now  add  the  vegetables,  which  are  tliese  : 
one  liead  of  celery  cut  small,  one  leek  sliced  thin, 
one  large,  or  two  small  carrots  shced  thin  and  the 
edges  neatly  notched,  and  six  equal  sized  small 
potatoes,  pared  and  cut  in  halves  ;  cover  the  pot 
for  Ijalf  an  hour,  then  work  two  tablespoon fuls  of 
butte^r  with  the  same  of  flour  and  stir  it  into  the 
soup.  Make  forcemeat  balls  of  the  brains,  thus: 
scald  them  and  chop  them  small,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Initter  and  the  same  of  wheat  flour,  season 
with  pepf)er  and  salt,  and  make  it  in  ST.iall  balls; 
flour  the  outside  of  each,  and  drop  them  into 
the  boiling  soup  about  fifteen  minutes  before  ii  is 
done. 

The  soup  may  be  served  without  the  meat,  ex- 
cept the  tongue  and  balls — the  meat  may,  in  such 
case,  be  chopped  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  tlien  tie  it  in  a  muslin  bag  and  press 
it  between  two  plates  until  cold  ;  serve  shced  tl]in 
for  sandwiches  or  supper — or  make  it  a  hash  for 
breakfast. 

Chicken  Broth. — Cut  up  a  fuUgrow^n  chicken, 
put  to  it  three  pints  of  cold  water,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teacup  of  pearl  barley  (or 
rice  if  preferred)  ;  cover  it  close  and  let  it  simmer 
for  an  hour,  then  skim  it  clear,  add  pepper  to 
taste  ;  take  the  chicken  into  a  dish,  put  bits  of 
sweet  butter  over,  shake  some  pepper  over,  and 
serve  v/ith  mashed  potatoes — serve  the  soup  in  a 
tureen. 

The  barley  or  rice  may  be  omjtted,  and  five  oi 
six  rolled  crackers,  with  a  tablespoonfui  of  butter, 
subsututed  when  the  broth  is  nearly  d{>ne. 


3S 
iex;    -t^ 


./i^¥F.  Z.:  L  Sorr- — 


iK.' 


STOCK  r : :.    : :  .    : 

-    -  -  ~—p^ 

2^ 

--_/^^,j  -.»r 

i>e.?.: 

~                _ 

b-rrfr^ 

hncj  cover  :                 -  ten  miL  _ 

rf  a  pound  o:  ^    r  ri  .  ::r:er.  ii. 

-  >~-    -  -- 

"^          V    ^           — '^ 

: 

::   .^ 

■f 

1  V  r :                 f  irill  cover  :  ^ 

coverec  . 

- 

fbronei 

1 

aqoaute: 
kol;  sk^v 

f 

the  who 

:   be- 

comes  fc 

— -- 

laisewr 

> 

dbcy  are  luce.  v  . 

some  cracker?  -r* 

milk  or  - 

Veal  ::  , .--     _ 

;^rOCX    FOS    OSJLTT     ^OTTP    OK    C^ILA'  Y,— 


30  VEGETABLE    SOUP. 

meat  from  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  put  it  with  a 
pound  of  lean  beef,  into  two  quarts  of  water  ;  add 
one  tablespooiiful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
j)er  ;  cover  it  close  and  let  it  stew  until  very  tender, 
then  strain  it  and  use  for  soup  or  grav\\ 

X  Cabbage  Soup. — Boil  five  pounds  of  corned  or 
salt  beef  in  five  quarts  of  water,  very  gently  for 
one  hour,  and  skim  it  clear,  then  add  two  small 
heads  of  cabbage  cut  in  quarters  and  well  washed, 
(examine  carefully,  as  insects  are  sometimes  con- 
cealed between  the  leaves;)  when  it  Is  done  tender, 
which  it  will  be  in  about  forty  minutes,  take  out  the 
largest  pieces,  and  drain  tliem  in  a  cullender,  put 
them  in  a  covered  dish,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
to  keep  it  hot;  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  tender,  take 
that  up  also,  (trv  it  by  sticking  a  fork  into  it,  if  when 
3^ou  twist  the  fork  the  meat  breaks,  it  is  enough,) 
put  it  belween  two  plates  to  press,  and  set  it  over  a 
pot  of  hot  Welter  to  keep  hot;  add  to  the  soup  two 
or  three  turnips  peeled  nnd  sliced ;  one  large  or  two 
small  carrots  sliced  or  grated,  and  an  onion  or  leek 
sliced  also;  six  or  eight  equal  sized  potatoes  peeled 
nently  ;  let  it  bod  for  half  an  hour  when  the  vege- 
tables will  be  done  ;  stir  into  it  a  baiter  made  of  a 
tablespoonful  of  wheat  Hour  and  cold  water;  cover 
it  for  ten  minutes  and  it  is  done. 

Then  take  the  potatoes  into  a  dish  and  serve  the 
soup  in  a  tureen. 

Thus  vou  have  a  dish  of  meat,  a  tureen  of  soup, 
and  potatoes  and  cabbage  accompanying  vegeta- 
bles. These  constitute,  with  some  simj)le  dessert,  a 
good  family  dinner. 

Vegetable  Soup,  (Summer.) — Take  three  or 
four  young  carrots,  tliree  young  turnips,  and  one 
led;     scrape  the  carrots  and  peel  the  turnij)s,  and 


SOUP    IN    HASTE.  31 

cut  tliem  in  thin  slices  ;  cut  each  slice  of  turnip  in 
four ;  put  them  in  two  quarts  of  broth  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cover  it,  and  let  them 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  head  of  white 
lettuce  cut  small,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  broken 
ap ;  cover  it  and  let  them  boil  for  fifteen  minutes 
longer,  and  it  is  done. 

Soup  in  Haste. — Chop  some  cold  cooked  meat 
very  fine,  and  put  a  pint  of  it  with  some  gravy  or 
a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  dredge  over  an  even  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  then  add  a  quart  or  more  of  boiling  water ; 
cover  it  close,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  for 
half  an  hour;  then  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth, 
toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  delicately  brown, 
cut  them  in  small  squares  or  diamonds,  put  them 
into  a  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over.  This  soup 
may  be  made  of  uncooked  meat  in  the  same  man- 
ner; a  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat  makes  a 
rich  soup. 

Maccaroni  or  vermicelli  boiled  tender  may  be 
put  to  the  soup  ten  or  twelve  minutes  before  taking 
it  up;  carrots  sliced  thin  and  cut  in  stars,  with  tur- 
nips and  new  potatoes,  boiled  tender  in  clear  water 
and  added  to  the  soup  fifteen  minutes  before  taking 
it  up.  Also  a  few  stalks  of  celery  with  the  delicate 
green  leaves  cut  small,  or  a  bunch  of  parsley  put 
in  at  the  same  time,  make  a  fine  delicate  soup. 

Browning  for  Soups  and  Gravies. — Put  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar  into  a  frying- 
pan,  set  it  on  the  fire  to  brown,  stirring  with  i 
spoon  that  it  may  not  burn  ;  when  sufficiently  dark 
colored,  stir  into  it  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 
when  it  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  put  it  into  a 
bottle,  and  when  cold,  cork  it  close.  Use  a  table^ 
spoonful  or  more  as  may  be  wanted  to  give  color  to 
gravies  or  soup.  Or  put  wheat  flour  into  a  frying 
pan  and  brown  it  carefully  without  burning.  Keep 
it  dry  in  a  box. 


32  FISH. 


FISH. 


Introductory  Remarks. — There  are  genera] 
rules  for  choosino:  fish  of  most  sorts. 

If  the  gills  are  red  and  full,  and  the  whole  fish 
firm  and  stiff,    it    is  good. 

If  on  the  contrary,  the  gills  are  brownish,  the 
eyes  sunk,  and  the  tlesh  flabby,  the\^  are  stale. 

One  who  is  not  a  judge  of  fish,  had  better  not 
trust  to  their  own  choice,  but  deal  with  those  oa 
whose  word  they  can  rely.  Let  such  choose  for 
you,  it  will  be  to  their  interest  to  serve  vou  honest- 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  see  that  the  fish  be 
properly  cleaned  before  dressing  ;  that  is,  they  must 
be  perfectly  fre^  from  scales,  and  every  particle  of 
the  inside  scraped  from  the  backbone ;  but  not 
washed  beyond  what  is  really  necessary,  as  that 
diminishes  the  flavor  of  most  fish. 

To  boil  fish,  put  it  on  the  drainer  of  a  fish-kettle 
and  cover  it  with  w^ater  just  hot ;  let  it  boil  gently, 
otherwise  the  skin  will  break  before  the  inside  is 
done. 

Allow  ten  minutes  for  each  pound  of  fish,  unless 
it  is  veiy  thick,  then  allow  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Small  fish  w^eighing  a  pound  and  a  half  or  so  will 
require  about  fifteen  minutes.  To  try  it,  pass  a 
knife  blade  next  the  bone  ;  if  the  flesh  parts  easily, 
and  looks  white,  it  is  done. 

If  fish  is  not  taken  from  the  water  as  soon  as  done 
it  will  become  woolly  ;  if  it  is  done  before  it  is 
wanted,  take  it  up,  set  the  drainer  crosswise  of  the 
kettle,  and  lay  a  folded  napkin  over  the  fish. 

A  suitable  kettle  for  boiling  or  stewing  fish  is  very 
necessar}',  and  may  be  had  from  any  of  the  hard- 
ware or  furnishing  stores.  In  the  absence  of  a  fish 
kettle,  put  the  fish  in  a  circle  on  a  dinner  plate,  and 


BROILED    FISH.  S3 

tie  a  napkin  over  it,  then  put  in  a  large  kettle.  When 
done  take  it  up  cnrefnlly  by  the  cloth,  drain  off'  all 
the  water,  take  off'  the  nnpkiii  and  slide  the  fish  on 
a  white  napkin,  neatly  folded  on  a  Uu'ge  dish  ;  gar- 
nish with  sprips  of  parsley,  and  serve. 

Fresh  shad,  haddock,  and  whiting  are  considered 
by  some  persons  better  for  salting  a  night  before 
cooking. 

Fresh  water  fish  have  often  a  mudd}^  taste  and 
smell,  which  may  begot  rid  of  by  soaking  in  strong 
salt  and  water. 

To  Fry  or  Broil  Fish  Properly. — iVfter  the 
fish  is  well  cleansed,  lay  it  on  a  folded  towel  and  dry 
out  all  the  water.  When  well  wiped  and  dry,  roll  it 
in  wheat  flour,  rolled  crackers,  grated  stale  bread,  or 
Indian  meal,  whichever  may  be  preferred;  wheat 
flour  will  generally  be  liked. 

Have  a  thick-bottomed  fr3'ing-pan  or  spider,  wuth 
plenty  of  sweet  lard  salted  ;  (a  tablespoonful  of  salt 
to  each  pound  of  lard,)  for  fresh  fish  which  have 
not  been  previously  salted  ;  let  it  become  boiling 
hot,  then  lay  the  fish  in  and  let  it  fry  gently,  until 
one  side  is  a  fine  delicate  brown,  then  turn  the  oth- 
er ;  when  both  are  done,  take  it  up  carefully  and 
serve  quickly,  or  keep  it  covered  with  a  tin  cover, 
and  set  the  dish  \vhere  it  \vill  keep  hot. 

To  Broil. — Have  a  clean  gridiron,  and  a  clear 
but  not  fierce  fire  of  coals  ;  rub  the  bars  with  a  bit 
of  beef  suet,  that  the  fish  may  not  stick;  fish  must 
be  broiled  gently  and  thoroughly;  there  are  few 
thinofs  more  offensive  than  underdone  fish. 

For  the  broil,  have  ready  a  dish  with  a  good  bit 
of  butter  in  which  is  worked  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
enough  for  the  fish.  Lay  the  fish  upon  it,  when 
both  sides  are  nicely  done,  and  with  a  knife  blade 
put  the  butter  over  everv  part;  fish  should  be 
3  ^    ^  B* 


34  DRIED    CODFISH. 

turned  with  a  broad  blade  knife,  or  a  pancake 
turner. 

All  salt  fish  require  to  be  soaked  in  cold  water 
before  cooking,  according  to  the  time  it  has  been  in 
salt.  When  it  is  hard  and  dry,  it  will  require  thir- 
ty-six hours  soaking,  before  dressing;  the  water 
must  be  changed  thiee  or  four  times.  When  fish 
is  not  very  salt  or  hard,  twenty-four  hours  will  be 
sufficient. 

For  frying  fish,  beef  suet  or  dripping  or  sweet 
oil  may  be  used  instead  of  lard  ;  butter  is  not  good, 
it  spoils  the  color  and  tastes  strong. 

Fish  have  a  fine  appearance  prepared  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  clean  and  wash  them,  and  w^ipe 
them  dry  with  a  nice  soft  towel;  then  wet  them 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  dip  them  in  bread  crumlDs 
or  rolled  crackers.  If  done  twice  over  with  the 
egg  and  cracker  or  crumbs,  it  will  have  a  finer  ap- 
pearance. 

The  largest  sized  pan  fish,  weighmg  nearly  or 
quite  a  pound  each,  should  be  scored  or  cut  across 
each  side  from  the  head  to  the  tail,  nearly  to  the 
bone,  and  about  an  inch  apart,  that  it  may  be 
well  done.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  Have 
ready  a  thick  bottomed  frying  pan,  with  plenty  oi 
lard  salted ;  let  it  become  boiUng  hot ;  lay  the  fish 
carefully  in,  and  let  them  fry  gently,  until  one  side 
is  a  rich  yellow  brown,  then  turn  the  other  and  do 
likewise :  when  both  are  done  take  them  carefully 
up  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve.  Garnish  with  fried 
parsley. 

Dried  Codfish. — This  should  always  be  laid 
in  soak,  at  least  one  night  before  it  is  wanted  ;  then 
take  off  the  skin  and  put  it  in  plenty  of  cold  water; 
boil  it  gently,  (skimming  it  meanwRile)  for  one  hour, 
or  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it. 


COLD    BOILED    COD.  85 

Serve  with  egg  sauce ;  garnish  with  hard  boiled 
eggs  cut  in  shces,  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve 
plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 

Stewed  Salt  Cod. — Scald  some  soaked  cod 
by  putting  it  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water  for  ten 
minutes  ;  then  scrape  it  white,  pick  it  in  flakes,  and 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
worked  into  the  same  of  flour,  and  as  much  milk  as 
will  moisten  it;  let  it  stew  gently  for  ten  minutes; 
add  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  hot ;  put  it  in  a  deep 
dish,  shce  hard  boiled  eggs  over,  and  sprigs  of 
parsley  around  the  edge. 

This  is  a  nice  rehsh  for  breakfast,  with  coffee  and 
tea,  and  rolls  or  toast. 

Codfish  Cakes. — First  boil  soaked  cod,  then 
chop  it  fine,  put  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  potatoes 
boiled  and  mashed  ;  moisten  it  with  beaten  eggs  or 
milk,  and  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper ;  form 
it  in  small,  round  cakes,  rather  more  than  half  an 
inch  thick;  flour  the  outside,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
beef  drippings  until  they  are  a  delicate  brown  :  like 
fish,  these  must  be  fried  gently,  the  lard  being  boil- 
ing hot  when  they  are  pat  in;  when  one  side  is 
done  turn  the  other.     Serve  for  breakfast. 

To  make  a  Dish  of  Cold  Boiled  Cod. — Chop 
fine  some  cold  boiled  cod,  put  to  it  an  equal  quan- 
tity or  more  of  boiled  potatoes  chopped  or  mashed ; 
add  a  good  bit  of  butter  and  milk  to  make  it  moist, 
and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  cover 
it,  and  stir  it  frequently  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated; 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn;  then  take  it  up, 
make  it  in  a  roll  or  any  other  form,  mark  the  sur- 
face, take  a  pinch  of  ground  pepper  between  your 
finger>and  thumb,  and  put  spots  at  equal  distances 


36  FRIED    CODFISH    STEAKS. 

over  it;  or  wet  it   over  with  melted  butter,   and 
brown  it  in  an  oven  before  the  fire. 

Fresh  Cod. — Fresh  cod  when  good,  are  firm, 
and  the  gills  red,  and  the  eyes  are  fiiU  ;  if  at  all 
soft  or  Habb}^  it  is  not  good.  A  fine  fish  is  thick  at 
the  back  ;  the  shoulder  or  piece  near  the  head  of  a 
larore  cod  is  better  for  boilins:  than  a  small  fish. 

To  Boil  Fresh  Cod. — If  you  have  not  a  fish 
kettle,  after  cleaning  the  fish  carefully,  lay  it  on  a 
plate  in  a  circle,  and  tie  a  clean  towel  about  it;  to 
a  gallon  of  diot  water  put  a  tablespuonful  of  salt 
and  a  gill  of  vinegar  ;  put  in  the  fish  and  boil  ac- 
cording to  its  weight. 

Serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes  and  drawn  but- 
ter, parsley,  or  e^zg  sauce. 

Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  lay  a  folded 
napkin  on  die  dish  under  the  fish. 

Broiled  Fresh  Cod. — Split  a  fresh  codfish 
from  head  to  tail  by  the  backbone  ;  cut  each  side 
into  pieces  about  three  inches  wide  ;  dip  each  piece 
in  flour  and  broil  it  over  a  clear  brisk  fire  of  coals ; 
lay  the  inside  to  the  fire  first.  Have  readv  a  steak 
dish,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  in  which 
is  worked  of  salt  and  pepper  each  a  teaspoonful ; 
lay  the  pieces  of  fish  on  as  they  are  done;  turn 
them  two  or  three  times  in  the  butter  and  serve. 
Or  let  the  fish  be  cut  across  in  steaks,  of  an  inch 
in  thickness,  and  finish  in  the  same  manner. 

Fried  Codfish  Steaks. — Cut  the  fish  in  steaks 
of  about  one  inch  thickness:  or  it  may  be,  spht  as 
for  broiling  ;  dip  each  piece  in  wheat  flour,  or  rolled 
cracker,  or  Indian  meal;  have  some  lard,  (which  is 
salted  in  pro^^jortion,   a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  a 


FRIED    SHAD.  U  i 

pound,)  let  it  become  boiling  hot  in  a  frying-pan ; 
lay  in  the  steaks;  let  them  fry  gently,  without  stir- 
ring them,  until  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  then  turn 
each  steak  carefully  with  abroad  knife  ;  when  both 
sides  are  done,  serve  hot,  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
over  it. 

Baked  Cod. — Clean  a  good  sized  fish,  weighing 
four  or  five  pounds;  wash  it  and  dr}^  it  well  in  a 
cloth  ;  rub  it  inside  and  out  with  a  mixture  of  pep- 
per and  salt ;  cut  a  slice  from  a  loaf  of  bread,  spread 
it  thickly  with  butter;  moisten  it  with  hot  water, 
and  fill  the  body  of  the  fish  ;  tie  a  thread  around  it 
to  keep  the  dressing  in,  then  put  bits  of  butter,  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut,  all  over  the  surface;  dredge 
flour  over  it  until  it  looks  white  ;  then  lay  a  trivet  or 
some  muffin  rings  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  lay  the  fish 
on  ;  put  in  a  pint  of  water  to  baste  with,  then  put  it 
in  a  hot  oven  and  baste  frequently ;  in  one  liour  it 
will  be  done.  Take  it  up  on  a  hot  dish,  add  a  gill 
of  vinegar  to  the  grav}^,  or  a  lemon  out  in  very  thin 
slices  ;  dredge  in  a  little  flour;  let  it  boil  up  once ; 
stir  it  well;  add  a  very  little  hot  water  if  necessary, 
then  strain  it  into  a  gravy  boat,  lay  the  sliced  lem- 
on over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Haddock. — These  are  chosen  and  dressed  the 
same  as  cod. 

Shad. — These  are  in  season  from  the  last  of 
March  until  May;  they  are  chosen  by  the  same 
rules  as  other  fish. 

These  fish  ma}^  be  fried,  baked,  boiled,  or  salted. 

Fried  Shad. —  Scale  the  fish,  and  cut  off  the 
head,  then  split  it  open  down  the  back,  at  the  side 
of  the  backbone;  take  out  the  entrails  ;  keep  the 


38        BROILED  AND  BAKED  SHAD. 

roe  or  eggs  to  be  fried  with  the  fish  ;  then  cut  it  in 
two  from  head  to  tail,  and  cut  each  side  in  pieces, 
two  or  three  inches  w^ide  ;  rinse  them  in  cold  wa- 
ter, wipe  them  dry,  and  dip  each  in  wheat  flour,  and 
fiy  in  salted  lard  ;  when  the  inside,  which  must 
always  be  cooked  first,  (of  any  fish)  is  done  a  fine 
brown,  turn  the  other  ;  the  fat  must  be  boiling  hot 
when  the  fish  is  put  in,  and  then  fried  gently,  that 
it  may  not  be  too  dark  colored. 

The  soft  roe  is  much  liked  by  some;  fry  it  in  the 
same  manner,  as  also  the  eggs ;  these  last  must  be 
well  done. 

Broiled  Shad. — Cut  the  fish  the  same  as  for 
frying,  or  merely  split  it  in  two  ;  lay  it  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  bright  steady  fire  of  coals  ;  let  it  broil  gently  ; 
put  the  inside  to  the  fire  first,  that  it  may  be  done 
through;  have  ready  a  steak  dish  with  nearlv  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  pepper  each,  worked  into  it:  when 
both  sides  of  the  fish  are  done,  lay  it  on  the  dish, 
torn  it  several  times  in  the  butter,  cover  it  with  a 
tin  cover,  and  set  the  dish  where  it  will  keep  hot, 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Baked  Shad. — Scale  the  shad  clean,  cut  off  the 
head,  and  split  the  fish  half  Avay  down  the 
back;  scrape  the*inside  perfectly  clean;  make  a 
stuffinor  thus :  cut  two  slices  of  a  baker's  loaf 
of  wheat  bread,  spread  each  thickly  with  but- 
ter ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
pounded  sage  if  liked  ;  moisten  it  with  hot  water  ; 
fill  the  bellv  with  this;  wind  a  cord  around  it  to 
keep  in  the  stuffing;  dredo:e  the  outside  well  with 
flour;  stick  bits  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut 
all  over  the  outside  ;  mix  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt 
and  pepper  together,  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  whole 


FRIED    BLACK    FISH.  39 

surface ;  then  lay  the  fish  on  a  trivet  or  muffin  rings  ^ 
in  a  dripping  pan;  put  in  a  pint  of  water  to  baste 
with,  and  keep  the  gravy  from  burning ;  if  this  all 
wastes  before  the  fish  is  done,  add  more  hot  water; 
bake  for  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven  ;  baste  frequently. 
When  done  take  the  fish  on  a  steak  dish ;  if  there 
is  not  enough  grav^^  in  the  pan,  (there  should  be  at 
least  half  a  pint,)  add  more  hot  water;  dredge  in 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  then  put  to  it  a  bit 
of  butter,  and,  if  liked,  a  lemon  sliced  thin,  and 
the  seeds  taken  out.  Stir  it  smooth  with  a  spoon, 
and  pour  it  through  a  gravy  strainer  into  a  gravy 
boat;  lay  the  slices  of  lemon  over  the  fish,  and 
serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Sea  Bass. — These  fish  may  be  fried  or  boiled. 
If  fried,  garnish  with  fried  parsley.  The  largest 
of  them  for  frying,  weighing  nearly  a  pound  each, 
must  be  scored  as  directed  in  introduction  to  this 
chapter. 

For  boiling,  serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes,  and 
drawn  butter,  or  parsley,  or  lemon  sauce. 

Black  Fish. — These  fish  may  be  boiled,  fried, 
stewed,  or  broiled. 

To  Fry  Black  Fish. — Scale  the  fish,  and  scrape 
the  inside  clean  to  the  back  bone  ;  wash  it  in  water, 
with  a  little  vinegar  ;  wipe  it  dry  with  a  clean 
towel ;  then  dip  it  in  wheat  flour,  or  rolled  crack- 
ers. Have  in  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan  plenty 
of  lard  salted,  (a  large  tablespoon  of  salt  to  a  pound 
of  lard) ;  let  it  become  boihng  hot ;  then  lay  in  the 
fish,  and  fry  it  gently,  untirone  side  is  a  fine  brown  ; 
then  turn  it  carefully.  When  both  sides  are  done, 
take  it  up  and  serve. 

Fried  fish  may  be  garnished  or  ornamented  with 


40  8TEWED  BLACK  FISH. 

Sprigs  of  green  or  fried  parsley,  or  thin  slices  of 
lemon,  fried. 

Stewed  Black  Fish. — Put  a  fish  weighing 
about  five  pounds  on  a  fish-drainer;  after  having 
properly  cleansed  it,  put  it  into  the  fish-kettle  with 
hot  water  to  cover  it ;  add  to  it  a  few  blades  of 
mace,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  w^ineglass 
of  port  wine  ;  let  it  simmer  or  boil  gently  for 
half  an  hour ;  then  skim  it  clear ;  work  into  a 
smooth  mass  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter, 
and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour ;  take 
from  the  fish  part  of  the  water  in  which  it  was 
boiled,  leaving  it  scarcely  covered  ;  then  add  the 
flour  and  butter,  w^ith  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  dip 
a  buhch  of  parsley  into  boiling  water,  cut  it  small, 
and  add  it  to  the  stew  ;  cover  it  close  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  let  it  simmer  gently;  then  take  the 
fish  up  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  the  grav3''or  sauce 
over.  A  sliced  lemon  without  the  pits  may  be  add- 
ed with  the  parsley  by  those  who  like  it.  Servo 
with  plain  boiled  or  niashed  potatoes. 

Black-fish  dressed  in  this  manner  is  very  deli- 
cious. 

To  stew  smaller  fish,  lay  them  in  a  dripping-pan 
with  enough  hot  water  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
and  half  a  wincG^lass  of  vinecrar  or  Madeira  wine  ; 
set  it  in  an  oven,  or  over  a  fire  ;  cover  the  pan,  and 
let  them  boil  gently  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  add, 
for  four  or  five  pounds  of  fish,  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  with  a  tnblespoonful  of  flour  worked  into 
it.  or  rolled  crackers,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  scalded 
andcutsmal],andateasp6onfulofpure  fine  pepper; 
let  them  simmer  for  ten  minutes  after  the  seasoning 
is  added,  and  they  are  done.  Serv^e  with  the  sauce 
over,  and  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes. 


PERCH HALIBUT SALMON.  41 

To  Boil  Black  Fish. — See  directions  for  fresh 
codfish.  Serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  parsley  sauce. 

Perch. — Clean  these  fish  well,  wash,  and  wipe 
them  dry,  then  fry  them  as  directed.  See  p.  33-34. 

Striped  ^  Bass. — These  fish  are  best  fried  or 
boiled.     See  directions  for  boihng  or  frying  fish. 

Halibut. — This  fish  is  fine,  whether  cut  in 
steaks,  and  broiled,  or  fried  ;  or  the  thick  part 
boiled.  Fry  or  broil  as  directed  for  cod  fish.  Steaks 
or  fillets  cut  from  the  tail  part  are  very  fine,  and 
may  be  fried  or  broiled  more  nicely  than  any  other. 

To  Boil  Halibut. — Take  a  piece  weighing  four 
or  five  pounds,  scrape  the  skin  clean,  dredge  flour 
over  it,  and  boil  according  to  its  weight, — ten  min- 
utes to  a  pound.  Serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes, 
and  drawn  butter,  or  egg,  or  parsley  sauce.  Cold 
boiled  halibut  may  be  served  the  same  as  codfish  ; 
any  of  the  sauce  which  ma}^  remain  may  be  put 
with  the  cold  fish. 

Salmon. — When  salmon  is  fresh  and  good,  the 
gills  and  flesh  are  of  a  bright  red,  the  scales  clear, 
and  the  fish  stiff.  When  first  caught  there  is  a 
whiteness  between  the  flakes,  which,  by  keeping, 
melts  down,  and  the  fish  becomes  richer. 

Salmon  requires  to  be  well  boiled.  When  under- 
done it  is  unwholesome. 

Boiled  Salmon.— Run  a  long  needle  wdth  a 
packthread  through  the  tail,  centre,  and  head  of  a 
fish,  to  bring  it  in  the  form  of  a  letter  S.  Put  it  in 
a  fish-kettle,  with  hot  water  to  cover  it,  and  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt  (cut  three  or  four  slanting  gashr 


42  SALMON. 

es  in  each  side  of  the  fish  before  making  it  into  the 
form,  otherwise  the  skin  will  break  and  disfigure 
it) ;  allow  ten  minutes  gentle  boiling  for  each  pound 
of  fish.  Or  a  piece  of  a  large  fish  may  be  boiled.- 
Serve  with  lobster,  or  anchovy,  or  drawn  butter 
Bauce,  and  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes. 

Broiled  Salmon. — Cut  some  slices  about  an 
inch  thick,  and  broil  them  over  a  gentle,  bright  fire 
of  coals,  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  When  both 
sides  are  done,  take  them  on  to  a  hot  dish  ;  butter 
each  slice  well  with  sweet  butter;  strew  over  each 
a  very  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Baked  Salmon. — Clean  the  fish,  rinse  it,  and 
wipe  it  dry  ;  rub  it  well  outside  and  in,  with  a  mix- 
ture  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  it  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  slices  of  bread,  buttered  freely,  and  moist- 
ened with  hot  milk  or  water  (add  sage  or  thyme  to 
the  seasoning  if  liked)  ;  tie  a  thread  around  the 
fish,  so  as  to  keep  the  stuffing  in  (take  off'  the 
thread  before  serving);  lay  muffin  rings, or  a  trivet 
in  a  dripping-pan,  lay  bits  of  butter  over  the  fish, 
dredge  Hour  oveH  and  put  it  on  the  rings  ;  put  a 
pint  of  hot  water  in  the  pan,  to  baste  with  ;  bake 
one  hour  if  a  large  fish,  in  a  quick  oven  ;  baste  fre- 
quently. When  the  fish  is  taken  up,  having  cut  a 
lemon  in  very  thin  slices,  put  them  in  the  pan,  and 
let  them  fry  a  little ;  then  dredge  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  wheat  flour;  add  a  small  bit  of  butter;  stir  it 
about,  and  let  it  brown  without  burning,  for  a  little 
w^hile  ;  then  add  half  a  teacup  or  more  of  boiUng 
water,  stir  it  smooth,  take  the  slices  of  lemon  into 
the  gravy-boat,  and  strain  the  gravy  over.  Serve 
with  boiled  potatoes.  The  lemon  may  be  omitted 
if  preferred,  althou^fh  generallv  it  will  be  liked. 


SALMON.  43 

Salmon  TRorx. — Dressed  the  same  as  salmon. 

Spiced  Salmon  (Pickled). — Boil  a  salmon,  and 
after  wiping  it  dry,  set  it  to  cool ;  take  of  the  water 
in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  good  vinegar  each 
equal  parts,  enough  to  cover  it ;  add  to  it  one  dozen 
cloves,  as  many  small  blades  of  mace,  or  sliced  nut- 
meg, one  teaspoonful  of  whole  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  alspice  ;  make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it  clear, 
add  a  small  bit  of  butter,  (the  size  of  a  small  egg,) 
and  pour  it  over  the  fish  ;  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 
When  cold,  it  is  fit  for  use,  and  will  keep  for  a  long 
time,  covered  close,  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  instead 
of  pickled  oysters  for  supper. 

A  fresh  cod  is  very  nice,  done  in  the  same  man- 
ner ;  as  is  also  a  striped  sea  bass. 

Dried  or  Smoked  Salmon. — Cut  the  fish  down 
the  back,  take  out  the  entrails,  and  roe,  scale  it,  and 
rub  the  outside  and  in  with  common  salt,  and  hang 
it  to  drain  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Pound  three  ounces  of  salt-petre,  two  ounces  of 
coarse  salt,  and  two  of  coarse  brown  sugar  :  mix 
these  well  together,  and  rub  the  s^mon  over  every 
part  with  it ;  then  lay  it  on  a  large  dish  for  two 
days  ;  then  rub  it  over  with  common  salt,  and  in 
twenty-four  hours  it  will  be  fit  to  dry.  Wipe  it 
'Well,  stretch  it  open  with  two  sticks,  and  hang  it 
in  a  chimney,  with  a  smothered  wood-fire,  or  in  a 
smoke-house,  or  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Shad  done  in  this  manner  are  verv  fine. 

<j 

Smoked  or  Dried  Salmon,  Broiled. — Rinse 
some  smoked  salmon  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  dry,  and 
lay  it  on  a  clean  gridiron,  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals. 
Turn  it,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through, 


44  EELS. 

take  it  on  a  dish,  butter  it  well  with  sweet  butter, 
add  yjejjper  to  taste,  and  serve  hot. 

This  is  a  fine  relish  for  breakfast  or  supper. 
Broil  smoked  shad  in  the  same  manner.  The  in- 
side of  any  fish  must  be  put  to  the  fire  first. 

A  Dish  of  Salt  Salmon. — Salmon  is  often  put 
down  in  brine.  It  is  to  be  soaked  and  boiled,  as 
directed  for  salt  codfish,  or  it  may  be  boiled  for 
breakfast.  Or  pull  off'  the  skin,  and  pick  in  flakes 
the  thick  side  of  a  salmon  ;  pour  scalding  hot  water 
over  it,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  pour  it 
off*;  add  to  it  enough  milk  or  hot  water  to  moisten  it ; 
put  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes; then  add  a  tablespoonfid  of  butter,  shake 
over  a  little  wheat  flour  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  it 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  it  is  done.  A  fine  relish 
for  breakfast  or  supper. 

Eels. — Eels  to  be  good,  must  be  as  fresh  <;aughl 
as  possible  ;  skin  them,  cut  off'  the  heads,  cut  them 
open  and  scrape  them  clean  to  the  back  bone. 

For  frying  or  broiling,  the  middle  sized  fat  ones 
are  best ;  those  caught  in  fresh  water  have  a  muddy 
taste,  and  should  be  put  in  salted  water  for  a  short 
time  before  cooking.  Eels  may  be  boiled  and 
served  with  drawn  butter  or  parsley  sauce,  and 
boiled  potatoes. 

Baked  Eels. — After  skinning  and  cleanmg  eels, 
take  a  shallow  pan,  cut  them  in  lengths  the  depth 
of  the  pan,  and  stand  them  upright  into  it.  The 
pan  must  be  filled;  put  in  water  nearly  an  inch 
deep  ;  strew  salt  arid  pepper  over ;  put  bits  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  ahickorv  nut  over  the  whole  surface: 
dredge    flour  over    until  they  look  white,   also  a 


DRIED    MACKEREL.  45 

bunch  of  parsley  cut  small,  and  an  onion  chopped 
if  liked ;  set  them  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for 
nearly  an  hour;  when  done,  take  them  from  the  pan, 
add  a  wine-glass  of  vinegar,  or  a  lemon  sliced  thin  ; 
to  the  gravy  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  bit  of 
butter;  stir  it  smooth  ;  give  it  one  boil,  then  turn  it 
over  the  fish ;  if  lemon  is  used,  a  little  water  may* 
be  necessary. 

Fricaseed  Eels. — After  skinning,  cleaning,  and 
cutting  five  or  six  eels  in  pieces  of  two  inches  in 
length,  boil  them  in  water  nearly  to  cover  them, 
until  tender ;  then  add  a  good  sized  bit  of  butter, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker 
worked  into  it,  and  a  little  scalded  and  chopped 
parsley  ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  vinegar  if  liked  ;  let  them  simmer  for  ten 
minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Eels. — After  cleaning  the  eels  well,  cut 
them  in  pieces  two  inches  long ;  wash  them  and 
wipe  them  dry;  roll  them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled 
cracker,  and  fry  as  directed  for  other  fish,  in  hot 
lard  or  beef  dripping,  salted.  They  should  be 
browned  all  over  and  thoroughly  done. 

Eels  may  be  preparedin  the  same  manner  and 
broiled. 

Fresh  Mackerel. — These  fish  to  be  good  must 
be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are  caught. 

They  may  be  broiled,  fried,  or  baked  the  same 
as  shad — also  salted. 

Dried  MACKEREL.-Take  fresh  caught  mackerel, 
scale  them  and  cut  them  down  the  back  to  the  tail, 
leave  the  heads  on ;  then  hang  them  by  the  tail  in 
a  cool  place  to  drain;  strew  some  salt  on  the  hot- 


46  TROUT. 

torn  of  a  pan  ;  sprinkle  the  fish  plentifully  with  it^ 
and  lay  them  two  by  two,  the  insides  together  in 
the  pan ;  let  them  lie  twelve  hours,  then  rinse  ofi 
the  salt,  and  hang  them  to  drain  for  half  an  hour, 
after  which  pepper  the  insides  a  little,  and  lay  them 
on  stones,  aslant  toward  the  sun,  to  dry  ;  take  care 
•never  to  put  them  out  when  the  sun  is  not  hot  on 
them,  nor  until  the  stones  are  heated  and  dry  ;  lay 
the  insides  to  the  sun — they  will  be  perfectly  cured 
in  one  week;  stretch  them  open  with  two  sticks. 
Or  instead  of  drying,  after  having  prepared  them 
In  this  manner,  smoke  them. 

Salt  Mackerel. — Split  fresh  caught  mackerel 
down  the  back,  scrape  the  insides  clean,  spread 
them  open  on  a  board,  and  strew  them  plentifully 
with  salt ;  then  strew  salt  over  the  bottom  of  a  tub; 
lay  the  fish  two  by  two,  the  insides  together,  and  lay 
them  in  the  tub;  strew  salt  between  each  layer; 
half  coarse  and  half  fine  salt;  then  cover  them 
close — put  plent}^  of  salt  above  the  last  layer  of  fish. 

To  DRESS  Salt  Mackerel. — Take  mackerel 
from  the  salt,  and  lay  them  inside  downwards  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water  for  two  or  three  clays  change 
the  water  once  or  twice,  and  scrape  the  fish  clean 
without  breaking  it.  When  fresh  enough,  wipe  one 
dry  and  hang  it  in  a  cool  place  ;  then  fry  or  broil, 
or  lay  one  in  a  shallow  pan,  the  inside  of  the  fish 
down  ;  cover  it  with  hot  water,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire,  or  in  an  oven  for  twelve  or  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  turn  the  fish  ;  put  bits 
of  butter  in  the  pan,  and  over  the  fish ;  sprinkle  with 
pepper,  and  let  it  fr}^  for  five  minutes,  then  dish  it. 

Trout, — These  ma}^  be  stewed,  fried,  broiled  or 
baked. 


CHOWDER.  47 

Pike  or  Pickrel. — These  may  be  stewed, 
fried,  or  broiled. 

There  are  many  more  fine  fish  not  mentioned 
herein,  but  as  the  process  of  stewing,  boihng,  broil- 
ing, and  frying  is  very  nearly  the  same  for  all  sorts 
of  fish,  it  does  not  seem  necessary  to  mention  more. 

Herrings. — These  are  eaten  in  three  varieties — 
fresh,  salted,  and  smoked  or  red  herrings. 

Salted  herrings  are  to  be  soaked  in  clear  water 
before  boiling,  the  same  as  mackerel. 

Red  herring  are  to  be  skinned,  split  in  two,  and 
the  insides  and  backbone  taken  out ;  or  they  may 
first  be  broiled,  then  skinned. 

To  cook  fresh  herrings,  scale  and  prepare  them 
the  same  as  any  other  fish. 

To  Boil  Fresh  Herring. — Dry  them  well; 
rub  them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar,  and 
skewer  their  tails  in  their  mouths  ;  lay  them  on  a 
fish  plate  and  boil  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes  in 
water  slightly  salted.  Serve  with  plain  boiled  po- 
tatoes and  drawn  butter. 

Chowder. — Slice  some  fat  salt  pork  very  thin ; 
strew  it  over  with  onions  chopped  small,  and  some 
fine  pepper;  then  cut  a  haddock,  fresh  cod,  or  any 
other  firm  fish,  in  thin  steaks;  take  out  the  bones; 
lay  some  of  the  sliced  pork  at  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  with  some  of  the  seasoning;  then  put  alayer 
of  fish,  then  put  over  some  soaked  crackers  or  bis- 
cuit ;  then  another  layer  of  the  seasoned  pork,  after 
which  fish  and  crackers,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter, 
and  so  on  alternately  pork,  fish  and  crackers,  until 
the  kettle  is  two-thirds  full,  then  put  in  about  a  pint 
of  water  and  cover  the  pot  with  a  thick  iron  cover 
with  a  rim  ;  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire;  put  coals  and 
ashes  on  the  cover,  and  bake  two  or  three  hours  or 
more,  if  the  pot  is  large.  When  done,  turn  it  out 
on  a  dish  and  serve  with  pickles.  It  may  be  baked 
in  an  oven. 


SHELL  FISH. 

To  Choose  Lobsters. — These  are  chosen  more 
by  weight  than  size,  the  heaviest  are  best;  a  good 
small  sized  one  will  not  unfrequently  be  found  to 
weigh  as  heavily  as  one  much  larger.  If  fresh,  a 
lobster  will  be  lively  and  the  claws  have  a  strong 
motion  when  the  eyes  are  pressed  with  the  finger. 

The  male  is  best  for  boiling  ;  the  flesh  is  firmer, 
and  the  shell  a  brighter  red  ;  it  may  readily  be  dis- 
tinguished from  the  female;  the  tail  is  narrower, 
and  the  two  uppermost  fins  within  the  tail  are  stiff 
and  hard.  Those  of  the  hen  lobster  are  not  so,  and 
the  tail  is  broader. 

Hen  lobsters  are  preferred  for  sauce  or  salad,  on 
account  of  their  coral.  The  head  and  small  claws 
are  never  used. 

To  Boil  Lobster. — Put  into  a  large  kettle 
water  enough  to  cover  the  lobster,  and  salt,  a  des- 
sert spoonful  to  a  quart  of  water  ;  when  it  boils  fast, 
put  in  the  lobster,  head  first,  which  kills  it  instant- 
ly; keep  it  boiling  briskly  for  half  an  hour,  then 
take  it  from  the  water  with  the  tongs,  and  lay  it  to 
drain  ;  wipe  off  all  the  scum  from  it,  and  rub  it  over 
with  a  bit  of  butter  tied  in  a  cloth,  or  some  sweet 
oil;  break  off  the  large  claws,  and  crack  each  shell 
without  shattering,  but  so  that  they  may  come  eas- 
ily to  pieces  ;  lay  a  napkin  on  a  large  steak  dish  ; 
with  a  sharp  knife  split  the  body  fiom  head  to  tail, 
and  lay  it  open  on  the  napkin  ;  put  a  large  claw  at 
either  end,  and  serve  with  melted  butter  sauce. 

Or  else  take  out  all  the  meat  from  the  shells,  and 
lay  it  neatly  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  melted  but- 
ter, or  a  sauce  m.ade  thus — 

Sour  Sauce  for  Boiled  Lobster. — Put  of 
water  and  vinegar  each  a  gill  into  a  stew-pan,  and 
set  it  over  the  fire ;  when  it  is  boiling  hot  take  it 
off,  put  to  it  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter  and 


BUTTERED    LOBSTER,  49 

a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and,  if  liked,  ibe 
green  inside  of  the  lobster  ;  add  a  saltspoonful  oi 
ground  pepper;  stir  it  until  thoroughly  blended, 
and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat  ;  serve  lettuce  witii  lob- 
ster. 

Broiled  Lobster. — After  having  boiled  the  lob- 
ster, split  it  from  head  to  tail;  take  out  what  is 
called  the  lady  ;  lay  it  open  ;  put  bits  of  butterover 
the  meat;  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over  it,  and  set 
the  shells  on  a  gridiron  over  bright  coals,  until  nice- 
ly heated  through — fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  does 
them.     Serve  in  the   shells. 

Buttered  Lobster. — ^Boil  a  lobster,  then  take 
the  meat  from  the  shell,  and  mince  or  chop  it  small; 
put  the  coral  and  green  inside  if  liked,  (leave  out 
what  is  called  the  lady,)  to  a  wine-glass  of  vinegai 
or  hot  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
made  mustard,  if  liked;  and  put  it  with  the  lob- 
ster in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  stir  it  until  it 
is  thoroughl}^  heated  throughout.  Serve  hot — serve 
with  it  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl ;  garnish  with  hard 
boiled  egg;  serve  rolls  wdth  it. — For  supper  or  a 
second  course  dinner  dish. 

Lobster  Salad. — Break  apart  one  or  two  heads 
of  white  heart  lettuce,  lay  the  leaves  in  cold  water, 
rinse  them  well,  then  shake  the  water  from  each 
leaf,  and  lay  them,  the  largest  first,  in  a  salad  bowl, 
the  stalk  inwards.  Lay  the  dehcate  small  leaves 
around  the  edge;  or  cut  it  all  small  before  putting 
it  in  the  bowd. 

Having  boiled  a  hen  lobster,  take  the  meat  from 
the  shell  aud  cut  it  small;  rub  the  coral  to  a  smooth 
paste,  with  the  green  inside  if  liked,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  oil  or  melted  butter;  add  to  it  a:'  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  saltspoonful  ot 
black  pepper;  add  a  gill  of  sharp  vinegar;  stir  it 
^  C 


50  SOFT    SHELL    CLAMS. 

smooth,  then  mix  it  with  the  minced  lobster  and  sa- 
lad, and  serve  with  cold  butter  and  crackers  or 
rolls.  The  lobster  and  dressing  must  not  be  put 
with  the  lettuce  until  ready  to  serve. 

To  Choose  Crabs. — If  fresh,  the  joints  of  the 
claws  will  be  stiff,  and  the  inside  have  an  agreeable 
smell ;  the  heaviest  for  their  size  are  best, — light  ones 
are  watery.   Crabs  are  stale  when  the  eyes  look  d  uU. 

To  Boil  Crabs. — Have  a  pot  of  boihng  water 
in  which  is  salt,  (a  tablespoonful  to  the  quart)  throw 
the  crabs  in,  and  keep  them  boiling  briskly  for 
twelve  minutes,  if  large  ;  then  take  them  out,  wipe 
the  shell  clean,  and  rub  them  over  with  a  bit  of 
butter;  break  off  the  small  claws;  spread  a  nap- 
kin on  a  large  dish,  and  lay  the  crabs  on  it  in  reg- 
ular rows,  beginning  at  the  outside.  Serve  with 
cold  butter  and  rolls. 

To  Boil  Scollops. — Wash  them  clean,  then 
put  them  in  a  pot,  the  edges  downwards.  When 
all  are  in,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  hot  fire  ;  when  the  shells  are 
wide  open  and  the  inside  loosens,  they  are  done; 
then  take  them  out  and  trim  them  clean  ;  add  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  a  good  sized  bit  of  butter,  and 
some  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled; 
dredge  over  a  little  flour,  and  put  the  whole  into  a 
stew-pan,  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Have  some 
thin  slices  of  bread  nicely  toasted,  cut  it  small,  put 
it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  scollops  over. 

Soft  Shelled  Clams. — These  are  very  fine  if 
pro])erly  prepared.  They  are  good  only  during  cold 
weather  and  must  be  perfectly  fresh. 

Soft  shelled  clams  may  be  boiled  from  the  shells, 
and  served  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over. 

To  Boil  Soft  Shell  Clams. — Wash  the  shells 
clean,  and  put  the  clams,  the  edges  downwards,  in 
a  ketde ;  then  pour  about  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
over  them ;  cover  the  ])ot  and  set  it  over  a  brisic 


HARD    SHELL    CLAMS.  61 

fire  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ;  pouring  boiling 
water  on  them  causes  the  shells  to  open  quickl}/ 
and  let  out  the  sand  which  may  be  in  them. 

Take  them  up  when  done ;  take  off  the  black 
skin  which  covers  the  hard  part,  trim  them  clean, 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  ;  put  to  them  some  ot 
the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled ;  put  to  it  a 
good  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; 
make  them  hot;  serve  with  cold  butter  and  rolls. 

Stewed  Soft  Shell  Clams. — Get  fifty  clams 
taken  from  their  shells,  and  freed  from  the  black 
skin;  wash  them  well  in  clear  water  and  put  them 
in  a  stew-pan  with  very  little  water ;  cover  and  set 
it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add  to 
them  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  or  lar- 
ger; dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste ;  stir  it  in  them  ;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  for  ten  minutes,  then  serve  hot.  Many  persons 
like  the  addition  of  a  wine-o:lass  of  vine2:ar. 


■>\ 


^x  To  Fry  Soft  Clams.-*— Get  them  taken  from  the 
shell,  as  they  are  very  troublesome  to  clean.  Wash 
them  in  plenty  of  water,  and  lay  them  on  a 
thickly  folded  napkin  to  dry  out  the  water;  then 
roll  a  few  at  a  time  in  wheat  flour,  until  they 
will  take  up  no  more.  Have  a  thick-bottomed 
frying  pan  one  third  full  of  boiling  hot  lard,  and 
salted ;  (in  proportion,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  a 
pound  of  lard,)  lay  the  clams  in  with  a  fork,  one  at 
a  time ;  lay  them  close  together  and  fry  gently, 
until  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  then  turn  care- 
fully and  brown  the  other ;  then  take  them  off'  on 
a  hot  dish.  When  fried  properly,  these  clams  are 
very  excellent. 

Hard   Shell  Clams.— Hard  shell  clams  may 


52  FRIED  HARD  SHELL  CLAMS. 

be  prepared  for  table  in  a  variety  of  way?.  The 
sand  clam?,  either  large  or  small,  are  preferable  to 
any  other,  being  whiter  and  more  tender.  Those 
called  Quahogs  are  least  delicate  eating  of  all. 

To  Boil  Hard  Shell  Clams. — Wash  the 
shells  until  they  are  perfectly  clean,  then  put  there 
into  a  kettle,  w^ith  the  edges  downwards ;  add  a 
pint  of  water,  cover  the  pot  and  set  it  over  a  brLsk 
fire  ;  when  the  shells  open  wide  they  are  done. 
Half  an  hour  is  generally  enough  for  them  ;  if  a 
strong  taste  to  the  juice  is  not  liked,  put  more  than 
a  pint  of  water  to  them.  When  done,  take  the 
clams  from  the  shells  into  a  deep  dish  ;  put  to  them 
some  of  the  juice,  a  good  bit  of  butter,  and  some 
pepper;  or  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter 
them  and  cut  them  small,  and  put  them  in  the  dish 
before  putting  in  the  clams  and  juice. 

Stewed  Clams. — Take  fifty  large  sand  clams 
from  their  shells,  and  put  to  them  their  own  liquor 
and  water  in  equal  parts,  nearly  to  cover  them  ;  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire  for  half  an 
hour  ;  take  off  any  scum  as  it  rises,  then  add  to 
them  a  teacup  of  butter,  in  which  is  worked  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste; 
cover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  them  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  then  serve.  Pour  it  over  toast  if 
preferred. 

Substituting  milk  for  water  makes  them  more 
deli  sate  and  white. 

Any  other  than  sand  clams,  require  one  hour 
to  stew;  that  is,  three  quarters  of  an  hour  before 
putting  in  the  seasoning. 

Fried  Hard  Shell  Clams. — Get  the  large 
sand  clams;  wash  them   in  their  ovrn  liquor;  dip 


CLAM    FRITTERS PIE.  63 

them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers  as  may  be 
preferred,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping,  with- 
out salt ;  or  dip  each  one  in  batter  made  as  for 
clam  fritters. 

Clam  Fritters. — Take  fifty  small  or  twenty- 
five  large  sand  clams  from  their  shells;  if  large, 
cut  each  in  two,  lay  them  on  a  thickly  folded  nap- 
kin; put  a  pint  bowl  of  wheat  flour  into  a  basin, 
add  to  it  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  and  nearly  as  much  of  their  own  liquor;  beat 
the  batter  until  it  is  smooth  and  perfectly  free  from 
lumps  ;  then  stir  in  the  clams.  Put  plenty  of  lard 
or  beef  fat  into  a  thick-bottomed  frying  pan,  let  it 
become  boiling  hot;  put  in  the  batter  by  the  spoon- 
ful; let  them  fry  gently;  when  one  side  is  a  deli* 
cate  brown,  turn  the  other. 

Omlet  of  Hard  Shell  Clams. — Make  a  bat- 
ter of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  to  a  pint  of  milk  and  a 
gill  of  the  liquor  from  the  clams,  with  a  pint  bowl  of 
wheat  flour ;  beat  it  until  it  is  smooth  and  perfect- 
ly free  from  lumps  ;  then  stir  into  it  fifty  small  sand 
clams,  or  tw^enty-five  large  ones,  chopped  small; 
have  a  small  frying-pan,  put  into  it  a  teacup  of  lard 
or  beef  fat;  make  it  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  batter 
half  an  inch  deep,  and  set  the  pan  over  a  gentle 
heat  until  one  side  is  a  fine  brown;  pass  a  knife 
blade  around  the  edges  and  under  it  occasionally 
to  loosen  it  from  the  pan  ;  then  turn  the  other  side. 
When  both  are  done  turn  it  into  a  dish.  This 
quantity  of  batter  will  make  several  omlets. 

Clam  Pie. — Make  a  paste  as  follows:  Rub  half 
a  pound  of  sweet  lard  into  a  pound  of  wheat  flour, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  until  it  is  all  incorpora- 
ted, then  add  enough  cold  water  to  wet  it  into  a 


54  CLAM    POT    PIE. 

paste  or  dough,  and  work  it  smooth.  Dip  your 
har.ds  in  flour  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  them  ;  flour 
a  paste-board  and  cut  the  crust  to  nearly  half  an 
inch  thickness.  Take  a  deep  tin  basin,  and  having 
rubbed  the  inside  over  with  butter,  line  the  bottom 
and  sides  with  the  paste ;  (first  line  the  bottom,  then 
the  sides,  pressing  it  together  at  the  bottom,)  put 
into  it  twenty-five  large  or  fifty  small  clams,  nicely 
taken  from  their  shells;  dredge  in  wheat  flour  until 
the  whole  looks  white ;  add  bits  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut  over  the  whole  surface  ;  sprinkle 
over  neaHy  a  teaspoonfulof  fine  pepper,  then  nearly 
fill  the  basin  with  clam  juice  and  water  in  equal 
parts  ;  lay  skewers  across  the  basin  to  support  the 
top  crust ;  roll  out  the  paste,  cut  several  small  slits 
each  side  of  the  centre,  and  lay  it  carefully  over 
the  pie  ;  trim  it  off  at  the  edges  neatly  with  a  knife, 
dip  your  fingers  in  flour,  and  pinch  the  side  and 
upper  crust  together.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  quick 
oven. 

The  top  crust  may  be  made  of  puflT  paste.  In- 
stead of  lard  or  beef  dripping,  the  same  quantity 
of  finely  chopped  beef  suet  may  be  used. 

Clam  Pot  Pie. — Make  a  crust  as  for  clam  pie, 
or  thus:  Put  two  pounds  of  wheat  flour  into  a 
bowl;  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre  of  it;  put  into 
it  a  teaspoonfal  of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  butter-milk 
or  sour  milk ;  measure  a  small  teaspoonful  of  dry 
saleratus  with  it,  a  little  hot  water,  when  all  is  dis- 
solved and  a  little  cooled,  put  it  to  the  sour  milk 
or  buttermilk,  then  proceed  to  make  it  into  a  soft  ^ 
dough  with  as  much  cold  water  as  may  be  neces- 
sary; dip  your  hands  in  dry  flour  to  prevent  the 
dough  sticking  to  them.  Rub  over  the  sides  of  an 
iron  dinner  pot  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  line  the 
sides  only ;  with  the  paste  made  in  the  hands  not 


CLAM    CHOWDER.  55 

more  tlian  half  an  inch  thick,  press  it  closely  against 
the  pot,  then  put  into  the  bottom  fitt}^  large  clams, 
(juartcu-  of  a  |)Oimd  of  sweet  butter  cut  small,  a 
small  leaspoonful  of  ground  pepper  strewed  over, 
and  half  a  small  nutmeg,  grated,  if  liked;  dredge 
wheat  flour  over  until  it  looks  white  ;  put  of  clam 
juice  and  water  enough  to  nearly  reach  the  lop  of 
the  paste  ;  lay  skewers  across ;  roll  out  a  crust  for 
the  top,  and  whatever  paste  remains,  cut  it  in  small 
squares,  and  drop  it  in  before  putting  on  the  crust ; 
cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  cover  the  pot  close  and  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire  for  one  hour ;  then  take  it  up  and 
serve  as  soon  as  done.  The  crust  becomes  heavy 
by  standing. 

This  is  a  dish  much  liked  by  those  who  are  fond 
of  clams.  The  paste  directed  in  this^receipt  is  de- 
licate and  far  more  healthful  than  any  other. 

Pickled  Clams. — Boil  them  from  the  shells, 
then  take  them  with  a  skimmer  into  a  basin  or  stone 
pot,  take  of  their  own  liquor  half  enough  to  cover 
cover  them,  and  the  same  quantity  of  strong  vine- 
gar; whole  pepper,  alspice  and  mace  each  a  tea- 
spoonful  ;  make  this  hot  and  pour  it  over  the  clams. 
After  twenty-four  hours  they  are  fit  for  eating,  and 
v\all  keep  good  for  a  long  time. 

Sea  Clams. — These  are  cooked  the  same  as 
soft  shell  clams. 

Clam  Chowder. — Butter  a  deep  tin  basin,  strew 
it  thickly  w^ith  grated  bread  crumbs,  or  soaked 
cracker.;  sprinkle  some  pepper  over  and  bits  ot 
butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  and,  if  liked,  some 
finely  chopped  parsley ;  then  put  a  double  layer  of 
clams,  season  with  pepper,  put  bits  of  butter  over, 
theu  another  layer  of  scaked  cracker;  after  that 


66  OYSTER    FRITTERS. 

clams  and  bits'of  butter ;  sprinkle  pepper  over  ;  add 
a  cup  of  milk  or  water,  and  lastly  a  layer  of 
soaked  crackers.  Turn  a  plate  over  the  basin,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ; 
use  half  a  pound  of  soda  biscuit,  and  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  with  fifty  clams. 

Scolloped  Clams. — Put  six  rolled  crackers  to 
twenty-five  small  clams,  and  a  piece  of' butter  the 
size  of  a  large  egg;  add  a  small  teacup  of  water  ; 
cut  the  butter  small,  and  mix  all  together  with  a 
saltspoonful  of  ground  pepper  ;  butter  a  scolloped 
tin  plate,  put  the  mixture  in,  and  bake  for  one 
hour  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  turn  it  out  on  a 
dish. 

Oysters. — Oysters  must  be  fresh  and  fat  to  be 
good.      They  are  in  season  from  September  to  May- 

The  small  ones,  such  as  are  sold  by  the  quart, 
are  good  for  pies,  fritters,  or  stews;  the  largfist  of 
this  sort  are  nice  for  frying  or  j)ickling  for  family 
use. 

The  largest  oysters  are  bought  for  broiling,  fry- 
ing, stewing,  or  pickhng.  These  have  a  finer  ap- 
pearance, but  are  no  better  to  the  taste. 

To  Feed  Oysters. — Put  oysters  in  water  and 
wash  them  with  a  broom  un^il  they  are  perfectly 
clean;  then  lay  them,  the  largest  shell  downwards, 
in  a  tub;  sprinkle  well  with  Hour  or  oat-meal ;  wet 
them  with  w^ater  :  repeat  this  operation  daily,  and 
they  will  fatten. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Take  a  quart  of  oysters 
from  their  own  liquor,  strain  it  and  add  to  it  half  a 
pint  of  milk  and  two  well  beaten  eggs  ;  stir  in  by 
deizrees  Hour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  but  rather 


FRIED    OYSTERS.  67 

thin  batter  ;  when  perfectly  free  from  lumps  put  the 
oysters  to  it,  have  some  lard  or  beef  dripping  made 
hot  in  a  frying  pan,  salt  it  a  little,  and  when  it  is 
boiling  hot  put  in  the  batter  with  a  large  spoon,  hav- 
ing one  or  more  oysters  in  ench  ;  hold  it  over  a 
gentle  lire  until  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown — turn 
each  fritter  separately.  When  both  sides  are  done, 
take  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  for  breakfast  or 
supper. 

Fried  Oysters. — Take  large  oysters  from  their 
own  liquor  onto  a  thickly  folded  napkin  to  dry  them 
off;  then  make  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  beef  fat 
hot,  in  a  thick-bottomed  frying  pan,  add  to  it  half  a 
saltspoonful'of  salt ;  dip  each  oyster  in  wheat  flour, 
or  cracker  rolled  fine,  until  it  will  take  up  no  more, 
then  lay  them  in  the  pan,  hold  it  over  a  gentle  fire 
until  one  side  is  a  delicate  brow^n  ;  turn  the  other  b}^ 
sliding  a  fork  under  it ;  five  minutes  will  fry  them 
after  they  are  in  the  pan.  Oysters  may  be  fried  in 
butter,  but  it  is  not  so  good  ;  lard  and  butter  half 
and  half  is  verv  nice  for  frvino:.  Some  persons  like 
a  very  little  of  the  oyster  liquor  poured  in  the 
pan  after  the  oysters  are  done,  let  it  boil  up,  then 
put  it  in  the  dish  with  the  oysters  ;  when  wanted 
for  breakfast,  this  should  be  done. 

Oysters  to  be  fried,  after  dr3ang  as  directed,  may 
be  dipped  into  beaten  egg  first,  then  into  rolled 
cracker. 

Fried      Oysters      (  in      batter.  ) Take 

two  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  as 
much  wheat  flour,  or  rolled  cracker,  as  will  make  a 
nice  batter ;  dry  the  oysters  on  a  napkin,  put  a  fork 
through  the  ear  or  hard  part,  and  dip  each  oyster 
into  the  batter,  then  fry  as  before  directed. 

Oysters  fried  in  buttei  are  apt  to  be  too.  dark 
colored,  and  taste  strong.  C* 


(>S  BOILED    OYSTERS. 

Brofled  Oysters. — Take  the  largest  ovsters 
from  iheir  c^wn  li(iuor,  Iny  theai  on  a  folded  napkin 
to  dry  off  the  moisture,  then  dip  each  one  in  wlieat 
flour  or  rolled  cracker,  or  first  into  beaten  egg  and 
then  into  rolled  cracker;  have  a  gridiron  made  of 
coarse  wire,  put  it  over  a  bricrht  but  not  fierce  fire 
of  coals,  lay  the  oysters  carefully  on,  when  one  side 
is  done  turn  the  other,  put  some  sweet  butter  on  a 
hot  plate,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over,  lay  the  oys- 
ters on,  and  serve  with  crackers. 

To  Fry  Small  Oysters, — Take  them  singly 
from  their  own  liquor,  by  the  ear  with  a  fork,  dip 
each  one  in  wheat  Hour  or  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  beef  dripping  as  before  directed  ;  when 
all  are  cooked,  pour  a  little  of  the  liquor  or  oystei 
juice  into  the  pan,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  it  in 
the  dish  with  the  oysters;  this  is  not  generally  done, 
but  will  be  much  liked. 

Oysters  Roasted. — Wash  the  shells  perfectly 
clean,  wipe  thern  dr}^  and  Iny  them  on  a  gridiron, 
the  largest  side  to  the  fire  ;  set  it  over  a  bright  bed 
of  coals,  when  the  shells  open  w^de  and  the  oyster 
looks  white,  they  are  done  ;  fold  a  napkin  on  a  large 
dish  or  tra}^  lay  the  oysters  on  in  their  shells, 
taking  care  not  to  lose  the  juice  :  serve  hot. 

When  oysters  are  served  roasted  at  supper, 
there  must  be  a  small  tub  between  each  two  chairs, 
to  receive  the  shells,  and  large  coarse  napkins 
called  oyster  napkins.  Serve  cold  butter  and  rolls 
or  crackers  with  roasted  oysters. 

Boiled  Oysters. — Wash  the  shells  nicely,  and 
pu!  them  into  a  pot  or  pan,  with  the  edges  down- 
wards ;  put  a  pint  or  httle  less  of  water  to  them, 
and  put  them  over  a  brisk  fire.    As  soon  as  the 


PICKLED    OYSTERS.  '     69 

shells  open  wide,  take  them  off  and  take  out  the 
shells;  then  take  u{)  the  oysters  with  a  skimmer 
into  a  deep  dish  ;  put  to  them  some  of  the  liquor 
which  boiled  from  them,  add  to  it  butter  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  and  serve  with  rolls,  crackers  or  toast. 
For  persons  in  deh'cate  health,  this  manner  of 
preparing  oysters  is  both  light  and  healthful. 

Fricaseed  Oysters. — Wash  fifty  large  oysters 
in  their  own  liquor,  then  strain  it  over  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  stevvpan  over  a  gentle  fire.  Work 
a  heaping  teaspoon ful  of  wheat  flour  or  rolled 
cracker  into  a  teacup  of  sweet  butter,  add  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  the  same  of  ground  mace 
if  liked  ;  when  the  oysters  are  hot,  skim  them  clear, 
add  the  seasoning,  and  cover  close  for  five  minutes, 
or  until  the  o3^sters  are  plump  and  white. 

Serve  with  dressed  celery,  and  bread  and  butter 
sandwich  or  crackers. 

"X  Oysters  Stewed  with  Milk. — Take  a  pint  of 
fine  oysters,  put  them  with  their  own  liquor,  and  a 
gill  of  milk  into  a  stew-pan,  and  if  liked,  a  blade 
of  mace  ;  set  it  over  the  lire,  take  off  any  scum 
which  may  rise  ;  when  they  are  plump  and  white 
turn  them  into  a  deep  plate;  add  a  bit  of  butter, 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Serve  crackers  and  dressed  celery  with  them. 
Oysters  may  be  stewed  in  their  own  liquor  without 
milk. 

Pickled  Oysters,  No.  1. — Take  fine  large 
oysters,  put  them  over  a  gentle  fire  with  their  own 
liquor;  add  to  them  a  small  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  hickory  nut,  to  one  hundred,  let  them  simmer 
gently,  stir  them  carefully  that  they  may  not  burn. 
When  they  are  plump  and  white,  take  them  from 


60  PICKLED    OYSTERS. 

their  liquor  with  a  skimmer,  into  a  flat  dish;  have 
a  large  table  covered  with  a  thickly  folded  cloth, 
then  spread  out  and  nicely  smooth  each  oyster,  and 
lay  them  on  ;  let  them  remain  until  they  are  cold 
and  firm. 

Take  of  tljeir  own  .liquor  half  enough  to  cover 
them,  add  to  it  as  much  good  vinegar,  make  it  hot ; 
have  ready  a  stone  pot  or  tureen,  put  into  it  a  layer 
of  oysters,  over  them  strew  a  saltspoonful  of  ground 
mace,  and  a  dozen  cloves,  alspice,  and  whole  pep- 
per. Then  another  layer  of  oysters,  and  spice  and 
oysters  alternately,  until  all  are  used  ;  then  pour 
over  the  vinegar  and  juice,  and  set  them  in  a  cold 
place.  They  will  be  lit  for  use  the  next  da^s  and 
will  remain  good  for  months  in  a  cold  place.  They 
may  be  put  in  glass  jars  or  Ifottles  :  a  little  sw^eet 
oil  put  in  the  top  of  each  and  stopped  and  sealed 
tight,  they  will  keep  good  for  a  year.  A  bit  of  cot- 
ton applied  to  the  top  of  a  bottle  after  drawing  the 
cork,  will  absorb  the  oil. 

There  can  be  no  better  mode  of  pickling  oysters. 
Pickled  in  this  manner  they  have  been  eaten  by 
epicures  and  pronounced  delicious  ! 

To  Pickle  Oysters,  No.  2. — Take  one  hund- 
red large  oysters  from  their  own  liquor,  rinse  thern 
in  clear  w^ater,  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
add  a  quart  of  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  until  the}^  are  plump  and 
white  ;  then  take  them  from  the  water  with  a  skim- 
mer into  a  large  dish,  and  set  them  in  the  cold.  Put 
to  the  li(]uor  in  which  they  were  boiled,  an  equal 
quantity  of  good  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  whole 
pepper,  and  the  same  of  cloves,  alspice,  and  mace. 
When  the  oys'^ers  are  perfectly  cold  pour  the  pickle 
over. 

This  receipt  was  obtained  from  a  professor  of  the 


OYSTER    CHOWDER.  61 

art  of  pickling,  and  otherwise  rendering  oysters  ir- 
resistible, as  was  also  receipt  number  1,  which  is 
unquestionably  the  best.  In  number  2,  the  oyster 
is  more  agreeable  to  the  eye,  being  whiter,  and 
the  liquor  more  clear. 

To  Serve  Pickled  Oysters. — Take  them  from 
the  liquor  into  a  glass  dish,  ornament  the  edge  with 
a  wreath  of  the  most  delicate  leaves  of  celery  or 
parsley,  and  serve  with  bread  and  butter  sandwich. 

To  Pickle  vSmall  Oysters. — Put  them  over 
the  fire  in  their  own  liquor  until  they  are  plump  and 
white;  take  off  the  scum  ;  then  take  them  up  with 
a  skimmer,  spread  them  on  flat  dishes  and  set  them 
in  the  cold  ;  put  to  their  own  liquor  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  vinegar ;  alspice,  cloves,  whole  pepper,  and 
mace,  mixed — a  tablespoonful  to  a  quart  of  the 
pickle  ;  when  the  oysters  are  firm  and  cold,  pour  it 
over  them  whilst  it  is  warm.  Set  them  in  a  cold 
place,  and  they  will  be  fit  for  use  the  next  day  ;  it 
you  wish  to  keep  them,  put  them  in  glass  jars  or 
wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  cork  and  seal  them. 

Oyster  Chowder. — Butter  a  two  quart  tin  ba- 
sin ;  cover  it  with  soaked  crackers,  strew  bits  of 
butter,  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  over,  then  put.  in  a 
double  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  a  little  fine  pepper 
over,  and  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley,  if  liked  ; 
then  put  a  layer  of  soaked  crackers  and  bits  of 
butter  as  before  ;  then  another  layer  of  oysters  and 
seasoning,  and  lastly  soaked  crackers  and  butter, 
and  a  pint  of  the  oyster  liquor,  and  milk  or  water. 

Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  ;  when  done, 
turn  it  out  on  a  dish.  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  butter,  and  half  a  oound  of  crackers  soaked 


62  OYSTER    PIE. 

nearly  soft  in  milk  or  water,  to  three  pints  of  03^sters 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

This  is  a  Native  American  receipt,  and  will  be 
found  none  the  less  delicious  on  that  account. 
Small  sand  clams  may  be  done  in  the  same  man- 
ner.    Most  persons  would  prefer  this  to  oyster  pie. 

Oyster  Pie. — For  the  paste  see  clam  pie,  or 
use  puff  paste.  Butter  a  deep  tin  two  quart  bnsin, 
line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  the  paste,  rolled  to 
about  half  an  inch  thickness  ;  take  a  (|unrt  or  three 
pints  of  oysters  from  their  own  liquor  and  put  them 
into  the  pie  ;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet 
butter  in  bits  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  strew  these 
over  the  oysters;  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonfnl  of 
ground  pepper,  and  dredge  them  white  with  wheat 
dour,  then  strain  the  oyster  liquor  over  ;  add  to  it 
enough  milk  or  water  very  nearly  to  reach  the  top 
of  the  paste;  lay  some  skewers  across;  roll  some  of 
the  paste  to  nearly  half  an  inch  thickness,  make 
an  aperture  in  the  centre  to  allow  the  steam  to  es- 
cape, or  several  small  incisions  with  a  knife  on  either 
side  of  the  centre  ;  cover  the  pie;  dip  your  fin^ors 
m  flour,  and  pinch  trie  top  and  side  paste  neatly 
toirether.  Bake  nearly  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
draw  out  the  skewers  before  sending  to  the  table. 

The  edge  of  an  oyster  or  meat  pie  may  be  orna- 
mentej]  with  a  wreath  of  leaves  cut  with  a  tin  cut- 
ter from  a  sheet  of  paste  rolled  thin,  on  a  well- 
floured  slab.  Wet  the  under  surf^ice  as  you  put 
them  on,  to  make  them  stick  ;  the  slit  in  the  centre 
may  be  ornamented  in  the  same  manner,  or  with  a 
paste  flower.  The  ornament  for  the  edge  ma}'  be 
varied  as  the  taste  of  the  artist  may  direct.  Strips 
of  paste  braided,  or  made  a  chain  of,  or  a  row  of 
shells  cut  of  the  paste  and  moulded  like  wax,  are  a 
neat  ornament. 


SCOLLOPED  OYSTERS.  63 

The  upper  crust  may  be  wet  over  with  a  feather 
clipped  lightlv  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  with  a 
little  milk.     This  is  called  gilding.  ^ 

To  Serve  Oyster,  Meat  or  Chicken  Pies. 
— When  ready  to  serve,  lay  a  fringed  doyle  or  small 
napkin  on  a  plate,  larger  than  the  basin  in  which 
the  pie  is  baked  ;  set  the  pie  on  it,  then  turn  the 
edges  of  the  napkin  up  against  the  basin,  and  put 
sprigs  of  parsley,  or  green  leaves  of  celery  or  deli- 
cate vine  leaves  on  the  edge  of  the  plate,  under  the 
napkin  so  as  to  keep  it  in  its  place; — or  any  other 
tasteful  arrangement  which  may  render  the  dish 
ornamental. 

Oysters  Stewed  with  Wine. — (Receipt  one 
hundred  3'ears  old.)  Rub  over  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  silver  or  any  other  chafing  dish;  lay  some 
oysters  in  it,  strew  over  them  a  little  pepper  and 
minced  parsley;  then  put  to  them  half  a  glass  of 
Champagne  wine,  cover  them  with  slivers  of  butter, 
cut  very  thin ;  strew  grated  bread  or  rolled  crack- 
ers over  ;  put  a  cover  over  the  dish,  and  set  them 
cooking,  with  fire  over  and  under,  until  they  are  a 
fine  brown;  then  take  off  ail  the  fat,  wipe  the  rim 
of  the  dish,  and  serve  hot.  This  ma.v  be  done  in 
an  oven  instead. 

Oysters  au  Parmesan. — Instead  of  grated 
bread  or  crackers,  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt,  use 
grated  parmesan  or  English  cheese. 

Scolloped  Oysters — Butter  some  small  scol- 
loped tin  pans  ;  strew  grated  bread  or  rolled 
crackers  over,  and  strew  thin  slices  of  l)Ut- 
ter  over;  then  put  in  oysteis  nearly  to  fill  the 
pans  ;  strew  them   thickly  with  rolled   crackers  or 


64  STEWED  MUSCLES. 

bread  crumbs;  sprinkle  pepper  over  and  bits  of 
butter  ;  add  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor  ;  put  bits  of 
butter  over  the  whole 'surface,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ;  then  turn  them 
out  on  a  dish  and  serve.  They  should  be  nicely 
biowned. 

Muscles. — \yash  the  shells  clean,  and  put  them 
m  a  kettle  with  a  little  water  ;  set  them  over  the 
fire  until  the  shells  are  all  open ;  then  take  them  up, 
take  out  the  beard  from  each  one  ;  put  them  in  a 
deep  dish,  put  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over,  and 
serve  with  catsup,  and  vinegar  in  a  castor. 

Stewed  Muscles. — Having  boiled  them  from 
the  shells,  take  the  beard  out  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  wiih  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  they 
were  boiled;  strain  it  to  them;  add  some  cream  or 
milk,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  ;  dredge  flour  over  ;  stir  them  with  a  spoon, 
and  let  them  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  toast. 


CHOICE    OF    BEEF.  65 


MEATS. 

DIRECTIONS    FOR    BUYING  AND  DRESSING  BUTCHERS' 

MEAT. 

Any  but  experienced  judges  of  meat  are  recom- 
mended to  buy  of  none  but  such  butchers  as  nei- 
ther kill  or  sell  inferior  stock. 

Buy  of  some  one  particular  butcher,  and  let  him 
choose  for  you,  only  telling  him  what  you  want; 
take  such  as  he  recommends,  and  his  own  interest 
will  cause  him  to  deal  honestlv,  if  he  has  no  his/her 
motive  ;  none  will  be  likely  to  risk  losing  a  good 
customer  by  selling  inferior  pieces  ;  you  w^ill  find  a 
uaiformity  of  prices  for  the  same  cuts  of  the  best 
stock,  go  where  you  will  in  the  same  city.    , 

To  Choose  Beef. — When  beef  is  good  it  may 
be  knowm  by  its  texture  and  color ;  the  lean  will 
have  a  fine  open  grain  of  a  deep  coral  or  bright  car- 
nation red  ;  the  fat  rather  inclining  to  white  than 
yellow  ;  and  the  suet  firm  and  white.  Very  yellow 
fat  is  generally  considered  sufficient  proof  of  infe- 
rior beef. 

'  If  you  wish  to  keep  beef  two  or  three  days  in  hot 
weather,  do  not  salt  it,  but  dry  it  well  in  a  clean 
cloth,  rub  ground  pepper  plentifully  over  every  part 
of  it  first,  then  flour  it  well,  and  ha.ng  it  in  a  cool 
dry  place  where  the  air  wdll  come  to  it ;  be  sure 
always  that  there  is  no  damp  place  about  it ;  when 
you  find  any,  dry  it  w^ith  a  cloth  ;  pepper  will  secure 
meat  from  flies. 

The  best  roasting  pieces  of  beef  are  the  Prime 
ribs,  sirloin,  and  what  is  known  as  porter-house 
piece  ;  it  may  be  recognised  by  the  bone. 

The  best  steaks  are  cut  from  the  sirloin  and  por- 


66  BEEF,  SALTED  OR  CORNED. 

ter-house.  The  last  mentioned  cut  probably  took 
its  name  from  having  been  the  most  highly  esteem- 
ed steak,  and  so  dished  for  the  palate  of  the  eoicure 
at  porter-houses,  which  were  formerly  the  only  eat- 
ing houses.  Fine  steaks  may  be  cut  from  between 
the  ribs. 

The  round  of  tender,  fat  beef,  cuts  very  good 
steaks,  as  does  also  the  cross-ribs,  but  these  are 
juiceless  compared  with  the  other  pieces.  The 
lean  of  fat  beef  is  the  most  juicy  and  tender. 
'  The  neck,  shin,  or  marrow'  bone,  leg  or  head, 
make  good  soups. 

Beef  skirts  are  good  for  sausage  meat,  stew^ing, 
hashes,  or  for  mince  pie  meat;  or  they  may  be 
broiled  or  fried. 

To  keep  beef,  take  out  the  kernels  from  the  nock 
pieces  where  the  clod  is  taken  off*,  two  from  each 
round  of  beef,  one  in  the  middle,  the  other  in  the 
flap,  and  one  in  the  thick  flank,  in  the  middle  of  the 
fat;  if  these  are  not  taken  out,  particulaily  in  sum- 
mer, it  cannot  be  kept  sweet,  even  for  salting; 
there  is  also  another  kernel  between  the  rump  and 
edge  bone. 

Beef  Salted  or  Corned,  Red,  to  Icccp  for 
years, — Cut  up  a  quarter  of  beef.  For  each  hun- 
dred wxMght  take  half  a  peck  of  coarse  salt,  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  the  same  weight  fjf 
saleratus,  and  a  quart  of  niolasses,  or  two  pounds 
of  coarse  brown  sugar.  Mace,  cloves  and  alspice 
may  be  added  for  spiced  beef 

Strew  some  of  the  salt  in  the  l)Ottom  of  a  pickle 
tub  or  barrel  ;  then  put  in  a,  layer  of  meat,  strew 
this  with  salt,  then  add  anotlicr  layer  of  meat,  and 
salt  and  meat  aliernately,  until  al!  is  used.  Let  it 
remain  one  night.  Dissolve  the  saieratus  aYid  sa.lt- 
petre  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  put  it  to  liie  uhj- 


BEEF,  SALTED  OR  CORNED.  67 

lasses  or  sugar ;  then  put  it  over  the  meat,  add 
water  enough  to  cover  the  ment,  lay  a  board  on  it 
to  keep  it  under  the  brine.  The  meat  is  fit  for  use 
after  ten  days.  This  receipt  is  for  winter  beef. — 
Rather  more  salt  may  be  used  in  warm  weather. 

Towards  spring  take  the  brine  from  the  meat, 
make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it  clear,  and  when  it  is 
cooled,  return  it  to  the  meat. 

Beef  tongues  and  smoking  pieces  are  fine  pickled 
in  this  brine.  Beef  liver  put  in  this  brine  for  ten 
daA'S,  and  then  wiped  dry  and  smoked,  is  very  fine. 
Cut  it  in  slices,  and  fry  or  broil  it.  The  brisket  of 
beef,  after  being  corned,  may  be  smoked,  and  is 
very  fine  for  boiling. 

Lean  pieces  of  beef,  cut  properly  from  the  hind 
quarter,  are  the  proper  pieces  for  being  smoked. 
There  may  be  some  fine  pieces  cut  from  the  fore 
quarter. 

After  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  ten  days  oi 
more,  wipe  it  dry,  and  hang  it  in  a  chimney  where 
wood  is  burnt,  or  make  a  smotljered  fire  of  sawdust 
or  chips,  and  keep  it  smoking  for  ten  days  ;  then 
rub  fine  black  pepper  over  every  part,  to  keep  the 
flies  from  it,  and  hang  it  in  a  dry,  dark,  cool  place. 
After  a  week  it  is  fit  for  use.  A  strong,  coarse 
brown  paper,  folded  around  beef,  and  fastened 
wnth  paste,  keeps  it  nicely. 

Tongues  are  smoked  in  the  same  manner.  Hang 
them  by  a  string  put  through  the  root  end.  Spiced 
brine  for  smoked  beef  or  ton  ones  will  be  generally 
liked. 

For  convenience  make  a  pickle  as  mentioned  for 
beef,  keep  it  in  the  cellar,  ready  f()r  pickling  beef 
«t  any  time.  Eecf  m.ay  rem.ain  in  three  or  four  or 
more  days. 

Beef  Salted. /r^r  immediate  use. — Take  a  piece 


68  PICKLED  BEEF CLEANING  TRIPE. 

of  beef  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  (it  should  not 
wei^h  more)  ;  mix  together  a  gill  of  fine  salt,  the 
same  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  and  a  leaspoonful  of 
powdered  saleratus.  Rub  this  mixture  well  over 
the  meat ;  then  take  a  thick,  coarse  cloth,  flour  it 
well,  put  the  meat  into  it,  and  fold  it  close  ;  pin  it 
or  tie  it  securely,  put  it  into  a  pot  of  hot  water,  and 
keep  it  boiling  genth',  allowing  fifteen  minutes  for 
each  pound  of  meat. 

This  ver\'  nearly  resembles  corned  beef.  Beef 
tongues  may  be  boiled  in  the  same  manner. 

Pickled  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  beef  weighing 
five  or  six  pounds  ;  rub  it  well  over  with  pepper  and 
salt,  stick  it  full  of  cloves,  cover  it  with  vinegar, 
and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  As  the  vine- 
gar wastes,  add  more  ;  then  put  it  down  in  a  stew-- 
pot, with  vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts  ;  cover  it 
close,  add  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  when  it  is 
tendef  put  in  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  small,  dredge 
in  a  teacupful  of  browned  flour;  put  to  it  a  leek, 
and  a  bunch  of  parsley,  cut  small,  and  let  it  con- 
tinue to  stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  until  the  gra- 
\y  is  brown  and  rich.  Take  it  up,  and  serve  with 
the  gravy  over,  the  same  as  a-la-mode  beef. 

Or  take  it  up  when  it  is  boiled  tender,  before  the 
seasoning  is  put  in  ;  slice  it  thin  for  supper  or  sand- 
wiches. Beef  tongue  ma\'  be  done  in  the  san>e 
manner. 

Beef  Tripe. — Beef  tripe  may  be  dressed  in  a 
variety  of  ways,  by  which  to  recommend  it  to  the 
palate.  It  may  be  fried,  stewed,  or  broiled.  It  is 
lo  be  cleaned  and  1x)iled  tender  before  dressing  in 
any  other  manner. 

To  Clean  Tripe. — Empty  it,  and  rinse  it  clean 


FRYING    TRIPE ROLLA-CHEESE.  69 

in  cold  water;  then  sprinkle  fine  lime  all  over  it, 
put  it  in  a  tub,  and  cover  with  warm  water;  let  it 
remain  three  or  four  hours,  then  scrape  it  clean  w^ith 
a  knife,  and  if  the  dark  does  not  all  come  oflreasil}^ 
sprinkle  more  lime  on,  and  let  it  lay  an  hour  longer: 
then  scrape  it  again,  take  it  out,  and  wash  it  well 
in  clean  cold  water,  and  put  it  in  weak  salt  and 
water  for  one  night  and  day;  then  change  the  wa- 
ter and  let  it  lay  another  night.  Keep  it  for  three 
or  four  davs  in  salt  and  water,  changing  it  every 
da)^ ;  it  will  then  be  white  and  clean.  Take  it  out, 
cut  it  in  pieces  about  tv.-elve  inches  long,  and  six 
wide,  and  if  you  please  lay  it  in  buttermilk,  or  sour 
milk,  part  of  a  day,  to  whiten  it ;  then  rinse  it  in 
clear  water,  boil  it  tender.  When  cold,  dress  it  as 
you  like  ;  keep  it  in  w^eak  vinegar,  or  vinegar  and 
water. 

In    New-York    markets,    tripe   may   be    bought" 
cleaned  and  boiled. 


7- 


;^  To  Fry  Tripe. — Take  prepared  tripe,  lay  it  in 
water,  with  a  little  salt,  over  night ;  in  the  morning 
scrape  the  rough  side  clean,  wipe  it  dry;  then  dip 
it  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers. 

Havj3  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan,  put  into  it  a 
cup  of  lard  or  beef  dripping,  let  it  become  boiling 
hot ;  then  lay  the  tripe  in,  the  rough  side  down  first, 
let  it  fry  gently  ;  when  this  side  is  a  delicate  brown 
turn  the  other  and  do  likewise  ;  then  take  it  from 
the  pan,  add  to  the  fat  in  which  it  was  fried  a  wine- 
glass of  vinegar,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  pour  it  in 
the  viish  with  the  tripe,  or  you  may  use  water  in- 
stead of  vinegar. 

Rolla-Cheese. — Take  the  skirts  of  beef,  cut  it 
in  narrow  strips,  and  lay  it,  t^at  and  lean,  on  pieces 
of  prepared   tripe,  the   rough   side   in,  season  with 


70  BEEF    LIVER. 

pepper  and  salt  (put  about  a  large  toaspoonful  of 
sail,  and  half  of  a  small  one  of  fine  pepper  to  each 
pound  of  meat)  ;  roll  each  piece  of  tripe  up,  with 
a  portion  of  the  meat  in  it ;  do  not  fill  it  quite  full ; 
draw  the  edges  together,  and  sew  them  with  a 
strong  thread,  making  them  in  rolls;  sew  up  the 
ends ;  after  all  are  made,  drop  them  into  a  pot  of 
hot  water,  and  let  them  boil  gently,  until  a  straw 
will  easily  penetrate  them  ;  then  take  them  from 
the  water,  and  la}^  them  in  a  vessel  or  tub  side  by 
side,  lay  a  board  and  weight  over  them,  to  press 
ihemflat;  when  cold  keep  them  in  vinegar  and 
water.  Cut  them  in  thin  slices,  for  breakfast,  sup- 
per, or  luncheon. 

Fricaseed  Tripe. — Cut  a  pound  of  tripe  in  nar- 
row strips,  put  a  small  cup  of  water  or  milk  to  it. 
add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e2:g,  dredge  in 
a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour,  or  work  it  with  the 
butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  half  an  hour,  serve  hot.  A  bunch  of 
parsley  cut  small  and  put  with  it  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

Broiled  Tripe. — Prepare  tripe  as  for  frying,  lay 
it  on  a  griiJiron  over  a  clear  fire  of  coals, lot  it  broil 
gently;  when  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  turn  the 
other  side  (it  must  be  nearly  done  through  before 
turning)  ;  take  it  up  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  it,  and  if 
liked,  add  a  httle  catsup  or  vinegar  to  the  gravy. 

Beef  Liveh. — Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  dip 
each'slice  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers,  and  frv 
in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping  ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  It  must  be  thoroughly  cooked,  and  a  fine 
brown. 

Some  persons  prefer  liver  fried  with  onions, — if 


POTTED    HEAD.  71 

SO,  peel  and  cut  in  slices  a  sufficient  nunnber  of 
onions;  fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  to  a 
nice  brown  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
in  a  dish  with  the  liver. 

I  Beef  Steak  with  Onions. — Take  an  inferior 
beef  steak  from  the  round  or  cross-rib  ;  fry  it  with 
beef  fat;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  fry  some 
onions  also,  and  serve  in  the  dish  with  the  steak. 

Beef  Head-Cheese. — Split  a  be*f  head  in  two, 
take  out  the  eyes,  crack  the  side  bones,  and  lay  it 
in  water  for  one  nigtu,  to  draw  out  the  blood,  then 
put  it  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it, 
let  it  boil  gently,  skimnjing  it  often  ;  wlien  liie  meat 
loosens  from  the  hones,  take  it  from  the  water  with 
a  skimmer  into  a  bowl  or  tray;  take  out  every  par- 
ticle of  bone  ;  season  with  a  small  teacu])ful  of  tine 
salt,  and  half  as  nuuch  pepper;  chop  it  fine  ;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  pow^dered  thym.e  or  sage,  tie  it  in 
a  cloth,  and  press  it  by  laying  a  gentle  weiglit  on  it. 
When  cold,  it  may  be  cut  in  sUces  for  luncheon  or 
supper. 

Potted  Head.- — Thorouohlv  clean  an  ox  head, 
split  it  in  two,  take  out  the  eyes  and  brains,  then  boil 
it  gently,  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  it ;  skim  it 
clear,  when  the  bones  loosen  it  is  done  enough 
then  take  it  up,  take  out  every  particle  of  bone 
strain  the  liquor  in  w  hich  it  was  boiled,  add  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  and  put  it  w^ith  the  meat  in  a 
stew-pan  or  dinner-pot  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  it 
simmer  until  the  water  is  nearly  all  done  away, 
then  put  it  in  a  stone  pot,  j)ress  it  down  and  let  it 
become  cold. 

To  be  eaten  sliced  foi  luncheon  or  supper. 


12  STEWED    ROUND    OF    BEEF. 

Beef  Skirts. — This  part  of  beef  may  be  broiled 
and  well  b Littered,  made  in  a  pie  or  stewed  with 
onions  and  potatoes. 

Beef  Stewed  (ragoo.) — Cu^  two  pounds  of 
beef  in  neat  square  pieces,  seaj^on  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  w^ith  water  scarcely  to  cover 
'it;  set  it  where  it  will  simmer  slowly;  cut  two 
small  carrots  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  the  edge 
of  each  slice  in  notches,  and  put  them  in  hot  water 
over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  to  them  five 
or  six  small  potatoes,  pared  and  sliced  in  the  same 
manner;  then  cover  the  stew^-pan  lor  ten  minutes 
longer,  when  these  vegetables  will  be  done  enough. 
Dip  a  bunch  of  parsle}^  into  boiling  water  and  cut 
it  small ;  cut  a  leek  or  white  onion  very  small, — 
now  skim  the  meat ;  take  a  piece  of  butter,  the 
size  of  a  large  t^gg,  work  a  tablespoon ful  of  wheat 
flour  w^ith  it  and  stir  it  with  the  meat;  then  put  in 
the  prepared  vegetables;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then 
take  it  from  the  fire  ;  put  the  meat  in  the  centre  oi 
the  steak  dish,  put  the  sliced  carrots  and  potatoes 
around  it  and  turn  the  gravy  over.  A  tablespoon- 
ful  of  tomato  catsup  may  be  added  to  the  gravy, 
or  serve  catsup  with  it. 

To  Stew  a  Round  of  Beef. — Boil  the  beel 
until  it  is  rather  more  than  half  done  ;  gash  it  with 
a  sharp  knife,  then  rub  it  over  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  sweet  herbs  chopped  small  ;  one  sliced  carrot ; 
also  a  leek  or  onion  cut  smnll ;  dredge  it  white  w^ith 
flour;  strew  bits  of  butter  over,  and  put  it  into  a 
dinner  pot  with  a  pint  or  more  of  the  water  in  which 
it  was  boiled  ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  bake  or  stew 


BEEF  HARD  BAKED  OR  ROASTED.       73 

slowly  for  two  hours  ;  add  a  little  hot  water  when 
it  maybe  necessary  to  keep  it  from  burning;  turn 
it  once  ;  when  it  is  nicely  browned,  take  it  up,  add 
a  little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  stir  it  well  togeth- 
er, let  it  boil  up  once,  and  then  pour  it  over  the 
meat. 

Beef  Bouilli. — Take  a  round  of  beef  or  a  part 
of  one,  take  out  the  bone  and  tie  it  together  in  a 
neat  form  with  a  strong  cord  ;  put  with  it  any  odd 
bits  of  butchers'  meat,  whether  beef,  veal,  or  lamb, 
or  the  giblets  of  game-  or  poultry  ;  put  it  in  a  din- 
ner-pot, with  water  to  cover  it,  over  a  moderate  fire, 
when  it  boils  skim  it  clear ;  when  it  is  tender,  (al- 
low fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat,)  put  in 
some  salt  and  pepper ;  add  one  or  two  carrots  sliced 
and  an  onion  or  leek  cut  small,  also  a  bunch  of 
parsley  ;  then  put  in  a  teacup  of  browned  flour  and 
the  same  of  butter;  cover  it  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  take  up  the  meat,  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine, 
or  catsup  to  the  gravy,  then  strain  it  over  the  meat. 

Beef  Heart  Baked  or  Roasted. — Cut  a  beef 
heart  in  two,  take  out  the  strings  from  the  inside; 
wash  it  with  warm  water,  rub  the  inside  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  fill  it  whh  a  stuffing  made  of  bread 
and  butter  moistened  with  water,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a  sprig  of  thyme 
made  fine  ;  put  it  together  and  tie  a  string  around 
it,  rub  the  outside  with  pepper  and  salt;  stick  bits 
of  butter  on,  then  dredge  flour  over,  and  set  it  on  a 
trivet,  or  muffin  rings,  in  a  dripping  pan  ;  put  a 
pint  of  water  in  to  baste  w^ith,  then  roast  it  before 
a  hot  fire,  or  in  a  hot  oven  ;  turn  it  around  and  baste 
fi  equently.  One  hour  will  roast  or  bake  it ;  when 
done,  take  it  up,  cut  a  lemon  in  thin  slices,  and  put 
it  in  the  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter;  dredge  in  a  tea- 


74  _  BEEF    KIDNEYS. 

spoonful  of  flour;  let  it  brovrn ;  add  a  small  tea- 
cup of  boiling  water,  stir  it  smooth,  and  serNe  in  a 
gravy  tureen. 

Beef  Heart  Stewed. — Wash  a  beef  heart  in 
warm  water;  take  the  strings  fiom  the  inside,  and 
fill  it  with  a  stuffing  niade  of  bread  buttered,  and 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  moistened  with 
hot  water.  An  ouion  finely  minced,  or  a  ^prig  of 
thyme  niay  be  added,  if  liked;  then  put  it  in  an 
iron  diiuier-pot  or  bake-pan,  with  three  ])ints  of  hot 
w^ater ;  cover  it  and  let  it  boil  slowly,  until  it  is  ten- 
der ;  skim  it  clear;  then  if  the  water  is  not  nenrlv 
boiled  away,  take  out  all  but  about  half  a  pint ;  add 
to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  cut  small, 
dredge  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour, 
sprinkle  over  a  small  teaspoonful  of  fine  pepper, 
and  a  large  one  of  salt:  cover  the  pot,  and  set  it 
over  a  moderate  fire  to  finish.  When  the  lower 
side  begins  to  brown  turn  the  other,  and  brown 
that  also — take  care  not  to  let  it  burn.  Then  take 
it  up,  add  a  cup  of  hot  water  or  wine  to  the  grav\' ; 
let  it  boil  up  once,  stir  smooth,  then  pour  it  over  the 
heait,  and  serve  with  plain  boiled  or  mashed  pota- 
toes. Tomato  catsup  may  be  put  in  the  gravy, 
instead  of  wine — or  served  with  it. 

Beef  Kidneys. — These  maybe  split  and  fried, 
or  broiled,  or  they  may  be  chopped  small,  and 
made  a  hash  or  stew.  Cut  them  in  half,  or  mince 
them,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  enough  hot 
water  to  moisten  them  ;  then  cover  them  close,  and 
let  them  simmer  gently  until  tender;  add  a  good 
bit  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  iind  some 
browned  flour;  a  wine-glass  of  wine  or  catsup  may 
be  added,  if  liked.  Let  them  simmer  for  ten 
cninutes  longer.     Toast   some  thin  slices  of  bread 


POTATO    AND    BEEF    HASH.  76 

dellcalel}'  brown,  take  off  the  crust,  and  la}^  them 
in  n  dish,  and  pnl  the  s^,e\v  or  Ijash  over.  A  finely 
chopped  onion  or  leek  rnay  be  added  to  it,  if  liked. 

Smoked  Beef. — After  the  beef  has  been  in  the 
brine  ten  days  or  more,  hang  it  in  a  chimney  over 
a  Vv'Ood  or  sawdust  fire — it  must  be  a  smothered  fire 
if  made  of  wood.  Keep  it  smoking  for  ten  days 
or  a  ibrtnight ;  then  rub  the  outside  over  every  part 
with  black  pepper,  and  hang  it  in  a  cool  dry  place. 
To  serve  it,  cut  off  some  of  the  outside,  and  chip  it 
thin  with  a  sharp  knife  for  tea.  After  it  is  cut,  keep 
a  thick  paper  folded  about  it. 

Hashed  Beef. — Take  some  very  rare  done  or 
uncooked  beef,  chop  it  small,  one-fourth  as  much 
fat  as  lean,  and  moisten  it  with  water  or  gravy  ;  if 
w^ith  water,  add  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  put 
it  in  a  closely  covered  stew-pan,  over  a  gentle  fire, 
for  half  an  hour  ;  then  dredge  in  a  little  browned 
flour,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  cover  it  for 
fifteen  minutes,  and  serve.  Or  cut  some  thin  sli- 
ces of  toast  in  neat  squares,  put  them  in  the  dish, 
and  put  the  hash  on  it ;  or  serve  it  on  boiled  rice. 

Some  persons  like  a  teaspocnful  of  made  mustard 
or  catsup  put  to  it  before  dishing  it. 

Potato  and  Beef  Hash. — Mince  some  cold 
beef,  a  little  fat  with  the  lean,  put  to  it  as  much  cold 
boiled  potatoes  chopped  as  you  like,  (the  quantit}^ 
as  of  meat  or  twice  as  much,)  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  add  as  much  gravy  or  hot  water  as  will 
make  it  moist,  then  put  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle 
fire  ;  dredge  m  a  small  quantity  of  wheat  flour  ; 
stir  it  about  with  a  spoon,  cover  the  stew-pan,  and 
let  it  simmer  ir)r  half  an  hour — take  care  that  it 
does  not  burn.     Dish  it  with  or  without  a  slice  of 


76  BROILED    BEEF    STEAK. 

toasl  under  it;  for  breakfast.  This  hash  may  be 
made  without  potatoes  ;  if  water  is  used  instead  of 
gravy,  a  bit  of  butter  may  be  added,  more  or  less, 
according  to  the  proportion  of  fat  with  the  lean 
meat. 

Beef  Cakes. — Chop  fine  some  underdone  beef, 
lean,  with  such  a  proportion  of  fat  as  you  like,  add 
to  it  a  chopped  leek  or  onion,  if  liked,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
sak-spoonful  of  pepper,  mix  wejl ;  flour  your  hands 
aruj  m.ake  the  mince  in  small  cakes  of  about  half 
an  inch  thickness,  and  fry  them  in  hot  beef  drip- 
ping or  lard  ;  if  you  Uke,  fry  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley 
with  them. 

These  cakes  maybe  made  with  boiled  potatoes, 
mashed  with  one-third  (or  more)  as  much  finely 
minced  beef,  season  as  before,  moisten  slightly  with 
water  or  gravy,  and  finish  as  before  directed. 

Beef  Steaks. — Sirloin,  and  what  is  known  in 
New-York  markets  as  porter-house  steaks,  are  the'" 
choicest  cuts.  If  the  beef  is  not  very  tender  and 
young,  it  may  be  improved  by  beating  gently  with 
a  rolling  pin  or  potato  beetle  before  cooking,  the 
steaks  should  be  nearly  the  thickness  of  an  inch  : 
beefsteaks  must  on  no  account  be  w^ashed.  By 
keeping  beef  as  long  as  possible  without  tainting,  it 
may  be  improved  in  flavor,  and  will  eat  more  ten- 
der ;  broihng  is  by  far  the  best  manner  of  cooking 
beefsteaks. 

Broiled  Beef  Steak. — Rave  a  bright  clear 
fire  of  coals,  rub  the  gridiron  bars  with  a  bit  of  suet, 
lay  on  the  steak,  and  let  it  broil  gently  until  one 
side  is  done,  then  take  the  steak  over  the  steak-dish 
to  catch  the  blood  before  turning  it,  then  lay  the 


BEEF    STEAK    PIE.  77 

upper  side  to  the  fire.  For  a  fine  steak,  (weighing 
about  two  pounds  and  a  half.)  take  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sweet  butter  on  the  dish,  work  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  fine  pepper  and  a  large  one  of  salt 
into  it ;  when  the  steak  is  done,  put  it  on  the  butter, 
when  it  melts  a  little  turn  the  steak  ;  repeat  the 
turning  once  or  twice,  then  put  a  tin  cover  over  and 
serve  quickly  ;  the  dish  must  be  hot. 

Beef  steaks  are  generally  preferred  broiled  so 
that  the  middle  will  be  slightly  red.  Tomato  cat- 
sup to  be  served  with  beef  steak. 

Beef  Steaks  fried,  to  taste  like  a  hroiL — Have 
ready  a  bright  quick  fire,  put  a  bit  of  buUer  in  a 
pan,  and  when  it  is  hot,  lay  the  steak  evenly  in,  let 
it  fry  quickW,  turn  it  once  or  twice  to  retain  the 
juice ;  work  some  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  together 
as  for  a  broiled  steak,  make  a  steak  dish  hot,  and 
when  the  steak  is  done  to  taste,  lay  it  on  the  dish, 
then  put  the  butter  on  it,  turn  it  once  or  twice  on 
the  dish  and  sei've  hot.  Steaks  done  in  this  manner 
are  pronounced  by  epicures  as  fine  as  broiled. 

Fried  Beef  Steaks. — Cut  some  of  the  fat  from 
the  steak,  and  put  it  in  a  frying  pan  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  ;  if  the  steaks  are  not  very  tender,  beat 
them  with  a  roUing  pin,  and  when  the  fat  is  boil- 
ing hot,  put  the  steak  evenly  in,  cover  the  pan  and 
let  it  fty  briskly  until  one  side  is  done,  sprinkle  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  over,  and  turn  the  other ;  let 
it  be  rare  or  well-done  as  may  be  liked  ;  take  the 
steak  on  a  hot  dish,  add  a  wineglass  or  less  of  boil- 
ing water  or  catsup  to  the  gravy  ;  let  it  boil  up 
once,  and  pour  it  in  the  dish  with  the  steak. 

Beef  Stea«:  Pie. — Take  some  fine  tender 
steaks,  beat  them  a  little,  season  with  a  salt-spoon- 


78  BEEF    AND    ONIOX    STEW. 

ful  of  pe])pcr  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  two 
pound  steak  ;  put  bits  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory nut,  over  the  \vhole  surfice,  dredge  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  over,  then  roll  it  up  and  cut  it  in 
pieces  two  inches  long  ;  put  a  rich  pie  paste  around 
the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  tin  basin  ;  put  in  the 
pieces  of  steak,  nearly  fill  the  basin  with  water,  add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  cut  small, 
dredge  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt,  lay  skewers  across  the  basin,  roll  a 
top  crust  to  half  an  inch  thickness,  cut  a  slit  in  the 
centre  ;  dip  your  fingers  in  flour  and  neatly  pinch 
the  top  and  side  crust  together  all  around  the  edge. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Beef  Steak  Pudding. — Beat  a  beef  steak 
well,  make  a  paste  in  this  manner ;  take  two 
pounds  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  rub  into 
it  a  teacup  of  lard  or  beef  dripping  to  half  a  pint 
of  sour  milk  ;  put  the  same  quantity  of  water  ;  dis- 
solve a  small  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  it,  and 
make  a  paste  of  the  flour  with  it ;  use  as  much  as 
may  be  necessary  to  make  a  nice  dough  ;  then  flour 
a  cake  board  and  rolling-pin,  and  roll  the  paste  to 
loss  than  half  an  ifich  thickness  ;  lay  on  the  steak  , 
let  the  paste  l)e  two  inches  larger  every  w^ay  than 
the  steak  ;  then  roll  it  up  ;  flour  a  pudding  cloth 
and  wrap  the  pudding  in  it;  secure  the  ends,  and 
put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  ;  let  it  boil  two  hours ;  then  take  it  from  the 
cloth  and  serve  with  melted  butter.  To  be  cut  in 
slices  across. 

Beef  and  Onion  Stew. — Cut  two  pounds  of 
meat  in  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  put  it  in  a 
stew-pan  with  enough  warm  water  nearly  to  cover 
it;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  it  simnjer  slowly 


FRIED  BEEF  STEAKS  WITH  GRAVY.      79 

for  half  an  hour  ;  then  skim  it  clear,  peel  five  or  six 
small  onions  and  cut  them  in  thick  slices  ;  paie  half 
a  dozen  large  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  half,  or 
quarters ;  add  a  small  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  pepper  to  the  stewed  meat ; 
then  put  in  the  potatoes  and  onions.  If  the  meat  is 
lean,  (it  is  best  to  have  a  small  proportion  of  fat,) 
add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  ;  shake 
over  it  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  or  work  it 
into  the  butter ;  cover  the  stew-pan  close,  and  let 
it  stew  gently  that  it  may  brown  without  burning  ; 
one  hour  is  required  for  making  this  stew.  If  the 
potatoes  are  cut  smaller  than  halves,  they  should 
be  put  in  twenty  minutes  before  it  is  done  ;  half  an 
hour  will  be  required  to  cook  them  if  cut  in  tw^o. 

Fried  Beef  Steaks,  with  Gravy. — Take  a 
round  or  cross  rib  steak  ;  if  it  is  not  tender,  beat  it 
with  a  rolling  pin  ;  cut  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  put 
it  in  a  frying-pan  ;  add  to  it  for  each  pound  of  meat 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
pepper;  then  put  in  the  steak;  cut  it  so  that  it 
will  lay  flat ;  cover  the  pan,  and  let  it  fry  as  quick 
as  possible  without  burning  ;  when  one  side  is  done, 
or  browned,  turn  the  other,  and  when  that  is  done, 
more  or  less  rare  according  to  taste,  take  the  pan 
from  the  fire  ;  take  the  steak  on  a  hot  dish  ;  then 
dredge  in  to  the  pan  a  tablespoonful  of  w^heat 
flour,  stir  it  around,  and  w^hen  it  is  brow^n,  (unless 
there  is  plenty  of  fat,)  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  a 
teacup  of  boiling  water;  stir  it  smooth, "taste  it,  and 
if  it  is  not  seasoned  to  taste,  add  a  little  more  of 
salt  and  pepper ;  then  pour  it  through  a  gravy 
strainer  over  the  steak,  and  serve  with  catsup  in 
the  castor.  This  gravy  does^ot  require  to  be  fat, 
but  well  seasoned  and  a  fine  brown. 


80  TO  ROAST  BEEF. 

Minced  Beef. — Chop  some  cold  under-done 
beef  very  fine;  put  to  each  pound  of  meat  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  sdlt,  and  an  even  filled  saltspoon  of 
pepper ;  add  to  it  enough  hot  water  or  gravy  scarcely 
to  moisten  it,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  ;  cover  it 
close,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  half  an  hour  ; 
stir  the  mince  occasionally  ;  toast  one  or  two  thin 
slices  of  bread  a  fine  brown  ;  cut  off  the  crust  and 
lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  put  the  mince  over.  Or  in- 
stead of  toast,  boil  some  rice  as  follows  : — To  a 
small  teacup  of  well  washed  rice,  put  a  quart  of  hot 
water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  ;  cover  it,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  heat  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  ;  do  not  stir  the  rice  ;  then  take 
it  from  the  fire  ;  take  offthe  cover  and  set  it  before 
the  fire  for  five  minutes  to  grain;  then  put  it  on  a 
flat  dish,  and  put  the  mince  on  it — if  you  please, 
reserve  part  of  the  rice,  to  be  eaten  wiih  butter  and 
sugar,  or  wine  sauce.  This  may  be  served  for 
breakfast,  or  a  side  dish  at  dinner. 

To  Roast  Beef. — Have  a  bright  clear  fire  be- 
fore putting  down  the  roast;  if  it  is  large,  have  a 
fire  according;  let  it  be  a  clear  steady  fire,  with  a 
bed  of  coals  at  the  bottom — this  is  for  a  wood  fire  ; 
for  a  coal  fire,  make  one  large  enough  to  last  the 
length  of  time  required  for  the  roast,  (fifteen  minutes 
for  each  pound  of  meat ;)  make  the  front  of  the  fire 
clear  from  ashes,  and  brush  up  the  hearth  ;  rinse 
the  meat  in  cold  water,  wnpe  it  dry,  mix  salt  and 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
pepper,  for  each  pound  of  meat;  rub  it  over  every 
part,  then  put  it  evenly  on  the  spit,  taking  care  not 
to  run  it  through  the  best  parts,  or  if  it  is  done 
in  a  reflector,  set  it  on  a  trivet  or  muffin  rings,  and 
turn  the  pan  about  as  occasion  may  require;) 
then  put  it  down  at  a  little  distance  from  the  fire, 


TO    ROAST    BEEF.  SI' 

that  the  outside  may  not  be  too  much  done  before 
the  inside  is  cooked  ;  put  at  least  a  pint  of  wnter 
in  the  dripping-pan,  with  which  to  bnsie  ;  replenish 
with  boiling  water,  so  that  there  shall  not  be  less 
than  a  pint  of  gravy,  when  the  meat  is  done,  for  a 
piece  weighing  live  or  six  pounds  ;  when  about 
half  done,  clear  the  front  of  the  fire,  and  set  it  a 
little  nearer  ;  turn  the  meat  so  that  all  sides  may  be 
done  evenly  ;  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done,  if 
you  please,  dredge  with  the  fat  of  the  meat  wheat 
flour  until  it  looks  white  ;  baste  it  freely,  and  set  it 
to  finish  ;  when  done,  take  it  on  to  a  large  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  tin  cover  ;  set  the  dripping  over  the 
fire,  dredge  in  a  small  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  it 
smooth ;  when  it  is  a  fine  brown,  add  a  teacup  of 
boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil  up,  stirring  it  meanwhile  ; 
then  pour  it  through  a  ^ravy  strainer  into  a  tureen; 
if  there  is  much  iat,  skim  nearly  all  of  it  off:  or, 
instead  of  dredging  in  flour,  make  a  thin  smooth 
batter  of  a  tablespoonful  of  flom-,  and  a  small  cup 
of  cold  water  ;  let  the  gravy  in  the  pan  become 
boiling  hot  before  stirring  it  in  ;  then  stir  it  smooth, 
and  when  it  is  a  fine  rich  brown,  strain  it  into  the 
tureen,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

The  vegetables  most  proper  with  roast  beef  are, 
plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes,  with  boiled  spi- 
nach, beets  or  dressed  celery,  and  turnips  mashed, 
or  squash.  If  you  please,  pickles,  or  grated  horse- 
radish, may  also  be  served  with  roast  beef  instead 
of  spinach  or  cele^ry,  with  made  mustard  and  catsup 
in  the  castor. 

In  roasting  meat  it  should  be  so  placed  as  to  bring 
the  largest,  or  thickest  part,  nearest  the  fire.  In 
roasting  beef  its  juiciness  depends  on  the  frequency 
of  basting  it,  after  it  has  fairly  begun  to  roast. 

Bab^d  Beef.-ttA  fine  roasting  piece  of  beef 


82  BEEF  A-LA-MODE. 

may,  If  properly  managed,  be  baked  in  a  stove 
oven,  so  nearly  to  resemble  a  roast,  as  to  be  mista- 
ken for  it  : — 

Prepare  the  meat  as  for  roasting  ;  lay  some  muf- 
fin rings  or  a  trivet  in  a  dripping-pan,  set  the  meat 
on,  and  put  a  pint  or  more  of  hot  water  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan to  baste  with  ;  make  the  oven  hot — then 
put  in  the  meat :  close  the  oven,  and  when  it  be- 
gins to  roast  or  bake,  baste  freely,  (do  not  draw  out 
the  pan,  but  use  a  long-handled  spoon,)  every  fif- 
teen nrfinutes  until  it  is  done.  Should  the  meat 
seem  like  to  burn,  leave  open  the  oven  door;  add 
hot  water  to  the  pan  as  it  wastes,  that  the  gravy 
may  not  burn  ;  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound 
of  meat  to  cook,  unless  you  wish  to  have  it  very 
rare  ;  about  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done,  dredge 
wheat  flour  over  until  it  is  white  ;  then  baste  it 
freely  and  finish.  If  there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan, 
take  some  out;  take  out  the  rings  or  trivet,  shake 
from  the  dredging-box  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stii 
it  thoroughly  into  the  gravy  ;  then  add  a  teacup  of 
boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  strain  it 
through  a  gravy  strainer  into  the  tureen.  Serve 
the  same  ven^etables  as  with  roast  beef. 

o 

Beef  A-la-Mode. — Take  a  piece  of  the  round 
or  any  lean  piece  of  beef;  take  out  the  bone,  and 
fill  it  with  a  stuffins:  made  of  bread,  made  moist 
with  hot  water,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  a  bit  of  butter  or  chopped  suet ;  make  a  mix- 
ture of  a  tablespoonful  of  pepper,  same  of  salt,  and 
of  sweet  herbs  finely  powdered  ;  rub  the  seasoning 
well  into  the  meat ;  stick  cloves  over  the  whole 
surface  ;  tie  a  tape  around  it  to  keep  it  in  sha[)e  ; 
then  put  it  in  a  bake-pan  or  dinner-pot,  with  water 
nearly  to  cover  it,  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  cover  the  pot  as 
closely  as  possible  ,  let  it  simmer,  or  boil  gently, 


ROUND    OF    BEEF.  83 

according  to  its  weight,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  for 
each  pound  of  meat.  When  the  meat  is  tender, 
and  the  water  nearly  out,  dredge  flour  over  until  it 
is  white,  then  turn  it  over,  add  a  teacup  of  butter, 
and  a  minced  onion  oj;  leek  ;  cover  the  pot,  and  set 
it  nearer  the  fire,  to  brown  the  meat ;  scrape  a  car- 
rot and  cut  it  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
notch  the  edge  of  the  slices  neatly,  and  put  them 
in  a  stew-pan  with  boihng  water,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  ;  when  it  is  tender,  take  it  up  with  a  skim- 
mer; dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  into  boiling  water, 
cut  it  small  and  add  it  and  the  sliced  carrot  to  the 
meat :  after  having  turned  them  again,  let  them 
stew  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  take  the  meat  on  a 
dish,  take  off'  the  tape,  dredge  a  little  flour  to  the 
gravy,  add  a  small  teacup  of  boiling  water,  stir  it 
smooth  ;  then  pour  it  over  the  meat,  and  serve.  A 
glass  of  wine  or  vinegar  may  be  put  to  the  gravy 
instead  of  the  water,  or  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
tomato  catsup. 

Round  of  Beef — {French  Receipt.) — Parboil  a 
round  of  beef,  in  a  little  water,  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  take  it  up  and  put  it  into  a  deep  dish  ;  cut 
gashes  into  the  sides  of  the  meat,  that  the  gravy 
may  come  out ;  put  salt  and  pepper  into  every 
gash  ;  put  it  into  a  deep  dish  ;  fill  up  the  dish  with 
claret  wine  ;  set  it  over  a  chafing  dish  of  coals  ;  add 
two  or  three  blades  of  mace  ;  cover  it,  and  let  it 
stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  turn  the  meat  several 
times  ;  add  a  handful  of  pickled  capers  or  nastur- 
tion  buds,  w^ith  two  or  three  white  onions  or  leeks, 
cut  small,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  minced  fine  ; 
stew  all  together  until  the  meat  is  very  tender; 
toast  some  slices  of  bread  nicely,  cut  it  small,  put 
the  meat  on  them  and  pour  the  gravy  over. 


84  -       VEAL, 

>^  A    NICE    WAT    TO  SERVE   CoLD  Be  EF.— Cut  Cold 

roast  beef  in  slices,  put  gravy  enough  to  cover 
ihem,  and  a  wineglass  of  catsup  or  wine,  or  a  lemon 
sliced  thin  ;  if  you  have  not  gravy,  put  hot  water 
and  a  good  hit  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  or 
more  of  browned  flour  ;  put  it  in  a  closely  covered 
stew-pan,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
It  you  choose,  when  the  meat  is  down,  cut  a  leek 
in  thin  slices,  and  chop  a  bunch  of  parsley  small, 
and  add  it;  serve  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 
This  is  equal  to  beef  a-la-mode. 

Or,  cold  beef  may  be  served  cut  in  neat  slices, 
garnished  w^th  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  made  mus- 
tard, and  tomato  catsup  in  the  castor;  serve  mashed, 
if  not  new  j)otatoes,  with  it,  and  ripe  fruit,  or  pie, 
or  both,  for  dessert,  for  a  small  family  dinner. 

Veal. — Veal  should  not  be  kept  long  before 
dressing,  as  it  by  no  means  improves  by  keeping. 
The  loin  is  apt  to  taint  under  the  kidney.  When 
soft  and  slimy  it  is  stale  ;  it  will  be  cool  and  firm 
and  have  an  agreeable  smell  when  fresh. 

In  the  shoulder,  if  the  vein  is  a  clear  red,  it  is 
good.  When  there  are  any  yellow  or  dark  spots 
it  is  stale.  Tlie  breast  and  neck  when  good  look 
white  and  clear.    Veal  must  always  be  well  cooked. 

Such  as  are  not  judges  of  butchers'  meat,  had 
better  buy  of  one  person  on  whose  judgment  and 
honesty  one  may  reK'.  Be  wiUing  to  pay  a  fair 
price. — You  will  soon  find  that  the  best  articles  of 
marketing  have  a  uniform  price,  according  to  the 
season  of  it.  That  is,  the  same  cuts  of  the  best 
stock  will  be  found  to  sell  at  the  same  price  at  the 
same  season.  The  prices  of  poultr\%  lamb  and 
veal  varies  according  to  the  earliness  of  the  season. 

The  leg  of  veal  is  generally  boiled  or  made  soup 
of.     The  loin  also  may  be  boiled,  but  is  best  roast- 


calf's  head.  85 

ed,  or  cut  ir.  chops  and  broiled  or  fried.  The 
shoulder  may  be  roasted, — it  may  be  boned  and 
slufibd  and  then  roasted,  or  it  may  be  spUt,  after 
having  been  boned,  and  fried  or  broiled. 

The  breast  may  be  roasted,  stewed  or  broiled, 
or  made  a  pie. 

Steaks  are  cut  from  leg  or  shoulder.  The  neck 
or  scrag  may  be  cut  in  chops  or  fried,  broiled  or 
stewed  ;  or  a  dish  of  soup  may  be  made  of  it. 

CalPs  liver  is  cut  in  steaks,  and  fried  like  beef 
liver,  or  it  may  be  broiled  and  buttered. 

Veal  sweet-breads  are  roasted  with  the  breast, 
or  they  may  be  fried  or  stewed. 

CalPs  head  may  be  boiled  and  served  with  a 
sauce,  and  a  soup  made  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  is 
boiled. 

The  head  and  feet  are  used  for  making  jellies. 

j  To  Boil  Veal. — Put  it  in  hot  water,  (not  boil- 
ing,) to  cover  it,  put  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
cover  the  pot,  and  let  it  boil  very  gently,  taking  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises  ;  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each 
pound  of  meat  ;  four  pounds  of  meat  will  require 
one  hour  gentle  boihng.  Serve  boiled  veal  with 
drawn  butter,  or  oyster,  or  lemon,  or  parsley  sauce, 
^and  plain  boiled  potatoes,  with  pickles,  or  lettuce, 
or  celery.     Boil  the  loin  and  serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Calf's  Head. — Clean  it  very  nicely,  and  soak 
it  in  salt  and  water,  that  it  may  look  white,  (clean 
as  directed  for  beef  tripe,)  take  out  the  eyes,  take 
out  the  tongue  to  salt,  and  the  brains  to  make  a  little 
dish  ;  boil  the  head  very  tender,  and  serve  with  a 
sauce,  or  take  it  up,  put  bits  of  butter  all  over  it, 
dredge  w^ith  flour,  and  season  with  pepper  and 
finely  sifted  sweet  herbs,  if  liked  ;  set  it  in  a  hot 
oven  or  before  the  fire ;  baste   wdth  some  of  the 


86  '      calf's  head. 

water  in  which  it  was  bailed,  or  squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  over;  roast  it  a  fine  brown  ;  then  take 
it  on  a  hot  dish  and  put  a  tin  cover  over;  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  to  the  gravy  ; 
cut  a  small  lemon  in  thin  slices,  and  make  the  gravy 
Doiling  hot ;  add  them  to  it ;  let  them  fry  brown, 
then  put  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  a 
teacup  of  boil  ng  water  to  the  gravy,  and  serve, 
with  the  meat.  The  lemon  may  be  dispensed  with 
if  preferred — it  will  generally  be  liked. 

To  INIake  a  Dish  of  Calf's  Brains. — Wash 

them  in  salt  and  water,  then  boil  them  tender,  and 
take  them  in  a  dish  ;  put  butter  and  pepper  over, 
and  serve. 

Or,  after  washing  the  brains  in  salt  and  water, 
wipe  them  dry,  and  dip  them  in  wheat  flour,  or  into 
beaten  egg,  and  then  into  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  beef  dripping  ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  slices  of  lemon  fried,  if  liked. 

Calf's  Head  Cheese. — Boil  a  calf's  head  in 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  until  the  meat  leaves  the 
bones,  then  take  it  with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden 
bowl  or  tray  ;  take  from  it  every  particle  of  bone  ; 
chop  it  small  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  heap-, 
ing  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per will  be  sufficient ;  if  liked,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  finely  chopped  sweet  herbs ;  lay  a  cloth  in  a 
cullender,  put  the  minced  meat  into  it,  then  fold  the 
cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  plate  over,  and  on  it  a 
gentle  weight.  When  cold  it  may  be  sliced  thin 
for  supper  or  sandwiches.  Spread  each  slice  with 
made  mustard. 

Calf's  Head  (a  fine  Dish.) — Boil  a  calf's  head, 
(after  having  cleaned  it,)  until  tender,  then  split  it  in 


VEAL    SWEETBREADS.  87 

two,  and  keep  the  best  half;  (bone  it  if  you  like) 
cuj  the  meat  from  the  other  in  uniform  pieces,  the 
size  of  an  oyster ;  put  bits  of  butter,  the  size  of  a 
nutmeg,  all  over  the  best  half  of  the  head  ;  sprinkle 
pepper  over,  and  dredge  on  flour  until  it  looks 
white,  then  set  it  on  a  trivet  or  muffin  rings  in  a 
dripping  pan  ;  put  a  cup  of  water  into  the  pan  and 
set  it  in  a  hot  oven  or  before  a  hot  fire ;  turn  it  that 
it  may  brown  evenly ;  baste  once  or  twice.  Whilst 
this  is  doing,  dip  the  prepared  pieces  of  the  head 
in  wheat  flour  or  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
beef  dripping,  a  delicate  brown ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  slices  of  lemon,  if  liked.  When 
the  roast  is  done  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  fried 
pieces  around  it  and  cover  it  with  a  tin  cover  ;  put 
the  gravy  from  the  dripping  pan  into  the  pan  in 
which  the  pieces  were  fried,  with  the  slices  of  lem- 
on, and  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour,  and,  if  ne- 
cessary a  little  hot  water.  Let  it  boil  up  once, 
then  strain  it  into  a  gravy  boat  and  serve  with  the 
meat. 

The  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  will 
make  a  dish  of  soup,  by  adding  seasoning  and  veg- 
etables. 

^  Veal  Sausages. — Take  equal  quantities  of  veal 
and  fat  salt  pork,  chop  it  small,  season  with  pepper 
and  finely  chopped  herbs  if  liked  ;  mix  the  season- 
ing well  together  with  the  meat,  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  hang  it  in  a  cool  dry  place.  When  wanted 
for  use  flour  your  hands,  make  the  preparation  in 
small  cakes,  and  fry  in  a  little  hot  lard.  Serve 
with  boiled  vegetables. 

Veal  Sweetbreads. — Wash  them  in  warm 
water,  then  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  and   pour  boihng  water  over  lo 


88  "*  VEAL    CHOPS. 

cover  them  ;  let  them  boil  for  five  minutes,  then 
take  them  up,  wipe  them  dry,  and  dip  them  in 
rolled  cracker,  or  egg  batter,  or  wheat  flour,  and 
fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping.  Or,  instead, 
wet  them  over  with  beaten  egg,  then  dip  them  in 
rolled  cracker  until  they  will  take  up  no  more,  then 
fry  them  or  broil  on  an  oyster  gridiron,  (made  of 
coarse  wire.) 

/  Veal  Chops. — Cut  veal  chops  about  an  inch 
tnick ;  beat  them  flat  with  a  rolHng-pin,  put 
them  in  a  pan,  pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
and  set  them  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes  ;  then 
take  them  up  and  wipe  them  dry;  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  for 
each  pound  of  meat;  rub  each  chop  over  with  this, 
then  dip  them,  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  rolled 
crackers  as  much  as  they  will  take  up  ;  then  finish 
by  frying  in  hot  lard  or  beef  dripping ;  or  broil 
them.  For  the  broil  have  some  sweet  butter  on  a 
steak  dish;  bioil  tlie  cliops  until  well  done,  over  a 
bright  clear  fire  of  coals;  (let  them  do  gently  that 
they  may  be  well  done,)  then  take  them  on  to  the 
butter,  turn  them  carefully  once  or  twice  in  it,  and 
serve.  Or  dip  the  chops  into  a  batter,  made  of  one 
egg  beaten  with  half  a  tcacu[)  of  milk,  and  as  much 
wheat  flour  as  may  be  necessary.  Or  simply  dip 
the  chops  without  parboiling  into  wheat  flour  ;  make 
some  lard  or  beef  fat  hot  in  a  frying-pan ;  lay  the 
chops  in,  and  when  one  side  is  a  fine  dehcate  brown, 
turn  the  other.  When  all  are  done,  take  them  up, 
put  a  very  little  hot  w^ater  into  the  pan,  then  put  it 
in  the  dish  with  the  chops. 

Or  make  a  flour  gravy  thus:  After  frying  them 
as  last  directed,  add  a  tablespoonful  more  of  fat  to 
that  in  the  pan,  let  it  become  boiling  hot ;  make  a 
thin  batter,  of  a  small  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour 


VEAL    STEWED    WITH    VEGETABLES.  89 

and  cold  water  ;  add  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper 
to  die  gravy,  then  gradually  stir  in  the  batter,  stir 
it  until  it  is  cooked  and  a  nice  brown ;  then  put  it 
over  the  meat,  or  in  the  dish  with  it ;  if  it  is  thicker 
than  is  liked,  add  a  little  boiling  water. 

--.Veal  Chops  Stewed. — Rinse  the  chops  in 
cold  water,  and  rub  them  over  with  a  seasoning  of 
salt  and  pepper,  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  hot  water  nearly  to  cover  them  ;  cover  the 
pan,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  take  off  any  scum  which  may  have  risen  ; 
add  to  the  stew  a  piece  of  butter  with  flour  worked 
into  it — in  proportion,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  three  pounds  of 
meat.  Dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  into  boiling  water  ; 
cut  it  small,  then  add  it  to  the  stew  ;  stir  it,  ..in 
cover  it  and  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour  and  it  is 
done.  The  breast  of  veal  cut  small  with  a  bone 
in  each  piece,  may  be  stewed  in  this  way. 

Veal  Stewed  Brown. — Cut  three  pounds  of 
neck,  or  scrag,  or  loin,  into  pieces  with  a  bone  in 
each  ;  or  leave  it  whole.  Rub  each  over  with  a 
mixture  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  a 
dinner  pot  or  stew-pan,  with  nearly  enough  water  to 
cover  them  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gent- 
ly until  the  meat  is  tender;  then  skim  it  clear,  add 
to  it  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  cut  small ;  dredge 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  set  it  over 
a  fire  ;  let  it  brown  nicely  without  burning  ;  stir  it 
occasionally.  When  it  is  so,  add  a  teacup  of  boiling 
water  ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  serve  with  the  gravy. 
About  one  hour  will  be  required  to  make  this  stew. 

Veal  Stewed  with  Vegetables,  (Ragout.) — 
Wash  three  pounds  of  veal  in  cold  water,  then  cut 


90  ROAST    VEAL. 

it  small  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  water  nearly 
to  cover  it ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  ;  cover  the  stew-pan  and  let  it 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  then  skim  it  clear. 
Whilst  the  meat  is  stewing,  scrape  one  large  or  two 
small  carrots  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  notch  the  edges  and  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan  with  boiling  water  to  cover  them  and  set 
it  over  the  fire  until  they  are  tender  ;  dip  a  bunch 
of  parsley  into  boiling  water,  and  mince  it  fine  ; 
cut  a  leek  in  thin  slices  ;  pare  and  cut  six  small 
potatoes  in  halves  or  quarters,  then  take  the  carrot 
from  the  water  with  a  skimmer;  put  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sweet  butter  to  the  meat;  dredge  over  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  and  add  the  veg- 
etables ;  cover  the  stew-pan  and  let  it  stew  gently 
for  half  an  hour;  then  take  the  meat  on  a  dish, put 
the  vegetables  around  it,  pour  the  gravy  over,  and 
serve. 

To  Roast  Veal. — Rinse  the  meat  in  cold  water, 
if  any  part  is  bloody,  wash  it  off ;  make  a  mixture 
of  pepper  and  salt,  allowing  a  large  teaspoon ful  of 
salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  for  each  pound  of 
meat ;  wipe  the  meat  dr}^  ;  then  rub  the  seasoning 
into  every  part,  shape  it  neatly,  and  fasten  it  with 
skewers,  and  put  it  on  a  spit,  or  set  it  on  a  trivet 
or  muffin  rings,  in  a  pan  ;  stick  bits  of  butter  over 
the  whole  upper  surface;  dredge  a  hitle  flour  over, 
put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan  to  baste  with,  and 
roast  it  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven  or  reflector, 
or  put  it  into  a  hot  oven  ;  baste  it  occasionally,  turn 
it  if  necessary  that  every  part  may  be  done  ;  if 
the  water  wastes  add  more,  that  the  gravy  may 
not  burn  ;  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of 
meat ;  a  piece  weighing  four  or  five  pounds  will 
then   require  one  hour,  or  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 


VEAL    HASHED.  9J  ^ 

When  it  is  nicely  browned  and  done,  take  it  up ; 
add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  to  the 
gr^ivy,  dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  it 
smooth,  let  it  brown,  add  a  cup  of  boiUng  water  to 
it ;  then  strain  it  into  a  gravy-boat,  and  serve  with 
the  meat;  serve  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes  with 
t  he  meat,  with  such  green  vegetables  as  may  be 
liked. 

Veal  Roasted,  to  look  like  a  duck. — Bone  a  fine 
shoulder  of  veal,  rinse  it  in  cold  water,  and  rab  it 
all  over,  inside  and  out,  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and 
pepper  ;  then  make  a  stuffing  as  follows  :  cut  some 
slices  of  wheat  bread,  and  butter  them  freely  ; 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over,  and  make  them  moist 
with  hot  water  ;  with  this  fill  the  place  of  the  bone, 
then  draw  the  edge*  of  the  meat  together  under,  so 
as  to  form  it  in  the  shape  of  a  duck  or  fow^l,  and 
secure  it  with  skewers.  Then  set  it  on  a  trivet  or 
muffin  rings,  in  the  dripping-pan,  put  bits  of  butter 
all  over  the  surface,  put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in 
thcpan,  to  baste  with,  and  make  the  gravy.  Then 
put  it  in  a  Dutch-oven,  or  a  reflector,  before  the 
fire,  or  in  a  hot  stove  oven.  Baste  frequently,  that 
it  may  not  burn;  turn  it  about,  that  all  sides  may 
be  nicely  browned.  Just  before  it  is  done,  dredge 
a  little  wheat  flour  over,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter into  the  pan,  and  baste  freely  with  it  to  finish. 
Then  take  it  on  a  dish,  cover  it  with  a  tin  cover. 
Dredge  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy,  stir  it 
smooth  ;  then  add  a  teacup  of  boiling  water,  let  it 
boil  up  once,  stirring  it.  Then  strain  it  into  a  tu- 
reen and  serve  with  the  meat.  A  lemon  sliced 
thin,  and  fried  in  the  pan  after  the  meat  before 
making  the  gravy,  ma}^  be  served  in  the  dish  wuth 
the  meat  or  ^ravv. 

Plain  boiled  or  mash-ed  potatoes,  with  any  other 


92  VEAL    3PIE. 

•"■a-  ... 

vegetable  which  rnay  be  liked,  maybe  served  with 
roast  veal:  also,  pickles  of  any  kind. 

Veal  Hashed. — Cut  a  pound  of  cold  veal  small, 
season  it  to  taste  with  pepper  and  sail,  dredge  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour  over  it,  add  a  bit 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan, 
put  water  enough  to  make  it  moist ;  then  cover  it 
close  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  half  an  hour  ; 
stir  it  occasionaUy  ;  if  liked,  a  bunch  of  parsley 
may  be  cut  small  and  added  to  it ;  when  half  done, 
toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  delicately  brown, 
cut  it  in  small  squares  or  diamonds,  and  serve  the 
hash  on  it ;  for  breakfast.  A  glass  of  wine  may  be 
added. 

Veal  Mixced  with  Potatoes. — Chop  some 
cold  veal  very  fine,  put  to  it  an  equal  quantity,  or 
more  if  you  choose,  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chop- 
ped ;  also  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  add 
to  it  veal  gravy  or  hot  water  to  moisten  it,  and  a 
good  bit  of  butter  ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over,  stir  it 
all  togedier,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  over  a  mod- 
erate fire,  cover  it  close  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  it 
occasionally  ;  when  thoroughly  heated  it  is  done. 

Veal  Pie. — Cut  a  breast  of  veal  small,  and  put 
it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  hot  water  to  cover  it ;  add 
to  it  a  tablespoon ful  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  ; 
take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  when  the  meat  is  ten- 
der, turn  it  into  a  dish  to  cool:  take  out  all  the 
small  bones,  butter  a  tin  or  earthern  basin  or  pud- 
ding-pan, line  it  with  a  pie  paste,  (see  clam  pie,) 
lay  some  of  the  parboiled  meat  in  to  half  fill  it ; 
put  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  all  over 
the  meat ;  shake  pepper  over,  dredge  wheat  flour 
over  until  it  looks  white  ;  then  fill  it  nearly  to  the 
top  w^ith  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  meat  was 


VEAL    POT    PIE.  93 

boiled  ;  roll  a  cover  for  the  top  of  the  cn.-sf,  puff 
pnste  it,  giving  it  two  or  three  turns,  and  roll  it  to 
nearly  halfan  inch  thickness  ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  cen- 
tre, and  make  several  small  incisions  on  either  side 
of  it  ;  lay  some  skewers  across  the  pie,  put  the 
cnist  on,  trim  the  edges  neally  with  a  knife  ;  bake 
one  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  A  breast  of  veal  will 
make  tw^o  two  quart  basin  pies  ;  half  a  pound  of 
nice  corned  pork,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  parboiled 
with  the  meat,  will  make  it  very  nice,  and  very  lit- 
tle, if  any  butter,  will  be  required  for  the  pie  ;  whea 
pork  is  used,  no  other  salt  will  be  necessary. 

Potato  and  Veal  Pie. — Peel  and  cut  small 
some  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  cut  some  cold  veal 
small ;  put  some  of  the  meat  in  the  bottom  of  a 
baking-dish  or  tin  basin  ;  put  on  it  a  la3^er  of  pota- 
toes, sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  and  bits  of  but- 
ter;  then  another  layer  of  meat,  and  potatoes,  and 
seasoning,  and  so  continue  until  the  pan  is  nearly 
full ;  then  add  to  it  water  or  gravy  to  moisten  it ; 
cover  it  with  a  pie  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Veal  Pot  Pie. — Cut  a  breast  or  scrag  of  veal 
in  chops  or  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  dinner-pot 
with  water  to  cover  it ;  add  half  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  cut  in  thin  slices,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  salt ; 
let  it  boil  gently,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  un- 
til the  meat  is  tender,  then  take  it,  and  the  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled,  into  a  dish  to  cool ;  then  make 
a  common  pie-crust,  or  a  more  healthful  one  as 
follows : — Put  two  pounds  of  wheat  flour  into  a  deep 
dish,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  put  into  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  saleratus,  pow- 
dt.>red  fine  and  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  water ;  then 


94  calf's  feet  roasted. 

make  it  into  a  soft  dough  with  buttermilk  or  sour 
milk;  use  as  much  as  may  be  necessary;  wipe  the 
dinner-pot  dry ;  make  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  line  the  sides  only,  of  the  pot,  with  the  crust ; 
press  it  close  against  the  sides  of  the  pot ;  put  the  par- 
boiled meat  in  the  bottom ;  roll  out  the  paste,  reserve 
enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the  pot  pie,  and  cut  the 
remainder  in  small  squares  ;  strain  the  water  in 
which  the  meat  was  boiled,  and  put  it  in  the  pot ; 
if  there  is  not  enough  nearly  to  rQach  the  top  of  the 
side  crust,  add  water ;  drop  in  the  bits  of  paste  or 
dough,  dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  ; 
add  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  small,  unless 
pork  is  stewed,  with  the  meat,  when  half  as  much 
butter  is  enough  ;  put  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per ;  then  lay  some  skewers  across,  from  one  side 
crust  to  the  other,  and  put  on  the  top  crust;  make 
a  slit  in  the  centre  to  let  out  the  steam ;  cover  the 
pot  close,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  it ;  take  care  that  the 
fire  is  not  so  great  as  to  burn  it.  Half  a  dozen  small 
potatoes,  nicely  peeled,  may  be  put  into  the  pie  with 
the  meat. 

J[n  dishing  the  pot-pie,  take  the  top  crust  up  first, 
theri'take  up  the  meat  and  gravy  on  another  dish, 
and  lastly,  the  bro\vn  crust  from  the  sides,  on  a 
dish  with  some  of  the  gravy  over.  Or,  take  the 
meat  into  the  centre  of  the  dish,  put  the  crust  around 
it,  and  turn  the  grayy  over. 

Calf's  Feet  Roasted.— -Glean  calf's  feet,  and 
boil  them  just  tender,  then  let  them  cool.  Wheu 
cold,  rub  them  over  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  tie  them  on  a  spit;  baste  with  a  cup  of 
hot  water,  in  which  is  melted  two  ounces  of  butter, 
when  nearty  done  dredge  them  white  with  flour 
baste    freely,  and  let   them  finish.     When   nicely 


POJIK,    HAMS,    &C.  95 

brown,  ta^e  them  up,  add  a  cup  of  water  to  the 
gravy  in  the  dripping-pan,  put  to  it  a  tablespoonful 
of  browned  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  ;  stir  it  smooth,  then  strain  it  and  serve  in  a 
tureen  ;  or  instead  of  water,  use  port  wine  in  the 
gravy. 

Calf's  Feet  Stewed. — Clean  the  feet ;  divide 
each  one  in  two,  cover  with  water  and  boil  till  ten- 
der, then  finish  as  directed  for  veal  stew. 


PORK,  HAMS,  &c. 

To  Choose  Pork. — If  the  rind  of  pork  is  tough, 
and  thicl>,  and  cannot  easily  be  impressed  with  the 
finger,  it  is  old. 

If  fresh,  the  flesh  wdll  look  cool  and  smooth  ; 
when  moist  or  clammy  it  is  stale.  The  knuckle  is 
the  first  to  become  tainted. 

.Earir  is  often  what  is  called  measly,  and  is  then 
almost  poisonous ;  measly  pork  may  easily  be  de- 
tected ;  the  fat  being  full  of  small  kernels.  Swill 
or  still-fed  pork  is  not  fit  for  curing;  either  dairy  or 
corn  fed  is  good. 

Fresh  pork  is  in  season  from  October  to  April. 

In  cutting  up  a  large  hog,  it  is  first  cut  in  two 
down  the  back  and  belly.  The  chine  or  back- 
bone should  be  cut  out  from  each  side  the  whole 
length,  and  is  either  boiled  or  roasted.  The  chine 
is  considered  the  prime  part.  The  sides  of  the 
hog  are  made  into  bacon,  and  the  inside  or  ribs  is 
cut  with  very  littie  meat ;  this  is  the  spare  rib. 


96  SPARE-RIB. 

There  is  a  large  spare-rib  on  either  side,  which 
is  geaerall}^  divided  in  two,  called  a  sweet-bone 
and  a  blade-bone,  tliese  are  served  broiled. 

The  bacon  is  one  whole  side,  and  contains  a  fore- 
leg, and  a  ham,  which  is  the  hind  leg,  and  if  left 
with  the  bacon,  is  called  a  gammon. 

Hogs'  lard  is  made  of  the  inner  fat  of  the  bacon 
hog. 

Pickled  pork  is  generally  made  of  the  flesh  of 
hogs,  as  is  also  bacon  ;  porkers  are  not  as  old  as 
hogs,  their  flesh  is  whiter  and  less  gross,  but  not 
equally  tender. 

A  porker  is  usually  divided  into  quarters  ;  the 
fore-quarter  consists  of  the  spring  or  fore-leg.  The 
fore-loin  or  neck,  the  spare-rib,  and  griskin. 

The  hind  quarter  consists  of  the  leg  and  loin. 
The  feet  and  ears  may  be  used  in  a  variety  of  ways, 
and  should  be  cut  off  before  the  legs  are  cured. 
The  head  may  also  be  made  use  of  to  advantage, 
either  pickled  for  boiling  or  smoking,  or  roasted,  or 
baked,  or  made  head-cheese  of. 

The  bacon  hog  is  sometimes  scalded  to  take  ofl 
the  hair,  and  sometimes  singed.  The  porker  and 
roasting  pig  is  always  scalded,  and  the  hair  scraped 
off^. 

Fresh  pork  must  always  be  well  cooked,  it  is 
unpalateable  otherwise. 

Spare-Rib. — Broil  the  blade-bone  and  spare-rib 
nicely  over  a  bright  clear  fire  of  coals;  let  it  be 
well  done.  It  is  best  to  cover  it  whilst  on  the  grid- 
iron, as  by  so  doing  it  is  sooner  done  and  the 
sweetness  is  kept  in.  Put  the  inside  to  the  fire  first, 
and  let  it  be  done  nearly  through  before  turning  it ; 
when  done,  take  it  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  it  well, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  hot. 


HEAD    CHEESE.  97 

Head  Cheese. — Having  tlioronghly  cleaned  a 
hog's  head  or  pig's  head,  split  it  in  two  with  a  sharp 
knife,  take  out  the  eyes,  takeout  the  brains,  cut  off 
the  ears,  and  pour  scalding  water  over  them  and 
the  head,  and  scrape  them  clean.  Cut  off  any  part 
of  the  nose  which  may  be  discolored  so  as  not  to 
be  scraped  clean  ;  then  rinse  all  in  cold  water,  and 
put  it  into  a  large  kettle  with  hot,  (not  boiling)  wa- 
ter to  cover  it,  and  set  the  kettle  (having covered  it) 
over  the  tire  ;  let  it  boil  gently  taking  oft^  the  scum 
as  it  rises  ;  when  boiled  so  that  the  bones  leave  the 
meat  readily,  take  it  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer 
into  a  larn^e  wooden  bowl  or  tray,  take  from  it  every 
particle  of  bone  ;  chop  the  meat  small  and  seasoa 
to  taste  with  salt  and  [)epper,  and  if  liked,  a  little 
chopped  sage  or  thyme  ;  spread  a  cloth  in  a  cullen- 
der or  sieve  ;  set  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  put  the  meat 
in,  then  fold  the  cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  weight 
on  which  w^hich  may  press  equally  the  whole  sur- 
face, (a  sufficiently  large  plate  will  serve.)  Let 
the  weight  be  more  or  less  heav}^  according  as  you 
may  wish  the  cheese  to  be  fat  or  lean  ;  a  heavy 
weight  by  pressing  out  the  fat,  will  of  course  leave 
the  cheese  lean. 

When  cold,  take  the  weight  off;  take  it  from  the 
cullender  or  sieve,  scrape  off  whatever  fat  may  be 
found  on  the  outside  of  the  cloth,  and  keep  the 
cheese  in  the  cloth  in  a  cool  place,  to  be  eaten  sliced 
thin,  with  or  without  mustard,  and  vinegar,  or  cat- 
sup. 

After  the  water  is  cold  in  which  the  head  was 
boiled,  takeoff  the  fat  from  it,  and  whatever  may 
have  drained  from  the  sieve,  or  cullender,  and  cloth  ; 
put  it  together  in  some  clean  water,  give  it  one  boil  ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  ck)th,  and  set  it  to  become 
cold  ;  then  take  off  the  cake  of  fat.  It  is  fit  for  any 
use.  7  E 

■  .-  -  - % 


98  CURING    HAMS. 

Pork  Cheese,  Soused. — Clean  and  split  apig's 
head  and  boil  it,  till  the  bones  are  loose  ;  then  take 
it  up,  take  the  bones  carefully  from  it,  make  a  sea- 
soning of  salt,  pepper,  chopped  sage,  and  a  little 
ground  alspice,  and  mace,  if  liked  ;  cut  the  boned 
meat  in  slices,  sprinkle  each  with  the  seasoning,  and 
lay  them  together  in  a  cloth.  When  all  are  in,  fold 
the  cloth  closely  around  the  meat  and  lay  it  under 
a  gentle  weight. 

Take  of  the  water  in  which  the  head  was  boiled 
and  vinegar,  equal' parts.  Mix  them  together,  and 
put  it  over  the  meat,  to  cover  it.  This  will  keep 
good  for  months.  It  is  best  to  keep  the  cloth  folded 
about  it.  Slice  it  thin,  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  oi 
supper. 

Farmer's  way  of  Salting  Pork. — Cut  up  the 
pork,  strew  salt  on  the  bottom  of  the  pork  barrel  ; 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  pork,  edgeways  down,  strew 
it  plentifully  with  salt ;  then  another  layer  of  pork, 
salt  it  plentifully,  and  so  continue  until  all  is  in, 
strewjng  the  top  plentifully  with  salt ;  let  it  lie 
three  or  four  days  ;  then  make  a  salt  and  water 
brine,  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  and  pour  it 
over  the  meat,  and  lay  a  weight  on  it,  to  keep  it 
under  the  brine. 

To  Cure  ITams. — Take  one  ounce  of  saltpetre 
for  a  fourteen  pound  ham  ;  make  it  fine,  and  dis- 
solve it  in  a  little  molasses  ;  rub  it  well  over  the  cut 
side  of  the  meat,  and  around  the  bone,  and  over 
the  whole  ham.  Then  pack  them,  the  small  end 
down,  into  a  barrel  with  fine  salt  sprinkled  between 
and  over  them  ;  let  them  remain  for  two  or  three 
days  ;  then  make  a  cold  brine  of  salt  and  water, 
which  will  bear  an  egg,  and  cover  the  hams  with 
it.     After  three  weeks  they  are  fit  to  smoke,  or  they 


PORK    PICkLE.  9a 

may  remain  in  the  brine  three  months  without  in- 

Hams  cured  in  this  way  are  delicious,  and  keep 
well,  and  have  a  fine  red  color  when  cooked. 

Any  part  of  pork  may  be  salted  in  this  manner. 
The  cheeks  or  head  spht  in  two,  or  any  other 
pieces  for  boiling  or  smoking,  are  much  finer  in  this 
than  any  other  way  of  curing.  Beef  tongues  may 
also  be  done  in  this  manner.  This  pickle  wiD 
keep  pork  good  for  two  years  if  necessary. 

To  Smoke  Hams  or  Tongues. — Hang  hams  by 
a  string  through  the  small  end,  in  a  smoke-house, 
or  chimney  where  wood  is  burnt,  or  over  a  smoth- 
ered fire  of  sawdust  or  chips.  Let  them  hang  for 
ten  days. 

**  Hams,  Dry  Salted. — For  each  small  ham  of 
seven  pounds'  weight,  take  a  large  ta^lespoonful  of 
finely  pounded  saltpetre,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
molasses.  Mix  these  well  together;  then  rub  it 
well  over  the  cut  or  inside  of  the  ham,  and  around  ^^ 
the  bone  ;  make  a  place  with  your  finger,  and  in-  if^ 
sert  as  much  as  you  can  of  the  mixture  ;  then 
rub  the  ham  well  over  with  fine  dry  salt ;  repeat 
the  salt  every  fine  day,  until  it  has  been  done 
four  times ;  then  rinse  it  in  cold  water,  and  smoke 
it  for  ten  days.  Then  rub  black  pepper  around 
the  bone,  and  all  over  the  cut  side,  to  keep  the 
flies  from  it,  and  hang  the  hams  in  the  smoke- 
house, or  cover  them  with  coarse  canvass  ;  sew  it 
tightly,  and  whitewash  them.  Let  them  dry ;  then 
hang  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

An  Excellent  Pickle  for  Pork. — Nine  pounds 
of  salt,  coarse  and  fine  equal  parts,  to  six  gallons 
of  water,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  or  a  quart 


100  PORK  SAUSAGE5f. 

of  molasses,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  one 
ounce  of  saleratus.  Dissolve  the  snltpelrr  and 
saleratus  in  the  wnter;  then  add  the  salt,  and  put  it 
in  a  kettle,  and  boil  and  skim  it  clear;  then  put  it 
in  your  pickle  tub ;  when  cokl  it  is  fit  for  use. 

Always  keep  the  meat  under  the  brine,  by  means 
of  a  suitable  bit  of  board,  and  a  weight. 

Pork  for  boiling  should  be  laid  in  this  brine  for 
a  few  davs. 

Beef  may  be  put  m  the  brine  in  which  pork  has 
been,  but  it  will  not  do  to  put  pork  in  beef  brine  ; 
the  blood  from  the  beef  will  cause  the  pork  to  spoil. 

Hog's  Head,  Pickled. — Put  a  head  in  the 
pickle  above  mentioned,  for  three  or  four  days; 
then  take  it  out,  wash  and  scrape  it;  then  boil  it, 
and  finish  as  directed  for  head-cheese,  without  the 
salt,  or  like  soused  head. 

Sausage  Meat. — Take  of  pork  three-quarters, 
and  one  of  beef,  chop  it  fine,  put  fourouncesof  fine 
salt,  and  one  of  pepper,  to  every  ten  pounds  of 
nneat:  mix  the  seasoning  well  into  the  meat ;  then 

f)ut  it  in  small  muslin  bags,  tie  them  close,  ana 
lang  them  in  a  dr}',  cool  cellar.  When  wanted  for 
use,  cut  it  in  slices,  or  form  it  in  small  cakes,  flour 
the  outside  of  each,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Let  them 
be  nicely  browned.  Serve  with  boiled  vegetables. 
Fine  hominy  may  be  boiled,  and  served  with  them 
for  breakfast. 

Pork  Sausages. — Take  such  a  proportion  of  fat 
and  lean  pork  as  you  like ;  chop  it  quite  fine,  and 
for  every  ten  pounds  of  meat  take  four  ounces  of 
fine  salt,  and  one  of  fine  pepper  ;  dried  sage,  or 
lemon  thyme,  finely  powdered,  may  be  added  if 
liked  ;   a  teaspoonful   of  sage,  and    the   same   of 


PORK  SAUSAGE.  101 

ground  alspice  and  cloves,  to  each  ten  pounds  of 
meat.  Mix  the  seasoning  through  the  meat ;  pack 
it  down  in  stone  pots,  or  put  it  in  niushn  l)ags.  Or 
fill  the  hog's  or  ox's  guts,  having  first  made  them 
perfectly  clean,  thus,  empty  them,  cut  them  in 
lengths,  and  lay  them  three  or  four  days  in  salt  and 
water,  or  weak  lime  water  ;  turn  them  inside  out 
once  or  twice,  scrape  them  ;  then  rinse  them,  and 
fill  with  the  meat. 

If  you  do  not  use  the  skins  or  guts,  make  the 
sausage  meat  up  the  size  and  shape  of  sausages, 
dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  wheat  flour, 
or  rolled  crackers,  or  simply  into  wheat  flour,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  Turn  them,  that  ever}^  side  may 
be  a  fine  color.  Serve  hot,  with  boiled  potatoes  or 
hominy  ;  either  taken  from  the  gravy,  or  after  they 
are  fried,  pour  a  little  boiling  water  into  the  gravy 
in  the  pan,  and  pour  it  over  them  ;  or  first  dredge 
in  a  teaspoonfi.ll  of  wheat  flour,  stir  it  until  it  is 
smooth  and  brown  ;  then  add  a  little  boiling  water, 
let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  it  in  the  dish  with  the 
sausages. 

Chopped  onion  and  green  parsley  maybe  added, 
to  the  sausage  meat,  when  making  ready  to  fry. 

Or  sausage  meat  may  be  tied  in  a  muslin  bag, 
and  boiled,  and  served  with  vegetables ;  or  let  it 
become  cold,  and  cut  in  slices. 

Pork  Sausage  {to  cat  cold.) — Take  of  fat  and 
lean  equal  quantities,  and  put  them  in  a  pickle  or 
brine,  for  six  days.  Then  take  it  up,  chop  it  fine, 
have  some  leek  or  onion  chopped  fine,  and  put  it 
to  the  meat,  with  one  ounce  of  fine  pepper  to  ten 
pounds,  and  alspice  to  taste.  Have  ready  an  ox 
gut,  cleaned  as  directed  (they  may  be  kept  m  salt 
and  \vater  until  wanted,  when  they  must  be  soak- 
ed), fill  it  with  the  meat,  tie  both  ends,  wrap  it  in 


iO^  pig's  head  for  baking. 

a  fold  of  muslin,  and  hang  it  to  smoke,  the  same  as 
a  ham,  for  ten  days  or  a  fortnight.  It  is  eaten 
sliced  thin,  with  or  without  first  having  boiled  it. 
Rub  ground  ginger  or  pepper  over  the  outside  of 
them,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

To  Make  Bologna  Sausage. — Take  of  lean 
beef  and  pork',  each  three  pounds,  two  pounds  of 
fat  pork  or  bacon,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef 
suet ;  put  hot  w^ater  to  the  lean  meat,  and  set  it 
over  the  fire  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  cut  it  small, 
each  sort  by  itself,  shred  the  suet,  and  pork  or  ba- 
con, each  by  itself  Season  with  fine  pepper 
thyme,  and  ground  mace  ;  fill  ox  skins  with  it,  tie 
them  in  eight  inches  lengths,  and  put  them  in  a 
beef  brine- for  ten  days  ;  then  smoke  them  the  same 
as  ham  or  tongue.  Rub  ground  ginger  or  pepper 
over  the  outside,  after  they  are  smoked,  and  keep 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Or  rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil,  and  the  ashes 
of  vine  twigs. 

To  Prepare  a  Pig's  Head  for  Baking. — 
Clean  the  head,  and  split  it  open  ;  take  out  the 
brains  and  eyes,  wash  it,  and  rub  it  outside  and  in 
with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  it  on  a 
trivet  or  muffin  rings  (the  cut  side  of  the  head 
down),  in  a  dripping-pan  ;  put  a  pint  of  water 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven.  When  it  begins 
to  bake,  baste  it  with  the  water,  which  must  be  re- 
plenished according  as  it  wastes.  When  nearly 
done,  baste  with  butter,  and  finish  (about  one  hour 
will  be  required  for  it).  Take  it  up,  dredge  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  up  once, 
then  strain  it,  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Serve 
plain  b^>ileil  or  mashed  potatoes^  and  pickles,  and 


ROASTINa    PIG.  103 

stewed  apples,  or  cranberries  with  it.  Or  if  baked 
iti  a  brick  oven,  pat  bits  of  l)atter  over,  and  dredge 
it  quite  white  with  tiour,  before  patting  it  in  ;  have 
plenty  of  water  in  the  pan  ;  let  it  remain  in  the 
ovon   one  hoar;  then   make  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

To  ROAST  A  Pio. — Thoroughly  clean  the  pig, 
then  rinse  it  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  dry;  then  rub 
the  inside  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper,  and 
if  liked,  a  little  pounded  and  sifted  sage  ;  make  a 
stuffing  thus  :  cut  some  wheat  bread  in  slices  half 
an  inch  thick,  spread  butter  on  to  half  its  thickness, 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  if  liked,  a  little 
pounded  sage  and  minced  onion  ;  pour  enough  hot 
water  ov^er  the  bread  to  make  it  rnoist  or  soft,  then 
fill  the  body  with  it  and  sew  it  together,  or  tie  a 
cord  around  it  to  keep  the  dressing  in,  then  spit  it ; 
put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  put  into  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
let  the  lire  he  hotter  at  each  end  than  in  the  middle, 
put  the  pig  down  at  a  little  distance  from  the  fire, 
baste  it  as  it  begins  to  roast,  and  gradually  draw  it 
nearer,  continue  to  baste  occasionally,  turn  it  that 
it  may  be  evenly  cooked ;  when  the  eyes  drop  out 
it  is  done  ;  or  a  better  rule  is  to  judge  by  the  weight, 
fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat,  if  the  fire 
is  right. 

Have  a  bright  clear  fire,  with  a  bed  of  coals  at 
the  bottom,  first  put  the  roast  at  a  little  distance, 
and  gradually  draw  it  nearer;  when  the  pig  is 
done  stir  up  the  fire,  take  a  coarse  cloth  with  a  good 
bit  of  butter  in  it,  and  wet  the  pig  all  over  with  it,  and 
when  the  crackling  is  crisp  take  it  up ;  dredge  a 
little  flour  into  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  up  onre,  and 
Having  boiled  the  heart,  liver,  &c.,  tender,  and 
chopped  it  fine,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  give  it  one  boil 
then  serve. 


104  SAUCES  TO  PIG  OR  PORK 

To  Bake  a  Pig. — Prepare  a  pig,  as  for  roasting, 
and  lay  it  on  a  trivet  or  on  muffin  rings  in  a  drip- 
ping pan,  stick  bits  of  butter  all  over  it,  sprinkle 
pepper  and  salt  over,  and  dredge  some  flour  over : 
put  a  pint  or  more  of  water  in  the  pan,  then  set  it 
in  a  quick  or  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  when  nearly 
done  baste  w^ith  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and  close  the 
oven  to  finish  ;  then  take  it  up,  dredge  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  to  the  gravy,  set  it  over  the  fire  to 
brown,  stir  it  smooth  and  if  necessary,  add  a  little 
hot  water,  let  it  boil  up  once  then  strain  it  and  serve 
with  the  pig. 

Pig  to  roast  or  bake  may  be  stuffed  with  boiled 
potatoes,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
made, soft  with  a  cup  of  milk. 

To  MAKE  A  DISH  OF  THE  Harslet. — Having 
boiled  the  heart,  liver,  &c.,  in  water,  with  a  little 
salt  till  tender  chop  them  small,  add  a  good  bit  of 
butter  or  the  grav}'-  from  the  pan,  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  over  a  gentle  fire,  season  high  with  pepper  and 
salt,  dredge  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  until  it  is  hot,  then  serve  in  a 
side  dish  w^ith  the  pig. 

Roast  or  baked  pig  may  be  served  whole  it 
small,  or  lay  it  on  a  dish,  cut  of  the  head,  and  be- 
fore drawing  out  the  spit,  split  the  body  in  two 
from  head  to  tail,  lay  the  two  halves  together  on 
the  dish,  split  the  head  and  lay  a  half  on  either  side 
of  the  body  with  the  ears.  A  quarter  of  a  large  pig 
may  be  roasted  in  the  same  manner. 

Sauces  to  serve  with  roast  Pig  or  Pork. — 

Mashed  potatoes,  boiled  onions,  turnips  mas^hed, 

pickled   beets,  mangoes  or  cucumbers,  or  dressed 

celery  and  cranberrj^  sauce,  stewed  apples,  or  cur 

rant  jell3^ 


STEWED    FRESH    PORK.  105 

To  Roast  Pig  like  Lamb. — Take  tne  fore- 
quarter  of  a  large  roastino;  pig,  skin  it,  rub  it  well 
overwilli  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  chop- 
oed  nriint  if  liked,  then  roast  or  l):ike  it,  dredge  a 
little  flour  over,  and  baste  with  a  little  butter  about 
fifteen  minutes  before  taking  it  up — served  with 
mashed  potatoes,  etc.,  as  for  roast  pig. 

To  RoAsT  A  Loin. — Take  a  sharp  pen-knife 
and  cut  the  skin  across,  then  cut  over  it  in  the  op- 
posite direction  so  as  to  form  small  squares  or  dia- 
monds; rub  every  part  of  it  with  a  mixture  of  salt 
and  pepper,  put  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut  over  the  skin  side,  and  roast  or  bake  it — serve 
with  the  gravy,  boiled  potatoes  mashed,  turnips 
mashed,  and  dressed  celer}''  or  pickles,  and  tart 
apples  stewed  without  sugar. 

Leg-  of  Pork. — Prepare  it  the  same  as  a  loin, 
and  roast  or  bake  it. 

Pork  Tender  Loin. — This  part  of  pork  is  the 
most  delicate;  it  may  be  got  where  pork  is  cut 
up  for  packing  or  salting.  It  may  be  frier!  or  broiled, 
if  it  is  too  thick,  split  it  in  two.  Steaks  cut  from 
the  tender-loin  are  nice,  but  not  equal  to  the  tender- 
loin, which  is  cut  with  the  grain ;  steaks  are  cut 
across  it.     The  chine  of  pork  may  be  roasted  ? 

To  Stew  Fresh  Pork. — Cut  the  spare-rib  or 
any  other  lean  part  in  chops,  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  water  nearly  to  cover  them  ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  let  them  simmer  gently  for 
half  an  hour,  then  skim  them,  dredge  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flaur  to  about  two  pounds  of  meat ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  one  of  pepper, 
with    a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  stir  the 

seasoning  well  into  the  stew,  cover  it,  and  let  it 

E* 


106  pigs'  feet  soused — pie. 

simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  meat  is  ver}^ 
tender.  Serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes,  and  pic- 
kles or  dressed  celery. 

Or  potatoes  nvdy  be  pared  and  cut  in  qnarte?j«^ 
arid  stewed  with  the  meat;  put  them  in  with  tli'-^ 
seasoning,  and  cover  for  twenty  minutes.  ^^ 

Pigs'  Feet  Soused. — Scald  and  scrape  clean| 
the  feet ;  if  the  covering  of  the  toes  will  not  come  I 
off  without,  singe  them  in  hot  embers,  until  they 
are  loose,  then  take  them  off.  Many  persons  lay 
them  in  weak  lime  water  to  whiten  them.  Hav- 
ing scraped  them  clean  and  white,  wash  them  and 
put  them  in  a  pot  of  hot  (not  boiling)  water,  with  a 
little  salt  and  let  them  boil  gently,  until  b}^  turning 
a  fork  in  the  flesh  it  will  easily  break,  and  the  bones 
are  loosened.  Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When 
clone,  take  them  from  the  hot  water  into  cold  vine- 
gar, enough  to  cover  them  ;  add  to  it  one-third  as 
much  of  the  water  in  which  they  w^ere  boiled  ;  add 
\vhole  pepper  and  alspice,  w^ith  cloves  and  mace  if 
liked,  put  a  cloth  and  a  tight  fitting  cover  over  the 
pot  or  jar. 

Soused  feet  may  be  eaten  cold  from  the  vinegar, 
split  in  two   from  top  to  toe,  or  having  split  them, 
dip  them  in  wheat  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  broil 
and  butter  them.     In  either  case,  let  them  be  nicely  - 
browned. 

Pigs'  Feet  Pie. — Boil  the  feet  then  take  out  all 
the  large  bones,  cut  the  flesh  in  half,  line  a  buttered 
tin  basin  with  pie-crust,  and  put  it  half  or  one-third 
full  of  the  meat ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
bits  of  biitt'^^r  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut  over  the 
whole  surface  ;  dredge  flour  over,  until  it  looks  white, 
and  fill  nearly  to  the  top  with  water  ;  cover  with  a 
pie  or  puff  paste  crust ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle  ; 


BOILED    HAM.  107 

pinch  the  top  and  side  crust  neatly  together  at  the 
edge,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Serve  pickles  and  mashed  potatoes  with  thi^  pie. 
A  fine  pot-pie  may  be  made  of  pigs'  feet  in  the  same 
manner 

To  Choose  Hams. — Run  a  knife  or  skewer  in 
at  the  knuckle,  and  at  the  thickest  part  of  the  ham 
next  the  bone,  if  it  comes  out  clean  and  smells 
sweet,  the  ham  is  good.  If,  on  the  contrary,  the 
blade  of  the  knife  is  smeared  and  smells  rank  or 
strong,  it  is  not  good. 

To  Boil  Ham. — Wash  tlie  ham  in  cold  water 
two  or  three  times,  and  put  it  in  aketde  of  hot  (not 
boiling)  water  to  cover  it  ;  let  it  boil  gently,  accor- 
ding to  its  weight  (fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound)  it 
must  be  kept  slowly  boiling  all  the  time  ;  keep  the 
pot  coverecl  except  to  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises ; 
if  it  is  like  to  boil  over,  take  the  lid  partly of^'. 

Putting  meat  down  to  boil  in  cold  water  draws 
out  its  juices.  Hard  or  fast  boiling  makes  it  tough 
and  hard. 

When  it  is  done,  take  off  the  skin,  trim  off  the 
under  side  neatly,  and  put  spots  of  pepper  and  stick 
cloves  at  regular  intervals  over  the  whole  upper 
surface.  Or  dredgg  it  well  w^ith  wheat  flour  or 
rolled  crackers,  and  brown  it  in  a  hot  oven,  or  be- 
fore a  hot  fire.  Serve  hot  with  the  gravy  from  it, 
and  boiled  vegetables  ;  or  it  may  be  served  cold. 
Trim  Uie  bone  with  parsley,  or  the  delicate  leaves 
of  celery,  and  put  sprigs  of  the  same  around  it  on 
the  dish  ;  lemon  sliced  and  dipped  in  flour,  or  bat- 
ter and  fried,  may  be  laid  over  the  ham  and  on  the 
dish.  Mashed  potatoes,  stewed  apple,  or  cranberry, 
dresspd  celery,  or  boiled  spinach,  or  cauliflower  and 
mashed  turnips  are  served  with  hot  ham 


108  STEAV    OF    SMOKED    MEAT. 

With  cold  ham  serve  pickles  or  dressed  celery, 
or  both,  and  bread  and  butter  sandwich. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Pork. — Take  a  leg  of  pork 
which  has  been  in  pickle  for  three  or  four  days, 
soak  it  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  make  it 
*ook  white,  then  tie  it  in  a  nicely  floured  cloth,  and 
put  it  in  hot  water  to  cover  it.  Boil  the  same  as 
ham.  When  done,  take  a  small  sharp  knife,  and 
cut  through  the  skin  in  a  straight  line  about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  apart ;  put  spots  of  pepper  over  and 
serve  with  the  same  vegetables  as  for  ham  ;  or 
with,  mashed  potatoes,  turnips  mashed,  and  pickles 
or  tart  apr)les  stewed  without  sugar.  Currant  jelly 
or  cranberries  may  be  served  with  ham  or  leg  of 
pork. 

Pig's  Cheek — Is  smoked  and  boiled  like  ham 
with  vegetables;  boiled  cabbage  or  fried  parsnips 
may  be  served  with  it. 

To  Make  a  Stew  of  Smoked  Meat. — Cut 
slices  from  tlie  thin  part  of  a  smoked  shoulder,  or 
from  the  cheek — and  having  washed  them  in  cold 
water,  put  them  in  a  dinner-pot,  with  w^ater  nearly 
to  cover  it;  scrape  two  parsnips  and  cut  them  in 
slices  an  inch  thick;  pare  some  potatoes  and  cut 
them  in  two,  then  put  parsnips  and  potatoes  with 
the  meat,  and  add  pepper  to  taste ;  cover  the  pot, 
and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  that  it  may  brown 
nicelv  without  burning  ;  when  done  take  iip  the 
meat  and  vegetables,  dredge  in  a  litlle  wheat  flour, 
stir  it  about  until  it  is  brown,  tb.en  add  a  little  hot 
water  ;  stir  it  smooth,  and  serve  with  the  meat  and 
vegetables. 

Corned  or  pickled  pork  may  be  stewed  ii:^  the 
same  m.anner. 


BROILED    PORK    AND    CaCOX.  ,       109 

Pork  Chops,  Steaks  and  Cutlets. — Fry  or 
slew  pork  chops,  after  taking  off  the  rind  or  skin., 
the  same  as  for  veal. 

Cutlets  and  steaks  are  also  fried,  broiled,  or 
stewed,  the  same  as  veal. 

To  Fry  or  Broil  Salt  Pork  and  Bacon. — 
Cut  some  slices  from  corned  pork,  or  streaked  ba- 
con, (fat  and  lean,)  put  them  in  a  pan,  pour  boiling 
water  over,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  up 
once  ;  then  pour  the  water  off,  and  fry  them  in 
their  own  fat;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  if  liked,  a 
h'ttle  dried  sage,  or  thyme,  pounded  fine  ;  when 
both  sides  are  nicely  browned,  take  them  up,  put 
a  little  hot  water  or  some  vinegar  in  the  pan,  let  it 
boil  up  once,  and  put  it  in  the  dish  with  the  meat. 
Or,  having  fried  the  meat,  dredge  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  into  the  gravy  ;  while  it  is  hot,  stir  it  about ; 
then  add  a  little  hot  water,  stir  it  smooth,  and  pour 
it  into  the  dish  with  the  meat. 

To  Broil. — After  having  parboiled  the  slices 
with  plenty  of  water  in  the  pan,  lay  them  on  a 
gridiron,  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals  ;  sprinkle  a  lit- 
tle pepper  over  ;  when  both  sides  are  done,  put 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  little  butter  over  and 
serve.  Or,  whilst  broihng,  dip  the  slices  several 
times  into  a  dish  of  hot  water. 

Salt  pork  is  very  nice  fried  thus  : — Cut  it  in  thin 
slices,  put  them  in  the  frying-pan,  with  hot  water 
to  cover  them,  set  it  over  the  fire,  let  it  boil  up  once, 
then  pour  off  the  water,  shake  a  little  pepper  over 
the  meat,  and  fr^'-  it  nicely,  in  its  own  fat,  both 
sides  ;  then  take  it  up,  add  to  the  gravy  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  smooth  ;  then  put  to  it 
a  cup  of  milk,  stir  over  the  fir«  for  a  few  minutes, 


110  BROILED    HAM, 

» 

shake  pepper  over,  then  put  it  in  the  rlish  with  the 
meat. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  fliced  thin,  may  be  fried  in 
the  pan,  after  pork  or  bacon,  and  served  with  it ; 
parsnips  boiled,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  fried,  may 
also  be  served  with  fried  salt  meat. 

Or,  having  boiled  some  cabbage  or  spinach,  and 
pressed  all  the  water  from  it,  cut  it  small,  put  it  on 
a  steak  dish,  lay  the  fried  meat  on  it,  and  pour  the 
gravy  over.  Vinegar  is  generally  eaten  with  the 
vegetable. 

To  Fry  Ham. — Cut  some  fine  slices  from  the 
large  end  of  the  ham,  take  off  the  skin,  put  them 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  pour  hot  water  over  ;  set  it 
over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  pour  the 
water  off,  take  the  slices  up,  put  a  spoonful  of  lard 
in  the  fryin2:-pan,  and  let  it  become  hot;  dip  the 
sliv'es  in  rolled  cracker,  or  wheat  flour,  and  fry  them 
a  nice  brown ;  when  one  side  is  done,  turn  the  other, 
then  take  them  on  a  dish,  put  a  very  little  water  in 
the  pan,  let  it  boil  up  once,  put  it  over  the  meat. — 
Or,  if  a  flour  gravy  is  wanted,  make  a  thin  batter 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  cold  water,  and 
stir  it  into  the  gnivy  in  the  pan  ;  let  it  brown,  and 
if  too  thick,  put  a  little  hot  water  to  it ;  stir  it  smooth 
and  serve  with  the  rneat. 

To  Broil  Ham. — Cut  some  slices  of  ham,  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick,  lay  them  in  hot  water  for  half 
an  hour,  or  give  them  a  scalding  in  a  pan  over  the 
fire  ;  then  take  them  up,  and  lay  them  on  a  gridi- 
ron, over  bright  coals  ;  when  the  outside  is  brown- 
ed, turn  the  other  ;  then  take  the  slices  on  a  hot 
dish,  butter  them  freely,  sprinkle  pepper  over  and 
serve. 

Or,  after  scalding  them,  wipe  them  dry,  dip  each 


TO  MAKE  LARD  11 J 

slice  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  rolled  crackers, 
and  fry  or  broil. 

Ham  Gravy. — When  a  ham  is  almost  done  with, 
cut  off'  what  meat  remains  on  the  bone,  break  or 
saw  the  bone  small,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
hot  water  to  cover  it;  set  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  ;  then  strain  it,  add  a  lit- 
tle pepper,  and  fine  sage  if  liked,  dredge  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  add  a  bit  of  butter, 
stir  it  over  the  fire  lor  a  few  minutes  ;  then  having 
toasted  some  slices  of  bread,  a  nice  brown,  lay 
them  in  a  dish,  and  serve  the  gravy  over. 

Or,  serve  ham  gravy  with  boiled  vegetables. 

To  Make  Lard. — Take  the  leaf  fat  from  the 
inside  of  a  bacon  hog,  cut  it  small,  and  put  it  in  an 
iron  kettle,  w^iich  must  be  perfectly  free  from  any 
musty  taste,  set  it  over  a  steady,  moderate  fire,  un- 
til nothing  but  scraps  remain  of  the  meat ;  the  heat 
must  be  kept  up,  but  gentle,  that  it  may  not  burn 
the  lard  ;  spread  a  coarse  cloth  in  a  wire  sieve, 
and  strain  the  liquid  into  tin  basins,  which  will  hold 
two  or  three  quarts  ;  squeeze  out  ail  the  fat  from 
the  scraps. 

Wlien  the  lard  in  the  pans  is  cold,  press  a  piece 
of  new  muslin  close  upon  it,  trim  it  off'  at  the  edge 
of  the  pan,  and  keep  it  in  a  cold  place.  Or  it  may 
be  kept  in  wooden  kegs  with  close  covers. 

Lard  made  with  one-third  as  much  beef  suet  as 
fat,  is  supposeci  by  many  persons,  to  keep  better; 
it  is  better,  made  in  this  way,  cooking. 


312  SOUR    KRAUT* 


DIRECTIONS. 

For  Boiling  and  Servivg  Meat  with  Vegetables^  for 
Making  Succatash,  Sour  Kraut^  Cooking  Pork  and 
Beans,  ^'c.  ^c. 

Salt  Codfish  and  Potatoes. — Take  soaked 
dried  codfish,  a  quarter  of  a  fish ;  take  off  the  skin 
and  hang  it  to  dry — pare  a  dozen  or  more  fine 
large  potatoes,  wash  them  two  or  three  times  in 
cold  water,  and  put  them  into  a  dinner  pot,  lay 
such  a  portion  of  the  codfish  as  you  wish,  on  them, 
with  or  without  first  trying  it  in  a  cloth,  put  hot 
water  enough  to  cover  all ;  cover  the  pot  close,  and 
let  it  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ;  take  the 
potatoes  with  a  skimmer  into  a  covered  dish,  take 
the  fish  on  to  a  steak  dish,  and  garnish  with  hard 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  and  sprigs  of  green  pars- 
ley ;  serve  with  parsley  or  egg  sauce  over  the  fish 
and  in  a  tureen — serve  with  potatoes  and  pickles. 
Or  the  dish  may  be  served  in  this  manner:  mash 
the  potatoes,  make  them  very  moist  with  hot  milk 
and  a  large  bit  of  butter  ;  pick  all  the  bones  from 
the  fish  and  chop  it  fine,  then  put  them  tc)gether, 
and  pepper  to  taste  ;  make  it  in  a  roll  or  an}^  other 
form,  put  spots  of  black  pepper  over,  lay  slices  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  over,  and  sprigs  of  parsley  around 
it  on  the  dish,  and  serve  with  pickles. — Or  wet  the 
surface  over  with  a  little  butter  melted  in  hot  milk, 
and  brown  it  in  an  oven  or  before  llie  fire. 

To  make   Sour  Kraut. — Have  ready  a  vine- 
gar or  white  wine  cask,  about  four  inches  from  the 
bottom  have  a  vent  peg.     Take  a  number  of  the 
best  white  cabbages,  strip  off  all  the  outside  leaves 
^nd  slice  the  heads  transversely   or  across,  as  thin 


SOUR    KRAUT.  113 

as  poss^lile,  until  you  have  as  much  as  you  require, 
then  lay'^bver  the  bottom  of  the  cask  vine  twigs,  to 
the  height  of  the  peg ;  m  these  put  a  layer  of 
sliced  cabbage  three  inches  deep,  strew  it  plenti- 
fully with  fine  salt,  use  one  pound  of  salt  to  fifty  oi 
the  cabbage;  then  put  another  layer  of  cabbage, 
and  salt  and  cabbage  alternately  until  the  cask  is 
two-ihirds  full ;  let  the  last  layer  be  of  salt,  put 
cabbage  leaves  all  over,  cover  them  with  a  cloth 
and  a  piece  cf  wood  which  will  fit  the  inside  of  the 
cask,  and  place  a  heavy  stone  upon  it. 

After  four  or  five  days,  draw  out  the  peg,  and  let 
the  brine  run  off,  rinse  the  cloth,  wash  the  board 
and  stone,  add  more  salt  over  the  top,  and  replace 
cloth,  board  and  weight. 

Repeat  this  operation  at  intervals  of  not  more 
than  a  month,  so  that  what  flows  from  the  cask  is 
clear  and  free  from  smell. 

Keep  the  cask  in  a  moderate  temperature  during 
the  whole  year.  Take  it  from  the  cask  with  a 
wooden  spoon  or  fork. 

To  SERVE  Sour  Kraut. — Take  out  as  much 
sour  kraut  as  you  wish  from  the  cask,  and  soak  it 
for  at  least  two  hours  in  cold  water,  th^n  take  it  into 
a  cullender  to  drain  ;  put  it  into  a  large  stew-pan  or 
dinner-pot,  put  on  it  a  piece  of  corned  pork  or  bacon, 
and  put  hot  w^ater  over  nearly  to  cover  it ;  cover  the 
pot  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  for  an  hour  or 
more  until  the  pork  is  done — serve  with  the  meat 
on  it.  Or  cut  the  bacon  or  pork  in  slices,  strew  pep- 
per over  them,  lay  the  sour  kraut  on,  put  hot  water 
nearly  to  cover  i^  cover  the  pot  close  and  set  it  over 
a  moderate  fire  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Qr  it  may 
be  boiled  with  water,  and  fried  sausages  put  over 
it  and  served  ;  or  the  sausao^es  mav  be  boiled  with 
It,  and  the  ski^s  taken  oft,  before  serving. 


114  POACHED    EGGS    WITH    HAM. 

Ham  and  Eggs  fried. — Cut  some  nice  slices 
of  ham.  put  them  in  a  fo'ing  pan,  cover  them  with 
hot  water,  and  set  the^iu  over  the  fire,  let  it  boil 
up  once  or  twice,  then  take  out  the  slices  and  throw 
out  the  water,  put  a  bit  of  lard  hi  the  pan,  dip  the 
slices  in  wheat  flour  or  finely  rolled  crackers,  and 
when  the  fat  is  hot  put  them  into  the  pan,  sprinkle 
a  little  pepper  over;  when  both  sides  are  a  fine 
brown  take  them  on  a  steak  dish,  put  a  little  boil- 
ing water  into  the  pan,  and  put  it  in  the  dish  with 
the  meat. 

Now  put  a  bit  of  lard  the  size  of  a  large  egg  into 
the  pan,  add  a  saltsp(X)nful  to  it,  let  it  become  hot; 
break  six  or  eight  eggs  carefully  into  a  bowl,  then 
slip  them  into  the  hot  lard,  set  the  pan  over  a  gentle 
fire;  when  the  white  begins  to  set,  pass  a  knife 
blade  so  as  to  divide  an  equal  quantity  of  white  to 
each  yolk,  cut  it  entirely  through  to  the  pan  that 
they  may  cook  the  more  quickly;  when  done  take 
each  one  up  with  a  skimmer  spoon,  and  lay  them 
in  a  chain  around  the  edge  of  the  meat  on  the 
dish.     Fried  eggs  should  not  be  turned  in  the  pan. 

Spinach  boiled  and  pressed  free  from  water  and 
chopped  small,  may  be  put  on  the  centre  of  a 
steak  dish,  lay  the  fried  ham  on  it,  pour  the  gravy 
over,  place  the  fried  eggs  around  it..  Vinegar  may 
be  eaten  with  the  spinach. 

Poached   Eggs   with    fried    Ham. — Fry   the 

ham  as  above  directed,  take  a  clean  frying  or 
omlet-pan,  nearly  fill  it  with  boiling  water,  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire,  break  the  eggs  singly  intq  a  cup 
and  $lip  each  into  the  boiling  water,  cover  the  pan 
for  four  or  five  iningtes-=-^when  done,  take  them  up 
with  a  skimmer  (m  to  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  pe|)- 
per  and  salt  over,  add  a  smalj  bit  of  butter,  and 
serve  in  a  dish  or  oyer  the  hani. 


HAM    WITH    VEGETABLES.  }1S 

Pork  and  Beans. — Tnke  two  quarts  of  dried 
white  beans,  (the  small  ones  are  best,)  pick  out 
any  imperfections,  and  p#  them  to  soak  in  cohl 
water,  more  than  to  cover  them,  let  them  remain 
one  night  ;  the  next  day,  about  two  hours  before 
dinner  time,  throw  off'  the  water  ;  have  a  pound  of 
nicely  corned  pork,  a  rib  piece  is  best ;  put  the 
beans  in  an  iron  dinner-pot ;  score  the  rind  or  skin 
of  the  pork,  in  squares  or  diamonds,  and  lay  it  on 
the  beans,  put  in  hot  (not  boihng)  water  to  cover 
them,  add  a  small  dried  red  pepper,  or  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  cayenne  ;  cover  the  pot  close,  and  set  it  over 
a  gentle  tire  for  one  hour  ;  then  take  a  tin  basin, 
or  earthen  pudding-pan,  rub  the  inside  over  with  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  nearly  fill  it  with  the  boiled  beans, 
lay  the  pork  in  the  centre,  pressing  it  down  a  lit- 
tle ;  put  small  bits  of  butter  over  the  beans,  dredge 
a  little  flour  over  them,  and  the  pork,  and  set  it  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven,  for  nearly  one  hour. 
-  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked,  thus  :— 
Lay  a  nicely  fringed  small  napkin  on  a  dinner 
plate  ;  set  the  basin  or  pan  on  that,  turn  the  cor- 
ners of  the  napkin  up  against  it,  and  keep  it  in  place 
by  sprigs  of  green  parsley  or  celery  leaves  on  the 
plate  under  it,  and  so  continue  a  wreath  around  the 
dish,  concealing  the  pan  entirely.  Serve  pickles 
and  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 

If  liked,  the  beans  and  pork  may  be  boiled  for 
half  an  hour  longer,  and  served  without  baking; 
if  there  remains  any  over,  they  may  be  baked  an- 
other day,  or  they  may  be  served  cold. 

Ham  with  Vegetables — {afamihj  dhiner.)—^ 
After  boiling  a  small  ham,  or  part  of  a  large  one, 
take  it  up,  skin  it  and  set  it  in  a  dripping-pan,  or 
dish  ;  sprinkle  pepper  over,  dredge  flour  over,  and 
browp  it  in  a  hot  oven,  or  before  a  fire.     Boil  such 


116  SUCCATASH. 

vegetables  as  you  wish  to  serve  with  it,  in  the  liquor 
in  which  it  was  boiled,  first  skimming  off  the  fat  if 
there  is  much,  as  it  will  then  be  fit  for  frying  po- 
tatoes, parsnips,  or  other  vegetables;  if  cabbage  or 
turnips  are  served  with  boiled  meat,  they  may  be 
boiled  together  in  the  water  ;  if  spinach  or  parsnips 
are  served,  it  is  best  to  boil  the  potatoes  in  fair  wa- 
ter separately  ;  parsnips  give  out  their  flavor  too 
much,  and  spinach  discolors.     ^> 

If  parsnips  are  used,  after  boihng  them  tender, 
take  off  the  skins,  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  across  or 
lengthwise,  and  fry  them  in  hot  fat  to  a  nice  brown; 
when  one  side  is  done,  turn  the  other  ;  the  potatoes 
also,  may  be  fried ;  or,  having  been  boiled  done, 
put  them  in  the  pan  with  the  meat,  and  brown  them 
whole  ;  or  mash  them  with  milk  and  butter  ;  make 
them  in  a  neat  form,  and  brown  the  outside  before 
the  fire,  or  in  an  oven. 

Potatoes  to  serve  with  ham  or  tongue,  may  be 
boiled,  and  fried  in  slices,  or  whole,  thus  : — Put 
some  fat  in  the  pan,  and  let  it  become  hot,  or  fry 
some  slices  of  fat  pork,  put  in  small  sized  boiled 
potatoes,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over  ;  cover  the 
pan,  and  let  them  fry  rather  quickly,  turn  them 
when  one  side  is  done,  or  cut  them  in  slices  before 
frying.  Serve  them  around  the  meat,  on  the  same 
dish,  or  separately. 

The  appearance  of  a  boiled  dinner  may  be  great- 
ly improved,  by  the  manner  of  serving  up  the  vege- 
tables. 

SuccATASH. — Take  of  dried  sweet  corn  and 
white  beans — one  quart  of  dried  sweet  corn,  to  one 
or  two  of  beans. 

Put  the  beans  to  soak  in  a  basin,  with  water  to 
cover  them  ;  rinse  the  corn  in  co'd  water,  and  put 
them  in  a  basin  with  water  to  cover  it,  let  them  re- 


BOILED  CORNED  PORK  WITH  VEGETABLES.  117 

mam  until  the  next  day  ;  within  two  hours  of  din- 
ner time,  pour  the  water  from  the  beans,  pick  out 
any  imperfections,  and  put  them  with  the  corn,  with 
the  water  in  which  it  is  soaked,  into  a  dinner-pot ; 
cut  a  pound  of  nicely  corned  pork  in  thin  slices, 
put  it  to  the  corn  nnd  beans,  and  put  over  them  hot 
water,  rather  more  than  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  very 
small  red  pepper,  or  a  sahspoonful  of  cayenne,  and 
cover  the  pot  close  ;  set  it  where  it  will  boil  very 
gently,  for  an  hour'and  a  half,  then  put  it  in  a  deep 
dish  ;  add  a  bit  of  butter  to  it  and  serve. 

The  pork  may  be  scored,  and  not  cut  up,  if  pre- 
ferred, and  served  in  a  separate  dish. 

Dried  corn  and  beans  may  be  soaked  and  cooked 
in  this  manner,  without  the  pork  ;  when  taken  up, 
add  plenty  of  sweet  butter,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  arid  serve.  Lima  beans  are  the  best.  The 
small  white  kidney  bean  next. 

Fried  Sausages,  or  sausage-meat^  spinach,  or 
other  vegetable, — Make  hot  some  fat  salt  pork  slices, 
or  lard,  in  a  fryin^fy  pan,  and  fry  the  sausages,  or 
meat,  a  nice  brown ;  have  some  nicely  boiled 
spinach  or  cabbage,  pressed  free  from  water,  chop 
it  fine,  and  lay  it  on  a  steak  dish  ;  lay  the  fried 
sausages  in  it,  put  a  very  little  hot  vinegar  to  the 
gravy  in  the  pan,  and  pour  it  over. 

Water  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar  ;  the  vege- 
table is  most  generally  eaten  with  vinegar. 

Or,  serve  with  mashed  potatoes,  instead  of  spinach 
or  cabbage.  Sausage-meat  may  be  fried,  and  serv- 
ed in  the  same  manner  as  sausages. 

Hominy  boiled,  (see  p.  192.)  may  be  served  with 
fried  sausages.     This  is  a  favorite  Southern  dish. 

To  Boil  Corned  Pork  with  Vegetables. — 
Take  a  side  or  rib  piece  of  corned  pork,  put  it  in  a 
kettle  of  hot  (not  boiling)  water,  and  boil  it  gently^ 


118      CORNED  PORK  WITH  VEGETABLES 

according  to  its  weight,  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound  ;  cover  the  pot.  Cut  a  large  white  heart 
cabbage  in  four,  take  off*  the  outside  leaves,  and 
cut  the  stalk  close  down  to  the  head ;  wash  the 
quarters  in  cold  water;  examine  between  the  leaves 
that  there  are  no  insects  secreted  ;  hnlf  an  hour 
before  the  meatis  done,  take  off'  the  cover,  skim  it 
clear,  and  put  the  cabbage  in,  with  a  small  red 
pepper,  or  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  ;  press  the 
cabbage  down;  pare  a  dozen  fine  potatoes  of  equal 
size,  and  wash  them  in  two  or  three  waters,  and 
put  them  in  the  pot;  cover  it  and  let  it  boil  for  half 
an  hour,  then  takeout  the  meat, cut  the  skin  across 
in  squares  or  diamonds,  and  set  it  where  it  will  keep 
hot;  or  dredge  flour  over  it  and  set  it  before  the 
fire,  or  in  an  oven  to  brown.  Let  the  vegetables 
boil  for  quarter  of  an  hour  longer  ;  when  they  are 
done,  take  the  potatoes  in  a  dce[)  covered  dish,  put 
the  cabbage  into  a  cullender  and  press  out  all  the 
water,  and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish,  njaking  a  plat- 
form, and  lay  the  pork  on  it;  or  serve  it  on  a  deep 
dish,  and  the  pork  on  an  oval  dish. 

If  the  *pork  is  very  salt,  put  it  to  soak  in  cold 
water  one  night  before  boiling.  Savoy  cabbage  or 
spinach  may  be  used  instead  of  white  cabbage; 
fifteen  minutes  fast  boilini2:  will  be  enouii:li  for  either 
of  these. 

Potatoes  should  not  be  boiled  with  spinach,  as  it 
colors  them  green  ;  it  requires  so  short  time  boiling 
that  the  potatoes  may  be  boiled   before  it  is  put  in. 

Bacon  or  smoked  chops  or  shoulder  maybe  boiled 
in  the  same  manner. 

A  pickled  or  corned  tongue  may  be  boiled  in  this 
manner.  Skin  it  when  done;  sprinkle  pepper  over 
il ;  dredge  (lour  over  ;  put  bits  of  butter  over,  and 
set  it  in  an  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


CORNED  BEEF  AND  CABBAGE.  119 

To  Boil  Salted  or  Corned  Beef. — Wash  the 
orine  from  a  piece  of  corned  beef,  and  put  it  into  a 
pot  of  hot  (not  boiling)  water;  take  off  the  scum  as 
it  rises  ;  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of 
meat ;  then  try  if  it  is  tender ;  let  it  boil  gentl3^ 
When  it  is  done,  take  it  up  and  press  it  between 
two  plates. 

Cabbage,  or  spinach,  or  some  other  greens,  are 
generally  boiled  with  salt  beef;  put  down  the  beef 
in  time  that  it  may  be  done  before  it  is  time  to  boil 
the  vegetables,  and  set  it  to  press  whilst  the  vege- 
tables are  boiling. 

To  Prepare  the  Cabbage. — Take  off  the  dis- 
colored outride  leaves,  and  cut  each  head  in  four; 
look  well  between  the  leaves  to  see  that  no  insects 
are  secreted  ;  w^ash  the  quarters,  and  put  them  in 
the  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled  ;  set  it 
over  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  fast  for  three  quarters  of 
an  hour;  if  you  wish  the  potatoes  boiled  with  it, 
choose  large  equal  sized  ones,  and  put  them  in  with 
\he  cabbage  ;  when  they  are  done  take  the  potatoes 
into  a  covered  dish  ;  put  the  cabbage  into  a  cullen- 
der; press  out  all  the  water.  If  you  wish  to  have 
the  meat  hot,  after  pressing  it,  put  it  into  the  pot 
ten  minutes  before  taking  up  the  vegetables.  Serve 
the  cabbage  and  potatoes  in  covered  dishes,  and 
the  meat  on  an  oval  dish. 

The  Yellow  or  ruta-baga  turnip  is  much  liked 
instead  of  cabbage  ;  pare  off  the  thick  outside,  cut 
them  in  halves,  or  if  very  large,  quarter  them.  Boil 
same  length  of  time  as  for  cabbage.  Take  them 
up  and  serve  as  directed  for  cabbage  ;  or  mash 
them  fine,  and  smooth  w^ith  a  bit  of  butter  and  a 
little  pepper;  mash  the  potatoes  with  a  gill  of  hot 
milk,  and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Put 
potatoes  and  turnips  in  covered  dishes  ;  heap  them 


120  PARSNIP  STEW. 

high  in  the  centre;  smooth  over  the  surface  inflates 
with  a  knife  blade  meeting  in  the  centre,  as  a  com- 
mon point.  Take  a  pinch  of  fine  pepper  in  the 
fingers  and  put  it  over  the  whole  surface  in  spots. 
Put  the  meat  on  an  oval  dish,  and  vinegar  and 
made  mustard  in  the  castor. 

Thus  you  have  a  nicely  served  family  dinner,  to 
which  may  be  added  some  simple  dessert. 

A  boiled  Indian  pudding  is  both  appropriate  and 
healthful. 

Take  a  quart  of  sweet  yellow  cornmeal,  stir  it 
into  boiling  water,  and  a  teasj)oonful  of  lard,  w^ith  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  to  make  it  so  as  to  mould  in  the 
hands.  Make  it  in  balls  the  size  of  a  teacup, 
drop  them  in  the  pot,  and  let  them  boil  fast  for 
half  an  hour.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or 
syrup. 

Or,  put  to  the  meal  as  much  of  the  boiling  watec 
as  will  make  a  thick  batter  ;  add  a  large  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt;  stir  it  smooth,  and  tie  it  loosely  in  a 
pudding  bag,  put  it  in  the  pot  with  the  meat,  or  in 
fair  water  and  boil  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  a 
sauce  or  syrup. 

Parsnip  Stew. — Cut  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork  in  slices,  and  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal  in  bits; 
put  them  in  a  dinner  pot,  with  very  little  water. 
Scrape  some  parsnips,  and  cut  them  in  slices  an 
inch  thick;  wash  and  put  them  to  the  meat;  pare 
and  cut  six  small  sized  potatoes  in  halves.  Cover 
the  pot  close  and  set  it  over  a  bright  fire  for  half  an 
hour  ;  then  dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat 
flour,  add  a  small  bit  of  butter,  and  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  stir  it  in,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
to  brown  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  the  stew  into  a 
dish  and  serve. 


BROILED    BREAST    OF    LAMB.  121 


LAMB. 

To  Choose  Lamb. — The  veia  in  the  neck  of  a 
fore-quarter  of  lamb  will  be  a  fine  blue,  if  it  is 
fresh ;  if  it  is  of  a  green  or  yellowish  color,  it  is 
stale. 

The  hind-quarter  becomes  first  tainted  under  the 
kidney.  It  is  best  to  buy  of  a  respectable  butcher; 
let  him  choose  for  you,  and  you  secure  the  best  ar- 
ticle, at  his  recommendation. 

A  fore-quarter  includes  the  shoulder,  neck,  and 
breast. 

A  hind-quarter  is  the  leg  and  loin. 

The  pluck  is  sold  with  the  head,  liver,  heart  and 
lights.     The  melt  is  not  used  with  us. 

The  fry  contains  the  sweet-breads,  skirts,  and 
some  of  the  iiv*^r. 

Lamb  may  be  hashed,  stewed,  roasted,  fried,  or 
broiled,  or  made  in  a  pie,  the  same  as  veal. 

Harslet  Hashed. — Skin  the  head  and  boil 
it  with  the  liver,  heart,  &c.  When  tender,  cut  the 
meat  from  the  head,  and  chop  it  fine  with  the  other; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  dredge  it 
white  with  fiour,  and  put  it  to  a  cup  of  water,  to 
keep  it  from  burning  ;  put  it  over  a  moderate  tire, 
and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  until  thoroughly  heated ; 
then  serve  in  a  deep  dish  with  boiled  rice  or  hom- 
iny. A  bit  of  butter  may  be  added  before  taking 
it  up. 

To  Broil  a  Breast  of  LapvIB. — Have  a  clear 
bright  fire  of  coals  ;  when  the  gridiron  is  hot,  rub 
it  over  with  a  bit  of  suet,  then  lay  on  the  meat,  the 
inside  to  the  fire  first;  let  it  broil  gently  ;  when 
it  is  nearly  cooked  through,  turn  the  other  side  ;  let 

F 


122  LAMB    STEAKS    ATC  D    CURRAXT    JELLY. 

it  brown  niceW ;  put  a  good  bit  butter  on  a  steak 
dish  ;  work  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  small 
one  of  pepper  into  it;  lay  the  meat  upon  it;  turn 
it  once  or  twice,  ^nd  serve  hot. 

The  shoulder  maybe  broiled  in  the  same  m.anner. 
Let  the  fire  be  clear  and  bright,  but  not  scorching. 

Lamb  Stewed  with  Peas. — Cut  the  scrag  or 
breast  of  lamb  in  pieces,  and  put  it  in  a  stew  pan 
with  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Cover  the  stew-pan 
close,  and  let  it  simmer  or  stew  for  fifteen  or  tv/en- 
ty  minutes  :  take  ofT  the  scum,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  ;  cover 
the  stew-pan  and  let  them  stew  for  half  an  hour  ; 
work  a  small  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  stir  it  into  the 
stew ;  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pepper  ;  let  it 
simmer  tos^ether  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  new 
potatoes,  boiled.  A  blade  of  mace  may  be  added, 
if  liked. 

Lamb  Chop,  like  a  Crown, — Cut  a  loin  of  lamb 
in  chops  ;  rub  them  over  with  a  mixture  of  pe[)per 
and  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a  very  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Dip  them  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then 
dip  them  in  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard 
or  beef  dripping.  When  done,  place  them  like  a 
crown  ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  pan  ;  add  a  little 
pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  cut  small,  or  a  le- 
mon sliced  thin  ;  let  it  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour;  stir  it 
about;  then  put  to  it  a  tu\)  of  boiling  water;  stir 
it  over  the  fire  for  five  or  six  minutes  ;  then  pour  it 
inside  of  the  crown  and  serve. 

Lamb  Steaks  with  Wine  or  Currant  Jelly. 
•— Ruh  lamb  steaks  or  cutlets  over  with  a  luixture  o\ 


QUARTER    OF    LAMB    ROASTED.  123 

salt  and  pepper,  tlien  dip  ibem  into  beaten  ec^g,  and 
afterwards  into  rolled  crackers  or  wheat  flour;  pat 
of  lard  and  butter  each  a  tablespoonful  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan;  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  lay  in  the  steaks  or 
cutlets,  and  fry  them  gently  to  a  ni*ce  brown.  When 
one  side  is  done,  turn  the  other;  when  done, 
take  them  up,  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  a 
wine-glass  of  Port  or  Madeira  wine,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly  and  a  little  hot  water;  let 
it  bc^il  up  once,  then  pour  it  over  the  steaks  or  cut- 
lets and  serve.  Or  the  steaks  may  be  broiled  and 
the  wine  or  jelly  made  hot,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
put  over  them. 

Quarter  of  Lamb  Roasted. — Wash  a  quarter 
of  lamb  with  cold  water  ;  mix  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon ful  of  pepper, 
and  rub  it  well  over  every  part  of  the  meat ;  then 
spit  it  or  lay  it  on  muffin  i>:ngs  or  a  trivet  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan ;  put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan  to  baste 
with  ;  set  it  before  the  fire  in  a  dutch  oven,  or  re- 
flector, or  m  a  hot  stove  oven  ;  baste  very  often  after 
it  begins  to  roast ;  lay  it  so  that  the  thickest  part 
may  be  nearest  the  fire;  allow  fifteen  minutes  for 
each  pound  of  meat ;  baste  with  the  water  in  the 
pan  until  nearly  done  ;  add  more  as  it  wastes  ;  then 
put  to  it  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  baste  the 
meat  with  it ;  dredge  it  vvhite  with  flour  ;  stir  up 
the  .fire  to  brown  it. 

In  roasting  a  piece  of  meat,  set  it  at  a  little  dis- 
tance from  the  fire  at  first,  gradually  drawing  it 
nearer  to  finish  ;  take  care  not  to  scorch  it.  When 
done,  take  it  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  it  with  a 
tin  cover.  Set  the  dripping-pan  over  the  fire, 
dredge  a  tablespoonful  of  wdieat  flour  to  it;  stir  it 
smooth,  add  a  little  boiling  water  if  necessary  ;  stir 
the  gravy  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutesj  then  strain 


i24  QUARTER    OF    LAMB    FOR    BOILING. 

it  into  the  gravy  tureen,  and  serve  with  boiled  new 
potatoes,  stewed  peas  and  lettuce. 

In  making  the  gravy,  a  glass  of  Port  or  Madeira 
wine,  or  a  large  spoonful  of  red  jelly  dissolved  in 
water  may  be  substituted  for  the  water  and  flour. 

Lemon  sliced  thin  and  put  in  the  dripping-pan, 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  the  meat  is  done,  and 
served  as  a  garnish  for  the  meat,  is  much  liked — the 
leaves  of  a  bunch  of  green  mint  finely  minced  and 
moistened  with  vinegar,  with  the  addition  of  a 
spoonful  of  sugar,  is  sometimes  served  with  the 
lamb. 

Lamb  may  be  baked  in  a  hot  oven  nearh^  to  equal 
a  roast.  Have  the  oven  as  hot  as  possible  without 
burning,  and  baste  frequently. 

To  Prepare  a  Quarter  of  Lamb  for  Boil- 
ing.— Wash  a  quarter  of  lamb  in  cold  water  ;  then 
rub  it  all  over  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper  ; 
dredge  well  with  wheat  flour,  and  put  it  in  a  pot 
of  hot  (not  boilinir)  water;  cover  the  pot  and  let  it 
boil  gently,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound 
of  meat ;  take  oft'  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Serve 
with  boiled  potatoes  and  parsley,  or  drawn  butter 
sauce  ;  arwl  mint  sauce,  and  lettuce  dressed.  Break 
the  leaves  from  some  fine  white  heart  lettuce 
and  rinse  each  one  in  cold  water;  then  cut  them 
small;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  oil,  beat  them 
together  in  a  cup  ;  then  add  enough  vinegar  to  fiU 
a  cup,  and  pour  it  over  the  lettuce. 


OBSERVATCONS    ON    MUTTON.  125 


MUTTON. 

Observations  on  Mutton. — The  pipe  which 
runs  along  the  bone  inside  of  a  chine  or  saddle  of 
mutton,  must  be  taken  out.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  any 
length  of  time,  wipe  the  meat  .perfectly  dry,  and 
rub  pepper  over  it,  in  every  part.  Whenever  you 
find  any  moisture,  wipe  it  dry,  rub  it  with  pepper, 
and  dredo:e  fiour  over.  The  kernels  should  be  ta- 
ken  out  by  the  butcher. 

Mutton  for  roastins:  or  steaks  should  hano;  as  lon^ 
as  it  will  keep  without  tainting.  Let  it  hang  in  the 
air  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Pepper  will  keep  flies  from 
it.  The  chine  or  rib  bones  should  be  wiped  every 
day.  The  bloody  part  of  the  neck  must  be  cut  off. 
In  the  breast  the  brisket  changes  first.  In  the  hind 
quarter,  the  part  under  and  about  the  kidneys,  is 
first  to  taint. 

Mutton  for  stewing:  or  boilins:  should  not  be  so 
long  kept.     It  will  not  be  so  fine  a  color  if  it  is. 

The  lean  of  mutton  should  be  a  clear  red,  fine, 
close  grain,  and  tender  to  the  touch.  The  fat 
should  be  firm  and  white. 

Skewer  a  piece  of  letter  paper  over  the  fat  of 
mutton  whilst  roasting.  When  nearly  done,  take 
it  off. 

Steaks  are  cut  frorr;  the  leg.  Chops  and  cutlets 
are  cut  from  the  shoulder,  breast,  loin,  and  neck 
or  scrag. 

The  leg,  loin,  scrag,  or  breast,  may  be  stewed. 

if  the  leg  of  mutton  is  roasted,  serve  with  its  own 
gravy,  with  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  or  red  wine, 
made  hot  in  it. 

If  boiled,  serve  drawn  butter,  parsley,  or  mock 
caper  sauce,  with  tomatoes  stewed,  and  plain  boiled 


126  MOCK    VENISON. 

potatoes.  A  leg  of  mutton  is  better  for  boiling,  it 
laid  in  a  beef  pickle,  three  or  four  days  before  ii 
is  wanted. 

To  MAKE  Mutton  tajste  like  Venison. — Take 
a  fat  hind  quarter  of  mutton,  let  it  hang  several 
days — to  ten  pounds  of  meat,  take  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  rub  it  well  into  the  meat, 
tnen  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  the  same 
of  vinegar  ;  let  it  lie  in  this  four  or  five  days,  turn- 
ing it  every  Jay ;  then  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and 
wipe  it  dr}',  and  roast  it ;  or,  cut  it  in  steaks,  or 
chops,  and  fry,  or  boil  them,  or  make  it  a  pie. 

Sugar  gives  a  finer  flavor  to  the  meat,  than  does 
salt,  which  hardens  the  lean ;  sugar  is  a  great  pre- 
servative. 

Mutton  Pasty  to  eat  like  Venison. — Pre- 
pare the  mutton  as  above  directed  ;  take  a  loin,  and 
after  boning  it,  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin,  then 
w^ash  it,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  it  in 
a  deep  dish.  To  ten  pounds  of  meat,  take  one 
pound  of  sweet  butter,  spread  itJn  small  bits  over 
the  meat  ;  put  a  paste  crust  around  the  edge  of  the 
dish,  put  in  with  the  meat  a  gill  of  water,  and 
cover  with  a  pie  paste,  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  a  slit  in 
the  middle,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  two  hours 
and  a  half;  cover  the  paste  with  writing  paper, 
that  it  may  not  be  scorched. 

Put  the  bones  of  the  meat  in  two  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, with  a  little  salt,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and 
whole  pepper,  let  it  boil  slowlv  until  it  is  hfilf  re- 
duced, then  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  browned 
flour  ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  strain  it ;  when  tlie 
pie  is  done,  raise  the  crust  and  put  the  gravy  in. 

To  make  Mock  Venison. — When  the  sheep  is 


SHEEP    HARSLET    HASHED.  127 

killed,  save  the  blood  ;  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time 
until  it  is  cold,  that  it  may  not  congeal;  cut  the 
sheep  in  two,  take  one  side,  cut  the  leg  like  a 
haurxch,  cut  off  the  shoulder,  loin,  and  neck,  and 
breast,  and  steep  them  all  in  the  blood,  as  long  as 
the  weather  will  permit ;  then  take  the  haunch, 
hang  it  in  a  cool  dry  place,  as  long  as  it  will  keep 
sweet,  then  roast  it  like  venison. 

This  is  said  to  be  very  fine,  if  the  weather  is  so 
that  it  may  be  kept  several  days.  Take  off  the 
suet  before  putting  it  in  the  blood.  Take  the  other 
parts,  and  lay  them  in  a  large  deep  pan,  or  tray  ; 
lay  the  fat  side  downwards,  mix  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  vinegar,  with  a  quart 
of  red  wine,  pour  it  over,  and  let  it  lie  twelve  hours  ; 
then  take  the  neck,  breast,  and  loin  out  of  the 
pickle,  cut  them  in  chops,  and  broil  or  roast  them, 
or  make  a  pasty  of  them. 

If  it  will  keep,  let  the  shoulder  remain  in  the 
wine,  etc.,  for  a  week,  thcFi  put  it  in  a  beef  pickle, 
or  brine,  for  ten  da3^s,  and  smoke  it  like  beef.  To  be 
eaten  chipped  fine.  The  leg  or  haunch  may  be  done 
in  the  same  manner,  and  very  nearly  resembles 
venison  hams. 

Mutton  Hams. — These  are  cut,  corned,  smoked 
and  eaten,  the  same  as  smoked  beef,  or  venison  hams. 

Sheep  Harslet  Hashed. — When  you  cut  up 
the  sheep,  take  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights,  wash 
them  in  cold  w^ater,  then  boil  them  tender,  in  plenty 
of  water,  and  a  tablespoon ful  of  salt ;  take  off  the 
scum  as  it  rises;  then  chop  them  fine,  season  with 
pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  if  hked,  to  taste  ;  add 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  small,  and  enough 
hot  water  to  moisten  the  hash  ;  dredge  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  put  thb  whole  into 


128  HAUNCH    OF   MUTTON. 

a  stew-pan,  over  a  gentle  fire,  stir  it  frequently,  and 
when  it  is  thoroughly  heated,  take  it  up  ;  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  is  about  the  time  required  for 
it.     Serve  with  boiled  vegetables  and  pickles. 

Haunch  of  Mutton. — Keep  the  haunch  as  long 
as  you  can,  and  have  it  sweet,  wash  it  with  a  little 
vinegar  and  water,  before  dressing  it.  Before  put- 
ting the  meat  to  the  fire,  rub  it  all  over  with  a  mix- 
ture of  pepper  and  salt  ;  make  a  stiff  paste  of  wheat 
flour  and  water,  roll  it  thin,  and  put  it  over  the 
meat ;  have  a  large,  bright  fire,  and  set  the  meat 
at  a  little  distance  from  it,  (allow  fifteen  minutes 
to  each  pound  of  meat ;)  when  half  done  take  off 
the  paste,  draw  it  nearer  the  fire,  and  baste  freely, 
with  water  from  the  pan  ;  turn  it  so  that  every  part 
may  be  done  ;  half  an  hour  before  taking  it  up,  stir 
up  the  fire,  put  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  the 
pan,  baste  uith  it,  dredge  the  meat  white  with 
flour,  baste  again,  turn  the  m^at  over,  baste  freeh^, 
and  dredge  more  flour  over,  and  baste  again ;  the 
fire  must  be  bright  for  finishing.  When  done,  take 
it  up,  put  the  dripping-pan  over  the  fire,  cut  a  lem- 
on in  thin  slices  into  it,  dredge  in  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful  of  browned  flour,  stir  it  smooth  for  ten  minutes, 
then  strain  into  a  gravy  tureen,  and  serve  with  the 
slices  of  lemon.  Or,  instead  of  a  lemon,  put  a 
wineglass  of  port  wine  to  the  gravy. 

Boiled  potatoes,  asparagus,  or  spinach,  dressed 
celery,  and  currant  jelly,  is  served  with  roast  mut- 
ton. 

Putting  the  paste  over  the  meat,  keeps  in  its 
luices,  and  therefore  makes  it  sweeter.  A  gravy 
may  be  made  of  a  pound  of  the  loin  of  mutton,  cut 
small  and  simmered  in  a  pint  of  water,  till  reduced 
to  half;  salt  it  a  little,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  brown- 
ed flour,  and'a  little  pepper;  let  it  boil  up  once, 


MUTTON    CHOP    FRIED.  129 

then  strain  it,  and  serve  with  the  meat,  and  currant 
jelly. 

Mutton  Currte. — Take  a  fine  loin  of  mutton, 
take  off  all  the  fat,  cut  the  meat  small,  cut  some 
onions  small,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  ;  when  near- 
ly done,  put  in  the  meat ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
curry  powder,  to  each  pound  of  meat,  and  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  fry  gently ;  when  nicely  browned, 
put  to  it  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  put  it  into  a 
stew-pan;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an 
hour ;  then  serve  with  rice,  boiled  dry,  in  the  dish 
under  it,  or  in  a  separate  dish. 

A  curry  may  be  made  the  same  as  a  stew,  add- 
ing a  tablespoonful  of  the  powder  for  each  pound 
of  meat,  or  less,  if  preferred. 

A  Shoulder  of  Mutton. — Broil  a  shoulder  of 
mutton  over  a  clear  bright  fire  of  coals,  let  it  broil 
gently,  putting  the  inside  to  the  fire  first,  cover  it 
with  a  tin  ;  when  nearly  done  through,  turn  it ;  let 
it  brown  nicely ;  when  it  is  done,  take  it  on  to  a 
hot  steak  dish,  sprinkle  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  over  ;  butter  it 
freely,  turn  it  once  or  twice  in  the  seasoning,  turn 
the  inside  down,  cover  it  with  a  tin  cover,  and  serve 
hot,  with  boiled  hominy,  or  potatoes,  for  breakfast. 
The  shoulder  may  be  boned,  before  broiling. 

To  Broil  a  Breast  of  Mutton. — Parboil  a 
Dreast  of  mutton,  then  wipe  it  dry,  and  broil  it  as 
directed  for  shoulder. 

Mutton  Chop  Fried. — Cut  some  fine  mutton 
chops  without  much  fat,  rub  over  both  sides  with 
a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper,  dip  them  in  wheat 
flour  or  rolled  crackers,  and  frv  in  hot  lard  or  beef 


130  LEG    OF    MUTTON    BOILED. 

drippings,  when  both  sides  are  a  fine  brown,  take 
theai  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  wine-glass  of  hot  water 
in  the  pan,  let  it  become  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
browned  flour,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  the 
pan  with  the  meat.  A  tablespoonful  of  currant 
jelly  may  be  stirred  into  the  gravy,  or  a  wine-glass 
of  port  wine  instead  of  water.  Or  cut  a  lemon  in 
thin  slices,  take  out  the  pits,  and  fry  them  brown 
with  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  pan,  dredge  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  add  a  wine-glass  of  hot 
water,  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then 
serve  in  the  dish  with  the  meat. 

To  Broil  Mutton  Chop  or  Steak. — Rub 
each  over  with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt,  lay 
them  on  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals  ; 
when  done,  and  both  sides  a  fine  brown,  take  them 
on  a  dish,  butter  them  freely,  turn  them  once  or 
twice  on  the  dish,  and  serve  hot.  Or  before  put- 
ting the  chops  or  steaks  to  the  fire,  dip  them  first 
into  beaten  eggs,  then  into  rolled  cracker;  broil 
very  gently ;  put  peppe«r  and  salt  with  some  butter 
on  a  dish,  lay  the  broil  on,  turn  it  once  or  twice  in 
the  butter,  and  serve. 

Leg  of  Mutton  Boiled. — Wash  a  leg  of  mut- 
lon,  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and  wrap  it  in  a 
cloth,  then  put  it  in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  and  boil 
according  to  its  weight.  Serve  with  drawn  butier 
or  parsley  sauce,  with  boiled  vegetables  and 
pickles. 


VENISON   STEAKS   FRIED.  131 


VENISON. 

The  choice  of  venison  is  regulated  by  the  fat, 
which  when  young  is  thick,  clear  and  close.  As 
it  always  begins  to  taint  first  towards  the  haunches, 
run  a  knife  into  that  part,  if  it  is  tainted  you  will 
perceive  a  rank  smell,  and  it  will  have  a  greenish 
appearance.  If  you  wish,  you  may  keep  it  a  long 
time  by  careful  management — wash  it  well  in  milk 
and  water,  wipe  it  perfectly  dry,  till  there  is  not 
the  least  damp  remaining  on  it,  then  rub  ground 
pepper  or  ginger  over  every  part,  and  hang  it  in  a 
dry,  airy,  cool  place  ;  pepper  or  ginger  is  a  good 
preservative  against  the  fly. 

When  to  be  dressed,  wash  venison,  thus  kept  in 
lukewarm  water,  and  wipe  it  dry.  The  longer 
venison  is  kept  without  tainting,  the  sweeter  it  is. 

Venison  Steaks  Fried. — Cut  venison  steaks 
from  the  leg  or  loin,  half  an  inch  thick,  dip  theni  in 
rolled  crackers  or  wheat  flour;  make  of  lard  and 
sweet  butter  equal  parts,  or  beef  drippings,  half  the 
size  of  an  egg,  hot  in  a  frying-pan,  rub  the  steaks 
over  with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt,  cover  the 
pan  and  let  them  fry  quickly,  until  one  side  is  a 
fine  brown,  then  turn  the  other,  and  finish  frying 
without  the  cover  ;  take  care  that  they  are  not  over 
done,  then  add  to  the  gravy  a  glass  of  red  wine,  or 
a  wine-glass  of  hot  water,  wdth  a  tablespoonful  oi 
currant  jelly,  stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few^  minutes, 
then  put  it  in  the  dish  wath  the  meat,  and  serve  as 
hot  as  possible.  Steak  dishes  of  block  tin,  wiih 
heaters,  are  used  for  beef  or  venison.  Lean  steaks 
of  fat  beef  cooked  in  this  way,  are  equal  to  venison, 
for  which  the  beef  should  be  kept  till  ready  to 


IS2  VEXISON    ROASTED. 

taint,  then  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  ^vipe  them 
dry,  and  finish  as  directed  ;  the  steaks  should  be 
cut  small  like  venison. 

To  Broil  Venison  Steaks. — Let  the  gridiron  be- 
come hot,  rub  the  bars  with  a  bit  of  suet,  then  lay  on 
the  steaks,  having  dipped  them  in  rolled  crackers  or 
wheat  flour,  and  set  it  over  a  bright,  clear,  but  not 
fierce  fire  of  coals  ;  w^hen  one  side  is  done,  take  the 
steak  carefully  over  the  steak  dish,  and  hold  it  so 
that  the  blood  may  fall  into  the  dish,  then  turn  them 
on  the  gridiron,  let  it  broil  nicely  ;  set  a  steak  dish 
where  it  w^ill  become  hot,  put  on  it  a  bit  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  for  each  pound  of  venison,  put  to 
it  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  black  pep- 
per, put  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  current  jelh',  made 
liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  or  wine, 
lay  the  steaks  on,  turn  them  once  or  twice  in  the 
gravy,  and  serve  hot.  Or  they  may  be  simply 
broiled,  and  served  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
or  having  broiled  one  side,  and  turned  the  steaks, 
lay  thin  slices  of  lemon  over,  and  serve  in  the  dish 
with  the  steaks. 

To  Stew  Venison. — Cut  the  venison  in  steaks, 
put  some  bits  of  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  or  tin  pan, 
over  hot  coals  or  a  lamp;  w^hen  it  is  hot  lay  the 
steaks  in. season  w'ith  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  strew 
rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over,  add  to  it  a 
wdne-glass  of  port  wine,  cut  a  tablespoonful  of  cur- 
rent jelly  in  bits,  and  lay  it  over  the  steaks,  cover  it 
w'ith  a  tin  plate,  put  fire  on  it ;  when  the  steaks  are 
nicely  browned,  take  off  the  cover  and  serve. 
This  may  be  done  at  table. 

Venison  Roasted. — To  dress  a  haunch  ;  chop 
off  the  shank,  take  off  the  skin,  but  none  of  the  fat^ 


VENISON    PASTRY.  133 

then  put  it  evenly  on  a  spit,  make  a  paste  of  flour 
and  water,  roll  it  thin,  and  fold  it  around  the  veni- 
son, put  letter  paper  over  it,  and  secure  it  with  a 
packthread  ;  have  a  bright  steady  fire,  and  set  the 
roast  at  a  Uttle  distance  from  it ;  put  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter in  the  pan,  and  baste  occasionally,  (allow  fifteen 
minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat,)  turn  it  so  that  the 
fire  may  act  with  equal  force  on  every  part,  put 
the  largest  part  nearest  the  fire  ;  when  half  done 
take  ofi'  the  paste  and  paper,  draw  it  nearer  tne 
fire,  put  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  the  pan, 
with  a  glass  of  port  or  claret  wine,  add  pepper  and 
salt,  and  baste  the  meat  freely,  turn  it  that  every 
part  may  be  well  done ;  when  nearly  done,  dredge 
it  with  wheat  flour,  baste  and  dredge  again  ;  baste 
it  and  finish  roasting  ;  when  done,  add  currant  jel- 
ly to  the  gravy,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

Venison  may  be   roasted,  and   served  the   same 
as  beef,  or  with  a  spoonful  of  jelly  in  the  gravy. 

Venison  Pasty. — Bone  a  neck  and  breast  of 
venison,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cut  the  breast 
in  two  or  three  pieces,  lay  the  breast  and  neck  end 
first  ;  then  the  best  end  on  the  top  ;  make  a  good 
puff"  paste,  line  the  edge  of  a  baking-dish,  lay  the 
meat  in,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  butter^  cut  small, 
and  half  a  pint  of  w^ater  ;  then  put  an  inch  thick 
pa?te  crust  over,  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  lay  a  sheet 
of  letter  paper  over,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  quick 
oven  ;  w^hilst  the  pie  is  baking,  put  the  bones  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  down  to  half  that  quantity,  season  with  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  whole  pepper  ;  when  nearly 
done,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour , 
Btir  it  together  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  it ; 
naif  an  hour  before  the  pie  is  done,  take  it  out 
raise  txhe  crust,  put  the  gravy  in,  and  replace  the 


134  VENISON    SAUCE. 

crust ;  cut  some  leaves  of  paste  rolled  thin,  orna- 
ment the  edge  and  slit  in  the  centre,  with  a  wreath 
of  these,  or  put  a  paste  flower  in  the  centre,  and 
finish  baking.     Serve  currant  jelly  with  it. 

Venison  pie  may  be  made  the  same  as  directed 
for  veal,  and  baked  in  the  same  manner. 

A  Pretty  Dish  of  Venison. — Cut  a  breast  of 
venison^in  steaks,  make  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter hot,  in  a  pan,  rub  the  steaks  over  with  a  mix- 
ture of  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  dip  them  in  wheat 
flour,  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  a  rich  brown  ; 
when  both  sides  are  done,  take  them  up  on  a  dish, 
and  put  a  tin  cover  over;  dredge  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour  into  the  butter  in  the  pan,  stir  it  with  a 
spoon  until  it  is  brown,  without  burning,  put  to  it 
a  small  teacup  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  currant  jelly  dissolved  into  it,  stir  it  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  strain  it  over  the  meat  and  serve. 

A  glass  of  wine,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar  dissolved  in  it,  may  be  used  for  the  gravy, 
instead  of  the  jelly  and  water. 

Venison  may  be  boiled,  and  served  with  boiled 
vegetables,  pickled  beets,  etc.,  and  sauce. 

Venison  Sauce. — Haifa  pint  of  port  wine  made 
hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  the  same 
of  currant  jelly,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  a 
large  egg. 


ROAST  CHICKEN.  136 


POULTRY.  GAME,  &c. 

In  clioosing  poultry,  the  best  way  to  determine 
whether  it  is  young,  is  to  try  the  skin  under  the 
leg  or  wing  ;  if  it  is  easily  broken,  it  is  young  ;  or, 
turn  the  wing  backwards ;  if  the  joint  yields  readily, 
it  is  tender;  a  fat  fowl  is  best  for  any  purpose.  ^ 

After  a  chicken  or  fowl  is  killed,  plunge  it  into 
a  pot  of  scalding  hot  w^ater  ;  then  pluck  off  the 
feathers,  taking  care  not  to  tear  the  skin  ;  when  it 
is  picked  clean,  roll  up  a  sheet  of  white  wrapping 
paper,  set  fire  to  it,  and  singe  off  all  the  hairs. — 
Poultry  should  be  carefully  picked,  and  nicely 
singed. 

If  a  fowl  is  fresh  killed,  the  vent  will  be  close, 
and  the  flesh  have  a  pleasant  smell. 

For  Roasting. — Bruise  the  bone  of  the  leg  close 
to  the  foot,  and  draw  out  the  string  from  the  hips ; 
cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck,  pass  your  finger 
ai'ound  the  front,  and  draw  out  the  crop,  turn  back 
the  skin,  and  cut  off*  some  of  the  neck,  leave  skin 
enough  to  turn  over  and  fasten  at  the  back.  Cut 
off"  the  vent,  cut  a  slit  from  the  end  of  the  breast 
bone  to  it,  and  draw  out  the  entrails,  taking  care 
not  to  break  the  gall;  no  washing  will  take  off  the 
bitter  where  it  has  touched ;  cut  the  entrail  at  the 
vent  loose ;  break  the  back  bone  that  it  may  lay 
flat  on  the  dish  when  served ;  rinse  the  cliicken  in* 
side  with  cold  water,  and  wipe  it  dry,  then  rub  it 
over  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper.  Prepare 
the  stuffing  as  follows  : 

Cut  two  or  three  slices  of  wheat  bread,  spread 
It  thickly  with  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  if  liked,  a  little  powdered  thyme,,  make  it  wet 


136  BOILED    FOWL    OR    CHICKEN. 

with  milk  or  water,  and  fill  with  it;  take  two  or 
three  stitches  with  a  coarse  thread  and  needle  to 
draw  the  slit  together  and  keep  the  dressing  in, 
turn  the  Jegs  close  to  the  sides  and  run  a  wire 
skewer  through:  run  another  skewer  through  the 
joint  of  the  wing,  and  through  the  body  to  the  other 
wing,  and  after  taking  the  gall  from  the  liver,  and 
the  inside  from  the  gizzard,  wash  them  and  put 
them  between  the  pinions  and  body ;  or  parboil 
ihem  and  chop  them  fine  for  the  grav3^  The 
chicken  or  fowl  is  now  trussed  for  roasting.  Black 
footed  poultry  should  never  be  chosen  for  boiling ; 
for  roasting  they  are  as  good. 

For  Boiling. — The  apron  or  lower  part  of  the 
body  must  be  slit  at  the  sides,  and  the  legs  put 
through  ;  cut  a  slit  across  to  take  out  the  entrails 
and  take  out  the  crop,  take  care  that  it  does  not 
break,  and  so  part  of  it  remain  in,  to  your  lasting 
disgrace  ;  turn  the  wings  over  against  the  back. 
To  the  stuffing  of  a  fowl  for  boihng,  may  be  added 
half  a  pint  of  small  oysters  ;  season  well  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt ;  or  a  bunch  of  parsley  chopped 
may  be  put  to  the  dressing.  A  full  grown  fowl  is 
best  for  boiling. 

Boiled  Fowl  or  Chicken. — Having  trussed 
^nd  stuflTed  a  fowl,  dredge  it  well  with  wheat  flour, 
then  put  it  into  a  pot  of  hot  water,  cover  it  close, 
and  let  it  boil  gently,  according  to  its  weight  and 
age  ;  an  old  fowl  may  boil  twice  as  long  as  a  young 
one  ;  allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  for  a  full 
grown  fowl ;  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Serve 
with  plain  l)oiled  or  mashed  potatoes,  and  drawn 
butter,  parsley  or  oyster  sauce. 

Pickles  and  dressed  celery  are  served  with 
boiled  fowls  ;  also  mashed  turnips,  boiled  aspara- 


ROAST    FOWL    OR    CHICKEN.  137 

gus,  and  cauliflower.     Boiled  ham  or  tongue,  or 
corned  beef,  is  generally  served  with  boiled  fowls. 
An  old  fowl  is  fit  for  nothing  but  soup. 

To  Roast  a  Fowl  or  Chicken. — Have  a 
bright,  clear,  and  steady  fire  for  roasting  poultry ; 
prepare  it  as  directed;  spit  it,  put  a  pint  of  hot 
water  in  the  dripping  pan,  add  to  it  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pepper; 
baste  frequently,  and  let  it  roast  quickly,  without 
scorching  ;  when  nearly  done,  put  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  large  egg  to  the  water  in  the  pan,  when 
it  melts,  baste  with  it,  dredge  a  little  flour  over, 
baste  again,  and  let  it  finish ;  half  an  hour  will 
roast  a  full  grown  chicken,  if  the  fire  is  right. 
When  done  take  it  up,  let  the  giblets  (heart,  liver, 
and  gizzard,)  boil  tender,  and  chop  them  very  fine, 
and  put  them  in  the  gravy,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  stir  it  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve  in  a  gravy  tureen. 
Or  put  the  giblets  in  the  pan  and  let  them  roast. 

Mashed  potatoes,  tomatoes  stewed,  mashed 
turnips,  (ruta-baga  or  yellow  are  best,)  dressed 
celery,  or  lettuce,  and  pickles  and  mangoes,  are 
served  with  roast  fowls.  Also  currant  jelly,  stewed 
apples,  or  cranberry  jam. 

A  fowl  may  be  roasted  in  a  hot  stove  oven,  so  as 
to  be  nearly  as  fine  as  before  the  fire  ;  baste  freely 
and  often,  and  finish  as  directed  for  roasting  before 
the  fire ;  put  muffin  rings  on  a  trivet  in  the  drip- 
ping pan,  and  lay  the  fowl  on,  rub  the  outside  over 
with  pepper  and  salt,  put  bits  of  butter  over,  dust 
it  lightly  with  flour ;  have  a  pint  of  water  in  the 
pan,  let  the  oven  be  well  heated,  and  baste  often; 
make  the  gravy  as  before  directed,  be  sure  to  have 
enough  water  in  the  pan,  that  the  gravy  may  not 
burn  ;  add  hot  water  as  it  wastes. 


138  FRICASSEED     CHICKENS. 

To  Stew  or  Fricassee  Chickexs. — Cut  off 
the  feet,  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  hip,  cut  off  the  wings 
close  to  the  body,  take  out  the  entrails ;  pass  the 
knife  close  to  the  breast  bone,  up  the  sides  to  the 
wings,  dividing  the  body  in  two,  cut  the  back  in 
two,  (flatten  each  piece  with  a  heavy  stroke  of  the 
rolling  pin  or  potato  beetle,)  make  another  incision 
close  to  the  top  of  the  breast  bone,  taking  off  what 
is  called  the  wish  bone,  with  the  meat  attached. 
This  is  for  a  full  grown  chicken,  and  is  the  proper 
way  to  carve  a  roast  fowl. 

Rinse  the  pieces  jn  cold  water,  take  the  giblets 
(heart,  liver,  and  gizzard,)  from  the  entrails,  with 
the  fat,  split  the  gizzard,  peel  it  from  the  gravel 
bag,  and  cut  it  in  halves,  wash  them  all,  and  put 
them  with  the  chicken  into  a  stew-pan,  with  hot 
water  nearly  to  cover  them  ;  add  to  it  a  small  tabie- 
spoonfulof  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  peppe/,  cover 
it  close,  and  set  it  to  boil  very  gently,  take  off  any 
scum  as  it  rises ;  when  tender,  for  a  full  grown 
chicken,  take  a  teacup  of  butter,  (or  two  ounces,) 
work  into  it  a  small  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour, 
then  add  it  to  the  stew,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley 
washed  and  cut  small,  cover  the  slew-pan  for  fifteen 
minutes,  let  it  simmer  gently,  and  serve. 

Lay  nicely  toasted  thin  slices  of  bread  on  a  steak 
dish,  put  the  back  and  breast  of  the  chicken  on 
first,  and  the  other  parts  arerund  it,  and  put  the 
gravy  over ;  egg  balls  may  be  added  to  the 
stew. 

Half  a  pound  of  nicely  corned  pork  cut  in  thin 
slices,  and  stewed  with  the  chicken,  is  liked  by 
manv  persons  ;  in  that  case  no  other  salt  will  be  re- 
quired, and  only  half  as  much  butter.  A  blade  of 
mace  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning,  if  liked.  Half 
an  hour  or  three  quarters  will  be  required  for 
stewing  chickens,  an  hour  for  a  large  fowl. 


i 


BROILED    FOWLS.  139 

Mashed  potatoes,  or  boiled  new  potatoes  and 
lettuce,  or  dressed  celery  and  pickles,  to  be  served 
with  this  stew. 

Chicken  Currie. — Stew  the  chicken  as  direct- 
ed above,  adding  to  the  seasoning  a  tablespoonful 
of  currie  powder  for  a  small  chicken. 

Have  some  nice  boiled  chicken  dry,  put  it  on  a 
dish,  and  serve  with  the  currie  over.  (See  currie 
powder  page  198.) 

To  Broil  Chickens  or  Fowls,  {Like  a  SteaJc.) 
— Cut  off'  the  vent,  cut  a  slit  in  the  apron,  (below 
the  breast  bone,)  and  draw  out  the  entrails  ;  take  out 
the  crop;  cut  the  neck  short;  take  off'  the  wings, 
and  split  the  chicken  nearly  in  two,  passing  the 
knife  from  the  vent  up  each  side  to  the  wing  joints, 
but  do  not  cut  it  apart ;  then  spread  it  out  flat,  break 
the  back  and  breast  bone  with  a  stroke  of  the  po- 
tato beetle,  or  rolling-pin,  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  grid- 
iron over  a  bright  fire  of  coals  ;  put  the  inside  to 
the  fire  first ;  put  a  tin  cover  over  it,  and  let  it  broil 
rather  quickl}^  until  nearly  cooked  through  ;  then 
turn  it,  stir  up  the  coals,  and  let  it  finish  without 
the  cover.  When  it  is  nicely  browned,  take  it  on  a 
steak  dish,  butter  it  freely;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  (a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  pepper) 
turn  it  once  or  twice  in  the  gravy ;  serve  it  hot, 
with  the  inside  down  ;  having  also  broiled  the  wings, 
lay  them  on  either  side  of  the  body.  Or  a  chicken 
may  be  carved  as  for  table,  or  as  described  for  a  stew. 

Small  young  chickens  are  sometimes  split  up  the 
back  and  spread  out,  or  cut  in  two  at  the  breast  and 
back. 

There  is  a  way  of  preparing  a  chicken  for  broil- 
ing called  a  spread  eagle.  Cut  the  chicken  open  at 
the  back,  take  out  the  entrails,  and  crop,  and  flatten 


140  CHICKEN    PIE. 

the  breast  bone,  and  turn  the  wings  outward.  Let 
it  broil  slowly  with  a  cover,  until  thoroughly  done, 
then  brown  the  outside,  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Covering  it  whilst  broiling  keeps  the  steam  in, 
w^jich  makes  it  more  juicy,  and  cooks  it. 

To  Fry  Chicken  or  Fowl. — Cut  up  the  chick- 
en as  for  stewing  or  fricassee;  make  some  lard  or 
beef  dripping  hot  in  a  frying  pan,  rub  each  piece 
over  with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt ;  dip  them 
in  wheat  flour  or  finely  rolled  cracker,  and  put  them 
in  the  pan,  (the  cut  side  down)  cover  them  and  let 
them  fry  rather  quickly  until  it  is  a  fine  brown, 
then  turn  the  other  side  ;  leave  off  the  cover  and 
brown  it  nicely  ;  when  done  take  them  up,  add  a 
bit  of  butter  to  the  pan,  with  a  very  little  hot  wa- 
ter, and  put  it  in  the  dish  with  the  chicken. 

Chickens  may  be  fried  with  butter  only;  but  it 
is  apt  to  make  them  too  dark  colored  ;  lemon  sliced 
thin,  and  browned  in  the  pan  after  the  chickens, 
may  be  served  in  the  gravy  if  liked  ;  or  dredge  a 
little  wheat  flour  into  the  hot  fat ;  stir  it  about  with 
a  spoon,  then  add  a  wineglass  of  hot  water;  stir  it 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  it  in  the  dish. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  off  the  legs  and  vent,  cut  a 
slit  and  take  out  the  entrails  ;  cut  off  the  hips,  ancf 
cut  it  in  two  at  the  leg-joint,  cut  off  the  wings  with 
as  much  flesh  attached  as  possible  ;  split  the  body 
up  the  sides,  cut  the  back  in  two  and  flatten  the 
bone ;  cut  the  sma^  bone  from  the  upper  part  of 
the  breast,  with  some  of  the  meat,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  and,  unless  the  chickens  are  very  young,  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  water  to  cover  them  ;  add 
a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  or  half  a  pound  of 
corned  pork ;  cut  in  thin  slices ;  add  a  saltspoonful 


>^ 


CHICKEN    POT-PIE.  141 

of  pepper ;  cover  the  stew-pan  and  let  them  boil 
slowly,  until  tender  ;  skim  it  clear. 

Make  a  paste  crust,  or  as  directed  for  pot-pie  ; 
rub  butter  over  the  sides  of  a  pudding-pan  or  tin 
basin,  and  line  it  with  the  paste  rolled  to  quarter  of 
an  inch  thickness  ;  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken, 
and  pork,  if  it  is  used  ;  put  in  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  egg  ;  cut  it  small.  If  pork  is  not  used,  take 
twice  as  much  butter  ;  dredge  flour  over  until  it  is 
white  ;  then  put  in  the  water  from  the  stew-pan  ;  if 
there  is  not  enough  to  fill  nearly  to  the  top  of  the 
pie,  add  more  water;  roll  out  a  paste  or  puff  paste 
crust ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  ;  make  three  or  four 
small  incisions  on  either  side  of  it ;  lay  skewers  across 
the  pie  ;  lay  the  crust  over ;  trim  off  the  edges  and 
bake  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderately- 
hot  oven  ;  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done, 
brush  the  top  of  the  pie  with  the  yolk  of  egg  beaten 
with  a  little  milk,  and  finish  baking.  Serve  mashed 
potatoes  and  pickles,  with  meat  or  chicken  pies. 

The  edge  of  the  pie  may  be  ornamented  with 
leaves  cut  with  a  tin  cutter,  from  sheets  of  paste ; 
put  them  on  twenty  minutes  before  it  is  done  ba- 
king. One  full-grown  chicken  will  make  two,  two 
quart  basin  pies. 


Chicken  Pot-Pie. — Take  a  full  grown  chicken 
or  fowl;  cut  it  as  for  stewing  or  pie;  rinse  it  in 
cold  water,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  hot  water 
'to  cover  it ;  add  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  in 
thin  slices,  if  liked,  or  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
let  it  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour,  (unless  it  is  a 
young  chicken,  when  it  need  not  be  parboiled,)  take 
ofi'  the  scum  ;  make  a  pie  or  pot-pie  crust ;  make 
it  rather  more  than  half  an  inch  thick  ;  line  the 
sides  only  of  a  dinner-pot;  (if  it  extends  too  low 
down  it  will  burn ;)  put  the  meat  in  the  bottom , 


142  CHICKEN    PATTIES. 

take  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  and 
cut  it  in  small  bits,  put  it  over  the  meat ;  not  half  as 
much  butter  will  be  required  if  pork  is  used ;  dredge 
it  white  with  flour  ;  put  in  the  water  from  the  stew- 
pan,  and  if  it  does  not  reach  nearly  to  the  top  of 
ibe  crust,  add  more  hot  water;  lay  skewers  across 
the  top  ;  roll  out  the  paste  ;  reserve  enou,2:h  to  co- 
ver the  pie  ;  cut  the  remainder  in  small  squares  and 
drop  them  in  the  pie;  then  put  on  the  top  crust; 
cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  and  cover  the  pot.  Set  it 
over  a  moderate  fire,  to  boil  gently  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour;  then  take  a  fork  and  try  the  top 
crust ;  if  it  is  done  take  the  pie  up. 

The  side  crust  should  be  about  four  or  five  inches 
wide,  and  if  a  large  pie,  reach  nearly  to  the  top  of 
the  pot,  that  there  may  be  plenty  of  gravy. 

To  Dish  a  Pot  Pie. — Take  up  the  top  crust, 
with  some  of  the  gravy,  take  the  brown  crust  from 
the  sides  on  to  a  steak  dish,  then  take  the  chicken 
on  it,  put  gravy  over  it  and  serve.  Pickles  and 
mashed  potatoes,  are  served  with  pot  pie. 

Chickens  Scolloped. — Mince  some  cold  chick- 
en, without  the  skin  ;  make  it  wet  with  gravy,  or 
hot  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  to  the 
minced  meat  of  one  chicken,  put  two  ounces  of  but-^ 
ter,  cut  small. 

Rub  tin  scolloped  pans  over  with  butter,  strew 
rolled  crackers  over,  put  the  minced  chicken  in, 
strew  rolled  crackers  over,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour ;  when  done,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish. 
Serve  with  dressed  celery  pr  pickles. 

Chicken  Patties. — Prepare  a  cold  roast,  or 
boiled  fowl,  as  for  scolloped  chicken  ;  line  a  but- 
tered tin  plate  with  a  rich  pie  paste,  put  the  mince 


TITEKEYS.  143 

in,  and  cover  with  a  puff  paste  crust,  cut  a  slit  in 
the  middle,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  ;  or  make  it  in  small  patty- 
pans, and  bake  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  pickles. 

Cold  lamb  or  veal  may  be  minced  and  done  in 
the  same  manner. 

A  few  minutes  before  they  are  done,  brush  them 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  with  a  little 
milk,  and  finish ;  this  is  called  gilding. 

A  Chicken  Salad. — Take  a  fine  white  bunch  of 
celery  (four  or  five  heads),  scrape  and  wash  it  white  ; 
reserve  the  delicate  green  leaves ;  shred  the  white 
part  like  straws,  lay  this  in  a  glass,  or  white  china 
dish,  in  the  f(»rm  of  a  nest.  Mince  all  the  white 
meat  of  a  boiled,  or  w^iite  stewed  fowl,  without  the 
skin,  and  put  it  in  the  nest. 

Make  a  salad  dressing  thus  : — Rub  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  salad  oil,  or  melted  butter ;  add  to 
.it  two  teaspoonsful  of  made  m.ustard,  and  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  put  to  it  grad- 
ually (stirring  it  in),  a  large  cup  of  strong  vinegar. 

Make  a  wreath  of  the  most  delicate  leaves  of  the 
celery  around  the  edge  of  the  nest,  between  it  and 
the  chicken ;  pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken, 
Avhen  ready  to  serve  ;  if  the  dressing  is  poured  over 
too  soon,  it  will  discolor  the  celery. 

White  heart  lettuce  may  be  used  for  the  nest  in- 
stead of  celery. 

Turkeys. — ^To  choose  a  turkey,  follow  the  direc- 
tions for  choosing  chickens ;  a  hen  turkey  is  more 
plump  and  round,  and  is  best  for  boiling. 

A  turkey  should  be  young  full  grown  and  fat. 

The  most  highly  esteemed  mode  of  dressing,  is 
roast  or  boil. 


144  ROAST    TURKEY-. 

Turkeys  may  be  stewed,  and  if  young,  fried  oi 
broiled,  the  same  as  chickens. 

Roast  and  boiled  turkeys  are  favorite  holiday 
dishes ;  turkeys  are  roasted  or  boiled  the  same  as 
fowls. 

Roast  Turkey. — Get  afine  plump  turkey,  cut  off 
the  vent,  cut  a  slit  from  the  end  of  the  breast  bone  to 
it,  take  out  the  entrails,  take  care  not  to  break  the 
gall  on  the  liver  :  should  the  gall  break  on  the  liver, 
it  must  be  thrown  away,  no  washing  will  take  off* 
the  bitter  ;  take  off  the  feet,  and  bruise  the  bone 
close  to  the  foot,  and  draw  out  the  string  from  the 
leg ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck,  pass  your 
finger  around  in  front,  and  draw  out  the  crop  ;  cut 
the  neck  short,  leave  skin  enough  to  fasten  over 
against  the  back  ;  wash  the  inside  with  cold  water, 
wipe  it  dry  ;  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  rub  the  inside  well  with  this, 
and  also  the  place  of  the  crop  ;  make  a  stuffing  aa 
follows  : — 

Cut  slices  of  wheat  bread,  pour  hot  water  or 
milk  over,  to  wet  them  ;  to  half  a  sixpenny  loaf, 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  and' a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  sage,  or 
thyme,  if  liked  ;  fill  the  body  with  some  of  this  ; 
sew  up  the  slit  with  a  strong  thread,  and  coarse 
needle  ;  put  enough  of  the  dressing  in  the  crop  to 
make  it  look  full,  then  draw  the  skin  of  the  neck 
over  the  back,  and  fasten  it  with  a  skew^er,  turn 
the  legs  close  to  the  body,  and  run  skewers  through 
each  hip  joint,  and  with  a  strong  thread,  tie  the 
ends  of  the  legs  together  ;  rub  the  outside  over  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  evenly  on  the  spit ;  put 
a  pint  of  hot  water  in  the  pan  to  baste  with,  (add 
more,  according  as  it  wastes,)  roast  it  according  to 


ROAST    TURKEY.  145 

its  weight,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound 
of  meat. 

The  fire  must  be  bright  and  clear,  and  sirong; 
though  not  fierce  ;  if  the  turkey  is  large,  set  it  at  a 
little  distance  from  the  fire  at  first,  let  one  side  be 
put  to  the  fire  first,  then  turn  the  other,  basting  it 
freely  with  the  water  in  the  pan  ;  the  hips  require 
the  longest  time  to  cook  ;  gradually  turn  the  turkey 
and  baste,  so  that  every  part  may  be  evenly  done. 
When  about  two-thirds  done,  stir  up  the  fire,  add 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  the  pan,  and  baste 
the  turkey  with  it;  dredge  a  little  flour  over,  and 
turn  it  so  that  it  may  be  nicely  browned  ;  take  care 
not  to  scorch  the  breastbone;  if  necessary,  skewer 
a  piece  of  paper  over  it. 

While  roasting,  take  the  heart  and  liver  (care- 
full}^  cut  off  the  gall  bag,)  and  boil  them  tender,  in 
water  neafly  to  cover  them  ;  chop  them  fine,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper*  When  the  turkey  is 
done,  strain  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  put  it  to  the 
chopped  giblets  in  a  stew-pan,  dredge  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  strain  to  it  some  of 
the  water  in  which  the  liver  and  heart  were  boiled  ; 
let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  it  in  a 
tureen,  and  serve  with  the  turkey.  Or  if  this  gravy 
is  not  liked,  dredge  a  little  flour  into  the  gravy #in 
the  pan,  and  set  it  over  the  fire,  stir  it  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  if  necessary,  add  a  little  hot  water, 
then  strain  it  through  a  gravy  strainer  into  the 
tureea. 

Take  up  the  roast,  draw  the  skewers  out,  and 
take  out  the  threads,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  on  its  back, 
and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes,  turnips  mashed, 
dressed  celery  and  pickles,  stewed  apples  ;  cold 
boiled  ham  or  toni^ue  for  a  laro:e  dinner. 

Mince  pies  for  Christmas  ;  pumpkin  and  apple 
pies  for  Thanksgiving.    -^ 


146  BOILED     TURKEY. 

A  turkey  may  be  stuffed  with  boiled  potatoes 
mashed  or  chopped,  and  seasoned  as  directed  for 
bread  stuffing.  Or  for  ordinary  occasions,  fat  salt 
pork  chopped  small,  may  be  used  instead  of  butter. 

To  Boil  a  Turkey. — Prepare  a  turkey  as 
for  roasting  ;  press  the  hips  upward  towards  the 
wings,  and  turn  the  leg  bones  towards  the  back, 
tie  them  with  a  string  passing  over  the  back,  secure 
the  hips  close  to  the  body,  by  running  skewers  in 
at  the  joint,  twist  the  wings  over  against  the  back, 
fill  the  body  with  a  stuffing  as  follows :  pour  boil- 
ing w^ater  or  milk  on  wheat  bread  or  mashed  pota- 
toes, season  high  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  if  liked, 
a  teaspoonful'of  fine  sage  or  thyme,  or  a  bunch  of 
finely  chopped  parsley,  till  the  crop  until  it  looks 
full,  and  turn  the  skin  of  the  neck  over  against 
the  back,  and  fasten  it  with  a  small  skewer. 

Dredge  flour  over  the  outside,  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  hot  (not  boihng)  water,  cover 
the  pot,  and  let  it  boil  gently,  according  to  its 
weight,  (fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,)  take  off  the 
scum,  serve  with  drawn  butter,  celery  or  pars- 
ley  sauce. 

Mashed  potatoes,  turnips  or  squash,  celery, 
pickles,  and  stewed  apples,  or  cranberry  jam,  and 
cold  ham  or  tongue,  are  served  with  boiled  turkey. 

Oyster  stuffing  is  made  as  above  directed,  adding 
a  pint  of  fine  oysters  to  it.  Serve  with  oyster  sauce 
poured  over,  or  in  a  tureen. 

Roast  or  boiled  turkey  may  be  served  cold  for 
supper,  or  cold  collation,  with  boiled  ham  cold,  cur- 
rant or  cranberry  jelly,  and  pickles  and  dressed 
celery. 

Garnish  with  fresh  water-cresses,  parsley,  or  the 
delicate  green  leaves  of  celery. 

Fragments  of  cold  turkey  maybe  advantageous- 


BROWN    FRICASSEE.  147 

ly  used  in  the  following  manner:  cut  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  chop  it  small;  if  there  remains  any 
of  the  stuffing,  put  it  to  the  meat,  if  not,  use  bread 
crumbs,  twice  as  much  as  of  minced  turkey  ;  mois- 
ten it  with  gravy  or  hot  water,  and  a  bit  of  butter, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  make  it 
in  small  patties  or  pies,  or  butter  tin  pie  plates,  put 
the  mince  in,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven ;  when 
done  turn  it  out.  Or  put  it  into  a  frying  pan,  set 
it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  until  it 
is  thoroughly  heated. 

The  remains  of  boiled  turkey  may  be  made  a 
salad,  like  chicken.  The  feet  of  chicken  or  turkey 
may  be  dished  with  a  stew  or  fricassee  ;  dip  them 
in  boiling  water  until  the  skin  will  peel  off,  cut  off 
the  claws,  boil  them  tender,  and  put  them  in  the 
stew. 

Fricasseed  Turkey,  (White.) — Cut  up  a  small 
young  turkey,  rinse  it  in  cold  water;  put  it  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  water  to  cover  it ;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  take  off  the  scum 
as  it  rises ;  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  when  it 
is  tender  and  white  ;  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
pepper ;  work  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sweet  butter ;  stir  it  into  the  fricassee  by 
the  spoonful.  Dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  in  hot  water, 
chop  it  small,  and  put  it  in  the  stew-pan  ;  cover  it, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes; then  serve  with  boiled  rice  or  mashed  potatoes 
for  breakfast  or  dinner. 

Brown  Fricassee. — Cut  up  the  turkey  quite 
small ;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  but  little  water  to 
keep  it  from  burning;  if  it  boils  out  before  the  flesh 
is  tender,  add  more  hot  water  ;  cover  it  closely,  and 
let  it  boil  gently  until  tender;  takeofi  the  scumj 


148  ROAST   aoosB. 

put  to  the  meat  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  when  the  butter  is  hot, 
dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  or  rolled 
crackers,  and  let  it  brown  niceW  ;  turning  the  pie- 
ces that  each  may  have  a  fine  color,  then  take  it 
up,  put  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  the  stew-pan,  stir 
it  with  a  silver  spoon,  scraping  the  brown  from  the 
bottom  ;  let  it  remain  over  the  fire  until  it  is  smooth, 
and  brown ;  then  pour  it  through  a  gravy  strainer 
over  the  meat. 

Serve  with  mashed  or  plain  boiled  potatoes  for 
breakfast,  or  with  the  addition  of  dressed  celery 
for  dinner. 

To  Choose  a  Goose. — Be  careful  in  choosing  a 
goose  that  it  is  young ;  an  old  goose  is  very  poor 
fare.  If  the  skin  and  joints  are  tender,  and  easily 
broken  with  the  finger,  it  is  young ;  a  fat  goose  is 
best. 

The  feet  and  bill  of  a  young  goose  are  yellow; 
in  an  old  one  they  are  red. 

When  fresh  killed  the  feet  are  pliable;  if  stale, 
they  will  be  dry  and  stiff. 

The  loose  fat  from  the  inside  of  a  goose  should  be 
taken  out,  and  the  fat  from  the  lower  part  of  the 
back.  Goose  grease  may  be  used  medicinally,  but 
not  for  eating. 

Some  persons  use  it  for  making  pie  crust  and  for 
common  molasses  cake  instead  of  other  shortening. 

To  Roast  a  Goose. — Pick  it  perfectly  clean, 
cut  off  the  legs  at  the  joints,  and  singe  it  nicely; 
cut  off  the  vent;  cut  a  slit  from  the  breast  bone  to 
it,  or  across,  below  the  breast  bone  ;  draw7)ut  the 
entrails  ;  take  off  that  leading  to  the  vent ;  take 
out  all  the  loose  fat,  save  the  heart  and  liver ;  cut 


ROAST    GOOSE.  149 

a  slit  at  the  back  of  the  neck,  and  draw  out  the 
crop;  cut  off  a  part  of  the  neck,  leaving  enough  of 
the  skin  to  fasten  over  against  the  back  ;  wash  the 
inside  of  the  body  with  cold  water;  wipe  it  dry, 
and  rub  it  well  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper ; 
prepare  the  stuffing. 

Cut  a  six  penny  loaf  of  wheat  bread  in  slices, 
pour  hot  water  over  to  wet  them  ;  then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  ground  pepper, 
and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  powdered  sage  or  thyme  if  liked. 
Fill  the  body,  then  sew  up  the  slit ;  tie  the  ends  of 
the  legs  together,  or  cut  a  place  and  put  them  in 
the  body  ;  pass  a  skewer  through  the  hips,  put  the 
heart  and  liver  between  the  wings  and  the  body, 
and  fasten  close  to  it  with  a  skewer  ;  spit  it,  put  a 
pint  of  water  in  the  pan,  to  baste  with ;  have  a 
bright,  steady  and  clear  fire,  with  a  bed  of  coals  at 
the  bottom,  and  set  the  goose  at  a  little  distance  at 
first  until  it  is  heated  through;  put  a  teaspoonfal  ot 
salt  to  the  water  in  the  pan  and  baste  freely  with 
it,  after  it  has  begun  to  roast ;  put  one  side  to  the 
fire  first,  then  the  other ;  after  that  the  back,  and 
lastly  the  breast,  that  it  may  be  evenly  done;  gra- 
dually draw  it  nearer  the  fire ;  when  nearly  done, 
stir  up  the  fire,  put  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in 
the  pan,  and  baste  with  it ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over 
it ;  turn  it  that  every  part  may  be  browned  ;  allow 
fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat;  it  must  be 
well  done,  which  will  depend  on  the  state  and  man- 
ageuient  of  the  fire. 

If  the  gravy  is  very  fat  take  some  of  it  off;  put 
the  pan  over  the  fire  ;  let  it  become  hot,  then  stir 
into  it  a  thin  batter  made  of  a  tablespoon ful  of 
wheat  flour  and  cold  water,  stir  it  until  it  is  brown 
and  smooth ;  if  it  is  thicker  than  is  liked,  add  a 


160  ROAST    GOOSE. 

little  boiling  water,  stir  it  in,  and  pour  it  through  a 
gravy  strainer  into  a  tureen. 

A  goose  may  be  equally  well  dressed  in  a  hot 
oven  or  stove. 

Prepare  it  as  directed  for  roasting ;  set  a  trivet 
or  muffin  rings  in  a  dripping-pan  and  place  the 
goose  with  its  back  upon  the  trivet  or  rings  ;  put  a 
pint  of  hot  water  in  the  pan  ;  put  bits  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  large  hickorj^  nut  over  the  body ;  dredge 
wheat  flour  over,  and  set  it  in  a  thoroughly  heated 
brick  or  stove  oven ;  baste  it  freely  and  often  ; 
when  done  take  it  from  the  pan,  cover  it,  and  set  it 
before  the  fire  to  keep  hot ;  put  the  pan  over  the 
fire,  take  out  the  rings  or  trivet ;  add  a  bit  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  and  when  it  is  hot  stir  into 
it  a  thin  batter  made  of  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat 
flour  and  cold  water ;  if  too  thick,  add  hot  water  to 
thin  it;  stir  it  smooth  and  pour  through  a  gravy 
strainer  into  a  tureen.  A  lemon  sliced  thin  and 
fried  in  the  gravy  before  putting  in  the  batter  and 
served  over  the  goose,  or  put  in  the  tureen  with  the 
gravy,  is  liked  by  some  persons. 

The  stuffing  may  be  made  of  boiled  potatoes, 
chopped  or  mashed,  instead  of  bread,  and  moistened 
with  milk.  An  onion  or  leek  finely  minced  may  be 
added  to  the  gravy  if  liked. 

Half  a  pound  of  fat  corned  pork  chopped  small, 
may  be  put  with  the  stuffing  instead  of  butter  for' 
ordinary  occasions,  if  preferred. 

A  young  goose  may  be  cut  up  and  made  in  a  pie 
or  pot-pie. 

An  old   goose  may  be  rendered  eatable  thus:- 
Empty  it  and  put  it  in  hot  water  to  cover  it,  and  let 
it  boil  until  tender,  then  roast  it  or  make  a  fricassee. 

The  vegetables  to  be  served  with  roast  goose  are 
as  follows : 


BROWX-STEW  A  GOOSE  WHOLE.  151 

Plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes,  mashed  yellow- 
turnips,  or  winter  squash,  apples  stewed  without 
sugar;  or  cranberry  jam,  boiled  onions,  pickles,  and 
dressed  celery. 

Dessert — Apple,  pumpkin,  custard  or  mince  pies. 

To  BaowN-sTEw  a  Goose  Whole. — Pick  a 
goose  clean,  singe  and  empty  it,  flatten  the  breast 
bone  with  the  side  of  a  cleaver  or  rolling  pin  ;  wash 
it  in  cold  water  and  take  out  the  inside  fat,  rub  it 
well  outside  and  in  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, cut  off  the  neck,  leaving  enough  of  the  skin  to 
fasten  over  the  back  ;  boil  some  potatoes  and  chop 
them  small,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  if 
liked,  a  bunch  of  parsle}''  or  a  leek  cut  fine,  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  sage  or  thyme  ;  add  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  and  a  cup  of  milk;  fill  the  body 
and  sew  it  up  ;  put  it  in  a  dinner  pot  or  iron  bake 
kettle  with  the  back  downwards,  put  in  hot  (not 
boiling)  water  to  half  cover  it,  cover  the  pot  or 
ketde  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  let  it  boil  till 
tender;  try  it,  by  sticking  a  fork  in  the  mast  fleshy 
part ;  the  water  will  be  nearly  out,  then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  cut  small,  or 
half  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  dredge 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  turn  the  goose 
over,  the  breast  downwards,  and  cover  the  pot 
close  ;  set  it  down  in  front  of  the  fire  with  a  bed  of 
coals  under  the  pot  and  let  it  brown  without  burning. 
When  done  take  it  up,  add  a  cup  of  hot  water 
and  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  stir  it  smooth  ;  when  it  is 
nicely  browned,  turn  it  over  the  goose  and  serve, 
with  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes,  mashed 
turnips  and  pickles,  etc. 

To  INFake  a  Ragout  of  the  Preceding 
Receipt. — Whilst  the  goose  is  stewing,  scrape  a 


152  CHOICE  OF  DUCKS. 

carrot  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  notch  the  edges  neatly 
and  boil  them  in  a  little  water  until  tender,  cut  a  leek 
in  slices,  dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  into  hot  water  and 
cut  it  small;  when  the  breast  side  of  the  goose  is 
done  a  fine  brown  turn  the  other  down  ;  add  the 
vegetables,  cover  it,  and  in  fifteen  minutes  take  up 
the  goose  ;  add  a  small  cup  of  hot  water  to  the 
gravy,  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour, 
let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  it  over  the  goose  and 
serve.  A  head  of  celery  parboiled  and  cut  small 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  leek. 

To  Choose  Ducks. — Ducks  must  be  fat  and 
plump  and  thick  on  the  breast.  If  a  duck  is  young 
the  skin  can  be  easily  broken  with  the  finger,  and 
the  feet  are  pliable. 

Tame  ducks  are  prepared  for  the  table  the  same 
as  young  geese. 

For  roasting,  have  a  hot  fire  and  baste  freely  and 
often  ;  half  an  hour  w^ill  be  sufficient  for  the  smallest, 
the  larger  in  proportion. 

Wild  (lucks  should  be  fat,  the  claws  small, 
reddish  and  supple;  if  they  are  not  fresh,  on  open- 
ing the  beak,  there  will  be  a  disagreeable  smell ; 
the  flesh  of  the  hen  is  the  most  delicate. 

Pick  them  clean  without  scald ini:^,  cut  the  winors 
close  to  the  body  and  empty  it,  cut  off' a  part  of  the 
neck  and  singe  them  nicely. 

Having  drawn  wild  ducks,  wipe  them  well  inside 
with  a  cloth,  rub  each  outside  and  in  with  a  mix- 
ture of  pepper  and  salt;  cut  a  sliceof  wheat  bread, 
dip  it  in  hot  water,  spread  it  thick  with  butter, 
sprinkle  pepper  over,  and  put  it  in  the  body,  sew  it 
up,  truss  the  legs  close  to  the  bod}^  and  fasten  them 
with  skewers  ;  then  split  them  or  lay  them  on  a 
trivet  in  the  dripping  })an ;  have  a  bright,  clear  fire, 
that   the}'    may  rcast   quickly  ;  put  half  a   pint  of 


CANVAS  BACK  DUCKS.  153 

water  in  the  pan,  put  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  an  onion  sliced  thin,  baste  with  this  for  ten  or 
twelve  minutes  (to  take  off  the  fishy  taste  peculiar 
to  wild  ducks)  throw  it  away,  put  half  a  pint  of  hot 
water  in  its  place,  put  in  a  little  pepper,  baste  the 
ducks  with  butter,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  and 
baste  with  the  water  in  the  pan  ;  turn  them  that 
every  part  may  be  done.  Half  an  hour,  with  a  hot 
fire  and  frequent  basting  will  roast  them  nicely. 
Serve  the  ducks  as  hot  as  possible. 

Whilst  the  ducks  are  roasting,  boil  the  giblets 
tender  in  a  little  water;  chop  or  mince  them  fine ; 
add  to  the  mince  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  bit  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour  ;  when 
the  ducks  are  done  put  it  in  the  pan'with  the  gravy, 
set  it  over  the  fire,  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
serve  in  a  tureen.  Make  a  glass  of  wine  hot, 
put  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly  and 
w^hite  sugar  each,  and  serve  with  wild  ducks, 
or  put  a  wineglass  of  port  in  the  pan  ;  a  few 
minutes  before  taking  them  up  baste  the  ducks 
once  or  twice  with  it;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  jelly 
and  the  gravy. 

Or,  half  roast  wild  ducks  without  seasoning. 
When  they  are  brought  to  the  table,  slice  the  breast, 
strew  over  pepper  and  salt,  pour  a  little  port  wine 
over,  or  squeeze  the  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon 
over  ;  add  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg, 
sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar  ;  cut 
up  the  bird,  and  set  it  over  a  chafing  dish,  turn  it 
that  it  may  be  nicel}^*  done  ;  or  prepare  it  in  this 
manner  and  set  it  on  coals  befoio  a  hot  fire. 

Canvas  Back  Ducks. — Canvas  back  ducks  are 
'  served  in  the  same  mrtnner  as  wild  ducks,  without 
the  onion  in  the  basting;  as  there  is  no  disagreeable 
taste  to  destrov,  that  is  not  necessary. 


154  ROAST  DUCKS  IN  A  POT. 

Canvas  back  ducks  may  be  served  the  same  as 
goose  or  tame  duck.  Roast  them  according  to  their 
size. 

To  Roast  Ducks  in  a  Pot. — Draw  a  pair  of  fat 
ducks,  rinse  the  inside  with  cokl  water,  wipe  it 
dry  ;  dip  a  slice  of  bread  in  hot  water,  spread  but- 
ter thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  pepper  and  a  little  salt 
over  and  put  one  m  the  body  of  each  ;  sew  up  the 
slit ;  skewer  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body, 
rub  pepper  and  sale  over  the  outside  of  each,  and 
lay  them  with  the  backs  down,  in  an  iron  dinner 
pot  or  bake  kettle  ;  put  in  a  pint  of  hot  water,  cut 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  sUces  and  put  it  over 
the  breast  of  the  ducks,  cover  the  pot  close  and  set 
it  over  a  moderc'ite  fire  for  half  an  hour,  then  dredge 
a  tablespoon ful  of  wheat  flour,  turn  the  ducks 
over  nnd  cover  the  pot,  stir  up  the  fire  and  let 
them  brown  nicely  without  burning  ;  about  fifteen 
minutes  will  do  them  ;  when  done  take  them  up  ; 
add  a  teacup  of  boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  stir  it 
smooth  and  pour  it  over  the  ducks  and  serve. 

If  tlie  (lucks  are  done  in  an  iron  bake  kettle,  with 
coals  and  ashes  on  the  lid,  they  will  not  require  to 
be  turned. 

A  lemon  sliced  thin,  and  put  in  the  gravy  before 
the  water,  or  a  glass  of  wine,  and  a  spoonful  of 
jelly,  instead  of  water,  may  be  considered  an  im- 
provement. 

Ducks  may  be  cut  up,  and  §tewed,  or  roasted, 
in  this  way,  or  they  may  be  fried  like  chickens. 

Wild  duck  requires  less  time  to  cook  than  tame. 

PiOEoxs. — Piireons  should  be  fresh  killed  ;  when 
in  good  order,  they  are  plump  on  the  breast,  and  fat 
at  the  vent,  and  the  feet  are  pliable.     When  stale, 


FRIED    PIGEONS.  155 

the  vent  is  loose  and  open,  and  has  a  greenisli  with- 
ered appearance. 

Wild  pigeons,  when  fat,  are  preferred  to  tame. 

Empty,  and  truss  pigeons,  the  same  as  chick- 
ens or  ducks  ;  roast,  broil,  fry,  or  stew  them,  accord- 
ing to  the  following  several  directions. 

To  Broil  Pigeons. — Spht  young  pigeons  down 
the  back,  take  out  the  entrails;  broil  the  heart* 
take  out  the  breast  bone,  or  flatten  it,  and  lay  them 
on  a  hot  gridiron  (the  inside  to  the  fire,)  over  a 
fire  of  bright  coals;  put  a  tin  cover  over,  and  let 
them  broil  briskly  ;  when  nearly  cooked  through, 
take  off  the  cover,  stir  up  the  coals,  and  turn  the 
pigeons,  and  let  them  brown  nicely  ;  if  necessary, 
add  fresh  coals;  for  half  a  dozen  young  pigeons,  put 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  on  a  plate,  add  to  it  a 
small  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
pep{3er  ;  work  them  together,  put  the  broil  on,  turn 
each  piece  once  or  twice  in  the  gravy,  and  serve 
hot. 

Large  tame  pigeons  are  cut  in  two  at  the  back, 
and  breast,  for  broiling,  or  frying. 

To  Fry  Pigeons. — Pick  pigeons  clean,  split 
them  open  down  the  back,  and  take  out  the  en- 
trails, and  if  large,  cut  them  in  two  at  the  breast ; 
rub  each  piece  over,  wii.h  salt  and  pepper,  mixed  ; 
make  so'ne  beef  dripping,  or  lard  and  butter,  (equal 
parts)  hot,  in  a  frying-pan,  dip  each  piece  of  pigeon 
in  wheat  flour,  or  rolled  cracker,  put  them  in  the 
pan,  with  the  inside  down  ;  cover  the  pan,  and 
let  them  fry  quicklv,  until  one  side  is  a  fine  brown, 
and  nearly  cooked  through  ;  then  take  olf  the  cover, 
and  turn  the  other  side  ;  when  both  are  done,  take 
them  0[i  a  hot  steak  dish,  put  a  small  bit  of  butter 
on  each,  sprinkie  a  little  pepper  over,  pui  a  table 


156  bird's  nest. 

spoonful  of  hoi  water  in  the  pan,  let  It  boi.  up  once, 
and  put  it  ia  the  dish  ;  serve  hot. 

A  few  thin  slices  of  fat  corned  pork,  may  be 
broiled,  or  fried,  and  served  with  the  pigeons  ;  no 
other  salt  will  be  required. 

Slices  of  bread  nicely  toasted,  with  the  outside 
crust  cut  off,  may  be  put  in  the  dish  under  a  fry  oi 
broil. 

Pigeons  Stewed,  (white.) — Cut  off  the  vent, 
cut  a  sht  from  the  breast  bone  to  it,  take  out  the 
entrails  ;  rinse  the  inside,  and  rub  the  pigeons  out- 
side and  in,  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper  ; 
make  stuffing  as  for  chickens  ;  fasten  the  legs  close 
lo  the  bodv,  and  twist  the  wino:s  aofainst  the  back, 
and  put  them  in  a  dinner-pot  on  their  backs,  with 
the  necks  in  the  centre  of  the  pot ;  put  in  hot  wa- 
ter nearly  to  cover  them,  cover  the  pot  close,  and 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  for  half  an  hour,  skijii 
it,  then  add  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  worked  into  it,  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  (for  half  a  dozen  pigeons,)  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  with  a  bunch  of  green 
parsly  cut  small,  cover  it,  and  let  them  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes,  then  serve  them  in  their  gravy. 

Serve  dressed  celery  and  pickles  with  them. 

Pigeons  may  be  cut  up  and  stewed  in  the  same 
manner  in  less  time. 

The  feet  may  be  left  on  ;  hold  them  in  boiling 
water  until  the  skin  will  easily  peel  off,  cut  off  the 
toes  at  the  first  joint,  cross  them,  and  fasten  them 
together  below  the  breast. 

Pigeons  may  be  stuffed  and  trussed  in  this  way, 
for  roastinnr. 

o 

To  Make  a  Bird's  Nest. — Boil  some  yellow 
macaroni  gently,  until  it  is  quite   swelled  out  and 


i 


STEW    PIGEONS    BROWX.  157 

tender,  then  cut  it  in  pieces,  the  length  of  a  finger, 
and  lay  thenri  on  a  dish  like  a  straw  nest. 

Truss  pigeons  with  the  heads  on,  (having  scalded 
and  picked  them  clean,)  turned  under  the  left  wing, 
leave  the  feet  on,  and  having  stewed  them,  arrange 
them  as  in  a  nest ;  pour  the-  gravy  over  and  serve. 

The  nest  may  be  made  of  boiled  rice,  or  bread 
cut  in  pieces,  the  length  and  thickness  of  a  finger, 
and  fried  a  nice  brown  in  hot  lard,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Or,  make  it  of  bread,  toasted  a  yel- 
low brown.  Any  small  birds  may  be  stewed  or 
roasted,  and  served  in  this  way. 

To  Stew  Pigeons  Brown. — Pick  the  pigeons, 
and  take  out  the  entrails  ;  into  a  bit  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  small  egg,  work  a  small  teaspoonful  ot 
pepper,  and  a  very  little  salt;  having  rinsed  the 
inside  of  each  pigeon  with  cold  water,  and  wiped 
it  dry,  put  in  the  butter,  sew  up  the  slit,  draw  the 
legs  together  below  the  breast  bone,  tie  them  with 
a  thread  ;  rub  salt  and  pepper  over  the  outside  of 
eacli,  and  put  them  the  backs  downward  and  necks 
in  the  centre,  into  an  iron  dinner  pot  or  baking  ket- 
tle, with  a  pint  of  hot  water ;  cover  them  close,  set 
the  pot  or  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire  for  half  an 
hour  for  young  pigeons,  or  until  tender  for  old  ones, 
then  skim  them,  dredge  in  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat 
flour,  and  to  half  a  dozen  of  pigeons,  put  quarter  oi 
a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per, cover  the  pot,  and  set  it  over  a  bright  fire  to 
brown,  turn  them  that  they  may  brown  nicely  on 
the  breast ;  when  done  take  them  up,  add  a  cup  of 
boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  dredge  a  teaspoonful  of 
browned  flour  into  it,  stir  it  smooth,  and  let  it  boil 
up  once,  then  pour  it  through  a  grav}^  strainer  over 
the  stew,  and  serve. 

Thin  slices  of  bread  toasted  delicately  brown, 


158  PIGEON     PIE. 

may  be  laid  on  the  dish  under  the  stew.  Any 
small  birds  may  be  stewed  in  this  manner,  requir- 
ing less  time  in  proportion  to  their  size. 

Pigeons  may  be  cut  in  halves  and  stewed 
brown. 

A  brown  stew  may  be  made  in  the  following 
manner:  take  half  a  pound  of  nicely  corned  fat 
pork,  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  and  put  it  down  in  the 
pot  under  the  birds  ;  when  the  water  is  nearly  out, 
and  the  meat  begins  to  brown,  dredge  in  a  little 
flour,  and  turn  them  so  as  to  brown  the  birds,  add 
a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  pepper;  when  they  are  nicely  browned,  take 
them  up,  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  gravy,  stir  it 
smooth  ;  strain  it  over  the  birds,  and  serve. 

A  few  slices  of  lemon  may  be  put  in  the  pot  with 
the  pepper  and  butter,  and  served  in  the  gravy,  if 
Hked 

PiGEOx  Pie. — Clean  and  truss  three  or  four 
pigeons,  rub  the  outside  and  in  with  a  mixture  of 
pepper  and  salt ;  rul)  the  inside  with  a  bit  of  but- 
ter, and  fill  it  with  a  bread  and  butter  stuffing,  or 
mashed  potatoes;  sew  up  the  slit,  bulter  the  sides 
of  a  tin  basin  or  pudding  dish,  and  line  (the  sides 
only,)  with  pie  paste,  rolled  to  quarter  of  an  inch 
thickness  ;  lay  the  birds  in  ;  for  three  large  tame 
pigeons,  cut  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter  and 
put  it  over  them  ;  strew  over  alai'ge  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pe[)per,  with  a 
bunch  of  finely  cut  parsley,  if  liked;  dredge  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  over;  put  ir^ 
water  to  nearly  fill  the  pie ;  lay  skewers  across  the 
top,  cover  with  a  puff*  paste  crust ;  cut  a  slit  in  the 
middle,  ornament  the  edge  with  leaves,  braids,  or 
shells  of  paste,  and  put  it  in  a  moderately  hot  or 
quick  oven,  for  one  hour ;  w^hen  nearly  done,  brush 


ROAST    PIGEONS.  159 

the  top  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a 
little  milk,  and  finish. 

The  pigeons  for  this  pie  may  be  cut  in  two  or 
more  pieces,  if  preferred. 

Anv  small  birds  mav  be  done  in  this  manner. 

Pigeon  Pot-pie. — Clean  the  pigeons,  cut  each 
m  two,  and  finish,  the  same  as  chicken  pot-pie. 

Roast  Pigeons. — Clean  the  pigeons,  and  stuff 
them  the  same  as  chickens;  leave  the  feet  on,  dip 
them  into  scalding  water,  strip  off  the  skin,  cross 
them,  and  tie  them  together  below  the  breast  bone; 
or  cut  them  off;  the  head  may  remain  on;  if  so, 
dip  it  in  scalding  water,  and  pick  it  clean  ;  twist 
the  wings  back,  put  the  liver  between  the  right 
v/ing  and  the  body,  and  turn  the  head  under  the 
other  ;  rub  the  outside  of  each  bird  wMth  a  mixture 
of  pepper  and  salt;  spit  them,  and  put  some  water 
in  the  dripping-pan  ;  for  each  bird  put  a  bit  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  small  ^gg^  put  them  before  a  hot 
fire,  and  let  them' roast  quickl}^;  baste  frequently, 
half  an  hour  will  do  them;  when  nearly  done, 
dredge  them  with  wheat  flour,  and  baste  with  the 
butter  in  the  pan;  turn  them,  that  they  may  be 
niceh^  and  evenly  browned  ;  when  done,  take  them 
up,  set  the  pan  over  the  fire,  make  a  thin  batter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour,  and  cold  water,  when 
the  gravy  is  boiling  hot,  stir  it  in  ;  continue  to  stir 
it  for  a  few  minutes,  until  it  is  brown,  then  pour  it 
through  a  gravy  sieve  into  a  tureen,  and  serve  with 
the  pigeons. 

Currant  jelly,  or  apples  stewed  without  sugar, 
dressed  celery,  or  any  other  salad,  and  mashed  tur- 
nips or  squash,  may  be  served  with  roast  birds. 

Pigeons  or  small  birds  roasted,  may  be  dished 
thus :  lay  some  small  slices  of  nicely  toasted  bread 


160  PIGEON    CUTLETS. 

on  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over,  lay  a  pigeon  or  bird 
on  each,  and  serve 

Pigeons  n:jay  be  roasted  in  a  hot  stove  oven  ;  pre- 
pare them  as  directed  ;  la}''  them  on  a  wire  stand 
or  trivet  in  a  dripping-pan  ;  baste  and  finish  as  be- 
fore directed. 

Roast  quickly  and  baste  very  frequently",  that 
they  may  be  nicely  done  and  juicy. 

Pigeon  Cutlets. — Divide  the  pigeons  in  halves 
down  the  breast  and  back;  turn  the  foot  inward  so 
that  it  may  appear  like  the  bone  of  a  chop  ;  rub 
each  over  with  salt  and  pepper  mixed  ;  dip  them 
in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  with  sli- 
ces of  fit  corned  pork  or  sweet  lard  or  beef  dripping, 
let  the  fat  become  hot  in  the  pan  before  putting  the 
pieces  in  ;  put  the  inside  down  first ;  put  a  tin  cover 
over  and  fry  quickly.  When  this  is  done  nearly 
through,  turn  the  other  and  let  it  brown  ;  then  take 
them  up,  put  half  a  wine-glass  of  hot  water  in  the 
pan,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  let 
it  become  boiling  hot;  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
browned  flour;  let  it  remain  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  put  it  in  the  dish  and  serve  ;  or  make 
the  gravy  by  putting  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  pan, 
after  ^taking  up  the  fry;  let  it  become  hot;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  hot  w^ater  and  turn  it  into  the  dish. 
Port  or  Madeira  wine  may  used  in  the  gravy  in- 
stead of  water,  and  currant  jelly  served  with  it,  or 
a  tablespoonful  served  into  it.  Or  a  lemon  cut  in 
slices  and  fried  rtiay  be  served  with  the  cutlets. 

Pigeon  cutlets  may  be  broiled  and  served  with 
or  without  jelly. 

Woodcock,  snipe,  partridges,  quails,  etc.,  may  be 
dressed  the  same  as  pigeons.  The  pheasant  or 
prairie  hen,  which  is  the  same,  or  nearly  resembles 
it,  mav  be  served  the  same  as  chickens. 


TO    KEEP    GAME    FROM    TAINTING.  16J 

To  Broil  Small  Birds. — Small  birds  should  be 
carefully  picked  that  the  skin  may  not  be  torn;  for 
frying  or  broiling,  split  them  down  the  back,  spread 
them  flat,  and  broil  very  gently  over  a  bright  fire 
of  coals  ;  put  the  inside  first  to  the  fire,  let  them  be 
done  nearl}^  through  before  turning  ;  brown  the  other 
side,  nicely  ;  then  take  them  on  to  a  hot  dish,  butter 
them,  put  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper  over  and 
serve  quickly. 

When  it  is  not  convenient  to  broil  birds,  they 
may  be  done  very  nicely  in  a  pan  thus  : — spht  them 
as  directed  for  broiling  ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  let  it  become  hot,  and  having  rubbed 
th-e  bird  over  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  rolled 
crackers,  put  them  in  the  pan  and  fry  them  nicely; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  to  the  gravy,  put 
it  in  the  dish,  and  serve. 

To  Keep  Game  from  Tainting. — Game  may 
often  be  made  fit  for  eating  when  apparently  spoiled 
by  nicely  cleaning  it  and  washing  with  vinegar  and 
water. 

If  you  have  birds  which  you  fear  will  not  keep, 
pick  and  empt}^  them;  rinse  them.,  and  rub  them 
over  with  salt  outside  and  in;  have  in  readiness 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  plunge  them  in 
one  by  one,  holding  them  by  the  legs  and  draw- 
ing them  up  and  down,  so  that  the  water  may  pass 
through  them,  let  them  remain  in  for  five  or  six 
minutes,  then  hang  them  in  a  cool  place ;  when 
perfectly  drained,  rub  them  outside  and  in  with 
black  pepper. 

The  most  delicate  birds  may  be  preserved  in 
this  way.  Thoroughly  w^ash  them  before  roasting 
or  otherwise  cooking  them. 

Pieces  of  charcoal  put  aboqt  ii^esit  of  birds,  wiJJ 

11 


162  ROAST    BIRDS. 

preserve  them  from  taint  and  restore  wliat  is 
spoiling.  Poultry  or  birds  drawn  and  wiped  dry, 
and  a  bit  of  charcoal  put  into  the  body  and  over 
the  outside  of  each,  will  keep  them  nicely,  or  they 
may  ije  kept  in  a  box  lined  with  zinc, and  bits  of  ice 
between  them.  Pepper  keeps  them  secure  from  Hies. 

To  Roast  Birds. — Pick  and  empty  them,  (Eu- 
ropeans do  not  take  out  the  entrails  from  birds  of 
several  kinds ;  but  few  Americans  have  arrived  at 
that  state  of  refinement,  therefore  no  receij)t  will  be 
given  ibr  dressing  tiiem,  without  so  doing.)  Put  a  bit 
of  butter  and  pepper  and  salt  worked  into  the  body, 
or  fill  with  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  with  a  bit  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  moistened  with  ujilk; 
cut  ofl'  the  pinions  at  the  first  joint;  press  the  legs 
close  to  the  ribs,  and  turn  tlie  head  backward, 
sticking  the  bill  between  the  leg  and  the  body  ;  rub 
each  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  hang  them  on 
bird  S[)its.  and  set  them  before  a  hot  fire;  baste 
with  a  cup  of  water  and  butter;  dredge  Hour  or 
rolled  cracker  over,  and  baste  continually  lor  the 
last  five  tninutes  ;  lay  slices  of  tcjast  under  to  caich 
the  dripping,  and  serve  under  the  birds. 

Small  birds  may  be  prepared  as  for  roasting,  and 
broiled  whole  so  as  to  resemble  a  roast.  Have  a 
good  bed  of  bright  coals;  set  the  gridiron  ratliei 
high  over  it ;  put  the  birds  on,  with  the  back  down 
ibr  a  few  'minutes;  then  turn  the  sides  and  l)reast 
that  they  may  be  evenly  done  ;  keep  them  covered 
witli  a  tiii  cover;  stir  up  the  coals  occasionally ; 
when  about  half  done,  put  the  gridiron  nearer  the 
fire  to  brown  the  birds;  when  done,  take  them  on 
a  hot  dish,  butter  them,  and  serve  hot. 

Rabbits,    HxYres,    and    Squirrels. — Rabbits 


RABBITS,    HARES,    AND    SQUIRRELS.  163 

hares,  and  squirrels  are  chosen,  dressed,  and  cook- 
ed, in  like  manner. 

These  should   not   be   cooked  as  soon  as  killed 
one  direction  will  be  given,  which  will  serve  for 
either. 

Cut  a  hare  or  rabbit  open  down  the  belly,  take 
out  the  entrails,  save  the  liver,  wipe  the  inside  dry, 
and  rub  it  over  with  pepper,  then  hang  it  in  a  cool 
dry  place. 

The  ears  of  an  old  hare  are  dry  and  tough,  and 
the  claws  blunt ;  in  a  young  one,  the  ears  are  ten- 
der and  pliable,  and  the  claws  sharp  and  smooth. 

When  wanted  for  dressing,  cut  off  the  fore  legs 
at  the  first  joint,  raise  the  skin  of  the  back  and  draw 
it  over  the  hind  legs  ;  leave  the  tail  whole,  then 
draw  the  skin  over  the  back  and  slip  out  the  fore 
legs  ;  cut  the  skin  from  the  neck  and  head,  skin 
the  ears,  and  leave  ihem  on  ;  clean  the  vent,  cut 
the  sinews  under  the  legs,  bring  them  forward  ;  run 
a  skewer  through  one  hind  leg,  through  the  body 
and  the  other  hind  leg  ;  do  the  same  with  the  fore 
legs  ;  lay  the  head  rather  back,  put  a  skewer  in 
at  the  mouth,  through  the  back  of  the  head,  and 
between  the  shoulders;  rinse  the  inside,  wipe  it 
dry,  rub  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  Hll  it 
with  a  bread  stuffing,  or  with  boiled  potatoes, 
mashed  and  seasoned  the  same  as  bread  stuffing; 
sew  up  the  body,  or  tie  a  cord  around  to  keep  in 
the  stuffing,  let  it  secure  the  legs  also  in  their 
places;  it  is  now  ready  for  roasting;  finish  the 
same  as  for  fowls. 

In  skinning  rabbits,  cut  ofT  the  ears,  before  boil 
ing,  hold  the  head  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  which 
will  prevent  the  disagreeable  appearance  they  oth- 
erwise have. 

Boil  the  same  as  fowl,  or  turkey    according  to 


164  KEEP    EGGS. 

their  weight ;  serve  the  same  sauce  and  vegetables 
with  it. 

They  may  be  broiled,  stewed,  or  fried  the  same 
as  chickens,  or  pigeons  ;  or  made  a  soup. 

Squirrels,  after  having  been  split  and  skinned, 
may  be  broiled,  fried,  or  stewed  ;  they  are  best 
broiled. 


EGGS,  OMLETS,  &c. 

To  Choose  Eggs. — Fresh  eggs  when  held  to  the 
light,  the  white  will  look  clear,  and  the  yolk  dis- 
tinct ;  if  not  good,  they  will  have  a  clouded  ap- 
pearance. 

When  eggs  are  stale,  the  white  will  be  thin  and 
watery,  and  the  yolk  will  not  be  a  uniform  color, 
when  broken  ;  if  there  is  no  mustiness,  or  disa- 
greeable smell,  eggs  in  this  state,  are  not  unfit  for 
making  cakes,  puddings,  etc. 

Eggs  for  boiling  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible  ; 
a  new  laid  egg  will  generally  recommend  itself,  by 
the  delicate  transparency  of  its  shell. 

Eggs  may  be  kept  fresh  for  several  weeks,  by 
packing  them,  the  small  end  downwards,  in  bran 
or  chaff;  keep  them  in  a  cool  place.  A  refrigera- 
tor, or  ice-box,  will  keep  eggs  as  when  first  laid  for 
a  long  time. 

To  Keep  Eggs. — Take  fresh  laid  eggs,  dip 
each  one  in  melted  lard,  or  beef  fat,  or  rub  a  bit 
of  butter  thoroughly  over  the  shell,  between  the 
hands  ;  then  pack  them,  the  small  end  downwards, 
in  bran,  or  chaff;  in  this  way  they  will  keep  good 
for  months. 


BOILED    EGGS.  166 

Eggs  may  be  kept  good  for  a  year,  in  the  follow- 
ing manner  : — 

To  a  pail  of  water,  put  of  unslacked  lime  and 
:::oarse  salt  each  a  pint ;  keep  it  in  a  cellar,  or  cool 
place,  and  put  the  eggs  in,  as  fresh  laid  as  possible. 

It  is  well  to  keep  a  stone  pot  of  this  lime  water 
ready  to  receive  the  eggs  as  soon  as  laid  ;  make  a 
fresh  supply  every  few  months.  This  lime  water 
is  of  exactly  the  proper  strength;  strong  lime  w^ater 
will  cook  the  eggs.  Very  strong  lime  water  will 
eat  the  shell. 

For  making  omlets,  or  frying  eggs,  it  is  best  to 
have  an  omlet  pan,  which  is  thick-bottomed,  and 
about  six  inches  in  diameter,  or  across  ;  this  is  best 
also  for  pan-cakes,  or  fritters,  or  for  frying  oysters  ; 
the  small  size  of  the  pan,  enables  you  to  turn  the 
omlet,  or  pan-cake,  w^ithout  danger  of  breaking ; 
and  the  thick  bottom  regulates  the  heat,  so  that 
fritters,  etc.,  may  be  sufficiently  done  without  burn- 

For  turning  omlets,  fried  oysters,  fried  parsley, 
&c.,  have  a  skimmer  spoon,  which  is  a  flat  thin 
blade,  with  holes  or  perforations,  that  the  fry  may 
be  taken  up  without  the  fat. 

To  Boil  Eggs,  ^?^  their  shells, — Wash  the  shells 
clean  in  cold  w^ater  before  boiling  ;  have  a  stew- 
pan  of  boiling  water,  into  which  put  the  eggs  ;  keep 
it  boihng — four  minutes  for  very  soft — five,  that  the 
yolk  only  may  be  soft — six  minutes  will  boil  the 
yolk  hard,  for  eating.  Eight  minutes  are  required 
to  boil  eggs  for  salad,  or  garnish.  When  done, 
take  them  from  the  boiling  water,  into  a  basin  of 
cold  water,  which  will  prevent  the  yolk  turning 
dark  or  black. 

Boiled  eggs  will  become  harder,  from  the  heat 
of  the  shell,  if  they  lay  a  few  minutes  before  break- 


166  BOILED    EGGS. 

ing  ;  if  they  are  not  to  be  served  immediatel\%  take 
them  up  a  minute  sooner  than  otherwise,  and  put 
them  into  a  dish  with  a  cover  ;  in  this  way  they 
will  keep  hot  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  he- 
come  but  little  harder.  If  the  water  is  kept  fast 
boiUnir  after  the  eix^zs  are  in,  one  minute  less  will 
do  them,  than  if  otherwise. 

A  more  dehcate  way  of  eggs  in  the  shells  is  this: 
Have  a  stew-pan  of  pure  water,  boiling  hot,  put  the 
eggs  in,  cover  the  stew-pan  without  putting  it  over 
the  fire  ;  five  minutes  will  do  then  for  those  who 
like  soft  e2:2:s,  and  a  minute  or  two  lonsfer  for  those 
who  like  them  harder.  Tlie  while  of  eggs  boiled 
in  this  way  is  more  like  poached  eggs  ;  less  firm 
than  in  the  other  manner. 

If  efjGfs  are  boiled  in  an  eg^^  boiler  at  table,  let 
the  water  be  boiling  hot  when  they  are  put  in,  and 
replenish  it  when  more  are  wanted  ;  five  minutes 
will  be  required  when  the  white  is  wanted  soft,  six 
when  the  yolk  onlv  is  to  be  soft. 

The  most  healthful  and  delicate  wavof  cookin2[ 
eggs  is  to  [)oach  them  thus — have  a  clean  stew-pan 
with  boiling  hot  water,  add  to  it  a  little  salt;  break 
the  eg2:s  one  at  a  time  into  a  cup,  and  from  it  slip 
them  into  boiling  water;  when  the  white  is  set  and 
firm,  which  it  will  be  after  about  five  minutes,  take 
each  up  with  a  skimmer,  and  lay  them  into  a  <iish 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  cover  the  dish  ;  when 
all  are  done,  put  a  bit  of  butter,  and  if  liked,  sprin- 
kle pepper  over  them,  and  serve;  in  this  w^ay  they 
may  be  kept  hot  and  soft  for  a  long  time,  so  that  you 
may  do  any  number  of  them. 

After  boiling  eggs  as  directed  for  garnishing; 
when  they  are  quite  cold,  take  oft*  the  shell,  and 
cut  them  lengthwise  in  two;  then  cut  each  half  in 
two  or  three.  This  looks  well  over  spinach  or  let- 
tuce or  boiled  fish  ;  or  cut  them  in  slices  across  ;  or 


OMLETS.  167 

the  white  ma}^  be  cut  in  long  slips,  and  the  j^olk  in 
slices  or  quarters. 

Eggs  Poached  in  Balls. — Put  three  pints  of 
boiling  water  into  a  stew-pan:  set  it  on  a  hot  stove 
or  coals;  stir  the  water  with  a  stick  until  it  runs  ra- 
pidly around,  then  having  broken  an  egg  into  a  cup 
— taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolk — drop  it  into 
die  whirling  water,  continue  to  stir  it  until  the  egg 
is  cook(^d  ;  then  take  it  into  a  dish  with  a  skimmer 
and  set  it  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  boil  one  at 
a  time,  until  you  have  enough.  These*will  remain 
soft  for  a  long  time. 

Omelet  au  Natural. — Break  eight  or  ten  eggs 
into  a  basin  ;  add  a  small  teaspoon fu I  of  salt  and  a 
little  pepper,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water; 
beat  the  whole  well  with  a  spoon  or  wdiisk.  In 
the  meantime  put  some  fresh  sweet  butter  into  an 
omlet  pan,  and  when  it  is  nearly  hot,  put  in  an  om- 
let;  whilst  it  is  frying,  wdth  a  skimmer  spoon  raise 
the  edges  from  the  pan  that  it  may  be  properly  done. 
When  the  ^^gfi^  are  set  and  one  side  is  a  fine  brown, 
double  it  half  over  and  serve  hot.  These  omlets 
should  be  put  quite  thin  in  the  pan  ;  the  butter  re- 
quired for  each  will  be  about  the  size  of  a  small  egg. 

Stirred  eggs. — Break  eight  or  more  eggs  info  a 
basin,  add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  sweet  butter, 
cut  into  bits  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  make  a  little 
bit  of  butter  hot  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  eggs 
and  let  them  cook.  Stir  them  with  a  silver  spoon 
until  they  are  just  set  without  becoming  hard  or 
brown  ;  serve  over  toast. 


French  Omelet. — Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin, 


168  DUTCH  OMLET. 

season  with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper,  and  if  liked  mace  or  nutmeg ;  add  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream  ;  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter broke  in  bits,  and  a  little  parsley  cut  small,  if 
liked,  also  a  finely  chopped  shalot  or  white  onion 
well  washed. 

Beat  these  ingredients  well  together  with  a  spoon, 
put  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  let  it  become 
boihng  hot,  and  pour  the  omlet  in  about  half  an  inch 
thick ;  as  it  is  cooking  continue  to  stir  it  with  a  spoon, 
drawing  it  from  the  sides  to  the  centre,  that  it  may 
be  evenly  dDne  ;  shake  the  pan  now  and  then  to 
free  the  omlet  from  it ;  let  it  fry  gently  ;  when  it  is 
a  fine  clear  brown,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  serve. 

An  Omelet. — Take  a  rich  meat  gravy,  beat  eggs 
light  and  put  them  to  it;  beat  them  well  together, 
make  a  tablespoonful  of  salted  lard  hot  in  a  frying- 
pan  ;  put  in  the  omlet  half  an  inch  thick  and  fry  it 
a  delicate  brown.  When  one  side  is  done  turn  it 
out  on  a  dish. 

Ha]^i  Omelet. — Chop  some  fat  and  lean  ham  quite 
fine  ;  beat  up  six  or  eight  eggs,  and  stir  the  ham,  (a 
teacupful)  into  them  ;  have  a  tablespoonful  of  lard 
made  hot  in  an  omlet  pan  ;  put  in  the  omlet  and  fry 
it  gently.  Slip  a  knife  around  the  edge  occasion- 
ally, that  it  may  be  done  nicely  ;  then  turn  it  on  a 
dish.  Or,  you  may  make  it  nearly  an  inch  thick, 
and  when  one  side  is  done,  turn  it  and  let  it  brown. 

Spanish  Omelet. — Make  with  Qhopped  ham  as 
above  directed,  add  to  it  two  small  w^hite  oinions 
finely  minced,  and  finish  as  directed. 

Dutch  Omelet. — Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin, 
season   with   pepper  and   salt,  add  two  ounces  of 


SMOKED    BEEP.  169 

butter  cut  small,  beat  these  well  together,  make  an 
ounce  of  butter  hot  in  a  frying-pan,  put  the  eggs  in, 
continue  to  stir  it,  drawing  it  away  from  the  sides, 
that  it  may  be  evenly  done,  shake  it  now  and  then 
to  free  it  from  the  pan  ;  when  the  under  side  is  a 
litlle  browned,  turn  the  omlet  into  a  dish,  and 
serve  ;  this  must  be  done  over  a  moderate  fire. 

Smoked  Beef  with  Eggs. — Cut  some  smoked 
beef  in  thin  shavings  or  chips,  put  them  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan, and  nearly  fill  it  with  hot  water;  set  it  on 
the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  pour  it  off; 
add  to  the  beef  a  good  bit  of  lard,  twice  the  size  of 
an  egg,  for  half  a  pound  of  the  beef;  shake  a  little 
pepper  over,  and  let  it  frj-  for  a  few  minutes  over 
a  quick  fire  ;  then  break  two,  three,  or  more  eggs 
into  it ;  stir  them  together  until  the  eggs  are  done, 
then  turn  it  on  to  a  dish. 

Or  after  frying  the  beef  with  a  little  wheat  flour 
dredged  over,  fry  eggs,  and  serve  with  it  the  same 
as  ham. 

Omelet — May  be  made  of  smoked  beef  chipped 
thin,  first  taking  off  the  outside  skin;  finish  as  di- 
rected for  ham  omlet. 

A  Nice  Breakfast  of  Smoked  Beef. — Pare 

off  the   outside  skin  of  the  beef,  and  shave  it  thin, 

then  put  it  in  a  pan,  and  if  very  salt,  pour  boiling 

water  over  it,  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes,  then 

throw  it  off';  add  to  the  beef  a  large  tablespoonful 

of  lard,  to  half  a  pound  of  it ;  shake  a  little  pepper 

over,  set  it  over  the  fire,  when  it  begins  to  fry  nicely, 

dredge  over  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  wh^at  flour; 

put  to  it  a  teacup  of  boiling   water,  stir  it  togethei 

over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  ;   when  the  gravy  is 

thick,  it  is  done. 

H 


170         PRESERVED  VEGETABLES. 

Have  two  or  three  slices  of  bread  toasted  a  deli- 
cate brown,  cut  them  in  small  squares  or  lozenges, 
and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  then  pour  the  beef 
and  gravy  over;  a  small  bit  of  butter  may  be  put 
to  it  before  putting  it  over  the  toast. 

Frizzed  Beef. — Pare  off  the  outside  skin  of 
the  beef,  and  cut  some  thin  small  slices  or  chips, 
put  ihem  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bright,  clear  fire  of 
coals,  when  ihey  are  hot  and  crisp,  take  them  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  with  butter  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

To  Serve  Smoked  Beef. — Cut  off  tlie  outside 
skin,  shave  the  beef  thin,  and  lay  it  lightly  on  a 
plate,  and  serve  for  tea. 

After  a  piece  of  smoked  beef  has  been  cut,  keep 
it  folded  in  a  coarse  paper,  and  hang  it  up. 

If  smoked  beef  or  mutton,  or  venison  hams 
(which  are  served  in  the  same  manner,)  is  carefully 
cut  evenly  across,  instead  of  cuttirjg  it  carelessly 
at  one  side,  it  will  cut  to  better  advantage,  and 
last  lonfjer. 


VEGETABLES. 

To  Preserve  Vegetables  for  Winter 
Use. — Green  stringed  beans  must  be  picked  when 
young;  put  a  layer  three  inches  deep,  in  a  small 
wooden  keg  or  half  barrel;  sprinkle  in  salt  an  inch 
deep  ;  then  put  another  layer  of  beans,  then  salt, 
arul  beans  and  salt  in  alternate  layers,  until  you 
h:i\  e  en')i!gh  ;  let  the  last  be  salt,  cover  them  with  a 


VEGETABLES.  171 

piece  of  board  which  will  fit  the  inside  of  the  bar- 
rel or  keg  ;  and  place  a  heavy  w^eight  upon  it; 
they  will  make  a  brine. 

When  wanted  for  use,  sonk  them  one  night  or 
more  in  plenty  of  water,  changing  it  once  or  twice, 
until  the  salt  is  out  of  them,  then  cut  them,  and 
boil  the  same  as  when  fresh. 

Carrots,  beans,  beet-roots,  parsnips,  and  pota- 
toes, keep  best  in  dry  sand  or  earth  in  a  cellar; 
turnips  keep  best  on  a  cellar  bottom,  or  they  may 
be  kept  tlie  same  as  carrots,  etc.  Whatever  earth 
i*emains  about  them  when  taken  from  the  ground, 
should  not  be  taken  off. 

When  sprouts  come  on  potatoes  or  other  stored 
vegetables,  ihey  should  be  carefully  cut  offi  The 
young  sprouts  from  turnips  are  sometimes  served  as 
a  salad,  or  boiled  tender  in  salt  and  water,  and 
served  with  butter  and  pepper  over. 

Celery  may  be  kept  all  winter  by  setting  it  in 
boxes  filled  with  earth;  keep  it  in  the  cellar;  it 
will  grow  and  whiten  in  the  dark ;  leeks  may  also 
be  kept  in  this  way. 

Cabbage  set  out  in  earth,  in  a  good  cellar,  will 
keep  good  and  fresh  all  winter.  Small  close  heads 
of  cabbage  may  be  kept  many  weeks,  by  taking 
them  before  the  frost  comes,  and  lavino^  them  on  a 
stone  Hopr  ;  this  will  whiten  them,  and  make  them 
tender. 

Store  onions  are  to  be  strung,  and  hung  in  adrj'', 
cold  place. 

Pumpkin  may  be  kept  for  use,  thus  : — Cut  it 
up,  take  off  the  skin,  and  take  out  the  seeds  ;  put 
a  teacup  of  wateri;  to  a  common  size  pumpkin,  and 
stew  it  to  a  mash,  over  a  slow  fire  ;  let  it  dry  as 
much  as  it  will,  without  burning;  then  take  it  up,  • 
spread  it  in  pans,  or  make  it  in  thin  cakes,  and  dry 
it  in  a  hot   sun,  or  cool  oven,  after  baking  ;  when 


172 


VEGETABLES. 


wanted  for  use,  stew  it  in  milk,  or  pour  hot  milk 
over  it,  ana  let  it  dissolve — then  add  eggs,  &c.,  for 
pies.  Pumpkins  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time,  on 
frames,  in  a  good  dry  cellar ;  or  they  may  be  cut 
up,  and  dried  the  same  as  apples.  They  are  then 
to  be  stewed  with  very  little  water,  and  used  the 
same  as  fresh  pumpkin. 

Parsley  should  be  cut  when  tender,  and  a  deli- 
cate green  ;  then  pack  it  down  in  sweet  butter  ; 
one  pound  of  butter  will  be  enough  for  quarter  of  a 
peck  of  parsley  ;  this  butter  may  be  used  in  drawn 
butter,  or  sauce,  or  for  frjung,  or  fricassee.  In  this 
way,  parsley  may  be  kept  perfectly  green,  and 
fresh,  all  winter. 

Most  vegetables  require  to  be  well  washed,  in 
plenty  of  water.  Green  vegetables  are  good,  in 
proportion  as  they  are  young,  and  fresh  gathered. 

Spinach,  cucumbers,  new  potatoes,  beets,  and 
turnips,  should  be  put  in  cold  water  some  time  be- 
fore cooking,  or  dressing. 

Old  Potatoes,  to  boil. — Wash  them  clean,  in 
two  or  three  waters,  take  off  a  bit  of  the  skin  from 
each  end,  the  size  of  a  two  shilling  piece,  or  cut  off 
a  ring  lengthwise,  from  end  to  end  ;  then  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  or  pot,  and  pour  boiling  water 
over,  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
cover  the  pot  close  ;  let  them  boil  fast  for  half  an 
hour,  for  small  ones,  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
for  large  ;  when  done,  take  them  up.  or  pour  the 
water  off,  and  let  them  set  for  two  or  three  minutes 
to  dry  off;  then  take  the  skins  off,  and  serve  them 
plain,  in  a  covered  dish. 

When  old  potatoes  are  not  very  fine,  take  off  all 
the  skin,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water,  for  an  hour 
before  boiling  ;  skim  the  pot  whilst  boiling  potatoes. 


BOIL    NEW    POTATOES.  173 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Potatoes  are  not  good  for 
mashing,  until  they  are  ftdl  grown  ;  peel  them,  and 
lay  thein  in  water,  for  an  hour  or  more,  before  boil- 
ing, for  mashing. 

Old  potatoes,  when  unfit  for  plain  boiling,  may  be 
served  mashed  ;  cut  out  all  imperfections,  take  off 
all  the  skin,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water,  for  one 
hour,  or  more  ;  then  put  them  into  a  dinner-pot,  or 
stew-pan,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  cover  the 
stew-pan,  and  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  unless 
they  are  large,  when  three-quarters  of  an  hour  will 
be  required  ;  when  they  are  done,  take  them  up 
with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray,  and 
mash  them  fine  with  a  potato  beetle  ;  melt  a  piece 
of  butter,  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  into  half  a  pint 
of  hot  milk  ;  mix  it  with  the  mashed  patotoes  until 
it  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  a  smooth  mass  ; 
then  put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  smooth  the  top  over,  and 
mark  it  neatly  with  a  knife  ;  put  pepper  over,  and 
serve.  The  quantity  of  milk  used,  must  be  in  pro- 
portion 10  the  quantity  of  potatoes. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  heaped  on  a  flat  dish  ; 
make  it  in  a  crown,  or  pine  apple  ;  stick  a  sprig  of 
green  celery,  or  parsley,  in  the  top  ;  or,  first  brown 
it  before  the  fire,  or  in  an  oven. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  made  a  highly  orna- 
mental dish  ;  after  shaping  it,  ^as  taste  may  direct, 
trim  the  edge  of  the  plate  with  a  wreath  of  celery 
leaves,  or  green  parsley  ;  or  first  brown  the  outside 
in  an  oven,  or  before  the  fire. 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes. — Scrape  the  skins 
from  new  potatoes,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water,  for 
an  hour  or  more  ;  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
or  dinner-pot,  and  pour  boiling  water  over,  to  cover 
them  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover  the  pot,  or 
pan,  let  them  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour ;  try  one,  if 


174  FRIED    POTATOES. 

not  quite  done,  cover  for  a  few  minutes,  then  drain 
the  water  off;  let  them  stand  for  a  few  minutes 
ov^er  the  fire  ;  take  them  into  a  (\e^p  dish,  put  a  bit 
of  butter  and  pepper  over,  and  serve  covered. 

Potatoes  in  Haste. — A  very  nice  little  dish 
may  be  made  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  in  a  very  few 
minutes.  Having  peeled,  cut  thena  in  slices,  half 
an  inch  thick,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  pour  boiling 
water  over  then;i  ;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it 
over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  drain  off  all  the 
water,  add  a  small  bit  of  butter,  shake  pepper 
over,  and  serve  hot. 

Or,  having  cut  the  potatoes  in  slices,  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan,  cover  them  with  milk;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Work 
a  large  teaspoon ful  of  butter  with  a  small  one  of 
flour,  and  put  it  to  the  potatoes ;  shake  a  little  pep- 
per over,  and  add  a  little  parsley  cut  fine,  if  Hked. 
Cover  the  stew-yjan  for  ten  minutes,  then  turn  the 
potatoes  into  a  deep  dish,  and  serve  for  breakfast. 

Potatoes  may  be  pared  and  cut  in  slices  and 
boiled  in  water  with  a  little  salt  for  twent}'  minutes, 
then  served  with  butter  and  pepper  over  ;  or  work 
a  teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour  with  a  small  bit  of  but- 
ter, and  put  it  to  the  potatoes  a  few  minutes  before 
they  are  done  ;  then 'shake  a  little  pepper  over  and 
serve. 

Fried  Potatoes. — Boil  some  potatoes  in  their 
skins  ;  when  cold,  peel  them  and  cut  them  in  slices, 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  put  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  lard  or  beef  dripping  into  a  frying  pan,  and  set 
it  over  the  fire  ;  add  pepper  and  salt  according  to 
the  (]nantity  of  potatoes,  (a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  to  a  dozen  small  sized  po- 
tatoes,) when  it  is  boiling  hot,  put  in  enough  sliced 


ROASTED    POTATOES.  175 

potatoes  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan ,  as  soon  as 
one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  turn  the  other  ;  when 
both  are  done,  take  them  into  a  hot  dish  ;  then  fry 
more  :  when  all  are  done,  put  to  them  a  little  of  the 
fat  in  which  they  were  fried,  and  serve. 

Care  is  necessary  in  frying  potatoes  that  they  are 
nicely  and  delicately  browned,  without  being  burned 
or  cooked  to  a  crisp  ;  for  breakfast  or  supper,  fried 
potatoes  are  much  liked. 

Potatoes  may  be  fried  with  less  time  or  trouble 
thus  :  peel  them  and  chop  them  small,  make  some 
lard  hot  in  the  pan;  add  salt  and  pepper  as  before 
directed,  then  put  the  potatoes  in  ;  turn  them  that 
they  may  be  nicely  browned.  Serve  in  a  covered 
dish. 

Hashed  Potatoes. — Peel  and  chop  some  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
a  very  little  milk  or  water  to  moisten  them  ;  put  to 
them  a  small  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  and  salt,  to 
taste;  cover  the  stew-pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  stir  them 
once  or  twice  whilst  cooking.  Serve  hot  for  break- 
fast. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Take  as  many  large  and 
equal  sized  potatoes  as  you  wish  ;  wash  them  per- 
fectly clean  in  two  or  three  changes  of  water,  then 
wipe  them  dry,  and  put  them  in  a  quick  oven  for 
one  hour  ;  serve  with  cold  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Roasted  Potatoes. — Wash  perfectly  clean  as 
many  potatoes  of  equal  size  as  you  wish  ;  make 
clean  a  place  on  a  hot  hearth  where  wood  is  burnt, 
lay  the  potatoes  down  and  cover  them  with  hot 
ashes;  if  not  very  near  the  fire,  add  fresh  embers 
occasionally  ;  half  an  hour  or  three  quarters  will 


176  BOILED    SWEET    POTATOES. 

roast  them,  according  to  their  size ;  when  done 
wipe  them  clean,  and  serve  with  cold  butter,  salt 
and  pepper.  Serve  with  cold  meat  for  breakfast, 
dinner  or  supper. 

Broiled  Potatoes. — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes 
in  slices  lengthwise,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  dip 
each  slice  in  wheat  flour,  and  lay  them  on  a  grid- 
iron over  a  bright  fire  of  coals;  when  both  sides  are 
browned  nicely,  take  them  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  bit 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  over,  and  serve 
hot. 

Sweet  or  Carolina  Potatoes. — The  best 
sweet  potatoes  are  from  the  southern  states ;  those 
raised  in  New  Jersey  are  not  nearly  as  sweet  as 
those  from  the  south. 

The  best  ^nanner  of  serving  sweet  potatoes  is 
roasted  or  baked. 

To  Bake  Sweet  Potatoes. — Wash  them  per- 
fectly clean,  wipe  them  dry,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven,  according  to  their  size — half  an  hour  for  quite 
small  size,  three-quarters  for  larger,  and  a  full  hour 
for  the  largest.  Let  the  oven  have  a  good  heat, 
and  do  not  open  it,  unless  it  is  necessary  to  turn 
them,  until  they  are  done. 

Roasted  Sweet  Potatoes. — Having  washed 
them  clean,  and  wiped  them  dry,  roast  them  on  a 
hot  hearth  as  directed  for  common  potatoes  ;  or  put 
them  in  a  dutch*oven,  or  tin  reflector.  Roasted  or 
baked  potatoes  should  not  be  cut,  but  broken  open 
and  eaten  from  the  skin,  as  from  a  shell. 

To  Boil  Sweet  Potatoes. — Wash  them  per- 
fectly clean,  put  them  into  a  pot  or  stew-pan,  and 


SUMMER    SQUASH.  177 

pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover  them ;  cover  the 
pot  close,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour  ;  or  more  if 
the  potatoes  are  large ;  try  them  with  a  fork ;  when 
done,  drain  off  the  water,  take  off  the  skins,  and 
serve. 

Cold  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  across 
or  lengthwise,  and  fried  or  broiled  as  common  po- 
tatoes ;  or  they  may  be  cut  in  half  and  served  cold. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  made  pie  of,  the  same  as 
pumpkin  pie. 

Young  Turnips. — Cut  off  the  green  leaver  ot 
new  turnips,  leaving  an  inch  or  more  of  the  stalks ; 
pare  them,  and  trim  them  neatly,  then  put  them 
into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  w^ith  a  teaspoon ful  of 
salt;  cover  the  pot,  and  let  them  boil  fast  for  half 
an  hour,  or  until  perfectly  tender;  put  butter  and 
pepper  over,  and  serve  hot.  Or  serve  with  drawn 
butter  over. 

RuTA  Baga — Or  large  wmter  turnip,  may  be 
cut  in  quarters  or  slices,  and  boiled  with  meat,  and 
served  with  a  little  butter  and  pepper  over;  or 
boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt;  take  off  the  thick 
outside  rind,  and  cut  them  in  quarters  or  slices,  and 
boil  them  for  an  half  an  hour  or  more,  until  they 
are  soft ;  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  mash  them 
fine,  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  to  taste,  work 
them  smooth,  then  put  them  into  a  covered  dish, 
smooth  the  upper  surface  over,  and  mark  it  with  a 
knife  blade  in  flutes,  meeting  in  the  centre,  or  make 
it  in  a  pyramid  or  pine-apple,  and  serve. 

Summer  Squash. — ^Young  green  squashes  must 
be  fresh  to  be  fit  for  eating ;  if  they  are  so,  the  out- 
side will  be  crisp  when  cut  with  the  nail. 

Cut  them  in  quarters,  and   if  not  very  tenden 
12  H* 


17S  CABBAGE    SPROUTS. 

pare  o9*  ihe  outside  skin  ;  take  the  seeds  and  strings 
from  the  inside,  and  cut  the  sqnshes  small, then  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  te  ispoonful  of  salt  to  a 
common  sized  squash  ;  pour  boiling  water  on  nearly 
to  cover  them,  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  them  boil 
fast,  until  they  are  tender,  half  an  hour  is  generally 
enough  ;  take  them  from  the  water  into  a  cullen- 
der with  a  skimmer,  press  the  water  from  them, 
then  take  them  on  to  a  dish,  mash  them  smooth, 
add  a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  them 
into  a  dish,  and  serve. 

%^ 

WixTER  Squash. — Cut  the  large  yellow  or  win- 
ter squash  small,  take  oft^the  outside  skin,  and  the 
inside  strings  and  seeds  ;  then  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  hot  water  to  cover  it,  cover  the  stew-pan 
for  half  an  hour  or  longer,  until  they  are  tender, 
take  them  into  a  cullender  with  a  skimmer,  press 
out  the  water,  then  take  them  into  a  dish  and  mash 
them  j>erfectly  smooth,  add  a  good  bit  of  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  make  it  in  a  neat 
form  the  same  as  mashed  turnips  or  potatoes ;  but 
do  not  brown  it;  put  pepper  over  in  spots,  and  gar- 
nish with  sprigs  of  parsley,  or  celery  leaves,  if  you 
wish  it  ornamental. 

Sprouts  AND  Greens. — Cabbage  sprouts,  young 
beet-tops,  and  the  green  leaves  of  young  turnips, 
are  boiled  with  salt  meats,  or  in  clear  water,  with 
a  little  salt. 

Cabbage  Sprouts. — The  leaves  must  be  cut 
from  the  stalk  end,  and  washed  in  plenty  of  water, 
let  the  water  boil  when  they  are  put  in,  and  boil 
fast  for  half  an  hour;  when  done,  take  them  from 
the  water  into  a  cullender,  press  all  the  water  from 
them,  chop  them,  and  serve   them  with  a  salad 


OLD     BEETS-  179 

dressing,  or  with  roasted  meat,  to  be  eaten  xriihthe 
g^a^'y,  and  vinegar  and  mustard.  These  greens 
are  generally  boiled  with  salt  beef  or  port,  and 
-raien  with  vinegar. 

Or,  they  may  be  served  in  this  manner:  having 
boiled,  and  pressed  all  the  water  fix>m  them,  lay 
them  close  on  a  steak  dish  ;  fiy  some  steaks  or 
cutlets,  or  some  sUces  of  ham  or  sausages,  lay  them 
on  the  greens,  and  pour  the  gravy  over-  Vinegar 
may  be  added  at  table  by  those  who  like  it. 

The  tops  of  young  beets  are'^next  in  delicarv  :: 
spinach-  After  nicely  boiling,  and  pressiLa^tze 
water  from  them,  put  them  into  a  covered  msh; 
put  bits  of  butter  and  pepper  over,  and  ser\e.  Or. 
boil  beet-tops  with  salt  fat  meat,  press  the  water 
from  them,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

TorxG  Beets. — Wash  fi^sh  pulled  young  beets; 
break  the  tops  fix>m  them,  pick  from  them  all  the 
withered  leaves,  and  put  them  with  the  beets  into 
a  pot  of  hot  water,  cover  it,  and  let  them  boil  fast 
for  half  an  hour,  or  longer  if  the  beets  are  large; 
then  take  the  tops  into  a  cullender,  and  press  all 
the  water  from  them ;  take  the  beets  into  a  pan  rf 
cold  water,  and  rub  off  the  skin  with  the  hand  ;  put 
the  pressed  tops  in  a  dish,  shce  the  beets  over ; 
make  a  small  cup  of  vinegar  hot,  with  a  bit  of  but 
ter  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  put  a  small  teaspoonfial 
of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper  to  it,  then  pour  it  over 
the  beets  and  tops,  and  serve.  Wh^i  the  stalks  of 
beet-tops  are  long,  cut  them  from  the  beets  and  the 
leaves,  tie  them  in  bundles,  and  boil,  and  serve  like 
asparagus,  with  a  little  white  sauce,  or  drawn  bntter 
over,  serve  the  beets  in  deep  vegetable  dishes,  with 
the  same  sauce.  ^ 

Old  Beets, — Winter  beets  should  be  pnt  in  cdd 
water  over  night  to  take  off  the  earthy  taste  which 


180  SPINACH. 

they  are  apt  to  have ;  before  boiling  wash  them 
clean,  put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and 
boil  fast ;  if  not  very  large,  one  hour  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  them ;  should  they  be  very  large,  one  hour 
and  a  half  or  two  hours  will  be  required  ;  when 
done  take  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  rub  the 
skins  off  with  the  hands,  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices, 
put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  strew  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  over  and  pour  on  cold  vinegar  nearly  to 
cover  them;  prepare  them  an  hour  before  serving, 
with  roasted  or  fried  meat ;  if  to  be  served  with 
col^)r  boiled  meat,  make  a  cup  of  vinegar  hot,  put 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  it;  add  peppei 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot.  Winter  beets  may 
be  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  and  pickled  by  covering 
them  with  cold  vinegar. 

Beets  must  be  washed,  but  never  cut  before  boil- 
ing, else  they  will  lose  their  fine  color. 

Spinach. — Take  off  every  discolored  leaf  from 
the  bunches  ;  put  them  into  a  large  pan  or  pail  of 
water,  and  wash  each  cluster  of  leaves  separately, 
shaking  it  well  in  the  water,  otherwise  it  will  be 
gritty  or  sandy  ;  washing  it  in  this  way,  through 
two  waters,  will  generally  be  enough  ;  have  a  large 
kettle  of  water  boiling  fast,  put  in  the  spinach, 
press  it  down ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  bit 
of  saleratus,  the  size  of  a  pea,  to  a  peck  of  spinach  ; 
cover  the  pot  and  let  it  boil  fast  for  fifteen  minutes, 
it  will  sink  when  done  ;  then  take  it  into  a  cullender 
with  a  skimmer,  press  the  water  from  it,  cut  it 
small  with  a  knife,  press  it  again,  put  a  good  bit  of 
butter  and  a  little  pepper  to  it ;  put  it  into  a  deep 
dish,  smooth  the-  surfice  over,  let  it  rise  high  in  the 
centre,  cut  a  cold  boiled  egg  in  slices  and  lay  them 
over,  serve  hot  with  a  cover  ;  or  it  may  be  served 
on  a  flat  dish  ;  put  it  neatly  on,  lay  hard  boiled  and 


MARROW-FAT  PEAS.  ISl 

sliced  egg  over.  Spinach  is  boiled  with  salt  beef, 
pork  or  ham.  After  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  up  and 
press  it  between  two  plates  that  it  may  cut  nicely, 
meanwhile,  put  the  spinach  into  the  pot,  let  it  boil 
fast  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  take  it  into  a  cullender, 
press  all  the  water  from  it,  cut  it  small,  and  serve 
with  the  meat.  To  be  served  with  fried  meat  and 
gravy :  boil  it  in  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
press  the  water  from  it  and  serve. 

Green  Peas. — Shell  green  peas,  until  you  have 
a  quart ;  half  a  peck  in  the  shells  will  ger^ally 
produce  a  quart  of  shelled  peas.  Put  filing 
water  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
cover  the  stewpan  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour  ; 
then  take  one  between  your  fingers,  if  it  will  mash 
easily,  they  are  done ;  drain  off  the  water,  take  them 
into  a  deep  dish,  put  to  them  a  small  teacup  or 
less  of  sweet  butter  and  a  little  pepper ;  a  small  tea- 
spoonful of  white  sugar  is  a  great  improvement ; 
serve  hot.  Small  young  potatoes,  nicely  scraped, 
may  be  boiled  and  served  with  them,  or  in  a 
separate  dish  with  a  litlle  butter  over. 

Lamb  and  peas  is  a  favorite  disl\,in  the  spring  of 
the  year  ;  they  are  nice  with  poultry,  veal,  and 
mutton.  A  bit  of  saleratus  or  carbonate  of  soda, 
the  size  of  a  pea,  put  with  green  vegetables,  im- 
proves the  color,  and  renders  them  more  healthful ; 
fast  boiling  keeps  the  color  good. 

Marrow-fat  Peas — iVre  the  late  sort,  and  as 
their  name  indicates,  are  much  richer  in  taste. 
The  shell  of  these  is  more  of  a  yellowish  green, 
and  has  a  roughness,  which  the  earlier  peas  have 
not;  they  should  be  young,  and  fresh  picked.  The 
early  pea  has  a  shell  of  brighter  green  and  smooth, 
and  is  very  inferior  in  taste,  but  recommend  them- 


1S3  ASPARAGUS   SALAD. 

selves  by  their  forwardness,  that  being  their  dis- 
ungiiishing  merit.  The  marrow-fat  peas  are  dressed 
the  same  as  the  early  peas. 

Asparagus.— Choose  green  stalks  of  asparagras, 
the  largest  are  best;  cut  off  the  white  tough  part, 
wash  the  green  in  cold  water,  and  tie  it  in  small 
bundles,  that  they  may  be  taken  up  without  danger 
of  breaking;  put  them  in  hot  w^ater  wdth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  let  them  boil  fast  for  half  an 
hour  ;  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  a  delicate 
brov^;  cut  off"  the  extreme  outside  crust,  butter 
eacn^lice  freely;  then  lay  them  on  small  oval 
dishes;  untie  the  asparagus,  and  lay  it  on  the 
toast ;  butter  it  a  little,  sprinkle  pepper  over  and 
serve.  Or  it  may  be  served  w^ithout  the  toast ;  the 
toast  may  be  moistened  by  putting  a  little  of  the 
water  in  which  the  asparagus,  but  boiled,  over  it. 

Vinegar  is  eaten  with  asparagus  was  it  is  gene- 
rally added  at  table  by  such  as  like  it. 

Asparagus  maybe  laid  on  plain  toast;  and  a  little 
drawn  butter  poured  over  both. 

Asparagus  ^tewed. — Cut  the  green  part  of  a 
bunch  of  asparagus  in  inch  or  half  inch  lengths  ; 
put  it  into  a  stew-pan  and  let  it  boil  fast  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  pour  very  nearly  all  the  water  off", 
work  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  then  stir  them  into  the  asparagus.  Add  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste  ;  cover  the  stsw-pan  for  five 
minutes  ;  and  serve  poured  over  toast. 

Asparagus  Salad. — Divide  a  bunch  of  green 
asparagus  into  small  bundles  ;  tie  them,  and  put 
them  in  hot  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  let 
the.m  boil  fast  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  until 
they  are  tender  ;  when  done,  take  them  into  a  salad 


BEAN  AND  CORN  SUCCATASH.   •     1S3 

bowl ;  make  a  small  teacup  of  vinegar  hot,  put  a 
bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  (or  a  teaspoon ful 
of  sweet  oil)  to  it,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard ;  stir  them  well  together,  and  pour  it  over  the 
salad. 

Green  Beans. — Cut  the  bud  and  stem  end  off, 
and  take  the  strings  from  the  sides  of  stringed  beans; 
cut  them  in  inch  lengths,  wash  them  in  cold  water, 
then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  of  hot  water,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  them 
boil  fast  for  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ^take 
one  up,  if  it  will  mash  easily  when  pressed  between 
the  thumb  and  finger,  they  are  done.  Drain  off 
the  water,  add  sweet  butter  and  pepper  to  taste  ; 
bnt  some  nicely  toasted  bread  in  squares  or  dia- 
monds, lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  serve  the  beans 
over. 

Green  beans  when  good,  will  be  a  bright  color, 
and  crisp  when  broken.  They  should  be  fresh 
picked. 

Beans  and  Corn,  called  Succatash* — Take 
the  husks  and  silk  from  a  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn, 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  kernels  from  the  cob, 
scrape  gently  what  remains  on  the  cob  with  the 
knife  blade  ;  string  a  quart  or  more  of  green  beans, 
and  cut  them  in  inch  lengths  or  shorter;  wash  them 
and  put  them  to  the  corn  ;  put  them,  with  the  corn, 
into  a  stew-pan,  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or 
water ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  them  boil  rather 
gently  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  add  a 
teacup  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper;  stir  them  well  together;  cover 
it  for  ten  minutes  ;  take  the  beans  and  corn  into  a 
dish,  with  more  or  less  of  the  liquid,  as  may  be 
liked. 


IS4  MASHED    CARROTS. 

This  dish  may  be  made  without  butter,  by  sub- 
stituting half  a  pound  of  nicely  corned  fat  pork, 
washed  in  cold  water,  and  cut  in  slices  as  thin  as  a 
knife  blade.     No  other  salt  is  required. 

Lima  beans  and  sweet  corn  make  the  finest  suc- 
catash. 

Lima  Beans. — Lay  a  quart  of  shelled  Lima 
beans  in  cold  water  lor  one  hour  ;  then  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  to 
cover  them ;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  let  it  boil  fast 
for  h^lf  an  hour  ;  then  take  one  betw^een  \^our  fin- 
ger and  thumb,  if  it  wdll  mash  easily,  it  is  done ; 
drain  off*  nearly  all  the  water,  add  a  small  teacup 
of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper; 
cover  them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then 
sa've  hot. 

Carrots. — When  young  and  small,  carrots  need 
onl}^  be  washed  without  scraping ;  leave  on  about 
an  inch  length  of  the  green  ;  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  hot  water  to  cover  them,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  :  let  them  boil  fast  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  take  them  into  a  dish,  put  butter  and  pepper 
over,  and  serve,  with  boiled  meat  or  poultry. 

Old  or  Winter  Carrots — Must  be  scraped 
and  washed  clean  ;  then  boil  them  tender,  slice 
them,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over. 

Carrots  may  be  sliced  before  boiling,  and  served 
in  the  same  manner.  Carrots  are  mostly  used  for 
soups. 

Carrots  Mashed. — Scrape  off  the  skin,  wash 
them  and  boil  them  tender  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
then  take  them  up  w^ith  a  skimmer,  mash  them 
smooth,  add  butter,  pepper,  and  a  little  salt ;  make 


PARSNIP    FRITTERS.  l^O 

them  in  a  form  with  a  knife  blade,  and  serve,  with 
boiled  or  roast  meat. 

Cauliflower  Salad. — Boil  cauliflower  In 
water,  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender,  drain  it  in  a 
cullender,  cut  it  small,  put  it  in  a  salad  bowl,  and 
serve  with  a  salad  dressing,  cold  or  hot. 

Cauliflower. — Cut  off  the  stalks,  boil  the  cau- 
liflower in  milk  and  water  until  it  is  tender,  make 
a  drawn  butter  and  serve  over  it,  or  put  bits  of 
butter  over,  strew  pepper  over,  and  serve  hot. 

Parsnips. — Young  parsnips  require  only  to  be 
scraped  before  boiling,  old  ones  must  be  pared 
thin  and  sliced,  when  tender,  put  butter  and  pep- 
per over,  and  serve.  Parsnips  may  be  boiled  or 
stewed  with  salt  meat. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Boil  whole  parsnips  until 
they  are  tender,  then  skin  them,  and  cut  them  in 
sHces  lengthwise,  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness: 
have  a  little  lard  or  beef  dripping,  made  hot  in  a 
frying-pan,  salt  it  (in  proportion,  a  tablespoonful  to 
a  pound,)  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  lay  the  slices  in; 
when  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  turn  the  other ; 
when  both  are  done,  take  them  on  to  a  dish,  sprin- 
kle a  little  pepper  over,  put  over  a  very  little  of  the 
fat  in  which  they  were  fried,  and  serve  hot  fox 
breakfast  or  dinner,  with  fried  or  roast  meat. 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Boil  four  or  five  parsnips; 
when  tender,  take  off  the  skin  and  mash  them  fine, 
add  to  them  a  teaspoon ful  of  wheat  flour  and  a 
beaten  egg ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  beef 
dripping  in  a  frying-pan  over  the  fire,  add  to  it  a 
saltSDOonful  of  salt ;  when   boiling   hot,  put  in  the 


186  COLOSLAW. 

parsnips,  make  it  in  small  cakes  with  a  spoon ; 
when  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  turn  the  other ; 
when  both  are  done,  take  them  on  a  dish,  put  a 
very  little  of  the  fat  in  w^hich  they  were  fried  over, 
and  serve  hot.  These  resemble  very  nearly  the 
taste  of  the  salsify  or  oyster  plant,  and  will  gener- 
ally be  preferred. 

Celery. — Put  a  bunch  of  celery  in  cold  water, 
cut  it  loose  from  the  stalk  end  ;  cut  off  the  green 
part  and  any  imperfections,  and  serve  in  a  celery 
glass,  with  vinegar,  oil,  and  made  mustard  in  the 
castor.  Or  cut  the  white  part  in  thin  slices  across, 
and  put  it  into  a  salad  bowl  or  deep  dish,  put  a 
wreath  of  the  most  delicate  leaves  around  the  edge, 
put  a  sprig  in  the  middle,  and  pour  a  salad  dressing 
over  the  whole. 

Salad  Dressing.  —  Take  the  yolk  of  a  hard 
boiled  egg,  break  it  fine  with  a  silver  fork,  add  to 
it  the  yolk  of  an  uncooked  egg,  and  a  teaspooiiful 
of  salt  with  half  as  much  tine  pepper,  and  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  made  mustard,  work  them  smoothly 
together,  adding  gradually  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
oil,  and  the  same  of  white  wine  vinegar.  A  larger 
proportion  of  oil  and  vinegar  may  be  used  if  liked. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Take  a  fine  hard  head  of 
white  cabbage,  cut  it  in  two,  and  shave  it  across 
as  fine  as  possible,  with  a  sharp  knife,  put  it  in  a 
salad  bowl,  and  pour  the  dressing  over. 

This  is  very  good  when  celery  cannot  be  had, 
and  far  less  expensive. 

This  may  be  served  with  stewed  oysters,  boiled 
or  roasted  poultry  or  meat,  and  with  lobster. 

CoLDSLAW. — Cut  a  hard  white  head  of  cab- 
bage in  two,  shave  one  half  as  finely  as  possible. 


RADISHES.  187 

and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  small  teaspoonfal  of  salt,  and 
nearly  as  much  pepper ;  add  to  it  a  wine-glass  of 
vinegar  ;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  over  a  gen- 
tle heat  for  five  minutes,  shake  the  stew-pan  about ; 
when  heated  through,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  serve 
as  a  salad. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Trim  off  all  the  outside 
leaves  of  a  head  of  cabbage,  cut  it  in  quarters,  and 
put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt ;  cover  the  pot  close,  and  let  the  cabbage 
boil  fast  for  half  an  hour,  or  it  may  require  ten 
minutes  longer ;  when  the  stalks  are  tender,  take  it 
up  on  to  a  cullender,  press  it  slightly,  to  free  it 
from  water,  put  a  little  butter  and  pepper  over  it, 
and  serve* 

Or  after  having  bqiled  it,  chop  it  fine,  put  a  bit 
of  butter  and  some  pepper  to  it,  and  serve  hot  in  a 
covered  dish.  " 

Red  Cabbage. — This  is  eaten  as  a  salad,  pre- 
pared as  directed  for  cabbage  salad  or  coldslaw, 
or  shaved  fine  and  pickled. 

Radishes. — Radishes  are  of  three  sorts;  the 
long  red,  the  small  button  or  turnip  radish,  and  the 
winter  or  white  radish. 

^Radishes  should  be  fresh  pulled,  and  tender,  to 
be  in  perfection  for  the  palate,  or  to  be  healthful ; 
to  many  persons  they  are  positively  injurious. 

To  prepare  them  for  the  table,  cut  off  all  the 
leaves,  leaving  about  an  inch  of  the  stalk,  trim  them 
neatly,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour, 
serve  the  long  ones  in  a  tumbler  or  celery  glass 
half  filled  with  water;  serve  the  small  ones  on  a 
plate  ;  they  are  generally  eaten  with  salt  only  ;  they 


ISS  ARTICHOKES. 

may  be  served  cvit  in  thin  slices,  with  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt  over. 

Lettuce. — The  early  lettuce,  and  first  fine 
salad  are  five  or  six  leaves  in  a  cluster  ;  their  early 
appearance  is  their  greatest  recommendation  ;  cab- 
bao:e  or  white  heart  lettuce  is  later  and  much  more 
delicate  ;  break  the  leaves  apart  one  by  one  fi'om 
the  stalk  and  throw  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water; 
rinse  them  well,  lay  them  into  a  salad  bowl  or  a 
deep  dish,  lay  the  largest  leaves  first,  put  the  next 
size  upon  them,  then  lay  on  the  finest  white  leaves  ; 
cut  hard  boiled  eggs  in  slices  or  quarters  and  lay 
them  3.1  equal  distances  around  the  edge  and  over 
the  salad  ;  serve  with  vinegar,  oil,  and  made 
mustard  in  the  castor. 

Or,  having  picked  and  washed  the  lettuce,  cut 
the  leaves  small  ;  put  the  cut  galad  in  a  glass  dish 
or  bowl,  pour  a  salad  dressing  over  and  serve  ;  or, 
garnish  with  small  red  radishes,  cut  in  halves  or 
slices,  and  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters  or 
slices  ;  pour  a  salad  dressing  over  w^hen  ready  to 
serve. 

Serve  with  boiled  lobster,  boiled  fowls,  or  roasted 
lamb  or  veal. 

Artichokes. — These  are  eaten  the  same  as 
radishes,  but  more  generally  sliced  thin,  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar. 

Artichokes  are  served  boiled  the  same  as  turnips: 
that  is,  wash  and  pare  them,  throw  them  into  a  pot 
of  boiling  w^ater,  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then 
.ake  them  up  with  a  skimmer  into  a  vegetable 
dish,  put  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over,  or  serve 
with  drawn  butter  over.  White  or  winter  radishes 
may  be  boiled  the  same  as  artichokes. 


TO  BOIL  ONIONS.  189 

Cucumbers. — Cucumbers  are  very  unwholesome 
h  3ot  perfectly  fresh  gathered,  which  maybe  ascer- 
tained :  press  the  finger  nail  into  the  rind,  and  if 
fresh  it  will  be  crisp,  if  it  is  tough  or  withered,  the 
cucumber  is  stale. 

Cucumbers  are  eaten  with  salt  only,  oj  sliced, 
with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Cut  off  an  inch  of 
the  stem  end,  pare  off  all  the  green  outside  or  rind, 
and  lay  them  in  cold  water  or  on  ice  for  an  hour  or 
more ;  when  served  cut  them  in  quarters  from  end 
to  end,  or  cut  them  in  slices  not  thicker  than  a  dol- 
lar piece,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  strew  a  little 
salt  and  pepper  over,  and  nearly  cover  them  with 
good  vinegar,  when  ready  to  serve. 

Young  green  onions  are  sometimes  peeled  and 
cut  In  thin  slices,  and  served  with  cucumbers. 

Shalots,  or  Green  Onioxs. — Take  off  the  outer 
skin  or  leaf;  cut  off  all  but  about  an  inch  or  two  of 
the  green  part,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour,  then  take  them  from  the  water  on  to  a  plate, 
and  serve  with  salt. 

Or,  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  sprinkle  salt  and 
pepper  over,  and  vlflegar  nearly  to  cover  them. 

Winter,  or  Store  Onions. — White  onions  are 
used  for  boiling  or  pickling  ;  red  onions  are  eaten, 
cut  in  thiu  slices ;  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  ifcfour,  then  throw  it  off;  put  salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar  over ;  or  cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  as 
previously  directed,  with  liver  or  beef. 

To  Boil  Onions  — Take  off  the  skin  and  outer 
shell  until  they  are  white,  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  (to  a  dozen,  medium  size) 
and  hot  water  to  cover  them ;  cover  the  stewpan 


190  TO  BOIL  GREEN  CORX. 

and  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they  are 
tender,  then  take  them  into  a  dish  with  a  skimmer, 
put  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  to  them  ; 
sprinkle  pepper  over,  and  serve. 

Boiled  onions  are  served  with  roast  fowl,  goose, 
or  turkey,  or  boiled  or  roast  mutton. 

To  Boil  Green  Corn. — Get  the  short,  full  ears 
of  sweet  or  sugar  corn,  trim  off  all  the  husks, 
leaving  only  the  last  inside  leaves  ;  have  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
each  quart ;  put  in  the  corn  and  let  it  boil  fast  for 
half  an  hour,  if  young  and  tender,  or  longer  if  less 
tender;  when  done,  drain  off  all  the  water,  take  off 
the  remaining  husks  ;  lay  a  napkin  on  a  large  dish, 
lay  the  corn  on,  turn  the  corners  of  the  napkin 
over  it,  and  serve,  to  eat  with  salt  and  cold  butter. 

Or  break  each  ear  of  corn  in  pieces,  about  two 
inches  long,  or  break  each  ear  in  two,  tie  them  in  a 
cloth  and  put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  with 
a  small  tablespoonfulof  salt;  let  it  boil  fast  for  half 
an  hour  if  young  and  tender,  or  longer,  if  necessa- 
ry ;  some  corn  will  require  a  full  hour.  When  done 
take  it  from  the  water,  and  serve,  folded  in  a  napkin. 

Corn  ma}-  be  served  in  the  following  manner  : — 

Take  off  all  the  husks,  then  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  it  from  the  cob  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a 
teacup  of  water,  to  a  quart  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob  , 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  forpne  hour ; 
then  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  pepper 
and  salt  to.  taste,  and  serve  hot. 

Sweet  or  sugar  corn  is  best  for  boiling.  The 
ears  are  short  and  full,  and  the  grains,  w^hen  broken 
by  the  finger  nail,  are  full  of  a  sweet,  milky  fluid. 

Common  large  ears  of  white  corn  may  be  im- 
proved by  putting  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  to 


MUSHROOMS.  191 

the  boiling  water.  Or  it  may  be  cut  from  the  cob, 
and  finished  as  directed  above,  with  the  addition 
of  the  sugar. 

EoASTED  Green  Corn. — Strip  off  all  the  husk 
from  green  com,  and  roast  it  on  a  gridiron,  over  a 
bright  fire  of  coals,  turning  it  as  one  side  is  done. 
Or,  if  a  wood  fire  is  used,  make  a  place  ^anin  the 
front  of  the  fire  ;  lay  the  corn  down,  turn  it  when  one 
side  is  done ;  serve  with  salt  and  butter. 

Salsify,  or.  Vegetable  Oyster. — Boil  and 
serve  as  directed  for  parsnips  ;  either  plain  boiled, 
or  fried,  or  made  fritters. 

Ego  Plant. — Cut  an  egg  plant  in  thin  slices, 
pare  off  the  purple  rind,  then  strew  each  slice  with 
salt,  and  lay  them  together  on  a  plate,  placed  slan- 
ting that  the  liquor  which  exudes  may  run  off,  after 
an  hour  rinse  the  slices,  wipe  them  dry,  dip  each 
slice  in  batter  or  flour,  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  turn- 
ing them  that  each  side  may  be  a  nice  brown,  fry 
in  seasoned  fat  or  lard,  or  sweet  butter. 

Mushrooms. — Mushrooms  for  eating  grow  in  open 
pasture  lands.  Those  which  grow  near  or  under 
trees,  are  poisonous. 

Good  mushrooms  first  appear  very  small,  of  a 
round  form,  on  a  small  stalk ;  they  grow  very  ra- 
pidly. The  upper  part  and  the  stalk  are  white  ; 
as  they  increase  in  size  the  under  part  gradually 
opens,  and  shows  a  fringed  fir  of  a  fine  salmon  co- 
lor, which  continues  more  or  less  until  the  mush- 
room has  gained  some  size,  and  then  changes  to  a 
dark  brown. 

These  marks  should  be  attended  to;  and  like- 
wise whether  the  skin  can  be  easily  parted  from 
the  edge  and  middle,  and  whether  they  have  a 
pleasant  smell. 

Those  which  are  poisonous,  have  a  j^ellowish 
skin,  and  the  under  part- has  not  the  clear  salmon 


192  HOMINY. 

color  of  genuine  mushrooms.     They  have  also  a 
rank  smell,  and  the  fringe  or  fur  is  white  or  yellow. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. — Choose  the  largest  sort, 
lay  them  on  a  small  gridiron  over  bright  coals  ;  the 
stalk  upwards.  Broil  quickly,  and  serve,  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt  over. 

Hominy. — There  are  three  sizes  of  hominy;  the 
middle  size  is  best. 

Wash  a  small  teacup  of  hominy  in  plent}^  of  wa- 
ter, rubbing  it  between  the  hands  ;  all  that  is  not 
good  will  rise  to  the  top ;  drain  off  the  first  water, 
then  add  more  ;  stir  it  in  this  ;  let  it  settle  and  pour 
off  the  water;  then  put  to  it  a  quart  of  water,  cover 
it  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  add  to 
it  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt,  and  set  the  vessel  which 
contains  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire. 
One  hour  will  boil  it.  The  reason  for  putting  the 
vessel  in  water  is,  that  otherwise  it  is  very  liable  to 
burn.  It  may  be  set  in  an  oven,  or  over  a  very 
gentle  heat,  without  danger  of  burning.  When  all 
the^jvater  is  absorbed,  stir  it  well  with  a  spoon, 
turn  it  out  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  it  and  serve  fpr. 
breakfast,  with  broiftd  steak,  stewed  clams, 'fried  * 
oysters,  or  chickens. 

This  is  extremely  palateable  and  wholesome, 
and  much  liked,  though  not  generally  known. 

Some  homm}^  is  much  sweeter  than  other.  It 
may  be  eaten  with  butter  fjr  breakfast,  or  with  a 
sauce  of  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg  Tor  dessert,  the 
same  as  rice.  Coarse  hominy  requires  five  or  six 
hours  boihng.  Cooked  with  dried  beans  and  pork, 
it  is  called  succatash. 

Tomatoes. — These  are  cooked  and  dressed  in  a 
variety  of  ways.  l* 


BROILED    TOMATOES.  193 

Tomatoes  may  be  sliced  thin,  and  served  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  over,  for  breakfast ;  or 
sliced,  and  strewn  with  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg, 
for  tea  ;  for  dinner  they  may  be  stewed  or  broiled, 
or  baked. 

Tomatoes  may  be  preserved  in  sugar,  or  as  cat- 
sup, when  out  of  season.  Such  as  like  them,  de- 
clare them  to  be  equally  excellent  in  each  and 
every  form  or  dressing. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Pour  boiling  water  over 
six  or  eight  large  tomatoes,  or  a  greater  number  of 
small  ones  ;  let  them  remain  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  peel  off  the  skins,  squeeze  out  the  seeds,  and 
some  of  the  juice,  by  pressing  ihem  gently  in  the 
hand  ;  put  them  in  a  well  tinned  stew-pan,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  a  bit  of 
butter,  half  as  large  as  an  egg,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  grated  bread  or  rolled  crackers  ;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  close,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  nearly  an 
hour,  shake  the  stew-pan  occasionally,  that  they 
may  not  burn  ;  serve  hot. 

This  is  decidedly  the  best  manner  of  stewing 
tomatoes;  they  may  be  done  without  the  bread 
crumbs,  and  with  less  stewing*  if  preferred. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Wash  five  or  six  smooth 
tomatoes,  cut  a  piece  from  the  stem  end,  the  size  of 
a  twenty-five  cent  piece,  put  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
half  as  much  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg,  in  each ;  set  them  in  a  dish  or  pan,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  nearly  one  hour. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. — Having  broiled    a    steak 
of  beef,  ham,  veal  or  lamb,  on  one  side,  turn  it ;  lay 
sliced  tomatoes  over  it,  sprinkle  a  httle  pepper  and 
13  I 


194  HORSE-RADISH. 

salt  over,  and  when  the  meat  is  done,  and  dished^ 
put  butter  over,  and  serve  hot. 

Scolloped  Tomatoes. — Peel  six  fine  tomatoes, 
(pour  scalding  water  over,  if  the  skins  do  not  come 
off  readily,)  and  press  the  seeds  and  juice  from  them, 
butter  a  scolloped  tin  plate,  put  to  the  tomatoes 
two  tablespoonsful  of  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  cut  it  small ;  put  the 
prepared  tomatoes  into  the  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  done,  turn  it  out. 
A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  added  to  the  preparation  is 
considered  an  improvement. 

Water-Cresses. — These  are  used  as  a  salad  ; 
pick  out  all  discolored  leaves,  wash  each  cluster 
separately,  and  serve  in  a  salad  bowl,  with  cold 
boiled  feggs  sliced  and  put  over;  or  cut  the  cresses 
fine,  and  serve  with  a  salad  dressing. 

Leeks. — These  are  used  principally  for  soups, 
they  may  be  boiled,  and  served  with  toast  the  same 
as  asparagus. 

Cabbage  and  Potatoes. — Chop  cold  boiled 
cabbage  and  potatoes  quite  fine  ;  put  them  together, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  very  lit- 
tle vinegar  or  hot  water,  to  moisten  without  mak- 
ing it  wet,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  over  the  fire,  stir 
it  well,  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  heated,  but  not 
burn  ;  then  take  it  into  a  dish,  and  serve  for  break- 
fast, or  with  cold  boiled  salt  meat  for  dinner. 

Horse-radish. — Lay  fresh  horse-radish  in  a  pan 

.  of  cold  water  for  an   hour  or  more,  then  pare  or 

scrape  off  the   outer  skin,  and   grate  it  on  a  coarse 

grater;  add  a  little  salt  to  it,  moisten  with  vinegar, 

and  serve  with  boiled  fish  or  roast  meat. 


BUTTER    AND    VINEGAR    SAUCE.  195 

SAUCES 

For  Meat^  Fish,  Poultry,  or  Vegetables. 

To  Make  Drawn  Butter. — Put  half  a  pint  of 
milk  in  a  perfectly  clean  stew-pan,  and  set  it  over 
a  moderate  fire  ;  put  into  a  pint  bowl  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  t)utter,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  work  these 
well  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  then  pour 
into  it,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  ;  when  it  is  smooth,  stir  it  -into  the 
boiling  milk,  let  it  simmer  for  five  mmutes  or  more, 
and  it  is  done. 

Drawn  butter  made  after  this  receipt,  will  be 
found  to  be  most  excellent ;  it  may  be  made  less 
rich,  by  using  less  butter. 

Parsley  Sauce. — Make  a  drawn  butter  as  di- 
rected, dip  a  bunch  of  parsley  into  boiling  water, 
then  cut  it  fine,  and  stir  it  into  the  drawn  butter  a 
few  minutes  before  taking  it  up. 

A>  Egg  Sauce. — Make  a  drawn  butter ;  chop  two 
hard  boiled  eggs  quite  fine,  the  white  and  yolk 
separately,  and  stir  it  into  the  sauce  before  serving. 
This  is  used  for  boiled  fish  or  vegetables. 

Sour  Sauce. — Make  half  a  pint  of  good  vinegar 
hot,  stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  little 
pepper,  and  serve  with  boiled  lobster  or  fish. 

Cold  Butter  and  Vinegar  Sauce* — Beat  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  with  a  giU 
of  vinegar,   and   a  teaspoociful  of  pepper;  ^dip  a 


19G  ANCHOVY    SAUCE. 

"bunch  of  parsley  into  scalding  water,  chop  or  cut  it 
small,  and  beat  it  with  the  butter  ;  a  teaspoonful 
of  made  mustard  may  also  be  added.  Serve  with 
boiled  meat  or  lobster. 

Butter  Sauce. — Beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and 
salt,  each  ;  beat  it  well  together,  and  serve  with 
roast,  or  baked,  or  boiled  potatoes,  and  cold  meat — 
or,  put  it  over  boiled  vegetables. 

Shalot  Sauce. — Take  half  a  pint  of  water,  in 
which  meat  has  been  boiled,  add  a  wineglass  of 
vinegar,  and  two  or  three  shalots  cut  fine,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  put  these  into  a  sauce-pan, 
over  the  fire  ;  work  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  stir  them  in- 
to the  hot  water,  and  let  them  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes.     Serve  with  boiled  meat. 

To>  Brown  Flour. — Take  some  flour  into  a  pan 
or  dish,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  or  over  some  coals  ; 
stir  it  about,  that  it  may  not  burn,  but  be  nicely 
browned.  Keep  it  in  a  dredging  box  for  browning 
gravies. 

Nasturtion,  or  Imitation  Caper  Sauce. — 
Stir  some  pickled  nasturtions  into  sour,  or  drawn 
butter  sauce. 

Anchovy  Sauce. — Soak  some  anchovies  in  a 
basin  of  cold  water,  for  two  or  three  hours  ;  then 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  cold  water,  and  set 
them  on  coals  to  simmer,  until  the  anchovies  are 
dissolved  ;  then  strain  the  water,  add  to  it  a  wine- 
glass of  red  wine,  and  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter; 


LEMON    SAUCE.  197 

let  it  simmer   for  quarter  of  an  hour,  then   serve 
with  boiled  fish,  or  meat. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Put  half  a  pint  of  milk  into  a 
stew-pan,  set  it  over  a  fire  ;  mix  a  tableispoonful  of 
wheat  flour  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  ; 
when  the  milk  boils,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  small  oys- 
ters ;  then  pour  into  the  butter  and  flour,  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ;  when 
smooth,  add  it  to  the  milk  and  oysters  ;  add  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  boil- 
ed meat,  turkey,  or  fowls. 

Mint  Sauce. — Take  nice  fresh  mint,  chop  it 
small,  mix  with  it  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  vine- 
gar to  moisten  it.     Serve  with  roast  lamb. 

Onion  Sauce. — Peel  some  nice  white  onions, 
and  boil  them  tender  ;  press  the  water  from  them  , 
chop  them  fine,  and  put  them  to  half  a  pint  of  hot 
milk  ;  add  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  boiled  veal,  or 
poultry,  or  mutton. 

Lobster  Sauce. — Put  the  coral,  and  spawn  of 
a  boiled  lobster  into  a  mortar,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  pound  it  to  a  smooth  mass,  then  rub  it 
through  a  sieve  ;  melt  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sweet  butter,  with  a  wineglass  of  wine,  or  vine- 
gar;  add  a  teaspooonful  of  made  mustard,  stir  in 
the  coral,  and  spawn,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper ; 
stir  it  until  it  is  smooth,  and  serve.  Some  of  the 
meat  of  the  lobster  may  be  chopped  fine,  and 
stirred  into  it.     Madeira  wine  should  be  used. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Make  a  drawn,  or  melted  but- 
ter sauce,  cut  a  lemon  into  very  thin  slices,  take  out 


198  CLARIFIED    BUTTER. 

the  seeds,  and  stir  the  slices  into  the  sauce  ;  give  it 
one  boil,  then  serve  over  boiled  fish,  fowl,  or  meat. 

CuRRiE  Powder. — This  powder  is  used  for  fla- 
voring various  stews  of  meat,  fish,  and  poultry  ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  the  po  wder  for  each  pound  of  meat, 
or  less  may  be  used,  if  liked.  Currie  powder  may 
be  bought  at  the  best  groceries,  or  you  may  have 
it  made  up  at  the  druggists,  as  follows  : 

Take  thirteen  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  two 
ounces  of  black  pepper,  one  of  cayenne  pepper, 
three  ounces  of  cummin  seed,  and  six  ounces  of 
pale  colored  tumeric  ;  the  whole  pounded  very 
fine ;  set  them  before  the  fire,  and  let  them  dry  per- 
fectly, turning  them  frequently ;  mix  them  well, 
and  when  cold,  put  it  into  bottles  ;  cork  them  tight; 
this  will  be  good  for  one  year,  if  kept  in  a  dry 
place. 

Cream  Sauce. — Put  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
wheat  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
the  same  of  young  onions  of  scallians,  chopped 
fine  ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg;  mix  these  well  together, 
then  add  a  glass  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  set  it  over 
the  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a  silver  spoon,  until  it  is 
ready  to  boil ;  if  it  is  too  thick,  add  more  milk ; 
this  sauce  should  be  kept  stirring  for  fifteen  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  boiled  rabbits,  meat,  or  poultry. 

Melted,  or  Clarified  Butter. — Put  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  by  a  gentle 
fire  ;  let  it  remain  until  the  scum  rises,  and  the 
milk  settles  to  the  bottom  ;  take  off'  the  scum  care- 
fully with  a  spoon  ;  then  pour  the  butter  carefully 
from  the  milk. 


CRANBERR^Y    SAUCE.  199 

Apple  Sauce. — Peel,  quarter,  and  core,  rich 
lart  apples  ;  put  to  tlieni  a  very  little  water,  cover 
them,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  ;  when  tender, 
miish  them  smooth,  and  serve  with  roasted  pork, 
goose,  or  any  other  gross  meat. 

Fried  Apples. — Wash  fine  fair  apples  without 
paring,  and  cut  them  in  slices  an  eightn  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  pork  fat ;  serve  with 
fried  pork. 

Fried  Peaches. — Take  peaches,  not  fully  ripe, 
wash  them,  and  wipe  them  ;  then  cut  them  in  slices 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  the  pan,  after 
pork;  serve  with  the  meat.  This  is  a  South  Caro- 
lina dish. 

Cranberry  Sauce,  or  Jam. — Pick  a  quart  of 
cranberries  free  from  all  imperfections,  wash  them, 
and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  teacup  of 
water,  and  the  same  of  brown  sugar ;  cover  the 
stew-pan,  and  let  them  stew  gently  for  one  hour  ; 
then  mash  them  smooth  with  a  silver  spoon  ;  dip  a 
quart  bowl  in  cold  water,  pour  in  the  stewed  cran- 
berries, and  set  it  to  become  cold  ;  then  turn  it  out 
on  a  dish,  or  glass  saucer,  and  serve  with  roast 
pork,  ham,  goose,  or  fowls. 


200       BUTTER  IN  HASTE  FROM  MILK. 


DIRECTIONS. 

For  maTcing  and  Tcecpin^  Butter  in  the  best  manner. 
Also,  Milk,  Cream,  Cheese,  etc. 

To  Freshen  Salt  Butter. — Butter  which 
has  been  made  too  salt,  may  be  freshened  and  made 
sweet  in  the  followins:  manner :  Take  two  or  three 
pounds  of  it  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray,  pour  very 
cold  water  over  it,  and  work  it  with  a  ladle,  gently 
pressing  it  until  the  water  is  colored;  then  drain  it 
off,  add  more  water,  continue  to  work  it,  changing 
the  water  until  it  is  clear;  mix  a  small  teaspoontul 
of  fine  white  suirar,  and  a  larw  one  of  fine  salt  to- 
gether  for  each  pound  of  butter ;  and  after  drainmg 
off  the  water  for  the  last  time,  strew  the  mixture 
over  ;  work  it  thoroughly  in  with  a  ladle  by  folding 
and  gently  pressing  the  butter  ;  then  make  it  in 
rolls  and  wrap  each  in  a  separate  bit  of  muslin ;  or 
pack  it  down  in  stone  jars,  lay  a  bit  of  muslin  upon 
it,  and  put  a  cover  over  to  keep  it  from  the  air  ;  keep 
it  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Ice  water,  or  cold  spring 
water,  is  requisite  for  making  good  butter. 

Delicious  Butter. — Lay  open  three  clean 
coarse  towels,  one  over  the  other  ;  put  a  pint  of  thick 
cream  in  the  upper  one,  tie  the  cream  in  them  as 
close  as  possible  ;  then  bury  it  in  the  earth  in  a 
dry  place,  eighteen  inches  deep,  for  twenty-four 
hours ;  then  put  the  cream  in  a  cool  earthen  basin, 
and  stir  it  with  a  spoon  for  five  minutes  in  summer, 
or  fifteen  in  winter; — when  you  will  have  a  lump 
of  cool,  fresh,  and  most  delicious  butter,  for  the 
breakfast  table.     Why  not  try  it? 

Butter  in  Haste,  from  Winter  Cream,  or  from 


BUTTER  MADE  SWEET  FOR  WINTER  USE.      201 

the  Milk  of  one  Cow, — Take  milk  fresh  from  the 
cow,  strain  it  into  clean  pans,  set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire  until  it  is  scalding  hot ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  then 
set  it  aside ;  when  it  is  cold  skim  off'  the  cream  ; 
the  milk  will  still  be  fit  for  any  ordinary  use  ;  when 
you  have  enough  cream,  put  it  into  a  clean  earthen 
basin;  beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon,  until  the  butter 
is  made,  which  will  not  be  long;  then  take  it  from 
the  milk  and  work  it  with  a  little  cold  water,  until 
it  is  free  from  milk,  then  drain  off  the  water,  put  a 
small  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt  to  eack  pound  of 
butter,  and  work  it  in.  A  small  teaspoonful  of  fine 
white  sugar,  worked  in  with  the  salt,  will  be  found 
an  improvement — sugar  is  a  great  preservative. 
Make  the  butter  in  a  roll;  cover  it  with  a  bit  of 
muslin,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

This  receipt  was  obtained  from  one  who  prac- 
ticed it  for  several  winters. 

To  Preserve  Butter  for  Winter  Use. — 
Take  two  parts  of  the  best  fine  salt,  one  part  finely  ^ 
ground  loaf  sugar,  and  one  of  saltpetre;  beat  them 
well  together.  To  each  pound  of  butter,  worked 
perfectly  free  from  milk,  put  one  ounce  of  this  com- 
position ;  work  it  well  into  it,  and  pack  it  down  in 
stone  pots,  or  wooden  firkins.  Butter  packed  in 
this  way,  will  be  found  to  equal  the  best  rose  butter, 
and  will  remain  sweet  for  years,  if  not  exposed  to 
the  air. 

To  MAKE  Butter  Sweet,  for  Winter  Use. — 
Buy  the  ordinary  packed  butter,  which  is  not 
strong  or  rank  ;  take  out  several  pounds,  and  work 
it  with  cold  water  until  free  from  milk  ;  put  to  each 
pound  a  small  teaspoonful  of  fine  salt,  then  pack  it 
close  into  stone  pots  or  wooden  kegs  ;  make  a  brine 
of  one  part  saltpetre,  one  part  white  sugar,  and  two 

I* 


202  TO  MAKE  BUTTER. 

of  common  salt.  To  each  ounce  of  this  pre})ara- 
tiou  put  a  gill  of  water  for  each  two  pounds  of  but- 
ter;  pour  it  over  the  butter;  cover  the  pot  or  keg, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Quite  indifferent  butter  may  be  made  sweet  and 
good  by  pouring  this  brine  over,  and  allowing  it  to 
remain  for  a  few  weeks,  or  longer,  before  using. 

Or  3^ou  may  pack  it  as  directed  in  the  preceding 
receipt,  and  arrive  at  the  same  result. 

Butter  packed  after  these  directions  has  been 
eaten  in  the  spring  of  the  year  in  preference  to  the 
best  grass  butter. 

To  Make  Butter. — In  order  to  make  butter 
well,  it  is  necessary  that  the  vessels  in  which  the 
milk  is  kept  be  sweet  and  clean,  and  the  milk-room 
or  cellar  cool  and  air}^  in  summer. 

Large  tin  pans  are  mostly  used  for  milk ;  the 
broadest  are  best,  allowing  a  greater  surface  for  the 
cream  to  rise. 

Vessels  in  which  milk  is  kept,  after  being  emp- 
tied, must  first  be  washed  in  cold  water  to  take  off 
all  the  milk,  and  any  remains  of  cream,  then  fill 
them  with  scalding  hot  water,  which  must  be  suf- 
fered to  remain  until  it  is  nearly  cold.  One  pan 
may  be  turned  over  another,  which  is  filled  with 
hot  water,  for  a  few  minutes,  then  change  their  re- 
lative positions,  pouring  the  water  from  one  to  the 
other  ;  this  will  require  less  time  and  water  than 
the  other  wav.  Lastly,  w^ash  them  well  in  the 
water,  and  turn  them  upside  down  in  the  sun.  Tin 
milk  pails  are  best,  being  most  easily  kept  sweet ; 
white  or  hard  wood  pails  are  generally  used,  and 
must  be  washed  well  in  cold  water  and  then  scald- 
ed the  same  as  tin  pans.  Occasionally,  scour  both 
pails  and  pans  with  soft  soap  and  sand ;  and  after- 
wards scald  them,  rinse  them  in  hot  water,  and  dry 


TO    MAKE    BUTTER.  203 

them  in  the  sun,  or  by  a  fire.  Or,  instead  of  scald- 
ing the  milk  tins,  and  other  vessels,  as  above  di- 
rected, have  a  large  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and 
having  first  washed  them  in  cold  water,  dip  each 
pan  into  the  scalding  water,  turning  it  around  that 
every  part  may  get  its  due.  Let  it  remain  in  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  wipe  them  dry,  and  set  them  by 
for  use ;  their  own  heat  will  assist  the  dr^'ing. 

Milk  strainers  are  tin  basins,  with  a  fine  sieve  at 
the  bottom  ;  or  with  a  ring  by  which  to  fasten  a 
linen  cloth,  over  a  bottomless  basin.  The  ring  and 
cloth  must  be  taken  off  every  time  it  is  used,  and 
first  washed  in  cold  water;  allow  it  to  remain-in  the 
water  whilst  washing  the  tins,  then  wash  it  out  ; 
pour  scalding  water  in  it,  and  lastly,  rinse  it  in  cold 
water  and  hang  it  to  dry. 

A  srhall  frame  or  ladder  is  wanted  to  lay  across 
the  pan  and  support  the  strainer  whilst  the  milk  is 
poured  through. 

For  taking  the  cream  from  the  milk,  a  small  short- 
handle  tin  skimmer  or  shell  is  used;  a  stone  jar  or 
pot  is  best  for  keeping  cream.  There  should  never 
be  more  than  three  days'  gatherings  for  a  churning  ; 
too  long  keeping  will  make  bitter  butter;  wash  the 
jar  in  cold  water,  then  scald  and  dry  as  directed  for 
the  tins. 

Wooden  ware  churns  are  mostly  used.  The  old 
fashioned  barrel  churn,  is  best  for  small  churnings; 
a  larger  sort,  in  which  the  dasher  is  suspended  and 
moved  back  and  forth  instead  of  up  and  down,  is 
less  tiresome  ;  the  churn  is  to  be  kept  sweet  and 
clean  in  the  same  manner  as  the  other  vessels,  ex- 
posing the  inside  to  the  heat  of  the  sun,  until 
thoroughly  dr}^,  after  each  time  washing. 

A  wooden  tray  and  ladle,  is  also  necessary  for 
receiving  and  working  the  butter,  after  it  is  made. 

Care  is  necessarv  that  the  churninii:  is  neither  too 


204  TO  MAKE  BUTTER. 

*  fast  nor  too  slowly  performed.  The  dashes  should 
be  continued  at  intervals  of  about  a  second  between 
ihem,  and  steadily,  until  the  butter  has  come,  when 
a  slower  and  more  gentle  motion  is  desirable. 

Scald  the  trav  and  ladle,  then  fill  it  with  cold 
water  until  the  butter  is  made. 

After  the  butter  is  fairly  gathered,  take  it  from 
the  buttermilk,  with  the  ladle,  pressing  it  against 
the  side  of  the  churn,  to  free  it  from  the  milk  ; 
having  thrown  the  water  from  the  tray,  put  the  but- 
ter in,  pour  cold  water  over,  to  cover  it,  and  set  it 
in  a  cool  plnce  for  half  an  hour,  to  harden  it ;  then 
with  the  ladle  work  all  the  milk  from  il,  changing 
the  water  until  it  is  clear;  it  is  best  to  have  ice 
water  if  possible,  in  summer.  To  each  pound  ol 
butler  put  a  smnll  tablesprxniful  of  fine  salt,  and  a 
small  teMspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar;  work  it  nice- 
ly into  the  butter  and  make  it  in  rolls,  or  pack  it  in 
wooden  or  stone  vessels,  put  a  bit  of  muslin,  and  a 
cover  over  to  keep  the  butter  from  the  air. 

Butter  should  be  made  and  kept  in  a  cool  cellar 
or  ice  house  :  this  direction  is  particularly  for  sum- 
mer, when  it  must  be  done  in  the  coolest  part  of  the 
day,  and  the  coolest  possible  place.  Cold  water 
poured  in  occasionally,  in  small  quantities,  at  the 
dasher,  will   make  butler  come  better,  in  summer. 

In  warm  weather,  milk  is  generally  ready  for 
skimming,  after  twenty-four  hours'  standing,  when 
the  cream  is  wanted  for  butter. 

Crenm  for  table  or  freezing,  twelve  hours'  stand- 
ing is  sufficient  ;  take  off  the  cream,  let  the  milk 
remain  until  the  next  morning,  then  skim  it  and  keep 
the  cream  for  butter. 

When  the  weatlier  is  cold,  let  the  milk  become 
scalding  hot  without  boiling,  before  straining  it  ; 
after  twelve  hours  it  is  fit  for  skimming,  and  the 
milk  which  remains  will  be  sweet  and  fit  for  com- 


MILK    STRAINERS BUTTERMILK.  205 

njon  purposes.  Another  way  to  hasten  cream  is  to 
dip  the  pans  in  boiling  water  before  straining  in  the 
nriilk  ;  by  turning  another  pan  scalded  in  the  same 
manner  over  the  pan  with  the  milk,  you  may  great- 
ly facilitate  the  operation.  Another  way  is  to  set 
the  pans  over  vessels  of  boiling  water;  this  will 
also  cause  the  cream  to  rise  quickly. 

If  you  churn  in  winter,  pour  boiUng  water  into 
the  churn,  cover  it  and  let  it  remain  until  ready  to 
put  in  the  cream,  at  which  time  throw  it  out.  Win- 
ter churning  should  be  done  in  a  moderately  warm 
room. 

Milk  cellars  should  be  under  ground  or  over  an 
ice  house.  If  under  ground,  a  milk  room  should 
be  paved  with  brick  or  stone  ;  and  a  stone  or  wood- 
en table  in  the  centre  ;  or  a  rack  or  shelf  suspended 
from  the  ceiling  instead.  There  should  be  stone 
or  wooden  shelves  running  around  three  sides  ;  in 
summer  the  windows  and  doors  should  be  close 
latticed  only,  that  there  may  be  a  free  current  of 
air.  In  cold  or  winter  weather  the  windows  should 
be  closely  glazed,  and  the  door  tight. 

The  shelves  and  floor  of  a  milk  room  should  be 
washed  and  wiped  dry  twice  a  week  in  summer, 
and  once  each  week  in  winter.  The  place  should 
be  cool  and  sweet,  and  free  from  any  mustiness, 
which  will  affect  the  milk. 

To  preserve  butter  for  winter  use,  see  a  previous 
receipt,  (page  201.) 

Buttermilk  and  thick  sour  milk  are  used  to  make 
pot-cheese,  or  cottage-cheese,  as  it  is  sometimes 
called. 

Buttermilk  is  also  a  cooling  summer  drink,  and 
very  palateable,  sweetened  with  a  little  sugar,  or 
s^Tup,  or  molasses.  m\  little  grated  nutmeg  may 
also  be  added.  It  is  fit  for  eating  only  the  first  day. 
Bread  crumbed  into  sweeLcned  buttermilk  is  mucb 


206  ARTIFICIAL    CHEESE. 

likejl  l)y  children,  as  well  as  certain  grown  persons 
one  might  mention.  , 

Thick  sour  milk,  taken  from  the  pan  carefullv 
with  a  skimmer,  without  breaking,  may  be  served 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg  over.  It  is  both  cooling 
and  very  palateable,  and  by  most  persons  preferred 
to  cold  custard. 

Sour  milk  and  buttermilk  are  kept  for  the  pigs. 

To  Make  Pot  Cheese. — Put  butter-milk  and 
thick  sour  milk  together,  about  one-third  butter- 
milk ;  put  it  in  a  clean  vessel  over  the  fire,  make  it 
scalding  hot,  then  take  the  curd  from  the  whey  with 
a  skimmer,  put  it  into  a  muslin  or  linen  bag,  tie  it 
up  and  hang  it  to  drain  ;  after  an  hour  or  two,  take 
it  down,  moisten  it  slightly  with  sweet  cream,  put 
a  little  salt  to  it,  work  the  salt  into  it,  and  make  it 
m  balls  the  size  of  a  teacup ;  press  it  close  with  the 
hands,  lay  a  cloth  on  a  dish  to  receive  the  cheese, 
cover  it,  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  These  are  fine 
for  the  breakfast  or  tea-table. 

Lay  one  on  a  small  plate,  and  serve  wuth  bread 
and  butter,  and  ripe  fruit,  or  preserves. 

Pot-cheese  should  be  made  fresh,  once  or  twice 
a  week. 

Cows  Fed  on  Turnips. — If  cows  are  fed  on 
turnips,  the  butter  made  from  their  milk  has  an  un- 
pleasant flavor  ;  to  counteract  which,  put  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  to  every  two  gallons  of  milk,  and  let 
it  stand  as  usual  for  cream. 

A  very  small  quantity  of  nitre,  dissolved  in  cold 
water,  and  put  to  the  milk,  is  said  to  destroy  any 
ill  taste. 

Artificial  Cheese. — Boil  one  gallon  of  new 
milk     with     two    quarts    of    cream  ;     add    six    or 


TO    PREPARE    RENNET.  207 

eight  eggs  well  beaten,  and  six  or  seven  large 
spoonsful  of  wine-vinegar;  let  it  simnner  until 
it  conies  to  a  tender  curd,  then  tie  it  in  a  cheese- 
cloth, and  hang  it  to  drain  for  several  hours,  after 
which,  open  the  cloth,  work  some  salt  to  the  cheese, 
then  lay  a  cloth  in  a  cullender  or  cheese-hoop,  put 
the  curd  in,  fold  the  cloth  over,  and  lay  a  weight 
upon  it  for  one  hour  or  longer,  then  turn  it  on  to  a 
dish  and  serve. 

Milk  Cheese. — Put  five  quarts  of  warm  milk 
Into  a  basin,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  rennet 
water  ;  when  the  curd  is  formed,  break  it  gently 
with  the  hand,  drawing  it  to  the  side  of  the  basin 
or  other  vessel ;  let  it  stand  for  two  hours,  spread  a 
cheese  cloth  over  a  sieve  or  round  basket,  put  the 
curd  in,  let  it  drain  until  all  the  whey  is  off,  then 
salt  it  to  taste  ;  then  lay  a  cloth  in  a  cheese-hoop, 
put  the  curd  in,  lay  a  cloth  over  ;  lay  a  wooden 
cover,  the  size  of  the  inside  of  the  hoop  over,  place 
a  two  pound  weight  upon  it,  and  let  it  remain  for 
twelve  hours;  then  take  it  out,  put  it  in  a  frame,  or 
tie  a  cloth  tight  around  it,  and  turn  it  from  one  side 
to  the  other  every  day,  until  dry ;  then  rub  the  out- 
side with  a  little  butter,  and  sprinkle  pepper  over 
to  keep  the  flies  from  it ;  put  it  to  ripen  between 
two  pewter  plates;  if  the  weather  is  warm,  it  will 
be  ready  in  three  weeks. 

Cheese-Cream. — Make  a  pint  of  milk  luke- 
warm, dilute  a  piece  of  rennet  the  size  of  a  pea,  in 
milk,  and  stir  it  in;  put  it  over  some  hot  coals  until 
it  curds,  then  drain  it,  arid  turn  it  into  a  dessert 
dish,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce,  or  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

To  Prepare   Rennet. — Take  the    stomach  of 


208  MILK    TOAST. 

the  calf,  empty  it,  and  strew  it  plentifully  with  salt, 
let  it  lay  for  a  day  or  two,  then  stretch  it  out  on 
two  sticks,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun  ;  a  piece  of  dried 
I'ennet  the  size  of  your  hand,  is  sufficient  for  a 
quart  of  water;  a  tablespoonful  of  the  water  will 
curd  a  quart  of  milk.    , 

Cheese  Roasted, — Grate  three  ounces  of  dry 
cheese,  and  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  put 
four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  three  of  butter; 
beat  the  whole  together  in  a  mortar,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  made  mustard,  a  little  salt,  and  some 
pepper  ;  toast  some  slices  of  bread,  cut  off*  the  out- 
side crust,  cut  it  in  shapes,  and  spread  the  paste 
thick  upon  them,  and  put  them  in  a  dutch  oven  ;  let 
them  become  hot,  and  slightly  browned  ;  serve  hot 
as  possible. 

To  Make  Welsh  Rabbit. — Cut  or  grate  some 
good  cheese,  put  a  bit  of  butter,  and  some  made 
mustard  to  it,  put  it  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire, 
and  stir  it  smooth  ;  a  little  milk  may  be  added  to  it ; 
when  it  is  hot,  and  a  smooth  paste,  spread  it  on 
slices  of  nicely  toasted  bread,  and  serve  hot. 

To  Make  Toast. — Cut  slices  from  a  loaf  of 
wheat  bread,  let  them  be  smooth,  even,  and  half  an 
inch  thick,  have  a  bright  fire,  and  toast  them  quick- 
ly; when  both  sides  are  a  fine  brown,  lay  the  slices 
on  a  hot  plate,  and  put  a  tin  cover  over  until 
served. 

Milk  Toast. — Having  toasted  the  bread  nicely, 
spread  it  with  sweet  butter,  make  some  milk  hot, 
add  a  small  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt  to  it,  then 
pour  it  over  the  toast,  and  serve.  Or  lay  toasted 
bread  in  a  deep  plate  or  dish ;  to  a  pint  of  milk  put 


BOILED    PUDDINGS.  209 

a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teacup  of  butter,  make 
it  boiling  hot,  then  pour  it  over  the  toast ;  some  per- 
sons work  a  small  teaspoonfulof  flour  with  the  but- 
ter, and  stir  it  into  the  milk  when  it  is  boiling  hot ; 
stir  it  for  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  toast. 

Toast  Without  Butter. — Toast  some  slices 
of  wheat  bread,  put  a  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire, 
when  hot,  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pour 
it  over  the  toast. 


DIRECTIONS 

For  maJcing   Puddings,   etc. 

For  Boiling  Puddings. — Have  a  tin  form  oi 
muslin  basr — the  former  should  have  a  close  fittinsr 
cover,  and  be  rubbed  over  the  inside  with  a  bit  of 
butter  before  putting  the  pudding  in  it,  that  it  may 
not  stick — the  latter  should  be  first  dipped  into 
boiUng  water,  then  well  floured  on  the  inside. 

Tin  forms  may  be  bought,  or  small  covered  pails, 
of  two  or  three  quarts  capacity,  for  large  or  small 
puddings ;  these  are  more  easily  kept  sweet  than 
are  muslin  bags.     Tie  a  batter  pudding  close. 

Bread  puddings,  or  those  made  of  corn  meal, 
should  be  loose,  as  they  swell  very  much  in  boiling. 

The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the  pudding  is 
put  in,  and  continue  to  boil  until  it  is  done.  If  a 
pudding  is  boiled  in  a  bag,  it  must  be  turned  fre- 
quently whilst  boiling,  otherwise  it  will  stick  to  thp 
pot.  14 


db 


COMMON    CUSTARD. 


There  rr:ist  be  enough  water  to  cover  the  pud« 
ding  if  it  is  boiled  in  a  bag  ;  if  boiled  in  a  tin  form 
do  not  let  the  water  quite  reach  the  top  of  it. 

To  boil  a  pudding  in  a  tin  basin,  dip  a  cloth  in 
hot  water,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  tie  it  closely 
over  the  basin. 

When  the  pudding  is  done,  take  it  from  the  wa- 
ter, give  whatever  it  is  boiling  in,  one  sudden  plunsfe 
into  cold  water,  then  turn  it  out  immediatel)'  ;  this 
will  prevent  its  sticking.  If  there  is  any  delay  in 
serving  the  pudding,  cover  it  with  a  napkin,  or  the 
cloth  in  which  it  was  boiled  ;  it  is  best  to  serve  as 
soon  as  turned  out. 

Baked  Pltddings. — Bread,  cornnneal,  or  rice  re- 
quire a  moderate  heat ;  batter  or  custard  require  a 
quick  oven  ;  the  time  required  For  baking  each  par- 
ticular one  is  given  with  the  receipt  for  making  it. 

Eggs  for  puddings  are  beaten  enough  when  a 
spoonful  can  be  taken  up  clear  from  strings. 

A  baked  pudding  must  be  served  in  whatever 
it  is  made.  It  is  well  to  improve  their  appear- 
ance as  much  as  possible.  They  may  be  served 
the  same  as  meat  pies,  substituting  small  apples  or 
oth(*r  small  fruit  for  the  parsley  or  green  leaves, 

Soufflees,  or  light  puddings,  require  a  quick  oven. 
These  should  be  made  so  as  to  be  done  at  the  mo- 
ment for  serving  ;  otherwise  they  will  fall  and  flat- 
ten. 

Common  Custard. — Beat  either  four  or  five 
fre^h  eggs  light;  then  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk; 
sweeten  to  taste  ;  flavor  with  ateaspoonful  of  peach 
water,  or  extract  of  lemon,  or  vanilla,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub  butter  over  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  a  baking  dish  or  tin  basin;  pour  in  the 
custard,   grate  a  little  nutmeg  over,  and  bake  in  a 


Miar^TE    PUDDING — -APPLE    FRITTERS.         211 

quick  oven.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  is  generally 
enough.  Try  whether  it  is  done  by  putting  a  tea- 
spoon handle  into  the  middle  of  it ;  if  it  comes  out 
clean,  it  is  enough. 

Or,  butter  small  cups ;  set  them  into  a  shallow 
pan  of  hot  water,  reaching  nearly  to  the  top  of 
the  cups  ;  nearly  fill  them  with  the  custard  mixture; 
keep  the  water  boiling  until  they  are  done.  The 
pan  may  be  set  in  an  oven,  or  over  a  fire  ;  if  over 
the  tire,  it  is  best  to  brown  them  with  a  hot  shovel. 

^:^MiNi!rTE  Pudding. — Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  a 
stew-pan  over  a  clear  fire  ;  make  a  batter  of  a  large 
teacup  of  wheat  flour  and  enough  cold  milk;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  the  milk  is  boiling 
hot,  stir  the  batter  gradually  to  it;  continue  to  stir 
it  until  it  thickens,  and  the  Hour  is  cooked.  Dip  a 
mould  or  basin  into  cold  water;  pour  the  pudding 
in  and  let  it  cool  sufficiently  to  keep  its  form,  then 
turn  it  out  and  serve  with  sugar  and  butter,  or  wine- 
sauce. 

Apple  Fritters,  without  Eo-sr-^- — Putof  butter- 
milk  or  sour  milk  and  water,  each  half  a  pint  into 
a  basin  ;  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus 
in  a  little  water;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the 
milk  and  water,  and  stir  in  wheat  flour  enough  to 
make  a  smooth  batter,  then  add  the  s^ileratus  :  pare 
and  chop  fine  five  or  six  large  tart  apples,  and  stir 
them  into  the  batter;  have  a  thick-bottomed  frying- 
pan,  put  into  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  sweet  lard, 
set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  put 
in  batter  by  the  large  spoonful  until  the  pan  is  full, 
flatten  each  a  little ;  let  them  fry  gently ;  when  one 
side  is  a  delicate  brown  turn  the  other  ;  when  both 
are  done  take  them  on  a  dish,  add  to  each  a  small 


212  APPLE    DUMPLINGS. 

bit  of  butter  and  a  tcaspoonful  of  sugar,  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  serve  hot. 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding,  without  Eggs. — Make 
a  batter  the  same  as  for  fritters,  using  double  the 
quantity  of  milk  and  water  and  flour;  peel,  quar- 
ter, and  core  five  or  six  rich  tart  apples,  and  stir 
them  into  the  batter  ;  tie  it  into  a  puddiug  bag,  and 
boil  two  hours.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar  worked 
together,  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Huckleberries,  cranberries,  or  ripe  peaches  may 
be  used  instead  of  apples. 

Apple  Fritters,  with  Eggs. — Beat  two  eggs 
light,  and  stir  them  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and  half  a 
pint  of  water,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth 
batter,  (a  pint  bowl  heaping  full  is  enough  flour)  pare 
and  "core  six  large  tart  apples,  and  chop  them  small, 
stir  them  into  the  batter,  and  finish  as  directed 
without  eggs.  '• 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding,  with  Eggs. — Make  a 
batter  with  two  well  beated  eggs,  and  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  milk,  with  a  pint  bowl  heaping  full  of  wheat 
flour;  beat  it  until  smooth  and  light;  pare,  quar- 
ter, and  core,  five  or  six  large  tender  tart  or  sour 
tipples,  and  stir  them  into  the  batter,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  tie  it  in  a  pudding-bag,  and  boil 
for  two  hours.  Turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  and  serve 
with  sugar,  butter,  and  nutmeg  sauce. 

Apple  Dumplings. — Pare,  quarter,  and  core, 
eight  fine  tender  tart  apples  ;  make  a  pie  crust,  roll 
It  to  half  an  inch  thickness,  cut  it  in  round  pieces, 
the  size  of  a  tea  plate  ;  lay  as  many  pieces  of  ap- 
ples in  the  centre  as  it  will  contain,  gather  the  edges 
up,  and  pinch  them  together  over  the  apple  ;  have 


DRIED    APPLE    DUMPLIN&S.  213 

a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  when  the  dumplings 
are  all  made,  drop  them  in  ;  cover  the  pot,^and  let 
them  boil  gently,  for  nearly  an  hour;  then  take 
each  one  carefully  with  a  skimmer,  on  lo  a  dish  ; 
serve  quickly,  with  butter,  sugar,  and  nutmeg, 
worked  together,  or  with  butter  and  syrup  ;  to  be 
eaten  cut  open,  and  the  sauce,  or  syrup,  and  butter 
over. 

A  more  healthful  paste  may  be  made  for  apple 
puddings,  or  dumplings,  thus  : — To  a  pint  of  sour 
milk,  or  buttermilk,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  put 
a  small  teaspoon ful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle hot  water  ;  put  wheat  flour  into  an  earthen  ba* 
sin,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  the  buttermilk,  etc. ;  work  in  the  flour 
until  it  is  a  soft  dough  ;  flour  your  hands,  and  di- 
-vide  it  in  pieces,  the  size  of  a  common  apple  ;  then 
flatten  it  between  your  hands,  to  about  half  an  inch 
thickness,  or  rather  less  ;  put  a  quartered  apple  in 
the  centre,  then  draw  the  edges  of  the  paste  to- 
gether over  it,  pinch  it  close  ;  strew  some  flour  over 
a  large  dish,  and  lay  each  dumpling  on,  (the  gath- 
ered side  down,)  until  they  are  finished  ;  have  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  drop  the  dumplings  in,  cover 
the  pot,  and  let  them  boil  gently  for  nearly  an  hour  ; 
serve  with  sugar,  or  syrup,  and  butter. 

This  paste  is  both  light,  and  delicate;  a  pie  paste 
is  not  so  ;  very  few  persons  can  eat  it  without  posi- 
tive injury. 

Dried  Peach  Dumplings. — Stew  dried  peaches 
without  sugar,  and  finish  as  directed  for  apple 
dumplings. 

Dried  Apple  Dumplings. — Pick  the  apples, 
and  cut  out  any  imperiections,  rinse  them  in  cold 
water,  and  put  them   in    soak  4hv   one    night ;  then 


214  SNOW    BALLS. 

Stew  them  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  soak- 
ed, with  more,  if  necessary  ;  add  a  lemon,  cut  in 
thin  shces,  if  liked  ;  when  the  apples  are  tender, 
put  them  on  dishes  to  cool  ;  then  finish  as  directed 
for  apple  dumplings,  the  last  mentioned  ])aste  to  b6 
preferred.  Any  dried  fruit  may  be  stewed,  and 
done  in  this  wa}''. 

Ripe  Peach  Dvmplings. — Pare,  not  very  ripe 
peaches,  and  cut  them  in  halves,  or  quarters,  and 
finish  as  directed  for  apples. 

Rhubarb  Dumplings. — Peel  off  the  skin  from 
the  stalks,  cut  them  in  inch  lengths,  and  finish  as 
directed  for  apple  dumplings. 

Paste  Pudding,  it^VA  Fruit. — Make  a  pie  paste, 
roll  It  out  to  less  than  half  an  inch  thickness,  cover 
the  whole  surface,  until  within  two  inches  of  the 
edge,  with  apples,  pee^led  nnd  cored,  and  chopped 
small,  or  stewed  fruit,  such  ns  crnnherries,  prunes, 
plums,  or  any  other;  then  begin  at  one  side,  and 
fold,  or  roll  it  neatly  ;  wrap  a  pudding  cloth  around 
it,  secure  the  ends  by  tyinof,  and,  unless  very  small, 
boil  gently  for  two  hours  ;  take  the  cloth  from  it, 
turn  it  on  a  dish,  and  st#ve  with  a  sauce  of  butter, 
sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg,  or  wine  sauce  ;  cut  it  in 
slices  across,  nearly  an  inch  in  thickness. 

Instead  of  pie  paste,  a  more  healthful  one  may 
be  used,  as  directed  for  apple  dum[)ling5  ;  roll  it 
rather  thinner  than  directed  for  pie  paste. 

Snow  Balls. — Pick  all  imperfections  from  half 
a  pitit  of  rice,  put  it  in  water,  and  rub  it  between 
iho  hands  ;  then  pour  that  water  off,  put  more  on, 
stir  it  j,bout  in  it,  let  the  rice  settle,  then  drain  the 
water  of}^;  put   the   rice  iu  a  two  quart  stew'-pan, 


NICE    DESSERT.  215 

with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quart  of  wate3' ; 
cover  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  where  it  will  boil 
gently  for  one  hour,  or  until  the  water  is  all  absorb- 
ed ;  dip  some  teacups  into  cold  water,  fill  them  with 
the  boiled  rice,  press  it  to  their  shape  ;  then  turn 
them  out  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  butter,  and 
sugar,  or  wine  sauce. 

Prune  Pudding. — Beat  two  eggs,  stir  them  to 
a  quart  of  milk,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
enousfh  wheat  flour  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter  ; 
rinse,  or  wash  a  handful  of  prunes,  as  may  be  re- 
quired ;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over,  then  stir  them 
into  the  batter;  tie-  it  in  a  pudding-bag,  and  boil 
for  two  hours  ;  serve  with  butter,  and  sugar,  or 
wine  sauce. 

Apple  Charlotte. — Cut  slices  of  wheat  bread 
or  rolls,  and  having  rubbed  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  basin,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  line  it  with  the 
sliced  bread,  or  rolls  ;  peel  'tart  apples,  cut  ihem 
small,  and  nearly  All  the  pan,  strewing  bits  of  but- 
ter and  sugar  between  the  apples;  grate  a  small 
nutmeg  over ;  soak  as  many  shces  of  bread,  or  roll, 
as  will  cover  it  ;  over  which  put  a  plate,  and  a 
weight,  to  keep  the  bread  close  upon  the  apples  ; 
bake  two  hours  in  a  quick  oven,  then  turn  it  out. 

Quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  to  half  a  peck  of  tart  apples. 

Peach  Charlotte. — Pare  and  cut  the  peaches, 
which  may  be  ripe,  but  not  soft,  an<l  finish  as  di- 
rected for  apples.  A  charlotte  may  be  made  of 
any  sort  of  fruit;  dried  fruit  may  be  first  stewed 
and  sweetened. 

A  Nice  Dessert — May  be  made  by    stewing 


216  BATTSn    PUDDINGS. 

fruit  of  any  sort ;  cherrips,  currants,  cranberries,  or 
apples  ;  make  it  quite  sweet,  butter  some  slices  of 
wheat  bread,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
slewed  fruit  over  and  serve  hot. 

If,  for  example,  cherries  are  used  ;  pick  the  stems 
and  imperfections  from  a  quart  of  them,  put  to 
them  water  rather  more  than  to  cover  them,  add  a 
large  teacup  of  sugar,  (for  sour  cherries,)  cover 
them,  and  let  them  stew  rather  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  then  pour  them  over  the  buttered  bread,  and 
serve  hot. 

Whole  Apple  Dumplixgs. — Take  eight  or 
ten  rather  small  sized,  tender  tart  apples,  pare 
them  neatly,  and  take  out  the  cores  with  a  pen- 
knife, roll  out  some  good  pie  paste,  or  the  one  di- 
rected for  apple-dumplings,  to  less  than  half  an 
inch  thickness;  cut  two  rounds  for  each  apple,  lay 
it  on  one  of  them,  then  lay  the  other  over,  wet  the 
edges  on  the  inside,  and  join  them  neatly,  then  tie 
each  in  a  bit  of  muslin,  and  boil  for  one  hour  ; 
serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  syrup  and  nutmeg. 

Quaking  Pudding. — Grate  stale  bread  until  you 
have  a  teacupful,  add  to  it  six  well  beaten  eggs, 
and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  rice  flour  ;  stir  them 
into  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
tie  it  in  a  well  floured  pudding  cloth,  and  boil  for 
two  hours  ;  when  done,  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with 
wine  sauce  heaped  upon  it ;  it  is  best  to  boil  it  in 
a  basin.  This  pudding  may  be  baked  in  a  well 
^  buttered  basin,  then  turned  out,  and  served  with 
wine  sauce  upon  it ;  one  hour  will  bake  it  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Cheap  Batter  Pudding. — Beat  three  fresh 
eggs  with  six  dessert  spoonsful  of  wheat  flour;  beat 


COCOANUT    PUDDIXa.  217 

untJl  very  light,  then  stir  into  it  gradually  a  quart 
of  milk  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet  butter,  and 
two  of  sugar  ;  of  salt  and  essence  of  lemon,  or  peach 
water,  each  a  teaspoonful ;  grate  half  a  nutmeg  to 
it,  beat  it  well  together,  put  it  into  a  buttered  basin 
or  mould  for  one  hour,  in  a  hot  oven  ;  when  done, 
turn  it  out,  or  serve  in  the  basin.  This  pudding 
may  be  boiled  ;  omit  the  sugar,  butter,  and  flavor- 
ing, boil  two  hours,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Rich  Batter  Pudding. — Beat  six  eggs  with 
six  large  spoonsful  of  wheat  flour,  until  very  light, 
then  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  milk,  beat,  them  well 
together,  butter  a  dish,  and  bake  for  one  hour 
in  a  hot  or  quick  oven.  Serve  with  brandy  or  wine 
sauce  ;  instead  of  brandy  or  wine,  lemon  juice  may 
be  used. 

This  pudding  may  be  tied  in  a  cloth,  and  boiled 
for  two  hours  ;  serve  with  a  sauce.  Or  it  may  be 
baked  in  small  cups. 

Citron  Pudding. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
with  two  tablespoonsfulof  wheat  flour  ;  when  light, 
add  a  pint  of  boiled  milk,  and  a  quarter  of  citron 
cut  small  ;  put  it  in  buttered  cups,  and  bake  half 
an  hour  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  done,  turn  them  out, 
and  serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

CocoANUT  Pudding. — Take  the  meat  of  a  cocoa, 
nut  from  the  shell,  and  take  off'  the  black  outside ; 
grate  the  white  meat  of  a  small  cocoanut,  and  stir  it 
into  fourwell  beaten  eggs,  add  a  quart  of  milk,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  hue  a  buttered  tin  basin  with 
pie  paste  rolled  thin,  put  the  pudding  in,  and  bake 
for  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven  ;  take  it  from  the  basin 
and  serve  with  wine  sauce.  This  pudding  may  be 
boiled,  and  served  with  sauce ;  or  add  a  tablespoon- 


218  CHRISTMAS    PLtM    PUDDING. 

ful  of  sweet  butter,  two  large  spoonsful  of  su2:ar, 
half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon,  or  peach  water  ;  bake  in  bowls  or  cups  lined 
with  pie  paste.  Two  hours  will  be  required  for 
boiling. 

=  Floating  Island. — Set  a  quart  of  rich  n.ilk  to 
boil,  when  it  does  so,  stir  into  it  two  small  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  the  beaten  j'olks  of 
six  eggs  ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose,  or  peach  water; 
whip  the  whites  to  a  high  froth  ;  when  the  custard 
is  thick,  put  it  into  a  deep  china  dish,  and  heap  the 
frothed  egg«  upon  it;  it  may  be  finished  by  putting 
spoonsful  of  jelly  or  jam  over  the  frothed  eggs,  and 
serve. 

Trifle. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with 
Naples'  biscuit,  and  half  a  dozen  maccardons  broke 
in  half,  pour  enough  brandv  or  wine  over  to  mois- 
ten them  ;  next  put  spoonsful  of  jelly  or  j;i  mover, 
pour  a  cnstard  over,  made  of  the  3'olks  of  six  eggs 
and  a  quart  of  milk,  sweetened  to  taste;  whip  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pul- 
verized white  sugar,  add  a*  small  wine-glass  of 
wdne  or  lemon  juice,  and  when  it  will  stand  in  a 
heap,  put  it  on  the  custard,  and  serve.  ^ 

Lemon  Cream,  Floating  Island. — Beat  the 
yolks  of  twelve  eggs  to  the  juice  of  four 'lemons, 
make  it  sweet  with  white  sugar,  and  set  it  over  a 
chafing  dish  of  coals  or  a  fiirnnce  ;  stir  it  till  it  be- 
come tliick,then  pour  it  into  a  dish,  whip  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  high  froth,  and  ser\e  it  on  the 
cream. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding. — Chop  half  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  stone   and  chop   one 


PLUM  PUDDING.  919 

pound  of  raisins  ;  take  a  pound  of  currants,  picked, 
washed,  and  dried  ;  soak  half  a  sixpenny  wheat 
loaf  in  a  pint  of  milk  ;  when  it  is  all  imbibed,  add 
to  it  the  chopped  suet,  raisins,  and  currants,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  two  \vell  beaten  eggs  ; 
put  to  it  one  wineglass  of  brandy  or  lemon  juice, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  alspice ;  mix  it  well  toother, 
and  boil  it  in  a  bag  or  tin  form  for  thre€f^ours. 
When  done  turn  it  out  and  serve. 

For  sauce,  beat  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
crean),  then  stir  into  it  half  a  pound  of  pulverized 
white  sugar,  continue  to  beat  it  until  it  is  light;  a 
wineglass  of  wane  or  brandy  may  be  added. 

Plum  pudding  may  be  made  and  kept  for  ,  a 
month  or  more  ;  having  made  one  as  directed,  oi 
double  its  size/  and  boil  twicers  long,  keep  It  in  the 
cloth  in  which  it  was  boiled  ;  w^hen  wanted  cut  off 
a  piece  or  slice,  put  some  butter  and  sugar,  and  if 
liked,  a  little  wine  over,  put  it  on  a  plate  and  set  it 
in  a  hot  stove  oven  for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  ;  or 
cut  a  slice,  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  let  it 
become  hot,  lay  the  pudding  in,  put  over  it  a  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  little  wine  or  water, 
cover  the  pan,  and  when  the  pudding  is  hot  through, 
turn  it  on  a  dish  and  \serve  ;  a  tablespoonful  of 
wine  or  hot  w^ater  may  be  put  in  the  pan  after  the 
pudding  ;  let  it  become  hot,  then  put  it  over  the 
pudding. 

Plum  Pudding. — Take  half  a  pound  cf  wheat 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped, 
and  the  same  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and 
dried  ;  use  milk  enough  to  stir  easily  with  a  spoon, 
add  half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  and  four 
well  beaten  eggs  and  a  large  teaspoonful  of  mace. 


220  ALMOND  PUDDING  BOILED. 

cinnamon  and  alspice ;  mix  all  well  together  and 
boil  it  for  two  hours  and  a  half  in  a  cloth  or  tin. 
Serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  wine  sauce. 
Plum  pudding,  if  cold,  may  be  warmed  in  a  pan 
with  some  of  the  sauce. 

Lemon  Pudding. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  to  a  cream  with  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar, 
powdered  fine,  then  add  to  it  eight  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  large  fresh  lemon  grated  with  the 
skin,  stir  it  well  together,  line  a  dish  with  puff  paste, 
fill  with  the  pudding  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
nearly  an  hour. 

Almond  Pudding. — Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  let  it 
cool ;  beat  three  eggs  light,  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour ;  take  the  skins  from  two  ounces  of 
shelled  almonds  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  to  a 
smooth  paste,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon 
or  peach  water  ;  melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the 
milk,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  then 
beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  basin  or  cups. 

Almond  Pudding. — Take  the  skins  from  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds  and  four  or 
five  of  bitter,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  extract  of  lemon  or  orange-flour  water 
and  a  wineglass  of  wine ;  grate  Naples  biscuit  or 
sponge  cake  until  you  have  a  pint  bowl  of  it;  add 
to  it  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  half  a  pound 
of  l)utter  beaten  to  a  cream,  and  a  quart  of  cream 
boiled  ;  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg  and  beat  all  togetliei 
with  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth;  line  a  dish  with 
thin  puff  paste,  put  the  mixture  in  and  bake  for  one 
tiour  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Almond  Pudding  Boiled. — Take  the  skins  from 


CHARLOTTE    RUSSE.  221 

half  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  beat  them  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of  rose  water  or 
lemon  juice  ;  mix  a  pint  bowl  of  grated  bread  and  a 
nutmeg  grated  with  quarterof  a  pound  of  butter  and 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs ;  beat  them  well  together, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  cream 
or  boiled  milk,  mix  them  w^ell  together,  then  put 
in  the  almonds,  beat  it  until  thoroughly  mixed, 
then  tie  it  in  a  buttered  cloth  and  boil  for  one 
hour. 

Dish  of  Sxow,  whipt  Cream. — To  the  whites 
of  three  eg2:s  beaten  to  a  froth,  add  a  pint  of  cream 
and  four  tablespoon fuls  of  sweet  wine,  with  three 
of  fine  white  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
lemon  or  vanilla ;  w^hip  it  to  a  froth  and  serve  in  a 
glass  dish  ;  serve  jelly  or  jam  with  it. 

Or  lay  lady-fingers  or  sliced  sponge  cake  in  a 
glass  dish,  put  spoonfuls  of  jelly  or  jam  over,  and 
heap  the  snow  upon  it. 

Mock  Cream. — Beat  three  eggs  light ;  then  add 
to  them,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  wheat  flour, 
beat  them  w-ell  together,  then  stir  them  into  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  boiling  milk,  add  to  it  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon  or 
peach  water,  stir  it  for  five  minutes  over  a  gentle 
tire  ;  when  perfectly  smooth  it  is  done. 

Line  a  pudding  pan.  (having  rubbed  it  over  with 
butter,)  w^th  puflT  paste,  cut  strips  of  the  paste  and 
lay  it  around  the  edge,  fill  it  with  cream,  strew 
powder  sugar  over,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  for  half 
an  hour  ;  when  nicely  browned  it  is  done.  This  is 
altogether  superior  to  custard. 

Charlotte  Russe. — There  are  many  varieties 
of  this  same  charlotte  ;  they  are  always   similarly 


222  TO  CLARIFY  ISINGLASS. 

made,  that  is,  of  sponge  cake  or  lady-fingers  and 
whipt  cream  custard  or  blaiic-mange,  or  the  follow- 
ing :  line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  an  oval  tin  basin 
with  lady-fingers  closely  fitted  together  or  slightly 
lapped.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  high 
froth  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powder  sugar  and 
half  a  pint  of  cream  until  it  is  quite  thick  and  light ; 
flavor  to  taste  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract  and  fill 
the  cake-lined  mould,  lay  sliced  sponge  cake  or 
lady-fingers  over  to  cover  it,  and  set  it  on  ice  for  an 
hour  or  more.     Turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

Or  having  lined  a  basin  or  mould,  or  small  tin 
cups  with  lady-fingers,  or  sliced  Savoy  biscuit,  or 
yellow  lady-cake,  fill  them  *with  mock  cream, 
blanc-mange,  or  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  set  them  on  ice  to  harden,  or  let  them  become 
cold.     Turn  them  out,  and  serve. 

Make  a  Charlotte  de  Russe  as  follows  : — Break 
an  ounce  of  isinglass  small,  and  put  to  it  a  teacup 
of  hot  milk  or  water  ;  set  it  on  a  stove  until  all  is 
dissolved;  then  strain  it  through  a  bit  of  muslin  to 
half  a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar.  When  very 
nearly  cold,  add  it  to  a  quart  of  cream,  already 
beaten  to  a  froth  ;  continue  to  beat  it  for  a  few 
minutes,  holding  the  pan  on  ice  ;  having  fined  your 
moulds  with  lady-fingers,  pour  your  cream  in,  cover 
it  with  lady-fingers  or  sponge  cake  sliced.  Turn  it 
out  and  serve. 

Isinglass. — There  are  three  sorts  of  isinglass : 
American,  and  English,  and  Russia,  which  is  three 
times  the  price  of  the  others  ;  only  one-third  as  much 
is  required  of  it  as  of  Cooper's  isinglass,  for  a  quart 
of  milk,  which  is  one  ounce. 

To  Clarify  Isinglass. — Break  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  small;  pour  on  to  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 


INDIAN    MEAL    DUMPLINGS.  223 

and  set  it  over  a  gentle  heat  to  dissolve ;  when  en- 
tirely dissolved,  take  off"  tlie  scum,  or  straui  it 
through  a  coarse  cloth. 

Blanc-mange. — Boil  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  quart 
of  miliv  too:elher  ;  clarifv  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
isinglass,  and  stir  it  into  the  cream  ;  make  it  sweet 
with  white  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon  and  rose, 
or  with  vanilla,  or  orange  flower  water,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  it  well. 
Have  ready  some  earthen  moulds  dipped  in  cold 
water  ;  fill  them  with  the  blanc-mange.  When  per- 
fectly cold  turn  them  out,  or  when  read}^  to  serve. 

Red  jelly  or  jam  is  served  with  blanc-mange. 

Three  ounces  of  almonds  skinned  or  blanched, 
and  pounded  to  a  smooth  paste,  stirred  into  the 
milk  with  the  isinglass,  may  be  considered  an  im- 
provement. Strain  it  through  a  bit  of  coarse  mus- 
lin into  the  moulds. 

Ribbon  Blanc-mange. — Put  into  a  mould  some 
blanc-mange  one  inch  deep ;  let  it  become  perfectly 
cold  ;  color  some  blanc-mange  with  cochineal  or 
carmine,  a  fine  rose  color,  and  put  ix  an  inch  deep 
on  the  white  ;  when  it  is  also  cold  and  firm,  put  the 
same  depth  of  white,  and  white  and  red  alternately, 
until  the  mould  is  full.  When  cold,  it  may  be 
turned  out  on  a  dish. 

Make  rose  color  with  cochineal  pounded  fine  and 
steeped  in  a  little  hot  water,  or  wash  off*  enough 
from  a  saticer  of  carmine  ;  use  more  or  less  accord- 
ing as  you  may  wish  the  color  to  be. 

Indian  Meal  Dumplings. — Put  a  pint  of  yellow 
corn  meal  into  a  large  bowl ;  pour  boiling  water 
into  it,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  make  it  a  moist  paste 
to  mould  in  your  hands  ;  add  a  teaspoonfnl  of  salt, 


224:  BOILED    SUET    PUDDING. 

Stir  it  in  ;  make  it  in  balls  the  size  of  a  teacup,  flour 
the  outside,  and  drop  them  into  a  pot  of  boiUng 
water,  and  let  them  boil  for  one  hour.  These  may 
be  boiled  with  salt  meat.  Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce 
or  syrup. 

Boiled  Indian  Meal  Pudding. — On  half  a  pint 
of  Indian,  or  corn  meal,  pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  beat  two,  three  or  four  eggs,  very  light ; 
and  when  the  batter  is  nearly  cold,  stir  them  into 
it ;  put  the  pudding  into  a  cloth  or  tin  mould  and 
boil  two  hours.  Serve  with  a  sauce,  or  with  but- 
ter and  syrup. 

Yeast  Dumplings. — Make  a  dough  of  a  pound 
aiid  a  half  of  wheat  flour,  with  a  tablespoonfnl  of 
baker's  yeast,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  warm  milk, 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  two  hours  ;  when 
light,  flour  your  hands,  knead  it  down,  and  make 
it  in  balls  the  size  of  a  small  teacup  ;  have  a  pot 
of  boiling  water ;  take  off"  any  scum  which  may 
have  risen  in  boiling,  drop  the  dumplings  in,  and 
boil  fast  for  half  an  hour;  take  them  up  with  a 
skimmer,  and  serve  with  boiled  meat,  or  with  a  sauce 
or  with  butter  and  syrup. 

Cheap  Indian  Pudding. — Stir  gradually  half  a 
pint  of  Indian  (yellow)  cornmeal  to  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk  or  water  ;  when  it  has  cooled,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a  teacup  of  chopped  suet,  or  half  as 
much  butter  ;  put  to  it  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  ginger,  one  egg,  and  a  teacup 
of  sugar  or  syrup.     Bake  two  hours. 

4 

Boiled  Suet  Pudding. — Into  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  stir  gradually  as  much   sweet  corn   meal,  as 


SMALL    CUSTARDS.  22b 

will  make  a  thick  batter;  add  a  teacup  of  beef 
suet  chopped  fine,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  tie  it 
loosely  in  a  bag,  and  boil  two  hours.  Quarter  of 
a  pound  of  raisins  may  be  added  to  the  batter. 
Serve  with  syrup. 


Boiled  Batter  Pudding. — Beat  three  eggs 
very  light  with  a  teacup  of  wheat  flour,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  then  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  milk  ; 
put  it  in  a  tin  form,  or  well  floured  pudding  cloth, 
and  boil  fast  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  a  wine  or 
other  sauce. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding. — Steep  broken  bits  of 
stale  bread  in  warm  milk  ;  when  it  is  soft,  beat  it 
as  you  would  beat  eggs,  until  it  is  a  smooth  batter ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  tie  it  in  a  pudding-bag, 
and  boil  for  an  hour,  or  two,  according  to  its  size  ; 
one  quart  of  milk,  and  bread  enough  to  make  a 
nice  batter,  may  be  boiled  two  hours  ;  serve  with 
a  sauce.  Eggs  maybe  added  to  this  pudding,  one, 
two,  three,  or  four. 

Baked  Bread  Pudding. — Break  stale  bread 
in  small  bits,  to  fill  a  pint  bowl,  put  it  into  a  quart 
of  warm  milk  ;  when  it  is  soft,  beat  it  fine  ;  add 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  a  bit 
of  butter,  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  sugar,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  is  an  improvement. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Small  Custards. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  beat 

from  four  to  six  eggs  light,  and  when  the   milk  is 

nearly  cold,  stir  them  into  it  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt,  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  ;  grate  half  a 

-       15  J* 


226   BAKED  BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

nutmeg  over,  and  the  yellow  part  of  a  lemon,  or  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Butter  some  custard  cups,  and  nearly  fill  them  ; 
set  them  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  fill  it  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  cups,  with  boiling  water ;  set  it  in  a  hot 
oven,  or  on  some  coals,  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  take 
the  cups  out,  wipe  them,  and  serve  on  a  custard 
stand  ;  or  lay  a  napkin  over  a  large  dish,  or  tray, 
and  set  the  cups  on  it.  Serve  with  ripe  fruit,  with 
sugar  ;  or  with  preserves. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding. — Cut  three  slices,  of 
half  an  inch  thickness,  from  a  sixpenny  loaf  of 
wheat  bread,  take  off  the  outside  crust,  and  cut  the 
slices  in  small  squares  ;  pour  enough  warm  milk 
over,  to  moisten  them ;  then  beat  two  eggs  light, 
and  stir  them  into  a  pint  of  milk  ;  rub  the  inside 
of  a  tin  basin  with  butter,  and  having  picked  and 
washed  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  put  them  into  the 
basin,  lay  the  soaked  bread  on  them,  pour  the  milk 
and  eggs  over  ;  dip  a  mushn  cloth  in  hot  water, 
dredge  wheat  flour  over  one  side,  and  tie  it  over 
the  basin  ;  boil  for  one  hour ;  when  done,  take  the 
cloth  from  it,  lay  a  plate  over  the  basin,  then  turn 
the  pudding  upon  it.  Serve  with  wine,  or  other 
sauce. 

Baked  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — From 
a  baker's  sixpenny  loaf,  cut  three  slices,  of  more 
than  half  an  inch  thickness,  spread  butter,  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  over  each  slice  ;  butter  a  two  quart 
basin,  cut  each  slice  in  four,  and  strew  them  with 
well  washed  and  picked  currants,  or  raisins,  and  put 
them  in  the  basin  ;  beat  two,  or  four  eggs  light,  stir 
them  into  a  quart  of  milk  ;  add  half  a  grated  nutmeg, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  if  like^  ;  make 


SMALL    PLDDINGS.  227 

it  sweet  with  three  large  spoonsful  of  sugar ;  pour  in 
the  bread  and  raisins  ;  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
This  pudding  requires  nearly  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  or  currants,  and 
two  or  more  eggs,  to  a  quart  of  milk. 

Egg  Pudding. — Beat  nine  eggs,  with  nine  table- 
spoonsful  of  wheat  flour,  until  it  is  very  light ;  then 
add,  gradually,  three  pints  of  boiled  milk,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  sugar,  butter,  and  nutmeg,  or  wine 
sauce. 

Rice  Flour  Pudding. — Beat  four  eggs  light, 
with  a  teacup  of  rice  flour  ;  add  a  quart  of  milk, 
and  sugar,  and  spice,  to  taste,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt ;  bake  in  ^  buttered  basin,  in  a  quick  oven, 
for  one  hour  ;  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  will  make  this  pudding  very 
nice  ;  or  it  may  be  baked  without  either,  and  served 
with  a  sauce. 

Rice  Pudding,  without  Eggs. — Wash  a  small 
teacup  of  rice,  in  two  or  three  changes  of  water  ; 
make  a  quart  of  milk  sweet,  with  a  teacup  of 
sugar  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nut- 
meg, grated ;  put  the  rice  to  the  milk,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  for  nearly  two  hours. 

Rice  Pudding,  with  Eggs, — Beat  two  or  more 
eggs  light,  and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk,  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  wineglass  of  rice,  well 
washed  ;  put  to  it,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  half 
a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.— • 
Bake  one  hour,  in  a  quick  oven. 

Small     Puddings. — Beat  six  eggs,  with  six  ta- 


223  RICH    LEMON    PUDDING.  ^ 

blespoonsful  of  wheat  flour,  and  stir  it  into  three 
pints  of  milk  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  batter 
six  custard  cups,  and  one  pint  bowl,  and  nearly 
fill  them  with  the  batter  ;  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven ;  when  done,  turn  the  large  one  on  the 
middle  of  a  dish  ;  turn  the  small  ones  around  it, 
and  serve  with  wine  sauce  over  them. 

Marrow  Pudding. — Grate  stale  bread  to  fill  a 
pint  bowl,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  ;  when 
cold,  slice  into  it  a  pound  of  beef  marrow,  very 
thin  ;  add  four  well  beaten  eggs,  and  a  wineglass 
of  brandy  ;  mix  well  together;  raisins,  and  cur- 
rants, may  be  added  :  boil  two  hours,  and  serve 
with  brandy  sauce. 

CocoANUT  Pudding. — Grate  half  a  pound  of  the 
white  meat  of  a  cocoanut ;  work  a  pound  of  fine 
white  sugar  into  six  ounces  of  butter,  beat  six  eggs 
light,  then  add  them  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  sprin- 
kle the  cocoanut  gradually  in,  stir  it  well,  add  a 
wine-glass  of  brandy,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
extract,  with  half  of  a  grated  nutmeg;  line  a  deep 
dish  with  a  rich  pie  paste,  put  the  pudding  in,  set 
it  into  a  quick  oven,  roll  some  puflT  paste  thin,  cut  it 
in  leaves ;  when  the  pudding  has  been  in  the  oven 
half  an  hour,  take  it  out,  make  a  wreath  of  the 
leaves  around  the  edge,  and  return  it  to  the  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes,  then  serve. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — Make  the  same  as 
cocoanut;  grate  the  potato  after  paring  off  the 
skin. 

Rich  Lemon  Pudding. — Grate  lemons  outside, 
and  pulp  and  finish  the  same  as  cocoanut  pud- 
ding. 


CHEREY    PUDDING.  229 

Sponge  Cake  Pudding.  —  Take  sponge  cake 
which  has  become  quite  dry,  grate  it  line,  add 
enough  hot  milk  to  make  it  a  batter  ;  put  to  it  a  bit 
of  butter  and  some  currants  washed  and  dried  ;  line 
deep  dishes  with  pie  paste,  put  the  mixture  in,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  one  hour.  Beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pulverized 
white  sugar,  and  a  wineglass  of  wine,  until  it  is 
light  and  white,  and  will  stand  in  a  form,  heap  it  on 
the  top  of  each  pudding  or  pie  as  soon  as  taken  from 
the  oven,  and  serve. 

Omlet  for  Dessert. — Beat  six  eggs  light,  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and -four  or  five  maccaroons 
pounded  fine,  beat  them  well  together,  fry  as 
usual ;  strew  plentifully  with  sugar,  and  serve. 

Cream  Custard. — Beat  six  eggs  light,  stir 
them  into  a  quart  of  cream,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar 
to  taste,  add  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  or  vanilla  extract,  or  if  preferred,  peach 
water.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven,  in  a  but- 
tered basin,  with  or  without  a  bottom  crust. 

Dried  Currant  Pudding. — One  pound  of  cur- 
rants, cleaned  and  dried,  one  pound  of  suet  chop- 
ped fine,  half  a  pound  of  wheat  flour  or  bread 
crumbs,  half  a  nutaieg  grated,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  make  it  moist 
with  milk,  work  it  well  together,  tie  it  in  a  pudding 
bag,  and  boil  for  two  hours ;  serve  with  wine  or 
brandy  sauce. 

Apples  in  Batter. — Pare  and  core  several 
small  sized  apples,  set  them  in  a  deep  dish,  make 
a  rich  batter,  and  pour  it  over  them  ;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  one  hour;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Cherry  Pudding. — Make  a  batter  the  same  as 


230  CUSTARD    FRITTERS. 

for  apple  pudding,  with  or  without  eggs,  (see  di- 
rections,) take  the  stems  from  a  quart  of  sour  cher- 
ries, stir  them  into  the  batter,  tie  it  in  a  pudding 
bag,  and  boil  two  hours  ;  serve  with  butter  and 
sugar  sauce. 

Ripe  Currant  Pudding. — Make  the  same  as 
cherry  pudding. 

Huckleberry,    Blackberry  Pudding. — Pick 

the  huckleberries  or  bkick berries  free  from  crushed 
terries  or  leaves,  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  and 
iinish  as  directed  for  cherry  pudding. 

White  Pudding. — Beat  two  efrs^s  li2:ht,  and 
stir  them  to  a  pint  of  cream,  add  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt ;  butter  a  tin  basin  or  pudding  pan,  cut 
three  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  from  a  baker's 
loaf;  rinse  in  cold  water,  pick  and  stone  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  raisins,  la}^  them  in  the  pan,  cut  the 
bread  small,  and  put  it  on  them  ;  pour  xhe  cream 
over,  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven  ;  turn  it  out,  ^nd  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Fritters. — Strip  off  the  outer  skin 
from  rhubarb  stalks,  cut  them  fine,  and  finish  as 
directed  for  apple  fritters. 

Custard  Fritters. — Whip  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  add  half  a 
pint  of  cream  or  rich  boiled  milk  ;  flavor  with  a 
glass  of  brandy,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract 
or  peach  water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  dish  ;  when  cold,  cut  it  in  slices,  cut  each 
in  small  squares  or  diamonds  ;  make  a  batter  of 
two  eggs   beaten  very  light,  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and 


CURRANT  JELLY  PUDDING.         231 

flour,  to  make  a  thin  baiter;  dredge  the  pieces  of 
custard  with  flour;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
lard  or  beef  fat  into  a  dripping  pan,  over  the  fire, 
put  to  it  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  it  is  boil- 
ing hot,  take  up  one  of  the  pieces  w^ith  a  spoonful 
of  the  batter,  put  it  into  the  pan,  then  take  another 
in  the  same  way,  and  fill  the  pan,  not  too  closely  ; 
let  them  fry  gently  ;  when  one  side  is  done  turn  the 
other ;  serve  with  white  sugar  grated  over. 

Jelly  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs, 
a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  pint  bowl  of  wheat  flour  or 
more,  beat  it  light ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  or 
beef  fat  in  a  frying  or  omlet  pan,  add  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  make  it  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  batter  by  the 
large  spoonful,  not  too  close  ;  when  one  side  is  a 
delicate  brown,  turn  the  other;  when  done,  take 
them  on  to  a  dish  with  a  doyle  over  it,  put  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  firm  jelly  or  jam  on  each,  and  serve. 

Jelly  in  Fritters. — Cut  some  firm  jelly  in 
slices ;  cut  each  slice  in  small  squares  or  diamods, 
dip  each -into  wheat  flour  or  pulverized  sugar,  then 
into  a  batter  made  as  directed  for  jelly  fritters,  fry 
as  therein  directed  ;  strew  fine  sugar  over,  and 
serve  hot  for  dessert. 

Currant  Jelly  Pudding. — Make  a  rich  pie 
paste,  roll  it  out  to  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness, 
spread  currant  jelly  as  thickly  over  the  whole  sur- 
face within  an  inch  of  the  edge;  then  roll  or  fold  it 
neatly  ;  fold  a  pudding  cloth  about  it,  secure  the 
ends  and  side  and  boil  for  two  hours,  unless  very 
small ;  serve  with  a  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar ;  cut 
it  in  slices  across. 

Any  sort  of  jelly,  preserve  or  stewed  fruit  may  be 
made  in  this  way 


232  JELLY  PANCAKES. 

CuRRAXT  Jelly  Dumplixgs. — Make  a  rich  pie 
paste,  or  one  more  delicate  and  healthful  as  directed 
for  apple  dumplings  ;  if  pie  paste  is  used,  roll  it  to 
half  an  inch  thickness  ;  roll  the  other  paste  thinner; 
cut  it  in  rounds  the  size  of  a  tea  saucer,  put  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  jelly  in  the  centre  of  each, 
gather  the  outer  edges  and  pinch  them  together,  dip 
your  hand  in  flour  and  smooth  over  the  outside  ;  lay- 
each  one,  the  gathered  side  down,  on  a  floured 
dish  ;  when  all  are  done,  drop  them  in  fast  boiling 
water,  which  must  be  skimmed  before  putting  them 
in  ;  cover  the  pot  and  let  them  boil  three-quarters  of 
an  hour;  take  them  up  carefully  with  a  skimmer 
and  serve  quickly  with  a  cover  over,  and  butter  and 
sugar  sauce. 

Cranberry  jam,  or  any  other,  may  be  made  in  this 
manner,  and  it  is  delicious. 

Egg  Pancakes. — Beat  six  eggs  light  with  a  pint 
bowl  of  wheat  flour,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
stir  graduall}'  into  it  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth, 
thin  batter ;  put  an  omlet  pan  over  the  fire  and  let 
it  become  hot,  rub  a  bit  of  sponge,  dipped  in  butter, 
over  the  inside  of  the  pan,  and  put  in  enough  of  the 
batter  to  run  over  it,  as  thin  as  a  dollar  piece  ; 
shake  the  pan  when  j'ou  think  one  side  is  done 
enough,  and  if  you  can,  toss  it  up  so  as  to  turn  it, 
if  you  cannot,  use  a  pancake  turner  ;  when  both 
sides  are  a  delicate  brown,  take  it  on  a  dish,  put  a 
little  butter  over,  grate  white  sugar  and  a  little  nut- 
meg or  cinnamon  ov^er  ;  frj"  another,  lay  on  the  first 
one,  sprinkle  it  likewise,  and  so  continue  until  you 
have  enough  ;  send  to  the  table  hot  foi^essert  or 
supper ;  cut  it  in  quarters  and  serve. 

Jelly  Paxcakes. — Make  and  fry  the  pancakes, 
as  above  directed  ;  when  one  is  done  and  taken 


RATAFIA  PUDDING.  233 

on  to  a  plate,  spread  jelly  or  jam  thinly  over  it,  then 
roll  it  up  like  a  scroll,  lay  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish,  lay 
the  pancake  on,  make  until  you  have  enough  and 
serve. 

Bread  Fritters. — To  a  quart  bowl  of  stale 
bread  broken  small,  put  a  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
cover  it  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  when  it  is  quite 
soft  beat  it  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  smooth,  add  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy,  a  large  spoonful  of  sweet  butter 
and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  beat  it  light,  make 
an  omlet  pan  hot,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  large  hickory  nut,  set  the  pan  over  a  gentle  fire, 
put  in  the  batter  by  the  spoonful,  or  enough  to  run 
over  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  let  it  fry  very  gently; 
when  one  side  is  a  fine  brown  turn  the  other,  put 
butter  and  sugar  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  over, 
or  spread  wine  sauce  over,  put  one  above  the 
other,  cut  them  through  in  quarters,  and  serve  hot. 

For  a  Pudding. — Make  as  directed  for  bread 
fritters,  tie  it  in  a  bag  and  boil  two  hours  ;  serve 
with  wine  sauce. 

Ratafia  Pudding. — l5oii  a  quart  of  cream, 
break  half  a  pound  of  dry  sponge  cake,  or  Naples' 
biscuit,  in  pieces,  and  put  it  into  the  cream  ;  add  a 
teacup  of  butter,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  half  a  nut- 
meg grated,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  white 
sugar  ;  take  the  skins  from  two  ounces  of  shelled 
almonds,  pound  them  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  a  lit- 
tle lemon  juice  or  brandy  to  keep  them  from  oiling; 
when  the  cream,  etcetera,  is  almost  cold,  add  to  it 
the  5^olks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  almond  paste,  beat 
them  well  together,  grate  sugar  over  the  top,  and 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 


234  EGG    DUMPLINGS. 

Transpj\rent  Pudding. — Beat  eight  eggs  light; 
put  to  them  half  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  stir  in  half  a  pound  of  finely  powdered 
sugar,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  add  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  extract,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  until 
it  is  thick,  then  set  it  to  cool;  rub  a  pudding  pan 
over  with  butter,  put  a  strip  of  puff  paste  around 
the  edge;  put  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven  ;  serve  it  hot. 

Small  Curd  Puddings. — Take  four  quarts  of 
milk,  make  it  wanii,  and  put  to  it  a  tablespoonful 
of  rennet  water;  when  the  curd  is  formed,  strain 
the  whey  from  it,  and  put  it  into  a  mortar  or  earthen 
basin,  beat  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  with  it,  un- 
til it  is  well  mixed,  then  beat  the  yolks  of  six,  and 
the  whites  of  three  eofas  Wcrhi  and  strain  them  to 
the  curd,  grate  two  small  Naples'  biscuit  or  a  pen- 
ny roll,  and  stir  them  altogether  ;  butter  small  pans 
^or  cups,  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  done,  turn 
them  out  on  a  dish,  and  having  blanched  some  al- 
monds, cut  them  in  slips,  cut  citron  in  slips,  and 
stick  them  over  the  puddings,  put  liquid  wine  sauce 
over,  and  serve. 

Egg  Dumplings. — Make  a  batter  of  a  pint  of 
milk,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  for 
pound-cake  ;  have  a  clean  sauce-pan  of  boiling 
water,  let  the  water  boil  fast,  drop  in  the  batter  by 
the  tablespoonful ;  four  or  five  minutes  will  boil 
them,  take  them  with  a  skimmer  on  to  a  dish,  put 
a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  over,  and  serve  with 
boiled  or  cold  meat  ;  for  a  Uttle  desseit,  put 
butter  and  grated  nutmeg,  with  s\Tup  or  sugar 
over. 


BOILED    WHEAT    AND    INDIAN    PUDDING.       235 

Gotham  Pudding. — Beat  four  eggs  light,  add 
to  them  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt, 
and  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg, 
stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter, 
add  half  a  pound  of  currants  clean  washed  and 
dried  ;  or  a  quarter  of  citron  cut  in  slips,  beat  it 
until  very  light,  then  tie  it  in  a  pudding  cloth,  and 
boil  one  hour  and  a  half;  turn  it  on  to  a  dish,  put 
wine  sauce  over,  and  serve.  This  pudding  may 
be  boiled  in  a  tin  basin,  or  well  buttered  mould. 

Corn  Meal  Fritters,  Without  Eggs. — Take  a 
pint  bowl  of  yellow  corn  meal,  put  to  it  a  tablespoon- 
iul  of  sweet  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stir 
gradually  into  it  enough  boiling  milk  to  make  a  thick 
batter ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  lard  with  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  into  a  frying  pan,  let  it  become 
boiling  hot,  put  in  the  batter  by  the  tablespoonful, 
flatten  it  out  to  an  even  thickness,  and  let  it  fry 
gently  until  one  side  is  a  rich  brown,  then  turr  the 
other ;  when  both  are  done,  take  them  on  a  dish, 
and  serve  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  syrup,  or  sugar 
over. 

Corn  Meal  Fritters,  With  Eggs. — Beat 
three  eggs  light,  and  stir  them  to  a  pint  of  milk,  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  yellow  corn  meal 
to  make  alhin  batter ;  make  some  lard  boiling  hot 
in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  batter  by  the  spoonful, 
and  fry  each  side  a  delicate  brown  ;  serve  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  syrup. 

Boiled  Wheat  and  Indian  Pudding. — Put 
a  quart  of  warm  water  or  milk  into  a  vessel,  put  to 
it  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  stir  into  it 
one  pound  of  yellow  corn  meal,  and  a  teacup  of 


236  SOUPON,    OR    CORN    MEAL    PUDDING. 

wheat  flour,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  baker's  yeast, 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  three  or  four  hours,  then 
add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  stir  them  well  into  it; 
tie  it  in  a  pudding  bag,  and  boil  two  hours  with  a 
sauce,  or  with  butter  and  S3Tup. 

To  Make  Soupon,  or  Corn  Meal  Pudding. — 
Put  two  quarts  of  water  into  a  clean  dinner  pot,  or 
stew-pan,  cover  it,  and  let  it  become  boiling  hot 
over  the  fire  ;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  take 
off  the  light  scum  from  the  top,  have  sweet  fresh 
yellow  or  white  corn  meal ;  take  a  handful  of  the 
meal  with  the  left  hand,  and  a  puddino:  stick  in  the 
right,  then  with  the  stick,  stir  the  water  around, 
and  by  degrees  let  fall  the  meal ;  when  one  hand- 
ful is  exhausted,  refill  it ;  continue  to  stir  and  add 
meal  until  it  is  as  thick  as  yo\i  can  stir  easily,  oi 
until  the  stick  wiM-stand  in  it,  sti]  it  awhile  longer; 
let  the  fire  be  gentle;  when  it  is  done  enough,  it 
will  bubble  or  puff  up;  turn  it  into  a  deep  basin  ; 
this  is  eaten  cold  or  hot,  with  milk  or  with  butter, 
and  syrup  or  sugar;  or  with  meat  and  gravy,  the 
same  as  potatoes  or  ric-e. 

This  is  the  genuine  way  of  making  soupon,  some- 
times called  hasty  pudding,  which  however,  is  a 
misnomer,  few  of  the  old  Dutch,  around  Schenec- 
tady or  thereabout,  would  not  be  disturbed  at  hear- 
ing: it  called  bv  other  than  its  ancient  name, 
suppon. 

An  Englishman  travelling  through  that  vicinity  a 
long  time  ago,  chanced  to  stop  at  the  bouse  of  an 
old  resident,  and  desiring  refreshment,  forthwith 
was  set  before  him  a  generous  dish  of  soupon,  with 
milk  to  correspond,  and  bowl  and  spoon  Tor  opera- 
tion, which,  being  quite  hungry,  he  soon  commen- 
ced; the  novelt}^  recommending  itself  to  his  palate, 
he   inquired  its  name,  whereat  the  good  housewife 


GREEN    CORN    PUDDING.  237 

answered  him  sup-pon;  the  good  natured  traveller 
continued  To  do  so  for  some  time,  when  he  again 
asked  the  name,  sup-on  being  the  answer,  he  re- 
newed the  attack,  and  continued  until  nature  re- 
volted at  a  further  burden  ;  now  rising  with  some 
degree  of  passion,  or  to  sa}^  the  least,  exhausted  pa- 
tience, he  threw  back  his  chair,  seized  his  hat,  and 
turning  to  the  hostess  with — ''I  have  done  all  I  can, 
now  if  j^ou  will  not  give  me  the  name,  pray  keep 
it,"  he  dashed  out  of  the  house,  the  old  lady  scream- 
ing after  him  in  no  very  gentle  tones,  '*I  tell  you, 
sup-on !" 

Fried  Soupon. — Make  a  soupon  as  directed, 
put  it  in  a  basin  three  inches  deep  ;  when  it  is  en- 
tirely cold,  cut  it  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and 
fry  in  a  pan  with  hot  lard  or  butter  ;  it  is  served 
for  breakfast,  with  meat  and  syrup. 

Dried  Currant  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
wheat  flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet  chop- 
ped fine,  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  enough  milk  to 
make  a  rather  thin  batter,  and  a  large  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  stoned 
and  chopped,  and  the  same  weight  of  currants, 
washed  and  dried  ;  fry  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings, 
as  directed  for  fritters ;  when  done,  put  a  little  but- 
ter and  grated  nutmeg  over,  and  a  large  spoonful 
of  sugar,  and  serve  hot ;  they  may  be  served  with 
a  wine  sauce. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. — Grate  the  corn  from 
three  green  ears,  beat  four,  five  or  six  eggs  light, 
and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk  ;  stir  in  the  gratea 
corn;  with  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  and  if  liked,  a  small  teaspooiiikl  of 


238  GRATED    COCOANUT. 

lemon  extract  or  peach  water,  make  it  sweet,  and 
bake  for  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  The  sugar  and 
spice  may  be  omitted  in  making,  and  wine  sauce 
served  with  the  pudding. 

Omelet  Souffle E. — Beat  six  eggs,  the  whites 
and  yolks  separately  ;  put  to  the  yolks  four  dessert 
spoonsful  of  white  sugar  powdered,  and  the  yel- 
low rind  of  a  lemon  chopped  very  fine  ;  mix  them 
thoroughly  ;  whip  the  whites  to  a  high  froth,  and 
add  them  to  the  yolks  ;  put  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  into  the  pan,  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  it  is  completely  melted,  pour  in  the  mixture,  stii 
it,  that  the  butter  may  be  completely  incorporated 
with  the  eggs  ;  when  it  is  so,  put  it  in  a  buttered 
dish,  and  set  it  over  hot  embers  or  ashes ;  strew 
powder  sugar  over  the  top,  and  color  it  with  a  hot 
shovel  or  salamander  ;  this  may  be  done  in  the 
oven. 

This  may  be  served  as  soon  as  possible,  as  it 
soon  falls,  and  so  the  appearance  is  spoiled. 

0]^ELET  SouFFLEE,  i?i  a  Mould. — Break  six 
fresh  eggs,  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks,  put 
with  the  latter,  three  spoonsful  of  white  sugar  pow- 
,  dcred  fine,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  rice  flour,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  orange  flower  water;  stir  these  well 
together;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  high 
froth,  and  stir  them  to  the  yolks  ;  pour  the  mixture 
into  a  buttered  mould,  not  much  more  than  to  half 
fill  it,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  liour; 
when  done,  turn  it  on  to  a  dish,  and  serve  quickly. 
This   omelet    must  be   clear,  and  shake  like  a 

jelly. 

Grated  Cocoaxut,  a  Dish  of  Snow. — Take  a 
large  cocoanut,  break  it  in  pieces,  pare  off  the  dark 


OMLETTE    WITH    SWEETMEATS*  230 

outside,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  ;  grate  the 
white  meat  on  a  coarse  grater,  and  with  a  broad 
fork,  heap  it  on  a  flat  glass  dish;  serve  with  jeUies, 
jam,  or  tart  preserves. 

Cranberry  or  currant  jelly  in  a  form,  served  with 
this,  has  a  pretty  appearance,  and  is  a  fine  relish. 

To  Make  a  Hedge  Hog. — Take  the  brown 
skins  from  two  pounds  of  shelled  almonds,  beat 
them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  moistening  them  occa- 
sionally with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  orange  flower 
water ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  seven  eggs 
very  hght  and  stir  them  into  a  pint  of  cream  with 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powder  sugar,  stir  this  grad- 
ually into  the  almond  paste,  put  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter  into  a  saucepan  an^^et  it  over  the 
fire  ;  when  it  is  melted  put  ia^^the  mi'Mure  and  stir 
It  around,  mixing  it  thoroughly  until  it  is  sufficiently 
firm,  and  moulded  into  a  hedge  hog  ;  stick  it  full 
of  blanched  almonds  cut  fengthwise  in  slips  and 
set  it  in  a  dish,  stir  the  yolks  of  Jbrrt  eggs  into  a 
pint  of  boiling  cream,  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  it 
around  the  hedge  hog  in  the  dish,  let  it%ecome 
cold,  then  serve  it  as  an  ornamental  disUlfor  dessert 
or  supper. 


Frothed  Eggs. — Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  waterj 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,' 
with  sugar  to  taste  ;  fry  this  as  an  omlet,  put  it  on 
a  dish  ;  whip  the  four  remaining  whites  to  a  high 
froth  with  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  flavor  with 
lemon  or  va^:iila,  heap  it  on  the  omlet  and  set  it 
before  the  fire  or  in  an  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
brown.     Serve  for  dessert  or%ijppei|^ 


Omelet  with  Sweetmeats. — Beat  nine 


jat  nine  ^B*s, 


240  BRANDY  OR  WINE  SAUCE.       ^^^ 

the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  put  five  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  fine  white  sugar  to  the  5^olks ;  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract  or  peach  water,  whip  the 
whites  to  a  high  froth  and  stir  them  with  the  yolks  ; 
put  a  teacup  of  butter  into  the  pan,  let  it  become 
hot,  put  in  the  omlet,  draw  it  from  the  edges  of  the 
pan  to  the  middle,  and  stir  it  so  that  it  may  be 
evenly  done,  shake  it  occasionally  so  as  to  free  it 
from  the  pan  ;  when  done,  spread  jelly  or  jam  over, 
roll  it  in  the  form  of  a  muff,  strew  powder  sugar 
over,  make  it  with  a  hot  skewer,  and  serve  for 
dessert. 

Omelet  Glacee. — Whip  some  fresh  eggs  to  a 
froth  with  a  little  salt,  finely  shred  lemon  peel  and 
five  or  six  pounded  macaroons  ;  beat  them  well 
together,  the||^H^^usual,  sprinkle  white  sugar, 
brown  with  J^^fflHKder  and  serve. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Wine  Sauce. — Beat  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweS 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  to  it  quarter  of 
pound  of  fine  white  sugar  and  a  wineglass  of  wine, 
with  half  a  nutmeg  grated  ;  continue  to  beat  it  until 
it  is  hght  and  white,  then  mould  it  in  a  neat 
and  serve. 

Brandy  Sauce.— Make   as    directed  for 
sauce,  substituting  Wmidy  for  wine. 

4UID   Brandy  or  Wine-sauce. — To  quarter 


APPLE  SAUCE.  241 

of  a  pound  of  butter  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  and  a  gill  of  brandy  ;  grate  half  a  nutmeg 
into  it,  make  it  hot  and  ^er^u.  Or  it  may  be 
beaten  well  together  and  served  cold. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Make  as  directed  for  wine- 
sauce,  using  lemon  in  place  of  wine. 

Lemon  and  Syrup   Sauce-. — To  half  a  pint  of 
syrup  put  the  juice  of  two  fresh  lemons,  simmejEl^ 
them  together  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add   halfvaJ^ 
nutmeg,  grated,  and  a  small  teacup  of  butter  ;  stir 
it  smooth.     Serve   with    cornmeal    or    boiled    rice 
puddings,  or  with  batter  or  apple  puddings. 

Sweet  Sauce. — Work  a  teacup  of  sugar  into  a 
teacup  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  half 
a  nutmeg,  grated  ;  when  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  stir 
gradually  into  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  set  it 
over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stir  it  all  the  time, 
then  turn  it  into  a  tureen  and  serve — with  boiled 
batter  or  apple  puddings.  A  glass  of  wine  may  be 
added  to  this,  or  a  lemon  sliced  thin  and  cut  into 
dice  ;  put  it  in  before  putting  it  on  the  fire. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Wash  a  pint  of  ctanber- 
iies,  and  pick  out  all  imperfections,  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  put  a  small  teacup  of  water  to  them,  put 
a  large  teacup  of  sugar  over,  cover  them,  and  let 
them  stew  gently  for  nearly  an  hour,  then  add  a 
teacup  of  butter  to  them,  stirit-^ii,  and  serve  poured 
over  boiled  rice,  or  in  a  sauce  f  ish.^^ 

Apple  Sauce.-— Pare,  quarter,J^an*^ore  quarter 
of  a  peck  of  rich  tart  apples,  put  th^  in  a  stev^- 
pan,  with  a  teacup  of  water;  addBsome  finely 
chopped  lemon  peel,  and  a  large  cup  oT  sugar,  grate 

16  1^  i 


242  CINNAMON    SAUCE. 

haif  a  nutmeg  over,  and  cover  the  stew-pan  ;  let 
them  stew  gentl}^  for  half  an  hour,  then  mash  them 
fine;  add  a  teacug^of  gutter,  and  serve  with  boiled 
rice,  or  boiled  batter  pudding. 

Rich  Lemon  Sauce,  for  Puddings, — Boil  a 
fresh  skin  lemon  in  plenty  of  water,  until  a  straw 
will  penetrate  it,  then  cut  it  in  slices,  and  each 
slice  in  quarters;  put  to  them  and  the  juice,  a  tea- 
jyjp  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  butter,  with  a  large 
\J[^spoonful  of  wheat  flour  worked  into  it ;  put  all 
together  into  a  stew-pan,  and  stir  in  gradually  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water;  keep  it  over  the  fire  for 
ten  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  then  serve  with 
half  a  nutmeg  grated  over. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce. — Scrape  maple  sugar, 
or  grate  it  until  you  have  a  teacupful,  put  to  it  a 
teacupful  of  hot  water,  stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved, 
let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Cinnamon  Sauce. — Make  a  sauce  as  directed 
for  sweet  sauce  ;  when  nearly  done,  stir  in  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  ground  cinnamon. 
.  Or  ^3v  together  a  teacup  of  butter  and  a  teacup 
of  sugar,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  ground  casia  or 
cinnamon;  beat  it  until  light  and  white,  and  serve 
with  boiled  rice' or  batter  pudding. 

Sauce  for  PlumEudding. — Take  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  add  a  gi|LOT  crean],  and  three  tablespoon- 
fiils  of  white  sugar,  set  it  over  the  fire,  stir  it  until 
it  is  thick,  then  add  a  glass  of  brandy  to  it,  stirring 
it  all  the  time 


BAKING    AND    MAKING    PILS,  &C.  243 


DIRECTIONS 

For   Baking  and  Making  Pies,    Tarts,  Sfc,  and  a 
Few  hints  for  the  Economical. 

Be  careful  that  the  oven,  whether  of  brick,  or  a 
range  or  slove,  be  perfectly  clean,  and  free  from 
any  sugar  or  fat  from  anything  which  may  have 
run  over  whilst  baking. 

The  delicacy  of  pastry  depends  as  much  upon 
the  baking  as  the  making,  therefore  strict  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  following  directions  : 

PufF  paste  requires  a  quick  even  heat ;  a  hot 
oven  would  curl  the  paste  and  scorch  it. 

Tart  paste  or  short  paste  requires  a  degree  less 
of  heat. 

For  raised  or  light  crust,  the  oven  m*ay  be  heated 
as  for  puff  paste. 

A  brick  oven  must  be  thoroughly  heated,  that  is, 
have  a  body  of  heat,  else  it  will  render  pastry  or 
cakes  heavy ;  this  must  be  attended  to  before  be- 
ginning to  bake;  there  may  be  sufficient  heat  to 
raise,  and  yet  not  enough  to  finish  baking. 

A  range  or  stove  oven  is  more  easily  managed ; 
it  is  necessary  to  have  it  thoroughly  heated,  and  a 
well  sustained  fire  to  keep  it  so,  for  those  things 
which  require  the  greatest  degree  of  heat;  those  re- 
quiring less  will  be  baked  after  these  are  done  ; 
there  should  alwaj^s  be  a  good  heat  at  the  bottom ; 
some  stove  ovens  are  so  well  constructed,  as  to 
have  a  regular  heat  throughout. 

When  baking  with  coal,  if  the  fire  is  not  brisk 
enough,  do  not  put  on  more  coal^'but  add  a  stick  or 
two  of  hard  wood,  or  if  near  I}''  done,  put  in  a  stick 
of  pine  wood. 

Tin  summer  ovens  are  very  good  for  small  things, 


244  BAKING    AND    MAKING    PIES,    &C. 

such  as  cakes,  biscuits,  and  custards,  but  such  as 
require  a  body  of  heat,  will  not  do  well  in  them. 
The  charcoal  for  heating  them  should  be  in  rather 
small  pieces,  and  replenished  a  little  at  a  time,  as 
it  burns  away ;  by  this  means  you  may  have  a 
steady  and  more  regular  heat. 

Sheet  iron  summer  ovens  are  preferable  to  tin, 
and  are  heated  in  the  same  manner  ;  these  are  very 
convenient  for  small  families.  A  few  cents  worth 
of  charcoal  will  get  a  nice  breakfast  for  five  or  six, 
if  rightly  managed;  thus,  after  kindling  a  fire  in 
the  furnace,  with  a  few  bits  of  twisted  paper  or 
splintered  pine  wood,  and  small  pieces  of  charcoal, 
nearly  fill  it  with  coal ;  set  a  kettle  of  water  over, 
then  make  out  biscuit,  short-cake,  or  corn  meal 
bread,  as  you  like  ;  the  oven  by  this  time  is  heated; 
put  them  in  to  bake  ;  two  quarts  of  water  will  now 
be  nearly  boiling,  put  four  even  tablespoonsful  of 
coffee  in  a  coffee  pot  or  bowl,  add  to  it  a  little  cold 
water,  and  a  third  of  the  white  of  an  egg^  mix  it 
well  together  ;  if  it  is  in  a  coffee-pot,  pour  the  boil- 
ing water  from  the  teakettle  on  it ;  cover  it,  and  set 
it  over  the  fire  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then  set 
it  by  for  a  few  minutes  to  settle,  or  if  it  is  mixed  in 
a  bowl,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water,  and  finish  in 
the  same  manner.  After  this  is  done,  a  small  steak 
may  be  broiled  or  fried  over  the  furnace  in  fifteen 
minutes  ;  or  eggs  may  be  boiled.  The  whole  will 
require  rather  more  than  one  hour.  This  is  econo- 
my, where  a  fire  is  not  required  for  other  purposes 
during  the  day  ;  and  as  it  is  all  done  within  the  fire- 
place, the  room  in  which  it  is  done  is  not  heated 
by  it.  ^ 

A  nice  dinner  may  be  cooked  for  a  small  family 
in  this  manner  ;  make  a  small  bread  pudding  or 
custardj  have  a  breast  of  veal  or  lamb,  or  a  shoul- 
der, or  any  small  piece  ;  prepare  it,  and  set  them 


FINEST    PUFF    PASTE.  245 

side  by  side  in  the  oven  ;  put  vegetables  in  a  pot 
over  the  furnace,  or  peeled  potatoes  in  with  the 
meat,  keep  up  a  brisk  fire  for  an  hour,  and  the  din- 
ner is  done.  Half  a  peck  of  charcoal  will  be 
enough  for  it. 

Finest  Puff  Paste,  for  Puffs. — Heap  one 
pound  of  flour  in  the  centre  of  the  paste-board,  or 
slab,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  break  one  egg 
into  it ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  mix  these  lightly  to- 
gether, with  a  little  cold  water ;  add  the  w^ater,  a 
little  at  a  time,  until  the  flour  is  made  a  nice  paste ; 
work  it  together,  and  roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch 
thickness;  then  divide  a  pound  of  butter  in  six 
parts,  spread  one  part  over  the  paste  ;  then  fold  it, 
and  roll  it  out  again,  until  you  can  perceive  the  but- 
ter through  ;  then  spread  over  another  part,  fold 
it  up  and  roll  out  again,  and  so  continue  until  all 
is  used,  and  it  has  been  through  six  turns.  It  is 
now  ready  for  making  in  pies,  puffs,  or  any  other 
purpose  ;  and  may  be  used  immediately,  or  set  in  a 
refrigerator  or  ice  box,  or  other  cool  place  for  a  day 
or  two,  and  be  improved  thereby. 

A  marble  slab,  and  rolling-pin,  are  Dest  for  pas- 
try, and  much  more  durable  ;  after  using  them, 
wash  off  all  the  old  paste,  scrape  them  clean,  wash 
them  first  with  cold  w^ater,  then  pour  scalding  wa- 
ter over  them,  and  w^ipe  them  dry. 

Have  a  hair  sieve  ready  to  sift  any  flour  you 
may  wish  to  use  ;  this  is  but  little  trouble,  or  delay, 
and  always  best  to  sift  flour. 

To  gild  pastiy,  wet  it  over  when  nearly  done, 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  with  a  little  milk. 

Common  Puff  Paste,  ybr  Pies, — Put  one  pound 
of  sifted  wheat  flour  on  the  slab,  or  into  an  earthen 
basin  ;  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre,  work  into  it 


246  LIGHT    PUFF    PASTE. 

quaiter  of  a  pound  of  lard,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  when  it  is  mixed  through  the  flour,  add  a3 
much  cold  water  as  will  bind  it  together ;  then 
strew  a  little  flour  over  the  paste-board,  or  table  ; 
flour  the  rolling-pin,  and  roll  out  the  paste  to  half 
an  inch  thickness  ;  divide  half  a  pound  of  butter 
in  three  parts  ;  spread  one  evenly  over  the  paste  ; 
fold  it  up,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  the  paste- 
slab,  or  table  ;  roll  it  out  again,  spread  another  por- 
tion of  the  butter  over,  and  fold,  and  roll  again ;  so 
continue  until  all  the  butter  is  used  ;  roll  it  out  to 
quarter  of  an  inch  thickness  for  pies. 

This  paste  is  for  the  upper  crust  of  pies,  or  to 
line  tartlet  pans,  for  shells  for  fruit,  or  preserves. 
PuflT  paste  should  not  be  used  for  the  under  crust 
of  pies ;  when  not  having  space  enough  to  rise,  it 
becomes  greasy  and  heavy,  and  consequently  un- 
wholesome. Half  a  pound  of  shortening,  worked 
into  a  pound  of  flour,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  enough  water  to  bind  it,  will  make  an  under 
crust  rich  enough. 

A  Light  Puff  Paste. — Have  one  pound  of 
sifted  flour,  and  the  same  weight  of  sweet  butter ; 
work  one-fourth  of  the  butter  into  the  flour,  until  it 
is  like  sand  ;  measure  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  one  of  soda,  rub  it  through  the  seive; 
put  it  to  the  flour ;  add  enough  cold  water  to  bind 
it,  and  work  it  smooth ;  dredge  flour  over  the 
paste-slab,  or  board,  rub  a  little  flour  over  the 
roUing-pin,  and  roll  the  paste  to  about  half  an  inch 
thickness  ;  spread  over  the  whole  surface,  one-third 
of  the  remaining  butter,  then  fold  it  up ;  dredge 
flour  over  the  paste-slab,  and  roliing-pin,  and  roll 
it  out  again  ;  then  put  on  another  portion  of  the  but- 
ter, and  fold,  and  roll  again  ;  spread,  on  the  remain- 
ing butter,  and  fold,  and  roll  for  the  last  time^ 


FAMILY    PIE     CRUST.  247 

Paste  Ptjffs. — Roll  the  paste  to  rather  more 
than  half  an  inch  thickness,  and  cut  it  in  cakes 
vvith  a  tin  cutter,  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  tumbler  ; 
then  with  a  wineglass,  or  tin  cutler  of  that  size, 
mark  the  size  of  it  in  the  centre  of  the  larger  cake  ; 
lay  them  on  tins,  wet  the  tops  over  with  a  brush, 
dipped  in  an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  sugar,  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour  ;  when  done,  take 
out  the  c(flitre,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  jam.  Serve 
for  dessert  or  supper. 

Paste  Tarts. — Roll  pufF  paste  to  half  an  inch 
thickness,  cut  it  in  cakes  the  size  of  a  tumbler  ;  cut 
the  inside  from  one,  leaving  a  ring  the  width  of  a 
finger  ;  put  it  on  one  of  the  cakes,  wet  the  top  over 
with  th^  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  with  a  little  milk  ; 
make  several  in  the  same  manner,  lay  them  on 
baking  tins,  and  set  them  in  a  quick  oven,  for  near- 
ly half  an  hour  ;  then  put  a  tablespoonful  of  jelly, 
or  jam,  or  rich  stewed  fruit  in  the  centre  of  each; 
strew  a  little  fine  sugar  over,  and  return  them  to 
the  oven  lor  ten  minutes. 

Family  Pie  Crust,  Short. — Put  a  pound  of 
sifted  flour  into  a  bowl,  work  into  it  half  a  pound 
of  sweet  lard,  or  beef  dripping,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  salt  ;  when  it  is  thoroughly  mixed 
through,  put  to  it  enough  cold  water  to  bind  it  to- 
gether ;  flour  the  paste-slab,  or  table,  and  rolling 
pin,  take  a  part  of  the  paste,  and  roll  it  to  less  than 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness. 

This  will  be  quite  rich  enough  for  health  or 
taste. 

A  bit  of  volatile  salts,  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg, 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  put  to  the  paste, 
with  the  water  to  bind  it,  will  make  it  more  light 
and  delicate. 


24S  CANELLOXS. 

For  the  upper,  or  outside  crust  of  a  pie,  roll  the 
paste  out  thin,  spread  a  bit  of  butter,  half  the  size 
of  an  egg,  over  it ;  fold  it  up,  roll  it  out  again,  and 
cover  the  pie. 

Sweet  Paste  Jelly  Tarts. — Mixhalf  a  pound 
of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  half 
a  pound  of  butter  well  together,  with  a  bit  of  vola- 
tile salts  the  size  of  a  pea,  (dissolve  it  in  about  a 
tablespoonful  of  hoi  water ;)  when  it  is  all  dissolv- 
ed and  cooled,  add  it  to  the  paste  ;  beat  it  smooth 
with  a  rolling-pin.  then  roll  it  out  to  nearly  half  an 
inch  thickness  ;  cut  it  in  cakes,  the  size  of  the  top 
of  a  tumbler  ;  wet  the  top  of  each  over  with  a  lit- 
tle milk,  and  bake  on  tins,  in  a  hot  oven,  for  half  an 
hour  ;  when  done,  heap  a  tablespoonful  of'jelly,  or 
marmalade,  in  the  centre  of  each  ;  grate  sugar  over 
and  return  them  to  the  oven,  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. 

Sugar  Paste  Cream  Tarts. — To  one  pound 
of  flour,  put  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  one 
beaten  efjs: ;  work  it^t02:ether  with  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter,  in  which  is  dissolved  a  bit  of  volatile  salts,  hall 
the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg  ;  roll  it  as  thin  as  a  dol- 
lar piece  ;  rub  some  small  tin  tartlet  pans,  and  line 
them  with  the  paste  ;  bake  them  ten  minutes,  then 
fill  them  with  mock  cream  ;  grate  sugar  over,  and 
return  them  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown 
the  tops. 

Puff  paste  may  be  used  instead  of  the  above. 

Canellons. — Make  a  stiff  paste  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  flour,  half  as  much  white  sugar,  and 
a  teacupful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon  ;  beat  the  paste  well  with  a  roll- 
ing pin,  and  roll  it  as  thin  as  a  dollar  piece. 


CAKES    A    LA-POLANAISE.  249 

Make  little  canes  of  card  pnper  of  about  three 
inches  in  length,  and  one  in  diameter  ;  butter  the 
outside  well,  and  wrap  each  in  some  of  the  paste, 
close  it  neatly  on  one  side,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

When  they  are  done,  and  cooled  a  little,  take 
out  the  yjaper,  and  fill  them  with  jelly  or  marma- 
lade, or  fill  them  with  the  mixture  of  which  kisses 
are  made. 

Canellon's  Glaces. — Rollout  some  pufT paste 
quite  thin,  to  about  eighteen  inches  square,  and 
cut  it  into  about  twenty-four  strips,  have  by  you  as 
many  pieces  of  beach  wood  turned  ;  let  them  be 
about  six  inches  long,  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
diameter  at  one  end,  and  not  more  than  half  an 
inch  at  the  other;  (or  instead  of  wood,  these  may 
be  made  of  card  paper  or  tin,)  rub  them  over  w^ith 
butter,  moisten  one  side  of  the  strips  of  paste,  and 
wind  one  around  each  of  the  moulds  ;  begin  at  the 
smallest  end,  so  as  to  form  a  screw  four  inches  in 
length  ;  lay  them  on  baking  tins,  rather  distant 
from  each  other,  and  half  bake  them  in  a  quick 
oven,  then  take  them  out;  wet  them  over  wiih 
beaten  egg,  roll  them  lightly  in  powdered  loaf  sugar, 
and  return  them  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  to 
give  them  a  color ;  as  soon  as  you  take  them  from 
the  oven,  remove  the  moulds,  and  lay  them  to  cool. 
When  wanted  to  serve,  fill  them  with  jelly  or  kiss 
mixture. 

Cakes  a  La-Polanaise. — Take  puflT  paste,  roll 
it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in  pieces 
four  or  five  inches  square,  gather  up  the  four  cor- 
ners of  each,  have  ready  some  round  moulds,  dip 
them  in  warm  water,  and  put  them  inside  the 
cakes;  then  put  them  in  a  quick  oven;  when  they 


250 


REMARKS    ON    VU]    MAKING. 


are  tnree  parts  done,  Uike  them  out,  and  wash  them 
ov^erwith  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg;  sprinkle  pow- 
dered sugar  over,  and  finish  baking.  When  done, 
take  out  the  moulds,  and  fill  the  cakes  with  pre- 
serve, or  jelly,  or  mock  cream. 


k 


Trifles. — Work  one  egg,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  to  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiffpaste, 
roll  it  as  thin  as  a  dollar  piece,  and  cut  it  in  small 
round  or  squares  cakes,  drop  two  or  three  at  a  time 
into  boiling  lard ;  when  they  rise  to  the  surface  and 
turn  over,  they  are  done;  take  them  out  with  a 
skimmer,  and  lay  them  on  an  inverted  sieve  to 
drain.  When  served  for  dessert  or  supper,  put  a 
spoonful  pf  jelly  on  each. 

Nothings. — Break  two  or  three  fresh  eggs  into 
a  basin,  and  work  into  them  enough  flour  to  make  a 
very  slifl^  paste,  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  a  dol- 
lar piece ;  cut  them  in  small  cakes,  and  finish  the 
same  as  trifles. 

These  make  a  ver}''  pretty  dish ;  they  may  be 
served  with  jelly  or  jam,  between  each  two. 

Remarks  on  Pie  Making. — Pies  for  ordinary 
desserts  are  best  to  be  made  on  plates  of  six  or 
eight  inches  diameter,  and  when  served  with  a 
variety  of  puddings,  creams,  etcetera,  should  be  cut 
in  six  or  more  pieces. 

Pumpkin  pies  should  be  made  on  dishes  flat  at 
the  bottom,  nearly  an  inch  deep,  with  nearly  per- 
pendicular sides  ;  generally  they  should  not  be  larger 
than  a  breakfast  or  dinner  plate;  for  Thanksgiving 
dinner,  pumpkin  pie  being  the  crowning  dish  of 
the  feast,  should  be  matle  on  a  dish  so  large,  that 
each  of  the  guests  may  be  helped  to  a  piece  from 
one    and   the    same   pie,    which    may    be    orna- 


Ai'Pl.E     TAUT.  251 

mentod  for  the  occasion,  as  shall  hereafter  oe  di* 
rected. 

Mince  pies,  for  Christmas,  should  be  dlslini^nish- 
ed  by  their  size  and  ornaments,  from  those  for  or- 
dinary occasions. 

A  New-Year's  day  table  is  not  finished  without 
its  njince  pies,  which  should  be  made  small,  not 
lari^er  than  tartlets,  or  made  on  the  smallest  tea  or 
dessert  plates,  that  they  may  be  cut  in  two  or  four 
pieces. 

Apple  pies  should  always  be  served  with  roast 
pig  or  goose. 

Apple  Pie. — Rub  a  pie  dish  over  with  a  bit  of 
butter;  line  it  with  short  pie  crust  roller!  thin;  pare  ' 
some  rich  tart  apples,  and  cut  them  in  small  [)ieces  ; 
fill  the  pie  dish  an  inch  thick,  lay  them  evenly 
over  ;  if  the  apples  are  sour,  use  a  teacup  of  sugar, 
to  a  quart  bowl  of  cut  apj)les  ;  strew  it  over  them, 
then  grate  half  a  nutmeg  over,  strew  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  evenly  over,  and  half  a  teas[)oonfal  of  around 
cinnamon  ;  then  cover  with  a  paste  or  pulT  paste 
crust ;  trim  off  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  a 
slit  in  the  centre,  or  make  it  befu'e  putting  it  over 
the  pie  ;  pass  a  gigling  iron  around  the  pie,  half  an 
inch  inside  of  the  edge,  and  bake  for  nearly  an  hour 
in  a  quick  oven  ;  if  they  are  quite  small,  half  an 
hour  will  bake  them.  You  may  gild  the,  tops  by 
brushing  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten 
with  a  little  milk,  before  putting  them  in  the  oven, 
or  when  half  done. 

Apple  Tart. — Peel  and  slice  some  nice  tart 
apples,  and  stew  them,  with  a  small  teacup  of 
v/ater,  and  the  same  of  sugar,  to  a  quart  of  sliced 
apples  ;  add  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  or  lemon  extract, 


252  DRIED    APPLE    TART. 

or  half  a  teaspoonfnl  of  ground  cinnamon;  set  thorn 
to  become  cold;  line  some  small  pie  f)lates  with 
rich  pie  paste,  or  light  puff  paste,  put  in  the  stewed 
apples  half  an  inch  deep,  roll  out  some  of  the  y)aste, 
wet  it  over  slightly  with  the  yolk  of  an  ego:,  beaten 
with  a  little  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  cut 
it  in  strips  the  w^irlth  of  a  finger,  and  lay  it  in  bars 
or  diamonds  across  the  tart;  lay  another  strip 
around  the  edge,  trim  off  the  outside  neatly  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the 
paste  loosens  from  the^dish. 

Dried  Apple  Pie. — Cut  out  all  imperfections 
from  tart  d.-ied  npples,  (a  sharp  pair  of  scissors  is 
best  for  this  purpose)  then  rinse  them  in  cold  water, 
put  them  in  a  vessel  and  put  water  over  three 
inches  more  than  to  cover  them  ;  let  them  stand  one 
night,  then  put  them  over  a  gentle  fire  whh  the 
water  in  which  the^y  were  soaked,  cover  tliem 
and  let  them  stew  gently  ;  boil  a  lemon  in  water 
until  a  straw  will  pierce  the  skin  ;  cut  it  in  thin 
slices,  or  smaller,  and  put  it  to  the  apples  witK 
the  juice  from  it ;  add  half  a  pound  of  clean  brown 
sugar  for  each  quart  of  apples,  let  them  stew  until 
they  are  soft,  then  turn  them  into  dishes  to  become 
rold. 

Rub  the  pie  dishes  over  with  a  small  bit  ot 
sponge,  dipped  in  butter,  line  them  with  pie-paste, 
put  in  the  stewed  apple  half  an  inch  thick,  thinning 
it  towards  the  edirc  ;  roll  an  upper  crust  rather 
thin,  cut  three  or  f:)ur  small  slits  each  side  of  the 
middle  and  put  it  over  the  pie;  trim  them  neatly 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Dried  Apple  Tart.^-— Prepare  the  apples,  and 
make  the  same  as  for  pie,  with  the  exception  of  the 


RIPE  PLUM  PIES.  253 

cover,  instead  of  which,  put  strips  of  paste  in  bars 
or  diamonds. 

Dried  Peach  Pie. — Prepare  the  fruit  and  finish 
the  same  as  dried  apple  pie. 

Dried  Peach  Tart. — Make  the  same  as  directed 
for  dried  apple  tart. 

Dried  Plum  Pie. — Wash  dried  plums  in 
plenty  of  water,  put  them  to  soak  at  night  in  water 
to  cover  them  ;  in  the  morning  put  them  to  stew 
with  the  same  water,  put  a  pound  of  clean  brown 
sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  let  there  be  plenty  of 
liquid,  if  not  enough,  add  hot  water,  cover  them 
and  let  them  stew  until  the  syrup  is  rich,  turn  them 
into  flat  dishes  to  become  cold.  Cover  a  pie  dish 
with  paste,  put  in  the  stewed  fruit  and  juice,  half  an 
inch  deep,  dredge  a  little  wheat  flour  over,  and  cover 
with  a  rich  pie  or  puff  paste  crust ;  bake  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven  ;  gild  the  top  over  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  v/ith  a  little  milk,  when 
half  done,  or  grate  white  sugar  over  when  served. 

Dried  Plum  Tart. — Prepare  the  fruit  and 
finish  the  same  as  pie  with  the  exception  of  the 
upper  crust,  instead  of  which  put  strips  of  paste 
over  in  bars  or  diamonds,  finish  with  a  strip  laid 
around  the  edge,  trim  off  the  outside  and  bake  half 
an  hour  in  a  quick  oven,  or  bake  until  the  crust 
loosens  from  the  dish. 

Or,  line  some  small  tartlet  pans  with  tart  paste, 
fill  them  with  the  stewed  fruit,  grate  sugar  over, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  paste  loosens 
from  the  pans. 

Ripe     Plum     Pie.s. — Stew    ripe    plums     with 


2-34  SOUR  CHERRY  PIE. 

water  to  cover  them,  put  a  teacup  of  brown  sugar, 
or  more  if  they  are  sour,  cover  them  aud  let  them 
stew  gently  until  they  are  soft,  then  take  them  in 
flat  dishes  to  become  cold,  and  finish  as  directed 
for  dried  plums.  Tarts  may  be  made  as  directed 
f-)r  dried  plums. 

Green  Plums — require  to  be  stewed  as  directed 
for  ripe  plums,  with  twice  as  much  s\]gar. 

Green  Gage  Pies  or  Tarts. — Stew  green 
gages  as  directed  for  ri|)e  plums,  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  to  them  and  finish  as  directed  for  dried 
plums  ;  green  gages  make  delicious  pies   or  tarts. 

Dried  Cherries. — Rinse  a  quart  of  cherries, 
dried  without  the  stones,  in  cold  water  ;  put  them 
in  a  stewpan  or  brass  kettle  with  water,  three 
inches  more  than  to  cover  them  ;  cover  the  vessel 
in  which  they  are  and  let  ihem  stew  gently  over  a 
moderate  fire  for  half  an  hour,  then  put  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar  to  them  and  let  them  stew  for  half  an 
hour  longer;  having  lined  the  pie  dishes  with 
paste,  put  in  the  cherries  and  juice  half  an  inch 
deep,  strew  a  small  teaspoonful  of  flour  over ;  roll 
out  an  upper  crust,  enough  to  cover  the  pie  ;  make 
several  small  incisions  on  either  side  of  the  middle, 
cut  a  strip  of  paste  the  width  of  a  finger,  and  lay  it 
around  the  edge  of  the  pie,  put  the  cover  over,  trim 
ofl^the  edge,  even  with  the  dish,  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  paste  loosens 
from  the  plate  ;  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
will  bake  them.  This  is  a  fine  pie  ;  the  top  may 
be  gilded  as  directed,  previously. 

Sour  Cherry  Pie. — Take  the  stems  from  fair 
ripe  cherries,  rinse  them  in  a  little  cold  water,  line 


CRANBEREi"  PIE   OR  TARTS.  255 

a  pie  plale  with  famil}'  pie-crust,  put  in  a  layer  of 
ciierries  to  cover  the  surface,  put  in  cold  water  to 
half  cover  them,  dredge  them  white  with  flour  (if 
the  cherries  are  small  put  two  layers  of  them)  put 
a  large  teacup  of  clean  brown  sugar  to  a  quart  bowl 
of  stemmed  cherries,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  and 
cover  the  pie  with  a  light  puff  paste  or  feinily  pie- 
crust; bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  until  the 
pie  loosens  from  the  dish  ;  gild  tlie  top  when  half 
done,  or  grate  sugar  over  when  it  is  served. 

Peach  Pie. — Peaches  for  pie  may  be  ripe  but 
not  soft;  pare  them,  cut  them  up  and  finish  as 
directed  for  apple  pies.  Unripe  peacljes  may  be 
pared  and  stewed  as  directed  for  apple  tart,  and 
baked  in  a  pie  or  tart. 

Whole  Peach  Pie. — Take  small  sized  peaches, 
not  fully  ripe,  pare  tliem  without  cutting  them  up;  - 
line  a  dish  with  pie  paste,  lay  the  peaches  in  close 
together,  put  in  a  little  water,  for  a  pie  the  size  of 
a  large  dinner  plate ;  strew  over  a  small  teacup  of 
sugar,  dredge  a  small  teaspoonful  of  flour  over, 
grate  half  a  small  nutmeg  over,  and  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  and  cover  the  pie ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre, 
and  bake  for  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cranberry  Pie  or  Tarts. — Pick  a  quart  of 
cranberries  free  from  imperfections,  put  a  pint  of 
water  to  them,  and  put  them  in  a  stev'j'-pan,  over  a 
^moderate  fire;  put  a  pound  of  clean  brown  sug'ir 
to  them,  and  stew  them  gently,  until  ^hej'^  are  all 
soft,  then  mash  them  with  a  silver  sp<.  jn,  an.d  turn 
them  into  a  dish  to  become  cold,  then  make  them 
in  pies  or  tarts,  and  bake.  Many  per?  »ris  put  flour 
in  cranberry  pies  ;  it  is  a  great  mistak  ,  as  it  com- 
pletely spoils  the  color  of  the  fruit. 


250  RHUBARB    TART. 

Lemon  Pie. — Boil  six  fresh  lemons  in  fair  water 
until  a  straw  will  penetrate  tlje  skin,  then  take 
thein  out,  chop  them  fine,  and  take  out  the  pips; 
to  a  pound  of  light  brown  sugar  put  a  teacup  of 
water;  let  it  boil,  skimming  it  clear  until  it  is  a 
nice  syrup,  then  put  in  the  lemon  and  set  it  to 
cool  ;  cover  a  shallow  plate  with  pie-paste,  put  in 
the  lemon,  spread  out  to  nearly  the  edge,  cover 
with  a  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  and  bake. 

Mp:ringue  Pie. — ^Tliis  may  be  made  by  adding 
to  a  nicely  made  and  baked  tart,  a  nice  whip,  made 
as  follows :  to  the  white  of  a  fresh  egg^  add  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  finely  pulverized  white  sugar,  flavor 
with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  any  other  flavor,  which  may 
be  liked,  whip  the  same  as  for  kisses,  then  with  a 
knife  lay  it  on  the  top  of  the  tart,  and  shape  it 
nicely  off"  at  the  edges,  then  set  it  into  an  oven  and 
close  it  for  a  few  minutes  until  it  is  delicately 
browned. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Cut  the  large  stalks  off  where 
the  leaves  commence  ;  strip  off  the  outside  skin, 
then  cut  the  stalks  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long;  line 
a  pie  dish  with  paste  rolled  rather  thicker  than  a 
dollar  piece,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  rhubarb  nearly 
an  inch  deep  ;  to  a  quart  bowl  of  cut  rhubarb,  put 
a  large  teacup  of  sugar,  sirew  it  over  with  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated ;  cover 
with  a  rich  pie  crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  trim 
off  the  edge  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven,  until  the  pie  loosens  from  the  dish,  lihubarb 
pies  made  in  this  way,  are  altogether  superior  to 
those  made  of  the  fruit  stewed. 

Rhubarb  Tart. — Peel  the  stalks,  and  cut  them 


GREEN    CURRANT    PIE.  257 

ill  inch  lengths  ;  to  a  quart  bowl  of  pieces,  put  half 
a  teacup  of  water,  and  a  teacup  of  clean  brown 
sugar  ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  stew  gently  until  it  may 
be  mashed,  then  make  it  fine  with  a  spoon,  add  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated  ;  line 
small  pie  dishes  or  tartlet  pans,  put  in  the  stewed 
fruit  nearly  half  an  inch  deep  ;  roll  some  paste  to 
half  an  inch  thickness,  brush  it  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  beaten  with  a  httle  milk,  cut  it  in  strips 
the  width  of  a  finger,  and  lay  it  across  the  pie;  lay 
a  strip  around  the  edge,  then  trim  it  off  even  with 
the  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  a  half  an 
hour,  or  until  the  paste  loosens  from  the  dish ; 
these  tarts  may  be  baked  without  the  strips 
across. 

HucKLE  OR  Whortleberry  Pie. — Put  a  quart 
of  picked  huckleberries  into  a  basin  of  water,  take 
off  whatever  floats,  take  up  the  berries  by  the  hand- 
ful, pick  out  all  the  stems  and  unripe  berries,  and 
put  them  into  a  dish  ;  line  a  buttered  pie  dish  with 
a  pie  paste,  put  in  the  berries  half  an  inch  deep, 
and  to  a  quart  of  berries  put  a  teacup  of  brown 
sugar,  and  half  a  teacup  of  water  ;  dredge  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  over,  strew  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  nutmeg  grated  over  ;  cover  the  pie,  cut  a 
slit  in  the  centre,  or  make  several  small  incisions 
on  either  side  of  it,  press  the  two  crusts  together 
around  the  edge,  trim  it  off  neatly  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Ripe  Currant  Pie. — Make  as  directed  for 
huckleberry  pie  ;  use  twice  as  much  sugar,  and  a 
puff  paste  crust.  ^ 

Green    Currant   Pie    or    Tarts. — Pick  the 

17 


258  CRE^xM    PIES. 

currants  i'vee  from  stems,  stew  them  as  directed  for 
rhubarb  tarts,  and  make  in  pie  or  tarts. 

Gooseberry  Tarts  and  Pies. — Take  off  the 
stems  and  blossom  end  ;  wash  them  and  stew  them 
the  same  as  rhubarb  for  tarts  ;  make  them  in  pies, 
or  make  them  in  tarts ;  strew  a  little  sugar  over, 
and  bake. 

Green  Grapes  for  Pies  and  Tarts. — Pick 
green  grapes  from  the  stems,  and  stew  them  with  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  to  a  (]uart 
bowl  of  grapes  ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half 
a  nutmeg  grated,  and  finish. 

Huckleberries  stewed  with  green  grapes,  make 
a  nice  pie  ;  allow  a  teacup  of  sugar  for  a  quart  of 
huckleberries. 

Blackberry  Pie. — Pick  the  berries  clean,  rinse 
them  in  cold  water,  and  finish  as  directed  for  huc- 
kleberries. 

Cream  Pies. — Scald  a  quart  of  sweet  cream, 
beat  four  or  five  eges  light,  then  stir  them  into  the 
scalding  cream  ;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  sah,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  extract  of  lemon  or  peacli  water, 
and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  if  liked  ;  sweeten  to 
taste,  (about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  is  enough,) 
have  fiat  pie  dishes,  with  nearly  perpendicular 
sides  rub  them  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  di[)pe(l  in 
melted  butler,  line  them  with  pie  paste  rolled  (juite 
thin,  set  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes,  then 
put  in  the  cream  nearly  to  fill  them,  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour. 

These  pies,  and  also  pumpkin  and  custard  pies, 
may  be  very  prettily  ornamented,  when  half  baked, 
V^'ith  flowers,  stars,  or  letters,  cut  from  thin  rolled 


RICE    PIES.  259 

paste;  if  letters  or  love-knots  are  used,  form  them 
of  narrow  strips  of  paste  ;  the  cream  or  custard 
must  be  firm,  before  these  are  put  on,  otherwise 
they  will  sink. 

Ci-STARD  Pies. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  beat  four 
or  five  eggs  light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into  it, 
and  finish  as  directed  for  cream  pies. 

"'^'  Custard  Pie.  a  Labor  Saving  Fie,  which 
makes  its  own  Paste. — Beat  four  eggs  with  four  des- 
sert-spoonsful of  wheat  flour,  until  they  are  light, 
then  gradually  stir  into  it  a  quart  of  milk  ;  add  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  with 
sugar  to  taste ;  (about  two  dessert-spoonsful  is 
enough,)  rub  a  square  tin  pie-pan  over  with  a  bit 
of  butter,  and  put  the  mixture  in  nearly  to  fill  it; 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  (]nick  oven. 

This   is  a  truly  "  Native  American  Democratic 
Citizen"  pie,  and  being  such,  could  it  prove  other 
than  excellent? 

Mock  Cream  Pies. — Make  the  cream  as  di- 
rected, (see  mock  cream,)  and  finish  the  same  as 
cream  pies ;  bake  them  until  nicely  browned  at 
the  top. 

Rice  Pies. — Pick  and  wash  a  wine-glass  of 
rice,  and  boil  it  in  a  quart  of  milk  until  soft,  then 
take  it  from  the  fire,  having  beaten  three  eggs  light, 
stir  them  gradually  into  it  ;  add  a  small  teacup  of 
sugar,  and  a  small  nutmeg  grated,  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  extract 
of  le  mon.or  peach  water,  if  liked.  Line  Hat  pie 
dishes  with  pie  paste,  nearly  fill  them  with  the  pie  /^ 
mixture,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 


260  THANKSGIVING    PIE. 

jRicE  Flour  Pie. — Make  this  pie  as  directed  foi 
mock  cream,  using  rice  flour  instead  of  wheat. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Cut  up  a  nice  cheese  pumpkin, 
take  out  the  seeds  and  stringy  inside,  pare  off  the 
rind,  and  cut  the  pumpkin  small,  then  put  it  in  a 
ketile  with  a  teacup  of  water;  cover  the  vessel, 
and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fii*e,  until  the  pumpkin  is 
soft  enough  to  mash  w^heri  lightly  pressed  ;  then  set 
a  colander  or  sieve  into  a  basin,  take  the  stewed 
pumpkin  into  it,  and  press  it  through  into  the  basin 
with  a  ladle  or  wooden  spoon  ;  when  it  is  all  rub- 
bed through,  add  to  it  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  to  every  quart  of  this  batter  put  four  well 
beaten  eggs ;  make  it  sweet,  a  small  teacup  of 
sugar,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  for  each  quart,  is 
about  what  will  generally  be  liked  ;  grate  in  a  nut- 
meg, and  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon,  and 
some  ground  ginger,  if  liked. 

Line  flat  bottomed  pie  dishes  with  pie  paste, 
and  nearly  fill  them  with  the  pumpkin  mixture, 
lay  a  strip  of  paste  around  the  edge,  trim  off  the 
outside  neatly,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
in  a  quick  oven  ;  the  top  of  the  pie  should  be 
delicately  brown.  Ornament  as  directed  for  cream 
pies. 

A  less  number  of  eggs  than  is  mentioned  in  this 
receipt,  may  be  used;  pumpkin  pies  are  sometimes 
made  w^ithout  any  eggs  ;  these  are  less  delicate,  as 
may  be  supposed. 

Thanksgiving  Pie. — Prepare  pumpkin  pie  mix- 
ture as  directed  in  the  last  receipt ;  take  a  very- 
large  flat  pie  dish  with  nearly  perpendicular  sides, 
and  nearly  an  inch  in  depth  ;  the  dish  should  be 
of  earthen  or  tin  and  nearly  eighteen  inches  across; 


MINCE  PIE   MEAT.  261 

rub  It  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in  nielted 
butter,  cover  it  with  family  pie-crust  rolled  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  a  strip  of  paste,  the  width  of  a 
finger,  and  put  it  around  the  inside  edge  of  the  pie, 
then  nearly  fill  it  with  the  pie  mixture,  and  put  it 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  ;  roll  some  puff  paste  to 
less  than  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness,  brush  it  over 
Avith  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then  cut  it  in  small 
stars  ;  cut  some  of  it  in  strips  the  w^idth  of  a  finger 
or  a  little  narrower  ;  when  the  pie  is  half  baked  so 
that  it  is  firm  or  set,  lay  it  on  the  stars,  at  a  little 
distance  from  the  edge,  and  the  same  distance  from 
each  other  ;  put  a  Jarger  one  in  the  centre  ;  of  the 
strips  of  paste  make  letters  to  spell  thanksgiving  ; 
and  put  six  on  either  side  of  the  star  in  the  centre, 
midway  between  that,  and  those  on  the  edge,  so  as 
to  form  a  curve  around  the  centre  ;  cut  a  strip  of 
the  paste  half  an  inch  wide  and  put  it  around  the 
edge  of  the  pie,  then  return  it  to  the  oven,  and  let 
it  remain  for  twenty  minutes  or  more  until  it  is 
nicely  colored  and  the  paste  is  cooked. 

To  serve  thanksgiving  pie  after  the  table  is 
cleared  for  dessert,  place  the  large  pie  in  the  centre, 
place  around  it,  puddings,  jellies,  etc.,  making  this 
the  crown  of  the  feast. 

Mince  Pie  Meat. — Take  a  nice  tender  piece  of 
beef  which  is  free  from  gristle,  skin,  or  strings  ;  the 
tongue  is  used  for  making  pies  as  is  also  a  sirloin; 
the  heart,  head  and  skirts  are  also  used  for  mince 
pies. 

The  tongue  or  sirloin  is  best,  put  the  meat  in  hot 
water  to  cover  it;  boil  it  gently  until  turning  a  fork 
in  it  will  break  it,  set  it  to  become  cold,  then 
lake  out  all  the  bone  and  gristle  parts  ;  if  the  tongue 
is  used,  peel  off*  the  skin ;  chop  it  very  fine. 


262  DOMESTIC    MIXCE    PIE    MEAT. 

To  Make  Mixce  Pie  Mixture. — Weigh  two 
pounds  of  the  chopped  meat,  put  to  it  two  pounds 
of  suet  free  from  strinf^s  or  skin,  and  chopped 
fine  ;  add  two  pounds  of  currants,  picked,  washed, 
and  dried,  and  four  pounds  of  peeled  and  chopped 
rich  tart  apples,  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 
the  chopped  peel  of  one;  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  and 
one  laro:e  nutmes:  grated,  or  ateaspoonful  of  ground 
mace,  three  pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar,  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  ground  cloves,  or  alspice,  and  the  same 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  large  tablespoon ful  of  salt  ;  mix 
the  whole  well  together,  put  it  in  a  stone  pot  or  jar, 
cover  it  close  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  use  ; 
mix  it  well  together  before  using. 

Mince  Pies. — Line  a  pie  dish  with  a  nice  puff 
paste,  rolled  to  twice  the  thickness  of  a  dollar  piece 
(first  having  rubbed  the  dish  over  witli  a  bit  of 
sponge  di[)[)ed  in  butter)  put  in  the  pie  mixture  half 
an  inch  deep,  and  spread  it  to  within  a  finger  width 
of  the  edge  ;  roll  out  a  puff  paste  crust,  turn  a  plate 
the  size  of  the  one  on  which  the  pie  is  made  on  to  il, 
and  with  a  knife  cut  the  paste  around,  the  size  of 
the  plate,  then  take  the  [)late  off',  make  three  small 
incisions  with  the  end  of  the  knife  on  either  side  of 
the  middle,  take  it  carefully  up,  and  cover  the  pie 
with  it,  press  it  lightly  with  the  finger  against  the 
bottom  crust,  put  it  in  quick  oven  fijr  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  the  top  may  be  brushed  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  eeir  beaten  with  a  little  milk.  Mince 
pies  made  in  this  way  should  be  served  warm. 

Domestic  Mince  Pie  Meat. — Boil  a  nice 
piece  of  beef  until  tender;  take  out  every  bit  of 
skin,  bone,  or  gristle,  and  chop  the  meat  fine  ;  to 
each  pound  of  chopped  meat,  put  of  ground  mace, 
cinnamon,  and  alspice,  each   a  teaspoonful,   with 


APPLE  MINCE  PIES.  263 

half  n  toa.>poonful  of  ground  cloves,  and  a  large 
teaspoon  fid  of  sail ;  put  to  the  meat  enough  syrup 
or  nlolasses  to  mjike  it  moist,  mix  it  well  together, 
and  pack  it  in  a  stone  jar,  dip  a  paper  in  brandy, 
and  lay  it  over  ;  cover  the  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  cold 
dry  place.     This  will  keep  all  winter. 

To  Finish  the  Pie  Mixture. — Pare,  core, 
and  chop  not  very  fine  some  tart  juicy  apples,  put 
to  them  one-third  as  much  of  the  prepared  meat; 
stone  one  pound  of  raisins,  and  cut  a  quarter  ot 
citron  in  small  bits,  add  a  gill  of  brandy,  and 
enough  sweet  cider  to  make  the  whole  quite  wet; 
a  peck  of  apples,  pared  and  chopped  wfth  a  quart 
bowl  of  the  prepared  meat,  and  the  raisins,  citron, 
and  cider,  as  al)ove  mentioned,  with  a  large  tea- 
cupful  of  brown  sugar,  is  enough  to  make  six  or 
seven  pies  the  size  of  a  dinner  plate;  a  teacupful 
of  fine  chopped  suet  may  be  added,  if  liked. 

To  Make  Mince  Pfes. — Rub  pie  dishes  over 
with  a  bit  of  sprnge  dipped  in  butter,  and  cover 
them  with  a  family  pie-crust,  rolled  quite  thin  ;  put 
in  the  pie  mixture  half  an  inch  deep,  cover  the  pie 
^with  some  of  the  paste,  trim  it  off  at  the  edge,  cut 
a  slit  in  the  centre,  press  the  upper  against  the 
under  crust  with  your  finger,  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

These  pies  -may  be  kept  three  or  four  v/eeks  in 
winter ;  when  wanted,  set  one  in  an  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  or  serve  them  cold. 

Apple  INFince  Pies. — One  pound  of  well  w^ash- 
ed  and  dried  Zante  currants,  one  pound  of  peeled 
and  chopped  apples,  one  pound  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  pound  of  moist  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound 
jf  raisiPiS  stoned  and  cut  in  two,  the  juice  of  foui 


264  BREAD,    BISCUIT,  ROLLS,  &C. 

oranges  and  two  lemons,  with  the  chopped  peel 
of  one  ;  add  of  ground  mace  and  alspice,  ench  a 
teaspoonful,  and  a  wineglass  of  brandy;  mix  tfiem 
well  together,  and  keep  it  closely  covered  in  a  dry 
cool  place.  Bake  with  two  crusts,  the  same  as 
mince  pies. 

Meringue  Pie. — Make  any  nice  rich  tart  and 
bake  it,  then  having  beaten  the  whites  of  two  eggs  \ 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  finely  pulverized 
wliite  sugar,  until  it  may  be  moulded  with  a  knife, 
lay  it  over  the  tart  an  inch  or  less  thick,  even  the 
sides,  and  ])ut  it  into  an  oven  for  a  few  minutes  un- 
til it  is  slightly  colored,  serve  hot  or  cohl. 

These  tarts  should  be  made  of  preserves  or  jams 
or  else  fruits  stewed  veiy  rich. 


DIRECTIONS 

For    Making    Varieties    of  Bread,  Biscuit,   Rolls ^ 
Cakes,  Ifc,  ^'c. 

Introductory  Remarks. — An  oven  to  bake 
\vell,  should  have  a  regular  heat  throughout,  but 
particularlv  at  the  bottouj,  without  whii^jii^bread  or 
cakes  will  not  rise  or  bake  well ;  bread  and  cakes 
are  as  oftea  spoiled  in  baking  as  in  making. 

Bread  or  large  cakes  had  better,  if  convenient, 
be  tK3nt  to  a  competent  family  baker,  if  you  have 
not  a  n:ood  baking  oven. 


BREA.O,    BISCUIT,  ROLLS,  &C.  265 

Small  cakes,  such  as  tea-biscuit,  rolls,  jumbals, 
drop  cakes,  etc.,  bake  nicely  in  a  tin  or  sheet 
iron  summer  oven;  these  should  often  be  looked  to, 
as  those  nearest  the  furnace  will  first  be  done ; 
when  they  are  so,  either  turn  the  pan  about,  or  re- 
move those  that  are  done,  putting  the  unfinished 
ones  in  their  places,  and  fresh  ones  in  place  of 
them. 

For  baking  bread,  plum  cake,  or  other  large 
cakes,  have  round  tin  pans  with  sides  nearly  per- 
pendicular. For  cakes,  line  the  pans  with  white 
paper,  rubbed  over  with  butter.  Pans  with  nearly 
straio'ht  sides  bake  more  evenlv,  and  are  more  easi- 
ly  iced  than  slanting  sides. 

A  brick  oven  for  baking  bread,  should  be  as  hot 
as  vou  can  bear  to  hold  vour  hand  in,  whilst  count- 
ing  t'vventy  or  twenty  seconds  ;  this  is  an  established 
rule  in  most  fnrm  houses. 

De2:rees  of  heating  ovens  for  baking,  are — cool  or 
slow  heat ;  moderate  or  sfentle  is  a  deo:ree  stronorei 
than  slow,  and  is  like  a  hot  breeze  or  breath  ;  a 
quick  heat  is  hot,  but  not  intensely ;  a  degree 
stronger  is  a  hot  oven  ;  still  stronger  is  scorching 
hot,  and  fit  for  nothing  but  destruction. 

One  accustomed  to  baking,  will  readily  under- 
stand what  degree  of  heat  is  meant  by  the 
terms  used ;  one  not  accustomed,  must  need 
learn. 

In  using  volatile  salts  or  saleratus  for  bread  or 
cakes,  it  should  be  powdered,  and  dissolved  with  a 
little  hot  w^ater  before  putting  it  into  the  bread  or 
cakes. 

A  bit  of  volatile  salts  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg, 
powdered  fine  and  dissolved  wnth  a  Utile  !iot  water 
and  added  to  a  pound  or  sponge  cake  will  insure  a 
light  cake  ;  it  is  much  used  by  cake  bakers  ;  car- 
bonate of  soda  maybe  used  instead  of  this.     The 


SGG  BREAD    BISCUIT,  ROLLS,  ETC. 

salts  is  generalh'  put  with  the  beaten  eggs^  and 
beaten  with  them  for  ten  minutes  or  more. 

Volatile  salts  should  be  kept  in  a  glass  bottle  or 
iar,  with  a  ground  stopper. 

Saleratus  or  bi-carbonate  of  soda  (which  mny  be 
flsed  in  place  of  saleratus)  mnybe  kept  in  a  wooden 
box  with  a  cover  ;  it  must  be  kept  perfectly  dry, 
the  least  moisture  will  spread  through  and  dissolve 
a  large  quantit3\ 

An  earthen  basin  is  best  for  beating  eggs  or  cake 
mixture  in. 

Cake  should  be  beaten  with  a  wooden  spoon  or 
spatula,  like  an  old  fashioned  pudding  stick;  but- 
ter may  be  beaten  with  the  like. 

Eggs  should  be  be;jten  with  rods,  or  a  brond 
fork  ;  a  silver  fork  or  one  mnde  of  iron  wire  is  best, 
.as  it  is  broadest  ;  eggs  should  be  clear  and  fresh 
for  cake. 

None  but  good  sweet  butter  sljould  be  used  for 
cake  making;  should  it  be  rather  S'ill,  it  will  do  no 
harm  ;  butter  in  the  least  degree  rank  or  strong 
will  spoil  a  cake. 

It  is  well  as  a  general  rule  in  cake  making  to 
beat  the  butter  and  sugar  (which  must  first  be 
made  fine)  to  a  lidit  cream  ;  indeed,  in  the  making 
of  pound  cake,  the  lightness  of  the  cake  depends  as 
much  upon  this,  as  upon  the  eggs  being  well  beaten  ; 
tlien  beat  the  e.mrs  and  put  them  to  the  butter  and 
gradually  add  the  flour  and  other  ingredients,  beat- 
ing it  all  the  time. 

In  common  cakes  where  only  a  few  eggs  are 
used,  beat  them  until  3'ou  can  take  a  spoonful  up 
clear  from  strings. 

For  pound,  sponire,  or  other  fine  cakes,  observe 
each  particular  direction. 

Before  beginning  to  mix  a  cake,  see  that  ail 
the    ingredients    are    before    you,    otherwise     by 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,   ROLLS,   ETC.  267 

omitting  one  or  more,  you  may  spoil  your  cake. 
Cake  mixture  cannot  be  beaten  too  much  ;  it  is 
not  enough  to  beat  it  whilst  mixing,  but  the  opera- 
tion should  be  continued  after  all  the  parts  are 
added,  until  the  whole  is  light  and  creamy. 

In  receipts  in  which  milk  is  used  as  one  ingredient, 
either  sweet  or  sour  may  be  used,  but  not  a  mixture 
of  both. 

Sour  milk  makes  a  spongy  light  cake  ;  sweet 
milk  makes  a  cake  which  is  more  fine,  and  cuts  like 
pound-cake. 

Almonds  for  cakes  or  macaroons  may  be  bought 
already  shelled,  for  two  shillings  per  pound,  which 
is  much  cheaper  and  less  troublesome  than  those  in 
the  shell. 

Almonds  for  macaroons  and  other  cakes,  should 
be  pounded  in  a  marl)le  mortar,  or  one  made  of 
hard  wood  (lignum  vitae.) 

To  blanch  almonds,  pour  boiling  water  on  them, 
and  let  them  remain  in  it  until  the  skins  may  be 
easily  removed,  then  take  it  off,  throw  the  almonds 
inio  cold  water  to  whiten  them,  drain  them  from  the 
water  but  do  not  wipe  them  ;  the  moisture  will 
prevent  their  oiling. 

For  making  lady-fingers,  confectioners  have  a  tin 
tube  as  long  as  your  finger,  like  the  spout  of  a  tun- 
n%l  ;  to  the  upper  part  of  this,  a  little  bag  is  at- 
tached, and  the  cake  mixture  put  in  it,  and  pressed 
out  on  to  the  paper,  the  size  and  length  desired  ;  the 
point  of  the  tube  may  be  larger  or  smaller  as  may 
be  required  ;  Savoy  biscuit  mixture,  maj''  be  baked 
as  lady-fingers,  for  making  charlotte  d'russe. 

In  making  cakes,  if  you  wish  them  to  be  pleasing 
to  the  eye  as  well  as  to  the  palate^  use  double 
refined  white  sugar,  although  clean  light  brown 
sugar  makes  an  equally  good  cake. 

Finely  pulverized  or  ground  sugar,  which  is  as 


268  BAKER  S    BREAD. 

fine  as  wheat  flour,  is  the  sort  for  icing  cakes,  and 
for  making  fine  cakes;  where  this  cannot  be  had, 
the  sugar  must  be  rolled  and  sifted,  or  pounded  in 
a  n^ortar. 

To  ascertain  whether  a  cake  is  baked  enough,  if 
a  small  one,  take  a  broom  splint,  and  run  it  through 
the  thickest  part,  if  it  is  not  done,  some  of  the  dough 
or  unbaked  cake  will  be  found  sticking  to  it ;  if 
done,  it  will  come  out  clean.  If  a  cake  is  large, 
take  a  teaspoon  handle  or  small  knife-blade,  instead 
of  the  broom  splint. 

All.  receipts  herein  contained,  will  be  found  to  be 
just  what  they  are  represented,  and  give  full  satis- 
faction, if  strictly  followed. 

To  keep  cakes  as  when  fresh  made  :  fold  a  thick 
napkin  about  them,  and  put  them  into  a  stone  jar, 
with  a  close  cover  ;  or  keep  them  in  a  tin  box  or 
canister,  tightly  covered,  in  a  cool  dark  closet. 

To  Make  Baker's  Bread. — To  one  quart  of 
warm  water,  put  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  stir  in  the 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  put  it  in  a  large  pitcher 
or  tin  pail,  and  let  it  set  in  a  large  pan,  in  a  warm 
place,  all  night. 

Early  next  morning,  put  seven  pounds  of  super- 
fine wheat  flour  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray,  heap 
it  around  the  sides,  leaving  a  hollow  in  the  centre, 
dissolve  a  bit  of  volatile  salts,  the  size  of  a  small 
nutmeg,  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  when  it  is  cool, 
put  it  to  the  batter,  pour  it  into  the  hollow  of  the 
flour  ;  powder  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  very 
small  hickory  nut,  make  it  as  fine  as  flour,  then  stir 
it  into  the  baiter,  until  it  is  a  white  foam,  add  to  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  gradually,  three  pints 
or  moieof  warm  water  with  this;  w-ork  all  the  flour 
into  a  dough  ;  knead  or  work  it  with  your  two 
hands,  until  it  is  a  smooth,  shining  paste,  then  strew 


WHEAT    BREAD.  269 

a  little  flour  over,  spread  a  thick  cloth  over,  and 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  until  it  has 
risen  to  twice  its  first  size,  then  dip  your  hands  in 
flour,  work  it  down  fine  and  smooth,  cover  it,  and 
set  it  near  the  fire  for  an  hour ;  knead  it  smooth 
again,  make  it  in  loaves,  and  bake  according  to 
their  size,  in  a  quick  oven  ;  if  the  mass  is  divided 
in  two  loaves,  they  will  require  one  hour's  baking 
in  a  quick  oven ;  if  divided  in  four,  half  an  hour 
will  be  sufficient. 

To  Make  Wheat  Bread. — Put  seven  pounds 
of  wheat  flour  in  a  large  bowl  or  tray,  heap  it  around 
the  sides,  leaving  a  hollow  in  the  centre ;  put  into  it  a 
quart  of  warm  water,  add  to  it  a  large  tablespoon- 
f  ul  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  (dissolved 
in  a  little  water,)  and  half  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast; 
have  three  pints  more  of  warm  water,  and  with  as 
much  of  it  as  may  be  necessary,  make  the  whole 
in  a  rather  soft  dough,  work  it  well  with  both  hands, 
(see  directions  for  kneading  bread,)  when  it  is 
smooth  and  shining,  strew  a  little  flour  over,  lay  a 
thickly  folded  cloth  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  for  four  or  five  hours,  then  knead  it  again  for 
fifteen  minutes,  cover  it,  and  let  it  set  to  rise  again  ; 
when  it  is  like  a  sponge,  work  it  down  again,  divide 
it  in  loaves,  either  two  or  four,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven,  according  to  their  size  ;  one  hour,  if  divided 
in  two  loaves;  half  an  hour  each,  if  divided  in 
four. 

This  bread  need  only  rise  once,  and  if  made  of 
the  best  superfine  flour,  will  be  beautifully  white  and 
light,  and  healthful  and  sweet. 

Any  who  will  follow  this  receipt,  either  with  once 
rising  or  twice,  will  have  uniformly  white  and  sweet 
bread. 

In  cold   weather,  bread  should  be   mixed   in  a 


270  POTATO    BREAD. 

warm  room,  and  not  nllowed  to  become  cold  whils; 
mix  in  2: :  have  a  thicklv  folded  cloth,  warm  it,  and 
lay  it  over,  and  set  the  bowl  in  a  warm  place  ;  if 
there  is  any  difficulty  about  its  rising,  set  the  bowl 
or  tray  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water.  It  is  as  well  to 
mix  this  bread  at  night,  in  cold  weather,  and  cover 
it  close,  in  a  warm  room,  until  morning. 

Potato  Bread. — To  make  potato  bread,  pare 
half  a  peck  of  nice  potatoes,  wash  them  through 
two  changes  of  water,  put  them  into  a  kettle  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  pour  over  them  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  tliem,  then  cover  the  kettle  or  pot, 
and  let  them  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer  if 
they  are  large  ;  then  take  them  fronj  the  kettle  of 
Doiling  water  with  a  skimmer,  into  a  cullender,  rub 
them  th.rough  it  into  a  dish  ;  put  seven  pounds  of 
wheat  Hour  into  a  bowl  or  tray,  make  a  hollow  in 
the  centre,  into  which  put  the  prepared  potatoes; 
add  nearly  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
dissolved  in  warm  water,  (it  must  be  entirely  dis- 
solved,) have  nearly  three  quarts  of  warm  water  or 
milk  in  a  pitcher,  and  with  as  much  of  it  as  may 
be  necessary,  make  the  potatoes  and  flour  into  a 
soft  dough  or  paste  ;  work  it  with  y^our  hands  with- 
out flouring  them,  until  it  will  not  stick  to  thetn,  and 
it  is  a  smooth,  glossy  mass,  then  put  a  cover  over 
the  pan,  cover  it  with  a  thickly  folded  cloth,  and 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  five  or  six  hours  in  warm 
weather,  or  all  night  in  winter  ;  it  will  then  be  as 
light  as  a  sponge  ;  dip  your  hands  lightly  in  flour, 
and  knead  or  work  the  bread  down  until  it  is  fine 
and  smooth,  then  set  it  to  rise  again  for  tw^o  hours  ; 
when  it  is  light,  w^ork  it  down  again,  divide  it  in 
three  or  six  loaves,  lay  them  in  a  large  pan  to  touch 
each  other,  (first  having  rubbed  the  pan  over  with 


WHEAT    AND    INDIAN    BREAD.  271 

a  sponge  dipped   in  butter,)  let  tbenn   set   for  ten 
minutes,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  one  hour,  if  di-^ 
vided  in  three,  or  half  an  hour  if  divided  in  six. 

It  is  not  usual  to  give  home-made  bread  more 
than  one  rising,  nor  is  it  necessary,  but  the  bread 
will  be  whiter  and  finer. 

Potatoes  for  bread  may  be  washed  through  three 
or  more  changes  of  water;  put  them  in  a  pot  with 
boiling  water  to  cover  them,  cover  the  pot,  and  let 
Tiem  boll  fast  for  forty  minutes,  if  small,  or  an  hour 
ii'  large,  then  take  them  from  the  water  with  a 
skimmer,  peel  them,  and  grate  them  on  a  coarse 
grater,  or  mash  them  fine,  one  by  one,  with  a  po- 
tato beetle,  then  finish  as  above  directed. 

To  Make  Twist  Bread. — Let  the  bread  be 
made  as  directed  for  baker's  or  for  wheat  bread, 
then  take  three  pieces  as  large  as  a  pint  bowl  each; 
strew  a  little  flour  over  the  paste-board  or  table, 
roll  each  piece  under  your  hands,  to  twelve  inches 
leno^th,  makino;  it  smaller  in  circumference  at  the 
ends  than  in  the  middle  ;  having-  rolled  the  three 
in  this  way,  take  a  baking  tin,  lay  one  part  on  it, 
join  one  end  of  each  of  the  other  two  to  it,  and  braid 
them  together  the  length  of  the  rolls,  and  join  the 
ends  by  pressing  them  together  ;  dip  a  brush  in 
milk,  and  pass  it  over  the  top  of  the  loaf;  after  ten 
minutes  or  so,  set  it  in  a  quick  oven,  and  bake  for 
nearly  an  hour. 

Wheat  and  Indian  Bread. — Put  three  pints 
of  water  over  the  fire,  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  add  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  salt,  stir  into  it  sweet  white 
corn  meal,  until  it  is  a  thick  batter  ;  continue  to  stir 
it  for  ten  minutes,  that  it  may  not  burn,  then  turn 
it  into  a  dish,  stir  into  it  a  quart  of  cold  water; 
when  it  is  cool  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in  it,  poui 


272  RYE    BREAD    CAKE. 

it  into  a  bowl,  in  which  is  seven  pounds  of  wheat 
flour,  heaped  around  the  sides,  so  as  to  leave  a  hol- 
low in  the  centre  ;  add  to  it  a  gill  of  baker's  3'^east, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water,  then  work  the  whole  into  a  smooth 
dough,  work  it  or  knead  for  nearly  an  hour,  then 
strew  a  little  flour  over  it,  lay  a  thickly  folded  cloth 
over,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  flye  or  six 
hours  in  summer,  or  mix  at  night  in  winter;  when 
light,  work  it  dow^n,  set  it  to  rise  again  for  one  hour, 
then  heat  the  oven,  work  the  bread  down,  and  di- 
vide it  in  loaves,  and  bake,  according  to  their  size, 
in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  taken  from  the  oven,  turn 
them  over  in  the  pans,  and  set  them  to  become 
cold  ;  if  the  crust  is  hard,  wrap  them  in  a  towel  as 
soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

Rye  Bread. — Make  the  same  as  wheat  and  In- 
dian bread,  substituting  rye  flour  for  wheat.  Or 
thus  :  to  a  quart  of  warm  water  stir  as  much  wheat 
flour  as  will  make  a  smooth  batter,  stir  into  it  half 
a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise;  this  is  called  setting  a  sponge;  let  it  be 
mixed  in  some  vessel  which  will  contain  twice  the 
quantity  ;  in  the  morning  put  three  pounds  and  a 
half  of  rye  flour  into  a  bowl  or  tray,  maka  a  hollow 
in  the  centre,  pour  in  the  sponge,  add  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  sale- 
ratus, dissolved  in  a  little  water,  make  the  whole 
into  a  smooth  dough,  with  as  much  warm  water  as 
may  be  necessary  ;  knead  it  well,  cover  it,  and  let 
it  set  in  a  warm  place  for  three  hours,  then  knead 
it  again,  and  make  it  in  two  or  three  loaves  ;  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  one  hour,  if  made  in  two  loaves,  or 
less  if  the  loaves  are  smaller. 

Rye  Bread  Cake. — Take  from  the  risen  dough, 


TO    KNEAD    BREAD.  273 

the  size  of  a  small  loaf,  work  into  it  a  small  teacup 
of  shortening,  make  it  in  a  flat  cake,  rather  more 
than  an  inch  thick,  rnd  bake  twenty  five  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Dyspepsia  Bread. — Work  three  quarts  of  un- 
bolted wheat  meal  into  a  dough,  with  one  quart  of 
warm  water,  half  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  one  teacup 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water  ;  knead  it  well,  then  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place,  until  it  has  risen  to  twice  its  original 
size,  then  work  it  down ;  divide  it  in  two  loaves, 
and  bake  in  buttered  basins,  in  a  quick  oven. 

Brown  Bread. — Make  as  directed  for  dyspep- 
sia bread ;  add  a  pint  bowl  of  rye  flour,  and  a  little 
more  water,  mix  it  well,  and  bake. 

Graham  Bread. — Make  as  directed  for  wheat 
and  indian  bread,  using  unbolted  wheat  flour 
instead  of  superfine. 

To  Knead  Bread. — After  the  dough  is  made, 
flour  the  hands,  and  folding  the  fingers  over  the 
thumb,  making  what  is  called  a  fist,  belabor  the 
dough  first  with  one  hand  then  the  other  on  every 
side,  work  it  in  this  way  until  it  ceases  to  stick  to 
your  hands  ;  much  kneading  makes  bread  both 
whiter  and  finer. 

Kneading  bread  will  be  found  a  most  beneficial 
exercise  for  dyspeptics,  though  not  a  very  gentle 
one  ;  the  arms  and  chest  are  brought  into  full  play, 
quite  as  much  as  in  the  use  of  dumb  bells  ;  it  is 
heartily  recommended  since  good  bread  and  good 
health  are  both  obtained  thereby. 

Bread  can  scarce  be  kneaded  too  much,  it  will 
18  L* 


274        PONE   OR  CORN'MEAL  BREAKFAST  CAKE. 

read]*]}   be  allowed,  that  the  more  bread  is  needed 
the  sweeter  it  will  be  to  the  taste  when  eaten. 

Bread  Cake  or  Biscuits. — Take  from  risen 
bread  dough,  the  size  of  a  small  loaf,  work  into  it 
one  egg  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  lard  when  it 
is  thoroughly  amalgamated,  flour  the  hands  and 
make  it  in  balls,  the  size  and  shape  of  a  hen's  egg; 
rub  a  tin  pan  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in 
butter,  lay  them  in  so  as  to  touch  each  other,  until 
the  pan  is  full,  wet  the  tops  over  with  milk,  then 
set  them  into  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  serve 
hot  for  breakfast  or  tea.  When  eaten,  break  them 
open — to  cut  them  would  make  them  heavy. 

These  cakes  are  very  nice  when  cold  for  breakfast 
or  tea. 

Indian  Corn  Bread. — Into  a  quart  of  yellow 
corn-meal  stir  as  much  boiling  milk  or  water  as  will 
make  a  very  stiff'  batter ;  add  a  teacup  of  molasses 
and  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt;  put  to  it  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and 
when  rather  more  than  bloodwarm  add  to  it  half  a 
gill  of  baker's  yeast,  mix  it  well,  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  for  two  hours,  then  put  it  an  inch  deep 
in  buttered  basins,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven;  serve  hot,  with  cold  butter. 

Indian  Meal  Bread  for  Tea. — Stir  a  quart  of 
boiling  milk  into  a  pint  of  yellow  corn-meal,  add  to  it 
a  teacup  of  molasses  and  three  or  four  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  then  pour  it  into  a  but- 
tered basin  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours. 
Or,  add  to  this  mixture  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
butter  —  butter  saucers,  half  fill  them,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  (juick  oven. 

Pone  OR  Corn-meal  Bueaivfast  Cake.— 'Intoa 


INDIAN    MEAL    GRIDDLE    CAKES.  275 

quart  of  milk  stir  enough  yellow  corn-meal  to  make 
a  very  thick  batter,  add  to  it  four  well  beaten  eggs 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  butter  small  basins  or 
tin  pans,  fill  them  one  inch  deep,  and  bake  for 
nearly  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven;  do  not  open  the 
oven  in  less  than  forty  minutes. 

Albany  Breakfast  Cakes. — Beat  six  eggs 
light  and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  bit  of  saleratus 
the  size  of  two  peas,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water  ; 
stir  in  enough  sweet  corn-meal  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter, rub  some  small  tin  saucers  the  size  of  a  tea- 
saucer  with  butter  and  half  fill  them  ;  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven,  or  put  the  mixture  an  inch 
deep  in  square  tin  pans  ;  when  done  cut  it  in  squares 
and  serve  hot. 

Indian  Meal  Breakfast  Cakes. — Pour  boiling 
water  into  a  pint  of  yellow  corn-meal,  stirring  it  all 
the  time,  until  it  is  wet ;  dissolve  half  a  small  tea- 
spoonful of  saleratus  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  add 
it  to  the  meal  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  well 
beaten  eggs  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large 
eggy  stir  it  well  together  ;  butter  square  tin  pans, 
two-thirds  fill  them  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
half  an  hour  ;  cut  it  in  squares  and  serve  hot. 

Indian  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. — Put  three 
pints  of  warm,  water  into  a  basin  or  jar,  add  to  it 
half  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  half  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful of  saleratus  dissolved,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
stir  in  yellow  corn-meal  to  make  a  batter,  add  a 
pint  bowl  of  wheat  flour,  and  beat  the  whole 
smooth,  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise; 
tlie  batter  should  not  more  than  half  fill  the  vessel, 
Uiat  it  may  not  rise  over  the  sides  :   in  the  morn- 


276  joHXxy  cake. 

ing  add  two  well  beaten  eggs  ;  make  a  griddle  hot, 
put  on  it  a  teaspoon ful  of  lard,  spread  it  over  it, 
and  put  the  batter  on  in  small  cakes  ;  when  one  side 
is  a  delicate  brown,  turn  the  other,  when  both  sides 
are  done,  take  them  up  on  a  hot  dish  ;  these  cakes 
retain  the  heat  for  some  time  ;  serve  butter  and 
syrup  with  these,  for  breakfast. 

Wheat  and  Indian  Crumpets. — Put  half  a 
gill  of  5^east  into  a  quart  of  warm  milk,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  stir  in  wheat  flour  to  make  a  good 
batter;  set  it  in  a  w^arm  place  to  rise,  in  the  morn- 
ing, add  a  teacupful  of  melted  butter,  and  a  hand- 
ful of  yellow  corn  meal  ;  bake  them  on  a  hot  grid- 
dle, which  must  be  rubbed  over  with  lard  each 
time  before  putting  on  the  cakes;  a  spoonful  of 
batter  for  each  cake. 

Indian  Griddle  Cakes. — Beat  two  eggs  light, 
stir  them  into  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  corn-meal  to  make 
a  good  batter,  bake  as  soon  as  mixed,  on  a  hot  grid- 
dle, rubbed  over  with  a  bit  of  suet  or  fat  pork,  a 
tablespoonful  of  batter  for  each  cake. 

Johnny  Cake. — Put  a  quart  of  fresh  corn-meal 
^J«to  a  basin,  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stir 
into  it  boil  ing  .water,  until  it  is  all  moistened,  then 
with  your  hands,  make  it  in  cakes  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  bake  them  on  a  hot  griddle,  rubbed  over 
with  a  bit  of  fat  pork,  or  beef  suet ;  let  them  do 
slowly;  when  one  side  is  done,  turn  the  other; 
they  may  be  baked  in  an  oven  for  twenty  minutes ; 
or  put  the  cake  on  a  flat  board  or  iron  plate,  and 
slant  it  in  front  of  the  Are;  when  one  side  is  done, 
turn  the  other/;  serve  hot,  split  them  open,  and  but- 
ter freely ;  they  are  eaten  with  fried  pork. 


YEAST    CAKES.  277 

Indian^ Meal  Muffins. — Poui  boiling  water 
into  a  quart  of  yellow  corn  meal,  stirring  it  all  the 
time,  until  it  is  a  thick  batter,  let  it  cool;  when  only 
warm,  add  a  small  teacup  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast,  with  two  well 
beaten  eggs  ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours, 
then  slir  it  smooth,  and  bake  in  small  cakes,  on  a 
hot  griddle;  when  one  side  is  a  rich  brown,  turn 
the  other,  lay  them  singly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 
These  may  be  made  without  the  yeast,  and  baked 
as  soon  as  mixed. 

Oat  Meal. — May  be  prepared  for  cooking,  in 
the  sam-e  manner  as  corn  meal ;  either  as  soupon, 
gruel,  or  Johnny  cake. 

Rye  Short  Cakes. — Make  as  directed  in  the 
several  receipts  for  wheat  flour. 

To  Make  Baker's  Yeast. — Make  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  wheat  flour  into  a  smooth  batter,  with 
a  little  cold  water,  then  add  to  it  nearly  two  quarts 
more  of  water,  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  put  it  to  boil,  stir  it  occasionally,  then  set  it 
to  cool ;  \\iJ:ien  it  is  only  blood  warm,  add  a  gill  of 
good  yeast,  set  the  vessel  in  a  warm  place,  or  near 
the  fire  for  one  day,  to  ferment,  then  pour  off  the 
thin  hquor  .from  the  top,  shake  the  remainder  up, 
and  put  it  in  a  bottle  for  use,  or  keep  it  in  a  cover- 
ed stone  jar ;  half  a  gill  of  this  yeast  for  seven 
pounds  of  flour. 

Yeast    Cakes,  called    Turnpike    Cakes. — 

Put  a  quart  of  hops  into  two  quarts  of  water,  cover 
them,  and  let  them  boil,  then  strain  it  hot  over  a 
quart  of  fresh  corn  meal,  stir  it  well  together,  when 
cooled,  so  as  to  bear  your  hand  in,  add  a  teacupfiil 


278  baker's  rolls. 

of  good  yeast,  or  one  turnpike  cake  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  stir  it  well,  make  it  in  cakes  the  size  of 
the  top  of  a  tumbler,  and  rather  less  than  half  an  inch 
thick,  lay  them  on  a  board,  and  set  them  in  a  dry, 
warm,  but  airy  place,  to  rise  and  harden,  do  not 
put  them  in  the  sun  ;  when  one  side  is  dry,  turn 
the  other,  and  so  turn  them  from  side  to  side,  until 
ihey  are  thoroughly  dry  and  hard  ;  should  the 
weather  prove  damp,  these  cakes  may  be  dried 
near  the  fire.  Keep  them  in  coarse  paper  bags,  in 
a  dry,  cool  place  ;  half  of  one  of  these, cakes  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  warm  water,  is  enough  for  seven 
pounds  of  flour.  These  will  remain  good  for 
months. 

Leavex. — Take  the  scrapings  of  the  tray,  and 
a  little  of  the  risen  dough,  to  make  a  cake  as  large 
round  as  a  tumbler;  dry  it,  or  put  it  in  cold  water 
to  cover  it.  When  wanted,  pour  oflT  the  cold  wa- 
ter, and  put  a  pint  of  warm  wat^r  to  it.  Use  it 
instead  of  yeast.  If  the  leaven  is  dried,  dissolve  it 
in  warm  water.  Keep  the  leaven  from  each  time 
baking,  which  should  not  be  less  often  than  twice 
each  week. 

Dyspepsia  Crackers. — Mix  a  hard  dough  of 
unbolted  wheat  flour,  a  small  quantity  of  salt,  and 
a  very  httle  saleratus ;  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling- 
pin;  make  it  in  small  round  cakes,  stick  each  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crisp 
and  hard. 

To  INFake  Baker's  Rolls. — Put  three  pounds 
of  wheat  flour  into  a  large  bowl,  make  a  hollow  in 
the  centre,  put  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  yeast,  a 
leaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of 
half  a  small  nutmeg,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of 


TO  MAKE   BUCKWHEAT  OAKES.  279 

hot  water,  make  it  into  a  soft  dough  with  warm 
milk,  work  it  or  knead  until  it  is  smooth  and  shin- 
ing, then  cover  it  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two 
hours,  then  work  it  smooth  again,  let  it  rise  again, 
then  work  it  down  and  divide  it  in  pieces  twice  the 
'  size  of  a  hen's  egg  ;  roll  it  between  your  hands  to  the 
length  of  a  finger,  lay  them  so  as  to  touch  each 
other,  on  baking  tins,  dip  your  hand  in  milk  and 
pass  it  lightly  over  the  tops  of  the  rolls,  and  set  them 
in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  until 
they  are  baked  and  the  tops  a  delicate  brown, 
break  one  open  to  know  if  they  are  done.  Serve 
hot  for  breakfast,  to  be  broken  open — cutting  light 
hot  cakes  soddens  them. 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes. — Put  three  pints 
ot  warm  water  into  a  stone  pot  or  jar,  add  half  a 
gill  of  baker's  yeast,  or  an  inch  square  of  turnpike 
cake  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water ;  add  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonfulof  salt,  and  half  a  small  teaspoonfulof 
saleratus,  have  a  pudding  stick  or  spatula  and 
gradually  stir  in  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a 
nice  batter,  beat  it  perfectly  smooth,  then  cover  it 
and  set  it  in  a  moderately  warm  place  until  morn- 
ing ,  a  large  handful  of  cornmeal  may  be  put  with 
the  flour,  and  is  by  many  persons  considered  an 
improvement. 

To  Bake  Buckwheat  Cakes. — Set  a  griddle 
over  a  gentle  steady  fire,  when  it  is  hot,  rub  it  over 
with  a  bit  of  suet,  or  fat  fresh  pork  on  a  fork  ;  the 
griddle  must'  be  hot  but  not  scorching  ^  put  the 
batter  on  in  small  cakes,  when  one  side  is  nicely 
browned  and  about  half  cooked  through,  turn  them. 

These  cakes  to  be  in  perfection,  must  be  not 
much  thicker  than  a  dollar  piece,  and  both  sides  a 
delicate  brown.     Should  the  batter  prove  too  thick 


2S0  MUFFINS. 

it  may  be  made  thinner  with  sweet  milk,  this  will 
also  make  them  bake  a  finer  color.  The  best  of 
sweet  butter  and  syrup  to  be  served  with  buck- 
wheat cakes  hot  from  the  griddle  ;  should  the 
cakes  be  preferred  thicker  than  mentioned  in  this 
receipt,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  make  them  so;  take 
care  that  they  are  baked  through. 

Buckwheat  may  be  mixed  the  same  as  wheat 
muffins,  and  baked  on  a  griddle. 

Minute  Pudding. — Put  a  quart  of  water  over 
the  fire,  when  it  boils  fast,  add  a  large  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  stir  it  round  with  a  puddiuG:  stick  in  one 
hand,  and  from  the  other  let  fall  gradually,  (stirring 
it  all  the  time)  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  it 
thick  ;  continue  to  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes,  when  it 
will  be  a  thick  and  smooth  pudding  ;  dip  a  large 
bowl  in  cold  water,  and  turn  the  pudding  into  it ; 
when  it  is  a  little  cooled  lay  a  plate  over  the  bowl, 
then  reverse  it,  and  turn  the  pudding  out  upon  it ; 
serve  with  butter  and  sugar  or  a  sauce,  for  dessert. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. — To  a  quart  of  thick 
sour  milk  or  buttermilk  put  a  pint  of  water,  stir  into 
it  enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  smooth  but  not 
very  thin  batter  ;' dissolve  a  large  teaspoonful  ot 
powdered  saleratus  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  stir  it 
in  with  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  the  batter 
must  be  perfectly  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 
Bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  which  must  first  be  rubbed 
over  with  a  bit  of  fat  or  lard. 

Muffins. — Mix  with  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter and  half  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a  large 
pea  (dissolved  in  hot  water)  stir  in  enough  sifted 


BUTTERMILK  TEA  CAKES.  ^  281 

wheat  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  set  it  In  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  for  three  hours  in  warm,  weather,  oi 
lonc^er  in  winter;  it  mav  be  mixed  at  nioht  for 
breakfast  next  morning — put  a  griddle  over  the  fire, 
when  it  is  hot,  rub  it  over  with  some  fat,  grease  the 
inside  of  the  rings,  set  them  on  and  half  fill  them 
with  the  batter,  or  they  maybe  done  without  rings; 
when  one  side  is  done  turn  the  other ;  bake  a  light 
color,  as  they  are  done  break  each  one  open,  put  a 
bit  of  butter  in  each,  and  set  them  in  front  of  the 
fire  until  served  ;  muffins  should  never  be  cut 
open.     Cold  muffins  may  be  toasted  and  served  hot. 

Crumpets. — Put  half  a  gill  of  yeast  into  a  quart 
of  warm  milk,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  when  light,  add  a  cup  of  melted 
butter,  stir  it  in,  and  bake  as  muffins. 

Cream  Tea  Cakes. — Put  two  pounds  of  sifted 
wheat  flour  into  a  basin,  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre, 
and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  sour  cream,  and  a  cup  of 
melted  butter,  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salera- 
ratus  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  put  it  in  with  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  make  it  a  nice  soft  dough  ;  if 
necessary  add  a  little  more  cream  or  water,  flour 
your  hands,  and  make  it  out  in  cakes  the  size  of  an 
^g^.'i  rub  a  tin  pan  over  with  a  bit  of  butter,  lay  the 
cakes  in  so  as  to  touch  each  other,  until  the  pan  is 
full ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. 

When  taken  from  the  pan,  they  should  be  broken 
open  at  one  side,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size  of  a 
large  hickory  nut,  put  in,  serve  hot ;  they  may  be 
served  without  the  butter  in  them,  with  cold  butter 
accompanying. 

Buttermilk  Tea  Cakes. — Put  two  pounds  of 


282  •  EGG    RUSK. 

Sifted  wheat  flour  into  a  basin,  make  a  hollow  in 
the  centre,  put  in  a  small  teacup  of  butter,  lard,  or 
beef  drippings,  adci  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  t-ea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water; 
mix  a  pint  of  thick  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  with 
half  a  pint  of  water,  and  with  as  much  of  it  as  may- 
be necessary,  make  the  flour,  etc.  into  a  soft  dough  ; 
dip  your  hands  in  flour,  and  divide  the  dough  into 
cakes  the  size  of  an  egg,  roll  each  one  between  your 
hands,  to  a  smooth  round  cake,  rub  a  bit  of  butter 
over  a  tin  pie  pan,  lay  the  cake  in,  flatten  it  a  little, 
and  so  continue  until  the  pan  is  full,  putting  in  the 
cakes  so  as  to  touch  each  other ;  set  the  pan  in  a 
quick  oven,  shut  it  close,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes, 
then  break  one  open,  if  it  is  not  done  through, 
return  them  to  the  oven  for  three  or  five  minutes 
longer. 

Tea  Rusk.—  To  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  put  half 
a  gill  of  baker's  3'east,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water,  put  to  it  enough  wheat  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  mix  it  well  and  smooth,  cover 
it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  to 
rise  ;  when  light,  add  half  a  teacup  of  sugar,  and 
*  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  work  them  well  into  the 
dough,  flour  your  hands  well,  and  make  it  in  small 
cakes,  (the  size  of  a  large  egg,  or  a  trifle  larger,) 
lay  them  close  together  in  a  buttered  pan,  dip  your 
hand  in  a  little  sweetened  mxilk,  and  pass  it  lightly 
over  the  tops  of  the  rusks,  set  them  in  a  quick  oven 
for  half  an  hour;  serve  hot. 

Egg  Rusk. — i\[elt  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint 
of  warm  milk,  beat  seven  eggs  untill  you  can  take 
them  up  by  the  spoonful,  and  with  these,  three 
ounces  of  su.nar,  a  gill  of  veast,  and  as  much  sifted 


LIGHT    ROLLS.  *  233 

wheat  flour  as  may  be  necessary,  make  a  soft 
dough,  shake  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  when  light,  (which  it  will  be  in 
about  two  hours,)  work  it  down,  cover  it,  and  set  it 
to  rise  again  for  one  hour,  then  work  it  down,  rub 
a  baking  tin  over  with  a  bit  of  suet,  make  the  rusk 
in  cakes,  the  size  and  shape  of  an  egg,  lay  them  on 
the  tin,  so  as  to  touch  each  other,  dip  a  brush  in  a 
little  sweetened  milk,  and  pass  it  lightly  over  the 
cakes,  let  them  set  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  them 
in  a  quick  oven,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  ;  tr}^  if 
they  are  done  by  breaking  one  open,  if  not,  return 
them  to  the  oven,  and  close  it  for  five  minutes  ;  they 
may  be  wet  over  a  second  time,  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore they  are  done ;  serve  hot  with  butter,  for  tea. 

Velvet  Cakes. — To  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  and 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  put  half  a  gill  of  yeast  and 
half  a  teacup  of  soft  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
stir  into  it  enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
strew  some  flour  over  it,  lay  a  warm  towel  over,  and 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  (three  hours  in  sum- 
mer, or  until  hght  in  winter,)  dip  your  hands  in  flour 
and  work  the  dough  down  ;  make  it  in  small  flat 
cakes,  lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan,  quite  near  each 
other,  dip  your  hand  in  milk,  and  pass  it  over  the 
top  of  each  cake,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twelve  or 
fifteen  minutes.  These  cakes  may  be  mixed  at 
night,  and  baked  in  rolls  for  breakfast. 

Light  Rolls. — Take  a  piece  of  risen  dough, 
the  size  of  a  small  loaf,  from  mixed  bread,  work 
into  it  a  teacup  of  shortening,  and  one  egg,  work  it 
well  together,  then  make  it  in  rolls  between  your 
hands,  about  one  inch  thick,  and  the  length  of  the 
finger,  lay  them  close  in  a  buttered  basin,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven;    do  not  open  the 


284  COMMON    BUNS. 

oven  until  that  time  has  expired,  then  wet  the  tops 
of  the  rolls  over  with  a  little  milk,  and  close  the 
oven  for  five  minutes  longer. 

French  Rolls,  for  Tea, — Work  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of  sifted  wheat 
flour,  until  it  is  like  grated  ^oread,  put  to  it  two 
beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoon sful  of  bakers  yeast, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  as  much  warm  milk 
as  will  make  a  soft  dough,  strew  flour  over,  cover 
it  with  a  warm  cloth,  and  set  itjn  a  warm  place  to 
rise,  for  two  hours;  then  dip  your  hands  in  flour, 
and  make  it  in  small  rolls,  an  inch  thick,  and  the 
length  of  a  finger,  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven  ;  five  minutes  before  they  are  done,  wet  them 
lightly  over  with  sweet  milk,  do  it  as  quickly  as 
possible,  and  close  the  oven  to  finish. 

Rice  Flour  Short  Cakes. — Rub  three  ounces 
of  butter  into  half  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  moisten  it 
with  cold  water,  work  it  smooth,  then  roll  it  out 
thin  ;  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  ten  or  twelve 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Short  Cakes  or  Paste  Cakes. — Make  a  short 
pie  crust,  roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch  thickness,  or 
thinner  if  preferred,  and  cut  it  in  small  round  cakes 
with  a  tumbler  or  tin  cutter  of  that  size  ;  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

These  cakes  may  be  made  the  same  as  "  corti- 
mon  puff"  paste"  for  pies;  serve  with  preserves, 
jelly,  or  stewed  fruit,  for  tea.  The  cakes  may  be 
hot  or  cold. 

Common  Buxs. — Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into 
two  pounds  of  flour,  with  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  carraway  seeds^and  the  same 


BUTTER   CRACKERS.  285 

of  vSalt ;  add  half  a  gill  of  yeast,  and  as  much 
warm  milk  as  will  make  a  soft  dough  ;  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  (it  will  be  light  after  about 
three  hours;)  strew  a  paste-slab  and  rolling-pin 
with  flour,  and  roll  out  the  dough  to  half  an  inch 
thickness,  and  cut  them  in  large  round  cakeg  ;  lay 
them  on  baking  tins.;  wet  the  tops  over  with  milk, 
strew  sugar  over  each,  and  put  them  on  tins  in  a 
quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Cross  Buns. — To  the  above  mixture  add  half 
a  nutmeg  grated,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
alspice,  and  a  cup  of  dried  currants,  washed  and 
dried ;  mix  it  well  together ;  finish  as  directed 
for  buns;  when  nearly  done,  press  the  form  of  a 
cross  in  the  centre  of  each. 

Soda  or  Milk  Biscuit. — To  a  pound  of  sifted 
flour  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful 
of  carbonate  of  soda  in  a  little  m.ilk ;  put  it  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  flour,  with  as  much  milk 
as  will  make  a  stiff*  paste  ;  work  it  well  together; 
beat  it  for  some  minutes  with  a  rolling-pin,  then 
roll  it  very  thin  ;  cut  it  in  round  or  square  biscuits, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  crisp. 

Butter  Crackers. — Rub  four  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  pound  of  flour,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
when  it  is  like  sand,  put  to  it  enough  cold  water 
to  damp  it  and  keep  it  together;  beat  it  with  a 
rolling-pin  until  it  is  smooth  ;  then  roll  it  thin  ;  cut 
it  in  small  cakes,  or  make  it  in  small  crackers  be- 
tween 3'our  hands ;  lay  them  on  baking  tins,  and 
set  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  set 
them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes ;  let 
each  cracker  be  about  the  size  of  a  dollar  piece, 
and  nearly  half  an  inch  thick. 


S86  TO  FRiT  DOUGHXL^TS,  ETC. 

Milk  Biscuits. — Warm  two  ounces  of  sweet 
butter  in  a  gill  of  sweet  milk,  and  with  it  wet  a 
pound  of  flour  into  a  very  stiff  paste;  beat  it  with 
a  rolling-pin,  and  work  it  very  smooth  ;  roll  it  a 
ojiarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  it  in  small  round 
cakes  ;  stick  each  with  a  fork,  and  bake  ten  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven. 

To  MAKE  Doughnuts. — Take  of  risen  wheat- 
bread  dough  the  size  of  a  quart  bowl ;  work  into  it 
a  teacup  of*  butter,  two  teacups  of  clean  brown 
sugar,  rolled  fine,  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  two  eggs;  work 
it  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  strew  some  flour  over  a  paste- 
table  and  rolling-pin  ;  put  on  some  of  the  paste, 
and  roll  it  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness;  rub 
more  flour  over  the  rolling-pin,  if  the  paste  sticks ; 
cut  it  in  small  squares,  stars,  or  diamonds  ;  fry  in 
hot  fat. 

To  FRY  Doughnuts  and  Crullers. — Have  a 
small  iron  or  porcelain  kettle  ;  put  into  it  a  pound 
of  lard,  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  when  it  is  boiling 
hot,  drop  a  bit  of  the  dough  in  to  tr}^  it ;  if  the  fat 
is  not  hot  enough,  the  cakes  will  absorb  it,  and 
thereby  be  rendered  unfit  for  eating;  if  too  hot, 
it  will  make  them  a  dark  brown  outside  before  the 
inside  is  cooked  :  boiling  hot  is  about  the  heat  the 
fat  should  be  ;  if  it  is  at  a  right  heat,  the  doughnuts 
will  in  about  ten  minutes  be  of  a  delicate  brown 
outside,  and  nicelv  cooked  inside  :  five  or  six 
minutes  wfJl  cook  a  cruller;  try  the  fat,  by  drop- 
ping a  bit  of  the  dough  in  ;  if  it  is  right,  the  fat  will 
boil  up  when  it  is  put  in  :  keep  the  kettle  in  mo- 
tion all  the  time  the  cakes  are  in,  that  they  may 
boil  evenly:  wdien  the  cakes  are  a  fine  color,  tak^ 
them  out  with  a  skimmer  on  to  an  inverted  sieve. 


FRIED    CAKES.  287 

Doughnuts. — Take  a  pound  oi'  floui*-,  a  quartei 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
clean  brown  sugar,  rolled  fine,  one  nutmeg,  grated, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  ;  mix  these 
well  together;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  bakers' 
yeast,  with  as  much  w^arm  milk,  wuth  saleratus  the 
size  of  a  pea  dissolved  in  it,  as  will  make  a  smooth 
dough  ;  knead  it  for  a  few  minutes,  cover  it,  and 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for  three  hours  or  more, 
until  it  is  light ;  then  roll  it  out  to  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thickness ;  cut  it  in  small  squares  or  diamonds, 
and  fry  as  directed. 

Doughnuts,  without  Yeast. — Half  a  pound  of 
butter,  a  pint  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make 
a  smooth  dough  ;  flavor  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated  ;  rub  a 
little  flour  over  a  paste-board  or  table,  roll  the 
dough  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness  ;  cut  them 
in  squares,  or  diamonds,  or  round  cakes,  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard  as  directed.  These  cakes  may  be 
made  in  rings,  and  fried. 

Fried  Cakes. — One  quart  of  milk,  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  pound  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  or  one 
pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  as  much  sifted  wheat 
flour  as  will  make  a  thick  batter  ;  beat  the  eggs 
until  they  can  be  taken  up  w^ithout  strings  ;  beat 
the  butter  with  the  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  grate  in 
half  a  nutmeg;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract, 
or  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  in  which  rose  leaves 
have  been  steeped,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  then 
stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  add  the  raisins 


2SS  DELICATE    CRULLERS. 

or  currants  ;  beat  it  for  a  few  minutes,  tlien  fry  in 
boiling  lard  as  directed  for  doughnuts  and  crullers. 
A  dessert-spoonful  of  the  batter  makes  a  cake. 

Plain  Crullers. — Take  half  a  pint  of  sour  milk 
or  buttermilk,  one  teacup  of  butter,  two  teacups  of 
sugar,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  nutmeg, 
graced,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon; 
work  in  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour  as  will  make  a 
smooth  dough;  work  it  well  together;  roll  the 
cakes  to  twice  the  thickness  of  a  dollar  piece ;  cut  it 
in  pieces  two  inches  square;  cut  it  in  fingers,  twist 
each  a  little,  and  join  the  ends  together,  and  fry 
as  before  directed.  These  cakes  may  be  cut  in 
rings,  stars,  baskets,  or  any  other  fancy  shapes. 

Richer  Crullers. — One  pound  of  butter,  beaten 
with  one  pound  of  finely  rolled  sugar,  and  six  well- 
beaten  eggs ;  work  them  into  two  pounds  of  flour, 
with  half  a  nutmeg,  grated;  when  it  is  a  smooth 
dough,  flour  a  paste  board  or  table  and  rolling-pin, 
and  roll  it  to  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thickness  ;  cut  it 
in  rings  or  crullers,  and  fry  as  directed  ;  when  done, 
grate  sugar  over. 

Richest  Crullers. — Beat  one  pound  of  butter 
to  a-cream,  with  one  pound  of  finely  rolled  sugar; 
add  fdur  well-beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated  ;  work  the  whole  into  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  s/fted  flour;  flour  the  cake  board  or  table,  and 
roll  it  to  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thickness ;  cut  it  as 
fancy  may  dictate,  and  fry  as  directed. 

Delicate  Crullers. — Take  four  eggs,  four 
tablespoonsful  of  lard,  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar, 


TO    MAKE    WIGS.  289 

a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  may  be  added  ;  work 
into  these  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will  make  a  nice 
dough,  roll  it  to  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thickness, 
and  fry  as  directed  for  doughnuts  and  crullers. 

To  make  little  baskets,  cut  the  paste  in  strips  an 
inch  and  a  half  wide,  and  three  inches  long,  and 
with  a  gigling  iron,  cut  slits  across  it  from  one  side 
to  the  other,  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  either 
edge,  and  quarter  of  an  inch  apart;  then  join  the 
two  ends  together  in  a  circle,  forming  the  basket ; 
press  it  down  slightly,  that  the  strips  may  bulge, 
and  so  form  die  basket,  like  those  made  for  fly 
traps  of  paper  ;  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  from  the 
fat,  (five  minutes  will  do  them,)  grate  white  sugar 
over. 

Prepared  Flour. — ^To  one  quart  of  wheat  flour, 
put  two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  one  of  soda,  work  it  through  a  seive,  and  make 
use  of  it  instead  of  unprepared  flour  in  any  of  the 
receipts. 

To  Make  Wigs. — Take  three  pounds  and  a 
half  of  flour,  rub  into  it  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  until  it  is  like  grated  bread,  put  to  it  a 
pound  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  ginger;  beat  three  eggs  very 
light,  take  a  gill  of  baker's  yeast,  and  a  wine-glass 
of  brandy,  make  a  hollow  in  the  flour,  and  put  in 
the  eggs  and  yeast,  with  as  much  warm  milk  as 
will  make  a  nice  dough  ;  work  it  smooth,  cover  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  then  di- 
vide it  into  eighteen  or  tw^enty  '^akes,  put  them  in  a 
buttered  pan,  at  a  little  distance  from  each  other, 
l3rush  the  top  of  each  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 

beaten  v/ith  a  Httle  milk,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in 
19  M 


290  YEAST    WAFFLES. 

a  quick  oven ;  serve  hot,  to   be   broken  open  and 
buttered. 

CurraxtBuxs. — Into  three  pounils  and  a  half  of 
sifted  wheat  fiour,  work  two  pounds  of  soft  lard,  add 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
ground  alspice  ;  add  to  it  half  a  gill  of  baker's 
yeast,  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  three 
hours,  then  -stir  into  it  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
picked,  washed,  and  dried;  make  it  in  cakes  (with 
a  spoon,)  an  inch  thick,  and  the  size  of  the  top  of  a 
tumbler ;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Waffles. — Three  teacups  of  sugar  rolled  fine, 
one  cup  of  butter,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  teacup  of 
milk,  stir  in  sifted  wheat  flour,  until  it  is  a  thick 
batter,  add  to  it  lialf  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon  extract,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  stir  it  for  some  time. 

Make  the  waffle  irons  hot,  dip  a  sponge  in  melted 
butter,  and  rub  it  over  every  part,  put  a  large  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  the  mixture  in  for  each  cake,  close  the 
iron,  and  set  it  over  hot  coals  or  a  stove ;  let  them 
remain  for  six  or  eight  minutes,  then  turn  the  iron 
over;  after  six  or  eight  minutes  open  it,  if  the  cake 
is  a  nice  color,  and  loosens,  take  it  out;  and  so  con- 
tmue  until  you  have  enough. 

Waffles, — May  be  made  of  soft  jumble  mix- 
ture, or  of  pound  cake  ;  any  cake  may  be  baked  in 
waffle  irons.  Waffles  may  be  made  for  dessert 
of  a  batter,  as  directed  for  wheat  fritters,  pan-cakes, 
and  served  with  wine  sauce  over. 

Yeast  Wafflef. — Beat  three  eggs  light,  put  to 


WAFERS    AND    JELLY.  291 

them  one  pint  of  warm  milk,  a  large  tablespoonfiil 
of  yeastj  onevtabicspoonful  of  butter,  and  Haifa  nut- 
meg, and  flour  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir  with  a  spoon, 
or  enough  to  make  a  light  batter,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for 
two  or  three  hours,  then  bake  them  in  muffin  rings 
or  a  waffle  iron ;  put  butter  and  sugar  over,  and 
serve  hot. 

Wafers. — Two  tablespoonsful  of  white  sugar, 
two  ditto  of  butter,  one  teacup  of  flour,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract,  or  a  tablespoon ful  of 
brandy,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  work  them  well 
together,  cut  it  in  bits  the  size  of  your  thumb,  ma.ke 
a  wafer  iron  hot,  rub  it  inside  with  a  bit  of  butter, 
put  in  a  bit  of  the  dough,  press  the  irons  together 
upon  it,  and  bake  it  a  delicate  brown,  then  take  it 
out,  slip  another  bit  in,  and  so  continue  until  all  are 
done  ;  or  roll  the  paste  as  thin  as  a  dollar  piece, 
cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  it  four  or  five 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Wafers. — Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  carroway  seeds,  if  liked;  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  work  the  whole  into  a  smooth 
paste  or  dough,  cut  it  in  bits  half  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  bake  it  in  a  wafer  iron,  or  roll  it  out  as 
thin  as  a  dollar  piece,  cut  it  in  round  cakes  the  size 
of  the  top  of  a  tumbler,  an'd  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  a  few  minutes. 

Wafers  and  Jelly. — Make  a  batter  as  direct- 
ed for  soft  jumbles  or  Dover  cake,  rub  a  square  tin 
pan  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in  soft  butter, 
put  in  the  mixture,  not  much  thicker  than  a  dollar 


292  SMALL    CAKES. 

piece,  put  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  it  is  nicely  baked,  then  turn  it 
carefully  out,  spread  it  with  jelly  ;  when  it  is  cold, 
bake  another,  lay  it  carefully  up»>n  the  first  one, 
when  cold;  spread  it  with  jelly,  and  having  baked 
a  third,  lay  it  carefully  upon  it;  serve  cut  in 
squares,  or  cut  it  round,  and  serv^e  cut  in  wedge 
shaped  pieces.  Or  having  baked  one  of  these 
cakes,  spread  half  of  it  with  jelly,  lay  the  other  half 
upon  it;  when  cold,  cut  it  in  pieces  three  inches 
long,  and  one  broad ;  serve  for  tea  or  for  evening 
parties. 

Common  Jumbles. — One  teacup  of  butter,  two 
teacups  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk, one  small  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved 
in  a  little  water,  one  beaten  egg,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  use  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  it  so  as  to 
mould  in  well  floured  hands,  roll  it  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  it  in  round  cakes,  make  an  opening 
in  the  centre  w^ith  the  finger,  grate  sugar  over,  lay 
them  in  pans  or  baking  tins,  and  set  them  in  a  quick 
oven  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes. 

Jumbles. — Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  six  well 
beaten  eggs,  add  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract,  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon ;  work  it  well  together,  tlien  roll 
it  out  to  eighth  of  an  inch  thickness,  grate  loaf 
sugar  over,  cut  it  in  rewind  cakes,  make  an  aperture 
in  the  centre  of  each,  lay  them  on  tin  plates,  and 
bake  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Small  Cakes. — Three  eggs^  three  tablespoons- 
ful  of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar,  three  teacups  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  and  half  a 


BISCUIT    CAKES.  29S 

nutmeg  grated,  w.ork  these  well  together,  roll  it 
:hin,  cut  it  in  small  cakes  or  jumbles,  and  bake  in  a 
juick  oven. 

Taylor  Cakes. — Beat  one  pound  of  butter  to  a 
3ream,  put  it  to  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  one 
30und  of  fine  sugar,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
idd  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  car- 
•oway  seeds,  work  it  well  together,  roll  it  thin,  cut 
t  in  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten 
)r  twelve  minutes. 

Almond  Jumbles. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter 

0  a  cream,  with  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  mix  i* 
yith  a  pound  of  flour,  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
dmonds  blanched,  and  shred  small,  or  beaten  to  a 
)aste  with  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  work  it  well  to- 
gether, then  roll  it  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  in 
imall  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten 
)r  twelve  minutes. 

Cinnamon  Wafers. — Pound  and  sift  six  ounces 
)f  sugar,  and  put  it  with  an  equal  weight  of  fresh 
Dutter,  beaten  to  a  cream,  with  an  equal  weight  of 
lifted  flour  ;  add  half  an  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon, 
ind  a  small  egg,  stir  these  well  together  in  an 
earthen  basin,  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  thin 
matter;  make  a  griddle  quite  hot,  rub  it  over  with  a 
)it  of  sponge  dipped  in  soft  butter,  then  lay  on  it 

1  spoonful  of  the  batter  ;  when  one  side  is  dor.e  turn 
:he  other,  when  both  sides  are  a  fine  brown,  roll  it 
[still  on  the  griddle)  around  a  small  stick,  and  so 
:ontinue  until  all  the  paste  is  used. 

Sponge  Cakes. — One  pound  of  sifted  flour,  five 
3ggs  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract 


294  RICH    SPICE    CAKE. 

or  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  roll  it  to 
quarter  of  an  inch  thickness,  cut  it  in  cakes  the  size 
of  the  top  of  a  tumbler,  and  bake  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

White  Cakes. — Take  half  a  pound  of  sifted 
flour,  rub  into  it  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  add  one  egg,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  carroway  seeds,  and  as  much  milk  as 
will  make  it  a  paste  ;  roll  it  out  to  quarter  of  an 
inch  thickness,  or  thinner,  cut  it  in  small  round 
cakes,  and  bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  quick  oven,  ten 
or  twelve  minutes. 

One  two-three-four  Cake. — One  cup  of  but- 
ter, two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  and  four 
eggs.  Work  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  put  it 
to  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  mix  in  the  flour; 
add  grated  nutmeg  ;  flour  the  cake  board  or  table, 
and  roll  the  cake  to  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick  ;  stick  each  with  a  fork,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Spice  Cakes. — Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  spices, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  tablespoon sful  of 
yeast;  mix  it  to  a"  nice  dough  with  warm  milk, 
cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  three  hours ; 
then  roll  it  thin  ;  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake 
ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  These 
may  be  fried  as  doughnuts. 

Rich  Spice  Cakes. — Take  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  half  a  teacup  of 
mixed  spices ;   work  tlie  butter,    flour,   and  sugar 


SOFT    GINGERBREAD.  295 

together  with  the  spices,  until  thoroughly  incorpo- 
rated;  roll  it  thin,  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Portugal  Cakes. — One  pound  of  butter  worked 
into  one  pound  of  flour  and  one  poimd  of  sugar; 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  well-washed  and  dried 
currants,  three  well-beaten  eo:gs,  and  a  gill  of 
brandy  ;  mix  them  well  together,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Spanish  Cakes. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  w^ell  beaten,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated  ;  work  it  well  together,  roll  it  in  thin  sheets, 
and  cut  in  fancy  cakes  with  tin  cutters,  such  as 
stars,  leaves,  hearts,  &c. ;  bake  fifteeti  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Wine  Cakes. — Mix  eight  ounces  of  flour  with 
half  a  pound  of  finely-powdered  sugar,  beat  four 
ounces  of  butter  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine; 
then  make  the  flour  and  sugar  into  a  paste  wnth  it, 
and  four  eggs,  beaten  light;  add  carroway  seeds, 
and  roll  the  paste  as  thin  as  paper;  cut  the  cakes 
with  the  top  of  a  tumbler,  brush  the  tops  over 
with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  grate  sugar  over, 
and  bake  ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  a  quick  oven; 
take  them  from  the  tins  w^hen  cold. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  (Molasses.) — Take  half  a 
pint  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  half  a  pint  of  mo- 
lasses, one  teacup  of  butter,  or  salted  lard,  or  beef 
fat,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a 
QUtmeg^  grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon 


296  PEARLASH    CAKE. 

and  a  large  spoonful  of  ground  ginger;  mix  in 
sifted  wheat  flour,  until  it  is  a  thick  batter  which 
you  can  stir  easily  with  a  spoon  ;  beat  it  well  to- 
gether for  some  time,  then  pour  it  an  inch  deep  in 
square  tin  pans,  buttered  ;  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
quic  oven  :  to  ascertain  whether  it  is  done,  try 
as  directed  in  introductory  remarks. 

Ginger  Sxaps. — Haifa  pint  of  molasses,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  carroway  seeds  and 
ground  ginger,  each  a  tablespoon ful,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter ;  work  the  butter  into  a  pound 
of  flour  ;  work  it  altogether,  and  form  it  in  cakes 
not  larger  than  a  dollar  piece,  on  baking  tins;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes,  when  they 
will  be  dry  and  crisp. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  without  E^^s, — Make  as 
directed  for  soft  gingerbread,  omitting  the  eggs, 
and  using  two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus  instead  of 
one  ;    dissolve  it  in  a  teacupful  of  warm  water.  ^ 

Pearlash  Cake. — Take  half  a  pint  of  molasses, 
half  a  pint  of  water,  half  a  teacup  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  and  an  even  full  tablespoon  of 
powdered  pearlash;  dissolve  it  iu  the  water;  put 
these  ingredients  together,  then  stir  in  as  much 
sifted  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  batter,  beat  it  well 
for  some  time  together;  with  a  sponge  dipped  in 
soft  butter,  rub  the. inside  of  square  tin  pans,  put  in 
the  cake  mixture  nearly  an  inch  deep,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven ;  when  the  cake 
loosens  from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  it  is  done  ;  it 
may  be  broken  and  eaten  hot.  This  is  a  healthful 
cake  for  children,  and  extremely  palatable  to  all. 


WIGS.  |?97 

Molasses  Cup  Cakes. — ^Two  cnps  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonfiil 
of  powdered  saleratns  dissolved  in  a  little  lioi  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs  ;  stir  in,  by  de- 
grees, enough  flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  you  can 
stir  easily  w^ith  a  spoon,  beat  it  well  until  it  is  very 
light,  rub  a  two-quart  tin  basin  over  with  a  bit  of 
butler,  line  it  with  white  paper,  and  put  the  cake 
in  it;  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven;  try  if 
it  is  done,  by  running  a  broom  splint  in  at  the 
thickest  part ;  if  it  comes  out  clean,  it  is  done. 
This  is  a  delicious  cake. 

Honey  Cake. — Three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
flour,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  honey,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  half  apound  of  butter,  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water ;  work  it  to  a  smooth  dough,  roll  it  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Ginger  Nuts. — Into  three  pounds  and  a  half 
of  wheat  flour  work  half  a  pound  of  butter;  add 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
molasses,  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  ground  ginger  ;  put  to  it  a  large  teaspoonful  of 
sateratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water;  make  it 
a  nice  dough,  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  in  small  cakes; 
put  them  on  baking  tins,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Wigs. — Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  and  three  quarters  of 
flour,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  six  eggs;  make  the 
milk  warm,   and   melt  the  butter  in  it,    beat  thena 


29S  COMMON  CUP  CAKE. 

very  light,  then  stir  them  into  the  rr)i!k,  with  half 
a  gill  of  yenst;  put  the  sugar  and  flour  together, 
and  gradually  stir  the  milk,  &c.  into  it;  cover  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  plice  for  ihree  hours;  when 
light,  rub  some  square  tin  pans  over  with  a  bit  of 
butter,  put  in  the  mixture  neaily  an  inch  deep,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  done, 
turn  them  out,  break  or  cut  it  open,  put  butter  be 
tween,  and  serve  hot  for  tea.  This  lea  cake  may 
be  cut  in  small  squares  and  served  hot,  to  be  but- 
tered at  table.  This  mixture  may  be  put  half  as 
thick  in  the  pans,  and  baked  fifteen  minutes;  when 
cold,  cut  it  in  squares;  it  is  very  delicate  and  light 
for  hmch.  Saleratus,  half  the  size  of  a  small  nut- 
meg, may  be  dissolved,  and  added  to  the  mixture- 

Cream  Cup  Cake. — Four  cups  of  flour,  two 
cuns  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  five  well- 
beaten  eg2:s,  and  one  small  teaspoonful  of  saleratus 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water  ;  beat  these  together 
for  a  long  time;  add  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extractor  orange-flower  water; 
bake^in  a  quick  oven,  in  buttered  tins  lined  with 
paper;  if  baked  in  square  tins,  put  the  mixture  in 
an  inch  deep,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes;  in 
round  pans,  put  it  an  inch  and  half,  and  bake 
forty  minutes. 

CoMMox  Cup  Cake. — One  tea  cup  of  butter, 
two  of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
extract,  or  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  and  half  a  nut- 
meg, grated  ;  beat  up  the  mixture  well,  butter  two 
two-(]uart  basins,  line  them  with  white  paper,  and 
divide  the  mixture  between  them  ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


COCOAXUT  CUP  CAKE.  899 

Soft  Jumbles. — Two  teacups  of  sugar,  rolled 
fine,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  with  half  a  teas[)oonral 
of  saleratus  dissolved  in  it,  one  cup  of  butter,  beat 
to  cream,  and  four  well-beaten  ecrcr^;  use  sifted 
flour  enough  to  make  it  rather  thicker  than  pound 
cake  ;  beat  it  well  after  all  the  ingredients  are  in, 
rub  some  square  tin  pans  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge 
dipped  in  soft  butter,  put  in  the  m/i.xture  rather 
more  than  an  inch  deep,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  when  served,  cut 
it  in  small  squares.  This  mixture  makes  fine 
waffles;  an  ounce  of  shelled  ahnonds  blanched  and 
stirred  tine  or  pounded  to  a  paste  may  be  added  to 
this  cake  mixture. 

Teacup  Cake  without  Eggs. — One  cnp  of  but- 
ter, two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream  or 
buttei'inilk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  rolled  very  fine,  a  gill  of 
brandy,  half  a  nutmeg  grated  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon  or  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon 
grated  ;  stir  in  enough  sifted  wheat  flour  to  make  it 
as  thick  as  pound-cake  ;  beat  well ;  put  in  an  inch 
deep  in  buttered  basins ;  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Soda  Cake — Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  in  a  pint  of  milk  ; 
put  to  it  half  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream 
and  half  a  nutmeir  Sfrated  ;  add  Q:raduallv  enouo-h 
Hour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  beat  it  well,  put  it  in 
shallow  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  half  an 
inch  deep,  bake  twenty  minutes,  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Cut  it  in  small  squares  to  serve. 

CocoANUT  Cup  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
tups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 


300  ALMOND    CAKE. 

essence  of  lemon,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  four  well 
beaten  eggs  and  the  white  merit  of  a  cocoauut 
grated ;  use  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour  as  will 
make  a  rather  stiff  batter;  beat  it  well,  butter 
square  tin  pans, line  them  with  white  paper,  and  put 
in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
half  an  hour,  or  it  may  require  ten  minutes  longer. 
When  cold,  cut  in  small  squares  or  diamonds; 
this  is  a  rich  cake  and  is  much  improved  by  a  thai 
icing.     This  cake  should  be  made  with  fine  w^hite 


CoMPosiTTox  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  half 
a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  four  egirs  well 
beaten,  one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saler- 
alus,  or  volatile  salts  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  lemon  ;  use  as  much  silled  Hour  as  will  make  a 
stiff  batter. 

Beat  these  well  together  until  it  is  light  and 
creamy,  then  add  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  and 
cut  in  two,  or  one  pound  of  cumtnts,  picked, 
washed,  and  dried  ;  line  square  tin  pans  with  but- 
tered paper,  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep  and 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  try  it,  ten 
minutes  longer  may  possibly  be  required.  When 
served  cut  the  cake  in  squares  or  oblong  pieces  ; 
this  mixture  makes  two  cakes  eight  inches  wide 
and  twelve  long. 

To  ir,*e  this  cake,  take  it  from  the  pans;  when 
cold  take  off'the  paper,  turn  the  pan  upside  down 
and  set  the  cake  upon  it;  flnish  as  directed.  See 
*'  'J'o  ice  a  cake." 

This  cake  mixture  without  the  fruit  makes  fine 
waffles. 

Almond  Cake. — Make  a  batter  as  directed  for 


WHITE  LABY-CAKE.  301 

composition  cake,  blanch  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
shelled  ahnonds,  cut  them  in  slips  and  stir  them 
into  the  cake  instead  of  fruit ;  finish  as  directed  for 
that  cake. 

Yellow  Lady-Cake. — A  new  way  to  make  it. — 
Take  a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
beaten  smooth  and  thick,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a 
small  teaspoon ful  of  powdered  volatile  salts  or  sal- 
eratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  half  a  nut- 
meg grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  or 
orange-flower  water,  and  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour 
as  will  make  it  as  thick  as  pound-cake  batter  ;  beat 
it  until  it  is  hght  and  creamy,  then  having  taken  the 
skins  from,  and  beaten  to  a  paste  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  shelled  almonds,  stir  them  into  the  cake, 
beat  them  in  it,  line  buttered  tin  pans  with  white 
paper,  put^in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven,  or  forty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  This  is  a  delicious  cake,  never 
before  given  in  any  book,  being  the  result  of  an 
experiment  of  the  author  of  this  book. 

Lady-cake  is  usually  made  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  as  Savoy  cake  (two  yolks  for  one  whole  egg) 
with  the  addition  of  pounded  almonds.  Ice  it  as 
directed  for  composition  cake,  when  a  little  dry, 
mark  it  with  a  knife  blade  in  slices  the  width  of  a 
finger,  and  three  inches  long. 


k 


White  Lady-Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs  to  a  high  froth,  add  gradually  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  finely  ground,  beat  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk 
with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  powdered  volatile  salts 
or  saleratus  dissolved  in  it ;  put  the  eggs  to  butter 
and  fnilk,  add  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour  as  will 


302  WEBSTER  CAKES. 

make  it  as  thick  as  pound-cake  mixture,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  orange-flower  water  or  lemon  extract 
then  add  quarter  of  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds, 
blanched  and  beaten  to  a  paste  with  a  little  w^hite 
of  egg  ;  beat  the  whole  together  until  liirht  and 
white  ;  line  a  square  tin  pan  with  buttered  pnper, 
put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep,  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  When  clone  take  it  from  the 
pan,  when  cold  take  the  paper  off',  turn  it  upside 
down  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  ice  the  side 
which  was  down  ;  when  the  icing  is  nearly  hnrd 
mark  it  in  slices  the  width  of  a  linger,  and  two 
inches  and  a  halt'long. 

Citron  Heart  Cakes. — Beat  half  a  pound  of 
butter  to  a  cream,  take  six  egi^s,  beat  the  whites  to 
a  froth,  and  the  yolks  with  half  a  pound  of  su^ar, 
and  rather  more  than  half  a  pound  of  sifted  Hour, 
beat  these  well  toQ^ether,  add  a  wine-<J[lass  of 
brandy,  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in 
thin  slips,  bake  it  in  small  heart  shaped  tins,  or  a 
square  tin  pan,  rubbed  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge 
dipped  in  melted  butter,  put  the  mixture  in  half  an 
inch  deep,  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven  ;  these  are  very  fine  cakes. 

Shred  almonds  may  be  used  instead  of  citron. 

Websteti  Cakes. — Mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
sifted  tiour  with  a  pound  of  powder  sugar,  rub  into 
it  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  then  add  ten  well  beaten 
eggs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  rose  or  orange  flower 
water,  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  wine  or  brandy, 
with  half  a  pound  of  well  cleansed  and  dried  cur- 
rants ;  beat  the  mixture  until  it  is  light  and  creamy, 
bake  it  in  square  tin  pans,  lined  with  buttered  pa- 
per ;  put  tlie  mixture  in  half  an  inch  deep,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes;  when  served 


DOVER    CAKE.  303 

cut  it  in  squares  or  diamonds  ;  this  cake  may  be 
iced,  mark  it  as  it  is  to  be  cut,  before  the  icing  is 
dry. 

Palo-alto  Cakes. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter 
to  a  cream,  with  half  a  pound  of  fine  white  sr.rrar, 
pat  to  it  five  well  beaten  egi^s,  a  lablespnoufai  of 
rose  water,  the  sanje  of  brandy,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  beat  it  to- 
gether until  very  light;  line  square  tin  pans  with 
paper,  rubbed  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in 
melted  butter,  put  in  the  mixture  half  an  inch  deep, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  n^inutes,  or  twenty 
in  a  moderate  oven  ;  when  done,  take  it  from  the 
pans,  turn  tliem  upside  down,  and  set  the  cake 
upon  them  ;  when  the  cake  is  cold,  take  off*  the  pa- 
per, cut  it  in  small  fancy  shapes  ;  put  a  little  red 
jelly  in  the  centre  of  each  piece,  and  with  a  small 
syringe,  put  a  border  of  icing  around  it. 

Dover  Cake. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  with  a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  add  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one  wine-glass 
of  rose  water,  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg 
grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  hot  water,  beat  in  as  much  wheat  flour  as 
will  make  it  as  thick  as  pound-cake  mixture,  beat 
well  after  all  the  ingredients  are  in,  line  round  or 
square  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper,  put  the  mix- 
lure  in  an  inch  deep  in  square,  or  an  inch  and  a 
half  in  round  pans,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  half  an 
hour  for  square  pans,  forty-five  minutes  for  round 
basms. 

The  addition  of  currants,  raisins,  and  citron,  to 
this  cake,  makes  one  which  will  keep  for  months, 
and  improve. 


304  SMALL    POUND    CAKES. 

Washixgtox  Cake. — One  pound  and  thiee 
quaiters  of  flour,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  su2:ar, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  four  egsfs,  half 
a  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
dissolv'ed  in  a  little  hot  water. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  milk 
and  beaten  e(x^,^,  then  put  in  the  dissolved  salera- 
tus, and  gradually  stir  in  the  flour,  with  a  wine- 
glass of  brandy  or  wine,  and  a  small  nutmeg 
grated  ;  beat  them  well  together. 

Make  it  in  two  round  cakes,  or  bake  it  in  square 
tin  pans,  in  a  quick  oven,  allow  fifteen  minutes  if 
half  an  inch  deep,  thirty  minutes  if  an  inch  deep, 
and  forty-five  if  an  inch  and  a  half  deep. 

To  Bake  Cakes. — Allow  fifteen  minutes  for 
baking  a  cake  which  is  half  an  inch  thick  or  deep, 
and  according  as  it  may  be  thicker,  allow  fifteen 
minutes  for  each  half  inch,  in  a  quick  oven;  in  a 
moderate  or  gentle  oven,  five  minutes  more  for  each 
half  inch  mav  be  allowed  ;  in  a  slow  oven,  half  an 
hour  would  be  required  for  each  half  inch. 

Small  Pound  Cakes. — One  poand  and  a  half  of 
sifted  flour,  seven  eggi^  well  beaten,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  of  soda,  sifted 
in  with  the  flour,  one  pound  of  fine  white  sugar, 
one  pound  of  butter,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  lemon  or  orange  flower  water,  with  half  a  nutmeg 
grated. 

Beat  the  egGfs  light,  beat  the  butter  and  sugar 
t02:ether,  then  put  it  with  the  eggs,  and  gradually 
add  the  flour,  l;eat  all  together  for  a  fcw  minutes, 
p«]t  it  half  an  inch  deep  in  very  small  round  tins, 
rul)l)ed  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  bake  ten  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven,  or  bake  it  in  square  tins  fifteen 
minutes  ;   cut  it  small  to  serve. 


THANKSGIVING    TEA    CAKES.  305 

Pound  Cakes. — One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  fine  white  sugar, 
ten  eggs,  one  gill  of  brandy,  half  a  nutmeg  grated* 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract,  or 
orano:e  flower  water. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  the 
ego^s  to  a  high  froth,  then  put  all  together,  beat  it 
until  it  is  light  and  creamy,  put  it  in  basins  lined 
wiih  buttered  paper,  let  the  mixture  be  an  inch  and 
a  half  deep,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one 
hour,  then  try  it;  when  done,  turn  it  gently  out,  re- 
verse the  pan,  and  set  the  cake  on  the  bottom  until 
cold,  let  the  paper  remain  until  the  cake  is  to 
be  cut. 

Queen  Cake. — Beat  one  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  rose  water;  then 
add  one  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  ten  eggs,  beat- 
en very  light,  and  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sifted 
flour  ;  beat  the  cake  well  together  ;  then  add  half 
a  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  blanched,  and  beaten 
to  a  paste  ;  butter  tin  round  basins,  line  them  with 
white  paper  ;  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  and  a  half 
deep  ;  bake  one  hoar  in  a  quick  oven. 

Thanksgiving  Tea  Cake. — One  teacup  of  but- 
ter, one  of  white  sugar,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two 
teacups  heaping  full  of  sifted  wheat  flour ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  with  the  sugar;  then 
add  the  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  pound  the  salts  and 
alum  to  powder,  and  dissolve  them  separately; 
chen  put  them  to  the  sugar  and  eggs,  and  gradually 
stir  in  the  flour ;  beat  it  until  it  is  very  light — it  can- 
not be  beaten  too  much  ;  cut  some  citron  in  ihin 
slices,  cut  each  slice  quite  small ;  stir  them  into  the 


306  HICKORY-NUT,  OR   JACKSON    CAKE. 

cake;  line  a  tin  two  quart  basin  with  buttered  pa- 
per ;  put  the  mixture  in,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CocoANUT  Pouxd-Cake. — Oni5  pound  of  white 
fine  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  teacup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  s:deratus, 
or  a  bit  of  volatile  salts  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg, 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water  ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  four  well  beaten  egi^s. 

Beat  these  ingredients  well  together,  until  very 
light,  w^ith  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will  make  it  as 
thick  as  pound-cake  ;  then  lightly  stir  in  the  white 
meat  of  a  cocoanut,  grated  ;  line  square  tin  pans 
with  buttered  paper  ;  put  the  mixture  in  an  inch 
deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour  : 
when  done,  take  it  from  the  pan,  reverse  the  pan, 
and  set  the  cake  on  the  bottom  to  cool.  This  cake 
should  be  iced  or  frosted  :  mark  it  in  small  squares 
or  diamonds,  before  it  is  hard. 

Almond  Pound-Cake. — Make  a  cake  as  for  co- 
coanut pound-cake  ;  take  the  skins  from  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  shelled  almonds;  pound  them  small, 
but  not  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  lemon  juice,  or 
white  of  eas:  •  beat  them  with  the  cake,  instead  of 
cocoanut,  and  finish  in  the  same  manner. 

HiCKORY-NuT,  OR  Jackson  Cake. — Crack  some 
fine  hickory-nuts  ;  pick  the  meats  from  the  shells, 
until  you  have  half  a  pint  ;  make  a  cake  as  for  co- 
coanut pound-cake;  make  the  nut  meats  small,  and 
stir  them  in.  Raisins,  stoned,  and  cut  in  two;  or 
currants,  well  washed  and  dried,  njay  be  added, 
and  w^ill  be  an  improvement.  Put  the  mixture 
more  than  an  incn  deep  in  a  round  tin  basin,  lined 
with  buttered  paper  ;  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


SAVOY    BISCUIT.  307 

Sponge  Cake. — One  pound  of  sncr-ir,  finely 
ground  ;  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  ;  eiirht  eggs  ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  one  lablespoonful  of  rose 
brandy  ;  or  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extrnct. 

Beat  the  3'olks  of  the  eggs,  flour  nnd  sugar  toge- 
ther, until  it  is  smooth  and  light ;  bent  the  whiles 
of  the  eggs  U)  a  liigh  froth  ;  then  bent  nil  toge.thor, 
until  well  mixed ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  dry  into 
the  flonr. 

Butter  a  square  tin  pan,  line  it  with  paper,  and 
put  in  the  mixture  more  than  an  inch  deep;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. . 

^Small  Sponge  Cakes. — Beat  five  eggs  light, 
with  half  a  pound  of  sugnr,  and  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  flour;  flavor  with  grated  nutmeg,  and  lemon,  or 
orange  flower  wnter  ;  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  beat  it  until  it  rises  in  bubbles  ;  butter  small 
tins,  put  in  the  mixture  half  an  inch  deep,  and  bake 
twelve  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Harrison  Cake. — Beat  two  eggs  light ;  add  to 
them  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, half  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  powd^ed  saleratus,  a  sn)all  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  nuCmeg,  grated  ;  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  smooth  batter  ;  beat  it  until  it  rises  in  bubbles  ; 
put  it  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
cut  it  in  squares  to  serve. 

Diet  Bread. — One  pound  of  sifted  flour,  one 
pound  of  fine  sugar,  one  teaspoonfulofsa.lt,  and  nine 
eggs.     Make  and  finish  the  same  as  sponge  cake. 

Savoy  Biscuit. — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to 
a  froth,  and  the  yolks,  with  ratlier  more  than  half  a 


SOS  CAKE  TRIFLE, 

pound  of  finely  powdered  white  sugar ;  then  add 
half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract,  or  orange  flower  water ;  beat  all  well 
together;  butter  square  tin  pans;  line  them  with 
white  paper,  nearly  fill  them,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven, 

Lafayette  Cake. — Make  a  Savoy  biscuit,  bake 
it  in  a  round  tin  basin,  about  five  inches  in  diame- 
ter, with  straight  sides.  When  cold,  cut  it  in  sli- 
ces quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  spread  each  with 
jelly,  or  jam;  put  it  together  again  ;  put  three  or 
four  slices  for  each  cake;  ice  the  top  and  sides; 
and  while  it  is  soft,  mark  it  to  cut  in  wedge-shaped 
pieces  when  served. 

This  cake  may  be  served  without  icing;  it  may 
be  made  of  Pound  Cake,  or  Dover  Cake. 

Naples  Biscuit. — Beat  eight  eggs  light ;  add  to 
them  one  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  one  pound 
of  sifted  wheat  flour  ;  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  essence  of  lemon,  or  orange  flower  water  ; 
beat  it  until  it  rises  in  bubbles ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Biscuit  and  Jelly  Sandwich. — Bake  a  Naples 
biscuit  in  a  basin  with  straight  sides;  ^en  cut  it 
in  slices,  and  finish  as  directed  for  Lafa^lfe  cake. 

Cake  Trifle. — Bake  a  Savoy  cake,  or  Naples 
biscuit  ;  cut  out  the  inside  about  one  inch  from  the 
edge  and  bottom,  leaving  the  shell.  In  place  of 
the  inside,  put  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  beaten  with  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  sweetened, 
and  flavored  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  peach-wa- 
ter ;  lay  on  it  some  jelK'',  or  jam  ;  beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  with  white  ground  sugar,  until  it  will 
stand  in  a  heap ;  put  it  on  the  jelly,  and  serve. 


LADY-FINGERS.  809 

Spoon  Biscuits. — Put  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
into  a  basin  ;  put  the  3^olks  in  another,  with  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  fine  white -sugar,  and  the  3'ellow 
part  of  a  lemon,  grated  ;  mix  these  last  together, 
for  ten  minutes  ;  then  whip  the  whites  to  a  high 
froth,  and  put  aI)out  half  of  them  to  the  yolks  ;  mix 
it  well  ;  then  add  the  remainder  ;  stir  it  very  gen- 
tly, and  lay  it  with  a  spoon  on  she«"^ts  of  paper  ;  let 
each  be  the  thickness  and  length  (jf  a  finger,  and 
some  little  distance  apart ;  strew  them  with  fine 
white  sugar  ;  lay  the  papers  on  baking-tins,  and  as 
soon  as  the  sugar  dissolves,  and  the  biscuits  shine, 
put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  let  it  remain  open 
for  seven  or  eight  minutes;  then  close  it  for  fifteen 
minutes  :  when  cold,  take  them  from  the  paper  with 
a  knife-blade.  Almonds,  blanched,  and  cut  in  slips 
across,  may  be  stirred  into  the  mixture  before  put- 
ting it  on  the  paper. 

Tablets  de  Patience,  or  Lady-Fingers. — 
Take  eight  eggs  ;  whip  the  whites  to  a  firm  snow. 
In  the  meantime,  have  the  yolks  beaten  up  with  six 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Each  of  these  opera- 
tions should  be  performed  at  least  one  hour.  Then 
mix  all  together  with  six  ounces  of  sifted  flour  ;  and 
when  well  incorporated,  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  rose, 
or  orange  flower  water  ;  stir  them  together  for  some 
time. 

Have  ready  some  tin  plates,  rubbed  w^ith< white 
wax  ;  take  a  funnel  with  three  or  four  tubes  ;  fill 
it  with  the  paste,  and  press  out  the  cakes  upon  the 
plates,  to  the  size  and  length  of  a  finger  ;  grate 
white  sugar  over  each  ;  let  them  lay  until  the  sugai 
melts,  and  the}^  shine  :  then  put  them  in  a  moderate 
oven,  until  they  have  a  fine  color  ;  w4ien  cool,  take 
them  from  the  tins,  and  lay  them  together  in  ecu- 


310  FRENCH    TEA    CAKE. 

pies,  by  the  backs.  These  cakes  may  be  formed 
with  a  spoon,  on  sheets  of  writing  paper.  Halt 
this  quantity  will  be  trouble  enough  at  one  time. 

Loaf  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  two  pounds  of  sugar  rolled  fine,  three  pounds 
of  sifted  whent  flour,  six  well  beaten  egi::s,  three 
teaspoonsful  of  powdered  saleratus.  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water,  one  tablespoon ful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  add  one  pound  of 
currants,  well  washed  and  dried,  one  pound  of 
raisins  stoned  and  cut  in  two;  work  the  whole  well 
together,  divide  it  in  three  loaves,  put  them  in  but- 
tered basins,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Loaf  Cake. — Make  either  of  the  mixtures  di- 
rected for  dou2:hnuts,  work  into  it  one  pound  of  cur- 
rants washed  and  dried,  or  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned 
and  cut  in  two:  bnke  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
served,  cut  it  in  slices. 

Diet  Biscuit. — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  for 
ten  minutes,  with  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  rather  less  Hour,  beat  the  whites  and  the  j^olks 
to  a  high  froth,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
essence  of  lemon  or  orange  flower  water,  add  the 
whites  to  the  yolks,  stir  them  gently  together,  and 
bake  in  small  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

.-French  Tea  Cake. — Beat  ten  eg^s  to  a  hi2:h 
froth,  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  volatile  salts, 
with  a  little  hot  water,  let  it  stand  to  cool,  then  put 
it  to  the  eggs,  and  heat  for  ten  minutes,  add  four 
ounces  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  the  same  of 
sifted  flour,  beat  them  well  together,  line  square  tin 


SUGAR    DROP    CAKES.  311 

pans  with  buttered  pv-iper,  put  in  the  cake  mixture, 
nearly  an  inch  deep,  and  hake  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  served;  cut  it  in  squares. 

Drop  Cakes. — Beat  eight  eggs  very  light  with 
one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  twelve  ounces 
of  flour  ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose,  and  half  a 
nutmeg,  grated;  iftlie  mixture  is  not  beat  enough, 
the  cakes  will  run  into  aach  other  ;  make  them  in 
small  oblong  cakes,  on  sheets  of  paper,  grate  sugar 
over  each  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  wdjen  done, 
take  them  from  the  paper  with  a  knife. 

Almond  Drop  Cakes. — Take  the  skins  from 
an  ounce  of  almonds  and  pound  them  fine,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  and  put  them  to  the  almonds,  tlien  add 
sugar  and  flour  each  an  ounce  and  a  half;  mix 
them  well  together,  strew  sugar  and  flour  in  a  tin 
plate,  drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon  in  small  cakes, 
let  them  be  an  inch  apart ;   bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Lemon  Drop  Cakes. — Grate  the  rinds  from 
three  large  flesh  skin  lemons,  put  to  it  three  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  white  fine  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  wheat  flour;  work  the  whole  together 
with  the  white  of  ah  egp: ;  make  it  in  small  balls 
on  sheets  of  paper,  the  distance  of  an  inch  apart ; 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Sugar  Drop  Cakes. — Beat  one  pound  of  white 
sugar  with  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  beat  the  whites 
often  to  a  high  froth,  mix  one  pound  of  sifted  flour 
to  the  yolks  and  sugar,  tlien  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten 
whites;  beat  the  whole  well  together;  drop  this 
mixture  on  buttered  paper;  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 


312  RICH    FRUIT    CAKE. 

take  them  from  the  paper  whilst  hot,  with  a  knife 
blade. 

CocoANUT  Sponge  Cake. — Beat  the  yolks  of 
six  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  flour,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  essence,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  gra- 
ted ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  ego:s  to  a  froth,  and 
stir  them  to  the  yolks,  &c.  and  the  white  meat  of 
a  cocoa-nut,  grated  ;  line  square  tin  pans  with  but- 
tered paper,  and  having  stirred  the  ingredients  well 
together,  put  the  mixture  in  an  inch  deep  in  the 
pans;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour;  cut  it 
in  squares,  to  serve  with  or  without  icing. 
• 

Rout  Drop  Cakes. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
currants,  well  washed  and  dried  ;  mix  the  whole 
into  a  stiff  paste,  with  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  rose-water,  and  one  gill  of  brandy  ;  strew  a  tin 
plate  with  flour  and  powdered  sugar,  mixed  ;  put 
the  paste  on  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
even. 

Rich  Fruit  Cake. — Make  a  cake  of  one  pound 
of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  ten  eggs.  First  beat  the  yolks 
and  suQ:ar  toother,  then  add  the  flour  and  butter, 
beaten  to  a  cream  ;  and  lastly,  mix  in  lightly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  high  froth. 

Have  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  cut  in  two, 
two  pounds  of  currants  well  washed  and  dried, 
one  pound  of  citron  cut  in  slips,  mace  and  cinna- 
mon, each  a  tablespoonful,  and  a  gill  of  bran^i'-  ; 
strew  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  over  the  cur^ 
rants  and  raisins,   then  stir  all  into  the  cake  ;    line 


WEDDING    CAKE.  313 

round  tia  basins  with  buttered  paper,  fill  them  two 
inches  deep,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  one  hour. 

This  cake  is  better  for  keeping  several  weeks 
or  months. 

Mrs.  Madison's  Whim. — ^Two  pounds  of  flour, 
two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  butter,  beaten 
CO  a  cream,  twelve  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  with  the 
sugar  and  the  whiles  beaten  to  a  high  froth,  two 
wineglasses  of  brandy  in  which  rose-leaves  have 
been  steeped,  two  nutme.sfs,  grated,  one  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot 
water.  Beat  the  wdiole  well  together  until  it  is 
light  and  creamy,  then  add  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  chop[)ed  ;  strew  a  teacup  of  flour  over 
ihem  before  putting  them  in  the  cake  ;  line  round 
basins  wi^th  buttered  paper,  and  put  the  cake  mix- 
ture in  an  inch  and  a  half  deep  ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

This  cake  wiil  keep  good  for  three  months. 

Wedding  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  nine 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one 
pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  one  teacup  of  molasses,  nutmegs 
grated,  or  ground  mace,  one  ounce,  one  teaspoonful 
of  ground  alspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
and  a  gill  of  brandy  ;  beat  this  mixture  well. 

Having  picked,  washed,  and  dried  three  pounds 
of  currants,  and  stoned  and  cut  in  two  three  pounds 
of  raisins,  strew  half  a  pound  of  flour  over  them  ; 
mix  it  well  through,  and  stir  them  with  a  pound  of 
citron,  cut  in  slips,  into  the  cake. 

Line  round  tin  pans  with  buttered  pn per ;  put 
\he  mixture  in  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches 
deep,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  an  hour  and  a 

half  or  two  hours.     See  directions  for  icins:  a  cake. 

N        ° 


314  RICH    BRIDE-CAKE. 

Plum  Cake. — Make  a  cake  of  two  cups  of 
butter,  two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  inilk, 
two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
saleratus,  dissolved  with  a  little  ijot  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  mace  or  nuta:ieg,  one  lea- 
spoonful,  of  ground  alspice,  a  tablespoonful  of  cin- 
namon, and  a  gill  of  brandy  ;  stir  in  flour  to  make 
a  batter  as  slifi*  as  may  be  stirred  easily  wiih  a 
spoon;  beat  it  well  until  it  is  light,  then  add  two 
pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  cut  in  two,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried, 
and  half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  in  slips.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

This  is  a  fine,  rich  cake,  easily  made,  and  not 
expensive. 

To  Clean  Currants  for  Cake. — Pick  out  all 
the  sticks  and  stones,  put  the  currants  in  a  pan, 
and  more  than  cover  them  with  water;  rub  them 
between  3'our  hands,  take  them  up  by  the  handful, 
pick  out  any  imperfections,  and  put  them  into 
another  pan  ;  when  all  are  done,  cover  them  with 
water,  shake  them  about,  take  them  up  in  the 
hand,  press  the  water  from  them,  and  spread  them 
on  a  thickly  folded  cloth,  lay  them  in  the  sun  or 
near  the  fire  to  dry  ;  turn  them  and  spread  them, 
that  they  ma}'-  be  thoroughly  dried.  Keep  them 
in  glass  jars  or  boxes  lined  with  paper.  Some 
dried  currants  require  only  to  be  picked  over, 
rinsed  in  one  water,  and  dried. 

Rich  Bride-Cake — Take  four  pounds  of  sifted 
flour,  four  ])oun(ls  of  sweet  fresh  butter,  beaten  to 
a  cream,  and  two  pounds  of  white  powdered  sugar; 
take  six  eggs  for  each  pound  of  Hour,  an  ounce  of 
ground  mace  or  nutmegs,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  extract  or  orange-Hower  water. 


SCOTCH    CAKE.  315 

Wnsh  through  Severn!  waters,  and  pick  clean 
frori]  gris  four  pounds  of  currants,  and  spread  them 
on  a  foklcHJ  cloth  to  dry;  stone,  and  cut  in  two, 
four  pounds  of  raisins,  cut  two  pounds  of  citron  in 
slips,  and  chop  or  slice  one  pound  of  blanched 
ah  n  on  (Is. 

Beat  the  j'olks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  to  a 
smooth  paste,  beat  the  butter  and  flour  together, 
and  add  them  to  the  3^olks  and  sugar;  then  add 
the  spice  and  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  stir  all  together  for 
some  time;  strew  half  a  pound  of  flour  over  the 
fruit,  mix  it  through,  then  by  degrees  stir  it  into 
the  cake. 

Butter  large  tin  basins,  line  them  with  white 
paper,  and  put  in  the  mixture  two  inches  deep, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours.  The 
fruit  should  be  prepared  the  day  before  making  the 
cake. 

Almond  Spice  Biscuits. — Take  three  pounds 
of  sifted  flour,  three  pounds  of  almonds,  beaten 
fine,  an  ounce  each  of  cinnamon  and  mace,  pound- 
ed fine,  and  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  To 
three  pounds  of  clean  brown  sugar  put  a  teacupful 
of  water;  when  it  is  all  dissolved,  set  it  over  the 
firC)  let  it  become  boilins:  hot,  take  off  the  scum, 
and  make  the  other  ingredients  into  a  paste  with  it, 
make  it  the  size  of  a  rollincr-pin,  lay  it  on  a  sheet  of 
paper,  flatten  it  a  little  with  your  hands,  keeping  it 
higher  in  the  middle  than  at  the  end  ;  put  it  into 
a  quick  oven  for  nearly  an  hour;  when  done,  take  it 
out,  and  whilst  hot,  cut  it  in  slices  the  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  dr}?-  them  in  a  cool  oven. 

Scotch  Cake — Take  two  pounds  of  wheat  flour, 
sift  and  dry  it,  then  mix  with  it  a  pound  of  powder- 


316  ALMOND    MACAROONS. 

ed  sugarand  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  carroway  seeds; 
put  half  a  pound  of  butter  near  the  fire  until  it  is 
rnelted,  then  wurk  the  flour  and  su^rnr  to  a  paste 
with  it ;  roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch  thickness,  and 
cut  it  in  cakes  f(^ur  inches  long  and  three  wide  ; 
lay  them  on  white  paper,  crimp  the  edges  neatly 
with  the  finger,  stick  the  cakes  with  a  fork,  strew 
some  carroway  comfits  over,  and  bake  them  a  pale 
color  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Almond  Drops. — Blanch  and  pound  five  ounces 
of  sweet  and  three  ounces  of  bitter  ahnonds,  with 
a  little  white  of  -egg,  put  half  a  pound  of  flour  on 
your  slab,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  in  which 
put  the  almonds,  with  half  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  work  this  to  a  paste;  make  it  in  rolls  the 
size  of  3'our  finger,  then  cut  it  in  bits  the  size  of  a 
small  nutmeg  ;  make  them  in  round  balls  in  your 
hands,  lay  them  the  distance  of  half  an  inch  apart 
on  sheets  of  paper;  lay  them  on  baking  tins,  and 
put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  lor  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  ;  take  them  from  the  papers  with  a  thin 
blade  knife,  whilst  warm. 

Almond  Macaroons. — Pour  boiling  water  over 
half  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  take  the  skins 
ofl]  and  throw  them  into  cold  water;  when  all  are 
done,  take  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  mortar,  and  pound 
them  to  a  smooth  fine  paste  with  a  little  extract  of 
lemon  or  orange-flower  water;  add  to  the  paste 
an  equal  weight  of  finely-ground  white  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  not  beaten  ;  work  it  toge- 
ther with  the  back  of  a  spoon  until  it  is  a  nice 
paste;  then  <lip  your  hand  in  water,  and  roll  the 
preparation  in  balls  the  shape  and  size  of  a  large 
nutnaeg ;   lay  some  white  paper  on  baking  tins,  lay 


KISSES.  317 

them  on  at  the  distance  of  an  inch  apart;  when  all 
are  done,  dip  your  finger  in  water,  and  pass  it 
gently  over  the  mlicaroons,  this  will  make  them 
smooth  and  shining;  put  them  into  a  slow  oven, 
close  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  the}"  are 
,      done. 

If  this  receipt  is  strictly  followed,  were  can  be 
no  failure,  and  the  macaroons  will  be  found  to  equal 
any  made  by  professed  confectionwsip^ 

CocoANUT  Macaroons. — Make  these  the  same 
as  almond  macaroons,  substituting  grated  cocoanut 
for  powdered  almonds ;  finish  the  same  as  almond 
macaroons. 

Cocoanut  Drops. — Break  a  cocoanut  in  pieces, 
and  lay  it  in  cold  water,  then  cut  off  the  dark  rind, 
and  grate  the  white  meat  on  a  coarse  grater ;  put 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  powder- 
ed white  sugar;  heat  it  until  it  is  light  and  white, 
then  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  and 
gradually  as  much  grated  cocoanut  as  will  make  it 
as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  easily  with  a  spoon  ;  lay 
it  in  heaps  the  size  of  a  large  nutmeg  on  sheets  of 
white  paper,  place  them  the  distance  of  half  an  inch 
apart;  -when  the  paper  is  full,  lay  it  on  a  baking 
tin,  set  them  in  a  quick  oven  ;  when  they  begin  to 
look  yellowish,  they  are  done;  let  them  remain 
on  the  paper  until  nearly  cold,  then  take  them  off 
with  a  thin-bladed  knife. 

)^  Kisses. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  small  eggs  to  a 
high  froth,  then  stir  into  it  half  a  pound  of  finely- 
ground  white  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  ex- 
tract ^  continue  to  beat  it  until  it  will  lie  on  a  heap  ; 
this  being  done,  lay  the  mixture  on  letter-paper, 
in  the  size  and  shape  of  half  an  egg,   and  nearly 


318  JELLY   KISSES. 

llic  distance  of  an  inch  ,apartf  if  it  loses  its  shape 
or  runs,  it  is  not  sufficiently  beaten.  Then  place 
the  [)a[>er  containing  them  on  apiece  of  hard  wood, 
(a  piece  of  the  head  of  a  flour-l)arrel,)  and  put  them 
.in  a  quick  oven,  without  closing  it ;  watch  them, 
Kvhen  they  J|JJ^o  look  yellowish,  take  them  out  ; 
take  the  P^^^^Bp  the  wood  on  to  a  table,  and  let 
tliem  cool^^^^He  or  four  minutes,  then  slip  a 
thin-bladea^BIJjj^very  carefulW  under  one,  turn  it 
into  your  left  hand,  take  another  from  the  paper 
in  the  same  manner,  and  join  the  two  by  the  sides 
which  were  next  the  paper,  then  hiy  the  kiss  thus 
made  on  a  dish  ;  handle  them  very  gently  whilst 
making. 

'J'hese  are  delicious  eating  ;  the  outside  being 
hard,  and  the  inside  a  rich,  creamy  moisture  ;  and 
present  a  beautiful  appearance. 

Following  this  receipt  for  making  kisses  will  in- 
sure success,  unsurpassed  by  any  professed  con- 
fectioner, and  that,  too,  without  the  least  difficulty. 
The  time  required  for  finishing  is  short,  after  hav- 
ing prepared  the  mixture. 

By  placing  the  paper  containing  the  kisses  on  a 
baking-tin,  instead  of  the  board,  liie  bottom  will  be 
hardened  as  well  as  the  upper  surface.  Those 
made  in  this  manner  are  not  as  delicious  as. the  oth- 
ers, as  they  contain  less  of  the  moisture,  or  cream  : 
they,  however,  look  very  well. 

This  mixture  may  be  put  on  the  paper  with  a  sy- 
ringe. For  that  purpose,  press  it  out  in  a  little 
pyramid,  or  heap.  Or  it  may  be  made  in  any 
lorm  you  choose.  ^ 

Jelly  Kisses. — Kisses,  to  be  served  for  dessert 
at  a  large  dinner,  with  other  suitable  confectionary, 
may  be  varied  in  this  way: — Having  made  the 
kisses,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  the  out- 


TO    ICE    OR    FROST    CAKE.  319 

side  is  a  little  hardened  ;  then  take  one  off  care- 
fully, as  before  directed  ;  take  out  the  soft  inside 
with  the  handle  of  a  spoon,  and  put  it  back  with 
the  mixture,  to  make  more  ;  then  lay  the  shell 
down.  Take  another,  and  prepare  it  likewise  ;  fill 
the  shells  with  currant  jelly,  or  jam  ;  join  two  to- 
gether, cementing  them  with  some  of  the  mixture; 
so  continue  until  you  have  enough.^ 

Make  kisses,  cocoanut  drops,  and  such  like,  the 
day  before  they  are  wanted. 

Cocoanut  Kisses. — Make  a  kiss  mixture  ;  add 
to  it  half  of  a  cocoanut,  grated  (the  white  meat 
only)  ;  finish  as  directed  for  kisses. 

/tTTo  Make  Icing  for  Cakes. — Beat  the  white  of 
two  small  eQ:os  to  a  hio:h  froth  ;  then  add  to  them 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  ground  fine, 
like  flour ;  flavor  with  lemon  extract,  or  vanilla  ; 
beat  it  until  it  is  light;  and  very  white,  but  not  quite 
so  stiff*  as  kiss  mixture  ;  the  longer  it  is  beaten,  the 
more  firm  it  will  become.  No  more  sugar  must  be 
added  to  make  it  so.  Beat  the  frosting  until  it  may 
be  spread  smoothly  on  the  cake. 

This  quantity  will  ice  quite  a  large  cake,  over 
the  top^and  sides. 

To  Ice  or  Frost  Cake. — Make  an  icing  as 
above  directed,  more  or  less,  as  may  be  required. 

Turn  over  the  basin  in  which  the  cake  was 
baked,  and  set  the  cake  on  the  bottom  ;  then  spread 
the  icing  on  the  sides  with  a  piece  of  card  paper, 
or  Bristol  board,  about  four  inches  long,  and  two 
and  a  half  wide  ;  then  heap  what  you  suppose  to 
be  sufficient  for  the  top,  in  the  centre  of  the  cake  ; 
and  with  the  card  paper  spread  it  evenly  over ; 


320  ALMOND  MERINGUES. 

set  it  in  a  warm   place  to  dry  and  harden,   aftei 
which,  ornament  it  as  you  may  fancy. 

If  sugar  ornaments  are  put  on,  it  should  be  done 
whilst  it  Is  moist  or  soft. 

For  small  cakes,  where  a  thin  icing  only  is  re- 
quired, it  must  not  be  beaten  as  stiff.  Let  it  be  so 
as  to  flow  for  the  last  coating  of  a  cake  that  it  may 
be  smooth. 

Ornamental  Frosting. — For  this  purpose,  have 
syringes,  of  different  sizes  ;  draw  any  one  you  may 
choose,  full  of  the  icing,  and  work  it  in  any  designs 
you  may  fancy — wheels,  Grecian  border,  or  flow- 
ers look  well ;  or  borders  of  beading.  The  cake 
must,  of  course,  first  be  covered  with  a  plain  frost- 
ing, which  may  be  white  ;  or  colored  pink  with 
cochineal,  powdered,  or  carmine  :  blue,  with  a  lit- 
tle indigo  ;  or  brown  v/ith  a  httle  chocolate,  finely 
grated  :  green  may  be  made  with  a  litde  spinach- 
juice,  or  a  mixture  of  a  little  gamboge  and  indigo — 
more  or  less  gamboge,  according  as  you  want  it 
light  or  dark  green. 

Almond  Meringues. — Beat  the  whites  of  two 
large  eggs  to  a  high  froth  ;  then  add  to  it  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  finely  ground,  double  refined  sugar  ; 
beat  it  until  it  is  light  and  firm,  so  as  to  retain  any 
form  in  which  you  may  place  it ;  add  to  it  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched,  and  cut  in  very 
thin  slices,  across  ;  form  it  in  rings,  on  letter  paper  ; 
put  the  papers  on  baking-tins,  and  put  them  for  a 
short  time  in  a  moderate  oven  (without  closing  it), 
to  harden  ;  when  cold,  take  them  from  the  papers, 
with  a  thin-bladed  knife. 

These,  like  kisses,  macaroons,  etc.,  should  be 
made  a  day  before  they  are  wanted,  on  account  of 
the  time  required  to  do  them. 


COCOANUT   CAKE  OR  CANDY.  321 

Meringues  may  be  made  in  any  fancy  form 
which  may  be  desired. 

CocoANUT  Meringues. — Make  as  above,  using 
finely  chipped  cocoanut,  instead  of  almonds. 

To  Prepare  Cochineal,  to  color  Pinlc  or  Red. 
— Take  an  ounce  of  powdered  cochineal ;  also  an 
ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  two  drachms  ol 
alum  :  put  these  ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  w^ith 
half  a  pint  of  water:  when  it  boils,  take  it  from 
the  fire,  and  let  it  cool ;  pour  it  off  into  a  bottle,  as 
free  from  sediment  as  possible.  To  keep  cochin- 
eal any  length  of  time,  boil  an  ounce  of  it  (finely 
powdered)  in  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  water,  un- 
til reduced  to  half;  then  add  to  it  rock-alum,  and 
cream  of  tartar,  each  half  an  ounce  (pounded  fine)  ; 
boil  them  together  for  a  short  time  ;  then  strain  it; 
when  cold,  bottle  it.  If  you  wish  to  keep  it  for  a 
long  time,  boil  an  ounce  of  loaf  sugar  with  it. 

Almond  Spice  Biscuits. — Blanch  half  a  pound 
of  shelled  almonds,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar, 
to  a  smooth  paste  ;  break  into  them  two  eggs ;  add 
half  a  pound  of  ground  sugar  ;  half  a  nutmeg,  gra- 
ted ;  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  ;  work  it  with  the 
back  of  a  spoon  to  a  smooth  mass  ;  strew  some 
mixed  flour  and  sugar  on  a  paste  slab,  and  roll  it  to 
quarter  of  an  inch  thickness  ;  mark  it  in  squares  or 
diamonds,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes. 

Hazel  Nuts,  or  Filberts — May  be  made  in 
macaroons,  or  meringues. 

Cocoanut  Cake   or  Ca\dy. — Take  cocoanut 

21  N* 


322  PISTACHIO  BISCUIT 

meat  from  the  shell,  pare  off  the  black  rind  and 
grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater,  or  chip  it  fine,  have  half 
a  pound  of  it ;  to  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  put  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water ;  when  it  is  dissolved  put  it 
over  the  fire,  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  then  stir 
in  the  cocoanut,  continue  to  stir  it  until  it  is  thick, 
take  care  not  to  burn  it ;  pour  it  on  a  well  buttered* 
pan  or  marble  slab,  cut  it  in  whatever  forms  you 
think  proper  when  nearly  cold. 

Pistachio  Biscottes. — Mix  together  in  a  pan, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  dried  and  sifted  ;  and  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs ;  beat  them  for  ten  minutes  ;  add  two 
ounces  of  pistachios,  taken  from  the  shells  :  then 
spread  it  on  buttered  baking-tins,  ten  inches  long, 
and  five  wide  ;  make  it  of  an  equal  thickness  ; 
strew  over  it  two  ounces  of  pistachios,  cut  cross- 
wise ;  put  this  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty  or  fifty  min- 
utes; then  take  it  out,  cut  it  in  pieces  rather  more 
than  two  inches  long,  and  half  an  inch  wide  ;  re- 
turn them  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  dry  ; 
almonds  may  be  used  instead  of  pistachios. 

Pistachio  Biscuit. — Take  a  pound  of  pistachio 
nuts,  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  the  whites  ot 
sixteen  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  eight,  two  ounces  of 
flour,  and  a  pound  of  powder  sugar;  blanch  and 
pound  the  pistachios  and  almonds,  moistening  occa- 
sionally with  the  white  of  egg;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  high  froth,  and  the  yolks  with  half 
of  the  sugar^  and  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  ; 
when  both  are  thoroughly  beaten,  put  them  together, 
beat  constantly  ;  whilst  doing  so,  sift  over  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sugar  and  the  Hour,  then  add  the  al- 
monds and  pistachios  ;  make  some  paper  case5', 
put  in  the  biscuits  half  as  thick  as  a  finger,  bake  in 


TO    MAKE    PYRAMIDS.  323 

a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  whip  the 
white  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  sugar, 
to  a  smooth  paste,  and  brush  the  biscuits  ovei 
with  it. 

To  Make  a  Pyramid  of  Cocoanut  Drops^  Mac^ 
caroons,  or  Meringue. — To  half  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar,  put  an  ounce  of  gum  arable,  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  water,  stir  it  until  it  is^  all  dissolved, 
then  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time, 
until  it  is  like  melted  glue. 

Have  a  tin  mould,  or  make  one  of  stiff  paper,  rub 
butter  over  the  outside  to  prevent  the  candy  from 
sticking,  set  it  firmly  on  a  plate  or  table  ;  begin  at 
the  bottom,  by  putting  a  row  around  it,  stick  them 
together  with  the  prepared  sugar,  (which  must  be 
kept  hot,)  when  this  row  is  cold  and  firm,  add 
another  above'^it,  let  that  also  become  firm,  then  add 
another,  and  so  continue  until  the  pyramid  is  finish- 
ed. When  the  cement  is  cold  and  firm,  the  pyra- 
mid may  be  taken  from  the  form. 

These  pyramids  are  used  for  ornamental  des- 
serts or  supper  tables,  and  if  there  is  but  one,  occu- 
py the  centre  of  the  table ;  when  there  are  several, 
the  centre  one  should  be  the  largest,  and  diffi^rent 
from  the  other  two,  one  of  which  should  be  placed 
on  either  side  of  it,  and  at  some  little  distance  from 
it ;  supposing  the  centre  one  to  be  of  almond  mac- 
caroons,  let  those  on  either  side  be  of  meringues  or 
cocoanut  maccaroons,  or  drops  ;  let  the  centre  one 
be  ornamented  with  a  sprig  of  flowers,  or  a  sugar 
figure  at  the  top. 

These  ornamental  pieces  are  suitable  for  fine 
desserts  or  supper  table,  and  should  remain  un- 
touched whilst  the  pastry,  ices,  &c.  are  served, 
then  these  should  be  broken  with  a  knife,  and  the 
fragments  placed  on  the  table  on  flat  dishes. 


324  MOTTOES. 

A  vepy  ornamental  pyramid  may  be  made  thus  : 
make  a  form  of  the  desired  height  and  size,  of  paste 
board  or  stiff  paper,  make  a  wreath  of  green  leaves 
or  of  green  tissue  paper,  fringed  as  for  motto  pape  rs ; 
begin  at  the  top,  and  wind  it  round  the  pyramid, 
about  half  an  inch  apart,  until  the  bottom  is  reach- 
ed, arrange  among  it  at  intervals,  flowers  made  of 
colored  paper,  or  flower  mottoes  or  aatural  flowers; 
put  a  crowning  ornament  at  the  top,  either  a  choice 
flower  or  flowers,  or  some  delicate  sugar  ornament, 
let  this  be  for  the  centre  of  the  table,  on  either  side 
put  boquets  in  high  glass  stands,  or  moulds  of  jelly 
or  cream. 

To  Make  Mottoes. — Cut  white  and  colored 
tissue  paper  in  pieces  about  four  inches  in  width, 
and  five  long  :  cut  the  two  longest  sides  in  fringe 
of  one  inch  depth  ;  put  in  the  centre  of  each  a  sugar 
or  burnt  almond,  or  lozenge,  and  a  motto  verse  or 
two;  fold  the  paper  neatly  around  it,  leaving  the 
fringed  ends  out,  twist  each  end  close  to  the  candy, 
then  spread  out  the  fringe  to  look  full,  like  a  tassel ; 
so  continue  until  you  have  enough. 

Mottoes  may  be  made  in  flowers  or  other  fancy 
forms. 


SETTING  REFRESHMENT  TABLES.      325 

DIRECTIONS 

For  Setting  Refreshment  Tables. 

Tables  of  refreshment  for  an  evening  party,  or 
New  Year's  day,  are  generally  arranged  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner: 

A  long  table  running  through  the  centre  of  the 
room,  or  placed  against  the  broad  side  of  it,  cover- 
ed with  a  white  damask  cloth  for  confectionary, 
jellies,  pastry,  cakes,  &c. ;  and  a  table  at  each  side 
of  the  mantel  recess  or  pier ;  the  one  for  sandwiches, 
oysters,  salads,  celery,  and  wines,  if  used ;  the 
other  for  chocolate,  lemonade,  and  punch,  (if 
used.) 

Or  all  are  sometimes  placed  on  one  long  table,  in 
this  manner : 

Cakes,  confectionery,  jellies,  etc.,  in  the  centre  ; 
at  one  end,  coffee  and  lemonade,  &c.  ;  at  the  other, 
oysters,  sandwiches,  celery,  wines,  &c. 

A  long  table  may  be  placed  at  one  side  of  the 
room,  through  the  centre,  or  across  the  end. 

In  either  case,  the  most  ornamental  dishes,  such 
as  pyramids  or  stands  of  jelly,  are  to  be  placed  in 
the  centre,  the  smaller  ones  surrounding  it ;  those 
directly  opposite  each  other  should  correspond,  both 
in  shape  and  size. 

The  dessert  for  a  fine  dinner  is  similar  to  a  sup- 
per table ;  puddings  occupying  the  place  of 
cakes. 

The  pastry  should  first  be  placed  on  the  table, 
at  some  little  distance  apart ;  next  the  j)uddings, 
charlotte  de  russe,  and  ice  creams,  or  jellies  and 
blancmange,  and  nuts  and  raisins,  together  witk 
ripe  fruits. 

Cherries,  grapes,  pears,  or  small  apples,  peaches, 


326  SETTING  REFRESHMENT  TABLES. 

&c.;  may  be  made  very  ornamental,  whether  for 
the  table  or  for  evening  refreshment,  in  the  follow- 
ing manner : 

For  grapes,  get  the  most  delicate  grape  leaves, 
lay  them  in  cold  water  for  a  short  time,  take  a  small 
brush  like  a  lather  brush,  choose  the  finest  bunches 
of  grapes,  pick  off  every  imperfection,  and  with  the 
*brjsh  polish  them  carefully,  taking  off  with  it  what- 
ever dust  may  be  between  them^ ;  lay  each  cluster 
carefully  by,  until  all  are  done,  then  take  the 
leaves  from  the  water,  wipe  them  dry  ;  lay  them 
neatly  around  the  edge  of  a  flat  dish,  with  the  stems 
inward,  to  cover  the  plate;  lay  bunches  of  grapes 
around  on  the  leaves,  put  a  bunch  in  the  centre, 
put  another  row  of  leaves  upon  the  grapes,  quite 
within  the  circumference  of  the  first,  lay  grapes  on 
it ;  make  another  row  of  leaves  and  grapes,  if  you 
wish. 

For  peaches,  take  off  all  the  down  with  a  brush 
and  arrange  them  in  the  same  way  as  grapes,  with 
peach  or  vine  leaves  between  ;  or  put  a  row  ot 
leaves,  on  them  a  row  of  peaches,  another  row  of 
leaves,  and  on  them  bunches  of  grapes. 

Yellow  or  green  burgalo  pears  make  a  pretty 
appearance  arranged  with  gi'apes  and  leaves,  or 
with  only  leaves. 

Oranges,  apples,  and  green  grapes  should  always 
have  leaves  or  mottoes  arranged  with  them. 

Cluster  raisins  are  served  in  place  of  grapes, 
with  soft  shell  almonds. 

Cherries  may  be  served  with  their  stems  on,  in 
a  glass  bowl,  or  heaped   on  flat  dishes. 

For  evening  parties,  baskets  of  mixed  small 
cakes,  such  as  lady-cake,  macaroons,  lady-fingers, 
almond  spice  biscuit,  comj)osition  cake,  pound-cake 
cut  small,  and  other  small  fancy  cakes,  are  sent 
round  twice  during  the  early  part  of  the  evening, 


SETTING  REFRESHMENT  TABLES.  S27 

with  lemonade  and  glasses  of  water,  and  a  tray  of 
wine,  if  used. 

Jellies,  ice  cream  and  charlotte  de  ruse  or  blanc- 
mange should  be  sent  in  at  a  late  hour,  when  nearly- 
time  for  dispersing,  and  with  them  or  after,  a  tray 
with  glasses  of  ice  water,  and  small  cakes  and 
wines,  and  cordials  if  liked. 

Raspberr}^  and  strawberry  syrup,  diluted  with 
water  and  orgeat  is  much  used  instead  of  lemonade, 
or  with  it ;  small  tumblers  without  handles  are  uned 
for  these,  they  should  not  be  much  more  than  half- 
filled. 

For  a  small  winter  part}",  lemonade,  syrup-water 
and  cakes  may  be  sent  around  twice  during  ihe 
evening,  and  will  be  sufficient. 

Or,  trap's  with  cups  of  coffee  and  tea,  with  pow- 
dered white  sugar  and  cream,  followed  by  a  tray 
of  small  plates,  light  biscuit,  or  short  cake  or  cream 
cakes,  buttered  hot,  and  plates  of  tongue  or  ham 
sliced  thin,  or  dishes  of  pickled  oysters  ;  and  later 
in  the  evening,  fancy  cakes  with  jellies  and  pre- 
serves. This  is  called  a  tea-part3^  Sandwiches 
may  be  served  instead  of  hot  teacakes,  and  are 
much  to  be  preferred,  unless  a  table  is  set. 

When  a  table  is  set,  which  is  best,  if  possible- 
let  it  be  long  enough  to  seat  all  comfortably,  and 
not  very  broad,  not  certainly  m.ore  than  three  feet 
and  a  half  wide. 

Put  a  stand  of  flowers,  or  a  pyramid  in  the 
centre,  and  if  the  table  is  long,  have  one  near  each 
end  ;  place  plates  of  bread  and  butter  sandwich 
at  every  corner,  and*  once  or  twice  on  either  side, 
if  necessary  ;  or  instead,  let  there  be  small  teacakes 
buttered  hot,  with  plates  of  tongue  and  ham  sliced 
very  thin,  between  ;  place  regularly  round,  cakes 
of  fruit  and  pound-cake,  and  baskets  of  cut- 
cake,  and  small  fancy  ditto  ;   intersperse  jellies  or 


328      SETTING  REFRESHMEXT  TABLES. 

jams  and  preserves  with  blancmange  or  grated 
cocoanut  and  charlotte  de  russe  or  trifle,  or  floating- 
island  wigs,  and  tea-rusk  may  be  buttered  and 
served  hot. 

Have  tea  and  coffee  at  either  end  of  the  table,  or 
let  it  be  served  from  a  side-table. 

A  tea-table  may  be  set  with  only  the  substan- 
tial, such  as  hot  cakes,  sandwiches,  oysters  pickled, 
and  tea  and  coffee  ;  and  when  they  are  removed, 
jellies,  blancmange,  floating  island  or  trifle,  or 
charlotte  de  russe,  and  fancy  cakes,  preserves, 
brandied  fruit,  grated  cocoanut  to  take  their  places, 
with  glasses  of  cold  water,  and  wines  and  cordials 
if  used. 

The  ornaments  and  large  cakes  remain  on  from 
first  to  last. 

This  makes  two  courses,  and  is  suflfiicient  without 
any  other  refreshment  during  the  evening. 

For  supper,  see  ''directions  for  setting  refresh- 
ment tables."  page  325. 

Ano3^ster  supper  is  expected  to  be  supplied  with 
oysters  in  every  variety  of  dressing  ;  roasted  in  the 
shell  is  one  of  the  favorites  ;  also  stewed  and  pickled; 
oyster  chowder  and  pies  with  scolloped  oysters  may 
also  be  served. 

Dressed  celery,  celery  in  glasses  and  pickles, 
with  bread  and  butterr  sandwich,  and  rolls  or 
crackers,  and  cold  butter  should  be  served  with 
oysters. 

With  roasted  oysters  it  is  necessary  to  have  a 
small  tub  or  vessel  to  receive  the  shells,  between 
each  two  chairs,  and  coarse  napkins  at  each  plate. 
Coffee  and  porter  is  served  at  oyster  suppers. 
Tureens  or  deep  dishes  of  large  uncooked  oysters 
should  be  on  the  table.  Chicken  or  lobster  salad 
may  be  served  at  any  but  oyster  suppers  with  or 
without  oysters  ;  also  broiled  or  stewed  birds  or 


SANDWICHES.  329 

game.  At  ordinary  supper  parties  it  is  not  customary 
to  sit  at  table ;  when  a  hot  supper  is  served  it  becomes 
necessary  ;  hot  suppers  are  by  no  means  popular 
amongst  us. 

The  information  contained  in  the  last  few  pages, 
is  what  has  been  gathered  by  observation  and 
study  of  the  subject,  and  to  some  it  may  prove 
acceptable — such  as  like  it  not  nor  require  it,  may 
pass  it  by  without  offence. 

Sandwiches. — These  are  made  of  different 
articles,  but  always  in  the  same  manner. 

Cold  biscuit  sliced  thin  and  buttered,  and  a  very 
thin  slice  of  boiled  ham  or  tongue,  or  beef,  between 
each  two  slices. 

Home-made  bread  cuts  better  for  sandwiches 
than  baker's  bread  ;  a  loaf  baked  for  this  purpose 
is  best ;  take  the  size  of  a  quart  bowl,  of  risen 
dough,  mould  it  in  a  roll,  about  three  inches  in 
diameter,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven. 

For  bread  and  butter  sandwich  cut  the  bread  in 
slices,  not  thicker  than  a  dollar  piece,  spread  it 
evenly  with  sweet  butter  before  cutting  it ;  let  the 
butter  be  very  thin,  lay  two  slices,  the  buttered 
sides  together,  for  each  sandwich  ;  when  jow  have 
enough,  arrange  them  on  flat  dislies,  make  them  in 
a  circle  around  the  middle  of  the  plate  as  a  common 
centre,  one  lapping  nearly  over  the  other ;  put  a 
sprig  of  parsley  in  the  centre. 

Sandwiches  may  be  made  with  cheese,  sliced  very 
tliin,  between  each  Uvo  slices  of  buttered  bread, 
also  of  cold  boiled  eggs  sliced,  for  luncheon  ;  stewed 
fruit  or  jelly  or  preserve  spread  thin  over  buttered 
bread,  makes  a  line  sandwich  for  lunch. 

Any  cold  meat  sliced  thin  may  be  made  a  sandr 
wich  ;   it  is  generally  spread  with  made  mustard; 


330  TO    MAKE    GEEEN    TEA. 

the  most  delectable  are   those  made   with   boiled 
smoked  tongue  or  ham. 

To  Make  Coffee. — Get  a  coffee  pot  of  block  tin 
for  making  coffee,  it  is  tiie  best,  and  also  the  easiest 
mode.  Take  off  the  cover  of  the  top,  remove  all 
the  loose  apparatns,  and  put  in  it  dry  coffee  finely 
ground,  np  to  the  inside  rim  near  the*^  bottom,  then 
replace  the  strainers,  press  them  down  into  the  coffee, 
till  the  top  with  boiling  water,  put  on  the  cover  and 
set  it  on  to  a  liot  hearth  or  on  the  back  of  the  range 
when  all  has  run  through,  fill  it  again  and  so  con- 
tinue until  the  coffee  is  of  the  strength  desired.  If 
made  verj^  stj^ong  it  may  be  reduced  when  served, 
by  half  tilling  the  cups  with  boiling  hot  milk  or 
water. 

To  make  Chocolate. — Scrape  or  grate  the  cho- 
colate, take  a  tablespoon ful  of  it  for  half  a  pint, 
half-and-half  milk  and  water;  put  it  in  a  perfectly 
clean  stew-pan,  make  the  chocolate  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  into  the  milk  and 
water  when  it  boils,  cover  it  for  ten  minutes  or 
longer;  add  sugar  to  taste,  unless  French  chocolate 
is  used,  which  is  prepared  sweet  enough. 

Serve  soda  biscuit,  or  rolls,  or  toast,  with  it. 

To  make  Green  Tea. — Have  ready  a  kettle  of 
water  boiling  fast,  pour  some  into  the  teapot,  let  it 
remain  for  a  few  minutes,  then  throw  it  out ;  mea- 
sure a  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  two  persons,  put 
it  in  the  pot,  pour  on  it  about  a  gill  of  boiling  water, 
cover  it  close  for  five  minutes,  then  fill  it  up  ;  have 
a  covered  pitcher  of  boiling  w^ater  with  it;  when 
two  cups  are  poured  from  it,  fill  it  up  ;  5^ou  will 
thus  keep  the  strength  good  and  eq.ual. 

If  the  company  is  large,  it  is  best  lo  have  some 


clotteh  cream.  331 

of  the  tea  drawn  in  the  covered  pitcher,   and  re- 
plenish the  tea-pot  or  urn  when  it  is  exhausted. 

To  MAKE  Black  Tea. — Make  as  directed  for 
green  tea ;  let  it  steep,  setting  on  hot  coals  for  ten 
or  firteen  minutes. 

Hasty  Cream. — Take  a  gallon  of  milk  warm 
from  the  cow,  set  it  over  the  fire  ;  when  it  begins 
to  rise,  take  it  off,  and  set  it  by  ;  skim  off'  all  the 
cream,  and  put  it  on  a  plate,  then  set  the  stew-pan 
over  the  fire  again ;  as  soon  as  it  is  ready  to  boil, 
take  it  off',  and  skim  again  ;  repeat  the  skimming 
until  no  more  cream  rises.  The  miik  must  not 
boil. 

To  Keep  Cream  sw^eet. — Cream  may  be  kept 
sweet  twenty-four  hours,  by  scalding  it  without 
sugar ;  by  adding  as  much  powdered  lump  sugar 
as  will  make  it  quite  sweet,  it  may  be  kept  for  two 
days  in  a  cool  place. 

Cream  Snow, — Take  a  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
mix  with  it  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  white  powdered 
sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  orange-flower  water  or  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
or  vanilla  extract ;  whip  it,  take  off"  the  froth  as  it 
rises,  and  continue  to  beat  it  until  you  have  enough. 

Syrup  of  Cream. — Put  a  pound  of  white  sugar 
to  each  pint  of  fresh  sweet  cream,  boil  it,  stirring  it 
all  the  time ;  put  it  in  a  cool  place  until  it  is  per- 
fectly cold,  then  put  it  in  one  or  two-ounce  phials, 
cork  and  seal  them.  Prepared  in  this  way,  it  may 
be  kept  for  several  weeks. 

Clotted   Cream.- — Take  four  quarts   of  new 


332  ICE    CREAM. 

milk  from  the  cow,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and  let  it  stand 
until  the  next  day ;  then  set  it  over  a  very  slow 
fire  for  half  an  hour,  make  it  nearly  hot,  then  put  it 
away  until  it  is  cold  :  take  off  the  cream  free  from 
milk,  beat  it  smooth  with  a  spoon,  sweeten  it  to 
taste,  and  serve  with  preserves  or  fruit:. 

Ice  Cream. — Boil  a  quart  of  cream,  make  it 
sweet  with  white  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 
nilla extract  of  orange-flower  water;  when  cold, 
freeze  it  as  directed  to  make  "  Ice  Cream."  The 
yolks  of  three  eggs  may  be  beaten,  and  stirred  into 
it  when  it  is  boiling  hot. 

Cream  for  freezing  may  be  made  boiling  hot, 
then  made  sweet  with  loaf  sugar,  and  flavored 
with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract,  or  with  the  juice  of 
strawberries,  raspberries,  or  pine-apple  ;  the  fruit 
should  be  bruised  and  strained,  with  a  quarter-of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  stirred 
into  the  cream  when  it  is  cold. 

Vanilla  or  Lemon  Ice  Cream. — Take  two 
drachms  (^f  vanilla  or  lemon  peel,  one  quart  of  milk, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  ;  beat  the  yolks  well,  and  stir 
them  with  the  milk,  then  add  the  other  ingredients; 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  stir  it  constantly 
with  a  silver  spoon  until  it  is  boiling  hot,  then  take 
out  the  lemon  peel  or  vanilla,  and,  when  cold, 
freeze  it. 

Ice  Cream — Ma)^  be  made  thus  :  Put  milk  over 
a  gentle  fire  to  boil,  stir  it  occasionally  ;  beat  four 
eggs  for  each  quart  until  very  hght,  then  stir  them 
into  the  boiling  milk,  stir  it  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
set  it  to  become  cold  ;  make  it  very  sweet,  flavor  it 
to  taste,  then  freeze  it.  ..If  it  is  flavored  w^ith  the 


TO    KEEP    LEMON    JUICE.  333 

juice  of  berries  or  pine-apple,  bruise  the  fruit,  strain 
the  juice  from  it,  and  put  it  to  the  cream  when 
cold. 

Currant- Water  Ice. — Press  the  juice  from 
ripe  currants,  strain  it  clear;  to  one  pint  of  juice 
put  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  water, 
and  freeze  as  directed  for  cream. 

CuRRANT-WATER.-^Having  pressed  the  juice 
from  ripe  currants,  strain  it  clear:  put  to  each  pint 
nearly  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  reduce  it  with  ice- 
water  to  your  taste  ;  grate  nutmeg  over,  and  serve. 
This  is  a  fine  cooling  summer  beverage.  Serve 
sponge  cake  with  it. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Sugar. — Grate  the  yellow 
outside  from  fresh  skin  lemons  or  oranges,  put  to  it 
an  equal  quantity  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  dry  it, 
and  keep  it  for  flavoring  cakes,  pies,  &c. 

Lemon  or  Orange-Water. — Peel  the  outside 
from  lemons  or  oranges,  pound  it  fine  in  a  mortar, 
pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover  it ;  cover  it  close  ; 
when  cold,  bottle  it  for  use. 

Rose  Brandy. — Put  fresh-gathered  rose-leaves 
in  a  bottle,  cover  them  with  brandy ;  for  flavoring 
cakes  or  puddings. 

To  KEEP  Lemon  Juice. — To  every  pint  of  juice 
put  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar;  stir  it  until  it 
is  all  dissolved,  then  bottle  it;  put  a  teaspoonful 
of  sweet  oil  on  the  top,  and  cork  it  close.  When 
wanted  for  use,  apply  a  bit  of  raw  cotton  to  the  oil, 
and  it  will  immediately  be  absorbed.  Keep  it  in 
ounce  vials.     Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  this  juice 


334  ORGEAT. 

to  half  a  gill  of  ice-water ;   or,  for  hot  lemonade 
use  boilins:  water. 

-y  To  MAKE  Lemonade. — Squeeze  the  juice  from 
twelve  fine  lemons,  put  to  it  one  pound  of  loaf  su- 
gar, pour  a  little  boihng  water  to  the  peels,  cover 
them  ;  when  cold,  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  to  the 
juice  and  sugar;  put  the  prepared  juice  in  decan- 
ters, and  make  with  ice-water  in  summer,  or  boil- 
ing water  in  winter;  put  a  wineglass  of  this  to  half 
a  pint  of  water. 

Lemons  sliced  as  thin  as  a  dollar-piece,  and  the 
edge  cut  in  notches  or  points,  may  be  put  one  in 
each  glass. 

Crushed  raspberries  or  strawberries,  or  thin- 
sliced  pine-apple,  may  be  added  to  lemon. 

Orange  Sherbet. — Squeeze  the  juice  from 
oranges,  pour  boihng  wa.ter  on  the  peel,  and  cover 
it  closely,  boil  water  and  sugar  (a  pint  to  a  pound,) 
to  a  syrup,  skim  it  clear;  when  all  are  cold,  mix 
the  syrup  juice  and  peel  infusion  with  as  much 
water  as  m_ay  be  necessar}^  for  a  rich  taste,  strain 
it,  and  set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  ice.  Or  it 
may  be  made  the  same  as  lemonade,  using  one 
lemon  with  half'a  dozen  oranges. 

Orange-Water  Ice. — Take  ten  or  twelve  fine 
oranges,  take  oflfthe  peel,  divide  them  in  quarters, 
and  after  taking  out  the  pips,  pound  them  with  the 
grated  rinds  of  two  oranges,  put  them  into  a  coarse 
cloth,  and  press  out  all  the  juice,  and  put  to  it  a 
pint  of  water,  in  which  is  dissolved  half  a  pound  of 
sugar.     Freeze  as  directed  for  ice  cream. 

Orgeat. — Take  the  skins  from  half  a  pound  of 
shelled  almonds,  pound  them  to  a  very  fine  paste, 


PINE-APPLE    SYRUP.  335 

ndding  a  little  water  occasionally  to  keep  them 
from  oiling.  Mix  half  a  gallon  of  water  and  some 
orange  flower  water,  or  lemon  extract,  with  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  to  the  paste,  beat  it  well  together, 
then  strain  it  two  or  three  times  through  a  jelly  bag, 
stirring  it  with  a  w'boden  spoon. 

Serve  it  in  small  tumblers  half  filled,  or  in  de- 
canters.    Set  it  on  ice  before  serving. 

Strawberry  Sherbet. — Take  fourteen  ounces 
of  picked  strawberries,  crush  them  in  a  mortar, 
then  add  to  them  a  quart  of  w  ater  ;  pour  this  into 
a  basin,  with  a  lemon  sliced,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
orange  flower  water;  let  it  remain  for  two  or  three 
hours. 

Put  eighteen  ounces  of  sugar  into  another  basin, 
cover  it  with  a  cloth,  through  which  pour  the  straw- 
berry juice,  after  as  much  has  run  through  as  will; 
gather  up  the  cloth,  and  squeeze  out  as  much  juice 
as  possible  from  it ;  when  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved, 
strain  it  again ;  set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  ice, 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Strawberry  Syrup. — Take  fine  ripe  straw- 
berries, crush  them  in  a  cloth,  and  press  the  juice 
from  them  ;  to  each  pint  of  it,  put  a  pint  of  simple 
syrup;  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  then  let  it  become 
cold,  and  bottle  it;  cork  and  seal  it.  When  served, 
reduce  it  to  taste  with  water,  set  it  on  ice,  and 
serve  in  small  tumblers  half  filled. 

Raspberry  Syrup. — Make  as  directed  for  straw- 
berry, and   serve  with   sponge  or  other  cake,  cut 

small. 

Pine-Apple  Syrup. — Take  the  rough  coat  from 
a  ripe  pine-apple,  cut  it  small,  and  pound  it  fine. 


336  TO    MAKE    ICE    CREAM. 

put  a  teacup  of  water  to  it,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
from  it  through  a  cloth,  put  this  to  eno\]gh  simple 
syrup  to  flavor  it,  boil  it, over  a  gentle  fire  for  a 
short  time,  when  cold,  bottle  it ;  mix  it  with  water 
to  your  taste,  set  it  on  ice  ;  serve  in  small  tumblers. 

Lemon  Syrup. — Flavor  simple  syrup  with  ex- 
tract of  lemon. 

Vanilla  Syrup. — Flavor  simple  syrup  with 
vanilla  extract.' 

To  Make  Ice  Cream. — Ice  pots  for  making 
ice  cream  are  of  two  sorts,  block-tin  and  pewter. 
Of  these,  pewter  is  best,  ihe  substance  to  be  iced 
congealing  more  gradually  than  m  the  former,  an 
object  much  to  be  desired  ;  when  the  ice  is  formed 
too  quickly,  it  is  apt  to  be  rough  and  coarse,  like 
hail,  especially  if  it  is  not  well  worked  with  a  spa- 
tula or  flat  wooden  spoon. 

The  other  utensils  necessary  for  the  operation, 
are  a  deep  pail  six  or  eight  inches  larger  in  diame- 
ter than  the  ice  pot,  with  a  vent  peg  at  the  bottom, 
and  a  wooden  spatula  ten  or  twelve  inches  long ; 
then  having  put  the  cream  (or  whatever  it  may  be,) 
into  the  ice  pot,  put  a  layer  of  ice  broken  fine,  and 
mixed  with  coarse  salt  in  the  pail ;  set  on  the  ice 
pot.  fill  the  space  around  the  sides  with  ice  broken 
fine,  and  mixed  with  coarse  salt,  nearly  to  the  top 
of  the  pot ;  take  care  that  none  of  the  ice  gets  into 
it,  strew  over  the  top  of  the  ice  a  large  handful  of 
coarse  salt,  cover  it  with  a  woolen  cloth,  and  let  it 
stand  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  take  the  cover  from 
the  ice  pot,  and  with  the  spatula,  stir  the  contents 
up  together,  so  that  those  parts  which  touch  the 
sides  ofthe  mould,  and  consequently  congeal  first, 
may  be  mixed  with  the  liquid  in  the  middle,  work 


WINE    SANGAREE.  337 

it  well  for  ten  minutes  or  so,  then  replace  the  cover; 
take  the  ice  pot  by  the  ears,  and  stir  it  back  and 
forth  for  quarter  of  an  hoar,  then  open  the  mould  a 
second  time,  and  stir  the  cream  as  before.  Con- 
tinue these  operations  alternately  until  the  cream 
or  whatever  it  is  to  be  frozen,  is  perfectly  smooth, 
and  free  from  lumps. 

During  the  process,  take  care  to  let  out  the  water 
which  will  collect  at  the  bottom  of  the  pail,  by 
means  of  the  vent  peg  ;  keep  the  ice  pressed  close 
to  the  pot. 

It  is  to  be  served  in  a  mould  ;  after  having  nicely 
frozen  the  cream,  put  some  of  it  in,  press  it  close 
to  the  shape,  put  in  more,  and  press  it  close  until 
the  mould  is  full,  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  pail  of 
fine  ice,  mixed  with  salt,  for  one  hour ;  then  take  it 
out,  wipe  the  mould  dr}^  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot 
water,  then  turn  it  into  a  deep  plate,  and  serve 
quickly. 

Note  to  twelfth  edition, 

Austin's  Magic  Freezer  has  superseded  all 
others  for  freezing  creams,  and  may  be  had  at  Ber- 
rian's,  601  Broadway. 

Syllabub. — Take  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon, 
and  the  yellow  rind  pared  thin,  a  glass  of  brandy, 
two  glasses  of  white  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  these  ingredients 
into  a  pan,  and  let  them  remain  one  night,  the  next 
day  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  together,  beat  them  all  together  to 
a  fine  froth;  serve  it  in  jelly  glasses. 

Wine  Sangaree. — Put  a  gill  of  wine  (port  or 
Madeira,)  into  a  tumbler,  add  to  it  water,  hot  or 
cold,  nearly  to  fill  it,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  to 
taste,  grate  nutmeg  over,  and  serve  with  sponge 
cake,  lady  cake,  or  Savoy  biscuit,  cut  small. 

22  O 


338  ivoPwY  crsT  jelly. 

WiKE  Jelly. — Into  a  clean  porcelain  lined  kettle 
put  a  quart  of  water,  acid  to  it  a  pound  of  crushed 
sugar,  the  wliite,  and  shells  of  two  eggs.  When 
it  is  boiling  hot,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine, 
and  a  wineglass  of  pale  brandy  with  the  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  stir  the 
whole  well  together,  and  having  dissolved  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  isinglass  or  gelatine,  in  a  little  ^hot 
water,  stir  it  in,  continue  to  boil  gently,  for  half  an 
hour  or  more,  then  having  pared  oflf*  the  yellow  rind 
of  the  lemons,  put  them  into  the  jelly  strainer,  pour 
the  jelly  over,  and  let  it  drain  slowly  through. 
Should  it  not  be  perfectly  clear,  make  it  hot  and  run 
it  through  a  second  time,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Calf's  Feet  Jelly. — "Wash  and  clean  a  set  of 
large  feet,  boil  them  in  eight  quarts  of  water,  until 
reduced  to  four,  then  strain  it,  and  set  it  to  cool ; 
when  cold,  take  oft*  every  particle  of  fat  from  the 
top,  take  up  the  jelly,  leaving  any  sediment  that 
may  be  at  the  bottom  ;  set  it  over  the  fire  again,  and 
w^hen  it  is  dissolved,  before  it  is  hot,  add  the  whites 
of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  high  froth,  the  juice  of.  six 
lemons,  and  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  sweeten  it  to 
taste,  with  fine  white  sugar,  let  it  boil,  (skimming 
it  well,)  until  it  is  perfectly  clear,  put  some  of  the 
yellow  skins  of  the  lemons  in  the  jelly  bag,  and 
strain  the  jelly  through ;  this  gives  a  fine  amber 
color  ;  if  it  is  not  a  good  color,  strain  it  again  ;  if 
not  sufficiently  firm  a  jelly,  boil  over  a  gentle  fire 
until  it  is  so.  A  wine  glass  of  pale  brandy  may 
be  added  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon. 

Calf's  Head  Cheese. — Take  the  meat  from 
making  the  jelly,  chop  it  fine,  season  with  peppei 
and  salt,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and  press  it. 

IvoPwY  Dust  Jelly. — Boil  one  pound  of  ivory 
dust  in  five  pints  of  water  until  reduced  to  a  quart, 


TO  MAKE  SIMPLE  SYRUP.  339 

then  Strain  it  and  add  a  quart  more  water;  boil  it 
again  to  a  stifFjelly,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
the  yellow  rind  pared  thin.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
strain  it  into  a  mould. 

Jaune  Mange. — Break  up  and  boil  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  in  rather  more  than  half  a  pint  of  water 
until  it  is  melted,  strain  it ;  then  add  thejuice  of  two 
large  oranges,  a  gill  of  white  wine,  and  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  beaten  and  strained  ;  sweeten  to  taste, 
and  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  boils  up  ;  dip 
a  mould  in  cold  water  and  pour  the  preparation 
into  it. 

To  Clarify  Sugar  for  Candies. — To  every 
pound  of  sugar  put  a  teacup  of  water,  put  it  in  a 
brass  or  copper  preserving  kettle,  over  a  slow  fire, 
for  half  an  hour,  put  to  it  a  small  quantity  of  isin- 
glass and  gum  arable  dissolved  together  ;  this  will 
cause  all  impurities  to  rise  to  the  surface,  skim  it 
off  as  it  rises,  boil  until  it  is  thick  candy  ;  flavor 
to  taste. 

All  kinds  of  sugar  for  candies  are  boiled  as 
above  directed.  When  boiling  loaf  sugar,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  rum  or  vinegar  to  prevent  it 
Decoming  too  brittle  whilst  making. 

By  pulUng  loaf  sugar  after  it  is  boiled  to  candy, 
you  may  make  it  as  white  as  snow  ;  rub  your 
hands  with  a  bit  of  butter  that  the  candy  may  not 
stick  to  them  ;  loaf  sugar  after  boiling  thick,  may 
be  pulled  until  it  is  white  and  made  in  small  rolls 
and  twisted  a  little,  and  is  commonly  called  little 
rock  or  snow.  Sugar  boiled  to  candy  may  be 
pulled,  twisted,  rolled  and  cut  in  whatever  forms 
you  choose. 

To  Make  Simple  Syrup. — Put  half  a  pint  of 


340  COMMON  LEMON  CANDY. 

water  to  each  pound  of  sugar,  when  it  is  all 
dissolved  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  let  it  boil  for  half 
an  hour  ;  when  it  is  clear  and  boiling  hot,  spread  a 
wetted  napkin  over  a  basin, -pour  the  syrup  in  and 
strain  it  tlirough  ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Lemon  Candy  or  Rock. — To  one  pound  of  loaf 
sugar  put  a  teacup  of  water,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire, 
stir  it  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  all  dissolved,  put  in  a 
little  hot  rum  or  vinegar  to  clear  it ;  take  off  any 
scum  that  rises. 

Try  when  it  is  done  enough  b}^  dipping  a  spoon 
lu  it  and  raising  it ;  if  the  threads  thus  formed 
snap  like  glass,  it  is  done  enough  ;  rub  a  square  tin 
pan  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in  soft  butter, 
and  pour  the  candy  in  as  thick  as  a  dollar  piece ; 
when  nearly  cold  mark  it  in  narrow  strips  with  a 
knife. 

Before  pouring  it  into  the  pans,  chopped  cocoa- 
nut,  sliced  almonds  or  picked  hickory  nuts  may  be 
stirred  into  it.  Brazil  nuts  taken  from  the  shells, 
cut  in  slices  and  added  to  it,  are  very  good. 

Or  this  candy  may  be  poured  in  the  pans  half 
an  inch  thick  ;  to  be  broken  small  when  cold. 

Common  Lemon  Candy. — Take  three  pounds  of 
coarse  brown  sugar  ;  add  to  it  three  teacupsful  of 
water,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour, 
then  ^put  to  it  a  little  gum  arabic,  dissolved  in  hot 
water  ;  this  is  to  clear  it.  Continue  to  take  off  the 
scum,  as  long  as  it  rises.  When  perfectly  clear, 
tr}''  it  by  dipping  a  pipe  stem  first  into  it  and  then 
into  cold  water,  or  by  taking  a  spoonful  of  it  into  a 
saucer  ;  if  it  is  done  it  will  snap  hke  glass.  Flavor 
with  lemon  extract  and  cut  it  in  sticks  ;  this  may 
be  made  sour  with  lemon  juice  or  a  little  tartaric 
acid. 


MOLASSES  CANDY.  341 

Cream  Candy. — To  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar 
put  half  a  pint  of  water,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for 
half  an  hour  ;  then  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  gum 
arabic,  dissolved,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
When  boiled  to  candy,  bright  and  clear,  take  it  off; 
flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon,  rose,  or  orange. 

Rub  the  hands  over  with  a  bit  of  sweet  butter, 
and  pull  the  candy  between  them  until  it  is  white  ; 
then  stretch  it  out  in  wide  thin  strips  and  cut 
it  in  lengths  ;  or  make  it  in  rolls  and  twist,  or 
braid  it. 

Common  Tavist. — To  three  pounds  of  common 
sugar  put  one  pint  of  water  and  boil  it  over  a  slow 
fire  for  half  an  hour,  then  skim  it  clear  ;  continue  to 
boil  it  until  it  is  candy  ;  try  some  in  a  saucer- 
When  boiled  enough,  take  it  off,  rub  the  hands  with 
a  little  butter,  take  that  which  is  cooled,  and  pull 
it  as  you  would  molasses  candy,  until  it  is  white, 
then  twist  or  braid  it,  and  cut  it  in  strips. 

Peppermint,  Rose,  or  Hoarhound  Candy. — 
Make  as  for  lemon  candy,  flavor  with  essence 
of  peppermint  or  rose,  or  finely  powdered  hoar- 
hound. 

Molasses  Candy  (Taffy.) — Put  a  pint  of  com- 
mon molasses  rn  a  stewpan,  over  a  slow  fire,  let  it 
boil,  stir  it  to  prevent  its  running  over  the  top,  or  if 
necessary,  take  it  off";  when  it  has  boiled  more 
than  half  an  hour  try  it,  by  taking  some  in  a 
saucer;  when  cold,  if  it  is  brittle  and  hard,  it  is 
done  ;  flavor  with  lemon,  sassafras,  or  vanilla,  and 
pour  it  quarter  or  half  an  inch  deep  in  buttered  tin 
pans.  Shelled  peanuts,  (ground  nuts)  or  almonds 
may  be  stirred  into  it,  enough  to  make  it  thick,  or 
but  a  few. 


342  TO  COLOR  FRUIT   YELLOW. 

Molasses  candy  may  be  made  a  light  color  by 
pulling  it  in  your  liands,  having  first  rubbed  them 
over  with  a  bit  of  butter,  to  prevent  the  candy 
sticking  to  them,  during  the  process. 


DIEECTIONS 

FOR    PRESERVING   FRUITS. 

To  Green  Fruit  for  Preserving  in  Sugar 
OR  Vinegar. — Apples,  pears,  limes,  plums,  apri- 
cots, &c.,  for  preserving  or  pickling  may  be  greened 
thus : 

Put  vine-leaves  under,  between,  and  over  the 
fruit  in  a  preserving  kettle  ;  put  small  bits  of  alum, 
the  size  of  a  pea,  say  a  dozen  bits  to  a  kettle  full  ; 
put  enough  water  to  cover  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle 
close  to  exclude  all  outer  air,  set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire,  let  them  simmer;  when  they  are  tender  drain 
off  the  water;  if  they  are  not  a  fine  green  let  them 
become  cold,  then  put  vine-leaves  and  a  bit  of 
saleratus  or  soda  wdth  them,  and  set  them  over  a 
slow  Qre  until  they  begin  to  simmer  ;  a  bit  of  soda 
or  saleratus  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg  will  have 
the  desired  effect ;  then  spread  them  out  to  cool, 
after  which,  finish  as  severally  directed. 

Spinach  may  be  used  for  coloring  green,  instead 
of  vine  leaves. 

To  Color  Fruit  Yellow. — Boil  the  fruit  with 
fresh  skin  lemons   in  water  to  cover  them,  until  it 


PRESERVES.    &C.  343 

is  tender;   then  take  it  up,   spread  it  on  dishes  to 
cool,  and  finish  as  may  be  directed. 

To  Color  Preserves  Pink.  —  By  putting  in 
with  it  a  little  cochineal,  powdered  fine,  then  finish 
in  the  syrup. 

Preserving  Kettles — Should  be  broad,  and 
not  very  deep,  with  a  handle  at  each  side  ;  there 
sho'jld  be  a  closely-fitting  cover.  To  preserve  in 
very  small  quantities,  a  small  ketttle  is  requisite. 

A  charcoal  furnace  or  coal  stove,  or  the  side  of 
a  range,  is  equally  good  for  preserving.  A  furnace 
has  the  advantage  of  being  portable,  so  that  they 
may  be  used  in  the  open  air,  if  necessary. 

Jelly  bags  of  fine  cambric  or  flannel  are  used ; 
these  may  be  made  like  a  lady's  reticule,  with  a 
string  by  which  to  close  the  top  and  suspend  it 
wdiil^t  dripping.    (See  tin  strainers,  page  348.) 

Crushed  or  loaf  sugar  should  be  used  for  best 
preserves  ;  it  is  not  much  higher  in  price  than  the 
best  light  brown  sugar;  there  is,  however,  sufficient 
diflTerence  to  make  it  economy  for  preserving  for 
domestic  use,  since  it  is  equally  nice,  except  to  the 
eye. 

Crushed  or  loaf  sugar  need  only  be  dissolved, 
and  made  hot,  before  putting  in  the  fruit. 

Refined  sugar,  which  is  next  in  price  and  quality, 
need  only  be  dissolved,  boiled,  and  skimmed,  to 
make  it  clear. 

Strawberries,  raspberries,  cherries,  currants,  or 
any  other  red  fruit,  should  have  double-refined  su- 
gar, since  with  brown  sugar  the  color  of  the  fruit 
and  that  of  the  sugar  combined,  makes  a  dingy  red- 
dish brown,  which  is  not  pleasing  to  the  eye ;  nei- 
ther will  it  answer  for  green  fruit. 

Summer  fruits  require  more  care  to  keep,   than 


344  PRESERVES,    &C. 

those  done  later.  A  cool,  dark  closet,  is  the  best 
place  to  keep  preserves. 

Small  glass  jars,  or  wide -mouthed  bottle?,  are 
best  for  liquid  preserves.  The  best  white  earthen- 
ware, or  stone-china  small  jars,  are  good. 

Pint  tumblers  of  common  glass,  or  white  earthen- 
ware pots,  are  proper  for  jellies,  marmalade,  or  jam. 

For  peaches,  quinces,  plums,  &c.  large  glass 
jars,  or  stoneware  pots,  with  sm.all  tops,  are  good. 
There  is  little  or  no  difficulty  in  keeping  preserves, 
(if  they  are  properly  put  up,)  after  the  summer- 
beat  is  past. 

Glass  jars  may  first  be  covered  with  tissue-pa- 
per, and  fastened  against  the  jar  with  a  little  sugar 
boiled  in  water,  and  then  tin  tight-fitting  covers 
put  over. 

Glass  bottles  should  first  be  corked  tight,  then 
dipped  into  coarse  sealing-wax,  melted. 

Jellies,  jam,  &c.  may  be  securiSd  by  first  pressing 
a  piece  of  tissue-paper,  fitting  the  top  of  the  glass 
closely  upon  it ;  then  wet  another  piece  with  sugar 
boiled  to  candy;  paste  it  over  the  top  of  the  tum- 
bler, and  over  that  put  a  third  piece  ;  this  v/ill 
perfectly  secure  them.  Large  jars  may  be  secured 
in  the  same  manner — putting  several  pieces  of  tis- 
sue-paper, and  securing  them  each  separately  with 
the  melted  sugar  or  candy ;  and  over  this  a  close- 
fitting  cover  may  be  put,  or  a  bladder  tied  over  : 
this  last  precaution  is  not  necessary. 

Glass  is  best  for  keeping  preserves,  as  it  ma}^  then 
be  examined  without  opening  the  jars. 

Should  a  thick  mould  appear  on  the  top  of  pre- 
serves, it  must  not  be  disturbed,  as  it  is  no  evidence 
of  spoiling,  but  will  rather  serve  to  keep  them. 

Foam  or  frothiness  is  the  sign  of  fermentation ; 
and  as  soon  as  it  is  perceived,  turn  the  preserves 
from  the  jar  or  pot  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  set 


TO    BOTTLE    FRUIT.  345 

it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  tnke  off  the  skim  or  foain  as 
it  rises;  when  no  more  rises,  tnke  out  the  fruit 
wiili  a  skimmer,  and,  having  washed  ihe  jnr  with 
cold  w^fiter,  nnd  perfecth^  dried  it  at  the  fire,  put  in 
the  fi'uit;  give  die  syrup  one  more  boil,  skim  it, 
and  put  it  in  a  pitcher  to  settle  ;  when  nenrly  cold, 
pour  it  carefulK"  over  the  fiuit,  leaving  \^  hatcver 
sediment  there  may  be  ut  the  bottom.  When  per- 
fectly cold,  cover  them  as  at  first. 

To  Clarify  Sugar,  for  Preserving. — Put  into 
a.  preserving  pan  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  you 
wish  ;  to  each  pound  of  sugar  put  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  to  every  four  pounds; 
stir  it  together  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  then 
set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  stir  it  occasionally,  and 
take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises:  after  a  few  boilings 
up,  the  sugar  will  rise  so  high  as  to  run  over  the 
side  of  the  pan  ;  to  prevent  which,  take  it  from  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes,  when  it  will  subside,  and 
leave  time  for  skimming.  Repeat  the  skimming 
until  a  slight  scum  or  foam  only  will  rise  ;  then 
take  off  the  pan,  lay  a  slightly  wetted  napkin  over 
a  basin,  and  then  strain  the  sugar  through  it. 

Put  the  skimmings  into  a  basin;  when  the  sugar 
is  clarified,  rinse  the  skimmer  and  basin  with  a 
glass  of  cold  water,  and  put  it  to  the  scum,  and 
set  it  by  for  common  purposes. 

To  Bottle  Fruit.  —  Cherries,  strawberries, 
sliced  pine-apple,  plums,  apricots,  gooseberries,  &c. 
may  be  preserved  in  the  following  manner — to  be 
used  the  same  as  fresh  fruit. 

Gather  the  fruit  before  it  is  very  ripe  ;   put  it  in 

wide-mouthed   bottles   made  for  the   purpose;    fill 

them  as  full  as  they  will  hold,  and  cork  them  tight; 

seal  the  corks  ;  put  some  hay  in  a  large  saucepan, 

o* 


346  TO  PRESERVE    PINE-APPLES. 

set  in  the  bottles,  with  ha}^  between  them,  to  prevent 
their  touching  ;  then  fill  the  saucepan  with  water 
to  the  necks  of  the  bottles,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
until  the  water  is  nearly  boiling,  then  take  it  ofF; 
let  it  stand  until  the  bottles  are  cold,  then  keep  them 
in  a  cool  place  until  wanted,  when  the  fruit  will  be 
found  equal  to  fresh. 

\ 

.-:To  Preserve  Pine-x\pples  without  Cooki7ig.'-^  " 
The  best  pine-apples  for  preserving  are  those  known 
as  the  sugar-loaf  and  bird*s-eye;  these  are  richer 
in  flavor,  and  the  coat  or  skin  being  less  rough^ 
they  are  less  troubleson)e  to  pare  ;  they  should  not 
be  very  ripe. 

Pare  off' the  rough  outside  of  the  pine-apple,  and 
cut  it  in  thin  slices,  (not  much  thicker  than  a  dollar- 
piece  ;)  have  ready  a  pound  of  finely-ground  white 
sugar  for  each  j)ound  of  fruit ;  put  sugar  half  an 
inch  deep  at  the  bottom  of  a  small  glass  jar,  then 
put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  pine-apple  nearly  an  inch 
deep;  on  that  put  sugar  as  thick  as  at  first,  press  it 
down  with  a  spoon  as  closely  as  possible  ;  then 
another  layer  of  pine-apple,  then  one  of  sugar,  and 
so  continue  until  the  jar  is  full — sugar  being  the 
last. 

Put  closely-fitting  corks  in  the  top,  and  dip  them 
in  melted  sealing-wax  ;  set  them  in  a  cool  dark 
place  until  cold  vi^eather;  or  the  jars  may  be  se- 
cured by  pasting  tissue-paper,  wet  with  melted 
sugar,  over  first;  then  put  a  closely-fitting  tin  cover 
over. 

Many  persons  use  more  than  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  a  pound  of  fruit.  One  pound  will  be  found  suf- 
ficient. 

Pine-apples  preserved  in  this  way,  have  much 
the  taste  of  brandy  fruit.     They  are  much  liked. 

Pine-apples  bottled   as   before   directed,   should 


PINE-APPLE    JELLY.  347 

be  served  with  sugar  strewed  over,   the  same  as 
fresh  fruit. 

Pine-Apple  Preserve. — Twist  off  the  top  and 
bottom,  and  pare  off  the  rough  outside  of  pine- 
apples ;  then  weigh  them  and  cut  them  in  slices, 
chips,  or  quarters,  or  cut  them  in  four  or  six,  and 
shape  each  piece  like  a  whole  pine-npple;  to  each 
pound  of  fruit  put  a  teacup  of  water ;  put  it  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  cover  it,  and  set  it  over  the  tire, 
and  let  them  boll  gently  until  they  are  tender  and 
clear;  then  take  them  from  the  water,  by  sticking 
a  fork  in  the  centre  of  each  shce,  or  with  a  skim- 
mer, into  a  dish. 

Put  to  the  water,  white  sugnr,  a  pound  for  each 
pound  of  fruit  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  all  dissolved  ;  then 
put  in  tlie  pine-apple,  cover  the  kettle,  and  let  them 
boil  gently  until  transparent  throughout  ;  when  it 
is  so,  take  it  out,  let  it  cool,  and  put  it  in  glass  jars: 
let  the  syrup  boil  or  simmer  irently  until  it  is  tliick 
and  rich,  and  when  nearly  cool  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 
The  next  day  secure  the  jai's  as  before  directed. 

Pine-apple  done  in  this  way,  is  a  beautiful  and 
delicious  preserve.  The  usual  manner  of  preserv- 
ing it,  by  putting  it  into  tlie  S3"rup  without  first  boil- 
ing it,  makes  it  little  better  than  sweetened  leather 

Pine-Apple  Jelly. — Take  a  perfectly  ripe  and 
sound  pine-apple,  cut  off  the  outside,  cut  it  in  small 
pieces;  bruise  them,  and  to  each  pound  put  a  tea- 
cup of  water  ;  put  it  in  a  preserving-kettle  over  the 
fire,  cover  the  kettle,  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty' 
minutes;  then  strain  it,  and  squeeze  it  through  a 
bit  of  muslin  :  for  each  pound  of  fruit  take  a  pound 
of  sugar,  put  a  teacup  of  water  to  each  pound  ;  set 
it  over  the  fire  until  it  is  dissolved  ;  then  add  the 
pine-apple  juice  :    for    each    quart    of   the    s\'rupj 


34S  WHOLE    PINE-APPLES. 

clarify  an  ounce  of  the  best  isinglass,  and  stir  it  in; 
let  it  boil,  until  by  taking  some  on  a  plate  to  cool, 
you  find  it  a  stiff  jelly.     Secure  it  as  directed. 

To  Preserve  Whole  Pine-Apples. — Get  small 
sized  pine-apples,  not  perfectly  ripe ;  twist  off  the 
green  top  ;  pare  the  fruit  iieatly  with  a  sharp  small 
knife,  and  with  care  take  out  the  tough  centre,  run- 
ning from  top  to  bottom  ;  take  fiom  the  green  top 
all  but  five  or  six  of  the  inner  leaves,  and  put  them 
and  the  pine-apples  into  a  preserving  kettle;  put  to 
them  half  a  pint  of  w^ater  for  each  pound  of  fruit ; 
cover  the  kettle  close,  and  set  it  over  a  modernte  fire ; 
when  they  look  a  uniform  color,  and  are  tender,  take 
them  carefully  on  a  fint  dish;  throw  a  nnpkin  over 
them  ;  to  the  wnler  in  which  they  were  boiled,  put  a 
pound  of  double  refined  sugnrtoeach  pound  ofiruit; 
stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let 
it  become  boiling  hot;  then  put  in  the  pine-apples 
and  green  tops  ;  cover  the  preserving  kettle,  nnd  let 
them  boil  gently,  until  they  are  almost  transparent, 
and  of  the  same  appearance  throughout:  then  take 
them  carefully  into  a  tureen,  or  large  glass  jar:  as 
soon  as  they  are  cooled,  put  the  tops  in  their  places; 
boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick,  and  not  more  than 
half  the  original  quantity  ;  then  turn  it  over  the 
fruit,  and  when  it  is  cold,  secure  it  with  paper,  and 
a  close  fitting  cover. 

Tin  Jelly  StrainehS. — An  excellent  article  foi 
straining  jellies  may  be  procured  at  Berrian's,  601 
Broadway,  and  which  will  be  found  both  an  economy 
and  a  convenience  and  worth  tvrice  its  price.  It  is 
a  double  vessel,  the  outer  one  to  be  filled  with  boil- 
ing water.  Into  the  inside  put  a  piece  of  thin  can> 
brie  or  book  muslin,  set  it  in  a  place  where  it  M'ill 
be  undisturbed,  set  a  vessel  for  receiving  the  jelly 
under  tlie  spout,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  strainer, 


PRESKRVING   QUINCES.  349 

let  it  drip  slowly  until  it  has  all  run  through.  The 
water  in  the  outer  vessel  being  hot,  the  jelly  con- 
tinues liquid  until  it  has  all  run  through. 

Should  any  thing  occur  to  prevent  the  jelly  be- 
ing sufficiently  clear,  make  it  hot,  and  having  rinsed 
the  muslin,  replace  it  and  run  the  jelly  through  a 
second  time. 


To  Keep  Quinces. — Quinces,  to  keep,  must  be 
gathered  when  quite  ripe,  and  perfecdy  sound.  Rub 
off  the  down,  quarter  and  core  them,  and  put  them 
in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  finish  as  directed  for 
bottling:  fruit. 


Quinces  for  Preserving — Should  be  perfectly 
ripe  and  sound.  The  large  apple-quince  is  pre- 
ferred for  making  jelly. 

Pare  and  halve  the  quinces,  and  take  out  the 
cores  ;  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  after  it  is  thus  pre- 
pared, put  a  teacup  of  water  ;  put  them  into  a 
preserving  kettle,  over  the  fire  ;  cover  it,  and  let 
them  boil  gently,  until  a  broom  splint  vvill  pierce 
them  ;  then  take  them  from  the  water  with  a  skim- 
mer, on  to  a  flat  dish  ;  fold  a  napkin  over  them  ;  to 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  put  one  pound 
of  white  sugar  to  each  pound  of  quinces ;  stir  it 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  hot ;  then  put  in  the 
quinces  ;  let  them  boil  gently,  until  they  are  clear, 
and  the  syrup  is  thick  ;  cut  one  open  ;  if  it  is  not 
one  color  all  the  way  through,  let  them  boil  longer, 
until  it  is  so.     Take  them  into  whatever  j^ou  intend 


i  / 

350         QUINCES  IN  JELLY  SYRUP. 

keeping  them  in  ;  let  the  syrup  cool,  and  settle  for 
a  few  minutes  ;  then  turn  it  over  the  fruit ;  next 
day,  cover  them  as  directed. 

If  the  quinces  are  done  in  brown  sugar,  put  to  it 
the  white  of  one  egg  for  each  pound  ;  stir  it  in,  and 
having  boiled  the  fruit  as  directed,  (with  a  teacup 
of  water  for  each  pound,)  pour  the  water  on  the 
sugar;  stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved  ;  then  set  it  o^er 
the  fire  ;  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  :  should  it  be 
likely  to  boil  over,  set  it  off,  or  at  one  side:  when 
no  more  scum  rises,  only  a  light  f()am,  put  in*the 
quinces,  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  gently,  until 
thev  are  clear,  and  a  uniforu)  color  tliroucihout,  and 
the  syrup  is  thick  ;  then  take  them  into  the  pot  or 
jar  with  a  skimmer;  Ijoil  the  syrup  for  a  few  min- 
utes longer,  and  turn  it  over  the  fruit ;  the  next  day 
cover  and  secure  as  directed. 

The  skins  ot  quinces  may  be  boiled  with  "very 
little  water,  until  they  are  soft;  then  mash  them; 
put  them  in  a  bag  of  muslin,  and  strain  the  liquor 
from  them.  This  maybe  put  with  the  preserve,  or 
boiled  w^ith  apples  and  sugar,  to  make  a  jelly;  the 
seed  are  not  fit  to  use,  since  they  make  a  jelly  or 
syrup  ropy.  Quinces  are  very  fine,  preserved  ac- 
cording to  this  receipt. 

Quinces  in  Jelly  Sykup. — Pare,  halve  and 
core  as  many  fine  quinces  as  you  wish  ;  take  an 
equal  weight  of  white  crushed  sugar  ;  put  a  layer 
of  the  quinces  in  a  preserving  kettle,  turning  the 
core  side  up  ;  fill  the  places  of  the  cores  with  su- 
gar, and  strew  some  oVer  them  ;  put  another  layer 
of  quinces;  fill  the  cores,  and  strew  them  in  the 
same  way,  until  all  the  sugar  and  quinces  are  used  ; 
put  over  them  a  teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  of 
fruit;  cover  the  preserving  kettle,  and  set  them  over 
a  l)risk  fire,  to  boil  quickly,  until  the  quinces  are 


QUINCE     JELLY,  351 

tender,  anrl  the  syrup  clear.  Tii  the  meantime,  cut 
some  ricli  tart  apples  small,  and  put  ihem  into  a 
stew-pan,  with  very  iittle  w^ater  ;  lH)il  them  until 
soft  ;  then  put  tb.em  in  a  bag,  drain  the  ll(]uor  from 
ihem  ;  and  after  taking  the  quinces  from  the  syrup, 
put  the  liquor  in,  boil  it  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  take 
it  from  the  fire,  let  it  settle  f)r  a  few  minutes;  then 
pour  it  over  them.  When  perfectly  cold,  cover  and 
secure  as  directed. 

To  half  a  peck  of  apples,  after  paring,  coring, 
and- cutting  them  small,  put  a  teacup  of  water ; 
cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  until  soft ;  then 
drain  the  liquor  from  them  through  a  jelly-bag, 
without  pressing  it;  the  pulp  maybe  sweetened 
and  spiced,  for  tart  or  sauce.  This  quantity  will 
be  enough  for  fifty  fine  quinces. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Gather  the  fruit  when 
fully  ripe  ;  pare,  quarter  and  core  it ;  U^il  the  skins 
with  as  many  teacupfuls  of  water  as  you  have 
pounds  of  quinces  ;  w^hen  they  are  soft,  mash  them, 
and  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  it  to  the 
quinces;  boil  them  until  they  are  soft  enough  to 
mash  them  fine  ;  rub  them  through  a  sieve  ;  put  to 
the  pulp  as  many  pounds  of  sugar;  stir  them  to- 
gether, and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  until  it  will 
fall  from  a  spoon,  like  jelly  ;  or  try  some  in  a 
saucer.     If  it  jellies  when  cold,  it  is  enough. 

Put  it  in  pots  or  tumblers,  and  when  cold,  secure 
as  directed  for  jelly. 

Quince  Jelly. — Qumces  for  jelly  should  not 
be  quite  ripe,  they  should  be  a  fine  yellow,  rub  off 
the  down  from  them,  core  them,  and  cut  them 
small ;  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle,  w^ith  a  tea- 
cup of  water  for  each  pound,  let  them  stow  gently 
until  soft,  without  mashing,  put  them  in  a  thin  mus- 


352  QUINCE    CHEESE. 

lin  bag  with  the  liquor,  press  them  very  slightly  ; 
to  each  pint  of  the  hcjuor  put  a  pound  of  sugar;  stir 
it  until  it  is  all  dissolved,  then  set  it  over  the  fire, 
and  let  it  boil  gently,  until  by  cooling  some  on  a 
plate,  you  find  it  a  good  jelly,  then  turn  it  into  pots 
or  tumblers,  and  when  cold,  secure  as  directed  for 
jeUies. 

Quince  and  Apple  Jelly. — Cut  small,  and 
core  an  equal  weight  of  tart  apples  and  quinces  ; 
put  the  quinces  into  a  preserving  kettle,  with  water 
lo  cover  them,  cover  and  set  it  over  the  fire  until 
they  are  soft,  then  add  the  apples,  let  them  boil 
until  they  are  almost  a  pulp,  (there  should  be 
enough  water  to  cover  them,)  then  put  all  into  a 
jelly  bag,  and  strain  without  pressing  it;  lo  each 
pint  of  the  liquor  put  a  pound  of  \vhite  sugar,  put 
it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently,  until  by  try- 
ing some  on  a  flat  plate,  you  find  it  a  fine  jelly  ; 
when  cool,  [)ut  it  in  pots  or  tumblers,  the  next  day 
cover  as  directed. 

After  making  the  best  jelly,  squeeze  the  juice 
from  the  pulp,  put  a  teacup  of  clean  brown  sugar 
to  a  pint  of  it,  boil  it,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises  ;  when  it  is  a  nice  jelly,  put  it  in  pots. 

Quince  Cheese. — Pare  and  core  ripe  quinces, 
cut  them  small,  put  the  parings  into  a  preserving 
kettle,  turn  a  plate  over  them,  large  enough  to  cover 
them,  then  put  in  the  cut  quinces,  with  a  small  tea- 
cup of  water  for  each  [X)un(l,  cover  the  kettle  close, 
and  set  it  over  a  genlle  fire  until  they  are  quite  soft, 
then  take  them  out;  stram  the  water  from  the 
parings,  lo  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  for  each  pound 
of  cut  quinces,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it 
is  dissolved  ;  let  it  boil,  taking  off  the  scum,  until 
only  a  light  fcam  rises;  mash  the  quinces  fine,  and 


CITRON,  353 

put  them  into  the  syrup,  cover  it,  and  let  theni  boil 
slowly,  (take  care  that  it  does  not  burn,)  until  it  is 
thick,  like  a  stiff  jelly  ;  line  earthen  flat  dishes  or 
boxes  with  tissue  paper,  put  the  marmalade  or 
cheese  in  to  fill  them  ;  when  cold,  lay  tissue  paper 
over,  and  cover  with  earthen  lids.  Serve  cut  in 
slices  for  luncheon,  tea  or  supper. 

Apples  or  pears  may  be  put  with  the  quinces,  or 
done  in  the  same  manner  without  the  quinces  ; 
lemon  cut  small,  should  be  put  wuth  apples  or 
pears,  to  flavor  them. 

Water-Melon  Preserves. — Cut  a  water- 
melon in  two,  take  out  the  soft  inside,  leaving  only 
the  firm  w^hite  skin,  scrape  off'  the  green  outside, 
and  cut  them  in  any  fancy  shapes  j^ou  choose; 
stars,  crescents,  diamonds,  and  such  like,  have  a 
pretty  appearance. 

Color  them  green,  yellow,  or  pink,  by  boiling 
them  as  directed  in  remarks  at  the  beginning  of 
this  chapter,  then  spread  them  out  on  plates  to  cool, 
make  the  syrup  with  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  teacup 
of  water,  for  each  pound  of  the  prepared  melon  ; 
when  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  and  hot,  put  in  the 
melon,  let  it  boil  until  it  is  clear,  flavor  with  lemon 
and  ginger,  or  rose,  if  colored  pink ;  if  they  are 
colored  yellow  by  boiling  with  lemons,  slice  the 
lemons  into  the  syrup  ;  when  it  is  transparent,  take 
the  pieces  with  a  skimmer  from  the  syrup,  and 
spread  them  on  flat  dishes,  let  it  boil  until  it  is  thick  ; 
pour  it  into  a  pitcher  to  cool  and  settle,  put  the  pre- 
serve into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  caref\illy  over ; 
when  cold,  cover  as  directed. 

Citron. — Cut  the  citron  in  wedge-shaped  slices 
from  stem  to  bud  end,  let  the  outside  be  nearly  an 
inch  thick,  take  out  the  seed  part^  and  boil  thein 


354  ORANGES    IN    JELLY. 

with  lemons,  to  make  thorn  yellow  ;  or  green  them, 
as  directed  at  the  beginning  of*  this  subject,  until 
they  are  tender,  but  not  soft,  then  lay  them  ont 
singly  on  flat  dishes  to  cool,  and  finish  as  directed 
for  water-melon  preserve. 

Musk-Melon  Preserved. — This  is  begun,  con- 
,      tinned,  and  ended,  the  same  as  directed  for  citron. 

Tc  Preserve  Limes  and  Lemons. — Green 
them  as  directed,  then  put  them  in  water  to  cover 
them,  and  boil  until  a  straw  will  pierce  the  skin 
through,  then  make  a  syrup  of  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  and  a  teacup  of  w^ater,  for  each  pound  of 
fruit ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  when  the  sugar  is  all  dis- 
solved, and  hot,  cut  a  slit  on  one  side  of  each  lime, 
from  end  to  end,  in  the  middle,  or  pierce  them 
several  times  through  with  a  large  needle,  put  them 
into  the  synip,  cover  the  kettle,  and  let  ihern  boil 
until  clear  or  transparent,  put  them  in  pots  or  jars, 
boil  the  syrup  quite  thick,  then  turn  it  over  them  ; 
when  cold,  secure  as  directed. 

Lemons  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  or 
after  boiling  them  tender,  cut  them  in  slices  or 
quarters. 

Linies  and  lemons  are  preserved  without  the 
pulp  ;  after  having  greened  and  boiled  them  tender, 
cut  them  in  two,  or  only  down  one  side,  take  out 
the  pulp,  make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  pound  ti)r  pound, 
and  a  teacup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar  ;  when 
it  is  clear,  put  in  the  limes  or  lemons,  and  boil 
gently  until  they  are  transparent, -then  put  tbern  in 
pots  with  the  syrup. 

Oranges  in  Jelly. — Take  a  dozen  of  the 
smallest  sized  oranges,  boil  them  in  three  changes 
of  \yater,  until  a  straw   will   easily  penetrate   the 


PRESERVED  CRAB  APPLES  &C.       355 

slvin  ;  lake  half  a  pound  of  white  sui^ar  for  each 
pound  of  orano^es,  and  for  each  pound  of  sugar,  a 
small  teacup  of  water  ;  when  it  is  all  dissoived,  set 
it  over  a  gentle  fire,  put  in  the  oranges,  cover  them, 
and  let  them  boil  gently  ;  when  the  fruit  looks  clear, 
take  the  oranges  up,  cut  them  half  way  down  in 
quarters,  or  cut  them  entirely  through  ;  put  to  the 
S}"rup  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water,  give  it  one  boil,  then  take  some  of  it  into 
a  saucer,  if  it  is  not  as  thick  as  you  wish,  boil  it  a 
time  longer,  put  the  oranges  into  a  deep  glass  dish, 
and  turn  the  jelly  over  them.  Apple  jelly  may  be 
used  instead  of  isinglass. 

Lemons  may  be  done  in.  fhis  manner. 

This  is  a  highly  ornamental  dish,  and  may  be 
made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  This  jelly  may 
be  made  firm,  and  the  oranges  sliced  ;  put  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  to  a  quart  of  syrup. 

Put  the  jelly  an  inch  deep  in  the  mould,  when  it 
is  cold,  lay  in  slices  of  the  preserved  orange,  put 
more  jelly  in,  when  that  is  cold,  put  on  more  slices, 
and  so  continue  until  the  mould  is  full.  When 
wanted,  dip  the  mould  for  an  instant  in  hot  water,, 
then  turn  it  out  on  a  flat  "lass  dish. 

o 

To  Preserve  Crab  Apples  or  Lady  Ap- 
ples.— Take  off  the  stem,  and  core  them  w^th  a 
pen-knife,  without  cutting  them  open,  weigh  a  pound 
of  while  sugar  for  each  pound  of  pre[)are(l  fruit,  put 
a  teacup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar,  put  it 
over  a  moderate  fire,  v/hen  the  sugar  is  all  dissol- 
ved, and  hot,  put  the  apples  in,  let  them  boil  gently 
until  they  are  clear,  then  skim  them  out,  and  spread 
them  on  flat  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick, 
put  the  syrup  in  whatever  they  are  to  be  kept,  and 
when  the  syrup  is  cooled  and  settled,  pour  it  care- 
full}^  over  tlie  fruit. 


356  APPLE    JELLY. 

Slices  of  lemn  boiled  with  the  fruit,  may  be  con- 
sidered an  improvement;  one  lemon  is  enough  for 
several  pounds  of  fruit. 

Crab  apples  may  be  preserved  whole,  with  only 
half  an  inch  of  the  stem  on  ;  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit. 

To  Preserve  Apples. — Pare  *and  core,  and 
cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,  take  as  many  pounds 
of  the  best  brown  sugar,  put  a  teacup  of  water  to 
each  pound  ;  when  it  is  dissolved,  set  it  over  the  fire, 
and  when  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  until  it  is  clear,  and  the  S3M'up  thick,  take 
the  fruit  with  a  skimmer  on  to  flat  dishes,  spread  it 
to  cool,  then  put  it  in  pots  or  jars,  and  pour  the  jelly 
over. 

Lemons  boiled  tender  in  water,  and  sliced  thin, 
may  be  boiled  with  the  apples. 

To  Preserve  Pippins  in  Slices. — Take  the 
fairest  pippins,  pare  them,  and  cut  tliem  in  slices 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  without  taking  out  the 
cores  ;  boil  two  or  three  lemons,  and  slice  them  with 
the  apples  ;  take  the  same  weight  of  white  sugar, 
(or  clarify  brown  sugar,)  put  half  a  gill  of  water  for 
each  pound  of  sugar,  dissolve  it,  and  set  it  over  the 
fire  ;  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  slices,  let 
ihem  boil  very  gently  until  they  are  clear,  then  take 
them  with  a  skimmer  and  spread  them  on  flat 
dishes  to  cool;  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  quite  thick, 
put  the  slices  on  flat  dishes,  and  pour  the  syrup 
over.  These  may  be  done  a  day  before  they  are 
wanted  ;  two  hours  will  be  sufficient  to  make  a  fine 
dish  for  dessert  or  supper. 

Apple  Jelly. — Pare  and  core  tart,  juicy  ap- 
ples, and  cut  them  small,  put  to  them  a  little  water, 


APPLES    IN    JELL^V.  357 

and  boil  them  in  a  covered  vessel  until  they  aie 
soft,  and  the  liquor  glutinous,  then  strain  them  with- 
out squeezing,  put  one  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice,  flavor  with  lemon  extract,  and  boil 
until  by  cooling  some  in  a  saucer,  you  find  it  a  fine 
jell}^  strain  it  through  thin  musHn  into  moulds. 
Put  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  to  the  apples,  iVoni 
tlie  jelly  bag,  and  stev/  them  to  a  thick  marmalade. 

Orange  Jelly. —  Put  one  quart  of  water  into  a 
sauce-pan  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hartshorn 
shavings,  or  two  ounces  of  isinglass  broken  small, 
boil  it  gently  until  it  is  a  strong  jelly  ;  take  the  juice 
from  four  large  oranges,  and  two  fine  lemons,  and 
half  the  yellow  rind  from  one  orange  and  one  lernon, 
pared  thin,  put  them  to  the  jelly,  and  make  it  sweet 
wyth  loaf  sugar,  then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to 
a  high  froth,  mix  it  in,  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  once  or  twice,  until 
it  is  perfectly  clear ;  put  it  in  fancy  moulds.  When 
you  wish  to  serve  it,  set  the  mould  for  a  few  seconds 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  turn  a  fiat  glass  or  china  dish 
over  the  mould,  reverse  it  with  the  mould  upon  it, 
and  if  the  jelly  does  not  immediately  loosen,  give  it 
a  smart  tap  with  the  hand. 

Apples  in  Jelly. — Pare  a  dozen  Spitzen- 
burg  apples,  and  core  them  with  an  apple  corer  or 
sharp  fruit-knife,  without  cutting  them  open  ;  put 
them  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  one  or  two  lemons, 
with  water  to  cover  them,  boil  them  very  gently, 
until  they  are  a  fine  color,  and  tender,  then  take 
ihem  carefully  up  with  a  skimmer  ;  take  half  a 
pint  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and 
naif  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  let  it  boil,  cut  the  lemons 
in  thin  slices,  and  put  them  with  the  apples  into 
the  syrup  ;  let  them  boil  very  slowly,  until  the  np- 


358  CANDIED    ORANGE    OR    LEMON    PEEL. 

pies  are  clear,  then  take  them  into  aflat  glnss  di:?h 
lay  a  slice  of  lemon  on  the  top  of  Ccach  npple  ;  boil 
the  sjM'up  until  it  is  thick,  and  pour  it  over  them,  or 
dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  stir  it  into 
the  syrup,  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  tr}^  some  in  a 
saucer,  if  it  is  thick  enough,  strain  it  over  the  ap- 
ple:^, if  not,  boil  it  a  little  longer  first. 

This  requires  but  a  short  time  to  make,  and  is  a 
highly  ornamental  dish  for  dessert  or  supper  table. 

Marmalade. — This  or  jam  may  be  made  of  al- 
most any  ripe  fruit  or  fruits,  boiled  to  a  pulp,  with 
a  litile  water;  ihe  best,  however,  are  peaches, 
quinces,  apples,  oranges, 'and  cranberries,  &c. 

It  is  usually  made,  when  of  ripe  fruits.,  (straw- 
berries or  raspberries,  for  instance,)  by  crushing 
fruit  and  sugar  (half  a  pound  or  three  quarters  tQ  a 
pound  of  fruit,)  together,  and  boiling  it  over  a  gen- 
tle fire,  to  a  jellied  mass  ;  when  done,  put  it  in  glass 
or  white  earthen  ware  small  pots,  and  when  per- 
fectly cold,  cover  as  directed  for  jelly. 

Candied  Oitange  or  Lemon  Peel. — Boil  the 
rind  from  thick  skin  oranges  or  lemons,  in  plenty 
of  water,  until  ihey  are  tender,  and  the  bitterness  is 
out;   change  the  water  once  or  twice,  if  necessary. 

Clarify  half  a  pound  of  sugar  with  hall*  a  cup  of 
water  for  each  pound  of  peel ;  when  it  is  clear,  put 
in  the  peels,  cover  them,  and  boil  them  until  clear, 
and  the  syrup  almost  a  candy  ;  then  take  them  out, 
and  lay  them  on  inverted  sieves  to  dry,  boil  the 
syrup  with  additional  sugar,  then  put  in  the  peels, 
stir  them  about  until  the  sugar  candies  around 
th.em  ;  then  take  them  on  to  a  sieve,  and  set  tliem 
into  a  warm  oven,  or  before  a  fire  ;  when  perfectly 
dry,  pack  them  in  a  wooden  box,  with  tissue  paper 
between. 


PRESERVED    PEACHES.  359 

To  Candy  Fruit. — Afier  peaches,  plumbs, 
citron,  or  quinces  have  been  preserved,  take  it 
from  the  syrup,  drain  it  on  a  sieve  ;  to  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  put  half  a  teacup  of  water,  when  it  is 
dissolved,  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  when  boiling 
hot,  put  in  the  fruit,  stir  it  continunlly,  until  the 
sugar  is  candied  about  it,  then  take  it  upon  a  sieve, 
and  dry  it  in  a  w^arm  oven,  or  before  afire  ;  repeat 
this  two  or  three  limes  if  you  wish. 

To  Preserve  Peaches. — Peaches  for  preserv- 
ing may  be  ripe  but  not  soft ;  cut  thenj  in  halves, 
take  out  the  stones,  and  pare  tliem  neatly  ;  take 
as  many  pounds  of  white  sugnr  as  of  fruit,  put  to 
each  pound  of  sugar  a  teacup  of  water  ;  stir  it  until 
it  is  diss(^lved,  set  il  over  a  moderate  fire,  wlien  it 
is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  peaches,  let  them  boil 
gently  until  a  pure,  clear,  unifi)rm  color;  turn  those 
at  the  bottom  to  the  top,  carefull\'  with  a  skimmer 
several  times  ;  do  not  hurry  them  ;  when  they  are 
clear,  take  each  half  up  with  a  spoon,  and  spread 
the  halves  on  fiat  dishes  to  become  cold  ;  when  all 
are  done,  let  the  syrup  boil  until  it  is  quite  thick, 
pour  it  into  a  large  pitcher,  and  let  it  set  to  cool 
and  settle. 

When  the  peaches  are  cold,  put  them  carefully 
into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them,  leaving 
any  sediment  which  has  settled  at  the  bottom,  or 
strain  the  syrup.  Some  of  the  kernels  from  the 
peach  stones  may  be  put  in  with  the  peaches  whilst 
boilinof. 

Let  them  remain  open  one  night,  then  cover  as 
directed. 

When  brown  sugar  is  used,  it  is  necessary  to 
clarify  it;  put  to  each  pound  of  it  a  teacup  of  w^a- 
ter,  and  for  every  f()ur  pounds  the  white  of  an  egg; 
stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  then  set  it  over 


360  PEACHES,    WHOLR 

the  fire,  continue  to  stir  it  until  it  is  hot,  take  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises  ;  should  it  boil  so  fast  as  to  be 
in  danger  of  running  over,  set  it  off  the  fire  for  a 
few  minutes;  continue  to  boil  and  skim  it  until 
clear  and  only  a  light  foam  rises  ;  it  is  then  ready 
for  the  fruit. 

Peaches  will  keep  perfectly  well  with  seven 
pounds  of  sugar  to  ten  of  fruit;  boil  the  syrup  quite 
thick. 

It  is  best  to  do  but  a  few  at  a  time,  being  less 
fatiguing  and  more  likely  to  be  carefully  done,  that 
they  may  not  be  crushed  in  boihng;  peaches 
should  not  be  boiled  so  much  as  to  lose  their  shape. 

Peaches,  whole. — Punch  the  stones  from  free- 
stone peaches  thus  :  cut  around  the  stem  end,  then 
insert  a  two-pronged  fork  at  the  other  end,  and 
with  it  press  the  stone  out,  then  pare  them  neatly; 
lo  as  many  pounds  of  white  sugar  as  of  peaches 
put  an  equal  number  of  teacups  of  water,  set  it 
over  the  fire,  stir  it  until  Jiot,  then  put  in  the  fruit; 
let  it  boil  veiy  gently  until  they  are  clear,  and  the 
syrup  quite  thick,  then  take  them  up  one  at  a  time 
very  carefully  with  a  large  spoon,  and  lay  them  on 
flat  dishes  to  become  cold  ;  let  the  syrup  boil  a 
little  longer,  then  turn  it  into  a  pitcher  to  cool  and 
settle ;  put  the  peaches  into  whatever  3^ou  intend 
keeping  them,  and  drain  the  syrup  carefully  off 
from  any  sediment  over  the  fruit.  When  perfectly 
cold,  cover  them  as  directed. 

It  is  best  to  do  but   few  pounds  at  a  time. 

Or,  having  stoned  and  pared  the  peaches,  make 
the  syrup,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  them  ;  let 
them  remain  until  the  next  day,  then  put  them  into 
a  preserving-kettle  over  a  gentle  fire,  let  them  boil 
slowly  until  they  are  clear  and  the  syrup  rich  ; 
then  take  them  on  to  flat  dishes  and  set  them  to 


PEACHES,    BRANDIED.  361 

become  cold  ;  crack  some  of  the  stones,  take  the 
meats  from  them,  take  off  the  brown  skin,  and  put 
them  in  the  syrup,  boil  it  quite  thick  ;  let  it  settle 
and  cool  a  little,  put  the  peaches  into  ajar  or  pot, 
pour  the  syrup  over,  leaving  in  the  pitcher  whatevei 
may  have  settled  at  the  bottom.  The  next  day, 
cover  as  directed. 

Cling-stone  peaches  may  be  preserved  whole, 
without  taking  out  the  stones. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  ripe  but  not  soft  cling- 
stones, to  cover  them,  cover  the  dish  with  a  thickly- 
folded  towel  until  they  are  cold,  then  peel  off  the 
skins  ;  prepare  the  syrup,  and  finish  as  directed  for 
whole  peaches. 

Brandy  Peaches. — Choose  fine  ripe  but  not 
soft  cling-stone  peaches,  brush  off  the  down,  put 
them  into  a  tureen  and  pour  boiling  hot  water  over 
them,  cover  them  with  a  thickly-folded  cloth  for 
half  an  hour;  when  they  are  neaily  cold,  pull  off 
the  skin  ;  if  it  will  not  come  off  readily,  pour  over 
more  hot  water;  make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  for  each  pound  of  peaches,  with  a  teacup  of 
water  for  each  pound  of  sugar  ;  when  it  is  boiling 
hot,  put  the  peaches  in,  let  them  boil  for  a  short 
time,  then  take  them  out  to  cool;  boil  the  syrup 
quite  thick,  add  to  it  an  equal  measure  of  white 
brandy,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit ;  when  perfectly 
coldf  secure  it  as  directed  for  preserves. 

Peaches,  Brandied.  —  Take  white  peaches, 
free-stones,  brush  or  wipe  the  down  from  theui, 
stick  each  with  a  large  needle  in  several  places, 
and  put  them  in  cold  water  to  cover  them  ;  when 
all  are  in,  put  the  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire,  and 
keep  it  scalding  hot,  wnihout  boiling,  until  the  fruit 
will    give   to   the   touch ;    then    take   them  with   a 


862  PEACH    JELLY. 

skimmer  carefully  into  cold  water,  and  let  them 
remain  ten  minutes  ;  after  which,  drain  off  the  wa- 
ter, and  cover  them  with  other;  let  them  remain 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  drain  it  off  again, 
and  cover  lastl}^  with  cold  water  ;  after  they  have 
remained  awhile,  drain  off  the  water,  and  put  them 
in  bottles.  If  anv  of  the  fruit  is  in  the  least  de2:ree 
broken  or  bruised,  lay  it  aside,  as  it  would  spoil 
the  rest. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  suo:ar  for  each 
pound  of  peaches.,  put  a  teacup  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  sugar,  and  set  it  over  the  fire;  boil  it  until 
it  is  thick,  then  put  wiih  it  an  equal  measure  of 
white  brandy,  mix  it  together,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fruit. 

Peach  Marmalade. — Peel  ri[)e  peaches,  stone 
them,  and  cut  thetn  small;  weigh  three  (juariers 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  cut  fruit, 
and  a  teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  of  sugar  ; 
set  it  over  tlie  fire  ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it  clear 
then  put  in  the  peaches,  let  them  boil  quite  last ; 
mash  them  fine,  and  let  them  boil  until  tlie  whole 
is  a  jellied  mass,  and  thick,  then  put  it  in  small  jars 
or  tumblers  ;  when  cold,  secure  it  as  directed  for 
jellies.  Half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  a  pound  of  fruit, 
will  make  nice  marmalade. 

>v  Peach  Jelly. — ^Take  the  late  yellow  mealy 
peaches,  pare  them,  and  cut  them  small,  mash  them 
line,  and  put  them  over  the  fire,  with  a  teacup  of  wa- 
ter for  each  pviund  of  fruit ;  Stew  them  for  a  while, 
then  put  them  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  gently  press  and 
wring  all  the  juice  from  them  ;  add  to  each  pint  of 
juice  a  pound  of  loaf  sngar;  when  it  is  dissolved,  set 
it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil,  until  by  cooling  some 
in  a  saucer,  you  find  it  a  nice  jelly.     Less  than  a 


PEACH    PRESERVES.  363 

pound  of  sugar  may  be  used  for  eacli  pound  of 
fruit. 

Marmalade  is  general!}^  preferred  to  the  jelly  of 
peaches. 

Another  way  to  make  peach  jelly,  is  to  stew  the 
peaches  with  a  pint  of  water  for  each  y)ound  of 
fruit;  boil  until  it  is  soft,  then  strain  the  liquor 
frojn  the  peaches  ;  to  each  pint  of  the  liquor,  put 
a  pound  of  loaf  s\igar  and  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass, 
dissolved  ;  or  some  apple  jell3\  Let  it  boil  up  once, 
then  strain  it  into  moulds. 

Apricots. — These  may  be  preserved  in  any  of 
the  several  ways  directed  for  peaches. 

To  Dry  Peaches.  —  Take  ripe  but  not  soft 
peaches,  pare  them,  and  take  out  the  stones,  and 
cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,  or  smaller  ;  spread 
them  on  flat  dishes  or  boards,  and  set  them  where 
the  sun  wall  shine  all  day  upon  them  ;  take  them 
in  at  dusk  or  sunset;  they  should  not  be  put  out 
when  the  weather  is  damp  or  cloudy. 

Peaches  dry  nicely  in  an  oven  after  the  baking 
is  done. 

Turn  peaches  w4)ilst  they  are  drying,  that  they 
may  dry  quickly  and  perfectly,  else  they  will  be- 
come musty.  Keep  them  in  bags  tied  closely,  and 
hung  up. 

To  Dry  Apples. — Apples  may  be  dried  in  the 
same  manner;  pare  off'  every  particle  of  the  skin, 
and  take  out  all  the  core  ;  dry  them  where  no  dust 
may  come  to  them. 

The  best  apples  for  drying,  are  those  too  sour 
to  use  in  an\'  other  way. 

Peach  Preserve. — Pare,  and  cut  in  halves,  ripe 


364  STRAWBERRIES    PRESERVED. 

peaches,  and  diy  them  in  a  hot  sun  or  wartn  oven 
for  two  days  ;  then  weigh  them,  and  make  a  S3n-up 
of  one  pound  of  sugar  for  three  of  fruit  ;  put  a  tea- 
cup of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  four  pounds  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved, 
then  set  it  over  the  fire,  boil  and  skim  until  only  a 
light  foam  rises,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  until  the  syrup  is  thick  and  the  fruit 
clear  ;  put  in  some  of  the  kernels  from  the  stones  ; 
when  it  is  perfectly  cold,  secure  it  as  previously 
directed. 

A  piece  of  paper  to  fit  the  inside  of  the  pot  or 
jar,  dipped  in  thick  sugar  syrup,  and  laid  on  the 
top  of  the  preserve,  before  closing  the  jar,  will  keep 
them  nicely. 

Where  the  fruit  is  very  plenty,  this  is  a  safe  and 
excellent  way  to  preserve  it  either  for  table  or  tarts. 
The  fruit  must  be  cooked  slowly,  and  for  a  long 
time. 

This  receipt  was  obtained  from  one  who  prac- 
ticed it  for  years,  and  found  the  fruit  perfectly  good 
for  one  5"ear.  Preserves  intended  for  keeping, 
should  not  be  disturbed  before  cold  weather. 

Strawberries  Preserved. — Strawberries  for 
bottling  or  preserving,  except  for  jam,  should  be 
ripe,  but  not  in  the  least  soft. 

Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit.  The  sugar  should  be  double  re- 
fined, although  refined  sugar  does  very  well  :  the 
only  difl^erence  is  in  the  color  of  the  preserve,  which 
is  not  so  brilliant  as  when  done  with  other  than 
crushed  or  loaf  sugar. 

To  each  pound  of  sugar  put  a  teacup  of  water: 
set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  is  all  dis- 
solved ;  when  boiling  hot  put  in  the  fruit,  having 
picked  off  every  hull    and    imperfect   berry ;   let 


STRAWBERRY  JAM,  OR  MARMALADE*  366 

them  boll  very  gently  in  a  covered  kettle,  until  by 
cutting  one  open  you  find  it  cooked  throuc^h.  That 
will  be  known  by  its  having  the  same  color  through- 
out.  Take  them  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer, 
and  spread  them  on  fiat  dishes,  and  let  them  re- 
main until  cold;  boil  the  syrup  until  quite  thick  ; 
then  let  it  cool  and  settle  ;  put  the  fruit  into  jars  or 
pots,  and  strain  or  pour  the  syrup  carefully  over, 
leaving  the  sediment,  which  will  be  at  the  bottom 
of  the  pitcher. 

The  next  day,  cover  with  several  papers,  wet 
with  sugar,  boiled  to  candy  ;  set  them  in  a  cool, 
airy  place. 

Strawberries  keep  perfectly  well,  made  with 
seven  pounds  of  sugar  to  ten  of  fruit:  they  should 
be  done  as  directed  above,  and  the  syrup  cooked 
quite  thick. 

A  pint  of  red  currant-juice,  and  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  it,  to  three  pounds  of  strawberries,  make  the 
syrup  very  beautiful. 

Strawberry  Jam,  or  Marmalade. — Pick  ripe 
strawberries  free  from  every  hull  ;  put  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sugar,  for  every  pound  of  fruit ; 
crush  them  together  to  a  smooth  mass ;  then  put  it 
in  a  preserving  kettle,  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  stir  it  with 
a  wooden  or  silver  spoon,  until  it  is  jelly-like  and 
thick  ;  let  it  do  slowly  for  some  time ;  then  try 
some  on  a  plate  ;  if  when  cold  it  is  like  jelly,  it  is 
enough.  Put  it  in  small  jars  or  tumblers,  and  se- 
cure as  directed. 

Currant-juice,  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint, 
to  four  or  five  pounds  of  strawberries,  and  the  re- 
quired quantity  of  sugar,  makes  the  jam  very  nice. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit, 
will  make  very  fine  jam,  or  marmalade,  which  is 


366  TO  STEW  DRIED    RASPBERRIES* 

the  same,  cooked  until  it  is  very  thick,  and  reduced ; 
take  care  that  it  does  not  burn. 

To  Preserve  Strawberries  Whole. — An-, 
other  excellent  vva\%  is  to  make  the  sjM'up  boihng 
hot;  and  having  [)icked  fine  large  strawberries  free 
from  hulls,  (or,  if  preferred,  leave  them  and  half 
an  inch  of  the  stem  on,)  pour  it  over  them  ;  let  it 
remain  until  the  next  day  ;  then  drain  it  ofl',  and 
boil  again  ;  return  it  hot  to  the  fruit;  let  them  re- 
main for  another  night ;  then  put  them  into  the  ket- 
tle, and  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour;  cut  one  in 
two  ;  if  it  is  done  through  take  them  from  the  syrup 
with  a  skimmer,  and  spread  them  on  flat  dishes  to 
cool ;  boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and  rich  ;  then  put 
the  fruit  into  glass  jars;  let  the  S3Tup  cool  and  set- 
tle ;  then  pour  it  carefully  off  from  the  sediment, 
over  the  fruit. 

Strawberries  Stewed  for  Tarts. — Make  a 
syrup  of  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  teacup  of  wa- 
ter; add  a  little  white  of  eggs;  let  it  boil,  and 
skim  it  until  only  a  foam  rises  ;  then  put  in  a  quart 
of  berries,  free  from  stems  and  hulls  ;  let  them  boil 
till  they  look  clear,  and  the  syrup  is  quite  thick. 
Finish  as  directed  for  tarts,  with  fine  puff  paste. 

Raspberries. — These  may  be  preserved  wet, 
bottled,  or  made  jam  or  marmalade  of,  the  same  as 
strawberries. 

Raspberries  are  very  fine,  dried  in  the  sun,  or  a 
warm  oven.  They  are  very  fine  stewed  for  table 
or  tarts. 

To  Stew  Dried  Raspberries. — Have  them 
dried  free  from  dust;  rinse  them  lightly  in  cold 


PRESERVED  CURRANTS.  367 

water;  tlien  put  them  to  stew,  with  water  to  cover 
them,  and  a  teacup  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  dried 
fruit ;  cover  them,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  for 
an  hour  or  more,  until  they  are  swelled  out,  and 
the  syrup  is  rich. 

Cherries  Preserved. — Take  fine  large  cher- 
ries, not  ver}'  ripe  ;  take  ofFthe  stems,  and  take  out 
the  stones  ;  save  whatever  juice  runs  from  them, 
take  an  equal  weight  of  white  sugar ;  make  the 
syrup  of  a  teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  ;  set  it 
over  the  fire,  until  it  is  dissolved,  and  boiling  hot; 
then  put  in  the  juice  and  cherries;  boil  them  gen- 
tly until  clear  throughout ;  take  them  from  the  syrup 
with  a  skimmer,  and  spread  them  on  fiat  dishes  to 
cool ;  let  the  syrup  boil  until  it  is  rich,  and  quite 
thick ;  set  it  to  cool  and  settle  ;  take  the  fruit  into 
jars  or  pots,  and  pour  the  syrup  carefully  over ;  let 
them  remain  open  until  the  next  day  ;  then  cover 
as  directed. 

Sweet  cherries  are  improved  by  the  addition  of 
a  pint  of  red  currant-juice,  and  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  it,  for  lour  or  five  pounds  of  cherries. 

To  Dry  Cherries. — Take  the  stems  and  stones 
from  ripe  cherries  ;  spread  them  on  flat  dishes,  and 
dry  them  in  a  hot  sun,  or  w^arm  oven;  pour  what- 
ever juice  may  have  run  from  them,  a  little  at  a 
time,  over  them  ;  stir  them  about,  that  they  may 
dry  evenly.  When  they  are  perfectly  dry,  line 
boxes  or  jars  with  white  paper,  and  pack  them 
close  in  layers  ;  strew  a  little  brown  sugar,  and 
fold  the  paper  over,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place, 
or  put  them  in  muslin  bags,  and  hang  them  in  an 
airy  place. 

Currants  Preserved. — Take   ripe   curiants. 


368  CURRANT  JELLY, 

free  from  stems  ;  weigh  them,  and  take  the  same 
weight  of  sugar;  put  a  teacup  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  it ;  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  hot  and  clear  ; 
then  turn  it  over  the  fruit ;  let  it  remain  one  night; 
then  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  boil  gently,  until  they 
are  cooked  and  clear  ;  take  them  into  the  jars  or 
pots  with  a  skimmer  ;  boil  the  syrup  until  rich  and 
thick  ;  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

Currants  may  be  preserved  with  ten  pounds  of 
fruit  to  seven  of  sugar.  Take  the  stems  from  seven 
pounds  of  the  currants,  and  crush  and  press  the 
juice  from  the  remaining  three  pounds  ;  put  them 
into  the  hot  syrup,  and  boil  until  thick  and  rich  ; 
put  it  in  pots  or  jars,  and  the  next  day  secure  as 
•  directed. 

Currant  Jam. — Pick  the  currants  free  from 
stems  ;  weigh  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  each  pound  of  fruit ;  strain  the  juice  from  lialf 
of  them  ;  then  crush  the  remainder  and  the  sugar 
together,  and  put  them  with  the  juice  into  a  bright 
brass  or  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  until  it  is  a  smooth 
jellied  mass  ;  have  a  moderate  fire,  that  it  may  not 
burn  the  preserve. 

V  Currant  Jelly. — Pick  fine  red  but  not  long 
ripe  currants  from  the  stems  ;  bruise  them,  and 
stram  the  juice  from  a  quart  at  a  time,  through  a 
thin  mushn  ;  wring  it  gently,  to  get  all  the  liquid  ; 
put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  all  dissolved  ;  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  ;  let  it  become  hot,  and  b(5tl  for  fifteen 
minutes  ;  then  try  it  by  taking  a  spoonful  into  a 
saucer  :  when  cold,  if  it  is  not  quite  firm  enough, 
boil  it  for  a  few  minutes  longer. 

Or  pick  the  fruit  from  stems  ;  weigh  it,  and  put 
it  into  a  stone  pot ;  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  hoi  water, 


BARBERRIES.  369 

reaching  nearly  to  the  top  ;  let  it  boil  until  the  fruit 
is  hot  through  ;  then  crush  them,  and  strain  the 
juice  from  them.  Put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  it ;  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  l)oil  for 
fifteen  minutes  ;  try  some  in  a  saucer.  Wlien  the 
jelly  is  thick  enough,  strain  it  into  small  white  jars, 
or  glass  tumblers  ;  when  cold,  cover  with  tissue 
paper,  as  directed.  Glass  should  be  tempered,  by 
keeping  it  in  warm  w^ater  for  a  short  time  before 
pouring  any  hot  liquid  inlo  it,  otherwise  it  w^ill  crack. 

Blackberries. — Preserve  these  as  straw^berries 
or  currants,  either  liquid  or  jam,  or  jelly.  Black- 
berry jelly  or  jam  is  an  excellent  medicine  in  sum- 
^mer  complaint  or  d^^sentery  ;  to  make  it,  crush  a 
quart  of  fully  ripe  blackberries  with  a  pound  of  the 
best  loaf-sugar,  put  it  over  a  gentle  fire  and  cook 
it  until  thick,  then  put  to  it  a  gill  of  the  best  fourth- 
proof  brandy,  stir  it  awhile  over  the  fire,  then  put 
it  in  pots. 

Blackberry  Syrup. — Make  a  simple  syrup  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water,  boil  it  until 
it  is  rich  and  thick,  then  add  to  it  as  many  pints  ol 
the  expressed  juice  of  ripe  blackberries  as  there  are 
pounds  of  sugar  ;  put  half  a  nutmeg  grated  to  each 
quart  of  the  syrup  ;  let  it  boil  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  to  it  half  a  gill  of  fourth-proof 
brandy  for  each  quart  of  syrup,  set  it  to  become 
cold,  then  bottle  it  for  use.  A  tablespoonful  for  a 
child  or  a  wineglass  for  an  adult  is  a  dose. 

Barberries. — Preserve  them  the  same  as  cur- 
ranis  ;  or  they  may  be  preserved  in  molasses.    Pick 
ihem  from  the  stems,  and  put  them  into  a  jug  or  jar 
with    molasses   to   cover   them.     The    acid    soon 
24  P* 


370  PLUMS. 

destroys  all  taste  of  molassesi     The   small  winter 
or  frost  grape  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

Gooseberries  Preserved. — Take  the  blossom 
from  the  end  and  take  off  the  stems  ;  finish  as 
directed  for  strawberries  or  currants. 

To  Keep  Red  Gooseberries. — Pick  goose- 
berries when  fally  ripe,  and  for  each  quart,  take 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water, 
boil  together  until  quite  a  syrup,  then  put  in  the  fruit 
and  continue  to  boil  gently  for  fifteen  minutes  ; 
then  put  them  into  small  stone  jars  ;  when  cold 
cover  them  close  ;  keep  them  for  making  tarts  or 
pies. 

Currant  Jelly  without  Cooking. — Press  the 
juice  from  the  currants  and  strain  it ;  to  every  pint 
put  a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  mix  them  together 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  put  it  in  jars,  seal 
them  and  expose  them  to  a  hot  sun  for  two  or  three 
days. 

Plums. — There  are  several  varieties  of  plums. 
The  richest  purple  plum  for  preservij:jg  is  the 
damson  ;  there  are  of  these  large  and  small,  the 
larger  are  called  sweet  dnmsons,  the  small  ones 
are  very  rich  flavored.  The  great  difficulty  in 
preserving  plums  is  that  the  skins  crack  and  the 
fruit  comes  to  pieces  ;  the  rule  here  laid  down  for 
preserving  them  obviates  thnt  difficult^^ 

Purple  gnges  unless  proper!}^  preserved  will  turn 
to  juice  and  skins:  and  the  large  horse  plum  (as 
it  is  generally  known)  comes  completel}^  to  pieces  in 
ordinary  modes  of  preserving;  the  one  recommended 
herein  will  keep  them  whole,  full  and  rich. 


TO  PRESERVE  PLUMS  WITHOUT  THE  SKINS.     371 

To  Preserve  Purple  Plums. — Make  a  syrup 
of  clean  brown  sugar,  clarify  it  as  directed  in  these 
receipts ;  when  perfectly  clear  and  boiling  hot.  pour 
it  over  the  plums  having  picked  out  all  unsound 
ones,  and  stems;  let  them  remain  in  the  syru[)  two 
days,  then  drain  it  off,  make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it 
and  pour  it  over  again,  let  ihem  remain  in  the  syrup 
two  days  then  drain  it  off*;  make  it  boiling  hot, 
skim  it  and  pour  it  over  again  ;  let  them  remain 
another  day  or  two,  then  put  them  in  a  preserving 
kettle  over  the  fire,  and  simmer  gently  until  the 
syrup  is  reduced  and  thick  or  rich.  One  pound  of 
sugar  for  each  pound  of  plums. 

Small  damsons  are  very  fine,  preserved  as 
cherries  or  anv  other  ripe  fruit  ;  clarity  the  syrup 
and  when  boiling  hot  put  in  the  plums,  let  them 
boil  very  gently  until  they  are  cooked  antl  the  syrup 
rich.  Put  them  in  pots  or  jars  ;  the  next  day 
secure  as  directed. 

To  Preserve  Plums  without  the  Skins. — 
Pour  boilinsf  water  over  lar2:e  ecfsf  or  masfnum 
bonum  plums,  cover  them  until  it  iscold,  then  pull 
off*  the  skins. 

Make  a  S3^rup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  teacup 
of  water  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  make  it  boiling 
hot,  and  pour  it  over,  let  them  remain  for  a  day  or 
two,  then  drain  it  off  and  boil  again,  skim  it 
clear  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  plums,  let  them 
remain  until  the  next  day,  then  put  them  over 
the  fire  in  the  syrup,  boil  them  very  gently  until 
clear;  take  them  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer 
into  the  pots  or  jars;  boil  the  syrup  until  rich  and 
thick,  take  off' any  scum  which  may  rise,  then  let  it 
cool  and  settle,  and  pour  it  over  the  plums.  If 
brown  sugar  is  used,  which  is  quite  as  good  except 
for  green  gages,  clarify  it  as  directed. 


372         TO  BRANDY  GREEN  GAGES, 

Green  Gages. — These  may  be  greened  as 
dire<fted  fororeening  fruit;  when  tnken  out  smooth 
the  skin^,  make  the  s\^rup  boiliiiQr  hot  and  pour  it 
over  until  the  next  day  or  two,  then  put  them  in  the 
syrup  over  the  fire  and  boil  verv  slowlv  until  they 
look  clear,  and  the  syrup  is  rich  nnd  thicrk  ;  then 
take  them  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer,  spread 
ihem  on  flat  dishes  to  cool,  boil  the  syrup  quite  fast, 
skim  it  clear,  then  let  it  settle  and  cool  ;  put  the 
plums  into  jars  an<l  pour  the  syrup  over,  leaving 
any  sediment  which  ma}^  remain  at  the  bottom. 

Plums  tn  Braxdv. — Take  twelve  pounds  of 
magnum  bonum  plums  which  are  turned  in  color, 
but  not  ripe  ;  stick  each  one  several  limes  with  a 
coarse  needle,  put  them  in  cold  water  and  set  them 
over  the  fire  ;  when  the  water  begins  to  boil  and 
the  plums  rise,  take  ihem  carefully  with  a  skitnmer 
into  a  pan  of  cold  water  ;  to  three  pounds  of  wdiite 
sugar  put  three  teacups  of  water,  when  it  is  boiling 
hot,  put  it  over  the  fruit,  let  it  remain  until  the  next 
day,  put  the  plums  and  syrup  in  a  preserving  kettle 
over  the  fire,  boil  very  gently  that  the  skins  may 
not  break  ;  when  they  are  clear  take  them  on  flat 
plates  ;  put  to  the  syrup  an  equal  measure  of  white 
brandy,  stir  it  until  mixed;  put  the  plums  into  a 
glass  jar  and  pour  the  s\'rup  over,  when  cold  put  a 
tissue  paper  and  close  fitting  tin  cover  over. 

To  Brandy  Green  Gages. — Make  a  syrup  of 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  WMth 
a  teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  of  sugar,  when 
boiling  hot  pour  it  over  the  plums,  let  them  remain 
for  a  day  or  two,  then  boil  them  in  the  SN'rup  until 
they  are  clear,  very  slowly,  that  they  may  not 
break;  then  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer;  boil 
the   syrup   fast   for  a  few   minutes,  skim   it;  let  it 


JAM  OR  GREEN  aAGES.  3T3 

cool  and  settle,  then  mix  with  it  an  equal  measure 
of  white  brandy  and  pour  it  over  the  plums. 

Or,  green  them  as  directed,  make  the  syrup  as 
above  directed,  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  them,  let 
them  remain  one  night,  then  put  them  over  the  fire, 
let  them  boil  up  once,  take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer; boil  the  syrup  thick,  mix  with  it  an  equal 
measure  of  white  brandy,  put  the  fruit  in  glass 
jars  and  pour  over  syrup  to  cover  it. 

To  Keep  Damsons. — Put  them  in  small  stone 
jars  or  wide  mouth-glass  bottles,  and  set  them  up 
to  their  necks  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  ;  set  it  over 
the  fire  to  become  boiling  hot,  then  take  it  off,  and 
let  the  bottles  remain  until  the  water  is  cold  ;  the 
next  day  fill  the  bottles  with  cold  water  and  cork 
and  seal  them.  These  may  be  used  the  same 
as  fresh  fruit.  Green  gages  may  be  done  in  this 
way. 

To  Preserve  Damsons  a  second  avay. — Put 
a  quart  of  damsons  into  ajar  with  a  pound  of  sugar 
strewed  between  them  ;  set  the  jar  in  a  warm 
oven,  or  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  set  it 
over  the  fire  for  an  hour,  then  take  it  out,  set  it  to 
become  cold,  drain  the  juice  oft^,  boil  it  until  it  is 
thick,  then  pour  it  over  the  plums  ;  when  cold, 
cover  as  directed  for  preserves. 

Jam  of  Green  Gages. — Put  ripe  green  gages 
into  a  kettle  with  very  little  water,  and  let  them 
stew  until  soft,  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve  or 
colander,  and  to  every  pint  of  pulp,  put  a  pound  of 
white  sugar,  powdered  fine,  then  put  it  in  a  pre- 
serving  kettle  over  the  fire,  stir  it  until  the  whole  is 
of  the  consistence  of  jelly,  then  take  it  off;  put  the 
marmalade  in  small  jars  or  tumblers,  and  cover  as 


374  TO  PRESERVE  PEARS. 

directed  for  jelly.     Any  sort  of  plums  may  be  done 
in  this  manner. 

To  Dry  Plums. — Split  ripe  plums,  take  the 
intones  from  them  and  lay  them  on  plates  or  sieves 
to  drym  a  warm  oven  or  hot  sun  ;  take  them  in  at 
sunset  and  do  not  put  them  out  again  until  the  sun 
will  be  upon  them  ;  turn  them  that  they  may  be 
done  evenly  ;  when  perfectly  dry,  pack  them  in 
jars  or  boxes,  lined  with  paper,  or  keep  them  in 
bags  ;  hang  them  in  an  airy  place. 

Pears  Dried. — Prepare,  and  dry  them  the 
same  as  apples. 

Pears  in  Brandy. — Take  fine  rich,  juicy,  but 
not  very  ripe  pears,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan 
with  cold  water  to  cover  them  ;  set  them  over  a 
gentle  fire  and  simmer  them  until  they  will  yield 
to  the  pressure  of  your  linger,  then  take  them  into 
cold  water;  pare  them  with  the  greatest  care,  so 
that  not  a  single  defect  may  remain  ;  make  a  syrup 
of  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit,  and  a  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar  ;  when  the  syrup  is  clear  and  boiling  hot  put 
in  the  pears,  boil  them  gently  until  they  are  done 
through  and  clear,  and  the  syrup  is  rich  ;  now  take 
ihem  with  a  skimmer  into  glass  jars  ;  boil  the 
syrup  thick,  then  mix  with  it  a  gill  of  white  brandy 
to  each  pint,  pour  it  over  the  fruit  and  when  cold 
put  paper  and  a  close  fitting  cover  over. 

To  Preserve  Pears. — Take  small  rich  fair 
fruit,  as  soon  as  the  pips  are  black,  set  them  over 
the  fire  in  a  kettle,  with  water  to  cover  them  ;  let 
them  simmer  until  they  will  yield  to  the  pressure  of 
the  finger,  then  with  a  skimmer  take  them  into  cold 


TO  BAKE  PEARS.  375 

water,  pare  them  neatly,  leaviriG:  on  a  little  of  the 
stem,  and  the  blossom  end  ;  pierce  them  at  the 
blossom  end  to  the  core,  then  make  a  syrnp  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit;  when  it  is 
boiling  hot  pour  it  over  the  pears,  and  let  it  stand 
until  the  next  day  ;  when  drain  it  off,  make  it  boil- 
ing hot  and  again  pour  it  over;  after  a  da}^  or  tw^o 
put  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
gently  until  it  is  clear,  then  take  it  into  the  jars  or 
spread  it  on  dishes,  boil  the  syrup  thick,  then  put  it 
and  the  fruit  in  jars. 

Large  Bell  Pears. — May  be  preserved  the 
same  as  quinces  or  citron. 

Pear  Marmalade. — To  six  pounds  of  small 
pears,  take  four  pounds  of  sugar;  put  the  pears 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  cold  water,  cover  it, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  until  the  fruit  is  soft,  then 
take  them  into  cold  water  ;  pare,  quarter,  and  cor^ 
them  ;  put  to  them  three  teacups  of  water,  set  them 
over  the  fire  ;  roll  the  sugar  fine,  mash  the  fruit  fine 
and  smooth,  put  the  sugar  to  it,  sdr  it  well  together 
until  it  is  thick  like  jelly,  then  put  it  in  tumblers  or 
jars,  and  when  cold,  secure  it  as  jelly. 

To  Stew  Pears. — Pare  them  and  cut  them  in 
halves,  if  large,  or  leave  them  w^hole,  if  small  ;  put 
them  in  a  stew'pan  w^irh  very  little  water,  cover 
them  and  let  them  stew  till  tender,  'then  add  a  pint 
bowl  of  brown  sugar  to  quarter  of  a  peck  of  pears^ 
let  them  stew  until  the  syrup  is  rich  ;  a  lemou 
boiled  with  the  pears  and  sliced  tliin  wlien  the  sugar 
is  put  in,  improves  both  flavor  and  color  ;  or  a  wine- 
glass of  red  wdne  may  be  used  instead. 

To  Bake   Pears. — Wash  half  a   peck   of  tart 


376  TO  STEW  APPLES. 

pears,  cut  the  stetns  so  as  to  leave  only  an  inch 
length  ;  put  them  in  an  iron  pot  over  the  fire  with 
half  a  pint  of  water  and  a  pint  of  molasses  to  them  ; 
cover  the  pot  or  kettle  and  let  them  boil  rathei 
gently  until  the  pears  are  soft  and  the  syrup  rich, 
almost  like  candy  ;  take  care  not  to  scorch  it. 

To  Stew  Quinces. — Pare  and  cut  them  in 
quarters,  tike  out  the  cores,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  half  enough  water  to  cover  them,  cover 
the  pan,  and  let  them  boil  till  tender,  add  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  cut  quinces,  cover 
them,  and  let  them  stew  until  the  syrup  is  rich  and 
thick. 

Or,  pare,  core,  and  cut  the  quinces,  put  the  skins 
and  cores  in  the  bottom  of  a  slewpan  or  preserving 
kettle,  put  in  the  cut  quinces  and  enough  water  to 
half  cover  them  ;  cover  the  vessel  and  let  them 
stew  till  tender,  il)en  take  them  up,  bruise  the 
skins  and  cores,  and  strain  the  water  from  them  ; 
take  for  each  pound  of  quinces  (before  they  were 
boiled)  half  a  pint  of  the  strained  water,  and  half 
a  pound  of  sugar  boiled  to  a  nice  syrup  ;  then  put 
in  the  boiled  quinces  and  boil  until  they  are  sweet 
and  rich. 

To  Stew  Peaches. — Take  small  under-ripe 
peaches,  pare  them  neatly,  and  put  them  into  a 
kettle  with  water  nearly  to  cover  them,  and  set 
them  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  to  each  quart  of  peaches, 
put  half  pound  of  sugar;  let  them  stew  until  the 
syrup  is  rich.     Serve  cold  for  tea  or  dessert. 

To  Stew  Apples. — Pare  ripe  tart  apples,  and 
cut  them  in  quarters  or  smaller;  core  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  teacup  of  water 
vind  the  same  of  sugar  to  a  quart  or  more  of  cut 


CANDIED    TOMATOES.  377 

apples ;  then  set  them  over  the  fire,  let  them  sim- 
mer gently  for  nearly  an  hour  ;  turn  them  into  a 
flat  dish,  and  set  them  to  cool.  Grate  half  a  nut- 
meg over,  if  liked. 

Small  apples  may  be  stewed  in  this  way  with- 
out cutting  them  ;  pare  them,  and  core  them  with 
a  small  knife  or  apple-corer  ;  a  lemon  boiled,  and 
sliced  thin,  may  be  stewed  with  them ;  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  may  be  put  to  them 
whilst  stewing 

Tomatoes  Preserved. — Take  the  small  plum- 
shaped  yellow  or  red  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  and  peel  off  the  skins;  make  the  syrup 
of  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  and  a  teacup  of  water 
to  each  pound,  set  it  over  the  fire ;  when  all  is  dis- 
solved, and  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  let  them 
boil  very  gendy ;  boil  one  or  two  lemons  in  water 
until  the  peels  are  tender,  then  cut  them  in  slices^ 
and  put  them  with  the  tomatoes  in  the  syrup ;  let 
ihem  boil  until  the  fruit  is  clear  throughout,  and 
the  syrup  rich  ;  then  take  the  tomatoes  on  to  flat 
dishes,  and  set  them  to  become  cold  ;  boil  the 
syrup  until  thick  and  rich,  then  set  it  by  to  cool 
and  settle;  put  the  fruit  into  a  jar  or  pots,  and 
pour  the  syrup  free  from  any  sediment  over  them, 
or  the  syrup  may  be  strained. 

Candied  Tomatoes. — -Choose  the  fig  or  plum- 
shaped  tomato  ;  for  every  four  pounds  of  tomatoes 
clarify  one  pound  of  sugar ;  pour  boiling  water 
over  the  tomatoes,  cover  them  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  peel  them  ;  when  the  syrup  is  boiling  hot, 
put  them  in,  \et  them  simmer  very  slowly  until 
they  look  clear,  then  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer 
on  to  a  sieve ;  set  them  where  they  may  become 
cold  ;  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  quite  thick,  then  put 


378  TO    PRESERVE    GRAPES. 

the  tomatoes  in  again,  simmer  them  slowly  for  nearly 
an  hour,  then  tnke  them  out,  and  lay  ihem  on 
sieves  again  ;  boil  the  syrup  an  hour  longer,  then 
put  in  the  tomatoes  for  the  last  time,  let  them  re- 
main  for  half  an  hour,  simmering,  then  take  theru 
out,  flatten  them,  and  dry  them  in  a  hot  sun  or  m 
a  warm  oven  ;  when  perfectly  dry,  pack  them  in 
glass  jars.  One  or  two  lemons  boiled  tender,  tlien 
sliced,  and  preserved  with  tomatoes,  imparts  a  fine 
flavor. 

Tomato  Jam. — Take  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  them. 
and  take  out  all  the  seeds  ;  put  them  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  wn'th  half  a  pound  of  su^ar  for  each 
pound  of  prepared  tomatoes;  boil  one  or  two  lemons 
soft,  then  pound  them  fine  ;  take  out  the  pips,  and 
put  them  to  the  totnatoes,  and  boil  slowly;  mash 
them  to  a  smooth  mass  ;  continue  to  sriv  them  until 
smooth  and  thick,  tlien  put  it  in  jars  or  tumblers. 

Grapes. — These  should  be  picked  from  the  stem 
when  nearly  ripe  ;  take  suG:ar,  pound  for  pound, 
with  a  teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  of  sugar  ; 
clarify  it,  (unless  white  sugar  is  used,)  make  it 
boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  ;  let  it  remain 
for  a  day  or  two;  then  drain  itofl^;  make  it  boiling 
hot;  skim  it,  and  pour  it  over  ngnin  ;  after  a  dny 
or  two,  put  fruit  and  S3^rup  over  the  fire  ;  let  it  boil 
gently  until  clear,  und  the  syrup  thick  ;  then  take 
the  grypes  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer;  l)oil  the 
syrup  sometime  longer  ;  then  set  it  to  cool  and  set- 
tle, and  strain  it  over  the  iruit. 

A  NEW  Way  to  Preserve  Grapes. — Pick  ripe 
grapes  froin  the  stems  ;  take  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar;  put  to  each  pound  a  teacup  of  water,  and 
make    it  boiling  hot;    squeeze  the   pulp   from  the 


GRAPES  PRESERVED.  379 

skins,  save  them,  and  put  the  inside  or  pulp  to  the 
syrup,  having  bruised  ihem,  to  get  the  juice  ;  let 
them  boil  up  once  or  twice  ;  then  strain  and  squeeze 
it  through  a  coarse  cloth  ;  this  will  take  out  the 
seeds;  put  in  the  skins,  and  return  it  to  the  fire; 
they  will  fill  up  after  one  or  two  boils;  when  the 
syrup  is  sufficiently  thick  and  rich,  turn  them  into 
an  earthen  vessel  to  cool  ;  put  them  into  ghiss  jars  ; 
when  perfectly  cold,  secure  them  as  directed. 

M^  Grape  Jelly. — Take  ripe  grapes,  press  them 
irom  the  skins  ;  then  put  them  in  a  coarse  clolh, 
and  press  out  all  the  juice  ;  put  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  finish  the  same  as 
currant  jelly. 

Grapes  Dried.' — -Take  fine,  large,  ripe  grapes; 
place  them  on  sieves  or  hurdles,  and  set  them  in  a 
warm  oven,  turning  them  carefully  and  frequently, 
until  they  are  perfectly  dry. 

Or  dry  them  in  the  sun  ;  take  them  in  at  sunset; 
turn  them  every  day,  until  they  are  nicely  dry. 

Line  wooden  feoxes  with  pnper;  pack  the  bunches 
carefully  in  layers,  strew  a  little  sugar  between  and 
over  them ;  when  the  box  is  full,  cover  or  fold  pa- 
per over,  and  close  the  box  with  a  wooden  cover. 

Grapes  Preserved  in  Bunches. — Take  full 
clusters  of  grapes,  not  fully  ripe  ;  trim  the  stems 
neatly  ;  make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a 
tea'^up  of  water  for  each  pound  of  grapes  ;  make  il 
boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  over  them  ;  let  tliem  remain 
for  a  day  or  two  ;  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it 
aijairi,  skim  it,  and  pour  it  over;  after  a  day  or 
two,  put  grapes  and  syrup  over  the  fire  ;  boil  very 
gently,  until  they  are  clear,  and  the  syrup  rich  ; 
take  them  up  carefully  ;  lay  them  on  plates  to  be- 


380  TO   PRESERVE    GINGER    ROOTS. 

come  cold  ;  boil  the  syrup  for  nearly  an  hour  ;  skim 
it,  let  it  cool  and  settle  ;  put  the  grapes  m  glass 
jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 

To  Dry  Grapes  in  Clusters. — Take  preserves 
from  the  syrup,  dip  thern  in  boihng  water,  to  free 
them  from  what  may  be  hanging  to  them  ;  then 
dry  them  in  the  sun,  or  a  w^arm  oven,  turning  every 
day,  until  perfectly  dry  :  then  flatten  them,  and 
pack  them  in  boxes. 

To  Preserve  Green  Grapes. — Take  the  lar- 
gest full  sized  green  grapes,  take  the  seeds  from 
them  h}'^  means  of  a  large  needle  ;  make  a  syrup 
of  as  many  pounds  of  sugar,  and  pour  it  hot  oveV 
them  ;  let  thern  remain  a  day  or  two,  then  boil 
ihem  in  the  syrup  till  clear ;  boil  the  syrup  thick  ; 
then  put  the  preserve  in  pots.  When  cold,  cover 
as  directed. 

To  Stew  Prunes. — Wash  or  rinse  prunes,  as 
may  be  necessary,  in  cold  water  ;  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  water  to  cover  thern  :  put  over  them 
a  teacup  of  clean  brown  sugar,  for  each  pound  of 
fruit ;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  boil  rather  slowly, 
until  the  syrup  is  thick  and  rich. 

To  Preserve  Green  Ginger  Roots. — Boil  the 
roots  in  plenty  of  water,  until  they  may  be  pared 
neatly;  then  put  them  in  fresh  water;  change  it 
once  or  twice,  putting  on  boiling  water  each  time  ; 
let  them  boil  until  tender ;  then  take  them  into  cold 
water.  Clarify  four  f.ounds  of  sugar  for  three  and 
a  half  of  ginger;  take  the  ginger  from  the  water, 
and  wipe  it  dry  ;  dissolve  the  sugar  with  a  teacup 
of  water  to  each  pound  ;  put  it  over  the  ginger,  and 
let  it  remain  tor  several  days;    then  drain  it   off, 


TO  PRESERVE  FRUIT.  381 

boll  and  skim  it;  let  it  become  cold;  then  pour  it 
over  the  ginger;  let  it  remain  three  or  four  days; 
then  boil  it  again,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  ginger ; 
repeat  the  boiling  and  skimming,  until  the  ginger 
is  penetrated  with  the  sugar,  and  the  syrup  becomes 
thick  and  clear. 

Almacks.  —  Take  four  dozen  ripe  plums,  split 
them  ;  two  dozen  apples,  pared  and  cored,  and  the 
same  number  of  pears,  ditto.  ;  stew  them  without 
water ;  when  well  blended,  take  out  the  plum 
stones,  and  stir  in  three  pounds  of  clean  sugar  ; 
boil  them  gently,  stirring  them  together,  for  one 
hour;  then  spread  it  on  Hat  dishes,  and  dry  them 
in  the  sun,  or  a  cool  oven.  When  nearly  dry,  mark 
it  in  square  cakes. 

m  Transparent  Marmalade. — Take  some  Sicily 
oranges,  cut  them  in  quarters,  take  out  the  pulp, 
put  it  into  a  basin,  take  out  all  the  seeds,  and  skin; 
put  the  peels  into  a  little  salt  and  water,  and  leave 
them  to  soak  all  night,  then  boil  them  in  a  good 
quantity  of  spring  water  until  they  are  tender;  cut 
them  in  shreds,  and  put  them  to  the  pulp  ;  to  every 
pint  of  it  put  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  made  fine, 
and  boil  them  gentl}^  together  for  twenty  minutes; 
if  it  is  not  perfectly  clear,  simmer  it  for  some 
minutes  longer,  stirring  it  gently  all  the  time,  when 
cold;  put  it  in  jelly  glasses,  and  secure  it  as  direct- 
ed for  jelly. 

To  Preserve  Fruit,  for  Tarts  or  Common 
Use, — Cherries,  any  sort  of  plums  or  apples,  may 
be  preserved  for  the  above  mentioned  uses,  in  the 
folio  win  2:  manner  : 

Pit  the  fruit,  gathered  when  ripe,  put  them  in 
small  jars,  strew  over  each,  six  ounces  of  sugar  for 


382  TO    CANDY    NECTARINES. 

every  pound  of  fruit,  tie  over  each  jar  two  bladders, 
or  thick  papers,  tie  each  one  separately;  put  them 
up  to  the  neck  in  a  vessel  of  water,  and  let  them 
boil  gently  for  three  hours,  then  set  it  off^;  let  them 
remain  in  the  water  until  cohl.  Keep  them  in  a 
dr}^  cool  place. 

MuLBEERY  Preserved. — Take  mulberries 
when  fully  ripe,  but  not  soil,  weigh  three  quaters 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of  picked  berries  : 
finish  as  directed  for  strawberries. 

Mulberry  Syrup. — Put  some  mulberries  into 
a  jug,  tie  a  paper  over  it,  and  then  put  it  up  to  the 
neck  in  a  kettle  of  water,  let  it  boil  ;  as  the  licpjor 
rises  from  the  mulberries,  drain  it  off;  to  each  pint 
of  it  put  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  or  brown  sugar 
ciciritied  i  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  boil  until 
about  the  consistence  of  molasses,  then  skim  it,  and 
take  it  off*;  when  cold,  boule  it. 

Nectarines  Preserved.  — Take  nectarines 
when  nearly  ripe,  pare  them,  and  cut  them  iu 
halve.-s,  and  simmer  them  in  boihng  water,  until 
they  rise  to  the  surface,  then  drain  them  ;  clarify 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound 
of  fruit,  put  it  in,  and  let  them  boil  until  nearly 
clear,  then  set  them  away  in  the  syrup;  the  next 
day  drain  the  S3'rup  from  them,  boil  it  until  quite 
thick,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  short 
lime;  drain  off'the  syrup,  and  repeat  the  boiling  on 
the  following  day,  then  put  it  in  a  tureen,  and  let  it 
stand  for  two  days,  then  put  the  preserves  in  pots, 
and  secure  as  directed. 

To  Candy    Nectarines. — Split  the   fruit,  and 
take  out  the  stones,  clarify  half  their  weight  of  sugar, 


CHERRY    WATER.  383 

and  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  gently  until  clear,  take 
off  the  light  scum,  take  them  with  a  skimmer  on 
flat  dishes,  and  cover  them  with,  until  the  next  day, 
then  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  rather  thick,  put  in  the 
fruit,  and  let  them  boil  until  fairly  hot  through,  take 
them  again  on  to  flat  dishes,  with  a  skimmer,  as 
free  from  syrup  as  possible,  let  them  remain  one 
night,  again  boil  the  syrup,  and  put  in  the  fruit  for 
a  short  time;  spread  it  out  to  dry,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  ;  dust  fine  white  sugar  over,  and  turn 
them  until  they  are  so. 

Peaches,  large  egg  plums,  and  apricots,  may  be 
done  in  this  way. 

Nectarines, — May  be  bottled  as  directed  foi 
fruits. 

Capillaire. — Take  fourteen  pounds  of  sugar, 
break  six  eggs  in,  with  the  shells,  stir  into  it  grad- 
ually three  quarts  of  water,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
boil  it,  and  take  off*  the  scum  until  only  a  light  froth 
rises,  add  to  it  a  gill  of  orange  flower  water,  or  half 
as  much  lemon  extract,  with  a  little  vanilla,  then 
strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  when  cold,  bottle 
it ;  cork  it  tight  to  keep. 

A  wine-glass  of  this  put  to  a  tumbler  of  ice  water, 
is  much  liked,  and  very  refreshing. 

Sliced  lemon  or  pine-apple,  or  crushed  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  or  ripe  currants,  may  be  added 
to  it ;  also  a  glass  of  wine,  brandy,  or  rum. 

Cherry  Water. — Put  a  wine-glass  of  Capil- 
laire into  a  tumbler,  pound  a  dozen  fine  large  sour 
cherries  in  a  mortar,  so  as  to  break  the  kernels, 
then  put  ihem  in  the  tumbler,  two-thirds  fill  it  with 
ice  water,  and  serve  with  sponge  or  wine  cakes; 


384  LEMON    BRANDY. 

or  instead  of  ice  water,  half  fill  the  tumbler  with 
chipped  ice,  then  put  in  water. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Put  a  quart  of  the  best 
vinegar  into  a  bottle,  put  in  picked  raspberries,  as 
many  as  the  bottle  will  contain,  put  in  a  cork,  and 
let  it  remain  for  a  week,  then  strain  the  liquor 
through  a  fine  muslin,  press  all  the  juice  from  the 
berries,  then  measure  it ;  to  each  pint  put  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  white  fine  sugar,  boil  it  until 
the  syrup  is  rich,  (keep  it  covered  whilst  boiling,) 
when  cold  bottle  it,  flavor  ice  water  with  it,  and 
serve  with  small  cakes. 

Roasted  Figs. — These  are  both  palatable  and 
nutritious  for  persons  in  delicate  health.  Take 
fine  large  fresh  figs,  put  them  on  bird  spits,  and 
roast  them  before  the  fire,  or  broil  them  over  bright 
coals,  on  a  gridiron  ;  turn  them  when  half  done. 

Milk  Punch. — Half  fill  a  pint  tumbler  with  fine- 
[y  chipped  ice,  add  to  it  a  wine-glass  of  gin,  rum, 
or  brandy,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  white  sugar, 
stir  it  around,  then  fill  it  up  with  milk  ;  grate  nut- 
meg over,  and  serve. 

Or  put  together  of  milk  and  gin,  or  rum  or  brandy, 
a  wine-glass  each,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
white  sugar,  stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then 
fill  it  up  with  milk  ;  grate  nutmeg  over,  and  serve 
with  small  cakes. 

Lemon  Brandy. — Put  the  yellow  rind  of  two 
fine  fresh  lemons,  into  a  bottle  of  brandy,  after  two 
davs  strain  it;  boil  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  in  a 
teacup  of  water,  to  a  nice  syrup,  let  it  become  cold, 
tiifii  mix  it  with  the  brandy. 


RIPE    PEACHES,  &C.  386 

Strawberry  Sherbet. — Take  one  pound  of 
picke.l  strawberries,  crush  them  to  a  smooth  mass, 
then  add  three  pints  of  water,  the  juice  of  a  Jemon, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  flower  water;  let  it 
stand  for  three  or  four  hours,  put  a  pound  of  fine 
white  sugar  into  another  basin,  put  over  it  a  large 
cloth  or  nay)kin,  nnd  strain  the  strawberries  through 
it,  wring  it,  to  extract  as  much  of  the  juice  as  pos- 
sible; stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  strain 
it  again,  and  set  it  on  ice  for  an  hour,  before  serv- 
ing in  small  tumblers  half  filled. 

Cream  Shekbet. — Put  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  into 
two  quarts  of  cream,  boil  it  up  once  in  a  covered 
stew-pan,  then  strain  it ;  add  to  it  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  stir  it  until  it  is 
dissolved. 

When  cold,  set  it  on  ice,  or  freeze  it  the  same  as 
ice  cream. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Dissolve  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  white  sugar  in  a  quart  of  water,  take  nine  large 
lemons,  wipe  them  clean,  and  cut  each  in  two; 
squeeze  them  so  as  to  extract  the  juice  and  the 
essence  from  the  peel ;  stir  into  it  the  sugared 
water,  then  strain  it,  and  freeze  the  same  as  ice 
cream. 

To  Prepare  Ripe  Fruits  or  Melons  for  Table. 

Ripe  Peaches  Cut  Small. — Take  fair  ripe 
peaches,  pare  off  the  skin,  and  cut  them  in  slices, 
not  very  small,  quarters  or  eighths  is  best,  if  the 
fruit  is  very  ripe ;  put  them  into  a  deep  glass  dish, 
and  strew  fine  sugar  plentifully  over  ;  serve  for 
dessert  or  tea-table, 

25  Q 


386  HUCKLEBERRIES,  &C. 

To  Prepare  SxRyiWBERRiES  and  Raspber- 
ries.— Take  them  carefully  up  by  the  Ijandful, 
pick  out  every  imperfection  or  hull,  have  a  basin  of 
cold  water,  and  pass  them  quickly  through  it,  with- 
out allowing  them  to  reniain  for  an  instant,  and  put 
them  into  a  deep  china  or  glass  dish  ;  when  all  are 
done,  strew  them  plentifully  with  powdered  white 
sugar,  and  serve;  or  serve  disl>es  ol  fine  sugar  with 
them,  without  the  sugar  upon  them  :  rinsing  the 
berries  in  this  way,  will  take  none  of  the  ricljness 
from  them,  but  freshen  them,  and  take  ofl'any  sand 
which  may  be  upon  them  ;  it  is  particularly  neces- 
sary with  strawberries,  after  a  rain,  as  you  will 
find  bv  examin<2:  the  rinsins:  water. 

Strawberries  should  never  be  touched  after  pick- 
ing^ them,  until  within  an  hour  of  servinc:.  Putting 
on  sugar  for  longer  than  this,  draws  out  the  juice, 
and  discolors  them.  Should  it  be  put  in  the  morn- 
ing, to  be  used  at  tea,  or  in  the  evening,  they  would 
in  all  probability  become  sour.  Ripe  berries  may 
be  kept  from  one  day  to  the  other,  by  setting  the 
dish  containing  them  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool,  dark 
place. 

Ripe  peaches  should  on  no  account  be  cut  or 
sugared  more  than  an  hour  or  two  before  serving. 
The  same  remark  applies  to  raspberries  and  black- 
berries. 

Peaches,  strawberries  and  raspberries  are  pre- 
pared and  sugared  in  this  way,  lo  be  served  with 
ice  cream  ;  or  with  sponge  cake  or  wine  cakes  in 
the  evening. 

Blackberries — Are  prepared  for  table  the  same 
as  strawberries  or  raspberries. 

HiJCKLE  OR  Whortleberries. — Put  them  into 
a  basin,  with   plenty  of  cold   water;  take  ofl' the 


WATfiRMELOXS.  387 

flonling  berries  and  stems  ;  take  up  a  handful  at  a 
time;  pick  out  any  unripe  or  crushed  ones,  or  stems 
or  leaves  ;  shake  the  water  from  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  bowl  or  deep  dish  ;  serve  sugar  with  them, 
or  strew  it  over. 

Rtpe  Currants  for  Tea. — Pick  them  from  the 
stems,  and  put  them  into  a  basin  of  water  ;  shake 
them  about;  then  take  them  up  by  the  handful; 
shake  off  the  water,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish  ; 
mix  plenty  of  sugar  with  them,  and  serve.  These 
are  better  for  standins:  for  an  hour  before  servin^r. 

Ripe  Cherries  for  Tea. — Pick  them  from  the 
stems  ;  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  and  throw  out  any 
impertect  ones ;  then  take  the  stones  from  them, 
over  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served;  mix 
sugar  with  them. 

MusKMELONS  AND  Cantelopes — Are  prepared 
for  table  by  cutting  them  in  two  from  end  to  end  ; 
and  after  taking  out  the  seeds  and  inside,  cut  them 
in  slices,  as  the  flutes  indicate  ;  serve  with  pepper 
and  salt.  There  is  great  choice  in  this  fruit,  some 
being  sweet  and  spicy,  whilst  others  are  compari- 
tively  insipid.  Nutmeg  melons  are  ilicomparably 
best. 

Watermelons. — These  should  be  put  in  cold 
water,  which  should  be  changed  several  times,  for 
three  or  more  hours  before  serving;  or  put  them 
on  ice,  or  in  a  refrigerator. 

Unripe  or  over  ripe  watermelons  are  very  un- 
wholesome. When  good,  the  inside  cuts  firm,  the 
seeds  are  black,  and  they  have  a  delicious  sweet- 
ness. The  inside  may  be  either  white,  or  pink,  or 
red 


388  CUCUMBERS. 


DIRECTIONS 


For  Making    Mangoes,  and    Other    Varieties  of 
Pickles. 

Cucumbers.  —  Cucumbers  for  pickling  should 
be  fresh  o:athered,  not  longer  than  a  finger,  and 
an  inch  thick.  The  gherkin  or  cluster  cucum- 
ber, has  a  rough,  prickly  outside,  and  they  are 
rather  thicker  for  the  length  than  the  ordinary 
pickle. 

Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  which 
will  bear  an  ^^^'^  let  the  pickles  remain  in  this 
twenty-four  hours;  then  take  them  from  the  brine, 
lay  them  in  a  tub,  make  vinegar  boiling  hot,  with 
whole  pepper,  and  alspice,  and  mustard-seed,  if 
liked  ;  pour  it  over  the  pickles,  and  let  them  re- 
main until  the  next  day.  Then  drain  it  off,  boil  it 
again,  pour  it  over,  and  cover  the  pickles  with  a 
thickly  f(jlde/l  cloth  ;  drain  off  the  vinegar  the  next 
day  ;  add  a' few  bits  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea  to 
it ;  make  it  boihng  hot,  and  again  pour  it  over  the 
pickles  ;  let  them  remain  for  a  day  or  two  ;  then 
cut  one  in  two  ;  if  it  is  not  a  fine  green  throu2:hout, 
scald  the  vinegar  again,  and  pour  it  over.  After  a 
few  days,  assort  the  pickles  ;  put  those  of  each  size 
togetljer  in  jars  ;  cover  them  with  cold  vinegar,  put 
a  cloth  and  cover  over  the  jars.  These  pickles 
will  keep  perfectly  well  for  years.  Put  the  largest 
and  so: test  in  jars  to  be  used  first. 

Cucumber  pickles  may  be  put  down  in  a  strong 
salt  and  water  brine,  to  be  greened  and  pickled  as 
they  may  be  wanted.  Keep  tliem  under  the  brine. 
When  wanted,  freshen  ihern  in  two  or  three  changes 
of  water,  for  two  or  three  days,  until  by  cutting  on<» 


GREEN    PEPPERS.  3S9 

open,  yon  find  it  but  little  salt ;  then  pour  scalding 
vinegar  over  them  three  times,  and  keep  them  cov- 
ered. 

Or,  after  taking  them  from  the  brine,  put  them 
into  a  kettle,  with  vine  leaves,  and  a  few  very 
small  bits  of  alum,  and  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size 
of  half  a  small  nutmeg,  to  one  hundred  pickles  ; 
cover  them  close,  and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly 
until  they  are  a  fine  green  ;  then  take  them  otf, 
and  put  them  in  cold  vinegar. 

Pickles  for  present  use  should  be  put  up  sepa- 
rately from  those  intended  for  keeping. 

Another  way  to  make  them  is  :  make  a  strong 
brine,  which  will  float  an  egg,  put  the  pickles  in 
for  twenty-four  hours,  then  take  them  from  it,  put 
them  into  a  bright  brass  kettle,  with  vinegar  and 
water  to  cover  them,  with  a  few  bits  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  pea,  scattered  between,  to  harden  them; 
fold  a  thick  coarse  towel  ov^er  them,  and  simmer 
very  gently  until  they  are  green;  if  they  do  not  be- 
come sufficiently  so  after  an  hour  or  more,  put  in 
a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg,  for  a 
kettle  full. 

When  a  fine  green,  take  them  with  a  skimmer 
into  a  stone  pot  or  wooden  vessel,  and  cover  with 
cold  cider  vinegar;  put  in  whole  pepper,  cloves,  al- 
spice,  and  mustard  seed. 

Green  Peppers. — These  are  pickled  the  same 
as  cucumbers.  It  is  best  to  slit  one  seam,  and  take 
out  the  seeds  or  core,  that  they  may  be  less  strong  ; 
if  they  are  preferred  strong,  slit  them,  and  soak  in 
salt  and  plenty  of  water  for  several  days  ;  the  last 
mentioned  receipt  for  cucumbers,  is  the  best  for 
peppers. 

The  best  peppers  for  pickling  are  those  thick 
skinned  and  green;    they   may  be    stuffed    with 


390  MELON    MANGOES. 

white   onions,  green  beans  sliced,  horseradish,  and 
mustard  seed,  the  same  as  melon  mangoes. 

Melon  Mangoes. — Get  the  late,  small,  smooth, 
green  melon  ;  they  should  not  be  larger  than  a  tea- 
cup, take  a  piece  from  the  stem  end,  large  enough 
to  allow  you  to  take  the  seeds  from  the  inside  ; 
scrape  out  all  the  soft,  without  cutting  the  other, 
then  secure  each  piece  to  its  own  melon  ;  lay  them 
in  rows  in  a  stone  or  wooden  vessel,  as  you  do 
them. 

Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  pour  it 
over  the  melons,  and  let  them  remain  twenty-four 
hours. 

Prepare  the  following  stuffing :  sliced  horse- 
radish, very  small  cucumbers,  green  beans,  nastur- 
tions,  white  small  onions,  mustard  seed,  whole  pep 
per,  cloves  and  alspice ;  put  the  beans  in  a  little 
water,  with  the  white  onions  ;  having  peeled  them^ 
and  set  them  over  the  fire,  give  them  one  scald, 
and  spread  them  out  to  cool ;  scald  the  pickles  and 
cool  them. 

Rinse  the  melons  in  clear  water,  then  wipe  each 
dry,  proceed  to  fill  them:  put  a  cucumber,  one  or 
two  small  onions,  and  two  or  three  beans,  with 
sliced  horseradish  and  mustfird  seed,  into  each 
melon,  put  on  the  piece  belonging  to  it,  and  sew  it 
with  a  coarse  needle  and  thread,  lay  then>  in  a 
stone  pot  or  wooden  vessel,  the  cut  side  up,  when 
all  are  in,  strew  over  the  cloves  and  pepper,  make 
vinegar  (enough  to  cover  them,)  boiling  hot,  and 
put  it  over,  then  cover  with  a  folded  towel,  let  them 
stand  for  one  night,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar, 
make  it  hot  again,  and  pour  it  on,  cover  as  before  ; 
repeat  this  scalding  four  or  five  times,  if  necessary, 
until  the  mangoes  are  a  fine  green;  three  times  is 
generally  enough. 


p 

TO    PICKLE    PLUMS,    &C.  391 

Be  sure  that  the  melons  are  green,  and  fresh 
gathered  ;  the  proper  sort  are  the  last  on  the  vines, 
and  green  and  firm. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  some  until  the  next  summer, 
choose  the  most  firm,  put  them  in  a  jar,  and  cover 
with  cold  fresh  vinegar ;  tie  thick  paper  several 
thicknesses  over. 

To  Pickle  Oxioxs. — Peel  the  onions  until  they 
are  white,  scald  them  in  strong  salt  and  water, 
then  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer;  make  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  them,  boiling  hot,  strew  over  the 
onions  whole  pepper  and  white  mustard  seed,  pour 
the  vinegar  over  to  cover  them,  when  cold,  put 
them  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  cork  them  close. 
A  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  may  be  put  in  the  bot- 
tles before  the  cork. 

The  best  sort  of  onions  for  pickling,  are  the  small 
white  buttons. 

To  Pickle  Nasturtions. — Pick  them,  and  pui 
them  in  glass  bottles,  with  cold  vinegar  to  cover 
them  ;  a  little  salt  may  be  added. 

Another  Way  to  Pickle  Onions. — Peel  the 
onions,  boil  some  strong  salt  and  water,  and  put  it 
over  them,  cover,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four 
hour^  then  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer;  make 
some  vinegar  boiling  hot,  put  to  it  whole  pepper 
and  mustard  seed,  and  pour  it  over  the  onions  to 
cover  them  ;  when  cold,  cover  close. 

To  Pickle  Plums  Like  Olives. — Make  a 
pickle  of  vinegar,  mustard  seed,  and  a  little  salt, 
make  it  b(^iling  hot,  then  put  it  over  green  plums, 
gathered  before  they  be.o:in  to  turn,  let  them  remain 
one  night,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar,  make  it  hot 


392  PEACHES    PICKLED. 

again,  and  ponr  it  over  the  plunns  ;  when  cold,  covei 
close.  Plums  may  be  taken  before  the  stone  is 
formed,  and  pickled  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Pickle  Green  Beans. — Pick  sound,  ten- 
der  green  beans,  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  salt  and 
water,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  saleratus,  set  them 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  to  scald,  when  they 
are  a  fine  green,  take  them  oflT,  take  them  from  the 
water  w^ith  a  skimmer,  make  vinegar  (enough  to 
cover  them,)  boiling  hot,  put  to  it  mustard  seed  and 
whole  pepper,  turn  it  over  the  beans,  let  them  re- 
main until  the  next  day,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar, 
add  a  very  small  bit  of  alum,  make  it  hot,  and 
again  pour  it  over  the  beans.  Keep  them  in  glass 
jars  with  tin  covers. 

To    Pickle    Walnuts    and    Butternuts. — 

Gather  the  nuts  when  so  young  that  you  may 
pierce  them  with  a  pin,  put  them  in  water  to  cover 
them,  and  change  it  every  day  for  three  weeks,  to 
extract  the  bitterness;  to  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them,  put  cloves,  alspice,  and  mustard  seed,  and 
salt,  make  it  boiling  hot,  and  put  it  over  the  wal- 
nuts ;  let  them  remain  for  a  day  or  two,  then  boil 
it  again  ;  boil  it  and  put  it  over  three  tinies. 

Or  after  soaking  them  in  water  as  directed,  put 
them  in  salt  and  water,  with  vine  leaves,  and  a  bit 
of  saleratus,  let  them  scald  up  once,  then  take  them 
out,  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  ;  drain  it 
off  after  twenty- four  hours,  boil  it  up,  and  again  pour 
it  over  the  pickle  ;  repeat  the  scalding  onc«  again. 

Peaches  Pickled. — Brush  the  down  from  green 
peaches,  cling-stones,  put  them  in  salt  and  water, 
with  leaves  and  a  bit  of  saleratus,  set  them  over  a 
moderate   fire  to  simmer  slowl}',   until  they  are  a 


TOMATO    CATUSUP.  393 

fine  green,  then  take  them  out,  wipe  them  dry,  and 
smooth  the  skins  ;  take  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them,  put  to  it  whole  pepper,  alspice,  and  mustard 
seed,  make  it  boiUng  hot,  and  turn  it  over  the 
peaches  ;  repeat  the  scalding  three  successive  days. 

Walnut  Catsup. — Bruise  to  a  mass,  one  hun- 
dred and  twenty  green  walnuts,  gathered  when  a 
pin  could  pierce  one  ;  put  to  it  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  salt,  and  a  quart  of  good  vinegar;  stir 
them  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  then  strain  and 
squeeze  the  liquor  from  them  through  a  cloth,  and 
set  it  aside,  put  to  the  husks  half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
and  let  it  stand  all  night,  then  strain  and  squeeze 
them  as  before  ;  put  the  liquor  from  them  to  that 
which  -^vas  put  aside,  add  to  it  one  ounce  and  a 
quarter  of  whole  pepper,  forty  cloves,  half  an  ounce 
of  nutmeg  sliced,  and  half  an  ounce  of  ginger,  and 
boil  it  for  half  an  hour  closely  covered,  then  strain 
it ;  when  cold,  bottle  it  for  use. 

Secure  the  bottles  with  new  corks,  and  dip  them 
in  melted  rosin. 

To  Make  Cider  Vinegar. — After  cider  has 
become  too  sour  for  use,  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  put 
to  it  occasionally  the  rinsings  of  the  sugar  basin  or 
molasses  jug,  and  any  remains  of  ale  or  cold 
tea ;  let  it  remain  with  the  bung  open,  and 
you  will  soon  have  the  best  of  vinegar. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Take  one  gallon  of  skinned 
tomatoes,  four  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  four  ditto  of 
whole  black  pepper,  half  a  spoonful  of  alspice,  eight 
pods  of  red  pepper,  and  three  spoonsful  of  mustard, 
boil  them  together  for  one  hour,  then  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  and  when  cold,  hot 
de  for  use  ;  have  the  best  velvet  corks. 

0* 


894  TO  PICKLE  BEETS. 

Another  Tomato  Catsup. — Take  ripe  tomatoes 
to  fill  a  jar,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake 
them  until  they  are  dissolved,  then  strain  them 
through  a  coarse  cloth  or  sieve;  to  every  pint  ot 
juice  put  a  pint  of  vinegar,  half  an  ounce  of  garlic 
sliced,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  the  same  of 
white  {pepper  finely  ground  ;  boil  it  for  one  hour, 
then  rub  it  tlirough  a  sieve,  boil  it  again  to  the  con- 
sistence of  cream  ;  when  cold,  botlle  it,  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sweet  oil  in  each  bottle,  cork  them 
tight  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Oyster  Catsup. — Take  fine  fresh  oysters,  rinse 
them  in  their  own  liquor,  then  pound  them  in  a 
marble  mortar,  and  to  a  pint  of  oyster  put  a  pint  of 
sherry  wine  ;  boil  them  up,  add  an  ounc#of  salt, 
two  drachms  of  cayenne  pepper,  let  it  boil  up  once 
again,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  ;  when  cold,  put  it  in 
bottles  and  cork  and  seal  them. 

To  Make  Mustard. — Put  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  the  Hour  of  mustard  into  a  teacup,  with  a  large 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  mix  with  it  gradually  enough 
cold  water  to  make  a  smooth,  quite  thin  paste. 

To  Pickle  Red  Cabbage. — Cut  the  cabbage  in 
thin  slices  across,  put  a  layer  of  it  in  a  stone  pot, 
strew  a  little  pepper  and  salt  over,  then  put  another 
iayer  of  sliced  cabbage,  strew  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  so  continue,  until  you  have  enough,  then 
cover  with  cold  vinegar;  turn  a  plate  (large  enough 
to  cover  it)  up<3n  the  cabbage  and  cover  the  pot. 

To  Pickle  Beets. — Wash  beets  in  cold  water, 
take  them  of  as  nearly  one  size  as  possible  ;  boil 
them  according  to  the  size,  from  three  quarters  of 
an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  take  them  into 


TO    PICKLE    TOMATOES.  395 

a  pan  of  cold  water,  rub  off*  the  skins  with  youi 
hands,  then  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,  length- 
wise, and  put  them  iato  cold  vinegar,  with  whole 
pepper  and  some  salt.  Beets  must  not  be  cut  be- 
fore boiling,  only  washed  clean  ;  old  i)ects  which 
have  been  kept  in  earth  should  be  put  in  soak  the 
night  before  boiling. 

To  Pickle  Tomatoes. — Take  the  round  smooth 
green  tomatoes,  put  them  in  salt  and  water,  covei 
the  vessel  and  put  them  over  the  fire  to  scald  ;  that 
is,  to  let  the  water  become  boiling  hot,  then  set  the 
kettle  off";  take  them  from  the  pot  into  a  basin  ol 
cold  water ;  to  enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover  them, 
put  whole  pepper  and  mustard  seed  ;  when  the 
tomatoes  are  cold  take  them  from  the  water,  cut 
each  in  two  across,  shake  out  the  seeds  and  wipe 
the  inside  dry  with  a  cloth,  then  put  them  into  glass 
jars,  and  cover  with  the  vinegar,  cork  them  close 
or  with  a  close  fittins:  tin  cover. 

Radish  Pods. — Pickle  these  the  same  as  beans 

A  few  hints  on  the  Management  of  Pickles,  Preserved 
Fruit,  ^'c. 

Pickles  should  always  have  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  them ;  those  intended  for  immediate  use, 
should  be  kept  in  wide  top  stoneware  pots  or  jars  : 
keep  a  cloth  folded  upon  the  pickles,  and  the  pot 
covered  with  a  plate  or  wooden  vessel  managed  in 
the  same  way;  pickles  should^  occasionally  be 
looked  over,  that  the  softest  ano  least  likely  to  keep 
well,  may  be  used  first.  Store  pickles  or  those 
intended  for  use  the  following  summer,  should  oe 
assorted  from  the  remainder  when  first  m.ade  • 
choose  those  most  firm  and   equal  sized,  out  them 


396  TO  PRESERVE  PICKLES. 

into  stone  or  glass  ware,  witli  fresh  vinegar  to  covei 
them ;  cover  the  vessel  close  with  several  thick- 
nesses of  paper  over,  or  a  tin  cover,  or  if  wide 
mouthed  bottles  are  used,  cork  them  tight. 

Beans,  radish  pods,  tomatoes,  small  cucumbers, 
green  plums  and  nasturtions  may  be  put  in  a  jar 
together  for  assorted  pickles,  with  a  few  onions  if 
liked  ;  it  is  generally  preferable  to  keep  onions 
separately,  since  there  are  many  persons  lo  whom 
they  are  extremely  offensive. 

Mangoes  should  be  kept  in  a  jar  or  pot  b}'- them- 
selves. Green  peppers  should  be  kept  separate 
from  other  pickles  ;  if  put  witli  cucumbers,  they  are 
known  to  lose  taste,  whilst  the  pickles  become  too 
strong  for  eating  ;  five  or  six  peppers  amongst  two 
or  three  hundred  cucumbers  will  make  them  suffi- 
(iiently  strong. 

Should  the  vinegar  on  pickles  become  white  or 
weakened,  turn  it  off',  scald  find  skim  it  and  return 
it  to  them  either  hot  or  cold.  Pickles  should  be 
taken  from  the  vinegar  with  a  wooden  spoon  or 
fork;  stirring  them  up  by  putting  in  the  hand  will 
spoil  the  vinegar. 

The  vessels  in  which  pickles  have  been,  whethei 
of  glass,  wood,  or  stone,  will  never  be  fit  for  pre- 
served fruit  ;  w^hatever  be  the  cause,  they  will 
surely  spoil  if  put  in  them.  After  the  pickles  are 
used,  throw  out  the  vinegar,  wash  the  vessels 
first  in  cold  water,  then  pour  hot  water  into  them, 
cover  and  let  it  remain  until  cold,  then  wash,  wipe, 
and  dry  them  near  the  fire  or  in  the  sun,  and  set 
them  awav  for  future  use  ;  wooden  ware  will  re- 
quire  to  be  wet  occasionally,  or  to  be  kept  in  a 
damp  place,  that  they  may  not  become  leaky. 

Should  catsups  seem  frothy  or  foam,  put  them  in 
a  bright  brass  or  porcelain  kettle  over  the  fire,  boil 
slowly,  and  skim  until   no  more  rises,  then  turn  it 


TO  PRESERVE  PICKLES.  39? 

into  an  earthen  vessel  to  cool,  after  which,  put  it  in 
bottles  and  stop  them  tight. 

A  cool  (lark  closet  is  the  best  place  for  pickles, 
catsups,  and  preserv^es. 

Preserves  should  be  disturbed  as  little  as  possible ; 
for  this  reason,  it  is  best  to  keep  them  in  small 
vessels,  that  not  more  than  enough  for  three  or  four 
times  use  will  be  disturbed  ;  take  them  out  with  a 
silver  spoon. 

Mrs.  Cowing's    Peach    Pickles. — Take   ripe 

sound  cling-stone  peaches,  remove  the  down  with 
a  brush  like  a  clothes  brush  ;  make  a  gallonof  good 
vinegar  hot,  add  to  it  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
boil  and  skim  it  clear  ;  stick  five  or  six  cloves  into 
each  of  the  peaches,  then  pour  the  vinegar  hot  over 
them,  cover  the  vessel,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place 
for  eight  or  ten  days,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar, 
make  it  hot,  skim  it,  and  again  turn  it  over  the 
peaches  ;  let  them  become  cold,  then  put  them  into 
ghiss  jnrs,  and  secure  as  directed  for  preserve*. 
Free-stone  peaches  may  be  used. 

Pickled  Plums. — Take  any  sort  of  plums — dam- 
sons are  best — assort  them  that  all  may  be  sound, 
and  put  them  into  a  stone  jar  or  pot;  to  a  gallon  of 
good  vinegar  put  four  pounds  of  clean  brown  su- 
gar, make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it  clear,  and  pour  it 
over  the  plums  to  nearly  or  quite  cover  them  ;  cover 
the  vessel  and  set  it  by  for  a  day  or  two  ;  then  drain 
off'  the  liquid,  set  it  to  boil  again,  skim  it  clear,  and 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  as  before  directed ;  let  it  re- 
main, as  before,  then  put  the  whole  together  into  a 
preserving  kettle,  set  it  over  a  slow  lire,  and  let 
them  simmer  until  the  syrup  is  quite  a  jelly ;  then 
turn  them  into  jelly  pots,  and  when  cold,  cover  with 
paper,  and  keep  the  same  as  currant  jelly,  in  a  cool 
dry  place. 


REMARKS 


ARRANGEMENT  AND  FURNITURE  OF  THE  BREAKFAST 
AND  DINING-ROOxM  FOR  FAMILIES. 


The  dining  or  breakfast-room  should  be  cool,  light,  and 
airy,  with  not  much  more  than  the  indispensable  furniture. 

In  summer,  the  floor  covered  with  a  straw-matting  or  an 
oil-cloth;  in  winter,  with  a  dark,  warm-looking  carpet. 

A  sideboard,  or  narrow  tables,  at  the  side  or  end  of  the  room, 
for  the  convenience  of  dessert  and  changes  of  dishes;  or  else 
have  dunjb  waiters,  (which  are  stands  supporting  large  trays  ) 

Most  modern  houses  are  built  with  .-sliding-closets  :  Avhen 
the  dining-room  is  above  the  kitchen,  this  is  almost  indisf)en- 
sable  :  or,  the  waiters'  pantry — between  the  dining  room  and 
kitchen — has  an  open  communication  with  it,  that  the  dishes 
may  be  pa^^sed  to  and  from  the  cook,  without  the  delay  and 
awkwardness  of  opening  Rn«i  shutting  the  doors:  or,  when 
there  are  no  servants  in  attendance,  it  is  convenient  to  have 
the  dessert  arranged  on  a  tray  covered  with  a  white  napkin, 
and  placed  on  a  stand  or  small  lal)le  at  the  left  hand  of  the 
mistress  or  head  of  the  ta})le,  and  one  on  the  other  hand,  for 
receiving  empty  plates,  &c. 

For  Breakfast. 

Have  a  wliite  cloth,  with  the  folds  regular  and  perceptible  ; 
let  each  dish  be  polished  with  a  soft  napkin  as  it  is  placed 
upon  the  table,  otherwise  there  is  apt  to  be  a  dimness,  from 
having  been  put  together  before  they  were  perfectly  dried  ; 
and  further,  to  remove  the  traces  of  the  necessary  handling, 
iu  putting  them  to  their  places  and  returning  them  to  the  table. 

The  plates  may  be  put  in  a  pile  at  the  left  hand  of  the  car- 
ver, or  at  regular  intervals  around  the  table.  A  vast  difierence 
may  be  made  iu  the  appearance  and  neatness  of  the  table,  by 
the  manner  in  which  the  knives  and  forks,  and  spoons,  and 
other  paraphernalia,  are  placed. 

The  colTee-urn  or  pot  should  have  on  its  brightest  face,  and 
all  the  recommcndative  warmth  of  its  nature — ready  for  a  free 


i 

SREAKFAST.  399 

outpouring  ;  the  cream  or  boiled  milk  should  not  lack  heat, 
aud,  not  "to  waste  its  sweetness"  on  the  unappreciating  air, 
should  be  contained  in  a  covered  pitcher  of  tin  or  other  metal; 
the  sn^'rar-basia,  w  hetber  of  the  same  as  the  other  dishes,  or 
of  metal,  should  be  bright  and  covered-,  with  a  large-sized  tea 
or  sug;ar-spoon  beside  it :  the  cups  and  saucers  may  be  placed. 
in  heaj)s  of  three,  within  the  circle  of  the  sugar,  slop,  a/id 
cream  veysels.  Let  the  urn  or  coffee-pot  be  set  at  the  right- 
hand  side  of  the  one  who  serves  it;  and  if  tea  is  used,  let  it 
be  placed  on  the  same  side  in  a  line  with  it;  the  one  to  be 
least  called  for,  to  stand  at  the  outer  corner  of  the  tray — which 
may  be  placed  at  the  middle  of  the  broadside  of  the  table,  or 
at  one  end. 

Before  putting  the  dishes  on  it,  the  tray  should  be  covered 
with  a  white  napkin,  fringed  at  the  ends. 

Small  napkins  or  doyies,  folded  in  four  and  ironed  very 
smoothly,  maybe  laid  at  each  plate,  which  should  be  reversed, 
or  turned  the  bottom  side  up,  and  the  knife  antl  fork  at  the 
right  hand  side,  or  the  knife  at  the  side  and  a  silver  fork  in 
front  of  the  plate.  Since  so  it  is,  that  many  Americans  dislike 
Ihe  use  of  a  silver  fork — finding  it  exceedinji[;ly  clumsy  and 
awkward — it  is  best  to  place  the  one  belonging  to  the  knife 
with  it,  at  the  side  of  the  i)iate,  leaving  it  optional  which  to 
make  use  of. 

Let  the  cruet-stand  or  castor  occupy  the  centre  of  the  table. 
If  there  are  more  than  five  or  six  persons,  have  two  small  plates 
of  butter,  one  at  either  end  of  the  table,  and  opposite  each 
other:  let  there  be  two  plates  of  bread  or  rolls,  or  one  of  either 
of  these,  and  the  other  place  for  hot  griddle  cakes,  or  corn 
bread,  or  toast. 

Opposite  the  tray  or  head  of  the  table,  let  the  steak,  or  fry, 
(or  whatever  principal  dish,)  be  placed,  with  the  carving  knife 
and  fork  before  it,  and  dishes  of  hominy  or  boiled  rice,  or 
mashed  potatoes  and  boiled  eggs  or  hash,  opposite  each  other, 
and  the  plates  of  bread,  lietvveen  the  steak-dish  and  tray,  hav- 
ing one  of  the  plates  of  butter  between  each  two,  and  the  castor 
in  the  centre;  also  one  or  two  salt-stands  filled  with  fme  salt 
and  neatly  marked  with  a  teaspoon  or  otherwise,  and  a  salt- 
epoon  across  each,  may  be  placed  diagonally  opposite  each 
other.  These,  with  a  pitcher  of  ice-water  and  several  tum- 
blers, occupying  the  corners  of  the  table  on  either  side  of  the 
carver,  complete  the  breakfast-thlde. 

If  there  is  a  servant  or  waiter  in  attendance,  let  such  stand 
at  the  left  hand  of  the  mistress  or  head  of  the  table,  with  a 
small  tray,  and  pass  the  cups  to  and  from  her,  presenting  it 
at  the  left-hand, 


400  WINTER    BREAKFAST. 

by  the  rij^ht  hand,  without  turning;  it  is  very  awkward  to  re- 
ceive it  at  the  other  hand,  beinji;  obliged  to  pass  back  the  elbow, 
and,  if  in  the  least  embarrassed,  in  danger  of  tilting  the  cup. 

Bills  of  Fare  comprising  ^ome  of  ths  many  combinations  suitable  for 
simple  family  breakfasts.     For  the  relief  of  young  housekeepers 

Coffee  and  tea,  or  chocolate,  either  or  both  ;  broiled  beef- 
steak, or  veal  or  lamb,  fried  or  broiled  ;  with  boiled  hominy 
or  mashed  potatoes,  or  potatoes  fried,  baked,  or  roasted  ;  and 
sliced  wheat  bread  and  corn  breakfast-cakes  or  griddle-cakes. 

Broiled  or  fried  chicken;  or  clams  stewed,  or  fritters,  or 
fried;  or  broiled  or  fried  ham,  with  eggs  fried,  boiled,  poached, 
or  omlet;  with  mashed  or  fried  potatoes,  and  such  warm 
and  cold  bread  as  may  be  desired. 

Salt  or  fresh  fish,  fried  or  broiled,  and  hot  rolls  or  cold  bread, 
with  tea  or  coffee,  constitute  a  very  popular  family  breakfast 
in  summer;  there  may  be  the  addition  of  such  a  variety  of 
bread,  hot  or  cold,  as  may  be  preferred;  and  mashed,  or  fried, 
or  roasted  potatoes;  or  boiled  hominy;  also  dressed  cucum- 
bers, or  stewed  tomatoes,  and  stewed  fruit  or  ripe  berries. 

Clam  omlet  will  generally  be  liked  by  those  who  are  fond 
of  clams. 

Green  sweet  corn,  boiled,  and  served  with  cold  meat  or 
steaks,  is  suitable  for  breakfast.  Smoked  beef,  fried  or  friz- 
zled, or  salt  cod,  relish;  or  a  bit  of  salmon  or  smoked  shad,  broil- 
ed, with  the  other  requisites,  make  a  nice  relishing  breafast. 

Hashed  meat,  or  meat  and  potato  hash,  is  suitable  at  any 
time,  and  with  any  other  dishes. 

Hot  rolls  or  mutfins,  warm  biscuits,  velvet  cakes  or  bread 
cakes,  and  twisted  bread  or  rye  bread,  or  short  cakes,  are 
some  of  the  varieties  of  bread  for  summer  breakfasts,  together 
with  dry  and  milk  toast. 

Bread  for  breakfast  should  be  cut  in  slices  nearly  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  arranged  neatly  on  a  folded  napkin  or  doyle, 
on  flat  plates.  Rye  bread  one  day  old,  cut  in  this  way,  is 
much  liked. 

None  but  the  best  sweet  butter  should  be  brought  to  the 
breakfiist  or  tea-table. 

For  Winter  Breakfasts. 

Fried  oysters  ;  or  soft-shell  clams,  fried;  or  fried  or  broiled 
chicken  ;  or  tripe,  broiled  or  (vied  ;  with  boiled  hominy,  or  hot 
torn  bread  and  rolls;   and  tea  or  coffee. 

Buckwheat  griddle-cakes,   with  fried  steaks,   ham,  or  sail- 


TEA    IN    SUMMER.  401 

saj^s,  or  cold  meat  or  hash,  are  a  popular  breakfast  for  wiater 
With  many  familieSt  buckwheat  cakes  are  the  constant  break- 
fast, with  some  little  varieties  of  meat,  and  tea  or  coffee,  during 
the  winter.  It  will  be  found  more  healthful  to  vary  occasion 
ally,  with  corn  griddle-cakes,  or  muffins,  or  some  other  hot 
cakes.  The  best  of  sweet  butter,  and  syrup,  should  be  served 
with  these  cakes. 

Head-cheese,  with  rolls  and  coffee,  make  a  nice  breakfast; 
also  fried  5?ausages;  or  meat  or  cod-fish  cakes.  A  shoulder  of 
lamb  may  be  boned  and  broiled  ;  or  a  breast  may  be  nicely 
and  thoroughly  broiled  ;    or  lamb  or  chickens  stewed. 

Cold  meat,  sliced,  and  fried  potatoes,  and  parsnips,  fried; 
with  boiled  hominy,  or  corn  bread  or  griddle-cakes,  may  be  liked. 


PiTie  Apple  cut  and  sugared  for  serving/  at  tea  or  dessert. 

Pare  off  the  rough  outside  and  cut  it  in  thick  small  pieces 
rather  than  slices,  and  strew  them  plentifully  with  pulverized 
Vv^hire  sugar,  an  hour  or  two  before  serving. 

Orangts  cut  in  the  same  manner  to  serve  for  dessert  or 
supper. 

Luncheons^  Suppers^  and  Desserts  require  similar  prepara- 
tion and  arrangement,  with  the  addition  of  cold  meats,  salads, 
sardines,  &c.,  or  oysters  fried,  stewed,  or  roasted,  or  any  of 
the  other  thousand -and-one  tit-bits  too  numerous  to  men- 
tion. 


Arrangement  of  Table  and  Bills  of  Fare  for  Tea, 

SUMMER. 

Let  a  pure  Avhite  cloth  be  neatly  laid  ;  let  the  tray  be  covered 
with  a  wiiite  napkin ;  and  on  it,  as  for  breakfast,  the  sugar, 
cream,  and  slop-basin,  containing  the  spoons  and  the  cups 
and  saucers  within  them.  Let  it  be  placed  in  the  middle  of 
one  side  or  at  one  end.  Put  around  the  tables  as  many  small 
plates  as  may 'be  w%anted,  with  a  small  knife  in  front  of  each, 
or  at  its  side :  at  the  otlier  end  or  side,  opposite  the  tray,  let 
the  dish  of  ripe  or  stewed  fruit  be  set,  with  a  large  spoon  and 
a  pile  of  small  saucers  in  front  or  at  the  side  of  it.  On  either 
side,  at  some  little  distance  from  it,  let  there  be  plates,  with 
bread  sliced,  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness ;  or  let 
one  dish  be  of  hot  wigs,  or  rusk,  or  tea-biscuit.  Let  a  fine  tnoiild 
26 


402  DINNER    TABLE. 

of  butler  occupy  the  centre  of  the  tal)le;  let  its  knife  he  beside 
it;  and  on  each  side  a  small  plate,  the  one  with  cold  meat, 
ham,  or  tongue,  sliced  thin,  (and  a  fork  to  help  it ;)  the  other 
witH  sliced  cheese,  or  a  fresh  pot-cheese.  A  pitcher  of  ice- 
water,  with  small  tuml)lers  surruuuding  it,  may  occupy  one 
corner,  and  a  basket  or  plate  of  cake  the  other. 

Or  a  glass-dish  of  custard  may  occu[)y  the  place  mentioned 
for  the  fruil,  and  it  (the  fruit)  be  distributed  in  small  saucers, 
with  fine  white  sugar  heaped  on  the  centre  of  each,  and  placed 
upon  each  plate  :  this  jiives  the  table  a  very  pretty  appear- 
ance. Or,  the  custard  baked  in  small  cups,  may  occupy  the 
places  of  the  saucers  of  fruit. 

tSmoked  beef,  chopped  thin,  or  Bo)ogna  sausages,  sliced,  may 
be  served  at  tea;  also,  cheese;  this  may  be  sliced  or  graied. 

For  Winter  Tca-Tahh, 

The  same  appurtenances,  with  the  addition  of  forks,  arc 
requisite,  with  perhaps  an  urn  of  coffee,  for  winter  tea-table. 

Oysters  j)ickled,  in  the  place  of  cold  meat,  or  stewed  in  the 
place  of  fruit,  or  instead  of  the  stew,  a  bit  of  broiled  fish,  or 
ham  or  fried  oysters,  with  hot  tea-biscuit,  and  rusks  o^  wig^, 
and  stewed  or  preserved  fruit,  and  fancy  cakes. 

Grated  cocoanut,  with  tart  preserves,  or  currant  jelly,  or 
cranberry  jam,  may  be  served  tiius  :  grate  the  white  meat  of 
a  cocoanut,  and  put  it  in  a  flat  glass  dish,  then  turn  a  mould 
of  jelly  upon  the  middle  of  it. 

TUe  Dinntr-Tahlt. 

This  requires  quite  a  different  arrangement,  not  having  the 
tray  of  cups,  etc. 

First,  lay  the  cloth  smoothly  and  evenly,  place  the  castor  in 
the  centre,  with  a  glass  salt  dish  at  some  little  distance  on 
either  si<le  of  it ;  lay  the  plates  around  the  table  at  regular  and 
proper  distances,  leaving  elbow  rDori*  for  each  person,  turn  the 
plates  down  as  directed  fur  breakfast,  set  a  tuoi!)ler  on  ea<-h 
plate,  with  a  fringed  napkin,  in  which  is  foldi'd  a  piece  of 
bread,  cut  an  inch  thick  and  two  and  a  half  inches  Jong,  or  a 
cold  roll  instead  ;  place  the  napkii)  \\\  the  tunibler,  or  uj)on  the 
plate,  and  the  tuiiibler  on  the  cloth  in  front  of  it ;  put  a  knife 
ftt  the  side  of  the  plate  and  the  silver  fork  in  front. 

When  two  dishes  of  ineLit  are  served,  one  should  be  roa-t, 
and  the  other  stewed,  fried,  or  boiled,  or  oold,  and  placed  one  at 
either  end  of  the  table  ;  a  boiled  fish  orine:i^  pje^  or  poultry, 


DINNER  TABL15.  403 

uvdy  occupy  one  end  of  the  tnble  instead  ;  boiled  potatoes  and 
spin^ich  may  be  served  with  and  placed  in  front  of  roast  beef 
or  veal,  and  mashed  potatoes  and  pickles,  or  a  dressed  salad 
with  cold  meat,  with  such  other  vegetal)les  as  may  be  in  sea- 
son ;  boiled  beets  or  asparagus  may  be  served  instead  of  spin- 
ach; and  peas  and  new  potatoes  with  land);  a  small  plate  of 
butter  or  a  fancy  mould,  and  a  plate  with  a  doyle  spread  over 
it,  with  properly  cut  bread  and  a  pitcher  o^ice  water,  may  be 
dispensed  in  the  intermediate  places,  or  at  the  corners.  When 
the  meat  and  vegetables  are  removed,  let  the  table  be  brushed 
free  from  crumbs  with  a  small  table  brush  on  to  a  small  tray. 

For  the  dessert,  have  a  large  tray  covered  with  a  white  nap- 
kin, on  which  place  the  pastry,  puddings,  and  small  plates, 
with  the  spoons,  knives,  and  forks  for  dessert,  as  many  as  there 
may  be  persons ;  let  fruits,  nuts,  and  creams,  and  jelly  or 
blancmange,  be  distributed  over  the  table  as  may  be,  also  the 
pastry  and  puddings,  plates,  etc.;  if  there  are  pies  and  pud- 
dings, or  cream,  let  there  be  a  knife,  fork,  and  spoon  and  plate 
and  saucer,  for  each  person. 

For  a  dinner  of  invited  friends  without  much  ceremony, 
pies  or  tarts  and  cheese,  and  some  fruit  or  nuts  and  raisins,  or 
pudding  or  blancmange  and  jelly,  or  jam  or  icecream,  is  amply 
sufficient. 

For  family  dinner,  the  dessert  is  generally  of  one  of  these, 
or  melon,  or  boiled  rice  with  a  sauce,  or  some  other  simple 
dessert,  of  which  a  great  many  may  be  found  in  this  book.  A 
successive  variety  of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl,  is  conducive  to 
health,  besides  pleasing  one's  palate. 

For  large  dinners,  soup  is  always  the  first  dish,  and  after  it 
is  fish  or  boiled  meat,  with  potatoes,  plain,  boiled,  and  mashed, 
and  such  sauces  as  may  be  proper  with  the  fish  and  meat:  after 
these  come  the  roasts,  with  every  variety  of  seasonable  vegeta- 
ble ;  small  flishes  of  fried  or  stewed  meat  or  poultry,  and  oys- 
ter and  meat  pie  or  chicken-salad  and  currie,  svveer.i)reads  and 
ragout,  may  be  interspersed  throughout  the  table,  those  oppo 
site  each  other  to  be  dished  in  like  manner,  to  give  the  whole 
a  tasteful  and  regular  appearance,  with  the  castors,  butter  and 
salt  stands,  of  w-hich  last  there  should  be  one  to  every  foui 
persons. 

After  these  are  done  with,  the  cloth  is  cleared,  and  the 
crumbs  and  bits  of  bread  are  brushed  from  it  on  to  a  small 
salver  by  means  of  a  talde  brush  ;  then  is  placed  the  dessert. 

Whatever  pyramids  or  other  ornaments  there  may  be, 
should  be  placed,  the  most  conspicuous  and  ornamental  in  the 
centre,  and  others  (of  which  there  should  be  duplicates)  on 
either  side  of  it,  at  greater  or  less  distance  apart,  according  t5 


4:04  .  CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

the  number  of  them ;  next  distribute  the  pastry  regularly- 
according  to  the  several  varieties ;  next,  the  puddings  and 
blancmange  or  charlotte  de  russe,  or  fruit  and  icecream ;  and 
lastly,  nuts  and  raisins,  or  grapes  and  jellies,  instead  of  char- 
lotte de  russe. 

Bills  of  Fare  for  Ceremonious  Family  Dinners* 


At  one  end  of  the  table,  a  tureen  of  soup  with  a  pile  of 
plates  beside  it,  or  a  boiled  fish  with  potatoes  and  its  proper 
sauce — at  the  other  end,  a  roast  of  meat  or  poultry  with  pota- 
toes and  seasonable  vegetables.  For  dessert,  pastry,  with 
pudding,  or  ripe  fruit,  or  nuts  and  raisins. 

A  roast  of  meat,  or  a  boiled  and  roasteS  ham,  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  spinach  or  asparagus,  at  one  end,  and  a  boiled 
lobster  and  lettuce,  or  a  lobster  salad  with  bread,  butter,  &c., 
at  the  other.  Dessert — boiled  pudding  or  rice,  with  a  sauce; 
pastry  may  be  added  ;  or,  instead  of  any  of  these,  a  baked  pud- 
ding or  custard,  and  paste  cakes  or  jelly  tarts. 

A  fine  boiled  fish,  with  potatoes  and  sauce,  and  a  meat  pie 
or  pot  pie  with  pickles  or  salad  ;  with  pastry  and  ripe  fruit  or 
melon,  or  a  boiled  pudding  or  boiled  rice.  Pine  apple  may 
be  pared  and  sliced  or  cut  small,  and  strewed  plentifully  with 
sugar  an  hour  before  serving. 

Holiday  Dinners, 

Great  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  arrangement  of  the  ta- 
We,  which  should  abound  in  appropriate  ornaments,  such  as 
evergreens  for  Christmas  and  New  Year,  national  emblematic 
devices  for  Fourth  of  July,  &c. 

Roast  turkey  and  mince  pies  for  Christmas  and  New  Year, 
are  with  us  what  ro2LSt  beef  and  plum  pudding  are  to  the  Eng- 
lish. 

To  Arrange  a  Christmas  Dinner. 

Place  a  high  pyramid  of  evergreens  (made  as  before  direct- 
ed) in  the  centre  of  the  table.  Let  a  roasted  turkey  of  uncom- 
mon size  occupy  the  middle  or  centre  of  one  side  of  the  table, 
on  one  end  let  there  be  a  cold  boiled  ham,  and  at  the  other, 
fricasseed  chicken  or  a  roast  pig;  with  the  turkey  serve 
mashed  potatoes  and  turnips,  boiled  onions  and  dressed  celery, 
or  other  salad  with  apple  sauce — near  the  ham  place  fried  or 
nia  bed  ()otatoes  and  pickles  or  mangoes  ;  and  with  tl^jupig  or 


FOURTH    OF    JULY    DINNER.  405 

fncassee,  the  same  as  whh  the  turkey;  large  pitchers  of  sweet 
cider  (or  where  that  is  not  desired,  ice  water)  should  be  placed 
diagonally  opposite  each  other,  on  two  corners  of  the  table  ; 
boiled  turkey  with  oyster  saune  may  occupy  the  place  of  the 
fricassee,  or  instead,  a  fine  oyster  pie. 

For  dessert,  there  should  be  one  or  two  very  large  and  orna- 
mental mince  pies,  one  sufficiently  large  that  each  of  the  com- 
pany may  be  helped  from  it,  in  token  of  common  interest,  is 
desirable. 

Icecreams  and  jellies  and  jams  and  ripe  fruits  and  nuts, 
with  sweet  cider  and  syrup  water  of  different  sorts,  or  wines, 
complete  the  dessert.  Biscuit  and  jelly  sandwich  may  be 
served  at  dessert,  or  paste  puff's  and  charlotte  de  russe  or 
blancmange  with  stands  of  jelly. 

I^ew  Yeafs  Dinner — a  Cold  Collation* 

In  New  York  city,  where  it  is  the  custom  for  ladies  to  remain 
at  home  to  receive  the  calls  of  their  gentlemen  friends,  there 
is  no  time  nor  occasion  for  dinners  ;  should  it  be  desirable,  it 
would  be  similar  to  that  for  Christmas,  or  instead — a  cold 
roasted  turkey,  (bone  it  if  you  can)  cold  boiled  ham  or  tongue, 
a  large  glass  salad-bowl  of  pickled  oysters,  or  an  oyster  pie 
with  dressed  celery  or  a  chicken  salad,  with  jelly  puffs  and 
tarts  and  small  mince  pies,  blancmange,  de  russe  and  jellies 
and  icecream  and  fancy  cakes,  with  syrup  water  and  orgeat  or 
lemonade  for  temperance,  or  wines  and  punch. 

The  manner  of  celebrating  New  Year's  day  by  calls,  is  a 
peculiarity  of  our  own,  and  having  so  few  which  are  '*  native 
here,"  many  of  our  wisest  and  best,  have  wished  that  this  might 
in  no  wise  be  slighted.  IVIany  a  feud-divided  family  have  been 
united,  and  misunderstanding  friends  been  brought  together, 
under  the  all-pervading  hospitality  and  genial  influence  which 
distinguishes  the  day. 

Fourth  of  July. 

There  is  generally  a  cold  collation  on  this  day. 

Let  the  centre  of  the  table  be  ornamented  by  a  pyramid  of 
evergreens  or  laurel,  which  may  be  made  thus:  make  a  stand 
or  frame  not  less  than  threo  ^eet  high,  make  a  long  wreath  of 
the  richest  laurel  or  evergreens,  and  beginning  at  the  top, 
wind  it  around  the  frame  until  the  bottom  is  reached  ;  at  the 
summit,  let  there  be  a  miniature  flag  of  our  country,  or  a  small 
bust  or  statue  of  Washington,  and  at  regular  distances  down- 
ward, small  silk  flags  with  the  coat  of  arms  and  mottoes  of 


406  CHAMPAGNE   PUNCH, 

each  several  State  in  the  Uniou;  or  instead  of  the  flap^s,  take 
as  many  streainers  of  dilTereiit  shades  of  colored  riShons  as 
there  are  States,  or  stars  cut  from  gold  or  silver  paper.  The 
flags  may  be  p  uuted  by  ladies  whose  natitmal  feeiiu;^^  and 
talents  inspire  them  to  the  work. — A  cold  boiled  hani  and  ctdd 
roasted  poultry  may  be  placed  on  one  end  of  the  table, 
or  at  the  middle  of  one  side,  and  lobster  and  chicken  salads  at 
the  sitles  or  end,  with  bread  and  buttei*  sandwich  and  crackers 
and  soda  biscuit ;  such  pasty,  jelly  tans,  jellies.  Hoating  island 
or  blancmanj;e  and  baskets  of  cut  cake  and  maccaroous,  as 
may  be  desired,  may  be  distributed  around  the  table  ;  and 
syrup  water  and  lemonade,  with  a  fine  bowl  of  temperance 
beverage  and  bottled  soda,  which  will  generally  leave  a  mora 
clear  recollection,  than  wines,  cordials,  and  champagne. 

Thanksgiving  Dinner, 

The  substantial  for  Thanksgiving  dinner  are  similar  to 
those  for  Christmas,  whilst  punjpkin  pie  crowns  the  dessert, 
(see  Thanksgiving  pie,)  and  the  pyramids  are  of  maca- 
roons, <5i.c. 

A  Fine  Temperance  Beverage. 

To  the  juice  of  a  dozen  fine  fresh  lemons,  pressed  so  as  to 
extract  the  ei^sence  from  the  skins,  j>ut  one  pound  of  double 
refmed  sugar;  to  one  quart  of  picked  raspberries  or  strawber- 
ries (or  a  pint  of  preserved  fruit),  put  half  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar — pare  a  ripe  pine  apple  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  and 
each  slice  in  four  or  six  pieces,  and  put  with  it  half  a  pound  of 
sugar ;  stir  the  lemon  juice  with  the  sugar  until  it  is  all  dis- 
solved, crush  the  strawberries,  and  slightly  bruise  tjie  pine- 
apple ;  put  the  lemon  into  a  large  bovvl,  and  add  to  it  three 
quarts  of  ice  water,  then  add  the  strawberry  and  pine-apple, 
stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  then  set  the  liowl  on  ice 
for  an  hour  before  serving.  Dip  it  from  the  bovvl  into  small 
tund)lers,  three  parts  fill  them,  and  serve  with  sponge  cake  cut 
small,  Palo  Alto  cakes  and  small  sugar  cakes. 

Honied  fruit,  or  pine-apple  preserved  without  cooking,  may 
be  used  in  winter. 

Champagne  Punch 

Maybe  made  as  above  directed,  with  the  addition  of  a  bottle 
of  champagne.  Or  another  punch  may  be  made  by  putting  to 
the  Temperance    Beverage,  of  brandy   and   rum  half  a  pint 


I 


i 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  <fOY 

each,  or  more  according  to  tlie  quantity  required.  Sprigs  of 
fresh  green  mint  added  to  it,  and  put  into  a  tumbler  half  tilled 
with  tin  el}'  chipped  ice,  with  glass  tubes  for  sipping  it,  will 
make  mint  julap. 


COOKERY  FOR  INVALIDS. 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 

To  xMake  Watkr  Grukl. — Put  a  quart  of  water  or  milk 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  :  irjto  a  pint  bowl  put 
a  heaping  tahlespoonful  of  sweet  corn  meal,  and  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  ir»ake  it  a  smooth  l)atter  with  milk;  when  the 
water  or  milk  in  the  stew  panjs  boilinj^  hot,  stir  it  into  ihe  bat- 
ter, and  let  it  boil  j^ently  for  half  an  hour;  when  served,  it  may 
be  sweetened  with  loaf  su}>;ar  and  a  little  nutme<»  grated  over, 
for  a  relaxed  state  of  the  system,  or  sweeten  with  brown  sugar, 
make  it  with  water,  and  boil  a  few  raisins  with  it,  when  the 
opposite  is  the  case.  A  bit  of  butter  and  a  wineglass  of  wine, 
or  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  may  he  added  to  water  gruel, 
when  it  is  wanted  for  a  strengthening  nourishment.  Water 
gruel  is  generally  given  after  a  dose  of  castor  oil,  or  after  a  a 
emetic,  or  almost  any  thorough  medicine. 

OAT-MEAr.  Gruel. — Make  precisely  as  directed  for  corn 
meal  ;  these  gruels,  made  thus,  are  extremely  nourishing  and 
grateful  to  the  palate,  with  only  salt  or  sugar,  &c.  Infants, 
before  weaning,  and  immediately  after,  are  apt  to  be  fond  of 
gruel  or  panada 

Arrowroot. — This  is  very  nourishing  and  liiijht,  either  for 
invalids  or  infants  ;  make  it  \\hh  milk  or  water— put  a  pint  of 
either  into  a  stew-pan,  make  it  boiling  hot,  add  a  sahspoonfui 
of  salt,  put  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  ground  Bermuda  arrow- 
root into  a  cup,  make  it  smooth  with  cold  milk,  stir  it  into  the 
stew-pan,  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  «r  three  minutes:  then 
turn  it  into  a  bowl,  sweeten  and  grate  nutmeg  over,  if  liked  ; 
should  it  be  preferred  thin,  use  less  arrowroot. 

This  should  be  made  only  as  much  as  is  wanted  at  a  time, 
since  it  will  become  as  thin  as  water  if  heated  over.  Arrow- 
root mav  bft  marlp.  in  smMll  nnantifii»!5    bv  TTjivino-  ?»  tt»aa«">n(mfiil 


408  MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS, 

smooth  m  a  cup  with  cald  water  or  milk,  then  pour  upon  it, 
stirring  it  all  the  time,  boiling  milk  or  water  to  make  it  thick 
or  thinner  to  your  taste — add  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  sugar  to 
taste. 

Carragan  Moss. — Wash  and  pick  a  tablespoonful  of  Irish 
moss,  and  put  it  into  a  tin  cup,  pour  on  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  set  it  on  a  stove  or  coals  for  a  sh.ort  time  ;  when  it 
is  all  dissolved,  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  This  may  be 
made  with  milk,  to  resemble  custard,  and  is  wonderfully  nour- 
ishing and  delicate.  Delicate  infants  may  be  fed  on  it  when 
they  will  take  no  other  nourishment. 

Arrowroot  Blancmange. — Put  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil, 
take  an  ounce  of  Bermuda  arrowroot  ground  fine,  make  it  a 
smooth  batter  with  cold  milk,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  when 
the  milk  is  boiling  hot,  stir  the  batter  into  it,  continue  to  stir  it 
over  a  gentle  fire  (that  it  may  not  be  scorched)  for  three  or 
four  minutes,  sweeten  to  taste  with  double  refined  sugar,  and 
flavor  w  ith  lemon  extract  or  orange  flower  water,  or  boil  a 
stick  of  cinnHrnon  or  vanilla  beaii  in  the  milk  before  putting  in 
the  arrowroot;  dip  a  mould  into  cold  water,  strain  the  blanc- 
mange through  a  muslin  into  the  mould,  when  perfectly  cold 
turn  ii  out ;  serve  currant  jelly  or  jam  with  it. 

Rick-Flour  Blancmangl. — Make  as  directed  for  arrow- 
root blancmange,  a  smail  teacupful  of  ground  rice  to  a  quart  of 

Thickened  Milk  (Milk  Soup.)— Vut  a  quart  of  milk  over 
the  fire  to  boil,  put  a  teacupful  of  wheat  flour  into  a  basin, 
sprinkle  over  it  enough  water  to  make  it  damp,  then  work  it 
between  the  hands  until  it  forms  in  small  smooth  rolls,  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  milk,  and  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  stir 
in  the  flour,  let  it  boil  gently  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  then 
turn  it  into  a  tureen,  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  if  liked,  or  without 
either. 

This  is  very  light  and  nourishing  for  invalids  or  children, 
except  in  cases  of  constipation,  which  boiled  milk  increases. 

Milk  Porridge. — Make  a  quart  of  milk  boiling  hot:  make 
a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  a  smooth  batter  with  cold  milk; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk; 
continne  to  stir  it  for  five  minutes  then  put  it  into  a  basin  or 
tureen;  sweeten  to  taste;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 
TMis  is  very  .uourishing  and  agreeable  either  for  children  or 


MISCITLLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  409 

adults.  Sweetened  with  loaf  sugar,  and  nutmeg  grated  plenti- 
fully over  it,  will  make  it  a  most  excellejit  remedy  for  loose- 
ness or  dysentery.  Or,  boiled  milk  without  the  thickening, 
sweetened  with  loaf  sugar,  and  flavored  with  grated  nutmeg, 
has  the  same  effect. 

Buttermilk  Pop. — Make  a  quart  of  buttermilk  boiling  hot , 
wet  a  tahlespoonful  of  com  meal  or  wheat  flour,  and  make  it 
a  smooth  batter  with  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  milk,  with  a 
teaspoouful  of  salt;  contiiuie  to  stir  it  for  five  minutes  when 
wheat  flour  is  used,  or  fifteen  when  it  is  made  with  corn  meal. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  sugar  or  syrup,  and  add  nutmeg  or 
ground  ciiinnmou,  if  liked.  This  is  eaten  with  bread  broken 
into  it. 

Grken  Corx  Soup,  (venj  excellent.) — Cut  the  corn  from 
the  cob,  (sweet  corn  to  be  preferred;)  put  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  quart  or  more  of  sweet  milk;  add  a  teaspoouful  of  salt; 
let  it  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  bit  of  sweet  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  to  taste ;  and  serve  with 
rolls  or  toast.  A  blade  of  mace  may  be  added  to  the  flavor  if 
liked. 

Toast  Water  —Cut  a  slice  from  a  wheat  loaf;  toast  it 
dry  and  brown  without  burning;  put  it  into  a  pitcher,  and 
pour  over  it  a  pint  or  more  of  water.  A  very  Utile  lemon- 
juice  may  be  added  to  it,  with  sugar,  if  desired. 

Apple-Water. — Cut  tart  apples  quite  small ;  pour  boiling 
water  over  them,  and  set  it  where  it  will  simmer  gently  for 
half  an  hour;  then  strain  off  the  liquor;  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
serve.     Or,  take  baked  apples,  and  finish  in  the  same  manner. 

Baked  Apples. — Put  tart  or  sweet  apples  into  a  pan,  and 
set  it  into  a  moderate  oven  for  nearly  an  hour,  or  a  full  hour 
for  sweet  apples,  until  they  are  soft  enough  to  mash. 

Lemon  Water — Cut  a  small  fresh  skin  lemon  in  very  ihia 
slices;  put  them  into  a  pitcher,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
over;  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  until  cold;  then  sweeten  to 
taste,  and  serve  * 

To  Mull  CTDER.--Take  a  pint  of  sweet  cider;  resei've  a 
teaciipfui  of  it;  tben  to  the  remainder  put  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  and  set  it  to  boil,  w^ith  a  teaspooiiful  of  whole  alspice; 
beat  three  eggs  very  light,   and  by  degrees  stir  tbe  cold  cider 


410  MTSCELLA.NEO[JS   RECEIPTS, 

f.o  the/n;  then  stir  them  into  the  boiling  cider  and  water;  con- 
tinue to  stir  it  until  grnooth;  sweeten  to  taste;  {^rate  a  little 
nutmeg  over,  and  serve  hot  in  tumblers,  with  doughnuts  oi 
crullers. 

Mulled  Wixe. — Make  the  same  as  directed  to  mull  cider, 
of  port,  or  Madeira. 

Rice  Milk. — Wash  a  large  teaspoonful  of  rice,  and  put  it 
to  a  quart  of  sweet  rniiU,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cover  it, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  nearly  an  hour:  then  take  it  up; 
add  sugar  to  taste,  v/ith  nutmeg  or  ground  cinnamon. 

vSago. — Let  it  soak  for  an  hour  or  more  in  cold  water,  tc 
take  ofiTthe  eai-ihy  taste;  then  rinse  it  through  another  water; 
put  a  teacupful  into  a  dish  ;  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  wa 
ter,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  nearly  an  hour;  then  sweeten  to 
taste  ;  grate  nutmeg  over,  and  serve — or,  serve  with  a  sauce. 

Sago  Milk. — Soak  the  sago  ;    then  finish  as  rice  milk. 

Tapioca. — Make  as  directed  for  rice. 

Barley  Water. — Put  a  large  lablespoonful  of  well-wash- 
ed pearl-barley  into  a  pitcher;  pour  over  it  boiling  water; 
cover  it,  and  let  it  remain  till  ^!old  ;  then  drain  off  the  water* 
eweeten  to  taste,  and,  if  liKecf.,  ixdd  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

Broth,  in  Haste. — Chop  some  roast  meat  or  broiled  steak 
quite  finer  t(»  a  teacupful  put  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling  water; 
cover  it,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  ten  minutes;  season  to 
taste.  This  broth  for  hivalids  or  children  is  both  excellent 
and  convenient.  A  cracker  may  be  rolled  fine,  and  put  with 
the  meat  before  putting  on  the  water. 

Panada. — Break  stale  bread  or  soda  crackers  small,  and 
put  tb.em  into  a  bowl  ;  put  a  hit  of  butter  to  it,  and  pour  boil- 
ing water  over,  to  make  it  quite  wet;  work  it. fine  with  a  spoon; 
ndd  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  more  water,  to  m.jke  it 
thinner.  Raisins,  picked  free  from  stems,  and  rinsed  in  cold 
vyater,  may  be  put  in  with  the  Ijread,  w  hen  there  is  no  objec- 
tion to  the  effect  produced  by  them — they  being  laxative. 

PiiUiNES,  Stewed. — Rinse  or  wash  the  prun^is,  as  may  be 
necessary;  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  teacupful 


.       MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  411 

of  clean  brown  suj^ar  to  a  pound,  and  waicr  more  than  to  cover 
them;  cover  the  pan,  and  let  them  stew  jjjently  for  nearly  an 
hour,  until  they  are  soft,  and  the  syrup  is  rich. 

To  Remove  Stains  from  thf.  Hands. — Dampen  the  hands 
first  in  water,  then  rub  them  with  tartaric  acid,  or  salt  of  lem- 
ons, as  you  would  with  soap;  rinse  them  and  rub  them  dry. 
Tartaric  acid,  or  salt  of  lemons,  will  quickly  remove  stains 
from  white  muslin  or  linens.  Put  less  than  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  salt  or  aciJ  into  a  tablespoonful  of  water;  wet  the  stain 
"with  it,  and  lay  it  in  the  sun  for  an  hour ;  wet  it  once  or  twice 
with  cold  water  during  the  time  :  if  this  does  not  quite  remove 
it,  repeat  the  acid  water,  and  lay  it  in  the  sun.  Tomato  juico 
will  remove  stains  from  the  hands. 

Tomato  Pie. — Take  the  yellow  small  tomatoes,  ripe  but  not 
soft;  pare  them,  with  a  sharp  knife;  cut  them  in  two  across; 
take  out  the  juice  and  seeds  ;  then  cut  the  tomatoes  small, 
and  season  and  finish  as  directed  for  apple  pie.  (see  page  251.) 

Tomato  Tart. — Pare  and  take  the  seeds  from  the  tomatoes ; 
cut  them  small,  and  stew  them  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  with 
a  very  little  water  or  lemon  juice;  make  it  quite  sweet,  and 
finish  as  directed  for  apple  tart,  (see  page  251.) 

Rhubarb  Preserve. — Strip  oiT  the  outer  skin;  cut  the 
stalks  in  inch  lengths,  and  finish  ac  directed  for  tomatoes 

Water-Melon  Pickles. —  Prepare  the  rind  of  water- 
melon as  directed  for  sweeimeat  preserve,  and  put  them  into 
cold,  spiced  vinegar ;  or,  cut  them  in  strips  the  length  and 
breadth  of  a  finger. 

Large  Plums — May  be  pared  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  pre- 
served the  same  as  directed  for  peaches. 

Ribs  of  Beef. — A  fine  roasting-piece  of  beef  from  the  ribs 
may  first  be  boned,   which  is  a  great  improvement. 

A  Fore-Quarter  of  Veal. — The  bone  may  be  taken 
from  a  shoulder  of  veal,  without  cutting  it  off;  stuff  the  place 
of  it  with  potato  or  bread-stuffing. 


ADDITIONAL  RECEIPTS 


RICE  PIE. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  Nvith  a  pint  of  cold  milk  mix  smooth- 
ly three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  and  four  well 
beaten  eggs,  fl  ivor  with  extract  of  lemon,  (or  boil  lemon 
peel  in  the  milk),  then  stir  the  eggs,  milk,  (fee,  into  the 
boiling  milk — sweeten  to  taste — let  it  cool  ;  add  a  wine- 
glass of  Madeira  wine,  if  liked,  and  some  nutmeg,  line 
dishes  with  pie  paste,  and  finish  the  same  as  pumpkin. 

RICE  CUSTARD. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  to  one  tablespoonful  of  rice  flour, 
put  one  beaten  egg,  and  enough  of  cold  milk  to  make  a  bat- 
ter, then  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  sweeten  to  taste — add 
nutmeg  and  peach  water  or  lemon  extract,  a  teaspoonful  of 
either,  strain  it,  and  serve. 

A  FRENCH  DESSERT. 

Beat  four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste,  cut  slices  of  baker's  bread  and  steep  them  until 
thoroughly  saturated,  then  fry  in  hot  butter,  and  serve. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING. 

Put  two  ounces  of  vermicelli  into  a  quart  of  milk,  and 
boil  it  over  a  gentle  fire  until  dissolved,  then  let  it  cool,  add 
three  well  beaten  eggs,  bake  i[i  a  quick  oven  for  one  hour, 
and  serve  with  wine  or  brandy  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Make  a  stiflf  batter  with  one  quart  of  milk,  and  as  much 
lifted  wheat  flour  as  may  be  necessary  ;  add  three  well 


ORANGE    PUDDING.  4l3 

beaten  eggs  and  two  ounces  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  tie 
it  in  a  bag,  and  boil  for  two  hours  ;    serve  with  a  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Put  a  coffee  cup  full  of  tapioca  into  two  quarts  of  milk, 
and  set  it  near  the  fire  for  an  hour,  or  put  it  in  hot  milk — 
let  it  cool,  then  add  six  well  beaten  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste, 
flavor  with  lemon  or  peach  water  or  nutmeg,  and  bake  for 
one  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  when  cool,  add  six  well  beaten 
eggs  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  the  white 
meat  of  a'cocoanut,  grated  fine,  flavour,  and  sweeten  to  taste  ; 
put  it  into  a  buttered  pan  ;  grate  two  crackers  over,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven— when  it  is  done,  it  will  rise  in  the 
middle. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Grate  a  sixpenny  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  and  moisten  it 
with  milk,  then  add  to  it  half  a  teacup  of  wheat  flour,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned, 
one  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  one  wine 
glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  grated,  and  ground  cinnamon 
and  alspice,  each  a  teaspoonful  —  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  for  five  hours  ;  serve  with  a  sauce. 

POTATO  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes,  and  grate  them  fine,  add  half 
a  pound  of  sugar,  and  six  beaten  eggs,  one  wine  glass  of  - 
brandy,  grated    orange  peel,    cinnamon   and  nutmeg,  each 
a  teasDOonful — bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  butter  with  one  pound  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
froth,  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  a  fresh  lemon,  grated,  (the  pip 
taken  out),  the  skins  of  three  oranges  boiled,  and  beaten  to 
a  pulp,  and  the  juice  strained  ;  add  the  orange  and  lemon 


414  FLOUR  PUDDING  BAKED  IN  CUPS. 

juice  after  the  eg^s — add  a  wineglass  of  wine  or  brandy 
and  nutmeg — bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Eight  large  pippens,  pared,  boiled  tender,  and  mashed, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs  beat- 
en, the  juice  of  a  sweet  orange,  and  the  rind  grated,  aiid  a 
glass  of  wine — bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKED  INDIAN   PUDDING. 

Boil  three  pints  of  sweet  milk,  and  stir  into  it  one  pint  of 
Indian  meal,  wlien  cold,  add  five  well  beaten  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  a*id  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  sweeten  and  spice  to  taste,  and 
bake  nearly  two  hours  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHARLIE'S  APPLE  PUDDL^G. 

Butter  a  pudding  dish  well,  then  put  in  an  inch  deep  of 
chopped  apples,  strew  over  sugar  and  spice,  with  a  few 
bits  of  butter,  then  an  inch  deep  of  bread  crumbs  or  rolled 
crackers,  then  another  layer  of  apples,  spice,  &c.,  and 
lastly  crackers  or  bread  crumbs  ;  then  again  apples,  and  so 
fill  the  dish  ;  press  the  whole  firmly  down  by  turning  a  plate 
over  it — bake  six  hours. 

MARLBOROUGH  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  grated  apples,  half  a  pound  of  fine  while 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  the  peel 
of  one  lemon  grated,  and  the  strained  juice  of  two  ;  line 
the  dish  with  pie  paste,  put  the  pudding  in,  and  bake  in  a 

quick  oven. 

* 

FLOUR  PUDDING  BAKED  IN  CUPS. 

Five  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  wheat  flour  beaten  with 
five  eggs,  add  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a  thin  batter, 
sweetin  with  two  table  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  add  half  a  nut- 
meg, grated,  and  a  little  lemon  extract,  bake  in  little  but- 
tered cups,  in  a  quick  oven 


SPONGE  CAKE.  415 


PLAIN  INDIAN   PUDDING. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  boiling  hot,  stir  into  it  two  teacups 
of  yellow  corn  meal,  add  two  eg^s  well  beaten,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  with  a  teacup  of  light  brown  sugar,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e«jg  ;  add  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 
and  a  little  ginger,  and  bake  two  hours. 

CARROT    PUDDING. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  carrots,  and  half  a  pound  of  bread, 
add  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the 
same  of  cinnamon,  put  to  it  four  table  spoonfuls  of  sugar, 
four  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  melted,  one 
glass  of  wine  and  a  pint  of  milk,  beat  the  whole  together, 
put  it  into  a  buttered  dish,  sprinkle  fine  sugar  over,  and 
bake. 

BREAD   CAKE. 

Take  three  pounds  of  jisen  dough,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  currants,  six  beaten  eggs, 
one  glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  grated,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  alspice  ;  work  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  well 
together,  then  work  it  into  the  dough,  make  it  in  a  loaf, 
and  bake  the  same  as  bread. 

DROP  BISCUITS. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  quart  of 
milk,  four  beaten  eggs,  and  to  make  a  batter  so  thick  as  to 
drop  without  running;  add  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  ex- 
tract—let it  stand  one  hour,  then  drop  it  on  a  floured  tin,  in 
small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  to  a  fine  brown  color. 

A  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Take  twelve  eggs,  and  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  half 
their  weight  of  flour,  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  the  flour,  and  lastly,  the  white,  having  beaten  them 
to  a  high  froth,  stir  them  lightly  together,  add  half  a  grated 
nutmeg,  put  it  into  a  paper-lined  pan,  and  bake  quickly. 


416  COCOANUT  CAKE. 


SPONGE  CAKE  PUDDING. 

Take  two  eggs,  with  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  half  their 
weight  in  flour,  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose  water  ;  make  a 
mixture  as  for  rice  pie — put  the  sponge  cake  mixture  into 
a  buttered  basin,  and  when  the  pie  mixture  is  cold  pour  it 
over,  and  bake. 

DELICATE   CAKE. 

One  pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  seven 
ounces  of  sweet  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream — the  whites 
of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  half  a  nutmeg,  grated, 
and  some  lemon  extract,  if  liked,  or  a  little  rose  water — 
bake  in  a  paper-lined  pan.  Almonds  blanched  and  pounded 
to  a  paste  may  be  added  or  substituted  for  butter. 

ALBANY  CAKES. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
one  teacup  of  sour  milk,  one  egg,  one  teacupful  of  salera- 
tus,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  rose 
water  or  brandy,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  cinnamon,  roll  out  very  thin,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

A  GENERAL  RULE  FOR  MAKING  SPONGE 
CAKE. 

Take  the  weight  of  the  eggs  used  in  sugar,  and  half 
the  weight  of  flour,  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together, 
ihen  add  the  flour,  and,  lastly,  the  whites,  having  beaten 
them  to  a  high  froth,  stir  them  thoroughly  together,  put  it 
into  a  paper-lined  basin,  or  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
the  cake  may  be  flavored  with  lemon,  rose,  or  vanilla  ex- 
tracts, and  a  little  nutmeg,  or  with  a  little  brandy.  Pounded 
almonds  or  grated  cocoanut,  may  be  added  to  sponge  cake 
mixture. 

A  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

Grate  the  white  meat  of  one  cocoanut  — take  half  a  pound 
of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of 


WASHINGTON  BREAKFAST  CAKE.  417 

butter,  and  six  beaten  eggs  for  the  cake,  flavor  to  taste, 
when  well  beaten,  siir  in  the  cocoanut,  and  bake  as  pound 
cake.  V 

INDIAN  r3REAKFAST  CAKE. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk,  scalding  hot,  stir  into  it  as  much 
corn  meal  as  will  make  a  thick  batter,  add  of  salt  and  sal- 
eratus,  in  fine  powder,  each  a  teaspoonful,  and  when  a  lit- 
tle cooled,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  bake  in  buttered  pans,  in 
a  quick  oven. 

INDIAN  BREAKFAST  CAKE. 

Wheat  flour,  one  pint  bowlful,  Indian  or  corn  meal  ditto, 
three  well  beaten  e^gs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butler,  and 
a  pint  of  milk — bake  in  small  pans,  buttered — a  quick 
oven. 

INDIAN  CAKES. 

Make  a  quart  of  milk  boiling  hot,  stir  it  into  a  pint  of 
sweet  white  Indian  meal,  after  it  has  quite  cooled,  add  four 
beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butler,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  bake  in  shal- 
low pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

INDIAN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  four  well  beaten 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  beat  it  well  together,  and  bake  on  a  griddle  or  in  a 
pan. 

MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  nut, 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast-— 
warm  the  milk  and  butler  together,  then  add  the  other  in- 
gredients —  let  it  set  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour,  oi 
more,  and  bake  in  rings  on  a  griddle. 

WASHINGTON    BRE.AKFAST  CAKE. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one 
pint  of  milk,  three  well  beaten  eggSj  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
27  E* 


418  CRACKLINGS. 

sugar,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  beat  it  well  together 
put  il  in  pans  an  inch  deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

•PEACH  POT  PIE. 

Make  a  paste  of  one  teacup  of  water  and  half  a  cup  of 
shortening,  (if  lard  or  beef  dripping  is  u.sed,  sail  it,)  and  as 
much  wheat  flour  as  will  make  a  nice  paste  ;  lake  a  small 
inm  pot,  butler  the  sides,  roll  out  your  paste,  reserve  enough 
to  cover  the  top  of  the  pie,  put  some  around  the  sides,  leav. 
ing  ihe  bottom  unc»vered,  the  size  of  a  teaj)laie  ;  pare  hall 
a  peck  of  peaches,  and  cut  them  in  two,  leaving  half  a 
dozen  with  ihe  stones  in.  If  you  have  more  paste,  cut  it  in 
slips,  and  put  it  in  with  the  peaches  ;  put  them  in  the  pot, 
strew  half  a  pound  of  sugar  over,  grate  nearly  a  nutmeg 
over,  cut  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  bits,  and  strew  ihem 
in,  add  a  teacup  of  water,  and  a  small  teas[)ooiifnl  of  salt, 
put  the  top  crust  over,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  cover  the 
pot,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  one  hour,  when  it  may 
be  put  in  a  hot  ove^i  to  brown.  Apples  or  cherries  may  be 
done  in  the  same  manner. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Make  a  short  cake  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  make  it  in  a 
sake  the  size  of  a  diimer  plate,  bake  it,  then  break  it 
through  the  middle,  make  a  pint  of  strawberries  licjuid  with 
sweet  crnam,  and  sweeten  with  while  sugar,  spread  it 
over  the  lower  part  of  the  cake,  put  the  top  over,  let  it  stand 
for  an  hour  then  cut  it  in  wedge  shape  pieces,  and  serve. 

PORK  AND  APPLE  PIE. 

Line  a  tin  wilh  a  pie  paste,  nearly  fill  it  with  peeled  and    i 
quartered  tart,  apples,  cover  it  with  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  '1 
pork,  add  pepper,  put  a  lop  crust  over,  and  bake  in  a  quick    ' 
oven  for  one  hour.     This  is  an  old-fashioned  farmer's  pie, 
and  eaten  wilh  ihe  addition  of  syrup,  a  \eiy  much  relished 
dinner. 

CRACKLINGS. 

Take  of  cold  veal  or  poultry,  and  one-half  as  much  ham, 
chopped  fine,  mix  wilh  them  an  equal  quantity  of  bread 


TOMATO  CATSUP.  4l9 

crumbs,  add  to  it  beaten  eggs  to  moisten  it,  make  it  in 
small  flat  cakes,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  sailed  lard  or 
beef  drippings.  Potatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  bread 
crumbs. 

NOODLES  AND    BEEFSTEAK 

Break  two  eg^s  into  wheat  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
paste,  then  roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  a  knife  blade,  let  it 
lay  half  an  hour,  then  strew  a  little  flour  over,  roll  it  up, 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  shave  across  it  as  fine  as  possible, 
put  them  into  boiling  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  take 
them  out  with  a  skiuimer.  Fry  a  fat  beefsteak  with  plenty 
of  gravy,  have  ready  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese, 
put  half  your  noodles  on  a  steak  dish,  strew  half  the  grated 
cheese  over,  lay  on  the  steak,  put  over  it  the  noodles  and 
the  remainder  of  the  cheese,  pour  the  gravy  over,  and 
serve.     The  cheese  may  be  omitted. 

TO  MAKE  NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Make  as  directed  above,  and  drop  them  into  the  soup 
fifteen  minutes  before  taking  it  up,  instead  of  putting  them 
in  boiling  water — they  are  preferred  to  macaroni  or  ver- 
micelli. 

TOMATO  CATSUP, 

Cut  one  bushel  of  tomatos  in  thin  slices,  and  put  them 
in  layers  in  an  earthen  vessel,  strewing  salt  between,  each 
layer,  one  quart  of  salt  for  the  whole  quantity;  let  them  re- 
main for  twelve  hours,  then  stew  ihem  slowly  until  quite 
soft,  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  them  again  to  stew, 
add  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard 
powder,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  four  ditto  cay- 
enne, two  ditio  alspice,  cloves  ditto;  let  it  simmer  for  one 
hour  and  a  half,  let  it  become  cold,  then  bottle  and  seal  it. 
A  porcelain  kettle,  or  an  earthen  pipkin,  is  the  only  safe  ' 
article  for  making  catsup,  the  action  of  tiie  acid  on  metals 
being  so  very  poisonous;  an  earthen  pipkin  of  yellow  ware^ 
is  decidedly  the  best  vessel  for  stewing  tomatos. 


ADDITIOML  IN  TWELFTH  THOUSAM). 


BKOAVIs^  GRAVY  SOUP. 

Put  into  a  soiip-pot  the  bones  of  roast  beef 
and  broiled  steak  bones,  together  with  the  rocTfc 
end  of  tongue,  poultry  giblets  and  carcass  and  a 
knuckle  of  veal  and  the  bone  of  a  ham — the 
meat  having  been  all  cut  oif — let  them  sim- 
mer with  water  to  cover  tliem  for  four  or  five 
hours  or  longer,  then  pour  it  through  a  colander 
into  a  deep  basin  or  stone  pot,  and  set  it  away  until 
the  next  day,  \<^^ien  take  ofi'  tlie  cake  of  fat  from 
the  top  and  pour  it  oft*  free  from  sediment;  put  it 
into  the  soup-pot,  add  a  blade  of  mace  and  three  or 
four  whole  cloves,  with  a  small  bit  of  dried  red 
peppei*,  thicken  with  two  or  three  table-spoonfulls 
of  nicely  browned  flour;  have  some  nicely  toasted 
bread  cut  into  dice  on  tlie  tureen,  and  pour  over 
the  soup. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  a  dozen  or  more  nice  fresli  mushrooms^ 
skin  them  and  wash  them  thoroughly  through  sev- 
eral waters,  then  having  taken  them  from  the  water 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  less  than  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  pepper,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  port  wine  or  water,  and  half  a  fable- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Cover  the  saucepan,  set  it  over 
the  flre,  shake  it  frequently,  dredge  in  a  tea-spoonful 
of  flour,  let  it  stew  about  twenty  minutes,  then  pour 
it  over  a  broiled  beefsteak,  and  serve  hot. 

TOMATOS  WITH  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  the  skins  from  a  dozen  ripe  tomatos, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  Avith  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt  and  the  same  of  pej^per,  add  a  small  bit  of  butter, 
dredge  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  (either  brow^ned  or 


i 


POTATO    CAKES.  421 

not  as  may  be  preferred),  let  tliem  stew  for  at  least 
half  an  hour,  then  having  broiled  and  nicely  seasoned 
a  beefsteak  as  previously  directed,  pour  over  the  to- 
matos  and  serve  hot.  A  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  put 
to  tlie  tomatos  whilst  stewing  is  considered  a  great 
improvement  by  some  tastes,  or  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made  mustard. 

TO  FEY  SAUSAGES. 

Original  and  superior  receipt. 

Put  the  sausages  into  a  frying  pan,  pour  boiling 
water  over  to  cover  them,  cover  the  pan  and  set 
them  on  the  back  of  the  fire  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes,  then  take  them  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer 
or  into  a  colander,  roll  each  one  singly  in  wheat  flour 
until  it  is  all  white,  then  having  a  frying  pan  with 
boiling  hot  lard  or  pork  fat,  put  in  the  sausages,  roll 
them  over  that  they  may  be  browned  on  every  side, 
then  serve  hot. 

TOMATOS  FEIED. 

Take  four  tomatos,  and  without  skinning  them 
cut  them  into  rather  thick  slices  (quarter  of  an  inch), 
flour  them,  make  a  little  butter  or  lard  hot  in  a  fry- 
ing pan,  put  in  the  sliced  tomatos,  and  when  one 
side  is  browned  turn  the  other  and  do  likewise,  serve 
in  a  dish  or  over  a  broiled  steak  or  chicken. 

POTATO  CAKES, 

To  serve  with  Roast  Duchs, 

Having  boiled  some  potatos,  chop  them  fine, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  to  one  dozen  large  sized 
potatos  put  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  break  into 
them  one  iVesli  egg,  then  stir  them  well  togeth^B| 
form  them  in  cakes  about  half  an  inch  thick,  ana^ 
put  them  in  the  pan  under  the  duck  (or  else  fry 
them),  and  serve  with  them. 


422  JRICE    CAKES. 

PEACHES  PRESEEV'D  WITHOUT  COOKIXG, 

To  equal  the  finest  Brandy  Peaches. 

Brush  the  down  from  the  peaclies  and  pnt  thenj 
into  a  deep  basin,  pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover 
them,  then  cover  it  with  a  thickly  folded  towel, 
let  it  remain  until  the  water  is  nearly  cold,  take 
them  out  one  by  one  and  rub  off  the  skins  with  a 
coarse  towel,  pnt  a  layer  of  tliem  in  the  jar  or  can, 
cover  them  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  best  pulverized 
white  sugar,  then  put  another  layer  of  peaches,  and 
peaches  and  sugar  alternately  until  the  jar  or  can  is 
full,  the  sugar  being  last,  and  immediately  close 
and  seal  them, — set  them  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Peaches  may  be  cut  in  halves,  or  smaller,  and 
done  in  the  same  manner.  See  pineapples  w^ithout 
cooking. 

Green  Gages  may  be  preserved  without  cooking, 
the  same  as  peaches. 

GREEN  CORN  FRITTERS. 

Cut  sugar  corn  from  the  cob,  scrape  whatever  of 
the  milk  of  the  corn  may  remain  on  the  cob  ; — to  a 
quart  bowl  of  the  cut  corn  put  a  tea  cup  of  wheat 
flour  and  two  beaten  eggs,  with  enough  milk  to  make 
a  batter ;  make  a  little  sweet  butter  hot  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  make  the  frittei's  of  a  table-spoonful  of  the 
batter ;  turn  them,  that  both  sides  may  be  nicely 
browned. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Tliese  are  made  of  cold  boiled  rice  with  eggs  and 

||klk,  and  a  very  little  wheat  flour  to  make  a  batter. 

^Bake  on  a  griddle  or  in  afryingpan,  with  nice  sweet 

butter,  for  breakfast  or  a  side  dish  at  dinner,  or  for 

dessert  with  ground  cinnamon  and  line  sugar. 


CREAM   OF  TARTAR   BISCUIT.  423 

COEX  STAECH  OR  FARmA. 

Made  as  directed  for  blanc  mange,  on  the  pack- 
ages, with  the  addition  of  a  little  lemon  or  vanilla 
flavor,  as  may  be  liked,  poured  into  moulds  tirst 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  set  on  ice  for  six  or  more 
hours.     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

POTATOS  BAKED  IN  CUPS. 

Mash  potatos  with  butter,  and  season- with  salt 
and  pej^per.  Butter  some  earthen  tea  cups  and  fill 
them  with  the  prepared  potato  and  bake  them  in  an 
oven.  Or,  having  shaped  them  in  cups  or  bowls, 
wet  them  over  with  beaten  egg  and  brown  them  in 
an  oven*or  before  the  fire;  or,  instead  of  the  egg, 
dredge  with  wheat  flour,  and  baste  with  a  little  but- 
ter. 

PEACH  FRITTERS. 
Made  the  same  as  apple  fritters. 

.      CREAM  OF  TARTAR  BISCUIT. 

To  a  quart  of  fine  wheat  flour  put  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  cream  tartar  and  one  of  soda,  rub  it  tlirough 
a  sieve,  add  a  tea  cup  of  sweet  butter,  work  it  through 
the  flour,  then  wet  it  into  a  paste  with  enough  sweet 
milk;  work  it  as  little  as  possible,  and  let  tlie  paste 
be  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled  out  on  a  well  floured  paste 
board,  let  them  be  an  inch  thick,  cut  them  in  small 
round  or  square  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Rolls  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  omitting 
the  butter  and  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  roll 
them  between  the  hands  in  cakes  the  length  of  a  fin- 
ger, and  bake. 


424"  LAUDED    SWEETBREAD. 

CKEAM  OF  TARTAE  COOKIES. 

To  a  quart  of  flour  put  two  tea -spoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  one  of  soda,  pass  it  through  a  sieve, 
add  to  it  two  tea  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  tea  cup 
of  butter,  and  one  or  two  eggs,  with  enough  milk  to 
make  it  a  paste,  add  a  grated  nutmeg,  roll  half  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  in  small  cakes. 

DELICIOUS  AND  DELICATE  MINCE  PIES. 

Boil  a  fine  piece  of  beef,  free  from  strings  or  fat ; 
when  it  is  tender  put  it  into  a  colander  and  let  it  be- 
come cold,  then  chop  it  very  fine,  put  to  it  enough 
of  the  very  best  Stuart's  syrup  to  slightly  moisten  it 
or  rather  hold  it  together,  add  to  it  ground  cinnamon 
or  cassia,  ground  cloves,  alspice  and  mace  or  nutmeg 
as  it  may  suit  the  taste  to  have  it  more  or  less  high- 
ly spiced  ;  pack  it  down  close  in  an  earthen  or  stone 
jar,  dip  a  bit  of  muslin  in  syrup  (one  side)  and  press 
it  upon  the  prepared  meat. — keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Wlien  wanted  for  use  take  a  pint  bowl  of  the  meat, 
add  to  it  a  quart  of  the  very  best  pippin  or  greening 
apples,  pared  and  chopped  not  too  finely,  put  to  it 
a  pint  of  the  best  Madeira  wine  and  a  wine  glass  of 
brandy,  a  tea  cup  of  nicely  cleaned  and  dried  zante 
currants,  and  the  same  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped, 
and  a  quarter  of  citron  cut  small ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether, add  enough  sugar  to  make  it  really  sw^eet, 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  paste.  Cider  of  the  best  sort 
may  be  used  instead  of  wine,  and  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  instead  of,  or  in  addition  to  the  brandy. 

LAPwDED  SWEETBEEAD: 

Parboil  two  or  three  SAveetbreads,  let  them  be- 
come cold,  then  lard  them  down  tlie  middle  with 
bits  of  fat  bacon,  and  on  each  side  with  bits  of  lem- 
on peel,  and  beyond  that  with  a  little  pickled  cucum- 


SWEETBREADS   STEWED.  425 

ber  cut  small,  then  stew  tliem  gently  under  a  rich 
gravy  thickened  with  a  little  flour,  add  a  little 
mushroom  powder,  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
a  little  salt,  and  a  squeeze  or  two  of  lemon  juice. 

SWEETBREADS  EOASTED. 

Trim  off  the  tongh  part,  then  scald  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  a  stewpan  of  water  and  a  little  salt  (the 
heart  sweetbreads),  then  take  them  out  into  a  basin 
of  cold  water  until  cool,  have  an  egg  beat  up  in  a 
dish,  and  also  have  ready  some  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  clarified  butter.  Run  a  skewer  through  the 
sweetbreads  and  fasten  on  the  spit,  egg  them  all 
over,  shake  bread  crumbs  over,  then  sprinkle  clari- 
fied butter  over,,  and  then  bread  crumbs  again  and 
roast  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  them  from 
the  skewer  and  make  a  gravy  of  butter  and  a  little 
browned  flour  with  hot  water  or  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  a  shake  of  cayenne.  Make  it  hot  and  serve 
in  the  dish  under  the  sweetbread. 


SWEETBREADS  FRIED. 

Prepare  them  as  for  roasting,  then  fry  in  butter 
made  hot,  turn  them  to  brown  them  nicely,  tlien 
make  a  little  grary  with  water  or  lemon  juice,  and 
serve. 

SWEETBREADS  STEWED. 

Parboil  them,  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  little  water  or  milk :  work  a  little  butter  and 
flour  together,  and  add  it  with  a  blade  or  two  ot 
mace,  some  salt  and  white  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a 
little'  chopped  parsley.  Garnish  with,  tliin  slices  at 
lemon. 


i 


426  TEAL   CAKES. 

VEAL    COLLOPS. 

Cut  t]\8  veal  from  the  leg  or  other  lean  parts  into 
pieces  tlie  size  of  a  lar^o^e  ovster  :  liave  a  seasoning 
of  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  gronnd  mace,  or  sweet 
herbs;  rub  some  over  each  ;  then  dip  them  into 
beaten  e^^g^  and  afterwards  into  fine  bread  crumbs 
or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  in  sweet  butter,  the 
same  as  oysters.  These  both  look  and  taste  like 
oysters. 

SWEETBREADS  LIKE  OYSTEES. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  tender  in  water  and  a  little 
salt ;  then  pound  or  mash  them  fine ;  add  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  lemon 
juice.  Season  them  nicely ;  th^n  add  enough 
beaten  egg  to  bind  all  together.  Make  tliem  in 
cakes  the  size  of  an  oyster,  and  fty  and  serve. 

WHITE  MIXCE  OF  VEAL. 

Chop  some  cold  veal  very  fine  ;  season  with  a 
little  mace,  Avhite  pepper,  and  a  little  w^ater,.^nd  a 
bit  of  butter  worked  to  a  paste  Avith  wheat  A^r'T^ 
cup  of  cream  may  bo  added  at  the  jas 

A  wine-glass  of  Madeira  or  Popf  wine,  instead  of 
the  cream,  may  be  added,  anii-lnakes  another  dish. 

VEAL  CAKES. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  lean  veal, 
'  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  half  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  chopped  fine,  a  little  mace,  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  very  little  white  onion.  Mix  these  together ; 
beat  them  well  in  a  mortar,  make  them  into  small 
cakes,  and  fry  thpni  a  iiice  ]3rown. 


MACCAPvONI   STVEET.  427 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

This  soup  IS  composed  of  carrots,  turnips,  leeks, 
onions,  celery,  cabbage,  parsley,  and  other  vegeta- 
bles :  the  roots  are  cut  in  thin  slips,  about  an  inch 
long  ;  the  vegetables  are  halved,  and  then  sliced. 
Fry  or  stew  the  roots  in  a  little  butter,  and  stew 
the  other  vegetables  in  a  little  of  the  broth,  before 
adding  all  the  broth.  For  a  Julienne  root  cutter, 
see  Berrian,  601  Broadway. 

MACCAKONI  WITH  CHEESE. 

Simmer  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  in  a 
quart  of  milk,  until  the  pipes  are  well  swelled  and 
tender  ;  then  butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  a  layer 
of  maccaroni  ;  strew  it  plentifully  with  grated 
cheese  and  bits  of  butter  ;  then  another  layer  of 
maccaroni,  and  grated  cheese  and  butter,  and  mac- 
caroni, alternately,  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  cheese 
being  last ;  then  put  over  the  whole  bits  of  butter, 
or  melt  the  butter  and  put  it  over  ;  then  put  it  into 
a  moderate  oven  until  it  is  nicely  browned.  Serve 
hot. 

The  cheese  for  this  purpose  should  be  cut  and 
allowed  to  become  dry  before  it  is  grated.  Pine- 
apple, or  old  English  or  Parmesan,  should  be  used. 
The  milk  in  w^kich  the  maccaroni  is  steeped  must 
also  be  added,  if  not  all  absorbed.    * 

MACCAEONI  SWEET. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  maccaroni  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon. 
When  the  pipes  are  swelled  to  their  utmost  size 
without  breaking,  lay  them  on  a  custard  dish  ;  pour 
a  custard  over  them  whilst  hot.     Serve  cold. 


428  CORN   STAECH. 

FARIXA  PUDDING. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  farina  kettle  :  when  it 
is  boiling  hot,  stir  in  enougli  of  the  dry  farina,  stir- 
ring it  all  the  time,  to  make  it  quite  thick.  Add  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  it  has  boiled  for 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour,  take  it  from  the 
fire,  have  ready  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten 
smooth  :  stir  the  hot  farina  with  a  spoon,  adding 
by  degrees  the  beaten  yolks,  and  stirring  it  vig- 
orously all  the  time,  that  it  may  be  well  blended. 
Butter  a  pudding  dish  large  enough  to  contain  it, 
pour  it  in,  and  brown  it  in  a  hot  or  quick  oven,  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 

Wine,  Brandy,  or  Lemon  Sauce.     See  page  240. 

This  is  an  original  receipt,  and  makes  a  most  del- 
icate pudding,  superior  to  cocoanut,  but  having  that 
peculiar  flavor. 

FARINA. 

This  most  excellent  article  of  food,  may  be  pre- 
pared in  a  variety  of  ways.  Made  as  directed  in 
the  preceding  receipt,  before  adding  the  eggs,  with 
the  addition  of  a  little  sugar  and  lemon  or  vanilla 
flavor,  or  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  (boiled  in  the  milk 
before  adding  the  farina,)  and  served  cold  with 
sweet  cream,  it  is  one  of  the  most  acceptable  of  sum- 
mer desserts.  Dip  a  jelly  mould  flrst  in  cold  water, 
pour  in  the  boiled  farina,  and  when  cold  set  it  on 
ice.  .  Serve  the  following  day. 

Farina  may  be  colored  yellow  with  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  and  served  in  the  same  manner.  The 
mould  should  be  an  ear  of  corn  when  this  is  done. 

CORN  STARCH 
May  be  prepared  and  served  the  same  as  farina. 


CHICKEN    SALAD.  429 

CORN  STAECH  CUSTAED. 

Set  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil,  (use  a  farina  kettle,) 
to  three  well-beaten  eggs  add  a  large  tea-spoonful 
of  corn  starch,  beat  it  smooth,  then  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  milk  ;  continue  to  stir  it,  and  let  it  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  ;  then  turn  it  into  a  china  dish,  or 
when  cooled,  a  glass  bowl.  Set  it  in  a  cold  place, 
or  on  ice.  Having  beaten  the  white  of  the  eggs  to 
a  high  froth  with  a  table-spoonful  or  two  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  heap  it  on  before  serving. 

The  corn  starch  should  be  sweetened  to  taste,  and 
flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

APPLE  PUDDING.  ^^-^ 

Grate  a  stale  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  butter  'a  pud- 
ding dish  well  with  sweet  butter,  strew  it  plenti- 
fully with  bread  crumbs  ;  then  having  cored  and 
sliced  rich  tart  or  sour  apples,  (pippins  or  greenings 
are  best,)  put  a  layer  of  tliem  on  the  bread  ;  strew 
plentifully  with  light  brown  sugar  and  bits  of  but- 
ter, w^ith  grated  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  ;  then  another 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  apples,  bread,  &c.,  alter- 
nately, until  the  dish  is  full — the  bread  and  butter 
and  spice  being  the  last.  Bake  two  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

This  is  a  delicious  pudding. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken,  either  boiled, 
roasted,  or  fricasseed  ;  cut  it  small,  or  mince  it  fine  ; 
take  the  same  quantity  or  more  of  w4iite  tender  cel- 
ery, cut  small ;  mix  the  celery  and  chicken  together 
an  liour  or  two  before  it  is  wanted  ;  then  add  the 
salad  dressing,  (see  page  186.)  Mix  the  w^hole  to- 
gether, put  it  on  a  dish,  make  it  in  an  oval  form, 
spread  some  of  the  dressing  over  the  outside.     Gar- 


4:30  SOFT    CRABS. 

nish  with  the  most  delicate  leaves  of  celery  around 
the  edge,  and  the  white  of  the  egg  cut  in  rings, 
and  green  pickles  cut  in  thin  lengthwise  slices — 
small  cucnmber  pickles  are  to  be  used.  Pickled 
beets  may  be  added,  cut  in  slices,  and  then  in  dia- 
monds or  stars,  alternately  with  the  green  pickles 
and  eggs. 

LOBSTER    SALAD 

Must  be  made  and  dressed  in  the  same  manner 
as  directed  for  chicken  salad,  adding  the  green 
inside  and  soft  parts  of  the  lobster,  and  garnish  with 
the  small  claws  of  lobster. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatos  in  square  pieces,  rather 
Bmall,  and  dress  tlie  same  as  any  other  salad. 

Lettuce,  celery,  potatos,  water-cresses,  or  cal^- 
bage,  with  cold  boiled  beets,  green  pickles,  may  be 
used  for  salads. 

SOFT  CRABS. 

Scald  the  crabs  :  take  off  the  claws  and  spongy 
part  and  sand  ;  wipe  tliem  dry,  and  broil  or  fry 
them  nicely.  Season  with  sweet  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt. 

SUET  FRUIT  PUDDIKG. 

WITHOUT   EGGS. 

To  one  pound  of  wlieat  Hour,  ac^ld  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  cream  of  tartaj-,  and  hah'  as  niucli  sodii — rub 
it  through  a  sieve  ;  chop   one  pound   of  beef  suet 


COKJS    JBKEAD.  431 

finely,  free  it  from  strings  and  shreds,  and  put  it  to 
tlie  flour  with  a  pound  of  chopped  raisins  or  cur- 
rants, one  teacup  of  syrup,  one  table-spoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  half  a  table-spoonful  of  allspice, 
and  the  same  of  cloves,  Mntli  a  little  ground  mace 
or  nutmeg;  tie  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  three 
hours — serve  with  brandy  sauce.  Citron  may  be 
added,  or  the  pudding  may  be  made  with  it  alone. 

DELICIOUS  COEN  BPwEAD. 

Measure  a  quart  of  sweet,  freshly  ground  corn 
meal,  add  to  it  a  large  teacup  of  wheat  flour,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda  in  powder ;  work  the  whole  throngh  a  sieve, 
then  add  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  butter,  and 
tlie  same  of  syrup ;  add  three  well  beaten  eggs  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  batter;  beat  it  well — it 
should  not  be  much  thicker  batter  than  griddle 
cakes.  Butter  tin  pans  or  basins,  till  them  an  inch 
or  more  deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  one 
hour  or  more.     This  cannot  be  surpassed. 

^      STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

Beat  together  a  large  table-spoonful  of  butter 
with  two  of  sugar;  add  one  well  beaten  ogg;  rub 
two  even  tea-spoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar  in  three 
cups  of  flower  and  add  them;  dissolve  one  even 
tea-spoon  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  milk,  add  it  last; 
bake  in  a  flat  pan  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done 
let  it  get  cold,  cut  in  three  layers  or  in  half^  as 
you  please,  cover  one  layer  with  strawberries, 
sprinkle  them  wdth  sugar;  put  on  a  layer  of  the 
cake,  put  another  layer  of  strawberries  and  sugar, 
lay  on  the  top  layer  and  dust  sugar  over. 

The  strawberries  are  (I  think)  nicer  if  a  syrup 
is  made  by  putting  three  large  spoonsful  of  sugar 
in  one  and  a  half  gills  of  water;  let  it  dissolve 


432  TERPvAPIXS. 

from  the  fire,  put  the  berries  in,  shake  them  well, 
and  when  cool  put  on  the  cake  in  layers. 
PAN'D  OYSTERS. 

Take  fifty  large  oysters,  rinse  them  with  a 
little  clean  water  and  let  them  drain.  Then  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  sufficient  salt ;  red  and  black  pepper 
to  season  them  well.  Put  the  pan  over  a  clear 
fire  and  stir  while  cooking.  When  the  oysters 
begin  to  shrink,  remove  them  from  the  fire,  and 
serve  immediatelv  in  a  well  heated  covered  dish. 
TERPvAPIXS. 

Take  four  terrapins  and  let  them  simmer  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes;  then 
take  them  Jut,  and  remove  the  nails  and  loose 
skin.  Throw  out  the.water  just  used,  rinse  the 
kettle  tlioroujxlilv  and  fill  it  asrain  with  clean 
salted  water,  boiling  hot;  then  wash  the  terrapins 
in  Avarm  water,  return  them  to  the  kettle,  and 
let  them  boil  until  thoroughly  tender.  The  time 
required  to  boil  a  terrapin  vrill  depend  somewhat 
upon  its  size  and  age,  but  v»dicn  it  is  done  sufli- 
ciently,  the  body  will  split  at  the  side,  and  the 
chuvs  become  very  tender.  When  done,  take 
them  out  of  the  kettle  and  let  them  get  cool; 
then  remove  the  shells,  and  carefully  clean  the 
terrapins,  being  very  particular  to  remove  the 
gall,  sandbag,  entrails  and  all  tlic  spongy  parts. 
Cut  the  meat  xery  fine,  place  it  in  a  stew-pan 
witli  three  tea-spoonsful  of  fiower,  mixed  with  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  until  thoroughly  smooth  ; 
then  put  the  pan  over  a  clear  fire,  and  season 
with  salt,  red  and  black  pepper.  When  it  comes 
to  boil  add  half  a  innt  of  Madeira  wine.  Let  it 
simmer  a  few  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  it 
well :  remove  from  tlie  lire,  and  serve  it  in  a  \vc\\ 
heated  covered  disli.  For  tvv'o  terrapins  use  only 
half  the  above  iniicredients.  • 


BEEF MUTTON. 

BEEF. 


The  Sirloin. 

Tiie  Rump,  or  Round. 

Edge-Boiie. 

Butiock. 

Mouse-Buttock. 

Leg. 

Tiuck  Flank. 

Veiny  Piece. 

Plate  Piece. 

Ribs. 

I^riine  Ribs. 

Chuck  Ribs. 

Bri.-ket. 

Shoulder. 

Clod. 

Neck. 

Shin. 

Head. 


MUTTON. 


a  Leg.  d  Loin. 

b  Shoulder.  e  INeck. 

e  Loin.  /  Breast, 

28  S 


434 


VEAL PORK. 


VEAL, 


^HmK^St 

m 

Loin,  best  end. 

c 

Chump  End. 

b 

Fillet. 

d 

Knuckle. 

e 

Neck,  best  end. 

f 

Breust  best  end. 

h 

Knuckle. 

g 

Blade-Bone. 

J 

Scrag,  or  Neck. 

I 

Breast. 

PORK. 


\ 


Ham. 

Hind  Loin. 
Fore  Loin. 
Spare-Rib. 
Hand,  or  Spring 
Belly. 


HINTS 

ON    THE 

ETIQUETTE  OF  THE  DINNER  TABLE. 


Without  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  art  of  carving,  it  is  im- 
po5sil>le  to  perform  the  honors  of  the  tahle  with  propriety  ;  and 
nothing  can  l)e  more  disagreeahle  to  one  of  a  sensitive  disposi- 
tion, than  to  hehold  a  person,  at  the  liead  of  a  well-furnished 
board,  hacking  the  finest  joints,  and  giving  them  the  appear 
ance  of  having  been  gnawed  by  dogs. 

It  also  merits  attention  in  an  economical  point  of  view;  a 
bad  carver  will  mangle  joints  so  as  not  to  be  able  to  fill  half  a 
dozen  plates  from  a  sirloin  of  beef,  or  a  large  tongue;  which, 
besides  creatinjr  a  grent  ditference  in  the  daily  consumption  iu 
families,  often  occasions  disgust  in  delicate  persons,  causing 
them  to  loathe  the  provisions,  however  good,  which  are  set  be- 
fore them,  if  helped  in  a  clumsy  manner. 

One  cannot,  therefore,  too  strongly  urge  the  study  of  this 
useful  branch  of  domestic  economy  ;  and  I  doubt  not  that 
whoever  pays  due  attention  to  the  following  instructions,  will, 
after  a  little  practice,  without  which  all  precept  is  unavailing, 
speedily  acquire  the  reputation  of  being  a  good  carver. 

A  few  hints  are  prefixed  on  the  etiquette  of  tlie  dinner  table, 
which  will  be  found  useful.  In  that,  however,  much  must  be 
left  to  a  quick  and  observant  eye,  and  a  determination  to  ren- 
der yourself  as  agreeable  as  possible. 

\s  Host. — The  important  day  on  which  you  feast  your 
friends  being  arrived,  you  will  be  duly  prepared  to  receive  the 
first  detachment.  It  were  almost  needless  to  observe  that  the 
brief  interval  before  dinner  is  announced,  may  be  easily  filled 
up  by  the  common-place  inquiries  after  health,  and  observa- 
tions on  the  weather  ;  as  the  company  increases,  provided 
they  were  previously  acquainted,  you  will  find  your  labors  in 
keeping  up  the  conversation  very  agreeably  diminished. 

While  your  guests  are  awaiting  the  announcenaent  of  din- 


436  HINTS    ON    ETIQUETTE. 

ner,  it  will  be  expedient  that  you  should  intimate  to  the  gen* 
tlemcn  of  the  party,  as  unobtrusively  as  possible,  which  lady 
you  wish  each  to  take  in  charge,  that,  when  the  moment 
arrives  for  your  adjournment  to  the  dining-room,  there  may 
not  be  half  a  dozen  claimants  for  the  honor  of  escorting  lajdus 
belle  of  the  parly,  while  some  plain  demoiselle  is  under  the 
painful  necessity  of  escorting  herself.  Such  a  scene  as  this 
should  be  carefully  provided  against  by  the  mode  above  sug- 
gested. 

When  dinner  is  announced,  you  will  rise  and  request  your 
friends  to  proceed  to  the  dining-room,  yourself  leading  the 
way,  in  company  with  your  most  distinguished  female  visitor, 
followed  immediately  by  the  hostess,  accompanied  by  the  gen- 
tleman who  has  the  best  claim  to  such  an  honor.  The  re- 
mainder of  the  guests  then  follow,  each  gentleman  accompa- 
nied by  the  lady  previously  pointed  out  to  him. 

Arrived  at  the  dining-room,  you  will  request  the  lady  whom 
you  conducted  to  take  her  seat  on  your  right  hand  ;  then, 
standing  behind  your  chair,  you  will  direct  all  your  visitors  to 
their  respective  seats. 

Having  taken  your  seat,  you  will  now  dispatch  soup  to  each 
of  your  guests,  from  the  pile  of  plates  placed  on  your  right 
hand,  without  questioning  any  wh«ther  you  shall  help  them  or 
not;  but,  dealing  it  out  silently,  you  will  first  help  the  person 
at  your  right  hand,  then  at  your  left,  and  so  throughout  the 
table. 

You  will  not  ask  to  be  allowed  to  help  your  guests,  but  sup- 
ply a  plate  in  silence,  and  hand  it  to  your  servants,  who  will 
offer  it  to  such  of  the  company  as  are  unprovided.  Never 
off*er  soup  or  fish  a  second  time. 

If  a  dish  be  on  the  table,  some  parts  of  which  are  preferred 
to  others,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  individuals,  all  should 
have  the  opportunity  of  choice.  You  will  simply  ask  each 
one  if  he  has  any  preference  for  a  particular  part ;  if  he  re- 
plies in  the  negative,  you  are  not  to  repeat  the  question,  nor 
insist  that  he  must  have  a  preference. 

Do  not  attempt  to  eulogize  your  dishes,  or  apologize  that 
you  cannot  recommend  them, — this  is  extreme  bad  taste ;  as 
also  is  the  vaunting  of  the  excellence  of  your  wines,  &lc.  &c. 

Do  not  insist  upcui  your  guests  partaking  of  particular 
dishes.  Do  not  ask  [>ersons  more  than  once,  and  never  force 
a  supply  upon  their  plates.  It  is  ill-bred,  thouj;h  common,  to 
press  any  one  to  eat ;  and,  moreover,  it  is  a  great  annoyance 
to  be  crammed  like  turkeys.  • 

Neither  send  away  your  plate,  nor  relinquish  your  knife  and 
fork,  till  your  guests  have  finished. 


HINTS    ON    ETIQUETTE.  437 

Soup  heiuj;  removed,  the  gentleman  %vho  supports  the  lady 
of  the  house  on  her  right,  should  request  the  liouor  of  taking 
wine  with  her;  this  movement  will  be  the  signal  for  the  rest. 
Should  he  neglect  to  do  this,  you  must  challenge  some  lady. 

Until  the  cloth  be  removed,  you  must  not  drink  wine  except 
with  another,  [f  you  are  asked  to  take  wine,  it  is  a  breach  of 
etiquette  to  refuse.  In  performing  this  ceren.ony,  (which  is 
lery  agreeable  if  the  wine  be  good,)  you  catch  the  person's 
eye,  and  bow  politely.     It  is  not  necessary  to  say  anything. 

If  you  have  children,  never  introduce  them  after  dinner,  un- 
less particularly  asked  for,  and  then  avoid  it  if  possible. 

Never  make  any  observations  to  your  servants  at  dinner, 
other  than  to  request  them  to  provide  you  with  what  you  re* 
quire,  or  to  take  away  that  which  may  be  removed. 

With  the  dessert,  you  will  have  a  small  plate,  two  wine- 
glas:?es,  and  doylts,  placed  before  each  guest.  If  fresh  fruit 
be  on  the  table,  as  pears,  apples,  nectarines,  &cc.,  a  knife  with 
a  silver  or  silver-plated  blade  should  be  placed  by  the  side  of 
each  plate;  a  steel  blade,  in  addition  to  being  discolored  by  the 
jiiices,  imparts  an  unpleasant  flavor  to  the  fruit. 

As  Guest. — To  dme  out,  it  is  usually  understood  that  you 
must  be  invited  ;  there  are,  however,  some  gentlemen,  who 
have  attained  to  that  high  degree  of  refinement  which  enables 
them  to  dispense  with  such  a  stupid  ceremony.  They  drop 
in  as  dinner  is  being  served  up,  when  it  is  impossible  that  the 
party  on  whom  they  intrude  can  do  other  than  request  them  to 
stay  and  dine,  though  we  suspect  he  has  a  much  stronger  in- 
clinatio?i  to  kick  the  unwelcome  guest  into  the  street. 

We  would  recommend  you  to  eschew  such  practices ;  but 
when  invited,  return  an  answer  in  plain  terms,  accepting  or 
declining.  If  you  accept,  be  there  at  the  appointed  time.  It 
is  inconvenient,  on  many  accounts,  to  yourself  and  to  your 
friends,  either  to  be  too  lale  or  too  early. 

You  will  probably  have  to  wait  a  little  time  before  dinner  13 
announced.  During  this  short  period,  render  yourself  as 
agreeable  as  possible  to  the  assembled  company. 

Your  host  will  doubtless  point  out  to  you  the  lady  he  wishes 
you  to  escort  to  the  dining-room.  You  will  be  in  readiness  to 
attend  upon  her  the  moment  you  are  summoned  to  adjourn. 
Offer  her  your  right  arm,  and  follow  in  order.  Should  you 
have  to  pass  down  stairs,  you  will  give  the  lady  the  wall.  You 
will  take  your  seat  at  the  table  on  the  right  hand  of  the  lady 
you  conducted. 

Being  seated,  soup  will  be  handed  round.  When  offered, 
take  it ;  but  if  you  prefer  fish,  pass  it  on  to  your  neighbor* 


438  HINTS    ON    ETIQUETTE. 

You  musv  not  ask  for  soup  or  fish  a  second  time;  it  will  not 
be  offered — you  would  not  Le  so  rude  or  selfish  as  to  keep  the- 
company  waiting  lor  the  second  course,  that  you  may  have 
the  pleasure  of  demolishing  a  t'ouble  portion  offish. 

Fish  must  b?  ejjten  with  a  silver  fork,  as  the  acid  in  the 
Bauce.  acting  on  the  steel  of  an  ordinary  fork,  gives  an  nn- 
j/leasant  flavor  to  the  dish.  For  this  reason,  also,  a  knife 
should  not  he  useil  in  eating  fish. 

If  asked  uheiher  you  have  a  preference  for  any  dish,  or  any 
particular  part  of  a  dish,  answer  plainly  and  distinctly  as  you 
ivish. 

Pay  as  much  attention  to  your  companion  on  your  left,  as 
politeness  requires,  but  do  not  he  unnecessar.ly  oificious. 
People  do  not  like  to  be  stared  at  when  eating. 

\\  hen  you  are  helped  to  anything,  do  not  wait  until  the  rest 
of  the  compai^^  are  provided.  This  is  very  common  in  the 
country,  hut  shows  a  want  of  good  breeding. 

Do  not  allow  your  plate  lobe  overloaded  with  a  multifarious 
assortment  cf  vegetables,  but  rather  confine  yourself  to  one 
kind.  \Vhen  you  take  another  sort  of  meat,  or  a  dish  not  pri^- 
perly  a  vegetable,  you  must  change  your  plate. 

If  you  have  the  honor  of  sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
hostess,  you  will,  immediately  on  the  removal  of  soup,  request 
the  honor  of  taking  wine  with  her. 

Finally,  to  do  all  these  things  well,  and  to  be  au  fait  at  a 
dinner  party,  he  perfectly  at  you  ease.  To  he  at  ease  is  a 
great  step  towards  enjoying  your  own  dinner,  and  making 
yourself  agreeable  to  the  company.  Fancy  yourself  at  home  ; 
performing  all  the  ceremonies  without  any  appureui  effort. 
For  the  rest,  observation  and  your  own  judgment  will  be  the 
best  guide,  and  render  you  perfect  in  the  etiquette  of  the  din- 
Der- table. 


CARVING.  439 


CARVING. 


In  carving,  your  knife  should  not  be  too  heavy,  but  of  a  suf- 
ficient size,  iuu\  keen  edj;e.  In  using  it,  no  great  persoaal 
strength  is  required,  as  constant  practice  will  render  it  an  easy 
task  to  carve  the  most  diHicult  articles  ;  more  depending  on 
address  than  force. 

The  dish  should  be  sufficiently  near  to  enable  the  carver  to 
reach  it  without  rising,  and  the  seat  should  be  elevated  so  as 
to  give  command  over  the  joint. 

►Show  no  partiality  in  serving,  but  let  each  person  have  a 
share  of  such  articles  as  are  considered  best ;  for  however  you 
conciliate  the  one  you  favor,  you  must  bear  in  miud  that  you 
make  enemies  of  the  other  guests. 


FISH 

Requires  very  little  carving.  It  should  be  carefully  helped 
with  a  fish-slice,  which,  not  being  sharp,  prevents  the  flakes 
from  being  broken  ;  and  in  salmon  and  cod  these  are  large, 
and  add  much  to  their  beauty.  A  portion  of  the  roe,  milt  or 
liver  should  be  given  to  each  person. 


MackereL 

In  helping,  first  cut  off  the  head  at  1,  as  that  part  is  very 
inferior  and  unsavory  :  then  divide  down  the  back,  and  give  a 
side  to  each.  If  less  is  asked  for,  the  thickest  end,  which  is 
the  most  choice,  should  be  served.  Inquire  if  the  roe  is  liked. 
It  may  be  found  between  1  and  2,  That  of  the  female  is  hard, 
of  the  male,  soft. 


440  CARVING. 


LiilMiiiiiiMli 

Salmon 

Js  rarely  sent  to  the  table  whole,  but  a  piece  cut  from  the 
iiliddle  of  a  large  fish,  which  is  the  best  flavored  part  of  it. 
Make  an  incision  along  the  back  1-2,  and  another  from  5-6  ; 
then  divide  the  side  about  the  middle,  in  the  line  3-4  ;  cut  the 
thickest  part,  between  1-3,  2-4,  for  the  lean,  the  remainder 
for  the  fat.  Ask  which  is  preferred,  and  help  as  the  fancy  of 
your  guests  may  demand.  When  the  fish  is  very  thick,  do  not 
venture  too  near  the  bone,  as  there  it  has  an  ill  flavor,  and  is 
discolored. 

In  paying  your  respects  to  a  whole  Salmon,  you  will  find  the 
choice  parts  next  the  head,  the  thin  part  next ;  the  tail  is  con- 
sidered less  savory. 

Carp,  Perch,  Haddock,  Etc. 

will  be  easily  helped,  by  attending  to  the  foregoing  directions. 
The  head  of  the  Carp  is  esteemed  a  delicacy,  which  should  be 
borne  in  mind. 


Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders, 

Introduce  the  fish-slice  at  I,  and  cut  quite  through  the  back, 
as  far  as  2.  Then  help  pieces  from  between  3  and  4;  and 
with  each  slice  give  a  portion  of  the  sound,  which  lines  the 
under  side  of  the  back  bone.  It  is  thin,  and  of  a  darker  color 
than  the  other  part  of  the  fish,  and  is  esteemed  a  delicacy. 

Some  persons  are  partial  to  the  tongue  and  palate,  for  which 
vou  must  insert  a  spoon  into  the  mouth.     The  jelly  part  is 


CARVING.  441 

anout  the  jaw  ;  tho  firm  part  within  the  head,  on  which  are 
Bome  other  delicate  pickings  ;  theiiacst  portious  maybe  found 
about  the  shoulders. 


Tttrbot. 

The  under  side  of  this  fish  is  the  most  esteemed,  and  is 
placed  uppermost  on  the  dish.  The  fish-slice  must  be  intro- 
duced at  1,  and  an  incision  made  as  far  as  2  ;  then  cut  from 
the  middle,  which  is  the  primest  part.  After  helping  the  w  hole 
of  that  side,  the  upper  part  must  be  attacked,  and  as  it  is  dif- 
ficult to  divide  the  backbone,  raise  it  with  the  fork,  while  you 
separate  a  portion  with  the  fish-slice.  This  part  is  more  solid, 
and  is  preferred  by  some,  though  it  is  less  delicate  than  the 
under  side.  The  fina  are  esteemed  a  nicety,  and  should  be  at- 
tended to  accordingly. 

Brill^  Soles,  Plaice, 

and  flat  fish  in  general,  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner  na 
a  Turbot. 

JOINTS. 

In  helping  the  more  fleshy  joints,  such  as  a  Sirloin  of  Beef, 
Leg  of  IVlutton,  Fillet  of  V^eal,  cut  thin  smooth  slices,  and  let 
the  knife  pass  through  to  the  bones  of  Mutton  and  Beef. 

It  would  prevent  much  trouble,  if  the  joints  of  the  loin,  neck 
and  Ireast.  were  cut  through  by  the  butcher,  previous  to  the 
cookin;;,  so  that  \vhc*n  sent  to  table,  they  maybe  easily  severed. 
Should  the  whole  of  the  meat  belonging  to  each  bone  be  too 
thick,  one  or  more  slices  may  be  taken  oti*  between  every  two 
bones. 

In  some  boiled  joints,  round  and  aitch-bone  of  beef  for  in- 
stance, the  water  renders  the  outsides  vapid,  and  of  course  un 

S* 


442  CARVIXG. 

fit  to  be  eaten  ;  you  will  therefore  be  particular  to  cut  off  and 
lay  asiiie  a  thick  slice  iVorn  the  top,  before  you  begin  to  serve. 

Saddle  of  Mutton. 

This  is  an  excellent  joint,  and  produces  many  nice  bits.  Cut 
the  vvha^e  length  of  it  close  to  the  back  bone,  and  take  o/T 
some  long  thin  slices  in  that  direction.  The  upper  division 
consists  of  lean ;  the  fat  may  be  easily  got  at  by  cutting  frona 
left  side. 


V 


Shoulder  of  Muttoiu 

Cut  in  to  the  bone  at  the  line  1,  and  help  thin  slices  of  lean 
from  each  side  of  the  incision;  the  prime  part  of  the  fat  lies 
at  the  oyter  edge,  at  2. 

Should  more  meat  he  required  than  can  be  got  from  that 
part,  cut  on  either  side  of  the  line  3,  which  represents  the 
blade  bone,  and  some  j^ood  and  delicate  slices  may  be  procured. 
By  cutting  horizontally  from  the  underside,  many  *'  aice  bits*' 
will  be  obtained. 

Loin  of  MiUton* 

As  the  bones  of  this  joinrt  are  divided,  it  is  very  e«a8i1y  man- 
aged. Hegin  at  the  narrow  end,  and  take  otTlhe  chops;  when 
the  joints  are  cut  through,  some  slices  of  meat  may  be  obtaiued 
between  the  bones. 

Haunch  of  Mutton, 

consists  of  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin,  cut  so  as  to  resemble  a 
hanuch  of  venison.  It  must  be  helped  at  table  in  a  similar 
mauuer. 


CARVING. 


443 


Leg  of  Mutton. 

The  finest  part  is  situated  in  the  centre,  at  1,  between  tho 
knuckle  and  farther  end  ;  insert  the  knife  there,  and  cut  thin, 
deep  slices  each  way,  as  far  in  as  2.  The  outside  rarely  beinj; 
very  fat,  some  neat  cuts  may  he  obtained  off  the  broad  end, 
at  »1  The  knuckle  of  a  fine  lej^  is  tender,  thoui;h  dry,  and 
many  prefer  it,  althouj^h  the  other  is  the  most  juicy.  There 
are  some  good  cuts  on  the  brond  end  of  the  back  of  the  leg, 
from  which  slices  may  be  procured  lengthways. 

The  cramp  bane  is  by  some  esteemed  a  delicacy  ;  to  get  it 
out,  cut  down  to  the  thigh  bone,  at  4,  aud  pass  the  knife  under 
it  in  a  semicircular  course,  to  5. 


Fore  Quarter  of  l^amb. 

Fhst  divide  the  shoulder  from  the  scoven,  whichconsists 
of  the  breast  and  ribs,  by  passing  the  knife  under  theKmickle, 
in  the  direction  of  J,  2,  3  and  cutting  so  as  to  leave  a  fair  por- 
tion of  meat  on  the  ribs  ;  lay  it  (n  a  separate  dish;  the  other  part, 
which,  after  being  sprinkled  over  w  itb  |>epperaml  salt,  should  be 
divided  in  tfie  line  ^^-4.  'i  his  will  separate  the  ribs  from  the 
gristly  part,  and  you  rr;ay  help  from  either,  as  may  be  chosen, 
cutting  as  directed  by  the  lines  5,  6. 


444 


CARVING. 


Shoulder  of  Lamb 

must  be  carved  like  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  ot  which  it  is  a 
miniature  edition. 

Leg  of  Lamb, 

Follow  the  directions  given  for  leg  of  mutton,  at  page  422. 

Loin  of  Lamb 

^^fy  be  helped  similar  to  a  loin  of  mutton.  See  page  421. 
This,  and  the  two  foregoing,  l>eing  small  joints,  should  be 
helped  sparingly,  as  there  is  very  little  meat  on  them,  espe- 
cially when  first  in  season. 


^  Aitch-Bont  of  Beef 

Cut  off  and  lay  aside  a  thick  slice  from  the  entire  surface,  as 
marked  1-2,  then  help.  There  are  two  sorts  of  fat  to  this 
joint,  and.  as  tastes  differ,  it  is  necessary  to  learn  which  is  pre- 
ferred. The  solid  fat  will  be  found  at  3,  and  must  be  cut  hori- 
zontally ;  the  softer,  which  resembles  marrow,  at  the  back  of 
the  bone,  below  4. 

A  siUer  skewer  should  be  substituted  for  the  one  which 
keeps  the  meat  properly  together  while  boiling,  and  it  may  be 
withdrawn  when  you  cut  down  to  it. 

Round  of  Beef, 

This  joint  is  so  very  easy  to  attend  to,  that  wo  have  not 
deemed  it  necessary  to  give  a  draw  ing  of  it ;  it  only  requires  a 
steady  hand  and  a  sharp  knife.  The  upper  surface  being 
removed,  as  directed  for  the  aitch-bone  of  beef,  carve  thin 
slices,  and  give  a  portion  of  fat  with  each. 

You  must  cut  the  meat  as  even  as  possible,  as  it  is  of  conse 
nuence  lu  preserve  the  beauty  of  its  appearance. 


CARVING. 


U5 


Sirloin  of  Beef»  ^^ 

There  are  two  modes  of  helping  this  joint.  The  better  way 
is  by  carving  long  thin  slices  from  I  to  2;  the  other  way  ia  by 
cutting  it  across,  which,  however,  spoils  it.  The  most  tender 
and  prime  part  is  in  the  direction  of  the  line  3 ;  there  will  also 
be  found  some  delicate  fat,  part  of  which  should  be  given  with 

Ribs  of  Beef 

may  he  carved  similar  to  the  sirloin,  always  commencing  at  tho 
thin  end  of  the  joiot,  and  cutting  long  slices,  so  as  t%  give  fat  and 
lean  together. 


A  Breast  of  Veal 

is  composed  of  the  ribs  and  brisket,  which  must  be  separated  by 
cutting  through  the  line  1-2  ;  the  latter  is  the  thickest  and  has 
gristles.  Divide  each  portion  into  convenient  pieces  and  pro- 
ceed to  help. 

1 


A  Tongue, 


Cut  nearly  through  the  middle,  at  the  line  1,  and  take  thm 
pJices  from  each  side.  The  fat  is  situated  underneath,  at  the 
-cot  of  the  tongue. 


446 


CARVING. 


0  A  CaJfs  Head. 

Cut  thin  slices  from  1  to  2,  and  let  the  knife  penetraie  to  ine 
bone.  At  the  thick  part  of  the  neck  end,  3,  the  throat  sweet- 
bread is  situated  ;  carve  slices  from  3  to  4,  and  help  with  the 
other  part.  Should  the  eye  be  asked  for,  it  must  be  extracted 
with  the  point  of  the  knife,  and  a  portion  ^iven.  The  palate, 
esteeinctl  a  delicacy,  is  situated  untler  the  head,  and  some  fine 
lean  may  be  found  by  removing  the  jaw-bone  ;  portions  of  each 
of  these  should  be  helped  round. 

A  Loin  of  Veal 

should  be  joioted  previous  to  being  sent  to  table,  when  each  di  - 
vision  may  be  easily  cut  through  with  a  knife.  The  fat  sur- 
rounds the  kidney,  and  portions  of  each  should  be  given  with  tho 
other  parts. 


^.^^^  Filltt  of  Vtal 

resembles  a  round  of  beef,  cind  should  be  carved  similar  to  it, 
in  thin  and  very  smooth  slices,  off  the  top.  Cut  deep  into  the 
flap,  between  1  and  2,  for  the  stulfing,  and  help  a  portion  of  i! 
to  each  person 

Slices  of  lemon  are  always  served  with  this  dish. 


CARVINa. 


447 


•=^;^ 


^^-^<^ 


Roast  Pig. 

As  this  is  usually  divided  as  above,  !»efore  sent  to  table,  lit- 
tle remains  to  be  done  by  ?he  carver.  First  separate  a  shoul- 
der from  the  body,  and  then  the  leg  :  divide  the  ribs  into  con- 
venient portions,  and  send  around  with  a  suiticiency  of*  thesvuf- 
finjj;  and  gravy.  Many  prefer  the  neck  end  betwecii  the 
shoulders,  although  the  ribs  are  considered  the  Hnest  part;  but 
as  this  all  depends  on  taste,  the  question  should  be  put.  The 
ear  is  reckoned  a  delicacy. 

Should  the  head  not  be  divided,  it  mus-t  be  done,  and  the 
brains  taken  out,  and  mixed  with  the  gravy  and  stufHng. 

A  Loin  of  Pork 

is   cut   up  in   the   same   manner  as   a  loin  of  mutton.     See 
pa^e  42J. 


Leg  of  Pork 

Commence  carving  about  midway,  between  the  knuckle 
and  farther  end,  and  cut  thin  deep  slices  from  either  side  of 
the  line  1.  For  the  seasoning  in  a  roast  leg,  lift  it  up,  and  it 
will  be  found  under  the  skin  at  th~e  large  end. 

Hand  of  Pork. 

Cut  thin  slices  from  this  delicate  joint,  either  across  near  the 
knuckle,  or  from  the  blade  bone,  as  directed  for  a  shoulder  of 
mutton.  This  forms  a  nice  dish  for  a  tete  a  tete  dinner  ;  there 
is  not  suflicicnt  for  a  third  person. 


4i£ 


CARVINO. 


Ham, 

The  usual  mode  of  carving  this  joint,  is  by  long  delicate 
glices,  through  the  thick  fat,  in  the  direction  of  1-2,  laying  open 
the  hone  at  each  cut,  which  brings  you  to  the  prime  part  at 
once.  A  more  saving  way  is  to  commence  at  the  knuckle 
and  proceed  onwards. 

Some  persons  take  out  a  round  piece  at  3,  and  enlarge  the 
hole,  by  cutting  thin  circular  slices,  with  a  sharp  knife.  This 
keeps  the  meat  moist,  aad  preserves  the  gravy,  but  seldom 
looks  handsome. 

POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 

The  carving-knife  for  poultry  is  smaller  and  lighter  than  the 
meat  cai*ver ;  the  point  is  more  peaked,  and  the  handle 
longer. 

In  cutting  up  a  turkey,  goose,  duck,  or  wild  fowl,  more 
prime  pieces  may  be  obtained  by  carving  slices  from  pinion 
to  pinion,  without  making  wings;  this  is  an  advantage  when 
your  party  is  large,  as  it  makes  the  bird  go  farther. 


A  Fowl. 

It  will  be  more  convenient,  in  carving  this,  to  take  it  on  yonr 
plate,  and  lay  the  joints,  as  divided,  neatly  on  the  dish.     FLt 


CARVING.  449 

}our  fork  in  the  middle  of  the  breast,  and  take  the  wing  off  in 
the  direction  of  1-2;  divide  the  joint  at  1,  lift  up  the  pinioQ 
with  your  fork,  and  draw  the  win;^  towards  the  leg,  which  will 
separate  the  fleshy  part  more  naturally  than  by  the  knife ;  cut 
between  the  leg  and  body  at  3  to  the  bone,  2,  give  the  blade  a 
sudden  turn,  and  the  joint  will  break  if  the  fowl  is  not  old. 
When  a  similar  operation  is  performed  on  the  other  side,  take 
off  the  merrythought,  by  cutting  in  to  the  bone  at  4,  and  turn- 
ing it  back,  which  will  detach.it;  next  remove  the  neck 
-bones  and  divide  the  breast  from  the  back,  by  cutting  through 
the  whole  of  the  ribs,  close  to  the  breast.  Turn  up  the  back, 
press  the  point  of  the  knife  about  halfway  between  the  neck 
and  rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  easily. 
Turn  the  rump  from  you,  take  off  the  sidesmen,  and  the  opera- 
tion is  complete. 

The  breast  and  wings  are  the  most  delicate  parts,  but  the 
leg  is  more  juicy  in  a  young  bird.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
to  cut  the  wings  as  handsome  as  possible. 

A  Partridge 

is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl,  only,  on  account  of  the 
smallness  of  the  bird,  the  merrythought  is  seldom  divided  from 
the  breast.  The  wings,  breast,  and  merrythought,  are  the 
finest  parts  of  it,  but  the  w^ing  is  considered  the  best,  and  the 
tip  of  it  is  reckoned  the  most  delicious  morsel  of  the  whole. 


A  Pheasant* 

Fix  your  fork  in  the  centre  of  the  breast,  and  make  incisions 
to  the  bone  at  1-2,  then  take  off  the  leg  in  the  line  3-4,  and  the 
wing  at  3-5 ;  sever  the  other  side  in  the  same  manner,  and 
separate  the  slices  you  bad  previously  divided  on  the  breast.  In 
taking  off  the  wings,  be  careful  not  to  venture  too  near  the 
ueck,  or  you  will  hit  on  the  neck  bone,  from  which  the  wing 
29 


450  CARVING. 

Bhoulil  be  divided.  Pass  the  knife  throuj];h  the  line  6,  and  under 
the  merrytbought  towards  the  neck,  which  will  detach  it.  The 
other  parts  may  be  served  as  directed  for  a  fowl. 

The  breast,  wings,  and  merrythought,  are  the  most  delicate 
parts,  although  the  leg  has  a  high  flavor. 

'  A  Turkey. 

The  finest  parts  of  this  k'lrd  are  the  breast  and  wings;  the 
latter  will  bear  some  delicate  slices  being  taken  off.  Alter  the 
four  quarters  are  severed,  the  thighs  must  be  divided  from  the 
drum-slicks,  which,  being  tough,  should  be  reserved  till  last. 
In  other  respects,  a  turkey  must  be  dealt  with  exactly  as 
recommended  for  a  fowl,  except  that  it  hnsno  merrythought. 

Give  a  portion  of  the  stuffing,  or  forced  meat,  which  is  inside 
the  breast,  to  each  person. 

Woodcocks^  Grouse,  etc., 

are  carved  similar  to  a  f.)wl,  if  not  too  small,  when  they  may 
be  cut  in  quarters,  and  helped. 

Snipes,  being  smaller,  should  be  divided  in  halves. 


Pigeons. 

The  usual  way  of  carving  these  birds  is  to  insert  the  knife 
fit  1,  and  cut  to  2  and-  8,  when  each  portion  may  be  divided 
into  two  pieces,  and  helped.  Sonielimes  they  are  cut  in  halves, 
either  across  »)r  down  the  middle  :  but  as  the  lower  part  is 
thought  the  best,  the  first  mode  is  the  fairest. 

Should  they  be  very  large  and  fine,  they  may  be  served  like 

A   Goose, 

Take  off  the  wing  by/puttjng  fihe  fork  into  the  small  end  of 
<hc  pinion,  and  press  it  close  to  ^he  body  ;  divide  the  joint  at 
tl  with  the  knife,  carryitip;  it  along  a?  f^«'  as  2.  Remove  the 
leg,  by  cuttiig  in  the   directio.n  of  2-^3,  a^ud  t^iwide  the   thigh 


CARVING. 


461 


from  the  drumstick  ;  then  sever  the  limbs  on  the  other  side, 
and  cut  some  long  slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast,  l)etweeu 
the  lines  a  and  b. 

To  get  at  the  stuffing,  the  apron  must  he  re?noved,  by  cutting 
from  4  to  5  by  3.  It  is  rarely  necessary  to  cut  up  the  \\  hole  ot* 
the  goose,  unless  the  company  is  large  ;  but  the  merrythought 
may  be  taken  off.  There  are  two  i«idebones  by  the  wing, 
which  may  be  cut  off,  as  like  vise  the  back  and  lower  sidebones* 
The  best  pieces  are  the  breast  and  thighs 

A  Duck. 

Remove  the  legs  and  wings  as  directed  above  for  a  goose, 
and  cut  some  slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast.  The  season- 
ing will  be  found  under  the  flap,  as  in  the  other  bird.  Should 
it  be  necessary,  the  merrythought,  sidebones  &c.,  can  be  de- 
tached in  the  same  manner  as  recommended  for  a  fowl. 


Haunch  of  Venison. 

First  let  out  the  gravy,  by  cutting  in  to  the  bone  across  the 
joint  at  1-2  ;  then  turn  the  broad  end  towards  you,  make  as 
deep  an  i  icision  as  you  can  from  3  to  4,  and  help  thin  slices 
from  each  side.  The  greater  part  of  the  fat,  which  is  much 
esteemed,  will  be  found  on  the  left  side  ;  and  those  who  carve 
must  take  care  to  proportion  both  it  and  the  gravy  to  the  num- 
ber of  the  company. 

Hare, 


Insert  tfie  point  of  the  knife  inside  the  shoulder  at  1,  and  di- 
vide all  the  way  down  to  the  rump  at  2 :  do  the  same  on  the 


452  CARVING. 


other  side,  and  you  will  have  the  hare  in  three  pieces.  Pass 
the  knife  under  the  rise  <»f  the  shoulder  at  2-1,  to  take  it  off. 
The  leg  may  be  severed  in  a  similar  manner;  then  behead  if, 
cut  off  the  ears  close  to  the  roots,  and  divide  the  upper  from 
the  lower  jaw.  Next  place  the  former  flat  on  a  plate,  put  the 
point  of  the  knife  into  the  forehead,  and  divide  it  through  the 
centre,  down  to  the  nose.  Cut  the  back  into  convenient  por- 
tions, lay  the  pieces  neatly  on  the  dish,  and  proceed  to  serve 
the  company,  giving  some  stuffing,  (which  will  be  found  in  the 
inside,)  and  gravy  to  each  person. 

The  prime  parrs  are  the  back  and  legs ;  the  ears  are  consid- 
ered a  luxury  by  some,  as  are  the  head  and  brains  ;  they  may 
be  distributed  to  those  that  like  them. 

Should  the  hare  not  be  very  tender,  it  will  be  difficult  to  di- 
vide the  sides  from  the  back,  but  take  off  the  legs,  by  cutting 
through  the  joints,  which  you  must  endeavor  to  hit.  You  will 
then  be  able  to  cut  a  few  slices  from  each  side  of  the  back. 
Next  dissever  the  shoulders,  which  are  called  the  sportsman's 
joints,  and  are  preferred  by  many.  The  back,  &c.,  may  then 
be  carved  as  directed  above. 

Rabbit. 

The  directions  for  cutting  up  a  hare  will  be  amply  sufficient 
to  enable  the  carver  to  dispose  of  this  animal.  The  best  part 
is  the  shoulders  and  back,  which  must  be  divided  into  three  or 
four  pieces,  according  to  its  size.  The  head  should  not  bo 
given  unless  asked  for. 

B'lhhit's  Yeast  Powder  is  one  of  the  improvements  of  the  day. 
May  be  used  in  making  biscuits,  instead  of  cream  of  tartar  and 
soda, 

'-'What  Cheer''  Calcs. 

An  old  friend  with  a  new  name.  See  "Turnpike"  Cakes, 
page  277  of  this  book.  Much  trouble  may  be  saved  by  pur- 
chasing a  box  of  these  yeast  cakes,  as  they  are  the  same  as  di- 
rected in  the  above  mentioned  recipe. 


INDEX 


PAGE 

A-LA-MODE  Beef. 82,  83 

a-la-polonaise,  cakes 249,  250 

Albany  Breakfast  Cakes 2'75 

Albany  Cakes 416 

Almacks 3S1 

Almond  Biscottes 322 

Almond  Cake 300,  301 

Almond  Drop  Cakes 311 

Almond  Drops 316 

Almond  Jumbles 293 

Almond  Macaroons 316,  317 

Almond  Meringues 320,  321 

Almond  Pound-cake 30G^ 

Almond  Pudding,  baked 220 

Almond  Pudding,  boiled 220,  221 

Aljiond  Spice  Biscuits 315,321 

Amber  Color,  for  Soups 14 

Anchovy  Sauce 196, 197 

A  PPLE  AND  Pork  Pie 418 

Apple  and  Quince  Jelly' 352 

Apple  Charlotte 215 

Apple  Dumplings 212,  213 

Apple  Dumplings  (Dried).... 213,  214 

Apple  Dumplings  (Whole) 216 

Apple  Fritters,  with  E.ffgs 212 

Apple  Fritters,  without  Eggs..  211 

Apple  Jelly 356,  357 

Apple  Mince  Pie 263,  264 

Apple  Pie 251 

Apple  Pie  (Dried) 252 

Apple  Pudding,  baked 414,  429 

Apple  Pudding,  boiled, with  Eggs  212 
Apple  Pudding,  boiled,  without 

Eggs 212 

Apple  Pudding,  Charlie's 414 

Apple  Sauce  for  Goose,  etc 199 

Apple  Sauce  for  Puddings. . .  241,  242 
Apple  Tart .251,  252 


page 

Apple  Tart  (Dried) 252,  253 

Apple-water 409 

Apples,  baked 409 

Apples,  Crab,  to  preserve... 355,  356 

Apples,  fried 199 

Apples  in  Batter 229 

Apples  in  Jelly 357,  358 

Apples,  Lady,  to  preserve. ..355,  356 
Apples,  Pine  (see  rineapples) . .  346 

Apples,  to  dry 363 

Apples,  to  preserve 356 

Apples,  to  preserve  for  Tarts  or 

Common  Use 381,  382 

Apples,  to  stew 376,  377 

Apricots,  to  preserve 363 

Arrangement  and  Bill  of  Fare 
FOR  Tea-table,  in  Summer 

AND  Winter 40l,  402 

Arrangement  and  Furniture 
OF  Breakfast  and  Dining- 
room  398-407 

Arrow-root  Blanc-mange 408 

Arrow-root,  to  cook 407,  408 

Artichokes,  to  boil 188 

Artichokes,  to  prepare  for  Table  188 

Artificial  Cheese 206,  207 

Asparagus,  Choice  of 182 

Asparagus  Salad 182,  183 

Asparagus,  to  boil 182 

Asparagus,  to  stew 182 

Bacon,  to  fry  or  broil 109,  110 

Bakers'  Bread,  to  make 268,  269 

Bakers'  Rolls,  to  make 278,  279 

Bakers'  Yeast,  to  make 277 

Baking    Bread,    Biscuit,    Rolls, 

Cakes,  etc..  Directions  for.264-268 
Baking,  heating  Ovens  for. 265 


4 


4.54: 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Baking  of  Cakes 304 

Baking  Pies,  Tarts,  etc.,  Direc- 
tions for 243-245 

Balls,  Egg,  for  Soup '. . .    28 

Balls,  Snow 214,  215 

Barberries,  to  preserve 309,  370 

Barley-water 410 

Bass,  Sea,  to  cook 39 

Bass,  Striped,  to  boil 41 

Bass,  Striped,  to  fry 41 

Batter,  Apples  in    229 

Batter  Pudding,  boiled  225 

Batter  Pudding,  Clieap 216,  217 

Batter  Pudding,  Rich 217 

Bean  Soup  (Dried) 21 

Bean  Soup  (tireeu) 20,  21 

Beans  and  Corn iSo,  1S4 

Beans  and  Pork,  to  boil 115 

Beans,  Green,  to  boil '. 183 

Beans,  Green,  to  pickle 392 

Beans,  Lima,  to  cook 184 

Beef,  Aitch-bone  of,  to  carve 444 

Beef,  A-la-mode 82,  83 

Beef  and  Onion  Stew 78,  79 

Beef  and  Potato  Hash 75,  76 

Beef,  a  Ptound  of,  to  stew 72,  73 

Beef,  Bouilli 73 

Beef  Broth 25 

Beef  Cakes 76 

Beef,  Cold,  to  serve 84 

Beef,  Corned 66,  67 

Beef,  Corned,  to  boil  with  Vege- 
tables   119 

Beef,  Frizzed 170 

Beef  IIead-ciieese 71 

Beef  Heart,  to  bake 73,  74 

Beef  Heart,  to  roast 73,74 

Beef  Heart,  to  stew 74 

Beef,  Joints  of 433 

Beef  Kidneys,  to  cook 74,  75 

Beef  Liver,  to  cook 70,  71 

Beef  Liver,  to  smoke 07 

Beef,  Minced 80 

Beef,  Pickled 68 

Beef,  Potted  Head  of 71 

Beef,  Proper  pieces  of,  for  smo- 
king       67 

Beef,  Ribs  of,  to  carve 445 

Beef,  Ribs  of,  to  roast 411 

Beef,  Roast,  Vegetables  for 81 


page 

Beef,  Round  of,  to  carve 444 

Beef,  Round  of,  to  cook  (French 

receipt) 83 

Beef,  Sirloin  of,  to  car\'e 445 

Beef,  Salted  or  Corned,  to  keep 

for  years 66,  67 

Beef,  Salted,  to  boil  with  Vege- 
tables   169 

Beef,  Sandwich 329 

Beef,  Siiin  of.  Soup 23,  24 

Beef  Skirts,  to  cook 66,  72 

Beef,  Smoked 75 

Becf,  Smoked,  a  Breakfast  of  169,  170 
Beef,  Smoked,  to  make  an  Ome- 
lette of. 1C9 

Beef,  Smoked,  to  serve 170 

Beep,  Smoked,  witii  eggs 169 

Beef  Soup 24,  25 

Beep  Steak  and  Noodles 419 

Beef  Steak,  Mushrooms  with  . .  420 

Beep  Steak,  Oniims  with 71 

Beep  Steak  Pie 77,  73 

Beep  Steak  Pudding 78 

Beef  Steak,  Tomatoes  with.. 420,  421 

;  Beef  Steaks,  Choice  of 76 

i  Beef  Steaks,  fried,  with  Gravy  .    79 

1  Beef  Steaks,  to  broil 76,  77 

I  Beef  Steaks,  to  fry 77 

!  Ueef  Steaks,  to  fry  (to  taste  lik(? 

I         a  l)roii) 77 

;  Beef  to  bake... ..81,  82 

I  Beef  to  choose 65,  66 

Beef,  to  liash 75 

Beef,  to  keep  sweet 65,  66 

Beef  Tongue,  to  carve 445 

Beef  Tongues,  to  pickie 66,  67 

Beef,  to  pickle 63 

Beef,  to  roast 80,  81 

Beef,  to  salt  for  immediate  use  67,  63 

Ueef,  to  smoke 75 

Beef,  to  stew  (P.agout) 72 

Beef  Tripe 68 

Beef  Tripe,  to  broil 70 

B&EF  Tripe,  to  clean 6S,  69 

Beef  Tripe,  to  fricassee 70 

Beef  Tripe,  to  fry 69 

Beef  Tripe,  how  to  make  Rolla 

Cheese  with 69,  70 

Beets,  to  pickle .394,  395 

Beets,  old,  to  cook 179,  i&o 


INDEX. 


455 


PAGE  1 

Beets,  young",  to  cook 179  | 

Beet  Tops,  to  cook 178,  179  i 

Beverage,  a  Temperance 406 

Bill  of  Fare  for  a  Family  Break-        I 

fast ., 400; 

Bill  of  Fake   for  Tea-TS,ble  in         • 

Summer 401,  402  ! 

Bill  of  Fare  for  Tea-Table   in         | 

Winter 402  | 

Bird's  Nest,  to  make,  of  Mac-  ' 

aroni,  etc 156,  157  i 

Birds,  small,  to  broil ICl  ■ 

Birds,  small,  to  fry 161  | 

Birds,  small,  to  roast 162 

Birds,  to  cook  (see  Poultry  and        | 

Game) 135-164  ! 

Ducks 152-154  I 

Partridges. 160  | 

Pigeons 154-160 

Quails 160 

Small  Birds 161-162 

Snipe 160 

Woodcock 160 

Birds,  to  keep  from  tainting.  101, 162 

Birds,  to  roast 162 

BISCOTTES,  Almond 322 

Biscoites,  Pistacliio 322 

Biscuit  axd  Jelly  Sandwich..  308 
Biscuit,  Directions  for  baking  264-26S 
Biscuit,  Directions  for  making  264-323 

Biscttits,  Almond  Spice 315,  321 

Biscuits,  Cream  of  Tartar 423 

Biscuits,  Diet 310 

Biscuits,  Drop 415 

BlSCniS,  Milk 285,  286 

Biscuits,  Naples 303 

Biscuits,  or  Bread  Cake — 274 

Biscuits,  Pistachio 322,  323 

Biscuits,  Savoy 307,  308 

Biscuits,  Soda 285 

BisciiTS,  Spoon 309 

Blackberries,    to   prepare    for 

Table 386 

Blackberries,  to  preserve 369 

Blackderry  Pie 258  | 

Blackberry  Pudding 230  ! 

Blackberry  Syrup 369  I 

Black  Fish,  to  boil 41  i 

Black  Fisn.  to  Ivroil 39 

Black  Fish,  to  fry 39,  40 

Black  Fish,  to  stc v.- 40  ' 


PAGE 

Black  Tea,  to  make 331 

Blanc-Mange,  Arrow-root 408 

Blanc-Mange,  Ribbon 223 

Blanc-Mange,  Rice-flour 40S 

Blanc-Mange,  to  make 223 

Bologna  Sausages,  to  make 102 

BouiLLi,  Beef 73 

Brains,  Calf's,  to  make  a  Dish  of    86 

Brandied  Peaches 361,  362 

Brandy,  Green  Gages  In 372,  373 

Brandy,  Lemon 384 

Brandy  Peaches 361 

Brandy  Peaches,    to    preserve 

Peaches     without     cooking, 

equal  to 422 

Brandy,  Pears  in 374 

Brandy,  Plums  in 372 

Brandy,  Rose 333 

Brandy  Sauce 240 

Brandy  Sauce,  Liquid 240,  241 

Bread   and   Butter    Pudding, 

baked 226,  227 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwich..  329 

Bread,  Bakers',  to  make 268,  269 

Bread,  Brown 273 

Bread  Cake 415 

Bread  Cake,  or  Biscuit 274 

Bread,  Corn,  Delicious 431 

Bread,  Diet 30T 

Bread,  Directions  for  baking. 264-26S 
Bread,    Directions    for  making 

(see  Calcps  and  Rolls) 264-274 

Bread,  D}  spepsia 273 

Bread  Fritters 233 

Bread,  Graham 273 

Bread,  Indian  Corn 274 

Bread,  Indian  Meal 274 

Bread,  Potato 270,  271 

Bread  Pi^ddino,  baked 225 

Bread  Pudding,  boiled,  225,  226,  233 

Bread,  Rye 272 

Bread,  Saleratus  in 265,  266 

Bread,  to  knead 273,  274 

Bread,  Twist. 271 

Bread,  Volatile  Salts  in 265,  265 

Bread,  'SMieat  and  Indian. ..271,  272 

Bread,  ^Tlieat,  to  make 269,  270 

Breakfast,  Bill  of  Fare  for 400 

Breakfast  Cakes,  Al])any 275 

Breakfast  Cakes,  Cornmeal  274,  275 
Brilikfast  Cakes,  Indian 417 


456 


Qn>EX. 


PAGE 

Bbejlkfjlst  Cakes,  Indian  Meal.  2T5 
Breakfast  Cakes,  Washing- 
ton  417,  418 

Breakfast,  FamilT,  Bill  of  Fare 

for 400 

Breakfast  of  Smoked  Beef..169,  170 
Breakfast-Room,  Arrangement 

and  Furniture  of. 39S-407 

Breakfast-Table,  Arrangement 

oL 39S-400 

Breakfast,  Winter,  Bill  of  Fare 

for 400,  401 

Bride  Cake  (Rich) 314,  215 

Brill,  to  carve 441 

Broth,  Beer(see^iip) 25 

Broth,  Cliicken 27 

Broth,  Mutton 28,  29 

Broth,  to  make  in  liaste 410 

Broth,  Veal 23 

Brown  Bread 273 

Brown  Gravy  Soip 420 

Browning  iuk  Graties 31 

Browning  for  Soups. 14,  31 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  to  bake,  279,  2S0 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes 279 

Bullhead  Sour,  to  make 19 

Buns,  Common 2S4,  2S5 

Buns,  Cross 285 

Buns,  Currant 290 

Butchers'  Meat,  Directions  for 

buying  and  dressing C5-130 

Butter,  Clarified 198 

Butter    (Cold)     and     Vinegar 

Sauce 195,  196 

BtTTER  Crackers 2So 

BiTiTER,  Delicious,  to  make 200 

Bihtep^  Directions   for   making 

and  keeping 200-206 

BtrrTER,  Drawn,  to  make 195 

Butter,  Melted 19S 

Butter,  Salt,  to  freshen 200 

BtrrTEu  Sauce 196 

BtriTER,  Toast  vrithoyt 209 

BtTTER,  to  make. 202-206 

Butter,  to  make  in  ha.ste 200, 201 

BtTTER,  to  make  sweet  for  winter 

use 201,  202 

Butter,  to  preserve  for  winter. .  201 
Buttered  Lobster,  to  prepare.    49 

BlHTERMILK  MUFFIN.«v 2S0 

BiriTERMiLK  Pop. 409 

BCTTEBMILK  TZA  CaCES 2S1,  282 


paox 

BtrTTERMILK,  Uses  OL 205,  206 

BtTPTEBNUTS,  tO  plCklC S92 

Cabbage  and  Milk  Soup 16,  17 

Cabbage  and  Potatoes,  to  cook 

together 194 

Cabbage,  Red,  to  dress IST 

Cabbage,  Red,  to  pickle 394 

Cabbage  Sal.vd I86 

Cabbage,  Savov us 

Cabbage  Soup 30 

Cabbage  Sproits,  to  boil 178 

Cabbage,  to  boil 187 

Cabbage,  to  prepare  for  boiling.  119 

Cake,  Almond 300,  301 

Cake,  Almond  Pound 306 

Cake,  Bread 415 

Cake,  Breakfast  (Cornmeal).  274,  275 

Cake,  Breakfast  (Indian) 417 

Cake,  Breakfast  (Washingfn)4i 7,  418 

Cake,  Bride  <Rich) 314,  315 

Cake,  Cocoanut 416,  417 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Cup 299,  300 

Cake,  Cocoanut,  or  Candy  . .  .321,  322 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Pound 300 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Sponge 312 

Cake,  Common  Cup 298 

Cake,  Composition 300 

Cake,  Cornmeal  Breaklkst. .  .274,  275 

Cake,  Cream  Cup 298 

Cake,  Cup  (see  Cujj  Cake) 298 

Cake,  Delicate 416 

Cake,  Dover 303 

Cake,  French  Tea 310,  311 

Cake,  Fruit  (Rich) 312,  313 

Cake,  Harrison 307 

Cake,  Hickory-nut 306 

Cake,  Honey 297 

Cake,  Indian  Breakfast 417 

Cake,  Jackson 306 

Cake,  Johnny 276 

Cake,  Lady  (White) 301,  302 

Cake,  Lady  (Yellow) 301 

Cake,  Lafayette SOS 

.  Cake,  Loaf 310 

\  Cake,  One-Two-Three-Four 2fa 

'  Cake,  Ornamental  Frosting  for..  320 

^  Cake,  Pearlash 296 

'  Cake,  Plum au 

I  Cake,  Qneen 305 

j  Cake,  Rye  Bread . , 272,  27^ 

;  Cake,  S<;otch 315,  316 


INDEX. 


457 


PAGE 

Cake,  Short,  Strawberry  418,  431,  432 

Cake,  Soda 299 

Cake,  Sponge 307,  415 

Cake,  Sponge  (Cocoanut) 312 

Cake,  Sponge  Pudding 41G 

Cake,  Strawberry  Short.  418,  431,  432 

Cake,  Tea  (French) 310,  311 

Cake,  Tea,  Thanksgiving 305,  306 

Cake,  Teacup,  without  Eggs 299 

Cake,  to  clean  Currants  for 314 

Cake,  to  Frost  or  Ice 319,  320 

Cake  Trifle 303 

Cake,  Washington 301 

Cake,  Washington  Breakfast  417,  413 

Cake,  Wedding,  to  make 313 

Cakes  a-la-Polonaise 2i9,  250 

Cakes,  Albany 410 

Cakes,  Albany  Breakfast 275 

Cakes,  Almond  Drop 311 

Cakes,  Beef. 70 

Cakes,  Buckwheat  Griddle 2T3 

Cakes,  Buckwheat,  to  bake.. 279,  230 

►Cakes,  Buttermilk  Tea 2S1,  232 

Cakes,  Citron  Heart 3C2 

Cakes,  Codfish 35 

Cakes,  Cream  Tea 231 

Cakes,  Cup  (Molasses) 297 

Cakes,  Directions  for  baking  and 

making 2G4-26S 

Cakes,  Drop 311,  312 

Cakes,  Fried 2S7,  258 

Cakes,  Griddle  (Buckwheat)  ....  279 

Cakes,  Griddle  (Indian) 275,  276 

Cakes,  Indian 417 

Cakes,  Indian  Griddle 276 

Cakes,  Indian  meal  Breakfast . .  275 
Cakes,  Indian  meal  Griddle.. 275,  276 

Cakes,  Lemon  Drop 311 

Cakes,  Molasses  Cup 297 

Cakes,  Palo- Alto 303 

Cakes,  Paste 2S4 

Cakes,  Portugal 295 

Cakes,  Pound 305 

Cakes,  Pound,  small 304 

Cakes,  Rice 422 

Cakes,  Rout  Drop 312 

Cakes,  Saleratus  used  in 265,  266 

Cakes,  Short 281 

Cakes,  Short,  Rice  Flour 28 1 

Cakes,  Short,  Rye 277 

Cakes,  Small,  to  make 292,  293 

Cakes,  Spanish. 295 


PAGB 

avKES,  Spice 294 

Cakes,  Spice  (Rich) 294,  295 

Cakes,  Sponge  (Small) . .  293,  294,  307 

Cakes,  Sponge,  to  make 416 

Cakes,  Sugar  Drop 311,  312 

Cakes,  Taylor 293 

Cakes,  Tea  (Buttermilk) 281 

Cakes,  Tea  (Cream) 281 

Cases,  Tea  (Wigs) 297,  298 

Cakes,  to  bake 304 

Cakes,  to  keep  fresh 263 

Cakes,  to  make  Icing  for 319 

Cakes,  Turnpike 277,  278 

Cakes,  Veal 428 

Cakes,  Velvet 283 

Cakes,  Volatile  Salts  in 265,  263 

Cases,  Webster 302,  303 

Cakes,  "What  Cheer"  or  Turn- 
pike  277 

Cakes,  White 294 

Cakes,  Wine 295 

Cakes,  Yeast 277,  273 

*4:*  Oilier  Cakes  icill  be  found 
under  their  resr>ective  names. 

Calf's  Brains,  a  dish  of 83 

Calf's  Feet  Jelly 333 

Calf's  Feet,  Roasted 94,  95 

Calf's  Feet,  Stewed 95 

Calf's  Head  (a  line  dish) 86,  87 

Calf's  Head  Cheese 86,  333 

C alps'  Head  Soup 26,  27 

Calf's  Head,  to  carve 446 

Calf's  Head,  to  cook S5-87 

Calf's  Liter,  to  cook 85 

Candied  Lemon  Peel 353 

CxVNDiED  Orange  Peel 358 

Candies,  to  clarify  Sugar  for 339 

Candy,  Cocoanut 321,  322 

Candy,  Cream 341 

Candy,  Hoariiound 341 

Candy,  Lemon  (Common) 340 

Candy,  Molasses  (Tarry) 341,  342 

Candy,  Peppermint 341 

Candy,  Rose 341 

Candy,  Twist,  Common 341 

Canellons 248,  249 

Canellons  Glaces 249 

Cantelopes,  to  prepare  for  Ta- 
ble  ...387 

Cantas-p>ack  Duckr,  to  cook.  153,  154 

Caper  Sauce,  Imitation 196 

Capillaire 383 


458 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Cabolixa  Potatoes  (see   Sweet 

Potatoes) 176 

Carp,  to  cane 440 

Carragan  Moss 403 

Carrot  Pudding 415 

Carrots,  Mashed 184,  ISO 

Carrots,  Old  or  Winter,  to  cook.  184 

Carrots,  to  boiL 1S4 

Carting,  Directions  for 433-452 

Catfish  or  Bullhead  Soup 13 

Catsup,  Oyster 394 

Catsup,  Tomato 303,  334,  410 

Catsup,  Walnut 333 

Cauliflower  Salad 1S5 

Cauliflower,  to  boil 135 

Celery,  to  prepare  for  Table,. . .  1S6 

Champagne  Punch 406,  4 j7 

CH-A.KCOAL,  use  of,  In  cooking  244,  Zlb 

Charlie's  Apple  Pudding 414 

Charlotte,  Apple 215 

Charlotte,  Peach 215 

Charlotte  Russe 221,  2-J 

Cheese.  ArtificiaL 206,  207 

Cheese,  CalTs  Head S6,  23S 

Cheese,  Cottage 205,  2CG 

Cheese,  Cream 207 

Cheese,  Head  (see  Heeta-Cheese) 

71,  86,  97 

Cheese,  Macaroni  with 427 

Cheese,  Milk 207 

Cheese,  Pot 20C 

Cheese,  Quince 352,  35.: 

Cheese,  Roasted 208 

Cheese,  Rolla,  to  make C3,  70 

Cheese  Sandwiches 3:19 

Cherries,  a  Dessert  of 216 

Cherries,  Dried 254 

Cherries,  Ripe,  for  Tea 3S7 

Cherries,  to  drr 3G7 

Cherries,  to  preser\-e 367 

Cherries,  to  preserve  for  Tarts 

or  common  us/? 381,  3S2 

Cherry  Pie  (Dried) 2.54 

Cherry  Pie  (Sour) 254,  2-:>5 

Cherry  Pudding 229,  230 

Cherry  Water 383,  384 

Chicken  Broth 27 

Chicken  Cubrie 133 

Chicken  Patties 142,  143 

Chicken  Pie 140,  141 

Chicken  Pie,  to  serve 63 

Chicked  Pot-Pie Ul,  142 


PAGE 

Chicken  Pot-Pie,  f o  dish  a 142 

CiiicxEN  Salad 429,  430 

Chicken  Salad,  in  form  of  a  Nest  143 

CHICKEN  Soup,  White 22 

Chicken  Soup,  Yellow 21,  22 

I  Chicken,  to  lK)il  (see  f\n.cl). .  .\?,Q,  137 
Chicken,  to  broil  like  a  Steak.139, 140 

CiiiCKEN,  to  fry 140 

Chicken,  to   prepare   for   cook- 
ing  135, 136 

Chicken,  to  roast 137-139 

CHICKENS  Scolloped 142 

Chickens,  Stuffing  for 135, 136 

Chocolate,  to  make 330 

Chop,  Lamb,  like  a  Crown 122 

Chops,  Mutton,  broiled ISO 

Chops,  Mutton,  fried 123,  ISO 

Chops,  Pork,  to  cook 109 

Chowder,  Clam,  to  make 55,  56 

CiiowdePv,  Fish,  to  make 47 

Chowder,  Oyster,  to  make Cl,  62 

Chowder,  to  make 47 

Christmas  DinnePv,  liow  to   ar-      ^ 

range 404,  405 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding  ..218,  219 

Cider,  to  mull 409,  410 

Cider  Vinegar,  to  make 393 

Cinnamon  Sauce 242 

Cinnamon  Wafers 293 

Citron  Heart  Cakes 302 

Citron  Pudding 217 

Citron,  to  preserve 353,  354 

Clam  Chowder^  to  make 55,  58 

Cr.AM  Fritteks,  to  make 63 

Clam,  Hard-shell,  Omelette 53 

Clam  Pie,  to  make 53,  54 

Clam  Pot- Pie,  to  make 54,  55 

Clam  Soup 29 

Clams,  Hard-shell,  Choice  of. .  .51,  52 

CLA3L?,  Hard-shelJ,  to  boil 62 

CLAiLS,  Hard-shell,  to  fry 52,  53 

Clams,  Hard-shell,  to  stew 52 

Clams,  Sand    (small)    to    make 

Cliowder  with 61,  62 

I  Clams,  Scolloped 66 

'  Clams,  Sea,  to  cr»ok 55 

I  Clams,  Soft-shell,  Seas<^^»n  ior 50 

^  Clams,  Soft-shell,  to  boi! 50,  51 

'  Clams,  Soft-shell,  to  fr\' 61 

'  Clams,  Soft-she:i.  to  f^x^vr 51 

I  Clams,  time  required  to  .stew,...    52 
;  CLAiis,  to  pickle 55 


INDEX. 


459 


PAGE 

!       Clarified  Sugar  for  Preserv- 

)  INO 345 

Clotted  Ckeam 331,  332 

CocuiNEAL,  to  prepare,  to  color 

pink  or  red 321 

CocoAXUT  Oaks 41G,  417 

CocoANur  Cake  oi;  Candy.. 321,  322 

Coco  AN  UT  Cup  Cake 299,  300 

CocoANUT  Drops 317 

COCOANL'T  Dkops,  Pyramid  of.  323,324 
CocoANUT,  Grated— a   Dish    of 

Snow 233,  239 

COCOANUT  Kisses 319 

COCOANUT  Macaroons 3H 

COCOANUT  Meringues 321 

COCOANUT  Pound  Cake 30G 

COCOANUT  Pudding.. 217,  218,  228,  413 

COCOANUT  Sponge  Cake 312 

Cod,  bj^ked 37 

Cod,  Cold  boiled,  to  make  a  Dish 

of 35,  36 

Cod,  Fresh,  Description  of 3t3 

Cod,  Fresh,  to  boil ^■j 

Cod,  Fresh,  to  broil 36 

Cod,  Salt,  stewed 35 

Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders,  to 

carve 440,  441 

Codfish  Cakes 35 

Codfish,  Dried,  to  ])oil 34,  35 

Codfish,  Salt,   to  boil   Potatoes 

with 112 

Codfish  Steaks,  fried 36,  37 

Coffee,  to  make 330 

Cold    Butter     and     Vinegar 

Sauce •.  .195, 196 

Cold  Collations 405,  406 

COLDSLAW,  to  make 186,  187 

Collation,  Cold,  for   Fomth  of 

July 405,  406 

Collation,  Cold,  for  New  Year's 

Day 4{^ 

CoLLOPS,  Veal 426 

Colors  for  Soups 14 

Composition  Cake 300 

Cooked  Meats,  to   make   Soup 

from 11,  12 

Cookery  for  Invalids 407 

Cookies,  Cream  of  Tartar 424 

Cooking,  to    preserve    Peaches 

without 422 

Cooking,  to  preserve  Pine-apples 

WttUout., 346>847 


PAGE 

Cooking,  Use  of  Charcoal  in  .244,  245 

Corn  Bread,  Delicious 431 

Corned  Beef,  to  boil  with  Vege- 
tables  119 

Corned  Beef,  to  keep  for  Years 

(see  Beef) 66,  67 

Corned  Pork,  to  boil  with  Vege- 
tables  117, 118 

Corn,  Green,  Fritters 422 

Corn,  Green,  Soup 409 

Corn,  Green,  to  boil 190,  191 

Corn,  Green,  to  roast 191 

Corn,  Green,  to  serve 190 

Corn-meal  Breakfast  Cake.274,  275 
Corn-meal  Fritters,  with  Eggs  235 
Corn-meal  Fritters,     without 

Eggs 235 

Corn-meal  Pudding 236,  237 

Corn  Starch  Custard 429 

Corn  Starch,  to  prepare.... 423,  428 

Cottage-cheese 205,  205 

Crab  Apples,  to  preserve 355,  356 

Crabs,  Soft,  to  cook 430 

Crabs,  to  boil 50 

Crabs,  to  choose 60 

Crackers,  Butter 285 

Crackers,  D„vspepsia 278 

Cracklings 418,  419 

Cranberry  Jam 199 

Cranberry  Pie 255 

Cranberry  Sauce 199 

Cranberry  Sauce,  for  Puddings  241 

Cranberry  Tarts 255 

Cream  Candy 341 

Cream  Cheese 207 

Cream,  Clotted 331,  333 

Cream  Cup  Cake 298 

Cream  Custard 229 

Cream,  Hasty 331 

Cream,  Ice  (see  Ice  Cream) 332 

Cream,  Lemon,  Floating  Island  .  218 

Cream  Mock 221 

Cream  of  Tartar  Biscuit 423. 

Cream  of  Tartar  CooKia^v*..  424 

Cream  of  Tartar  Rolls . ..  423 

Cream  Pie 258,  259 

Cream  Sauce,  to  make 198 

Cream  Sherbet ^ 385 

Cream  Snow 331 

Cream,  Syrup  of 331 

Cream  Tarts,  Sugar  Paste 248 

Cream  Tea  Cakes. 281 


460 


INDEX* 


PAGE 

Cream,   to  cause  to  rise  quick- 
ly  204,  205 

Cream,  to  keep  sweet 331 

Cream,  Whipt 221 

Cross  Buns 285 

Crullers,  Delicate 288,  289 

Crullers,  Plain 288 

Crullers,  Richer ....,  238 

Crullers,  Richest 288 

Crullers,  to  fry 236 

Crumpets,  to  make 281 

Crumpets,  Wheat  and  Indian 276 

Cucumbers,  to  choose 189 

Cucumbers,  to  pickle 388,  389 

Cucumbers,  to  prepare  for  Table.  189 

Cup  Cake,  Cocoanut 299,  300 

Cup  Cake,  Common 293 

Cup  Cake,  Cream 298 

Cup  Cakes,  Molasses 297 

Cups,  Flour  Pudding  l)akedin. . .  414 

Cups,  to  bake  Potatoes  in 423 

Curd  Puddings,  small 23i 

Currant  Buns 290 

Currant  Fritters  (Dried) 237 

Currant  Jam 363 

Currant  Jelly 368,  369 

Currant  Jelly  Dumplings 232 

Currant  Jelly,    Lamb    Steaks 

with 122,  123 

Currant  Jelly  Pudding 231 

Currant  Jelly,  without  cook- 
ing  370 

Currant  Pie  (Green) 257,  258 

Currant  Pie  (Ripe) 257 

Currant  Pudding  (Dried) 229 

Currant  Pudding  (Ripe) 230 

Currant  Tarts  (Green) 257,  258 

Currant- WATER 333 

Currant-water  Ice 333 

Currants,  for  Cake,  to  clean 314 

Currants,  Ripe,  for  Tea 387 

Currants,  to  preserve 367,  308 

Currie,  Chicken 139 

CURRIE,  Mutton < 129 

Currie  Powder,  to  make 198 

Custard  Common 210,  211 

Custard,  Corn  Starch 429 

Custard,  Cream 229 

Custard  Fritters 230,  231 

Custard  Pie,  which   makes  its 

own  paste ».*.  259 

Custard  PiBa*i ♦ 259 


nQ 


PAGE 

Custard,  Rice 412 

Custards,  small 225,  226 

Cutlets,  Pigeon 169 

Cutlets,  Pork,  to  cook 109 

Damsons,  to  pickle 397 

Damsons,  to  preserve 373 

Delicate  Cake 416 

Dessert,  a  French 412 

Dessert,  a  Nice 215,  216 

Dessert  at    Dinner,    Arrange- 
ment of 403 

Dessert,  Hominy  as 192 

Dessert  of  Pine-apples 401 

Dessert,  Omelette  for 229 

Dessert,  Oranges  as 401 

Diet  Biscuit 310 

Diet  Bread 307 

Dining-room,  Arrangement  and 

Furniture  of 398-407 

dinner,  a  Ciiristmas,  how  to  ar- 
range   404,  405 

Dinner,  Arrangement  of  Dessert 

at 403 

Dinner,  a  Tlianksgiving. 405 

Dinner,  Duties  of  Guest  at. .  .437,  433 

Dinner,  Duties  of  Host  at 435-437 

Dinner,  New  Year's 405 

Dinners,  Family 115,  116,  119,  120 

Dinners,  Family  (Summer),  Bill 

of  Fare  for 404 

Dinners,  Holiday 404 

Dinners,  Large,  to  serve 403,  404 

Dinner-table,   Arrangement   of 

(see  Tamp) 402-404 

Dinner-table,  Etiquette  of... 435-438 

Doughnuts,  to  fry 286 

Doughnuts,  to  make 286,  287 

Doughnuts,  without  Yeast 287 

Dover  Cake \ 303 

Drawn  Butter,  to  make 195 

Dressing,  Salad 188 

Drop  Biscuits 415 

Drop  Cakes 311 

Drop  Cakes,  Almond 311 

Drop  Cakes,  Lemon 311 

Drop  Cakes,  Sugar 311,  312 

Drop  Cakes,  Rout 312 

Drops,  Almond 318 

Drops,  Cocoanur. 317 

Drops,  Cocoanut,  Pyramid  of  323,  324 
Duck,  to  carve. »i.  451 


INDEX. 


461 


PAGE 

Dl'ck,  Veal  roasted  to  look  like 

a 91,  92 

Ducks,  Canvas-back,  to  cook  153,  154 
Ducks,  lloast,    Potato   Cakes  to 

serve  with 421 

Ducks,  to  choose 152, 153 

Ducks,  to  roast  in  a  Pot 154 

Ducks,  Wiia,  to  cook 152,  153 

Dumplings,  Apple 212,  213 

Dumplings,  Apple  (Dried)  ...213,  214 

Dumplings,  Apple  (Whole) 216 

Dumplings,  Currant  Jelly 232 

Dumplings,  Egg 234 

Dumplings,  Egg,  for  Soup 28 

Dumplings,  Indian  Meal 223,  224 

Dumplings,  Peach  (Dried) 213 

Dumplings,  Peach  (Ripe) 214 

Dumplings,  Rhubarb 214 

DU3IPLINGS,  Yeast 224 

Dutch  Omelette 168, 169 

Dyspepsia  Bread 273 

Dyspepsia  Crackees 278 

Eels,  Choice  of 44 

Eels,  to  bake 44,  45 

Eels,  to  fricassee 45 

Eels,  to  fry 45 

Eels,  to  prepare  for  cooking 44 

Egg  Balls  for  Soup 23 

Egg  Dumplings 234 

Egg  Dumplings  for  Soup 28 

Egg  Pancakes 232 

Egg  Plant,  to  cook 191 

Egg  Pudding 227 

Egg  Rusk 282,  283 

Egg  Sauce 195 

Eggs  and  Ham,  fried 114 

Eggs,  Apple  Fritters  with 212- 

Eggs,  Apple  Fritters  witliout  211,  212 

Eggs,  Apple  Pudding  with 212 

Eggs,  Apple  Pudding  without ...  212 
Eggs,  Corn-meal  Fritters  with. . .  236 
Eggs,  Corn-meal  Fritters  without  235 

Eggs,  Frothed ' 239 

Eggs,  Omelettes,  etc.  (see   Ome- 
lettes)   164-169 

Eggs  Poached,  with  Fried  Ham  114 

Eggs,  Rice  Pudding  with 227 

Eggs,  Rice  Pudding  without 227 

Eggs,  Soft    Gingerbread     with- 
out  » 296 


PAGE 

Eggs,  Stirred 167 

Eggs,  Suet  Fruit  Pudding  with- 
out   430,  431 

Eggs,  Teacup  Cake  without 299 

Eggs,  to  boil  (in  their  Shells)  165-167 

Eggs,  to  choose 164 

Eggs,  to  keep... 164, 165 

Eggs,  to  make  a  French  Omelette 

with 167,163 

Eggs,  to  make  an  Omelette  au 

Naturel  with 167 

Eggs,  to  make  an  Omelette  with  168 

Eggs,  to  poach 166 

Eggs,  to  poach  in  Balls 167 

Eggs,  with  Smoked  Beef 169 

Etiquette    of     the     Dinner- 
Table 435-438 

Evening  Parties,  Refreshments 
for 326,327 

Family  Breakfast,  Bill  of  Fare 

for 400 

Family  Dinners  . .  .115, 116, 119, 120 
Family  Dinners  (Summer),  Bill 

of  Fare  for 404 

Family  Pie  Crust,  Short 247,  248 

Fare,  Bill  of,  for  Family  Br'kfast  400 
Fare,  Bill  of,  for  Family  Dinners  404 

Fare,  Bill  of,  for  Tea 401,  402 

Farina  Pudding 428 

Farina,  to  cook 423, 428 

Feet,  Calves',  roasted 94,  95 

Feet,  Calves',  stewed 95 

Figs,  Roasted 384 

Filbert  Meringues 321 

Fingers,  Lady 309,  310 

Fish,  Black,  to  boil 41 

Fish,  Black,  to  fry 39,  40 

Fish,  Black,  to  stew 40 

Fish  Chowder,  to  make 47 

Fish,  Directions  for  carving.  .439-441 

Brill 441 

Carp 440 

Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.440,  441 

Haddock 440 

Mackerel 439 

Perch 440 

Plaice 441 

Salmon 440 

Soles 441 

Turbot ; , 441 


462 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Fish,  Directions  for  cooking  (see 
under    respective   names ; 

also  Shell  Fish) 33-47 

Bass,  Striped 41 

Black  Fish 33 

Cod 31-37 

Eels 44,  45 

Haddock 37 

llalibiU 41 

Herrings 47 

Mackerel, 45,  46 

Percn 41 

Pike  or  Pickerel 47 

Salmon 41-44 

Sea  Bass 39 

Shad 37,  3S 

Trout 4G 

Fisn,  Flat,  to  carve 441 

Fish,  General  Ileraarks  on 32,  33 

Fish,  Rules  for  choosing 32 

Fish,  Salt,  to  prepare  for  cooking    34 

Fish,  Sauces  for 195-199 

Fish,  Shell,  to  cook 48-04 

Fisu  Soup 21 

Fish,  to  boil 32,  33 

Fish,  to  broil 33,  34 

Fish,  to  fry 33,  34 

Fish,  to  serve  Horse-radish  with  194 
Flavoring  Stews,  Powder  for..  193 

Floating  Island 218 

Floating  Island,  Lemon  Cream  218 
Flour  Gravy,  for  Veal  Chops  88,  89 

Flour,  Prepared,  to  make 2S9 

Flour  Pudding,  baked  in  Cups..  414 

Flour,  to  brown 196 

Fourth  of  July,  a  Cold  Collation 

for 405,  406 

Fowl,  Boiled,  Stumng  for 136 

Fowl,  Roast,  Stuffing  for 135,  136 

Fowl,  to  boil  (see  C7uofcpn) . . .  136,  137 
Fowl,  to  broil  like  a  Steak . . .  139,  140 

Fowl,  to  carve 448,  449 

Fowl,  to  fry 1-iO 

Fowl,  to  roast 135-137 

French  Dessert,  a 412 

French  Omelette,  to  make..  167, 168 
French  Receipt   for   Cooking 

Round  of  Beef 83 

French  Rolls  for  Tea 284 

French  Tea-cakes 310,  311 

Fricasseed  Eels 45 


page 

Fricasseed  Goose iso 

Fricasseed  Tripe 70 

Fricasseed  Turkey 147, 148 

Fried  Cakes 287,  288 

Fried  Oysters  (see  Oystei^s) 57 

Fritters,  Apple,  with  Eggs 212 

Fritters,  Apple,   without  Eggs 

211,212 

Fritters,  Bread 233 

Fritters,  Clam 53 

Fritters,  Corn-meal,  with  Eggs  235 
Fritters,  Corn-meal,    without 

Eggs 235 

Fritters,  Currant,  Dried 237 

Fritters,  Custard 230,  231 

Fritters,  Green  Corn 422 

Fritters,  Jelly 231 

Fritters,  Jelly  in 231 

Fritters,  Oyster,  to  make 56,  57 

Fritters,  Parsnip 185, 186 

Fritters,  Peach 423 

Fritters,  Rhubarb 230 

Frizzed  Beef 170 

Frosting  for  Cake 319,  320 

Frosting,  Ornamental 320 

Frothed  Eggs 239 

Fruit  Cake,  Rich 312,  313 

Fruit,  General    Directions    for 

preserving ,.  .343-345 

Fruit,  Kettles  for  preserving —  343 

Fruit,  Paste  Padding  with 214 

FRurr,  Preserved,    Management 

of. 39»-397 

Fruit  Pudding,    Suet,    without 

Eggs 430,  431 

Fruit  Sandwich 329 

Fruit,  to  bottle 345,  340 

Fruit,  to  candy 359 

Fruit,  to  color  Green,   for  pre- 
serving in  Sugar  or  Vinegar  342 
Fruit,  to  color  Yellow,  for  pre- 
serving   342.  343 

Fruit,  to  keep  fresh 345,  346 

Fruit,  to  preserve  for  Tarts.  .381,  382 
Fruits,  Directions  for  preserving 
(see  under  their  resj)cctive 

names) 342-385 

Almacks 381 

Apple  Jelly 356,  357 

Apples  in  Jelly 357,  358 

Apples,  to  dry 363 


INDEX. 


4G3 


PAGE 

Fruits,  Directions   for   prcserv- 
ius  (contiuiwcl). 

Apples,  to  preserve 3jG 

Apples,  to  stew 376,  37  7 

Apricots 3G3 

Barberries CG9,  37u 

Blackberries 369 

Ciierries 3G7 

Citron 3'>3,  354 

Crab,  or  Lady  Apples 355,  35C 

Currant  Jam 3GS 

Currant  Jelly 36S-370 

Currants 367,  3CS 

Damsons 373 

Ginger,  Green 330,  3Si 

Gooseberries 370 

Grape  Jelly 379 

Grapes 378-3S0 

Grapes,  to  tlry 330 

Green  Gages 372-374,  422 

Lady  Apples 355,  356 

Lemon  or  Orange  Peel 35S 

Lemons 354 

Limes 354 

Marmalade,  to  make 353 

2ilarmalade,  Transparent 331 

•  Mulberries 382 

Musk-melons 354 

Nectarines 3 j2,  3i3 

Orange  Jelly 357 

Oranges  in  Jelly 354,  355 

Pcacii  Jelly 362,  383 

Peacli  Marmalade 362 

Peaches 359-354 

Peaches,  Brandy 351,  3G2 

Peaches,  to  dry 303 

Peaches,  to  preserve  without 

cooking 422 

Pear  Marmalade 375 

Pears,  Brandy 374 

Pears,  to  bake 375,  37G 

Pears,  to  dry 374 

Pears,  to  preserve 374,  375 

Pine-apple  Jelly 347,  343 

Pine-apples 346-343 

Pippins  in  slices 353 

Plums 370-374 

Plums,  Brandy 372 

Plums,  pur-)lc 371 

Plums,  to  dry 374 

Qq^uca  and  Apple  Jelly 332 


TAGE 

Fruits,  Directions  for  preserv- 
ing  {cotUimted). 

Quince  Cheese 352,  353 

(Quince  Jelly 351 

Quhice  Marmalade 351 

( >uinces 349-351 

llaspberries 363 

PJiubarb  Preserve 411 

Strawberries 3U4-3G6 

Strawberry  Jam,  or  Marma- 
lade  3G5,  3C5 

Tomatoes 377 

Tomatoes,  Candied 377,  373 

Tomato  Jam 373 

Watermelons 353 

Fruits,  Ripe,  or  Melons,  to  pre- 
pare for  Table 3S5-3S7 

Blackberries 386 

Cantelopes 387 

Cherries 38T 

Currants  for  Tea 387 

Huckleberries  or  AViiortle ber- 
ries  388,  3S7 

Muskmclons 387 

Peaclies,  Ripe 385 

Raspberries 383 

Strawberries 386 

Watermelons 3S7 

Game,  etc.,  to  carve 448-450 

Game,  to  cook  (see  Fowl) 135-164 

Ducks,  Canvas-back 153,  154 

Ducks,  Wild 153, 154 

Partridges 160 

pjieasaiit 160 

Pigeons 154-16-t 

Prairie  ilen 160 

Quails 160 

Snipe 160 

Squirrels 1G2-164 

Hares 1G2-164 

Rabbits 162-16i 

V»'oodcock *1G0 

Game,  to  l^eep  from  tainting  ici,  162 

GiNUSRURI^vo,  M3lasses 295,  296 

GiNGEJiRBEAD,  Soft 295,  290 

GlNGKRBREAD,   Soft,  WitllOUt  EggS  293 

Ginger  Nuts  « 297 

Ginger  Roots  (Cireen),    to   pro- 
serve  320,  3ni 

Ginger  SNAr; 293 


464 


INDEX. 


TAGE  I 

Glacee,  Omelette 240  1 

Glaces,  Canellons 249  j 

Goose,  Fricasseed. 150  i 

Goose  Pot-Pie 150  ' 

Goose,  Roast,  Vegetables  for 151 

Goose,  Stewed,  to  make  a  Ragout 

of 151,  152 

Goose,  to  brown-stew  a  vrhole...  151 

Goose,  to  carve 450,  451 

Goose,  to  choose  a 148  j 

Goose,  to  roast  a 14S-151  I 

Gooseberries,  Red,  to  keep 370 

Gooseberries,  to  preserve CTO  ; 

Gooseberry  Pies 253 

Gooseberry  Tarts 258  i 

Gotham  Pudding 235  ! 

Graham  Bread 273  j 

GiiAPE  Jelly ; 379  ; 

Grate  Pie  (Green) 25S  i 

Grape  Tarts  (Green) 253  ; 

Grapes,  Green,  to  preserve 3S0 

Grapes,  to  dry 37J  | 

Grapes,  to  dry  in  clusters 3S0 

Grapes,  to  preserve 378  i 

Grapes,  to     preserve     (i    new        | 

way 378,  379 

Grapes,  to  preserve  in  Bundles..  373 

Gravies,   Browning  for 31 

Gravy  fo:i  Veal  Chops S3,  89 

Gravy,  Ilam Ill 

Gravy  Sol'p( Brown) 420 

Gravy  Soip,  Stock  for 29,  30 

Gravy,  Stock  for 29,  30 

Green  Bean  Sorp 20,  21 

Green  Beans,  to  boil 1S3 

Green  Beans,  to  pickie 392 

Green  Corn  Fritters 422 

Green  Corn  Pudding 237,233 

Green  Corn  Soup 409 

Green  Corn,  to  boil 190,  191 

Green  Corn,  to  roast 191 

Green  Corn,  to  serve 190 

Gr^en  Currant  Pie 257,  253 

Green  Currant  Tarts.. •...257,  258 

Green  Gage  Pie 254 

Green  Gage  Tarts 254 

Green  Gages,  Jam  of 373,  374 

Green  Gages,  to  bramly 372,  373 

Green  Gages,  to  preserve 372 

Green  Ginger  Roots 380,  3S1 

Gbeen  Grape  Ple 258 


PAGE 

Green  Grape  Tarts. 258 

Green  Grapes,  to  preserve 330 

Green  Grapes,  for  Pies  and  Tarts  258 
Green  Onions,  to   prepare    for 

Table 189 

Green  Pea  Soup 17,  18 

Green  Peas,  to  cook isi 

Green  Plum  Pie 254 

Green  Tea,  to  make 330,  331 

Green,  to  color  Fruit,  for  pre- 
serving   342 

Green,  to  color  Soups 14 

Greens,  to  boil 178 

Griddle  Cakes,  Buckwheat 279 

Griddle  Cakes,  Indian 276,  417 

Griddle  Cakes,  Indian-meal  275,  276 

Grouse,  to  carve 450 

Gruel,  Oatmeal,  to  make 407 

Gruel,  Water,  to  make 407 

Haddock,  to  carve 440 

Haddock,  to  cook 37 

Halibut,  Cold  boiled,  to  serve...    41 

Halibut,  to  boil 41 

Halibut,  to  broil 41 

Halibut,  to  fry 41 

Ham  and  Eggs,  Fried 114 

Ham,  Boiled  with  A'egetables— a 

Family  Dinner 115, 116 

Ham,  Fried,  Poached  Eggs  Avith  114 

Ham  Gravy Ill 

Ham  Omelette 163 

Ham  Sandwich 329 

Ham,  to  boil 107,  108 

Ham,  to  broil 110,  111 

Haji,  to  carve  a 443 

Ham,  to  fry 110 

Hams,  <lry  salted 99 

Hams,  Mutton 127 

Hams,  to  choose 107 

Hams,  to  cure 98,  99 

Hams,  to  smoke  (see  Pork) 99 

j  Hands,  to  remove   Stains  from 

the 411 

I  Hard-shell  Clams  (see  aams)    51 

I  Hare  Soup 23 

Hare,  to  cane 451,  452 

Hares,  to    clioose,    dress,    and 

cook 162-1 04 

Harrison  Cake 307 

,  Harslet,  Pigs',  to  make  a  Dish  of  104 


INDEX. 


465 


PAGE 
Harslet,  Sheep's,   hashed    (see 

Mutton) 121,  127,  128 

Hash,  Potato  and  Beef 75,  76 

Haste,  to  make  Soup  in 31 

Hasty  Ckeam 331 

Hazel-nl't  Meringl'es 321 

Head,  a  BeePs,  Potted 71 

Head,  a  CalPs,  to  carve 446 

Head,  a  CalFs  to  cook 85-87 

Head,  a  Hog's,  to  pickle 100 

Head,  a  Pig's,   to  prepare    for 

baking 102,  103 

Head-cheese,  Beef. 71 

Head-cheese,  CalPs 86, 338 

Head-cheese,  Pork 97 

Heart,  Beefs,  to  bake  or  roast. .  73,  74 

Heart,  Beefs,  to  stew 74 

Heart  Cakes,  Citron 302 

Hedge  Hog,  to  make  a 239 

Herrings,  fresh,  to  boil 47 

Herrings,  to  cook 47 

Hickory-nut  Cake 306 

HoARHOUND  Candy 341 

Hog,  to  cut  up  a 95,  98 

Hog's  Head,  Pickled 100 

Hog's  Lard 96 

Holiday  Dingers 404 

Hominy,  as  Dessert 192 

Hominy,  boiled 192 

Honey  Cake 297 

Horse-radish,  to  prepare 194 

Huckleberries,  to   prepare  for 

Table 386,  387 

Huckleberry'  Pie 257 

Huckleberry  Pudding 230 

Ice  Cream,  Lemon 332 

Ice  Cream,  to  make  332,  333,  336,  337 

Ice  Cream,  Vanilla 332 

Ice,  Currant-water 333 

Ice,  Orange-water 334 

Icing  for  ^akes 319 

Indian  and  Wheat  Bread.. 271,  272 
Indian  and  Wheat  Crumpets..  270 

Indian  Breakfast  Cake 417 

Indian  Cakes 417 

Indian  Corn  Bread 274 

Indian  Griddle  Cakes 276,417 

Indian  Meal  Bread 274 

Indian  Meal  Breakfast  Cakes  275 

Indian  Meal  Dumplings 223,  224 

30 


page 
Indian  Meal  Griddle  Cakes  275, 276 

Indian  Meal  Muffins 277 

Indian  Pudding,  Baked 414 

Indian  Pudding,  Cheap 224 

Indian  Pudding,  Plain 415 

Indian  Pudding,  to  make 120 

Invalids,  Cookery  for 407 

Isinglass,  Kinds  of 222 

Isinglass,  to  clarify 222,  223 

Island,  Floating 218 

Island,  Floating,  Lemon  Cream.. 218 
Ivory  Dust  Jelly 338,  339 

Jackson  Cake 306 

Jam,  Cranberry 199 

Jam,  Currant 368 

Jam  of  Green  Gages 373,  374 

Jam,  Raspberry 366 

Jam,  Strawberry 365,  366 

Jam,  Tomato 378 

Jars  for  Preserved  Fruit —  344 

Jaune  Mange 339 

Jelly  and  Biscuit  Sandwich..  308 

Jelly  and  Wafers 231,  292 

Jelly,  Apple 356,  357 

Jelly,  Apples  in 357,  358 

Jelly-,  Calf  s  Feet 338 

Jelly,  Currant 3GS,  369 

Jelly',  Currant,  Dumplings 232 

Jelly,  Currant,  Pudding 231 

Jelly,  Currant,  v>athout  cooking  370 

Jelly  Fritters 231 

Jelly',  Grape 379 

Jelly  in  Fritters 231 

Jelly,  Ivory  Dust 338,  339 

Jelly  Kisses 318,  319 

Jelly,  Orange 357 

Jelly,  Oranges  in 354,  355 

Jelly  Pancakes 232,  233 

Jelly,  Peach 302,  363 

JELLY',  Pine-apple 347,  348 

Jelly,  Quince 351,  352 

Jelly,  Quince  and  Apple 352 

Jelly  Sandwich 329 

Jelly  Strainers 348,  349 

Jelia'  Syrup,  Quinces  in 350,  351 

Jelly  Tarts,  Sweet  Paste 248 

Jelly,  Wine 338 

Johnny  Cake 276 

Juice,  Lemon,  to  keep 333,  334 

Julienne  Sovp 427 

u 


466 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

July  Foukth,  a  Cold  Collation 

for 405,  406 

Jumbles,  Almond 293 

Jumbles,  Common 232 

Jumbles,  Soft, 209 

Jumbles,  to  make 292 

Kettles,  Preserving &43 

Kidneys,  Beef,  to  coolc T4,  75 

Kisses 317,  318 

Kisses,  Cocoanut 319 

Kisses,  Jelly 318,  Sio 

KiTAUT,  Sour,  to  make, 112,  113 

Ejiaut,  Sour,  to  serve 113 

Lady  Apples,  to  preserve  . .  .355,  35G 

Lady-cake,  White 301,  302 

Lady-cake,  YelloAv 301 

Lady-fingers,  to  niake..2C7,  309,  310 

Lafayette  Cake 303 

Lami;,  a  Dreast  of,  to  broi!,.  ..121,  122 

Lamb  Chop,  like  a  Crown. 122 

Lamb,  Fore  Quarter  of,  to  carve..  443 

L.VMB,  Joints  of. 121 

Lamb,  I^g  of,  to  car\''e 444 

L.iMn,  Loin  of,  to  carve 444 

Lamb,  Quarter  of,  boiled 124 

LAMr>,  Quarter  of,  roasted  or  bak- 

^cd 123,  124 

Lamb,  SJioulder  of,  to  carve 444 

Lamb  Soup 25,  20 

L.iMB  Steaks,  with  Wine  or  Cur- 
rant Jcliy  122,123 

Lamb  Stewed  witu  Peas 122 

Lamb,  to  choose 121 

Lamb,  to  roast  a  Pig  like 105 

Lard,  to  make DO,  111 

Larded  SwEETBUEaVD 424,  425 

Leeks,  Uses  of 194 

Leaven,  to  make 278 

Lemonade,  to  make 33.1: 

Lemon  and  Syrit  Sauce 241 

Lemon  Brandy 33i 

Lemon  Candy,  Common 340 

Lemon  Candy  or  Rock 340 

Lemon  Cream,  Roating  Island . .  213 

Lemon  Drop  Cakes. 311 

Lemon  Ice  Cream 332 

Lemon  Juice,  to  keep 333,  a34 

Lemon  Pei:l,  Candied 353 

Lemon  Pie 256 


PAGE 

LEMON"  Pudding 220 

Lemon  Puddlng,  llich 228 

Lemon  Sauce,  for  Meat 197,  193 

Lemon  Sauce,  for  Puddings 241 

Lemon  Sauce,  for  Pucfdings,  Pvich  242 

Lemon  Sherbet 385 

Lemon  Sugar. 333 

Lemon  Syrup, 336 

Lemon  Water 333,  409 

Lemons,  to  preserve 354 

Lettuce,  to  prepare  for  Table. ..  188 

Light  Roli^ 283,  284 

Lima  Beans,  to  cook 184 

Limes,  to  preserve 354 

Liquid  Brandy  or  Wxne  Sauce 

(see  Sauce) 240,  241 

Liver,  Beeves',  to  cook 70,  71 

Liver,  Beeves',  to  smoke G7 

Liver,  Calf  s,  to  cook 85 

Loaf  Cake 310 

Lobster,  Bailed,     Sour     Sauce 

for 48,  49 

Lobster,  Battered 49 

Lobster,  Choice  of 43 

Lobster  Salad 49,  50,  430 

Lobster  Sauce 197 

Lobster  Sour,  to  make 16 

Lobster,  to  boil 43 

Lobster,  to  broil 49 

"Macaroni  Soup..; 25 

macaroni.  Sweet 427 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. 427 

Macaroons,  Almand 315,  31 T 

Macaroons,  Cocoanut 317 

Macaroons,  Pyramid  of. 323,  324 

Mackerel,  Fresh,  to  cook 45 

Mackerel,  Salt,  to  dress 46 

Mackerel,  to  dry 45,  46 

Mackerel,  to  carve 439 

Mackerel,  to  Salt 46 

Maigre,  Soup,  to  make..  .• 20 

Mange,  Blanc,  to  make 223 

Mange,  Jaune, 339 

Mangoes  and  otiier  Pickles,  Di- 
rections for  making 388-397 

Mangoes,  Melon 390,  391 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce 242 

Marlborough  Pudding 414 

MaPwMALADE 3oS 

,  Marmalade,  Peach S62 


INDEX, 


467 


PAGE 

Marmalade,  Pear 375 

Wakaialade,  Quince 351 

Makmalade,  Uaspburry 363 

Marmalade,  Strawberry 365,  386 

Maumaladb,  Transparent 381 

LlAKiiOWFAT  Teas,  to  cook'..  .ISl,  132 

fjAUiiow  Pudding 223 

Meal,  Corn  (sec  Corn  Meal) 235 

Meal,  Indian,  Dumplings 223,  224 

Meat,  Directions  for  boiling  and 

serving  witli  Vegetables 112 

Meat  from  wliicli  Soup  has  been 

made,  to  serve  cold 12 

Meat,  Joints  of,  to  carve 441-448 

Meat,  Mince  Pic 261-263 

Meat  Pie,  to  serve 63 

Meat  Sandwich 329 

Meat,  Sauces  for 195-199 

Meat,  Sausage 100 

Meat,  Soup  without 19 

Meats,  cooked,    to   make   Soup 

from 11,  12 

Meats,  Directions  for  buying  and 

dressing 63-130 

Meats,    Directions   for    cooking 
(see    Beef,     Lamb,    Mutton, 

Pork  and  Veal) 65-130 

Melon  Mangoes 390,  391 

Melon,  Water,  Preserves 353 

Melted  Bcttek,  to  prepare 198 

Meringue  Pie 256,  264 

Meringues,  Almond 320,  321 

Meringues,  Cocoanut 321 

Meringues,  Filbert 321 

Meringues,  Hazelnut 321 

Meringues,  Pyramid  of 323,  324 

Milk  and  Cabbage  Soup 16, 17 

Milk  Biscuits,  to  make 280 

Milk,  Cellar  for 205 

Milk  Cueese,  to  make 207 

Milk  or  Soda  Biscuit ^285 

Milk,  Oysters  stewed  with 59 

Milk  Porridge 408,  409 

Milk   Punch 384 

Milk,  Rice 410 

Milk,  Sago 410 

Milk  Soup 408 

Milk,  Tapioca 410 

Milk,  Thickened 408 

Milk,  Thick  Sour,  Use  of 200 

Milk  Toast 20S,  209  i 


page 
Milk,  to  destroy  the  Unpleasant 
Flavor  of,  from  cows  feeding 

on  turnips 206 

Milk,  to  keep 202,  203 

Minced  Beef so 

:.IiNCS  Pie,  Apple 203,  264 

Mince  Pie,  Meat 261 

Mince  Pie  Meat,  Domestic. 262,  253 
Mince  Pie  Mixture,  to  finish...  263 
Mince  Pie  Mixture,  to  make. . .  262 
Mince  Pie,  to  be  served  warm.... 262 

Mince  Pie,  to  make 263 

Mince  Pies,  Delicious 424 

Mince,  White,  of  Veal 426 

Mint  Sauce. 197 

Minute  Pudding 2il,  280 

Miscellaneous  Receipts 407-432 

Mixture,  Mince  Pie,  to  finish. . . .  263 
Mixture,  Mince  Pie,  to  make.. . .  262 

Mock  Cream 221 

Mock  Cream  Pie 259 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 20 

Mock  Venison,  to  make 128,  127 

Molasses  Candy  (Taffy) 341,  342 

Molasses  Cup  Cake« 297 

Moss,  Carrigan 408 

Mottoes,  to  make 324 

Mould,  Omelette  Souffie  in  a  . . .  238 

Mould  on  Preserves 344 

Mrs.  Cowing's  Peach   Pickles  39T 

Mrs.  Madison's  Whim 313 

Muffins 417 

Muffins,  Buttermilk 280 

Muffins,  Indian  Meal 277 

Muffins,  to  make 280,  281 

Mulberries,  to  preserve 382 

Mulberry  Syrup 382 

Mulled  Cider 409,  410 

Mulled  Wine 410 

Muscles,  to  cook 61 

Muscles,  to  stew 64 

Mushrooms,  Description  of. ..  191,  192 

Mushrooms,  to  broil 192 

Mushrooms  with  Beefsteak 420 

MusKMELON,  Preserved 354 

M  us  km  ELONS,    to    prepare     for 

Table 387 

Mustard,  to  make 394 

Mutton,  a  Breast  of,  to  broil 123 

Mutton,  a  shoulder  of,  to  broil. .  129 
Mutton  Broth 23,  23 


468 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Mutton  Chops,  Broiiea ,  130 

Mutton  Chops,  Fried 129, 130 

Mutton  Currie 129 

Mutton  Hams, 127 

Mutton,  Haunch  of,  to  carve 442 

Mutton,  Haunch  of,  to  cook..  128, 129 

Mutton,  Joints  of 433 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  boiled 130 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  to  carve 443 

Mutton,  Leg  of,  to  roast 123 

Mutton,  Loin  of,  to  carve 442 

Mutton,  Observations  on 125, 126 

Mutton  Pasty,  to  cat  like  Venison  12t) 

Mutton,  Saddle  of,  to  carve 442 

Mutton,  Shoulder  of,  to  carve. . .  442 

Mutton  Steaks,  to  broil 130 

Mutton,  to  make  Mock  Venison 

from 126,127 

Mutton,  to  make  taste  like  Ven- 
ison   12o 

Naples  Biscuit 308 

Nasturtium,  or  Imitation  Caper 

Sauce 196 

Nasturtiums,  to  pickle 391 

Nectarines,  to  bottle 383 

Nectarines,  to  candy 382,  383 

Nectarines,  to  preserve 332 

New-Year's  Day,  a  Cold  Colla- 
tion for: 405 

New-Ye AR's  Dinner 405 

Noodles  and  Beefsteak 419 

Noodles  for  Soup,  to  make 419 

Nothings,  to  make 250 

Nuts,  Ginger 297 

Oatmeal  Gruel,  to  make 40';i 

Oatmeal,  to  cook 277 

Olives,  to  pickle  plums  like.  .391,  302 

Omelette  au  Naturel 167 

Omelette,  Dutch 168,  169 

Omelette  for  Dessert 229 

Omelette,  French 167,  108 

Omelette  Glacee 240 

Omelette,  Ham 168 

Omelette  of  Hard-sliell  Clams..    53 

Omelette  of  Smoked  Beef 109 

Omelette  Souflee 233 

Omelette  Souflee  in  a  Mould..  238 

Omelette,  Spanish 168 

Omelette,  to  make  an 168 


page 
Omelette  wtih  Sweetmeats.. 239,  240 

One-two-three-four  Cake, 294 

Onion  and  Beef  Stevv^ 78,  79 

Onion  Sauce 197 

Onion  Soup 22 

Onions,  Beefsteak  with 71 

Onions,  Green,    to   prepare   for 

Table 189 

Onions,  Store,  to  dress 189 

Onions,  to  boil 189, 190 

Onions,  to  pickle 391 

Onions,  Winter,  to  dress 189 

Orange  Jelly 357 

Orange  Peel.  Candied 358 

Orange  Pudding 413,  414 

Orange  Sherbet 334 

Orange  Sugar 333 

Orange-water 333 

Orange-water  Ice •. . .  334 

Oranges  as  Dessert 401 

Oranges  in  Jelly 354,  355 

Orgeat 334,  335 

Ornamental  Frosting 320 

Ornaments  for  Pies 258,  259 

Ovens,  Remarks  on 343,  344 

Ox-head  Soup 17 

Oyster  Catsup 394 

Oyster  Chowder,  to  make 61,  62 

Oyster  Fritters,  to  make 56,  57 

Oyster  Pie,  to  make 62,  03 

Oyster  Pie,  to  serve 63 

Oyster  Sauce 197 

Oyster  Soup,  to  make 15, 16 

Oyster  Supper,  Directions  con- 
cerning  328,  329 

Oyster,  Vegetable,  to  cook 191 

Oysters  au  Parmesan 63 

Oysters,  Choice  of 56 

Oysters,  Panned 431,  432 

Oysters,  Pickled,  to  serve 61 

Oysters,  Scolloped 63,  64 

Oysters,  Season  for 56 

Oysters,  Small,  to  fry 58 

Oysters,  Small,  to  pickle 61 

Oysters,  Swectljreads  like 426 

Oysters,  to  boil 58,  59 

Oysters,  to  broil 58 

Oysters,  to  feed 50 

Oysters,  to  fricassee 59 

Oysters,  to  fry 57 

Oysters,  to  fry  in  Batter 57 


INDEX. 


4G9 


PAGE  . 

Oysters,  to  pickle  {No.  i) 69,  60 

Oysteks,  to  pickle  (No.  2) 60,  61 

Oysters,  to  roast 58 

Oysters,  to  stew  witli  Milk 59 

Oysteks,  to  stew  with  Wine  ....    63 

Palo-Alto  Cakes 303 

Panada 410 

Pancakes,  Egg 232 

Pancakes,  Jelly 232,  233 

Panned  Oysters 431,  432 

Parmesan,  Oysters  au 63 

Parsley  Sauce 195 

Parsnip  Fritters 185,186 

Parsnip  Stew 120 

Parsnips,  to  boil 185 

Parsnips,  to  fry .- 185 

Parties,  Evening,  Rcfresliments 

for 326,  327 

Partridge,  to  carve 449 

Partridges,  to  cook 160 

Party,  Tea,  Directions  dbout  327, 328 
Party,  Winter,  Refreshments  for  327 

Paste  Cakes 284 

Paste  Jelly  Tarts,  Sweet 243 

Paste  Pudding,  with  Fruit 214 

Paste,  Puff,  Common  (for  Pies)245, 246 

Paste,  Puff,  Finest  (for  Puffs) 245 

Paste,  Puff,  Light 246 

Paste  Puffs 247 

Paste  Tarts 247 

Pasty,  Mutton,  to  eat  like  Veni- 
son   126 

Pasty,  Venison 133,  134 

Patience,  Tablets  de 309, 310 

Patties,  Chicken 142, 143 

Peach  Charlotie 215 

Peach  Dumplings  (Dried) 213 

Peach  Dumplings  (Ripe) 214 

Peach  Fritters 423 

Peach  Jelly 362,  333 

Peach  Marmalade 302 

Peach  Pickles,  Mrs.  Co  wing's..  397 

Peach  Pie  (Dried) 253 

Peach  Pie  (Ripe) 255 

Peach  Pie  (Whole) 255 

Peach  Pot-Pie 418 

Peach  Preserve 303,  364 

Peach  Tart  (Dried) 253 

Peaches,  Brandied 361,  362 

Peaches,  Brandy 361 


page 
Peaches,  Fried .,..,  199 

Peaches,  Ripe,   to   prepare    for 

Table 385,  386 

Peaches,  to  dry  363 

Peaches,  to  pickle 392,393 

Peaches,  to  preserve 359,  36tT 

Peaches,  to  preserve  •wliole..360,  361 
Peaches,  to     preserve    without 
cooking    (equal    to    Brandy 

Peaches) 422 

Peaches,  to  stew 376 

Pearlash  Cake 296 

Pear  Marmalade 375 

Pears,  Large  Bell,  to  preserve .. .  375 

Pears,  to  bake 375,  376 

Pears,  to  dry 374 

Pears  to  preserve 374, 375 

Pears,  to  preserve  in  Brandy. . . .  374 

Pears,  to  stew 375 

Pea  Soup  (Green) 17, 18 

Peas,  Green,  to  cook 181 

Peas,  Lamb  stewed  with 122 

Peas,  Marrowfat,  to  cook 181,  182 

Peas  (Split)  Soup 21 

Peel,    Orange    and   Lemon,    to 

candy 358 

Peppermint  Candy 341 

Peppers,  Green,  to  pickle. . .  .388, 389 

Perch,  to  carve 440 

Perch,  to  fry 41 

Pheasant,  to  carve 449,  450 

Pickle  for  beef 65,  67 

Pickled  Beef 68 

Pickled  Clams 55 

Pickled  Oysters 59-61 

Pickled  Pork 96 

Pickled  Salmon 43 

Pickles,  Directions  for  making 
(see  under  their  respective 

names) 388-397 

Beets 394,  395 

Butternuts 392 

Cabbage,  Red 394 

Cucumbers 388,   389 

Green  Beans 392 

Green  Peppers 389,  390 

Melon  Mangoes 390,  391 

Nasturtiums 391 

Onions 391 

Peaches 392,  393,  397 

Plums. 391,392,397 


470 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Pickles,  Directions  for  making 
{corUinuea). 

Tomatoes 395 

Walnuts 392 

Pickles,  Management  of. 395-397 

Pickles,  Peach,  Mrs.  Cowing's...  397 

Pickerel,  to  cook 47 

Pickles,  to  color  Green 342 

Pickles,  Water-melon 411 

Pie,  a  Labor-saving 259 

Pie,  Apple 251 

Pie,  Apple  (Dried) 252 

Pie,  Beefsteak 77,  78 

Pie,  Blackberry 258 

Pie,  Cherry  (Dried) 254 

Pie,  Cherry  (6our) 254,  255 

Pie,  Chicken 140,  141 

Pie,  Chicken,  to  serve 63 

Pie,  Clam,  to  make 53,  54 

Pie,  Cranberry 255 

Pie,  Cream 253,  259 

Pie  Crust,  Family  (Short). . .  .247,  248 

Pie,  Currant  (Green) 257,  258 

Pie,  Currant  (Ripe) 257 

Pie,  Custard,  which  makes   its 

own  Paste 259 

Pie,  GoosebciTy 258 

Pie,  Grape  (Green) 258 

Pie,  Green  Gage 254 

Pie,  HucklebeiTy 257 

Pie,  Huckleberry  and  Grape 25S 

Pie,  Lemon 250 

Pie-making,  Remarks  on — 250,  251 

Pie,  Meat,  to  serve C3 

Pie,  Meringue 25G,  264 

Pie,  Mince,  Apple 263,  264 

Pie,  Mince,  Meat  for 201 

Pie,  Mince,  Meat  for  Domestic  202,  253 
Pie,  Mince,  Mixture,  to  finish . . .  263 
Pie,  Mince,  Mixture,  to  make...  262 
Pie,  Mince,  to  be  served  Warm..  262 

Pie,  Mince,  to  make 203,  424 

Pie,  Mock  Cream 250 

Pie,  Oyster,  to  make C2,  63 

Pie,  Oyster,  to  serve 03 

Pie,  Peacli  (Dried) 253 

Pie,  Peach  (Ilipe) 255 

Pie,  Peach  (Whole) 255 

Pie,  Pigeon 158,  150 

Pie,  Pig's  Feet 106,  107 

Pie,  Plum  (Dried) '.  253 


PAGE 

Pie,  Plum  (Green) 254 

Pie,  Plum  (liipe) 253,  254 

PrE,  Pork  and  Apple 418 

Pie,  Pumpkin 260 

Pie,  Rhubarb 256 

PiE,  Rice 259,  412 

Pie,  Rice  Flour 2C0 

Pie,  Sweet  Potato 177 

Pie,  Thanksgiving 260,  261 

Pie,  Tomato 411 

Pie,  Veal 92,  93 

Pie,  Whortleberry 257 

Pies,  Custard 259 

Pies,  Directions  for  baking  and 
making  (see    Puddings   and 

Tarts) 243-264 

Pies,  Mince,  Delicious 424 

Pies,  Ornaments  for 258,  259 

Pies,  Putr  Paste  for 245,  246 

Pig,  Roast,  Sauces  to  serve  Avith 

(see  P07^k) " 104 

Pig,  Roast,  to  carve 447 

Pig,  to  bake  a 104 

Pig,  to  roast  a 103 

Pig,  to  roast  like  Lamb 105 

Pig's  Cheek,  to  cook 108 

PIG'S  Feet  Pie 106,  107 

Pig's  Feet,  soused 108 

Pig's  Harslet,  to  make  a  Dish  of  104 
Pig's  Head,  to  prepare  for  bak- 
ing  102, 103 

Pigeon  Cutlets 160 

Pigeon  Pie 153,  159 

Pigeon  Pot-pie 159 

Pigeons,  Choice  of 154,  155 

Pi(;eons,  to  broil 155 

Pigeons,  to  carve 450 

Pigeons,  to  fry 155,  156 

Pigeons,  to  make  a  Bird's  Nest 

of 156,  157 

Pigeons,  to  roast 159,  160 

Pigeons,  to  stew  brown 157,  158 

Pigeons,  to  stew  (White) 156 

Pike  or  Pickerel,  to  cook 47 

Pine  Apple,  Dessert  of 401 

Pine- APPLE  Jelly 3-i7,  348 

Pine- APPLE  Preserve 347 

PiNE-APPLE  Syrup 335,  336 

Pine-apples,  to  preserve  whole.  348 
PiNE-APPLES  to  preserve  witliout 
cooking 34C,  347 


nJDEX. 


471 


PAGE  , 

Pink,  to  color  Preserves 343 

I'lXK,  to  prepare   Cochineal  for 

coloriDg 321 

Pippins,  to  preserve  in  Slices 3>3 

Pistachio  Biscuttes 32 J 

Pistachio  Biscuit 322,  323 

Plaice,  to  carve 44i 

Plant,  Egg,  to  coo:c 101 

Pn'ii  Cake 314 

Plum  Pie  (Dried) 203 

Plum  Pie  (Green) 254 

Plum  Pie  (lUpc) 233,254 

Plum  Pudding 219,  220,  413 

Plum  Pudding,  Ciiristnias...2l8,  219 

Plum  Pudding,  Sauce  lor 242 

Plum  Takt  (Dried) 253 

Plums,  General  Remarks  on 370 

Plums,    Green    Gage,    to   bran- 
dy   372,  373 

Plums,  Green  Gage,  to  preserve  372 

Plums,  Large,  to  preserve 411 

Plums,  Purple,  to  preserve 371 

Plums,  to  dry 371 

Plums,  to  pickle 397 

Plums,  to  pickle  like  Olives,. 391,  3j2 
Plums,  to  preserve  for  Tarts,  or 

Common  Use 381,  382 

Plums,  to  preserve  jn Brandy....  372 
Plums,  to  preserve  without  the 

Skins S71 

Poached  Eggs 366 

Poached  Eggs,  in  Balls 167 

Poached  Eggs,  with  Fried  Ham  114 

Pods,  RadLsli,  to  pickle 395 

PoxE,    or   Corn-meal    Breakfast 

Cake 274,  275 

Pop,  Biittennilk 409 

Pork,  a  Hand  of,  to  carve  (see 

Pirj) 447 

Pork,  a  Leg  of,  to  carve 447 

Pork,  a  Loin  of,  to  carve 447 

Pork  and  Apple  Pie.... 418 

Pork  and  Beans,  to  bake 115 

Pork  and  Beans,  to  boil 115 

Pork,  a  Pickle  for 99,  lOO 

Pork  Cheese,  soused &S 

Pork,  Choice  of 95,  r6 

Pork  Chops,  to  cook 109 

Pore,  Corned,  and  Beans 115 

Pork,  Corned,  to  boil  with  Vege- 
tables  117,  118 


PAGE 

Pork  Cutlets,  to  cook ip9 

Pork,  Fresh,  to  stew 105,  106 

Pork,  General  Remarks  on 95,  96 

Pork  Hams  (see  Hcmis) 107 

Pork,  Headcheese 97 

Pork,  Joints  of 434 

Pork,  Leg  of,  to  bake  or  roast. . .  105 

Pork,  Leg  of,  to  boil 108 

Pork,  Loin  of,  to  roast 105 

Pork,  Pickled 96 

Pork,  Salt,  to  fry  or  broil 109,  110 

Pork,  Sauces  to  serve  with 10-4 

Pork  Sausages,  Meat  for 100 

Pork  Sausages  (to  eat  cold),  to 

m  :i-  • 101,  102 

For::  SAUs..Gt:s,  to  make 100,  101 

POKX,  Smoked,  to  make  a  Stew 

of. 108 

Pork,  Spare-nb  of 96 

Pork  Steaks,  to  cook 109 

Pork,  Tenderloin  of 105 

Pork,  to  salt  (Farmers'  Way) 98 

Porridge,  Milk 40S,  409 

Portable  Soup,  to  make 14,  15 

Porter-house  Steaks 76 

Portugal  Cakes 295 

Potato  and  Beef  Hash 75,  76 

Potato  and  Veal  Pie 93 

Potato  Bread 270,  271 

Potato  Cakes,    to    serve    Avitli 

Roast  Ducks 421 

Potato  Pudding ". 413 

Potato  Salad 430 

Potatoes  and  Cabbage,  to  cook 

together 194 

Potatoes  baked  in  Cups 423 

Potatoes,  Cold,   Boiled,  to  pro- 
pore  for  Table 174 

Potatoes  (Xew),  to  boil 173,  174 

Potatoes  (Oid),  Mashed 173 

Potatoes  (Old),  to  boil 172 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  to  bake 176 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  to  boil 176,177 

Potatoes,  Sweety  to  roast 176 

Potatoes,  to  bake 175 

Potatoes,  to  boil  with  Codfish..  112 

Potatoes,  to  broil 1 76 

Fotatoes,  to  cook  in  haste 174 

Potatoes,  to  fry 174,  175 

Potatoes,  to  hash 175 

Potatoes,  to  prepare  for  Soups. .    13 


472 


liTDEX. 


PAGE 

Potatoes,  to  roast 175,  itg 

Potatoes,  Veal  minced  with V2 

PoT-caKESE,  to  imike 2C6 

Pot-pie,  Cliicken 141, ^•;2 

Pot-pie,  Cliicken,  to  Dish  a 142 

Pot-pie,  Clam,  to  make 04,  53 

Pot-pie,  Goose IGO 

Pot-pie,  I'each 413 

Pot-pie,  Pigeon 139 

Pot-pie,  Veal 03,  94 

POULTUY,  Boiling  of 136 

Poultry,  Choice  of 135 

Poultry,  Game,  etc.,  to  carve  448-450 
Poultry,  General   Remarks   on 

(see  Chickens  and  Fowl) 135 

Poultry,  Pvoasting  of. 135,  136 

Poultry,  Sauces  for 195-199 

Poultry,  to   keep    from    taint- 
ing  ICl,  162 

Pound-cake,  Almond 306 

Pound-cake,  Cocoanut 306 

Pound-cakes,  Small 304 

Pound-cakes,  to  make 305 

Powder,  Currie,  to  make 19S 

Prepared  Flour,  to  make 289 

Preserved  Fruit,  Jars  for 344 

Preserves,  Foam  on 344,  345 

Preserves,  Mould  on 344 

Preserves,  Peach 363,  304 

Preserves,  Pine-apple 346-348 

Preserves,  Rhubarb 411 

Preserves,  Strawberry 364,  365 

Preserves,  Sugar  for 343 

Preserves,  to  color  Green 342 

Preserves,  to  color  Pink 313 

Preserves,  to  color  Yellow.. 342,  343 
Preserving    Fruits,  Directions 

for $ 343-345 

Preserving,  to  clarify  Sugar  for  345 

Prune  Pudding 215 

Prunes,  to  stew 3S0,  410,  4ii 

Pudding,  Almond,  baked 220 

Pudding,  Almond,  boiled 220,  221 

Pudding,  Apple,  baked 414 

Pudding,  Apple,  boiled 423 

Pudding,  Apple,     ]>oiled,     with 

Eggs 212 

Pudding,  Apple,  boiled,  without 

Eggs 212 

Pudding,  Batter,  boUed 225 

PXJDDIKO,  Batter,  Cheap ..... .216, 217 


PAGE 

Pudding,  Batter,  Rich 217 

Pudding,  Beefsteak 78 

Pudding,  Blackberry 230 

Pudding,     Bread    and     Butter, 

baked 226,  227 

Pudding^  Bread,  baked 225 

Pudding,  Bread, boiled.. 225,  220,  233 

Pudding  Carrot 415 

Pudding,  Cliarlie"s  Apple 414 

Pudding,  Cherry 229,  230 

Pudding,  Citron 217 

Pudding,  Cocoanut,  baked.  ..228,  413 
Pudding,  Cocoanut,  boiled... 217,  218 

Pudding,  Corn-meal 236,  237 

Pudding,  CuiTant 230 

Pudding,  Currant,  Dried 229 

Pudding,  Currant  Jelly 231 

Pudding,  Egg 227 

Pudding,  Farina 428 

Pudding,  Flour,  baked  in  Cups..  414 

Pudding,  Gotham 235 

Pudding,  Green  Corn 237,  238 

Pudding,  Huckleberry 230 

Pudding,  Indian,  baked 414 

Pudding,  Indian,  Cheap 224 

Pudding,  Indian.  Plain 415 

Pudding,  Indian,  to  make 120 

Pudding,  Lemon 220 

Pudding,  Lemon,  Rich 22^ 

Pudding,  Marlborougii 414 

Pudding,  Marrow 228 

Pudding,  Minute 211,  280 

Pudding,  Or^xnge 413,  414 

Pudding,  Paste,  with  Fruit 214 

Pudding,  Plum 219,  220,  413 

Pudding,  Plum,  Cliristhias...218,  219 

Pudding,  Plum,  Sauce  for 242 

Pudding,  Potato 413 

Pudding,  Prune 215 

Pudding,  Quaking 216 

Pudding,  Ratafia 233 

Pudding,  Rice  Flour 227 

Pudding,  Rice,  with  Eggs 227 

Pudding,  Rice,  without  Eggs 227 

Pudding  Sauces,  to  make 240-242 

Apple  Sauce 241,  242 

Brandy  or  Wine  Sauce 240 

Brandy  or  Wine  Sauce,  IJ- 

fjuid 240,  241 

Brandy  Sauce 240 

Cinnamon  Sauce ....243 


INDEX. 


473 


PAGE 

Pudding  Sauces,  to  make  {coti- 
tinued). 

Cranberry  Sauce 241 

Lemon  and  Syrup  Sauce 241 

Lemon  Sauce 241 

Lemon  Sauce,  Rich 242 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce 242 

Plum  Pudding,  Sauce  for —  242 

Sweet  Sauce 241 

Wine  Sauce 240,  241 

Pudding,  Sponge  Cake 229,  416 

Pudding,  Suet 412,  413 

Pudding,  Suet,  boiled 224,  225 

Pudding,  Suet,    Fruit,    without 

Eggs 430,  431 

Pudding,  Sweet  Potato 228 

Pudding,  Tapioca 413 

Pudding,  Transparent 234 

Pudding,  Vermicelli 412 

Pudding,  Wheat  and  lii;l;an..235,  236 

Pudding,  White-- 230 

Puddings,  baking  of. 210 

Puddings,  boiling  of. 209,  210 

Puddings,  Curd,  Small 234 

Puddings,  Etc.,  Directions  for 
making  (see  Pies,  TaHs,  and 

Dumplings) 209-242 

Puddings,  Lemon  Sauce  for 242 

Puddings,  Small 227,  228 

Puff  Paste,  Common  (for  Pies). .  245 
Puff  Paste,  Finest  (for  Puffs)  . . .  245 

Puff  Paste,  Light 246 

Puffs,  Paste 247 

Pumpkin  Pie 260 

Pumpkins,  to  preserve 171,  172 

Punch,  Champagne 406,  407 

Punch,  Milk 384 

Pyramid,  an  Ornamental 324 

Pyramid  of  Cocoa-nut  Drops, 
Macaroons,  or  Meringue,  to 
make  a 323,  324 

Quahogs  (see  Clams) 62 

Quails,  to  cook 160 

Quaking  Pudding 216 

Queen  Cake ^ 305 

Quince  and  Apple  Jelly 352 

Quince  Cheese 352,  353 

Quince  Jelly 351,  352 

Quince  Marmalade 351 

Quinces  in  Jelly  Syrup ,  .350,  351 


FAOB 

Quinces,  to  keep 349 

Quinces,  to  preserve 349,  350 

Quinces,  to  stew 376 

Rabbit,  to  carve 452 

Rabbit,  Welsh,  to  make 203 

Rabbits,  to   choose,   dress,  and 

cook 162-164 

Radishes,  Kinds  of. 187 

Radishes,  to  prepare  for  Table  187,188 

Radish  Pods,  to  pickle 395 

Ragout,  Beef,  to  make 72 

Ragout,  Veal 89,  90 

Ragout,  to  make  a,  of  stewed 

Goose 151,  152 

Raspberries,  Dried,  to  stew.. 366,  367 
Raspberries,  to  prepare  for  Table  386 

Raspberries,  to  preserve 368 

Raspberry  Jam 366 

Raspberry  Marmalade 366 

Raspberry  Syrup 335 

Raspberry  Vinegar 384 

Ratafia  Pudding 233 

Receipts,  Miscellaneous 407-432 

Red  Cabbage,  to  dress 187 

Red  Cabbage,  to  pickle 394 

Red,  to  color  Soup 14 

Red,  to  prepare    Cochineal   for 

coloring 321 

Refreshments     for    a    Winter 

Party 327 

Refreshments  for  Evening  Par- 
ties  326,  327 

Refreshment    Tables,     Direc- 
tions for  setting 325-329 

Rennet,  to  prepare 207,  208 

I  Rhubarb  Dumplings 214 

Rhubarb  Fritters 230 

Rhubarb  Pie 256 

Rhubarb  Preserve 411 

Rhubarb  Tart 256,  257 

Ribbon  Blanc-mange 223 

Rice  Cakes 422 

Rice  Custard 412 

Rice-flour  Blanc-mange 408 

Rice-flour  Pie 280 

Rice-flour  Pudding 227 

Rice-flour  Short-cakes 284 

Rice  Milk 410 

Rice  Pie 259,  412 

Rice  Pudding  with  Eggs. ...,,..  237 

u* 


474 


INDEX. 


PAGE  PAGE 

Rice  Pudding  ivithoiit  Eggs ....  227   Salsify,  to  cook 191 

Roast  Pig,  to  carve  (see  Pig) 447  ;  Salt  Fish,  to  soak  (see  Fish) 34 

Hock  ok  Lemon  Candy 340  i  Sandwiches,  to  make 329,  330 


RoLLA  Cheese,  to  make 69,  70  | 

Rolls,  Bakers',  to  make 273,  279  | 

Rolls,  Cream  of  Tartar 423  j 

Rolls,  Directions  for  baking....  235  ! 
Rolls,  Directions  for  making  —  264  1 

Rolls,  Frencli,  for  Tea 2S4  [ 

Rolls,  Light 283,  2S4 

Room,    Breakfast,    Arrangement 

and  Purnilarc  of 39;s-407 

Room,  Dining,  Arrangement  and 

Furniture  of 398-407 

Rose  Bkandy 333 

Rose  Candy 341 

Rout  Duop-cakes 312 

Rusk,  Egg 282,  283 

Rusk,  Tea 282 

RussE,  Charlotte 221,  222 

Ruta-baga  Tuknips,  to  boiL.119, 120 

Rl'ta-baga  Turnips,  to  cook 177 

Rye  Bread 272 

Rye  Bread  Cake 272,273 

Rye  Short-cakes 277 

Sago  Milk 410 

Sago,  to  cook 410 

Salad,  Asparagus 182,  1S3 

Salad,  Cabbage 1S6  j 

Salad,  Cauliflower 135  \ 

Salad,  Chicken 143,429,430  j 

Salad  Dressing 13G  : 

Salad,  Lobster 49,  50,  430  | 

Salad,  Potato 430  \ 

Salad,  Red  Cabbage 1S7 

Salad,  Water-cresses  used  as 194 

Saleratus,  Use  of,  in  Bread  or 

Cakes 265, 265 

Salmon,    Dried    or   Smoked,  to 

broil 43,  44 

Salmon,  Salt,  a  Dish  of 41 

Salmon,  Salt,  to  cook 41 

Salmon,  Spiced,  to  pickle 43 

Salmon,  to  bake 42 

Salmon,  to  boil 41,  42 

Salmon,  to  broil 42 

Salmon,  to  carve 440 

Salmon,  to  dry.  or  smoke 43 

Salmon,  to  tell  when  fresh 41 

Salmon  Trout,  to  cook 43 


Beef  Sandwich 320 

Biscuit  and  Jelly 303 

Bread  and  Butter 329 

Bread  for 329 

Cneese 329 

Cold  lileat _ .  329 

Eggs,  Cold,  boiled 329 

Fruit 329 

Ham 329 

Jelly 329 

Tongue 329 

Sangaree,  AVine 337 

Sauces  for  Meat,  Fisii,  Pouitry, 

or  Vegetables 195-199 

Anchovy  Sauce 196,  197 

Apple  Sauce 199 

Apples,  Fried 199 

Butter,  Clarified 198 

Butter,    Cold,    and    Vinegar 

Sauce 195,  196 

Butter,  Drawn,  to  make 195 

Butter^  Melted 19S 

Butter  Sauce 196 

Caper  Sauce,  Imitation 196 

Cranl>erry  Sauce,  or  Jam 199 

Cream  Sauce 198 

Currie  Powder 198 

Egg  Sauce 195 

Flour,  to  brown 196 

Lemon  Sauce 197,  198 

Lobster  Sauce 497 

Mint  Sauce 1 97 

Nastuitium  Sauce 196 

Onion  Sauce 197 

Oyster  Sauce 197 

Parsley  Sauce 195 

Peaches,  Fried 1G9 

Shalot  Sauce 196 

Sour  S;w.ice 195 

Sour  Sauce,   for  boiled   Lob- 
sters   48,  49 

Venison  Sauce 134 

Sauces  for  Puddings 240-242 

Apple  Sauce 241,  242 

Brandy  or  Wine  Sauce 240 

Brandy     or     Wine      Sauce, 

Liquid 240,  241 

Brandy  Sauce 240 


INDEX. 


475 


PAGE 

Sauces  for  Pudaings  {continueCL). 

Ciiinamoa  Sa  uce 242 

Cranberry  Sauce 241 

Lemon  and  Syrup  Sauce 241 

Lemon  Sauce 241 

Lemon  Sauce,  Rich 242 

Maple  Su^ar  Sauce 242 

rium  Pudding,  Sauce  for 242 

Sweet  Sauce 241 

Wine  Sauce 240,  241 

Sauces,  to  serve  v.itii  Roast  Pig 

or  Pork 104 

Sausage  Meat,  Beef Go 

Sausage  Meat,  Pork loa 

Sausage    Meat,    to   cook   witli 

Vegetables 117 

Sausages,  Bologna,  to  make 102 

Sausages,  Fried,  Vegetables  with  iiT 

Sausages,  Pork,  Meat  for 100 

Sausages,  Pork,  to  make lOO,  loi 

Sausages,  to  fry 421 

Sausages,  Veal s: 

Savoy  Biscuit GOT,  oos 

Savoy  Cabbage lis 

Savoy  Soup 20 

Scolloped  Clams c6 

Scolloped  Oysters 03,  Gi 

Scolloped  Tomatoes 194 

Scollops,  to  boil CO 

ScoTcu  Cake 315,  SIG 

Sea  Bass,  to  cook 39 

Sea  Clams,  to  cook 55 

Shad,  baked 38,  39 

Shad,  broiled 3S 

Shad,  fried 37,  33 

Shad,  to  dry  or  smoke 43 

Shad,  wlien  in  season 37 

Shalot  Sauce 196 

Shalots,  to  prepare  for  Table.. . .  1S9 
Sheep's  Harslet,  haslied....l27,  12S 
Shell-fish,  Directions  for  cook- 
ing (see   under  respective 

names) 4S-64 

Clams,  Hard-sliell 51-o.j 

Clams,  Sea 55 

Clams,  Soft-shell 59,  51 

Crabs 59 

Lobsters 4S-5v) 

Muscles 04 

Oysters  (see  Oysters) 56-64 

Scollops 50 


page 

Sherbet,  Cream 385 

Sherbet,  Lemon 385 

Sherbet,  Orange 334 

Sherbet,  Strawberry 335,  355 

Shin  of  Beef  Soup 23,  24 

SnouT-CAKE,.  Strawberry  418,  431,  432 

Short-cakes 284 

Short-cakes,  Rice  Flour 284 

Short-cakes,  Rye 277 

Simple  Syrup,  to  make 339,  340 

Skirts,  Beef,  t  o  cook 66,  72 

Small  Birds,  to  broil  {.see  Birds)  161 

Small  Cakes,  to  make 292,  293 

Small  Puddings 227,  223 

Smoked  Beef  (see  Beef,  Smoked)    75 

Snaps,  Ginger 296 

Snipe,  to  cook 160 

Snow,    a    Dish    of,— Cocoa-nut 

grated .238,  239 

Snow,  a  Dish  of,— Whipt  Cream  221 

Snow-balls 214,  215 

Snow  Creaji 331 

Soda  Cake 299 

Soda  or  Milk  Biscuit 285 

Soft  Crabs,  to  cook 430 

Soft  Ginger-bread 295,  296 

Soft     Ginger-bread,     without 

Eggs 296 

Soft  J  cmbles 299 

Soft-shell  Clams  (see  Clams). .    50 

Soles,  to  carve 441 

Soufflee,  Omelette 233 

Soufflee  Omelette,  in  a  Mould  238 

Soup  Beef 24,  25 

Soup,  Brown  Gravy 420 

Soup,  Bullhead 19 

Soup,  Cabbage 30 

Soup,  Cab])age  and  Milk 16,  17 

Soup,  Calf's  Head 26,  27 

Soup,  Catfish 19 

Soup,  Chicken,  V7hite 22 

Soup,  Chicken,  Yellov,' 21,  22 

SoL'P,  Clam 29 

Soup,  Dried  Bean 21 

Soup,  Egg  Balls  for 28 

Soup,  Egg  Dumplings  for 28 

Soup,  Fish 21 

i'-^K)VV,  Green  Bean -0,  21 

Soup,  Green  Corn 409 

Soup,  Green  Pea 17, 18 

Soup,  Ilarc 23 


476 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

SOUP  IN  Haste 31 

Soup,  Julienne 427 

Socp,  Lamb 25,  2G 

Soup,  Lobster 16 

Soup,  Macaroni 28 

Soup,  Maigre 20 

Soup,  Milk 408 

Soup,  Milk  and  Cabbage 16,  17 

Soup,  Mock  Turtle 20 

Soup,  Noodles  for 419 

Soup,  Onion 22 

Soup,  Ox-head 17 

Soup,  Oyster 15,  16 

Soup,  Pea  (Green) 17,  18 

Soup,  Portable 14,  15 

Soup,  Savoj 20 

Soup,  Sliin  of  Beef. 23,  24 

Soup,  soon  made 31 

Soup,  Split  Peas 21 

Soup,  Stock  for  Gravy 29,  30 

Soup,  to  prepare  Vegetables  for  12-14 

Soup,  Turtle,  to  make 18,  19 

Soup,  Veal 25,  26 

Soup,  Vegetable,  for  Summer.. 30,  31 

Soup,  Vegetables  for 12,  13 

Soup,  Vermicelli 28 

Soup,  without  Meat 19 

SOUPON,  fried 237 

SouPON,  to  make 236,  237 

Soups  (see  Broth) 11-31 

Soups,  Browning  for 31 

Soups,  Directions  for  making.,  .11-14 

Soups,  Tiiickening  for 13 

Soups,  to  color  brown 14 

Soups,  to  color  green 14 

Soups,  to  color  red 14 

Soups,  to  color  yellow 14 

Soups,  Vegetables  for 12-14 

Soups,  white^  to  make 14 

Sour  Kraut,  to  make 112,  113 

Sour  Kraut,  to  serve  113 

Sour  Sauce 195 

Sour  Sauce  for  boiled  Lobsters  48,  49 

Spanish  Cakes 295 

Spanish  Omelette 163 

Spice  Biscuits,  Almond 315,  321 

Spice  Cakes,  Rich 294,295 

Spice  Cakes,  to  make 294 

Spiced  Salmon,  to  pickle 43 

Spinach,  boiled lis,  119 

Spinach,  to  cook 180,  181 


PAGE 

Spinach,  with  fried  Sausages....  117 

Split  Peas  Soup 21 

Sponge  Cake 307,  415 

Sponge  Cake,  Cocoanut 312 

Sponge-cake  Pudding 229,  416 

Sponge  Cakes,    General    Rules 

for  making 416 

Sponge  Cakes,  smaU 293,294,  307 

Spoon  Biscuits 309 

Sprouts,  Cabbage,  to  boil 178,  179 

Squash,  Summer,  to  cook.... 177,  178 

Squash,  Winter,  to  cook 173 

Squirrels,  to  choose,  dress,  and 

cook 162-164 

Stains,  to  remove  from  the  Hand  411 

Starch,  Corn,  Custard 429 

Starch,  Corn,  to  cook 428 

Steaks,  Beef,  Clioice  of  (see  Beef- 
steak)      76 

Steaks,  CodQsh,  fried 36,  37 

Steaks,  Lamb,  with  Wine  or  Cur- 
rant Jelly 1-22,  123 

Steaks,  Mutton,  to  broil 130 

Steaks,  Pork,  to  cook 109 

Steaks,  Porter-house 78 

Steaks,  Sirloin 76 

Steaks,  Venison,  fried 131,132 

Steaks,  Venison,  to  broil 132 

Stew,  Beef  and  Onion *.  78,  79 

Stew  ok  Smoked  Pork,  to  make  108 

Stew,  Parsnip 120 

Stews,  Powder  for  flavoring 198 

Stock  for  Gravy 29,  30 

Stock  for  Gravy  Soup 29,  30 

Store  Onions,  to  dress 189 

Strainers,  Jelly 348,  349 

Strawberries,    to   prepare   for 

Table 386 

Strawberries,  to  preserve .. 384,  365 
Strawberries,      to       preserve 

AVhole  366 

Strawberries   to  stew  for  Tarts  366 

Strawberry  Jam .365,  366 

.Strawberry  Marmalade..  .365,  366 

Strawberry  Sherbet 335,  385 

Strawberry  Short-cake... 418,  431 

Strawberry  Syrup •    335 

Striped  Ba.ss,  to  l)oil 41 

Striped  Bass,  to  fry 41 

Stuffing  for  boiled  Fowl 1.36 

Stuffing  for  roast  Fowl.. . . .  .135,  136 


INDEX. 


477 


PAGE 

Succotash,  to  make  116, 117, 183, 184 
.Suet   Fkuit    Pudding,  without 

Eggs 430,  431 

Suet  Tudding 412,  413 

Suet  Pudding,  boiled 224,  225 

SuGAK  Diiop  Cakes 311,  312 

Sugar  lor  Preserves 343 

Sugar,  Lemon 333 

Sugar,  Orange 333 

Sugar  Paste  Cream  Tarts —  248 
Sugar,  to  clarify  lor  Candies —  339 
Sugar,    to   clarify   for    preserv- 
ing   345 

Summer  Squash,  to  cook 177,  178 

Summer  Vegetable  Soup 30,  31 

Suppers,      Oyster,      Directions 

about 328,  329 

Sweetbread,  Larded 424,  425 

Sweetbreads  like  Oysters 426 

*  Sweetbreads,  to  fry 425 

Sweetbreads,  to  roast 425 

Sweetbreads,  to  stew 425 

Sweetbreads,  Veal 87,  88 

Sweet  Macaroni 427 

Sweetmeats,  Omelette  with.. 239,  240 
Sweet  or  Carolina  Potatoes..  176 

Sweet  Paste  Jelly  Tarts 248 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 177 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 228 

Sweet  Potatoes,  to  bake 176 

Sweet  Potatoes  to  boil 176,  177 

Sweet  Potatoes,  to  roast 176 

Sweet  Sauce 241 

Syllabub 337 

Syrup  and  Lemon  Sauce 241 

Syrup,  Blackberry 369 

Syrup,  Jelly,  Quinces  in .350,  351 

Syrup,  Lemon 333 

Syrup,  Mulberry 382 

Syrup  of  Cream 331 

Syrup,  Pine-apple 335,  335 

Syrup,  Raspberry 335 

Syrup,  Simple,  to  make 339,  340 

Syrup,  Strawberry 335 

Syrup,  Vanilla 336 

Table,  Arrangement  of,  for 
Breakfast 398-400 

Table,     Dinner,     Arrangement 

of 402-404 

Table,  Dinner,  Etiquette  of... 435-438 


page 
Table,  Tea,  Arrangement  of  and 
Dills  of  Fare  for,  in  Summer 

and  Winter 401,  402 

Table,  to  prepare  Ripe  Fruits  or 

Melons  for 385-387 

Tables,  Refreshment,  Directions 

for  setting 325-329 

Tablets  de  Patience 309,  310 

Taffy,  to  make 341,  342 

Tainting,   how   to   keep    Game 

from 161, 162 

Tapioca  Milk 410 

Tapioca  Pudding 413 

Tart,  Apple 251,  252 

Tart,  Apple  (Dried) 252,  253 

Tarts,  Cranberry 255 

Tarts,  Currant  (Green) 257,  258 

Tarts,  Etc.,  Directions  for  bak- 
ing and  making 243-264 

Tarts,  Gooseberry 258 

Tarts,  Grape  (Green) 258 

Tarts,  Green  Gage 254 

Tarts,  Paste 247 

Tarts,  Peach  (Dried) 253 

Tarts,  Plum  (Dried) 253 

Tarts,  Rliubarb 256,  257 

Tarts,  Strawberries  stewed  for..  366 

Tarts,  Sugar  Paste  Cream 248 

Tarts,  Sweet  Paste  Jelly 248 

Tarts,  Tomato 411 

Tarts,  to  preserve  Fruit  for.  .381,  382 

Taylor  Cakes 293 

Tea,  Black,  to  make 331 

Tea-cake,  French 310,  311 

Tea-cake,  Thanksgiving 305,  306 

Tea-cakes,  Buttermilk 281,  282 

Tea-cakes,  Cream 281 

Tea-cakes— Wigs 297,  298 

Teacup  Cake  without  Eggs 299 

Tea,  French  Rolls  for 284 

Tea,  Green,  to  make 330,  331 

Tea,  Indian-meal  Bread  for 274 

Tea-party,  Directions  about.. 327,  328 

Tea,  Ripe  Cherries  for .387 

Tea,  Ripe  Currants  for 387 

Tea  Rusk 252 

Tea-table,  Directions  for  set- 
ting   .327,  323 

Tea-table,  Summer,  Arrange- 
ment of,  and  Bill  of  Fare 
^or 401,402 


478 


IXDEX. 


PAGE 

Tea-table,  Winter,  Arrangement 

of,  and  BUI  of  Fare  for 402 

Tea,  to  serve  Pine-apples  at 401 

TEoIPEr.AXCE  Bevekage,  a 403 

Terkapins 432 

THANKSGIVINr/  DINInER,  a 403 

Thanksgiving  Pie 200.  2C1 

Thanksgiving  Tea-cake  ,  ...G05,  303 

Toast,  Milk 20S,  209 

Toast,  to  make 203 

Toast,  vratcr 40 J 

Toast  without  Diuter 2G9 

To>iATO  Catsup 3D3,  Gj4,  419 

Tomato  J aji 37^ 

Tomato  Pie 4il 

Tomato  Tart 4ii 

Tomatoes,  Candied 377,  37S 

Tomatoes,  Scolloped 191 

Tomatoes,  to  bake 193 

Tomatoes,  to  broil 193,  194 

Tomatoes,  to  fry 421 

Tomatoes,  to  pickle 39.3 

Tomatoes,  to  preserve 377 

Tomatoes,  to  serve  raw 193 

Tomatoes,  to  stew 193 

Tomatoes  witli  Beefsteak 420.  421 

ToNGL'E,  a,  to  carve 4 i3 

Tongue  Sandwich 329 

Tongues,  Beeves',  to  pickle C7,  Co 

Tongues,  Beeves',  to  smoke C7 

Tongues,  Pigs',  to  smoke 99 

Transparent  Marmalade 321 

Transparent  Pudding   2.:i 

Trifle 2 1 s 

Trifle  Cake 3 ;? 

Trifles,  to  make 2:-'. 

Tripe,  Beef C. 

Tripe,  Beef,  to  broil T  j 

Tripe,  Beef,  to  clean C3,  09 

Tripe,  Beef,  to  fricassee 79 

Tripe,  Beef,  to  fry Cj 

Tripe,    Beef,    to    make     Rolla 

Clieese  v»'ith 09,  70 

Trout,  Salmon,  to  cock 43 

Trout,  to  cook 40 

TuRPOT,  to  carvet 441 

TuRKEV,  Fricasseed  (Browa)..l47,  l-lS 

Turkey,  Fricasseed  (White) 147 

Turkey,  Boast 14 i-i4''. 

Turkey,  to  boil ur,,  in 

Turkey  to  carve 430 


PAGE 

Turkeys,  Choice  of 143,  144 

Turnips,  Green  Leaves  of,  to  boil  178 
Turnips,  Buta-baga,   Directions 

for  boiling ii9,  120,  177 

Turnips,  to  destroy  tlie  Unpleas- 
ant Flavor  imparted  to  Miik 

by  Co'.vs  feeding  on 203 

Turnips,  Winter,  to  cook 177 

Turnips,  Yellow,  to  boil 119, 120 

Turnips,  Young,  to  l;oil 1"7 

Turnpike  Cakes,  to  make... 2:7,  2T3 

Turtle  Soup  (Mock) 20 

Turtle  Soup,  to  make 13, 19 

Twist  Bread 271 

Twist,  Common  Candy 341 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 332 

Vanilla  Syrup 336 

Veal,  a  Breast  of,  to  carve 445 

Veal,  a  Fillet  of,  to  carve 440 

Veal,  a  Loin  of,  to  carve 44G 

Veal  and  Potato  Pie ..,.    03 

Veal  Broth ....    .23 

Veal  Cakes 426 

Veal,  Choice  of 34,  85 

Veal  Chops,  Gravy  for S3,  89 

Veal  Chops,  to  fry  or  brcU SS,  80 

Veal  Chops,  to  stev,- 89 

Veal  Collops 426 

Veal,  Fore  Quarter  of,  to  dress 

a 411 

Veal,  Joints  of 434 

Veai^  Minced  v.Uth  Potatoes 92 

Veal  Pie 92,  03 

Veal  Pot-pi;: 93,  C4 

Veal,  Roasted    to   look   like   a 

Duck 91,  02 

Veal  Sausages 87 

Veal  Soup 23,  26 

Veal,  stewed  brown 19 

Veal,    stewed   vrith   Vegetables 

( Ragout ) 89,  00 

Veal  Sweetbreads S7.  88 

Veal,  to  boil 85 

Veal,  to  hash 92 

Veal,  to  ro.ist CO,  CI 

Veal,  Wliito  Mince  of. 423 

VEGETAliLE   OYSTER,  tO  COOk 101 

V.-:ge:ta3LE  Soup  f£*r  Summer.  .30,  31 
Vegt;tap.lks  boilf^d  with  Ham  (a 
i        Family  Dinner) 115,113 


INDEX. 


479 


PAGE 

Vegetables,  Directions  for  boil- 
ing and  serving  Meat  with..  112 

VEGUTABi^Es  icr  Roast  l>ecf 81 

Vegetables  for  Roast  Goose  ....  151 

Vegetables  for  Soups 12-14 

Vegetables,  Sauces  for 195-199 

Vegetables,  to  boll  "vvitli  Corned 

Beef 110 

Vegetables,  to  boil  witli  Corned 

Pork 117,  118 

Vegetables,  to  boil  with  Salted 

Reef 119 

Vegetables,  to   cook,  etc.   (see 
also  under  their  respective 

names) lTO-194 

Artichokes 1S8,  189 

Asparagus 182, 183 

Beans 183 

Beans  Lima 184 

Beets 1T9,  ISO 

Cabbages ISG,  187,  194 

Cabbage  Sprouts ITS,  179 

Carrots 184,  185 

Cauliflower 185 

Celery 186 

Cucumbers 189 

Egg  Plant 191 

Green  Corn  (see  Corn) — 190,  191 

Homin}' 192 

Horse-radish 194 

Leeks 194 

Lettuce 188 

Muslirooms 1 01,  192 

Onions 139 

Parsnips 185,  150 

Peas ISl,  182 

Potatoes  (see  Potatoes) 172 

Radishes 187,  183 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster. .  191 

Shalots 1S9 

Spinach ISO,  181 

Squash .177,  178 

Sweet  Potatoes 176,  177 

Tomatoes 192-194 

Turnips 177 

Water-cresses 194 

Vegetables,    to    preserve    for 

Winter  Use 170-172 

Vegetables,  Veal  stewed  with  89,  90 
Vegetables  with  fried  Sausages  117 
VsLYET  Cakes 283 


page 

Venison,  a  Pretty  Dish  of. i;34 

Venjson,  Clioice  of 131 

Venison,  Haunch  of,  to  carve  ...  451 

Venison,  Mock,  to  make 126,  127 

Venison,  Mutton   Pasty,  to  eat 

like 126 

Venison  Pasty 133,  134 

Venison,  roasted 132,  133 

Venison  Sauce 134 

Venison  Steaks,  fried 131,  132 

Venison  Steaks,  to  l)roil 132 

Venison,  to  make  Mutton  taste 

like 126 

Venison,  to  stew 132 

Vermicelli  Pudding 412 

Vermicelli  Soup 28 

Vinegar    and     Cold     Rutteii 

Sauce 195,  196 

Vinegar,  Cider,  to  make 393 

Vinegar,  Raspberry 384 

Volatile  Salts,  Use  of,  in  Bread 

or  Cakes 265,  266 

Wafers  and  Jelly 291,  292 

'SVafers,  Cinnamon 293 

Wafers,  to  make 291 

Waffles,  to  make 290 

Waffles,  Yeast 290,  291 

Walnut  Catsup 393 

Walnuts,  to  pickle 392 

V7ASIIINGT0N  Breakfast-cake..  417 

Washington  Cake 304 

Water,  Apple 409 

Water,  Parley 410 

Water,  Cherry 383,  384 

Water-cresses,  to  dress 194 

Water,  Currant 333 

Water  Gruel,  to  make 407 

Water,  Lemon 333,  409 

Water,  Orange 333 

Vf  ATER,  Toast 409 

Watermelon  Pickles 411 

Watermelon  Preserves 353 

Watermelons,    to   prepare    for 

Table 387 

Webster  Cakes 302,  303 

Wedding  Cake,  to  make 313 

Welsh  Rabbit,  to  make *. ..  208 

"What     Cheer"     Cakes,     or 

Turnpike  Cakes 277 

Wheat  and  Indian  Bread.. 271»  272 


480 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Wheat  and  Indian  Crujipets..  276 
Wheat      and      Indian      Pud- 
ding   235,  236 

Wheat  Bkead,  to  make 2G9,  2T0 

Whim,  Mrs.  Madison's 313 

Whift  Cream 221 

White  Cakes 2D4 

White  Lady-cake 301,  302 

White  Mince  of  Veal 426 

White  Pudding 230 

White  Soup,  Chicken 22 

White  Soups,   Directions  about    14 
Whortleberries,  to  prepare  for 

Table 3S6,  387 

Whortleberry  Pie 257 

Wigs,  to  make 2S9,  290,  297,  298 

Wild  Ducks,  to  cook 152,  153 

Wine  Cakes 295 

Wine  Jelly 338 

Wine   or   Brandy'    Sauce,    Li- 
quid  240,241 

Wine,  Oysters  stewed  with 63 

Wine  Sangaree 337 

Wine  Sauce 240 

Wine  Sauce,  Liquid 240,  241 

Wine,  tomuU 410 


PAGE 

Wine,  to  stew  Oysters  with 63 

Winter  Breakfast,  Bill  of  Fare 

for 400,  401 

Winter  Party,  PiEfreshments 

for 327 

Winter  Squash,  to  cook 178 

Winter,  to  preserve  Vegetables 

for  Use  in  the 170-172 

Winter  Turnips,  to  cook 177 

Winter  Use,  to  preserve  Butter 

for 201 

Woodcocks,  to  carve 450 

vrooDCOCKS,  to  cook ICO 

Yeast,  Bakers',  to  make 277 

Yeast  Cakes,  to  make 277,  273 

Yeast  Dumplings 224 

Yeast  Powder,  Babbit's 452 

Yeast,  to  make  Doughnuts  with- 
out    287 

Yeast  AVaffles 290,  291 

Yellow  Lady-cake 301 

Yellow  Soup 14 

Yellow,  to  color  Fruit  for  pre- 
serving   342,  343 

Yellow  Turnips,  to  boiL — 119, 120 


THE   END. 


P 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


