.^^^ 


4  o 


.^ 


-^o 


'.-^ 


i^     A 


> 


m^.-"  /\.  --W-'  ^■''''"^  -y^'i-'-'--  ,*^ 


^^ 


MRS.    HALE'S 

RECEIPTS  FOR  THE  MILLION: 

CONTAINING 

FOUR  THOUSAND  FIVE  HUNDRED  AND  FORTY-FIVE 


USEFUL,  ORNAMENTAL,  AND  DOMESTIC  ARTS, 


AND  IN  THE  CONDUCT  „0F  LIFE. 

^  BEIKG  A. 

COMPLETE  FAMILY  DIRECTORY,  ^ 


RELATIVE    TO 


Accomplisliinents,  [Economy, 


AmusemeiitSi 

Beauty, 

Birds, 

Building, 

Children, 

Cookery, 

Courtship, 

Dress,  etc. 


Etching, 

Etiquette, 

Flowers, 

Gardening, 

Grecian  Painting, 

Health, 

Home, 

Housekeeping, 


Ladies'  Work, 

Feather  Work, 

Manners, 

Marriage, 

Medicines, 

Needlework, 

Nursing, 

Out-Door  Work, 

Painting, 


Words  of  Washington,  etc. 


cJ^' 


Phrenology,  -^ 
Potichomanie, 

Poultry,  j 

Riding,  j 

Swimming,  \ 
Surgery,  Domestic  I 
Temperance, 

Trees,  etc.  •  i 

Women's  Duties,  | 

i 


BY  MRS.  SARAH  JOSEPHA  HALE. 


|)l)Uair£lpl)ia: 
T.  B.  PETERSON,    NO.    806    CHESTNUT    STREET. 


AH:^' 


V>\ 


Q, 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  tlie  year  1857,  by 

SARAH    JOSEPHA    HALE, 

In  tlio  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States,  in  and  for  the  Eastern 
District  of  Pennsylvania. 


P  R  E  F  A  C    : 


**AU  the  labor  of  man  s  for  his  mouthy^^  Bays  Bolomon.  If  this 
proverb  be  understood,  as  it  was  undoubtedly  meant — that  the  chief 
aim  ani purpose  of  all  human  labor  are  to  make  the  homes  of  mankind 
places  of  enjoyment,  we  see  how  important  the  art  of  household  manage- 
ment becomes. 

While  preparing  my  *'New  Cook  Book,"  I  was  naturally  led  to  ex- 
amine the  subject,  and  the  result  was  a  deep  conviction  of  the  need  of 
another  work  on  domestic  economy,  or  directions  how  to  guide  the 
house.  This  led  me  to  prepare  the  present  treatise,  embodying  rules 
and  receipts,  such  as  never  before  have  been  brought  together  for  the 
help  and  instruction  of  a  household. 

*^ Knowledge  is poicer^^  always;  knowledge  used  for  good  purposes  is 
wisdom.  Knowledge,  like  gold,  must  be  gained  by  personal  effort ;  and 
usually,  in  small  quantities,  and  by  continued  exertions,  both  wisdom  and 
gold  are  accumulated. 

It  has  been  by  washing  the  sands  of  common  experience  and  gathering 
the  small  bits  of  science  and  art  found  here  and  there  on  the  mining 
ground  of  common  knowledge,  that  this  large  work,  containing  the  pure 
gold  of  truth,  applicable  to  all  the  needs  of  commcn  life,  has  been 
made.  A  few  nuggets  will  be  seen,  such  as  the  collected  maxims  of 
Franklin,  and  the  **  Words  of  Washington,"  never  before  placed  within 
the  reach  of  the  popular  mind. 

In  the  economy  and  well-being  of  the  family,  personally  and  in- 
dividually, improvement  should  be  sedulously  kept  in  view.  It  is  not 
enough  that  woman  understands  the  art  of  cookery  and  of  managing 
her  house:  she  must  also  take  care  of  herself;  of  children;  of  all  who 
will  be  dependent  on  her  for  direction,  for  health,  for  happiness. 

Personal  appearance  is  important;  the  art  of  beautifying  a  home  is 
important;  the  knowledge  of  ways  and  means  by  which  the  clothing  of 
a  family  may  be  kept  in  good  order,  with  the  least  expense  of  time  and 
money,  is  important;  some  knowledge  of  plants,  flowers,  gardening, 
and  of  domestic  animals,  is  of  much  benefit,  particularly  to  thos\3  who 

(3) 


4  PBEFAGB. 

lire  in  the  country ;  and  more  important  than  all,  is  a  knowledge  of  the 
best  means  of  preserving  or  restoring  health.  Then  there  is  the  very 
important  matter  of  home  happiness  to  be  kept  in  view.  Amnsements, 
acuom|.!ishments,  elegant  arts,  manners,  modes  of  conduct  in  society; 
all  these  are  necessary  knowledge.  And  to  crown  the  whole,  those  in- 
dispensable rules  and  maxims  of  moral  improvement,  which  are  the 
foundation  of  good  in  the  character  and  life  of  rational,  immortal  beings, 
must  be  made  familiar.  All  this  has  been  attempted  in  **  Receipts  for 
the  Million,"  as  every  person  may  see  by  examining  **  The  Table  of 
Contents"  and  the  *andex." 

The  aim  of  both  my  works  on  domestic  matters  has  been  tojawaken 
the  attention  of  my  own  sex  to  these  subjects,  belonging,  so  unquestion- 
ably, to  woman's  department.  The  home  administration  is  in  her  hands ; 
how  salutary  and  powerful  this  may  be  made  in  its  influence  on  humanity 
is  yet  hardly  imagined,  even  by  the  most  sagacious  and  earnest  advo- 
cates of  woman's  elevation. 

Would  that  those  of  my  sex  who  are  urging  onward,  into  the  industrial 
pursuits,  and  other  professions  appropriate  for  men,  might  turn  their 
attention  to  improvements  in  domestic  economy.  Here  is  an  open  field, 
where  their  heads  and  hearts  as  well  as  hands  may  find  ample  scope  and 
noble  objects.  The  really  great  woman  never  undervalues  her  own 
sphere.  Madame  Roland  excelled  in  her  menage;  Mrs.  Somerville  is 
eminent  for  domestic  qualities ;  Mrs.  Sigourney  is  a  pattern  housekeeper ; 
and  a  multitude  of  other  names  and  examples  may  be  met  with  in  my 
recent  work,*  where  genius  is  found  adorning  home  pursuits. 

There  should  be  Lectures  on  Housekeeping,  and  other  subjects  con- 
nected with  domestic  life,  instituted  in  every  Ladies  Seminary.  This 
would  serve  to  remedy,  in  some  degree,  the  evils  that  now  attend  a  board- 
ing-school education.  The  grand  defect  of  this  is,  that  teachers  too  often 
leave  out  of  sight  the  application  of  learning  to  the  home  pursuits  of 
young  ladies.  So  when  these  return  to  the  parental  roof,  they  give 
themselves  up  to  novel  reading,  as  their  chief  mental  resource. 

A  better  time  is  coming.  _  Women,  capable  of  using  their  faculties  for 
the  improvement  of  society,  will  not  much  longer  remain  in  the  castle  of 
indolence.  Miss  Nightingale  will  find  followers.  And  as  the  active  pur- 
suits of  women  will  naturally  centre  in  the  domestic  circle,  great  advances 
in  the  art  ui  making  home  the  place  of  happiness  must  be  made. 

May  this  book  help  onward  the  good  work. 

S.  J.  H. 
Philadelphia,  October  1st,  1857. 

*  "  A  BiograpMcal  Dictionary  of  BisiinguiBlied  Women.** 


CONTENTS. 


Pbefage ••.... 3 

Contents ^ 5 

PAET   I. 

HOME   AND   ITS   EMPLOYMENTS. 

Hoase  Cleaning  —  Eepairing  Furniture  —:  Cleaning  Stoves  and 
Grates — Mending  Glass,  China,  &c. — Coloring  and  Polishing 
Furniture,  &g, — Removing  unpleasant  Odors — Fires — ^Water  and 
Cisterns — Carriages  and  Harness — Washing — To  remove  Stains 
— To  clean  Silks,  Lace,  &c. — Paste,  Glue,  and  Cement — Dyeing 
— Blacking  for  Boots,  Shoes,  &c. — To  destroy  Insects — The 
Kitchen,  &c. Page  9  to  88 

PART   IL 

HEALTH   AND   BEAUTY. 

Rules  for  the  preservation  of  Health — Simple  Recipes  efficacious 
in  common  diseases  and  slight  injuries — Burns  and  Scalds — 
Fevers — Plasters,  Blisters,  Ointments,  &c. — Poisons  and  Anti- 
dotes—Baths and  Bathing-— The  Toilet,  or  hints  for  the  preser- 
vation of  Beauty — The  Dressing-Table Page  89  to  150 

PART   III. 

HOME  PURStTlTS   AND   DOMESTIC   ARTS.  ' 

Needle-work  —  Explanation  of  Stitches — Preparation  of  House- 
Linen  —  Patchwork  —  Silk  Embroidery  —  Fancy-work  —  Ink  — 
Birds,  Fish,  Flowers,  &c. — House-Plants — Window-Plants — To 

manage  a  Watch Page  151  to  187 

(6) 


6  €©NT12CTS. 

PAET    lY. 

DOMESTIC   ECONOMY,    AND    OTHER   MATTERS   WORTH   KNOWING. 

Teas — Coffee — Yarious  Kecipes  for  making  Essences,  &c. — Pre- 
serving Fruit,  Yegetables^  Herbs,  &c. — Hints  to  Farmers — 
Management  of  a  Horse— Eaising  Poultry — Preservation  from 
Fire — Drowning — Suffocation— Thunder  storms.  .Page  188  to  209 

PAET   Y. 

MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE,    AND   MAID. 

Of  the  Table — On  the  management  of  Infants,  young  Children, 
and  the  Sick — Qualifications  of  a  good  Nurse — Food  for  the  Sick 
and  for  Children-^Drinks  for  the  Sick — Simple  mixtures — Eules 
for  Women  Servants •  Page  210  to  264 

PAET    YT. 

HINTS   ABOUT   AGRICULTURE,    GARDENING,   DOMESTIC   ANIMALS,    &C. 

Manure — Soil — Hay — Grains — Yegetables — To  destroy  Insects— 
Yermin — Weeds — Cows,  Calves,  Sheep,  &c. — Gardening — The 
Orchard — Timber — Building — Bees. Page  265  to  318 

PAET   YII. 

•    MISCELLANEOUS. 

Choice  and  cheap  Cookery — New  Eeceipts — Southern  Dishes — 
Cakes,  Bread,  Pies,  and  Puddings — Home-made  Wines,  Mead, 
Nectar,  &c. — Washing — Hints  on  Diet,  Exercise,  and  Economy- 
Painting — Books — Periodicals  and  Newspapers.  Page  319  to  384 

PAET    YIII. 

ELEGANT  AND  INGENIOUS  ARTS. 

Water-Colors  used  in  Drawing — Directions  for  mixing  Colors — 
Wash  Colors  for  Maps — To  paint  Flowers,  Birds,  Landscapes, 
&c.,  in  Water-Colors — Potichomanie — Grecian  Paiujting — Dia- 
phanic  Feather  Flowers— Sea-Weeds — Botanical  Specimens,  Leaf 
Impressions,  &c. — Transferring  to  Glass,  Wood,  &c. — Emblematic 
Stones — Staining  Stone,  Wood,  &c. — Ornamental  Leather  work 
— Dyeing — Games— Evening  Pastime Page  385  to  431 


CONTENTS.  7 

PAET   IX. 

WORK   IN   DOORS   AND   OUT. 

Household  maxims — Household  receipts  for  many  things — Care 
of  Furs — Wise  economy — Things  to  know — Cleanliness — Pre- 
vention of  accidents — Domestic  hints — More  hints  on  Agriculture 
— Cattle — Gardening — Drying  Herbs— Properties  and  uses  of 
Vegetables — Yegetables  to  cultivate — Fruit  Trees  and  Fruit — 
Yermin  on  Trees Page  431  to  484 

PART   X. 

PERSONAL   MATTERS. 

Dress  of  Ladies — Dress  of  a  Gentleman  —  Manners — Rules  of 
Etiquette — Dinner  Parties — Balls  and  Evening  Parties — Court- 
ship and  Marriage  —  Marriage  Ceremony  —  After  Marriage — > 
Directions  to  a  Wife — Directions  to  a  Husband — Our  House — 
Conversation — Rules  of  Conduct • Page  484  to  533 

PART  XI. 

HEALTH   AND    WEALTH. 

Preservation  of  Health — Baths — Exercise — Terms  expressing  the 
properties  of  medicines — Ointments  and  Cerates — Embrocations 
and  Liniments — Enemas — Poultices — Special  rules  for  the  pre- 
vention of  Cholera— Rules  for  a  Sick  Room — Domestic  Surgery — • 
Bandages — Riches — Temperance — Way  to  Wealth.  P.  533  to  590 

PART  XII. 

THE   FAMILY  AT   HOME. 

A  good  Table  —  Bread,  &c.  —  Meats  —  Yegetables  —  Household 
management — Beverages — Useful  Receipts  for  Family  Practice 
■ — Miscellaneous  Receipts,  Rules,  &c. — Dietetic  maxims — Hints 
to  Mechanics  and  Workmen — Maxims  and  Morals  for  all  Men — 
Home  Industry  for  Young  Ladies — Pets — Swimming — Riding- — 
Home  Counsels — Parlor  Amusements — The  training  of  Daughters, 
&c. — Sentiments  of  Flowers — Signs  of  the  Weather — Air — Its 
effects  on  Life — Importance  of  Laws — Phrenology — Synopsis  of 
American  History  —  Words  of  Washington  —  Useful  Family 
Tables Page  690  to  699 


MES.    HALE'S 

RECEIPTS  FOR  THE  MILLION, 


CONTAINING 


FOUR    THOUSAND   FIVE    HUNDRED   AND  FORTY-FIVE 
RECEIPTS,   FACTS,   ETC. 


PAET  I. 
HOME  AND  ITS  EMPLOYfllENTS. 

House- cleaning  —  Repairing  Furniture  —  Washing  -^  Mending 
Glass^  China,  do. — Dyeing — Blacking  for  Boots^  Shoes,  etc, — 
To  destroy  Insects — The  Kitchen,  dc, 

1.  House  Cleaning. — The  spring  is  more  particularly  the  time 
for  house-cleaning ;  though,  of  course,  it  requires  attention 
monthly. 

Begin  at  the  top  of  the  house ;  first  take  up  the  carpets,  and, 
if  they  require  it,  let  them  be  scoured ;  or  as  carpets  are  some- 
times injured  by  scouring,  they  may  be  well  beaten,  and  if 
necessary,  washed  with  soda  and  water. 

Remove  all  the  furniture  from  the  room,  have  the  chimneys 
swept  where  fires  have  been  kept,  and  clean  and  blacken  the 
grates.  Wrap  old  towels,  (they  should  be  clean),  around  the 
bristles  of  the  broom,  and  sweep  lightly  the  ceiling  and  paper ; 
or,  if  requisite,  the  paper  should  be  cleaned  with  bread,  as  else- 
where directed.  Then  wash  the  paint  with  a  flannel  or  sponge, 
and  soap  and  water,  and,  as  fast  as  one  person  cleans,  another 
should  follow,  and  with  clean  cloths,  wipe  the  paint  perfectly 
dry.  Let  the  windows  be  cleaned,  and  scour  the  floor.  Let 
the  furniture  be  well  rubbed  ;  and  the  floor  being  dry,  and  the 
carpets  laid  down,  the  furniture  may  be  replaced.  The  paper 
should  be  swept  every  three  months. 


2.   To  clean  Bed  rooms, — In  cleaning  bed-room>  infested  with 
bugs,  take  the  bedsteads  asunder,  and  wash  every  part  of  them, 


10  MKS.  bale's  receipts  for  thb  milijon* 

but  especially  the  joints,  with  a  strong  solution  of  corrosive 
sublimate  in  spirits  of  turpentine;  as  the  sublimate  is  a  fatal 
poison,  the  bottle  containing  the  above  solution  should  be  la- 
belled '"Poison;"  it  should  be  used  very  carefully,  and  iaid  on 
with  a  brush  kept  for  the  purpose.  Bugs  can  only  be  removed 
from  walls  by  taking  down  the  paper,  washing  them  with  the 
above  poison,  and  re-papering. 

In  bed-rooms  with  fires,  a  whisk-brush  is  best  to  clear  the 
curtains  and  hangings  from  dust. 

To  remove  grease  or  oil  from  boards,  drop  on  the  spots  spirits 
of  turpentine  before  the  floor  is  scoured. 

The  house-maid  should  be  provided  with  a  box,  with  divisions, 
to  convey  her  various  utensils,  as  brushes,  black  lead,  <k;c.,  from 
room  to  room,  and  a  small  mat  to  kneel  upon  while  cleaning 
the  grate. 


3.  Scouring  Bed-rooms, — This  should  never  be  done  in  winter 
if  it  can  be  avoided,  as  it  is  productive  of  many  coughs  and 
colds.  If  inevitable,  a  dry  day  should  be  selected,  and  the 
windows  and  doors  should  be  left  wide  open  till  dusk.  A  fire, 
ought  always  to  be  made  in  the  room  after  cleaning. 


4.  To  clean  Carpets, — Before  sweeping  a  carpet,  sprinkle  over 
it  a  few  handfuls  of  waste  tea-leaves.  A  stiff  hair-broom  or 
brush  should  be  used,  unless  the  carpet  be  very  dirty,  when  a 
whisk  or  carpet-broom  should  be  used  first,  followed  by  another 
made  of  hair  to  take  off  the  loose  dirt.  The  frequent  use  of  a 
stiff  broom  soon  injures  the  beauty  of  the  best  carpet.  An  or- 
dinary clothes-brush  is  best  adapted  for  superior  carpets. 

When  Brussels  carpets  are  very  much  soiled,  take  them  up 
and  beat  them  perfectly  free  from  dust.  Efkve  the  floor  thor- 
oughly scoured  and  dry,  and  nail  the  carpet  firmly  down  to  it. 
If  still  soiled,  take  a  pailful  of  clean,  cold  water,  and  put  into  it 
about  three  gills  of  ox-gall.  Take  another  pail,  with  clean,  cold 
water  only  ;  now  rub  with  a  soft  scrubbing-brush  some  of  the 
ox-gall  water  on  the  carpet,  which  will  raise  a  lather.  When  a 
convenient-sized  portion  is  done,  wash  the  lather  off  with  a  clean 
linen  cloth  dipped  in  the  clean  water.  Let  this  water  be  changed 
frequently.  When  all  the  lather  has  disappeared,  rub  the  part 
with  a  clean,  dry  cloth.  After  all  is  done,  open  the  window  to 
allow  the  carpet  to  dry.  A  carpet  treated  in  this  manner,  will  be 
greatly  refreshed  in  color,  particularly  the  greens.     Kiddermin* 


^DME   AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  H 

ster  carpets  will  scarcely  bear  the  above  treatment  without  be- 
coming so  soft  as  speedily  to  become  dirty  again.  This  may, 
in  some  measure,  be  prevented  by  brushing  them  over  with  a 
hot,  weak  solution  of  size  in  water,  to  which  a  little  alum  has 
been  added.  Curd  soap  dissolved  in  hot  water,  may  be  used 
instead  of  ox-gall,  but  it  is  more  likely  to  injui-e  the  colors,  if 
produced  by  false  dyes.  Where  there  are  spots  of  grease  in 
the  carpeting,  they  may  be  covered  with  curd  soap  dissolved  in 
boiling  water,  and  rubbed  with  a  brush  until  the  stains  are  re- 
moved, when  they  must  be  cleaned  with  warm  water  as  before. 
The  addition  of  a  little  gall  to  the  soap  renders  it  more  effi- 
cacious. 

The  carpets  should  be  nailed  on  the  full  stretch,  else  they  will 
shrink. 

Fullers'  earth  is  also  used  for  cleaning  carpets  ;  and  alum,  or 
soda,  dissolved  in  water,  for  reviving  the  colors. 

5.  To  clean  Turkey  Carpets, — To  revive  the  color  of  a  Turkey 
carpet,  beat  it  well  with  a  stick  till  the  dust  is  all  got  out ;  then, 
with  a  lemon  or  sorrel  juice,  take  out  the  spots  of  ink,  if  the 
carpet  be  stained  with  any  ;  w^ash  it  in  cold  water,  and  after- 
wards shake  out  all  the  water  from  the  threads  of  the  carpet. 
When  it  is  thoroughly  dry,  rub  it  all  over  with  the  crumb  of  a 
hot  wheaten  loaf;  and,  if  the  weather  is  very  fine,  hang  it  out 
in  the  open  air  a  night  or  two. 


6.  Cheap  Carpeting, — Sew  together  strips  of  the  cheapest 
cotton  cloth,  of  the  size  of  the  room,  and  tack  the  edges  to  the 
floor.  Then  paper  the  cloth,  as  you  would  the  sides  of  a  room, 
with  any  sort  of  room  paper.  After  being  well  dried,  give  it 
two  coats  of  varnish,  and  your  carpet  is  finished.  It  can  be 
washed  like  carpets,  without  injury,  retains  its  gloss,  and,  on 
chambers  or  sleeping  rooms,  where  it  will  not  meet  rough  usage, 
will  last  for  two  years,  as  good  as  new. 


7.  To  heat  a  Carpet, — Hang  the  carpet  upon  a  clothes-lino, 
or  upon  a  stout  line  between  two  trees  ;  it  should  then  be  beaten 
on  the  wrong  side,  by  three  or  four  persons,  each  having  a  pliable 
stick,  with  cloth  tied  strongly  in  a  knob  on  the  ei}d,  in  order  to 
prevent  the  carpet  from  being  torn,  or  the  seams  split,  by  the 
sharp  end  of  the  stick.  When  thoroughly  beaten  on  the  wrong 
side,  the  carpet  should  be  turned,  and  beaten  on  the  right  side. 


12  MRS.  hale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

8.  Floor  or  Oil  Cloths, — Floor-cloths  should  be  chosen  that 
are  painted  on  a  fine  cloth,  which  is  well  covered  with  the  color, 
and  the  patterns  on  which  do  not  rise  much  above  the  ground, 
as  thej  wear  out  first.  The  durability  of  the  cloth  will  depend 
much  on  these  particulars,  but  more  especially  on  the  time  it 
has  been  painted,  and  the  goodness  of  the  colors.  If  they  have 
not  been  allowed  sufficient  time  for  becoming  thoroughly  har- 
dened, a  very  little  use  will  injure  them ;  and,  as  they  are  very 
expensive  articles,  care  in  preserving  them  is  necessary.  It 
answers  to  keep  them  some  time  before  they  are  used,  either 
hang  up  in  a  dry  barn  where  they  will  have  air,  or  laid  down 
in  a  spare  room. 

When  taken  up  for  the  winter,  they  should  be  rolled  round  a 
carpet-roller,  and  observe  not  to  crack  the  paint  by  turning  the 
edges  in  too  suddenly. 

Old  carpets  answer  extremely  well,  painted  and  seasoned 
some  months  before  laid  down.  If  for  passages,  the  width  must 
be  directed  when  they  are  sent  to  the  manufactory,  as  they  are 
cut  before  painting. 

9.  To  clean  Floor  cloths. — Sweep,  then  wipe  them  with  a  flan 
nel ;  and  when  all  dust  and  spots  are  removed,  rub  with  a 
waxed  flannel,  and  then  with  a  dry  plain  one ;  but  use  little 
wax,  and  rub  only  enough  with  the  latter  to  give  a  little  smooth- 
ness, or  it  may  endanger  falling. 

Washing  now  and  then  with  milk,  after  the  above  sweeping 
and  dry-rubbing  them,  gives  as  beautiful  a  look,  and  they  are 
less  slippery. 


10.  Method  of  Cleaning  Paper-hangings.^ — Cut  into  eight 
half  quarters  a  large  loaf,  two  days  old ;  it  must  neither  be 
newer  nor  staler.  With  one  of  these  pieces,  after  having  blown 
off  all  the  dust  from  the  paper  to  be  cleaned,  by  means  of  a 
good  pair  of  bellows,  begin  at  the  top  of  the  room,  holding  the 
crust  in  the  hand,  and  wiping  lightly  downward  with  the  crumb, 
about  half  a  yard  at  each  stroke,  till  the  upper  part  of  the 
hangings  is  completely  cleaned  all  round.  Then  go  round  again, 
with  the  like  sweeping  stroke  downwards,  always  commencing 
each  successive  course  a  little  higher  than  the  upper  stroke  had 
extended,  till  the  bottom  be  finished.  This  operation,  if  care- 
fully  performed,  will  frequently  make  very  old  paper  look  al' 
most  equal  to  new. 


HOME    AND   ITS   EMPLOYMENTS.  13 

Great  caution  must  be  used  not  by  any  means  to  rub  the 
paper  hard,  nor  to  attempt  cleaning  it  the  cross,  or  horizontal 
way.  The  dirty  part  of  the  bread,  too,  must  be  each  time  cut 
away,  and  the  pieces  renewed  as  soon  as  it  may  become  neces- 
sary. 


11.  To  clean  Faint.-^'Never  use  a  cloth,  but  take  off  the  dust 
with  a  little  long-haired  brush,  after  blowing  off  the  loose  parts 
with  the  bellows.  With  care,  paint  will  look  well  for  a  long 
time,  if  guarded  from  the  influence  of  the  sun.  When  soiled, 
dip  a  sponge  or  a  bit  of  flannel  into  soda  and  water,  wash  it  off 
quickly,  and  dry  immediately,  or  the  soda  will  eat  off  the  color. 
Some  persons  use  strong  soap  and  water,  instead. 

When  the  wainscot  requires  scouring,  it  should  be  done  from 
the  top  downwards,  and  the  water  be  prevented  from  running 
on  the  unclean  parts  as  much  as  possible,  or  marks  will  be  made 
which  will  appear  after  the  whole  is  finished.  One  person 
should  dry  with  old  linen,  as  fast  as  the  other  has  scoured  off 
the  dirt,  and  washed  off  the  soap. 


12.  To  give  to  Boards  a  beautiful  appearance, — After  washing 
them  very  nicely  with  soda  and  warm  water  and  a  brush,  w^ash 
them  with  a  very  large  sponge  and  clean  water.  Both  times 
observe  to  leave  no  spot  untouched  ;  and  clean  straight  up  and 
down,  not  crossing  from  board  to  board ;  then  dry  with  clean 
cloths,  rubbed  hard  up  and  down  in  the  same  way. 

The  floors  should  not  be  often  whetted,  but  very  thoroughly 
when  done ;  and  once  a-week  dry-rubbed  with  hot  sand  and  a 
heavy  brush  the  right  way  of  the  boards. 

The  sides  of  stairs  or  passages  on  which  are  carpets  or  floor- 
cloths, should  be  washed  with  sponge  instead  of  linen  or  flannel, 
and  the  edges  will  not  be  soiled.  Different  sponges  should  be 
kept  for  the  above  two  uses;  and  those  and  the  brushes  should 
be  well  washed  when  done  with,  and  kept  in  dry  places. 


To  extract  Oil  from  Boards  or  Stone, — Make  a  strong  ley  of 
pearlashes  and  suft  water,  and  add  as  much  unslaked  lime  as 
it  will  take  up  ;  stir  it  together,  and  then  let  it  settle  a  fe\v 
minutes;  bottle  it,  and  stop  close;  have  ready  some  water  to 
lower  it  as  used,  and  scour  the  part  with  it.  If  the  liquor 
should  lie  long  on  the  boards,  it  will  draw  out  the  color  of  them^ 
therefore  do  it  with  care  and  expedition. 


14.  MRS.    HALE'g    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLlOlf, 

13.  To  scour  Boards, — -Mix  together  one  part  lime,  three 
parts  common  sand,  and  two  parts  soft  soap  ;  lay  a  little  of  this 
on  the  scrubbing-brush,  and  rub  the  board  thoroughly.  After- 
wards rinse  with  clean  water,  and  dry  with  a  clean  coarse  cloth. 
This  will  keep  the  boards  a  good  color :  it  is  also  useful  in  keep- 
ing away  vermin.  For  that  object,  early  in  the  spring,  beds 
should  be  taken  down,  and  furniture  in  general  removed  and 
examined ;  bed-hangings  and  window-curtains,  if  not  washed, 
should  be  shaken  and  brushed  ;  and  the  joints  of  bedsteads,  the 
backs  of  drawers,  and  indeed,  every  part  of  furniture,  except 
polished  mahogany,  should  be  carefully  cleaned  with  the  above 
mixture,  or  with  equal  parts  of  lime  and  soft  soap,  without  any 
sand.  In  old  houses,  where  there  are  holes  in  the  boards,  which 
often  abound  with  vermin,  after  scrubbing  in,  as  far  as  the  brush 
can  reach,  a  thick  plaster  of  the  above  should  be  spread  over 
the  holes,  and  covered  with  paper.  When  these  things  are  time- 
ly attended  to,  and  combined  with  general  cleanliness,  vermin 
may  generally  be  kept  away,  even  in  crowded  cities. 


14.  To  wash  Stone  Stairs  and  Halls, — Wash  them  first  with 
hot  water  and  a  clean  flannel,  and  then  wash  them  over  with 
pipe-clay  mixed  in  water.  When  dry,  rub  them  with  a  coarse 
flannel. 


15.  To  take  Oil  and  Grease  out  of  Floors  and  Stone  Halls,-^ 
Make  a  strong  infusion  of  potash  with  boiling  water ;  add  to 
it  as  much  quick-lime  as  will  make  it  of  the  consistence  of 
thick  cream  ;  let  it  stand  a  night,  then  pour  off*  the  clear  part, 
which  is  to  be  bottled  for  use.  When  wanted,  warm  a  little  of 
it ;  pour  it  upon  the  spots,  and  after  it  has.  been  on  diem  for  a 
few  minutes,  scour  it  off*  with  warm  water  and  soap,  as  it  is 
apt  to  discolor  the  boards  when  left  too  long  on  them.  When 
put  upon  stone,  it  is  best  to  let  it  remain  ail  night ;  and  if  the 
stain  be  a  bad  one,  a  little  powdered  hot  lime  may  be  put  upon 
it  before  the  infusion  is  poured  on. 


16.  To  clean  Marble, — Muriatic  acid,  either  diluted  or  pure, 
as  occasion  may  require,  proves  efficacious.  If  too  strong,  it 
will  deprive  the  marble  of  its  polish,  which  may  be  easily  re- 
stored by  the  use  of  a  piece  of  felt,  with  some  powder  of  putty 
or  tripoli,  with  either,  making  use  of  water. 


HOME   AlfD    ITS     EMPLOYMENTS.  15 

17.  To  clean  Marble,  Another  way, — Mix  \  lb.  of  soft  soap 
with  the  same  of  pounded  whiting,  1  oz.  of  soda,  and  a  piece 
of  stone-blue  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  these  together  for  \  of 
an  hour;  whilst  hot,  rub  it  over  the  marble  with  a  piece  of 
flannel,  and  leave  it  on  for  24  hours ;  then  wash  it  off  with  clean 
water,  and  polish  the  marble  with  a  piece  of  coarse  flannel,  or 
what  is  better,  a  piece  of  an  old  hat. 

18.  To  take  Stains  out  of  Marble, — Mix  unslaked  lime 
in  finest  powder  with  stringent  soap-ley,  pretty  thick,  and  in- 
stantly with  a  painter's  brush  lay  it  on  the  whole  of  the  marble* 
Jn  two  months'  time  wash  it  off"  perfectly  clean ;  then  have 
ready  a  fine  thick  lather  of  soft  soap,  boiled  in  soft  water ;  dip 
a  brush  in  it,  and  scour  the  marble.  This  will,  with  very  good 
rubbing,  give  a  beautiful  polish. 

19.  To  take  Iron-stains  out  of  Marble, — An  equal  quantity 
of  fresh  spirit  of  vitriol  and  lemon-juice  being  mixed  in  a  bottle, 
shake  it  well ;  wet  the  spots,  and  in  a  few  minutes  rub  with 
soft  linen  till  they  disappear. 

20.  Mixture  for  cleaning  Stone  Stairs,  Hall  Pavemerits,  (kc. — 
Boil  together  half  a  pint  each  of  size  and  stone-blue  water, 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  whiting,  and  two  cakes  of  pipe- 
makers'  clay,  in  about  two  quarts  of  water.  Wash  the  stones 
over  with  a  flannel  slightly  wetted  in  this  mixture;  and  when 
dry,  rub  them  with  flannel  and  a  brush.  Some  persons  recom- 
mend beer,  but  water'  is  much  better  for  the  purpose. 

21.  To  Color  or  Paper  the  Walls  of  Rooms, — If  a  ceiling  or 
wall  is  to  be  whitewashed  or  colored,  the  first  thing  to  be  done  is, 
to  wash  off*  the  dirt  and  stains  with  a  brush  and  clean  water,  being 
careful  to  move  the  brush  in  one  direction,  up  and  down,  and 
not  all  sorts  of  ways,  or  the  work  will  look  smeary  afterwards. 
When  dry,  the  ceiling  is  ready  for  whitewash,  which  is  to  be 
made  by  mixing  whiting  and  water  together,  till  quite  smooth, 
and  as  thick  as  cream.  Dissolve  half-an-ounce  of  glue  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  water,  stir  it  into  the  whitewash.  This  size^  as  it  is 
called,  prevents  the  white  or  color  rubbing  off"  the  wall,  and  a 
teacupful  is  enough  for  a  gallon  of  wash.  Stone  color  is  made 
by  mixing  a  little  yellow  ochre  and  blue  black  with  the  size,  and 
then  stirring  it  into  the  whitewash  ;  yellow  or  red  ochre  are  also 


16  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  MILLIOir. 

good  colors,  and,  with  vermilion  or  indigo,  any  shade  may  be 
prepared,  according  to  taste. 

If  paper  is  to  be  used,  the  wall  must  be  w^ashed  with  clean 
water,  as  above  explained ;  and  while  wet,  the  old  color  must 
be  scraped  off  with  a  knife,  or  a  smooth-edged  steel  scraper  of 
any  sort.  It  will  be  best  to  wet  a  yard  or  two  at  a  time,  and 
then  scrape.  Next,  wash  the  wall  all  over  with  size,  made  with 
an  ounce  of  gl-ue  to  a  gallon  of  water;  and  when  this  is  dry, 
the  wall  is  ready  for  the  paper.  This  must  be  cut  into  lengths 
according  to  the  different  parts  of  the  room;  one  edge  of  the 
plain  strip  must  be  cut  off  close  to  the  pattern,  and  the  other 
left  half  an  inch  wide.  If  the  paper  is  thick,  it  should  lie  a 
minute  or  two  after  it  is  pasted ;  but  if  thin,  the  sooner  it  is  on 
the  wall,  the  better.  Begin  by  placing  the  close-cut  edge  of  the 
paper  at  one  side  of  the  window,  stick  it  securely  to  meet  the 
ceiling,  let  it  hang  straight,  and  then  press  it  down  lightly  and 
regularly  with  a  clean  cloth.  The  close-cut  edge  of  the  next 
length  will  cover  the  half-inch  left  on  the  first  one,  and  so  make 
a  neat  join  ;  and  in  this  way  you  may  go  all  round  the  room, 
and  finish  at  the  other  side  of  the  window. 


22.  Damp  Walls, — Damp  may  be  prevented  from  exuding 
flrom  walls  by  first  drying  them  thoroughly,  and  then  covering 
them  with  the  follow^ing  mixture  :  In  a  quart  of  linseed  oil,  boil 
three  ounces  oi  litharge,  and  four  ounces  of  resin.  Apply  this 
in  successive  coats,  and  it  will  form  a  hard  varnish  on  the  wall 
after  the  fifth  coating. 


23.  To  clean  Moreen  Curtains, — Having  removed  the  dust 
and  clinging  dirt  as  much  as  possible  with  a  brush,  lay  the  cur- 
tain on  a  large  table,  sprinkle  on  it  a  littJe  bran,  and  rub  it 
round  with  a  piece  of  clean  flannel ;  when  the  bran  and  flannel 
become  soiled,  use  fresh,  and  continue  rubbing  till  the  moreen 
looks  bright,  which  it  will  do  in  a  short  time. 


24.  To  clean  Calico  Furniture, — Shake  off  the  loose  dust; 
then  lightly  brush  with  a  smajl,  long-haii^ed  furniture-brush; 
after  which  wipe  it  closely  with  clean  flannels,  and  rub  it  with 
dry  bread. 

If  properly  done,  the  curtains  will  look  nearly  as  w^ell  as  at 
first  ;  and,  if  the  color  be  not  light,  they  will  not  require  wash- 
ing for  years. 


nOMB   AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS,  17 

Fold  in  large  parcels,  and  put  carefully  by. 

While  the  furniture  remains  up,  it  should  be  preserved  from 
the  sun  and  air  as  much  as  possible,  which  injure  delicate  colors; 
and  the  dust  may  be  blown  off  with  bellows. 

By  the  above  mode  curtains  may  be  kept  clean,  even  to  use 
with  the  linings  newly  dipped. 


25.  Making  Beds, — Close  or  press  bedsteads  are  ill  adapted 
for  young  persons  or  invalids  ;  when  their  use  is  unavoidable, 
the  bed-clothes  should  be  displaced  every  morning,  and  left  for 
a  short  time  before  they  are  shut  up. 

The  windows  of  bed-rooms  should  be  kept  open  for  some 
hours  every  day,  to  carry  off  the  effluvia  from  the  bed-clothes ; 
the  bed  should  also  be  shaken  up,  and  the  clothes  spread  about, 
in  which  state  the  longer  they  remain,  the  better. 

The  bed  being  made,  the  clothes  should  not  be  tucked  in  at 
the  sides  or  foot,  as  that  prevents  any  further  purification  taking 
place,  Ly  the  cool  air  passing  through  them. 

A  warming-pan  should  be  chosen  without  holes  in  the  lid. 
About  a  yard  of  moderately-sized  iron  chain,  made  red  hot  and 
put  into  the  pan,  is  a  simple  and  excellent  substitute  for  coals. 


26.  To  Detect  Dampness  in  Beds, — Let  the  bed  be  well 
warmed,  and  immediately  after  the  warming-pan  is  taken  out, 
introduce  between  the  sheets,  in  an  inverted  position,  a  clean 
glass  goblet :  after  it  has  remained  in  that  situation  a  few  min- 
utes, examine  it ;  if  found  dry  and  not  tarnished  with  steam, 
the  bed  is  perfectly  safe  ;  and  vice  versa.  In  the  latter  case,  it 
will  be  best  to  sleep  between  the  blankets. 


27.  Beech-tree  Leaves. — The  leaves  of  the  beech- tree,  col- 
lectod  at  autumn,  in  dry  weather,  form  an  admirable  article  for 
filling  beds  for  the  poor.  The  smell  is  grateful  and  wholesome  ; 
they  do  not  harbor  vermin,  are  very  elastic,  and  may  be  replen- 
ished annually  without  cost. 


28.  Useful  Hints  relative  to  Bed-clothes^  Mattresses^  Cushions^ 
itc. — The  purity  of  feathers  and  wool  employed  for  mattresses 
and  cushions  ought  to  be  considered  as  a  first  object  of  salu- 
brity. Animal  emanations  may,  under  many  circumstances,  be 
prejudicial  to  the  health  ;  but  the  danger  is  still  greater,  when 
2 


18  MRS.    SALENS    RECEIPTS    FOR    THB    SfILLI02f. 

the  wool  is  impregnated  with  sweat  nf  persons  who  have  expe- 
rienced putrid  and  contagious  diseases.  Bed-clothes,  and  the 
wool  of  mattresses,  therefore,  cannot  be  too  often  beat,  carded, 
cleaned,  and  washed.  This  is  a  caution  which  cannot  bB  too 
often  recommended. 

It  would  be  very  easy  in  most  situations,  and  very  effectual, 
to  fumigate  them  with  muriatic  gas. 


29.  To  clean  Feathers  of  their  Oil, — In  each  gallon  of  clean 
water  mix  a  pound  of  quick-lime,  and  when  the  undissolved  lime 
settles  in  fine  powder,  pour  off  the  lime-water  for  use.  Having 
put  the  feathers  to  be  cleaned  into  a  tub,  pour  the  clear  lime- 
water  upon  them,  and  stir  them  well  about ;  let  them  remain 
three  or  four  days  in  the  lime-water,  which  should  then  be  sepa- 
rated from  them  by  laying  them  in  a  sieve.  The  feathers  should 
next  be  washed  in  clean  water,  and  dried  upon  fine  nets ;  they 
will  then  only  require  beating,  to  get  rid  of  the  dust,  previous 
to  use. 

To  restore  the -spring  of  damaged  feathers,  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  dip  them  in  warm  water  for  a  short  time. 


30.  To  purify  Wool  infested  with  Insects, — The  process  of 
purification  consists  in  putting  into  three  pints  of  boiling  water 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  alum,  and  as  much  cream  of  tartar,  which 
are  diluted  in  twenty- three  pints  more  of  cold  water.  The  wool 
is  then  left  immersed  in  this  liquor  during  some  days,  after 
which  it  is  washed  and  dried.  After  this  operation,  it  will  no 
longer  be  subject  to  be  attacked  by  insects. 

31.  To  clean  Looking -glasses. — Keep  for  this  purpose  a  piece 
of  sponge,  a  cloth,  and  a  silk  handkerchief,  S\\  entirely  free  from 
dirt,  as  the  least  grit  will  scratch  the  fine  surface  of  the  glass. 
First,  sponge  it  with  a  little  spirit  of  wine,  or  gin  and  water, 
so  as  to  clean  oflf  all  spots  ;  then,  dust  over  it  powder-blue,  tied 
in  muslin,  rub  it  lightly  and  quickly  off  with  the  cloth,  and  fin- 
ish by  rubbing  it  with  the  silk  handkerchief.  Be  carefal  not  to 
rub  the  edges  of  the  fiames. 


32.  To  preserve  Gilding^  and  clean  it. — It  is  impossible  to  pre- 
vent flies  from  starning  the  gilding  without  covering  it;  before 
which,  blow  off  the  light  dust,  and  pass  a  feather  or  clean  brush 


HOME   AND   rrs    EMPLOYMENTS.  -    19 

over  it,  but  never  touch  it  with  water;  then,  with  strips  of  pa- 
per, or  rather  gauze,  cover  the  frames  of  your  glasses,  and  do 
not  remove  till  the  flies  are  gone. 

Linen  takes  off  the  gilding  and  deadens  its  brightness;  it- 
should,  therefore,  never  be  used  for  wiping  it. 

A  good  preventive  against  flies  is,  to  boil  three  or  four  leeks 
in  a  pint  of  water,  and  then  with  a  gilding-brush  wash  over  the 
glasses  and  frames  with  the  liquid,  and  the  flies  will  not  go  near 
the  articles  so  washed.  This  will  not  injure  the  frames  in  ^he 
least.  Stains  or  spots  may  be  removed  by  gently  wiping  them 
with  cotton  dipped  in  sweet  oil. 


33.  To  retouch  the  ruhhed  parts  of  a  Picture-frame. — give  the 
wood  a  coating  of  size  made  by  dissolving  isinglass  with  a  weak 
spirit.  When  nearly  dry,  lay  on  some  gold  leaf;  and  polish, 
when  quite  dry,  with  an  agate  burnisher,  or  any  similar 
substance. 


34.  Furniture  Oil, — Put  into  a  jar  one  -pint  of  linseed  oil 
into  w^hich  stir  one  ounce  of  powdered  rose  pink,  and  one  ounce 
of  alkanet  root,  beaten  in  a  mortar :  set  the  jar  in  a  warm  place 
for  a  few  days,  when  the  oil  will  be  deeply  colored,  and  the 
substances  having  settled,  the  oil  may  be  poured  ofl*,  and  will 
be  excellent  for  darkening  new  mahogany. 

35.  Furniture  Paste, — Put  turpentine  into  a  glazed  pot,  and 
scrape  beeswax  into  it,  which  stir  about  till  the  liquid  is  of  the 
thickness  of  cream  ;  it  will  then  be  good  for  months,  if  kept 
clean ;  and  furniture  cleaned  with  the  liquid  thus  made,  will  not 
receive  stains  so  readily  as  when  the  turpentine  and  wax  are 
heated  over  the  fire ;  which  plan  is,  besides,  very  dangerous  ; 
but  if  the  heating  be  preferred,  place  the  vessel  containing  the 
wax  and  turpentine  in  another  containing  boiling  water. 

36.  French  Polish  for  Furniture. — ^To  one  pint  of  spirits  of 
wine,  add  half  an  ounce  of  gum-shellac,  half  an  ounce  of  gum- 
lac,  a  quarXer  of  an  ounce  of  gum-sandarac ;  place  the  whole 
in  a  gentle  heat,  frequently  shaking  it,  till  the  gums  are  dissolved, 
when  it  is  fit  for  use.  Make  a  roller  of  list,  put  a  little  of  the 
polish  upon  it,  and  cover  that  with  a  piece  of  soft  linen  rag, 
which  must  be  lightly  touched  with  cold-drawn  linseed  oil. 
Rub  the  wood  in  a  circular  direction,  not  covering  too  large  a 


20   -  MES.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

space  at  a  time,  till  the  pores  of  the  wood  are  sufficiently  filled  . 
up.  After  this,  rub  in  the  same  manner  spirits  of  wine,  with 
a  small  portion  of  the  polish  added  to  it ;  and  a  most  brilliant 
polish  will  be  produced.  If  the  article  should  have  been  pol- 
.  ished  with  wax,  it  will  be  necessary  to  clean  it  off  with  fine 
glass  paper. 

87.  Another  Polish  and  Varnish, — The  only  way  to  preserve 
polish  011^  rosewood  French-polished  furniture,  is  to  keep  it  con- 
tinually rubbed  with  a  chamois  leather  and  a  silk  handkerchief. 
We  have  no  better  remedy  to  offer  for  scratches  on  the  wood 
than  filling  them  in  with  a  little  oil  covered  with  alkanet-root. 
The  following  varnish  for  furniture  not  French-polished,  has 
been  highly  recommended  :  Melt  one  part  of  virgin  white  wax 
with  eight  parts  of  petroleum  ;  lay  a  slight  coat  of  this  mixture 
on  the  wood  with  a  fine  brush  while  warm  ;  the  oil  will  then 
evaporate,  and  leave  a  thin  coat  of  wax,  which  should  after- 
wards be  polished  with  a  coarse  woolen  cloth. 

38.  Polish  for  Dining  Tables — Is  to  rub  them  with  cold- 
drawn  Unseed  oil,  thus :  Put  a  little  in  the  middle  of  a  table, 
and  then  with  a  piece  of  linen  (never  use  woolen)  cloth  rub  it 
well  all  over  the  table ;  then  take  another  piece  of  linen  and 
rub  it  for  ten  minutes,  then  rub  it  till  quite  dry  with  another 
cloth.  This  must  be  done  every  day  for  some  months,  when 
you  will  find  your  mahogany  acquire  a  permanent  and  beauti- 
ful lustre,  unattainable  by  any  other  means,  and  equal  to  the 
finest  French  polish ;  and  if  the  table  is  covered  with  the  table- 
cloth only,  the  hottest  dishes  will  make  no  impression  upon  it; 
and  when  once  this  polish  is  produced,  it  will  only  require  dry 
rubbing  with  a  linen  cloth  for  about  ten  minutes,  twice  in  a 
week,  to  preserve  it  in  the  highest  perfection  7  which  never  fails 
to  please  your  employers  ;  and  remember,  that  to  please  others 
is  always  the  surest  way  to  profit  yourself. 

If  the  appearance  must  be  more  immediately  produced,  take 
some  Furniture  Paste. 


39.  Varnished  Furniture, — This  may  be  finished  off  so  as  to 
look  equal  to  the  best  French  polished  wood,  in  the  following 
manner,  which  is  also  suitable  to  other  varnished  surfaces. 
Take  two  ounces  of  Tripoli  powder,  put  it  into  an  earthen  pot, 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  then  take  a  piece  of  white 


HOME    AND    ITS   EMPLOYMENTS.  21 

flannel,  lay  it  over  a  piece  of  cork  or  rubber,  and  proceed  to  polish 
the  varnish,  always  wetting  it  with  the  Tripoli  and  water.  It 
will  be  known  when  the  process  is  finished  by  wiping  a  part  of 
the  work  with  a  sponge,  and  observing  whether  there  is  a  fair, 
even  gloss.  When  this  is  the  case,  take  a  bit  of  mutton  suet 
and  fine  flour,  and  clean  the  work. 

Frames  of  varnished  wood  may  be  cleaned  to  look  new,  by 
careful  washing  with  a  sponge  and  soap  and  water,  but  nothing 
stronger  should  be  used. 

40.  Varnish  for  Violins^  dc. — Take  a  gallon  of  rectified  spir- 
its of  wine,  twelve  ounces  of  mastic,  and  a  pint  of  turpentine 
varnish  ;  put  them  all  together  in  a  tin  can,  and  keep  it  in  a  very 
w^arm  place,  shaking  it  occasionally  till  it  is  perfectly  dissolved  ; 
then  strain  it,  and  it  is  fit  for  use.  If  you  find  it  necessary,  you 
may  dilute  it  with  turpentine  varnish.  This  varnish  is  also 
very  useful  for  furniture  of  plum-tree,  mahogany,  or  rosewood. 

41.  White  Varnish. — The  white  varnish  used  for  toys  is  made 
of  sandarac,  eight  ounces ;  mastic,  tw  o  ounces  ;  Canada  balsam, 
four  ounces;  alcohol,  one  quart.  This  is  white,  drying,  and 
capable  of  being  polished  when  hard.  Another  varnish  for  ob- 
jects of  the  toilet,  such  as  woi-k-boxes,  card-cases,  &c.,  is  made 
of  gum  sandarac,  six  ounces;  elemi  (genuine),  four  ounces: 
anime,  one  ounce  ;  camphor,  half  an  ouncp  ;  rectified  spirit,  one 
quart.  Melt  slowly.  These  ingredients  may,  of  course,  be  les- 
sened in  proportion. 

42.  To  remove  Ink-spots  from  Mahogany. — Drop  on  the  spots 
a  very  small  quantity  of  spirits  of  salt;  rub  it  with  a  feather 
or  piece  of  flannel,  taking  care  not  to  let  the  spirit  reach  the  fin- 
gers or  clothes ;  in  four  or  five  minutes,  wash  it  off  with  water. 

Or,  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  burnt  alum,  powdered,  with  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  to 
be  used  by  wetting  a  rag  with  it,  and  rubbing  it  on  the  ink-spots. 

Or,  crumple  a  piece  of  blotting-paper,  so  as  to  make  it 
firm,  wet  it,  and  with  it  rub  the  ink-spot  firmly  and  briskly, 
when  it  will  disappear  ;  and  the  white  mark  from  the  operation 
may  be  immediately  removed  by  rubbing  it  with  a  cloth. 

43.  Or  : — Dilute  ^  a  teaspoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol  with  a  large 
spoonful  of  water,  and  touch  the  part  with  a  feather;  watch  it, 
for  if  it  stays  too  long,  it  will  leave  a  white  mark.  It  Ts,  there- 
fore, better  to  rub  it  quickly,  and  repeat  if  not  quite  removed. 


22  MRS.    bale's    EECEIPTS    FOK    the    MILLION' 

44.  To  clean  Chairs. — Scrape  down  one  or  two  ounces  of 
beeswax,  put  it  into  a  jar,  and  pour  as  much  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine over  it  as  will  cover  it :  let  it  stand  till  dissolved.  Put  a 
little  upon  a  flannel  or  bit  of  green  baize,  rub  it  upon  the  chairs, 
and  polish  them  with  a  brush.  A  very  small  portion  of  finely- 
powdered  white  rosin  may  be  mixed  with  the  turpentine  and 
wax. 


45.  To  clean  and  restore  the  Elasticity  of  Cane  Chair  Bot- 
toms, Couches,  dc, — Turn  up  the  chair  bottom,  &;c.,  and  with 
hot  water  and  a  sponge  wash  the  cane  work  well,  so  that  it  may 
be  well  soaked;  should  it  be  dirty,  you  must  add  soap  ;  let  it 
dry  in  the  air,  and  you  will  find  it  as  tight  and  firm  as  when 
new,  providing  the  cane  is  not  broken, 

46.  Blacking  for  Leather  Seats^  dtc, — Beat  well  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one ;  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  gin  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  thicken  it  with  ivory  black,  add  it  to  the 
eggs,  and  use  as  common  blacking  ;  the  seats  or  ciishions  being 
left  a  day  or  two  to  harden. 

47. — To  prevent  Hinges  Creaking. — Rub  them  with  soft  soap, 
or  a  feather  dipped  in  oil. 


48.  Swallows^  I^^ests. — To  prevent  swallows  building  under 
eaves,  or  in  window  corners,  rub  the  places  with  oil  or  soft  soap. 

49.  To  clean  Polished  Grates  and  Irons. — Make  into  a  paste 
with  cold  water,  four  pounds  of  putty-powder  and  one  of  finely- 
powdered  whiting ;  rub  off  carefully  the  spots  from  the  irons, 
and  with  a  dry  clean  duster  rub  the  irons  wiih  the  mixture  al- 
w^ays  in  the  same  direction  till  bright  and  clear.  Plain  dry 
whiting  will  keep  it  highly  polished  if  w^ell  attended  to  every 
day.     The  putty  mixture  should  be  used  only  to  remove  spots. 

50.  To  clean  the  Back  of  the  Grate,  the  inner  Hearth,  and  the 
fronts  of  Cast-Iron  Stoves. — Mix  black  lead  and  whites  of  eggs 

well  beaten  together;  dip  a  painter's  brush,  and  wet  all  over, 
then  rub  it  bright  with  a  hard  brush. 

51.  To  remove  the  Black  from  the  Bright  Bars  of  Polished 
Stoves  in  a  few  minutes. — Rub  them  w^ell  with  some  of  the  fol- 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  28 

lowing  mixture  on  a  bit  of  broadcloth  ;  when  the  dirt  is  removed^ 
wipe  them  clean,  and  polish  with  glass  (not  sand)  paper. 

52.  For  Mixture  : — Boil  slowly  one  pound  of  soft  soap  in  two 
quarts  of  w^ater  to  one  quart.  Of  this  jelly  take  three  or  four 
spoonfuls,  and  mix  to  a  consistence  with  emery. 

53.  To  dean  Bright  Stoves, — There  are  many  ways  of  clean- 
ing a  stove,  but  if  the  ornamental  parts  be  neglected,  rust  will 
soon  disfigure  the  surface,  and  lead  to  incalculable  trouble. 
Emery  dust,  moistened  into  a  paste  with  sweet  oil,  should  be 
kept  in  a  little  jar ;  this  should  be  applied  on  a  bung,  up  and 
down,  never  crossways,  until  marks  or  burns  disappear.  A 
dry  leather  should  then  remove  the  oil,  and  a  polish  should  af- 
terwards be  given  with  putty  powder  on  a  dry  clean  leather. 

54.  Another  way  to  dean  Grates -The  best  mixture  for  cleaning 
bright  stove-grates  is  rotten-stone  and  sweet  oil  :  they  require 
constant  attention,  for,  if  rust  be  once  suffered  to  make  its  ap- 
pearance, it  will  become  a  toil  to  efface  it.  Polished  fire-irons, 
if  not  allowed  to  rust  by  neglect,  will  require  merely  rubbing 
with  leather  ;  and  the  higher  the  polish,  the  less  likely  they  are 
to  rust.  If  the  room  be  shut  up  for  a  time,  and  the  grates  be 
not  used,  to  prevent  their  rusting,  cover  them  with  lime  and 
sweet  oil. 

Bright  fenders  are  cleaned  as  stoves;  cast-iron  fenders  require 
black  lead ;  they  should  not,  however,  be  cleaned  in  the  sitting- 
room,  as  the  powdered  lead  may  fly  about  and  injure  carpets 
and  furniture.  A  good  plan  is  to  send  cast-iron  fenders  to  be 
bronzed  or  lackered  by  the  iron-monger ;  they  will  then  only 
require  brushing,  to  free  the  dust  from  the  ornamental  work. 
The  bright  top  of  a  fender  should  be  cleaned  with* fine  emery- 
paper. 


55.  To  prevent  Fire-Irons  becoming  Rusty, — Rub  them  with 
sweet  oil,  arid  dust  over  them  unslaked  lime.  If  they  be  rusty, 
oil  them  for  two  or  three  days,  then  wipe  them  dry,  and  polish 
with  flour  emery,  powdered  pumice-stone,  or  lime.  A  mixture 
of  tripoli  with  half  its  quantity  of  sulphur,  will  also  remove 
rust ;  as  will  emery  mixed  with  soft  soap,  boiled  to  a  jelly.  The 
last  mixture  is  also  used  for  removing  the  fire-marks  from  bright 
bars. 


24  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

56.  To  Col(yr  the  Backs  of  Chimneys  with  Lead  Ore, — Clean 
them  with  a  very  strong  brush,  and  carefully  rub  off  the  dust  and 
rus^t ;  pound  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lead  ore  into  a  fine 
powder,  and  put  it  into  a  vessel  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
then  apply  it  to  the  back  of  the  chimney  with  a  brush.  When 
it  is  made  black  with  this  liquid,  take  a  dry  brush,  dip  it  in  the 
same  powder  without  vinegar ;  then  dry  and  rub  it  with  this 
brush,  till  it  becomes  as  shining  as  glass. 


57.  To  blacken  the  fronts  of  Stone  Chimney-pieces , — Mix  oil- 
varnish  with  lamp-black,  and  a  little  spirit  of  turpentine  to  thin 
it  to  the  consistence  of  paint.  Wash  the  stone  with  soap  and 
water  very  clean  ;  then  sponge  it  with  clear  water ;  and  when 
perfectly  dry,  brush  it  over  twice  with  this  color,  letting  it  dry 
between  the  times.  It  looks  extremely  well.  The  lamp-black 
must  be  sifted  first. 


58.  Composition  that  will  effectually  prevent  Iron,  Steel,  dc, 
from  rusting, — This  method  consists  in  mixing,  with  fat  oil  var- 
nish, four-fifths  of  well  rectified  spirit  of  turpentine.  The  var- 
nish is  to  be  applied  by  means  of  a  sponge ;  and  articles  varnished 
in  this  manlier  will  retain  their  metallic  brilliancy,  and  never 
contract  any  spots  of  rust.  It  may  be  applied  to  copper,  and 
to  the  preservation  of  philosophical  instruments;  which,  by 
being  brought  into  contact  with  water,  are  liable  to  lose  their 
splendor,  and  become  tarnished. 


59.  To  keep  Arms  and  polished  Metal  from  Rust, — Dissolve 
once  ounce  of  camphor  in  two  pounds  of  hog's  lard,  observing 
*o  take  offifche  scum ;  then  mix  as  much  black  lead  as  will  give 
the  mixture  an  iron  color. .  Fire-arms,  &c.,  "rubbed  over  with 
this  mixture,  and  left  with  it  on  twenty-four  hours,  and  then 
dried  with  a  linen-  cloth,  will  keep  clean  for  many  months. 


60.  To  preserve  Irons  from  Rust, — Melt  fresh  mutton-suet, 
and  smear  over  the  iron  with  it  while  hot ;  then  dust  it  well  with 
unslaked  lime  pounded  and  tied  up  in  a  muslin.  Irons  so  pre- 
pared will  keep  many  months.  Use  no  oil  for  them  but  salad- 
oil,  there  being  water  in  all  other. 

Fire-irons  should  be  wrapped  in  baize,  and  kept  in  a  dry 
place,  when  not  used. 


HOME   AND    ITS     EMPLOYMENTS.  25 

61,  To  prevent  polished  Hardware  and  Cutlery  from  talcing 
Rust. — Case-knives,  snuffers,  watch-chains,  and  other  small  ar- 
ticles made  of  steel,  may  be  preserved  from  #ust,  by  being 
carefully  wiped  after  use,  and  then  wrapped  in  coarse  brown 
paper,  the  virtue  of  which  is  such,  that  all  hardware  goods  from 
Sheffield,  Birmingham,  &;c.,  are  always  wrapped  in  the  same. 


62.  Another  way. — Beat  into  three  pounds  of  fresh  hog's-lard 
two  drachms  of  camphor  till  it  is  dissolved;  then  add  as  much 
black  lead  as  will  make  it  the  color  of  broken  steel.  Dip  a  rag 
in  it,  and  rub  it  thick  on  the  stove,  (fee,  and  the  steel  will  never 
rust,  even  if  wet.  When  it  is  to  be  used,  the  grease  must  be 
washed  off  with  hot  water,  and  the  steel  be  dried  before  polishing. 


63.  To  take  Rust  out  of  Steel, — Cover  the  steel  with  -sweet 
oil  well  rubbed  on  it,  and  in  forty-eight  hours  use  unslaked  lime 
finely  powdered,  to  rub  until  all  the  rust  disappears. 

64.  To  clean  Plate. — See  that  the  plate  is  quite  ire^  from 
grease,  by  having  been  washed,  if  necessary,  in  warm  soap  and 
water.  Then  mix  some  whiting  with  water,  and  with  a  sponge 
rub  it  well  on  the  plate,  which  will  take  the  tarnish  off,  making 
use  of  a  brush  not  too  hard,  to  clean  the  intricate  parts.  Next, 
take  some  rouge-powder,  mix*  it  with  water  to  about  the  thick- 
ness of  cream,  and  with  a  small  piece  of  leather  (which  should 
be  kept  for  that  purpose  only)  apply  the  rouge.  This,  with  a 
little  rubbing,  will  produce  a  most  beautiful  polish.  This  is  the 
actual  manner  in  which  silversmiths  clean  their  plate. 


65.  The  comnion  method  of  cleaning  Plate. — First  wSsh  it  well 
whh  soap  and  warm  water ;  when  perfectly  dry,  mix  together  a 
little  whiting  and  sweet  oil,  so  as  to  make  a  soft  paste;  then 
take  a  piece  of  flannel,  rub  it  on  the  plate,  then  with  a  leather, 
and  plenty  of  dry  whiting,  rub  it  clean  off  again ;  then  with  a 
clean  leather  and  a  brush,  finish  it. 


66.  An  easy  way  to  clean  Plate. — A  flannel  and  soap,  and  soft 
water,  with  proper  rubbing,  will  clean  plate  nicely.  It  should 
be  wiped  dry  with  a  good-sized  piece  of  soft  leather. 


67.  Plate  Powder. — In  most  of  the  articles  sold  as  plate  pow- 


26  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  ths  million 

ders,  under  a  variety  of  names,  there  is  an  injurious  mixture  of 
quicksilver,  which  is  said  sometimes  so  far  to  penetrate  and  ren- 
der silver  brittle,  that  it  will  even  break  with  a  fall.  Whiting, 
properly  purified  from  sand,  applied  wet,  and  rubbed  till  dry,  is 
one  of  the  easiest,  safest,  and  certainly  the  cheapest  of  all  plate 
powders :  jewelers  and  silversmiths,  for  small  articles,  seldom 
use  any  thing  else.  If,  however,  the  plate  be  boiled  a  little  in 
water,  with  an  ounce  of  calcined  hartshorn  in  powder  to  about 
three  pints  of  water,  then  drained  over  the  vessel  in  which  it 
was  boiled,  and  afterwards  dried  by  the  fire,  while  some  soft  linen 
rags  are  boiled  in  the  liquid  till  they  have  wholly  imbibed  it ; 
these  rags  will,  when  dry,  not  only  assist  to  clean  the  plate, 
which  must  afterwards  be  rubbed  bright  with  leather,  but  also 
serve  admirably  for  cleaning  brass  locks,  finger-plates,  &c. 


68.  To  cleanse  Gold, — Wash  the  article  in  warm  suds  made 
of  delicate  soap  and  water,  with  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  sal- vola- 
tile. (The  sal-volatile  will  render  the  metal  brittle.  This  hint 
may  be  used  or  left  at  pleasure.) 


69.  To  clean  Brass  and  Co^jper. — Rub  it  over  slightly  with  a 
bit  of  flannel  dipped  in  sweet  oil  ;  next,  rub  it  hard  with  another 
bit  dipped  in  finely-powdered  rotten  stone  ;  then  make  it  clean 
with  a  soft  linen  cloth,  and  finish  by  polishing  it  with  a  plate 
leather. 


70.  Ohs, — The  inside  of  brass  or  copper  vessels  should  be 
scoured  with  fullers'  earth  and  water,  and  set  to  dry,  else  the 
tinning  will  be  injured. 


71.  Another  way  to  clean  Brass  and  Copper, — Put  one  penny- 
worth of  powdered  rotten  stone  into  a  dry,  clean  quart  bottle ; 
nearly  fill  it  up  with  cold  soft  water;  shake  it  well,  and  add  one 
penny-worth  of  vitriol.  Rub  it  on  with  a  rag,  and  dry  it  with 
a  clean,  soft  cloth,  and  then  polish  it  with  a  plate-leather.  This 
mixture  will  keep  for  a  long  time,  and  becomes  better  the  longer 
it  is  kept.  But  the  first  method  gives  the  most  lasting  polish, 
as  well  as  the  finest  color. 


72.  To  clean  Brass   Ornaments, — Wash  the  ornament  in  a 
strong  solution  of  boiled   roche-alum,  in   the  proportion  of  nn 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  27 

ounce  to  a  pint  of  water.     When  dry,  rub  them  with  fine  trip- 
oil  powder. 

73.  Polishing  Paste  for  Britannia  metal,  tins,  brasses,  and 
coppers^  is  composed  of  rotten-stone,  soft  soap,  and  oil  of  tur- 
pentine. 

The  stone  must  be  powdered  and  sifted  through  a  muslin  or 
hair  sieve  :  mix  with  it  as  much  soft  soap  as  will  bring  it  to 
the  stiffness  of  putty  :  to  about  half  a-pound  of  this,  add  two  ozs. 
of  oil  of  turpentine.  It  may  be  made  up  in  balls,  or  put  in  gal- 
lipots ;  it  will  soon  become  hard,  and  will  keep  any  length  of 
time.  Method  of  using  : — The  articles  to  be  polished  should  be 
perfectly  freed  from  grease  and  dirt.  Moisten  a  little  of  the 
paste  with  water,  smear  it  over  the  metal,  then  rub  briskly 
with  dry  rag  or  wash-leather,  and  it  will  soon  bear  a  beautiful 
polish. 


74.  To  clean  Britannia  metal. — Rub  the  article  with  a  piece 
of  flannel  moistened  with  sweet  oil ;  then  apply  a  little  pounded 
rotten-stone  or  polishing  paste  with  the  finger,  till  the  polish  is 
produced;  then  wash  the  article  with  soap  and  hot  water,  and. 
when  dry,  rub  with. soft  wash-leather,  and  a  little  fine  whiting. 


75.  To  clean  Pewter, — Scour  it  with  fine  white  sand,  and 
strong  ley  made  with  wood-ashes,  soda,  or  pearl-ash  ;  then  rinse 
the  pewter  in  clean  water,  and  set  it  to  drain.  The  best  method, 
however,  is  to  use  the  oil  of  tartar  and  sand. 


76.  To  clean  Tin  Covers, — ^Get  the  finest  whiting  ;  mix  a  little 
of  it  powdered  with  the  least  drop  of  sweet  oil,  rub  the  covers 
well  with  it,  and  wipe  thera  clean  ;  then  dust  over  them  some 
dry  whiting  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  rub  bright  with  dry  leather. 
This  last  is  to  prevent  rust,  which  the  cook  must  guard  against 
by  wiping  them  dry,  and  putting  them  by  the  fire  when  they 
come  from  the  parlor ;  for  if  but  once  hung  up  damp,  the  inside 
will  rust. 


77.  Safe  Method  of  cleaning  Tea-urns, — In  an  earthen  gallipot 
put  one  ounce  of  bees'-wax,  cut  up  in  small  pieces ;  set  it  by 
the  fireside,  until  perfectly  melted  and  quite  hot,  very  near  boil- 
ing heat ;  remove  the  jar  from   the  fire,  and  stir  into  it  rather 


28  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

less  than  a  table-spoonful  of  salad  oil,  and  rather  more  than  a 
table-spoonful  of  best  spirits  of  turpentine;  continue  stirring 
till  well  mixed  and  nearly  cold  ;  fill  the  urn  with  boiling  water 
so  as  to  make  it  thoroughly  hot,  apply  a  thin  coating  of  the 
above  mixture,  and  rub  with  a  soft  cloth,  till -all  stickiness  is  re- 
moved, then  polish  with  a  clean  rag  and  a  little  crocus  powder. 
N.  B. — The  crocus  powder  must  be  very  fine,  so  as  to  sift 
through  muslin. 


78.  To  clean  Gilt  or  Lacquered  Articles, — Brush  them  with 
warm  soap  and  water,  wipe  them,  and  set  them  before  the  fire 
to  dry  ;  finish  with  a  soft  cloth.  By  this  simple  means  may  be 
cleaned  ormolu  and  French  gilt  candelabra,  branches,  and  lamps; 
mosaic  gold  and  gilt  jewelry,  toys  and  ornaments.  Care  is  re- 
quisite in  brushing  the  dirt  from  fine  work,  and  finishing  it  quite 
dry.  Any  thing  stronger  than  soap,  as  acids,  pearl-ash,  or  soda, 
will  be  liable  to  remove  the  lacquer. 

To  poll  ah  inlaid  Brass  Ornaments, — Mix  powdered  tiipoli  and 
linseed  oil,  and  dip  in  it  a  piece  of  hat,  with  which  rub  the  brass ; 
then,  if  the  wood  be  ebony,  or  dark  rosewood,  polish  it  with 
elder  ashes  in  fine  powder. 


79.  Tb  clean  Lacquer, — Make  a  paste* of  starch,  one  part; 
powdered  rotten-stone,  twelve  parts  ;  sweet  oil,  two  parts ;  ox- 
alic acid,  one  part ;  water  to  mix. 

80.  To  clean  Door-plates, — To  clean  brass-plates  on  doors,  so 
as  not  to  injure  the  paint  at  the  edges,  cut  the  size  of  the  plate 
out  of  a  large  piece  of  mill-board,  place  it  against  the  door,  and 
rub  the  plate  with  rotten-stone,  or  crot^us  and  sweet  oil,  upon 
leather. 


81.  To  clean  Mother -o^ -pearl, — Wash  in  whiting  and  water. 
Soap  destroys  the  brilliancy. 

82.  To  clean  Ifnivcs  and  Forks, — Hold  the  knives  straightly 
on  the  board,  and  pass  them  backward  and  forward  in  as  straight 
a  line  as  possible.  Forks  should  be  cleaned  with  a  stick  cov- 
ered with  buff-leather,  and  finished  with  a  brush.  The  best  ar- 
ticle for  cleaning  isg^he  powder  of  the  well-known  Flanders 
bricks^ 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  29 

83.  Of  Knife-hoards. — A  knife-board  properly  made,  should 
consist  of  an  inch-deal-board,  five  feet  long,  with  a  hole  at  one 
end  by  which  it  is  to  be  hung  up  when  not  in  use.  At  this  end, 
the  left  hand,  and  close  to  the  front  edge,  should  be  fastened  a 
stiff  brush  for  cleaning  forks.  At  the  other  end  should  be  a 
box,  with  the  open  end  towards  the  hand,  and  a  sliding  lid;  this 
should  contain  a  bath-brick,  leathers  for  forks,  &c.,  so  that  the 
materials  for  cleaning  may  be  shut  in  and  hung  up  with  the 
board. 

Or,  cover  a  smooth  board  ix^^  from  knots,  with  thick  buff- 
leather,  on  which  spread,  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  the  follow- 
ing paste  : — emery,  one  ounce ;  crocus,  three  ounces  ;  mixed 
with  lard  or  sweet  oil.  This  composition  will  not  only  improve 
the  polish,  but  also  the  edges  of  the  knives. 

84.  To  re-fasten  the  loose  handlei>  of  Knives  and  Forks, — 
Make  a  cement  of  common  brick-dust  and  rosin,  melted  toge- 
ther.    Seal-engravers  understand  this  receipt. 

85.  Metal  Kettles  and  other  Vessels. — The  crust  on  boilers  and 
kettles  arises  from  the  hardness  of  the  water  boiled  in  them. 
Its  formation  may  be  prevented  by  keeping  in  the  vessel  a  mar- 
ble, or  a  potato  tied  in  a  piece  of  linen. 

Tin-plate  vessels  are  cleanly  and  convenient ;  but,  unless  care- 
fully dried  after  washing,  they  will  soon  rust  in  holes. 

Iron  coal-scoops  are  liable  to  rust  from  the  damp  of  the  coals. 
'  If  cold  water  be  thrown  on  cast-iron  when  hot  (as  the  back 
of  a  grate),  it  will  crack.  Cast-iron  articles  are  brittle,  and  can- 
not  be  repaired. 

The  tinning  of  copper-saucepans  should  be  kept  perfect,  clean, 
and  dry  :  in  which  case  they  may  be  used  with  safety. 

Copper  pans,  if  put  away  damp^  will  become  coated  with 
poisonous  crust,  or  verdigris,  as  will  also  a  boiling-copper,  if 
left  wet.  When  used  for  cooking,  and  not  properly  cleaned, 
copper  vessels  have  occasioned  death  to  persons  partaking  of 
soup  which  had  been  warmed  in  a  pan  infected  w^ith  verdigiis. 

Untinned  copper  or  brass  vessels  are  at  all  times  dangerous  : 
it  is  absurd  to  suppose,  that  if  the  copper  or  brass  pan  be  scoured 
bright  and  clean,  there  is  little  or  no  danger,  for  this  makes  but 
a  trifling  difference;  such  vessels  for  culinary  purposes  ought  to 
be  banished  for  ever  from  the  kitchen. 

A  polished  silver  or  brass  tea-urn  will  keep  the  water  hotter 


30  MRS.    bale's    receipts    for    the    MiLLIOK. 

than  ore  of  a  dull  brown  color,  such  as  is  most  commonly  used. 
The  more  of  the  surface  of  a  kettle  that  is  polished,  the  sooner 
will  water  boil  in  it,  as  the  part  coated  with  soot  drives  off  ra» 
ther  than  retains  heat. 

A  polished  metal  tea-pot  is  preferable  to  one  of  earthenware; 
because  the  earthen  pot  retains  the  heat  only  one-eighth  of  the 
time  that  a  silver  or  polished  metal  pot  will ;  consequently,  the 
latter  will  best  draw  the  tea. 

A  German  saucepan  is  best  adapted  for  boiling  milk  in :  this 
is  a  saucepan  glazed  with  white  earthenware,  instead  of  being 
tinned  in  the  usual  manner ;  the  glaze  prevents  the  tendency  to 
burn,  which,  it  is  well  known,  milk  possesses. 

A  stewpan,  made  as  the  German  saucepan,  is  preferable  to  a 
metal  preserving-pan  ;  simple  washing  keeps  it  sweet  and  clean, 
and  neither  color  nor  flavor  can  by  any  chance  be  communi- 
cated to  the  article  boiled  in  it. 

Ornamental  furniture,  inlaid  with  brass  or  buhl,  should  not 
be  placed  very  near  the  fire,  as  the  metal  when  it  becomes 
warm  expands,  and,  being  then  too  large  for  the  space  in  which 
it  was  laid,  starts  from  the  wood. 

"  German  silver"  will  not  rust ;  but  it  does  not  contain  a  par- 
ticle of  silver,  it  being  only  white  copper.  If  left  in  vinegar,  or 
any  acid  mixture,  it  will  become  coated  with  verdigris.  Salt 
should  never  be  left  in  silver  cellars,  else  the  metal  will  be 
much  injured. 


86.  To  clean  Glasses, — Glasses  should  be  first  washed  in 
warm  clean  soap-suds,  and  rinsed  in  fresh  cold  water ;  wipe  off 
the  wet  with  one  cloth,  and  finish  them  with  another. 


87.  Cleaning  Decanters,— ^TYiO^o.  enctusted  with  dregs  of  port 
wine,  can  be  readily  freed  from  stain  by  washing  them  with  the 
refuse  of  the  teapot,  leaves  and  all.  Dip  the  decanter  into  a 
vessel  containing  warm  water,  to  prevent  the  hot  tea-leaves 
fvom  cracking  the  glass,  then  empty  the  teapot  into  the  decan- 
ter, and  shake  it  well.  The  tannin  of  the  tea  has  a  chemical 
affinity  for  the  crust  on  the  glass. 

88.  To  clean  Decanters, — Put  into  them  broken  egg-shells, 
pieces  of  coarse  brown  or  blotting  paper,  with  pearlash,  and 
nearly  fill  them  with  lukewarm  water ;  shake  them  well  for  a 
few  minutes,  or,  if  very  dirty,  leave  them  for  some  hours,  when 


HOME    A-SD   ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  31 

rinse  the  decanters  with  cold  water.  The  settlement  of  the 
crust  of  wine  in  decanters,  may  be  best  prevented  by  rinsing 
at  night,  with  cold  water,  all  the  decanters  used  during  the  day. 
To  clean  the  outer  work  of  decanters,  rub  it  with  a  damp  sponge 
dipped  in  whiting ;  then  brush  it  well,  rinse  the  vessel  in  cold 
water,  drain,  and  finish  with  a  fine  dry  cloth. 

89.  To  remove  Crust  from  Glass. — It  often  happens  that  glass 
vessels  used  for  flowers  and  other  purposes,  receive  an  unsight- 
ly crust  hard  to  be  removed  by  scouring.  The  best  method  is 
to  wash  itwith  a  little  diluted  spirit  of  salts,  which  will  soon 
loosen  it. 


90.  To  cleanse  Bottles, — To  cleanse  bottles  with  bad  smells, 
put  into  them  pieces  of  blotting  or  brown  paper,  and  fill  up 
with  water ;  shake  the  bottles,  and  leave  them  for  a  day  or  two, 
when,  if  they  be  not  sweetened,  repeat  the  process,  and  rinse 
with  pure  water. 


91.  To  restore  the  Lustre  of  Glasses  tarnished  hy  Age  or  Acci- 
dent,— Strew  on  them  powdered  fuller's-earth,  carefully  cleared 
from  sand,  (fee,  and  rub  them  carefully  witft  a  linen  cloth.  Ox- 
ide of  tin  (putty)  would  perhaps  be  better. 


92.  To  clean  China, —  China  is  best  cleaned,  when  very  dirty, 
with  finely-powdered  fuller's-earth  and  warm  water ;  afterwards 
rinsing  it  well  in  clean  water.  A  little  clean  soft  soap  may  be 
added  to  the  water  instead  of  fuller's-earth.  The  same  plan  is 
recommended  for  cleaning  glass. 


93.  To  clean  Alabaster, — Remove  any  spots  of  grease  with 
spirit  of  turpentine :  then  dip  the  article  in  water  for  about  ten 
minutes,  rub  it  with  a  painter's  bru^  and  let  it  dry ;  finish  by 
rubbing  it  with  a  soft  brush  dipped  into  dry  and  fine  plaster  of 
Paris, 


94.  To  bleach  Ivory, — Ivory  that  has  become  discolored,  may 
be  brought  to  a  pure  whiteness  by  exposing  it  to  the  sun  under 
glasses;  having  first  brushed  the. ivory  with  pumice-stone,  burnt 
and  made  into  a  paste  with  water.  To  conceal  the  cracks  in 
antique  ivory,  brush  out  the  dust  with  waim  water  and  soap, 
and  then  place  the  ivory  under  glass.     It  should  be  daily  ex- 


32  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

posed  to  the  sun,  and  turned  from  time  to  time,  that  it  may 
become  equally  bleached. 


95.  Glazed  Vessels, — The  glazing  of  stone  ware  is  sometimes 
very  imperfect:  to  test  it,  nearly  fill  the  vessel  with  vinegar, 
into  which  put  some  fat  of  beef,  salted  ;  boil  for  half  an  hour, 
and  set  it  by  for  a  day,  when,  if  the  glazing  be  imperfect,  small 
black  particles  of  lead  will  be  seen  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel. 


96.  Use  of  Candle  Snuffs  for  cleaning  Glass, —  Candle  snuffs 
are  generally  thrown  away  as  useless ;  they  are,  however,  of 
great  utility  for  cleaning  mirrors  and  windows,  especially  the 
former.  For  this  purpose  take  a  small  quantity  of  the  burnt 
snuffs  and  rub  them  with  a  soft  cloth  upon  the  surface  of  the 
mirror.  In  a  short  time  a  splendid  polish  will  appear,  superior 
to  that  obtained  by  other  means.  We  know  those  who  clean 
the  whole  of  the  windows  in  a  large  house  with  snuffs ;  and  we 
are  told  that  not  only  are  the  windows  cleaned  much  better  but 
also  much  quicker  than  by  the  ordinary  methods. 

A  Razor  Strop  J^ste  \s  also  made  of  candle-snuffs,  and  an- 
swers very  well.  It  consists  in  simply  rubbing  a  small  quan- 
tity of  the  snuffs  upon  the  strop ;  this  imparts  a  keener  edge  to 
the  razor  than  when  no  such  paste  is  employed.  Mechi's  cele- 
brated Magic  Razor  Strop  Paste  is  certainly  an  excellent  article, 
but  we  question  whether  it  be  much  superior  to  the  ordinary 
and  common-place  substance  now  recommended. 


97.  To  loosen  the  Glas$§S topples  of  Smelling  Bottles  and  De- 
canters,— With  a  feather  rub  a  drop  or  -two  of  olive  oil  round 
the  stopple,  close  to  the  inouth  of  the  bottle  or  decanter,  which 
must  be  then  placed  befoi^  the  fire,  at  the  distance  of  a  foot  or 
eighteen  inches ;  in  which  position  the  heat  will  cause  the  oil  to 
spread  downward  between  the  stopple  and  the  neck.  When 
the  bottle  or  decanter  has  grown  warm,  gently  strike  the  stop- 
ple on  one  side,  and  on  the  other,  with  any  light  wooden  in- 
strument; then  try  it  with  the  hand.  If  it  will  not  yet  move, 
place  it  again  before  the  fire,  adding,  if  you  choose,  another 
drop  of  oil.  After  a  while  strike  again  as  before ;  and  by  per- 
severing in  this  process,  however  tightly  the  stopple  may  be 
fastened  in,  you  will  at  length  succef^  in  loosening  it. 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  33 

98.  Or,  knocking  the  stopper  gently  with  a  piece  of  wood, 
first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  will  generally  loosen  it. 
If  this  method  does  not  succeed,  a  cloth  wetted  with  hot  water 
and  applied  to  the  neck,  will  sometimes  expand  the  glass  suffi- 
ciently to  allow  the  stopper  to  be  easily  withdrawn. 

99.  Crockery  and  Glass. — Crockery  and  glass,  to  be  used  for 
holding  hot  water,  are  best  seasoned  by  boiling  them,  by  put- 
ting the  articles  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  over  the  fire,  and 
letting  the  water  just  boil ;  the  saucepan  should  then  be  re- 
moved, and  the  articles  should  be  allowed  to  remain  in  it  till 
the  water  is  cold.  Some  kind  of  pottery  is  best  seasoned  by 
soaking  in  cold  water. 

Choose  thin  rather  than  thick  glasses,  as  the  thin  glass  is  less 
likely  to  be  broken  by  boiling  water  than  that  which  is  thicker; 
for,  thin  glass  allows  the  heat  to  pass  through  it  in  least  time. 
The  safest  plan  is  to  pour  boiling  water  very  slowly  into  cold 
glasses. 

As  boiling  water  will  often  break  cold  glass,  so  a  cold  liquid 
will  break  hot  glass ;  thus  wine,  if  poured  into  decanters  that 
have  been  placed  before  the  fire,  will  frequently  break  them. 

Glass  dishes  and  stands  made  in  moulds  are  much  cheaper 
than  others,  and  they  have  a  good  appearance,  if  not  placed 
near  cut-glass. 

Lamp-glasses  are  often  cracked  by  the  flame  being  too  high 
when  they  are  first  placed  round  it ;  the  only  method  of  pre- 
venting which  is  to  lower  the  flame  before  the  glass  is  put  on 
the  lamp,  and  to  raise  the  flame  gradually  as  the  glass  heats. 


100.  Polished  Tea  Urns  preferable  to  varnished  ones. — Pol- 
ished tea  urns  may  be  kept  boiling  with  a  much  less  expense 
of  spirits  of  wine,  than  such  as  are  varnished;  and  the  cleaner 
and  brighter  the  dishes,  and  covers  for  dishes,  which  are  ust^d 
for  bringing  food  to  table,  and  for  keeping  it  hot,  the  more  cf 
fi'Ctually  will  they  answer  that  purpose. 

101.  Japanned  CandlcsticJcs  and  Tea-Trays^  and  Paper  zvorlc. 
' — To  remove  grease  from  these,  let  the  water  be  just  warm 
enough  to  melt  it;  then  wipe  them  with  a  cloth,  and  if  they 
look  smeared,  sprhikle  a  little  flour  on  them,  and  wipe  it  clean 
oif.  Wax  candles  should  not  be  burned  in  the  candlesticks,  as 
the  wax   cannot   be   taken  oflT  without   injuring   the  varnish. 

3 


34  MRS.  male's  receipts  for  the  MiLLicar. 

Paper  work  is  liable  to  break  if  let  fall,  or  if  boiling  water  be 
poured  on  it. 

102.  To  dean  Lamps, — Bronzed  lamps  should  be  wiped  care- 
fully ;  if  oil  be  frequently  spilled  over  them,  it  will  cause  the 
bronzing  to  be  rubbed  off  sooner  than  it  would  disappear  by 
wear.  Brass  lamps  are  best  cleaned  with  crocus  or  rotten- 
stone  and  sweet  oil.  Lackered  lamps  may  be  washed  with  soap 
and  water,  but  should  not  be  touched  with  acid  or  very  strong 
ley,  else  the  lacker  will  soon  come  off.  When  lamps  are  foul 
inside,  wash  them  with  potash  and  water,  rinse  them  well,  set 
them  before  the  fire,  and  be  sure  they  are  dry  before  oil  is  again 
put  into  them. 

Lamps  will  have  a  less  disagreeable  smell,  if,  before  using, 
the  cottons  be  dipped  in  hot  vinegar,  and  dried. 

To  clean  ground-glass  shades,  wash  the  insides  carefully  with 
weak  soap  and  water,  lukewarm,  rub  them  very  lightly  and  dry 
with  a  soft  cloth. 


103.  To  make  economical  Wicks  for  Lamps. — When  using  a 
lamp  with  a  flat  wick,  if  you  take  a  piece  of  clean  cotton  stock- 
ing, it  will  answer  the  purpose  as  well  as  the  cotton  wicks 
which  are  sold  in  the  shops. 


104.    Wax  Candles, — Should  they  get  dirty  and  yellow,  wet 
them  with  a  piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  spirits  of  wine. 


105.  Blowing  out  a  Candle. — There  is  one  small  fact  in  do- 
mestic economy  which  is  not  generally  known,  but  which  is 
useful,  as  saving  time,  trouble,  and  temper.  If  a  candle  be 
blown  out  holding  it  above  you,  the  wick  will  not  smoulder 
down,  and  may  therefore  be  easily  lighted  again ;  but  if  blown 
upon  downwards,  the  contrary  is  the  case. 


106.  Plain  Hints  about  Candles, — Candles  improve  by  keep- 
ing a  few  months.  Those  made  in  winter  are  the  best.  The 
most  economical,  as  well  as  the  most  convenient  plan,  is  to 
purchase  them  by  the  box,  keeping  them  always  in  a  cool,  dry 
place.  If  wax  candles  become  discolored  or  soiled,  they  may 
be  restored  by  rubbing  them  over  with  a  clean  flannel  slightly 
dipped  in  spirits  of  wine.  Candles  are  sometimes  difficult  to 
light.     They  will  ignite  instantly,  if,  when  preparing  them  for 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  85 

the  evening,  you  dip  the  top  in  spirits  of  wine,  shortly  before 
they  are  wanted.  Light  them  always  with  a  match,  and  do 
not  hold  them  to  the  fire,  as  that  will  cause  the  tops  to  melt 
and  drip.  Always  hold  the  match  to  the  side  of  the  wick,  and 
not  over  the  top.  If  you  find  the  candles  too  small  for  the 
candlesticks,  always  wrap  a  small  piece  of  white  paper  round 
the  bottom  end,  not. allowing  the  paper  to  appear  above  the 
socket.  Cut  the  wicks  to  a  convenient  length  for  lighting 
(nearly  close) ;  for  if  the  wick  is  too  long  at  the  top,  it  will  be 
very  difficuk  to  ignite,  and  will  also  bend  down,  and  set  the 
candle  to  running.  Glass  receivers,  for  the  droppings  of  can- 
dles, are  very  convenient,  as  well  as  ornamental.  The  pieces 
of  candles  that  are  left  each  evening  should  be  placed  in  a  tin 
box  kept  for  that  purpose,  and  used  for  bed  lights. 

107.  To  make  an  imp'roved  Candle. — Make  the  wicks  about 
half  the  usual  size,  and  wet  them  with  spirits  of  turpentine ; 
dry  them,  before  dipping,  in  the  sunshine,  or  in  some  favorable 
place,  and  the  candles  will  be  more  durable,  emit  a  steadier 
and  clearer  blaze,  and  be  in  every  way  superior  to  those  made 
in  the  ordinary  way. 


108.  Quicksilver, — Tallow  will  take  up  quicksilver.    Vinegar 
kills  it. 


109.  Tog^ive  any  Close-grained  Wood  the  appearance  of  Mahog- 
any,— The  surface  of  the  wood  must  first  be  planed  smooth,  and 
then  rubbed  with  weak  aquafortis  ;  after  which  it  is  to  be  finished 
with  the  following  varnish  : — To  three  pints  of  spirit  of  wine 
is  to  be  added  four  ounces  and  a  half  of  dragon's  blood  and  an 
ounce  of  soda,  which  have  been  previously  ground  together ; 
after  standing  some: time,  that  the  dragon's  blood  may  dissolve, 
the  varnish  is  to  be  strained,  and  laid  on  the  wood  with  a  soft 
brush.  This  process  is  to  be  repeated,  and  then  the. wood  pos- 
sesses the  perfect  appearance  of  mahogany.  When  the  polish 
diminishes  in  brilliancy,  it  may  be"  speedily  restored  by  rubbing 
the  article  with  linseed  oil. 


110.   To  Darken  Mahogany, — Drop  a  nodule  of  lime  in  a  ba- 
sin of  water,  and  wash  the  mahogany  with  it. 


Ill,  To  make  Imitation  Rosewood, — Brush  the  wood  over 
with  a  strong  decoction  of  logwood,  while  hot ;  repeat  this  pro- 


36  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

cess  three  or  four  times ;  put  a  quantity  of  iron-filings  amongst 
vinegar ;  then  with  a  flat  open  brush,  made  with  a  piece  of 
cane,  bruised  at  the  end,  or  split  with  a  knife,  apply  the  solu- 
tion of  iron-filings  and  vinegar  to  the  wood  in  such  a  manner  as 
to  produce  the  fibres  of  the  wood  required.  After  it  is  dry,  the 
wood  must  be  polished  with  turpentine  and  bees'-wax. 

112.  Imitation  of  Ebony, — Pale-colored  woods  are  stained  in 
imitation  of  ebony  by  washing  them  with,  or  steeping  them  in 
a  strong  decoction  of  logwood  or  galls,  allowing  them  to  dry, 
and  then  washing  them  over  with  a  solution  of  the  sulphate  or 
acetate  of  iron.  When  dry,  they  are  washed  with  clean  water, 
and  the  process  repeated,  if  required.  They  are,  lastly,  polished 
or  varnished. 


113.  Cheap  Coloring  for  Rooms, — Boil  any  quantity  of  po- 
tatoes, bruise  them,  and  pour  on  them  boiling  w^ater  until  a 
pretty  thick  mixture  is  obtained,  w^iich  is  to  be  passed  through 
a  sieve ;  then  mix  whiting  with  boiling  w^ater,  and  add  it  to 
the  potato  mixture.  To  color  it,  add  either  of  the  ochres,  lamp- 
black, &;c. 

114.  Cheap  Paint, — Tar  mixed  with  yellow  ochre  makes  an 
excellent  green  paint,  for  coarse  wood- work,  iron  fencing,  &;c. 

115.  Weather-proof  Composition. — Mix  a  quantity  of  sand 
with  double  the  quantity  of  wood  ashes,  well  sifted,  and  three 
times  as  much  slackened  lime  ;  grind  these  with  linseed  oil,  and 
use  the  composition  as  paint;  the  first  coat  thin,  the  second 
thick ;  and  in  a  short  time  it  will  become  so  hard  as  to  resist 
weather  and  time. 

Or,  slake  lime  in  tar,  and  into  it  dip  sheets  of  the  thickest 
brown  paper,  to  be  laid  on  in  the  manner  of  slating. 


116.  Artificial  Marble, — Soak  in  a  solution  of  alum  a  quan 
tity  of  plaster  of  Paris.  Bake  it  in  an  oven,  and  grind  it  to  a 
powder.  When  wanted,  mix  it  with  water  to  about  the  consist- 
ency of  plaster.  It  sets  into  an  exceedingly  hard  composition, 
and  takes  a  high  polish.  It  may  be  mixed  with  various  colored 
minerals  or  ochres  to  represent  the  various  marbles,  and  is  a 
valuable  receipt. 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  87 

117.  To  give  Wooden  Stairs  the  Appearance  of  Stone. — Paint 
the  stairs,  step,  by  step,  with  white  paint,  mixed  with  strong 
drying  oil.     Strew  it  thick  with  silver  sand. 

It  ought  to  be  thoroughly  dry  next  jnorning,  when  the  loose 
sand  is  to  be  swept  off.  The  painting  and  sanding  is  to  be  re- 
peated,  and  when  dry,  the  surface  is  to  be  done  over  with  pipe- 
clay, whiting,  and  water ;  which  may  be  boiled  in  an  old  sauce- 
pan, and  laid  on  wath  a  bit  of  flannel,  not  too  thick,  otherwise  it 
will  be  apt  to  scale  off. 

A  penny  cake  of  pipe-clay,  which  must  be  scraped,  is  the 
common  proportion  to  half  a  lump  of  whiting. 

The  pipe-clay  and  whiting  is  generally  applied  once  a  w^eek, 
but  that  might  be  done  only  as  occasion  requires. 

118.  Lime  for  Cottage  Walh^ikc, — Take  a  stone  or  two  of  un- 
slaked w^hite  lime,  and  dissolve  it  in  a  pail  of  cold  water.  This, 
of  course,  is  whitewash.  The  more  lime  used,  the  thicker  it 
will  be ;  but  the  •  consistence  of  cream  is  generally  advisable. 
In  another  vessel  dissolve  some  green  vitriol  in  hot  water.  Add 
it,  when  dissolved,  to  the  whitewash,  and  a  buff  is  produced. 
The  more  vitriol  used,  the  darker  it  will  be.  Stir  it  well  up, 
and  use  it  in  the  same  way  as  whitewash,  having  first  carefully 
got  off  all  the  old  dirt  from  the  walls.  Two  or  three  coats  are 
usually  given.  For  a  border  at  top  and  base,  use  more  vitriol, 
to  make  it  darker  than  the  walls.  If  you  have  stencil-plates, 
you  can  use  it  with  them.  This  is  cheap,  does  not  rub  off  like 
ochre,  and  is  pure  and  wholesome,  besides  being  disinfecting. 

119.  ^  White  for  Inside  Painting^  which  dries  hi  about  four 
hours,  and  leaves  no  smelL — Take  one  gallon  of  soirits  of  tur 
pentine,  and  two  pounds  of  frankincense ;  let  them  simmer  over 
a  clear  fire  till  dissolved,  then  strain  and  bottle  it.  Add  one 
quart  of  this  mixture'  to  a  gallon  of  bleached  linseed  oil,  shake 
them  well  together,  and  bottle  them  likewise.  Grind  any  quan- 
tity of  white-lead  very  fine  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  then  add 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  last  mixture  to  it,  till  you  find  it  fit 
for  laymg  on.  If  it  grows  thick  in  working,  it  must  be  thinned 
with  spirit  of  turpentine ;  it  gives  a  flat,  or  dead  white. 

120.  A  Green  Faint  for  Garden  Stands,  Trellisses,  cfec— 
Take  mineral  green,  and  white  lead  ground  in  turpentine ;  mix 
up  the  quantity  you  wish  with  a  small  quantity  of  turpentine- 


38  HRS.  bale's  receipts  fo«  the  million. 

varnish ;  this  serves  for  the  first  coat ;  for  the  second,  put  as 
much  varnish  in  your  mixture  as  will  produce  a  good  gloss ;  if 
you  desire  a  brighter  green,  add  a  small  quantity  of  Prussian 
blue,  which  will  much  improve  the  beauty  of  the  color. 

121.  Cheap  and  heautiful  Green, — The  cost  of  this  paint  is 
less  than  one-fourth  of  oil  color,  and  the  beauty  far  superior. 
Take  four  pounds  of  Roman  vitriol,  and  pour  en  it  a  tea-kettle- 
ful  of  boiling  water ;  when  dissolved,  add  two  pounds  of  pearl- 
ash,  and  stir  the  mixture  well  with  a  stick  until  the  effervescence 
cease ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  arsenic,  and 
stir  the  whole  together.  Lay  it  on  with  a  paint  brush,  and  if 
the  wall  has  not  been  painted  before,  at  least  two,  or  even  three 
coats,  will  be  requisite.  If  a  pea-green  is  required,  put  in  less, 
and  iif  an  apple-green,  more,  of  the  yellow  arsenic. 

122.  To  Destroy  the  Smell  of  Fresh  Paint, — Mix  chloride  of 
lime  with  water,  with  which  damp  some  hay,  and  strew  it  upon 
the  floor. 


123.  To  take  the  Smell  of  Paint  from  jRoom^,—hei  three  or 
four  broad  tubs,  each  containing  about  eight  gallons  of  water, 
and  one  ounce  of  vitriolic  acid,  be  placed  in  the  new  painted 
room  near  the  wainscot ;  this  water  will  absorb  and  retain  the 
effluvia  from  the  paint  in  three  days,  but  the  water  should  be 
renewed  each  day  during  that  time. 

124.  To  remove  Unpleasant  Odors, — ^The  unpleasant  smell  of 
new  paint  is  best  removed  by  time  and  atmospheric  ventilation ; 
but  tubs  of  water  placed  in  the  apartment,  will  act  more  rapid- 
ly ;  with  this  inconvenience,  however,  that-the  gloss  of  the  paint 
will  be  destroyed.  Unpleasant  smells  from  water-closets,  or 
all  articles  of  furniture  connected  with  them,  may  be  modified 
by  the  application  of  lime-water,  to  which  may  be  added  the 
soap-suds  that  have  been  used  in  washing,  which  neutralize  the 
pungently  offensive  salts ;  a  little  quick-lime  put  into  a  night- 
chair  will  destroy  all  disagreeable  effluvia.  Aromatic  pastiles 
of  the  following  composition  may  be  burned  with  great  success : 
take  of  camphor,  flowers  of  benzoin,  powdered  charcoal,  pow- 
dered cascarilla  bark,  powdered  Turkey  myrrh,  and  powdered 
nitre,  each  equal  quantities ;  beat  them  with  syrup  sufficient  to 
form  a  mass,  and  divide  into  pastiles  of  a  conical  shape.    They 


HOME   AND    ITS     EMPLOYMENTS.  ^ 

may  be  mixed  up  with  spirit  of  turpentine  (the  rectified  oil)  or 
anything  that  is  inflammable.  Syrup  does  best,  as  it  is  most 
adhesive. 


125.  To  'prevent  disagreeable  Smells  from  Privies^  Night  Chairs^  < 
dtc, — Milk  of  lime  (water  in  which  lime  has  been  slaked,  and 
which  is  whitened  by  the  fine  particles  of  that  substance)  must 
be  mixed  with  a  ley  of  ashes,  or  soapy  water  that  has  been 
used  in  washing,  then  thrown  into  the  sink  of  the  privy ;  it  will 
destroy  the  offensive  smell.  By  these  means,  for  the  value  of  a 
few  pence,  any  collection  of  filth  whatever  may  be  neutralized. 

For  the  night-chair  of  sick  persons,  put  within  the  vessel 
half  a  pound  of  quicklime,  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  sal-am- 
moniac, and  water  one  pint :  this  will  prevent  any  disagreeable 
odor. 


126.  Remarks, — rQuicklime,  or  even  lime  just  slaked,  answers 
the  purpose  without  any  addition.  It  is  the  only  thing  used  in 
camps,  particularly  in  hot  countries,  to  keep  the  ditches  from 
creating  contagion. 

127.  To  clean  Books  or  Prints, — Ink  spots  may  be  removed 
by  oxalic  acid  dissolved  in  water,  and  carefully  applied  with  a 
hair  pencil.  To  remove  oil  or  grease,  warm  the  spot,  lay  over 
it  blotting  paper,  and  upon  it  the  heated  blade  of  a  knife,  when 
the  blotting-paper  will  absorb  the  grease ;  then  apply  spirits  of 
turpentine,  with  a  hair  pencil,  and  restore  the  whiteness  of  the 
paper  with  spirits  of  wine. 


128.  To  preserve  Books, — A  few  drops  of  any  perfumed  oil 
will  secure  libraries  from  the  consuming  effects  of  mouldiness 
and  damp.  Russian  leather  which  is  perfumed  with  the  tar  of 
the  birch-tree,  never  moulds ;  and  merchants  suffer  large  bales 
of  this  article  to  lie  in  the  London  Docks  in  the  most  careless 
manner,  knowing  that  it  cannot  sustain  any  injury  from  damp. 


129.  To  clean  Oil  Paintings, — Clean  the  picture  well  with  a 
sponge,  dipped  in  warm  beer ;  after  it  has  become  perfectly  dry, 
wash  it  with  a  solution  of  the  finest  gum-dragon,  dissolved  in 
pure  water.  Never  use  blue  starch,  which  tarnishes  and  eats 
out  the  coloring  ;  nor  white  of  eggs,  which  casts  a  thick  varnish 
over  pictures,  and  only  mends  bad  ones  by  concealing  the  faults 
of  the  coloring. 


40  MBS.    HALE's    receipts    fob    THH    MIIfLION. 

130.  To  Light  a  Coal  Fire, — A  considerable  saving  of  time  and 
trouble  might  often  be  effected,  if  housemaids  would  attend  to 
the  following  rales  in  lighting  a  fire  : — Clear  the  grate  well  from 
ashes  and  cinders ;  then  lay  at  the  bottom  of  it  a  few  lumps  of 
afresh  coal^  about  the  size  of  ducks'  eggs,  so  as  not  wholly  to  ob- 
struct the  air  passing  between  the  bars  on  which  they  are  placed. 
This  done,  put  a  small  quantity  of  waste  paper  or  shavings  next 
upon  the  coal ;  then  a  few  sticks  or  pieces  of  split  wood  placed 
carefully  above  it,  so  that  they  may  not  project  between  the 
bars ;  then  a  layer  of  the  cinders  you  have  before  taken  from  the 
grate ;  and  next  a  few  lumps  of  coal  on  the  top.  Take  care  to 
complete  this  process  before  applying  the  light,  which  may  easily 
be  done  afterwards  by  means  of  a  lucifer  match,  and  you  will 
seldom  fail  to  have  a  good  fire  in  a  few  minutes. 

Nothing  is  easier  than  to  light  a  fire  in  the  way  here  recom- 
mended, but  the  coals  and  cinders  must  be  laid  in  place  by 
hand,  and  not  thrown  in  anyhow  with  the  shovel.  If  the  kin- 
dling wood  be  green  or  damp,  it  should  be  dried  over  night,  as 
a  more  miserable  task  cannot  be  attempted  than  to  light  a  fire 
with  damp  materials. 


131.  Another  Way, — ^To  light  a  fire  from  one  already  kindled, 
put  three  or  four  pieces  of  charcoal  between  the  bars  of  the 
grate ;  then  lay  a  few  pieces  of  fresh  coal  upon  the  bottom  of 
the  grate  in  which  the  second  fire  is  to  be  made,  and  place  upon' 
them,  crosswise,  the  lighted  pieces  of  charcoal ;  cover  them  with 
pieces  of  fresh  coal,  and  blow  them  with  the  hand-bellows, 
when  the  charcoal  will  set  fire  to  the  fresh  coal,  and  a  brisk  fire 
will  be  made  in  a  few  minutes.  On  the  contrary,  if  we  light  a 
fii'e  with  wood,  some  time  must  elapse  before  it  can  safely  be 
blown. 


132.  Economy  in  Fuel. — A  saving  of  nearly  one-third  of  the 
coal  consumed  may  be  made  by  the  following  easy  means : — 
Let  the  coal  ashes,  which  are  usually  thrown  into  the  dust  bin, 
be  preserved  in  a  corner  of  the  coal  hole,  and  make  your  ser- 
vants add  to  them  from  your  coal  heap  an  equal  part  of  the 
small  coal  or  slack,  w^hich  is  too  small  to  be  retained  in  the 
grate,  and  pour  a  small  quantity  of  water  upon -the  mixture. 
When  you  make  up  your  fire,  place  a  few  round  coals  in  front, 
and  throw  some  of  this  mixture  behind  ;  it  saves  the  trouble  of 
sifting  your  ashes,  gives  a  warm  and  pleasant  fire,  and  a  very 
small  part  only  will  remain  unburn t. 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  41 

133.  Fire  Balls, — Mix  one  bushel  of  small  ooal,  or  saw-dust, 
or  both,  with  two  bushels  of  sand,  and  one  bushel  and  a  half 
of  clay  ;  make  the  mixture  into  balls  with  water,  and  pile  them 
in  a  dry  place,  to  harden  them.  A  fire  cannot  be  lighted  with 
these  balls ;  but  when  it  burns  strong,  put  them  on  above  the 
top  bar,  and  they  will  keep  up  a  strong  heat. 


134.  To  prevent  the  ill  effects  of  Charcoal, — Set  over  the  burn- 
ing charcoal  a  vessel  of  boiling  w^ater,  the  steam  of  which  will 
prevent  danger  from  the  fumes.     . 


135.  Method  of  sweeping  Chimneys  without  employing  ChiU 
dren^  and  the  danger  attending  the  old  Method  pointed  out. — Pro- 
cure a  rope  for  the  purpose,  twice  the  length  of  the  height  of 
the  chimney ;  to  the  middle  of  it  tie  a  bush  (broom  furze,  or 
any  other),  of  sufficient  size  to  fill  the  chimney ;  put  one  end  of 
the  rope  down  the  chimney  (if  there  be  any  windings  in  it,  tie 
a  bullet  or  round  stone  to  the  end  of  the  rope),  and  introduce 
the  wood  end  of  the  bush  after  the  rope  has  descended  into  the 
chamber  ;  then  let  a  person  pull  it  down.  The  bush,  by  the 
elasticity  of  its  twigs,  brushes  the  sides  of  the  chimney  as  it  de- 
scends, and  carries  the  soot  with  it.  If  necessary,  the  person  at 
the  top,  who  has  hold  of  the  other  end  of  the  rop  *^  draws  the 
bush  up  again ;  but,  in  this  case,  the  person  below  must  turn 
the  bush,  to  send  the  wood  end  foremost,  before  he  calls  to  the 
person  at  top  to  pull  it  up. 

Many  people,  who  are  silent  to  the  calls  of  humanity,  are 
yet  attentive  to  the  voice  of  interest:  chimneys  cleansed  in  this 
way  never  need  a  tenth  part  of  the  repairs  required  where  they 
are  swept  by  children,  who  being  obliged  to  work  themselves 
up  by  pressing  with  their  feet  and  knees  on  one  side,  and  their 
back  on  the  other,  often  force  out  the  bricks  which  divide  the 
chimneys.  This  is  one  of  the  causes  why,  in  many  houses,  a 
fire  in  one  apartment  always  fills  the  adjoining  ones  with  smoke, 
and  sometimes  even  the  neighboring  house.  Nay,  some  houses 
have  even  been  burnt  by  this  means ;  for  a  foul  chimney,  tak- 
ing fire,  has  been  frequently  known  to  communicate,  by  these 
apertures,  to  empty  apartments,  or  to  apartments  filled  with 
timber,  where,  of  course,  it  was  not  thought  necessary  to  make 
any  examination,  after  extinguishing  the  fire  in  the  chimney 
where  it  began. 


4:2  MRS.    HALE's    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

136.  To  revive  a  dull  Fire, — Powdered  nitre,  strewed  on  the 
fire,  is  the  best  bellows  that  can  be  used. 


137.  Fires,  Stoves,  &c. — It  is  wasteful  to  wet  small  coal, 
though  it  is  commonly  thought  to  make  a  fire  last  longer :  in 
truth,  it  wastes  the  heat,  and  for  a  time  makes  a  bad  fire. 

A  close  stove  intended  to  warm  an  apartment  should  not 
have  a  polished  surface,  else  it  will  keep  in  the  heat ;  whereas, 
if  of  rough  and  unpolished  cast  iron,  the  heat  will  be  dispersed 
through  the  room. 

Long,  shallow  grates,  are  uneconomical,  as  the  body  of  the 
coal  in  them  is  not  soon  heated,  and  requires  to  be  oftener  re- 
plenished to  keep  up  the  fire. 

A  good  fire  should  be  bright  without  being  too  hot :  the  best 
and  quickest  mode  of  making  up  a  neglected  fire  is  to  stir  out 
the  ashes,  and  with  the  tongs  fill  up  the  spaces  between  the 
bars  with  cinders  or  half-burnt  coals :  this  method  will  soon 
produce  a  glowing  fire.  If  coke  can  be  mixed  with  coals,  the 
fire  will  require  extra  attention ;  coke,  however,  makes  too 
much  dust  for  fires  in  the  best  rooms. 


138.  Water » — Hard  water  by  boiling  may  be  brought  nearly 
to  the  stat^  of  soft.  A  piece  of  chalk  put  into  spring  water  will 
soften  it. 

Rain,  or  the  softest  water,  is  better  adapted  than  any  other 
for  washing  and  cleaning ;  but  it  must  be  filtered  for  drinking 
in  large  towns,  as  it  becomes  impure  from  the  roofs  and  plaster 
of  houses.  The  best  water  has  the  greatest  number  of  air  bub- 
bles when  poured  into  a  glass.  Hard  water  will  become  thick 
and  foul  sooner  than  soft  water. 


139.  To  purify  Water  for  drinking,  —  Filter  river  water 
through  a  sponge,  more  or  less  compressed,  instead  of  stone  or 
sand,  by  which  the  water  is  not  only  rendered  more  clear,  but 
wholesome ;  for  sand  is  insensibly  dissolved  by  the  water,  so 
that  in  four  or  five  years  it  will  have  lost  a  fifth  part  of  its 
weight.  Powder  of  charcoal  should  be  added  to  the  sponge 
when  the  water  is  foul,  or  fetid.  Those  who  examine  the  large 
quantity  of  terrene  matter  on  the  inside  of  tea-kettles  will  be 
convinced  all  water  should  be  boiled  before  dvunk. 


140.  Or,  take  a  large  flower-pot,  and  put  either  a  piece  of 
sponge  or  some  cleanly-washed  moss  over  tb<i  hole  at  the  bot- 


HOMB   AND    ITS   EMPLOYMENTS.  43 

torn.  Fill  the  pot  three-quarters  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  clean  sharp  sand,  and  charcoal  in  pieces  the  size  of  .peas.  On 
this  lay  a  piece  of  linen  or  woollen  cloth,  large  enough  to  hang 
over  the  sides  of  the  pot.  Pour  the  water  to  be  filtered  into  the 
basin  formed  by  the  cloth,  and  it  will  come  out  pure  through  the 
Bponge  or  moss  at  the  bottom. 


141.  To  purify  River ^  or  Muddy  Water. — Dissolve  half  an 
ounce  of  alum  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and  stirring  it  about  in 
a  puncheon  of  water  from  the  river,  all  the  impurities  will  soon 
settle  to  the  bottom,  and  in  a  day  or  two  it  will  become  quite 
clear. 


142.  To  purify  muddy  Water  of  Rivers  or  Pits, — Make  a 
number  of  holes  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  tub ;  lay  some  clean 
gravel  thereon,  and  above  this  some  clean  sand ;  sink  this  tub 
in  the  river  or  pit,  so  that  only  a  few  inches  of  the  tub  will  be 
above  the  surface  of  the  water ;  the  river  or  pit  water  will  filter 
through  the  sand,  and  rise  clear  through  it  to  the  level  of  the 
water  on  the  outside,  and  will  be  pure  and  limpid. 


143.  Method  of  makiny  putrid  Water  sweet  in  a  JViyhfs  Tiine. 
— Four  large  spoonfuls  of  unslaked  lime  put  into  a  puncheon 
of  ninety  gallons  of  putrid  water,  at  sea,  will,  in  one  night, 
make  it  as  clear  and  sweet  as  the  best  spring  water  just  drawn : 
but  unless  the  water  is  afterwards  ventilated  sufficiently  to  car- 
bonize the  lime,  it  will  be  a  lime  water.  Three  ounces  of  pure 
unslaked  lime  should  saturate  ninety  gallons  of  water. 


144.  Lead  Cisterns. — Lead  Cisterns  are  unsafe  to  hold  water 
for  culinary  purposes :  if  the  water  has  stood  in  them  several 
days  undisturbed,  a  small  white  coating  may  be  observed  at 
the  upper  edge  of  the  water ;  on  any  addition  of  water,  this 
coating  is  washed  off,  and  if  there  be  the  slightest  acidity  in  the 
vessel,  this  coating  will  be  dissolved  in  the  water,  and  thus  a 
poison  be  conveyed  into  the  stomach.  To  prevent  this,  the 
msides  of  lead  cisterns  should  be  occasionally  examined  and 
cleared  out. 


145.  To  prevent  the  freezing  of  Water  in  Pipes  in  the  Winter 
Time, — By  tying  up  the  ball-cock  with  straw  or  flannel  during 


44  MRS.   HALE*S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

the  frost,  the  freezing  of  pipes  will  often  be  prevented  ;  in  fact, 
it  will  always  be  prevented  where  the  main  pipe  is  higher  than 
the  cistern  or  other  reservoir,  and  the  pipe  is  laid  in  a  regular 
inclination  from  one  to  the  other,  for  then  no  water  can  remain 
in  the  pipe ;  or  if  the  main  is  lower  than  the  cistern,  and  the 
pipe  regularly  inclines,  upon  the  supply's  ceasing,  the  pipe 
will  immediately  exhaust  itself.  When  water  is  in  the  pipes, 
if  each  cock  be  left  a  little  dripping,  the  circulation  of  the  water 
will  prevent  its  freezing  in  the  pipes. 

146.  To  'preserve  Water  and  Meat  from  Putrefoxtion  in  long 
Voyages. — The  crews  of  two  Eussian  ships,  which  sailed  round 
the  world,  were  extremely  healthy.  During  the  whole  three 
years  of  their  voyage  only  two  men  died  of  the  crew  of  the 
Neva,  and  the  Naveshda  did  not  lose  a  single  man.  It  is 
known  that  their  fresh  water  was  preserved  in  charred  casks, 
but  it  is  not  so  generally  known  that  they  used  the  same  pre- 
caution  for  preserving  their  salted  provisions.  The  beef  they 
carried  out  with  them  tasted  as  pleasantly  upon  their  return, 
as  it  did  three  years  before,  when  first  salted. 

147.  To  make  Sea-water  fit  for  washing  Linen, — Soda  put 
into  sea-water  renders  it  turbid ;  the  lime  and  magnesia  fall  to 
the  bottom.  Therefore,  to  make  sea-water  fit  for  washing  linen, 
put  in  soda  enough  as  not  only  to  effect  a  precipitation  of  these 
earths,  but  to  render  the  water  sufficiently  alkaline. 


148.  Steam, — When  the  steam  from  a  tea-kettle  appears 
cloudy,  it  should  be  taken  from  the  fire,  as  the  water  is  then  fast 
boiling  away ;  the  steam  when  the  water  first  boils  being  quite 
transparent,  so  as  scarcely  to  be  seen  near  the  mouth  of  the 
spout.  The  top  of  the  kettle  should  be  kept  bright,  as  a  pol- 
ished surface  keeps  in  the  heat. 


149.  To  clean  a  Carriage. — Wash  the  body  and  wheels  with 
a  mop,  brush,  and  plenty  of  water.  Then  blacken  and  clean 
all  the  straps  and  leather,  first  cleaning  the  brass  or  other  orna- 
ments as  those  on  harness.  Next  brush  the  inside  lining,  clean 
the  glasses,  and  clean  and  trim  the  lamps.  Stains  may  be  re- 
moved from  panels  by  rubbing  them  with  sweet  oil  on  baize. 
The  wheels  should  be  occasionally  greased  or  oiled,  and  the 
linchpins  examined. 


HOME   AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  45 

150.  For  Coach  Wheels. — Melt  over  a  slow  fire  one  pound 
of  lard,  and  half  a  pound  of  black  lead  in  powder,  stirring  them, 
well ;  remove  the  mixture  from  the  fire,  and  stir  till  cold. 


151.  Harness  Makers^  Jet — Take  one  drachm  of  indigo,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  half  an  ounce  of  soft  soap,  four 
ounces  of  glue,  one  pennyworth  of  logwood  raspings,  and. one 
quart  of  vinegar ;  boil  the  whole  together  over  a  slow  fire,  till 
reduced  to  one  pint.  A  small  quantity  is  then  to  be  taken  up 
on  a  piece  of  clean  sponge,  and  thinly  applied  to  harness,  boots, 
&c.,  taking  care  that  they  are  previously  well  cleaned. 

N.B. — A  small  quantity  of  sulphate  of  iron  (green  vitriol) 
would  perhaps  greatly  improve  this. 


152.  To  clean  Hai-ness, — Having  washed  off  the  wet  dirt, 
sponge  the  harness  clean,  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  Next,  brush 
it  with  a  dry,  hard  brush,  and  clean  the  brass  ornaments. 

For  this  purpose,  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  turpentine,  with 
two  uunces  of  rotten-stone,  two  ounces  of  finely-powdered  char- 
coal, and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  droppings  of  sweet  oil ;  apply 
this  paste  with  leather,  and  polish  it  oft'  with  powdered  char- 
coal. 

Or,  clean  the  brass  ornaments  with  the  following  mixture, 
which  is  used  in  the-  Royal  Mews:  dissolve  one  ounce  of  oxalic 
acid  in  a  pint  of  water,  to  which  add  a  pint  of  naphtha.  To  give 
the  brass-work  a  fine  color,  powder  some  sal-ammoniac,  moisten 
it  with  water,  and  rub  it  upon  the  ornaments ;  then  heat  them 
over  charcoal,  and  polish  with  dried  bran  and  whiting. 

Or,  wash  the  brass-work  with  a  strong  solution  of  roche  alum, 
and  polish  it  with  tripoli. 

To  restore  the  color  of  harness,  clean  it,  and  brush  over  it 
the  following  mixture : — boil  half  a  pound  of  logwood  chips  in 
three  quarts  of  soft  water,  to  which  add  three  ounces  of  galls 
bruised  and  one  ounce  of  alum. 


153.  Oiling  Old  Leather, — A  practice  is  common  of  wetting 
harness,  &c.,  before  it  is  to  be  oiled,  under  the  idea  that  it  soaks 
in  the  oil  better  for  wetting.  No  two  things  are  less  capable 
of  union  than  oil  and  water.  The  leather  appears  soft  after  the 
above  practice,  but  a  dry  day  will  soon  show  how  hard  the 
leather  becomes  when  the  water  it  has  imbibed  has  evaporated, 
and  how  rotten  the  heart  of  the  leather  is,  although  the  outside 


46  MRS.    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

appears  yet  oily.  If  leather  be  dry  and  then  oiled,  the  quantity 
of  oil  consumed  will  tell  whether  the  leather  has  absorbed  the 
oil  or  not.  If  it  have,  it  will  last  for  years,  if  it  be  oiled  thor- 
oughly every  spring.  The  most  durable  stuff  to  nail  up  garden 
trees,  is  leather  soaked  in  oil,  and  then  drained  before  use.  Old 
shoes  and  harness  will  thus  be  of  use  when  no  longer  of  service 
to  the  body. 


154.  General  Washing, — Counterpanes,  blankets,  bed-hang- 
ings, &c.,  should  be  washed  in  summer,  as  they  will  then  dry 
quickly,  and  be  of  good  color. 

By  putting  linen  and  cotton  stockings  to  soak  the  night  before 
they  are  to  be  v/ashed,  much  soap  and  labor  will  be  saved. 

If  clothes  remain  long  dirty,  they  will  not  only  require  more 
soap  and  labor,  but  be  much  injured  in  washing, 

155.  Washing  Preparation, — Half  a  pound  of  soap ;  half  a 
pound  of  soda ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  quicJc-WniQ.  Cut  up  the 
soap  and  dissolve  it  in  half  a  gallon  of  boiling  water ;  pour  half 
a  gallon  of  boiling  water  over  the  soda ;  and  enough  boiling 
water  over  the  quick-lime  to  cover  it.  The  lime  must  be  quick 
and  fresh ;  if  quick,  it  will  bubble  up  when  the  hot  water  is 
poured  over  it.  Prepare  each  of  these  in  separate  Vessels.  Put 
the  dissolved  lime  and  soda  together,  and  boil  them  for  twenty 
minutes.     Then  pour  them  into  a  jar  to  settle. 

Another  method  of  making  this  preparation  is — Instead  of 
preparing  each  of  the  articles  by  themselves,  dissolve  over 
night  half  a  pound  of  soda  in  one  gallon  of  boiling  water,  pour 
it  on  the  lime,  and  let  it  settle ;  cut  up  the  soap,  and  pour  the 
clear  water  from  the  lime  and  soda  upon  it.  in  the  morning  it 
will  be  a  dissolved  mass,  fit  for  use.  In  this  way  the  twenty 
minutes'  boiling  of  the  lime  and  soda  is  dispensed  with. 

In  either  of  these  processes  white  or  common  yellow  soap 
may  be  used.  But  the  lime  should  be  white  and  quick.  If  it 
does  not  bubble  and  hiss  when  the  water  is  poured  on  it,  it  is 
unfit  for  use. 

This  preparation  contains  nothing  injurious  to  the  linen.  It 
has  been  proved  by  trial  that  if  the  directions  are  rightly  fol- 
lowed, it  is  less  destructive  than  the  old  method. 


156.  How  to  proceed  after  having  made  the  Preparation. — Set 
aside  the  flannels  and  colored  things,  as  they  must  7iot  be  washed 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS,  47 

in  this  way.  They  may  be  washed  in  the  usual  way  while  tho 
others  are  boiling. 

The  night  before,  the  collars  and  wristbands  of  shirts,  the 
feet  of  stockings,  &c.,  should  be  rubbed  well  with  soap  and  set 
to  soak. 

In  the  morning  pour  ten  gallons  of  water  into  the  copper, 
and  having  strained  the  mixture  of  lime  and  soda  well,  taking 
great  care  not  to  disturb  the  settlings,  put  it,  together  with  the 
soap,  into  the  water,  and  make  the  whole  boil  before  putting  in 
the  clothes.  A  plate  should  be  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the 
copper  to  prevent  the  clothes  from  burning. 

Boil  each  lot  of  clothes  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour.  Then 
rinse  them  well  in  cold  blue  water.  When  dry  they  will  be 
beautifully  white. 

The  same  water  will  do  for  three  lots.  Wash  the  finer  things 
first. 

After  having  been  used  for  the  clothes,  the  mixture  may  be 
employed  for  cleaning  silver,  brass,  or  any  other  kind  of  metal ; 
which  should  afterwards  be  dried  and  polished  with  leather. 
The  liquid  may  also  be  used  for  scouring  floors,  or  cleaning 
paint. 

157.  To  make  >5torcA.— Dissolve  as  much  starch  as  will  be 
required  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  cold  water ;  then  pour  boil- 
ing water  on  it  till  it  is  of  the  right  consistency,  and  let  it  boil 
once  or  twice. 

In  mixing  starchy  put  a  lump  of  sugar  in  it  to  prevent  it  from 
sticking  to  the  iron.  Stirring  the  starch  for  a  minute  with  a 
sperm  candle  improves  it  when  it  is  wanted  for  shirt  bosoms 
or  collars. 


158.  Gum  Arabic  Starch — Get  two  ounces  of  fine  white  gum 
arabic,  and  pound  it  to  powder.  Next  put  it  into  a  pitcher, 
and  pour  on  it  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling  water,  (according  to 
the  degree  of  strength  you  desire,)  and  then  having  covered  it, 
let  it  set  all  night.  In  the  morning,  pour  it  carefully  from  the 
dregs  into  a  clean  bottle,  cork  it,  and  keep  it  for  use.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  gum  water  stirred  into  a  pint  of  starch  that  has  been 
made  in  the  usual  manner,  will  give  to  lawns  (either  white  or 
printed)  a  look  of  newness  to  which  nothing  else  can  restore  them 
after  washing.  It  is  also  good  (much  diluted)  for  thin  white 
muslin  and  bobbinet. 


48  MRS.    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

159.  To  keep  Muslins  of  a  good  Color. —  Never  wash  muslins 
or  any  kind  of  white  cotton  goods,  with  linen ;  for  the  latter 
deposits  or  discharges  a  gum  and  coloring  matter  every  time  it 
is  washed,  which  discolors  and  dyes  the  cotton.  Wash  them  by 
themselves. 


160.  To  wash  Flannels, — Flannels  should  be  washed  in  soft 
water,  soap,  and  much  blue.     The  water  should  be  as  hot  as 
the  hands  will  bear;  wring  them  as  dry  as  possible,  shake  them 
and  hang  them  out ;  but  do  not  rinse  them  after  the  lather. 


161.  To  make  Flannels  not  shrink. — The  first  time  of  washing 
put  them  into  a  pail  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  lie  till  cold. 

162.  To  scour  Flamiels.— -Slice  half  a  pound  of  yellow  soap, 
and  dissolve  it  in  boiling  water,  so  as  to  make  it  of  the  thick- 
ness of  oil ;  cover  the  flannels  with  warm  water,  add  a  lump  of 
pearlash,  and  about  one-third  of  the  soap-solution  ;  beat  them 
till  no  head  rises  on  the  water;  then  pour  it  off,  and  proceecL 
as  before  with  hotter  water,  without  pearlash. 


163.  To  wash  Woollens. — Use  soft  water;  and,  in  order  to 
make  a  lather,  put  half  a  pound  of  soap  into  a  gallon  of  water, 
(or  as  much  more  in  proportion  as  is  necessary,)  and  boil  it 
until  the  soap  is  dissolved;  wash  through  two  waters,  (unless 
one  is  found  sufficient,)  as  warm  as  can  be  borne,  adding,  as 
you  go  on,  what  quantity  of  the  soap-water  is  needed;  wring 
them  out  each  time ;  then  throw  them  into  a  rinsing-tub,  and 
fill,  to  covering,  with  boiling  water.  Let  them  remain  until 
cool  enough  to  admit  of  handling,  then  proceed  to  rinse  well, 
and  wring  them. 

N.B. — Observe,  the  rinsing-water  must  be  hard  water — this 
is  the  secret.  This  method  will  do  for  any  kinds  of  woollens; 
but  for  large  and  strong,  such  as  blankets,  or  carpets,  &;c.,  per- 
haps wringing  would  be  better  omitted,  and  in  all  cases,  care 
should  be  taken  to  spread  out  the  articles  straight  and  smooth. 


164.  Drying  Clothes. — If  the  weather  be  favorable,  the  dry- 
ing may  be  best  finished  in  the  open  air ;  but  if  the  weather  be 
damp  or  doubtful,  the  article  should  be,  without  delay,  spread 
before  a  fire,  or  hung  in  an  apartment  where  there  is  a  strong 
current  of  air.     A  dry  cloth  should  be  placed  on  the  line  hedge, 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  40 

or  horse,  and  the  woollen  article  spread  upon  it.  The  more 
quickly  the  drying  can  be  accomplished  the  better.  For  this 
reason,  settled  dry  weather  should  be  chosen  for  this  kind  of 
work ;  if  windy,  all  the  better. 


165.  Family  Washing,  —  [The  following  method,  tnough 
not  generally  known,  is  much  practiced  in  many  families.] 
Melt  together  haif  a  pound  each  of  washing  soda  and  of  soap 
cuttings,  mix  well  with  sixteen  gallons  of  water,  pour  it  luke- 
warm over  the  dirty  linen,  and  leave  to  soak  for  twenty-four 
hours.  Drain  this  water  from  the  clothes,  and  put  them  into  a 
boiler,  with  a  second  supply  of  the  same  preparation  cold,  and 
Jet  them  boil  for  rather  a  longer  time  than  if  they  had  been  pre- 
viously washed.  They  will  then  require  to  be  washed  out  in 
clean,  warm  water,  looking  carefully  over  them  that  the  parts 
requiring  it  may  be  rubbed;  afterwards  rinse  in  the  usual  way. 
This  direction  applies  to  all  white  and  brown-holland  articles. 
Bobbinet,  and  lace,  retain  their  color  best,  if  only  scalded^  not 
boiled.  This  mode  of  washing  has  been  adoptedfor  many  years 
in  a  family  of  seven  persons;  the  linen  is  of  an  excellent  color, 
with  only  half  the  assistance  formerly  required,  and  the  quan- 
tity of  soap  used  is  much  lessened. 

N.  B.     The  refuse  water  is  a  good  manure  for  fruit  trees. 


166.  Substitutes  for  Soap, — Put  any  quantity  of  pearl-ash  or 
soda  into  a  large  jar,  cover  it  lightly,  and  in  a  few  days  it  will 
become  liquid  ;  then  mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  newly- 
slaked  lime,  and  double  its  quantity  of  soft  water:  boil  it  half 
an  houF,  add  as  much  more  hot  water,  and  pour  off  the  liquor. 

Two  ounces  of  pearl-ash,  used  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
soap,  will  effect  a  considerable  saving. 

For  coarse  purposes,  soft  soap  is  a  saving  of  nearly  one-half. 
The  most  economical  plan  of  keeping  hard  soap,  is  to  cut  it  into 
pieces  of  about  a  pound  each,  and  keep  it  moderately  dry. 

A  little  pipe-clay  dissolved  in  the  water,  or  rubbed  with  the 
soap  on  the  clothes,  will  give  the  dirtiest  linen  the  appearance 
of  having  been  bjeached  ;  it  will  also  clean  them  with  about 
half  the  labor,  and  a  saving  of  full  one-fourth  of  the  soap.  Pipe- 
clay will  also  render  hard  water  nearly  as  soft  as  rain-water. 

Carpets,  moreen   curtains,  or  other  woollen  goods,  may  be 

cleaned  with  the  coarse  pulp  of  potatoes,  used  as  a  kind  of  soap. 

4 


/ 


50  MRS.    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

167.  Horse-chestnut  Soap, — It  is  not  generally  known  that  the 
horse-chestnut  contains  a  soapy  juice,  not  only  useful  in  bleach- 
ing, but  in  washing  linens  and  stuffs.  The  nuts  must  be  peeled 
and  ground,  and  the  meal  of  twenty  of  them  will  be  sufficient 
to  mix  with  ten  quarts  of  hot  water,  with  which  the  clothes  may 
be  w^ashed  without  soap  ;  the  clothes  should  then  be  rinsed  in 
spring-water.  The  same  meal  being  steeped  in  hot  water,  and 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  bran,. will  make  a  nutritious 
food  for  poultry. 


168.  To  wash  a  Cotton  Counterpane, — Slice  a  pound  of  mottled 
soap,  dissolve  it  in  a  pailful  of  boiling  water,  and  add  a  small 
lump  of  pearl-ash ;  next,  put  the  counterpane  into  warm  water, 
with  a  bowl  of  the  soap-solution,  beat  it  and  turn  it,  wash  it  in  a 
second  liquor,  and  rinse  it  in  cold  water ;  then  put  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  liquid  blue  into  a  thin  liquor,  stir  together,  and 
put  in  the  counterpane  ;  beat  it  a  few  minutes,  and  dry  it  in  the 
air. 


169.  To  wash  Silk  Stockings^  White  and  Blaclc. — Cut  in  thin 
bits  some  white  soap,  and  boil  it  in  soft  water ;  pour  a  little  of 
it  among  cold,  soft  water,  and  wash  the  stockings,  first  upon  the 
inner  side ;  repeat  the  washing  with  fresh  suds  and  water,  till 
they  are  washed  quite  clean  ;  turn  the  outside  the  last  time  of 
washing,  and  if  the  feet  be  very  dirty,  rub  a  little  of  the  boiled 
soap  upon  them,  but  not  upon  the  legs.  •  I£  to  be  colored,  mix 
the  dye  with  a  little  clean  suds,  and  dip  in  the  white  stockings ; 
draw  them  out  smooth,  and  lay  them  upon  a  sheet  on  a  bed, 
with  the  window  open,  and  when  almost  dry,  lay  them  upon  a 
piece  of  flannel,  and  with  another  bit  rolled  up,  rub  thdm  hard 
and  quick  one  way  till  they  are  dry. 

170.  To  wash  Tliread  Stockings  and  Gloves, — Fine  thread- 
stockings  and  gloves  should  be  well  soaped,  put  into  a  lather 
of  cold  water,  and  boiled;  they  should  then  be  put  into  a  fresh, 
cold  lather,  and  be  boiled  again ;  when,  on  taking  them  out, 
they  will  require  little  more  than  rinsing. 

171.  To  wash  Cotton  Stockings, — Lay  them  in  cold  water  at 
night ;  next  day  boil  them  in  a  copper  with  some  soda  and  soap  ; 
stir  them  well  about,  and  they  will  become  quite  clean  without 
any  rubbing ;  rinse  them  well  in  cold  water,  and  bleach  them ; 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  51 

when  nearly  dry,  draw  them  smooth,  folding  them  straight  over 
the  instep.     Place  them  under  a  heavy  weight,  or  iron  them. 

172.  To  wash  Cotton  Bed-furniture^  and  printed  Calicoes  in 
general. — 1.  Get  rid  of  as  much  dirt  as  possible,  by  brushing 
and  shaking. 

2.  Do  not  let  the  dirty  things  lie  about  in  a  damp  wash-house, 
or  in  any  way  become  damp  before  they  are  fairly  wetted. 

3.  On  no  account  use  a  particle  of  soda,  pearl-ash,  or  any 
thing  of  the  kind. 

4.  Allow  plenty  of  water,  and  plenty  of  room  in.  the  tub. 

5.  Use  soft  water,  no  hotter  than  would  be  pleasant  for  wash- 
ing the  hands. 

6.  Rub  with  soap  in  the  ordinary  way.  Mottled  soap  is  pre- 
ferable to  yellow.  If  a  general  wash  is  about,  the  liquor  in 
which  flannels  have  been  washed  the  second  time,  does  very  well 
for  the  first  washing  of  colored  things ;  or  that  in  which  muslins 
have  been  washed  a  second  time,  provided  no  soda  or  anything 

■  else  of  the  kind  was  used. 

7.  When  the  first  washing  is  completed,  have  ready  another 
tub  with  water  of  the  same  degree  of  warmth,  into  which  put 
each  piece  immediately  on  wringing  it  out  of  the  first  liquor     * 

8.  Repeat  the  process  of  washing  in  the  second  liquor,  care- 
fully observing  that  every  part  is  clean. 

9.  On  wringing  out  of  the  second  liquor,  immediately  plunge 
each  piece  into  cold  spring  water  for  rinsing. 

10.  On  wringing  each  piece  out  of  the  rinsing  water,  imme- 
diately hang  it  out,  and  let  it  dry  as  quickly  as  possible. 

11.  In  hanging  up,  put  any  thick  double  parts  next  the  line, 
letting  the  thinner  part  hang  down  and  blow  about.  When 
these  are  dry,  the  positions  may  be  changed,  and  the  thick 
parts  hung  downwards. 

12.  If,  through  unfavorable  weather,  or  any  other  circum- 
stance, the  drying  cannot  proceed  at  once,  the  things  had  better, 
remain  all  night  in  the  rinsing  water,  than  be  laid  about  damp. 
If  they  are  half-dry  out-of-doors,  when  taken  in  for  the  night  let 
them  be  hung  or  spread  in  a  room,  and  again  hung  out  early 
next  day.  If  th^e  is  no  chance  of  favorable  drying  abroad, 
they  should  be  quickly  dried  before  a  fire,  or  round  a  stove. 

13.  If  starching  is  required,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  made 
Btarch  may  be  stirred  into  the  rinsing  water. 


f 


52  MRS.  Hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

173.  How  to  wash  Printed  Dresses. — A  very  cool  lather  of 
white  soap,  of  the  best  quality,  should  be  used,  as  the  inferior 
soaps  contain  rosin,  and  other  pernicious  ingredients  most  de- 
structive to  colors.  Soda,  pearl-ash,  vinegar,  alum,  salt,  wash- 
ing-powder,  (fee,  although  they  may  not  injure  some  colors, 
should  never  be  used;  for  they  will  .most  certainly  destroy 
others.  Printed  dresses  should  not  be  washed  with  household 
or  body  linen,  or  put  into  scalding  water.  It  is  desirable  to 
wash  colors  with  a  light  hand,  so  as  not  to  subject  them  to  hard 
rubbing,  and  to  rinse  with  plenty  of  clean  cold  water,  and  to 
dry  in  the  open  air.  Claret,  chocolate,  purple,  lilac,  red,  pink, 
and  black,  are  the  most  permanent ;  the  cloth  for  these  colors 
being  prepared  in  a  peculiar  manner,  and  which  process  has  the 
effect  of  better  fixing  them  to  it.  Blue,  green,  drab,  ruby, 
crimson,  buff,  dahlia,  orange,  and  cinnamon,  as  they  do  not  ad- 
mit of  the  cloth  being  so  prepared,  of  course  require  more 
careful  treatment,  or  some  of  the  surface  color  may  possibly  on 
the  first  washing  scale  off  and  tinge  the  white,  especially  if  not 
well  rinsed ;  but  by  a  little  discretion  the  most  delicate  colors 
may  be  effectually  preserved. 

"  174.  To  wash  Chintz^  so  a^  to  preserve  its  Gloss  and  Beauty. 
— Take  two  pounds  of  rice  and  boil  it  in  two  gallons  of  water, 
till  soft ;  when  done,  pour  the  whole  into  a  tub ;  let  it  stand  till 
about  the  warmth  you  in  general  use  for  colored  linens ;  put 
the  chintz  in,  and  use  the  rice  instead  of  soap ;  wash  it  in  this, 
till  the  dirt  appears  to  be  out ;  then  boil  the  same  quantity  as 
above,  but  strain  the  rice  from  the  water,  and  mix  it  in  warm 
water.  Wash  it  in  this  till  quite  clean  ;  afterwards  rinse  it  in 
the  water  the  rice  was  boiled  in ;  this  will  answer  the  end  of 
starch,  and  no  dew  will  affect  it,  as  it  vyll  be  stiff  while  it  is 
worn.  If  a  gown,  it  must-  be  taken  to  pieces,  and  when  dried, 
hang  it  as  smooth  as  possible ;  after  dry,  rub  it  with  a  sleek 
stone,  but  use  no  iron. 


175.  To  protect  Children  from  Burning. — Add  one  ounce  of 
alum  to  the  last  water  used  in  rinsing  children's  dresses,  and 
they  will  be  rendered  uninflammable,  or  so  slightly  combustible 
that  they  would  take  fire  slowly,  if  at  all,  and  would  not  flame. 

176.  Composition  for  Washing  in  Sea- water, — Mix  a  strong 
solution  of  potash  with  an  equal  weight  of  pipe-clay,  and  work 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  63 

them  to  a  paste,  one  pound  of  which  will  soften  four  gallons  of 
sea-water. 


177.  To  bleach  a  Faded  Dress.— Wash  the  dress  in  hot  suds, 
boil  it  and  rinse  it,  then  dry  it  in  the  sun.  Should  it  not  be 
rendered  perfectly  w^hite,  lay  the  dress  in  the  sun  for  several 
days. 

178.  To  preserve  the  Color  of  a  Print  Dress. — Rip  the  skirt 
from  the  body,  and  wash  them  in  cold  rain  water  in  which  a 
handful  of  common  salt  has  been  thrown.  Do  not  expose  it  to 
the  sun  to  dry,  but  roll  it  tightly  in  a  coarse  cloth  until  dry 
enouorh  to  iron. 


179.  To  wash  White  Lace, — A  quarter  of  a  cake  of  white 
wax,  six  lumps  of  sugar,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  made  starch, 
to  be  mixed  with  a  quart  of  soft  water.  Tack  the  lace  very 
slightly  in  a  thin  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water,  then  let  it  lie  in  a 
strong  lather  for  one  day.  Change  the  water,  and  leave  it  m  a 
second  lather  all  night.  Put  the  above  materials  into  a  sauce- 
pan, boil  the  lace  in  it  for  ten  minutes,  then  throw  it  into  cold 
water^and  when  nearly  dry  iron  it. 


180.  Washing  Kid  Oloves. — Have  ready  a  little  new  milk 
in  one  saucer,  and  a  piece  of  brown  soap  in  another,  and  a 
clean  cloth  or  towel,  folded  three  or  four  times.  On  the  cloth, 
spread  out  the  glove  smooth  and  neat.  Take  a  piece  of  flannel, 
dip  it  in  the  milk,  then  rub  off  a  good  quantity  of  soap  to  th^ 
wetted  flannel,  and  commence  to  rub  the  glove  downwards  to 
wards  the  fingers,  holding  it  firmly  with  the  left  hand.  Con- 
tinue this  process  until  the  glove,  if  white,  looks  of  a  dingy 
yellow,  though  clean :  if  colored,  till  it  looks  dark  and  spoiled. 
Lay  it  to  dry,  and  the  operator  will  soon  be  grjg;ified  to  see 
that  her  old  gloves  look  nearly  new.  They  will  be  soft,  glossy, 
smooth,  shapely,  and  elastic.  Dark,  and  especially  black 
mourning  gloves,  should  be  of  the  very  best  and  high-priced. 


181.  To  iron  Shirt  Fronts  and  Dresses, — Shirt-fronts  are  most 
conveniently  ironed  upon  a  deal  board  about  12  inches  long 
and  8  wide,  covered  with  fine  flannel ;  to  be  placed  between  the 
back  and  front  of  the  shirt,  after  the  back  is  ironed.  The  skirts 
of  dresses  also  may  be  ironed  in   a  similar  manner,  using  a 


54  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

board  as  long  as  the  skirt,  26  inches  wide  at  one  end,  and  12 
inches  at  the  other.  The  board  should  be  covered  with  a  blan- 
ket,  and  rest  upon  a  thin  block  of  wood  at  each  end,  to  keep 
it  from  creasing  the  skirt  beneath  it. 

182.  To  clean  Hair  Brushes  and  Combs, — Sub-carbonate  of 
soda  or  potass,  sometimes  called  salt  of  tartar  or  salt  of  worm- 
wood, is  to  be  dissolved  in  boiling  water — two  heaped  tea- 
spoonfuls  will  be  sufficient  for  half  a  pint;  into  this  mixture  dip 
the  hairs  of  the  brush,  and  draw  the  comb  through  many  times. 
The  brush  and  comb,  with  the  help  of  this  solution,  will  quickly 
cleanse  each  other ;  dry  quickly  and  they  will  be  as  white  as 
new.  Observe  two  things  :  the  potass  must  be  kept  in  a  stop- 
per bottle,  or  it  will  soon  become  liquid ;  when  liquid  it  is  not 
injured  for  use,  but  if  left  in  paper  would  be  wasted ;  also  the 
mahogany  or  satin-wood  back  of  the  brush  must  be  kept  out 
of  the  solution,  as  it  is  apt  to  discolor  wood. 


183.  To  clean  Sponge, — Put  into  two  pints  of  hot  water 
about  three  cents  worth  of  Salts  of  lemon,  and  steep  the  sponge 
in  it.     After  it  is  clean,  rinse  it  in  clean  water. 

Or^  immerse  it  in  cold  buttermilk,  and  let  it  soalc  a  few 
hours.     Then  rinse  it  in  pure  water. 


184.  To  clean  Ermine  and  Minivar, — Take  a  piece  of  soft 
flannel,  dip  it  in  common  flour,  and  rub  the  fur  with  it,  being 
careful  to  rub  it  against  the  grain.  Shake  it  well  and  rub  again 
with  the  flannel  till  all  the  flour  is  out  of  it. 


185.  To  clean  Swansdown. — White  swansdown  may  be 
washed  in  soap  and  water ;  after  washiTig,  shake  it  out,  and 
when  the  down  is  somewhat  raised,  shake  it  before  a  clear  fire 
to  dry. 

186.  To  clean  Leather  Cases, — To  clean  hat  cases,  writing- 
desks,  &c.,  dissolve  in  warm  water  a  small  quantity  of  oxalic 
acid,  and  wash  the  articles  with  a  sponge  wet  in  the  solution. 
When  dry  they  will  look  almost  equal  to  new. 

187.  To  tahe  Stains  out  of  Linen, — Stains  caused  by  Acids 
can  be  removed  by  wetting  the  part,  and  laying  on  it  some  salt 
of  wormwood;  then  rub  it  without  diluting  "^it  with  more  water 


HOME    A^^D    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  55. 

Or,  let  the  cloth  imbibe  a  little  water  without  dipping,  and 
hold  the  part  over  a  lighted  match,  at  a  due  distance.  The 
spots  will  be  removed  by  the  sulphureous  gas. 

Or^  tie  up  in  the  stained  part  some  pearlash ;  then  scrape 
some  soap  into  cold  soft  water  to  make  a  lather,  and  boil  the 
linen  till  the  stain  disappears. 

188.  Stains  of  Wine,  Fruit,  (kc,  after  they  have  been  long  in 
the  Linen. — Rub  the  part  on  each  side  with  yellow  soap  ;  then 
lay  on  a  mixture  of  starch  in  cold  water  very  thick ;  rub  it  well 
in,  and  expose  the  linen  to  the  sun  and  air  till  the  stain  comes 
out.  If  not  removed  in  three  or  four  days,  rub  that  off  and 
renew  the  process.  When  dry  it  may  be  sprinkled  with  a  little 
water. 

Recent  Stains  of  Fruit  may  be  removed  by  holding  the  linen 
tightly  stretched  over  a  tub  and  pouring  hot  water  over  the 
part.  This  must  be  done  before  any  soap  has  been  applied 
to  it. 

Obs,  As  soon  as  a  stain  is  made  on  table-linen,  &c.,  rub  on 
it  common  table  salt  before  it  has  time  to  dry ;  the  salt  will 
keep  it  damp  till  the  cloth  is  washed,  when  the  stain  will  dis- 
appear ;  or  wash  the  stain  lightly  when  the  cloth  is  removed. 


189.  To  restore  Scorched  Linen, — Peel  and  slice  two  onions, 
and  extract  the  juice  by  squeezing  or  pounding.  Cut  up  half 
an  ounce  of  white  soap  and  two  ounces  of  fullers'  earth ;  mix 
with  them  the  onion  juice  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  this 
composition  well,  and  spread  it,  when  cool,  over  the  scorched 
part  of  the  linen,  leaving  it  to  dry  thereon.  Then  wash  out  the 
linen. 


190.  To  restore  Linen  that  has  long  been  Stained, — Rub  the 
stains  on  each  side  with  wet  brown  soap  ;  mix  some  starch  to 
a  thick  paste,  with  cold  water,  and  spread  it  over  the  soaped 
places ;  then  expose  the  linen  to  the  air.  If  the  stains  do  not 
disappear  in  three  or  four  days,  rub  off  the  mixture,  and  repeat 
the  process  with  fresh  soap  and  starch.  Then  dry  it,  wet  it 
with  cold  water,  and  wash  it. 


191.  Grease  or  Wax  S2:>ots. — Grease-spots  should  be  rubbed 
with  strong  pearlash  and  water.  Spots  of  wax  or  oil  paint 
should  be  rubbed  with  turpentine,  and  washed  with  soap  and 


56  MRS.  hale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

water :  or,  wax,  if  moistened  repeatedly  with  spirits  of  wine, 
may.  be  brushed  off.  Or,  dissolve  six  ounces  of  alum  in  half  a 
pint  of  water,  warm  it,  wash  the  stained  part  with  it,  and  leave 
it  to  dry. 

Or,  in  a  quart  of  warm  water,  dissolve  a  little  white  soap, 
and  one  ounce  of  pearlash ;  to  which  add  two  spoonsful  of  ox- 
gall, and  a  little  essence  of  lavender  or  bergaraot:  mix  the 
whole,  strain  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  bottle.  In  using  it,  put  a  small 
quantity  on  the  spot,  brush,  and  wash  it  with  warm  water,  so 
as  entirely  to  remove  the  liquor  applied,  which  might  injure 
the  cloth  if  allowed  to  remain. 


192.  Other  Stains. — Many  other  Stains  may  be  taken  out 
by  dipping  the  linen  in  sour  buttermilk,  and  drying  it  in  a  hot 
sun.  Then  wash  it  in  cold  water,  and  dry  it,  two  or  three  timeo 
a-day. 

193.  Ironmoulds, — Ironmoulds  should  be  wetted,  then  laid  on 
a  hot  water-plate,  and  a  little  essential  salt  of  lemons  put  on  the 
part.  If  the  linen  becomes  dry,  wet  it,  and  renew  the  process, 
observing  that  the  plate  is  kept  boiling  hot.  Much  of  the  pow- 
der sold  under  the  name  of  salt  of  lemons  is  a  spurious  prepa- 
ration ;  and  therefore  it  is  necessary  to  dip  the  linen  in  a  good 
deal  of  water,  and  wash  it  as  soon  as  the  stain  is  removed,  to 
prevent  the  part  from  being  worn  into  holes  by  the  acid.  Ink 
spots  can  be  removed  in  the  same  way. 


194.  Jq  take  Mildew  out  of  Linen, — Take  soap,  and  rub  it 
well ;  then  scrape  some  fine  chalk,  and  rub  that  also  in  the 
linen ;  lay  it  on  the  grass ;  as  it  dries  w^et  it  a  little,  and  it  will 
come  out  at  twice  doing.  ^ 


195.  Or,  mix  soft  soap  with  starch  powdered,  half  as  much 
salt  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  lay  it  on  the  part  on  both  si^es 
with  a  painter's  brush.  Let  it  lie  on  the  grass  day  and  night 
till  the  stain  comes  out. 


196.  To  discharge  all  Stains  which  are  not  Metallic- — Mix  two 

tea-spoonfuls  of  water  w'ith  one  of  spirit  of  salt ;   let  the  stain 

-  lie  in  it  for  one  or  two  minutes ;   then  nnse  the  article  in  cold 

water.     This  will    be  found  particularly  useful   in  removing 

stains  from  white  doily s. 


HOME   AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  57 

197.  Prepared  Ox-gall  for  taking  out  Spots,— 'EoW  together 
one  pint  of  ox-gall  .and  two  ounces  of  powdered  alum  ;  to  which 
add  two  ounces  of  common  salt ;  let  the  liquor  settle,  add  a 
few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  pour  it  off  into  a  bottle,  and 
cork  tightly. 

198.  Salt  of  Lemons, — Mix  one  ounce  of  salt  of  sorrel  in  very 
fine  powder,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar ;  this  is 
the  salt  sold  in  the  shops ;  but,  as  it  is  only  recommended  foi 
removing  ironmoulds  or  ink  spots,  it  will  be  better  to  use  only 
the  salt  of  sorrel. 


199.  To  bleach  Linen, — Mix  common  bleaching  powder,  in 
the  proportion  of  one  pound  to  a  gallon  of  water  ;  stir  it  occa- 
sionally for  three  days,  let  it  settle,  and  pour  it  off  clear. 
Then  make  a  ley  of  one  pound  of  soda  to  a  gallon  of  boiling 
soft  watcr(  in  which  soak  the  linen  for  twelve  hours,  and  boil 
it  half  an  hour ;  next,  soak  it  in  the  bleaching  liquor,  made  as 
above ;  and  lastly,  wash  it  in  the  usual  manner. 

Discolored  linen  or  muslin  may  be  restored,  by  putting  ^ 
portion  of  bleaching  liquor  into  the  tub  wherein  the  articles  are 
soaking. 


200.  Use  of  Potatoes  in  Bleaching, — This  method  of  bleaching 
consists  in  substituting  for  soap,  an  equal  quantity  of  potatoes 
three-parts  boiled.  The  linen  is  first  boiled  for  nearly  an  hour ; 
it  is  next  put  into  a  tub  of  boiling  water,  from  which  each  piece 
is  taken  separately,  and  rubbed  w^ith  the  potatoes,  as  with  soap. 
The  linen  is  then  boiled  with  the  potatoes  for  half  an  hour,  next 
taken  out,  rubbed,  and  rinsed  two  or  three  times  in  cold  soft 
water,  wrung,  and  hung  up  to  dry.  Kitchen  linen,  which  has 
mostly  the  smell  of  tallow,  loses  it  after  having  been  bleached 
by  this  process. 


201.  To  Rer)iove  fresh  Ink  Stains, — Let  one  person  hold  the 
part  that  is  spotted  between  his  two  hands  over  a  basin  and  rub 
it,  w^hile  another  pours  water  gradually  from  a  decanter  upon  it, 
and  let  a  whole  pitcher-full  be  used  if  necessary ;  or  if  the  ruf- 
fle, apron,  &c.  be  at  liberty,  let  it  be  dipped  into  a  basin  filled 
with  water,  and  there  squeezed  and  dipped  in  again,  taking  care 
to  change  the  water  every  two  or  three  squeezes.  If  the  ink  be 
spilled  on  a  green  table  carpet,  it  may  immediately  be  taken 


58  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million.  , 

out  with  a  tea-spoon  so  entirely,  that  scarcely  any  water  at  all 
<shall  be  wanted  afterwards,  provided  it  was  only  that  instant 
spilled,  as  the  down  of  the  cloth  prevents  the  immediate  soak- 
ing in  of  the  ink,  or, of  any  other  liquor  (except  oil)  ;  but  if  it 
have  lain  some  time,  be  the  time  ever  so  long,  provided  the 
place  be  still  wet,  by  pouring  on  it  fresh  clean  water,  by  little 
and  little  at  a  time,  and  gathering  it  up  again  each  time  with  a 
spoon,  pressing  hard  to  squeeze  it  out  of  the  cloth  into  the 
spoon,  you  will  at  last  bring  it  to  its  natural  color,  as  if  no 
,  such  accident  had  happened. 


202.  To  take  out  Spots  of  Ink. — As  soon  as  the  accident  hap- 
pens, wet  the  place  with  juice  of  sorrel  or  lemon,  or  with  vine- 
gar, and  the  best  hard  white  soap. 


203.  To  remove  Ink  Stains, — Get  a  pint  cup,  or  narrow-top- 
ped jug,  full  of  boiling  water;  place  the  stained  part  (of  the 
linen,  &c.)  on  the  top  of  the  cup ;  dip  it  in,  draw  it  tight  over 
the  top  of  the  cup,  and,  while  wet  and  hot,  with  your  finger 
rub  in  a  little  salt  of  sorrel.  The  acid  should  remain  on  the 
linen  for  half-an-hour  before  it  is  washed.  As  salt  of  sorrel  is 
a  powerful  poison,  the  paper  should  be  marked  poison,  and 
kept  carefully  locked  up,  when  not  in  use. 


204.  The  fumes  of  brimstone  useful  in  removing  Spots  or  Stains 
in  linen,  (he. — If  a  red  rose  be  held  in  the  fumes  of  a  brimstone 
match,  the  color  will  soon  begin  to  change,  aod,  at  length,  the 
flower  will  become  white.  By  the  same  process,  fruit-stains  or 
iron-moulds  may  be  removed  from  linen  or  cotton  cloths,  if  the 
spots  be  previously  moistened  with  water.  With  iron-moulds, 
weak  muriatic  acid  is  preferable,  assisted-by  heat ;  as  by  laying 
the  cloth  on  a  tea-pot  or  kettle,  filled  with  boiling  water. 

205.  To  remove  Stains  from  Black  Bombazine,  Crape  or 
Cloth. — Boil  a  large  handful  of  fig-leaves  in  two  quarts  of 
water  until  reduced  to  a  pint;  squeeze  the  leaves  quite  dry, 
and  put  the  liquor  into  a  bottle  for  use.  The  article  should  be 
rubbed  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  the  liquor.  The  word  poison 
should  be  written  on  the  bottle,  to  prevent  any  accident. 

206.  To  clean  Black  Satin. — Boil  three  pounds  of  potatoes 
to  a  pulp  in  a  quart  of  water  ;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  brush 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  60 

the  satin  with  it  on  a  board  or  table.  The  sathi  must  not  be 
wrung,  but  folded  down  in  cloths  for  three  hours,  and  then 
ironed  on  the  wrong  side. 

207.  To  restore  Color  taken  out  by  Acids, — Sal-volatile  or 
hartshorn  will  suffice  for  this  purpose.  It  may  be  dropped  on 
silk  without  doing  any  injury. 


208.  To  take  out  Spots  on  >S^7A:.— Rub  the  spots  with  spirit 
of  turpentine ;  this  spirit  exhaling,  carries  off  with  it  the  oil  that 
causes  the  spot. 


209.  To  extract  Grease  from  Silks, — Scrape  French  chalk,  put 
it  on  a  grease-spot,  and  hold  it  near  the  fire,  or  over  a  warm 
iron,  or  water-plate  filled  with  boiling  water.  The  grease  will 
melt,  and  the  French  chalk  absorb  it.  Brush  or  rub  it  off;  re- 
peat if  necessary. 


210.  Another  way, — To  remove  a  grease  spot  from  silk, 
scrape  some  French  chalk  on  the  wrong  side ;  let  it  remain 
some  time,  and  then  brush  off.  Magnesia  is  also  a  good  re- 
medy. 


211.  To  extract  Grease  from  Silks  or  Stuffs  {another  way), — 
Take  a  lump  of  magnesia,  and  rub  it  wet  over  the  spot.;  let  it 
dry  ;  then  brush  the  powder  off,  and  the  spot  will  disappear. 

Or,  take  a  visiting  or  other  card ;  separate  it,  and  rub  the 
spot  with  the  soft  internal  part,  and  it  will  disappear  without 
taking  the  gloss  off  the  silk. 

212.  To  take  Spots  out  of  Cloths,  Stuffs,  Silk,  Cotton,  and 
Linen, — Take  two  quarts  of  spring  water,  put  in  it  a  little  fine 
white  potash,  about  the  quantity  of  a  walnut,  and  a  lemon  cut 
in  slices;  mi:?^ these  well  together,  and  let  it  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours  in  the  sun ;  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  the  clear  liquid 
up  for  use.  This  water  takes  out  all  spots,  whether  pitch, 
grease,  or  oil,  as  well  in  hats,  as  cloths  and  stuffs,  silk  or  cotton, 
and  Jinen.  As  soon  as  the  spot  is  taken  out,  wash  the  place 
with  fair  water ;  lor  cloths  of  a  deep  color,  add  to  a  spoonful 
of  the  mixture  as  much  fair  water  as  to  weaken  it. 

Grease  spots  in  cloth  may  be  removed  by  using  soap  and 
water  with  a  tooth  or  nail  brush,  and  afterwards  wiping  off  the 


60  MES.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

lather  with  the  wet  corner  of  a  towel.     Essence  of  lemon,  oi 
pure  spirit  of  turpentine,  will  remove  pitch  from  cloth,  &c. 

In  woollen  cloth,  an  easier  method  is  to  scrape  off  the  hard 
tallow  with  the  edge  of  a  tea-spoon,  then  rub  the  part  briskly 
Avith  a  clean  woollen  rag,  shifting  the  rag  as  the  part  beconies 
dirty ;  or,  place  some  blotting  paper  on  the  spot,  and  press  it 
with  a  hot  iron,  occasionally  moving  the  paper. 


213.  To  clean  Silks  or  Merinoes,  dc, — Grate  two  or  three 
large  potatoes,  add  to  them  a  pint  of  cold  water,  let  them  stand 
a  short  time,  and  pour  off  the  liquid  clear,  or  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  Lay  the  silk  on  a  flat  sur- 
face, and  apply  the  liquid  with  a  clean  sponge,  till  the  dirt  is 
well  separated,  dip  each  piece  in  a  pail  of  clean  water,  and  hang 
up  to  dry  without  wringing.  Iron  whilst  damp  on  the  wrong 
side.  Should  the  silk  be  of  more  than  one  color,  it  is  desirable 
to  wet  a  small  piece  first,  lest  the  dress  should  be  spoiled,  by 
moisture  causing  the  colors  to  run ;  but  for  self-colored  silks, 
the  direction  is  an  excellent  one ;  and  satinettes,  even  of  light 
colors,  if  not  greased  or  stained,  make  up  again  nearly  equal  to 
new. 


214.  To  clean  Silks, — If  of  any  other  color  than  black,  wash 
them  in  a  hot  lather  of  soft  soap  and  water,  and  rmse  them  in 
plain  warm  water,  to  which  a  small  quantity  of  dye  may  be 
added,  according  to  the  color :  a  few  drops  of  vitriol  added  to 
the  water  will  freshen  crimson,  scarlet,  maroon,  or  bright  yel- 
low ;  lemon-juice  for  pink,  rose,  or  carnation  ;  pearl  ash  for  blue 
and  purple  ;  and  for  olive-green,  a  pinch  of  verdigris ;  but  acid 
must  not  be  used  for  fawn,  brown,  or  orange.  Then  squeeze 
the  liquid  from  the  silk,  roll  it  in  a  co^rs^  sheet,  and  wring  it : 
spread  it  out,  and  rub  it- on  the  wrong  side  with  gum-water, 
with  a  little  pearlash  in  it ;  dry  it  in  a  warm  room,  and  finish 
w^ith  calendering  or  mangling  it.  ^ 

Black  silk  should  be  sponged  with  hot  ox-gall  on  both  sides, 
then  rinsed,  and  dried  smooth  on  a  board.  Or,  spread  black 
plain  silks  upon  a  board,  soap  the  dirty  place,  and  brush  the 
silk  on  both  sides  with  a  fine  soap  lather ;  put  it  into  hot  water, 
rinse  it  through  cold  water,  and,  having  squeezed  and  dried  it, 
smooth  it  on  the  right  side  with  an  iron,  moderately  heated. 


215.  To  make  Old  Silk  look  as  well  as  New. — Unpick  the 
dress,  put  it  into  a  tub  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  let  it  re- 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  Cl 

main  an  hour ;  dip  it  up  and  down,  but  do  not  wring  it ;  hang 
it  up  to  drain.     Iron  it  very  damp,  and  it  will  look  well. 

216.  To  clean  Silks. — A  quarter-pound  of  soft  soap,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  brandy,  a  pint  of  gin.  Mix  all  well  together.  With 
a  sponge  or  flannel  spread  the  mixture  on  each  side  of  the  silk 
without  creasing  it.  Wash  it  in  two  or  three  pails  of  cold 
water,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side  when  rather  wet. 


217.  To  remove  Stains  from  Silks. — Stains  produced  by  vin- 
egar, lemon-juice,  oil  of  vitriol,  or  other  sharp  corrosives,  may 
often  be  removed  from  silks  by  mixing  a  little  pearlash  with 
soap-lather  and  passing  the  silk  through  them.  Spirits  of  harts- 
horn will  also  often  restore  the  color. 


218.  To  dip  Rusty  Black  Silk, — Boil  logwood  and  water 
half  an  hour,  in  which  simmer  the  silk  for  the  same  time ;  then 
take  it  out,  and  put  into  the  dye  a  little  blue  vitriol,  or  green 
copperas;  cool  it,  and  simmer  the  silk  in  it  for  half  an  hour. 
Or,  boil  a  handful  of  fig-leaves  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  it 
be  reduced  to  one  pint ;  squeeze  the  leaves,  and  bottle  the  li- 
quor for  use.     When  wanted,  sponge  the  silk  with  it. 

The  word  Poison  should  be  written  on  the  bottle. 


219.  Black  Reviver. -^Xi^on  two  ounces  of  powdered  logwopd, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  green  copperas,  pour  three  pints  of  boiling 
water :  let  it  stand  till  cold,  when  strain  for  use,  by  sponging 
the  faded  stuff  with  it. 

To  revive  black  cloth,  boil  it  with  logwood  in  water  for  half 
an  hour,  the  cloth  having  been  previously  cleaned,  dipped  in 
warm  water,  and  squeezed  dry ;  next,  take  out  the  cloth,  add  a 
small  piece  of  green  copperas,  and  IdoII  it  another  half  hour ; 
then  hang  it  in  the  air  an  hour  or  two,  rinse  it  twice  or  thrice 
in  cold  water,  dry  it,  and  finish  it  with  a  soft  brush,  over  which 
two  or  three  drops  of  olive  oil  have  been  rubbed. 


220.  White  Satin, — Stone  blue  and  flannel  will  make  white 
satin  look  nearly  new,  especially  if  rubbed  afterwards  with 
crumbs  of  bread. 


221.  Blond  Lace. — When  blond  lace  gets  tumbled,  breathings 
upon  it,  and  afterwards  shaking  it,  will  be  found  to  answer  the 


62  MRS.  Hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

purpose  of  an  iron,  without  chance  of  making  the  lace  look  yel- 
low, as  it  probably  would  be  by  the  use  of  an  iron.  There  is 
no  necessity  for  unpicking  the  lace. 

222.  To  raise  the  Surface  or  Pile  of  Velvet  when  pressed  down. 
— Warm  a  smoothing-iron  moderately,  and  cover  it  with  a  wet 
cloth,  and  hold  it  under  the  velvet ;  the  vapor  arising  from  the 
heated  cloth  will  raise  the  pile  of  the  velvet,  with  the  assistance 
of  a  rush  whisk. 


223.  To  remove  Grease  or  Oil  Paint  from  Cloth, — Moisten 
them  with  a  few  drops  of  concentrated  solution  of  subcarbonate 
of  potash ;  rub  the  spot  between  the  fingers,  and  then  wash  the 
?DOt  with  a  little  warm  water. 


224.  Another  wqty, — To  remove  oil  paint,  rub  ^he  part  with  a 
bit  of  flannel  dipped  in  spirits  of  wine  or  turpentine. 

225. — Spots  from  Woollen  Cloths, — Fullers'  earth,  or  tobac- 
co pipe-clay,  being  put  wet  on  an  oil  spot,  absorbs  the  oil  as 
the  water  evaporates,  and  leaves  the  vegetable  or  animal  fibres 
of  cloth  clean,  on  being  beaten  or  brushed  out.  When  the  spot 
is  occasioned  by  tallow  or  wax,  it  is  necessary  to  heat  the  part 
cautiously  by  an  iron  or  the  fire,  while  the  cloth  is  drying.  In 
some  kinds  of  goods,  blotting  paper,  bran,  or  raw  starch,  may 
be  used  with  advantage. 

226.  To  clean  a  White  or  Drab  Coat. — If  the  coat  be  much 
soiled,  brush  well  into  the  cloth,  the  way  of  the  nap  some  of 
the  following :  mix  pounded  pipe-clay  and  whiting,  some  ful- 
lers' earth,  and  a  little  stone  blue  dissolved  in  vinegar  enough 
to  form  the  whole  into  a  paste.  When  the  coat  is  quite  dry, 
rub  it  well,  beat  it  to  get  out  the  dust,  and  brush  it  well. 


227.  To  clean  Cashmere  Stuff, — If  common  soap  be  employed, 
these  valuable  fabrics  will  be  injured,  and  rendered  less  pliant 
and  velvety  than  before.  The  proper  method  is  to  use  a  soapy 
root  common  in  Russia  and  the  East,  in  the  Greek  islands,  and 
in  Italy.  Its  original  name  is  ishkar,  and  it  afibrds  an  ash- 
colored  powder,  which,  mixed  with  water  into  a  paste,  will  free 
the  stuff*  frrom  any  greasy  stains,  and  leave  them  the  yellow 
tint  so  much  prized. 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  ^03 

228.  To  make  Portable  Balls  foi'  removing  S2)otsfrom  Clothes 
in  general. — Take  fullers'-earth  perfectly  dried,  so  that  it  crum- 
bles into  powder,  moisten  it  with  the  clear  juice  of  lemons,  and 
add  a  small  quantity  of  pure  pearl-ashes ;  then  work  and  knead 
the  whole  carefully  together,  till  it  acquires  the  consistence  of 
a  thick  elastic  paste ;  form  it  into  convenient  small  balls,  and 
expose  them  to  the  heat  of  the  sun,  in  which  they  ought  to  be 
completely  dried.  In  this  state  they  are  fit  for  use  in  the  man- 
ner following : — First,  moisten  the  spot  on  your  clothes  with 
water,  then  rub  it  with  the  ball  just  described,  and  suffer  it  again 
to  dry  in  the  sun  :  after  having  washed  the  spot  with  pure  water, 
it  will  entirely  disappear, 

229.  To  make  Breeches  Balls, — Mix  half  a  pound  of  Bath 
brick  in  fine  powder,  one  pound  of  pipe-clay,  two  ounces  of 
pumice-stone  in  fine  powder,  and  three  ounces  of  ox-gall;  color 
the  mixture  with  yellow  ochre,  umber,  or  Irish  slate,  to  the 
desired  shade,  and  shape  into  balls. 

230,  Scouring  Drops, — Mix  with  one  ounce  of  pyroligneous 
ether,  three  drachms  of  essence  of  lemon.  These  will  remove 
oil  or  grease  from  woollen  cloth,  silk,  &;c.,  by  rubbing  the  spot 
with  a  piece  of  the  same  article,  moistened  with  the  drops. 

231,  To  take  out  Wax  or  Spermaceti  from  (7/ojfA.— Hold  a  red- 
hot  iron  steadily  within  about  an  inch  of  the  cloth,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  the  wax  will  evaporate ;  then  rub  the  cloth  with  whitish 
paper,  to  remove  any  ipark  that. may  remain. 


232.  To  take  Wax  out  of  Velvet  of  all  Colors  except  Crimson, 
— ^Take  a  crummy  wheaten  loaf,  cut  it  in  two,  toast  it  before 
the  fire,  and,  while  very  hot,  apply  it  to  the  part  spotted  with 
wax.  Then  apply  another  piece  of  toasted  bread  hot  as  before, 
and  continue  the  application  till  the  wax  is  entirely  taken  out, 

233.  For  taking  Or  ease  out  of  the  Leaves  of  Books, — Fold  up, 
in  two  small  bags  made  of  fine  open  muslin,  some  ashes  of 
burnt  bones,  finely  powdered,  or  of  calcined  hartshorn,  which 
is  always  ready  prepared  at  the  shops  of  the  druggists.  Lay 
the  bags  of  nmslin  containing  the  powder,  one  on  each  side 
of  the  greasy  leaf;  and,  having  heated  a  pair  of  fire-tongs,  or 
hair-dresser's  pinching-tongs,  of  q>  moderate  warmth,  press  with 


MRS.    HALE's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

them  the  two  bags  against  the  greasy  spot,  and  hold  them  some 
time  in  that  situation.     Repeat  the  process,  if  necessary. 

When  the  irons  cannot  be  conveniently  used,  the  powder 
may  be  heated  over  the  fire,  in  a  clean  earthen  vessel;  and, 
whilst  hot,  applied,  without  any  muslins,  on  each  side  of  the 
grease  spot,  and  a  weight  laid  on  it  to  assist  its  effect. 


234.  To  remove  Spots  of  Grease  from  Paper. — Take  an  equal 
quantity  of  roach  alum,  burnt,  and  flour  of  brimstone,  finely 
powdered  together ;  wet  the  paper  a  little,  and  put  a  small 
quantity  of  the  powder  on  the  place,  rubbing  it  gently  with 
your  finger,  and  the  spot  will  disappear 

235.  To  discharge  Grease  from  Leather, — Apply  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  the  spot,  and  dry  it  in  the  ^un ;  or,  mix  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  spirit  of  turpentine,  half  an  ounce  of  mealy 
potatoes,  and  some  of  the  best  Durham  mustard.  Apply  this 
mixture  to  the  spot,  and  rub  it  off  when  dry.  A  little  vinegar 
added,  renders  it  more  efficacious. 


236.  For  cleaning  light  Kid  Gloves, — If  the  gloves  are  not 
so  much  soiled  as  to  require  wetting,  they  may  be  cleaned 
thus : — Scrape  fine  as  much  as  a  tea-spoonful  of  IVench  chalk. 
Put  on  the  gloves  as  for  wear,  taking  care  that  the  hands  be 
not  only  clean,  but  cool  and  dry.  Put  some  of  the  powdered 
chalk  into  the  palm  of  one  glove,  and  rub  the  hands  and  fingers 
together,  just  as  if  the  chalk  were  soap  employed  in  washing 
the  hands.  In  this  way  rub  in  all  the  chalk.  Then  take  off 
the  gloves,  without  shaking  them,  and  lay  them  aside  for  an 
hour  or  two,  or  a  night,  if  it  suit.  Again  put  them  on,  and 
clap  the  hands  together  till  all  the  chalk  ts  shaken  out.  fullers' 
earth,  powdered  and  sifte'd,  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner 
as  French  chalk,  and  will  answer  nearly  as  well.  Or,  gloves 
slightly  soiled,  may  be  cleaned  by  rubbing  with  a  very  clean 
and  dry  bit  of  India-rubber.  White  kid  gloves,  or  very  light 
stone-color,  or  lilac,  (not  darker  than  what  is  called  a  French 
white,)  may  be  stained  of  a  bright  and  delicate  yellow,  jusl 
the  color  of  cowslips,  by  rubbing  them  with  the  petals  of  tho 
common  white  rose.  The  roses  must  be  fresh  gathered  for 
this  purpose ;  and  the  best  method  of  applying  the  leaves,  is 
by  putting  the  glove  on  its 'proper  hand,  and  then  rubbing  i 
not  convenient  to  do  the  whole  at  one  time,  the  effect  is  no 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  35 

injured  by  laying  them  aside,  and  taking  up  again.  When 
done,  they  look  quite  eXiual  to  new,  and  keep  clean  longer  than 
gloves  of  the  same  color  stained  in  the  ordinary  way. 


237.  Another  way  to  clean  Kid  Gloves, — First  see  that  your 
hands  are  clean;  then  put  on  the  gloves  and  wash  them,  as 
though  you  were  washing  your  hands,  in  a  basin  of  turpentine. 
Burning  fluid  will  do  equally  well.  Then  hang  them  up  in  a 
warm  place,  or  where  there  is  a  good  current  of  air,  which  will 
carry  off  all  smell  of  turpentine.  This  method  was  brought 
from  Paris,  and  thousands  of  dollars  have  been  made  by  it. 
The  spirits  of  hartshorn  may  be  substituted  for  the  turpentine. 


238.  Washing  Gloves. — If  the  gloves  are  so  much  soiled  as 
to  require  washing,  the  best  application  is  a  strong  lather  made 
of  curd  soap  with  new  milk  ;  or  w^ater  will  do.  A  very  small 
quantity  of  liquid  will  suffice.  Before  wetting  the  glove,  run 
a  strong  thread  through  the  opposite  sides,  close  to  the  wrist 
binding.  Leave  it  about  a  quarter  of  a  yard  long,  and  make 
a  large  knot  at  each  end.  This  is  to  form  a  loop  or  handle 
by  which  to  hang  up  the  glove  to  dry,  and  hold  it  open.  Hav- 
ing prepared  the  lather,  put  one  glove  on  the  hand,  and  apply 
the  lather  by  means  of  a  shaving  brush  or  a  piece  of  fine  flannel, 
carrying  the  strokes  downwards — that  is,  from  the  wrist  or  arm 
to  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Continue  this  process  till  the  dirt 
disappears,  though  the  glove  appears  of  a  dingy,  ilMooking 
color.  Then  take  a  clean  soft  towel,  and  dab  it  till  the  soap 
is  removed.  Take  off'  the  glove,  blow  into  it  to  open  all  the 
fingers,  and,  l)y  means  of  the  aforesaid  loop,  hang  it  to  dry 
in  a  shady  but  airy  place.  The  loop  should  be  fixed  to  two 
pegs,  or  by  two  pegs  or  strings,  fastened  to  a  line  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  keep  the  sides  of  the  glove  apart  while  drying. 
When  dry,  they  will  have  regained  their  original  color,  and 
be  smooth,  glossy,  soft,  and  shapable.  Or,  the  gloves  when 
cleaned  as  above,  may  be  laid  to  dry  on  several  folds  of  clean 
linen  above  and  below.  Limerick  gloves  should  be  washed 
clean  with  a  strong  lather  of  soap  and  water,  applied  with  a 
brush  iis  above.  The  lather  must  not  be  warnier  than  new 
milk.  When  dry  from  the  lather,  apply  a  solution  of  saffron, 
stronger  or  weaker,  according  to  the  color  desired.  A  very 
small  quantity  of  saffron  will  suffice.  Pour  boiling  water  to  it, 
and  let  it  steep  at  least  twelve  hours  before  using.  Those  who 
5 


66  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

are  frequently  cleaning  this  kind  of  gloves,  may  steep  a  drachm 
of  saffron  in  half  a-pint  of  boiling  water,  and  when  cold,  put  the 
whole  into  a  bottle,  without  straining.  Cork  it  close,  and  it 
will  keep  a  long  time  for  use  as  required. 


239.  To  clean  Straw  Bonnets. — Put  a  chafing-dish,  with  some 
lighted  charcoal,  into  a  close  room  or  large  box ;  then  strew 
on  the  coals  an  ounce  or  two  of  powdered  brimstone,  and  let 
the  bonnets  hang  in  the  room  or  box  for  some  hours,  when 
they  remain  to  be  blocked. 


240.  To  bleach  Straw.  Hats^  dc. — Straw  hats  and  bonnets 
are  bleached  by  putting  them,  previously  washed  in  pure  water, 
into  a  box  with  burning  sulphur ;  the  fumes  which  arise,  unite 
with  the  water  on  the  bonnets,  and  the  sulphurous  acid  thus 
formed,  bleaches  them. 


241.  Method  of  Bleaching  Straw, — Dip  the  straw  in  a  solution 
of  oxygenated  muriatic  acid,  saturated  wnth  potash.  (Oxyge- 
nated muriate  of  lime  is  much  cheaper.)  The  straw  is  thus 
rendered  very  white,  and  its  flexibility  is  increased. 

242.  Varnish  for  Straw  or  Chip  Hats, — Powder  half-an- 
ounce  of  black  sealing-wax,  put  it  into  a  bottle  with  two  ounces 
of  spirits  of  wine,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place.  Lay  it  on  warm 
with  a  soft  hair-brush,  before  the  fire  or  sun. 


243.  Straw  Bonnets, — If  a  straw  bonnet  is  not  worth  the 
expense  of  properly  cleaning,  it  may  be  greatly  improved  both 
in  comfort  and  appearance,  by  washing  it  with  soap  and  water, 
applied  by  means  of  a  bit  of  flannel  or  sponge.  Afterwards 
rinse  with  clean  water,  and  dry  quickly  in  the  air.  When  dry, 
wash  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  finely  beaten.  The  wire 
had  better  be  removed  before  washing,  and  put  on  afresh. 
There  is  no  great  art  in  reducing  a  straw  bonnet  for  a  child. 
Take  off  all  the  ribs  of  straw  that  form  a  sort  of  border  by  going 
round  the  edge ;  as  many  also  of  the  straight  ribs  as  will  leave 
the  front  nearly  of  the  depth  required.  From  the  remaining 
front  ribs  cut  off  a  little  at  each  end;  fasten  the  ends  securely, 
and  again  set  on  the  border  ribs.  Unpick  the  sewing  of  the 
head-piece,  till  two,  three,  or  more  of  the  top  rounds  are  taken 
ofl*,  so  as  to  bring  it  to  the  size  required.     Then  sew  again  as 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  67 

many  as  will  bring  it  to  a  proper  depth.  It  is  not  intended  to 
say,  that  a  person  who  never  learned  the  art  of  straw  bonnet- 
making,  and  has  not  the  proper  blocks,  &c.,  will  do  it  as  well 
as  one  who  has;  but  any  notionable  needle-woman  may  do  it, 
so  as  to  look  much  better  than  a  large  bonnet  on  the  small  head 
of  a  child.  A  bonnet-shape  of  pasteboard  or  buckram  may  be 
renewed  by  laying  it  between  two  sheets  of  damp  paper,  and 
ironing  with  a  hot  iron.  The  wire  must  be  previously  removed 
and  afterwards  put  on  afresh.  To  clean  silk  and  ribbons,  wash 
in  cold  rain  water  with  a  very  little  soap.  Avoid  squeezing 
and  wringing.  If  very  dirty,  two  waters  may  be  requisite ;  the 
second  may  be  slightly  blued,  unless  the  color  of  the  silk  for- 
bids it  (as  yellow  or  red).  Spread  on  a  clean  towel,  and 
while  damp,  iron  with  a  piece  of  clean  paper  placed  between 
the  silk  or  ribbon  and  the  iron. 


244.  Paste, — Take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  it 
into  a  half  pint  of  cold  water  until  the  lumps  are  all  broken, 
then  pour  this  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  while  doing 
so ;  afterwards  let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  take  off. 


245.  Superior  Paste — Mix  flour  and  water,  with  a  little 
brown  sugar,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  corrosive  sublimate 
in  powder,  and  boil  it  until  sufficiently  thick  and  smooth.  The 
sugar  will  keep  the  paste  flexible,  and  prevent  it  scaling  off* 
from  smooth  surfaces,  and  the  corrosive  sublimate  will  check 
its  fermentation  :  a  drop  or  two  of  oil  of  anise-seed,  lavender,  or 
bergamot  will  prevent  the  paste  turning  mouldy. 

246.  Boohhinders''  Paste. — Mix  wheaten  flour  first  in  cold 
water,  then  boil  it  till  it  be  of  a  glutinous  consistence ;  this 
method  makes  common  paste.  Mix  2^  fourth^  fifth ^  or  sixth  of 
the  weight  of  the  flour  of  powdered  alum,  and  if  required 
stronger,  add  a  little  powdered  resin. 


247.  Rice  Glue. — Mix  rice  flour  smoothly  with  cold  water, 
and  simmer  it  over  a  slow  fire,  when  it  will  form  a  delicate  and 
durable  cement,  not  only  answering  all  the  purposes  of  com- 
mon paste,  but  well  adapted  i^x  joining  paper  and  card-board 
ornamental  work. 


68  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

248.  A  most  excellent  Glue, — Beat  an  ounce  of  isinglass  to 
shreds :  dissolve  it  gradually  in  a  pint  of  brandy,  by  means  of 
gentle  heat,  and  then  strain  the  solution  through  a  piece  of  fine 
muslin.  The  glue  thus  obtained  should  be  kept  in  glass  closely 
stopped.  When  required  for  use,  it  should  be  dissolved  with 
moderate  heat,  when  it  will  appear  thin,  transparent,  and 
almost  limpid.  When  applied  in  the  manner  of  common  glue, 
its  effect  is  so  powerful  as  to  join  together  the  parts  of  wood 
stronger  than  the  wood  itself  is  united.  This  glue  dries  into  a 
very  strong,  tough,  and  transparent  substance,  not  easily  dam- 
aged by  anything  but  aqueous  moisture,  which  renders  it  unfit 
for  any  use  where  it  would  be  much  exposed  to  wet  or 
damp  air. 

249.  Parchment  Glue. — Take  one  pound  of  parchment,  and 
boil  it  in  six  quarts  of  water  till  the  quantity  be  reduced  to 
one,  then  strain  off  the  dregs,  and  boil  it  again  till  it  be  of  the 
consistence  of  glue. 

The  same  may  be  done  with  glovers'  cuttings  of  leather, 
which  make  a  colorless  glue,  if  not  burnt  in  the  evaporation  of 
the  water. 


250.  To  make  Lip  Glue,  for  joining  Paper,  Silk,  or  thin 
Leather,  <&c. — Take  of  isinglass  and  parchment  glues,  of  each 
one  ounce;  sugar-candy  and gum-tragacanth,  each  two  drachms; 
add  to  them  an  ounce  of  water,  and  boil  the  whole  together  till 
the  mixture,  when  cold,  is  of  the  consistence  of  glue  ;  then  form 
the  same  into  small  rolls,  or  any  other  figure  that  may  be  most 
convenient,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

This  glue  may  be  wet  with  the  tongue,  and  rubbed  on  the 
edges  of  the  paper,  silk,  or  leather,  that  are  to  be  joined ;  and 
on  being  laid  together,  and  suffered  to  dry,  they  will  be  united 
as  firmly  as  any  other  part  of  the  substance. 


251.  Liquid  Glue, — Pour  naphtha  upon  shellac  until  of  a 
creamy  consistence,  and  keep  it  closely  corked.  This  glue  will 
unite  iron,  wood,  glass,  &c.  It  is  water-proof,  and  dries 
quickly. 


252.  Glue  to  hold  against  Fire  or  Water. — Mix  a  handftrl  of 
quick-lime  in  four  ounces  of  linseed-oil,  boil  them  to  a  good 


HOME    AND   ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  69 

thickness,  then  spread  it  on  tin  plates  in  the  shade,  and  it  will 
become  exceedingly  hard ;  but  may  be  easily  dissolved  over 
the  fire,  as  glue. 


253.  To  mend  China, — Mix  together  equal  parts  of  fine  glue, 
white  of  eggs,  and  white  of  lead,  and  with  it  anoint  the  edges 
of  the  article  to  be  mended ;  press  them  together,  and  when 
hard  and  dry  scrape  off  as  much  of  the  cement  as  sticks  about 
the  joint.  The  juice  of  garlic  is  another  good  cement,  and 
leaves  no  mark  where  it  has  been  used. 


254.  Cement  and  Ground  Glass  Imitation. — In  half-a-pint 
spirits  of  wine  steep  one  ounce  of  isinglass  twenty-four  hours, 
then  dissolve  it  over  a  slow  fire,  keeping  the  vessel  covered 
that  the  spirit  may  not  evaporate  (for  this  purpose  a  double 
saucepan  should  be  used,  the  outer  one  containing  water,  after 
the  manner  of  a  glue-|^;  or  the  solution  may  be  made  in  af^jar 
with  a  lid,  tied  over  also  with  bladder,  and  placed  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  water — the  water  should  surround  the  jar  to  the  height 
of  two  inches  or  more,  but  not  so  high  as  to  float  it).  When 
the  isinglass  is  completely  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of  garlic, 
obtained  by  pounding  in  a  mortar  six  cloves  of  the  root,  and 
straining  through  linen.  Mix  well,  and  cork  close  for  a  siiort 
time.     The  mixture  will  then  cement  either  glass  or  crystal. 


Cement  to  resist  Fire  and  Water, — Haifa-pint  each  of  vinegar 
and  milk,  simmer  them  together  till  the  curd  separates.  Strain, 
and  with  the  whey  mix  the  whites  of  ^\q  eggs  well  beaten  up. 
The  mixture  of  these  two  substances  being  complete,  add  sifted 
quick-lime,  and  make  the  whole  into  the  consistence  of  putty. 
Let  it  be  carefully  applied — that  is,  to  lay  it  on  every  part  of 
the  broken  edges,  and  to  make  the  edges  fit  exactly ;  as  soon  as 
it  is  perfectly  dry,  it  will  be  found  to  resist  both  heat  and  mois- 
ture. Whatever  the  article  was  originally  calculated  to  bear,  it 
is  again  fitted  to  bear  as  much  as  if  it  had  never  been  broken. 


255.  To  imitate  Ground  Glass, — Rub  the  glass  over  with  a 
lump  of  glaziers'  putty,  carefully  and  uniformly  until  the  sur- 
face  is  equally  covered.  This  is  an  excellent  imitation  of 
ground  glass,  and  is  not  injured  by  rain  or  damp.  It  is  useful 
for  kitchen  windows,  &c. 


to  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  thb  million. 

256.  To  cement  Broken  China, — Mix  some  oyster-shell  pow- 
der  with  the  white  of  a  fresh  ^gg^  to  the  thickness  of  white  paint, 
lay  it  on  thick  at  the  two  edges  and  join  them  as  exact  and 
quick  as  possible,  then  put  it  before  the  fire  till  the  china  is 
quite  hot,  and  it  will  cement  in  about  two  minutes.  Pour 
boiling  w^ater  into  it  directly,  wipe  it  dry,  scrape  it  clean  on 
both  sides  with  a  penknife,  and  it  will  appear  only  as  a  crack. 
Mix  no  more  than  you  can  use  for  one  or  two  things  at  a  time ; 
for  if  the  cement  grows  hard,  it  will  be  spoiled.  The  powder 
may  be  bought  at  the  apothecaries' ;  but  it  is  best  prepared  at 
home,  which  is  done  as  follows :— Choose  a  large,  deep  oyster- 
shell  ;  put  it  in  the  middle  of  a  clear  fire  till  red-hot,  then  take 
it  out  and  scrape  away  the  black  parts  ;  pound  the  rest  in  a  mor- 
tar as  fine  as  possible ;  sift  and  beat  it  a  second  time,  till  quite 
smooth  and  fine. 


257.  Ohs, — In  cementing  china  and  glass,  first  heat  the  por- 
tion^, and  when  the  cement  is  applied,  pf^ss  them  closely  toge- 
ther, as  the  thinner  the  cement  is,  the  more  firmly  it  holds. 

258.  To  cement  Broken  China  or  Glass, — Beat  lime  to  the 
finest  powder,  and  sift  it  through  fine  muslin  ;  then  tie  some 
into  a  thin  muslin ;  put  on  the  edges  of  the  broken  china  some 
white  of  egg  ;  dust  some  lime  quickly  on  the  same,  and  unite 
them  exactly. 


259.  Chinese  method  of  mending  China, — Take  a  piece  of 
flint-glass,  beat  it  to  a  fine  powder,  and  grind  it  well  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  and  it  joins  china  without  riveting,  so  that  no 
art  can  break  it  in  the  same  place.  You  are  to  observe,  that 
the  composition  is  to  be  ground  extremely  fine. 

260.  Improved  Corks  for  preserving  Wine  or  Chemical  Li-. 
quors. — Melt  together  two  parts  of  white  wax  and  one  part 
of  beef  suet ;  dip  your  corks  in  this  mixture,  and  immediately 
dry  them  in  a  stove  upon  an  iron  plate ;  repeat  this  operation 
twice,  and  the  corks  thus  prepared  will  preserve  any  liquor 
well  without  imparting  any  ill-flavor  thereto. 

261.  Bottle  Cement, — Common  red  and  black  sealing-wax,  of 
each  half-a-pound  ;  bees'- wax,  quarter  of  an  ounce.  Melt  them 
in  an  earthen  pipkin  or  brass  kettle.     The  former  is  preferable, 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  71 

because  the  cement  may  be  kept  in  it,  and  again  melted  when- 
ever  it  is  wanted  for  use.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  froth; 
and  seems  likely  to  boil  over,  stir  with  a  tallow  candle,  which 
will  settle  the  froth.  As  soon  as  the  whole  is  melted,  it  is 
ready  for  use. 


262.  Bottle  Cement, — Melt  in  an  iron  ladle  some  rosin,  and  a 
quarter  as  much  bees'- wax ;  add  a  little  Venetian  red,  stir  with 
a  piece  of  candle,  and,  when  smoothly  melted,  dip  in  the  top 
of  the  bottles,  so  as  completely  to  cover  them.  In  making  this 
cement,  be  careful  not  to  leave  it  a  moment  while  it  is  on  the 
fire. 


263.  Blood  Cement, — Blood  Cement,  for  repairing  copper 
boilers,  &;c.,  is  made  by  pounded  quick-lime  and  ox-blood 
mixed  together  ;  it  must  be  applied  fresh  made,  as  it  soon  be- 
comes so  hard  as  to  be  unfit  for  use. 


264.  Diamond  Cefnent, — Diamond  Cement,  for  glass  or 
china,  is  made  by  dissolving  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass 
in  water,  by  boiling  it  to  the  consistence  of  cream.  Add  a 
table-spoonful  of  spirits  of  wine.     Use  warm. 

265.  Cement  for  attaching  Metal  to  Glass  or  Porcelain, — 
Take  two  ounces  of  a  thick  solution  of  glue,  and  mix  w4th  one 
ounce  of  linseed  oil  varnish,  or  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
Venice  turpentine.  Boil  together,  agitating  them  until  thor- 
oughly mixed.  The  pieces  to  be  cemented  should  be  left 
untouched,  after  having  been  united,  for  forty-eight  or  sixty 
hours. 


266.  To  mend  Tortoise- Shell, — To  mend  tortoise-shell,  bring 
the  edges  of  the  pieces  to  fit  each  other,  observing  to  give  the 
same  inclination  of  grain  to  each ;  then  secure  them  in  a  piece 
of  paper,  and  place  them  between  hot  irons  or  pincers ;  apply 
pressure,  and  let  them  cool.  Take  care  that  the  heat  is  not  too 
great,  or  it  will  burn  the  shell. 

267.  To  clean  Gold  Chains,  dc, — Make  a  lather  of  soap  and 
water;  boil  the  chain  in  it  for  a  few  minutes,  and  immediately  on 
taking  it  out,  lay  it  in  magnesia  powder  which  has  been  heated 
by  the  fire;  when  dry,  rub  it  with  flannel;  if  embossed,  use  a 
brush. 


'J'2  MRS.    H ale's    receipts    FOR    THB    MELLION. 

Or;— Wash  it  well  in  soap  and  water,  and  put  it  while  wet 
into  a  bag  with  some  fi'esh,  clean  bran  ;  shake  it  well,  and  in  a 
few  minutes  it  will  be  found  perfectly  clean. 

268.  To  restore  Pearls. —  Soak  them  in  hot  water  in  which 
bran  has  been  boiled,  with  a  little  salt  of  tartar  and  alum,  and 
rub  them  gently  between  the  hands ;  rinse  them  in  lukewarm 
water,  and  lay  them  out  to  dry. 

To  preserve  the  color  of  pearls,  keep  them  in  dryjcommon 
magnesia,  instead  of  the  cotton-wool  used  in  jewel-cases,  and 
they  will  never  lose  their  brilliance. 

269.  To  clean  Gold  or  Silver  Lace. — Rub  it  gently  with  cot- 
ton wool,  or  a  soft  brush  dipped  in  spirits  of  wine,  taking  care 
not  to  injure  the  silk  beneath. 

270.  To  clean  Gold  and  Silver  Lace. — Sew  the  lace  in  linen 
cloth,  and  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  two  ounces  of  soap ; 
and  then  wash  the  lace  in  water. 


271.  To  improve  Gilding. — Mix  one  gill  of  wat^r,  two  ounces 
of  purified  nitre,  one  ounce  of  alum  and  one  ounce  of  common 
salt.  Lay  this  over  gilt  articles  with  a  brush,  and  their  color 
will  be  m^ich  improved. 


272.  laconihustihle  Varnish  for  Wood. — Equal  parts  of  alum 
and  isinglass,  dissolved  and  mixed,  applied  to  wood,  prevents  it 
from  burning.  Liquids  can  be  boiled  in  a  wooden  vessel  on  a 
common  fire,  if  this  varnish  be  applied  to  it.     The  wood  chars 


sometimes,  but  does  not  flame. 


273.  Cement  for  Iron  Flues. — Common  salt  and  sifted  wood- 
ashes  in  equal  parts,  made  into  a  paste  with  water,  is  a  very 
good  cement  for  iron  flues,  and  may  be  applied  when  the  flue 
is  hot  or  cold.  Iron  filings  and  vinegar  will  do  almost  as  well, 
or  rather  iron  filings  moistened  with  diluted  muriatic  acid. 
These  are  generally  used  for  filling  up  the  space  between  cvlin- 
ders. 


274.  Preparation  of  common  Cement  for  joining  Alabaster^ 
Marble,  Porphyry,  or  other  Stones. — Take  of  bees'- wax  two 
pounds,  and  of  rosin  one  pound  ;  melt  them,  and  add  one  Dound 


HOME   AND   ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  73 

and  a  half  of  the  same  kind  of  matter,  (powdered,)  as  the  body 
to  be  cemented  is  composed  of,  strewhig  it  into  the  melted 
mixture,  and  stirring  them  well  together,  and  afterwards  knead- 
ing the  mass  in  water,  that  the  powder  may  be  thoroughly  in- 
corporated with  wax  and  rosin.  The  proportion  of  the  powder- 
ed matter  may  be  varied,  where  required,  in  order  to  bring 
the  cement  nearer  to  the  color  of  the  body  on  which  it  is  em- 
ployed. 

This  cement  must  be  heated  when  applied ;  as  must^also  the 
parts  of  the  subject  to  be  cemented  together;  and- care  must  be 
taken  likewise,  that  they  be  thoroughly  dry. 

When  this  composition  is  properly  managed,  it  forms  an 
extremely  strong  cement,  w^hich  will  even  suspend  a  projecting 
body  of  considerable  weight,  after  it  is  thoroughly  dry  and  set, 
and  is  therefore  of  great  use  to  all  carvers  in  stone,  or  others 
who  may  have  occasion  to  join  together  the  parts  of  bodies  of 
this  nature. 

Melted  sulphur,  applied  to  fragments  of  stones  previously 
heated  (by  placing  them  before  a  fire)  to  at  least  the  melting 
point  of  sulphur,  and  then  joined  with  the  sulphur  between, 
makes  a  pretty  firm  and  durable  joining. 

Chips  out  of  corners,  and  similar  little  deficiencies  in  the 
stone,  may  also  be  filled  up  with  melted  sulphur,  in  which  some 
of  the  powder  of  the  stone  has  been  mixed  :  but  the  stone  should 
be  previously  heated. 


275.  Strong  Cement,— To  prevent  the  escape  of  the  vapors 
of  water,  spirit,  and  liquors  not  corrosive,  the  simple  applica- 
tion of  slips  of  moistened  bladder  will  answer  very  well  for 
glass,  and  paper  with  good  paste  for  metal.  Bladder,  to  be 
very  adhesive,  should  be  soaked  some  time  in  water  moderately 
warm,  till  it  feels  clammy,  it  then  sticks  very  well ;  if  smeared 
with  white  of  eggs  instead  of  water,  it  adheres  still  closer. 


276.  To  scour  a  Hat — Rub  yellow  soap  on  a  hard  brush,  dip 
it  into  boiling  water,  and  brush  the  hat  round  with  the  nap ;  if 
the  nap  be  clotted,  continue  to  brush  it  till  it  is  smooth,  and 
free  from  soap ;  then,  if  requisite,  scrape  out  the  dirt,  by  pass- 
ing round  the  hat  an  edged  piece  of  wood,  or  the  back  of  a  knife  ; 
next,  beat  the  nap  with  a  cane,  hang  the  hat  to  dry,  and  pass  a 
heated  flat  iron  two  or  three  times  gently  over  it ;  brush  it 
aftervards. 


t4  MRS.  hale's  recbipts  for  the  million. 

277.  Management  of  Razor  Strops, — Most  razor  strops  are 
spoiled  by  being  left  too  dry ;  a  drop  or  two  of  sweet  oil,  fre- 
quently added  to  the  strop,  would  remedy  this  ;  and,  after  using 
the  strop,  passing  the  razor  on  the  inside  of  a^warm  hand,  gives 
the  smoothest  and  finest  edge ;  putting  the  razor  in  warm  w^ater 
makes  it  cut  very  keen,  and  perhaps  nothing  makes  a  better 
razor  strop  than  crocus  martis,  with  a  little  sweet  oil,  rubbed 
well  on  leather  with  a  glass  bottle. 

278.  To  prevent  Gentlemen's  Hats  from  being  injured  by  Rain, 
— Shake  off  the  water  as  much  as  possible ;  then  with  a  clean 
linen  cloth  or  silk  handkerchief  wipe  the  hat  carefully,  keeping 
the  beaver  flat  and  smooth,  in  the  same  direction  as  it  was  first 
placed ;  then  with  hands  fix  it  in  the  original  shape,  and  hang  it 
at  a  distance  from  the  fire  to  dry.  A  few  hours  after,  or  the 
next  morning,  lay  the  hat  on  the  table,  and  brush  it  round  and 
round  several  times  with  a  soft  brush  in  the  proper  direction, 
and  you  will  find  your  hat  not  in  the  least  injured  by  the  rain. 

If  the  gloss  is  not  quite  so  high  as  you  wish,  take  a  flat  iron, 
moderately  heated,  and  pass  the  same  two  or  three  times  gently 
over  the  hat;  brush  itafterw^ards;  and  it  w^ill  be  nearly  as  hand- 
some as  when  first  sent  home  from  the  shop. 

279.  Dyeing, — Occasionally,  w^hen  colored  articles  of  silk, 
wool,  or  cotton  have  been  cleaned,  their  color  requires  to  be 
made  deeper;  at  other  times,  it  may  be  desirable  to  change 
the  color  altogether,  when  that  already  in  the  stuff  must  be 
discharged,  and  the  article  dyed  anew.  ' 

Articles  of  any  color  may  be  dyed  black,  and  black  may 
easily  be  re-dyed.  Blues  ean  be  made  green  or  black ;  green 
may  be  made  brown,  and  brown,  green ;  and  any  color  on  re- 
dyeing,  will  take  a  darker  tint  than  at  first.  A  black  may  be 
dyed  maroon,  claret,  or  dark-brown  ;  but  green  is  the  best  color 
into  which  black  can  be  changed. 

Most  colors  can  be  discharged  by  boiling  the  articles  in  water, 
with  a  small  quantity  of  spirits  of  salts  in  it.  Yellow^s,  browns, 
and  blues,  are  not  easily  discharged ;  maroons,  reds  of  some 
kinds,  and  olives,  may  be  easily  discharged,  by  boiling  them 
in  water,  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  following  articles  :  roche- 
alum,  for  maroons ;  oil  of  vitriol— a  Y^ry  small  quantity — for 
olives  and  grays ;  alum,  pearlash,  or  soap,  will  discharge  greeo 
to  a  yellow,  which  may  be  boiled  off  with  soap. 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  "'S 

280-  To  Alum  Silks, — Silk  should  be  alumed  cold,  for  when 
it  is  alumed  hot,  it  is  deprived  of  a  great  part  of  its  lustre. 
The  alum  liquor  should  always  be  strong  for  silks,  as  they  take 
the  dye  more  readily  afterwards. 

281.  Various  Dyes. — The  following  are  the  articles  employed 
for  the  colors  most  in  use,  the  proportions  depending  upon  the 
►  depth  or  the  shade  required. 

Lilac  and  Purple, — Boil  archil  in  water;  or,  boil  logwood 
in  water ;  and,  when  cold,  dip  the  article  to  be  dyed  into  it, 
having  previously  passed  it  through  a  weak  solution  of  alum 
in  water.  From  logwood  also  may  be  obtained  different  shades 
of  Violet 

Effective  Lilac  dyes  may  be  produced  from  the  berries  of 
the  Portugal  laurel ;  and  from  the  black  currant,  after  the  juice 
has  been  expressed. 

Bed  is  obtained  from  madder,  and  Brazil  w^ood;  the  article" 
being  first  dipped  in  weak  alum  and  water,  then  in  the  dye, 
and  lastly  in  a  decoction  of  archil  and  water,  to  give  it  a  bloom. 

BosCy  Flesh-color^  Poppy ^  and  Cherrry-red^  are  obtained  from 
a  decoction  of  carthamus  in  water,  with  a  little  soda  and  lemon 
juice.  For  a  poppy-color,  the  article  should  first  be  dipped  in 
a  weak  solution  of  arnatto  in  water ;  and  for  a  pale  carnation, 
a  little  soap  should  be  added  to  the  carthamus. 

Pink  Bloom. — Archil  is  employed  to  give  a  bloom  to  pinks, 
whites,  &c.,  as  for  silk  stockings ;  for  which  purpose,  also,  pink 
saucers  are  used. 

Scarlet  is  obtained  from  cochineal ;  but,  for  cotton  and  wool, 
the  color  derived  from  it  is  little  superior  to  that  given  by 
madder. 

Nankeen  is  obtained  from  Spanish  arnatto  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  with  a  small  portion  of  pearlash  in  it. 

Blue  is  prepared  from  indigo;  but,  as  this  dye  is  not  easily 
made,  it  will  be  better  to  purchase  a  bottle  of  "  Blue  Dye." 

Yellow  may  be  obtained  from  the  juice  of  the  tops  of  potato- 
flowers,  fustic  chips,  weld  or  dyers'  weed,  turmeric,  and  Dutch 
pink. 

Green  consists  of  blue  and  yellow  dyes,  mixed. 

Orarige  is  extracted  fi'om  carthamus.  Cinnamon  from  log- 
wood, Brazil  wood,  and  fustic,  mixed ;  or  from  a  strong  decoc- 
tion made  from  the  green  tops  and  flowers  of  the  common  heath* 

Black  is  formed  by  logwood  and  green  copperas  boiled  in 


76  MRS.   HALE*S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

water ;  the  color  being  improved  by  first  boiling  the  article 
with  galls,  or  alder-bark,  in  water ;  or  by  first  dyeing  it  with 
walnut-peels. 

Gray  is  produced  by  diluting  black  dye. 

Brown  is  obtained  from  walnut-peels,  or  the  bark  of  birch 

Olives  are  made  from  blue,  red,  and  brown. 

The  pericarp  of  the  Scotch  rose  contains  a  fine  purple  juio 
which,  diluted  with  water,  dyes  silk  and  muslin  Peach-cola^  '; 
the  addition  of  alum  will  make  it  a  deep  Violet  dye. 

In  all  cases,  except  otherwise  specified,  the  article  to  be  dyed 
should  be  first  steeped  in  a  weak  solution  of  alum  in  water. 


282.  To  dye  the  Linings  of  Curtains^  Furniture  Covers^  (kc, — 
Wash  the  articles  clean,  and,  having  prepared  the  dye  accord- 
ing to  either  of  the  previous  recipes,  dip  them,  rinse  them  in 
pump  water,  then  in  water-starch ;  dry  them  quickly,  and  man- 
gle or  calender  them. 


283.  To  dye  Silk  Stockings. — Wash  and  boil  the  stockings, 
if  requisite,  in  soap  and  water,  and  ^inse  them  in  clear  hot 
water.  Put  three  table-spoonfuls  of  archil  into  a  wash-hand 
basin  of  hot  water,  in  which  soak  the  stockings  until  they  be- 
come of  a  lilac  shade,  when  rinse  them  lightly  in  cold  water. 
Dry  them  in  fumes  of  brimstone,  and  when  they  are  bleached 
to  the  required  flesh-color,  rub  the  right  side  with  clean  flannel 
or  glass,  and  iron  them.  If  the  pink  saucer-color  be  used  in- 
stead of  archil,  the  stockings  will  not  require  bleaching  with 
brimstone. 

For  Black  Stockings, — Having  dyed  them,  finish  them  on 
wooden  legs,  by  rubbing  them  with  flannel  moistened  with 
olive  oil.     Rub  each  pair  half  an  hour. 


284.  To  dye  Gloves  to  look  like  York  Tun.—Pnt  some  saffron 
into  one  pint  of  soft  water  boiling  hot,  and  let  it  infuse  all 
night;  next  morning  wet  the  leather  with  a  brush.  The  tops 
should  be  sewn  close  to  prevent  the  color  from  getting  in. 

To  dye  White  Gloves  a  beautiful  Purple. — Boil  4  ozs.  of  log- 
wood and  2  ozs.  of  roche-alum  in  3  pints  of  soft  water  till  half- 
wasted.  Let  it  stand  to  be  cold  after  straining.  Let  the 
gloves  be  nicely  mended ;  then  do  them  over  with  a  brush,  and 
when  dry  repeat  it.  Twice  is  sufficient,  unless  the  color  is  to 
be  very  dark.     When  dry,  rub  off*  the  loose  dye  with  a  coarse 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  77 

doth.  Beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  with  a  sponge  rub  it 
over  the  leather.  The  dye  will  stain  the  hands,  but  wetting 
them  with  vinegar  before  they  are  washed  will  take  it  off. 


285.  To  dye  Straw  and  Chip  Bonnets  Black, — Boil  them  in 
strong  logwood  liquor  three  or  four  hours,  occasionally  adding 
green  copperas,  and  taking  the  bonnets  out  to  cool  in  the  air, 
and  this  must  be  continued  for  some  hours.  Let  the  bonnets 
remain  in  the  liquor  all  night,  and  the  next  morning  take  them 
out,  dry  them  in  the  air,  and  brush  them  with  a  soft  brush. 
Lastly,  rub  them  inside  and  out  with  a  sponge  moistened  with 
oil,  and  then  send  them  to  be  blocked. 


286.  To  make  Nankeen  Dye, — Boil  equal  parts  of  arnatto  and 
common  potash  in  water,  till  the  whole  are  dissolved.  This 
will  produce  the  pale  reddish  huff  so  much  in  use,  and  sold 
under  the  name  oi  Nankeen  Dye, 

287.  To  dye  Cotton  a  fine  Buff  Color, — Let  the  twist  or  yarn 
be  boiled  in  pure  water,  to  cleanse  it;  then  wring  it,  run  it 
through  a  dilute  solution  of  iron  in  the  vegetable  acid,  which 
printers  call  iron  liquor  ;  wring,  and  run  it"through  lime-water, 
to  raise  it ;  wring  it  again,  and  run  it  through  a  solution  of 
starch  and  water;  then  wring  it  once  more,  and  dry,  wind, 
warp,  and  weave  it  for  use. 


288.  To  dye  Worsted  or  Woollen  Black, — Put  in  half  a  gallon 
of  water  a  piece  of  bi-chromate  of  potash,  the  size  of  a  horse- 
bean.  Boil  the  articles  in  this  seven  or  eight  minutes.  Take 
them  out  and  wash  them.  Then  in  another  half-gallon  of  water 
put  in  one  table-spoonful  and  a  half  of  ground  logwood  ;  boil  the 
articles  in  this  the  same  length  of  time  as  before.  Then  wash 
ihem  in  cold  water. 


289.  To  dye  Hair  and  Feathers  Green, — Take  of  vei'digris  or 
verditer  1  oz.,  gum  water,  1  pint;  mix  them  well,  and  dip  the 
hair  or  feathers  into  the  mixture,  shaking  them  well  about. 

290.  Waterproof  Clothing, — First  make  the  cloak,  coat,  or 
trowsers  of  linen ;  then  soak  them  well  for  a  day  or  two  in 
boiled  oil ;  then  hang  them  up  in  a  dry  place  till  perfectly  dry, 
without  wringing  the  oil  out;  then  paint  chem,  without  turpen 


*IS  MRS.    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

tine  or  dryers  being  in  the  paint,  black,  or  any  other  color  you 
like,  and  lay  the  paint  on  thinly,  and  let  it  dry.  (This  is  the 
method  practised  by  seamen.) 

Waterproof  Clothing. — Make  the  garment  of  strong  unbleach- 
ed calico ;  hang  it  up  in  a  dry  place,  and,  with  a  brush,  give  it 
two  coats  of  boiled  linseed  oil.  Buy  the  oil  ready-boiled ;  a 
pint  will  be  sufficient  for  a  cape  or  pair  of  overalls.  Canvas 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  for  rick-cloths,  or  other  roof- 
nig  purposes. 

Another  way, — Get  some  weak  size,  such  as  is  used  by  paper- 
makers  ;  make  it  hot,  and  stir  a  small  lump  of  alum,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  soap  lather  into  it.  Then  with  a  brush  apply 
it  to  the  garment  equally  all  over,  as  recommended  above  with 
the  oil.  If  the  garment  be  of  good  cloth,  the  size  may  be  laid 
on  inside. 


291.  Chinese  Method  of  rendering  Cloth  Waterproof — To  one 
ounce  of  white  wax,  melted,  add  one  quart  of  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, which,  when  thoroughly  mixed  and  cold,  dip  the  cloth  in 
and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  By  this  cheap  and  easy  method,  mus- 
lin, as  well  as  the  strongest  cloths,  will  be  rendered  impenetra- 
ble to  the  hardest  rains,  without  the  pores  being  filled  up,  or 
any  injury  done,  when  the  cloth  is  colored* 


292.  To  preserve  Furs  and  Woollens  from  Moths, — Let  the 
former  be  occasionally  combed  while  in  use,  and  the  latter  be 
brushed  and  shaken.  When  not  wanted,  dry  them  first,  let 
them  be  cool ;  then  mix  among  them  bitter  apples  from  the 
apothecary's  in  small  muslin  bags,  sew  the  articles  in  several 
folds  of  linen,  carefully  turned  in  at  the  edges,  and  keep  them 
from  damp. 

Or,  lay  amongst  them  the  cuttings  of  Russia  leather. 


293.  Or — Leaves  from  the  tobacco  plant  are  very  effectual 
in  keeping  off  moths.  Lay  them  between  the  folds  of  the 
blankets,  carpets,  &;c.     Air  furs,  occasionally. 


294.  To  prevent  Moths, — In  the  month  of  April  beat  your  fur 
garments  well  with  a  small  cane  or  elastic  stick,  then  lap  them 
up  in  linen  without  pressing  the  fur  too  hard,  and  put  between 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  79 

the  folds  some  camphor  in  small  lumps ;  then  put  your  furs  ir 
this  state  in  boxes  well  closed. 

When  the  furs  are  wanted  for  use,  beat  them  well  as  before, 
and  expose  them  for  twenty-four  hours  to  the  air,  which  will 
take  away  the  smell  of  the  camphor. 

295.  Easy  Method  of  preventing  Moths  in  Furs  or  Woollens. — 
Sprinkle  the  furs  or  woollen  stuffs,  as  well  as  the  drawers  or 
boxes  in  which  they  are  kept,  with  spirits  of  turpentine ;  the 
unpleasant  scent  of  which  will  speedily  evaporate,  on  exposure 
of  the  stuffs  to  the  air.  Some  persons  place  sheets  of  paper, 
moistened  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  over,  under,  or  between 
pieces  of  cloth,  &c.,  and  find  it  a  very  effectual  melhod. 

296.  To  preserve  Furs,  Woollens,  dc, — many  woollen-drapers 
put  bits  of  camphor,  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  in  papers,  on  differ- 
ent parts  of  the  shelves  in  their  shops;  and. as  they  brush  their 
cloths  every  two,  three,  or  four  months,  this  keeps  them  free 
from  moths ;  and  this  should  be  done  in  boxes  where  furs,  &c., 
are  put.  A  tallow  candle  is  frequently  put  within  each  muff 
when  laid  by. 

297.  To  keep  Moths,  Beetles,  Ac^from  Clothes, — Put  a  piece 
of  camphor  in  a  linen  bag,  or  some  aromatic  herbs^  in  the  draw- 
ers, among  linen  or  woollen  clothes,  and  neither  moth  nor  worm 
will  come  near  them. 


298.  A  celebrated  Blacking  Cake  for  Boots  and  Shoes. — Take 
one  part  of  gum  tragacanth,  four  parts  of  river  water,  two  parts 
of  neat's-foot,  or  some  other  softening,  lubricating  oil,  two  parts 
of  superfine  ivory -black,  one  part  of  Prussian  blue  in  fine  pow 
der,  or  indigo,  four  parts  of  brown  sugar-candy  ;  boil  the  mix- 
ture ;  and  when  the  composition  is  of  a  proper  consistence,  let 
it  be  formed  into  cakes  of  such  a  size  that  each  cake  may  make 
a  pint  of  liquid  blacking. 


299.  Good  Blacking  fir  Boots  and  Shoes. — Take  of  ivory 
black,  one  pound  ;  lamp-black,  half  an  ounce ;  treacle,  one  pound  ; 
sweet  oil,  one  ounce  and  a  half;  coarse  gum  Arabic,  half  an 
ounce ;  green  copperas,  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  ;  and  stale 
vinegar,  three  pints  and  a  half.     Mix  all  well  together,  having 


so  MRS.    .  J.LE's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

tirst  dissolved  the  gum  in  a  little  water  ;  then  add  gradually, 
briskly  stirring  the  mixture,  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol ;  let  it 
stand  two  days,  occasionally  stirring  it,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 
Or,  two  ounces  of  ivory-black,  one  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vit- 
riol, a  table-spoonful  of  sweet-oil,  and  two  ounces  of  sugar- 
candy,  to  be  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar. 

300.  Liquid  Blacking. — Ivory-black,  quarter  of  a  pound; 
treacle,  half  a  pound,  well  mixed ;  to  which  add  sweet  oil,  one 
pennyworth,  and  small  beer  three  pints  ;  add  after,  oil  of  vit- 
riol, one  pennyworth,  which  will  cause  it  to  boil.  Fit  tor  use 
in  three  days. 


301.  French  Polish  fo?*  Boots  and  Shoes. — Logwood  chips, 
half  a  pound  ;  glue,  quarter  of  a  pound  ;  indigo,  pounded  very 
fine,  quarter  of  an  ounce  ;  soft  soap,  quarter  of  an  ounce  ;  isin- 
glass, quarter  of  an  ounce  ;  boil  these  ingredients  in  two  pints 
of  vinegar  and  one"  of  water,  during  ten  minutes  after  ebullition, 
then  strain  the  liquid.  When  cold  it  is  fit  for  use.  To  apply 
the  French  polish,  the  dirt  must  be  washed  from  the  boots  and 
shoes ;  when  these  are  quite  dry,  the  liquid  polish  is  put  on 
with  a  bit  of  sponge. 

302.  To  clean  White  Satin  Shoes.-— Ruh  them  lengthways 
t)f  the  satin,  with  a  piece  of  new  white  flannel  dipped  in  spirits 
of  wine.  If  slightly  soiled,  you  may  clean  them  by  rubbing 
with  stale  bread. 

White  satin  shoes  should  be  kept  in  blue  paper  closely  wrap- 
ped, with  coarse  brown  paper  outside. 

To  keep  your  thin,  light  slippers  in  shape,  when  you  put  them 
away,  fold  them  ever  lengthways  or  sideways,  and  tie  the 
strings  round  them.  You  should  have  a  covered  box  purposely 
for  your  shoes. 

303.  To  clean  Boot-tops  Brown — Mix,  in  the  same  quantity 
of  water,  one  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  half  an  ounce  of  muriatic 
acid,  a  small  vial  of  spirits  of  lavender,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  salt  of  lemon.  Each  bottle  should  be  carefully  labeled  and 
marked  "  Poison." 


304.  Directions  for  rising   the  Liquid. — For  the  white  tops : 
to    be  scrubbed  well  with  a  clean  hard  brush,  then  spunged 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS,  61 

well  with  cold  water,  all  one  way,  and  allowed  to  dry  gradually 
in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire. 

Brown  tops  are  not  to  be  scrubbed  with  a  brush,  but  sponged 
all  over  with  the  mixture,  till  all  stains  be  removed  ;  then 
sponged  well  with  cold  water,  and  rubbed  with  flannel  till  they 
be  highly  polished. 

305.  Shoes, — When  about  being  measured  for  shoes,  place 
the  foot  firmly  on  the  ground,  as  the  foot  is  larger  in  a  standing 
than  in  a  sitting  posture. 


806.  Shoes. — One  hint  about  shoes — a  most  essential  and 
expensive  article  of  family  wear.  However  worn  and  full  of 
holes  the  soles  may  be,  if  the  upper  leathers  are  Whole,  or 
soundly  mended,  and  the  stitching  firm,  the  soles  may  be 
covered  with  the  newly  adopted  article  gutta  percha,  and  at  a 
very  small  expense  the  shoes  will  be  rendered  as  good  as  new. 
We  have  seen  shoes  which  even  the  eldest  daughter  of  the 
Smith  family  despised  as  not  worth  carrying  home,  made  quite 
sound  and  respectable  in  appearance,  and  to  serve  many  months 
in  constant  wear,  by  being  thus  soled  at  the  cost  of  only  a  few 
pence.  Thin  shoes  that  have  been  worn  only  in-doors,  -and 
which  are  laid  aside  on  account  of  the  tups  becoming  shabby, 
perhaps  worn  out,  while  the  sewing  is  sound,  may  be  made 
very  tidy  by  covering  with  woollen  cloth,  or  with  a  bit  of  thick 
knitting,  or  platted  list,  stitched  on  as  close  as  possible  to  the 
regular  seam. 

307.  To  prevent  Snow-water  from  penetrating  Boots  and 
Shoes, — Take  equal  quantities  of  bees'-wax  and  mutton-suet, 
and  melt  them  in  an  earthen  pipkin  over  a  slow  fire.  Lay  the 
mixture,  while  hot,  over  the  boots  and  shoes,  which  ought  also 
to  be  made  warm.  Let  them  stand  befoi'e  the  fire  a  short  time, 
and  set  them  aside  till  they  are  cold;  then  rub  them  with  dry- 
woollen  stuff,  so  that  you  may  not  grease  the  blacking-brushes. 
If  you  black  the  shoes  before  the  mixture  be  put  on,  they  will 
afterwards  take  the  blacking  much  better. 

Or,  boil  together  for  half  an  hour,  a  quart  of  linseed  oil,  two 
ounces  of  resin,  and  half  an  ounce  of  white  vitriol,  and  incorpo- 
rate with  them  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  spirit  of  turpentine,  and 
^,wo  ounces  of  well-dried  oak  sawdust.  Lay  the  mixture  on 
the  soles  of  the  boots. 


82  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

808.  Water-proof  Boots, — A  pint  of  boiled  linseed  oil,  half 
a  pound  of  mutton  suet,  six  ounces  of  clean  bees'-wax,  and  four 
ounces  of  resin,  are  to  be  melted  and  well  mixed  over  a  fire. 
Of  this,  while  warm,  but  not  hot  enough  to  shrink  the  leather, 
with  a  brush  lay  on  plentifully  over  new  boots  or  shoes,  whea 
quite  dry  and  clean.  The  leather  remains  pliant.  The  New 
England  fishermen  preserve  their  boots  water-tigh];  by  this  . 
method,  which,,  it  is  said,  has  been  in  use  among  them  above 
one  hundred  years.  They  can  thus  stand  in  water  hour  after 
hour  without  inconvenience. 


309.  Water-proof  Boots. — I  have  had  three  pairs  of  boots 
for  the  last  six  years  .(no  shoes),  and  I  think  I  shall  not  require 
any  more  for  .the  next  six  years  to  come.  The  reason  is,  that 
I  treat  them  in  the  following  manner :  I  put  a  pound  of  tallow 
and  half  a  pound  of  rosin  in  a  pot  on  the  fire ;  when  melted 
and  mixed,  I  warm  ,jihe  boots  and  apply  the  hot  stuff  with  a 
painter's  brush,  until  neither  the  sole  or  the  upper-leather  will 
suck  in  any  more.  If  it  is  desired  that  the  boots  should  imme- 
diately take  a  polish,  melt  an  ounce  of  wax  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  lamp-black.  A  day  after  the  boots  have  been  treated  with 
tallow  and  rosin,  rub  over  them  this  wax  in  turpentine,  but  not 
before  the  fire.  The  exterior  will  then  have  a  coat  of  wax 
alone,  and  will  shine  like  a  mirror.  Tallow,  or  any  other  grease, 
becomes  rancid,  and  rots  the  stitching  as  well  as  the  leather; 
but  the  rosin  gives  it  an  antiseptic  quality,  which  preserves  the 
whole.  Boots  and"* shoes  should  be  so  large  as  to  admit  of 
wearing  cork  soles. —  Correspondent  of  Mechanics''  Magazine, 

310.  To  make  Cloth  or  Outer  Clothing  of  any  description 
Water-proof — Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  yellow  or  Castile 
soap,  and  one  gallon  of  fain  water;  boil  for  twenty  minutes; 
skim,  and  when  cold,  put  in  the  cloth  or  garment;  let  it  remain 

,  soaking  twenty -four  hours ;  take  it  out,  and  hang  to  drain ; 
when  half-dry,  put  it  into  the  following  solution  : — Alum,  half 
a  pound  ;  sugar  of  lead,  quarter  of  a  pound  ;  dissolved  in  four 
gallons  of  rain  water.  Let  the  cloth  be  thoroughly  soaked,  and 
then  hang  to  dry, .  This  process  entirely  destroys  the  capillary 
attraction  in  the  fibres  and  threads  of  the  cloth,  and  the  rain  or 
wet  pours  ofi*  the  surface  without  lodging  or  penetrating  through 
the  cloth.  The  solution  has  no  effect  in  altering  the  texture  or 
appearance  of  the  cloth  or  article  immersed.     Great  care  must 


HOME    AND   ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  83 

be  taken  as  regards  the  sugar  of  lead,  not  to  leave  it  where 
children  or  any  persons  ignorant  of  its  qualities  can  get  access 
to  it,  as  it  is  a  powerful  poison. 

311.  To  make  an  Oil-skin  Coat  or  Wrapper, — If  a  stout  coat 
or  wrapper  is  wanted,  let  the  material  be  strong  unbleached  or 
brown  calico.  If  a  light  one  is  preferred,  make  use  of  brown 
holland.  Soak  it  (when  made)  in  hot  water,  and  hang  to  dry ; 
then  boil  ten  ounces  of  India-rubber  in  one  qullrt  of  raw  linseed 
oil,  until  dissolved ;  (this  will  require  about  three  hours'  boil- 
ing,) when  cold,  niix  with  the  oil  so  prepared  about  half  a  pint 
of  paint  of  any  color  which  may  be  preferred,  and  of  the  same 
consistency  as  that  used  for  paintiug  wood.  With  a  paint- 
brush lay  a  thin  coat  over  the  outside  of  the  wrapper,  brushing 
it  well  into  the  seams.  Hang  it  to  dry  in  a  current  of  air,  but 
sheltered  from  a  powerful  sun.  When  thoroughly  dry,  give  it 
another  coat ;  dry  as  before,  and  then  give  a  third  and  last  coat. 
The  wrapper,  when  well  dried,  will  be  ready  for  use. 


3i2.  To  make  Gutta  Percha  Soles, — ^The  gutta  percha  pos- 
sesses properties  which  render  it  invaluable  for  winter  shoes. 
It  is,  compared  with  leather,  a  slow  conductor  of  heat;  the  effect 
of  this  is,  that  the  warmth  of  the  feet  is  retained,  however  cold 
the  surface  may  be  on  which  the  person  stands,  and  that  clam- 
my dampness,  so  objectionable  in  the  wear  of  India  rubber 
shoes,  is  entirely  prevented.  On  first  using  gutta  percha  shoes, 
the  wearer  is  forcibly  struck  with  the  superior  warmth  and 
comfort  which  is  produced  by  this  non-conducting  property ; 
and  I  confidently  predict,  that  all  those  who  try  gutta  percha, 
will  be  steady  consumers. 

We  shall  now  give  the  method  of  fixing  the  gutta  percha 
soles.  Make  the  sole  of  the  boot  perfectly  clean  and  dry, 
scratch  it  with  an  awl  or  a  fork  until  it  becomes  rough,  warm 
it  before  the  fire,  and  spread  over  it  with  a  hot  ir.on  or  poker 
some  of  the  "  solution"  sold  for  this  purpose,  or  in  the  absence 
of  this,  place  some  of  the  thin  parings  of  the  gutta  percha  on 
the  sole,  holding  it  to  the  fire,  and  spreading  it  as  before. 
When  this  has  been  repeated  two  or  three  times,  and  all  is  well 
covered,  warm  the  gutta  percha  sole,  and  the  sole  of  the  boot 
at  the  same  time,  until  both  become  soft  and  sticky,  place  the 
sole  on  the  boot,  and  press  it  down  carefully,  beginning  at  the 
toe,  so  as  to  press  out  the  air  and  make  it  adhere  closely ; 


8-4  MRS.  male's  receipts  for  the  million. 

nothing  more  remains  to  be  done,  than  as  soon  as  it  becomes 
hard  to  pare  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  trim  off  as  may 
be  necessary.  All  the  parings  and  old  pieces  should  be  saved, 
as  gutta  percha  is  not  injured  by  use,  and  may  be  sold  to  the 
manufacturer  in  order  to  be  restored  and  made  up  again, 

313.  Fly  Water, — Most  of  the  fly-waters,  and  other  prepara- 
tions commonly  sold  for  the  destruction  of  flies,  are  variously  dis- 
guised poisons,  dangerous  and  even  fatal  to  the  human  species: 
such  as  solutions  of  mercury,  arsenic,  &c.,  mixed  with  honey  or 
Byrup.  The  following  preparation,  however,  without  endanger- 
ing the  lives  of  children,  or  other  incautious  persons,  is  not  less 
fatal  to  flies  than  even  a  solution  of  arsenic.  Dissolve  two 
drachms  of  the  extract  of  quassia  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ; 
and  adding  a  little  sugar  or  syrup,  pour  the  mixture  on  plates. 
To  this  enticing  food  the  flies  are  extremely  partial,  and  it  never 
fails  to  destroy  them. 

A  strong  infusion  of  green  tea,  sweetened,  is  as  effectual  in 
poisoning  flies,  as  the  solution  of  arsenic  generally  sold  for  that 
purpose.  

314.  To  destroy  Flies. — Ground  black  pepper  and  moist 
sugar,  intimately  mixed  in  equal  quantities,  and  diluted  with 
milk,  placed  in  saucers,  adding  fresh  milk,  and  stirring  the  mix- 
ture as  often  a%  necessary,  succeeds  admirably  in  occasioning 
their  death. 


315.  Another  way  to  destroy  Flies, — Pour  a  little  simple 
oxymel  (an  article  sold  by  druggists)  into  a  common  tumbler 
glass,  and  place  in  "the  glass  a  piece  of  cap  paper,  made  into  the 
shape  of  the  upper  part  of  a  funnel,  with  a  hole  at  the  bottom 
to  admit  the  flies.  Attracted  by  the  smell,  they  readily  enter 
the  trap  in  swarms,  and  by  the  thousands  soon  collected  prove 
that  they  have  not  the  wit  or  the  disposition  to  return. 


316.  To  remove  Flies, — Flies  and  other  insects  may  be  kept 
from  attacking  meat,  by  dusting  it  over  with  pepper,  powdered 
ginger,  or  any  other  spice,  or  by  skewering  a  piece  of  paper  to 
it  on  which  a  drop  of  creosote  has  been  poured.  The  spices 
may  be  readily  washed  off*  with  water  before  dressing  the  meat. 

317.  To  keep  off  Flies, — Place  camphor  on  or  near  what  you 
wish  to  protect  from  them.  * 


HOME   AND   ITS    EMPLOYMENTS. 


ed" 


818.  Wasps  and  Flies. — These  insects  may  be  killed  imme- 
diately by  dipping  a  feather  in  a  little  sweet  oil,  and  touching 
their  backs  with  it.  When  intent  on  fruit  this  can  easily  be 
done..  Insects  of  different  kinds  are  readily  killed  by  oil ;  it 
closes  up  the  lateral  pores  by  which  they  breathe. 

319.  To  destroy  Ants  and  Wasps. — Ants  are  destroyed  by  open- 
ing the  nest  and  pu-tting  in  quick-lime,  and  throwing  water  on  it. 

Wasps  may  be  destroyed  in  the  same  way ;  only  it  will  be 
requisite  that  the  person  who  does  it  should  be  covered  with 
muslin,  or  something  over  the  face,  hands,  &;c.,  so  that  tho 
wasps  shall  not  be  able  to  sting  them. 


320.  To  destroy  Ants, — Ants  that  frequent  houses  or  gardens 
may  be  destroyed  by  taking  flour  of  brimstone,  half  a  pound, 
and  potasli,  four  ounces:  set  them  in  an  iron  or  earthen  pan 
over  the  fire  till  dissolved  and  united ;  afterwards  beat  them  to 
a  powder,  and  infuse  a  little  of  this  powder  in  water ;  and  wher- 
ever you  sprinkle  it  the  ants  will  die,  or  fly  the  place. 


321.  Another  Metliod, — Corrosive  sublimate,  niixed  well  with 
sugar,  has  proved  a  mortal  poison  to  them,  and  is  the  most  effec- 
tual way  of  destroying  these  insects. 


322.  To  destroy  Cockroaches,  &c, — Stir  a  small  quantity  of 
arsenic  with  some  bread-crumbs,  which  lay  near  the  insects' 
haunts;  meantime,  be  careful  to  keep  dogs  and  cats  out  of  the 
way.  Poisoned  wafers  are  also  made  for  killing  cockroaches : 
a  trap  is  made  with  a  glass  well,  for  the  same  purpose ;  but  a 
more  simple  contrivance  is  to  half-fill  a  glazed  basin,  or  pie- 
dish,  with  sweetened  beer  or  linseed  oil,  and  set  in  places  fre- 
quented by  cockroaches.  They  will  attack  the  red  wax  of  seal- 
ed bottles,  but  will  not  touch  black  wax. 


323.  To  destroy  Crickets. — To  destroy  crickets  at  night,  set 
dishes  or  saucers  filled  with  the  grounds  of  beer  or  tea,  on  the 
kitchen-floor,  and,  in  the  morning,  the  crickets  will  be  found 
dead  from  excess  of  drinking. 


324.   To  drive  away  Fleas. — Sprinkle  about  the  bed  a  few 
drops  of  oil  of  lavender,  and  the  fleas  will  soon  disappear. 


86  MRS.   HALE's    receipts    for    THB    MILLIOir. 

Fumigation  with  brimstone,  or  fresh  leaves  of  penny-royal 
sewed  in  a  bag,  and  laid  in  the  bed,  will  have  the  desired  effect. 


S25.  Liquor  for  destroying  Caterpillars,  Ants,  and  otJier  In- 
sects,— Take  a  pound  and  three-quarters  of  soap,  the  same  quan 
tity  of  flower  of  sulphur,  two  pounds  of  champignons,  or  pufF- 
balls,  and  fifteen  gallons  of  water.  When  the  whole  has  been 
well  mixed,  by  the  aid  of  a  gentle  heat,  sprinkle  the  insects 
with  the  liquor,  and  it  will  instantly  kill  them. 


326.  To  destroy  Rats. — Cut  a  number  of  corks  or  a  piece  of 
sponge  as  thin  as  sixpences ;  stew  them  in  grease,  and  place 
them  in  the  way  of  the  rats.  They  will  greedily  devour  this 
delicacy,  and  will  die  of  indigestion. 


327.  To  kill  Bats,  another  way. — There  are  two  objections ' 
to  the  common  mode  of  killing,  rats,  by  laying  poison  for  them  ; 
first,  the  danger  to  which  it  exposes  other  animals  and  -even 
human  beings ;  second,  the  possibility  that  the  rats  may  cause 
an  intolerable  stelich,  by  dying  in  their  holes.  The  following 
method  is  free  from  these  objections,  and  has  proved  effectual 
in  clearing  houses  infested  with  these  vermin. 

Oil  of  amber  and  ox-gall  in  equal  parts,  add  to  them  oat- 
meal or  flour  sufficient  to  form  a  paste,  which  divide  into  little 
balls  and  lay  them  in  the  middle  of  a  room  which  rats  are 
supposed  or  known  to  visit.  Surround  the  balls  with  a  num- 
ber of  vessels  fHled  with  water.  The  smell  of  the  oil  will  be 
sure  to  attract  the  rats,  they  will  greedily  devour  the  balls, 
and  becoming  intolerably  thirsty,  will  drink  till  they  die  on 
the  spot. 

328.  To  expel  Bats. — Catch  one  in  a  trap;  muzzle  it,  with 
the  assistance  of  a  fellow-servant,  and  slightly  singe  some  of 
the  hair ;  then  smear  the  part  with  turpentine,  and  set  the  ani- 
mal loose  ;  if  again  caught,  leave  it  still  at  liberty,  as  the  other 
rats  will  shun  the  place  which  it  inhabits.  It  is  said  to  be  a 
fact  that  a  toad  placed  in  a  cellar  will  free  it  from  rats. 

Rats  may  be  expelled  from  cellars  and  granaries  simply  by 
scattering  a  few  stalks  and  leaves  of  muilen  in  their  paths. 
There  is  something  very  annoying  in  this  plant  to  the  rat.  It 
affords,  therefore,  a  very  easy  method  of  getting  rid  of  a  most 


HOME    AND    ITS    EMPLOYMENTS.  87 

perplexing  evil,  and  much  more  economical  and  less  trouble- 
some than  gunpowder,  "  rat  exterminator,"  cats,  or  traps. 


829.  To  destroy  Fleas  and  other  Vermin  on  Animals, — To  de- 
stroy them  on  dogs,  rub  the  animal,  when  out  of  the  house, 
with  the  common  Scotch  snufF,  except  the  nose  and  eyes.  Rub 
the  powder  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair.  Clear  lime-water 
destroys  the  flea-worm  without  injuriug  the  skin  or  hair. 

Oil  of  turpentine,  when  applied  to  animals,  which  were 
covered  with  insects,  destroyed  the  insects,  without  hurting  the 
animal. 


330.  To  destroy  JBugs, — Mix  half  a  pint  of  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine and  half  a  pint  of  best  rectified  spirits  of  wine,  in  a  strong 
bottle,  and  add  in  small  pieces  about  half  an  ounce  of  camphor, 
which  will  dissolve  in  a  few  minutes.  Shake  the  mixture  well 
together ;  and,  with  a  sponge  or  brush  dipped  in  it,  well  wet 
the  bed  and  furniture  where  the  vermin  breed.  This  will  infal- 
libly destroy  both  them  and  their  nits,  though  they  swarm. 
The  dust,  however,  should  be  well  brushed  from  the  bedstead . 
and  fyirniture,  to  prevent,  from  such  carelessness,  any  stain.  If 
that  precaution  is  attended  to,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  soil- 
ing the  richest  silk  or  damask.  On  touching  a  live  bug  with 
only  the  tip  of  a  pin  put  into  the  mixture,  the  insect  will  be 
instantly  deprived  of  existence,  and  should  any  bugs  happen  to 
appear  after  using  the  mixture,  it  will  only  be  from  not  wet- 
ting the  linen,  &c.,  of  the  bed,  the  foldings  and  linings  of  the 
curtains  near  the  rings  or  the  joints,  or  holes  in  and  about  the 
bed  or  head-board,  in  which  places  the  vermin  nestle  and  breed  ; 
so  that  those  parts  being  well  wetted  with  more  of  the  mixture, 
which  dries  as  fast  as  it  is  used,  and  pouring  it  into  the  joints 
and  holes,  where  the  sponge  and  brush  cannot  reach,  it  will 
never  fail  totally  to  destroy  them.  The  smell  of  this  mixture, 
though  powerful,  is  extremely  wholesome,  and  to  many  persons 
very  agreeable.  It  exhales,  however,  in  two  or  three  days. 
Only  one  caution  is  necessary  ;  but  that  is  important.  The 
mixture  must  be  well  shaken  when  used ;  but  never  applied  by 
candle  lights  lest  the  spirits,  being  attracted  by  the  flare  of  the 
candle,  might  cause  a  conflagration. 


331.  Kitchen  Cloths. — The  four  kinds  of  cloths  requisite  for 
the   kitchen,   are  knife-cloths,    dusters,    tea   and   glass-cloths. 


58  MRS.  iiale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

Knife-cloths  should  be  made  of  coarse  sheeting,  Dusters  are 
generally  made  of  mixed  cotton  and  linen.  The  best  material 
for  tea  and  glass-cloths,  is  a  sheet  which  has  begun  to  wear  thin. 
Besides  the  above  cloths,  are  knife-tray-cloths,  house-cloths 
for  cleaning,  pudding  and  cheese-cloths,  and  towels. 


332.  Clothes'  Posts  soon  decay  at  the  bottom,  if  left  standing 
in  the  ground ;  but,  if  fitted  into  sockets  so  as  to  be  remov- 
able, they  will  last  for  years.  The  sockets  should  be  made  of 
one-inch  elm,  eighteen  inches  in  length,  tapering  downwards. 
When  finished,  they  ought  to  be  about  three  inches  square 
inside,  at  the  upper  end.  They  are  to  be  driven  firmly  into 
the  earth  till  just  level  with  the  surface.  The  posts  are  then 
made  to  drop  in  and  stand  firm,  and  can  be  taken  out,  and  put 
under  shelter  w^hen  not  in  use.  A  cover  should  be  fitted  to 
each  socket,  to  keep  litter  from  falling  in  when  the  post  is 
removed.  A  drying-ground  should  not  be  too  much  exposed 
to  the  wand,  as  the  violent  flapping  tears  the  corners  of  table- 
cloths, sheets,  &;c.,  and  overblown  linen  feels  flabby  after  man- 
gling. 

333.  Out-houses  and  Cellars, — If  these  have  not  been  recently 
cleansed,  have  them  thoroughly  cleaned  out  and  white-washed. 
A  dirty  cellar  is  an  abomination,  and  the  fruitful  source  of 
many  diseases.  Let  all  your  out-buildings  have  a  thorough 
overhauling  and  repairing. 


334.  To  purify  Houses,— An  able  chemist  recommends  a 
mixture  of  one  pound  of  chloride  of  lime  in  ten  gallons  of 
water.  Throw^  a  quart  of  this  daily  down  the  sink  or  water- 
closet.     It  will  not  cost  five  cents  a  week. 

One  of  the  best  and  most  pleasant  disinfectants  is  coffee. 
Pound  w^ ell-dried  raw  cofiVe-beans  in  a  mortar,  and  strew  the 
powder  over  a  moderately  heated  iron  plate.  The  simple 
traversing  of  the  house  with  a  roaster  containing  freshly  roasted 
coffee  will  clear  it  of  offensive  smells. 


PART  n. 

HEALTH  AND  BEAUTY. 

Rules  for  the  preservation  of  Health,  and  simple  Recipes  found 
often  efficacious  in  common  diseases  and  slight  injuries — Direc- 
tions for  preparing  Remedies  and  ministering  to  the  Sick  and 
Suffering — The  Toilet ,  or  hints  and  suggestions  for  the  pre- 
servation of  Beauty y  with  some  useful  Recipes  for  those  who 
need  them, 

335.  Means  of  preserving  Health., — Light  and  sunshine  are 
needful  for  your  health.  Get  all  you  can  ;  keep  your  windows 
clean.  Do  not  block  them  up  with  curtains,  plants,  or  bunches 
of  flowers :  these  last  poison  the  air  in  small  rooms. 

Fresh  air  is  needful  for  your  health.  As  often  as  you  can, 
open  all  your  windows,  if  only  for  a  short  time,  in  bad  weather ; 
in  fine  weather,  keep  them  open,  but  never  sit  in  draughts. 
When  you  get  up,  open  the  windows  wide,  and  throw  down 
the  bed-clothes,  that  they  may  be  exposed  to  fresh  air  some 
hours  daily  before  they  are  made  up.  Keep  your  bed-clothes 
clean  ;  hang  them  to  the  fire  when  you  can.  Avoid  wearing  at 
night  what  you  wear  in  the  day.  Hang  up  your  day  clothes 
at  night.  Except  in  the  severest  weather,  in  small  crowded 
sleeping-rooms,  a  little  opening  at  the  top  of  the  window-sash 
is  very  important;  or,  you  will  find  one  windows-pane  of  perfo- 
rated zinc  very  useful.  You  will  not  catch  cold  half  so  easily 
by  breathing  pure  air  at  night.  Let  not  the  beds  be  directly 
under  the  windows.  Sleeping  in  exhausted  air  creates  a  desire 
fur  stimulants. 

Pure  water  is  needful  for  your  health.  Wash  your  bodies 
as  well  as  your  faces,  rubbing  them  all  over  with  a  coarse  cloth. 


90  MRS.  uale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

If  you  cannot  wash  thus  eyery  morning,  pray  do  so  once  a  week. 
Crying  and  cross  children  areoften  pacified  by  a  gentle  washing 
of  their  little  hands  and  faces — it  soothes  thenci.  Babies'  heads 
should  be  washed  carefully,  every  morning,  with  yellow  soap. 
No  scurf  should  be  suffered  to  remain  upon  them.  Get  rid  of 
all  slops  and  dirty  water  at  once,  but  do  not  throw  them  out 
before  your  doors ;  and  never  suifer  dead  cabbage-leaves  or  dirt 
of  any  kind  to  remain  there ;  all  these  poison  the  air,  and  bring 
fevers.  All  bad  smells  are  poison ;  never  rest  with  them. 
Keep  your  back  yards  clean.  Pig-sties  are  very  injurious ; 
slaughter-houses  are  equally  hurtful :  the  smells  from  both 
excite  typhus  fever,  and  cause  ill  health.  Frederick  the  Great 
said,  that  one  fever  was  more  fatal  to  him  than  seven  battles. 
Disease,  and  even  death,  is  often  the  consequence  of  our  own 
negligence.  Wash  your  rooms  and  passages  at  least  once  a 
week ;  use  plenty  of  clean  water ;  but  do  not  let  your  children 
stay  in  them  while  they  are  wet — it  may  bring  on  croup  or 
inflammation  of  the  chest.  If  you  read  your  Bibles — which  it 
is  earnestly  hoped  you  do — you  will  find  how  cleanliness,  both 
as  to  the  person  and  habitation,  was  taught  to  the  Jews  by  God 
himself;  and  we  read  in  the  4th  chapter  of  Nehemiah,  that 
when  they  were  building  their  second  temple,  and  defending 
their  lives  against  their  foes,  having  no  time  for  rest,  they,  con- 
trived to  put  off  their  clothes  for  washing.  It  is  a  good  old 
saying,  that  Cleanliness  is  next  to  Godliness,    See  Heb.  x.  22. 

Wholesome  food  is  needful  for  your  health.  Buy  the  most 
strengthenings  Pieces  of  fresh  beef  and  mutton  go  the  farthest. 
Eat  plenty  of  fresh  salt  with  food ;  it  prevents  disease.  Pray 
do  not  let  your  children  waste  their  pocket-money  in  tarts, 
cakes,  sugar-plums,  sour  fruit,  &c. ;  they  are  very  unwholesome, 
and  hurt  the  digestion.  People  would  often,  at  twenty  years 
of  age,  have  a  nice  littlje  sum  of  money  to  help  them  on  in 
the  world,  if  they  had  put  in  the  savings-bank  the  money  so 
wasted.  Cocoa  is  cheaper  and  much  more  nourishing  than  tea. 
None  of  these  liquids  should  be  taken  hot,  but  lukewarm  ;  when 
hot,  they  inflame  the  stomach,  and  produce  indigestion.  All 
kinds  of  intoxicating  drinks  are  to  be  avoided,  or  taken  in  the 
utmost  moderation.  If  possible,  abstain  from  them  altogether. 
Money  saved  from  drink,  will  help  to  educate  your  children, 
and  make  your  homes  happier. 

W^e  are  all  made  to  breathe  the  pure  air  of  heaven,  and  there- 
tore  much  illness  is  caused  by  being  constantly  in-doors.     This 


HEALTH    AND   BEAUTY.  01 

is  especially  the  case  with  mothers  of  families,  young  milliners, 
ironers,  shoe-makers,  tailors,  &;c.  Let  such  persons  make  a 
point,  whenever  it  is  possible,  of  taking  exercise  in  the  open  air 
for  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half,  daily.  Time  would  be  saved 
in  the  long-run,  by  the  increased  energy  and  strength  gained, 
and  by  the  warding  off  of  disease. 

Be  sure  to  get  your  children  vaccinated,  between  the  third 
and  sixth  month  after  birth,  before  teething  begins,  and  when 
they  are  in  a  good  state  of  health  for  it.  This  would  save  a 
great  many  lives.  On  no  account  give  your  children  laudanum, 
or  any  kind  of  sleeping  medicine ;  numbers  are  killed  by  it. 

336.  Directions  in  severe  Sickness, — Whenever  any  one  of 
your  family  is  taken  violently  ill,  send  as  soon  as  possible  for 
the  most  skilful  physician — and  follow,  carefully,  his  orders. 
But,  many  times,  the  mother  is  the  best  physician,  and  the 
only  one  needed  for  her  children,  if  she  has  been  trained  to 
take  proper  care  of  her  own  health,  as  every  woman  should  be. 
The  following  recipes  and  directions  may  be  of  great  service 
to  young  mothers,  and  those  who  have  not  been  accustomed 
to  minister  to  the  sick. 


337.  To  purify  the  Chambers  of  the  Sick, — Close  the  windows 
and  doors  of  the  room  to  be  purified,  except  one  door ;  close 
also  the  chimney  aperture,  except  two  or  three  inches  at  the 
bottom,  and  remove  all  the  iron  and  brass  furniture ;  then  put 
three  table-spoonsful  of  common  salt  into  a  dish  or  pan,  place 
it  upon  the  floor  of  the  apartment^  and  pour  at  once  upon  the 
salt  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  oil  of  vitriol ;  retire,  and  close  the 
room  for  forty-eight  hours,  during  which  tfme  vapor  will  con- 
tinue to  rise  and  diffuse  itself  completely  through  the  room^  so 
as  to  destroy  the  matter  on  which  infection  depends.  The  room 
may  then  be  entered,  the  doors  and  windows  thrown  open,  and 
a  fire  made  in  the  grate,  so  that  the  apartment  may  be  perfectly 
ventilated. 


338.  To  prevent  Infection, — As  a  preservative,  carry  with 
you  and  smell  occasionally,  a  handkerchief  sprinkled  with  this 
mixture ;  half  an  ounce  of  spirits  of  camphor,  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  five  ounces  of  pyroligneous  acid. 

Cascarilla  bark  is  good  to  smoke,  to  prevent  the  effects  of 
malaria,  and  in  sick  rooms  to  correct  bad  effluvia.     It  yields  a 


92  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

fine  aromatic  odor,  and. is  very  wholesome  for  sedentarj'-  and 
studious  people  to  smoke,  if  mixed  with  good  tobacco.  The 
proportions  for  either  of  these  purposes  are  as  follow  :  one 
pound  of  Turkey  tobacco,  four  ounces  of  Dutch  canister 
tobacco,  and  one  ounce  of  Cascarilla  bark,  broken  small ;  mix 
the  above,  and  smoke  a  pipe  of  it  every  evening,  when  the 
house  is  shut  up ;  it  is  also  a  good  digester  after  meals. 

339.  Fumigating  Pastilles, — Pound  and  mix  gum  benja- 
min and  frankincense  in  powder,  of  each  two  drachms  ;  gum 
myrrh,  storax,  cascarilla  bark,  and  nitre,  of  each,  powdered,  one 
ounce  and  a  half;  and  charcoal  powder,  one  ounce  :  moisten, 
and  shape  into  pastilles  with  gum- water,  and  a  very  little  tur- 
pentine. 

The  stalks  of  driea  lavender,  if  burnt,  have  an  agreeable 
scent,  and  form  a  substitute  for  pastilles ;  they  may  be  cut 
small,  and  burnt  in  little  vessels. 


340.  To  use  Chloride  of  Lime, — This  preventive  of  contagion 
may  be  used  as  follows :  stir  one  pound  of  the  chloride  of  lime 
into  four  gallons  of  water ;  allow  it  to  settle  for  a  short  time^ 
pour  off  the  clear  solution,  and  keep  it  in  well-corked  bottles. 

In  bouses  infected,  sprinkle  the  rooms  morning  and  evening 
with  the  above  liquid  ;  and  pour  some  of  it  into  shallow  dishes 
or  basins.  Sprinkle  it  about  the  room  and  bed-linen  occasion- 
ally, and  admit  fresh  air.  Infected  linen  should  be  dipped  in 
the  mixture  about  five  minutes,  and  then  in  common  water, 
before  it  is  sent  to  the  wash. 

A  wine-glassful  added  to  the  water  of  a  night-chair  or  bed- 
pan, will  prevent  any  smell.  To  destroy  the  effluvia  from 
drains,  sewers,  cesspools,  &;c.,  pour  into  them  a  quart  of  the 
mist tu re,  with  a  pail  of  w^ater. 

Meat  sprinkled  with,  or  dipped  in  the  mixture,  and  hung  in 
the  air,  will  not  be  attacked  by  flies,  nor  be  tainted,  for  some 
time. 

Water  in  cisterns  may  be  purified,  and  its  animalcula  killed, 
by  putting  about  a  pint  of  the  mixture  to  one  hundred  gallons 
of  water. 

This  mixture  will  also  destroy  bugs,  if  the  joints  and  crevices 
of  bedsteads  be  washed  with  it.  It  will  likewise  remove  the 
smell  of  paint  in  a  day,  if  the  newly  painted  room  be  sprinkled 
with  it,  and  if  some  be  placed  there  in  dishes  or  saucers. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY,  93 

S41.  Disinfecting  Liquid, — In  a  wine-bottle  full  of  cold  water 
dissolve  two  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead,  and  add  two  ounces  of 
aqua-fortis.  .  Shake  the  mixture  well.  A  very  small  quantity 
of  the  liquid  in  its  strongest  form  should  be  used  for  cleansing 
all  chamber  utensils.  To  remove  offensive  odors,  dilute  the 
liquid  with  eight  or  ten  parts  of  water,  moisten  clean  cloths 
thoroughly  with  it,  and  hang  them  in  various  parts  of  the  room. 
The  offensive  gases  are  neutralized  by  chemical  action.  Fumi- 
gation is  merely  substituting  one  odor  for  another.  In  all 
practicable  QSises,  fresh  air,  and  plenty  of  it,  is  far  the  best  dis- 
infectant. 


342.  To  prevent  Abrasions  of  the  Skin  in  persons  confined  to 
their  beds  ;  a  very  valuable  recipe, — Apply  occasionally  to  the 
tender  parts  of  the  body,  with  a  feather,  this  mixture.  Beat  to 
a  strong  froth  the  white  of  an  ^gg,  then  drop  in  gradually, 
while  beating  it,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  spirits  of  wine.  Bottle  it 
for  use. 


343.  To  prevent  Discolor ations  of  the  Skin  after  a  blow  or 
fall, — Moisten  a  little  dry  starch  or  arrow-root  with  cold  water, 
and  lay  it  on  the  injured  part.  It  should  be  done  immediately, 
so  as  to  prevent  the  action  of  the  air  upon  the  skin ;  however, 
it  may  be  applied  with  good  effect  some  hours  afterwards.  It 
is  a  French  receipt,  and  is  quite  valuable. 

344.  A  recipe  for  Neuralgia  in  the  Face, — Make  a  lotion  with 
half  a  pint  of  rose-water  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  white  vine- 
gar. Apply  it  to  the  part  affected,  three  or  four  times  a-day, 
using  a  fresh  linen  cloth  each  time.  In  two  or  three  days  the 
pain  will  pass  away.  This  has  been  an  effectual  cure  with 
many,  but  as  the  disease  arises  from  various  causes,  there  is  no 
specific  for  it. 

345.  Eye  Water  for  weak  eyes, — Infuse  in  boiling  water,  till 
cold,  half  an  ounce  of  poppy  heads,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
chamomile  flowers.  Strain  this  mixture,  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  one  of  brandy.  Apply  it  warm, 
night  and  morning. 

346.  Another, — Put  into  a  two-ounce  phial  fifteen  drops  of 
laudanum,  fill  it  with  two-thirds  of  rose-water,  and  one-third  of 
rectified  spirits  of  Mindererus.     Use  it  with  a  sponge. 


94.  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

347.  To  cure  a  Bruise  in  the  Eye. — Take  Conserve  of  red 
roses,  or  a  bruised  apple,  put  them  in  a  fold  of  thin  cambric, 
apply  it  to  the  eye,  and  it  will  draw  the  bruise  out. 

348.  Cold  or  Inflammation  of  the  Eyes, — Mix  a  few  bread 
crumbs  with  the  white  of  an  ^gg^  put  it  in  a  bag  of  soft  muslin, 
and  apply  it  to  the  eye.  It  will  afford  relief  in  a  few  minutes, 
and  generally  a  cure  in  a  day.  It  is  best  applied  at  night,  or 
when  lying  down.  When  removed,  bathe  the  eye  well  with 
warm  water,  using  a  bit  of  muslin,  not  a  sponge. 

349.  Carvacrol^  the  new  remedy  for  the  Tooth-ache. — Dr. 
Bushman  gives  (in  the  Medical  Times)  the  following  account  of 
this  new  compound,  which,  though  well  known  in  Germany  as 
a  quick  and  effectual  cure  for  one  of  the  most  worrying  ills 
"  that  flesh  is  heir  to,"  is  now  for  the  first  time  publiGhed  in 
England.  Carvacrol  is  an  oily  liquid,  with  a  strong  taste  and 
unpleasant  odor.  It  may  be  made  by  the  action  of  iodine  on 
oil  of  caraway  or  on  camphor.  A  few  drops  applied  on  cotton 
wool  (to  a  decayed  and  painful  tooth)  give  immediate  relief, 
Carvacrol  much  resembles  creosote  in  appearance,  and  is  used 
in  similar  cases  of  tooth-ache,  but  its  effect  is  much  more  speedy 
and  certain. 


350.  To  cure  Tooth-ache. — A  remedy,  often  effectual,  is  to 
fill  the  mouth  with  warm  water,  and  immediately  after  with 
cold. 


351.  Another  cure  for  Tooth-ache. — Powdered  alum  will 
not  only  relieve  the  tooth-ache,  but  prevent  the  decay  of  the 
tooth. 


352.  Gum-boils. — A  gum-boil  is  sometimes  a  primary  flis- 
ease,  depending  on  an  inflammation  of  the  gums  from  accidental 
and  common  causes,  in  which  case  the  lancet,  or  leaving  it  to 
nature,  soon  restores  the  gum  to  a  healthy  state ;  but  it  more 
generally  arises  from  a  carious  tooth,  in  w^hich  case  extraction 
is  necessary.  If  there  be  any  constitutional  disturbance  about 
the  face,  leeches  and  purgatives,  and  the  usual  means  for  sub 
duing  inflammation  may  be  resorted  to. 

353.  Diseases  of  the  Ear. — Sometimes  ear-ache  is  connected 
with  chronic  ulceration  in  the  internal  and  external  part  of  the 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  95 

ear — wlien  injections  of  warm  water  and  soap  are  advisable. 
In  this  case,  there  is  sometimes  a  constant  foetid  discharge-r-for 
which  the  following  mixture  has  been  recommended: — Mix 
three  drachms  of  ox-gall  and  one  drachm  of  balsam  of  Peru, 
'  Put  a  drop  on  a  little  cotton  in  the  ear. 

354.  Temporary  Deafness, — If  the  ear  be  inflamed,  inject 
water  into  it  with  a  syringe,  as  warm  as  the  patient  can  bear  it, 
and.  foment  the  part  with  the  decoction  of  poppy-heads  and 
chamomile  flowers.  Should  this  not  relieve  the  pain,  a  drop 
of  oil  of  cloves  with  a  little  oil  of  almonds  should  be  dropped 
into  the  ear,  and  cotton  wool  put  into  it.  If  the  ear  dischargc^i 
much,  inject  warm  water  with  Castile  soap  into  it. 


355.  For  a  Pain  in  the  Ear, — Oil  of  sweet  almonds,  two 
drachms,  and  oil  of  amber,  four  drops.  Apply  four  drops  of 
this  mixture,  when  in  pain,  to  the  part  aflected. 


356.  Another  cure  for  the  Ear-ache, — Dip  a  little  cotton  into 
a  mixture  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds  and  laudanum,  and  put  it 
into  the  ear ;  or,  apply  a  small  poultice,  in  which  is  put  a  raw 
chopped  clove  of  garlic ;  or,  roast  a  small  onion,  and  put  as 
much  of  the  inside  into  the  ear  as  you  conveniently  can. 


357.  To  kill  Earwigs^  or  other  Insects^  which  may  accidentally 
have  crept  into  the  Ear, — Let  the  person  under  this  distressing 
circumstance  lay  his  head  upon  a  table,  the  side  upwards  that 
is  afflicted ;  at  the  same  time,  let  some  friend  carefully  drop 
into  the  ear  a  little  sweet  oil  or  oil  of  almonds.  A  drop  or  two 
will  be  sufficient,  which  will  instantly  destroy  the  insect  and 
remove  the  pain,  however  violent. 

358.  Bleeding  at  the  Nose, — In  obstinate  cases,  blow  a  little 
gum  Arabic  powder  up  the  nostrils  through  a  quill,  which  will 
immediately  stop  the  discharge. 

359.  Another  cure  for  Bleeding  at  the  Nose, — Elevating  the 
paiienfs  arm  will  often  have  the  desired  effect.  The  explanation 
is  based  upon  physiological  grounds :  the  greater  force  required 
to  propel  the  blood  through  the  vessels  of  the  arm,  when  ele- 
vated, causes  the  pressure  upon  the  vessels  of  the  head  to  be 
diminished,  by  the  increased  action  which  takes  place  in  the 


96  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

couise  of  the  brachial  arteries.     If  the  theory  be  sound,  both 
arms  should  be  elevated. 


360.  To  destroy  Corns  and  Warts, — Put  into  an  eartheu 
pipkin  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  linseed  oil,  to  which  add  one  ounce 
of  resin  and  a  little  litharge.  Warm  them  together  5  spread 
them  upon  leather,  and  apply  them  to  corns  or  warts. 

361.  To  destroy  Warts, — Dissolve  as  much  common  washing 
soda  as  the  water  will  take  up ;  wash  the  warts  with  this  for 
a  minute  or  two,  and  let  them  dry  without  wiping.  Keep  the 
water  in  a  bottle,  and  repeat  the  washing  often.  It  will  remove 
the  largest  warts. 

Caustic  is  an  effectual  though  troublesome  application.  The 
juice  of  the  common  annual  spurge  plant  is  as  efficacious  a 
remedy ;  as  is  the  bark  of  the  willow  tree,  burnt  to  ashes,  mix- 
ed with  vinegar,  and  applied  to  the  warts.  The  juice  of  the 
marigold  is  another  remedy. 

362.  A  certain  cure  for  Warts, — Steep  in  vinegar  the  inner 
rind  of  a  lemon  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  apply  it  to  the  wart. 
The  lemon  must  not  remain  on  more  than  three  hours,  and 
should  be  applied  fresh  every  day.  To  apply  acetic  acid  with 
a  camel's  hair-brush,  is  still  better. 


363.  Corr^  on  the  Feet, — These  are  usually  made  by  wearing 
shoes  over-tight ;  but,  walking  on  pavement  in  very  thin  shoes 
will  cause  corns  and  buaions,  because  of  bruising  the  feet  on 
the  hard  stones. 


364.  To  prevent  Corns  from  growing  on  the  Feet, — Easy  shoes; 
frequently  bathing  the  feet  an  lukewarm  water,  with  a  little  salt 
or  potashes  dissolved  in  it. 


365.  Sir  H,  Davyh  Corn  Solvent, — Potash,  two  parts  ;  salts 
of  sorrel,  one  part ;  each  in  fine  powder.  Mix,  and  lay  a  small 
quantity  on  the  corn  for  four  or  five  successive  nights,  binding 
it  on  with  a  rag. 


366.  To  cure  Corns, — An  effectual  remedy, — The  cause  of 
corns,  and  likewise  the  torture  they  occasion,  is  simply  friction ; 
and  to  lessen  the  friction,  you  have  only  to  use  your  toe  as  you 
do  in  like  circumstances  a  co^ch  wheel — lubricate  it  with  some 


HEALTH   AND    BEAUTY.  OT 

oily  substance.  The  best  and  cleanest  thing  to  use,  is  a  little 
sweet  oil  rubbed  on  the  affected  part  (after  the  corn  is  carefully 
pared)  with  the  tip  of  the  finger,  which  should  be  done  on  get- 
ting up  in  the  morning,  and  just  before  stepping  into  bed  at 
night.  In  a  few  days  the  pain  will  diminish,  and  in  a  few  days 
more  it  will  cease,  when  the  nightly  application  may  be  dis- 
continued. 


367.  Another  cure  for  Corns. — Place  the  feet  for  half  an  hour 
for  two  or  three  nights  successively,  in  a  pretty  strong  solution 
of  common  soda.  The  alkali  dissolves  the  indurated  cuticle, 
and  the  corn  falls  out  spontaneously,  leaving  a  small  excava- 
tion, which  soon  fills  up.     This  is  an  almost  certain  remedy. 

868.  To  cure  soft  Corns, — Dip  a  soft  linen  rag  in  turpen-. 
tine,  and  place  it  over  the  corn  night  and  morning.  In  a  few 
days  the  corn  will  disappear.  A  little  sweet  oil  rubbed  on 
them  is  often  of  great  service.  Or,  a  small  piece  of  cotton 
placed  between  the  toes  is  sometimes  efficacious ;  or,  the  juice 
or  pulp  of  a  lemon. 


869.  To  cure  Bunions  in  their  commencement, — Bind  the  joint 
tightly,  either  with  broad  tape  or  adhesive  plaster.  The  strip 
should  be  kept  on  as  long  as  the  least  uneasiness  is  felt.  It 
should  wrap  quite  round  the  foot. 

870.  Lotion  for  Chilblains, — Mix  distilled  vinegar  and  spirit 
of  mindererus,  of  each  four  ounces,  with  half  an  ounce  of  borax. 

In  common  cases  of  chilblains,  apply  pieces  of  soft  linen, 
moistened  with  spirits  of  camphor,  soap  liniment,  camphor  lini- 
ment, &;c.  When  the  swellings  break,  apply  emollient  oint- 
ments for  a  few  days.  Equal  quantities  of  sweet  oil,  lime 
water,  and  spirits  of  wine,  are  also  an  excellent  remedy  for 
chilblains 


871.  Simple  remedy  for  Chilblains, — Soak  them  in  warm  bran 
and  water,  then  rub  them  well  with  mustard-seed  flour;  but  it 
will  be  better  if  they  are  done  before  they  break. 

872.  Another  remedy, — Cut  an  onion  in  thick  slices,  and  with 
these  rub  the  chilblains  thoroughly,  on  two  or  three  nights, 
before  a  good  fire,  and  they  will  soon  disappear. 


98  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

873.  Sir  A,  Cooper* s  Chilblain  Liniment, — One  ounce  of  cam- 
phorated  spirit  of  wine,  half  an  ounce  of  liquid  subacetate  of 
lead ;  mix,  and  apply  in  the  usual  way  three  or  four  times  a 
day.  Some  persons  use  vinegar  as  a  preventive  y  its  efficacy 
might  be  increased,  by  the  addition  to  the  vinegar  of  one-fourth 
of  its  quantity  of  camphorated  spirit. 

374.  I^ote, — Those  who  are  most  liable  to  chilblains,  should, 
on  the  approach  of  winter,  cover  the  parts  most  subject  to  be 
affected,  with  woollen  gloves  or  stockings,  and  not  expose  the 
hands  or  feet  too  much  to  wet  and  cold. 


375.    To  stop  violent  Bleeding  from  a  Cut, — Make  a  paste, 
by  mixing  fine  flour  with  vinegar,  and  lay  it  on  the  cut. 


376.  An  excellent  Styptic, — The  outside  woof  of  silk-worms 
has  been  tried  with  great  success  by  several  people,  more 
especially  by  a  lady,  who,  in  mending  a  pen,  cut  her  thumb 
to  the  bone,  and  through  part  of  the  nail;  it  bled  profusely ; 
but,  by  trying  this  styptic,  and  binding  up  the  wound,  the 
hemorrhage  stopped,  and  the  wound  healed  in  three  days. 

377.  A  new  and  useful  Styptic, — Take  brandy,  or  common 
spirit,  two  ounces;  Castile  soap,  two  drachms;  potash,  one 
drachm ;  scrape  the  soap  fine,  and  dissolve  it  in  the  brandy  ; 
then  add  th^  potash,  and  mix  it  well  together,  and  keep  it 
close  stopped  from  the  air  in  a  phial.  When  you  apply  it, 
warm  it  in  a  vessel,  or  dip  pledges  of  lint  into  it,  and  the  blood 
will  immediately  congeal.  It  operates  by  coagulating  the 
blood,  both  a  considerable  way  within  the  vessels,  as  well  as 
the  extravasated  blood  without,  and  restraining,  at  the  same 
time,  the  mouths  of  the  vessels. 

It  forms  a  valuable  embrocation,  in  cases  of  tumors  or  swell- 
ings from  bruises,  by  being  frequently  rubbed  on  the  part.  It 
is  also  used  in  a  similar  manner  for  rheumatic  pains. 

378.  To  prevent  Wounds  from  mortifying, — Sprinkle  sugar 
on  them.  The  Turks  wash  fresh  wounds  with  wine,  and  sprinkle 
sugar  on  them.  Obstinate  ulcers  may  be  cured  with  sugar 
dissolved  in  a  strong  decoction  of  walnut  leaves. 

379.  To  cure  Ring^worms. — Dissolve  borax  in  water,  and 
apply  it*  at  first,  it  will  produce  a  burning  sensation  and  red- 


HEALTH   AND    BEAUTY.  9& 

ness ;  it  should  then  be  discontinued  for  a  few  days,  and  being 
resumed,  the  ring-worm  will  soon  disappear. 

To  sponge  the  head  daily  with  vinegar  and  water,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water, 
will  prevent  or  cure  ring-worms. 


380.  Another  cure  for  Ring -worms — To  one  part  of  sulphurio 
acid,  add  about  twenty  parts  of  water.  Use  a  brush  or  fea- 
ther, and  apply  it  to  the  part,  night  and  morning:.  A  y^rj 
few  dressings  will  generally  cure.  Jf  the  solution  is  too  strong, 
dilute  it  with  more  water;  and  if  the  irritation  is  excessive, 
rub  a  little  oil  or  other  softening  applicant ;  but  avoid  soap. 

While  the  patches  are  in  an  inflamed  and  irritable  condi- 
tion, it  is  necessary  to  limit  the  local  applications  to  regular 
washing  or  sponging  with  warm  water,  or  some  softening  fo- 
mentation. 


381.  Cure  for  Erysipelas, — A  simple  poultice  made  of  cran- 
berries, pounded  fine,  and  applied  in  a  raw  state,  has  proved  a 
certain  remedy. 


382.  Remedy  for  fainting, — First  place  the  patient  in  the 
horizontal  posture,  throw  cold  water  over  the  face,  an.d  bathe 
the  hands  with  vinegar  and  water ;  loosen  the  dress,  and  admit 
a  free  current  of  fresh,  cool  air.  Pungent  salts,  ether,  or  eau 
de  Cologne^  should  be  held  occasionally  to  the  nose,  and  the 
temples  should  be  rubbed  with  either  of  the  two  latter.  When 
the  patient  has  partly  recovered,  a  small  quantity  of  wine,  cold 
water,  or  ten  or  twenty  drops  of  sal-volatile  or  ether,  in  water, 
should  be  given. 


383.  Remedy  for  Fits, — If  a  person  fall  in  a  fit,  let  him  re- 
main on  the  ground,  provided  his  face  be  pale;  for  should  it  be 
fainting  or  temporary  suspension  of  the  heart's  action,  you  may 
cause  death  by  raising  him  upright,  or  by  bleeding;  but  if  the 
fiice  be  red  or  dark-colored,  raise  him  on  his  seat,  throw  cold 
water  on  his  head  immediately  ;  cold  water  is  the  best  re- 
storative. 


384.  German  method  of  preventing  Hysterics. — Caraway 
seeds,  finely  pounded,  with  a  small  proportion  of  ginger  and 
salt,  spread  ujion  bread  and  butter,  and  eaten  every  day,  espe- 


100  MgSr  Hale's  -  KECEiPTS  for  the  million. 

cially  early  m  the  morning,  and  at  night,  before  going  to  bed, 
are  successfully  used  in  Germany,  as  a  domestic  remedy 
against  hysterics. 

385.  Stomachic  Mixture,—  Camphor  julep,  one  ounce  ;  sweet 
spirit  of  nitre,  half  an  ounce  ;  oompound  tincture  of  cardamoms, 
spirit  of  anise-seed,  of  each  ^yq  drachms ;  oil  of  caraway,  twelve 
drops ;  syrup  of  ginger,  two  drachms ;  peppermint-water,  two 
drachms.  Mix.  A  table-spoonful  occasionally  in  flatulency 
and  dyspepsia. 

386.  Red  lavender  drops  for  Nervous  Attacks, — Fill  a  quart 
bottle  with  the  blossoms  of  lavender,  and  pour  on  it  as  much 
brandy  as  it  will  contain ;  let  it  stand  ten  days,  then  strain  it, 
and  add  of  nutmeg  bruised,  cloves,  mace,  and  cochineal,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  each,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  In  nervous  cases, 
a  little  may  be  taken  dropped  on  a  bit  of  sugar ;  and  in  the 
beginning  of  a  bowel  complaint,  a  tea-spoonful,  taken  in  half  a 
glass  of  peppermint  water,  will  often  prove  efficacious. 


387.  Eggs  in  Jaundice. — The  yolk  of  an  Qgg^  either  eaten 
raw,  or  slightly  boiled,  is  perhaps  the  most  salutary  of  all  the 
animal  substances.  It  is  a  natural  soap,  and,  in  all  jaundice 
cases  no  food  is  equal  to  it.  When  the  gall  is  either  too  weak, 
or^  by  accidental  means,  is  not  permitted  to  flow  in  sufficient 
quantity  into  the  duodenum,  our  food,  which  consists  of  watery 
and  oily  parts,  cannot  unite  so  as  to  become  chyle.  Such  is 
the  nature  of  the  yolk  of  an  Qgg^  that  it  is  capable  of  uniting 
water  and  oil  into  an  uniform  substance,  thereby  making  up 
for  the  deficiency  of  natural  bile. — Dr,  A.  Hunter, 

388.  Aperient  for  Children, — Gingerbread  made  with  oat- 
meal instead  of  flour,  is  a  very  useful  aperient  for  children. 


389.  Cramp, — Cramp  in  the  calves  of  the  legs  is  a  very  dis- 
agreeable complaint,  to  which  these  who  have  their  legs  con- 
fined in  tight  boots  are  subject  in  travelling.  An  effectual  pre- 
ventative of  this  pain,  is  to  stretch  out  the  heel  of  the  leg  as  far 
as  possible,  at  the  same  time  drawing  up  the  toes  towards  the 
body. 

A  garter  applied  tightly  round  the  limb  affected  will,  in  most 
oases,  speedily  remove  this  complaint.    When  it  is  more  obsti- 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  101 

nate,  a  brick  should  be  heated,  wrapped  in  a  flannel  bag,  and 
placed  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  against  which  the  person  troubled 
may  place  his  feet.  No  remedy^  however,  is  equal  to  that  ofdili- 
gent  and  long -continued  friction. 

Cramp  is  apt  to  attack  the  calves  of  the  legs  and  toes  soon 
after  retiring  to  rest.  Get  out  of  bed,  and  exercise  the  muscles 
vigorously. 


390.  For  Spasms, — Mix  four  table-spoonsful  of  camphor  julep 
and  twenty  drops  of  sal-volatile,  for  a  dose,  to  be  repeated 
twice  or  thrice  a  day. 


391.  To  apply  Leeches, — Make  the  part  clean  and  dry,  and 
dry  the  leeches  in  a  clean  cloth  ;  if  this  fail,  scratch  the  surface 
of  the  skin  with  a  point  of  a  lancet,  and  apply  the  leech  on  the 
spot,  moistened  with  the  blood.  To  apply  a  number  of  leeches, 
put  them  into  a  very  small  wine-glass,  which  hold  over  them  till 
they  are  fixed.  If  the  skin  be  much  inflamed  and  heated,  pour 
a  little  tepid  water  into  the  water  containing  the  leeches,  boi^bre 
they  are  taken  out  to  be  applied.  If  sulphur  be  taken  inter- 
nally, or  applied  externally,  leeches  will  not  bite  ;  neither  will 
they  bite  if  the  skin  be  covered  with  perspiration  ;  or  if  there 
be  tobacco  smoke  or  vinegar-vapor  in  the  room. 

All  that  is  requisite  to  stop  the  bleeding,  after  the  leech  is 
taken  away,  is  constant  pressure  on  the  spot ;  a.  piece  of  sponge 
or  cotton,  the  size  of  a  pin's  head,  is  to  be  put  upon  the  aper- 
ture, and  kept  there  by  cross  slips  of  adhesive  plaster  spread 
upon  linen,  or  the  surgeon's  strapping :  if  greater  pressure  be 
necessary,  some  linen  may  be  placed  between  the  stopper  and 
the  plaster.  

392.  A  useful  embrocation  for  Rheumatism^  Lumbago,  or 
Strains, — Half  an  ounce  of  strongest  camphorated  spirit,  one 
ounce  spirits  of  turpentine,  one  raw  egg^  half  pint  best  vinegar. 
Well  mix  the  whole,  and  keep  it  closely  corked.  To  be  rubbed 
in  three  or  four  times  a  day.  For  rheumatism  in  the  head,  or 
face-ache,  rub  all  over  the  back  of  the  head  and  neck,  as  well 
as  the  part  which  is  the  immediate  seat  of  pain. 

393.  For  Gout  and  Rheumatism, — Mix  in  one  pound  of 
honey  one  ounce  of  flour  of  sulphur,  half  an  ounce  of  cream  of 
tartar,  two  drachms  of  ginger,  in  powder,  and  half  a  nutmeg, 
grated ;  for  rheumatism,  add  half  a  drachm  of  gum-guaiacum, 


102  MRS.    HALE's    KECEIPT3    FOR    THE    MILLION.    . 

powdered.  The  full  dose  is  two  tea-spoonsful  at  bed-time  and 
early  in  the  morning,  in  a  tumbler  of  hot  water.  This  is  "  the 
Chelsea  Pensioners'  recipe.'' 

394.  Influenza. — Influenza  is  an  Italian  word,  and  means 
what  we  express  in  English  by  almost  the  same  word,  influence. 
The  word  as  applied  to  this  disease,  originated  from  the  belief 
held  by  our  ancestors,  of  the  influence  of  the  stars  upon  human 
affairs.  When  a  complaint  suddenly  appeared,  and  affected 
great  numbers  without  an  obvious  cause,  the  visitation  was 
ascribed  to  the  stars.  Whatever  might  have  been  the  origin 
of  the  name,  it  is  an  appropriate  one,  for  the  Influenza  certainly 
springs  from  some  pervading  influence.  It  may,  for  anything 
we  can  prove  to  the  contrary,  be  occasioned  by  some  subtle 
poison  diffused  throughout  the  atmosphere,  which  medical  men 
call  a  miasm.  Bad  air,  rising  from  marshy  ground,  occasions 
ague;  and  bad  air  arising  from  drains  in  towns,  from  cess-pools, 
and  other  collections  of  filth,  gives  rise  to  the  worst  kinds  of 
fever.  And  it  is  not  a  matter  of  chance  :  the  ague  will  continue 
in  marshy  countries  till  these  are  drained  ;  and  in  the  dirty 
quarters  of  a  large  town,  there  is  sure  to  be  typhus  fever.  If 
we  cannot,  in  these  cases,  see,  taste,  or  touch  the  bad  air,  or 
even  smell  it,  we  know  that  fens  poison  the  air  with  a  matter 
that  causes  ague,  and  animal  refuse  with  what  causes  fever  and 
many  other  diseases.  But,  the  existence  of  a  peculiar  poison 
in  the  air  in  influenza,  is  very  doubtful.  It  is  likely,  however, 
and  generally  believed  by  medical  men,  that  influenza  arises 
from  certain  states  or  changes  in  the  air  connected  with  heat 
and  moisture.  Now,  though  it  appears  in  hot  weather  and 
cold,  in  dry  and  wet,  it  may  still  depend  on  certain  conditions 
of  the  weather,  just  as  a  person  will  sometimes  take  a  cough 
in  a  warm  moist  day,  and  again  in  a  dry  east  wind ;  and  just, 
in  fact,  as  we  see  a  fog,  which  depends  on  atmospheric  changes, 
produced  under  different  circumstances.  The  brisk  air  of  the 
country  often  gives  town-people  a  head-cold,  and  country  people 
sometimes  suffer  in  the  same  way  when  they  visit  town.  Dur- 
ing every  season,  certain  people  have  "head-colds,"  coughs, 
and  "feverish  colds."  These  are  produced  by  certain  states, 
of  climate  acting  on  certain  states  of  constitution.  At  particular 
seasons  such  complaints  abound—at  others  they  abound  still 
more ;  and  again,  from  some  singularity,  they  prevail  so  much, 
that  people  say,  there  is  an  Influenza. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  103 

In  simple  cases,  confinement  to  a  pure  and  temperate  air, 
warm  drinks,  and  a  warm  bath,  or  at  least  a  warm  foot-bath, 
with  an  extra  blanket,  and  a  little  more  rest  than  usual,  keep- 
ing to  mild  food  and  toast  and  water,  and  taking,  if  necessary, 
a  dose  of  aperient  medicines — is  all  that  is  required.  In  serious 
eases,  the  domestic  treatment  must  become  professional.  Mus- 
tard plasters  to  the  back,  relieve  the  head-ache.  Squills,  and 
other  medicines,  "  loosen ''  the  outstanding  cough.  Bark  and 
wine,  and  even  cold  baths,  are  sometimes  requisite  for  the 
weakness  left  behind.  But  these  things  can  only  be  used  with 
discrimination  by  a  regular  professional  man. 


395.  For  the  Breath, — Persons  who  suffer  from  difficulty  of 
breathing  and  oppression  on  the  chest,  will  find  great  relief 
from  the  following  simple  contrivance.  A  tea-kettle  is  to  be 
kept  boiling,  either  over  a  fire  or  over  a  common  night-lamp 
or  nursing- candlestick.  A  tin  tube  is  to  be  fitted  on  to  the 
spout  of  the  tea-kettle,  of  such  length  and  form  as  to  throw 
the  steam  in  front  of  the  sick  person,  who  will  then  breathe 
in  it.  This  prevents  the  distressing  sensation  occasioned  by 
inhaling  the  cold  night  air,  which  will  be  felt  by  persons  suffer- 
ing from  asthma  or  water  on  the  chest,  and  which  is  not  ob- 
viated either  by  clothing  or  fire. 


396.  To  relieve  Asthma, — Soak  some  blotting-paper  in  a  strong 
solution  of  saltpetre ;  dry  it,  take  a  piece  about  the  size  of  your 
hand,  and  on  going  to  bed,  light  it,  and  lay  it  upon  a  plate  in 
your  bed-room.  By  doing  so,  persons,  however  badly  afflicted 
with  asthma,  will  find  that  they  can  sleep  almost  as  well  as 
when  in  health.  (Many  persons  have  experienced  relief  from 
the  use  of  this  specific.) 


397.  Relief  for  Asthma — another  way, — Mix  two  ounces  of 
the  best  honey  with  one  ounce  of  castor  oil,  and  take  a  tea- 
spoonful,  night  and  morning. 


398.  Garyle  for  Sore  Throat, — On  twenty  five  or  thirty  leaves 
of  the  common  sage,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  let  the 
infusion  stand  half  an  hour.  Add  vinegar  enough  to  make  it 
moderately  acid,  and  honey  to  the  taste.  Use  it  as  a  gargle, 
several  times  a  day.  This  combination  of  the  astringent  and 
emollient  principle  seldom  fails  to  produce  the  desired  effect. 


104  MKS.    UAlaE3    EECEirTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

399.  To  prevent  Lamps  from  being  pernicious  to  Asthmatui 
persons^  or  others  liable  to  Complaints  of  the  Chest. — Let  a  sponge, 
three  or  four  inches  in  diameter,  be  moistened  with  pure  water, 
and  in  that  state  be  suspended  bj  a  string  or  wire,  exactly 
over  the  flame  of  the  lamp,  at  the  distance  of  a  few  inches; 
this  substance  will  absorb  all  the  smoke  emitted  during  the 
evening  or  night;  after  which,  it  should  be  rinsed  in  warm 
water,  by  which  means  it  will  be  again  render,^d  fit  for  use. 


400.  The  use  of  Tar-water  in  expanding  the  Lungs  of  J^uhlie 
SjyeaJcers^  d:c. — It  has  been  found  by  the  experience  of  many, 
that  drinking  tar- water  very  much  deterges  and  opens  the 
lungs,  and  thereby  gives  a  very  sensibly  greater  ease  in  speak- 
ing. A  quart  of  tar  is  to  be  stirred  six  minutes  in  a  gallon  of 
water ;  but  if  there  be  somewhat  less  tar,  it  may  do  as  well, 
especially  at  first,  to  try  how  it  sits  on  the  stomach.  Take 
about  one-fourth  of  a  pint,  at  four  several  times,  at  a  due  dis- 
tance from  meals.  Begin  taking  it  in  the  spring  for  about 
fourteen  days,  and  continue  it  for  a  greater  length  of  time,  as 
occasion  may  require. 


401.  To  prevent  Danger  from  Wet  Clothes, — Keep  if  possible 
in  motion,  and  take  care  not  to  go  near  a  fire  or  into  any  very 
warm  place,  so  as  to  occasion  a  sudden  heat,  till  some  time 
after  you  have  been  able  to  procure  dry  clothes. 


402.  Cold  and  Damp  Feet. — Nothing  can  be  more  erroneous 
than  the  notion  that  by  pouring  spirits  into  boots  and  shoes, 
when  the  feet  are  wet,  will  prevent  the  efl[ects  of  cold  ;.  on  the 
contrary,  the  practice  often  produces  cold,  inflammation,  and 
obstruction  in  the  bowels.  When  the  spirit  reaches  the  feet,  it 
immediately  evaporates :  the  stronger  it  is,  the  more  quickly  it 
evaporates,  and  the  greater  is  the  cold  produced. 

403.  For  Whooping  Cough. — Mix  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  pare- 
goric elixir,  one  table- spoonful  of  oxymel  of  squills,  ana  the 
same  quantity  of  w^ater  and  mucilage  of  gum-arabic.  A  tea- 
spoonful  may  be  takqn  three  or  four  times  a-day,  or  when 
the  cough  is  troublesome. 

Treat  the  whooping  cough  with  the  same  care  as  you  wouM 
any  other  cough,  Keep  the  children  warmly  clothed,  and  dryly 
iodgedj  and  in  the  house,  at  all  times,  except  in  warm  sunny 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  105 

days,  when  air  and  exercise  in  moderation,  observing  that  they 
do  not  overheat  themselves,  may  do  good.  Put  their  feet  in  a 
pan  of  warm  \^ater  just  before  they  go  to  bed,  and  be  careful 
to  wipe  them  dry  and  wrap  them  in  flannel.  During  the  day 
they  must  wear  woollen  stockings  and  thick-soled  shoes.  Let 
their  drink  be  toast-water,  tea  and  raspberry  vinegar  mixed 
with  water,  two  table-spoonfuls  to  a  half-pint,  or  less  if  it  be 
very  sharp.  Red  or  black  currant-jelly  dissolved  in  watei 
makes  a  pleasant,  cool  drink.  Be  sure  you  give  no  kind  of 
quack  medicines — but  an  occasional  dose  of  simple  opening 
medicine,  if  the  bowels  are  confined  ;  and  a  quarter  of  a  grain, 
or  half  a  grain  of  plain  ipecacuanha  powder  in  a  tea-spoonful  of 
gruel  or  jelly  at  bed-time.  Rub  the  chest  and  between  the 
shoulders,  with  equal  parts  of  rum  and  turpentine,  adding  a  lit- 
tle oil,  if  it  is  too  harsh  for  the  skin.  The  child  might  suck  an 
ipecacuanha  lozenge  two  or  three  times  a-day.  Effervescent^ 
saline  draughts  are  very  grateful  and  beneficial,  where  there  is 
not  only  continual  nausea,  but  frequent  sickness  from  the 
spasmodic  nature  of  the  cough.  If  it  be  attended  with  pain  in 
the  chest  or  side,  seek  advice  from  a  medical  fhan  without 
delay. 


404.  For  common  Coughs, — Mix  one  ounce  of  oil  of  almonds, 
one  drachm  of  powdered  gum  arabic,  one  ounce  of  syrup,  and 
one  gunce  and  a  half  of  water  ;  take  a  tea-spoonful  or  two  oc- 
casionally. 


405.  Winter  Cough, — Mix  two  ounces  of  oxymel  of  stramo- 
nium with  six  ounces  of  the  decoction  of  Iceland  moss;  take 
a  dessert-spoonful  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. 


406.  For  Cough  and  Hoarseness. — Beat  well  a  newly  laid 
Qgg^  and  stir  it  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  warmed, 
to  which  add  a  table-spoonful  of  capillaire. 

A  piece  of  anchovy  will  almost  instantly  restore  the  just 
tone  of  voice  to  any  one  who  has  become  hoarse  by  public 
speaking. 


407.  White  Mixture  for  Coughs, — Beat  well  the  yolk  of  an 
esrg,  mix  with  it  in  a  mortar  half  a  drachm  of  powdered 
Fpermaceti,    a  little  loaf  sugar  and   twenty    drops   of  lauda- 


106  MKS.    HALE's    KECEirXS    FOR    THE    MILLION, 

num  (tincfcure  of  opium)  ;  add  a  gill  of  water,  and  mix  well :  a 
table-spoonful  of  this  mixture  will  relieve  an  obstinate  cough. 

Or,  mix  half  a  pint  of  almond  emulsion,  two  drachms  of 
syrup  of  poppies,  the  same  of  oxymel  of  squills,  and  one 
drachm  of  powder  of  gum  tragacanth ;  two  table-spoonfuls  to 
be  taken  often. 


408.  Colds. — A  daily  exposure  to  the  outward  air  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  secure  us  against  the  injurious  influence  of 
our  variable  climate.  For  cure  of  catarrh,  reduce  the  amount 
of  food,  take  exercise,  keep  the  bowels  open,  and  bathe  the  feet 
in  warm  water  at  bed-time. — Henderson, 


409.  For  a  Cold  in  the  Head. — What  is  called  a  head-bath 
is  useful.  Fill  a  wash-hand  basin  with  boiling  water,  and  add 
an  ounce  of  flour  of  mustard ;  then  hold  the  head,  covered  with 
a  cloth  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  steam,  over  the  basin  as 
long  as  any  steam  arises. 


410.  For  a  troublesome  Cough.^ — Take  of  treacle  and  the  best 
white  wine  vinegar  six  table-spoonfuls  each ;  add  forty  drops  of 
laudanum ;  mix  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  bottle.  A  tea-spoon- 
ful to  be  taken  occasionally  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. 


411.  For  a  sudden  Hoarseness. — Mix  one  tea-spoonful  of 
sweet  spirfts  of  nitre  in  a  vv  ine-glassful  of  water.  This  may  be 
taken  two  or  three  times  a  day. 


412.  Hoarseness. — A  piece  of  flannel,  dipped  in  brandy,  and 
applied  to  the  chest,  and  covered  with  a  dry  flannel,  is  to  bo 
worn  all  night.  Four  or^  six  small  onions,  boiled,  and  put  on 
buttered  toast,  and  eaten  for  supper,  are  likewise  good  for  colds 
on  the  chest. 


413. —  Childrems  Coughs. — A  few  tea-spoonfuls  of  warm 
treacle  taken  occasionally,  and  particularly  at  bed-time,  or 
when  the  cough  is  troublesome,  will  be  found  beneficial,  espe- 
cially for  infants  and  children. 

414.  For  a  "  hacking'^'  Coz^^A.— Dissolve  an  ounce  of  mutton 
6uet  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  drink  it  warm. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  107 

415.  For  a  Cough, — Mix  vinegar  and  treacle  in  equal  quan- 
tities, and  let  a  tea-spoonful  be  taken  occasionally,  when  the 
cough  is  troublesome.  This  is  the  recipe  of  Dr.  James,  of 
Carlisle. 


416.  Quinsy^  or  Ulcerated  Sore  Throat, — Bake  or  roast  three 
or  four  large  onions  or  six  smaller  ones,  till  soft.  Peel  them 
quickly,  and  beat  them  flat  with  a  rolling-pin  or  glass  bottle. 
Then  put  them  immediately  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  that  will 
reach  from  ear  to  ear,  and  about  three  inches  deep.  Apply  it 
speedily,  and  as  warm  as  possible,  to  the  throat.  Keep  it  on 
day  and  night,  changing  it  when  the  strength  of  the  onions  ap- 
pears to  be  exhausted,  and  substituting  fresh  ones.  Flannel 
must  be  worn  round  the  neck  after  the  poultice  is  removed. 


417.  Saline  Draught, — Dissolve  one  scruple  of  carbonate  of 
potassa,  (salt  of  tartar),  in  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and 
three  table- spoonfuls  of  water ;  sweeten  with  lump  sugar,  and 
drink  while  it  effervesces.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for 
sore  throats,  nausea,  &;c. 


418.  Another, — Dissolve  one  drachm  each  of  nitric  acid  and 
carbonate  of  potassa  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water ;  add 
one  ounce  each  of  syrup  of  orange-peel  and  spirit  of  nutmeg, 
and  mix.  Two  table-spoonfuls  to  be  taken  in  fevers  and  inflam- 
matory sore  throats. 


419.  To  make  Gargles, — For  relaxed  sore  throat,  mix  five 
ounces  of  Cayenne  pepper  gargle,  two  ounces  of  infusion  of 
roses,  and  one  ounce  of  syrup  of  roses. 

Or,  mix  with  the  Cayenne  pepper  gargle,  three  ounces  of 
vinegar,  three  drachms  of  tincture  of  myrrh,  and  four  drachms 
of  honey  of  roses. 

For  inflammatory  sore  throats,  mix  six  ounces  of  infusion  of 
roses,  one  ounce  of  tincture  of  myrrh,  and  one  ounce  of  honey 
of  roses. 

Or,  mix  one  drachm  and  a  half  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of 
honey,  and  six  ounces  of  rose  water. 

For  scorbutic  gums,  mix  six  ounces  of  infusion  of  roses,  one 
ounce  of  borax,  and  one  ounce  of  honey  of  roses. 

To  make  the  Cayenne  pepper  gargle,  pour  six  ounces  of  boil- 


108  MRS.  kale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

ing  water  upon  one  scruple  of  Cayenne  pepper;  cover  it,  and 
let  it  stand  for  three  hours. 


420.  To  cure  Hiccough, — This  is  caused  by  flatulency,  indi- 
gestion, and  acidity.  It  may  be  relieved  generally  by  a  sudden 
fright  or  surprise,  or  any  sudden  application  of  cold ;  also  by 
drinking  cold  water  slowly,  eating  a  small  piece  of  ice,  taking 
a  pinch  of  snuif,  or  anything  that  excites  coughing.  Or,  take 
one  tea-spoonful  of  common  vinegar. 

421.  A  simple  cure  for  Dysentery — which  has  never  failed, — 
Take  some  butter  off  the  churn,  immediately  after  being  churn- 
ed, just  as  it  is,  without  being  salted  or  washed ;  clarify  it  over 
the  fire  like  honey.  Skim  oft*  all  the  milky  particles  when 
melted  over  a  clear  fire.  Let  the  patient  (if  an  adult)  take  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  the  clarified  remainder,  twice  or  thrice  within 
the  day.  This  has  never  failed  to  effect  a  cure,  and  in  many 
cases  it  has  been  almost  instantaneous. 


422.  ^or  Diarrhoea, — Fill  a  tea-cup  with  dry  flour,  press  it 
down,  and  cover  it  with  a  buttered  cloth,  tying  it  very  closely ; 
boil  it  three  hours,  when  turn  it  out  to  cool  into  a  hard  mass. 
Grate  a  tea  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of  it  into  peppermint  water 
for  children,  or  into  a  glass  of  port  wine  for  adults. 


423.  CJialJc  Mixture, — Mix  half  an  ounce  of  prepared  chalk, 
the  same  of  lump  sugar,  and  one  ounce  of  powdered  gum 
Arabic,  with  a  pint  of  water.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for 
diarrhoea. 


424.  Fig  Paste  for  Constipation, — Cut  up  small  one  pound 
of  figs,  and  mix  it  with  two  ounces  of  senna  carefully  picked 
over,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses ;  stew  it  till  it  becomes 
thoroughly  mixed  and  firm  ;  then  cool  it.  A  piece  iabout  half 
as  large  as  a  fig  will  generally  be  sufficient. 

425.  Laxatives, — Infusions  of  Epsom  salts  and  senna  are 
often  taken  as  laxatives,  or  opening  medicines.  It  is  a  well- 
known  fact,  that  a  tea-spoonful  of  salts  in  a  tumbler  of  cold 
water,  if  drunk  before  breakfast,  is  as  effectual  a  dose  as  the 
usual  ounce.  Senna,  too,  if  steeped  in  cold  water,  is  equally 
efficacious,  and  free  from  the  nauseous  bitter  taste  which  it  has 
when  infused  in  boiling  water. 


HEALTH   AND    BEAUTT.  109 

426.  To  cure  Boils. — Boil  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  one  table- 
spoonful  of  shot;   pour  it  off,  and  drink  it  in  small  doses. 

427.  To  cure  a  Felon, — A  felon  generally  appears  on  the 
end  of  the  fingers  or  thumbs;  it  is  extremely  painful  for  weeks, 
and  sometimes  for  months,  and,  in  most  cases,  cripples  or  dis- 
figures the  finger  or  thumb  that  falls  a  victim  to  it.  But  it 
can  easily  be  cured,  if  attended  to  in  time.  As  soon  as  the 
pain  is  felt,  take  the  thin  white  skin  of  an  egg^  which  is  found 
inside  next  to  the  shell ;  put  it  round  the  end  of  the  finger  or 
thumb  affected,  and  keep  it  there  until  the  pain  subsides.  As 
soon  as  the  skin  becomes  dry,  it  will  be  very  painful,  and 
likely  continue  so  for  half  an  hour  or  more ;  but  be  not  alarmed. 
If  it  grows  painful,  bear  it ;  it  will  be  of  short  duration  in  com- 
parison to  what  the  disease  would  be.     A  cure  will  be  certain. 


BURNS  AND  SCALDS. 

428.  We  mention  several  remedies  which  have  obtained 
popular  reputation  in  these  accidents,  and  which  are  valuable 
not  only  as  giving  more  or  less  relief,  but  as  being  generally 
at  hand,  or  to  be  readily  procured  in  every  dwelling.  They 
are,  wheat  flour,  which  may  be  thicl^ly  sprinkled  over  the 
injured  parts  with  a  common  kitchen  dredger,  till  a  perfect 
crust  is  formed — an  excellent  application.  Finely-scraped 
chalk  or  magnesia,  applied  in  the  same  way.  These  act  both 
by  excluding  the  atmospheric  air,  and  absorbing  the  fluid  se- 
creted by  the  vessels  of  the  inflamed  surface.  Another  appli- 
cation reported  to  be  very  efficacious  in  allaying  the  pain,  is  a 
piece  of  lint  wetted  with  a  saturated  solution  of  carbonate  of 
soda.  A  poultice  of  grated  raw  turnip  or  potato,  applied  cold, 
is  quickly  productive  of  ease  in  slight  burns,  but  requires  renew- 
ing often  enough  to  keep  tip  the  sensation  of  coldness. 


429.  Burns, — Apply  to,  or  wrap  round  the  burnt  part,  some 
folds  of  cotton  bought  in  sheets  ;  however  severe  the  pain  may 
be,  it  will  abate  in  a  few  hours.  Should  blisters  arise,  they 
may  next  day  be  carefully  pricked  with  a  needle,  so  as  to  break 
the  skin  as  little  as  possible ;  and  the  cotton  kept  on  till  the 
cure  is  effected. 


110  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

430.  A  Temedy  for  a  Burn  or  Scald, — Apply  immediately  a 
thick  covering  of  wool  to  the  burnt  part,  and  bind  it  on  tight ; 
in  the  course  of  half  an  hour  very  little  pain  will  be  felt,  and 
scarcely  any  blister  will  remain.  As  this  remedy  is  so  simple, 
no  housekeeper  should  be  without  loose  wool  at  hand,  in  case 
of  an  accident.  This  remedy  was  discovered  by  the  child  of  a 
woolcomber  having  been  dreadfully  scalded :  its  mother  laid  it 
in  a  basket  of  newly  carded  wool,  whilst  she  ran  for  a  doctor ; 
when  she  returned,  she  found  the  child  fast  asleep  amongst  the 
wool,  and  when  it  awoke  the  excessive  pain  had  subsided.  We 
have  frequently  tried  it,  and  invariably  with  success. 


431.  For  Burns  and  Scalds. — Plunge  the  injured  part  into 
cold  spring  or  ice  water ;  or,  lay  on  it  pounded  ice  wrapped 
in  linen. 

Or,  dissolve  four  ounces  of  alum  in  a  quart  of  hot  water; 
dip  a  cloth  into  it,  and  lay  it  on  the  part.  As  soon  as  it  be- 
comes hot  and  dry,  repeat  the  application. 

Apply  to  a  burn,  bruise,  or  cut,  the  moist  surface  of  the 
inside  coating  of  the  shell  of  a  raw  egg ;  it  will  adhere  of  itself, 
and  heal  without  pain. 


432.  Efficacy  of  Vinegar  in  curing  Burns  and  Scalds, — Vinegar 
is  a  great  antiseptic  and  corrector  of  putrescence  and  mortifica- 
tion. The  progressive  tendency  of  burns  of  the  unfavorable 
kind,  or  those  that  are  ill-treated,  is  to  putrescence  and  mortifi- 
cation. When  the  outward  skin  is  not  broken,  it  may  be  freely 
used  every  hour  or  two ;  where  the  skin  is  broken,  and  if  it 
gives  pain,  it  mu^t  be  gently  used.  But,  equal  parts  of  tepid 
vinegar  and  water  applied  every  three  or  four  hours,  is  the 
best  rule  to  be  directed  by. 

433.  Vitriol  Accidents. — For  a  burn  by  vitriol,  or  any  simi- 
lar cause,  lay  on,  with  a  feather,  the  white  of  eggs  mixed  with 
powdered  chalk,  and  immediate  relief  will  follow. 

Or,  immediately  after  the  accident,  plunge  the  scalded  limb 
in  spirit  of  turpentine,  and  keep  it  there  a  few  minutes. 

Or,  dissolve  in  water  or  fresh  soap-boilers'  lees,  a  little  soda 
or  potash,  and  apply  it  instantly,  and  it  will  prevent  all  injury 
to  the  person  or  clothing. 


HEALTH   AND    BEAUTY.  Ill 


FEVERS. 


434.  Feverish  symptoms  in  young  children  may  be  reduced^ 
and  often  entirely  cured  by  sponging  in  tepid  or  cold  water, 
according  to  the  age  and  condition  of  the  patient.  Rest,  in  a 
clean  bed,  after  sponging,  is  necessary.  Should  the  fever  con- 
tinue, a  gentle  emetic  may  be  given.  Cold  water  is  the  best 
beverage  in  fevers,  but  if  very  thirsty,  give  the  child  a  little 
warm  tea. 


435.  Dr,  Dickson's  cure  for  a  Fever. — When  a  man  is  hot, 
and  his  skin  dry  all  over,  no  matter  what  the  cause  be,  you 
may  bring  his  condition  to  the  state  of  health  by  throwing  cold 
water  over  him.  You  may  do  the  same  by  an  emetic.  Oh  ! 
an  emetic  has  a  wonderful  power  in  fever;  and  the  old  physi- 
cians treated  all  fevers  in  the  first  instance  by  emetics.  They 
did  not  trouble  themselves  much  about  the  cause.  The  state 
of  the  patient  was  what  they  cared  most  about.  When  he  was 
cold,  they  warmed  him,  sometimes  with  one  thing,  sometimes 
with  another.  When  hot,  they  cooled  him  ;  not  in  the  Sangra- 
do  fashion  of  these  days,  by  draining  him  of  his  life's  blood ; 
but  by  the  employment  of  an  emetic,  or  by  sponging  him  over 
with  cold  water  ! 


436.  Uasy  and  almost  instantaneous  cure  for  the  Fever  and 
Ague, — An  hour  or  two  before  the  fit  comes  on,  take  a  new- 
laid  eggj  in  a  glass  of  vinegar  or  brandy,  and  go  to  bed  imme- 
diately. 

This  very  simple  recipe  has  cured  a  great  many,  after  more 
celebrated  preparations  have  proved  uu successful. 

437.  Cure  for  Yellow  Fever, — The  New  Orleans  Tropic 
gives  the  following  recipe,  which  is  said  to  be  used  with  great 
success  in  Mexico,  in  cases  of  yellow  fever :  "A  tumbler  two- 
thirds  full  of  olive  oil,  well  mixed  with  the  juice  of  two  limes^ 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  fine  table  salt,  is  the  common  remedy  in 
that  country  ;  that  he  has  seen  it  used  in  hundreds  of  cases, 
many  of  them  the  most  desperate  he  ever  saw.  and  that  he  never 
knew  it  fail  to  produce  a  cure  in  a  solitary  instance !  It  some- 
times causes  tlie  patient  to  vomit;  in  such  cases  it  should  be 
repeated  until  the  stomach  will  retain  it. 


113  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  MILLIOy. 

4oS.  Treatment  of  Scurlet  Fever — important  prescription,-^ 
Dr.  Lindsly,  of  Washington,  strongly  recommends  the  mode  of 
treatment  of  scarlet  fever,  resorted  to  by  Dr.  Schneemann, 
physician  to  the  King  of  Hanover.  It  is  as  follows,  and  exceed- 
ingly simple  : 

Treatment  of  Scarlet  Fever  by  inunction. — From  the  first  day 
of  the  illness,  and  as  soon  as  we  are  certain  of  its  nature,  the 
patient  must  be  rubbed  mornino:  and  evening  over  the  whole 
body  with  a  piece  of  bacon,  in  such  a  manner  that,  with  the 
exception  of  the  head,  a  covering  of  fat  is  everywhere  applied. 
In  oi*der  to  make  this  rubbing-in  somewhat  easier,  it  is  best  to 
take  a  piece  of  bacon  the  size  of  the  hand,  cfioosing  a  part  still 
armed  with  the  rind,  that  we  may  have  a  firm  grasp.  On  the 
soft  side  of  this  piece  slits  are  to  be  made,  in  order  to  allow  the 
oozing  out  of  the  tat.  The  rubbing  must  be  thoroughly  per- 
formed, and  not  too  quickly,  in  order  that  the  skin  may  be  regu- 
larly saturated  with  the  fat.  The  beneficial  results  of  the 
application  are  soon  obvious;  with  a  rapidity  bordering  on 
magic,  all,  even  the  most  painful  symptoms  of  the  disease  are 
allayed ;  quiet,  sleep,  good  humor,  appetite,  return ;  and  ther« 
remains  only  the  impatience  to  quit  the  sick  room. 

439.  Inflammatory  Fevers, — In  diseases  termed  "  inflamma- 
tory," what  measure  so  ready  or  so  efficacious  as  to  dash  a 
pitcher  or  two  of  cold  water  over  the  patient — Cold  Affusion, 
as  it  is  called  ?  Whilst  servinor  in  the  armv,  I  cured  hundreds 
of  inflammatory  fevers  in  this  manner — fevers,  that,  in  the 
higher  ranks  of  society,  under  the  bleeding  and  starving  sys 
terns — would  have  kept  an  apothecary  and  physician — to  say 
nothing  of  nurses  and  cuppers — visiting  the  patient  twice  or 
khrice  a -day  for  a  month,  it  he  happened  to  live  so  long. 

Gentlemen,  with  the  cold  dash  you  may  easily, 

*'  While  others  meanly  take  whole  months  to  slay," 
Produce  a  cure  m  half  a  summer's  dav. — Db,  1)ick3ox. 


440.  Beverage  for  Fevers — Boil  two  drachms  of  powdered 
alum  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  strain.  The  draught  is  a  wine- 
glassful. 

441.  Jtfustard  Poultices, — Make  a  bag  of  the  size  required 
of  fine,  close  muslin  ;  mix  equal  quantities  of  mustard  and  flour, 
(or  a  larger  proportion  of  mustard,  should  the  case  require  it). 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  113 

with  boiling  water,  until  of  a  proper  consistency.  Fill  the  bag 
with  it;  sew  it  up,  and,  covering  it  with  a  handkerchief  or  piece 
of  clean,  soft  linen,  apply  it  to  the  parr  atfected.  When  it  has 
been  on  long  enougli,  take  it  off,  and  lay  ou  another  piece  of 
soft  linen. 


442.  Bread  Poultice, — Mr.  Abernethy  directs  i»  biead  and 
water  poultice  to  be  made  as  follows : — Put  half  a  pint  of  hut 
water  into  a  pint  basin ;  add  to  this  as  much  of  the  crumb  of 
bread  as  the  water  will  cover,  then  place  a  plate  over  the  basin, 
and  let  it  remain  about  ten  minutes;  stir  the  bread  about  in 
the  water,  or,  if  necessary,  chop  it  a  little  with  the  edge  of  a 
knife,  and  drain  off  the  water,  by  holding  the  knife  on  the  top 
of  the  basin,  but  do  not  press  the  bread  as  is  usually  done; 
then  take  it  out  lightly,  spread  it  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
thick  on  some  soft  linen,  and  lay  it  upon  the  part.  If  it  be  a 
wound,  you  may  place  a  bit  of  lint  dipped  in  oil  beneath  tlie 
poultice.  Thei*e  is  nothing  better  than  the  bread  poultice  for 
broken  surfaces. 


443.  Linseed  Poultice — Is  made  bv  simplv  mixinfij  linseed 
meal  into  a  paste  with  hot  water. 

444.  Mancigcmciit  of  BlUters, — Spre^id  the  phxster  thinly  on 
paper  or  linen,  and  rub  over  it  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil.  In 
this  way  the  blister  acts  speedily,  and  with  le^s  irritation  tliaii 
usual. 

445.  Simple  Ointment, — This  is  made  by  melting  in  a  pip- 
kin, by  the  side  of  the  fire,  without  boiling,  one  part  of  yellow 
or  white  wax,  and  two  parts  of  hog's  lard  or  olive  oil. 

44t>.  Spermaceti  Ointment. — This  consists  of  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  white  wax,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  spermaceti, 
and  three  ounces  of  olive  oil,  melted  as  before.  Tliis  is  tht» 
common  dressing  for  a  blist<:M-. 

447.  Elder- fiowcr  Ointment, — This  is  the  mildest,  blandest^ 
and  most  cooling  ointment  which  can  be  used;  and  it  is  very 
suitable  for  anointing  the  face  or  neck  when  sun-burnt>.  It  is 
made  of  fresh  elder-tiowers,  stripped  from  the  stalks,  two  p<.)unds{ 
uf  which  are  sinunered  in  an  equal  quantity  of  hog's-lard  till 
8 


A14  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  milltov^ 

they  become  crisp ;   after  which,  the  ointment,  whilst  fluid,  is 
strained  through  a  coarse  sieve. 


448.  Calamine  Ointment^  or  Turner  s  Cerate. — This  consists 
of  half  a  pound  of  yellow  wax  and  a  pint  of  olive  oil,  which  are 
to  be  melted  together ;  this  being  done,  half  a  pound  of  cala- 
mine powder  is  to  be  sifted  in,  and  stirred  till  the  whole  be 
completely  mixed. 


449.  Sulphur  Ointment, — This  is  made  by  rubbing  well  to- 
gether three  ounces  of  flowers  oi  sulphur  and  half  a  pound  of 
hog's  lard.  This  ointment,  if  properly  applied,  is  a  certain 
cure  for  that  nastiest  of  all  nasty,  and  most  easily-caught  dis- 
ease, the  itch,  which,  although  generally  found  among  poor 
people,  occasionally  steals  into  the  houses  of  the  wealthy.  The 
proper  mode  of  managing  it  is,  for  the  infected  to  rub  himself 
well  all  over  with  the  ointment,  night  and  morning,  for  three 
days,  during  which  time  he  must  wear,  without  change,  some 
old  body-linen,  stockings,  and  gloves,  and  lie  in  a  pair  of  old 
sheets  or  blankets.  Washing  in  the  least  degree  is  to  be  care- 
fully avoided  as  the  plague,  for  it  will  protract  the  cure.  On 
the  fourth  day  let  him  go  into  a  warm  bath,  wash  himself 
clean,  and  he  will  then  be  found  quite  well.  Everything  which 
had  been  worn  during  the  cure  should  be  burnt,  sheets  and  all ; 
but  the  blankets  may  be  scoured. 


PLASTERS,  BLISTERS,  OINTMENTS,  &;c. 

450.  The  beneficial  influence  obtained  from  all  such  local  ap- 
plications depends  upon  the  change  of  temperature  they  are 
capable  of  producing.  Their  results  will  vary  with  constitu- 
tions. Most  patients,  who  suffer  from  chronic  disease,  point  to 
a  particular  spot  as  the  locality  where  they  are  most  incom- 
moded with  ''  cold  chills."  •  This  is  the  point  for  the  application 
of  the  galbanum  or  other  "  warm  plaster."  A  plaster  of  this 
kind  to  the  loins  has  enabled  me  to  cure  a  host  of  diseases  that 
had  previously  resisted  every  other  mode  of  treatment.  The 
same  application  to  the  chest,  when  the  patient  complained  of 
chilliness  in  that  particular  part,  has  materially  aided  me  in  the 
treatment  of  many  cases  of  phthisis.  In  both  instances,  where 
heat  was  the  more  general  complaint,  cold  sponging  has  been 
allowed  by  an  equally  beneficial  efifect. 


HEALTH   AND   BEAUTY.  115 

The  ingredients  of  plasters,  blisters,  ointments,  lotions,  &c., 
what  are  they  but  combinations  of  the  agents  with  which  we 
combat  fever?  Their  beneficial  influence  depends  upon  the 
change  of  motion  and  temperature  which  they  produce  by  theij 
electrical  or  chemical  action  on  the  nerves  of  the  part  to  which 
they  are  directed.  Cantharides  will  not  blister  the  dead — they 
have  very  little  effect  even  on  a  dying  man ! — Dr  Dickson^ s 
Lectures, 


451.  Liquid  Opodeldoc, — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  camphor  in 
a  little  spirits  of  wine,  and  two  ounces  of  soft  soap  in  a  little 
water  ;  put  these  into  a  bottle,  add  half  a  drachm  of  oil  of  rose- 
mary and  the  same  of  oil  of  thyme  ;  shake  them  well  together; 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  shake  it  occasion- 
ally, for  a  few  days.  This  is  an  ex^llent  remedy  for  bruises, 
sprains,  chilblains,  &;c. 

452.  Extract  of  Arnica,  for  Bruises,  Sprains^  Burns ^  dtc, — 
Take  one  ounce  of  arnica  flowers,  dried ;  that  prepared  by  the 
Shakers  is  considered  the  best ;  and  put  them  in  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle ;  pour  just  enough  scalding  water  over  them  to  moisten 
them,  and  afterwards  about  a  pint  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  spirits 
of  wine.  In  case  of  a  burn  or  bruise,  &;c.,  wet  a  cloth  in  the 
arnica  and  lay  it  on  the  part  affected.  Renew  the  application 
occasionally,  and  the  pain  will  soon  be  removed. 


453.  For  a  Sprain, — Mix  equal  parts  of  spirit  of  camphor, 
distilled  vinegar,  and  turpentine,  and  rub  the  part  affected. 

Cold  water  applications  are  excellent  for  sprains ;  as,  to 
bathe  the  part  in  cold  water,  to  pour  cold  water  upon  it,  or  to 
put  bandages  wet  in  cold  water  around  it. 

Extract  of  arnica,  applied  to  a  sprain,  will  remove  the  pain 
in  a  short  time. 


454.  Contusions  or  Bruises, — In  slight  bruises,  and  those  not 
likely  to  be  followed  by  much  inflammation,  nothing  more  is 
usually  necessary  than  to  bathe  the  part  in  cold  water,  or  with 
spirit,  as  eau  de  Cologne,  brandy,  &;c.,  mixed  with  an  equal 
proportion  of  vinegar  and  water.  In  more  severe  cases,  how- 
ever, and  where  the  accident  is  near  an  important  part,  as  the 


116  MRS.    bale's    receipts    rOR    THE    2IILLiOX. 

eye,  or  any  of  the  joints,  it  becomes  a  desirable  object  to  pre- 
vent the  approach  of  inflammation.  This  is  to  be  attempted 
by  the  application  of  leeches,  repeating  them  according  to  cir- 
cumstances ;  purgatives  and  a  low  diet  may  become  necessary. 
In  the  last  stage  of  a  bruise,  where  there  is  merely  a  want  of 
tone  in  the  parts,  and  swellings  from  the  effused  blood,  &c., 
friction  should  be  employed,  either  simply,  or  with  any  com- 
mon liniment,  as  opodeldoc.  Wearing  a  bandage,  pumping 
cold  water  on  the  part,  succeeded  by  warm  friction,  also  a  satu- 
rated solution  of  common  salt  in  water,  have  each  been  found 
beneficial.  The  roots  of  bryony  and  Solomon's  seal,  bruised 
and  applied  as  a  poultice,  are  efficacious  in  hastening  the  disap 
pearance  of  the  lividity  of  bruises. 


455.  lAme  Water, — Pour  three  quarts  of  water  upon  eight 
pounds  of  unslaked  lime ;  let  stand  half  an  hour,  when  add 
three  gallons  of  water,  and  pour  it  off. 

It  is  useful  in  cases  of  derangement  of  the  digestive  organs. 


456.  Walnut  Water. — This  is  recommended  as  a  remedy  in 
subduing  nausea  and  vomiting,  if  administered  in  doses  of  a 
wine-glassful  every  half-hour.  It  is  distilled  from  green  walnuts, 
angeiica-stieds,  and  brandy. 

457.  JJfies  of  Borax. — Powdered  borax,  mixed  with  honey, 
or  conserve  of  roses,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  inside  sores  of 
the  mouths  of  childjen. 

If  a  little  of  the  mixture  be  dissolved  in  warm  \tater,  it  will 
form,  when  cold,  an  efficacious  gargle  for  an  ulcerated  sore 
throat. 

If  a  weak  solution  of  borax  in  rose-water  be  constantly  ap 
plied,  by  means  of  a  fine  linen  cloth,  over  the  redness  which 
often  affects  the  noses  of  delicate  persons,  it  will  relieve  the 
sense  of  heat,  and  remove  the  redness.  Many  other  spots  on 
the  face  may  be  similarly  removed. 

It  is  likewise  a  very  useful  application  to  chilblains. 


458.  The  virtues  of  Sage. — This  valuable  herb  was  held  in 
such  high  esteem  among  ihe  ancients,  that  they  have  left  us  a 
Latin  verse,  which  signifies — 

*'  Why  should  a  man  die  whilst  he  has  sage  in  his  garden  P^ 


liEALTII    Alsh    BEAVTY,  117 

It  IS  reckoned  admirable  as  a  cordial,  and  to  sweeten  and 
cleanse  the  blood.  It  is  good  in  nervous  cases,  and  is  given  in 
fevers,  with  a  view  to  promote  perspiration.  With  the  addition 
of  a  little  lemon-juice,  it  is  very  grateful  and  cooling. 


459.  Saje  Tea, — Wood  sage,  which  grows  naturally,  is  the 
finest  kind  ;  with  a  little  alum  it  makes  an  excellent  gargle  for 
a  sore  throat.     It  may  be  made  as  tea,  but  is  better  if  boiled. 


460.  Senna  Tea, — Macerate  for  an  hour,  in  a  covered  vessel, 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  senna,  a  drachm  of  ginger,  sliced,  and 
a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  the  dose  is  from  one-half  to  a  wine- 
glassful.  Or,  mix  two  drachms  of  senna,  with  a  little  Bohea 
tea,  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  add,  when  pour- 
ed off  clear,  a  little  sugar  and  milk. 

461.  Chamomile  ^^a.— Take  of  chamomile  flowers  one  ounce, 
boiling  water,  one  quart ;  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  strain. 

Chamomile  tea  is  well  known  as  an  emetic,  when  taken  in  a 
tepid  state.  In  some  parts  of  England,  a  strong  infusion  of 
chamomile  is  frequently  taken  at  bed4irae,  as  hot  as  it  can  be 
swallowed,  when  it  produces  perspiration,  and  next  morning 
acts  as  a  purgative.  It  is  also  there  considered  as  one  of  the 
best  remedies  for  indigestion,  colic,  pains  and  obstructions  of 
the  bowels,  especially  when  arising  from  cold.  A  cup  of  coffee 
taken  hot  on  an  empty  stomach,  will  frequently  be  as  efficacious 
as  the  chamomile,  in  either  of  the  above  cases. 

A  small  cupful  of  the  tea,  cold,  taken  in  the  morning,  fasting, 
is  often  serviceable  for  indigestion.  Chamomiles  are  also  em- 
ployed in  fomentations,  their  greatest  use  being  to  retain  the 
heat  of  the  application. 


462.  Linseed  Tea, — Pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  upon 
one  ounce  of  linseed,  and  two  drachms  of  liquorice-root,  sliced ; 
let  it  stand  six  hours. 


463.  Mint  Tea, — Mint,  to  be  used  as  tea,  should  be  cut 
when  just  beginning  to  flower,  and  should  be  dried  in  the  shade. 
The  young  leaves  are  eaten  in  salads,  and  some  eat  them  as  the 
leaves  of  sage,  with  bread  and  butter. 

464.  Nitre  is  a  cheap  and  valuable  medicine,  both  cooling 
and  purifying  to  the  blood.     In  the  feverishncss  that  attend:? 


118  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  milijon. 

a  cold,  from  seven  to  ten  grains  of  purified  nitre,  in  a  glass  of 
water,  may  be  taken  two  or  three  times  a  day,  with  safety  and 
advantage.  For  old  wounds,  such  as  are  commonly  called 
"  a  bad  leg,"  great  benefit  will  be  derived  from  taking  a  solu 
tion  of  nitre,  prepared  thus : — In  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  dis- 
solve two  ounces  of  saltpetre ;  of  which  take  a  table-spoonful 
twice  a  day.  If  it  should  occasion  pain,  a  little  hot  ginger-tea 
will  soon  give  relief. 


465.  To  make  Verjuice, — The  acid  of  the  juice  of  the  crab  or 
wilding  is  called  by  the  country  people,  verjuice,  and  is  much 
used  in  recent  sprains,  and  in  other  cases,  as  an  astringent  or 
repellant. 

466.  Medicines  in  Travelling, — In  case  of  change  of  food  dis- 
agreeing with  the  stomach,  dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of  Epsom 
salts  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  as  warm  as  it  can  be  drunk,  and 
repeat  the  dose  every  half-hour,  until  it  operates. 

For  diarrhoea,  or  acidity  of  stomach,  mix  one  drachm  of 
compound  powder  of  kino,  with  half  an  ounce  of  compound 
powder  of  chalk  ;  divide  into  six  powders,  and  take  one  or  two 
a  day,  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
brandy. 

467.  To  prevent  Sea-sickness. — Pass  a  broad  belt  round  the 
body,  and  place  within  it,  on  the  region  of  the  stomach,  a 
pad  stufTtid  with  wool  or  horse-hair  ;  this,  when  tightly  braced, 
restrains  the  involuntary  motion  of  the  stomach,  occasioned  by 
the  lurching  of  the  vessel.  During  sickness,  very  weak  cold 
brandy  and  water  will  be  found  the  best  means  of  allaying  the 
heat  and  irritation. 

The  frequent  use  of  any  sea-sickness  preventive  is,  however, 
attended  with  dano;er. 


468.  Valuable  2^'i^operties  of  Cherry-tree  Gum, — The  gum  that 
exudes  from  the  trunk  and  branches  of  the  cherry-tree  is  equal 
to  gum-arabic.  Hasselquist  relates  that,  duriag  a  siege,  more 
than  an  hundred  men  Vv'ere  kept  alive  for  two  months  nearly, 
without  any  other  sustenance  than  a  little  of  this  gum  taken 
into  the  mouth  sometimes,  and  suffered  gradually  to  dissolve. 

469.  How  to  get  Sleep, — How  to  get  sleep  is  to  many  persons 
a  matter  of  high  importance.     Nervovis  persons  who  are  trou 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  119 

Died  with  wakefulness  and  exdtability,  usually  have  a  strong 
tendency  of  blood  on  the  brain,  with  cold  extremities.  The 
pressure  of  the  blood  on  the  brain  keeps  it  in  a  stimulated  or 
wakeful  state,  and  the  pulsations  in  the  head  are  often  painful. 
Let  such  rise  and  chafe  the  body  and  extremities  with  a  brush 
or  towel,  or  rub  smartly  with  the  hands  to  promote  circulation 
and  withdraw  the  excessive  amount  of  blood  from  the  brain, 
and  you  will  sleep  in  a  few  moments.  A  cold  bath,  or  a 
sponge  bath  and  rubbing,  or  a  good  run,  or  a  rapid  walk  in  the 
open  air,  or  going  up  or  down  stairs  a  few  times,  just  before 
retiring,  will  aid  in  equalizing  circulation,  and  promoting  sleep_ 
These  rules  are  simple  and  easy  of  application  in  castle  oi 
cabin,  and  minister  to  the  comfort  of  thousands  who  would 
freely  expend  money  for  an  anodyne  to  promote  "Nature's 
sweet  restorer,  balmy  sleep." 

470.  Remedy  for  Bad  Breath, — Take  from  five  to  ten  drops 
of  muriatic  acid,  in  an  ale-glassful  of  barley-water,  and  add  a 
little  lemon-juice  and  lemon-peel  to  flavor ;  mix  for  a  draught 
to  be  taken  three  times  a  day,  for  a  month  or  six  weeks  at 
least,  and,  if  effectual,  it  may  be  continued  occasionally, ' 
Another  medicine  of  this  kind,  which  has  often  proved  benefi- 
cial when  the  stomach  has  been  wrong,  and  the  bowels  costive, 
is  the  following :  Take  one  drachm  of  sulphate  of  magnesia, 
two  drachms  of  tincture  of  calumba,  one  ounce,  and  a  half  of 
infusion  of  roses ;  make  a  draught,  to  be  taken  every  morning, 
or  every  other  morning,  an  hour  before  breakfast,  for  at  least  a 
month. 


471.  Corpulence, — Those  who  are  afflicted  with  corpulence 
should  not  allow  themselves  above  six  hours'  sleep  in  the 
twenty-four.  They  should  take  as  much  exercise  as  possible, 
and  avoid  cream,  malt  liquors  and  soups — at  least  until  they 
have  succeeded  in  reducing  their  bulk.  Salt  provisions  are 
good,  having  a  tendency  to  promote  perspiration,  and  carry  off 
fat.  Soda  water  is  also  beneficial.  Recipe  :  Take  Castile  soap, 
in  the  form  of  pills,  or  electuary,  of  from  one  to  four  drachms 
dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  soft  wator,  when  going  to 
bed.  But  let  not  our  lovely  girls  abuse  .their  constitutions  by 
drinking  vinegar  for  this  purpose,  for  consumption  has  often 
been  produced  by  that  habit. 


120  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  miluox. 

472.  Leanness. — This  is  not  a  disease  ;  on  the  contrary,  lean 
people  are  generally  healthy,  muscular,  strong,  and  active,  and 
remarkable  for  a  keen  appetite.  But  when  there  appears  a 
diminution  of  strength — when  the  spirits  sink,  and  the  food  does 
not  freely  digest — then  leanness  is  the  sign  of  lurking  disease. 
Such  patients  should  take  a  cup  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow 
every  morning,  or  cold  milk,  with  two  raw  fresh  eggs  beaten 
up  with  it.  A  pint  of  the  best  porter  or  stout  at  dinner,  and 
the  same  at  supper.  Tea  is  better  than  coffee,  and  salad  with 
strong  supplies  of  oil,  not  much  vinegar,  are  recommended. 

473.  Cure  for  Stammering. — Impediments  in  the  speech  may 
be  cured,  where  there  is  no  malformation  of  the  organs  of  ar- 
ticulation, by  perseverance  for  three  or  four  months  in  the 
simple  remedy  of  reading  aloud,  with  the  teeth  closed,  for  at 
least  two  hours  in  the  course  of  each  day. 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 

474.  Acids. — These  cause  great  heat,  and  sensation  of  burn- 
ing pain,  from  the  mouth  down  to  the  stomach.  Remedies, 
magnesia,  soda,  pearlash,  or  soap,  dissolved  in  water ;  then  use 
stomach-pump  or  emetics. 


475.  Alcohol., — First  cleanse  out  the  stomach  by  an  emetic? 
then  dash  cold  water  on  the  head,  and  give  ammonia  (spirits 
of  hartsfiorn.) 


47G.  AlJcalies.^—Qest  remedy  is  vinegar. 


477.  Ammonia. — Remedy,  lemon-juice  or  vinegar,  afterwards 
milk  and  water  or  flaxseed  tea. 


478. — Arsenic. — ^Remedies,  in  the  first  place  evacuate  the 
stomach,  then  give  the  white  of  eggs,  lime-water,  or  chalk  and 
water,  charcoal  and  the  preparations  of  iron,  particularly 
hydrate. 


479.  Belladonna.,  or  Xight  Henbane. — Give  emetics,  and  then 
plenty  of  vinegar  and  water  or  lemonade. 


HEAtTH    AND    BEAUTr.  121 

480.  Charcoal, — In  poisons  by  carbonic  gas,  remove  the  pa- 
tient to  open  air,  dash  cold  water  on  the  head  and  body,  and 
stimulate  nostrils  and  lungs  by  hartshorn,  at  the  same  time 
rubbing  the  chest  briskly. 

481.  Corrosiw  Sublimate, — Give  white  of  eggs  freshly 
mixed  with  wator,  or  give  wheat  flour  and  water,  or  soap  and 
water  freely. 


482.  Creosote, — White  of  eggs  and  the  emetics. 

483.  Laudanum, — Same  as  opium. 


484.  Lead,      White  Lead  and   Sugar  of  Lead, — Remedies, 
alum,  cathartic,  such  as  castor  oil  and  Epsom  salts,  especially. 


485.  Mushrooms^  when  poisonous, — Give  emetics,  and  then 
plenty  of  vinegar  and  water,  with  dose  of  ether,  if  handy. 

486.  Nitrate  of  Silver^  {lunar  caustic), — Give  a  strong  solu 
tion  of  common  salt,  and  then  emetics. 


487.  Nitrate  of  Potash^  or  Saltpetre, — Give   emetics,   then 
copious  draughts  of  flaxseed  tea,  milk  and  water,  and  other 


soothing  drinks. 


488.  Opium, — First  give  a  strong  emetic  of  mustard  and 
water,  then  strong  coflee  and  acid  drinks,  dash  cold  water  on 
the  head. 


489.  Oxalic  Acid, — Frequently  mistaken  for  Epsom  Salts. 
Remedies,  chalk,  magnesia,  or  soap  and  water  freely,  then 
emetics. 


490.  Prussic  Acid, — When  there  is  time,  administer  chlo- 
rine, in  the  shape  of  soda  or  lime.  Hot  brandy  and  water 
Hartshorn  and  turpentine  also  useful. 


491.  Snake  Bites,  <&c, — Apply  immediately  strong  hartshorn, 
and  take  it  internally;  also,  give  sweet  oil,  and  stimulants 
freely.  Apply  a  ligature  tight  above  the  part  bitten,  and  then 
apply  a  cupping-glass. 


122  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  ^the  million. 

492.   Tartar  Umetic.—Give  large  doses  of  tea  made  of  galls, 
Peruvian  bark,  or  white  oak  bark. 


493.   Tobacco, — First  an  emetic,  then  astringent  teai  then 
stimulants.    • 


494.  Verdigris. — Plenty  of  white  of  egg  and  water. 

495.  Wliite  Vitriol, — Give  the  patient  plenty  of  milk  and 
water. 

In  almost  all  cases  of  poisoning,  emetics  are  highly  useful, 
and  of  those,  one  of  the  very  best,  because  most  prompt  and 
ready,  is  the  common  mustard  flour  or  powder,  a  spoonful  of 
which,  stirred  up  in  warm  water,  may  be  given  every  five  or 
ten  minutes,  until  free  vomiting  can  be  obtained. 

Emetics  and  warm  demulcent  drinks,  such  as  milk  and 
water,  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  tea,  chalk  water,  &;c.,  should  be 
administered  without  delay.  The  subsequent  management  of 
the  case  will  of  course  be  left  to  a  physician. 


496.  To  prevent  Death  from  the  Bite  of  Venemous  Animals, — 
From  observations  made  by  Dr.  Bancroft,  it  is  found,  that  in 
South  America,  where  the  most  venomous  serpents  abound, 
a  very  tight  ligature,  instantly  made  after  the  bite,  between  the 
part  bitten  and  the  trunk  of  the  body,  will  prevent  immediate 
danger,  and  allow  time  for  proper  means  of  remedy,  either  by 
excision  of  the  whole  joint,  just  above  the  ligature,  or  by  topical 
applications  upon  the  part  bitten. 

For  instance,  if  the  bite  should  be  upon  the  end  of  the  finger, 
a  tight  ligature  of  small  cord  should  immediately  be  made  be- 
yond the  next  joint  of  the  finger. 

If  the  bite  is  on  any  part  of  the  hand,  the  ligature  should 
le  mside  above  the  wrist,  by  means  of  a  garter  or  cord,  lapped 
c^c\  eral  times  round  the  arm,  and  rendered  as  tight  as  possible, 
1  y  a  small  stick  thrust  betwixt  the  folds  of  the  cord  or  garter, 
and  twisted  round  very  hard,  to  prevent  the  circulation  of  the 
blood  betwixt  the  part  bitten  and  the  other  part  of  the  body. 
Ligatures  of  the  same  kind,  applied  by  any  one  present,  or  the 
man  himself,  will  frequently  save  a  person's  life,  where,  by 
accident,  an  artery  in  any  of  the  limbs  is  wounded,  and  no  sur 
geon  is  at  hand. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  123 

.  497.  Prevention  of  Hydrophobia, — As  there  has  been  hitherto 
no  remedy  discovered  which  can  be  said  to  possess  a  specific 
control  over  this  dreadful  malady,  and  therefore  little  hope  can 
be  entertained  of  a  cure  for  it,  our  best  endeavors  should  be 
directed  to  the  preventive  treatment.  This  is  to  be  commenced, 
then,  by  completely  cutting  out  the  whole  wound  as  soon  as 
possible  after  the  bite  of  a  suspected  animal.  After  this,  bleed- 
ing should  be  encouraged  by  immersion  in  warm  w^ater,  or  the 
application  of  a  cupping-glass.  Caustic  should  next  be  applied 
to  every  part  of  the  wound,  which  is  then  to  be  covered  with 
a  poultice,  and  suffered  to  heal  by  granulation,  or  be  kept  open, 
and  made  to  suppurate,  by  irritating  ointments.  The  excision 
should  never  be  omitted,  even  though  the  bitten  part  have 
healed,  and  let  the  interval  since  its  occurrence  be  what  it  may. 
As  for  any  of  innumerable  so-called  specifics,  there  is  not  one 
that  is  worth  a  moment's  trial. 

498.  To  alleviate  the  Pain  occasioned  by  the  Sting  of  Gnats, — 
The  disagreeable  itching  occasioned  by  the  sting  of  these  insects, 
may  be  removed  by  volatile  alkali,  or  immediately  rubbing 
and  washing  the  part  affected  with  cold  water. 

At  night,  to  rub  with  fuller's  earth  and  w^ater,  lessens  the 
inflammation. 


499.  Simple  and  effectual  cure  for  those  who  may  accidentally 
have  swallowed  a  Wasp>. — Instantly,  on  the  alarming  accident 
taking  place,  put  a  tea-spoonful  of  common  salt  in  your  mouth, 
which  will  instantaneously  not  only  kill  the  wasp,  but  at  the 


same  time  heal  the  sting. 


500.  For  the  Sting  of  a  Wasp  or  Bee, — Spread  over  the  part 
a  plaster  of  salad  oil  and  common  salt;  if  oil  be  not  at  hand, 
the  salt  may  be  used,  moistened  with  water  or  vinegar.  Or, 
keep  the  part  constantly  moi§t  with  a  rag  dipped  in  sal-volatile 
and  cold  water,  as  strong  as  can  be  borne  without  raising  the 
skin.  Or,  immediately  after  taking  out  the  sting,  get  an  onion 
and  bruise  it,  and  apply  it  to  the  stung  place,  and  it  will  afford 
immediate  relief.  Or,  a  washerwoman's  blue-bag,  applied  in 
the  same  manner,  will  have  a  like  effect. 


501.  Stiyig  of  a  Ntttlc. — Rub  the  part  affected  with  balm, 
rosemary,  mint,  or  any  other  aromatic  herb,  and  the  smart 
will  soon  cease 


]24  MRS.    IIALI^'S    IlECfilPTS    FOR    TttEl    MILLIOX4 


BATHS  AND  BATHING. 

502.  The  best  materials  for  constructing  baths,  are  slabs  of 
polished  marble,  bedd-ed  with  water-tight  cement,  in  a  wooden 
case,  and  carefully  united  at  the  edges.  But,  as  white  or  veined 
marble  baths  are  apt  to  get  yellow  or  discolored  by  frequent 
use,  and  cannot  easily  be  cleaned,  large  Dutch  tiles,  or  square 
pieces  of  white  earthenware,  are  sometimes  substituted ;  these, 
however,  are  with  ditliculty  kept  water-tight,  so  that  marble  is 
altogether  preferable.  Copper,  or  tinned  iron  plates,  are  also 
used ;  the  former  is  more  expensive  at  the  outset,  but  far  more 
durable  than  the  latter,  which  is  also  liable  to  leakage  at  the 
joints,  unless  excellently  made.  Both  copper  and  iron  should 
be  well  covered,  in  and  outside,  with  several  coats  of  paint. 
Wooden  tubs — square,  oblong,  or  oval — are  sometimes  used 
for  warm  baths,  and  are  cheap  and  convenient;,  but  the  w^ood 
contracts  a  mouldy  smell,  and  there  is  great  difficulty  in  pre- 
venting shrinkage  in  them,  and  keeping  them  water-tight. 

The  fittest  place  for  baths,  is  the  bed-room  floor ;  they  are 
sometimes  p>laced  in  the  basement  story,  which  is  cold  and 
damp,  and  in  all  weather  disagreeable. 

Due  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  warming  and  ventilation 
of  the  bath-room.  A  temperature  of  70  degrees,  by  the  ther- 
mometer, should  be  kept  up  in  it ;  and  ventilation  is  requisite, 
to  prevent  the  moisture  settling  upon  the  walls  and  furniture. 

An-'improvement  in  the  construction  of  baths,  is  a  slightly 
hollowed  space  at  one  end,  to  receive  the  head  of  the  bather, 
so  as  to  prevent  that  sensation  of  cramp  w^iich  is  often  expe- 
rienced from  the  ordinary,  abrupt  shape  of  a  bath. 

The  hand  is  a  very  uncertain  test  for  the  heat  of  water,  and 
should,  therefore,  not  be  relied  on  in  preparing  a  bath ;  but  a 
thermometer  should  be  employe^},  which  will  denote  the  actual 
temperature,  thus : — 

Cold  bath,  from  32^  to    75^  of  Fahrenheit. 
Tepid    "         ''     75   to    92    ''  " 

Warm  "         "      92   to    98    " 
Hot       "         "      98    to  114    "  " 

Vapor   "         "    100    to  140    " 


(( 


503.   Hand  Shower-Bath. — An  excellent  liand  shower-bath 
for  children,  has  been  invented.     It  consists  of  a  metal  vessel. 


HEALTH   AND    BEAUT V.  125 

ci>ntaining  about  a  gallon,  the  bottom  of  which  is  pierced  with 
holes,  while  the  upper  part  is  open,  and  provided  with  a  handle. 
"When  intended  to  be  used,  the  vess<el  is<  iiuniersed  in  a  pail  of 
water,  and  it  quickly  tills  from  the  lower  part.  The  thun\b  is 
placed  over  the  aperture  at  the  apex,  which  prevents  all  escape 
of  water.  It  may  be  held  at  a  convenient  distance  over  the 
child,  and  the  moment  the  thumb  is  removed,  there  falls  a  i^ 
fr**^hing  shower,  which  may  be  stopped  instantiUioously,  by 
placing  the  thumb  over  the  upper  opening. 

504.  Simple  Va})or  Bath, — Wrap  the  patient  in  blankets, 
which  fasten  closely  about  the  neck,  leaving  the  head  exposed: 
then  place  him  in  a  chair,  under  which  set  a  basin  or  deep  dish, 
with  half  a  pint  of  spirits  ot'  wine,  or  whisky,  which  should  be 
ignited :  close  the  blankets  to  the  floor,  and  in  a  few  minutes 
the  patient  will  be  in  a  profuse  perspiration,  and  should  be  pui 
to  bed  between  warm  blankets. 

505.  Advantages  of  Bafhina, — It  is  a  fact  officially  recorded, 

that  during  the  terrible  visitations  of  cholera  in  France,  out  of 
nearly  U>,*2''2S  subscribers  to  the  public  baths  of  ^Paris,  Bor- 
deaux, and  Mai*scilles,  only  two  deaths  among  them  were 
ascribed  to  choleriu  We  doubt  whether  there  exists  a  more 
elfectual  preventive  of  disease  of  every  kind,  mid  a  greater  pro- 
moter of  good  health  at  all  times,  than  the  practice  of  daily 
bathin:^. 


500.  L^^'c\?  of  Hot  Water, — The  efficacv  of  hot  ^-ater,  on  many 
occasiims  in  lite,  cannot  be  too  generally  known.  It  is  an  ex- 
cellent gargle  for  a  bad  sore  throat,  or  quinsy.  In  bruises,  hot 
water,  by  immersigu  and  fomentation,  will  remove  pain,  and 
prevent  discoloration  and  stitfness.  It  has  the  same  etfect  after 
a  blow.  It  should  be  applied  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  as  hot 
as  it  can  be  borne.  .  Insertion  in  hot  water  will  also  cure  that 
troublesome  and  very  painful  aihnent,  the  whitlow. 


507.  Good  cffWts  of  Bathinp, — "I  am  otien  asked,  what  baths 
arc  safest — as  if  everything,  by  its  litness  or  untitness,  is  not 
safe,  or  the  revei^c.  The  value  of  all  baths  depends  upon  their 
fitness ;  and  that,  in  many  instances,  can  only  be  known  by 
trial.  It  depends  upon  constitution,  more  than  upon  the  name 
of  a  disease,  whether  particular  patients  shall  be  benelitcd  by 


]26  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

one  bath  or  another.  Generally  speaking,  when  the  skin  is  hot 
and  dry,  a  cold  bath  will  do  good ;  and  when  chilly,  a  hot  bath* 
But  the  reverse  sometimes  happens.  The  cold  stage  of  ague, 
may  at  once  be  cut  short  by  a  cold  bath.  I  have  seen  a  shiver- 
ing hypochondriac  dash  into  the  cold  plunge  bath,  and  come 
out,  in  a  minute  or  two,  perfectly  cured  of  all  his  aches  and 
whimseys.  But,  in  cases  of  this  nature,  everything  depends 
upon  the  glow  or  reaction  which  the  bath  produces ;  and  that 
has  as  much  to  do  with  surprise  or  shock  as  with  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  bath.  I  have  seen  a  person  with  a  hot,  dry  skin, 
go  into  a  warm  bath,  and  come  out  just  as  refreshed  as  if  he 
had  taken  a  cold  one.  In  that  case,  the  perspiration  which  it 
excited,  must  have  been  the  principal  means  of  relief. 

"  So  far  as  my  own  experience  goes,  I  prefer  the  cold  and 
tepid  shower-baths,  and  the  cold  plunge-bath,  to  any  other  ;  but 
there  are  cases  in  which  these  disagree,  and  I,  therefore,  oc- 
casionally order  the  warm  or  vapor-bath  instead." — Dr,  Dickson. 

508.  Diet  for  Patients.  — "  I  am  every  day  asked  by  my  pa- 
,  tients,  what  diet  they  should  take.  I  generally  answer  by  the 
question,  '  How  old  are  you  V  Suppose  they  say,  Forty — 
*  Forty  !'  I  rejoin  :  'you  who  have  had  forty  years'  experience 
of  what  agrees  and  disagrees  with  you — ^how  can  you  ask  me 
who  have  no  experience  of  the  kind  in  your  case  whatever?' 
Surely,  gentlemen,  a  patient's  experience  of  what  agrees  and 
disagrees  with  his  own  particular  constitution,  is  far  better  than 
any  theory  of  yours  or  mine.  Why,  bless  my  life !  in  many 
chronic  diseases,  the  diet  which  a  man  can  take  to-day,  would 
be  rejected  with  disgust  to-morrow ;  under  such  circumstances, 
would  you  still,  according  to  common  medical  practice,  tell  a 
sick  person  to  go  on  taking  what  he  himself  found  worried  him 
to  death  ?     Gentlemen,  1  hope  better  things  of  you. 

"The  only  general  caution  you  need  give  your  patients  on 
the  subject  of  diet,  is  moderation;  moderation  in  using  the 
things  which  they  find  agree  with  themselves  best.  You  may 
direct  them  to  take  their  food  in  small  quantities  at  a  time,  at 
short  periodic  intervals — intervals  of  two  or  three  hours,  for 
example;  and  tell  them  to  take  the  trouble  to  masticate  it 
properly  before  they  swallow  it,  so  as  not  to  give  a  weak 
stomach  the  double  work  of  mastication  and  digestion — these 
processes  being,  even  in  health,  essentially  distinct.  Unless 
properly  comminuted  and  mixed  with  the  saliva,  how  can  you 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  127 

expect  the  food  to  be  anything  but  a  source  of  inconvenience 
to  persons  whom  the  smallest  trifle  will  frequently  discom- 
pose ]" — Dr.  Dickson^ s  Lectures. 

509.  Abstinence^  or  Starvation, — Beware  of  carrying  this  too 
far ! — for  "  abstinence  engenders  maladies."  So  Shakspeare 
said,  and  so  nature  will  tell  vou,  in  the  teeth  of  all  the  doctors 
in  Europe !  Abstinence  may  produce  almost  every  form  of 
disease  which  has  entered  into  the  consideration  of  the  phy- 
sician.— Ibid, 


510.  The  Blood  is  the  Life — never  be  Bled  ! — "  He  who  loses 
a  pint  of  blood,  loses  a  pint  of  his  life.  Of  what  is  the  body 
composed  ?  Is  it  not  of  blood,  and  blood  only  %  What  fills 
up  the  excavation  of  an  ulcer  or  an  abscess  %  What  re-produces 
the  bone  of  the  leg  or  thigh,  after  it  has  been  thrown  off  dead, 
in  nearly  all  its  length  ?  what  but  the  living  blood,  under  the 
vito-electrical  influence  of  the  brain  and  nerves !  How  does 
the  slaughtered  animal  die?  Of  loss  of  blood  solely.  Is  not 
the  blood,  then,  in  the  impressive  language  of  Scripture,  '  the 
life  of  the  flesh  V  How  remarkable,  that  while  the  value  of 
the  blood  to  the  animal  economy  should  be  thus  so  distinctly 
and  emphatically  acknowledged,  blood-letting  is  not  even  once 
alluded  to,  among  the  various  modej  of  cure  mentioned  in  the 
sacred  volume.  We  have  'balms,'  'balsams,'  'baths,'  'charms,' 
'physics,' — 'poultices,'  even — but  loss  of  blood,  never!  Had 
it  been  practised  by  the  Jews,  why  this,  omission  ?  Will  the 
men  who  now  so  lavishly  pour  out  the  blood,  dispute  its  im- 
portance in  the  animal  economy  %  Will  they  deny  that  it  forms 
the  basis  of  the  solids  ?  that  when  the  body  has  been  wasted 
by  long  disease,  it  is  by  the  blood  only  it  can  recover  its  healthy 
volume  and  appearance  ?" — Dr.  Dickson's  Lectures. 


THE  TOILET. 

511.  Personal  beauty  is  the  gift  of  nature,  but  its  preserva* 
tion  depends  much  on  the  cave  of  its  possessor.  Beauty  may 
also  be  cultivated  and  enhanced ;  even  plainness  may  be  im- 
proved, and  the  defects  that  sickness,  accidents,  and  age  impress 
on  the  human  features  and  form,  may  be  greatly  remedied  by 
simple  means,  and  attention  to  a  few  important  rules. 


128  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

The  first  requisite  for  the  preservation  and  improvement  of 
personal  beauty  is  good  temper.  The  teachings  of  the  New 
Testament,  if  you  follow  its  precepts,  will  insure  you  this 
grace.  The  second  requirement  is  good  health.  The  most  im- 
portant rules  for  its  preservation  and  recovery  are  given  in  this 
chapter.  The  third  requisite  comprises  attention  to  neatness, 
and  that  general  care  of  the  person  which  the  rules  and  receipts 
we  here  subjoin,  will  aid  in  making  complete. 

512.  Of  the  Hair, — It  is  a  great  mistake  to  plait  the  hair  of 
children  under  eleven  or  twelve  years  of  age.  The  process  of 
plaiting  more  or  less  strains  the  hairs  in  their  roots  by  pulling 
them  tight;  tends  to  deprive  them  of  their  requisite  supply  of 
nutriment;  and  checks  their  growth.  The  hair  of  girls  should 
be  cut  rather  short,  and  allowed  to  curl  freely.  When  they 
are  about  eleven  or  twelve,  the  hair  should  be  twisted  into  a 
coil,  not  too  tight,  nor  tied  at  the  end  with  thin  thread,  but  with 
a  piece  of  riband. 


513.  Do  not  Shave  the  Head, — Shaving  the  head  is  always 
injurious  to  the  hair,  the  bulbs  being  frequently  destroyed  by 
the  process ;  and  washing  frequently  with  an  alkaline  prepara- 
tion, such  as  soap  and  water,  is  decidedly  objectionable,  for 
that,  as  well  as  sea-water,  is  very  apt  to  change  the  color  of  the 
hair. 


514.  To  purify  and  beautify  the  Hair, —  An  excellent  means 
of  k'eeping  the  hair  sweet,  clean,  glossy,  and  curly,  is  to  brush 
it  with  a  rather  hard  brush  dipped  by  the  surface  only  in  eau 
de  Portugal  ("  Portugal  water").  In  order  to  have  it  fresh  and 
of  fine  quality,  take  a  pint  of  orange  flower  water,  a  pint  of  rose 
water,  and  half  a  pint  of  myrtle  water.  To  these  put  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  distilled  spirit  of  musk,  and  an  ounce  of  spirit 
of  ambergris.  Shake  the  whole  well  together,  and  the  water 
will  be  ready  for  use.  Only  a  small  quantity  should  be  made 
at  a  time,  as  it  does  not  keep  long,  except  in  moderate  weather, 
being  apt  to  spoil  either  with  cold  or  heat. 


515.  To  promote  the  Growth  of  Hair. — Mix  equal  parts  of 
olive  oil  and  spirits  of  rosemary,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  oil  of 
nutmeg.  If  the  hair  be  rubbed  every  night  with  a  little  of  this 
liniment,  and  the  proportion  be  very  gradually  augmented,  it 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  129 

will  answer  every  purpose  of  increasing  the  growth  of  hair, 
much  more  effectually  than  can  be  attained  by  any  of  the  boast- 
ing empirical  preparations  which  are  imposed  on  the  credulous 
purchaser. 

516.  Curling  Liquid  for  the  Hair. — When  the  hair  will  not 
curl  naturally,  the  curling  irons  should  not  be  used ;  they  only 
extract  the  moisture,  and  render  the  hair  crisp  and  harsh.  An 
excellent  curling  liquid  is  the  following : — Put  two  pounds  of 
common  soap,  cut  small,  into  three  pints  of  spirits  of  wine, 
with  eight  ounces  of  potash,  and  melt  the  whole,  stirring  it  with 
a  clean  piece  of  wood.  Add  some  essence  of  amber,  vanilla, 
and  nevoli,  about  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each,  to  render  the 
fluid  agreeable.  The  liquids  which  are  sold  for  the  professed 
purpose  of  assisting  in  curling  the  hair,  are  chiefly  composed 
of  either  oily  or  extractive  substances. 


517.  To  prevent   Hair  from  falling   out, — Make   a   strong 
decoction  of  white-oak  bark  in  water,  and  use  it  freely.     It  is 
best  to  make  but  little  at  a  time,  and  have  it  fresh  at  least  , 
once  a  fortnight. 

518.  To  avoid  Grey  Hairs, — Those  who  would  avoid  that 
prominent  mark  of  approaching  old  age,  called  grey  hair, 
must  be  careful  in  the  treatment  of  the  hair  in  their  youth. 
They  must  avoid  constricting  the  skin,  and  strangling  the  hair 
at  its  roots,  and  everything  that  may  throw  into  the  blood  an 
undue  portion  of  lime.  We  say  an  undue  portion,  because  a 
certain  quantity  of  lime  is  indispensable  in  our  system  for  re- 
pairing the  wear  and  tear  of  the  bones,  teeth,  &c.  The  lime 
necessary  for  the  repair  of  bone  is  manufactured  by  the  sto- 
mach and  liver,  along  with  the  blood,  from  .various  articles  of 
our  diet  which  contain  it.  The  greatest  supply  is  usually  from 
the  water  which  we  drink,  or  which  is  employed  in  the  various 
processes  of  cooking  and  preparing  liquors.  All  animal  food 
also  contains  some  portion  of  lime,  as  well  as  some  of  the  sorts 
of  vegetable  food.  Ascertain,  then,  by  chemical  trial,  whether 
the  water  used  for  your  tea,  cofl'ee,  soups,  &c.,  contains  a  large 
proportion  of  lime;  and,  if  it  do,  you  must  either  have  it  chem- 
ically purified,  or  remove  to  some  other  place  where  the  watei 
is  more  free  from  lime.  U  water  be  hard,  you  may  be  certain 
that  it  contains  too  much  lime  to  be  safely  used.     Rain-water 

9 


130  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  tue  miltjox. 

is  the  safest  for  tea  and  other  liquids.  Bread  will  always  con- 
tain a  portion  of  lime ;  you  must,  therefore,  be  careful  in  deal- 
ing with  respectable  bakers,  who  will  not  increase  that  una- 
voidable quantity  by  means  of  adulterating  matter  (such  as 
whiting)  which  contains  lime. 

519.  To  soften  and  cleanse  the  Hair, — Beat  up  an  e^^g^  rub  ifc 
well  into  the  hair,  and  then  wash  the  head  well.  If  the  hair  is 
very  oily,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  This  receipt  also  an- 
swers much  better  for  washing  pet  dogs  than  soap. 

520.  To  make  a  Curling  Fluid  for  the  Hair, — Melt  a  piece 
of  white  bees'- wax,  about  the  size  of  a  filbert  kernel  or  large 
pea,  in  one  ounce  of  olive  oil ;  to  this  add  one  or  two  drops  of 
ottar  of  roses  or  any  other  perfume. 


521.  Gen,  Twiggs'^  Hair  Dye, — Dissolve  in  a  pint  of  rose- 
water,  one  ounce  of  lac  sulphur,  and  half  an  ounce  of  sugar  of 
lead.  Wet  the  hair  with  this  mixture  thoroughly  every  night, 
shaking  the  bottle  occasionally.  Some  persons  prefer  whisky 
to  rose-water,  in  mixing  the  articles. 


522.  To  change  Hair  to  a  deej^  Brown. — A  solution  of  silver 
caustic  in  water  is  the  foundation  of  all  the  nostrums  for  this 
purpose.     It  must  be  well  diluted  before  used. 


^23.  To  dye  the  Hair  Black, — Procure  from  the  dyer's  a 
quantity  of  walnut-water ;  and  with  this  wash  the  hair,  as  the 
first  part  of  the  process.  Then  make  an  aromatic  tincture  of 
galls,  by  scenting  the  common  tincture  with  any  agreeable  per- 
fume; and  with  this  wet  the  hair,  which  must  next  be  moistened 
with  a  strong  solution  of  sulphate  of  iron. 

524.  A  simple  Hair-dye, — Boil  in  a  pint  of  water  a  handful  of 
rosemary ;  when  cold,  strain  and  bottle,  but  do  not  cork  it. 
Renew  it  every  few  weeks.     Wet  the  hair  with  it  every  night. 

525.  To  darken  theEye-hrows. — Take  an  ounce  of  walnuts,  an 
ounce  of  frankincense,  an  ounce  of  resin,  and  an  ounce  of  mas- 
tick.  Burn  them  all  on  clear,  red-hot  charcoal,  and  receive  the 
fumes  into  a  funnel,  in  which  a  yqyj  fine  black  powder,  slightly 
perfumed  and  unctuous,  will  adhere.     Mix  this  with  a  little  oii 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  Ji31 

of  myrtle,  in  a  leaden  mortar,  and  apply  it  to  the  eye-brows. 
This  paste  has  the  property  of  resisting  both  heat  and  perspira- 
tion; but  it  must  be  occasionally  renewed.  The  following 
method  may  also  be  used  :  Burn  a  clove  in  the  flame  of  a  wax- 
candle,  dip  it  into  the  juice  of  elder-berries,  and  apply  it  to  the 
eye-brows.  The  powder,  also,  which  is  used  in  the  East  for 
painting  the  eye-lashes,  and  which  is  composed  of  antimony  and 
bismuth,  may  be  safely  and  advantageously  used.  Or,  a  paste 
prepared  from  powdered  black  lead,  with  eau  de  Cologne,  or 
oil  of  myrtle,  or  essence  of  bergamot,  will  suffice  for  the  pur- 
pose. When  the  eye-brows  become  long  and  shaggy,  they  give 
a  ferocious  and  repulsive  expression  to  the  countenance.  The 
scissors  should  in  that  case  be  often  used.  Some  of  the  longest 
hairs  might  also  be  removed  with  the  tweezers. 


626.  To  know  whether  Hair  Powder  is  adulterated  with  Lime. 
— Put  a  little  crude  sal-ammoniac,  in  powder,  to  the  suspected 
hair  powder,  and  add  a  little  warm  water  to  the  mixture,  and 
stir  it  about ;  if  the  powder  has  been  adulterated  with  lime,  a 
strong  smell  of  volatile  alkali  will  arise  from  this  mixture. 

527.  To  'perfume  Hair  Powder, — Take  one  drachm  of  musk, 
four  ounces  of  lavender  blossoms,  one  and  a  half  drachm  of 
civet,  and  half  a  drachm  of  ambergris  ;  pound  the  whole  toge- 
ther, and  pass  it  through  a  sieve.  Preserve  this  mixture  in 
well-stopped  bottles,  and  add  more  or  less  thereof,  as  agreeable, 
in  your  hair  powder. 

528.  To  improve  the  Hair, — Powdered  hartshorn,  mixed 
with  oil,  being  rubbed  upon  the  head  of  persons  who  have  lost 
their  hair,  will  cause  it  to  grow  again.  A  very  good  oil  for  the 
hair  is  made  by  mixing  one  part  of  the  liquid  hartshorn  with 
nine  parts  of  pure  castor-oil. 

529.  An  economical  Hair  Wash. — Dissolve  in  one  quart  of 
boiling  water  one  ounce  of  borax  and  half  an  ounce  of  camphor ; 
these  ingredients  fine.  When  cool,  the  solution  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Damp  the  hair  with  it  frequently.  This  w\ash  not 
only  cleanses  and  beautifies,  but  strengthens  the  hair,  preserves 
the  color,  and  prevents  baldness. 


132  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

*  530.  To  remove  Superfluous  Hair, — This  is  very  difficult,  for 
if  you  pull  the  hair  out  by  the  roots  from  those  places  which  it 
disfigures,  there  are  thousands  of  roots  ready  to  start  through 
the  skin  the  moment  you  make  room  for  them.  Old  authors 
recommend  depilatories  in  great  variety.  The  principal  of 
these  methods  consist  in  rubbing  upon  the  part  from  which  the 
hair  is  to  be  removed,  leaven,  parsley  water,  juice  of  acacia,  the 
gum  of  ivy  or  of  the  cherry-tree,  dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine, 
&;c.  Madame  Elisi  Voiart,  in  her  "  Encyclopedic  des  Dames," 
recommends  a  few  drops  of  dulcified  spirit  of  salt,  (that  is,  mu- 
riatic acid  distilled  with  rectified  spirits  of  wine,)  to  be  applied 
with  a  camel  hair  pencil. 


OF  THE  COMPLEXION. 

531.  Never  Paint — The  use  of  white  paint  as  a  cosmetic  affects 
the  eyes,  which  it  renders  painful  and  watery.  It  changes  the 
texture  of  the  skin,  on  which  it  produces  pimples;  attacks  the 
teeth,  destroys  the  enamel,  and  loosens  them.  It  heats  the 
mouth  and  throat,  infecting  and  corrupting  the  saliva.  Lastly, 
it  penetrates  the  pores  of  the  skin,  acting  by  degrees  on  the 
spongy  substance  of  the  lungs,  and  inducing  disease.  Powdered 
magnesia,  or  violet  powder,  is  no  further  injurious  than  by 
stopping  the  pores  of  the  skin  ;  but  this  is  quite  injury  enough 
to  preclude  its  use.  The  best  cosmetics  are  early  hours,  exer- 
cise, and  temperance. 


"532.  To  soften  the  Skin  and  improve  the  Complexion, — Mix 
in  a  cup  of  milk  a  little  flowers  of  sulphur ;  let  it  stand  for  an 
hour  or  two;  then,  without  disturbing  the  sulphur,  rub  the  milk 
into  the  skin.  It  will  keep  it  soft  and  clear.  It  should  be  used 
before  washing. 


533.  How  to  treat  Freckles, — Most  of  us  have  observed  the 
effect  produced  on  white  paper  by  holding  it  closely  to  the  fire: 
it  changes  rapidly  from  white  to  brown,  and  becomes  scorched. 
Chemists  tell  us  that  most  combustible  things,  both  in  the  ani- 
mal and  vegetable  world,  have  carbon  for  their  basis — so  has 
the  skin ;  and,  if  it  be  exposed  to  the  heat,  it  becomes,  like 
them,  spotted  or  charred.  The  iron  and  oxygen  in  the  blood 
also  assist  to  produce  this  efiect.  Thus  w^e  have  the  cause  of 
freckles.     Those  who,  like  Kichard  Coeur  de  Lion,  and  Mary 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  133 

Queen  of  Scots,  have  red  hair  (which  is  caused  by  a  red-colored 
oil,  more  strongly  impregnated  with  iron  than  others),  are  most 
liable  to  freckles. 

The  most  effectual  means  of  removing  freckles,  is  the  use  of 
those  chemicals  which  will  dissolve  the  existing  combination. 
The  freckles  are  situated  in  the  second  or  middle  membrane  of 
the  skin ;  and,  before  any  other  application,  it  will  be  ad- 
visable to  soften  the  surface  by  the  use  of  some  mild  balsam 
or  paste. 


534.  For  FrecTcles, — One  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  one  ditto 
of  barley  flour,  mix  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  honey  to  make 
the  whole  into  a  smooth  paste;  with  which  the  face,  more  par- 
ticularly where  the  freckles  are  visible,  is  to  be  anointed  at 
night,  and  the  paste  washed  off  in  the  morning.  After  a  few 
days  the  skin  will  be  prepared  for  a  chemical  remedy. 


535.  Another, — To  decompose  the  freckles,  by  laying  hold 
of  the  iron,  the  following  mixture  may  be  applied  :  Take  one 
drachm  of  muriatic  acid,  half  a  pint  of  rain-water,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  spirit  of  lavender ;  mix  well  together,  and  apply 
two  or  three  times  a  day  to  the  freckles,  with  a  camel's  hair 
brush.  The  acid  seizes  upon  the  iron,  and  the  oxygen  is  disen- 
gaged. 


536.  Purifying  water  for  Freckled  Skin, — Take  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  liquor  of  potassa,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  pure 
water,  and  ten  drops  of  eau  de  Cologne.  Mix,  and  apply  three 
times  a  day  with  a  camel's  hair  brush, 

537.  Cosmetic  Lotion  for  Freckles, — Take  a  tea-cupful  of  cold 
sour  milk,  scrape  into  it  a  quantity  of  horse-radish.  Let  this 
stand  from  six  to  twelve  hours ;  and  then,  being  well  strained, 
let  it  be  applied,  as  before  directed,  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

538.  Preventive  Wash  for  Sunburn, — Take  two  drachms  of 
borax,  one  drachm  of  Roman  alum,  one  drachm  of  camphor, 
half  an  ounce  of  sugar-candy,  and  one  pound  of  ox-gall ;  mix 
and  stir  well  together,  and  repeat  the  stirring  three  or  four 
times  a  day,  until  the  mixture  becomes  transparent  \  then  straia 
it  through  filtering  paper,  and  it  is  fit  for  use. 


134  MRS.   H alb's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLION. 


539.  Grajpe  Lotion  for  Sunburn. — Dip°  a  bunch  of  green 
grapes  in  a  basin  of  water ;  sprinkle  it  with  powdered  alum 
and  salt,  mixed  together ;  wrap  it  in  paper,  and  bake  it 
under  hot  ashes  ;  then  express  the  remaining  juice,  and  wash 
the  face  with  the  liquid. 

540.  Lemon  Cream  for  Sunburn  and  Freckles, — Put  two 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  cream  into  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  ;  squeeze 
into  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  little 
alum,  and  loaf  sugar ;  boil  the  whole,  skim  it  well,  and,  when 
cool,  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

541.  A  French  Receipt — Take  equal  parts  of  the  seeds  of 
the  melon,  pompion,  gourd,  and  cucumber,  pounded  and  re- 
duced to  powder  or  meal ;  add  to  it  fresh  cream  sufficient  to 
dilute  the  flour ;  beat  all  up  together,  adding  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  milk,  as  it  may  be  required,  to  make  an  ointment,  and 
then  apply  it  to  the  face.  Leave  it  there  for  half  an  hour,  and 
then  wash  it  off  with  warm  soft  water.  Pimpernel  water  is 
often  used  on  the  continent  for  the  purpose  of  whitening  the 
complexion.  It  is  there  in  so  high  reputation,  that  it  is  said 
generally  that  it  ought  to  be  continually  on  the  toilet  of  every 
lady  who  cares  for  the  brightness  of  her  skin. 

542.  ilfo/e5.— The  author  of  ''The  Art  of  Beauty,"  whose 
WQrk  appeared  in  1824,  has  very  judiciously  observed :  "  The 
common  brown  mole  appears  to  be  much  of  the  same  nature  as 
freckles,  and  to  be  situated  in  the  middle  layer  of  the  skin,  or 
membrane  of  color.  Moles  are  sometimes  so  placed  as  to  im- 
prove rather  than  injure  a  fine  face.  They  contrast  with  the 
delicacy  of  a  fair  skin,  and  give  a  pleasing  archness  of  expres- 
sion to  the  countenance.  They  are,  however,  most  frequently 
found  on  women  of  a  dark  complexion.  The  coloring  matter, 
as  in  the  case  of  freckles  and  sunburn,  is  probably  some  chemi- 
cal combination  of  iron.  Moles  have  evidently  a  supera- 
bundant vitality,  and  a  tendency  to  increased  action,  in  conse- 
quence, perhaps,  of  the  stimulus  of  the  iron ;  and  hence  they 
are  often  slightly  elevated  above  the  surface,  and  the  natural 
down  of  the  skin  is  changed  into  a  tuft  of  hair.  The  same  cos- 
metic applications  may  be  tried  as  for  freckles,  with  gentle  fric- 
tioikj  but  they  are  seldom  successful.    But  it  will  be  found  very 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  135 

dangerous  to  apply  depilatories  to  eradicate  the  tufts  of  hair  on 
moles,  as  cancer  in  the  face  is  not  unfrequently  the  consequence 
of  such  applications." 

543.  Birth  Marks. — Let  them  alone,  or  apply  to  some  emi 
nent  surgeon  to  attempt  their  removal. 

544.  Worm  Pimple,  with  black  points. — They  are  very  com- 
mon, and  very  unsightly,  giving  the  skin  an  oily,  greasy,  and 
dirty  appearance.  Their  origin  is  to  be  traced  to  the  obstruc- 
tion of  the  fountains  or  glands  placed  immediately  under  the 
skin,  from  which  a  minute  pipe  carries  off  the  perspiration. 
This  moisture,  not  getting  free  egress,  thickens  and  closes  the 
pores  :  it  then  catches  the  dust  and  other  impurities,  floating 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  soon  becomes  black.  If  squeezed  vio- 
lently between  the  nails,  this  thickened  matter  will  be  driven 
out,  in  the  form  of  a  yellowish  white  worm,  with  a  black  head, 
which  is  nothing  more  than  the  extraneous  matter  just  men- 
tioned. That  there  is  any  vitality  in  it,  is  an  absurd,  but  popu- 
lar and  prevalent  error.  These  pimples  generally  cluster  on 
the  sides  of  the  nose  and  on  the  forehead,  whilst  the  skin  around 
them  is  greasy.  They  should  be  thoroughly  pressed  out  of 
every  pore,  or  there  they  will  remain,  and  no  cosmetic  will  dis- 
lodge them.  When  this  is  effectually  done,  the  following  safe 
and  simple  application  may  be  tried  :  take  one  ounce  of  bitter 
almonds  and  one  ounce  of  barley -flour ;  mix  them  with  honey, 
until  they  form  a  smooth  paste,  and  anoint  the  skin  at  night. 
Gentle  friction,  either  with  the  hand  or  with  a  soft  glove,  is  also 
good.  When  this  state  of  the  skin  is  induced  by  bilious  disor- 
ders, indigestion,  &;c.,  sulphur,  purgatives,  and  other  remedies 
must  be  taken  to  remove  it ;  but  not  without  medical  advice, 
as  they  often  are  the  reverse  of  efiectual. 

545.  Another  simple  Bemedy, — Bathe  the  pimples  several 
times  a  day  with  lukewarm  water  and  a  sponge,  rubbing  the 
sponge  over  a  piece  of  yellow  suap.  There  is  a  truly  healing 
power  in  soap,  which  is  surprising  when  we  learn  to  appreciate 
it,  and  which  is  quite  distinct  from  mere  cleanliness. 

546.  Wash  for  Pim;ples. — Dissolve  half  a  drachm  of  salt  of 
tartar  in  three  ounces  of  spirit  of  wine ;  apply  with  linen  or  a 
oamel-haii'  Dencil. 


136  ME3.    HALE'S    EECEIPTS    FOR    THIT  MILLION 

547.  A  Paste  for  the  Skin. — Boil  the  whites  of  four  eggs  in 
rose-water ;  add  to  it  a  small  quantity  of  alum  ;  beat  the  whole 
to  the  consistence  of  a  paste.  This  will  give  great  firmness  to 
the  skin. 


548.  Cold  Cream. — Take  two  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds, 
and  one  drachm  each  of  white  wax  and  spermaceti,  or  half  an 
ounce  of  white  wax  alone,  which  scrape  very  fine,  and  put  thera 
with  the  oil  into  an  earthen  dish,  to  melt  slowly  on  the  embers, 
and  stir  it  till  it  becomes  quite  smooth.  When  it  is  cooling, 
add  one  ounce  of  rose-water,  and  put  it  into  a  gallipot,  closely 
covered.     It  should  be  a  verv  thick  cream.    - 


549.  Fard. — This  paste  is  useful  in  removing  sun-burnings, 
effects  of  wind  on  the  face,  and  accidental  cutaneous  eruptions. 
It  must  be  applied  on  going  to  bed.  First,  wash  the  face, 
and,  when  dry,  rub  the  fard  over  it,  and  let  it  remain  all  night. 
Take  two  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  spermaceti;  melt  them  over  a  slow  fire.  When  they  are 
dissolved  and  mixed,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  stir  into  it  one 
table-spoonful  of  fine  honey.  Continue  stirring  it  till  it  is  cold, 
and  it  is  then  fit  for  use. 


550.  Cou7't-plaster,  or  black  Sticking-plaster, — Take  half  an 
ounce  of  benzoin,  and  six  ounces  of  rectified  spirit ;  dissolve 
and  strain ;  then  take  one  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  half  a  pint  of 
hot  water ;  dissolve  and  strain  separately  from  the  former. 
Mix  the  two,  and  set  thera  aside  to  cool,  when  a  jelly  will  be 
formed;  and  this  is  warmed  and  brushed  ten  or  twelve  times 
over  a  piece  of  black  silk,  stretched  smooth.  When  this  is 
done  enough,  and  dry,  finish  it  with  a  solution  of  four  ounces 
of  chian  turpentine  in  six  ounces  of  tincture  of  benzoin. 


551.  An  excellent  Tooth-powder. — One  of  the  best  tooth-pow- 
ders is  made  by  mixing  together  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  pre- 
pared chalk,  half  an  ounce  of  powder  of  bark,  and  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  camphor. 


552.  Charcoal  Tooth-powder. — Pound  charcoal  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible, in  a  mortar,  or  grind  it  in  a  mill ;  then  well  sift  it,  and 
apply  a  little  of  it  to  the  teeth  about  twice  a  week,  and  it  will 
not  only  render  them  beautifully  white,  but  will  also  make  the 
breath  sweet,  and  the  gums  firm  and  comfortable. 


HEALTH    A>'D    BEAUTY.  137 

If  the  charcoal  is  ground  in  a  mortar,  it  is  convenient  to  grind 
it  in  water,  to  prevent  the  dust  from  flying  about.  Indeed,  the 
powder  is  more  convenient  for  use,  when  kept  in  water. 

553.  A  safe  Tooth-powder, — Cut  a  slice  of  thick  bread  intc 
squares,  and  bum  it  till  it  becomes  charcoal.  Pound  it^  and 
sift  it  through  a  Jin£  muslin.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

554.  Another  Tooth-powder. — Mix  hartshorn  shavings,  cal- 
cined and  pulverized,  three-fifths ;  myrrh,  pulverized,  two-fifths. 


555.  A  good  Dentifrice, — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  borax  in 
three  pints  of  boiling  water;  before  it  is  quite  cold,  add  one 
tea-spoonful  of  tincture  of  myrrh,  and  one  table-spoonful  of 
spirits  of  camphor.  Bottle  the  mixture  for  use.  Add  one 
wine-glassful  of  the  solution  to  half  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  and 
use  it  daily.  It  preserves  and  beautifies  the  teeth,  arrests  de- 
cay, and  induces  a-healthy  action  in  the  gums. 

556.  Camphor  Tooth-powder, — This  excellent  dentifrice  is 
made  by  mixing  preparecf  chalk,  finely  pulverized,  and  sifted 
through  a  fine  muslin,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  pulverized 
camphor,  prepared  in  the  same  way.  It  is  a  good  preservative 
of  the  teeth. 


557.  Orris-root  Tooth-powder. — Mix  equal  quantities  of  finely 
pulverized  and  sifted  orris-root  and  prepared  chalk.  Charcoal 
may  be  used  instead  of  chalk,  in  both  these  receipts,  but  it 
must  be  prepared  with  great  care,  else  its  grittiness  will  injure 
the  enamel  of  the  teeth. 


558.  To  whiten  the  Teeth, — Mix  honey  with  finely  powdered 
charcoal,  and  use  the  paste  as  a  dentifrice. 


559.  Wash  for  the  Teeth, — One  ounce  of  myrrh,  powdered, 
and  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  spirits  of  wine.  A  little  of  this 
dropped  on  the  tooth-brush,  is  excellent  for  the  teeth  and  gums. 

560.  To  remove  Tartar  from  the  Teeth. — 1st.  Ihe  use  of  the 
tooth-brush  night  and  morning,  and  at  least  rinsing  the  mouth 
after  every  meal  at  which  animal  food  is  taken.  2d.  Once 
daily  run  the  brush  lightly  two  or  three  times  over  soap,  then 


138  MRS.  halb's  receipts  for  the  million. 

dip  it  in  salt,  and  with  it  clean  the  teeth,  working  the  brush  up 
and  down  rather  than — or  as?  w^ell  as — backw^ards  and  forwards. 
Tnis  is  a  ch^p,  safe,  and  effectual  dentifrice.  8d.  Eat  freely 
of  common  cress — the  sort  used  with  mustard,  under  the  name 
of  small  salad  ;  it  must  be  eaten  with  salt  only.  If  thus  used 
two  or  three  days  in  succession,  it  will  effectually  loosen  tartar, 
even  of  long  standing.  The  same  effect  is  produced,  though 
perhaps  not  in  an  equal  degree,  by  eating  strawberries  and 
raspberries,  especially  the  former.  A  leaf  of  common  green 
sage  rubbed  on  the  teeth,  is  useful  both  in  cleansing  and  polish- 
ing, and  probably  many  other  common  vegetable  productions 
also. 


561.  Ohs,  Soap  is  not  at  all  a  desirable  medium  for  cleaning 
the  teeth,  as,  though  it  may  whiten  for  the  time,  the  alkaline 
process  destroys  the  enamel. 


562.  To  fill  a  decayed  Tooth, — When  a  tooth  is  too  much 
.  decayed  to  be  filled  by  a  debtist,  or  the  person  is  at  a  distance 
from  one,  gutta  percha  will  be  found  an  useful  expedient. 
Drop  a  small  piece  of  this  substance  in  boiling  water,  then 
taking  off  as  much  as  will  probably  fill  the  tooth  nearly  level, 
press  it,  while  soft,  into  the  cavity.  Then  hold  cold  water  in 
the  mouth  on  that  side,  to  harden  it.  It  has  been  know^n  to 
preserve  a  tooth  two  years  at  least,  and  keeps  it  free  from  cold. 


FOR  THE  DRESSING-TABLE. 

563.  Tb  make  soft  Pomatum. — Beat  half  a  pound  of  unsalted 
fresh  lard  in  common  water ;  then  soak  and  beat  it  in  two  rose- 
waters ;  drain  it,  and  beat  it  with  two  spoonfuls  of  brandy; 
let  it  drain  from  this ;  add  to  it  some  essence  of  lemon,  and 
keep  it  in  small  pots. 


564.  Or :  Soak  half  a  pound  of  clear  beef  marrow,  and  one 
pound  of  unsalted  fresh  lard,  in  water,  tW'O  or  three  days, 
changing  and  beating  it  every  day.  Put  it  into  a  sieve,  and, 
when  dry,  into  a  jar,  and  the  jar  into  a  saucepan  of  water. 
When  melted,  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  beat  it  with  two  spoon 
fuls  of  brandy;  drain  off  the  brandy,  and  then  add  essence  of 
lemon,  bergamot,  or  any  other  scent  that  is  liked. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  139 

565.  Hard  Pomatum, — Prepare  equal  quantities  of  beef 
marrow  and  mutton  suet,  as  before,  using  the  brandy  to  pre- 
serve it,  and  adding  the  scent ;  then  pour  it  into  moulds,  or,  if 
you  have  none,  into  phials  of  the  size  you  choose  the  rolls  to 
be.  When  cold,  break  the  bottles,  clear  away  the  glass  care- 
fully, and  put  paper  round  the  rolls. 

566.  Or:  Take  equal  quantities  of  marrow,  melted  and 
strained,  lard,  and  castor  oil ;  warm  all  together;  add  any  scent 
you  please;  stir  until  cold,  and  put  into  pots. 

567.  Pomade  Divine, — Clear  one  and  a  half  pound  of  beef 
marrow  from  the  strings  and  bone ;  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan 
or  vessel  of  water  fresh  from  the  spring,  and  change  the  water 
night  and  morning  for  ten  days ;  then  steep  it  in  rose-water 
twenty-four  hours,  and  drain  it  in  a  cloth  till  quite  dry.  Take 
one  ounce  of  each  of  the  following  articles,  namely  :  storax, 
gum-benjamin,  and  odoriferous  cypress  powder ;  half  an  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  two  drachms  of  cloves,  and  two  drachms  of  nut- 
meg, all  finely  powdered :  mix  them  with  the  marrow  above 
prepared ;  then  put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  pewter  pot  that 
holds  three  pints ;  make  a  paste  of  white  of  egg  and  flour,  and 
lay  it  upon  a  piece  of  rag.  Over  that  must  be  another  piece 
of  linen,  to  cover  the  top  of  the  pot  very  close,  that  none  of  the 
steam  may  evaporate.  Put  the  pot  into  a  large  copper  pot 
with  water,  observing  to  keep  it  steady,  that  it  may  not  reach 
to  the  covering  of  the  pot  that  holds  the  marrow.  As  the  water 
shrinks,  add  more,  boiling  hot — for  it  must  boil  four  hours 
without  ceasing  a  moment.  Strain  the  ointment  through  a 
linen  cloth  into  small  pots,  and,  when  cold,  cover  them.  Do 
not  touch  it  with  anything  but  silver.     It  will  keep  many  years, 

568.  To  make  Jessamine  Butter. — Hog's  la.rd  melted,  and 
well  washed  in  fair  water,  laid  an  inch  thick  in  a  dish,  and 

.strewed  over  with  jessamine  flowers,  will  imbibe  the  scent,  and 
make  a  very  fragrant  pomatum. 


569.  Rowland^s  Macassar  Oil, — This  is  made  by  boiling  cas- 
tor oil,  scenting  it  with  oil  of  roses,  and  coloring  it,  while  warm, 
with  alkanet  root. 


570.   Macassar  Oil, — Common  oil,  three  quarts;   spirits  of 
wine,  half  a  pint;  cinnamon  powder,  three  ounces;  bcrgamot, 


140  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the»million 

two  ounces :  heat  them  together  in  a  large  pipkin,  then  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  and  add  four  small  pieces  of  alkanet  root,  keep- 
ing it  closely  covered  for  several  hours.  Let  it  then  be  filtered 
through  a  funnel  lined  with  filtering  paper. 


571.  Wash  for  the  Skin, — Four  ounces  of  potash,  four  ounces 
of  rose-water,  two  ounces  of  pure  brandy,  and  two  ounces  of 
lemon-juice ;  put  all  these  into  two  quarts  of  water,  and  when 
you  wash,  put  a  table-spoonful  or  two  of  the  mixture  into  the 
basin  of  water  you  intend  washing  in. 


572.    To  make  Milk  of  Roses. — To  one  pint  of  rose-water,  add 
one  ounce  of  oil  of  almonds  and  ten  drops  of  the  oil  of  tartar. 
N.  B. — Let  the  oil  of  tartar  be  poured  in  last. 


573.  Almond  Paste. — Blanch  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds,  and  beat  them  to 
powder  in  a  mortar  with  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  3  then  beat 
them  into  a  paste  with  orange-flower  water. 

574.  Almond  Powder. — Blanch  six  pounds  of  bitter  almonds, 
dry  and  beat  them,  and  press  from  them  one  pint  of  oil ;  then 
beat  them  in  an  iron  mortar,  and  pass  the  powder  through  a 
sieve.  Keep  it  from  air  and  moisture  in  a  glass  jar.  Used 
instead  of  soap  for  washing  the  hands,  it  imparts  a  singular  deli- 
cacy to  their  appearance. 

^  , 

575.  Violet  Poivder. — This  preparation  is  universally  applied 
for  drying  the  skin  after  washing,  especially  at  the  joints,  which, 
if  left  even'  dam.p,  produces  chaps  and  chafing,  often  followed, 
if  neglected,  by  inflammation.  .  Violet  powder  is  best  prepared 
by  mixing  three  parts  of  the  best  wheat  starch  with  one  of 
finely-ground  orris-root ;  the  latter  adds  to  the  drying  power 
of  the  starch,  and  imparts,  at  the  same  time,  an  agreeable  odor 
like  that  of  violet — hence  the  name  of  the  mixture.  It  is  also 
prepared  by  perfuming  starch  with  essential  oils,  without  the  ' 
addition  of  orris-root :  but,  though  the  scent  of  thQ  powder  is 
stronger,  and  to  some  more  tempting  to  use,  it  is  far  less  bene- 
ficial in  its  application.  The  scent,  acting  as  a  stimulant  to 
the  skin,  increases  rather  than  abates  any  tendency  to  redness. 
Unperfumed  powder  is,  therefore,  the  best  to  use,,  dusted  over 
the  part  with  a  little  brush  made  of  swan's-down,  called  b  palK 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  141 

576.  Another  Powder  for  Chaps,  dc. — Take  dry  hemlock 
bark,  powder  it,  by  rubbing  on  a  fine  grater ;  then  sift  this 
powder  through  gauze  or  muslin,  and  sprinkle  it  lightly  on  the 
part  chapped.     It  is  a  safe  and  certain  curative. 


577.  Pearl  White, — Bismuth  dissolved  in  aqua-fortis,  is  pearl 
white.  This,  though  at  first  it  whitens,  afterwards  blackens 
the  skin,  as  all  preparations  from  lead  do ;  and  therfore  none 
of  them  are  safely  to  be  used. — Dr,  Moyes^  Lectures. 


578.  Pot-pourri, — Put  into  a  large  china  jar  the  following 
ingredients  in  layers,  with  bay-salt  strewed  between  the  layers  : 
two  pecks  of  damask  roses,  part  in  buds  and  part  blown ;  vio- 
lets, orange-flowers,  and  jessamine,  a  handful  of  each ;  orris- 
root  sliced,  benjamin  and  storax,  two  ounces  of  each ;  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  musk ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  angelica  root, 
sliced  ;  a  quart  of  the  red  parts  of  clove-gillyflowers  ;  two 
handfuls  of  lavender  flowers;  half  a  handful  of  rosemary  flow- 
ers; bay  and  laurel  leaves,  half  a  handful  of  each  ;  three  Se- 
ville oranges,  stuck  as  full  of  cloves  as  possible,  dried  in  a  cool 
oven,  and  pounded;  half  a  handful  of  knotted  marjoram;  and 
two  handfuls  of  balm  of  Gilead,  dried.  Cover  all  quite  close. 
When  the  pot  is  uncovered  the  perfume  is  very  fine. 


579.  A  quicker  sort  of  sweet  Pot-pourri, — Take  three  handfuls 
of  orange-flowers,  three  of  clove-gillyflowers,  three  of  damask- 
roses,  one  of  knotted  marjoram,  one  of  lemon-thyme,  six  bay- 
leaves,  a  handful  of  rosemary,  one  of  myrtle,  half  of  mint,  one 
of  lavender,  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves.  Chop  all,  and  put  them  in  layers,  with  pounded  bay- 
salt  between,  up  to  the  tip  of  the  jar. 

If  all  the  ingredients  cannot  be  obtained  at  once,  put  them  in 
as  you  get  them ;  always  throwing  in  salt  with  every  new 
article. 


580.  Hungary  Water. — Mix  one  quart  of  spirits  of  wine; 
half  a  pint  of  water;  and  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  oil  of 
rosemary. 


581.  Lavender  Water. — Mix  in  a  quart  bottle  three  drachms 
of  oil  of  lavender;  one  pint  rectified  spirit  of  wine  ;  shake  them 


142  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

well  together,  and  add  an  ounce  of  orange-flower  water,  ac 
ounce  of  rose-water,  four  ounces  of  distilled  water,  and,  if  you 
like,  two  or  three  drachms  of  essence  of  musk. 


582.  Rose-water. — When  the  roses  are  in  full  bloom  pick  the 

eaves  carefully  off,  and  to  every  quart  of  water  put  a  peck  of 

them ;  put  them  in  a  cold  still  over  a  slow   fire,  and  distil 

gradually;  then  bottle  the  water;  let  it  stand  in  the  bottle 

three  days,  and  then  cork  it  close. 


583.  Another, — Take  two  pounds  of  rose  leaves,  place  them 
on  a  napkin  tied  round  the  edges  of  a  basin  filled  with  hot 
water,  and  put  a  dish  of  cold  water  upon  the  leaves ;  keep  the 
bottom  water  hot,  and  change  the  water  at  top  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  grow  warm.  By  this  kind  of  distillation  you  will 
extract  a  great  quantity  of  the  essential  oil  of  the  roses  by  a 
process  which  cannot  be  expensive,  and  will  prove  very  bene- 
ficial. 


584.  Tincture  of  Roses. — Put  into  a  bottle  the  petals  of  the 
common  rose,  and  pour  upon  them  spirits  of  wine ;  cork  the 
bottle,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  months.  It  will  then 
yield  a  perfume  little  inferior  to  otto  of  roses.  Common  vine- 
gar is  much  improved  by  a  very  small  quantity  of  this  mixture 
being  added  to  it. 


585.  Honey  Water. — One  ounce  of  essence  of  berganwt, 
three  drachms  of  English  oil' of  lavender,  half  a  drachm  of  oil 
of  cloves,  half  a  drachm  of  aroaiiatic  vinegar,  six  grains  of 
musk,  one  and  a  half  pint  of  spirits  of  wine.     Mix  and  distil. 


586.  Honey  Water. — Take  one  pint  of  spirit  as  above,  and 
three  drachms  of  essence  of  ambergris;  shake  them  well  daily. 


587.  Sweet-scented  Water. — Put  one  quart  of  rose-water,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  orange-water,  into  a  large  and  wide- 
mouthed,  glass :  strew  upon  it  two  handfuls  of  jessamine  flow 
ers ;  put  the  glass  in  the  halneum  marice^  or  on  a  slow  fire,  and 
when  it  is  distilled,  add  to  it  a  scruple  of  musk  and  the  same 
quantity  of  ambergris.. 

588.  A  very  fine  Scent. — Take  six  drachms  of  oil  of  lavender, 
three  of  the  essence  of  bergamot,  sixty  drops  of  ambergris,  and 


HEALTH  AND  BEAUTY.  14^ 

two  grains  of  musk.     Mix  these  into  a  pint  of  the  best  rectified 
spirits  of  wine. 


589.  To  whiten  the  Hands, — Take  a  wine-glassful  of  eau  do 
Cologne,  and  another  of  lemon-juice ;  then  scrape  two  cakes  of 
brown  Windsor  soap,  or  the  same  quantity  of  pure  white  soap, 
to  a  powder,  and  mix  well  in  a  mould.  When  hard,  it  will  be 
excellent  for  whitening  the  hands. 


590.  Camphor  Cerate  for  Chapped  Hands, — The  following 
receipt  was  given  to  the  contributor  by  a  maid  of  honor  to 
Queen  Victoria.  It  is  an  excellent  one.  Scrape  into  an  earthen 
vessel  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  spermaceti  and  half  an  ounce  of 
white  wax ;  add  six  drachms  of  pounded  camphor,  and  four 
table  spoonfuls  of  the  best  olive  oil.  Let  it  stand  near  the  fire 
till  it  dissolves,  stirring  it  well  when  liquid.  Before  the  hands 
are  washed,  rub  them  thoroughly  with  a  little  of  the  cerate, 
then  wash  them  as  usual.  Putting  the  cerate  on  before  retiring, 
answers  very  well.  This  quantity  costs  about  twenty-five 
cents,  and  will  last  three  winters.  The  vessel  it  is  kept  in 
should  be  covered,  to  prevent  evaporation. 

591.  Paste  for  Chapped  Hands. — Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  unsalted  lard,  which  has  been  washed  in  soft  water,  and  then 
in  rose-water,  with  the  yolks  of  two  new-laid  eggs,  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  honey.  Add  as  much  fine  oatmeal  or  almond-paste 
as  will  work  into  a  paste. 

Or  : — Blanch  one  pound  of  bitter  almonds,  and  pound  them 
smooth  in  a  marble  mortar;  add  half  an  ounce  of  camphor, 
one  ounce  of  honey,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  spermaceti,  pounded 
and  mixed  with  the  almonds,  till  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste. 
Put  it  into  jars,  and  tie  it  down  till  wanted. 

592.  To  prevent  inconvenience  from  Perspiration  of  the  Hands, 
—Ladies  who  work  lace  or  ern broidery  sometimes  suffer  incon- 
venience from  the  perspiration  on  their  hands ;  which  may  be 
remedied,  by  rubbing  the  hands  frequently  with  a  little  dry 
wheaten  bran. 


593.  Another. — Any  of  the  milder  kinds  of  soaps  will  be  found 
to  answer  the  purpose  of  keeping  the  hands  clean,  soft,  and  aa 
white  as  nature  will  permit. 


144  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

594.  For  i^reserving  the  Nails, — One  ounce  of  oil  of  bitter 
almonds  ;  one  drachm  of  oil  of  tartar  per  deliquium ;  one 
ounce  of  prepared  crabs'-eyes.  Mix  up  with  essence  of  lemon, 
to  scent  it. 

La  Forest  recommends  rubbing  the  nails  with  lemon  as  a 
deterojent. 


595.  To  whiten  the  Xails. — Mix  two  drachms  of  diluted  sul- 
phuric acid,  one  drachm  of  tincture  of  myrrh,  and  four  ounces 
of  spring-water.  Cleanse  the  nails  with  soap,  and  then  dip  the 
fincrers  in  the  mixture. 


59G.  To  re'/nove  Stains  from  the  Hands, — Dip  your  hands  in 
warm  water,  and  rub  on  the  stain  a  small  portion  of  oxalic  acid 
powder  and  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  together  in  equal  quantities. 
Keep  it  in  a  box.  When  the  stain  disappears,  wash  the  hands 
with  fine  soap  or  almond  cream.  A  box  of  this  stain  powder 
should  always  be  kept  on  hand. 

597.  To  rnalce  Wash-halls. — Shave  -thin  two  pounds  of  new 
white  soap  into  about  a  tea-cupful  of  rose-water,  then  pour  on 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will  soften  it.  Put  into  a  brass  pan 
a  pint  of  sweet  oil,  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  almonds,  half  a  pound 
of  spermaceti,  and  set  all  over  the  fire  till  dissolved  ;  then  add 
the  soap  and  half  an  ounce  of  camphor,  that  has  first  been 
reduced  to  powder  by  rubbing  it  in  a  mortar,  with  a  few  drops 
of  spirits  of  wine,  or  lavender-water,  or  any  other  scent.  Boil 
ten  minut.es,  then  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  quite 
thick  enough  to  roll  into  hard  balls,  which  must  then  be  done 
immediately.  If  essence  is  used,  stir  it  in  quickly  after  it  is 
taken  off  the  fire. 


598.  Essence  of  Soai^,  for  shaving  or  %cashing  hands, — Take 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  white  soap,  in  thin  slices,  and  add 
thereto  two  ounces  of  salt  of  tartar ;  mix  them  well  together, 
and  put  this  mixture  into  one  quart  of  spirits  of  wine,  in  a  bottle 
which  will  hold  double  the  quantity  of  the  ingredients :  tie  a 
bladder  over  the  mouth  of  the  bottle,  and  prick  a  pin  through 
the  bladder ;  set  it  to  digest  in  a  gentle  heat,  and  shake  the 
contents  from  time  to  time,  taking  care  to  take  out  the  pin  at 
such  times,  to  allow  passage  for  the  air  from  within.  When 
the  soap  is  dissolved,  filter  the  liquor  through  paper,  to  free  it 


HEALTH    AXD    BEAUTY.  145 

from  impurities ;  then  scent  it  with  a  little  be:  gamot  or  essence 
of  lemon.  It  will  have  the  appearance  of  fine  oil,  and  a  small 
quantity  will  lather  with  water  like  soap,  and  is  much  superior 
in  use  for  washinoj  or  shaving. 


599.  Nai^les  Soop, — Put  into  a  pipkin  or  saucepan  half  a 
pint  of  ley,  (strong  enough  to  bear  an  Qgg^)  with  two  ounces  of 
lamb  suet  and  one  ounce  of  olive  oil ;  simmer  them  over  a  fire 
until  they  be  thick,  when  pour  the  mixture  into  a  fiat  pan, 
cover  ifc  with  glass,  and  expose  it  to  the  heat  of  the  sun  for 
seven  weeks,  stirring  it  once  a  day  :  the  soap  will  then  be  made, 
and  may  be  perfumed  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  ambergris, 
which  should  be  well  mixed.  Put  the  soap  into  small  jars, 
and  it  will  be  improved  by  keeping. 


600.  Transparent  Soap, — Put  into  a  bottle  Windsor  soap,  in 
thin  shavings ;  half  fill  with  spirits  of  wine,  and  set  it  near  the 
fire  till  the  soap  be  dissolved,  when  pour  it  into  a  mould  to  cool. 


COL  Genuine  Windsor  Soap, — -To  make  this  fameus  soap 
for  washing  the  hands,  shaving,  dec,  nothing  more  is  necessary 
than  to  slice  the  best  white  soap  as  thin  as  possible,  melt  it- 
in  a  stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire,  scent  it  well  with  oil  of  caraway, 
and  then  pour  it  into  a  frame  or  mould  made  for  that  purpose, 
Or  a  small  drawer,  adapted  in  size  and  form  to  the  quantity. 
When  it  has  stood  three  or  four  days  in  a  dry  situation,  cut 
into  square  pieces,  and  it  is  ready  for  use."  By  this  simple 
mode,  substituting  any  more  favorite  scent  for  that  of  caraway, 
all  persons  may  suit  themselves  with  a  good  perfumed  soap, 
at  the  most  trifling  expense. 

602.  To  make  Lady  Derby  s  Soap. — Two  ounces  of  bitter 
almonds,  blanched,  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  tincture  of  ben- 
jamin, one  pound  of  good  plain  white  soap,  and  one  piece  of 
camphor  the  size  of  a  walnut.  The  almonds  and  camphor  are 
to  be  beaten  in  a  mortar  until  they  are  completely  mixed,  then 
work  up  with  them  the  tincture  of  benjamin.  The  mixture 
being  perfectly  made,  work  the  soap  into  it  in  the  same  man- 
ner. If  the  smell  is  too  powerful  of  the  camphor  and  tincture 
of  benjamin,  melt  the  soap  by  the  fire,  and  the  perfume  will 
go  off.  This  soap  has  been  tried  by  many  persons  of  distino- 
;ion,  is  excellent  in  its  qualities  for  cleansing  the  skin,  and  will 
10 


146  AiEb   bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

be  found  greatly  to  assist  the  complexion,  the  ingredients  being 
perfectly  safe. 


603.  To  make  superior  Honey  Soap, — Cut  into  thin  shavings 
two  pounds  of  common  yellow  or  white  soap ;  put  it  on  the 
fire  with  just  water  enough  to  keep  it  from  burning :  when  quite 
melted,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  honey,  stirring  it  till  it 
boils;  then  take  it  off,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  any  agreeable 
perfume  :  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish  to  cool,  and  then  cut  it  into 
squares.  It  improves  by  keeping.  It  will  soften  and  whiten 
the  skin. 


604.  Paste  for  Chapped  Lips, — Put  four  ounces  of  olive  oil 
into  a  bottle  with  one  ounce  of  alkanet  root ;  stop  it  up,  and 
set  it  for  some  days  in  the  sun,  shaking  it  often  until  it  becomes 
perfectly  bright ;  then  strain  the  oil  from  the  alkanet,  add  to  it 
one  ounce  of  white  wax,  and  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  clarified 
mutton  suet :  let  the  mixture  simmer  a  little  while  over  a  slow 
fire.  When  it  begins  to  cool,  mix  with  it  a  few  drops  of  any 
essential  oil. 


605.  Chapped  or  Sore  Lips — May  be  healed  by  the  frequent 
application  of  honey-water,  and  protecting  them  from  the  influ 
ence  of  cold  air. 


606.  Lip  Salve, — Melt  together  an  ounce  of  white  w^ax,  the 
same  of  beef  marrow,  and  three  ounces  of  white  pomatum,  with 
a  small  piece  of  alkanet  root,  tied  in  muslin ;  perfume,  when 
cool,  with  otto  of  rose  or  any  other  essence.  It  should  be 
strained  while  hot. 


607.  Bad  Breath  from  Onions, — A  few  leaves  of  parsley 
eaten  with  vinegar,  will  prevent  any  disagreeable  consequences 
from  eating  onions. 

608.  Wash  for  the  Mouth, — An  excellent  wash  for  the  mouth 
is  made  of  half  an  ounce  of  tincture  of  myrrh  and  two  ounces 
of  Peruvian  bark.  Keep  in  a  phial  for  use.  A  few  drops  in 
a  glass  of  water  are  sufiicient. 

609.  Eavb  de  Cologne. — Mix  essence  of  bergamot,  iemon, 
lavender,  and  orange-flower,  of  each  one  drachm ;  essei:K3e  of 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  147 

cinnamon,  half  a  drachm  ;  spirit  of  rosemary,  and  honey^water, 
each  two  ounces;  spirits  of  wine,  one  pint:  let  the  mixture 
stand  two  weeks,  then  put  it  in  a  glass  retort,  the  body  of  which 
immerse  in  boiling  water  contained  in  a  vessel  placed  over  a 
lamp,  while  the  beak  of  the  retort  is  introduced  into  a  large 
reservoir  (a  decanter,  for  example) :  keep  the  water  boiling, 
while  the  mixture  will  distil  into  the  receiver,  which  should 
be  covered  with  cold  wet  cloths.  In  this  manner  Cologne-water 
may  be  obtained  as  good  as  the  best  Farina,  at  one-fourth  the 
price.  A  coffee-lamp  or  nursery-furnace  will  best  answer  to 
boil  the  water. 

The  above  is  the  most  simple  method  of  distilling,  without 
the  regular  still. 


610.  To  make  Eau  de  Cologne, — Rectified  spirits  of  wine, 
four  pints;  oil  of  bergamot,  one  ounce;  oil  of  lemon,  half  an 
ounce ;  oil  of  rosemary,  half  a  drachm ;  oil  of  Neroli,  three- 
quarters  of  a  drachm  ;  oil  of  English  lavender,  one  drachm  ;  oil 
of  oranges,  one  drachm.  Mix  well,  and  then  filter.  If  these 
proportions  are  too  large,  smaller  ones  may  be  used. 


611.  A  very  pleasant  Perfume,  and  also  preventive  against 
Moths. — Take  of  cloves,  caraway  seeds,  nutmeg,  mace,  cinna- 
mon, and  Tonquin  beans,  of  each  one  ounce ;  then-  add  as  much 
Florentine  orris-root  as  will  equal  the  other  ingredients  put 
together.  Grind  the  whole  well  to  powder,  and  then  put  it  in 
little  bags,  among  yoM^  clothes,  &;c. 

612.  Method  of  extracting  Essences  from  Flowers. — Procure 
a  quantity  of  the  petals  of  any  flowers  which  have  an  agreeable 
fragrance;  card  thin  layers  of  cotton,  which  dip  into  the  finest 
Florence  or  Lucca  oil ;  sprinkle  a  small  quantity  of  fine  salt 
on  the  flowers,  and  lay  them,  a  layer  of  cotton  and  a  layer  of 
flowers,  until  an  earthen  vessel  or  a  wide-mouthed  glass  bottle 
is  full.  Tie  the  top  close  with  a  bladder,  then  lay  the  vessel 
in  a  south  aspect  to  the  heat  of  the  sun,  and  in  fifteen  days, 
when  uncovered,  a  fragrant  oil  may  be  squeezed  away  from 
the  whole  mass,  little  inferior  (if  roses  are  used)  to  the  highly- 
valued^tto  of  roses. 


613.   Curious  small  Cakes  of  Incense  for  perfuming  Apart- 
menu. — Take  equal  quantities  of  lignum  rhodium  and  anise, 


148  MRS.  bale's  eeceipts  for  the  mLLIOX. 

in  powder,  with  a  little  powder  of  dried  Seville  orange-peel, 
and  the  same  of  gum  benzoin,  or  benjamin,  and  beat  all  togetheir 
in  a  marble  mortar :  then,  adding  some  gum-dragon,  or  traga- 
canth,  dissolved  in  rose-water,  put  in  a  little  civet ;  beat  the 
whole  again  together ;  make  up  this  mixture  into  small  cakes, 
and  place  them  on  paper  to  drv.  One  of  these  cakes  being 
burnt  in  the  largest  apartment,  will  diffuse  a  most  agreeable 
odor  through  the  whole  room. 


614.  To  ^perfume  Linen, — Eose-leaves  dried  in  the  shade, 
cloves  beat  to  a  powder,  and  mace,  scraped  \  mix  them  together, 
and  put  the  composition  into  little  bags. 


615.  To  make  an  excellent  Smelling -bottle. — Take  an  equal 
quantity  of  sal-ammoniac  and  unslaked  lime,  pound  them  sepa- 
rately, then  mix,  and  put  them  in  a  bottle  to  smell  to.  Before 
you  put  in  the  above,  drop  two  or  three  drops  of  the  essence 
of  bergamot  in  the  bottle,  then  cork  it  close.  A  drop  or  two 
of  ether,  added  to  the  same,  w^ill  greatly  improve  it. 


616.  Aromatic  Vinegar, — Throw  into  two  pounds  of  acetic 
acid  one  ounce  each  of  the  dried  tops  of  rosemary  and  the  dried 
leaves  of  sage,  half  an  ounce  each  of  the  dried  flowers  of  laven- 
der and  of  bruised  cloves.  Let  them  remain  untouched  for 
seven  days ;  then  express  the  liquid  and  filter  it  through  paper. 
This  is  useful  in  sick  rooms.  ^ 


617.  Lavender  Vinegar, — Prepare  a  stone  jar  or  bot  le,  and 
to  each  pint  of  vinegar  put  into  it,  add  half  an  ounce  of  fresh 
lavender  flowers  ;  cover  closely,  and  set  it  aside  for  a  day  or 
two  ;  then  set  the  jar  upon  hot  cinders  for  eight  or  ten  hours ; 
and  when  cold,  strain  and  bottle  it.    It  is  a  refreshing  perfume. 


618.  Spirit  and  Oil  of  Ro&es, — ^A  few  drops  of  otto  of  roses, 
dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine,  form  the  esprit  de  rose  of  the  per- 
fumers ;  and  the  same  quantity  dissolved  in  fine  sweet  oil, 
their  huile  antique  a  la  rose, 

e 

619.  Essence  of  Music. — Mix  one  drachm  of  musk  with  the 
same  quantity  of  pounded  loaf  sugar ;  add  six  ounces  of  spirit 
of  wine  :  shake  together,  and  pour  off  for  use. 


HEALTH    AND    BEAUTY.  149 

Musk  is  seldom  obtained  pure  :  when  it  smells  of  ammonia, 
it  is  adulterated.  To  preserve  it,  it  should  be  made  quite  dry ; 
when  to  be  used  as  a  perfume,  it  should  be  moistened. 

620.  Odeur  Delectable, — Mix  four  ounces  of  distilled  rose- 
water,  four  ounces  of  orange-flower  water,  one  drachm  of  oil 
of  cloves,  two  drachms  of  oil  of  bergamot,  two  grains  of  musk, 
one  pint  of  spirits  of  wine.  Macerate  thoroughly,  and  add  one 
drachm  of  essence  of  musk.  This  delicious  scent  is  a  universal 
favorite  with  the  ladies  of  the  heau  monde  in  Paris. 


621.  EauD^Ange. — Pound  in  a  mortar  fifteen  cloves  and 
one  pound  of  cinnamon;  put  the  whole  into  a  quart  of  water, 
with  four  grains  anise-seed  ;  let  it  stand  over  a  charcoal  fire 
twenty-four  hours ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor  and  bottle  it. 
The  perfume  is  excellent,  and  will  be  useful  for  the  hands,  face, 
and  hair. 


622.  Shaving. — The  hone  and  razor-strop  should  be  kept  in 
good  condition.  The  German  hone  is  best :  it  should  be  frequently 
moistened  with  oil,  and  laid  up  in  a  place  where  it  will  not 
readily  become  dry :  if  it  be  rubbed  with  soap,  instead  of  oil, 
previously  to  using,  it  will  give  additional  keenness  and  fine- 
ness to  the  edge  of  the  razor. 

•  The  strop  should  al^  be  kept  moist  with  a  drop  or  two  of 
sweet  oil :  a  little  crocus  and  oil  rubbed  in  the  strop  with  a 
glass  bottle  will  give  the  razor  a  fine  edge ;  as  will  also  a 
paste  made  of  tutty  powder  and  solution  of  oxalic  acid. 

Mr.  Knight,  president  of  the  Horticultural  Society,  has 
invented  the  following  apparatus  and  method  of  sharpening  a 
razor :  Procure  a  round  bar  of  cast  steel,  three  inches  long, 
and  about  one-third  of  an  inchjn  diameter;  rub  it  smooth  from 
end  to  end  with  glass  paper ;  next,  smear  over  its  surface  a  paste 
of  oil  and  the  charcoal  of  wheat  straw,  and  fix  the  steel  into  a 
handle.  To  set  a  razor,  dip  it  in  hot  water,  raise  its  back,  and 
move  it  without  pressure,  in  circles,  from  heel  to  point,  and 
back  again ;  clean  the  blade  on  the  palm  of  the  hand,  and  again 
dip  it  into  hot  water.  This  newly  invented  apparatus  may  be 
purchased  at  any  cutler's. 

A  very  small  piece  of  nitre,  dissolved  in  water  and  applied 
to  the  face  after  shaving,  will  remove  any  unpleasant  sensation, 
though  the  first  application  may  be  somewhat  painful. 


150  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

623.  Shaving  Liquids.— -\.  Eub  in  a  marble  mortar  an  ounce 
of  any  fine  soap,  with  tv/o  drachms  of  carbonate  of  potassa. 
When  these  two  substances  are  incorporated,  continue  rubbing, 
and  add  gradually  a  pint  of  lavender-water,  or  any  other  odor- 
ous water  made  by  dissolving  essential  oils  in  alcohol  sixty  de- 
grees above  proof.  When  the  whole  is  well  combined,  filter 
the  liquid,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  To  make  a  lather,  put  a  few 
drops  into  a  wine-glass  of  tepid  water ;  dip  your  brush  in  the  ' 
mixture,  and,  w^hen  rubbed  on  the  face,  a  fine  lather  will  ap- 
peair.  2.  Dissolve  any  quantity  of  fine  soap  in  alcohol,  either 
with  or  without  perfume.  Use  it  according  to  the  preceding 
directions. 


024.  An  Easy  Shave, — The  operation  of  shaving  may  be 
robbed  of  its  unpleasant  sensations  by  rubbing  the  chin  over 
with  grease,  or  a  sweet  oil,  before  the  application  of  the  razor. 
The  best  razor-strop  in  the  world  is  one's  own  hand,  moistened 
with  its  own  natural  oil  or  perspiration.  Sharpen  the  razor 
thus  before  you  wash  your  hands,  and  you  will  find  this  natural 
strop  most  eflBcacious.  After  shaving,  to  allay  irritation,  wash 
the  chin  wuth  Portuoral  water. 


625.  Composition  for  Shaving^  without  the  use  of  razor  ^  soap^ 
or  water. — Mix  one  pint  and  a  half  of  clear  lime-water,  two 
ounces  of  gum-arabic,  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  an  eighth  of  an 
ounce  of  cochineal,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  turmeric-root  (made 
into  powder),  an  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar,  and  an 
eighth  of  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  together :  boil  them  for 
one  hour  at  least  (stirring  up  the  mixture  during  the  whole 
time  of  boiling,  and  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil  over),  clear  it 
through  a  sieve ;  then  add  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  pumice 
stone,  finely  pulverized  ;  mix  the  whole  together  with  the  hands, 
by  the  assistance  of  the  white  of  two  eggs,  w^ell  stirred  up. 
Then  divide  the  cake  into  twelve  small  ones.  Dry  them  in  the 
open  air  for  three  days ;  put  them  into  an  oven  moderately 
heated  for  twenty -four  hours,  when  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 
Apply  them,  with  a  gentle  friction,  to  the  beard,  and  they  will 
produce  the  cflTect  of  shaving  by  rubbing  off  the  hair. 


PAET  III. 
HOME  PURSUITS  AND  DOMESTIC  ARTS. 

Needle-worJc^  Fancy -worh — Preparations  for  Writing — Flow^ 
ers — House  Plants — Birds — Gold  Fish,  dc. 

The  first  and  best  use  of  the  needle  is  common  or  plain 
sewing.  Every  woman  and  girl  should  understand  this  art, 
the  beginning  of  all  arts,  and  the  most  indispensable  to  civili- 
zation. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  dilate  on  the  importance  of  common 
needlework,  and  to  this  female  accomplishment,  so  universally 
necessary,  we  shall  principally  confine  our  directions. 

626.  Requisites  for  jewing, — A  neat  work-box  well  supplied 
with  all  the  implements  required,  including  knife,  scissors  (of 
at  least  three  sizes),  needles  and  pins  in  sufficient  variety,  bod- 
kins, thimbles,  thread  and  cotton,  bobbins,  marking  silks,  black 
lead  pencils,  &c.,  should  be  provided,  and  be  furnished  with  a 
lock  and  key,  to  prevent  the  contents  being  thrown  into  confu- 
sion by  children  or  unauthorized  intruders. 

The  lady,  being  thus  provided,  and  having  her  materials,  im- 
plements, (Sec,  placed  in  order  upon  her  work-table,  to  the  edge 
of  which  it  is  an  advantage  to  have  a  pincushion  affixed  by 
means  of  a  screw — may  commence  her  work,  and  proceed  with 
it  with  pleasure  to  herself,  and  without  annoyance  to  any 
visitor  who  may  favor  her  with  a  call.  We  would  recommend, 
wherever  practicable,  that  the  work-table  should  be  made  of 
cedar,  and  that  the  windows  of  the  working  parlor  should  open 
into  a  garden  well  supplied  with  odoriferous  flowers  and  plants, 
the  perfume  of  which  will  materially  cheer  the  spirits  of  those 


152  iiES.  male's  receipts  tor  tks  million. 

especially,  Avhose  circumstanees  compel  them  to  devote  the 
greatest  portion  of  their  time  to  sedentary  occupations.  If  these 
advantages  cannot  be  obtained,  at  least  the  room  should  be 
well-ventilated,  and  furnished  with  a  few  cheerful  plants,  and 
a  well-filled  scent-jar.  The  beneficent  Creator  intended  all  his 
children,  in  whatever  station  of  life  they  might  be  placed,  to 
share  in  the  common  bounties  of  his  providence ;  and  when  she, 
.who  works  not  for  pleasure,  but  to  obtain  the  means  of  subsist-  • 
ence,  is  compelled  to  seclude  herself,  for  days  or  weeks  to- 
gether, from  the  cheering  influence  of  exercise  in  the  open  air, 
it  becomes  both  her  duty,  and  that  of  those  for  whom  she 
labors,  to  secure  as  much  of  these  advantages,  or  of  the  best 
substitutes  for  them,  .as  the  circumstances  of  the  case  will 
admit. 


EXPLANATION  OF  STITCHES. 

627.  Hemming, — Turn  down  the  raw  edge  as  evenly  as  pos- 
sible. Flatten,  and  be  careful,  especially  in  turning  down  the 
corners.  Hem  from  right  to  left ;  bring  the  point  of  the  needle 
from  the  chest  toward  the  right  hand.  Fasten  the  thread 
without  a  knot,  and  when  you  finish,  sew  several  stitches  close 
together,  and  cut  oflf  the  thread. 

628.  Mantua-maker^ s  Hem. — You  lay  the  raw^  edge  of  one 
of  your  pieces  a  little  below. that  of  the  other;  the  upper  edge 
i^  .then  turned  over  the  other  twice,  and  felled  down  as  strong 
as  possible. 

629.  Sewing  and  Felling. — If  you  have  selvages,  join  them 
together,  and  sew  them  firmly.  If  you  have  raw  edges,  turn 
down  one  of  the  edges  once,  and  the  other  double  the  breadth, 
and  then  turn  half  of  it  back  again.  This  is  for  the  fell.  The 
two  pieces  are  pinned  together,  face  to  face,  and  seamed  to-- 
gether — the  stitches  being  in  a  slanting  direction,  and  just  deep 
enough  to  hold  the  separate  pieces  firmly  together.  Then 
flatten  the  seam  with  the  thumb,  turn  the  w^ork  over,  and  fell  it 
the  same  as  hemming.  The  thread  is  fiistened  by  being  worked 
between  the  pieces,  and  sewn  over. 

.630.  Running. — Take  three  threads^  leave  three^  and,  in  order 
that  the  work  may  be  kept  as  firm  as  possible,  back-stitch 


HOME    PURSUITS    A]N'D    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  153 

occasionally.  If  you  sew  selvages,  they  must  be  joined  evenly- 
together;  but  if  raw  edges,  one  roust  be  turned  down  once, 
and  the  other  laid  upon  it,  but  a  few  threads  from  the  top :  in 
this  case,  it  must  be  felled  afterwards. 


631.  Stitching, — The  work  must  be  as  even  as  possible. 
Turn  down  a  piece  to  stitch  to;  draw  a  thread  to  stitch  upon, 
.twelve  or  fourteen  threads  from  the  edge.  Being  thus  prepared, 
you  take  two  threads  hack^  and  so  bring  the  needle  out  from 
under  two  before.  Proceed  in  this  manner  to  the  end  of  the 
row ;  and,  in  joining  a  fresh  piece  of  thread,  take  care  to  pass 
the  needle  between  the  edges,  and  so  bring  it  out  where  the 
last  stitch  is  finished. 


032.  Gathering, — You  begin  by  taking  the  article  to  be  gather- 
ed, and  dividing  it  into  halves,  and  then  into  quarters,  putting 
on  pins  to  make  the  divisions.  The  piece  to  which  you  are 
intending  to  gather  it,  must  be  gathered  about  twelve  threads 
from  the  top,  taking  three  threads  on  the  needle,  and  leaving 
four ;  and  so  proceeding  alternately  until  one  quarter  is  gather- 
ed. Fasten  the  thread  by  twisting  it  round  a  pin ;  stroke  the 
gathers,  so  that  they  lie  evenly  and  neatly,  .with  a  strong  needle 
or  pin.  You  then  proceed  as  before,  until  all  the  gathers  are 
gathered.  Then  take  out  the  pins,  and  regulate  the  gathers 
of  each  quarter  so  as  to  correspond  with  those  of  the  piece  to 
which  it  is  to  be  sewed.  The  gathers  are  then  to  be  fastened 
on,  one  at  a  time;  and  the  stitches  must  be  in  a  slanting  direc- 
tion. The  part  to  be  gathered  must  be  cut  quite  even  before 
commencing,  or  else  it  will  be  impossible  to  make  the  gathering 
look  well. 


G33.  Double  Gathering^  or  Puffing, — This  is  sometimes  em 
ployed  in  setting  on  frills,  and,  when  executed  properly,,  has  a 
pretty  effect.  You  first  gather  the  top  in  the  usual  way  ;  then, 
having  stroked  down  the  gathers,  you  gather  again  under  the 
first  gathering,  and  of  such  a  depth  as  you  wish  the  puffing  to 
be.  You  then  sew  on  the  first  gathering  to  the  gown,  frock, 
(fee,  you  design  to  trim,  at  a  distance  corresponding  with  the 
width  of  the  puffing,  and  the  second  gathering  sewed  to  the 
edge,  so  as  to  form  a  full  hem.  You  may  make  a  double  hem, 
if  you  please,  by  gathering  three  times  instead  of  only  twice; 
And  one  of  the  hems  may  be  straight,  while  the  other  is  drawn 


154  MRS.    male's    EICEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

to  one  side  a  little.     This  requires  much  exactness  in  the  exe* 

cution,  but,  if  properly  done,  it  gives  a  pleasing  variety  to  the 
work. 


634.  German  Hemming, — Turn  down  both  the  raw  edges 
once,  taking  care  so  to  do  it  as  that  both  turns  may  be  toward 
your  person ;  you  then  lay  one  below  the  other,  so  as  that  the 
smooth  edge  of  the  nearest  does  not  touch  the  other,  but  lies 
just  beneath  it.  The  lower  one  is  then  to  be  hemmed  or  felled 
to  the  piece  against  which  you  have  laid  it,  stil]  holding  it  be- 
fore you.  You  are  next  to  open  your  sleeve,  or  whatever  else 
you  have  been  employed  upon,  and,  laying  the  upper  fold  over 
the  lower,  fell  it  down,  and  the  work  is  done. 


635.  Binding, — Various  kinds  of  work  have  binding  set  on 
to  them,  in  preference  to  hemming  them,  or  working  them  in 
herring-bone  stitch.  Flannel  is  generally  bound,  sometimes 
with  a  thin  tape,  made  for  the  purpose,  and  called  "  flannel 
binding."  It  is  also  common  to  bind  flannel  with  sarcenet 
riband.  The  binding  is  so  put  on  as  to  show  but  little  over 
the  edge  on  the  right  side,  where  it  is  hemmed  down  neatly ; 
on  the  other  side  it  is  run  on  with  small  stitches. 


636.  Braiding, — Silk  braid  looks  pretty,  and  is  used  for  a 
variety  of  purposes.  In  putting  it  on,  it  is  best  to  sew  it  with 
silk  drawn  out  of  the  braid,  as  it  is  a  better  match,  and  the 
stiiches  will  be  less  perceived. 


637.  Marking,- — It  is  of  essential  importance  that  clothes 
should  be  marked  and  numbered.  This  is  often  done  with  ink ; 
but  as  some  persons  like  to  mark  with  silk,  we  shall  describe 
the  stitch.  Two  threads  are  to  be  taken  each  way  of  the  cloth, 
and  the  needle  must  be  passed  three  ways,  in  order  that  the 
stitch  may  be  complete.  The  first  is  aslant  from  the  person, 
toward  the  right  hand  ;  the  second  is  downward  toward  you ; 
and  the  third  is  the  reverse  of  the  first — that  is,  aslant  from  you, 
toward  the  left  hand.  The  needle  is  to  be  brought  out  at  the 
corner  of  the  stitch  nearest  to  that  you  are  about  to  make. 
The  shapes  of  the  letters  or  figures  can  be  learned  from  an 
inspection  of  any  common  sampler. 

638.  Piping, — This  is  much  used  in  ornamenting  children's 
and  other  dresses.     It  is  made  by  enclosing  a  card  of  the  proper 


HOMB    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  165 

thickness  in  a  strip  of  silk  cut  crosswise,  and  must  be  put  on 
as  evenly  as  possible. 

639.  Plaiting, — The  plaits  must  be  as  even  as  it  is  possible 
to  place  them  one  against  another.  In  double  plaiting,  they 
lie  both,  ways,  and  meet  in  the  middle. 

640.  To  keep  Thready  Sewing-silk^  d:c, — In  making  up  linen, 
thread  is  much  preferable  to  cotton.  "Sewing-silk  should  be 
folded  up  neatly  in  wash-leather,  and  colored  threads  and  cotton 
in  paper,  as  the  air  and  light  are  likely  to  injure  them.  But- 
tons, hooks  and  eyes,  and  all  metal  implements,  when  not  in 
use,  should  be  kept  folded  up,  as  exposure  to  the  air  not  onlj 
tarnishes  them,  but  is  likely  to  injure  them  in  a  variety  of  ways. 


INSTRUCTIONS  IN  THE  PREPARATION  OF  HOUSE-LINEN. 

641.  Bedroom  Linen. — This  includes  quilts,  blankets,  sheets, 
pillow-covers,  towels,  table-covers  and  pincushion-covers. 

642.  Quilts. — These  are  of  various  sizes  and  qualities,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  purposes  to  which  they  are  applied.  They 
are  generally  made  of  the  outside  material  and  the  lining — 
wadding  or  flannel  being  laid  between — and  stitched  in  dia- 
monds or  other  devices.  The  stitches  must  pass  through  the 
whole,  and  the  edges  of  the  quilt  are  to  be  secured  by  a  braid- 
ing or  binding  proper  for  the  purpose.  They  are  best  done  in 
a  frame. 


643.  Blankets, — These  are  generally  bought,  ready-prepared 
for  use.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  work  over  the  edges  at 
the  end,  which  should  be  done  with  scarlet  worsted,  in  a  very 
wide  kind  of  button-hole  stitch. 


644.  Sheets. — These  are  made  of  fine  linen,  coarse  linen,  and 
cotton-sheeting.  Linen  sheets  are  best  for  summer,  and  many 
prefer  them  at  all  seasons.  If  the  sheeting  is  not  sufficiently 
wide  for  the  bed,  two  lengths  must  be  sewed  together.  The 
seam  up  the  middle  must  be  sewed  as  neatly  as  possible,  and 
the  ends  may  be  either  hemmed  or  seamed:  the  latter  is  the 
preferable  method.  Sheets  and  all  bedroom  linen  should  bo 
marked  and  numbered;  to  add  the  date  of  the  year  is  also  an 
advantage. 


156  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

645.  Pilloio-cases. — These  are  made  of  fine  or  coarse  linen, 
and  sometimes  of  cotton  cloth.  The  material  should  be  of  such 
a  width  as  to  correspond  with  the  length  of  the  pillow.  One 
yard  and  three  nails,  doubled  and  seamed  up,  is  the  proper  size. 
One  end  is  seamed  up,  and  the  other  hemmed  with  a  broad 
hem,  and  furnished  with  strings  or  buttons  as  is  deemed  most 
convenient.  We  think  the  preferable  way  of  making  pillow 
cavers  is  to  procure  a  material  of  a  sufficient  width,  when 
doubled,  to  admit  the  pillow.  The  selvages  are  then  sewed  to- 
gether, and  the  ends  seamed  and  hemmed  as  before  directed. 
Bolster  covers  are  made  in  nearly  the  same  manner,  only  that 
a  round  patch  is  let  into  one  end,  and  a  tape  for  a  slot  is  ruu 
into  the  other. 


646.  Toivels. — Towels  are  made  of  diaper  or  huckaback,  of  a 
quality  adapted  to  the  uses  to  which  they  are  applicable.  They 
should  be  one  yard  long  and  about  ten  or  twelve  nails  wide. 
The  best  are  bought  single,  and  are  fringed  at  the  ends.  Others 
are  neatly  hemmed,  and  sometimes  have  a  tape-loop  attached 
to  them,  by  which  they  can  be  suspended  against  a  wall. 

647.  Dressing  Table  Covers. — These  may  be  made  of  any 
material  that  is  proper  for  the  purpose.  Fine  diaper  generally, 
but  sometimes  dimity  and  muslin  are  employed,  or  the  table  is 
covered  with  a  kind  of  Marseilles  quilting,  which  is  prepared 
expressly  for  tEe  purpose.  Sometimes  the  covers  are  merely 
hem^med  round,  but  they  look  much  neater  if  fringed,  or  bor- 
dered with  a  moderately  full  frill.  Sometimes  a  worked  bor- 
der is  set  on.  All  depends  upon  taste  and  fancy.  A  neat  and 
genteel  appearance,  in  accordance  with  the  furniture  of  the 
apartment,  should  be  especially  regarded, 

648.  Pincushion  Covers. — A  large  pincushion,  having  two 
covers  belonging  to  it,  should  belong  to  each  toilet  table.  The 
covers  are  merely  a  bag  into  which  the  cushion  is  slipped.  They 
may  be  either  w^orked  or  plain  ;  always  of  white  muslin  or 
linen  cambric ;  and  should  have  small  tassels  at  each  corner, 
and  a  frill  or  frinfije  all  round. 


649.  Tohle  Linen, — This  department  of  plain  needlework 
comprises  table-cloths,  dinner-napkins,  and  large  and  small  tray 
napkins. 


HOME    PURSUITS   AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  157 

650.  Table-cloths, — These  may  be  purchased  either  singly, 
or  cut  from  the  piece.  In  the  latter  case  the  ends  should  be 
hemmed  as  neatly  as  possible,  and  marked  and  numbered. 

651.  JJinnw  J}^rq:kinS'. — These  are  oi' various  in  ateri^Js;  if  cut 
from  the  piece,  they  must  be  hemmed  at  the  ends  the  sants-^s 
table-cloths.  Large  and  small  tray  napkins  and  knife-box 
cloths,  are  made  in  the  same  manner.  The  hemming  of  all 
these  should  be  extremely  neat.  It  is  a  pretty  and  light  em- 
ployment for  very  young  ladies ;  little  girls  even  should  do 
this  work,  and  thus  early  acquire  habits  of  neatness  and  useful- 
ness, which  will  prove  useful  in  after  life. 


652.  Housemaid  and  Kitchen  Linen, — In  the  housemaid's  de- 
partment, paint  cloths,  old  and  soft,  and  chamber  bottle  cloths, 
fine  and  soft,  are  to  be  provided.  To  these  must  be  added 
dusters,  flannels  for  scouring,  chamber  bucket-cloths^  which  last 
should  be  of  a  kind  and  color  different  from  everything  else. 
All  these  must  be  neatly  hemmed  and  run,  or  seamed  if  neees- 
sary.  Nothing,  in  a  well-directed  family,  should  bear  the  im- 
press of  neglect,  or  be  suffered  to  assume  an  untidy  appearance. 

653.  Clothes-hags,  —  Clothes-bags  of  different  sizes  should 
also  be  provided,  of  two  yards  in  length,  and  either  one  breadth 
doubled,  in  which  case  only  one  seam  will  be  required,  or  of 
two  breadths,  which  makes  the  bags  more  suitable  for  large 
articles  of  clothing.  These  bags  are  to  be  seamed  up  neatly  at 
the  bottom,  and  to  have  strings  which  will  draw  run  in  at  the 
top.  The  best  material  is  canvas,  or  strong  unbleached  linen. 
In  the  kitchen  department,  you  will  require  both  table  and 
dresser  cloths,  which  should  be  made  as  neat  as  possible. 

654.  Mending, — In  cutting  up  an  old  garment,  it  is  a  great 
advantage  to  have  a  portion  of  the  same  material  new.  For 
this  reason,  when  purchasing  cloth  for  a  new  garment,  buy  a 
little  additional  quantity  for  repairs,  and  take  care  that  it  is  kept 
for  that  purpose,  and  not  wasted  in  any  way. 

It  was  formerly  the  custom  with  all  careful  women,  when 
buying  a  dress,  to  buy  an  extra  yard  for  new  sleeving.  To  bo 
sure  a  gown  was  then  more  expensive  than  now ;  but  it  should 
be  remembered,  that  if  six  gowns  can  be  bought  for  the  money 
that  used  to  buy  three  or  four,  they  cannot  be  n]ade  up  in  the 


158  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

same  time  at  home,  nor  for  the  same  money  if  put  out,  Anv 
tolerably  handy  woman,  though  she  may  not  choose  to  venturo 
upon  cuttmg  out  and  making  a  new  dress,  may  repair  one, 
having 'the  old  pattern  and  lining  to  work  by,  and  the  very 
creases  and  stitches  fojva  guide.  If,  by  so  doing,  a  gc^^  v/ill 
wear  liair  as  long  again,  the  price  of  a  littie'"  over-quantity  at 
"nrst,  and  a  few  hours  employed  on  the  work,  are  well  bestowed. 
The  same  remark  applies  to  the  garments  of  men.  Unless 
these  be  bought  ready-made,  the  pieces  should  be  carefully  laid 
by  for  repairs.  In  children's  clothing,  these  alterations  and  re- 
pairs are  often  needed. 


655.  PatchworJc. — Many  improvements  may  be  made  in 
patchwork  that  most  of  us  have  been  accustomed  to  see  for 
years.  It  is  a  kind  of  needlework  very  interesting  for  littie 
girls ;  and  old  ladies  frequently  resort  to  this  for  amusement 
by  their  cosy  firesides,  during  the  long  winter  evenings,  when 
tired  of  reading. 

656.  Of  the  Materials, — The  materials  necessary  for  patch- 
work are  such  portions  of  wearing  apparel,  whether  cloth,  cali- 
co, linen,  holland,  silk,  velvet,  cotton,  <Sz;c.,  such  as  would  other- 
wise be  thrown  away,  or  saved  for  the  rag-man.  No  matter 
how  small  the  portion,  every  scrap  has  its  use.  The  next  ne- 
cessary article  is  some  stiff  paper — old  envelopes,  backs  of  let- 
ters, brown  paper,  &c.,  to  form  the  shapes ;  lastly,  the  design — •* 
shapes,  cut  out  in  tin^  and  the  designs  themselves. 

The  materials  should  be  arranged  into  shades  and  qualit^s. 
After  having  been  cut  to  required  sizes,  and  the  irregularities 
of  the  edges  neatly  repaired,  they  are  ready  for  use. 

657.  Patterns, — The  'patterns  may  be  varied  ad  injiniium,  if 
the  person  possesses  the  least  talent  for  drawing ;  but  for  the 
sake  of  those  who  may  not  be  able  to  do  this,  we  submit  the 
following  simple  and  effective  designs  to  be  executed  in  any 
of  the  materials. 


658.  To  make  the  Patchwork, — The  pattern  should  be  placed 
before  the  person,  and  the  shades  being  selected,  the  several 
pieces  arranged  so  as  to  form  the  design,  and  the  edges  then 
neatly  sewed  together ;  after  which  they  are  either  pressed,  or 
ironed,  the  papers  removed,  and  the  lining  proceeded  with. 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS, 


159 


When  silks  and  velvets  are  employed,  it  improves  the  effect 
to  combine 'the  two,  taking  the  silk  for  the  lighter,  and  the  vel- 
vet for  the  darker  shades;  or,  as  in  figures  5,  6^  8,  and  11,  to 
have  silk  for  the  lighter  shades,  and  two  velvets  for  the  others, 
shaded  to  pattern. 

A  very  pretty  effect  is  produced  by  combining  Holland  and 
calico,  silk  and  satin,  silk  or  satin  and  velvet,  and  rough  and 
fine  cloth. 

The  various  articles  that  may  be  manufactured,  are  quilts  in 
colored  and  white  calico  ;  anti-macassars  in  silks  ;  ottomans  in 
silks  and  velvets,  silks  and  cloth ;  table-covers  in  silks  and 
cloth ;  cushions  for  chairs  or  sofas,  m  silks ;  and  mats,  rugs,  and 
carpets,  in  cloth. 

We  have  seen  many  useful  white  quilts  for  children's  cots, 
made  from  the  cuttings  remaining  after  shirt  making.  The 
centre  might  be  of  Holland  and  calico,  pattern  10,  fig.  5,  and 
then  fig.  7,  with  a  fringe  border,  knitted.  Numerous  rugs 
might  be  made  in  colored  cloths,  to  look  equal  to  carpets,  for 
poor  people,  and  wear  much  better. 


<I> 


r^  ^♦^ 


160 


MRS.  n ale's  receipts  for  thb  million. 


AN   ELEGANT   MUSNUD   FOR    A    SOFA. 


HOME   PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  161 

659.  The  materials  required,  consist  of  braid  of  various  hues, 
purse-silk  of  different  shades,  bed-ticking,  feathers,  down,  horse- 
hair, or  worsted  ends ;  the  design-shapes,  some  cord  for  pijUngs, 
the  various  colored  cloths,  silks,  &;c.,  and  a  curtain-ring  or  a 
piece  of  cardboard  for  the  centre. 

The  size  varies  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  inches  in  diameter, 
according  to  taste.    • 

The  colors  cannot  be  fixed,  because  it  depends  much  upon 
taste,  but  we  have  made  the  elegant  musnud  given  p.  160,  by 
placing  cobalt  as  the  right  hand  centre-piece,  then  (proceeding 
from  right  to  left)  white,  salmon,  pifrple,  crimson,  amber,  pea 
green,  and  madder-brown.  The  handles  are  amber,  the  side 
brown,  and  the  back  purple. 

It  is  better,  in  combining  or  arranging  all  colors  for  patch- 
work, to  keep  as  near  as  possible  to  the  harmony  observed  by 
Nature  ;  therefore,  to  attend  to  the  same  order  displayed  in  the 
case  of  a  refracted  ray  of  light,  viz.,  violet,  indigo,  blue,  green, 
yellow,  orange,  and  red,  adding,  in  this  case,  white,  to  represent 
the  ray  in  its  natural  state  before  refraction  or  dispersion  of  its 
colors  took  place. 

To  make  the  Musnud, — Cut  two  circles  of  fifteen  or  eighteen 
inches  in  diameter  in  bed-ticking,  and  a  strip  of  the  same  mate- 
rial three  inches  deep,  and  thrice  the  length  of  the  diameter; 
make  into  the  usual  shape,  and  stuff  with  feathers,  down,  horse- 
hair, or  the  refuse  ends  of  worsted.  Cut  out  two  handles  as  in 
the  design,  of  the  same  material,  and  sew  them  on.  Rub  the 
inside  of  the  bed-ticking  with  a  lump  of  bees'-wax  previous  to 
making  up  the  musnud,  (as  it  prevents  the  feathers  and  dust 
working  through,)  and  tack  the  centre  down. 

Cut  out  the  back  in  a  piece  of  purple  moreen,  or  any  othei 
material,  then  cut  four  strips  of  brown  cashmere,  each  three 
inches  deep  and  five  long,  join  these  neatly  together  to  form 
the  side,  and  braid  the  following  design  in  bright  yellow  on 
it,  finishing  the  veining  of  the  leaves  in  chain-stitch  with  purse 
silk. 

The  wedge-shaped  pieces  should  now  be  cut  out  in  the  va-  . 
rious  colored  cloths,  &;c.,  and  braided  as  in  the  design,  four  being 
braided  with  floral,  and  four  with  fancy  designs.  Each  piece 
should  measure  nine  inches  in  length  and  six  inches  and  three- 
quarters  in  breadth  at  the  outer  part.  The  centre  piece  should 
measure  two  inches  and  a  quarter  in  diameter,  be  of  a  dark 
brown,  and  braided  with  a  bright  yellow  star, 
11 


162  MRS.    HALI'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

To  cover  the  musnud^  sew  the  pieces  neatly  together,  and 
cover  the  joining  with  narrow  strips  of  dark  brown  cloth, 
braided  in  br^'ght  yellow  to  resemble  a  chain  ;  cover  the  curtain 
ring,  or  circular  piece  of  card-board,  with  the  central  piece,  and 
sew  it  on. 

Now  affix  the  pipings  cut  crossways  out  of  brown  cloth,  and 
cover  the  handles  with  ajnber-colored  njaterial,  braid  and  pipe 
them  ;  join  the  back  to  the  side  with  an  intervening  piping,  slip 
the  musnud  into  the  lower  covering,  and  sew  on  the  top. 

In  hraiding  the  patterns,  the  purple  ground  should  have  a 
scarlet  braid. 

The  brown,  yellow. 

In  finishing  the  braiding,  it  will  require  the  occasional  aid  of 
some  chain-stitch  work  in  purse-silk,  for  the  veinings  of  the 
leaves,  stamens,  tendrils,  &c. 

Note, — This  particularity  in  arranging  colors  and  patterns 
may  seem  very  trifling  to  some  people ;  but  rules  are  required 
in  all  finished  work.  Habits  of  attention  are  an  important  part 
of  education,  or,  rather,  are  indispensable  to  a  well-trained 
mind.  Therefore,  we  say,  be  particular  to  do  all  you  undertake 
in  a  proper  manner;  and  if  you  are  making  patchwork^  aim  at 
perfection  of  its  kind.  But  never  fall  in  love  with  your  own 
creations,  and  worship  them  as  idols;  and  never  neglect  com- 
mon household  duties  for  fanciful  needlework.  Eemember, 
also,  that  reading  is  more  refining  to  the  taste  than  finger-work ; 
and  that  to  read  well  is  a  much  higher  accomplishment  than  any 
mere  skill  in  counting  stitches  and  matching  shades^ 


FOR  SILK  EMBROIDERY. 

660.  Useful  Patterns  for  worhing  in  Cord^  Silk,  and  Muslin. — 
These  are  what  are  called  "  endless  patterns,"  to  be  worked  in 
cord. 

These  fashions  for  embroidering  the  borders  of  cloaks,  pelisses, 
sacques,  &c.,  on  merino,  or  fine  cassimere,  or  flannel,  with  silk, 
are  to  be  wrought  with  coarse  or  fine  silk,  or  with  a  mixture 
of  the  two,  according -to  the  degree  of  intricacy  or  simplicity 
in  the  parts  of  the  pattern. 

We  give  two  designs ;  from  these,  other  combinations  may 
be  made,  to  suit  the  fancy  of  the  embroiderer. 


HOME    PURSUITS    A.ND    DOMESTIC    ARTS. 


/163 


SILK   EMBROIDERY,    ANOTHER    WAY, 
See  p,  164. 

G61. — In  these  patterns  for  embroidering  the  borders  of 
cloaks,  pelisses,  sacques,  (fee,  on  merino,  or  fine  cassimere,  or 
flannel,  with  silk,  are  to  be  wrought  with  coarse  or  fine  silk,  or 
with  a  mixture  of  the  two,  according  to  the  degree  of  intricacy 
or  simplicity  in  the  parts  of  the  pattern. 

These  patterns  are  equally  serviceable  for  muslin,  or  any 
other  material. 

No.  1,  to  be  worked  on  fine  flannel  or  merino,  with  a  mixture 
of  coarse  and  fine  silk. 

No.  2.  to  be  worked  oa  flannel  or  merino,  with  fine  silk. 


Na  L 


.    No.  2. 


HOME   PURSUITS    AND    DOMJESTIC    ARTS.  165 

662.  Sewing  on  glazed  Calico. — Bj  passing  a  cake  of  white 
soap  a  few  times  over  a  piece  of  glazed  calico,  or  any  other 
stiffened  material,  the  needle  will  penetrate  as  easily  as  through 
any  other  kind  of  work. 


663.  To  make  Glass  Jars  to  look  like  China, — Paint  figures 
to  resemble  those  in  China  jars,  and  cut  them  out  so  that  none 
of  the  white  paper  remains;  then,  with  thick  gum-arabic  w^ater, 
fasten  them  to  the  inside  of  the  glass;  Let  thejn  stand  to  dry 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  wipe  off  with  a  wet  cloth  the  gum- 
arabic  on  the  glass  between  the  prints,  and  let  them  stand  a 
few  hours  longer.  Then  take  white  wax  and  flake  white,  ground 
very  fine,  and  melt  them  together.  With  a  japanning-brush 
go  over  all  the  glass  above  the  prints :  done  in  this  manner, 
they  will  hold  water.  For  a  blue  ground,  use  white  wax  and 
Prussian  blue,  ground  fine ;  for  red,  wc\x  and  vermilion,  or  car- 
mine ;  for  green,  wax  and  verdigris ;  for  chocolate,  wax  and 
burnt  umber. 


664.  To  give  Plaster  Figures  the  appearance  of  Marble, — Put 
into  a  well-glazed  earthen  vessel,  four  pounds  of  clear  water 
and  one  ounce  of  pure  curd  soap,  grated  ;  add  one  ounce  of 
white  bees'-wax,  cut  into  thin  slices.  Let  them  dissolve  over 
a  slow  fire.  As  soon  as  the  whole  is  incorporated,  it  is  fit  for 
use.  Let  the  figure  be  thoroughly  dried,  then  suspend  it  by  a 
twine,  and  dip  it  once  into  the  varnish ;  upon  taking  it  out,  the 
varnish  will  appear  to  have  been  absorbed ;  in  two  minutes* 
time,  stir  the  compost,  and  dip  it  a  second  time,  which  is  gene- 
rally sufficient.  Cover  it  carefully  from  the  dust  for  a  week ; 
thcH,  with  a  soft  muslin  rag,  rub  the  figure  gently,  when  a  most 
brilliant  gloss  will  be  produced. 


665.   To  improve  Plaster  Casts. — Brush  them  over  with  size, 
ind,  when  dry,  varnish  them  with  copal  varnish. 


666.  To  dissolve  Putty, — To  remove  old  putty  from  glazed 
frames,  brush  over  it  pearlash  and  slaked  stone-burnt  lime, 
mixed  to  the  thickness  of  paint. 


146 


MRS.    HALE  S    RECEIPTS    FOP.    THE    MILLION. 


ANGLO-JAPANESE  WORK. 


667.  This  elegant  and  most  useful  work  is  very  easy  in  its 
execution,  while  the  means  and  appliances  for  its  performance 
are  within  the  reach  of  every  one.  The  materials  are  simply 
yellow  withered  leaves,  a  little  dissolved  gum,  black  paint,  and 
copal  varnish :  while  the  objects  to  be  ornamented  may  be  a 
box,  cupboard,  table,  &c.,  in  fact,  any  old  furniture  that  has 
been  rendered  unsightly  by  age  or  long  use.  A  plain  deal  box, 
costing  about  a  shilling,  may  by  this  process,  so  far  as  the  out- 
side goes,  be  converted  into  a  costly-looking  dressing-case.     An 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    IK)MEGTIC    AKTfe,  167 

exquisite  chess-board  may  be  made,  with  very  little  skill,  from 
a  square  piece  of  deal.  Flower-pots,  pole-screens,  folding  and 
hand-screens,  may  all  be  decorated  in  this  manner,  and,  from 
untidy-looking  lumber,  may  be  converted  into  articles  of  use, 
elegance,  and  beauty ;  and  this  at  a  merely  nominal  expense, 
taste  being  the  chief  requisite  in  the  production.  The  employ- 
ment forms  one  of  the  most  agreeable  and  pleasing  amusements 
for  summer  da)s  and  winter  evenings;  in  the  summer,  giving 
a  purpose  and  an  aim  to  many  a  joyous  ramble,  for  in  these 
desultory  walks  a  goodly  collection  may  be  made  of  Nature's 
ambered  jewels. 

All  leaves  that  are  small,  of  uneven  shape,  and  serrated  at 
the  edges,  are  well  adapted  for  this  work.  As  they  are  collect- 
ed, they  should  be  placed  between  sheets  of  paper,  but  not 
close  together,  then  pressed  by  placing  a  board  on  the  top, 
with  a  weight  upon  it,  to  express  any  moisture  that  may  be 
therein,  and  to  render  them  quite  flat.  In  the  autumn,  the 
sweet-scented  geranium-leaves,  the  maple,  thorn,  chrysanthe- 
mum, wild  parsley,  fern,  and  a  multitude  of  others,  may  be 
found,  including  the  smaller  sycamore  and  small  vine-leaves ; 
but  they  must  all  have  turned  of  a  golden  hue,  or  reddish-tinted 
yellow.  Prepare  the  article  to  be  ornamented,  thus: — First 
rub  the  surface  smoothly  down  with  sand-paper ;  then  coat  it 
over  with  black  paint,*  which  can  be  procured,  ready-mixed, 
at  any  oil-shop;  when  dry,  rub  it  down  smoothly  with  pumice- 
stone,  and  give  two  more  coats.  When  these  are  dry,  arrange 
the  leaves  on  the  surface  in  a  careless  manner,  but  not  in  groups, 
unless  preferred.  Butterflies  drawn,  and  colored  yellow  with 
gamboge,  or  cut  out  of  prints,  and  then  colored,  may  be  stuck 
at  different  spaces  with  advantage ;  but  tlii^re  should  be  no 
other  color  than  the  brown  and  diflerent  tints  of  yellow  in  the 
leaves.  Gum  the  wrong  side  of  the  leaf,  and  press  it  on  in  its 
appointed  place  with  a  hard  tuft  of  wadding,  fastened  tightly 
up  in  a  piece  of  silk.  Continue  this  with  the  whole  of  the 
leaves;  and  when  they  are  all  gummed  on,  dissolve  some  gela- 
tine or  isinglass  in  warm  water,  and  while  rather  warm,  brush 
It  well  over  every  portion  of  the  work,  using  the  brush  entirely 
one  way,  not  forward  and  back.  When  dry,  give  the  work 
three  coats  of  the  best  copal  varnish,  letting  the  article  remain 
a  day  or  two  between  each  coat.  Thii^rocess,  though  elabo- 
rate in  detail,  is  easily  and  even  quickly  done,  and  will  well 
repay  any  trouble  that  may  be  taken,  as,  with  a  renewed  coat 


IQS  MRS.    H ale's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

of  varnish  every  five  or  six  years,  it  will  remain,  as  long  as  the 
wood  will  hold  together,  as  bright  in  appearance  as  when  first 
finished. 


668.  Sealing  Wax  Varnish,— For  fancy  work,  this  has,  of 
late  years,  been  much  used,  and  if  well  applied,  and  the  wax 
good,  will  be  a  very  good  imitation  of  India  Japan.  The  me- 
thod of  making  the  varnish  or  japan  is  very  easy,  being  simply 
reducing  the  wax  to  a  coarse  powder,  and  pouring  the  best  spirits 
of  wine  on  it  in  a  bottle,  and  letting  it  gradually  dissolve  with- 
out heat,  shaking  the  bottle  occasionally  till  it  is  all  dissolved. 
A  two-ounce  stick  of  the  best  wax  will  be  enough  for  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  spirits.  Eecollect  that  much  depends  on  the  good- 
ness of  the  sealing-wax  ;  and  that  you  may  vary  the  color  of  the 
varnish  by  using  different  colored  wax.  As  this  varnish  dries 
very  quickly,  it  should  not  be  made  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 


669.  Method  of  preparing  the  Composition  used  for  Colored 
Drawings  and  Prints,  so  as  to  make  them  resemble  Paint  in  Oil. 
— Take  of  Canada  Balsam,  one  ounce  ;  spirit  of  turpentine,  two 
ounces  ;  mix  them  together.  Before  this  composition  is  applied, 
the  drawing  or  print  should  be  sized  with  a  solution  of  isinglass 
in  water,  and  when  dry,  apply  the  varnish  with  a  camel-hair 
brush..  •  . 


670.  Oil  and  Water  Gilding. — In  oil  gilding,  the  frame  is  first 
eovered  with  a  composition  of  whiting  and  parchment  size,  then 
with  a  coating  of  "  oil  gold  size^''  (a  kind  of  varnish,)  upon  which 
when  nearly  dry,  gold  leaf  is  applied. 


671.  In  Water  Gilding^  a  size  mixed  with  water  is  used. 
Parts  of  the  frame  are  burnished,  other  parts  left  dead.  This 
is  the  most  beautiful  and  expensive  style  of  gilding,  but  it  does 
not  bear  washing  as  oil  gilding  does. 

["  The  Carver  and  Gilder,"  published  by  Knight,  furnishes 
much  useful  information  on  this  subject.] 


672.  To  mount  Prints  or  Maps, — Upon  a  table,  floor,  or  board, 
stretch  a  piece  of  calico  or  smooth  canvas,  by  first  fixing  it  with 
tacks  along  one  side,  then  straining  it  tightly  with  one  nand, 
and  driving  the  tacks  #lth  the  other :  nail  the  remaining  edges, 
leaving  no  wrinkles  on  the  surface.    Paste  the  back  of  the  print 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  169 

or  map,  fold  it  together,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  paper  13 
soaked^  then  open  it,  and  place  it  evenly  on  the  canvas,  cover  it 
with  a  sheet  of  clean  paper,  and  beginning  in  the  middle,  rub  it* 
down  carefully  with  the  hand,  going  from  the  centre  all  round 
to  the  edges,  until  all  the  air  is  excluded,  and  the  paper  adheres 
olosely  to  the  canvas.  When  quite  dry,  with  a  large  camel- 
hair  brush  lay  on  a  coating  of  parchment  size,  repeating  this 
when  dry  :  then  varnish  with  mastic  varnish.  Parchment  size 
is  made  by  boiling  parchment  cuttings  in  water,  until  it  forms 
a  jelly  when  cold.  Mastic  varnish  may  be  procured  at  oil  and 
color-shops. 


673.  New  Camera  Lucida, — Sir  John  Robinson  devised,  a  few 
years  since,  a  cheap  and  easily-used  camera  lucida,  applicable 
to  the  delineation  of  flowers  and  other  small  objects.  A  piece 
of  plate  glass  is  made  to  stand  in  a  vertical  position  by  means 
of  a  support.  It  rests  on  a  table  covered  with  white  paper, 
and  the  object  is  placed  on  the  paper  on  one  side  of  the  glass. 
On  looking  down  from  that  side  of  the  glass  diagonally,  an 
image  of  the  object  is  seen  on  the  paper  on  the  other  side,  and 
a  drawing  of  it  can  be  readily  taken. 


674.  Varnish  for  Oil  Pictures. — According,  to  the  number  of 
your  pictures,  take  the  whites  of  the  same  number  of  eggs,  and 
an  equal  number  of  pieces  of  sugar-candy,  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut, 
dissolved,  and  mix  it  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  brandy ;  beat  the 
whites  of  your  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  let  it  settle ;  take  the  clear, 
put  it  to  your  brandy  and  sugar,  mix  them  well  together,  and 
varnish  over  your  pictures  with  it. 

This  is  much  better  than  any  other  varnish,  as  it  is  easily 
washed  off  when  your  pictures  want  cleaning  again. 


675.  To  take  Impressions  of  Butterflies*  Wings, — Lay  the 
wings  gently  on  paper,  wet  with  gum  arable  water,  and  nearly 
dry  ;  a  copy  will  be  left  when  the  wing  is  removed,  but  inferior 
in  beauty  to  the  wing  itself.  It  is  better  to  gum  the  wings 
themselves  on  paper,  and  paint  the  body  of  the  fly  in  its  natural 
position. 


676.  To  preserve  the  Eggs  of  Birds, — First  clean  them  of  their 
contents.  This  may  be  done  with  the  larger  eggs  by  making 
a  hole  on  one  side  large  enough  to  admit  a  quill,  and  shaking  out 


170  MKS.  Hale's  receipts  for  Tua  milijox. 

the  contents.  Then  wash  them  well  with  a  solution  of  camphor, 
not  too  strong,  or  it  will  make  them  brittle.  When  dry,  fasten 
them  with  gum  on  the  side  in  which  the  hole  was  made  to  a 
piece  of  card  board,  and  write  the  name  under  each.  As  the 
colors  of  many  of  them  are  perishable,  to  preserve  them  give 
them  a  slight  coating  of  varnish.  The  best  varnish  for  this 
purpose  is  isinglass  dissolved  in  gin.  In  cleaning  the  smaller 
eggs,  make  a  hole  at  each  end,  a  little  to  one  side,  and  blow 
them.     The  camphor  solution  need  not  be  used. 


677.  To  make  Artificial  Coral. — Melt  together  four  parts  of 
yellow  resin  and  one  part  of  vermilion.  Dip  twigs,  cinders  or 
stones  in  this,  and  when  dry  they  will  resemble  coral. 


678.  An  Excellent  Pen-  Wiper  for  Steel  Pens. — Fill  a  short, 
wide-mouthed  vial  with  shot,  the  smaller  the  better.  When- 
ever it  is  necessary  to  clean  the  pen,  rub  it  up  and  down  in  the 
shot.  This  is  much  more  effectual  than  cloth  wipers,  and  the 
shot  will  last  a  life-time. 


679.  To  preserve  Steel  Pens. — Metallic  pens  may  be  pre- 
served from  rusting  by  throwing  into  the  bottle  containing  the 
ink  a  few  nails,  or  broken  pieces  of  steel  pens,  if  not  varnished. 
The  corrosive  action  of  the  acid  which  the  ink  contains  is  ex- 
pended on  the  iron  so  introduced,  and  will  not  therefore  affect 
ihe  pen. 


680.  Black  Paper  for  drawing  Patterns. —  Mix  and  smooth 
lamp-black  and  sweet  oil;  with  a  bit  of  flannel  cover  a  sheet 
or  two  of  large  writing-paper  with  this  mixture;  then  dab  the 
paper  dry  with  a  bit  of  fine  linen,  and  keep  it  by  for  using  in 
the  following  manner : — Put  the  black  side  on  another  sheet 
of  paper,  and  fasten  the  corners  together  with  small  pins.  Lay 
on  the  back  o^  the  black  paper  the  pattern  to  be  drawn,  and 
go  over  it  with  the  point  of  a  steel  pencil ;  the  black  paper  will 
then  leave  the  impression  of  the  pattern  on  the  under  sheet,  on 
which  you  must  draw  it  with  ink. 

l^  you  draw  patterns  on  cloth  or  muslin,  do  it  with  a  pen 
dipped  in  a  bit  of  stone  biue,  a  bit  of  sugar,  and  a  little  water, 
tnixed  smooth  in  a  t(;acup,  in  which  it  will  be  always  ready  for 
jse,  if  fresh;  wet  to  a  due  consistence  as  wanted. 


;JOMK    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  171 

681.  To  malce  Transparent  Paper  for  Drawing, — Tracing 
paper  is  readily  made  by  taking  a  sheet  of  very  thin  silk,  or 
other  paper,  and  rubbing  it  over  gently  with  some  soft  sub- 
stance, filled  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  drying  oil,  and 
oil  of  turpentine,  which,  being  suspended  and  dried,  will  be  fit 
for  use  in  a  few  days ;  or  it  may  be  had  at  any  of  .the  shops. 
Lay  this  transparent  material  on  the  print  or  drawing  to  be 
transferred,  and,  with  a  sharp  black  lead  pencil,  trace  the  out- 
lines exactly  as  they  appear  through  the  paper.  If  more  per- 
manent or  stronger  lines  are  wished,  ink  mixed  with  ox-gall 
will  be  necessary  to  make  it  adhere  to  the  oiled  surface. 


682.  Transparent  Paper. — Wet  some  fine  paper  with  a  fea- 
ther on  both  sides  with  a  thin  layer  of  rosin,  dissolved  in  spirits 
of  W'ine.  It  will  then  serve  to  put  over  anything  you  wish  to 
take  off. 


683.  Method  of  using  Tracing  Paper, — Take  a  piece  of  the 
size  required,  and  rub  it  equally  over,  on  one  side,  with  black 
lead,  reduced  to  a  powder,  till  the  surface  will  not  readily  soil 
a  finger;  then  lay  a  piece  of  white  paper  with  the  leaded  side  of 
this  paper  next  to  it,  under  the  print,  and  securing  them  firmly 
together  with  pins  at  the  corners,  proceed  to  take  the  outlines 
with  a  blunt  point,  and  some  degree  of  pressure,  which  will  trans- 
fer the  lead  to  the  clean  paper  precisely  in  the  direction  the  point 
passed  over  the  print ;  this  may  be  corrected  with  the  black  lead 
pencil,  and  cleansed  of  any  soil  by  the  crumbs  of  stale  bread. 


684.  MetJiod  of  setting  Pencil  Drawings. — A  solution  of  alum 
w^ater,  in  which  the  drawing  is  to  be  dipped  (not  washed  on 
with  a  brush,  as  it  would  smear)  will  answer  the  purpose  ex- 
tremely well. 

685.  Wash  for  p>reserving  Drawings  made  with  Blaclc  Lead 
Pencil,  or  with  hard  Black  Chalk. — A  thin  wash  of  isinglass  will 
fix  either  black  lead  or  hard  black  chalk,  &c.,  so  as  to  prevent 
their  rubbing  out;  or  the  same  efiect  may  be  produced  by  the 
simple  application  of  skimmed  milk.  The  best  way  of  using 
the  latter,  is,  to  lay  the  drawing  fiat  upon  the  surface  of  the 
milk,  and  then,  taking  it  up  expeditiously,  to  hang  it  by  the 
one  corner  till  it  drains  and  dries.  The  milk  must  be  perfectly 
free  from  cream,  or  it  will  grease  the  paper. 


1*72  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

686.  To  make  Red  Sealing  Wax. — To  every  ounce  of  shell-lao 
take  half  an  ounce  each  of  resin  and  verniiiion,  all  reduced  to  a 
fine  powder.  Melt  them  over  a  moderate  fire ;  and  when  tho- 
roughly incorporated  and  sufficiently  cool,  form  the  composition 
into  what  are  called  sticks.  On  account  of  the  dearness  of  shell- 
lac,  seed-lac  is  usually  substituted.  A  more  ordinary  sort,  but 
sufficiently  good  for  most  occasions,  may  be  made  by  mixing 
equal  parts  of  resin  and  shell-lac  with  two  parts  of  red  lead  and 
one  of  vermilion.  In  a  still  commoner  sort,  the  vermilion  is 
often  entirely  omitted. 


MARKING  INK. 

687.  Mix  in  six  drachms  of  distilled  water,  tw^o  drachms  of 
sub-nitrate  of  silver,  and  two  drachms  of  gum-arabic.  For  the 
mordant,  mix  with  four  ounces  of  water,  half  an  ounce  of  gum- 
arabic,  and  half  an  ounce  of  sub-carbonate  of  soda.  The  article 
to  be  marked  should  first  be  wetted  with  the  mordant,  and 
pressed  smooth,  and  should  be  thoroughly  dried  before  it  is 
written  upon.  The  mark  should  be  exposed  to  the  light  for 
some  time,  to  become  black. 


688.  Permanent  Red  Inhfor  marking  Linen. — This  useful  pre- 
paration, which  was  contrived  by  Dr.  Smellie,  of  Edinburgh, 
who  was  originally  a  printer  in  that  city,  may  be  used  either 
-with  types,  a  hair  pencil,  or  even  with  a  pen:  Take  half  an 
ounce  of  Vermillion,  and  a  drachm  of  salt  of  steel ;  let  them  be 
finely  levigated  with  linseed  oil,  to  the  thickness  or  limpidity 
required  for  the  occasion.  This  has  not  only  a  very  good  ap- 
pearance, but  will,  it  is  said,  be  found  perfectly  to  resist  the 
effects  of  acids,  as  well  as  of  all  alkaline  leys.  It  may  be  made 
of  other  colors,  by  substituting  the  proper  articles  instead  of 
Vermillion. 


689.  An  Indelible  Ink  for  marking  Linen, — Pour  a  little  aqua- 
fortis into  a  cup,  and  add  to  it  a  small  piece  of  pure  silver; 
when  the  effervescence  ceases,  filter  the  solution  through  a  piece 
of  blotting-paper,  and  put  it  into  a  small  phial ;  then  add  to  it 
a  little  gum-arabic  and  a  little  of  the  paint,  called  sap-green. 
After  the  whole  is  perfectly  combined  it  is  then  fit  for  use. 


HOME   PURSUITS   AND   DOMESTIC   ARTS.  173 

690.  To  take  out  Writing, — When  recently  written,  ink  may- 
be completely  removed  by  the  oxymuriatic  acid  (concentrated 
'and  in  solution).  The  paper  is  to  be  washed  over  repeatedly 
with  the  acid  ;  but  it  will  be  necessary  afterwards  to  wash  it 
also  with  lime-water,  for  the  purpose  of  neutralizing  any  acid 
that  may  be  left  on  the  paper,  and  which  would  considerably 
weaken  it.  But  if  the  ink  have  been  long  written,  it  will  have 
undergone  such  a  change  as  to  prevent  the  preceding  process 
from  taking  effect.  It  ought  therefore  to  be  washed  with  liver 
of  sulphur  (sulphuret  of  ammonia),  before  the  oxymuriatic  acid 
is  applied.     It  may  be  washed  with  a  hair  pencil. 

691.  To  make  Old  Writing  legible, — Take  six  bruised  gall- 
nuts,  and  put  them  to  a  pint  of  strong  white  wine;  let  it  stand 
in  the  sun  for  forty-eight  hours.  Dip  a  brush  in  it  and  wash 
the  writing,  and  by  the  color  you  will  discover  whether  the 
mixture  is  strong  enough  of  the  galls. 


692.  Sympathetic  Ink, — With  a  clean  pen  write  on  paper 
with  a  solution  of  muriate  of  cobalt,  so  diluted  with  water,  that 
the  writing  when  dry  will  be  invisible.  On  gently  warming 
the  paper,  the  writing  will  appear  of  a  blue  or  greenish  color, 
which  will  disappear  again  when  cool.  A  solution  of  muriate 
of  copper  forms  a  yellow  and  sympathetic  ink,  and  acetate  of 
cobalt  a  rose  or  purple.  If  a  landscape  be  drawn  representing 
a  winter  scene,  the  paper  being  overlaid  where  the  foliage 
should  be  with  the  green  sympathetic  ink,  then,  on  gently 
warming  the  drawing,  it  will  represent  summer.  Sky  and 
water  may  be  drawn  with  the  blue,  and  standing  corn  with  the 
yellow  ink. 

693.  Blue  Ink. — Dissolve  a  small  quantity  of  indigo  in  a 
little  oil  of  vitriol,  and  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  in 
which  gum-arabic  has  been  dissolved. 

694.  Yellow  Ink. — Dissolve  gamboge  in  a  solution  of  gum 
arable. 


695.  Scarlet  Ink, — Dissolve  vermilion  in  a  solution  of  gum- 
arabic. 


1*74  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

696.  Red  Ink, — Boil  one  ounce  of  Brazil  wood  in  half-a-pint 
of  water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  add  to  the  decoction  three 
drachms  of  gunri-arabic,  and  an  ounce  of  alum. 


697.   Green  Ink, — Verdigris,  two  ounces ;    cream  of  tartar, 
one  ounce;  water,  half  a  pint;  boil  till  reduced  to  one  half,  and 

filter. 


698.  Excellent  Writing  Ink, — Boil  eight  ounces  of  galls  in 
coarse  powder,  and  four  ounces  of  logwood  in  thin  chips,  in 
twelve  pints  of  rain  water,  for  one  hour :  strain  the  liquor,  and 
add  four  ounces  of  green  copperas,  three  ounces  of  powdered 
gum-arabic,  one  ounce  of  blue  vitriol,  and  one  ounce  of  rock 
candy,  powdered  ;  stir  the  mixture  until  the  whole  be  dissolved, 
then  let  it  subside  twenty -four  hours;  decant  it  very  steadily, 
and  put  it  into  stone  bottles  for  use. 

A  clove  kept  in  it  will  prevent  it  from  becoming  mouldy. 


699.  Black  Ink, — To  make  one  gallon,  take  of  pounded  blue 
nutgalls  one  pound;  copperas,  six  ounces;  gum  common,  four 
ounces ;  soft  water,  one  gallon.  Dissolve  the  gum  separately 
by  the  fire,  and  add,  after  it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Let  the  ink  be  boiled  over  a  slow  fire  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


700.  To  make  Ink, — To  four  ounces  of  bruised  galls,  allow 
%two  of  copperas  and   two  of  gum-arabic ;   put  the  galls  into  a 

large  bottle,  with  three  pints  of  rain  water ;  and,  in  three  or 
four  days,  dissolve  the  gum  in  hot  water,  and  add  it  with  the 
copperas.  Shake  the  bottle  frequently  for  some  days.  A  few 
cloves  may  be  put  into  the  bottle,  to  prevent  the  ink  from 
moulding. 

701.  Ink  Poivder. — Take  five  ounces  of  the  cleanest  nutgalls, 
bruise  them,  and  sift  the  powder  very  fine ;  then  add  one  ounce 
of  white  copperas,  two  ounces  of  Roman  vitriol,  gum-arabic, 
half  an  ounce ;  pound  and  sift  them  very  fine.  An  ounce  of 
this  powder  will  make  a  pint  of  very  black  ink. 

702.  To  prevent  Ink  from  moulding, — Half-a-dozen  cloves, 
bruised  with  gum-arabic,  are  to  be  put  into  the  bottle.  If  a 
very  fine  ink  is  wanted,  white  wine,  or  vinegar  and  water^ 
should  be  used,  instead  of  water  alone. 


HOME    PURSUITS    A.ND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  175 

70?,  To  malce  Indian  Inlc, — Put  six  lighted  wicks  into  a  dish 
of  oil ;  hang  an  iron  or  tin  concave  cover  over  it,  so  as  to  receive 
all  the  smoke ;  when  there  is  a  sufficient  quantity  of  soot  settled 
to  the  cover,  then  take  it  off  gently  with  a  feather  upon  a  sheet 
of  paper,  and  mix  it  up  with  gum-tragacanth  to  a  proper  con 
sistence. 

N.  B.  The  clearest  oil  makes  the  finest  soot,  consequently 
the  best  ink. 


704.  Indian  Ink. — Take  horse-beans,  burn  them  till  they  are 
perfectly  black,  grind  them  to  a  fine  powder,  and,  with  weak 
gum-arabic  water  make  it  into  a  paste,  and  form  it  into  long 
square  cakes. 


705.  To  make  China  /tz^.— Take  dried  black  horse-beans, 
burn  them  to  a  powder,  mix  them  up  with  gum-arabic  water, 
and  bring  them  to  a  mass ;  press  it  well,  and  let  it  dry. 


MANAGEMENT  OF  CANARY-BIRDS. 

706.  Canary-birds,  that  are  kept  tame,  will  breed  three  or 
four  times  in  the  year.  Towards  the  middle  of  March,  begin 
to  match  your  birds,  putting  one  cock  and  hen  into  the  breeding- 
cage,  which  should  be  large,  so  that  the  birds  may  have  room 
to  fly  and  exercise  themselves.  Place  two  boxes  or  little 
basket-nests  in  the  cage,  for  the  hen  to  lay  her  eggs  in,  because 
she  will  sometimes  have  a  second  brood  before  the  first  are 
fit  to  fly,  leaving  the  care  of  them  to  the  father-bird,  who  feeds 
and  brings  them  up  with  much  care,  while  she  is  sitting  on  her 
second  nest  of  eggs.  Whilst  your  birds  are  pairing,  feed  them, 
besides  the  usual  seeds,  with  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
bread  that  has  been  moistened,  or,  if  hard,  grated  fine,  and 
pounded  almond-meat.  When  the  young  birds  are  to  be  fed, 
give  the  same  soft  food,  and  be  sure  have  it  fresh  every  day  ; 
also  furnish  the  old  birds  with  fresh  greens,  such  as  cabbage- 
lettuce,  chickweed,  groundsel,  &c.  Give  fresh  water  every  day, 
and  a  clean  bath  every  morning.  The  hen  lays,  commonly, 
four  or  five  eggs,  and  sits  fourteen  days.  When  the  young  are 
hatched,  leave  them  to  the  care  of  the  old  birds,  to  nurse  and 
bring  up  till  they  can  fly  and  feed  themselves,  which  is,  usually 
in  about  twenty  days. 


I'yG  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

707.  Gold  and  Silver  Fish, — Pure  rain-water  is  best  to  keep 
these  delicate  little  creatures  in  ;  they  should  never  be  put  into 
water  that  has  been  boiled.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  throw  them  in 
the  morning  into  a  large  bowl  of  fresh  water,  with  a  few  bread- 
crumbs in  it,  and  let  them  remain  there  an  hour.  Then  put 
them  in  pure  fresh  water  in  their  vases.  The  water  should  be 
changed  every  day.  If  the  bread  remains  in  the  water  to  be- 
come sour,  it  will  kill  the  fish. 

708.  Improvement  in  the  management  of  Bees, — The  improve- 
ment is  that  of  having  double  skeps  or  hives,  the  one  on  the 
top  of  the  other.  When  the  lower  skep  is  filled  with  honey, 
it  is  to  be  removed  after  the  bees  are  admitted  (through  a  pas- 
sage which  is  made  to  be  opened)  into  the  upper  skep ;  into 
this  skep  food  must  be  put,  and  the  bees  will  remain  there, 
and  go  on  with  their  work  in  it.  When  it  is  filled  with  honey, 
the  former  skep,  with  food  in  it,  may  be  replaced,  and  the  bees 
again  admitted  into  it.  The  full  skep  is  then  to  be  taken  away. 
This  change  of  the  skeps  must  always  be  made  about  mid- 
summer ;  and  by  thus  annually  removing  the  full  one,  more 
honey  will  be  collected  than  is  usual,  and  the  bees  will  not  be 
destroyed. 

709.  To  preserve  Flowers  in  Water, — Mix  a  little  carbonate 
of  soda  with  the  water,  and  it  will  preserve  the  flowers  for  a 

^  fortnight.     Common  saltpetre  is  also  a  good  preservative. 

710.  To  preserve  Flowers  in  Winter, — Take  the  latest  buds 
just  as  they  are  ready  to  open ;  cut  them  oflf,  leaving  the  stem 
about  three  inches  long;  cover  the  end  of  the  stem  with  melted 
sealing-wax,  and  when  the  buds  are  a  little  withered,  wrap  then\ 
separately  in  paper,  and  place  them  in  a  dry  box.  When  you 
wish  to  have  the  buds  blossom,  cut  off  the  sealed  end,  and  put 
them  into  water  in  which  a  little  saltpetre  has  been  dissolved. 
In  twelve  hours  the  buds  will  be  open. 

711.  To  take  Impressions  of  Leaves. — Dissolve  in  a  saucerful 
of  water  abojt  a  tea-spoonful  of  bichromate  of  potash.  Pass 
the  paper  to  be  used  through  this  solution,  and,  while  wet, 
press  the  leaves  lightly  upon  it,  and  expose  it  to  the  sun  when 
it  is  shining  brightly.  When  perfectly  dry,  remove  the  leaves, 
and  a  facsimile  will  be  left  in  a  light  lemon  shade,  while  the 
rest  of  the  paper  will  be  of  a  daj'k  brown. 


9 

HOME   PURSUITS   AND    DOMESTIC  ARTS.  177 

712.  To  preserve  the  natural  color  in  Petals  of  dried  Flowers. — 
Immerse  the  petals  for  some  minutes  in  alcohol.  The  '^.olors 
will  fade  at  first,  but  in  a  short  time  they  will  resume,  perma- 
nently, their  natural  tint. 

713.  To  revive  faded  Flowers. — Nearly  all  flowers  may  be 
revived,  when  faded,  by  placing  one-third  of  the  stalks  in  hot 
water ;  when  it  has  become  cold,  the  flowers  wnll  be  re-set  and 
fresh ;  the  end  of  the  stalks  should  then  be  cut  off,  and  the  flow- 
ers put  into  cold  water. 

Or,  dip  flowers  in  spirits  of  wine  for  twenty  minutes;  at  first 
they  will  appear  to  have  entirely  faded ;  but  in  drying,  the 
colors  will  revive,  and  the  fragrance  be  prolonged. 

A  few  grains  of  salt  put  into  the  water  with  flowers,  will 
keep  them  from  fading. 

Sand  may  be  substituted  for  water. 

Flow^ers  may  be  preserved  throughout  the  winter,  if  plucked 
when  they  are  half-blown,  dipped,  stalks  downward,  in  equal 
quantities  of  water  and  verjuice  mixed,  and  sprinkled  with  bay 
salt.  They  should  be  kept  in  an  eiirthenware  vessel,  closely 
covered,  and  in  a  warm  place;  when,  in  mid-winter,  if  the 
flowers  -oe  taken  out,  washed  in  cold  water,  and  held  before  a 
gentle  fire,  they  wull  open  as  if  in  their  first  bloom, 

714.  To  paint  Cloth.,  Cambric^  Sarcenet^  &c^  so  as  to  render 
them  Transparent. — Grind  to  a  fine  powder  three  pounds  of 
clear  white  resin,  and  put  it  into  two  pounds  of  good  nut-oil, 
to  which  a  strong  drying  quality  has  been  given  :  set  the  mix- 
ture over  a  moderate  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  all  the  resin 
is  dissolved  ;  then  put  in  two  pounds  of  the  best  Venice  turpen- 
tine, and  keep  stirring  the  whole  well  together ;  and  if  the  cloth' 
or  cambric  be  thoroughly  varnished  on  both  sides  with  this 
miixture,  it  will  be  quite  transparent.  In  this  operation,  the  sur- 
face upon  which  the  varnish  is  to  be  applied,  must  be  stretched 
tight  and  made  fast  during  the  application.  This  mode  of  ren- 
dliring  cloth,  &c.  transparent,  is  excellently  adapted  for  window- 
blinds.  The  varnish  will  likewise  admit  of  any  design  in  oil- 
colors  being  executed  upon  it  as  a  transparency. 


715.    Varnish  to  prevent  the  rays  of  the  Sun  from  pfassin^ 
through   the  gla.sses  of   Windows. — Pulverize  gum-tragacunth, 
und  put  it  to  dissolve  for  twenty-fuur  hours  in  whites  of  eggs, 
12 


178  M^s.  hale's  receipts  for  thb  million, 

well  beaten.     Lay  a  coat  of  this  on  the  panes  of  your  windows, 
with  a  soft  brush,  and  let  it  dry. 


716.  To  stain  paper  or  parchment  Yellow, — Paper  may  be 
stained  of  a  beautiful  yellow,  by  the  tincture  of  turmeric,  formed 
by  infusing  an  ounce  or  more  of  the  root,  powdered,  in  a  pint 
of  spirit  of  wine.  This,  by  the  addition  of  water,  may  be  made 
to  give  any  tint  of  yellow,  from  the  lightest  straw  to  the  full 
color  called  French  yellow,  and  will  be  equal  in  brightness 
even  to  the  best  dyed  silks.  If  yellow  is  wanted  of  a  warmer 
or  redder  cast,  anotta,  or  dragon's  blood,  must  be  added  to  the 
tincture. 


717.  To  stain  paper  or  parchment  Crimson. — A  very  fine 
crimson  stain  may  be  given  to  paper,  by  a  tincture  of  the 
Indian  lake,  which  may  be  made  by  infusing  the  lake  some 
days  in  spirit  of  wine,  and  then  pouring  off  the  tincture  from 
the  dregs. 


718.  To  stain  paper  or  parchment  Green. — Paper  or  parch- 
ment may  be  stained  green  by  the  solution  of  verdigris  in 
vinegar,  or  by  the  crystals  of  verdigris  dissolved  in  water  ; 
also  by  the  solution  of  copper  in  aquafortis,  made  by  adding 
filings  of  copper,  gradually,  to  the  aquafortis,  till  no  ebullition 
ensues ;  or,  the  spirit  of  salt  may  be  substituted  for  the  aqua- 
'fortis. 


HOUSE-PLANTS. 

719.  Plants  require  much  light  and  fresh  air  ;  a  light  garret 
is  an  excellent  place  for  them ;  even  those  which  will  not  bear 
the  outer  air,  must  have  the  air  of  the  room  frequently  fresh- 
ened by  ventilation,  to  preserve  them  in  health.  They  should 
not  stand  in  a  draught  of  air.  In  frosty  weather  the  windows 
should  be  kept  close,  and  at  night,  the  shutters.  In  sharp  frost, 
instead  of  stirring  out  the  fire,  leave  a  little  on  retiring  to  rest, 
with  a  guard  before  it  for  security. 

As  a  general  rule,  never  water  plants  while  the  sun  shines. 
The  time  should  be  in  the  evening,  or  early  in  the  morning,  un- 
less it  be  confined  to  watering  the  roots,  in  which  case  trans- 
planted plants,  and  others  in  a  growing  state,  may  be  watered 
at  any  time ;  and,  if  they  are  shaded  from  the  sun,  they  may 
also  be  watered  over  the  tops. 


HOME   PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS  179 

The  water,  if  taken  from  a  well  or  cold  spring,,  should  be  ex- 
posed one  day  to  the  sun,  otherwise  it  will  chill  the  plants.  A 
small  quantity  only  should  be  applied  at  a  time,  that  it  may 
have  the  effect  of  refreshing  rain. 

Eain  water  is  the  best  for  plants ;  next  river  water ;  hard 
spring  water  is  the  w^orst. 


720.  To  air  Plants,  and  ventilate  Rooms  wherein  they  are  con- 
tained,— Plants  should  have  air,  every  day  in  the  year,  to  niako 
them  grow  well ;  but  this  matter,  in  sitting-rooms,  will  not  of 
course  be  regulated  for  their  sakes,  especially  in  the  colder  sea- 
sons. Wherever  placed,  however,  some  attention  should  be 
paid  to  airing  and  ventilating  the  rooms  regularly,  by  opening 
the  windows,  and  occasionally  the  doors,  in  order  to  excite  a 
free  circulation  of  air.  This  should  be  done  to  a  certain  extent 
every  day,  according  to  the  state  of  the  weather,  except  in  the 
time  of  severe  frost,  when  it  would  not  be  advisable  to  admit 
external  air.  But  at  such  times,  if  bad  weather  be  of  long 
continuance,  the  rooms  may  be  ventilated  by  means  of  the 
doors,  and  by  exciting  a  current  of  air  in  the  passages,  or  other 
parts  of  the  house. 

In  very  severe  frost,  or  in  a  continuation  of  damp  weather, 
moderate  fires  should  be  made  for  the  sake  of  the  plants,  if 
placed  in  rooms  not  occupied.  The  window  shutters  should 
also  be  closed  at  night. 


"121.  Hints  to  Lovers  of  Flowers, — A  most  beautiful  and 
easily-attained  show  of  evergreens  may  be  had  by  a  very  sim- 
ple-plan,  which  has  been  found  to  answer  remarkably  well  on 
a  small  scale.  If  geranium  branches  taken  from  luxuriant  and 
healthy  trees,  just  before  the  winter  sets  in,  be  cut  as  for  slips, 
and  immersed  in  soap-water,  they  will,  after  drooping  for  a  few 
days,  shed  their  leaves,  put  forth  fresh  ones,  and  continue  in  the 
finest  vigor  all  the  winter.  By  placing  a  number  of  bottles 
thus  filled  in  a  fiower-basket,  with  moss  to  conceal  the  bottles, 
a  show  of  evergreens  is  easily  insured  for  the  whole  season. 
They  require  no  fresh  water. 

7?.2.  Bulbous  Roots. — The  time  to  put  bulbous  roots,  as  the 
hyacinth,  narcissus,  and  jonquil,  into  glasses  filled  with  water, 
is  from  September  to  November,  and  the  earliest  will  begin 
Woorning  about  Christmas,    The  glasses  should  be  blue,  as  that 


180  MRS.  halk's  receipts  for  the  million. 

• 

color  best  suits  the  roots;  put  in  water  enough  to  cover  the 
bulb  one  third;  let  the  water  be  sut't,  change  it  once  a  week, 
and  put  hi  a  pinch  of  jsalt  at  each  change.  Keep  ihu  glasses  in 
a  moderately  warm  place,  and  near  to  the  light. 

They  should  have  fresh  water  about  once  in  ten  days.  The 
leaves  should  not  be, plucked  off  befoie  they  decay,  or  the  root 
will  be  deprived  of  much  of  its  natural  nourishment.  When 
they  have  decayed,  the  bulbs  should  Ijc  taken  up,  laid  in  the 
shade  to  dry,  cleaned,  and  kept  in  sand  in  a  dry  place  till  wanted 
to  replant.  The  offsets  should  be  taken  off,  and  planted  accord- 
ing to  size. 

723.  Geraniums. — The  shrubby  kinds  are  commonly  in- 
creased by  cuttings,  which,  if  planted  in  June  or  July,  and 
placed  in  the  shade,  will  take  root  in  five  weeks.  They  are  the 
most  tender,  and  when  placed  out  of  doors,  should  be  defended 
from  strong  winds,  and  be  so  placed  as  to  enjoy  the  sun  till  ' 
eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning.  As  the  shrubby  kinds  grow 
fast,  so  as  to  fill  the  pots  with  their  roots,  and  push  them 
through  the  opening  at  the  bottom,  they  should  be  moved  ^\^iYY 
two  or  three  wee.ks  in  summer,  and  the  fresh  roots  cut  off. 
They  should  also  be  newly  potted  twice  in  the  sumiher:  once 
about  a  month  after  they  are  placed  abroad,  and  again  towards 
the  end  of  August.  When  this  is  done,  all  the  roots  outside 
the  earth  should  be  pared  off,  and  as  niuch  of  the  old  earth  re- 
^moved  as  can  be  done  without  injuring  the  plants.  They 
should  then  be  planted  in  a  larger  pot ;  some  tresh  earth  should 
first  be  laid  at  the  bottom,  and  on  that  the  plant  should  be 
placed,  so  that  the  old  earth  adhering  to  it  may  be  al)out  an 
inch  below  the  rim  of  the  pot ;  it  should  next  be  filled  up,  and 
the  pot  slightly  shaken  :  the  earth  mu8t  then  be  gently  pressed 
down  at  the  top,  leaving  a  little  space  for  water  to  be  given 
"without  running  over  the  rim;  finally,  the  plant  should  be  libe- 
rally watered,  and  the  stem  fastened  to  a  stake,  to  prevent  the 
wind  displacing  the  roots  before  they  are  newly  fixed. 

As  the  branches  grow,  and  new  leaves  are  formed  at  the  top 
of  them,  the  lower  ones  may  die,  and  should  be  plucked  ofi* 
every  week. 

Geranium  slips  should  be  planted  in  May,  June,  or  July, 
taking  only  the  last  year's  shoots,  from  which  the  leaves  must 
be  stripped.  When  planted,  give  them  water,  and  place  theni 
in  the  shade :  when  they  have  taken  root,  let  them  have  tho 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  181 

Bun  in  the  mornirig.  The  slips  chosen  for  cutting  should  not 
be  such  as  bear  flowers  ;  and  they  should  be  inserted  about 
half  their  length  in  the  earth. 

Geraniums,  except  the  shrubby  kinds,  require  shelter  from 
frost  only,  and  should  have  free  air  admitted  to  them,  when 
the  weather  is  not  very  severe.  In  sultry  weather,  they  should 
all  be  watered  liberally  Qvery  morning,  except  some  few  of  a 
succulent  nature,  which  must  be  Watejed  sparingly;  the  latter 
may  be  known  by  plucking  a  leaf  from  them.  Geraniums 
may  be  watered  three  times  a  week,  when  not  frosty,  in 
winter. 


724.  Artificial  Mould  for  Plants^ — Russian  potash,  one 
drachm  ;  w  ater,  four  ounces  ;  one  tea-spoonful  of  oil.  Mix  the 
whole  well  together.  Seeds  put  in  this  mixture  will  grow  for 
a  time  at  least,  as  well  as  if  planted  in  common  soil. 

725.  To  take  Impressions  of  Plants,^ — Take  half  a  sheet  of 
fine  paper,  and  cover  the  surface  with  sweet  oil ;  let  it  stand  a 
minute  or  two,  then  rub  off  the  superficial  oil,  and  hang  the 
paper  in  the  air;  when  almost  dry,  move  the  paper  slowly 
over  the  flame  of  a  candle  or  lamp,  till  it  is  perfectly  black ; 
lay  on  it  the  plant  or  leaf,  place  a  piece  of  clean  paper  over, 
and  rub  it  equally  with  the  fingers  for  half  a  minute.  Then 
place  the  plant  on  the  paper  or  scrap-book  where  it  is  desired 
to  have  the  impression,  cover  it  with  blotting  paper,  »nd,  on 
repeating  the  rubbing,  a  representation  of  the  plant  will  appear 
equal  to  the  finest  engraving.  The  same  piece  of  black  paper 
will  serve  for  a  number  of  impressions. 

726.  Another  Process. — Burn  a  common  cork  till  reduced  to 
powder;  mix  with  it  a  tea-spoonful  of  olive  oil,  making  a  thick 
paste.  Paint  the  veiny  side  of  the  leaf  with  a  camel-hair 
brush,  and  lay  it,  with  the  'painted  side  down,  on  a  piece  of 
clean  paper.  Submit  it  to  a  strong  and  even  pressure  (it  is 
best  placed  in  a  book  and  put  under  a  weight,)  for  about  fifteen 
minutes;  remove  the  leaf  carefully,  and  there  will  be  an  exact 
representation  left.  Very  veiny  leaves  are  best.  These  impres- 
sions are  almost  equal  to  engravings.  Collections  of  thcui 
might  be  made  interesting,  by  having  narratives  of  rambles 
written  under  them,  stating  the  features  of  the  spot  from  which 
the  leaves  were  gathered. 


182  MRS.    II ale's    EECEinS    FOR    THE    MILLION*. 


DIRKCTIOlsS    FOR    WINDOW-PLANTS. 

727.  Through  January  and  February. — The  summer  flower- 
ing-plants— such  as  geraniums,  fuchsias,  <Sz;c. — should  be  kept 
as  nearly  dormant  as  possible,  allowing  just  enough  water  to 
prevent  flagging,  and  ail  the  light  that  can  be  spared  from  the 
more  interesting  division  of  winter-bloomers  ;  of  the  latter  class, 
such  things  as  china-roses,  cinerarias,  hyacinths  and  other  bulbs, 
will  now  be  in  an  active  state,  some  of  them  flowering,  and 
others  about  to  do  so ;  these  musjt  be  liberally  treated  with 
water.  Mignonnette,  however,  must  be  excepted.  Above  every- 
thing, keep  the  leaves  clean  ;  they  are  few  in  number,  and  feeble 
in  action,  but  they  have  yet  an  important  function  to  perform ; 
and,  without  they  are  kept  as  health}  as  possible,  the  plant 
cannot  begin  a  new  growth  with  the  \igor  it  is  desirable  it 
should  possess.  The  pots  should  be  occasionally  scrubbed  with 
clean  water,  but  do  not  paint  or  otherwise  fill  up  their  pores, 
for  air  is  as  essential  to  the  roots  as  to  the  foliage,  and  no 
inconsiderable  quantity  finds  its  way  to  them  through  the  sides 
of  a  clean  pot.  With  the  same  view%  the  surface  of  the  soil 
should  be  frequently  stirred ;  the  process  keeps  it  open,  pre- 
vents the  growth  of  moss  and  weeds,  and  imparts  a  better  ap- 
pearance. The  water  given  should  always  be  rather  w^armer 
than  the  atmosphere  of  the  room ;  and  rain-water,  slightly  heat- 
ed, is  the  best. 


-  728.  March, — The  whole  of  these  plants  will  be  benefited  by 
re-potting.  Geraniums  and  fuchsias  delight  in  light  rich  earth ; 
calceolarias  (lady's  slipper),  roses,  the  chimney  campanula,  and 
others  which  grow  as  freely,  should  have  a  larger  proportion  of 
loam  ;  whatever  manure  is  added  for  either,  must  be  thoroughly 
decayed.  The  pots  shoidd  be  perfectly  clean,  inside  and  out; 
take  care  to  have  each  properly  drained  with  pieces  of  slate  or 
potsherds,  in  size  and  number  proportionate  to  the  pot ;  the 
larger  ones  require  from  one  to  three  inches  of  this  drainage. 
In  removing  the  plants,  take  off  the  matted  fibres  with  a  knife ; 
loosen  the  soil  moderately,  and,  when  in  its  place,  press  the  new 
€ai;th  tightly  round  it;  give  a  gentle  watering,  and  keep  them 
rather  warm  for  a  few  days ;  afterwards  they  should  have  plenty 
of  air  on  fine  days,  and  water  as  they  become  dry.  Station 
each  where  it  may  receive  the  direct  light,  and  pay  particular 
attention  to  keeping  the  leaves  clean. 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  183 

729.  April, — On  the  attention  given  through  this  month, 
most  of  the  success  for  the  season  will  depend.  The  plants  are 
now,  or  ought  to  be,  in  a  very  active  growth,  which  must  be 
encouraged  by  moderate  and  regular  supplies  of  water  and  air. 
Pinch  out  the  points  of  the  growing  shoots  of  such  plants  as 
are  required  to  b^lome  bushy  ;  this  is  commonly  called  "stop- 
ping," and,  with  such  things  as  geraniums,  fuchsias,  myrtles, 
and  others  of  similar  habit,  is  very  necessary.  Cactuses  must 
have  a  sunny  position,  and  plenty  of  water.  Mignonette  in 
jjots  and  boxes,  will  require  thinning,  so  as  to  leave  the  plants 
about  three  inches  apart.  I'he  several  kinds  of  China  roses 
form  beautiful  window  ornaments,  and  occasion  but  little  trou- 
ble :  at  this  time  they  are  coming  rapidly  into  bloom.  Look 
for  and  destroy  insects  of  all  sorts,  every  few  days;  they  mul- 
tiply so  fast,  that  without  constant  attention,  the  plants  are 
soon  overrun.  The  leaves  must  be  kept  clear  of  dust,  and  the 
branches  properly  tied  out  to  sticks,  that  the  centre  may  receive 
its  due  share  of  light. 


730.  May, — As  the  influence  of  the  advancing  season  and 
power  of  the  sun  begins  to  be  felt,  the  management  of  window- 
plants  becomes  easier,  and  must  be  gradually  changed  from 
the  careful  nursing  hitherto  necessary,  to  a  course  of  almost 
constant  exposure  that  will  render  the  plants  robust  and  hardy. 


731.  June, — From  this  time  till  the  middle  of  September, 
plants  in  pots  may  be  placed  out  of  doors;  they  are,  in  fact, 
better  in  the  open  air,  than  in  the  heated  atmosphere  of  a  room. 
Except  in  stormy  seasons,  they  may  stand  out  night  and  day, 
in  some  slightly-sheltered  spot.  As  a  precaution  against  the 
effects  of  strong  sun-light,  it  is  advisable  to  place  the  pots  in 
which  the  plants  grow,  into  others  a  size  or  two  larger,  and  fill 
the  space  between  them  with  moss ;  for  many  plants,  having 
slender  fibrous  roots,  are  easily  injured  by  the  heat  of  the  sun 
scorching  them  through  the  pot.  Such  as  stand  upon  the  ground, 
should  have  a  thick  layer  of  ashes  spread  for  them,  to  prevent 
worms  from  creeping  in.  Wash  their  leaves  frequently  with 
clean  water,  and  remove  insects.  When  any  portion  of  the 
eoUection  is  kept  in-doors,  a  window  facing  the  north  or  west 
is  to  be  preferred,  and  plenty  of  air  must  be  admitted.  As 
soon  as  geraniums  have  done  flowering,  they  should  be  cut 
down,  rc-pottcd,  and  the  toj^s  struck,   to  foim  plants  for  next 


134  MliS.    lIALE'tt    KE0E11"1"S    FOK    Tllli    AIILMON. 

year.  This  is  a  good  time  to  propagate  nearly  all  kinds  of 
pot-plants;  most  of  them  strike  with  fr(;edom  on  a  warm  border 
in  sandy  soil,  covered  with  a  glass,  and  k(;pt  moderately  water- 
ed. Myrtles,  and  some  other  hard-wooded  plants,  may  be 
struck  by  placing  the  cuttings,  for  about  half  their  length,  into 
tt  phial  filled  with  water.  Seeds  must  be  j^wn  in  light  earth, 
as  soon  as  they  are  thoroughly  ripe. 

732.  July, — Fuchsias,  in  a  growing  state,  should  receive  a 
final  potting:  place  theiri  in  large,  perfecti}'  clean  pots,  using 
a  mixture  of  turfy  loam  and  pciat,  or  leaf  mould  ;  train  the 
shoots,  and  water  liberally.  Geraniums  that  have  done  flower- 
ing, should  also  be  re-potted  ;  they  require  a  lighter  soil,  such 
as  one  part  turfy  loam,  two  parts  leaf  mould,  and  the  remainder 
Band:  cut  down  the  tops  to  witiiin  two  or  three  joints  of  their 
base,  and  set  the  plants  in  a  warm  sheltered  y^lace,  to  induce 
tliem  to  grow  again :  the  cuttings  may  be  struck  in  a  frame  or 
hand-gla^s,  and  will  f(;rm  n-ice  pl/mts  [)y  n(ixt  season.  Cactuses 
should  be  kept  in  a  sunny  situation,  and  have  plenty  of  water. 
Cauieliias  which  have  made  their  season's  growth,  may  be  set 
out  of  doors,  to  ripen.  China  roses  niay  be  re-potted,  if  requi- 
site, and  are  easily  propagated  now,  in  the  same  manner  as 
gcjaniuins.  Separate  and  p(jt  violets,  for  early  spring-flowering ; 
kee[)  them  and  similar  plants,  as  the  cyclairjen,  &c.,  in  the  most 
shaded  place  out  of  doors.  The  whole  tribe  of  lilies  are  hand- 
sonie  window-plants,  and  some  of  the  dwarf  Japan  kinds  pecu- 
^Jjarly  adapted  for  the  purpose;  they  are  just  beginning  to 
bloom,  and  should  have  plenty  of  air  and  water.  The  Chinese 
primrose  may  be  S(jwn  in  pots  of  light  rich  earth,  and,  if  cover- 
ed with  a  piece  of  glass,  will  vegetate  quickly,  and  f  jrm  nice 
plants  by  the  autumn.  Propagation  of  such  plants  as  myrtles, 
sweet-scented  vei'ljcna,  or  lemon  plant,  chimney  campanulas, 
&:c.,  is  now  easy,  and  should  be  attended  to  without  loss  of 
time.  Water  all  the  plants  with  regularity,  and  in  quantities 
Droportionate  to  their  size  and  the  state  of  the  weather;  but 
particularly  keep  the  leaves  clean,  by  frequent  sprinklings  of 
cii.'an  water  and  sponging.  The  essential  points  in  the  culture 
of  every  plant,  is  to  allow  the  functions  of  both  roots  and  leaves 
to  be  cairicd  on  in  a  proper  manner — the  first,  by  placing  them 
in  suitable  soil,  and  the  latter,  by  clcaiiiig  theiu  of  all  im* 
piiritics. 


HOME   PURSUITS   AND    DOMESTIC   ARTS.  185 

733.  August — Needs  only  a  continuance  of  the  attention 
recommended  last  month.  Let  them  have  plenty  of  air,  light, 
and  water,  with  a  slight  protection  from  the  mid-day  sun ;  pro- 
pagation may  still  be  carried  on  successfully.  Pot  the  belJa- 
rJonna  and  Guernsey  lilies,  to  flower  in  autumn  ;  and  the  young 
plants  of  the  Chinese  primrose  should  be  placed  three  or  four 
together,  in  pots  of  light  rich  earth,  and  nursed,  to  forward  their 
growth  as  far  as  possible. 

734.  Septemher, — The  geraniums  cut  down  in  July,  will  now 
be  pushing  forth  a  number  of  young  shoots  ;  these  must  be  en- 
couraged as  much  as  possible,  by  keeping  the  plants  in  a  shel- 
tered place,  and  duly  supplying  them  with  moisture.  When 
the  shoots  have  grown  two  or  three  joints,  they  should  be  stop- 
ped by  picking  out  the  points,  in  order  to  render  them  bushy. 
The  cuttings  made  at  the  same  period  will  now  be  fit  for  potting ; 
put  each  one  separately  into  a  small  pot,  and  treat  them  as  the 
older  plants.  Young  plants  of  myrtles,  and  indeed  all  others  that 
are  properly  rooted,  should  receive  similar  treatment.  Cinera- 
rias are  among  the  most  useful  of  spring-flowering  plants,  and 
if  a  few  seedlings  can  be  obtained  now,  they  will  make  nice 
plants,  with  the  treatment  recommended  fjr  geraniums.  Cycla- 
men, Guernsey,  or  Bella-donna  lilies,  and  Lachenalias  should  be 
repotted  ;  the  first  and  last  are  very  handsome  spring-flowering 
plants,  and  the  lilies  are  exceedingly  beautiful  through  October 
and  November;  all  of  them  are  of  reasonable  price,  and  well 
worth  adding  to  the  usual  stock  of  window  plants.  Fill  a  few 
pots  with  fibrous  loam,  and  sprinkle  them  over  with  mignonette, 
nemophiila  insignis,  and  intermediate  stocks;  leave  the  pots  in 
the  open  air,  and  thin  the  plants  to  about  three  or  four  of  the 
strongest,  as  soon  as  they  can  be  handled.  Pot  oflT  china  prim- 
roses, putting  one  plant  into  each  three-inch  pot.  Encourage 
the  chrysanthemums  in  pots  with  alternate  applications  of  ma- 
nure water,  repot  the  strongest,  and  allow  them  all  plenty  of 
room,  or  the  leaves  are  liable  to  injury.  Set  all  plants  as  they 
grow  out  of  flower  in  the  sun,  to  ripen  their  wood,  but  do  not 
let  them  suflur  from  drought. 


735.  October, — The  principal  endeavor  among  this  class  of 
plants  must  now  be  directed  towards  getting  them  into  a  state 
of  rest ;  water  very  cautiously,  giving  air  whenever  the  weather 
will  permit,  and  at  all  times  let  them  enjoy  whatever  sunshino 


183  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

occurs,  and  uninterrupted  light.  Now  that  the  respiring  powef 
of  the  leaves  becoriies  lessened,  it  is  most  essential  that  every 
particle  of  dust  be  carefully  removed;  the  surface  of  the  soil  in 
which  they  grow  should  be  occasionally  stirred,  to  keep  it  clean 
and  porous,  and  even  the  outside  of  the  pots  should  be  washed, 
for  the  same  end.  If  it  be  necessary  to  stand  the  pots  in  sau- 
cers, when  the  plants  are  watered,  the  waste  which  runs  through 
should  be  regularly  emptied  away,  as  much  mischief  ensues 
from  allowing  the  roots  to  remain  in  the  water. 

736.  Novemher, — The  directions  given  last  month  must  be 
closely  observed  throughout  the  remainder  of  the  year.  The 
great  object  being  to  keep  the  majority  of  the  plants  in  a  rest- 
ing condition,  that  they  may  start  the  more  vigorously  on  the 
return  of  genial  weather.  Winter,  or  early  spring-flowering 
plants,  such  as  violets,  China  primroses,  cyclamen,  and  roses, 
are,  however,  to  be  excepted  from  this  rule  ;  they  are  now  in 
an  active  state,  and  must  be  encouraged  accordingly.  As  soon 
as  hyacinths  and  other  bulbs,  placed  in  pots  last  month,  have 
become  pretty  well  rooted,  they  may  be  brought  into  the  win- 
dow, and  being  placed  near  the  light,  will  grow  rapidly  ;  those 
in  glasses  should  have  the  wateF  changed  once  or  twice  a  week. 
Chrysanthemums  in  pots  require  plenty  of  water  while  in 
bloom,  and  when  their  beauty  declines,  the  plants  should  be 
taken  to  a  warm  part  of  the  garden,  or  placed  in  a  light  shed, 

to  complete  their  maturity. 
\  ' 

737.  December, — If  the  geraniums  or  other  plants  taken  from 
the  borders  in  autumn,  exhibit  signs  of  rottenness,  remove  the 
decaying  parts,  and  dust  the  wounds  with  quick-lime  or  sul- 
phur, keep  them  comparatively  dry  and  as  much  exposed  to 
the  sun  as  possible;  air  is  essential  w^henever  it  can  be  admit- 
ted. Remember  previous  directions  regarding  the  employ- 
ment of  pans ;  they  are  a  most  fatal  source  of  disease  and  death 
"when  left  with  water  in  them.  Water  sparingly,  keep  the 
leaves  clean,  and  wait  patiently.  Flowering  plants  must  still 
form  the  exception,  as  mentioned  last  month. 


738.  To  manage  ft  Watch, — J'irst :  Wind  your  watch  as 
nearly  as  possible  at  the  same  hour  every  day.  Secondly :  Be 
careful  that  your  key  is  in  good  condition,  as  there  is  much 
danger  of  injuring  the  machine  when  the  key  is  worn  or  cracked ; 


HOME    PURSUITS    AND    DOMESTIC    ARTS.  187 

there  are  more  mainsprings  and  chains  broken  through  a  jerk 
in  winding,  than  from  any  other  cause,  which  injury  will, 
sooner  or  later,  be  the  result,  if  the  key  be  in  bad  order. 
Thirdly :  As  all  metals  contract  by  cold,  and  expand  by  heat, 
it  must  be  manifest,  that  to  keep  the  watch  as  nearly  as  possi- 
ble at  one  temperature,  is  a  necessary  piece  of  attention. 
Fourthly :  Keep  the  watch  as  constantly  as  possible  in  one  po- 
sition— that  is,  if  it  hangs  by  day,  let  it  hang  by  night  against 
something  sofc.  Fifthly  :  the  hands  of  a  pocket-chronometer 
or  duplex  watch,  should  never  be  set  backwards ;  in  other 
watches  this  is  a  matter  of  no  consequence.  Sixthly :  The  glass 
should  never  be  opened  in  watches  that  set  and  regulate  at  the 
back.  One  or  two  other  directions  more,  it  is  of  vital  import- 
ance that  you  bear  in  mind.  On  regulating  a  watch,  should  it 
be  flist,  move  the  regulator  a  trifle  towards  the  slow,  and  if 
going  slow,  do  the  reverse ;  you  cannot  move  the  regulator  too 
slightly  or  too  gently  at  a  time,  and  the  only  inconvenience  that 
can  arise  is,  that  you  nuiy  have  to  perform  the  duty  more  than 
once.  On  the  contrary,  if  you  move  the  regulator  too  much  at 
a  time  you  will  be  as  far,  if  not  farther  than  ever,  from  attain- 
ing your  object;  so  that  you  may  repeat  the  movement  until 
quite  tired  and  disappointed — stoutly  blaming  both  watch  and 
watch-maker,  while  the  fault  is  entirely  your  own.  Again,  you 
cannot  be  too  careful  in  respect  of  the  nature  and  condition  of 
your  watch-pocket;  see  that  it  be  made  of  some  material  that 
is  soft  and  pliant — such  as  wash-leather,  which  is  the  best;  and, 
also,  that  there  be  no  flue  or  nap  that  may  be  torn  off  when 
taking  the  watch  out  of  the  pocket.  Cleanliness,  too,  is  as 
needful  here  as  in  the  key  before  winding ;  for  if  there  be  dust 
or  dirt  in  either  instance,  it  will,  you  njay  rely  upon  it,  work 
its  way  into  the  watch,  as  well  as  weai'  away  the  engine  turning 
of  the  case. 


PAKT  IV. 

DOMESTIC  ECONOMY,  AND  OTHER  MATTERS  WORTH 
KNOWING. 

Of  tlie  different  kinds  of  Tea^   Coffee,  d'c. — Preserving  Fruits^ 
Flowers^  c&c. —  Care  of  Fires — and  other  Mints, 

TEAS. 

739. — The  names  of  the  different  kinds  of  tea,  relate  to  the 
time  of  their  being  gathered,  or  to  some  peculiarity  in  their 
manufacture.  It  is  a  general  rule,  that  all  tea  is  fine  in  pro- 
portion to  the  tendeirness  and  immaturity  of  the  leaves.  The 
quality  and  value  of  the  different  kinds  diminish  as  they  are 
gathered  later  in  the  season. 

Black  Teas. — As  soon  as  the  leaf-bud  begins  to  expand, 
It* is  gathered  to  make  Fekoe.  A  few  days*  later  growth  pro- 
duces black-leaved  Pekoe.  The  next  picking  is  called  Souchong  ; 
as  the  leaves  grow  larger  and  more  mature,  they  form  Congou  ; 
and  the  last  picking  is  Bohea, 

Boh^a  is  called  by  the  Chinese,  Ta-cha  (large  tea),  on  account 
of  the  maturity  and  size  of  the  leaves;  it  contains  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  woody  fibre  than  other  teas,  and  its  infusion  is  of  a 
darker  color  and  coarser  flavor. 

Congou^  the  next  higher  kind,  is  named  from  a  corruption 
of  the  Chinese  Koongfoa  (great  care,  or  assiduity).  This  forms 
the  bulk  of  the  black  tea  imported,  and  is  mostly  valued  for 
its  strength. 

Souchong — Seaou-choong  (small,  scarce  sort),  is  the  finest  of 
the  stronger  black  tea,  with  a  leaf  that  is  generally  entire  and 
curly.      It  is  much  esteemed  for  its  fragrance  and  fine  flavor. 

Pekoe  is  a  corruption  of  the  Canton  name,  Pak-ho  (white 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC,  189 

down),. being  the  first  sprouts  of  the  leaf-buds;  they  are  covered 
with  a  white  silky  down.  It  is  a  delicate  tea,  rather  deficient 
in  strength,  and  is  principally  used  for  flavoring  other  teas. 

740.  Green  Teas. — The  following  are  the  principal  kinds: 
Twankay^  Hyson- Skin^  Hyson,  Gunpowder,  and  Young  Hyson, 

Young  Hyson  is  a  delicate  young  leaf,  called  in  the  original 
language,  Yu-tsien  (before  the  rains),  because  gathered  in  the 
early  spring. 

Hyson,  from  the  Chinese  word  He-tchune,  which  means, 
flourishing  spring.  This  fine  tea  is  gathered  early  in  the  season, 
and  prepared  with  great  care  and  labor.  Each  leaf  is  picked 
separately,  and  nipped  off  above  the  footstalk,  and  every  sepa- 
rate leaf  is  rolled  in  the  hand.  It  is  much  esteemed  for  its 
flavor. 

Gunpowder  Tea  is  only  Hyson  rolled  and  rounded,  to  give  it 
the  granular  appearance  whence  it  derives  its  name.  The  Chi- 
nese call  it  Choo-cha  (pearl  tea). 

Hyson-Skin  is  so  named  from  the  Chinese  term,  in  which 
connection  skin  means  the  refuse,  or  inferior  portion.  In  pre- 
paring Hyson,  all  leaves  that  are  of  a  coarse  yellow,  or  imper- 
fectly twisted  appearance,  are  separated,  and  sold  as  skin-tea^ 
at  an  inferior  price. 

Twankay  is  the  last  picking  of  green  tea,  and  the  leaf  is  not 
rolled  or  twisted  as  much  as  the  dearer  descriptions.  There  is 
altogether  less  trouble  bestowed  on  the  preparation. 


COFFEE. 

741. — The  infusion  or  decoction  of  the  roasted  seeds  of  the 
coflTee-berry,  when  not  too  strong,  is  a  wholesome,  exhilarating, 
and  strengthening  beverage;  and,  when  mixed  with  a  large 
proportion  of  milk,  is  a  proper  article  of  diet  for  literary  and 
sedentary  people.  It  is  especially  suited  to  persons  advanced 
in  years.  People  who  are  bilious  and  liable  to  costiveness, 
should  abstain  from  it.  When  drank  very  strong,  it  proves 
stimulating  and  heating  in  a  considerable  degree,  creating  thirst 
and  producing  watchfulness.  By  an  abusive  indulgence  in  this 
drink,  the  organs  of  digestion  are  impaired,  the  appetite  is  de- 
troyed,  nutrition  is  impeded,  and  emaciation,  general  debility^ 
paialytic  affections,  and  nervous  ii^^^^r^  are  brought  on. 


190  MRS.  halb's  receipts  for  the  milliox. 

742.  Proper  method  of  making  Toast  and  Water,  and  t?€4 
advantages  resulting  therefrom, — Take  a  slice  of  fine  and  stale 
loaf-bread,  cut  very  thin — as  thin  as  toast  is  ever  cut — and  let 
it  be  carefully  toasted  on  both  sides,  until  it  be  completelg 
browned  all  over,  but  nowise  blackened  or  burned  in  any  way. 
Put  this  into  a  common  deep  stone  or  china  jug,  and  pour  over 
it,  from  the  tea-kettle,  as  much  clean  boiling  wjjter  as  you  wish 
to  make  into  drink.  Much  depends  on  the  water  being  actually 
in  a  boiling  state.  Cover  the  jug  with  a  saucer  or  plate,  and 
let  the  drink  cool  until  it  be  quite  cold ;  it  is  then  fit  to  be  used. 
The  fresher  it  is  made  the  better,  and  of  course  the  more  agree- 
able. The  above  will  be  found  a  pleasant,  light,  and  highly- 
diuretic  drink.  It  is  peculiarly  grateful  to  the  stomach,  and 
excellent  for  carrying  off  the  effects  of  any  excess  in  drinking. 
It  is  also  a  most  excellent  drink  at  meals,  and  may  be  used  in 
the  summer-time,  if  more  agreeable  to  the  drinker. 


743.  Baked  Milk, — Put  half  a  gallon  of  milk  into  ajar,  and 
tie  it  down  with  writing-paper.  Let  it  stand  in  a  moderately 
warm  oven  about  eight  or  ten  hours.  It  will  then  be  of  the 
consistence  of  cream.  It  is  used  by  persons  who  are  weak  or 
consumptive. 


744.  Substitute  for  Cream,  in  Tea  or  Coffee, — Beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  put  to  it  a  very  small  lump  of  butter,  and 
^mix  well.  Then  turn  the  coffee  to  it  gradually,  so  that  it  may 
not  curdle.  If  perfectly  done,  it  will  be  an  excellent  substitute 
for  cream.  For  tea,  omit  the  butter,  using  only  the  e^gg.  This 
might  be  of  great  use  at  sea,  as  eggs  can  be  preserved  fresh  in 
various  ways. 


745.  Economical  use  of  Nutmegs, — If  a  person  begin  to  grate 
a  nutmeg  at  the  stalk  end,  it  will  prove  hollow  throughout ; 
whereas  the  same  nutmeg,  grated  from  the  other  end,  would 
have  proved  sound  and  solid  to  the  last.  This  circumstance 
may  thus  be  accounted  for : — The  centre  of  a  nutmeg  consists 
of  a  number  of  fibres  issuing  from  the  stalk,  and  its  continuation 
through  the  centre  of  the  fruit ;  the  other  ends  of  which  fibres, 
though  closely  surrounded  and  pressed  by  the  fruit,  do  not  ad- 
here to  it.  When  the  stalk  is  grated  away,  those  fibres,  having 
lost  their  hold,  gradually  drop  out,  and  the  nutmeg  appears 
hollow :   as  more  of  the  stalk  is  grated  away,  others  drop  out 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  191 

In  succession,  and  the  hollow  continues  through  the  whole  nut. 
By  beginning  at  the  contrary  end,  the  fibres  above-mentioned 
are  grated  off  at  their  core  end,  with  the  surrounding  fruit,  and 
do  not  drop  out  and  cause  a  hole. 


746.  To  ascertain  the  quality  of  Nutmegs, — Oil  of  nutmegg 
being  of  great  value,  it  is  often  extracted  from  the  nuts  which 
are  exposed  to  sale,  and  which  are  thereby  rendered  of  \Qvy 
little  value.  To  ascertain  the  quality  of  nutmegs,  force  a  pin 
into  them;  and  if  good,  however  dry  they  may  appear,  the  oil 
will  be  seen  oozing  out  all  round  the  pin. 

747.  Essence  of  Nutmeg — Is  made  by  dissolving  one  ounce 
of  the  essential  oil  in  a  pint  of  rectified  spirits.  It  is  an  expen- 
sive but  invaluable  mode  of  flavoring,  in  the  arts  of  the  cook 
or  confectioner. 


748.  To  make  Essence  of  Celery. — Soak  for  a  fortnight  half 
an  ounce  of  the  seeds  of  celery  in  one  gill  of  brandy.  A  few 
drops  will  flavor  a  pint  of  soup  or  broth  equal  to  a  head  of 
celery. 

749.  Tincture  of  Lemon-peel. — Fill  a  wide-mouthed  pint  bottle 
half  full  of  brandy  ;  when  a  lemon  is  used,  pare  off  the  rind 
very  thin,  and  put  it  into  the  brandy.  In  two  weeks  the  spirit 
will  be  strongly  impregnated  with  the  flavor  of  the  lemon. 

750.  To  test  the  purity  of  Spirits. — See  if  the  liquor  will 
burn  away  entirely  :.  or,  place  a  hollow  ivory-ball  in  it;  the 
deeper  the  ball  sinks,  the  lighter  the  liquor,  and  consequently 
more  spirituous. 


751.  To  purify  Olive  Oil. — Turn  the  oil  into  a  crock  or  bottle, 
and  pour  in  a  quantity  of  pure  water;  shake  the  vessel  vigor- 
ously, and  let  it  stand  two  hours.  The  mucilaginous  matter 
which  is  the  cause  of  rancidity,  will  be  separated  from  the  oil, 
and  remain  in  the  water.  The  oil  can  be  decanted,  and  re- 
bottled  for  use. 


752.  To  preserve  Eggs. — The  most  simple  and  easy  mode  of 
preserving  eggs,  is  to  rub  the  outside  of  the  shell,  as  soon  as 
gathered  from  the  nest,  with  a  little  butter,  or  any  other  grease 


3  92  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

that  is  not  fetid.  By  filling  up  the  pores  of  the  shell,  the  evap- 
oration of  the  liquid  part  of  the  egg  is  prevented  ;  and  either 
by  that  means,  or  by  excluding  the  external  air,  which  Four- 
croy  supposes  destroys  the  milkiness  which  most  people  are 
fond  of  in  new-laid  eggs,  that  milkiness  will  be  preserved  for 
months,  as  perfect  as  when  the  egg  was  taken  from  the  nest. 


753.  Cream  preserved  in  Long  Voyages, — Mix  with  a  quantity 
of  fresh  rich  cream  half  its  weight  of  vrbite  sugar  in  powder ; 
stir  the  w^hole  well  together,  and  preserve  it  in  bottles  well 
corked.  In  this  state  it  is  ready  to  mix  with  tea  or  coffee,  and 
has  continued  in  good  condition  during  a  voyage  to  America. 

754.  To  preserve  Hazel  Nuts  in  great  perfection  for  many 
months, — Hazel  nuts  may  be  kept  a  long  time  in  full  kernel  by 
burying  them  in  earthen  pots,  w^ell  closed,  a  foot  or  two  in  the 
ground.     They  keep  best  in  gravelly  or  sandy  places.    • 

755.  JEasy  Method  of  2yreserving  Animal  Food. — Fresh  meat 
may  be  kept  for  nine  or  ten  days  perfectly  sweet  and  good,  in 
the  heat  of  summer,  by  lightly  covering  the  same  w^ith  bran, 
and  hanging  it  in  a  high  and  windy  room ;  a  cupboard  full  of 
small  holes,  or  a  wire  safe,  is  recommended  to  be  placed  in 
such  a  room,  to  keep  away  the  flies.  . 

•  756.  To  purify  Lemon-juice, — Add  one  ounce  of  pulverized, 
well  burnt  charcoal,  to  a  quart  of  lemon-juice  ;  after  standing 
twelve  hours,  filter  the  juice  through  white  blotting-paper ;  it 
will  keep  good  several  years  in  a  cellar,  in  a  bottle,  well 
corked  ;  a  thick  crust  will  form  beneath  the  cork,  and  the  mu- 
cilage w^ill  fall  to  the  bottom. 


757.  To  detect  Copper  in  Liquids, — Spirit  of  hartshorn  mixed 
with  them,  turns  them  blue.  Therefore  tea  is  not  dried  on  cop- 
per, as  an  infusion  of  it  is  not  turned  blue  by  thft  mixture. 
Cider,  being  passed  through  brass  pots,  is  detected  by  this  ex- 
periment.— Dr,  Mayes''  Lectures, 

758.  To  detect  the  Mixture  of  Arsenic, — A  solution  of  blue 
vitriol  droppqd  into  any  liquid  in  which  arsenic  has  been  put, 
will  turn  it  green. 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  193 

759.  To  test  Mushrooms. — ^Rub  the  upper  skin  with  a  gold 
ring  or  any  piece  of  gold  :  the  part  rubbed  will  turn  yellow  if 
it  IS  db  poisonous  fungus, 

760.  To  prepare  Salt, — Set  a  lump  of  salt  in  a  plate  before 
the  fire,  and  when  dry,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  or  rub  two  pieces 
of  salt  together;  it  will  then  be  free  from  lumps,  and  in  very 
fine  powder. 

761.  To  make  Cheap  and  Good  Vinegar. — To  eight  gallons 
of  clear  rain  water,  add  three  quarts  of  molasses  ;  turn  the  mix- 
ture into  a  clean  tight  cask,  shake  it  well  two  or  three  times, 
and  add  three  spoonsful  of  good  yeast,  or  two  yeast  cakes. 
Place  the  cask  in  a  warm  place,  and  in  ten  or  fifteen  days,  add 
a  sheet  of  common  wrapping-paper,  smeared  with  molasses,  and 
torn  into  narrow  strips,  and  you  will  have  good  vinegar.  Th© 
paper  is  necessary  to  form  the  "  mother,"  or  life  of  the  liquor. 


762.  To  prevent  Mouldiness. — The  best  preventive  is  any  ot 
the  essential  oils,  as  the  oil  of  lavender,  cloves,  peppermint,  &c. 
Russia  leather,  which  is  scented  with  the  tar  of  the  birch-tree, 
is  not  subject  to  mouldiness,  and  books  bound  in  it  will  even 
prevent  mouldiness  in  other  books  bound  in  calf,  near  which 
they  happen  to  lie. 

Aromatic  seeds  are  not  subject  to  mould,  and  gingerbread, 
or  cakes  containing  caraway  seeds  are  far  less  liable  to  mould  i- 
ness  than  plain  bread.  Children  have  been  poisoned  by  eating 
mouldy  bread. 

763.  To  keep  Fruits. — To  preserve  fruits,  you  must  keep 
them  in  a  room  rather  above  the  ground  floor,  sheltered  alike 
from  the  sun  and  damp  ;  it  is  even  prudent,  in  order  to  avoid 
opening  the  windows,  to  let  out  the  humid  exhalations  of  the 
ff  uit,  to  have  a  stove  in  the  room,  and  light  a  fire  in  it  now  and 
then.  The  decaying  fruit  should  be  carefully  removed.  Cher- 
ries, grapes,  &;c.,  are  kept  sound  by  hanging  them  to  threads, 
and  then  inclosing  them  in  new  boxes  or  barrels ;  these  are 
closed  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  deposited  in  a  dry  place. 
Some  preserve  them  by  laying  them  in  sawdust  or  bran. 

764.  To  preserve  Airples. — Dry  a  glazed  jar  perfectly  well, 
put  a  few  pebbles  in  the  bottom  ;  fill  the  jar  with  apples,  and 

13 


194  MBS.  bale's  eeceipts  for  the  ahllion. 

cover  it  with  a  bit  of  wood  made  to  fit  exactly ;  and  over  that, 
put  a  little  fresh  mortar.  The  pebbles  attract  the  damp  of  the 
apples.  The  mortar  draws  the  air  from  the  jar,  and  leaves  the 
apples  free  from  its  pressure,  which,  together  with  the  principle 
of  putrefaction  which  the  air  contains,  are  the  causes  of  decay. 
Apples,  kept  thus,  have  been  found  quite  sound,  fair,  and  juicy, 
in  July. 

765.  To  keep  Potatoes  from  frost. — If  you  have  not  a  conve- 
nient store-place  for  them,  dig  a  trench  three  or  four  feet  deep, 
into  which  they  are  to  be  laid  as  they  are  taken  up,  and  then 
covered  with  the  earth  taken  out  of  the  trench,  raised  up  in  the 
middle  like  the  roof  of  a  house,  and  covered  with  straw,  to 
carry  off  the  rain.     They  will  be  thus  preserved  from  the  frosty 

and  can  be  taken  up  as  they  are  wanted. 

*• 

766.  To  dry  Corn  for  winter  use. — Sweet  corn  is  the  best. 
Husk  it..  Have  a  pot  of  boiling  water — put  in  your  corn  and 
let  it  boir  three  minutes — then  cut  it  from  the  cobs  and  put  it 
in  pans  in  a  warm  oven.  It  must  be  stirred  frequently  ;  when 
perfectly  dry  put  it  away  in  bags.  When  wanted  for  use,  soak 
it  all  night,  next  day  boil  it  an  hour  with  a  little  salt;  before  it 
is  dished  stir  in  flour,  pepper,  and  butter. 


767,  To  preserve  Aromatic  and  other  Herbs. — The  boxes  and 
drawers  in  which  vegetable  matters  are  kept  should  not  impart 

wto  them  any  smell  or  taste  ;  and  more  certainly  to  avoid  this, 
they  should  be  lined  with  paper.  Such  as  are  volatile,  of  a 
delicate  texture,  or  subject  to  suffer  from  insects,  must  be  kept 
in  well  covered  glasses.  Fruits  and  oily  seeds,  which  are  apt 
to  become  rancid,  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  and  dry,  but  by  no 
means  in  a  warm  or  moist  place. 

768,  To  dry  Herbs. — Dry  the  gathered  crop,  thinly  spread 
out,  and  shaded  from  the  sun ;  tie  the  herbs  in  small  bundles, 
and  keep  them  compactly  pressed  down  and  covered  with  white 
paper.  Or,  after  drying  them,  put  each  sort  into  a  small  box, 
and  by  means  of  boards,  of  the  size  of  the  interior  length  and 
width  of  the  box,  and  a  "Screw-press,  press  the  herbs  into  cakes, 
or  little  trusses.  These  should  be  afterwards  carefully  wrapped 
up  in  paper,  and  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  when  they  will  retain 
their  aroma  as  perfectly  as  when  they  were  put  into  tne  press, 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  195 

for,  at  least,  three  years.     By  the  common  mode  of  hanging  up 
herbs  in  loose  bundles,  the  odor  soon  escapes. 

769.  To  dry  Chamomile  Flowers, — Pull  them,  from  time  to 
time,  as  they  are  produced ;  for  the  plants  continue  to  blossom 
in  succession  for  several  months.  When  gathered,  dry  them 
gradually,  partly  in  the  sun,  and  partly  in  the  Lhade,  by  being 
spread  upon  a  mat  or  sheet,  removed  out  of  the  sun  in  the  heat 
of  the  day,  and  placed  in  it  mornings  and  evenings. 

Lavender  Flowers  should  also  be  dried  as  chamomiles. 

Marigold  Flowers^  dried,  improve  broths  and  soups,  however 
much  they  may  have  got  into  disuse. 


770.  Winter  Herbs, — The  best  time  for  gathering  herbs  for 
winter  use  is  when  they  are  in  blossom.  If  left  till  they  are  in 
seed,  the  strength  goes  to  the  seed.  They  are  best  picked 
from  the  stocks,  dried  quickly  (but  not  burnt),  before  the  fire, 
and  rubbed  into  powder,  then  bottled. 


771.  Galvanism  a  Protector  of  Trees. — A  German  journal 
states  that  the  application  of  galvanism  has  been  made  in  Aus- 
tria for  preserving  trees  and  plants  from  the  ravages  of  insects. 
The  process  is  very  simple,  consisting  only  in  placing  two 
rings,  one  of  copper,  the  other  of  zinc,  attached  together,  around 
the  tree  or  plant.  Any  insect  that  touches  the  copper  receives 
an  electric  shock,  which  kills  it  or  causes  it  to  fall  to'  the 
ground. 

772.  Moss  on  Trees, — The  following  is  an  excellent  applica- 
tion to  the  scraped  trunk  to  prevent  the  growth  of  moss,  and 
destroy  eggs  of  insects.  One  gallon  of  soft  soap,  one  pound 
of  flour  of  sulphur,  and  one  quart  of  salt,  to  be  well  stirred  to- 
gether and  put  on  with  a  hard  brush. 


773.  To  destroy  Caterpillars  in  Gooseberry  Trees, — Gather  dust 
from  any  turnpike  road,  and  shake  it  well  among  the  trees,  and 
the  caterpillars  will  immediately  fall   to  the  ground.     It  is  an 

^  excellent  plan  to  dust  the  trees  twice  or  three  times  a  week,  as 
it  will  effectually  prevent  the  lodgment  of  caterpillars. 

774.  A  neat  method  of  Grafting, — Prepare  the  stock  and  the 
graft  in  the  same  way  as  for  grafting  with  clay  in  the  common 


196  3IRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million, 

way.  Then  take  a  long  slip  of  India-rubber,  three-quarters  of 
an  inch  broad,  and  about  the  thickness  of  a  shilling.  Tie  one 
end  of  this  elastic  riband  with  a  thread,  well  prepared  by  rub- 
bing with  shoemakers'  wax,  to  the  stock,  a  little  below  where 
it  is  cut  for  being  joined  to  the  graft ;  then  make  the  joint  as 
neatly  as  possible,  and  wrap  it  round  with  the  riband,  taking 
due  care  to  keep  the  India-rubber  fully  stretched,  and  to  make 
it  overlap  at  each  turn  fully  one-half  of  the  breadth  of  the  pre- 
vious round,  till  the  whole  is  covered,  then  tie  the  top  with  a 
thread  in  the  same  manner  as  at  the  bottom,  and  the  operation 
is  finished.  After  grafting  the  trees  in  the  manner  described, 
nothing  is  done  to  them  till  they  are  completely  set,  when  the 
India-rubber  slips  are  taken  off  to  be  ready  again  for  the  next 
year.  When  opened  up,  there  is  scarcely  any  appearance  of  a 
ioint,  and  altogether  they  are  much  neater  than  when  done  with 
clay. 


775.  To  Kill  Vermin  on  Plants. — Tobacco  water  is  much 
used  for  the  above  purposes ;  it  is  made  by  pouring  a  gallon 
of  boiling  water  upon  a  pound  of  tobacco  leaves,  and  straining 
it  in  twenty  minutes. 

Or,  syringe  the  plants  with  this  mixture  :  put  into  a  jar  five 
gallons  of  spring  water  and  four  ounces  of  chloride  of  lime,  to 
which  add  four  ounces  of  vitriol ;  when  the  lime  is  precipitated, 
pour  off  the  clear  solution,  and  keep  it  air-tight. 

Or,  mix  coal  tar  and  water,  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  infected 
'^  plants. 


776.  To  Propagate  Plants. — It  may  be  received  as  a  general 
principle,  that  all  plants  which  produce  shoots  may  be  propa- 
gated by  cuttings ;  though  some  plants  are  much  more  difficult 
to  propagate  in  this  manner  than  others.  Generally  speaking, 
all  the  soft-wooded  plants  which  have  abundance  of  sap,  such 
as  geraniums,  fuchsias,  petunias,  and  verbenas,  strike  root 
readily.  The  usual  mode  for  striking  cuttings  is  to  put  them 
in  fine  sand,  and  to  cover  them  with  a  bell-glass.  Some  cut- 
tings which  are  difficult  to  strike  are  directed  to  have  bottom 
heat;  that  is,  the  pots  in  which  they  are  planted  should  be 
plunged  into  a  hot-bed,  that  the  stimulus  afforded  by  the  heat 
may  induce  the  cuttings  to  throw  out  roots. 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  197 

777.  Plants  watered  hy  being  placed  in  Dishes^  improper, — The 
practice  of  placing  flats  or  saucers  under  plants,  and  feeding 
them  by  the  roots,  that  is,  pouring  the  \vater  continually  into 
these  dishes,  and  never  on  the  earth  at  top,  is  highly  improper. 
The  water  should  always  be  poured  on  the  surface  of  the  earth, 
that  it  may  filter  completely  through  it,  to  the  benefit  and  re- 
freshment of  the  fibres. 


778.  When  to  plant  Annual  and  Perennial  Flowers, — Many 
kinds  of  annuals  and  perennials,  sown  in  March  and  the  begin- 
ning of  April,  will  be  fit  for  transplanting  about  the  end  of 
May,  and  may  either  be  planted  in  patches  about  borders,  or 
in  beds,  as  fancy  shall  direct.  Of  these,  the  kinds  improved  by 
transplanting  are,  amaranthuses,  China  asters,  columbines, 
French  and  African  marigolds,  fox-gloves,  hollyhocks,  In- 
dia pinks,  love-lies-bleeding,  mallows,  mignonette,  prince's 
feather,  scabious,  stocks,  sun-flowers,  sweet-williams,  wall- 
flowers, and  others.  They  should  be  planted  out  in  a  showery 
time,  if  possible,  or  otherwise  be  frequently  watered,  till  they 
have  struck  root. 


779.  To  preserve  Flower  Seeds, — Those  who .  are  curious 
about  saving  flower-seeds  must  attend  to  them  in  the  month  of 
August.  Many  kinds  will  begin  to  ripen  apace,  and  should  be 
carefully  sticked  and  supported,  to  prevent  them  from  being 
shaken  by  high  winds,  and  so  partly  lost.  Others  should  be 
defended  from  much  w^et;  such  as  asters,  marigolds,  and  gen- 
erally those  of  the  class  Syngenesia  ;  as  from  the  construction 
of  their  flowers  they  are  apt  to  rot,  and  the  seeds  to  mould,  in 
bad  seasons.  Whenever  they  are  thought  ripe,  or  indeed  any 
others,  in  wet  weather,  they  should  be  removed  to  an  airy 
shed  or  loft,  gradually  dried,  and  rubbed  or  beat  out  at  con- 
veniency,  ^ 

780.  Fasy  Method  of  discovering  whether  or  not  Seeds  are  suf- 
ficiently ripe, — Seeds,  when  not  sufficiently  ripe,  will  swim,  but 
when  arrived  at  full  maturity,  they  will  be  found  uniformly  to 
fall  to  the  bottom  ;  a  fact  that  is  said  to  hold  equally  true  of 
ftl]  seeds,  from  the  cocoa-nut  to  the  orchis. 


198  MRS.    HALB's    RECIIPTS    FOR    THB    MILLION. 


HINTS  TO  FAEMERS. 

781.  There  are  some  things  that  all  farmers  ought  to  know. 

Sheep  put  into  fresh  stubble  are  apt  to  be  killed  by  eating 
too  much  grain. 

A  bare  pasture  enriches  not  the  soil,  nor  fattens  the  animals, 
nor  increases  the  wealth  of  the  owner. 

One  animal  well  fed  is  of  more  value  than  two  poorly  kept. 

The  better  animals  can  be  fed,  and  the  more  comfortable  they 
can  be  kept,  the  more  profitable  they  are — and  all  farmers  work 
for  profit. 

Ground  once  well  plowed  is  better  than  thrice  poorly. 

Bountiful  crops  are  more  profitable  than  poor  ones.  Make 
the  soil  rich,  pulverize  it  well,  and  keep  it  clean,  and  it  gen- 
erally will  be  productive. 

Weeds  that  grow  unmolested  around  the  fences,  stumps,  and 
stones,  scatter  their  seeds  over  the  farm,  and  are  vei^  likely  to 
increase. 

Cows  well  fed  in  winter  give  more  milk  in  summer.  An  ox 
that  is  in  good  condition  in  the  spring,  will  perform  more 
labor,  and  stand  the  heat  of  summer  much  better  than  one  that 
is  poor. 

When  you  see  the  fence  down,  put  it  up  :  if  it  remains  until 
to-morrow,  the  cattle  may  get  over. 

What  ought  to  be  done  to-day,  do  it;  for  to-morrow  it  may 
rain. 

A  strong  horse  will  work  all  day  without  food,  but  keep  him 
at  it,  and  he  will  not  last  long. 

A  rich  soil  will  produce  good  crops  without  manure,  but 
keep  it  at  it,  and  it  will  tire. 

Farmers'  sons  had  better  learn  to  hold  the  plow,  and  feed 
the  pigs,  than  measure  tape  and  count  buttons. 

Young  ladies  who  have  the  good  fortune  to  become  farmers' 
wives  will  find  it  more  profitable  to  know  how  fo  make  Johnny- 
cake,  butter,  and  cheese,  than  to  play  on  the  piano. 

All  who  wish  to  be  rich,  must  spend  less  than  they  earn. 


MANAGEMENT  OF  A  HORSE. 

782.  When  a  horse  is  brought  in  hot,  loosen  the  girth,  and 
allow  the  saddle  to  remain  on  for  five  minutes.     Let  him  be 


DdMEflTIC    ECGNOMT,    ETC.  199 

walked  about  in  summer,  and,  in  the  winter,  be  put  directly 

in  the  stable. 

A  horse  should  not  be  permitted  to  drink  cold  water,  whilst 
w^arm ;  neither  should  the  legs  or  feet  of  a  horse  be  washed, 
until  he  gets  cold. 

Horses  prefer  soft  water,  and  it  is  best  for  them.  If  the 
water  be  very  hard  and  brackish,  put  a  small  piece  of  chalk 
into  a  pail  of  water,  some  time  before  it  is  given  to  the  horse. 

Fourteen  pounds  of  hay  in  one  day,  or  one  hundred  pounds 
a  week,  with  three  feeds  of  corn  a  day,  are  sufficient  for  a  horse 
that  is  not  over-worked. 

In^  travelling,  after  the  principal  feed,  let  a  horse  have  not 
less  than  two  hours'  rest,  that  his  food  may  have  time  to  digest. 

After  a  hard  day's  work,  give  a  horse  about  two  gallons  of 
gruel,  made  with  a  quart  of  oatmeal,  half  a  gallon  of  ale,  half 
a  quartern  of  brandy,  and  the  proper  quantity  of  water.  Wet- 
ted bran  may  be  given  advantageously  to  lean  horses. 

783.  To  dress  a  Horse, — On  entering  the  stable,  first  give  him 
about  a  gallon  of  clean  water  in  a  clean  pail ;  then  shake  up 
the  best  litter  under  the  manger,  sweep  out  the  stall,  and  clean 
out  the  stable. 

Whilst  the  horse  is  feeding,  dress  him :  first,  curry  him  all 
over  with  the  currycomb,  to  loosen  the  dirt  and  dust  on  his 
skin ;  then  remove  the  dust  with  a  whalebone  brush ;  next, 
smooth  and  cleanse  the  coat  with  a  wisp  of  straw ;  and  again 
use  the  brush  and  currycomb,  to  take  off  what  dust  may  remain ; 
after  which,  whisk  him  again  with  a  damp  lock  of  hay ;  and, 
finally,  rub  him  down  with  a  woollen  or  linen  cloth. 

Then  turn  round  the  horse  in  the  stall,  brush  his  head  well, 
and  wisp  it  clean  and  smooth  with  a  damp  lock  of  hay.  Then 
wipe  the  dust  and  filth  from  the  inside  of  the  ears  with  a  damp 
sponge,  and  draw  the  ears  through  the  hands  for  a  few  minutes, 
until  they  are  warm.  Wash  out  the  sponge,  and  with  it  cleanse 
the  dust,  (Sec,  from  the  eyes ;  sponge  the  nostrils,  and  then  rub 
the  whole  head  with  a  cloth,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  body. 

Next,  turn  the  horse  round  into  his  proper  situation,  put  on 
the  head-stall,  and  with  a  sponge  wash  the  dirt  and  filth  from 
under  the  tail.  Then,  clean  and  lay  the  mane  with  a  comb  and 
water-brush,  used  alternately  with  both  hands ;  again  wipe  over 
the  head  and  body,  put  on  the  body-clothes,  and  fasten  them 
with  a  surcingle. 


200  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

Examine  the  heels,  pick  out  the  dirt  from  the  feet,  and  wash 
the  heels  with  a  brush  and  plenty  of  water.  If  the  horse  has 
bad  feet,  they  should  be  dressed  and  stuffed. 

lastly,  shake  hay  into  the  rack ;  and  then  the  horse  will  be 
completely  dressed. 

784.  Horse  Flies. — To  prevent  horses  being  teased  with  flies, 
take  two  or  three  small  handfuls  of  walnut  leaves,  upon  which 
pour  two  or  three  quarts  of  soft  cold  water ;  let  it  infuse  one 
night ;  pour  the  whole  next  morning  into  a  kettle,  and  let  it 
boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour :  when  cold,  it  will  be  ready  for 
use.  Nothing  more  is  required  than  to  moisten  a  sponge  'with 
the  liquid,  and,  before  the  horse  goes  out  of  the  stable,  let  those 
parts  which  are  most  irritable  be  smeared  over  with  the  liquor, 
namely,  between  and  upon  the  ears,  the  flank,  &c. 

785.  To  milk  Cows, — A  cow  should  be  milked  clean.  Not 
a  drop,  if  it  can  be  avoided,  should  be  left  in  the  udder.  It 
has-been  proved  that  the  half-pint  that  comes  out  last^  has 
twelve  times,  I  think  it  is,  as  much  butter  in  it,  as  the  half-pilit 
that  comes  out  JlrsL  The  udder  would  seem  to  be  a  sort  of 
milk-pan,  in  which  the  cream  is  uppermost,  and,  of  course,  comes 
out  last,  seeing  that  the  outlet  is  at  the  bottom.  But,  besides 
this,  if  you  do  not  milk  clean,  the  cow  will  give  less  and  less 
milk,  and  will  become  dry  much  sooner  than  she  ought. — • 
Cobbett 


EAISING  POULTRY. 

786.  There  is  scarcely  any  branch  of  farming  operations  more 
productive  than  the  raising  of  poultry  for  market ;  and  yet, 
with  a  large  majority  of  our  agriculturists,  it  is  considered  of 
but  little  account.  The  proximity  to  a  great  market,  and  the 
facilities  for  reaching  it  possessed  by  many  of  our  farmers  in 
this  country,  should  make  the  rearing  of  poultry  an  object  of 
attention. 


787.  To  fatten  Poultry. — Poultry  should  be  fattened  in  coops, 
and  kept  very  clean.  They  should  be  furnished  with  gravel, 
but  with  no  w^ater.  Their  only  food,  barley-meal,  mixed  so 
thin  with  water,  as  to  serve  them  for  drink.  Their  thirst  makes 
them  eat  more  than  they  would,  in  order  to  extract  the  water 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.-  201 

that  is  among  the  food.  This  should  not  be  put  in  troughs 
but  laid  upon  a  board,  which  should  be  clean  washed  every 
time  fresh  food  is  put  upon  it.  It  is  foul  and  heated  water 
which  is  the  sole  cause  of  the  pip. 

788.  Method  of  expeditiously  fattening  ChicJcens, — Take,  for 
that  purpose,  a  quantity  of  rice,  and  grind  or  pound  it  into  a 
fine  flour ;  mix  sufficient  for  present  use  with  milk  and  a  little 
coarse  sugar;  stir  the  whole  well  over  the  fire,  till  it  makes  a 
thick  paste ;  and  feed  the  chickens,  in  the  day-time  only,  by 
putting  as  much  of  it  as  they  can  eat,  but  no  more,  into  the 
troughs  belonging  to  their  coops.  It  must  be  eaten  while  warm  ; 
and,  if  they  have  also  beer  to  drink,  they  will  soon  grow  very 
fat.  A  mixture  of  oatmeal  and  treacle,  combined  till  it  crum- 
bles,' is  said  to  form  a  food  for  chickens,  of  which  they  are  so 
fond,  and  with  which  they  thrive  so  rapidly,  that  at  the  end  of 
two  months  they  become  as  large  as  the  generality  of  full-grown 
fowls  fed  in  the  common  way. 

789.  Method  of  fattening  Geese  and  Ducks, — Geese,  the  more 
quiet  and  undisturbed  they  are  kept,  the  faster  and  better  they 
fatten.  Put  young  geese  into  a  place  that  is  almost  dark ;  feed 
them  with  ground  malt  mixed  with  milk,  and  they  will  very 
soon,  and  at  very  little  expense,  be  fit  to  kill. 

Another  way  is  cheaper  still : — Mix  barley-meal,  pretty  thick, 
with  water,  which  they  must  constantly  have  by  them,  to  eat^ 
i  s  they  choose ;  in  another  part  of  the  shed  where  they  are, 
keep  a  pan  with  some  boiled  oats  and  water,  for  them  to  resort 
to  when  they  are  inclined  to  change  their  food.  This  variety 
is  agreeable  to  them,  and  they  thrive  apace,  being  so  fattened 
at  less  expense  than  in  any  other  manner. 

790.  Cobbetfs  method  of  fattening  Geese, — Geese  are  raised 
by  grazing  :  but,  to  fat  them,  something  more  is  required. 
Corn  of  some  sort,  or  boiled  Swedish  turnips,  or  carrots,  or 
white  cabbages,  or  lettuces,  make  the  best  fatting.  The  modes 
that  are  resorted  to  by  the  French  for  fatting  geese,  are,  I  hope, 
such  as  Englishmen  will  never  think  of.  He  who  can  deliber- 
ately inflict  torture  upon  an  animal,  in  order  to  heighten  the 
pleasure  his  palate  is  to  receive  in  eating  it,  is  an  abuser  of  the 
authority  which  God  has  given  him,  and  is,  indeed,  a  tyrant  in 
his  heart.  Who  would  think  himself  safe,  if  at  the  mercy  of 
vuch  a  man  ? 


202  MRS.    H alb's    RBCIIPTS    FOR    THl    MILLION. 

791.  Swedish  method  of  raising  Turkeys, — As  soon  as  the 
young  turkeys  leave  the  shell,  they  are  made  to  swallow  one 
or  two  pepper-corns,  and  returned  to  their  mother.  They  are 
afterwards  fed  with  crlimbs  of  bread  and  milk,  and  with  com- 
mon dock-leaves,  chopped  small,  and  mixed  with  fresh  butter- 
milk, and  kept  in  a  warm  place  or  sunshine,  and  guarded  from 
the  rain  or  from  running  among  nettles. 

Nothing,  however,  is  more  useful  for  them  than  the  common 
garden  pepper-cress,  or  cut-leaved  cress.  They  are  very  fond 
of  it ;  and,  supplied  with  as  much  of  it  as  they  will  eat,  they 
will  not  be  delicate  in  their  other  food. 


792.  To  fatten  Turkeys  as  they  do  in  Norfolk, — The  quality 
and  size  of  the  Norfolk  turkeys  are  superior  to  those  of  any 
other  part  of  England.  They  are  fed  almost  entirely  with 
buckwheat ;  and  give  them  with  it  boiled  oats,  boiled  malt,  or 
boiled  barley,  and  sometimes,  for  change,  even  boiled  wheat 
and  water. 


793.  To  fatten  Ducks, — Feed  them  with  the  same  food  as 
the  turkeys  or  geese,  and  let  them  have  a  pan  of  water  to 
dabble  in. 


794.  To  make  Hens  lay  perpetually , — Hens  will  lay  perpetu- 
ally, if  treated  in  the  following  manner:— Keep  no  roosters 
(cocks)  :  give  the  hens  fresh  meat,  chopped  up  like  sausage- 
meat,  once  a  day  ;  a  very  small  portion,  say  half  an  ounce  a  day 
to  each  hen,  during  the  winter,  or  from  the  time  insects  disap- 
pear in  the  full  till  they  appear  again  in  the  spring.  Never 
allow  any  eggs  to  remain  in  the  nest  for  what  are  called  "  nest 
eggs."  When  the  roosters  do  not  run  with  the  hens,  and  no 
nest  eggs  are  left  in  the  nest,  the  hens  will  not  cease  laying 
after  the  production  of  twelve  or  fifteen  eggs,  as  they  always  do 
when  roosters  and  nest  eggs  are  allowed ;  but  continue  laying 
perpetually.  The  only  reason  why  hens  do  not  lay  in  winter 
as  freely  as  in  summer,  is  the  want  of  animal  food,  which  they 
get  in  summer  in  abundance,  in  the  form  of  insects. 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  208 


HDTTS  FOR  THE  PRESERVATION  OF  HUMAN  LIFE  FROM  FIRE. 

795.  Cautions,  —  Sweep  chimneys  regularly;  sweep  fre- 
quently the  lower  part  of  the  chimney  wdthin  reach  ;  the  kitcheu 
chimney  should  be  swept  once  a  month. 

796.  Fires  in  Chimneys, — When  a  chimney  or  flue  is  on  fire, 
throw  into  the  fire-place  handfuls  of  flour  of  sulphur,  which  will 
destroy  the  flame.  Or,  apply  a  wet  blanket,  or  old  carpet,  to 
the  throat  of  the  chimney,  or  over  the  front  of  the  fire-place. 
A  chimney -board,  or  register-flap,  will  answer  the  same  pur 
pose,  by  stopping  the  draught  of  air  from  below. 

Beware  of  lights  near  combustibles;  of  children  near  fires 
and  lights ;  and  do  not  trust  them  with  candles.  Do  not  leave 
olothes  to  dry  by  the  fire  unwatched,  either  day  or  night ;  do 
not  leave  the  poker  in  the  fire ;  see  that  all  be  safe  before  you 
retire  to  rest. 


797.  Persons  in  Danger, — When  a  fire  happens,  put  it  out  in 
its  earliest  stage  ;  if  suflered  to  extend  itself,  give  the  alarm. 
Beware  of  opening  doors,  &c.,  to  increase  the  fire  by  fresh  air. 
Muster  the  whole  family,  see  that  none  are  missing.  First  save 
lives,  then  property.  Think  of  the  ways  of  escape;  by  the 
stairs,  if  no  better  way — creep  along  a  room  where  the  fire  is, 
and  creep  down  stairs  backwards  on  hands  and  knees — (heated 
air  ascends) ;  come  down  stairs  with  a  pillow  before  your 
face,  and  a  wet  blanket  round  the  body,  and  hold  your  breath  * 
or  try  the  roof  of  the  adjoining  house.  Throw  out  of  the  win- 
dow a  feather  bed,  to  leap  upon  in  the  last  extremity — fasten 
fire-escapes  to  the  bed-posts  first— send  children  down  by  the 
sack  fastened  to  a  rope,  taking  care  of  the  iron  spikes  and  area ; 
then  lower  yourselves. 

798.  Means  of  Extinction. — The  safety  of  the  inmates  being 
ascertained,  the  first  object  at  a  fire  should  be  the  exclusion  of 
all  fresh  and  the  confinement  of  all  burnt  air — suffocate  the 
flames — an^  remember  that  burnt  air  is  as  great,  if  not  a  greater 
enemy  to  fire  than  water.  For  both  purposes,  of  excluding  the 
one  air,  and  confining  the  other,  all  openings  should  be  kept  as 
carefully  closed  as  possible.  The  prevailing  practice  of  break- 
ing windows  is  peculiarly  mischievous.  The  only  excuse  for 
this  is  the  admission  of  water ;  but  if  the  firemen  were  provided 


204  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

with  self  supporting  ladders,  (that  need  not  lean  against  the 
wall,)  they  might  direct  the  water-hose  through  a  single  broken 
pane,  with  ten  times  more  accuracy  than  by  their  random 
squirting  from  the  street.  Water  should  be*  made  to  beat  out 
the  fire  by  its  impetus ;  sprinkling  is  useless. 


7^9.  Neighbors  and  Spectators, — When  a  fire  happens,  lei 

every  respectabte  neighbor  attend.  Send  instantly  for  engines, 
both  of  the  parish  and  of  the  insurance  companies,  and  the  par- 
ish and  other  ladder  and  fire-escapes.  Look  for  the  nearest  fire- 
plug— send  instantly  for  policemen,  and  see  they  attend,  and 
are  active. 


800.  Method  of  escape  from  Fire. — The  following  simple  ma- 
chine ought  always  to  be  kept  in  an  upper  apartment.  It  is 
nothing  more  tha.i  a  shilling  or  eighteen-penny  rope,  one  end 
of  which  should  always  be  made  fast  to  something  in  the  cham- 
ber, and  at  the  other  end  should  be  a  noose  to  let  down  chil- 
dren or  infirm  persons,  in  case  of  fire.  Along  the  rope  there 
should  be  several  knots,  to  serve  as  resting  places  for  the  hands 
and  feet  of  the  person  who  drops  down  by  it.  No  family  oc- 
cupying high  houses  should  ever  be  without  a  contrivance  of 
this  kind. 


801.  To  mahe  Water  more  efficacious  in  extinguishing  Fires, — 
Throw  into  a  pump,  which  contains  fifty  or  sixty  buckets  of 
water,  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  salt  or  pearlashes,  and  the  water 
thus  impregnated  will  wonderfully  accelerate  the  extinction  of 
the  most  furious  conflagration.  Muddy  water  is  better  than 
clear,  and  can  be  obtained  when  salt  and  ashes  cannot. 


802.  To  extinguish  Fires  speedily. — Much  mischief  arises  from 
want  of  a  little  presence  of  mind  on  these  alarming  occasions. 
^  small  quantity  of  water,  well  and  immediately  applied,  will 
frequently  obviate  great  danger.  The  moment  an  alarm  of  fire 
is  given,  wet  some  blankets  well  in  a  bucket  of  water,  and 
spread  them  upon  the  h  r  of  the  room  where  the  fire  is,  and 
afterwards  beat  out  the  other  flames  with  a  blanket  thus  wet. 
Two  or  three  buckets  of  water  thus  used  early,  will  answer 
better  than  hundreds  applied  at  a  later  -period.  Linen  thus 
w<^,t  will  be  useful,  but  will  not  answer  so  well  as  w^oollen. 


DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  205 

803.  To  escape  from  or  go  into  a  House  on  fire, — Creep  oi 
crawl  with  your  face  near  the  ground,  and,  although  the  room 
be  full  of  smoke  to  suffocation,  yet  near  the  floor  the  air  is 
pure,  and  may  be  breathed  with  safety.  The  best  escape  from 
upper  windows  is  by  a  knotted  rope ;  but,  if  a  leap  is  unavoid- 
able, then  the  bed  should  be  thrown  out  first,  or  beds  prepared 
for  the  purpose. 


804.  Hints  respecting  Women's  and  Children's  Clothes  catch- 
ing fire. — The  woman  and  children  in  every  family  should  bo 
particularly  told  and  shown,  that  flame  always  tends  upwards; 
and,  consequently,  that  as  long  as  they  continue  erect,  or  in 
£gi  upright  posture,  while  their  clothes  are  burning,  the  fire 
generally  beginning  at  the  lower  part  of  the  dress,  the  flames 
meeting  additional  fuel,  as  they  rise,  become  more  powerful 
in  proportion  ;  whereby  the  neck  and  head,  being  more  exposed 
than  other  parts  to  the  intense  and  concentrated  heat,  must 
necessarily  be  most  injured.  In  a  case  of  this  kind,  where  the 
sufferer  happens  to  be  alone,  and  cannot  extinguish  the  flames 
by  instantly  throwing  the  clothes  over  the  head^  and  rolling  or 
lying  upon  them,  she  may  still  avoid  great  agony,  and  save  her 
life,  by  throwiiig  herself  at  full-length  on  the  floor,  and  rolling 
herself  thereon.  This  method  may  not  extinguish  the  flame, 
but,  to  a  certainty,  will  retard  its  progress,  prevent  fatal  injury 
to  the  neck  and  head,  and  afford  opportunity  for  assistance ; 
and  it  may  be  more  practicable  than  the  other,  to  the  aged  and 
infirm.  A  carpet  or  hearth-rug  instantly  lapped  round  the  head 
and  body,  is  almost  a  certain  preventive  of  danger. 

805.  Method  of  rendering  all  sorts  of  Paper,  Linen,  and  Cot-^ 
ton,  less  comhustihle, — This  desirable  object  may  be,  in  some 
degree,  effected,  by  immersing  these  combustible  materials  in 
a  strong  solution  of  alum-water  ;  and,  after  drying  them,  repeat- 
ing this  immersion,  if  necessary.  Thus,  neither  the  color  nor 
the  quality  of  the  paper  will  be  in  the  least  affected;  on  the 
contrary,  both  will  be  improved  :  and  the  result  of  the  experi- 
ment  may  be  ascertained,  by  holding  a  slip  of  paper,  so  pre- 
pared, over  a  candle.  * 

806.  To  extricate  Horses  from  fire, — If  the  harness  be  thrown 
over  a  draught,  or  the  saddle  placed  on  the  back  of  a  saddle 
horse,  they  may  be  led  out  of  the  stable  as  easily  as  on  common 


206  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

occasions.  Should  there  be  time  to  substitute  the  bridle  for  the 
halter,  the  difficulty  towards  saving  them  will  be  stilj^furthe* 
diminished. 


807.  Method  of  renaering  assistance  to  persons  in  danger  of 
Drowning, — This  desirable  object  appears  attainable  by  the 
proper  use  of  a  man's  hat  and  pocket-handkerchief,  which  (being 
all  the  apparatus  necessary)  is  to  be  used'  thus  : — Spread  the 
handkerchief  on  the  ground,  and  place  a  hat,  with  the  brim 
downwards,  on  the  middle  of  the  handkerchief;  and  then  tie 
the  handkerchief  round  the  hat  as  you  would  tie  up  a  bundle, 
keeping  the  knots  as  near  the  centre  of  the  crown  as  may  be. 
Now,  by  seizing  the  knots  in  one  hand,  and  keeping  the  opening 
of  the  hat  upwards,  a  person,  without  knowing  how  to  swim, 
may  fearlessly  plunge  into  the  water  with  what  may  be  neces- 
sary to  save  the  life  of  a  fellow-creature. 

If  a  person  should  fall  out  of  a  boat,  or  the  boat  upset,  by 
going  foul  of  a  cable,  &c.,  or  should  he  fall  off  the  quays,  or 
indeed  fall  into  any  water  from  which  he  could  not  extricate 
himself,  but  must  wait  some  little  time  for  assistance — had  he 
presence  of  mind  enough  to  whip  off  his  hat,  and  hold  it  by  the 
brim,  placing  his  fingers  withinside  the  crown,  and  hold  it  so, 
(top  downwards),  he  would  be  able,  by  this  method,  to  keep 
his  mouth  well  above  water  till  assistance  should  reach  him. 
It  often  happens  that  danger  is  descried  long  before  we  are 
involved  in  the  peril,  an^  time  enough  to  prepare  the  above 
method ;  and  a  courageous  person  would,  in  seven  instances 
out  of  ten^  apply  to  them  with  success;  and  travellers,  in  ford- 
ing rivers  at  unknown  fords,  or  where  shallows  are  deceitful, 
might  make  use  of  these  methods  with  advantage. 

808.  To  prevent  excessive  Thirst,  in  cases  of  emergency  at  Sea^ 
in  the  summer-time, — When  thirst  is  excessive,  as  is  often  the 
case  in  summer-time,  during  long  voyages,  avoid,  if  possible^ 
even  in  times  of  the  greatest  necessity^  the  drinking  of  salt  water 
to  allay  the  thirst;  but  rather  keep  thinly  clad,  and  frequently 
dip  in  the  sea,  which  will  appease  both  hunger  and  thirst  for  a 
long  time,  and  prevent  the  disagreeable  sensation  of  swallowing 
salt  water. 


809.   Best  mode  of  avoiding  the  fatal  Accidents  of  Open  Car- 
riages,— Jumping  out  is  particularly  dangerous,    (the  motion 


,  DOMESTIC    ECONOMY,    ETC.  207 

of  the  gig  communicating  a  different  one  to  the  one  you  give 
yourself  by  jumping),  which  tends  very  much  to  throw  you  on 
your  side  or  head.  Many  suppose  it  very  easy  to  jump  a  little 
forward,  and  alight  safe :  they  will  not  find  it  so  on  trial.  The 
method  of  getting  out  behind  the  carriage,  is  the'most  safe  of 
any,  having  often  tried  it  when  the  horse  has  been  going  very 
fast.  Perhaps  it  i^  best  to  fix  yourself  firm,  and  remain  in  the 
carriage. 

810.  Recovery  from  Suffocation^  dtc, — There  are  many  occa- 
sions of  danger,  on  which  a  person  who  can  hold  breath  for  a 
minute  or  two,  may  save  the  life  of  another.  The  best  prepa- 
ration for  rendering  such  assistance  is,  by  breathing  deep,  hard, 
and  quick,  (as  a  person  would  do  after  running,)  and  ceasing 
with  his  lungs  full  of  air;  he  will  then  find  himself  able  to  hold 
his  breath  more  than  twice  as  long  as  he  would  without  such 
preparation. 

If  in  a  brew^er's  fermenting  vat,  or  an  opened  cess-pool,  one 
man  sinks  senseless  and  helpless,  from  breathing  the  foul  air, 
another  man  of  cool  mind  would,  by  the  above  preparation, 
have  abundant  time,  in  most  cases,  to  descend  by  the  ladder  or 
bucket,  and  rescue  the  sufferer,  without  any  risk  to  himself. 
In  entering  a  room  on  fire,  a  knowledge  of  this  fact  may  be 
useful. 

The  following  precautions  should  also  be  regarded.  Avoid 
all  unnecessary  exertion ;  go  coolly  and  quietly  to  the  spot 
where  help  is  required ;  do  no  more  than  is  needful,  leaving  the 
rest  to  be  done  by  those  in  a  safe  atmosphere. 

In  case  of  choke  damp,  as  in  a  brewer's  vat,  hold  the  head  as 
high  as  may  be :  in  case  of  a  fire  in  the  room,  keep  the  head 
as  low  as  possible. 

If  a  rope  be  at  hand,  fasten  it  to  the  person  who  is  giving 
help,  that  he  may  be  succored,  if  he  venture  too  far.  Many 
deaths  happen  in  succession  in  cess-pools,  and  similar  cases,  foi 
want  of  this  precaution. 

It  is  hardly  needful  to  say,  do  not  try  to  breathe  the  air  of 
the  place  where  help  is  required.  Yet  many  persons  fail,  in 
consequence  of  forgetting  this  precaution.  If  the  temptation  to 
breathe  be  at  all  given  way  to,  the  necessiiy  increases,  and  the 
helper  himself  is  greatly  endangered.  Resist  the  tendency,  and 
retreat  in  time. 

Be  careful  to  commence  giving  aid  with  the  lungs /a//  of  air, 


^ 


208  WHH.    JfALK^S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THK    MIIJJON. 

not  empty  ;  for  tlio  preparation  consists  chiefly  in  laying  up  fol 
the  time,  in  the  lungs,  a  store  of  that  pure  air  which  is  so  essen 
tial  to  Jife. 


81 1 .  Tkundar  Storras. — 'J'he  safest  situation  during  a  thunder- 
storm is  the  c^'JJar ;  for  when  a  person  is  below  the  surface  of 
the  earth,  the  lightning  must  strike  it  before  it  can  reach  him, 
and  will  probably  be  expended  on  it.  Dr.  Franklin  advisea 
persons  apprehensive  of  lightning  to  sit  in  the  middle  of  a  room, 
not  under  a  metal  lustre,  or  any  other  conductor,  and  to  place 
their  feet  upon  aru^ther  chair.  It  will  be  still  safer,  he  adds,  to 
lay  two  or  three  b(;ds  r;r  mattresses  in  the  middle  of  the  room, 
and  to  place  the  chairs  upon  them.  A  hamruock  suspended 
with  silk  cords  would  be  an  improvement  on  this  apparatus. 
Persons  out  of  doors  should  avoid  trees,  &c. 

The  distance  of  a  tliunder-storm  and  its  consequent  danger 
can  easily  be  estimated.  As  light  travels  at  the  rate  of  192,000 
miles  in  a  second  of  time,  its  ellects  may  be  considered  as  in- 
stantaneous within  any  moderate  distance.  »Sound  is  transmit- 
ted at  the  rate  of  only  1142  feCt  in  a  second.  By  observing, 
therefore,  the  time  which  intervenes  between  the  flash  of  light- 
ning and  the  thunder  which  accompanies  it,  a  \{^ry  near  calcu- 
lation may  be  made  of  its  distance. 

812.  Slroke  of  Lightning. — Tlirc^w  cold  water  upon  them  as 
soon  as  possible.  It  will  often  jestore  persons  struck  by  light- 
ning when  apparently  insensible,  or  even  dead. 

8Ki.  A  few  ConcfHC  liulcs  for  the  Recovery  of  PcrmuH  (jj>- 
l>ar(mlly  JJroyyrwd. — 'Ihe  body  on  being  taken  out  of  the  water, 
should  be  conveyed  to  ihe  nearest  house,  in,  the  [/rmUe.tt  manner 
jjOH.vhie  ;  the  wet  clothijs  must  be  removed,  and  the  body  well 
dried  with  a  towel ;  it  must  then  be  placed  on  a  mattresj,  laid 
on  a  table  of  proper  height  and  length.  Care  must  always  bo 
taken  to  lay  the  head  considerably  higher  than  the  extremities, 
and  to  i)la(;e  the  body  on  the  right  side.  The  lungs  should  be 
inflated  with  a  pair  of  bellows,  not  forcibly,  but  gradually,  so 
tts  to  imitate  the  action  of  respiratioti. 

Do  not  {)lace  the  l>ody  in  a  high  degree  of  heat;  (below  98 
degrees  (;f  Faln-eriheit's  sc/ile  is  the  best  temperature,)  clear  the 
apartment  of  all  supctrnumerary  persons,  and  let  th(i  windows 
and  doors  be  open,  to  admit  a  free  circulation  of  air. 


DOMKSTIC    KCONOMY,    KTC.  209 

Apply  friction,  afiar  the  lungs  have  been  expanded,  with  the 
hand  only,  or  with  a  little  oil  on  the  fingers. 

No  injiictions  are  necessary,  nor  emetics,  except  in  particular 
cases:  bleedng  is  also  a  doul>tful  remedy:  electricity,  m  ^ZKie- 
cioufi  hands^  may  prove  liiglily  beneficial. 

J^(jt  no  roiling  of*  the  body  l>e  used  with  a  view  of  emptying 
it  of  water ;  there  is  no  water  present,  or  scarcely  any.  The 
heart  being  overloaded  with  blood,  may  be  ^urst  by  this  inju- 
dieiouH  proceeding,  and  more  mischief  has  been  done  by  tossing 
and  roiling  the  body,  than  by  any  other  erroneous  treatment, 
]  lot  water,  in  bottles,  niay  !>«  aj»plied  to  the  ieet  and  ankles, 
as  soon  as  respiration  couimences  :  wh(;n  thcj  blood  b(5gins  to 
circulate,  heat  may  be  gradually  ificreased,  and  the  patient  re- 
moved to  a  warm  bed,  whc^re  he  must  be  carefully  watched  till 
the  action  of  the  heart  be  completely  restored. 

The  following  way  is  commended  by  those  who  have  Been  it 
irictl :  1.  Lose  no  time.  2.  Handle  the  body  gently.  8. 
OiiTVY  the  body  with  tlio  head  gently  raised,  and  never  hold  it 
u[)  by  the  fcjct.  4.  Send  for  medical  assistance  immediately, 
and  in  the  mean  time  act  as  follows:  1.  Strip  the  body,  rub 
it  dry  ;  then  rub  it  in  hot  bhinkets,  and  j)]aee  it  in  a  warm  bed 
in  a  warm  room.  2.  Cleanse  away  the  froth  und  mucus  from 
the  nose  and  mouth.  3.  Apply  wjirm  bricks,  botth^s,  bags  of 
Band,  &c.,  to  the  arm-pits,  between  the  thighs  and  the  soles  of 
the  feet.  4.  Rub  the  surface  of  the  })ody  with  the  hands  en- 
closed in  warm  dry  worsted  socks.  5.  If  f)ossible,  put  the 
])ody  into  a  warm  Vjath.  fJ.  To  restore  bn;atliing,  put  the  pipe 
of  a  common  bellows  in  one  nostril,  carefully  closing  the  other 
and  the  mouth;  at  the  same  time  drawing  downward,  and 
I^ushing  gently  backward,  tlie  uf)pcr  part  of  the  windpipe,  to 
allow  a  more  \'v(i{'.  admission  of  air;  blow  the  bellows  g(;ntly, 
in  order  to  inflate  the  lungs,  till  th(;  breast  be  raised  a  little; 
then  set  the  mouth  and  nostrils  ^vit(\^  and  j)ress  gently  on  the 
chest;  repeat  thin  until  signs  of  life  a[)pear.  When  the  pa 
tient  revives,  apply  smelling-salts  to  the  nose,  give  warm  wine 
or  brandy  and  water.  Cautionn. — 1.  Never  rub  the  body 
with  salt  or  spirits.  2.  Never  roll  the  body  on  casks.  3- 
Continue  the  remedies  for  twelve  hours  without  ceasing. 
M 


PAKT  V. 

MISTRESS— MOTHER— NURSE— AND  MAID. 

In  which  are  set  forth  the  prominent  Duties  of  each  department^ 
and  the  most  important  Rules  for  the  guidance  and  care  of  the 
Household, 

OF  THE  TABLE 

814.  The  taste  and  management  of  the  mistress  are  always 
displayed  in  the  general  conduct  of  the  table ;  for,  though  that 
department  of  the  household  be  not  always  under  her  direction, 
it  is  always  under  her  eye.  Its  management  involves  judgment 
in  expenditure,  respectability  of.  appearance,  and  the  comfort 
of  her  husband  as  well  as  of  those  who  partake  of  their  hospi- 
tality. Inattention  to  it  is  always  inexcusable,  and  should  be 
avoided  for  the  lady's  own  sake,  as  it  occasions  a  disagreeable 
degree  of  bustle,  and  evident  annoyance  to  herself,  which  is 
never  observable  in  a  well-regulated  establishment. 

Perhaps  there  are  few  occasions  on  which  the  respectability 
of  a  man  is  more  immediately  felt,  than  the  style  of  dinner  to 
which  he  may  accidentally  bring  home  a  visitor.  Every  one 
ought  to  live  according  to  his  circumstances,  and  the  meal  of 
the  tradesman  ought  not  to  emulate  the  entertainments  of  the 
higher  classes ;  but,  if  merely  two  or  three  dishes  be  well  seryed, 
with  the  proper  accompaniments,  the  table-linen  clean,  the 
small  sideboard  neatly  laid,  and  all  that  is  necessary  be  at  hand, 
the  expectation  of  both  the  husband  and  friend  will  be  gratified, 
because  no  interruption  of  the  domestic  arrangements  will  dis- 
turb their  social  intercourse. 

Should  there  be  only  a  joint  and  a  pudding,  they  should 


311 

always  be  served  up  separately ;  and  the  dishes,  however  small 
the  party,  should  always  form  two  courses.  Thus,  in  the  old 
fashioned  style  of  "  fish,  soup,  and  a  roast,"  the  soup  and  fish 
are  placed  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  table,  removed  by  the 
joint  with  vegetables  and  pastry ;  or,  should  the  company  con- 
sist of  eight  or  ten,  a  couple  or  more^of  side-dishes  in  the  first 
course,  with  game  and  a  pudding  in  the  second,  accompanied 
by  confectionary,  are  quite  sufficient. 

In  most  of  the  books  which  treat  of  cookery,  various  bills  of 
fare  are  given,  which  Ure  never  exactly  followed.  The  mistress 
should  give  a  moderate  number  of  those  dishes  which  are  most 
in  season.  The  cuts  which  are  inserted  in  some  of  those  lists, 
put  the  soup  in  the  middle  of  the  table — where  it  should  never 
be  placed.  For  a  small  party,  a  single  lamp  in  the  centre  is 
sufficient ;  but,  for  a  larger  number,  the  room  should  be  lighted 
with  lamps  hung  over  the  table,  and  the  centre  occupied  by  ^ 
plateau  of  glass  or  plate,  ornamented  with  flowers  or  figures. 

815.  Carefulness. — A  proper  quantity  of  household  articles 
should  always  be  allowed  for  daily  use.  Each  should  also  be 
kept  in  its  proper  place,  and  applied  to  its  proper  use.  Let 
all  repairs  be  done  as  soon  as  wanted,  remembering  the  old 
adage  of  "a  stitch  in  time;"  and  never,  if  possible,  defer  any 
necessary  household  concern  a  moment  beyond  the  time  when 
it  ought  to  be  attended  to. 

In  the  purchase  of  glass  and  crockery-ware,  either  the  most 
customary  patterns  should  be  chosen,  in  order  to  secure  their 
being  easily  matched,  when  broken ;  or,  if  a  scarce  design  be 
adopted,  an  extra  quantity  should  be  bought,  to  guard  against 
the  annoyance  of  the  set  being  spoiled  by  breakage — which,  in 
the  course  of  time,  must  be  expected  to  happen.  There  should 
likewise  be  plenty  of  common  dishes,  that  the  table-set  may  not 
be  used  for  putting  away  cold  meat,  &;c. 

The  cook  should  be  encouraged  to  be  careful  of  coals  and  cin- 
ders :  for  the  latter  there  is  a  new  contrivance  for  sifting,  without 
dispersing  the  dust,  by  means  of  a  covered  tin  bucket. 

Small  coal,  wetted,  makes  the  strongest  fire  for  the  back  of 
the  grate,  but  must  remain  untouched  till  it  cakes.  Cinders, 
lightly  wetted,  give  a  great  degree  of  heat,  and  are  better  than 
coal,  for  furnaces,  ironing-stoves,  and  ovens. 

816.  Attention  to  little  things. — By  attention  to  little  things^ 
the  neat  appearance  of  a  house  may  be  secured,  and  time  and 


212  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million 

labor  saved.  For  instance,  when  you  are  sewing,  carefully  de« 
posit  your  bits  of  thread,  &;c.,  in  a  little  basket  or  box,  instead 
of  throwing  them  on  the  floor.  And  again :  set  your  chairs 
out  a  little  from  the  wall,  instead  of  putting  them  close  to  it, 
which  would  not  only  rub  the  paint  from  the  chairs,  but  would 
soon  deface  the  beauty -©f  the  wall-paper.  These  appear  like 
trifling,  things — but  nothing  is  too  trifling  to  demand  our  atten- 
tion, when  we  are  endeavoring  to  fulfil  the  duties  of  our  sphere. 


817.  Cheerfulness, — Does  it  seem  singular  that  cheerfulness 
is  placed  among  the  requisites  for  good  house-keeping  ?  But 
it  is  of  far  more  importance  than  you  would,  at  first  view, 
imagine.  What  matters  it  to  a  brother  or  husband,  if  the  house 
be  ever  so  neat,  or  the  meals  punctually  and  well  prepared,  if 
the  mistress  of  it  is  fretful  and  fault-finding — ever  discontented 
and  complaining.  The  outside  of  such  a  house  is  ever  the  most 
attractive  to  him,  and  any  and  every  excuse  will  be  made  for 
absenting  himself;  and  the  plea  of  business  or  engagements  will 
be  made  to  her  who  is  doomed  to  pass  her  hours  needlessly  in 
solitude. 


818.  Of  Economy  in  Expenditure, — Economy  should  be  the 
first  point  in  all  families,  whatever  be  their  circumstances.  A 
prudent  housekeeper  will  regulate  the  ordinary  expenses  of  a 
family,  according  to  the  annual  sum  allowed  for  housekeeping. 
By  this  means,  the  provision  will  be  uniformly  good,  and  it  will 
not  be  requisite  to  practise  meanness  on  many  occasions,  for 
the  sake  of  meeting  extra  expense  on  one. 

The  best  check  upon  outrunning  an  income  is  to  pay  bills 
weekly,  for  you  may  then  retrench  in  time.  This  practice  is 
likewise  a  salutary  check  upon  the  correctness  of  the  accounts 
themselves. 

To  young  beginners  in  housekeeping,  the  following  brief 
hints  on  domestic  economy^  in  the  management  of  a  moderate 
income,  may  perhaps  not  prove  unacceptable. 

A  bill  of  parcels  and  receipt  should  be  required,  even  if  the 
money  be  paid  at  the  time  of  purchase;  and,  to  avoid  mis- 
takes, let  the  goods  be  compared  with  these  when  brought 
home ;  or,  if  paid  or  at  future  periods,  a  bill  should  be  sent 
with  the  article,  and  regularly  filed  on  separate  files  for  each 
tradesman. 

An  inventory  of  furniture,  linen,  and  china  should  be  kept, 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  213 

and  the  things  examined  by  it  twice  a-year,  or  often er  if  there 
be  a  change  of  servants ;  the  articles  used  by  servants  snould 
be  intrusted  to  their  care,  with  a  list,  as  is  done  with  the  plate. 
In  articles  not  in  common  use,  such  as  spare  bedding,  tickets  of 
parchment,  numbered  and  specifying  to  what  they  belong, 
should  be  sewed  on  each  ;  and  minor  articles  in  daily  use,  such 
as  household  cloths  and  kitchen  requisites,  should  be  occasion- 
ally looked  to. 

819.  Books  and  Accounts, — Housekeeping  books,  with  printed 
forms  for  the  various  heads  of  expenditure,  and  the  several  arti- 
cles, are  used  in  many  families  ;  but  accounts  may  be  kept  with 
as  much  certainty  in  plain  books. 

820.  Servants. — In  the  hiring  of  Servants^  it  is  an  excellent 
plan  to  agree  to  increase  their  wages  annually  to  a  fixed  sum, 
where  it  should  stop,  and  to  recommend  that  a  portion  of  it 
should  be  regularly  placed  in  a  savings-bank.  An  incentive 
will  thus  be  offered  to  good  conduct ;  and  when  the  hoard  saved 
up  amounts  to  any  considerable  sum,  the  possessor  will  gene- 
rally feel  more  inclined  to  enlarge  than  to  expend  it. 

A.  kindly  feeling  of  indulgence  on  the  part  of  the  mistress 
towards  her  servants,  in  the  matter  of  petty  faults,  coupled 
with  good-natured  attention  to  their  daily  comforts,  and  occa- 
sional permission  to  visit  and  receive  a  few  of  their  near  friends, 
would  go  far  to  create  a  cordial  degree  of  attachment,  which 
must  be  ever  desirable  to  a  respectable  family,  and  cheaply 
purchased  by  such  consideration.  Mildness  of  language  will 
generally  be  met  by  respectful  language  on  the  part  of  a  ser- 
vant, and  of  itself  will  produce  a  saving  of  temper  at  least  to 
the  master  or  mistress.  Due  praise  will  mostly  be  found  a 
powerful  stimulus  to  good,  and  in  some  measure  a  preventive 
to  bad  conduct,  on  the  part  of  a  servant. 

Do  not  speak  harshly  or  imperatively  to  servants,  or  tell 
them  of  their  faults  in  the  presence  of  strangers  or  visitors;  but 
take  the  earliest  opportunity  of  reproving  them  after  your  com- 
pany have  left, 

821.  Store-room, — A  store-room  is  essential  for  the  custody 
of  articles  in  constant  use,  as  well  as  for  others  which  are  only 
occasionally  called  for.  These  should  be  at  hand  when  wanted, 
each  in  separate  drawers,  or  on  shelves  and  pegs,  all  under  the 


214  MRS.  halb's  rbcbipts  for  thh  million. 

lock  and  key  of  the  mistress,  and  never  be  given  out  to  the  ser- 
vants but  under  her  inspection. 

Pickles  and  preserves,  prepared  and  purchased  sauces,  and 
all  sorts  of  groceries,  should  be  there  stored ;  the  spices  pounded 
and  corked  up  in  small  bottles,  sugar  broken,  and  everything 
in  readiness  for  use.  Lemon-peel,  thyme,  parsley,  and  all  sorts 
of  sweet  herbs,  should  be  dried  and  grated  for  use  in  seasons  of 
plenty  ;  the  tops  of  tongues  saved,  and  dried,  for  grating  into 
omelets,  &c. ;  and  care  taken  that  nothing  be  wasted  that  can 
be  turned  to  good  account. 

Coarse  nets  suspended  in  the  store-room  are  very  useful  in 
preserving  the  finer  kinds  of  fruit,  lemons,  &c.,  which  are 
spoiled  if  allowed  to  touch.  When  lemons  and  oranges  are 
cheap,  a  proper  quantity  should  be  bought  and  prepared,  both 
for  preserving  the  juice,  and  keeping  the  peel  for  sweetmeats 
and  grating,  especially  by  those  who  live  in  the  country,  where 
they  cannot  always  be  had ;  and  they  are  perpetually  wanted 
in  cookery. 

*  822.  Sugar, — The  lowest-priced  and  coarsest  sugar  is  not  the 
cheapest  in  the  end,  as  it  is  heavy,  dirty,  and  of  a  very  inferior 
degree  of  sweetness ;  that  which  is  most  refined  is  the  sweet- 
est :  the  best  has  a  bright  and  gravelly  appearance.  East  India 
sugars  appear  finer  in  proportion  to  the  price;  but  they  do  not 
contain  so  much  sweetness  as  the  other  kinds.  Loaf  sugars 
should  be  chosen  as  fine  and  as  close  in  texture  as  possible,  ex- 
cept they  are  for  preserving,  when  the  coarse,  strong,  open  kind 
is  preferable. 

823.  Pepper. — The  finest  Cayenne  pepper  consists  of  pow- 
dered bird-pepper;  but,  as  this  is  of  a  bad  color,  it  is  often 
adulterated  to  heighten  the  color.  English  chilies,  dried  and 
pounded,  make  good  pepper. 

V/hite  pepper  is  inferior  to  black,  although  the  former  is 
sold  at  the  highest  price.  White  pepper  is  merely  black  pep- 
per deprived  of  its  outer  coating,  which  has  a  stimulating 
property  ;  so  that  white  pepper  is  much  weaker  than  black. 

824.  Cinnamon^  when  good,  is  rather  thin  and  pliable,  and 
ebout  the  substance  of  thick  paper,  of  yellowish-brown  color, 
sweetish  taste,  and  pleasant  odor :  that  which  is  hard,  thick, 
and  dark-colored,  should  be  rejected. 


MISTRESS^    MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  215 

825.  Articles  in  Season. — Some  weak-minded  persons  affect 
to  despise  articles  of  food  when  they  are  plentiful  and  cheap, 
not  knowing  that  such  is  the  time  when  the  articles  are  in  the 
greatest  perfection.  . 

Young  and  inexperienced  housekeepers  sometimes  incur  un- 
necessary expense  by  ordering  articles  of  food  when  they  are 
scarce,  dear,  and  hardly  come  into  season.  This  can  only  be 
prevented  by  attention  to  the  seasons  of  different  articles. 

826.  Every  Family  to  make  their  own  Sweet  Oil, — With  a 
small  hand-mill,  every  family  might  make  their  own  sweet  oil. 
This  may  easily  be  done,  by  grinding  or  beating  the  seeds  of 
white  poppies  into  a  paste,  then  boil  it  in  water,  and  skim  off 
the  oil  as  it  rises ;  one  bushel  of  seed  weighs  Mty  pounds,  and 
produces  two  gallons  of  oil.  Of  the  sweet  olive  oil  sold,  one- 
half  is  oil  of  poppies.  The  poppies  will  grow  in  any  garden ; 
it  is  the  large-head  white  poppy,  sold  by  apothecaries.  Large 
fields  are  sown  with  poppies  in  France  and  Flanders,  for  the 
purpose  of  expressing  oil  from  their  seed  for  food.  When  the 
seed  is  taken  out,  the  poppy  head  when  dried  is  boiled  to  an 
extract,  which  is  sold  at  two  shillings  per  ounce,  and  it  is  to  be 
preferred  to  opium,  which  now  sells  very  high.  Large  fortunes 
may  be  acquired  by  the  cultivation  of  poppies.  Women  and 
children  could  attend  to  the  cultivation  of  any  quantity  re- 
quired for  their  own  use,  in  making  oil,  and  it  would  be  found 
a  profitable  branch  of  industry,  when  engaged  in  on  a  large 
scale. 


827.  Candles  and  Larnps. — In  purchasmg  wax,  spermaceti, 
or  composition  candles  for  company^  thei-e  v»'ill  be  a  saving  by 
proportioning  the  length  and  size  of  the  lights  to  the  probable 
duration  of  the  party.  Mixed  wax  and  spermaceti  make  the 
best  candles,  of  which  a  long  four  (that  is,  four  to  the  pound,) 
will  last  ten  hours;  a.  short  six  will  burn  six  hours ;  a  i\r€e^ 
twelve  hours. 

K.  moderate-sized  French  table-lamp,  will  consume  a  quarter 
)f  a  pint  of  oil  in  twelve  hours  and  a  half. 

A  common  japanned  kitchen-lamp,  with  one  burner,  will 
consume  one-eighth  of  a  pint  of  oil  in  nine  hours. 


828.   Neati-foot   Oil, — Boil  the  feet  for  several  hours,  as  for 
making  stock  for  jelly  ;  skim  off  the  oily  matter  from  time  to 


216  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

time  as  it  rises,  and,  when  it  ceases  to  come  up,  pour  off  the 
water;  next  day,  take  off  the  cake  of  fat  and  oil  which  will  be 
found  on  the  top  ;  boil  it  and  the  oil  before  obtained,  together 
with  a  little  cold  water ;  let  it  cool ;  pour  off  the  water,  and 
bottle  the  oil  for  use.  This  oil  being  perfectly  pure,  and  free 
from  smell,  may  be  used  with  the  French  lights  in  a  sick-room. 

829.  Soap, — Soap,  as  well  as  candles,  is  improved  by  keep- 
ing. Buy  your  store  for  the  winter  as  early  as  September, 
and  cut  the  large  bars  of  soap  into  j^ieces,  to  dry.  It  goes  far- 
ther, and  is  better. 


830.  Coals. — Lay  in  your  stock  of  coal  and  wood,  during 
summer,  when  fuel  of  all  kinds  is  cheapest. 

831.  Good  method  of  maJcing  Fires. — In  managing  your  fires 
during  the  day,  first  lay  on  a  shovelful  of  the  dust  and  ashes 
from  under  the  grate,  then  a  few  coals,  then  more  ashes,  and 
afterwards  a  few  more  coals,  and  thus  proceed  till  your  grate 
is  properly  filled,  placing  a  few  round  coals  in  front.  You  will 
find  that  the  ashes  retain  the  heat  better  than  coals  alone ;  you 
will  have  less  smoke,  a  pleasant  fire,  and  a  very  little  waste 
left  at  night. 


832.  Kitchen- Pa  per. — Whited-brown  and  common  writing 
is  much  used  :  it  should  be  bought  by  the  ream  or  half-ream, 
which  will  be  much  cheaper  than  by  the  quire.  White  paper 
only  should  be  used  for  singeing,  and  for  covering  meat,  pas- 
try, &;c. 


833.  Economy  in  Tinder. — The  very  high  price  of  paper,  at 
present,  renders  the  saving  of  even  the  smallest  quantity  of 
linen  or  cotton  rags  of  consequence,  as  they  sell  very  dear. 
Trifling  as  it  may  be  thought,  yet  it  will  be  found  that  a  con- 
siderable quantity  of  rags  may  be  saved  in  a  family,  by  using 
as  tinder  for  lighting  matches,  the  contents  of  the  common 
snuffers,  collected  in  the  course  of  the  evening. 


834.  To  prevent  Accidents^  from  leaving  a  poJcer  in  the  fire. — • 
The  following  invention  is  equally  simple  and  secure: — Imme- 
diately above  that  square  part  of  the  poker,  by  blacksmiths 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  217 

called  "  the  bit,"  let  a  small  cross  of  iron,  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  each  way,  be  welded  in. 

The  good  consequences  of  this  simple  contrivance  will  be — 

1st.  If  the  poker,  by  the  fire  giving  way,  should  slip  out,  it 
will  probably  catch  on  the  edge  of  the  fender. 

2d.  If  it  should  not,  it  cannot  injure  the  hearth  or  carpet,  as 
the  hot  part  of  the  poker  wHl  be  borne  up  some  inches. 

3d.  The  poker  cannot  be  run  into  the  fire  further  than  the 
bit,  which,  in  regard  to  a  polished  poker,  is  also  of  some  con- 
sequence. 


ON   THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  INFANTS,   YOUNG 
CHILDREN,  AND  THE  SICK. 

835.  In  a  previous  work — "Mrs.  Hale's  New  Cook  Book/' 
— I  gave  many  receipts  for  preparing  food  for  invalids  and 
children  ;  but  something  more  is  needed.  Young  mothers 
and  nurses,  who  are  often  inexperienced,  will,  I  am  sure,  thank 
me  for  taking  pains  to  procure,  from  the  most  eminent  authori- 
ties, the  best  directions  and  recipes  to  aid  them  in  the  discharge 
of  their  arduous  and  most  important  duties.  The  preservation 
of  life,  and  the  formation  of  the  physical  constitution,  as  well 
as  the  moral  development  of  the  young  beings  committed  by 
Divine  Providence  to  the  especial  care  of  woman,  render  it 
one  of  the  best  accomplishments  of  our  sex,  to  learn  all  we  can 
respecting  the  high  vocation  whereunto  we  are  called,  viz.,  that 
of  conservators  of  humanity. 

836.  Of  young  Infants, — Immediately  on  the  birth  of  the 
child,  it  should  be  received  into  soft  fine  flannel,  suflicient  com- 
pletely to  envelop  or  wrap  round  the  body,  in  which,  with  the 
mouth  and  nose  scarcely  exposed,  it  should  repose  at  least  an 
hour.  The  child  may  then  be  washed  with  tepid  w^ater,  tenderly 
and  cautiously,  yet  speedily  made  dry  with  soft  linen  cloth. 
Afterwards  let  it  be  expeditiously  dressed,  and  put  into  a  warm 
bed,  and,  during  the  first  week  or  fortnight,  exposed  as  little 
as  possible  to  cold  air  ;  how  long  this  caution  may  be  necessary, 
will  depend  on  the  season  of  the  year,  or  the  temperature  of 
the  atmosphere.  By  strictly  adhering  to  this  mode  of  mana- 
ging a  new-born  infant,  it  will  not  suffer  from  catarrh,  cough, 
difficulty  of  breathing,  diarrhea,  sore  eyes,  or  stoppage  in  the 
head. 


21 S  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million 

Children  are  frequently  placed  under  the  care  of  a  nurse, 
who,  from  her  experience,  is  supposed  qualified  for  the  impor- 
tant trust ;  but  it  often  happens,  either  from  her  obstinacy  or 
self-importance,  that  the  most  judicious  plan  of  treatment  re- 
commended by  the  attending  physician,  is  defeated. 

At  this  period  the  mother  is  called  on,  by  religious  and 
moral  obligation,  as  well  as  by  the  ties  of  natural  affection,  to 
suckle  her  infant :  no  doubt  could  be  entertained  of  her  imme- 
diate assent  to  so  powerful  an  impulse,  if  uninfluenced  by  her 
friends  or  relatives.  It  cannot  be  denied,  that  she  may  be  dis- 
qualified for  the  office  by  various  maladies,  by  an  incipient 
phthisis,  by  a  scorbutic  or  scrofulous  taint,  by  hysterical  or 
nervous  affections,  &;c.  However,  the  fitness  or  unfitness  of 
the  mother  for  this  endearing  office,  should  be  determined  by 
the  attending  physician.  There  are  many  instances  recorded  of 
women  who  had  been  extremely  delicate  and  sickly  previous  to 
their  first  confinement,  becoming  afterwards  healthy  and  robust. 
On  the  contrary,  there  are  several  histories  of  other  women, 
who  previously  had  enjoyed  good  health,  suffering  from  coun- 
teracting the  regular  process  of  nature.  The  flow  of  the  milk 
being  checked,  undue  determinations  have  taken  place  to  the 
chest  or  head,  and  in  some  cases  proved  fatal. 

In  the  bowels  of  children  at  the  time  of  their  birth,  there  is 
an  accumulation  of  what  is  called  ''  the  meconium."  For  what- 
ever purpose  it  was  intended  before  the  birth  of  the  child,  it 
would  become  injurious  were  it  afterwards  suffered  to  remain. 
Nature  has  provided  the  means  for  its  removal,  by  giving  to 
the  new  milk  an  aperient  quality.  Therefore  it  is  advisable  to 
wait,  even  to  the  third  day,  for  the  appearance  of  the  milk, 
rather  than  attempt  to  remove  the  meconium  by  castor  oil,  or 
any  other  mild  aperient  medicine.  The  coats  of  the  child's 
stomach  and  bowels  are  so  extremely  tender  and  irritable,  that 
the  mildest  purgative  will  give  pain,  and  disorder  the  health 
of  the  infant.  By  waiting  for  the  milk,  relief  is  obtained  by 
the  means  nature  has  provided,  without  the  slightest  incon- 
venience. 


837.  Clothing, — The  clothing  for  children  cannot  be  too  sim- 
ple :  it  should  be  so  formed  as  to  admit  of  being  easily  and 
quickly  changed,  free  from  all  bandages  or  pins,  and  secured 
only  by  tape.  Shoes  or  stockings  may  be  dispensed  with,  until 
the  child  begins  to  use  its  legs,  as  they  keeo  the  feet  wet  and 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  219 

unpleasant,  unless  changed  every  hour.     The  child  left  to  itself, 
will  soon  begin  to  enjoy  the  use  and  freedom  of  its  limbs. 

838.  Food. — The  proper  food  for  children  is  a  subject  of 
more  importance.  That  which  nature  has  provided  is  the  milk 
of  its  parent;  but,  when  this  is  lacking,  a  preparation  foiled 
of  cow's  milk  and  water,  with  a  little  loaf  sugar,  in  the  follow* 
ing  proportions,  supplies  the  desideratum : — Take  of  fresh 
cow's  milk,  one  table-spoonful;  hot  water,  two  table-spoonfuls; 
loaf  sugar,  as  much  as  may  be  agreeable.  Such  nourishment 
will  alone  be  sufficient  for  its  support,  until  the  end  of  the  first 
three  months.  At  this  period,  it  may  require  a  small  portion 
of  light  animal  food,  of  which,  how  to  select  the  most  nutritious, 
to  regulate  the  quantity,  and  to  administer  it,  after  proper  inter- 
vals, must  depend  on  the  experience  of  the  nurse.  Experience 
is  often  superseded  by  convenience :  if  the  child  cries,  the  nurse 
attributes  it  to  a  want  of  food,  and,  by  her  agency,  it  is  fed 
almost  every  hour,  both  night  and  day.  It  is  seldom  that  a 
child  cries  from  abstinence,  if  it  be  healthy  and  free  from  pain. 
In  the  infantile  state,  the  powers  of  the  digestive  organs  are 
much  weaker  than  at  a  more  advanced  period  of  life;  and  there- 
fore, although  the  food  is  more  simple,  it  requires  an  interval 
of  some  hours  to  convert  it  into  chyle :  if  this  process  be  inter- 
rupted by  frequent  feeding,  the  chyle  will  be  crude*  and  pass 
off  without  affording  due  nourishment  to  the  child.  Sickness 
in  children  arises  from  the  quality  or  quantity  of  their  food,  un- 
duly administered.  The  food  for  children  should  be  light  and 
simple — gruel  alone,  or  mixed  with  cow's  milk;  mutton  broth, 
or  beef  tea ;  stale  bread,  rusks,  or  biscuits,  boiled  in  water  to 
a  proper  consistence,  and  a  little  sugar  added.  The  great  mor- 
tality of  children  in  large  towns,  may  be  attributed  to  the 
poverty  of  their  parents,  who  cannot  purchase  the  necessary 
food  or  clothing,  nor  find  leisure  to  attend  to  cleanliness,  air, 
and  exercise,  so  indispensably  necessary  to  the  well-being  of 
their  offspring.  In  the  wealthy  ranks  of  society,  these  means 
are  easily  obtained ;  and  in  the  management  of  their  children, 
we  have  only  to  dread  the  abuse  of  these  advantages.  Happy 
would  it  be  both  for  rich  and  poor,  if  the  superfluities  of  the  one 
could  be  transferred  for  the  benefit  of  the  other. 

When  six  months  old,  a  child  may  be  fed  every  four  hours, 
when  awake.  Nothing  can  be  more  injurious  to  health  than 
too  frequent  or  irregular  meals.     Children,  if  left  to  themselves, 


220  MRS.  bale's  eecbipts  for  the  million. 

soon   acquire  the  habit  of  passing  through  the  night  without 
being  fed. 


839.  Weaning  of  children  should  not  take  place  under  six 
months,  if  the  mother  be  in  health,  nor  be  deferred  beyond  nine 
mdtiths.  It  cannot  be  too  frequently  impressed  on  the  mind 
of  the  parent,  that  the  future  health  and  strength  of  her  child 
depend  on  a  due  supply  of  the  food  which  nature  has  provided. 
Regarding  her  own  health,  the  chances  are  that  it  will  be  im- 
proved— at  all  events,  it  is  incumbent  on  her  to  make  the  ex- 
periment ;  if  her  strength  falls  off,  she  may  at  any  time  retire 
from  the  effort,  and  engage  a  wet-nurse. 

This  fostei^'parent  should  not  be  more  than  thirty  years  of 
age,  nor  should  her  milk  be  more  than  three  months  old.  She 
should  be  in  health,  free  from  scorbutic  or  scrofulous  taints, 
from  cutaneous  scurf,  or  eruptions,  perfectly  clean  in  her  per- 
son, and  extremely  neat  in  her  management  of  whatever  con-* 
cerns  the  child.  She  must  be  sober  and  temperate  :  her  diet 
should  consist  of  a  due  proportion  of  bread,  fresh  meat,  and 
vegetables ;  her  drink,  tea,  chocolate,  and  milk  and  water ; 
but  on  no  consideration  either  wine  or  any  other  spirituous 
liquors.  These,  if  drank  by  the  nurse,  will  prove  injurious  to 
the  child. 


840.  Proper  Medicines  for  Infants, — Nature  has  not  only- 
provided  food  for  infants,  but  likewise  given  to  them  a  constitu- 
tion capable  of  correcting  those  slight  deviations  from  health, 
to  which  alone  they  are  liable  when  properly  nursed.  This 
has  induced  many  to  assert  that  medicines  are  not  required  in 
the  nursery  :  perhaps  the  assertion  might  be  correct,  if  children 
were  suffered  to  remain  in  a  state  of  nature  :  the  further  they 
are  removed  from  it,  the  evils  they  have  to  contend  with  bear 
a  proportionate  increase.  As  most  of  their  complaints  arise 
from  a  vvant  of  attention  to  their  food,  to  air,  and  exercise,  by 
a  prompt  and  skilful  use  of  medicine,  these  complaints  may  be 
removed ;  therefore,  it  is  not  the  use  but  the  abuse  of  medicine 
that  should  be  avoided.  If  a  child  be  tormented  by  a  pin  run- 
ning into  the  flesh,  no  one  would  contend  against  the  removal 
of  the  pin. 

The  diseases  to  which  children  are  liable,  are  sore  eyes,  sore 
ears,  sore  head,  scald  head,  sickness  and  vomiting,  thrush,  red 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  S^l 

gum,  yellow  gum,  pain  in  the  bowels,  diarrhea,  dentition,  chil- 
blains, rickets,  worms,  scrofula,  catarrh,  cough,  measles,  dec. 


841.  Sore  Eyes  frequently  occur  on  the  second  or  third  day 
after  the  birth,  occasioned  by  too  early  an  exposure  of  the  child 
to  a  cold  atmosphere :  the  eyelids  swell,  become  closed,  and 
discharge  a  purulent  matter.  It  may  be  relieved  by  fomenting 
the  eyelids  with  equal  parts  of  lime  water  and  elder-flower 
water.  Dip  some  fine  old  linen  cloth  into  this  mixture,  mode- 
rately warmed,  and  apply  it  to  the  eyelids.  This  is  a  mild 
astringent  application :  if  the  swellings  should  not  be  reduced 
by  it,  the  following,  which  is  more  astringent,  will  probably 
succeed ;  Take  of  white  vitriol,  two  .grains ;  rose-water,  two 
ounces  ;  mix  them  together.  Should  it  be  necessary,  the  quan- 
tity of  white  vitriol  may  be  increased. 

842.  Sore  Ears, — Excoriations  of  the  skin  frequently  happen 
either  behind  the  ears,  in  the  folds  of  the  skin,  on  the  neck,  in 
the  groins,  or  wherever  the  folds  of  the  skin,  come  in  contact. 
Wash  the  skin  morning  and  evening  with  cold  water,  make  it 
perfectly  dry  with  a  fine  linen  cloth,  then  shake  on  lightly  the 
following  powder :  Take  white  ceruse,  one  part ;  wheaten 
starch,  in  flour,  three  parts ;  mix  them  together.  Or,  take 
Goulard's  extract,  French  brandy,  of  each,  one  drachm ;  rose- 
water,  four  ounces.  Mix  them  together,  and  apply  it  with  soft 
linen  cloth  to  the  excoriations  of  the  skin. 

The  following  liniment  may  be  relied  on :  Take  acetate  of 
lead,  one  scruple ;  rose-water,  half  an  ounce ;  melted  beef  mar- 
row, one  ounce.  Rub  the  acetate  of  lead  in  the  rose-water,  until 
they  are  intimately  mixed,  then  melt  the  marrow  over  a  gentle 
heat ;  afterwards  pour  the  mixture  upon  the  marrow  by  little 
and  little,  taking  care  that  each  addition  be  incorporated  with 
the  marrow,  so  as  to  form  an  uniform  mass.  This  may  be  ap- 
plied with  a  camels'-hair  pencil. 

843.  Sore  Head, — This  complaint  appears  first  on  the  fore- 
head, in  large  white  spots  or  scabs,  which,  if  neglected,  soon 
spread  over  the  whole  surface  of  the  head.  It  is  sometimes 
dry,  at  others  moist,  with  a  thin,  watery  discharge.  It  is  named 
the  crusta  lactea,  or  milky  crust.  There  are  two  methods  of 
treating  it.  Nurses  encourage  the  discharge  by  applying  cab 
bage  leaves,  oil-cloth,  <Sz;c. ;  this  is  by  no  means  nec^3ssary  ;  it 


222  MKS.    bale's    RECEIPTi    FOR    THB    MILLIOIT. 

makes  the  head  offensive,  and  the  appearance  of  the  child  dis- 
gusting. It  is  much  better  to  cure  it  as  soon  as  possible,  by 
washing  the  scabs  night  and  morning  with  equal  parts  of  brandy 
and  water  ;  then  lay  on  the  following  ointment :  Take,  olive 
oil,  five  drachms ;  white  wax,  two  drachms ;  calcined  zinc,  one 
drachm.  Melt  the  oil  and  wax  together,  then  add  the  zinc  by 
degrees,  and  keep  stirring  it  until  they  are  intimately  mixed. 


844.  Scald  Head  is  totally  unlike  the  preceding  disease: 
brown-colored  scabs  appear  on  the  crown  of  the  head,  which  dis 
charge  a  glutinous  matter,  and  unite  the  hairs,  so  as  to  prevent 
their  being  separated  with   a  comb  :  these  scabs  continue  to 
spread  until  they  occupy  the  whole  of  the  scalp. 

Keep  the  hair  cut  as  close  as  possible,  wash  the  head  with  a 
strong  solution  of  soap  in  water,  night  and  morning ;  as  soon  as 
it  can  be  done,  instead  of  cutting  the  hair  with  scissors,  let  it  be 
shaved  close  once  a  day. 

Every  one  has  a  remedy  for  this  complaint ;  perhaps  the  fol- 
lowing ointment  will  be  found  one  of  the  most  effective  :  Take 
Barbadoes  tar,  one  ounce ;  the  dust  of  the  lycoperdon,  or  puff 
fungus,  one  drachm.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  rub  in  a 
part  of  it  to  the  roots  of  the  hair,  after  washing  the  head  with 
the  soap  and  water.  By  steadily  persevering  in  these  means, 
and  giving  an  occasional  purge,  the  cure  will  soon  be  accom 
plished. 


845.  Sickness  and  Vomiting, — Soon  after  the  birth,  children 
are  frequently  annoyed  by  these  symptoms :  they  are  occa- 
sioned by  the  indiscreet  conduct  of  the  nurses,  who  are  apt  to 
give  either  improper  food  or  medicine.  At  this  early  period, 
as  before  remarked,  the  stomach  is  incapable  of  digesting  any 
other  food  than  the  milk  of  its  mother;  consequently,  what- 
ever is  forced  into  it,  remains  there  undigested,  u«itil,  by  a  con- 
vulsive effort,  it  is  thrown  off  by  vomiting.  So  long  as  it  re- 
mains in  the  stomach,  the  child  is  restless,  and  in  other  respects 
indisposed.  It  may  be  relieved  by  a  tea-spoonful  of  castor-oil, 
to  be  repeated,  until  one  or  two  motions  are  occasioned. 

Children  who  are  dry  nursed  are  most  subject  to  sickness 
and  vomiting  ;  the  natural  remedy  is  the  breast  of  a  healthy 
woman.  Without  this  relief,  gripings  and  diarrhea  frequently 
come  on  and  prove  fatal. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  223 

Children  so  circumstanced,  may  be  relieved  by  the  following 
emetic : 

Take  of  ipecacuanha,  two  drachms;  boiling  water,  four 
ounces.  Let  them  stand  together  until  the  water  grows  cold, 
then  strain  off  the  liquor.  To  one  ounce  of  the  liquor,  add 
eight  drops  of  antimonial  wine.  Dose,  two  tea-spoonfuls  every 
half  hour,  until  it  excites  vomiting. 


846.  The  Thrush^  or  sore  mouth,  is  a  complaint  very  pain- 
ful, and,  if  neglected,  fatal  to  children.  When  it  first  comes  on, 
it  resembles  small  pieces  of  curd  lying  loose  upon  the  tongue ; 
it  gradually  spreads  itself  over  the  inside  of  the  mouth,  but  af- 
terwards rapidly  advances  to  the  throat,  stomach,  and  bowels. 
Therefore,  when  the  white  specks  appear,  proper  means  should 
be  instantly  employed  to  remove  them,  or  to  suspend  their 
progress.     If  the  child  be  costive,  give  the  following  aperient : 

Take  of  calcined  magnesia,  two  scruples ;  common  mint 
water,  two  ounces ;  mix  them  together.  The  dose,  a  dessert- 
spoonful every  half  hour,  until  it  operates.  Or,  take  of  manna, 
one  ounce ;  senna  leaves,  one  drachm ;  common  mint-water, 
four  ounces.  Boil  them  together,  until  the  manna  be  dissolved, 
then  strain  off  the  liquor.  Dose,  two  drachms  every  half  hour, 
until  two  or  more  motions  are  occasioned. 

For  cleaning  the  mouth,  take  equal  parts  of  borax  and  white 
sugar ;  rub  them  together  into  a  fine  powder.  Of  this  put  a 
small  quantity  into  the  child's  mouth,  which  will  be  distributed 
to  every  part  by  the  motion  of  its  tongue.  Repeat  this  appli- 
cation three  or  four  times  a  day :  if  used  early,  it  will  k^ep  the 
mouth  free  from  white  specks,  and  remove  the  complaint  in 
a  few  days. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  it  should  be  neglected,  and  suffered  to 
extend  to  the  stomach  and  bowels^  gentle  emetics  ought  to  be 
employed,  such  as  the  following  antimonial  emetic :  Take  of 
antimonial  wine,  forty  drops ;  mint-water,  two  ounces.  Mix 
them  together.  Dose,  a  dessert- spoonful  every  half  hour,  until 
it  excites  vomiting. 

This  disease  rarely  occurs  in  children,  who  take  no  other  food 
but  the  milk  of  the  mother,  or  foster-parent.  It  is  so  far  conta- 
gious, that  if  a  healthy  child  be  put  to  the  breast  of  a  woman, 
who  is  suckling  another  child,  having  the  thrush,  it  will  contract 
this  complaint. 


224  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million 

847.  Red  Gum  requires  no  farther  attention  than  keeping  the 
bowels  gently  open,  and  avoiding  an  exposure  to  cold  air.  It 
is  symptomatic  of  healthy  action,  and  ought  not  to  be  checked. 


848.  Infantile  Jaundice, — The  skin  of  new-born  infants  is 
sometimes  tinged  with  bile,  and  gives  the  appearance  of  jaun- 
dice ;  by  some  it  has  been  named  the  yellow  gum.  It  seems 
to  be  occasioned  by  the  sudden  change  in  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  immediately  on  the  birth,  by  which  an  increased  flow  of 
blood  is  conveyed  to  the  liver,  and  consequently  an  increased 
secretion  of  bile  follows,'  w^hich  from  various  causes  may  be 
prevented  from  passing  off  freely  into  the  intestines.  It  is  at- 
tended with  no  danger,  and  is  generally  removed  by  mild  pur- 
gatives. 

The  hare-lip,  fraenum  linguae,  or  tongue-tied,  requires  surgi- 
cal aid. 


849.  Pain  in  the  Bowels  xn2iY  happen  with  or  without  diar- 
rhea, and  is  often  produced  by  improper  food,  or  exposure  to 
cold  air.  The  symptoms  are  frequent  fits  of  crying,  drawing 
up  the  knees  towards  the  bowels,  which  are  hard  and  tense  to 
the  touch,  accompanied  either  with  an  obstinate  costiveness,  or 
thin,  watery,  and  frequent  evacuations,  slimy,  sour,  and  of  a 
green  color.  This  complaint  is  oftentimes  relieved  by  the  fol- 
"lowing  powders  :  Take  Turkey  rhubarb,  in  very  fine  powder, 
calcined  magnesia,  of  each,  twelve  grains  ;  compound  powder 
of  ipecacuanha,  four  grains.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  di- 
vide them  into  six  doses :  one  to  be  given  night  and  morning, 
to  a  child  under  three  months ;  above  that  age,  the  dose  should 
be  increased. 

The  health  and  diet  of  the  mother,  or  nurse,  should  be  strictly 
attended  to.  In  some  cases  the  pain  is  extremely  acute,  and 
the  agony  of  the  child  is  known  by  its  cries.  Whenever  this 
happens,  the  following  mixture  may  be  given  :  Take  of  Turkey 
rhubarb,  in  fine  powder,  twelve  grains;  magnesia,  eight  grains; 
tincture  of  rhubarb,  one  drachm ;  syrup  of  poppies,  two 
drachms  ;  simple  mint- water,  an  ounce  and  a  half.  Mix  them 
together.  Dose,  if  within  the  first  or  second  month,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  every  fourth  hour.  The  phial  should  be  shaken  be- 
fore the  medicine  is  poured  out. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  225 

850.  Other  remedies  for  the  Colic  in  Infants, — A  great  varietj" 
of  cordials,  spices,  and  opiates,  has  been  recommended,  and 
frequently  used,  to  relieve  the  pain  and  expel  the  M^ind.  They 
may  sometimes  answer  the  purpose,  especially  m  sudden  fits 
of  pain  in  the  stomach,  from  cold  or  any  other  accidental  cause. 
At  all  times,  they  should  be  sufficiently  diluted  with  water, 
cautiously  given,  and  seldcm  repeated.  When  the  effects  of 
these  medicines  go  off,  the  pain  returns ;  therefore  it  is  not  a 
desirable  mode  of  obtaining  relief.  Of  the  cordials,  Geneva, 
mixed  with  water,  is  the  least  objectionable ;  being  impregnated 
with  the  essential  oil  of  juniper-bemes,  it  is  an  excellent  and 
safe  carminative.  However,  these  warm  medicines  are  by  no 
means  to  be  relied  on  for  the  removal  of  the  cause  of  this 
malady,  their  effect  being  merely  temporary  :  such  as  Godfrey's 
cordial,  and  other  nostrums — being  compounds  of  opium,  spi- 
ces, and  brandy.  Opium,  when  judiciously  administered,  is 
an  invaluable  remedy ;  the  dose  of  it  should  be  most  accurately 
proportioned  to  the  age  of  the  patient,  and  urgency  of  the  symp- 
toms, otherwise  it  may  become  a  poison;  and,  therefore,  should 
never  be  given  to  children,  unless  under  the  direction  of  the 
most  skilful  in  the  profession.  Few  nurseries  are  without  a 
medicine  of  this  kind ;  it  quiets  the  pain  of  the  infant,  inddces 
sleep,  and  leaves  the  nurse  to  her  repose.  Children  under  this 
treatment  become  languid,  pallid,  incapable  of  exertion,  and,  at 
length,  rickety. 

The  following  anodyne  mixture  will  generally  relieve  the 
griping  pains  of  diarrhea : — Take  of  prepared  chalk,  and  gum- 
arabic,  each  one  drachm  ;  syrup  of  white  poppies,  three  drachms ; 
Geneva,  two  drachms ;  water,  four  ounces.  Mix  them  together. 
Dose,  a  dessert-spoonful  after  each  motion. 

In  bowel-complaints,  chalk  has  been  objected  to,  as  too  power- 
ful an  astringent  in  checking  diarrhea  suddenly :  this  may  be 
obviated  by  giving  it  only  after  each  motion.  When  the  bowels 
have  been  previously  acted  on,  either  by  the  rhubarb  powders, 
or  by  the  antimonial  emetic,  the  chalk  mixture  is  a  never-failing 
remedy.  It  may  be  given  with  or  \\ithout  opium,  according 
to  the  urgency  of  the  symptoms. 

The  following  medicine,  by  exciting  a  determination  to  the 
skin,  effectually  relieves  the  sufferings  of  the  child : — Take  ipe- 
cacuanha, in  coarse  powder,  two  drachms ;  boiling  water,  four 
ounces.  When  cold,  strain  off  the  liquor  through  a  fine  piece 
of  linen  cloth  :  then  add  to  three  ounces  of  this  liquor — d'  Gpo- 
15 


226  MRS.    HALE*S    BECEIPTS    FOR    THE  J«Eli.LION, 

neva,  three  drachms ;   syrup   of  white  poppies,  two  drachms. 
Dose,  a  dessert-spoonful  every  fourth  hour. 

When  this  state  of  the  bowels  is  followed  by  convulsions, 
the  lower  extremities,  or  the  whole  body,  should  be  immersed 
in  a  warm  bath.  During  the  preparation  of  a  bath,  flannel 
dipped  in  warm  water  and  wrung  dry,  may  be  applied  to  tht 
extremities.  Leeches  and  blisters,  under  skilful  directions,  will 
subdue  the  violence  of  the  symptoms. 


851.  Convulsions — Are  generally  symptomatic,  and,  for  the 
most  part,  in  children,  occasioned  by  the  growth  of  their  teeth: 
therefore,  the  gums  should  be  carefully  examined,  to  ascertain 
whether  they  arise  from  this  cause ;  if  so,  the  lancet  should  be 
immediately  and  freely  used,  to  divide  the  gum  down  to  the 
teeth.  This  operation  is  not  painful,  nor  in  the  least  degree 
hazardous,  therefore  ought  not  to  be  delayed. 


852.  Dentition, — There  is  no  period  in  infancy  that  requires 
more  skill  and  attention,  than  that  which  passes  from  the  first 
movement  of  the  teeth  in  their  sockets,  to  their  subsequent  ad- 
vance through  the  gums.  At  the  birth  of  the  child,  the  teeth 
are  lodged  within  the  jaw-bones,  and  enveloped  by  a  membrane 
or  bag,  which  is  distended  as  the  teeth  enlarge  and  press  for- 
w^ard,  frequently  attended  with  pain,  fever,  diarrhea,  and  con- 
vulsions. These  symptoms  first  appear  towards  the  end  of 
*the  third  month,  when  the  child  is  said  to  be  breeding  its  teeth : 
they  arise  from  the  first  enlarirement  of  the  teeth  in  their  sock- 
ets, and  subside  as  soon  as  they  pass  above  the  jaw.  Between 
the  sixth  and  ninth  month,  the  teeth  as  they  rise,  press  upon 
the  gums,  when  the  same  train  of  symptoms  take  place.  Some 
children  suffer  very  little  pain  during  this  process ;  others  suflfer 
most  severely  :  this  depends  chiefly  on  the  nerves  being  more 
or  less  irritable.  When  the  child  preserves  its  appetite  and 
cheerfulness,  and  is  free  Irom  i^\kiY^  no  medicine  can  be  re- 
quired, except  what  may  be  necessary  to  obviate  costiveness. 
This  should  be  carefully  attended  to,  as  nothing  tends  more 
efiectualiy  to  relieve  or  prevent  the  symptoms  of  dentition, 
than  a  free  discharge  from  the  bowels. 

An  increased  secretion  of  saliva  marks  the  first  advance  of 
the  teeth,  followed,  in  irritable  habits,  by  diarrhea,  i^\'Qi\  thii-st, 
and  convulsions.  The  use  of  the  gum-lancet  siiould  not  be 
neglected,  whenever  the  symptoms  are  urgent.     The  parents 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  227 

frequently  object  to  this  mode  of  relief,  conceiving  it  to  be  a 
painful  operation.  As  a  proof  of  the  contrary,  children  that 
have  once  been  relieved  by  it,  will  eagerly  press  their  gums 
upon  the  lancet.  If  the  tooth  should  not  appear  after  the  first 
use  of  the  lancet,  the  incision  may  be  frequently  repeated. 

The  symptoms  may  be  relieved  by  the  following  emetic: — 
Take  of  tartar-emetic,  one  grain ;  dissolve  it  in  two  ounces  of 
distilled  water.  Dose,  two  tea-spoonfuls  every  half  hour,  until 
it  excites  vomiting. 

Tiiis  remedy  will  relax  the  tension  of  the  gums,  and  lessen 
the  force  of  the  fever. 

If  the  habit  of  the  child  should  be  costive,  the  mildest  purga- 
tives should  be  employed,  to  occasion  two  or  more  motions 
daily — such  as  manna,  dissolved  in  common  mint-water;  or 
senna-tea ;  or  the  following  : — Take  of  senna  leaves,  one  drachm ; 
the  yellow  rind  of  the  lemon,  eight  grains :  boil  them  in  two 
ounces  of  water;  strain  off  the  liquor,  when  cold;  and  give  a 
dessert-spoonful  as  a  dose  for  children  three  or  four  months  old. 
Or,  take  manna  and  fresh-drawn  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  of  each, 
one  ounce;  syrup  of  roses,  two  ounces:  mix  them  together. 
Dose,  a  dessert-spoonful. 


853.  The  Croup — At  its  commencement  has  the  appearance 
of  common  catarrh,  but  speedily  assumes  its  peculiar  character, 
which  is  marked  by  hoarseness,  with  a  shrillness  and  ringing 
sound  in  coughing  and  breathing  ;  so  shrill  is  the  noise  made  by 
the  child,  that  it  resembles  the  sound  of  air  forced  through  a  tube 
of  brass.  This  inflammation,  seated  in  the  membrane  which 
lines  the  windpipe,  is. attended  with  stricture,  difficult  respiration, 
cough,  quick  pulse,  heat,  and  a  flushed  countenance. 

This  disease  comes  on  suddenly,  and  is  extremely  rapid  in 
its  progress ;  therefore,  vigorous  measures  must  be  instantly 
adopted.  Give  an  emetic,  then  apply  a  blister  across  the  throat, 
and  keep  the  bowels  open  with  laxative  injections. 

854.  Cure  for  Croup, — Dr.  Fisher,  of  Boston,  relates  in  a  late 
number  of  the  Medical  Journal^  a  case  in  which  a  severe  attack 
of  croup  was  cured  by  the  application  of  sponge,  wrung  out  of 
hot  water,  to  the  throat,  together  with  water  treatment,  which 
he  describes  as  follows  : — 

''Soon  after  making  the  first  application  of  sponges  to  the 
throat,  I  wrapped  the  child  in  a  wollen  blanket,  wrung  out  in 


228  MRS.    bale's    RECEIFTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

warm  water,  as  a  substitute  for  a  warm  bath,  and  gave  twenty 
drops  of  the  wine  of  antimony  in  a  little  sweetened  water,  which 
was  swallowed  with  difficulty.  I  persevered  in  the  application 
of  the  hot,  moist  sponges  for  an  hour,  when  the  child  was  so 
much  relieved  that  I  ventured  to  leave  it. 

"  These  applications  were  continued  through  the  night,  and  in 
the  morning  the  child  was  well." 

It  will  never  do  to  trifle  with  this  terrible  disease.  The  quicker 
the  remedies  are  applied,  the  better.  Instead  of  antimony,  we 
would  recommend  small  quantities  of  alum  water,  given *every 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  until  the  child  vomits. 


855.  Rickets — Are,  for  the  most  part,  induced  by  improper  food 
and  bad  nursing.  Their  approach  is  marked  by  a  sickly,  pallid 
countenance,  cough,  and  difficult  respiration.  The  bones  of  the 
legs  and  arms  lose  their  firmness,  and  become  more  or  less 
crooked  ;  the  bones  of  the  head  do  not  unite,  and  the  spine  be- 
comes distorted.  At  its  first  appearance  it  may  be  successfully 
counteracted  by  a  strict  attention  to  cleanliness  in  every  thing 
that  concerns  the  child,  by  exercise  in  the  open  air,  by  cold 
bathing,  by  friction  of  the  limbs  night  and  morning,  and  by  a 
light,  nutritious  diet.  Before  the  use  of  the  bath,  the  bowels 
should  be  cleared  by  the  following  aperient  powder  : — 

Take  of  Rhubarb,  in  fine  powder,  six  grains ;  calcined  magne- 
sia, three  grains  ;  common  mint-water,  six  drachms..  Mix  them 
together. 

During  the  use  of  the  cold  bath,  either  Peruvian  bark  or  steel 
may  be  employed  to  strengthen  the  child :  such  as. 

The  precipitate  of  the  sulphate  of  iron,  three  grains  ;  syrup 
of  cinnamon,  a  tea-spoonful.  When  mixed,  to  be  taken  three 
times  a-day.  Or,  take  of  the  resinous  extract  of  bark,  one 
drachm  ;  the  syrup  of  cinnamon,  seven  drachms.  Mix  them 
together.     The  dose,  a  tea-spoonful,  three  times  a-day 


856.  Scrofula^ — Although  it  has  been  considered  as  an  hered- 
itary disease,  may  be  induced  in  a  child,  whose  parents  have 
no  such  taint,  by  a  neglect  of  proper  food,  air  and  exercise. 
On  the  contrary,  when  the  taint  does  exist  in  the  parent,  the 
offspring  may  pass  through  life  with  the  enjoyment  of  tolerable 
health,  by  a  strict  attention  to  those  means- which  are  known  to 
invigorate  the  body.  Of  preventives,  there  are  none  so  effica- 
cious as  sea  air,  sea  bathing,  and  the  internal  use  of  the  sea  wa^ 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE   AND    MAID.  229 

ter,  m  sufficient  quantity  to  act  on  the  bowels,  and  the  local  ap- 
plication  of  it  to  the  glands  which  are  enlarged.  Indeed,  the 
children  of  diseased  parents  should  reside  on  the  coast,  in  order 
to  have  the  full  benefit  of  these  advantages.  Friction  should 
be  applied  generally  on  the  surface  of  the  body,  with  the  hand 
covered  with  a  flannel  glove,  night  and  morning.  Eood  of  easy 
digestion  is  to  be  preferred,  such  as,  shell-fish,  game,  poultry, 
beef  or  mutton.  Bajjc  and  steel,  as'  medicines,  may  be  occa- 
sionally administered  with  good  effect.  This  disease,  which  bids 
defiance  to  the  regular  physician,  cannot  with  propriety  be 
placed  on  the  list  of  casualties,  or  sudden  seizures. 


857.  Worms. — There  are  three  species  of  worms  which  in- 
fest the  intestines  :  namely,  the  flat  worm,  or  taenia ;  the  long, 
round  worm,  or  lumbrici ;  the  short,  round  worm,  or  ascarides. 
The  taenia  is  of  rare .  occurrence  when  compared  with  the  lum- 
brici or  ascarides,  but  more  difficult  to  remove.  Full  doses  of 
sulphate  of  iron,  with  occasional  active  doses  of  calomel,  force 
them  to  retire.  The  lumbrici  are  destroyed  by  repeated  doses 
of  calomel  and  scammony.  The  ascarides,  being  found  in  the 
lowest  portion  of  the  intestines,  are  easily  removed  by  injec- 
tions of  lime-water,  or  a  solution  of  aloes. 

Paients  who  would  preserve  their  children  from  worms,  ought 
to  allow  them  plenty  of  exercise  in  the  open  air ; .  to  take  care 
that  their  food  be  wholesome  and  sufficiently  solid ;  and,  as  far 
as  possible,  to  prevent  their  eating  raw  herbs,  roots,  or  green 
trashy  fruits.  It  will  not  be  amiss  to  allow  a  child  who  is  subject 
to  worms,  a  glass  of  red  wine  after  meals  ;  as  every  thing  that 
braces  and  strengthens  the  stomach,  is  good  both  for  preventing 
and  expelling  these  vermin.  In  order  to  prevent  any  mistake 
of  what  I  have  here  said  in  favor  of  solid  food,  it  may  be  proper 
to  observe,  that  I  only  made  use  of  that  word  in  opposition  to 
slops  of  every  kind ;  not  to  advise  parents  to  cram  their  chil^ 
dren  with  meat,  two  or  three  times  a-day.  This  should  only  be 
allowed  at  dinner,  and  in  moderate  quantities,  or  it  would  cre- 
ate, instead  of  preventing,  worms ;  for  there  is  no  substance  in 
nature  which  generates  so  many  worms  as  the  flesh  of  animals, 
when  in  a  state  of  putrefaction.  Meat,  therefore,  at  the  prin 
cipal  meal,  should  always  be  accompanied  with  plenty  of  good 
bread,  and  young,  tender,  and  well-boiled  vegetables ;  especially 
in  the  spring,  when  these  are  poured  forth  from  the  bosom  of 
the  earth  in  such  profusion.     They  promote  the  end  in  view,  by 


230  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

keeping  the  body  moderately  open,  without  the  aid  of  artificial 
physic.  The  ripe  fruits  of  autumn  produce  the  same  effect; 
and,  from  their  cooling,  antiputrescent  qualifies,  are  as  whole- 
some as  the  unripe  are  pernicious.  I  also  very  earnestly  con- 
jure parents  not  to  take  the  alarm  at  every  imaginary  symptom 
of  w^orms,  and  dil-ectly  run  for  drugs  to  the  quack,  or  apothe- 
cary. They  should  first  try  the  good  effects  of  proper  diet  and 
regimen,  and  never  have"^  recourse  to  medicines  till  after  une- 
quivocal proofs  of  the  nature  of  the  corftplaint. 

Honey  and  milk  are  very  good  for  worms  ;  so  is  strong  saltT 
water;  likewise,  powdered  sage  and  molasses  taken  freely. 


858.  Quinsy — Is  the  common  inflammatory  sore  throat, 
attended  by  a  sense  of  heat  and  fulness  in  the  throat,  by  diffi- 
cult deglutition,  generally  preceded  by  shivering,  with  a  sense 
of  coldness*  On  inspection,  the  tonsils  appear  red  and  enlarged. 
These  symptoms  continuing  to  increase,  the  patient  is  threatened 
with  sulibcation,  the  tonsils  suppurate,  when,  by  a  spontaneous 
bursting  of  the  abscess,  relief  instantly  follows.  It  often  hap- 
pens that  th^  abscess  does  not  give  way  so  soon  as  expected, 
when  the  puncture  of  a  lancet  puts  an  end  to  the  alarming  suf- 
ferings of  the  patient.  In  some  cases,  the  quantity  of  matter 
contained  in  the  tumor  is  very  considerable,  and  instances  have 
occurred,  when,  from  the  sudden  bursting  of  the  tumor,  the 
patient  being  in  a  horizontal  position,  sufibcation  has 'followed, 
•^om  the  matter  falling  into  the  lungs. 

To  guard  against  these  evils,  an  emetic  of  ipecacuanha  should 
be  administered,  and  a  blister  applied  to  the  neck.  As  soon 
as  the  effect  of  the  emetic  has  ceased,  and  the  stomach  will 
receive  it,  give  the  following  aperient  mixture : — Take  of  tar- 
tarized  kali,  three  drachms;  infusion  of  senna,  two  ounces; 
tincture  of  senna,  two  drachms.     Mix  them  together. 

If  blisters  are  objected  to,  a  piece  of  fine  flannel,  moistened 
with  the  compound  spirit  of  ammonia,  may  be  placed  round 
the  neck.  Gargles  are  to  be  used  in  ^Y^ry  stage  of  this  disease ; 
at  first,  they  should  be  mildly  detergent,  as  the  following : — 
Take  of  barley-water,  six  ounces  and  a  half;  honey  of  roses, 
one  ounce;  tinctureof  myrrh,  and  vinegar,  of  each,  two  drachms. 
Mix  them  together,  and  cleanse  the  mouth  and  throat  with 
some  of  the  gargle  from  time  to  time. 

When  the  violence  of  the  symptoms  begins  to  subside,  a 
©harper  gargle  becomes  necessary  ;  for  this  purpose  the  follow- 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSB    AND    MAID.  231 

ir.g  IS  r<  commended : — Take  of  infusion  of  red  roses,  seven 
ounces ;  honey  of  roses,  one  ounce ;  diluted  sulphuric  acid, 
twenty  drops.     Mfx  them  together. 

Throughout  the  course  of  this  disease,  keep  the  bowels  open 
with  mild  purgatives  or  laxative  injections.  When  the  swelling 
of  the  tonsil^comes  on  rapidly,  send  instantly  for  a  surgeon. 

859.  Whooping  Cough. — This  is  a  violent,  convulsive  cough, 
a'-tended  at  first  with  slight  febrile  symptoms.  Its  shortest 
'  aration  is  three  weeks ;   during  this  time,  the  symptoms  may 

»e  rendered  milder,  or  more  aggravated,  by  the  mode  of  treat- 

nent. 

During  the  first  three  or  four  weeks,  keep  the  child  or  patient 
in  an  uniform  degree  of  temperature ;  if  possible,  never  below 
G4  degrees  of  Fahrenheit's  scale.  The  diet  should  be  light, 
chiefly  bread,  milk,  and  vegetables  with  butter.  Rice  or  Indian 
puddings,  with  plenty  of  molasses,  are  good  food  for  children 
in  this  disease.  \^  the  cough  is  vo^ry  violent,  and  the  phlegm 
hard  in  the  throat,  a  gentle  emetic  of  ipecacuanha,  or  some  pre- 
paration of  antimony,  should  be  given  ew^ry  second  or  third 
morning,  to  clear  the  stomach  from  the  mucus  which,  in  this 
cough,  is  constantly  secreted.  By  these  means,  the  violence 
of  the  disease  will  soon  be  overcome ;  whereas,  by  an  exposure 
to  cold  air,  and  neglecting  all  precautions,  you  may  aggravate  and 
continue  the  cough  for  months.  In  the  summer,  change  of  air 
is  one  of  the  best  remedies ;  and  be  sure  to  avoid  whatever  has 
a  tendency  to  irritate  the  throat,  or  excite  the  action  of  the 
heart. '  In  this,  as  in  every  other  disease,  the  state  of  the  bowels 
should  be  carefully  attended  to.  .A  mild  aperient  is  sometimes 
necessary. 


860.  Colds. — The  best  2)reventive  of  colds,  is  to  wash  your 
children  every  day  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  if  they  are  strong 
enough  to  bear  it ;  if  not,  add  a  little  warm  water,  and  rub  the 
skin  dry.  This  keeps  the  pores  open.  If  they  do  take  cold, 
give  them  a  warm  bath  as  soon  as  possible;  if  that  is  not  con- 
venient, bathe  the  feet  and  hands,  and  wash  the  body  all  over 
in  warm  water;  then  give  a  cup  of  warm  tea,  and  cover  the 
patient  in  bed. 


861. — If  a  Sore  Throat  follow,  take  a  tumbler  of  molasses 
and  water,  half-and-half,  when  going  to  bed ;  and  rub  the  throat 


232  MRS.    HALE's    receipts    for    the    MILLIOljr. 

with  a  mixture  of  sweet  or  goose-oil  and  spirits  of  turpentine ; 
then  wear  flannel  round  it. 


862.  Canker^  or  Sovq  Mouth, — Steep  blackberry-leaves,  sweet- 
en with  honey,  sprinkle  in  a  little  burnt  alum,  and  wash  the 
mouth  often  with  this  decoction.  # 


863.  Cutaneous  Eruptions  in  Children, — Children,  while  on 
the  breast,  are  seldom  free  from  eruptions  of  one  kind  or  other. 
These,  however,  are  not  often  dangerous,  and  ought  never  to 
be  dried  up  but  with  the  greatest  caution.  They  tend  to  free 
the  bodies  of  infants  from  hurtful  humors,  which,  if  retained, 
might  produce  fatal  disorders.  '  The  eruptions  of  children  are 
chiefly  owing  to  improper  food  and  neglect  of  cleanliness.  If  a 
child  be  stuffed  at  all  hours  with  food  that  its  stomach  is  not 
able  to  digest,  such  food  not  being  properly  assimilated,  instead 
of  nourishing  the  body,  fills  it  with  gross  humors.  These  must 
either  break  out  in  form  of  eruptions  upon  the  skin,  or  remain 
in  the  body,  and  occasion  fevers  and  other  internal  disorders. 

Eruptions  are  the  effect  of  improper  food,  or  want  of  cleanli- 
ness :  a  proper  attention  to  these  alone  will  generally  be  sufli- 
cient  to  remove  them.  If  this  should  not  be  the  case,  some 
drying  medicines  will  be  necessary.  When  they  are  applied, 
the  body  ought  at  the  same  time  to  be  kept  open,  and  cold  is 
carefully  to  be  avoided.  We  know  no  medicine  that  is  more 
'"feafe  for  drying  up  cutaneous  eruptions  than  sulphur,  provided 
it  be  prudently  used.  A  little  of  the  flour  of  sulphur  may  be 
mixed  with  fresh  butter,  oil,  or  hog's  lard,  and  the  parts  affected 
frequently  touched  with  it. 

The  most  obstinate  of  all  the  eruptions  incident  to  children 
are,  the  tinea  capitis^  or  scabbed  head,  and  chilblains.  The 
scabbed  head  is  often  exceedingly  difficult  to  cure,  and  some- 
times, indeed,  the  cure  proves  worse  than  the  disease.  I  have 
frequently  known  children  seized  with  internal  disorders,  of 
which  they  died  soon  after  their  scabbed  heads  had  been  healed 
by  the  application  of  drying  medicines.  The  cure  ought  always 
first  to  be  attempted  by  keeping  the  head  very  clean,  cutting 
off  the  hair,  combing  and  brushing  away  the  scabs,  <Sz;c.  If  this 
is  not  sufficient,  let  the  head  be  shaved  once  a-week,  washed 
daily  with  yellow  soap,  and  gently  anointed  with  a  liniment 
made  of  train-oil,  eight  ounces,  red  precipitate,  in  fine  powder, 
one   drachm.     And   if   there   be   proud   flesh,   it  should    be 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  233 

touched  with  a  bit  of  blue  vitriol,  or  sprinkled  with  a  little  burnt 
alum.  While  these  things  are  doing,  the  patient  must  be  con- 
fined to  a  regular  light  diet,  the  body  should  be  kept  gently 
open,  and  cold,  as  far  as  possible,  ought  to  be  avoided.  To 
prevent  any  bad  consequences  irom  stopping  this  discharge,  it 
will  be  proper,  especially  in  children  of  a  gross  habit,  to  make 
an  issue  in  the  neck  or  arm,  which  may  be  kept  open  till  the 
patient  becomes  more  strong,  and  the  constitution  be  somewhat 
mended. 


864.  Wounded  Feet. — When  a  nail  or  pin  has  been  run  into 
the  foot,  instantly  bind  on  a  rind  of  salt  pork ;  if  the  foot  swell, 
bathe  it  in  a  strong  decoction  of  wormwood,  then  bind  on 
another  rind  of  pork,  and  keep  quiet  till  the  wound  is  well. 
The  lockjaw  is  often  caused  by  such  wounds,  if  neglected. 


865.  For  a  Bruise  or  Sprain. — Bathe  the  part  in  cold  water, 
till  you  can  get  ready  a  decoction  of  wormwood.  This  is  one 
of  the  best  remedies  for  sprains  and  bruises.  When  the  worm- 
wood is  fresh  gathered,  pound  the  leaves  and  wet  them  either 
with  water  or  vinegar,  and  bind  them  on  the  bruise  ;  when  the 
herb  is  dry,  put  it  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  a  short  time, 
then  bathe  the  bruise  and  bind  on  the  herb. 

Always  keep  cotton  wool,  scraped  lint,  and  wormwood  on 
hand. 


866.  Far-ache  in  Children, — The  ear-ache  is  usually  caused 
by  a  sudden  cold.  Steam  the  head  over  hot  herbs,  bathe  the  feet, 
and  put  into  the  ear  cotton  wool  wet  with  sweet  oil  and 
paregoric. 


867.  To  make  Artificial  Sea  Water,  for  bathing  Children,-^ 
Take  common  sea  salt,  two  pounds ;  bitter  purging  salt,  two 
ounces ,  magnesia  earth,  half  an  ounce ;  dissolve  all  in  river 
water,  six  gallons.  These  are  the  exact  proportions  and  con- 
tents of  sea  water,  from  an  accurate  analyzation. 


868.  Another  method  of  making  Sea  Water. — Take  common 
salt,  half  an  ounce ;  rain,  or  river  water,  pure,  a  pint ;  spirit  of 
8ea  salt,  twenty  drops.     Mix  it. 


2Si  KBS.    bale's    KECXirTS    FOK    THE    MILLION. 

869.  Valuable  concise  Rules  for  presei-ving  Health  in  Winter, 
— Keep  the  feet  from  wet,  and  the  head  well  defended  when  iu 
bed ;  avoid  too  plentiful  meals  ;  drink  moderately  warm  and 
generous,  but  not  iDflaming  liquors  ;  go  not  abroad  without 
breakfast.  Shun  the  night  air  •as  you  would  the  plague;  and 
let  your  houses  be  kept  from  damps  by  warm  fires.  By 
observing  these  few  and  simple  rules,  better  health  may  be  ex- 
pected than  from  the  use  of  the  most  powerful  medicines. 


870.  Avoid ^  as  much  as  possible^  living  near  Church-yards.-^ 
The  putrid  emanations  arising  from  church-yards  are  very  dan- 
gerous ;  and  parish-churches,  in  which  many  corpses  are  inter- 
red, become  impregnated  with  an  air  so  corrupted,  especially 
in  spring,  when  the  ground  begins  to  grow  warm,  that  it  is  pru- 
dent to  avoid  this  evil  as  much  as  possible,  as  it  may  be,  and, 
in  some  cases,  has  been,  one  of  the  chief  sources  of  putrid  fe- 
vers which  are  so  prevalent  at  that  season. 


8T1.  Cautions  in  visiting  Sick  Booms, — Do  not  venture  into 
a  sick  room  if  you  are  in  a  violent  perspiration ;  for  the  mo- 
ment your  body  becomes  cold,  it  is  in  a  state  likely  to  absorb 
the  infection  ;  nor  visit  a  sick  person,  (if  the  complaint  be  6f  a 
contagious  nature;)  with  an  empty  stomachy  nor  swallow  your 
saliva.  Jn  attending  a  sick  person,  place  yourself  where  the  air 
"passes  from  the  door  or  window,  to  the  bed  of  the  invalid,  not 
between  the  invalid  and  the  fire,  as  the  heat  of  the  fire  will 
draw  the  infectious  vapor  in  that  direction,  and  you  would  run 
much  danger  from  breathing  in  it. 


872.  Syncope^  or  Fainting. — When  fainting  comes  on  from 
loss  of  blood,  inanition,  or  sudden  emotions  of  the  mind,  the 
patient  should  Vje  placed  in  a  horizontal  position,  with  the  head 
gently  raised.  Volatile  salts  should  be  applied  to  the  nose,  and 
when  the  patient  is  sufl[iciently  recovered,  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
warm  cordial  medicine  should  be  administered. 


873.  Preventive  of  Autumnal  Rheumatisms, — For  the  sake 
of  bright  and  polished  stoves,  do  not,  when  the  weather  is  cold, 
refrain  from  making  fires.  There  is  not  a  more  useful  docu- 
ment for  health  to  the  inhabitants  of  this  climate,  than  "follow 
your  feelings." 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  235 

874.  To  promote  Sleep, — No  fire,  candle,  rus^.j-light,  oi  lamp, 
shoald  be  kept  burning,  during  the  nigtit,  in  a  bed-room  ;  for  it 
not  only  vitiates  the  air,  but  disturbs  the  nerves  of  the  child. 
Keep  the  bed-chamber  well  ventilated — this  greatly  promotes 
healthful  rest. 


875.    Useful  Properties  of  Celandine, — The  juice  of  this  plant 
cures  tetters  and  ring- worms,  destroys  warts,  and  cures  the  itch. 


876.  Singularly  useful  Properties  of  Garlic. — The  smell  of 
garlic,  which  is  formidable  to  many  ladies,  is,  perhaps,  the 
most  infallible  remedy  in  the  world  against  the  vapors,  and  all 
the  nervous  disorders  to  which  women  are  subject.  Of  this 
(says  St.  Pierre)  1  have  had  repeated  experience. 

877.  The  Usefulness  of  two  common  Plants. — Every  plant  in 
the  corn-field  possesses  virtues  particularly  adapted  to  the  mal- 
adies incident  to  the  condition  of  the  laboring  man.  The  poppy 
cures  the  pleurisy,  procures  sleep,  stops  hemorrhages,  and  spit- 
ting of  blood.  Poppy  seeds  form  an  emulsion  similar  to  that 
from  almonds  in  every  respect,  w^hen  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner. They  also  yield,  by  expression,  fine  salad  oil,  like  that 
from  Florence.  The  blue-bottle  is  diuretic,  vulnerary,  cordial, 
and  cooling;  an  antidote  to  the  stings  of  venomous  insects,  and 
a  remedy  for  inflammation  of  the  eyes. 


QUALIFICATIONS  OF  A  GOOD  NURSE. 

878.  Good  Temper. — An  even  temper  is  among  the  principal 
qualifications,  if  not  the  most  desirable  one,  for  a  good  nurse; 
and  without  this  gentleness  and  a  kind  manner,  she  must  be 
considered  deficient. 


879.  Firmness. — Next  in  importance  to  good  temper,  are 
firmness  and  decision  of  character,  the  exercise  of  which  is 
frequently,  or  rather  absolutely  indispensable,  in  the  manage- 
ment of  the  sick. 


880.  Discrimination. — This  talent  enables  the  nurse  to  dis- 
tinguish  between  circumstances  which,  to  an  unobserving  per- 
son, appear  nearly  allied  to  each  other,  but  where  there  is,  in 


236  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

reality,  an  important  difference.  It  is  only  or  generally  ao 
quired  by  experience  an^  observation,  and  requires  good  sense 
as  its  foundation  and  support.  It  is  the  faculty  of  right  judg- 
ment. 


881.  Self-denial. — The  business  of  taking  care  of  the  sick, 
if  rightly  attended  to,  requires  a  devotion  to  the  interests  and 
wants  of  the  patient,  which  oan  only  be  given  by  the  good 
nurse,  who  can  willingly,  and  from  her  heart,  practise  the 
heavenly  precepts  of  doing  as  she  would  be  done  by,  and  deny- 
ing herself  any  indulgences  that  interfere  with  her  duties. 


882.  General  Intelligence, — Another  important  qualification 
of  a  good  nurse,  is  such  knowledge  of  reading,  and  subjects  of 
general  interest,  as  make  her  able  to  interest  and  amuse  her 
patient  during  the  weary  hours  of  slow  recovery,  or  desponding 
intervals  of  intermitting  diseases.  * 


883.  Abstinence  from  improper  habits, — The  habit  of  using 
snuff  in  any  manner — smoking — sipping  intoxicating  liquors — - 
taking  opium — or  indulging  in  any  improper  and  disagreeable 
habit  of  actions  or  expressions,  should  be  carefully  avoided  by 
those  who  hold  the  responsible  and  important  station  of  nurses 
of  the  sick. 


884.  Cleanliness. — This  is  a  cardinal  virtue ;  and  no  woman 
can  be  a  good  nurse  who  is  careless  in  her  own  apparel,  and 
slatternly  in  her  habits.  In  the  preparation  of  food  for  the  sick, 
the  most  scrupulous  neatness  should  be  observed. 


885.  Industry^  Economy y  and  Good  Housewifery, — All  three 
of  these  qualifications  are  essential,  and  usually  associated  in 
the  same  person ;  but,  the  exercise  of  qualities  is  necessary  to 
their  improvement — and  a  nurse  who  has  proved  herself  com- 
petent, is  most  worthy  of  being  trusted. 


886.  Prudence  and  Piety, — The  principles  of  true  discretion, 
or  prudence  of  character,  are  based  on  the  Christian  religion, 
as  are  all  the  moral  virtues.  The  nurse  must  be  religious,  or 
she  will  rarely  be  discreet ;  and  the  opportunities  constantly 
afforded  her  of  influencing  the  mind  and  heart  of  her  patient, 


NURSE   AND   MAID.  23*^ 

render  her  station  one  of  great  trust  and  responsibility.     A 
good  nurse  is  a  woman  that  deserves  honor  as  weU  as  reward. 

887.  Rules  for  the  Nurse, — 1.  Keep  the  patient's  room  quiet, 
well-aired,  and  clean  as  possible. 

2.  Never  excite  disagreeable  mental  emotions  in  the  sick,  by 
telling  sad  stories  and  melancholy  news ;  nor  allow  the  presence 
of  unpleasant  persons  or  objects. 

3.  Never  whisper,  nor  seem  to  be  telling  what  the  sick  are 
not  permitted  to  hear. 

4.  Administer  to  the  necessities  of  the  invalid,  promptly  and 
kindly ;  but  do  not  worry  him  with  questions  and  constant 
attentions,  when  these  are  not  needed. 

5.  Never  disturb  the  quiet  sleep  of  the  patient,  even  to  give 
medicine,  unless  peremptorily  charged  to  do  so  by  the  phy- 
sician. A  refreshing  sleep  is  often  better  than  medicine,  for 
the  sick ;  but  do  not  sleep  yourself,  and  allow  the  suffering  one 
tx)  lie  awake,  and  needing  your  care. 


888.  Administering  Medicine. — There  are  certain  rules,  if 
observed  in  giving  medicine,  that  will  render  the  duty  less 
disagreeable  to  the  nurse,  by  making  it  more  tolerable  to  the 
patient. 

1st.  Select  the  most  agreeable  and  suitable  ingredient  in 
which  it  is  to  be  exhibited. 

2d.  Take  as  small  a  quantity  of  this  as  can  possibly  be  made 
to  answer  the  purpose  of  mixing. 

3d.  If  it  be  disagreeable  to  the  taste,  prepare  the  mouth  for 
its  reception  by  holding  in,  and  rinsing  it  with  some  acid,  as 
strong  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  something  of  the  kind. 

4th.  Never  mix  the  medicine  within  sight  or  hearing  of  the 
patient. 

5th.  Let  it  be  prepared  without  her  knowledge ;  and  insist 
upon  its  being  taken  immediately  upon  being  presented,  for  the 
longer  her  mind  is  permitted  to  dwell  upon  it,  the  more  abhor- 
rent it  will  become. 

Gth.  Endeavor  to  destroy  the  taste  and  smell  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, by  any  appropriate  means,  when  it  has  not  been  done  by 
the  apothecary  or  physician. 

7th.  Let  the  mouth  be  well  rinsed  with  the  acid  after  taking 
it,  and  let  a  swallow  or  two  of  lemonade,  or  some  other  admi* 
Bible  drink,  be  taken. 


238  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

889.  Plasters  and  Poultices — Mustard  Plasters, — Take  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  bread  crumbs  finely  rubbed,  add  mustard  in 
proportion  to  the  required  strength  ;  form  a  poultice  of  the 
proper  consistency,  by  adding  vinegar  or  water.  Dr.  Wood 
thinks  water  preferable,  as  he  is  of  the  opinion  that  vinegar  de- 
stroys an  essential  property  of  the  mustard.  Mustard  employed 
for  this  purpose  should  be  whole  grain,  fresh  as  can  be  procured, 
and  bruised  or  mashed  in  a  mortar,  or  by  any  other  convenient 
means.  When  mustard  cannot  be  procured,  horse  radish  leaves 
may  be  substituted ;  they  must  be  rolled  with  a  rolling-pin,  to 
mash  and  make  soft  the  hard  stems,  and  withered  by  pouring 
over  them  a  little  scalding  w^ater. 

After  they  have  been  applied,  the  feet  must  be  frequently  ex. 
amined  to  see  that  they  do  not  get  cold.  Often  more  harm 
than  good  is  done  by  the  nurse  neglecting  this  part  of  her  duty- 
Burdock  and  cabbage  leaves  are  frequently  directed  to  be  ap- 
plied to  the  feet ;  they  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  and 
require  the  same  attention. 

890.  S^iice  Plaster, — Pulverized  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  Cay- 
enne pepper,  half  an  ounce  each ;  mix,  and  add  flour  and  wine 
of  galls,  or  diluted  spirits,  to  form  this  plaster ;  lay  it  hot  on 
the  region  of  the  stomach.     It  is  excellent  for  pains  and  spasms. 

891.  Aluw.  Cataplasm. —  Take  any  quantity  of  the  white  of 
eggs ;  agitate  it  with  a  large  lump  of  alum,  till  it  be  coagulated. 

892.  Cataplasm  of  common  Salt, — Take  crumbs  of  bread,  and 
linseed  meal,  of  each  equal  parts ;  water,  saturated  with  salt,  a 
sufficient  quantity  to  give  it  a  proper  consistency. 

This  puultice  may  be  applied  to  the  indolent  swellings  of  the 
glands,  in  scrofulous  habits,  w^here  the  patient  is  deprived  of 
the  benefit  of  the  sea  air  and  water.  A  constant  use  of  it  will 
frequently  occasion  great  inflammation  of  the  skin,  requiring 
a  suspension  of  its  use  for  a  few  days;  but  as  soon  as  the 
inflammation  subsides,  it  should  be  repeated.  By  the  use  of 
this  poultice,  strumous  humors,  and  scrofulous  enlargements, 
of  a  chronic  naiure,  have  been  totally  dispersed. 


893.  Cerate  of  Cuntharides. — Take  of  spermaceti  ointment, 
six  drachms ;  cantharides,  in  fine  powder,  one  drachm.  Mix 
them  together. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID,  239 

This  is  the  proper  application  to  keep  up  a  constant  discharge 
from  the  part  to  which  a  blister  has  been  applied. 

S94.  Bark  Poultice, — Take  of  Peruvian  bark,  one  ounce: 
sprinkle  it  over  a  piece  of  thick  muslin  of  the  required  size  ; 
take  another  piece  of  the  same  size;  lay  it  over  the  bark,  and 
quilt  them  together,  to  keep  the  bark  to  its  place;  moisten  h 
with  brandy  or  vinegar.  Some  of  the  aromatics  may  be  used 
in  conjunction  with  the  bark,  if  indicated. 

Let  it  be  worn  over  the  stomach  and  bowels.  It  has  proved 
singularly  beneficial  in  cases  of  obstinate  intermittents,  and 
debilitv  arising  therefrom. 


895,  Mush  Poultice. — Mush  poultices  are  sometimes  ordered ; 
this  constitutes  an  invaluable  application  in  cases  of  violent 
pain  in  the  stomach  and  bow^els,  such  as  colic,  cramp,  dec.  It 
is  made  by  simply  boiling  the  corn-meal  until  it  attains  the 
proper  consistency.  It  must  be  spread  on  a  cloth,  and  applied 
as  warm  as  can  be  endured.  We  have  known  the  most  invet- 
erate cases  relieved  by  it  in  fifteen  minutes. — Shore, 


rOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  FOR  CHILD-REN. 

896.  A  few  rules,  the  ret^ons  for  which  may  be  found  in  the 
Introductory  Remarks  of  ''  Mrs.  Hale^s  New  Cook  Book,'' 
will  be  of  some  advantage  here : — 

First.  Select  those  substances  that  are  the  most  soluble — 
that  are  readily  converted  into  chyle  by  the  gastric  juice. 

Second.  Those  that  experience  has  shown  to  be  the  most 
nutritious. 

Third.    Those  that  contain  the  least  amount  of  stimulus. 

Fourth.  These  to  be  given  in  quantity  and  frequency  pro 
portioned  to  the  general  strength  or  debility  of  the  patient. 

By  careful  observation,  the  feelings  of  the  invalid  will  be 
found  to  furnish  the  most  unequivocal  evidence  of  the  truth  of 
the  foregoing  principles — any  deviation  from  which  will  soon 
be  attended  with  syniptoms  more  or  less  unpleasant. 

897.  Arrow-root — Contains,  in  small  bulk,  a  greater  propor- 
tion  of  nourishment  than  any  other  farnaceous  substance  yet 
known. 


240  MKs.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

Take  of  arrow-root,  one  table-spoonful ;  sweet  milk,  half  a 
pint ;  boiling-water,  half  a  pint :  boil  these  together  for  a  few 
moments. 


898.  Arrow-root  Jelly , — Take  one  spoonful  of  arrow-root,  and 
cold  water  sufficient  to  form  a  paste ;  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
water:  stir  it  briskly,  and  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  when  it  will 
become  a  smooth,  clear  jelly.  A  little  sugar  and  sherry  wine 
may  be  added,  for  debilitated  patients ;  but  for  infants,  a  drop 
or  two  of  the  essence  of  caraway-seed  or  cinnamon  is  preferable, 
wine  being  very  apt  to  become  acid  in  the  stomach  of  infants, 
and  thus  disagree  with  the  bowels. 

899.  Sago. — Take  two  .table-spoonfuls  of  sago,  and  one  pint 
of  boiling  water ;  stir  together,  and  boil  gently,  until  it  thick- 
ens. Wine,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  may  be  added,  according  to 
circumstances. 


900.  Boiled  Flour, — Take  of  fine  flour,  one  pound ;  tie  it  up 
in  a  linen  cloth  as  tight  as  possible,  and,  after  frequently  dip- 
ping it  in  cold  water,  dredge  the  outside  with  flour,  till  a  crust 
is  formed  round  it,  which  will  prevent  the  water  soaking  into  it 
while  boiling.  It  is  then  to  be  boiled  until  it  becomes  a  hard, 
dry  mass. 

Two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  this  may  be  grated,  and  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  arrow-root,  for  which  it  forms  an  excel- 
lent substitute,  and  can  be  obtained  in  the  country,  where, 
perhaps,  the  other  cannot. 


901.  A  nourishing  Jelly  for  a  Sick  Person. — Put  into  a  stone 
jar  or  jug,  a  set  of  calf's-feet,  cut  in  pieces,  a  quart  of  milk, 
five  pints  of  water,  a  little  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass, 
and  a  handful  of  hartshorn  shavings.  Tie  some  brown  paper 
over  the  jug,  and  put  it  into  the  oven  with  household  bread. 
When  done,  strain  it  through  a  sieve ;  and  when  cold,  take  off 
the  fat.  Some  of  it  may  occasionally  be  warmed  up  with  wine 
and  sugar.     It  is  good  taken  as  broth,  with  herbs. 

902.  Restorative, — One  ounce  of  candied  eringo-root,  one 
ounce  of  sago,  one  ounce  of  pearl-barley,  and  one  ounce  of  rice. 
Boil  them  in  four  quarts  of  water,  till  reduced  to  half  that 
quantity.     Take  a  dessert-spoonful  either  in  milk  or  wine. 


MISTRESS,   MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  241 

903.  Vegetable  Soup, — Take  one  turnip,  one  potato,  and 
one  onion;  let  them  be  sliced,  and  boiled  in  one  quart  of  water 
for  an  hour;  add  as  much  salt  and  parsley  as  is  agreeable,  and 
pour  the  whole  on  a  slice  of  toasted  bread. 


904.  JSg^  Gruel, — Boil  a  pint  of  new  milk ;  beat  two  new- 
laid  eggs  to  a  light  froth,  and  pour  in  while  the  milk  boils ; 
stir  them  together  thoroughly,  but  do  not  let  them  boil, 
sweeten  it  with  the  best  of  loaf  sugar,  and  gfate  in  a  whole 
nutmeg;  add  a  little  salt,  if  you  like  it.  Drink  half  of  it  while 
it  is  warm,  and  the  other  half  in  two  hours.  It  is  said  to  be 
good  for  the  dysentery,  as  well  as  nourishing. 


905.  Bice  Jelly. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice-flour  with 
half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  in  a  quart  of  water,  till  the  whole 
becomes  one  glutinous  mass ;  then  strain  off  the  jelly,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cooL  This  food  is  very  nourishing  and  beneficial  to 
invalids. 


906.  Gruds. — Have  ready  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  mix 
three  large  spoonfuls  oi  finely-sifted  oat-meal,  rye,  or  Indian, 
in  cold  water;  pour  it  into  the  skillet  while  the  water  boils; 
let  it  boil  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Throw  in  a  large  handful  of 
raisins  to  boil,  if  the  patient  is  well  enough  to  bear  them. 
When  put  in  a  bowl,  add  a  little  salt,  white  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

907.  Stewed  Prunes, — Stew  them  very  gently  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  till  the  stones  slip  out  Physicians  consider 
them  safe  nourishment  in  fevers. 


DRINKS  FOR  THE  SICK. 

908.  Water  is  the  beverage  prepared  by  the  bountiful  Creator 
to  allay  the  thirst  of  all  living  creatures  on  the  earth;  and 
when  the  bare  quenching  of  thirst  is  the  object,  clear,  pure  cold 
water  is  the  best  drink  that  can  be  given :  but,  when  other 
objects  are  to  be  attained,  a  combination  becomes  necessary, 
into  which,  generally,  enters  an  acid,  an  alkali,  a  stimulus, 
a  tonic,  or  some  article  of  nourishment.  In  bilious  diseases, 
acidulated  drinks  are  often  found  beneficial — and  one  of  the 
best  of  these  is  in  the  form  of  lemonade^. 


242  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

009.  Lemonade, — Take  fresh  lemon-juice,  four  ounces;  fresh 
and  very  thin-peeled  lemon,  half  an  ounce;  white  sugar,  four 
ounces  ;  boiling  water,  three  pints.  Let  this  mixture  stand  till 
cold,  then  strain  for  use.  As  this  drink  sometimes  causes  pain 
in  the  bowels,  it  should  not  be  drank  too  freel^^ 


910.  A'pjpU'Water , — Take  one  tart  apple  of  ordinary  size, 
well  baked ;  let  it  be  well  mashed ;  pour  on  it  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water;  beat  them  well  together;  let  it  stand  to  cool,  and 
strain  it  off  for  use.     Add  loaf-sugar,  if  the  patient  desire  it. 

911.  Vinegar  Mixture. — Take  of  good  vinegar  three  ounces*, 
w^ater,  one  pint ;  loaf  sugar,  two-and-a-half  ounces. 


ALKALESCENT  DRINKS. 

912.  These  are  used  for  what  is  commonly  termed,  a  bout 
stomach — heart-hum — arising  from  indigestion.  The  following 
is  the  combination  employed  by  an  eminent  physician,  in  his 
own  case. 


913.  Dyspeptic  Ley, — Take  of  hickory  ashes,  1  quart;  soot, 
two  ounces ;  boiling  water,  1  gallon.  Mix,  and  let  them  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours,  frequently  stirring  the  ingredients  ;  then 
pour  off  the  ley,  and  bottle  it  up.  A  tea-cup  of  this  liquor  may 
be  given  three  times  a-day. 


STIMULATING  DRINKS. 

914.  These  are  given  in  cases  of  great  debility.  Madeira, 
sherry,  or  port  wines  are  usually  combined  with  some  other 
fluid,  like  the  following. 


915.  Wine  Whey. — Take  of  fresh  cow's  milk,  half  a  pint  5 
white  Madeira  wine,  one  ounce.  Boil  the  milk,  then  add  the 
wino. 


916.  Mustard  Whey, — Cow's  mijk,  1  pint;  bruised  mustard 
seed,  one  ounce;  simmer  together  till  the  curd  separates,  then 
ftdd  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine.  A  spoonful  of  this  to  be 
taken  every  hour  or  two,  in  low  fevers  and  cases  of  debilitated 
stomachs. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  243 


TONIC  DRINKS. 

917.  Decoction  of  Peruvian  Bark, — Peruvian  bark,  bruised, 
one  ounce ;  cold  water,  one  pint.  Boil  together  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  half  an  ounce  of  Virginia  snake-root,  and  two  drachms 
of  orange-peel,  bruised.  Keep  the  infusion  near  the  fire  for 
half  an  hour,  in  a  close  vessel.  A  wine-glassful  may  be  taken 
every  hour. 

918.  Columho  Root  and  Ginger, — Columbo  root,  bruised,  one 
ounce ;  ginger,  two  drachms  ;  boiling  water,  one  pint.  Let  them 
infuse  one  hour  by  the  fire ;  and  give  of  the  strained  liquor 
(cold)  a  wine-glassful  every  two  hours. 

This  infusion,  when  freely  used,  has  proved  successful  in 
bowel  complaint  (chronic  diarrhea)  of  long  standing. 

919.  Peruvian  Bark  and  Valerian. — For  this  decoction,  take 
Peruvian  bark,  bruised,  one  ounce ;  water,  one  pint ;  take  of 
Valerian  root,  one  ounce ;  boiling  water,  one  pint ;  infuse  for 
one  hour  and  strain.  Add  the  decoction  of  bark. to  this  infu- 
sion, and  give  a  tea-cupful,  cold,  three  or  four  times  a-day. 

This  is  chiefly  employed  in  rheumatic  headache,  in  which  it  is 
sometimes  very  serviceable.  It  was  a  favorite  prescription  of  the 
late  Dr.  Parrish. 


920.  Chamomile  and  Orange-peel. — For  this  infusion,  take 
chamomile-flowers,  one  ounce;  orange-peel,  half  an  ounce;  cold 
water,  three  pints ;  soak  together  twenty -four  hours.  Take  a 
tea-cupful  four  times  a-day. 

The  chamomile  infusion  is  more  agreeable  to  the  taste  when 
cold,  and  is  less  apt  to  spoil  than  when  made  of  boiling  water. 


921.  Wild  Cherry 'tree  Bark, — Take  of  this  bark,  dried  and 
bruised,  one  ounce  ;  orange-peel,  bruised,  two  drachms  ;  water, 
one  pint.  Boil  the  bark  alone  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  the 
orange-peel.     Take  a  wine-glassful,  cold,  twice  a-day. 

922.  Dog-wood  Bark, — Dog-wood  bark,  bruised,  one  ounce ; 
water,  one  pint.  Boil  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  and  strain. 
A  wine-glassful  may  be  given  every  hour.  This  is  a  very  good 
•ubstitute  for  Peruvian  bark  in  fever-and-ague. 


244  MRS.   HALE*S    RECEIPTS    S"OR    THE    MILLION, 

923.  Sage  Tea, — Night  sweats  have  been  cured,  when  more 
powerful  remedies  had  failed,  by  fasting  morning  and  night, 
and  drinkmg  cold  sage  tea  constantly  and  freely. 

924,  Gentian-root  Infusion, — Gentian-root,  half  an  ounce  ; 
orange-peel,  pounded,  two  drachms ;  hot  water,  one  pint.  Let 
these  stand  an  hour.  This  will  be  found  useful  in  debility  of 
the  digestive  organs.  ,  A  wine-glassful  may  be  given  every  two 
or  three"  hours. 


925.  Infusion  for  Rheumatism^ — One  ounce  of  gum-guaiacurr* 
must  be  bruised  and  put  into  a  pint  of  French  brandy,  in  which 
it  must  remain  for  at  least  thirty  hours.  When  the  gum  is 
dissolved,  shake  the  bottle,  and  pour  a  little  of  this  infusion  into 
rather  more  than  a  wine-glassful  of  tepid  water  ;  take  this  at 
bed-time,  for  three  nii^hts. 


926.  Mixture  for  Rheumatism, — One  ounce  of  salad  mustard 
must  be  simmered  in  a  pint  of  soft  water,  till  the  liquor  is  re- 
duced to  half  a  pint;  strain  it  through  muslin,  and  add  a  pint 
of  milk,  fresh  from  the  cow.  Let  it  bod  only  two  minutes,  and 
take  a  small  tea-cupful,  miik-vrarm,  night  and  morning. 


NUTRITIVE  DRINKS. 

927.  The  best  Method  of  obtaining  jpure  Soft  Water  for  Medi- 
cinal Purposes,  without  distilling  it, — Place  an  earthen  pan  in 
the  fields,  at  a  considerable  distance  from  the  smoke  of  any 
town,  to  catch  the  rain  a;S  it  falls.  People  living  in  the  country, 
can  easily  save  this  clean,  pure  rain-water.  Set  it  for  an  hour 
in  a  cool  cellar,  or  put  ice  into  it,  and  it  is  the  most  reviving 
drink  for  a  thirsty  invalid. 

928.  Toast  and  Water. — Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  on  both 
sides  carefully ;  then  pour  cold  water  over  the  bread  and  cover 
it  tight  for  one  hour  ;  or  use  boiling  water,  and  let  it  cool. 

929.  Waters  for  cooling  Droughts  of  Preserved  or  Fresh 
Fruits — Apple  Water ^  Lemon  Water ,  dtc, — Po«r  boiling  water 
on  the  preserved  or  fresh  fruits,  sliced  j  or  s(jueeze  out  the  juice, 
boil  it  with  sugar,  and  add  water*  ♦ 


MISTRESS,   MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  245 

930.  Barley  Water, — ^Take  pearl  barley,  twa  ounces  ;  wash 
It,  till  it  be  freed  from  dust,  in  cold  water :  afterwards  boil  it 
in  a  quart  of  water  for  a  few  minutes,  strain  off  the  liquor,  and 
throw  it  away.  Then  boil  it  in  four  pints  and  a  half  of  watei, 
until  it  be  reduced  one  half. 


931.  Laxative  Whey. — Take  of  the  dried  buds  of  the  damask 
rose,  one  ounce ;  rennet  whey,  one  quart.  .Let  them  stand  to 
gether  twelve  hours,  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  add  of  crys 
tals  of  tartar,  and  white  sugar,  a  suitable  proportion,  to  render 
it  more  active,  and  at  the  same  time  more  palatable. 

932.  Wine  Whey. — Wine  whey  is  a  cooling  and  safe  drink 
in  fevers.  Set  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  at  the  fire,  pour  in  one 
glass  of  wine,  and  let  it  remain  perfectly  still,  till  it  curdles; 
when  the  curds  settle,  strain  it,  and  let  it  cool.  It  should  not 
get  more  than  blood-warm.  A  spoonful  of  rennet-water  hastens 
the  operation.  Make  palatable  with  loaf-sugar  and  nutmeg,  if 
the  patient  can  bear  it. 

933.  Lemon  Syrup^for  a  Cough. — To  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water, 
add  two  large  poppy-heads,  and  two  large  lemons.  Boil  them 
till  they  are  soft,  press  the  lemons  into  the  water,  strain  the 
liquor,  and  add  half  a  drachm  of  saffron,  and  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar-candy,  pounded.  Boil  all  together  till  the  sugar- 
candy  is  dissolved  ;  stir  the  whole  till  you  perceive  it  will 
jelly  ;  strain  it  a  second  time,  and  take  the  seeds  from  the 
poppies. 

934.  Turnip  Syrup ^  for  a  Cold  or  Affection  of  the  Lungs. — 
Roast  twelve  or  more  fine  turnips  in  an  apple  roaster,  press  the 
juice  from  them,  and  add  sugar-candy  to  your  taste.  Take  a 
tea-cupful  at  night  and  in  the  morning. 


935.  Rose  Gargle. — Take  of  red  rose-buds,  dried,  half  an 
ounce ;  boiling  water,  two  pints  ;  diluted  vitriolic  acid,  three 
drachms  ;  mix  these  together,  macerate  for  half  an  hour,  and 
draw  off  the  liquor.     Sweeten  with  an  ounce  of  honey. 


936.  Ifetergent  Gargle. — Borax  powder,  two  drachms ;  rose> 
water,  six  ounces ;  honey  of  roses,  one  ounce.  Mix  together. 
To  be  used  in  the  thrush. 


2i6  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  milliox. 

937.  Common  Gargle, — Honey-water,  seven  ounces;  honey 
of  roses,  six  drachms;  vinegar,  half  an  ounce;  tincture  ci 
myrrh,  two  drachms.     Mix  these  together. 


938.  Starch  Injection,— -Take  of  the  jelly  of  starch,  foui 
ounces  ;  linseed  oil,  half  an  ounce.  Mix  them  over  a  gentle 
heat,  and  add  forty  drops  of  tincture  of  opium.  To  be  used  in 
alvine  fluxes,  to  allay  the  irritation  which  occasions  constant 
tenesmus. 


939.  Spermaceti  Ointment.  —  Take  of  spermaceti,  half  an 
ounce;  white  wax,  two  ounces;  olive  oil,  four  ounces.  Melt 
them  together  over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  till  cold. 


940.  Elder-Jlower  Ointment, — Gather  the  buds  or  earliest 
flowers  of  the  elder-bush  ;  simmer  these  in  fresh  butter,  or 
sweet  lard ;  it  makes  a  healing  and  cooling  ointment  for  the 
skin,  in  cutaneous  diseases. 


941.  Elder-flower  Poultice, — A  poultice  of  elder-flower  tea 
and  biscuit,  is  good  as  a  preventive  to  mortification. 

942.  White-bean  Poultice, — Nothing  is  so  good  to  take  down 
swellings,  as  a  soft  poultice  of  stewed  white  beans,  put  on  in  a 
thin  muslin  bag,  and  renewed  every  hour  or  two. 


A  FEW  SIMPLE  MIXTURES,  &c. 

943.  Squill  Mixture, — Take  of  the  milk  of  ammoniacum, 
four  ounces;  syrup  of  squills,. three  ounces;  mix  them  together. 
Dose,  two  large  spoonsful  every  sixth  hour.  It  is  efficacious  in 
coughs,  asthma,  and  oppression  on  the  chest. 

944.  Chalk  Mixture.— Take  of  prepared  chalk,  one  ounce; 
double  refined  sugar,  six  drachms;  gum  arable,  in  powder,  one 
ounce  ;  water,  two  pints.     Mix  them  together. 


945.  Camphor  Mixture. — Take  of  camphor,  one  drachm  ;  rec- 
tified spirit  of  wine,  a  few  drops.  Rub  them  together.  Add 
half  an  ounce  of  double  refined  sugar  and  one  pint  of  boiling 
distilled,  or  rain  water.     When  cold,  strain  off*  the  liquor. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    mrRSE    AND    MAID.  24:1 

94G.  Infusion  of  Senna. — Take  of  senna  leaves,  one  ounce 
and  a  half;  ginger,  in  powder,  one  drachm  ;  of  boiling  distilled, 
or  rain  water,  one  pint.  Macerate  for  an  hour.  When  cold, 
strain  off  the  liquor. 


947.  Cordial  Julep, — Take  of  peppermint  water,  four  ounces  ; 
pimento  water,  two  ounces;  compound  spirit  of  ammonia, 
tincture  of  castor,  of  each  two  drachms.  Mix  them  together. 
Dose,  two  large  spoonsful. 


948.  Mucilage  of  Quince  Seed, — Take  of  quince  seeds,  one 
drachm ;  rain  or  distilled  water,  half  a  pint.  Boil  over  a  gen- 
tle fire,  until  the  liquor  becomes  thick  and  viscid. 

049.  Lime  Water. — Take  of  quick  lime,  eight  ounces ;  rain 
or  distilled  water,  twelve  pints.  Suffer  them  to  stand  together 
one  hour,  then  decant  the  liquor. 


950.  Alum  Whey, — Take  of  alum,  two  drachms;  cow's  milk, 
one  pint.  Boil  them  together,  until  the  curd  be  formed  ;  then 
strain  off  the  liquor,  and  add  spirit  of  nutmeg,  two  ounces; 
syrup  of  cloves,  one  ounce. 

It  is  employed  with  advantage  in  diabetes,  in  uterine  and 
other  fluxes. 


951.  Whortleberries,  —  Whortleberries,  commonly  called 
huckleberries,  dried,  are  a  useful  medicine  for  children.  Made 
into  tea,  and  sweetened  with  molasses,  they  are  very  beneficial, 
when  the  system  is  in  a  restricted  state,  and  the  digestive  pow- 
ers out  of  order. 


952.  Blackberries, — Blackberries  are  extremely  useful,  in 
cases  of  dysentery.  To  eat  the  berries  is  very  healthy  ;  tea, 
made  of  the  roots  and  leaves  is  beneficial;  and  a  syrup  made 
of  the  berries  is  still  better.  Blackberries  have  sometimes 
effected  a  cure  when  physicians  despaired. 


953.  Method  of  causing  Children  to  cut  their  Teeth  easily. — 
Feed  them  with  an  ivory  spoon  and  boat — to  be  made  thick, 
round,  and  smooth  at  the  edges.  Ivory  being  of  the  same 
hardness  and  texture  as  the  jaws  and  tender  teeth,  the  ^ums 


248  MRS.  Hale's  receipts  fob  the  milliok. 

are  not  hurt  or  injured,  but,  when  they  are  thus  pressed,  faci- 
litate the  teeth  in  their  progress ;  whereas,  the  silver  imple- 
ments, being  of  a  hard  texture,  and  the  edges  made  thin,  bruise 
and  wound  the  gums,  and  make  a  hard  seam  ;  so  that  the  teeth 
cannot  make  their  way  direct,  and,  if  they  do  cut,  come  irregu- 
larly ;  so  that  the  operation  of  lancing  is  frequently  absolutely 
necessary,  which,  of  course,  must  prejudice  the  teeth,  as  some 
are  exposed  before  the  time  they  are  fit  to  cut. 

By  this  method,  fevers,  convulsions,  &c.,  owing  to  the  teeth 
being  not  able  to  find  their  way  through  the  hard  seam,  may 
be  prevented.  It  must  be  often  observed,  that  children  cry 
much  when  feeding,  as  if  ill,  or  disgusted  with  their  food ; 
whereas  it  is  frequently  owing  to  quite  the  contrary  ;  for,  being 
hungry,  and  over  eager  to  take  their  food,  they  press  hard, 
through  eagerness,  on  the  boat  and  spoon,  which,  being  sharp, 
bruises  and  cuts  the  gums,  and  consequently  causes  great  paiu, 
which,  by  the  ivory  implements,  will  be  prevented.  Those 
who  cannot  afford  ivory,  may  have  horn  or  wood,  or  even  pew- 
ter is  greatly  preferable  to  silver,  provided  the  edges  are  madq 
thick,  round,  and  smooth.  The  wooden  sort,  unless  they  are 
kept  very  sweet  and  clean,  on  that  very  account,  are  the  least 
eligible,  and  should  be  made,  however,  of  box,  or  such  hard 
and  close-textured  wood  as  is  the  least  liable  to  be  tainted  by 
the  milky  food. 

954.  Rules  for  the  Preservation  of  the  Teeth  and  Gums, — 
The  teeth  are  bones,  thinly  covered  over  with  a  fine  enamel, 
and  this  enamel  is  more  or  less  substantial  in  different  persons. 
Whenever  this  enamel  is  worn  through  by  too  coarse  a  powder, 
or  too  frequently  cleaning  the  teeth,  or  eaten  through  by  a 
scorbutic  humor  in  the  gums,  the  tooth  cannot  remain  long 
sound,  any  more  than  a  filbert-kernel  can,  when  it  has  been 
penetrated  by  a  worm. 

The  teeth,  therefore,  are  to  be  cleaned,  but  with  great  pre- 
caution ;  for,  if  you  wear  the  enamel  off  faster  by  cleaning  the 
outaide  than  nature  supplies  it  within,  your  teeth  will  suffer 
more  by  this  method,  than  perhaps  by  a  total  neglect. 

955.  Stammering. — Impediments  in  the  speech  may  be  cured, 
where  there  is  no  raal-formation  of  the  organs  of  articulation, 
by  pej'^everance,  for  three  or  four  months,  in  the  simple  remedy 
of  reading  aloud,  with  the  teeth  closed,  for  at  least  two  houri 
in  the  course  of  each  day. 


NtTRSE   AND   MAID.  249 

956.  Of  Preserven^  and  Rules  for  the  Preservation  of  Sight, — 
Though  it  may  be  impossible  to  prevent  the  absolute  decay  of 
sight,  whether  arising  from  age,  partial  disease,  or  illness,  yet, 
by  prudence  and  good  management,  its  natural  failure  may 
certainly  be  retarded,  and  the  general  habits  of  the  eyes  strength- 
ened, which  good  purposes  will  be  promoted  by  a  proper  atten- 
tion to  the  following  maxims : — 

1.  Never  sit  for  any  length  of  time  in  absolute  gloom,  or 
exposed  to  a  blaze  of  light.  The  reasons  on  which  this  rule  is 
founded,  prove  the  impropriety  of  going  hastily  from  one  ex- 
treme to  the  other,  whether  of  darkness  or  of  light,  and  show 
us  that  a  southern  aspect  is  improper  for  those  whose  sight  is 
weak  and  tender. 

2.  Avoid    reading    small  print. 

3.  Never  read  in  the  dark ;  nor,  if  the  eyes  be  disordered, 
by  candle-light.  Happy  those  who  learn  this  lesson  betimes, 
and  begin  to  preserve  their  sight  before  they  are  reminded  by 
pain  of  the  necessity  of  sparing  them.  The  frivolous  attention 
to  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  the  evening,  has  cost  numbers  the 
perfect  and  comfortable  use  of  their  eyes  for  many  years ;  the 
mischief  is  effected  imperceptibly — the  consequences  are  in- 
evitable. 

4.  The  eye  should  not  be  permitted  to  dwell  on  glaring 
objects,  more  particularly  on  first  waking  in  the  morning ;  the 
sun  should  not,  of  course,  be  suffered  to  shine  in  the  room  at 
that  time,  and  a  moderate  quantity  of  light  only  be  admitted. 
It  is  easy  to  see  that,  for  the  same  reasons,  the  furniture  of  a 
bed  should  be  neither  altogether  of  a  white  or  red  color ;  indeed, 
those  whose  eyes  are  weak,  would  find  considerable  advantage 
in  having  green  for  the  furniture  of  their  bed-chamber.  Nature 
confirms  the  propriety  of  the  advice  given  in  this  rule ;  for  the 
light  of  the  day  comes  on  by  slow  degrees,  and  green  is  the 
universal  color  she  presents  to  our  eyes. 

5.  The  long-sighted  should  accustom  themselves  to  read  with 
rather  less  light,  and  somewhat  nearer  to  the  eye  than  what 
they  naturall}^  like;  while  those  that  are  short-sighted,  should 
rather  use  themselves  to  read  with  the  book  as  far  off  as  pos- 
sible :  by  this  means,  both  would  improve  and  strengthen 
their  sight;  while  a  contrary  course  will  increase  its  natural 
imperfections. 

There  is  nothing  which  preserves  the  sight  longer  than  always 
using,  both  in  reading  and  writing,  that  moderate  degree  of  light 
wiiich  is  best  suited  to  the  eye :   too  little,  strains  them— too 


250  MRS.  bale's  keceipts  for  the  million. 

great  a  quantity,  dazzles  and  confounds  them.  The  eyes  are 
Jess  hurt  by  the  want  of  light,  than  by  the  excess  of  it :  too  little 
light  never  does  any  harm,  unless  they  are  strained  by  efforts 
to  see  objects  to  which  the  degree  of  light  is  inadequate ;  but 
too  great  a  quantity  has,  by  its  own  power,  destroyed  the  sight. 
Thus,  many  have  brought  on  themselves  a  cataract,  by  fre- 
quently looking  at  the  sun  or  a  fire ;  others  have  lost  their  sight 
by  being  brought  too  suddenly  from  an  extreme  of  darkness 
into  the  blaze  of  day.  How  dangerous  the  looking  on  bright, 
luminous  objects,  is  to  the  sight,  is  evident  from  its  effects  in 
those  countries  which  are  covered,  the  greater  part  of  the  year, 
with  snow,  where  blindness  is  exceedingly  frequent,  and  w^here 
the  traveller  is  obliged  to  cover  his  eyes  with  crape,  to  prevent 
the  dangerous  and  often  sudden  effects  of  too  much  light :  even 
the  untutored  savage  tries  to  avoid  the  danger,  by  framing  a 
little  wooden  case  for  his  eyes,  with  only  two  narrow  slits.  A 
momentary  gaze  at  the  sun  will,  for  a  time,  unfit  the  eyes  for 
vision,  and  render  them  insensible  to  impressions  of  a  milder 
nature. 


957.  The  Feet — Should  be  washed  in  cold  water  every  morn- 
ing, and  wnped  very  dry.  Stockings,  if  too  smallf  cripple  the 
feet  as  surely  as  small  shoes.  Always  be  careful  to  give  the 
foot  room  enough,  and  you  will  be  rarely  troubled  with  corns. 
When  the  toe-nails  have  a  tendency  to  turn  in,  so  as  to  be 
painful,  the  nail  should  alw^ays  be  kept  seraped  very  thirty  and 
as  near  the  flesh  as  possible.  As  soon  as  the  corner  of  the  nail 
can  be  raised  up  out  of  the  flesh,  it  should  be  kept  from  again 
entering,  by  putting  a  tuft  of  fine  lint  under  it. 

958.  For  Soi^e  Feet. — The  thin  w  hite  skin  which  comes  from 
suet,  is  excellent  to  bind  upon  the  feet,  for  chilblains.  Rubbing 
with  Castile  soap,  and  afterw^ards  with  honey,  is  likew^ise  highly 
recommended. 


959.  A  Vapor-Bath  at  home. — Place  strong  sticks  across  a 
tub  of  water,  at  the  boiling-point,  and  sit  upon  them,  entirely 
enveloped  in  a  blanket,  feet  and  all.  The  steam  from  the  water 
will  be  a  vapor-bath.  Some  people  put  herbs  into  the  water. 
Steam-baths  are  excellent  for  severe  colds,  and  for  some  disorders 
in  the  bowels.  They  should  not  be  taken  without  the  advice 
of  an  experienced  nurse  or  physician.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  renew  the  cold  after ;  it  would  be  doubly  dangerous. 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  251 


RULES  FOR  WOMEN  SERVANTS. 

960.  Of  the  Coohmaid. — When  a  young  woman  undertakes 
the  situation  of  cookmaid  in  a  family,  where  only  one  or  two 
other  servants  are  kept,  she  will  have  many  duties  to  perform, 
besides  preparing  and  dressing  the  provisions,  although  that  is 
her  principal  business.  What  those  duties  are,  will,  of  course, 
depend  very  much  upon  the  habits  of  the  family  with  whom 
she  lives  ;  and  whether  thei^e  is  a  man-servant  or  a  boy  kept ; 
as,  if  not,  the  cleaning  of  knives,  shoes,  and  various  things  that 
would  be  done  by  them,  become  the  business  of  the  cook-maid. 


961.  General  duties  of  the  Cookmaid, — The  part  of  the  house 
in  which  her  chief  work  lies  is  the  kitchen  ;  but  she  is  also  ex- 
pected to  clean  the  passage  or  hall,  the  stone  door-steps,  the 
bell-pull,  name-plate,  knocker,  and  all  things  outside  the  house 
which  are  kept  cleaned ;  also,  the  kitchen  stairs,  pantry,  ser- 
vants' offices,  and  areas;  and,  in  many  families,  the  dining- 
room  as  well  as  the  kitchen  windows,  and  the  light  over  or  at 
the  sides  of  the  hall  door.  It  is  her  place  to  scour  the  dresser, 
table,  shelves,  &;c.,  in  the  kitchen  and  pantry^  and  to  keep  both 
places  clean  and  in  order ;  to  wash  the  plates  and  dishes,  to 
keep  the  saucepans  and  all  other  vessels  used  in  cooking,  or  for 
keeping  eatables  in,  perfectly  clean,  so  that  they  may  always 
be  ready  for  use  ;  to  wash  and  keep  the  pudding-cloths  sweet 
and  clean  ;  to  sweep  the  carpet,  and  clean  the  grate,  fender, 
fire-irons,  and  hearth,  in  the  breakfast-parlor ;  to  clean  the 
kitchen  candlesticks ;  to  assist  the  housemaid  in  making  the 
beds  after  they  have  been  laid  open  to  air ;  to  answer  the  door 
to  the  trades-people  ;  and,  if  there  is  no  man-servant,  nor  boy 
kept,  to  brush  the  clothes  and  shoes  of  the  gentlemen  of  the 
family. 

It  is  of  great  importance  that  the  cookmaid  should  be  cleanly 
in  her  person,  as  well  as  in  her  cooking ;  and  that  she  should 
never  be  seen  with  dirty  hands,  which  may  be  easily  prevented 
by  using  thick  gloves,  when  blacking  a  stove  or  doing  any 
other  dirty  work,  and  always  washing  her  hands  as  soon  as 
she  has  finished.  Nothing  can  be  more  disagreeable  than  to 
see  the  person  who  prepares  one's  meals  with  dirty  handa 
or  apron. 


252  MRS.  Hale's  reckifts  for  the  million, 

962.  Arrangements  for  Work  in  the  Kitchen, — The  cookraaid 
should  always  be  furnished  with  her  own  pails,  brushes,  flan- 
nels,  and  everything  she  requires  for  her  own  work,  and  should 
never  use  the  housemaid's  pails  or  brushes,  nor  suffer  the 
housemaid  to  use  hers.  A  strict  attention  to  this  rule  pre- 
vents much  discomfort  and  confusion,  and  the  work  is  sure  to 
be  done  with  more  regularity,  and  much  time  saved. 


963.  WfyrJc  in  the  Breakfast-room. — Your  work  in  the  break 
fast-room  generally  is  to  light  the  fire,  clean  the  stove,  fender, 
fire-irons,  and  hearth ;  take  up  the  ashes,  sweep  the  carpet, 
shake  the  hearth-rug,  and  lay  it  down  again  ;  but  this  is  some- 
times varied  in  different  families.  If  you  find  there  are  more 
cinders  than  you  can  use  for  lighting  the  fire,  you  should  take 
them  down  to  burn  in  the  kitchen. 


964.  Of  Neatness  in  the  Breakfast-room, — In  order  to  avoid 
soiling  the  carpet  in  the  breakfast-parlor,  while  you  are  lighting 
the  fire  and  cleaning  the  stove,  you  should  have  a  piece  of  drug- 
get, about  a  yard  wide  and  two  yards  long,  or  cloth  of  some 
kind,  to  lay  down  ;  but  whichever  you  use,  always  use  it  the 
dirty  side  upwards.  Without  this  precaution,  the  most  care- 
ful person  cannot  prevent  the  carpet  from  getting  dirty  before 
the  fire-place. 

965,  Punctuality  in  Servants. — Punctuality  is  a  very  essen- 
tial quality  in  a  cookmaid,  who  ought  to  regulate  her  work  so 
that  the  dinner  should  always  be  ready  at  the  appointed  time  ; 
and  to  avoid  any  mistake  in  this  particular,  she  should  know 
precisely  the  length  of  time  required  to  cook  each  kind  of  f<jod, 
according  to  the  taste  of  those  for  whom  she  cooks,  and  then 
she  should  allow  herself  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  more, 
to  take  up  the  dinner,  and  for  any  little  hindrance  that  may 
occur,  she  will  be  tolerably  exact.  The  best  means  of  being 
punctual  is  to  keep  everything  in  its  proper  place,  and  fit  for 
use,  so  that  no  time  may  be  lost  in  looking  for  this  thing  or 
that,  or  in  having  to  clean  any  utensils  that  may  be  wanted  for 
cookincr. 


966.  Economy  in  the  Kitchen, — Never  waste  anything,  but 
have  places  and  purposes  for  all  articles  in  your  keeping. 
Habits   of  economy   are  easily   acquired,    and   the   cookmaid 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE   AND   MAID.  253 

rould  do  well  to  consider  how  much  more  valuable  she  must 
be  to  her  employers,  and  how  much  more  she  will  be  respected, 
if  she  be  careful,  and  make  the  most  of  the  property  that  is 
intrusted  ^o  her  charge,  than  if  she  uses  it  wastefully. 

967.  Cleaning  the  Hall^  dc. — If  you  are  quick  with  the 
breakfast-parlor  work,  you  will,  very  likely,  have  time  to  clean 
the  door-steps  and  passage  before  breakfast,  which  is  much  bet- 
ter than  leaving  them  till  afterwards :  but  this  will,  of  course, 
depend  on  the  breakfast-hour,  as  you  must  not,  on  any  account, 
neglect  to  see  that  the  water  in  the  kettle  is  boiling,  the  urn- 
iron  hotf  and  everything  ready  to  take  up  the  moment  it  is 
wanted. 


968.  Making  Breakfast — If  you  have  toast  to  make,  or  bacon 
to  cook,  take  care  to  have  a  clear  fire,  so  that  it  may  be  done 
quickly,  when  wanted,  and  not  before ;  for  both  toast  and  ba- 
con should  be  hot  from  the  fire,  and  not  suffered  to  stand  after 
they  are  done.  Dry  toast  should  be  thin  and  crisp ;  to  keep  it 
so,  set  it  on  its  edge  in  the  toast-rack,  directly  it  is  made. 

Never  boil  eggs  by  guess ;  if  you  have  no  clock  in  the 
kitchen,  you  should  have  a  sand-glass  or  egg-boiler,  for  in 
guessing  at  the  time,  it  is  not  possible  to  be  quite  exact,  and 
half  a  minute  too  much  or  too  little  will  spoil  an  egg.  It  is  the 
duty  of  the  cookmaid  to  prepare  the  breakfast ;  and  that  of  the 
housemaid  to  carry  it  up  to  the  breakfast-parlor. 

969.  Cold  Meats  at  Breakfast. — In  some  families,  whatever 
cold  meat  or  cold  poultry  may  have  been  left  from  the  previous 
day,  is  served  up  at  breakfast ;  in  which  case  it  is  the  cook- 
maid's  duty  to  send  it  up,  laid  out.  neatly  on  clean  and  rather 
small-sized  dishes,  with  breakfast  plates  and  small  clean  knives 
and  forks ;  sometimes  it  will  require  a  little  putting  to  rights, 
hy  trimming,  and  garnishing  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley, 
which,  of  course,  she  will  attend  to.  • 


970.  To  arrange  for  Children,  dc. — If  the  children  of  the 
family  breakfast  in  the  nursery,  or  require  to  go  to  school 
early,  you  will,  most  probably,  be  expected  to  cut  their  bread 
and  butter,  and  get  their  breakfast  ready  for  them  ;  or,  at  all 
events,  assist  in  doing  so.  It  is  your  place  also  to  get  the 
kitchen  breakfast  ready  for  yourself  and  the  housemaid,  <Sjo.  j 


%4  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million, 

and  it  will  materially  add  to  the  comfort  of  your  situation,  if 
you  take  care  to  keep  your  table-cloth  clean,  and  neatly  folded^ 
so  that  it  may  not  have  an  untidy  appearance  when  spread 
upon  the  table ;  and  let  the  kjiives,  and  all  the  things  you  use 
for  yourself  and  fellow  servants,  be  clean  like  those  you  send 
up  to  the  table  of  the  family. 


971.  Taking  Directions  for  Dinner, — In  most  families,  it  is 
^he  custom  of  the  lady  of  the  house,  to  go  into  the  kitchen  ev- 
'  ery  morning,  to  make  arrangements  with  the  cook  about  the 
dinner,  and  to  give  out  from  the  store-closet  such  things  as  may 
be  required  for  the  day's  use,,  either  by  the  cookmaid  or  house- 
li^id...  You  must  then  remember  to  ask  for  whatever  you  will 
want,  so  that  you  may  not  have  to  give  trouble  a  second  time. 
Some. ladies  prefer  that  the  cookmaid  shoijd  come  into  the 
parlor,  to  receive  directions.  Should  this  be  the  custom,  you 
should  make  it  a  rule  to  wash  your  hands,  and  put  on  a  clean 
apron,  before  you  go  in.  There  are  some  foolish  servants,  who 
have  a  mist^en  notion  that  a  lady  should  not  trouble  herself 
much  with  her  kitchen;  but  every  one  ought  to  have  the  good 

,   sense  to  know  that  it  is  the  province  and  duty  of  a  mistress  to 

superintend   th^  ofder  and  management  of  every  part  of  her 

household  ;  and  those  servants  who  are  conscious  that  they 

waste  not,  and  pejf(!&'m  their  duties  to  the  best  of  their  ability, 

.  l.will   never  feet- an   objection;    but,  on    the  contrary,  will  be 

■  pleased  that  thoir  mistress  should  see  that  they  do  so. 


0J2.  Making  £eds\  c&c. — When  you  have  taken  orders  about 
y»dinner,  you  should  go  up  into  the  bed-rooms,  to  assist  the 
Jiouse-maid  in  making  the-  beds — having  already  washed  your 
'  hands,  and  put  on  your  clean  bed-apron.  It  is  very  proper  to 
keep  a  bed-apron  entirely  for  this  purpose,  one  that  will  wrap 
quite  round  you,  and  tie  together  behind  ;  and  to  take  it  off, 
and  fold  it  tip,  as  soon  as.  the  beds  are  made.  It  will  serve 
for  a  week,  with  care ;  therefore,  if  you  make  a  rule  to  put  01:1 
a  clean  tire  every  Monday  morning,  the  bed-clothes  and  furni- 
ture will  never --get  soiled  by  rubbing  against  your  gown  or 
clothes.  Attention  to  such  little  niceties  as  these  is  so  easy, 
that  it  is  surprising  any  one  should  neglect  them,  particularly 
as  they  make  all  the  difference  between  a  good  servant  and  a 
bad  one^^- 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  255 

973.  Arrangement  of  the  Dinner -Table, — Always  have  the 
salt-cellars  filled  with  fine  clean  salt,  and  the  cruets  and  cruet- 
stand  dusted  ;  and  that  each  of  the  cruets  are  atout  half-full 
of  vinegar,  oil,  pepper,  sugar,  &c.,  such  as  they  are  intended  to 
hold  ;  and  although  this  is  the  housemaid's  duty,  it  is  only  kind 
in  the  cookmaid  to  give  the  housemaid  all  the  information  she 
may  require  or  ask  for ;  a  good  dinner  will  look  very  un- 
handsome, unless  the  housemaid  takes  care  that  the  salts  and 
cruets  are  clean,  and  sufficiently  filled  to  accompany  it  to  table. 
The  housemaid  should  also  see  that  the  mustard-cruet  is  quite 
clean,  before  it  is  put  on  the  table;  for  if  the  mustard  is  dried 
on  the  edges,  or  on  the  spoon,  it  has  a  very  disagreeable  appear- 
ance, and  betokens  an  untidy  servant. 


974.  The  Dinner-Hour^  and  its  Duties. — In  order  more  surely 
to  be  correct  to  Hhe  dinner-hour,  allow  yourself  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes  for  taking  up  the  dinner,  and  for  any  hin- 
drances that  may  occur;  and  take  care  to  have  the  fire  made  up 
in  proper  time  for  cooking — regulating  the  size  of  it  according 
to  what  you  have  to  cook,  it  should  be  stirred  as  little  as 
possible  while  you  are  cooking;  indeed,  a  good  cookmaid  stirs 
her  fire  only  once  during  her  roasting,  and  that  is  when  she 
turns  the  meat,  or  alters  the  hanging  of  it,  at  which  times  she 
takes  the  meat  and  dripping-pan  away  from  the  fire,-  as  stirring 
creates  both  dust  and  sm^oke ;  but  as  dust  or  coal  may,  by  acci- 
dent, fall  into  the  dripping-pan,  keep  ready  a  dish-cloth,  to 
wipe  it  out  directly.  Be  mindful,  also,  to  keep  in  the  house 
a  stock  of  the  things  that  are  commonly  wanted,  such  as  flour, 
salt,  pepper,  spices,  &c. ;  but  always  make  a  point  of  using  up 
what  you  had,  before  you  begin  upon  the  fresh  supply  ;  and 
be  sure  to  put  them  away  into  their  proper  places,  as  you 
receive  them — as  mustard,  pepper,  spices,  tea,  coffee,  &c.,  will 
spoil,  if  kept  in  the  papers  they  are  sent  home  in. 

975.  Of  Re-cooking. — In  cities,  where  the  master  of  the  house 
is  often  engaged  in  business  until  late  in  the  day,  the  dinner- 
hour  may  be  as  late  as  four  or  ^wq  o'clock  ;  in  that  case,  there 
is  an  eaily  dinner  for  the  children  and  servants,  for  whom  a 
pudding  is  usuall}?  to  be  made,  it  is  a  very  material  part  of 
your  business,  to  know  how  to  dress  over,  nicely,  anything  left 

Ti'om  the  preceding  day's  dinner,  so  that  it  may  be  used  in  the 
kitchen,  if  not  required  in  the  dining-room,     l^or  this  purpose, 


256  MRS.  hale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

you  should,  when  a  joint  is  brought  down  from  the  dining-room, 
put  it  on  a  clean  dish,  and  pour  the  gravj  into  a  small  basin 
or  jelly-pot,*  and  you  will  find  it  very  useful  in  making  nice, 
savory  dishes  of  cold  meat,  or  to  put  into  hashes  and  stews, 
or  warming  up  for  gravy. 


976.  Hot  Plates  for  iJinner, — Before  sending  up  dinner,  take 
care  that  you  have  enough  hot  plates.  It  is  better  to  heat  a 
few  more  than  the  exact  number,  lest  an  extra  one  may  be 
wanted. 


977.  Serving  up  Dinner, — Whilst  the  dinner  is  being  served 
up,  the  cook-maid  may  be  required  to  assist,  by  taking  the 
dishes  to  the  door  of  the  dining-parlor ;  also,  in  some  families, 
by  taking  them  from  the  housemaid,  or  from  the  outside  of  the 
dining-room  door,  when  they  are  done  with,  that  the  house- 
maid, if  she  waits  at  dinner,  may  not  have  to  leave  the  room. 
And  the  cookmaid  will  save  herself  much  time  and  trouble, 
if  she  gets  her  dish-tub,  in  the  sink,  half  filled  with  hot  water, 
so  that  she  may  put  the  dishes  and  plates  into  it  the  moment 
they  are  brought  from  the  dinner-table. 

978.  Washing  Dishes, — The  dirty  dishes  and  plates  should 
be  put  into  a  dish-tub  of  warm  water,  immediately  they  are 
taken  from  the  dinner  table;  for,  by  this  means,  half  the 
trouble  of  washing-up  will  be  saved,  as  it  will  prevent  the 
gravy,  mustard,  juice,  &c.,  from  cooling  and  drying  on  the 
plates  and  dishes.  When  you  commence  washing  them,  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  it  hot  enough  to  wash  them  in, 
and  with  a  dish-cloth  wash  them  clean  on  both  sides,  one  at  a 
time.  Rinse  them  immediately,  in  a  pan  full  of  cold  water, 
part  of  which  should  stand  under  the  tap,  which  should  be 
turned  a  little  on  to  keep  it  full.  The  reason  for  keeping  the 
pan  full  of  water  and  running  over,  is,  that  any  grease,  &;c., 
which  may  rinse  off  the  plates  and  dishes,  may  swim  over  into 
the  sink  in  the  act  of  rinsing,,  otherwise  it  would  remain  on  the 
water,  and  make  those  you  rinse,  after  the  first  few,  look 
greasy,  instead  of  clean  and  bright. 

979.  Washing  Saucepans^  Kettles^  <fcc, — When  you  have 
w^ashed  all  the  dishes  and  plates  used  at  dinner,  as  above  di- 
rected, and  put  them  in  the  rack  to  drain,  the  saucepans  and 


MISTRESS,    MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  257 

kettles  which  have  been  used  for  cooking,  should  next  be 
cleaned.  The  proper  plan  is  to  fill  them  with  cold  water  as 
soon  as  the  food  has  been  taken  out  of  them,  as,  by  this  means, 
whatever  may  hang  about  the  sides  cannot  stick  close,  nor  dry 
on  hard,  and  they  will  clean  much  more  readily.  If  the  insides 
are  discolored  or  dirty,  a  little  soda  or  wood-ash  is  the  best 
thing  to  clean  them  with  ;  or,  if  they  are  very  dirty,  the  wood- 
ashes,  or  some  soda,  must  be  boiled  up  in  them.  They  should 
afterwards  be  well  rinsed  with  boiling-hot  water,  wiped,  and 
made  perfectly  dry,  by  being  placed  for  some  time  bottom  up- 
wards, before  the  kitchen  fire.  The  upper  rims  of  saucepans, 
and  the  rims  and  insides  of  the  lids,  must  be  kept  quite  clean. 
If  tin  saucepans  are  not  completely  dry,  they  will  soon  get 
rusty,  and  if  copper  ones  are  not  perfectly  cleaned  and  dried, 
they  become  poisonous.  Never  leave  food  of  any  kind  in  a 
saucepan  to  become  cold. 

980.  Washing  Pudding -cloths^  dc, — Pudding-cloths^  should 
be  washed  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  puddings  are  taken  out 
of  them.  They  should  be  washed  in  clean  warm  water,  with- 
out soap,  rinsed  and  thoroughly  dried  before  being  folded  and 
put  in  the  kitchen  drawer,  otherwise  they  will  give  a  musty 
smell  to  the  puddings  that  are  next  boiled  in  them.  The 
paste-brush,  egg-whisk  and  sieves  must  also  be  washed,  first  in 
cold  and  then  in  warm  water,  and  put  away  clean  and  dry,  or 
they  will  spoil  whatever  you  use  them  for  afterwards.  All 
things  through  which  eggs  are  strained,  should  be  washed,  first 
in  cold  and  then  in  hot  water. 


981.  Cleaning  the  Sink. — First,  wn'pe  into  one  corner  and 
take  up  all  the  little  bits  of  gristle,  fat,  or  vegetables,  or  what- 
ever else  may  have  collected  in  the  sink  ;  and,  if  you  live  in  or 
near  to  a  town,  throw  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  top  of  the 
kitchen  fire;  for,  if  thrown  into  the  dust-bin,  it  will  either  entice 
rats  or  other  vermin,  or  else  cause  an  oflensive  and  unwhole- 
some smell.  If  forced  down  the  sink  holes,  the  same  unplea- 
sant consequences  will  follow^,  besides  stopping-up  and  destroy- 
ing the  drains.  But  if  you  live  in  the  countiy  where  a  pig  is 
kept,  it  may  be  thrown  into  the  pig  tub  with  the  dish  washings^ 

You  must  next  clean  the  sink,  which,  if  of  stone,  is  best  done 
with  a  hard  brush  and  a  little  soda  ;  or,  if  of  lead,  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture  : — One  pennyworth  of  pearlash,  one  penny w^orth 

17 


258  ^iKS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million 

of  soft-soap,  and  one  pennyworth  of  fuljer's-earth,  (the  fullerV 
earth  dried,)  mixed  together  in  a  pipkin,  or  something  of  the 
kind,  with  a  quart  of  water.  About  a  table-spoonful  of  this  on 
a  piece  of  flannel  will  clean  the  leaden  sink. 

982.  Cleaning  the  Spit,  Frying-2)an,  dc, — The  spit,  if  one  ir 
used,  must  also  be  always  perfectly  cleaned  when  done  wich. 
A  little  dripping  rubbed  on  a  hot  frying-pan  or  gridiron,  after 
cleaning  it,  will  greatly  remove  -the  smell  and  taste  offish;  but 
some  persons  rub  a  little  salt  well  about  the  inside  of  a  hot 
frying-pan,  with  a  piece  of  clean  paper,  which  also  removes  the 
taste  of  fish  or  onions.  If  these  things  are  put  away  into  damp 
places,  they  will  soon  become  unfit  for  use. 

983.  Cabbar/e-ivater  to  be  throivn  aivay. — Always  remember 
that  green  water,  that  is,  water  in  which  cabbage,  or  any  other  ve- 
getable is  boiled,  should  be  thrown  down  the  sink  the  moment 
the  vegetables  are  out  of  it,  while  it  is  quite  hot,  and  then  a 
pailful  of  cold  water  thrown  after  it,  will  prevent  the  unhealthy 
smell  arising  from  green  water  ;  but  if  it  be  left  till  it  is  cold, 
or  nearly  cold  before  you  throw  it  away,  twenty  pails  of  water 
thrown  after  it  will  not  prevent  the  smeiT. 

984.  Scalding  Milk  vessels. — Be  careful  to  scald  every  vessel 
w^hich  has  contained  milk,  having  previously  let  it  stand  for 
some  time  filled  with  cold  water,  and  never  let  any  other 
liquid  be  put  into  it  till  it  has  undergone  this  process  ;  or  what- 
ever you  put  in  will  be  spoiled. 

985.  Cleaning  Bread-pans,  dc. — Your  pan  for  keeping  bread 
should  be  wn'ped  out  every  day,  and  scalded  once  a  week ;  in 
the  same  way  clean  the  cheese-pan,  or  both  your  bread  and 
cheese  will  become  mouldy  and  musty  ;  and  cheese  should 
always  be  kept  standing  on  its  rind  ;  and  the  rind  should  be 
scraped  before  it  is  sent  to  the  table. 

98G.  Keeping  Beer. — You  should  not  let  beer  stand  in  a  pot 
or  jug;  but,  if  there  be  any  left,  put  it  into  a  clean  bottle,  with 
n  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  cork  it  tightly. 


987.    Never  suffer  tv/o  things  to  be  put  together,  which  would 
give  to  each  other  a  disagreeable  taste  or  flavor.     Never  cut 


NURSE    AND    MAIIT.  259 

bread,  or  butter,  or  meat,  with  a  knife  which  has  been  used 
for  cheese  or  onions,  or  the  bread,  butter,  or  meat  will  taste  of 
them.  Therefore,  you  should  put  the  knife  which  you  have 
used  for  these  purposes,  in  some  place  separate  from  the  other 
knives,  and  never  allow  it  to  be  put  with  them  until  it  has 
been  properly  cleaned. 

988.  Washing  Fickle  and  Preserve-Jai'S. — Whenever  pickle 
or  preserve-jars  are  empty,  wash  them  well  in  cold  water — dry 
them  thoroughly — and  put  them  in  a  dry  place.  If  you  wash 
pickle  or  preserve-jars  in  hot  water,  it  will  crack  their  glazed 
surface,  and  make  them  porous,  which  spoils  them  for  use,  as 
pickles  and  preserves  require  to  have  the  air  kept  from  them. 


989.  Cleaning  Dish-Covers. — Dish-covers  should  always  be 
wiped  and  polished  as  soon  as  they  are  removed  from  the  table. 
If  this  is  done  whilst  they  are  warm,  it  will  be  but  little  trouble; 
but,  if  the  steam  be  allowed  to  dry  on  them,  you  will  find  much 
difliculty  in  getting  the  tarnish  off  from  the  insides.  When 
they  are  wiped  and  polished,  hang  theni  up  in  their  places  im- 
mediately. 

990.  Of  the  Paste-Board^  Rolling-Pin^  &c. — After  making 
puddings  or  pastry,  wash  your  rolling-pin  and  paste-board, 
without  soap,  and  put  it  away  quite  dry.  Never  use,  nor  allow 
others  to  use,  any  of  the  lamily  dinner  or  tea-service,  in  the 
kitchen  ;  as,  if  one  thing  be  broken,  it  would  perhaps  spoil  a 
valuable  set;  but,  always  use  for  cooking,  the  plates,  dishes, 
and  cups,  provided  fur  that  purpose,  v;hich  are  usually  plain, 
and  though  of  course  equally  clean,  are  much  less  expensive. 
Keep  the  bread,  cheese,  butter,  flour,  dripping,  milk,  eggs,  and 
every  thing  else  you  may  require  in  cooking,  in  their  distinct 
and  separate  places ;  and  be  careful  to  put  them  away  as  soon 
as  you  have  done  with  them. 

991.  Of  keeping  Hot  Water. — It  is  highly  necessary  that  you 
should  keep  a  plentiful  supply  of  hot  water,  by  constantly 
fiUing-up  the  boiler  whenever  water  .is  taken  out  of  it.  A  self- 
acting  boiler  does  not  require  to  be  filled,  as  it  fills  itself  as 
fast  as  the  water  is  drawn  out;  but  you  must  be  very  careful 
in  frosty  weather,  to  watch  whether  the  water  continues  to  run ; 
for  if  the  water  in  the  pipes  becomes  frozen,  and  you  allow  the 


260  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

boiler  to  get  empty,  the  consequence  is  almost  sure  to  be,  that 
when  the  frost  melts,  the  cold  water  comes  suddenly  into  the 
hot  boiler,  and  splits  it.  The  damage  can  only  be  repaired  by 
having  a  new  boiler,  which  costs,  perhaps,  from  ten  to  twenty- 
five  dollars;  so  you  may  see  how  important  it  is  that  you 
should  prevent  so  serious  an  accident. 


992.  Of  Ventilating  Rooms. — Do  not  keep  your  kitchen 
always  hot,  and  be  sure  you  let  in  fresh  air.  U  the  attention 
of  every  master  or  mistress  of  a  family  turned  to  the  ventilation 
of  their  dwelling,  it  would  be  greatly  the  means  of  insuring 
health.  One  single  ventilator  in  the  uppermost  staircase  win- 
dow, would  effect  a  great  deal.  Great  attention  ought  to  be 
paid  to  letting  the  chamber-windows  down  from  the  top,  fre- 
quently through  the  day,  particularly  where  tc-e  family  sits. 


993.  Of  prepai'ing  Tea. —  When  the  tea-time  arrives,  it  is 
your  duty  to  cut  the  bread-and-butter,  or  make  the  toast.  You 
should  never  send  up  more  than  one  or  two  rounds  of  buttered 
toast  at  once,  according  to  the  number  to  partake  of  it,  that  it 
may  be  hot  and  fresh  when  it  is  handed  roun^.  You  must  cut 
off  the  crusts  as  close  as  you  can,  after  it  is  made  and  buttered, 
if  a  tea-urn  is  used,  it  will  be  your  duty  to  get  it  ready  in  time, 
and  put  in  the  boiling  water  when  it  is  w^anted :  you  must  also 
remember  to  make  the  urn-iron  led-hot,  by  putting  it  into  the 
kitchen  fire  after  dinner,  or  at  least  for  an  hour  before  tea-time. 
When  you  use  the  tea-urn,  be  careful  to  do  as  follows: — 

Take  care  that  the  water  boils,  and  that  the  urn-heater  ia 
red-hot ;  then,  in  the  first  place,  dust  the  urn,  and  put  the  boiling 
water  into  it,  before  you  put  in  the  heater;  and,  to  prevent 
giving  an  unpleasant  taste,  or  spoiling  the  boiling  water  by 
dust,  or  particles  of  the  hot  iron,  (which  may  rub  off  the  heater 
as  you  are  putting  it  into  its  place,)  be  careful  to  put  on  the 
lound  rim,  or  ring,  before  you  put  in  the  red-hot  heater ;  and 
be  sure,  also,  to  avoid  pouring  any  water  into  the  place  where 
the  heater  goes  ;  otherwise,  when  the  iron  is  put  in,  the  bteam 
jnay  fly  up  in  your  face,  and  scald  you  seriously.  Taking  the 
urn  up  into  the  parlor  or  drawing-room,  is  the  housemaid's 
business ;  and  she  should  not  forget  the  rug  to  place  it  on,  or 
the  heat  issuing  from  it  will  ceitainly  spoil  the  polished  table: 
and  it  is  also  the  housemaid's  business  to  empty  the  urn  when 
done  w^ith  which  she  must  be  careful  to  turn  upside  down,  to 
drain. 


MOTHER,    NURSE    AND    MAID.  261 

994.  Taking  care  of  the  Fire. — The  cookm aid's  last  duties 
of  the  day,  are — to  take  great  care  that  the  kitchen  fire  is  so 
nearly  out,  as  to  be  quite  safe ;  and  that  nothing  is  left  hanging 
before  the  fire-place ;  then  she  must  see  that  the  kitchen  win- 
dows and  shutters  are  fastened,  and  lock  and  bolt  all  the  doors 
and  windows  that  have  not  been  fastened  earlier  in  the  evening. 


995.  Cleaning  Knives^  Forks ^  do. — If  a  lad  or  man-servant 
is  kept,  he  cleans  the  steel  knives  and  forks,  as  well  as  the 
shoes  and  boots;  and  also  brushes  the  gentlemen's  clothes: 
but,  in  that  large  number  of  families  who  keep  no  boy  nor  man, 
it  becom.es  the  business  of  the  cookmaid  to  clean  the  steel 
knives  and  forks.  [See  the  best  manner  of  preparing  the  knife- 
board,  &c.,  in  another  part  of  this  book.] 

996.  Care  of  Table-Knives. — Be  careful  to  keep  a  good  edge  • 
to  your  knives,  and  do  your  utmost  to  preserve  them  from 
notches,  especially  the  carving-knife,  otherwise  a  hot  joint  may 
get  cold  while  the  knife  has  to  be  sent  from  table  to  be  sharp- 
ened. A  ke'en  edge  may  be  given  by  cleaning  alone,  if  care 
be  taken,  in  passing  the  knife  from  you,  not  to  let  the  edge 
lean  on  the  board,  but,  in  drawing  it  towards  you,  to  lean  with 
a  little  pressure  or.  the  edge. 

The  knives  which  are  not  in  daily  use,  should,  -after  being 
wiped  with  a  dry  cloth,  be  put  into  the  cases,  or  wrapped  in 
\evy  di-y  brown  paper,  and  so  placed  as  not  to  touch  each  other, 
the  same  way  as  the  cutlers  keep  them.  Great  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  place  in  which  they  are  put  is  perfectly  dry — 
as  all  articles  made  of  steel  have  a  tendency  to  contract  rust, 
that  metal  having  the  property  of  extracting  damp  from  the 
atmosphere,  or  from  anything  moist  near  to  it.  If  the  ivory 
handles  of  the  knives  and  forks  get  stained,  or  become  discolor- 
ed, mix  a  table-spoonful  of  water  with  a  few  drops  of  spirits  of 
salt — rub  it  well  on  with  a  little  bit  of  clean  rag — wash  it  ofT 
with  cold  water — and  wipe  them  perfectly  dry. 


997.  Of  cleaning  Boots  and  Shoes. — Where  no  man-servant 
is  kept,  the  cook  or  housemaid  must  clean  the  shoes  and  boots. 
First,  scrape  the  dirt  off  the  shoe  with  a  wooden  knife,  or  piece 
of  firewood,  cut  to  something  of  an  edge.  When  the  worst 
of  the  dirt  is  thus  taken  off,  use  your  hard  brush  to  remove 
the  remainder,  or  the  leather  will  never  be  bright.     Stir  tl>e 


262  MRS.  rale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

blacking  with  a  short  fine  sponge,  tied  round  one  end  of  it; 
and,  with  this,  put  some  blacking  on  tlie  blacking-brush,  and 
black  the  shoe  all  over ;  use  the  polishing-brush  directly,  while 
it  remains  damp,  and  rub  it  lightly,  yet  briskly,  till  the  shoe 
shines  perfectly  bright.  When  boots  or  shoes  are  laid  down 
before  a  fire  to  dry,  Jet  them  be  placed  at  a  good  distance,  or 
the  leather  will  harden  and  shrink,  and  the  shoes  get  out  of 
shape. 

998.  Of  cleaning  Candlesticks. — It  is  the  duty  of  the  cook- 
maid  to  clean  the  chamber  candlesticks  used  by  the  servants, 
and  the  candlesticks  belonging  to  the  kitchen  (those  used  by 
the  family  in  the'pailors,  drawing-rooms,  and  best  bed-rooms, 
belong  to  the  housemaid's  work).  Before  you  commence,  have 
a  sheet  of  thick  brown  paper  laid  on  a  table,  or  on  whatever 
else  you  intend  to  clean  them,  to  save  making  a  grease.  Then 
scrape  off  the  grease  on  to  the  brown  paper  with  a  piece  of  fire- 
w^ood,  and  put  all  you  scrape  off  into  your  kitchen-stuff.  The 
candlesticks  should  then  be  put,  upside  down,  in  the  deepest 
candlestick,  at  a  little  distance  from  the  fire,  so  that  all  the 
grease  may  melt,  and  drain  into  one.  This  grease  should  also 
be  put  into  the  kitchen  stuff,  and  the  candlesticks  wiped  per- 
fectly clean  with  the  candlestick-rag,  or  with  a  cloth  kept  for 
that  purpose.  The  polishing  should  be  done  with  a  little  dry 
rotten-stone,  or  dry  whiting,  put  on  a  leather.  The  cookmaid 
has  usually  a  candle-box  provided  for  her,  into  which  she  puts 
all  the  pieces  of  candle,  iov  kitchen  use.  This  box  should  be 
lined  with  white  paper,  which  should  be  frequently  renewed,  or 
the  candles  will  become  very  dirty,  and  be  unpleasant  to  burn, 
from  bits  of  the  snuif  sticking  to  thenj.  Always  set  the  candles 
in  the  candlesticks  in  the  foi-e  part  of  the  day,  that  they  be 
ready  when  wanted,  and  that  all  the  diity  work  may  be  done 
before  cooking  commences. 


999.  Washing- Day. — If  the  washing  be  done  at  home,  the 
cookmaid  will  have  to  assist";  and  the  changes  of  linen,  and  the 
kitchen  thhigs,  usually  fall  to  her  share.  She  generally  fuld.s 
and  irons  all  but  the  fine  things  and  the  dresses.  It  is  usual 
also  for  her  to  fill  the  copper;  and  for  the  housemaid  to  son; 
the  clothes  ready  for  the  wash.  Much  time  as  well  as  labor 
will  be  saved  by  preparing  the  clothes  for  the  wash  the  day  be- 
fore the  washing-da)'  ;  that  is    by  putting  them  in  soak,   tha 


MISTRESS,    MQTHERj    NURSE    AND    MAID.  263 

fine  things  and  coarse  things  in  difforent  tubs,  after  having  ex 
{iniiiied,  and  rubbed  with  soap  such. places  as  are  most  dirty, 
such  as  the  colkirs  and  wristbands  of  shirts,  the  parts  of  table 
chjths  which  are  most  soiled,  and  any  place  in  the  different  arti 
cles  which  would  require  more  than  usual  rubbing.  Indeed, 
everything  should  be  prepared  the  day  before  ;  the  copper  filled 
with  soft  water,  the  tubs  rinsed  and  wiped,  inside  and  out 
(taking  care  that  they  do  not  leak).  The  best  way  to  prevent 
the  tubs  from  leaking,  is  to  turn  them  bottom  upvvards  after 
using,  and  keep  the  bottom  tilled  with  water,  without  which 
they  will  not  only  leak  but  fall  to  pieces,  in  summer  weather. 


1000.  Care^  of  Clothes-lines,  dx, — Gh^the^-lines,  when  done 
with,  should  be  wiped  quite  clean,  and  put  away  dry  in  a  bag, 
for  future  use,  or  they  will  dirty  the  clothes.  A  bag  should 
also  be  kept  for  the  pegs  ;  and  both  bags  should  be  kept  in  a 
dry  place. 


1001.  Folding  and  Mangling, — Before  you  begin  to  fold  the 
clothes,  let  the-  board  be  quite  clean  and  dry,  and  a  clean  linen 
cloth  placed  upon  it.  Separate  those  things  w^hich  are  to  be 
mangled,  and  those  which  are  for  rougli-drying.  Turn  sliirts, 
shifts,  night-gowns,  pillow-cases,  petticoats,  &;c.,  the  right  side 
outwards;  fold  them  veiy, smoothly,  and  sprinkle  them  to  a 
proper  dampness  for  ironing.  If  the  collai's,  wristbands,  and 
frills,  or  pleated  front  of  a  shirt,  be  dipped  in  a  little  starch, 
then  into  water,  and  rolled  up  without  squeezing,  it  will  bring 
the  whole  of  the  shirt  to  a  proper  dampness,  when  it  has  lain 
for  some  time. 

The  articles  usually  niangled  are,  sheets,  towels,  table-linen, 
pillow-cases,  and  other  straight  things  ;  but  if  there  be  any 
folds,  they  will  not  look  well  when  mangled.  Pearl-buttons 
will  break  in  the  n)angle,  and  cut  the  cloth,  therefore,  all  things 
with  buttons,  and  even  pillow-cases,  if  they  have  buttons, 
should  not  be  manijrled. 


1002.  Of  Ironing. — The  ironing-blanket  should  be  made  of 
a  thick  kind  of  flannel,  called  swan's-skin,  and  a  coarse  cloth 
should  be  spread  between  it  and  the  board.  When  you  are 
ironing,  be  careful  to  try  your  iron  first  upon  some  coarse 
article,  or  one  of  little  value,  for  fear  of  its  soiling  or  singeing 
the  better  clothes.     Let  the  heat  be  in  proportion  to  the  article 


264  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

you  are  about  to  iron,  and  be  sure  to  make  every  part  per 
fectly  smooth. 

After  they  are  ironed,  the  things  should  be  hung  upon  the 
horse  to  air.  The  cookmaid  is  now  done  with  the  washing, 
as  it  is  the  housemaid's  business  to  air  them,  and  to  place  them 
in  the  drawers,  when  aired;  but  in  many  families,  the  putting 
of  them  away  is  done  by  the  mistress  of  the  house,  or  by  some 
of  the  young  ladies. 

In  ironing  the  skirts  of  dresses,  it  is  best  and  most  proper  to 
have  a  board  about  thirteen  inches  wide  and  four  feet  long,  on 
which  fasten,  with  tapes,  an  ironing-blanket ;  place  one  end  of 
it  on  a  table,  and  the  other  end  on  the  dresser,  or  something 
that  is  firm,  of  tl^e  same  height  as  the  table.  In  using  this 
board,  pass  it  through  the  skirt,  taking  care  that  the  wet  part 
of  the  dress  falls  into  a  clothes-basket,  or  a  cloth,  which  you 
must  first  put  on  the  floor,  under  the  middle  of  the  board,  to 
save  the  skirt  from  being  soiled  ;  and  turn  the  skirt  of  the  dress 
round  the  board,  as  you  iron  it. 

1003.  Save  the  Rags, — All  rags  of  cotton  or  linen  should  be 
saved  by  the  cookmaid ;  they  should  never  be  thrown  away 
because  they  are  not^lean.  Mop-rags,  lamp-rags,  all  should 
be  w^ashed,  dried  and  put  in  the  rag-bug.  There  is  no  need  of 
expending  soap  on  them  ;  just  boil  them  out  in  the  suds  after 
you  have  done  washing. 

Linen  rags  should  be  carefully  saved ;  for  they  are  ex- 
tremely useful  in  sickness.  If  they  have  become  dirty  and 
worn  by  cleaning  silver,  &;c.,  wash  them,  and  scrape  them  into 
lint. 


PART  YL 

SOME  HL\TS  ABOUT  AGRICULTURE,  GARDENING, 
DOMESTIC  ANIMALS,  ETC. 

Of  Soil,  Hay  and  the  Grains —  Of  Ver/etables- — Destroying  Fer* 
rets,  Beptiles,  Eats  and  other  Vermin — Mowers,  Fruits, 
Trees — Thnher — Buildings, 

1004.  Advantage  of  Knowing  something  about  Agriculture, — 
In  a  work  designed,  chiefly,  for  women,  it  may  seenn  odd  to  find 
farming  treated  of,  as  though  they  needed  such  information. 
But  while  far  the  greater  portion  of  American  men*  are  till- 
ers of  the  soil,  it  would  be  questioning  the  good  sense  as  w^ell 
as  affection  of  their  wives  and  daughters  to  suppose  them  indif- 
ferent to  such  pursuits. 

The  husband  will  work  with  more  pleasure,  w^hen  feeling  his 
wife  takes  an  interest  in  his  employments.  The  daughter  of  a 
farmer  should  be  ready  to  read  her  Other's  books  and  papers 
on  agriculture,  w^henever  he  desires  it,  and  assist  in  the  garden, 
orchai'd,  and  among  domestic  animals,  when  such  cases  are 
suitable  for  her. 

So,  trusting  you  have  a  garden-hoe  and  pruning-knife  for 
your  own  use,  and  can  assist  in  transplanting  flowers  and 
shrubs,  I  shall  give'  rules  for  these,  and  also  a  few  hints  ou 
other  matters  connected  with  country  life  and  the  economy  of 
farming.  These  rules  are  selected,  chiefly,  from  British  authori- 
ties. England  is  famous  for  its  agricultural  science  and  modes 
of  gardening,  and  planting  trees.  Such  knowledge  and  taste  are 
much  needed  in  our  land.  But  be  careful,  fair  girl  and  comely 
matron,  and  do  not  expose  your  health  or  injure  your  personal 
appearance  while  helping  m  out-door  work.  A  sun-bonnet  or 
broad-brimmed  straio  hat  and  thick  gloves  should  always  be 
worn,  when  engaged  in  such  employments. 

*  The  rural  populatiou  of  America  ia  now  over  twenty  millions. 


Zb  )  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1005.  Important  Fact  in  Agriculture, — Whatever    may  be 

the  Datuieof  the  soil,  or  of  the  crop  cultivated,  it  should  always 
be  the  aim  of  the  farmer  to  grow  flill  crops.  Partial  and  some- 
times extensive  failures  will  even  then  but  too  often  occur ;  but 
to  neglect  making  the  best  known  preparations,  or  only  to  pre- 
pare for  half  a  crop,  has  a  direct  tendency  to  unprofitable 
farming. 


1006.  Manure  for  Clover. — Some  farmers  make  it  a  rule  to 
spread  about  fifty  bushels  per  acre  of  ashes  over  their  clover  in 
March*,  which  they  find,  from  long  experience,  to  be  a  good 
manure  for  this  grass.  Wood-ashes  will  be  useful  on  any  soil  ; 
coal-ashes  chiefly  on  stiff  clays.  On  the  stiff  soils  of  some  parts 
of  Buckinghamshire,  ashes  of  all  kinds  are  much  esteemed,  and 
have  risen  to  a  high  price. 

1007.  Hoiv  to  preserve  Manure. — Put  it  in  heaps,  and  cover 
it  with  earth  two  feet  deep.  Never  leave  manure  in  the  baru 
yard  ;  put  it  all,  year  by  year,  on  your  land. 

1008.  Dr.  Taylor'' s  Easy  Method  of  ascertaining  the  Qualities 
of  Marl ^  Lime  Stones,  or  Quick  Lime,  for  the  purposes  of  Agri^ 
culture. — This  was  a  communication  by  Dr.  Taylur  to  the  Man- 
chester AgricultOral  Society  ;  the  general  use  of  marl  tsiid 
lime  as  nianures,  having  prompted  him  to  point  out  the  import- 
ance of  an  easy  and  certain  method  (^fdeterujining  the  qualities 
of  di^ei'ent  earths  and  stones,  iind  asceitaining  the  quantity  of 
calcareous  earth  in  their  composition;  their  value,  in  agricul- 
ture, commonly  increasing  in  proportion  to  the  greater  quantity 
of  it  which  they  contain.  The  process  recommended  is  thus 
described: — The  marl  or  stone  being  dried,  and  reduced  to 
powder,  put  half  an  ounce  of  it  into  a  half  pint  glass,  pouring 
in  clear  water  till  the  glass  is  half  full ;  then  gradually  add  a 
small  quantity  of  strong  marine  acid,  commonly  called  spirit 
of  salt,  and  .stir  the  mixture  well  together.  As  sooa  as  the 
effervescence  thus  excited  subsides,  add  a  little  more  marine 
acid  ;  thus  continuing  the  operation  v/hile  any  of  the  earthy 
matter  appears  to  di^^solve;  and  till  the  liquor,  after  being  well 
stirred  and  aUowed  to  stand  for  half  an  hour,  appears  sensibly 
acid  to  the  taste.  When  the  mixture  has  subsided,  if  the  liquor 
above  it  be  colorless,  that  marl  or  lime-stone  is  the  best  which 
leaves  the  least  in  quantity  of  sediment  or  deposit  in  the  bot- 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE^    BTC.  2C7 

toiTi  of  the  glass.  This  experiment  is  sufficient  to  determine 
which  of  the  samples  tried  is  the  most  proper  for  the  uses  oi' 
agriculture:  as  pure  calcareous  .earth  or  lime,  which  is  the 
earth  useful  in  agriculture,  will  be  entirely  dissolved;  but  clay 
or  sand  will  not  be  sensibly  acted  on  by  the  acid.  Where  great 
accuracy  is  required  in  determining  the  experiment,  lay  a  soft 
spongy  paper,  of  which  the  weight  is  exactly  taken,  in  an 
earthen  colander — for  no  metallic  vessel,  or  implement  for  stir- 
ring, (fee,  must  be  used  in  any  part  of  the  process — and,  pour- 
ing the  saturated  mixture  of  earth  and  acid  on  it,  let.  all  the 
liquor  filter  through,  then  pour  a  little  clear  water  over  the 
earthy  matter  remaining  on  the  filter ;  and,  when  that  water  has 
also  filtered  through,  di-y  the  paper  with  the  earthy  matter  on 
it  which  remains  undissolved,  when  the  deficiency  found,  on 
weighing  them,  from  their  original  vveight,  will  discover  what 
portion  of  the  marie  or  lime  has  been  dissolved  in  the  acid. 
What  quantity  of  eaithy  matter  has  been  dissolved  may  be 
made  evident  to  the  sight,  by  gradually  adding,  to  the  liquor 
which  has  been  filtered  through  the  paper^  a  clear  solution  of 
pearl-ashes,  or  ashes  of  burnt  wood  ;  this  w^iil  occasion  a  pre- 
cipitation of  the  contained  lime  or  calcareous  earth  to  the 
bottom  of  the  vessel,  which  precipitate  must  be  dried  and 
weighed. 


1009.  To  preserve  Seeds,  when  sown,  from  Vermin. — Steep 
the  grain  or  seed  three  or  four  hours,  or  a  sufficient  time  iov  it 
to  penetrate  the  skin,  or  husk,  in  a  strong  solutioii  of  liver  of 
sulphur. 

1010.  Stripped  Grass  recommended  for  Hay. — The  hid i an 
striped  or  riband  grass,  which  is  cultivated  in  gardens,  would 
answer  admirably  for  hay.  In  rich  grounds  j-'lants  are  fre- 
quently four  feet  high ;  what  a  burden  of  hay  would  a  field  so 
cropped  produce  I  Cattle  are  exceedingly  fond  of  it;  the  seeds 
are  easily  saved,  so  that  a  person  might  soon  have  enough  for 
a  rood,  and  from  that  save  iigain  and  again,  for  as  many  acres 
as  he  might  choose.  It  is  p'robable  that  the  crop  might  be 
much  too  large  to  be  njade  on  the  field  where  it  grew  ;  but 
if  so,  it  would  be  worth  while  to  carry  part  into  another  field. 


1011.    When  to  cut  Bye-grass  for  Hay. — Rye-gra^s,  if  mown 
for  hay,  should  be  cut  when  in  blossom,  and  nut  green.     The 


268  >fP-s.  hale's  receipts  for  thb  million. 

hay  made  from  it  does  not  heat  or  sweat  so  much,  arid  is  very 
good  for  horses,  but  not  for  sheep  and  cattle.  Jf  it  is  suffered 
to  stand  too  long  before  it  is  cut,  the  seeds  rob  the  plants  of 
their  juices,  and  leave  it  no  better  than  wheat  or  rye-straw.. 


1012.  To  irrevent  the  Smut  in  Wheat, — The  means  (to  pre- 
vent smut)  are  simple  ;  and  no  other  than  immersing  the  seed 
in  pure  water,  and  repeatedly  scouring  it  therein,  just  before  it 
is  sown  or  dibbled  in.  Whether  well,  spring,  or  river  water 
be  used,  is  indifferent;  but  repeated  stirring  and  change  of 
water  is  essential  to  remove  the  possible  particles  of  infectiou 
that  may  have  imperceptibly  adhered  to  the  seed  ;  thus  puri- 
fied, the  subsequent  crop  will  be  perfect  in  itself,  and  seed  suc- 
cessively so  likewise,  if  there  be  no  adjacent  fields  from  whence 
this  contamination  mav  be  wafted. 

The  addition  of  any  alkaline  or  earthy  salt,  by  increasing 
the  specific  gravity  of  the  water,  is  of  advantage  in  floating  off 
the  unsound  grains,  and  after  the  seed  is  washed,  it  should  be 
dried  inmiediately  by  rubbing  it  w^ith  newly  slaked  lime. 


1013.  Fertilizing  Steeps  fur  Turnips,  Wheat ^  or  Barley. — • 
Steep  turnip  seed  twelve  hours  in  train  oil,  which  strain  through 
a  fine  seive,  and  immediately  thoroughly  mix  the  quantity  of 
seed  you  would  wish  to  sow  on  an  acre,  with  three  bushels  of 
dry  loamy  earth,  finely  sifted,  which  drill  (or  sow)  as  soon  as 
possible ;  and  when  the  plants  begin  to  appear,  throw  a  small 
quantity  of  soot  over  them. 


1014.  Steep  for  Wheats  Barley^  or  other  Grain, — Put  a  peck 
and  a  half  of  wood-ashes,  and  a  peck  of  unslaked  lime,  into  a 
tub  that  wiil  hold  forty  gallons ;  then  add  as  much  water  as 
will  slake  the  lime,  and  render  the  niixture  into  the  consistence 
of  stiff  mortar.  In  this  state  it  should  remain  ten  or  twelve 
hours ;  then  add  as  much  water  as  will  reduce  the  mortar  to  a 
pulp,  by  thorough  stirring.  In  this  state  fill  the  tub  wuth  w^ater, 
and  occasionally  keep  stirring  for  two  or  three  days.  After 
which,  draw  off  the  clear  ly^i  into  an  open  vessel,  and  gradually 
put  the  gralii  into  it:  skim  ofi'  the  light  grains;  and,  after  the 
corn  has  been  steeped  three  hours,  spread  it  on  a  clean  floor 
to  dry,  when  it  will  be  sufficiently  prepared  for  drilling  or  sow- 
ing. The  lye  will  retain  its  full  virtue,  and  may  be  repeated]/ 
used. 


HINTS   ABOUT    AGRICULTURE,    ETC,  269 

Remarh, — It  has  been  doubted  whether  steeps  are  of  any 
use,  except  so  far  as  they  facilitate  the  separation  of  the  light 
grains,  and  wash  off  the  seeds  of  the  parasite  plants,  which  are 
thought  to  occasion  smut^  &c.  In  the  best-cultivated  parts  of 
Scotland,  seed-wheat  is  steeped  in  stale  urine,  or  in  a  brine 
made  with  common  salt,  which,  by  increasing  the  specific  gravit}^ 
of  the  water,  floats  the  unsound  grains.  The  seed  is  w^ell  wash 
ed,  and  then  dried,  by  mixing  it  w^ith  fresh  slaked  lime,  and 
rubbing  it  briskly  with  a  wooden  shovel.  The  quick-lime  and 
rubbing  is  thought  to  assist  in  cleansing  the  seed ;  but,  indepen- 
dent of  that,  the  mere  drying  the  seed  quickly  is  convenient. 


1015.  To  sow  Wheat  to  advantage^  withoxit  laying  on  Manure. 
— It  has  been  found  expedient  sometimes  to  sow  wheat  without 
laying  on  any  manure ;  and,  in  the  beginning  of  February,  to 
collect  twenty  bushels  of  lime,  unslaked,  for  every  acre,  and 
forty  bushels  of  sand,  or  the  rubbish  of  a  brick-kiln  ;  then,  about 
the  end  of  the  month,  to  slake  the  lime,  which  doubles  the 
measure,  and  mix  it  well  with  the  sand,  and,  immediately  after- 
wards, to  scatter  it  by  way  of  top-dressing  over  the  green  wheat. 
As  rain  generally  succeeds,  it  is  soon  washed  down  to  the  roots 
of  the  plants,  and  gives  them  a  vigor  .and  strength,  which,  to 
those  who  never  made  the  experiment,  is  astonishing.  The 
lime,  sand,  and  rubbish,  are  particularly  useful  in  breaking  the 
tenacity  of  stiff  clays.  In  a  clay  soil,  where  coal  was  yQxj 
cheap,  the  clay  was  slightly  burned  in  the  field,  and  spread 
over  the  surface,  as  the  cheapest  way  of  subduing  the  coarse- 
ness and  stiflfness  of  the  soil.  The  refuse  or  rubbish  from  mines 
in  the  neighborhood  has  been  burned,  and  applied  w^ith  advan- 
tage on  the  same  principle. 


1016.  Approved  method  of  soioing  Wheat  on  narrow  ridges. — 
The  seedsman  should  walk  up  one  side  of  the  bed  and  down 
the  other  side,  always  keeping  his  face,  and  the  hand  with  which 
he  sows,  towards  the  bed  he  is  sowing;  his  eye  must  be  con- 
tinually on  the  edge  of  the  opposite  interfurrow,  and  deliver  his 
seed  principally  on  the  side  of  the  bed  next  to  it:  as  he  returns, 
the  sides  will  of  course  be  reversed,  and  the  beds  become  evenly 
seeded. 

1017.  Great  utility  of  sowing  Buckwheat, — In  light  lands, 
buckwheat  may  be  raised  to  groat  advantage,  as  a  lucrative 


2Y0  ^'^s.  hale'3  receipts  for  the  mtlliok. 

crop.  When  green,  it  is  a  fine  feed  foi  milch-kine ;  and  when 
ploughed,  is  a  fine  preparation  for  the  land.  It  fattens  pigs 
with  great  economy,  and,  passed  through  the  mill,  is,  with  ear- 
rot,  a  capital  feed  for  work-horses.  The  seed  is  excellent  food 
for  poultry,  and,  when  ground,  makes  good  bread. 


1018  To  keep  Crows  from  Corn. — Take  a  quart  of  train  oil, 
and  as  much  turpentine  and  bruised  gunpowder;  boil  them  to- 
gether, and,  when  hot,  dip  pieces  of  rags  in  the  mixture,  and 
fix  them  on  sticks  in  the  field.  About  four  are  sufficient  for  an 
acre  of  corn. 


1019.  Proper  Soil  for  the  Culture  of  Turnips. — Sandy  loams, 
in  good  heart,  are  most  favorable  to  their  growth,  though  they 
will  thrive  well  on  strong  loams,  if  they  are  not  wet;  but,  on 
clayey,  thin,  or  wet  soils,  they  are  not  worth  cultivating;  for, 
though  a  good  crop  may  be  raised  on  such  ground,  when  well 
prepared  and  dunged,  more  damage  is  done  by  taking  off  the 
turnips  in  winter,  in  poaching  the  soil,  than  the  value  of  the 
crop  will  repay. 


1020.  Instructions  for  raising  Potatoes  to  advantage, — The 
earth  should  be  dug  twelve  inches  deep,  if  the  soil  will  allow 
it ;  after  this,  a  hole  should  be  opened  about  six  inches  deepj 
and  horse-dung,  or  long-litter,  should  be  put  therein,  about  three 
inches  thick;  this  hole  should  not  be  more  than  twelve  inches 
diameter.  Upon  this  dung  or  litter,  a  potato  should  be  planted 
whole,  upon  which  a  little- more  dung  should  be  shaken,  and 
then  the  earth  must  be  put  thereon.  In  like  manner,  the  whole 
plot  of  ground  must  be  planted,  taking  care  that  the  potatoes 
be  at  least  sixteen  inches  apart.  When  the  young  shoots  make 
their  appearance,  they  should  have  fresh  mould  drawm  round 
them  with  a  hoe ;  and  if  the  tender  shoots  are  covered,  it  will 
prevent  the  frost  from  injuring  them  :  they  should  again  be 
earthed  when  the  shoots  make  a  second  appearance,  but  not 
covered,  as,  in  all  probability,  the  season  will  be  less  severe. 

A  plentiful  supply  of  m.uuld  should  be  given  them  ;  and  the 
person  who  performs  this  business  should  never  tread  upon  the 
plant,  or  the  hillock  that  is  raised  round  it,  as  the  lighter  the 
earth  is,  the  more  room  the  potato  will  have  to  expand. 

A  gentleman  obtained  from  a  single  root,  thus  planted,  very 
near  forty  pounds'  weight  of  large  potatoes;   and,  from  almost 


HIXT3    ABOUT    AGRICULTURi:,    ETC.  2*1 

every  other  root  upon  the  same  plot  of  ground,  fiom  fifteen  to 
twerity  pounds'  weight ;  and,  except  the  soil  be  stony  or  gra- 
velly, ten  pounds,  or  half  a  peck,  of  potatoes,  may  almost  be 
obtained  from  each  root,  by  pursuing  the  foregoing  method. 

1021.  Use  of  the  Dandelion, — This  is  an  excellent  salad,  and 
a  good  green.  Where  it  grows  as  a  weed,  cover  it  early  in  the 
spring,  with  rotten  tan,  or  decayed  leaves;  it  will  soon 
come  up. 

1022.  Prepotatioiis  for  Carrots  and  other  winged  Seeds. — 
Take  two  bushels  of  dry  loamy  earth,  finely  sifted ;  to  which 
add  one  bushel  of  bran,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  carrot  seed, 
cleaned  from  stalks,  and  well  rubbed  between  the  hands  ;  all 
which  thoroughly  nsix  together,  and  drill  (or  sow).  The  car- 
rot seed  will  stick  to  the  bran,  which,  with  the  earth,  will  be 
regularly  discharged. 

1023.  To  raise  a  Salad  quickly. — Steep  lettuce-seed,  mustard* 
cresses,  &:c.,  in  aqua  vitf^.  Mix  a  little  pigeon's  dung  with 
some  mould,  and  powdered  slacked  lime.  In  forty-eight  hours 
the  salad  will  be  produced. 


]024.  Important  Discovery  relative  to  the  Preservation  of 
Grain, — To  preserve  rye  and  secure  it  from  insects  and  rats, 
nothinfiT  more  is  necessarv  than  not  to  winnow  it  after  it  is 
thrashed,  but  merely  separate  it  from  the  straw,  and  to  stow  it 
in  the  granaries,  mixed  with  the  chaif.  In  this  state  it  has  been 
kept  for  more  than  three  years  without  experiencing  the 
smallest  alteration,  and  even  without  the  necessity  of  being 
turned  to  preserve  it  from  humidity  and  fermentation.  Kats 
and  mice  may  be  prevented  from  entering  the  barn,  by  putting 
some  wild  vine  or  hedge  plants  upon  the  heaps;  the  smell  ot 
the  wood  is  so  offensive  to  these  animals,  that  they  will  not 
approach  it.  The  experiment  has  not  yet  been  made  with 
wheat  and  other  kinds  of  grain,  bnt  they  may  probably  be  pre- 
served in  the  chaff  with  equal  advantage.  It  must  however  be 
observed,  that  the  hui-ks  and  corns  of  rye  are  different  from 
most  other  grain.  It  has  been  sown  near  houses  where  many 
poultry  were  kept,  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  up  a  crop  of 
grass,  because  the  poultry  do  not  destroy  it,  as  they  would 
have  done  wheat,  oats,  or  even  barley  in  the  same  situation. 


2Y2  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1025.  To  preserve  Grain  in  Sacks, — Provide  a  reed  cane,  or 
other  hollow  stick,  made  so  by  gluing  together  two  grooved 
sticks;  let  it  be  about  three  feet  nine  inches  long;  and  that  it 
may  be  easier  thrust  down  to  the  bottona  of  the  corn  in  the 
sack,  its  end  to  be  naade  to  taper  to  a  point,  by  a  wooden  plug 
that  is  fixed  in,  and  stops  the  orifice.  About  one  hundred  and 
fifty  small  holes,  of  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  are  to  be 
bored  on  all  sides  of  the  stick,  from  its  bottom  for  about  two 
feet  ten  inches  of  its  length  ;  but  no  nearer  to  the  surface  of 
the  corn,  lest  too  great  a  proportion  of  the  air  should  escape 
there.  By  winding  a  packthread  in  a  spiral  form  round  the 
stick,  the  boring  of  the  holes  may  be  the  better  regulated,  so  as 
to  have  them  about  half  an  inch  distant  towards  the  bottom, 
but  gradually  at  wider  distances,  so  as  to  be  an  inch  asunder  at 
the  upper  part ;  by  which  means  the  lower  part  of  the  corn 
will  have  its  due  proportion  of  fresh  air.  To  the  top  of  the 
stick  let  there  be  fixed  a  leathern  pipe  ten  inches  long ;  which 
pipe  is  to  be  distended  by  two  yards  of  spiral  wire,  coiled  up 
within  it.  At  the  upper  part  of  the  pipe  is  fixed  a  taper 
wooden  faucet,  into  which  the  nose  of  a  common  household  bel- 
lows is  to  be  put,  in  order  to  ventilate  the  corn. 

If  wheat,  when  first  put  into  sacks,  be  thus  aired,  every  other 
or  third  day,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  its  damp  sweats  which 
would  hurt  it,  will,  in  a  few  weeks,  be  carried  off  to  such  a  de- 
gree, that  it  will  afterwards  keep  sweet  with  very  little  airings 
as  has  been  found  by  experience. 

By  the  same  means  other  kinds  of  seeds,  as  well  as  wheat, 
may  be  kept  sweet  either  in  sacks  or  small  bins. 

1026.  To  preserve  Oats  from  being  musty. — Richard  Fermor, 
Esq.  of  Tusmore,  in  Oxfordshire,  has  in  his  stable  a  contri- 
vance to  let  oats  down  from  a  loft  out  of  a  vessel,  like  the 
hopper  of  a  mill,  whence  they  fall  into  a  square  pipe,  let  into  a 
wall,  about  four  inches  diagonal,  which  comes  into  a  cupboard 
set  into  a  wall,  but  with  its  end  so  near  the  bottom,  that  there 
shall  never  be  above  a  desirable  quantity  in  the  cup-board  at  a 
time,  which  being  taken  away,  another  parcel  succeeds;  by  this 
motion  the  oats  are  kept  constantly  sweet  (the  taking  away 
one  gallon  moving  the  whole  above),  which,  when  laid  up 
otherwise  in  great  quantities,  frequently  grow  musty. 

1027.  Easy  Method  of  destroying  Mites  or  Weevils  in  Gra^ 
varies, — A  very  sagacious  farmer  has  succeeded  in  destroying 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURK,    ETC.  273 

weevils,  by  a  very  easy  process.  In  the  month  of  June,  when 
his  granaries  were  all  empty,  he  collected  great  quantities  of 
the  largest  sized  ants,  and  scattered  them  about  the  places  in- 
fested with  the  weevils.  The  ants  immediately  fell  upon  and 
devoured  every  one  of  them  ;  nor  have  any  weevils  since  that 
time  been  seen  on  his  premises. 

Remark, — The  large,  or  wood-ant,   feeds  entirely  on  animal 
substances ;  of  course  it  would  not  destrov  the  corn. 


1028.  To  preserve  Carrots^  Parsnips^  and  Beets,  all  the  Win- 
ter,— A  little  before  the  frost  sets  in,  draw  your  beets  or  pars- 
nips out  of  the  ground,  and  lay  them  in  the  house,  burying 
their  roots  in  sand  to  the  neck  of  the  plant,'  and  ranging 
them  one  by  another  in  a  shelving  position ;  then  another 
bed  of  sand,  and  another  of  beets,  and  continue  this  order 
•to  the  last.  By  pursuing  this  method,  they  will  keep  very 
fresh.  When  they  are  wanted  for  use,  draw  them  as  they 
stand,  not  out  of  the  middle  or  sides. 


1029.  To  preserve  Turnips  from  Frost. — The  best  way  is  to 
stack  them  up  in  straw  in  the  following  manner  : — One  load  of 
any  sort  of  dry  straw  is  sufficient  fijr  an  acre  of  fifty  tons^ 
weight.  Pull  up  the  turnips,  top  and  tail  them,  then  throw 
them  in  a  sort  of  windrow,  and  let  them  lie  a  few  days  to  dry. 

First,  lay  a  layer  of  straw  next  the  ground,  and  upon  it  a 
layer  of  turnips  about  half  a  yard  thick;  then  another  layer  of 
straw  ;  so  go  on  alternately  with  a  layer  of  straw  and  a  layer 
of  turnips  ;  every  layer  grows  narrower,  till  it  comes  to  a 
point  at  the  top,  like  a  sugar-loaf.  The  last  layer  must  be 
straw,  which  serves  to  keep  all  dry.  You  must  observe 
always  when  you  have  laid  a  layer  of  turnips,  to  stroke  or 
lap  over  the  ends  of  the  under  layer  of  straw,  in  order  to 
keep  them  close  or  from  tumbling  out.  The  heap  should  be  as 
large  as  a  hay-cock;  the  tops  may  be  given  to  sheep  or  cattle 
as  they  are  cut  off. 


1030.  Another, — Turnips  placed  in  layers,  though  not  thick, 
have  been  found,  after  a  few  weeks,  to  rot.  In  some  places 
the  following  method  is  adopted.  Lay  the  turnips  close 
together  in  a  single  layer,  on  a  grass  fitdd,  near  the  farm- 
yard, and  scatter  some  straw  and  branches  of  trees  over  them ; 
this  will  preserve  them  from  sudden  altcrnalions  of  frost  and 
1^ 


274  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  milliox. 

thaw.  They  keep  as  well  as  stored  turnips  can  do.  The  bare 
grass  is  of  no  value  in' winter,  and  mny  rather  pei'haps  receive 
some  benefit  from  the  shelter  of  the  turnip.  An  immense 
quantity  may  thus  be  stored  on  a  small  extent  of  grass  ground. 
It  is  chiefly  useful  for  small  farmers,  in  soils  unht  for  the  tur- 
nip, but  who  are  forced  to  raise  it  for  milk-cows,  or  to  support, 
in  the  winter,  the  sheep  they  feed  in  the  summer  on  the  com- 
mons, and  which  they  keep,  perhaps,  principally  in  the  night, 
on  ttie  fields  they  have  no  other  means  of  manuring.  But  it 
may  be  useful,  even  on  proper  turnip  soils,  to  Kave  the  latter 
part  of  the  crop  trom  the  sudden  frosts  and  sunshine  in  the 
spring,  or  in  an  open  winter,  which  rot  so  great  a-portion  of  it ; 
perhaps  a  fourth  or  third  pai't  of  what  is  then  on  the  ground. 


1031.  T?te  good  effects  of  Llder  in  'preserving  Plants  from 
Insects  and  Flics, — 1.  For  preventing  cabbage  and  cauliflow^er 
plants  from  being  devoured  and  damaged  by  caterpillars.  2. 
For  preventing  blights,  and  their  etfects  on  fruit-trees.  3.  For 
preserving  corn  from  yeUow  flies  and  other  insects.  4.  For 
secuiing  turnips  from  the  ravages  of  flies.  'Ihe  dwarf  elder  ap- 
pears to  exhale  a  nmch  more  fetid  smell  than  the  coiiimon 
eld^r,  and  therefore  sh^^nld  be  preferred. 


1032.  The  uae  of  Sulphur  in  destroying  Insects  on  Plants^ 
and  its  Benefit  for  Vegetation. — Tie  up  sufue  flower  of  sulphur 
in  a  piece  of  muslin  or  fine  linen,  and  with  this  the  leaves  of 
young  shoots  of  plants  should  be  dusted  ;  or  it  may  be  thrown 
on  them  by  means  of  a  common  swans'-down  puff,  or  even  by  a 
dredging-box. 

Fresih  assurances  have  repeatedly  been  received  of  the  pow- 
erful influence  of  sulphur  against  the  whule  tribe  of  insects  and 
worms  which  infest  and  prey  on  vegetables.  Sulphur  has  also 
been  found  to  promote  the  health  of  plants,  on  which  it  was 
sprinkled  ;  aiid  that  peach-trees,  in  particular,  were  remaikably 
improved  by  it,  and  seemed  to  absorb  it.  Jt  has  likewise 'been 
observed,  that  the  verdure,  and  other  healthful  appearances, 
were  perceptibly  increased  ;  fur  the  quantity  of  new  shoots  and 
leaves  formed  sub^^cquentiy  to  the  operation,  and  having  no 
sulphur  on  their  suitaces,  served  as  a  kind  of  comparative 
index,  and  pointed  out  distinctly  the  accumulation  of  health. 

1033.  Method  of  stopping  the  Ravages  of  the  Caterpillars  f ran 
Shrubs,    Plaiits,    and    Vegetables. — Take    a    chaflng-dish,   with 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE,    ETC.  275 

lighted  charcoal,  and  place  it  under  the  branches  of  the  tree, 
or  bush,  whereon  are  the  caterpillars;  then  throw  a  little  brim- 
stone on  the  coals.  The  vapor  of  the  sulphur,  which  is  mortal 
to  these  insects,  and  the  suffocating  fixed  air  arising  from  the 
charcoal,  will  not  only  destroy  all  that  are  on  the  tree,  but  will 
effectually  prevent  the  shrubs  from  being,  that  season,  infested 
with  them.  A  pound  of  sulphur  will  clear  as  many  trees  as 
grow  on  several  acres. 

Another  method  of  driving  these  insects  off  fruit-trees,  is  to 
boil  together  a  quantity  of  rue,  woiinwood,  and  common  to- 
bacco (of  each  equal  parts),  in  common  water.  The  liquor 
should  be  very  strung.  Sprinkle  this  on  the  leaves  and  young 
branches  every  morning  and  evening  during  the  time  the  fruit 
is  ripening. 

In  the  Economical  Journal  of  Erance,  the  following  method 
of  guarding  cabbages  from  the  depredations  of  caterpillars  is 
stated  to*  be  infaiiible,  and  may,  perhaps,  be  equally  service- 
able against  those  which  infest  other  vegetables.  Sow  with 
hemp  all  the  borders  of  the  ground  wherein  the  cabbage  is 
planted;  and,  alth(^ugh  the  neighborhood  be  infested  with  cater- 
pillars, the  space  inclosed  by  the  hemp  will  be  perfectly  free, 
and  not  one  of  these  vermin  will  approach  it. 

1034.  2^0  prevent  the  Increase  of  Pismires  in  Grass  Lands 
newly  laid  doivn. — Make  a  strong  decoction  of  walnut-tree 
leaves,  and  after  .opening  several  of  the  pismires'  sandy  habita- 
tions, pour  upon  theni  a  quantity  of  the  liquor,  just  sufficient  to 
fill  the  hollow  of  each  heap:  after  the  middle  of  it  has  been 
scooped,  thi'ov/  in  the  contents  from  the  sides,  and  press  down 
the  whole  mass  with  the  foot,  till  it  becomes  level  with  the 
rust  of  the  field.  This,  if  not  found  efie.ctual  at  first,  must  be 
repeated  a  second  or  a  third  time,  when  they  infallibly  will  be 
destroyed. 


lOo.").  To  prevent  the  Fly  in  Turnips. — From  experiments 
lately  made,  it  has  been  ascertained  that  lime  sown  by  hand, 
i)\  distributed  by  a  machine,  is  an  infaiiible  protection  to  tur- 
inps  against  the  ravages  of  this  destructive  insect.  It  should  be 
applied  as  soon  as  the  turnips  come  up,  and  in  the  same  daily 
rotation  in  which  they  were  sown.  Thelin^ie  should  be  slacked 
,in»ediatciy  bt^fure  it  is  used,  if  the  air  be  not  sufiieiently  moist 
to  render  that  opei'alion  unnecessary, 


276  MRS.    EALe'.^    REOEIPTg    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1036.  To  prevent  Mice  from  destroying  early  sown  Peas.'-^^ 
The  tops  of  furze,  or  whins,  chopped  and  thrown  into  the  drills, 
and  thus  covered  up,  (by  goading  them  in  their  attempt  to 
scratch,)  is  an  effectual  preventive.  Sea-sand,  stewed  pretty 
thick  upon  the  surface,  has  the  same  effect.  It  gets  into  their 
earSj  and  is  troublesome. 


1037.  Another. — In  the  gardens  in  Devonshire,  a  simple 
trap  is  used  to  destroy  mice.  A  com.mon  brick,  or  flat  stone, 
is  set  on  one  end,  inclined  at  an  angle  of  about  forty-five  de- 
grees. Two  strings,  tied  to  a  cracked  stick,  stuck  in  the  ground, 
with  loops  at  the  ends  of  the  strings,  are  brought  round  to  the 
middle  of  the  under  part  of  the  brick,  and  one  loop  being  put 
into  the  other,  a  pea  or  bean,  or  any  other  bait,  makes  the 
string  fast,  so  as  to  support  the  brick.  Vv  hen  the  animal  re- 
moves the  bait,  the  loops  separate,  and  the  brick,  by  falling, 
smothers  the  animal. 


1038.  To  Destroy  Beetles. — Take  some  small  lumps  of  un- 
slaked lime,  and  put  into  the  chinks  or  holes  from  which  they 
issue,  it  will  effectually  destroy  them ;  or  it  may  be  scattered 
on  the  ground,  if  they  are  m'ore  numerous  than  in  their  holes. 

1039.  Another  Method. — The  simplest  and  most  effectual 
Avay  of  destroying  beetles  is  by  means  of  red  wafers.  As  it 
has  become  usual  to  substitute  vermilion  for  red  lead  in  the 
composition  of  wafers,  it  will  be  necessary  to  ask  particularly 
for  such  as  have  been  made  with  red  lead.  Strew^  these  in  the 
neighborhood  of  the  crevices  from  which  these  insects  issue, 
and  their  future  incursions  will  be  speedily  prevented.'  Cock- 
roaches may  be  destroyed  by  the  same  means.  - 


1040.  For  Destroying  Bugs  and  Worms  m  Wood.'—Kn  emi- 
nent physician  has  discovered  that  by  rubbing  wood  with  a 
solution  of  vitriol,  insects  and  bugs  are  prevented  from  harbor- 
ing therein.  When  the  strength  of  this  remedy  is  required  to 
be  increased,  there  need  only  be  boiled  some  coloquintida 
apples  in  water,  in  which,  afterwards,  vitriol  is  dissolved,  and 
the  bedstead,  with  the  wood  about  them,  and  the  w^ainscoting, 
being  anointed  with  the  liquor,  will,  be  ever  after  clear  of 
worms  or  bugs.  The  wall  may  be  likewise  rubbed  with  the 
composition,  and  tome  of  it  uiay  be  dropj  ed   into-  the  holes 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE^    ETC.  277 

where  these  insects  are  suspected  to  be  harbored.  As  to  the 
walls,  they  require  only  to  be  washed  over  with  the  vitriol 
water. 


1041.  To  Destroy  Insects  on  Wall  Fruit  Trees. — Take  an  old 
tin  watering-pan,  or  any  similar  vessel,  and  make  a  charcoal 
fire  in  it;  add  a  tube  or  pipe,  made  of  either  tin,  leather,  or 
stiff  paper,  to  the  spout,  which  may  be  of  any  sufficient  length  ; 
then  strew  some  brimstone,  tobacco-dust,  fine  shreds  of  leather, 
(fee,  upon  the  fire,  in  the  pan,  and  cover  the  top;  having  a  pair 
of  bellows  ready,  hold  the  wind-flap  over  the  tube  or  pipe  to 
receive  the  smoke,  which  it  will  do  very  effectually  when  you 
use  the  bellows.  By  this  means  the  suffocating  vapor  may  be 
directed  through  the  bellows  to  any  part  of  the  tree  with  the 
greatest  ease  and  facility,  and  the  tree  soon  cleared  of  all 
vermin. 


1042.  To  Destroy  the  Insect  which  attacks  the  Ai^ple  Tree, 
commonly  called  the  White  Blighty  or  American  Blight, — To  a 
strong  decoction  of  the  digitalis  or  foxglove,  add  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  fresh  cow-dung,  to  give  it  such  a  consistence  as  may 
enaijle  }0u  to  apply  it  with  a  painters'  brush  to  those  parts  of 
the  bark  of  the  tree,  which  afford  a  harbor  for  this  destructive 
insect.  The  insect  is  generally  destroyed  by  the  first  applica- 
tion, though  in  some  instances  it  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  it. 
It  has  been  remarked  that  the  insect  never  returns  in  future 
years  to  those  parts  of  the  tree  which  have  been  thus  treated. 

1043.  For  Destroying  Caterpillars  on  Gooseberry  Bushes. — 
Take  oae  Scots  pint  (two  English  quarts)  of  tobacco  liquor 
(which  .nay  be  made,  where  it  cannot  be  purchased,  by  infus- 
ing any  kind  of  tobacco  in  water  till  all  the  strength  be  ex- 
tracted) which  the  manufacturers  of  tobacco  generally  sell  for 
destroying  bugs,  and  mix  them  with  about  one  ounce  of  alum  ; 
and  when  the  alum  is  sufficiently  dissolved,  put  this  mixture 
into  a  plate,  or  other  vessel,  wide  and  long  enough  to  admit  of 
d  brush,  like  a  weaver's  brush,  being  di[)ped  into  it ;  and  as 
earl}'  in  the  season  as  you  can  perceive  the  leaves  of  the  bushes 
to  be  in  the  least  eaten,  or  the  eggs  upon  the  leaves  (which 
generally  happens  about  the  end  of  May),  and  which  will  be 
found  in  great  numbers  on  the  veins  of  the  leaves  on  their 
under  sido ;  you  are   then   to   take  the  preparation,  or  liquor, 


2t8  MR?!,  bale's  RECEirrs  for  the  million. 

and  after  dipping  the  brush  into  it,  and  holding  the  brush  to- 
wards the  under  side  of  the  bush,  which  is  to  be  raised  and  sup- 
ported by  the  hands  of  another  person  ;  and  by  drawing  your 
hand  gently  over  the  hairs  of  the  brush,  the  above  liquid  is 
sprinkled,  and  falls  in  small  drops  on  the  leaves ;  the  conse- 
quence of  which  is,  if  the  eggs  are  there,  they  never  come  for- 
ward ;  and  if  they  have  already  generated  worms,  in  a  minute 
or  two  after  the  liquor  touches  them,  they  either  die  or  sicken, 
so  as  to  fall  off  the  bush;  at  least  they  do  so  upon  giving  it  a 
little  shake,  l^,  upon  their  thus  falling  off,  they  shall  not  ap- 
pear completely  dead,  the  bush  should  be  held  up,  and  either 
a  little  boiling  w\ater  from  a  watering-pot  thrown  over  them,  or 
a  bruise  given  them  by  a  spade  or  shovel ;  or  the  earth,  where 
they  lie,  turned  over  with  a  hoe.  This  preparation  does  not  in 
the  least  injure  the  bushes. 

1044.  To  Preserve  Flowers^  Leaves^  and  Fruit,  from  Cater- 
^nllars. — These  depredators  are  destroyed  by  oils,  which  close 
the  lateral  pores  by  w-hich  they  breathe.  For  this  purpose  it  is 
advised,  that  on  the  approach  of  spring,  a  cloth,  dipped  in  train 
oil,  be  laid  on  such  parts  of  the  tree  in  which  there  is  the  least 
appearance  of  them. 

1045.  Method  to  deistroy  or  drive  away  Earth  Worms ^  and 
other  Insects^  hurtful  to  Fields  and  Gardens. — Three  parts  of 
quick-lime,  newly  made,  and  two  parts  of  soap-boilers'  l^y  or 
potash  dissolved  in  w^ater,  will  produce  a  somewhat  milky  liquor 
sufficiently  caustic,  and  highly  hostile  and  poisonous  to  earth- 
worms and  other  small  animals;  for  as  soon  as  it  touches  any 
part  of  their  bodies,  it  occasions  in  them  violent  symptoms  of 
great  uneasiness.  If  this  liquor  be  poured  into  those  holes,  in 
which  the  earth-worms  reside  under  ground,  they  immediately 
throw  themselves  out  as  if  driven  by  some  force,  and,  after 
various  contortions,  languish  and  die.  If  the  leaves  of  plants  or 
fruit-trees,  frequented  by  the  voracious  caterpillai-s,  which  are 
so  destructive  to  them,  be  sprinkled  over  with  this  liquor^ 
these  insects  suddenly  contract  their  bodies  and  drop  to  the 
ground.     For,  though  nature  has  defended  them  tolerably  well 

'  by  their  hairy  skins,  from  any  thing  that  might  injure  their  deli- 
cate bodies;  yet,  as  soon  as  they  touch  with  their  feet  or  mouths 
the  leaves  which  have  been  moistened  by  this  liquor,  they  be- 
come, as  it  were,  stupefied,  instantly  contract  themselves,  aad 
fall  down. 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRTCUI/rURE,    ETC.  279 

1046.  To  destroy  Earwigs  and  Wood  Lice, — A  very  simple 
way  of  ensnaring  them,  and  by  whicli  they  may  be  taken  alive 
in  great  quantities,  is  tu  place  tbur  iiich>cats  of  reeds,  bean- 
haulm,  or  strong  wheat-straw  among  the  bi'iuiches,  and  also  lay 
a  number  on  the  ground,  at  the  bottom  of  the  wall.  In  these 
the  insects  take  refuge  at  day-break,  as  they  depredate  chiefly  in 
the  night;  and  any  time  through  the  day  they  may  be  blown 
into  a  bottle  wnth  a  little  water  in  it,  and  so  be  drowned.  Or^ 
a  cheaper  way  is  to  burn  the  straw,  and  scatter  fresh  on  the 
ground. 


1047.  To  destroy  Fleas  on  Dogs. — Rub  the  animal,  when 
out  of  the  house,  with  the  common  Scotch  snuff,  except  thenoso 
and  eyes.  Rub  the  powder  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair. 
'  Clear  lime-water  destroys  the  whitish  flea-worm  \^  iihout  injuring 
the  skin  or  hair.  Oil  of  turpentine  will  likewise  do  so  ;  but  if 
there  be  any  manginess,  or  the  skin  be  broken,  it  will  give  the 
anin)al  much  pain. 


1048.  To  clear  Gardens  of  Vermin^  by  Ducks, — Ducks  are 
excellent  vermin-pickers,  whether  of  cateipidars  (such  as  are 
\vithin  their  reach),  slugs,  snails,  and  others,  and  ought  to  be 
turned  into  the  garden  one  or  two  days  every  week  throughout 
the  season.  Never  keep  them  longer  in  than  two  or  three 
hours  at  a  time,  else  they  become  indolent.  While  here,  they 
should  have  a  little  water  set  down  to  them,  if  there  be  no  pond 
or  stream  in  the  garden. 

Never  turn  them  into  the  garden  in  the  time  of  heavy  rains, 
or  in  continued  wet  weather,  as  in  that  case,  and  particularly 
if  the  soil  be  stifl",  they  patter  and  harden  the  surface,  to  the 
great  injury  of  small  crops  and  rising  seeds. 


1049.  The  use  of  Garlic  against  Moles^  Gruhs^  and  Snails. — 
Moles  are  such  enemies  to  the  smell  of  garlic,  that,  in  order  to 
get  jid  of  these  troublesonie  and  destructive  guests,  it  is  sufli- 
cient  to  introduce  a  few  heads  of  garlic  into  their  subterraneous 
walks.  It  is  likewise  employed  with  success  against  grubs  and 
snails. 

1050.  2  0  prevent  the  destruction  of  Field  Turnips  by  Sluffs. — 
A  few  years  since,  a  considerable  farmer,  near  Bath,  observing 
Ihe  turnips  in  one  of  his  fields  strongly  attacked  by  something, 


280  >iRs.  halk's  eeceipts  for  tke  million. 

discovered,  by  accident,  that  the  enemy  was  really  a  slug ;  and 
immediately  prevented  farther  damage  by  well  rolling  the  whole 
field,  by  night,  which  killed  all  the  slugs. 

N.  B.  This  was  the  grand  secret  which  was  advertised  for 
two  thousand  subscribers,  at  one  guinea  each,  by  W.  Vagg, 
for  destroying  the  fly  in  turnips — which  it  will  not  do  ! 


1051.  Method  of  destroying  Insects  on  Fruit  Trees, — Make 
a  strong  decoction  of  tobacco,  and  the  tender  shoots  of  elder, 
by  pouring  boiling  water  on  ihem  ;  then  sprinkle  your  trees 
with  the  same  (cold)  twice  a  week,  for  two  or  three  weeks, 
with  a  small  hearth-brush,  w^hich  will  effectually  destroy  the 
insects,  and  the  leaves  will  retain  their  verdure  until  the  fall 
of  the  year. 

If  used  early,  as  soon  as  the  bud  unfolds  itself,  it  will  proba- 
bly prevent  the  fly.  The  effect  of  tobacco  has  been  long  known, 
and  elder-water  frequently  spi-inkled  on  honeysuckles  and  roses, 
has  been  found  to  prevent  insects  from  hedging  on  them. 

The  quantity  to  be  made  use  of,  is  one  ounce  of  tobacco  to 
one  gallon  of  water,  with  about  two  handfuls  of  elder.  You 
may,  however,  make  it  as  strong  as  you  please,  it  being  per- 
fectly innocent  to  the  plants. 


1052.  7h  destroy  Insects  2^r€Jtcdicial  to  Jpple- Trees. — To  one 
hundi-ed  gallons  of  human  urine,  and  one  bushel  of  lime,  add 
cow-dung  to  bring  it  to  the  consistence  of  paint.  With  this 
composition  anoint  the  trees.  The  month  of  March  is  the  pro- 
per season  for  applying  it.  if  the  white  efliorescence-like  sub- 
stance in  which  the  insects  are  lodged,  has  made  its  appearance, 
it  should  previously  be  brushed  off. 

1053.  To  destroy  wasps  on  Fruit- Trees. — Wasps,  about  the 
month  of  July,  will  begin  to  swarm  about  the  early  fruits;  and 
for  their  destruction,  phials  should  be  hung  about  the  branches, 
half-filled  with  honey  and  water,  or  with  sugar  and  small-beer. 
These  should  be  emptied  and  replaced  once  in  two  or  three 
days,  otherwise  they  do  not  take  so  well — these  little  animals 
being  extremely  sagacious,  and  disliking  the  appearance  of  their 
own  species,  when  dead. 

1054.  Another. — Winter  is  the  proper  season  to  apply  the 
following  solution.     The  juices  are  then  determined  to  the  root. 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE,    ETC. 


281 


Soft  soap,  two  pounds ;  leaf  or  roll  tobacco,  one  pound  ; 
nux-vomica,  two  ounces;  and  turpentine,  half  an  English  gill: 
boil  them  in  eight  English  gallons  of  soft  or  river  water,  to  six ; 
and  use  it  milk-warm. 

Unnail  or  untie  all  the  branches  from  the  wall  or  trellis ; 
brush  every  part  of  the  tree  clean  with  a  soft  brush,  such  as  is 
used  for  painting ;  then,  with  a  sponge,  carefully  anoint  every 
branch,  root,  and  bud  ;  and  be  sure  rub  it  well  into  every  joint, 
hole,  and  angle,  as  it  is  there  the-  eggs  or  larvae  of  the  insects 
are  chiefly  lodged.  The  rails,  spars,  &c.,  of  the  espalier  or 
trellis,  should  also  be  anointed  as  above. 

This  operation  should  be  repeated  every  winter,  some  time 
between  the  fall  of  the  leaf  and  the  first  of  [February,  ns  may 
be  most  convenient.  The  solution  is  effectually  destructive  to 
all  kinds  of  insects,  their  eggs  or  larvae. 

1055.  To  hill  Reptiles, — Twelve  ounces  of  quick-lime  in 
powder,  two  ounces  of  Scotch  snuff,  two  ounces  of  basket  salt, 
two  ounces  of  sulphur  vivum,  dissolved  in  ten  gallons  of  water, 
and  thrown  on  the  insects,  either  in  the  liquid  or  powder,  w^ill 
destroy  them. 

1056.  To  prevent  Sings  from  getting  into  Fruit-Trees. — If  tho 
trees  are  standards,  tie  a  coarse  horse-hair  rope  about  them, 
two  or  three  feet  from  the  ground.  If  they  are  against  the  wall, 
nail  a  narrow  slip  of  coarse  horse-hair  cloth  against  the  wall, 
about  half  a  foot  from  the  ground,  and  they  will  never  get  over 
it;  for  if  they  attempt  it,  it  will  kill  them,  as  their  bellies  are 
soft,  and  the  horse-hair  will  wound  them. 


1057.  To  destroy  Snails, — Snails  are  great  enemies  to  wall- 
fruit;  and  any  dewy  morning  you  may  easily  find  where  they 
most  delight  to  breed  ;  but  the  best  way  is  to  find  out  their 
haunts  in  a  hard  winter,  and  then  destroy  them  :  they  lie  much 
in  holes  of  walls,  under  thorns,  behind  old  trees  or  old  and  close 
hedges.  If  you  pluck  not  the  fruit  they  have  begun  to  devour, 
but  let  it  alone,  they  will. finish  their  repast  on  this,  before  they 
begin  another. 


1058.  To  destroy  the  Red  Spider^  so  troublesome  in  dry  sea- 
sons,— The  red  spicier  makes  its  appearance  in  hot,  dry  weather, 
and  is  always  found  on  the  under  sides  of  the  leaves,  generally 


282  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

on  ro'dghish  leaves,  but  not  always  so.  It  preys  on  the  apple 
cherry,  fig,  peach,  pear,  and  plum — seldom  on  the  apricot.  It 
is  among  trie  smallest  of  the  acari,  and  is  sometimes  not  dis- 
tinguishable without  a  microscope,  if  the  bark  of  the  leaf  be 
viewed  through  one,  it  appears  full  of  its  webs;  and  if  many 
abound  on  it,  the  leaf  appears  full  of  punctures,  becomes  dis- 
colored, and  brown  on  the  upper  surface,  fades,  and  falls  off. 

This  insect  is  more  troublesonjc  in  dry  seasons  than  in  moist 
ones,  and  is  wonderfully  encouraged  by  heat — insomuch,  that 
hot-houses  of  every  description  are  sadly  infested  with  it.  Wa- 
ter, and  water  only,  is  its  bane;  and  the  syringe,  or  the  force- 
pump,  the  engine  of  its  destruction.  It  is  not  a  mere  sprinkling 
that  will  do ;  it  requires  a  forcible  dashing  to  and  fro,  and  that 
often  repeated,  to  be  eiiectual. 

1059.  To  destroy  Vermin  in  Granaries  and  other  Outbuild- 
htgs, — Cover  completely  the  walls  and  rafters,  above  and  below, 
of  the  granaries,  <ic.,  which  are  infested  with  weevils  and  other 
vermin,  with  quick-lime  slaked  in  water,  in  which  trefoil,  worm- 
wood, and  hyssop  have  been  boiled.  This  compojiition  ought 
i(s  be  applied  as  hot  as  possible. 

1060.  To  deUroy  Worms  in  Gardens. — Water  your  beds 
with  a  strong  decuction  of  walnut-tree  leaves  where  there  are 
■worm  casts  ;  the  worms  will  iuimediately  rise  up  out  of  the 
earth,  and  you  may  easily  ^ake  and  cut  them  to  pieces,  and  fat- 
ten your  poultry  therewith,  or  feed  fish  in  ponds  with  them. 

By  laying  ashes  or  lime  about  any  plant,  neither  snails  nor 
worms  will  come  near  it.  As  the  moisture  weakens  it,  you 
must,  more  or  less,  continue  to  renew  the  liuie  or  ashes. 


1061.  To  destroy  Worms  in  Gravel  Walks,  d'c, — Pour  into 
the  holes  a  ley,  made  of  wood  ashes  and  lime;  this  will  also 
destroy  insects,  if  trees  are  sprinkled  with  it.  Salt  and  water 
will  do  as  well. 


1062.  Usefulness  of  the  Wren  in  destroying  Insects, — As  a 
devourer  of  pernicious  insects,  one  of  the  most  useful  birds  is 
the  house  wren.  Ihis  little  bird  seems  to  be  particularly  fond 
of  the  society  of  man,  and  it  must  be  confessed  that  it  is  often 
protected  by  his  interested  care.  It  has  hnig  been  a  custom,  in 
many  parts  of  the  country,  to  fix  a  small  box  at  the  end  of  a 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGllICULTURE,    ET<  .  283 

long  pole,  ill  gardens,  about  'houses,  (^c,  as  a  place  for  it  to 
build  in.  In  these  boxes  they  build  and  hatch  their  young. 
When  the  young  are  hatched,  the  parent  bird  feeds  them  with 
a  variety  of  diflerent  insects,  particularly  such  as  are  injurious 
in  gardens.  An  intelligent  gentleman  was  at  the  trouble  to 
observe  the  number  of  times  a  pair  of  these  birds  came  from 
their  box,  and  returned  with  insects  for  their  young.  He  found 
that  they  did  this  from  40  to  60  times  in  an  hour,  and  in  one 
particular  hour,  the  birds  carried  food  to  their  young  71  times. 
In  this  business  they  were  engaged  the  greater  part  of  the  day  ; 
sQ>y  12  hours.  Taking  the  medium  therefore  of  50  times  in  an 
hour,  it  appeared  that  a  single  pair  of  these  birds  took  from  the 
cabbage,  salad,  beans,  peas,  and  other  vegetables  in  the  gar- 
den,  at  least  600  insects  in  the  course  of  one  day.  This  calcu- 
lation proceeds  upon  the  supposition  that  the  two  birds  took 
only  a  single  insect  each  tim.e.  But  it  is  highly  probable  they 
often  took  several  at  a  time. 


1063.  To  destroy  Rats  and  other  Vermin, — Sponge,  if  cut  in 
small  pieces,  fried  or  dipped  in  honey,  and  given  tcf  vermin, 
distends  their  intestines,  and  effectually  destroys  them.  The 
addition  of  a  little  oil  of  Khodium  will  tempt  them  to  eat. 

A  better  method  would  be  to  feed  them  regularly  two  or 
three  weeks  in  any  apartment  which  they  infest.  The  hole,  by 
which  they  enter,  being  first  fitted  with  a  sliding  door,  to 
which  a  long  string  may  be  added  ;  any  apartment  might  thus 
be  turned  into  a  gigantic  rat-trap. 


1064.  Another  Method  of  Lestroying  Bat9:<=^hay  bird-lime 
in  their  haunts,  for  though  they  are  nasty  enough  in  other  re- 
spects, yet  being  very  curious  of  their  fir,  if  it  is  but  daubed 
with  this  stufi',  it  is  so  troublesome  to  them  that  they  will  even 
scjatch  their  skins  from  off  their  own  backs  to  get  it  off,  and 
will  never  abide  in  a  place  where  they  have  suffered  in  this 
manner. 


1065.  To  destroy  Eats  or  Mice, — Mix  flour  of  malt  w^ith 
some  butter;  add  thereto  a  drop  or  two  of  oil  of  anise-seeds  ; 
niake  it  up  into  balls,  and  bait  your  traps  therewith.  Jf  you 
have  thousands,  by  this  means  you  may  take  them  all. 

1066.  A  Mouse  Irajj^  hy  which  forty  or  fifty  Mice  may  be 
cauyht  in  a  JS'iyht. — Take  a  plain  fuur-scj[uare  trencher,  and  put 


234  >if-^.  Kale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

into  the  two  contrary  ends  of  it  ,a  large  pin,  or  piece  of  thick 
knitting-needle;  then  take  two  sticks  about  a  yard  long,  and 
lay  them  on  your  dresser,  with  a  notch  cut  at  each  end  of  your 
sticks,  placing  the  two  pins,  stuck  on  the  corner  of  the  trencher, 
on  the  notches  of  the  two  sticks,  so  that  one  corner  of  your 
trencher  may  lie  about  an  inch  upon  your  dresser  or  place  that 
the  mice  may  come  to  ;  then  let  the  corner  that  lies  opposite 
to  this  be  baited  with  some  butter  and  oatmeal,  plastered  fast 
on,  and  when  the  mice  run  off  the  dresser  to  the  butter,  it  will 
tip  them  into  a  vessel  full  of  water,  which  you  must  place  under 
the  trencher,  in  which  they  will  be  drowned. 

That  your  trencher  may  not  tip  over,  with  a  little  sealing, 
■wax  and  a  thread  seal  the  string  to  the  dresser  and  trencher, 
and  it  will  remain  in  good  order  for  weeks  or  months. 

106T.  ^ew,  simple,  and  effectual  Method  of  destroying  JRats^ 
— A  few  years  ago,  the  corn-mill  at  Glossop  was  very  much 
infested  with  rats.  A  quantity  of  barley,  which  lay  on  the 
chamber  floor  w\^s  hourly  visited  by  some  of  them.  The  miller 
one  day  going  to  drive  them  away  as  usual,  happened  to  catch 
one  of  them  under  his  hat,  which  he  killed  ;  he  then  singed  all 
the  hair  off  its  body,  ike,  until  its  skin,  tail,  and  legs,  became 
stiff  by  the  operation,  in  this  condition  he  set  it  upon  its  feet 
by  the  side  of  a  heap  of  barley,  where  it  stood,  with  pricked- 
up  ears  and  tail,  for  some  time  ;  after  this,  no  rat  dared  to 
come  near  it ;  and  in  a  short  space  of  time  the  mill  was  cleared 
of  those  depredators,  and  has  continued  so  ever  since. 


10G8.  To  prevent  tlie  Burrowing  of  Rats  in  Houses. — Rats 
may  be  effectually  prevented  from  burrowing  under  the  foun- 
dation of  houses,  by  making  an  offset  of  stone  or  brick,  about 
two  feet  in  breadth,  and  eighteen  inches  below  the  surface ;  and 
by  carrying  up  a  perpendicular  wall  from  the  edge  of  this  off. 
set,  to  within  a  few  inches  of  the  ground.  The  adoption  of  the 
same  plan  inside  will  prevent  the  burrowing  of  these  animals  in 
cellars  ;  for  rats  always  burrow  close  to  a  wall  ;  and  finding 
their  perpendicular  course  impeded,  they  take  a  horizontal  di- 
rection, as  far  as  the  offset  continues,  when  they  are  again 
stopped  by  the  outside  wall.  Thus  baffled,  they  ascend,  and 
go  off. 

Those  persons  who  have  suffered  in  their  granaries,  ice- 
houses, and  in  the  cellars  of  their  dwelling-houses,  by  the  depre- 


HINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE.    ETC.  285 

dations  of  rats,  will  probably  deem  this  one  of  the  most  valu- 
able articles  of  the  present  work. 

1069.  To  keep  Ponds  and  Artijicial  Pieces  of  Water  free  from 
Weeds. — At  the  Marquis  of  Exeter's  seat,  near  Burghley,  there 
is  an  artificial  piece  of  water,  about  a  mile  in  length,  which 
used  to  be  so  over-run  with  weeds,  that  three  men  were  em- 
ployed constantly,  for  six  months  in  every  year,  to  keep  them 
under  ;  in  which  they  never  perfectly  succeeded.  About  seven 
years  ago,  two  pair  of  swans  were  put  on  the  water :  they  com- 
pletely cleared  away  all  the  weeds  the  first  year,  and  none  have 
appeared  since,  as  the  swans  constantly  eat  them  before  they 
rise  to  the  surface. 


1070.  Usefulness  of  Mowing  Weeds. — In  the  month  of  June 
weeds  are  in  their  most  succulent  state;  and  in  this  state,  espe- 
cially after  they  have  lain  a  few  hours  to  wither,  hungry  cattle 
will  eat  greedily  almost  every  species.  There  is  scarcely  a 
hedge,  border,  or  nook,  but  at  this  season  is  valuable,  and  it 
must  certainly  be  good  management  to  embrace  the  transient 
opportunity  ;  for  in  a  few  weeks  they  will  become  nuisances. 


lOTl.  On  the  great  Increase  of  Milk  from  feeding  Milch  Cows 
v)ith  Sainfoin. — The  quantity  of  milk  produced  by  cows  fed  by 
sainfoin  is  nearly  double  to  that  of  any  other  food.  The  milk 
is  also  much  richer,  and  will  yield  a  larger  quantity  of  cream, 
I'he  butter  will  also  be  better  colored  and  flavored  than  any 
other. 


1072.  Parsnips  productive  of  Milk  in  Cotes. — Parsnips  cause 
cows  to  produce  abundance  of  milk,  and  they  eat  them  as  free 
as  they  do  oil-cake.  Land,  11.  an  acre  in  Guernsey,  is  sown 
with  parsnips  to  feed  cattle,  and  the  milk  is  like  cream. — Sheep, 
when  lambing,  fed  with  them,  produc^i  nmch  milk.  They  are 
imprv)per  food  for  horses,  subjecting  them  to  blindiiess. 

1073.  Most  proper  Pood  for  Milth  Cows. — Milch  cows  are  in- 
finitely more  profitable  kept  in  the  house  than  out  of  dooi*s, 
but  they  must  be  trained  to  it,  otherwise  they  do  not  thrive. 

The  best  food  U»r  them  are  clover,  lucern,  potatoes,  yams^ 
turnips,  carrots,  cabbages,  peas,  and  beans. 

Such  cows  as  those   in  the  neighborho'.»d  of  London,  kept  iu 


286  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

the  house,  and  properly  fed,  ought  to  yield  nnie  gallons  per  day, 
for  the  first  four  months  after  calving. 

1074.  Additional  Quantiti/  of  Milk  to  be  gained  by  keeping 
Milch  Coivs  in  the  House. — In  the  management  of  cows  a  warm 
stable  is  highly  necessary ;  and  currying  them  like  horses  not 
only  affords  them  pleasure,  but  makes  them  give  their  milk 
more  freely.  They  ought  always  to  be  kept  clean,  laid  dry, 
and  have  plenty  of  good  sweet  water  to  drink.  Cows  treated 
in  this  manner  have  given  two  gallons  of  milk  at  a  time,  when 
within  ten  days  of  calving. 

1075.  Utility  of  Carrots  as  Food  for  Horses  and  other  stall 
Beasts. — Carrots  are  excellent  food  for  horses,  either  given 
alone,  or  along  with  hay,  likewise  for  fattening  stall  beasts. 
They  make  them  eat  straw,  and  very  indifferent  hay,  greedily. 
If  the  same  be  given  to  cows,  the  milk  will  have  a  much  less 
offensive  taste  and  smell  than  when  they  are  fed  on  turnips. 

Remark. — It  must  be  noted,  however,  that  Ciirrots,  though 
very  excellent,  are  a  very  expensive  food.  They  would  not 
enable  a  farmer  to  pay  his  rent. 


1076.  Excellent  Method  of  rearing  Calves^  and  of  preserving 
the  Cream^  and  a  great  Part  of  the  Milk  during  that  Time. — 
Put  some  water  on  the  fire,  nearly  the  quantity  that  the  calf 
can  drink.  When  it  boils,  throw  into  it  one  or  two  handfuls 
of  oatmeal,  and  suffer  the  whole  to  boil  for  a  minute.  Then 
leave  it  to  cool  until  new-milk-warm.  Then  mix  with  it  one 
or  two  quarts  of  milk,  that  has  stood  twelve  hours,  and  has 
been  skimmed  :  stir  the  whole,  and  give  it  the  calf  to  drink. 
At  fii  St  it  is  necessary  to  make  the  calf  drink  by  presenting  the 
fingers  to  it,  but  it  soon  learns  to  do  without  this  help,  and  \s\\\ 
grow  incomparai)ly  faster  than  by  the  old  method.  This  new 
method  is  not  only  a  theoretical  truth,  but  its  success  is  con- 
firmed l>y  experience. 

The  economical  advantages  resulting  from  it  are  as  follows. 
According  to  the  old  method,  a  calf  intended  for  slaughter  is 
made  to  suck  for  three  weeks,  and  those  intended  for  agricul- 
ture, from  six  to  ei^ht  weeks.  Supposing  the  cow  gives  only  a 
moderate  quantity  of  milk,  the  value  of  it  will  amount,  in 
three  weeks,  to  nearly  the  value  of  the  calf.  U^  on  the  con 
trary,  we  rear  a  calf  accordiiig  to   this  method,   we  consume 


HIWT8    ABOUT    AGRICULTURE,    ETC.  9B7 

during  the  three  weeks  only  three  quarts  of  oatmeal,  at  most, 
and  the  skiinraed  milk. 

Calves  that  have  been  brought  up  by  this  method  have  been 
always  healthy  and  strong,  and  not  subject  to  disease.  They 
are  not  suffered  to  suck  at  all,  but  to  have  the  pure  milk  of  the 
mother  to  drink  fur  the  first  four  days,  because  it  has  been  ob- 
served, that  the  separation,  after  four  days,  is  more  painful  to 
the  mother  than  when  the  calf  is  taken  from  her  soon  after  its 
birth. 


10T7.  Rules  for  Milking  Cows, — Cows  should  be  milked 
three  times  a  day,  if  fully  fed  throughout  the  summer,  and 
great  caution  should  be  exercised  by  the  persons  employed,  to 
draw  the  milk  from  them  completely,  not  only  to  increase  the 
quantity  of  produce,  but  to  preserve  its  quality.  Any  portion 
which  may  be  left  in  the  udder  seems  gradually  absorbed  in 
the  system,  and  no  more  is  formed  than  enough  to  supply  the 
loss  of  what  is  taken  away,  and  by  the  continuance  of  the  same 
mode,  a  yet  farther  diminution  of  the  secretion  takes  place,  till 
at  length  scarcely  any  is  produced.  This  last  method  of  milk- 
ing is  always  practised,  when  it  is  intended  that  a  cow  should 
be  rendered  drv. 


1078.  Proj^er  Temperature  for  a  Dairy, — The  apartments 
appropriated  for  dairy  purposes  should,  if  possible,  possess  a 
moderate  temperature  throughout  the  year,  and  should  be  kept 
perfectly  clean  and  dry.  The  temperature  of  about  fifty-five 
degrees  is  most  favorable  for  the  separation  of  the  cream  from 
the  milk.  The  utensils  of  the  dairy  are  best  made  of  wood  ; 
lead  and  copper  are  soluble  in  acid,  and  highly  pernicious ;  and 
though  iron  is  not  injurious,  the  taste  of  it  might  render  the 
produce  of  the  dairy  unpalatable. 


1070.  Method  of  making  excellent  Butter  from  the  Milk  of 
Cows  fed  upon  Turnips, — Let  the  bowls,  either  lead  or  wood, 
be  kept  constantly  clean,  and  well  scalded  with  boiling  water, 
befoie  using.  When  the  milk  is  brought  into  the  dairy,  to 
every  eight  quarts  mix  one  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  then  put 
up  the  milk  into  the  bowls  to  stand  for  cream.  By  keeping 
strictly  to  this  method,  you  will  have,  during  the  winter,  con- 
stantly sweet  and  well-tasted  butter  from  the  milk  of  cows  fed 
upon  turnips. 


2?8  STRS.    bale's    receipts    for    THR    lOLLIOH. 

1080.  Improved  Method  of  mahing  Butter, — If  the  dairy  con- 
sists oi  three  or  four  cows,  they  should  be  milked  in  the  sum- 
mer thrice  a  day ;  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and  in  the  evening. 
Each  milking  must  be  kept  by  itself,  in  flat  wooden  vessels,  to 
cool  in  like  manner ;  and  thus  in  succession  for  two  or  three 
days,  according  to  the  temperature  of  the  air,  the  milk  thickens, 
and  thence  is  fit  for  churning,  soonest  in  the  warmest 
weather.  The  quantity  of  butter  will  be  generally  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  pound  (twenty-two  ounces)  for  each  ten  pints,  or 
five  English  gallons  of  milk.  In  winter,  the  cows  are  to  be 
milked  only  twice  a  day,  and  the  milk  is  to  l>e  put  into  the 
churn  warm  from  the  cow,  where  it  must  stand  a  day  or  two 
longer  than  in  summer  before  it  becomes  sufficiently  thick  ; 
although  to  promote  the  coagulation,  it  is  sometimes  brought 
near  the  kitchen  fire,  particularly  on  the  preceding  night  before 
it  is  churned  ;  and,  in  intense  cold,  it  will  be  necessary  to  add 
p.  small  quantity  of  boiling  water.  The  operation  of  churning 
is  pertbrmed  with  the  plunge^hum,  from  two  to  three  hours, 
for  thirty  or  f jrty  pints  of  milk ;  and  at  the  last  stage  of  the 
process,  a  little  cold  water  thrown  in  has  the  effect  of  pro 
moting  the  separation  of  the  butter  from  the  milk.  This  me- 
thod of  making  butter  has  long  been  practiced  in  England  ;  it 
may  be  worth  trial  in  America, 

N.B. — The  dairy-maid  must  not  be  disheartened  if  she  does 
not  succeed  perfectly  in  her  first  attempt. 


lOSl.  To  prevent  Cows  from  contracting  lad  Hahits  tchile 
Milking. — Cows  should  always  be  treated  with  great  gentleness, 
and  soothed  by  mild  usage,  especially  when  young  and  ticklish, 
or  when  the  paps  are  tender,  in  which  case  the  udder  ought  to 
be  fomented  with  warm  water,  before  milking,  and  touched 
with  the  greatest  gentleness,  otherwise  the  cow  will  be  in 
danger  of  contracting  bad  habits,  becoming  stubborn  and  un- 
ruly, and  retaining  her  mOk  ever  after.  A  cow  never  lets 
down  her  milk  pleasantly  to  the  person  she  dreads  or  dislikes. 
The  udder  and  paps  should  always  be  washed  with  clean  water 
before  milking ;  but  care  should  be  taken  that  none  of  that 
water  be  admitted  into  the  milking  paii. 


10??2.  To  marl'  Sheep,  without  injury  to  the  Wool. — To  thirty 
spoijnfuls  of  linseed  oil,  add  two  ounces  of  lithai^e  and  one 


EINTS    ABOUT    AGRICULTURK,    ETC.  289 

ounce  of  lamp-black  :  unite  them  together  by  boiling,  and  mark 
the  sheep  therewith. 


1083.  To  improve  the  Wool  of  Sheep^  hy  Smearing. — Imme- 
diately after  the  sheep  are  shoni,  soak  the  roots  of  the  wool 
that  remain  all  over  w^ith  oil  or  butter  and  brimstone;  and 
three  or  four  days  afterwards,  w^ash  them  with  salt  and  water. 
The  wool  of  next  season  will  not  only  be  much  finer,  but  the 
quantity  will  be  in  greater  abundance.  It  may  be  depended 
upon,  that  the  sheep  will  not  be  troubled  with  the  scab  or 
vermin  that  year.     Salt  water  is  a  safe  and  effectual  remedy 


1'084.  To  preserve  Cattle  from  Disease  in  the  Winter, — When 
cattle  are  kept  out  in  the  winter,  it  is  recommended  as  an  use- 
ful practice  to  rub  some  tar  at  the  root  of  the  horn,  which  pre- 
vents the  wet  from  getting  between  the  root  and  the  skin,  and, 
it  is  said,  contributes  to  preserve  the  health  of  the  animal,  and 
to  keep  it  iv^^  from  various  diseases  to  which  it  may  otherwise 

be  liable. 

*  

1085.  How  to  Promote  the  Health  of  Farm  AnimaU. — All 
domestic  animals  should  be  abundantly  furnished  with  salt.  A 
supply  kept  within  their  reach,  whenever  it  can  be  done,  is  re- 
commended. Horses  and  pigs  should  occasionally  have  ashes 
given  them  in  their  food ;  and  pigs  ought  at  all  times,  when 
confined  in  pens,  to  be  supplied  with  charcoal,  as,  besides  being 
a  medicine,  it  is  a  cheap  and  valuable  food. 


1086.  Parsley  recommended  to  Farmers  to  he  sown  icith  B/jpe- 
seed,  as  a  preservative  against  the  Resp  in  Sheep, — A  correspon- 
dent of  the  "  Chester  Chronicle  *'  recommends  to  all  farmers 
who  sow  rape-seed,  ta  sow  with  it  a  small  portion  of  parsley 
at  the  same  time;  this  he  pronounces  an  infallible  preservative 
against  the  malady  well-known  by  the  name  of  resp^  in  sheep : 
he  also  advises  to  sow  parsley  on  turnip  land  at  the  time  of 
hoeing  turnips.  The  above  correspondent  asserts,  that  he  has 
pursued  this  plan  upwards  of  twenty-five  years,  and  during  that 
time  he  has  never  lost  one  sheep,  either  in  rape  or  turnip  land. 

Remark, — In  some  counties,  parsley  is  sown  with  clover,  on 
the  supposition  that  it  prevents  cattle  from  being  bursten,  or 
hoven. 

19 


290  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1087.  How  to  catgh  Sheep. — Never  seize  them  by  the  wool 
on  the  back;  it  hurts  them  exceedingly,  and,  in  some  eases, 
has  been  known  to  kill  them,  particularly  in  hot  weather,  when 
they  are  large  and  fat.  The  best  way  is  to  avoid  the  wool  alto- 
gether; accustom  yourself  to  take  them  by  the  hind  leg,  or 
what  is  still  better,  by  the  neck,  placing  one  hand  under  the 
jaws,  and  the  other  at  the  back  of  the  ears.  By  lifting  up  the 
head,  in  this  manner,  a  child  may  hold  almost  any  sheep,  with- 
out danger  to  the  animal  or  himself. 


1088.  Mr,  BaJcewelVs  Liquid  for  the  cure  of  the  Foot-ret  in. 
Sheeny, — Dissolve  four  ounces,  each,  of  vitriol  and  common 
alum,  three  ounces  of  verdigris,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  white 
mercury,  and  an  ounce  of  white  copperas,  all  finely  pulverized, 
in  a  quart  of  white- wine  vinegar. 


1089.  Mr.  Culley's  Red  Salve,  to  cure  the  Mot  in  Sheep. — 
Mix  four  ounces  of  the  best  honey,  two  ounces  of  burnt  alum, 
reduced  to  powder,  and  half  a  pound  of  Armenian  bole,  with 
as  much  train  or  fish  oil  as  will  convert  these  ingredients  into 
the  consistence  of  a  salve.  The  honey  must  first  be  gradually 
dissolved,  when  the  Armenian  bole  must  be  stirred  in ;  after- 
wards the  alum  and  train  oil  are  to  be  added. 


1090.  A  profitohle  way  of  fattening  Pigs. — Put  four  pigs  in 
a  sty,  for  they  feed  best  in  company  ;  but  if  there  are  too  many, 
they  are  apt  to  quarrel :  feed  them  moderately  the  first  week ; 
and  thrice  during  the  second  week,  mix  with  their  barley-miCal 
as  much  antimony  as  will  lie  on  a  shilling;  and  the  third  week, 
twice  give  them  the  same  quantity.  I  need  scarcely  observe, 
it  is  in  powder. 

This  purifies  the  blood,  gives  them  an  appetite,  and  makes 
them  thrive  apace. 


1091.  Neio  mode  of  fattening  Pigs. — A  pig  lately  gained,  by 
feeding  on  Indian  corn,  in  the  course  of  six  weeks  acd  three 
days,  the  enormous  weight  of  fifteen  stone.  This  mode  of  feed- 
ing has  long  been  known  to  the  Neapolitans,  whose  pigs  are  so 
fat^  as  hardly  to  be  able  to  move. 


GARDENING,    ETC.  gg^J 


GARDENING. 

1092.  Proper  situation  for  a  Green-House, — The  aspect  of  a 

green-house  may  be  at  any  point  from  east  to  west,  following 
the  course  of  the  sun  ;  or,  it  may  even  be  a  little  to  the  north 
of  east  or  west ;  but  only  a  little,  and  the  less  the  better,  other- 
wise the  plants  will  not  generally  thrive  in  it,  nor  will  the 
flowers  acquire  their  natural  colors.  A  south  aspect  is  to  be 
preferred. 

1093.  On  preserving  Seeds  of  Plants  in  a  state  fit  for  Vege- 
tation.— Seeds  of  plants  may  be  preserved,  for  many  months 
at  least,  by  causing  them  to  be  packed,  either  in  husks,  pods, 
(fee,  in  absorbent  paper,  with  raisins  or  brown  moist  sugar; 
or,  a  good  way,  practised  by  gardeners,  is  to  wrap  the  seed  in 
brown  paper  or  cartridge  paper,  pasted  down,  and  then  varnish- 
ed over. 


1094.  To  facilitate  the  Growth  of  Foreign  Seeds, — Mr.  Hum* 
boldt  has  found,  that  seeds  which  do  not  commonly  germinate 
in  our  climate,  or  in  our  hot-houses,  and  which,  of  course,  we 
cannot  raise  for  our  gardens,  or  hope  to  naturalize  in  our  fields, 
become  capable  of  germinating,  when  immersed  for  some  days 
in  a  weak,  oxygenized  muriatic  acid.  This  interesting  discovery 
has  already  turned  to  advantage  in  several  botanic  gardens. 

1095.  To  plant  and  make  Edgings, — Edgings  of  daisies,  thrift, 
violets,  gentianella,  &c.,  should  be  planted  in  February ;  but 
those  of  box  succeed  better,  if  planted  in  April  or  August. 

1096.  To  train  Evergreen  and  other  Hedges, — Evergreen 
hedges  may  be  dipt  about  the  beginning,  but  not  later  than 
the  middle  of  April,  as  by  that  time  they  will  begin  to  grow — 
and  it  is  proper  that  this  work  should  be  previously  performed. 
Some  content  themselves  with  clipping  but  once  a  year,  in 
which  case  the  end  of  July,  or  first  of  August,  is  a  better  time. 

In  trimming  these,  or  indeed  any  hedge  intended  as  a  close 
fence,  they  should  be  dressed  up  to  a  thin  edge  at  top,  as  other- 
wise they  are  apt  to  get  full  of  gaps  below ;  and  the  cause  is 
obvious,  that  the  under  part,  in  square  or  cut  hedges,  is  too 
much  shaded  by  the  upper  part.     Now,   by  sloping  the  sides, 


292'  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million 

every  part  of  the  hedge  is  freely  exposed  to  the  air  ;  nor  is  any 
part  over-dropped  by  another.  A  hedge,  intended  merely  as 
a  fence,  need  seldom  be  more  than  five  feet  high,  or  at  most 
six.  Screen  hedges  may  be  allowed  to  run  to  any  height 
thought  necessary  for  the  purpose  ;  neither  is  it  requisite  to  trim 
them  so  often  as  fence-hedges ;  once  a  year,  or  in  two  years, 
may  be  sufficient. 

In  the  training  of  any  hedge,  it  should  not  be  topped  or  short- 
ened, till  it  has  arrived  at  a  full  yard  in  height ;  but  it  may 
then  have  a  little  taken  off  the  points,  in  order  to  make  it  bush 
the  better,  and  shoot  afterwards  of  a  more  regular  height ;  the 
sides,  however,  should  be  trimmed  from  the  second  or  third 
year  of  planting,  that  it  may  grow^  the  more  complete  and  close 
below,  for  therein  consists  the  excellence  of  any  fence.  It  should 
not  in  topping,  at  any  time  while  in  training,  be  much  cut  in, 
as  that  would  make  it  push  the  stronger  to  the  top,  to  the  detri- 
ment of  the  sides.  When  fence-hedges  outgrow  their  limits, 
they  must,  of  course,  be  cut  either  w^holly  or  partly  down ;  but 
if  they  be  tolerably  well  kept,  it  is  seldom  necessary  to  cut 
them  down  more  than  half  to  the  ground. 


1097.  How  to  cut  Box  lodgings, — Box  edgings  should  be  cut 
about  the  beginning  of  April,  or  in  the  end  of  July.  They 
should,  however,  be  cut  once  a  year,  and  should  be  kept  two 
inches  in  breadth  at  bottom  ;  being  tapered  up  to  a  thin  edge 
at  top ;  for  nothing  looks  so  ill  as  a  large,  bushy  edging,  espe- 
cially to  a  narrow  w^alk.  The  use  of  edging  is  to  separate  the 
earth  from  the  gravel ;  and  the  larger  they  are  allowed  to  grow, 
the  less  effectual  they  become ;  getting  the  more  open  below, 
as  they  advance  in  height.  Such  also  harbor  snails,  and  other 
troublesome  vermin. 


1098.  A  sure  method  of  curing  6^rawZ- PTaZ^^.—Three  parts 
pond-water  to  one  of  brine,  from  the  salting-tub  in  a  family, 
poured  w^ith  a  watering-pot  upon  gravel- walks,  will  not  only 
kill  the  moss  upon  them,  but  drive  aw^ay  the  worms  which 
make  so  many  holes  in  them,  and  also  prevent  weeds  springing 
up.  This  a  gentleman  lately  tried,  w^ho  has  several  gravel- 
walks  in  a  grove  near  his  house.  Since  he  moistened  his  w^alks 
with  brine — which  is  now  four  years  ago — they  are  incommoded 
neither  by  moss,  weeds,  nor  worms.  Every  autumn  he  causes 
them  to  be  well  watered  with  the  brine  and  pond-water,  during 


GARDBNING,   ETC.  293 

a  whole  week,  to  prevent  moss ;  and  a  week  in  the  spring,  to 
guard  against  weeds  and  worms ;  besides  giving  them  a  sprink- 
ling every  now  and  then,  in  the  summer-season,  when  they 
seem  to  want  it^ 


1099.  Proper  method  of  laying  Carnations, — In  summer, 
towards  the  latter-end  of  June,  or  any  time  in  July  or  begin- 
ning of  August,  when  the  shoots  of  the  year  are  advanced  to  a 
proper  growth,  being  from  four,  five,  or  six,  to  seven  or  eight 
inches  long,  which  are  to  be  laid  as  they  grow  on  the  plants, 
and  to  remain  affixed  thereto  till  rooted  on  the  ground. 

Thus  far  observed,  begin  the  work  by  first  clearing  away  all 
weeds  about  the  plants,  and  loosen  the  earth  a  little  around 
them,  and  if  the  surface  is  low,  add  some  mould  thereto  suffi 
cient  to  raise  it  high  enough  to  receive  the  layers  easily  ;  then 
begin  laying  the  shoots  one  by  one ;  strip  off  the  lower  leaves 
so  as  to  have  some  inches  of  a  clear  shoot  below ;  and  trim  the 
top  leaves  shorter  and  even,  and  then  slit  or  gash  the  shoot  on 
the  under  side  ;  in  doing  which,  fix  on  a  joint  about  the  middle 
of  the  shoot  underneath,  and  with  your  sharp  knife  cut  half 
through  the  joint,  and  slanting  upwards,  so  as  to  slit  the  shoot 
up  the  middle  half  an  inch,  or  but  little  more ;  which  done, 
directly  lay  it,  by  bending  it  down  to  the  earth  with  the  gash 
or  slit  part  open,  making  an  opening  in  the  earth,  and  peg  it 
down  With  one  or  two  of  the  small-hooked  sticks,  and  earth 
over  the  body  of  the  layer  an  inch  or  two  deep,  still  keeping 
the  slit  open  and  the  top  raised  gently  upright,  pressing  the 
earth  moderately  upon  them ;  and  in  this  manner  proceed  with 
laying  all  the  shoots  on  each  plant ;  and  when  all  are  laid,  give 
a  gentle  watering  to  settle  the  earth  close  about  the  layers, 
and  repeat  it  frequently  iii  dry  weather. 

They  will  soon  emit  roots  at  the  gash  or  slit  part,  generally  at 
the  bottom  of  the  tongue,  and  in  five  or  six  weeks  will  often  be 
rooted  fit  for  separating  and  planting  off  from  the  parent,  so 
that  when  they  have  been  about  five,  six,  or  seven  weeks  laid, 
you  will  examine  the  progress  they  have  made  in  rooting,  by 
opening  the  earth  gently  about  some  of  the  layers ;  and  as 
soon  as  they  appear  to  be  tolerably  rooted,  let  them  be  cut  off 
from  the  old  plant  with  a  sharp  knife,  in  order  to  be  timely 
planted  out  in  nursery  beds,  that  they  may  root  more  abun- 
dantly, and  get  due  strength  before  winter;  observing,  in  cut- 
ting them  off  from  the  mother  plant,  to  open  the  ground  so  as 


294.  MRS.   HALB's    receipts    for    the    MHbLlON. 

to  take  them  up  with  all  the  roots  they  have  made,  and  cut 
them  clean  off  beyond  the  gash;  afterwards  trim  off  any  naked 
woody  part  or  bottom,  but  preserve  all  the  roots,  and  trim  the 
long  tops  a  little,  then  plant  them  in  nursery  rows,  six  inches 
asunder,  or  you  may  prick  some  m  small  pots,  one  layer  in 
each,  giving  water  directly  at  planting,  and  repeat  it  often  in 
dry  weather  till  they  take  good  root,  and  grow  freely,  keeping 
them  clean  from  weeds. 

Those  in  the  nursery  beds  will,  by  October,  be  good  strong 
plants.  The  choicest  sorts  may  then  be  planted  in  pots,  to 
move  under  occasional  shelter  in  time  of  severe  frost,  and  for 
which  purpose,  either  use  small  pots  (32)  to  contain  them  all 
winter,  or  plant  them  in  large  pots  (24  or  16)  to  remain  to 
flower,  observing  to  take  them  up  out  of  the  nursery  beds  for 
potting,  &;c.,  with  a  garden  trowel,  each  layer  with  a  good  ball 
of  earth  about  the  roots ;  and  having  the  pots  ready,  place  a 
shell  over  the  holes  at  bottom,  and  put  some*^ood  light  rich 
earth  therein ;  plant  one  layer  with  its  ball  about  the  roots  en- 
tire in  each  pot,  fill  up  with  more  earth,  and  give  some  water ; 
you  may  also  at  the  same  time  plant  some  of  the  more  ordi- 
nary or  common  sorts  into  flower-borders  or  beds,  to  stand  the 
full  weather  all  the  year  ;  but  the  choicer  sorts  in  the  pots  may, 
in  November,  be  placed  close  together,  either  in  a  garden- 
frame,  to  have  occasional,  protection  of  the  glasses,  or  mats,  in 
severe  frost,  and  have  the  full  air  in  all  open  weather  and  mild 
days,  or  may  be  plunged  in  a  raised  bed  of  any  dry  compost, 
raised  some  inches  above  the  common  level,  and  arched  over 
with  hoop  arches,  in  order  to  be  protected  with  occasional  cov- 
ering of  garden  mats  when  hard  frosts  prevail ;  but  in  either 
method,  be  sure  to  expose  them  fully  in  all  open  weather,  as 
aforesaid. 

In  the  spring,  such  as  have  remained  all  winter  in  small  pots 
should,  in  February  or  early  in  March,  be  turned  out  with  the 
ball  of  earth  about  the  root,  and  planted  into  larger  pots,  to 
remain  for  flowering,  giving  proper  waterings-;  and  those  which 
were  potted  at  once  into  larger  pots  in  autumn  should  now  have 
the  earth  stirred  at  top,  taking  out  some,  and  fill  up  with  fresh 
good  earth,  and  give  a  little  water. 

The  layers  planted  in  the  common  borders  of  the  pleasure 
and  flower  garden  require  no  other  care  than  keeping  them 
clean  from  weeds,  and  tying  up  the  flower  stalks  to  sticks  when 
they  are  advanced  long  enough  to  require  support. 


GARDENING,    ETC.  295 

1100.  To  remove  Herhs  and  Mowers  in  the  Summer, — If  you 
have  occasion  to  transplant  in  the  summer  season,  let  it  be  in 
the  evening  after  the  heat  is  past ;  plant  and  vi^ater  the  same 
immediately,  and  there  will  be  no  danger  from  the  heat  next 
day ;  but  be  careful,  in  digging  up  the  earth,  you  do  not  break 
any  of  the  young  shoots,  as  the  sap  will  exude  out  of  the  same 
to  the  great  danger  of  the  plants. 


1101.  New  Method  of  raising  Cucumbers, — From  the  best 
seed  that  can  be  got  of  the  common  pnckly  cucumber,  raise 
plants  on  a  moderate  hot-bed,  not  hurrying  them  too  much  in 
their  growth.  In  May,  when  the  danger  of  the  frost  is  nearly 
over,  familiarize  the  plants,  by  degrees,  to  the  air,  and  towards 
the  latter  end  of  the  month  plant  them  in  the  open  ground 
against  a  south  wall.  Take  care  not  to  give  them  too  much 
water,  as  that  will  injure  the  fruit.  When  they  have  run  up 
about  five  feet,  they  will  send  forth  blossoms,  and  the  fruit  will 
begin  to  show  itself  soon  after.  The  flesh  of  cucumbers  raised 
in  this  manner  will  be  thicker  and  firmer,  and  the  flavor  vastly 
more  delicious,  than  those  raised  from  the  «ame  seed,  but 
planted  in  the  oi'dinary  way,  and  the  runners  suffered  to  trail 
on  the  ground.  Though  a  south  wall  in  most  gardens,  is  too 
much  appropriated  to  other  things,  to  give  room  for  cucumbers 
in  general,  yet  in  every  garden  a  few  plants  may  be  so  trained 
by  way  of  rarity,  and  to  save  seed,  which  is  found  to  be  greatly 
improved  by  this  method,  so  as  to  produce  much  better 
cucumbers  in  the  common  way  of  raising  them.  One  or  two 
plants,  so  raised,  will  supply  a  sufficient  quantity  of  seed  for  a 
large  garden. 

Laying  a  cucumber  or  melon-bed  with  tiles,  is  also  of  par- 
ticular service  in  improving  the  fruit,  and  giving  it  a  proper 
flavor. 


1102.  To  prevent  the  irregular  Growth  of  Melons. — It  is  well 
known  that  melons  frequently,  in  certain  situations,  lose  their 
circular  form,  and  grow  larger  on  one  side  than  the  other,  and 
that  those  misshapen  fruits  are  always  bad.  To  remedy  this, 
take  a  small  forked  stick,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  melon, 
and  thrust  it  in  the  ground  as  nearly  as  possible  to  the  tail  of 
the  fruit,  taking  the  precaution  to  lay  a  little  moss  between  the 
two  prongs,  and  suspend  the  melon  to  this  fork.  In  a  few  days 
the  melon  will  resume  its  form,  when  the  fork  may  be  removed, 


296  MRS.  hale's  keceipts  for  the  million. 

and  the  operation  is  finished.     The  quality  of  the  fruit  remaini 
unchanged, 

1103.  Easg  Method  of  producing  Mushrooms. — If  the  water 
wherein  mushrooms  have  been  steeped  or  washed  be  poured 
upon  an  old  bed,  or  if  the  broken  parts  of  mushrooms  be 
strewed  thereon,  there  will  speedily  arise  great  numbers. 


1104.  To  obtain  a  good  Crop  of  Onions, — In  order  to  obtain 
a  good  crop  of  onions,  it  is  proper  to  sow  at  different  seasons, 
viz.,  in  light  soils,  in  August,  January,  or  early  in  February ; 
and  in  heavy  wet  soils,  in  March,  or  early  in  April.  Onions, 
however,  should  not  be  sown  in  January,  unless  the  ground  be 
in  a  dry  state,  which  is  not  often  the  case  at  so  early  a  period 
of  the  season  ;  but  if  so,  advantage  should  be  taken  of  it. 


1105.  The  Advantage  of  sowing  Peas  in  Circles  instead  of 
straight  JRoivs. — It  is  a  great  error  in  those  persons  who  sow 
the  rows  of  tall-growing  peas  close  together.  It  is  much  better 
in  all  those  sorts,  which  grow  six  or  eight  feet  high,  to  have 
only  one  row,  and  then  to  leave  a  bed  ten  or  twelve  feet  wide 
for  onions,  carrots,  or  any  crops  which  do  not  grow  tall. 

The  advantages  which  will  be  derived  are,  that  the  peas  will 
not  be  drawn  up  so  much,  be  stronger,  will  flower  much  nearer 
to  the  ground,  and  in  wet  weather  can  be  more  easily  gathered 
without  wetting  you. 

But  instead  of  sowing  peas  in  straight  rows,  if  you  will  form 
the  ground  into  circles  of  three  feet  diameter,  with  a  space  of 
two  feet  between  each  circle,  in  a  row  thirty  feet  long,  you  will 
have  six  circles  of  peas,  each  nine  feet,  in  all  fifty -four  feet  of 
peas,  instead  of  thirty,  on  the  same  extent  of  ground. 

If  you  want  more  than  one  row  of  circles,  leave  a  bed  of  ten 
or  twelve  feet  before  you  begin  another. 

For  the  very  tall  sorts,  four  feet  circles  will  afford  more 
room  for  the  roots  to  grow  in,  and  care  must  be  taken,  by  ap- 
plying some  tender  twigs,  or  strings,  to  prevent  the  circles  from 
joining  each  other. 

This  method  is  equally  applicable  for  scarlet-beans. 


1106.  To  raise  Peas  in  Autumn,  and  to  prevent  Mice  from 
eating  them  when  sown, — The  purple-flowered  peas  are  found  to 
answer  best  for  a  late  crop  in  autumn,  as  they  are  not  so  liable 


GAEDENINQ,    ETC.  297 

to  be  mildewed  as  m^ny  of  the  other  sorts,  and  will  continue 
flowering  till  the  frost  stops  them. 

Those  peas  may  be  sown  in  July,  August,  or  so  late  as  the 
first  week  in  Septerfiber,  if  sown  in  a  warm,  sheltered  situation, 
and  in  a  soil  inclining  to  sand. 

Soak  the  peas  in  warm  milk,  and  after  you  have  drawn  the 
drills,  water  them  before  you  sow  the  peas ;  it  is  best  to  sow 
them  towards  the  evening.  If  the  autumn  should  prove  very 
dry,  they  will  require  frequent  watering. 

When  peas  are  sown  before  winter,  or  early  in  spring,  they 
are  very  apt  to  be  eaten  by  mice. 

To  prevent  this,  soak  the  peas  for  a  day  or  two  in  train  oil 
before  you  sow  them,  which  will  encourage  their  vegetation, 
and  render  them  so  obnoxious  to  the  mice,  that  they  will  not 
eat  them.   * 


1107.  Method  of  cultivating  Radishes  for  Salad^  so  as  to  have 
them  ready  at  all  seasons  of  the  year, — Take  seeds  of  the  common 
radish,  and  lay  them  in  rain-water  to  steep  for  twenty-four  hours  ; 
then  put  them  quite  wet  into  a  small  linen  bag,  well  tied  at  the 
mouth  with  packthread.  If  you  have  steeped  a  large  quantity 
of  seeds,  you  may  divide  them  into  several  bags.  Then  expose 
the  bags  in  a  place  where  they  will  receive  the  greatest  heat  of 
the  sun,  for  about  twenty-four  hours,  at  the  end  of  which  time 
the  seed  will  begin  to  grow,  and  you  may  then  sow  it  in  the 
usual  manner,  in  earth  well  exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  sun. 
Prepare  two  small  tubs  to  cover  each  other  exactly.  These 
may  be  easily  provided,  by  sawing  a  small  cask  through  the 
middle,  and  they  will  serve  in  winter ;  in  summer  one  will  be 
sufficient  for  each  kind  of  earth  that  has  been  sown.  As  soon 
as  you  have  sown  your  seeds  you  must  cover  them  with  your 
tub,  and  at  the  end  of  three  days  you  will  find  radishes  of  the 
size  and  thickness  of  young  lettuces,  having  at  their  extremities 
two  small  round  leaves,  rising  from  the  earth,  of  a  reddish 
color.  These  radishes,  cut  or  pulled  up,  will  be  excellent,  if 
mixed  with  salad,  and  they  have  a  much  more  delicate  taste 
than  the  common  radishes  which  are  eaten  with  salt. 

By  taking  the  following  precautions,  you  may  have  them  in 
the  winter,  and  even  during  the  hardest  frosts :  After  having 
steeped  the  seeds  in  warm  water,  and  exposed  them  to  the  sun, 
as  already  directed,  or  in  a  place  sufficiently  hot  to  make  them 
bhoot  forth,  warm  the  two  tubs ;  fill  one  of  them  with  earth 

13* 


298  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

well  dunged ;  sow  your  seeds;  thus  prepared,  in  one  of  them^ 
and  cover  it  with  the  other  tub ;  you  must  then  be  careful  to 
sprinkle  it  with  warm  water  as  often  as  may  be  necessary. 
Then  carry  the  two  tubs  closely  joined,  taking  care  they  cover 
each  other,  into  a  warm  vault,  or  cellar,  and  at  the  end  of  fif- 
teen days  you  may  gather  a  fine  salad. 


1108.  To  preserve  Strawberry  Plants  from  the  Heat  of  the 
Sun,  dec. — Sir  Joseph  Banks,  from  a  variety  of  experiments, 
and  the  experience  of  many  years,  recommends  a  general  revi- 
val of  the  Jiow  almost  obsolete  practice  of  laying  straw  under 
strawberry-plants,  when  the  fruit  begins  to  swell ;  by  which 
means  the  roots-  are  shaded  from  the  sun,  the  waste  of  moisture 
by  evaporation  prevented,  the  leaning  fruit  kept  from  damage 
by  resting  on  the  ground,  particularly  in  wet  weather,  and 
much  labor  in  watering  saved.  Twenty  trusses  of  long  straw 
are  suflftcient  for  1800  feet  of  plants. 

1109.  iJirections  for  managing  Strawberries  in  Summer, — On 
the  management  of  strawberries  in  June  and  July,  the  future 
prosperity  of  them  greatly  depends ;  and  if  each  plant  has  not 
been  kept  separate,  by  cutting  oflf  the  runners,  they  will  be  in 
a  state  of  confusion,  and  you  will  find  three  different  sorts  of 
plants.  ^ 

1.  Old  plants,  whose  roots  are  turned  black,  hard,  and 
woody. 

2.  Young  plants,  not  strong  enough  to  flower. 

3.  Flowering  plants,  which  ought  only  to  be  there,  and  per 
haps  not  many  of  them. 

Before  the  time  of  flowering  is  quite  over,  examine  them, 
and  pull  up  every  old  plant  which  has  not  flowered  ;  for,  if 
once  they  have  omitted  to  flower,  you  may  depend  upon  it 
they  never  will  produce  any  after,  being  too  old,  and  past  bear- 
ing ;  but  to  be  fully  convinced,  leave  two  or  three,  set  a  stick 
to  them,  and  observe  them  the  next  year. 

If  the  young  plants,  runners  of  last  year,  be  too  thick,  take 
some  of  them  away,  and  do  not  leave  them  nearer  than  a  foot 
of  the  scarlet,  alpines,  and  w^ood,  and  fifteen  or  sixteen  inches 
of  all  the  larger  sorts ;  and  in  the  first  rainy  weather  in  July  or 
A.ugust,  take  them  all  up,  and  make  a  fresh  plantation  with 
them,  and  they  will  be  very  strong  plants  for  flowering  next 
year* 


GARDENING,    ETC.  299 

Old  beds,  even  if  the  plants  be  kept  single  at  their  proper 
distance,  examine,  and  pull  all  the  old  plants  which  have  not 
flowered. 

When  the  fruit  is  nearly  all  gathered,  examine  them  again, 
and  cut  off  the  runners  ;  but  if  you  want  to  make  a  fresh  plant- 
ation, leave  some  of  the  two  first,  and  cut  off  all  the  rest.  Then 
stir  up  the  ground  with  a  trowel,  or  three-pronged  fork,  and  in 
August  they  will  be  fit  to  transplant. 

If  you  have  omitted  in  July,  do  not  fail  in  August,  that  the 
runners  may  make  good  roots,  to  be  transplanted  in  Septem 
ber ;  for,  if  later,  the  worms  wHl  draw  them  out  of  the  ground, 
and  the  frost  afterwards  will  prevent  them  from  striking  root ; 
the  consequence  of  which  is,  their  not  flowering  the  next  spring ; 
and  you  will  lose  a  year. 


1110.  To  cultivate  the  common  Garden  Rhubarb, — It  is  not 
enough  to  give  it  depth  of  good  soil,  but  it  must  be  watered  in 
drought ;  and  in  winter  must  be  well  covered  with  straw  or 
dung.  If  this  is  attended  to,  your  rhubarb  will  be  solid  when 
taken  out  of  the  ground ;  and  your  kitchen,  if  a  warm  one, 
will  soon  fit  it  for  use. 


1111.  Method  of  cultivating  and  curing  Turkey  Rhubarb  from 
Seed. — The  seed  should  be  sown  about  the  beginning  of  Febru- 
ary, on  a  bed  of  good  soil,  (if  rather  sandy,  the  better)  exposed 
to  an  east  or  west  aspect  in  preference  to  the  south  ;  a  full  sua 
being  prejudicial  to  the  vegetation  of  the  seeds,  and  to  the 
plants  whilst  young. 

The  seeds  are  best  sown  moderately  thick,  (broad  cast)  tread 
ing  them  regularly  in,  as  is  usual  with  parsnips  and  other  light 
seeds,  and  then  raking  the  ground  smooth.  When  the  season 
is  wet,  make  a  bed  for  sowing  the  rhubarb  seeds  upon,  about 
two  feet  thick,  with  new  dung  from  the  stable,  covering  it  near 
)ne  foot  thick  with  good  soil.  The  intent  of  this  bed  is  not  for 
the  sake  of  warmth,  but  solely  to  prevent  the  rising  of  earth- 
worms, which  in  a  moist  season  will  frequently  destroy  the 
young  crop. 

If  the  seed  is  good,  the  plants  often  rise  too  thick ;  if  so, 
when  they  have  attained  six  leaves,  they  should  be  taken  up 
carefully,  (where  too  close),  leaving  the  standing  crop  eight  or 
ten  inches  apart :  those  taken  up  may  be  planted  at  the  same 
distance  in  a  fresh  spot  of  ground,  in  order  to  furnish  other 


300  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

plantations.  When  the  plants  in  general  are  grown  to  the  size 
that  cabbage-plants  are  usually  set  out  for  a  standing  crop,  they 
are  best  planted  where  they  are  to  remain,  in  beds  four  feet 
wide,  one  row  along  the  middle  of  the  bed,  leaving  two  yards' 
distance  between  the  plants,  allowing  an  alley  between  the  beds 
about  a  foot  wide,  for  conveniency  of  weeding  the  plants. 

In  the  autumn,  when  the  decayed  leaves  are  removed,  if  the 
shoveling  of  the  alleys  is  thrown  over  the  crowns  of  the  plants, 
it  will  be  found  of  service. 


1112.  Cultivation  of  Turkey  Rhubarb^  by  offsets. — Slip  off 
several  offsets  from  the  heads  of  large  plants;  set  them  with 
a  dibble  about  a  foot  apart,  in  order  to  remove  them  into  ^ther 
beds ;  and,  in  the  autumn,  they  will  be  in  a  thriving  state. 

>^1113.  Method  of  curing  Rhubarb. — The  plants  may  be  taken 
up,  either  early  in  the  spring  or  in  autumn,  when  the  leaves 
are  decayed,  in  dry  weather,  if  possible :  when  the  roots  are  to 
be  cleared  from  dirt,  (without  washing,)  let  them  be  cut  into 
pieces,  and,  with  a  sharp  knife,  freed  from  the  outer  coat,  and 
exposed  to  the  sun  and  air  for  a  few  days,  to  render  the  outside 
a  little  dry. 

In  order  to  accelerate  the  curing  of  the  largest  pieces,  a  hole 
may  be  scooped  out  with  a  pen-knife ;  these  and  the  smaller 
parts  are  then  to  be  strung  on  packthread,  and  hung  up  in  a 
warm  room,  where  it  is  to  remain  till  perfectly  dry.  Each 
piece  may  be  rendered  more  sightly  by  a  common  file,  fixing  it 
in  a  small  vice  during  that  operation ;  afterwards  rub  over  it 
a  very  fine  powder,  which  the  small  roots  furnish  in  beautiful 
perfection,  for  this  and  every  other  purpose  where  rhubarb  is 
required. 

An  easier  and  simpler  method  of  drying  rhubarb  is,  after 
cutting  the  root  into  handsome  pieces,  to  wrap  up  each  sepa- 
rately, in  one  or  more  pieces  of  whitish-brown  paper,  and  then 
to  place  them  on  th^hob  of  a  common  Bath  stove.  Lemon 
and  orange-peel  dry  beautifully  in  this  way. 


1114.  Proper  Soil  for  the  culture  of  Turnips, — Sandy  loams, 
in  good  heart,  are  most  favorable  to  their  growth,  though  they 
will  thrive  well  on  strong  loams,  if  they  are  not  wet ;  but  on 
clayey,  thin,  or  wet  soils,  they  are  not  worth  cultivating;  for 
though  a  good  crop  may  be  raiseu  on  such  ground,  when  weil 


GARDENING,    ETC.  301 

prepared  and  dunged,  more  damage  is  done  by  taking  off  the 
turnips  in  winter,  in  poaching* the  soil,  than  the  value  of  the 
crop  will  repay. 

1115.  Preservation  of  Succulent  Plants, — Green  succulent 
plants  are  better  preserved  after  a  momentary  immersion  in 
boiling  water,  than  otherwise.  This  practice  has  been  success- 
fully used  in  the  preservation  of  cabbage  and  other  plants,  dried 
for  keeping;  it  destroys  the  vegetable  life  at  once,  and,  in  a 
great  degree,  prevents  that  decay  which  otherwise  attends  them. 

IIIG.  Various  useful  properties  of  Tobacco  to  Gardeners. — 
Tobacco  is  employed  for  so  many  different  uses,  that  there  is 
no  person  possessed  of  a  garden  but  will  find  both  pleasure 
and  profit  in  the  cultivation  of  it,  especially  as  it  is  now  at 
such  a  high  price.  The  seed  is  very  cheap,  and  may  be  pro- 
cured of  most  nurserymen,  and  will  answer  the  same  end  as 
the  foreign  for  most  purposes,  and  considerably  cheaper. 

Uses  to  which  it  may  he  applied. — 1.  To  florists,  for  two  ele- 
gant annual  plants  to  decorate  the  borders  of  the  flower-garden  ; 
or,  on  account  of  their  height,  to  fill  up  vacant  places  in  the 
shrubberies ;  or,  when  put  into  pots,  they  will  be  very  orna- 
mental in  the  green-house  during  the  winter. 

2.  Kitchen-gardeners  would  in  a  few  days  lose  their  crops 
of  melons,  if  not  immediately  fumigated  with  tobacco-smoke, 
when  attacked  by  the  red  spider ;  and  it  is  useful  to  destroy 
the  black  flies  on  cucumbers  in  frames. 

3.  Fruit-gardeners.  When  peach  and  nectarine-trees  have 
their  leaves  curled  up,  and  the  shoots  covered  with  smother- 
flies  ;  or,  the  cherry-trees  have  the  ends  of  the  shoots  infested 
with  the  black  dolphin-fly ;  canvas,  pack-sheets,  or  doubled 
mats,  nailed  before  them,  and  frequently  fumigated  under  them, 
will  destroy  those  insects. 

4.  Forcing-gardeners,  who  raise  roses  and  kidney-beans  in 
stoves,  can  soon  destroy  the  green  flies  which  cover  the  stalks 
and  buds  of  roses,  and  the  insects  which  appear  like  a  mildew 
on  kidney-beans,  by  the  assistance  of  the  fumigating  bellows. 

5.  Nurserymen.  When  the  young  shoots  of  standard  cherry- 
trees,  or  any  other  trees,  are  covered  with  the  black  dolphin- 
flies,  an  infusion  is  made  with  the  leaves  and  stalks  of  tobacco ; 
a  quantity  is  put  into  an  earthen  pan,  or  small,  oblong  wooden 
trough  ;  one  person  holds  this  up,  whilst  another  gently  bends 


302  MRS.  half/s  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

the  top  of  each  tree,  and  lets  the  branches  remain  about  a  minute 
in  the  liquor,  which  destroys  th^m. 

G.  Graziers,  when  their  sheep  are  infected  with  the  scab,  find 
relief  from  making  a  sheep-water  with  an  infusion  of  the  leaves 
and  stalks.  Moles,  w^hen  only  a  few  hills  are  at  first  observed, 
may  probably  be  soon  driven  out  of  the  ground,  by  fumigating 
their  holes. 

7.  Herb  tobacco  is  also  greatly  improved  by  having  some  of 
the  leaves,  when  dried,  cut  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  mixed 
with  the  herbs  in  any  quantity  you  may  think  proper,  according 
to  the  strength  you  require,  and  save  you  the  expense  of  buying 
tobacco. 

The  herbs  generally  used  for  this  purpose  are  colt's-foot  and 
wood  betony-leaves ;  the  leaves  and  flowers  of  lavender,  rose- 
mary, thyme,  and  some  others  of  the  like  nature. 


THE  ORCHARD. 

1117.  To  prevent  Blossom  and  Fruit-trees  from  being  damaged 
by  early  Spring  Frost, — If  a  rope  (a  hempen  one,  it  is  presumed) 
be  introduced  among  the  branches  of  a  fruit-tree  la  blossom, 
and  the  end  of  it  brought  down,  so  as  to  terminate  in  a  bucket 
of  water ;  and,  should  a  slight  frost  take  place  in  the  night- 
time, in  that  case  the  tree  will  not  be  affected  by  the  frost ; 
but  a  film  of  ice,  of  considerable  thickness,  will  be  formed  on 
the  surface  of  the  bucket  in  which  the  rope's-end  is  immersed, 
although  it  has  often  happened  that  another  bucket  of  water, 
placed  beside  it  for  the  sake  of  experiment,  has  had  no  ice  at  all 
upon  it. 

1118.  Chinese  mode  of  propagating  Fruit-trees, — The  ingenious 
people  of  China  have  a  common  method  of  propagating  several 
kinds  of  fruit-trees,  which  of  late  years  has  been  practised  with 
success  in  Bengal.  The  method  is  simply  this : — They  strip 
a  ring  of  bark,  about  an  inch  in  width,  from  a  bearing  branch, 
surround  the  place  with  a  ball  of  fat  earth,  or  loam,  bound  fast 
to  the  branch  with  a  piece  of  matting  :  over  this  they  suspend 
a  pot  or  horn,  w^ith  water,  having  a  small  hole  in  the  bottom 
just  sufficient  to  let  the  water  drop,  in  order  to  keep  the  earth 
constantly  moist.  The  branch  throws  new  roots  into  the  earth 
just  above  the  place  where  the  ring  of  bark  was  stripped  cfF. 


THE    ORCnARD,    ETC.  303 

rhe  operation  is  performed  in  the  spring,  and  the  branch  is 
Bawed  off  and  put  into  the  ground  at  the  fall  of  the  leaf.  The 
following  year  it  will  bear  fruit. 

1119.  To  improve  Fruit-trees  hij  attention  to  the  Color  of  tht 
Soil, — The  color  and  also  the  quality  of  soils  have  an  effect 
on  the  color  and  flavor  of  fruits — even  on  the  color  of  many 
flowers.  The  effects  of  the  color  of  soils  on  that  of  fruits,  are 
most  perceptible  on  the  delicate  kinds,  such  as  grapes,  peaches, 
&c. ;  but  to  a  nice  observer,  it  extends  in  a  greater  or  less  de- 
gree to  all  fruits.  For  instance,  if  two  black  Hamburgh  grapes, 
made  from  the  cuttings  of  the  same  plant,  shall  be  planted,  the 
one  in  a  dry,  hazelly  loam,  and  the  other  in  a  moist,  black  earth, 
the  fruit  of  the  one  will  be  brown,  or  of  a  grizzly  color,  and  the 
other  very  dark  red  or  black  ;  and  the  grape  will  be  more  juicy, 
though  better  in  flavor,  than  the  other  grown  in  a  dryer  soil. 


1120.  To  increase  the  Growth  in  Trees. — It  may  be  depended 
upon  as  a  fact,  that  by  occasionally  washing  the  stems  of  trees, 
their  growth  will  be  greatly  increased  ;  for  several  recent  experi- 
ments have  proved,  that  all  the  ingredients  of  vegetation  united, 
which  are  received  from  the  roots,  stem,  branches,  and  leaves 
of  a  mossy  and  dirty  tree,  do  not  produce  half  the  increase 
either  in  wood  or  fruit,  that  another  gains  whose  stem  is  clean. 
It  is  clearly  obvious,  that  proper  nourishment  cannot  be  re- 
ceived from  rain,  for  the  dirty  stem  will  retain  the  moisture 
longer  than  when  clean ;  and  the  moss  and  dirt  will  absorb  the 
finest  parts  of  the  dew,  and  likewise  act  as  a  screen,  by  de- 
priving the  tree  of  that  share  of  sun  and  air  which  it  requires. 

A  common  scrubbing-brush  and  clean  water  is  all  that  is  ne- 
cessary, only  care  must  be  observed  not  to  injure  the  bark. 


1121.  To  prevent  Hares  and  Rahhits  from  Barking  young 
Plantations. — Hares,  rabbits,  and  rats,  have  a  natural  antipathy 
^'to  tar;  but  tar,  though  fluid,  contracts,  when  exposed  to  the 
sun  and  air  for  a  time,  a  great  dryness  and  a  very  binding 
quality  ;  and  if  applied  to  trees  in  its  natural  state,  will  occasion 
them  to  be  bark-bound.  To  remove  this  difliculty,  tar  is  of  so 
strong  a  savor,  that  a  small  quantity  mixed  with  other  things, 
in  then-  nature  open  and  loose,  will  give  the  whole  mixture  such 
a  degree  of  its  own  taste  and  smell,  as  will  prevent  hares,  dsc, 
touching  what  it  is  applied  to. 


304  MRS.    HALE^S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

"Take  anj  quantity  of  tar,  and  six  or  seven  times  as  much 
grease,  stirring  and  mixing  them  well  together ;  with  this  com- 
position brush  the  stems  of  young  trees,  as  high  as  hares,  &c., 
can  reach ;  and  it  will  effectually  prevent  their  being  barked. 


1122  Bad  effects  of  Iron  Nails ^  c&c,  on  Fruit-trees^  or  mis- 
chievous effects  of  Iron  Nails ^  in  conjunction  loith  Branches  of 
Fruit-trees — It  often  happens  that  some  of  the  limbs  of  fruit- 
trees,  trained  against  a  wall,  are  blighted  and  die,  while  others 
remain  in  a  healthy  and  flourishing  state.  This  has  been 
hitherto  erroneously  attributed  to  the" effects  of  lightning;  but, 
from  closer  observation,  and  from  several  experiments,  it  has 
been  found  to  arise  from  the  corroding  effects  of  the  rust  of  the 
nails  and  cramps  with  which  trees  in  this  situation  are  fastened. 
To  avoid  this  inconvenience,  therefore,  it  requires  only  to  be 
careful  in  preventing  the  iron  from  coming  in  contact  with  the 
bark  of  the  trees. 


1123.  To  destroy  Moss  on  Trees. — Remove  it  with  a  hard 
scrubbing-brush,  in  February  and  March,  and  wash  the  trees 
with  cow-dung,  urine,  and  soap-suds. 

1124.  Necessity  of  taking  off  superfluous  Suckers  from  Shrubs. 
< — Many  flowering  shrubs  put  out  strong  suckers  from  the  root, 
such  as  lilacs,  syringa,  and  some  of  the  kinds  of  roses,  which 
take  greatly  from  the  strength  of  the  mother-plant ;  and  which, 
if  not  wanted  for  the  purpose  of  planting  next  season,  should 
be  twisted  off*  or  otherwise  destroyed. 


1125.  To  cure  the  Disease  in  Apple-trees. — Brush  oflT  the 
white  down,  clear  off  the  red  stain  underneath  it,  and  anoint 
the  places  infected  with  a  liquid  mixture  of  train-oil  and  Scotch- 
snuff. 


1126.  To  cure  the  Canker  in  Trees. — Cut  them  off  to  the 
quick,  and  apply  a  piece  of  sound  bark  from  any  other  tree, 
and  bind  it  on  with  a  flannel  roller.  Cut  off  the  canker,  and 
a  new  shoot  will  grow  strong,  but  in  a  year  or  two  you  will 
find  it  cankered. 


1127.  A  method  of  curing  Fruit-trees  infected  with  an  Easterly 
Blight. — Where  valuable  fruit-trees  are  infected  with  this  blight, 


OllCHAllDS,    TPvEES,    ETC.  305 

they  may^  with  little  trouble  and  expense  be  in  a  short  time 
cured,  by  fumigating  them  with  brimstone  strewed  on  lighted 
charcoal;  this  effectually  kills  it;  but  the  workman  must  ob- 
serve to  get  to  windward  of  the  trees,  as  the  fumes,  both  of 
brimstone  and  charcoal,  are  very  offensive  and  pernicious. 

Mr.  Miller  recommends  washing  and  sprinkling  the  blighted 
trees  from  time  to  time,  with  common  water,  {that  is,  such  as 
hath  not  had  anything  steeped  in  it,)  and  the  sooner  that  is 
performed,  (whenever  we  apprehend  danger,)  the  better ;  and 
if  the  young  and  tender  shoots  seem  to  be  much  infected,  wash 
them  with  a  woollen  cloth,  so  as  to  clear  them,  if  possible, 
from  all  glutinous  matter,  that  their  respiration  and  perspiration 
may  not  be  obstructed ;  and  if  some  broad,  flat  pans,  or  tubs, 
are  placed  near  the  trees,  it  will  keep  their  tender  parts  in  a 
ductile  state,  and  greatly  help  them  ;  but  whenever  this  ope- 
ration  of  washing  the  trees  is  performed,  it  should  be  early  in  . 
the  day,  that  the  moisture  may  be  exhaled  before  the  cold 
of  the  night  comes  on,  especially  if  the  nights  are  frosty;  nor 
should  it  be  done  when  the  sun  shines  very  hot  upon  the  wall, 
which  would  be  subject  to  scorch  up  the  tender  blossom. 


1128.  Experienced  method  of  healing  Wounds  in  Trees, — This 
method  consists  in  making  a  varnish  of  common  linseed  oil, 
rendered  very  drying,  by  boiling  it,  for  the  space  of  an  hour, 
with  an  ounce  of  litharge  to  each  pound  of  oil,  mixed  with 
calcined  bones,  pulverized  and  sifted,  to  the  consistence  of  an 
almxost  liquid  paste.  With  this  paste  the  wounds  of  trees  are 
to  be  covered,  by  means  of  a  brush,  after  the  bark  and  other 
substance  have  been  pared,  so  as  to  render  the  whole  as  smooth 
and  even  as  possible.  The  varnish  must  be  applied  in  dry 
weather,  in  order  that  it  may  attach  itself  properly. 


1129.  Composition  for  healing  Wounds  in  Trees, — Take  of 
dry,  pounded  chalk,  three  measures  ;  add  of  common  vegetable 
tar,  one  measure  ;  mix  them  thoroughly,  and  boil  them,  with 
a  low  heat,  till  the  composition  becomes  of  the  consistency  of 
bees'-wax :  it  may  be  preserved  for  use,  in  this  state,  for  any 
length  of  time.  If  chalk  cannot  conveniently  be  got,  dry  bricks 
dust  may  be  substituted. 

Application, — After  the  broken  or  decayed  limb  has  been 
sawed  off,  the  whole  of  the  saw-cut  must  be  very  carefully  pared 
away,  and  the  rough  edges  of  the  bark,  in  particular  nmst  be 

20 


306  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  thb  million. 

made  quite  smooth  ;  the  doing  of  this  properly  is  of  great  con- 
sequence then  lay  on  the  above  composition,  hot,  about  the 
thickness  of  half-a-dollar,  over  the  wounded  place,  and  over  tho 
edges  of  the  surrounding  bark  ;  it  should  be  spread  with  a  hot 
trowel. 


1130.  To  prune  Wall  Fruit, — Cut  off  all  fresh  shoots,  how- 
ever  fair  they  may  appear  to  the  eye,  that  will  not,  without 
much  bending,  be  well  placed  to  the  wall ;  for  if  any  branch 
happen  to  be  twisted  or  bruised  in  the  bending  or  turning 
(which  you  may  not  easily  perceive),  although  it  may  grow 
and  prosper  for  the  present,  yet  it  will  decay  in  time,  and  the 
sap  or  gum  will  issue  from  that  place. 

1131.  To  prime  Vines  to  Advantage, — In  pruning  vines,  leave 
some  new  branches  every  year,  and  take  away  (if  too  many) 
some  of  the  old,  which  will  be  of  great  advantage  to  the  tree, 
and  much  increase  the  quantity  of  fruit. 

When  you  trim  your  vine,  leave  two  knots,  and  cut  them 
off  the  next  time ;  for,  usually,  the  two  buds  yield  a  bunch  of 
grapes.  Vines,  thus  pruned,  have  been  known  to  bear  abun- 
dantly, whereas  others  that  have  been  cut  close  to  please  the 
eye,  have  been  almost  barren  of  fruit. 

1132.  The  most  proper  Times  when  Leaves  of  Trees  ought  to 
he  collected  for  pharmaceutical  and  economical  Purposes. — It  is  at 
that  period  when  the  plant  is  in  full  flower,  that  the  leaves  pos- 
sess their  full  virtue.  They  drop  off  when  their  particular  life 
has  terminated. 


TIMBER. 

1133.  To  promote  the  Growth  of  Forest-tr^es, — It  is  highly  to 
be  censured,  the  neglect  of  permitting  ivy-twines,  which  grow 
to  forest-trees,  to  remain  attached  to  them.  Their  roots  enter- 
ing into  the  bark,  rob  the  trees  of  much  of  their  nourishment ; 
they  in  a  manner  strangle  their  supporters,  by  impeding  the 
circulation  of  their  juices,  and  in  time  destroy  the  trees.  They 
should  be  torn  up  by  the  roots,  for,  if  any  part  of  them  adhere 
to  the  tree,  they  will  spread,  as  they  obtain  nourishment  by  their 
adhering  roots. 


TIMBER,    BnADB   TREES,    BTO  8Q1 

1134.  White-washing  the  Trunks  of  Trees ^  recommended,-^ 
Being  one  day  upon  a  visit  (observes  Mr.  Northmore,  who 
recommends  this  experiment)  at  m^  friend's  near  Yarmouth, 
in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  I  remarked  that  several  of  the  trunks  of 
trees  in  his  orchard  had  been  covered  with  whitewash  ;  upon 
hiquiring  the  reason,  he  replied,  that  he  had  done  it  with  a  view 
'to  keep  oif  the  hares,  and  other  animals,  and  that  it  was 
attended  not  only  with  that  good  effect,  but  several  others,  for 
it  made  the  rind  smooth  and  compact,  by  closing  up  the  cracks ; 
it  entirely  destroyed  the  moss;  and  as  the  rains  washed  off  the 
lime,  it  manured  the  roots.  These  several  advantages,  derived 
from  so  simple  a  practice,  deserve  to  be  more  generally  known. 
The  white-wash  is  made  in  the  usual  manner  with  lime,  and  . 
may  be  appl  <».d  twice,  or  oftener,  if  necessary. 


1135.  To  cure  Wounds  in  Trees, — Wounds  in  trees  are  best 
cured  by  covering  them  with  a  coat  of  common  lead  paint  with- 
out turpentine  (for  turpentine  is  poison  to  vegetation)  in  the 
sun,  on  a  fine  dry  day. 

1136.  Trees  for  Shade,  Nursery  Trees,  c&c, — Forest  Trees 
selected  for  shade  should  be  of  kinds  not  liable  to  be  attacked 
by  worms  and  insects.  The  rock  or  sugar  maple  is  always  re- 
markably free  from  worms,  and  it  makes  the  most  dense  and 
beautiful  shade  of  all  our  deciduous  trees.  This  is  becoming  a 
very  popular  tree,  and  we  hope  to  see  it  extensively  propa 
gated.  There  is  no  more  risk  in  transplanting  this  than  the 
elm,  and  the  limbs  are  not  liable  to  be  broken  by  the  winds 
and  snow. 

We  believe  it  is  generally  admitted  that  transplanted  trees 
succeed  best  when  their  early  growth  has  been  in  soil  similar 
to  that  for  which  they  are  destined  to  be  placed  permanently. 
If  raised  in  such  a  soil,  and  transplanted  to  that  which  is  thin 
and  poor,  they  seem  to  receive  a  shock  from  which  with  diffi- 
culty they  recover.  As  a  gentleman  once  remarked,  it  is  like 
feeding  a  calf  with  all  the  milk  he  will  take  till  he  is  six 
months  old,  and  then  suddenly  turning  him  off  to  live  on  a  short 
pasture. 

Large  trees  may  be  as  successfully  planted  as  small  ones. 
The  mode  and  result  of  an  experiment  made  by  Messrs.  Pome- 
roy  and  Dutton,  of  Utica,  are  thus  given  :  Those  gentlemen 
transplanted  trees,  comprising  maples,  elm,  beech,  &c.,  some 


808  MRS.  iiale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

thirty  feet  in  height,  which  were  transplanted  without  being 
shorn  of  any  of  their  branches.  The  process  of  removal  was  aa 
follows : — In  the  fall,  before  the  frost,  a  trench  was  dug  around 
the  trees  selected,  from  ten  to  fifteen  feet  in  diameter,  and  the 
roots  severed.  In  the  winter  when  the  ground  had  become 
solid  from  freezing,  the  trees  were  pulled  out  by  the  aid  of 
oxen  and  levers,  with  the  mass  of  earth  firmly  attached  to  the 
roots.  They  were  then  transported  erect  on  a  strong  sled,  built 
for  the  purpose,  and  set  out. 

These  trees  grew  in  open  land,  a  mile  and  a  half  from  the 
city.  They  put  on  their  foliage  last  spring,  as  if  wholly  uncon- 
scious that  they  were  not  still  in  their  native  soil,  and  the  en- 
•  terprising  gentlemen  who  undertook  this  unusual  course,  are 
rewarded  with  shade  trees  which  by  the  old  practice  it  would 
have  required  twenty  years  to  produce. 

Summer  pruning  is  sometimes  necessary  in  order  to  give  form 
and  proper  direction  to  nursery  trees,  and  standard  trees  may 
need  thinning,  in  order  to  expose  the  fruit  to  light  and  air;  but 
in  pruning  trees  thoroughly,  particularly  if  large  limbs  are  to 
be  cut  off,  it  is  best  to  defer  the  business  till  the  last  of  July, 
August,  or  the  former  part  of  September. 

Late  in  summer  and  early  in  autumn,  the  bark  does  not  peel 
as  it  does  early  in  the  summer,  when  it  often  starts  from  the 
tree  which  is  injured  by  going  into  trees  and  stepping  on  limbs 
with  hard  shoe.^.  The  sap  will  ooze  out  of  some  trees  early  in 
summer,  which  not  only  injures  them  generally,  but  it  often 
causes  the  wounded  part  to  decay. 

But  in  late  pruning,  the  wood,  when  the  branch  is  cut  off,  be- 
comes sound  and  well  seasoned;  and  though  it  may  not  heal 
over  so  readily  as  when  cut  early  in  summer  or  spring,  it  re 
mains  in  a  healthy  state. 


1137.  To  preserve  Wood  in  Damp  Situations, — Two  coats  of 
the  following  preparation  are  to  be  applied,  after  which  the 
wood  is  subject  to  no  deterioration  whatever  from  humidity. 
Twelve  pounds  of  resin  are  to  be  beaten  in  a  mortar,  to  which 
three  pounds  of  sulphur  and  twelve  pints  of  whale  oil  are  to  be 
added.  This  mixture  is  to  be  melted  over  the  fire,  and  stirred 
during  the  operation.  Ochre,  reduced  to  an  impalpable  pow- 
der, by  triturating  it  with  oil,  may  then  be  combined  in  the 


TIMBER,    SHADE   TREES,    ETC.  ^  309 

proportion  necessary  to  give  either  a  lighter  or  a  darker  color 
to  the  material.  The  first  coat  should  be  put  on  lightly,  having 
been  previously  heated ;  the  second  may  be  applied  in  twa 
or  three  days,  and  a  third  after  an  equal  interval,  if  from  the 
peculiar  dampness  of  the  situation  it  should  be  judged  expe- 
dient. 

Remark. — It  is  highly  probable  (though  the  experiment  has 
not  been  tried)  that  this  composition  would  be  improved  by 
adding  a  small  portion  of  the  liquid  leather,  which  is  now  com- 
monly sold  in  London,  being  the  refuse  of  the  purification  of 
fish  oil  by  tar. 

Where  the  work  will  bear  the  expense,  and  is  not  exposed  to 
a  heat  of  more  than  130  degrees  of  Fahrenheit,  the  best  com- 
position is  the  following  :  Equal  parts  of  turpentine  (the  fluid 
resin,  not  the  essential  oil),  bees'-wax,  black  resin  and  maltha, 
or  coal  tar,  boiled  together  till  they  cease  to  rise — that  is,  till 
the  white  cream  or  scum  proceeding  from  the  separation  of  the 
essential  oil  disappears.  Apply  it  warm  with  a  turpentine 
brush— two  or  three  coats,  to  cover  the  cracks  or  pores  left  by 
the  brush.  This  lute  was  first  proposed  by  Chaptal,  without 
the  addition  of  the  coal  tar,  which  is  a  gr^at  improvement.  A 
piece  of  wood  covered  with  three  coats  cif  it,  and  immersed  for 
two  years  in  water,  was  found  to  be  quite  dry  on  cutting  off'the 
lute. 

Take  care  not  to  allow  water  to  fall  ir  to  the  pan,  as  it  would 
make. the  hot  materials  explode.  If  the  composition  catch  fire, 
put  on  the  cover  directly,  and  remove  the  pan  for  an  instant 
from  the  fire. 


1138.  Cause  and  Prevention  of  the  Lry  Rot, — The  cause  of 
the  dry  rot  in  wood  is  moisture;  and  to  prevent  well-dried 
timber  from  decaying  above  or  under  ground,  is  done  by  char- 
ring it  well. 


1139.  Cure  for  the  Dry  Rot  in  Timber^  so  as  to  make  it  inde" 
,  structible  by  Water, — Melt  twelve  ounces  of  resin  in  an  iron 
pot;  add  three  gallons  of  train  oil,  and  three  or  four  rolls  of 
brimstone  ;  and  when  the  brimstone  and  resin  are  melted  and 
become  thin,  add  as  much  Spanish  brown,  or  red  and  yellow 
ochre,  or  any  other  color  required,  first  ground  fine  with  the 
same  oil,  as  will  give  the  whole  a  shade  (^f  the  depth  preferred ; 
then  lay  it  on  with  a  brush  as  hot  and  thin  as  possible ;  som« 


810  m;is.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

time  after  the  first  coat  is  dried,  give  it  a  second.  This  prepa^ 
ration  will  preserve  planks  for  ages,  and  keep  the  weather  from 
driving  through  brick  work. 

1140.  Method  of  trying  the  Goodness  of  Timber  for  Ship* 
building,  used  in  the  Arsenal  at  Vienna. — One  person  applies 
his  ear  to  the  centre  of  one  end  of  the  trunk,  while  another, 
with  a  key,  hits  the  other  end  with  a  gentle  stroke.  If  the 
tree  be  sound  and  good,  the  stroke  will  be  distinctly  heard  at 
the  other  end,  though  the  tree  should  be  a  hundred  feet  or 
more  in  length. 


1141.  To  season  and  render  Green  Timber  immediately  fit 
for  use, — After  the  timber  has  been  cut  down  from  the  stock, 
take  off,  immediately,  both  the  outer  bark  and  also  the  inner 
rind,  clean  to  the  wood ;  cut  it  up  to  the  diffei'cnt  purposes  for 
which  it  may  be  wanted,  whether  scantlings  for  roofings,  joists, 
planks,  deals,  or  the  like.  After  preparing  them  for  their 
proper  use,  steep  them  in  lime-water  a  few  days,  or  pay  them 
over  with  a  little  of  the  lime,  along  with  the  water.  The  hotter 
it  is  used  after  the  lime  is  slaked,  so  much  the  better.  Lime- 
water  is  made  by  slaking  the  lime-shells  in  water.  This  will 
answer  equally  well  for  round  trees.  The  author  of  this  method 
says,  he  has  been,  for  a  great  number  of  years  past,  used  to 
take  down  and  repair  both  ancient  and  modern  buildings,  in 
which  a  good  deal  of  Scots  fir  had  been  used,  but  he  never 
found  one  inch  either  rotten  or  worm-eaten,  where  it  was  in  the 
least  connected  with  lime,  and  kept  dry;  on  the  contrary,  he 
found  it  more  hard  and  firm  than  when  first  used. 


BUILDING. 

1142.  Artificial  Stone  Floors  and  Coverings  for  Houses^  as 
made  in  some  parts  of  Russia, — The  floors  and  coverings  of 
houses,  in  some  parts  of  South  Russia,  are  made  in  the  follow- 
ing manner  : — For  a  floor,  let  the  ground  be  made  even,  and 
some  stones  of  any  shape  be  put  on,  and,  with  a  heavy  wooden 
rammer,  force  or  beat  the  stones  into  the  ground,  continuing 
to  beat  the  floor  till  it  become  quite  even,  and  incapable  of 
receiving  any  farther  impression.  Then  run  lime,  immediately 
after  it  has  been  slaked,  through  a  fine  sieve,  as  expeditiously 


BUILDING,    ETC.  311 

as  possible,  because  exposure  to  the  air  weakens  the  lime.    Mix 
two  parts  of  coarse  sand,  or  washed  gravel,  (for  there  must  be 
no  earth  in  it,)   with  one  part  of  lime-powder,  and  wet  them 
with  bullocks'  blood ;   so  little  moist,  however,   as  merely  to 
prevent  the  lime  from  blowing  away  in  powder ;  in  short,  the 
less  moist,  the  better.     Spread  it  on  the  floor,  and,  without  a 
moment's  loss  of  time,  let  several  men  be  ready,  with  large 
beetles,  to  beat  the  mixture,  which  will  become  more  and  more 
moist  by  the  excessive  beating  requisite.     Then  put  on  it  some 
of  the  dry  sand  and  lime,  mixed,  and  beat  it  till  like  a  stone. 
If  required  to  be  very  fine,  take  for  the  next  layer  finely-sifted 
lime,  with  about  a  tenth  part  of  rye-flour,  and  a  little  ox-blood  ; 
beat  it  till  it  becomes  a  very  stifl"  mortar,  and  then  smooth  it 
with  a  trowel.     The  next  day,  again  smooth  it  with  a  trowel ; 
and  so  continue  to  do,  daily,  till  it  be  entirely  dry.     When 
it  is  quite  dry  and  hard,  rub  it  over  with  fresh  ox-blood,  taking 
off*  all  which  it  will  not  imbibe.     No  wet  vvill  penetrate  this 
composition,  which,  hov/ever,  after  some  time,  is  often  painted 
with  oil-colors.     The  whole  floor  appears  as  a  single  stone,  and 
nothing  will  aflfect  it.     The  drier  it  is  used,  the  better,  provided 
that,  with  much  beating,   it  becomes  like  a  very  stiff"  mortar, 
and  evidently  forms  a  compact  body.     On  flat  tops  of  houses, 
the  beetle,  or  rammers'  ends,  must  be  smaller,  to  prevent  the 
rebounding  of  the  boards  and  timber,  which  would  crack  the 
cement;  but,  when  the  thickness  of  afoot  is  laid  on,  it  will 
beat  more  firmly.     A  thin  coating  of  ox-blood,  flour,  and  lime, 
being  beat  in  large,  strong,  wooden  troughs,  or  mortar,  till  it 
can  be  spread  with  a  trowel,  may  be  used  without  beating  it 
again  on  the  floor  or  house-top ;    but  it  nmst  be  very  stiffj  and 
used  most  expeditiously.     Even  frost  will  not  affect  it.     With 
this  composition,  artificial  stone  may  be  made,   rammed  very 
hard  into  strong  wooden  frames  of  the  required  shape ;  particu- 
larly to  turn  arches  for  buildings  of  rammed  earth,     it  is  well 
known,  that  earth  which  is  not  too  argillaceous,  with  only  the 
moisture  it  has  when  fresh  dug,   on  being  rammed   between 
frames  of  wood,   till   the  rammer  will  no  longer  impress  it, 
makes  eternal  walls ;  but  a  mass  as  hard  as  stone  may  be  made 
with  a  little  linie  added  to  sand,   horse-dung,  and   ox-blood. 
The  more  the  lime  is  beaten,  the  moister  it  becomes ;   and  it 
must  contain  so  much  moisture   as  to  become,   by  beating,  a 
solid  mass,  adhering  in  all  its  parts,  and  not  remain  crumbling, 
that  will  properly  set  as  mortar,     if  there  be  too  little  moisture 


312  MRS.  u ale's  receii'ts  for  the  million. 

at  first,  it  will  remain  a  powder  ;  if  there  be  too  much,  it  will 
become  a  soft  mortar.  Lime  is  of  no  use,  mixed  with  clay  or 
vegetable  earths ;  which,  if  well  beaten,  are  stronger  without  it. 


1143.  To  cure  Damp  Walls. — Boil  two  quarts  of  tar,  with 
two  ounces  of  kitchen-grease,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  in  an 
iron  pot.  Add  some  of  this  tar  to  a  mixture  of  slaked  lime 
and  powdered  glass,  which  have  passed  through  a  flour-sieve, 
and  been  completely  dried  over  the  fire  in  an  iron  pot,  in  tho 
proportion  of  two  parts  of  lime  and  one  of  ghiss,  till  the  mix- 
ture becomes  of  the  consistence  of  thin  plaster.  The  cement 
must  be  used  immediately  after  being  mixed,  and  therefore  it 
is  proper  not  to  mix  more  of  it  than  will  coat  one  square  foot 
of  wall,  since  it  quickly  becomes  too  hard  for  use ;  and  care 
must  be  taken  to  prevent  any  moisture  from  mixing  with  the 
cement.  For  a  wall  merely  damp,  a  coating  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick  is  sufHcient;  but  if  the  wall  is  wet,  there  must  be  a 
second  coat.  Plaster  made  of  lime,  hair,  and  plaster  of  Paris, 
may  afterwards  be  laid  on  as  a  cement.  The  cement  abovo 
described  will  unite  the  parts  of  Portland  stone  or  marble,  so 
as  to  make  them  as  durable  as  they  were  prior  to  the  fracture. 


1144.  To  increase  the  Darahility  of  Tiles  for  covering  Biuld- 
ings, — The  following  composition  has  been  found  to  be  of 
extraordinary  durability,  as  a  glazing  or  varnish  for  tiles.  No 
sort  of  weather,  even  for  a  considerable  length  of  time,  has  had 
any  effect  upon  it.  It  prevents  that  absorption  of  water,  by 
which  common  tiles  are  rendered  liable  to  crumble  into  dust, 
hinders  the  shivering  of  tiles,  and  gives  to  red  bricks  a  soft 
lustre,  by  which  their  appearance  is  much  improved. 

Over  a  weak  fire  heat  a  bottle  of  linseed  oil,  w^ith  an  ounco 
of  litharge,  and  a  small  portion  of  minium,  till  such  time  as  a 
feather,  used  in  stirring  it,  shall  be  burnt  to  the  degree  of  being 
easily  rubbed  to  powder  between  the  fingers.  Then  take  ofl* 
the  varnish,  let  it  cool,  clarify  it  Irom  any  impurities  which 
may  have  fallen  to  the  bottom,  and  heat  it  again.  Having, 
in  the  mean  time,  melted  from  three  to  four  ounces  of  pitch, 
mix  this  with  the  warm  varnish.  The  specific  gravity  of  the 
pitch  hinders  it  from  mingling  thoroughly  wifh  the  varnish, 
though  it  even  remain  so  long  upon  the  fire  as  to  be  cvapo 
rated  to  considerable  thickness.  It  is  not  till  the  varnish  bo 
cooled,  nearly  to  the  consistency  of  common  syrup,  that  this 


BUILDING,    ETC*  813 

effect  lakes  place  in  the  requisite  degree.  If  it  be  too  thick, 
let  hot  varnish  be  added,  to  bring  it  to  the  proper  consistency ; 
if  it  be  too  thin,  add  melted  pitch.  Next,  put  in  as  much  brick- 
dust  as  the  mixture  can  receive,  without  being  made  too  thick 
for  convenient  use.  The  finer  the  brick-dust,  and  the  easier 
it  is  to  be  moved  with  the  point  of  a  pencil,  so  much  the  fitter 
will  it  be  to  fill  up  the  chinks  and  unevenness  of  the  bricks, 
and,  as  it  were,  to  incorporate  itself  with  their  substance.  Pre- 
pare the  brick-dust  in  the  following  manner : — Take  a  certain 
number  of  pieces  of  good  brick,  beat  them  into  dust,  and  sift 
the  dust  in  a  hair-sieve.  Then,  to  improve  its  fineness,  rub  it 
on  a  stone  with  water,  dry  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  varnish  in 
the  necessary  proportion.  If  the  brick-dust  be  naturally  of  too 
dark  a  color,  a  portion  of  some  that  is  brighter  may  be  added, 
to  make  the  color  clear. 

It  is  to  be  laid  on  the  tiles  in  the  same  manner  in  which 
oil-colors  in  general  are  put  upon  the  substances  on  which  they 
are  applied.  The  composition  must  be  heated  from  time  to 
time,  when  it  is  to  be  used. 


^1 


1145.  Economical  Method  of  employing  Tiles  for  the  Roofs 
of  Houses. — A  French  architect  (M.  Castala)  has  invented  a 
new  method  of  employing  tiles  for  the  roofs  of  houses,  so  as  to 
save  one  half  of  the  quantity  usually  employed  for  that  pur- 
pose. The  tiles  are  made  of  a  square  instead  of  an  oblong 
form  ;  and  the  hook  that  fastens  them  is  at  one  of  the  angles, 
BO  that,  when  fastened  to  the  laths,  they  hang  down  diagonally^ 
and  every  tile  is  covered  one-fifth  part  on  two  sides  by  the  su- 
perior row. 


1146.  To  improve  Chimney  Fire-places^  and  increase  the  Ileat^ 
hy  a  proper  attention  to  the  Setting  of  Stoves^  Grates^  dx, — The 
best  materials  for  setting  stoves  or  grates  are  fire-stone  and 
common  bricks  and  mortar.  Both  materials  are  fortunately 
very  cheap.  When  bricks  are  used,  they  should  be  covered 
with  a  thin  coating  of  plaster,  which,  when  it  is  dry,  should  bo 
white-washed.  The  fire-stone  should  likewise  be  white- washed 
wnen  that  is  used;  and  every  part  of  the  fire-place,  which  is  not 
exposed  to  being  soiled  and  made  black  by  the  smoke,  should 
be  kept  as  white  and  clear  as  possible.  As  tvhite  reficcts  more 
heat,  as  well  as  more  light,  than  any  other  color,  it  ought 
always  to  be  preferred  for  the  inside  of  a  chiuiuey  fire-place; 


314  MRS.    HALK'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THB    MILLION. 

and  blacky  which  reflects  neither  light  nor  heat,  should  be  more 
avoided. 


1147.  To  cure  Smoky  Chimneys. — Put  on  the  top  of  the 
chimney  a  box,  in  each  of  whose  sides  is  a  door  hanging  on 
hinges,  and  kept  open  by  a  thin  iron  rod  running  from  one  to 
the  other,  and  fastened  by  a  ring  in  each  end  to  a  staple.  When 
there  is  no  wind,  these  doors  are  at  rest,  and  each  forms  an 
angle  of  45  degrees,  which  is  decreased  on  the  windward  side 
in  proportion  to  the  force  of  the  wind,  and  increased  in  the 
same  ratio  on  the  leeward  side.  If  the  wind  be  very  strong, 
the  door  opposed  to  the  wind  becomes  close,  while  the  opposite 
one  is  opened  as  wide  as  it  can  be.  If  the  wind  strikes  the 
corner  of  the  box,  it  shuts  two  doors  and  opens  their  opposites. 
This  scheme  has  been  tried  with  success  in  a  chimney  which 
always  filled  the  room  with  smoke,  but  which,  since  adopted, 
has  never  smoked  the  room  at  all.  The  expense  is  trifling,  and 
the  apparatus  simple. 

1148.  A  Preparation  to  preserve  Wood  from  catching  Fire^ 
and  to  preserve  it  from  Decay, — A  member  of  the  Royal  Acad- 
emy at  Stockholm  says,  in  the  memoirs  of  that  academy, 
''  Having  been  within  these  few  years  to  visit  the  alum  mines 
of  Loswers,  in  the  province  of  Calmar,  I  took  notice  of  some 
attempts  made  to  burn  the  old  staves  of  tubs  and  pails  that 
had  been  used  for  the  alum  works.  For  this  purpose  they  were 
thrown  into  the  furnace,  but  those  pieces  of  wood  which  had 
been  penetrated  by  the  alum  did  not  burn,  though  they  re- 
mained for  a  long  time  in  the  fire,  where  they  only  became  red ; 
however,  at  last  they  were  consumed  by  the  intenseness  of  the 
heat,  but  they  emitted  no  flame." 

He  concludes,  from  this  experiment,  that  wood,  or  timber, 
for  the  purpose  of  building,  may  be  secured  against  the  action 
of  fire,  by  letting  it  remain  for  some  time  in  water,  wherein 
vitriol,  alum,  or  any  other  salt  has  been  dissolved,  which  con- 
tains no  inflammable  parts. 

To  this  experiment  it  may  be  added^  that  wood,  which  has 
been  impregnated  with  water,  wherein  vitriol  has  been  dis- 
solved, is  very  fit  for  resisting  putrefaction,  especially  if  after- 
wards  it  is  brushed  over  with  tar,  or  some  kind  of  paint ;  in 
order  to  this,  the  wood  must  be  rubbed  with  very  warm  vitriol 
water,  and  afterwards  left  to  dry,  before  it  is  painted  or  tarred. 


BUILDING,    ETC.  315 

Wood  prepared  in  this  manner  will  for  a  long  time  resist  the 
injuries  of  the  air,  and  be  preserved  in  cellars  and  other  low 
moist  places.  It  is  to  be  observed,  that  if  a  solution  of  vit- 
riol is  poured  on  such  parts  of  timber  where  a  sort  of  champig- 
nons are  formed  by  moisture,  and  rubbed  off,  none  will  ever 
grow  there  again. 

By  boiling,  for  some  hours,  the  spokes  of  wheels  in  vitriol 
w^ater,  they  are  not  subject  to  rottenness  in  the  parts  where 
they  enter  the  stocks.  After  boiling  them  in  this  manner,  they 
are  dried  as  perfectly  as  possible,  and  then,  in  the  accustomed 
way,  painted  with  oil  color. 

1149.  Cheap  and  excellent  Composition  for  preserving  Weather 
Boaiding^  Paling^  and  all  other  Works  liable  to  be  injured  by  the 

Weather, — Well  burnt  lime  will  soon  become  slaked  by  expo- 
sure in  the  open  air,  or  even  if  confined  in  a  situation  not  re- 
markably dry,  so  as  to  crumble  of  itself  into  powder.  This  is 
called  air-slaked  lime,  in  contradistinction  to  that  which  is  slaked 
in  the  usual  way,  by  being  mixed  with  water.  For  the  purpose 
of  making  the  present  composition  to  preserve  all  sorts  of  wood- 
work exposed  to  the  vicissitudes  of  the  weather,  take  three 
parts  of  this  air-slaked  lime,  two  of  wood-ashes,  and  one  of  fine 
sand ;  pass  them  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  as  much  linseed- 
oil  to  the  composition  as  will  bring  it  to  a  proper  consistence 
for  working  with  a  painter's  brush.  As  particular  care  must 
be  taken  to  mix  it  perfectly,  it  should  be  ground  on  a  stone 
slab  with  a  proper  muller,  in  the  same  manner  as  painters 
grind  their  white-lead,  &;c. ;  but  where  these  conveniences  are 
not  at  hand,  the  ingredients  may  be  mixed  in  a  large  pan,  and 
well  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spatula.  Two  coats  of  this  compo- 
sition being  necessary,  the  first  may  be  rather  thin ;  but  the 
second  should  be  as  thick  as  it  can  conveniently  be  worked. 
This  most  excellent  composition  for  preserving  wood,  when  ex- 
posed to  the  injuries  of  the  weather,  is  highly  preferable  to  the 
customary  method  of  laying  on  tar  and  ochre. 

1150.  To  make  durable  Barn-Jloors, — A  durable  barn-floor 
may  be  made  of  well-burnt  polished  brick  on  edge,  placed  in 
the  herring-bone  form,  on  a  pavement  of  stone  three  inches  and 
a  half  in  thickness ;  or  oaken  plank  two  inches  and  a  half  in 
thickness  ;  or  even  of  well-tempered  indurated  loam,  of  a  pro- 
per substance,  not  less  than  eight  inches,  and  laid  upon  dry 


816  MRS,  bale's  receipts  for  tue  million. 

materials  or  bottom.  Any  of  them  will  make  a  durable  barn- 
floor,  provided  it  is  kept  free  from  wet,  wagon-wheels,  and 
horses' feet.  The  best  threshing-floor  for  small  farms  of  150 
acres  is  made  of  sound  plank.  In  large  farms  (say  300  acres 
and  upwards)  the  threshing  machine  should  supersede  the  flail. 

1151.  The  Virtues  of  Poplar  Wood  for  the  Flooring  of  Grana- 
ries.— The  Lombard  poplar  is  recommended  as  a  timber  adapted 
for  flooring  granaries,  which  is  said  to  prevent  the  destruction 
of  corn  by  weevils  and  insects.  Poplar  wood  will  not  easily 
take  fire. 


1152.  Improved  Ventilators  for  Rooms, — Different  methods 
are  adopted  for  ventilating,  or  changing  the  air  of  rooms. — 
Thus: 

Mr.  Tid  admitted  fresh  air  into  a  room  by  taking  out  the 
middle  upper  sash  pane  of  glass,  and  fixing  in  its  place  a  frame 
box,  with  a  round  hole  in  its  middle,  about  six  or  seven  inches 
diameter,  in  which  hole  is  fixed,  behind  each  other,  a  set  of 
sails,  of  very  thin,  broad  copper  plates,  which  spread  over  and 
cover  the  circular  hole,  so  as  to  make  the  air,  which  enters  tho 
room,  and  turning  round  these  sails,  to  spread  round  in  thin 
sheets  sideway,  and  so  not  to  incommode  persons  by  blowing 
directly  upon  them,  as  it  would  do  if  it  were  not  hindered  by 
the  sails.  This  well-known  contrivance  has  generally  been  em- 
ployed in  public  buildings,  but  is  very  disagreeable  in  good 
rooms ;  instead,  of  it,  therefore,  the  late  Mr.  Whitehurst  sub- 
stituted another,  which  was,  to  open  a  small  square  or  rectan- 
gular hole,  in  the  party  wall  of  the  room,  in  the  upper  part, 
near  the  ceiling,  at  a  corner  or  part  distant  from  the  fire ;  be- 
fore it  he  placed  a  thin  piece  of  metal,  or  pasteboard,  &;c., 
attached  to  the  wall  in  its  lower  part,  just  before  the  hole,  but 
declining  from  it  upwards,  so  as  to  give  the  air  that  enters  by 
the  hole  a  direction  upwards  against  the  ceiling,  along  which  it 
sweeps,  and  disperses  itself  through  the  room,  without  blowing 
in  a  current  against  any  person.  This  method  is  very  useful  to 
cure  smoky  chimneys,  by  thus  admitting,  conveniently,  fresh 
air.  A  picture,  placed  before  the  hole,  prevents  the  sight  of  it 
from  disfiguring  the  room. 

1153.  Approved  Method  of  removing  Bees. — Set  the  hive 
where  there  is  only  a  glimmering  light;  turn  it  up;  the  c^ueen 


BEES,    BIRDS,    ETC  31 Y 

first  makes  her  appearance ;  once  in  possession  of  her,  you  are 
master  of  all  the  rest;  put  her  into  an  empty  hive,  whither  she 
will  be  followed  by  the  other  bees. 

1154.  Useful  Method  of  preserving  ^^^5.— Instead  of  destroy- 
ing whole  swarms  in  their  hives,  to  get  the  honey  when  the 
hives  are  full,  they  clear  them  out  into  a  fresh  hive,  while  they 
take  the  combs  out  of  the  old  one ;  and  they  prevent  their  per- 
ishing in  winter  by  putting  a  great  quantity  of  honey  into  a 
very  wide  earthen  vessel,  covering  its  surface  with  paper,  exactly 
fitted  on,  and  pricked  full  of  holes  with  a  large  pin  ;  this  being 
pressed  by  the  weight  of  the  bees,  keeps  a  fresh  supply  continu- 
ally arising.  Their  most  fatal  destruction  by  severe  cold  they 
prevent,  by  taking  as  many  large  tubs  as  they  have  hives,  and 
knocking  out  the  heads,  they  set  the  other  end  in  the  ground, 
laying  a  bed  of  dry  earth  or  chopped  hay  in  it,  of  six  inches 
deep ;  over  this  they  place  the  head  knocked  out,  and  then 
make  a  small  wooden  trough  for  the  passage  of  the  bees  ;  this 
is  transfixed  through  a  hole  cut  through  each  side  of  the  tub,  at 
such  a  height  as  to  lay  on  the  false  bottom,  on  which  is  placed 
the  covered  dish  of  honey  for  the  food  of  the  bees,  leaving  a 
proper  space  over  this,  covered  with  strong  matting ;  they  then 
fill  up  the  tub  with  more  dry  earth,  or  chopped  hay,  heaping  it 
up  in  the  form  of  a  cone,  to  keep  out  the  rain,  and  wreathing  it 
over  with  straw  on  account  of  the  w^armth. 


1155.  Sir  Ashton  Lever'' s  method  of  preserving  Birds,  Beasts^ 
Fishes^  dc, — Beasts.  Large  beasts  should  be  carefully  skinned, 
with  the  horns,  skull,  jaws,  tail,  and  feet,  left  entire ;  the  skins 
may  then  either  be  put  into  a  vessel  of  spirit,  or  else  rubbed 
well  in  the  inside  with  the  mixture  of  salt,  alum,  and  pepper, 
hereafter  mentioned,  and  hung  to  dry.  Small  beasts  may  be 
put  into  a  cask  of  rum,  or  any  other  spirit. 

Birds.  Large  birds  may  be  treated  as  large  beasts,  but  must 
not  be  put  in  spirits.  Small  birds  may  be  preserved  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner : — Take  out  the  entrails,  open  a  passage  to  the 
brain,  which  should  be  scooped  out  through  the  mouth;  intro- 
duce into  the  cavities  of  the  skull,  and  the  whole  body,  some 
of  the  mixture  of  salt,  alum,  and  pepper,  putting  some  through 
the  gullet  and  whole  length  of  the  neck  ;  then  hang  the  bird  in 
a  cool,  airy  place — first  by  the  feet,  that  the  body  may  be  im* 
pregnated  by  the  salts,  and  afterwards  by  a  thread  through  the 


318  MRS.  halb's  receipts  for  the  million. 

under  mandible  of  the  bill,  till  it  appears  to  be  sweet ;  then 
hang  it  in  the  sun,  or  near  a  fire :  after  it  is  well  dried,  clean 
out  what  remains  loose  of  the  mixture,  and  fill  the  cavity  of 
the  body  with  wool,  oakum,  or  any  soft  substance,  and  pack  it 
smooth  in  paper. 

Fishes,  &c.  Large  fishes  should  be  opened  in  the  belly,  the 
entrails  taken  out,  and  the  inside  well  rubbed  with  pepper, 
and  stuffed  with  oakum.  Small  fishes  put  in  spirit,  as  w^ell  as 
reptiles  and  insects,  except  butterflies  and  moths ;  and  any  in- 
sects of  fine  colors,  should  be  pinned  down  in  a  box  prepared 
for  that  purpose,  with  their  wings  expanded. 

1156.  Birds  that  have  been  Shot, — When  fresh-killed,  observe 
to  put  tow  into  the  mouth,  and  upon  any  wound  they  may 
have  received,  to  prevent  the  feathers  being  soiled ;  and  then 
wrap  it  smooth,  at  full-length,  in  paper,  and  pack  it  close  in  a 
box.  if  it  be  sent  from  a  great  distance,  the  entrails  should  be 
extracted,  and  the  cavity  filled  with  tow  dipped  in  rum  or  other 
spirit.  The  following  mixture  is  proper  for  the  preservation 
of  animals : — One  pound  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  alum,  and  two 
ounces  of  pepper,  powdered  together. 


1157.  To  preserve  Game  in  Hot  Weather. — Game  or  poultry 
may  be  preserved  for  a  long  time,  by  tying  a  string  tight  round 
the  neck,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air,  and  by  putting  a  piece  of 
charcoal  into  the  vent. 


1158.  Jlussian  method  of  preserving  Fi^h, — When  the  Rus- 
sians desire  to  keep  fish  perfectly  fresh,  to  be  carried  a  long 
journey  in  a  hot  climate,  they  dip  them  into  hot  bees'-wax, 
which  acts  like  an  air-tight  covering.  In  this  way  they  are 
taken  to  Malta,  even  sweet  in  summer. 


PART  VII. 

MANY  THINGS. 

Choice  and  Cheap  Cookery — JVew  Receipts — Southern  Dishes-^ 
Gumbo,  (kc. — Home-made  WineSy  dc. —  Dairy — Coloring — 
Di^t — Healthy  dc, 

1159.  To  preserve  Ginger, — Take  green  ginger,  pare  it  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  then  throw  it  into  cold  water  as  pared,  to 
keep  it  white ;  then  boil  it  till  tender,  in  three  waters,  at  each 
change  putting  the  ginger  into  cold  water.  For  seven  pounds 
of  ginger,  clarify  eight  pounds  of  refined  sugar ;  when  cold, 
drain  the  ginger,  and  put  it  into  a  pan,  with  enough  of  the  syrup 
to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  two  days ;  then  pour  the  syrup  to 
the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  boil  it  some  time;  when  cold, 
pour  it  on  the  ginger  again,  and  set  it  by  for  three  days ;  then 
boil  the  syrup  again,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  ginger.  Proceed 
thus  till  you  find  the  ginger  rich  and  tender,  and  the  syrup  is 
highly  flavored.  If  you  put  the  syrup  on  hot  at  first,  or  if  too 
rich,  the  ginger  will  shrink,  and  not  take  the  sugar. 

1160.  Orange  Syrup — Is  so  easily  made,  and  can  be  used  so 
constantly  with  advantage,  that  no  housekeeper  should  be  with- 
out it.  Select  ripe  and  thin-skinned  fruit ;  squeeze  the  juice 
through  a  sieve ;  to  every  pint,  add  a  pound  a  half  of  powdered 
sugar ;  boil  it  slowly,  and  skim  as  long  as  any  scum  rises ;  you 
may  then  take  it  off,  let  it  grow  cold,  and  bottle  it  off.  Be 
sure  to  secure  the  corks  well.  Two  table-spoonfuls  of  this  syrup, 
mixed  in  melted  butter,  make  an  admirable  sauce  for  a  plum 
or  butter-pudding ;  and  it  imparts  a  fine  flavor  to  custards. 

IIGI.  Apple  or  Quince  Jelly, — Pare,  quarter,  and  core  the 
npples ;  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  enough  water  to  cover 


320  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

them  only ;  let  them  boil  five  minutes ;  put  them  in  a  bag,  and 
let  them  drain  until  the  next  day.     To  one  pint  of  juice,  put 
one  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  it  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
[^Cranberry  Jelly  may  he  made  in  the  same  way,'\ 

1162.  Brandy  Cherries, — Take  the  nicest  carnation  cher- 
ries, and  trim  them,  leaving  a  short  stem  to  keep  in  the  juice ; 
wash  and  wipe  them  tenderly,  and  put  them  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles.  Make  a  good  syrup,  and,  when  it  is  nearly  done,  add 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  French  brandy  to  one  pint  of  syrup  ;  mix  it 
thoroughly,  and,  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  cherries.  If  care- 
fully sealed,  the  fruit  will  be  good  for  years. 


1163.  Brandy  Peaches. — Drop  the  peaches  in  weak,  boiling 
lye ;  let  them  remain  till  the  skin  can  be  wiped  off;  make  a 
thin  syrup,  and  let  it  cover  the  fruit ;  boil  the  fruit  till  they  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw ;  take  it  out ;  make  a  very  rich  syrup, 
and  add,  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  and  while  it  is  still  hot, 
an  equal  quantity  of  brandy.  Pour  this,  while  it  is  still  warm, 
over  the  peaches  in  the  jar.    They  must  be  covered  with  it. 


1164.  Brandied  Peaches — an  excellent  way, — After  having 
removed  the  skin  in  the  usual  manner,  by  using  lye^  and  throw- 
ing them  in  cold  water,  weigh  the  peaches,  and  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar — allowing  room  at  the  top  for  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  peaches;  then  pour  over 
enough  white  brandy  to  cover  the  fruit.  Set  the  jar  in  a  pot  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  remain  over  the  fire  till  the  brandy  comes 
to  a  scald.  When  they  are  cold,  they  may  either  be  put  in 
glass  jars,  and  tied  down  with  bladder,  or  left  in  the  same  jar. 


1165.  Tomato  C7a<cAe*j9.— To  one  gallon  of  skinned  tomatoes, 
add  four  table-spoonfuls  of  salt ;  four  table-spoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  ground  fine ;  half  a  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  ground 
fine ;  three  table-spoonfuls  of  mustard ;  eight  pods  of  red  pep- 
per. Simmer  it  slowly  in  sharp  vinegar,  in  a  pewter  vessel, 
three  or  four  hours ;  then  strain  it  through  a  wire-sieve,  and 
bottle  it  up.  When  cold,  seal  up  the  corks,  and  it  will  last  for 
years. 

1166.  Green  Tomato  Pickle. — Cut  in  thin  slices  one  peck  of 
green  tomatoes ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  a 


NEW    EECEIPTS    IN    COOKERY.  321 

day  or  two.  Slice  ten  or  twelve  small  onions.  Mix  together 
one  bottle  or  small  tin  box  of  nmstard ;  half  an  ounce  of  mus- 
tard-seed ;  one  ounce  of  cloves ;  one  ounce  of  pimento ;  two 
ounces  of  turmeric.  Put  in  the  kettle  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  then 
one  of  onions  and  spice,  till  all  are  in.  Cover  it  with  good 
vinegar,  and  let  it  simmer  till  .the  tomatoes  are  quite  clear. 

1167.  French  Mustard, — Put  on  a  plate,  one  ounce  of  the 
best  powdered  mustard  ;  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt ;  a  few  leaves 
of  tarragon  ;  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  minced  fine.  Pour  on  it,  by 
degrees,  sufficient  vinegar  to  dilute  it  to  the  proper  consistency ; 
about  a  wine-glassful ;  mix  it  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Do  not 
use  it  in  less  than  twenty-four  hours, 

1168.  India  Pickle,  {K  B,) — Put  two  hundred  gherkins, 
three  pints  of  small  onions,  one  quart  of  nasturtiums,  one  quart 
of  radish-pods,  1  quartern  of  string-beans,  six  cauliflowers,  and 
two  hard,  white  cabbages,  sliced,  into  a  pan,  and  sprinkle  them 
with  salt — the  onions  having  been  previously  peeled,  and  laid 
in  salt  and  water  for  a  week,  to  take  off  their  strength.  Then, 
after  a  day  or  two,  take  them  out  of  the  pan,  and  dry  them 
thoroughly  in  a  warm  place,  in  the  shade :  they  must  be  spread 
out  separately.  To  two  gallons  of  vinegar,  put  one  ounce  and 
a  half  of  allspice,  the  same  of  long  pepper  and  of  white,  and 
two  ounces  of  ginger,  tied  up  in  muslin  bags.  When  cold,  mix 
with  the  vinegar  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour  of  mustard,  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  Cayenne  pepper.  Boil  it  well  together, 
and  pour  it  on  the  pickle.  The  vegetables  mentioned,  not  be- 
ing all  procurable  at  the  same  time,  may  be  added  separately, 
at  different  periods,  but  they  must  all  undergo  the  salting  and 
drying  process. 

In  choosing  those  vegetables,  some  discrimination  may  also 
be  used.  When  in  season,  few  things  add  a  higher  flavor  to 
the  pickle  than  the  buds  and  flowers  of  the  elder. 


1169.  Horse-radish. — Let  the  horse-radish  lie  one  or  two 
hours  in  cold  water ;  then  scrape  off  the  skin,  grate  it,  and 
moisten  it  with  vinegar.     Serve  it  with  roast  meat. 

1170.  Oyster  Gumho. — Mix  well  one  table-spooriful  of  flour 
and  one  of  lard,  and  browi  the  mixture  ill  a  frying-pan  ;  take 
the  liquor  of  two  quarts  of  oysters,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when 

21 


822  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  millioj^ 

it  boils,  add  the  browned  flour  with  some  chopped  leeks  and  pars- 
ley  ;  then  put  in  the  oysters,  and  let  the  whole  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes  ;  next  sift  into  it  a  table-spoonful  and  a  half  of  powdered 
sassafras,  to  give  it  the  fillet ;  leave  it  two  or  three  minutes  longer 
on  the  fire,  and  serve  it  very  hot.  No  spices,  but  black  pep- 
per. This  dish  will  require  more  or  less  time  to  prepare,  ac- 
cording to  the  ingredients  of  which  it  is  to  be  composed.  Por 
chicken  or  turkey  gumbo,  the  fowl  must  first  be  fricasseed. 
Any  good  cook  will  understand  how  to  make  a  piquante  and  pal- 
atable stock,  of  whatever  she  may  select  for  her  gumbo. 


1171.  Mayonnaise. — Roast  a  pair  of  chickens  or  a  turkey,  in 
the  morning,  and  put  them  away  to  settle  the  juices.  Imme- 
diately before  serving  the  dish,  carve  the  fowls,  and  put  them 
compactly  into  a  dish;  take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  pour,  in 
a  very  fine  and  continued  stream  upon  them,  half  a  bottle  of 
Olive  oil,  and  stir  the  eggs  one  way,  till  they  are  creamed ;  then 
put  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  vinegar  into  this  dressing,  and  having 
put  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  vinegar  on  the  fowl,  pour  the 
dressing  over  it,  and  arrange  all  over  it  bunches  of  cool,  fresh 
lettuce.     Garnish  with  hard  eggs. 


1172.  Jamhalaya — Cut  up,  and  stew  till  half  done,  a  fowl, 
brown  or  white ;  then  add  rice,  and  a  piece  of  ham  well  minced ; 
this  must  be  left  on  the  fi-re  till  the  rice  has  taken  up  the  liquid ; 
the  roundness  of  the  grain  must"  be  preserved,  yet  the  dish  must 
not  be  hard  and  dry.  It  is  served  in  a  heap,  on  a  flat  dish. 
Pepper  and  salt  the  only  seasoning. 

Southern  children  are  very  fond  of  this  essentially  home-dish. 
It  is  said  to  be  of  Indian  origin.  V/holesome  as  it  is  palatable, 
it  makes  part  of  almost  every  Creole  dinner. 


1173.  Imitation  of  Mock  Turtle, — Put  into  a  pan  a  knuckle 
of  veal,  two  fine  cow-heels  or  two  calf's  feet,  two  onions,  a  few 
cloves,  peppers,  berries  of  allspice,  mace,  and  sweet  herbs  ;  cover 
them  with  water,  then  tie  a  thick  paper  over  the  pan,  and  set 
it  in  an  oven  for  three  hours.  V/hen  cold,  take  off  the  fat  very 
nicely ;  cut  the  meat  and  feet  into  bits  an  inch  and  a  half 
square  ;  remove  the  bones  and  coarse  parts,  and  then  put  the  rest 
on  to  warm,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  walnut  and  one  of  mush- 
room catchup,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  4'  Madeira  wine,  a  little 
mushroom-powder,  and  the  jelly  of  the  meat.     When  hot,  if  it 


NEW    RECEIPTS    IN    COOKERY.  '  323 

wants  any  more  seasoning,  add  some;  and  serve  with  hard 
eggs,  forcemeat  balls,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  spoonful  of 
soy.     This  is  a  verjr  easy  way,  and  the  dish  is  excellent. 


1174.  Oyster  Sausages. — Beard,  ringe  well  in  their  strained 
liquor,  and  mince,  but  not  -finely,  three  dozen  and  a  half  of 
plump  oysters,  and  mix  them  with  ten  ounces  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs, and  ten  of  beef-suet  chopped  extremely  small ;  add  a 
salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  pepper,  or  less  than  half  the 
quantity  of  cayenne,  twice  as  much  pounded  mace,  and  the  third 
of  a  small  nutmeg  grated;  moisten  the  whole  with  two  unbeaten 
eggs,  or  with  the  yolks  only  of  three,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
the  whites.  When  these  ingredients  have  been  well  worked  to- 
gether, and  are  perfectly  blended,  set  the  mixture  in  a  cool  place 
for  two  or  three  hours  before  it  is  used ;  make  it  into  the  form 
of  sn:»all  sausages  or  sausage-cakes,  flour  and  fry  them  in  butter, 
of  a  fine  light  brown ;  or  throw  them  into  boiling  water  for 
three  minutes,  drain,  and  let  them  become  cold  ;  dip  them  into 
egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and  broil  them  gently  until  they  are 
lightly  colored.  A  small  bit  should  be  cooked  and  tasted  be- 
fore the  whole  is  put  aside,  that  the  seasoning  may  be  height- 
ened if  required.     The  sausages  thus  made  are  very  good. 

Small  plump  oysters,  three  dozen  and  a  half;  bread-crumbs, 
ten  ounces;  beef  suet,  ten  ounces;  seasoning  of  salt,  cayenne, 
pounded  mace,  and  nutmeg  ;  unbeaten  eggs,  two,  or  yolks  of 
three. 

Obs, — The  fingers  should  be  well  floured  for  making  up  these 
sausa<]res. 


1175.  ]Vew  England  Chowder, — Have  a  good  haddock,  cod, 
or  any  other  solid  fish,  cut  it  in  pieces  three  inches  square,  put 
a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  in  strips  into  the  pot,  set  it  on  hot 
coals,  and  fry  out  the  oil.  Take  out  the  pork,  and  put  in  a 
layer  of  fish,  over  that  a  layer  of  onions  in  slices,  then  a  layer 
offish  with  slips  of  fat  salt  pork,  then  another  layer  of  onions, 
and  so  on  alternately,  until  your  fish  is  consumed.  Mix  some 
flour  with  as  much  water  as  will  fill  the  pot ;  season  with  black 
pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour. 
Have  ready  some  crackers  soaked  in  water  till  they  are  a  little 
softened  ;  throw  them  into  your  chowder  five  minutes  before 
you  take  it  up.     Servo  in  a  tureen. 


324  MRS.    HALE's    Bt:CEIPTS    t'OR    THE    MILLION. 

1176.  Curing  Hams — the  Neivhold  Receipt, — Take  seven 
pounds  coarse  salt,  five  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  pearl 
ash,  4  gallons  of  water.  Boil  all  together,  and  scum  the  pickle 
well  when  cold.  Put  it  on  the  meat.  Hams  remain  in  it  eight 
weeks — beef  three  weeks.  The  above  is  for  one  hundred  and 
ninety  pounds  weight. 


1177.  A  Pickle  that  will  keep  for  years ^  for  hams^  tongues^  or 
heef  if  boiled  and  skimmed  between  each  parcel  of  them, — To  two 
gallons  of  spring  water  put  two  pounds  of  coarse  sugar,  two 
pounds  of  bay  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  common  salt,  and 
half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  in  a  deep  earthen  glazed  pan  that  will 
hold  four  gallons,  and  with  a  cover  that  will  fit  close.  Keep 
the  beef  or  hams  as  long  as  they  will  bear  before  you  put  them 
into  the  pickle ;  and  sprinkle  them  with  coarse  sugar  in  a  pan, 
from  which  they  must  drain.  Rub  the  hams,  &c.,  well  with 
the  pickle,  and  pack  them  in  close,  putting  as  much  as  the  pan 
will  hold,  so  that  the  pickle  may  cover  them.  The  pickle  is 
not  to  be  boiled  at  first.  A  small  ham  may  lie  fourteen  days,  a 
large  one  three  weeks  ;  a  tongue  twelve  days,  and  beef  in  pro- 
portion to  its  size.  They  will  eat  well  out  of  the  pickle  with- 
out drying.  V/hen  they  are  to  be  dried,  let  each  piece  be 
drained  over  the  pan ;  and  when  it  will  drop  no  longer,  take  a 
clean  sponge  and  dry  it  thoroughly.  Six  or  eight  hours  will 
smoke  them,  and  there  should  be  only  a  little  sawdust  and  wet 
straw  burnt  to  do  this;  but  if  put  into  a  baker's  chimney,  sew 
them  in  a  coarse  cloth,  and  hang  them  a  week.  Add  two  pounds 
of  common  salt  and  two  pints  of  water  every  time  you  boil  the 
liquor, 

1 178.  To  smoke  Hams  and  Fish  on  a  small  scale, — Drive  the 
ends  out  of  an  old  hogshead  or  barrel ;  place  this  over  a  heap 
of  sawdust  of  green  hard  wood,  in  which  a  bar  of  red-hot  iron 
is  buried  ;  or  take  corn-cobs,  •  which  make  the  best  smoke ; 
place  them  in  a  clean  iron  kettle,  the  bottom,  of  which  is  cov- 
ered with  burning  coals;  hang  the  hams,  tongues,  fish,  dsc,  on 
sticks  across  the  cask,  and  cover  it,  but  not  closely,  that  the 
cobs  or  sawdust  may  smoulder  slowly,  but  not  burn. 

1179.  Onion  Sauce. — Peel  the  onions,  and  boil  them  tender; 
squeeze  the  water  from  them  ;  chop  them  ;  and  pour  on  them 
butter  that  has  been  carefully  melted,  together  with  a  little 


NEW    RECEIPTS — SAUCES.  325 

good  milk,  instead  of  water.     Boil  it  up  once.     A  turnip  boiled 
with  the  onions,  makes  them  milder. 


1180.  Sauce  Robert — Cut  into  small  dice,  four  or  five  large 
onions,  and  brown  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  three  ounces  of 
butter,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour.  When  of  a  deep  yel* 
low-brown,  pour  to  them  half  a  pint  of  beef  or  of  veal-gravy, 
and  let  them  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes;  skim  the  sauce;  add 
a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and,  at  the  moment  of  serving, 
mix  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  made-mustard. 

Large  onions,  four  or  five  ;  butter,  three  ounces ;  flour,  a  des- 
sert-spoonful;  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Gravy,  half  a  pint:  fif- 
teen minutes.     Mustard,  a  dessert-spoonful. 


1181.  Tomato  Sauce. — Crush  half  a  dozen,  more  or  less,  of 
Very  ripe,  red  tomatoes ;  pick  out  the  seeds,  and  squeeze  the 
water  from  them ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  or  three 
finely-sliced  shalots,  and  a  little  gravy  :  simmer  till  nearly 
dry;  when  add  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce,  and  simmer  twenty- 
minutes  longer ;  then  rub  it  through  a  tammy  into  a  clean 
stew-pan ;  season  with  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  glaze, 
and  lemon-juice;  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  Tarragon 
or  Chili  vinegar  are  sometimes  added ;  and  sliced  onions  may 
be  substituted  for  the  shalots. 


1182.  Brown  Caper  Sauce. — Thicken  half  a  pint  of  good  veal 
or  beef-gravy,  as  directed  for  Sauce-Tournee ;  and  add  to  it 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  capers,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  the 
pickle-liquor,  or  of  Chili  vinegar,  with  some  Cayenne,  if  the 
former  be  used,  and  a  proper  seasoning  of  salt. 

Thickened  veal,  or  beef  gravy,  half  a  pint;  capers,  twf 
table-spoonfuls ;  caper  liquor,  or  Chili  vinegar,  one  dessert 
spoonful. 

— ' —  'jdr 

1183.  Horse-radish  Sauce. — Scrape,  finely,  a  stick  of  horse, 
radish  into  about  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  and  a  gravy-spook 
ful  of  vinegar  ;  simmer,  and  season  with  salt  and  sugar.  Thi« 
sauce  is  eaten  with  hot  roast  beef 


1184.  Sauce  for  cold  Roast  Beef. — Mix  scraped  horse-radish| 
made-mustard,  and  vinegar,  and  sweeten  with  white  sugar. 


826  J^ES.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1185.  Mint  Sauce. — Mix  vinegar  and  brown  sugar,  and  le* 
it  stand  at  least  an  hour ;  then  add  chopped  mint,  and  stir  to 
gether.     It  should  be  very  sweet. 

1186.  Mild  Mustard, — Mustard,  for  instant  use,  should  be 
mixed  with  milk,  to  which  a  spoonful  or  two  of  verj  thin  cream 
may  be  added. 


1187.  Mustard,  the  common  way, — The  great  art  of  mixing 
mustard,  is  to  have  it  perfectly  smooth,  and  of  a  proper  con- 
sistency. The  liquid  with  which  it  is  moistened,  should  be 
added  to  it  in  small  quantities,  and  the  mustard  should  be  well 
rubbed,  and  beaten  with  a  spoon.  Mix  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
Bait  with  two  ounces  of  the  flour  of  mustard,  and  stir  to  them, 
by  degrees,  sufficient  boiling  water  to  reduce  it  to  the  appear- 
ance of  a  thick  batter.  Do  not  put  it  into  the  mustard-glass 
until  cold.  Some  persons  like  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  in 
the  finest  powder,  mixed  with  it.  It  ought  to  be  sufficiently- 
diluted  always  to  drop  easily  from  the  spoon. 


1188.  Parsley  and  Butter. — Scald  a  large  handful  of  parsley 
in  boiling  water  that  has  some  salt  in  it ;  when  tender,  chop  it 
fine,  and  stir  it  into  some  rather  thick  melted  butter.  There 
should  be  sufficient  parsley  to  make  the  sauce  green ;  and  the 
parsley  should  not  be  put  to  the  melted  butter  until  about  to 
be  served,  otherwise  it  will  turn  brown. 


1189.  To  make  Sage  and  Onion  Stuffing,  for  Roast  PorJc^ 
Geese,  Ducks^  dtc, — To  make  this  stuffing,  take  two  middling- 
sized  onions,  peel  them,  and  boil  them  for  about  ten  minutes 
in  plenty  of  water ;  next  take  as  much  dry  sage-leaves,  as,  when 
rubbed  into  powder  and  sifted  through  the  top  of  your  flour- 
dredger,  will  fill  a  table-spoon.  When  the  onion  has  boiled 
about  ten  n^yites,  squeeze  it  dry,  chop  it  fine,  and  mix  it  with 
the  crumblea  sage ;  then  add  to  them  a  tea-cupful  of  stale, 
white  bread-crumbs,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  very 
little  pinch  of  Cayenne,  and  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all 
well  together,  and  it  is  ready. 

— ^--^—  » 

1190.  Sippets  of  Bread,  for  Garnishing. — Cut  the  crumb  of 
A  stale  loaf  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick :  form  them  into 
diamonds  or  half-diamonds,  or  in  any  other  way :  fry  them  in 


CAKES,    BREAD,    ETC.  827 

fresh  butter.     Dry  them  well,  and  place  them  around  the  dish 
to  be  garnished. 

1191.  Seasoning  for  Stuffing. — One  pound  of  salt,  dried  and 
sifted ;  half  an  ounce  of  ground  white  pepper ;  two  ounces  of 
dried  thyme ;  one  ounce  of  dried  marjoram  ;  and  one  ounce  of 
nutmeg.  When  this  seasoning  is  used,  parsley  only  is  required 
to  be  chopped  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  the  stuffing  green. 
The  proportions  are — half  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs;  three 
eggs  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet ;  half  an  ounce  of  seasoning ; 
and  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  grated. 


1192.  White  Bread- Crumbs. — Put  the  crum.b  of  very  white 
bread  into  a  slow  oven  or  screen,  and  let  it  dry  without  color ; 
beat  and  sift  it;  keep  it  in  a  close-covered  pan  in  a  dry,  warm 
place  :  everything  looks  well,  done  with  it.  The  crust  may  be 
dried,  beaten,  and  sifted,  for  frying  and  garnishing. 

When  crumbs  are  not  prepared  till  wanted,  the  bread  is 
never  in  a  proper  condition ;  so  that  the  crumbs  are  not  only 
coarse  and  vulgar,  but  a  sponge  for  fat,  which  shows  bad  taste, 
as  well  as  being  wasteful. 


1193,  Panada — Is  indispensable  in  making  good  farce  of  any- 
kind  ;  it  is  even  better  for  it  than  Naples'  biscuit,  and  is  made 
as  follows : — Steep  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good  stale  bread- 
crumb in  cream  or  stock ;  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce-pan, 
and  work  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  is  as  smooth  and  dry- 
as  a  stiff  paste:  let  it  cool,  and  beat  it  with  a  yolk  or  two, 
according  to  the  quantity,  in  a  mortar :  it  is  then  ready  to  be 
put  into  all  kinds  of  farces. 


CAKES,  BREAD,  PIES,  AND  PUDDINGS. 

1194.  Wine  Crust  for  Calces  or  Pastry — a  foreign  Receijot.^ 
Pour  gradually  to  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  fresh  eggs, 
cleared  from  the  specks,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  light  white  wine 
(Marsala  will  serve  for  the  purpose  well  enough),  stirring  them 
briskly  as  it  is  added  ;  throw  in  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  pounded  sugar;  and  when  this  last  is 
dissolved,  or  nearly  so,  add  the  mixture  to  as  much  flour  aa 
will  be  required  to  form  a  smooth,  firm  paste :  about  three- 


82 S  iCLs.  Sals' 5  ezcsfs^  fc«3  ths  ynirc-y. 

quarter?  of  a  poiinJ  ^iil  re  siinicici::.  uDie-ss  the  eggs  should 
b-e  of  ar?  uiusuil  <:2e.  S:ll  ::  :  ::.  o  ::  it  asunder,  aud  spread 
ere  L:ilf  v.:::i  cic:::  -     '-    :  ■'  -'.z  smaii ;  lay  the  ^.^tiier 

h&lfcf  :be  raste  .  togeiiier  as  iightlj  as 

pos&i:         —    *  :  foid  ihe  two  ends 

over  c  :'  equal  thiokness  ; 

loUit^i;^;:  or  tJir  ice.  touching 

the  {Mtste  ^  ^  .lid  rolling  it  v€ry 

lightly.     Ii  may  oe  used  lar  anj  ^  -  veet  pastry  ;  or  it 

may  be  served  in  the  form  of  cakes,  c  .-.  .  eed  or  plain ;  these 
again  may  be  adapled  to  the  second  course,  by  spreading  the 
imder-sides  of  one  half  with  ridi  preserve,  and  pressing  the  oth- 
«B5  CHI  dbeiiu 


1195.  PiC'Mte  Biscmiis. — ^Work,  very  small,  two  ounces  of 
fresk  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour  ;  reduce  to  the  ^est  powder, 
and  mix,  intimately,  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  very  pure  carbonate 
of  soda  (Howard's  is  the  best),  with  two  ounces  of  sugar ;  min- 
gie  these  thorougUj  with  the  flour,  and  make  up  the  paste  with 
a  lew  spoonluls  of  milk  ;  it  will  require  scarcely  a  quarter  of  a 
pint.  Knead  it  very  smooth,  roll  it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
cat  it  in  rounds  ab<mt  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  small  wine-glass ; 
i6ik  these^out  thin,  prick  them  well,  lay  them  on  lightly-floured 
^ns^  and  bake  them  in  a  gentle  oven  until  they  are  crisp  quite 
through.  As  soon  as  they  are  cold  put  them  into  dry  canis- 
teiSL  The  sugar  can  be  omitted  at  pleasure.  If  thin  cream 
be  vsed  instead  oi  milk,  iu  making  the  paste,  it  will  much 
enridi  the  biscuits ;  but  this  would  often  not  be  &:*Dsidered  an 
improvement,  as  plain  simple  biscuits  are  generally  most  la 
fiivor. 

Carraway  seeds  or  ginger  can  be  added,  to  vary  these  at 
j^fiisore.  The  proportion  of  soda  used  should  be  too  small  to 
be  percq>lible,  even  to  the  taste :  it  will  be  no  disadvantage  to 
use  milk  with  it  which  is  slightly  acid. 

1196.  A  ffood  Soda  Cuke. — Eub  half  a  pound  of  good  butter 
into  a  pound  of  fine  dry  flour,  and  work  it  very  small ;  mix 
w^l  wfth  these  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  p^our  to  them 
first  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  next  three  well- 
whisked  eggs;  add  some  grated  nutmeg,  or  fresh  lemor-  1 
and  e^^  onnees  of  currants;  beat  the  whole  well  and  li. 
together,  and  the  instant  before  the  cake  is  moulded  and  sei 


CAXE&f  rtmnsG^  etc  329 

into  the  oven,  stir  to  it  a  tearspoonfiil  ci  carbooate  ot  ao^  in 
the  finest-  powder.  Bake  it  from  an  boor  to  an  hoor  and  a 
qearter,  or  divide  it  in  two,  and  allow  from  half  to  three-qnar- 
ters  of  an  hoor  ^jt  eadk  eake. 

Floor,  one  poond ;  hotter,  three  ounces  ;  sogar,  eight  oonees, 
milk,  foil  qoarter-pint ;  e^s,  three;  eorrants,  half  a  poond; 
carbonate  of  soda,  me  tearspocsifiil ;  one  hoor  to  one  and  a 
half.  Or,  divided,  a  half  to  tfaree-qoarters  of  an  hoor — ^mode- 
rate oven. 

Obs, — ^Tfais,  if  wdl  made,  resemUes  a  poond-cake,  \mk  is 
moch  more  wholesome.  It  is  verj  good  with  two  oonees  leas 
of  batter,  and  with  carawaj-seeds  or  candied  orange  or  citron 
substitoted  for  the  eorrants. 


1197.  To  make  Fme  Pancaixi,  Fried  miJumt  Buti^  or  Lard. 
— ^Take  a  {^t  of  cream  and  six  new-laid  e^s ;  beat  them  w^ 
t<^ether ;  pot  in  a  qoarter  <^  a  poond  of  sugar  and  one  notmeg 
or  a  little  beaten  mace — ^which  joa  please,  and  so  mnch  as 
will  thick^i — ^almost  as  nmeh  as  ordinaiy  paiieaike  floor  battn*; 
yoor  pan  most  he  heated  reascAablj  hot,  and  wiped  with  a 
clean  doth ;  this  done,  ^^ead  yoor  battel'  thin  over  it^  and  fiy. 

1193.  To  maJce  Loatfts  cf  Ckeete-aarL — Take  a  ponii^er  fbU 
of  cords,  and  four  eggs,  whites  and  jolks,  and  as  much  floor  as 
will  make  it  stifif;  then  take  a  little  gii^er,  notmeg,  and  some 
salt ;  make  them  into  loaves,  and  s^  them  into  an  oven  with  a 
qoick  heat ;  when  the  j  begin  to  change  cc^r,  take  them  oot^ 
and  pot  melted  batter  to  them,  and  some  sack,  and  good  store 
of  sogar  ;  and  so  serve, 

1199.  C%aip  Giager  BiscviU,  —  Work  into  quite  small 
crombs  three  oonees  of  good  batter,  with  two  poonds  of  floor  ; 
then  add  three  oonees  of  poonded  sogar  and  two  of  ginger,  in 
nne  powder,  and  knead  them  into  a  ^ff  paste,  with  new  milk. 
Boll  it  thin,  cot  oot  the  "biscoits  with  a  cotter,  and  bake  them 
in  a  slow  oven  ontil  thej  are  msp  qoite  thioi^^  hot  ke^ 
them  of  a  pale  color.  A  coople  of  f^^  are  sometinies  mixed 
with  the  milk  for  them,  but  are  no  material  improvoBoeiit ;  an 
additional  ounce  of  sugar  may  be  used  when  a  sweeter  hiscoit 
is  liked.  To  make  good  ginger  ool^t,  increase  ihe  boUer  to  six 
ounces,  and  the  sugar  to  eight,  for  e^ch  poond  of  floor,  and  wei 
the  in^^i^its  into  a  paste  with  €ggs^  a  little  lemon-grate  will 
give  it  an  agreeable  flavor. 


330  MR3.    HALE'S    receipts    rOR    THE    MILLION. 

Biscuits — flour,  two  pounds:  butter,  three  ounces ;  pounded 
sugar,  three  ounces  ;  ginger,  two  ounces. 

Cakes — flour,  one  pound  ;  butter,  six  ounces ;  sugar,  eight 
ounces  ;  ginger,  one  o  :!nce  ;  three  to  four  eggs ;  rind  of  half  a 
lemon. 


1200.  Ginger  Snaps, — Beat  together  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  mix  with  them  half  a  pint  of  mo- 
lasses, half  a  tea-cupful  of  ginger,  and  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour. 


1201.  Gingerbread, — Mix  together  three  and  a  half  pounds 
of  flour  ;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  one  pound  of 
sugar  ;  one  pint  of  molasses ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger, 
and  some  ground  orange-peel. 

1202.  Raspberry  Cakes, — Take  any  quantity  of  fruit  you 
please,  weigh  and  boil  it,  and  when  mashed,  and  the  liquor  is 
washed,  add  as  much  sugar  as  was  equal  in  weight  to  the  raw 
fruit.  Mix  it  very  well  off  the  fire  till  the  whole  is  dissolved, 
then  lay  it  on  plates,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun.  When  the  top 
part  dries,  cut  it  ofl*  into  small  cakes,  and  turn  them  on  a  fresh 
plate.  When  dry,  put  the  whole  in  boxes,  with  .layers  of 
paper. 

1203.  Rock  Cakes, — Mix  together  one  pound  of  flour;  half 
a  pound  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  half  a  pound  of 
currants  or  cherries,  and  four  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of 
two  ;  a  little  wine  and  candied  lemon-peel  are  a  great  improve- 
ment. 


1204.  Cup  Cakes, —Wix  together  five  cups  of  flour;  three 
cups  of  sugar  ;  one  cup  of  butter  ;  one  cup  of  milk  ;  three  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  one  wine-glass  of  wine  ;  one  of  brandy,  and  a  little 
cinnamon. 


1205.  Jumbles, — Take  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  pounded  fine; 
one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  four  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  a  little  rose-water  and 
spice ;  mix  them  well,  and  roll  them  in  sugar. 


/CAKES,   FRITTERS,   ETC.  331 

1206.  Sponge  Cake. — Take  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar ; 
half  their  weight  in  flour,  well  sifted  ;  to  twelve  eggs,  add  the 
grated  rind  of  three  lemons,  and  the  juice  of  two.  Beat  the 
eggs  carefully,  white  and  yolks  separately,  before  they  are 
used.  Stir  the  materials  thoroughly  together,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


1207.  Apple  Fritters. — Pare  and  core  some  fine  large  pip- 
pins, and  cut  them  into  round  slices.  Soak  them  in  wine,  sugar, 
and  nutmeg,  for  two  or  three  hours.  Make  a  batter  of  four 
eggs ;  a  table-spoonful  of  rose-water ;  a  table-spoonful  of  wine ; 
a  table-spoonful  of  milk;  thicken  with  enough  flour,  stirred  in 
by  degrees,  to  make  a  batter ;  mix  it  two  or  three  hours  before 
it  is  wanted,  that  it  may  be  light.  Heat  some  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing pan ;  dip  each  slice  of  apple  separately  in  the  batter,  and 
fry  them  brown ;  sift  pounded  sugar,  and  grate  nutmeg  over 
them. 


1208.  A  Charlotte  Rus'se, — It  is  very  difficult  to  prepare  this 
delicate  dish,  and  we  advise  all  inexperienced  house-keepers 
not  to  undertake  it  without  the  superintendence  of  a  professed 
cook. 

Extract  the  flavor  from  a  vanilla-bean,  by  boiling  it  in  half 
a  pint  of  milk.  The  milk  must  then  be  strained;  and,  when 
cold,  mix  with  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the  mixture. 
Heat  it  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  until  it  becomes  a  cus- 
tard, but  take  great  care  that  it  does  not  boil.  Boil  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  with  a  pint  of  water.  The  isinglass  must  be  tho- 
roughly dissolved  before  it  is  fit  foi*  use,  and  one-half  of  the 
water  boiled  away.  The  custard  being  cold,  drain  the  isinglass 
into  it,  and  stir  them  hard  together.  Leave  them  to  cool, 
while  you  prepare  the  rest  of  the  mixture.  Whip  a  quart  of 
cream  to  a  froth,  (the  cream  should  be  rich,)  and  mix  it  with 
Ihe  custard ;  in  whipping  the  cream,  great  care  should  be  taken 
to  make  it  quite  light ;  the  safest  way  is,  to  remove  the  froth 
as  fast  as  it  gathers,  with  a  strainer,  until  the  whole  is  whipped. 

Take  two  round  slices  of  almond  sponge-cake ;  glaze  them 
with  the  beaten  white  of  Q^g  mixed  with  sugar.  Lay  one  on 
the  bottom  of  a  circular  mould,  and  reserve  the  other  for  the 
top. 

Cut  some  more  sponge-cake  into  long  pieces;  glaze  them 


833  MRS.  bale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

carefully  with  the  egg,  and  line  the  sides  of  the  mould  with 
them.  Each  piece  should  lap  a  little  over  the  other,  or  the 
form  will  ijot  be  perfect.  The  custard  will  by  this  time  be  just 
beginning  to  congeal;  pour  it  gently  into  the  mould,  and  cover 
the  top  with  the  piece  of  cake  which  has  already  been  prepared. 
The  cake  around  the  sides  must  be  trimmed  evenly,  so  that 
the  upper  piece  wdll  fit  without  leaving  any  vacancies. 

Pound  some  ice,  and  throw  it  iiito  a  tub,  covering  it  well 
with  coarse  salt.  The  mould  should  then  be  set  into  the  midst 
of  this  ice,  and  must  remain  there  an  hour.  Prepare  an  icing 
with  powdered  sugar  and  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  flavoring  it 
with  lemon-juice,  or  essence  of  lemon,  orange,  or  rose-water, 
according  to  the  taste.  The  Charlotte  Russe  is  then  turned  out 
upon  a  handsome  dish,  and  iced  over.  It  should  be  moved 
about  as  little  as  possible  ;  and,  to  ensure  success  in  preparing 
it,  the  utmost  care  must  be  taken  to  follow  the  above  direc- 
tions. 

At  large  parties,  a  Charlotte  Eusse  is  as  indispensable  on  the 
supper-table  as  ice-cream. 

1209.  Batter  Pudding. — Take  six  ounces  of  fine  flour,  a  little 
salt,  and  three  eggs ;  beat  it  up  well  with  a  little  milk,  added 
by  degrees  till  the  batter  is  quite  smooth :  make  it  the  thick- 
ness of  cream :  put  it  into  a  buttered  pie-dish,  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour ;  or,  in  a  buttered  and  floured  basin,  tied 
over  tight  with  a  cloth :  boil  one  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours. 

Any  kind  of  ripe  fruit  that  you  like  may  be  added  to  the 
batter — only  you  must  make  the  batter  a  little  stiffer.  Blue- 
berries, or  finely-chopped  apple,  are  most  usually  liked. 


1210.  French  Batter,  {for  frying  Vegetables,  and  for  Apple^ 
Peachy  or  Orange  Fritters), — Cut  two  ounces  of  good  butter 
into  small  bits ;  pour  on  it  less  than  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water;  and,  when  it  is  dissolved,  add  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  so  that  the  whole  shall  not  be  quite  milk- 
warm  :  mix  it  then  by  degrees,  and  very  smoothly,  with  twelve 
ounces  of  fine,  dry  flour,  and  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  if  the  batter 
be  for  fruit-fritters,  but  with  more,  if  for  meat  or  vegetables. 
Just  before  it  is  used,  stir  into  it  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  solid  froth ;  but,  previously  to  this,  add  a  little  water, 
should  it  appear  too  thick,  as  some  flour  requires  more  liquid 
than  others,  to  bring  it  to  a  proper  consistency. 


t^UDDlNGS,   JELLIES,   ETC.  333 

Butter,  two  ounces ;  water,  from  three-quarters  to  nearly  a 
pint;  little  salt;  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  pound;  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  to  snow.  • 

1211.  Terrines  of  Rice,  sweet  and  savory, — Wash  four  ounces 
of  Carolina  rice  in  several  waters,  and  leave  it  to  soak  for  ten 
minutes;  then  put  it  into  a  common  Nottingham  jar,  with  a 
cover,  and  in  shape,  larger,  considerably,  in  the  middle  than  at 
the  top — as  those  of  narrower  form  and  proportion  ably  greater 
height  will  not  answer  so  well.  This  jar  may  contain  one  quart 
or  two,  as  the  stove-oven  in  which  it  is  to  be  placed,  may  per- 
mit. The  smaller  size  has,  on  compulsion,  been  used  for  the 
present  and  following  receipts — the  iron-plate  in  the  centre  of 
the  only  oven  which  the  writer  had  at  command,  preventing 
a  larger  one  from  standing  in  it.  Pour  on  the  rice  an  exact  pint 
of  new  milk;  add  two  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  the  slightest 
pinch  of  salt,  and  any  flavor  which  may  be  liked.  Stir  the 
whole  well  for  a  minute  or  two;  put  on  the  cover  of  the  jar; 
make  a  bit  of  paste  with  flour  and  water,  sufficient  to  form  a 
wide,  thick  band  ;  moisten  the  side  which  is  laid  on  the  jar, 
and  bind  the  edges  of  the  cover  and  the  jar  together  securely 
with  it;  tie  brown  paper  over,  and  set  it  into  the  coolest  part 
of  the  oven  of  the  kitchen-range.  Bake  the  rice  gently  for  two 
hours  and  a  quarter  at  the  least,  and  turn  the  jar  half-round 
once  or  twice  while  it  is  in  the  oven.  Stir  it  lightly  up,  heap  it 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  send  it  to  table.  A  compote  of  fresh  fruit 
is  an  admirable  accompaniment  to  it. 

1212.  Nutmeg  Pudding. — Pound,  fine,  two  large  or  three 
small  nutmegs ;  melt  three  pounds  of  butter,  and  stir  into  it 
half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  a  little  wine,  the  yolks  of  ^yq  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  the  nutmegs.     Bake  on  a  pufT-paste. 


1213.  Wine  Jelly, — Soak  four  ounces  of  gelatine  in  one  quart 
of  cold  water,  for  half  an  hour.  In  the  meantime,  mix  with 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy  ;  one 
pint  of  white-wine ;  six  lemons,  cut  up  with  the  peel  on  ;  the 
whites  and  shells  of  six  eggs,  the  whites  slightly  beaten,  the 
shells  crushed  ;  three  pounds  of  white  sugar :  then  mix  the 
gelatine  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  put  them  over  the  fire. 
Let  it  boil,  without  stirring,  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  it 
through  a  flannel-bag,  without  squeezing.     Wet  the  mould  in 


334;  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

cold  water.     Pour  the  jelly  in,  and  leave  it  in  a  cool  place  foi 
three  hours. 


1214.  Economics. — It  is  often  a  matter  of  great  convenience 
as  well  as  of  economy,  to  give  a  new  and  presentable  form  to 
the  remains  of  dishes  which  have  already  appeared  at  table: 
the  follow^ing  hints  may,  therefore,  be  not  unacceptable  to  some 
of  our  readers. 

No.  1. — Calf's-feet  jelly  and  good  blanc-mange  are  excelleni 
when  just  melted  and  mixed  together,  w-hether  in  equal  or  un- 
equal proportions.  They  should  be  heated  only  sufficient  to 
liquify  them,  or  the  acid  of  the  jelly  might  curdle  the  blanc- 
mange. Pour  this  last,  when  melted,  into  a  deep  earthen  bowl, 
and  add  the  jelly  to  it  in  small  portions,  w^hisking  them  briskly 
together  as  it  is  thrown  in.  A  small  quantity  of  prepared 
cochineal — which  may  be  procured  from  a  chemist's — will  serve 
to  improve  or  to  vary  the  color,  when  required.  Many  kinds 
of  creams  and  custards  also  may  be  blended  advantageously 
with  the  blanc-mange,  after  a  little  additional  isinglass  has  been 
dissolved  in  it,  to  give  sufficient  firmness  to  the  whole.  It 
must  be  observed,  that,  though  just  liquid,  either  jelly  or  blanc- 
mange must  be  as  nearly  cold  as  it  will  become  without  thick- 
ening and  beginning  to  set,  before  it  is  used  for  this  receipt. 

A  sort  of  marbled  or  Mosaic  mass  is  sometimes  made  by 
shaking  together,  in  a  mould,  remnants  of  various-colored  blanc- 
manges, cut  nearly  of  the  same  size,  and  then  filling  it  up 
wath  some  clear  jelly. 

No.  2. — When  a  small  part  only  of  an  open  tart  has  been 
eaten,  divide  the  remainder  equally  into  triangular  slices,  place 
them  at  regular  intervals  round  a  dish,  and  then  fill  the  inter- 
mediate spaces,  and  cover  the  tart  entirely,  with  slightly-sweet- 
ened and  well-drained  whipped  cream, 

1215.  Pumpkin  Pie, — Stew  the  pumpkin  dry,  and  make  it 
like  squash  pie,  only  season  rather  higher.  In  the  country, 
where  this  real  Yankee  pie  is  prepared  in  perfection,  ginger  is 
almost  always  used  with  other  spices.  There,  too,  part  cream, 
instead  of  milk,  is  mixed  with  the  pumpkin,  w^hich  gives  it  a 
richer  flavor. 


1216.   Bhuharh  Stalks^  or  Persian  Apple — Is   the   earliest 
ingredient  for  pies,  which  the  spring  offers.     The  skiu  should 


PIES,    ROLLS,    YEAST,   ETC.  835 

be  carefully  stripped,  and  the  stalks  cut  into  small  bits,  and 
stewed  very  tender.  These  are  dear  pies,  for  they  take  an 
enormous  quantity  of  sugar  :  seasoned  like  apple  pies.  Goose- 
berries, currants,  &c.,  are  stewed,  sweetened,  and  seasoned  like 
apple  pies,  in  proportions  suited  to  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit; 
there  is  no  way  to  judge  but  by  your  own  taste.  Always  re- 
member, it  is  more  easy  to  add  seasoning,  than  to  diminish  it. 


1217.  Sujwrlative  Mince-meat^  for  Pies, — Take  four  large  lem- 
ons, with  their  weight  of  golden  pippins,  pared  and  cored,  of  jar- 
raisins,  currants,-  candied  citron  and  orange-rind,  and  the  finest 
suet,  and  a  fourth-part  more  of  pounded  sugar.  Boil  the  lemons 
tendei*,  chop  them  small ;  but  be  careful  first  to  extract  all  the 
pips;  add  them  to  the  other  ingredients,  after  all  have  beerx 
prepared  with  great  nicety,  and  mix  the  whole  well  with  from 
three  to  four  glasses  of  good  brandy.  Apportion  salt  and  spice 
by  the  preceding  receipt.  We  think  that  the  weight  of  one 
lemon,  in  meat,  improves  this  mixture  ;  or,  in  lieu  of  it,  a  small 
quantity  of  crushed  macaroons,  added  just  before  it  is  baked. 

1218.  Rolls, — Rub  into  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  two  ounces 
of  butter ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add 
a  table- spoonful  of  good  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  sufficient  warm 
milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cover  and  put  it  where  it  will 
be  kept  warm,  and  it  will  rise  in  an  hour.  Then  make  it  into 
rolls,  or  round  cakes ;  put  them  on  a  floured  tin,  and  balcB  in 
a  quick  oven  or  stove.  They  will  be  done  iii  ten  or  fifleen 
minutes. 


1219.  To  make  Yeast  in  the  Turkish  manner, — Take  a  small 
tea-cupful  of  split  or  bruised  peas,  and  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  set  it  in  a  vessel  all  night  on  the  hearth,  or  any 
warm  place.  The  next  morning  the  water  will  have  a  froth  on 
it,  and  be  good  yeast,  and  will  make  as  much  bread  as  two 
quartern  loaves. 

1220.  I)7jspepsia  JBreacl— The  following  receipt  for  making 
bread,  has  proved  highly  salutary  to  persons  afflicted  with 
dyspepsia,  viz  : — Three  quarts  unbolted  wheat  meal ;  one  quart 
soft  water,  warm,  but  not  hot;  one  gill  of  fresh  yeast;  one  gili 
of  molasses,  or  not,  as  may  suit  the  taste ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus. 


336  MRS.   HALE^S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

This  will  make  two  loaves,  and  should  remain  in  the  oven 
at  least  one  hour  ;  and  when  taken  out,  placed  where  they  will 
cool  gradually.  Dyspepsia  crackers  can  be  made  with  unbolted 
flour,  water,  and  saleratus. 


1221.  JJnfermented  Bread. — This  keeps  moist  longer  than 
bread  made  with  yeast,  and  is  more  sweet  and  digestible.  The 
brown  bread  made  in  this  way  is  particularly  recommended 
for  dyspeptics.  Take  four  pounds  of  flour,  half  an  ounce  avoir- 
dupois of  muriatic  acid  ;  the  same  of  carbonate  of  soda  ;  about 
a  quart  of  water.  First  mix  the  soda  and  flour  well  together 
by  rubbing  in  a  pan ;  pour  the  acid  into  the  water,  and  stir  it 
well  together.  Mix  all  together  to  the  required  consistence  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  immediately.  If  instead  of  flour,  unbolted 
meal  should  be  used,  take  three  pounds  of  meal ;  half  an  ounce 
avoirdupois  of  muriatic  acid  ;  the  same  of  carbonate  of  soda ; 
and  water  enough  to  make  it  of  a  proper  consistence.  Mix  in 
the  same  way. 


1222.  Rice  Caudle, — When  the  water  boils,  pour  into  it  some 
ground  rice  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water ;  when  of  a  proper 
consistency,  add  sugar,  lemon-peel,  and  cinnamon,  and  a  glass 
of  brandy  to  a  quart.     Boil  all  smooth. 

Or : — Soak  some  Carolina  rice  in  water  an  hour,  strain  it, 
and  put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  rice  into  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of 
milk ;  simmer  till  it  will  pulp  through  a  sieve,  then  put  the 
pulp  and  milk  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  bruised  clove,  and  a 
bit  of  white  sugar.  Simmer  ten  minutes :  if  too  thick,  add  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  milk,  and  serve  with  thin  toast. 

1223. — Johnny  Cakes. — Sift  a  quart  of  corn  meal  into  a  pan ; 
make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water. 
Mix  the  meal  and  water  gradually  into  a  batter,  adding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt;  beat  it  very  quickly,  and  for  a  long  time,  till 
it  becomes  quite  light ;  then  spread  it  thick  and  even  on  a  stout 
piece  of  smooth  board ;  place  it  upright  on  the  hearth  before  a 
clear  fire,  with  something  to  support  the  board  behind,  and  bake 
it  well ;  cut  it  into  squares,  and  split  and  butter  them  hot. 

They  may  also  be  made  with  a  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  wheaten 
flour  ;  add  Indian  corn-meal  sufficient  to  make  a  batter  like  that 
of  pancakes,  and  either  bake  it  in  buttered  pans,  or  upon  a 
griddle,  and  eat  them  with  butter. 


CKATASa,    CURRY,    ETC.  33T 

1224.  Green  Corn — Must  be  boiled  in  clear  water,  with  salt, 
from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour ;  if  old,  it  will  require  a 
longer  time.  It  must  be  sent  to  table  directly  it  is  done,  as  it 
loses  its  sweetness  by  either  boiling  after  it  is  done,  or  standing 
when  dished. 

(A  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  boiled  with  corn  is  said  to  pre- 
vent sickness.) 


1225.  Corn,  Oysters, — One  pint  of  grated  green  corn,  one 
cup  of  flour,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
pepper,  one  ^gg. 

Mix  the  ingredients  together,  drop,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. 
In  taste  they  resemble  fried  oysters.  They  are  an  excellent 
relish  for  breakfast,  and  a  good  side-dish  for  dinner. 


1226.  Sackafash,  or  _  Corn  and  Beans, — Boil  three  pints  of 
shelled  beans,  or  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  string  beans,  half  aa 
hour,  pour  off  the  water.  Cut  the  corn  off*  of  four  dozen  ears- 
put  it  in  the  pot  among  the  beans,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cover  them  with  boiling  water — boil  all  together  twenty  minutes. 
Rub  flour  into  a  large  piece  of  butter  and  stir  it  in,  then  let  it 
boil  up  once.     Pour  it  into  your  tureen  and  send  it  to  table. 

1227,  Winter  Sackatash, — As  in  winter  the  beans  and  corn 
are  both  dried,  they  will  have  to  be  soaked  over  night.  Par- 
boil the  beans  in  one  or  two  waters,  then  add  the  corn,  and  boil 
all  together  until  the  beans  are  boiled  to  pieces,  which  will  be 
several  hours.  Add  a  small  piece  of  loaf  sugar.  Before  dish- 
ing it  for  table,  mix  a  large  piece  of  butter  with  flour,  stir  it  ia 
and  let  it  boil. 


1228.  To  make  Curry  Powders, — Take  one  ounce  of  ginger, 
the  same  of  coriander-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  two  ounces  of  fine  pale  turmeric ;  these  ingredients  to  be 
pounded  separately  to  a  fine  powder,  and  then  warmed  by  the 
fire,  and  mixed  together.  Put  the  powder  into  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle,  cork  it  well  down,  and  put  it  into  a  dry  place. 

TRose  who  dislike  the  flavor  of  turmeric  may  substitute  saffi'on. 

1229.  To  prepare  a  Curry, — The  meat  should  be  fresh  and 
free  from  bone.  Cut  it  into  pieces  which  can  be  easily  served. 
To  each  pound  of  meat  add  a  table-spoonful  of  curry  powder, 

22 


338  ^  2iRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

and  about  half  the  quantity  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  these 
together,  and  rub  a  portion  of  it  upon  the  meat  before  it  is  fried, 
the  remainder  afterwards.  Fry  the  meat  in  a  little  butter. 
Try  onions  a  light  brown,  with  a  clove  of  garlic  if  approved ; 
drain  the  fat  from  both  the  meat  and  onions ;  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  and  cover  with  boiling  water ;  stew  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  rub  the  remainder  of  the  powder  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
water,  add  it,  and  let  it  stew  for  an  hour,  or  according  to  the 
time  necessary  for  the  meat  to  be  well  done.  If  no  other  acid 
is  used,  stir  in  a  little  lemon-juice  just  before  serving:  place  it 
in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  put  carefully  boiled  rice  round  it, 

1230.  Lord  Olive's  Curry, — Slice  six  onions,  one  green  apple, 
and  a  clove  of  garlic ;  stew  them  in  a  little  good  stock  until 
they  will  pulp,  then  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  curry-powder,  a 
few  table-spoonfuls  of  stock,  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper,  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  each ;  stew  in  this  gravy  any 
kind  of  meat  cut  into  small  pieces,  adding  a  piece  of  butter, 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour. 


1231.  To  free  Molasses  from  its  sharp  taste,  and  to  render 
it  fit  to  be  used  instead  of  Sugar, — Take  twenty -four  pounds 
of  molasses,  twenty-four  pounds  of  water,  and  six  pounds  of 
charcoal,  coarsely  pulverized :  mix  them  in  a  kettle,  and  boil 
the  whole  over  a  slow  wood  fire.  When  the  mixture  has  boiled 
half  an  hour,  pour  it  into  a  flat  vessel,  in  order  that  the  charcoal 
may  subside  to  the  bottom:  then  pour  ofl'the  liquid,  and  place 
it  over  the  fire  once  more,  that  the  superfluous  water  may  evapo- 
rate,  and  the  molasses  be  brought  to  their  former  consistence. 
Twenty-four  pounds  of  molasses  will  produce  twenty-four 
pounds  of  syrup. 

1232.  To  make  Apple  Molasses, — Take  new  sweet  cider  just 
from  the  press,  made  from  sweet  apples,  and  boil  it  down  as 
thick  as  West  India  molasses.  It  should  be  boiled  in  brass, 
and  not  burned,  as  that  would  injure  the  flavor.  It  will  keep 
in  the  cellar,  and  is  said  to  be  as  good,  and  for  many  purposes 
better  than  West  India  molasses.  • 


1233.  To  dress  Chestnuts  for  Dessert, — Let  them  be  well 
roasted,  and  the  husks  taken  oflT.  Dissolve  a  quarter  pound  of 
sugar  in  a  wine-glassful  of  water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 


HOME-MADE    WINES,    ETC.  339 

Put  this  and  the  chestnuts  into  a  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire  for 
ten  minutes ;  add  sufficient  orange-flower  water  to  flavor  the 
syrup ;  serve  in  a  deep  dish,  and  grate  sugar  over  them.  To 
be  handed  round  whilst  quite  hot. 

1234.  To  improve  Claret  Wine  when  acid, — Place  the  cask 
on  a  stand  for  refining,  put  into  it  a  quarter  pound  of  chalk 
broken  into  small  pieces.  Let  it  remain  one  day,  and  then  re- 
fine with  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  the  shells  broken,  and  a  hand- 
ful of  salt ;  all  these  are  to  be  mixed  with  some  of  the  winC; 
and  then  thrown  into  the  cask.  The  shells  are  not  to  be  powder 
ed,  but  simply  crushed  in  the  hand.  The  wine  will  be  fit  for 
bottling  in  two  weeks.  When  bottled,  it  should  be  laid  ou 
the  side.     The  bungs  to  be  out  as  short  a  time  as  possible. 

1235.  To  improve  Home-made  wines. — When  there  is  a  ten 
dency  to  acidity  in  wine,  add  to  it  sugar-candy  in  the  proportion 
of  a  pound  to  every  four  gallons  ;  dissolve  it,  and  put  it  into 
the  cask,  incorporating  it  w^ell. 

Poor  wines  may  be  improved  by  the  addition  of  bruised 
raisins.  If  one  ounce  of  powdered  roche-alum  be  put  into  a  cask 
of  four  gallons  of  wine,  it  will  make  it  fine  and  brisk  in  ten  days. 
Eipe  medlars,  or  bruised  mustard-seed,  tied  in  a  bag,  will  re- 
move mustiness,  or  other  disagreeable  taste. 

Pricked  wines  may  be  improved,  if  not  recovered,  by  being 
rac-ked  off  into  a  cask  that  has  contained  the  same  kind  of  wine. 
The  cask  should  be  first  matched  or  sulphured ;  and,  to  every 
ten  gallons  of  wine,  put  two  ounces  of  oyster-shell  powder,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  bay-salt ;  stir  it,  and  leave  it  a  few  days  to 
fine ;   after  which,  rack  it  into  another  cask,  also  matched. 

Burn  dry  walnuts  over  a  charcoal  fire,  and  when  they  are 
well  lit,  throw  them  into  the  wine,  and  bung  up ;  in  forty- 
eight  hours  they  will  correct  the  acidity.  One  walnut  will 
suffice  for  every  gallon  of  wine. 

If  bottled  wine  be  ropy,  shake  it  for  twenty  minutes,  uncork 
k,  and  pour  off  the  froth  or  scum,  when  the  rest  of  the  wine 
will  be  drinkable. 

1236.  Cashing, — The  casks  should  be  washed  with  hot  salt 
and  water,  then  with  hot  water,  and  lastly  with  a  portion  of 
the  fermented  liquor  made  to  boil. 

After  the  liquor  is  removed  into  the  cask,  it  will  slowly  fer- 


840  MI^S-    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION.        . 

ment,  and  some  will  evaporate.  .  The  cask  should,  however,  be 
kept  filled  near  the  bung-hole,  else  the  scum  cannot  be  thrown 
out. 

When  the  fret  subsides, -close  the  bung-hole,  and  bore  a  hole 
for  a  peg,  to  be  withdrawn  occasionally,  else  the  cask  may- 
burst. 

In  the  following  Spring,  determine  whether  you  bottle  or 
keep  in  wood  another  year  ;  but  wines  that  have  been  properly 
fermented,  and  promise  well,  will  be  improved  by  remaining 
in  the  cask  another  year.  Then,  if  the  wine  wants  rich  flavor, 
add  to  twenty  gallons,  five  pounds  of  sugar-candy. 

1237.  Bottling, — Brisk  wines  should  be  bottled  on  the  ap- 
proach of  Spring. 

If  the  wine  be  not  fine  enough,  draw  ofi*a  quart,  in  which  dis- 
solve isinglass  in  the  proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to  twenty  gal- 
lons, and  pour  the  solution  in  at  the  bung-hole.  In  about  three 
weeks,  the  liquor  will  be  sufficiently  clear  for  bottling. 

In  drawing  ofi*,  be  careful  to  tap  the  cask  above  the  lees. 
The  wine,  to  be  fit  for  bottling,  should  be  fine  and  brilliant, 
else  it  will  never  brighten  after.  When  bottled,  it  should  be 
stored  in  a  cool  cellar,  and  the  bottles  laid  on  their  sides,  and 
in  sawdust ;  but,  on  no  account  set  upright. 

In  making  wines,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  use  two  casks,  one  a 
very  small  one,  from  which  the  larger  one  may  be  filled  up, 
during  the  fermentation. 

1238.  Fining  for  Wine,—F\xt  an  ounce  of  isinglass  into  a 
quart  jug,  with  one  pint  of  wine ;  stir  it  twice  or  thrice  a  day, 
and  it  will  soon  dissolve  ;  when  strain  it  through  a  sieve.  A 
pint  of  this  fining  will  be  sufficient  for  a  cask  of  twenty 
gallons. 

When  the  fining  is  put  into  the  cask,  stir  it  up  with  a  stick, 
taking  care  not  to  touch  the  bottom,  so  as  to  disturb  the  lees. 
Fill  up  the  cask,  if  necessary,  bung  it  down,  and  in  a  week 
the  wine  will  be  fit  for  bottling. 

For  white  wine  only,  add  and  mix,  as  above,  a  quarter  of  i\ 
pint  of  milk  to  every  gallon  of  wine.  It  may  also  be  fined 
with  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  up  with  some  wine,  in  the  pro 
portion  of  four  whites  to  sixteen  gallons  of  wine. 


1239.   To  sweeten  Casks, — If  a  cask,  after  the  contents  are 
drunk  out,  be  well  stopped,  and  the  lees  be  allowed  to  remain 


HOME-MADE    WINES,   ETC.  341 

in  it  til]  it  is  again  to  be  used,  it  will  only  be  necessary  to 
scald  it ;  taking  care,  before  you  fill  it,  to  see  that  the  hoops 
are  well  driven.  Should  the  air  get  into  the  cask,  it  will  be- 
come musty,  and  scalding  will  not  improve  it ;  the  surest  way 
will  be  then  to  take  out  the  head  of  the  cask,  to  be  shaved, 
then  to  burn  it  a  little,  and  scald  it  for  use.  Or,  put  into  the 
cask  some  quick  lime  and  cold  water,  bung  it  down,  shake  it 
for  some  time,  and  then-  scald  it ;  or,  burn  a  match  in  it,  and 
scald  it. 

Or,  mix  half  a  pint  of  the  strongest  sulphuric  acid  in  an 
open  vessel,  with  a  quart  of  water,  put  it  into  the  cask,  and 
roll  it  well  about ;  next  day,  add  one  pound  of  chalk,  bung  it 
down,  and  in  three  or  four  days  the  cask  should  be  washed  out 
with  boiling  water. 

To  prepare  a  match,  melt  some  brimstone,  and  dip  into  it  a 
long  narrow  piece  of  coarse  linen  cloth,  or  brown  paper  ;  when 
to  be  used,  set  fire  to  the  match,  put  it  in  at  the  bung-hole  of 
the  cask,  fastening  one  end  under  the  bung,  and  let  it  remain 
for  a  few  hours. 


1240.  A  Filtering  Bog — Will  be  useful  in  fining  wines :  it 
may  be  made  of  a  yard  of  moderately-fine  flannel,  laid  sloping, 
so  as  to  have  the  bottom  very  narrow,  and  the  top  the  full 
breadth  ;  strongly  sew  up  the  side,  and  fold  and  sew  the  upper 
part  of  the  bag  about  a  broad  wooden  hoop,  to  be  suspended 
by  a  cord  fastened  in  three  or  four  places. 


1241.  Coloring  Wines, — In  the  coloring  of  wines,  many  sub* 
stances  have  been  used,  and  it  is  desirable  to  select  such  as 
may  also  communicate  an  agreeable  flavor.  Red  colors  are 
easily  obtained  from  beet-root,  logwood,  or  the  berries  of  the 
elder  ;  and  every  variety  of  yellow  may  be  produced  by  the 
use  of  burnt  sugar,  which  also  gives  an  agreeable  bitterness. 

There  is  no  end  to  the  materials  which  have  been  used  to 
give  a  flavor  to  wine.  The  flowers  of  elder,  cowslips,  clove- 
pinks,  and  mignonette,  are  well  known.  The  shavings  of  orris- 
root^  in  the  proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to  twenty  gallons,  will 
be  found  to  communicate  an  agreeable  perfume.  The  shavings 
should  be  tied  in  a  linen  bag,  and  suspended  in  the  cask  by  a 
string,  so  as  to  be  removable  at  pleasure,  if,  upon  trial,  it  is 
found  that  the  flavor  is  likely  to  be  too  predominant. 


342  ^KS.    HALE'S    EECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1^4%  To  chech  Fermentation. — Sulphate  of  potash  will  stop 
ferraentatioD.  One  dram  is  sufficient  for  a  pipe  of  liquor.  It 
will  be  useful  to  the  confectioner  to  know,  that  by  the  use  of 
the  same  salt,  the  fermentation  of  syrups  and  preserves  may 
also  be  effectually  prevented. 


1243.  Currant  Shrub  ;  easily  made. — To  evefy  quart  of  juice, 
add  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one  gill  of  brandy.  Bottle  and 
cork  it  tight.     Do  not  put  it  over  the  fire. 


1244.  Damson  Wine. — To  four  gallons  of  boiling  Avater,  add 
a  peck  of  damsons  ;  stir  this  liquor  twice  every  day.  Let  it 
stand  for  three  days,  and  then  strain  the  whole  through  a  lawn 
sieve.  Add  nine  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  and  three  spoonsful  of 
yeast ;  after  it  has  worked  in  a  tub  for  three  days,  turn  it  into 
a  cask,  and  add  three  quarts  of  elder  syrup.  Rack  the  wine 
in  a  fortnight.  Put  in  two  lemons,  sliced,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar,  rubbed  on  the  peel,  and  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
chopped.     Stop  it  close  till  March,  and  then  bottle  it. 


1245.  B^d  Cherry  Wine. — Strip,  when  full  ripe,  any  quan- 
tity of  the  finest  red,  or  Kentish  cherries,  from  their  stalks,  and 
stamp  them,  in  the  same  manner  as  apples  for  cider,  till  the 
stones  are  broken.  Put  the  whole  into  a  tub,  and  cover  it  up 
closely  for  three  days  and  nights ;  then  press  it  in  a  cider- 
press  ;  put  the  liquor  again  into  a  tub,  and  let  it  stand,  covered 
as  before,  two  days  longer.  Carefully  take  off  the  scum,  with- 
out in  the  smallest  degree  disturbing  the  liquor,  which  is  to  be 
poured  off  the  lees,  into  a  different  tub.  After  it  has  thus 
stood  to  clear  another  two  days,  it  must  again  be  cautiously 
skimmed,  and  the  clear  liquid  poured  off  as  before.  If  the 
cherries  are,  as  they  ought  to  be,  quite  ripe  and  sweet,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  good  sugar  will  be  sufficient  for  each  gallon  of 
juice,  which  is  to  be  well  stirred  in,  and  the  liquor  again  closely 
covered  up,  without  being  any  more  disturbed  till  the  next 
day ;  then  pour  it  carefully  from  the  lees,  as  before,  put  it  to 
stand,  in  the  same  manner,  another  day ;  and  then,  with  the 
like  care,  pour  it  off  into  the  cask,  or  casks,  in  which  it  is  in- 
tended to  be  kept.  The  above  process  must  be  often  repeated, 
shouid  the  lees  appear  gross  and  likely  to  make  the  liquor  fret. 
When  entirely  settled,  stop^it  up,  for  at  least  seven  or  eight 
months  •  then,  if  perfectly  fine,  put  it  in  bottles  ;  if  not,  drain 


HOME-MADB   WINES,   ETC.  34i 

it  off  into  another  vessel,  and  stop  it  up  for  six  months  longer^ 
before  you  venture  to  bottle  it,  when  it  will  want  only  age  to 
equal,  if  not  exceed,  all  foreign  wines.  It  will,  however,  be 
best  not  to  drink  it  till  at  least  ten  or  twelve  months  old. 


1246.  Hich  Morella  Cherry  Wine, — Having  picked*  off  from 
their  stalks  the  ripest  and  soundest  morella  cherries,  bruise 
them  well,  without  breaking  the  stones,  and  let  the  whole  stand 
twenty-four  hours  in  an  open  vessel.  Then  press  out  all  the 
juice,  and  for  every  gallon,  add  two  pounds  of  fine  loaf  sugar. 
Put  this  wine  into  a  cask,  and  when  the  fermentation  ceases,  stop 
it  close.  Let  it  stand  three  or  four  months,  then  bottle  it,  and 
in  two  months  more  it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  Some  crack  the 
stones,  and  hang  them,  with  the  bmised  kernels,  in  a  bag,  from 
the  bung,  while  the  wine  remains  in  the  cask. 


1247.  Incomparable  Apricot  Wine. — Take  eight  pounds  of 
ripe  apricots,  slice  them  into  two  gallons  of  spring  water,  and 
add  five  pounds  of  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Boil  them  together 
for  some  time,  without  taking  off  the  scum  ;  then  skim  it  off 
as  it  continues  to  rise,  and  put  it  in  a  clean  sieve,  over  a  pan, 
to  save  the  liquor  which  comes  from  it.  When  the  boUing 
liquor  is  as  clear  as  it  can  be  made  from  the  dross  of  the 
sugar,  pour  it,  with  the  drainings  of  the  sieve,  hot  on  the  ker- 
nels of  the  apricots,  which  must  be  put  with  the  stones  into  the 
pan,  where  it  is  intended  the  wine  should  be  left  to  cool.  Stir 
all  well  together,  cover  it  up  closely  till  it  grows  quite  cool, 
and  then  work  it  with  a  toast  and  yeast.  In  two  or  three  days, 
when  it  is  found  to  be  settled,  fine  it  off  into  a  cask,  leaving  it 
to  ferment  as  long  as  it  will.  After  it  has  done  working,  pour 
in  a  bottle  of  old  hock,  mountain,  or  sherry,  and  stop  it  up  for 
six  months  ;  then,  if  very  fine,  bottle  it,  and  keep  it  twelve 
months.     This  is  indeed  a  most  delicious  wine. 


1248.  To  detect  Sugar  of  Lead  in  Wines. — ^The  tincture  of 
orpiment  converts  wine  so  adulterated  to  a  black  color. 


1249.  Orange  Wine. — To  ten  gallons  of  water  put  twenty- 
eight  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs.  Boil 
them  together  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  keeping  the  liquor 
well  skimmed  all  the  time,  and  then  pour  it  hot  into  a  tub,  or 
large  pan,  over  the  peels  of  Mty  Seville  oranges.     Wlwa  U  is 


344  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

iiearly  cold,  take  three  spoonsful  of  yeast,  spread  on  a  piece  of 
toasted  bread,  and  put  in  the  liquor  to  make  it  ferment.  After 
it  has  stood  two  or  three  days,  pour  it  from  the  peels  into  the 
cask,  with  a  gallon  of  orange  juice,  which  takes  about  a  hun- 
dred and  twenty  oranges.  Let  it  remain  in  the  cask  till  it  has 
done  hiseing,  when  the  fermentation  will  have  ceased.  En- 
deavor to  proportion  the  size  of  the  cask  to  the  quantity,  as  it 
must  be  kept  filled,  so  as  to  work  out  at  the  bung-hole.  When 
the  fermentation  is  over,  draw  off  as  much  of  the  wine  as  will 
admit  one  quart  of  brandy  for  every  five  gallons  of  wine.  It 
will  be  fit  to  bottle,  or  drink  from  the  cask,  in  four  or  five 
months.  This  wine,  if  carefully  made,  according  to  these  plain 
directions,  will  be  found  exquisitely  delicious ;  and  were  it 
kept  four  or  five  years,  would  far  surpass  most  of  the  best 
foreign  wines,  as  they  are  usually  sold  in  England. 

1250.  Red  Currant  Wine. — To  eight  gallons  of  water  add 
twenty-four  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ;  boil  the  syrup  and  skim  it, 
till  the  scum  disappears.  Have  ready,  picked  from  the  stalks, 
two  gallons  of  red  currants,  taking  care  not  to  bruise  them. 
Pour  the  syrup,  boiling  hot,  on  the  currants.  Let  it  all  stand 
till  nearly  cold ;  then  add  a  teacupful  of  yeast.  Let  it  fer- 
ment for  two  days  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  into  the 
cask,  and  when  the  fermentation  entirely  ceases,  bung  it  tight. 
It  will  be  ready  to  bottle  at  the  end  of  two  months.  Into 
each  bottle  put  a  small  lump  of  sugar. 


1251.  Raisin  Wine. — To  every  gallon  of  water  weigh  seven 
pounds  of  raisins ;  pick  them  from  the  stalks,  and  put  them 
into  a  tub ;  pour  the  water  on  the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  a  fort- 
night or  three  weeks,  stirring  it  several  times  a  day.  Strain 
it,  and  press  the  fruit  very  dry  through  hair  bags,  then  put  it 
into  a  barrel,  but  do  not  stop  it  close.  In  about  four  months 
rack  it,  and  then  put  a  little  fresh  fruit,  and  some  brandy,  into 
the  barrel.  A  quart  of  brandy,  and  eight  or  ten  pounds  of 
fruit,  are  sufficient  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  gallons  of  wine. 
When  the  wine  is  racked,  draw  it  off  into  a  tub,  and  pass  the 
sediment  that  remains  through  a  flannel  bag ;  the  head  of  the 
barrel  must  then  be  taken  out,  and  the  barrel  rinsed  with  a 
little  of  the  wine.  After  the  head  is  again  put  in,  add  the 
brandy  and  fruit.  Put  the  bung  in  for  a  little  time,  but  not 
very  tight.     It  will  be  necessary  to  refine  the  wine  with  isin- 


HOME-MADE   WINES,   ETC.  345 

glass,  about  three  weeks  before  it  is  bottled,  which  should  not 
be  in  less  than  a  year.  One  ounce  of  isinglass,  dissolved  in 
half  a  pint  of  wine,  and  stirred  into  the  barrel,  will  be  suffi- 
cient. 

Before  the  water  is  poured  on  the  fruit,  it  should  be  boiled 
with  the  stalks,  and  with  hops  ;  the  latter  In  the  proportion  of 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  to  every  thirty  gallons  of  water.  Strain 
the  liquor,  let  it  grow  cold,  and  then  add  it  to  the  fruit. 


1252.  Spruce  Wine, — To  every  gallon  of  water  take  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  honey,  and  half  a  pound  of  fine  starch.  Before 
the  starch  is  mixed  with  the  honey-syrup,  it  must  be  reduced 
to  a  transparent  jelly,  by  boiling  it  with  part  of  the  water  pur- 
posely reserved  ; — a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  essence  of  spruce 
must  be  used  to  five  gallons  of  w^ater,  and  when  sufficiently 
stirred  and  incorporated,  pour  the  wine  into  the  cask.  Then 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  ale-yeast,  shake  the  cask  well, 
and  let  it  work  for  three  or  four  days,  after  which,  bung  it.  It 
may  be  bottled  in  a  few  days,  and  in  ten  days  afterwards,  will 
be  fit  to  drink.  When  this  wine  is  bunged,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  isinglass,  first  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  warmed 
liquor,  may  be  stirred  in  by  way  of  fining  it.  In  cold  weather, 
the  quantity  of  yeast  should  be  increased  :  in  warm  weather, 
very  little  ferment  is  requisite. 

1253.  American  Currant  TFi/ie.— -To  one  gallon  of  currant 
juice  add  two  of  water ;  to  each  gallon  of  this  mixture  add 
three  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  a  gill  of  brandy,  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  powdered  alum  :  put  the  whole,  into  a 
clean  cask,  in  March  draw  of,  and  add  another  gill  of  brandy 
to  each  gallon. 


1254.  Rich  Mead, — Mix  well  the  whites  of  six  eggs  in  twelve 
gallons  of  water ;  and  to  this  mixture,  when  it  has  boiled  half  an 
hour  and  been  well  skimmed,  add  thirty-six  pounds  of  the  finest 
honey,  with  the  rinds  of  two  dozen  lemons.  Let  them  boil 
together  some  little  time,  and  on  the  liquor's  becoming  suffi- 
ciently cool,  work  it  with  a  little  ale-yeast.  Put  it  with  the 
lemon  peel  into  a  seasoned  barrel,  which  must  be  filled  up  as  it 
flows  over  with  some  of  the  reserved  liquor;  and  when  the  hiss- 
ing ceases,  drive  the  bung  close.  After  the  wine  has  stood 
five  or  six  months,  bottle  it  for  use.     If  intended  to  be  k^t 


348  ■   MR^'.  bale's  receipts  for  thb  milliox. 

several  years,  put  in  a  pound  more  honey  for  every  gallon  of 
water. 


1255.  Red  and  White  Mead  with  Raspberries  and  Currants,-^ 
For  every  gallon  of  wine  to  be  made,  take  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  honey,  half  an  ounce  of  tartar,  or  Bologna  argpl,  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  fruit.  If  for  white  wine,  white 
argol  should  be  used  with  white  currants;  if  for  red  wine,' red 
argol  with  red  currants  or  raspberries.  Prepare  the  honey  by 
mixing  it  with  as  much  water  as  will,  when  added  to  the  juice 
of  the  fruit  (allowing  for  diminution  by  boiling,  &c.),  make  the 
proposed  quantity  of  wine.  This  being  well  boiled  and  clari- 
iied,  infuse  in  it  a  moderate  quantity  of  rosemary  leaves,  laven- 
der, and  sweet-brier,  and  when  they  have  remained  for  two 
days,  strain  the  liquor,  and  add  it  to  the  expressed  juice  of  the 
fruit,  put  in  the  dissolved  argol,  stir  the  whole  well  together, 
and  leave  it  to  ferment.  In  two  or  three  days,  put  it  in  a 
seasoned  barrel;  keep  filling  it  up,  as  the  liquor  flows  over; 
and  on  its  ceasing  to  work,  sink  in  it  a  muslin  bag  of  Seville 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  with  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmegs, 
and  closely  bung  the  cask.  If  kept  for  six  months  or  more  in 
the  wood,  and  at  least  nine  in  bottles,  this  wine  will  be  excellent, 
whether  red  or  white.  In  a  similar  way  may  be  made  all  sorts 
of  fruit  wines,  thus  substituting  honey  for  sugar. 

1256.  Nectar, — Take  -half  a  pound  of  raisins  of  the  sun, 
chopped,  one  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  two  lemons,  sliced, 
and  the  peel  of  one.  Put  them  into  an  earthen  vessel  with  two 
gallons  of  water,  the  water  having  been  boiled  half  an  hour ; 
and  put  them  in  while  the  water  is  boiling.  Let  the  whole 
stand  three  or  four  days,  stirring  it  twice  a  day ;  then  strain  it, 
and  in  a  fortnight  it  will  be  ready  for  use, 

1257.  Syrup  of  Cloves^  Cinnamon^  or  Mace. — All  these  syrups 
are  made  exactly  on  the  same  plan. — Take  two  ounces  of  either 
cloves,  cinnamon,  or  mace,  well  pounded,  and  put  it  into  a  pint 
of  boiling  water  in  a  small  stewpan.  Let  it  boil  half  an  hour, 
pass  the  liquor  through  a  hair  sieve,  dissolve  in  it  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  clear  it  over  the  fire,  with  the 
white  of  an  ^gg  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  a  little  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the  syrup  is  formed 
ajid  clear.  When  quite  cold,  put  it  in  bottles,  which  must  be 
closely  corked. 


SYRUPS,    SHERBET,    ETC.  847 

i258.  Syrup  of  Ginger. — Steep  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  beaten 
ginger  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  closely  covered  up  for  twenty- 
four  hours  ;  then,  straining  off  the  infusion,  make  it  into  a  syrup, 
by  adding  at  least  two  pounds  of  fine  loaf  sugar,  dissolved,  and 
boiled  up  in  a  hot  water  bath. 

1259.  French  Rossolis^  pei'fumed  with  Flowers. — Boil  two 
quarts  of  spring  water,  to  take  oif  the  hardness  ;  then  take  it 
olF  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  only  lukewarm,  throw  in  a  pinch  of 
the  most  odoriferous  flowers,  and  let  them  infuse  till  the  liquid 
is  cold,  and  the  fragrance  all  extracted.  Then  take  away  the 
flowers  with  a  skimmer,  strain  the  liquid,  and  add  to  it  a  pint 
of  clarified  syrup,  and  half  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  a  ros- 
solis,  or  sun-dew,  will  be  produced. 


1260.  Bergamot  Water. — Make  a  pint  of  syrup  ;  and  when 
cold,  press  into  it  half  a  dozen  fine  lemons,  with,  or  without,  a 
Seville  orange,  or  two  China  oranges,  adding  as  much  water  as 
may  be  necessary ;  then  putting  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  genuine 
essence  of  bergamot,  run  the  whole  through  a  lawn  sieve,  and 
it  is  immediately  ready  for  drinking. 


1261-.  Peach  and  Apricot  Waters. — Both  these  waters,  as  well 
as  those  of  other  fruits,  are  readily  made  by  mixing  two  or 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  the  respective  jams  with  a  few  blanched 
and  pounded  bitter  almonds,  lemon-juice,  and  cold  spring  water, 
with  powdered  loaf  sugar  to  your  taste.  On  being  run  through 
a  lawn  sieve,  these  waters  are  immediately  fit  to  drink. 


1262.  Persian  and  Turkish  Sherbet. — The  method  pursued 
by  the  Persians,  Turks,  &c.,  is  to  extract  the  fragrant,  rich,  and 
acidulated  juices  of  the  finest  flowers  and  fruits,  and  make  them, 
with  the  addition  of  sugar,  into  what  we  call  fruit  jellies  or 
lozenges,  which  are  dissolved  in  the  purest  spring  water,  and 
thus  form  the  agreeable  beverage  denominated  sherbet.  For 
example,  they  evaporate  the  purified  juice  of  citrons  in  a  water 
bath  with  a  slow  fire,  till  it  becomes  of  nearly  the  consistence  of 
honey,  melting,  in  the  mean  time,  some  finely  powdered  loaf 
sugar  in  a  silver  dish,  and  continually  stirring  it  with  a  flat 
wooden  spoon;  when  the  sugar  is  very  dry,  they  sprinkle  over 
it,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  prepared  juice  of  citron  ;  continuing  to 
stir  it  till  the  whole  has  sufficient  moisture  to  form  a  paste, 


348  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

which  they  make  into  lozenges,  and  keep  in  a  dry,  and  rather 
warm  situation  ;  in  this  way,  they  prepare  all  the  acid  juices, 
such  as  barberries,  lemons,  gooseberries,  6lg,  :  with  the  less 
acid  and  more  delicately  flavored  fruits,  they  proceed  differently, 
only  well  heating  the  sugar  in  a  silver  dish,  adding  to  it  by  de- 
grees the  fresh  juice,  and  stirring  it  constantly  till  a  paste  is 
formed.  This  must  not  be  made  into  lozenges  till  perfectly  dry, 
r.nd  they  must  be  put  into  a  box  lined  with  paper,  and  kept  in 
a  dry  place.  They  are  variously  prepared  with  orange-flowers, 
roses,  &c.  The  Persians  and  Turks  are  said  to  prepare  a  favor- 
ite sherbet  with  violet  vinegar,  pomegranate-juice,  and  sugai 
formed  into  lozenges. 


12G3.  Hypocras^  as  made  at  Paris, — Put  into  a  quart  of  the 
best  and  strongest  red  wine  half  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  half  a  dram  of  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  coriander  seeds,  two 
white  pepper-corns,  a  little  Seville  orange  peel,  a  blade  of  mace, 
a  small  quantity  of  lemon-juice,  and  four  cloves  ;  the  spices,  &c., 
being  all  previously  beaten  in  a- mortar.  When  the  whole  has 
infused  three  or  four  hours,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  milk  ;  and 
filtering  the  liquid  through  a  flannel  bag,  it  will  prove  excellent 
for  present  or  future  use. 


1264.  Strawberry  Sherbet. — On  half  a  pound  of  sugar  of  the 
best  quality,  broken  into  lumps,  pour  a  quart  of  spring  water. 
Let  it  stand  until  nearly  dissolved  ;  give  it  a  stir,  and  boil  it 
for  about  ten  minutes.  Take  ofl*  the  scum,  and  throw  into  the 
syrup  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sound  ripe  strawberries,  measured 
without  their  stalks.  Let  these  simmer  gently  until  they  shrink 
much  and  begin  to  break,  and  keep  them  well  skimmed,  or  the 
sherbet  will  not  be  clear.  Before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  add  the 
strained  juice  of  a  sound  fresh  lemon,  then  turn  the  preparation 
into  a  jelly-bag,  or  let  it  stand  for  a  quarter,  of  an  hour,  and 
then  strain  it  through  a  muslin  folded  in  four.  This  latter 
method  is  generally  quite  sufficient  to  render  any  liquid  not 
thickened  by  the  over-hoiX^di  pulp  of  fruit,  quite  tmnsparent. 
When  strawberries  abound,  a  quart,  or  even  more,  may  be 
used  for  this  preparation ;  and  the  proportion  of  sugar  can  al- 
ways be  increased  or  diminished  to  the  taste.  To  give  the 
sherbet  an  Oriental  character,  boil  in  it  the  petals  of  six  or 
eight  orange,  lemon,  or  citron  blossoms;  or  orange-flower 
water  may  be  used. 


LEMONADE,   ORCEAT,   ETC.  349 

1265.  Lemonade  [Italian), — Two  dozen  lemons  must  be  pared 
and  pressed  ;  the  juice  should  be  poured  on  the  peels,  and  re. 
main  on  them  all  night ;  in  the  morning  add  two  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar,  a  quart  of  good  w^hite  wine,  and  three  quarts  of 
boiling  water.  When  these  ingredients  are  blended,  add  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk.  Strain  the  whole  through  a  jelly-bag 
till  it  becomes  quite  clear. 

1266.  Lemonade, — One  of  the  best  methods  of  making  lemon- 
ade is  to  prepare  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  over  a  clear  fire, 
skimming  it  quite  clean  ;  to  this  add  the  juice  of  any  number 
of  lemons,  according  to  the  quantity  you  wish  to  make;  also 
some  of  the  rinds. 


1267.  Bich  Orangeade, — Steep  the  yellow  rinds  of  six  China, 
and  two  Seville  oranges  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  closely 
covered  up  for  five  or  six  hours;  then  make  a  syrup  with  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  three  pints  of  water,  mix  the  infusion  and 
syrup  together,  press  in  the  juice  of  a  dozen  China  oranges,  and 
the  two  Seville  oranges  from  which  the  rind  was  takeUi^  stir  ihe 
whole  well  together,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly-bag;  afterwards, 
if  agreeable,  a  little  orange-flower  water,  with  some  capillaire 
syrup,  may  be  added,  should  sweetness  be  wanted.  Two 
lemons  may  be  used,  as  well  as  the  two  Seville  oranges ; 
but  care  should  be  taken  that  the  flavor  of  the  lemons  does  not 
predominate, 

1268.  Orgeat  Paste, — This  paste,  which  will  keep  twelve 
months,  is  nearly  as  soon  made  into  orgeat  as  the  orgeat  syrup. 
The  mode  of  preparing  it  in  Paris,  is  by  well  pounding  blanched 
almonds  with  a  little  water,  to  prevent  their  turning  to  oil; 
then  adding  half  the  weight  of  the  almonds  in  pounded  sugar, 
and  mixing  both  together  into  a  paste. 

Of  this  paste,  when  wanted,  mix  a  small  portion,  about  the 
sire  of  an  Q^g^  in  a  pint  of  spring  water,  and  strain  it  through 
a  napkin.  The  usual  English  mode  of  making  orgeat  paste  is, 
by  pounding  in  the  same  manner,  half  an  ounce  of  bitter,  to  a 
pound  of  sweet,  almonds ;  and  boiling  a  quart  of  common 
syrup,  till  it  becomes  what  is  called  blow  ;  mixing  the  almonds 
with  it  over  the  fire,  well  stirred  all  the  time,  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, till  it  becomes  a  stiff  paste ;  then,  on  its  getting  quite  cold, 
putting  it  in  pots,  to  be  used  in  the  same  manner  as  the  other' 


350  MRS.    IIALfe's    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1269.  To  cork^  and.  i^rcserve  Cider  in  Bottles, — Good  corks 
are  highly  necessary,  and  if  soaked  before  used  in  scalding 
water,  they  will  be  more  the  pliant  and  serviceable  ;  and  by  lay- 
ing the  bottles  so  that  the  liquor  may  always  keep  the  cork  wet 
and  swelled,  will  much  preserve  it. 


1270.  Soda  Water  and  Ginger  Beer  Powders.— Cd^rhontiiQ  of 
soda  and  tarta-ric  acid,  of  each  two  ounces  ;  fine  loaf  sugar 
rolled  and  sifted,  six  ounces  ;  pure  essence  of  lemon,  twenty- 
five  or  thirty  drops.  To  be  well  mixed  in  a  marble  mortar, 
kept  in  a  bottle  closely  corked,  and  in  a  very  dry  lAace.  When 
required  for  use,  two  tea-spoonfuls  to  less  than  a  half  pint  of 
water,  to  be  mixed  in  a  glass  that  will  hold  twice  that  quantity, 
and  drunk  while  in  a  state -of  effervescence.  If  half  an  ounce 
or  one  ounce  (according  as  it  may  be  liked  more  or  less  hot), 
of  best  ground  ginger  be  mixed  with  the  above  quantity,  it  will 
be  "  ginger-beer  powder." 


1271.  Spruce  Beer. — For  white  spruce,  pour  ten  gallons  of 
boiling  water  upon  six  pounds  of  good  raw  or  lump  sugar,  and 
four  ounces  of  essence  of  spruce ;  ferment  with  half  a  pint  of 
good  yeast,  put  into  stone  bottles,  cork  and  tie  them  over. 
For  brown  spruce  use  treacle  instead  of  sugar. 

Essence  of  spruce  is  a  remedy  for  colds,  rheumatisms,  &c., 
if  drunk  warm  at  bed-time. 


1272.  An  Irish  Cordial, — To  every  pound  of  white  currants 
stripped  from  the  stalks  and  bruised,  put  the  very  thin  rind  of 
a  large  fresh  lemon,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ginger,  well 
pounded  and  sifted.  Pour  on  these  one  quart  of  good  old  whis- 
key ;  mix  the  whole  up  thoroughly,  and  let  it  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  new  well-scalded  stone  pitcher,  or  deep  pan 
(crock),  covered  closely  from  the  air.  Strain  it  off;  stir  in  it, 
until  dissolved,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  pounded  sugar,  and 
strain  it  again  and  bottle  it.  This  is  an  Irish  receipt,  and  is 
given  without  variation  from  the  original. 

1273.  To  prevent  Beer  from  growing  jiat. — In  a  cask  contain- 
ing eighteen  gallons  of  beer,  becoming  vapid,  put  a  pint  of 
ground  malt,  suspended  in  a  bag,  and  close  the  bung  perfectly ; 
the  beer  will  be  improved  during  the  whole  time  of  drawing  it 
for  use. 


BEER,   VINEGAR,   ETC.  351 

1274.  To  recover  sour  Beer, — When  beer  has  become  sour, 
put  into  the  barrel  some  oyster-shelJs,  calcined  to  whiteness,  or 
a  little  fine  chalk  or  whiting.  Any  of  these  will  correct  the 
acidity,  and  make  the  beer  brisk  and  sparkling ;  but  it  cannot 
be  kept  long  after  these  additions  are  made. 

1275.  Boss  Vinegar  for  Salads  or  the  Toilette. — To  one  quartei 
of  a  pound  of  rose-leaves  put  two  quarts  of  good  vinegar ) 
cover  it  firmly  ;  leave  it  to  infuse  till  a  fine  tincture  is  obtained  j 
then  strain  it. 


1276.  Raspberry  Vinegar. — Pour  one  quart  of  vinegar  on 
two  pounds  of  fresh  raspberries,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  strain  them  through  a  hair-sieve  without  break- 
ing the  fruit ;  put  the  liquor  on  two  pounds  more  fruit,  and, 
after  straining  it  in  the  same  manner,  add  to  each  pint  of  juice 
half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  ;  put  it  in  a  stone  vessel,  and  let  it 
stand  in  boiling  water  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  when  cold, 
take  off  the  scum,  and  bottle  it. 


1277.  Cheap  2nd  easy  method  of  Brewing. — One  bushel  of 
malt  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  hops  will,  on  an  average, 
brew  twenty  gallons  of  good  beer. 

Tor  this  quantity  of  malt,  boil  twenty-four  gallons  of  water ; 
and,  having  dashed  it  in  the  copper  with  cold  water  to  stop  the 
boiling,  steep  the  malt  (properly  covered  up)  for  three  hours ; 
then  tie  up  the  hops  in  a  hair-cloth,  and  boil  malt,  hops,  and 
wort,  altogether,  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  which  will  re- 
duce it  to  about  twenty  gallons.  Strain  it  off,  and  set  it  to 
work  when  lukewarm. 

In  large  brewings,  this  process  perhaps  would  not  answer, 
but  in  small  ones,  where  the  waste  is  not  so  great,  and  where 
the  malt  can  be  boiled,  the  essence  is  .sure  to  be  extracted. 


1278.  To  make  excellent  and  wholesome  Table  Beer. — To  eight 
quarts  of  boiling  water  put  a  pound  of  treacle,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  ginger,  and  two  bay  leaves  ;  let  this  boil  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  then  cool,  and  work  it  with  yeast,  the  same  tis  other 
beer. 


1279.  How  the  Chinese  make  Tea. — The  art  of  making  tea 
consists  in  pouring  the  water  on  and  off  immediately,  so  as  to 
get  the  flavor. 


852  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1280.  Tea^  economically. — Young  Hyson  is  supposed  to  be  a 
more  profitable  tea  than  Hysx)n  ;  'but  though  the  quantity  to  a 
pound  is  greater,  it  has  not  so  much  strength, .  In  point  of 
economy,  therefore,  there  is  not  much  difference  between  them. 
Hyson  tea 'and  Souchong  mixed  together,  half  and  half,  is  a 
pleasant  beverage,  and  is  more  healthy  than  green  tea  alone. 
Be  sure  that  water  boils  before  it  is  poured  upon  tea.  A 
tea-spoonful  to  each  person,  and  one  extra  thrown  in,  is  a  good 
I'ule.     Steep  a  few  minutes. 


1281.  Turkish  method  of  making  Coffee. — The  coffee  must 
be  slowly  roasted,  not  burnt,  and  brought  only  to  an  amber 
brown  :  it  must  be  roasted  day  by  day.  The  flavor  dissipates 
in  a  few  hours  ;  it  must  be  reduced  by  pounding  to  an  impal- 
pable powder.  In  making  it,  two  opposite  and,  apparently,  in- 
compatible ends  are  to  be  secured — strength  and  flavor.  To 
obtain  the  first,  it  must  be  boiled.;  by  boiling,  the  second  is 
lost.  The  difficulty  is  surmounted  by  a  double  process — one 
thorough  cooking,  one  slight  one  ;  by  the  first  a  strong  infusion 
is  obtained  ;  by  the  second,  that  infusion  is  flavored.  Thus  a 
large  pot  with  coffee-lees  stands  simmering  by  the  fire  ;  this  is 
the  sherbet.  When  a  cup  is  wanted,  the  pounded  coffee  is  put 
in  the  little  tin  or  copper  pan,  and  placed  on  the  embers  ;  it 
fumes  for  a  moment,  then  the  sherbet  is  poured  on  ;  in  a  few 
seconds  the  froth  (caimah)  rises  ;  presently  an  indication  that 
it  is  about  to  boil  is  made  manifest,  when  the  coffee  is  instantly 
taken  from  the  fire,  carried  into  the  apartment,  turned  into  the 
cup,  and  drank. 


1282.  Cheap  and  valuable  substitute  for  Coffee, — The  flour  of 
rye,  and  yellow  potatoes,  are  found  an  excellent  substitute  for 
coffee.  Boil,  peel,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and  then  mix.  with 
the  meal  into  a  cake,  w^hich  is  to  be  dried  in  an  oven,  and  af- 
terwards reduced  to  a  powder,  which  will  make  a  beverage 
very  similar  to  coffee  in  its  taste,  as  well  as  in  other  properties, 
and  not  in  the  least  detrimental  to  health. 


1283.  Substitute  for  Cream. — If  you  have  not  cream  for 
coffee,  it  is  a  very  great  improvement  to  boil  your  milk,  and 
use  it  while  hot. 


1284.  Cocoa  is   the  foundation  of  chocolate  j   it  may  b« 


T©    KEEP    GRAPES,    ETC.  853 

pounded,  and  either  boiled  as  milk,  or  boiling  water  may  be 
poured  on  it.     It  is  very  digestible,  and  of  a  fattening  nature. 

1285.  Racahout  des  Arahes  ;  a  pleasant  beverage  for  Invalids, — 
Mix  thoroughly  one  pound  of  ground  rice  ;  one  pound  of  ar- 
row-root ;  half  pound  of  fine  chocolate.  Put  the  mixture  into 
a  jar  for  use.  When  it  is  wanted,  make  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
Racahout  into  a  paste  with  cold  water  or  milk  ;  then  stir  it 
into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  for  a  minute 
or  two  ;  add  sugar,  if  agreeable,  and  drink  it  as  you  w^ould 
chocolate. 


1286.  How  to  judge  the  Properties  of  Nutmegs, — The  largest, 
heaviest,  and  most  unctuous  of  nutmegs  are  to  be  chosen,  such 
as  are  the  shape  of  an  olive,  and  of  the  most  fragrant  smell. 


1287.  To  keep  Grapes, — Gather  the  grapes  in  the  afternoon 
of  a  dry  day,  before  they  are  perfectly  ripe.  llave  ready  a. 
clean  dry  barrel  and  wheat  bran.  Proceed  then  with  alternate 
layers  of  bran  and  grapes,  till  the  barrel  is  full,  taking  care  that 
the  grapes  do  not  touch  each  other,  and  to  let  the  last  layer  be 
of  bran ;  then  close  the  barrel,  so  that  the  air  may  not  be  able 
to  penetrate,  which  is  an  essential  point.  Grapes,  thus  packed, 
will  keep  nine  or  even  twelve  months.  To  restore  them  to 
their  freshness,  cut  the  end  of  the  stalk  of  each  bunch  of  grapes, 
and  put  that  of  white  grapes  into  white  wine,  and  that  of  the 
black  grapes  into  red  wine,  as  you  would  put  flowers  into  water, 
to  revive  or  keep  them  fresh. 


1288.  To  keep  Oranges  and  Lemons. — Take  small  sand  and 
make  it  very  dry  ;  after  it  is  cold,  put  a  quantity  of  it  into  a 
clean  vessel ;  then  take  your  oranges,  and  set  a  laying  of  them 
in  the  same,  the  stalk-end  downwards,  so  that  they  do  not  touch 
each  other,  and  strew  in  seme  of  the  sand,  as  much  as  will 
cover  them  two  inches  deep  ;  then  set  your  vessel  in  a  cold 
place,  and  you  will  find  your  fruit  in  high  preservation  at  the 
end  of  several  months. 


1289.  Another  Method, — Freeze  the  oranges,  and  keep  them 
in  an  ice-house.  When  to  be  used,  put  them  into  a  vessel  of 
cold  water  till  they  are  thawed.  JBy  this  means  they  may  be 
had  in  perfection  at  any  season  of  the  year. 

n 


354  MRS.   HALE'g    EECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1290.  Keeping  Apples, — Apples  should  be  placed  on  a  dry 
floor  three  weeks  before  they  are  packed  away  in  barrels.  They 
should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place ;  if  inclosed  in  a  water-tight  cask, 
they  may  be  kept  all  winter  in  a  loft  or  garret  without  further 
care,  and  will  come  out  sound  and  fresh  in  the  spring. 

1291.  To  keep  Onions, — Onions  should  be  kept  very  dry,  and 
never  carried  into  the  cellar  except  in  severe  weather,  when 
there  is  danger  of  their  freezing.  By  no  means  let  them  be  in 
the  cellar  after  March;  they  will  sprout  and  spoil. 


1292.  A  good  loay  of  cooking  onions, — It  is  a  good  plan  to 
boil  onions  in  milk  and  water ;  it  diminishes  the  strong  taste 
of  that  vegetable.  It  is  an  excellent  way  of  serving  up  onions, 
to  chop  them  after  they  are  boiled,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan, 
with  a  little  milk,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  let  them  stew 
about  fifteen  minutes.  This  gives  them  a  fine  flavor,  and  they 
ean  be  served  up  very  hot. 


1293.  To  keep  Parsnips, — Parsnips  should  be  kept  down  cel- 
lar, covered  up  in  sand,  entirely  excluded  from  the  air.  They 
are  good  only  in  the  Spring. 


1294.  To  keep  Cabbages. — Cabbages  put  into  a  hole  in  the 
ground  will  keep  well  during  the  winter,  and  be  hard,  fresh,  and 
sweet  in  the  Spring.  Many  farmers  keep  potatoes  in  the  same 
way. 


1295.  To  keep  Potatoes, — The  cellar  is  the  best  place  for  them, 
l^ecause  they  are  injured  by  wilting  ;  but  sprout  them  carefully, 
if  you  want  to  keep  them.  They  never  sprout  but  three  times; 
therefore,  after  you  have  sprouted  them  three  times,  they  will 
trouble  you  no  more. 

Note, — Boiled  potatoes  are  said  to  cleanse  the  hands  as  well 
as  common  soap ;  they  prevent  chaps  in  the  winter  season,  and 
keep  the  skin  soft  and  healthy. 


1296.  Boiling  Potatoes, — The  following  method  of  dressing 
potatoes  will  be  found  of  great  use  at  the  season  of  the  year, 
when  skins  are  tough  and  potatoes  are  watej-y.  Score  the  skin 
of  the  potato  with  a  knife,  lengthv/ise  and  across;  quite  around, 
and  then  boil  the  potato  in  plenty  of  water  and  salt,  with  the 


TO    KEEP    THINGS,    ETC.  o5o 

skin  on.  The  skin  readily  cracks  when  it  is  scored,  and  lets 
out  the  moisture,  which  otherwise  renders  the  potato  soapy  and 
wet.  The  improvement  to  bad  potatoes  by  this  method  of 
boiling  them  is  very  great,  and  all  who  have  tried  it  find  a 
great  advantage  in  it,  now  that  good  potatoes  are  very  difficult 
to  be  obtained. 


1297.   To  keep  Celery, — Celery  should  be  kept  in  the  cellar 
the  roots  covered  with  tan,  to  keep  them  moist. 


1298.  To  keep  Lettuce, — If  the  tops  of  lettuce  be  cut  off  when 
it  is  becoming  too  old  for  use,  it  will  grow  up  again  fresh  and 
tender,  and  may  thus  be  kept  good  through  the  summer. 

1299.  Good  Squashes, — Green  squashes  that  are  turning  yel- 
low,  and  striped  squashes,  are  more  uniformly  sweet  aiffl  mealy 
than  any  other  kind. 

1300.  To  dry  Pumpkin, — Cut  it  round  horizontally  in  tole- 
rably thin  slices,  peel  them  and  hang  them  on  a  line  in  a  warm 
room.  When  perfectly  dry,  put  them  away  for  use.  When 
you  wish  to  use  it,  put  it  to  soak  over  night;  next  day  pour  off 
the  water,  put  on  fresh  water,  stew  and  use  it  as  usual,  &c. 

Another  and,  as  some  think,  a  much  better  way,  is  to  boil 
and  sift  the  pumpkin,  then  spread  il  out  thin  in  tin  plates,  and 
dry  hard  in  a  warm  oven.  It  will  keep  good  all  the  year 
round,  and  a  little  piece  boiled  up  in  milk  will  make  a  batch 
of  pies. 

1301.  To  pickle  large  Mushrooms. — Pick  them  carefully,  and 
take  out  the  stalks;  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  pour  on  them 
boiling  spiced  vinegar,  with  a  little  salt  in  it. 

1302.  To  preserve  Green  Currants, — Currants  may  be  kept 
fresh  for  a  year  or  more,  if  they  are  gathered  when  green,  sepa- 
rated from  the  stems,  put  into  dry,  clean  junk  bottles,  and 
corked  vary  carefully,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air.  They  should 
be  kept  in  a  cool  place  in  the  cellar. 


1303.  Walnut  Ketchup. —  "^I'ake  half  a  bushel  of  green  wal- 
nuts, before  the  shell  is  formed,  and  grind  them  in  a  crab  mill, 
or  beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar;  then  squeeze  out  the  juices 


356  wi^s.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  wring  the  cloth  well  to  get  all  the 
juice  out,  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  put  a  quart  of  red  wine, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  anchovies,  the  same  of  bay  salt,  one 
ounce  of  allspice,  two  of  long  or  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  mace,  a  little  ginger  and  horse-radish,  cut  in  slices ; 
boil  all  together  till  reduced  to  half  the  quantity  ;  pour  into  a 
pan  ;  when  it  is  cold  bottle  it,  cork  it  tight,  and  it  will  be  fit  to 
use  in  three  months.  •  If  you  have  any  pickle  left  in  the  jar 
after  your  walnuts  are  used,  to  every  gallon  of  pickle  put  in  two 
heads  of  garlic,  a  quart  of  red  wine,  an  ounce  each  of  cloves 
and  mace,  long,  black,  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and  boil  them  all 
together,  till  it  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity,  pour  it  into  a 
pan,  and  the  next  day  bottle  it  for  use,  and  cork  it  tight. 

1304.  To  discover  if  Bread  is  adulterated  with  Alum. — Make 
a  solution  of  lime  in  aquafortis,  and  put  a  little  of  this  solution 
into  water,  in  which  you  have  steeped  the  bread  suspected  to 
contain  alum.  If  such  should  be  the  case,  the  acid,  which  was 
combined  with  the  alum,  will  form  a  precipitate  or  chalky  con- 
cretion at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel. 


1305.  To  preserve  Biscuit  from  Putrefaction, — To  preserve 
biscuit  a  long  time  sweet  and  good,  no  other  art  is  neces- 
sary than  stowing  it,  well  baked,  in  casks  exactly  caulked, 
and  carefully  lined  with  tin,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air ;  at  the 
same  time  the  biscuit  must  be  so  placed  as  to  leave  as  little  va- 
cant room  as  possible  in  the  cask ;  and  when  the  same  is 
opened  through  necessity,  it  must  be  speedily  closed  again  with 
great  care. 

1306.  A  good  Yeast, — Put  into  one  gallon  of  water  a  double- 
handful  of  hops  ; — boil  them  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then 
strain  off*  the  water  while  it  is  scalding  hot;  stir  in  wheat  flour 
or  meal  till  it  becomes  a  thick  batter,  so  that  it  will  hardly 
pour; — let  it  stand  till  it  becomes  about  blood-warm,  then  add 
a  pint  of  good  lively  yeast,  and  stir  it  well ;  and  then  let  it 
stand  in  a  place  where  it  will  be  kept  at  a  temperature  of  about 
seventy  dt*grees  Fahrenheit,  till  it  becomes  perfectly  light, 
whether  more  or  less  time  is  required  ;  and  tlien  it  is  fit  for 
use  ; — or  if  it  is  desired  to  keep  a  portion  of  it,  let  it  stand  sev- 
eral  hours  and  become  cool;  and  then  put  it  into  a  clean  jug 
smd  cork  it  tight,  and  place  it  in  the  cellar,  where  it  will  keep 


THE    DAIRY-  35*f 

cool ;  and  it  may  be  preserved  good,  ten  or  twelve  days,  and 
even  longer. 

1307.  The  Dairy, — Dairymen  will  find  a  great  advantage  in 
cheese  making,  by  putting  their  milk,  which  is  to  stand  over 
night,  into  small  air-tight  vessels.  They  wiJl  also  find  it  an 
advantage,  when  it  thunders,  to  suspend  the  vessels  by  a  cord 
or  chain,  as  the  jarring  of  the  shocks,  which  sour  the  milk,  will, 
in  a  great  measure,  be  prevented.  We  may  prevent  the  com- 
mencement of  sourness,  which  takes  place  in  milk  standing  in 
large  quantities,  by  a  wooden  follower  being  fitted  to  the  vat, 
and  pressed  on  the  milk.  If  any  one  doubt  the  utility  of  this, 
let  him  try  the  experiment  for  himself.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
your  cheese-vat  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch  with  milk,  and  let 
it  stand  through  the  night,  and  then  try  to  make  a  breakfast  of 
it  in  the  morning.  You  could  relish  tallow  as  well,  or  a  piece 
of  bread  and  butter  that  had  lain  in  the  sun  an  hour.  Neither 
milk,  butter,  nor  cheese  will  do  to  stand  in  the  light  of  the  sun, 
though  it  be  reflected,  as  it  will  produce  rancidity. 


1308.  Butter, — Keep  your  pails,  churn,  and  pans  sweet.  In 
winter  warm  the  pans  and  churns  with  hot  water,  in  summer 
cool  them  with  cold.  Keep  your  milk  in  summer  where  it  is 
cool  and  airy,  in  winter  where  it  is  warm.  In  warm  weather 
skim  your  milk  as  soon  as  it  is  thick;  in  colder  weather  skim  as 
soon  as  there  is  a  good  thick  cream,  and  be  careful  not  to  let 
it  remain  too  long,  as  it  will  acquire  a  bad  taste.  Churn  as 
often  as  you  have  cream  enough,  never  less  than  once  a  week. 
If  the  cream  is  of  the  right  temperature  when  commenced,  it 
will  not  froth,  and  if  it  does,  put  in  a  little  salt.  Use  no  salt 
but  tliG  best  ground  salt ;  work  out  all  the  butter-milk  with  a 
ladle  in  summer,  in  winter  use  clean  hands.  If  you  wish  to 
keep  it  some  time,  put  it  down  in  a  jar  or  firkin,  or  pickle-  in 
layers,  as  cleah  and  free  from  bu  :ter-milk  as  it  is  possible,  leav- 
ing a  space  for  pickle  over  it,  in  the  following  proportions. 
Half  a  pail  of  water,  one  quart  of  fine  salt,  two  ounces  of  loaf- 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  well  boiled  and  skimmed.  When 
cold,  cover  with  this,  and  it  will  keep  good  and  sweet,  the  year 
round.  * 


1309.   Cream, — The   quantity    of  cream   on   milk   may  be      * 
greatly  increased  by  the  following  process:     Have  two  pana 


358  MRS.  kale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

.  ready  in  boiling  hot  water,  and  when  the  new  milk  is  brought 
in,  put  it  into  one  of  these  hot  pans  and  cover  it  with  the 
other.  The  quality  as  well  as  the  thickness  of  the  cream  is 
improved. 


1310.  Method  of  curing  had  Tvb  Butter,— A  quantity  of  tub 
butter  was  brought  to  market  in  the  West  Indies,  which,  on 
opening,  was  found  to.  be  very  bad,  and  almost  stinking.  A 
native  of  Pennsylvania  undertook  to  cure  it,  which  he  did,  in 
the  following  manner  : — 

He  started  the  tubs  of  butter  in  a  large  quantity  of  hot  water, 
which  soon  melted  the  butter ;  he  then  skimmed  it  off  as 
clean  as  possible,  and  worked  it  over  again  in  a  churn,  and 
with  the  addition  of  salt  and  fine  sugar,  the  butter  was  sweet 
and  good. 


1311.  Method  of  taking  the  Rankness  and  disagreeable  Taste 
from  Iri^h  Salt  Butter — The  quantity  proposed  to  be  made  use 
of,  either  for  toasts  or  melting,  must  be  put  into  a  bowl  filled 
with  Lolling  water,  and  when  the  butter  is  melted,  skim  it  quite 
off;  by  this  method  it  is  so  separated  from  any  gross  particles, 
that  it  may  require  a  small  addition  of  salt,  which  may  be  put 
into  the  cojd  water  that  is  made  use  of  in  melting  butter  for 
sauce ;  and  though  the  butter  is  oiled  by  hot  water,  it  becomes 
a  fine  cream  in  the  boiling  for  sauce. 

1312.  To  remove  the  Taste  of  Turnips  from  Milk  or  Butter, — 
The  taste  of  the  turnip  is  easily  taken  off  milk  and  butter,  by 
dissolving  a  little  nitre  in  spring  water,  which  being  kept  in  a 
bottle,  and  a  small  tea-cupful  put  into  eight  gallons  of  milk, 
when  warm  from  the  cow,  entirely  removes  any  taste  or  flavor 
of  the  turnip. 


1313.  To  make  Salt  Butter  fresh, — Put  four  pounds  of  salt 
butter  into  a  churn,  with  four  quarts  of  new  milk,  and  a  small 
portion  of  arnotto.  Churn  them  together,  and,  in  about  an 
hour,  take  out  the  butter,  and  treat  it  exactly  as  fresh  butter, 
by  washing  it  in  w^ater,  and  adding  the  customary  quantity  of 
salt. 

This  is  a  singular  experiment.  The  butter  gains  about  three 
ounces  in  each  pound,  and  is  in  every  particular  equal  to  fresh 
butter.     It  would  be  greatly  improved  by  the  addition' of  two 


BUTTER,    OHEESK,    ETC.  359 

or  three  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  in  powder.  A  common  earthen 
churn  answers  the  same  purpose  as  a  wooden  one,  and  may  be 
purchased  at  any  pot  shop. 

1314.  Method  of  making  Stilto7i  Cheese. — Take  the  night's 
cream,  and  put  it  to  the  morning's  new  milk,  with  the  rennet ; 
when  the  curd  is  come  it  is  not  to  be  broken,  as  is  done  with 
other  cheeses,  but  take  it  out  with  a  soil  dish  ail  together,  and 
place  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain  gradually,  and,  as  it  drains,  keep 
gradually  pressing  it,  till  it  becomes  firm  and  dry  ;  then  place 
it  in  a  wooden  hoop  ;  afterwards  to  be  kept  dry  on  boards, 
turned  frequently,  with  cloth-binders  round  it,  which  are  to  be 
tightened  as  occasion  requires. 

Ill  some  dairies  the  cheeses,  after  heii^g  taken  out  of  the 
w^ooden  hoop,  are  bound  tight  round  with  a  cloth,  which  cloth 
is  changed  every  day  until  the  cheese  becomes  firm  enough  to 
support  itself;  after  the  cloth  is  taken  away,  they  are  rubbed 
every  day  all  over,  for  two  or  three  months,  with  a  brush ;  and 
if  the  weather  is  damp  or  nioist,  tw  ice  a  day  ;  and  even  be- 
lore  the  cloth  is  taken  off,  the  top  and  bottom  are  well  rubbed 
every  day. 

1315.  Coloring  for  Cheese, —  The  coloring  for  cheese  is,  or  at 
at  least  should  be,  Spanish  arnotto ;  but  as  soon  as  coloring  be- 
came general  in  this  country,  a  color  of  an  adulterated  kind  was 
exposed  for  sale  in  almost  every  shop  ;  the  weight  of  a  guinea 
and  a  half  of  real  Spanish  arnotto  is  sufficient  for  a  cheese  of 
fifty  pounds'  weight.  If  a  considerable  part  of  the  cream  of  the 
night's  milk  be  taken  for  butter,  more  coloring  will  be  requi- 
site. The  leaner  the  cheese  is,  the  more  coloring  it  requires. 
The  manner  of  using  arnotto  is  to  tie  up,  in  a  linen  rag,  the 
quantity  deemed  sufficient,  and  put  it  into  half  a  pint  of  warm 
water  over  night.  This  infusion  is  put  into  the  tub  of  milk,  in 
the  morning,  with  the  rennet  infusion  ;  dipping  the  rag  into  the 
milk,  and  rubbing  it  against  the  palm  of  the  hand  as  long  as  any 
color  runs  out. 


1316.  To  make  Cement  for  Bottles  or  Preserve  Jars, — Take 
one-third  bees'-wax  and  two-thirds  rosin,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  cement  required.  Pound  the  rosin  fine,  and  put  it  with 
the  wax  to  melt  in  any  old  vessel  fit  for  the  purpose.  When 
it  is  melted,  take  it  ofi'  the  fire,  and  add  powdered  brick-dust 


360  MRS.    HAIJE'S    RKCEIPTS    for    the    MILllON 

till  it  is  as  thick  as  melted  sealing-wax.  Then  dip  the  bottle 
necks  into  the  cement,  and  in  a  few  minutes  the  mixture  will 
be  dry. 

1317.  Blue  Wash  for  Walls, — Take  one  pound  of  lump  blue 
vitriol ;  pound  it  in  a  stone  mortar  as  fine  as  possible  ;  dissolve 
it  in  a  quart  or  two  of  hot  w^ater.  Slake  about  a  quarter  of  a 
peck,  or  perhaps  a  little  more  of  lime,  and  when  cold  pour  in 
the  i)lue  water  by  degrees,  and  make  it  whatever  shade  you 
desire. 

The  lime  must  be  slaked  and  the  vitriol  dissolved  in  earthen 
or  stone  ware,  and  the  whole  mixture  stirred  with  a  metal 
spoon.  If  wood  is  used  for  any  of  the  above  purposes,  the 
color  will  be  changed.  A  new  brush  should  also  be  used  to 
put  it  on  the  walls,  and  they  must  first  have  a  coat  or  two  of 
whitewash,  to  destroy  all  smoke  and  other  impurities. 

1318.  Yelloiv  Wash  for  Walls. — One  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
chrome  yellow,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  gum  Senegal,  two 
pounds  of  whiting. 


EASY  AND  CHEAP  MODE  OF  COLORING  CLOTHING,  Ac. 

1319.  ^"^  Blue  Composition^^''  a  compound  of  vitriol  and  in 
digo,  is  usually  kept  by  hatters  and  apothecaries.  It  colors  a 
good  and  durable  blue.  An  ounce  vial,  that  may  be  bought 
for  a  trifle,  will  color  a  large  number  of  articles.  It  is  an  eco- 
nomical plan  to  use  it  for  old  silk  linings,  ribbons,  &c.  The 
original  color  should  be  boiled  out,  and  the  material  thoroughly 
rinsed  in  soft  water,  so  that  no  soap  may  remain  in  it ;  for  soap 
ruins  the  dye.  Twelve  or  sixteen  drops  of  the  blue  composi- 
tion, poured  into  a  quart  bowl  full  of  warm  soft  water,  stirred, 
(and  strained,  if  any  settlings  are  perceptible,)  will  color  a  great 
many  articles.  If  you  wish  a  deep  blue,  pour  in  more  of  the 
compound.  Cotton  must  not  be  colored ;  the  vitriol  destroys 
it;  if  the  material  you  wish  to  color  has  cotton  threads  in  it, 
it  will  be  ruined.  After  the  things  are  thoroughly  dried,  they 
should  be  washed  in  cool  suds,  and  dried  again;  this  prevents 
any  bad  effects  from  the  vitriol;  if  shut  up  from  the  air, 
without  being  washed,  there  is  danger  of  the  texture  being  de- 
stroyed. 


MODES    OF    COLORING,    ETC.  361 

1820.  How  to  color  Green. — If  you  wish  to  color  green,  have 
your  cloth  free  as  possible  from  the  old  color,  clean  and  rinsed, 
and,  in  the  first  place,  color  it  a  deep  yellow.  Fustic  boiled  in 
soft  water  makes  the  strongest  and  brightest  yellow  dye ;  but 
saffron,  barberry  bush,  peach  leaves,  or  onion  skins,  will  answer 
pretty  well.  Next  take  a  bowl  full  of  strong  yellow  dye,  and 
pour  in  a  great  spoonful  or  more  of  the  blue  composition.  Stir 
it  up  well  with  a  clean  stick,  and  dip  the  articles  you  have  al- 
ready colored  yellow  into  it,  and  they  will  take  a  lively  grass- 
green.  This  is  a  good  plan  for  old  bombazet  curtains,  dessert 
cloths,  old  flannel  for  desk  coverings,  &c. 


1321.  Slate  Color, — Tea-grounds  boiled  in  iron,  and  set  with 
copperas,  make  a  very  good  slate  color. 

1322.  Purple  Slate  Color, — The  purple  paper,  which  comes 
on  loaf  sugar,  boiled  in  cider,  or  vinegar,  with  a  small  bit  of 
alum,  makes  a  fine  purple  slate  color.     Done  in  iron. 

White  maple  bark  makes  a  good  light-brown  slate  color. 
This  should  be  boiled  in  water,  set  with  alum.  The  color  is 
reckoned  better  when  boiled  in  brass,  instead  of  iron. 

The  purple  slate  and  the  brown  slate  are  suitable  colors  for 
stockings  ;  and  it  is  an  economical  plan,  after  they  have  been 
mended  and  cut  down,  so  that  they  will  no  longer  look  decent, 
to  color  old  stockings,  and  make  them  up  for  children. 

1323.  To  make  Nankin  Color.— K  pailful  of  lye,  with  a  piece 
of  copperas  half  as  big  as  a  hen's  Q^g  boiled  in  it,  will  color  a 
fine  nankin  color,  which  will  never  wash  out.  This  is  very  use- 
ful for  the  linings  of  bed-quilts,  comforters,  &c.  Old  faded 
gowns,  colored  in  this  way,  may  be  made  into  good  petticoats. 
Cheap  cotton  cloth  may  be  colored  to  advantage  for  petticoats, 
and  pelisses  for  little  girls. 

1324.  Nankin  Color ^  another  way. — The  common  birch-hark 
makes  a  very  beautiful  nankin  dye.  Cover  the  bark  with  water, 
and  boil  it  thoroughly  in  a  brass  or  tin  kettle.  Bark  stripped 
from  the  trees  in  autumn  is  best.  Set  the  color  with  alum.  A 
piece  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg  is  sufticient  for  two  pailsful  of  dye. 
Dip  the  articl^es,  wet  thoroughly  in  clean  water,  into  the  aluna 
water,  then  into  the  dye. 


3G2  MRS.    HALK's    UECEiriS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1325.  To  make  Straw-color  and  Yclloiu, — Saffron,  steeped  in 
earthea  and  strained,  colors  a  fine  straw  color.  It  makes  a  deli- 
cate or  deep  shade,  according  to  the  strength  of  the  tea.  The 
dry  outside  skins  of  onions,  steeped  in  scalding  water  and 
strained,  color  a  yellow  very  much  like  the  "  bird  of  paradise" 
color.  Peach  leaves,  or  bark  scraped  from  the  barberry  bush, 
color  a  common  bright  yellow.  In  all  these  cases,  a  little  bit 
of  alum  does  no  harm,  and  may  help  to  fix  the  color.  Ribbons, 
gauze  handkerchiefs,  &c.,  are  colored  well  in  this  way,  especially 
if  they  be  stiffened  by  a  bit  of  gum-arabic,  dropped  in  while  the 
stuff  is  steeping. 

1326.  To  make  Rose-color, — Balm  blossoms,  steeped  in  water, 
color  a  pretty  rose-color.  This  answers  very  well  for  the 
linings  of  children's  bonnets,  for  ribbons,  &;c.  It  fades  in  the 
course  of  one  season,  but  it  is  very  little  trouble  to  re-color 
with  it.  It  merely  requires  to  be  steeped  and  strained.  Per- 
haps a  small  piece  of  alum  migl^t  serve  to  set  the  color,  in  some 
degree.     In  earthen  or  tin. 

1327.  To  color  Black, — Logwood  and  cider,  boiled  together, 
in  iron — add  water  for  the  evaporation — makes  a  good  and  du- 
rable black.  Rusty  nails,  or  any  bits  of  rusty  iron,  boiled  in 
vinegar,  with  a  small  piec^  of  copperas,  will  also  dye  black  ;  so 
will  ink-powder,  if  boiled  with  vinegar.  In  all  cases,  black 
must  be  set  with  copperas. 

1328.  General  Rules  for  Coloring, — The  materials  should  be 
perfectly  clean;  soap  should  be  rinsed  out  in  soft  water;  the 
article  should  be  entirely  wetted,  or  it  will  spot;  light  colors 
should  be  steeped  in  brass,*  tin,  or  earthen  ;  and  if  set  at  all, 
should  be  set  with  alum.  Dark  colors  should  be  boiled  in 
iron,' and  set  with  copperas.  Too  much  copperas  rots  the 
thread. 


1329.  To  Wash  Carpets, — Put  the  carpets  down  on  a  per- 
fectly clean  floor ;  wash  them  first  with  warm  and  weak  soap- 
suds, wringing  the  wash-cloth  almost  dry ;  rinse  them  with 
clear  water.     Open  the  windows,  that  they  may  dry  quickly. 

It  is  obvious  that  the  above  directions  are  only  applicable  to 
the  lighter  sorts  of  carpets,  Scotch,  Kidderminster,  and  Vene- 
tian.     If  it  be  desired  to  cleanse  a  carpet  which  has  an  under 


WASHING    CARPETS,    ETO.  3Q3 

texture  of  thread.^  as  Brussels,  tapestry,  or  velvet,  the  carpet 
having  been  well  beaten  or  shaken,  and  washed,  should  be 
spread  out,  and  scrubbed  with  a  scrubbing  brush  and  ox- 
gall. A  pint  of  gall  and  three  gallons  of  water  will  clean  a 
large  carpet. 

After  the  use  of  the  gall,  the  carpet  must  be  thoroughly 
rinsed,  and  dried  in  the  open  air. 

1330.  To  Wash  Clothes,  on  a  small  scale,- — For  a  wash  for 
three  persons  put  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  soda  in  soap  and 
water  over  the  fire.  Wash  the  clothes  first  in  soap  and , 
water ;  rub  soap  on  the  soiled  or  greasy  places,  and  throw  them 
in  the  mixture.  Let  them  boil  an  hour ;  rinse  them  in  clear, 
cold  water ;  rinse  them  again  in  water  with  a  little  bluing  in  it. 
If  the  clothes  are  much  soiled,  put  them  to  soak  over  night.  " 

1331.  Washing  of  Woollen  Articles  ;  a7i  excellent  way, — It  is 
a  common  complaint  that  woollen  articles  thicken,  shrink,  and 
become  discolored  in  washing.  The  complaint  applies  both  to 
the  lighter  articles  of  knitted  wool,  such  as  shawls,  &;c.,  and  to 
thicker  and  heavier  materials-r-table  baizes,  carpets,  and  men's 
woollen  garments.  The  difficulty  in  either  case  may  be  obvi- 
ated by  strict  attention  to  the  method  about  to  be  explained. 
To  clear  the  way,  it  may  be  well  first  to  point  out  some  things 
which  never  ought  to  be  done,  but  which  frequently,  perhaps 
generally,  are  done  : — 

1.  Woollen  articles  are  never  to  be  w^ashed  in  hard  water, 
nor  in  water  softened  by  soda,  potash,  or  anything  of  that  kind. 
Soap  even  should  never  touch  them. 

2.  They  are  never  to  be  rubbed  at  all. 

3.  They  are  never  to  be  put  in  lukewarm  water  for  washing, 
nor  in  cold  water  for  rinsingj. 

4.  They  are  never  to  remain  lying  still  in  the  water  a  single 
minute. 

5.  They  are  never  to  be  wrung. 

6.  When  taken  out  of  the  water,  they  must  not  be  laid  down 
at  all,  before  the  process  of  drying  is  commenced,  nor  at  any 
time  afterwards  until  they  are  perfectly  dry. 

These  things  are  to  be  avoided  ; — Now  what  is  to  be  done  ? 

1.  Let  the  things  to  be  washed  be  first  well  brushed  and 
shaken,  to  get  rid  of  the  dust. 

2.  Before  the  woollen  things  are  wetted  at  all,  take  care  to 
have  everything  that  will  be  required,  ready  and  within  reach. 


3G4  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

3.  If  several  things  are  to  be  done,  let  each  be  begun  and 
finished  separately.  This  makes  no  difference  in  expense  or 
trouble.  A  smaller  vessel  and  smaller  quantity  of  lather  will 
suffice,  and  the  stuff  in  which  one  article  has  been  washed, 
would  do  no  good,  but  harm,  to  others ;  it  is,  in  fact,  good  for 
nothing. 

4.  Use  only  fresh  rain  water,  or  very  clear  river  water ;  rain 
is  preferable. 

5.  With  a  piece  of  sponge  or  old  flannel,  rub  up  a  very 
strong  lather  of  either  soft  soap  or  best  yellow  soap.  For  very- 
large,  greasy  things,  the  lather  may  be  made  of  ox-gall,  half  a 
pint  to  six  quarts  of  water,  whisked  up  with  a  handful  of  birch 
twigs  (like  that  old-fashioned  thing,  a  rod).  In  either  case,  the 
lather  may  be  prepared  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  the 
remainder  added,  boiling  hot,  the  moment  before  using  it.  The 
whole  should  be  as  hot  as  the  hand  can  bear  it ;  the  hotter  the 
better,  [f  the  articles  are  very  dirty,  two  lathers  will  be  re- 
quired in  succession  ;  and  unless  a  second  person  is  at  hand,  to 
rub  up  the  second  while  the  first  is  being  used,  both  had  better 
be  prepared  in  separate  vessels  before  the  wools  are  wetted, 
leaving  only  the  boiling  water  to-be  added. 

6.  Take  the  article  to  be  washed,  and  without  leaving  hold 
of  it,  keep  on  dipping  and  raising,  dipping  and  raising,  tor  two 
or  three  minutes.  By  that  time  the  lather  will  be  absorbed  by 
the  wool,  and  the  liquor  will  resemble  slimy  suds. 

7.  Squeeze  the  article  as  dry  as  may  be,  without  wring- 
ing it. 

8.  The  second  lather  having  been  brought  to  the  same  heat 
as  the  first,  proceed  in  the  same  manner,  dipping  and  raising. 
N.  B. — If  the  article  was  very  little  soiled,  and  after  the  first 
washing  appears  quite  clear  and  clean,  the  second  washing  may 
be  in  hot  water  without  soap.  W*hether  lather  or  water  only, 
a  blue-bag  may  be  slightly  drawn  through  before  the  second 
w^ashing.  Whtsn  gall  has  been  used,  a  third  washing  in  hot 
water  only,  will  be  required  to  take  off  the  smell. 

9.  Having  again  squeezed  the  article  as  dry  as  may  be,  for 
the  lighter  things,  such  as  shawls,  &c.,  spread  it  on  a  coarse  dry 
cloth,  pulling  it  out  to  its  proper  shape;  lay  over  it  another 
coarse  dry  cloth,  roll  the  whole  up  tightly,  and  let  it  remain 
half  an  hour.  This  rule  does  not  apply  to  large,  heavy  tilings* 
they  must  be  hung  out  at  once. 


FISH    AS    FOOD,    ETC.  365 

1332.  To  make  Soft  Soap. — Bore  some  holes  in  your  lye- 
barrel  ;  put  some  straw  in  the  bottom ;  lay  some  unslaked  lime 
on  it,  and  fill  your  barrel  with  good  hard-wood  ashes  ;  wet  it, 
and  pound  it  down  as  you  put  it  in.  When  full,  make  a  basin 
in  the  ashes  and  pour  in  water ;  keep  filling  it  as  it  sinks  in  the 
ashes.  In  the  course  of  a  few  hours  the  lye  will  begin  to  run. 
When  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity  to  begin  with,  put  your 
grease  in  a  large  iron  pot,  let  it  heat,  pour  in  the  lye,  let  it 
boil,  &;c.  Three  pounds  of  clean  grease  are  allowed  for  two 
gallons  of  soap. 


1333. —  Of  Fish  as  Food. — As  food,  fish  is  easier  of  diges- 
tion than  meats  are,  with  the  exception  of  salmon  ;  this  kind 
of  fish  is  extremely  hearty  food,  and  should  be  given  sparingly 
to  children,  and  used  cautiously  by  those  who  have  weak 
stomachs,  or  who  take  little  exercise. 

The  small  trout,  found  in  rivers,  are  the  most  delicate  and 
suitable  for  invalids  ;  lake  fish  are  also  excellent,  and  any  kind 
of  fresh-water  fish,  if  cooked  immediately  after  being  caught, 
are  always  health+ul. 

But  the  ocean  is  the  chief  dependence  for  the  fish-market, 
and  there  is  little  danger  (if  we  except  salmon  and  lobsters) 
that  its  kind  of  aliment  will,  in  our  country,  be  eaten  to  excess. 
It  would  be  better  for  the  health  of  those  who  do  not  labor,  if 
they  would  use  more  fish  and  less  flesh  for  food.  But  then  fish 
cannot  be  rendered  so  palatable,  because  it  does  not  admit  the 
variety  of  cooking  and  flavors  that  other  animal  food  does. 

Fish  is  much  less  nutritious  than  flesh.  The  white  kinds  oi 
fish,  cod,  haddock,  flounders,  white  fish,  &c.,  are  the  least  nu- 
tritious; the  oily  kinds,  salmon,  eels,  herrings,  <!k;c.,  are  more 
difficult  to  digest. 

Shell  fish  have  long  held  a  high  rank  as  restorative  food  ;  but 
a  well-dressed  chop  or  steak  is  much  better  to  recruit  the 
strength  and  spirits. 

Cod,  whitiiKj,  and  haddock,  are  better  for  being  a  little  salted, 
and  kept  one  day  before  cooking. 


1334. —  Of  Beef  as  Food, — Ox  beef  is  considered  the  best; 
heifer  beef  is  excellent  where  well  fed,  and  is  most  suitable  for 
small  families.  \i  you  want  the  best,  choose  that  which  has  a 
fine  smooth  grain — the  lean  of  a  bright  red  ;  the  fat  white  or 
nearly  so. 


363  MRS.  n ale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

The  best  roasting-piece  is  the  sirloin ;  then  the  first  three 
ribs — if  kept  till  they  are  quite  tender,  and  boned,  they  are 
nearly  equal  to  the  sirloin,  and  better  for  a  family  dinner^ 

The  round  is  used  for  alamode  beef,  and  is  the  best  piece  for 
corning. 

The  best  beef  steak  is  cut  from  the  inner  part  of  the  sirloin. 
Good  steak  may  be  cut  from  the  ribs. 

If  you  wish  to  practise  economy,  buy  the  chuck,  or  piece 
between  the  shoulder  and  the  neck  ;  it  makes  a  good  roast  or 
steak,  and  is  excellent  for  stewing  or  baking.  The  thick  part 
of  the  flank  is  also  a  profitable  piece ;  good  to  bake  or  boil,  or 
even  roast. 

The  leg  and  shin  of  beef  make  the  best  soup — the  heart  is 
profitable  meat,  and  good  broiled  or  roasted.  The  leg  raud  is 
used  for  mince  pies — it  needs  to  be  boiled  till  it  is  very  tender. 
The  tongue,  when  fresh,  is  a  rich  part  for  mince  pies.  If  eaten 
by  itself,  it  should  be  pickled  and  smoked. 


1335. —  Of  PorTc  as  Food, — Pork,  that  is  fed  from  the  dairy, 
and  fattened  on  corn,  is  the  best — potatoes  do  very  well  for 
part  of  the  feeding.  But  pork  fattened  from  the  still-house  is 
all  but  poisonous;  it  should  never  be  eaten  by  those  who  wish 
to  preserve  their  health. 

The  oflflils,  &c.,  with  which  pork  in  the  vicinity  of  a  city  is 
fattened,  make  it  unsavory  and  unwholesome.  Such  stuff 
should  be  used  for  manure,  and  never  given  as  food  to  animals, 
whose  flesh  is  to  be  eaten  by  man. 

When  pork  is  good,  the  flesh  looks  very  white  and  smooth, 
and  the  fat  white  and  fine.  Hogs  tw^o  years  old  make  the  best 
— older  than  that,  their  flesh  is  apt  to  be  rank.  Measly  pork 
js  very  unwholesome,  and  never  should  be  eaten.  It  may  be 
known,  as  the  fat  is  filled  with  small  kernels. 

When  the  rind  is  thick  and  tough,  and  cannot  easily  be  im- 
pressed with  the  finger,  the  pork  is  old,  and  will  require  more 
cooking. 

If  pork  is  not  cooked  enough,  it  is  disagreeable  and  almost 
indigestible;  it  should  never  be  eaten  unless  it  is  thoroughly 
done. 

The  fat  parts  of  pork  are  not  ver}^  healthy  food.  Those  who 
labor  hard  may  feel  no  inconvenience  from  this  diet;  but  chil- 
dren should  never  eat  it;  nor  is  it  healthy  fur  the  delicate  and 
sedentary.     Fat  pork  seems  more  proper  as  material  for  frying 


HINTS    ON    DIET,    ETC?.  gg^ 

fish  and  other  meats,  and  as  a  garnish,  than  to  be  cooked  and 
eaten  by  itself.  It  is  best  and  least  apt  to  prove  injurious  dur- 
ing the  cold  weather. 


"to 


1336.  Of  Mutton, — Mutton  is  best  from  August  till  January. 
It  is  nutritious,  and  often  agrees  better  than  any  other  meat 
with  weak  stomachs.  To  have  it  tender,  it  must  be  kept  as 
long  as  possible  w^ithout  injury.  Be  sure  and  cook  it  till  it  is 
done ;  the  gravy  that  runs  when  the  meat  is  cut,  should  never 
show  the  least  tinge  of  blood. 


1337.  Of  using  Gravies, — Make  it  a  general  rule  never  to 
pour  gravy  over  any  thing  that  is  roasted  ;  by  so  doing,  the 
dredging,  &c.,  is  washed  off,  and  it  eats  insipid. 


SOME  HINTS  ON  DIET,  EXERCISE,  AND  ECONOMY 

1338.  Meat  for  Children, — Lamb,  veal,  and  fowls  are  deli- 
cate and  healthy  diet  for  the  young  and  sedentary  ;  and  for  all 
who  find  fat  meats  and  those  of  coarse  fibre  do  not  agree  with 
them. 


1339.  Uconomicals  of  Cooking  Meats. — The  most  economical 
way  of  cooking  meat  is  to  boil  it,  if  the  liquid  be  used  for  soup 
or  broth,  as  it  always  ought  to  be. 

Baking  is  one  of  the  cheapest  ways  of  dressing  a  dinner  in 
small  flirnilies,  and  several  kinds  of  meat  are  excellent,  done  in 
this  way.  Legs  and  loins  of  pork,  legs  of  mutton,  and  fillets 
of  veal  will  bake  to  much  advantage;  especially  if  they  be  fat. 
Never  bake  a  lean,  thin  piece  ;  it  will  all  shrivel  away.  Such 
pieces  should  always  be  boiled  or  miade  into  soup.  Pigs,  geese, 
and  the  buttock  of  beef  are  all  excellent  baked.  Meat  always 
loses  in  weight  by  being  cooked. — In  roasting,  the  loss  is  the 
greatest.  It  also  costs  more  in  fuel  to  roast  than  to  boil — still 
there  are  many  pieces  of  meat  which  seem  made  for  roasting ; 
and  it  would  be  almost  wrong  to  cook  them  in  any  other  way. 
Those  who  cannot  afford  to  roast  their  meat,  should  not  pur- 
chase the  sirloin  of  beef  Stewing  meat  is  an  excellent  and 
economical  mode  of  cookery. 


1340.  Butter  as  Diet, — Butter,  when  new  and  sweet,  is  nu- 
tritious,  and,  in  our  climate,  generally  healthy  ;  during  the 


368  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

winter,  when  made  very  salt,  it  is  not  a  good  article  of  diet  foi 
some  people. 


1341.  Condiments, — Pepper,  ginger,  and  most  of  the  condi- 
ments, are  best  during  summer;  they  are  productions  of  hot 
climates,  which  shows  them  to  be  most  appropriate  for  the  hot 
season.  On  the  other  hand,  fat  beef,  bacon,  and  those  kinds  ot 
food  we  denominate  ''  hearty,"  should  be  most  freely  used 
during  cold  weather. 

1342.  Eat  Sloivly, — Eat  slowly.  One  of  the  most  usual 
causes  of  dyspepsia  among  our  business  men,  arises  from  the 
haste  in  which  they  swallow  their  food  without  sufficiently 
chewing  it,  and  then  hurry  away  to  their  active  pursuits.  In 
England  very  little  business  is  transacted  after  dinner.  There 
ought  to  be,  at  least,  one  hour  of  quiet  after  a  full  meal,  from 
those  pursuits  which  tax  the  brain,  as  well  as  those  which  exer- 
cise the  muscles. 


1343.  Of  Breakfast. — Persons  of  a  delicate  constitution 
should  never  exercise  much  before  breakfast. 

If  exposure  of  any  kind  is  to  be  incurred  in  the  morning, 
breakfast  should  always  be  taken  previously.  The  system  is 
more  susceptible  of  infection  and  of  the  influence  of  cold, 
miasma,  &;c.,  in  the  morning  before  eating,  than  at  any  other 
time. 

Those  who  walk  early  will  find  great  benefit  from  taking  a 
cracker  or  some  little  nourishment  before  going  out. 

Never  go  into  a  room  of  a  morning,  where  a  person  is  sick 
with  a  fever,  before  you  have  taken  nourishment  of  some  kind 
— a  cup  of  coffee,  at  least. 

In  setting  out  early  to  travel,  a  light  breakfast  before  start- 
ing siiould  always  be  taken;  it  is  a  great  protection  against 
cold,  fatigue  and  exhaustion. 

In  boarding  schools  for  the  young  and  growing,  early  break- 
fast is  an  indispensable  condition  to  health.  Children  sHould 
not  be  kept  without  food  in  the  morning  till  they  are  faint  and 
weary. 


1344.   Of  Supper, — Never  eat  a  hearty  supper  just  before 
retiring  to  rest. 


HINTS    OX    DIET,    ETC.  369 

Food  should  never  be  eaten  when  it  Is  hot — bread  is  very 
unhealthy,  eaten  in  this  way. 

1345.  Of  Dinner, — It  is  injurious  to  eat  when  greatly  heated 
or  fatigued.  It  would  very  much  conduce  to  the  health  of  la- 
boring men,  if  they  could  rest  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before 
dinner. 

The  diet  should  always  be  more  spare,  with  a  larger  propor- 
tion of  vegetables  and  ripe  fruits,  during  s-ummer.  Fruits  are 
most  wholesome  in  their  appropriate  season.  The  skins,  stones, 
and  seeds,  are  indigestible. 

Rich  soups  are  injurious  to  the  dyspeptic.  Much  liquid  food 
is  rarely  beneficial  for  adults  ;  but  a  small  quantity  of  plain, 
nourishing  soup  is  an  economical  and  healthy  beginning  of  a 
family  dinner. 

Meats  should  always  be  sufficiently  cooked.  It  is  a  savage 
custom  to  eat  n>eat  in  a  half-raw -hall-roasted  state,  and  only  a 
very  strong  stomach  can  digest  it. 

Eich  gravies  should  be  avoided,  especially  in  the  summer 
season.  

1346. — Of  Drinks. — Most  people  drink  too  much,  because 
they  drink  too  fast.  A  wine-glass  of  water,  sipped  slowly,  will 
quench  the  thirst  as  effectually  as  a  pint  swallowed  at  a  draught. 
When  too  much  is  taken  at  meals,  especially  at  dinner,  it  hin- 
ders digestion.  Better  drink  little  during  the  meal,  and  then, 
if  thirsty  an  hour  or  two  afterwards,  more.  The  practice  ot 
taking  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee  soon  after  dinner  is  a  good  one,  if 
the  beverage  be  not  drank  too  strong  or  loo  hot. 

Dyspeptic  people  should  be  careful  to  take  but  a  small  xjuan- 
tity  of  drink.  Children  require  more,  in  proportion  to  their 
food,  than  adults.  But  it  is  very  injurious  to  them  to  allow  a 
habit  of  continual  drinking  as  you  find  in  some  children.  It 
greatly  weakens  the  stomach,  and  renders  them  irritable  and 
peevish. 

The  morning  meal  requires  to  be  lighter  and  of  a  more  fluid 
nature  than  any  other.  Children  should  always,  if  possible  to 
be  obtained,  take  milk — as  a  substitute,  during  the  winter,  ^ood 
gruel  with  bread,  or  water,  sweetened  with  molasses,  is  healthy. 
Never  give  children  tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate  with  their  meals. 

Coffee   affords   very  little  nourishment,  and  is  apt,  if  diank 
strong,  to  occasion   tremors  of  the   nerves.     It  is   very  bad  foi 
bilious  constitutions.     'J'he  calm,  phlegmatic  temperament  can 
24 


370  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for.  the  million 

bear  it.  With  a  good  supply  of  cream  and  sugar,  drank  in 
moderation,  by  those  who  exei-cise  much  and  take  considerable 
solid  food,  it  may  be  used  without  much  danger. 

Strong  green  tea  relaxes  the  tone  of  the  stomach,  and  excites 
the  nervous  system.  Persons  of  delicate  constitution  are  al- 
most sure  to  be  injured  by  it.  Black  tea  is  much  less  delete- 
rious. If  used  with  milk  and  sugar,  it  may  be  considered 
healthy  for  most  people. 

Chocolate,  when  it  agrees  with  the  constitution,  is  very  nutri- 
tious and  healthy.  But  it  seldom  can  be  used  steadily  except 
by  aged  persons  who  are  very  active.  It  agrees  best  with  per- 
sons of  phlegmatic  temperament ;  and  is  more  healthy  in  the 
winter  season  than  during  warm  weather. 

No  kind  of  beverage  should  be  taken  hot — it  injures  the 
teeth  and  impairs  digestion. 

134T.  A  few  Rules  for  Health. — Rise  early.  Eat  simple 
food.  Take  plenty  of  exercise.  Never  fear  a  little  fatigue. 
Let  not  children  be  dressed  in  tight  clothes;  it  is  necessary 
their  limbs  and  muscles  should  have  full  play,  if  you  wish  for 
either  health  or  beauty.  Wash  yQvy  often,  and  rub  the  skin 
thoroughly  with  a  coarse  towel. 

Wash  the  eyes  in  cold  water  every  morning.  Do  not  read 
or  sew  at  twilight,  or  by  too  dazzling  a  light.  If  far-sighted, 
read  with  rather  less  light,  and  with  the  book  somewhat  nearer 
to  the  eye,  than  you  desire.  If  near-sighted,  read  with  a  book 
as  far  off' as  possible.  'Both  these  imperfections  may  be  dimin- 
ished in  this  way. 

Clean  teeth  in  pure  water  two  or  three  times  a  day ;  but, 
above  all,  be  sure  to  have  them  clean  before  you  go  to  bed. 

Have  your  bed-chamber  well  aired  ;  and  have  fresh  bed  linen 
fiw^ry  week.  Never  have  the  wind  blowing  directly  upon 
you  from  open  windows  during  the  night.,  it  is  not  healthy  to 
aletip  in  heated  rooms. 

Wear  shoes  that  are  large  enough.  It  not  only  produces 
corns,  but  makes  the  feet  misshapen  to  cramp  them. 

Avoid  the  necessity  of  a  physician,  if  you  can,  by  careful  at- 
tention to  your  diet.  Eat  what  best  agrees  with  your  system, 
and  resolutely  abstain  from  what  hurts  you,  however  well  you 
may  like  it.  A  few  days'  abstinence,  and  cold  water  for  a 
beverage,  with  cold  or  warm  bathing,  as  the  case  may  require, 
have  driven  olf  many  an  appioach.ng  disease. 


.  EMEDIES,   ETC  3^ 

If  you  find  yourself  really  ill,  send  for  a  good  physician. 
Have  nothing  to  do  with  quacks;  and  do  not  tamper  with 
quack  medicines.  You  do  not  know  what  they  are  ;  and  what 
security  have  you  that  they  know  what  they  are  1 

1348.  A  few  Remedies  for  Sickness. — The  a^ue  may  be  ren 
dered  milder  by  the  timely  use  of  an  emetic,  given  one  hour 
before  the  fit  is  expected  to  return.  For  this  purpose,  one 
scruple  of  ipecacuanha  may  be  given  in  an  ounce  of  water. 
After  each  return  of  vomiting,  give  half  a  pint  of  tepid  chamo- 
mile tea,  which  may  be  repeated  three  or  four  times,  -but  not 
oftener.  When  the  disease  has  continued  for  some  days,  and 
the  force  of  the  fever  is  weakened  by  emetics,  give  to  an  adult 
the  following  preparation  of  bark  : — 

Take  of  Peruvian  bark,  in  fine  powder,  one  ounce  ;  port  wine, 
one  quart;  mix  them,  and  let  them  stand  together  for  twelve 
hours.  Shake  the  bottle,  and  give  four  large  spoonsful  imme-^ 
diately  after  the  hot  stage  of  the  disorder,  repeating  it  every 
second  hour  till  the  whole  be  taken  ;  unless  the  coming  on  of 
the  next  ague-fit  should  require  its  suspension. 

^1349.  Hysteric  Affeclions, — So  numerous  and  various  are  the 
symptoms  said  to  belong  to  this  disease,  that  it  becomes  diffi- 
cult to  mark  its  peculiar  character.  It  is  frequently  described 
%y  the  patient,  as  a  round  body  moving  in  the  bowels,  ascend- 
ing to  the  stomach,  and  from  thence  affecting  the  throat  with  a 
sense  of  stricture,  threatening  suffocation.  The  patient  also 
complains  of  palpitation,  a  costive  habit,  cold  feet  and  legs,  &;c. 
To  counteract  the  force  of  these  attacks,  the  bowels  should  be 
kept  open  by  the  following  aperient  mixture : — 

Take  of  infusion  of  senna,  one  ounce  and  a  half;  tincture  of 
senna,  tincture  of  cardamoms,  of  each  half  mi  ounce.  Three 
large  spoonsful  to  be  taken  occasionally. 

The  feet  and  legs  should  be  kept  warm,  the  head  cool ;  the 
diet  should  consist  chiefly  of  animal  food  of  easy  digestion,  as 
beef  or  mutton ;  avoiding  vegetables  and  malt  liquor,  indeed 
everything  that  has  a  tendency  to  generate  flatulency.  As  a 
beverage,  weak  brandy  and  water,  toast  and  water,  tea  or  cof- 
fee, whichever  suits  the  palate  of  the  patient,  may  be  freely 
used.  Much  depends  on  the  cause — as  that  varies,  so  must  the 
treatment.  A  dash  of  cold  ivater  on  the  face  loill  frequently  jyui 
an  end  to  the  paroxysm. 


372  MRS.  iiale's  receipts  for  the  million 

1350.  Mumps  are  sometimes  epidemic  and  manifestly  con- 
tagious ;  they  come  on  with  shivering  and  a  sense  of  coldness, 
followed  by  an  increased  heat,  and  a  considerable  enlargement 
of  the  glands  on  each  side  the  neck,  below  the  ear,  near  to  the 
angle  of  the  jaw-bone.  This  swalling  continues  to  increase 
until  tiie  fourth  or  fifth  day,  when  it  gradually  subsides  ;  but 
before  it  entirely  disappears,  it  often  happens  that  other  tumors 
take  place  in  the  breasts  of  women,  to  which  the  male  sex  are 
also  subject  in  different  parts  of  the  body. 

They  are  more  or  less  painful,  but  commonly  run  their 
course  without  any  alarming  symptoms,  and  therefore  scarcely 
require  any  remedies.  This  entirely  depends  on  good  nursing  ; 
care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  exposure  to  cold  air,  and  no  ap- 
plication should  be  used  except  a  slight  additional  covering, 
fomentations,  liniments,  blisters,  and  whatever  may  have  a 
tendency  to  check  the  regular  process  of  this  disease,  may 
occasion  a  sudden  determination  to  the  brain,  and  prove  fatal 
to  the  patient. 

A  spare  diet,  gentle  laxative  medicines,  and  a  free  use  of 
weak  diluting  liquors,  are  the  best  means  to  be  employed  ; 
these,  with  a  well-regulated  temperature,  will  generally  guard 
off  the  secondary  tumors.  Bnt  when  the  disease  has  been  im- 
properly managed,  and  a  determination  to  any  vital  part 
brought  on,  send  for  the  physician. 


1351.  Measles  frequently  assume  aa  alarming  character,  too 
much  so  to  entitle  them  to  a  place  in  the  list  of  common  casual- 
ties. They  are  at  all  times  too  serious  to  be  left,  with  safety, 
in  the  hands  of  the  domestic  practitioner.  Medical  aid,  there- 
fore, should  be  instantly  sought  for,  as  much  depends  on  proper 
management  during  the  first  stage  of  th^  fever.  The  approach 
of  this  disease  may  be  known,  by  attending  to  the  symptoms 
which  precede  the  eruption,  in  the  following  order :  First,  the 
patient  complains  of  shivering,  with  a  sense  of  coldness,  a  thin 
watery  discharge  from  the  nose,  hoarseness,  cough,  and  a  con- 
tinued flow  of  tears  from  the  eyes,  which  appear  red  and 
inflamed.  These  symptoms  continue  to  increase  in  violence, 
until  the  eruption  is  completed,  when  thev  gradually  subside. 
As  this  disorder  has  frequently  a  putrid  tendency,  which  can 
only  be  counteracted  by  the  scientific  skill  of  the  physician,  and 
which,  if  neglected,  or  improperly  treated,  proves  fatal,,  there 
CAin  be  no  excuse  for  not  calling  for  his  aid  at  the  commence 


REMEDIES  ETC,  373 

meiit  of  the  attack.  But  that  no  time  may  be  lost,  should 
there  be  no  physician  present,  an  emetic  of  some  gentle  kind 
may  be  given  and  repeated  every  half  hour  till  vomiting  be 
excited.  If  it  should  not  act  on  the  oowels,  take  mild  aperient 
medicine  every  fourth  hour ;  but  this  is  not  to  be  repeated  after 
a  motion  has  been  procured.  The  patient  should  be  kept  in  an 
equal  temperature,  near  sixty-four  degrees  of  Fahrenheit*,  if 
exposed  to  a  higher  degree  of  heat,  the  fever  might  be  increased ; 
if  to  a  lower  temperature,  the  cough  and  hoarseness  would  be 
aggravated*  Wine,  or  wine  and  wa*er,  and  all  other  fermented 
liquors  must  be  avoided.  Toast  and  water,  barley  water,  ap 
pie-water,  rennet  whey,  tamarind  tea,  coffee,  tea,  or  any  other 
weak  diluting  beverage,  may  be  freely  used,  provided  they  are 
of  an  equal  warmth  to  milk  when  drawn  from  the  cow;  also, 
weak  lemonade. 


1352.  Soothing  Beverage  for  a  Cough^  after  Measles, — Two 
ounces  of  figs,  two  ounces  of  raisins,  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  liquorice-root.  Boil-  them  together  in  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  water,  and  strain  off  the  liquor.  A  tea-cupful 
to  be  taken  night  and  morning. 


1353.  Costiveness  may  be  relieved  by  a  change  of  diet,  exer- 
cise on  horseback,  or  any  other  exercise  in  the  open  air,  or  by 
taking  one  of  the  following  pills  an  hour  before  dinner : — 

Take  of  Socotrine  aloes,  thirty  grains ;  gum  mastic,  ten 
grains ;  oil  of  wormwood,  one  drop  ;  tincture  of  aloes,  a  sufficient 
quantity  to  form  the  ingredients  into  a  mass,  which  must  be 
divided  into  twelve  pills. 

This  is  an  excellent  dyspeptic  pill^  and  will  afford  great  relief 
in  all  cases  of  weak  digestion, 

1354.  Remedies  for  Dysentery, — Black  or  green  tea,  steeped 
in  boiling  milk,  seasoned  with  nutmeg,  and  best  of  loaf-sugar, 
is  excellent  for  the  dysentery.  Cork  burnt  to  charcoal,  about 
as  big  as  a  hazel-nut,  macerated,  and  put  in  a  tea-spoonful  of 
brandy,  with  a  little  loaf  sugar  and  nutmeg,  is  very  efiicacious 
in  cases  of  dysentery  and  cholera-morbus.  If  nutmeg  be  want- 
ing, peppermint-water  may  be  used.  Flannel  wet  with  brandy, 
powdered  with  Cayenne  pepper,  and  laid  upon  the  bowels, 
affords  great  relief  in  cases  of  extreme  distress. 


3T4  MliS.   bale's    receipts    for    the    MILL105f. 

1355.  Another  JRemedt,, — Dissolve  as  much  table-salt  in  keen 
vinegar  as  will  ferment  and  work  clear.  When  the  foam  h 
discharged,  cork  it  up  in  a  bottle,  and  put  it  away  for  use.  A 
large  spoonful  of  this,  in  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  is  very  effica- 
cious in  cases  of  dysentery  and  colic. 

1356.  Loss  of  Appetite,— This  is  generally  symptomatic,  and 
varies  according  to  the  occasional  cause.  The  continued  use 
of  warm  tea,  of  wine,  or  other  spirituous  liquors,  diluted  with 
warm  water,  or  the  use  of  warm  water  alone,  if  long  continued, 
will  occasion  a  relaxed  state  of  the  muscular  coat  of  the  sto- 
mach. This  organ  also  suffers  from  anxiety  of  mind,  a  seden- 
tary life,  or  a  costive  habit;  from  these  and  other  causes  it 
becomes  weakened,  irritable,  and  incapable  of  digesting  the 
most  simple  food.  To  restore  the  tone  of  the  stomach,  first 
give  this  emetic : — 

Take  of  ipecacuanha,  in  fine  powder,  one  scruple;  horse-radish 
tea,  two  ounces.  Mix  them  together.  Between  the  times  of 
the  operation,  half  a  pint  of  horse-radish  tea  should  be  drank, 
but  not  repeated  oftener  than  twice  or  thrice.  Afterwards 
keep  the  bowels  regular  by  the  following  aperient  pills: — 

Take,  rhubarb,  in  fine  powder,  carbonated  kali,  of  each  thirty 
grains;  ginger,  in  fine  powder,  one  scruple  ;  balsam  of  Peru,  a 
sufficient  quantity  to  form  a  mass;  divide 4t  into  twenty-four 
pills.      Dose,  three  or  four  every  other  night,  at  bed-time. 

At  the  same  time,  to  restore  the  tone  of  the  digestive  organs, 
the  following  decoction  should  be  taken  : — 

Take  of  Peruvian  bark,  six  drachms  ;  Cascarilla  bark,  two 
drachms.  Bruise  them  in  a  mortar,  and  boil  them  in  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water  for  a  few  minutes;  strain  off  the  liquor 
while  hot,  then  add. tincture  of  bark,  two  ounces;  diluted  nitric 
acid,  a  drachm  and  a  half.  Dose,  four  large  spoonsful,  three 
times  a  day. 

1357.  Cramp  and  Spasm. — It  frequently  happens  that  per^ 
sons  are  extremely  annoyed  by  cramp  during  the  night,  which 
may  be  relieved  by  the  following  tincture : — 

Take  of  tincture  of  opium,  two  drachms  ;  ether,  half  an 
ounce.  Mix  them  together,  and  take  thirty  or  forty  drops  ev- 
ery night,  at  bed-time. 

1358.  How  to  apply  Blisters. — A  considerable  degree  of  pain 
and  inflammation  often  follows  the  application  of  blisters,  which 


IIJEMEDIES,    RECEIPTS,    ETC.  375 

may  be  obviated,  by  covering  the  blister-plaster  with  very  thin 
muslin,  which  will  prevent  any  part  of  it  remaining  on  the  skin, 
after  the  removal  of  the  blister.  The  muslin  should  be  pressed 
down,  and  rubbed  with  the  finger  upon  the  surface  of  the  blis- 
ter-plaster. 


1359.  Mustard  Plasters — Should  be  covered  with  muslin, 
or  the  poultice  put  in  a  cloth  bag,  before  being  applied  to  the 
skin. 


1360.  To  prevent  Lock-jaw, — Immerse  the  part  injured  in 
strong  lye,  as  warm  as  can  be  borne.  But  first,  as  in  all  cases 
of  wounds,  apply  spirits  of  turpentine  on  lint. 

1361.  For  a  Stiff  Joint, — An  ointment  made  from  the  com- 
mon ground- worms,  which  boys  dig  to  bait  fishes,  rubbed  on 
with  the  hand,  is  said  to  be  excellent,  when  the  sinews  are 
drawn  up  by  disease  or  from  a  sprain. 


1362.  Easy  Method  of  curing  the  Scurvy, — The  root  of  the 
garden  carrot  abounds  in  a  nutritious  saccharine  juice,  and  is 
slightly  aromatic.  The-se  are  desirable  properties  against  the 
scurvy.  To  experience  the  good  effects  of  these  properties,  the 
roots  must  he  eaten  raw.  There  is  nothing  unpleasant  in  this  ; 
on  the  contrary,  it  is  what  the  common  people. often  do  by 
choice.  These  roots  would  keep  well  during  the  longest  voy- 
age, packed  up  in  casks,  having  the  interstices  filled  with 
sand.  Each  sailor  might  be  allowed  to  eat  one  root  every  day, 
or  every  other  day,  according  to  the  state  of  their  health,  and 
the  quantity  of  roots  on  board. 

1363.  To  make  Oliver^  or  Goose-grass  Ointment ;  remarkable 
for  its  salutary  effects  in  canes  of  inveterate  Scurvy, — To  a  pound 
of  hog's-lard  melted,  without  spice  or  salt,  put  as  much  clivers 
as  the  lard  will  moisten,  and  boil  them  together  over  a  slow 
fire;  after  stirring  it  till  it  becomes  a  little  brown,  strain  it 
through  a  cloth  ;  and  when  cold,  take  the  ointment  from  the 
water  that  will  remain  at  the  bottom,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


1364.  Easy  Metliod  of  attracting  Ear- wigs  from  the  Ear. — A 
person  lately  having  an  earwig  crept  into  his  ear,  and  knowing 
the  peculiar  fondness  that  insect  has  to  apples,  immediately  ap- 


oT6  MKs.  male's  receipts  Foa  the  millioa. 

plied  a  piece  of  apple  to  the  ear,  which  enticed  the  creature  cut, 
and  thereby  prevented  the  alarming  consequences  which  might 
have  otherwise  ensued. 


1365.  Simple  remedies  for  Scarlet  Fever, — Open  the  bowels 
regularly  every  day,  with  some  mild  aperient  medicine,  such  as 
castor  oil,  senna,  etc.,  and  keep  the  patient  at  rest,  and  comfort 
ably  warm ;  sponge  the  surface  with  tepid  water,  two  or  three 
times  a  day  ;  while  it  is  hotter  than  natural,  admit  fi'esh  air; 
live  on  a  bland  diet,  such  as  a  cup  full  of  arrow-root,  several 
times  a  day  ;  toast-water  for  common  drink.  Gargle  made  of 
strong  sage  tea,  honey  and  alum,  or  borax,  may  be  used  from 
the  commencement,  if  the  throat  is  affected."— i)r.  T.  P. 
Hereford, 

1366.  The  French  Method  of  making  Whey. — Mix  together 
equal  parts  of  best  vinegar  and  cold  water ;  a  table-spoonful  of 
each  will  suffice  for  a  pint  of  milk.  It  is  not,  however,  all  to 
be  put  in,  whether  necessary  or  not;  but  when  the  milk  just 
boils,  pour  in  just  as  much  of  the  acid  as  will  turn  it,  and  no 
more.  Beat  up  together  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg,  which 
boil  up  in  the  whey.  Then  set  it  aside  till  quite  clear.  Pour 
it  off  very  steadily  through  a  muslin  strainer.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  with  loaf-sugar.  This  whey  is  very  pleasant,  and  answers 
every  good  purpose  of  white  wine  whey,  while  it  is  not  liable 
to  the  objection  of  being  heating,  and  is  also  very  much  less 
expensive. 


1367.  Calves'' -feet  Jelly. — Take  two  calves'  feet,  and  add  to 
them  one  gallon  of  water ;  which  reduce,  by  boiling,  to  one 
quart.  Strain  it,  and  when  cold  skim  the  fat  entirely  off.  Add 
to  this  tlib  white  of  six  or  eight  eggs,  well  beaten,  half  a  pint 
of  wine,  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  the  juice  of  four  lemons, 
and  let  them  be  well  mixed.  Boil  the  whole  for  a  few^  min- 
utes, stirring  it  constantly,  and  then  pass  it  through  a  flannel 
strainer. 

This  forms  a  very  nutritious  article  of  diet  for  the  sick  and 
convalescent.  When  it  is  desired,  the  wine  can  be  omitted. — 
F:Uis. 


1368.  Chicken  Water. — Take  half  a  chicken,  divested  of  all 
fat,  and  break  the  bones ;  add  to  this  half  a  gallon  of  water, 
find  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.     Season  with  salt. 


NOURISHMENT,    KTO.  3t7 

This  was  freely  employed  by  the  late  Dr.  Parrish  in  cholera 
at  its  commencement.  Taken  warm,  it  produces  vomiting,  and 
washes  out  the  stomach. 


1369.  Essence  of  Beef, — Put  into  a  porter  bottle  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  lean  beef,  sliced,  to  fill  up  its  body,  cork  it  with  a 
paper  stopple,  and  place  it  in  a  pot  of  cold  water,  attaching  the 
neck,  by  means  of  a  string,  to  the  handle  of  the  vessel.  Boil 
this  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  pour  off  the  liquor,  and 
skim  it.     To  this  preparation  may  be  added  spices  and  salt. 

1370.  A  very  reviving  Odor, — Fill  with  recently  gathered, 
and  dried  lavender-flowers,  stripped  from  their  stalks,  small 
wide-necked  scent-bottles,  and  just  cover  them  with  strong 
acetic  acid.  A  morsel  of  camphor,  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut,  may 
be  added,  with  advantage,  to  the  lavender,  in  each  bottle. 
Sound,  new,  and  closely  fitting  corks  should  be  used,  to  secure 
the  mixture  from  the  air.  It  is  exceedingly  refreshing  and 
wholesome,  and  has  often  proved  very  acceptable  to  invalids. 
The  lavender  should  be  gathered  for  it  before  it  is  quite  fully 
blown. 


1371.  Easy  Method  of  obtaining  Water  in  almost  any  situa- 
tion,— The  ground  must  be  perforated  by  a  borer.  In  the  per- 
foration is  placed  a  wooden  pipe,  which  is  driven  down  with  a 
mallet,  after  which  the  boring  is  continued,  that  the  pipe  may 
be  driven  still  farther.  In  proportion  as  the  cavity  of  the 
borer  becomes  loaded,  it  is  drawn  up  and  emptied  ;  and  in 
time,  by  the  addition  of  new  portions  of  wooden  pipe,  the 
boring  is  carried  to  any  depth,  and  water  is  generally  obtained. 

1372.  Method  of  Draining  Ponds  in  Level  Grounds, — At  a 
certain  distance  below  the  surface  of  the  earth,  there  sometimes 
is  a  stratum  of  loose  sand,  which  freely  admits  the  passage  of 
water.  This  stratum  is  at  various  depths,  in  different  eleva- 
tions ;  but  it  will  be  generally  found,  that  lands  most  subject 
to  stagnant  ponds  have  but  a  shallow  stratum  of  clay  over  the 
sand.  All  tiiat  is  necessary,  therefore,  is  to  dig  a  pit  in  the 
bottom  of  the  pond,  till  you  arrive  at  this  stratum  of  sand, 
when  the  water  will  be  immediately  absorbed,  and  the  pond 
emptied. 


o'lS  MKS.    male's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLIUA\ 

1373.  To  pi^eserve  Fishing-rods, — Oil  your  rods,  in  summer, 
with  linseed  oil,  drying  them  in  the  sun,  and  taking  care  the 
parts  lie  flat:  they  sliould  be  often  turned,  to  prevent  them 
from  warping.  This  will  render  them  tough,  and  prevent  their 
being  worm-eaten ;  in  time  they  will  acquire  a  beautiful  brown 
color.  Should  they  get  wet,  which  swells  the  wood,  and  makes 
it  fast  in  the  sockets,  turn  the  part  round  over  the  flame  of  a 
candle  a  short  time,  and  it  will  be  easily  set  at  liberty. 


1374.  To  gild  Letters  on  Vellum  or  Paper, — Letters  written 
on  vellum  or  paper  are  gilded  in  three  ways;  in  the  first,  a  lit- 
tle size  is  mixed  with  the  ink,  and  the  letters  are  written  as 
usustl ;  when  they  are  dry,  a  slight  degree  of  stickiness  is  pro- 
duced by  breathing  on  them,  upon  which  the  gold  leaf  is  imme- 
diately applied,  and  by  a  little  pressure  may  be  made  to  adhere 
with  sufficient  firmness.  In  the  second  method,  some  white- 
lead  or  chalk  is  ground  up  with  strong  size,  and  the  letters  are 
made  with  this  by  means  of  a  brush  ;  when  the  mixture  is 
almost  dry,  the  gold  leaf  may  be  laid  on,  and  afterwards  bur- 
nished. The  last  method  is  to  mix  up  some  gold  powder  with 
size,  and  make  the  letters  of  this  by  means  of  a  brush. 


1375.  To  make  Pounce. — Gum-sandarac,  powdered  and  sifted 
very  fine,  will  produce  an  excellent  preventive  to  keep  ink  from 
sinking  in  the  paper  after  you  have  had  occasion  to  scratch  out 
any  part  of  the  writing. 


1376.  Another  Method, — Cuttle-fish  bone,  properly  dried,  one 
ounce  ;  best  rosin,  one  ounce  ;  and  the  same  quantity  of  burnt 
alum,  well  incorporated  together,  will  make  very  good  pounce 
equal,  if  not  superior,  to  any  bought  at  the  shops. 


1377.  To  cut  Glass, — Take  a  red-hot  shank  of  a  tobacco-pipe, 
lay  it  on  the  edge  of  your  glass,  which  will  then  begin  to  crack  ; 
then  draw^  the  shank  end  a  little  gently  before,  and  it  will  fol- 
low any  way  you  draw  your  hand. 


1378.  Mrs.  Hooker'' s  Method  of  preparing  and  applying  a 
Comj^osltion  for  Painting-  in  Imitation  of  the  Ancient  Grecian 
Manner, — Put  into  a  glazed  earthen  vessel  four  ounces  and  a 
half  of  gum  arable,  and  eight  xjunces,  or  half  a  pint  (wine  mea- 
sure) of  cold  spring  water  ;  when  the  gum  is  dissolved,  stir  in 


GKECIAN    FAINT,    KTC.  379 

jeven  Dunces  of  gum-mastic,  which  has  been  washed,  dried, 
picked,  and  beaten  fine.  Set  the  earthen  vessel  containing  the 
gum-water  and  gum-mastic  over  a  slow  fire,  continually  stirring 
and  beating  them  hard  with  a  spoon,  in  order  to  dissolve  the 
gum-mastic;  when  sufficiently  boiled,  it  will  no  longer  appear 
transparent,  but  will  become  opaque  and  stiff,  like  a  paste.  As 
soon  as  this  is  the  case,  and  the  gum-water  and  mastic  are  quite 
boiling,  without  taking  them  off  the  fire,  add  five  ounces  of 
white  wax,  broken  into  small  pieces,  stirring  and  heating  the 
different  ingredients  together,  till  the  wax  is  perfectly  melted, 
and  has  boiled.  Then  take  the  composition  off  the  fire,  as  boil- 
ing it  longer  than  necessary  would  only  harden  the  wax,  and 
prevent  its  mixing  so  well  afterwards  with  water.  When  the 
composition  is  taken  off  the  fire,  and  in  the  glazed  earthen  ves- 
sel, it  should  be  beaten  hard,  and  whilst  hot  (but  not  boiling) 
mix  with  il,  by  degrees,  a  pint  (wine  measure)  or  sixteen 
ounces  more  of  cold  spring  water ;  then  strain  the  composition, 
as  some  dirt  will  boil  out  of  the  gum-mastic,  and  put  it  into 
bottles.  The  composition,  if  properly  made,  should  be  like  a 
ci*eam,and  the  colors  when  mixed  with  it  as  smooth  as  with  oil. 
The  method  of  using  it,  is  to  mix  with  the  composition,  upon  an 
earthen  pallet,  such  colors  in  powder,  as  are  used  in  painting 
with  oil,  and  such  a  quantity  of  the  composition  to  be  mixed 
with  the  colors  as  to  render  them  of  the  usual  consistency  of 
oil  colors  ;  then  paint  with  fair  water.  The  colors,  when  mixed 
with  the  composition,  may  be  laid  on  either  thick  or  thin,  as 
may  best  suit  your  subject;  on  which  account,  this  composition 
is  very  advantageous,  where  any  particular  transparency  of 
coloring  is  required ;  but  in  most  cases  it  answers  best  if  the 
colors  be  laid  on  thick,  and  they  require  the  same  use  of  the 
brush  as  if  painting  with  body  colors,  and  the  same  brushes  as 
used  in  oil  painting.  The  col(*rs,  if  ground  dry,  when  mixed 
with  the  composition,  may  be  used  by  putting  a  little  fair  water 
over  them  ;  but  it  is  less  trouble  to  put  some  water  when  the 
colors  are  observed  to  be  growing  diy.  In  painting  with  this 
composition,  the  colors  blend  without  difficulty  when  wet,  and 
even  when  dry  the  tints  may  easily  be  united  by  means  of  a 
brush  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  fair  water.  When  the 
painting  is  finished,  put  some  white  wax  into  a  glazed  earthen 
vessel  over  a  slow  hve,  and  when  melted,  but  not  boiling,  with 
a  hard  brush  cover  the  painting  wilh  the  wax,  and  when  cold 
take  a  moderately  hot  iron,  such  as  is  used  for  ironing  linen, 


380  MRS,  Hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

and  so  cold  as  not  to  hiss,  if  tonched  with  anything  wet,  and 
draw  it  lightly  over  the  wax.  The  painting  will  appear  as  if 
under  a  cloud  till  the  wax  is  perfectly  cold,  as  also  whatever 
the  picture  is  painted  upon  is  quite  cold  ;  but  if,  when  so,  the 
painting  should  not  appear  sufficiently  clear,  it  may  be  held 
before  the  fire,  so  far  from  it  as  to  melt  the  wax  but  slowly  ; 
or  the  wax  may  be  melted  by  holding  a  hot  poker  at  such  a 
distance  as  to  melt  it  gently,  especially  such  parts  of  the  pic- 
ture as  should  not  appear  sufficiently  transparent  or  brilliant; 
for  the  oftener  heat  is  applied  to  the  picture,  the  greater  will  be 
the  transparency  and  bi'iiliancy  of  coloring;  but  the  contrary 
effect  w^ould  be  produced  if  too  sudden  or  too  great  a  degree  of 
heat  w^as  applied,  or  for  too  long  a  time,  as  it  would  draw  the 
wax  too  much  to  the  surface,  and  might  likewise  crack  the 
paint.  Should  the  coat  of  wax  put  over  the  painting,  when  fin- 
ished, appear  in  any  part  uneven,  it  may  be  remedied  by  draw- 
ing a  moderately  hot  iron  over  it  again,  as  before- mentioned, 
or  even  by  scraping  the  wax  with  a  knife  ;  and  should  the  wax, 
by  too  great  or  too  long  application  of  heat,  form  into  bubbles 
at  particular  places,  by  applying  a  poker  heated,  or  even  a 
tobacco-pipe  made  hot,  the  bubbles  would  subside;  or  siich 
defects  may  be  removed  by  drawing  anything  hard  over  the 
wax,  which  would  close  any  small  cavities. 

VVhen  the  picture  is  cold,  rub  it  with  a  fine  linen  cloth. 
Paintings  may  be  executed  in  this  manner  upon  wood  (having 
first  pieces  of  wood  let  in  behind,  across  the  grain  of  the  wood, 
to  prevent  its  warping),  canvas,  card,  or  plaster  of  Paris.  The 
plaster  of  Paris  would  require  no  other  preparation  than  mix- 
ing some  fine  plaster  of  Paris,  in  powder,  with  cold  water,  the 
thickness  of  a  cream  ;  then  put  it  on  a  looking-glass,  having' 
first  made  a  frame  of  bees'-wax  on  the  looking-glass,  the  form 
and  thickness  you  would  w4sh  the  plaster  of  Paris  to  be  of,  and 
when  dry  take  it  off,  and  there  will  be  a  very  smooth  surface 
to  paint  upon.  Wood  and  canvas  are  best  covered  with  some 
gray  tint,  mixed  w^ith  the  same  composition  of  gum-arabic, 
gum  mastic,  and  wax,  and  of  the  same  sort  of  colors  as  before- 
mentioned,  before  the  design  is  begun,  in  order  to  cover  the 
grain  of  the  wood  or  the  thieads  of  the  canvas.  Paintings  may 
also  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  with  only  gum-water  and 
gum-mastic,  prepared  the  same  w^ay  as  the  mastic  and  wax ; 
but  instead  of  putting  seven  ounces  of  mastic,  and,  w^hen  boil- 
ing, adding  five  ounces  of  wax,  mix  twelve  ounces  of  gum-mas- 


PAINTING    ON     GLASS,    ETC.  381 

tic  with  the  gum-water,  prepared  as  mentioned  in  the  first  part 
of  this  receipt ;  before  it  is  put  on  the  fire,  and  when  sufficiently 
boiled  and  beaten,  and  is  a  little  cold,  stir  in,  by  degree?, 
tw^elve  ounces,  or  three-quarters  of  a  pint  (wine  measure)  of 
cold  spring  water,  and  afterwards  strain  it.  It  would  be 
equally  practicable  painting  with  wax  alone,  dissolved  in  gum- 
w^ater  in  the  following  manner  :  Take  twelve  ounces,  or  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  (wine  measure)  of  cold  spring  water,  and 
four  ounces  and  a  half  of  gum-arabic,  put  them  into  a  glazed 
earthen  vessel,  and  when  the  gum  is  dissolved,  add  eight  ounces 
of  white  wax.  Put  the  earthen  vessel,  with  the  gum-water  and 
wax,  upon  a  slow^  fire,  and  stir  themi  till  the  wax  is  dissolved, 
and  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  ;  then  take  them  off  the  fire,  and 
throw  them  into  a  basin,  as  by  remaining  in  the  hot  earthen 
vessel  the  wax  would  become  I'ather  hard;  beat  the  gum-water 
and  wax  till  quite  cold.  As  there  is  but  a  small  proportion  of 
w^ater  in  comparison  to  the  quantity  of  gum  and  wax,  it  would 
be  necescary,  in  mixing  this  composition  with  the  colors,  to 
put  also  some  fair  water.  Should  the  composition  be  so  made 
as  to  occasion  the  ingredients  to 'separate  in  the  bottle,  it  will 
become  equally  serviceable,  if  shaken  before  used,  to  mix  with 
the  colors. 


1379.  The  Best  Season  for  Fainting  Houses. — The  outside 
of  buildings  should  be  painted  during  autumn  or  winter.  Hot 
w^eather  injures  the  paint  by  drying  in  the  oil  too  quickly; 
then  the  paint  will  easily  rub  off.  But  when  the  paint  is 
laid  on  during  cold  weather,  it  hardens  in  drying,  and  is  firmly 
set. 


1380.  A  cheap  and  simple  Process  for  Painting  on  Glass,  suf 
nclentfor  the  purpose  ef  making  a  Magic  Lanthorn.^'riike  good 
clear  resin,  any  quantity,  melt  it  in  an  iron  pot;  when  melted 
entirely,  let  it  cool  a  little,  and  before  it  begins  to  harden,  pour 
in  oil  of  turpentine  sufficient  to  keep  it  liquid  when  cold.  In 
order  to  paint  with  it,  let  it  be  used  with. colors  ground  in  oil, 
such  as  are  commonly  sold  in  color  shops. 

1381.  I'u  make  Phosphorus. — Two-third  parts  of  quickdime 
(/.^.calcined  oyster-shells),  and  one-third  of  flour  of  brimstone, 
put  into  a  crucible  for  an  hour,  and  exposed  to  the  air  for  au 
hour,  become  phosphorus. 


332  MRS.  hale'3  receipts  for  the  million. 

1382.  To  make  an  Illuminated  or  Phosphoric  Bottle^  which 
will  preserve  its  Light  for  several  months. — By  putting  a  piece 
of  phpsphorus,  the  size  of  a  pea,  into  a  phial,  and  adding  boil- 
ing oil  until  the  bottle  is  a  third  full,  a  luminous  bottle  is 
formed  ;  for,  on  taking  out  the  cork,  to  admit  atmospheric  air, 
the  empty  space  in  the  phial  will  become  luminous. 

Whenever  the  stopper  is  taken  out  in  the  night,  sufficient 
light  will  be  evolved  to  show  the  hour  upon  a  watch  ;  and  if 
care  be  taken  to  keep  it,  in  general,  well  closed,  it  will  pre- 
serve its  illuminative  power  for  several  months. 

1383.  To  Marble  Books  or  Paper. — Marbling  of  books  or 
paper  is  performed  thus  : — Dissolve  four  ounces  of  gum  arabio 
in  two  quarts  of  fair  water  ;  then  provide  several  colors  mixed 
with  water  in  pots  or  shells,  and  with  pencils  peculiar  to  each 
color ;  sprinkle  them  by  way  of  intermixture  upon  the  gum- 
water,  which  must  be  put  into  a  trough,  or  some  broad  vessel ; 
then,  with  a  stick,  curl  them,  or  draw  them  out  in  streaks  to  as 
much  variety  as  may  be  done.  Having  done  this,  hold  your 
book,  or  books,  close  together,  and  only  dip  the  edges  in,  on 
the  top  of  the  water  and  colors,  very  lightly  ;  which  done,  take 
them  off,  and  the  plain  impression  of  the  colors  in  mixture  will 
be  upon  the  leaves  ;  doing  as  well  the  ends  as  the  front  of  the 
book  in  like  manner,  and  afterwards  glazing  the  colors. 


1384.  To  Write  Secretly  on  a  Pocket  ITandkerchief. — Dis- 
solve alum  in  pure  water,  and  write  upon  a  fine  white  handker- 
chief, which,  when  dry,  will  not  be  seen  at  all  ;  but  when  you 
would  have  the  letters  visible,  dip  the  handkerchief  in  pure 
water,  and  it  will  be  of  a  wet  appearance  all  over,  except  where 
it  was  written  on  with  the  alum  water. 

You  may  also  write  with  alum  watei'  upon  writing  paper, 
which  will  not  be  visible  till  dipped  in  water. 


1385.  To  keep  Insects  out  of  Bird- Cages. — Tie  up  a  little  sul- 
phur in  a  silk  bng,  and  suspend  it  in  the  cage.  For  mocking- 
birds this  is  essential  to  their  health;  and  the  sulphur  will 
keep  all  the  red  ants  and  other  insects  from  cages  of  all  kind^n 
of  birds.  Red  ants  will  never  be  found  in  a  closet  or  drawer 
if  a  small  bag  of  sulphur  is  kept  constantly  in  these  places 


BOOKS,    READING,    ETC.  383 

1386.  Of  BooJcs^  Mental  Cultivation^  <£:c. — Our  work  would 
be  incomplete,  without  some  reference  to  mental  as  well  as  ma 
terial  improvement.  In  truth,  we  have  aimed,  throughout  thia 
and  a  former  book,*  to  make  the  connection  between  the  culti- 
vation of  the  mental  faculties  and  true  household  economy 
apparent.  To  work  properly  we  must  think  rightly.  Science 
is  as  necessary  in  the  kitchen  as  in  the  laboratory.  The  rea- 
son why  men  cooks  are  preferred  above  women  cooks,  and  bet- 
ter paid,  is,  the  fornaer  study  their  art  as  a  science.  Knowledge 
is  power,  in  domestic  life  as  well  as  in  the  political  arena.  Let 
the  woman  elevate  her  position  by  her  learning;  let  her  un- 
derstand the  nature  and  influence  of  her  daily  employments, 
cultivating  her  taste  and  refaiing  her  manners  by  the  true  stand- 
ard of  moral  excellence;  thus  making  her  home-pursuits  con- 
duce to  the  harmony  and  happiness  of  the  general  plan  of  life 
in  which  she,  the  wife  and  mother,  is  the  centre  of  attraction 
and  volition,  and  how  important  for  humanity  her  sphere 
becomes. 


1 387.  Choice  of  Reading, — Never-  keep  house  without  books. 
Life  is  not  life  to  any  great  purpose  where  books  are  not.  The 
Bible  is  indispensable.  Out  of  its  treasures  of  Divine  wisdom 
all  best  human  wisdom  is  derived  or  directed.  Then  have 
other  books,  as  your  means  permit.  If  these  are  rightly  cho- 
sen, every  volume  will  be  a  teacher,  a  friend — a  fountain,  from 
whence  may  be  drawn  sweet  streams  of  pleasure  and  profit. 
Poetry,  story,  biography,  history,  essays,  and  religious  works — - 
1  njime  these  in  the  order  a  child  chooses  books — all  are  needed. 
American  literature — that  is,  books  on  subjects  connected  with 
our  own  country,  should  be  first  in  our  reading.  Bancroft's 
''  History  of  the  United  States,"  Sparkes'  "  American  Biogra- 
phies," Lippincotc's  "  Cabinet  Histories  of  the  States,"  Mrs. 
Ellet's  ''Women  of  the  Revolution" — these  should  be  accessible 
to  every  family  in  the  Union.  Read  on  every  subject  con- 
nected with  your  own  pursuits  and  employments.  Knowledge 
will  aid  you  e\ en  in  hand  labor;  and  a  good  book  is  a  safa 
rt'fut^e  in  idle  huuis. 


L388.   Of  Periodicals  and  Newspapers, — Every  family  should 
take  a   newspaper;  this,   the  lady  of  the  house   should   insist 


*Seo  "Mrs,  Hale's  New  Cook  Book." 


384  MRS.  H ale's  receipts  for  the  million 

upon — kindly,  to  be  sure;  for  a. pleasant  request  is  as  powerful 
as  "  a  soft  answer"  in  "  turning  away  wrath."  Men,  usually, 
are  willing  to  subscribe  for  a  paper,  though  some  are  indiffer- 
ent to  this  great  source  of  family  instruction  as  well  as  pleasure ; 
but  they  forget,  when  the  year  comes  round,  to  renew  their  sub- 
scription in  the  right  way.  So  the  women  of  the  family  should 
be  sure  to  remember  the  printer. 

Another  important  source  of  family  improvement  is  the  peri- 
odicals or  monthly  magazines.  These  are  now,  thanks  to  the 
cheap  postage  system,  accessible  to  the  dwellers  in  the  most 
remote  places  of  our  wide  land.  "As  a  work  for  our  own  sex, 
Godey's  Lady's  Book  is  the  best  that  can  be  taken  in  a  family, 
because  it  furnishes  information  on  every  branch  of  home  du- 
ties and  pursuits;  and  moreover,  upholds  that  pure  standard 
of  morals  in  its  lightest  fiction,  which  renders  it  a  safe  enjoy- 
ment for  the  young. 

Many  other  periodicals  might  be  named,  all  excellent  of 
their  kind,  and  where  the  expense  can  be  afforded,  each  house- 
hold should  obtain  one  or  more  of  these.  A  better  way  would 
oe  for  a  neighborhood  to  unite  and  take  a  half  dozen  different 
publications,  securing  the  inestimable  advantage  of  reading 
every  month  the  best  religious,  medical,  agricultun;!,  scientific, 
literary,  and  illustrated  magazines — thus  keeping  up  with  the 
progress  of  art,  the  march  of  mind,  the  material  advancement, 
and  the  moral  improvement  of  the  world. 


1389.  How  can  we  Pay  for  the  Magazines? — Is  the  question 
with  many  families.  Very  easily,  if  you  have  the  will — one 
half  of  the  money  spent  on  tobacco  would,  if  laid  out  in  books, 
soon  give  every  family  a  library.  And,  young  ladies,  if  you 
cannot  pereuade  your  brothers  to  throw  aside  their  cigars,  and 
subscribe,  why,  look  over  this  book,  and  see,  if  from  its  eco- 
nomical hints  you  cannot  devise  some  plan  of  earning  or  saving, 
whereby  you  may  be  able  to  pay  for  the  magazines.  Do  this 
one  year;  husband  or  brother  will  then  be  ready  to  aid. 
Woman  has  everything  to  gain  from  Christian  civilization ;  she 
should  lead  the  way. 


PAET  VIII. 

ELEGANT  AND  INGENIOUS  ARTS,  ETC. 

Water- Colors — Potichomanie — Grecian  Painting — Diaphanic 
Feather  Flowers  —  Sea-  Weeds  —  Botanical  Specimens  — 
Leaves  — Plants — Fungi—.  Transferring — Etching — Stain- 
ing— Leather-work —  Games,  etc. 

1390.  Mome  Pursuits,  etc. — See  Part  IIT.,  page  151. 


1391.  Accomplishments. — These  are  very  desirable  for  the 
household,  because  the  inmates  are  made  happier  by  refined 
and  ingenious  arts  and  pursuits,  and  are  fitted  to  improve  the 
taste  of  others. 


1392.  Children  and  young  persons,  of  botb  sexes,  should 
learn  as  many  of  these  arts  as  they  possibly  can  without  neg- 
lecting duties.  Pleasant  modes  of  employing  leisure  hours 
save  people  from  many  temptations,  and  add  much  to  the 
happiness  of  life. 


WATER-COLORS   USED   IN   DRAWING. 

1393.  Indian  InJc. — The  best  is  stamped  with  Chinese 
characters,  breaks  with  a  glossy  fracture,  and  feels  smooth 
when  rubbed  on  the  plate. 


1394.  Hair  Pencils  are  made  of  camel's-hair ;  if  they  come 
to  a  point,  when  moistened,  without  splitting,  they  are  good. 


1395.  Drawing  Paper.  —  That  made  without  any  wire 
marks,  and  called  wove  paper,  is  the  best ;  it  is  made  of  va- 
rious sizes  and  thicknesses. 

25  (385) 


386  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1396.  To  make  a  good  White, — Clarify  white  lead  with 
white-wine  vinegar.  After  the  powder  has  settled,  pour  off 
the  vinegar,  put  the  powder  into  a  glass  of  water,  stir  it, 
and  pour  the  water  off  while  it  is  white  into  another  glass ; 
when  it  is  settled,  pour  off  the  water,  and  an  excellent  white 
will  be  obtained.     To  this  add  gum  enough  to  give  it  a  gloss. 


DIRECTIONS   FOR   MIXED    COLORS. 

139T.  Ash   Color.  —  Ceruse   white,   Keating's   black    and 
white,  shaded  with  cherry-stone  black. 


1398.  Bay. — Lake  and  flake  white,  shaded  with  carmine  : 
bistre  and  vermilion  shaded  with  black. 


1399.   Changeable  Silk. — Red   lead   and   masticot   water, 
shaded  with  sap-green  and  verdigris. 


1400.  Another, — Lake  and  yellow,  shaded  with  lake  and 
Prussian  blue. 


1401.   Cloud  Color. — Light  masticot,  or  lake  and  white, 
shaded  with  b4ue  verditer. 


1402.  ^no^/ier. —-Constant  white   and   Indian   ink,  and  a 
little  vermilion. 


1403.  Another. — White,  with  a  little  lake  and  blue  verditer, 
make  a  good  cloud  color  for  that  part  next  the  horizon. 


1404.   Crimson. — Lake  and  white,  with  a  little  vermilion, 
shaded  with  lake  and  carmine. 


1405.  Flame  Color. — Yermilion  and  orpiment,  heightened 
with  white. 


1406.  Another. — Gamboge,  shaded  with  minium  and  red 
lead. 


1407.   Flesh   Color. — Ceruse,    red   lead,   and   lake,    for   a 
swarthy  complexion,  and  yellow  ochre. 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    MIXED    COLORS.  38Y 

1408.   Another. — Constant  white  and  a  little  carmine,  shaded 
with  Spanish  liquorice  washed  with  carmine. 


1409.  French  Green, — Light  pink  and  Dutch  bice,  shaded 
with  green  pink. 


1410.   Glass  Grey. — Ceruse,  with  a  little  blue  of  any  kind. 


1411.  Hair  Color. — Masticot,  ochre,  umber,   ceruse,  and 
cherry-stone  black. 


1412.  Lead  (7oZor.— Indigo  and  white. 


1413.   Light  Blue. — Blue  bice,  heightened  with  flake  white. 


1414.  Another. — Blue  verditer,  and  white  of  any  sort,  well 
ground. 


1415.  Light  Green. — Pink,  smalt,  and  white. 


1416.  Another, — Blue  verditer  and  gamboge. 


1417.  Another. — Gamboge  and  verdigris.     This  is  chiefly 
used  for  the  ground  colors  of  trees,  fields,  &c. 


1418.  Lion  Tawny. — Red  lead  and  masticot,  shaded  with 
umber. 


1419.  Murrey. — Lake  and  white  lead. 


1420.   Orange, — Red  lead  and  a  little  masticot,  shaded  with 
umber. 


1421.    Orange  Tawny. — Lake,  light  pink,  a  little  masticot, 
shaded  with  gall-stone  and  lake. 


1422.  Pearl   Color. — Carmine,  a  little  white,  shaded  with 
lake. 


1423.  Popinjay  Green. — Green  and  masticot ;  or  pink  and 
a  little  indigo,  shaded  with  indigo. 


388  MRS.  iiale's  keoeipts  for  the  million. 

1424.  Purple. — Tndigo,  Spanish  brown,  and  white  ;  or  blue 
bice,  red  and  white  lead  ;  or  blue  bice  and  lake. 


1425.  Busset, — Cherry-stone  black  and  white. 


1426.  Scarlet. — Red  lead  and  lake,  with  or  without  ver- 
milion. 


142Y.   Sea  Green.— Wice,  pink  and  white,  shaded  with  pink. 


1428.  Sky  Color. — Light  masticot  and  white,  for  the  low- 
est and  lightest  parts  ;  second,  red  ink  and  w^hite  ;  third,  blue 
bice  and  white  ;  fourth,  blue  bice  alone.  These  are  all  to  be 
softened  into  one  another  at  the  edges,  so  as  not  to  appear 
harsh. 


1429.  Sky  Color  for  Drapery. — Blue  bice  and  ceruse,  or 
ultramarine  and  white,  shaded  with  indigo. 


1430.  Straw  Color, — Masticot  and  a  very  little  lake,  shaded 
with  Dutch  pink. 


1431.  Yellow  Color. — Indigo,  white,  and  lake;  or  fine 
Dutch  bice  and  lake,  shaded  with  indigo  ;  or  litmus  smalt  and 
bice,  the  latter  predominant. 


1432.    Water. — Blue    and   white,    shaded    with   blue,    and 
heightened  with  white. 


1433.  Another. — Blue  verdigris,  shaded  with  indigo,  and 
heightened  with  white. 


1434.  To  prevent  Colors  from  Cracking. — Boil  two  ounces 
of  the  best  and  clearest  glue,  with  one  pint  of  clear  water,  and 
a  half  an  ounce  of  alum,  till  dissolved.  With  this  temper 
those  colors  intended  for  the  sky. 


1435.  To  make  a  Solution  of  Gum. — Dissolve  an  ounce 
of  white  gum  arable,  and  half  an  ounce  of  double  refined 
sugar,  in  a  quart  of  spring  water  ;  strain  it  through  a  piece 
of  muslin,  and  bottle  it  to  keep  it  free  from  dust. 


TO    MIX    WATER-COLORS    FOR    ANIMALS.  389 

1436.    To  heep  Flies  from  the  Work. — Having  prepared 
the  glim  water  for  the  colors,  add  a  little  coloquintida. 


143Y.  To  prepare  Alum  Water, — Take  four  ounces  of  alum, 
and  a  pint  of  spring  water;  boil  it  till  the  alum  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  and  then  filter  it  through  blotting-paper. 


1438.  To  use  Alum  Water. — Before  laying  on  the  colors, 
take  some  of  this  water,  hot,  and  with  a  sponge  wet  the  back 
of  the  paper,  which,  if  not  good,  must  be  wet  three  or  four 
times,  letting  the  paper  dry  each  time  before  wetting  it  again. 
This  will  prevent  the  sinking  of  the  colors,  and  give  them  ad- 
ditional lustre. 


1439.  To  make  Lime  Water. — Put  unslacked  lime  in  a 
well-glazed  pan  ;  cover  it  with  pure  water,  and  let  it  remain 
for  one  day.  'Then  strain  off  the  water.  *  This  water  will 
change  sap-green  into  blue. 


TO    PREPARE  WASH    COLORS   FOR   MAPS. 

1440.  Blue. — Dilute  Saxon  blue  with  water  ;^  or  to  the  so- 
lution of  litmus  add  distilled  vineo:ar. 


1441.   Green. — Dissolve  verdigris  in  distilled  water  and  add 
gum  arable. 


1442.   Or,  dissolve  sap-green  in  water  and  add  gum. 


1443.  Red. — Steep  Brazil  dust  in  vinegar,  with  alum.     Or, 
dissolve  litmus  in  water  and  add  spirit  of  wine.- 


1444.   Or,  steep  cochineal  in  water,  strain,  and  add  gum. 


1445.  Yelloiv. — Dissolve  gamboge  in  water;  or  French 
berries  steeped  in  water  the  liquor  strained,  and  gum  arable 
added. 


TO  MIX  WATER-COLORS  FOR  ANIMALS. 

1446.  Horses,  Black. — Black  lightly  laid   on,  shaded  with 
Keating's  black  and  bistre,  heightened  with  masticot. 


390  MRS.    HALE*S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

144T.  Horses,  Chestnut  Broivn.' — Keel  ochre  and  black 
mixed  together,  shaded  with  black,  heightened  with  red  ochre 
and  w^hite. 


1448.  Horses,  Gray. — Black  and  white  mixed,  shaded  with 
black,  white,  and  bistre ;  heightened  with  pure  water. 


1449.   Lions. — Color  much  in  the  same  manner  as  horses, 
adding  lake  in  the  ground  color. 


1450.  Bears. — Brown  ochre,  red  ochre,  and  black,  mixed  ; 
shaded  with  bistre  and  ivory  black. 


1451.    Wolves. — Spanish  liquorice  and  black,  shaded  with 
black. 


1452.  Asses. — Black  and  white  mixed  ;    or,   add  a  little 
brown  ochre,  shaded  with  black. 


1453.  Elephants. — Black,  white,  and  Spanish  liquorice, 
mixed ;  shaded  with  black  and  bistre  ;  the  inner  part  of  the 
nose,  vermilion  and  white,  shaded  with  black. 


1454.  Monkeys. — Dutch  pink  and  black,  heightened  with 
masticot  and  white  :  the  face,  black  and  bistre  mixed,  as  also 
their  feet ;  their  bodies,  shaded  underneath  with  black  and  pink 
mixed  with  a  little  brown  ochre. 


FRUIT    IN  WATER    COLORS. 

1455.  Apples. — Thin  masticot  mixed  with  verdigris,  shaded 
with  brown  ochre. 


1456.   Cherries. — ^Vermilion    and   lake,  shaded  with   ear- 
mine,  heightened  with  vermilion  and  white. 


1457.   Grapes,  Blue. — Dark  purple  shaded  with  blue ;  the 
bloom,  biee. 


1458.   Grapes,    White. — Yerdigris    and    masticot    mixed, 
shaded  with  thin  verdigris  heightened  with  masticot  and  white. 


TO    PAINT    FLOWERS.  891 

1459.   Peaches. — Thin  raasticot  shaded  with  brown  ochre; 
the  bloom,  lake  heightened  with  white. 


1460.  P^ars.— Masticot  deepened  and  mellowed  with  brown 
ochre. 


1461.  Strawberries. — White  ;  draw  it  over  with  vermilion 
and  lake,  shaded  with  fine  lake,  heightened  with  red  lead  and 
masticot  mixed,  and  then  with  white  ;  stipple  them  with  white 
and  thin  lead. 


TO   PAINT   FLOWERS. 

1462.  Anemones. — A  thin  wash  of  gamboge  shaded  with 
bistre ;  or  carmine  and  spp-green  blended  together.  The 
stripes  carmine,  shaded  with  the  same ;  indigo  in  the  darkest 
parts,  or  stipple  with  it. 


1463.  Leaves. — Sap  green,  shaded  with  indigo  and  French 
berries  ;  the  stalk  brown. 


1464.  noneysxickles. — Inside  of  the  petals,  white  shaded 
witt  sap-green,  or  gamboge  and  bistre. 


1465.  The  insides  are  to  be  shown  by  curling  the  leaves 
back  at  the  ends,  or  by  splitting  them. 


1466.  The  oiUsides,  a  thin  wash  of  carmine  and  lake  mixed, 
shaded  with  carmine — indii^o  for  the  darkest  shades. 


1461.   Stalks. — Sap-green  and  carmine. 


1468.  Leaves. — Sap-green,  shaded  with  indigo  and  French 
berries. 


1469.  Boses. — A  light  tint  of  pure  carmine,  over  which  an- 
other equally  light  of  Peruvian  blue  ;  proceed  with  the  darker 
shades  of  carmine  of  the  best  sort. 


1410.  In  the  darkest   part  of  the  flower  add  a  little  indigo 
to  give  a  roundness.     If  the  seeds  are  seen  lay  on  gamboge, 


shaded  with  gall-stone. 


392  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1411.  Leaves. — Upper  side,  sap-green,  shaded  with  indigo 
and  French  berries  mixed;  under-side,  white  indigo  and  sap 
green  mixed,  shaded  with  the  same. 


1472.   Stalks. — Sap-green  and  carmine,  shaded  with  indigo. 


1413.  JRose-biicls. — A  pale  wash  of  carmine,  shaded  with  a 
strono-er  wash  of  the  same. 


1414.  Stalks  and  leaves,  sap  green  with  a  slight  wash  of 
carmine. 

BIRDS   IN  WATER-COLORS. 

1415.  Eagles. — Black  and  brown,  shaded  with  indigo  ; 
feathers  heightened  by  brown  ochre  and  white;  beak  and 
claws  saffron,  shaded  with  bistre ;  eyes  vermilion,  heightened 
with  masticot  or  saffron,  shaded  with  vermilion. 


1416.   Geese. — Ceruse  shaded  with  black  ;  legs,  black  ;  bill, 
red. 


1411,   Owls. — Ochre  mixed  with  white,  in  different  shades  ; 
legs,  yellow  ochre. 


1418.  Pheasants. — White  and  black  mixed;    legs,   Dutch 
pink,  shaded  with  black. 


1419.   Swans. — White  shaded  with  black  ;    the  legs  and 
bills  black  ;  eyes  yellow ;  a  ball  in  the  midst. 


1480.    Turkeys. — Back,  black  and  white  mixed,  shaded  off 
to  a  white  underneath  ;  sprinkled  and  shaded  with  black. 


LANDSCAPES   IN  WATER-COLORS. 

1481.   Sketch  the  outlines  faintly  with  a  black-lead  pencil. 
Then  color. 


1482.  Colors. — The  mo^st  useful  are  :  lake,  burnt  ochre, 
gamboge,  indigo,  light  red,  sepia,  Prussian  blue,  sienna,  and 
burnt  umber. 


LANDSCAPES    IN   WATER-COLOKS.  393 

1483.  The  gray  color  is  made  of  burnt  nmber,  indigo,  and 
lake  ;  each  rubbed  separately  in  a  saucer,  and  then  so  mixed 
in  a  fourth  saucer  as  to  pi'oduce  the  exact  color — a  warm 
gray.     This  is  thinned  for  the  light  tints,  as  sky  and  distances. 

Deeper  is  to  be  used  for  the  shadows  and  near  parts/soften- 
ing  with  water  till  the  exact  eifect  is  produced. 

1484.  Buildings  are  sometimes  tinted  with  a  mixture  of 
lake  and  gamboge.  Burnt  ochre  is  also  used.  The  shadows 
have  an  excess  of  lake. 


1485.  Breadths  of  Light  are  obtained  by  destroying   the 
scattered  lights  wath  grays. 


1486.  Clouds  are  produced  by  a  thin  mixture  of  indigo  and 
lake.  They  should  be  tinted  with  sepia.  The  lower  or  hori- 
zontal clonds  are  tin^-ed  v/ith  ultramarine. 


148T.  Figures  are  touched  with  lake  and  indigo. 


1488.  Force  is  acquired  by  adding  sepia  to  indigo,  in  the 
cold  parts,  and  sepia  with  lake  to  the  glowing  parts. 


1489.  Grass  is  washed  with  a  mixture  of  burnt  sienna,  in- 
digo, and  gamboge  ;  that  in  shadow  has  more  indigo.  Grass 
and  bushes  may  be  brought  out  by  a  tint  of  gamboge  ;  dis- 
tances may  be  heightened  by  lake. 


1490.  Hills,  retiring. — Tint  the  whole  with  weak  blue; 
then  the  nearer  ones  with  indigo  and  lake  ;  add  a  little  gam- 
boge to  the  next,  keeping  one  subordinate  to  the  other ;  the 
most  distant  being  lost  in  the  aerial  tints. 


1491.  Land,  distant. — Ultramarine  and  lake.     Ground  near 
is  tinted  with  ochre. 

■X 

1492.  Boad  and  Baths. — A  mixture  of  lake,  burnt  umber, 
and  burnt  sienna.     It  may  be  tinted  with  ochre. 


1493.   Smoke. — Lake  and  inditj-o. 


1494.    Trees,  distant. — Ultramarine,  with  a  wash  of  indigo, 


.304  "MRS.  bale's   receipts   for  the  million. 

gamboo'e,  and  burnt  sienna,  tinted  with  gray.  The  middle 
distance  trees  have  a  thin  wash  of  burnt  sienna  and  gamboge. 
Nearer  trees  a  wash  of  burnt  sienna,  indigo,  and  gamboge. 
In  the  shadows  more  indio-o  is  used. 


1495.   Opposing  masses  of  trees  are  tinted  with  sepia  and 
indigo. 


1496.    Windows. — Indigo  and  burnt  umber. 


POTICHOMANIE. 

1497.  This  elegant  accomplishment,  which  has  become  so 
extremely  popular  and  fashionable,  promises  not  only  to  super- 
cede altogether  many  of  those  meretricious  accomplishments 
which  have  hitherto  absorbed  the  attention  of  our  fair  country- 
women, but  to  rank  among  the  fine  arts. 


1498.  Advantages  of  this  Art. — It  possesses  many  advan- 
tages :  and  the  process  is  simple  and  easily  acquired. 


1499.  It  is  an  exceedingly  pleasing  and  interesting  employ- 
ment, requiring  no  previous  knowledge  of  drawing,  yet  afford- 
ing abundant  space  for  the  exercise  of  the  most  exquisite 
taste. 


1500.  The  time  employed  is  richly  repaid ;  the  results  pro- 
duced are  of  actual  value  ;  articles  of  ornament  and  domestic 
utility  being  produced,  in  perfect  imitation  of  the  mOvSt  beau- 
tiful Chinese  and  Japanese  porcelain,  of  Sevres  and  Dresden 
china,  and  of  every  form  that  is  usual  in  the  productions  of 
the  Ceramic  Art. 


1501.  It  furnishes  an  inexhaustible  and  inexpensive  source 
for  the  production  of  useful  and  elegant  presents,  which  will 
be  carefully  preserved  as  tokens  of  friendship,  and  as  proofs  of 
the  taste  and  talent  of  the  giver. 


1502.  Articles  necessary  in  the  Art  of  Potichomanie. — 
Glass  vases  (Potiches  en  verre,)  of  shapes  suitable  to  the 
different  orders  of  Chinese,  Japanese,  Etruscan,  and  French 


POTICHOMANIE.  395 

porcelain,  Alutnettes,   &c.;  cups,  plates,  &c.,   &c.,  of  Sevres 
and  Dresden  desi^^n. 


1503.  Sheets  of  colored  drawings  or  prints,  characteristic 
representations  of  the  designs  or  decorations  suitable  to  every 
kind  of  porcelain  and  china. 


1504.  A  bottle  of  liquid  gum,  and  three  or  four  hog-hair 
brushes. 


1505.  A  bottle  of  varnish,  and  very  fine  pointed   scissors 
for  cuttino:  out. 


1506.  An   assortment   of    colors   for   the    foundation,    in 
bottles. 


15  1,     A  packet  of  gold   powder,  and  a  glass  vessel  for 
diluting  the  colors. 


1508.  Directions. — ^We  will  suppose  the  object  selected  for 
imitation  to  be  a  Chinese  vase. 


1509.  After  providing  yourself  with  a  plain  glass  vase,  of 
the  proper  shape,  you  take  your  sheets  of  colored  prints  on 
which  are  depicted  subjects  characteristic  of  that  peculiar 
style. 


1510.  From  these  sheets  you  can  select  a  great  variety  of 
designs,  of  the  most  varied  character,  on  the  arrangement  and 
grouping  of  which  you  can  exercise  your  own  taste. 


1511.  After  you  have  fully  decided  upon  the  arrangement 
of  your  drawings,  cut  them  out  accurately  with  a  pair  of  scis- 
sors, then  apply  some  liquid  gum  carefully  over  the  colored 
side  of  the  drawings,  and  stick  them  on  the  inside  of  the  vase, 
according  to  your  own  previous  arrangement — pressing  them 
down  till  they  adhere  closely,  without  any  bubbles  of  air 
appearing  between  the  glass  and  the  drawings. 


1512.  When  the  drawings  have  had  sufficient  time  to  dry, 
take  a  fine  brush  and  cover  every  part  of  them  (without  touch- 
ing the  glass)  with  a  coat  of  parchment  size  or  liquid  gum, 


396  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for   the  million. 

which  prevents  the  oil  color  (which  is  next  applied)  from  sink- 
ing into  or  becoming  absorbed  by  the  paper. 


1513.  When  the  interior  of  the  vase  is  perfectly  dry,  and 
any  particles  of  gum  size  that  may  have  been  left  on  the 
glass  have  been  removed,  your  vase  is  ready  for  the  final  and 
most  important  process. 


1514.  You  have  now  to  tint  the  whole  of  the  vase  with  a 
proper  color  to  give  it  the  appearance  of  porcelain ;  for  up  to 
this  time,  you  will  recollect,  it  is  but  a  glass  vase,  with  a  few 
colored  prints  stuck  thereon. 

1515.  Select  from  your  stock  of  prepared  colors,  in  bottles, 
the  tint  most  appropriate  to  the  kind  of  china  you  are  imitat- 
ing (as  we  are  now  supposed  to  be  making  a  Chinese  vase,  it 
will  be  of  a  greenish  hue),  mix  fully  sufficient  color  in  a  glass 
vessel,  then  pour  the  whole  into  the  vase. 


1516.  Take  now  your  vase  in  both  hands,  and  turn  it  round 
continually  in  the  same  direction,  until  the  color  is  equally 
spread  over  the  whole  of  the  interior:  when  this  is  satisfac- 
torily accomplished,  pour  back  the  remainder.  If  the  pre- 
pared color  is  too  thick,  add  a  little  varnish  to  the  mixture 
before  applying  it. 


15 IT.  If  preferred,  the  color  may  be  laid  on  with  a  soft 
brush.  Should  the  vase  be  intended  to  hold  water,  the  inte- 
rior must  be  well  varnished  after  the  above  operations,  or  lined 
with  zinc  or  tin  foil. 


1518.  If  the  Potichomanist  wishes  to  decorate  the  mouth 
of  his  vase  with  a  gold  border,  he  can  do  so  by  mixing  some 
gold  powder  in  a  few  drops  of  the  essence  of  lavender  and  some 
varnish,  applying  it  on  the  vase  with  a  fine  brush  ;  or  he  can 
purchase  gold  bands,  already  prepared  for  application,  in 
varied  sheets,  suitable  to  the  Potichomanie  designs. 


1519.  Potichomanists  have  found  the  art  capable  of  greater 
results  than  the  mere  imitation  of  porcelain  vases,  by  the  in- 
troduction of  glass  panels  (previously  decorated  with  beautiful 
flov.-ers  on  a  white  ground)  into  drawing-room  doors,  and  also 


GRECIAN    PAINTING.  39*1 

into  walls  which,  being  panel  papered,  offer  opportunities  of 
introducing  centre  pieces  of  the  same  character  as  the  doors  ; 
elegant  chess  and  work-tables,  folding  and  cheval-screens, 
panels  for  cabinets,  chiffoniers  and  book-cases,  slabs  for  pier 
and  console-tables,  glove-boxes,  covers,  for  books,  music, 
albums,  &c. 


1520.  The  most  common  cause  of  failure  is,  that  the  draw- 
ings inside  are  not  thoroughly  pressed  down. 


GRECIAI^  PARTING. 

1521.   Grecian  Painting  is  the  art  of  imitating  oil  paintings. 


1522  This  truly  beautiful  imitation,  if  well  done,  is  so  per- 
fect that  none  save  connoisseurs  can  discern,  at  sight,  the  dif- 
ference. 


1523.  Engravings  best  suited  to  this  style  of  painting  are 
mezzotint  or  aquatint,  though  fine  lithographs  are  used. 


1524.  Rule  First. — Procure  a  frame  one  inch  longer  than 
the  engraved  part  of  the  print. 


1525.   Second. — Cut  the  engraving  the  size  of  the  frame, 
then  make  a  stiff  paste,  and  spread  it  thickly  on  the  frame. 


1520.  Third. — Place  the  engraving  face  down  and  sponge 
it  gently  with  water  ;  then  press  the  frame  firmly  and  eveiily 
down  on  ;  leave  it  till  entirely  dry  (not  by  the  fire),  and  it 
will  become  even  and  tight. 


152Y.  To  make  the  Grecian  Varnish. — Take  one  part 
turpentine,  two  parts  alcohol  (90  proof),  three  parts  balsam  of 
fir,  and  mix. 


1528.  To  use  the  Varnisli. — Pour  sufficient  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine on  the  back  of  the  picture  to  moisten  it  well,  then  put 
on  the  varnish  and  rub  it  thoroughly  with  a  stiff  brush,  and 
continue  to  apply  it  until  the  i)ictnre  is  perfectly  transparent. 


1529.   Spots. — Leave  the  jiicture  for  twonty-fonr  hours,  after 


398  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

which  if  white  spots  appear,  showing  that  the  varnish  has  not 
been  effectual,  repeat  the  process.  Sometimes  it  has  to  be 
done  several  times. 


1530.  Drying. — Place  the  picture,  face  downward,  where 
it  will  be  free  from  dust,  and  leave  it  three  or  four  days. 


1531.  Paints. — These  are  put  on  the  back  of  the  engrav- 
ino:. 


1532.  Eyes. — For  blue  eyes,  permanent  blue  and  white;  foi 
hazel  eyes,  yellow  ochre  and  Van  Dyke  brown. 


1533.  Flesh  Tints. — Flake  white,   with  a  very  little  ver- 
milion and  Naples  yellow. 


1534.   Foliages. — Chrome  yellow  and  Prussian  blue,  with 
any  of  the  browns. 


1535.   Sky. — Clouds  touched  in  with  white;  the  rest  per- 
manent blue  and  white. 


1536.  Water. — The  light  parts  with  white,  the  rest  the  same 
as  the  sky.  If  a  bright  scene,  and  with  trees,  of  a  greenish 
brown. 


1531.  Hair  and  Fyehrows. — Yellow  ochre  and  Yan  Dyke 
brown,  or  raw  sienna. 


1538.  Backgrounds. — The  most  agreeable  tint  is  a  green- 
ish brown. 


1539.    White  Background.^— -Yldike  and  silver  white. 


1540.  Buff  Background. — Naples  yellow. 


1541.   Orange    Background. — Chrome   yellow,    with   ver- 
milion. 


1542.  Blue  Background. — Flake  whit^  and  Prussian  blue 


1543.   Gray  Background.- — White,  Prussian  blue,  and  ver- 
milion. 


GRECIAN    PAINTING.  399 

1544.  Pink  Background. — White  and  vermilion. 


1545.    Crimson  Background. — Vermilion  and  white,  with 
carmine. 


1546.   Green  Background. — Chrome  yellow  and  Prussian 
blue. 


1547.  Paints  for  the  Front  of  the  Picture. — Drying  oil 
must  be  used  with  all  the  colors  on  the  front. 


1548.  Shading  for  the  Flesh  on  the  Front. — Carmine  and 
Van  Dyke  brown  laid  on  lightly,  and  the  edges  touched  off 
with  the  finger. 


1549.  Cheeks. — Carmine ;  soften  the  edges  carefully. 

1550.  Lips. — Carmine,  with  a  touch  of  vermilion. 


1551.  Hair  and  EyehrOws. — Yellow  lake  and  Van  Dyke 
brown. 


1552.  Draperies. — These  are  always  painted  on  the  back, 
and  shaded  on  the  front  with  Van  Dyke  brown. 


1553.  Backgrounds. — If  plain,  glaze  with  yellow  lake. 


1554.  Foliages. — Yellow  lake  and  Van  Dyke  brown. 


1555.  General  Directions. — First — Lay  the  paint  thickly 
on  the  back,  and  be  careful  to  cover  every  part,  but  not  to  go 
over  the  edges. 


1556.   Second — When  the  painting  is  finished  let  it  dry  four 
days,  and  then  cover  the  front  with  a  coat  of  mastic  varnish. 


1551.  Materials  required,  are  a  palette,  palette-knife,  flat 
varnish  brush,  three  sizes  of  bristle  brushes,  three  sizes  of  table 
brushes,  drying  oil,  mastic  varnish,  spirits  of  turpentine,  Gre- 
cian varnish. 


1558.   Colors  used 'dYQ  oil  colors  in  tubes.     Those  gener- 


400  •  MRS.  bale's   receifts  for  the  million. 

ally  needed  are  silver  white,  Naples j^ellow,  yellow  ochre,  bril- 
liant yellow,  vermilion,  Prussian  blue,  raw  sienna,  ivory  black, 
carmine,  yellow  lake.  Van  Dyke  brown. 


1559.  If  economy  is  an  object,  some  of  the  above-men- 
tioned materials  can  be  dispensed  with 


DIAPHANIE. 

•  1560.  This  is  a  beautiful,  useful,  and  inexpensive  art,  easily 
acquired,  and  producing  imitations  of  the  richest  and  rarest 
stained  glass  ;  and  also  of  making  blinds,  screens,  skylights, 
Chinese  lanterns,  &c.,  in  every  variety  of  color  and  design. 


1561.  In  decorating  his  house,  an  American  spends  as  much 
money  as  he  can  conveniently  spare ;  the  elegancies  and 
refinements  of  modern  taste  demand  something  mare  than 
mere  comfort:  yet  though  his  walls  are  hung  with  pictures, 
his  drawing-room  filled  with  bijouterie,  how  is  it  that  the  win- 
dows of  his  hall,  his  library,  his  staircase,  are  neglected  ? 


1562.  The  reason  is  obvious.  The  magnificent  historical 
old  stained  glass  might  be  envied,  but  could  not  be  brought 
within  the  compass  of  ordinary  means.  Recent  improve- 
ments in  printing  in  colors  led  the  way  to  this  beautiful  inven- 
tion, by  which  economy  is  combined  with  the  most  perfect 
results. 


1563.  A  peculiar  kind  of  paper  is  rendered  perfectly  trans- 
parent, upon  which  designs  are  printed  in  glass  colors  {pitro 
de  couleiirs),  which  will  not  change  with  the  light. 


1564.  The  paper  is  applied  to  the  glass  with  a  clear  white 
varnish,  and  when  dry,  a  preparation  is  finally  applied,  which 
increases  the  transparency,  and  adds  tenfold  brilliancy  to  tho 
effect. 


1565.  There  is  another  design,  printed  in  imitation  of  the 
half-light  (abatiour)  ;  this  is  used  principally  for  a  ground, 
covering  the  whole   surface  of  the  glass,  within  which   (the 


DTAPHANIE.  401 

lieeessary  spaces  having  been  previously  cut  out  before  it  is 
stuck  on  the  glass),  are  placed  medallion  centres  of  Watteau 
figures,  perfectly  transparent,  which  derive  increased  brilliancy 
from  the  semi-transparency  of  the  surrounding  ground. 

1566.  To  ascertain  the  quantity  of  designs  required, 
measure  your  glass  carefully,  and  then  calculate  how  many 
sheets  it  will  take.  The  sheets  are  arranged  so  that  they  can 
be  joined  together  continuously,  or  cut  to  any  size  or  shape. 


1567.  Practical  Instructions.' — Choose  a  fine  day  for  t])e 
operation,  as  the  glass. should  be  perfectly  dry  and  unaffected 
by  the  humiditj^  of  the  atmosphere. 


1568.  Of  course,  if  you  have  a  choice,  it  is  more  convenient 
to  work  on  your  glass  before  it  is  fixed  in  the  frame.  If  you 
?ire  working  on  a  piece  of  unattached  glass,  lay  it  on  a  flat 
table  (a  marble  slab  is  preferable),  over  which  you  must  pre- 
viously lay  a  piece  of  baize  or  cloth  to  keep  the  glass  steady. 


1569.  The  glass  being  thus  fixed,  clean  and  polish  the  side 
on  which  you  intend  to  operate  (in  windows  this  is  the  inner 
side),  tlien  with  your  brush  lay  on  it  very  equably  a  good 
coat  of  the  prepared  varnish  ;  let  this-  dry  for  an  hour,  more 
or  less,  according  to  the  dryness  of  the  atmosphere  and  the 
thickness  of  the  coat  of  varnish. 


1510.  Meantime  cut  and  trim  your  designs  carefuly  to  fit 
the  glass  (if  it  is  one  entire  transparent  sheet  you  will  find  it 
little  trouble)  ;  then  lay  them  on  a  piece  of  paper,  face  down- 
wards, and  damp  the  back  of  them  with  a  sponge,  applied 
several  times,  to  equalize  the  moisture. 


1571.  After  this  operation,  arrange  your  time  so  that3''our 
designs  may  now  be  finally  left  to  dry  for  fifteen  minutes  be- 
fore application  to  the  glass,  the  varnish  on  which  has  now  be- 
come tacky  or  sticky,  and  in  a  proper  state  to  receive  them. 


1572.   Apply  the  printed   side   next  to  the  glass   v^itliout 
pressure  ;  endeavor  to   let  your   sheet  fall  perfectly  level  and 
smooth  on  your  glass  so  that  you  may  avoid  leaving  creases, 
which  would  be  fatal 
26 


402  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the   million. 

15^13.  Take  now  your  palette,  lay  it  flat  on  the  design,  and 
press  out  all  the  air  bubbles,  commencing  in  the  centre,  and 
working  them  out  from  the  sides;  an  ivory  stick  will  be  found 
useful  in  removing  creases  ;  you  now  leave  this  to  dry,  and 
after  twenty-four  hours  apply  a  slight  coat  of  the  liqueur  dia- 
phace,  leaving  it  another  day,  when  if  dry,  apply  a  second 
coat  of  the  same  kind,  which  must  be  left  several  days  :  finally, 
apply  a  coat  of  varnish  over  all. 

15T4.  If  these  directions  are  carefully  followed,  your  glass 
will  never  be  affected  by  time  or  by  any  variations  in  the 
weather :  it  will  defy  hail,  rain,  frost  and  dust,  and  can  be 
washed  the  same  as  any  ordinary  stained  glass,  to  which,  in 
some  respects,  it  is  even  superior. 


1515.  It  is  impossible  to  enumerate  the  variety  of  articles 
to  the  manufacture  of  which  Diaphanie  may  be  successfully 
applied,  as  it  is  not  confined  to  glass,  but  can  be  done  on 
silk,  parchment,  paper,  linen,  &c.,  after  they  have  been  made 
transparent,  which  may  be  accomplished  in  the  following 
manner: — 


15 Y 6.  Stretch  your  paper,  or  whatever  it  may  be,  on  a  frame 
or  drawing  board,  then  apply  two  successive  coats  (a  day  be- 
tween each,)  of  diaphanous  liquor,  and  after  leaving  it  to  dry 
for  several  days,  cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  very  clear  size, 
and  when  dry  it  will  be  in  a  fit  state  to  receive  the  coat  of  var- 
nish and  the  desisrns. 


1511.  Silk,  linen,  or  other  stuffs,  should  be  more  carefully 
stretched,  and  receive  a  thicker  coat  of  size  than  paper  or 
parchment ;  the  latter  may  be  strained  on  a  drawing  or  any 
other  smooth  board,  by  damping  the  sheet,  and  after  pasting 
the  edges,  stretching  it  down  while  damp.  Silk,  linen,  and 
other  stuffs  require  to  be  carefully  stretched  on  a  knitting  or 
other  suitable  frame. 


1518.  Take  great  care  to  allow,  whatever  you  use,  time  to 
dry  before  applying  the  liqueur  diaphane. 


1519.  All  kinds  of  screens,  lamp-shades,  and  glasses,  Ian- 


FEATHER    FLOWERS.  403 

terns,  &c.,  &c.,  may  be  made  in  this  way,  as  heat  will  produce 
no  effect  upon  them. 

1580.  The  transparent  pictures  are  successful,  because  tney 
may  be  hung  on  a  window  frame  or  removed  at  will,  and  the 
window  blinds  are  far  superior  to  any  thing  of  that  kind  that 
have  yet  been  seen. 


1581.  Instead  of  steeping  the  designs  in  the  transparent 
liquor  at  the  time  of  printing  them,  which  was  previously  done 
in  order  to  show  their  transparency  to  the  purchaser,  but 
which  was  practically  objectionable,  as  the  paper  in  that  state 
was  brittle,  and  devoid  of  pliancy,  necessitating  also  the  use 
of  a  peculiarly  difficult  vehicle  to  manage  (varnish)  in  apply- 
ing it  to  the  glass,  the  manufacturer  now  prepares  his  paper 
differently,  in  order  to  allow  the  use  of  parchment  size  in 
sticking  them  on  the  glass. 


1582.  The  liqueur  diaphane,  which  is  finally  applied,  ren- 
ders them  perfectly  transparent.  In  this  mode  of  operation, 
no  delay  is  requisite,  the  designs  being  applied  to  the  glass 
immediately  after  laying  on  the  size,  taking  care  to  press  out 
all  the  air  bubbles,  for  which  purpose  a  roller  will  be  found 
indispensable. 


1583.  The  designs  should  be  damped  before  the  size  is 
applied  to  them.  We  are  of  opinion  that  this  art  may  be 
applied  to  the  production  of  Iftagic-lantern  slides,  dissolving 
views,  and  dioramic  effects  ;  though  we  are  not  aware  whether 
such  experiments  have  been  tried. 


FEATHER   FLOWERS. 

1584.  The  art  of  making  feather  flowers,  though  a  very  easy 
and  inexpensive  accomplishment,  and  yielding  pretty  orna- 
ments for  the  mantel-piece  or  the  chiffonier,  is  but  little 
pursued. 


1585.   Many  persons  are  under  the  impression   that  they 
can  only  be  made  from  the  feathers  of  exotic  birds,  and  that 


404  MRS-  bale's  eecetpts   for  the  milliox. 

these  are  expensive.     But  the  following  instructions  will  clis-« 
pel  this  misconception,  and  remove  the  difficulty. 

1586.  Procure  the  best  white  geese  or  swans'  feathers,  have 
them  plucked  off  the  fowl  with  care  not  to  break  the  web,  free 
them  from  down,  except  a  small  quantity  on  the  shaft  of  the 
feather. 


1581.  Having  procured  two  good  specimens  of  the  flower 
you  wish  to  imitate,  carefully  pull  oCf  the  petals  of  one,  and, 
with  a  piece  of  tissue  paper,  cut  out  the  shape  of  each  size, 
taking  care  to  leave  the  shaft  of  the  feather  at  least  half  an 
inch  longer  than  the  petal  of  the  flovser. 


1588.  .Carefully  bend  the  feather  with  the  thumb  and  finger 
to  the  proper  shape;  mind  not  to  break  the  web. 


1589.  To  make  the  Stem  and  Heart  of  a  Floicer. — Take 
a  piece  of  wire  six  inches  long  :  across  the  top  lay  a  small 
piece  of  cotton  wool,  turn  the  wir6  over  it,  and  wind  it  round 
until  it  is  the  size  of  the  lieart  or  centre  of  the  flower  you  aro 
GCoino;  to  imitate. 


1590.  If  a  single  flower,  cover  it  with  paste  or  velvet  of  the 
proper  color,  and  round  it  must  be  arranged  the  stamens; 
these  are  made  of  fine  India  silk,  or  feathers  may  be  used  for 
this  purpose. 


1591.  After  the  petals  have  been  attached,  the  silk  or  fea- 
ther is  dipped  into  gum,  and  then  into  the  farina.  Place  the 
petals  round,  one  at  a  time,  and  wind  them  on  with  Moravian 
cotton,  jSiO.  4 ;  arrange  them  as  nearly  like  the  flower  you 
have  for  a  copy  as  possible. 


1592.  Cut  the  stems  of  the  feathers  even,  and  then  make  the 
calix  of  feathers,  cut  like  the  ])attern  or  natural  flower.  For 
the  small  flowers,  the  calix  is  made  with  paste.  Cover  the 
stems  with  paper  or  silk  the  same  as  the  flowers  ;  the  paper 
must  be  cut  in  narrow  strips,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide. 


1593.    To  make  the  Pastes  of  the  Calix,  Hearts,  and  Buds 
of  Floxcers. — Take  common  white  starch,  and  mix  it  with  gum 


FEATHER    FLOWERS.  405 

water  until  it  is  the  substance  of  thick  treacle  ;  color  it  with 
the  dyes  used  for  the  feathers,  and  keep  it  from  the  air. 

1594.  To  make  the  Farina.- — Use  common  p^round  rice, 
mixed  into  a  stiff  paste  with  any  dye  ;  dry  it  before  the  fire, 
and  when  quite  hard)  pound  it  to  a  fine  powder* 

1595.  The  buds,  berries,  and  hearts  of  some  double  flowers 
are  made  with  cotton  wool,  wound  around  wire,  moulded  to 
the  shape  with  thumb  and  finger. 


1596.  Smooth  it  over  with  gum  water,  ♦nd  when  dry  cover 
the  buds,  berries,  or  calix  with  the  proper  colored  pastes  ; 
they  will  require  one  or  two  coats,  and  may  be  shaded  with  a 
little  paint,  and  then  gummed  and  left  to  dry. 


1597.  Flowers  of  two  or  more  shades  or  colors  are  varie- 
gated with  water-colors,  mixed  with  lemon-juice,  ultra-marine 
and  chrome  for  blue,  and  gold  may  also  be  used  in  powder, 
mixed  with  lemon-juice  and  gum  water. 


1598.  The  materials  required  are  some  good  white  goose 
or  swan's  feathers  ;  a  little  fine  wire,  diflferent  sizes  ;  a  few 
skeins  of  fine  floss  silk,  some  good  cotton  wool  or  wadding,  a 
reel  of  No.  4  Moravian  cotton,  a  skein  of  India  silk,  the  starch 
and  gum  for  pastes,  and  a  pair  of  small  sharp  scissors,  a  few 
sheets  of  colored  silk  paper,  and  some  water-colors,  with  the 
following  dyes : — 


1599.  To  Dye  Feathers  Blue. — Into  two  pennyworths  of 
oil  of  vitriol,  mix  two  pennyworths  of  the  best  indigo  in  pow- 
der ;  let  it  stand  a  day  or  two  ;  when  wanted  shake  it  well, 
and  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  put  one  tablespoonful  of  the 
liquid. 


1600.  Stir  it  well,  put  the  feathers  in,  and  let  them  simmer 
a  few  minutes. 


1601.    Yellow. — Put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  best  turmeric  into 
a  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  when  well  mixed,  put  in  the  feathers. 


1602.  More  or  less  of  the  turmeric  will  give  them  different 


406  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

shades,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  soda  will  give  then:i  an 
orange  hue. 


1603.  Green. — Mix  the  indigo  liquor  With  turmeric,  and 
pour  boiling  water  over  it ;  let  the  feathers  simmer  in  the  dye 
until  they  have  acquired  the   shade  you   want   them.     (See 

289.) 


1604.  Pii^k. — Three  good  pink  saucers  in  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  with  a  small  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar.  If  a  deep 
color  is  required,  use  four  saucers.  Let  the  feathers  remain 
in  the  dye  several -fcours. 


1605.  Bed. — Into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  dissolve  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  put  in  one  tablespoonfnl  of  pre- 
pared cochineal,  and  then  a  few  drops  of  muriate  of  tin. 


1606.  This  dye  is  expensive,  and  scarlet  flowers  are  best 
made  with  the  plumage  of  the  red  Ibis,  which  cau  generally  be 
had  of  a  bird-fancier  or  bird-stufifer,  who  will  give  directions 
how  it  may  be  applied. 

1601.  Lilac. — About  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cudbear,  into 
about  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  let  it  siir.mer  a  few  minutes 
before  you  put  in  the  feathers.  A  small  quantity  of  cream  of 
tartar  turns  the  color  from  lilac  to  amethyst. 


1608.  Black. — Use  the  same  as  for  cloth. 


1609.  Crimson. — Dip  in  acetate  of  alumina  mordant,  then 
in  a  boiling-hot  decoction  of  Brazil  wood — and,  last  of  all, 
pass  through  a  bath  of  cudbear. 


1610.  Before  the  feathers  are  dyed  they  must  be  put  into 
hot  water,  and  let  them  drain  before  they  are  put  into  the 
dyes. 


1611.  After  the  feathers  are  taken  out  of  the  dye,  rinse 
them  two  or  three  times  in  clear  cold  water  (except  the  red), 
which  must  only  be  done  once.  Then  lay  them  on  a  tray, 
over  which  a  cloth  has  been  spread,  before  a  good  fire  ;   when 


SEA-WEED.  40'[ 

they  begin  to   dry  and  unfold,  draw  each  feather  gently  be- 
tween your  thumb  and  finger,  until  it  regains  its  proper  shape. 

1612.  The  leaves  of  the  flowers  are  made  of  green  feathers, 
cut  like  those  of  the  natural  flower,  and  serrated  at  the  edge 
with  a  very  small  pair  of  scissors. 


1613.  For  the  calix  of  a  moss-rose  the  down  is  left  on  the 
feather,  and  is  a  very  good  representation  of  the  moss  on  the 
natural  flower. 


1614.    To  Preserve  Sea-Weed. — This  is  a  delicate  process, 
and  may  be  made  like  beautiful  pictures. 


1615.  First  Process. — Wash  the  sea*  weed  in  fresh  water, 
then  take  a  plate  or  dish  (the  larger  the  better),  cut  your 
paper  to  the  size  required,  place  it  on  the  plate  with  fresh 
water,  and  spread  out  the  plant  with  a  good  sized  camel-hair 
pencil  in  a  natural  form.  Picking  out  with  the  pin  gives  the 
sea-weed  an  unnatural  appearance,  and  destroys  the  charac- 
teristic fall  of  the  branches,  which  should  be  carefully  avoided. 


1616.  Then  gently  raise  the  paper  with  the  specimen  out 
of  the  water,  placing  it  in  a  slanting  position  for  a  few  mo- 
ments, so  as  to  allow  the  superabundant  water  to  run  off:  after 
which  place  it  in  the  press. 

1617.  The  Press. — The  press  is  made  with  either  three 
pieces  of  board  or  pasteboard.  Lay  on  the  first  board  two 
sheets  of  blotting-paper  ;  on  that  lay  your  specimens  ;  place 
straight  and  smooth  over  them  a  piece  of  old  muslin,  fine  cam- 
bric, or  linen  :  then  some  more  blotting-paper,  and  place  an- 
other board  on  the  top  of  that,  and  continue  in  the  same 
way. 


1618.  The  Finishing. — The  blotting-paper  and  the  muslin 
should  be  carefully  removed  and  dried  every  day,  and  then 
replaced:  at  the  same  time,  those  specimens  that  are  suffi- 
ciently dried  may  be  taken  away.  Nothing  now  remains  but 
to  write  on  each  the  name,  date,  and  locality. 


1619.    The  Sj^ecimens. — You  can  either  gum  the  spccuncns 


408  MES.  Hale's  receipts   fop.  the  milliox. 

in  a  scrap-book,  or  fix  them  in,  as  drawings  are  often  fastened, 
bv  making  four  slits  in  the  page,  and  inserting  each  corner. 

1620.  This  is  by  far  the  best  plan,  as  it  admits  of  their  re- 
moval, without  injury  to  the  page,  at  any  future  period,  if  it 
be  required  either  to  insert  better  specimens,  or  intermediate 
species.  Some  of  the  larger  Alg*  will  not  adhere  to  the 
paper,  and  consequently  require  gumming. 


1621.  Another  Way. — After  w^ell  cleaning  and  pressing, 
brush  the  coarser  kinds  of  Algse  over  with  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, in  which  two  or  three  small  lumps  of  gum  mastic  liave 
been  dissolved,  by  shaking  in  a  warm  place  ;  two-thirds  of  a 
smalt  phial  is  the  groper  proportion,  and  this  will  make  the 
specimens  retain  a  fresh  appearance. 


BOTAXICAL    SPECIMENS,    LEAF    IMPRESSIONS, 

ETC. 

1622.  The  plants  you  wish  to  preserve  should  be  gathered 
when  the  weather  is  dry,  and  after  placing  the  ends  in  water, 
them  remain  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day. 


1623.  When  about  to  be  submitted  to  the  process  of  dry- 
ing, place  each  plant  between  several  sheets  of  blotting-paper, 
and  iron  it  with  a  large  smooth  heater,  pretty  strongly 
warmed,  till  all  the  moisture  is  dissipated. 


1624.  Colors  may  thus  be  fixed,  which  otherwise  become 
pale,  or  nearly  white. 


1625.  Some  plants  require  more  moderate  heat  than  others, 
and  herein  consists  the  nicety  of  the  experiment;  but  I  have 
generally  found,  that  if  the  iron  be  not  too  hot,  and  is  passed 
rapidly^  vet  carefully,  over  the  surface  of  the  blotting-paper, 
it  answers  the  purpose  equally  well  with  plants  of  almost  every 
Yarietv  of  hue  and  thickness. 


1626.  In  compound  flowers,  with  those  also  of  a  stubborn 
and  solid  form  as  the  Centaurea,  some  little  art  is  required  iu 


PEESEKVATIOX    OF    BOTANICAL    SPKCIMENS.  409 

cutting  away  the  under  part,  by  which  means  the  profile  and 
forms  of  the  flowers  will  be  more  distinctly  exhibited. 


1G27.  This  is  especially  necessary,  when  the  method  em- 
ployed by  Major  Yelley  is  adopted :  viz.,  to  fix  the  flowers 
and  fructificatiun  down  with  gain  upon  the  paper  previous  to 
ironing,  by  which  means  they  become  almost  incorporated 
with  the  surface. 


1628.  When  this  very  delicate  process  is  attempted,  blot- 
ting-paper should  be  laid  under  every  part  excepting  the  blos- 
soms, in  order  to  prevent  staining  the  white  paper.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  to  keep  preserved  specimens  in  a  dry 
place. 


1629.  Skeleton  leaves  may  be  made  by  steeping  leaves  in 
rain  water,  in  an  open  vessel,  exposed  to  the  air  and  sun. 
Water  must  occasionally  be  added  to  compensate  loss  by 
evaporation. 


1630.  The  leaves  will  putrefy,  and  then  their  membranes 
will  begin  to  open  ;  then  lay  them  on  a  clean  white  plate, 
filled  with  clean  water,  and  with  gentle  touches  take  off  the 
external  membranes,  separating  them  cautiously  near  the 
middle  rib.  When  there  is  an  opening  toward  the  latter  the 
whole  membrane  separates  easily. 


1631.  The  process  requires  a  great  deal  of  patience,  as 
ample  time  must  be  given  for  the  vegetable  tissues  to  decay, 
and  separate. 

1632.  A  more  Expeditious  Method. — A  tublespoonful  of 
chlorid  of  lime  in  a  liquid  state,  mixed  with  a  quart  of  pure 
spring  water. 


1633.  Leaves  or  seed-vessels  of  plants  to  be  soaked  in  the 
mixture  for  about  four  hours,  then  taken  out  and  well  washed 
in  a  jarge  basin  filled  with  water,  after  wliich  they  should  be 
left  to  dry  with  free  exposure  to  light  and  air. 


•  1634.  Some  of  the  largest  species  of  forest  leaves,  or  such 
as  have  strong  ribs,  will  require  to  be  hjft  rather  more  than 
four  hours  in  the  liquid. 


410  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

1635.  Dwarf  Plants. — Take  a  cutting  of  the  plant  you  wish 
to  dwarf,  say  a  myrtle,  for  instance,  and  having  set  it  in  a 
pot,  wait  until  you  are  satisfied  that  it  has  taken  root ;  then 
take  a  cutting  from  it,  and  place  it  in  a  miniature  flower-pot, 
taking  care  to  fill  it  more  than  three  parts  with  fine  sand,  the 
remainder  with  mould. 


1636.  Put  it  under  a  glass  on  the  chimney-piece,  or  in  any 
warm  place,  and  give  it  very  small  quantities  of  water. 


1637.  Preserve  i^'^wn^^.— Receipt  of  the  celebrated  botanist, 
William  Withering,  Esq.,  by  which  specimens  of  fungi  may  be 
beautifully  preserved. 


1638.  Take  two  ounces  of  sulphate  of  copper,  or  blue  vit- 
riol, and  reduce  it  to  powder,  and  pour  upon  it  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  when  cold,  add  half  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine  ; 
cork  it  well,  and  call  it  'Hhe  pickle.'' 


1639.  To  eight  pints  of  water  add  one  pint  and-  a-half  of 
spirits  of  wine,  and  call  it  ^' the  liquor." 

1640.  Be  provided  with  a  a  number  of  wide-mouthed  bottles 
of  different  sizes,  all  well  fitted  with  corks.  The  fungi  should 
be  left  on  the  table  as  long  as  possible  to  allow  the  moisture 
to  evaporate. 


1641.  They  should  then  be  placed  in  the  pickle  for  three 
hours,  or  longer,  if  necessary ;  then  place  them  in  the  bottles 
intended*  for  their  reception,  and  fill  with  the  liquor. 


1642.  They  should  then  be   well  corked  an^   sealed,  and 
arranged  in  order  with  their  names  in  front  of  the  bottles. 


1643.  Leaf  Impressions. — Hold  oiled  paper  in  the  smoke 
of  a  lamp,  or  of  pitch,  until  it  becomes  coated  with  the  smoke  ; 
to  this  paper  apply  the  leaf  of  which  you  wish  an  impression, 
having  previously  warmed  it  between  your  hands,  that  it  may 
be  pliable. 


1644.  Place  the  lower  surface  of  the  leaf  upon  the  blackened 
surface  of  the  oil  paper,  that  the  numerous  veins  that  are  so 


PRESERVATION    OF    BOTANICAL    SPECIMEN  ST  411 

prominent  on  this  side  may  receive  from  the  paper  a  portion 
of  the  smoke. 


1645.  Lay  a  paper  over  the  leaf,  and  then  press  it  gently 
upon  the  smoked  paper,  with  the  fingers,  or  with  a  small  roller, 
(covered  with  woolen  cloth,  or  some  like  soft  material),  so  that 
every  part  of  the  leaf  may  come  in  contact  with  the  sooted  oil- 
paper. 


1646.  A  coatin«:  of  the  smoke  will  adhere  to  the  leaf. 


1647.  Then  remove  the  leaf  barefully,  and  place  the  black- 
ened surface  on  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  not  ruled,  or  in  a  book 
prepared  for  the  purpose,,  covering  the  leaf  with  a  clean  slip 
of  paper,  and  pressing  upon  it  with  the  fingers,  or  roller,  as 
bqfore. 


1648.  Thus  may  be  obtained  the  impression  of  a  leaf,  show- 
ing the  perfect  outlines,  together  with  an  accurate  exhibition 
of  the  veins  which  extend  in  every  direction  through  it,  more 
correctly  than  the  finest  drawing. 


1649.  This  process  is  so  simple,  and  the  material  so  easily 
obtained,  that  any  person,  with  a  little  practice  to  enable  hito 
to  apply  the  right  quantity  of  smoke  to  the  oil-paper,  and  give 
the  leaf  a  proper  pressure,  can  prepare  beautiful  leaf  impres- 
sions, such  as  a  naturalist  would  be  proud  to  possess. 


1650.  There  is  another,  and  we  think,  a  better  method  of 
taking  leaf  impressions  than  the  preceding  one. 


1651.  Leaf  Impressions  in  Ink. — After  warming  the  leaf 
between  the  hands,  apply  printing  ink,  by  means  of  a  small 
leather  ball  containing  cotton,  or  some  soft  substance,  or  with 
the  end  of  the  fin«:er. 


"o"- 


1652.  The  leather  ball  (and  the  finger  when  used  for  that 
purpose),  after  the  ink  is  applied  to  it,  should  be  pressed  sev- 
eral times  on  a  piece  of  leather,  or  some  smooth  surface,  before 
each  application  to  the  leaf,  that  the  ink  may  be  smootlily  and 
evenly  applied. 


412  MRS.   SALENS    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1653.  After  the  under  surface  of  the  leaf  has  been  sufBciently 
inked,  apply  it  to  the  paper,  where  you  wish  the  impression  ; 
and  after  covering  it  with  a  slip  of  paper,  use  the  hand  or 
roller  to  press  upon  it,  as  described  in  the  former  process. 
(See  ni,  page  176.) 


1654.  Impressions  from  Coins. — Melt  a  little  isinglass  glue 
with  brandy,  and  pour  it  thinly  over  the  medal,  &c.,  so  as  to 
cover  its  whole  surface;  let  it  remain  on  for  a  day  or  two,  till 
it  has  thoroughly  dried  and  hardened,  and  then  take  it  oil', 
when  it  will  be  fine,  clear,  and  as  hard  as  a  piece  of  Muscovy 
glass,  and  will  have  a  very  elegant  impression  of  the  coin.  It 
will  also  resist  the  effects  of  damp  air,  which  occasions  all 
other  kinds  of  glue  to  soften  and  bend;  if  not  prepared  in  this 
way. 


TRANSFERHING  TO  GLASS,  WOOD,  Etc. 

1655.  The  process  of  transferring  consists  in  causing  the  ink 
of  a  print,  engraving,  mezzotint,  or  lithograph,  to  adhere  to  the 
surface  of  glass,  wood,  cardboard,  ivory,  or  earthenware,  which 
is  effected  by  cementing  the  face  of  the  prints  to  their  surface 
by  means  of  some  varnish  or  glutinous  transparent  body  that 
will  not  dissolve  in  water,  and  then  destroying  the  texture  of 
the  paper,  so  as  to  leave  the  ink  upon  the  varnish  and  material 
operated  on,  in  the  same  manner  as  if  the  original  impression 
had  been  there,  but  of  course  reversed. 


1656.  Materials. — The  body  to  which  the  print  is  to  be 
transferred.  '^ 


165Y.  Spirits  and  oil  of  turpentine;  oil  and  varnish  colors; 
seed-lac,  white  and  transfer  varnishes  ;  oil  of  almonds  ;  spirit 
of  wine  ;  a  flat  and  a  round  brush,  and  a  towel 


The  Varnishes. — The  seed-lac  and  white  varnishes. 


1658.  The  Transfer  Varnish. — Take  five  ounces  of  the 
best  spirit  of  wine,  add  four  ounces  of  the  purified  Venice 
turpentine  to  it,  and  an  ounce  of  picked  mastic  tears  ;  put 
them  into  a  bottle,  shake  constantly  until  the  mastic  and  tur- 
pentine dissolve,  and  in  a  few  hours  it  will  be  fit  for  use, 
but  improves  by  keeping. 


TRANSFERRING    TO    GLASS,   WOOD,   ETC.  413 

1659.  To  Transfer  to  Glass. — Procure  a  piece  of  the  best 
crown-glass,  as  near  as  possible  in  size  and  shape  to  the  print 
to  be  transferred,  varnish  it  over  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  spirits  and  oil  of  turpentine,  and  lay  the  print  on  the  glass, 
beginning  at  one  end,  and  pressing  it  gently  down  with  a 
towel  in  every  part  in  proceeding  to  the  other. 


1660.  If  this  is  not  done  carefully,  vesicles  of  air  will  be 
admitted  between  the  paper  and  glass,  and  mar  the  effect. 
After  pressing  the  print  down  with  the  towel,  it  is  to  be  set 
aside  to  dry,  which  will  take  some  time,  varying  according  to 
the  state  of  the  atmosphere. 


1661.  When  the  turpentine  has  become  perfectly  hard,  the 
paper  must  be  moistened  with  water  till  it  is  thoroughly  satu- 
rated, and  the  paper  entirely  removed  by  rubUing  very  gently 
with  the  forefinger  in  a  circular  direction,  and  then  set  aside 
to  dry,  when  the  impression  will  be  found  perfectly  transferred, 
but  reversed. 


1662.  If  it  is  wished  to  preserve  only  the  appearance  of  an 
engraving,  a  sheet  of  white  paper  or  Bristol-board  must  be 
placed  behind  the  glass;  but  if  required  to  be  colored,  the 
operation  must  be  completed  with  oil  or  varnish  colors,  in  such 
a  manner  as  may  impart  to  it  the  semblance  of  a  painting. 


1663.  To  Transfer  to  Wood. — Procure  a  piece  of  wood  of 
the  required  form  and  size  ;  if  flat,  it  should  be  newly  planed, 
and  rubbed  down  with  pumice-stone  and  fine  sand-paper  to 
make  it  perfectly  smooth  and  free* from  grease  ;  if  rounded  oi 
any  other  shape,  it  should  be  scraped  with  a  piece  of  glass, 
then  pumiced  and  sand-papered. 


1664.  Give  the  wood  a  coat  of  transfer  varnish  previous  to 
transferring,  and  set  aside  for  tvventy-four. hours  to  dry. 


1665.  This  promotes  adhesion  of  the  print  to  the  wood,  and 
secures  the  latter  from  bein":  soiled. 


1666.  Cut  off  the  white  margin  of  the  print,  then  damp  it 
by  placing  it  face  upward  on  the  surface  of  some  water  in  o 
shallow  vessel,  taking  care  to  keep  the  face  or  printed  side 


414  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

dry ;  when  properly  soaked,  pass  a  spong:e  over  the  back, 
spread  a  coat  of  varnish  over  the  whole  of  the  face,  and  apply 
immediately  to  the  wood. 


1667.  Rub  down  the  whole  gently  with  a  towel,  in  the  same 
manner  as  directed  for  glass,  so  that  it  may  adhere  properly. 
When  this  has  been  done,  and  while  the  back  is  yet  moist,  nib 
it  carefully  with  the  forefinger  until  half  the  thickness  of  the 
paper  is  removed,  then  leave  it  to  dry. 


1668.  Then  wet  the  finger  only,  and  keep  rubbing  until  the 
remainder  of  the  paper  is  removed,  and  there  is  a  thin  white 
film  over  all,  allowing  the  print  to  appear  clean  through ;  then 
let  it  dry,  and  bring  out  with  a  little  oil  of  almonds ;  ufter 
which  apply  a  coat  of  carriage- varnish,  or  the  seed-lac  and 
animi  varnish  used  for  white  japan  grounds,  though  we  prefer 
the  transfer-varnish  ourselves. 


1669.  Great  care  and  patience  must  be  exercised  during  the 
process  of  rubbing  off,  to  avoid  scratching  or  tearing  the 
print ;  if,  however,  any  part  is  destroyed,  it  must  be  repaired 
with  the  same  color. 


1670.  In  this  manner  plain  or  colored  prints  may  be  trans- 
ferred from  paper  to  wood. 


16^71.  When  colored  prints  are  transferred,  they  should  be 
laid  on  vinegar  and  water  (two-thirds  of  the  former  and  one 
of  the  latter),  to  destroy  thQ  size  which  is  in  the  paper,  and 
remain  twice  as  long  as  plain  prints  ;  then  removed  and  placed 
between  blotting-paper,  and  when  the  superfluous  moisture 
has  been  removed,  treate.d  the  same  as  the  other  prints. 


1612.    To  Clean  the  Brushes  and  your  hands  after  using  the 
varnishes,  rub  with  spirit  of  wine. 


1613.    To  Transfer  to  Ivory, — Rub  well  with  pumice-stone, 
and  then  transfer  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  above. 


1674.  To  Transfer  to  Card-hoard. — Remove  the  sizing  on 
the  surface  by  immersing  in  the  vinegar  and  water  mentioned 
above,  then  transfer  as  usual. 


EMBLEMATIC    STONES.  4l5 

1675.   To  Transfer  to  Earthenware. — ixive  the  article  a  thin 
coating  of  varnish,  then  transfer  as  directed  above. 


16Y6.  Etching  on  Glass. — Mix  in  a  gallipot  a  little  sul- 
phuric acid  and  lampblack  to  a  thin  smooth  paste,  and  spread 
a  layer  of  it  on  a  piece  of  glass  ;  upon  which  trace  with  a 
sharp-pointed  instrument,  (penetrating  to  the  glass,)  any  de- 
sign which  may  suggest  itself. 

1671.  Then  dissolve  a  little  fluor-spar,  coarsely  powdered, 
in  spirit  of  turpentine,  and  with  a  camePs-hair  brush  lay  some 
of  the  solution  upon  the  parts  so  traced  ;  let  it  remain  an  hour 
or  two  ;  and  you  will  find,  on  scraping  off  the  paste,  that  the 
glass  will  be  etched  with  whatever  forms  you  have  traced. 


1678.  Very  pleasing  drawings  may  thus  be  etched  upon 
glass  ;  and  they  may  be  rendered  more  effective  by  dusting  the 
outline  with  a  little  vermilion. 


EMBLEMATIC    STONES. 

1679.  The  Jeivels  of  the  Months. — In  Poland,  according 
to  a  superstitious  belief,  each  month  of  the  year  is  under  the 
influence  of  some  precious  stone,  which  influence  is  attached 
to  the  destiny  of  persons  born  during  the  course  of  the  month. 


1680.  It  is,  in  consequence,  customary  amongst  friends,  and 
more  particularly  between  lovers,  to  make,  on  birthdays,  re- 
ciprocal presents,  consisting  of  some  jewel  ornamented  with 
the  tutelar  stone.  It  is  generally  believed  that  this  prediction 
of  happiness,  or  rather  of  the  future  destiny,  will  be  realized 
according  to  the  wishes  expressed  on  the  occasion. 


1681.  January. — The  stone  of  January  is  the  Jacinth,  or 
Garnet,  which  denotes  constancy  and  fidelity  in  any  sort  of 
engagement. 


1682.  February. — The  Amethyst,  a  preservative  against  vi- 
olent passions,  and  an  assurance  of  peace  of  mind  and  sincerity. 


1683.  March. — The  Bloodstone  is  the  stone  of  courage  and 
wisdom  in  perilous  undertakings,  and  firmness  in  aflection. 


416  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1684.  ApinL— The  Sapphire,  or  Diamond,  is  the  stone  of 
repentance,  innocence,  and  kindliness  of  disposition. 


1685.   May. — The  Emerald.     This  stone  signifies  happiness 
in  love,  and  domestic  felicitv. 


1686.  June. — The  Agate  is  the  stone  of  long  life,  health, 
and  prosperity. 


168Y.  July. — The  Ruby,  or  Cornelian,  denotes  forgetf illness 
of,  and  exemption  from,  the  vexations  caused  by  friendship  and 
love. 


1688.  August.— The  Sardonyx.     This  stone  denotes  conju- 
gal felicity. 


1689.   Sepiemher. — The  Chrysolite  is  the  stone  which  pre- 
serves and  cures  madness  and  despair. 


1690.   October. — The  Aqua- Marine,  or  Opal,  signifies  dis- 
tress and  hope. 


1691.  November. — The  Topaz  signifies  fidelity  and  friendshp. 


1692.  December. — The  Turquoise  is  the  stone  which  ex- 
presses great  sureness  and  prosperity  in  love,  and  in  all  the 
circumstances  of  life. 


STAIXING. 

1693.  General  Observations. — \^ hen  alabaster,  marble,  vmA 
other  stones,  are  colored,  and  the  stain  is  required  to  be  deep, 
it  should  be  poured  on  boiling-hot,  and  brushed  equally  over 
every  part  if  made  with  water ;  if  with  spirit,  it  should  be  ap- 
plied cold,  otherwise  the  evaporation,  being  too  rapid,  would 
leave  the  coloring  matter  on  the  surface,  without  any,  or  very 
little,  being  able  to  penetrate. 


1694.  In  grayish  or  brownish  stones,  the  stain  will  be  want- 
ing in  brightness,  because  the  natural  color  combines  with  the 
stain  ;  therefore,  if  the  stone  be- of  a  pure  color,  the  result  will 
be  a  combination  of  the  color  and  stain. 


STAININGK  417 

1695.  Bone  or  Ivory. — In  staining  bone  or  ivory,  the  colors 
will  take  better  before  than  after  polishing ;  and  if  any  dark 
spots  appear,  they  should  be  rubbed  with  chalk,  an^  the  article 
dyed  again  to  produce  uniformity  of  shade.  On  removal  from 
the  boiling-hot  dye-bath,  the  bone  should  be  immediately 
plunged  into  cold  water,  to  prevent  cracks  from  the  heat. 

1696.  Paper  or  Parchment  is  stained  ;  a  broad  varnish  brush 
should  be  employed  to  lay  the  coloring^.on  evenly. 

169t.  Wood. — When  the  stains  for  wood  are  required  to  be 
very  strong,  it  is  better  to  soak  and  not  brush  them ;  therefore 
if  for  inlaying  or  fine  work,  the  wood  should  be  previously 
split  or  sawn  into  proper  thicknesses,  and  when  directed  to  be 
brushed  several  times  over  with  the  stains,  it  should  be  allowed 
to  dry  between  each  coating. 


*  1698.  To  Varnish. — When  it  is  wished  to  render  any  of  the 
stains  more  durable  and  beautiful,  the  work  should  be  well 
rubbed  with  Dutch  or  common  rushes  after  it  is  colored,  and 
then  varnished  with  seed-lac  varnish,  or  if  a  better  appearance 
is  desired,  with  three  coats  of  the  same,  or  shellac  varnish. 


1699.  Common  Work  only  requires  frequent  rubbing  with 
linseed  oil  and  woolen  rags.  The  remainder,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  glass,  will  be  treated  of  in  this  paper. 

IT 00.  Alabaster,  Marble  and  Stone,  may  be  stained  of  a 
yellow,  red,  green,  blue,  purple,  black,  or  any  of  the  compound 
colors,  by  the  stains  used  for  wood. 


1701.  Bone  and  Ivory. — Black. — Lay  the  articles  for  several 
hours  in  a  strong  solution  of  nitrate  of  silver,  and  expose  to 
the  light. 


1102.  Boil  the  article  for  some  time  in  a  strained  decoction 
of  logwood,  and  then  steep  it  in  a  solution  of  per-sulphate  or 
acetate  of  iron. 


1703.  Immerse  frequently  in  ink,  until  of  sufficient  depth 
of  color. 

27 


418  MEs.  bale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

n04.  Blue. •'-'I.  Imraerse  for  some  time  in  a  dilute  solution 
of  sulphate  of  indigo — partij  saturated  with  potash — and  it 
will  be  fully  stained.  2.  Steep  in  a  strong  solution  of  sulphate 
of  copper. 


1705.  Green. — 1.  Dip  blue-stained  articles  for  a  short  time 
in  nitro-hjdrochlorate  of  tin,  and  then. in  a  hot  decoction  of 
fustic.  2.  Boil  in  a  solution  of  rerdigris  in  vinegar  until  the 
desired  color  is  obtained. 


1T06.  Bed. — Dip  the  articles  first  in  the  tin  mordant  used 
in  dyeing,  and  then  plunge  into  a  hot  decoction  of  Brazil 
wood — half  a  pound  to  a  gallon  of  water — or  cochineal. 

lYOY.   Steep  in  red  ink  until  sufiQciently  stained. 

1708.  Scarlet. — Use  lac-dye  instead  of  the  preceding. 


1709.    Violet. — Dip*in  the  tin  mordant,  and  then  immerse 
in  a  decoction  of  logwood. 


1710.    Yellow. — Impregnate  with  nitro-hydrochlorate  of  tin, 
and  then  digest  with  heat  in  a  strained  decoction  of  fustic. 


1711.  Second. — Steep  for  twenty-four  hours  in  a  strong  so- 
lution of  the  neutral  chromate  of  potash,  and  then  plunge  for 
some  time  in  a  boiling  solution  of  acetate  of  lead. 


1712.  Third. — Boil. the  articles  in  a  solution  of  alum — a 
pound  to  half  a  gallon — and  then  immerse  for  half  an  hour  in 
the  following  mixture. 


1713.  Take  half  a  pound  of  turmeric,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  pearlash  ;  boil  in  a  gallon  of  water.  When  taken 
from  this,  the  bone  must  be  again  dipped  in  the  alum  solution. 

1714.  Horn  must  be  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  bone 
and  ivory  for  the  various  colors  given  under  that  heading. 


1715.  In  Imitation  of  Tortoise- Shell. — First  steam  and  then 
press  the  horn  into  proper  shapes,  and  afterward  lay  the  fol- 
lowing mixture  on  with  a  small  brush,  in  imitation  of  the 
mottle  of  tortoise-shell. 


STAININa.  419 

IT  16.  Second. — Take  equal  parts  of  quick  lime  and  litharge, 
and  mix  with  strong  soap-lees ;  let  this  remain  until  it  is 
thoroughly  dry,  brush  off,  and  repeat  two  or  three  times,  if 
necessary. 


ITH.   Such  parts  as  are  required  to  be  of  a  reddish  brown, 
should  be  covered  with  a  mixture  of  whiting  and  the  stain. 


1718.  Iron. — Black,  for  Ship^s  Guns,  Shot,  etc. — To  one 
gallon  of  vinegar  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  iron-rust,  let  it 
stand  for  a  week;  then  add  a  pound  of  dry  lamp-black,  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  copperas  ;  stir  it  up  for  a  couple 
of  days. 

1119.  Lay  five  or  six  coats  on  the  gun,  &c.,  with  a  sponge, 
allowing  it  to  dry  well  between  each.  Polish  with  linseed  oil 
and  soft  woolen  rag,  and  it  will  look  like  ebony. 

1120.  Paper  and  Parchment. — Blue, — Stain  it  green  with 
the  verdigris  stain  given  below,  and  brush  over  with  a  solution 
of  pearlash — two  ounces  to  the  pint — till  it  becomes  blue. 


1121.  Use  the  blue  stain  for  wood. 


.   1122.   Green  and  Bed. — The  same  as  for  wood.     (See  111, 
page  118.) 


1123.  Orange. — Brush  over  with  a  tincture  of  turmeric, 
formed  by  infusing  an  ounce  of  the  root  in  a  pint  of  spirits  of 
wine ;  let  this  dry,  and  give  another  coat  of  pearlash  solu- 
tion, made  by  dissolving  two  ounces  of  the  salt  in  a  quart  of 
water. 


1124.  Purple. — Brush  over  with  the  expressed    juice  of 
ripe  privet  berries.     The  same  as  for  wood. 


1125.   Yellow. — Brush  over  with  tincture  of  turmeric 


1126.  Add  anatto  or  dragon^s  blood  to  the  tincture  of  tur- 
meric, and  brush  over  as  usual.     (See  116,  page  118.) 


1121.   Wood. — Black, — Drop  a  little  sulphuric  acid  into 


420  MRS.   HALES    EEOEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

a  small  quantity  of  water,  brush  over  the  wood  and  hold  it  to 
the  fire ;  it  will  be  a  fine  black,  and  receive  a  good  polish. 


1728.  Second. — Take  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  an  ounce  of 
bruised  nut-galls,  of  logwood  chips  and  copperas  each  half  a 
pound — boil  well ;  add  half  an  ounce  of  the  tincture  of  sesqui- 
ehlorid  of  iron,  formerly  called  the  muriated  tincture,  and 
brush  on  hot. 


1729.    Third, — Use  the  stain  given  for  ships'  guns. 


1730.  'Fourth. — Take  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  half  a  pound 
of  dry  lamp-black,  and  three  pounds  of  iron  rust  sifted.  Mix, 
and  let  stand  for  a  week.  Lay  three  coats  of  this  on  hot,  and 
then  rub  with  linseed  oil,  and  you  will  have  a  fine  deep  black. 


1731.  Fifth. — Add  to  the  above  stain  an  ounce  of  nut-galls, 
half  a  pound  of  logwood  chips,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
copperas  ;  lay  on  three  coats,  oil  v/ell,  and  you  will  have  a 
black  stain  that  will  stand  any  kind  of  weather,  and  one  that 
is  well  suited  for  ships'  combings,  &c. 


1732.  Sixth, — Take  a  pound  of  logwood  chips,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  Brazil  wood,  and  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a 
gallon  of  water.  Brush  the  wood  several  times  with  this  de- 
coction while  hot.  Make  a  decoction  of  nut-galls  by  simmer- 
ing gently  for  three  or  four  days  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the 
galls  in  two  quarts  of  water  ;  give  the  wood  three  coats  of  this, 
and  while  wet  lay  on  a  solution  of  sulphate  of  iron  (two  ounces 
to  a  quart),  and  when  dry  oil  or  varnish. 


1733.  Seventh.-^GiYQ  three  coats  with  a  solution  of  copper 
filings  in  aquafortis,  and  repeatedly  brush  over  with  the  log- 
wood decoction,  until  the  greenness  of  the  copper  is  destroyed. 


1734.  Eighth.' — Boil  half  a  pound  of  logwood  chips  in  two 
quarts  of  water,  add  an  ounce  of  pearlash,  and  apply  hot  with 
a  brush.  Then  take  two  quarts  of  the  logwood  decoction,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  verdigris,  and  the  same  of  copperas ;  strain 
and  throw  in  half  a  pound  of  iron  rust.  Brush  the  work  well 
with  this,  and  oil. 


STAINING.  421 

1735.  Blue. — Dissolve  copper  filings  in  aquafortis,  brush 
tlie  wood  with  it,  and  then  go  over  the  work  with  a  hot  solu- 
tion of  pearlash  (two  ounces  to  a  pint  of  water),  till  it  assumes 
a  perfectly  blue  color. 


1Y36.  Boil  a  pound  of  indigo,  two  pounds  of  woad,  and 
three  ounces  of  alum  in  a  gallon  of  water  ;  brush  well  over 
until  thoroughl}^  stained. 


1T3Y.   Green. — Dissolve  verdigris  in    vinegar,  and    brush 
over  with  the  hot  solution  until  of  a  proper  color. 


It38.  Mahogany  Color. — Dark. — 1.  Boil  half  a  pound  of 
madder  and  two  ounces  of  logwood  chips  in  a  gallon  of  water, 
and  brush  well  over  while  hot ;  when  dry,  go  over  the  whole 
with  pearlash  solution,  two  drachms  to  the  quart. 


1739.  Second. — -Put  two  ounces  of  dragon's  blood,  bruised, 
into  a  quart  of  oil  of  turpentine  ;  let  the  bottle  stand  in  a 
warm  place,  shake  frequently,  and,  when  dissolved,  steep  the 
work  in  the  mixture. 


1740.  Light  Bed  Brown. — Boil  half  a  pound  of  madder  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fustic  in  a  gallon  of  water ;  brush  over 
the  work  when  boiling-hot,  until  properly  stained. 


1741.  Second. — The  surface  of  the  work  being  quite  smooth, 
brush  over  with  a  weak  solution  of  aquafortis,  half  an  ounce 
to  the  pint,  and  then  finish  with  the  following: — Put  four 
ounces  and  a  half  of  dragon's  blood  and  an  ounce  of  soda,  both 
well  bruised,  to  three  pints  of  spirit  of  wine ;  let  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place,  shake  frequently,  strain,  and  lay  it  on  with  a  soft 
brush,  repeating  until  of  a  proper  color ;  polish  with  linseed 
oil  or  varnish. 


1742.  Purple. — Brush  the  work  several  times  with  the  log- 
wood decoction  used  for  No.  6  Black,  and  when  dry  give  a 
coat  of  pearlash  solution,  one  drachm  to  a  quart,  taking  care 
to  lay  it  on  evenly. 


1743,  Bed. — 1.  Boil  a  poujiid  of  Brazil  wood  and  an  ounce 
of  pearlash  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  while  hot  brush  over  the 


422  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

work  until  of  a  proper  color.  Dissolve  two  ounces  of  alum  in 
a  quart  of  water,  and  brush  the  solution  over  the  work  before 
it  dries. 


1T44.  Second, — Take  a  gallon  of  the  above  stain,  add  two 
more  ounces  of  pearlash ;  use  hot,  and  brush  often  with  the 
alum  solution. 


1145.  Third. — Use  a  cold  infusion  of  archil,  and  brush 
over  with  the  pearlash  solution  used  for  No.  1  dark  maho- 
gany. 


1746.  In  imitation  of  Rosewood. — 1.  Boil  half  a  pound  of 
logwood  in  three  pints  of  water  till  it  is  of  a  very  dark  red, 
add  half  an  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar ;  stain  the  work  with  the 
liquor  while  boiling  hot,  giving  three  coats  ;  then  with  a  pain- 
ter's graining-brush  form  streaks  with  No.  8  black  stain;  let 
dry,  and  varnish. 


1147.  Second. — Brush  over  with  the  logwood  decoction 
used  for  No.  6  black,  three  or  four  times  ;  put  half  a  pound 
of  iron  filings  into  two  quarts  of  vinegar  ;  then  with  a  graining- 
brush  or  cane,  bruised  at  the  end,  apply  the  iron  filing  solu- 
tion in  the  form  required,  and  polish  with  beeswax  and  tur- 
pentine when  dry,  or  varnish. 


ORNAMENTED   LEATHER  WORK. 

1748.  An  excellent  imitation  of  carved  oak,  suitable  for 
frames,  boxes,  vases,  and  ornaments  in  endless  variety,  may  be 
made  of  a  description  of  leather  called  Basil. 


1749.  The  art  consists  in  simply  cutting  out  this*  material 
in  imitation  of  natural  objects,  and  in  impressing  upon  it  by 
simple  tools,  either  with  or  without  the  aid  of  heat,  such  marks 
and  characteristics  as  are  necessary  to  the  imitation. 


1750.  The  rules  given  with  regard  to  the  imitation  of  leaves 
and  flowers  (1887)  apply  to  Oriiameutal  Leather  Work, 


DYEING.  423 

1751.  Begin  with  a  simple  object,  and  proceed  by  degrees 
to  those  that  are  more  complicated. 


1752.  The  tools  required  are  ivory  or  steel  points  of  various 
sizes,  punches,  and  tin  shapes, "isuch  as  are  used  for  confec- 
tionary. The  points  may  be  made  out  of  the  handles  of  old 
tooth-brushes. 


1753.  Before  cutting  out  the  leaves,  the  leather  should  be 
well  soaked  in  water,  until  it  is  quite  pliable.  When  dry,  it 
will  retain  the  artistic  shape. 


1754.  Cut  out  an  ivy  or  an  oak  leaf,  and  impress  the  veins 
upon  it ;  then  arrange  these  in  groups,  and  afl&x  them  to  frames, 
or  otherwise. 


1755.  Leaves  and  stems  are  fastened  together  by  means  of 
liquid  glue,  and  varnished  with  any  of  the  drying  varnishes,  or 
with  sealing-wax  dissolved  to  a  suitable  consistency  in  spirits 
of  wine. 


1756.  Wire,  cork,  gutta-percha,  bits  or  stems  of  trees,  &c., 
may  severally  be  used  to  aid  in  the  formation  of  groups  of 
buds,  flowers,  seed-vessels,  &c. 


DYEING. 
(see  pages  74,  75,  76.) 

1757.  T>ye  Hair  and  Feathers  Green, — Take  of  verdigris 
or  verditer,  of  each  one  ounce:  gum  water,'one  pint;  mix 
them  well,,  and  dip  the  hair  or  feathers  into  the  mixture,  shak- 
ing them  well  about. 


1759.  Cleansing  Feathers  of  their  Animal  Oil. — The  follow- 
ing receipt  gained  a  premium  from  the  Society  of  Arts  : 


1760.  Take  for  every  gallon  of  clean  water  one  pound  of 
quicklime,  mix  them  well  together,  and  when  the  undissolved 
lime  is  precipitated  in  tine  powder,  pour  off  the  clean  lime- 
water  for  use. 


424  MES.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1161.  Put  the  feathers  to  be  cleaned  in  another  tub,  and 
add  to  them  a  quantity  of  the  clean  lime-water,  sufficient  to 
cover  them  about  three  inches,  when  well  immersed  and  stirred 
about  therein. 


It 62.  The  feathers,  when  thoroughly  moistened,  will  sink 
down,  and  should  remain  in  the  lime-water  three  or  four  days  ; 
after  which  the  foul  liquor  should  be  separated  from  them,  by 
laying  them  in  a  sieve. 


'  1163.  The  feathers  should  be  afterward  well  washed  in 
clean  water,  and  dried  upon  nets,  the  meshes  of  which  may  be 
about  the  fineness  of  cabbage-nets. 


1164.  The  feathers  must  be,  from  time  to  time,  shaken  on 
the  nets,  and  as  they  get  dry  will  fall  through  the  meshes,  and 
are  to  be  collected  for  use.  The  admission  of  air  will  be  ser- 
viceable in  drying. 


1765.  The  process  will  be  completed  in  three  weeks  ;  and 
after  being  thus  prepared,  the  feathers  will  only  require  to  be 
beaten  to  get  rid  of  the  dust. 

1166.  Dyeing  Eggs, — Wrap  the  Qgg  in  crimson  silk  ribbon 
(taking  care  that  no  part  is  uncovered),  tack  it  oh  and  boil  it 
five  minutes,  and  when  it  is  divested  of  j^he  ribbon  the  shell 
will  be  of  a  pretty  mottled  red  ;  any  colored  ribbon  ^oay  be 
used  with  a  very  pretty  effect. 


1161.  Crystallization  upon  Cinders. — Saturate  water,  kept 
boiling,  with  alum  ;  then  set  the  solution  in  a  cool  place,  sus- 
pending a  cinder  in  it,  by  a  hair  or  fine  silk  thread  ;  as  the 
solution  cools,  a  beautiful  crystallization  will  take  placS  upon  the 
cinder,  which  will  resemble  a  specimen  of  mineralogical  spar. 


1168.  Staining  Grasses  and  Mosses. — Take  some  common 
powder-blue,  mix  with  water,  rather  thin  ;  take  dry  moss  and 
dip  it  in,  and  let  it  soak  a  few  minutes,  take  out  and  squeeze 
it — you  will  have  a  blue  moss.  Take  light  chrome  yellow  (as 
there  are  two  sorts),  mix  with  water,  as  before :  with  the  same 
process  you  will  have  a  yellow  moss.  Take  some  of  the  blue 
and  some  of  the  yellow,  mix  with  water,  as  before,  and  you  will 


LAWS    OF     CHESS.  425 

have  a  green  moss.     You  may  have  a  variety  of  shades  by 
adding  or  diminishing  the  yellow. 


THE   GAME    OF   DRAUGHTS. 

1769.  Eules  of  the  Game. — The  nine  laws  for  regulating 
tho  game  of  draughts 'are  as  follows. 

IttO.  Each  player  takes  the  first  move  alternately,  whether 
the  last  game  be  won  or  drawn. 

ITtl.  Any  action  which  prevents  the  adversary  from  having 
a  full  view  of  the  men  is  not  allowed. . 


11'72.  The  player  who  touches  a  man  must  play  him. 

ItTS.  In  case  of  standing  the  huff  ten  minutes,  the  other 
may  call  upon  him  to  play;  and  if,  after  thaJ,  he  delay  above 
five  minutes  longer,  then  he  loses  the  game. 

ITTS.  In  the  losing  game,  the  player  can  insist  upon  his  ad- 
versary taking  all  the  men,  in  case  opportunities  should  present 
themselves  for  their  being  so  taken. 

1  iftG.  To  prevent  unnecessary  delay,  if  one  color  have  no 
pieces,  but  two  kings  on  the  board,  and  the  other  no  piece  but 
cue  king;  the  latter  can  call  upon  the  former  to  win  the  game 
in  twenty  moves ;  if  he  does  not  finish  it  within  that  number 
of  moves,  the  game  to  be  relinquished  as  drawn. 

ItTT.  If  there  are  three  kings  to  two  on  the  board,  the  sub- 
sequent moves  are  not  to  exceed  forty. 


LAWS  OF  CHESS. 

IttS.  The  rules  given  below  ar&  based  upon  the  code  pub- 
lished in  ^^Walker^s  Art  of  Chess  Play.^^  The  word  piece 
frequently  includes  the  pawn. 

1119.  If  the  board  or  pieces  be  improperly  placed,  or  are 
deficient  in  number  (except  in  the  case  of  odds),  the  game 


426  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

must  be  recommenced,  if  the  error  is  discovered  before  the 
fourth  move  on  each  side  (the  eighth  move  of  the  game.)  If 
not  discovered  before  this  stage,  the  game  must  proceed. 

1780.  If  the  player  gives  odds,  and  yet  omits  to  remove  the 
odds  from  the  board  at  the  commencement,  he  may  recom- 
mence the  game,  and  remove  the  odds  given,  provided  he  dis- 
cover his  error  before  playing  his  fourth  move. 


1181.  But  if  he  has  made  his  fourth  move,  the  game  must 
be  played  out;  and  should  the  player  who  agreed  to  give  the 
odds  win  the  game,  it  shall  nevertheless  be  considered  drawn. 


1182.  When  parties  play  even,  they  draw  lots  for  the  first 
move  of  the  first  game.  The  first  move  is  afterward  taken  al- 
ternately throughout  the  sitting,  except  when  a  game  is  drawn, 
when  he  who  had  the  first  move  in  that  game  still  claims  it,  a 
drawn  game  being  of  no  account. 

1183.  He  who  gains  the  move  has  also  the  choice  of  color. 
Each  player  uses  the  same  color  throughout  the  sitting.  When 
a  match  is.  made  for  a  given  number  of  games,  the  move  passes 
alternately  throughout  the  match.  A  player  giving  odds  has 
the  choice  of  men,  and  takes  the  move  in  every  game,  unless 
agreed  to  the  contrary. 

1184.  A  player  who  gives  the  odds  of  a  piece,  may  give  it 
each  game  from  the  king's  or  queen's  side,  at  his  option.  If 
he  gives  the  odds  of  a  paw^n,  he  must  give  the  king's  bishop's 
pawn,  unless  otherwise  stipulated. 

1185.  The  player  who  receives  the  odds  of  a  certain  num- 
ber of  moves  at  the  commencement,  must  not  with  those  moves 
cross  from  his  own  half  of  the  board. 


1186.  If  a  player,  in  his  turn  to  play,  touch  one  of  his  men, 
he  must  move  that  piece,  if  it  can  legally  move,  unless,  when 
be  first  touches  it,  he  says  aloud,  *'t/Wou6e."  No  penalty  is 
attached  to  touching  a  piece,  unless  it  is  your  turn  to  move. 


1181.  If  the  player  touch  his  king,  with  the  intention  of 
moving  him,  and  then  finds  that  he  cannot  do  so  without 


LAWS    OF    CHESS.  42 1 

placing  the  king  in  check,  no  penalty  can  be  inflicted  on  his 
replacing  his  king  and  moving  elsewhere. 

1188.  [Otherwise  ?]  If  the  player  should  touch  a  man  which 
cannot  be  moved  without  placing  his  king  in  check,  he  must 
move  his  king  instead. 


1Y89.  If  a  player  about  to  move  touch  one  of  his  adversary's 
men,  without  saying  '^  J^adoiibe^^  when  he  first  touches  it,  he 
must  take  that  piece,  if  it  can  be  lawfully  taken. 


1790.  Should  it  not  be  taken,  he  must,  as  a  penalty,  move 
his  king  ;  but  should  the  king  be  unable  to  play  without  going 
into  check,  no  penalty  can  be  enforced.  It  is  not  allowed  to 
castle  upon  a  compulsory  move  of  the  king. 

1191.  While  you  hold  your  piece  you  may  move  it  anywhere 
allowed  by  the  rules ;  but  when  you  quit  your  hold  the  move 
is  completed,  and  must  be  abided  by. 


1192.  If  you  inadvertently  move  one  of  your  adversary's 
pieces  instead  of  your  own,  he  may  compel  you  to  take  the 
piece  you  have  touched,  should  it  be  en  prise;  or  to  replace  it 
and  move  your  king,  or  to  leave  it  on  the  square  to.  which  you 
have  moved  it,  and  forego  any  other  move  at  that  time. 


1193.  Should  you  capture  one  of  the  adverse  pieces  with 
another,  instead  of  one  of  your  own,  the  capture  holds  good, 
if  your  opponent  so  decides. 


1194.  If  the  player  takes  a  piece  through  a  false  move,  hi? 
adversary  may  compel  him  to  take  such  piece  with  one  that  can 
lawfully  take  it,  or  to  move  the  piece  that  has  been  touched, 
if  such  move  does  not  expose  the  king  to  check,  or  he  may  be 
directed  to  move  his  king. 


^&' 


1195.  If  you  take  one  of  your  own  men,  instead  of  one  of 
your  adversary's,  you  may  be  compelled  to  move  one  of  the 
two  pieces  touched,  at  the  option  of  your  opponent. 


1196.  Mr.  Walker  thinks  that  the  penalty  should  be  to  losf 
the  man  you  have  improperly  taken  off. 


428  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

ITOT.  An  opponent  has  the  option  of  punishing  a  false 
move,  by  claiming  the  false  move  as  your  move,  by  compelling 
you  to  move  the  piece  touched,  as  you  may  think  fit,  or  to  re- 
place the  piece  and  move  your  king. 


1798.  The  king  must  never  be  exposed  to  check  by  any 
penalty  enforced. 


1799.  If  you  move  twice  running,  you  may  be  compelled  to 
abide  by  both  moves,  or  to  retract  the  second. 


1800.  Unlimited  time  is  allowed  for  the  moves  [unless  other- 
wise agreed.]  If  one  player  insists  upon  the  postponement 
of  the  termination  of  a  game,  against  the  will  of  his  opponent, 
the  game  is  forfeited  by  him  who  will  not  play  on. 


1801.  When  a  pawn  is  moved  two  squares,  it  is  liable  to  be 
taken,  en  passant^  by  a  pawn,  but  not  by  a  piece. 

1802.  If  you  touch  both  king  and  rook,  intending  to  castle, 
you  must  move  one  of  the  two  pieces,  at  the  option  of  your 
adversary  ;  or  he  may  compel  you  to  complete  the  castling. 

1803.  You  cannot  take  a  piece  and  castle  at  the  same  time; 
nor  does  the  rook  check  as  it  passes  to  its  new  position  ;  but 
it  may  check  on  its  position  after  castling. 

1804.  False  castling  is  liable  to  the  same  penalties  as  a  false 
move. 


1805.  When  a  player  gives  the  odds  of  a  rook,  he  does  not 
relinquish  the  right  of  castling  on  the  side  from  which  the 
rook  has  been  taken,  all  other  conditions  being  lawful,  as  if 
the  rook  were  in  its  place. 


1806.  When  you  give  check  you  must  say  so  aloud. 

1807.  If  check  is  not  called  on  either  side,  but  subsequently 
discovered,  you  must  endeavor  to  recall  all  the  moves  back  to 
the  period  when  the  check  first  occurred. 


'  1808.  You  are  not  compelled  to  cry  check  when  you  attack 
the  queen. 


EVENlNa    PASTIME.  429 

180d.  If  you  cry  check,  and  afterward  alter  your  determi- 
nation, you  are  not  compelled  to  abide  by  the  intention,  pro- 
vided you  have  not  touched  the  piece. 


1810.  When  a  pawn  reaches  the  opposite  side  of  the  board 
it  may  be  replaced  by  any  piece,  at  the  option  of  the  owner, 
and  irrespective  of  the  pieces  already  owned  by  him. 

1811.  Stall-mate  is  a  drawn  game. 


1812.  Drawn  games  count  for  nothing;  and  he  who  moved 
first  in  the  drawn  game  moves  first  in  the  following. 

1813.  If  you  declare  to  win  a  game,  or  position,  and  only 
draw  it,  you  are  accounted  the  loser. 

1814.  When  you  have  either  of  the  following  advantages  of 
force,  you  are  compelled  to  give  check-mate  in  fifty  moves,  or 
the  game  is  considered  drawn  : 


1815.  King  and  queen  against  king. 
King  and  rook  against  king. 
King  and  two  bishops  against  king. 
King,  bishop,  and  knight,  against  king. 
King  and  queen  against  king  and  rook. 
King  and  rook  against  king  and  minor  piece. 
King  and  pawn  against  king. 
King  and  two  pawns  against  king  and  pawn. 


1816.  If  you  move  after  your  adversary  has  made  a  false 
move,  or  committed  other  irregularity,  you  cannot  claim  the 
penalties. 


1817.  Spectators  are  forbidden  to  make  remarks. 


1818.  Disputes  to  be  referred  to  a  third  party. 


EVENma   PASTIME. 

1819.  Among  the  innocent  recreations  of  tlie  fireside,  tlicre 
are  few  more  commendable  and  practicable  than  those  afforded 


430  MES.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

by  what  are  severally  termed  Anagrams,  Charades,  Conun- 
drums, Enigmas,  Puzzles,  Rebuses,  Riddles,  Transpositions,  &c. 

1820.  Of  these  there  are  such  a  variety,  that  they  are  suited 
to  every  capacity ;  and  they  present  this  additional  attraction, 
that  ingenuity  may  be  exercised  in  the  invention  of  them,  as 
well  as  in  their  solution. 


1821.  Many  persons  who  have  become  noted  for  their 
literary  compositions  may  date  the  origin  of  their  success  to 
the  time  when  they  attempted  the  composition  of  a  trifling 
euiorma  or  charade. 


1822.  Anagrams  are  formed  by  the  transposition  of  the  let- 
ters of  words  or  sentences,  or  names  of  persons,  so  as  to  pro- 
duce a  word,  sentence,  or  verse  of  pertinent,  or  of  widely  dif- 
ferent meaning. 


1823.  They  are  very  difficult  to  discover,  but  are  exceedingly 
striking  v/hen  good.  The  following  are  some  of  the  most  re- 
markable. 


1824.  Transposed  Forms — Astronomers — No  more  stars  ; 
Catalogues — Got  as  a  clue  ;  Elegant — Neat  leg  ;  Impatient — 
Tim  in  a  pet ;  Immediately — I  met  my  Delia ;  Masquerade — 
Queen  as  mad ;  Parishioners — I  hire  parsons  ;  Parliament — 
Partial  men  ;  Penitentiary — Nay  I  repent ;  Presbyterians — 
Best  in  prayer ;  Sweetheart — There  we  sat ;  Telegraphs — 
Great  helps. 


1825.  Conundrums. — These  are  simple  catches,  in  which 
the  sense  is  playfully  cheated,  and  are  generally  founded  upon 
words  capable  of  double  meaning.     The  following  are  examples. 


1826.  If  a  person  were  looking  at  a  conflagration  by  the 
names  of  what  three  great  British  writers,  could  he  express 
his  emotions  ? 

182Y.  Dickens  J  How-itt  Burns  ! 


1828.  The  name  of  what  class  of  persons,  in  Rome,  might 
a  bear  be  supposed  to  say  when  he  was  licking  his  paws  after 
having  eaten  a  little  girl  ? 

1829.  Gladiator-^ Glad  I  aie  her. 


HOUSEHOLD    MAXIMS.  431 

1830.  Who  first  introduced  salt  provisions  into  the  navy  ? 

1831.  Noah,  when  he  took  Ham  into  the  ark. 


1832.  Why  need  a  person  never  be  hungry  in  the  desert  ? 

1833.  Because  of  the  sand  which  is  there. — Sandwiches  ! 


1834.  Why  is  a  clock  the  most  modest  thing  in  the  world  ? 

1835.  Because  it  atways  keeps  its  hands  before  its  face ^  and 
no  matter  how  good  its  works  are,  it  will  run  itself  down. 


PAET  IX. 

WORK  IN  DOORS  AND  OUT. 

Home  Comforts — Household  Receipts — Wise  Economy — 
Fuel — Things  to  Know — Cleanliness — Accidents — Agri- 
culture— Gardening — Etc.,  Etc. 

HOUSEHOLD  MAXIMS. 

1836.  A  short  needle  makes  the  most  expedition  in  plain 
sewing. 


183Y.  When  you  are  particular  in  wishing  to  have  precisely 
what  you  want  from  a  butcher's,  go  and  purchase  it  yourself. 


1838.  One  flannel  petticoat  will  wear  nearly  as  long  as  two, 
if  turned  behind-part  before,  when  the  front  begins  to  wear 
thin. 


1839.  People  in  general  are  not  aware  how  very  essential 
to  the  health  of  their  inmates  is  the  free  admission  of  light 
into  their  houses. 


1840.  A  leather  strap,  with  a  buckle  to  fasten,  is  much 
more  commodious  than  a  cord  for  a  box  in  general  use  for. 
Bhort  distances ;  cording  and  uncording  is  a  disagreeable  job. 


432  MRS.  hale's  receipts  J'OR  the  million. 

1841.  There  is  not  any  real  economy  in  purchasing  cheap 
cottons  for  gentlemen's  night  shirts.  The  cloth  cuts  in  holes, 
and  soon  becomes  bad  colored  in  washing. 


1842.  Sitting  to  sew  by  candle-light  by  a  table 'with  a  dark 
viloth  on  it  is  injurious  to  the  eye-sight.  When  no  other 
remedy  presents  itself,  put  a  sheet  of  white  paper  before  you. 


1843.  People  very  commonly  complain  of  indigestion  :  how 
can  it  be  wondered  at,  when  they  seem  by  their  habit  of  swal- 
lowing their  food  wholesale,  to  forget  for  what  purpose  they 
are  proyided  with  teeth. 


1844.  Eat  slowly  and  you  will  not  over-eat. 


1845.  Keeping  the  feet  warm  will  prevent  headaches. 


1846.  Late  at  breakfast — hurried  for  dinner — cross  at  tea. 


184T.  Between  husband  and  wife  little  attentions  beget 
much  love. 


1848.  Always  lay  your  table  neatly,  whether  you  have  com- 
pany or  not. 


1849.  Put  your  balls  or  reels  of  cotton  into  little  bags,  leav- 
ing the  ends  out. 


1850.  Whatever  you  may  choose  to  give  away,  always  be 
sure  to  keep  your  temper. 


1851.  Feather  beds  should  be  opened  every  third  year,  the 
ticking  well  dusted,  soaped  and  waxed,  the  feathers  dressed 
and  returned. 


1852.  Bed-rooms  heated  are  pernicious  to  health. 


1853.  Beds,  instead  of  being  made  up  as  soon  as  people 
rise  out  of  them,  ought  to  be  turned  down,  and  exposed  to 
the  fresh  air  from  the  open  windows  through  the  day. 


1854.  Feather  beds,  especially  in  youth  and  in  warm  weather, 


HOUSEHOLD    MAXIMS.  43? 

enervate  the  system,  destroying  its  vigor  and  health.  Neither 
should  beds  be  too  hard.  Sleeping  with  the  head  under  the 
clothes  is  pernicious ;  so,  also,  confined  air  caused  by  curtains. 


1855.  The  floor  is  the  unhealthiest  part  of  a  room,  from 
the  tendency  of  impure  air  to  descend. 

1856.  Charcoal,  when  burning,  should  have  an  uncovered 
vessel  of  boiling  water  over  it,  the  vapor  of  which  will  coun- 
teract the  deleterious  fumes. 


185t.  Powdered  charcoal  will  remove  smells,  impurities,  Ac, 
from  old  glass  vessels,  after  the  grosser  parts  have  been  scoured 
off  with  sand  and  potash. 


1858.  A  perfume  hvlm^n,  &e.,  is  made  of  rose  leaves  dried 
in  the  shade,  mixed  with  powdered  cloves,  scraped  mace,  and 
put  in  little  bags. 

1859.  Persons  of  defective  sight,  when  threading  a  needle, 
should  hold  it  over  something  white,  by  which  the  sight  will 
be  assisted. 


1860.  In  mending  sheets  and  shirts,  put  the  pieces  suffi- 
ciently large,  or  in  the  first  washing  the  thin  parts  give  way, 
and  the  work  is  all  undone. 


1861.  Reading  by  candle-light,  place  the  candle  behind  you, 
that  the  rays  may  pass  over  your  shoulder  on  to  the  book. 
This  will  relieve  the  eyes. 


1862.  A  wire  fire-guard,  for  each  fire-place  in  a  house,  costs 
little,  and  greatly  diminishes  the  risk  to  life  and  property.  Fix 
them  before  going  to  bed. 


1863.  In  winter,  get  the  work  forward  by  daylight,  to  pre- 
vent running  about  at  night  with  candles.  Thus  you  escape 
grease  spots  and  risks  of  fire. 


1864.  Matches,  out  of  the  reach  of  children,  should  be  kept 
in  every  bedroom.     They  are  cheap  enough. 

28 


434  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1865.   Apple  and  suet  dumplings  are  lighter  when  boiled  in 
a  net  than  a  cloth.     Scum  the  pot  well. 


1866.   When  chamber  towels  get  thin  in  the,  middle,  cut 
them  in  two,  sew  the  selvages  together,  and  hem  the  sides. 


'186T.  When  you  dry  salt  for  the  table,  do  not  place  it  in 
tne  salt-cells  until  it  is  cold,  otherwfle  it  will  harden  into  a 
lump. 


1868.  Never  put  away  plate,  knives  and  forks,  &c.,  un- 
cleaned,  or  sad  inconvenience  will  arise  when  the  articles  are 
wanted. 


1869.  After  washing,  overlook  linen,  and  stitch  on  buttons, 
hooks  and  eyes,  &c.;  for  this  purpose,  keep  a  *' housewife's 
friend,"  full  of  miscellaneous  threads,  cottons,  buttons,  hooks, 
&c. 


1870.  For  ventilation,  open  your  windows  both  at  top  and 
bottom.  The  fresh  air  rushes  in  one  way,  while  the  foul 
makes  its  exit  the  other.  This  is  letting  in  your  friend  and 
expelling  your  enemy. 


18tl.  Never  allow  your  servants  to  put  wiped  knives  on 
your  table  ;  for,  generally  speaking,  you  may  see  that  they 
have  been  wiped  with  a  dirty  cloth. 


1872.  There  is  not  any  thing  gained  in  economy  by  having 
very  young  and  inexperienced  servants  at  low  wages. 


1873.  Dirty  windows  speak  to  the  passer-by  of  the  negli- 
gence of  the  inmates. 


1874.  Carpets. — If  the  corner  of  a  carpet  gets  loose  and 
prevents  the  door  opening,  or  trips  every  one  up  that  enters 
the  room,  nail  it  down  at  once.  A  dog's-eared  carpet  marks 
the  sloven  as  well  as  the  dog's-eared  book. 


1875.  Cravats  or  stocks  should  not  be  worn  so  tight  as  to 
compress  the  many  large  blood-vessels  of  the  neck,  which  con- 
nect with  the  brain. 


HOUSEHOLD    RECEIPTg    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  435 

18t6.  Impure  air  of  theatres,  ball-rooms,  and  other  crowded 
and  badly-ventilated  buildings  and  sleeping-rooms,  is  poison 
to  the  lungs. 


1877.  Eye-sight  is  best  preserved  by  a  moderate  light — too 
little,  strains — too  much,  dazzles  and  injures.  Bathing  in  cold 
water  is  of  service 


1.878.  Consumption. — Remedies. — Vigorous,  daily,  but  not 
violent,  exercise,  and  free  exposure  to  the  air,  are  important. 
As  the  great  difficulty  in  medicine  is  in  reaching  the  seat  of 
this  disease,  frequently  inhaling  certain  fumes  may  be  a  means 
of  healing  the  lu^igs.  Sitting  and  sleeping  in  a  room  through 
v^^hich  the  fumes  of  resin,  turpentine,  or  other  similar  gums 
are  moderately  diffused,  may  be  of  service. 


1879.  Small  Fox  is  prevented  by  vaccination,  if  well  done. 
Never  neglect  vaccination. 


1880.  Water  is  purified  by — 1,  filtration  through  gravel, 
sand,  or  soft  porous  stone  and  charcoal.  Or,  2,  it  may  be 
sweetened  and  improved  by  charcoal,  coarsely  pulverized  and 
thrown  into  a  vessel  of  water.  3,  by  boiling  and  distillation. 
Water  is  greatly  improved  in  wells  or  pumps  that  are  fre- 
quently used. 


1881.  Distilled  Watery  after  being  exposed  to  the  air,  is  the 
most  salubrious  of  all  drinks,  and  its  daily  use  is  of  the  great- 
est importance  in  dyspepsia  and  similar  diseases. 


1882.  Wet  Clothes  should  not  be  worn  near  a  fire,  or  so  as 
to  occasion  sudden  heat.  Keep  in  motion  till  dry  can  be 
had,  then  change  at  once,  and  give  the  feet  a  long  heating. 


1883.  Black  Silks  wash  in  warm  small  be^r  and  milk. 


HOUSEHOLD  RECEIPTS  FOR  MANY  THINGS. 

1884.  To  Extract  Grease  from  Clothes. — Scrape  off  all  the 
grease  that  you  can  with  a  knife  ;  then  lay  over  the  spot  a 
thick  brown  paper,  and  press  it  with  a  warm  iron ;  if  the 


486  MBS     HALE'S    EECEIIPTS    J*OR    THE    MILLION. 

grease  comes  through  the  paper,  take  another  piece,  and  so 
on  until  it  does  not  soil  the  paper. 


1885.  If  not  all  out,  wrap  a  bit  of  cloth  or  flannel  round 
the  finger,  dip  it  in  spirits  of  wine,  and  rub  the  grease  spot  ; 
this  Vill  take  it  out.  Be  careful  not  to  have  the  iron  too  hot. 
Try  it  on  white  paper ;  if  it  scorches  this,  it  is  too  hot. 

1886.  To  Extract  Paint  from  Woolen. — Bub  the  spot  with 
a  piece  of  flannel  saturated  with  turpentine,  or  spirit  of  wine. 


1887.  To  Preserve  Mats. — Brush  them  always  with  a  soft 
brush.  Keep  them  in  a  hat  box  if  not  in  constant  use,  as  air 
and  dust  soon  turn  them  brown.     Have  a  stick  for  each  hat. 


1888. — Hats  when  wet  should  be  handled  lightly,  wipedMry 
with  a  cloth  or  silk  handkerchief,  and  brushed.  If  the  fur 
sticks,  dampen  it  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  vinegar,  and  brush 
it  dry. 


1889.    When  heated  by  exercise  avoid  drinking  cold  v\^ater. 
Rinse  the  mouth  with  cold  water  before  drinking. 


1890.    To  Procure  Sleep. — On  going  to  bed  take  a  warm 
or  cold  bath. 


IS^l,  Another    Way. — Rub   the   body    well   with    rough 
towels  or  the  flesh-brush  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


1892.  To  Relieve  Headache  in  Bed. — Wash  the  head  in 
cold  water,  and  lay  aside  the  night-cap,  but  see  that  the  feet 
are  kept  warm. 


1893.  The  air  bath  is  very  healthful.  Children  especially 
should  resort  to  this  method  of  enjoying  the  salubrious  influ- 
ence of  the  atmosphere. 

1894.  Dr.  Franklin^s  plan  was  to  rise  at  day-break,  and 
pass  half  an  hour  in  his  chamber  undressed,  reading  or  writ- 
in«:. 


1895.   Close  Closets  that  have  become  infested  with  moths 


HOUSEHOLD    RECEIPTS    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  437 

should  be  well  rubbed  with  a  strong  decoction  of  tobacco,  and 
repeatedly  sprinkled  with  spirits  of  camphor. 


1896.  The  Sting  of  a  Nettle  may  be  cured  by  rubbing  the 
part  with  rosemary,  mint,  or  sage  leaves. 

189*7.  Charcoal  Fumes. — The  usual  remedies  for  persdos 
overcome  with  the  fumes  of  charcoal  in  a  close  apartment  are, 
to  throw  cold  water  on  the  head  and  to  bleed  immediately ; 
also  apply  mustard  or  hartshorne  to  the  soles  of  the  feet. 


1898.  An  Ever-Dirly  Hearth,  and  a  grate  always  choked 
with  cinders  and  ashes,  are  infallible  evidences  of  bad  house- 
keeping. 

1899.  Effects  of  Charcoal,  in  stopping  putrefaction,  are 
now  well  ascertained ;  fish  or  meat  may  be  restored  by  boiling 
charcoal  with  them. 


1900.  Moths — to  get  rid  of  them, — Procure  shavings  of 
cedar-wood,  and  enclose  in  muslin  bags,  which  should  be  dis- 
tributed freely  among  the  clothes. 


1901.  Second, — Sprinkle  pimento  (allspice)  berries  among 
the  clothes.  Sprinkle  the  clothes  with  the  seeds  of  the  musk 
plant. 


1902.  To  Destroy  the  Eggs. — When  deposited  in  woolen 
cloth,  &c.,  use  a  solution  of  acetate  of  potash  in  spirits  of  rose- 
mary, fifteen  grains  to  the  pint. 


1903.  To  Drive  away  Moths  from  clothes,  wrap  up  some 
yellow  or  turpentine  soap  in  paper  ;  or  place  an  open  bottle 
containing  spirits  of  turpentine  in  the  wardrobe. 


1904.  Cold  Green  Tea,  very  strong,  and  sweetened  with 
sugar,  when  set  about  in  saucers,  attracts  flies  and  destroys 
them. 

1905.  For  Keeping  a  Door  open,  place  a  large  brick,  cov- 
ered neatly  with  a  piece  of  carpeting,  against  the  door 


438  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1906.  A  Stair- Carpet  should  never  be  swept  down  with  a 
long  broom,  but  always  with  a  short-handled  brush,  and  a  dust 
pan  held  closely  under  each  step  of  the  stairs. 


1907.  A  Hat  should  be  brushed  every  day  with  a  hat-brush, 
and  twice  a-day  in  dusty  weather. 


1908.  Rings  that  have  stones  in  them  should  always  be 
taken  off  the  finger 'when  the  hands  are  washed,  else  they  be- 
come discolored. 


1909.  Beading  in  Bed  at  night  should  be  avoided,  as  be- 
sides the  danger  of  an  accident,  it  never  fails  to  injure  the 
eyes. 


1910.  In  Escaping  from  a  Fire,  creep  or  crawl  along  the 
room  with  your  face  close  to  the  ground.  Children  should  be 
early  taught  how  to  press  out  a  spark  when  it  happens  to 
reach  any  part  of  their  dress,  and  also  that  running  into  the 
air  will  cause  it  to  blaze  immediately.     (See  page  204.) 


I'Qll.  Bronzed  Chandeliers,  Lamps,  &c.,  should  be  merely 
dusted  with  a  feather  brush,  or  with  a  soft  cloth,  as  washing 
them  will  take  off  the  bronzing. 


1912.  Iron    Wipers.^ — Old  soft  towels,  or    pieces   of  old 
sheets  or  tablecloths,  make  excellent  iron  wipers. 


1913.  To  Clean  Looking- Glasses. — First  wash  the  glass 
all  over  with  lukewarm  soap-suds  and  a  sponge.  When  dry, 
rub  it  bright  with  a  buckskin  and  a  little  prepared  chalk,  finely 
powdered. 


1914.  Flowers  and  Shrubs  should  be  excluded  from  a  bed- 
chamber. 


1915.  Water  of  every  kind,  except  rain  water,  will  speedily 
cover  the  inside  of  a  tea-kettle  with  an  unpleasant  crust ;  this 
may  easily  be  guarded  against  by  placing  a  clean  oyster-shell 
in  the  tea-kettle,  which  will  always  keep  it  in  good  order,  by 
attracting  the  particles  of  earth  or  of  stone 


HOtTSEHOLD    RECEIPTS    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  439 

1916.  Paper  Fire- Screens  should  be  coated  with  transpa- 
rent varnish,  otherwise  they  will  soon  become  soiled  and  dis- 
colored. 


1917.    The  best  Lamp- Oil  is  that  which  is  clear  and  nearly 
colorless,  like  water^ 


1918.   Oil-Grease  may  be  removed  from  a  hearth  by  cover- 
ing it  immediately  with  thick  hot  ashes,  or  with  burning  coals. 


1919.    Candles  improve  by  keeping  a  few  months. 


1920.   Glass  Vessels j  and  other  utensils,  may  be   purified 
and  cleaned  by  rinsing  them  out  with  powdered  charcoal. 


1921.  Family  Clocks  ought  only  to  be  oiled  with  the  very 
purest  oil,  purified  by  a  quart  of  lime-water  to  a  gallon  of  oil, 
in  which  it  has  been  well  shaken,  and  suffered  to  stand  for 
three  or  four  days,  when  it  may  be  drawn  off. 


1922.  To  Heat  a  Bed  at  a  moment's  notice,  throw  a  little 
salt  into  the  warming-pan,  and  suffer  it  to  burn  for  a  minute 
previous  to  use.     (See  page  17.) 


1923.  To  Destroy  Flies  in  a  room,  take  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper  in  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  cream,  mix  them  well  together,  and 
place  them  in  the  room  on  a  plate,  where  the  flies  are  trouble- 


some. 


1924.  Feety  to  Keep  Warm  in  a  Carriage  or  Cold  Boom. — 
Use  a  stone  or  glass  bottle  filled  with  boiling  water  and 
wrapped  in  flannel. 


1925.  To  Prevent  Cold  Feet  at  Night.— 'Ruh  the  ankles 
and  feet  with  the  hand  as  hard  as  can  be  borne  for  five  or  ten 
minutes  before  retiring.  This  will  be  found  an  effectual 
remedy. 


1926.  Another  Way. — Frequent  washing,  and  rubbing  them 
thoroughly  clvy,  with  a  linen  cloth,  or  flannel,  is  useful. 


440  MliS'    HALE^S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

1927.  To  Warm  Beds.- — Take  all  the  black  or  blazing  coals 
out  of  the  pan,  and  scatter  a  little  salt  over  the  remainder. 
This  will  prevent  the  smell  of  sulphur. 


1928.  To  Explore  Unventilated  PZaces.— Light  sheets  of 
brown  paper  and  throw  into  the  well  or  cavern.  Or,  fix  a 
long  pipe  to  a  pair  of  bellows,  and  blow  into  the  place  for 
some  time. 


1929.  To  Destroy  Crickets,^— Fnt  Scotch  snuff  upon  the 
holes  where  they  come  out. 

1930.  To  Brush  Clothes. — Have  a  wooden  horse  to  put  the 
clothes  on,  and  a  small  cane  to  beat  the  dust  out  of  them  ; 
also  a  board  or  table  long  enough  for  them  to  be  put  their 
w^hole  length  while  brushing  them. 

1931.  Have  two  brushes,  one  hard  and  the  other  soft.  Use 
the  hard  brush  for  the  great  coats  ;  the  soft  for  the  fine  cloth 
garments.  These  should  never  be  brushed  with  too  hard  a 
brush,  as  this  will  take  off  the  nap. 


1932.    The  Cane  for  the  Clothes  should  not  be  too  large. 
A  small  hand- whip  is  the  best  to  beat  with.     Be  careful  not . 
to  strike  the  buttons. 


1933.  If  the  coat  be  wet  and  spotted  with  -mud,  let  it  be 
quite  dry  before  brushing  it.  Then  rub  off  the  mud  with  the 
hands  ;  put  the  coat  at  its  full  length  on  the  board,  and  brush 
the  cloth  the  same  way  the  nap  goes,  which  is  toward  the 
skirt  of  the  coat. 


1934.   Chimneys,  Smoky,  to  Cure, — A  northern  aspect  often 
produces  a  smoky  chimney. 


1935.  Stacks  of  Chimneys  are  less  apt  to  smoke  than  singi 
ones. 


1936.   Straight  Funnels  seldom  draw  well. 


193t.  Large  Fire-Places  are  apt  to  smoke.     When  they  do 
so,  the  lower  aperture  should  be  diminished. 


HOUSEHOLD    RECEIPTS    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  441 

1938.  If  the  chimney  smokes  only  when  the  fire  is  first  lighted, 
lay  any  inflammable  substance,  as  shavings,  on  the  top  of  the. 
grate  ;  the  rapid  combustion  of  which  will  warm  the  air  of  the 
chimney,  and  give  it  a  tendency  upward  before  any  smoke  is 
produced. 

1939.  A  chimney  so  incorrigible  as  to  require  the  constant 
admission  of  fresh  air,  should  have  a  pipe  introduced,  one  of 
whose  apertures  is  under  the  grate,  and  the  other  in  the  open 
air.  Or  openings  may  be  made  for  ventilation  near  the  top 
of  the  apartment. 


1940.  To  prevent  unpleasant  odor  in  Clothes  laid  up  for  a 
time,  place  recently-made  charcoal  between  the  folds  of  the 
garments.  Even  when  the  odor  has  taken  place,  the  charcoal 
will  absorb  it. 


1941.  To  Purify  Stagnant  Water. — One  part  of  chalk  and 
two  of  alum  will  speedily  purify  stagnant  water,  and  four  parts 
of  animal  carbon  and  one  of  alum  are  sufficient  to  purify  a 
thousand  parts  of  muddy  river  water. 


1942.    To  Prevent  the  Smoking  of  a  Lamp. — Soak  the  wick 
in  strong  vinegar,  and  well  dry  it  before  you  use  it* 


1943.    To  Clean  Cane  Chairs. — Sponge  them,  until  soaked, 
with  soap  and  hot  .water. 


1944.  Clean  White  Vails. — Put  the  vail  in  a  solution  of 
white  soap,  and  let  it  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  squeeze  it 
in  some  warm  water  and  soap  till  quite  clean.  Rinse  it  from 
soap,  and  then  in  clean  cold  water,  in  which  is  a  drop  of  liquid 
blue  ;  then  pour  boiling  water  on  a  teaspoonful  of  starch,  run 
the  vail  through  this,  and  clear  it  well  by  clapping  it.  After- 
ward pin  it  out,  keeping  the  edges  straight  and  even. 


1945.  Restoring  Color  to  Silk. — When  the  color  has  been 
taken  from  silk  by  acids,  it  may  be  restored  by  applying  to 
the  spot  a  little  hartshorne,  or  sal-volatile. 

1946.  Clean  White  Ostrich  Feathers.- — Four  ounces  of  white 
Boap,  cut  small,  dissolved  in  four  pints  of  water,  rather  hot,  in 


442  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

a  lar^e  basin  ;  make  the  solution  into  a  lather,  by  beating  it 
with  birch-rods,  or  wires. 


1947.  Introduce  the  feathers,  and  rub  well  with  the  hands 
for  five  or  six  minutes.  After  this  soaping,  wash  in  clean 
water,  as  hot  as  the  hand  can  bear.     Shake  until  dry. 


1948.  Cure  for  a.  ^wrn.— Wheat  flour  and  cold  water 
mixed  to  the  consistency  of  soft  paste,  is  an  almost  instanta- 
neous cure  for  a  burn,  whether  large  or  small.  Renew  before 
the  first  gets  so  dry  as  to  stick. 


1949.  Slippery  Elm  bark  powdered  makes  an  excellent 
healing  poultice  for  burns,  sores,  &c.,  boiled  with  milk  and 
about  one-third  bread. 


1950.    Cod-Liver  O^Y.— This  is  a  nauseating  medicine,  but 
the  following  receipt  is  said  to  remedy  the  bad  taste. 


1951.  To  a  pint  of  cod-liver  oil  add  an  ounce  of  fine  salt ; 
shake  them  well  together,  till  they  amalgamate. 


1952.  To  Dress  Squirrel  and  other  Skins. — Take  a  hand- 
ful of  common  salt,  and  half  the  quantity  of  alum  ;  boil  it  in 
half  a  gallon  of  water  till  dissolved.  When  cold,  the  skins 
may  be  put  in  to  steep,  and  allowed  to  remain  for  a  fortnight, 
occasionally  turning  them ;  they  may  then  be  taken  out, 
stretched  on  a  board  (skin  side  outward)  till  'dry ;  they  will 
then  be  found  perfectly  soft  and  pliable. 


1953.  Another  Method. — Stretch  the  fresh  skin  on  a  board, 
and  dress  it  with  water  in  which  salt  and  alum  have  been  dis- 
solved— applying  the  solution  with  a  brush.  This  does  not 
injure  the  glossiness  of  the  fur,  which  is  apt  to  be  afi*ected 
when  the  skin  is  immersed. 


1954.  To  Clean  Furs. — Strip  the  fur  articles  of  their  stufi"- 
ing  and  binding,  and  lay  them  as  much  as  possible  in  a  flat 
position. 


1955.  They  most  then  be  subjected  to  a  very  brisk  brushing, 
with  a  stiff  clothes-brush ;    after  this,  any  moth-eaten  parts 


HOUSEHOLD     EECEIPTS    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  443 

mnst  be  cut  out,  and  be  neatly  replaced  by  new  bits  of  fur  to 
match. 


1956.  Sable f  Chinchilla,  Squirrel,  Fitch,  &c.,  should  be 
treated  as  follows  :  Warm  a  quantity  of  new  bran  in  a  pan, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn,  to  prevent  which  it  must  be 
actively  stirred. 


]95Y.  When  well  warmed,  rub  it  thoroughly  into  the  fur 
with  the  hand.  Repeat  this  two  or  three  times ;  then  shake 
the  fur,  and  give  it  another  sharp  brushing  until  free  from 
dust. 


1958.  White  Furs,  Ermine,  &c.,  may  be  cleaned  as  follows  : 
Lay  the  fur  on  the  table,  and  rub  it  well  wRh  bran  made  moist 
with  warm  water;  rub  until  quite  dry,  and  afterward  with  dry 
bran.  The  wet  bran  should  be  put  on  with  flannel,  and  the 
dry  with  a  piece  of  book-muslin. 


1959.  The  Light  Furs,  in  addition  to  the  above,  should  be 
well  rubbed  with  magnesia,  or  a  piece  of  book-muslin,  after 
the  bran  process. 


1960.  Stretching  Furs. — Furs  are  usually  much  improved 
by  stretching,  which  may  be  managed  as  follows  :  To  a  pint 
of  soft  water  add  three  ounces  of  salt,  dissolve  ;  with  this  solu- 
tion sponge  the  inside  of  the  skin  (taking  care  not  to  wet  the 
fur),  until  it  becomes  thoroughly  saturated  ;  then  lay  it  care- 
fully on  a  board  with  the  fur  side  downward,  in  its  natural 
disposition ;  then  stretch,  as  much  as  it  will  bear,  to  the  re- 
quired shape,  and  fasten  with  small  tacks.  The  drying  may 
be  quickened  by  placing  the  skin  a  little  distance  from  the  fire 
or  stove. 


1961.  To  Pi^eserve  Furs  from  Moths. — Warm  water,  one 
Dint;  corrosive  sublimate,  twelve  grains.  If  washed  with 
this,  and  afterward  dried,  furs  are  safe  from  moth.  Care 
hhould  be  taken  to  label  the  liquid  '*  poison." 


19G2.  To  Keep  away  Flies. — No  fly  will  enter  a  room  in 
which  a  wreath  of  walnut  leaves  has  been  hung  u]).  The  ex- 
periment is  worth  trying. 


444  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1963.  Washing, — The  most  important  department  of  do- 
mestic economy  naturally  includes  the  washhouse,  into  which 
philosophy  has  found  its  way  for  the  application  of  many  use- 
ful principles,  and  much  useful  practice.     (See  p.  262.) 


1964.  To  Clean  Morocco  Shoes. — Dissolve  gum  arable  in 
water,  and  mix  with  it  a  little  white  sugar.  If  it  is  to  be  kept 
any  time,  put  in  a  little  spirits  of  wine.  Brush  the  shoes 
with  it. 


1965.  Cheap  Door-Mats. — Cut  old  broadcloth  or  any 
woolen  articles  into  long  strips  from  one  to  two  inches  broad. 
Bro^d  three  of  these  together,  and  sew  the  braid  round  in 
gradually  increasing  circles  till  large  enough. 


WISE    ECONOMY. 

1966.  If  you  have  a  strip  of  land,  do  not  throw  away  soap- 
suds. Both  ashes  and  soap-suds  are  good  manure  for  bushes 
and  young  plants. 


196T.   Woolen  Clothes  should  be  washed  in  very  hot  suds, 
and  not  rinsed.     Lukewarm  water  shrinks  them. 


1968.  Do  not  let  coffee  and  tea  stand  in  tin. 


1969.  Scald  your  wooden-ware  often,  and  keep  your  tin-ware 
dry. 


1910.  Preserve  the  backs  of  old  letters  to  write  upon. 

1911.  If  you  have  children  who  are  learning  to  write,  buy 
coarse  white  paper  by  the  quantity,  and  keep  it  locked  up, 
ready  to  be  made  into  writing-books.  It  does  not  cost  half  so 
much  as  it  does  to  buy  them  at  the  stationer^s. 


1912.  See  that  nothing  is  thrown  away  which  might  have 
served  to  nourish  your  own  family  or  a  poorer  one. 


1913.  As  far  as  possible,  have  bits  of  bread  eaten  up  before . 


wist:  ECONOMY.  445 

tl>ey  become  hard ;  spread  those  that  are  not  eaten,  and  let 
them  dry,  to  be  }30unded  for  puddings,  or  soaked  for  brewis. 


19T4.  Brewis  is  made  of  crusts  and  dry  pieces  of  bread, 
soaked  a  good  while  in  hot  milk,  mashed  up,  and  eaten  with 
salt. 


19t5.  Above  all,  do  not  let  crusts  accumulate  in  such  quan-' 
titles  that  they  cannot  be  used.  With  proper  care,  there  is 
no  need  of  losing  a  particle  of  bread. 


19T6.  All  the  mending  in  the  house  should  be  done  once  a 
week,  if  possible. 


191^.  Never  put  out  sewing.  If  it  be  not  possible  to  do  it 
in  your  own  family,  hire  some  one  into  the  house,  and  work 
with  them. 


1918.  Do  not  let  knives  be  dropped  into  hot  dish-water.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  large  tin  pot  to  wash  them  in,  just 
high  enough  to  wash  the  blades  without  wetting  the  handles. 


1919.   It  is  better  to   accomplish  perfectly   a  very  small 
amount  of  work,  than  to  half  do  ten  times  as  much.- 


1980.   Charcoal  Powder  will  be  found  a  very  good  thing 
to  give  knives  a  first-rate  polish. 


1981.  A  Bonnet  and  trimmings  may  be  worn  a  much  longer 
time,  if  the  dust  be  brushed  well  off  after  walking. 


1982.  Much  knowledge  may  b^e  obtained  by  the  good  house- 
wife observing  how  things  are  managed  in  well-regulated 
families. 


1983. — Apples  intended  for  dumplings  should  not  have  the 
core  taken  out  of  them,  as  the  pips  impart  a  delicious  flavor 
to  the  dumpling. 


1984.  A  Bice  Pudding  is  most  excellent  without  either  eggs 
or  sugar,  if  baked  gently  ;  it  keeps  better  without  eggs. 


446  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

1985.  ''Wilful  waste  makes  woful  want."  Do  not  cook  a 
fresh  joint  whilst  any  of  the  last  remains  uneaten — hash  it  up, 
and  with  gravy  and  a  little  management  eke  out  another  day's 
dinner. 


1986.  A  warming-pan  full  of  coals,  or  a  shovel  of  coals, 
held  over  varnished  furniture,  will  take  out  white  spots.   Care 
•should  be  taken  not  to  hold  the  coals  near  enough  to  scorch  ;  * 
and  the  place  should  be  rubbed  with  a  flannel  while  warm. 

1981.  Sal-volatile  or  hartshorne  will  restore  colors  taken 
out  by  acid.  It  may  be  dropped  upon  any  garment  without 
doing  harm. 


1988.  New  Iron  should  be  very  gradually  heated  at  first. 
After  it  has  become  inured  to  the  heat,  it  is  not  so  likely 
to  crack. 


1989.  The  shanks  of  mutton  make  a  good  stock  for  nearly 
any  kind  of  gravy — and  they  are  very  cheap — a  dozen  may  be 
had  for  a  penny,  enough  to  make  a  quart  of  delicious  soup. 

1990.  Thick  curtains,  closely  drawn  around  the  bed,  are 
very  injurious,  because  they  not  only  confine  the  effluvia 
thrown  off  from  our  bodies  whilst  in  bed,  but  interrupt  the 
current  of  pure  air. 

1991.  Regularity  in  the  payment  of  accounts  is  essential  to 
housekeeping.  All  tradesmen's  bills  should  be  paid  weekly, 
"for  then  any  errors  can  be  detected  whilst  the  transactions  are 
fresh  in  the  memory. 

1992.  Linen  Rags  should  be  carefully  saved,  for  they  are 
extremely  useful  in  sickness.  If  they 'have  become  dirty  and 
worn  by  cleaning  silver,  &c.,  wash  them  and  scrape  them  into 
lint. 


1993.  If  you  are  troubled  to  get  soft  water  for  washing,  fill 
a  tub  or  barrel  half  fall  of  wood  ashes,  and  fill  it  up  with  water, 
so  that  you  may  have  ley  whenever  you  may  want  it.*  A  gal- 
lon of  strong  ley  put  into  a  great  kettle  of  hard  water,  will 
make  it  as  soft  as  rain  water. 


WISE    ECONOMY.  44T 

1994.  ^^ Morning^ s  Milk,^^  says  an  eminent  German  philoso- 
plier,  '*  commonly  yields  some  hundredths  more  cream  than  the 
evening's  at  the  same  temperature.  That  milked  at  noon  fur- 
nishes the  least;  it  would  therefore  be  of  advantage,  in  making 
butter  and  cheese,  to  employ  the  morning's  milk,  and  to  keep 
the  evening's  for  domestic  use." 


1995.  Scouring  Drops  for  Removing  Grease. — There  are 
several  preparations  of  this  name  ;  one  of  the  best  is  made  as 
follows :  Caraphene,  or  spirits  of  turpentine,  three  ounces  ; 
essence  of  lemon,  one  ounce  ;   mix. 

1996.  Sweeping.  Carpets. — Persons  who  are  accustomed  to 
use  tea-leaves  for  sweeping  their  carpets,  and  find  that  they 
leave  stains,  will  do  well  to  employ  fresh  cut  grass  instead.  It 
is  better  than  tea-leaves  for  preventing  dust,  and  gives  the 
carpets  a  very  bright,  fresh  look. 


199T.  Economy  of  Fuel. — There  is  no  part  of  domestic 
economy  which  everybody  professes  to  understand  better  than 
the  management  of  a  fire,  and  yet  there  is  no  branch  in  the 
household  arrangements  where  there  is  a  greater  proportional 
and  unnecessary  waste,  than  arises  from   ignorance  and  mis- 


management in  this  article. 


1998.  It  is  an  old  adage  that  we  must  stir  no  man's  fire 
until  we  have  known  him  seven  years  ;  but  we  might  find  it 
equally  prudent  if  we  were  careful  as  to  the  stirring  of  our 
own. 


1999.  Anybody,  indeed,  can  take  up  a  poker  and  toss  the 
coals  about ;  but  that  is  not  stirring  a  lire  !  '^ 


2000.  If  the  consumer,  instead  of  ordering  a  large  supply 
of  coal  at  once,  will  at  first  content  himself  with  a  sample,  he 
may,  with  very  little  trouble,  ascertain  who  will  deal  fairly 
with  him ;  and,  if  he  wisely  pays  ready  money,  he  will  be  in- 
dependent of  his  coal  merchant ;  a  situation  which  few  familitis, 
even  in  genteel  life,  can  boast  of. 


2001.  Indeed,  we  cannot  too  often  repeat  the  truth,  that  to 


448  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

deal  tor  ready  money  only,  in  all  the  departments  of  domestic 
arrangement,  is  the  truest  economy. 


2002.  Ready  money,  will  always  command  the  best  and 
cheapest  of  every  article  of  consumption,  if  expended  with 
judgment ;  and  the  dealer,  who  intends  to  act  fairly,  will 
always  prefer  it. 


2003.  Trust  not  him  who  seems  more  anxious  to  give  credit 
than  to  receive  cash. 


2004.  The  former  hopes  to  secure  custom  by  having  a  hold 
upon  you  in  his  books ;  and  continues  always  to  make  up  for 
his  advance,  either  by  an  advance  price,  or  an  inferior  article ; 
whilst  the  latter  knows  that  your  custom  can  only  be  secured 
by  fair  dealing. 

2005.  There  is,  likewise,  another  consideration,  as  far  as 
economy  is  concerned,  which  is,  not  only  to  buy  with  ready 
money,  but  to  buy  at  proper  seasons ;  for  there  is  with  every 
article  a  cheap  season  and  a  dear  one. 


2006.  The  master  of  a  family  v>^ho  fills  his  coal  cellar  in  the 
middle  of  the  summer,  rather  than  the  beginning  of  the  win- 
ter, will  save  one-fourth  which  it  would  otherwise  cost 
him ;  and  will  be  enabled  to  see  December's  snows  falling 
without  feeling  bis  enjoyment  of  his  fireside  lessened  by  the 
consideration  that  the  cheerful  blaze  is  supplied  at  twice  the 
rate  that  it  need  have  done,  if  he  had  exercised  more  fore- 
sight. 


that  clinrineys  often   smoke,  and  that  coal  is  often  wasted  by 
throwing  too  much  fuel  at  once  upon  a  fire. 


2008.  To  prove  this  observation,  it  is  only  necessary  to 
remove  the  superfluous  coal  from  the  top  of  the  grate,  when 
the  smoking  instantly  ceases. 


2009.  As  to  the  waste,  that  evidently  proceeds  from  the 
frequent,  intemperate  and  injudicious  use  of  the  poker,  which 
not  only  throws  a  great  portion  of  the  small  coals  among  the 


WISE    ECONOMY.  449 

cinders,  but  often   extinguishes  the  fire  it  was  intended  to 
foster. 


2010.  Economy  in  Corj^ets. — In  buying  a  carpet,  as  in 
every  thing  else,  those  of  the  best  quality  are  cheapest  in  the 
end.  As  it  is  extremely  desirable  tliat  they  should  look  as 
clean  as  possible,  avoid  buying  carpet  that  has  any  white  in  it. 
Even  a  very  small  portion  of  white  fiiterspersed  through  the 
pattern  will  in  a  sliort  time  give  a  dirty  appearance  to  the 
whole  ;  and  certainly  no  carpet  can.be  worse  for  use  than  one 
with  a  white  ground. 


2011.  A  carpet  in  which  all  the  colors  are  light,  never  has 
a  clean,  bright  effect,  from  the  want  of  dark  tints  to  contrast 
and  set  off  the  li2:ht  ones. 


2012.  For  a  similar  reason,  carpets  whose  colors  are  all  of 
what  artists  call  middle  tint  (neither  dark  nor  light),  cannot 
fail  to  look  dull  and  dingy,  eveti  when  quite  new. 


2013.  The  caprices  of  fashion  at  times  bring  these  ill-col- 
ored carpets  into  vogue  ;  but  in  apartments  where  elegance  is 
desirable,  they  always  have  a  bad  effect. 


2014.  For  a  carpet  to  be  really  beautiful  'and  in  good  taste, 
there  should  be,  as  in  a  picture,  a  judicious  disposal  of  light 
and  shadow,  with  a  gradation  of  very  bright  and  of  very  dark 
tints  ;  some  almost  white,  and  others  almost  or  quite  black. 


2015.  Bed  Carpets. — The  most  truly  chaste,  rich  and  ele- 
gant carpets,  are  those  where  the  pattern  is  formed  by  one 
color  only,  but  arranged  in  every  variety  of  shade.  For 
instance,  we  have  seen  a  Brussels  carpet  entirely  red ;  the 
pattern  formed  by  shades  or  tints,  varying  from  the  deepest 
crimson  (almost  a  black),  to  the  palest  pink  (ajmost  a  white). 


2016.  Green  Carpets, — Also  one  of  green  only,  shaded 
from  the  darkest  bottle-green,  in  some  parts  of  the  figure,  to 
the  lightest  pea-green  in  others. 


2017.  Brown   Carpets. — Another,  in   which  there  wos  no 
c©lor   but  brown,  in    all  its  various  gradation,   some  of  tbo 
29 


450  MES.    HALES    REGEIPIS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

shades  being  nearly  black,  others  of  a  light  bufF.     All  these 
carpets  had  much  the  look  of  rich  cut  yelvet. 


2018.  The    Curtains,  Sofas,  Sc,  of  course,  were  of  corre- 
sponding  colors,  and  the  effect  of  the  whole  was   noble  and 


elegant. 


2019.  Carpets  of  many  gaudy  colors  are  much  less  in 
demand  than  formerly.  Two  colors  only,  with  the  dark  and 
light  shade  of  each,  will  make  a  very  handsome  carpet. 

2020.  A  very  light  blue  ground,  with  the  figure  of  shaded 
crimson  or  purple,  looks  extremely  well  ;  so  does  a  salmon- 
color  or  buff  ground,  with  a  deep  green  figure ;  or  a  light  yel- 
low ground,  with  a  shaded  blue  figure. 


2021.  Bugs. — If  you  cannot  obtain  a  hearth-rug  that  exactly 
corresponds  with  the  carpet,  get  one  entirely  different ;  for  a 
decided  contrast  looks  better  than  a  bad  match. 


2022.  We  have  s^en  very  handsome  hearth-rugs  with  a  rich, 
black,  velvet-looking  ground,  and  the  figure  of  shaded  blue, 
or  of  various  tints  of  yellow  and  orange. 


2023.  A  carpet  decidedly  light-colored  throughout,  has  a 
good  effect  on  the  floor,  or  continues  long  to  look  clean. 


THINGS  TO  KNOW. 

2024.  Why  do  candles  and  lamps  ''spirt,"  when  rain  is  at 
hand  ? 

2025.  Because  the  air  is  filled  with  vapor,  and  the  humidity 
penetrates  the  wick,  where  (being  formed  into  steaD:i)  it  ex- 
pands suddenly,  and  produces  a  little  explosion. 


2026.  Why  does  a  drop  of  water  sometimes  roll  along  a 
piece  of  hot  iron  without  leaving  the  least  trace. 

202T.  Because  (when  the  iron  is  very  hot  indeed)  the  bot- 
tom of  the  drop  is  turned  into  vapor,  which  buoys  the  drop 
up,  without  allowing  it  to  touch  the  iron. 


THINGS    TO    KNOW.  451 

2028.  Why  does  a  laundress  put  a  little  saliva  on  a  flat-iron, 
to  know  if  it  be  hot  enough? 

2029.  Because,  when  the  saliva  sticks  to  the  box,  and  is 
evaporated,  she  knows  it  is  no^  sufficiently  hot :  but  when  it 
runs  along  the  iron,  it  is. 


2030.  Why  is  the  flat-iron  hotter,  if  the  saliva  runs  along 
it,  than  if  it  adheres  till  it  is  evaporated  ? 

2031.  Because,  when  the  saliva  runs  along  the  iron,  the 
heat  is  sufficient  to  convert  the  bottom  of  the  drop  into  vapor; 
but  if  the  saliva  will  not  roll,  the  iron  is  not  sufficiently  hot 
to  convert  the  bottom  of  the  drop  into  vapor. 


2032.  Why  do  wet  feet  or  clothes  give  us  "  cold ''? 

2033.  Because  the  evaporation  absorbs  the  heat  so  abun- 
dantly from  the  surface  of  our  body,  that  its  temperature  is  low- 
ered below  its  natural  standard  ;  in  consequence  of  which 
health  is  injured.  [This  also  explains  why  it  is  dangerous  to 
sleep  in  a  damp  bed.] 


2034.  Why  is  the  health  injured  when  the  temperature  of 
the  body  is  reduced  below  its  natural  standard  ? 

2035.  Because  the  balance  of  the  ^circulation  is  destroyed, 
blood  is  driven  away  from  the  external  surface  by  the  chill, 
and  thrown  upon  the  internal  organs,  which  are  oppressed  by 
this  increased  load  of  blood. 


2036.  Why  do  not  sailors  get  cold,  who  are  frequently  wet 
all  day  with  sea-water. 

203T.  Because  the  salt  of  the  sea  retards  evaporation ;  and 
(as  the  heat  of  their  bodies  is  drawn  off  gradually)  the  sensa- 
tion of  cold  is  prevented.  Also,  the  salt  of  the  sea  acts  as  a 
stimulant,  and  keeps  the  blood  circulating  in  the  skin. 


2038.  vVhat  is  the  cause  of  snow  ? 

2039.  When  the  air  is  nearly  saturated  with  vapor,  and 
condensed  by  a  current  of  air  below  freezing-point,  some  of 
the  vapor  is  condensed,  and  frozen  into  snow.  A  few  years 
ago,  some  fishermen  (who  wintered  at  Nova  Zcmbla),  after 
they  had  been  shut  up  in  a  hut  for  several  days,  opened  the 
window:  and  the  cold  external  air  rushing  in,  instantly  con- 


452  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

densed  the  air  of  the  hut,  and  its  vapor  fell  on  the  floor  in  a 
shower  of  snow. 


2040.  What  is  the  cause  of  sleet  ? 

2041.  When  flakes  of  snow  (in  their  descent)  pass  through 
a  bed  of  air  above  freezing  point,  they  partially  melt,  and  fall 
to  the  earth  as  half-melted  snow. 


2042.  What  is  hail  ? 

2043.  Kain  which  has  passed  in  its  descent  through  some 
cold  bed  of  air,  and  has  been  frozen  into  drops  of  ice. 


2044.  What  is  rain  ? 

2045.  The  vapor  of  the  clouds  or  air  condensed,  and  pre- 
cipitated to  the  earth. 


2046.  Why  are  rain-drops  sometimes  much  larger  than  at 
'  other  times  ? 

204t.  When  the  rain-cloud  is  floating  near  the  earth,  the 
drops  are  larger,  because  such  a  cloud  is  much  more  dense 
than  one  more  elevated.  The  size  of  the  rain-drop  is  also  in- 
creased according  to  the  rapidity  with  which  the  vapors  are 
condensed. 


2048.  Why  does  the  Bible  say  that  God  ''giveth  snow  like 
wool"  ? 

2049.  Because  snow  (being  a  very  bad  conductor  of  heat) 
protects  vegetables  and  seeds  from  the  frost  and  cold. 


2050.  How  does  the  non-conducting  power  of  snow  protect 
vegetables  from  the  frost  and  cold  ? 

2051.  It  prevents  the  heat  of  the  earth  from  being  drawn 
off  by  the  cold  air  which  rests  upon  it. 


2052.  Why  are  woolens  and  furs  used  for  clothiit^in  cold 
weather  ? 

2053.  Because  they  are  very  bad  conductors  of  heat,  and 
therefore  prevent  the  warmth  of  the  body  from  being  drawn  off 
by  the  cold  air. 


2054.  Do  not  woolens  and  furs  actually  impart  heat  to  the 
body  ? 


THINGS    TO    KNOW.  458 

2055.  No  ;  they  merely  prevent  the  heat  of  the  body  from 
escaping. 


2056.  Where  would  the  heat  escape  to,  if  the  body  were 
not  wrapped  in  wool  or  fur  ? 

205Y.  The  heat  of  the  body  would  fly  off  into  the  air  :  for 
the  cold  air,  coming  in  contact  with  our  body,  would  gradu- 
ally draw  away  its  heat,  till  it- was  as- cold  as  the  air  itself. 

2058.  What  then  is  the^  principal  use  of  clothing  in  winter 
time  ?  " 

2059.  To  prevent  the  animal  heat  from  escaping  too  freely; 
and  to  protect  the  body  from  the  external  air  (or  wind),  which 
would  carry  away  its  heat  too  rapidly. 


2060.  Why  are  March  winds  dry  ? 

2061.  Because  they  generally  blow  from  the  east  or  north- 
east, and  therefore  sweep  over  the  continent  of  America. 


2062.  What  is  the  use  of  March  winds  ? 

2063.  They  dry  the  soil  (which  is  saturated  by  the  floods 
of  February),  break  up  the  heavy  clods,  and  fit  the  land  for 
the  seeds  which  are  committed  to  it. 


2064.  Why  is  it  said  that  ^'  March  comes  in  like  a  lion  ?'' 

2065.  Because  it  comes  in  with  blustering  east  winds,  so 
essential  to  dry  the  soil,  which  would  otherwise  rot  the  seed 
committed  to  it. 


2066.  Why  does  "  March  go  out  like  a  lamb  V 

2067.  Because  the  water,  evaporated  by  the  high  winds, 
falls  again  in  showers  to  fertilize  the  earth,  and  breaks  the 
violence  of  the  winds. 


2068.  Why  is  it  said  that  ^'  March  flowers  make  no  summer 
bowers  ?''     .  - 

2069.  Because,  if  the  spring  be  very  mild,  vegetation  gets 
too  forward,  and  is  pinched  by  the  nightly  frosts,  so  as  to  pro- 
duce neither  fruits  nor  flowers. 


20*70.  Why  is  it  said   that   "  April   showers   bring   May 
flowei^s  V 


454  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

20n.  Because  April  showers  supply  the  principal  nourish- 
ment on  which  the  seeds  depend  for  their  development. 


2072.  Why  does  a  polished  metal  teapot  make  better  tea 
than  a  black  earthen  one  ? 

20Y3.  As  polished  metal  is  a  very  bad  radiator  of  heat,  it 
keeps  the  water  hot  much  longer ;  and  the  hotter  the  water 
is,  the  better  it  draws  the  tea. 


2074.  Why  will  not  a  dull  black  teapot  make  good  tea  ? 

2075.  Because  the  heat  of  the  water  flies  off  so  quickly, 
through  the  dull  black  surface  of  the  teapot,  that  the  water  is 
very  rapidly  cooled,  and  cannot  "  draw"  the  tea. 

2076.  Do  not  pensioners,  and  aged  cottagers,  generally 
prefer  the  black  earthen  teapot  to  the  bright  metal  one  ? 

2077.  Yes,  because  they  set  it  on  the  hob  to  ''draw;"  in 
which  case,  the  little  black  teapot  will  make  the  best  tea. 


2078.  Why  will  a  black  teapot  make  a  better  tea  than  a 
bright  metal  one,  if  it  is  set  on  the  hob  to  draw  ? 

2079.  Because  the  black  teapot  wiir absorb  heat  plentifully 
from  the  fire,  and  keep  the  water  hot ;  whereas  a  bright  metal 
teapot  (set  upon  the  hob)  would  throw  off  the  heat  by  reflec- 
tion. 


2080.  Then  sometimes  a  black  earthen  teapot  is  the  best, 
and  sometimes  a  bright  metal  one  ? 

2081.  Yes;  when  the  teapot  is  set  on  the  hob  to  ''draw,'' 
the  black  earth  is  the  best,  because  it  absorbs  heat ;  but  when 
the  teapot  is  not  set  on  the  hob  the  bright  metal  is  "the  best, 
because  it  radiates  heat  very  slowly,  and  therefore  keeps  the 
water  hot. 


2082.  Why  does  a  saucepan  which  has  been  used  boil  in  a 
shorter  time  than  a  new  one  ? 

2083.  Because  the  bottom  and  back  are  covered  with  soot, 
and  the  black  soot  rapidly  absorbs  the  heat  of  the  glowing 
coals. 


2084.  Why  should  the  front  and  lid  of  a  saucepan  be  clean 
and  bright  ? 


THIXGM     TO    KNOW.  455 

2085.  As  they  do  not  come  in  contact  with  the  fire,  they 
cannot  absorb  heat,  and  (being' bright)  they  will  not  suffer 
the  heat  to  escape  by  radiation. 


2086.  Why  should  not  the  bottom  and  back  of  a  kettle  be 
cleaned  and  polished  ? 

208 1.  Because  they  come  in  contact  with  the  fire,  and 
(while  they  are  covered  with  black  sooO  absorb  heat  freely 
from  the  burning  coals. 


2088.  Why  are  dinner-covers  made  of  bright  tin  or  silver? 

2089.  Because  light-colored  and  highly-polished  metal  is  a 
very  bad  radiator  of  heat ;  and,  therefore,  bright  tin  or  silver 
will  not  allow  the  heat  of  the  cooked  food  to  escape  through 
the  cover  by  radiation. 


2090.  Why  should  a  meat-cover  be  very  brightly  polished? 

2091.  If  the  cover  be  dull  or  scratched,  it  will  absorb  heat 
from  the  food  ;  and  instead  of  keeping  it  hot,  it  will  make  it 
cold. 


2092.  Why  should  a  silver  meat-cover  be  plain,  and  not 
chased  ? 

2093.  Because,  if  the  cover  be  chased,  it  will  absorb  heat 
from  the  food ;  and  instead  of  making  it  hot,  will  make  it 
cold. 


2094.  What  is  the  smoke  of  a  candle  ? 

2095.  Solid  particles  of  carbon,  separated  from  the  wick 
and  tallow,  but  not  consumed. 


2096.  Why  are  some  particles  consumed  and  not  others  ? 

2091.  The  combustion  of  the  carbon  depends  upon  its  com- 
bining with  the  oxygen  of  the  ain  Now,  as  the  outer  surface 
of  the  flame  prevents  the  access  of  air  to  the  interior  parts, 
much  of  the  carbon  of  those  parts  passes  ofl"  in  smoke. 


2098.  Why  do  lamps  smoke  ? 

2099.  Either  because  the   wick  is  cut  unevenly,   or  else 
because  it  is  turned  up  too  high. 


456  MRS.    HALE  S    RECEIPTS     FOR    THE    MILLION, 

2100.  Why  does  a  lamp  smoke,  when  th'e  wick  Is  cut  nn- 

evenly  ? 

2101.  Because  the  points  of  the  jagged  edge  (being  very 
easily  separated  from  the  wick)  load  the  flame  with  more  car- 
bon than  it  can  consume;  and  as  the  heat  of  the  flame  is 
greatly  diminished  by  these  little  bits  of  wicks,  it  is  unable  to 
consume  even  the  usual  quantity  of  smoke.  The  same  applies 
when  the  wick  is  turned  up  too  high. 


2102.  Why  does  a  lamp-glass  diminish  the  smoke  of  a  wick  ? 

2103.  Because  it  increases  the  supply  of  oxygen  to  the 
flame,  by  producing  a  draught;  and  it  concentrates  and  reflects 
the  heat  of  the  flame ;  in  consequence  of  which  the  combus- 
tion of  the  carbon  is  more  perfect,  and  very  little  escapes  un- 
consumed. 


2104.  Hints  about  Making  Butter  (See  page  281). — Milk 
should  never  be  set  for  butter  in  a  dark,  damp  cellar — as  in 
the  case  with  butter-makers  in  this  section — as  the  cream  is 
thereby  moulded  before  it  has  had  time  to  rise,  which  gives 
the  butter  a  mouldy  taste. 


2105.  The  milk  is  allowed  to  stand  too  long  before  being 
skimmed,  which  gives  it  a  cheesy  taste. 


2106.  The  cream  is  kept  too  lopg  before  it  is  churned,  after 
it  is  skimmed,  which  gives  it  the  taste  of  the  other  two ;  and 
also  a  sour  taste. 


210  (T.  The  butter  should  never  be  washed  in  water,  because 
it  takes  away  that  beautiful  aroma  so  essential  in  good  butter. 


2108.  It  should  never  be  taken  in  a  person's  warm  hands, 
as  the  heat  melts  a  certain  portion  of  the  globules,  which 
gives  it  an  oily  taste,  and  makes  it  become  rancid  very  soon.  * 


2109.  The  milk  should  be  set  in  good  clean  tin  or  earthen 
pans,  in  a  dry,  open,  airy  and  shady  place,  above  ground,  if 
possible,  although  a  cellar  may  be  so  built,  and  ventilated,  as 
to  answer  the  purpose. 


2110.  It  should  never  be  set  over  twenty-four  hours  in  warm 


CLEANLINESS.  457 

weather  ;  and  for  a  dairy  of  three  cows  or  over,  the  cream 
should  be  churned  every  morning,  and  never  be  kept  over 
forty-eight  hours,  in  warm  weather ;  in  cold  weather  it  may 
be  hept  longer. 


CLEANLIxN[»SS. 

2111.  The  want  of  cleanliness  is  a  fault  which  admits  of  no 
.  excuse.     Where  water  can  be  had  for  nothing,  it  is  surely  in 
the  power  of  every  person  to  be  clean. 


2112.  The  discharge  from  our  bodies,  by  perspiration,  ren- 
ders frequent  changes  of  apparel  necessary. 


2113.  Change  of  apparel  greatly  promotes  the  secretion 
from  the  skin,  so  necessary  to  health. 


2114.  When  that  matter  wdiich  ought  to  be  carried  off  by 
perspiration  is  either  retained  in  the  body,  or  reabsorbed  by 
dirty  clothes,  it  is  apt  to  occasion  fevers  and  other  diseases. 

2115.  Most  diseases  of  the  skin  proceed  from  want  of  clean- 
liness. These  indeed  may  be  caught  by  infection,  but  they 
will  seldom  continue  long  where  cleanliness  prevails. 


2116.  To  the  same  cause  must  we  impute  the  various  kinds 
of  vermin  that  infest  the  human  body,  houses,  &c.  These 
may  generally  be  banished  by  cleanliness  alone. 


2117.  Perhaps  the  intention  of  Nature,  in  permitting  such 
vermin  to  annoy  mankind,  is  to  induce  them  to  the  practice 
of  this  virtue. 


2118.  One  copmon  cause  of  putrid  and  malignant  fevers  is 
the  want  of  cleanliness. 


2119.  These  fevers  commonly  begin  among  the  inhabitants 
of  close,  dirty  houses,  who  breathe  bad  air,  take  little  exer- 
cise, use  unwholesome  food,  and  wear  dirty  clothes.  There 
the  infection  is  generally  hatched,  which  spreads  far  and  wide 


458  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

to  the  destruction  of  many.     Hence  cleanliness  may  be  cjon^ 
sidered  as  an  object  of  the  public  attention. 


2120.  It  is  not  sufficient  that  I  be  clean  myself,  while  the 
want  of  it  in  my  neighbor  affects  my  health  as  well  as  his  own. 


2121.  If  dirty  people  cannot  be  removed  as  a  common 
nuisance,  they  ought  at  least  to  be  avoided  as  infectious.  All 
w^ho  regard  their  health,  should  keep  at  a  distance,  even  from 
their  habitations. 


2122.  In  places  w^here  great  numbers  of  ],'eople  are  collected, 
cleanliness  becomes  of  the  utmost  importance. 


2123.  It  is  w^ell  known,  that  infectious  diseases  are  caused 
by  tainted  air.  Every  thing,  therefore,  which  tends  to  pollute 
the  air,  or  spread  the  infection,  ought  with  the  utmost  care  to 
be  avoided. 


2124.  For  this  reason,  in  great  towns,  no  filth  of  any  kind 
should  be  permitted  to  lie  upon  the  streets.  We  are  sorry  to 
say,  that  the  importance  of  general  cleanliness  does  by  no 
means  seem  to  be  sufficiently  understood. 


2125.  It  were  well  if  the  lower  classes  of  the  inhabitants  of 
the  United  States  would  imitate  the  Dutch,  in  the  cleanliness 
of  their  streets,  houses,  &c. 


2126.  Water,  indeed,  is  easily  obtained  in  Holland;  but 
the  situation  of  most  towns  in  the  United  States  is  more 
favorable  to  cleanliness. 


2127.  Nothing  can  be  more  agreeable  to  the  senses,  more  to 
the  honor  of  the  inhabitants,  or  conducive  to  their  health,  than 
a  clean  town  ;  nor  does  any  thing  impress  a*  stranger  sooner 
with  a  disrespectful  idea  of  any  people  than  its. opposite. 


2128.  It  is  remarkable,  that,  in  most  eastern  countries, 
cleanliness  makes  a  great  part  of  their  religion.  The  Maho- 
metan, as  w  el^  as  the  Jewish  religion,  enjoins  various  bathings, 
washings,  and  purifications. 


CLEANLINESS  459 

2129.  No  doubt  these  were  designed  to  represent  inward 
purity;  but  they  are  at  the  same  time  calculated  for  the  pre- 
servation of  health. 


2130.  However  whimsical  these  washings  may  appear  to 
some,  few  things  would  appear  more  to  prevent  diseases  than 
a  proper  attention  to  many  of  them. 


2131.  Were  every  person,  for  example,  after  handling  a  dead 
body,  visiting  the  sick,  &c.,  to  wash  and  to  change  his  clothes 
before  he  went  into  company,  or  sat  down  to  meat,  he  would 
run  less  hazard  either  of  catching  the  infection  himself,  or  com- 


municating it  to  others. 


2132.  Frequent  washing  not  only  removes  the  filth  which 
adheres  to  the  skin,  but  likewise  promotes  the  perspiration, 
braces  the  body,  and  enlivens  the  spirits. 


2133.  Even  washing  the  feet  tends  greatly  to  preserve 
health.  The  sweat  and  dirt  with  which  these  parts  are  fre- 
quently covered,  cannot  fail  to  obstruct  their  perspiration. 
This  piece  of  cleanliness  would  often  prevent  colds  and 
fevers. 


2134.  Were  people  to  bathe  their  feet  and  hands  in  warm 
watej:  at  night,  after  being  exposed  to  cold  or  wet  through 
the  day,  they  would  seldom  experience  any  of  the  fatal  effects 
which  often  proceed  from  these  causes. 


2135.  In  places  where  great  numbers  of  sick  people  are 
kept,  cleanliness  ought  most  religiously  to  be  observed.  The 
very  smell  in  such  places  is  often  sufficient  to  make  one  sick. 
It  is  easy  to  imagine  what  effect  that  is  likely  to  have  upon 
the  disease. 


2136.  A  person  in  health  has  a  greater  chance  to  become 
sick,  than  a  sick  person  has  to  get  well,  in  an  hospital  or  in- 
firmary vi^here  cleanliness  is  neglected. 


213T.  The  brutes  themselves  set  us  an  example  of  cleanli- 
ness. Most  of  them  seem  uneasy,  and  thrive  ill,  if  they  be  not 
kept  clean. 


460  MRa.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

2138.  A  horse  that  is  kept  thoroughly  clean,  will  thrive 
better  on  a  smaller  quantity  of  food,  than  with  a  greater,  where 
cleanliness  is  neglected. 


2139.  Even  our  own  feelings  are  sufiScient  proof  of  the 
necessity  of  cleanliness.  How  refreshed,  how  cheerful  and 
ugreeable  does  one  feel  on  being  shaved,  washed  and  dressed; 
especially  when  these  have  been  long  neglected. 


2140.  Most  people  esteem  cleanliness;  and  even  those  who 
do  not  practice  it  themselves,  ofteu  admire  it  in  others. 


2141.  Superior  cleanliness  sooner  attracts  our  regard  than 
even  finery  itself,  and  often  gains  esteem  where  the  other  fails. 


2142.  A  clean,  fresh,  and  well-ordered  house  exercises  over 
its  inmates  a  moral  no  less  than  a  physical  influence,  and  has 
a  direct  tendency  to  make  the  members  of  a  family  sober, 
peaceable,  and  considerate  of  the  feelings  and  happiness  of 
each  other  ;  nor  is  it  diiScult  to  trace  a  connection  between ^ 
habitual  feeling  of  this  sort  and  the  formation  of  habits  of 
respect  for  property,  for  the  laws  in  general,  and  even  for 
those  higher  duties  and  obligations  the  observance  of  which 
no  laws  can  enforce. 


PREVENTION  OF  ACCIDENTS. 

2143.  The  following  regulations  should  be  engraved  on  the 
memories  of  all : — 


2144.  As  most  sudden  deaths  come  by  water,  particular 
caution  is  therefore  necessary  in  its  vicinity. 


2145.  Stand  not  near  a  tree,  or  any  leaden  spout,  iron  gate, 
or  palisade,  in  time  of  lightning. 


2146.  Lay  loaded  guns  in  safe  places,  and  never  imitate 
firing  a  gun  in  jest. 


2147.  Never  sleep  near  charcoal ;  if  drowsy  at  any  work 
where  charcoal  fires  are  used,  take  the  fresh  air. 


HOUSEHOLD    RECEIPTS    FOR    MANY    THINGS.  461 

2148.  Carefully  rope  trees  before  they  are  cut  down,  that 
when  they  fall  they  may  do  no  injury. 


2149.  When  benumbed  with  cold,  beware  of  sleeping  out  of 
doors  ;  rub  yourself,  if  you  have  it  in  your  power,  with  snow, 
and  do  not  hastily  approach  the  fire. 


2150.  Beware  of  damps. 


2151.  Air  vaults,  by  letting  them  remain  open  some  time 
before  you  enter,  or  scattering  powdered  lime  in  them. 


2152.  Where  a  lighted  candle  will  not  burn,  animal  life  can 
not  exist ;  it  will  be  an  excellent  caution,  therefore,  before 
entering  damp  and  confined  places,  to  try  this  simple  experi- 
ment. 


2153.  Never  leave  saddle  or  draught  horses,  while  in  use, 
by  themselves,  nor  go  immediately  behind  a  led  horse  as  he  is 
apt  to  kick. 

2154.  Ride  not  on  foot-ways. 


2155.  Be  wary  of  children,  whether  they  are  up  or  in  bed  ; 
^nd  particularly  when  they  are  near  the  fire,  an  element  with 
which  they  are  very  apt  to  amuse  themselves. 


2156.  Leave  nothing  poisonous  open  or  accessible  ;  and 
never  omit  to  write  the  word  ''Poison^^  in  large  letters  upon 
it,  wherever  it  may  be  placed. 

^     215T.  In  walking  the  streets,  keep  out  of  the  line  of  the  cel- 
lars ;  and  never  look  one  \^ay  and  walk  another. 


2158.  Never  throw  pieces  of  orange-peel,  or  broken  glass 
bottles,  into  the  streets. 


2159.  Never  meddle  with  gunpowder  by  candle-light. 


2160.  In  trimming  a  lamp  with  naphtha,  never  fill  it.     Leave 
space  for  the  spirit  to  expand  with  warmth. 


462  MRS.  halb's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2161.  Never  quit  a  room,  leaving  the  poker  in  the  fire. 


2162.  When  the  brass  rod  of  the  stair-carpet  becomes  loose, 
fasten  it  immediately. 


2163.  In  opening  effervescing  drinks,  such  as  soda-water, 
hold  the  cork  in  your  hand. 


2164.  Quit  your  house  with  care  on  a  frosty  morning. 


2165.  Have  your  horses'  shoes  roughed  directly  there  are 
indications  of  frost. 


2166.  Keep  lucifer  matches  in  their  cases,  and  never  let 
them  be  strewed  about. 


ADDITIONAL   DOMESTIC    HINTS. 

2167.  Easy  method  of  Breaking  Glass  to  any  required 
Figure.' — Make  a  small  notch  by  means  of  a  file  on  the  edge 
of  a  piece  of  glass,  then  make  the  end  of  a  tobacco- 
pipe,  or  of  a  rod  of  iron  of  the  same  size,  red  hot  in  the  fire, 
apply  the  hot  iron  to  the  notch,  and  draw  it  slowly  along  the 
surface  of  the  glass  in  any  direction  you  please  ;  a  crack  will 
follow  the  direction  of  the  iron. 


2168.  Cleansing  of  Furniture. — The  cleaning  of  furniture 
forms  an  important  part  of  domestic  economy,  not  only  in 
regard  to  neatness,  but  also  in  point  of  expense. 


2169.  The  readiest  mode  indeed  consists  in  good  manual 
rubbing,  or  the  '^essence  of  elbows,''  as  it  is  whimsically  termed  ; 
l^ut  our  finest  cabinet-work  requires  something  more,  where 
brilliancy  of  polish  is  of  importance. 


21Y0.   China  and  Glass  Ware. — For  the  best  way  of  clean- 
ing, see  page  31. 


2111.  Much  of  the  red  now  used  in  China  is  actually  pro- 
duced by  the  ano/to  extracted  from  the  cuttings  of  scarlet 


AGRICULTURE — MORE    HINTS.  463 

cloth,  which  have  long  formed  an  article  of  exportation  to 
Canton. 


21^2.  It  ought  to  Ibe  taken  for  granted  that  all  china  or 
glassware  is  well  tempered ;  yet  a  little  careful  attention  may 
not  be  misplaced,  even  on  that  point. 


21T3.  Ornamental  china  or  glassware  are  not  exposed  to 
the  action  of  hot  water  in  common  domestic  use. 


21Y4.  It  will  be  proper  never  to  apply  water  to  them  be- 
"  yond  a  tepid  temperature. 


2175.  An  ingenious  and  simple  mode  of  annealing  glass  has 
been  some  time  in  use  by  chemists.  It  consists  in  immersing 
the  vessel  in  cold  water,  gradually  heated  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  suffered  to  remain  till  cold,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


2176.  Soap  and  labor  may  be  saved  by  dissolving  alum  and 
chalk  in  bran-water,  in  which  the  linen  ought  to  be  boiled, 
then  well  rinsed  out,  and  exposed  to  the  usual  process  of 
bleaching. 


217*7.  Soap  may  be  disused,  or  nearly  so,  in  the  getting  up 
of  muslins  and  chintzes,  which  should  always  be  treated  agree- 
ably to  the  oriental  manner  ;  that  is  to  wash  them  in  plain 
water,  and  then  boil  them  in  congee  or  rice-water  :  after  which 
they  ought  not  to  be  submitted  to  the  operation  of  tiie  smooth- 
ing iron,  but  rubbed  smooth  with  a  polished  stone. 


2178.  The  economy  which  must  result  from  these  processes 
renders  their  consideration  important  to  every  private  family, 
in  addition  to  which  we  must  state  that  the  improvements  in 
philosophy  extend  to  the  laundry  as  well  as  to  the  wash- 
house. 


AGRICULTURE— MORE  HINTS. 

(see  pages  198  AND  264.) 

2179.  Small  Farms, — Never  have  more  land  in  culture  than 
can  be  well  cultivated. 


464  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2180.  Be  a  Farmer,  not  a  mere  earth-scraper,  lazily  scratch- 
ing up  sufficient  earth  to  destroy  the  face  of  the  soil,  and 
throw  seed  away,  or  you  will  always  have  to  scratch  hard  for 
a  living.  But  make  your  farm  a  source  of  pride,  and  it  will 
surely  become  a  source  of  profit.  Mate  the  object  to  be  not 
to  have  manyj  but  Wc/i  acres. 


2181.  Turnip  Fly  may  be  expelled  by  the  use  of  fish-oil, 
one  or  two  gallons  to  the  acre. 

2182.  Bone  Dust. — An  English  proverb  says,  *^One  ton  of 
bone-dust  saves  the  importation  of  ten  tons  of  grain." 

2183.  Corn. — Sprinkling  with  salt  and  water  will  check 
the  weevil.  Of  all  the  grains,  corn  is  the  most  valuable,  tak- 
ing into  view  quantity  and  price.  Soaking  the  seed  in  a  solu- 
tion of  saltpetre  keeps  off  the  worm,  and  largely  increases  the 
crop. 


2184.  Rye  is  more  thrifty  on  soil  of  a  dry,  sandy,  or  gravely 
texture,  if  well  manured,  and  winters  best  when  sown  early. 


2185.  Lime,  as  manure  for  wheat,  is  of  great  importance 
Use  about  three  bushels  to  the  acre. 


2186.  Fields. — As  a  general  rule,  with  but  few  exceptions, 
square  large  fields  are  more  advantageous  than  small  irregular 
ones,  requiring  less  fence,  and  being  more  easily  watered, 
manured,  plowed,  and  harvested. 


21 8 Y.  Musty  Grain  is  made  sweet  by  putting  it  in  boiling 
water,  (double  the  quantity  of  grain),  letting  it  cool  in  the  wa- 
ter, and  then  drying  it  well.     Skim  the  water. 


2188.  A  Single  Weed  may  draw  out  the  nourishment  that 
would  have  given  fullness  to  half-a-dozen  ears.  To  be  free 
from  taxes  is  far  less  important  than  to  be  free  from  weeds. 


2189.  Fences. — Around  each  post  hill  the  earth,  to  carry 
off  the  water,  and  charr  the  end  a  few  inches  above  the  sur- 
face. Cedar  fences  last  about  15  years,  which  should  lead 
owners  to  inquire  where  the  fences  are  to  come  from  hereafter. 


AGRICULTURE — MORE    HINTS.  465 

2190.  Manure. — Every  farmer  can  double  the  quantity  of 
his  domestic  or  yard  manure,  with  scarcely  any  additional  ex 
pense.     At  least  fifty  per  cent,  of  the  nutritive  properties  of 
yard  manure  are  lost  by  drenching  of  rains,  excessive  ferment- 
ation, and  injurious  application  to  so!!. 


2191.  Plow  deep, — Let  a  farmer  examine  the  extent  and 
depth  to  which  the  roots  of  grain,  in  a  loose  and  favorable 
soil,  will  spread,  and  he  will  cease  to  wonder  at  the  failure  of 
a  crop  where  the  subsoil  has  never  been  stirred  by  the  plow. 


2192.  Green  vegetables,  when  put  under  the  soil  and  sub- 
mitted to  the  process  of  decomposition,  are  efficacious  in  re- 
storing exhausted  soils. 


2193.  Fertilizing. — Buckwheat  and  clover  are  striking  in- 
stances of  this  power  in  green  crops  to  fertilize  soils,  and 
both  have  been  extensively  used  for  this  purpose. 


2194.  Agriculture  is  worthy  the  most  liberal  patronage  of 
our  governments,  state  and  national ;  it  ought  to  be  enlight- 
ened by  a  better  (and  thorough)  education  of  the  agricultural 
class. 


2195.  Three  Pillars  of  the  State. — Agriculture,  manufac- 
tures, commerce,  stand  together  ;  but  they  stand  together  like 
pillars  in  a  cluster,  the  largest  in  the  centre,  and  that  largest 
is  agriculture. 


2196.  The  Givilizer. — Let  us  never  forget  that  the  cultiva- 
tion of  the  earth  is  the  most  important  labor  of  man.  Man, 
without  the  cultivation  of  the  earth,  is  in  all  countries  a  savage. 
When  tillage  begins,  other  arts  follow.  The  farmers,  there- 
fore, are  the  founders  of  human  civilization. 


219Y.  Independence  of  Farmers. — We  live  in  a  country  of 
small  farms  ;  a  country,  in  which  men  cultivate  with  their  own 
hands,  their  own  fee-simple  acres  ;  drawing  not  only  their  sub- 
sistence, but  also  their  spirit  of  independence,  and  manly  free- 
dom from  the  ground  they  plow. 

2198.    The  Olory  of  Agriculture. — '*  The  task  of  working 


466  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

improvements  on  the  earth  is  much  more  delightful  than  dl 
the  vain  glory  which  can  be  acquired  by  ravaging  it  with  the 
most  uninterrupted  career  of  conquests." — Washington 


CATTLE. 

(see  page  289.) 

2199. —  Treat  Domestic  Animal s  kindly  and  tenderly.--^ 
Domestic  animals  of  all  kinds  from  a  horse  down  to  a  chick- 
en, should  be  treated  with  gentleness  and  mildness ;  men  or 
boys  who  are  rash  and  bad-tempered,  ought  not  to  be  permitted 
to  have  charge  of  them  or  to  interfere  with  their  management. 
Animals  that  are  kept  in  constant  fear  of  suffering  never  thrive 
well,  and  they  often  become  vicious  and  intractable  by  unkind 
and  cruel  treatment. 


2200.  Keep  Stock  in  good  condition. — An  animal  may  be 
kept  short  of  food  in  the  latter  part  of  the  fall  or  first  of  win- 
ter, at  a  small  saving  of  food  but  at  a  loss  in  the  condition  of 
the  animal. 


2201.  Stables  and  Food. — Provide  comfortable  sheds  and 
stables.  Kemeraber  that  a  want  of  comfort  is  always  a  waste 
of  flesh.  Give  a  sufficiency  of  food  and  drink,  with  great  regu- 
larity. A  meal  ten  minutes  later  than  the  usual  time,  causes 
the  animal  to  fret,  and  fretting  lessens  flesh. 


2202.  Drink  and  Litter, — Most  animals  will  drink  several 
times  a  day,  and  should  therefore  have  it  as  often  as  they  want 
it.  They  should  have  plenty  of  clean  litter  as  often  as  needed. 
With  such  management,  there  will  be  an.  almost  incredible 
saving  of  food. 

Tight  Stables  should  always  be  ventilated.  The  breath  and 
manure  from  animals  always  causes  impure  air. 


2203.  Oocen. — Being  well-mated,  oxen  are  more  easily 
trained  ;  and  the  more  easily  to  effect  this,  much  self-denial  on 
the  part  of  the  driver,  much  coolness  of  temper,  more  training 
by  motion  and  less  by  voice,  may  be  highly  advantageous  to 
man  and  beast. 


2204.    To  Select. — Adopt  the  practice   of   selecting  best 


CATTLE.  461 

lambs  every  year,  for  stock.  In  a  few  years  you  have  first- 
rate  sheep.  The  same  course  will  produce  the  same  effects 
in  every  kind  of  animal. 


2205.  Hogs. — Food. — If  pumpkins,  roots,  apples,  or  any 
of  them  be  fed  to  fattening  hogs  with  corn,  the  advantage  will 
-^be  salutary.     Most  of  the  food  for  swine  should  be  cooked. 
•Swine  fatten  much  faster  on  fermented,  than  on  unfermented 
food.     Salt,  charcoal,  and  once  in  a  while  sulphur,,  are  excel- 
lent for  hogs  under  all  circumstances. 

Good  Medicine. — When  your  hogs  get  sick,  you  know  not 
of  what,  give  them  ears  of  corn,  first  dipped  in  tar,  and  then 
rolled  in  sulphur.. 


2206.  Bees. — (See  p.  116). — Every  farmer  should  keep 
bees  ;  a  few  swarms  to  furnish  honey  for  his  own  use,  if  no 
more.  They  toil  with  unremitting  industry,  asking  but  a  full 
sweep  of  the  wing,  and  no  monopoly.  Every  man,  in  either 
town  or  country,  can  keep  bees  to  advantage. 


220T.  Care  of  Bees  in  Winter. — A  cold,  dry,  dark  room,  is 
the  best  winter-quarters  for  bees.  They  will  consume  less 
honey  than  if  left  on  their  summer  stands,  and  will  not  be  weak- 
ened by  the  loss  of  thousands,  which,  tempted  out  by  the  pre- 
mature warmth,  are  caught  by  the  cold  winds,  fall  to  the 
ground,  and  never  rise  again. 

2208.  ^' Never  kill  a  6ee."— -The  smoke  of  the  fungus  maxi- 
muSj  or  common  puff  ball,  when  dried  so  as  to  hold  fire,  has 
a  stupefying  effect  on  the  bees,  and  renders  them  as  harmless 
as  brimstone  does,  without  any  of  its  deadly  effects. 


2209.  Mignonette^  Sweet. — Is  especially  .mentioned  as  easily 
cultivated  by  drills  in  a  garden,  and  is  one  of  the  finest  and  rich- 
est Bowers  in  the  world  from  which  the  honey-bee  can  extract 
its  food. 


2210.  iZbrses.— See  page  199. 


2211.  To  cure  Scratches  on  a  Horse. — Wash  the  legs  with 
warm  strong  soap-suds,  and  then  with  beef  brine.  Two  ap- 
plications will  cure  the  worst  case. 


468  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2212.  Bite  of  a  Spider. — Catnip  bruised  and  applied  to 
the  wound,  is  said  to  be  a  cure  for  the  bite  of  a  spider. 


2213.    To  preserve  a  Granary  from  Insects  and  Weasels, — 
Make  the  floor  of  Lombardy  poplars. 


2214.    To  prevent  the  Creaking  of  a  Door. — Rub  a  bit  of 
soap  on  the  hinges.  ^  • 


2215.   Sulphur  is  valuable  in  preserving  grapes,  plants,  &c., 
from  insects. 


2216.  Salt  is  really  necessary  to  horses,  cnttle,  and  sheep, 
and  they  should  be  supplied  with  it  at  regular  stated  intervals 
throughout  all  seasons  of  the  year. 

22 lY.  Manure,  on  a  wet  soil,  produces  but  half  its  effect ; 
and  gypsum,  that  grand  stimulant  of  dry  soils,  on  a  wet  one 
is  useless. 


2218.  nen-House  should  be  warm  in  winter,  well-ventila- 
ted, white-washed,  and  kept  clean.  For  the  floor,  use  slacked 
lime,  fine  gravel  or  ashes,  or  burnt  oyster  shells.    (See  page  200.) 

2219.  A  single  dozen  fowls,  properly  attended,  will  furnish 
a  family  with  more  than  2,000  eggs  in  a  year,  and  100  full- 
grown  chickens  for  fall  and  winter  stores. 

2220.  Expense. — The  expense  of  feeding  the  dozen  fowls 
will  not  amount  to  18  bushels  of  Indian  corn.  They  may  be 
kept  in  cities  as  well  as  in  the  country,  and  will  do  as  well  shut 
up  the  year  round  as  to  run  at  large,  with  proper  care. 


2221.  A  Fact. — Eggs   the   nearest  to   roundness  produce 
females,  and  those  pointed  at  one  end  always  produce  males. 


2222.  For  Fattening. — Boiled  Indian,  wheat  and  barley,  is 
better  than  oats,  rye,  or  buckwheat.  One-third  is  gained  by 
boiling. 


2223.  Eggs,  little  boiled  or  poached,  in  small  quantity,  con- 
vey much  nourishment ;  the  yolk  only  should  be  eaten  by  in* 
valids 


CATTLE.  469 

2224.  Salt  for  Poultry. — Salt  is  good  for  water-fowls,  but 
death  to  land  fowls  and  birds.   • 


2225.  Salt  for  Pigeons. — Pigeons  are  fond  of  salt,  and  it 
keeps  them  in  health.  Lay  a  large  heap  of  clay  near  the 
house,  and  let  the  salt-brine  that  may  be  done  with  in  the  fam- 
ily be  poured  upon  it. 


2226.  To  Fatten  Foivls  in  a  short  time.~^i\x  together 
ground  rice  well  scalded  with  milk,  and  add  some  coarse  sugar. 
Feed  them  with  this  in  the  day-time,  but  not  too  much  at  once  ; 
let  it  be  pretty  thick. 


222T.  Pork  cured. — Soon  as  cool  enough  to  cut,  and  before 
it  freezes,  pack  a  clean  cask  full,  with  plenty  of  salt  on  all 
side's  of  each  piece.  Fill  up  with  water,  taking  care,  by  means 
of  a  large  stone,  to  keep  the  pork  under  the  pickle,  and  covered 
from  flies,  in  a  cellar.     Never  boil  pickle. 


2228.  Porlc  Feeding. — It  is  a  well-ascertained  fact,  that 
more  meat  will  be  made  on  half  the  weight  of  corn,  if  ground 
and  made  into  mush  instead  of  being  fed  whole. 


2229.  In  Smoking  Hams,  &c.,  be  careful  not  to  have  -the 
fire  too  nigh,  or  the  smoke-house  too  tight.  It  is  best  done 
in  an  upper  story,  to  which  the  smoke  is  conveyed  in  tubes, 
from  oak  or  maple  chips  in  the  cellar.     (See  p.  324.) 


2230.  Holloio  Horn. — Where  supposed  to  exist,  feed  half- 
peck  potatoes  twice  a  week,  and  treat  your  cattle  kindly  in 
food  and  shelter. 


2231.   Sheep  must  be  fed  well,  kept  dry,  have  salt  often, 
and  pure  air,  and  be  grazed  in  hilly  stony  pastures. 


2232.  Cows. — Those  who  wish  their  cows  to  give  largo 
messes  of  milk  in  the  winter  season,  should  give  them  warm 
drink.  The  extra  trouble  will  be  more  than  repaid  in  the  in- 
creased quantity  of  milk.     (See  pp.  285-6.) 


2233.    Wild  Onion  may  be  destroyed  by  cultivating  corn, 
plowing  and  leaving  the  field  in  its  plowed  state  all  winter. 


no  MRS.  HALE*S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2234.  Rememher. — The  great  rule  in  relation  to  animals 
holds  perfect  in  its  application  to  vegetables  ;  breed  only  from 
the  best  animals  ;  defects  and  imperfections  have  always  a 
tendency  to  propagate  themselves^  and  are  always,  in  a  greater 
or  less  degree,  transmitted. 


2235.  Wheat  shoots  strongest  when  there  is  an  interval  be- 
tween the  time  of  plowing  and  sowing,  but  barley  \^  most 
vegetative  when  sown  immediately  after  the  plow. 


2236.  Grease  Wheels. — Fifty  parts,  by  weight,  of  pulverized 
black  lead,  50  of  lard,  50  of  soap,  and  5  of  quicksilver.  Rub 
the  lard  and  mercury  first  together,  then  the  lead  and  soap.  If 
V7ell  mixed,  it  is  invaluable. 


223^.  Plants,  when  drooping,  are  revived  by  a  few  grains 
of  camphor. 


2238.     Floiuers  beginning  to  fade,  can  be  restored  by  put- 
ting the  stems  in  scalding  water. 


2239.  Bacon  Hams  in  Summer. — Pack  in  a  barrel,  in  clean 
dvj  ashes  or  charcoal ;  head  up  the  barrel  and  put  it  where  it 
is  dry,  and  as  cool  as  possible. 


2240.  Timber  cut  in  the  spring  and  exposed  to  the  weather 
with  the  bark  on,  decays  much  sooner  than  that  cut  in  the  fall. 

> 

2241.  In  Feeding  with  corn,  60  lbs.  ground  goes  as  far  as 
100  lbs.  in  the  kernel. 


2242.  Apples. — Experiments  show  apples  to  be  equal  to 
potatoes  to  improve  hogs,  and  decidedly  profitable  for  fatten- 
ing cattle. 


2243.  Pears  are  greatly  improved  by  grafting  on  the  moun- 
tain ash. 


2244.  Bats  and  other  vermin  are  kept  away  from  grain  by 
ft  sprinkling  of  garlic  when  packing  the  sheaves. 


GRASS — TREES.  471 

2245.  Wet  Land. — Money  skillfully  expended  in  drying 
land,  by  draining  or  otherwise,  will  be  retiinied  with  ample 
interest. 


2246.   Grass. — Sweet  and  nutritions  grass  gives  a  richness 
and  flavor  to  milk,  attainable  from  no  otlier  source. 


224T.  Curing  Fodder,' — Bundles  may  be  so  placed  around 
centre-poles  as  to  form  a  hollow-stack,  having  a  foundation  of 
brush,  sticks,  &c.,  admitting  a  circulation  of  air  that  will  tho- 
roughly cure  fodder  in  the  shade. 

2248.  Turnips  of  small  size  have  double  the  nutritious  mat- 
ter that  large  ones  have. 


2249.  Buta  Baga  is  the  only  root  that  increases  in  nutri- 
tious qualities  as  it  increases  in  size. 


2250.  In  transplanting  trees,  the  hole  should  not  be  pro- 
portioned to  the  extent  of  the  roots  as  they  are,  but  to  their 
extent  as  they  may  he  and  should  he. 


2251.  Toads  are  the  very  best  protection  of  cabbages  against 
lice.  ' 


2252.  Beach  Trees  are  protected  from  hard  winters  by  co- 
vering the  roots  a  foot  deep  with  straw,  in  January,  after  the 
ground  has  become  thoroughly  frozen,  which  keeps  the  frost 
in  the  ground,  and  so  prevents  the  sap  from  starting  until  the 
Spring  is  fairly  opened. 


2253.  Save  your  Fire  Wood. — Mr.  Madison,  in  his  Notes 
of  Agriculture,  says,  ''  Of  all  the  errors  in  our  rural  economy, 
none  perhaps  is  to  be  so  much  regretted,  because  none  so  diffi- 
cult to  be  repaired,  as  the  excessive  and  injudicious  destruc- 
tion of  fire-wood. 


.  2254.  Sorrel  may  be  killed  out  by  lime,  while  ashes  have  no 
effect  on  it. 


2255.   Shumac  or  Sumac,  a  poisonous  shrub  or  plant,  which 
grows  wild  in  abundance,  and  frequently  where  nothing  else 


472  MRS.  bale's  receipts  foe  the  million. 

will,  is  used  for  dyeing  in  England,  at  the  rate  of  thirteen 
thousand  tons  per  annum.  It  might  be  made  a  source  of 
profit  to  our  farmers. 


GARDEjSTII^G 

(see  page  291.) 
2256.  Kitchen  Garden. — This  is  one  of  the  most  important 
parts  of  general  domestic  economy,  whenever  the  situation  of 
a  house  will  permit  a  family  to  avail  themselves  of  its  assist- 
ance, in  aid  of  butcher's  bills. 


225T.  It  is,  indeed,  much  to  be  regretted  that  small  plots 
of  ground,  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  metropolis  more 
especially,  arc  too  often  frittered  away  into  shrubberies  and 
baby  gardens,  when  they  might  more  usefully  be  employed  in 
raising  vegetables  for  the  family,  during  the  week-day  resi- 
dence in  town,  than  wasting  their  sweetness  on  the  smoky  air 
in  all  the  pride  of  lilac,  hollyhock,  and  bachelors'  buttons,  to 
be  merely  smelled  to,  by  the  whole  immigrating  household  ou 
the  day  of  rest. 


2258.  With  a  little  care  and  attention,  a  kitcnen-garden, 
though  small,  might  be  rendered  not  only  useful,  but  in  fact, 
as  ornamental  as  a  modern  grass  carpet ;  and  the  same 
expense  incurred  to  make  the  ground  a  labyrinth  of  sweets, 
might  suffice  to  render  it  agreeable  to  the  palate,  as  well  as  to 
the  olfactory  nerves,  and  that  even  without. offending  the  most 
delicate  optics. 


2259.  It  is  only  in  accordance  with  our  plan  to  give  the 
hint,  and  to  record  such  novel  points  as  may  facilitate  the 
proposed  arrangement. 


2260.  It  is  one  objection  to  the  adoption  of  a  kitchen  gar- 
den in  front  of  the  dwelling,  or  in  sight  of  the  family  apart- 
ments, that  its  very  nature  makes  it  rather  an  eye-sore  than 
otherwise  at  all  seasons. 


2261.  This,  however,  is  an  objection  that  may  be  readily 
got  over  by  a  little  attention  to  neatness  and  good  order, 
whilst  the  plants  themselves,  if  judiciously  attended  to,  and 


DRYING    HERBS.  4t3 

the  borders  sown  or  planted  with  ranur>culus,  polyanthus,  mig- 
nionette,  &c.,  in  succession,  will  really  be  ornamental. 


2262.  But  then,  in  cutting  the  plants  for  use,  the  business 
must  be  done  neatly,  all  useless  leaves  cleared  from  the  ground, 
the  roots  no  longer  wanted  taken  up,  and  the  ravages  of  in- 
sects to  be  guarded  against  by  sedulous  extirpation.  It  will 
also  be  found  a  great  improvement,  where  space  will  admit  of 
it,  to  surround  the  beds  with  neat  espaliers,  with  fruit  trees, 
or  even  gooseberry  and  currant  bushes  trained  along  them, 
instead  of  these  being  suffered  to  grow  in  a  state  of  ragged 
wildness. 


DRYING  HERBS. 

2263/  Fresh  herbs  are  preferable  to  dried  ones,  but  as  they 
cannot  always  be  obtained,  it  is  most  important  to  dry  herbs 
at  the  proper  seasons  : — 


2264.  Basil  is  in  a  fit  state  for  drying  about  the  middle  of 
August. 


2265.  Burret  in  June,  July,  and  August. 

2266.  Chervil  in  May,  June,  and  July. 
226T.  Elder  Flowers  in  May,  June,  and  July. 

2268.  Fennel  in  May,  June,  and  July. 

2269.  Knotted  Marjoram  during  July. 

2210.  Lemon  Thyme  end  of  July,  and  through  August. 

22U.  3Iint  end  of  June  and  July 

2212.  Orange  Flowers  May,  June,  and  July. 

2213.  Orange  Thyme  (a  delicious. herb),  June  and  July. 

2214.  Parsley  May,  June,  and  July 


414  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2215.  Sage,  August  and  September 


2216.  Summer  Savory,  end  of  July  and  August. 

2211.  Tarragon,  June,  July,  and  August. 

2218.  Thyme,  end  of  July  and  August. 

2219.  Winter  Savory,  end  of  July  and  August. 

2280.  These  herbs  always  at  hand  will  be  a  great  aid  to  the 
cook. 


2281.  Herbs  should  be  gathered  on  a  dry  day ;  they  should 
be  immediately  well  cleansed,  and  dried  by  the  heat  of  a  stove, 
or  Dutch  oven. 


2282.  The  leaves  should  then  be  picked  off,  pounded  and 
sifted,  and  put  away  for  use. 


PROPERTIES   AND   USES   OF   VEGETABLES. 
2283.  Parsley  is  very  cooling  and  softening. 


2284.   Catnip  is  a  warm  herb,  of  a  diaphoretic  or  sweating 
nature. 


2285.  Pennyroyal  is  much  the  same,  only  more  powerful. 
It  retains  a  very  powerful  pungent  oil. 


2286.  Spearmint  is  pungent  and  hot,  but  of  an  astringent 
nature. 


2281.   Calamint  is  much  the  same,  but  not  so  strong. 


2288.  Hoarhound  is  very  strengthening  to  the  lungs,  and 
is  somewhat  of  a  pectoral.  It  is  excellent  in  a  cough,  or  stop- 
age  in  the  stomach. 


2289.  Everlasting,  or  Indian  Posey,  is  a  verv  balsamic 


PROPERTIES    AND    USES    OF    VEGETABLES.  4'j5 

herb — healing  and  cooling,  and   excellent  in  salves  or  oint- 
ment. 


2290.  Jolinswort  is  much  the  same. 


2291.  Pea  Balm  is  a  cooling  and  sweating  herb,  and  is 
good  in  fevers  and  inflammations. 


2292.  Chamomile  is  a  great  restorative  to  the  lungs,  and 
promotes  perspiration.  It  is  good  in  salves  and  ointments  to 
take  awaj  swellings. 

2293.  Mayweed  is  of  a  pectoral  nature,  and  is  good  for  a 
pain  in  the  side. 

2294.  Garden  Coltsfoot  is  a  great  restorative  to  the  lungs, 
and  is  good  in  syrups  for  coughs. 


2295.  Melilot  is  good  in  salves  and  ointments  for  swellings 
and  inflammations.     It  is  mollifying  and  cooling. 

2296.  Sage  is  the  greatest  restorative  to  human  nature  of 
any  herb  that  grows. 


2297.  Bloodroot  is  a  very  powerful  emetic  or  purge :  steeped 
in  spirits,  it  will  serve  for  an  emetic  ;  and  boiled  in  fair  water 
it  serves  as  a  purge. 


2298.  Mandi^ake  root  is  an  excellent    physic,  dried  and 
pounded. 


2299.   Cumfrey  and  Spikenard  are  so  well  known  that  they 
need  no  describing. 


2300.  Elecampane  is  good  in  coughs,  yet  it  is  an  astrin- 
gent. 


2301.   Craneshill  is  an  astringent,  and  excellent  in  cankers. 


2302.    Whiteroot  is  of  a  physical  nature,  and  is  good  to 
remove  wind  pent  in  the  stomach,  or  part  of  the  bowels. 


^6  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2303.  Sassafras  root  is  good  for  the  blood. 


2304.  So  also  are  Sarsaparilla,  Horse  Badish,  Burdock 
roots.  Elder  .roots. 


2305.  Hop  roots,  and  Wild  Coltsfoot  are  good  as  pectorals. 


2306.    WJiife  and  Telloiv  Pond  Lily  roots,  the  same. 


230T.  Winter^s  Bark. — This  is  the  product  of  one  of  the 
the  largest  trees  on  Terra  del  Fuego.  It  is  good  in  dropsy 
and  scurvy. 

2308.  •  Wild  Jenton  is  a  strong  cathartic,  when  boiled. 


VEGETABLES  TO  CULTIVATE. 

2309.  Artichoke. — Sow  early  in  the  Spring,  in  rows  three 
inches  apart,  or  plant  suckers. 


2310.  Asparagus. — Sow  in  April,  in  good  rich  soil. 


2311.  Beans.     English  Dwarfs. — -Plant   as   early  in   the 
Spring  as  the  ground  will  work. 


2312.  Kidney  Dwarfs. — Plant  from  end  of  April  to  about 


20th  August. 


2313.  Pole  or  Punning. — Plant  beginning  of  May,  and  at 
intervals  through  the  season. 


2314.  Beets. — Sow  in  drills,  from  early  in  the  Spring  till 
the  middle  of  Summer.  Leave  the  plants  6  to  8  inches  apart 
in  the  drills. 


2315.  Borecole  is  an  excellent  green.     Sow  in  Fall,  either 
broadcast  or  in  drills,  as  for  Winter  Spinach. 


2316.  Brussels  Sprouts  are  cultivated  for  the  small  heads, 
which  are  attached  to  the  stem.  Sow  in  the  middle  of  Spring, 
and  treat  as  AVinter  Cabba-2:e. 


VEGETABLES    TO    CULTIVATE.  4t7 

23n.  Brocoli  produces  heads  like  cauliflower.  Sow  in 
seed  bed  about  the  middle  of  Spring.  Transplant  in  rich 
ground  when  8  or  12  inches  high,  and  treat  as  Winter  Cab- 
bage. 


2318.  Cabbage. — For  early  cabbage,  sow  in  Autumn,  in 
seed  beds.  Protect  during  Winter ;  transplant  early  in  the 
Spring.  For  late  Cabbage,  sow  in  seed  bed,  middle  of  Spring. 
Transplant  early  in  Summer. 


2319.   Cardoon  is  much  used  for  salads,  soups,  and  stews. 
Treated  much  like  Celery. 


2320.  Cauliflower. — Sow,  for  early,  in  seed  beds,  in  Au- 
tumn ;  protect  from  frost,  in  cold  frames,  and  transplant  in 
rich  ground  after  frost  ceases.     For  late,  manage  as  Brocoli. 

2321.  Carrots  should  be  sown  early  in  the  Spring,  in  deep- 
dug  and  well-manured  ground,  in  drills  twelve  or  eighteen 
inches  apart. 

2322.  Celery  should  be  sown  early  in  the  Spring,  in  light 
rich  moist  soil.  Transplant  in  trenches,  highly  manured,  when 
about  six  inches  high.  Blanch  by  earthing  up  as  they  advance 
in  growth. 

2323.  Chervil. — A  small  salad.  Sow  early  in  the  Spring, 
and  after  heat  of  Summer. 


2324.   Cress. — Used  as  a  salad.     Sow  very  thick,  in  shallow 
drills,  at  intervals  through  the  season. 


2325.  Corn  Salad. — Used  as  a  salad  during  the  Winter 
and  Spring.  Sow  thick,  in  drills,  about  ]st  of  September, 
and  cover  with  straw  on  the  approach  of  cold. 

2326.  Cucumbers  should  be  planted  first  week  in  May,  in 
hills  four  feet  apart ;  prepare  the  ground  by  incorporating  a 
shovelful  of  rotten  dung  in  each  hill. 

232t.  Endive. — Sow  last  of  Spring  to  middle  of  Summer, 
in  shallow  drills. 


478  MRS.    bale's     RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2328.  Egg-Plant. — Sow  in  hot-beds  early  in  the  Sprin^i^ ; 
transplant  in  rich  warm  gronnd  late  in  the  Spring,  about  30 
inches  apart.  Egg-plant  seed  will  not  vegetate  freely  without 
a  substantial  heat. 


2329.  Lettuce  should  be  sown  in  seed  bed,  in  the  middle  of 
September  ;  protect  the  plants  through  the  Winter,  and  early 
in  the  Spring  transplant  in  rich  ground  ;  or  sow  in  hot-beds, 
in  March,  and  at  intervals  throughout  the  season. 


2330.  IfeZon.— Plant  in  hills,  in  light  sandy  earth,  about 
the  first  week  in  May. 


2331.  Mushroom  Spawn  should  be  planted  in  hot-beds  of 
dung,  covered  with  earth. 


2332.  Mustard. — Sown  like  Cress,  and  used  for  a  salad. 


2333.  Nastmiium, — Sow  in  May.  The  flowers  and  young 
leaves  are  used  as  a  salad  ;  the  seed-pods,  with  foot-stalk, 
are  gathered  whilst  green,  and  pickled  as  a  substitute  for  ca- 
pers. 


2334.  Okra^  or  Gomho,  is  one  of  the  best  of  vegetables. 
Plant  in  May.  The  seed  should  be  sown  thick,  as  it  is  liable 
to  rot  in  the  ground.     Yery  rich  ground  is  required. 

2335.  Onions  should  be  sown  in  drills,  early  in  the  Spring, 
in  rich  ground,  thin,  to  stand  two  or  three  inches  apart. 


2336.  Parsley  should  be  sown  early  in  the  Spring.     Soak 
in  warm  water  before  sowino;. 


2337.  Parsnip. — Sow  in  drills  18  inches  apart,  in  good  and 
deep-dug  ground,  early  in  the  Spring. 


2338.  Peas.— The  best  soil  for  Peas  is  a  light  loam.  The 
early  sorts  require  noh.  ground.  Sow  in  drills  as  early  in  the 
Spring  as  the  ground  will  work. 


2339.  Pepper. — Sow  late  in  Spring,  in  drills,  on  a  warm 


VEGETABLES    TO    CULTIVATE.         ,  4t9 

border  ;  or  in  a  frame  or  hot-bed,  in  March  ;  set  out  plants 
eighteen  inches  apart. 

2340.  Pumpkin, — The  Mammoth  Pumpkin  has  been  grown 
to  the  enormous  weight  of  225  pounds.  Plant  early  in  May, 
in  rich  soil,  in  hills,  eight  to  ten  feet  apart  each  way. 


'    2341.  Hadish. — The  early  kinds  should  be  sown  as  soon  as 
the  ground  can  be  worked,  in  a  sheltered  situation. 


2342.  Bhubarb  should  be  sown  in  Autumn  or  early  in  the 
Spring;  when  in  the  latter,  transplant  in  the  ensuing  Spring 
to  desired  situation.  The  stems  are  used  for  tarts,  and  are  fit 
for  use  before  green  fruit  can  be  obtained,  being  a  very  desir- 
able substitute. 


2343.  Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster,  should  be  sown  during 
April.  The  roots  boiled,  made  into  cakes  with  paste,  and 
fried  like  oysters,  much  resembles  them. 


2344.  Spinach  should  be  sown  as  soon  as  the  ground  can 
be  worked.     The  soil  cannot  be  too  rich  for  Spinach. 


3345.  Squash, — Cultivate  same  as  Cucumber. 


2346.  Tomato. — Sow  in  hills  three  feet  apart,  on  a  warm  bor 
der,  early  in  the  Spring.  As  the  plants  advance  in  growth 
give  them  support. 


2347.  Turnip. — For  summer  use,  sow  early  in  the  Spring, 
For  main  crop,  sow  close  of  Summer.  The  Ruta  Baga  requires 
more  time  to  mature,  and  should  be  sown  at  midsummer. 


2348.  Aromatic  and  Sweet  Herbs. — Anise,  Brazil,  (sweet). 
Caraway,  Coriander,  *Fennel,  *Lavender,  Marygold,  Pot, 
Marjorum,  (sweet),  *Sage,  Summer  Savory,  *Winter  Savory, 
*Thyme,  *Mint,  ^Rosemary,  Dill. 


2349.  Those  marked  with  a  *  are  perennial,  and  when  once 
obtained,  may  be  preserved  for  years.     The  others  are  annual. 


480  MRS,  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 


FRUIT  TREES  AND  FRUIT. 

2350.  Fruits,  ia  a  ripe  and  perfect  state,  are  beneficial  to 
health,  if  not  eaten  to  excess. 


2351.  Stunted  trees  never  become  vigorous,  nor  when  too 
long  crowded  in  nurseries. 


2352.  In  Orafting,  25  well  placed  are  better  than  100  grafts 
placed  at  random,  and  ten  placed  injudiciously  will  change  the 
whole  top  of  a  tree  in  a  few  years,  when  200  grafts  may  be  so 
scattered  as  not  materially  to  change  the  top  of  the  tree  or  its 
fruit.     Graft  only  on  such  as  are  sound  and  vigorous. 

2353.  naggling  off  limbs  and  branches  and  leaving  stumps 
on  the  trees,  which  rot  oft'  and  let  the  water  into  the  trunk, 
soon  destroys  the  tree  ;  therefore,  always  cut  or  saw  off  smooth, 
when  the  wound  will  heal  and  the  bark  grow  over. 


2354.  Sound,  vigorous  trees,  and  no  other,  should  be  set 
out,  as  they  take  no  more  trouble  or  space  than  the  worthless 
ones. 


2355.  Budding  should  only  be  done  with  fresh  buds,  on 
very  small  stocks  of  vigorous  growth.  Begin  after  sap  starts, 
until  1st  June.  Later  will  do.  Make  incision  like  a  T  ; 
raise  the  corners  and  insert  the  bud  with  as  little  of  the  wood 
as  possible,  and  bandage,  not  too  tight,  for  three  weeks. 


2356.  Scions  may  be  cut  in  February  or  March,  before  or 
at  the  time  the  buds  begin  to  swell ;  or  take  grafts  size  of  a 
pipe-stem,  from  bearing  branches,  not  from  side  shoots  nor 
the  rank  growth  of  the  top.  Put  in  earth  one-third  their 
length,  keep  from  frost,  and  occasionally  sprinkle,  to  prevent 
shriveling,  but  not  so  wet  as  to  sprout  them. 


235 Y.  Composition. — Resin  8  oz.,  beeswax,  3  oz.;  melt  up 
with  lard,  and  work  it  like  shoemaker^s  wax  ;  for  wounds  made 
in  pruning  or  grafting. 

2358.  Split  the  stock,  drive  in  a  wedge  six  or  eight  inches  long, 


FRUIT  TREES  AND  FRUIT 


481 


open  the  split  so  as  to  admit  the  graft  freely  ;  sharpen  end  of 
graft  and  insert,  matching  the  wood  of  graft  and  wood  of  the 
stock ;  remove  the  wedge  carefully,  and  cover  smooth  over 
with  composition,  tight,  to  exclude  air,  and  the  sap  will  force 
its  way  to  the  graft. 

2359.  Seed. — Select  from  healthy  trees,  sound,  ripe  and  fair 
fruit,  and  place  in  sand,  in  a  cellar  or  other  cool,  damp  place, 
until  time  to  plant.  If  kept  too  dry,  they  seldom  vegetate. 
Let  the  soil  be  good,  well  worked,  not  too  wet ;  cover  up  and 
press  the  ground  moderately  over.  Plant  in  Fall,  before  the 
ground  is  frozen,  or  in  Spring,  soon  as  the  ground  can  be 
worked. 


2360.  Soil — Low,  wet  or  marshy  ground  is  not  suitable. 
Soil  appropriat'ie  for  crops  of  grain,  is  also  adapted  to  the  cul- 
tivation of  fruit  trees,  shrubs  or  vines.  Occasional  digging, 
mellowing  the  ground,  keeping  down  underbrush  and  weeds, 
and  manuring,  are  beneficial. 

2361.  Cleanliness  is  essential.  Destroy  all  caterpillars, 
noxious  worms  and  insects,  and  prune  off  all  affected  parts. 
Scrape  off -all  rough,  ragged  bark  and  moss,  and  wash  well 
with  soap-suds  or  cover  with  a  coat  of  limewash.  Remove 
all  suckers  from  the  roots,  side  branches  and  excrescences. 


2362.  Grubs,  which  occasion  disease,  may  be  prevented  by 
coating  the  roots  and  lower  trunk,  about  July  1,  with  tar, 
train  oil,  or  whitewash,  and  sprinkling  a  little  lime,  ashes,  or 
soap-suds,  on  the  ground  around  the  tree.  When  seriously 
affected,  dig  the  earth  from  the  roots  near  the  surface,  and 
search  thoroughly  in  the  bark  for  the  grub  ;  cleanse  off  the 
gum,  &c.,  wash  with  ley  or  soap-suds,  or  rub  dry  ashes  over 
them,  and  close  up  with  good  fresh  earth.  Doing  this  as  oc- 
casion requires,  will  ensure  health  and  vigor. 


2363.  Slugs  and  Snails  are  great  enemies  to  every  kind  of 
garden-plant,  whether  flower  or  vegetable ;  they  wander  in  the 
night  to  feed,  and  return  at  daylight  to  their  haunts  ;  the 
shortest  and  surest  direction  is,  "  Rise  early,  catch  them,  and 
kill  them.''— (See  p.  281.) 
31 


482  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

2364.  Another  way. — Lay  cabbage  leaves  about  the  ground, 
jspecially  on  the  beds  which  they  frequent.  Every  morning 
examine  these  leaves,  and  you  will  find  a  great  many  taking 
refup^e  beneath. 


2365.  Caterpillars  and  Aphides. — A  garden  syringe  or 
engine,  with  a  cap  on  the  pipe  full  of  very  minute  holes,  will 
wash  away  these  disagreeable  visitors  very  quickly.  You 
must  bring  the  pipe  close  to  the  plant,  and  pump  bard,  so  as 
to  have  considerable  force  on,  and  the  plant,  however  badly 
infested,  will  soon  be  cleared  without  receiving  any  injury. — 
(See  p.  2n.) 


2366.  Bake  the  Earth. — Every  time  that  you  use  the 
syringe  or  garden-engine,  you  must  immediately  rake  the  earth 
under  the  trees,  and  kill  the  insects  you  have  dislodged,  or 
many  will  recover  and  climb  up  the  stems  of  the^  plants. 


23 6T.  Qruhs  on  Orchard  Trees. — Make  a  bonfire  with  dry 
sticks  and  weeds  on  the  windward  side  of  the  orchard,  so  that 
the  smoke  may  blow  among  the  trees ;  you  will  destroy  thou- 
sands ;  for  the  grubs  have  such  an  objection  to  smoke,  that 
very  little  of  it  makes  them  roll  themselves  up  and  fall  off; 
they  must  be  swept  up  afterward. 


2368.  Wasps  destroy  a  good  deal  of  fruit,  but  every  pair 
of  wasps  killed  in  spring  saves  the  trouble  and  annoyance  of 
a  swarm  in  autumn. 


2369.  Butterflies  and  Moths,  however  pretty,  are  the  worst 
enemies  one  can  have  in  a  garden  ;  a  single  insect  of  this  kind 
may  deposit  eggs  enough  to  overrun  a  tree  with  caterpillars, 
therefore  they  should  be  destroyed  at  any  cost  of  trouble. 


23^0.  The  only  moth  that  you  must  spare,  is  the  common 
black  and  red  one  ;  the  grubs  of  this  feed  exclusively  on  groun- 
sel,  and  are  therefore  a  valuable  ally  of  the  gardener. 


23T1.  Earwigs  are  very  destructive  insects  ;  their  favorite 
food  is  the  petals  of  roses,  pinks,  dahlias,  and  other  flowers. 

23T2.    To  kill  Earwigs. — They  may  be  caught  by  driving 


FRXriT   TREES   AND   FRUIT.  483 

ptakes  into  the  ground,  and  placing  on  each  an  inverted  flower- 
pot ;-the  earwigs  will  climb  up  and  take  refuge  under  it,  when 
they  may  be  taken  out  and  killed. — (See  p.  219.) 

23 Y 3.  Or  very  deep  holes  may  be  made  in  the  ground  with  a 
crowbar,  into  these  they  will  fall,  and  may  be  destroyed  by 
boiling  water. 


2314.  Toads  are  among  the  best  friends  the  gardener  has  ; 
for  they  live  almost  exclusively  on  the  most  destructive  kinds 
of  vermin. 


2315.  The  Eose  Slug. — A  new  and  sure  mode  to  destroy 
these  insects,  either  when  as  a  fly  laying  its  eggs,  or  as  a  slug, 
is  the  foUowins: : — 


2316.  Whale  Oil  Soap,  dissolved  at  the  rate  of  two  pounds 
to  fifteen  gallons  of  water. 

2311.  Mode  of  Preparation, — Take  whatever  quantity  of 
soap  you  wish  to  prepare,  and  dissolve  it  in  boiling  water, 
about  one  quart  to  a  pound  ;  in  this  way  strain  it  through  a 
fine  wire  or  hair  sieve,  which  takes  out  the  dirt,  prevents  its 
stopping  the  valves  of  the  engine,  or  the  nose  of  the  syringe ; 
then  add  cold  water  to  make  it  the  proper  strength. 


2318.  How  to  use  it. — Apply  it  to  the  rose-bush  with  a  hand 
engine  or  syringe,  with  as  much  force  as  practicable,  and  be 
sure  that  every  part  of  the  .leaves  is  well  saturated  with  the 
liquid.  What  falls  to  the  ground  in  application,  will  do  good 
in  destroying  the  worms  and  enriching  the  soil,  and  from  its 
trifling  cost,  it  can  be  used  with  profusion. 


2319.  The  cost.— A  hogshead  of  136  gallons  costs  forty- 
five  cents — not  quite  four  mills  per  gallon.  Early  in  the  morn- 
ing, or  in  the  evening,  is  the  proper  time  to  apply  it  to  the 
plants. 


2380.  Mildew  on  the  Gooseberry,  Peach,  Grape-vine,  &c., 
is  checked  and  entirely  destroyed  by  a  weak  dressing  of  the 
solution. 


484  MRS.    HALE^S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2381.  The  Canker  Worm. — Laying  soap  oil  on  the  trunk 
and  branches  of  the  tree,  at  the  consistency  of  thick  paint,  de- 
stro5"s  the  brown,  scaly  insect  on  the  bark,  and  gives  the 
tree  a  smooth,  glossy,  and  healthy  appearance. 


2382.  To  free  Plants  from  Leaf- Lice. —Mix  one  ounce  of 
flowers  of  sulphur  with  one  bushel  of  sawdust ;  scatter  this 
over  the  plants  infected  with  these  insects,  and  they  will  soon 
be  freed,  though  a  second  application  may  possibly  be  neces- 
sary. 


2383.  Keeping  Fruits. — The  three  best  of  eight  different 
modes  fairly  tried,  are,  1,  covering  in  pure  dry  sand  ;  2,  in  dry 
fern  ;  3,  in  a  deal  box  buried  in  the  earth.  In  all  cases  to  be 
kept  cool. 


2384.  Sunflower  yielAs  140  bushels  per  acre,  and  each 
bushel  one  gallon  of  good  oil.  Its  leaves  furnish  provender  ; 
its  seeds,  food  for  poultry  and  hogs.     It  thrives  on  poor  soils. 


2385.  To  prepare  a  cheap  Hortus  Siccus. — All  the  small 
plants  should  be  expanded  under  water,  in  a  plate,  on  a  piece 
of  writing-paper.  In  this  state  they  will  assume  their  natural 
form  and  position.  Then  withdraw  the  paper  with  the  plant 
gently  from  the  water,  and  place  them  between  sheets  of  blot- 
ting-paper, and  press  them  with  a  book  or  flat  board.  When 
dry,  it  may  be  placed  on  writing-paper. 


PAET  X. 
PERSONAL  MATTERS. 

Dress  of  Ladies — Dress  of  Gentlemen — Manners — Etiquette 
of  Society — Dinner  Parties — Courtship — Marriage — The 
Ceremony — After  Marriage — Social  Intercourse — '*  Our 
House f^^  etc. 

2386.  Importance  of  Dress. — Attention  to  personal  appear- 
ance is  a  human  duty  as  well  as  a  required  observance  in  civil- 
ized society. 


DRESS   OF   LADIES.  485 

238T.  The  following  rules  will  be  found  useful  in  guiding 
the  judgment  and  taste  of  those  who  desire  to  dress  well. 


DRESS  OF  LADIES. 

2388.  A  young  lady  should  always  be  neatly  attired  A 
fresh-looking  and  well-fitting  dress  is  more  important  than 
rich  materials  or  showy  ornaments. 


2389.  Never  furbish  up  old  finery,  if  you  wish  to  appear 
really  the  lady.  A  clean,  soft,  white  muslin  gown  is  far  more 
genteel  than  a  tarnished  brocade. 

2390.  Colors  and  Complexions. — The  great  art,  as  regards 
colors  of  dress,  is  to  enhance  the  tints  of  the  complexion,  care 
being  taken  to  let  the  flesh  appear  of  a  healthy  natural  hue, 
and  to  avoid  wearing  those  colors  which  heighten  or  destroy 
either  the  red,  yellow,  or  white,  in  the  natural  flesh  tints. 


2391.  Primitive  Colors, — Out  of  three  primitive  colors, 
red,  blue,  and  yellow,  there  are  endless  mixtures  and  varia- 
tions, and  some  of  these  can  skillfully  be  adapted  to  any  com- 
plexion ;  but  to  do  so,  these  two  rules  must  be  observed  :  the 
rule  of  Harmony  and  of  judicious  Contrast. 


2392.  Decided  Colors,  or  colors  without  mixture,  are  very 
unbecoming.  A  lady  all  blue  in  dress  would  be  more  dis- 
agreeable than  a  real  bleu,     . 

2393.  Eed,  and  its  dark  variations,  may  be  worn  by  dark 
persons,  and  will  harmonize  with  their  complexion. 

2394.  Crimson  and  brillliant  red  are  vulgar  and  unsuitable, 
but  purple  and  dark  maroon,  worn  by  brunettes,  and  persons 
of  a  dark  complexion,  are  both  becoming  and  genteel,  either 
in  evening  or  winter  dresses. 

2395.  Blue  is  a  becoming  color  to  fair  faces  and  blue  eyes. 
It  also  looks  well  worn  by  brunettes,  when  the  wearer  is 
youthful. 


486  MRS.  bale's  receipts   for  tee  million. 

2396.  Light  blue  is  a  beautiful  color  for  spring  dresses ; 
dark  blues  look  better  in  the  autumn  and  winter. 


2391.  Red  Colors. — Light  red  and  pink,  approaching  flesh 
tints,  are  becoming  both  to  dark  and  to  fair ;  to  the  former 
especially,  because  they,  by  contrast,  set  off  the  complexion. 

2398.  Fair  persons  venturing  upon  such  dresses  or  trim- 
mings by  daylight,  should  have  clear  and  excellent  complexions, 
or  the  brightness  of  the  color,  from  a  similarity  of  tint,  will 
make  their  faces  appear  dirty  and  clouded. 

2399.  Chocolate  colors,  and  warm  browns  partaking  of  red, 
may  be  worn  by  either  fair  or  dark  persons,  provided  they  be 
not  too  pale,  in  which  case  the  contrast  will  render  the  face 
chalky  or  death-like.  

2400.  Tellow  in  dress,  as  well  as  orange,  is  also  more  be- 
coming to  dark  than  to  fair  persons. 

2401.  Primrose  is  becoming  to  fair  persons.  The  trim- 
mings of  this  color,  the  flowers  and  ribbons,  should  be  violet, 
such  contrast  being  agreeable  to  art  and  nature. 


2402.  Maize  color  is  becoming  to  all  complexions,  especially 
to  those  which  are  brilliant. 


2403.  Grain  is  more  becoming  to  fair  than  to  dark  per- 
sons, because  in  the  fair  complexion,  brilliancy  and  depth  of 
color  are  more  frequently  found. 

2404.  Pale  green  should  never  be  worn  by  the  dark,  it  ren- 
dering them  sickly  and  cadaverous  in  look.  To  those  of  a  fair 
and  brilliant  complexion  it  is  most  becoming. 


2405.  Trimmings. — For  trimmings  and  flowers  ladies  can- 
not do  better  than  to  study  nature,  there  being  in  the  leaves 
of  flowers  every  imaginable  tint  of  green,  whilst  the  flowers 
themselves  are  various  in  their  hue. 


2406.  Artificials  should  be  few,  and  perfectly  arranged, 
load  of  flowers  is  a  burden,  not  a  beauty 


DBB«S    OF    LADIES.  48^ 

240^.  The  most  elegant  dresses  are  black  or  white. 


2408.  A  vulgar  girl  wears  bright  and  glaring  colors,  fan- 
tastically made,  a  large  flaring,  red,  yellow,  or  sky-blue  hat, 
covered  with  a  rainbow  of  ribbons,  and  all  the  rings  and  trin- 
kets she  can  load  upon  her. 


2409.  In  any  assemblage,  the  most  plainly-dressed  woman 
is  sure  to  be  the  most  lady-like  and  attractive.  Neatness  is 
better  than  richness,  and  plainness  better  than  display. 


2410.  It  is  a  general  rule,  applicable  to  both  sexes,  that 
persons  are  the  best  dressed  when  you  cannot  remember  how 
they  were  dressed.  Avoid  every  thing  out  of  the  way,  uncom- 
mon, or  grotesque. 

» 

2411.  Single  ladies  dress  less  in  fashionable  society  than 
married  ones  ;  and  all  more  plainly  and  substantially  for  walk- 
ing or  traveling,  than  on  other  occasions. 


2412.  Common  modesty  should  prevent  indecent  exposure 
of  the  shoulders  and  bosom. 


2413.  Tight  Lacing. — No  woman  who  laces  tight  can  have 
good  shoulders,  a  straight  spine,  good  lungs,  sweet  breath,  or 
is  tit  to  be  a  wife  and  mother. 


2414.  Can  it  be  a  pleasant  sight  to  behold  a  woman  cut  iu 
two  in  the  middle,  as  it  were,  like  a  wasp  ?  On  the  contrary, 
it  is  as  shocking  to  the  eye  as  it  is  painful  to  the  imagination. 


2415.  Every  thing  that  confines  and  lays  nature  under  a 
restraint  is  an  instance  of  bad  taste.  This  is  as  true  in  regard 
to  the  ornaments  of  the  body  as  to  the  embellishments  of  the 
mind.  

2416.  Life,  health,  reason,  and  convenience,  ought  to  be 
taken  first  into  consideration. 


241*7.  Gracefulness  cannot  subsist  without  ease  ;  delicacy  is 
not  debility  ;  nor  must  a  woman  be  sick  in  order  to  please. 


488  Mi^s.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

2418.  The  distinction  of  the  sexes,  notwithstanding  that  it 
is  so  prominent  and  marked,  still  refquires  a  distinctive  dress. 
This  has  generally,  by  all  nations,  civilized  or  savage,  been 
conceded.  

2419.  This  difference  has  been  so  permanent,  that  any  at- 
tempt to  lessen  it — and  there  have  been  many — has  failed, 
and  must  fail  whenever  attempted. 


2420.  Eohes. — The  outer  garment  of  woman  is,  and  has 
been  for  centuries,  the  robe  or  gown,  and  upon  the  proper 
choice,  make,  and  disposition  of  this,  and  its  concomitants, 
depends  the  elegance  or  inelegance  of  the  wearer. 


2421.  The  gown  should  fall  gracefully  from  the  hips,^s  free 
as  possible  from  the  odious ''bustle"  or*' hoop."  It  should 
fall  in  long  full  folds,  and  expand  gradually  to  the  feet,  which 
it  should  touch,  but  not  entirely  cover. 


2422.  Flounces  should  only  be  worn  by  those  of  a  tall, 
graceful  figure,  and  then  they  should  be  made  of  a  light  mate- 
rial, gauze,  muslin,  or  of  stuff  akin  to  it,  so  that  they  fall  in 
gracefully  with  the  outline  of  the  dress.  When  made  of  any 
rich  stuff,'  which  stands  out  stiffly,  they  break  the  graceful  flow 
of  the  dress.  

2423.  Flounces,  by  marking  the  height,  at  regular  intervals, 
take  away  from  it,  and  make  a  short  figure  look  shorter.  For 
this  reason,  short  persons  should  not  wear  stripes  running  in 
parallel  rings  round  the  dress.  Perpendicular  stripes  upon  a 
dress  make  the  wearer  look  taller,  like  the  flutes  in  a  com- 
posite.   

2424.  The  rules  which  we  have  given  for  the  color  of  the 
dress,  must  of  course  apply  to  the  covering  for  the  head  ;  the 
colors  must,  to  look  well,  contrast  or  harmonize  with  the  com- 
plexion. - 

24^.  Texture,  material,  and  pattern,  should  suit,  not  only 
the  taste,  but  also  the  purse.  There  are  few  greater  evils  in 
this  country  than  an  inordinate  passion  for  dress. 


DRESS     OF     LADIES.  489 

2426.  No  one  looks  so  well  dressed  as  those  who  are 
dressed  properly,  neatly,  and  whose  attire  sets  them  at  their 
ease.  A  lady  who  is  so  over-dressed  as  to  be  constantly 
afraid  of  spoiling  her  gown,  can  never  be  graceful,  since  she 
cannot  be  at  her  ease. 


242T.  The  hair  should  always  be  neatly  brushed  and  ar- 
ranged. 

2428.  Binglets  make  round  faces  look  longer,  and  more 
oval ;  plain  bands  make  the  face  which  is  too  long,  lose  part 
of  that  length.  This  should  be  studied.  It  is  manifestly  ab- 
surd torender  oneself  hideous  merely  to  follow  the  fashion. 

2429.  The  dress  of  the  foot  is  important  both  for  beauty 
and  health. 


2430.  Thus,  a  thin  shoe  in  winter  would  be  vulgar,  because 
useless  and  dangerous  to  the  wearer's  health,  and  a  thick  boot 
in  summer  would  be  gauche  and  vulgar. 


2431.  Boots  and  shoes  should   be  well,  nay,  scientifically 
made.     The  foot  should  be  fitted  \^ell,  but  not  compressed. 


2432.  Modern  boots  and  shoes  are  therefore  often  made 
narrow,  just  where  they  should  be  wide ;  and  the  foot,  instead 
of  being  beautiful  in  shape,  and  graceful  in  its  action,  becomes 
long,  narrow,  distorted,  and  ungraceful  when  used. 

2433.  Gloves  must  be  fresh  and  well-fitting  to  make  the 
dress  perfect. 


2434.  Ladhes  dresses  should  be  chosen  so  as  to  produce  an 
agreeable  harmony. 


^435.  Never  put  on  a  dark-colored  bonnet  with  a  light 
spring  costume. 


2436.  Avoid  uniting  colors  which  will  suggest  an  epigram ; 
such  as  a  straw-colored  dress  with  a  green  bonnet. 


243T.  The  arrangement  of  the  hair  is  most  important. 


490  MR«.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2438.  Bands  are  becoming  to  faces  of  a  Grecian  caste. 


2439.  Ringlets  better  suit  lively  and  expressive  heads. 


2440.  Whatever  be  your  style  of  face,  avoid  an  excess  of 
lace,  and  let  flowers  be  few  and  choice. 


2441.  In  a  married  woman,  a  richer  style  of  ornament  is 
admissible 


2442.  Costly  elegance  for  the  married — for  the  young  girl, 
a  style  of  modest  simplicity. 

2443.  The  most  elegant  dress  loses  its  character  if  it  is  not 
worn  with  grace. 


2444.  Young  girls  have  often  an  air  of  constraint,  and  their 
dress  seems  to  partake  of  their  want -of  ease.- 


2445.  In  speaking  of  her  toilet,  a  w^oman  should  not  con- 
vey the  idea  that  ^her  whole  skill  consists  in  adjusting  tastefully 
some  trifling  ornaments. 


2446.  A  simple  st34e  of  dress  is  an  indication  of  modesty. 


244t.  Neatness. — The  hands  should  receive  special  atten- 
tion. They  are  the  outward  signs  of  general  cleanliness.  The 
same  may  be  said  of  the  face,  the  neck,  the  ears,  and  the 
teeth. 


2448.  The  cleanliness  of  the  system  generall}^,  and  of  bodily 
apparel,  pertains  to  Health,  and  will  be  treated  of  under  this 
head. 


2449.    The  Handkerchief.' — There    is  considerable   art   in 
using  this  accessory  of  dress  and  comfort. 


2450.  Avoid  extreme  patterns,  styles,  and  colors 


2451    Never  be  without  a  handkerchief. 


DRESS    OF   LADIES.  491 

2452.  Hold  it  freely  in  the  hand,  and  do  not  roll  it  into  a 
ball.  Hold  it  by  the  centre,  and  let  the  corners  form  a  fan-, 
like  expansion. 


2453.  Avoid  using  it  too  much.     With  some  x)ersons  the 
habit  becomes  troublesome  and  unpleasant. 


2454.  A  word  to  Toun^  Ladies. — If  you  have  blue  eyes,  you 
need  not  languish.  • 


2455.  If  black  eyes,  you  need  not  stare. 


2456.  If  you  have  pretty  feet,  there  is  no  occasion  to  wear 
short  petticoats. 


2457.  If  you  are  doubtful  as  to  that  point,  there  can  be  no 
harm  in  letting  them  be  long. 


2458.  If  you  have  good  teeth,  do  not  laugh  for  the  purpose 
of  showing  them. 


2459.  If  you  have  bad  ones,  do  not  laugh  less  than  the  oc- 
casion may  justify. 


2460.  If  you  have  pretty  hands  and  arms,  there  can  be  no 
objection  to  your  "playing  on  the  harp,  if  you  play  well. 


2461.  If  they- are  disposed  to  be  clumsy,  work  tapestry. 

2462.  If  you  have  a  bad  voice,  speak  in  a  rather  low  tone. 


2463.  If  you  have  the  finest  voice  in  the  world,  never  speak 
in  a  high  tone. 


2464.  If  you  dance  well,  dance  bat  seldom. 


2465.  If  you  dance  ill,  never  dance  at  all. 


2466.  If  you  sing  well,  make  no  previous  excuses. 

246T.  If  ^^ou  sing  indifferently,  hesitate  not  a  moment  when 


492  MRS.  bale's  keceipts   for  the  million. 

you  are  asked,  for  few  people  are  judges  of  singing,  but  every 
.one  is  sensible  of  a  desire  to  please. 


2468.  If  you  would  preserve  beauty,  rise  early. 


2469.  If  you  would  preserve  esteem,  be  gentle. 


24 to.  If  you  would  obtain  power,  be  condescending. 


2i1l.  If  you  would  live  happy,  endeavor  to  promote  the 
happiness  of  others. 


DRESS   OF   A   GENTLEMAN. 

24 Y 2.  Since  dress  is,  with  the  world,  the  outward  sign  of 
both  character  and  condition:  and  since  it  costs  no  more  to 
dress  well  than  ill,  and  is  not  very  troublesome,  every  one 
should  endeavor  to  do  the  best  that  his  circumstances  will 
allow. 


24Y3.  The  Shirt. — A  clean,  unrurapled  shirt,  coarse  or 
line,  cotton  or  linen,  as  you  can  afford,  is  of  the  first  import- 
ance. If  the  choice  is  between  a  fine  shirt  or  a  fine  coat,  have 
the  shirt  by  all  means. 


2414.  Fine  Linen,  and  a  good  hat,  gloves  and  boots  are 
evidences  of  the  highest  taste  in  dress. 


2415.  A  gentleman  walking  should  always  wear  gloves,  this 
being  one  of  the  characteristics  of  good  breeding. 


2416.  Upon  public  and  State  occasions,  officers  should  appear 
in  uniform. 


2418.  A  black  coat  and  trowsers  are  indispensable  for  a 
visit  of  ceremony,  an  entertainment,  or  a  ball. 


2419.  The  white  or  black  waistcoat  is  equally  proper  in 
these  cases. 


2480.  Yellow  or  white  gloves  are  worn  iu  the  ball-room. 


DRESS   OF   A   GENTLEMAN.  493 

2481.  A  neat  exterior,  equally  free  from  extravagance  and 
poverty,  almost  always  proclaims  a  right-minded  man. 


2482.  To  dress  appropriately,  and  with  good  taste,  is  to 
respect  yourself  and  others. 


2483.  Neatness. — A  well-bred  man  may  be  ever  so  reduced 
in  his  wardrobe — his  clothes  may  be  coarse  and  threadbare, 
but  he  seldom  wears  a  coarse,  and  fiever  a  dirty  shirt. 


2484.  The  Boots. — Boots  are  now  men's  common  wear  on 
all  occasions,  varying  in  elegance  for  different  purposes.  They 
should  always  be  clean,  and  invariably  well  blackened  and 
polished.  

2485.  The  Hat. — Make  a  point  of  buying  a  good  hat.  One 
proper  fur  hat,  worth  four  or  five  dollars,  when  a  year  old,  looks 
more  respectable  than  a  silk -one  bought  yesterday. 


2486.  Of  the  trowsers  little  need  be  said.  When  full  at  the 
bottom  they  serve  to  hide  a  large  foot.  If  colored  trowsers 
are  worn,  those  patterns  should  be  chosen  which  conform  to  tho 
rules  of  taste.  Bars  running  across  the  legs  should  be  avoided, 
and  also  all  large  staring  patterns. 


248T.  The  Vest  allows  of  some  fancy,  but  beware  of  being 
too  fanciful.  A  black  satin  is  proper  for  any  person  or  any 
occasion.  Nothing  is  more  elegant  than  pure  white.  Some 
quiet  colors  may  be  worn  for  variety,  but  beware  of  every 
thing  staring  or  glaring,  in  materials  or  trimmings. 

2488.  Avoid  all  singularity  in  dress ;  never  wear  gaudy 
^vaistcoats,  out-of-the-way  hats,  or  coats  of  the  extreme  of 
**  sporting  fashion  :'*  such  things  are  positively  odious. 


2489.  We  may  add  a  few  general  maxims,  applied  to  both 
sexes. 

2490.  *'A11  affectation  in  dress,"  says  Chesterfield,  'implies 
a  flaw  in  the  understanding.''  One  should  therefore  avoid 
being  singular,  or  eccentric. 


49*  MRS.,  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

2491.  Never  dress  against  any  one.  Choose  those  garments 
which  suit  you,  and  look  well  upon  you,  perfectly  irrespective 
of  the  fact  that  a  lady  or-  gentleman  in  the  same  village  or 
street  may  excel  you.  

2492.  When  dressed  for  company,  strive  to  appear  as  easy 
and  natural  as  if  you  were  in  undress. 


2493.  Dress  according  to  your  age.  It  is  both  painful  and 
ridiculous  to  see  an  old  lady  dressed  as  a  belle  of  four-and- 
twenty ;  or  an  old  fellow,  old  enough  for  a  grandfather,  affect- 
ing the  costume  and  the  manners  of  a  beau. 


2494.  Young  men  should  be  well  dressed.  Not  foppishly, 
but  neatly  and  well.  An  untidy  person  at  five-and-twenty, 
degenerates,  very  frequentlv,  into  a  sloven  and  a  boor  at 
fifty.                                       

2495.  Be  not  too  negligent,  nor  too  studied,  in  your  attire. 


2496.  Let  your  behavior  and  conversation  suit  the  clothes 
you  wear,  so  that  those  who  know  you  may  feel  that,  after  all, 
dress  and  external  appearance  is  the  least  portion  of  a  lady 

or  GENTLE]VIAN. 


MANNERS. 

249Y.  It  is  sometimes  objected  to  books  upon  etiquette, 
that  they  cause  those  who  consult  them  to  act  with  mechanical 
restraint,  and  to  show  in  society  that  they  are  governed  by 
arbitrary  rules,  rather  than  by  an  intuitive  perception  of  what 
is  graceful  and  polite. 

2498.  This  objection  is  unsound,  because  it  supposes  that 
people  who  study  the  theory  of  etiquette,  do  not  also  exercise 
their  powers  of  observation  in  society,  and  obtain^  by  their  in- 
tercourse with  others,  that  freedom  and  ease  of  deportment, 
whic^h  society  alone  can  impart. 


2499.  Books  upon  etiquette  are  useful,  inasmuch  as  that 
they  expound  the  laws  of  polite  society.     Experience  alone, 


mXnners.  495 

however,  can  give  effect  to  the  precise  manner  In  which  those 
laws  are  required  to  be  observed. 

2500.  Whatever  objections  may  be  raised  to  the  teachings 
of  works  upon  etiquette,  there  can  be  no  sound  argument 
against  a  series  of  simple  and  brief  hints,  which  shall  operate 
as  precautions  against  mistakes  in  personal  conduct. 


2501.  Avoid  intermeddling  with  the  affairs  of  others.    This 
is  a  most  common  fault. 


2502.  A  number  of  people  seldom  meet  but  they  begin  dis- 
cussing the  affairs  of  some  one  who  is  absent.  This  is  not  only 
uncharitable  but  positively  unjust.  It  is  equivalent  to  trying 
a  cause  in  the  absence  of  the  person  implicated. 


*'2503.  Even  in  the  criminal  code,  a  prisoner  is  presumed  to 
be  innocent  until  he  is  found  guilty.  Society,  however,  is  less 
just,  and  passes  judgment  without  hearing  the  defense. 


2504.  Depend  upon  it,  as  a  certain  rule,  that  the  people  icho 
unite  with  you  in  discussing  the  affairs  of  others ^  will  proceed 
to  scandalize  you  the  moment  that  you  depart. 


2505.  Be  consistent  in  the  avowal  of  principles.  Do  not 
deny  to-day,  that  which  you  asserted  yesterday.  You  may 
fancy  that  you  gain  favor  by  subserviency ;  but  so  far  from 
gaining  favor,  you  lose  respect. 


2506.  Avoid  falsehood.     There  can  be  found  no    higher 
virtue  than  that  of  truth. 


250T.  Be  honest.     Not  only  because  ''honesty  is   the  best 
policy,"  but  because  it  is  a  duty  to  God  and  to  man. 


2508.  Avoid  idleness — it  is  the  parent  of  many  evils.  Can 
you  pray,  **  Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread,"  and  not  hear 
the  reply,  "  Do  thou  this  day  thy  daily  duty  ?" 


2509.  Avoid  telling  idle  tales,  which  is  like  firing  arrows  in 
the  dark ;  you  know  not  into  whose  heart  they  may  fall. 


496  MRS-  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2510.  Avoid  talking  about  yourself;  praising  your  own 
works  ;  and  proclaiming  your  own  deeds.  If  they  are  good, 
they  will  proclaim  themselves  ;  if  bad,  the  less  you  say  of 
them  the  better.  

2511.  Be  kind  in  little  thino-s. 


2512.  The  true  generosity  of  the  heart  is  more  displg-yed  by 
deeds  of  minor  kindness,  than  by  acts  which  may  partake  of 
ostentation.  

2513.  Reason  is  given  for  man's  guidance.  Passion  is  the 
tempest  by  which  reason  is  overthrown.  Under  the  effects  of 
passion,  man's  mind  becomes  disordered,  his  face  disfigured, 
his  body  deformed. 

2514.  A  moment's  passion  has  frequently  cut  off  a  life's 
friendship,  destroyed  a  life's  hope,  imbittered  a  life's  peace, 
and  brought  unending  sorrow  and  disgrace. 

2515.  Avoid  pride.  If  you  are  handsome,  God  made  you 
so  ;  if  you  are  learned,  some  one  instructed  you ;  if  you  are 
rich,  God  gave  you  w^hat  you  own. 

2516.  The  best  men  throughout  all  history,  have  been  the 
most  humble.  

2511.  Affectation  is  a  form  of  pride.  It  is,  in  fact,  pride 
made  ridiculous  and  contemptible.  Affectation  is  usually  the 
fault  of  weak  people.  

2518.  Avoid  swearing.  An  oath  is  but  the  wrath  of  a 
perturbed  spirit.  

2519.  It  is  mean,  A  man  of  high  moral  standing  would 
rather  treat  an  offense  with  contempt,  than  show  his  indigna- 
tion by  an  oath.  

2520.  It  is  vulgar :  altogether  too  low  for  a  decent  man. 


2521.   It  is  cowardly:  implying  a  fear  of  either  of  not  being 
believed  or  obeyed. 


MANNERS,  4:9*1 

2522.  It   is   ungentlemanly.     A   gentleman,  according   to 

Webster,  is  a  genteel  man — well-bred,  refined. 


2523.  It  is  indecent:  offensive  to  delicacy,  and  extremely 
unfit  for  human  ears. 


2524.  It  is  foolish.     *' Want  of  decency  is  want  of  sense." 


2525.  It  is  abusive — to  the  mind  which  conceives  the  oath, 
to  the  tongue  which  utters  it,  and  to  the  person  at  whom  it 
is  aimed. 


2526.  It  is  venomous,  showing  a  man's  heart  to  be  as  a 
nest  of  vipers  ;  and  every  time  he  swears,  one  of  them  starts 
out  from  his  head. 


2527.  It  is  contemptible — forfeiting  the  respect  of  all  the 
wise  and  good. 


2528.  It  is  wicked:  violating  the  Divine  law,  and  provok- 
ing the  displeasure  of  Him  who  will  not  hold  him  guiltless  who 
takes  his  name  in  vain. 


2529.  Be  a  gentleman.     Swear  not  at  all. 


2550.  Moderation,  decorum,  and  neatness,  distinguish  the 
gentleman  ;  he  is  at  all  times  affable,  diffident,  and  studious 
to  please.  Intelligent  and  polite,  his  behavior  is  pleasant 
and  graceful. 


2531.  Appear  only  to  be  a  gentleman,  and  its  shadow  will 
bring  upon  you  contempt;  be  a  gentleman,  and  its  honors  will 
remain  even  after  you  are  dead. 


2532.  The  foregoing  remarks  may  be  said  to  apply  to  the 
moral  conduct,  rather  than  to  the  details  of  personal  manners. 


2533.  Great  principles,  however,  suggest  minor  ones ;  and 
hence  from  the  principles  laid  down,  many  hints  upon  personal 
behavior  may  be  gathered. 


2534.  Be  hearty  in  your  salutations. 
32' 


498  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2535.  Be  true  in  your  professions. 


5^536.  Discreet  and  sincere  in  your  friendships. 


253t.  Like  to  listen  rather  than  to  talk. 


2538.  Behave,  even  in  the  presence  of  your  relations,  as 
though  you  felt  respect  to  be  due  to  them. 

2539.  In  society  never  forget  that  you  are  but  one  of  many. 

2540.  Visiting  a  friend,  conform  to  the  rules,  of  his  home. 


2541.  Lean  not  upon  his  tables,  nor  rub  your  feet  against 
his  chairs. 


2542.  Pry  not  into  letters  that  are  not  your  own. 


2543.  Pay  unmistakable  respect  to  ladies  everywhere. 


2544.  Beware  of  foppery  and  of  silly  flirtation. 


2545.  In  public  places,  be  not  pertinacious  of  your  rights. 


2546.  Find  pleasure  in  making  concessions. 

2547.  Speak  distinctly. 


2548.  Look  at  the  person  to  whom  you  speak. 

2549.  When  you  have  spoken,  give  him  an  opportunity  to 
reply. 


2550.  Avoid  drunkenness  as  you  would  a  curse  ;  and  modify 
all  appetites,  especially  those  that  are  acquired. 

2551.  Dress  well,  but  not  superfluously. 

2552.  Be  neither  like  a  sloven,  nor  like  a  stuflPed  model. 

2553.  Keep  away  all  uncleanly  appearances  from  the  per- 
son.    Let  the  nails,  the  teeth,  and  in  fact,  the  whole  system 


MANNERS.  499 

receive  salutary  rather  tJian  studied  care.    But  let  these  things 
receive  attention  at  the  toilet— not  elsewhere. 


2554.  Avoid  displaying  excess  of  jewelry.     Nothing  looks 
more  effeminate  upon  a  man. 


2555.  Every  one  of  these  suggestions  may  be  regarded  as 
the  centre  of  many  others,  which  the  earnest  mind  can  not 
fail  to  discover. 


2556.  Avoid  envy,  for  it  can  not  benefit   you,  nor  can  it 
injure  those  against  whom  it  is  cherished. 

2557.  Avoid  disputation,  for  the  mere  sake  of  argument. 


2558.  Be  sociable ;  avoid  reserve  in  society. 

2559.  Remember  that  the  social  elements,  like  the  air  we 
breathe,  are  purified  by  motion.  Thought  illumines  thought, 
and  smiles  win  smiles. 


2560.  Be  punctual.  One  minute  too  late  has  lost  many  a 
golden  opportunity.  Besides  which,  the  want  of  punctuality 
is  an  affront  offered  to  the  person  to  whom  your  presence  is 
due. 


2561.  Be  polite.     Politeness  is  the  poetry  of  conduct — and 
like  poetry  it  has  many  qualities. 


2562.  Let  not  your  politeness  be  too  florid,  but  of  that 
gentle  kind  which  indicates  refined  nature. 


2563.  It  is  true,  indeed,  that  we  should  not  dissemble  and 
flatter  in  company ;  but  a  man  may  be  very  agreeable,  strictly 
consistent  with  truth  and  sincerity,  by  a  prudent  silence  where 
he  can  not  concur,  and  a  pleasing  assent  where  he  can. 


2564.  Now  and  then  you  meet  with  a  person  so  exactly 
formed  to  please,  that  he  will  gain  upon  every  one  that  hears 
or  beholds  him  ;  this  disposition  is  not  merely  the  gift  of  na- 
ture, but  frequently  the  effect  of  much  knowledge  of  the  world, 
and  a  command  over  the  passions. 


500  MKS.  hale's  eeceipts  for  the  million. 

2565.  Ceremonies. — All  ceremonies  are  in  themselves  very 
sill}^  things  ;  but,  yet  a  man  of  the  world  should  know  them. 
They  are  the  outworks  of  manners  and  decency,  which  would 
be  too  often  broken  in  upon,  if  it  were  not  for  that  defense 
which  keeps  the  enemy  at  a  proper  distance. 


2566.  Therefore  always  treat  fools  and  coxcombs  with 
great  ceremony,  true  good-breeding  not  being  a  sufficient  bar- 
rier against  them. 

2567.  Agreeahleness. — The  true  art  of  being  agreeable  is 
to  appear  well-pleased  with  all  the  company,  and  rather  to 
seem  well  entertained  with  them  than  to  bring  entertainment 
to  them. 


2568.  Eschew  personalities  and  personal  adventures  ;  noth- 
ing is  more  tedious  than  one  who  is  addicted  to  talk  prodigiously 
about  himself. 


2569.  Never,  in  a  mixed  company,  speak  disrespectfully  of 
woman. 


25Y0.  Treat  your  parents  with  the  greatest  possible  respect. 
Restrain  yourself  even  from  smiling  at  their  foibles,  or  their 
weaknesses.  Obey  them,  even  should  you  yourself  be  of  ma- 
ture age. 


25T1.  To  restrain  your  desire  for  indulgences  is  not  only 
well  bred,  but  it  is  heroic  ;  much  good  results  from  it.  Watch 
well  the  little  sins,  and  you  will  escape  those  which  are  more 
gross.  This  applies,  not  only  to  morals,  but  to  the  minor 
morals — the  manners. 


2572.  A  badly-tempered  man,  and  be  who  has  no  command 
over  his  passions,  will  rarely  become  a  polished  gentleman. 


2573.  If  you  have  children,  be  careful  to  behave  well  before 
them.  Kemember  that  the  child  naturally  and  easily  imitates 
the  actions  of  his  parent,  be  they  good  or  evil. 


2574.  Any  thing  which  is  essentially  out  of  place  is  vulgar. 


RULES   OF   ETIQUETTE.  501 

Thus,  an  Over  familiarity  with  servants  is  vulgar,  because  it  is 
out  of  place,  and  can  only  lead  to  a  bad  result. 


RULES    OP    ETIQUETTE. 

2515.  In  walking  with  a  gentleman,  the  step  of  the  lady 
must  be  lengthened,  and  his  shortened,  to  prevent  the  hob- 
bling appearance  of  not  keeping  step. 

2516.  Of  course,  the  conversation  of  a  stranger,  beyond  ask- 
ing a  necessary  question,  must  be  considered  as  a  gross  insult, 
and  repelled  with  proper  spirit. 

2511.  Having  dressed  yourself,  pay  no  further  attention  to 
your  clothes.  Few  things  look  worse  than  a  continual  fussing 
with  your  attire. 

2518.  Never  scratch  your  head,  pick  your  teeth,  clean  your 
nails,  or  worse  than  all,  pick  your  nose  in  company;  all  these 
things  are  disgusting.  Spit  as  little  as  possible,  and  never 
upon  the  floor.  

2519.  Do  not  lounge  on  sofas,  nor  tip  back  your  chair,  nor 
elevate  your  feet.  •   ^ 

2580.  If  you  are  going  into -the  company  of  ladies,  beware 
of  onions,  spirits,  and  tobacco. 

2581.  If  you  can  sing  or  play,  do  so  at  once  when  requested, 
without  requiring  to  be  pressed,  or  make  a  fuss. 

2582.  On  the  other  hand,  let  your  performance  be  brief,  or, 
if  ever  so  good,  it  will  be  tiresome. 


2583.  When  a  lady  sits  down  to  the  pianoforte,  some  gen- 
tleman should  attend  her,  arrange  the  music-Btool,  and  turn 
over  the  leaves.  

2584.  Do  not  make  yourself  too  conspicuous  in  those  atten- 
tions.    The  lady,  not  the  gentleman,  is  the  performer. 


502  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million 

2585.  Never  tattle,  nor  repeat  in  one  society  any  scandal 
or  personal  matter  you  hear  in  another. 


2586.  Give  your  own  opinion  of  people,  if  you  please,  but 
never  repeat  that  of  others. 


2581.  Meeting  an  acquaintance  among  strangers  in  the 
street  or  a  coffee-house,  never  address  him  by  name.  It  is 
vulgar  and  annoying. 


2588.  It  is  not  considered  fashionable  to  introduce  two  per- 
sons who  accidentally  meet  in  your  parlor,  and  who  are  paying 
you  a  npiorning  visit. 


2589.  Never- introduce  in  the  street,  unless  the  third  person 
joins  and  walks  with  you.  You  may  make  an  exception  to 
this  rule  when  the  parties  are  mutually  desirous  of  knowing 
one  another.  

2590.  When  a  gentleman  is  presented  to  a  lady,  if  she  is  in 
her  own  house  and  desires  to  welcome  him,  she  may  shake 
hands  with  him  ;  but  on  any  other  occasion,  unless  the  gentle- 
man is  venerable,  or  the  bosom  friend  of  the  husband  or 
father,  this  practice  is  reprehensible. 

2591.  A  lady  is  at  liberty  either  to  take  another  lady  or  a 
gentleman  to  pay  a  morning  visit  to  a  friend,  without  asking 
permission  ;  but  she  should  never  allow  a  gentleman  the  same 
liberty.  

2592.  A  lady  who  is  invited  to  an  evening  assembly  may 
always  request  a  gentleman  who  has  nob  been  invited  by  the 
lady  of  the  house,  to  accompany  her. 


2593.  If  you  are  walking  with  one  lady,  do  not  stop  to  con- 
verse with  others  who  are  unknown  to  her,  as  she  must  neces- 
sarily feel  unpleasant  j  but,  if  with  a  gentleman,  you  may  do 
as  you  please.  

2594.  Visits  and  Presentations. — Friendship  calls  should  bo 
made  in  the  forenoon,  and  require  neatness,  without  costliness 
of  dress. 


EULES    OF    ETIQUETTE.  503 

2595.  Calls  to  give  invitations  to  dinner  parties,  or  balls, 
should  be  very  short,  and  should  be  paid  in  the  afternoon 


2596.  Visits  of  condolence  require  a  grave  style  of  dress. 

259T.  A  formal  visit  should  never  be  made  before  noon.  If 
a  second  visitor  is  announced,  it  will  be  proper  for  you  to 
retire,  unless  you  are  very  intimate,  both  with  the  host  and  the 
visitor  announced  ;  unless,  indeed,  the  host  expresses  a  wish 
for  you  to  remain. 


2598.  Visits  after  balls  or  parties  should  be  made  within  a 
month.  , 

2599.  In  the  latter,  it  is  customary  to  enclose  your  card  in 
an  envelope,  bearing  the  address  outside.  This  may  be  sent 
by  post,  if  you  reside  at  a  distance.  But,  in  the  neighbor- 
hood, it  is  polite  to  send  your  servant,  or  to  call.  In  the 
latter  case,  a  corner  should  be  turned  down. 


2600.  Scrape  your  shoes  and  use  the  mat. 

2601.  When  a  new  visitor  enters  a  drawing-room,  if  it  be  a 
gentleman,  the  ladies  bow  slightly ;  if  a  lady^  the  guests  rise. 


2602.  Hold  your  hat  in  your  hand,  unless  requested  to  place 
it  down.  Then  lay  it  beside  you. 


2603.  The  last  arrival  in  a  drawing-room  takes  a  seat  left 
vacant  near  the  mistress  of  the  house. 


2604.  A  lady  is  not  required  to  rise  on  receiving  a  gentle- 
man, nor  to  accompany  him  to  the  door. 


2605.  When  your  visitor  retires,  ring  the  bell  for  the  ser- 
vant. You  may  then  accompany  your  guest  as  far  toward  the 
door  as  the  circumstances  of  your  friendship  seem  to  demand. 

2606.  Request  the  servant,  during  the  visit  of  guests,  to  be 
ready  to  attend  to  the  door  the  moment  the  bell  rings. 


2601.  When  you  introduce  a  person  pronounce  the  name 


504  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

distinctly,  and  saj  whatever  you  can  to  make  the  introduc- 
tion agreeable.  Such  as  "an  old  and  valued  friend,"  a 
"  school-fellow  of  mine,"  ^*  an  old  acquaintance  of  our  family." 


.   2608.  Never  stare  about  you  in  a  room  as  if  you  were  tak- 


ing stock. 


2609.  The  gloves  should  not  be  removed  during  a  visit. 


2610.  Be  hearty  in  your  reception  of  guests.     And  where 
you  see  much  diffidence,  assist  the  stranger  to  throw  it  off. 


2611.  A  lady  does  not  put  her  address  on  her  visiting  card. 

2612.  In  all  your  associations,  keep  constantly  in  view  the 
adage,  *'too  much  freedom  breeds  contempt." 


2613.^  Never  be  guilty  of  practical  jokes ;  if  you  accustom 
yourself  to  them,  it  is  probable  you  will  become  so  habituated 
as  to  commit  them  upon  persons  who  will  not  allow  of  such 
liberties :  I  have  known  a  duel  to  arise  from  a  slap  on  the 
back.  

2614.  If  there  be  another  chair  in  the  room,  do  not  offer  a 
lady  that  from  which  you  have  just  risen. 


2615.  Always  suspect  the  advances  of  any  person  who  may 
wish  for  your  acquaintance,  and  who  has  had  no  introduction  : 
circumstances  may  qualify  this  remark,  but  as  a  general  prin- 
ciple, acquaintances  made  in  a  public  room  or  place  of  amuse- 
ment are  not  desirable. 


2616.  Never  converse  while  a  person  is  singing;  it  is  an 
insult  not  only  to  the  singer,  but  to  the  company. 


2611.  The  essential  part  of  good  breeding  is  the  practical 
desire  to  afford  pleasure,  and  to  avoid  giving  pain.  Any  man 
possessing  this  desire,  requires  only  opportunity  and  observa- 
tion to  make  him  a  gentlemail. 

2618.  Always  take  off  your  hat  when  handing  a  lady  to  her 
carriage,  or  the  box  of  a  theatre,  or  a  public  room. 


RULES    OF    ETiqUETTK,  505 

2619.  If,  ill  a  public  promenade,  you  pass  and  repass  per- 
sons of  your  acquaintance,  it  is  only  necessary  to  salute  them 
on  the  first  occasion.  

2620.  Do  not  affect  singularity  of  dress  by  wearing  any 
thing  that  is  so  conspicuous  as  to  demand  attention  ;  and 
particularly  avoid  what  I  believe  I  must  call  the  ruffian  style. 

2621.  Never  lose  your  temper  at  cards,  and  particularly 
avoid  the  exhibition  of  anxiety  or  vexation  at  want  of  success. 


2622*  If  you  are  playing  whist^  not  only  keep  your  tem- 
per, but  hold  your  tongue ;  any  intimation  to  your  partner  is 
decidedly  ungentlemanly. 

2623.  Let  presents  to  a  young  lady  be  characterized  by 
taste,  not  remarkable  for  intrinsic  value.  , 

2624.  Except  under  very  decided  circumstances,  it  is  both 
ungentlemanly  and  dangerous  to  cut  a  person  :  if  you  wish  to 
rid  yourself  of  any  one's  society,  a  cold  bow  in  the  street,  and 
particular  ceremony  in  the  circles  of  your  mutual  acquaintance, 
is  the  best  mode  of  conduct  to  adopt. 

2625.  Never  introduce  your  own  affairs  for-  the  amusement 
of  a  company  ;  it  shows  a  sad  want  of  mental  cultivation,  or 
excessive  weakness  of  intellect. 


2626.  Recollect,  also,  that  such  a  discussion  cannot  be  in- 
teresting to  others,  and  that  the  probability  is  that  the  most 
patient  listener  is  a  complete  gossip,  laying  the  foundation  for 
Bome  tale  to  make  you  appear  ridiculous. 


2621.  When  you  meet  a  gentleman  with  whom  you  are 
acquainted,  you  bow,  raising  your  hat  slightly  with  the  left 
hand,  which  leaves  your  .right  at  liberty  to  shake  hands  if  you 
stop. 


2628.  If  the  gentleman  is  ungloved,  you  must  take  off  yours, 
not  otherwise. 


2629.  Meeting  a  lady,  the  rule  is  that  she  should  make  the 


506  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

first  salute,  or  at  least  indicate  bj  her  manner  that  she  recog- 
nizes you. 


2630.  Your  bow  must  be  lower,  and  your  hat  carried  fur- 
ther from  your  head  :  but  you  never  offer  to  shake  hands  ;  that 
is  her  privilege. 


2631.  The  right,  being  the  post  of  honor,  is  given  to  supe- 
riors and  ladies,  except  in  the  street,  when  they  take  the  wall, 
as  furthest  from  danger  from  passing  carriages,  in  walking 
with  or  meeting  them-. 


2632.  In  walking  with  a  lady,  you  are  not  bound  to  recog- 
nize gentlemen  with  whom  she  is  not  acquainted,  nor  have 
they,  in  such  a  case,  any  right  to  salute,  much  less  to  speak  to 
you. 


2633.  Whenever  or  wherever  you  stand,  to  converse  with  a 
lady,  or  while  handing  her  into  or  out  of  a  carriage,  keep  your 
hat  in  your  hand. 


2634.  Should  her  shoe  become  unlaced,  or  her  dress  in  any 
manner  disordered,  fail  not  to  apprize  her  of  it,  respectfully, 
and  offer  your  assistance.  A  gentleman  may  hook  a  dress  or 
lace  a  shoe  with  perfect  propriety,  and  should  be  able  to  do 
so  gracefully. 


2635.  Whether  with  a  lady  or  gentleman,  a  street  talk 
should  be  a  short  one  ;  and  in  either  case,  when  you  have 
passed  the  customary  compliments,  if  you  wish  to  continue 
the  conversation,  you  must  say,  ''Permit  me  to  accompany 
you." 


2636.  Don't  sing,  hum,  whistle,  or  talk  to  yourself,  in  walk- 
ing. Endeavor,  besides  being  well  dressed,  to  have  a  calm 
good-natured  countenance.     A  scowl  always  begets  wrinkles. 


263Y.  It  is  best  not  to  smoke  at  all  in  public,  and  none  but 
a  ruffian  in  grain  will  inflict  upon  society  the  odor  of  a  bad 
cigar,  or  that  of  any  kind  on  ladies. 

2638.  Ladies  are  not  allowed,  upon  ordinary  occasions,  to 


DINNER   PARTIES.  50*7 

take  the  arm  of  any  one  but  a  relative  or  an  accepted  lover  in 
the  street,  and  in  the  day  time  ;  but  in  the  evening— in  the  fields, 
or  in  a  crowd,  wherever  she  may  need  protection — she  should 
not  refuse  it. 


2639.  The  lady  should  pass  ber  hand  over  the  gentleman's 
arm  merely,  but  should  not  walk  at  arm's  length  apart,  as 
country  girls  sometimes  do. 


DINNER  PARTIES. 

2640.  We  will  begin  with  the  invitation,  the  reply  to  which 
you  will  make  at  once,  for  obvious  reasons,  and  address  it  to 
the  mistress  of  the  house. 


2641.  If  you  accept,  arrive  at  the  house  very  punctually,  not 
too  late  nor  too  early,  both  are  inconvenient,  but  the  latter 
irreparable.  Get  there,  therefore,  a  little  before  the  time,  and 
w^ait  till  the  precise  moment  before  knocking. 

2642.  If  you  arrive  by  some  accident  a  great  deal  too  late, 
do  not  disturb  the  party  by  going  in  ;  send  your  card  and  an 
apology  from  some  neighboring  place. 

2643.  The  host,  if  attentive,  will  point  out  to  gentlemen  the 
ladies  whom  he  wishes  them  to  conduct  to  table — always  fol- 
low his  directions. 


2644.  If  either  at  dinner  or  at  supper  he  should  offer  you 
the  place  of  honor,  never  refuse  it.  To  do  so,  as  some  do,  is 
to  show  a  pretended  modesty  ;  it  keeps  the  rest  of  the  company 
standing,  and  is  vulgar  in  the  extreme. 


2645.  The  great  requisites  in  the  office  of  host  are  to  be  a 
good  carver  (if  they  carve  at  table),  a  calm  temper,  and  a  wish 
to  place  every  one  perfectly  at  his  ease. 


2646.  The  company  should  be  so  arranged  that  each  lady 
will  have  some  gentleman  at  her  side,  to  assist  her.  Of  course, 
it  is  every  gentleman's  duty,  first  of  all  to  see  that  ladies  near 
him  are  attended  to. 


508  MKs.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2641.  The  lady  of  the  house  sits  at  the  head  of  the  table, 
and  the  gentleman  opposite,  at  the  foot.  The  place  of  honor 
for  gentlemen,  is  on  each  side  of  the  mistress  of  the  house — for 
ladies,  on  each  side  of  the  master. 


2648.  When  napkins  are  provided,  they  are  at  once  care- 
fully unfolded,  and  laid  on  the  knees. 


2649.  Observe,  if.  grace  is  to  be  said,  and  keep  a  proper 
decorum.  If  soup  is  served,  take  a  piece  of  bread  in  the  left 
hand,  and  the  spoon  in  the  right,  and  sip  noiselessly  from  the 
side  of  the  spoon. 


2650.  Do  not  take  two  plates  of  the  same  kind  of  soup,  and 
never  tip  up  the  plate. 

2651.  When  regular  courses  are  served,  .the  next  dish  is 
fish.  If  silver  or  wide-pronged  forks  are  used,  eat  with  the 
fork  in  the  right  hand — the  knife  is  unnecessary. 


2652.  If  dishes  are  carved  by  the  servants,  they  must  be 
taken  to  a  sideboard  from  the  proper  position  on  the  table, 
as  they  are  required. 


2653.  Take  whatever  is  given  you  if  you  intend  to  eat  it; 
do  not  offer  it  to  your  neighbor,  and  begin  at  once  to  eat. 
The  stiff  formality  of  waiting  till,  as  it  were,  all  have  a  fair 
start,  is  vulgar  in  the  extreme. 


2654.  Attend  to  the  wants  of  the  lady  who  sits  next  to  you, 
but  do  not  watch  her  plate  or  use  any  offensive  vulgarism. 


2655.  The  host  should  never  recommend  or  eulogize  any 
particular  dish  ;  his  guests  will  take  it  for  granted  that  any 
thing  found  at  his  table  is  excellent. 


2656.  The  host  must  not  relinquisl^  his  knife  or  fork  till  his 
guests  have  finished. 


265T.  It  is  not  usual  to  drink  wine  with  any  of  the  company 
present ;  if  you,  however,  find  it  the  custom  where  you  dine. 


DINNER  PARTIES.  509 

adopt  it  at  once.     Champagne  is  drunk  between  the  meats  and 

the  dessert.  

2658.  Never  address  a  servant,  nor  ever  speak  of  one  at 
dinner.  

2659.  Should  a  gentleman  send  you  v^ine  at  a;  public  table, 
or  ask  the  honor  of  a  glass  with  you,  observe  when  he  raises 
his  glass,  and  do  the  same,  bowing,  whether  you  drink  or  not. 


2660.  As  a  general  rule,  in  helping  any  one  at  table,  never 
use  a  knife  when  you  can  use  a  spoon. 


2661.  If  at  dinner  you  are  requested  to  help  any  one  to 
sauce,  do  not  pour  it  over  the  meat  or  vegetables,  but  on  one 
side.  

2662.  If  you  should  have  to  carve  and  help  a  joint,  do  not 
load  a  person's  plate — it  is  vulgar  ;  also  in  serving  soup,  one 
ladleful  to  each  plate  is  sufficient. 


2663.  Eat  peas  with  a  dessert  spoon,  and  curry  also.  Tarts 
and  puddings  are  to  be  eaten  with  a  spoon. 

%         

2664.  After  the  dinner,  a  rose-water  dish  is  passed  round  ; 
dip  a  corner  of  your  napkin  in  it,  and  refresh  your  mouth  and 
hands.     Finger-glasses  are  not  in  vogue. 


2665.  Be  careful  not  to  drink  too  much  w^ine  ;  and  join  the 
ladies  in  the  drawing-room  as  quickly  as  possible. 


2666.  Ladies,  although  allowed  a  great  latitude  of  dress  at 
dinner-parties,  should  never  be  extravagantly  fine. 


BALLS  AND  EVENING  PARTIES. 

2667.  An  invitation  to  a  ball  should  be  given  at  least  a  week 
beforehand.  

2668.  Upon  entering,  first  address  the  lady  of  the  house ; 
and  after  her,  the  nearest  acquaintances  you  may  recognize  in 
the  house. 


610  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

2669.  If  you  introduce  a  friend,  make  him  acquainted  with 
the  names  of  the  chief  persons  present.  But  first  present  him 
to  the  lady  of  the  house,  and  to  the  host. 


2610.  Appear  in  full  dress. 


26*71.  Always  wear  gloves. 


26T2.  Do  not  wear  rings  on  the  outside  of  your  gloves. 


26*13.  Avoid  an  excess  of  jewelry. 


26*14.  Do  not  select  the  same  partner  frequently. 


2675.  Distribute  your  attention  as  much  as  possible. 
26T6.  Pay  respectful  attention  to  elderly  persons. 


26*1*7.  Be  cordial  when  serving  refreshments,  but  not  im- 
portunate.   

26*78.  If  there  are  more  dancers  than  the  room  will  accom- 
modate, do  not  join  in  every  dance. 


26*79.  In  leaving  a  large  party,  it  is  unnecessary  to  bid  fare- 
well,* and  improper  to  do  so  before  the  guests. 


2680.  A  Paris  card  of  invitation  to  an  evening  party  usually 
implies  that  you  are  invited  for  the  season. 


2681.  The  host  and  hostess  should  look  after  their  guests, 
and  not  confine  their  attentions.  They  should,  in  fact,  assist 
those  chiefly  who  are  the  least  known  in  the  room. 


2682.  Avoid  political  and  religious  discussions.     If   you 
have  a  **  hobby,"  keep  it  to  yourself. 


2683.  After  dancing,  conduct  your  partner  to  a  seat. 


2684.  Resign  her  as  soon  as  her  next  partner  advances. 


COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE.  511 


COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 

2685.  No  union  should  be  undertaken  until  both  of  the 
contracting  parties  are  fully  acquainted  with  each  other's  dis- 
position. 

2686.  If  either  man  or  woman  are  subject  to  indulge  in  any 
foible,  or  known  vice,  such  as  irritability,  idleness,  love  of 
scandal,  drunkenness,  or  w^orse,  he  or  she  should  not  marry 
till  that  vice  is  conquered. 


2687,  When  before  union  there  is  an  unreasonable,  absurd, 
and  romantic  degree  of  affection,  that  marriage  will  probably 
be  an  unhappy  one. 


2688.  When  a  woman  knows  a  man  to  be  addicted  to  any 
known  self-indulgence,  or  to  that  which  the  world  too  fre- 
quently calls  pleasure,  she  should  discountenance  him. 


2689.  Position  in  society  is  freqi;iently  reckoned  as  more 
than  an  equivalent  for  riclies.  Yet  neither  a  wise  man  nor 
woman  will  seek  to  marry  greatly  out  of  their  sphere  of  life. 


2690.  When  you  are  going  to  marry,  do  not  expect  more 
from  life  than  life  will  afford. 


2691.  For    acquirements,  look  more  to  solid  knowledge, 
either  in  wife  or  husband,  than  to  accomplishments. 


2692.  When  a  young  man  admires  a  lady,  and  thinks  her 
society  necessary  to  his  happiness,  it  is  proper,  before  com- 
mitting himself,  or  inducing  the  object  of  his  admiration  to  do 
so,  to  apply  to  her  parents  or  guardians  for  permission  to 
address  her ;  this  is  a  becoming  mark  of  respect,  and  the  cir- 
cumstances must  be  very  peculiar,  which  would  justify  a  devi- 
ation from  this  course. 


2693.  Young  men  frequently  amuse  themselves  by  playing 
with  the  feelings  of  young  women.  They  visit  them  often, 
they  walk  with  them,  they  pay  them  divers  attentions,  and. 
after  giving  them  an  idea  that  they  are  attached  to  them,  they 


612  MRS.    HALE*B    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

either  leave  them,  or,  what  is  worse,  never  come  to  an  explan- 
ation of  their  sentiments.  This  is  to  act  the  character  of  a 
*'  dangler,''  a  character  truly  dastardly  and  infamous. 


2694.  In  case  of  rejection,  the  gentleman  should  at  once, 
unless  under  peculiar  circumstances,  abstain  from  his  suit. 
Unless  he  does  so,  his  conduct  becomes  persecuting. 


2695.  Ladies   should   never,  by   the   slightest  familiarity, 
encourage  any  one  whom  they  would  object  to  marry. 


2696.  Rejection  should  be  courteous,  definite,  and  decisive ; 
but  couched  in  a  manner  that,  whilst  it  deprives  the  suitor  of 
hope,  inflicts  no  pain. 

269t.  Engaged  people  sKould  avoid  compliments  in  com- 
pany.   

2698.  A  proposal  being  made,  the  lady  should  first  signify 
her  own  willingness,  and  then  refer  her  suitor  to  her  parents. 


2699.  In  public,  or  in  company,  the  conduct  of  lovers  should 
be  guarded.  Avoid  all  show  of  extreme  preference.  Neither 
caress  nor  chide  before  others. 

2 too.  Letters,  trinkets,  and  presents,  when  engagements 
are  broken  off,  are  always  returned  by  both  parties. 

2101.  Long  engagements  are  dangerous. 

2t02.  If  a  gentleman  does  not  intend  to  marry  a  lady,  he 
has  no  right  to  make  his  attentions  peculiar.  He  should  con- 
sider her  true  interest,  and  he  would  not  trifle  with  her  affec- 
tions. 


2103.  Lovers  Telegraph. — If  a  gentleman  wants  a  wife,  he 
wears  a  ring  on  the  first  finger  of  the  left  band ;  if  he  is 
^ngaged,  he  wears  it  on  the  second  finger ;  if  married,  on  the 
ird  ;  and  on  the  fourthj  if  he  never  intends  to  be  married. 


2104.  When  a  lady  is  not  engaged,  she  wears  a  hoop  or 
diamond  on  her  first  finger;  if  engaged,  on  the  second;  if 


COUETSHIP    AND    MAERIAGE.  513 

married,  on  the  third;  and  on  the/owr^^,  if  she  intends  to  die 
a  maid. 

2105.  When  a  gentleman  presents  a  fan,  flower,  or  trinket, 
to  a  lady  with  the  left  hand,  this  on  his  part,  is  an  overture 
of  regard;  should  she  receive  it  with  the  left  hand,  it  is 
considered  as  an  acceptance  of  his  esteem  ;  but  if  with  the 
right  hand,  it  is  a  refusal  of  the  offer. 


2^106.  Thus,  by  a  few  simple  tokens,  explained  by  rule,  the 
passion  of  love  is  expressed  :  and,  through  the  medium  of  the 
telegraph,  the  most  timid  and  diffident  man  may,  without 
difficulty,  communicate  his  sentiments  of  regard  to  a  lady,  and 
in  case  his  offer  should  be  refused,  avoid  experiencing  the 
mortification  of  an  explicit  refusal. 


2Y0T.  Marriage  Ceremony. — Weddings  are  everywhere 
accompanied  with  some  degree  of  ceremony,  and  are  usually 
considered  as  occasions  of  festivity. 


2108.  The  preliminaries  having  been  arranged  by  the  con- 
tracting parties,  and  the  lady  having  named  the  happy  day, 
preparations  are  made  for  the  wedding. 

2109.  Those  who  belong  to  the  Episcopal  and  Roman 
Catholic  churches  are  usually  married  at  church,  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  by  the  prescribed  forms. 


2110.  In  some  cases  there  is  a  wedding-party  given  in  the 
evening ;  in  others,  the  happy  couple  make  a  short  wedding 
tour,  and  issue  cards  of  invitation  on  their  return, 

2111.  Where  a  wedding  is  celebrated  in  the  usual  forms, 
cards  of  invitation  are  issued  at  least  a  week  beforehand. 


2112.  The  hour  selected  is  usually  eight  o'clock,  P.  M. 


2113.  Wedding  cakes,  wines,  and  other  refreshments  are 
provided  by  the  bride  and  her  friends  for  the  occasion. 


2114.  The  bride  is  usually  dressed  in  pure  white — she  wear3 
33 


614  MRS.   HALE'S    receipts    for    the    MILLIOIir. 

a  white  vail,  and  her  head  is  crowned  with  a  wreath  of  white 
flowers,  usually  artificial ;  and  orange  blossoms  are  preferred. 

2715.  She  should  wear  no  ornaments  but  such  as  her  in- 
tended husband  or  her  father  may  present  her  for  the  occasion 
. — certainly  no  gift,  if  any  such  were  retained,  of  any  former 
sweetheart.  

2716.  The  bridesmaid,  or  bridesmaids,  if  there  be  two,  or 
more,  are  generally  younger  than  the  bride,  and  should  also 
be  dressed  in  white,  but  more  simply. 


2717.  The  bridegroom  must  be  in  full  dress,  that  is,  he 
must  wear  a  dress  coat,  which  if  he  pleases,  may  be  faced  with 
white  satin  ;  a  white  satin  vest,  black  pantaloons,  and  dress 
boots  or  pumps,  black  silk  stockings,  and  white  kid  gloves,  and 
a  white  cravat. 

2718.  The  bridegroom  is  attended  by  one  or  two,  or  more, 
groomsmen,  who  should  be  dressed  in  a  similar  manner. 


2719.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  bridesmaids  to  assist  in  dressing 
the  bride,  and  making  the  necessary  preparations  for  the  enterr 
tainment  of  the  guests. 

2720.  The  chief  groomsman  engages  the  clergyman  or  mag- 
istrate, and  upon  his  arrival  introduces  him  to  the  bride  and 
bridegroom,  and  the  friends  of  the  parties. 

2721.  The  invited  guests,  upon  their  arrival,  are  received 
as  at  other  parties,  and  after  visiting  the  dressing-rooms,  and 
arranging  their  toilettes,  they  proceed  to  the  room  where  the 
ceremony  is  to  be  performed. 

2722.  In  some  cases  the  marriage  is  performed  before  the 
arrival  of  the  guests.  

2723.  When  the  hour  for  the  ceremony  has  arrived,  and  all 
things  are  ready,  the  wedding  party,  consisting  of  the  happy 
couple,  with  the  bridesmaids  aud  groomsmen,  walk  into  the 
room  arm  in  arm. 


COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE.  515 

2T24.  The  groomsmen,  each  atteijding  the  bridesmaids,  pre- 
cede the  bride  and  bridegroom,  and  take  their  position  at  the 
head  of  the  room,  which  is  usually  the  end  furthest  from  the 
entrance  ;  the  bride  standing  facing  the  assembly  on  the  left 
of  the  bridegroom — the  bridesmaids  taking  their  position  at 
her  left;  and  the  groomsmen  at  the  right  of  the  bridegroom. 


"  27 25.  The  principal  groomsman  now  formally  introduces  the 
clergyman  or  magistrate  to  the  bride  and  bridegroom,  and  he 
proceeds  to  perform  the  marriage  ceremony ;  if  a  ring  is  to  be 
used,  the  bridegroom  procures  a  plain  gold  one,  previously 
taking  some  means  to  have  it  of  the  proper  size. 


2126.  As  soon  as  the  ceremony  is  over,  and  the  bridegroom 
has  kissed  the  bride,  the  clergyman  or  magistrate  shakes  hands 
with  the  bride,  saluting  her  by  her  newly-acquired  name,  as 
Mrs. ,  and  wishes  them  joy,  prosperity  and  happiness. 


^  2727.  Then  the  groomsmen  and  bridesmaids  do  the  same  ; 
and  then  the  principal  groomsmen  brings  to  them  the  other 
persons  in  the  room,  commencing  with  the  parents  and  rela- 
tives of  the  parties,  the  bride^s  relatives  having  precedence, 
and  ladies  being  accompanied  by  gentlemen. 


2728.  In  this  manner,  all  present  are  expected  to  make  their 
salutations  and  congratulations,  first  to  the  newly-married 
couple,  and  then  to  their  parents  and  friends. 


2729.  And  where  the  wedding  cremony  has  been  performed 
before  the  arrival  of  the  guests,  they  are  received  near  the 
door,  having,  of  course,  first  visited  the  dressing-rooms,  and 
are  introduced  in  the  same  manner. 


2730.  The  groomsman  takes  occasion,  before  the  clergyman 
or  magistrate  leaves,  to  privately  thank  him  for  his  attendance, 
at  the  same  time  placing  in  his  hand  the  marriage  fee,  which 
is  wrapped  up  nicely  in  paper,  and  if  more  than  the  legal  sum, 
as  is  frequently  the  case  where  the  parties  are  wealthy,  it  is 
usually  in  gold.  

2731.  The  bridegroom,  of  course,  takes  an  early  opportunity 
to  reimburse  his  groomsman  for  necessary  expenses. 


516  MRS.    HALE*S    RECEIPTS    f^OR    THE    MILLION. 

2Y32.  When  the  presentations  and  congratulations  are  over, 
that  is,  when  the  guests  have  arrived,  the  bridal  party,  which 
till  now  has  kept  its  position,  mingles  with  the  rest  of  the  com- 
pany, and  joins  in  the  dancing  or  other  amusements. 

2T33.  The  practice  of  kissing  the  bride  is  not  so  common 
as  formerly,  and  in  regard  to  this,  the  taste  of  the  bridegroom 
may  be  consulted,  as  the  rest  of  the  company  follow  the  exam- 
ple of  the  groomsman  ;  but  the  "parents  and  very  near  relatives 
of  the  parties,  of  course,  act  as  affection  prompts  them. 

2134.  When  the  ceremony  is  performed  according  to  the 
Protestant  Episcopal  service,  the  order  of  going  to  church  is 
as  follaws  :  _____ 

2735.  The  bride,  accompanied  by  her  father,  not  unfre- 
quently  her  mother ,  and  uniformly  by  a  bridesmaid,  occupies 
the  Jirst  carriage,  

2736.  The  father  hands  out  the  bride,  and  leads  her  to  the 
altar,  the  mother  and  bridesmaid  following.  After  them  come 
the  other  bridesmaids,  attended  by  the  groomsmen,  if  there 
are  more  than  one.  ^ 

2737.  The  bridegroom  occupies  the  last  carriage,  with  the 
principal  groomsman,  an  intimate  friend  or  brother. 


2738.  He  follows,  and  stands  facing  the  altar,  with  the  bride 
at  his  left  hand.  The  father  places  himself  behind,  with  the 
mother,  if  she  attends. 


2739.  The  chief  bridesmaid  occupies  a  place  on  the  left 
of  the  bride,  to  hold  her  gloves  and  handkerchief,  and  flowers  ; 
her  companions  range  themselves  on  the  left. 


2740.  Kemember  to  take,  the  ring  vnth  you.  The  fee  to 
a  clergyman  is  according  to  the  fortune  of  the  bridegroom  ; 
and  a  trifle  should  be  given  to  the  sexton. 


2741.  When  the  ceremony  is  concluded,  the  bride  takes  the 
groom's  arm,  they  enter  their  carriage,  and  proceed  to  the 
breakfast,  every  one  else  following. 


'    COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE.  5 IT 

2'742.  The  order  of  return  from  church  differs  -from  the 
above  only  in  the  fact  that  the  bride  and  bridegroom  now  ride 
together,  the  bride  being  on  his  left,  and  a  bridesmaid,  and  a 
groomsman,  or  the  father  of  the  bride,  occupying  the  front 
seats  of  the  carriage. 

2t43.  The  wedding  breakfast  having  been  already  prepared, 
the  wedding  party  return  thereto. 


2744.  If  a  large  party,  the  bride  and  bridegroom  occupy 
seats  in  the  centre  of  the  long  table,  and  the  two  extremities 
should  be  presided  over  by  elderly  relatives,  if  possible  one 
from  each  family.  • 

2t45.  Every  body  should  endeavor  to  make  the  occasion  as 
happy  as  possible.  ^     ______ 

2746.  After  marriage,  the  bridal  party  usually  travel  for  a 
week  or  two  ;  upon  their  return,  it  is  customary  for  the  bride 
to  be  at  home  for  a  few  days  to  receive  visits.  The  first  four 
weeks  after  marriage,  constitute  the  honeymoon. 


2T4'7.  You  need  not  retain  the  whole  of  your  previous  ac- 
quaintance ;  those  only  to  whom  you  send  cards,  are,  after 
marriage,  considered  in  the  circle  of  your  visiting  acquaint- 
ance.   

2748.  The  parents  or  friends  of  the  bride  usually  send  the 
cards  to  her  connections  ;  the  bridegroom  selects  those  per- 
sons among  his  former  associates  whom  he  wishes  to  retain  as 
such. 

2749.  The  cards  are  sometimes  united  by  a  silken  cord,  or 
white  ribbon,  to  distinguish  those  of  a  newly  married  pair 
from  ordinary  visitors  ;  but  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  be  in  good 
taste.  ^__ 

2750.  A  married  woman  may  leave  her  own  or  her  hus- 
band^s  card  in  returning  a  visit;  the  latter  only  would  be 
adopted  as  a  resource  in  the  event  of  her  not  having  her  own 
with  her 


618  MRS.  hale's   receipts    for  THB   MILLIOK", 

2751.  "Cards  should  (if  belonging  to  the  gentleman)  be  plain, 
plainly  written  or  printed,  and  unglazed  and  ungilt. 


2152.  Ladies  should  have  their  cards  enameled,  but,  for 
obvious  reasons,  the  name  plain  and  distinct,-  so  as  to  catch 
the  eye  at  once.  

2153.  When  a  man  marries,  it  is  understood  that  all  former 
acquaintanceship  ends,  unless  he  intimate  a  desire  to  renew  it, 
by  sending  you  his  own  and  his  wife's  card,  if  near,  or  by  let- 
ter, if  distant.  ^ 

2154.  If  this  be  neglected,  be  sure  no  further  intercourse  is 
desired.  

2Y55.  In  the  first  place  :  A  bachelor  is  seldom  very  partic- 
ular in  the  selection  of  his  companions.  So  long  as  he  is 
amused,  he  will  associate  freely  enough  with  those  whose 
morals  and  habits  would  point  them  out  as  highly  dangerous 
persons  to  introduce  into  the  sanctity  of  domestic  life. 

2756.  Secondly.  A  married  man  has  the  tastes  of  another 
to  consult ;  and  the  friends  of  the  husband  may  not  be  equally 
acceptable  to  the  wife. 

2Y57.  Besides,  newly-married  people  may  wish  to  limit 
the  circle  of  their  friends,  from  commendable  motives  of  econ- 
omy.   

2158.  When  a  man  first  ^^sets  up^^  in  the  world,  the  burden 
of  an  extensive  and  indiscriminate  acquaintance  may  be  felt  in 
various  ways.  

2159.  Many  have  had  cause  to  regret  the  weakness  of  mind 
which  allowed  them  to  plunge  into  a  vortex  of  gayety  and  ex- 
pense they  could  ill  afford,  from  which  they  have  found  it  diffi- 
cult to  extricate  themselves,  and  the  effects  of  which  have 
proved  a  serious  evil  to  them  in  after  life. 


2160.  When  a  man  is  about  to  be  married,  he  usually  gives 
a  dinner  to  his  bachelor  friends ;  which  is  understood  to  be 
their  conge  unless  he  choose  to  renew  their  acquaintance. 


COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE.  519 

2Y61.  Wedding'rings.'^The  custom  of  wearing  wedding- 
rings  appears  to  have  taken  its  rise  among  the  Romans. 

2T62.  Before  the  celebration  of  their  nuptials,  there  was  a 
meeting  of  friends  at  the  house  of  the  lady^s  father,  to  settle 
articles  of  the  marriage  contract,  when  it  was  agreed  that  the 
dowry  should  be  paid  down  on  the  wedding-day  or  soon  after. 


2T63.  On  this  occasion,  there  was  commonly  a  feast,  at  the 
conclusion  of  which  the  man  gave  to  the  woman  as  a  pledge, 
a  ring,  which  she  put  on  the  fourth  finger  of  her  left  hand,  be- 
cause it  was  believed  that  a  nerve  reached  thence  to  the  heart, 
and  a  day  was  then  named  for  the  marriage. 


2164.  Wedding  cakes, — Four  pounds  of  fine  flour,  well 
dried,  four  pounds  of  fresh  butter,  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mace  pounded  and  sifted  fine,  the  same 
of  nutmegs.  

2165.  To  every  pound  of  flour  add  eight  eggs  ;  wash  four 
pounds  of  currants  ;  let  them  be  well  picked  and  dried  before 
the  fire ;.  blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  cut  them 
lengthwise  very  thin  ;  a  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  candied 
orange,  the  same  of  candied  lemon  ;  half  a  pint  of  brandy. 


2766.  When  these  are  made  ready,  work  the  butter  with 
your  hand  to  a  cream,  then  beat  in  your  sugar,  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  beat  the  whites  of  your  eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth  ; 
mix  them  with  your  sugar  and  butter ;  beat  your  eggs  half  an 
hour  at  least,  and  mix  them  with  your  cake  ;  then  put  in  your 
flour,  mace  and  nutmeg  ;  keep  beating  it  well  till  your  oven 
is  ready — pour  in  the  brandy,  and  beat  the  currants  and 
almonds  lightly  in.  

2t6T.  Tie  three  sheets  of  white  paper  round  the  bottom  of 
your  hoop  to  keep  it  from  running  out ;  rub  it  well  with  but- 
ter, put  in  your  cake,  lay  the  sweetmeats  in  layers,  with  cake 
betweeu  each  layer,  and  after  it  is  risen  and  colored,  cover  it 
with  paper  before  your  oven  is  stopped. up  ;  it  will  require 
three  hours  to  bake  properly. 


2768.  Almond  Icing  for  Wedding  Cake, — Beat  the  whites 


520  M^S.   bale's    Rm}EIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

of  three  eggs  to  a  strong  froth  ;  beatr  a  pint  of  Jordan  almonds 
very  fine  with  rose-water ;  mix  them,  with  the  eggs,  lightly 
together  ;  -put  in  by  degre(vs  a  pound  of  common  loaf  sugar  in 
powder. 

2<r69.  When  the  cake  is  baked  enough,  take  it  out,  and  lay 
it  on  the  icing ;  then  put  it  in  to  brown.  ^ 

2TY0.  After  Marriage. — The  power  of  a  wife  for  good  or 
evil,  is  irresistible.  Home  must  be  the  seat  of  happiness,  or 
it  must  be  for  ever  unknown. 


2171.  A  good  wife  is  to  a  man,  wisdom  and  courage,  and 
strength  and  endurance. 

2TT2.  A  bad  wife  is  confusion,  weakness,  discomfiture,  and 
despair.  ^ 

27  T3.  No  condition  is  hopeless  where  the  wife  possesses  firm- 
ness, decision,  and  economy. 

2TY4  There  is  no  outward  prosperity  which  can  counteract 
indolence,  extravagance,  and  folly  at  home.  No  spirit  can 
long  endure  bad  domestic  influence. 


2T75.  Man  is  strong,  but  his  heart  is  not  adamant.  He  de- 
lights in  enterprise  and  action ;  but  to  sustain  him  he  needs  a 
tranquil  mind,  and  a  whole  heart.  He  needs  his  moral  force 
in  the  conflicts  of  the  world. 


2176.  To  recover  his  equanimity  and  composure,  home  must 
be  to  him  a  place  of  repose,  of  peace,  of  cheerfulness,  of  com- 
fort ;  and  his  soul  renews  its  strength  again,  and  goes  forth 
with  fresh  vigor  to  encounter  the  labor  and  troubles  of  life. 


2717.  But  if  at  home  he  finds  no  rest,  and  is  there  met  with 
bad  temper,  sullenness,  or  gloom,  or  is  assailed  by  discontent 
or  complaint,  hope  vanishes,  and  he  sinks  into  despair. 


2TT8.  A  wife   must  learn,  to  form    her  husband's  happi- 
ness, in  what  direction  the" secret  lies;  she  must  not  cherish  his 


COURTSHIP    AND   MARRIAGE.  521 

weaknessGvS  by  working  upon  them  ;  she  must  not  rashly  run 
counter  to  his  prejudices ;  her  motto  must  be,  never  to  irritate. 


2t79.  She  must  study  never  to  draw  largely  on  the  small 
stock  of  patience  in  a  man's  nature,  nor  to  increase  his  obsti- 
nacy by  trying  to  drive  him ;  never,  never,  if  possible,  to  have 
scenes.  

2Y80.  We  doubt  much  if  a  real  quarrel,  even  made  up,  does 
not  loosen  the  bond  between  man  and  wife,  and  sometimes, 
unless  the  affection  of  both  be  very  sincere,  lastingly. 


2781.  If  irritation  should  occur,  a  woman  must  expect  to 
hear  from  most  men  a  strength  and  vehemence  of  language  far 
more  than  the  occasion  requires.  Mild,  as  well  as  stern  men, 
are  prone  to  this  exaggeration  of  language  ;  let  not  a  woman 
be  tempted  to  say  any  thing  sarcastic  or  violent  in  retaliation. 
The  bitterest  repentance  must  needs  follow  if  she  do. 


2782.  Men  frequently  forget  what  they  have  said,  but  sel- 
dom what  is  uttered  by  their  wives.  They  are  grateful,  too, 
for  forbearance  in  such  cases  ;  for,  whilst  asserting  most  loudly 
that  they  are  right,  they  are  often  conscious  that  they  are 
wrong. 

2783.  Give  a  little  time,  as  the  greatest  boon  you  can  be- 
stow, to  the  irritated  feelings  of  your  husband. 

2784.  It  is  astonishing  how  much  the  cheerfulness  of  a  wife 
contributes  to  the  happiness  of  home. 

2785.  She  is  the  sun — the  centre  of  a  domestic  system,  and 
her  children  are  like  planets  around  her,  reflecting  her  rays. 

2786.  How  merry  the  little  ones  look  when  the  mother  is 
joyous  and  good-tempered ;  and  how  easily  and  pleasantly  her 
household  labors  are  overcome  ! 


2787.  How  to  Treat  a  Wife. — First,  get  a  wife ;  secondly, 
be  patient. 

2788.  You  may  have  great  trials  and  perplexities  in  your 


523  MBS.   HALE'S    BECEIPTfl    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

business  with  the  world,  but  do  not  carry  to  your  home  a 
clouded  or  contracted  brow. 


2*789.  Your  wife  may  have  had  many  trials,  which,  though 
of  less  magnitude,  may  have  been  as  hard  to  bear. 


2190.  A  kind,   conciliating  word,   a  tender  look,   will  do 
wonders  in  chasing  from  her  brow  all  clouds  of  gloom. 


2791.  You  encounter  difficulties  in  the  open  air,  fanned  by 
heaven's  cool  breezes  ;  but  your  wife  is  often  shut  in  from  these 
healthful  influences,  and  her  health  fails,  and  her  spirits  lose 
their  elasticity.  

2792.  But  oh  I  bear  with  her;  she  has  trials  and  sorrows  to 
which  you  are  a  stranger,  but  which  your  tenderness  can  de- 
prive of  all  their  anguish. 

2793.  Notice  kindly  her  little  attentions  and  efforts  to  pro- 
mote your  comfort.  

2794.  Do  not  treat  her  with  indifference,  if  you  would  not 
sear  and  palsy  her  heart,  which,  watered  by^kindness,  would, 
to  the  latest  day  of  your  existence,  throb  with  sincere  and 
constant  affection.  

2795.  Sometimes  yield  your  wishes  to  hers.  She  has  pre- 
ferences as  strong  as  you,  and  it  may  be  just  as  trying  to 
yield  her  choice  as  to  you. 

2796.  Do  you  find  it  hard  to  yield  sometimes  ?  Think  you 
it  is  not  difficult  for  her  to  give  up  always  ? 

2797.  If  you  never  yield  to  her  wishes,  there  is  danger  that 
she  will  think  you  are  selfish,  and  care  only  for  yourself,  and 
with  such  feelings  she  can  not  love  as  she  might. 


2798.  Again,  show  yourself  manly,  so  that  your  wife  can 
look  up  to  you  and  feel  that  you  will  act  nobly,  and  that  she 
can  confide  in  your  judgment. 


2799.  You  can  hardly  imagine  how  refreshing  it  is  to  occa- 
sionally call  up  the  recollection  of  your  courting  days. 


•courtship  axd  marriage.  523 

2800.  How  tedionsly  the  hours  rolled  away  prior  to  the  ap- 
pointed time  of  meeting ;  how  swift  they  seemed  to  fly,  when 
met ;  how  fond  was  the  first  greeting ;  how  tender  the  last 
embrace  ;  how  fervent  were  your  vows  ;  how  vivid  your  dreams 
of  future  happiness,  when,  returning  to  your  home,  you  felt 
yourself  secure  in  the  confessed  love  of  the  object  of  your 
warm  affections. 

2801.  Is  your  dream  realized  ? — are  you  as  happy  as  you 
expected?  

2802.  Why  not  ?  Consider  whether  as  a  husband  you  are 
as  fervent  and  constant  as  you  were  when  a  lover. 


2803.  Remember  that  the  wife's  claims  to  your  unremitting 
regard — great  before  marriage,  are  now  exalted  to  a  much 
higher  degree.  

2804.  She  has  left  the  world  for  you — the  home  of  her 
childhood,  the  fireside  of  her  parents,  their  watchful  care  and 
sweet  intercourse  have  all  been  yielded  up  for  you. 


2805.  Look  then  most  jealously  upon  all  that  may  tend  to 
attract  you  from  home,  and  to  weaken  that  union  upon  which 
your  temporal  happiness  mainly  depends  ;  and  believe  that  in 
the  solemn  relationship  of  husband  is  to  be  found  one  of  the 
best  guarantees  for  man's* honor  and  happiness. 


2806.  When  once  a  man  has  established  a  home,  his  most 
important  duties  have  fairly  begun. 


280T.  The  errors  of  youth  may  be  overlooked  ;  want  of  pur- 
pose, and  even  of  honor,  in  his  earlier  days,  may  be  forgotten. 


2808.  But  from  the  moment  of  his  marriage  he  begins  to 
write  his  indelible  history ;  not  by  pen  and  ink,  but  by  actions 
—by  which  he  must  ever  afterward  be  reported  and  judged. 


2809.  His  conduct  at  home ;  his  solicitude  for  his  family; 
the  training  of  his  children ;  his  devotion  to  his  wife ;  his  re- 
gard for  the  interests  of  eternity,  are  his  record. 


524  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2810.  Seek  to  govern  your  own  household  by  the  display 
of  hio;h  moral  excellence. 


2811.  A  domineering  spirit- — a  fault-finding  petulance — im- 
patience of  trifling  delays — and  the  exhibition  of  unworthy 
passions  at  the  slightest  provocation,  can  add  no  laurel  to 
your  own  ^ lordly''  brow,  impart  no  sweetness  to  home,  and  call 
forth  no  respect  from  those  by  whom  you  may  be  surrounded. 

2812.  It  is  one  thing  to  be  a  master — another  thing  to  be 
a  man.  The  latter  should  be  the  husband's  aspiration ;  for 
he  who  can  not  govern  himself  is  ill-qualified  to  govern 
another. 


OTJR  HOUSE. 

2813.  If  a  young  married  couple  intend  to  furnish  a  house, 
we  say  to  them — Attend  to  these  rules. 


2814.  Do  not  spend  all  your  money,  be  it  much  or  little. 
Do  nob  let  the  beauty  of  this  thing,  and  the  cheapness  of  that, 
tempt  you  to  buy  unnecessary  articles. 


2815.  Buy  merely  enough  to  get  along  with  at  first.  It  is 
only  by  experience  that  you  can  tell  what  will  be  the  wants 
of  your  family.  

2816.  If  you  spend  all  your  money,  you  will  find  you  have 
purchased  many  things  you  do  not  want,  and  have  no  means 
left  to  get  many  things  which  you  do  want. 

281*7.  If  you  have  enough,  and  more  than  enough,  to  get 
every  thing  suitable  to  your  situation,  do  not  think  you  must 
spend  it  all,  merely  because  you  happen  to  have  it. 

2818.  Begin  humbly.  As  riches  increase,  it  is  easy  and 
pleasant  to  increase  in  comforts  ;  but  it  is  always  painful  and 
inconvenient  to  decrease.  After  all,  these  things  are  viewed 
in  their  proper  light  by  the  truly  judicious  and  respectable. 


OtJR    HOUSE.  525 

2819.  Neatness,  tastefulness,  and  good  sense  may  be  shown 
in  the  management  of  a  small  household,  and  the  arrangement 
of  a  little  furniture,  as  well  as  upon  a  larger  scale  ;  and  these 
qualities  are  always  praised,  and  always  treated  with  respect 
and  attention.  , 

2820.  The  consideration  which  many  purchase  by  living 
beyond  their  income,  and,  of  course,  living  upon  others,  is  not 
worth  the  trouble  it  costs.  __^_ 

2821.  The  glare  there  is  about  this  false  and  wicked  parade 
is  deceptive :  it  does  not,  in  fact,  procure  a  man  valuable 
friends,  or  extensive  influence. 


2822.  If  the  house  is  rented. — Before  taking  a  house,  be 
careful  to  calculate  that  the  rent  is  not  too  high  in  proportion 
to  your  means  ;  for  remember  that  the  rent  is  a  claim  which 
must  be  paid  with  but  little  delay,  and  that  the  landlord  has 
greater  power  over  your  property  than  any  other  creditor. 


2823.  Having  determined  the  amount  of  rent  which  you 
can  afford  to  pay,  be  careful  to  select  the  best  house  which 
caji  be  obtained  for  that  sum.  And  in  making  that  selection, 
let  the  following  matters  be  carefully  considered : 


2824.  First. — Carefully  regard  the  healthfulness  of  the  situ- 
ation. Avoid  the  neighborhood  of  graveyards,  and  of  facto- 
ries giving  forth  unhealthy  vapors ;  avoid  low  and  damp  dis- 
tricts, the  course  of  canals,  and  localities  of  reservoirs  of  water, 
gas-works,  &c.;  make,  inquiries  as  to  the  drainage  of  the  neigh- 
borhood, and  inspect  the  drainage  and  water  supply  of  the 
premises.  

2825.  A  house  standing  on  an  incline  is  likely  to  be  better 
drained  than  one  standing  upon  the  summit  of  a  hill,  or  on  a 
level  below  a  hill. 

2826.  Endeavor  to  obtain  a  position  where  the  direct  sun- 
light falls  upon  the  house,  for  this  is  absolutely  necessary  to 
health  ;  and  give  preference  to  a  house  the  openings  of  which 
are  sheltered  from  the  north  and  east  winds. 


526  MRS.   HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

282Y.  Second. — Consider  the  distance  of  the  house  from 
your  place  of  occupation  ;  and  also  its  relation  to  provision 
markets,  and  the  prices  that  prevail  in  the  neighborhood. 


2828.  Having  considered  these  material  and  leading  fea- 
tures, examine  the  house  in  detail,  carefully  looking  into  its 
state  of  repair.  

2829.  Notice  the  windows  that  are  broken;  whether  the 
chimneys  smoke  ;  whether  they  have  been  recently  swept ; 
whether  the  paper  on  the  walls  is  damaged,  especially  in  the 
lower  parts,  and  the  corners  by  the  skirtings  ;  whether  the  locks, 
bolts,  handles  of  doors,  and  window-fastenings  are  in  proper 
condition  ;  make  a  list  of  the  fixtures. 


2830.  Ascertain  whether  all  rent  and  taxes  were  paid  up 
by  the  previous  tenant,  and  whether  the  party  from  whom  you 
take  the  house  is  the  original  landlord,  or  his  agent  or  tenant. 

2831.  And  do  not  commit  yourself  by  the  signing  of  any 
agreement  until  you  are  satisfied  upon  all  these  points,  and 
see  that  all  has  been  done  which  the  landlord  had  undertaken. 


2832.  In  the  country^  the  married  couple  usually  go  to  a 
house  of  their  own.  

2833.  Our  House  / — It  is  a  phrase  of  great  importance, 
and  gives  dignity  to  the  newly  married. 


2834.  Society, — Social  intercourse  is  necessary  to  our  hap- 
piness and  improvement.     

2835.  Conversation  is  the  medium  by  which  social  inter- 
course is  maintained. 

2836.  Style  in  conversation  is  as  important,  and  as  capable 
of  cultivation,  as  style  in  writing.  The  manner  of  saying 
things  is  what  gives  them  their  value. 


2837.  Avoid  provincialisms  in  your  language  and  pronun- 
ciation. Webster  is  the  standard  for  pronouncing  in  the 
best  society  in  the  United  States. 


CONVERSATION.  52 1 

2838.  Under  favorable  circumstances,  and  among  persons 
who  know  how  to  train  a  conversation,  there  are  few  if  any 
amusements  more  grateful  to  the  human  mind. 


2839.  The  object  of  conversation  is  to  entertain  and  amuse. 
To  be  agreeable  you  must  learn  to  be  a  good  listener.  A 
man  who  monopolizes  a  conversation  is  a  bore,  no  matter  how 
great  his  knowledge.  ^ 

2840.  Never  get  into  a  dispute.  State  your  opinions,  but 
do  not  argue  them. 

2841.  Do  not  contradict;  and  above  all,  never  offend  by 
correcting  mistakes  or  inaccuracies  of  fact  oi*  expression. 


2842.  Never  lose  temper — never  notice  a  slight — never 
seem  conscious  of  an  affront,  unless  it  is  of  a  gross  character, 
and  then  punish  it  at  once. 


2843.  You  can  never  quarrel  in  the  presence  of  ladies,  but 
a  personal  indignity  may  be  avenged  anywhere. 


2844.  Never  talk  of  people  by  hints,  slurs,  innuendos,  and 
such  mean  devices.  If  you  have  any  thing  to  say,  out  with  it. 
Nothing  charms  more  than  candor,  when  united  with  good 
breeding.  

2845.  Do  not  call  people  by  their  names,  in  speaking  to 
them.  In  speaking  of  your  own  children,  never  "  Master''  and 
''Miss"  them — in  speaking  to  other  people  of  theirs,  never 
neglect  to  do  so.  

2846.  Be  very  careful  in  speaking  of  subjects  upon  which 
you  are  not  acquainted.       

284Y.  Much  is  to  be  learned  by  confessing  your  ignorance — 
nothing  can  be  by  pretending  to  knowledge  which  you  do  not 
possess.  

2848.  Never  tell  long  istories.  Avoid  all  common  slang 
phrases  and  pet  words. 


528  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2849.  Of  all  things,  don't  attempt  to  be  too  fine.     Use 
good  honest  English — and  common  words  for  common  things. 


2850.   Good  sense,   sound  and  varied  information,  are  as 
necessary  as  confidence,  to  enable  a  man  to  converse  well. 


2851.  Every  one  knows  something  which  he  is  willing  to 
tell,  and  which  any  other  that  he  is  in  company  with  wishes  to 
know,  or  which  if  known  to  him,  would  be  amusing  or  useful. 


2852.  To  be  a  skillful  conversationist,  one's  eyes  and  ears 
should  be  busy  ;  nothing  should  escape  his  observation.  His 
memory  should  be  a  good  one,  and  he  should  have  a  good- 
natured  willingness  to  please  and  to  be  pleased. 


2853.  Avoid  a  loud  tone,  particularly  in  speaking  to  ladies. 

2854.  By  observing  men  of  the  world,  you  will  perceive 
that  their  voices,  as  it  were,  involuntarily  assume  a  softness 
as  they  address  the  sex ;  this  is  one  of  the  most  obvious  proofs 
of  an  intimacy  with  good  society. 

2855.  Never  attempt  to  occupy  the  attention  of  a  company 
for  a  long  time  ;  unless  your  conversation  is  very  brilliant,  it 
must  become  very  tiresome. 

2856.  Be  not  partial  to  theorizing,  or  your  conversation 
will  assume  the  style  of  speech-making,  which  is  intolerable. 

285t.  Badinage  is  pleasant,  but  it  may  be  dangerous  ;  stupid 
people  may  imagine  you  are  ridiculing  them,  and  the  stupid 
are  the  most  assiduous  enemies. 


2858.  Abjure  punning  ;  it  has  been  aptly  designated  "  the 
mt  of  fools."     Gentlemen  never  pun. 

2859.  A  tattler  is  a  most  contemptible  character,  uniting  in 
person  either  excessive  ignorance,  folly,  and  vanity,  or  the  ex- 
tremes of  meanness,  mischief  and  malignity. 

2860.  Women  ordinarily  slander  more  from  vanity  than 
vice — men,  from  jealousy  than  malignity. 


CONVERSATION.  529 

2861.  Without  intending  mischief,  many  persons  do  much 
by  repeating  conversations  from  one  house  to  another. 

2862.  A  man  should  never  permit  himself  to  lose  his  temper 
in  society,  nor  show  that  he  has  taken  offense  at  any  supposed 
slight — it  places  him  in  a  disadvantageous  position — betraying 
an  absence  of  self-respect,  or  at  the  least  of  self-possession. 


2863.  If,  upon  the  entrance  of  a  visitor,  you  continue  a  con- 
versation begun- before,  you  should  always  explain  the  -subject 
to  the  new-comer.  

2864.  There  cannot  be  a  custom  more  vulgar  or  offensive 
than  that  of  taking  a  person  aside  to  whisper  in  a  room  with 
company,  yet  this  rudeness  is  of  frequent  occurrence — and 
that  with  persons  who  ought  to  know  better. 


2865.  Questions  upon  that  which  does  not  immediately  con- 
cern you,  are  impertinent. 


2866.  Be  well  read,  for  the  sake  of  the  general  company 
and  the  ladies,  in  the  literature  of  the  day.  You  will,  thereby, 
enlarge  the  regions  of  pleasurable  talk.  Besides,  it  is  often 
necessary.  

286T.  Hazlitt,  who  had  entertained  an  unfounded  prejudice 
against  Dickens^s  works  when  they  were  first  written,  confesses 
that  at  last  he  was  obliged  to  read  them,  because  he  could  not 
enter  a  mixed  company  without  hearing  them  admired  and 
quoted.  

2868.  Always  avoid  any  thing  like  absence  of  mind.  Some 
fops  assume  this,  but  it  is  silly  and  contemptible. 


2869.  In  order  to  put  everybody  in  the  company  at  ease, 
we  should  adopt  the  manners  and  customs  of  those  with  whom 
we  happen  for  the  time  to  consort. 

2870.  People  who,  having  traveled,  adopt,  as  many  do,  fo- 
reign phraseology,  idiom,  or  accent,  are  excessively  vulgar. 

31 


630  MRS.  Hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2811.  Be  especiallj  careful,  in  a  mixed  company,  whom  you 
satirize.  

2812.  Swearing,  which  formerly  pervaded  every  rank  of 
society,  is  now  to  be  chiefly  found  in  a  very  low  and  unin- 
structed  class ;  it  is,  in  fact,  a  vulgar  and  proscribed  mode  of 
speech.  

2813.  To  those  who  are  guilty  of  it,  for  these  reasons  it  is 
only  necessary  to  point  out,  that  no  well-informed  person  can 
be  at  the  least  loss,  with  the  genuine  words  of  the  English 
language,  to  express  all  legitimate  ideas  and  feelings  ;  and  that 
to  use  either  profane  or  slang  words  is,  at  the  least,  the  indi- 
cation of  a  low  taste  and  inferior  understanding. 

2814.  Never  presume  to  cultivate  an  over-familiarity  of 
manner,  which  is  always  offensive ;  rather  be  reserved — even 
to  your  best  friends.  If  you  proceed  with  members  of  your 
family  to  a  party,  do  not  be  seen  talking  with  them. 


2815.  Try  to  make  every  one  at  their  ease ;  and  if  you  iBnd 
-other  people  are  not  so  well  bred  as  you  could  wish,  take  the 

^will  for  the  deed,  and  never  show,  nor  attempt  to  show,  your 
disgust  at  them.  

2816.  Try  heartily  to  please  everybody,  and  you  will  be 
pleased  yourself;  and,  besides  this,  render  yourself  the  most 
agreeable  person  in  the  room. 


2811.  Should  you  chance  to  be  thrown  into  the  company 
of  what  the  man  in  the  farce  calls  a  real  live  lord,  do  not  in- 
terlard your  talk  with  "my  lord,"  and  "your  lordship."  Sir 
is  suflScient,  after  once  addressing  him  as  "  my  lord,"  to  show 
that  you  are  acquainted  with  his  rank.  Madam  is  to  be  used 
to  a  lady  of  title,  to  whom  also  the  previous  rule  applies. 


•  2818.  There  are  many  talkers,  but  few  who  know  how  to 
converse  agreeably.  .. 

2819.  Speak  distinctly,  neither  too  rapidly  nor  too  slowly. 


2880.  Accommodate  the  pitch  of  your  voice  to  the  hearing 
of  the  person  with  whom  you  are  conversing. 


CONVEESATIOK.  531 

2881.  Never  speak  with  your  mouth  full. 


2882.  Tell  your  jokes  and  laugh  afterward. 


2883.  Dispense  with  superfluous  words — such  as  ''Well,  I 
should  think."  

2884.  In  society  we  sometimes  meet  opionated,  selfish  peo- 
ple, who  fancy  they  know  every  thing,  when  in  reality  they 
know  nothing  !  

2885.  The  real  end  of  acquiring  a  polite  manner  is  to  make 
yourself  pleasing,  and  your  company  acceptable  to  all.  This 
must  be  done  by  little  sacrifices — by  curbing,  if  you  be  plagued 
with  it,  your  desire  to  engross  the  conversation,  or,  on  the 
contrary,  breaking  through  your  habitual  taciturnity. 


2686.  The  woman  who  wishes  her  conversation  to  be  agree- 
able, will  avoid  conceit  or  affectation,  and  laughter  which  is  not 
natural  and  spontaneous. 


288*7.  Her  language  will  be  easy  and  unstudied,  marked  by 
a  graceful  carelessness,  which,  at  the  same  time,  never  over- 
steps the  limits  of  propriety. 


2888.  Her  lips  will  readily  yield  to  a  pleasant  smile ;  she 
will  not  love  to  hiear  herself  talk  ;  her  tones  will  bear  the  im- 
press of  sincerity,  and  her  eyes  kindle  with  animation,  as  she 
speaks.  

2889.  The  art  of  pleasing  is,  in  truth,  the  very  soul  of  good 
breeding ;  for  the  precise  object  of  the  latter  is  to  render  us 
agreeable  to  all  with  whom  we  associate ;  to  make  us,  at  the 
same  time,  esteemed  and  loved. 


2890.  We  need  scarcely  advert  to  the  rudeness  of  interrupt- 
ing any  one  who  is  speaking,  or  to  the  impropriety  of  pushing, 
to  its  full  extent,  a  discussion  which  has  become  unpleasant. 


2891.  Some  men  have  a  mania  for  Greek  and  Latin  quota- 
tions ;  this  is  peculiarly  to  be  avoided.     It  is  like  pulling  up 


532  iiRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

the  stones  from  a  tomb  wherewith  to  kill  the  living.    Nothing 
is  more  wearisome  than  pedantry. 


2892.  If  you  feel  your  intellectual  superiority  to  any  one 
with  whom  you  are  conversing,  do  not  seek  to  bear  him  down  ; 
it  would  be  an  inglorious  triumph,  and  a  breach  of  good 
manners.  

2893.  Beware,  too,  of  speaking  lightly  of  subjects  which 
bear  a  sacred  character. 


2894.  Witlings  occasionally  gain  a  reputation  in  society ; 
but  nothing  is  more  insipid  and  in  worse  taste  than  their  con- 
ceited harangues  and  self-sufficient  air. 

2895.  It  is  a  common  idea  that  the  art  of  writing  and  the 
art  of  conversation  are  one  ;  this  is  a  great  mistake.  A  man 
of  genius  may  be  a  very  dull  talker. 


2896.  The  two  grand  modes  of  making  your  conversation 
interesting,  are  to  enliven  it  by  recitals  calculated  to  affect 
and  impress  your  hearers,  and  to  intersperse  it  with  anecdotes 
and  smart  things. 


2897.  It  follows  that  all  matter  of  offense  in  conversation 
should  be  avoided.     The  self-love  of  others  is  to  be  respected. 


2898.  Therefore,  no  one  is  tolerated  who  makes  himself  the 
subject  of  his  own  commendation,  nor  who  disregards  the  feel- 
ings of  those  whom  he  addresses. 

2899.  There  is  as  much  demand  for  politeness  and  civility 
in  conversation  as  in  any  other  department  of  social  inter- 
course. ___ 

2900.  One  who  rudely  interrupts  another,  does  much  the 
same  thing  as  though  he  should,  when  walking  with  another, 
impertinently  thrust  himself  before  his  companion,  and  stop  his 
progress.  . 

2901.  Bules  of  Conduct. — The  following  excellent  rules  are 
from  the  diary  of  Mrs.  Pry  : — 


HEALTH   AND   WEALTH.  533 

2902.  1.  Never  lose  any  time  ;  I  do  not  think  that  lost 
which  is  spent  in  amusement  or  recreation,  some  time  every 
day  ;  but  always  be  in  the  habit  of  being  employed. 


2903.  2.  Never  err  the  least  in  truth. 


2904.  3.  Never  say  any  ill  thing  of  a  person  when  thou 
canst  say  a  good  thing  of  him  ;  not  only  speak  charitably,  but 
feel  so.  

2905.  4.  Never  be  irritable  or  unkind  to  any  body. 


2906.  5.  Never  indulge  thyself  in  luxuries  that  are  not  ne- 
cessary.   

2907.  6.  Do  all  things  with  consideration ;  and,  when  thy 
path  to  act  right  is  most  difficult,  feel  confidence  in  that  Power 
alone  which  is  able  to  assist  thee,  and  exert  thy  own  powers 
as  far  as  they  go. 


PAET   XL 

HEALTH  AND  WEALTH. 

Eow  to  Preserve  Health — Bathing ,  etc. — Medicine — OinU 
ments — Blisters — Poultices,  etc, — Cholera — Domestic  Sur- 
gery, etc. — Riches — Temperance — Dr,  Franklin's  Way  to 
Wealth. 

THE  PKESERVATION   OF   HEALTH. 

2908.  In  another  place  (see   ''Health  and  Beauty,"  p.  89, 
etc.),  I  have  given  many  useful  hints  on  this  subject. 


2909.  Still  more  may  be  told ;  and  new  suggestions,  cautions, 
and  remedies  will  be  found  in  the  following  pages. 


2910.  These  Rules  are  given  to  persuade  people  to  take 
care  and  preserve  their  health  ;  not  to  induce  them  needlessly 
to  doctor  themselves. 


534  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

2911.  The  First  Bule  for  those  in  health  is — take  no  medi- 
cine. 

2912.  The  Second  Rule, — In  sickness,  send  for  the  best 
physicians  ;  viz.,  those  who  give  least  medicine. 


2913.  Pure  atmospheric  air  is  composed  of  nitrogen,  oxy- 
gen, and  a  very  small  proportion  of  carbonic  acid  gas.  Air 
once  breathed  has  lost  the  chief  part  of  its  oxygen,  and 
acquired  a  proportionate  increase  of  carbonic  acid  gas. 


2914.  Therefore,  health  requires  that  we  breathe' the  same 
air  once  only.  

2915.  The  solid  part  of  our  bodies  is  continually  wasting, 
and  requires  to  be  repaired  by  fresh  substances. 


2916.  Therefore,  food,  which  is  to  repair  the  loss,  should  be 
taken  with  due  regard  to  the  exercise  and  waste  of  the  body. 


2917.  The  fluid  part  of  our  bodies  also  wastes  constantly ; 
there  is  but  one  fluid  in  animals,  which  is  water. 


2918.  Therefore,  water  only  is  necessary,*  and  no  artifice 
can  produce  a  better  drink. 


2919.  The  fluid  of  our  bodies  is  to  the  solid  in  proportion 
as  nine  to  one.  

2920.  Therefore,  a  like  proportion  should  prevail  in  the 
total  amount  of  food  taken. 


2921.  Light   exercises   an   important   influence   upon   the 
growth  and  vigor  of  animals  and  plants. 


2922.  Therefore,  our  dwellings  should  freely  admit  the  solar 
rays. 

2923.  Decomposing  animal  and  vegetable  substances  yield 
various  noxious  gases,  which  enter  the  lungs  and  corrupt  the 
blood. 


PRESERVATION    OF    HEALTH.  535 

2924.  Therefore,  all  impurities  should  be  kept  away  from 
our  abodes,  and  every  precaution  be  observed  to  secure  a 
pure  atmosphere.  

2925.  Warmth  is  essential  to  all  the  bodily  functions. 


2926.  Therefore,  an  equal  bodily  temperature  should  be 
maintained  by  exercise,  by  clothing,  or  by  fire. 


292t.  Exercise  warms,  invigorates,  and  purifies  the  body; 
clothing  preserves  the  warmth  the  body  generates ;  fire  im- 
parts warmth  externally. 


2928.  Therefore,  to  obtain  and  preserve  warmth,  exercise 
and  clothing  are  preferable  to  fire. 


2929.  Fire  consumes  the  oxygen  of  the  air,  and  produces 
noxious  gases.  

2930.  Therefore,  the  air  is  less  pure  in  the  presence  of 
candles,  gas,  or  coal  fire,  than  otherwise  ;  and  the  deteriora- 
tion should  be  repaired  by  increased  ventilation. 


2931.  The  skin  is  a  highly-organized  membrane,  full  of 
minute  pores,  cells,  blood-vessels,  and  nerves ;  it  imbibes 
moisture  or  throws  it  off,  according  to  the  state  of  the  atmo- 
sphere and  the  temperature  of  the  body.  It  also  '^breathes," 
as  do  the  lungs  (though  less  actively).  All  the  internal 
organs  sympathize  with  the  skin. 


2932.  Therefore,  it  should  be  repeatedly  cleansed. 


2933.  Late  hours  and  anxious  pursuits  exhaust  the  nervous 
system,  and  produce  disease  and  premature  death. 


2934.  Therefore,  the  hours  of  labor  and  study  should  be 
short.  

2985.  Mental  and  bodily  Exercise  are  equally  essential  to 
the  general  health  and  happiness. 


2936.  Therefore  labor  and  study  should  succeed  each  other. 


536  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

293Y.  Man  will  li^e  most  healthily  upon  simple  solids  and 
fluids,  of  which  a  sufficient  but  temperate  quantity  should  be 
taken.  

2938.  Therefore,  strong  drinks,  tobacco,  snuff,  opium,  and 
all  mere  indulgences  should  be  avoided. 


2939.  Sudden  alternations  of  heat  and  cold  are  dangerous, 
especially  to  the  young  and  the  aged. 


2940.  Therefore,  clothing,  in  quantity  and  quality,  should  bo 
adapted  to  the  alterations  of  night  and  day,  and  of  the  seasons. 


2941.  And  therefore,  also,  drinking  cold  water  when  the 
body  is  hot,  and  hot  tea  and  soups  when  cold,  are  productive 
of  many  evils.  ^ 

2942.  Moderation  in  eating  and  drinking,  short  hours  of 
labor  and  study,  regularity  in  exercise,  recreation,  and  rest, 
cleanliness,  equanimity  of  temper  and  equality  of  temperature, 
these'  are  the  great  essentials  to  that  which  surpasses  all  wealth, 
health  of  mind  and  body. 


2943.  Bed  Clothes. — The  perfection  of  dress,  for  day  or 
night,  where  warmth  is  the  purpose,  is  that  which  confines 
around  the  body  sufficient  of  its  own  warmth,  while  it  allows 
escape  to  the  exhalations  of  the  skin. 


2944.  Where  the  body  is  allowed  to  bathe  protractedly  in 
its  own  vapors,  we  must  expect  an  unhealthy  effect  upon  the 
skin.  

2945.  Where  there  is  too  little  ventilating  escape,  insensible 
perspiration  is  checked,  and  something  analogous  to  fever 
supervenes  ;  foul  tongue,  ill  taste,  and  lack  of  morning  appe- 
tite betray  the  evil.  

2946.  Early  Bising. — Dr.  Wilson  Philip,  in  his  "Treatise 
on  Indigestion,"  says  :  "Although  it  is  of  consequence  to  the 
debilitated  to  go  early  to  bed,  there  are  few  things  more  hurt- 
ful to  them  than  remaining  in  it  too  long." 


PRESERVATION    OP    HEALTH.  53T 

294T.  Getting  up  an  honr  or  two  earlier,  often  gives  a 
degree  of  vigor  which  nothing  else  can  procure. 

2948.  For  those  who  are  not  much  debilitated,  and  sleep 
well,  the  best  rule  is  to  get  out  of  bed  soon  after  waking  in 
the  morning.  

2949.  This  at  first  may  appear  too  early,  for  the  debilitated 
require  more  sleep  than  the  healthy ;  but  rising  early  will 
gradually  prolong  the  sleep  on  the  succeeding  night,  till  the 
quantity  the  patient  enjoys  is  equal  to  his  demand  for  it. 


.  2950.  Lying  late  is  not  only  hurtful,  by  the  relaxation  it 
occasions,  but  also  by  occupying  that  part  of  the  day  at  which* 
exercise  is  most  beneficial. 


2951.  The  difference  between  rising  every  morning  at  six 
and  at  eight,  in  the  course  of  forty  years,  amounts  to  29,200 
hours,  or  three  years  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  days  and 
sixteen  hours,  which  are  equal  to  eight  hours  a  day  for  exactly 
ten  years. 

2952.  Thus,  rising  at  six  will  be  the  same  as  if  ten  years  of 
life  (a  weighty  consideration)  were  added,  wherein  we  may 
command  eight  hours  every  day  for  the  cultivation  of  our 
minds  and  the  dispatch  of  business. 


2953.  Development  of  the  Lungs. — Much  has  been  said  and 
written  upon  diet,  eating  and  drinking,  but  I  do  not  recollect 
ever  noticing  a  remark  in  any  writer  upon  breathing,  or  the 
manner  of  breathing.  Multitudes,  and  especially  ladies  in  easy 
circumstances,  contract  a  vicious  and  destructive  mode  of 
breathing.  

2954.  They  suppress  their  breathing,  and  contract  the  habit 
of  short,  quick  breathing,  not  carrying  the  breath  half  way 
down  the  chest,  and  scarcely  expanding  the  lower  portions  of 
the  chest  at  all.  

2955.  Lacing  the  bottom  of  the  chest  also  greatly  increases 
this  evil,  and  confirms  a  bad  habit  of  breathing.  Children 
that  move  about  a  great  deal  in   the  open  air^  and  in  no  way 


538  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

laced,  breathe  deep  and  full  to  the  bottom  of  the  chest,  and 

every  part  of  it.  , 

2956.  So  also  with  most  out-door  laborers,  and  persons  who 
take  much  exercise  in  the  open  air,  because  the  lungs  give  us 
the  power  of  action  ;  and  the  more  exercise  we  take,  especially 
out  of  doors,  the  larger  the  lungs  become,  and  are  the  less 
liable  to  disease.  

295^1.  In  all  occupations  that  require  standing,  keep  the 
person  straight.  

2958.  If  at  table,  let  it  be  high  ;  raised  up  nearly  to  the 
armpits,  so  as  not  to  require  you  to  stoop  ;  you  will  find  the 
employment  much  easier — not  one  half  so  fatiguing ;  whilst 
the  form  of  the  chest  and  symmetry  of  the  figure  will  remain 
perfect. , 


BATHS,  &c. 

(see  pages  124  AND   125.) 

2959.  Water  is  the  means  of  personal  purification.  Use  it 
freely.  ^____ 

2960.  Bathing. — If  to  preserve  health  be  to  save  medical 
expenses,  without  even  reckoning  upon  time  and  comfort,  there 
is  no  part  of  the  household  arrangement  so  important  to  the 
domestic  economist  as  cheap  convenience  for  personal  ablution. 


2961.  Whoever  fits  up  a  bath  in  a  house  already  built,  must 
be  guided  by  circumstances  ;  but  it  will  always  be  proper  to 
place  it  as  near  the  kitchen  fire-place  as  possible. 


2962.  From  thence  it  may  be  heated,  or  at  least  have  its 
temperature  preserved  by  means  of  hot  air  through  tubes,  or 
by  steam  prepared  by  the  culinary  fire-place,  without  interfer- 
ing with  its  ordinary  uses. 


2963.  A  small  boiler  may  be  erected  at  a  very  small  expense, 
in  the  bath-room,  where  circum&tances,  do  not  permit  these 
arrangements. 


BATHma.  539 

2964.  Whenever  a  bath  is  wanted  at  a  short  warning,  to 
boil  the  water  necessary  will  always  be  the  shortest  mode ;  but 
where  it  is  in  general  daily  use,  the  heating  the  water  by  steam 
will  be  found  the  cheapest  and  most  convenient  method. 


2965.  Bathing  tubs  should  never  be  left  with  water  in  them 
that  has  been  used.  Let  off  the  water,  and  keep  them  dry  as 
possible.  

2966.  A  hand-bath  i^  always  to  be  had  when  tegular  bath- 
ing is  not  convenient.  With  a  piece  of  sponge  or  an  extra 
towel  to  wash  with,  your  ablutions  may  b^  well  performed 
every  day.  

296  iT.  Tepid  water,  or  even  quite  warm  water,  will  greatly 
refresh  the  system  after  violent  fatigue  ;  but  if  a  warm  bath  is 
taken,  do  not  stay  in  it  over  ten  minutes — indeed  Jive  minutes 
is  long  enough.  

2968.  Jn  cold  bathing  it  should  never  be  forgotten  that 
every  thing  depends  upon, the  general  power  of  the  individual, 
the  state  of  the  system,  especially  of  the  skin,  at  the  moment 
of  immersion,  and  the  season  of  the  year. 


2969.  If  the  reaction  does  not  speedily  take  place,  means 
must  be  employed  to  insure  its  so  doing,  or  the  use  of  the  cold 
bath  must  be  abandoned. 


2910.  Delicate  and  feeble  persons  of  all  ages  require  a 
higher  temperature  of  the  bath,  and  a  shorter  stay  in  it  than 
others.  

29T1.  No  person  should  bathe  immediately  after  a  full  meal, 
particularly  if  there  be  an  apoplectic  tendency. 


2912.  For  a  person  in  good  health,  early  in  the  morning  is 
the  best  time  to  bathe ;  for  one  more  delicate,  from  two  to 
three  hours  after  breakfast  is  preferable. 


2913.  Never  think  of  undressing  and  going  into  the  water 
when  greatly  fatigued,  or  when  the  skin  is  covered  with  per- 
spiration. 


540  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

2974.  In  most  cases  moderate  exercise  is  advantageous 
before  bathing,  but  not  exercise  of  a  violent  kind. 

29T5.  Hints  about  Children, — The  attempt  to  harden  chil- 
dren by  exposure  to  too  great  a  degree  of  cold,  is  of  the  most 
injurious  nature.  

2976.  For  infants  and  young  children,  it  is  ciear  that  water 
of  a  lower  temperature  than  what  feels  cool  to  the  hand  of 
the  nurse  should  be  used ;  but  not  cold  water. 


2977.   Cold  bathing  either  produces  acute  diseases  of  the 
lungs,  which  are  then  very  sensible  to  external  impressions,  or 
'disease  of  the  digestive  organs,  leading  to  disease  of  the  me- 
senteric glands,  scrofula,  water  in  the  brain,  or,  if  they  survive 
a  few  years,  to  early  consumption. 


2978.    Wet  the  Head. — It  is  a  good  rule  to  wet  the  head 
before  taking  a  plunge  or  a  bath. 


2979.   *'  Cleanliness  is  next  to^  godliness,"  is  a  maxim  of 
Christian  philosophy. 


2980.  Exercise. — Exercise  in  the  open  air  is  of  the  first 
importance  to  the  human  frame,  yet  how  many  are  in  a  manner 
deprived  of  it  by  their  own  want  of  management  of  their 
time ! 

2981.  Women  with  slender  means  are  for  the  most  part  des- 
tined to  in-door  occupations,  and  have  but  little  time  allotted 
ttem  for  taking  the  air,  and  that  little  time  is  generally  sadly 
encroached  upon  by  the  ceremony  of  dressing  to  go  out. 


2982.  Whereas,  if  all  were  in  readiness,  the  preparations 
might  be  accomplished  in  a  few  minutes,  the  walk  not  being 
curtailed  by  unnecessary  delays. 


2983.  It  may  appear  a  simple  suggestion,  but  experience 
only  will  show  how  much  time  might  be  redeemed  by  habits 
of  regularity  ;  such  as  putting  the  shawls,  cloaks,  gloves,  shoes, 
&c.,  &c.,  or  whatever  is  intended  to  be  worn,  in  readiness,  in- 


PRESBRYATION  OF  HEALTH.  541 

stead  of  having  to  search  one  drawer,  then  another,  for  possi- 
bly a  glove  or  collar — wait  for  shoes  being  cleaned,  &c. — and 
this  when  (probably)  the  out-going  persons  have  to  return  to 
their  employment  at  a  given  time. 


2984.  Three  principal  points  in  the  manner  of  taking  exer- 
cise are  necessary  to  be  attended  to  : — 1.  The  kind  of  exercise. 
2.  The  proper  time  for  exercisQ.     3.  The  duration  of  it. 


2985.  With  respect  to  the  kinds  of  exercise,  the  various 
species  of  it  may  be  divided  into  active  and  passive.  Among 
the  first,  which  admits  of  being  considerably  diversified,  may 
be  enumerated,  walking,  running,  leaping,  swimming,  riding, 
fencing,  the  military  exercise,  different  sorts  of  athletic 
games,  &c.  

2986.  Among  the  latter,  or  passive  kinds  of  exercise,  may 
be  comprised  riding  in  a  carriage,  sailing,  friction,  swing- 
ing, &c. 

2987.  The  first,  or  active  exercises,  are  more  beneficial  to 
youth,  to  the  middle-aged,  to  the  robust  in  general,  and  par- 
ticularly to  the  corpulent  and  the  plethoric. 


2988.  The  second  or  passive  kinds  of  exercise,  on  the  con- 
trary, are  better  calculated  for  children ;  old,  dry,  and  ema- 
ciated persons  of  a  delicate  and  debilitated  constitution ;  and 
particularly  to  the  asthmatic  and  consumptive. 


2989.  The  time  at  which  exercise  is  most  proper,  depends 
on  such  a  variety  of  concurrent  circumstances,  that  it  does  not 
admit  of  being  regulated  by  any  general  rules,  and  must  there- 
fore be  collected  from  the  observations  made  on  the  effects 
of  air,  food,  drink,  &c. 


2990.  With  respect  to  the  duration  of  exercise,  there  are 
other  particulars,  relative  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  of  fa- 
tigue attending  the  different  species  and  utility  of  it  in  certain 
states  of  the  mind  and  body,  which  must  determine  this  con- 
sideration as  well  as  the  preceding. 


2991.  That  exercise  is  to  be  preferred  which,  with  a  view 


542  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

to  brace  and  strengthen  the  body,  we  are  most  accustomed  to, 
as  any  unusual  one  may  be  attended  with  a  contrary  effect. 


2992.  Exercise  should  be  begun  and   finished   gradually, 
never  abruptly. 

2993.  Exercise  in  the  open  air  has  many  advantages  over 
that  used  within  doors. 


2994.  To  continue  exercise  until  a  profuse  perspiration  or 
a  great  degree  of  weariness  takes  place,  is  far  from  being 
wholesome.  

2995.  In  the  forenoon,  when  the  stomach  is  not  too  much 
distended,  muscular  motion  is  both  agreeable  and  healthful ; 
it  strengthens  digestion,  and  heats  the  body  less  than  with  a 
fall  stomach ;  and  a  good  appetite  after  it  is  a  proof  that  it 
has  not  been  carried  to  excess. 


2996.  But,  at  the  same  time,  it  should  be  understood,  that 
it  is  not  advisable  to  take  violent  exercise  immediately  before 
a  meal,  as  digestion  might  thereby  be  retarded. 


2991.  Neither  should  we  sit  down  to  a  substantial  dinner 
or  supper  immediately  on  returning  from  a  fatiguing  walk,  at 
a  time  when  the  blood  is  heated,  and  the  body  in  a  state  of 
perspiration  from  previous  exertion,  as  the  worst  consequences 
may  arise,  especially  where  cooling  dishes,  salad,  or  a  glass 
of  cold  drink  is  begun  with. 


2998.  Exercise  is  always  hurtful  after  meals,  from  its  im- 
peding digestion,  by  propelling  those  fluids  too  much  toward 
the  surface  of  the  body  which  are  designed  for  the  solution  of 
the  food  in  the  stomach. 


2999.  Climate, — The  action  of  medicines  is  modified  by 
climate  and  seasons.  In  summer,  certain  medicines  act  more 
powerfully  than  in  winter,  and  the  same  person  cannot  bear 
the  dose  in  July  that  he  could  in  December. 


3000.  General  Eealth, — Persons  w^hose  general  health  is 


ADMINISTRATION  OP  MEDICINE.  548 

good,  bear  stronger  doses  than  the  debilitated  and  those  who 
have  suffered  for  a  time. 


3001.  Idiosyncrasy. — Walker  will  inform  you  that  this  long 
term  means  a  peculiar  temperament  or  disposition  not  common 
to  people  generally.  

3002.  For  example,  some  persons  cannot  take  calomel  In 
the  smallest  dose  without  being  salivated,  or  rhubarb  without 
having  convulsions  ;  others  cannot  take  squills,  opium,  senna, 
&c.,  therefore  it  is  wrong  to  insist  upon  their  taking  the«e 
medicines.  

3003.  Forms  best  suited  for  Administration.-— Fluids  aot 
quicker  than  solids,  and  powders  sooner  than  pills. 


3004.  Best  method  of  Preventing  the  Nauseous  Taste  of 
Medicine. — Castor  oil  may  be  taken  in  milk,  coffee,  or  spirits 
such  as  brandy ;  but  the  best  method  of  covering  the  nauseous 
flavor,  is  to  put  a  table-spoonful  of  strained  orange-juice  in  a 
wine-glass,  pour  the  castor  oil  into  the  centre  of  the  juice,  and 
then  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  upon  the  top  of  the 
oil.  

3005.  Cod-liver  oil  may  be  taken,  like  castor  oil,  in  orange- 
juice.  

3006.  Peppermint  water  almost  prevents  the  nauseous  taste 
of  Epsom  salts  ;  a  strong  solution  of  extract  of  liquorice  covers 
the  disagreeable  taste  of  aloes  ;  milk,  that  of  cinchona  bark ; 
and  cloves  that  of  senna. 


3007.  An  excellent  way  to  prevent  the  taste  of  medicines 
is  to  have  the  medicine  in  a  glass,  as  usual,  and  a  tumbler  of 
water  by  the  side  of  it,  then  take  the  medicine  and  retain  it  in 
the  mouth,  which  should  be  kept  closed,  and  if  you  then  com- 
mence drinking  the  water,  the  taste  of  the  medicine  is  washed 
away.  

3008.  Even  the  bitterness  of  quinine  and  aloes  may  be 
prevented  by  this  means. 


644  MRS.  hale's  receipts   for  the  million. 

3009.  Giving  Medicine  to  Persons. — Medicines  should  be 
given  in  such  a  manner  that  the  effect  of  the  first  dose  should 
not  have  ceased  when  the  next  dose  is  given,  therefore  the  in- 
tervals between  the  doses  should  be  regulated  accordingly. 


3010.  Doses  of  Medicine  for  different  Ages. — It  must  be 
plain  to  every  one  that  children  do  not  require  such  powerful 
medicine  as  adults  or  old  people. 


3011.  Be  careful  to  give  the  least  possible  dose  that  will 
have  effect.  The  less  medicine  swallowed,  the  better  for  the 
patient. 

>  

TERMS  EXPRESSING  THE  PROPERTIES 
OP  MEDICINES. 

3012.  These  terms  or  names  should  be  carefully  remembered, 
and  their  explanations. 


3013.  Absorbents  are  medicines  which  destroy  acidities  in 
the  stomach  and  bowels,  such  as  magnesia,  prepared  chalk,  &c. 


3014.  Alteratives  are  medicines  which  restore  health  to  the 
constitution,  without  producing  any  sensible  effect,  such  as 
sarsaparilla,  sulphur,  &c. 


3015.  Analeptics  are  medicines  that  restore  the  strength 
which  has  been  lost  by  sickness,  such  as  gentian,  bark,  &c. 

3016.  Anodynes  are  medicines  which  relieve  pain,  and  they 
are  divided  into  three  kinds,  paregorics^  hypnotics^  and  nar- 
cotics (see  these  terms)  ;  camphor  is  anodyne  as  well  as  narcotic. 


301T.  Antacids  are  medicines  which  destroy  acidity,  such  as 
lime,  magnesia,  soda,  &c. 


3018.   Antalkalies  are  medicines  given  to  neutralize  alka- 
lies in  the  system,  such  as  citric,  nitric,  or  sulphuric  acids,  &c. 


3019.  Anthelmintics  are  medicines  used  to  expel  and  destroy 
worms  from  the  stomach  and  intestines,  such  as  turpentine, 
cowhage,  male  fern,  &c. 


TERMS    EXPRESSING    THE    PROPERTIES    OF    MEDICINES.  545 

3020.  Antibilious  are  medicines  which  are  useful  in  bilious 
affections,  such  as  calomel,  &c. 


3021.  Antirheumatics  are  medicines  used  for  the  cure  of 
rheumatism,  such  as  colchicum,  iodide  of  potassium,  &c. 


3022.  Antiscorbutics  are  medicines  against  scurvy,  such  as 
citric  acid,  &c.  

3023.  Antiseptics   are  substances  used  to  correct  putrefac- 
tion, such  as  bark,  camphor,  &c. 


3024.  Antispasmodics    are    medicines   which    possess    the 
power  of  overcoming  spasms  of  the  muscles,  or  allaying  severe^ 
pain  from  any  cause  unconnected  with   inflammation,  such  as 
valerian,  ammonia,  &c. 


3025,  Aperients    are    medicines  which    move    the    bowels 
gently,  such  as  dandelion  root,  &c. 


3026.  Aromatics  are  cordial,  spicy,  and  agreeably-flavored 
medicines,  such  as  cardamoms,  cinnamon,  &c. 


302Y.  Astringents  are  medicines  which  contract  the  fibres 
of  the  body,  diminish  excessive  discharges,  and  act  indirectly 
as  tonics,  such  as  oak-bark,  galls,  &c. 


3028.  Attenuants  are  medicines  which  are  supposed  to  thin 
the  blood,  such  as  ammoniated  iron,  &c. 


3029.  Balsamics  are  medicines  of  a  soothing  kind,  such  as 
Tolu,  Peruvian  balsam,  &c. 


3030.  Carminatives  are  medicines  which  allay  pain  in  the 
stomach  and  bowels,  and  expel  flatulence,  such  as  aniseed- 
water,  &c.  

3031.  Cathartics  are  strong  purgative  medicines,  such  as 
jalap,  &c.  

3032.  Cordials  are  exhilarating  and  warming  medicines, 
such  as  aromatic  confections,  &c. 

35 


546  MRS.    HALE^S     RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

3033.   Corroborants  are  medicines  and  food  which  increase 
the  strength,  such  as  iron,  gentian,  sago,  &c. 


3034.  Demulcents  correct  acrimony,  diminish  irritation,  and 
soften  parts  by  covering  their  surfaces  with  a  mild  and  viscid 
matter,  such  as  linseed  tea,  &c. 


^  3035.  Deobstruents  are  medicines  which  remove  obstruc- 
tions, such  as  iodide  of  potash,  &c. 


3036.  Detergents  clean  the  surfaces  over  which  they  pass, 
such  as  soap.  

3037.  Diaphoretics  produce  perspiration,  such  as  tartrate 
of  antimony,  &c.  

3038.  Digestives  are  remedies  applied  to  ulcers  or  wounds, 
to  promote  the  formation  of  matter,  such  as  resin  ointments, 
warm  poultices,  &c.  

3039.  Discutients  possess  the  power  of  repelling  or  resolv- 
ing tumors,  such  as  galbanum,  &c. 

3040.  D'iuretics  act  upon  the  kidneys  and  bladder,  and  in- 
crease the  flow  of  urine,  such  as  nitre,  squills,  &c. 


3041.  Drastics  are  violent  purgatives,  such  as  gamboge,  &c. 


3042.  Emetics  produce  vomiting,  or  the  discharge  of  the 
contents  of  the  stomach,  such  as  mustard,  tartar  emetic,  warm 
water,  bloodroot,  &c.  

3043.  Emollients  are  remedies  used  externally  to  soften  the 
parts  they  are  applied  to,  such  as  spermaceti,  palm  oil,  &c. 


3044.  Epispastics  are  medicines  which  blister  or  cause  effu- 
sion of  serum  under  the  cuticle,  such  as  Spanish  flies,  &c. 


3045.  Errhines  are  medicines  which  produce  sneezing,  such 
as  tobacco,  &c.  

3046.  Escharotics  are  medicines  which  corrode  or  destroy 


TERMS   EXPRESSING   THE   PROPERTIES   OF   MEDICINES.  54T 

the  vitality  of  the  part  to  which  they  are  applied,  such  as 
lunar  caustic,  &c.  

304T.  Expectorants  are  medicines  which  increase-expectora- 
tion, or  the  discharge  from  the  bronchial  tubes,  such  as  ipeca- 
cuanha, &c.  

3048.  Febrifuges  are  remedies  used  in  fevers,  such  as  anti- 
monial  wines,  &c.  

3049.  Hydragogues  are  medicines  which  have  the  effect  of 
removing  the  fluid  of  dropsy,  by  producing  water  evacuations, 
such  as  gamboge,  calomel,  &c. 


3050.  Hypnotics  are  medicines  that  relieve  pain  by  procur- 
ing sleep,  such  as  hops,  &c. 

3051.  Laxatives  are  medicines  which  cause  the  bowels  to 
act  rather  more  than  natural,  such  as  manna,  &c. 


3052.  ^N'arcotics  are  medicines  which  cause  sleep  or  stupor, 
and  allay  pain,  such  as  opium,  &c. 


3053.  Nutrients  are  remedies  that  nourish  the  body,  such 
as  sugar,  sago,  &c.  

3054.  Paregorics    are    medicines  which    actually   assuage 
pain,  such  as  compound  tincture  of  camphor,  &c. 


3055.  Prophylactics  are  remedies  employed  to  prevent  the 
attack  of  any  particular  disease,  such  as  quinine,  &c. 


3056.  Purgatives  are  medicines  that  promote  the  evacuation 
of  the  bowels,  such  as  senna,  &c. 


'    3051.  Refrigerants  are  medicines  which  suppress  an   unu- 
sual heat  of  the  body,  such  as  wood-sorrel,  tamarinds. 


3058.  Rubefacients  are  medicaments  which  cause  redness  of 
the  skin,  such  as  mustard,  &c. 


3059.  Sedatives  are  medicines  which  depress  the  nervous 


548  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

energy,  and  destroy  sensation,  so  as  to  compose,  such  as  fox- 
glove, &e.  

3060.  Sialagogues  are  medicines  which  promote  the  flow 
o£  saliva  or  spittle,  such  as  salt,  calomel,  &c. 


3061.  Soporifics  are  medicines  which  induce  sleep,  such  as 
hops,  &c.  

3062,  Stimulants  are  remedies  which  increase  the  action  of 
the  heart  and  arteries,  or  the  energy  of  the  part  to  which  they 
are  applied,  such  as  sassafras,  which  is  an  iaternal  stimulant, 
and  savine,  which  is  an  external  one. 


3*063.  Stomachics  restore  the  tone  of  the  stomach,  such  as 
gentian,  &c.  . 

3064.  Styptics  are  medicines  which  constrict  the  surface  of 
a  part,  and  prevent  the  effusion  of  blood,  such  as  kino,  &c. 


3065.  Sudorifics  promote  profuse  perspiration  or  sweating, 
such  as  ipecacuanha,  &c. 


3066.  Tonics  give  general  strength  to  the  constitution,  re- 
store the  natural  energies,  and  improve  the  tone  of  the  sys- 
tem, such  as  chamomile,  &c. 


306t.  Vesicants  are  medicines  which  blister,  such  as  strong 
liquid  ammonia,  &c.  

3068.  Lotions,  &c. — Lotions  are  usually  applied  to  the  parts 
required,  by  means  of  a  piece  of  linen  rag  wetted  with  them, 
or  by  wetting  the  bandage  itself. 


3069.  Emollient, — Use  decoction  of  marsh-mallow  or  lin- 
seed. .  

30Y0.  Elder-flowers, — Add  two  drachms  and  a  half  of 
elder-flowers  to  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  infuse  for  one  hour, 
and  strain.      Use  as  a  discutient. 


30 tl.   Sedative. — Dissolve  one  drachm  of  extract  of  hen- 
bane in  twenty-four  drachms  of  water. 


OINTMENTS    AND    CERATES  549 

30 Y 2.  Opium. — Mix  two  drachms  of  bruised  opium  with  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  allow  it  to  grow  cold,  and  use  for 
painful  ulcers,  bruises,  &c. 


301^3.  Decoctions, — These  preparations  soon  spoil,  and 
therefore  should  only  be  made  in  small  quantities,  particularly 
in  summer.  

30Y4.  Of  Chimaphila, — Take  one  ounce  of  pyrola,  (chima- 
phila  or  winter-green)  and  boil  it  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water 
until  it  is  only  one  pint;  then  strain. 


3015.  Dose,  ffora  one  to  two  ounces,  four  times  a  day.    Use 
in  dropsies,  as  a  diuretic. 


3016.  Of  Logwood. — Boil  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  bruised 
logwood  in  two  pints  of  water  until  it  comes  to  one  pint;  then 
add  one  drachm  of  bruised  cassia,  and  strain. 


30tT.  Dose  J  from  one  to  two  ounces.    Use  as  an  astringent. 


3078.  Of  Dandelion. — Take  two  ounces  of  the  freshly- 
sliced  root,  and  boil  in  two  pints  of  water  until  it  comes  to 
one  pint ;  then  add  one  ounce  of  compound  tincture  of  horse- 
raddish.  _____ 

3079.  Dose, .from  two  to  four  ounces.  Use  in  a  sluggish 
state  of  the  liver. 


OINTMENTS   AND   CERATES. 

3080.  These  remedies  are  used  as  topical  applications  to 
parts,  generally  ulcers,  and  are  usually  spread  upon  linen  or 
other  materials.  

3081.  Camphorated. — Mix  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  with 
one  ounce  of  lard,  having,  of  course,  previously  powdered  the 
camphor.  

3082.  Used  as  a  discutient  and  stimulant  in  indolent  tumors. 


•s 


550  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

3083.    Chalk. — Mix  as  much  prepared  chalk  as  you  can  into 
some  lard,  so  as  to  form  a  thick  ointment. 


3084.  Use  as  an  application  to  burns  and  scalds. 


3085.  For  Itch.-^M.ix  four  drachms  of  sublimed  sulphur, 
two  ounces  of  lard,  and  two  drachms  of  sulphuric  acid  to- 
gether.    This  is  to  be  rubbed  into  the  body. 

3086.  For  Scrofulous  Ulcerations. — Mix  one  drachm  of 
ioduret  of  zinc  and  one  ounce  of  lard  together. 


3081.  Use  twice  a  day  in  the  ulcerations. 


EMBROCATIONS   AND   LINIMENTS. 

3088.  These  remedies  are  used  externally  as  local  stimulants, 
to  relieve  deep-seated  inflammations  when  other  means  cannot 
be  employed,  as  they  are  more  easily  applied  locally. 


3089.  Liniments  are  to  be  rubbed  on  the  skin  as  the  patient 
can  bear.  _^ 

3090.  Anodyne  and  Discutient. — Take  two  drachms  of 
scraped  white  soap,  half  a  drachm  of  extract  of  henbane,  and 
dissolve  them  by  a  gentle  heat  in  six  ounces  of  olive  oil. 


3091.  Used  in  doses  of  two  or  three  drachms  at  a  time,  for 
glandular  enlargements  which  are  painful  and  stubborn. 


3092.  Strong  Ammoniated. — Add  one  ounce  of  strongliquid 
ammonia  (Liquoris  ammomce  fortis)  to  two  ounces  of  olive 
oil ;  shake  them  well  together  until  they  are  properly  mixed. 

3093.  Use — employed  as  a  stimulant  in  rheumatic  pains, 
paralytic  numbness,  chronic  glandular  enlargements,  lumbago, 
sciatica,  &c.  

3094.  Compound  Ammoniated. — Add  six  teaspoonsful  of 
oil  of  turpentine  to  the  strong  ammoniated  liniment  above. 

3095.  Use  for  the  diseases  mentioned  under  the  head  of 


-  f 

strong  ammoniated  liniment,  and  chronic  affections  of  the  knee 
and  ankle-joints. 

3096.  Lime  and  Oil. — Take  equal  parts  of  common  linseed 
oil  and  lime-water  {Liquor  calcis)^  and  shake  well. 


3097.  Use,  applied  to  burns,  scalds,  sun-peelings,  &c. 


3098.   Camphorated. — Take  half  an  ounce  of  camphor,  and 
dissolve  it  in  two  ounces  of  olive  oil. 


3099.  Use  as  a  stimulant^  soothing  application  in  stubborn 
breasts,  glandular  enlargements,  dropsy  of  the  belly,  and  rheu- 
matic pains.  _____ 

3100.  Soap  Liniment  with  Spanish  Flies. — Take  three 
ounces  and  a  half  of  soap-liniment,  and  half  an  ounce  of  tinc- 
ture of  Spanish  flies  :  mix  and  shake  well. 

3101.  Use  as  a  stimulant  to  chronic  bruises,  spraing^  rhett- 
inatic  pains,  and  indolent  3Wellirigs. 


3102.  Turpentine, — Take  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  resin 
cerate  (ceratum  rcsinGs)^  and  melt  it  by  standing  the  vessel  in 
hot  water  ;  then  add  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  oil  of  turpentine, 
and  mix.  *  

3103.  Use  as  a  stimulant  application  to  ulcers,  burns, 
scalds,  &c. 


ENEMAS 

3104.  Are  a  peculiar  kind  of  medicine,  administered  by  in- 
jecting them  into  the  rectum  or  outlet  of  the  body. 


3105.  The  intention  is  either  to  empty  the  bowels,  kill 
worms,  protect  the  lining  membrane  of  the  intestines  from 
injury,  restrain  copious  discharges,  allay  spasms  in  the  bowels, 
or  nourish  the  body.  These  clysters,  or  glysters,  are  adminis- 
tered by  means  of  bladders  and  pipes,  or  a  proper  apparatus. 

3106.  Laxative. — Take  two  ounces  of  Epsom  salts,  and 


552  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

dissolve  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  gruel,  or  thin  broth,  with 
an  ounce  of  olive  oil.     Use  as  all  enemas  are  used. 


31 OY.   Nutritive, — Take  twelve  ounces  of  strong  beef  tea, 
and  thicken  with  hartshorn  shavino;s  or  arrow-root. 


3108.  Turpentine. — Take  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  turpentine, 
the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  half  a  pint  of  gruel. 

3109.  Mix  the  turpentine  and  o^gg,  and  then  add  the  gruel. 
Use  as  an  anthelmintic. 


3110.  Common. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  salt  in  twelve 
ounces  of  gruel.  

3111.  Castor  Oil. — Mix  two  ounces  of  castor  oil  with  one 
drachm  of  starch,  then  rub  them  together,  and  add  fourteen 
ounces  of  thin  gruel.  

3112.  Use — purgative. 


3113.   Opium. — Rub  two  grains  of  opium  with  two  ounces 
of  starch,  then  add  two  ounc<3s  of  warm  water. 


3114.  Use  as  an  anodyne,  in  colic,  spasms,  &c. 

3115.  Oil. — Mix  four  ounces  of  olive  oil  with  half  an  ounco 
of  mucilage  and  half  a  pint  of  warm  water. 


3116.  Use  as  a  demulcent. 


3117.  Assafoetida. — Dissolve  two  drachms  of  the  gum  in  a 
pint  of  barley-water.  

3118.  Used  in  convulsions  from  teething. 


3119.   Gargles.— See  pages  lOt,  245,  and  246. 


3120.  Extracts  are  made  by  evaporating  the  liquors  obtained 
by  infusion  or  decoction,  but  these  can  be  bought  much 
cheaper  and  better  of  chemists  and  druggists,  and  so  can  tinc- 
tures, confections,  cerates,  plasters,  and  syrups. 


rouLTicES.  553 

3121.  Method  of  Ascertaining  the  State  of  the  Lungs, — Per- 
sons desirous  of  ascertaining  the  true  state  of  their  lungs,  are 
directed  to  draw  in  as  much  breath  as  they  conveniently  can  ; 
they  are  then  to  count  as  far  as  they  are  able,  in  a  slow  and 
audible  voice,  without  drawing  in  more  breath. 


3122.  The  number  of  seconds  they  can  continue  counting 
must  be  carefully  observed ;  in  a  consumption  the  time  does 
not  exceed  ten,  and  is  frequently  less  than  six  seconds;  in 
pleurisy  and  pneumonia  it  ranges  from  nine  to  four  seconds. 
When  the  lungs  are  in  a  sound  condition,  the  time  will  range 
as  high  as  from  twenty  to  thirty-five  seconds. 

3123.  Appetite. — Appetite  is  frequently  lost  through  exces- 
sive use  of  stimulants,  food  taken  too  hot,  sedentary  occupa- 
tion, Gostiveness,  liver  disorder,  and  want  of  change  of  air. 
The  first  endeavor  should  be  to  ascertain  and  remove  the 
cause.  

3124.  Change  of  diet,  and  change  of  air,  will  frequently  be 
found  more  beneficial  than  medicines. 


3125.  Bile,  Bilious  or  Liver  Complaints. — Abstinence  from 
malt  liquors,  cool  homoeopathic  cocoa  for  drink,  no  tea  or  coffee, 
few  vegetables,  and  little  bread ;  bacon  in  a  morning,  and  well- 
cooked  fresh  animal  food  once  a  day. 


3126.  One  common  cause  of  putrid  and  malignant  fevers  is 
the  want  of  cleanliness. 


POULTICES. 
[see  pages  112,  113,  AND  230,  231.] 

3121.  Poultices  should  be  applied  as  hot  as  the  patient  can 
bear.     Cold  poultices  do  no  good  ;  remove  them. 

3128.  Apple  Poultice. — Apples  pared,  cored  and  well 
boiled,  theft  well  washed  into  a  pulp,  form  a  very  good 
poultice.  

3129.  Starch. Poultice. — Starch,,any  quantity  ;  thicken  with 
boiling  water.     When  a  little  cool,  stir  in  a  little  lard  or  oil. 


554  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

3130.  Slippery  Elm  Poultice. — Take  slippery  elm  in  pow- 
der, and  mix  with  water  until  somewhat  thick,  then  boil  it  a 
few  minutes.     It  is  to  be  applied  warm. 


3131.  Yeast  Poultice, — Wheat  flour,  one  pound ;  yeast, 
half  a  pint.  Mix  them  together  over  a  gentle  heat  until  the 
mixture  begins  to  rise,  then  apply  warm. 


3132.  Ilustard  Poultice. — Flour  of  mustard,  one  part ;  flax- 
seed meal,  one  part.  Make  into  a  paste  with  water.  A  little 
oil  or  lard  shoulcj^be  added  to  prevent  its  sticking. 

3133.  Poultice  made  of  Hops. — Boil  a  handful  of  hops  for 
a  few  minutes  in  a  pint  of  water,  in  a  covered  vessel,  squeeze 
out  the  juice  and  strain.  This  liquor  is  now  to  be  put  again 
on  the  fire  and  thickened  with  Indian  meal,  and  a  little  lard 
added  as  it  becomes  cool. 


3134.    Spice   Poultice. — Cinnamon,    allspice,    cloves,    and 
ginger,  of  each  equal  quantities  ;  honey  or  molasses  to  mix. 


3135.  Alum  Poultice. — Put  the  white  of  a  couple  of  eggs 
into  a  plate,  and  then  with  a  piece  of  alum  between  the  thumb 
and  finger  stir  it  into  a  curd. 


3136.   Ginger  Poultice. — Wet  flannel  in  hot  vinegar  and 
sprinkle  on  ground  ginger — good  for  toothache. 


313t.  Hot  Water. — In  bruises,  hot  water  is  most  efficacious, 
both  by  means  of  insertion  and  fomentation,  in  removing  pain, 
and  totally  preventing  discoloration  and  stiffness.  It  has  the 
same  effect  after  a  blow.  It  should  be  applied  as  quickly  as 
possible,  and  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne. 


3138.  Insertion  in  hot  water  will  cure  that  troublesome 
and  fearful  thing  called  a  whitlow. 


3139.  The  efficacy  of  hot  water  in  preventing  the  ill  effects 
of  fatigue  is  too  well  known  to  require  notice. 

3140.  Blisters.— See  pages  113  and  3U. 


PLASTERS,    ETC.  555 

3141.  Plasters,  Cerates,  etc. — See  page  238. 


3142.  Food  for  the  Sick.— See  page  230,  &c. 


3143.  Fevers  and  Remedies, — See  pages  111,  112. 


3144.  Mucilage  of  Oura  Arabic. — Kub  one  ouncaof  gum 
arable  in  a  mortar,  with  four  ounces  of  warm  water.  Use  for 
for  coughs,  &c. 

3145.  Mucilage  of  Starch. — Kub  one  drachm  of  starch  with 
a  little  water,  and  gradually  add  five  ounces  of  water,  then 
boil  until  it  forms  a  mucilkge. 

3146.  Use  for  enemas,  topical  application  and  demulcent. 


3141,   Cutaneous    Eruptions. — The   following   mixture   is 
very  useful  in  all  cutaneous  eruptions: 


3148.  Ipecacuanha  wine,  four  drachms;  flowers  of  sulphur, 
two  drachms  ;  tincture  of  cardamoms,  one  ounce.     Mix. 

3149.  Dose-^one  teaspoonful  to  be  taken  three  times  a  day, 
in  a  wine-glassful  of  water.  (See  page  232.) 


3150.  Small  Pox  Marks. — Long  observation  has  convinced 
me  that  nothing  so  effectually  removes  these  disfigurements  as 
gently  rubbing  the  face  with  a  soft  towel  immediately  after 
washing.  This  practice,  which  is  free  from  the  objections 
which  may  be  made  against  external  applications  (\vhich  are 
usually  violent  irritants),  quickens  the  circulation  of  the  blood, 
producing  exfoliation  and  the  formation  of  new  tissues,  and  at 
the  same  time  restoring  to  the  cheek  its  healthy  color,  which 
is  generally  lost  by  confluent  small-pox. — Dr.  Cox. 


3151.  Mental  and  bodily  exercise  are  equally  essential  to  the 
general  health  and  happiness. 


3152.  Therefore,  labor  and  study  should  succeed  each  other. 


3153.  Man  will  Uve'most  healthily  upon  simple  solids  and 


556  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

fluids,  of  which  a  sufficient  but  temperate  quantity  should  be 
taken. 

3154.  Therefore,  strong  drinks,  tobacco,  snuff,  opium,  and 
all  mere  iuduTo-ences  should  be  avoided. 


SPECIAL    RULES    FOR    THE    PREVENTION    OP 
CHOLERA. 

3155.  We  urge  the  necessity,  in  all  cases  of  cholera,  of  an 
instant  recourse  to  medical  aid. 


3156.  Also  under  every  form  and  variety  of  indisposition : 
for  all  disorders  are  found  to  merge  in  the  dominant  disease. 


3151.  Let  immediate  relief  be  sought  under  disorder  of  the 
bowels  especially,  however  slight.  The  invasion  of  cholera 
may  thus  be  readily  prevented. 


3158.  Let  every  impurity,  animal  and  vegetable,  be  quickly 
removed  to  a  distance  from  the  habitations,  such  as  slaughter- 
houses, pig-sties,  cesspools,  necessaries,  and  all  other  domestic 
nuisances.  

3159.  Let  all  uncovered  drains  be  carefully  and  frequently 
cleansed.  

3160.  Let  the  grounds  in  and  around  the  habitations  be 
drained,  so  as  effectually  to  carry  off  moisture  of  every  kind. 


3161.  Let  all  partitions  be  removed  from  within  and  with- 
out habitations,  which  unnecessarily  impede  ventilation. 


3162.  Let  every  room  be  daily  thrown  open  for  the  admis- 
sion of  fresh  air ;  this  should  be  done  about  noon,  when  the 
atmosphere  is  most  likely  to  be  dry. 

3163.  Let  dry  scrubbing  be  used  in  domestic  cleansing  in 
place  of  water  cleansing. 


SPECIAL   RULES   FOR.  THE   PREVENTIOX    OF    CHOLERA.  55 1 

3164.  Let  excessive  fatigue,   and  exposure  to  damp  and 
cold,  especially  during  the  night,  be  avoided. 

3165.  Let  the  use  of  cold  drinks  and  acid  liquors,  especially 
under  fatigue,  be  avoided,  or  when  the  body  is  heated. 


3166.  Let  the   use  of  cold  acid  fruits  and  vegetables  oe 
avoided.  

3161.  Let  excess  in  the  use  of  ardent  and  fermented  liquors 
and  tobacco  be  avoided. 


3168.  Let  a  poor  diet,  and  the  use  of  impure  water  in  cook- 
ing, or  for  drinking,  be  avoided. 


3169.  Let  the  wearing  of  wet  and  insufficient  clothes  be 
avoided.  

3170.  Let  a  flannel  or  woolen  belt  be  worn  round  the  person. 

31  n.  Let  personal  cleanliness  be  carefully  observed. 

3172.  Let  every  cause  tending  to  depress  the  moral  and 
physical  energies  be  carefully  avoided.  Let  exposure  to 
extremes  of  heat  and  cold  be  avoided. 


3173.  Let  crowding  of  persons  within  houses  and  apart- 
ments be  avoided.  

3174.  Let  sleeping  in  low  or  damp  rooms  be  avoided. 


3175.  Let  fires  be  kept  up  during  the  night  in  sleeping  or 
adjoining  apartments,  the  night  being  the  period  of  most  dan- 
ger from  attack,  especially  under  exposure  to  cold  or  damp. 


3176.  Let  all  bedding  and  clothing  be  daily  exposed  during 
winter  and  spring  to  the  fire,  and  in  summer  to  the  heat  of  the 
Bun.  

3177.  Let  the  dead- be  buried  in  places  remote  from  the 
habitation  of  the  living. 


558  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million-. 

31T8.  By  the  timely  adoption  of  simple  means  such  as 
these,  cholera  or  other  epidemics  will  be  made  to  lose  its 
venom. 


RULES  FOR  A  SICK  ROOM. 
3119.   See  pages  236  and  237. 


3180.  Keep  the  patient,  and  all  about  him,  perfectly  clean  ; 
and  secure,  as  far  as  possible,  pure  air. 


3181.  The  chamber  should  be  ventilated  at  least  once  a  day, 
or  twice  if  it  can  be  borne. 


3182.  The  bed  clothes  should  be  carried  out  into  the  open 
air,  if  it  is  dry,  if  not,  into  the  next  room ;  and  if  the  patient 
is  unable  to  sit  up  meanwhile,  let  them  be  supplied  by  others. 

3183.  Keep  the  room  quiet,  and  in  perfect  order. 

3184.  Let  the  sick  be  addressed  in  a  gentle  voice,  and  the 
conversation,  if  any  is  admitted,  be  pleasant  and  cheering. 

3185.  The  nurse  and  friends  should  express  sympathy  with 
the  sufferer,  but  at  the  same  time  seek  to  inspire  courage,  and 
patience  to  endure.  

3186.  All  vials  and  powders  should  be  labeled,  to  prevent 
fatal  mistakes.  

318T.  The  beds  should  be  made  at  least  once  a  day,  and  if 
the  patient  can  bear  it,  twice.  Carry  the  beds  out  into  the 
open  air,  or  if  damp,  into  another  room. 


3188.  Keep  ^e  skin  clean  by  daily  ablutions :  change  the 
garments  frequently,  and  rinse  the  mouth  often. 


3189.  A  nurse  should  be  of  a  pleasant,  agreeable,  persua- 
sive, and  even  temper,  with  great  patience  to  bear  with  the 
whims  and  unreasonable  fretfalness  that  often  appear  in  the 
sick. 


RULES   FOR   A   SICK   ROOM.  559 

3190.  Never  dispute  with  a  very  sick  person,  nor  reprove 
him  for  any  seeming  inconsistency.  Remember  that  he  is 
scarcely  a  responsible  being. 


3191.  To  prevent  Pitting  after  Small-Pox, — Spread  a 
sheet  of  thin  leather  with  the  ointment  of  ammoniacum  with 
mercury,  and  cut  out  a  place  for  the  mouth,  eyes,  and  nostrils. 


3192.  This  forms  what  is  called  a  mask,  and  after  anointing 
the  eye-lids  with  a  little  blue  ointment  (unguentum  hydrar- 
gyri),  it  should  be  applied  to  the  face,  and  allowed  to  remain 
for  three  days  for  the  distinct  kind,  and  four  days  for  the  run- 
ning variety.     Period  to  apply  it  : 


3193.  Before  the  spots  fill  with  matter,  although  it  will 
answer  sometimes  even  after  they  have  become  pustulous.  It 
may  be  applied  to  any  part  in  the  same  way. 


3194.  Precautions  to  be  Observed  in  giving  Medicines, — 
Sex. — Medicines  for  females  should  not  be  so  strong  as  those 
for  males,  therefore  it  is  advisable  to  reduce  the  doses  about 
one-eighth. 


3195.  Temperament — Persons  of  a  phlegmatic  tempera- 
ment bear  stimulants  and  purgatives  better  than  those  of  a 
sanguine  temperament ;  therefore  the  latter  require  smaller 
doses. 


3196.  Habits. — Purgatives  never  act  so  well  upon  persons 
accustomed  to  take  them,  as  upon  those  who  are  not ;  there- 
fore it  is  better  to  change  the  form  of  purgative  from  pill  to 
potion,  powder  to  draught,  or  aromatic  to  saline.  Purgatives 
should  never  be  given  when  there  is  an  irritable  state  of  the 
bowels. 


319t.  Stimulants  and  narcotics  never  act  so  quickly  upon 
persons  accustomed  to  use  spirits  freely  as  upon  those  who 
live  abstemiously. 


560  MRS.  hale's   receipts   for  the  million. 


DOMESTIC    SURGERY. 

3198.  This  will  comprise  such  hints  and~  advice  as  will  en- 
able any  one  to  act  on  an  emergency,  or  in  ordinary  trivial 
accidents  requiring  simple  treatment ;  and  also  to  distinguish 
between  serious  and  simple  accidents,  and  the  best  means  to 
adopt  in  all  cases  that  are  likely  to  fall  under  a  person's 
notice.  

3199*  These  hints  will  be  of  the  utmost  value  to  the  heads 
of  families,  to  emigrants,  and  to  persons  who  are  frequently 
called  upon  to  attend  upon  the  sick. 


3200.  We  strongly  recommend  the  parent,  emigrant  or  nurse 
to  read  over  these  directions  occasionally,  to  regard  it  as  a 
duty,  to  do  so  at  least  three  or  four  times  a  year,  so  as  to  be 
prepared  for  emergencies  whenever  they  may  arise. 


3201.  When  accidents  occur,  people  are  too  excited  to  ac- 
quire immediately  a  knowledge  of  what  they  should  do  ;  and 
many  lives  have  been  lost  for  want  of  this  knowledge. 


3202.  Study,  therefore,  at  moderate  intervals,  the  domestic 
surgery,  treatment  of  poisons,  rules  for  the  prevention  of  ac- 
cidents, how  to  escape  from  fires,  &c.,  which  will  be  found  in 
various  pages  of  this  book. 


3203.  Let  it  be  impressed  upon  your  mind  that  the  Index 
will  enable  you  to  refer  to  any  thing  you  may  require  in  a 
moment.  

3204.  Dressings  are  substances  usually  applied  to  parts 
for  the  purpose  of  soothing,  promoting  their  reunion  when 
divided,  protecting  them  from  external  injuries,  as  a  means  of 
applying  various  medicines,  to  absorb  discharges,  protect  the 
surrounding  parts,  and  securing  cleanliness. 


3205.  Certain  instruments  are  required  for  the  application 
of  dressings  in  domestic  surgery,  viz. — Scissors,  a  pair  of 
tweezers,  or  simple  forceps,  a  knife,  needles  and  thread,  a  razor, 
a  lancet,  a  piece  of  lunar  caustic  in  a  quill,  and  a  sponge. 


DOMESTIC    SURGERY.  561 

8206.  The  materials  required  for  dressings,  consist  of  lint, 
scraped  linen,  carded  cotton,  tow,  ointment  spread  on  calico, 
adhesive  plaster,  compresses,  pads,  poultices,  old  rags  of  linen 
or  calico,  and  water.  

o20t.  The  following  rules  should  be  attended  to  in  apply- 
ing dressings.  Always  prepare  the  new  dressings  before 
removing  the  old  ones.         

3208.  Always  have  hot  and  cold  water  at  hand,  and  2^ 
vessel  to  place  the  foul  dressings  in. 


3209.  Have  one  or  more  persons  at  hand  ready  to  assist, 
and  tell  each  person  what  they  are  to  do  before  you  commence, 
it  prevents  confusion;  thus,  one  is  to  wash  out  and  hand  the 
sponges,  another  to  heat  the  adhesive  plaster,  or  hand  the 
bandages  and  dressings,  and,  if  requisite,  a  third  to  support 
the  limb,  &c. 

3210.  Always  stand  on  the  outside  of  a  limb  to  dress  it- 
Place  the  patient  in  as  easy  a  position  as  possible,  so  as  not 
to  fatigue  him.  Arrange  the  bed  qf'ier  changing  the  dress- 
ings, but  in  some  cases  you  will  have  to  do  so  before  the  pa- 
tient is  placed  on  it.  *  =» 

3211.  Never  be  in  a  hurry  when  applying  dressings,  do  it 
quietly.  When  a  patient  requires  moving  from  one  bed  to 
another,  the  best  wa.y  is  for  one  person  to  stand  on  each  side 
of  the  patient,  and  each  to  place  an  arm  behind  his  back, 
while  he  passes  bis  arms  over  their  necks ;  then  let  their  other 
arms  be  passed  under  his  thighs,  and  by  holding  each  other's 
hands,  the  patient  can  be  raised  with  ease,  and  removed  to 
another  bed- 

3212.  If  the  leg  is  injured,  a  third  person  sliould  steady  it, 
and  if  the  arm,  the  same  precaution  should  be  adopted. 


3213.  Sometimes  a  stout  sheet  is  passed  under  the  patient, 
and  by  several  people  holding  the  sides,  the  patient  is  lifted 
without  any  fatigue  or  much  disturbance. 


3214.  Lint  may  be  made  in  a  hurry,  by  nailing  the  corners 
36 


562  MRS.  halk's  receipts  for  the  million. 

of  a  piece  of  old  linen  to  a  board,  and   scraping  its  surface 
with  a  knife.     It  is  used  either  alone  or  spread  with  ointment. 

3215.  Scraped  lint  is  the  fine  filaments  from  ordinary  lint, 
and  is  used  to  stimulate  ulcers  and  absorb  discharges ;  it  is 
what  the  French  call  charpie. 

3216.  Scraped  lint  is  made  into  various  shapes,  for  particu- 
lar purposes.  

321T.  For  example,  when  it  is  screwed  up  into  a  conical  or 
wedge-like  shape,  it  is  called  a  tenty  and  is  used  to  dilate  fis- 
tulous openings,  so  as  to  allow  the  matter  to  escape  freely,  to 
plug  wounds,  so  as  to  promote  the  formation  of  a  clot  of 
blood,  and  thus  arrest  bleeding. 

3218.  When  it  is  rolled  into  little  balls  they  are  called  hou- 
letteSj  and  are  used  for  absorbing  matter  in  cavities,  or  blood 
in  wounds.  ^ 

3219.  Carded  cotton  is  used  as  a  dressing  for  superficial 
•  burns,  and  care  should  be  taken  to  free  it  from  specks,  as  flies 

are  apt  to  lay  their  eggs  there,  and  generate  maggots. 

3220.  Tow  is  chiefly  employed  as  a  padding  for  splints,  as 
compresses,  and  also  as  an  outer  dressing  where  there  is  much 
discharore  from  a  surface. 


3221.  Ointments  are  spread  on  calicoes,  lint,  or  even  thin 
layers  of  tow  by  means  of  a  knife ;  they  should  not  be  spread 
too  thick.  

3222.  Adhesive  plaster  is  cut  into  strips,  ranging  in  width 
according,  to  the  nature  of  the  wound,  &c.,  but  the  usual  width 
is  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch. 

3223.  Isinglass  plaster  is  not  so  irritating  as  diachylon,  and 
is  more  easily  removed. 


3224.   Compresses  are  made  of  pieces  of  linen,  calico,  lint, 
or  tow,  doubled  or  cut  into  various  shapes. 


BANDAGES.  563 

3225.  They  are  used  to  confine  dressings  in  their  places, 
and  to  apply  an  equal  pressure  on  parts. 


3226.  They  should  be  free  from  darns^  hems,  and  knots. 

322t.  Ordinary  compresses  are  square,  oblong,  and  trian- 
gular.   

3228.  The  pierced  compress  is  made  by  folding  up  a  square 
piece  of  linen  five  or  six  times  on  itself,  and  then  nicking  the 
surface  with  scissors,  so  as  to  cut  out  small  pieces. 


3229.  It  is  then  opened  out,  and  spread  with  ointment. 


3230.  It  is  applied  to  discharging  surfaces,  for  the  purpose 
of  allowing  the  matter  to  pass  freely  through  the  holes,  and  is 
frequently  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  tow. 

3231.  Compresses  are  also  made  in  the  shape  of  a  Maltese 
cross,  and  half  a  cross,  sometimes  split  singly,  and  at  other 
times  doubly :  or  they  are  graduated  by  placing  square  pieces 
of  folded  cloth  on  one  another,  so  arranged  that  they  decrease 
in  size  each  time.  

3232.  They  are  used  for  keeping  up  pressure  upon  certain 
parts.  

3233.  Pads  are  made  by  sewing  tow  inside  pieces  of  linen, 
or  folding  linen  and  sewing  the  pieces  together.  They  are 
used  to  keep  off  pressure  from  parts,  such  as  that  caused  by 
splints  in  fractures. 


BANDAGES. 

3234.  Bandages  are  strips  of  calico,  linen,  flannel,  muslin,  elas- 
tic webbing,  bunting,  or  some  other  substance,  of  various  lengths, 
such  as  three,  four,  eight,  ten,  or  twelve  yards,  and  one,  one 
and  a-half,  two,  two  and  a-half,  three,  four,  or  six  inches  wide, 
free  from  hems  or  darns  ;  soft  and  unglazed. 


3235.  They  are  better  after  they  have  been  washed. 


564  MRS.  hale's  receipts   for  the  million. 

3236.  Bandages  are  simple  and  coraponnd  ;  the  fcH'raer  are 
simple  slips  rolled  up  tightly  like  a  roll  of  ribbon. 


323t.   Ttiere  is  also  another  simple. kind  which  is  rolled  from 
both  ends — this  is  called  a  double-headed  bandage. 


3238.  The  compound  bandages  are  formed  of  many  pieces. 


3239.  Bandages  for  the  head  should  be  two  inches  wide  and 
five  yards  long;  for  the  neck,  two  inches  wide' and  three  yards 
long;  for  the  arm,  two  inches  wide  and  seven  yards  long  ;  for 
the  leg,  two  inches  and  a  half  wide  and  seven  yards  long  ;  for 
the  thigh,  three  inches  wide  and  eight  yards  long  ;  and  for  the 
body,  four  or  six  inches  wide  and  ten  or  twelve  yards  long. 


3240.  To  apply  a  single-headed  bandage,  lay  the  outside  of 
the  end  next  to  the  part  to  be  bandaged,  and  to  hold  the  roll 
between  the  little,  ring,  and  middle  hngers  and  the  palm  of 
the  left  hand,  using  the  thumb  and  fore-finger  of  the  same 
hand  to  guide  it,  and  the  right  hand  to  keep  it  firm,  and  pass 
the  bandage  partly  round  the  leg  toward  the  left  hand. 


3241.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  reverse  this  order,  and 
therefore  it  is  well  to  be  able  to  use  both  hands. 


3242.  Circular  bandages  are  used  for  the  neckj  to  retain 
dressings  on.  any  part  of  it,  or  for  blisters,  setons,  &c.;  for  the* 
head  J  to  keep  dressings  on  the  forehead  or  any  part  contained 
within  a  circle  passing  round  the  head ;  for  the  arm,  previous 
to  bleeding;  for  the  /e^,  above  the  knee;  and  for  the^n- 
gerSj  &c.  

3243.  To  confine  the  ends  of  bandages  some  persons  use 
pins,  others  slit  the  end  for  a  short  distance,  and  tie  the 
two  strips  into  a  knot,  and  some  use  a  strip  of  adhesive 
plaster.  

3244.  Always  place  the  point  of  a  pin  in  such  a  position 
that  it  should  not  be  likely  to  prick  the  patient,  or  the  person 
dressing  the  limb,  or  be  likely  to  draw  out  by  using  the  limb  : 
therefore,  as  a  general  rule,  turn  the  head  of  the  pin  from  the 
free  end  of  the  bandage,  or  toward  the  upper  part  of  the  limb 


BANDAGflS.  565 

S245.  The  oblique  bandage  is  generally  used  for  arms  and 
legs,  to  retain  dressings 

3246.  The  spiral  bandage  is  generally  applied  to  the  trunk 
and  extremities,  but  it  is  apt  to  fall  off  even  when  very  care- 
fnlly  applied  ;  therefore  we  generally  use  another  called  the 
recurrent,  which  folds  back  again. 

3241.  T\\Q  recurrent  bandage  is  the  best  kind  of  bandage 
that  we  can  employ  for  general  purposes. 


3248.   The  circular  bandage  is  formed  by  horizontal  turns, 
each  of  which  overlaps  the  one  made  before  it. 


3249.  The  spiral  consists  of  spiral  turns. 


3250.  The  oblique  follows  a  course  oblique  or  slanting  to 
the  centre  of  the  limb.  ^__ 

3251.  The  recurrent  folds  back  again  to  the  part  whence 
it  started.  

3252.  A  bandage  for  the  chest  is  always  placed  upon  the 
patient  in  a  sitting  posture  ;  and  it  may  be  put  on  in  circles 
or  spirally,  

3253.  Use,  in  fractures  of  the  ribs,  to  retain  dressings,  and 
after  severe  contusions. 

3254.  A  bandage  for  the  belly  is  placed  on  the  patient  as 
directed  in  the  last ;  if  spirally,  carrying  it  from  above  down- 
ward.   

3255.  Use,  to  compress  the  belly  after  dropsy,  or  retain 
dressings.  _^ 

3256.  The  hand  is  bandaged  by  crossing  the  bandage  over 
the  back  of  the  hand.  

3257.  Use,  to  retain  dressings. 


3258.  For  the  head,  a  bandage  may  be  circular,  or  spiral 


566  MRS.    HALE'S    receipts    for    TH32    MILLION. 

or  both ;  in  the  latter  case,  commence  by  placing  one  circular 
turn  just  over  the  ears ;  then  bring  diDvvn  from  left  to  right, 
and  round  the  head  again,  so  as  to  alternate  a  spiral  with  a 
circular  turn.  

3259.  Use,  to  retain  dressings  on  the  head  or  over  the  eye ; 
but  this  form  soon  gets  slack.  The  circular  bandage  is  the 
best,  crossing  it  over  both  eyes. 


3260.  For  the  Foot. — Place  the  end  just  above  the  outer 
ankle,  and  make  two  circular  turns,  to  prevent  its  slipping ; 
then  bring  it  down  from  the  inside  of  the  foot  over  the  instep 
toward  the  outer  part ;  pass  it  under  the  sole  of  the  foot,  and 
upward  and  inward  over  the  instep  toward  the  inner  ankle, 
then  round  the  ankle,  and  repeat  again. 

3261.  Use,  to  retain  dressings  to  the  instep,  heel  or  ankle. 


3262.  For  the  leg  and  foot,  commence  and  proceed  as 
directed  in  2213 ;  then  continue  it  up  the  leg  as  ordered  in 
3247.  

3263-  As  it  sometimes  happens  that  it  is  necessary  to  apply 
a  bandage  at  once,  and  the  materials  are  not  at  hand,  it  is 
desirable  to  know  how  to  substitute  something  else  that  any 
one  may  apply  with  ease. 


3264.  This  is  found  to  be  effected  by  handkerchiefs,  and  an 
experienced  surgeon  has  paid  great  attention  to  this  subject, 
and  brought  it  to  much  perfection.  It  is  to  him,  therefore, 
tliat  we  are  indebted  for  most  of  these  hints. 


3265.  Any  ordinary  handkerchief  will  do  ;  but  a  square  of 
linen,  folded  into  various  shapes,  answers  better. 


•3266.  The  shapes  generally  required  are  as  follows  : — The 
triangle,  the  long  square,  the  cravat,  and  the  cord. 


326Y.  The  triangular  handkerchief  is  made  by  folding  it 
from  corner  to  corner.    Use,  as  a  bandage  for  the  head. 


BANDAGES.  56T 

3268.  Application. — Place  the  base  round  the  head,  and  the 
short  part  hanging  down  behind,  then  tie  the  long  ends  over  it. 

3269.  The  long-square  is  made  by  folding  the  handkerchief 
into  three  parts,  or  double  it  once  upon  itself. 


32^0.  Use,  as  a  bandage  to  the  ribs,  belly,  &c.     If  one 
handkerchief  is  not  long  enough,  sew  two  together. 


32H.  The  cravat  is  folded  as  usual  with  cravats.  Use,  as 
a  bandage  for  the  head,  arms,  legs,  feet,  neck,  &c. 

3212.  T\iQ  cord  is  used  to  compress  vessels,  when  a  knot  is 
made  in  it,  and  placed  over  the  vessel  to  be  compressed.  It 
is  merely  a  handkerchief  twisted  in  its  long  diameter. 


3213.  Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to  apply  two  or  more 
handkerchiefs,  as  in  a  broken  collar-bone,  or  when  it  is  neces- 
sary to  keep  dressings  under  the  arm. 


3274.  It  is  applied  by  knotting  th«  two  ends  of  one  hand- 
kerchief together,  passing  the  left  arm  through  it,  then  pass- 
ing another  handkerchief  under  the  right  arm,  and  tying  it. 


3275.  By  this  means  we  can  brace  the  shoulders  well  back, 
and  the  handkerchief  will  press  firmly  over  the  broken  collar- 
bone ;  besides,  this  form  of  bandage  does  not  readily  slip  or 
get  slack,  but  it  requires  to  be  combined  with  the  sling,  in 
order  to  keep  the  arm  steady. 


3276.  When  a  woman  has  an  inflamed  breast  that  requires 
support  or  dressings  to  be  kept  to  it,  tie  two  ends  of  the 
handkerchief  round  her  neck,  and  bring  the  body  of  it  over 
the  breast,  and  pass  it  upward  and  backward  under  the  arm 
of  that  side,  and  tie  the  ends  of  those  around  the  neck. 


"3277.  An  excellent  sling  is  formed  by  placing  one  handker- 
chief around  the  neck,  and  knotting  the  two  ends  over  the 
breast-bone,  then  placing  the  other  in  triangle  under  the  arm, 
to  be  supported  with  the  base  near  to  the  hand  ;  tie  the  ends 
over  the  handkerchief,  and  pin  the  top  to  the  other  part  after 
passing  it  around  the  elbow. 


668  MRS.    HALE'S    EECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

32 T 8.  Apparatus. — When  a  person  receives  a  severe  con- 
tusion of  the  leg  or  foot,  or  breaks  his  leg,  or  has  painful 
ulcers  over  the  leg,  or  is  unable  from  some  cause  to  bear  the 
pressure  of  the  bed-clothes,  it  is  advisable  to  know  how  to 
keep  them  from  hurting  the  \eg. 


3279.  This  may  be  done  by  bending  up  a  fire-guard,  or 
placing  a  chair,  resting  upon  the  edge  of  its  back  and  front 
of  the  seat  over  the  leg,  or  putting  a  box  on  each  side  of  it, 
and  placing  a  plank  over  them  ;  but  the  best  way  is  to  ma^ke 
a  cradle,  as  it  is  called. 


3280.  This  is  done  by  getting  three  pieces  of  wood,  and 
three  pieces  of  iron  wire,  and  passing  the  wire  or  hoop  through 
the  wood.  This  can  be  placed  to  any  height,  and  is  very 
useful  in  all  cases  where  pressure  cannot  be  borne. 


3281.  Wooden  hoops  cut  in  halves  answer  better  than  the 
wire.  

3282.  When  a  person  breaks  his  leg,  and  splints  cannot  be 
had  directly,  get  a  bunch  of  straw  or  twigs,  and  roll  it  up  in  a 
handkerchief,  and  place  one  on  each  side  of  the  leg  or  arm,  and 
bind  another  handkerchief  firmly  around  them,  or  make  a  long 
bag  about  three  inches  in  diameter,  or  even  more,  of  coarse 
linen  duck,  or  carpet,  and  stuff  this  full  of  bran,  sawdust,  or 
sand  ;  sew  up  the  end,  and  use  this  the  same  as  the  twigs.  It 
forms  an  excellent  extemporaneous  splint. 


3283.  Another  good  plan  is  to  get  a  hat-box  made  of  chip, 
and  cut  it  into  suitable  lengths,  or  for  want  of  all  these,  some 
bones  out  of  a  pair  of  stays,  and  run  them  through  a  stout 
piece  of  rug,  protecting  the  leg  with  a  fold  of  rug,  linen,  &c. 


3284.  When  dry  warmth  is  required  to  be  applied  to  any 
part  of  the  body,  fry  a  flour  pancake  and  lay  it  over  the  part ; 
or  warm  some  sand  and  place  in  the  patient^s  socks,  and  lay  it 
to  the  part ;  salt  does  as  w^ell,  and  may  be  put  into  a  paper 
bag;  or  warm  water  put  into  ginger-beer  bottles  or  stone  jars, 
and  rolled  up  in  flannel. 


REMEDIES.  5  GO 

3285.    Violent  shocks  will  sometimes  stun  a  person,  and  he 
will  remain  unconscious. 


3286.  Untie  strings,  collars,  &c.;  loose  any  thing  that  is 
tight,  and  interferes  with  the  breathing ;  raise  the  head  ;  see 
if  there  is  bleeding  from  any  part;  apply  smelling-salts  to  the 
nose,  and  hot  bottles  to  the  feet. 


328T.  In  concussion,  the  surface  of  the  body  is  cold  and 
pale,  and  the  pulse  weak  and  small,  the  breathing  slow  and 
gentle,  and  the  pupil  of  the  eye  generally  contracted  or  small. 
You  can  get  an  answer  by  speaking  loud,  so  as  to  arouse  the 
patient.  

3288.  Give  a  little  brandy  and  water,  keep  the  place  quiet, 
apply  warmth,  and  do  not  raise  the  head  too  high.  If  you 
tickle  the  feet,  the  patient  feels  it. 


3289.  In  Compression  of  the  Brain^  from  any  cause,  such 
as  apoplexy,  or  a  piece  of  fractured  bone  pressing  on  it,  there 
is  loss  of  sensation.  If  you  tickle  the  feet,  he  does  not  feel  it. 
You  cannot  arouse  hiA  so  as  to  get  an  answer.  The  pulse  is 
slow  and  labored,  the  breathing  slow,  labored,  and  snorting  ; 
the  pupils  enlarged.  

3290.  Eaise  the  head,  unloose  strings  or  tight  things,  and 
send  for  a  surgeon.  If  one  cannot  be  got  at  once,  apply  mus- 
tard-poultices and  hot  water  to  the  feet,  and  leeches  to  the 
temples  ;  or  cold  water,  which  is  better. 


3291.  Choking. — When  a  person  has  a  fish  bone  in  the 
throat,  insert  the  forefinger,  press  upon  the  root  of  the  tongue, 
so  as  to  induce  vomiting  ;  if  this  does  not  do,  let  them  swallow 
a  large  piece  of  potato  or  soft  bread  ;  and  if  the^e  fail,  give  a 
mustard  or  soap  emetic. 


3292.  Fainting^  Hysterics,  &c. — Loosen  the  garments, 
bathe  the  temples  with  water  or  Eau  de  Cologne  :  fresh  air  ; 
avoid  bustle  and  excessive  sympathy. 


3293.  Ajyj^arent    Death   from  prunkenncss. — E-aise    tho 


5^0  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

head,  unloose  the  clothes,  maintain  warmth  of  surface,  and  give 
a  mustard  emetic  as  soon  as  the  person  can  swallow. 


3294.  Apoplexy,  and  Fits  generally. — Raise  the  head  ;  un- 
loose airtight  clothes,  strings,  &c.;  apply  cold  lotions  to  the 
head  and  cold  water,  and  use  hot  applications  to  the  feet. 
Send  for  a  doctor  as  soon  as  possible. 

3295.  Suffocation  from  noxious  gases,  &c.  Remove  to  the 
fresh  air  :  dash  cold  vinegar  and  water  in  the  face,  neck  and 
breast;  keep  up  the  warmth. of  the  body  ;  if  necessary,  apply 
mustard-poultices  to  the  soles  of  the  feet,  and  try  artificial 
respiration  as  in  drowning. 

3296.  Lightning  and  Sun-stroke. — Treat  the  same  as  apo- 
plexy ;  that  is,  use  plenty  of  cold  water. 

S29^.  Hanging.' — Loose  the  cord,  or  whatever  suspended 
the  person,  and  proceed  as  for  drowning,  taking  the  additional 
precaution  to  apply  eight  or  ten  leeches  to  the  temples,  or 
cold  water. 


LEECHES   AND    THEIR    APPLICATION. 

3298.  The  leech  used  for  medical  purposes  is  called  the 
Hirudo  medicirialis,  to  distinguish  it  from  other  varieties,  such 
as  the  horse-leech  and  the  Lisbon  leech. 


3299.  It  varies  from  two  to  four  inches  in  length,  and  is  of 
a  blackish  brown  color,  marked  on  the  back  with  six  yellow 
spots,  and  edged  with  a  yellow  line  on  each  side. 


3300.  Formerly  leeches  were  supplied  by  Sweden,  but  lat- 
terly most  of  the  leeches  are  procured  from  France,  where 
they  are  now  becoming  scarce. 


3301.  When  leeches  are  applied  to  a  part,  it  should  be 
thoroughly  freed  from  down  or  hair  by  shaving,  and  all  lini- 
ments, &c.,  carefully  and  effectually  cleaned  away  by  washing. 

3302.  If  the  leech  is  hungry  it  will  soon  bite,  but  sometimes 


LEECHES   AND   THEIR   APPLICATION.  5*^1 

great  difficulty  is  experienced  in  getting  them  to  fasten  on. 
tVhen  this  is  the  car^?,  roll  th^  leech  into  a  little  porter,  or 
moisten  the  surface  with  a  little  blood,  or  milk,  or  sugar  and 
-»vater.  

3303.  Leeches  maybe  applied  by  holding  them  over  the  part 
with  a  piece  of  linen  cloth  or  by  means  of  an  inverted  glass, 
under  which  they  must  be  placed. 


3304.  When  applied  to  the  gums,  care  should  be  taken  to 
use  a  leech  glass,  as  they  are  apt  to  creep  down  the  patient's 
throat ;  a  large  swan's  quill  will  answer  the  purpose  of  a  leech 
glass. 

3305.  When  leeches  are  gorged  they  will  drop  off  them- 
selves ;  never  tear  them  off  from  a  person,  but  just  dip  the 
point  of  a  moistened  finger  into  some  salt,  and  touch  them 
with  it.  

3306.  Be  sure  never  to  allow  any  one  to  go  to  sleep  with 
leech  bites  bleeding,  without  watching  them  carefully;  and 
never  apply  too  many  to  children. 


330T.  If  a  leech  is  accidentally  swallowed,  or  by  any  means 
gets  into  the  body,  employ  an  emetic,  or  enema  of  salt  and 
water.  

3308.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  these  disgusting  worms  will 
soon  be  banished  with  the  lancet  from  the  practice. 


3309.  Taking  blood  is  now  conceded,  by  the  best  physi- 
cians, to  be  injurious.  

3310.  *'  The  life  is  the  blood.^^ — Whoever  takes  away  blood, 
'weakens  life. — (See  page  127.) 


3311.  Bruises  and  Injlammation. — Use  warm  water;  bath- 
ings are  better  than  scarifications. 


3312.   Burns  and  Scalds,~(Sce  pages   109,  110.)— Vitriol 
Accidents, — See  page  110. 


572  MRS.  Hale's   EEcEiPts  for  the   milliox. 

3313.  Poisons  and  their  Remedies. —SQe  pages  120,  121, 
122.  ^^ _^ 

3314.  Body  in  Flames. — Lcay  tlie  person  down  on  the  floor 
of  the  room,  and  throw  the  tablecloth,  rug,  or  other  large 
cloth  over  him,  and  roll  him  on  the  floor. 


3315.  Dirt  in  the  Eye. — Place  your  forefinger  upon  the 
cheekbone,  having  the  patient  before  you  ;  then  draw  up  the 
finger  and  you  will  probably  be  able  to  remove  the  dirt ;  but 
if  this  will  not  enable  you  to  get  at  it,  repeat  this  operation 
while  you  have  a  netting-needle  or  bodkin  placed  over  the  eye- 
lid ;  this  will  turn  it  inside  out,  and  enable  you  to  remove  the 
sand,  or  eyelash,  &c.,  with  the  corner  of  a  fine  silk  handker 
chief. 

3316.  As  soon  as  the  substance  is  removed,  bathe  the  e} 
with  w^arm  water  and  exclude  the  light  for  a  day.     If  the  i:*- 
flammation  is  severe,  take  a  purgative  and   use  a  refrigerant 
lotion.  (969.)  

3317.  Lime  in  the  Eye. — Syringe  it  well  with  warm  vinegar 
and  water  (one  ounce  to  eight  ounces  of  water)  j  take  a  pur- 
gative, and  exclude  light. 


3318.  Iron  or  Steel  Spiculcein  the  Eye. — This  occurs  while 
turning  iron  or  steel  in  a  lathe. 

3319.  Drop  a  solution  of  sulphate  of  copper  (from  one  to 
three  grains  of  the  salt  to  one  ounce  of  water)  into  the  eye, 
or  keep  the  eye  open  in  a  wine-glassful  of  the  solution. 


3320.  Take  a  purgative,  bathe  with  cold  lotion,  and  exclude 
light  to  keep  down  inflammation. 


3321.  Dislocated  Thumb. — This  is  frequently  prod  need  by 
a  fall.  Make  a  clove  hitch,  by  passing  two  loops  of  cord  over 
the  thumb,  placing  a  piece  of  rag  under  the  cord  to  prevent 
it  cutting  the  thumb ;  then  pull  in  the  same  line  as  the  thumb. 
Afterward  apply  a  cold  lotion. 

3322.  Cuts  and  Wounds, — Cut    thin    strips    of  sticking- 


HEMORRHAGE.  5T3 

plaster,  and  bring  the  parts  together;  or  if  large  and  deep, 
cat  two  broad  pieces  so  as  to  look  like  the  teeth  of  a  comb, 
and  phice  one  on  each  side  of  the  wound,  which  must  be 
cleaned  previously.  

3323.  Thjse  pieces  must  be  arranged  so  that  they  shall  in- 
terlace one  another ;  then,  by  laying  hold  of  the  pieces  on  the 
right  hand  side  with  one  hand,  and  those  on  the  other  side 
with  the  other  hand,  and  pulling  them  from  one  another,  the 
edges  of  the  wound  are  brought  together,  and  without  any 
difficulty. 

3324.  Hemorrhage,  when  caused  by  an  artery  being  divided 
or  torn,  may  be  known  by  the  \Aoodi  jumping  out  of  the  wound, 
and  being  of  a  bright  scarlet  color. 


3325.  If  a  vein  is  injured,  the  blood  is  darker,  and  flows 
continuously.     To  stop  the  latter,  apply  pressure  by  means  of 

a  compress  and  bandage. 

«  „________ 

3326.  To  arrest  arterial  bleeding,  get  a  piece  of  wood  (part 
of  a  mop-handle  will  do),  and  tie  a  piece  of  tape  to  one  end 
of  it ;  then  tie  a  piece  of  tape  loosely  over  the  arm,  and  pass 
the  other  end  of  the  wood  under  it ;  twist  the  stick  round  and 
round  until  the  tape  compresses  the  arm  sufficiently  to  arrest 
the  bleeding,  and  then  confine  the  other  end  by  tying  the 
string  round  the  arm. 

332([.  If  the  bleeding  is  very  obstinate,  and  it  occurs  in  the 
arm,  place  a  cork  underneath  the  string,  on  the  inside  of  the 
fleshy  part,  where  the  artery  may  be  felt  beating  by  any  one ; 
if  in  the  leg,  place  a  cork  in  the  direction  of  aline  drawn  from 
the  inner  part  of  the  knee  a  little  to  the  outside  of  the  groin. 

3328.  It  is  an  excellent  thing  to  accustom  yourself  to  find 
out  the  position  of  these  arteries,  or  indeed  any  that  are  superfi- 
cial, and  to  explain  to  everyone  in  your  house  where  they  are, 
and  how  to  stop  bleeding. 

3329.  If  a  stick  cannot  be  got,  take  a  handkerchief,  make  a  cord 
bandage  of  it,  and  tie  a  knot  in  the  middle  ;  the  knot  acts  as  a 


5*14  MRS.  hale's  beceipts  for  thb  million. 

compress,  and  should  be  placed  over  the  artery,  while  the  two 
ends  are  to  be  tied  around  the  thumb. 


3330.  Observe  always  to  place  the  ligature  between  the  wound 
and  the  heart  

3331.  Putting  your  finger  into  a  bleeding  'wound,  and 
making  pressure  until  a  surgeon  arrives,  will  generally  stop 
violent  bleeding.  

3332.  Bleeding  from  the  nose,  from  whatever  cause,  may 
generally  be  stopped  by  putting  a  plug  of  lint  into  the  nos- 
trils—See  pp.  95-6.  _____ 

3333.  In  dangerous  accidents  always  send  off  for  a  surgeon 
immediately  an  accident  occurs,  but  treat  as  directed  until  he 
arrives,  

3334.  Accidents. — See  page  94. 


RICHES. 

3335.  **  The  way  to  wealth,'^  says  Doctor  Franklin,  "  is  as 
plain  as  the  way  to  market." 


3336.  Many  men,  however,  either  miss  the  way,  or  stumble 
and  fall  on  the  road.  . 

333Y.  Fortune,  they  say,  is  a  fickle  dame — full  of  her  freaks 
and  caprices ;  who  blindly  distributes  her  favors  without  the 
slightest  discrimination.  So  inconstant,  so  wavering  is  she 
represented,  that  her  most  faithful  votaries  can  place  no  reli- 
ance on  her  promises.  

3338.  Disappointment,  they  tell  us,  is  the  lot  of  those  who 
make  offerings  at  her  shrine.  Now,  all  this  is  a  vile  slander 
upon  the  dear' blind  lady. 


3339.  Although  wealth  often  appears  the  result  of  mere 
accident,  or  a  fortunate  concurrence  of  favorable  circum- 
stances, without  any  exertion  of  skill  or  foresight,  yet  every 


RICHES.  5*J5 

man  of  sound  health  and  unimpaired  mind  may  become,  wealthy, 
if  he  takes  the  proper  steps. 


3340.  Foremost  in  the  list  of  requisites,  are  honesty  and 
strict  integrity  in  every  transaction  of  life.  Let  a  man  have 
the  reputation  of  being  fair  and  upright  in  his  dealings,  and 
he  will  possess  the  confidence  of  all  who  know  him. 


3341.  Without  these  qualities,  every  other  merit  will  prove 
unavailing.  Ask  concerning  a  man,  ''Is  he  active  and  ca- 
pable.?'^ Yes.  *'  Industrious,  temperate,  and  regular  in  his 
habits  ?'^     0  yes. 

3342.  "  Is  he  honest  ?  is  he  trustworthy  V^  Why,  as  to 
that,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  he  is  not  to  be  trusted ;  he  wants 
watching ;  he  is  a  little  tricky,  and  will  take  aii  undue  advan- 
tage, if  he  can.  

3343.  *'  Then  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  him:"  will  be 
the  invariable  reply.  

3344.  In  a  word,  it  is  almost  impossible  for  a  dishonest 
man  to  acquire  wealth  by  a  regular  process  of  business,  be- 
cause he  is  shunned  as  a  depredator  upon  society. 


3345.  Needy  men  are  apt  to  deviate  from  the  rule  of  integ- 
rity, under  the  plea  that  necessity  knows  no  law  ;  they  might 
as  well  add  that  it  knows  no  shame. 


3346.  The  course  is  suicidal,  and  by  destroying  all  confi- 
dence, ever  keeps  them  immured  in  poverty,  although  they  may 
possess  every  other  quality  for  success  in  the  world. 


334Y.  Punctuality,  which  is  said  to  be  the  soul  of  business, 
is  another  important  element  in  the  art  of  money-getting. 


3348.  Therefore  be  prompt  in  your  payments. 


3349.  Next,  let  us  consider  the  advantages  of  a  cautious 
circumspection  in  our  intercourse  with  the  world.  Slowness 
of  belief,  and  a  proper  distrust  are  essential  to  success. 


5T6  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for   the  million. 

3350.  The  credulous  and  confiding  are  ever  the  dupes  of 
knaves  and  impostors.  Ask  those  who  have  lost  their  pro- 
perty how  it  happened,  and  you  will  find  in  most  cases  it  has 
been  owing  to  misplaced  confidence. 


3351.  One  has  lost  by  endorsing;  another  by  crediting; 
another  by  false  representations ;  all  of  which  a  little  more 
foresight  and  a  little  more  distrust  would  have  prevented. 


3352.  In  the  affairs  of  this  world,  men  are  not  saved  by 
faith,  but  by  the  want  of  it. 


3353.  Judge   of  men  by  what  they  do,  not  by  what  they 
say.     Believe  in  looks  rather  than  in  words. 


3354.  Before  trusting  a  man,  before  putting  it  in  his  power 
to  cause  you  a  loss,  possess  yourself  of  every  available  inform- 
ation relative  to  him. 

3355.  Learn  his  history,  his  habits,  inclinations  and  pro- 
pensities; his  reputation  for  honesty,  industry,  frugality,  and 
punctuality  ;  his  prospects,  resources,  supports,  advantages 
and  disadvantages;  his  intentions  and  motives  of  action;  who 
are  his  friends  and  enemies,  and  w^hat  are  his  good  or  bad 
qualities. 

3356.  You  may  learn  a  man's  good  qualities  and  advantages 
from  his  friends — his  bad  qualities  and  disadvantages  from  his 
enemies.     Make  due  allowance  for  exaggeration  in  both. 


335Y.  Finally,  examine  carefully  before  engaging  in  any 
thing,  and  act  with  energy  afterward.  Have  the  hundred 
eyes  of  Argus  beforehand,  and  the  hundred  hands  of  Briareus 
afterward. 

3358.  Order  and  system  in  the  management  of  business 
must  not  be  neglected.    Nothing  contributes  more  to  dispatch. 


3359.  Do  first  what  presses  most,  and  having  determined 
what  is  to  be  done,  and  how  it  is  to  be  done,  lose  no  time  in 
doing  it     Without  this  method,  all  is  hurry  and  confusion, 


INDUSTRY.  6  "It 

little  or  nothing  is  accomplished,  and  business  is  attended  to 
with  neither  pleasure  nor  profit. 


3360.  A  polite,  affable  deportment  is  recommended. 


3361.  Take  two  men,  possessing  equal  advantages  in  every 
other  respect,  but  let  one  be  gentlemanly,  kind,  obliging,  and 
conciliating  in  his  manners ;  the  other  harsh,  rude,  and  dis- 
obliging, and  the  one  will  become  rich,  while  the  other  will 
starve.  

3362.  Industry. — We  are  now  to  consider  a  very  important 
principle  in  the  business  of  money-getting,  namely — Industry 
— persevering,  indefatigable,  attention  to  business. 


8363.  Persevering  diligence  is  the  philosopher's  stone,  w^hich 
turns  every  thing  to  gold.  Constant,  regular,  habitual,  and 
systematic  application  to  business  must,  in  time,  if  properly 
directed,  produce  great  results. 


3364.  It  must  lead  to  wealth,  with  the  same  certainty  that 
poverty  follows  in  the  train  of  idleness  and  inattention. 


3365.  It  has  been  truly  remarked,  that  he  who  follows  his 
amusements  instead  of  his  business,  will,  in  a  short  time,  have 
no  business  to  follow. 

3366.  The  art  of  money-saving  is  an  important  part  of  the 
art  of  money-getting.  Without  frugality,  no  one  can  become 
rich ;  with  it,  few  would  be  poor.  Those  who  consume  as  fast 
as  they  produce,  are  oij^  the  road  to  ruin. 


3367.  jfs  most  of  the  poverty  we  meet  with  grows  out  of 
idleness  and  extravagance,  so  most  large  fortunes  have  been 
the  result  of  habitual  industry  and  frugality. 


3368.  The  practice  of  economy  is  as  necessary  in  the  ex- 
penditure of  time  as  of  money.  They  say  that  if  ''  we  take 
care  of  the  pence,  the  pounds  will  take  care  of  themselves. '^ 
So,  if  we  take  care  of  the  minutes,  the  days  will  take  care  of 
themselves. 

3t 


5T8  ^iR^-  bale's   receipts   for   the   MILLIOj*. 

3669.  Away,  then,  with  your  expensive  follies,  and  you  will 
not  then  have  so  much  cause  to  complain  of  hard  times,  heavy 
taxes,  and  chargeable  families. 


3310.  Many,  for  the  sake  of  finery  on  the  back,  have  gone 
with  a  hungry  stomach,  and  half  starved  their  families. 

3311.  The  acquisition  of  wealth  demands  as  much  self- 
denial,  and  as  many  sacrifices  of  present  gratification,  as  the 
practice  of  virtue  itself. 


33Y2.  Vice  and  poverty  proceed,  in  some  degree,  from  the 
same  sources,  namely — the  disposition  to  sacrifice  the  future 
to  the  present ;  the  inability  to  forego  a  small  present  pleasure 
for  great  future  advantages. 


3313.  Men  fail  of  fortune  in  this  world,  as  they  fail  of  hap- 
piness in  the  world  to  come,  simply  because  they  are  unwilling 
to  deny  themselves  momentary  enjoyments  for  the  sake  of  per- 
manent future  happiness. 


3374.  Every  large  city  is  filled  with  persons,  who,  in  order 
to  support  the  appearance  of  wealth,  constantly  live  beyond 
their  income,  and  make  up  the  deficiency  by  contracting  debts 
which  are  never  paid.  

3315.  Others  there  are,  the  mere  drones  of  society,  who  pass 
their  days  in  idleness,  and  subsist  by  pirating  on  the  hives  of 
the  industrious.  

3316.  Many  who  run  a  short-lived  career  of  splendid  beg- 
gary, could  they  but  be  persuaded  to  adopt  a  system  of  rigid 
economy  for  a  few  years,  might  pass  the  remaitfder  of  their 
days  in  affluence. 

3317.  But  no  I  They  must  keep  up  appearances^  they  must 
live  like  other  folks.  

3318.  Their  debts  accumulate;  their  credit  fails ;  they  are 
harassed  by  duns,  and  besieged  by  constables  and  sheriffs. 


3319.  In  this  extremity,  as  a  last  resort,  they  submit  to  a 


HERO   IN   BUSINESS    LIFE.  5t9 

shameful  dependence,  or  engage  in  criminal  practices,  which 
entail  hopeless  wretchedness  and  infamy  on  themselves  and 
families.  

3380.  Stick  to  the  business  in  which  you  are  regularly 
employed.  Let  speculators  make  their  thousands  in  a  year 
or  a  day ;  mind  your  own  regular  trade,  never  turning  from  it 
to  the  right  hand  or  to  the  left. 

3381.  If  you  are  a  merchant,  a  professional  man,  or  a 
mechanic,  never  buy  lots  or  stocks  unless  you  have  surplus 
money  which  you  wish  to  invest.  Your  own  business  you 
understand  as  well  as  other  men;  but  other  people^s  business 
you  do  not  understand. 


3382.  Let  your  business  be  some  one  which  is  useful  to  the 
community.  All  such  occupations  possess  the  elements  of 
profit  in  themselves.  

3383.  To  the  foregoing  advice  we  add  the  description  of  the 
hero  in  business  life.  

3384.  A  sacred  regard  to  the  principles  of  justice  forms  the 
basis  of  every  transaction,  and  regulates  the  conduct  of  the  up- 
right man  of  business.  

3385.  He  is  strict  in  keeping  his  engagements. 


3386.  Does  nothing  carelessly  or  in  a  hurry. 


338Y.  Employs  nobody  to  do  what  he  can  easily  do  himself. 


3388.  Keeps  every  thing  in  its  proper  place. 


3389.  Leaves  nothing  undone  that  ought  to  be  done,  and 
which  circumstances  permit  him  to  do. 


3390.  Keeps  his  designs  and  business  from  the  view  of 
others.  

3391.  Is  prompt  and  decisive  with  his  customers,  and  docs 
not  overtrade  his  capital. 


580  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

3392.  Prefers  short  credits  to  long  ones  ;  and  cash  to  credit 
at  all  times,  either  in  buying  or  selling ;  and  small  profits  in 
credit  cases  with  little  risk,  to  the' chance  of  better  gains  with 
more  hazard.  ^ 

3393.  He  is  clear  and  explicit  in  all  his  bargains. 


3394.  Leaves  nothing  of  consequence  to  memory  which  he 
can  and  ought  to  commit  to  writing. 


3395.  Keeps  copies  of  all  his  important  letters  which  he 
sends  away,  and  has  every  letter,  invoice,  &c.,  relating  to  his 
business,  titled,  classed,  and  put  away. 


3396.  Never  suffers  his  desk  to  be  confused  by  many  papers 
lying  upon  it 

339T.  Is  always  at  the  head  of  his  business,  well  knowing 
that  if  he  leaves  it,  it  will  leave  him. 


3398.  Holds  it  as  a  maxim  that  he  whose   credit  is  sus- 
pected is  not  one  to  be  trusted. 


3399.  Is  constantly  examining  his  books,  and  sees  through 
all  his  affairs  as  far  as  care  and  attention  will  enable  him. 


3400.  Balances  regularly  at  stated  times,  and  then  makes 
out  and  transmits  all  his  accounts-current  to  his  customers, 
both  at  home  and  abroad. 


3401.  He  avoids,  as  no^uch  as  possible,  all  sorts  of  accommo- 
dation in  money  matters  and  lawsuits  where  there  is  the  least 
hazard.  

3402.  He  is  economical  in  his  expenditure,  always  living 
within  his  income.  

3403.  Keeps  a  memorandum-book  in  his  pocket,  in  vrhich 
he  notes  every  particular  relative  to  appointments,  addresses, 
and  petty  cash  matters. 


TEMPERANCE.  581 

3404.  Is  cautious  how  he  becomes  security  for  any  person ; 
and  is  generous  when  urged  by  motives  of  humanity. 


3405.  Let  a  man  act  strictly  to  these  habits  ;  when  once 
begun  they  will  be  easy  to  continue  in — ever  remembering 
that  he  hath  no  profits  by  his  pains  whom  Providence  doth 
not  prosper — and  success  will  attend  his  efforts. 


3406.  If  he  has  a  good  wife,  who  does^her  part,  the  happi- 
ness of  the  noble-hearted  business-man  is  as  secure  as  human- 
ity admits. 


TEMPERANCE. 

340^.  To  '^be  temperate  in  all  things,"  is  the  command;  a 
rule  necessary  for  men  in  order  to  acquire  wealth  righteously, 
and  enjoy  health  perfectly. 

3408.  Late  hours,  irregular  habits,  and  want  of  attention 
to  diet,  are  common  errors  with  most  young  men,  and  these 
gradually,  but  at  first  imperceptibly,  undermine  the  health, 
and  lay  the  foundation  for  various  forms  of  di-sease  in  after 
life.  

3409.  It  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  make  young  persons 
comprehend  this.  They  frequently  sit  up  as  late  as  twelve, 
one,  or  two  o^cloclr,  without  experiencing  any  ill  effects  ;  they 
go  without  a  meal  to-day,  and  to-morrow  eat  to  repletion,  with 
only  temporary  inconvenience. 


3410.  One  night  they  will  sleep  three  or  four  hours,  and  the 
next  nine  or  ten ;  or  one  night,  in  their  eagerness  to  get  away 
into  some  agreeable  company,  they  will  take  no  food  at  all ; 
and  the  next,  perhaps,  will  eat  a  hearty  supper,  and  go  to  bed 
upon  it. 

3411.  These,  with  various  other  irregularities,  are  common 
to  the  majority  of  young  men,  and  are,  as  just  stated,  the  cause 
of  much  bad  health  in  mature  life. 


3412.  Indeed,  nearly  all  the  shattered  constitutions  with 


582  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

which  too  many  are  cursed,  are  the  result  of  a  disregard  to  the 
plainest  precepts  of  health  in  early  life. 


3413.  Laborers,  and  other  working  people,  more  especially 
those  whose  occupations  require  them  to  be  much  in  the  open 
air,  may  be  considered  as  following  a  regulated  system  of  mo- 
deration ;  and  hence  the  higher  degree  of  health  which  pre- 
vails among  them  and  their  families. 


3414.  They  also  observe  rules ;  and  those  which  it  is  said 
were  recommended  by  Old  Parr  are  remarkable  for  good  sense ; 
namely — 

3415.  "Keep  your  head  cool  by  temperance,  your  feet 
warm  by  exercise;  rise  early,  and  go  soon  to  bed;  and  if  you 
are  inclined  to  get  fat,  keep  your  eyes  open  and  your  mouth 
shut.''  

3416.  In  other  words,  sleep  moderately,  and  be  abstemious 
in  diet; — excellent  admonitions,  more  especially  to  those 
inclined  to  corpulency.  ' 

3411.  The  advantage  to  be  derived  from  a  regular  mode  of 
living,  with  a  view  to  the  preservation  of  health  and  life,  are 
nowhere  better  exemplified  than  in  the  precepts  and  practice 
of  Plutarch,  whose  rules  for  this  purpose  are  "excellent ;  and 
by  observing  them  himself,  he  maintained  his  bodily  strength 
and  mental  faculties  unimpaired  to  a  very  advanced  age. 


3418.  Galen  is  a  still  stronger  proof  of  the  advantages  of 
a  regular  plan,  by  means  of  which  he  reached  the  great  age 
of  140  years,  without  having  ever  experienced  disease. 


3419.  His  advice  to  the  readers  of  his  '*  Treatise  on  Health," 
is  as  follows :  ^ 

3420.  ''I  beseech  all  persons  who  shall  read  this  work,  not 
to  degrade  themselves  to  a  level  with  the  brutes,  or  the  rab- 
ble, by  gratifying  their  sloth,  or  by  eating  and  drinking  pro- 
miscuously whatever  pleases  their  palates,  or  by  indulging 
their  appetites  of  every  kind. 


THE    WAY    TO    WEALTH.  583 

3421.  "  But,  whether  they  understand  physic  or  not,  let  them 
consult  their  reason,  and  observe  what  agrees,  and  what  does 
not  agree  with  them,  that,  like  wise  men,  they  may  adhere  to 
the  use  of  such  things  as  conduce  to  their  health,  and  forbear 
every  thing  which,  by  their  own  experience,  they  find  to  do 
them  hurt ;  and  let  them  be  assured  that,  by  a  diligent  obser- 
vation and  practice  of  this  rule,  they  may  enjoy  a  good  share 
of  health,  and  seldom  stand  in  need  of  physic  or  physicians." 

8422.  The  celebrated  maxims  of  Dr.  Franklin,  published  as 
the  ''  Sayings  of  Poor  Kichard,"  deserve  a  place  in  this  family 
book. 

3428.  I  have  sought  out,  and  here  bring  together,  over  one 
hundred  of  these  prudent  precepts. 


THE    WAY    TO    WEALTH. 
3424.  God  helps  those  who  help  themselves. 


3425.  Many  words  won't  fill  a  bushel. 


3426.  Sloth,  like  rust,  consumes  faster  than  labor  wears. 


3427.  The  key  often  used  is  always  bright. 


3428.  Dost  thou  love  life  ?    Then  do  not  squander  time,  for 
that  is  the  stuff  life  is  made  of. 


3429.  The  sleeping  fox  catches  no  poultry. 


3430.  There  will  be  time  enough  for  sleep,  in  the  grave. 


3431.  If  time  be  of  all  things  the  most  precious,  wasting 
time  must  be  the  greatest  prodigality. 


3482.  Lost  time  is  never  found  asrain. 


3433.  What  we  call  time  enough,  always  proves  little  enough. 


3434,  Sloth  makes  all  things  difficult,  but  industry  all  easy. 


584  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

3435.  He  that  riseth  late  must  trot  all  day,  and  shall  scarce 
overtake  his  business  at  nio:ht. 


3436.  Laziness  travels  so  slowly,  that  poverty  soon  over- 
takes him.  

3437.  Drive  thy  business,  lest  it  drive  thee. 


3438.  Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise,  makes  a  man  healthy, 
wealthy,  and  wise. 

3439.  Industry  need  not  wish. 


3440.  He  that  lives  upon  hope,  will  die  fasting. 


3441.  There  are  no  gains  without  pains. 


3442.  Help,  hands,  for  I  have  no  lands. 


3443.  He  that  hath  a  trade,  hath  an  estate,  and  he  that  hath 
a  calling,  hath  an  ofifice  of  profit  and  honor;  but  the  trade 
must  be  worked  at,  and  the  calling  well  foUowed,  or  neither 
will  enable  us  to  pay  our  taxes. 


3444.  The  drone  in  the  hive  makes  no  honey. 


3445.  At  the  working-man's  house  hunger  looks  in,  but 
does  not  enter.  ^ 

3446.  Industry  pays  debts,  but  despair  increaseth  them. 
344Y.  Diligence  is  the  mother  of  good  luck. 


3448.  God  gives  all  things  to  industry. 


3449.  Plow    deep   while    sluggards    sleep,   and    you    will 
have  corn  to  sell  and  to  keep. 

3450.  One  to-day  is  worth  two  to-morrow. 


3451.  Have  you  somewhat  to  do  to-morrow,  do  it  to  day. 


THE   WAY   TO    WEALTH.  585 

3'452.  If  you  were  a  servant,  would  you  not  be  ashamed 
that  a  good  master  should  catch  you  idle  ?  Are  you,  then, 
your  own  master  ?  be  ashamed  to  catch  yourself  idle. 


3453.  The  cat  in  gloves  catches  no  mice. 


3454.  Handle  your  tools  without  mittens. 


3455.  Light  strokes  fell  great  oaks. 


3456.  By  diligence  and  patience,  the  mouse  ate  into  the 
cable.  

345T.  Employ  thy  time  well,  if  thou  meanest  to  gain  lei- 
sure ;  and  since  thou  art  not  sure  of  a  minute,  throw  not  away 
an  hour. 

3458.   A  life  of  leisure  and  a  life  of  laziness,  are  two  things. 


•  3459.  Troubles  spring  from  idleness,  and  grievous  toils  from 
needless  ease.  

3460.  Many  would  live  by   their  wits,  without  labor,  but 
they  break  for  want  of  stock. 


3461.  Industry  gives  comfort,  plenty,  and  respect. 


3462.  Fly  pleasures,  and  they'll  follow  you. 

3463.  Now  I  have  a  sheep  and  a  cow,  everybody  bids  me 
good-morrow.  

3464.  I  never  saw  an  oft-removed  tree, 
Nor  yet  an  oft-removed  family. 

That  throve  so  well  as  one  that  settled  be. 


3465.  Three  removes  are  as  bad  as  a  fire. 


3466.  Keep  thy  shop,  and  thy  shop  will  keep  thee. 


3"46Y.  If  you  would  have  your  business   done,  go ;   if  not, 
send. 


586  MRS.  Hale's   receipts   for   the   milliox. 

3468.         He  that  by  the  plow  would  thrive, 
Himself  must  either  hold  or  drive. 


3469.  The  eve  of  the  master  will  do  more  work  than  both 
his  hands.  

3470.  Want  of  care  does  us  more  damage   than  want  of 
knowledge.  

3471.  Xot  to  oversee  workmen,  is  to  leave  them  your  purse 
open.  

3472.  In  the  affairs  of  the  world,  men  are  saved  not  by  faith, 
but  for  the  want  of  it. 


3473.  Learning  is  to  the  studious,  and  riches  to  the  careful, 
as  well  as  power  to  the  bold,  and  heaven  to  the  virtuous. 

3474.  If  you  would  have  a  faithful  servant,  and  one  that 

you  like,  serve  yourself. 


8475.  A  little  neglect  may  breed  great  mischief. 

3476.     For  want  of  a  nail  the  shoe  was  lost ; 
For  want  of  a  shoe  the  horse  was  lost ; 
For  want  of  a  horse  the  rider  was  lost — 
Being  overtaken  and  slain  by  the  enemy. 


3477.  If  a  man  save  not  as  he  gets,  he  may  keep  his  nose 
to  the  grindstone  all  his  life,  and  die  not  worth  a  groat.    . 


3478.  A  fat  kitchen  makes  a  lean  will. 


3479.  Many  estates  are  spent  in  the  getting, 

Since  women  for  tea,  forsook  spinning  and  knitting, 
And  men  for  punch,  forsook  hewing  and  splitting. 


3480.  The  Indies  did  not  make  Spain  rich,  because  her  out- 
goes were  greater  than  her  incomes. 


3481.         Women  and  wine,  game  and  deceit. 

Make  the  wealth  small,  and  the  want  great. 


THE   WAY   TO   WEALTH.  587 

3482.  What  maintains  one  vice  would  bring  up  two  children. 


3483.  Many  a  little  makes  a  mickle. 

3484.  Beware  of  little  expenses ;  a  small  leak  will  sink  a 
great  ship. 

3485.  Who  dainties  love,  shall  beggars  prove. 


3486.  Fools  make  feasts,  and  wise  men  eat  them. 


348t.  Buy  what  thou  dost  not  need,  and  ere  long  thou  shalt 
sell  thy  necessaries.  

3488.  At  a  great  bargain  pause  awhile. 

3489.  Many  have  been  ruined  by  good  bargains. 


3490.  It  is  foolish  to  lay  out   money  in  the  purchase  of 
repentance.  

3491.  Wise  men  learn  by  other's  harms,  fools  scarcely  by 
their  own.  

3492.  Silks    and  satins,  scarlet  and  velvets,  put  out  the 
kitchen  fire.  

3493.  For  one  poor  person,  there  are  a  hundred  indigent. 

3494.  A  plowman  on  his  legs,  is  higher  than  a  gentleman 
on  his  knees.  

3495.  Always  taking  out  of  the  meal-tub,  and  never  putting 
in,  soon  comes  to  the  bottom. 


3496.  When  the  well  is  dry  we  know  the  worth  of  water. 


3497.  If  you  would  know  the  value  of  money,  try  to  borrow. 


3498.  He  that  goes  a-borrowing,  goes  a-sorrowing. 


3499.       Fond  pride  of  dress  is  sure  a  very  curse  ; 
Ere  fancy  you  consult,  consult  your  purse. 


538  ^RS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  milliox. 

3500.  Pride  is  as  loud  a  beggar  as  Want,  and  a  great  deal 
more  saucv.  

3501.  It  is  easier  to  suppress  the  first  desire  than  to  satisfy 
all  that  follow  it.  

3502.  Yessels  large  may  venture  more, 

But  little  boats  should  keep  the  shore. 


3503.  Pride  that  shines  on  vanity  sups  on  contempt. 

3504.  Pride  breakfasted  with  Plenty,  dined  with  Poverty, 
and  supped  with  Infamy. 


3505.  What  is  a  butterfly  ?  At  best 
He's  but  a  caterpillar  dress'd; 
The  gaudy  fop's  his  picture  just. 


3506.  The  second  vice  is  lying;  the  first  is  running  in  debt. 


350Y.  Lying  rides  upon  debt's  back. 

3508.  It  is  hard  for  an  empty  bag  to  stand  upright. 


3509.  Creditors  have  better  memories  than  debtors. 


3510.  Creditors  are  a  superstitious  sect,  great  observers  of 
set  days  and  times.  

3511.  Those  have  a  short  Lent  who  owe  money  to  be  paid 
at  Easter.  

3512.  The  borrower  is  a  slave  to  the  lender,  and  the  debtor 
to  the  creditor.  

3513.  For  age  and  want  save  while  you  may, 
No  morning  sun  lasts  a  whole  day. 

3514.  It  is  easier  to  build  two  chimneys  than  to  keep  one 
in  fuel.  

3515.  Rather  go  supperless  to  bed  than  rise  in  debt. 


HEALTH     AND    WEALTH.  589 

8516.   Get  what  you  can,  and  what  you  get  hold  ; 

^Tis  the  stone  that  will  turn  all  your  lead  into  gold. 


-3517.  Experience  keeps  a  dear  school ;  but  fools  will  learn 
in  no  other,  and  scarce  in  that ;  for  we  may  give  advice,  but 


we  cannot  give  conduct. 


3518.  They  that  will  not  be  counseled  cannot  be  helped. 


3519.  If    you  will  not  reason,  she  will  surely  rap   their 
knuckles.  

3520.  Distrust  and  caution  are  the  parents  of  security. 


3521.  After  feasts  made,  the  maker  shakes  his  head. 


3522.  There  is  neither  honor  nor  gain  got  in  dealing  with 
a  villain. 

3523.  Visits  should  be  like  a  winter's  day,  short. 


3524.  A  house  without  woman  and  firelight, 
Is  like  a  body  without  soul  or  sprite. 


3525.  Light  purse,  heavy  heart. 

3526.  Ne'er  take  a  wife  till  thou  hast  a  house  (and  a  fire) 
to  put  her  in. 

352'7.  Hunger  never  saw  bad  bread. 


3528.  Great  talkers,  little  doers. 


3529.         A  rich  rogue  is  like  a  fat  hog ; 

He  does  no  good  till  as  dead  as  a  log. 


3530.  Relation  without  friendship,  friendship  without  power, 
power  without  will,  will  without  etfcct,  effect  without  profit, 
and  profit  without  virtue,  are  not  worth  a  farthing. 

3531.  lie  has  changed  his  one-eyed  horse  for  a  blind  one. 


590  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

3532.  To  lengthen  thy  life,  lessen  thy  meals. 


3533.  Tongue  double,  brings  trouble. 

3534.  He's  the  best  physician  that  knows  the  worthlessness 
of  most  medicines. 


PAET  XII. 

THE  FAMILY  AT  HOME. 

A  Good  Table — Bread,  etc. — 3Ieots — Vegetables — Household 
Management — Beverages — Useful  Receipts,  etc, — Maxims, 
Dietetic  and  Moral — Tool- Chests — Dressmaking,  etc. — 
Pets — Swimming — Riding — Amusements — Children — Let- 
ter- Writing — Debt — Flowers —  Time — Air — Laws  —  Phre- 
nology— Historical —  Words  of  Washington. 

3535.  A  good  table  is  necessary  to  health  and  domestic 
comfort.  

3536.  Nearly  every  family  in  our  Republic  has,  or  might  have, 
the  means  of  living  very  comfortably  ;  if  nothing  was  wavSted, 
and  all  food  was  properly  cooked,  good  tables  would  abound. 


353t.  In  my  ''New  Cook  Book"  these  subjects  are  so  fully 
treated  that  little  can  be  added. 


3538.  Still  a  few  ''  Choice  Receipts"  on  Cookery  will  be 
found  in  this  volume,  at  page  319  and  on.  I  shall  add  such 
other  directions  in  this  chapter  as  seem  necessary  to  complete 
the  system  :  and  first  of  the  staff  of  life- — bread. 


3539.  Bread. — To  make  good  bread,  or  to  understand  the 
process  of  making  it,  is  the  duty  of  every  woman ;  indeed,  an 
art  that  should  never  be  nep:lected  in  the  education  of  a  lady. 


3540.  The  Lady  derives  her  title  from  ''dividing  or  distri- 
buting bread :"  the  more  perfect  the  bread  the  more  noble  the 
lady 


BREAD.  591 

3541.  In  ''  Mrs.  Hale's  New  Cook  Book,"  and  in  the  fol- 
lowing directions,  the  art  is  made  plain  ;  and  the  process  may, 
by  practice,  be  easily,  acquired. 


3542.  Proportions  of  Nutriment  in  articles  of  Food. — See 
'^  Mrs.  Hale's  New  Cook  Book — Introductory,"  etc. 


3543.  Bread  contains  eighty  nutritious  parts  in  one  hun- 
dred; meal  thirty-four  in  one  hundred  ;  French  beans,  ninety- 
two  in  one  hundred ;  common  beans,  eighty-nine  in  one  hun- 
dred ;  peas,  ninety-three  in  one  hundred ;  lentils,  ninety-four 
in  one  hundred  ;  cabbages  and  turnips,  the  most  aqueous  of 
all  the  vegetables  compared,  produce  only  eight  pounds  of  solid 
matter  in  one  hundred  pounds;  carrots  and  spinach  produce 
fourteen  in  the  same  quantity ;  while  one  hundred  pounds  of 
potatoes  contain  twenty-five  pounds  of  dry  substance. 

3544.  From  a  general  estimate  it  results,  that  one  pound 
of  good  bread  is  equal  to  two  pounds  and  a  half  or  three 
pounds  of  potatoes  ;  that  seventy-five  pounds  of  bread  and 
thirty  of  meat  may  be  substituted  for  three  hundred  pounds 
of  potatoes.  

3545.  The  other  substances  bear  the  following  proportions  : 
four  parts  of  cabbage  to  one  of  potatoes  ;  three  parts  of  turnips 
to  one  of  potatoes  ;  two  parts  of  carrots  and  spinach  to  one 
of  potatoes  ;  and  about  three  parts  and  a  half  of  potatoes  to 
one  of  rice,  lentils,  beans,  French  beans,  and  dry  peas. 

3546.  To  test  flour ^  people  in  the  trade  generally  knead  a 
small  quantity  by  way  of  experiment ;  if  good,  the  flour  imme- 
diately forms  an  adhesive  elastic  paste,  which  will  readily 
assume  any  form  that  may  be  given  to  it,  without  danger  of 
breaking.  

3547.  Pure  and  unadulterated  flour  may  likewise  be  easily 
distinguished  by  other  methods  :  seize  a  handful  briskly,  and 
squeeze  it  half  a  minute  ;  it  preserves  the  form  of  the  cavity  of 
the  hand  in  one  piece,  although  it  may  be  rudely  placed  ou 
the  table ;  not  so  that  which  contains  foreign  substances,  it 
breaks  in  pieces  more  or  less  ;  that  mixed  with  whiting  being  the 
most  adhesive,  but  stili  dividing  and  falling  down  in  a  Lttle  lime. 


592  MRS.  bale's  receipts   for  the  million. 

3548.  Indian  Bread. — One  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  quart 
of  Indian-meal,  one  quart  of  coarse  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses  ; 
add  a  little  soda  and  salt. 


8549.  Bread  making  is  an  art,  the  importance  of  which  is 
too  frequently  overlooked  or  underrated.  Heavy,  sour,  hard 
bread  should  never  be  tolerated,  because  good  bread  is  more 
palatable,  more  healthy,  and  it  should  be  borne  in  mind,  is  really 
much  less  expensive.  There  is  great  saving  in  baking  bread 
at  home,  and  this  saving  is  greatest  when  flour  is  cheapest. 


3550.  Good  fiour  and  good  yeast  are  requisites,  but  the 
goodness  of  the  bread  depends  much  on  the  kneading :  the 
more  the  dough  is  turned  and  pressed  and  worked,  the  lighter 
and  better  the  bread  will  be. 


3551.  Proportions. — Two  gallons  flour,   half  pint   strong 
fresh  yeast ;  if  home-made,  add  more. 


3552.  The  Process. — Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  in  which 
pour  the  yeast  mixed  with  half  a  pint  warm  water.  Stir  in 
the  flour  round  the  edge  of  this  liquid  with  a  spoon  to  form  a 
thin  batter.  After  stirring  it  well  for  two  minutes,  sprinkle  a 
handful  of  flour  over  the  top  of  this  batter,  lay  a  warm  cloth 
over  it,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  it  rises  so 
as  to  crack  on  the  top  add  four  spoonsful  fine  salt,  and  begin 
to  form  the  mass  into  dough,  pouring  as  much  soft,  lukewarm 
water  as  is  necessary  to  make  the  flour  mix  with  the 
batter.  When  the  flour  and  batter  are  thoroughly  mixed,- 
knead  and  work  the  w^hole  till  it  is  light  and  stitf.  Roll  into 
a  lump,  sprinkle  dry  flour  over  it,  cover  and  put  into  a  warm 
place,  when  in  half  an  hour  it  will  rise  enough  for  baking. 
See  ''  Mrs.  Hale's  Cook  Book,"  page  375.  The  quality  de- 
pends much  on  the  time  of  putting  the  dough  in  the  oven. 
Dough  readily  runs  into  three  stages  of  fermentation.  It 
should  be  put  in  the  oven  during  the  first  or  saccharine^  when 
if  sufficiently  baked  it  will  be  sweet  and  wholesome.  It  after- 
ward becomes  sour  and  heavy.  If  put  in  too  soon,  it  will  be 
light  and  as  tasteless  as  saw-dust. 


3553.   Good  bread  is  marked  by  fine .  pores  and  a  sort  of 
network  of  uniform  appearance. 


BREAD.  593 

3554.   Keep  bread  wrapped  in  a  coarse  towel,  and  where  it 
will  not  dry  up,  or  in  a  tight  box. 


3555.  If  sour,  froni  being  mixed  over  night,  melt  a  tea- 
spoon of  pearlash  in  a  little  milk-warm  water,  sprinkle  it  over 
the  dough,  and  in  half  an  hour  knead  it  again. 


3556.  Frozen  dough  is  spoiled. 


355T.  Indian  is  a  good  addition  to  wheat,  and  requires 
more  water,  or  make  mush  of  it  and  then  mix  in. 


3558.    The  bitterness  of  yeast  may  be  remedied  by  putting 


in  a  little  charcoal  and  then  straining  it. 


3559.  Bj/e  and  Indian  Bread. — Mix  two  quarts  of  each 
with  three  pints  boiling  milk,  table-spoon  salt,  and  stir  well. 
Let  it  stand  till  lukewarm,  then  stir  in  half  pint  good  yeast. 
Knead  to  a  stiff  dough  and  put  to  rise  near  the  fire.  When 
the  top  is  cracked  over,  make  into  two  loaves  and  bake 
moderate  two  and  a  half  hours. 


3560.  Common  Yeast. — Boil  a  large  handful  hops  in  two 
quarts  of  water  twenty  minutes.  Strain  and  pour  the  liquid 
into  three  pints  flour.  Stir  in  half  a  pint  strong  yeast.  Its 
strength  is  increased  by  five  tea-spoons  brown  sugar  or  five 
large  spoons  molasses.  Cork  the  bottles  loose  till  next  day, 
and  then  tight.  . 

3561.  If  turning  sour  put  tea-spoon  pearlash  in  each 
bottle- 

3562.  Another, — Boil,  peel  and  mash  mealy  potatoes,  which 
reduce  with  water  or  ale  as  thin  as  common  yeast.  To  every 
pound  add  two  ounces  coarse  sugar,  and  when  just  warm  stir 
in  two  spoons  of  yeast.  Keep  warm  till  fermentation  is  over 
and  in  twenty-four  hours  fit  for  use.  Let  sponge  eight  hours 
before  baking. 


3563.    Yeast. — Boil  one  pound  of  good  flour,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  little  salt,  in  two  gallons  of  water 
for  one  hour.     When  milk-warm,  bottle  it  close  ;  it  will  be  fit 
38 


594  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

to  use  in    twenty -four   hours.     One  pint  of  this  will   make 
eighteen  pounds  of  bread. 


3564.  Pulled  Bread. — Take  from  the  oven  an  ordinary  loaf 
when  it  is  about  half  baked,  and  with  the  fingers,  while  the 
bread  is  yet  hot,  dexterously  pull  the  half-set  dough  into 
pieces  of  irregular  shape^  about  the  size  of  an  ^gg.  Don't 
attempt  to  smooth  or  flatten  them — the  rougher  their  shapes 
the  better.  

3565.  Set  upon  tins,  place  in  a  very  slow  oven,  and  bake 
to  a  rich  brown.  This  forms  a  deliciously  crisp  crust  for 
cheese.  If  you  do  not  bake  at  home,  your  baker  will  prepare 
it  for  you,  if  ordered.  Pulled  bread  may  be  made  in  the  re- 
volving ovens.  

3566.  It  is  very  nice  with  wine  instead  of  biscuits. 

356t.  A  great  increase  on  home-made  bread,  even  equal  to 
one-fifth,  may  be  produced  by  using  bran  water  for  kneading 
the  dough.  The  proportion  is  three  pounds  of  bran  for  every 
twenty-eight  pounds  of  flour,  the  bran  to  be  boiled  for  an 
hour,  and  then  strained  through  a  hair-sieve. 


3568.  Indian  cake  made  with  buttermilk,  or  sour  milk,  with 
a  little  cream  or  butter  rubbed  into  the  meal,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  pearlash  in  the  milk,  is  very  light  and  nutritious. 


3569.  Use  of  Lime-water  in  making  Bread. — It  has  lately 
been  found  that  water  saturated  with  lime  produces  in  bread 
the  same  whiteness,  softness  and  capacity  of  retaining  moisture, 
as  results  from  the  use  of  alum  ;  while  the  former  removes  all 
acidity  from  the  dough,  and  supplies  an  ingredient  needed  in 
the  structure  of  the  bones,  but  which  is  deficient  in  the 
cerealia, 

3510.  The  best  proportion  to  use  is,  five  pounds  of  water 
saturated  with  lime,  to  every  nineteen  pounds  of  flour.  No 
change  is  required  in  the  process  of  baking. 


3571.   The  lime  most  effectually  coagulates  the  gluten,  and 
the  bread  weighs  well ;  bakers  must  therefore  approve  of  its 


BREAD,    BISCUITS,    ETC.  *  595 

introduction,    which    is   not    im'nrious    to   the    system,    like 
ahim,  &c.  '\ 

3572.  Cheap  Bread. — Indian  meal  is  the  cheapest,  and  a 
bushel  furnishes  more  nutriment  than  the  same  quantity  of 
wheat.  It  is  also  a  generally  healthy  diet,  and  those  who 
wish  to  practice  close  economy  should  use  much  of  this  meal 
in  their  families.  

3573.  It  makes  excellent  puddings  and  warm  cakes,  which 
are  much  less  apt  to  oppress  the  stomach  than  hot  wheat  bread 
or  short  cakes  of  any  kind.  And  good,  light,  nourishing 
bread  may  be  made  by  using  five  parts  of  Indian  and  one  of 
rye  or  wheat  flour,  (see  receipts  for  *'Rye  and  Indian 
Bread ;")  which  is  better  than  to  cook  it  hot  at  every  meal. 


3574.  Remember  that  four  loaves  of  cold  bread  will  go  as 
far  in  a  familji  as  Jive  loaves  of  hot  bfead. 


3575.  Excellent  paste  for  fruit  or  meat  pies  may  be  made 
with  two-thirds  of  wheat  flour,  one-third  of  the  flour  of  boiled 
potatoes,  and  some  butter  or  dripping ;  the  whole  being 
brought  to  a  proper  consistence  with  warm  water,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  yeast  added  when  lightness  is  desired.  This  will 
also  make  very  pleasant  cakes  for  breakfast,  and  may  be  made 
with  or  without  spices,  fruit,  &c. 


3576.  Picnic  Biscuits. — Take  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter, 
and  well  work  it  with  a  pound  of  flour.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
it  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  pure  carbonate  of  soda  ;  two  ounces 
of  sugar;  mingle  thoroughly  with  the  flour;  make  up  the 
paste  with  spoonfuls  of  milk — it  will  require  scarcely  a  quarter 
of  a  pint.  

3577.  Knead  smooth,  roll  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  n 
rounds  about  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  small  wine-glass ;  roll 
these  out  thin,  prick  them  well,  lay  them  on  lightly  floured 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  gentle  oven  until  brisp.  When  cold  put 
into  dry  canisters.  ^ 

3578.  Thin  cream  used  instead  of  milk,  in  the  paste,  will 


596         •      MRS.     ale's   receipts  for   the  million 

enrich  the  biscuits.-     Caraway  seeds  or  ginger  can  be  added/ 
to"  vary' these  at  pleasure. 


3579.  Bye  and  wheat  flour,  half  and  half,  makes  excellent 
household  bread. 

3580.  Common  Black  Cake. — Beat  separately  the  wliites 
and  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Mix  half  a  pound  of  butter  with  one 
pound  of  flour  ;  one  tumbler  of  milk  ;  one  tumbler  of  molasses  ; 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Then  put  in  the  eggs  and  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Wine,  currants,  raisins  and  citron 
to  your  taste.  

3581.  Maize  Cahe. — Take  six  eggs,  a  paper  of  Oswego  corn 
starch,  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  half  pound  of  butter,  half 
teacup  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar,  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon ;  dissolve  the  soda  in 
half  the  milk,  and  add  it  the  last  thing.  Bakejn  an  oven  as 
quick  as  you  can  make  it,  without  burning. 


3582.  It  is  a  very  delicate  cake  to  bake  well.  Use  flat  pans, 
a  little  deeper  than  Spanish  bun  pans,  and  put  paper  over  the 
top.  

Composition  Cake. — Take  three  pounds  of  flour,  half  pound 
of  butter,  one  and  three-quarter  j)Ounds  of  sugar,  three  eggs — 
beat  the  eggs — add  half  a  pint  of  yeast  to  them,  half  a  pint 
of  new  miik,  three  spoonsful  of  rose-water,  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon and  cloves  ;  put  the  butter  in  the  flour  and  half  the  sugar, 
the  other  half  mix  with  the  eggs  ;  make  a  hole  in  the  flour, 
pour  the  ingredients  into  it ;  set  it  to  lighten  in  the  morning 
by  the  fire  ;  after  it  is  made  out  into  rolls,  you.  may  put  it  into 
tins,  and  set  it  before  the  fire  for  an  hour  or  two ;  when  suffi- 
ciently risen,  bake  it  in  rather  a  slow  oven. 


3584.  Ginger  Biscuits  and  Cakes. — Work  into  small  crumbs 
three  ounces  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  flour;  add  three  ounces 
of  powdered  sugar  and  two  of  ginger,  in  fine  powder;  knead 
into  a  stiff  paste,  with  new  fliilk,  roll  thin,  cut  out  with  a 
cutter ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp  through  ;  keep  of  a  pale 
color. 


CAicES  AND  ruDBixas.  ,        59^ 

3585.  Additional  sugar  may  be  used  when  sweeter  biscuit 
is  desired.  For  good  ginger-cakes,  butter  six  ounces,  sugar 
eight,  for  each  pound  of  flour  ;  wet  the  ingredients  into  a  paste 
with  eggs ;  a  little  lemon-grate  will  give  an  agreeable  flavor. 


3586.  Loof-cake. — Six  pounds  of  flour,  three  and  one-half 
pounds  of  butter,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  three 
pints  of  milk,  six  eggs,  four  pounds  of  fruit,  one-half  pint  of 
yeast,  three  gills  of  wine,  four  nutmegs,  and  one  and  one- 
quarter  ounce  of  mace  citron.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
froth  ;  boil  the  milk,  and  turn  in  the  wine  ;  put  the  curds  and 
whey  ivarm,  but  not  hot,  into  the  flour ;  then  add  the  eggs  and 
yeast,  and  only  one-third  of  the  beaten  butter  and  sugar ;  let 
it  rise  until  very  light,  and  then  add  the  remainder  of  the 
butter  and  sugar,  and  let  it  rise  again  ^  when  light,  put  in  the 
spices,  fruit,  &c.,  bake  it  in  a  not  very  hot  oven. 

Another  receipt  leaves  out  one-half  pound  of  butter  and 
also  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  quantity  of  flour, 
fruit,  eggs,  &c.  

358T.  Sponge- Cake, — Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
white  sugar,  and  pour  one-half  tumbler  of  cold  water  into 
it,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  until  it  boils  clear;  beat  up  seven 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  and,  after  the  sugar  and 
water  has  cooled,  add  the  yolks,  stirring  them  well ;  flavor  it 
with  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  and  half  the  juice  of  the  same  ;  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  then  sift  in  one  half  pound  of 
flour.  This  cake  has  the  advantage  of  remaining  moist  and 
spirited,  longer  than  other  sponge-cake. 


3588.  A  Cheap  and  Quick  Pudding, — Beat  up  four  eggs,  add 
a  pint  of  milk  and  a  little  salt,  and  stir  in  four  large  spoonsful 
of  flour,  a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  your  taste.  Beat  it  well, 
and  pour  it  into  buttered  teacups,  filling  them  rather  more 
than  half  full.  They  will  bake  in  a  stove  or  Dutch  oven  in 
fifteen  minutes ;  and  if  you  have  company  to  dinner,  and  wish 
to  add  a  little  dish,  this  is  a  good  and  cheap  one. 


3589.  Sago  and  Apple  Pudding  (very  nice). — Let  half  a 
pound  of  sago  steep  in  water  enough  to  cover  it  until  dissolved. 
This  will  take  about  half  an  hour.     Pare  and  core  eight  nice 


598  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million, 

apples  without  cutting  them  apart.  Fill  the  middle  wito  sugar, 
putting  in  each  a  little  cinnamon.  Arrange  the  apples  in  a 
pudding-dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  sago.  Let  it  bake  from 
one  to  two  hours.  This  is  equally  as  nice,  although  it  does  not 
look  so  well,  if  the  apples  are  cut  in  quarters  instead  of  being 
left  whole,  and  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  sprinkled  over  them. 
It  is  good  either  cold  or  hot. 


3590.  Pea  Pudding. — Dry  a  pint  or  quart  of  split  peas 
thoroughly  before  the  fire  ;  then  tie  them  up  loosely  in  a  cloth, 
put  them  into  warm  water,  boil  them  a  couple  of  hours,  or 
more,  until  quite  tender ;  take  them  up,  beat  them  well  iu 
a  dish  with  a  little  salt  (some  add  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg)  and  a 
bit  of  butter.  Make  it  quite  smooth,  tie  it  up  again  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  it  an  hour  longer.     This  is  highly  nourishing. 


3591.  Calves'  Feet  Jelly. — Boil  four  feet  in  four  gallons  of 
water  till  it  comes  to  half  a  gallon  ;  strain  it,  let  it  stand  till 
cold,  and  skim  off  all  the  fat  clean.  Take  the  jelly  up,  leaving 
the  settlings  at  the  bottom.  Put  your  jelly  into  a  clean  sauce- 
pan or  skillet,  and  to  every  quart  of  jelly  add  one  pint  of  wine, 
half  pound  of  loaf-sugar  beaten,  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  ; 
beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  froth — put  all  in  to- 
gether— stir  w^ell  till  it  boils,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  have 
ready  a  double  flannel  bag,  pour  it  in  again  till  it  runs  clear; 
have  a  china  bowl  with  lemon- peel  cut  as  thin  as  possible,  let 
the  jelly  drip  on  the  peel  and  it  will  give  it  a  flavor,  and  a  fine 
amber  color;  with  a  clean  silver  spoon  fill  your  glasses. — (See 
^'Mrs.  Hale's  Cook  Book,^^  p.  324.) 


3592.  Calves'  Feet  Jelly  made  ivith  Gelatine. — Take  three 
quarts  of  water,  one  pint  of  white  wine,  six  table-spoonsful 
of  brandy ;  six  lemons,  peel  and  all ;  six  eggs,  the  whites 
slightly  beaten,  the  shells  crushed,  and  the  yolks  not  used  ; 
three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  four  ounces  of  gelatine.  Soak 
for  half  an  hour  the  gelatine  in  one  quart  of  the  water.  Mix 
the  other  ingredients  in  the  other  two  quarts.  Put  all  together, 
and  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes  without  stirring.  Strain  it 
through  a  flannel  bag  without  squeezing.  Wet  the  mould  in 
cold  water.  Ponr  the  jelly  in,  and  leave  it  to  cool.  Three 
hours  is  generally  sufficient. 


ANIMAL  FOOD.  599 

3593.  Meats. — A  few  hints,  or  general  rules  will  be  given 
here.    (See  ""  Mrs  Hale's  New  Cook  Book"  for  Receipts,  &c.) 


3594.  Animal  food. — The  quantity  of  animal  food  required 
to  sustain  the  constitution,  in  its  most  perfect  state,  is  greatest 
in  the  coldest  countries,  and,  decreasing  according  to  the 
warmth  of  the  climate,  when  we  reach  the  torrid  zone,  but  a 
small  quantity  is  needed. 


3595.  In    temperate    climates,   like   our  own,   the   largest 
quantity  is  required  during  the  winter. 


3596.  None  should  use  it  freely  during  the  hottest  weather, 
except  it  be  those  who  labor  hard  in  the  open  air ;  it  rarely 
appears  to  injure  such,  yet  probably  it  would  be  best  for  them 
to  eat  less  meat  and  more  bread  and  vegetables  during  sum- 
mer. They  would  not  then  suffer  so  much  from  thirst,  which 
often  induces  the  desire  for  stimulating  liquids. 


3591.  As  a  general  rule,  animal  food  is  more  easily  and 
speedily  digested  than  vegetable  food  of  any  kind — and  this 
it  is  which  makes  meats-  more  heating  and  stimulating. 


3598.  The  great  essentials  for  the  easy  digestion  of  animal 
food  are  that  the  fibres  be  tender  and  fine  grained. 


3599.  Of  the  different  sorts  of  butcher  meat,  Poy^k  is  that 
of  which  the  least  quantity  should  be  taken  at  a  time.  It  re- 
quires longer  to  digest  roasted  pork  than  any  other  kind  of 
meat.  

3600.  Beef  agrees  well  with  most  constitutions ;  it  is 
cheapest  in  the  autumn,  but  best  in  the  winter  season.  Many 
have  a  distaste  to  mutton ;  but  for  those  who  relish  it,  it  is  a 
nutritious  food,  and  easy  of  digestion. 


3601.  Lamb,  veal,  and  fowls  are  delicate  and  healthy  diet 
for  the  young  and  sedentary ;  and  for  all  who  find  fat  meats 
and  those  of  coarse  fibre  do  not  ao-ree  with  them. 


3602.  The  most  economical  way  of  cooking  meat  is  to  boil 


600  MRS.    HALES     RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

it,  if  the  liquid  be  used  for  soup  or  broth,  as  it  always  ought 
to  be.  

3603.  Baking  is  one  of  the  cheapest  ways  of  dressing  a 
dinner  in  small  families,  and  several  kinds  of  meat  are  excellent 
done  in  this  way.  

,3604.  Legs  and  loins  of  pork,  legs  of  mutton,  and  fillets  of 
veal  will  bake  to  much  advantage  ;  especially  if  they  be  fat. 


3605.  Never  bake  a  lean,  thin  piece,  it  will  all  shrivel 
away.  Such  pieces  should  always  be  boiled  or  made  into 
soup.  

3606.  Pigs,  geese,  and  the  buttock  of  beef  are  all  excellent 
baked.  

3607.  Meat  always  loses  in  weight  by  being  cooked. — In 
roasting,  the  loss  is  the  greatest.  It  also  costs  more  in  fuel 
to  roast  than  to  boil — still  there  are  many  pieces  of  meat 
which  seem  made  for  roasting  ;  and  it  would  be  almost  wrong 
to  cook  them  in  any  other  way. 


3608.  The  other  pieces  of  the  animal  are  best  salted  and 
boiled ;  or  if  used  fresh,  stewed  or  in  soups.  Beef  should 
rarely  be  fried. 

3609.  Boasting  heef, — Ten  pounds  of  beef  require  from  two 
hours  to  two  hours  and  a-half  roasting,  eighteen  inches  from  a 
good  clear  fire. 

3610.  Six  pounds  require  one  hour  and  a-quarter  to  one 
hour  and  a-half,  fourteen  inches  from  a  good  clear  fire. 


3611.  Three  ribs  of  beef,  boned  and  rolled,  tied  round  with 
paper,  will  require  two  hours  and  a-half,  eighteen  inches  from 
the  fire  ;  baste  once  only. 


3612.  The  first  three  ribs  of  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds,  will 
take  three  hours  or  three  and  a-half;  the  fourth  and  fifth  ribs 
will  take  as  long,  managed  in  the  same  way  as  the  sirloin. 


COOKING  AND  PRESERVIEG   MEATS.  601 

Paper  the  fat  and   the  thin  part,  or  it  will  be  clone  too  much 
before  the  thick  part  is  done  enough. 


3613.  When  beef  is  very  fat,  it  does  not  require  basting; 
if  very  lean  tie  it  up  in  buttered  paper,  and  baste  frequently 
and  well.  

8614.  Common  cooks  are  generally  fond  of  too  fierce  a  fire, 
and  of  putting  things  too  near  to  it. 


3615.  Slow  roasting  is  as  advantageous  to  the  tenderness 
and  flavor  of  meat  as  slow  boiling. 


3616.  The  warmer  the  weather,  and  the  staler  killed  the 
meat  is,  the  less  time  it  will  require  to  roast  it. 


361 T.  Meat  that  is  very  fat  requires  more  time  than  other 
meat.  _____ 

3618.  Cooking  meats, — The  proper  manner  of  preparation 
is,  to  cook  it  till  it  is  entirely  separated  from  the  blood,  and 
the  fibres  are  rendered  soft  and  easy  of  digestion. 


3619.  Lamb  is  a  delicate  and  tender  meat;  but  it  requires 
to  be  kept  a  few  days,  when  the  weather  will  permit — and 
should  be  thoroughly  cooked  to  be  healthful.  Never  take 
'lamb  or  veal  from  the  spit  till  the  gravy  that  drops  is  white. 


3620.  Preserving  meats. — Salt  is  the  grand  preservative  of 
meats  ;  but  in  using  these,  care  should  be  taken  to  soak  them 
if  too  salt.     It  is.  not  healthy  to  eat  our  food  very  salt. 


3621.  In  the  summer  season,  particular  attention  must  be 
observed,  lest  fresh  meat  be  injured.  In  the  country  this  care 
is  very  necessary.  

3622.  Be  sure  to  take  the  kernels  out  of  a  round  of  beef; 
one  in  the  udder,  in  the  fat,  and  those  about  the  thick  end  of 
the  flank. 

3623.  To  salt  the  meat  thoroughly,  rub  in  the  salt  evenly 


602  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

into  every  part,  aad  fill  the  holes  where  the  kernels  were  taken 
out.  

3624.  A  ponnd  and  a-half  of  salt  will  be  sufficient  for 
twenty-five  pounds  of  beef,  if  you  only  want  to  corn  it  to  be 
eaten  in  a  few^  days.  

3625.  In  the  summer,  the  sooner  meat  is  salted,  after  it  is 
cool,  the  better.  In  winter,  it  is  better  to  be  kept  a  few  days 
before  salting.  

3626.  Pork  ought  not  to  be  allowed  to  freeze  before  it  is 

salted  for  family  use.  

3627.  If  you  \^ish  beef  to  look  red,  rub  it  first  with  salt- 
petre and  sugar ;  half  an  ounce  of  each  mixed  together,  is 
sufficient  for  twenty  pounds  of  meat. 


3628.'  PovJtry. — Xo  kind  of  animal  food  is  so  delicate  and 
delicious  as  the  flesh  of  fowls  and  birds,  and  no  kind  is  so 
generally  healthful.  Rarely  does  it  disagree  with  those  who 
are  well ;  even  the  feeble  in  constitution,  or  those  debilitated 
by  sickness,  find  this  a  most  agreeable  and  nutritious  diet. 


3629.  The  white  meat  of  a  young  turkey,  when  well  boiled, 
is  easier  of  digestion  than  that  of  any  other  fowl. 

3630.  In  a  yonng  turkey,  the  toes  and  bill  are  soft. 


3631.  A  young  goose  (a  very  old  one  is  not  fit  to  be  eaten) 
is  plump  in  the  breast,  and  the  fat  white  and  soft — the  feet 
yellow,  the  web  of  the  foot  thin  and  tender. 


3632.  Ducks,  if  young,  feel  very  tender  under  the  wing, 
and  the  web  of  the  foot  is  transparent. 


3633.  The  best  fowls  have  yellow  legs — if  very  old,  the  feet 
look  stiff  and  worn.  

3634.  Pigeons  should  be  quite  fresh,  the  breast  plump  and 
fat. 


HASHES.  .  603 

3635.  Poultry  should  lie  one  night  after  being  killed  in 
warm  weather  to  make  it  tender ;  in  cold  weather  it  may  be 
kept  a  much  longer  time  to  advantage. 

3636.  Take  care  of  the  liquor  you  have  boiled  poultry  or 
meat  in ;  in  five  minutes  you  may  make  it  into  soup. 

363Y.  The  good  housewife  never  boils  a  joint  without  con- 
verting the  broth  into  some  sort  of  soup. 


3638.  If  the  liquor  be  too  salt,  only  use  half  the  quantity, 
and  the  rest  water ;  wash  salted  meat  well  with  cold  water 
before  you  put  it  into  the  boiler. 


3639.  Fish  is  much  less  nutritious  than  flesh.  The  white  kinds 
of  fish,  cod,  haddock,  flounders,  white  fish,  &c.,  are  the  least 
nutritious ;  the  oily  kinds,  salmon,  eels,  herrings,  &c.,  are 
more  difficult  to  digest. 


3640.  Shell-fish  have  long  held  a  high  rank  as  restorative 
food ;  but  a  well-dressed  chop  or  steak  is  much  better  to  re- 
cruit the  strength  and  spirits. 


3641.  Hashes. — All  the  pieces  and  bits  of  cold  meat  should 
be  minced  and  warmed ;  if  this  is  rightly  done,  the  dish  is 
generally  a  favorite  one. 


3642.  It  is  best  to  chop  the  meat  very  fine,  (gristles  and 
gelatinous  matter  from  the  iDones  may  be  included  ;)  then  make 
a  gravy  by  putting  a  lump  of  butter  (what  you  judge  neces- 
sary) into  a  stewpan  ;  when  it  is  hot,  add  a  little  flour,  and 
stir  it  into  the  butter  ;  then  add  a  teacupful  of  the  broth  the 
meat  was  boiled  in,  and  a  little  catsup.  Let  this  boil  up,  then 
put  in  the  mince  meat,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt.  

3643.  Let  it  stand  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  covered,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil — it  hardens  the  meat  to  boil  it.  Lay  slices 
of  toasted  bread  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  moat  and  gruvy 
over. 


604  MRS.    HALF/s    receipts    for    THS    MILLIOfT. 

3644.  Meat  may  be  kept  several  days  in  the  height  of  sum- 
mer, sweet  and  good,  by  lightly  covering  it  with  bran,  and 
hanging  it  in  some  high  or  windy  room,  or  in  a  passage 
where  there  is  a  current  of  air. 


VEGETABLES. 

3645.  The  importance  of  using  a  portion  of  vegetable  food 
can  hardly  be  overrated,  though  to  make  this  our  only  diet 
does  and  must  prove  injurious,  because  contrary  to  man's 
nature  and  the  arran»>:ements  of  the  Creator. 


3646.  The  farinaceous  (or  mealy)  are  far  more  nutritioug 
than  other  vegetables  ;  but  none  are  sufficiently  so  to  sustain 
the  constitution  under  the  'cares  and  labors  necessary  to  the 
full  development  of  the  energies  of  body  and  mind. 


3647.  And  unless  these  can  be  developed  and  sustained, 
the  rational  and  moral  character  of  the  human  race  will  never 
be  perfected. 

3648.  Still,  though  animal  food  is  never,  except  in  peculiar 
cases  of  disease,  to  be  wholly  abandoned,  we  must  be  quite  as 
scrupulous  not  to  neglect  the  vegetable  part  of  our  diet.  This 
is  necessary  in  order  to  prevent  the  concentrated  diet  of  flesh 
from  too  sudden  and  stimulating  action. 


3649.  Besides,  our  nature  demands  a  portion  of  vegetables 
to  keep  the  system  in  proper  and  healthy  order.  A  mixed 
diet  is  the  only  right  regimen — the  proportions  of  the  different 
kinds  of  food  vary,  with  different  ages  and  constitutions,  in 
different  climates  and  seasons  ;  still,  in  some  degree,  this  rule 
should  never  be  abandoned. 


3650.  The  very  young  require  a  large  portion  of  mild  fari- 
naceous vegetables,  such  as  rice,  sago,  tapioca,  and  potatoes  ; 
the  two  first  are  very  easy  of  digestion. 


3651.  There  are  three  things  to  be  attended  to  in  cooking 
v^etables  ;  make  them  sufaciently  soft,    develop  their  best 


^  VEGETABLES.  605 

flavor,  and  correct  any  rank  or  disagreeable  taste  they  may 
have.  

3652.  These  things  are  very  easily  accomplished — boil  them 
sufiQciently  ;  change  the  water  if  they  are  rank  or  unpleasant, 
and  add  a  little  salt,  sugar  or  spice,  as  the  case  may  require. 


3653.  Yegetables  are  always   best  when  newly  gathered, 
except  the  potato  ;  that  is  better  in  winter,  if  well  kept. 


3654.  They  are  in    greatest  perfection    when   in  greatest 
plenty  ;  that  is,  in  their  proper  season. 


3655.  Except  spinach,  all  vegetables  should  be  boiled 
quickly  (soft  water  is  much  the  best)  in  an  open  vessel,  and 
carefully  skimmed. 

3656.  To  Clear  Vegetables  of  Insects. — Make  a  strong 
brine  of  one  pound  and  a  half  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water, 
into  this  place  the  vegetables  with  the  stalk  ends  uppermost, 
for  two  or  three  hours  ;  this  will  destroy  ail  the  insects  which 
cluster  in  the  leaves,  and  tliey  will  fall  out  and  sink  to  the 
bottom  of  the  water.  ^ 

365t.  Potatoes. — There  are  few  articles  in  families  more 
subject  to  waste,  both  in  paring,  boiling,  and  being  actually 
thrown  away,  than  potatoes  ;  and  there  are  few  cooks  but 
what  boil  twice  as  many  potatoes  every  day  as  are  wanted  ;  and 
fewer  still  that  do  not  throw  the  residue  away  as  totally  ulifit 
in  any  shape  for  the  next  day's  meal. 


3658.  Yet  if  they  would  take  the  trouble  to  beat  up  the  de- 
spised cold  potatoes  with  an  equal  quantity  of  flour,  they  would 
find  them  produce  a  much  lighter  dumpling  or  pudding  than 
they  can  make  with  flour  alone ;  and  by  the  aid  of  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  good  gravy,  they  will  provide  a  cheap  and  agree- 
able appendage  to  the  dinner  table. 

3659.  Bad  Butter  may  be  improved  greatly  by  dissolving  it 
thoroughly  in  hot  water;  let  it  cool,  then  skim  it  ofl',  and 
churn  again,  adding  a  little  good  salt  and  sugar.     A  small 


606  MRS.  bale's   receipts   for  the   milliox. 

quantity  can  be  tried  and  approved  before  doing  a  larger  one. 
The  water  should  be  merely  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter  or 
it  will  become  oily. — (See  ''Mrs.  Hale's  Cook  Book.") 


3660.  Dinners. — The  appearance  a  dinner-table  presents 
does  not  depend  so  much  upon  a  profuseness  of  viands,  as 
upon  the  neatness,  cleanliness,  and  well-studied  arrangement 
of  the  whole.  Taste,  if  well  directed,  may  produce  a  hand- 
some dinner ;  whereas  three  times  the  amount  of  money  may 
be  expended  upon  another,  and  yet  not  make  even  a  respect- 
able appearance. 


HOUSEHOLD   MANAGEMENT. 

3661.  Have  you  ever  observed  what  a  dislike  servants  have 
to  any  thing  cheap.  They  hate  saving  their  master's  money* 
I  tried  this  experiment  with  great  success  the  other  day. 


3662.  Finding  we  consumed  a  vast  deal  of  soap,  T  sat  down 
in  my  thinking  chair,  and  took  the  soap  question  into  consi- 
deration, and  found  reason  to  suspect  we  were  using  a  very 
expensive  article,  where  a  much  cheaper  one  would  serve  the 
purpose  better.  

3663.  I  ordered  half  a  dozen  pounds  of  both  sorts,  but 
took  the  precaution  of  changing  the  papers  on  which  the 
prices  were  marked  before  giving  them  into  the  hands  of  Betty. 

3664.  '*  Well,  Betty,  which  soap  do  you  find  washes  best  V 

3665.  '^Oh,  please  sir,  the  dearest,  in  the  blue  paper;  it 
makes  a  lather  as  well  again  as  the  other." 


3666.  "Well,  Betty,  you  shall  always  have  it  then.''  And 
thus  the  unsuspecting  Betty  saved  me  some  pounds  a-year,  and 
washed  the  clothes  better. — Rev.  Sidney  Smith. 


3667.  Receipt  for  Obtaining  Good  Servants. — Let  them 
observe  in  your  conduct  to  others  just-the  qualities  and  virtues 
that  you  would  desire  they  should  possess  and  practice  as 
respects  you.     Be  uniformly  kind  and  gentle. 


HOUSEHOLD   MANAGEMENT.  607 

3668.  If  you  reprove,  do  so  with  reason  and  with  temper. 


3669.  Be  respectable,  and  you  will  be  respected  by  them. 
Be  kind,  and  you  will  meet  kindness  from  them. 


36t0.   Consider  their  interests,  and  they  will  consider  yours. 
A  friend  in  a  servant  is  no  contemptible  thing. 


36T1.  Be  to  every  servant  a  friend  ;  and  heartless,  indeed, 
will  be  the  servant  w^ho  does  not  warm  in  love  to  you. 


86t2.  Four  important  rules  : 


36t3.  1.  A  suitable  place  for  everything,  and  every  thing 
in  its  place.  

36T4.  2.  A  proper  time  for  every  thing,  and  every  thing 
done  in  its  time.  

3615.  3.  A  distinct  name  for  every  thing,  and  every  thing 
called  by  its  name. 

36T6.  4.  A  certain  use  for  every  thing,  and  every  thing  put 
to  its  use.  

36Yt.  Oil-cloth  should  never  be  scrubbed  with  a  brush,  but 
after  being  first  swept,  it  should  be  cleansed  by  washing  with 
a  large  soft  cloth  and  lukewarm  or  cold  water.  On  no  account 
use  soap  or  hot  water,  as  either  will  bring  off  the  paint. 


3618.  Straw  Matting  may  be  cleaned  with  a  large  coarse 
cloth  dipped  in  salt  and  water,  and  then  wiped  dry  :  the  salt 
prevents  the  matting  from  turning  yellow. 


3619.   Oil  Paintings  hung  over  the  mantle-piece  are  liable 
to  wrinkle  with  the  heat. 


3680.  Ottomans  and  Sofas,  whether  covered  with  cloth, 
damask,  or  chintz,  will  look  much  the  better  for  being  cleaned 
occasionally  \yith  bran  and  flannel. 


608  MRS.  male's   receipts  for  the  milliox. 

36^1.  Furnititre  made  in  the  winter,  and  brought  from  a 
cold  warehouse  into  a  warm  apartment,  is  very  liable  to  crack. 


3682.  Rosewood  furniture  should  be  rubbed  gently  every 
day  with  a  clean  soft  cloth,  to  keep  it  in  order. 


BEVERAGES. 

3683.    Water,   pure,   sweet,  cool  water  is,  undoubtedly,  the 
most  healthful  drink  for  thirst. 


3684.  Bad  water  should  be  filtered. — (See  pages  42,  43.) 

3685.  Tea  and  coffee  are  the  best  and  least  hurtful  stimu- 
lants. '  

3686.  Liebig,  with  his  chemical  discoveries,  demonstrates 
that  they  have  become  necessaries  of  life  to  all  nations ;  that 
they  were  both  originally  met  with  amongst  nations  whose  diet 
is  chiefly  vegetable  ;  and  by  contributing  to  the  formation  of 
bile,  their  peculiar  functions  have  become  a  substitute  for 
animal  food  to  a  large  class  of  the  population  whose  consump- 
tion  of  meat  is  very  limited,  and  to  another  large  class  who 
are  unable  to  take  regular  exercise. 


368t.   In  makiyig  coffee,  observe  that  the  broader  the  bot- 
tom and  the  smaller  the  top  of  the  vessel,  the  better  it  will  be. 


3688.  Hiibstitute  for  Cream  in  Tea  or  Coffee. — Beat  the 
white  of  an  Qgg  to  a  froth,  put  to  it  a  very  small  lump  of 
butter,  and  niix  well.  Then  turn  into  it  gradually,  so  that  it 
may  not  curdle.  If  perfectly  done,  it  will  be  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  cream. — (See  page  352.) 


3689.  Iceland  Moss  Chocolate — For  the  Sick  Boom. — Ice- 
land moss  has  been  in  the  highest  repute  on  the  continent  as 
a  most  eificacious  remedy  in  incipient  pulmonary  complaints; 
combined  with  chocalate,  it  will  be  found  a  nutritious  article 
of  diet,  and  may  be  taken  as  a  morning  and  evening  beverage. 
Directions— ^'MiK  a  teaspoonful  of  the  chocolate  with  a  tea- 


BEVERAGES.  609 

spoonful  of  boiling  water  or  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
is  completely  dissolved. 


8690.  It  is  not  easy  to  persuade  laboring  men  tliat  water  is 
the  best  beverage.  Where  the  water  is  bad,  some  corrective 
or  palliative  will  be  had.  Then  home-brewed  beer  is  to  be 
commended.  

8691.  Beer  and  Beverages. — (See  *'  Mrs.  Hale's  New  Cook 
Book,"  page  39T.)  

3692.  To  restore  a  Bjirrel  of  Stale  or  Sour  jBeer.— Put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  hops,  and  two  pounds  of  sound  chalk 
into  the  bung-hole,  stop  it  close,  and  in  a  few  days  it  will  be 
fit  for  use.  

3693.  Or,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  may  be 
mixed  with  each  quart  as  it  is  used. 


3694.  To  give  New  Beer  the  Jlavor  of  Old, — Take  out  the 
bung,  and  put  into  the  cask  a  handful  of  pickled  cucumbers, 
or  a  sliced  Seville  orange.  Either  mode  will  add  an  apparent 
six  months  to  the  age  of  the  beer. 


3695.  Common  Beer, — Two  gallons  of  water,  a  large  hand- 
ful of  hops,  fresh  gathered  spruce  or  sweet  fern,  and  one  quart 
of  wheat  bran ;  boil  two  or  three  hours,  strain  and  stir  in, 
while  hot,  two  cups  of  molasses.  When  lukewarm,  pour  into  a 
clean  barrel,  and  add  a  pint  of  yeast.  Shake  it  well  together, 
and  use  next  day. 

3696.  To  give  Beer  a  rich  Flavor. — Put  six  sea-biscuits 
into  a  bag  of  hops,  and  put  them  in  the  cask. 


369Y.  Table  Beer,  cheap  and  wholesome. — Eight  bottles  of 
water,  one  quart  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  yeast,  one  tablespoon 
of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  and  bottled  in  twenty-four  hours. 


3698.  Table  Beer  from  Sugar. — To  four  pounds  of  coarse 
brown  sugar  add  ten  gallons  of  water  and  three  ounces  of 
hops.  Let  the  whole  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  then 
work  it  as  usual.     It  should  stand  a  week  or  ten  days  before 

89 


610  MRS.   bale's    EECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION 

being  drawn,  and  will  improve  daily  afterward  for  a  moderate 
time. 

3699.  Treacle  Beer. — Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  hops, 
and  boil  in  thirty-six  gallons  of  water  for  an  hour,  then  add 
fourteen  pounds  of  treacle,  and  a  little  yeast  to  work  it ;  fer- 
ment, and  bottle.  

3T00.  Summer  Drinks. — Ice  may.be  used  in  all  these 
beverages.  

3701.  Tamarind  Drink. — Boil  three  pints  of  water  with  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  tamarinds,  three  ounces  of  currants,  and 
two  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  till  about  a  third  has  evaporated. 
Strain,  add  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  which  is  to  be  removed  in 
half  an  hour,  then  cool. 


3T02.  Sangaree. — Mix  a  bottle  of  Marsala  wine  with  a 
bottle  and  a  half  of  iced  water,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and 
flavor  with  lemon-juice  and  grated  nutmeg. 


3103.  Curds  and  Whey  (cheap  method).— Add  six  grains 
of  citric  acid  to  a  wine-glassful  of  milk,  and  the  result  will  be 
a  pleasant  acidulous  whey,  and  a  fine  curd. 


3104.  Currant  Water. — Take  a  pound  of  currants,  and 
squeeze  into  a  quart  of  water ;  put  in  four  or  five  ounces  of 
pounded  sugar.  Mix  well,  strain,  and  ice,  or  allow  to  get 
cold.  

3105.  Eau  Sucri. — Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water,  and 
drink  cold.  

3106.  Lait  Sucri. — Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  sweeten  with  white 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon. 


3101.  Effervescing  Lemonade. — Boil  two  pounds  of  white 
sugar  with  a  pint  of  lemon-juice,  bottle  and  cork.  Pat  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  syrup  into  a  tumbler  about  three  parts  full  of 
cold  water,  add  twenty  grains  of  carbonate  of  soda  and  drink 
quickly. 


USEFUL   RECEIPTS  FOR  FAMILY   PRACTICE.  Gil 

3708.  Quince  Syrup. — Grate  quinces,  pass  the  p.nlp  through 
a  sieve,  then  set  before  the  fire  for  the  juice  to  settle  and  cla- 
rify;  strain,  and  add  a  pound  of  sugar  (boiled  down)  to  every 
four  ounces  of  juice ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cold, 
bottle  for  use.  A  tablespoonful  of  this  syrup  will  flavor  a 
pint  of  water.  

3t09.  Effervescing  Saline  Draughts.— White  sugar  pow- 
dered eight  ounces,  tartaric  acid  two  ounces,  sesquicarbonate 
of  soda  two  ounces,  essence  of  lemon  a  few  drops.  Mix  well 
and  keep  in  a  corked  bottle. 


3710.  Summer  Champagne. — To  four  parts  of  selter  water 
add  one  of  Moselle  wine  (or  hock),  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  into  a  wine-glassful  of  this  mixture  ;  an  ebulli- 
tion takes  place,  and  you  have  a  sort  of  champagne  which  is 
more  wholesome  in  hot  weather  than  the  genuine  wine  known 
by  that  name.  

3711.  An  excellent  Spring  Beverage. — The  yolk  of  eggs 
beaten  up,  lump  sugar  (quantum  sufficit),  Rhenish  wine  or 
not,  citric  acid,  powdered,  or  tartaric  acid  (small  quantity, 
exact  quantity  soon  found) ;  one  or  two  drops  of  essence  of 
lemon  on  a  lump  of  sugar,  to  make  it  mix  readily  with  the 
water ;  one  quart  of  water.  This  is  really  an  excellent,  agree- 
able, and,  without  the  wine,  an  inexpensive  beverage.  Good 
for  bilious  complaints. 


USEFUL  RECEIPTS  FOR  FAMILY  PRACTICE. 

37 12.  Prevention  of  Baldness. — Eau  de  Cologne  two  ounces, 
tincture  of  cantharides  two  drachms,  oil  of  rosemary,  oil  of 
nutmeg,  and  oil  of  lavender,  each  ten  drops.  To  be  rubbed 
on  the  bald  part  of  the  head  every  night. 


3713.  Cramp  in  Bathing. — For  the  cure  of  the  cramp  when 
swimming.  Dr.  Franklin  recommends  a  vigorous  and  violent 
shock  to  the  part  affected,  by  suddenly  and  forcibly  stretching 
out  the  leg,  which  should  be  darted,  out  of  the  water  into  the 
air  if  possible. 


612  MKS.  HALE'3    EECEIPT3    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

3714.  Biting  the  Nails. — This  is  a  habit  that  should  be  im- 
mediately corrected  in  children,  as,  if  persisted  in  for  any 
length  of  time,  it  permanently  deforms  the  nails. 


ST  15.  Dipping  the  finger-ends  in  some  bitter  tincture  will 
generally  prevent  children  from  putting  them  to  the  mouth ; 
but  if  this  fails,  as  it  sometimes  will,  each  finger-end  ought  to 
.  be  encased  in  a  finger-stall  until  the  propensity  is  eradicated. 

3T16.  Flour  of  Brimstone  is  a  mild  aperient  in  doses  of 
about  a  quarter  of  an  ounce :  it  is  best  taken  in  milk. 

3T17.  To  Fill  a  Decayed  Tooth. — Procure  a  small  piece  of 
gutta  percha,  drop  it  into  boiling  water,  then,  with  the  thumb 
and  finger,  take  off  as  much  as  you  suppose  will  fill  up  the 
tooth  nearly  level,  and  while  in  this  soft  state  press  it  into  the 
tooth;  then  hold  on  that  side  of  the  mouth  cold  water  two  or 
three  times,  which  will  harden  it. 


3718.  Cod-liver  oil. — Cod-liver  oil  is  neither  more  nor  less 
than  cod-oil  clarified ;  and  consequently  two-thirds  of  its 
medicinal  qualities  are  abstracted  thereby. 


3719.  Cod  oil  can  be  purchased  pure  at  any  wholesale  oil 
warehouse,  at  about  one-thirtieth  part  of  the  price  charged  for 
the  so-called  cod-liver  oil.*  Many  persons  who  have  used  cod- 
oil  pure  as  imported,  have  found  it  to  answer  much  better  than 
the  cod-liver  oil  purchased  of  a  druggist. 


3720.  The  best  vehicle  for  taking  cod-liver  oil  in,  is  new 
milk ;  and  the  disagreeable  flavor  of  the  drug  can  easily  be 
covered  by  the  addition  of  one  drachm  of  orange  peel  to  every 
eight  ounces  of  the  oil. 

3721.  To  prevent  Lockjaw,  from  a  Nail  run  into  the  Foot,  or 
any  other  injury. — Pour  some  turpentine  into  a  tin  cup  and 
hold  it  over  a  lighted  candle  or  the  fire  until  it  boils.  It  boils 
at  so  low  a  temperature  that  it  will  not  burn  when  applied  to 
the  skin.  Make  a  swab  by  wrapping  soft  muslin  or  linen 
round  a  stick.  Dip  this  in  the  turpentine  and  apply  it  to  the 
wound,  rubbing  it  in  carefully  for  some  time.  Apply  it  as 
warm  as  can  be  borne. — (See  page  375.) 


USEFUL   RECEIPTS   FOR   FAMILY   PRACTICE.  613 

8722.  Squinting, — Squinting  frequently  arises  from  the  un- 
equal strength  of  the  eyes,  the  weaker  eye  being  turned  away 
from  the  object,  to  avoid  the  fatigue  of  exertion.  Cases  of 
squinting  of  long  standing  have  often  been  cured  by  covering 
the  stronger  eye,  and  thereby  compelling"  the  weaker  one  to 
exertion.  

3723.  It  is  often  a  question  amongst  people  who  are  un- 
acquainted with  the  anatomy  and  physiology  of  man,  whether 
lying  with  his  head  exalted,  or  even  with  the  body,  is  most 
wholesome.  Most,  consulting  their  own  ease  on  this  point, 
argue  in  favor  of  that  which  they  prefer. 


8724.  Now,  although  many  delight  in  bolstering  up  their 
heads  at  night  and  sleep  soundly  without  injury,  yet  we  declare 
it  to  be-  a  dangerous  habit.  The  vessels  through  which  blood 
passes  from  the  heart  to  the  head,  are  always  lessened  in  the 
cavities  when  the  head  is  resting  in  bed  higher  than  the  body, 
therefore^  in  all  diseases  attended  with  fever,  the  head  should 
be  pretty  near  on  a  level  with  the  body ;  and  people  ought  to 
accustom  themselves  to  sleep  thus  to  avoid  danger. 


8725.  Dyeing  the  Hair. — It  maybe  stated  once  for  all  that 
this  practice  is  decidedly  injurious.  It  may  fail  altogether  in 
producing  the  desired  result ;  it  ie  never  unattended  by  a 
certain  amount  of  unpleavsant  circumstances,  and  frequently 
with  evil  results.  

3726.  In  the  first  place,  the  alteration  of  the  abnormal 
color,  so  far  as  the  general  aspect  of  the  face  is  concerned,  has 
an  effect  the  very  reverse  of  that  which  was  intended. 
Every  constituent  part  of  man  tends  to  make  the  human 
machine  one  harmonious  whole.  The  figure,  the  st^re,  the 
skin,  the  hair,  the  gait,  &c. 


8727.  Fair  hair  is  associated  with  a  sanguineous  and  lym- 
phatic temperament,  a  fine  and  white  skin,  blue  eyes,  and  a 
soft  and  mi-Id  expression. 


3728.  Black  hair,  on  the  contrary,  is  generally  connected 
with  a  bilious  habit  of  body,  a  muscular  and  nervous  temper- 


614  MRS.    HALE'S    receipts     for    the    TrnLLION 

ament,  a  dark  and  yellowish  skin,  lively  black  eyes,  and  a  bold, 
prond  air. 

3'r29.  Bed  hair  is  associated  with  a  peculiar  constitution, 
although  closely  approaching  to  the  fair  type.  In  this  variety 
the  skin  is  transparent,  fresh,  and  presents  a  peculiar  limpidity, 
which  belongs  exclusively  to  the  color  of  hair  mentioned. 

3T30.  The  Contrast. — If,  then,  from  the  impression  that  red 
hair  is  a  disfigurement,  it  is  dyed  black,  what  relation  can 
exist  between  this  new  color  and  the  soft  blue  eye,  and  a  skin 
so  fine  and  so  susceptible,  that  the  sun's  rays  seem  to  pene- 
trate it,  in  the  form  of  those  lentiginbus  spots  commonly  called 
freckles.  . 

3731.  Be  at  much  pains  to  keep  your  children's  .feet  dry 
and  warm.  Don't  bury  their  bodies  in  heavy  flannels  and 
wools,  and  leave  their  knees  and  legs  naked. 


3^132.  For  Nausea. — Three  drops  of  hartshorn  in  a  wine- 
glass of  water.  

3133.  For  SicJc  Headache. — One  teaspoonful  of  pulverized 
charcoal  and  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  in  very 
warm  water.  

3T34.  Decoction  of  Sarsaparilla. — Take  four  ounces  of  the 
root,  slice  it  down,  put  the  slices  into  four  pints  of  water, 
and  simmer  for  four  hours.  Take  out  the  sarsaparilla,  and 
beat  it  into  a  mash ;  put  it  into  the  liquor  again,  and  boil 
down  to  two  pints,  then  strain  and  cool  the  liquor.  Dose — a 
wine-glassful  three  times  a  day. 


3T35.  Use — to  purify  the  blood  after  a  course  of  mercury; 
or  indeed  ^whenever  any  taint  is  given  to  the  constitution, 
vitiating  the  blood,  and  producing  eruptive  affections. 


3736.  Cough  Syrup. — Sleep  for  twelve  hours  or  more  a 
teacupful  of  wild-cherry  bark  in  a  quart  of  water.  Add  sugar 
enough  to  make  it  quite  sweet  and  let  it  boil  to  a  syrup. 


3737.   Cough  Syrup — Very  Good, — Take  a  large  handful 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  615 

of  the  herb^  hoarliound,  amd  the  same  quantity  of  boneset. 
Steep  them  in  a  quart  of  water  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint. 
Then  strain  the  tea  and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  syrup  and  a  pint 
of  sugar.     Let  it  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours,  skimming  it. 

3138.  Cure  for  Pain  in  the  Ear. — Take  a  teaspoonful  of 
brown  sugar,  put  it  on  a  shovel  or  any  thing  that  you  can 
place  over  hot  coals  of  fire  until  it  gets  thick,  dissolve  it  in 
camphor,  and  drop  it  in  the  ear. 

3Y39.  Gingerbread  Aperients. — Gingerbread,  made  with 
oatmeal  or  with  barley  flour,  is  a  very  agreeable  aperient  for 
children.     Beware  of  giving  children  medicines  too  frequently. 

3140.  For  Bowel  Complaints. — One  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
one  ditto  of  brandy,  one  ditto  of  loaf  sugar,  mixed  together. 

3141.  Jaundice. — One  pennyworth  of  allspice,  ditto  of 
flour  of  brimstone,  ditto  of  turmeric  ;  these  to  be  well  pounded 
together,  and  afterward  to  be  mixed  with  half-a-pound  of 
molasses.     Two  table-spoonsful  to  be  taken  every  day. 


3142  Night  Sweats. — Drink  freely  of  cold  sage  tea;  said 
to  be  a  certain  remedy ;  or,  take  elixir  of  vitriol  in  a  little 
sweetened  water.     Dose  from  twenty  to  thirty  drops. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS,  RULl:S,  EtC. 

3143.  To  Cure  a  Soft  Corn  when  between  the  Toes. — A 
small  piece  of  cotton  wool  applied  fresh  every  morning — gives 
no  inconvenience,  is  cleanly,  and  efficacious.  Caslile  Soap 
placed  between  the  toes  is  both  cure  and  preve;;tive  of  soft 
corns. 

3144.  Excellent  Remedy  for  Lumbago. — Dip  a  piece  of 
flannel  in  scalding  water;  wring  it  out,  and  sprinkle  some  tur- 
pentine immediately  over  it,  and  apply  it  quickly  to  the  part 
affected  by  the  pain.  Repeat  this  process  a  few  times,  and  it 
will  aff'ord  certain  relief. 


616  MES.    HALE'S    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

3T45.  Burns  and  Scalds. — Cold  water  is  the  readiest, 
surest,  most  plentiful,  and,  for  these  reasons,  the  best  remedy 
for  burns  and  scalds.  Use  it  instantly,  it  will  remove  pain 
and  smarting ;  keep  a  cloth  wet  and  cold  upon  the  affected 
part  for  five  or  six  hours  after  the  injury  has  occurred  ;  a 
blister  will  never  rise,  and  the  skin  will  be  quite  free  from  pain 
afterward.— (See  109,  110.) 

8T46.  Scratches. — Trifling  as  scratches  often  seem,  they 
ought  never  to  be  neglected,  but  should  be  covered  and  pro- 
tected, and  kept  clean  and  dry,  until  they  have  completely 
healed. 

3T4  iT.  If  there  is  the  least  appearance  of  inflammation,  no 
time  should  be  lost  in  applying  a  large  bread  and  water  poul- 
tice, or  hot  flannels  repeatedly  applied. 


8T48.  Ringworm. — The  head  to  be  washed  twice  a  day  with 
soft  soap  and  warm  soft  water ;  when  dried,  the  places  to  be 
rubbed  with  a  piece  of  linen  rag  dipped  in  ammonia  from  gas 
tar;  the  patient  should  take  a  little  sulphur  and  molasses,  or 
some  other  general  aperient,  every  morning ;  brushes  and 
combs  should  be  washed  every  day,  and  the  ammonia  kept 
tightly  corked. — (See  page  99.) 


3T49.  Another  Cure  for  Eingworms. — Common  sulphur 
mixed  with  butter  and  pepper  till  it  is  a  salve :  apply  twice 
a  day.  

3750.  Invaluable  Ointment. — Obtain  a  pint  of  real  cream, 
let  it  simmer  over  the  fire,  or  on  the  side,  till  it  resembles 
butter,  and  forms  a  thick  oily  substance,  which  may  be  used  as 
ointment  for  fresh  or  old  wounds,  cracked  lips  or  hands. 


3T51.  To  avoid  catching  Cold. — Accustom  yourself  to  the 
use  of  sponging  with  cold  water  every  morning  on  first  gertting 
out  of  bed.  It  should  be  followed  with  a  good  deal  of  rub- 
bing with  a  wet  towel.  It  has  considerable  effect  in  giving 
tone  to  the  skin,  and  maintaining  a  proper  action  in  it,  and 
thus  proves  a  safeguard  to  the  injurious  influence  of  cold  and 
Budden  changes  of  temperature. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS,   ETC.  617 

3752.  Friction  of  the  body  is  one  of  the  most  gentle  and 
salutary  kinds  of  exercise,  cleaning  the  skin,  dispersing  stag- 
nating humors,  promoting  perspiration,  strengthening  the 
fibres,  and  increasing  the  warmth  and  energy  of  the  whole 
body. 

8753.  Depilatory. — Take  of  sulphate  of  sodium,  or  hydro- 
sulphate  of  soda,  crystallized,  three  parts  ;  quick-lime  in  pow- 
der, ten  ditto ;  starch,  ten  ;  mix.  This  powder,  mixed  with 
a  little  water,  and  applied  over  the  skin,  acts  so  rapidly  as  a 
depilatory,  that  if  it  be  removed  in  a  minute  or  two  after  its 
application  by  means  of  a  wooden  knife,  the  surface  of  the  skin 
will  be  entirely  deprived  of  hair. 


3754.  By  this  process,  the  removal  of  hair  becomes  so 
simple,  rapid,  and  safe  in  operation,  that  it  will  possibly  super- 
cede the  use  of  the  razor  in  many  cases ;  it  is  only  after  several 
days  that  the  hair  begins  again  to  appear. 


3755.  Brandy  and  Salt  as  a  Medicine. — It  is  useful- in  the 
reduction  of  inflammation  of  fractured  limbs  or  bruises,  the 
alleviation  of  incurable  sores,  cure  of  ringworms,  headache, 
toothache,  inflammation  in  the  eyes,  ague,  colic,  pains  in  the 
side,  chilblains,  burns  and  scalds,  cancers,  sprains,  open  sores, 
asthmas,  and  complaints  of  the  lungs. 


3756.  Fill  a  bottle  three-quarters  full  with  good  brandy, 
after  which  add  as  much  salt  as  will  fill  the  bottle  for  cork- 
ing; shake  it  together  twenty  minutes  ;  let  the  salt  settle  to 
the  bottom,  and  do  not  shake  it  up  before  using.  The  clearer 
it  is  used  the  better.  

3757.  A  bottle  of  this  preparation  should  be  constantly 
kept  ready  for  use,  as  its  virtues  have  been  fully  tested.  When 
taken  inwardly,  for  asthma,  bowel  complaints,  &c.,  mix  two 
spoonfuls  with  equal  quantity  of  warm  water. 


3758.  Cancer. — Five  out  of  six  cases  have  been  cured  by 
brandy  and  salt,  described  above.  The  pain  is  very  severe, 
but  temporary.  

8759.  Poison,  from  vines,  may  be  cured  by  bathing  in  whis- 


618  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  milliox. 

key  and  cream,  and  cooling  with  rye  flour  ;  if  obstinate,  use  a 
strong  solution  of  copperas. 


3760.  Simple  Remedy  for  a  Pain  in  the  Side. — At  bed- 
time take  a  fresh  cabbage-leaf,  hold  it  near  the  fire  till  quite 
warm,  and  then  apply  it  to  the  part  affected,  binding  it  tight 
with  a  cloth  round  the  body ;  let  it  remain  for  twelve  hours 
or  more,  when  it  will  generally  be  found  to  have  removed  the 
pain. 

8761.  If  not  entirely  removed,  it  will  be  well  to  repeat  the 
application  of  a  fresh  leaf,  allowing  it  to  remain  on  the  same 
time  as  the  first.  

3762.   Boils.— See  page  109. 


3763.  Carbuncles. — These  should  be  brought  to  a  head  by 
warm  poultices,  by  fermentation  with  hot  water,  or  by  stimu- 
lating plasters.  When  ripe,  they  should  be  discharged  by  a 
needle,  or  the  lancet.  But  this  should  not  be  attempted  until 
they  are  fully  proved. 

3764.  Constitutional  Treatment. — Stimulating  food  and 
drinks,  such  as  ale,  porter,  champagne  and  other  wines. 
Strong  beef  tea  should  be  taken  freely — it  is  very  nourishing. 

3765.  Carbuncles  reduce  the  strength  greatly. — To  recover 
this,  Peruvian  bark  and  sea-bathing  are  recommended. 


3766.  An  inflamed  bunion  should  be  poulticed,  and  larger 
shoes  be  worn.  Iodine,  twelve  grains  ;  lard  or  spermaceti  oint- 
ment, half  an  ounce,  makes  a  capital  ointment  for  bunions.  It 
should  be  rubbed  on  gently  twice  or  thrice  a-day. — See  page  97. 


3767.  Frost-Bitten  Feet. — Dissolve  half  pound  alum  in  one 
gallon  warm  water,  and  soak  fifteen  minutes. 


37G8.  Valuable  Aperient  iHlls.—Ynnv  drachms  C  r:n.e 
soap,  four  drachms  soceoiriiie  aloes  ;  make  into  the  plll^  with 
a  siiiflcient  quantity  of  syrup.  Two  or  lhr.ee  may  be  taken 
when  costive. 

3769.  Good  Eye-Water. — ^Ten  teaspoonsful  of  water,  one 
ditto  of  brandy,  and  one  ditto  of  vinegar. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS,   ETC.  619 

S110.  Lip  Salve. — Spermaceti  ointment,  half  an  ounce  ;  bal- 
sam of  Peru,  one  quarter  of  a  drachm.  Mix.  It  is  not  couleur  di' 
7^ose,  but  it  will  cure — often  with  but  a  single  application.  Apply 
a  thin  coating  with  the  forefinger,  just  before  getting  into  bed 


^^^1,  An  Excellent  Tooth  Poivder. — Cuttle-fish,  prepared 
chalk,  and  orris-root,  commingled  together  in  equal  quantities, 
which  any  one  may  procure  separately  from  any  respectable 
chemist,  and  mix  himself. 


31 Y  2.    To  remove    Tartar  from  the  Teeth. — Strawberries, 
ripe,  or  dried  and  powdered,  are  excellent  to  clean  the  teeth. 


31 T  3.  To  drive  away  Bats. — Potash  strewn  around  rat 
holes,  will  drive  the  vermin  away. 

3114.  To  kill  Flies. — Cobalt  in  powder,  moistened  with 
hot  water,  and  covered  with  a  little  sugar. 

3115.  Gum  Water. — It  is  a  fact  not  generally  known  that 
gum  should  be  dissolved  in  vinegar  instead  of  water,  especially 
when  it  is  wanted  for  immediate  use. 


3116.  To  remove  Water-stains  from  Black  Crape. — When 
a  drop  of  water  falls  on  a  black  crape  vail  or  collar,  it  leaves  a 
conspicuous  white  mark.  To  obliterate  this,  spread  the  crape 
on  a  table  (laying  on  it  a  large  book  or  a  paper  weight  to 
keep  it  steady),  and  place  underneath  the  stain  a  piece  of  old 
black  silk.  With  a  large  camePs  hair  brush  dipped  in  common 
ink,  go  over  the  stain ;  and  then  wipe  oflf  the  ink  with  a  little 
bit  of  old  soft  silk.  It  will  dry  immediately,  and  the  white 
mark  will  be  seen  no  more. 


3111.    Copper  in  liquids  maybe  detected  by  spirits  of  harts- 
horn, which  turns  them  blue. 


3118.  Arsenic  may  be  detected  by  a  solution  of  blue  vitriol 
drop])ed  into  the  suspected  liquid,  which  will  turn  green,  if 
arsenic  be  present.  

3119.  To  remove  Ink  Stains  from  Silver. — The  tops  and 


6SK)  MRfll.   HALE'S    RECEIPTS   FOB   THE   MILLION. 

<)ther  portions  of  silver  inkstands  frequently  become  discolored 
with  ink,  which  is  difficult  to  remove  by  ordinary  means.  It 
may,  however,  be  complately  eradicated  by  making  a  little 
chlorid  of  lime  into  a  paste  with  water,  and  rubbing  it  upon 
the  stains.  

3Y80.  To  remove  Ink  Stains  from  Woody  do. — As  much 
oxalic  acid  as  will  lay  on  a  sixpence,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  hot  water ;  lay  some  on  the  wood,  and  rub  hard  with  a 
cork  until  the  stain  disappears  ;  then  wash  and  f  epolish.  The 
above  will  remove  the  stain,  without  injury  to  the  color  of  the 
wood,  mahogany  or  any  other  kind.  It  also  cleans  the  brass- 
work.  

3781.  To  Clean  Plate. — Take  of  cream  of  tartar,  alum,  and 
common  salt,  each  an  ounce,  and  boil  in  a  gallon  of  water, 
throw  the  plate  in  and  boil ;  when  taken  out  and  rubbed  dry 
it  will  look  beautiful.  Plate,  when  laid  aside,  will  generally 
tarnish,  but  if  cleaned  by  this  method,  at  stated  periods,  it 
will  always  look  well.  ___ 

8782.  Washing  Paint. — The  best  method  to  wash  paint  is 
to  rub  some  Bath-brick  fine,  and  when  you  have  rubbed  some 
soap  on  the  flannel,  dip  it  in  the  brick.  This  will  remove  the 
grease  and  dirt  speedily,  without  injury. 


8183.  Glue  Paste. — Instead  of  pure  water  for  mixing  the 
fiour,  use  glue-water,  to  which  add  some  alum  and  resin  to 
keep  it  from  turning.     It  must  be  made  very  thick. 


8784.  Whenever  oil  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  artificial 
light,  it  should  be  kept  free  from  all  exposure  to  atmospheric 
air ;  as  it  is  apt  so  absorb  considerable  quantities  of  oxvygen. 
If  oil  is  very  coarse  or  tenacious,  a  very  small  quantity  of  oil 
of  turpentine  may  be  added. 

3785.  Bv^s. — Spirits  of  naphtha  rubbed  with  a  small 
painter's  brush  into  every  part  of  a  bedstead  is  a  certain  way 
of  getting  i'id  of  bugs. — (See  p.  87.) 


8786.   Calcareous  Deposits  in  Boilers. — In  a  common  tea- 


MlSCELLANEOtrS   EECEIPTS,   ETC.  621- 

kettle,  potatos  boiled  a  few  times,  will  remove  the  calcareous 
deposits,  and  a  few  oyster-shells,  kept  constantly  in  the  kettle, 
will  prevent  future  accumulations. 


8787.  To  remove  the  Stoppers  of  Glass  Bottles. — Dip  a 
piece  of  linen  or  cloth  in  hot  water,  and  wrap  it  tightly  round 
the  neck  of  the  bottle.  In  a  few  minutes  the  stopper  will 
probably  be  loosened  ;  if  not,  repeat  the  application.  I  have 
never  found  this  method  to  fail. 


3788.  How  to  get  a  Tight  Eing  off  a  Finger. — Thread  a 
needle,  flat  in  the  eye,  with  a  strong  thread,  pass  the  head  of 
the  needle  with  care  under  the  ring,  and  pull  the  thread 
through  a  few  inches  toward  the  hand ;  wrap  the  long  end  of 
the  thread  tightly  round  the  finger,  regularly  all  down  to  the  nail^ 
to  reduce  its  size.  Then  lay  hold  of  the  short  end,  and  un- 
wind it.  

3789.  The  thread  repassing  against  the  ring,  will  gradually 
remove  it  from  the  finger.  This  never-failing  method  will  re- 
move the  tightest  ring  without  difficulty,  however  much  swollen 
the  finger  may  be.  

3790.  Gleaning  Knives. — Mutton  fat  made  hot,  and  put  on  a 
leather  or  buff-board,  with  emery-dust — not  powder,  as  that  is 
too  sharp — well  rubbed  in  with  an  old  brush,  is  the  best  way 
of  giving  a  knife  as  good  a  polish  and  edge  as  any  razor. 

3791.  To  restore  the  Golor  to  Mahogany. — Wash  well  with 
eoap  and  water,  and  then  polish  daily  with  the  following  oil : 
Take  half  an  ounce  of  alkanet  root,  cut  small,  and  add  to  a 
pint  of  linseed  oil ;  when  this  has  stood  for  a  week,  add  half 
an  ounce  of  powdered  gum-arabic,  and  an  ounce  of  shellac 
varnish ;  let  them  stand  in  a  bottle  by  the  fire  for  a  week,  then 
strain.     Rub  well  in.  

3792.  Rice  Flour  Gem.ent. — An  excellent  cement  may  bo 
made  from  rice  flour,  which  is  at  present  used  for  that  purpose 
in  China  and  Japan.  It  is  only  necessary  to  mix  the  rice  flour 
intimately  with  cold  water,  and  gently  simmer  it  over  a  fire, 
when  it  readily  forms  a  delicate  and  durable  cement,  not  only 
answering  all  the  purposes  of  common  paste,  but  admirably 


G22  MRS.  bale's  receipts  fob  the  million 

adapted  for  joining  together  paper,  cards,  &c.,  in  forming  the 
Yarious  beautiful  and  tasteful  ornaments  which  affords  much 
employment  and  amusement  to  the  ladies. 


3193.  When  made  of  the  consistence  of  plaster-clay,  models, 
busts,  bas-relievos,  &c.  may  be  formed  of  it,  and  the  articles, 
when  dry,  are  susceptible  of  high  polish,  and  very  durable. — 
(See  p.  TO.)  

3194.  Oil  of  Lavender. — A  few  drops  in  a  library  will 
keep  the  books  from  moulding.  A  single  drop  of  the  same 
will  prevent  a  pint  of  ink  from  mouldiness  for  any  length  of 
time.  Paste  may  be  kept  from  mould  entirely  by  this  addi- 
tion ;  and  leather  is  also  effectually  secured  from  injury  by  the 
same  agency;  

3195.  Ink. — To  make  five  gallons  of  good  ink,  costing  but 
twelve-and-a-half  cents,  take  half  a  pound  of  extract  of  log- 
wood, and  dissolve  it  in  five  gallons  of  hot  water,  and  add  half 
an  ounce  of  bichromate  potash.     Strain  and  bottle  it. 

3196.  Blue  Tracing  Ink. — Indigo  tied  in  a  flannel  bag, 
moistened  with  water.  Put  a  lump  of  white  sugar  into  an 
egg-cup,  and  squeeze  out  the  blue  on  it;  the  sugar  stiffens  it, 
so  as  to  prevent  its  running,  and  the  color  depends  on  the 
quantity  of  water  used.     Use  a  quill  pen. 


3191.  Marking  Linen,  preparation. — The  preparation  used 
for  wetting  linen,  previous  to  marking  it  with  ink,  is  a  drachm 
of  salt  of  tartar  in  one  and  a  half  ounces  af  water. 


3198.  Economy  in  Candles. — If  you  would  burn  a  candle 
all  night,  unless  you  use  the  following  precaution,  it  is  ten  to 
one  an  ordinary  candle  will  gutter  away  in  an  hour  or  two, 
sometimes  to  the  endangering  the  safety  of  a  house.  This 
may  be  avoided  by  placing  as  much  common  salt,  finely  pow- 
dered, as  will  reach  from  the  tallovr^  to  the  bottom  of  the  black 
part  of  the  wick  of  a  partly-burnt  candle,  when,  if  the  same 
be  lit,  it  will  burn  very  slowly,  yielding  sufiicient  light  for  a 
bed-chamber ;  the  salt  will  gradually  sink  as  the  tallow  is  con- 
sumed, the  melted  tallow  being  drawn  through  the  salt,  and 
consumed  in  the  wick. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS,   ETC.  023 

3799.  Deafjiess. — Take  three  drops  of  a  sheep^s  gall,  warm, 
and  drop  it  into  the  ear  on  going  to  bed.  The  ear  mnst 
be  thoroughly  syringed  with  warm  soap  and  water  in  the 
morning.  

3800.  Times  of  Application. — The  gall  must  be  applied 
for  three  successive  nights.  It  is  only  efficacious  when  the 
deafness  is  produced  by  cold.  The  most  convenient  way  of 
warming  the  gall  is  by  holding  it  in  a  silver  spoon  over  the 
flame  of  a  candle. — (See  p.  95.) 


3801.  For  Seartburn,  &c. — Orange  juice  (of  one  orange), 
water  and  lump  sugar  to  flavor,  and  in  proportion  to  acidity 
of  orange,  bicarbonate  of  soda,  about  half  a  teaspooful.  Mix 
orange  juice,  water  and  sugar  together  in  a  tumbler,  then  put 
in  the  soda,  stir,  and  the  effervescence  ensues. 


3802.  Remedy  for  Rheumatism,  Lumbago ,  Sprains,  Chil- 
blains, (before  they  are  broken)  Bruises,  and  Bites  of 
Insects. — One  raw  ^g^  well  beaten,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  spirits 
of  wine,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  camphor.  These  ingredients 
to  be  beaten  well  together,  then  put  in  a  bottle  and  shaken  for 
ten  minutes,  after  which,  to  be  corked  down  tightly  to  exclude 
the  air.     In  half  an  hour  it  is  fit  for  use. 


3803.  How  to  use  it. — To  be  well  rubbed  in,  two,  three,  or 
four  times  a  day. — For  rheumatism  in  the  head,  to  be  rubbed 
at  the  back  of  the  neck  and  behind  the  ears. — (See  page  101.) 


3804.  Asthma. — The  following  is  recommended  as  a  relief. 
— Two  ounces  of  the  best  honey,  and  one  ounce  of  castor  oil 
mixed.  A  teaspoonful  to  be  taken  night  and  morning. — (See 
page  103.)  

3805.  For  Scurf  in  the  Heads  of  Infants.' — Lard,  two 
ounces ;  sulphuric  acid,  diluted,  two  drachms ;  rub  them 
together,  and  anoint  the  head  once  a  day. 


3806.  For  Moth  on  the  Skin. — These  unpleasant,  discolor- 
ations  may  be  entirely  removed  by  a  wash  made  of  borax  and 
vinegar. 


624  MR3.   kale's    RECEIPTg    FOR    THE    MILLION 

3807.  Sunburn. — A  little  scraped  horseradish  mixed  in 
warm  milk  and  rubbed  on  the  face  and  hands  will  whiten  the 
skin.  

^  3808.  Cold  Cream. — A  piece  of  sperm  candle  two  inches 
long,  a  small  cake  of  white  wax,  three  table  spoonsful  of  fresh 
sweet  oil ;  just  melt  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  it,  and  take  it  off 
stirring  it  till  it  is  cold.  Before  it  is  quite  cold  stir  in  any 
perfume  you  prefer. — (See  page  136.) 

3809.  A  New  Method  for  the  Hair. — Carefully  avoid  all 
lotions  ajttd  pomades.  

3810.  Keep  the  hair  and  scalp  clean  by  the  use  of  the  brush 
and  comb.  

3811.  Twice  a  day,  at  least,  comb  it  out  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  air  may  pass  through  it  freely  ;  then,  with  the  fingers, 
moisten  the  roots  with  soft  water,  at  the  same  time  gently 
rubbing  the  scalp. 


3812.  This  will  not  only  fasten  and  renovate  the  old  hair, 
but  actually  bring  out  a  fine  new  suit ;  the  length  of  time  for 
this  purpose  varying  with  the  health  and  constitution  of  the 
patient.  

3813.  Should  the  hair  become  too  dry,  lessen  the  quantity 
of  water  employed,  and  use  a  very  little  cocoanut  or  perfumed 
castor  oil. 

This  receipt  is  also  invaluable  as  a  remedy  for  headache  or 
neuralgia.  „..__««. 

3814.  Headache — A  Sure  JRemedy. -^^Wet  paper,  white  or 
brown,  bound  tightly  on  the  forehead  with  a  bandage  or  ker- 
chief, the  part  pressing  over  the  forehead  to  be  also  made  wet 
with  cold  water,  though  not  dripping.  This  process,  if  followed 
nightly,  will  entirely  prevent  headaches,  and  also  keep  the  fore- 
head free  from  wrinkles.     Try  it. 


3815.  To  Promote  the  Growth  of  Whiskers,  Mustaches ^ 
&c, — The  best  method  to  force  the  growth  of  whiskers  and 
mustaches,  is  to  shave  the  parts  frequently.  Use  as  a  stimu- 
lant the  asheB  of  burned  tobacco,  and  bay-water. 


MISCELLANEOUS   BECEIPTS,   ETC.  625 

3816.   Cosmetics  generally. — (See  page  152  and  on.) 


3811.  The  Complexion  can  only  be  preserved  in  freshness, 
softness  and  beauty,  by  cleanliness,  regular  exercise,  temper- 
ance, a  plain  diet  and  pure  air,  and  a  cheerful  temper. 


3818.  Offensive  Breath, — Use  the  concentrated  solution  of 
chlorid  of  soda.  From  two  to  five  drops  of  it  in  a  wine-glasg 
full  of  pure  spring  water,  taken  immediately  after  the  opera- 
tions of  the  morning  are  completed. 


3819.  In  some  cases  the  odor  arising  from  carious  teeth  is 
combined  with  that  of  the  stomach.  If  the  mouth  be  well 
rinsed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  the  solution  of  the  chlorid  in  a 
tumbler  of  water,  the  bad  odor  of  the  teeth  will  be  removed. 


3820.  Breath  tainted  by  Onions. — Leaves  of  parsley,  eaten 
with  vinegar,  will  prevent  the  disagreeable  consequences  of 

eating  onions.  

%.  ' 

3821.  Toothache. — Put  a  small  piece  of  the  inside  of  a  nut- 
gall  into  the  hollow  tooth,  and  replace  by  another  bit  every 
U.alf-hour,  as  long  as  white  matter  comes  away  with  the  piece 
taken  out. 

3822..  Black  eyes  may  be  cured  by  a  lotion  made  of  equal 
parts  of  gin,  vinegar,  and  cold  water  mixed.  Bathe  the  eye 
for  ten  or  iSfteen  minutes,  and  repeat  in  an  hour  if  the  pain 
continues.  

3823.  Bilious  Disorders. — If  a  person  is  bilious,  it  is  gene- 
rally owing  to  errors  in  regimen.  Let  these  be  reformed,  and 
the  complaints  will  cease.  But  if  a  person  would  be  always 
bilious,-  let  him  be  often  taking  calomel,  or  blue  pill,  or  active 
purges.  Lee's  antibilious,  &c.,  and  he  will  certainly  succeed : 
the  soundest  liver  will  not  be  proof  against  such  remedies  for 
bile. 

3824.  Remedy  for  Bile. — The  yolks  of  eggs  taken  fasting. 
If  required,  beat  up  the  egg  with  a  little  sugar  and  lemon- 
juice. 

40  ^  . 


MES.    HALE  9    EHCEIPTS    FOR    THS    MILLION. 

3825.  Household  HintSj  etc. — (See  page  210.) 


3826.  Hard  Water. — When  water  is  bard,  and  will  not 
readily  unite  with  soap,  it  will  always  be  proper  to  boil  it 
before  use. — (See  pages  42,  43 ;  also  "  General  Washing," 
pages  46,  4t.) 

3827.  Materials  for  Washing, — The  meal  of  many  kinds  of 
seed  may  be  used  for  washing,  as  well  as  various  kinds  of 
bran.  That  of  almonds,  which,  on  account  of  its  oil,  is  re- 
markably soft,  is  employed  at  present  for  washing  the  hands, 
by  those  who  are  desirous  of  having  a  white  delicate  skin. 
Clath,  the  colors  of  which  easily  fade,  and  which  will  neither 
endure  soap  nor  hard  rubbing,  may  be  washed  extremely  well 
with  bran.  Our  fullers,  therefore,  and  stocking-manufacturers, 
use  oats,  barley,  and  bran  meal,  especially  when  they  wish  the 
cloth  to  be  slowly  milled. 


3828.  To  Wash  White  Lace. — Cover  a  glass  bottle  with 
calico  or  linen,  and  then  tack  the  lace  or  collar  smoothly  upon 
it,  rub  it  with  soap,  and  cover  it  with  calico.  Boil  it  for 
twenty  minutes  in  soft  water ;  let  all  dry  together,  and  the 
lace  will  be  found  to  be  ready  for  use. 


3829.  A  long  piece  of  lace  must  be  wound  round  and  round 
the  bottle,  the  edge  of  each  round  a  little  above  the  last,  and 
a  few  stitches  to  keep  it  firm  at  the  beginning  and  end  will  be 
found  sufficient,  but  a  collar  will  require  more  tacking  to  keep 
it  in  its  place. — (See  page  53.) 


3830.  Bleaching  Liquid. — Take  one  pound  of  chlorid  of 
lime,  empty  it  into  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  on  it  one  gallon  of 
water;  stir  it  well  with  a  stick  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  let  it 
settle,  and  pour  off  the  clear  liquor  into  clean  bottles,  and 
cork  them  up.  A  tumblerful  of  this  preparation,  added  to  a 
tubful  of  water,  in  which  the  clothes  are  rinsed,  will  add  very 
much  to  their  whiteness. 


3831.  Washing  Windows. — The  nicest  article  for  washing 
windows  is  deer  skin,  as  no  particles  come  off  to  adhere  to  the 
glass  and  make  it  look  as  if  washed  with  feathers. 


HOUSEHOLD    HINTS,    ETC.  62T 

3832.  Wash-leather  and  a  bowl  of  suds  are  all  that  are 
necessary.  Wipe  the  glass  first  with  the  wet  cloth  or  leather, 
and  after  it  has  become  dry,  with  the  clean  cloth ;  and  it  will 
look  clear,  and  far  more  so  than  if  rinsed  in  a  dozen  pails  of 
water. 

3833.  Cleaning  Kid  Gloves. — Lay  the  gloves  flat  on  a  towel, 
and  wash  them  with  a  piece  of  clean  flannel  and  the  best 
yellow  soap,  being  careful  to  squeeze  the  flannel  as  dry  as  it  is 
possible  10  use  it.  When  the  dirt  is  removed,  with  another 
piece  of  flannel  wash  them  lightly  with  plain  milk. — (See 
page  53.)  

3834.  Stains  may  be  removed  from  the  hands  by  w^ashing 
them  in  a  small  quantity  of  oil  of  vitriol  and  cold  water  with- 
out soap.  

3835.  Cleaning  Velvets.-^ A  very  simple  method  of  cleaning 
velvets  is  to  procure  a  small  square  of  pipe-clay  (such  as  the 
soldiers  use  to  clean  their  uniforms  with)  and  scrape  a  little 
off'  upon  the  velvet ;  then  take  a  brush,  made  of  the  same 
material  as  the  carpet-whisk,  and  lightly  brush  it  off.  This 
raises  the  pile,  and  restores  the  bloom. 

3836.  SilJc  articles  should  not  be  kept  folded  in  white 
papers,  as  the  chlorid  of  lime  used  in  bleaching  the  paper 
will  impair  the  color  of  the  silk. 


383T.  Papier-Mache  articles  should  be  washed  with  a 
sponge  and  cold  water  without  soap,  dredged  with  flour  while 
damp,  and  polished  with  a  flannel. 

3838.  Worsted  and  Lambs^-Wool  Stockings  should  never 
be  mended  with  worsted  or  lambs'-wool,  because  the  latter 
being  new  it  shrinks  more  than  the  stockings,  and  draws  them 
up  till  the  toes  become  short  and  narrow,  and  the  heels  have 
no  shape  left.  

3839.  In  choosing  Paper  for  a  room,  avoid  that  which 
has  a  variety  of  colors,  or  a  large,  showy  figure,  as  no  furni- 
ture can  appear  to  advantage  with  sucli.  Large  figured 
papering  makes  a  small  room  look  smaller. 


628  MR3.    HALES    EECEIPTS     FOE   THE    MILLION. 

3840.  Bright  green  colors  are  dangerous  when  first  put  on, 
because  poisons  are  used  in  the  coloring  matter. 


3841.  Grilt  frames  may  be  protected  from  flies  and  dust  by 
oiled  tarlatan  pinned  over  them.  Tarlatan  already  prepared, 
may  be  purchased  at  the  upholsterers'.  If  it  cannot  be  pro- 
cured, it  is  easily  made  by  brushing  boiled  oil  over  cheap 
tarlatan.  It  is  an  excellent  material  for  keeping  dust  from 
books,  vases,  woodwork,  and  every  description  of  household 
ornament. — (See  page  18.) 


3842.  To  Pack  Glass  or  China. — Procure  some  soft  straw 
or  hay  to  pack  them  in,  and  if  they  are  to  be  sent  a  long  way, 
and  are  heavy,  the  hay  or  straw  should  be  a  little  damp,  which 
will  prevent  them  slipping  about.  Let  the  largest  and  heaviest 
things  be  always  put  undermost,  in  the  box  or  hamper. 


3843.  Let  there  be  plenty  of  straw,  and  pack  the  articles 
tight ;  but  never  attempt  to  pack  up  glass  or  china  which  is 
of  much  consequence,  till  it  has  bee-n  seen  done  by  some  one 
used  to  the  job.  The  expense  will  be  but  trifling  to  have  a 
person  to  do  it  who  understands  it,  and  the  loss  may  be  great 
if  articles  of  such  value  are  packed  up  in  an  improper  manner. 


3844.  To  Polish  Enameled  Leather, — Two  pints  of  the 
best  cream,  one  pint  of  linseed  oil ;  make  them  each  luke- 
warm, and  then  mix  them  well  together. 


DIETETIC   MAXIMS. 

8845.  A  healthy  appetite  is  to  be  acquired  by  early  rising, 
regular  exercise  in  the  open  air,  a  cheerful  mind,  and  absti- 
nence from  intoxicating  liquors. 


3846.  The  food  should  be  eaten  slowly,  so  that  it  be  well 
masticated  and  mixed  with  the  saliva. 


3847.  Animal  food  is  sooner  digested  in  the  stomach  than 
vegetable  ;  but  it  is  more  stimulating  or  heating  to  the  system. 


DIETETIC   MAXIMS.  629 

Flesh  that  has  been  loDg  salted,  dried  hams,  beef,  &c.,  are  less 
easily  digested  and  less  nutritive  than  fresh  meat. 


3848.  Farinaceous  and  vegetable  food,  generally,  is  slower 
of  digestion  than  animal,  but  it  is  less  heating ;  many  kinds 
of  vegetable  food  are  very  nutritive. 


3849.  Solid  food,  or  food  of  a  certain  fibrous  or  puipy  con- 
sistence, is  more  fitted  for  digestion  in  the  stomach  than  rich 
Boups,  jellies,  and  all  highly  concentrated  sauces.  The  latter 
are  rendered  more  digestible  by  the  addition  of  bread 


3850.  Fish  are  not  so  nourishing  as  the  flesh  of  land  ani- 
mals,'and  with  many  stomachs  entirely  disagree.  The  white 
fish,  when  in  season,  are  generally  lighter,  and  less  apt  to 
disagree  with  the  stomach  than  the  red. 

3851.  In  summer  the  food  should  consist  principally  of 
vegetables  ;  in  winter,  a  larger  amount  of  animal  matter  may 
be  taken,  especially  by  the  laborer. 


3852.  Boiling  renders  food  more  tender  and  digestible,  but 
it  deprives  it  of  a  considerable  portion  of  its  nutritive  prin- 
ciple.   

3853.  Animal  food  should  not  be  over  boiled  ;  vegetables 
should  be  boiled  until  perfectly  tender. 


3854.  Roasting  dissipates  less  of  the  nutritive  parts  of  the 
meat.  Roasted  meat  is,  therefore,  more  nourishing  than 
boiled,  but  much  more  stimulating. 


3855.  Bread  constitutes  a  wholesome  addition  to  all  our 
meals.  It  should  be  perfectly  raised,  fully  baked,  and  one 
day  old.  ^ 

3856.  All  excess  in  eating  should  be  avoided,  but  the  quan- 
tity of  food  proper  to  be  taken  at  one  time  depends  entirely 
on  the  constitution,  age,  habits,  degree  of  health,  season  of  the 
year,  climate,  &c.  The  best  guide  is  to  be  found  in  the  calls 
of  a  healthy  appetite. 


630  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

3857.  Health,  and  strength  of  body,  depend  upon  the  health 
of  the  stomach,  and  consequent  perfection  of  the  digestive 
powers,  much  more  than  upon  the  quantity  or  even  quality  of 
the  food  taken.  

3858.  Water  is  the  most  wholesome  drink.  Toast  and 
water,  sweetened  water,  or  water  with  a  slight  addition  of  a 
vegetable  acid,  are  useful  diluents  during  the  summer. 


3859.  Distilled  and  fermented  liquors  impede  digestion ; 
and,  when  drank  to  any  great  extent,  invariably  destroy  the 
tone  of  the  stomach,  and  of  the  system  generally. 


3860.  The  stomach  ought  not  to  be  over  distended  with 
fluids  during,  immediately  preceding,  nor  after  a  meal. 


3861.  When  the  stomach  is  very  weak,  very  little  fluid 
should  be  taken  during  or  after  eating.  Dry  solid  food 
requires  more  dilution  than  that  which  is  juicy  or  fluid. 


3862.  Exercise  should  be   used  in  the  intervals  between 
meals,  but  not  immediately  before  or  after  them. 


HINTS  TO  MECHANICS  AND  WORKMEN. 

3863.  If  you  would  avoid  the  diseases  which  your  particular 
trades  and  work  are  liable  to  produce,  attend  to  the  following 
hints :  

3864.  Keep,  if  possible,  regular  hours.  Never  suppose  that 
you  have  done  extra  work,  when  you  sit  up  till  midnight,  and 
do  not  rise  till  eight  or  nine  in  the  morning. 


3865.  Abstain  from  ardent  spirits,  cordials,  and  malt 
liquors.  Let  your  drink  be,  like  that  of  Franklin,  when  he 
was  a  printer — pure  water. 


3866.  Never  use  tobacco  in  any  form.  By  chewing,  smok- 
ing, or  snuffing,  you  spend  money  which  would  help  to  clothe 
you,  or  would  enable  you,  if  single,  to  make  a  useful  present 


HINTS   TO   MECHANICS   AND   WORKMEN.  681 

to  an  aged  mother  or  dependent  sister  ;  or,  if  married,  to  buy 
your  wife  a  frock,  or  get  books  for  your  children.  You  also, 
by  any  of  these  filthy  practices,  injure  your  health — bringing 
on  headache,  gnawing  at  the  stomach,  low  spirits,  trembling 
of  the  limbs,  and,  at  times,  sleeplessness. 


386T.  Be  particular  in  preserving  your  skin  clean,  by  regu- 
lar washing  of  your  hands,  and  face,  and  mouth,  before  each 
meal,  and  of  your  whole  body  at  least  once  a  week,  and  by 
combing  and  brushing  the  hair  daily. 


3868.  Always  have  fresh  air  in  the  room  in  which  you  work, 
but  so  that  you  shall  not  be  in  a  draft. 


3869.  Take  a  short  time  in  the  morning,  if  possible,  and 
always  in  the  evening,  or  toward  sundown,  for  placing  your 
body  in  a  natural  posture,  by  standing  erect,  and  exercising 
your  chest  and  limbs  by  a  walk  where  the  air  is  the  purest. 


38Y0.  The  Fireside, — Admit  no  rival  here.  Let  your  chief 
joys  be  shared  by  her  who  has  forsaken  all  other  hearts  and 
hopes  for  you ;  by  those  who  must  inherit  honor  or  disgrace 
from  your  course  of  life.  Shun  the  bar-room  and  the  purlieus 
of  intoxication.  They  are,  to  thousands,  the  avenues  to 
infamy.  _____ 

38T1.  The  rivals  of  our  Home  are  many  and  fearful. 
Among  the  direst  is  the  drinking-plaee,  whether  known  as 
porter-house,  grog-shop,  or  tavern.  The  man  who  spends  his 
evenings  in  these  Stygian  fumes,  soon  grovels  and  wallows 
away  half  his  civilization. 


38  ir2.  The  tavern-haunter  drinks  till  he  feels  himself  half- 
ruined  ;  he  is  wretched  ;  he  drinks  to  drown  liis  wretchedness ; 
he  does  drown  it,  and  his  soul  along  with  it  I 


38t3.  Home! — It  marks  the  sacred  spot  to  which  the  cares 
and  tumult  of  the  world  do  not  reach  ;  and  where,  except  in 
cases  of  extreme  depravity,  its  vices  do  not  intrude. 


632  MRS.   bale's    receipts    for    the    MILLIOIf. 


MAXIMS  AND   MORALS   FOR  ALL  MEK 

3814.  The  world  estimates  men  by  their  succesg  in  life ;  and, 
by  general  consent,  success  is  evidence  of  superiority. 

3815.  Never,  under  any  circumstances,  assume  a  responsi- 
bility you  can  avoid  consistently  with  your  duty  to  yourselves 
and  others.  

38T6.  Base  all  your  actions  upon  a  principle  of  right ;  pre- 
serve your,  integrity  of  character  in  doing  this  ;  never  reckon 
the  cost.  

SS11.  Remember  that  self-interest  is  more  likely  to  warp 
your  judgment  than  all  other  circumstances  combined ;  there- 
fore look  well  to  your  duty  when  your  duty  is  concerned. 


3818.  Never  make  money  at  the  expense  of  your  reputation. 

3819.  Be  neither  lavish  nor  niggardly;  of  the  two  avoid  the 
latter.  A  mean  man  is  universally  despised ;  but  public 
favor  is  a  stepping-stone  to  preferment — therefore  generous 
feelings  should  be  cultivated. 

3880.  Let  your  expenses  be  such  as  to  leave  a  balance  in 
your  pocket.     Ready  money  is  a  friend  in  need. 

3881.  Keep  clear  of  the  law;  for  when  you  gain  your  case, 
you  are  generally  a  loser  of  money. 


3882.  Never  relate  your  misfortunes,  and  never  grieve  over 
what  you  cannot  prevent. 


3883.  No  man  who  owes  as  much  as  he  can  pay,  has  any 
moral  right  to  endorse  for  another. 


3884.  No  moneyed  man  has  the  moral  right  to  enter  on  en- 
gagements or  speculations,  hazarding  his  estate,  without  the 
consent  of  his  wife. 

~* 

3885.  Knowing  that  the  end  of  life  is  death,  every  right- 


FAMILY   TOOL-CHEST,   PAPERS,   ETC.  633 

minded  man  ought  to  pursue  that  which  is  connected  with 
happiness  and  ultimate  bliss. 


3886.  Family  Tool  Chests,  Papers,  etc. — Much  inconveni- 
ence and  considerable  expense  might  be  saved,  if  it  was  the 
general  custom  to  keep  in  every  house  certain  tools  for  the 
purpose  of  performing  at  home  what  are  called  small  jobs,  in- 
stead of  being  always  obliged  to  send  for  a  mechanic,  and  pay 
him  for  executing  little  things  that,  in  most  cases,  could  be 
sufficiently  well  done  by  a  man  or  boy  belonging  to  the  family, 
provided  that  the  proper  instruments  were  at  hand. 


888T.  The  cost  of  these  articles  is  very  trifling,  and  the 
advantages  of  having  them  always  in  the  house  are  far  beyond 
the  expense.  

3888.  For  instance,  there  should  be  an  axe,  a  hatchet,  a 
saw  (a  large  wood-saw,  also,  with  a  buck  or  stand,  if  wood  is 
burned),  a  claw-hammer,  a  mallet,  two  gimlets  of  different 
sizes,  two  screw-drivers,  a  chisel,  a  small  plane,  one  or  two 
jack-knives,  a  pair  of  large  scissors  or  shears,  and  a  carpet- 
fork  or  stretcher.  ' 

3889.  Also  an  assortment  of  nails  of  various  sizes,  from 
large  spikes  down  to  small  tacks,  not  forgetting  brass-headed 
nails,  some  larger  and  some  smaller. 


3890.  Screws,  likewise,  will  be  found  to  be  very  convenient, 
and  hooks  on  which  to  hang  things. 

3891.  The  nails  and  screws  should  be  kept  in  a  wooden  box, 
made  with  divisions  to  separate  the  various  sorts,  for  it  is  very 
troublesome  to  have  them  mixed. 


3892.  And  let  care  be  taken  to  keep  up  the  supply,  lest  it 
should  run  out  unexpectedly,  and  the  deficiency  cause  delay 
and  inconvenience  at  a  time  when  their  use  is  wanted. 


3893.  It  is  well  to  have  somewhere,  in  the  lower  part  of  the 
house,  a  deep,  light  closet,  appropriated  entirely  to  tools  and 
things  of  equal  utility,  for  executing  promptly  such  little  re- 


684  3iss.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

pairs  as  convenience  may  require,  without  the  delay  or  expense 
of  procuring  an  artisan.  This  closet  should  have  at  least  one 
large  shelf,  and  that  about  three  feet  from  the  floor. 


3894.  Beneath  this  shelf  may  be  a  deep  drawer,  divided  into 
two  compartments.  This  drawer  may  contain  cakes  of  glue, 
pieces  of  chalk,  and  balls  of  twine  of  different  size  and  quality. 


3895.  There  may  be  shelves  at  the  sides  of  the  closet  for 
glue-pots,  paste-pots,  and  brushes,  pots  for  black,  white,  green, 
and  red  paints,  cans  of  painting  oil,  paint-brushes,  &c. 


3896.  Against  the  wall,  above  the  large  shelf,  let  the  tools 
be  suspended,  or  laid  across  nails  or  hooks  of  proper  size  to 
support  them.  

3897.  This  is  much  better  than  keeping  them  in  a  box, 
where  they  may  be  injured  by  rubbing  against  each  other,  and 
the  hand  may  be  hurt  in  feeling  among  them  to  find  the  thing 
that  is  wanted.  

3898.  But  when  hung  up  against  the  back  wall  of  the  closet, 
of  conrse  each  tool  can  be  seen  at  a  glance. 


3899.  "Wrapping  paper  may  be  piled  on  the  floor  under  the 
large  shelf.  It  can  be  bought  very  low  by  the  ream,  at  the 
large  paper  warehouses ;  and  every  house  should  keep  a  supply 
of  it  in  several  varieties. 


3900.  For  instance,  coarse  brown  paper  for  common  pur- 
poses, that  denominated  ironmonger's  paper,  which  is  strong, 
thick,  and  in  large  sheets,  is  useful  for  packing  heavy  articles ; 
and  equally  so  for  keeping  silks,  ribbons,  blondes,  &c.,  as  it 
preserves  their  colors. 


3901.  Printed  papers  are  nnfit  for  wrapping  any  thing,  as 
the  printing  ink  rubs  off  on  the  articles  enclosed  in  them  and 
also  soils  the  gloves  of  the  person  who  carries  the  parcel. 


3902.  When  shopping,  if  the  person  at  the  counter  proceeds 
to  wrap  up  your  purchase  in  a  newspaper  (a  thing  rarely 
attemDted  in  a  genteel  shop),  refuse  to  take  it  in  suck  a  cover. 


HOME  INDUSTRY.  635 

3903.  It  is  the  business  of  every  respectable  shopkeeper  to 
provide  proper  paper  for  this  purpose ;  and  printed  paper  is 
not  proper.  

3904.  Waste  newspapers  had  best  be  used  for  lighting  fires 
and  singing  poultry.  

3905.  Waste  paper  that  has  been  written  on,  cut  into  slips, 
and  creased  and  folded,  makes  very  good  alumettes  or  lamp- 
lighters. These  matters  may  appear  of  tri'fling  importance, 
but  order  and  regularity  are  necessary  to  happiness. 


3906.  A  3Iiniature  Tool  Box  for  little  boys  is  one  of  the 
best  playthings  which  can  be  given  them.  These  can  be 
found  at  the  toy-shops. 


HOME   INDUSTRY  FOR  YOUNG   LADIES. 

3907.  Dress-making. — When  you  are  about  to  commence  a 
dress,  have  the  following  things  in  a  basket  or  box  at  your 
hand,  viz :  sewing  silk  the  color  of  the  dress,  one  or  two  reels 
of  cotton,  fine  and  coarse,  a  pair  of  scissors,  not  small,  a  penny 
inch  measure — you  can  procure  one  at  a  trimming  shop. 


3908.  Do  not  cut  without  a  measure,  and  always  measure 
all  that  you  have  bought  or  have  given  you  for  a  dress,  before 
you  begin  to  cut.  

3909.  The  number  of  yards  required  depend  on  the  width 
of  the  material.  Ten  yards  of  any  material,  eighteen  inches 
wide,  will  make  a  dress  for  a  moderate-sized  person,  with  full 
body,  but  no  trimming  on  the  skirt. 


3910.  Cut  your  plain  skirt  off  the  piece  first,  body  and 
sleeves  after  ;  leave  your  trimmings  to  the  last;  large  turnings 
are  bad  and  waste  the  stuff ;  measure  carefully  and  cut  exact. 

3911.  Six  yards  of  J^rench  merino,  or  any  other  material 
of  that  width,  will  be  found  sufficient. 

3912.  In  cutting  off  the  skirt,  if  the  length,  we  will  suppose, 


MRa,    HALHB    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLIOX. 

should  be  forty-two  or  forty-six  inches  long,  leave  four  inches 
more  for  the  hem  and  turnings  at  the  top. 

S913.  Cut  the  lining  for  the  skirt  exact  to  the  material,  and 
mind  it  fits  when  finished. 


3914.  Supposing  you  to  have  run  the  seams  of  the  skirt  and 
the  seams  of  your  lining,  lay^he  lining  on  the  table,  placing 
the  skirt  on  top,  and  then  tack  the  seams  of  your  skirt  to  the 
liaing.  • 

8915.  Begin  at  the  first  seam,  and  gradually  go  on  to  the 
last  seam ;  stitch  up  three  pieces  together,  and  fell  over  the 
fourth  ;  having  done  this,  hem  the  bottom.  Unless  your  hem 
is  tacked  or  pinned,  it  will  be  sure  to  be  on  the  twist  and  set 
badly.  

8916.  Having  done  this,  run  on  your  braid,  which  must  be 
put  on  easy  or  rather  full.  Attend  to  this,  or  you  will  spoil 
the  set  of  the  skirt.  If  the  skirt  is  to  have  flounces,  they  must 
be  put  on  before  you  gauge  the  top ;  and  while  the  skirt  is  on 
the  table,  put  a  white  tacking  thread  round  the  skirt  where 
each  flounce  is  to  be  fixed. 


8917.  Waist  or  Body. — All  thin  figures  ought  to  wear  full 
bodies ;  with  stout  persons  it  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Plain 
bodies  require  more  care  in  making  than  full  ones.  Every 
amall  imperfection  is  seen  in  plain  bodies. 


8918.  Care  and  judgment  are  necessary  in  fitting  the  back 
,of  the  dress  over  the  shoulders  j  or  you  will  look  round-shoul- 
.d(sred. 

8919.  The  fault  is,  usually,  in  cutting  the  back  of  the  dress 
too  long;  in  fitting,  pull  the  fore-body  over  the  shoulder,  and 
ehorten  the  back  at  the  top,  till  it  fits  neatly. 

8920.  If  you  have  no  paper  pattern  that  fits,  unpick  half  an 
old  body  that  suits  you ;  lay  your  new  lining  on  your  cut- 
ting board  (the  top  of  a  candle-box,  or  any  smooth  board 
of  sufficient  width,  will  answer  to  hold  in  your  lap,  and  is  more 
eonvcnient  than  standing  over  a  bed  or  table),  put  the  old 


HOME    IITDUSTRY.  6^*1 

body  on  top  of  it,  and,  with  the  sharp  point  of  a  pair  of  scfe- 
Bors,  prick  through  both,  in  the  old  seams  of  the  pattern. 


3921.  Prick  them  welly  as  the  marks  are  apt  to  rub  out. 
Tack  all  the  body  well  in  the  holes  round  it,  before  you 
begin,  and  be  very  careful  to  stitch  your  body  to  the  tacking 
thread. 


8922.  Plain  bodies  require  more  care  in  making  than  full 
ones ;  any  small  imperfection  is  seen  in  plain  bodies. 

3923.  Five  out  of  six  persons  have  their  dresses  made  too 
tight  across  the  chest ;  it  is  a  sad  fault.  Any  lady  once  wear- 
ing an  easy  dress,  would  never  go  back  to  a  tight  one ;  to  say 
nothing  of  its  being  healthy  and  beautiful. 


3924.  Do  not  select  a  very  stout  body  lining  ;  it  is  a  com- 
mon  mistake.  A  stout  lining  prevents  the  dress  giving  or 
setting  to  the  figure,  and  is  no  stronger  than  one  of  moderate 
quality.  French  dressmakers  exclaim  at  the  bad  shapes  so 
commonly  seen  in  this  country,  and  charge  them  to  this  cause 
in  a  great  measure.  For  a  white  dress,  lawn,  cambric,  chintz, 
or  silk — bleached  muslin,  at  twelve  and  a  half  cents  a  yard,  is 
good  enough.  For  dark  merinos,  or  cashmeres,  some  prefer 
dark  twilled  stuffs.  

3925.  A  yard  of  lining  is  the  proper  quantity  for  a  close 
dress,  a  yard  and  a  half  for  a  basque  or  jacket.  Sleeve  lin- 
ings should  always  be  of  a  thin  material. 


3926.  Great  care  must  be  taken  with  the  armholes ;  do  not 
make  them  too  large  or  too  small ;  thirteen  inches  is  a  nico 
size  for  a  person  not  more  than  twenty-four  inches  in  tlio 
waist ;  fourteen  inches  is  a  large  size,  only  required  for  stout 
persons.  

392T.  If  you  have  to  alter  the  armhole,  never  do  it  under 
the  arm ;  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  it  will  spoil  the  dress,  and 
it  takes  away  the  free  use  of  the  arm ;  a  very  small  piece  cut 
off  round  the  armhole,  excepting  underneath,  will  be  all  that 
Is  necessary. 


638  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

3928.  Do  not  forget  your  sleeves  must  be  larger  than  the 
armhole  an  inch  and  a  half;  when  put  in,  it  never  looks  the 
least  full,  and  sets  better.  The  seam  of  your  sleeve  must  not 
be  even  with  the  seam  of  your  body,  but  half  an  inch  in  front 
of  it. 

3929.  In  cording  the  neck,  do  not  stretch  it ;  hold  the  cord 

tight.  The  waist  must,  on  the  contrary,  be  pulled  well  when 
the  cord  is  put  on,  or  it  will  never  fit ;  it  requires  much  stretch- 
ing.    The  fit  of  the  body  often  depends  on  the  finishing.' 


3930.  All  full  bodies  are  made  with  quite  a  straight  piece 
of  material,  twenty  inches  long,  and  eighteen  wide ;  this  is 
half  the  front ;  gather  it  straight  at  the  bottom,  and  then  place 
it  on  your  tight  lining ;  fix  it  firmly,  and  then  gather  it  at  the 
shoulder  ;  but  mind  and  do  the  bottom  gauging  first. 


8931.  To  make  a  body  with  folds,  still  have  your  material 
twenty  inches  long,  and  nineteen  wide ;  the  selvage  must 
reach  from  waist  to  shoulder. 


3932.  In  putting  folds  on  a  body,  let  it  be  on  the  straight, 
or  a  good  cross  ;  don't  let  it  be  neither  one  nor  the  other, 
which  is  too  frequently  the  case,  and  always  will,  as  a  matter 
of  course,  set  badly.  It  makes  the  folds  set  better  to  cover 
over  half  the  body  lining  with  a  plain  piece  of  the  dress,  as 
you  would  wear  a  stomacher,  and  then  place  your  folds  to 
meet  it,  so  that  a  folded  body  will  be  in  two  pieces,  the  plain 
part  put  on  first,  and  the  folds  after. 


3933.  A  French  dressmaker  uses  little  or  no  hone — that  is, 
the  splints  are  so  thin  as  to  bend  and  give  to  the  outline,  and 
to  every  motion  of  the  figure.  The  fit  should  not  be  made  to 
depend  on  a  stiff  fencing  of  whalebone,  the  thickness  of  an  old- 
fashioned  busk.  If  it  does  not  fit  nicely  without  any  bone,  it 
never  will  fit  T^ith.  This  is  true  of  low-bodied  evening  dresses 
in  particular,  the  only  dresses  which  at  present  have  long 
points  to  the  bodice.  

3934.  The  basque,  properly  speaking,  is  the  short  skirt  or 
flap,  of  the  body.     They  require  a  paper  pattern,  which  can 


HOME   INDUSTRY.  639 

be  furnisned  to  any  distance  by  those  establishments  who 
make  patterns  a  business.  There  are  several  such  in  New  York 
and  Philadelphia.  

3935.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  fit  the  jacket  lining  to  the  figure 
first,  before  you  cut  into  the  material.  They  should  always 
be  left  loose  to  the  figure ;  the  whole  effect  being  destroyed 
if  any  seams  are  drawn  tight. 


3936.  Flounces. — It  will  take  the  same  quantity  of  material 
if  cut  either  on  the  straight  or  the  cross.  It  is  a  common 
error  to  suppose  they  take  more  on  the  cross. 


393T.  For  the  fullness  of  a  flounce  allow  one  width  on  the 
cross  to  one  width  on  the  straight  of  your  skirt ;  so  that  if  you 
have  six  widths  in  your  skirts,  you  will  have  six  widths  in 
your  flounces  on  the  cross. 


3938.  If  there  are  three  flounces  of  different  widths,  let  the 
bottom  and  widest  one  have  the  most  fullness ;  three,  inches 
more  fullness  will  be  sufficient.  If  the  flounces  are  on  the 
straight,  allow  eight  widths  in  the  flounce  to  six  widths  in  the 
skirt.  ^ 

3939.  A  smallcord  run  in  at  the  top  of  the  flounce  makes 
it  look  neat.  Before  running  the  cord  in  your  flounce,  join  it 
round  the  exact  size  of  the  skirt ;  join  round  likewise  your 
flounces,  and  full  them  on  the  cord  as  you  go  on. 


3940.  Halve  and  quarter  your  flounces  and  also  the  skirt, 
and  you  will  find  them  no  trouble  to  put  on. 


3941.  Sleeves. — In  making  sleeves,  with  one  good  pattern, 
strange  as  it  may  seem,  you  can  very  easily  make  six  different 
fashions  by  cutting' your  sleeve  a  little  longer  or  a  little 
shorter,  and  putting  on  different  trimmings,  by  making  some 
in  a  band  at  the  wrist,  or  leaving  them  loose,  by  trimming  the 
loose  sleeves  on  the  back  or  fore  part  of  the  arm. 

3942.  The  same  shape  is,  by  a  dressmaker,  altered  in  the 
manner  I  describe,  and  with  a  little  observation,  I  think,  can 
bo  done. 


640  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

3943.  Try  and  procure  a  good  pattern  at  first.     With  taste, 
one  pattern  can  be  made  to  look  like  six. 


3944.  A  trimming  on  the  top  of  the  sleeve  is  a  great  im- 
provement to  thin  persons.  It  should  match  the  bottom  part 
of  the  sleeve  and  body-trimming. 


3945.  Two  out  of  every  three  American  women  have  one 
shoulder  larger  than  the  other,  from  stooping  in  the  school- 
room, or  the  early  care  of  children. 


3946.  A  light  layer  of  cotton  on  the  lining  of  the  opposite 
shoulder,  and  covered  with  the  same  material,  will  often  con- 
ceal, or  at  least  soften  this  unpleasant  defect. 


3947.  Trimmings  down  the  front  of  a  dress  when  on  the 
cross,  should  be  cut  the  same  as  flounces.  In  trimming  the 
front  of  a  skirt,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  cut  a  paper  the  length  of 
the  skirt,  and  pin  it  on  the  way  you  intend  to  trim,  and  then 
tack  a  tacking  thread  by  it. 


3948.  Put  tackings  wherever  you  mean  to  trim,  before  you 
begin  trimming,  and  lay  your  skirt  on  a  table  to  do  it ;  put 
on  all  trimmings  with  a  light  hand ;  do  not  sew  them  as  you 
would  a  shirt,  it  gives  them  a  puckered  look.  Now  mind,  a 
good  cross ;  no  attempts  at  making  pieces  do,  unless  they  are 
good  corner  pieces,  that  will  join  well ;  you  are  more  sure 
of  making  a  trimming  well  if  cut  all  from  one  piece. 


3949.  Before  cutting  a  skirt  off  that  you  wish  to  put  tucks 
in,  have  a  piece  of  lining  or  calico  at  hand,  pin  the  tucks  in  it 
as  you  wish  to  put  them  in  your  skirt. 

As  a  general  rule,  a  tucked  skirt  takes  more  than  a  flounced 
one,  and  makes  less  show  for  the  quantity  of  material  used 


PETS — CAXARTES.  (^41 


PETS. 

Canaries,  (see  p,  1Y5)  and  other  Birds. 


3950.  Canaries  become  delicate  and  feeble  from  improper 
treatment.  Their  docility,  beautiful  plumage,  and  sweetness 
of  notes  render  them  general  favorites.  When  young,  feed  on 
a  paste  made  by  bruising  rape-seed,  blowing  the  chaff  away, 
mixed  with  pieces  of  bread  powdered.  Give  a  teaspoonful 
with  a  little  hard  egg  and  a  few  drops  of  water,  when  turning 
sour,  mix  fresh.  Add,  a-s  they  grow  older,  scalded  rape-seed 
without  bruising,  chopped  almond  and  chickweed,  in  hot  wea- 
ther, twice  a  day.  

3951.  If  sick,  give  milk  of  hemp-seed,  made  by  bruising 
clean  seed  and  straining  it  through  linen  into  water,  taking 
the  water-glass  away  from  the  sick.  As  they  advance  in  age, 
give  rape  and  canary,  and  occasionally  bruised  hemp-seed, 
taking  the  soft  food  away  by  degrees.  Cuttle-fish  bone  is  pre- 
ferable to  loaf-sugar.  Cakes,  apples,  berries,  bread  soaked, 
the  water  squeezed  out  and  milk  added,  are  good,  and  cabbage 
occasionally,  when  in  season,  is  excellent. 


3952.  Perches  should  be  round  and  strong  without  crevices 
or  shoulders  for  insects  to  breed  or  harbor,  and  every  corner 
of  the  cage  should  be  brushed  out  and  kept  thoroughly  clean. 


3953.    Theclaivs  are  sometimes  so  long  as  to  occasion  acci- 
dents by  catching  in  the  wires;  in  which  case  trim  them. 
Mortar  placed  in  the  cage  facilitates  the  production  of  eggs. 


3954.  Teach  singing  by  separating  the  bird  from  the  others, 
so  that  he  may  hear  no  singing,  cover  his  cage  for  a  few  days 
with  a  thin  cloth,  then  play  your  flageolet  or  bird  organ  seve- 
ral times  each  day,  without  harshness.  At  the  end  of  fifteen 
days,  change  the  thin  cloth  for  a  thick  green  or  red  serge,  and 
keep  covered  till  perfect  in  the  air  you  wish  to  teach.  Feed 
once  a  day  and  night.  It  is  better  to  teach  one  good  tune  well 
than  several  imperfectly.  The  bird  will  copy  all  imperfections. 
Bad  or  dull  singers  are  improved  by  hearing  the  more  spirited 
and  perfect. 
41 


C42  NRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

8955.  Surfeit  indicated  by  swelling  of  lower  part  of  body, 
and  occasioned  by  too  much  chickweed,  salad,  or  soft  food. 
Put  alum  in  the  water  for  three  or  four  days,  or  put  a  rusty 
nail  in  the  water,  or  common  salt.  Put  the  bird,  if  bad,  in 
lukewarm  milk  a  few  minutes,  then  wash  with  water,  wipe  and 
dry  gently.  

3956.  Sick  birds  may  have  boiled  bread  and  milk  vrith  ca- 
nary seed  boiled  in  it ;  lettuce  seed  ;  and  w^hen  moulting,  or 
renewing  its  feathers,  indicated  by  drooping,  putting  its  head 
under  its  wing,  dropping  small  feathers,  give  nourishing  food, 
as  hemp-seed,  sponge,  biscuit,  &c.,  keep  warm  and  quiet,  and 
keep  much  in  the  sun.  A  cold  air  or  draft  is  injurious.  Put 
in  the  water  a  little  refined  liquorice. 


395*7.  American  Yellow  Bird. — Beautiful  plumage  and  fine 
song.  They  are  hardy,  and  the  cage  should  be  often  hung  out. 
Give  plenty  of  water,  gravel,  rich  oily  seeds,  with  occasional 
sunflower  and  lettuce  seeds;  leaves  of  beet,  salad,  apples,  and 
other  fruits. 

Gold  Finch. — Treat  similar  to  American  yellow  bird. 


3958.  Bullfinches. — Old  birds  should  be  fed  with  German 
Paste,  No.  2,  and  occasionally  rape-seed.  The  Germans  oc- 
casionally give  them  a  little  poppy-seed,  and  a  grain  or  two  of 
rice,  steeped  in  canary  wine,  when  teaching  them  to  pipe,  as  a 
reward  for  the  progress  they  make.  Bird  organs  or  flageolets, 
are  used  to  teach  them. 


3959.  Cardinal  Grosbeak. — Of  splendid  plumage  and  ex- 
quisite song.  They  are  hardy  and  may  be  kept  without  fire  in 
a  room  most  of  the  winter,  except  in  the  northern  States. 
Allow  frequent  air  and  sun.  Feed  on  rough  unhuUed  rice  and 
hemp,  w^heat,  brown  gravel,  cracked  corn,  and  millet  occasion- 
ally, with  plenty  of  water  for  bathing.  These  birds  are  long 
lived ;  the  Philadelphia  Museum  having  one  which  died  when 
twenty-one  years  old,        .  

3960.  Java  Sparrow. — Very  delicate,  with  pretty  plumage, 
but  little  music.  Feed  on  unhulled  rice  and  canary  seed,  with 
plenty  of  brown  gravel. 


PETS — ORIOLES — MOCKING   BIRDS.  G43 

3961.  Purple  Finch  or  Linnet. — A  delightful  songster. 
Give  canary,  hemp,  millet,  and  sunflower  seeds,  with  juniper 
and  cedar-berries  through  the  winter,  salad  and  beet-tops  in 
summer.  Any  other  of  the  Finch  tribe  may  be  fed  on  seeds  gen- 
erally, as  the  preceding.  Perfect  cleanliness  of  the  cage,  and 
a  constant  supply  of  fresh  water  and  gravel  are  essential. 


3962.  Baltimore  Oriole. — A  bird  of  delightful  plumage, 
and  rich  brilliant  music,  well  repaying  the  utmost  care.  They 
eat  fruit  of  all  kinds,  seeds,  insects,  &c.  Give  them  a  large 
cage,  protection  from  frost,  and*  an  abundance  of  insects. 
Rear  same  as  mocking  bird. 

Emt  India  Oriole. — Possesses  greater  musical  powers,  and 
is  to  be  treated  same  as  the  Baltimore. 


3963.  American  3Ioching  Bird. — The  sweet  "  bird  of  many 
voices, ^^  imitating  almost  every  variety  of  notes  and  sounds 
imaginable.  Feed  regularly  every  morning  with  Indian  meal 
mixed  with  milk,  not  very  stiff.  Give  wild  cherries,  dedar, 
elder,  poke,  and  whortleberries.  An  occasional  ^gg,  boiled 
hard  and  grated;  a  little  raw  minced  beef;  water  for  washing 
as  well  as  drink,  with  plenty  of  insects,  grasshoppers,  spiders, 
particularly  during  moulting,  when  they  should  be  kept  quiet 
and  away  from  cold  drafts  of  air. 


3964.  Regular  feeding  \s>  \m'poYi2^Vii.  Adopt  a  regular  hour, 
say  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning  for  feeding  and  watering,  and 
strictly  adhere  to  it. 

If  sickly,  treat  kindly,  give  spiders  daily,  and  meal-worms; 
gravel  the  bottom  of  the  cage  and  keep  very  quiet. 

The  male  has  a  regular  line  of  white  feathers  in  the  wing, 
forming  almost  a  regular  curve  from  tip  to  shoulder. 


3965.  American  Eohin. — Sprightly,  beautiful,  and  musical. 
Treat  similar  to  mockino;  bird. 


3966.  Reed  Bird  or  Bob-o-link. — Is  apt  to  die  in  INTovember, 
if  too  well  fed.  Give  oats,  bucWheat,  and  canary  seed,  and 
abundant  water  for  bathing.  At  other  seasons  feed  same  in- 
discriminately, as  the  Finch  tribe. 


3967.    Chickweed  or  sahul,  which  in  proper  season  is  excel- 


644  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million 

lent,  are  absolutely  poison  if  given  too  early,  before  the 
bitterness  is  oif,  and  the  cold  acrid  juices  are  dissipated  by  the 
sun. 

Insects  from  Bird-cages,  Draivers,  &c. — To  keep  away 
insects  from  birds'  eyes,  suspend  a  little  bag  of  sulphur  in 
the  cage.  This  is  said  to  be  healthful  for  birds  generally, 
as  well  as  serving  to  keep  away  insects  by  which  they  become 
infested. 

3968.  Aviaries. — The  aviary  must  face  the  south  or  west; 
the  ground  within  may  be  covered  with  fine  turf,  and  divided 
by  gravel  walks.  The  evergreens  planted  inside  are,  phyl- 
lerca,  holly,  laurel,  Portugal  laurel,  lauristinus,  yew,  box,  and 
furze.  The  building  should  be  principally  wire,  and  open  to 
the  air,  but  there  should  be  wings  on  either  side,  protected  by 
a  roof  of  wood  or  glass.  In  putting  goldfinches,  linnets,  and 
canaries  in  an  aviary  for  the  purpose  of  breeding,  the  males 
of  the  two  former  should  be  put  in  with  hen  canaries  as  the 
male  birds  of  the  wild  species  will  mate  only  with  canaries. 
Two  or  three  male  canaries  may  be  put  amongst  them,  as  the 
young  male  birds  will  learn  some  of  the  canaries'  notes. 


3969.  Gold'fisJi. — Great  care  must  be  taken  of  gold-fish,  as 
they  are  very  susceptible;  and  hence  a  loud  noise,  strong 
smell,  violent  or  even  slight  shaking  of  the  vessel,  will  ofttimes 
destroy  them. 

3970.  Food  for  Gold-fish. — Foreign  vermicelli,  in  minute 
portions,  given  at  intervals  of  two  or  three  days,  is  the  very 
best  aliment  for  gold-fish.  A  frequent  cause  of  their  death  is 
injudicious  food,  and  too  much  of  it ;  bread  kills  them,  and 
biscuit  is  scarcely  to  be  trusted,  because  the  materials  of  which 
it  is  composed  are  not  always  pure.  Water  contains  so  much 
nourishment,  that  if  it  be  changed  every  day,  little  food  need 
be  given  in  addition.  The  most  proper  situation  for  a  globe 
of  fish  is  near  a  window,  but  not  in  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun. 


397 1.  Squirrels. — In  a  domestic  state  these  little  animals 
are  fed  with  hazel  nuts,  or  indeed  any  kind  of  nuts ;  and  occa- 
sionally bread  and  milk.     They  should  be  kept  very  clean. 


3972.  Birdlime. — Take  any  quantity  of  linseed  oil,  say  half 


PETS — GOLD-FISH — DOGS.  G45 

a  pint;  pat  it  into  an  old  pot,  or  any  vessel  that  will  stand 
tlie  fire  without  breaking  ;  the  vessel  must  not  be  more  than 
one-third  full,  put  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  occasionally  until  it 
thickens  as  mubh  as  required ;  this  will  be  known  by  cooling 
the  stick  in  water,  and  trying  it  with  the  fingers.  It  is  best 
to  make  it  rather  harder  than  for  use.  Then  pour  it  into  cold 
w^ater.  It  can  be  brought  back  to  the  consistency  required 
with  a  little  Archano-el  tar. 


3913.  Pet  Dogs  should  never  be  washed  with  soap.  They 
should  be  washed  with  beaten  eggs,  and  afterward  washed 
with  warm  water.  The  best  way  to  keep  a  dog  healthy  is  to  let 
him  have  plenty  of  exercise,  and  not  to  over-feed  him. 


3974.  Drink.— Jj^i  them  at  all  times  have  a  plentiful  sup- 
ply of  clean  water,  and  encourage  them  to  take  to  swimming, 
as  it  assists  their  cleanliness. 

Washing. — When  you  wash  them  do  not  use  a  particle 
t)f  soap,  or  you  will  prevent  their  licking  themselves,  and  they 
may  become  habitually  dirty. 


3915,  Feeding. — Properly-treated  dogs,  should- be  fed  only 
once  a  day.  Meat  boiled  for  dogs  and  the  liquor  in  which  it 
is  boiled,  .thickened  with  barley-meal,  or  oatmeal,  forms  capi- 
tal food.  

3916.  Sickness. — The  distemper  is  liable  to  attack  dogs  from 
four  months  to  four  years  old.  It  prevails  most  in  spring  and 
autumn.  The  disease  is  known  by  dulness  of  the  eye,  husky 
cough,  shivering,  loss  of  appetite  and  spirits,  and  fits.  When 
fits  occur,  the  dog  will  most  likely  die,  unless  a  veterinary  sur- 
geon is  called  in.  

3911.  Remedies. — During  the  distemper,  dogs  should  be  al- 
lowed to  run  on  the  grass  ;  their  diet  should  be  spare  ;  and*a  little 
sulphur  be  placed  in  their  water.  Chemists  who  dispense  cattle 
medicines  can  generally  advise  with  sufficient  safety  upon  the 
diseases  of  dogs,  and  it  is  best  for  unskillful  persons  to  abstain 
from  physicking  them.  

3918.  Hydrophobia — Hydrophobia  is  the  most  dreadful  of 


646  MRS.  bale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

all  diseases.  The  first  symptoms  are  attended  by  thirst,  fever, 
and  languor.  The  dog  starts  convulsively  in  his  sleep,  and 
when  awake,  though  restless,  is  languid.  ^ 


89 Y 9.  Treatment — ^When  a  dog  is  suspected,  he  should  be 
firmly  chained  in  a  place  where  neither  children  nor  dogs  nor 
cats  can  get  near  him.  Any  one  going  to  attend  him  should 
wear  thick  leather  gloves,  and  proceed  with  great  caution. 
When  a  dog  snaps  savagely  at  an  imaginary  object,  it  is  almost 
a  certain  indication  of  madness ;  and  when  it  exhibits  a  terror 
of  fluids,  it  is  confirmed  hydrophobia. 


3980.  Music,' — Some  dogs  exhibit  a  great  dislike  of  musi- 
cal sounds,  and  when  this  is  the  case  they  are  too  frequently 
made  sport  of.  But  it  is  dangerous  sport,  as  dogs  have  some- 
times been  driven  mad  by  it.  In  many  diseases  dogs  will  be 
benefitted  by  warm  baths. 


8981.  3Iange. — The  mange  is  a  contagious  disease,  which 
is  difficult  to  get  rid  of  when  once  contracted.  The  best  way 
is  to  apply  to  a  veterinary  chemist  for  an  ointment,  and  to 
keep  applying  it  for  some  time  after  the  disease  has  disap- 
peared, or  it  will  break  out  again. 


8982.  Cats. — It  is  generally  supposed  that  cats  are  more 
attached  to  places  than  to  individuals,  but  this  is  an  error. 
They  obstinately  cling  to  certain  places,  because  it  is  there  they 
expect  to  see  the  persons  to  whom  they  are  attached.  A  cat 
will  return  to  an  empty  house,  and  remain  in  it  many  weeks. 
But,  when  at  last  she  finds  that  the  family  does  not  return,  she  - 
strays  away,  and  if  she  chances  then  to  find  the  family,  she  will 
abide  with  them. 

8983.  Rules,  &c.' — The  same  rules  of  feeding  which  apply 
to  dogs  apply  also  to  cats.  They  should  not  be  over-fed,  nor 
too  frequently.  Cats  are  liable  to  the  same  diseases  as  dogs  ; 
though  they  do  not  become  ill  so  frequently.  A  little  brimstone 
in  their  milk  occasionally,  is  a  good  preventive.  The  veteri- 
nary chemist  will  also  prescribe  for  the  serious  diseases  of 
cats. 


SWIMMING.  64T 


SWIMMING. 

3984.  The  art  of  swimming  is,  in  fact,  very  easy,  and  those 
persons  who  take  the  few  brief  hints  we  are  about  to  offer,  will 
soon  find  themselves  rewarded  by  complete  success. 


3985.  The  first  consideration  is  not  to  attempt  to  learn  to 
swim  too  soon.  That  is,  you  must  not  expect  to  succeed  in 
your  efforts  to  swim  until  you  have  become  accustomed  to  the 
water,  and  have  overcome  your  repugnance  to  the  coldness 
and  novelty  of  bathing.  Every  attempt  will  fail  until  you 
have  acquired  a  certain  confidence  in  the  water,  and  then  the 
difficulty  will  soon  vanish. 


3986.  Dr.  Franklin''s  Advice  to  Swimmers. — ^'  The  only 
obstacle  to  improvement  in  this  necessary  and  life-preserving 
art,  is  fear  ;  and  it  is  only  by  overcoming  this  timidity  that 
you  can  expect  to  become  a  master  of  the  following  acquire- 
ments.   

398t.  It  is  very  common  for  novices  in  the  art  of  swimming 
to  make  use  of  corks  or  bladders  to  assist  in  keeping  the  body 
above  water  ;  some  have  utterly  condemned  the  use  of  them  ; 
however,  they  may  be  of  service  for  supporting  the  body,  while 
one  is  learning  what  is  called  the  stroke,  or  that  manner  of 
drawing  in  and  striking  out  the  hands  and  feet,  that  is  neces- 
sary to  produce  progressive  motion 

3988.  The  practice  I  mean  is  this:  choosing  a  place  where 
the  water  deepens  gradually,  walk  coolly  into  it  till  it  is  up  to 
your  breast ;  then  turn  round  your  face  to  the  shore,  and  throw 
an  -egg  into  the  water  between  you  and  the  shore  ;  it  will  sink 
to  the  bottom,  and  be  easily  seen  there  if  the  water  is  clean. 


3989.  It  must  lie  in  the  water  so  deep  that  you  cannot 
reach  to  take  it  up  but  by  diving  for  it. 


3990.  To  encourage  yourself,  in  order  to  do  this,  reflect  that 
your  progress  will  be  from  deep  to  shallow  wdter,  and  that  at 


048  MRS.    HALE  S     RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

any  time  you  may,  by  bringing  your  legs  under  you,  and  stand- 
ing on  the  bottom,  raise  your  head  far  above  the  water  ;  then 
phinge  under  with  your  eyes  open,  which  must  be  kept  open 
before  going  under,  as  you  cannot  open  the  eyelids  for  the 
weight  of  water  above  you  ;  throwing  yourself  toward  the  egg^ 
and  endeavoring,  by  the  action  of  your  hands  and  feet  against 
the  water,  to  get  forward  till  within  reach  of  it.  In  this 
attempt  you  will  find  that  the  water  buoys  you  up  against 
your  inclination  ;  that  it  is  not  so  easy  to  sink  as  you  imagine  ; 
and  that  you  cannot,  but  by  active  force  get  down  to  the  egg. 


3991.  Thus  you  feel  the  power  of  water  to  support  you, 
and  learn  to  confide  in  that  power  while  your  endeavors  to 
overcome  it  and  reach  the  egg,  teach  you  the  manner  of  act- 
ing on  the  water  with  your  feet  and  hands,  which  action  is 
afterward  used  in  swimming  to  support  your  head  higher  above 
the  water,  or  to  go  forward  through  it. 


3992.  The  exercise  of  swimming  is  one  of  the  most  healthy 
and  agreeable  in  the  world. 


3993.  Let  every  boy  and  girl,  if  possible,  be  taught  this 
healthful  and  life-preserving  art. 


3994.  Life-Belts,^— An  excellent  and  cheap  life-belt,  for 
persons  proceeding  to  sea,  bathing  in  dangerous  places,  or 
learning  to  swim,  may  be  thus  made  : — 


3995.  Take  a  yard  and  three-quarters  of  strong  jean, 
double  and  divide  it  into  nine  compartments.  Let  there  be  a 
space  of  two  inches  after  each  third  compartment. 


3996.  Fill  the  compartments  with- very  fine  cuttings  of  cork, 
which  may  be  made  by  cutting  up  old  corks,  or  (still  better) 
purchased  at  the  cork-cutters. 


3991.  Work  eyelet-holes  at  the  bottom  of  each  compart- 
ment to  let  the  water  drain  out. 


3998.  Attach  a  neck-band  and  waist  strings  of  stout  boot- 
web,  and  sew  them  on  strongly. 


SWIMMING.  6  49 

3999.  Another. — Cat  open  an  old  boa,  or  victorine,  and 
line  it  with  fine  cork-cuttings  instead  of  wool. 


4000.  For  ladies  going  to  sea  these  are  excellent,  as  they 
may  be  worn  in  stormy  weather,  without  giving  appearance 
of  alarm  in  danger.  They  may  be  fastened  to  the  body  by 
ribands  or  tapes,  of  the  color  of  the  fur.  Gentlemen's  waist- 
coats may  be  lined  the  same  way. 


4001.  Rules  to  Govern  Persons  who  have  Fallen  into  Deep 
Wafer. — 1.  As  soon  as  you  find  yourself  at  the  surface,  whither 
you  are  raised  by  your  buoyancy,  let  your  body  quickly  take 
its  level,  when  the  water  will  reach  a  little  above  your  chin. 


4002.  2.  Place  one  leg  a  little  forward,  the  other  a  little 
backward,  and  stretch  out  your  arms  on  either  side  under  the 
water.  By  a  slight  paddling  motion  you  may  regulate  the 
position  of  your  head,  and  keep  the  mouth  and  nose  above  the 
surface  of  the  surrounding  fluid.  Make  no  efforts,  but  wait 
tranquilly  until  succor  arrives.     You  cannot  sink. 


4003.  3.  Do  not  lay  hold  of  your  companion  or  assistant,  or 
you  will  infallibly  sink  him  without  benefiting  yourself.  The 
best  swimmer  has  no  more  natural  buoyancy  than  you,  and 
would  be  sunk  by  the  exertion  of  very  little  force. 


4004.  4.  Remain  perfectly  passive  till  your  helper  seizes  you 
by  the  hair.  Upon  this  endeavor  to  second  his  efforts  by 
throwing  yourself  on  your  back.  Hold  your  neck  stiff,  and 
let  the  back  of  your  head  sink  into  the  water.  Try  to  propel 
yourself  at  this  stage  by  regularly  and  slowly  kicking  against 
the  water.  

4005.  5.  Be  careful  to  keep  every  part  of  your  body  except 
your  face  under  the  water.  6.  If  two  or  more  persons  are 
immersed  together,  let  them  keep  near  to  each  other.  By  this 
means  one  boat  may  save  the  whole  party  at  once ;  but  if  they 
are  dispersed,  one  at  a  time  only  can  be  picked  up. 


4006.  Rales  to  Govern  Persons  who  Attempt  to  Bescue  the 
Drowning. — 1.  In  removing  a  body  from  the  water,  whether 


'650  MRS.    HALE'g    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

into  a  boat  or  drawing  it  along  by  your  own  efforts,  always 
keep  the  face  upward. 

400T.  2.  Recollect  that  you  have  no  raore  buoyancy  than 
the  person  you  are  attempting  to  rescue.  Therefore  do  not 
attempt  to  raise  him  out  of  the  water,  or  you  will  sink.  By  a 
gentle  traction,  you  may  draw  him  toward  the  boat  or  landing- 
place  without  fatigue  or  danger. 


4008.  3.  Always  aim  at  seizing  the  hind  hair  of  the  head, 
and  keep  the  nape  of  the  neck  and  your  own  arm  under  the 
water.  Thus  you  will  insure  his  face  and  your  own  being 
above  the  surface. 

4009.  4.  Keep  your  most  powerful  arm  disengaged  for 
swimming,  and  maintain  the  other  projected  forward,  liaving 
hold,  as  directed,  by  the  hind  hair  of  the  head.  In  this  way 
you  may  advance  side  by  side,  he  floating  on  his  back,  and 
you  on  your  breast.  

4010.  5.  As  you  approach  the  person  distressed,  let  hira 
know  by  your  voice ;  the  prospect  of  his  speedy  succor  will 
add  to  his  confidence  and  strength. 

4011.  6.  Let  all  your  movements  be  deliberate,  firm,  and 
gentle.  

4012.  1,  Hold  the  hat  reversed  in  both  handwS,  the  arms  and 
hands  of  course  under  water.  If  a  person  has  presence  of 
mind  to  accomplish  this,  the  hat  will  by  its  buoyancy  afford 
him  great  assistance,  until  it  becomes  saturated  and  admits 
the  water. 

4013.  Biding. — To  ride  w^ell  on  horseback  is  a  healthful 
and  very  graceful  accomplishment  for  a  lady  or  gentleman. 


4014.  Dress. — The  lady's  riding  dress  should  be  of  a 
material  that  rain  will  not  spoil,  made  to  fit  easily,  and  by  no 
means  tight.  

4015.  The  length  should  not  exceed  an  ordinary  dress  more 
than  fvom  fourteen  to  eighteen  inches. 


RIDING.  651 

4016.  To  keep  the  front  of  the  dress  down,  sew  small 
quantities  of  shot  in  bits  of  muslin,  tack  these  around  the  in- 
side of  the  front  breadth  of  the  skirt,  at  equal  distances. 


401^.    The  Eat  or  cap  should  be  as  light  as  possible.     Tie 
on  securely.  

4018.  Have  no  loose  ribbons  or  strings  flying  about  your 
cap  or  dress  to  frighten  the  horses. 


4019.  Fasten  your  hair  up  securely,  and  do  not  blind  your 
eyes  with  curls.  

4020.  Gloves  should  be  of  a  kind  that  will  permit  you  to 
handle  the  reins  easily. 


4021.  Ride  slowly. — The  true  secret  of  learning  to  ride  well 
is  to  ride  slowly.  

4022.  Always  ride  slowly  when  you   start,  and  when  re- 
turning, you  are  near  home. 


4023.  Ride  slowly  up  hill  and  down  hill.     Let.  the  reins  be 
slack  when  ascending ;  tighten  them  as  you  descend. 


4024.  Speak  gently  to  your  horse  ;  pat  his  neck,  and  show 
kindness  to  him ;  it  is  the  surest  and  safest  mode  of  manage- 
ment.   

4025.  In  crossing  a  river,  if  the  horse  should  have  to  swim, 
be  sure  to  let  the  rains  fall  loose.  Do  not  attempt  to  hold  up 
his  head,  he  cannot  swim  if  you  do. 


4026.  On  luhich  side  of  a  lady  should  a  gentleman  ride  ? — 
is  often  asked. 

4021.  On  the  left. — He  can  then  protect  and  assist  the  lady 
much  more  advantageously  than  he  would  if  riding  on  the 
right  side  of  her  horse. 


4028.  A  lady^s  horse  should  be  fifteen  or  fifteen  and  a  half 
bauds  high.     A  hand  is  four  inches. 


653  MRS.    HALE  8     RECEIPTS    FOR    THS    JtlLLIOy. 

4029.  How  to  judge  a  Horse. — If  the  color  be  light  sorrel, 
or  chestnut,  his  feet,  legs,  and  face  white,  these  are  marks  of 
kindness. 

4030.  If  he  is  broad  and  fall  between  the  eyes,  ne  may  be 
depended  on  as  a  horse  of  good  sense,  and  capable  of  being 
trained  to  any  thing. 

4031.  As  respects  snch  horses,  the  more  kindly  yon  treat 
them  the  better  you  will  be  treated  in  return.  Nor  will  a 
horse  of  this  description  stand  a  whip,  if  well  fed. 


4032.  If  you  want  a  safe  horse,  avoid  one  that  is  dish-faced. 
He  may  be  so  far  gentle  as  not  to  scare ;  but  he  will  have  too 
much  go-ahead  in  him  to  be  safe  with  everybody. 


4033.  If  you  want  one  that  will  never  give  out,  never  buy 
a  large,  overgrown  one. — (See  pages  198,  199.) 


HOME    COUNSELS. 

4034.  Prudence. — The  great  end  of  prudence  is  to  give 
cheerfulness  to  those  hours  which  splendor  cannot  gild,  and 
acclamation  cannot  exhilarate. 


4035.  To  he  happy  at  home  is  the  ultimate  resolt  of  all 
ambition  ;  the  end  to  which  every  enterprise  and  labor  tends, 
and  of  which  every  desire  prompts  the  prosecution. 


4036.  It  is  indeed,  at  home  that  every  man  and  woman 
must  be  known,  by  those  who  would  make  a  just  estimate  of 
his  virtue  or  felicity ;  for  smiles  and  embroidery  are  alike, 
occasional,  and  the  mind  is  often  dressed  for  show  in  painted 
honor  and  fictitious  benevolence. — Dr.  Johns'^n. 


403Y.  Beading  aloud,  speaking,  and  particularly  singing, 
affords  a  healthful  exercise ;  while  wind-in strnraents  are  in- 
jurious. 


HOKE  COrXSELS.  653 

4038.  To  young  ladies  the  babit  of  reading  aloud  has  much 
to  recommend  it.  

4039.  As  mere  exercise,  it  is  highly  beneficial  on  account 
of  the  strength  and  vigor  which  it  confers  on  the  chest  and 
lungs;  while  the  mental  pleasure  derived  therefrom  is  one  of 
the  most  delightful  that  can  adorn  the  family  circle. 


4040.  Gathered  around  the  winter's  fire,  or  evening  lamp, 
what  could  be  more  cheerful  for  the  aged  and  infirm,  what 
more  instructive  to  the  younger  branches,  or  more  exemplary 
to  the  careless,  than  the  reading  aloud  of  some  entertaining 
author. 

4041.  Were  females  of  all  ranks  to  adopt  the  practice  more 
than  they  do  at  present,  they  would  bind  to  their  homes  many 
who  are  disposed  to  go  in  search  of  unworthy  enjoyments,  and 
would  add  another  chain  of  delightful  associations,  wherewith 
to  attach  the  young  to  the  family  hearth. 


4042.  Fatuity  from  old  age  cannot  be  cured ;  but  may  be 
prevented  by  employing  the  mind  constantly  in  reading  and  in 
conversation  in  the  evening  of  life. 


4043.  A  Word  to  the  Toung. — Never  be  cast  down  by  trifles. 
If  a  spider  breaks  his  thread  twenty  times,  twenty  times  will 
he  mend  it  again. 

4044.  Make  up  your  minds  to  do  a  thing  and  you  will  do 
it.  Fear  not  if  a  trouble  comes  upon  you ;  keep  up  your 
spirits,  though  the  day  be  a  dark  one 


4045.  If  the  sun  is  going  down,  Iook  up  to  the  stars.  If 
the  earth  is  dark,  keep  your  eye  on  Heaven !  With  God's 
promises,  a  man  or  child  may  be  cheerful 

4046.  Mind  what  you  run  after  !  Xever  be  content  with  a 
bubble  that  will  burst,  firewood  that  will  end  in  smoke  and 
darkness.  _^__ 

404T.  Get  that  which  you  can  keep,  and  which  is  worth 
keeping.     Fight  hard  against  a  hasty  temper.     Anger  will 


654  3HRS.  H ale's   receipts   for  the  million. 

come,  but  resist  it  strongly.     A  fit  of  passion  may  give  you 
cause  to  mourn  all  the  days  of  your  life. 

4048.  ]S"ever  revenge  an  injury.  If  you  have  an  enemy,  act 
kindly  to  him  and  make  him  your  friend.  You  may  not  win 
him  over  at  once,  but  try  again.  Let  one  kindness  be  followed 
by  another,  till  you  have  compassed  your  end.  By  little  and 
little,  great  things  are  completed ;  and  repeated  kindness  will 
Boften  a  heart  of  stone. 


4049.  Whatever  you  do,  do  it  willingly.  A  boy  that  is 
whipped  to  school  never  learns  his  lessons  well.  A  man  who 
is  compelled  to  work  cares  not  how  badly  it  is  performed. 

4050.  He  that  pulls  off  his  coat  cheerfully,  strips  up  his 
sleeves  in  earnest,  and  sings  while  he  works,  is  the  man  of 
action.  

4051.  The  Voice. — In  ordinary  conversation,  the  modula- 
tion and  proper  management  of  the  voice  is  a  point  worthy 
of  the  attention  of  young  ladies ;  for  a  fine  and  melodious 
voice,  '^  sweet  as  music  on  the  waters,"  makes  the  heart-strings 
vibrate  to  the  very  core. 


4052.  The  thin,  small  voice  is  the  most  difficult  to  manage, 
as  it  is  liable  to  degenerate  into  shrillness ;  and  ladies  who 
have  this  kind  of  voice  must  keep  strict  guard  over  their 
temper,  when  within  hearing  of  any  one  on  whom  they  may 
wish  to  make  a  favorable  impression  ;  for  the  very  idea  of  a 
shrill-voiced  scold  makes  us  place  our  hands  to  our  ears. 

4053.  But  with  a  sweet  temper,  a  pretty  little  harmonious 
voice  is  pleasing  enough.  Always  recollect,  however,  that 
affectation,  constraint,  or  striving  for  effect,  is  the  certain  ruin 
of  the  prettiest  voice  in  the  w^orld. 

4054.  Uiility  of  Singing. — It  is  asserted,  and  we  believe 
with  some  truth,  that  singing  is  a  corrective  of  the  too  com- 
mon tendency  to  pulmonic  complaints. 


4055.  Dr.  Rush,   an  eminent   physician,   observes  on   this 
suliject : — The  Germans  are  seldom  afflicted  with  consumption ; 


SPECTACLES.  655 

and  tliis,  I  believe,  is  in  part  occasioned  by  the  strength  which 
their  lungs  acquire  by  exercising  them  in  vocal  music,  for  this 
constitutes  an  essential  branch  of  their  education. 


4056.  The  music  master  of  an  academy  has  furnished  a  re- 
mark still  more  in  favor  of  this  opinion.  He  had  known 
several  instances  of  persons  who  were  strongly  disposed  to 
consumption,  who  were  restored  to  health  by  the  exercise  of 
their  lungs  in  singing. 


405Y.  Music. — Had  I  children,  my  utmost  endeavor  should 
be  to  teach  them  music.  Considering  I  have  no  ear,  nor  ever 
thought  of  music,  the  preference  seems  odd,  and  yet  it  is  em- 
braced on  frequent  reflection.  In  short,  my  aim  would  be  to 
make  them  happy.     I  think  it  the  most  probable  method. 


4058.  Music  is  a  resource  which  will  last  them  their  lives 
unless  they  grow  deaf;  it  depends  upon  themselves,  not  on 
others  ;  always  amuses  and  soothes,  if  not  consoles  ;  and  of 
all  fashionable  pleasures,  it  is  the  cheapest.  It  is  capable  of 
fame,  without  the  danger  of  criticism ;  is  susceptible  of  en- 
thusiasm, and  is  sure  of  being  gratified  in  Heaven. — Horace 
Walpole,  

4059.  Spectacles — Use  of. — The  following  rules  will  enable 
any  one  to  judge  whether  his  eye-sight  may  be  assisted  or 
preserved  by  the  use  of  glasses. 

4060.  When  we  are  obliged  to  remove  small  objects  to  a 
distance  from  the  eye  to  see  them  distinctly. 

4061.  If  we  need  more  light  than  formerly,  as,  for  instance, 
if  we  place  the  candle  between  the  eye  and  the  object. 


4062.  If,  on  attentively  considering  a  neat  object,  it  fatigues 
the  eye,  and  becomes  confused,  or  has  a  kind  of  mist  before  it. 


4063.  When  small  printed   letters  seem  to  run  into  each 
other,  and,  by  looking  steadfastly  on  them,  appear  double  o 
treble. 


656  MKS.    HALE  S     RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION 

4064.  If  the  eyes  are  so  fatigued  by  a  little  exercise,  that 
we  are  obliged  to  shut  them  from  time  to  time. 


4065.  When  these  circumstances  occur,  either  separately 
or  together,  glasses  should  be  immediately  resorted  to  ;  other- 
wise the  sight  will  be  liable  to  be  injured  loy  the  constant  effort 
required. 


PARLOR    AMUSEMENTS. 

4066.  Riddles, — It  may  be  asked,  What  is  a  riddle  ?  Ah  I 
what  is  it?  That's  just  the  rub  !  Well,  then,  it  is  a  queer 
affair,  without  shape,  size,  humanity,  compassion,  breath,  or 
sex.  It  is  caressed,  abused,  courted,  slighted,  jostled,  hustled, 
and,  notwithstanding  all  that  is  said  against  it,  universally 
looked  upon  as  a  welcome  guest  when  it  is  not  in  a  dull  mood. 


406 1.  The  oldest  riddle  on  record  is  that  put  forth  by  Sam- 
son (Judges  xiv.) — ''  Out  of  the  eater  came  forth  meat,  and 
out  of  the  strong  came  forth  sweetness."  His  solution  is  well 
known,  as  it  is  explained  in  the  same  chapter. 

4068.  31.  Voltaii^e's  Biddle. — What  is  the  longest,  and  yet 
the  shortest  thing  in  the  world ;  the  swiftest  and  the  most 
slow ;  the  most  divisible  and  the  most  extended ;  the  least 
valued,  and  the  most  regretted  ;  without  which  nothing  can  be 
done;  which  devours  every  thing,  however  small,  and  yet  gives 
life  and  spirit  to  all  things  however  great?     Answer — Time. 


4069.  Enigmas  may  be  founded  upon  simple  catches,  like 
conundrums,  in  which  form  they  are  usually  called  Riddles, 
such  as — 

*'  Though  you  set  me  on  foot, 
I  shall  be  on  my  head." 
40t0.  The  answer  is,  A  nail  in  a  shoe. 


4071.  Ancient  Enigma. — The  ancients  fabled  a  monster 
whom  they  named  the  Sphinx,  and  whom  they  described  as 
having  the  head  and  breasts  of  a  woman,  the  body  of  a  dog, 
the  tail  of  a  serpent,  the  wings  of  a  bird,  the  paws  of  a  lion, 
and  a  human  voice 


PARLOR    AMUSEMENTS.  05*? 

40^2.  This  monster,  it  was  said,  was  sent  into  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Thebes  by  Juno,  who  wished  to  punish  the  family  of 
Cadmus.  It  was  further  stated,  that  he  laid  this  part  of 
Bceotia  under  continual  alarms,  by  iwopo^ing  enigmas^  and 
devouring  the  inhabitants  if  unable  to  explain  them. 


40^3.  Also,  that  as  the  calamity  of  this  monster  was  become 
an  object  of  public  concern,  and  as  the  successful  explanation 
of  an  enigma  would  end  in  the  death  of  the  Sphinx,  Creon 
promised  his  crowu  and  Jocasta  to  him.  who  succeeded  in  the 
attempt.  

4074.  The  enigma  propose^l  was  this  : — 
'^  What  animal  in  the  morning  walks  on  four  feet,  at  noon 
on  two,  and  in  the  evening  on  three  ?" 


4075.  CEdipus  solved  the  enigma. — on  which  the  monster 
dashed  his  head  against  a  rock,  and  perished. 

4076.  Answer— Man;  in  the  morning,  or  days  of  infancy, 
he  crawls,  or  walks  on  M-fours;  at  noon,  or  in  the  days  of 
youth  and  middle  age,  he  uses  two  feet  only ;  in  the  evening, 
or  in  his  old  age,  he  requires  the  support  of  a  staff, .  so  that  he 
raay  be  said  to  walk  upon  three  feet 


4077.  Puzzles  vary  very  much.  One  of  the  simplest  that 
we  know  is  this  : — Take  away  half  of  thirteen^  and  let  eight 
remain. 

4078.  Write  XIII  on  a  slate,  or  on  a  piece  of  paper — • 
rub  out  the  lower  half  of  the  tif>:ures,  and  VIII  will  remain. 


4079.  What  are  termed  ''  practical  puzzles''  are  cut  out  of 
wood,  cardboard,  ivory,  &c.,  and  may  be  purchased  at  the 
toyshops. 

4080.  The  three  Jealous  Husbands. — This  is  a  very  ingeni- 
ous puzzle,  and  should  be  performed  with  small  counters  of 
two  different  colors. 

4081.  Three  jealous  husbands,  with  their  wives,  having  to 
42 


658  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS     FOR    THE    MILLION. 

cross  a  small  stream,  find  a  boat  without  an  owner,  which  is 
only  sufficiently  large  to  carry  two  persons  at  a  time. 

4082.  Wanted  to  know, — how  the  six  persons  can  tr^,nsport 
themselves  over  the  river  in  pairs,  so  that  no  woman  shall  be  left 
in  company  with  any  of  the  men  unless  her  husband  is  present. 

4083.  Ansiver.' — At  first  two  wives  cross  the  river,  then  one 
returns  and  takes  over  the  remaining  wife  ;  after  which  she  re- 
crosses,  and  stays  with  her  husband,  and  the  two  husbands 
cross  over.  Then  a  husband  and  wife  come  back,  and  the  two 
husbands  cross.  Then  the  wife  returns  and  takes  over  one  of 
the  others,  and  lastly  the  husband  of  the  remaining  one  comes 
back  for  his  wife.  

4084.  Arithmetical  Puzzle, — Arrange  the  figures  1  to  9  in 
such  order  that,  by  adding  them  together,  they  amount  to  100. 

15 

36 

41 

It  is  done  thus  : —  — 

98 
2 

100 


4085.  The  Charade  is  a  poetical  or  other  composition 
founded  upon  a  word,  each  syllable  of  which  constitutes  a 
noun,  and  the  whole  of  which  word  constitutes  another  noun, 
of  somewhat  a  different  meaning  from  those  supplied  by  its 
separate  syllables.  

4086.  Words  which  fully  answer  these  conditions  are  the 
best  for  the  purposes  of  charades  ;  though  many  other  words 
are  employed.  

4087.  In  writing,  the  first  syllable  is  termed  "  My  first,'^^ 
the  second  syllable,  *'  My  second,^^  and  the  complete  word, 
**  My  whole,^^  ^ 

4088.  Charade, — 

My  first  a  mineral,  England  can  produce, 
Much  prized  for  ornament  as  well  as  use  ; 


THE   AUTHOR.  G59 

It  adds  new  beauty  to  our  '^  cottage  homes," 
And  to  the  fireside  of  the  wealthy  comes. 

My  second  is  a  rough  and  boisterous  thing, 
And  much  calamity  and  woe  may  bring  ; 
My  whole  is  but  a  little  fluttering  bird, 
Which  near  to  men's  abode  is  often  heard. 
4089.  Answer. — Sparrow. 


4090.  Ventriloquism. — The  main  secret  of  ventriloquism 
simply  consists  in  first  making  a  strong  and  deep  inspiration, 
by  which  a  considerable  quantity  of  air  is  introduced  into  the 
lungs,  to  be  afterward  acted  upon  by  the  flexible  powers,  of  the 
larynx,  or  cavity  situated  behind  the  tongue  and  the  windpipe  ; 
thus  prepared,  the  expiration  should  be  slow  and  gradual. 
Any  person,  by  practice  can,  therefore,  obtain  more  or  less 
expertness  in  this  exercise,  in  which,  though  not  apparently, 
the  voice  is  still  modified  by  the  mouth  and  tongue  ;  and  it  is 
in  the  concealment  of  this  aid  that  much  of  the  perfection  of 
ventriloquism  lies.  

4091.  Curious  Facts. — If  a  tallow  candle  be  placed  in  a 
gun  and  be  shot  at  a  door,  it  will  go  through  without  sustain- 
ing any  injury  ;  and  if  a  musket-ball  be  fired  into  water,  it  will 
rebound  and  be  flattened  as  if  fired  against  any  hard  substance 


4092.  A  musket-ball  may  be  fired  through  a  pane  of  glass, 
and  if  the  glass  be  suspended  by  a  thread  it  will  make  no  dif- 
ference, and  the  thread  not  even  vibrate. 


4093.  The  Author. — If  you  would  write  to  any  purpose, 
you  must  be  perfectly  free  from  without,  in  the  first  place,  and 
yet  more  free  from  within. 


4094.  Give  yourself  the  natural  rein  ;  think  on  no  pattern, 
no  patron,  no  paper,  no  press,  no  public  ;  think  on  nothing, 
but  follow  your  own  impulses. 


4095.  Give  yourself  as  you  are,  what  you  are,  and  how  you 
see  it.  Every  man  sees  with  his  own  eyes,  or  does  not  see  at 
all.     This  is  incontrovertibly  true. 


660  MRS.    bale's    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

4096.  Bring  out  what  you  have.  If  you  have  nothing,  be 
an  honest  beggar  rather  than  a  respectable  thief. 

4091.  Letter-wHting. — Great  care  and  attention  should  be 
devoted  to  epistolatory  correspondence,  as  nothing  exhibits 
want  of  taste  and  judgment  so  much  as  a  slovenly  letter. 

4098.  Postage. — Since  the  establishment  of  the  cheap 
postage  it  is  recognized  as  a  rule  that  all  letters  should  be  pre- 
paid ;  indeed,  many  persons  make  it  a  point  of  never  taking  in 
an  unpaid  letter.  

4099.  Always  put  a  stamp  on  your  envelope  at  the  top  of 
the  right-hand  corner. 


4100.  Let  the  direction  be  written  very  plain ;  this  will  save 
the  postman  trouble,  and  facilitate  business  by  preventing 
mistakes.  

4101.  At  the  head  of  your  letter,  in  the  right-hand  corner, 
put  your  address  in  full,  with  the  day  of  the  month  underneath  ; 
do  not  omit  this,  though  you  may  be  writing  to  your  most  in- 
timate friend  three  or  four  times  a  day. 


4102.  What  you  have  to  say  in  your  letter,  say  as  plainly 
as  possible,  as  if  you  were  speaking ;  this  is  the  best  rule ;  do 
not  revert  three  or  four  times  to  one  circumstance,  but  finish 
UD  as  you  go  on.  

4103.  Let  your  signature  be  written  as  plainly  as  possible 
(many  mistakes  will  be  avoided,  especially  in  writing  to 
strangers)  and  without  any  flourishes,  as  they  tend  not  to  add 
in  any  way  to  the  harmony  of  your  letter. 


4104.  A  letter  of  introduction  is  to  be  enclosed  in  an  un- 
sealed  envelope.  

4105.  In  writing  notes  of  invitation,  adhere   to   the    old 
forms,  never  use  any  unusual  phrase  or  flourish  about  it. 

4106.  In  letters  of  ceremony  employ  the  third  person,  thus, 
*^  Mr.  B.  requests  the  honor  of  Mr.  A.,"  &c. 


LETTER-WRITING.  661 

4101.  Romantic  ladies  are  sentimental  in  tlieir  letters;  the 
warm-toned  are  passionate:  both  styles  are  bad;  avoid  them. 


4108.  Never  be  guilty  of  falsehood  by  the  pen  ;  it  is  pre- 
meditated sin,  and  seems  worse  than  falsehood  of  speech. 


4109.  Use  no  preamble  in  your  letters,  come  at  once  to  the 
point,  state  what  you  have  to  state,  and  conclude. 


4110.  IN'either  sex  should  enter  into  long  details,  or  give 
vent  to  their  feelings  in  letters.  They  are  always  a  standing 
memorial  for,  or  against — we  must  say  generally  against,  for 
it  requires  a  peculiar  talent  to  write  a  good  letter. 


4111.  If  you  write  to  a  stranger  for  information,  or  on  your 
own  business,  fail  not  to  send  a  stamped  envelope  with  your 
address,  plainly  written  ;  this  will  not  fail  to  procure  you  an 
answer.  

4112.  If  you  are  not  a  good  writer,  it  is  advisable  to  use 
the  best  ink,  the  best  paper,  and  the  best  pens,  as,  though  they 
may  not  alter  the  character  of  your  handwriting,  yet  they  will 
assist  to  make  your  writing  look  better. 


4113.  The  paper  on  which  you  write  should  be  clean,  and 
neatly  folded.  

4114.  There  should  not  be  stains  on  the  envelope  ;  if  other- 
wise, it  is  only  an  indication  of  your  own  slovenliness. 


4115.   Care  should  be  taken  in  giving  titled  persons  to  whom 
you  write,  their  proper  directions. 


4116.  For  a  love  letter,  good  paper  is  indispensable.  When 
it  can  be  procured,  that  of  a  costly  quality,  gold-edged,  per- 
fumed, or  ornamented  in  the  French  style,  may  be  properly 
used.  

4111.  The  letter  should  be  carefully  enveloped,  and  nicely 
sealed  with  a  fancy  wafer — not  a  common  one,  of  course, 
where  any  other  can  be  had  ;  or,  what  is  better,  plain  or  fancy 
sealing-wax.     As  all  persons  are  more  or  less  governed  by 


662  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

first  impressiofts  and  externals,  the  whole  affair  should  be  as 
neat  and  elegant  as  possible. 

4118.  Young  ladies  should  never  engage  in  correspondence 
with  young  gentlemen  who  are  not  near  relations,  unless  with 
the  kuovvledge  and  consent  of  parents  and  guardians. 


4119.  A  young  lady  should  on  »o  account  correspond  with 
a  married  man. 

4120.  Letters  of  business  or  inquiry  may  be  sometimes 
properly  addressed  by  a  young  lady  to  a  married  man — but 
when  a  correspondence  becomes  necessary,  then  write  to  the 
wife,  not  the  husband. 


4121.  Dress  of  Children^  etc. — At  home  nothing  can  be 
more  foolish  or  more  hurtful  than  to  load  a  child  with  finery 
which  confines  it,  and  which  its  every  movement  may  destroy 
and  spoih  When  at  home  or  in  the  play-ground,  the  simplest 
covering  only  is  necessary,  so  that  it  be  strong  and  warm. 


4122.  It  is  a  vulgar  error  to  suppose  that  children  should 
be  left  bare  as  to  their  legs,  their  chest,  and  arras,  and  that 
men  and  women,  who  are  so  much  stronger,  should  be  covered. 


4123.  The  truth  is,  that  more  children  die  through  the 
stupidity  of  their  parents  in  this  respect,  than  from  any  single 
disease  which  can  be  mentioned.  "   , 


4124.  ^'  I  am  certain,"  says  a  great  medical  authority,  ^'  that 
half  the  deaths  of  children  in  the  middle  and  upper  classes  of 
society  is  to  be  attributed  to  the  vanity  and  ignorance  of  their 
parents.  

4125.  I  never  see  a  poor  child  dressed  as  a  young  High- 
lander, or  in  any  fancy  dress,  with  its  uncomfortable  look  and 
naked  appearance,  its  poor  bare  knees  and  open  neck,  but 
I  prophecy  for  that  child,  whilst  I  pity,  a  future  of  colds, 
coughs,  and  throat  disease,  and  a  probable  death  of  con- 
sumption." 

4126.  Another  important  thing  in  the  dress  of  children, 
besides  keeping   them  warmly  clad,  is   to   keep   them  well, 


HINTS   TO    MOTHERS.  663 

though  loosely  shod.     The  evils  of  a  tight  shoe  or  boot  in  a 
grown-up  person  is  ten  times  multiplied  in  a  child. 

4127.  Splay-feet,  knock-knees,  or  bandy-legs,  are  the  con- 
sequence, all  of  which  the  ignorant  would  certainly  lay  to 
nature,  though  they  are  nothing  but  the  production  of  an  art 
as  cruel  as  it  is  ignorant,  and  which  is  entirely  contrary  to 
beauty  of  Form,  or  to  Good  Taste. 


4128.  High  Shoulders. — A  medical  correspondent  of  an 
English  paper  attributes  the  high  shoulder  and  the  lateral 
curvature  of  the  spine,  which  so  frequently  disfigures  young 
girls,  to  the  shoulder  straps  of  their  dresses  resting  below  the 
shoulder  and  on  the  muscles  of  the  arm,  instead  of  being  ou 
the  shoulder,  which  compels  the  wearer  to  be  constantly 
hitching  her  shoulders  to  keep  up  her  dress,  an  action  that 
results  in  forcing  up  the  shoulder,  a  distortion  of  the  chest, 
and  a  lateral  curvature  of  the  spine. 


4129.  He  also  states  that  from  the  dangerous  practice,  and 
the  consequent  exposure  of  the  chest  to  the  cold,  that  inward 
tubercles,  are  formed,  and  not  unfrequently  consumption  is 
engendered.  

4130.  Sudden  alterations  of  heat  and  cold  are  dangerous 
especially  to  the  young  and  the  aged. 

4131.  Therefore,  clothing,  in  quantity  and  quality,  should 
be  adapted  to  the  alternations  of  night  and  day,  and  of  the 
seasons. 


4132.  And  therefore^  also,  drinking  cold  water  when  the 
body  is  hot,  and  hot  tea  and  soups  when  cold,  are  productive 
of  many  evils.  . 

4133.  A  bed-room,  or  nursery,  ought  to  be  spacious  and 
lofty,  dry,  airy,  and  not  inhabited  during  the  day. 

4134.  No  servants,  if  possible,  should  be  suffered  to  sleep 
in  the  same  room ;  and  no  linen  or  washed  clothes  should  ever 
be  hung  there  to  dry,  as  they  contaminate  the  air  in  which  so 
considerable  a  portion  of  infantine  life  must  be  spent. 


664  3IES.  hale's   eeceifts   for   the   MTLLIOy. 

4135.  The  consequences  attending  a  vitiated  atmosi:)bere  in 

such  rooms  are  various,  and  often  fatal. 


4136.  Change   of  apparel  greatly  promotes  the  secretion 
from  the  skin,  so  necessary  to  health. 

4137.  But  no   damp  clothing  should  be  worn,  nor  damp 
linen  put  on  the  beds.     Every  thing  should  be  well  aired. 


4138.  Feather-beds  should  be  banished  from  nurseries,  as 
they  are  an  unnatural  and  debilitating  contrivance. 

4139.  The  windows  should  seldom  be  opened  at  night,  but 
left  open  the  whole  day,  in  fine,  clear  weather.  A  door  into 
the  sleeping  room  may  be  left  open. 


4140.  Lastly,  the  bedstead  must  not  be  placed  too  low  on 
the  floor  ;  nor  is  it  proper  to  let  children  sleep  on  a  couch 
which  is  made  without  any  elevation  from  the  ground;  be- 
cause the  most  mephitic  and  pernicious  stratum  of  air  in  an 
apartment,  is  that  within  one  or  two  feet  from  the  floor,  while 
the  most  v>'holesome,  or  atmospheric  air,  is  in  the  middle  of 
the  room,  and  the  inflammable  gas  ascends  to  the  top. ' 


4141.  The  power  of  Kindness. — Soft  words  soften  the 
Boul. — Angry  words  are  fuel  to  the  flame  of  wrath,  and  make 
it  blaze  more  freely.  

4142.  Kind  words  make  other  people  good-natured — cold 
words  freeze  people,  and  hot  words  scorch  them,  and  bitter 
words  make  them  bitter,  and  wrathful  words  make  them 
wrathful.  

4143.  There  is  such  a  rush  of  all  other  kinds  of  words  in 
our  days,  that  it  seems  desirable  to  give  kind  words  a  chance 
among  them.  

4144.  There  are  vain  words,  and  idle  words,  and  hasty 
words,  and  spiteful  words,  and  silly  words,  and  empty  words, 
and  profane  words,  and  boisterous  words,  and  warlike  words. 


4145.  Kind  words  also  produce  their  own  image  on  men's 


DANCING.  665 

souls,  and  a  beautiful  image  it  is.  They  sooth,  and  quiet, 
and  comfort  the  hearer.  They  shame  him  out  of  his  sour,  and 
morose,  and  unkind  feelings.  We  have  not  yet  begun  to  use 
kind  words  in  such  abundance  as  they  ought  to  be  used. 


4146.  Gossiping. — If  you  wish  to  cultivate  a  gossiping, 
meddling,  censorious  spirit  in  your  children,  be  sure  when  they 
come  home  from  church,  a  visit,  or  any  other  place  where  you 
do  not  accompany  them,  to  ply  them  with  questions  concerning 
what  everybody  wore,  how  everybody  looked,  and  what  every- 
body said  and  did  ;  and  if  you  find  any  thing  in  this  to  censure, 
always  do  it  in  their  hearing. 

41 4Y.  Amusements  for  Children. — These  should  be  pro- 
vided. Children  must  play ;  a  large  portion  of  their  waking 
hours  must  be  passed  in  action  if  we  would  make  them  healthy 
and  happy.  

4148.  School  and  study  should  not  occupy  more  than  three 
hours  of  the  day,  till  the  child  is  over  ten  years  of  age. 


4149.   Out  door  play  is  best  for  children  when  the  season 
and  weather  will  permit. 


4150.  In  door,  one  of  the  best  exercises  for  children  and 
youth  is  dancing.  

4151.  Let  your  children  learn  to  dance. 


4152.   The  abuse  of  the  art  can  be  avoided,  and  its  benefits 


are  great. 


4153.    Terms  used  to  describe  the  movements  of  dances — 


4154.  Balancez — Set  to  partners. 


4155.  Chaine  Anglaise — Tlie  top  and  bottom  couples  right 
and  left. 

4156.  Chaine  Anglaise  double — The  right  and  left  double. 


415t.   Chaine  des  dames — The  ladies'  chain. 


666  MKS.  hale's   keceipts   fob   the   illLLIO:^. 

4158.  Chaine  des  dames  double — The  ladies'  chain  double, 
which  is  performed  bv  all  the  ladies  commenciDg  at  the  same 
time.  

4159.  Cha^sez — Move  to  the  right  and  left. 


4160.  Chassez  croisez — Gentlemen  change  places  with  part- 
ners, and  back  again.  

4161.  Demie  Chaine  Anglaise — The  four  opposite  persons 
half  right  and  left.  

4ilQ2.  Demie  Promenade — All  eight  half  promenade. 


4163.  Dosd-dos — The  two    opposite  persons  pass   round 
each  other.  

4164.  Demie  Moulinet — The  ladies  all  advance  to  the  centre, 

giying  hands  and  return  to  places. 


4165.  La  grand  chaine — All  eight  chassez  quite  round, 
giving  allernatelv  right  and  left  hands  to  partners,  beginning 
with  the  right.  

4166.  Le  grand  i^ond — All  join  hands  and  advance  and 
retire  twice.  

416t.  Fas  d^Allemande — The  gentlemen  turn  the  partners 
under  their  arms. 

416B.   Traversez — The  two  opposite  persons  change  places. 


4169.    ViS'd'Vis — The  opposite  partner. 


4110.  La  GaJopade — Is  an  extremely  graceful  and  spirited 
dance  in  a  continual  chassez.  An  unlimited  number  may  join  ; 
it  is  danced  in  couples  as  waltzing.  This  is  a  pretty  dance 
for  children 


THE   TRAININQ    OF    DAUGnTERS,    ETC.  667 


THE  TRAINING  OF  DAUGHTERS,  ETC. 

4171.  Make  them  religious ;  the  foundation  of  all  excellence 
is  in  true  piety  of  the  heart. 

Mothers,  who  wish  not  only  to  discharge  well  their  own 
duties  in  the  domestic  circle,  but  to  train  up  their  daugh- 
ters at  a  later  day  to  make  happy  and  comfortable  firesides  for 
their  families,  should  watch  well,  and  guard  well,  the  notions 
which  they  imbibe,  and  with  which  they  grow  up. 


4172.  One  main  falsity  abroad  in  this  age  is  the  notion,  that 
women,  unless  compelled  to  it  by  absolute  poverty,  are  out  of 
place  when  engaged  in  domestic  affairs. 


4173.  Let  mothers  avoid  such  danger.  If  they  would  do 
so,  they  must  bring  up  their  daughters  from  the  first  with  the 
idea  that  in  this  world  it  is  required  to  give  as  well  as  to 
receive,  to  minister  as  well  as  to  enjoy ;  that  every  person  is 
bound  to  be  useful,  practically,  literally  useful,  in  his  or  her 
sphere.  

4174.  Woman''s  sphere  is  the  house — her  home ;  its  con- 
cerns and  demands  :  these  are  her  first  duties. 


4175.  Once  really  imbued  with  this  belief,  and  taught  to  see 
how  much  the  happiness  of  woman  herself,  as  well  as  her  family, 
depends  on  this  part  of  her  discharge  of  duty,  a  young  girl 
will  usually  be  anxious  to  learn  all  that  her  mother  is  disposed 
to  teach.  

4176.  She  will  be  proud  and  happy  to  aid  in  any  domestic 
occupations  assigned  to  her,  which  need  never  be  made  so 
heavy  as  to  interfere  with  the  peculiar  duties  of  her  age,  or  its 
peculiar  delights.  

4177.  If  a  mother  wishes  to  see  her  daughter  become  a 
good,  happy,  and  rational  woman,  never  let  her  admit  of  con- 
tempt for  domestic  occupations,  or  even  suffer  them  to  be 
deemed  secondary.  They  may  be  varied  in  character  by 
station,  but  they  can  never  be  secondary  to  a  woman. 


668  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS   FOR    THE    MILLION. 

4178.  Therefore  teach  your  daughters  to  keep  accounts,  so 
that  they  may  learn  the  value  of  money. 


4179.    Teach  them  to  work,  that  they  may  not  waste  their 
time  if  rich,  nor  be  helpless  if  poor 


4180.  Teach  them  cooking,  that  they  may  guard  against 
the  waste  of  servants,  and  be  able  to  help  themselves  and 
others,  if  necessary. 

4181.  Educate  the  mind,  refine  the  taste,  and  exalt  the 
character,  by  keeping  the  love  of  excellence,  in  all  they  do, 
before  them.  

4182.  Then  they  will  be  fitted  to  shine  in  domcvstic  and 
social  life,  and  to  understand  Literature,  Art,  and  Science, 
as  these  conduce  to  goodness  and  happiness. 


4183.  The  Mother  at  Home. — By  the  quiet  fireside  at  home, 
the  true  mother,  in  the  midst  of  her  children,  is  sowing  as  in 
the  vases  of  the  earth,  the  seeds  of  plants  that  shall  some  time 
give  to  Heaven  the  fragrance  of  their  blossoms,  and  whose 
fruit  shall  be  to  us  a  rosary  of  angelic  deeds,  the  noblest  offer- 
ing that  she  can  make  through  the  ever  ascending  and  expand- 
ing souls  of  her  children  to  her  Maker. 


4184.  Every  word  that  she  utters  goes  from  heart  to  heart 
^  with  a  power  of  which  she  little  dreams.     Philosophers  tell  us 

in  their  speculations  that  we  cannot  lift  a  finger  without  mov- 
ing distant  spheres.  

4185.  Solemn  is  the  thought  that  every  word  that  falls  from 
a  mother's  lip,  every  expression  of  her  countenance,  may  leave 
an  indelible  impress  upon  the  young  souls  about  her,  and  form 
the  underlaying  strain  of  that  education  which  people's  Heaven 
with  celestial  beings,  and  gives  to  the  white  brow  of  the  angel, 
next  to  the  grace  of  God,  its  crown  of  glory. 


4186.    Teach  your  Children  Obedience. 
It  is  unspeakable  what  a  blessing  it  is  to  a  child,   what 
a  saving   of   un happiness   and   wickedness   in    after   life,   to 


SENTIMENTS   OF   FLOWERS.  669 

be  early  taught  absolute  obedience;  there  must  be  no  hesitat- 
ing or  asking  why,  but  what  a  mother  says  must  at  once  be 
done. 


418Y.  The  young  twig  bends  easily,  but  remember,  that  in 
after  years  it  grows  hard,  and  will  break  before  you  bend  it. 
A  little  steadiness  at  first  will  save  you  many  years'  sorrow. 


4188.  While  you  insist  upon  obedience,  however,  you  must 
take  care  that  you  do  not  provoke  a  child,  and  tempt  it  to  dis- 
obedience by  unreasonable  and  foolish  commands. 


4189.  **  Provoke  not  your  children  to  wrath  ;"  and  when  it 
is  necessary  to  punish  them,  see  that  it  never  be  done  vio- 
lently and  in  a  passion,  but  as  a  duty. 

4190.  Going  in  Debt. — A  lady  should  never  go  in  debt, 
unless  she  is  sure  of  having  the  means  of  payment. 

4191.  Shopping. — Never  gt)  shopping  for  amusement — ^yoa 
rob  the  shopkeeper  of  his  time  and  waste  your  own. 

4192.  A  young  lady  oX  home  can  find  or  make  pleasant 
amusements ;  one  of  the  most  healthful  is  the  study  of  botany 
or  flowers.  

4193.  A  garden,  or  rather  the  fields  and  woods,  will  be  filled 
with  new  interest  if  you  love  the  flowers,  and  can  read  their 
history.  • 

4194.  The  language  of  flowers  has  been  studied  and 
arranged  by  the  people  of  the  East.  A  few  specimens  of  this 
may  be  admitted  here,  as  an  amusement  for  those  who  are  idle 
or  curious. 


SENTIMENTS  OF  FLOWERS. 

4195.  What  each  flower  enumerated  signifies  when  sent  to 
a  friend  or  lover.  

4196.  Almond y  flowering — Concealed  love. 


G70  ^'^^'    HAJLE's    BBCEIPT3    FOR    THB    lOUJOir. 

419T.  AUhea,  Fmtex — ^I  am  deeply  in  love. 


4198.  Amaranth — Immortalitv,  or  piety. 


4199.  Anemone — Fading  hope. 


4200.  Arbor-Vitw — Unchanging  friendship. 


4201.  Auricula,  Scarlet — ^Pride.     Yon  are  proni 


4202.  Bachelor's  Bidton—Ko^e  in  lore. 


4203.  Balm — I  long  for  your  society. 


4204.  Balsamine — Impatieoce ;  or,  pray  come. 


4205.  Bay  Leaf- — I  change  bnt  in  dying. 


4206.  Box — I  belicTe  in  yonr  constancy. 

J— * 

4207.  JSii^fercuj>— ^Riches.     Yon  are  rich. 


4208.  Calla  Mkiopica — Magnificent  beauty. 

4209.  Carnation — ^Pride  and  beanty. 

4210.  Camelia  Japonica — Surpassing  excellence. 


4211.    Ce^ar— Think  of  me. 


4212.   China  Astar—Csipnce. 


4*213.   Cypress — ^Despair,  and  without  hope. 


4214.  Dahlia — ^Dignity — I  will  sustain  it 


4215.  Daisy — ^Youthful  beauty. 


4216.  Dandelion — Goquetry,  I  accuse  you  of. 


4217.  Eglantine — I  wound  to  heal. 


SENimENTS   OF   FLOWEBS-  611 

4218.  Forget-me-not — True  love  forever. 


4219.  Fox-glove — Insincerity.     You  are  false. 


4220.   Geranium — Gentility  and  elegance. 


4221.   Gillij' Flower— Thou  art  fair. 


4222.   Golden  Rod — Encouragement.     You  will^ucceed. 


4223.   Grass — Submission. 


'4224.  HearVs  Ease — Love  in  idleness. 


4225.  Heliotrope — Devotion.     Let  us  pray  for  each  other. 


4226.  Hellebore — Calumny.     You  have  listened. 
422T.  Hollyhock — Ambition.     I  seek  glory. 
4228.  Honeysuckle — Dost  thou  love  me  ? 


4229.  Houstonia — Content  ever  with  thee. 


4230.  Hyacinth,  Purple — Sorrow.     I  am  sad. 
423  L  Hydrangea — Heartlessness. 


4232.  Ivy — Wedded  love.     We  are  happy. 


4233.  Jasmine,  White — I  desire  a  return  of  my  affection. 


4234.   Larkspur — Haughtiness. 


4235.  Laurel — Ambition.     I  will  win. 


4236.  Laurustinus — A  token.     Pray  remember 


4237.  Lavender — Acknowledgment. 


4238.  Lilac — Fastidiousness. 


672  iiKB.  Hale's   eeceifts  foe  the   inLUOM 

4239.  LUy,  WTiiie—Vxinij  and  beauty. 


4240.  Magnolia — You  are  beautifuL 


4241.  Marigold — Jealousy — I  have  cause. 


4242.  Mignionetie — I  lire  for  thee. 


4243.   Moss — Patience,  or  pray  wait. 


4244.    Oak-Leaf — Couracre.     I  will  endure. 


4245.  Passion- Flower — Pietv.  Trust  in  God. 


4246.  Periwinkle — Memory.     Xever  forget. 
424T.  Pink — Household  love.     I  am  at  home. 


4248.  Poppy — Forgetfulness. 


4249.  Primrose — Neglected  merit. 


4250.  Bose — ^Lotc,  or  I  love  you. 


4251.  Bue — Disdain.     Go  :  never  return. 


4252.  Saffron — Marriage — when  ? 

4253.  Snow-Drop — Faithful  in  adversity. 

4254.  Thyme — Thriftiness.     I  am  diligent 


4255.    Tulip — Beautiful  eyes.     Look  on  me. 


4256.    ViolH — I  dream  of  thee. 


4257.    Willow — Forsaken — never  more. 


4258.    WheaJl — Prosperity — I  wish  thee. 


4259.   Fete — Penitence.     I  am  sorry. 


POISONOUS    PL-\NTS.     .  l]73 

4260  Poisonous  Plants. — Plants  with  five  stamens  and  one 
pistil,  with  a  dull-colorod  lurid  carolhi,  and  a  nauseous  sieklj 
smell,  are  always  poisonous.  A^  fnhnrro^  henbane,  nightshade, 
thorn-apple. 

Umbelliferous  plants  of  the  aquatic  kind,  and  with  a 
nauseous  scent,  are  always  poisonous.  As  water-hemlock, 
coiV'parslei/. 

4261.  Plants  with  ZaWa/e  corollas  and  seeds  in  capsules,  are 
frequently  poisonous.     As  S7iap-dragon,  fox-glove. 


4262.  Plants  from  which  issue  a  milky  juice  on  beinp:  bro- 
ken, are  poisonous,  unless  they  bear  compound  flowers.  As 
mil/C'iceed,  dogbane.  

4263..  Plants  having  any  appendage  to  the  calyx  or  corolla, 
and  eight  or  more  stamens,  are  generally  poisonous.  As  col- 
umbine, iiasturtion.  

4264.  Plants  having  twelve  or  more  stamens,  and  a  nauseous 
sickly  smell,  are  generally  poisonous. 

4265.  To  ascertain  the  Length  of  the  Bay  and  Night. — At 
any  time  of  the  years  add  twelve  hours  to  the  time  of  the  sun^s 
setting,  and  from  the  sum  subtract  the  time  of  rising,  for  the 
length  of  the  day.  Subtract  the  time  of  setting  from  twelve 
hours,  and  to  the  remainder  add  the  time  of  rising  next  morn- 
ing, for  the  length  of  the  night.  These  rules  are  equally  true 
for  apparent  time. 

4266.  Leap  Year. — Leap  years  are  those  that  are  exactly  . 
divisible  by  four,  and  also  by  400,  and  not  by  100.     The  year 
1900,  therefore,  will  not  be  a  leap  year. 


4266.  True  Time.— Two  kinds  of  time  are  used  in  Alma- 
nacs ;  clock  or  mean  time  in  some,  and  apparent  or  su)i  time 
in  others.  Clock  tune  is  always  right,  while  sun  time  i^iries 
every  day.  People  generally  supi)ose  it  is  twelve  o'clock  when 
the  sun  is  due  south,  or  at  a  [)ro[)orly  nnule  noon-mark.  But 
this  is  a  mistake.  The  sun  is  seldom  on  the  meridian  al  twelve 
43 


674  MRS.  H ale's   receipts   for  the  million. 

o^clock ;  indeed  this  is  the  ease  only  on  four  days  of  the  year  ; 
namely,  April  15,  June  15,  September  1,  and  December  24. 


4268.  The  time  when  the  sun  is  on  the  meridian  or  at  the 
noon-mark  is  also  given  to  the  nearest  second,  for  every  day 
in  the  year.  This  affords  a  ready  means  of  obtaining  correct 
time  and  for  setting  a  clock  by  using  a  noon-mark,  adding  or 
subtracting  as  the  sun  is  slow  or  fast. 


4269.  Old-fashioned  Almanacs,  which  use  apparent  time, 
give  the  rising  and  setting  of  the  sun's  centre,  and  make  no 
allowance  for  the  effect  of  refraction  of  the  sun's  rays  by  the 
atmosphere.  The  more  modern  and  improved  Almanacs, 
w^hich  use  clock  time,  give  the  rising  and  the  setting  of  the 
sun's  upper  limbj  and  duly  allow  for  refraction. 

4210.  Velocity  of  Sound  and  Light. — Sound  moves  about 
thirteen  miles  in  a  minute.  So  that  if  we  hear  a  clap  of 
thunder  half  a  minute  after  the ''flash,  we  may  calculate  that 
the  discharge  of  electricity  is  six  and  a  half  miles  off. 


42^1.  In  one  second  of  time — in  one  beat  of  the  pendulum 
of  a  clock — light  travels  over  192,000  miles.  Were  a  cannon 
ball  shot  toward  the  sun,  and  it  were  to  maintain  full  speed,  it 
would  be  twenty  years  in  reaching  it — and  yet  light  travels 
through  this  space  in  seven  or  eight  minutes. 


SIGNS  OF  THE  WEATHER. 

4272.  Dew. — If  the  dew  lies  plentifully  on  the  grass  after  a 
fair  day,  it  is  a  sign  of  another.  If  not,  and  there  is  no  wind, 
rain  must  follow. 

4218.  A  red  evening  portends  fine  weather;  but  if  it 
spreads  too  far  upward  from  the  horizon  in  the  evening,  and 
especially  in  the  morning,  it  foretells  wind  or  rain,  or  both. 


4274.  When  the  sky,  in  rainy  weather,  is  tinged  with  sea- 
green,  the  rain  will  increase ;  if  with  deep  blue,  it  will  be 
showery. 


SIGNS   OF   THE  WEATHER.  6 75 

42Y5.    Clouds. — Against  much  rain,  the  clouds  grow  bigger, 
and  increase  very  fast,  especially  before  thunder. 


4216.  When  the  clouds  are  formed  like  fleeces,  but  dense 
in  the  middle  and  bright  tov/ard  the  edges,  with  the  sky 
bright,  they  are  signs  of  a  frost,  with  hail,  snow,  or  rain. 

•« 

4277.  If  clouds  form  high  in  the  air,  in  thin  white  trains 
like  locks  of  wool,  they  portend  wind,  and  probably  rain. 


4278.  When  a  general  cloudiness  covers  tW^sky,  and  small 
black  fragments  of  clouds  fly  underneath,  they  are  a  sure  sign 
of  rain,  and  probably  it  will  be  lasting.  Two  currents  of 
clouds  always  portend  rain,  and,  in  summer,  thunder. 


4279.  Heavenly  Bodies. — A  haziness  in  the  air,  which  fades 
the  sun\s  light,  and  makes  the  orb  appear  whitish,  or  ill-defined 
— or  at  night,  if  the  moon  and  stars  grow  dim,  and  a  ring 
encircles  the  former,  rain  will  follow. 


4280.  If  the  sun's  rays  appear  like  Moses'  horns — if  white 
at  setting,  or  shorn  of  his  rays,  or  goes  down  into  a  bank  of 
clouds  in  the  horizon,  bad  weather  is  to  be  expected. 


4281.  If  the  moon  looks  pale  and  dim  we  expect  rain;  if 
red,  wind ;  and  if  of  her  natural  color,  with  a  clear  sky,  fair 
weather.  If  the  moon  is  rainy  throughout,  it  will  be  clear  at 
the  change,  and  perhaps  the  rain  return  a  few  days  after.  If 
fair  throughout,  and  rain  at  the  change,  the  fair  weather  will 
probably  return  on  the  fourth  or  fifth  day. 

4282.  The  Weather  and  the  Blood. — In  dry,  sultry  weather 
the  heat  ought  to  be  counteracted  by  means  of  a  cooling  diet. 
To  this  purpose,  cucumbers,  melons,  and  juicy  fruit  are  sub- 
servient.   

4283.  We  ought  to  give  the  preference  to  such  alimentary 
substances  as  lead  to  contract  the  juices  which  are  too  much 
expanded  by  the  heat,  and  the  property  is  possessed  by  all 
acid  food  and  drink.  

4284.  To   this    class   belong   all    sorts    of    salad,    lemons, 


6*76  MRS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

oranges,  pomegranates  sliced  and  sprinkled  with  sugar,  for  th9 
acid  of  this  fruit  is  not  so  apt  to  derange  the  stomach  as  that 
of  lemons ;  also  cherries  and  strawberries,  curds  turned  with 
lemon  acid  or  cream  of  tartar ;  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  ia 
water — lemonade  and  Rhenish  or  Moselle  wine  mixed  with 
water. 


AIR— ITS  EFFECTS  ON  LIFE. 

4285.  WhatiK  carbonic  acid  gas  ? 


4286.  A  gas  formed  by  the  union  of  carbon  and  oxygen. 
It  used  to  be   called  ''  fixed  air." 


4287.  Under  what  circumstances  does  carbon  most  readily 
unite  with  oxygen. 

4288.  1.  IVhen  its  temperature  is  raised :  thus,  if  carbon 
be  red-hot,  .oxygen  will  most  readily  unite  with  it;  and  2. 
When  it  forms  part  of  the  fluid  blood. 

4289.  Why  do  oxygen  and  carbon  so  readily  unite  in  the 
blood?  

4290.  Because  the  atoms  of  carbon  are  so  loosely  attracted 
by  the  other  materials  of  the  blood,  that  they  unite  very 
readily  with  the-  oxygen  of  the  air  inhaled. 


4291.  Is  carbonic  acid  wholesome  ? 


4292.  No  :  it  is  fatal  to  animal  life  :  and  (whenever  it  is  in- 
haled) acts  like  a  narcotic  poison — producing  drowsiness, 
w^hich  sometimes  ends  in  death. 


4293.  How  can  any  one  know  if  a  place  be  infested  with 
carbonic  acid  gas  ?  

4294.  If  a  pit  or  well  contain  carbonic  acid,  a  candle  (let 
down  into  it)  will  be  instantly  extinguished.  The  rule,  there- 
fore, is  this — AVhere  a  candle  will  burn,  a  man  can  live ;  but 
what  will  extinguish  a  candle,  will  also  destroy  life. 


AIR.  617 

4295.  Why  does  a  miner  lower  a  candle  into  a  mine  before 
he  descends  ?  

4296.  Because  the  candle  will  be  extinguished,  if  the  mine 
contains  carbonic  acid  gas ;  but  if  the  candle  is  not  extin- 
guished, the  mine  is  safe,  and  the  man  may  fearlessly  descend. 


4291.  Why  doee  a  crowded  room  produce  headache  ? 


4298.  Because  we  breathe  the  air  vitiated  by  the  crowd. 

4299.  Why  is  the  air  of  a  room  vitiated  by  a  crowd  ? 


4300.  Because  it  is  deprived  of  its  due  proportion  of  oxy- 
gen, and  laden  with  carbonic  acid. 


4301.  How  is  the  air  of  a  room  affected  thus  by  a  crowd  ? 


4302.  The  elements  of  the  air  (inhaled  by  the  breath)  are 
separated  in  the  lungs  ; — the  oxygen  is  converted  in  the  blood 
into  carbonic  acid ;  and  the  carbonic  acid  (together  with  the 
nitrogen)  is  then  thrown  off  by  the  breath  into  the  room. 


4303.  Why  is  country  air  more  pure  than  the  air  in  cities  ? 


4304.  1.  Because  there  are  fewer  inhabitants  to  vitiate  the 
air :  2.  There  are  more  trees  to  restore*  the  equilibrium  of  the 
vitiated  air :  and  3.  The  free  circulation  of  air  keeps  it  pure 
and  wholesome  ;  in  the  same  way  as  running  streams  are  pure 
and  wholesome,  while  stagnant  waters  are  the  contrary. 


4305.  Why  does  the  scantiness   of  a  country  population 
render  the  country  air  more  pure  ? 


4306.  Because  the  fewer  the  inhabitants  the  less  carbonic 
acid  will  be  exhaled ;  and  thus  country  people  inhale  pure 
oxygen,  instead  of  air  impregnated  with  the  narcotic  poison, 
called  carbonic  acid  gas. 


430T.  Why  do  trees  and  flowers  help  to  make  country  air 
wholesome  ? 


678  MRS.  hale's  receipts  for  the  million. 

4308.  1.  Because  trees  and  flowers  absorb  the  carbonic 
acid  generated  by  the  lungs  of  animals,  putrid  substances,  and 
other  noxious  exhalations  :  and  2.  Trees  and  flowers  restore 
to  the  air  the  oxygen  which  has  been  inhaled  by  man  and 
other  animals.  

4309.  Why  is  the  air  of  cities  less  wholesome  than  the 
country  air  ?  

4310.  1.  Because  there  are  more  inhabitants  to  vitiate  the 
air :  2.  The  sewers,  drains,  bins,  and  filth  of  a  city,  very 
greatly  vitiate  the  air :  3.  The  streets  and  alleys  prevent  a 
free  circulation  :  and  4.  Besides  all  this,  there  are  fewer  trees 
to  absorb  the  excess  of  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  restore  the 
equilibrium.  

4311.  Why  are  persons  who  live  in  close  rooms  and  crowded 
cities  generally  sickly  ? 


4312.  Because  the  air  they  breathe  is  not  pure,  but  is  (in 
the  first  place)  defective  in  oxygen :  and  (in  the  second)  im- 
pregnated with  carbonic  acid  gas. 

4313.  Where  does  the  carbonic  acid  of  close  rooms  and 
cities  come  from  ?  

4314.  From  the  lungs  of  the  inhabitants,  the  sewers,  drains, 
and  other  like  places,  in  which  organic  substances  are  under- 
going decomposition.  

4315.  What  becomes  of  the  carbonic  acid  of  crowded 
cities  ? 

4316.  Some  of  it  is  absorbed  by  vegetables ;  and  the  rest 
is  blown  away  by  the  wind,  and  diffused  through  the  whole 
volume  of  the  air.  

4317.  Does  not  this  constant  diffoeion  of  carbonic  acid 
affect  the  purity  of  the  whole  air  ? 


4318.  No  ;  because  it  is  wafted  by  the  wind  from  place  to 
place,  and  absorbed  in  its  passage  by  the  vegetable  world. 


PRUNING   VINES. — ^FIGURES.  6lf9 

4319.  What  is  choke  damp? 


4320.   Carbonic  acid  gas  accumulated  at  the  bottom  of  wells 
and  pits,  which  renders  them  noxious,  and  often  fatal  to  life- 


4321.  Offensive  Cessjjools. — Sulphate  oi  zinc  can  be  pur- 
chased of  any  druggist,  in  the  form  of  a  salt,  and  a  pound  of 
it  dissolved  in  two  pails  of  warm  water  and  thrown  into  an 
offensive  cesspool,  will  soon  deodorize  it. 


4322.  Directions  for  Pruning  Vines. — In  pruning  always 
cut  upward,  and  in  a  sloping  direction. 


4323.  Always  leave  an  inch  of  blank  wood  beyond  a 
terminal  bud,  and  let  the  cut  be  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
bud.  

4324.  Prune  so  as  to  leave  as  few  wounds  as  possible,  and 
let  the  surface  of  every  cut  be  perfectly  smooth. 


4325.  In  cutting  out  an  old  branch,  prune  it  even  with  the 
parent  limb,  that  the  wound  may  heal  quickly. 


4326.  Prune  so  as  to  obtain  the  quantity  of  fruit  desired  on 
the  smallest  number  of  shoots  possible. 


432 1.  Never  prune  in  frosty  weather,  nor  when  a  frost  is 
expected.  

4328.  Never  prune  in  the  months  of  March,  April,  or  May ; 
pruning  in  either  of  these  months  causes  bleeding,  and  occa- 
sions thereby  a  wasteful  and  injurious  expenditure  of  sap. 


4329.  Let  the  general  autumnal  pruning  take  place  as  soon 
after  the  1st  of  October  as  the  gathering  of  the  fruit  will  per- 
mit. Lastly.  Use  a  pruning-knife  of  the  best  description, 
and  let  it  be,  if  possible,  as  sharp  as  a  razor. 


4330.    Curious  Properties  of  some  Figures, — To  multiply 
by  2  is  the  same  as  to  multiply  by  10  and  divide  by  5. 

4831.  Any  number  of  figures  you  may  wish  to  multiply  by 


680  '   MRS,  hale's  rkceifts  for  the  million. 

5,  will  give  the  same  result  if  divided  hj  2— a  much  quicker 
operation  than  the  former ;  but  you  must  remember  to  annex 
a  cipher  to  the  answer  where  there  is  no  remainder,  and  where 
there  is  a  remainder  annex  a  5  to  the  answer. 


4332.  Thus,  multiply  464  by  5,  the  answer  will  be  2320  ; 
divide  the  same  number  by  2,  and  you  have  232,  and  as  there 
is  no  remainder  you  add  a  cipher.  Now,  take  35*7,  and 
multiply  by  5 — the  answer  is  1785.  On  dividing  357  by  2, 
there  is  178,  and  a  remainder ;  you  therefore  place  5  at  the 
right  of  the  line,  and  the  result  is  again  1785. 


4333.  There  is  something  more  curious  in  the  properties  of 
the  number  9.  Any  number  multiplied  by  9  produces  a  sum 
of  figures  which,  added  together,  continually  makes  9.  For 
example,  all  the,  first  multiples  of  9,  as  18,  27,  36,  45,  54,  63, 
72,  81,  sum  up  9  each.  Each  of  them  multiplied  by  any 
number  whatever  produces  a  similar  result ;  as  8  times  81  are 
648,  these  added  together  make  18,  1  and  8  are  9.  Multiply 
648  by  itself,  the  product  is  419,904 — the  sum  of  these  digits 
is  27,  2  and  7  are  9.     The  rule  is  invariable. 


4334.  Take  any  number  whatever  and  multiply  it  by  9  ;  or 
any  multiple  of  9,  and  the  sum  will  consist  of  figures  which, 
added  together,  continually  number  9.  As  17  X  19  =  306,  6 
and  3  are  9;  117  X  27  =  3159,  the  figures  sum  up  18,  8  and 
1  are  9 ;  4591  X  72  =  330,552,  the  figures  sum  up  18,  8  and  1 
are  9.  Again,  87,363  X  54  =  4,717,422  ;  added  together,  the 
product  is  27,  or  2  and  7  are  9,  and  so  always. 


4335.    Technical  terms  relative  to  Books,  Engravings,  etc : 


4336.  Books  are  distinguished  according  to  the  number  of 
pages  in  a  sheet  of  the  paper  on  which  they  are  printed  ;  as, 
two  leaves,  four  pages,  folio  ;  four  leaves)  eight  pages,  quarto, 
or  Uo.;  eight  leaves,  sixteen  pages,  octavo,  or  8fo.;  twelve 
leaves,  twenty-four  pages,  twelves,  duodecimo,  or  Vlmo.;  six- 
teen leaves,  thirty-two  pages,  sixteens,  or  16mo.;  eighteen 
leaves,  thirty-six  pages,  octodecimo,  eighteens,  or  18mo. 


4337.  The  size  of  a    book  is  determined   by  the  size  or 


TECHIflCAL   TERMS.  ggl 

designation  of  a  sheet  of  the  paper  on  which  it  is  printed  ;  as 
foolscap  Uo.j  or  ^vo,;  post  Svo.;  demy  Svo.;  royal  Suo.  &c. 

4338.  The  letters  A,  B,  C,  D,  &c.,  and  the  letters  and 
figures,  A  2,  A  3,  A  4,  &c.,  at  the  bottoms  of  the  first,  third, 
fifth,  seventh,  &c.,  pages  of  printed  sheets,  are  marks  for  direct- 
ing the  printer,  bookseller,  and  bookbinder  in  collecting,  col- 
lating, folding  and  placing  the  sheet's  in  proper  order.  These 
marks  are  usually  termed  signatures. 


4339.  When  the  page  of  a  book  is  divided  into  two  or  more 
parts  by  a  line  or  lines,  or  blank  spaces,  running  from  the  top 
to  the  bottom,  each  division  is  called  a  column.  This  work 
is  printed  in  columns.  

4340.  Vignette  is  a  French  term,  designating  the  ornamen- 
tal engraving,  without  a  border,  which  is  sometimes  placed  in 
the  title-page  of  a  book,  at  the  head  or  termination  of  a  chap- 
ter, &c.  

4341.  Xylography  is  the  art  of  engraving  upon  wood  ; 
etching^  mezzotinto,  aquatinta,  are  varieties  of  the  art  of  engrav- 
ing upon  copper.  Until  within  these  few  years,  copper  and 
wood  were  the  substances  employed  by  engravers  for  book 
illustrations.  For  certain  purposes,  wood  (box-wood)  con- 
tinues in  the  highest  repute  :  but  copper  has  been  in  a  great 
measure  superseded  by  steel,  where  a  large  number  of  impres- 
sions is  required.  

4342.  Electrography  is  a  newly-discovered  electrical  pro- 
cess, by  which  one  copper  plate  may  be  expeditiously  pro- 
duced, mfac  simile  from  another. 


4343.  Glyphography  is  a  somewhat  similar  process,  by 
which,  through  the  action  of  the  voltaic  hattery^  plates  may  be 
obtained  from  drawings,  affording  impressions  ad  libitum, 

4344.  Lithography  is  the  art  of  taking  impressions  from 
drawings  or  writings  made  on  prepared  and  highly-polished 
calcareous  stone.  

4345.  Zincography  is  an  adaptation  of  the  same  principle 


682  MRS.    HALE  S    RECEIPTS     FOR    THE    MILLION 

to  plates  of  zinc.     All  these  processes  are  now  extensively 
employed  in  the  illustrations  of  books  for  various  purooses. 


LAWS— IMPORTANCE    OF   LAWS. 

4346.  Every  citizen  should  earnestly  and  constantly  bear  in 
mind  the  important  fact,  that  his  only  safety  for  person,  pro- 
perty, liberty  and  life,  is  in  the  absolute  supremacy  of  the  con- 
stitution and  the  laws.  

434T.  Betting  on  Elections. — This  is  an  extensive  and  per- 
nicious evil,  alike  injurious  to  the  citizen  and  to  the  purity  of  ' 
elections.  All  are  interested  in  its  suppression  ;  let  all  then 
unite  in  getting  up  and  presenting  petitions  to  the  several 
State  legislatures  for  the  passage  of  a  law  similar  to  that  intro- 
duced into  the  Legislature  of  Missouri  against  betters  and 
stakeholders,  and  fining  both  to  the  amount  of  money  or  pro- 
perty bet.  Also  punishing  by  fine  any  person  who  may  pub- 
lish a  bet,  or  assist  in  any  way  in  making  it. 

4348.  A  decision  in  Ohio  makes  proprietors  of  stages 
responsible  for  passengers'  baggage,  notwithstanding  their 
caution  of  *'  All  baggage  at  the  risk  of  the  owners." 


4349.  A  Non-resident — A  person  having  a  place  of  busi- 
ness in  a  city  or  town,  and  boarding  and  lodging  in  another, 
is  a  non-resident  in  his  place  of  business. 


4350.  Titles   of   land  derived  under   sales   for   taxes   are 
declared  good  by  Supreme  Court  of  Illinois. 


4351.  A  salesman  receiving  a  per  centage  is  not  thereby 
constituted  a  partner. 

4352.  Breach  of  trust  is  where  valuables  are  received  in  the 
course  of  employment,  for  or  in  the  name  of  the  employer,  and 
embezzled  ;  but  if  the  valuables  have  come  to  the  possession 
of  the  employer,  the  offense  is  larceny. 


4353.  A  husband  is  liable  for  goods  furnished  his  wife,  if, 


LAWS — IMPORTANCE   OF.  683 

from  ill-treatment  or  other  siifficient  cause,  she  does  not  live 
with  him  ;  but  if  she  leave  him  from  unjustifiable  causes,  he  is 
not  liable  even  for  necessaries,  whether  the  tradesman  knows 
of  such  separation  or  not. 


4B54.  Erasing  or  altering  an  endorsement  on  a  note  is 
forgery.  

4355.  A  town  is  liable  for  damages  occasioned  by  any 
obstruction  placed  on  the  road  by  human  agency,  and  is  bound 
to  make  roads  safe  and  convenient  for  travelers. 


4356.  Common  Carriers. — The  owners  of  a  steamboat  are 
responsible  to  shippers  of  goods  as  common  carriers.  Com- 
mon carriers,  if  they  make  a  wrong  delivery,  are  responsible 
for  any  loss.  

435 1.  The  owners  of  goods  must  have  them  properly  marked, 
and  entered  in  carriers'  books  ;  and  if  he  neglects  to  do  it,  he 
must  bear  the  loss.  

4358.  An  account  current  rendered,  and  accepted  without 
objection  being  made  in  a  reasonable  time,  precludes  objection 
afterward,  and  makes  it  a  stated  account. 


4359.  A  will  dictated  and  taken  down  in  pencil  only,  and 
signed  by  two  witnesses,  is  valid,  if  deceased  was  in  sound 
mind  when  he  gave  the  instructions. 

4360.  Wills. — A  will  is  an  instrument  in  writing,  executed 
in  form  of  law,  by  which  a  person  makes  a  disposition  of  his 
property,  to  take  effect  after  his  death. 

4361.  A  codicil  is  a  supplement  or  addition  to  a  will,  and 
by  whicli  the  will  is  altered,  explained  or  added  to,  but  in  no 
case  wholly  revoked.  

4362.  A  bequest  to  a  subscribing  of  a  will  is  void. 

4363.  Let  every  man  about  to  make  a  will  endeavor  to 
make  it  as  concise  as  possible;  and  if  he  employs  a  lawyer, 
agree  to  pay  him,  not  by  the  length,  but  by  the  transaction. 


684  ^^^'    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

Let  him  keep  in  his  mind  that  every  trust  or  use  he  creates, 
also  creates  the  danger  of  a  lawsuit.  Every  will  should  he 
dated  on  the  day  it  is  executed. 


4364.  It  is  also  of  the  first  importance  that'  it  should  be 
prepared  without  blot  or  alteration ,  or  erasure^  for  it  is  an  in- 
strument that  may  not  come  into  operation  for  many  years — 
of  a  surety  not  until  the  party  best  capable  of  explaining  it, 
the  testator  himself,  is  removed  from  the  scene  of  evidence, 
and  possibly  not  until  both  the  writer  of  it,  and  the  witnesses, 
have  either  ceased  to  exist,  or  whose  locality  is  not  to  be 
traced. 

4365.  Homestead  Exemption. — It  has  been  truly,  as  well 
as  eloquently  said,  that  ^'  Women  are  the  Corinthian*  pillars 
that  adorn  and  support  society  ;  the  institutions  that  protect 
women  throw  a  shield  also  around  children  ;  and  where  women 
and  children  are  provided  for,  man  must  be  secure  in  his 
rights.''  

4366.  From  this  radical  law  of  society,  which  makes  the 
best  interests  of  humanity  dependent  on  the  integrity  and 
comfort  of  the  Homes  of  the  People,  arises  the  necessity  that 
legislation  should  protect  the  sacredness,  and  insure  the  safety 
of  the  places  where  women  and  children  dwell.  We  hope  that 
every  State  in  our  broad  land  will  take  heed  of  this  paramount 
duty. 

The  following  extracts  exhibit  the  various  qualifications 
of  ^the  Homestead  Exemption  Laws  now  in  force  in  the 
several  States  named  : — 


4367.  Maine. — A  lot  of  land,  a  dwelling-house,  and  out- 
buildings thereon,  or  so  much  thereof  as  shall  not  exceed 
$5000  in  value.  

4368.  Vermont. — The  homestead  of  every  housekeeper,  or 
head^of  a  family,  to  the  value  of  $500,  and  the  yearly  pro- 
ducts thereof.  

4369.  Massachusetts. — The  lot  and  buildings  thereon  occu- 
pied as  a  residence,  to  the  value  of  $5000. 


LAWS — IMPORTANCE   OF.  685 

43 YO.  Neio  York, — The  lot  and  buildings  tnereon  occupied 
as  a  residence,  to  the  value  of  $5000. 


4311.  Maryland. — All  real    estate  acquired    by  marriage 
durino;  the  life  of  a  wife,  from  execution  for  debt  of  husband. 


4312.  Georgia, — Twenty  acres  of  land,  including  dwelling 
and  improvements,  not  to  exceed  $200  ;  and  the  additional 
amount  of  five  acres  for  each  child  under  fifteen  years  of  age. 


43Y3.  Florida. — Forty  acres  of  land,  when  not  in  any  town 
or  city,  and  provided  such  does  not  exceed  in  value 


4314.  Alabama. — Forty  acres  of  land  to  every  farmer  ;  and 
to  every  housekeeper,  residing  in  a  town  or  city,  a  house  and 
lot  nofto  exceed  $3000  in  value. 


4315.    Texas. — Two  hundred  acres  of  land  (when  not  in  any 
town  lots),  not  to  exceed  $2000  in  value. 


4316.  Ohio. — Every  family  a  homestead  not  to  exceed  $500 
in  value.  

4311.  Michigan. — Forty  acres,  with  dwelling-house  and 
appurtenance,  when  not  in  town  or  city ;  if  in  town  or  city,  a 
lot  or  dwelling-house  not  to  exceed  in  Value  $1500. 


4318.  Illinois. — Lot  of  ground  and  building  occupied  as  a 
residence,  not  exceeding  in  value  $1000. 


4319.  Iowa. — Forty  acres  of  land,  not  in  town  or  city,  or 
a  town  or  city  lot  not  exceeding  in  amount  one-fourth  of  an 
acre.  

4380.  California. — The  homestead,  consisting  of  a  quan- 
tity of  land,  together  with  the  dwelling-house  thereon  and  its 
appurtenances,  and  not  exceeding  in  value  the  sum  of  $5000. 


4381.  New  Jersey. — A  homestead  to  each  head  of  a  family, 
being  the  family  residence,  to  the  value  of  $500  ;  not  to  be 
assets  in  the  hands  of  an  administrator,  but  to  remain  for  the 
benefit  of  the  widow,  and  until  tiie  maturity  of  tlie  minor  child. 


686  MKS.    HALES    RECEIPTS    FOR    THE    MILLION. 

4382.  South  Carolina. — A  homestead  of  fifty  acres  of  land, 
including  the  dwelling-house  and  appurtenances,  not  to  exceed 
$500  in  value,  and  to  extend  to  any  property  situated  within 
the  limits  of  any  city  or  town  corporate. 


4383.  Arkansas  has  an  homestead  exemption. 


4384.  Pennsylvania. — The  amount  of  $300,  in  real  or  per- 
sonal property.  

4385.  Other  States  may  have  exemption  laws,  but  I  have 
not  found  any  record.  

4836.  Naturalization  Laws. — Congress  alone  has  power  to 
make  or  regulate  the  laws  of  naturalization. 


4381.  An  alien  must  renounce,  in  court,  allegiance,  &c.,  to 
any  foreign  power,  and  declare  his  intention  of  becoming  a  citi- 
zen at  least  two  years  before  admission.  Must  swear  to  support 
the  Constitution,  renounce  any  hereditary  title  or  order  of 
nobility,  and  must  have  reside^  five  years  in  the  country,  and 
satisfy  the  court  that  he  has  behaved  as  a  man  of  good  moral 
character,  attached  to  the  principles  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  well  disposed  to  the  good  order  and  happi- 
ness of  the  same.  _^ 

4388.  Children  of  naturalized  citizens,  if  under  twenty-one 
years  of  age  at  the  time  of  their  parents'  naturalization,  shall, 
if  dwelling  in  the  United  States,  be  considered  as  citizens. 
An  alien,  having  declared  his  intention,  and  dying  before  he 
was  naturalized,  his  widow  and  children,  on  taking  the  oaths 
prescribed,  shall  be  entitled  to  all  the  rights  of  citizenship. 


4389.  Receipts. — A  receipt  is  not  conclusive  evidence  of 
payment,  but  it  throws  the  burden  of  proof  upon  him  who 
attempts  to  impeach  it. 


4390.  Receipts  may  be  either  in  full  of  all  demands,  for  a 
special  account,  in  part  payment  of  an  account,  or  for  a  special 
purpose. 


PHRENOLOGY.  68t 

4391.  The  arrangement  of  the  wording  of  a  receipt  is  not 
important,  if  the  object  and  time  be  distinctly  stated  in  it. 


4392.  A  general  receipt  "m  full  of  all  demands''  is  a  dis- 
charge of  all  debts  except  special  debts  under  seal. 


4393.  The  legality  of  signatures  in  pencil  has  ever  been 
questioned. 

4394.  Account  books,  notes  or  receipts,  written  in  pencil, 
would  not  be  respected  in  any  law  court. 


4395.  In  those  States  in  which  exemption  laws  are  enforced, 
the  drawer  of  a  promissory  note  may  expressly  waive  all  right 
of  benefit  from  those  laws.  Conditions  which  the  subscriber 
may  add  to  a  ''note  of  promise,"  if  accepted  by  the  receiver, 
holds  good  in  every  State,  unless  they  directly  contravene 
local  laws. 


PHRENOLOGY. 

4396.  The  word  is  derived  from  two  Greek  words,  signify- 
ing mind  and  doctrine  or  discourse. 


439t.  Phrenology  designates  that  system  of  mental  philo- 
sophy which  treats  of  the  special  manifestation  of  minds. 

4398.  Phrenology  teaches  that  the  faculties  of  the  mind 
have,  each  one,  its  special  organ  or  place  in  the  brain  ;  and 
that  these  organs,  in  their  aggregate,  constitute  the  brain. 
Therefore  the  brain  is  the  organ  of  the  mind. 


4399.  Powers  of  Mind. — These  are  manifested  by  the  size 
and  developments  of  the  brain — when  temperament,  health, 
and  opportunities  are  equal. 


4400.  The  size  of  each  organ  measures  the  power  of  the 
faculty  which  is  exercised  by  means  of  it. 


4401.  Each  organ   desires  its   own   active  gratification  iu 


688 


MRS.   HALE'S    RECEIPTS   FOR   THE    MILLION. 


proportion   to  its  development,  the    larger    controlling   the 

smaller. 

4402.  This  is  a  brief  outline  of  the  science  or  study.  The 
general  principles  are,  more  or  less,  interwoven  into  our  litera- 
ture, and  influence  our  systems  of  education  ;  therefore  the 
following  may  be  found  interesting  and  curious,  if  not  useful. 


4403.  Heads:— 


4404.  Faculties  of  the  Mind, 


4405.  Of  ilie  Feelings  or  Affective  Faculties^  usually  styled 
propensities.  

4406.  Alimentativeness — Gives  appetite  for  food.  It  has 
been  a  question  whether  this  organ  was  in  the  brain  or  the 
stomach,  therefore  it  is  not  numbered  on  the  head. 


•4401.     1.  Amaiiveness — Producessexual  love,  desire,  phy- 
sical love.  

4408.  2.  Philoprogenitiveness — Love    of    children     and 
young  beings.  

4409.  3.    Concentrativeness — Continues  the  mind  on  emo- 
tion or  ideas. 


4410.     4.  Adhesiveness — Friendship,    sociability,    attach- 
ment generally. 


PHRENOLOGY.  689 

4411.     5.   Combativeness — Courage,     opposition,    intrepi- 
dity, quarrelsomeness.  

4212.     6.  Destructiveness — Desire    to    destroy,    torment ; 
harshness,  cruelty.  

4413.  T.   Secretiveness—G oxxQ^dXm^wi,  prudence,  cunning, 
hypocrisy.  

4414.  8.    Acquisitiveness — Desire    to  acquire  property; 
avarice,  selfishness.  

4415.  9.   Gonstructiveness — Mechanical  genius,  desire  to 
build.  _^ 

SENTIMENTS — INFERIOR  AND   SUPERIOR. 

4416.  10.    Self-Esteem — Self-respect,    personal    dignity, 
pride,  haughtiness.  

441 Y.     11.  Approbativeness — Thirst    for  praise,  fame,  or 
glory ;  ambition,  vanity. 

4418.  12.   Cautiousness — Circumspection,   timidity,  fear, 
despondency.  

4419.  13.  Benevolence — Universal   charity,   mildness   of 
disposition.  

4420.  14.   Veneration — Reverence,  superstitious  adoration, 
bigotry.  ^ 

V 

4421.  15.  Firmness — Determination,  perseverance,  obsti- 
nacy, resolution.  

4422.  IG.   Conscientiousness — Love  of  truth,  sense  of  jus- 
tice, duty.  

4423.  IT.  Hope — Expects  future  good ;    cherishes  faith, 
love  of  scheming. 

4424.  18.    Wonder — Desire  of  novelty,  belief  in  the  super- 
natural. 

44 


690  MRS.  bale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

4425.  19.  Ideality — Love  of  the  beautiful,  or  excellent, 

poetic  feeling.  

4426.  20.  MiHhfulness — Wit,  humor,   glee,   love  of  the 
ludicrous.  

4427.  21.  Imitation — Expression  in  arts,  or  action ;  mi- 
micry. 


INTELLECT,    OR   KNOWING   AND   REFLECTING   FACULTIES. 

4428.     22.  Individuality — Observes  existences,  simple  facts. 


4429.  23.  Form — Observes  configuration  and  the  shape 
of  bodies  generally.  

4430.  24.   Size — Gives  the  idea  of  space,  distance,  dimen- 
sion.   

4431.  25.    Weight — Perceives  momentum,  resistance,  equi- 
librium.   

4432.  26.   Coloring — Gives  perception  of  colors,  and  their 
harmonies.  

4433.  27.  Locality— Gi;\NQs  the  idea  of  relative  position, 
place.  

4434.  28.  Number — Talent  for  calculation,  quickness  in 
figures.  

4435.  29.   Order — Communicates   the    love   of    physical 
arrangement.  

4436.  80.  Eventuality — Observes  and  remembers  occur- 
rences and  events.  

4437.  31.    Time — Perceives  duration  in  nature,  time  in 
music. 

4438.  32.    Tune — Sense  of  musical  harmony,  melody. 


PHRENOLOGY — TEMPERAMENTS.  691 

4439.     33.  Language — Verbal  memory,  fluency  in  speech 


4440.  34.  Comparison — Discovers  analogies  and  differ- 
ences.   

4441.  35.  Causality — Traces  the  relation  of  cause  and 
effect.  

4442.  Memory  is  merely  a  degree  of  activity  of  the  knowing 
and  reflecting  organs,  each  organ  enabling  the  mind  to  recall 
the  impressions  which  it  served  at  first  to  receive. 


4443.  Judgment  is  the  decision  of  34  and  35  upon  feelings 
and  ideas  furnished  by  the  other  faculties. 


4444.  The  faculties,  in  themselves,  are  instructive  ;  the 
moral  sentiments  and  intellect  being  higher  than  the  animal 
propensities..  

4445.  Temp^rame/iis.— These  are  four  in  number,  viz : — 
The  Nervous,  the  Bilious,  the  Sanguine,  and  the  Lymphatic. 

4446.  The  Nervous  temperament  is  known  by  the  person 
having  fine,  tliin  hair,  usually  brov/n  ;  thin,  pale  or  fair  skin; 
gray  or  dark  blue  eyes  ;  small  muscles.     Very  active. 


444T.  The  Bilious  temperament  has  black  hair  and  eyes, 
dark  or  swarthy  skin,  firm  muscles,  strong  features,  and  great 
energy  of  will.  

4448.  The  Sanguine  temperament  is  fair  and  florid  ;  happy, 
healthy  countenance;  handsome  in  youth,  and  hopeful  in 
spirit  always.  ^ 

4449.  The  Lymphatic  temperament  has  soft  fat  muscles; 
pale  or  bloodless  complexion  ;  slow  and  languid  in  action, 
and  usually  dull  or  very  easy  in  mind. 


692  -  MRS.  hale's   receipts  for  the  million. 


SYNOPSIS   OF  AMERICAN   HISTORY. 

4450.  Showing  the  year  in  which  each  State  was  settled,  by 
what  people,  the  number  of  square  miles,  and  the  capital  of 
each  State,  etc.  

4451.  lfafr?e.— Settled  1630,  by  English;  36,000  square 
miles;  capital,  Augusta  ;  admitted  into  the  TJnion  1820. 


4452.  New  Hampshire.— Settled  1623,  by  English  ;  9,500 
square  miles  ;  capital,  Concord  ;  one  of  the  *'  Old  Thirteen. '^ 


4453.  Massachusetts.— Settled    1620,   by   English;    Y,500 
square  miles  ;  capital,  Boston  ;  one  of  the  ''Old  Thirteen." 

4454.  Vermont. — Settled  1T49,. by  English  ;  square  miles, 
10,200;  capital,  Montpelier  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1^91. 


4455.  Bhode  Island.— Settled  1636,  by  English;  1350 
square  miles  ;  capital.  Providence  and  Newport ;  one  of  the 
''Old  Thirteen."  

4456.  Connecticut. — Settled  1633, by  English  ;  4,'760square 
miles;  capital,  Hartford  and  New  Haven;  one  of  the  "Old 
Thirteen.''  

445T.  New  York. — Settled  1614,  by  Dutch;  square  miles, 
46,000  ;  capital,  Albany  ;  one  of  the  "  Old  Thirteen." 


4458.  New  Jersey. — Settled  1624,  by  Dutch  and  Danes; 
square  miles,  8,300;  capital,  Trenton;  one  of  the  "Old 
Thirteen." 


4459.  Pennsylvania. — Settled  1682,  by  English;  .square 
miles,  44,000;  capital,  Harrisburg ;  one  of  the  "  Old  Thir- 
teen."   

4460.  Delaware. — Settled  162T,  by  Swedes  and  Finns; 
square  miles^  2100  ;  capital,  Dover  ;  one  of  the  "  Old  Thir 
teen." 


SYNOPSIS   OF   AMERICAN    HISTORY.  693 

4461.  Maryland. — Settled  1634,  by  English;  square  miles, 
14,000;  capital,  Annapolis;  one  of  the  "Old  Thirteen." 


4462.    Virginia. — Settled  160*7,  by  English ;  square  miles, 
64,000;  capital,  Richmond  ;  one  of  the  "'Old  Thirteen." 


4463.  North  Carolina. — Settled  1650,  by  English  ;  square 
miles,  48,000;  capital,  Raleigh;  one  of  the  "Old  Thir- 
teen."   

4464.  South  Carolina. — Settled  1689,  by  English  ;  square 
miles,  24,000  ;  capital,  Columbus  ;  one  of  the  "  Old  Thir- 
teen." ___ 

4465.  Georgia. — Settled  1733,  by  English  ;  square  miles, 
60,000;  capital,  Milledgeville  ;  one  of  the  ''Old  Thirteen." 


4466.  Florida. — For  near  two  hundred  years  under  Spain, 
was  ceded  to  the  United  States  in  1819,  and  the  East  and 
West  formed  one  territory  in  1822  ;  St.  Augustine  is  the 
oldest  town  in  the  United  States ;  Tallahasse  is  the  capital ; 
Pensacola,  U.  S.  naval  station.  Admitted  into  the  Unioa 
1845.  

4467.  Ohio. — Settled  1188,  by  English;  square  miles, 
39,000  ;  capital,  Columbus  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1802. 


4468.  Indiana. — Settled  1130,  by  French;  square  miles?, 
86,000  ;  capital,  Indianapolis  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1816. 


4469.  Illinois. — Settled   1149,   by  French;    square  miles, 
52,000  ;  capital,  Springfield  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1818. 


4410.  Missouri. — Settled  1163,  by  French  ;  square  miles, 
60,000  ;  capital,  Jefferson  city  ;  admitted  into  the  Union 
1821.  

4411.  Michigan. — Settled  1610,  by  French  ;  square  miles, 
65,000  ;  capital,  Lansing  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1836. 


4412.  Iowa. — Settled  by  emigrants  from  other  of  the  United 


694  MRS.  bale's   receipts   for  the  million. 

States  and  Germans  ;  square  miles,   150,000 ;    capital,  Iowa 
city  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1846. 


44Y3.  Wisconsin.— -Sealed  by  emigrants  chiefly  from  New 
England  and  Europe;  square  miles,  80,000;  capital,  Madi- 
son ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1848. 


44T4.  Alabama. — Settled  1713,  by  French  ;  square  miles, 
44,000  ;  capital,  Montgomery  ;  admitted  into  the  Union 
1819.         •  

4415.  Mississippi. — Settled  ltl6,  by  French  ;  square 
miles,  45,000;  capital,  Jackson;  admitted  into  the  Union 
1817.  ^ 

44T1B.  Louisiana. — Settled  1699,  by  French  ;  square  miles, 
48,000  ;  capital.  Baton  Rouge ;  admitted  into  the  Union 
1811.  

4478.  Texas. — Settled  1692,  by  Spanish;  square  miles, 
240,000;  Settled  by  Americans  1821;  capital,  Austin;  ad- 
mitted into  the  Union  1845. 


4479.  Arkansas. — Settled  by  French  from  Louisiana,  and 
formed  part  of  Missouri  in  1819  ;  square  miles,  57,000  ;  capi- 
tal. Little  Rock;  admitted  into  the  Union  1836. 


4480.   Tennessee. -Sealed  1765,  by  English;  square  miles, 
40,000  ;  capital,  Nashville  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1796. 


4481.  Kentucky. — Settled  by  Yirginians ;  square  miles, 
42,000  ;   capital,  Frankfort ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1792. 

4482.  California. — Settled  1769,  by  Spaniards;  ceded  to 
the  United  States  by  Mexico,  1848  ;  square  miles,  188,000  ; 
capital,  Sacramento  ;  admitted  into  the  Union  1850. 


4483.    Territories  of  the  United  States, 


4484.   Oregon  Territory. — Beyond  the  Rocky  Mountains  ; 
settled  by  emigrants  from  the  States;  will  soon  be  admitted 


WORDS    OF   WASHINGTON.  695 

into  the  UDion ;  capital,  Oregon   city  ;    square   miles   over 
300,000.  

4485.  Minnesota  Territory. — Settled  by  emigrants  from 
the  older  States  ;  capital,  St.  Paul ;  will  soon  be  admitted 
into  the  Union.  

4486.  Utah  Territory. — Settled  by  Mormons  ;  capital,  Salt 
Lake  city;  not  to  be  admitted  into  the  Union  with  its  present 
institutions.  

4481.  New  Mexico  Territory. — Settled  by  Spaniards  ;  ceded 
to  the  United  States  1849  ;  capital,  Santa  Fe ;  will  probably 
soon  be  admitted  into  the  Union. 


4488.  Washington  Territory. — Settled  by  English  ;  square 
miles,  257,000 ;  capital,  Puget^s  Sound  ;  very  few  American 
settlers.  

4489.  Kansas  Territory. — Settled  by  emigrants  chiefly 
from  Missouri  and  the  New  England  States  ;  capital,  Lecomp- 
ton  ;  will  soon  be  admitted  into  the  Union. 


4490.  Nebraska  Territory. — Settled  by  emigrants  from  the 
older  States  ;  capital,  Omaha  city. 


WORDS  OF  WASHINGTON. 

4491.  The  following  rules  were  found  among  the  early 
papers  of  this  great  hero,  patriot  and  statesman.  He  wrote 
them  when,  probably,  about  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  of  age. 


4492.  As  these  rules  were  a  guide  to  him,  evidently  shown 
in  his  life  and  character,  so  may  they  influence  the  conduct  of 
Young  America.  

4493.  Rules  of  civility  and  decent  behavior  in  company  and 
conversation,  written  by  George  Washington. 


4494.  Every  action  in  company  ought  to  be  with  some  siga 
of  respect  to  those  present. 


696  j^iES.  kale's   receipts  for  the  million. 

4495.  Be   no  flatterer;    neither   play  with   any   one  that 
delights  not  to  be  played  with. 


4496.  Read  no  letters,  books,  or  papers  in  company ;  but 
when  there  is  a  necessity  for  doing  it,  you  must  ask  leave. 
Come  not  near  the  books  or  writings  of  any  one  so  as  to  read 
them,  unless  desired,  nor  give  your  opinion  of  them  unasked; 
also  look  not  nigh  when  another  is  writing  a  letter. 


449Y.  Let  your  countenance  be  pleasant,   but  in   serious 
matters  somewhat  grave. 


4498.  Show  not  yourself  glad  at  the  misfortune  of  another, 
though  he  were  your  enemy. 


4499.  When  you  meet  with  one  of  greater  quality  than  your- 
self, stop  and  retire,  especially  if  it  be  at  a  door  or  any  strait 
place,  to  give  way  for  him  to  pass. 

4500.  They  that  are  in  dignity,  or  in  office,  have  in  all 
places  precedency ;  but  whilst  they  are  young  they  ought  to 
respect  those  that  are  their  equals  in  birth,  or  other  qualities, 
though  they  have  no  public  charge. 

4501.  It  is  good  manners  to  prefer  them  to  whom  we  speak 
before  ourselves,  especially  if  they  be  above  us,  with  whom  in 
no  sort  we  ought  to  begin. 


4502.  Let  your  discourse  with  men  of  business  be  short 
and  comprehensive.  

4503.  In  visiting  the  sick,  do  not  presently  play  the  physi- 
cian, if  you  be  not  knowing  therein. 

4504.  In  writing,  or  speaking,  give  to  every  person  his  due 
title,  according  to  his  degree  and  the  custom  of  the  place. 

4505.  Strive   not  with    your  superiors  in  argument,   but 
always  submit  your  judgment  to  others  with  modesty. 

4506.  Undertake  not  to  teach  your  equal  in  the  art  he  him- 
self professes  ;  it  savors  of  arrogance. 


WORDS   OP   WASHINGTON.  697 

4507.  When  a  man  does  all  he  can,  though  it  succeeds  not 
well,  blame  not  him  that  did  it. 


4508.  Being  to  advise  or  reprehend  any  one,  consider 
whether  it  ought  to  be  in  public  or  in  private  ;  presently  or  at 
some  other  time ;  in  what  terms  to  do  it ;  and  in  reproving 
show  no  signs  of  choler,  but  do  it  with  sweetness  and  mild- 
ness.   

450 9<  Take  all  admonitions  thankfully,  in  what  time  or 
place  soever  given ;  but  afterward,  not  being  culpable,  take  a 
time  or  place  convenient  to  let  him  know  it  that  gave  them. 

4510.  Mock  not,  nor  jest  at  any  thing  of  importance  ;  break 
no  jests  that  are  sharp-biting  ;  and  if  you  deliver  any  thing 
witty  and  pleasant,  abstain  from  laughing  thereat  yourself. 


4511.  Wherein  you  reprove  another,  be  unblamable  your- 
self; for  example  is  more  prevalent  than  precepts. 


4512.  Use  no  reproachful  language  against  any  one,  neither 
curse  nor  revile.  

4513.  Be  not  hasty  to  believe  flying  reports  to  the  dispar- 
agement of  any.  

4514.  In  your  apparel  be  modest,  and  endeavor  to  accom- 
modate nature  rather  than  to  procure  admiration  ;  keep  to  the 
fashion  of  your  equals,  such  as  are  civil  and  orderly  with 
respect  to  times  and  places. 


4515.  Avssociate  yourselves  with  men  of  good  quality,  if  you 
esteem  your  own  reputation,  for  it  is  better  to  be  alone  than 
in  bad  company.  

4516.  Be  not  immodest  in  urging  your  friend  to  discover  a 
secret.  

4517.  Utter  not  base  or  frivolous  things  amongst  grave 
and  learned  men  ;  nor  very  difficult  questions  or  subjects 
among  the  ignorant ;  nor  things  hard  to  be  believed. 


698  MRS.  bale's   receipts   for  the  million. 

4518.  Speak  not  of  doleful  things  in  time  of  mirth,  nor  at 
the  table;  speak  not  of  melancholy  things,  as  death,  and 
wounds  ;  and  if  others  mention  them,  change,  if  you  can,  the 
discourse.     Tell  not  your  dreams  but  to  your  intimate  friend. 

4519.  Break  not  a  jest  where  none  takes  pleasure  in  mirth  ; 
laugh  not  aloud,  nor  at  all  without  occasion.  Deride  no  man's 
misfortune,  though  there  seem  to  be  some  cause. 


4520.  Speak  not  injurious  words  neither  in  jest  nor  earnest ; 
scoff  at  none,  although  they  give  occasion. 


4521.  Be  not  forward,  but  friendly  and  courteous ;  the  first, 
to  salute,  hear,  and  answer ;  and  be  not  pensive  when  it  is  a 
time  to  converse.  

4522.  Detract  not  from  others,  neither  be  excessive  in  com- 
mending.   

4523.  If  two  contend  together,  take  not  the  part  of  either 
unconstrained,  and  be  not  obstinate  in  your  own  opinion  ;  in 
things  indifferent,  be  of  the  major  side. 


4524.  Think  before  you  speak  ;  pronounce  not  imperfectly, 
nor  bring  out  your  words,  too  hastily,  but  orderly  and  dis- 
tinctly.   

4525.  When  another  speaks,  be  attentive  yourself,  and  dis- 
turb not  the  audience.  If  any  hesitate  in  his  words,  help  him 
not,  nor  prompt  him  without  being  desired  ;  interrupt  him 
not,  nor  answer  him  till  his  speech  be  ended. 


4526.  Make  no  comparisons  ;  and  if  any  of  the  company 
be  commended  for  any  brave  act  of  virtue,  commend  not  an- 
other for  the  same.  

452t.  Be  not  apt  to  relate  news,  if  you  know  not  the  truth 
thereof.  In  discoursing  of  things  you  have  heard,  name  not 
your  author  always.     A  secret  discover  not. 


4528.  Undertake  not   what  you   cannot   perform,   but  be 
Qareful  to  keep  your  promise. 


USEFUL  FAMILY  TABLES.  699 

4529.  In  disputes  be  not  so  desirous  to  overcome  as  not  to 
give  liberty  to  each  one  to  deliver  his  opinion,  and  submit  to 
the  judgment  of  the  major  part,  especially  if  they  are  judges 
of  the  dispute.  

4530.  Speak  not  evil  of  the  absent,  for  it  is  unjust. 


4531.  Be  not  angry  at  table,  whatever  happens  ;  and  if  you 
have  reason  to  be  so,  show  it  not ;  put  on  a  cheerful  counte- 
nance, especially  if  there  be  strangers,  for  good  humor  makes 
one  dish  of  meat  a  feast. 


4532.  When  you  speak  of  God,  or  his  attributes,  let  it  be 
seriously  in  reverence.  Honor  and  obey  your  natural  parents, 
although  they  be  poor.         

4533.  Let  your  recreations  be  manful,  not  sinful. 


4534.  Labor  to  keep  alive  in  your  breast  that  little  spark 
of  celestial  fire  called  conscience. 


USEFUL  FAMILY  TABLES. 

WEIGHTS  AND   MEASURES. 


4535.  A — Measure 

of  Length. 

12     Inches         = 

3     Feet 

5i  Yards 
40     Poles           *' 

8     Furlongs     ** 
69gVMiles 

I  Foot, 

1  Yard, 

1  Rod,  or  Pole, 

1  Furlong, 

1  Mile, 

1  Degree  of  Great  Circle  of  Earth 

4536.  An  inch  is  the  smallest  lineal  measure  to  which  a 
name  is  given,  but  subdivisions  are  used  for  many  i)urposes. 
Among  mechanics  the  inch  is  commonly  divided  into  eighths. 
By  the  officers  of  the  revenue,  and  by  scientific  persons,  it  is 
divided  into  tenths,  hundredths,  <fec.  Formerly  it  was  made 
to  consist  of  twelve  parts  called  lines. 


TOO 


MRS.    bale's    receipts    FOR    THE    MILLION. 


45 St.  B. — Particular  Measures  of  Length. 

A  Nail         = 
Quarter    ** 
Yard 
Ell 
Hand 
Fathom    " 


Link         ''  1  In.  92  hdths. 

Chain       *'      100  Links 


2^  inches     ^ 

4  Nails         I  Used  for  measuring  Cloth  of 

4  Quarters  i     all  kinds. 

^5  Quarters  ^ 

4  Inches,  used  for  the  height  of  Horses. 

6  Feet,  used  in  measuring  depths. 

Used  in  Land  Measure  to 
facilitate  computation  of 
content,  10  sq.  chains  be- 
ing equal  to  an  acre. 


4538.  C 

—Pleasure  of  Surface. 

144 

Square  Inches         = 

1  Square  Foot 

9 

Square  Feet            '* 

1  Square  Yard 

301 

Square  Yards          " 

1  Perch,  or  Rod 

40 

Perches                     *' 

1  Rood 

4 

Roods                       *' 

1  Acre 

640 

Acres                        ** 

1  Square  Mile. 

4539.  D. — Measures  of  Solidity  and  Capacity. 

DIVISION   I. — SOLIDITY. 

1128  Cubic  Inches         =         1  Cubic  Foot 
27  Cubic  Feet  ''  1  Cubic  Yard. 


«> 

DIVISION   II. — 

CAPACITY. 

4  Gills 

1  Pint         = 

34f  cubic  inches  nearly. 

2  Pints        ' 

1  Quart      '' 

69i 

4  Quarts      ' 

1  Gallon     " 

27'7i 

2  Gallons    / 

1  Peck 

554J 

8  Gallons     ' 

1  Bushel     '' 

22181 

8  Bushels     ' 

'          1  Quarter  " 

10:^  cubic  feet  nearly. 

5  Quarters  * 

1  Load       '' 

5U 

4540.  The  four  last  denominations  are  used  for  dry  goods 
only.  For  liquids  several  denominations  have  been  heretofore 
adopted,  viz.: — for  Beer,  the  Firkin  of  9  gallons,  the  Kilder- 
kin, of  18,  the  Barrel,  of  36,  tlie  Hogshead,  of  54,  and  the 
Butt,  of  108  gallons.  These  will  probably  continue  to  be  used 
in  practice.  For  Wine  and  Spirits,  there  are  the  Anker, 
Runlet,  Tierce,  Hogshead,  Puncheon,  Pipe,  Butt,  and  Tun; 
but  these  may  be  considered  rather  as  the  names  of  the  casks 


USEFUL   FAMILY   TABLES. 


701 


in  which  such  commodities  are  imported,  than  as  expressing 
any  definite  number  of  gallons.  It  is  the  practice  to  gauge 
all  such  vessels,  and  to  charge  them  according  to  their  actual 
content. 


4541.  Flour  is  sold  nominally  by  measur-e,  but  actually  by. 
weight,  reckoned  at  Tibs.  Avoirdupois  to  a  gallon. 


4542.  E. — Measure  of  Avoirdupois  Weight 
2Y|-^  Grains        =         1  Dram  = 


2^H 
437i 


grains. 


16     Drams  '*  1  Ounce  ^ 

16     Ounces  ''         -1  Pound  (lb.)    ''      7000 

28  Pounds  ''  1  Quarter  (qr.) 

4  Quarters  "  1  Hundred-weight  (cwt.) 

20  Cwt.  ''  1  Ton. 

This  weight  is  used  in  almost  all  commercial  transaci^ions, 
and  in  the  common  dealino-s  of  life. 


A  Firkin  of  Butter 561b. 

Soap 64  '' 

ABarrel  of  Anchovies.. 30  " 


A  Barrel  of  Soap 256  lb. 

Raisins...ll2  ^^ 

A  fother  of  Lead 19J  cwt. 


4543.  P. — Measures  of  Pounds, 

The  following  table  of  the  number  of  pounds  of  various 
articles  to  a  bushel,  may  be  of  interest  to  some  of  our  farming 
friends. 


Wheat             60  lbs. 

is  1  bus. 

Clover  Seed     60  lb.  is  1  bus 

Shelled  Corn  46 

<(     « 

Timothy  seed  45       ''     '' 

Corn  in  cob     70 

it     ti 

Flaxseed         56       "     " 

Oats                35 

H         It 

Hemp  Seed      44       ''     '' 

Barley             48 

it       tt 

Buckwheat       42       "     " 

Potatoes         60 

tt       tt 

Blue  grass  seed  14       "     " 

Beans              60 

tt       tt 

Castor  Beans    46       "     " 

Bran               20 

tt       tt 

res  for 

4544.  G. — Measw 

m 

msekeepers,"^ 

Wheat  Flour, 

1  lb.             is         1  quart 

Indian  Meal, 

1  "     2  oz.   ''         1     *' 

*  By  the  above  method,  persons  not  having  scales  and  weights  at  hand, 
may  readily  measure  the  articles  wanted  to  form  any  receipt,  without  tho 
trouble  of  weighing.  Allowance  to  be  made  for  an  extraordinary  dryness  or 
moisture  of  the  articlo  weighed  or  measured. 


702 


MRS.    bale's   receipts   FOR   THE   MILLION. 


Butter,  when  soft,            1  " 

u 

1     '' 

Loaf  Sugar,  broken         1   '^ 

it 

1     " 

White  Sugar,  powdered  1   ''     1  oz. 

i( 

1     '' 

Best  Brown  Sugar,          1  ''     2  oz. 

It 

1     '' 

Eggs,                              10  eggs       1 

are 

1     lb. 

Flour,                               8    quarts 

li 

1  peck. 

Flour,                               4  pecks 

<< 

1  bus. 

4545.*                              LIQUIDS. 

16  large  table-spoonsful         are 

half 

a  pint 

8  large  table-spoonsful         are 

one 

gill. 

4  large  table-spoonsful         are 

half 

a  gill 

2  gills                                    are 

half 

a  pint 

2  pints                                   are 

one 

quart 

4  quarts                                 are 

one 

gallon 

A  common  sized  tumbler  holds 

half 

a  pint 

A  common-sized  wine-glass  holds 

half 

a  gill 

25  drops  are  equal  to 

one 

teaspoonful 

*  The  Nurse  will  find  this  manner  of  measuring  liquids  very  convenient ;  to 
the  housekeeper  it  will  be  of  importance.  A  similar  "Table  of  Weights  and 
Measures"  is  prefixed  to  the  ^'New  Cook  Book;"  and  to  that  work  of 
mine  the  patrons  of  this  "Receipt  Book"  are  referred  for  information  on  all 
matters  of  "  household  good,"  not  found,  or  not  fully  explained  in  this  trea- 
tise. The  two  volumes  are  intended  as  family  companions,  and  will,  I  trust, 
be  usually  found  together. 

S.  J.  H. 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


A. 

Aperients,  gingerbread, 
Aperient  pills,    . 

615 
.     618 

Abrasions  of  the  skin,  to  pre\ 

ent. 

93 

Apoplexy  and  fits. 

570 

Absorbents^. 

544 

Appetite,  loss  of. 

.     374 

Abstinence, 

127 

Appetite, 

553 

Accidents  in   open  carriages 

to 

Apples,  to  color, 

.     390 

avoid, 

, 

206 

Apples,  to  keep. 

354 

Accidents,  prevention  of, 

460 

Apples,  to  preserve. 

.     11)3 

Accomplishments, 

. 

385 

Apples  for  hogs,     . 

470 

Acids,     .... 

120 

Apple  fritters,     . 

.     331 

Acids,  to  restore  color  taken 

out 

Apple  trees. 

304 

by,      ...        . 

59 

Apple  water. 

.     242 

Acquaintances  after  marriage,  . 

518 

April,      .... 

183 

Agreeableness, 

500 

April  sh-owers. 

.     455 

Agric::Uur.e,  hints  about,     . 

265 

463 

Arras    and    polished    met 

a1,  to 

Agriculture,  important  fact. 

206 

keep  from  rust, 

.       24 

Air,  its  effects  on  life, 

676 

Arnica,  extract  of, 

115 

Air,  city. 

678 

Aromatic  vinegar. 

.     148 

Air,  country, 

677 

Arrow-root, 

239 

Air-bath, 

436 

Arrow-root  jelly, 

.     240 

Alabaster,  to  clean,    . 

31 

Arsenic, 

120 

Alabaster,   marble,  or  stone, 

to 

Arsenic,  to  detect, 

.     192,  619 

stain,       .... 

417 

Artichoke, 

476 

Alcohol, 

120 

Artificial  flowers. 

.     486 

Alder,  advantages  of. 

265 

Arts,  elegant  and  ingeniou 

s,           385 

Alkalescent  drinks, 

242 

Ash  color. 

.     3S6 

Alkalies,     .... 

120 

Asparagus, 

47& 

Alteratives,    . 

544 

Assafoetida, 

.     553 

Alum  Avater, 

389 

Asses,  to  color. 

890 

Alum  whey, 

247 

Asthma, 

.     385,  623 

Ammonia, 

120 

Asthma,  to  relieve. 

103 

Ammoniated  anodyne,  . 

550 

August, 

.     185 

Anagrams, 

730 

Authors,  advice  to. 

659 

Anemones,  to  paint, 

391 

Aviaries,     . 

.     614 

A ngdo- Japanese  work, 

166 

Animal  food, 

599 

B. 

Anodyne  and  discutient      . 

550 

Ant;(l(»!es  and  poisons. 

120 

Bacon  in  summer, 

.     4  70 

Ants,  to  destroy. 

85 

Baldness,  to  prevent. 

6  I  I 

Ant.<  and  wasps,  to  destroy, 

85 

Balls  and  evening  ])artics. 

.     5o:) 

Aperient  for  (hildren. 

100 

Balls,  to  make  brectdus. 

03 

(703) 


Balls    for    removing    spots,    to 

make, 

63 

Balsamics, 

.     545 

Baltimoro   oriole, 

643 

Bandages, 

.     563 

Bandages,  circular, 

564 

Bandages,  various, 

.     565 

Barnfloors,  to  make  durable,            315 

Bark,  dog-wood, 

.     243 

Bark,  wild  cherry, 

243 

Barley  water,     . 

.     245 

Bathe,  time  to,     . . 

539 

Bathing,  advantages  of. 

.     125 

Baths  and  bathing. 

124,  538 

Bathing  tubs, 

.     539 

Baths  for  children. 

540 

Baths,  tepid  and  cold. 

.     539 

Bath,  vapor,  at  home,    . 

250 

Batter,  French, 

.     332 

Batter  pudding. 

332 

Bay  color, 

.     386 

Beans,             .         .         . 

476 

Beans,  to  color, 

.     390 

Bed,  to  heat. 

439 

Bed  clothes,  hints  about 

,     .      17,  536 

Bed  furniture,  &c.,  to  wash,               51 

Bed-room  linen, 

.     155 

Bed-rooms,  scouring, 

10 

Bed-rooms,  to  clean. 

9 

Beds,  making,  &c.. 

254 

Bee  or  wasp,  sting  of, 

.     123 

Beech-tree  leaves, 

17 

Beef,  as  food, 

.     365 

Beef,  essence  of,     . 

377 

Beef,  roasting. 

.     600 

Beer, 

609 

Beer,  keeping. 

.     258 

Beer,  to  prevent  growing  flat,          350 

Beer,  to  recover  sour, 

.     351 

Beer,  table,  to  make. 

351 

Bees, 

.     467 

Bees,  to  manage. 

176 

Bees,  to  preserve. 

.     317 

Bees,  to  remove,    . 

316 

Beetles,  to  destroy,     , 

.     276 

Beets, 

476 

Beets,  &G.,  to  preserve  z 

ill  winter,  273 

Bella  don  a,      .    *     . 

120 

Beverages, 

.     608 

Beverages,  spring. 

611 

Bile,  remedy  for, 

.     625 

Bile  and  bilious  compla 

ints,             553 

Bilious  disorders, 

.     625 

Binding, 

154 

BirdiimC; 

.     644 

ALPHABETICAL    INDEX. 


Birds, 

Birds,  sick,^ 

Birds,  beasts,  &c.,  to  preserve, 

Birds,  shot,  to  preserve, 

Birds  in  water  colors, 

Birth  marks. 

Biscuit,  to  preserve. 

Biscuits,  cheap  ginger, 

Biscuits,  pic-nic, 

.Bite  of  venomous  animals,     . 

Biting  the  nails. 

Black,  to  color, 

Black  paper  for  patterns. 

Black  reviver 

Black  silk,  to  dip, 

Blackberries, 

Blacking,  celebrated  for  boots, 
&c.,     ..... 

Blacking,  good, 

Blacking,  liquid,    . 

Blacking  for  leather  seats. 

Blankets,         .         . 

Bleaching  liquid. 

Bleaching  straw. 

Bleeding  at  the  nose. 

Bleeding  from  a  cut,  to  stop. 

Blisters,  to  apply. 

Blisters,  management  of. 

Blond  lace. 

Blood,  taking, 

Blood,  the,  is  the  life, 

Blue,  light. 

Boards,  to  give  a  beautiful  ap- 
pearance to,         .         .         . 

Boards,  to  scour. 

Boards  or  stone,  to  extract  oil 
from,       .... 

Body  in  fiaraes, 

Boils,  to  cure,     . 

Bone  dust, 

Bone  or  ivory,  to  stain, 

Bonnets,  straw. 

Bonnets,  straw  and  cheap,  to  dye. 

Books  and  accounts. 

Books,  to  preserve,     . 

Books  or  prints,  to  clean. 

Books,  to  choose. 

Boots,     .         .     ■    . 

Boots  and  shoes. 

Boots  and  shoes,  to  clean,  ^    . 

Boots  and  shoes,  to  prevent  snow 
water,  &g., 

Boots,  water-proof,     . 

Boot  tops,  to  clean  brown, 

Borax,  uses  of, 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


T05 


Borecole,         ....  476 

Botanical  specimens,           .         .  408 

Bottles,  to  cleanse,         .        .  31 

Bottling, 340 

Bowel  complaints,           .         .  615 

Bowels,  pain  in,          .         .         »  224 

Braiding,        .         .         .         .  155 

Braudied  peaches,      .         .         .  320 

Brandy  and  salt,    .         .         .  617 

Brandy  cherries,         .         .         t  320 

Brass  and  copper,  to  clean,    .  26 

Brass  ornaments,  to  clean,          .  26 

Bread, .590 

Bread,  cheap,     ....  595 

Bread,  to  discover  if  adulterated,  356 

Bread,  to  keep,           .         ,         •  593 

Bread,  Indian,        .        .         .  592 

Bread,  pulled,     ....  594 

Bread,  rye  and  Indian,           ,  593 

Bread,  unfermented.            .         .  336 

Bread  crumbs,  white,     .         •  327 

Bread,  sippets  of,            .             •  326 

Bread-pans,  to  clean,          .         .  258 

Bread  poultice,  .  ,  .  Tl'd 
Breadths  of  light,  .  .  .393 
Breakfast,      .         .         .         .368 

Breakfast,  making,    .         .         .  253 

Breakfast,  cold  meats  at,        .  253 

Breakfast,  neatness  in,       .         .  252 

Breakfast-room,  work  in,  .  252 
BreiUh,  for  the,            .         .         .103 

Breath,  bad  from  onions,  .  146 
Breath,  bad,  remedy  for,    .         .119 

Breath,  offensive,             .         .  625 

Brewing,  cheap  method  of,         .  351 

Brewis,  ....  445 
Brittannia,   tins,  &c.,  polishing 

paste  for,    ....  27 

Brittannia,  to  clean,           .        .  27 

Brocoli,           ....  477 

Bronzed  chandeliers,  <fcc.,           .  4':j8 

Bruises  or  contusions,             .  115 

Bruises  and  inflammations,        .  571 

Bruise  or  sprain,  .  ,  233 
Brussels  sprouts,         .         .         .476 

Budding,        ....  480 

Buckwheat,  utility  of,        .        .  269 

Bugs,  to  destroy,            .        .  87 

Bugs, 620 

Bugs  and  worms,  to  destroy,  276 

Building,             ....  310 

Buildings,  to  color,         .         .  393 

Bulbous  roots,    ....  179 

Bullfinch,        ....  642 

Bunion,  inflamed,       .        .        .  618 
45 


Bunions,  to  cure,  .         .  97 

Burning,  to  protect  children  from,    52 


Burns,             .... 

109 

Burns  and  scalds,         .     109,  110,  616 

Burns,  to  cure,        .         .  '      . 

442 

Butter,         .         .         .         .28 

7,  357 

Butter,  hints  about, 

456 

Butter,  bad,        .... 

605 

Butter,  improved  method. 

288 

Butter,  to  cure  a  bad  tub  of. 

358 

Butter,  salt,  to  make  fresh,    . 

358 

Butter  or  milk,  to   remove   the 

taste  of  turnips  from, 

358 

Butter  as  diet,    .... 

367 

Butterflies  and  moths,    . 

482 

Butterfly's  wings,  to  take  impres- 

sions of,      .         .         . 

169 

C. 
Cabbage,             .... 

477 

Cabbage  water. 

•     258 

Cake,  common  black. 

590 

Cake,  composition, 

596 

Cake,  loaf. 

597 

Cake,  maize, 

596 

Cake,  sponge,     .... 

597 

Calcareous  deposits  in  boilers. 

620 

Calico  furniture,  to  clean. 

10 

Calico  furniture,  to  wash. 

51 

Calves,  to  rear,         •  . 

286 

Calves'  feet  jelly,  • 

376 

Camera  Lucida,  a  new. 

169 

Camphor  mixture, 

246 

Camphorated  ointment. 

549 

Canary  birds,           .         .         17 

5,  641 

Canary,  to  teach  to  sing, 

.     641 

Cancer,            .... 

617 

Candle,  to  make,  <fcc.. 

35 

Candle,  blowing  out  a. 

34 

Candle  snufis,  use  of. 

32 

Candles,          .... 

43'> 

Candles,  economy  in. 

.     622 

Candles,  plain  hints  about. 

34 

Candles  and  lamps. 

215 

Candles  and  lamps,  spirting. 

450 

Candlesticks,  cleansing, 

.     262 

Cane-chairs,  <fcc.,  to  clean,         2 

2,  439 

Canker,  or  sore  mouth. 

.     232 

Canker-worm, 

4S4 

Carbonic  acid  gas. 

.     676 

Carbuncles,     .... 

618 

Cardinal  Grosbeak,     . 

.     642 

Cardoon,         .... 

477 

Carefulness, 

.     211 

706 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Carminatives, 

545 

Champagne,  summer. 

.     611 

Carnations,  laying,     . 

293 

Change  of  apparel. 

457 

Carpets,  brown,  green,  and  red. 

449 

Charade,     .... 

.     658 

Carpets,  economy  in, 

449 

Charcoal,        .... 

121 

Carpets,  to  beat,     . 

11 

Charcoal,  to  prevent  ill  efifectJ 

,  .       41 

Carpets,  to  clean. 

.       10 

Charcoal,  hints  about. 

460 

Carpets,  Turkey,  to  clean, 

11 

Charcoal  fumes. 

.     437 

Carpets,  to  sweep. 

447 

Charcoal  powder. 

445 

Carpets,  to  wash. 

362 

Charlotte  Russe, 

.     331 

Carriage,  to  clean. 

.       44 

Cheap  carpeting. 

11 

Carriers,  common,  laws  for,   . 

683 

Cheerfulness, 

.     212 

Carrots,      .... 

447 

Cheese,  coloring  for. 

359 

Carrots,  <fec.,  to  keep,     . 

273 

Cheese  curd. 

.     329 

Carrots,  utility  of. 

.     286 

Cherry  tree  gum. 

118 

Carrot-seeds,  <fec.. 

271 

Cherries,  to  color. 

.     390 

Carracrol  for  toothache,     . 

.       94 

Chervil,           .... 

477 

Cashmere,  to  clean. 

62 

Chess,  laws  of. 

.     425 

Casking, 

.     339 

Chestnuts  for  dessert,     . 

338 

Casks,  to  sweeten. 

340 

Chickens,  to  fatten. 

.     201 

Cataplasm,  alum. 

.     238 

Chicken  water, 

376 

Cataplasm,  salt. 

238 

Chickweed  or  salad, 

.     644 

Caterpillars,  to  destroy,  195,  27 

7,  278 

Chilblains,  lotion  for,     . 

97 

Caterpillars, 

274 

Ciiilblains,  remedy  for. 

.       97 

Caterpillars,  ants,  &c.,          .     i 

56,  481 

Chilblain  liniment. 

98 

Cathartics,     .... 

645 

Children,  amusement  for. 

.     665 

Cats,           .... 

.     646 

Children,  dress  of. 

662 

Cattle,             .... 

466 

Children,  young. 

.     217 

Cattle  in  winter, 

.     289 

Children,  to  arrange  for. 

253 

Cauliflower, 

477 

Chimaphila, 

.     549 

Cautions, 

.     203 

Chimneys,  fires  in. 

203 

Cautions  in  visiting  the  sick. 

234 

Chimneys,  smoky. 

313,  440 

Celandine, 

.     235 

Chimneys,    to     sweep    with 

out 

Celery,            .... 

477 

children, 

.       41 

Celery,  essence  of, 

.     191 

Chimneys,  to  color  the  backs 

of,      24 

Celery,  to  keep. 

355 

Chimneys,  stone,  to  blacken. 

.       24 

Cellars  and  outhouses. 

.       88 

China,  to  clean. 

31 

Cement  and  ground-glass  imita 

China,  to  mend. 

.       69 

tion,         .         . 

.       69 

China,  to  cement. 

70 

Cement,  to  resist  fire  and  water 

,       69 

China  and  glass  ware. 

.     462 

Cement,  bottle,        .         .     70,  ' 

ri,  359 

Chinese     method    of    mending 

Cement,  blood, 

71 

china, 

.      70 

Cement,  diamond. 

.       71 

Chintz,  to  wash,     . 

52- 

Cement  for  metal  and  glass,  , 

71 

Chloride  of  lime,  to  use.     . 

.       92 

Cement  for  iron  flues, 

.       72 

Chocolate,  Iceland  moss. 

608 

Cement  for  alabaster,  &c., 

72 

Choke  damp, 

679 

Cement,  strong. 

.     73 

Choking, 

.     569 

Cerate  of  cantharidea     . 

238 

Cholera,  prevention  of. 

556 

Ceremonies, 

.     500 

Chowder,  New  England^ 

.     323 

Cesspools,  oiFensive, 

679 

Church-yards, 

234 

Chalk  mixture,   .         .         .1 

08,  246 

Cider  in  bottles,  to  cork,    . 

.     350 

Chalk  ointment,     . 

549 

Cinnamon, 

214 

Chambers  of  the  sick,  to  purifj 

r,       91 

Cisterns,  lead,     . 

.       43 

Chamomile  flowers. 

195 

Cleanliness, 

457 

Chamomile  tea, 

.     117 

Cleanliness,  effects  on  anima 

Is,       460 

Chamomile  and  orange  peel, 

243 

Cleanliness  in  houses,  effect 

of,       460 

ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


707 


Climate,      .... 

, 

542 

Cliver,  to  make, 

375 

Clocks,  to  oil,     . 

, 

439 

Closets,  to  free  from  moths, 

43  G 

Cloth,  &G.,  to  paint. 

, 

177 

Clothes,  to  brush. 

440 

Clothes,  to  prevent  odor  in, 

, 

441 

Clothes  bags, 

157 

Clothes  lines, 

, 

263 

Clothes  posts. 

88 

Clothing  for  children, 

218 

Clouds,  to  color,      . 

386; 

393 

Coach- wheels,     . 

, 

45 

Coals,     .... 

216 

Coal  fire,  to  light. 

, 

40 

Coat,  white  or  drab,  to  clean^ 

62 

Cockroaches,  &c.,  to  destroy. 

, 

85 

Cocoa, 

•352 

Cod-liver  oil, 

'442, 

612 

Coffee, 

189, 

608 

Coffee,  Turkish  method, 

, 

352 

Coffee,  substitute  for, 

352 

Colds, 

'1O6, 

231 

Cold,  effects  of,      . 

451 

Cold,  to  remove,  &c., 

, 

461 

Colds,  to  avoid, 

616 

Cold  in  the  head, 

106 

Cold  cream. 

135; 

624 

Colic  in  infants, 

, 

225 

Cologne  water, 

346 

Coloring  clothing, 

, 

360 

Coloring,  general  rules  for. 

362 

Coloring  for  rooms,  cheap. 

. 

36 

Colors  and  complexions. 

485 

Colors,  mixed,  directions  for 

y      , 

386 

Colors,  water. 

385 

Colors,  to  prevent  cracking, 

, 

388 

Colors,  most  useful, 

392 

Colors  for  Grecian  painting. 

, 

398 

Color  to  silk,  to  restore. 

441 

Columbo  root  and  ginger, 

, 

243 

Combs,  &c.,  to  clean. 

54 

Complexion, 

133 

,  625 

Complexion,  to  improve, 

132 

Composition,  blue. 

. 

360 

Composition,  to  prevent  iron 

&C.; 

from  rusting. 

, 

24 

Composition  for  washing  in 

sea- 

Avator, 

52 

Composition   for   colored  draw- 

ings, <fcc.. 

168 

Composition,  cheap  and  excellent 

,  315 

Compresses, 

, 

562 

Compresses,  pierced, 

, 

563 

Concussions, 

. 

669 

Condiments, 

Conduct,  Mrs.  Fry's  rules  of. 

Contusions  or  bruises. 

Conundrums, 

Conversation, 

Convulsions, 

Cookmaid,  duties  of, 

Cookmaid,  of  the. 

Copper  and  brass,  to  clean. 

Copper  in  liquids,  to  detect. 

Coral,  .artificial. 

Cordial,  julep, 

Cordials, 

Corks,  improved, 

Corn, 

Corn,  to  feed. 

Corn,  to  dry, 

Corn,  green. 

Corn  oysters, 

Corn  salad. 

Corns  on  the  feet. 

Corns,  to  prevent. 

Corns,  to  cure. 

Corn  solvent. 

Corns,  soft,  to  cure, 

Corns  and  warts. 

Corpulence, 

Corroborates, 

Corrosive  sublimate, 

Costiveness, 

Cotton,  carded, 

Cotton,  to  dye  buff. 

Coughs,  for  common, 

Coughs,  winter, 

Cough  and  hoarseness, 

Cough,  white  mixture  for. 

Cough,  troublesome, 

Coughs,  children's^ 

Cough,  hacking, 

Cough,  for  a. 

Cough  syrup. 

Counterpanes,  to  wash. 

Court  plaster,     . 

Courtship  and  marriage, 

Covers,  hints  about, 

Cows,      .... 

Cows,  feeding  with  sainfoin. 

Cows,  feeding  with  parsnips. 

Cows,  proper  food  lor. 

Cows,  milch. 

Cows,  rules  for  milking,     . 

Cows,  to  prevent  bad  habits. 

Cows  to  milk,     . 

Cramp, 

Cramp  in  bathing. 


368 

532 

115 

430 

526 

226 

251 

251 

26 

192,  619 

170 

247 

545 

70 

464 

470 

194 

337 

337 

477 

96 

96 

96 

96 

97,  615 


708 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Cramp  and  spasm, 

374 

Dirt  in  the  eye, 

572 

Crape,  black,   to  remove  water 

Discolorations  of  the  skin. 

, 

93 

stains  from, 

619 

Diseases  of  the  skin, 

457 

Cream,        .... 

, 

357 

Dishes,  washing. 

256 

Cream,  substitute  for,      190, 

352, 

608 

Dish-covers,  cleansing, 

259 

Cream  in  long  voyages, 

. 

192 

Disinfecting  liquid,     , 

, 

93 

Creosote, 

121 

Dogs,  pet,       .         .         .         . 

645 

Cress,          .... 

477 

Domestic  hints. 

, 

462 

Crickets,  to  destroy, 

85, 

440 

Door,  creaking. 

468 

Crockery  and  glass, 

33 

Door-mats,  cheap. 

444 

Croup, 

227 

Door-plates,  to  clean,     . 

28 

Crows,  to  keep  from  corn, 

. 

270 

Draining  ponds, 

. 

377 

Crust,  wine. 

327 

Draughts,  game  of. 

425 

Crust  in  the  tea-kettle, 

, 

438 

Drawing  paper. 

. 

385 

Crystallization  upon  cinders, 

424 

Drawings,  to  set  pencil, 

171 

Cucumbers, 

295 

477 

Drawings,  wash  for,  . 

, 

171 

Cup-cakes, 

, 

330 

Dress,  importance  of. 

484 

Curious  facts,     . 

659 

Dress  of  ladies, 

. 

484 

Currants,  green,  to  preserve, 

355 

Dress  of  gentlemen. 

492 

Currant  shrub. 

, 

342 

Dress,  print,  to  preserve  coloi 

'Of, 

53 

Curry,  to  prepare  a. 

, 

337 

Dress,  faded,  to  bleach, 

53 

Curry,  Lord  Clive's, 

, 

338 

Dress,  print,  to  wash. 

, ' 

52 

Curry  powder, 

, 

337 

Dresses,  &c.,  to  iron. 

53 

Cutaneous  eruptions  in  children,- 

232 

Dress-making, 

. 

635 

Cuts  and  wounds. 

• 

572 

Dressings,      .         .         .         , 
Dressing-table,  for  the. 

560 
138 

D. 

Drinks, 

369 

Drinks,  alkalescent. 

, 

242 

Dairy,  the. 

, 

357 

Drinks,  nutritive. 

244 

Dairy,  temperature  for. 

287 

Drinks,  stimulating,       ^    . 

, 

242 

Damp  walls. 

, 

16 

Drinks,  summer. 

610 

Dampness  in  beds, 

17 

Drinks,  tonic,      . 

, 

243 

Dancing,     .... 

, 

665 

Drinks  for  the  sick. 

241 

Dandelion,  use  of. 

271 

Drowning,  recovery  from,  . 

208 

,  209 

Dandelion, 

, 

549 

Drowning,  danger  of,     . 

206 

Danger  from  fire, 

203 

Drowning,  to  rescue. 

, 

649 

Daughters,  training  of, 

, 

667 

Drunkenness, 

569 

Deafness,        .         .         . 

623 

Dry  rot,      .... 

, 

309 

Deafness,  temporary. 

, 

95 

Dry  rot  in  timber, 

309 

Decanters,  to  clean, 

30 

Ducks,  to  fatten. 

, 

202 

December,           .        . 

, 

186 

Ducks  and  geese, 

201 

Decoctions,     , 

649 

Dyeing,       .... 

'  74 

,423 

Dentition, 

, 

226 

Dyeing  the  hair,    . 

613 

Dentifrice,  a  good. 

137 

Dyes,  various. 

. 

75 

Depilatory,          .         .         . 

, 

616 

Dysentery,      .         .           108, 

373 

,  374 

Diaphanic,      .         .         . 

400 

Dyspepsia  bread, 

, 

335 

Diarrhea, 

, 

108 

Diet  for  patients. 

126 

E. 

Dietetic  maxims,         ,         , 

, 

628 

Dinner,            ... 

369 

,606 

Eagles,  to  color, 

. 

390 

Dinner  parties. 

, 

507 

Ear,  diseases  in,     . 

94 

Dinner,  what  plates  for. 

r 

256 

Ear,  pain  in,        . 

95 

,  615 

Dinner,  directions  for, 

254 

Ear-ache, 

85 

,233 

Dinner,  serving  up. 

256 

Ear,  sore. 

. 

221 

Dinner-hour,  &c., 

. 

255 

Early  rising. 

636 

ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


109 


EarTvigs,  kc^  in  the  ear,  .  .  95 
Earwigs,  &q.,  to  destroy,  279,  482 

Eat  slowly,  ....     368 

Eau  d'Ange,  .         .         .  149 

Eau  de  Cologne,  .         .     146,  147 

Ebony,  imitation  of,        .         .  36 

Economical  hints,  .  .  ,  444 
Economicals  of  cooking  meats,  367 
Economics,  .         .         .         .     334 

Economy  in  expenditure.  ,        212 

Edgings,  to  plant,  <fcc.,  ,  .291 
Edgings,  box,  to  cut,     .         .         '283 

Eggs, 468 

Eggs,  dyeing,  .         ,         ,         424 

Eggs  in  jaundice,  ,  ,  .100 
Eggs,  to  preserve,      .     .         .  191 

Eggs  of  birds,  to  preserve,  .     169 

Egg-plant,  ....  478 
Elder,  good  effects  of,  .  ,  274 
Elder  flowers,  ...        648 

Elephants,  to  color,  .         ,     390 

Embankments,  .  ,  .  266 
Emblematic  stones,  .  .  .415 
Embroidery,  silk,    .         .  162,  163 

Endive,  .  .  .  *  .  .477 
Enemas,  ....  551 

Enigmas,  ....     656 

Ermine  and  Miniver,  to  clean,  54 

Eruptions,  cutaneous,  .  .  555 
Erysipelas,  cure  for,       .         .  99 

Essences  from  flowers, '  .  ,  147 
Etchings  on  glass-,  .         ,         415 

Etiquette,  rules  of,  .  .  .501 
Eveuing  pastime,  .         .  429 

Exercise,  ....     640 

Extracts,         ....  552 

Eye,  dirt  or  lime  in,  ,         .     672 

Eye,  iron  or  steel  in,  .  .  672 
Eye,  black,  to  cure,  .         .     625 

Eye,  bruised  to  cure,  .  .  94 
Eye,  cold  or  inflammation  in,  94 

Eyes,  sore,      .         .         .         .  221 

Eye-water,  .         .         .       93,  618 

Eye-brows,  to  darken,  ,  130 

F. 

Fainting,  or  syncope,  .     234,  539 

Fainting,  remedy  for,    .         .  99 

Family  at  home,  .  .  .  590 
Family  tables,        .         .         .  699 

Fard, 136 

Farmers,  hints  to,  .  198,  461 

Farms,  small,  ....  463 
Feathers,  to  clean  of  their  oil,  18,  423 


Feathers  and  hair,  to  dye  green,  77 

Feathers,  to  dye,    .         .         .  405 

Feathers,  white,  to  clean,            .  441 

Feather  flowees,     .         .         .  403 

Febrifuges,          ....  647 

Feet,^ 250 

Feet,  cold  and  damp,          .         .  104 

Feet,  frostbitten,             .         .  618 

Feet,  sore,           .         .         .         .  250 

Feet,  wet,       ....  451, 

Feet,  wounded,            .         .         .  233 

Feet,  to  keep  warm,       .         .  439 

Felon, 109 

Fences,            ....  464 

Fermentation,  to  check,      .         .  342 

Fertilizing  soils,     .         .         .  465 

Fevers,        .         .         .         .   ^     .  Ill 

Fevers,  cause  of,     .         ,        *.  467 
Fever  and  ague,          .         .         .Ill 

Fevers,  beverage  for,      .         .  112 
Fever,  scarlet,    .         .         .         .112 

Fever,  yellow,         .         .         .  lU 

Fields, 464 

Fig  paste,  .  .  .  .  108 
Figures,  to  color,  .  .  .  393 
Figures,  curious  properties  of,  679 
Filtering  bag,  ....  341 
Filth  in  streets,  .  .  .  458 
Fire,  preservation  from,  .  .  203 
Fire  in  chimneys,  .  ,  203 
Fire,  means  of  extinction,  .  203 
Fire,  to  escape  from.,  .  204,  438 
Fire,  to  make  water  more  effica- 
cious, &c.,  .  .  .  204 
Fire,  to  extinguish  speedily,  .  204 
Fire,  to  escape  from  a  house  on,  205 
Fire,  clothing  on,  .  .  .  205 
Fire,  horses  from,  .  .  205 
Fire,  to  make,  .  .  .216 
Fire,  taking  care  of,  ,  •  261 
Fires,  stoves,  <fec.,  .  .  "  .  42 
Fire,  to  revive  a  dull,  .  .  42 
Fire-balls,  ....  41 
Fire-irons,  to  prevent  rusting,  23 
Fire-places,  to  improve,  .  .  313 
Fire-screens,  paper,  .  .  439 
Fire-wood,  .  .  .  .471 
Fi.-^h,  gold  and  silver,  .  176,  644 
Fish  as  food,  ....  365 
Fi.'^h,  Russian  method  of  pre- 
serving, .  .  .  .318 
Fishing-rods,  to  preserve,      .  378 

Fits,             99 

Flannels,  to  prevent  shrinking,  48 

Flannels,  to  scour,          .         .  43 


no 


ALPHABETICA      INDEX. 


Flannels,  to  wash, 

48 

Flat-irons,  the  hot, 

450 

Fleas,  to  drive  away, 

85 

Fleas,  <fec.,  to  destroy,    , 

87 

Fleas  on  dogs,    .... 

279 

Flies,  to  destroy,      .           84,  437^ 

619 

Flies,  to  keep  off,           .         .     84 

443 

Flies,  to  keep  from  drawings, 

389 

Floors,  artificial  stone, 

310 

Floor  or  oil-cloths. 

12 

Floor-cloths,  to  clean, 

12 

Flounces,       .... 

488 

Flour,  to  test,     .... 

591 

Flour,  boiled. 

210 

Flour  of  brimstone,    . 

612 

Flowers,  to  paint. 

391 

FlOAvors,  |o  preserve  in  water. 

176 

Flowers  in  winter. 

175 

Flowers,  dried. 

177 

Flowers,  faded,  to  revive. 

177 

Flowers,  hints  about. 

179 

Flowers,  when  to  plant, 

197 

Flowers, 

470 

Flowers,  sentiments  of, 

669 

Fly,  turnip,         .... 

464 

Fly,  water,      .... 

84 

Fodder, 

471 

Folding  and  mangling. 

263 

Food  for  children,       .         .     219 

,  239 

Food  for  the  sick,  <fcc.,    . 

239 

Foot,  rot  in  sheep, 

290 

Force,     .         .         .         •         . 

393 

Fowls,  hints  about,     . 

468 

Freckles,          ...          132 

]33 

Freckles  and  sunburn. 

134 

French  polish  for  boots,  &c., 

80 

French  polish  for  furniture, 

19 

French  receipt  for  the  skin,    .  * 

134 

Frost,  to  prevent  injuring  trees. 

302 

Fruits, 

480 

Fruits,  to  keep,            .         .     193 

484 

Fruit  trees  and  fruit. 

484 

Fruit  trees,  Chinese,  <fcc.. 

302 

Fruit  trees  infected  with  blight, 

304 

Fruit  in  water  colors. 

390 

Fuel,  economy  in,  .         .            40 

,  447 

Fungi,  to  preserve,     . 

410 

Furniturer  to  clean, 

462 

Furniture  oil,      .... 

19 

Furniture  paste. 

19 

Furs,  to  clean. 

442 

Furs,  to  stretch, 

443 

Furs,  to  preserve. 

443 

Furs  and  woollens,  to  preserve, 

78 

G. 

Game,  to  preserve,  .  .  .318 
Gardening,  &c,,  .  .  291, 472 
Gargles,  ....  107,  552 
Gargle,  common,  .         ,  246 

Gargle,  detergent,  .  .  .245 
Gargle,  rose,  ...  245 

Garlic,  use  of,  <fec.,  .  .  •  279 
Garlic,  useful  properties,  .  ^  235 
Gathering,  <fcc.,  .         .         .153 

Geese,  Cobbett's  method,        .  201 

Geese,  to  color,  .         .         .     392 

Gentian-root  infusion,  .  244 

Geraniums,  ....     180 

Gilding,  to  improve,       .         .  72 

Gilding,  oil  and  water,  .  .168 
Gilding,  to  preserve,  &c.         .  18 

Gilt    or    lacquered    articles,   to 

clean,  .         .         .         .28 

Gilt  frames,  .  .  .  .628 
Ginger,  to  preserve,        .         .  319 

Gingerbread,  ....  330 
Ginger  cake,  .         .         .  596 

Ginger  snaps, o  ....  330 
Glass  vessels,  to  cleanse,  .  439 
Glass,  to  break,  -  .  .  .  462 
Glass  or  china,  to  pack,  ,  628 

Glass,  to  cut,  .  .  .  .  378 
Glass,  to  remove  crust  from,  31 

Glasses,  to  clenn,  .  .  .30 
Glasses,  to  res  OiC  lustre  of,    .  31 

Glass  stoppers,  to  loosen,  .  32,  620 
Glass  and  crockery,         .         .  33 

Glass,  &G,,  to  cement,  .  .  70 
Glnss  jars,    to    make   look   like 

china,  .....  155 
Glazed  vessels,        ...  32 

Gloves,  light  kid,  to  clean,  .  65 
Gloves,  kid,  to  clean,     .         .  627 

Gloves,  to  clean,  ...  65 
Gloves,  washing,    ...  65 

Gloves,  thread,  to  wash,  .  .  50 
Gloves,  to  dye,       .         ,         .  76 

Gloves,        ....     489,  492 

Glues 67,  68 

Glue  paste,  .         .         .         .620 

Gold,  to  cleanse,     ...  26 

Gold  chains,  to  clean,  .  .  71 
Gossiping,      .         .         .         .•  665 

Gout  and  rheumatism,  .  .  105 
Gout,  rheumatism,  lumbago,  <tc.,  101 
Grafting,  ....  195,  480 
Grafting,  composition,  for,     .  480 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


7U 


Grain,  important  discovery, 
Grain,  to  preserve, 
Grain,  musty,     . 
Granaries,  mites  in. 
Granaries,  poplar,  <fcc., 
Grapes,  to  color. 
Grapes,  to  keep, 
Grass,     . 
Grass,  to  color, 
Grass,  rye, 
Grass,  striped. 
Grasses  and  mosses, 
Grates,  to  clean. 
Gravel-walks, 
Gravies,  of  using, 
Grease  or  wax  spots. 
Grease  from  silks. 
Grease  or  paint  from  cloth. 
Grease  from  clothes,  . 
Grease  from  books. 
Grease  from  paper,     . 
Grease  from  leather, 
Grease  for  wheels, 
Grecian  painting, 
Grecian  varnish, 
Green,  a  cheap,  Ac, 
Green  paint, 
Green,  to  color. 
Greenhouse, 

Ground-glass,  to  imitate, 
Grubs,  ... 

Gruels, 
Gruel,  egg, 
Gum-boils, 
Gum-water, 
Gutta-percha  soles, 

H. 


Hail,  .... 

Hair, 

Hair,  new  method  for. 

Hair,  to  dress, 

Hair,  curling  fluid  for  the, 

Hair,  to  prevent  falling  out. 

Hairs,  to  avoid  grey. 

Hair,  to  soften,  &c,, 

Hair,  to  improve. 

Hair,  superfluous,  to  remove. 

Hair  wash,  economical. 

Hair  powder, 

Hair  dyes, 

Hair  brushes,  <fcc.,  to  clean,    . 

Hair  and  feathers,  to  dye  green. 

Hair  pencils,    '      ; 


kc,    271 

Hair,  color,         .... 

387 

272 

Hall,  cleaning  the, 

253 

.     464 

Kams,  curing,     .... 

324 

272 

Hams  and  fish,  to  smoke. 

324 

.     31G 

Handkerchief,    .... 

490 

390 

Hands,             .... 

490 

192,  353 

Hands,  camphor  cerate  for. 

143 

471 

Hands,  paste  for, 

143 

.     393 

Hands,  to  prevent  perspiration. 

143 

267 

Hands,  to  remove  stains  from, 

144 

.     267 

Hands,  to  whiten,^ 

143 

424 

Hand-bath,     .       ^. 

539 

2 

Hanging,             .         ... 

570 

292 

Hardware  and  cutlery,  to  prevent 

.     367 

rusting,            .... 

25 

55 

Hares  and  rabbits,  . 

303 

.       59 

Harness,  to  clean, 

45 

62 

Harness-makers' jet, 

45 

.     435 

Hashes, 

603 

63 

Hat,        .         .         .         .         438, 

493 

.       63 

Hats,  to  preserve. 

436 

64 

Hat,  to  scour. 

73 

.     470 

Hat,  straw,  to  bleach. 

66 

397 

Hats,  to  prevent  injury  from  rain 

.     397 

to,            ..... 

74 

38 

Hazel  nuts,     .... 

192 

.      37 

Head,  do  no  not  shave  the, 

128 

361 

Head,  scald, 

221 

.    291 

Head,  sore,          .... 

221 

69 

Heads,             .... 

688 

489,  492 

Headache  in  bed. 

436 

241 

Headache,  sick. 

614 

.     241 

Headache,  sure  remedy,     . 

624 

94 

Health,  preservation  of,             89, 

533 

.     619 

Health  and  beauty,     . 

89 

83 

Health  and  wealth, 

533 

Health,  general, 

542 

Health  in  winter. 

234 

Health,  a  few  rules  for,       .    »    . 

370 

.     452 

Health  of  animals. 

289 

128 

Heartburn,          .... 

623 

.     624 

Hedges,           .         .         .         . 

291 

489 

Hem  and  hemming. 

152 

129,  130 

Hemorrhage, 

152 

129 

Hen-house,         .... 

468 

.     129 

Hens,  to  make  lay, 

202 

130 

Herbs,  aromatic,          .         .194 

,  479 

.     131 

Herbs,  to  dry,.        .         .          194 

,  473 

132 

Herbs,  uses  of,             ... 

474 

.     131 

Herbs,  winter, 

195 

131 

Hic-cough,          .... 

108 

.     130 

High  shoulders. 

663 

54 

Hills,  to  color,    .... 

393 

en,       77 

Hinges,  creaking, 

22 

385 

History,  synopsis  of  American, 

692 

712 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Hoarseness,             .        ,        .  106 

Hogs, 467 

Hollow  horn,           ...  469 

Home  counsels,           .         .  .     652 

Home  and  its  employments,  .  9 

Home  industry,    •       .         ,  ,     635 

Home  pursuits,       .         .         .  151 

Homestead,  exemption,      .  .     684 

Honey  soap,            .         .         .  146 

Honey  water,      .         .         .  .142 

Honeysuckles,  to  pf<nt,          .  391 

Hooker's  method,  &o.,        .  .     378 

Horn,  to  stain,        .         •         .  418 

Horse,  to  manage,      ,         .  .198 

Horse,  to  dress,.     .         .         .  199 

Horse,  to  judge,          .         .  .     652 

Horses,  scratches,  on,    .         .  467 

Horses,  hints  about,  .  .  461 
Horses,  to  paint,     .         .         389,  390 

Horse-flies,          .         .         .  .200 

Horse-radish,          .         .         .  321 

Iforse-chestnut  soap,  .  .  50 
Hortus  siccus,           .         .         .        484 

Hot  water,  uses  of,    .          .  .     125 

House-cleaning,      ...  9 

Houses,  to  paint,         .         .  .     381 

Houses,  to  purify,            .         .  88 

House,  selection  of,     ,         .  .     525 

Household  management,  .  606 
Household  maxims,    ...       43 

Hungary  water,      .         .         .  141 

Hydrophobia,      .         .         .  .123 

Hypocras,  ....  348 
Hysteric  affections,     .        .     371,  569 

I. 

Idiosyncrasy,  .  .  .  .543 
Impressions  from  coins,  .         412 

Impressions  of  plants,  .  .  181 
Incense,  curious  cakes,  .  147 

Indian  ink,  .         .         .     175,  385 

Infants,  management  of,  .  217 
Infants,  medicines  for,  ,  .  220 
Infection,  to  prevent,     .         .  91 

Influenza,  •         .         .         .     102 

Ink,  to  make,     '      .  172,  173,  174 

Ink,  indelible,  .  .  .  .172 
Ink,  black  and  blue,       .         .  622 

Ink  powder,  ....  74 
Ink,  Indian,  .         .  175,  385 

Ink,  China,  ....  175 
Ink-stains,  .         .  57,  58 

Ink-stains  from  silver,  .  .619 
Ink-stains  from  wood,  .         620 


Insects,  to  destroy,  .  ,  .  277 
Insects  on  apple  trees,  .  277,  280 
Insects,  on  fruit  trees,  .  .  288 
Insects  in  bird  cages,     .         .  644 

Insects  and  earth-worms,  .     277 

Insects  and  weasels,       .         .  468 

Irish  cordial,  ....  350 
Iron,  to  stain  black,  <fec.,  .  419 
Iron,  new,  ....     446 

Irons,  to  preserve  from  rust,  24 

Iron-moulds,  ....  56 
Iron  nails  in  fruit  trees,  .         304 

Ironing,  .         .         .         .263 

Itch,  ointment. for,  .         .  650 

Ivory,  to  bleach,  .         .         .31 

Ivory  or  bone,  to  stain,  .  417 


Jambalayd,         ....  322 

January  and  Febuary,             .  182 

Japanned  candlesticks,       .         .  38 

Jaundice,        .         .         .         .  615 

Jaundice,  infantile,    .         .         .  224 

Java  sparrows,       .         .         .  642 

Jelly  made  with  gelatine,            .  598 

Jelly,  nourishing,            .         .  240 

Jelly,  rice,           ....  241 

Jelly,  apple,            .         .         .  319 
Jessamine  butter,        .         .         .139 

Jewels  of  the  months,     .         .  415 

Johnny  cakes,             .         .         .  336 

Joint,  stiff,      ....  375 

July, 184 

Jumbles,         ....  330 

June, 183 

K. 

Kettle,  hints  about,             .         .  455 

Kindness,        ....  664 

Kitchen,  arrangements  for,         .  252 

Kitchen  cloths,       ...  87 

Kitchen,  economy  in,          .     •    .  253 

Kitchen  paper,       .         .         .  216 
Kitchen  garden,          .         .         .291 

Knife-boards,          ...  29 

Knives  and  forks,  to,clean,       28,  261 

Knives,  cleaning,             .          261,  629 

Knives  and  forks,  to  refasten,  29 


Lace,  blond,        ....       61 
Lace,  gold  or  silver,       .        .  72 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


713 


Lace,  white,  to  wash, 

58, 

626 

Linen  rags,    . 

446 

Lacquer,  to  clean. 

34 

Liniments, 

.     550 

Lamps,  to  clean, 

. 

34 

Linings,  &c.,  to  dye. 

76 

Lamps,  economical  wick  for, 

34 

Linnet,  or  finch. 

.     613 

Lamps,  to  prevent,  &c., 

. 

104 

Linseed  poultice,    . 

113 

Lamps,  to  prevent  smoking. 

. 

441 

Linseed  tea. 

.     117 

Lamps  and  candles. 

. 

215 

Lint,       .         .         . 

561 

Lamp  oil,  the  best, 

439 

Lint,  scraped,     . 

.     562 

Land,  wet, 

. 

471 

Lions,  to  color, 

389 

Landscapes  in  water  colors, 

392 

Lips,  chapped. 

.     146 

Laudanum, 

. 

121 

Lips,  paste  for, 

146 

Lavender,  oil  of. 

622 

Lip  salve. 

.     146,  619 

Lavender,  vinegar,     . 

. 

148 

Lockjaw,  to  prevent, 

375,  612 

Lavender  water,     . 

141 

Logwood, 

.     549 

Laws,          .... 

. 

682 

Looking-glass,  to  clean. 

18,  438 

Laxatives,        .         .         108, 

547; 

551 

Lotions, 

.     548 

Lead,           .... 

, 

121 

Love's  telegraph. 

512 

Lead-color,     . 

387 

Lumbago, 

.     615 

Leaf  impressions,         .     176, 

410, 

411 

Lunar  caustic, 

121 

Leanness, 

120 

Lungs,  development  of. 

.     537 

Leap  year,           .         .         , 

. 

673 

Lungs,  to  ascertain,  <fec., 

553 

Leather  cases,  to  clean^ 

54 

' 

Leather,  old,  oiling,   . 

, 

45 

M. 

Leather  work,  ornamental, 

422 

Leather,  enamelled,  to  polish 

, 

628 

Macassar  oil. 

.     139 

Leaves,  skeleton. 

409 

Magazines  to  be  read,    . 

384 

Leaves,  Avhen  to  collect,     . 

306 

Mahogany,  to  darken, 

.       35 

Leaf-lice, 

484 

Mahogany,  to  restore,  &c.. 

621 

Leeches,     .... 

'lOl 

570 

Mahogany,  to  give  any,  <fec.,       .       35 

Lemonade, 

242 

349 

Mahogany,  to  remove  ink  from,        21 

Lemonade,  Italian,     . 

, 

349 

Maid, 

.     210 

Lemon  juice,  to  purify. 

192 

Making  beds. 

17 

Length  of  day  and  night,  to 

as- 

Management  of  infants. 

.     217 

certain. 

673 

Manners, 

494 

Letter  writing, 

, 

660 

Manure,  to  preserve, 

.     266 

Letters,  to  gild. 

378 

Manure,          .         .           266,  465,  468 

Lettuce,      .... 

, 

478 

Many  things,     ". 

.     319 

Lettuce,  to  keep,     . 

355 

Maps  or  prints,  to  mount. 

.      .    168 

Ley,  dyspeptic. 

. 

242 

Marble,  to  clean. 

14,  15 

Life-belts, 

648 

Marble,  to  take  out  stains. 

15 

Lightning,  stroke  of, 

*208 

,  570 

Marble,  to,  books,  &c.. 

.     382 

Lightning,  to  avoid, 

460 

Marble,  artificial. 

86 

Lime,          .... 

, 

464 

March, 

.     182,  453 

Lime  for  cottage  walls, 

37 

Marking, 

154 

Lime  in  the  eye, 

, 

572 

Marking  ink. 

.     17» 

Lime  and  oil. 

551 

Marl,  limestones,  <tc.,    . 

266 

•Lime  and  oil  camphorated. 

, 

551 

Marriage  ceremony. 

.     513 

Lime  water,     , 

116 

,247 

Marriage,  after. 

520 

Lime  water. 

389 

,  594 

Maxims  and  morals, 

.     632 

Linen,  to  bleach, 

57 

May,       .... 

183 

Linen,  house,  <fec.. 

, 

157 

Mayonnaise, 

.     322 

Linen,  to  perfume. 

148 

Mead,  rod  and  white. 

316 

Linen,  to  take  stains  out  of, 

, 

54 

Mead,  rich. 

.     315 

Linen,  scorched,     . 

55 

Measles, 

372 

Linen,  to  restore,  <fec., 

. 

55 

Meat  for  children. 

.     307 

tl4 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Meats,  cooking, 

601 

Mustard, 

326,  478 

Meats,  preserving,      .         .     60], 

604 

Mustard,  French, 

321 

Mechanic^,  &c.,  hints  to, 

630 

Mustard,  mild. 

.     326 

Medicine,  administering,    .     237 

543 

Mustard  plasters. 

375 

Medicines  in  traveling. 

118 

Mustard  poultices,      . 

.     112 

Medicines,  precautions  in, 

559 

Mutton, 

367 

Melons,                .         .         .      295, 

478 

Mending,        .... 

157 

N. 

Merinoes,  &g.,  to  clean, 

60 

Metal  kettles,  &c.. 

29 

Nails,  for  preserving  the, 

.     144 

Mice, 

276 

Nails,  to  whiten. 

144 

Mildew  out  of  linen, 

56 

Nankeen  dye,     . 

.       77 

Mildew, 

483 

Nankeen  color,  to  make, 

361 

Milk,  baked. 

190 

Napkins,  dinner, 

.     157 

Milk,  morning's, 

447 

Naples'  soap. 

145 

Milk  of  ro.^es, 

140 

Narcotics, 

.     547 

Milk  vessels,       .         .         •         . 

258 

Nasturtium, 

478 

Mince-meat, 

335 

Naturalization  laws, 

.     686 

Miniver  and  Ermine, 

54 

Nausea, 

614 

Mint  tea,         .... 

117 

Nectar,        .         .         . 

.     346 

Miscellaneous  receipts,        .     319 

615 

Neighbors  and  spectators. 

204 

Mistress,          .... 

210 

Nettle  sting, 

.     437 

Mixture  for  stone  stairs. 

15 

Neuralgia  in  the  face,    . 

93 

Mock  turtle,  imitation  of, 

322 

Newspapers, 

.     383 

Mocking  bird. 

643 

Night  sweats, 

615 

Molasses, 

338 

Nitrates,     .         .         .         . 

.     121 

Molasses,  apple, 

338 

Nitre,     .... 

117 

Moles, 

134 

Nose,  bleeding  from. 

.     574 

Monkeys,  to  color. 

390 

November, 

186 

Moreen  curtains,  to  clean. 

16 

Nurse,  qualifications  of,     , 

.     235 

Morocco  shoes,  to  clean. 

444 

Nurse,  rules  for,     . 

237 

Moss  on  trees,              .         .         . 

195 

Nutmeg,  essence  of. 

.     191 

Moth  on  the  skin, 

623 

Nutmeg  pudding. 

333 

Mother,       .         .         .         .210 

668 

Nutmegs, 

191,  353 

Mother-of-pearl,  to  clean. 

28 

Nutrients, 

547 

Moths,  to  prevent        .          78,  79 

,437 

Nutritives, 

.     552 

Moths,  beetles,  &c.,    .    . 

79 

Mould,  artificial  for  plants. 

181 

0. 

Moul'diness, 

193 

Mouse  trap. 

2S3 

Oats,  to  preserve, 

.     272 

Mouth,  wash  for. 

146 

October 

185 

Mucilage,  Gum  Arabic, 

555 

Odeur  delectable, 

.     149 

Mucilage,  starch, 

555 

Odor  reviving, 

377 

Mumps,       ..... 

372 

Odors,  unpleasant. 

.       38 

Mushrooms, 

296 

Oil,          .... 

552 

MusH^ooms,  to  test. 

193 

Oil,  to  make  sweet,     . 

.     215 

Mushrooms,  when  poisonous. 

121 

Oil,  neat-foot. 

2]^ 

Mushrooms,  to  pickle, 

355 

Oil  on  the  hearth, 

.     439 

Mushroom  spawn, 

478 

Oil  paint,  &c.,  to  remove. 

62 

Music, 

655 

Oil  paintings,  to  clean, 

.       39 

Musk, 

148 

Oil-skin  coat,  to  make, 

83 

Muslins,  to  keep  a  good  color, 

48 

Ointments, 

.     113,114 

Muslins  and  chintzes,  to  wash, 

463 

Ointment,  invaluable,     . 

616 

Musnud  for  a  sofa,     . 

161 

Ointment,  camphorated,     . 

.     549 

Mustaches,     .        '.         .         . 

624 

Ointment,  chalk,    . 

550 

ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


n5 


Ointment  for  itch,       .         • 

550 

Oiuimeiits  for  scrofula,  . 

650 

Ointments  and  cerates, 

549 

Ointments,  to  spread,     . 

562 

Okra,  or  gumbo, 

478 

Olive  oil,  to  purify, 

191 

Onion,  wild,        .         .    »   . 

469 

Onions,  ....         276, 

478 

Onions,  to  cook, 

354 

Onions,  to  keep,     . 

354 

Opium,        .         .         .     121,  549, 

552 

Opodeldoc,  liquid,  . 

115 

Orange,  to  color. 

387 

Oranges  and  lemons,  to  keep. 

353 

Orangeade,  rich. 

349 

Orchard,          .... 

302 

Orgeate  paste,    .... 

349 

Out-houses  and  cellars, 

88 

Oxalic  acid,         .... 

121 

Ox-gall,  prepared. 

57 

Oxen,          ..... 

466 

Oyster  gumbo, 

321 

Oyster  sausages           .         . 

323 

P. 
Pads,          ..... 

563 

Paint,  to  clean,      .         .             13 

,620 

Paint,  cheap,      .... 

36 

Paint,  fresh,  to  destroy  the  smell. 

38 

Paint,  to  extract  from  woolen,  . 

436 

Painting  houses,    . 

381 

Painting  on  glass. 

381 

Painting,  Grecian, 

398 

Paints,   for   Grecian,   etc., 

398 

Panada, 

327 

Pancakes,       .... 

329 

Paper,  family,    .... 

634 

Paper,  room,  to  choose, 

627 

Paper,  black,  for  patterns. 

170 

Paper,  transparent. 

171 

Paper,  tracing,  .... 

171 

Paper  or  parchment,  to  stain. 

178,  417 

,  419 

Paper  hangings,  to  clean. 

12 

Paper  or  color,  to,  the  walls  of 

rooms,          .... 

15 

Paper- work   and  japanned  can- 

dlesticks,    .... 

33 

Paper,  to  mnke  less  combustible. 

203 

Pa[)ier-macbe  articles, 

627 

Parciiment  glue,     . 

68 

Paregorics 

547 

Parlor  amusements. 

656 

Parsley, 

478 

Parsley  and  butter, 

326 

Parsnips, 478 

Parsnips,  to  keep,  .  273,  354 

Paste,  almond,   ....     140 

Paste  for  the  skin,  .         .  13G 

Pastes,  several,  ....       67 

Paste  for  pies,         .         .         •  595 

Paste-board,  <fcc.,        .         .  259 

Pastilles,  fumigating,     .        .  92 

Patchwork,         .         .         ,         .158 
Patterns,         ,         .         .         .  158 

Patterns  for  working  in  cord,  &c.,    162 
Peach  trees,        •    ^    •         •         .471 
Peaches,  to  color,    .         .         .  391 

Pearls,  to  restore,  &c:,        .         .       72 
Pearls,  white,  .         ,         .  141 

Pears,  to  graft,  ....     470 

Pears,  to  color,       .         .         .         391 
Peas,  ....     296,  478 

Peas,  sowing  in  circles,  .  .     296 

Pepper,      ....     214,  478 

Perches,  ....  641 

Perfumery,  a  pleasant,       .         .     147 
Periodicals     ....         384 

Personal  matters,       .         .         .     484 
Peruvian  bark,       .         .         .  243 

Peruvian  bark  and  valerian,      .     243 
Pets,       .....  641 

Pewter,  to  clean,         ...       27 
Pheasants,  to  color,        .         ,  392 

Phosphoric  bottle,      .         .         .     382 
Phosphorous,  to  make,  .         .         381 
Phrenology",        ....     687 

Pickle,  India,         .         .         .         321 
Pickle  that  will  keep,  &c.,  .     324 

Pickle  and  preserve  jars,        .  259 

Pic-nic  biscuits,  .         .         .     595 

Picture-frames,  to  retouch,     .  19 

Pigs,  fattening,  ....     290 

Pillow-cases,  .         .         .  156 

Pimples,  wash  for,     .         .         .135 
Pincushion  covers,  .         .  156 

Piping,        ...         .         .         .154 

Plaiting,         .         .         .         .  3  55 

Plants, 470 

Plants,  to  dwarf,    .         .         .  410 

Plants,  house,     .         .         ,         .178 
Plants,  succulent,  .         .  301 

Plants,  to  air,  &c.       .         .         .179 
Plants,  to  kill  vermin  on,       .  196 

IMants,  to  propagate,  .         .196 

Plants,  watered, ^&c.,      .         .  J 97 

Plants,  window,  .         .         .182 

Plants,  poisonous,  .         .  673 

Plasters,  blisters,  Ac,         .         '     ^\^, 
Plasters  and  poultices,  .         .  238 


716 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Plaster,  adhesive, 
Plaster,  mustard,  . 
Piaster,  spice,    . 
Plaster  casts,  to  improve, 
Plaster  figures,  . 
Plate,  to  clean,     , 
Plate  powder,     . 
Plow  deep. 
Poison, 

Poisons  and  antidotes, 
Polish  for  dining-tables, 
Polish  and  varnish, 
Polished  grates,  &c., 
Polishing  paste,     , 
Pomatun3ks, 
Pomade  divine. 
Ponds,  to  keep  free,  4c., 
Pork,       .         .         .        ' 
Pot-pourri, 
Potatos, 

Potatos,  boiling, 
Potatos,  to  keep,     . 
Potatos,  to  raise, 
Potatos  in  bleaching, 
Potichomanie, 
Poultice,  bark. 
Poultice,  bread, 
Poultice,  elder-floAver, 
Poultice,  linseed; 
Poultice,  mush. 
Poultice,  mustard. 
Poultice,  white  bean. 
Poultices, 

Poultice  for  burns,  &c. 
Poultry, 
Pounce, 

Powder,  almond,  <fec., 
Powers  of  the  mind. 
Preparation  for  marking. 
Prints  or  maps,  to  mount, 
Prints  or  books,  to  clean. 
Privies,  &g., 
Prunes,  stewed, 
Prussic  acid. 
Pudding,  cheap. 
Pudding,  sago  and  appL 
Pudding,  pea,     . 
Pudding-cloths,  <fec., 
Pumpkin,  . 
Pumpkin,  to  dry,   . 
Pumpkin  pie,     . 
Putty,  to  dissolve, 


, 

562 

238 

, 

238 

165 

165 

25, 

620 

25 

465 

, 

617 

120 

, 

20 

20 

, 

22 

27 

*138 

139 

139 

285 

366 

469 

, 

141 

605 

, 

354 

194, 

354 

270 

57 

, 

394 

231 

, 

113 

246 

, 

113 

239 

\u, 

55.4 

246 

*653, 

554 

442 

'200, 

602 

378 

*140, 

141 

687 

622 

168 

39 

39 

241 

121 

597 

597 

598 

257 

479 

354 

334 

165 

Q. 


Quicksilver, 

^ 

35 

Quilts, 

. 

155 

Quince  seed,  mucilage  of    , 

, 

247 

Quince  syrup, 

611 

Quinsy, 

*107 

,230 

R. 

Racahout  des  Arabes, 

353 

Radishes, 

297 

,479 

Rags,  save  the    . 

264 

Rain,  cause  of  rain. 

452 

Raspberry  cakes, 

, 

330 

Raspberry  vinegar. 

. 

351 

Rats,          .         .         .         86, 

283 

,  619 

Rats  or  mice. 

283 

284 

Razor-strop  paste 

, 

32 

Razor,  strops. 

. 

74 

Reading  aloud,  . 

, 

652 

Reading  in  bed. 

, 

438 

Receipts,    .... 

, 

686 

Re-cooking,  . 

255 

Red  gum,  .... 

, 

224 

Red  lavender  drops. 

, 

100 

Reed  bird,           ... 

643 

Reptiles,  to  kill,     . 

281 

Ptesp  in  sheep,   . 

, 

289 

Pvestorative,    . 

240 

Rheumatism  and  gout. 

. 

101 

Pvheuinatism  and  lumbago. 

101 

623 

Rheumatism,  infusion  for, 

244 

Rheumatism,  mixture  for. 

244 

Rhubarb, 

, 

479 

Rhubarb,  garden,  . 

293 

Rhubarb,  to  cure, 

300 

Rhubarb  stalks. 

334 

Rhubarb,  turkey. 

*299; 

300 

Rice  caudle. 

336 

Rice-flour  cement, 

, 

621 

Riches,  .         . 

574 

Rickets,      .... 

, 

228 

Riddles, 

656 

Riding,  art  of,    . 

, 

651 

Riding  dress. 

650 

Rings,         .... 

, 

438 

Ring,  to  remove  a  tight. 

621 

Ringworm,      .         .         .98 

,99, 

616 

Road  and  paths,  to  color. 

393 

Robes,        .... 

, 

48^ 

Robin,    .         .         . 

643 

ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Ill 


Rock-cakes, 

.     330 

Rolls,      .         .         .    '    . 

335 

Rooms,  ventilating,    . 

.     260 

Rose-color,  to  make. 

262 

Roses,  to  paint, 

.     391 

Roses,  spirit  and  oil  of, 

148 

Roses,  tincture  of. 

.     142 

Rose  vinegar. 

351 

Rosewater, 

.     142 

Rosewood,  imitation  of. 

35 

Rossolis,  French, 

.     347 

Rot  in  sheep. 

290 

Rugs,          .... 

.     450 

Running, 

152 

Russet,    ^  . 

.     388 

Ruta-baga,     , 

471 

Rye,  .        .        .        .        .. 

.    464 

S. 

Sackatash,          .        . 

.    337 

Sage,  virtues  of,     . 

116 

Sage  and  onion  stuffing,     . 

.     326 

Sage  tea. 

117,  244 

Sago,          .... 

.     240 

Sal  volatile,  . 

446 

Salad,  to  raise  quickly. 

.     271 

Saline  draught. 

107,611 

Salt,            .         .         •         . 

.     468 

Salt  of  lemons, 

57 

Saltpetre, 

.     121 

Salsify,  .... 

479 

Sarsaparilla,  decoction  of, 

.     614 

Satin,  black,  to  clean, 

58 

Satin,  white. 

.       61 

Sauces,  .... 

325 

Sauce-pans,  kettles,  &c.     . 

256,  454 

Scalds  and  burns. 

109,  110 

Scarlet  fever. 

.     376 

Scent,  very  fine,     . 

142 

Scions, 

.     480 

Scouring  drops, 

63,447 

Scratches,  .... 

.     616 

Scrofula, 

228 

Scrofula,  ointment  for. 

.     550 

Scurf  on  the  head,  &c.,  . 

623 

Scurvy,       .... 

.     375 

Sea-sickness,  to  preventj 

118 

Sea-water,  artificial,  . 

.     233 

Sea- water,  to  make  fit,  &c. 

43 

Sea-water,  effect  of,    . 

.     451 

Sea-weed,  to  preserve,  . 

407 

Sen  ling- wax,  red. 

.     172 

Sealing-wax,  varnish,    . 

168 

Seasoning  fur  stuffing, 

.     327 

Seeds,  to  preserve. 
Seeds  for  fruit  trees,  . 
Seeds,  to  discover,  &e., 
Seeds,  flower,  to  preserv 
Seeds,  foreign. 
Senna,  infusion  of. 
Senna,  tea, 

S(^ntiments  of  flowers, 
September,     . 
Servants,    • 

Servants,  punctuality  in 
Servants,  rules  for. 
Sewing,      .         .         . 
Sewing  on  glazed  calico. 
Shave,  an  easy, 
Shaving,     . 
Shaving,  composition  for 
Shaving  liquids, 
Sheep,    . 
Sheep,  to  select. 
Sheep,  to  catch. 
Sheep,  to  mark, 
Sheets,  . 
Sherbet, 
Shirt,      . 
Shirt,  to  iron,     . 
Shocks,  violent, 
Shoes, 

Shoes,  white  satin. 
Shopping,  . 
Shower-bath,  hand,    " 
Shumac,     .         .         , 
Sick,  management  of, 
Sick  room,  rules  for,  . 
Sickness,  remedies  for, 
Sickness,  severe, 
Sickness  and  vomiting. 
Side,  pain  in. 
Sight,  rules  for,  &c., 
Silk  articles. 
Silk,  old, 

Silks,  black,  to  dip,    . 
Silks,  to  alum, 
Silks,  to  clean,    . 
Silks,  to  extract  grease. 
Silks  and  merinoes,    . 
Silks  and  stuffs, 
Singing,  utility  of. 
Sink,      . 
Skeleton  leaves. 
Skin,  to  soften,  &c., 
Skin,  wash  for,  . 
Skins,  squirrel. 
Slate  color. 
Sleep,  to  promote. 


2G7,  291 

481 

197 

197 

291 

247 

117 

669 

185 

213,  606 

252 

251 

151,  152 

165 

150 

149 

150 

150 

469 

466 

290 

288 

155 

347,  348 

492 

53 

569 

81 

80 

669 

124 

471 

217 

558 

371 

91 

222 

618 

249 

627 

60 

61 

75 

60,  61 

59 

60 

59 

654 

257 

409 

132 

140 

442 

361 

,  430 


118,  23 


tl8 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


Sleet,  cause  of,  . 

452 

Slugs, 

281 

Slugs  and  snails, 

481 

Slugs,  rose,     .... 

483 

Small-pox,  to  prevent  pitting,    . 

559 

Small-pox  marks,  . 

555 

Smelling-bottle,           .         .         , 

148 

Smoke,  to  color,     . 

393 

Smoke  of  a  candle,  <fec., 

455 

Smut  in  wheat. 

268 

Snails,         ..... 

281 

Snake  bites,  .... 

121 

Snow,  cause  of,  . 

451 

Snow,  effect  of,       . 

452 

Soap,           

216 

Soap,  essence  of,    . 

144 

Soaps,  various,           .         .      145 

,  146 

Soap,  soft,      .... 

365 

Soap,  substitute  for,  . 

46 

Soap  liniment  with  Spanish  flies. 

551 

Soda-cake,      .... 

328 

Soda-water  and  ginger-beer  pow- 

ders,     

350 

Soil  for  fruit  trees. 

481 

Sore  throat,  gargle  for. 

103 

Sore  throat,  ulcerated,  . 

107 

Sorel, 

471 

Sound  and  light,  velocity  of, 

674 

Soap,  vegetable,     . 

241 

Spasms, 

101 

Spectacles,  use  of, 

655 

Spermaceti  or  wax  on  cloth. 

63 

Spermaceti  ointment,     . 

246 

Spider,  bite  of,    , 

468 

Spider,  red,    .... 

281 

Spinach, 

479 

Spirits,  to  test, 

191 

Spit,  &c.,  cleaning.     . 

258 

Splints,  substitutes  for. 

568 

Sponge,  to  clean. 

54 

Sponge-cake,           .      '  . 

331 

Spots  on  silk,      .         .         .         • 

59 

Spots  on  cloths,  &c., 

59 

Spots  from  woolen  cloths. 

62 

Spots  in  linen. 

58 

Sprain,        ...... 

115 

Sprain  or  bruise,    . 

233 

Spruce  beer,        .... 

350 

Squash,           .         ,         .           355 

,  479 

Squill  mixture,  .... 

246 

Squinting,       .... 

613 

Squirrels 

644 

Stables  and  ford,    . 

466 

Staining  marble,  <fcc.. 

416 

Stains  from  hands, 

627 

Stains  of  wine,  <fec.,    . 

65 

Stains, 

66 

Stains,  ink,         .         .         . 

67 

Stains  from  bombazine, 

57 

Stains  from  silks, 

61 

Stair-carpet,  to  sweep,  . 

438 

Stammering,      .         .         .      120 

,  248 

Starch,  to  make,    . 

47 

Starch,  gum  Arabic, 

47 

Starch  injection,    . 

246 

States,  American,  when  settled, 

692 

Steam, 

44 

Steel,  to  take  rust  out  of. 

25 

Steel-pens,          .... 

170 

Steel-pens,  pen-wiper  for,    .\ 

170 

Steeps,  fertilizing. 

268 

Stilton  cheese,        .         . 

359 

Sting  of  insects. 

123 

Sting  of  a  nettle,    . 

123 

Stitches,  explanation  of,    . 

152 

Stitching,        .... 

153 

Stock,  hints  about,     . 

466 

Stockings,  to  wash, 

50 

Stockings,  silk,  to  dye. 

76 

Stockings,  worsted,  to  mend. 

627 

Stomachic  mixture,    . 

100 

Stone  stairs,  &c.,  to  wash, 

14 

Stone   halls,  &c,,  to  take  oil  out 

of        ....         . 

14 

Stoves  to  clean,      .         .         .22,  28 

Strains,  embrocation  for,    . 

101 

Straw,  to  bleach,    . 

66 

Straw-color  and  yellow,     .      362 

388 

Strawberries, 

298 

Strawberries,  to  color. 

391 

Strawberry  plants. 

298 

Street,  rules  for, 

605 

Striped  grass -for  hay,    . 

267 

Styptics,              .         .         .        98 

648 

Suckers,  from  shrubs,    . 

304 

Sufibcation,         .... 

670 

Sugar  of  lead  in  wines. 

343 

Sulphur,  use  of,           .         .     274, 

468 

Sunburn,         .     -    . 

624 

Sunburn,  preventive  for,    . 

133 

Sunburn,  grape,  &c.. 

134 

Sunburn  and  freckles. 

134 

Sunflowers,     .... 

484 

Sunstroke,           .... 

670 

Supper,            ..... 

368 

Support  for  bed-clothes,     . 

568 

Surgery,  domestic. 

560 

Swans,  to  color, 

393 

Swansdown,  to  clean,      , 

54 

Sweet-scented  water. 

142 

ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 


119 


Swimming,  art  of, 
Syncope,  or  fainting, 
.  Syrup  of  cloves,  &c., 
Syrup  of  ginger,    , 
Syrup,  lemon,     . 
Syrup,  turnip, 


547 
234 
346 
347 
245 
245 


Table,         .         .         .         . 

.     210 

Table-cloths, 

157 

Table-covers,  dressing. 

.     156 

Table-linen,  . 

156 

Tables,  useful  family, 

.     699 

Tar  water,  use  of,  . 

104 

Tartar,  to  remove. 

.     619 

Tartar  emetic 

122 

Tea,  Chinese  method, 

.     351 

Tea,  economical,    . 

352 

Tea,  preparing. 

.     260 

Teas,  black,    . 

188 

Teas,  green. 

.     189 

Tea,  sage, 

244 

Tea-pot,  the  best, 

.     454 

Tea-urns,  cleaning, 

27 

Tea-urns,  polished,     . 

.       33 

Technical     terms,     relating 

to 

books, 

.     680 

Teeth,    .... 

137 

Teeth,  infant's,  .         . 

.     247 

Teeth  and  gums,    . 

248 

Temperance, 

.     581 

Terms  technical  relating  to 

en- 

gravings,     . 

.     681 

Terms  technical  in  medicine, 

544 

Terrines  of  rice. 

.     333 

Things  to  know,     . 

450 

Thirst,  to  prevent, 

.     206 

Thread,  <fcc.,  to  keep,     . 

155 

Throat,  sore. 

.     231 

Thrush,  or  sore  mouth,  , 

233 

Thumb,  dislocated,     . 

.     572 

Tight  lacing, 

487 

Tiles,           .... 

312,  313 

yimber. 

Timber,  green,  to  season,  . 

306 

.     310 

Timber,  method  of  trying 

310 

Timber,  to  eut,  . 

.     470 

Time,  true,     . 

673 

Tin  covers,  to  clean,  . 

.       27 

Tinder,  economy  in. 

216 

Toads,         .... 

.     471 

Tobacco, 

122 

Tobacco,  useful,  &c., 

.     301 

Toilet,  the,     . 

127 

Tomato,  catchup. 

.     320 

Tomato  pickle,  green,    . 

320 

Tomato,      .... 

.     479 

Tonics, 

548 

Tool-chests,  family,    . 

.     633 

Tooth,  decayed,  to  fill. 

138,  612 

Tooth-powders,  various,  136 

]37,  619 

Tooth-acho; 

.     625 

Tortoise-shell,  to  mend. 

71 

Ton, 

.     562 

Towels, 

156 

Transferring  to  glass,  &c.. 

.     412 

Transfer  to  glass,  . 

413 

Transfer  to  wood. 

.     413 

Transfer  to  ivory,  . 

414 

Transfer  to  cardboard. 

.     414 

Transfer  to  earthenware. 

415 

Transfer  varnish. 

.     412 

Transplant,  to. 

295 

Trees,  to  transplant. 

.     471 

Trees,  to  cut, 

461 

Trees,  to  color,  , 

.     393 

Trees,  to  increase,  &c., 

303 

Trees,  to  destroy  moss  on, 

.     304 

Trees,  to  cure  canker,    . 

304 

Trees,  healing  wounds  in. 

305,  307 

Trees,  composition  for. 

.     305 

Trees  for  shade. 

307 

Trees,  forest. 

.     306 

Trees,  whitewashing,     . 

307 

Trimmings, 

.     486 

Trousers, 

493 

Turkeys,  to  color. 

.     392 

Turkeys,  to  fatten, 

202 

Turner's  cerate, 

.     114 

Turnip, 

479 

Turnips,  soil  for. 

.     270 

Turnips,  to  preserve, 

273 

Turnips,  to  prevent  fly  in. 

.     275 

Turnips,  to  prevent  slugs  in 

279 

Turnips,  small,  . 

.     471 

Turnip  syrup. 

244 

Turpentine, 

.     551 

Turpentine,  nutritive,    . 

652 

Unventilated  places,  to  explore,  440 
Useful  hints  about  bed-clothes,  17 
Useful  receipts,         .         .         .611 


V. 

Vapor-bath  at  home. 
Vapor-bath,  simple, 


250 
125 


720 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Varnish,  Grecian,       .         .  .     397 

Varnish,  transfer,            .  .          412 

Varnish  for  violins,    .         .  .21 

Varnish,  white,      .         .  .            21 
Varnish  for  straw  or  chip  hats,         66 

Varnish,  incombustible,     .  .       72 

Varnish  for  oil  pictures,  .          169 

Varnish,  to  prevent,  &c.,   ,  .     177 

Varnished  furniture,      .  ,            20 

Vaults,  hints  about,   .         .  .461 

Vegetables,  properties  of,  .          474 

Vegetables,  to  cultivate     .  .     476 
Vegetables,  to  clear  of  insects,       605 

Vegetables,         .         .         .  .604 

Veils,  white,  to  clean,    .  .         441 

Velvet,  to  clean,         .         .  .     627 

Velvet,  to  raise  the  pile  of,  .            62 

Venomous  animals,  bite  of,  .     122 

Ventilators,  improved,  .  .          316 

Ventriloquism,   .         .         .  .659 

Verdigris,       ....  122 

Verjuice,  how  to  make,      ,  .     118 

Vermin,  cause  of,    .         .  .          457 

Vermin  in  gardens,    .         .  .     279 

Vermin  in  granaries,      .  .          282 

Vermin  on  plants,       •         .  .196 

Vesicants,       .         .         .  .         548 

Vest, 493 

Vinegar  for  burns,          .  .          ]10 

Vinegar,  to  make,      .         .  ,     193 

Vinegar,  aromatic,         .  .          148 

Vinegar,  lavender,      .         •  .     148 

Vimegar  mixture,    .         .  .          242 

Vines,  to  prune,          .         ♦  306,  679 

Visits  and  presentations,  .         502 

Vitriol,  white,    .         .         .  .122 

Vitriol  accidents,    .         .  .          110 

Voice,  the,          .        .        .  .654 

W. 


Walking  with  a  lady. 

.     501 

Wall -fruit,      . 

306 

Walls,  damp, 

.     312 

AValnut  ketchup,    . 

355 

Walnut  water,    . 

.     116 

Warmth,  dry. 

568 

Warts, 

.       96 

Warts  and  corns,    . 

96 

Wash  colors  for  maps. 

.     389 

Wash  for  pimples. 

135 

Wash  for  walls. 

.     360 

Wash,  to, 

363 

Wash  balls, 

.     144 

Washing,  family, 

49 

Washing,  frequent,    .         . 
Washing,  general, 
Vv^ashing  day,     . 
Washing  materials. 
Washing  preparations, 
Washing  woolen,   . 
Washington,  words  of. 
Wasps,   .... 
Wasps  and  ants, 
Wasps  and  flies,     . 
Wasp  or  bee,  sting  of. 
Wasp,  cure  for  swallowing. 
Watch,  to  manage,     . 
Water,    .... 
Water,    to   prevent   freezing   in 

pipes. 
Water,  hard. 
Water,  to  make  soft. 
Water,  stagnant,    . 
Water,  to  obtain  pure. 
Water,  to  obtain,    . 
Water,  hot. 
Water,  keeping  hot, 
Water  and  meat  in  voyages. 
Water,  rules  for  those  who  havis 

fallen  in,     . 
Water,  barley. 
Water,  bergamot. 
Waters  for  cooling,  <fec., 
Water,  peach,  &c.,     . 
Water-colors  in  drawing. 
Water-colors  for  animals,  . 
Water,  to  color. 
Water-proof  clothing. 
Water-proof  cloth. 
Wax  or  grease-spots. 
Wax,  <fec.,  from  cloth,    . 
Wax,  from  velvet,      . 
Wax  candles. 
Wealth,  way  to. 
Weaning  children, 
Weather,  signs  of, 
Weather  and  the  blood. 
Weather-proof  composition. 
Wedding  breakfast. 
Wedding  cards. 
Wedding  cakes. 
Wedding  rings. 
Weeds,    .... 
Weights  and  measures. 
Wet  clothes,  to  prevent,  &c.. 
Wheat,  to  sow,  . 
Wheat,  to  prevent  smut, 
Wheat  and  barley,  to  sow. 
Whey,  alum, 


459 

46 
262 
626 

46 
363 
695 
482 

85 

85 

123 

123 

186 

42,43 

43 
626 
446 
441 
244 
377 
554 
259 

44 


649 

245 

347 

244 

347 

385 

389 

388 

77 

78,82 

55 

63 

63 

34 

583 

220 

674 

675 

36 

517 

5!7 

519 

519 

285,  464 

..  699 

104 

269 

27 

470 

247 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


121 


Whey,  French  methocl, 

Whey,  laxative, 

Whey,  mustard, 

Whey,  wine, 

Whiskers,  &c.,  to  promotej 

Whit«  for  inside,  ^c,    . 

White,  a  good,    . 

White  satin, 

White  varnish,  . 

Whooping-eoLigh, 

Whortleberries 

Wife,  how  to  treat, 

Wills, 

Windows,  washing, 

Windows,  to  color, 

Windsor  soap. 

Wine,  American  currant, 

Win-e,  claret,  to  improre, 

Wine,  apricot,    . 

Wine,  damson, 

Wine,  home-made, 

Wine,  moreilo  cherry,    , 

Wine,  orange. 

Wine,  raisin, 

Wine,  red  cherry, 

Wine,  red  currant, 

Wine,  spruce,     . 

Wine,  coloring. 


376 
245 
242 
242 
624 
37 
386 
61 

.  21 
104,  231 

.  247 
521 
083 
626 
394 
145 
345 
339 
343 
342 
339 
S43 
343 
344 
342 
344 
345 
341 


Wine,  fining  for, 

Wine  jelly,     .         .         .         , 

Wood,  to  preserve, 

Wood,  to  preserve  from  fire, 

Wood,  to  stain,  .         .     417, 

Wooden  stairs,  like  stone, 

Wool,  to  purify,     . 

Woolens  and  furs. 

Woolens,  to  wash, 

Wool  of  sheep,  .         ,  •       . 

Worm  pimple, 

Worms,       .... 

Worms  in  gardens. 

Worms  in  gravel  walks,     , 

Worsted,  &c.,  to  d3^e  black,    . 

Wounds,  to- pre  vent  mortifying. 

Wren,  usefulness  of,  . 

Write,  to,  secretly, 

Writing,  old. 

Writing,  to  take  out, 


340 
333 
308 
314 

422 
37 
18 
73 

289 
135 
229 
282 
2.82 
77 
93 
282 
382 
173 
173 


Yeast,  .         .        .         356,  593 

Yeast,  Turkish,  .        .        .     335 

Yellow,  .         .         .         .388 

Yellow  bird,        ....     643 
Young,  a  word  to  the    .        .         652 


THi'J  END. 


^*^ 


A 


-^.    =v/M\\y;  ^^--^^   ^.ai?^.-.  s-^^    . 


^^•n^,   V 


^     ,0^ 


V 


-^c 


^^•^^. 


^,*3.X>RN    ^  -A 


/*  V  -»*•  *   *    ' 


-'•-      %        "^         V^*         s..  -^ 


^^    JAN         73 

n^^^    N.  MANCHESTER. 
INDIANA 


